一座东北小城的防疫实录_嫩江。
A vaccination record of a small northeastern city _ Nenjiang.
//  加载监控代码。
/ / Load the monitoring code.
//解決IE8,IE9不支持console的问题。
/ / Resolution 8, IE9 does not support console.
搜狐首页。
Sohu Home Page
新闻。
Public information.
体育。
Sport.
汽车。
Automobiles.
房产。
Real estate.
旅游。
Tourism.
教育。
Education.
时尚。
Fashion.
科技。
Technology.
财经。
Finance.
娱乐。
Recreation.
更多。
More than that.
母婴。
Mother and child.
健康。
Health.
历史。
History.
军事。
Military.
美食。
Gourmet food.
文化。
Culture.
星座。
Constellation.
专题。
Topics.
游戏。
Play games.
搞笑。
It's funny.
动漫。
Animation.
宠物。
Pets.
登录。
Login.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
由内容质量、互动评论、分享传播等多维度分值决定，勋章级别越高(。
By content quality, interactive comments, sharing communication and other multi-dimensional points decided, the higher the medal level (.
)，代表其在平台内的综合表现越好。
), the better their overall performance within the platform.
。
.
5385文章。
5385 articles.
27亿总阅读。
2.7 billion readings.
查看TA的文章>。
View TA's article and gt;.
分享到。
Share it.
微信“扫一扫”分享到朋友圈。
Micromail "sweeps" and shares it with friends.
一座东北小城的防疫实录。
A vaccination record of a small northeastern city.
来源:中国新闻周刊。
Source: China News Weekly.
原标题：一座东北小城的防疫实录。
Original title: A vaccination record of a small northeastern city.
嫩江江畔 图/受访者供图。
Nenjiang River map / interviewee supply map.
嫩江市，一座因境内的母亲河嫩江而得名的小城，隶属黑龙江省黑河市的县级市，边陲中的边陲。
The city of Nenjiang, named after its mother river Nenjiang, belongs to the county-level city of Heilongjiang, the frontier of Heilongjiang.
这里距武汉2261公里，没有一列车直达，无论自驾还是坐火车中转，耗时都在30小时以上。
Wuhan 2261 kilometers away, there is no direct train access, whether by self-driving or train transit, the time-consuming more than 30 hours.
。
.
很多嫩江人由此相信新型冠状病毒到不了家门口。
Many people in Nenjiang believe that the new coronavirus will not reach their homes.
就算到了，“零下20多度的低温会把病毒冻死”“一天喝3顿酒的人也能凭酒精把病毒杀死”。
Even here, "a temperature of more than 20 degrees below zero can freeze to death" "A person who drinks three tons of alcohol a day can kill the virus with alcohol.
。
.
然而事与愿违。
But it didn't work.
2月12日，嫩江出现4例新冠肺炎确诊病例。
On February 12, there were 4 confirmed cases of new crown pneumonia in Nenjiang.
冷风热酒全没有用，两天后，确诊人数增至7例，嫩江成为黑河市疫情最重的辖区。
Cold and hot wine is useless, two days later, the number of confirmed cases increased to 7, Nenjiang has become the most affected jurisdiction in Hehe City.
。
.
据财新网2月21日统计数据，黑龙江省疫情呈现出重症率、死亡率双高的特点：重症72例，除湖北省外居全国首位；辖区内，绥化市死亡率（8.51%）和双鸭山市死亡率（5.76%）远超同期的武汉死亡率（3.7%）。
The epidemic in Heilongjiang Province is characterized by a high rate of serious illness and mortality, with 72 cases, the highest rate in China except Hubei province, and a much higher death rate in Suihua (8.51 percent) and Shuangyashan (5.76 percent) than in Wuhan during the same period (3.7 percent).
。
.
双高重压之下，46万余名嫩江人向外求援。
Under the pressure of double high, more than 460,000 Nenjiang people asked for help.
可疫情严重的地方太多，能顾及边陲小城的地方太少。
But the epidemic is serious in too many places, can take into account the furthest edge of the city is too few places.
声音被瞬间淹没，他们只能摸索着自救。
The sound was drowned in a moment, and they had to grope for help.
。
.
嫩江人的线上“自救”。
Nenjiang people on the line "self-help."
“嫩江一夜确认4例阳性，医院仅剩16只N95口罩，恳请各界人士伸出援手 。
"Nenjiang overnight confirmed 4 positive cases, the hospital left only 16 N95 masks, I beg people to lend a helping hand.
”。
"
2月12日下午，90后女孩辛紫发微博帮家乡征集物资。
Feb. 12 afternoon, 90-year-old girl Xin Zihao Weibo help her hometown collect supplies.
她的母亲在嫩江人民医院工作，那是当地收治新冠肺炎患者的唯一定点医院，最易交叉感染。
Her mother works at Nenjiang People's Hospital, the only designated local hospital for patients with pneumonia, which is the easiest to cross-infect.
。
.
微博上搜索嫩江的人一向屈指可数，这座由古道驿站发展而来的东北小城，不具备任何吸引全国目光的景物特色。
Few people have ever searched for Nenjiang on Weibo, a small northeastern city developed from the ancient road station, without any national attraction.
果然，辛紫的征集效果一般，仅有的25条评论中，没有一条物资线索。
Sure enough, Xin Zi's collection of general effect, only 25 comments, not a single material clues.
。
.
官方渠道的网上征集数据更差。
The collection of data online through official channels is even worse.
嫩江人民政府官方微博在同一天发布了征集医用防护口罩的倡议书，转赞评均未超过20。
On the same day, the official Weibo of the Nenjiang People's Government issued a petition calling for medical masks, which did not exceed 20.
主体为嫩江网络工作管理办公室的微信公众号“印象嫩江”，发布的倡议书阅读量125。
The main body for the Nenjiang Network Work Management Office of the micro-letter public "Impression Nenjiang," published by the initiative volume 125.
。
.
粉丝少无疑是官方号召力小的直接原因。
The lack of fans is undoubtedly the direct cause of the low official appeal.
每天花大把时间上网的在读研究生柴倍告诉中国新闻周刊，自己从未关注过家乡的任何官方账号。
Mr. Chai, a graduate student who spends a lot of time online each day, tells China News that he has never paid attention to any official account in his hometown.
“年轻人觉得（内容）无趣，年纪大的会看互相转发的文章，不会固定看某一个号。
"Young people find [content] boring, older people will read articles forwarded to each other, not fixed to look at a number.
” 。
"
展开全文。
Unfold the full text.
外乡人不搜，自己人不看，嫩江人的互联网发声显得有些无力。
Outsiders do not search, their own people do not see, Nenjiang people's Internet voice appears to be a little weak.
明明在2月11日，他们的朋友圈刷屏内容还是“嫩江支援湖北孝感5名医护人员”，没想到一天不到，援助者就变成了求助者。
Clearly on February 11, their circle of friends brush screen content or "Nenjiang support Hubei filial piety 5 medical personnel", did not expect a day, the donor turned into a helper.
。
.
改变这一切的是被认定为首例确诊病例的刘姓男子。
All this was changed by the man surnamed Liu, who was identified as the first confirmed case.
据嫩江市政府官网，这位水果蔬菜批发商曾在1月13日去齐齐哈尔第一医院陪护父亲，此外再没出过嫩江。
The fruit and vegetable wholesaler had gone to Qiqihar Hospital No. 1 on January 13 to accompany his father, according to the government website.
一同确诊的其他3名病例，分别是他的妻子、姐姐、姐夫。
The other three cases diagnosed together were his wife, sister and brother-in-law.
。
.
刘姓男子水果蔬菜批发店门前的对联上，贴着“不戴口罩，禁止入内”。
Liu family name men fruit and vegetables wholesale shop front couplet, affixed with "no mask, no entry".
图片来源：嫩江市人民政府官网。
Source: Official website of Nenjiang Municipal People's Government.
凭借4人的强烈关联性，市里陆续排查出数十名隔离人员。
Relying on the strong connection of four people, the city has been sorting out dozens of quarantine personnel.
好在，得益于省内企业和相关部门援助，嫩江人民医院及时补齐了所需医疗物资。
Fortunately, thanks to the assistance of enterprises and related departments in the province, the Nenjiang People's Hospital completed the required medical supplies in a timely manner.
。
.
嫩江人也进入了正式防疫状态。
Nenjiang people have also entered the official state of epidemic prevention.
他们复制社区委员的通知、保存短视频平台上的消毒小妙招，把内容转到家族微信群和朋友圈里。
They copy community committee notices, save sterilization tips on short video platforms, and transfer content to family micro-groups and friends.
线上寻求外界帮助不再重要，他们要做的只有一件事——告诉自己在乎的人，“现在嫩江不安全了”。
It's no longer important to ask for outside help online. All they have to do is tell the people they care about that "the river is not safe now."
。
.
线下防疫之困。
Prevention under the line.
2月5日，市内实施交通管制；2月12日，小区实施封闭管理；2月16日，外出返乡人员一律集中隔离……随着确诊人数上升，嫩江的防疫举措不断加强。
On February 5, traffic control was enforced in the city; on February 12, the small area was under closed control; on February 16, all those returning home were centralized and isolated.
。
.
但事实上，病毒之外，嫩江人还面临着许多“专属”防疫困境。
But in fact, in addition to the virus, Nenjiang people also face many "exclusive" epidemic prevention predicament.
。
.
首先是零下几十度的低温。
The first is a few tens of degrees below zero.
开窗通风只能坚持几分钟，步行买的菜会在路途中受冻。
Window ventilation can only last a few minutes, the food bought on foot will be frozen on the way.
柴倍用10分钟拎回家的黄瓜、西红柿，能吃的部分基本不超过1/3。
firewood took 10 minutes to bring home cucumbers, tomatoes, can eat the basic part of no more than 1 / 3.
。
.
其次是有限的医疗资源。
This is followed by limited medical resources.
嫩江市区内只有两家医院，非三甲，且缺乏防疫实战经验。
There are only two hospitals in Nenjiang City, not three A, and lack of experience in epidemic prevention.
需要就诊的病人往往陷入两难，去专攻新冠的人民医院有感染风险，选非定点的中医医院，又要在密集人流中排队等待。
Patients in need of treatment are often faced with the dilemma of going to the People's Hospital, which specializes in the new crown, choosing non-designated TCM hospitals and queuing up in a dense crowd of people.
。
.
有些病人甚至连选择的权利都没有。
Some patients do not even have the right to choose.
。
.
2月17日晚，肖栋接到了姑姑的求助电话。
On the night of February 17, Xiao Dong received a call from his aunt.
对方称自己刚从外地返乡不久，突发高血压，因为家里没人，需要他陪同乘救护车去医院。
The other side said he had just returned from the field, the outbreak of hypertension, because no one at home, need him to accompany the ambulance to the hospital.
。
.
“她打给人民医院，说急诊只收新冠患者。
"She called the People's Hospital and said the emergency department only admitted new patients.
打给中医医院，说返乡隔离期的人都要去人民医院。
Call the TCM Hospital and say that those who return home for isolation should go to the People's Hospital.
” 肖栋向中国新闻周刊回忆起当时的场景：“后来给社区和包保单位打了无数个电话，终于定到一辆救护车。
"Later, after making countless calls to the community and the insurance company, he booked an ambulance," Xiao told China News Weekly.
”。
"
嫩江医护人员驰援武汉 图/受访者供图。
Support Wuhan map / interviewee from Nenjiang medical staff.
可当他和妻子到了小区门口时，门卫坚决不让他们出门。
But when he and his wife arrived at the gate of the community, the doorman firmly refused to let them out.
他强调救护车要求必须有家属陪同，对方坚持见隔离人员有风险。
He stressed that ambulances were required to be accompanied by family members and that the other party insisted on the risks of seeing the quarantined.
双方争执不下，他只好找姑姑再走一遍“电话批复”流程。
Unable to resolve the dispute, he had to ask his aunt to go through the "telephone" process again.
。
.
防疫措施的变通是一道难题，尤其是对小城镇的执行者而言。
The adaptation of preventive measures is a challenge, especially for small town implementers.
没人想成为家乡的罪人，重任在肩，他们必须把不出错当做第一衡量标准。
No one wants to be a sinner in their hometown. They have to make no mistake as their first point of reference.
。
.
于是，肖栋的妻子安置好姑姑后回家，被再次拦在了小区外。
So Xiao Dong's wife arranged for her aunt to go home and was again stopped outside the community.
肖栋不好在深夜再麻烦社区，只得把妻子叫回医院住。
Xiao Dong bad in the late night trouble the community, had to call his wife back to live in hospital.
还曾有网友看到黑龙江省七台河市的铁路工作人员，站在绿皮车车厢门口“劝退”乘客：。
Also has seen Heilongjiang Province Qitaihe City railway staff, standing in the green leather car door "persuade" passengers:.
“你下车也是强制隔离，哪来的回哪去吧，对大家都好。
"You get out of the car in enforced isolation. Go back where you came from. It's good for everyone.
”。
"
放下心是需要过程的。
It takes process to set your mind at rest.
据黑龙江省卫健委，截至2月23日24时，黑龙江省共有新型冠状病毒肺炎确诊病例480例，在全国排名12位；共有累计死亡12例，全国排名第3，仅次于湖北省和河南省。
As of 2400 hours February 23, Heilongjiang Province had 480 confirmed cases of the new-type coronavirus pneumonia, ranking 12th in the country.
。
.
黑龙江省新冠重症肺炎专家组组长、哈尔滨医科大学附属第一医院院长于凯江曾于2月13日就高死亡率总结四个主因：死亡患者年龄偏大，多有复杂基础性疾病，因天气寒冷肺部疾病患病率较高，缺少必要的防范意识。
Four main reasons for the high mortality rate were summarized on February 13 by Yu Kaijiang, chairman of the group of experts on severe pneumonia in Xinguan, Heilongjiang province, who was affiliated with the first hospital of Harbin Medical University.
。
.
柴倍对第4条因素感触颇深。
Chai Bey was impressed by the fourth factor.
即便每天关注武汉疫情，他还是在过年前后多次和同学聚餐。
Even though he pays attention to Wuhan epidemic situation every day, he still has dinner with his classmates many times around the New Year.
大年初一上午，他两次邀请从湖南返乡的老同学“出来耍”，因为他始终认为，新冠肺炎会像SARS一样，绕过自己偏远的家乡。
On the morning of New Year's Day, he twice invited his former classmates from Hunan to "come out and play," because he had always believed that SARS would bypass his remote hometown like SARS.
。
.
确诊病例出现后，很多抱有同样心理的嫩江人感受到了加倍的恐惧。
After the diagnosis of the case, many people with the same mentality of the Nenjiang people felt double the fear.
他们开始质疑医院瞒报，打听小道消息，以求抢占些所谓的先机。
They began to question the hospital's secrecy, to seek information in order to seize some of the so-called opportunities.
。
.
钟越还记得母亲告诉自己“嫩江有30例确诊病例”时的复杂心情。
Zhong remembers her mother's mixed feelings when she told herself "there were 30 confirmed cases in Nenjiang."
在外省工作的她从未质疑过母亲发来的家乡疫情速报，可30例太夸张了，一听就是假的。
She has never questioned the provincial work of her mother sent the speed report home epidemic, but 30 cases are exaggerated, is false.
。
.
她告诉中国新闻周刊，母亲的消息是从自己一个好多年不联系的堂哥那里听来的。
She told China News that the news about her mother came from a cousin she had not been in touch with for years.
“说什么他同学就是确诊病例之一，他根本没上过几天学，哪来的同学。
"Said that his classmate is one of the confirmed cases, he did not go to school for a few days, where the classmate.
”。
"
黑河市人民政府网消息显示，截至2月23日，嫩江市共有6名患者痊愈出院。
As of February 23, a total of six patients in Nenjiang have been discharged from hospital, according to the website of Hehe Municipal People's Government.
在介绍最新出院的两名确诊患者情况时，文中写着“经过2次核酸检测阴性和市院际专家组会诊，确认痊愈”。
"After two negative nucleic acid tests and an inter-municipal expert group consultation, it was confirmed that the patient had recovered," the article said.
。
.
图片来源：黑河市人民政府官网。
Source: Official website of Hehe Municipal People's Government.
好消息陆续传来，看了太多真真假假疫情消息的嫩江人反而心里打鼓。
Good news continued to come, too many people who read the true and false information about the outbreak of the Nenjiang people heart drum.
这些天，种种从未见识过的防疫举措让他们坚信病毒威力无比，此刻突然说“治愈”，很难适应过来。
These days, unseen vaccination initiatives convinced them of the power of the virus, suddenly said "cure", difficult to adapt.
。
.
他们需要了解更多才能放心：以小城现有的医疗条件，真的能治愈吗？为什么这么快就可以出院？听说人民医院的医护人员都在宾馆统一居住，十几天没有回家。
They need to know more to feel confident: with the existing medical conditions in the small city, can really cure? Why so quickly can be discharged? Heard that people's hospitals are unified in the hotel residents, did not return home for a decade.
如果形势好转，他们会这么累吗？。
Will they be so tired if things get better?
人民医院一名工作人员向中国新闻周刊证实了医护的忙碌程度，“每天加班都到后半夜”。
A staff member of the People's Hospital confirmed to the China News Weekly how busy medical care is, "every day late at night overtime."
但关于疫情的其它问题，截至发稿前，医院仍未给出官方回复。
But on other questions about the outbreak, hospitals had yet to give an official response.
。
.
嫩江的母亲河仍在冰封之中，在家闲不住的柴倍曾去看过一次。
Nenjiang's mother river is still in the ice, at home idle firewood has been to see once.
江面盖着厚厚的白雪，他看不出冰有多厚。
Snow lay thick on the river. He could not see how thick the ice was.
。
.
不过每年开江的时间都差不多，他相信今年也一样。
But Kaijiang time every year is similar, he believes this year is the same.
江水从未停止流动，冰总会化开。
The river never stops flowing, and ice always melts away.
。
.
应受访者要求，文中人名均为化名。
At the request of the interviewee, the names are all aliases.
返回搜狐，查看更多 。
Go back to Sohu and see more.
责任编辑：。
Responsible Editor:.
$('#tipInfo').text('已实名回应');。
$(& apos; # tipInfo & apos;). text (& apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;
声明：该文观点仅代表作者本人，搜狐号系信息发布平台，搜狐仅提供信息存储空间服务。
Statement: This article only represents the author, Sohu is the information dissemination platform, Sohu only provides information storage space services.
。
.
嫩江。
Nenjiang.
嫩江人。
The people of Nenjiang.
肖栋。
Xiao Dong.
柴倍。
firewood.
黑龙江省。
Heilongjiang Province.
阅读 (12万)。
Reading (120,000).
我来说两句0人参与，0条评论。
Let me say two words about 0 people and zero comments.
来说两句吧……。
Say a word or two.
快速登录：。
Quick login:.
登录并发表。
Log in and publish.
评论不能为空！。
Comments cannot be empty.
搜狐“我来说两句” 用户公约。
Sohu "Let me talk about" user convention.
该评论已关闭！。
The review has been closed.
选择举报类型。
Select the type of report.
营销广告。
Marketing advertising.
淫秽色情。
Pornography.
恶意攻击谩骂。
Malicious attacks and insults.
其他。
Other.
提交。
Submitted.
取消。
Cancelled.
实名认证。
Authentication of real names.
小狐提醒您：。
Little fox reminds you:
应国家法律要求，使用互联网服务需完成实名验证。
Access to Internet services is subject to real-name verification, as required by national law.
为保障您账号的正常使用，请尽快完成手机验证，感谢您的理解和支持！。
To ensure the normal use of your account, please complete the mobile phone verification as soon as possible, thank you for your understanding and support.
确定。
Definitely.
推荐阅读。
Recommended reading.
推荐。
Recommendation.
研究报告。
Study reports.
企业社会责任。
Corporate social responsibility.
政策 / 监管。
Policy / regulation.
科普 / 创新。
Science popularization / innovation.
行业观察。
Industry Watch.
文明礼仪。
Civility.
公益作品。
Public works.
专家学者。
Experts and scholars.
政府官员。
Government officials.
明星名人。
Celebrity celebrities.
企业家。
Entrepreneurs.
正能量。
Positive energy.
刷新中..。
Update in..
您有未读新闻，点击查看。
You have unread news, click View.
中国已控制了“疫情”，但为何又在美国、日本、韩国、意大利兴起了呢？。
China has brought the epidemic under control, but why is it happening in the US, Japan, South Korea, and Italy?
南生今世说。
said Nansheng.
冯巩大10岁的姐姐亮相公益，72岁身体硬朗，家族遗传基因强大。
Feng Gong Da's 10-year-old sister, 72-year-old strong body, strong genetic family.
牛肉面没肉。
Cattle noodle has no meat.
今天 03:59。
Today is 03: 59.
德专家：全球大流行可能无法避免！已蔓延至40个海外国家（地区），韩国最多！。
German experts: Global pandemic may be inevitable! Has spread to 40 overseas countries (regions), South Korea the most!
健康时报。
Health Times.
【抗疫一线报告】武汉病例快速增加的势头已得到有效遏制。
The rapid increase in the number of cases in Wuhan has been effectively checked.
央视网。
CCTV net.
小说：董事长见到窝囊女婿，竟点头哈腰喊少爷，妻子和岳母都惊呆了。
Novels: the chairman saw the son-in-law, actually bow down to call young master, his wife and mother-in-law are stunned.
广告。
Advertising.
今天 4:58。
Today is 4: 58.
早财经丨武汉市委书记：再发现一例居家确诊病人，问责区委书记区长；鄂州单日新增确诊...。
Early finance and economics party secretary: another case of home diagnosis, accountability district party secretary; Huzhou newly confirmed...
每日经济新闻。
Daily economic news.
重要信号！全国多地下调新冠肺炎疫情应急响应等级。
Important signal! Many countries downgraded the emergency response level of the new crown pneumonia epidemic.
环球网。
World Wide Web.
2名患者因新冠肺炎自行隔离数天后痊愈，不要只知道戴口罩了。
Two patients recovered after several days of isolation due to new crown pneumonia. Don't just wear masks.
社会大事件。
Major social events.
国家卫健委：除湖北以外 全国新增确诊病例总数连续15天下降。
National Fitness and Health Commission: Except Hubei, the total number of newly diagnosed cases fell for 15 consecutive days.
中国青年网。
China Youth Network.
【抗疫一线报告】为节省10分钟 这对医护夫妻“以车为家”。
The first report of the epidemic aims to save the couple 10 minutes by making cars their homes.
央视网。
CCTV net.
临沂连续8天新增0！口罩还要戴多久？专家说清了！。
Linyi 8 days in a row to add 0! How long will the mask wear? Experts say clear.
临沂齐鲁网。
Linyi Qilu Net.
昨天 14:52。
Yesterday at 14: 52.
黑龙江上线龙江健康码 实现一次申报全省通行。
Heilongjiang upper line Longjiang health code to achieve a declaration of the province's passage.
央广网。
CCBA.
【抗疫一线报告】雷神山医院院长：武汉出现明显的“床等人”现象。
Anti-epidemic first-line report Lei Shenshan hospital director: Wuhan appears obvious "bed and so on" phenomenon.
央视网。
CCTV net.
全球风险级别提至最高级！新冠病毒源头尚不确定，应避免污名化!。
The global risk level has been raised to the highest level! The source of the new crown virus is uncertain. Avoid stigma.
民生周刊。
Minsheng Weekly.
今天 04:13。
Today is 04: 13.
哈尔滨应急建设防疫医院可先行使用土地九项措施保障项目建设。
Harbin Emergency construction epidemic prevention hospital can use land first nine measures to safeguard the construction of the project.
人民网。
People's Network.
黑龙江省坚决贯彻全国人大常委会决定依法严格加强野生动物管理。
The Standing Committee of the National People's Congress has decided to strictly enforce wildlife management.
东北网。
Northeast Network.
1990年贾文革特大奸杀案始末。
The extraordinary rape and murder of the Javengera in 1990.
史记帝。
Story the Emperor.
6000元都不敢要的翡翠原石，从设计到雕刻，成品价值瞬间翻了100倍！！。
6000 yuan do not dare to ask for emerald stone, from design to sculpture, the value of the finished product instantaneously increased 100 times!!
广告。
Advertising.
今天 4:58。
Today is 4: 58.
意大利新冠肺炎病例激增，十座城镇被迅速封锁，街道空无一人。
Italy has seen a surge in new cases of pneumonia, with 10 towns quickly sealed off and streets empty.
海外情报社OIA。
Overseas Intelligence Agency OIA.
重磅！全国第一例、第二例由遗体解剖获得的新冠肺炎病理今日送检。
Weight pound! The first case in the country, the second case obtained by autopsy of the new crown pneumonia sent for examination today.
羊城晚报。
Yangcheng Evening News.
四川松潘县小学生绘制手抄报助力疫情防控宣传。
Primary school students in Songpan County, Sichuan, draw handwritten help epidemic prevention and control propaganda.
发现松潘。
Songpan was found.
“95后”志愿者抗击疫情敢担当。
Volunteers dare to fight the epidemic after "95."
东北网。
Northeast Network.
广告。
Advertising.
今天 4:58。
Today is 4: 58.
琼海乡镇引导群众革除卫生陋习。
Qionghai township leading the masses to change sanitation habits.
文明海南。
Hainan civilization.
【917|感谢】战斗在抗“疫”一线的口腔人 --泰安市口腔医院护士长郭颖。
Thank you for fighting against the plague. & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
泰安交通广播电台。
Taian Transportation Radio Station.
黑龙江省推迟上半年高教自考新生注册报名。
Heilongjiang Province defers first half of college entrance examination registration.
人民网。
People's Network.
全市各地坚持“两手抓、两不误”积极做好抗疫情和复工复产工作。
All over the city, we will stick to the principle of "two hands and two hands," actively fighting the epidemic and resuming production.
牡丹江电视新闻台。
Mudanjiang TV News Station.
武汉殉职医生肖俊系接诊患者时感染，所在医院已有51名职工确诊。
Wuhan martyred doctor Xiao Junyi patients when the infection, the hospital has been confirmed by 51 staff.
南方都市报。
Southern Metropolis Daily.
剧情反转？患者出院19天后复查转阳，邻居曾办欢迎仪式…。
Reverse plot? The patient was discharged from hospital 19 days after the re-examination of the sun, neighbors have hosted a welcome ceremony...
深圳卫视。
Shenzhen Satellite TV.
昨天 15:01。
Yesterday at 15: 01.
那个退休厅官，被处分了。
The retired registrar was disciplined.
观察者网。
Network of Observers.
关键时候顶上去 侨界医务工作者奋战一线。
Key time for overseas medical workers to fight the front line.
中国新闻网。
China News Network.
见字如面④ | “重症病区”里的纸短情长！。
See with face & # 44; & # 45; Short-term sentiment at & quot; Severe & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
新闻夜航。
News Night Flight.
昨天 17:16。
Yesterday at 17: 16.
青海省发挥中藏医药独特优势开展新冠肺炎综合防治。
Qinghai Province to play the unique advantages of Chinese and Tibetan medicine to develop integrated prevention and treatment.
人民网。
People's Network.
铁路“党员突击队”助力垦区赶春耕。
Railway "Party Commando" to help reclaim land spring ploughing.
经济日报。
Economic Daily.
新冠肺炎 | 新型冠状病毒科普知识：关于新冠肺炎的45个真相。
New Coronavirus Science: 45 Facts About Newly Coronavirus.
搜狐健康。
Sohu Health.
抗疫作品征集选登 | “抗击新冠肺炎，北理珠人一起战役”大视频正式发布。
"Fight New Crown Pneumonia: The Battle of the Beizhu People," a big video was released.
京涛汇。
Jingtao Formation.
文水县卫体局：健身礼包暖人心同舟共济战疫情。
Wenshui County Health Bureau: Fitness gift package warm people together in the boat battle epidemic.
文水电视台。
Wenshui TV station.
巴州区四中扎实做好校园疫情防控工作。
Four solid Bazhou District to do a good job of school disease prevention and control.
巴中传媒网。
China-Pakistan Media Network.
我们有信心，有能力，战胜疫情!。
We have the confidence and the ability to defeat the epidemic.
942安阳新闻广播。
942 Anyang News Radio.
关注！关于新冠肺炎的45个真相。
Attention! Forty-five truths about new crown pneumonia.
黄梅广播电视台。
Huangmei Radio and Television.
关于新冠肺炎，中国-世界卫生组织联合专家考察组的N个最新论断。
On the New Crown Pneumonia, the N Recent Judgment of the Joint Expert Team of China and WHO.
国际在线。
International Online.
又有两名日本政府官员确诊新冠肺炎 曾在"钻石公主号"执行任务。
Two other Japanese government officials have confirmed that AT & quot; Princess Diamond & quot; performed service at & quot; & quot;
环球网。
World Wide Web.
一次申报，全省通行！黑龙江启用“龙江健康码”。
A declaration, the province's access! Heilongjiang launched "Longjiang Health Code."
龙江本地服务。
Longjiang local service.
新冠肺炎 | 疫情发生后睡眠差，抵触网上交流怎么办？心理专家教你这样调解。
What about poor sleep and resistance to online communication after AT & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Psychologists teach you to do so.
搜狐健康。
Sohu Health.
当当网员工确诊新冠肺炎被约谈 俞渝一下子成众矢之的。
Yu Yu was singled out as the target of an interview when the internet worker diagnosed pneumonia.
运营商财经网。
Operator Financial Network.
北京年龄最小新冠肺炎患者治愈出院。
Beijing's youngest new crown pneumonia patients were cured and discharged.
北青网。
North Youth Network.
顾植山：从五运六气解析新冠肺炎及其治疗。
Gu Zhishan: Analysis of New Crown Pneumonia and Its Treatment from Wuyun Liuqi.
辅仁书院。
Fu Yan College.
黑龙江：企业复工要建立疫情防控内部责任机制和应急预案。
Heilongjiang: enterprises to re-establish the disease prevention and control internal responsibility mechanism and emergency plan.
央广网。
CCBA.
黑龙江省20家银行已受理个贷延还申请近2万笔。
Twenty banks in Heilongjiang Province have accepted nearly 20,000 applications for individual loans.
人民网。
People's Network.
武汉王奶奶的最后一个春节。
The last Spring Festival of wuhan wang grandma.
荆楚视野。
Jing Chu Vision.
昨天 16:00。
Yesterday at 16: 00.
山西省又有6例新冠肺炎患者治愈出院。
Six patients with Newly Coronary Pneumonia were successfully discharged from Shanxi Province.
人民网。
People's Network.
支援湖北护士的4岁孩子意外烧伤后：放心，有我们在替你守护。
Support Hubei nurse after the accident burns 4-year-old child: rest assured, we have to guard for you.
上游新闻。
Upstream news.
今天 04:39。
Today is 04: 39.
意大利死亡病例增至7起，日韩累计确诊均超800人 | 国际疫情观察（2月25日）。
The number of deaths in Italy rose to seven, with all cases diagnosed in Japan and South Korea exceeding 800 and # 124; International Outbreak Watch (25 February).
界面新闻。
Interface news.
甘肃新冠肺炎分层治疗模式初获成功。
The stratified treatment model of new crown pneumonia in Gansu Province was successful.
人民网。
People's Network.
日本新冠肺炎病例累计确诊850例：多地出现无法确认感染路径病例。
Cumulatively, 850 cases of Newly Coronary Pneumonia were diagnosed in Japan: many cases could not be confirmed.
金融界。
The financial world.
坚守在重症病房的日日夜夜。
Day and night in the intensive care unit.
光明网。
Hanukkah.
今天 04:28。
Today is 04: 28.
大兴安岭韩家园林业局：疫情防控“隔离人家”的快乐生活。
Daxing An Ling Korea Home Forest Bureau: epidemic prevention and control of "isolated people" happy life.
黑龙江旅游食品网。
Heilongjiang Travel Food Network.
今天 04:28。
Today is 04: 28.
暖！贴心服务感动滞兴外籍人士。
Warm! Heartfelt service moved foreign nationals.
兴宁广播电视。
Xingning Radio and Television.
今天 03:47。
Today is 03: 47.
每月1815元！这笔钱手机上就能申领！快看你符合条件吗？。
1815 yuan per month! This money can be claimed on the mobile phone! See you qualified?
上海本地宝。
Shanghai local treasure.
今天 03:59。
Today is 03: 59.
平凡司机驱车2600公里，不惧危险与疲惫送物资，获正能量万元奖金。
Ordinary drivers driving 2,600 kilometers, not afraid of danger and fatigue to deliver goods, received a positive energy million yuan bonus.
中国青年网。
China Youth Network.
停课不停学丨初中组：《背影》《角的平分线的性质》。
Classes are suspended from the class into the middle school group: "The Nature of the Partition Line of the Angle."
永定新闻网。
Yongding News Network.
今天 04:07。
Today is 04: 07.
国家卫健委：未发现新冠肺炎出院患者传染他人现象。
National Fitness Commission: No cases of nosocomial pneumonia were found to spread from hospital.
福建武平网。
Fujian Wuping Network.
今天 02:39。
Today is 02: 39.
公益人心心相惜！袁立力挺韩红，捐赠50台制氧机、75台呼吸机。
Yuan LiLi supported Han Hong, donating 50 oxygen machines and 75 ventilators.
真是不乖。
It's not good.
今天 03:59。
Today is 03: 59.
新型冠状病毒截止到今天究竟确诊多少人了？。
How many people have been diagnosed with the new coronavirus?
苦行僧。
Dervishes.
刚发布！哈尔滨局部封城，主城区颁汽车禁行令。
Harbin partial closure of the city, the main city issued a ban on cars.
生活消息。
Life news.
疫情下的10个泪目瞬间：谢谢你们，用平凡力量，守护我们心中的光亮。
Ten tears under the epidemic: Thank you, with ordinary power, to guard the light in our hearts.
国际在线。
International Online.
昨天 13:40。
Yesterday at 13: 40.
浙江新冠肺炎疫苗研制取得重要进展：重组蛋白疫苗经第一批预实验小鼠测试，已产生抗体。
Important progress has been made in the development of the new crown pneumonia vaccine in Zhejiang: the recombinant protein vaccine was tested in the first batch of pre-tested mice and produced antibodies.
浙医在线。
Zhejiang Medicine Online.
出门后回家，身上哪里最需要清洁消毒？。
Go home after going out, where does the body need to clean disinfect most?
甘肃终点线体育。
Finish line sports in Gansu.
今天 02:15。
Today is 02: 15.
邻居曾办欢迎仪式！确诊患者出院19天后转阳，65人被隔离。
Neighbors held a welcoming ceremony! 19 days after the diagnosis was discharged, 65 people were quarantined.
广东公共频道DV现场。
Guangdong public channel DV scene.
昨天 14:58。
Yesterday at 14: 58.
2月23日疫情丨海外扩散！韩国上调预警至最高；意大利多个城市“封城”；新加坡现同时...。
February 23: The epidemic spreads overseas! South Korea raises alert to its highest level; Italian cities are "closed"; Singapore is simultaneously...
格隆汇财经早餐。
Grunt Business Breakfast.
江铃汽车相信 等待我们的终将是一个温暖的春天。
Jiangling Automobile believes that we will be waiting for a warm spring.
爱车加油站。
Love the gas station.
昨天 16:17。
Yesterday at 16: 17.
快讯！1名蒙古国新冠肺炎男性患者在韩国死亡。
A Mongolian man with Newly Corollary Pneumonia died in South Korea.
环球网。
World Wide Web.
农民除了打工、种地之外，还有3个小生意不妨看看，养家没问题。
In addition to working, farming, there are three small businesses to look at, supporting the family is no problem.
笔观三农。
Three Peasantry.
昨天 14:26。
Yesterday at 14: 26.
你体内的气体已超标！一张表告诉你怎么吃不“胀气”。
The gas in your body is out of control! A watch tells you how to eat gas.
超级点子王。
Super Idea King.
今天 04:00。
Today at 04: 00.
科学防护 | 车轱辘、快递需要消毒吗？哪些消毒反倒有害？一次说清！。
Do you need to disinfect your car or express? What disinfection is harmful? One time!
长乐未央。
Everglades.
昨天 15:17。
Yesterday at 15: 17.
这个发达国家疫情突变，3天之间发生了什么，“经济引擎”将有“熄火”风险。
This developed country mutates, what happens in 3 days, "economic engine" will have "extinguish" risk.
每日经济新闻。
Daily economic news.
新华社|重庆近6000名志愿者精准守护一线医务人员家庭。
Nearly 6,000 volunteers in Chongqing accurately guarded the homes of front-line medical personnel.
上游新闻。
Upstream news.
昨天 14:08。
Yesterday at 14: 08.
全国中小学生（幼儿）“新冠肺炎疫情防控”专题教育活动视频要点。
Video highlights of educational activities on "Prevention and Control of New Crown Pneumonia" in primary and middle school students (infants) nationwide.
教育新聚焦。
New focus on education.
疫情下的10个泪目瞬间：谢谢你们，用平凡力量，守护我们心中的光亮。
Ten tears under the epidemic: Thank you, with ordinary power, to guard the light in our hearts.
光明网。
Hanukkah.
昨天 13:38。
Yesterday at 13: 38.
全国各省市中小学开学时间表。
Timetable for opening primary and secondary schools.
聚焦齐鲁。
Focus on Zilu.
教育部延迟开学时间，30省积极响应延迟开学，这两省延至3月1日。
The Ministry of Education delayed the start of the school year and 30 provinces responded positively to the delay, which was delayed until 1 March.
领学网资讯人。
Academic Network Information Man.
温州市本级新冠肺炎疫情接收捐赠情况公示（第九期）。
The status of acceptance donation of Wenzhou New Crown Pneumonia (9th issue) was announced.
温州发布。
Wenzhou release.
昨天 13:30。
Yesterday at 13: 30.
为前线捐献物资 为老人运送蔬菜 共同传递江铃精神。
Donation of materials for the front line to transport vegetables for the elderly to jointly convey the spirit of Jiangling.
汽车科技达人。
Automobile technology is smart.
昨天 16:21。
Yesterday at 16: 21.
加载更多。
Load more.
已经到底了。
It's over.
小狐找不到新闻了，请下拉重试吧～～。
Fox can not find the news, please pull down and try again.
热门图集。
Hot atlas.
【抗疫一线报告】武汉病例快速增加的势头已得到有效遏制。
The rapid increase in the number of cases in Wuhan has been effectively checked.
中国已控制了“疫情”，但为何又在美国、日本、韩国、意大利兴起了呢？。
China has brought the epidemic under control, but why is it happening in the US, Japan, South Korea, and Italy?
德专家：全球大流行可能无法避免！已蔓延至40个海外国家（地区），韩国最多！。
German experts: Global pandemic may be inevitable! Has spread to 40 overseas countries (regions), South Korea the most!
【抗疫一线报告】武汉病例快速增加的势头已得到有效遏制。
The rapid increase in the number of cases in Wuhan has been effectively checked.
中国已控制了“疫情”，但为何又在美国、日本、韩国、意大利兴起了呢？。
China has brought the epidemic under control, but why is it happening in the US, Japan, South Korea, and Italy?
【抗疫一线报告】为节省10分钟 这对医护夫...。
First-line report on the epidemic to save 10 minutes for the paramedic...
钟南山对这个省致敬，陈一新、应勇再三强...。
Zhong Nan Shan to this province salute, Chen Xin, Yingyong repeatedly strong...
死亡率重症率双高，省委书记：加大问责力...。
Mortality rate is high, provincial party secretary: increase accountability...
漫威最美亚洲脸，一点都不比汪可盈差。
Manway is the most beautiful Asian face, no less than Wang Keying.
24小时热文。
24-hour heat.
女儿游泳意外怀孕，家长向游泳馆索赔，遭到了拒绝：有...。
Daughter swimming accident pregnancy, parents to the swimming pool claim, was rejected: Yes...
24万 阅读。
240,000 readings.
搜狐新社交产品内测倒计时，仅剩128个名额，速戳。
Sohu new social product inside the measurement countdown, only 128 places left, quick stamp.
140万 阅读。
1.4 million readings.
美高官曝出重大预言，引全球民众沸腾，特朗普迎来耻辱...。
Trump has been disgraced by the revelations of high-ranking US officials who have raised eyebrows around the world...
24万 阅读。
240,000 readings.
第一个停飞我国的国家，如今被全欧洲隔绝，全程都处在...。
The first country to be grounded in our country, now cut off from the whole of Europe, was...
71万 阅读。
710,000 readings.
征集 | 我们采访了27位海外及港澳台同胞，聊了聊他们...。
We interviewed 27 of our overseas, Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan compatriots and talked about them...
273 阅读。
273 Read.
搜狐号推荐。
Sohu recommended.
搜狐公益。
Sohu pro bono.
搜狐公益为中国最大网络公益平台，致力于传播公益理念、倡导公益行为、培养...。
Sohu public welfare is China's largest network public welfare platform, dedicated to spreading the concept of public welfare, advocating public welfare behavior, training...
众托帮。
Crowds of trust.
众托帮是国内网络互助先行者。
Crowd Trust is the pioneer of domestic network mutual help.
注册资本金过亿元，平稳运营超过1100天。
With a registered capital of over $100 million, it has been operating smoothly for more than 1,100 days.
汇聚...。
Convergence...
爱在赣鄱。
Love is the sound of Jiangxi.
主要发现与挖掘身边的公益，为社会增加一些真人真事的正能量。
Mainly find and dig around the public welfare, for the community to add some real life positive energy.
。
.
宣讲家网。
Publisher's Network.
宣讲家网站是北京市委宣传部主管、北京市委讲师团主办的第一家专业理论网站...。
The preacher's website is the first professional theoretical website sponsored by the propaganda department of Beijing Municipal Committee and sponsored by the Beijing Municipal Party Committee...
社工客。
Social workers.
“社工客”是一个立足于“社工以及公益人士”社群的自媒体，主要展现这个群...。
"Social worker" is a self-media based on the "social worker and public interest" community, which mainly shows this group...
联系我们。
Contact us.
返回首页。
Back to front page.
用户反馈。
User feedback.
免费获取。
Free access.
今日搜狐热点。
Sohu hot spot today.
6秒后。
In six seconds.
进入搜狐首页。
Go to Sohu Home.
今日推荐。
Recommended today.
进入搜狐首页。
Go to Sohu Home.
意见反馈。
Feedback from Parties.
账号密码登录。
Account number password login.
手机动态码登录。
Mobile phone dynamic code login.
请输入正确的登录账号或密码。
Please enter the correct login account or password.
下次自动登录找回密码。
Automatic login to retrieve the password next time.
注册。
Registration.
获取验证码。
Get the authentication code.
下次自动登录。
Automatic login next time.
找回密码。
Retrieve the password.
注册。
Registration.
安全提示。
Safety Tips.
为保证您的账户安全，建议您绑定手机号码。
To keep your account secure, it is recommended that you bind your mobile phone number.
请输入正确的登录账号或密码。
Please enter the correct login account or password.
获取动态码。
Gets the dynamic code.
收不到短信验证码？点击获取 语音验证码。
Unable to receive SMS authentication code? Click to get a voice authentication code.
安全提示。
Safety Tips.
系统出于安全考虑，在点击“发送语音验证码”后，您将会收到一条来自950开头号码的语音验证码，请注意接听。
For security reasons, you will receive a voice authentication code from the 950's opening number after clicking "Send Voice Authentication Code."
。
.
暂不发送发送语音验证码。
Temporarily does not send the voice authentication code.
手机注册。
Mobile phone registration.
邮箱注册。
Mailbox registration.
获取验证码。
Get the authentication code.
同意《搜狐服务协议》。
Agree to Sohu Service Agreement.
使用已有账号登录。
Login with an existing account.
try{console.log("执行成功")。
try {console.log; performed successfully and quot;)
title: "一座东北小城的防疫实录",。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; a small northeastern city.
//adData_fd用于abtest。
/ / adData _ fd for abtest.
'<span><em class="icon err-js-icon"></em>JS加载错误，请重新加载。
& amp; apos; & ltd; span & gt; em class = & quot; icon err-js-icon & quot; & gt; & lt; / em & gt; JS loading error, please reload.
</span>' +。
Ritual; / span & gt; & apos; +.
'><em class="icon-cached"></em>刷新</a></div>';。
& apos; & gt; em class = 'class5' >; icon-cached & quot; & gt; & gt; / em & gt; Refresh & lt; / a & gt; a & ltd; / div & gt; & apos;;
console.error("发生错误",e);。
Console. error; & quot; & quot; e);
