复盘疫情决策：医生、疾控、科研、行政分别做了什么_武汉。
Duplicate epidemic situation decision-making: doctor, disease control, scientific research, administration did respectively what _ Wuhan.
//  加载监控代码。
/ / Load the monitoring code.
//解決IE8,IE9不支持console的问题。
/ / Resolution 8, IE9 does not support console.
搜狐首页。
Sohu Home Page
新闻。
Public information.
体育。
Sport.
汽车。
Automobiles.
房产。
Real estate.
旅游。
Tourism.
教育。
Education.
时尚。
Fashion.
科技。
Technology.
财经。
Finance.
娱乐。
Recreation.
更多。
More than that.
母婴。
Mother and child.
健康。
Health.
历史。
History.
军事。
Military.
美食。
Gourmet food.
文化。
Culture.
星座。
Constellation.
专题。
Topics.
游戏。
Play games.
搞笑。
It's funny.
动漫。
Animation.
宠物。
Pets.
登录。
Login.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
由内容质量、互动评论、分享传播等多维度分值决定，勋章级别越高(。
By content quality, interactive comments, sharing communication and other multi-dimensional points decided, the higher the medal level (.
)，代表其在平台内的综合表现越好。
), the better their overall performance within the platform.
。
.
5385文章。
5385 articles.
27亿总阅读。
2.7 billion readings.
查看TA的文章>。
View TA's article and gt;.
分享到。
Share it.
微信“扫一扫”分享到朋友圈。
Micromail "sweeps" and shares it with friends.
复盘疫情决策：医生、疾控、科研、行政分别做了什么。
Duplicate epidemic situation decision-making: doctor, disease control, scientific research, administration have done separately.
来源:中国新闻周刊。
Source: China News Weekly.
原标题：复盘疫情决策：医生、疾控、科研、行政分别做了什么。
Original title: Duplicate epidemic decision-making: doctors, disease control, scientific research, administration have done separately.
2月6日下午，一辆运送医疗设备和工作人员的车辆抵达武汉火神山医院。
On the afternoon of 6 February, a vehicle carrying medical equipment and staff arrived at Wuhan Huoshen Mountain Hospital.
摄影/长江日报 陈卓。
Photography / Changjiang Daily Chen Zhuo.
本刊记者/彭丹妮 李想俣。
Our correspondent / Penny Lee Minamata.
1月8日晚，作为中国疾病预防控制中心（CDC）首席流行病学家，曾光突然接到国家卫健委通知，要求他尽快去一趟武汉。
On the night of Jan. 8, Zeng Guang, chief epidemiologist at the China Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), was suddenly notified by the State Health Commission that he should go to Wuhan as soon as possible.
次日早上7点，他就坐上了从北京飞往武汉的飞机。
The next morning at 7 a.m., he got on a plane from Beijing to Wuhan.
。
.
因在武汉只待了一天，曾光没有参与现场调查。
Zeng did not participate in the on-site investigation because he only spent one day in Wuhan.
在地方给包括他在内的专家的汇报中，他听到的是武汉市已经隔离了多少人，密切接触者中没有出现感染者，感染者病症不是太重，和季节性流感差不多……“我们得到的都是这样的信息。
In local reports to experts, including him, he heard how many people had been quarantined in Wuhan, that there were no infected people in close contact, that the infected were not seriously ill, and that the disease was about the same as the seasonal flu... "
”在向《中国新闻周刊》回忆起那次经历时，曾光拍着桌子问，“那时我哪知道还有个李文亮，还有张继先？” 。
Recalling the experience to China News Weekly, Zeng clapped his hands on the table and asked, "How did I know there was still a Liang Li and Zhang Jian?"
即便是基于这样的信息，出于SARS时期的经验，曾光还是建议当地要把感染者完全隔离，疑似病人不但要收治进医院，还要一人一个单间，密切接触者要集中隔离，这是防控要点。
Even on the basis of this information, and based on the experience of the SARS period, Zeng Guang recommended complete isolation of the infected persons locally. Suspected patients should be admitted not only to hospitals, but also to a single room, with close contacts to be concentrated in isolation, which is the main point of control.
但在当时，武汉并没有采纳这样的措施。
But at the time, Wuhan did not adopt such measures.
。
.
距曾光的武汉之行一个半月之后，新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情已呈蔓延全球之势。
A month and a half after Zeng Guang's visit to Wuhan, the new coronavirus pneumonia has assumed global proportions.
。
.
2月23日，中科院院士、上海交通大学医学院院长陈国强、副院长江帆等人在《中国科学：生命科学》杂志发表了评述文章《新型冠状病毒感染疫情下的思考》。
On February 23, the academician of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Chen Guoqiang, Dean of the School of Medicine of Shanghai Jiaotong University and Vice-President Changjiang Fan, published a commentary on "Thinking under the New Coronavirus Infection Epidemic" in the journal Chinese Science: Life Sciences.
文章指出，值得肯定的是, 此次疫情发生后, 科技工作者快速分离出新型冠状病毒，并公布其基因序列，研发诊断试剂盒, 并及时向世界公布，获得了包括WHO在内的国内外各方的好评。
After the outbreak, scientists and scientists quickly isolated the coronavirus and released its gene sequence, developed a diagnostic kit, and released it to the world in a timely manner, winning acclaim from all over the world, including the World Health Organization.
在疫情关键时期， 国家和各级地方政府有力应对，并及时听取专家意见，果断采取措施，防止疫情输入、扩散和传播。
During the critical period of the epidemic, the state and local governments at all levels responded robustly and took timely expert advice to take decisive measures to prevent the importation, spread and spread of the epidemic.
但是，我们必须反思疫情初期的应对策略。
But we must rethink our response strategy in the early stages of the epidemic.
。
.
曾光说，流行病学是疾病预防控制的基本专业支持，它主要包括疾病监测、疫情报告、现场调查，以及公共卫生决策。
Zeng Guang said that epidemiology is the basic professional support for disease prevention and control, which mainly includes disease surveillance, epidemic reporting, on-site investigation, and public health decision-making.
曾光把流行病学看作一门“情报工作”。
Zeng Guang regarded epidemiology as an "intelligence work."
但现在，他感到专业人士与决策者之间的沟通渠道还不通畅，公共卫生信息难以转化为及时、有效的决策。
Now, however, he feels that the channels of communication between professionals and policymakers are not well developed and that public health information is difficult to translate into timely and effective decision-making.
多位专家指出，回溯此次疫情，尤其是早期阶段，在监测、锁定传染源等环节，在具体操作层面上还有许多可提升的空间。
Experts pointed out that retrospective epidemic, especially in the early stages, in monitoring, locking the source of infection, there is a lot of room for improvement at the operational level.
。
.
“首先要觉察到异样”。
"The first thing to notice is the difference."
在曾光去武汉的时候，国家卫健委还派出了第二批专家组于1月8日抵汉，在当地调查指导防疫工作，直到1月15日。
While Zeng traveled to Wuhan, the State Health Commission sent a second group of experts to Han on January 8 to conduct local investigations and guide the epidemic prevention work until January 15.
一位专家组成员向《中国新闻周刊》透露说，当时，当地提供给专家组的资料有限，很难判断出病毒有没有人传人的能力。
One expert group member revealed to China News Weekly that, at that time, the limited information available locally to the Group made it difficult to determine whether the virus had a human-to-human capacity.
他回忆说，1月11日，湖北省与武汉市两级卫健委在与国家卫健委专家组召开会议时，还曾提供了一份人数有100多人的疑似病例名单。
He recalled that on January 11, the Hubei and Wuhan municipal health committees had provided a list of more than 100 suspected cases at a meeting with the National Health and Wellness Commission expert group.
专家组曾一致建议，两级卫健委应向社会公布疑似病例情况。
The Expert Group had unanimously recommended that the two levels of CHRP should disclose suspected cases to the community.
但在12日，武汉市卫健委的通报只重复了前日通报过的41例确诊病例，并未公布疑似病例情况。
However, on the 12th, Wuhan city health committee of the circular only repeated the day before the 41 confirmed cases notified, not the disclosure of suspected cases.
对此，他们也很意外。
They, too, were surprised.
。
.
展开全文。
Unfold the full text.
临床医生被感染，是疾病人传人的敏感信号。
The infection of a clinician is a sensitive signal from person to person.
据后来的媒体报道，1月1日至11日，武汉已有7名医务人员感染。
According to subsequent media reports, seven medical personnel were infected in Wuhan between January 1 and 11.
其中，武汉同济医院医生陆俊于1月7日就确诊了新冠肺炎，在1月17日之前，一直在本院治疗。
Among them, Wuhan Tongji Hospital doctor Lu Junji confirmed the new crown pneumonia on January 7, until January 17, has been treated at the hospital.
上述专家直言，当时，他们也走访了武汉同济，却没有人向他们提及该院医务人员的感染情况。
At the time, they visited Wuhan Tongji, but no one mentioned the infection of the hospital's medical staff.
。
.
中科院院士陈国强等人撰文指出，此次疫情发生早期, 临床医生从个案诊治中已经感觉到问题的严重性及人传人的可能性，但是却没有一支专业高效的公共卫生队伍能够在第一时间深入现场，进行细致、缜密的流行病学调查和及时确诊问题。
Chen Guoqiang, an academician of the Chinese Academy of Sciences and others, wrote that in the early stages of the outbreak, clinicians had sensed the seriousness of the problem and the possibility of human-to-human transmission from case to case.
。
.
很多人都在质疑“非典”之后建立的覆盖全国的传染病直报系统为何没有发挥作用。
Many are questioning why the post-SARS-era system of direct reporting of infectious diseases, which covers the entire country, has not worked.
对此，江苏省预防医学会会长、原江苏省疾控中心主任、省卫生厅副厅长汪华向《中国新闻周刊》指出，“实际上，这个直报系统并不负责发现新发传染病。
"In fact, this direct reporting system is not responsible for detecting new infectious diseases," Wang Hua, president of Jiangsu Preventive Medicine Society and former director of the Jiangsu CDC and vice-minister of provincial health department, told China News Weekly.
” 。
"
针对新发传染病，2004年12月，中国对《传染病防治法》进行了修订，在需要上报的传染病范围一项，增加了“或者发现其他传染病暴发、流行以及突发原因不明的传染病”内容。
For newly emerging infectious diseases, in December 2004, China amended the Law on the Prevention and Treatment of Infectious Diseases to include the words "or detecting outbreaks of other infectious diseases, epidemics and infectious diseases of unknown cause" in the list of infectious diseases to be reported.
新发传染病可以通过直报系统下的子系统“突发公共卫生事件报告系统”上报。
Emerging infectious diseases can be reported through the public health emergency reporting system, a subsystem under the Direct Reporting System.
但问题是只有首先定义了什么样的情况算公共卫生事件，才能上报。
But the problem is that it is only by first defining what constitutes a public health event that one can report.
对此，北京大学公共卫生学院教授、国家CDC首任主任李立明指出，修订后的《传染病防治法》对这些新发传染病只有一句话，“就是说要报告，但是怎么报告没有明确的规定。
Li Liming, a professor at the Peking University School of Public Health and the first director of the National CDC, noted that the revised Infectious Diseases Act contained only one sentence for these newly emerging infectious diseases.
”所以，1月20日国家规定新冠病毒肺炎为“乙类传染病，按甲类管理”之后，每天就开始报告了。
So, on January 20, the state designated pneumonia as a "Class B infectious disease, managed according to category A," and began reporting it every day.
李立明说，“在这之前，没有定性它是一个什么病、危害性如何，需要有专家评估与卫生行政部门决策的过程。
"Prior to this, it was not clear what the disease was and what the harm was, and an expert evaluation of the decision-making process with the health administration was required."
”而根据国家CDC官网消息，传染病网络直报系统对新冠肺炎作为法定传染病的动态监测功能是2020年1月24日才上线的。
And, according to the National CDC, the Communicable Disease Network Direct Reporting System's dynamic surveillance of new crown pneumonia as a statutory infectious disease only went online on January 24, 2020.
。
.
陈国强等人指出，早在2011年，中国CDC与美国CDC相关专家就已经撰文，在总结 2003年SARS以来中国防控新发传染病能力建设取得的成绩的同时，更提出了中国在新发传染病侦测能力上的显著差距。
Chen and others point out that as early as 2011, China's CDC and US CDC experts had already written about China's achievements in capacity-building for the prevention and control of new infectious diseases since SARS in 2003.
。
.
实际上，目前，在中国的疾控体系内，能监测传染病的并非只有一个直报系统。
In fact, there is more than one direct reporting system that can detect infectious diseases within China's disease control system.
原卫生部从2004年起，要求在全国范围内开展不明原因肺炎（PUE）病例监测，这是一个单独的系统，不是由法律规定的。
Since 2004, the former Ministry of Health has required nationwide surveillance of cases of unspecified pneumonia (PUE), a separate system that is not provided for by law.
PUE与传染病直报系统相联，也就是说，医生可以通过PUE在直报系统中上报不明原因肺炎病例。
PUE is linked to the Communicable Diseases Watch system, which means that doctors can report cases of unexplained pneumonia through the PUE system.
由CDC副主任冯子健指导、2017年发表的一篇硕士毕业论文《不明原因肺炎监测系统评价》介绍说，PUE是一个依赖医疗机构临床医生上报病例的被动监测系统，临床医生对该监测系统的接受程度，直接影响病例报告质量和效率。
PUE is a passive surveillance system that relies on medical clinicians to report cases, and clinicians' acceptance of the surveillance system has a direct impact on the quality and efficiency of case reporting, according to a Master's thesis published in 2017 and directed by CDC Deputy Director Feng Zijian.
2013年，苏皖等地暴发人感染禽流感H7N9疫情初期，绝大多数病例就是通过PUE发现的。
In 2013, Jiangsu and Anhui outbreak of human avian influenza H7N9 epidemic in the early stage, the vast majority of cases were found through PUE.
然而，该论文指出，目前医院内有大量符合PUE定义的病例，但上报率低。
However, the paper notes that there are currently a large number of PUE-defined cases in hospitals, but that reporting rates are low.
。
.
根据国家CDC、湖北省CDC等机构1月29日发表在《新英格兰医学杂志》上的文章，2019年12月29日，武汉当地医院通过PUE监测系统，发现了最早报告的4个新冠肺炎病例。
According to an article published in the New England Journal of Medicine on January 29 by state-run CDC and Hubei Province CDC, on December 29, 2019, Wuhan local hospital discovered the first four reported cases of new crown pneumonia through the PUE surveillance system.
但实际上，根据中国CDC的回溯性分析，以发病日统计，2019年12月31日前已经有104人感染，15人死亡。
But, in fact, according to a retrospective analysis by China's CDC, 104 people were infected and 15 died by December 31, 2019.
。
.
“临床医生在接诊时发现不明原因肺炎病人，按要求本应立即报告，但实际操作中没人管。
"The clinician found an unidentified pneumonia patient at the time of admission, which should have been reported immediately, but it was not attended to in practice.
医生都很忙，上报就意味着后续一系列登记填表、调查的工作要做，这对于他们是额外的负担。
Doctors are so busy that reporting means they have to follow a series of registration forms and investigations, which places an additional burden on them.
”汪华说，目前，发热门诊、不明原因肺炎监测系统、流感监测系统，都是彼此独立的，因管理部门不同，分散在医疗机构的管理单项里面。
At present, the fever clinic, the unexplained pneumonia surveillance system and the influenza surveillance system are independent of each other and are dispersed within the management of medical institutions because of differences in management, Wang said.
。
.
对此，多位公卫专家表示，应当合并这些分散的监测系统，建立一个统一的呼吸道疾病的监测系统，同时打通临床诊断、报告、治疗与疫情防控各个环节。
In this regard, a number of public health experts said that these decentralized surveillance systems should be merged to create a unified respiratory disease surveillance system, while opening the way for clinical diagnosis, reporting, treatment and disease prevention and control.
比如，能否在医院的电子诊疗系统做一个改进，当医生接诊一个不明原因肺炎病人，不需要再另填表，只需在他的系统里点击按钮，这个病例就能发送到监测系统里去。
For example, if an improvement can be made in the hospital's electronic diagnostic system, when a doctor visits a patient with pneumonia due to unknown causes, there is no need to fill out another form, just click a button in his system and the case can be sent to the monitoring system.
。
.
在此次疫情中，许多临床医生在早期就觉察到了异常，但由于缺乏明确的诊断，直报系统无法使用，只能层层人工上报。
In this case, many clinicians are aware of abnormalities early on, but due to the lack of clear diagnosis, the direct reporting system cannot be used and can only be reported manually.
武汉市中心医院急诊科主任艾芬在接受《中国新闻周刊》采访时就表示，2019年12月28日，她所在的急诊科接诊了4例和华南海鲜市场有关的发热病人，在29日向医院公共卫生科作了上报。
On December 28, 2019, her emergency department treated four cases of fever related to the South China seafood market and reported them to the public health department of the hospital, Aifen, director of emergency department at Wuhan Central Hospital, told China News Weekly.
医院公共卫生科又上报给武汉市江汉区疾控中心。
Hospital public health department also reported to Wuhan Jianghan CDC.
对方回复称，湖北省中西医结合医院与武汉市红十字会医院此前也上报了类似病例。
The other side replied that Hubei combined Chinese and Western medicine hospital and Wuhan Red Cross Hospital had previously reported similar cases.
。
.
另据媒体报道，靠近华南海鲜市场一家叫优抚的二级医院接收了多例不明原因发热病人。
According to media reports, near the South China seafood market a level II hospital called Youcai received a number of cases of unexplained fever patients.
1月10日左右，尽管医院将集中发热的情况报告给上级疾控部门，但对方并未马上来医院进行调研。
Around January 10, although the hospital reported the concentrated fever to its superior CDC, the other party did not come to the hospital immediately to conduct the investigation.
对此，香港中文大学流行病学荣休教授唐金陵就指出，应当重视一线临床医生的判断。
Tang Jinling, professor of epidemiology at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, pointed out that the judgment of frontline clinicians should be taken seriously.
在未来改进监测系统时，应当考虑把临床医生的观察与判断纳入进去。
The observation and judgement of clinicians should be taken into account in future improvements to the monitoring system.
。
.
对于临床医生和疾控专家在疫情发生早期相互沟通、协作的关系，李立明以美国为例介绍说，美国每个医院的急诊科里面都配有CDC专家，他们的任务，就是在急诊室随时发现新的异常病例，建立起一种敏感度很高的疫情监测系统。
As for the relationship between clinicians and disease control experts in the early stages of the epidemic, Li cited the United States as an example of an emergency department staffed with CDC specialists whose job is to detect new cases of abnormality in emergency rooms and to establish a highly sensitive disease surveillance system.
疾控专家与临床医生一起工作，这才叫真正的医防结合。
CDC experts work with clinicians, which is what's called a real medical-defense combination.
。
.
陈国强等人指出，在3～4周防控初期的“误判”，在很大程度上降低了公众甚至是医务工作者的警觉和防护意识，进而加大了后阶段疫情防控的难度。
Chen Guoqiang and others point out that the "misjudgment" in the early stages of prevention and control in 3-4 weeks greatly reduces the awareness of the public and even medical workers, thus making prevention and control of the disease more difficult in the latter stages.
他们认为，在疫情发生的萌芽阶段，地方政府在面对可能威胁人民群众生命安全和身体健康的重大传染病, 尤其是未知传染病疫情时应该及时倾听和回应专家意见, 并合理合情地向公众报告, 赋予公众知情权，既防止造成恐慌，也强化公众的警觉和自我防护意识。
They believe that in the early stages of an outbreak, local governments should listen to and respond to expert opinions in a timely manner when facing major infectious diseases, especially unknown infectious diseases, which may threaten people's lives and health, and reasonably report to the public so as to give the public the right to know, thus preventing panic and strengthening public awareness of vigilance and self-defense.
与此同时，国家卫生部门和疾病防疫部门应该在“内部知情期”就制定科学合理的防控预案，既要有最好的预期，也要做最坏的打算。
At the same time, state health departments and epidemic prevention departments should work out scientific and rational prevention and control plans during the "internal knowledge period," expecting both the best and the worst.
。
.
“宁可错杀一千，也不漏掉一个”。
Better to kill a thousand by mistake than to miss one.
“当觉察到异常以后，接下来要对疾病有正确的判断。
"When an abnormality is detected, the next step is to make a correct judgment about the disease.
新发疾病早期不要等待诊断方法，可以根据症状判断，有异常就应及时采取社会行动。
New diseases do not wait for the early diagnosis method, can be judged according to symptoms, abnormal social action should be taken in time.
”复旦大学公共卫生学院原院长、流行病学教授姜庆五说。
Jiang Qingwu, former dean and professor of epidemiology at Fudan University School of Public Health.
。
.
据财新报道，1月4日，武汉市卫健委给当地医生的一次培训中，下发了《不明原因的病毒性肺炎诊疗方案（试行）》和《不明原因的病毒性肺炎入排标准》。
According to Caixin, on January 4, Wuhan Health Care Commission gave a training to local doctors, issued "unknown causes of viral pneumonia diagnosis and treatment (trial)" and "unknown causes of viral pneumonia into the standard.
其中，前者由卫健委第一批专家组与湖北当地专家组共同制定，而《入排标准》则由武汉市卫健委编制。
Among them, the first group of health care committee and Hubei local expert group jointly developed, while the "Row Standard" by Wuhan Health Commission compiled.
。
.
相比之下，武汉市卫健委编制的《入排标准》对于确诊条件更加严格，须同时具备临床表征与流行病学史，即有华南海鲜市场的接触史。
By contrast, the entry standards compiled by the Wuhan Health Commission are more stringent for the diagnosis of the conditions, must have clinical characteristics and epidemiological history, that is, a history of exposure to the South China seafood market.
但此后多个回溯性研究均表明，过分强调“华南海鲜市场接触史”的流行病学特征，会漏掉许多病例。
Since then, however, several retrospective studies have shown that an overemphasis on the epidemiological characteristics of the "history of exposure to the South China seafood market" has resulted in the omission of many cases.
比如，据武汉金银潭医院副院长黄朝林等人在《柳叶刀》上发表的论文，该院最初收治的41例不明原因肺炎病例中，有14例没有华南海鲜市场接触史。
For example, according to a paper published in The Lancet by Huang Chaolin, vice-president of Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, 14 of the 41 cases of unexplained pneumonia initially admitted to the hospital had no history of exposure to the South China seafood market.
国家CDC主任高福等人1月29日在《新英格兰医学杂志》上发表的文章也显示，在1月1日前发病的病例中，仅55％与华南海鲜市场相关。
In an article in the New England Journal of Medicine on Jan. 29, National CDC director Gao Fuk and others showed that only 55 percent of the cases that developed before January 1 were related to the South China seafood market.
。
.
2月22日，工作人员给封闭中的武汉华南海鲜市场进行消毒。
On February 22, workers disinfected the closed seafood market in southern China.
摄影/解放日报 赖鑫琳。
Photo / Liberation Daily Lai Xinlin.
对此，武汉金银潭医院院长张定宇告诉《中国新闻周刊》，疫情早期，专家都会把华南海鲜市场接触史作为流行病学意义上很重要的依据，“没有谁敢单凭一张CT片，或者一个血常规，就说这是什么病。
In response, Zhang Dingyu, director of Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, told China News Weekly that in the early days of the epidemic, experts had identified the history of exposure to the South China seafood market as an epidemiological basis.
现在放射科医生，只要拿到CT片，加上病人的症状，比如咳嗽比较多，咳痰比较少，都敢拍胸脯说就是新冠肺炎。
Now radiologists, as long as the CT, plus the patient's symptoms, such as cough more, cough less sputum, dare to pat chest is said to be new crown pneumonia.
”多位专家也指出，新冠疫情暴发的时间，正好是流感及非典型性肺炎的流行季，也是很多呼吸道传染病高发的季节，这些因素都使得鉴别诊断一个新的呼吸道传染病变得更加困难。
Experts also point out that the timing of the outbreak coincides with an epidemic of influenza and atypical pneumonia, as well as a high incidence of respiratory infections, making it more difficult to identify and diagnose a new respiratory infection.
。
.
但李立明指出，病例筛选的标准严格，好处是抓得更准一些，但其实这样做是很危险的。
But Li pointed out that the criteria for screening cases are strict and have the advantage of being more accurate, but it is dangerous to do so.
“为了发现和控制传染源，‘宁可错杀一千，也不漏掉一个’是原则，所以要强调诊断方法的灵敏度要高一些，临床诊断标准可能应该宽一点，以保证不漏掉任何一个可疑的传染源”。
"In order to detect and control the source of infection, 'Better kill a thousand rather than miss one' is the principle, so emphasize the sensitivity of the diagnostic method, and the clinical criteria should be wider to ensure that no suspected source of infection is left out."
。
.
国家CDC副主任冯子健后来也对媒体承认，因为偏向更精准的病例锁定，对疫情判断有保守的倾向。
Feng Zijian, deputy director of the National CDC, later admitted to the media that there was a conservative bias towards the epidemic because of a preference for more accurate case-locking.
“这个过程中面临的困难是没有诊断试剂，当有了检测试剂之后，早期迹象也表明，刚开始用时，试剂对上呼吸道、下呼吸道标本阳性检出率比较低，我们不敢轻易排除掉。
"The difficulty in this process is the absence of diagnostic reagents and, when reagents are available, early indications are that they are less likely to be positive for upper respiratory tract and lower respiratory tract specimens at the beginning of use.
受这种早期的限制，我们下结论就非常谨慎。
Given this early limitation, we are cautious in drawing conclusions.
”。
"
疫情发生一个多月以来，《新冠肺炎诊疗方案》前前后后已经修订过5次，出了6个版本，因为确定了病原体的存在，这些方案都要求新冠肺炎的确诊条件之一为病原体检测结果阳性。
More than a month after the outbreak, the New Crown Pneumonia Diagnosis and Treatment Programme has been revised five times and produced six versions because of the presence of pathogens identified, all of which require positive results from pathogen testing as one of the conditions for the diagnosis of new crown pneumonia.
。
.
复旦大学公卫教授胡善联指出，需要通过核酸检测确诊病人，初期核酸检测试剂盒不足，对疫情防控造成了一定延误。
Hu Shanlian, professor of public health at Fudan University, said patients needed to be diagnosed with nucleic acid tests, which caused delays in disease control due to a shortage of initial nucleic acid test kits.
“部分疑似病人最终应该是确诊的病人，由于检测试剂供应不够，很多疑似病人没有及时确诊，也造成了一定的传播。
"Some of the suspected patients should eventually be diagnosed, because the supply of detection reagents is insufficient, many suspected patients have not been diagnosed in a timely manner, resulting in a certain spread.
”。
"
陈国强等人也指出，疫情暴发后，因流程尚不清晰，出现了符合资质的医疗机构迟迟无法获得检测资质，大量疑似病人积压给临床工作带来巨大压力，而疾控部门由于短时间研发生产的检测试剂质量“良莠不齐”，样本采集标准化程度不高等问题难以将检测权限下放。
Chen Guoqiang and others also pointed out that after the outbreak, because the process is not clear, the emergence of qualified medical institutions have not been qualified for testing, a large backlog of suspected patients caused great pressure on clinical work, and the CDC because the quality of detection reagents developed and produced in a short period of time is "mixed" and the standard of sample collection is not high.
在这个过程中，双方的沟通与协商机制在早期不够健全，影响病毒感染者的早期筛查和确诊，成为延误诊断的“堰塞湖”。
In this process, the two sides of the communication and consultation mechanism in the early period is not sound, affecting the early screening and diagnosis of infected persons, has become a delayed diagnosis of "Yan Sehu."
。
.
核酸检测的另一个大问题是“假阴性”高，即使对于已确诊的病人阳性率也只有30％～50％。
Another big problem with nucleic acid testing is the high rate of "false negatives," which is only 30-50 per cent for confirmed patients.
因此，第五版《诊疗方案》对湖北省内的疑似病例不做流行病学史要求，并将肺部CT表现视为“临床诊断”类别。
Therefore, the fifth edition of the Diagnostic and Therapeutic Plan does not require an epidemiological history of suspected cases in Hubei Province, and considers CT manifestations of the lung as a category of "clinical diagnosis."
诊断标准调整后，2月12日，湖北新冠肺炎病例激增了14840例，其中含临床诊断病例13332例。
After adjusting the diagnostic criteria, the number of cases of Xinguan pneumonia in Hubei Province surged by 14,840 on February 12, including 13,332 cases of clinical diagnosis.
。
.
第五版诊断又回到了最初的临床诊断。
The fifth edition of the diagnosis returned to the original clinical diagnosis.
对此，姜庆五表示，“果断地采取措施非常重要。
"It is very important to take decisive measures," Jiang said.
一个新发传染病不一定要等待病原清楚、诊断方法建立。
A newly emerging infectious disease does not have to wait for the pathogen to become clear and diagnostic methods are established.
还好我们现在有先进技术，如果放到十几年前，这样的情况根本不可思议。
Fortunately, we now have advanced technology, if put more than a decade ago, such a situation is simply inconceivable.
”。
"
香港中文大学流行病学荣休教授唐金陵也指出，和上次SARS一样，媒体上传播的消息，使公众和决策者认为，分离病毒以及研制检测方法、治疗方法和疫苗等工作是首要的工作。
Professor Tang Jinling, Professor of Epidemiology at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, also pointed out that, like the last SARS outbreak, news disseminated in the media made the separation of the virus and the development of testing methods, treatments and vaccines a top priority for the public and policy makers.
“我认为这是完全错误的，是本末倒置的做法。
"I think it's totally wrong and upside-down.
这些研究固然重要，但是对于控制迫在眉睫的传染病，根本就来不及。
Important as these studies are, they are too late to control an impending epidemic.
”。
"
他还举例说，上次的SARS疫情就不是靠发现病毒来控制住的，至今也没有有效的治疗办法，疫苗至今还是遥遥无期。
He added that the last SARS outbreak was not controlled by the discovery of a virus, that there is no effective treatment and that the vaccine is still far away.
成功控制SARS最终靠的是传统的检疫、隔离、消毒、通风、个人防护等卫生措施。
Successful SARS control ultimately depends on traditional quarantine, isolation, disinfection, ventilation, personal protection and other health measures.
如果SARS期间我们更早、更大地让卫生和疾控发挥作用，可能传播的范围会小得多，死的人会少得多，医护人员的保护会好得多。
If we had let hygiene and disease control work earlier and more during SARS, it would have spread much less, killed far fewer people and protected health-care workers much better.
。
.
2月18日深夜，工作中的武汉急救中心120调度员陈蕾。
Late at night on Feb. 18, 120 dispatcher Chen Lei at Wuhan First Aid Center.
新冠肺炎疫情发生以来，武汉市急救中心工作量剧增，陈蕾每天晚8点至早8点工作不停歇。
Since the outbreak of the new crown pneumonia, Wuhan City first aid center workload has increased dramatically, Chen Lei every night from 8 pm to 8 am work.
她的一个愿望是“等疫情结束，我要好好睡个觉！”摄影/长江日报 陈亮。
One of her wishes was "I want a good sleep when the epidemic is over!" Photo / Changjiang Daily Chen Liang.
“如果决策者缺乏专业知识，。
"If policymakers lack expertise.
专业人士的建议可能也是徒劳”。
Professional advice may also be futile.
2019年12月31日，国家卫健委第一批专家组抵达武汉。
On 31 December 2019, the first group of experts from the National Health Commission arrived in Wuhan.
这一天，中国CDC应急中心主任李群与同事们也赶到武汉，分三组对武汉金银潭医院的89例收治病人全部进行了调查。
Li Qun, director of China's CDC Emergency Response Center, and colleagues arrived in Wuhan on the same day to conduct a three-group investigation of all 89 patients admitted to Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
他们的工作包括病例监测、流行病学调查、密切接触者管理等。
Their work includes case surveillance, epidemiological investigation, close contacts management, etc.
据CDC官网信息，“随着大量认真细致的调查分析，相关调查研究和风险评估报告陆续提供到决策部门手中。
According to CDC, "with a lot of careful investigation and analysis, the relevant investigation and risk assessment reports continue to be provided to the decision-making departments.
”。
"
CDC的流行病学调查结果如何，以及这些风险评估报告对决策部门起到什么作用，这些情况至今仍不得而知。
The epidemiological findings of the CDC and the impact of these risk assessment reports on policy-making remain unknown.
姜庆五说，从结果来看，当时，没有看到有流行病学或公共卫生学专家出来发声，病原学以外的事情没有刻画出来，比如只看到华南海鲜市场，但是当时有一部分病人并非从海鲜市场获得感染。
'Judging from the results, we didn't see epidemiologists or public health experts coming out and things other than etiology didn't come out, such as seeing the South China seafood market, 'he said.
。
.
中疾控传染病预防控制所病毒学家、复旦大学上海市公共卫生临床中心兼职教授张永振领导的团队于2019年12月26日收到来自武汉的不明原因发热患者标本一份。
On December 26, 2019, a team led by virologist and adjunct professor at Shanghai Public Health Clinical Center of Fudan University received a specimen of an unexplained febrile patient from Wuhan.
1月5日上午，他们从标本中检测出一种新型冠状病毒，获得了该病毒的全基因组序列。
On the morning of January 5, they detected a new coronavirus from a specimen and obtained a complete genome sequence of the virus.
上海公卫临床中心在同日向国家卫健委提交了一份病原学调查报告。
The Shanghai Public Health Clinic Center submitted a report on etiology to the National Fitness and Health Commission on the same day.
报告指出：鉴于该病毒与造成SARS疫情的冠状病毒同源，应是经呼吸道传播，建议在公共场所采取相应的防控措施以及在临床救治中采用抗病毒治疗。
The report said the virus and the cause of SARS coronavirus homologous, should be transmitted through the respiratory tract, recommended in public places to take appropriate prevention and control measures and clinical treatment in the use of antiviral treatment.
。
.
但这份报告似乎并未起到什么作用。
But the report does not seem to have worked.
从第二天，即1月6日开始，到1月10日，武汉市卫健委均未作疫情通报。
From January 6, the next day, until January 10, Wuhan city health committee did not report the disease.
与此形成对照的是，早至1月4日，香港特区政府便对不明原因肺炎启动了“严重”级别应变，尽管当时该地怀疑病例只有7例。
By contrast, as early as January 4, the HKSAR government launched a "severe" response to unexplained pneumonia, despite the fact that only seven cases were suspected at the time.
。
.
“是公共卫生系统出问题了。
"There's something wrong with the public health system.
”曾光告诉《中国新闻周刊》，“不是流行学调查没调查好，也不是病毒不该研究，也不是不该发论文。
Zeng told China News Weekly: "It is not that epidemiological surveys are not well investigated, nor that viruses should not be studied nor that papers should not be distributed.
这些信息都报上去了，怎么及时转化成防控行动？现在的新冠疫情防控，还不是一个应急的战时体制，就像打仗，有情报部、参谋部、司令部，情报信息迅速到参谋部去研判，参谋部给出建议以后，司令部马上就拍板，应该是这么一个体制。
Now the new crown disease control system is not an emergency wartime system, just like war, intelligence department, general staff, headquarters, intelligence information is quickly sent to the general staff for deliberation, and the general staff gives advice.
” 。
"
美国加州大学洛杉矶分校公共卫生学院副院长、流行病学资深终身教授张作风回忆说，2003年SARS的成功防治，得益于当时有很多流行病学专家和疾控专家献计献策。
Zhang style, a senior life-long epidemiologist and vice president of the UCLA School of Public Health, recalled that the success of SARS prevention and treatment in 2003 was due to the contributions of many epidemiologists and disease control specialists.
。
.
然而，一位疾控专家认为，社会仍未从过去的教训中总结经验。
However, according to one CDC expert, society is still learning from the lessons of the past.
SARS期间，作为防控顾问，他能直接参与研判，得出的结论或者建议很快地转化为防控行动。
During SARS, as a consultant on prevention and control, he was able to participate directly in the diagnosis and the conclusions or recommendations were quickly translated into control actions.
而现在，省疾控中心的调查结果要向省卫生厅报告，市、区、县疾控向各级卫健委报告，卫生行政部门要向政府报告。
Now, the results of the survey of the provincial CDC should be reported to the provincial health department, the city, district and county disease control should report to the health committee at all levels, and the health administrative department should report to the government.
“经过一层一层上报，效率就没了，而且真正报上去的信息可能也走样了。
"There is a layer of reporting, the efficiency is gone, and the information that is actually reported may be out of whack.
” 。
"
陈国强等人则指出，地区决策者是公共卫生事件中的指挥主体，需要第一时间组织专家团队提供决策建议。
Chen Guoqiang and others point out that the regional decision-makers are public health events in command of the main body, need to organize the first expert team to provide decision-making recommendations.
武汉作为国内临床医疗、公共卫生及病毒研究最豪华的专业阵容所在地，此次专业团队在当地政府早期疫情判断及应对决策过程中的作用似乎没有得到最大发挥, 是需要深入思考与反省的。
Wuhan as the most luxurious professional lineup of clinical medicine, public health and virus research in China, the role of professional team in the local government's early disease diagnosis and decision-making process does not seem to be the most developed, it needs in-depth reflection and reflection.
。
.
曾光说，如果决策者缺乏专业知识，专业人士的建议可能也是徒劳。
If policymakers lack expertise, Mr. Zeng says, professionals' advice can be futile.
此次各地因新冠抗疫不力被问责或者免职的卫健系统官员，大多不具备医疗或者卫生管理专业背景。
Most of the health-care system officials who have been held accountable or dismissed for failing to fight the disease do not have a medical or health-management background.
姜庆五表示，“很多地方的卫健委，一把手、二把手都没有医学背景，也没有公共卫生教育背景，这是我很吃惊的，因为这是一个需要强有力的专业知识支撑的岗位。
"I am surprised that many places have no medical background, no medical background, no public health education background, because this is a position that needs strong professional knowledge," Jiang said.
湖北疫情早期的各种问题，都与这种‘不是专业的人却在做专业的事’的现象有一定关系。
The problems in the early stages of the Hubei epidemic have something to do with the phenomenon of 'unprofessional people doing professional things'.
”。
"
李立明强调，基本的公卫知识和观念非常重要。
Li stressed the importance of basic public health knowledge and concepts.
“呼吸道传染病，怎么可能不出现人传人？只是时间早晚的问题，不应该出现‘有限的人传人’这种说法。
"Respiratory tract infections, how can there be no human-to-human transmission? It is only a matter of time before there should be no 'limited person-to-person'.
如果全社会都有一些基本共识，早期防控不应该是这样。
If there is some basic consensus in society, early prevention and control should not be that way.
”。
"
1月19日，曾光与中国工程院院士钟南山等人一起，以国家卫健委高级别专家组成员的身份再赴武汉。
January 19, Zeng Guang and the Chinese Academy of Engineering academician Zhong Nan Shan, and others, as members of the high-level expert group of the National Health Commission to Wuhan.
1月20日晚，钟南山在与央视的直播连线中，肯定了新型冠状病毒存在人传人的现象，并称有14名医务人员在护理一名患者过程中被感染。
On the night of January 20, Zhong Nan Shan confirmed the human-to-human transmission of the new coronavirus and said 14 medical personnel were infected while nursing a patient.
疫情防控由此迎来转折点。
This marks a turning point in epidemic prevention and control.
。
.
在当天下午的发布会上，曾光公开呼吁，春节期间减少人群流动，能不到武汉去就不去，武汉人能不出来就不出来，“这不是官方号召，是我们专家组的建议。
At the afternoon press conference, Zeng Guang made a public appeal to reduce the flow of people during the Spring Festival, can not go to Wuhan, Wuhan can not come out, "This is not an official call, it is our expert group recommendations.
”。
"
2月24日，武汉一家医院内，护士正在整理新冠肺炎逝者的遗物。
On Feb. 24, nurses at a hospital in Wuhan were sorting out the remains of the dead with pneumonia.
。
.
只有中国有条件实施“围堵策略”。
Only China has the conditions to implement the "containment strategy."
陈国强等人指出，由于疫情防控早期的预案是缺失的，疫情防控早期存在的问题是造成后阶段花费巨大成本、举全国之力抗疫的重要原因之一。
Chen Guoqiang and others pointed out that because the disease prevention and control early plan is missing, the disease prevention and control in the early stage of the problem is costly, the national capacity to fight the disease is one of the important reasons.
1月23日，以武汉封城为标志，一场史无前例的新冠病毒狙击战正式拉开帷幕。
On January 23, an unprecedented sniper war for the new crown virus, marked by the closure of Wuhan, officially opened.
。
.
中疾控传染病预防控制处研究员冯录召等人在《我国新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情早期围堵策略概述》一文中，将此次中国采取的防控措施总结为“围堵策略”，即在限定的地理范围内，采用医学和非医学如区域封锁、停学停工等措施，迅速阻断疫情传播。
In an article entitled "An Overview of China's New Coronavirus Pneumonia Incipient Containment Strategy," Feng Luo-chuang, a researcher in the Department of Infectious Disease Prevention and Control, summed up the prevention and control measures taken by China as "containment strategy," that is, within a limited geographical area, medical and non-medical measures such as regional blockade, school suspension and other measures to quickly stop the spread of the epidemic.
文章指出，围堵策略降低了除武汉外中国其他地区出现社区持续传播的风险，但也对武汉等疫情较重地区的人民生活和社会生产造成了一定影响，经济和社会成本巨大。
The paper points out that the strategy of blocking reduces the risk of continuous community transmission in other parts of China except Wuhan, but it also has an impact on people's lives and social production in places with severe epidemics, such as Wuhan, with huge economic and social costs.
。
.
陈国强等人指出，在武汉保卫战中，疫情发展过程中应急启动医疗机构分区诊疗、全面隔离确诊与疑似病例、有效切断传播途径的举措显得力不从心。
Chen Guoqiang and others pointed out that in the course of the defense war in Wuhan, the emergency operation of medical institutions in the course of regional diagnosis and treatment, isolation diagnosis and suspected cases, effective cut-off of the transmission way appears to be inadequate.
一方面, 传染病医疗资源储备不足问题突显，以武汉市为例，户籍人口及常住人口共1400万, 而专门的传染病医院仅金银潭医院和肺科医院两所，床位共900余张，平均下来0.64床/万人，远低于我国传染病医院床位数按城市非农业人口1.2～1.5床/万人的设置标准。
On the one hand, the shortage of medical resources for infectious diseases highlights the fact that in Wuhan, for example, there are 14 million residents and 14 million residents. The specialized hospitals for infectious diseases have only two hospitals, Au and Tam and Lung Tam, with an average bed capacity of 0.64 beds / 10,000.
与此同时，武汉市综合性医院内传染科体量非常有限，更缺少可在突发情况下快速改变用途，“平战结合”的感染病房。
At the same time, Wuhan City General Hospital within the infection family is very limited, more lack of rapid change of use in the event of emergencies, "peacetime integration" infection ward.
疫情防控战一旦打响, 医政管理部门难以在第一时间组建有效的防控“预备队”。
Once the epidemic prevention and control war begins, it is difficult for the medical administration to form an effective "reserve force" in the first place.
实际上, 中国其他多数城市和地区也面临同样的问题。
In fact, most other cities and regions in China face the same problem.
。
.
封城也带来了新的问题。
The closure of the city has also brought new problems.
在武汉，超千万人口的九省通衢之地突然被掐断与外地联系，让当地物资、生活、就医等问题面临极大考验。
In Wuhan, the thoroughfare of nine provinces, thoroughfare of more than ten million people, has suddenly been cut off from the rest of the world, putting local supplies, livelihood and medical care to the test.
“单纯封城是远远不够的，应该在封城前要做好充分的准备，封城后跟进相应预防措施。
"It is not enough simply to seal the city, should be well prepared before sealing the city, after the corresponding preventive measures follow-up.
”张作风说。
'said Zhang style.
。
.
不过，冯录召等人认为，尽管世卫组织在大流感防控中曾提出类似的策略，但在许多国家是难以实施的。
But Feng Lou and others argue that while WHO has proposed a similar strategy in pandemic preparedness, it is difficult to implement in many countries.
中国在应对新发传染病时，有政府指导下的多部门统筹协调、群众积极响应以及2003年“非典”和2009年甲型流感大流行应对经验，因此具备实施围堵策略的优势。
When dealing with new infectious diseases, China has the advantages of implementing a containment strategy, thanks to multi-sectoral coordination under the guidance of the government, a positive response from the public, and experience in handling the SARS and influenza A pandemics in 2003 and 2009 respectively.
。
.
姜庆五也表示，通过数据分析发现，现在看到的新发病例高峰也就是拐点，是封城以后带来的效应，如果不采取封城，现在可能还是另外一种局面。
Jiang also said data analysis showed that the peak of new cases now seen, the inflection point, is the effect of the closure, if not the closure, may now be a different situation.
拐点和封城的时间，从流行病学上来说是吻合的。
The timing of the inflection point and closure is epidemiological.
。
.
在传染源的管理上，尽管此前已经有诸多专业人士呼吁对病人进行分层管理，隔离疑似病人，但直到2月1日，武汉才迈出实质一步。
Wuhan did not take a substantial step forward in the management of the infection until February 1, despite calls by many professionals for stratified management of patients and isolation of suspected patients.
当天，武汉市新冠肺炎防控指挥部发出紧急通知，要求各区指挥部，在2日12点前，完成对新冠肺炎确诊、疑似、发热及密切接触者“四类人员”的集中收治和隔离工作。
On the same day, Wuhan Hsinchuang Pneumonia Control Command issued an urgent notice, the regional commands, by 12: 00 pm, to complete the diagnosis, suspected, fever and close contacts of the "four categories of people" of treatment and isolation.
其中最重要的措施是方舱医院的建设。
One of the most important measures is the construction of the square cabin hospital.
。
.
但一位公卫专家认为，方舱医院应用在野战、自然灾害等场景中，优势很明显。
But a public health expert thinks, square cabin hospital uses in the field, natural disaster and so on scene, the advantage is very obvious.
但是由于传染病传播途径非常多元，这样把轻症患者集中起来，可能存在二次感染的风险。
However, due to the wide variety of ways in which infectious diseases are transmitted, there may be a risk of secondary infection when light cases are concentrated.
“方舱医院病床之间的距离非常小，所有人都共用卫生间与盥洗台，这并不理想。
"The distance between the hospital beds in the square cabin is very small and everyone shares toilets and washstands, which is not ideal.
”另一位专业人士表示。
'says another professional.
。
.
而在湖北省以外的地方，通过调动全社会力量和资源，阻断一切不必要的人员流动，李立明表示，形势在趋向乐观，但仍需警惕，以防反弹。
Outside Hubei province, Li said the situation was moving toward optimism by mobilizing all social forces and resources and blocking all unnecessary human flows, but needed to be vigilant in case of a rebound.
。
.
2月24日，中国-世界卫生组织新型冠状病毒肺炎联合专家考察组外方组长、世界卫生组织总干事高级顾问布鲁斯·艾尔沃德在对中国所采取的措施进行评价时说，面对一种未为人知的新型病毒，中国采取了恢弘、灵活和积极的防控措施。
On February 24, Bruce Alvold, Senior Advisor to the Director-General of the World Health Organization and head of the foreign team of the China-WHO Joint Expert Mission on Coronavirus Pneumonia, said in an evaluation of the measures taken by China, that China has adopted ambitious, flexible and proactive measures to control the disease.
。
.
艾尔沃德对中国防控策略的转化过程评价说，中国从最初采取的比较整齐划一的方法，慢慢地转变到基于科学的、以风险为导向的管理方法。
Eilward's evaluation of China's control strategy says China is slowly moving from a more homogeneous approach to a science-based, risk-oriented approach to management.
他认为，这样的成绩来之不易，“因为这些流行病学的曲线，其背后在每一条线上都是一个了不起的政策决定。
He argues that this has not been easy, "because these epidemiological curves are behind each line is a great policy decision."
” 。
"
对于中国采取的封城之类的围堵策略，艾尔沃德认为，“这些做法相当现代，目的是为了迅速地找到每一个感染者，穷尽式地追踪到密切接触者并进行隔离。
"These practices are fairly modern," he says, "in order to find everyone infected quickly, to track down and isolate close contacts in an exhaustive manner."
”“在这样的突发公共卫生事件的情况下是可以凝聚起民众的力量的。
"In a public health emergency like this, the power of the people can be mustered.
”。
"
武汉体育中心4300平方米的主体育馆内，设置近600张床位的“方舱医院”。
Wuhan Sports Center 4300 square meters inside the main stadium, set up a nearly 600-bed "square cabin hospital."
摄影/柯皓。
Photography / Ko Hao.
在目前情况下，美国对外关系委员会全球卫生高级研究员黄严忠指出，根据疫情的变化，政府宜尽早制定方案，选择适当时机，以减轻损失策略代替围堵策略，换句话说，应更多地侧重于救治重症患者和高危人群，而不再将主要精力放在找到感染者及其密切接触者上。
In the current situation, Huang Yan-chung, Senior Global Health Fellow of the United States Council on Foreign Relations, said that in the light of the changing epidemic, it would be better for the Government to develop programmes early and choose the appropriate time to replace the containment strategy. In other words, more emphasis should be placed on treating the seriously ill and high-risk groups rather than on finding the infected and their close contacts.
。
.
曾光认为，接下来的防控要在动态环境中及时发现病人，及时调整策略。
Zeng Guang believes that the next prevention and control in the dynamic environment to timely find patients, timely adjustment of strategies.
医院不能一直处在停诊状态，在北京这样的大城市，可能因为停诊造成的损失要超过新冠肺炎带来的损失。
Hospitals cannot be out of service all the time, and in a big city like Beijing, the loss of a stop may outweigh the cost of a new crown pneumonia.
现在有些措施，例如在社区里，如果发现某个楼栋有感染者，就封闭共同使用电梯的这个单元，这都是可商榷的，应根据流行病学线索指导精确防控，这样才有利于下一步复工、复学。
Some measures, such as the closure of a shared elevator unit in the community if an infected person is found in a building, are debatable and should be guided by epidemiological leads to precise prevention and control in order to facilitate the resumption of work and school.
。
.
全国新冠病毒专家组成员、北京大学中国卫生经济研究中心主任刘国恩也指出，接下来地方应根据本地疫情，在复工和防控之间找到更好的平衡关系，不要让没有必要的管制措施产生的社会经济次生代价超过疫情本身。
Liu Guoan, a member of the National New Crown Virus Expert Group and director of the China Center for Health Economics Research at Peking University, said the next step was to find a better balance between work resumption and prevention and control based on the local epidemic, so that the socio-economic secondary costs of unnecessary controls do not outweigh the epidemic itself.
返回搜狐，查看更多 。
Go back to Sohu and see more.
责任编辑：。
Responsible Editor:.
$('#tipInfo').text('已实名回应');。
$(& apos; # tipInfo & apos;). text (& apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;
声明：该文观点仅代表作者本人，搜狐号系信息发布平台，搜狐仅提供信息存储空间服务。
Statement: This article only represents the author, Sohu is the information dissemination platform, Sohu only provides information storage space services.
。
.
阅读 (94万)。
Reading (0.94 million).
我来说两句47人参与，32条评论。
Let me say a few words about 47 people and 32 comments.
来说两句吧……。
Say a word or two.
快速登录：。
Quick login:.
登录并发表。
Log in and publish.
评论不能为空！。
Comments cannot be empty.
搜狐“我来说两句” 用户公约。
Sohu "Let me talk about" user convention.
最新评论。
Latest comments.
狐友5722975(陕西省安康市)。
Skulker Friends 5722975 (Ankang City, Shaanxi Province).
充分说明我们的专家组调查疫情马马虎虎，只听汇报，为什么不去医院调查，关键是当班医生，他们知道的情况最真实，专家组负有不可推卸的责任。
It is abundantly clear that our team of experts was careless in its investigation of the outbreak and listened only to the debriefing, why not go to the hospital to investigate. The key is the doctor on duty, who knows the truth and for whom the Group has an inescapable responsibility.
2月29日 01:59。
29 February 01: 59.
举报。
Reporting.
回复。
Response.
搜狐用户Z27Sg6EfCc(湖北省黄石市)。
Sohu user Z27Sg6EfCc (Huangshi City, Hubei Province).
让这些领导，专家戴罪立功，别急，总有人背锅。
Let these leaders, experts wear crime, don't worry, there is always someone to backfire.
2月29日 01:26。
29 February 01: 26.
举报。
Reporting.
回复。
Response.
搜狐用户Z27Sg6EfCc(湖北省黄石市)。
Sohu user Z27Sg6EfCc (Huangshi City, Hubei Province).
放心！秋后算账！。
Relax! After the autumn accounts!
2月29日 01:24。
29 February 01: 24.
举报。
Reporting.
回复。
Response.
青青3704(福建省福州市)。
Qingqing 3704 (Fuzhou, Fujian Province).
最应该担责的我认为是湖北政府，其次是个别专家组，不是他的掩盖下，事情不可能发展这么严重，掩盖事实才导致专家组的未能深究！。
I think Hubei government is the most responsible, followed by the individual expert group, not under his cover, things could not have developed so much that the cover-up of the facts led the Panel not to go into depth!
2月29日 01:06。
29 February 01: 06.
举报。
Reporting.
回复。
Response.
青青3704(福建省福州市)。
Qingqing 3704 (Fuzhou, Fujian Province).
也许是湖北的政府相关人员平时就是这样做事风格，一旦有事情先掩盖住事实，其实他们也不想的，平时都盖惯了，已经养成了习惯了，这次谁知道这么倒霉碰到新冠肺炎这种棘手的事情，哎悔不当初啊，妈妈救救我吧，我就犯了一个小错误，我保证以后再也不犯啦！。
Perhaps the government officials in Hubei usually do things in this way, if there is something to hide the truth, in fact, they do not want to, usually have become used to it, has formed a habit, this time who knows so unfortunate encounter with the new crown pneumonia, ah, repentance ah, mother save me, I made a small mistake, I promise never again!
2月29日 00:57。
29 February, 00: 57.
举报。
Reporting.
回复。
Response.
南4596(浙江省)。
South 4596 (Zhejiang Province).
高福武汉之行如何评价？。
How to evaluate the trip of Gao Fu Wuhan?
2月29日 00:16。
29 February, 00: 16.
举报。
Reporting.
回复。
Response.
微风6204190(浙江省湖州市)。
Breeze 6204190 (Huzhou, Zhejiang Province).
出了这么大疫情，处理了几百个干部，到现在还在互相推诿，没人担责，令人汗颜，令世界汗颜！。
Such an epidemic, the treatment of hundreds of cadres, until now still prevaricate, no one to blame, shame, make the world sweat!
2月29日 00:09。
29 February, 00: 09.
举报。
Reporting.
回复。
Response.
石有为(上海市)。
Shi Youwei (Shanghai).
外行负责内行，隔山！害死人，害国家！比如有的是搞教育的，也派到乡镇当1一2把手。
The layman is responsible for the professional, the next mountain! Kill the dead, harm the country! For example, some engaged in education, also sent to the township as a 12 leader.
美其名日，锻炼！。
Good name day, exercise!
2月28日 22:26。
28 February, 22: 26 hrs.
举报。
Reporting.
回复。
Response.
网友53124(青海省海北藏族自治州)。
Net friend 53124 (Haibei Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture, Qinghai Province).
每个人在自己的岗位上就要尽责!。
Every man is responsible for his own position.
2月28日 15:23。
28 February, 15: 23 p.m.
举报。
Reporting.
回复。
Response.
搜狐网友1556339(海南省海口市)。
Sohu netizen 1556339 (Hainan Province Haikou City).
国家卫健委有一位湖南籍副主任，我看过他的介绍，很专业 厉害的教授。
The national health committee has a deputy director of Hunan nationality, I have seen his introduction, very professional professor.
但可惜不是正职。
But unfortunately not the official position.
2月28日 13:38。
28 February, 13: 38 p.m.
举报。
Reporting.
回复。
Response.
已有32人参与，点击查看更多精彩评论。
Thirty-two people have participated. Click to view more wonderful comments.
该评论已关闭！。
The review has been closed.
选择举报类型。
Select the type of report.
营销广告。
Marketing advertising.
淫秽色情。
Pornography.
恶意攻击谩骂。
Malicious attacks and insults.
其他。
Other.
提交。
Submitted.
取消。
Cancelled.
实名认证。
Authentication of real names.
小狐提醒您：。
Little fox reminds you:
应国家法律要求，使用互联网服务需完成实名验证。
Access to Internet services is subject to real-name verification, as required by national law.
为保障您账号的正常使用，请尽快完成手机验证，感谢您的理解和支持！。
To ensure the normal use of your account, please complete the mobile phone verification as soon as possible, thank you for your understanding and support.
确定。
Definitely.
推荐阅读。
Recommended reading.
推荐。
Recommendation.
狐观医改。
Fox View Health Reform.
医生。
Doctor.
生命科学。
Life sciences.
谢谢。
Thank you.
高血压。
Hypertension.
患者救助。
Patient assistance.
糖尿病。
Diabetes.
针灸科。
Acupuncture plus moxibustion.
心脏病。
Heart disease.
风湿病科。
Rheumatology department.
就医帮。
Get medical help.
心血管科。
Cardiovascular Department.
刷新中..。
Update in..
您有未读新闻，点击查看。
You have unread news, click View.
日俄罕见意见一致指出：新冠病毒来源美国，如今已在全美大流行！。
The rare Japanese-Russian opinion unanimously points out that the New Crown Virus originated in the United States and is now prevalent throughout the United States!
方舟世界。
Ark World.
李登辉确诊染，办公室最新回应“状态不是很好”。
Lee Teng-hui confirmed the infection, the office's latest response "is not very good."
落笔如云。
Write like a cloud.
舆论漩涡中的高福院士。
Academicians in the whirlpool of public opinion.
智慧无痛。
Wisdom is painless.
兵团首例新冠肺炎重症患者治愈出院。
The first serious case of Newly Coronary Pneumonia was cured and discharged.
新华社。
Xinhua News Agency.
今天 04:38。
Today is 04: 38.
小说：董事长见到窝囊女婿，竟点头哈腰喊少爷，妻子和岳母都惊呆了。
Novels: the chairman saw the son-in-law, actually bow down to call young master, his wife and mother-in-law are stunned.
广告。
Advertising.
今天 4:54。
Today at 4: 54 p.m.
钟南山：疫情不一定发源在中国，日本处理邮轮疫情办法失败。
Zhong Nan Shan: The outbreak does not necessarily originate in China, Japan's approach to dealing with the cruise epidemic failed.
科普中国网。
Science China Network.
61岁男子自称17岁学生确诊肺炎，临死想看女性下体，已被拘留。
A 61-year-old man who claimed to have been diagnosed with pneumonia by a 17-year-old student was detained after dying to see the woman's nakedness.
百姓一点通。
The people make sense.
一病例从武汉坐车进京，如何做到！？湖北省委书记批示彻查！联合调查组赴湖北！。
A case from Wuhan into Beijing by car, how to do!? Hubei Provincial Party Secretary ordered a thorough investigation! Joint investigation team to Hubei!
天津交通广播。
Tianjin traffic broadcasting.
她如何突破武汉封城返京？记者实地探访离汉关卡：有人手续齐全也出不来。
How does she break through Wuhan sealing the city back to Beijing? Reporters on the spot to visit the Han level: someone complete procedures can not get out.
广东新闻频道。
Guangdong News Channel.
6000元都不敢要的翡翠原石，从设计到雕刻，成品价值瞬间翻了100倍！！。
6000 yuan do not dare to ask for emerald stone, from design to sculpture, the value of the finished product instantaneously increased 100 times!!
广告。
Advertising.
今天 4:54。
Today at 4: 54 p.m.
堪比好莱坞大片：囚犯与守卫一起逃出朝鲜。
It was like a Hollywood blockbuster: the prisoners escaped from North Korea with the guards.
王老。
Mr. Wang.
中央指导组成员再披露，公安部副部长孙力军一线指导公安系统抗疫。
Central Steering Group members again disclosed that the Vice Minister of Public Security Sun Lijun first-hand guidance of the public security system against epidemic.
南方都市报。
Southern Metropolis Daily.
补壹刀：海外因疫情迁怒中国的声音，正形成排华浪潮？。
Repair: overseas due to the outbreak of anger in China's voice, is the formation of a wave of China?
环球网。
World Wide Web.
CEO大骂人力资源总监：公司都要死了，你还跟我谈什么劳动法！。
The CEO scolded the HR director: The company is going to die, and you talked to me about the labor law!
包装地带。
Packing area.
刑释确诊女子离汉抵京！她是怎么走的？中央调查组赴湖北彻查|新闻日志。
A woman diagnosed with torture arrived in Beijing! How did she get there? The Central Investigation Team went to Hubei to check & # 124; & # 45; & # 45;
半岛晨报。
Al Jazeera Morning Post
没向武汉捐款被骂，周立波发文怒斥逼捐，并自称很牛逼。
Wuhan did not donate money was scolded, Zhou Libo angry excoriated contributions, and said that very bully.
浩辰影剧院。
Haochen Cinema Theatre.
公安部副部长回应“不戴口罩被捆绑”、“打麻将被游街”。
The deputy minister of public security responded to "being tied up without a mask" and "playing Mahjong was paraded".
新京报。
Beijing News.
一个重量级武汉官员，被开除党籍和公职。
a heavyweight Wuhan official who was removed from the party and public office.
新京报。
Beijing News.
武汉发热病例如何出城回到北京？湖北司法厅回应：正在调查。
Wuhan fever cases how to return to Beijing out of the city? Hubei Department of Justice responded: being investigated.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
教育部紧急通知：全国各地开学时间一览表！。
Ministry of Education emergency notice: nationwide school opening schedule.
上善教育。
Educate yourself well.
98岁天文学泰斗韩天芑感染新冠肺炎，孙女发求助消息。
The 98-year-old astronomer, Airman Han, has contracted pneumonia, and her granddaughter has called for help.
新京报。
Beijing News.
独家：湖北监狱回应“刑释离汉”问题；中央多部门联合出手调查。
Exclusive: Hubei prison to respond to the issue of "release from Han"; Central multi-departmental joint investigation.
北京知道。
Beijing knows.
广告。
Advertising.
今天 4:54。
Today at 4: 54 p.m.
武汉​吴家山第三小学，小学生设计防疫海报，啥情况。
Wuhan Zhangjiashan Third Primary School, primary school design immunization posters, what the situation.
说艺飞。
Say Yimei.
死亡率重症率双高，省委书记：加大问责力度，7处级防疫不力丢官。
Mortality rate is high, provincial party secretary: to increase accountability, 7 levels of ineffective immunization officers lost.
南方都市报。
Southern Metropolis Daily.
“肺炎1号方”已生产8万袋！184个病例治疗总有效率达94%。
Pneumonia No. 1 has produced 80,000 bags! The total effective rate of 184 cases is 94%.
河源晚报。
Heyuan Evening News.
武汉官媒：市长何错之有？为何不多给他暖暖心？。
Wuhan officialmedia: What wrong with the mayor? Why not give him warm heart?
中国企业新闻观察网。
China Enterprise News Watch Network.
红星调查 | 武汉“解封”3.5小时，究竟有多少人“抢跑”出城？。
Does Wuhan "unpack" 3. 5 hours, how many people actually "snapped" out of town?
红星新闻。
Red Star News.
日媒爆惊人消息：美国14000人并非都死于流感，有可能是新型肺炎.....？。
News of a media explosion: Not all of America's 14,000 people have died of flu. Could it be the new pneumonia?
常德女人。
A woman of constant virtue.
延迟复工再升级！这些企业不得于3月16日前复工！人社部明确工资发放+社保新政策！。
Delay the resumption of work and upgrade! These enterprises can not return to work before March 16! The Ministry of Human Services to clarify the wage distribution + new social security policy!
人力百科互助社。
Manpower Mutual Aid Society.
中小学生3月1日能开学吗？看看各省的开学时间就知道了。
Can the primary and middle school students start school on March 1? Look at the opening hours of the provinces.
师者。
The teacher.
冲破人民群众的层层包围，能从武汉到北京一定是“有故事的人”。
It must be a "story-teller" to be able to get from Wuhan to Beijing by breaking through the layers of the people.
火星方阵。
Mars square.
外交部：中国向日本提供抗疫情物资 今日运达。
Ministry of Foreign Affairs: China has delivered anti-epidemic materials to Japan today.
央视网。
CCTV net.
省教育厅：如3月2日疫情不允许开学 全省大中小学均采用线上教学。
Provincial Education Department: If March 2 epidemic does not allow the opening of the province's schools and colleges to use online teaching.
绥化晚报。
Suihua Evening News.
什么时候解封村庄封闭？解封时间来了。
When will the village be closed? The time has come to unseal it.
单县资讯。
Single County Information.
湖北监狱回应“刑释离汉”问题；中央多部门联合出手调查。
Hubei prison responded to the issue of "release from Han"; Central multi-department joint investigation.
新京报。
Beijing News.
她如何突破武汉封城返京？红星新闻实地探访离汉关卡，出汉需区级指挥部批准。
Wuhan how to break through the city back to Beijing? Red Star news field visits from Han level, Han need the approval of the district command.
开心的小鬼。
Happy kid.
为武汉加油手抄报内容图片 武汉加油暖心文字祝福语。
Wuhan refueling handwritten picture of the content of Wuhan refueling warm heart text toast.
大圣小伟说天下事。
The Great Sage says the world.
被困武汉的打工者：只剩3盒泡面的时候，我决定去找工作。
WUHAN MIGRANT: With only three boxes of noodles left, I decided to look for a job.
观察者网。
Network of Observers.
实录 | 专访张文宏：“关于零号病人，我只认证据”。
Special interview with Zhang Wenhong: "Regarding patient number zero, I only certify the evidence."
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
今天 04:32。
Today is 04: 32.
“封城期”离汉抵京女士引争议，到底有多少人离开了武汉？。
"Seal the city period" from the Han arrived in Beijing Ms. controversy, after all how many people left Wuhan?
荆楚视野。
Jing Chu Vision.
开学再次延期！各地开学时间及安排官方通知来了。
School starts have been postponed again! School hours and official announcements have been arranged everywhere.
CC学习。
CC learning.
武汉“解封”3.5小时，是否有人“抢跑”出城。
Wuhan "unpack" 3. 5 hours, whether someone "rush" out of the city.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
不松懈|口罩还要戴到什么时候？疫情还没有结束 不能放松警惕！。
When should I wear the mask? We can't let our guard down until the epidemic is over.
南宁新闻网。
Nanning News Network.
今天 02:59。
Today is 02: 59.
武汉宣布“出城令”无效：“慢半拍”和“快半拍”都不行。
Wuhan declared "go out of town" invalid: "slow half beat" and "fast half beat" can not be used.
红辣椒评论。
Red pepper review.
离汉抵京女患者因贪污获刑十年两获减刑，律师称其家境好有三套房。
Women arriving in Beijing have had their sentences commuted after 10 years of corruption. Lawyers say they are well off with three suites.
南方都市报。
Southern Metropolis Daily.
抗击预防新型冠状病毒手抄报 2020防肺炎疫情手抄报。
Fight against the new coronavirus handwritten 2020 anti-pneumonia report.
大圣小伟说天下事。
The Great Sage says the world.
再延期！全国34地开学时间汇总，分批开学或成最优解 ？。
Postponement! 34 places in the country to start school time aggregate, batch or into the best solution?
新学说传媒。
New doctrines and media.
20多城紧急“救楼市”，到底在救谁？。
More than 20 cities emergency "rescue housing market," who in the end?
畅吉闻联盟。
Good news coalition.
【秦皇岛市疾控中心提示您】（131）红外线测温仪对身体有害吗？。
[Qinhuangdao CDC Tips You] (131) Infrared thermometer harmful to the body?
秦皇岛新闻网。
Qinhuangdao News Network.
今天 04:06。
Today is 04: 06.
关于婚姻感情出现问题，往往还与自家宅子有莫大关联。
There is often a strong connection between marital problems and the family home.
日暮星运。
Evening star.
今天 04:13。
Today is 04: 13.
坐公共交通，找个靠窗位置。
Take public transportation. Find a window seat.
人民网。
People's Network.
昨天 03:32。
Yesterday at 03: 32.
横琴优惠宝的保额比达尔文2号还高？真相是......。
Does the Hengqin Bonus cover more than Darwin II? The truth is...
奶爸保险评测。
Mammy dad insurance review.
今天 04:34。
Today is 04: 34.
技术分享：Java异常处理十个案例。
Technology Sharing: Java exception handles ten cases.
千锋大数据开发学院。
Chifeng Big Data Development Institute.
今天 04:36。
Today is 04: 36.
护士抗疫微日记㉕｜气管插管是救治新冠患者风险最高的操作。
Milk nurse's anti-epidemic diaries turn out to be the most risky operation for patients with new crown.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
今天 04:49。
Today is 04: 49.
北京市新增新冠肺炎确诊病例1例 新增治愈出院14例。
14 new cases of newly diagnosed crown pneumonia in Beijing were treated and discharged.
e公司。
e Company.
今天 03:00。
Today at 03: 00.
中国世卫组织联合考察报告发布：新冠病毒中间宿主尚未查明。
Joint WHO mission report released: The intermediate host of the new crown virus has not been identified.
环球网。
World Wide Web.
今天 04:42。
Today is 04: 42.
是她！果断拦下云南省第1例新冠肺炎确诊病例 现场惊心动魄…。
It was her! The scene of the first confirmed case of Newly Coronary Pneumonia in Yunnan Province was breathtaking...
珠江网。
Pearl River Network.
今天 04:15。
Today is 04: 15.
为什么葡萄酒中二氧化硫不可或缺？。
Why is sulphur dioxide indispensable in wine?
红酒微讲堂wine。
Wine Red Wine Microlecture Hall.
今天 03:30。
Today is 03: 30.
钟南山：疫情首先出现在中国，疫情不一定发源在中国。
Zhong Nan Shan: The outbreak first appeared in China, the outbreak does not necessarily originate in China.
环球网。
World Wide Web.
疫情不一定发源在中国！钟南山重磅发声：有信心4月底控制疫情！。
The outbreak does not have to come from China! Zhong Nan Shan has a strong voice: Have confidence in the end of April to control the epidemic!
证券时报网。
Securities Times Web.
曾光：复工须严格 开展流行病学调查可及时研判应对疫情传播风险。
Zeng Guang: Resumption of work should be carried out strictly epidemiological investigation can promptly assess the risk of epidemic spread.
人民网。
People's Network.
昨天 03:49。
Yesterday at 03: 49.
朝阳通报11人聚集疫情：该单位未及时处置出现症状者。
Chaoyang notified the gathering of 11 people: the unit did not promptly deal with symptoms.
新京报。
Beijing News.
确认！离汉抵京者，来自武汉女子监狱。
Confirm! From Wuhan women's prison who arrived in Beijing.
郑州晚报郑州客户端。
Zhengzhou Evening News Zhengzhou Client.
作文展 ▏《最美逆行者》作文7篇。
Compositional exhibition "The Most Beautiful Reverse" composition 7.
小学生作文。
Elementary school essay.
服药需谨慎！武汉一女子未感染新冠，网购处方药过量服用被送ICU。
Wuhan, a woman did not infect the new crown, overdose of prescription drugs to be sent to ICU.
东莞石碣共青团。
Dongguan Shijie Youth Group.
今天 03:29。
Today is 03: 29.
外交部：韩日抗击疫情，中国不会缺席。
Foreign Ministry: Korea and Japan fight the epidemic, China will not be absent.
人民网。
People's Network.
她怎么出的武汉？有必要说清楚。
How did she get out of Wuhan? It's necessary to make it clear.
医法在线。
Medics online.
沪指失守3000点,机构建议坚定持有，抄底良机？。
Shanghai index lost 3000 points, the organization recommends holding firmly, the opportunity to copy the bottom?
远见财讯。
Fantastic Financial News.
刚刚！武汉宣布："出城"令无效！对相关人员严肃批评处理！。
Wuhan has just announced: & quot; & quot; & quot; quot; quot; quot; quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
证券时报。
Securities Times.
克力芝对新冠肺炎有效，印度第一药房无偿捐赠患者获嘉奖。
Kaletra is effective against Crown Pneumonia, and India's first pharmacy received a commendation for its pro bono donation.
健康生活-抗癌。
Healthy Living - Anti-cancer.
今天 03:47。
Today is 03: 47.
达川区教科系统开展新冠肺炎防疫知识专题讲座。
Tachuan District Education System to launch the new crown pneumonia epidemic prevention knowledge seminar.
达州新报。
State Newspaper.
昨天 01:53。
Yesterday at 01: 53.
科技抗疫 | 新冠肺炎CT辅助诊断系统援战一线抗疫医院。
AT & T AT & T & # 124; CT-Aided Diagnostic System for Newly Coronary Pneumonia First Line Anti-epidemic Hospital.
健康界。
Health sector.
今天 04:21。
Today is 04: 21.
哪几类人群是不适宜爬山的？。
What kind of people are not suitable for mountain climbing?
人道心悟性。
A sense of humanity.
今天 04:01。
Today is 04: 01.
中泰专家新冠肺炎疫情防控和诊治经验远程交流会召开。
China and Thailand experts in the new crown pneumonia epidemic prevention, treatment and treatment experience remote exchange meeting convened.
民生观察网。
Minsheng Watch Network.
今天 04:34。
Today is 04: 34.
如何选购床垫，怎样辨别床垫的质量。
How to buy mattresses, how to identify the quality of mattresses.
爱依瑞斯家居。
Eirius's home.
今天 04:00。
Today at 04: 00.
13天0新增！再有一天，就过了一个完整的潜伏期！疫情全球风险升为“非常高”。
13 days 0 new! Another day, a complete incubation period! The global risk of the outbreak rose to "very high."
新乡青年说。
said the young townsman.
今天 03:32。
Today is 03: 32.
湖北司法厅：正在调查武汉回北京新冠肺炎患者黄女士事件。
Hubei Justice Department: Investigation is under way in Wuhan back to Beijing Xinguan Pneumonia patient Ms. Huang incident.
第一财经。
First Finance.
湖北成立调查组彻查新冠患者离汉抵京问题！应勇批示：不论涉及谁，一查到底！。
Hubei set up an investigation team to thoroughly investigate the new crown patients from the Han arrived in Beijing! Yingyong command: no matter who involved, to find out!
每日经济新闻。
Daily economic news.
北京要求严格执行返京人员居家或集中观察14天。
Beijing requires strict home observation or intensive observation for 14 days.
新京报。
Beijing News.
提高宅家办公效率，应先做好两件事 。
To improve the efficiency of homestead office, two things should be done first.
广东范。
Guangdong Fan.
今天 03:43。
Today is 03: 43.
科学家创建手持式3D打印机  通过“生物支架”治疗骨骼肌损伤。
Scientists have created hand-held 3D printers that treat skeletal muscle damage with "biological scaffolds."
今天 03:51。
Today is 03: 51.
潍坊市中医院中医医疗专家团队深度介入全市新冠肺炎防治全过程。
Weifang TCM medical expert team deeply involved in the city's new crown pneumonia prevention and treatment process.
潍坊潮生活。
Weifang tide life.
今天 03:41。
Today is 03: 41.
加载更多。
Load more.
已经到底了。
It's over.
小狐找不到新闻了，请下拉重试吧～～。
Fox can not find the news, please pull down and try again.
热门图集。
Hot atlas.
钟南山：疫情不一定发源在中国，日本处理邮轮疫情办法失败。
Zhong Nan Shan: The outbreak does not necessarily originate in China, Japan's approach to dealing with the cruise epidemic failed.
日俄罕见意见一致指出：新冠病毒来源美国，如今已在全美大流行！。
The rare Japanese-Russian opinion unanimously points out that the New Crown Virus originated in the United States and is now prevalent throughout the United States!
李登辉确诊染，办公室最新回应“状态不是很好”。
Lee Teng-hui confirmed the infection, the office's latest response "is not very good."
钟南山：疫情不一定发源在中国，日本处理邮轮疫情办法失败。
Zhong Nan Shan: The outbreak does not necessarily originate in China, Japan's approach to dealing with the cruise epidemic failed.
日俄罕见意见一致指出：新冠病毒来源美国，如今已在全美大流行！。
The rare Japanese-Russian opinion unanimously points out that the New Crown Virus originated in the United States and is now prevalent throughout the United States!
一病例从武汉坐车进京，如何做到！？湖北...。
A case enters Beijing by car from Wuhan, how to do!? Hubei...
咳嗽声一片！美基地往日不再，请求白宫撤离。
Cough! The U. S. base used to stop asking the White House to evacuate.
她如何突破武汉封城返京？记者实地探访离...。
How did she break through Wuhan and return to Beijing?
漫威最美亚洲脸，一点都不比汪可盈差。
Manway is the most beautiful Asian face, no less than Wang Keying.
24小时热文。
24-hour heat.
第一个停飞我国的国家，如今被全欧洲隔绝，全程都处在...。
The first country to be grounded in our country, now cut off from the whole of Europe, was...
70万 阅读。
700,000 readings.
搜狐新社交产品内测倒计时，仅剩128个名额，速戳。
Sohu new social product inside the measurement countdown, only 128 places left, quick stamp.
140万 阅读。
1.4 million readings.
病毒刚开始爆发，邀请美国合研疫苗被拒，为何后来美国...。
The virus was just beginning to erupt, inviting the United States to research the vaccine was rejected, why later the United States...
16万 阅读。
160,000 readings.
美国武装部司令告急！承认出现严重问题，中俄行动让美...。
The U. S. Armed Forces Commander is in a hurry! Acknowledge the serious problems, Sino-Russian action makes the United States...
23万 阅读。
230,000 readings.
宁愿销毁发动机，也不向中国出口一颗螺丝钉，如今又要...。
Would rather destroy the engine than export a screw to China, and now...
15万 阅读。
150,000 readings.
搜狐号推荐。
Sohu recommended.
健识局。
Health Bureau.
达人有见识，君子有健识！健识局 深耕医药领域，权威政策解读、独家产业观察。
Talent has insight, gentleman has health! Health Bureau deep cultivation of the medical field, authoritative policy interpretation, exclusive industrial observation.
。
.
丁香医生。
Dr. Lilac.
专业、好玩、有态度。
Professionally, playfully and with attitude.
丁香医生，新一代大众健康媒体。
Dr. Lilac, a new generation of mass health media.
。
.
漫说健康。
Talk about health.
用漫画阐述健康，让医学也能性感起来！。
Elaborate health with caricature, make medicine also can sexy!
搜狐健康。
Sohu Health.
搜狐健康官方账号。
Sohu health official account number.
健康界。
Health sector.
为了更好的医疗健康服务。
For better health care.
联系我们。
Contact us.
返回首页。
Back to front page.
用户反馈。
User feedback.
免费获取。
Free access.
今日搜狐热点。
Sohu hot spot today.
6秒后。
In six seconds.
进入搜狐首页。
Go to Sohu Home.
今日推荐。
Recommended today.
进入搜狐首页。
Go to Sohu Home.
意见反馈。
Feedback from Parties.
账号密码登录。
Account number password login.
手机动态码登录。
Mobile phone dynamic code login.
请输入正确的登录账号或密码。
Please enter the correct login account or password.
下次自动登录找回密码。
Automatic login to retrieve the password next time.
注册。
Registration.
获取验证码。
Get the authentication code.
下次自动登录。
Automatic login next time.
找回密码。
Retrieve the password.
注册。
Registration.
安全提示。
Safety Tips.
为保证您的账户安全，建议您绑定手机号码。
To keep your account secure, it is recommended that you bind your mobile phone number.
请输入正确的登录账号或密码。
Please enter the correct login account or password.
获取动态码。
Gets the dynamic code.
收不到短信验证码？点击获取 语音验证码。
Unable to receive SMS authentication code? Click to get a voice authentication code.
安全提示。
Safety Tips.
系统出于安全考虑，在点击“发送语音验证码”后，您将会收到一条来自950开头号码的语音验证码，请注意接听。
For security reasons, you will receive a voice authentication code from the 950's opening number after clicking "Send Voice Authentication Code."
。
.
暂不发送发送语音验证码。
Temporarily does not send the voice authentication code.
手机注册。
Mobile phone registration.
邮箱注册。
Mailbox registration.
获取验证码。
Get the authentication code.
同意《搜狐服务协议》。
Agree to Sohu Service Agreement.
使用已有账号登录。
Login with an existing account.
try{console.log("执行成功")。
try {console.log; performed successfully and quot;)
title: "复盘疫情决策：医生、疾控、科研、行政分别做了什么",。
What & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & D; & D; & D; & amp; Administration & quot; & quot; & quot;
//adData_fd用于abtest。
/ / adData _ fd for abtest.
'<span><em class="icon err-js-icon"></em>JS加载错误，请重新加载。
& amp; apos; & ltd; span & gt; em class = & quot; icon err-js-icon & quot; & gt; & lt; / em & gt; JS loading error, please reload.
</span>' +。
Ritual; / span & gt; & apos; +.
'><em class="icon-cached"></em>刷新</a></div>';。
& apos; & gt; em class = 'class5' >; icon-cached & quot; & gt; & gt; / em & gt; Refresh & lt; / a & gt; a & ltd; / div & gt; & apos;;
console.error("发生错误",e);。
Console. error; & quot; & quot; e);
