名实不副地位太低——你可能不知道的中国疾控往事。
Fame is too low - you may not know about China's past.
季敏华莫杨。
Ji Min Wah Mo Yang.
八点健闻                      。
Eight good news.
八点健闻。
Eight good news.
看得懂的健康专业新闻。
Understandable health professional news.
当年国家疾控中心取英文名CCDC，是为效法美国，构建强大的中央公共卫生体系。
The National CDC was named CCDC that year to emulate the United States and build a strong central public health system.
然而，中国疾控从来就不是美国CDC那样的全国一体化组织。
However, CDC has never been a national integration organization like the US CDC.
在拥有3500个各级疾控中心、19万人员之众的四级疾控体系中，塔尖的国家疾控中心更像一个研究中心。
With 3,500 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention at all levels and a population of 190,000, the steeple's CDC is more like a research center.
地方三级中心归属各地管辖，国家疾控中心仅是业务指导。
The local level centres are under local jurisdiction and the National CDC is only an operational guide.
2009年新医改，曾有意让疾控系统承担基本公卫服务。
In the new health care reform in 2009, the disease control system was deliberately tasked with basic public health services.
疾控囿于科研机构基因，长于研究而不善政策执行，错过了一次拓展边界直透基层的机遇。
Disease control, confined to the genes of scientific institutions, is adept at research rather than policy implementation, missing an opportunity to expand its boundaries to the grass roots.
新冠疫情中，CDC耗资数亿、历经数年建成的直报系统，在早期近一个月未发挥作用。
The CDC's multibillion-dollar, multi-year-old direct-reporting system did not work for nearly a month in the early years of the outbreak.
下一步，改革势在必行。
Next, reform is imperative.
△ 中国疾控中心外景，纪勇摄坐落在京郊昌平的国家疾控中心，是一个平时不引人关注，而一旦关注就必有惊天动地大事发生的机构。
Outside the CDC, Ji Yong, based at the National CDC in Changping, suburb of Beijing, is an institution that doesn't normally attract much attention, and when attention is paid to it, there will be great changes.
在它成立仅11个月后，中国发生了震惊世界的非典；在它成立18年后，中国又发生了新冠肺炎疫情。
Only 11 months after its establishment, China has suffered from SARS, which shocked the world; 18 years after its establishment, China has experienced a new outbreak of pneumonia.
在过去一个月内，失责、只顾发论文、传言掌门人高福被调查……国家疾控中心（CDC）经历了成立18年以来公众最激烈的质疑和信任危机。
Over the past month, the National CDC has experienced one of the most intense public doubts and crises of confidence in its 18 years of existence.
不过，即便在质疑声最激烈时，一些有公信力的经济学家和专家，却站出来为国家疾控中心及高福发声。
But even at the height of the skepticism, some credible economists and experts came forward to speak out for the CDC and Gao.
2月27日，钟南山在一个新闻发布会上表示，此次疫情蔓延，是因为“我国CDC地位太低，只是卫健委领导下的技术部门。
On February 27, Zhong Nan Shan said in a press conference, the spread of the epidemic because "China's CDC status is too low, only under the leadership of the health care commission technical departments.
在美国，CDC可以直通中央，不需要逐级申报，甚至在特殊情况下可以直接向社会公报。
In the United States, the CDC can go straight to the center without having to file a declaration, even in special cases, directly to the Social Bulletin.
这是需要改变的，CDC的地位要提高，要有一定的行政权。
This needs to change, the status of the CDC to improve, with a certain degree of executive power.
”Play钟南山说出了一个对于国家疾控中心角色日渐清晰的认知——尽管受“国家疾控中心”这一名称的影响，公众一度认定它是重大疫情的吹哨人和第一责任人，但实际上，国家疾控中心名实不副，无论从机制还是从实权上，都难堪重责。
Play Zhong-Nam has spoken of a growing recognition of the CDC's role as the "national CDC," which was once considered by the public to be the whistleblower and first responder of a major epidemic, but in practice the CDC is poorly represented, both institutionally and physically.
国家疾控中心更像是一个研究中心，成立18年中，也曾有机会拓展边界，却因长于研究而不善政策执行，最终错过了转型机遇。
The CDC, more like a research center, also had the opportunity to expand its borders during its 18 years of existence, only to miss out on transformational opportunities, owing to its expertise in research rather than policy implementation.
疫情仍在胶着。
The epidemic is still gripping.
然而追寻中国疾控往事，筹划未来，已经开始。
But the search for China's past and planning for the future has begun.
“后来者”国家疾控中心从北京城区驱车一路向北，进入昌平界内。
The "latecomer" National CDC drove all the way north from Beijing into Changping.
过了大家耳熟能详的小汤山，再出了北京最大的环线北六环，驶入一条并不宽阔的东西向小路。
After everyone familiar with the Xiaotangshan, and then out of Beijing's largest ring north of the Sixth Ring Road, into a not wide east-west path.
路两边白杨树笔直向上，望去几无人烟。
The poplar trees on either side of the road were straight up.
初来此地的人，行在路中，往往一边寻思前路何在，一边又怕错过路口。
New arrivals, walking in the road, often while looking at the road where the road, but also afraid to miss the intersection.
蓦然间——中国疾病预防控制中心的大门就出现在路的北边。
Suddenly, the door of China's Centers for Disease Control and Prevention appeared just north of the road.
国家疾控中心坐落在昌平区百善镇一片55公顷的土地上。
The National CDC is located on a 55-hectare plot of land in Beshan Township, Changping District.
进入宽敞气派的大门后，豁然开朗。
Entering the door of spacious style, suddenly bright.
和门外淳朴的乡间气息截然不同，这里是经过了最专业规划设计的国家级办公科研园区­。
In contrast to the pristine countryside outside, this is the most professionally designed national office science park.
园区的设置，无一不流露出2003年非典过后，中央财政对国家疾控中心巨额投入的痕迹。
The establishment of the park, without exception, after SARS in 2003, the central financial commitment to the National CDC traces.
进入大门，走过几百米长的宽阔的主路，来到主楼跟前。
Entered the gate, walked hundreds of meters long broad main road, came to the main building.
有着挑高阳光大厅的灰色五层主楼，庄严，现代。
The five-storey gray main building with a sunlit lobby is majestic and modern.
主楼的西边是食堂和专家公寓。
To the west of the main building are canteens and specialist apartments.
主楼东南方，有一座小矮山，林荫茂密，沿着蜿蜒的小路可以爬到山顶小亭子。
South-east of the main building, there is a small hill, dense forest, along the winding path to the top of the pavilion.
山下有小湖，再往东行，暗红色的小楼依次排开，这是传染病所、病毒所、性病艾滋病中心等直属单位的办公楼、实验室。
Below the mountain there are small lakes, and then eastbound, dark red small buildings in order to open, this is infectious diseases, virus, sexually transmitted diseases and AIDS centers and other units of the building, laboratory.
楼间一些高大树木应是此地的“原住民”，而十几年前兴建时移植来的树木也已郁郁葱葱。
Some of the tall trees in the building should be native to the area, and the trees planted when they were built more than a decade ago are already lush.
△ 中国疾控中心外景，纪勇摄18年前的2002年1月，当国家疾控中心设立时，外界更习惯叫它的英文简称——CCDC（Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention），或称为“中国CDC”。
China CDC Location, Ji Yong She 18 years ago in January 2002, when the CDC was established, it was more commonly known as the "Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention," or "China CDC."
一个是在组织内、编制上存在的“中国疾病预防控制中心”，一个是公众口口相传的“中国CDC”。
One is the China Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), which exists in the organization and organization.
在很多熟识中国疾控往事的人士看来，当年之所以取英文名CDC，正是为了效法大名鼎鼎的美国CDC，雄图大略，励精图治，构建一个强大的中央公共卫生体系。
To many people familiar with China's past, the English-language CDC was chosen precisely to emulate the famous CDC of the United States, and to build a strong central public health system.
然而，除了名称完全一致，二者实质上的相同之处极少。
However, apart from their identical names, there are few substantive similarities between the two.
以至于多年来外界屡屡以美国CDC来要求中国CDC，而后者往往有口难辩。
For years, China's CDC has been repeatedly demanded of it by the US CDC, which is often inarguable.
与美国CDC不同，中国疾控从来就不具备一套真正的全国一体化组织。
Unlike the US CDC, CDC has never had a truly national integration organization.
作为中央一级的事业单位，国家疾控中心只是中国疾控体系中的一支。
As an institution at the central level, the CDC is only one of China's disease control systems.
换言之，它只是一个中心，如今拥有2000余名人员。
In other words, it is just a centre with more than 2,000 people today.
与之相应的，则是省、市、县三级的疾控中心，总计达3500余个之多，在全国拥有19万人之众。
At the same time, there are more than 3,500 disease control centers at the provincial, municipal and county levels, with a population of 190,000.
中央的这一级疾控中心，与地方上的三级总计3500个疾控中心，虽然都叫疾控中心，却有着截然不同的缘起。
The central CDC, along with a total of 3,500 local CDC's at three levels, are called CDC, but have very different origins.
整个疾控体系并非一个自上而下一贯到底的四级结构。
The whole CDC system is not a four-level structure from top to bottom.
国家疾控中心设立于2002年1月23日，是在中国预防医学科学院的基础上整合而来。
The National CDC was established on January 23, 2002, and is integrated with the Chinese Academy of Preventive Medicine.
中国预防医学科学院成立于1986年。
The Chinese Academy of Preventive Medicine was established in 1986.
它的前身，又是1983年卫生部报国务院批准设立的中国预防医学中心。
Its predecessor, the Ministry of Health in 1983 reported to the State Council approved the establishment of the Chinese Preventive Medicine Center.
国家疾控中心成立之初，就是卫生部下属的“全额事业单位”。
When the National CDC was founded, it was a "full institution" under the Ministry of Health.
所谓“全额”，是指由财政全额拨款供养，不许、也无需另行创收。
"Full" means to be supported by full financial allocation and no additional income is allowed or required.
因为是脱胎于预防医学科学院，底子里是个研究机构，其业务强项，主要是围绕重大疾病的研究、预防和控制。
Born in the Academy of Preventive Medicine, the foundation is a research institute whose business strength revolves around the study, prevention and control of major diseases.
如今中国疾控中心下属的几个大所和中心，就是围绕几大类型的疾病布局设置的，如传染病所（针对细菌性传染）、病毒病所、寄生虫病所、性病艾滋病中心、结核病中心、职业病所等等。
Today, China's Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) major institutes and centers are built around several types of disease distribution, such as infectious diseases (for bacterial infections), viral diseases, parasitic diseases, STDs and AIDS centers, tuberculosis centers, and occupational disease clinics.
2003年非典爆发，刚成立不到11个月的国家疾控中心备受关注，在病原体识别、疫情预警方面鲜有建树的疾控，因设立不久，并未受到过多指责，并迎来了巨大的历史机遇。
The outbreak of SARS in 2003, less than 11 months after the establishment of the National CDC, the focus of attention, in pathogen identification, disease early warning little success, because established, not too much blame and usher in a great historic opportunity.
非典之后，各级财政给予全国疾控体系巨额的预算投入。
After SARS, financial departments at all levels allocated huge budgetary input to the national disease control system.
2003年之后数年间，中央财政对国家疾控中心投入很大，投向除了全额预算管理所必需的“养人”费用，很多都化作了各种楼所、实验室、信息化网络和设备等基础设施。
In the years after 2003, the central treasury invested heavily in the CDC, investing in infrastructure such as buildings, laboratories, information networks and equipment, in addition to the "petitioners" necessary for full budget management.
国家疾控中心如今的昌平新址，正是在非典之后的2004年开工建设。
The National CDC's new site in Changping is now under construction in 2004, just after SARS.
此前，疾控中心位于北京二环内南纬路，占地偏狭。
Previously, the CDC located in Beijing within the Second Ring Road south latitude, narrow space.
办公室和实验室不分，甚至在楼道里做实验，根本达不到实验室标准要求。
Offices and laboratories, even when experimenting in aisles, do not meet laboratory standards at all.
更重要的是，南纬路旧址置于人口稠密的市区，存在毒种泄漏和染毒试验动物逃逸的隐患，因此决定迁址新建。
More importantly, the site of the south latitude road is located in a densely populated urban area, where there is a risk of leakage of toxic species and escape of experimental animals. It was decided to relocate to the new site.
首期工程2004年6月动工，总投资6.3亿元，总建筑面积7.6万平方米。
Construction of the first phase commenced in June 2004, with a total investment of 630 million yuan and a total construction area of 76,000 square metres.
至2008前左右，历经四五年的建设，中国疾控中心已具备如今的建制与规模，功能完备，水平已与2002年初建时完全不在一个级别上了。
By 2008 or so, after four or five years of construction, the CDC was now a well-organized, well-functioning CDC, not at the same level as when it was established in early 2002.
3500个地方疾控中心可溯至1953年与中央级的国家疾控中心——1983年方有雏形、2002年才正式设立、定位从预防医学科研逐步扩大到疾控——不同，省、市、县三级疾控中心的历史远为悠久，定位向来清晰，经验十分丰富，最早可溯及1953年。
Unlike the 3,500 local CDC centers, which date back to 1953, when the CDC was established in 1983 and formally established in 2002, and their orientation has gradually expanded from preventive medical research to disease control, the CDC at the provincial, municipal and county levels has a long history, a clear orientation and rich experience, dating back to 1953.
1953年1月26日，中央政府批准在全国范围内建立卫生防疫站。
On 26 January 1953, the Central Government approved the establishment of sanitary and epidemiological stations throughout the country.
从省一直建到每个县，两千余卫生防疫站很快建成。
From the province to each county, more than 2,000 health and epidemic prevention stations were built soon.
同期，爱国卫生运动发起，“灭四害”（当年是老鼠、麻雀、蚊子、苍蝇；后来麻雀成了益鸟，替换成了蟑螂）如火如荼，其大部分工作都由各地防疫站承担落实。
During the same period, the patriotic public health movement launched the campaign to "kill four evils" (mice, sparrows, mosquitoes, flies; later the sparrow became a beneficial bird and was replaced by a cockroach), and most of its work was carried out by epidemic prevention stations throughout the country.
各地防疫站是全额事业单位，人员工资、运营费用国家全包。
All epidemic prevention stations are full public institutions, and all personnel wages and operating expenses are fully covered by the state.
从上世纪50年代至60年代，举国上下的传染病大战此起彼伏，从鼠疫、霍乱到天花，再从寄生虫病、出血热到麻疹，一个个传染病都被控制乃至根除。
From the 1950s to the 1960s, infectious diseases raged across the country, from bubonic plague and cholera to smallpox to parasitic diseases, haemorrhagic fever and measles, all under control and even eradicated.
这些波澜壮阔的群众战争中，各地防疫站冲锋在前，出力最多。
These magnificent mass wars, epidemic prevention stations across the frontline, to contribute the most.
至上世纪70年代末，中国境内，绝大多数重大传染病已被荡平。
By the end of the 1970s, the vast majority of major infectious diseases in China had been wiped out.
与此同时，时代的巨轮滚滚向前，掀开了市场化经济的新篇章。
At the same time, the great ship of the times rolling forward, opened a new chapter of market-oriented economy.
市场化大潮席卷下，各地医院闻风而动，纷纷走上自我创收之路。
Under the tide of marketization, hospitals everywhere have been on the road of self-income generation.
一旦医院市场化，遂迅速波及同处医疗体系的各级卫生防疫站。
Once the hospital market, then quickly spread to the same medical system at all levels of health and epidemic prevention stations.
70年代末80年代初的防疫站，防控传染病的工作虽仍是主要职责，但因疫苗普及，各类传染病大幅得到控制，这一工作虽重要但已不紧要。
In the late 1970s and early 1980s, the prevention and control of infectious diseases remained the main responsibility, but with the spread of vaccines and the control of all types of infectious diseases, this was important but no longer essential.
和医院不同，防疫站没有诊疗收入，从哪里创收？在“给政策不给钱”的年代，各级防疫站不约而同，以疫苗注射为重要财源。
Unlike hospitals, epidemic prevention stations do not have clinical income, where do they generate income? In the age of "no money for policy," epidemic prevention stations at all levels coincide, with vaccination as an important source of finance.
在计划免疫免费疫苗还未开展的年代，民众需要接种的各种疫苗都经防疫站之手。
At a time when free immunization programs were not planned, all the vaccines that the population needed to be vaccinated were delivered through vaccination stations.
这一滥觞绵延不断，直到今天各级疾控仍在“经营”各种（计划免疫之外的）收费疫苗接种。
This epidemic continued until today, when disease control at all levels "operated" a variety of paid vaccines (other than those planned).
另一方面，当年卫生监督检查职能也在防疫站麾下。
On the other hand, the health supervision and inspection functions in the same year under the station.
卫生监督检查的范围主要包含食品卫生、环境卫生、职业卫生和学校卫生等。
The scope of hygiene supervision and inspection mainly includes food hygiene, environmental sanitation, occupational health and school hygiene.
有了监督、检查职责，也就有了执法权。
With the supervision and inspection functions, there is also law enforcement power.
在那个年代，尚未明确“收支两条线”，有了执法权，自然也就有了收入，这些收入即被“自收自支”。
In those days, there were no clear "income and expenditure lines," and with the power of law enforcement, there was a natural income that was "self-supporting."
至上世纪90年代中后期，防疫站创收之风愈演愈烈。
Up to the middle and late 1990s, the epidemic prevention station revenue generation wind intensified.
太平时期对传染病防控松弛，而疫苗接种、卫生监督检查反而成了主业。
During the Taiping period, the control of infectious diseases was relaxed, but vaccination, health supervision and inspection has become the main occupation.
至2000年前后，社会上已屡有质疑声浪，认为长此以往，防疫站已无存在必要。
By the year 2000, the community has repeatedly questioned the sound waves, that in the long run, there is no need for epidemic prevention stations.
防疫站是去是留？艰难整合：从卫生防疫站到疾控中心此时，中国卫生防疫界有识之士放眼望世界，已知美国CDC之声名卓著、强大高效。
Is it going or not? Difficult integration: From the sanitary and epidemic prevention station to the CDC, the Chinese people of insight in the health and epidemic prevention community look to the world and know that the United States CDC is famous, powerful and efficient.
成立于1946年7月的美国CDC，当初也是“起于寒微”。
Established in July 1946, the United States CDC, was also "at the beginning of the cold."
当年，美国爆发疟疾，东南边陲的乔治亚州系重灾区。
Malaria broke out in the United States and Georgia, on the southeast border, was a major disaster area.
美国CDC就是在乔治亚州首府亚特兰大发起成立，起初办公场所仅是“一栋小楼的其中一层”。
The CDC was founded in Atlanta, Georgia, and started as "one floor of a small building."
美国CDC归属联邦政府的卫生部。
CDC belongs to the federal government's Department of Health.
最初，CDC争取到了卫生部1000万美元预算，雇佣了不到400人，迅速投入疟疾大战中去，首要任务就是防止疟疾跨州蔓延全国。
Initially, the CDC secured a health ministry budget of $10 million and hired fewer than 400 people to fight malaria quickly, with the priority of preventing the disease from spreading across the country.
疟疾源头是蚊子，所以CDC的主要配备就是“三大件”：卡车、喷药器、铲子。
The source of malaria is mosquitoes, so the CDC's main equipment is the "three major": trucks, sprayers, and shovels.
消灭掉蚊子和疟疾之后，极具志向和眼光的CDC发起人Joseph Mountin，开始将部门职责扩充为所有传染病的防控，从此将一个“出身渺小”的部门不断扩容壮大。
With the eradication of mosquitoes and malaria, Joseph Mountin, the aspiring and visionary CDC founder, began to expand departmental responsibility for the prevention and control of all infectious diseases, expanding a "humble" department.
1947年，CDC以10美元的名义价格在亚特兰大购置15英亩土地（约合6万平方米），兴建办公和科研大楼，此地至今仍是美国CDC总部所在。
In 1947, the CDC bought 15 acres of land (about 60,000 square meters) in Atlanta for a nominal price of $10, building offices and scientific research, which is still the headquarters of the United States CDC.
在由疟疾防控向全部传染病防控扩容后，CDC与时俱进，开疆拓土。
By malaria control to all infectious disease control expansion, CDC with the times, frontier territory.
譬如，在全球对流行病学尚无概念之时，美国CDC已自发部署疾病检测系统，范围也从传染病扩展至非传染性的其他重大、多发疾病。
For example, in the absence of a global concept of epidemiology, the United States CDC has spontaneously deployed disease detection systems, extending from infectious diseases to other major, multi-hazard non-communicable diseases.
2000年前后，呈现在中国疾控界眼前的美国CDC，历经半个世纪的发展，已是一个庞然大物。
Around the year 2000, the CDC of the United States, which appeared before the Chinese disease control circles, was a giant after half a century of development.
其职能涵盖疾病防控、健康促进、突发公共卫生事件应急响应等三大类，技术先进、功能强大，雇员已有五六千人。
Its functions cover three broad categories: disease prevention and control, health promotion and emergency response to public health emergencies. It is technologically advanced and powerful and employs 5,000 or 6,000 people.
2000年，时任中国预防医学科学院院长李立明，正是对标美国CDC，提出发起设立中国CDC的构想。
In 2000, Li Liming, then President of the Chinese Academy of Preventive Medicine, was the initiator of the idea of establishing China's CDC.
在李立明牵头之下，国家疾控中心于当年筹建，立意高远，目光远大：疾控事业要向“大卫生”迈进，中国CDC要涵盖疾病预防控制、健康保护和健康促进三大领域。
Led by Li Liming, the CDC was set up in the same year with a high-minded and ambitious vision: the CDC will move towards "big health" and the CDC will cover three major areas: disease prevention and control, health protection and health promotion.
△李立明，国家疾控中心首任主任，现为北京大学公共卫生学院教授、博士生导师。
Li Liming, the first director of the National CDC, is now a professor and doctoral supervisor at Peking University's School of Public Health.
资料图。
Map of information.
2002年，在中央层面，国家疾控中心崭新亮相，李立明出任首任主任。
In 2002, at the central level, the CDC made a brand-new appearance, with Li Liming as its first director.
在地方层面，省、市、县三级数千个卫生防疫站也开始改制。
At the local level, thousands of health and epidemic prevention stations at the provincial, municipal and county levels have also begun to be restructured.
改制步骤，是陆续将卫生监督职能剥离，转而在各地卫生厅（局）之下设置卫生监督所。
The restructuring step is to gradually divest the health supervision function and set up health supervision stations under the health offices.
在不少地方，这一动作，将原防疫站三分之一的人员剥离了出去。
In a number of places, this action, the former anti-epidemic station a third of the personnel separated out.
其后，各地防疫站更名疾控中心，仍是卫生局下属的事业单位。
Since then, epidemic prevention stations everywhere have been renamed CDC, still under the Health Bureau is an institution.
至于是“全额单位”（全额拨款），还是“差额单位”（部分拨款，部分资金自筹），由各地卫生局自定。
Whether it is a "full unit" (full allocation) or a "difference unit" (partial appropriation, partly self-financing), it is left to the local health authorities to decide.
但大多数成为“全额单位”，由地方财政拨款供养。
But most become "full units," supported by local budgets.
各地防疫站转疾控中心后，在传统的“五大卫生”（传染病、职业卫生、食品卫生、环境卫生、学校卫生）之外，也逐步增设“大卫生”的新职能，比如慢性病（高血压、糖尿病和结核病等）调查和社区管理、妇幼保健、营养健康、老龄健康和健康教育等。
When epidemic prevention stations were transferred to disease control centers, they gradually added new functions to the "big health" category, such as chronic diseases (hypertension, diabetes mellitus and tuberculosis) and community management, maternal and child health, nutrition, health and health education for the elderly.
相较国家疾控中心，地方各级疾控中心更重执行和实操。
Compared with the National CDC, local CDC places more emphasis on implementation and practicality.
2003年至2008年前后，从中央至地方，“1+3”的疾控体系已经初步建立。
From 2003 to 2008, a "1 + 3" disease control system was initially set up from the central government to local governments.
绝大多数地方的防疫站已改为疾控中心，极少数未改的也在2010年左右改制完毕。
The vast majority of local epidemic prevention stations have been converted to CDC, and very few of them were completed around 2010.
在行政上，地方三级超过3500个疾控中心，分别归属各地卫生厅（局）管辖，人员薪酬、运营经费也由前者负担。
Administratively, there are more than 3,500 CDC's at the local level, which are under the jurisdiction of the respective local health offices.
因而，各地卫生厅局是各地疾控中心真正的“衣食父母”。
As a result, the local health offices are local CDC real "food and clothing parents."
在业务上，这3500余个疾控中心接受国家疾控中心的指导，然而——也仅是“业务指导”而已。
Operationally, the more than 3,500 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention are under the guidance of the CDC, but only "operational guidance."
同样在2003-2008年期间，“1+3”疾控体系也在不断演进。
Also in the period of 2003-2008, the "1 + 3" CDC system is also evolving.
整体上，中央层面的“1”动作较大，而地方上的“3”改变不大。
Overall, the central level of the "1" action is larger, but the local "3" change little.
在国家疾控中心，至少在形式上，已有将全部重大疾病预防控制纳入彀中的气象。
In the National CDC, at least formally, all major disease prevention and control are included in the meteorology.
中心虽仍以疾病科研见长，但亦积极建立各类重大疾病的防控实践能力，并进一步夯实覆盖环境卫生、职业卫生、营养健康、妇幼保健、老年保健、少儿及学校卫生、控烟、卫生应急等领域。
Although the Centre continues to be a leader in disease research, it has also been active in building practical capacity for the prevention and control of major diseases and in further consolidating its coverage in the areas of environmental hygiene, occupational health, nutritional health, maternal and child health, geriatric and school health, tobacco control and health emergency.
重金打造的＂合作＂：疫情直报系统这期间，在传染病防控主业上，国家CDC与各地疾控合力，逐步建立起疫情直报系统。
During this period, the National CDC worked with local governments to set up a direct reporting system for infectious diseases.
直报系统全称为“中国传染病与突发公共卫生事件监测信息系统”，民间俗称“传染病直报网”，始建于2003年下半年，2004年1月1日起试运行，4月1日起正式运行。
Known as the "Information System for Surveillance of Infectious Diseases and Public Health Emergencies in China," the system, popularly known as the "Communicable Disease Direct Reporting Network," was set up in the second half of 2003.
这是一个“纵向到底，横向到边”的网络直报系统。
This is a "vertical bottom to bottom, transverse to edge" network reporting system.
“纵向到底”是指，全国包括基层每个卫生机构在发现法定传染病疫情后，由诊断医生填传染病报告卡，然后直接通过该网络上报个案信息。
"Vertical bottom-up" means that every health institution in the country, including at the grass-roots level, fills out a report card on infectious diseases by a diagnostic doctor and then reports case information directly through the network.
该个案信息将直达国家疾控中心及国家卫健委，也同时到达该卫生机构所在的县、地市及省卫健委相关部门与疾控中心。
The case information will go directly to the National CDC and the National Health Commission, but also to the county, city and provincial health committee departments and CDC where the health agency is located.
“横向到边”是指，它覆盖全国各级卫生行政机构、疾控机构及所有的医疗卫生机构。
"Horizontal to edge" means that it covers all levels of health administration, disease control and all medical and health institutions in the country.
从而使得各级卫生行政机构、疾控机构均能在第一时间得到辖区内的传染病发生情况。
So that all levels of health administration, disease control agencies can be the first time in the jurisdiction of the occurrence of infectious diseases.
△2013年5月21日，江西南昌，国家、省、市、县CDC联合工作组开展H7N9人群血清学现场调查------流行病学调查问卷信息收集。
On 21 May 2013, Nanchang, Jiangxi Province, a joint national, provincial, municipal and county CDC team conducted the information collection for the H7N9 Serological Field Survey-Epidemiological Questionnaire.
图片来源：中国共产党新闻网。
Source: Chinese Communist Party News Network.
直报系统建成时，是为应对国家确定的甲、乙、丙三类近40种传染病的上报工作。
When the direct reporting system was established, it was designed to respond to the reporting of nearly 40 infectious diseases identified by the State in categories A, B and C.
所谓“直报”，也即任何一家联网医疗机构，由省及市，由县至乡，无论是大三甲医院，还是乡镇卫生院，一旦发现三类传染病中的任何一种，即可由所在医疗机构专人输入计算机。
The so-called "direct newspapers," that is, any network of medical institutions, from provinces and cities, from counties to townships, whether big tertiary hospitals or township hospitals, once any of the three types of infectious diseases is discovered, can be entered into the computer by the personnel of the medical institutions where they are located.
所有计算机经由专网连接，理论上，乡镇医疗机构发现的个体传染病例，无需百分百确诊（只需疑似）、无需申请批准，无需任何中间环节，即可通过这个24小时开放的直报系统，第一时间直达上级疾控中心，且即时直达国家疾控中心。
In theory, cases of individual infectious diseases discovered by township medical organizations need not be diagnosed 100% (only suspected), require no approval, do not require any intermediary links, and can be reached directly to the CDC immediately through this 24-hour direct reporting system.
2004年起，卫生部下发“不明原因肺炎”报告的规定，从此，在此前确定的近40种传染病之外，不明原因肺炎病例亦须上报。
Since 2004, the Ministry of Health has issued a report on pneumonia due to unknown causes. Since then, cases of unexplained pneumonia have been reported in addition to the nearly 40 previously identified cases.
直报系统的设计逻辑，在于打破层级，互通信息，裨使中枢与末梢无远弗届、时时相通。
The logic of the direct reporting system lies in the fact that it breaks down hierarchies, communicates information and makes the central and terminal parts unfathomable and consistent.
数年来，中国疾控的这套直报系统通过不断升级改造，已不断增强智能处理信息的功能。
Over the years, China CDC's direct reporting system has been continuously upgraded to enhance its ability to process information intelligently.
譬如，一旦某种传染病在系统中有时间或者空间上的聚集，系统即会自动触发预警信号，第一时间转人工进行核实和分析。
For example, once an infectious disease has an accumulation of time or space in the system, the system automatically triggers an early warning signal, which is first manually verified and analysed.
2003年至2008年，包括疫情直报系统在内的中国疾控体系，已基本完成布局：从中央到地方，四级疾控中心业数年来业已使用了大量财政预算。
From 2003 to 2008, China's disease control system, including the epidemic's direct reporting system, was basically in place: from the central government to the local level, the CDC-IV industry had already spent a large portion of its budget over the years.
从人员编制到运营经费，从硬件设施到科研软实力，从传染病防控定位拓展至大卫生，“3+1”疾控体系看似羽翼丰满。
From staffing to operating expenses, from hardware and equipment to soft power in scientific research, from infectious disease prevention and control to big health, the "3 + 1" disease control system seems to be plump.
2009年新医改，CDC错失转型机遇2009年，发生了影响中国疾控的一件大事。
In 2009, the CDC missed a transformational opportunity in new healthcare reform. In 2009, a major event occurred that affected China CDC.
而这本是国家疾控中心穿透基层的一次绝佳机遇。
And this is an excellent opportunity for the CDC to penetrate the grass roots.
这年3月17日，中共中央、国务院发布《关于深化医药卫生体制改革的意见》，是为中国新一轮医改的纲领。
On March 17 this year, the CPC Central Committee and the State Council issued the Opinions on Deepening the Reform of the Medical and Health System, which is a program for the new round of medical reform in China.
在《意见》框架性地提出医药卫生四大体系中，公共卫生服务体系，排名四大体系之首。
Among the four major systems of medicine and health, the public health service system is the first of the four systems.
公共卫生服务有两大领域：一是涉及公共卫生的日常工作，包括疾病预防控制、健康教育、妇幼保健、精神卫生、应急救治、采供血、卫生监督、计划生育等；一是重点工作，包括重大疾病防控体系，以及突发公共卫生事件应急机制。
There are two main areas of public health services: first, routine work involving public health, including disease prevention and control, health education, maternal and child health care, mental health, emergency treatment, blood collection, health supervision and family planning.
重大疾病中，既包括传染病，也包括严重威胁人民健康的慢性非传染疾病、地方病、职业病和出生缺陷等。
Among the major diseases are both infectious diseases and chronic non-communicable diseases, endemic diseases, occupational diseases and birth defects, which seriously threaten the health of the population.
在设计公共卫生服务责任体系时，曾提出在2009年-2011年三年间，首先落实“基本公共卫生服务”。
In designing the Public Health Services Accountability System, it was proposed that "basic public health services" be implemented first over the three-year period 2009-2011.
所谓基本公共卫生，初期指疾病预防控制、妇幼保健、健康教育等三大项，此为公共卫生服务中的“基本项”。
The so-called basic public health, at the beginning refers to disease prevention and control, maternal and child health care, health education, and so on, which are the "basic items" in public health services.
基本公共卫生服务身负“保基本”和“强基层”两项使命，在政策设计上身负厚望。
The basic public health service has two missions: "to protect the basic" and "to strengthen the grass-roots level," and has high expectations in the policy design.
为此，确立了极其罕见的财政保障机制。
To this end, an extremely rare financial safeguard mechanism has been established.
2009年，按常住人口计人均基本公共卫生服务经费标准不低于15元，此后逐年提高到69元。
In 2009, the per capita expenditure standard for basic public health services for the resident population was not less than 15 yuan, and has been raised to 69 yuan annually since then.
这是财政安排中极其罕见的“法定筹资”机制，意味着在不论需求的前提下，先行将资金筹集到位。
This is one of the rare "statutory financing" mechanisms in financial arrangements, which means raising funds in advance, regardless of need.
不是“事等钱”而是“钱等事”，决策层对此政策重视可见一斑。
Not "save money" but "money and other things," the decision-making level attention to this policy can be seen.
当时，卫生部曾有意让疾控系统来承担基本公共卫生服务。
At the time, the Ministry of Health had deliberately placed the disease control system in charge of basic public health services.
然而，疾控囿于科研机构基因，长于研究而不善政策执行，最终未能承担基本公共卫生服务的职能。
However, disease control is conditioned by the genes of scientific institutions, is good at research rather than policy implementation, and ultimately fails to assume the functions of basic public health services.
一来，自身强项在于传染病防控，更愿集中精力于优势领域；二来，妇幼保健、健康教育两项，当时看来边缘化而繁琐，为此增加的人头费起初不过15-20元，疾控缺乏新增管理职能的动力。
On the one hand, its strengths lie in the prevention and control of infectious diseases, preferring to concentrate on areas of advantage; on the other hand, maternal and child health care and health education, which at the time appeared marginal and cumbersome, initially cost only 15-20 yuan, and CDC lacked the incentive to add new management functions.
最终，基本公共卫生服务的管理职能，被委派给卫生部基层司。
Ultimately, the management function of basic public health services is delegated to the basic divisions of the Ministry of Health.
在基层司接手后，工作重点主要是部署城乡居民健康建档，重点涵盖高血压、糖尿病等慢性病，以及精神类疾病。
After taking over, the focus has been on the deployment of health profiles for urban and rural residents, focusing on chronic diseases such as hypertension and diabetes, as well as mental illness.
具体工作实施，乃由基层司每年将公共卫生服务经费，按人头总计，分解给基层的各个社区卫生服务中心，再由后者具体落实执行。
This is done through the annual allocation of public health services by the grass-roots departments to the community health service centres at the grass-roots level, where they are implemented.
逾十年之后的今天，老龄化、慢性非传染疾病已成为中国大健康医疗领域的头号挑战。
More than a decade later, aging and chronic non-communicable diseases have become China's biggest health-care challenge.
公共卫生服务，而今已与“健康中国”战略紧密连接。
Public health services are now closely linked to the "Healthy China" strategy.
而在国家疾控中心这一边，也错过了一次拓展边界直透基层的机遇。
And on the CDC's side, an opportunity has been missed to expand the boundary right down to the grassroots.
由此，它未能借势发展与美国CDC“疾病防控”类似的行政职权，尽管还保有一定的编制和经费，在职能定位上更加偏向技术服务与咨询功能，然而下无支脚，地位尴尬。
As a result, it has failed to take advantage of the US CDC's "disease prevention and control" executive powers, albeit with some staffing and funding, and a greater preference for technical services and advisory functions in terms of functional positioning, but in an awkward position.
新冠疫情后，中国疾控向何处去？此次新冠疫情中，中国疾控重点突破是在技术层面。
Where do China's disease control go in the wake of the new crown outbreak? The focus of China's disease control breakthrough is at the technical level.
病毒基因测序、病原溯源、病例检测、疫苗研制，一早即已铺开。
Virus gene sequencing, pathogen traceability, case detection, vaccine development, has been rolled out early.
国家疾控中心更是分派数批人员驰援湖北，尤其是在病毒检测方面着力，加速了病例确诊。
National CDC is to dispatch several groups of people to help Hubei, especially in the virus detection, accelerated the diagnosis of cases.
而疾控所受指摘，在于掌门人高福引以为傲的耗资数亿、历经数年建成的直报系统，在疫情早期近一个月未发挥作用。
The disease was blamed on the hundreds of millions of years of direct reporting systems that Gaofu prided himself on not working for nearly a month in the early days of the epidemic.
武汉当地医疗机构在发现早期疑似病例时，并未通过直报系统上报，而仍旧采取口头、邮件方式向卫健系统上级报告。
Wuhan local medical institutions in the early detection of suspected cases, did not report through the direct reporting system, but still take oral, mail reporting to the health system superiors.
由此暴露，在遇到不明传染病例时，一线医疗机构既无意识、亦无动力和技能使用直报系统，而这恰恰是最需直报“吹哨”之时。
As a result, front-line health-care providers have neither the awareness nor the motivation or skills to use direct reporting systems in the event of an unidentified infectious disease, which is precisely when direct "whistling" is most needed.
大疫当前，包括疾控界在内的社会各界，已在筹谋下一步。
The current pandemic, including the disease control community, has been planning the next step.
社会舆情之一，指出中国疾控体系长期投入不足，人才流失严重。
One of the public opinion, pointed out that China's disease control system long-term investment, serious brain drain.
致使遭遇此番大疫，各方面均猝不及防，初期失守。
As a result of this pandemic, all sides were caught off guard, the initial failure.
此种观点，将疫情中反应速度不及政策设计预期，归咎为投入不足。
This view, the response rate in the epidemic is not as fast as policy design expectations, attributed to the lack of investment.
中国疾控界内部对此多有呼应。
China's disease control industry to respond to this.
有关人才流失问题，已是数年来从中央到地方各级疾控中心不争的事实。
With regard to brain drain, it has been an indisputable fact that the CDC has been operating from the central government to local levels for several years.
人才流失，首要原因是预算不足，待遇低下。
The brain drain is primarily due to inadequate budgets and poor pay.
但是，从公开的各级财政公共卫生投入资金来看，“预算不足论”似乎并不成立。
But, judging from the public spending on public health at all levels, the "budget deficit theory" does not seem to hold.
无论是从“基本公共卫生投入”的“大疾控”经费来看，还是从各级疾控人员办公科研经费保障的“小疾控”经费来看，财政投入都远远高于GDP增速和财政支出平均增速。
Whether from the "basic public health input" of "disease control" funds, or from the various levels of the CDC office scientific research funding "disease control" funds, financial investment is far higher than GDP growth and fiscal expenditure average growth.
作为一个全额事业机构，疾控中心的人员待遇受到法定约束，自然无法和自收自支裁量权更大的公立医院相比，更无法与市场化的研究院所相比。
As a full-fledged institution, CDC personnel are legally bound to be treated in a way that makes them less comparable to public hospitals, which have more discretionary powers of their own, and to market-based research institutes.
有观点认为，疾控与其抱怨资源不足，不如积极选择向公共卫生的大领域靠拢，承担更多职责，争取更多资源。
The view was expressed that instead of complaining about inadequate resources, CDC should actively choose to move closer to the larger area of public health and assume more responsibilities and resources.
如今，公共卫生地位上升，应紧随“健康中国”战略，将地方疾控与中央整合，因应日益严重的老龄化、慢病危机。
Now that public health is on the rise, local disease control should be integrated with the central government, in line with the strategy of "healthy China," in response to the growing crisis of aging and chronic diseases.
如此，则中国疾控可能发展为一个覆盖一切重大疾病防控、将健康防线整体前移至广阔的公卫领域、兼具科研实力与行政能力的全新疾控体系。
Thus, CDC could develop into a new disease control system that covers all major disease prevention and control, moves forward the overall health defense line to a vast public health area, and has both scientific and administrative strength.
社会舆情之二，在于疾控的职能内在冲突。
The second social public opinion lies in the inherent conflict of disease control functions.
中国疾控体系学习借鉴自美国，但仅仅是形似。
China's disease control system is learning from the United States, but only in the form.
塔尖的国家疾控中心更像一个研究中心，利用疫情直报体系获取数据，优势在于科研而不是疫情防控。
The spire's National CDC is more like a research center, using the outbreak reporting system to get data, with the advantage of scientific research rather than disease control.
在中国的事业单位评价体系中，科研成果是巨大的“生产力”，可转化为职称、头衔和职务，最终是实实在在的收益。
In China's institutional evaluation system, scientific research results are huge "productivity," which can be translated into titles, titles and positions, and ultimately tangible benefits.
投入使用十数年的疫情直报系统，每时每刻均在捕捉搜集各地三大类近40种传染病病例，数量惊人。
For more than a decade now, the epidemic's direct reporting system has been catching and collecting an alarming number of nearly 40 cases of infectious diseases in three broad categories.
但在疾控体系中，这一大数据的最好用途，是被用作科研。
But in a disease control system, the best use of this large amount of data is for scientific research.
搜索学术期刊数据库，各级疾控中心每年产生的科研论文，不少于同级的三甲医院。
Search the database of academic journals, the CDC at all levels produce scientific research papers every year, no less than the same level of triple A hospital.
在最近的新冠疫情中，中国疾控掌门人的论文风波，其实也深深源于这一机构的基因：重科研而非公共卫生紧急处置。
In the recent outbreak of the new crown, the controversy over China's disease controllers is rooted in the agency's genes: heavy scientific research rather than public health emergencies.
而它的对标美国CDC，恰恰是联邦机构中极为强势的吹哨者，全国重大疾病的应急处置中心。
And its target, the US CDC, is the most powerful whistleblower in federal agencies, the national emergency response center for major diseases.
因此，在中国的政府架构中，对应急公共卫生的处置存在一定的职能冲突：部门立法的《传染病防治法》赋予国家卫健委官方吹哨者地位，卫健委依赖于国家疾控实现这一职能，而后者是一个科研主导的机构。
Therefore, in China's governmental structure, there is a certain conflict of functions in the handling of emergency public health: the Law on the Prevention and Treatment of Infectious Diseases of sectoral legislation gives the State Health Commission the status of an official whistleblower, which relies on the State CDC to carry out this function, which is a research-led institution.
另一边，本届政府改革的成果之一的应急管理部空有资源、经验和体制却无缘置喙，也缺乏相应的专业人士。
On the other hand, the Department of Emergency Management, one of the outcomes of the current Government's reforms, has no resources, experience or institutions, and lacks the expertise to do so.
造成在政府的传染病预警体系中，实际职能的落实存有缺位。
As a result, in the government's early warning system for infectious diseases, the actual function of the implementation is missing.
因此，疾控中心的职能配备和日常激励如何协调，是彻底导入应急事务管理体系，疾控退位成为专业咨询机构？还是成长为美国CDC那样的公共卫生领域的“应急事务部”，有待观察。
It remains to be seen, therefore, whether the functions and day-to-day incentives of the CDC will be coordinated through a thorough introduction of the Emergency Management System, the withdrawal of CDC as a professional advisory body, or its growth into a public health "emergency department," as in the US CDC.
社会舆情之三，是主张给予中国疾控中心更大权力，令其在行政、技术两方面均能贯穿到底，对其之下的三级疾控中心实施真正的管理。
Third, the public opinion is that China's CDC should be given more power to run the CDC through to the end, both administratively and technically, and exercise real management of the CDC under it.
与之对应，直接将疾控体系升级，从卫健委体系中剥离出来，设立独立的疾控局，实现条条的垂直管理，在卫健委之外自成一套行政体系，类似国家药监局体系。
Correspondingly, the disease control system will be upgraded directly, detached from the health care committee system, set up an independent disease control bureau, achieve vertical management of all the regulations, in addition to the Wei Bodyguard Commission, a separate administrative system, similar to the State Drug Administration System.
然而，中国疾控的“3+1”体系，有其历史成因。
However, China's CDC's "3 + 1" system has its historical causes.
此外，简单以单一垂直的组织管理架构，作为解决一切难题、推动改革前行的处方，也忽略了政府组织管理的复杂性。
In addition, the simple vertical organizational management structure, as a solution to all difficulties, to promote the forward reform of the prescription, but also ignored the complexity of the management of governmental organizations.
即便在一个垂直的行政管理体系之中，依然存在各级间的上下沟通、部门间的平行协调。
Even within a vertical administrative system, there is still up-and-down communication between levels and parallel coordination between departments.
而这个垂直的行政管理体系，亦须与其他政府体系沟通协调。
This vertical administrative system also requires communication and co-ordination with other government systems.
尤其是当遭遇新冠疫情这样的突发重大事件，必须以全社会的动员来应对，任何部门，哪怕是重中之重的疾控部门，亦无力单独应对。
Especially when confronted with such a sudden event as the New Crown Epidemic, the whole society must be mobilized to deal with it. No department, even the disease control department, can cope with it alone.
疫情过后，中国疾控体系将往何处去？决策层将以何种思维主导改革？改革又将如何具体实施？公众拭目以待。
It remains to be seen where China's disease-control system will go after the epidemic, what thinking will dominate reform at the decision-making level, and how it will be implemented.
无论如何，改革势在必行。
In any case, reform is imperative.
季敏华、莫杨|撰稿我们尊重原创版权，未经允许请勿转载。
We respect our original copyright and do not reproduce it without permission.
授权转载郑琪 微信号:1281949389商务合作上海：leslee 13916263824北京：Jessie 13911125922线索爆料、意见反馈，加入核心读者社群请扫码联系健闻君让朋友们看到你也在看↓↓↓。
Authorized reprint of Zheng Qi microsignal: 1281949389 Commercial Cooperation Shanghai: Leslee 13916263824 Beijing: Jessie 13911125922 Tells burst of material, feedback, join the core reader community, please sweep the code to let your friends see you, too.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
名实不副地位太低——你可能不知道的中国疾控往事。
Fame is too low - you may not know about China's past.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "八点健闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at eight.
var msg_title = "名实不副地位太低——你可能不知道的中国疾控往事";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; &
var msg_desc = "中国CDC更像科研中心，曾错过拓展边界的机遇";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; China's CDC is more of a research centre than it used to be. & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="八点健闻";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; eight.
