邢自强：复苏延迟，但不会缺席。
Xing Zhiqiang: Recovery delayed, but not absent.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
与2003年非典爆发相比，本次疫情的公共卫生应对举措更快更强，因此初期经济受影响较大，但随后的2季度和下半年可能复苏摄图/黎立文|邢自强鼠年伊始，春节假期出人意料漫长，此间心情却异乎寻常复杂。
While the public health response to the epidemic was faster and stronger than the SARS outbreak in 2003, and as a result the initial economy was more affected, the mood at the beginning of the year may have been unusually complex, with a possible revival in the second and second quarters of the year.
新冠肺炎来势汹汹，冲击了经济工商活动，最为悲痛的则是其对人们生命健康的威胁，难以估量。
New Crown Pneumonia comes aggressively, impinge on economic and commercial activities, the most painful is its threat to people's lives and health, incalculable.
我们为病患者祈福，期盼疫情能尽快受控。
We pray for the well-being of the sick and hope that the outbreak will be brought under control.
回到经济影响，笔者在去年11月开始做出的全球和中国经济小周期温和复苏的走势判断，目前看来因为疫情可能有所延迟。
Returning to the economic impact, judging by the modest recovery in the global and Chinese economic cycles that I started last November, it now looks likely that the epidemic will be delayed.
但从中期而言，基于传染病对经济冲击的历史经验，本次防控举措的特点，中国逆周期政策的潜在空间，以及全球目前所处的外部环境，本轮经济温和复苏的轨迹只是会迟到，而不会缺席。
But in the medium term, based on the historical experience of the impact of infectious diseases on the economy, the characteristics of the current prevention and control initiative, the potential scope for China's counter-cyclical policies, and the external environment in which the world finds itself, the path to a mild recovery will be late, not absent.
从短期来看，疫情对中国经济影响的高峰何时过去，以及全球产业链受波及的程度如何，可关注：1. 全国其他地区新增感染案例的趋势（最近一周似乎有企稳的迹象）；2. 各地行政部门和企业如何实施复工与防疫并举的进度；3. 每日的电煤使用量（可反映工业部门的产能逐步恢复程度）。
In the short term, when will the peak of the epidemic's impact on China's economy pass, and to what extent global industrial chains will be affected, be of concern: 1. Trends in new infections in other parts of the country (which appear to have stabilized in the past week); 2.
截至目前，这场病疫对1季度经济造成的已知影响估计可能在1.5个百分点左右，对全年的影响，则将视乎疫情持续长短。
So far, the known impact of the epidemic on the economy in the first quarter is estimated to be in the range of 1.5 percentage points, depending on the duration of the epidemic throughout the year.
但与03年非典爆发相比，本次的公共卫生应对举措比更迅速，采取的防疫措施力度更强，因此尽管初期经济所受的冲击较大，但随后的2季度、下半年复苏依然有希望。
But, compared to the SARS outbreak in 2003, the public health response has been faster and more robust, so that, despite the initial economic shock, the recovery in the second quarter and the second half of the year is still promising.
短期来看，疫情冲击之下，未来数月发布的经济指标会显著走弱，但拨云见日，基本面的一些因素并未改变，包括：首先，全球经济正稳步回升的基本面环境。
In the short term, the economic indicators that will be released in the coming months will weaken significantly under the impact of the epidemic, but some fundamental factors have not changed, including, first, the fundamental environment in which the global economy is steadily rising.
从2019年4季度开始，各种前瞻性指标都显示全球经济开始复苏，特别在制造业和外贸部门，以全球加权平均PMI为例，已经逐步回升到荣枯线50%，主要源于贸易摩擦的缓和叠加上各国央行的宽松政策。
Starting in the fourth quarter of 2019, various forward-looking indicators point to a recovery in the global economy, particularly in the manufacturing and foreign trade sectors, where the global weighted average PMI, for example, has gradually recovered to 50 per cent of the boom-bust line, largely as a result of easing trade frictions and adding to the easing of central banks.
主要国家央行已将政策利率下调至比2016年前还低的水平，发达经济体也采取了更积极的财政政策，此外贸易摩擦缓解也有助于企业信心恢复。
Major central banks have cut policy rates to levels lower than they were before 2016, developed economies have adopted more aggressive fiscal policies, and easing trade frictions has helped restore business confidence.
这些动力因素虽然受到了疫情挑战，但并未发生逆转。
These drivers, while challenged by the epidemic, have not been reversed.
第二，中国在本轮疫情之前，自身工业部门去库存较为彻底，工业品的库存变动水平处于三年以来的最低点，这是2016年5月以来的去库存周期导致的，特别是贸易摩擦之后，多数制造业行业加快了降低库存的进度。
Second, prior to the current epidemic, China had completely destocked its industrial sector, with the level of industrial inventory movements at its lowest level in three years, a result of the de-stocking cycle since May 2016, particularly after trade frictions, which accelerated the pace of inventory reduction in most manufacturing industries.
历史上，一般库存周期是两年半到三年多，本轮库存已经调整到了周期低谷水平，倘若外部环境不恶化，企业重新进入再库存阶段的可能性较高。
Historically, the general inventory cycle has been from two and a half to more than three years, and the current round of inventories has been adjusted to cyclical lows, with a higher probability that enterprises will re-enter the restocking phase if the external environment does not deteriorate.
第三，当前经济主要变量中，受疫情影响较大的消费，占GDP的比例为45%，与2003年的占比相仿（当时占48%）；出行旅游住宿等占GDP的1/6，也与2003年非典之前相仿，并不符合“当前消费和服务占比远大于2003年，因此冲击要大得多”这种猜测（这种说法忽视了中国外贸和固定资产投资的高峰是从2003年之后进一步大举起飞的）。
Third, consumption, which is more affected by the epidemic, now accounts for 45% of GDP, about the same proportion as in 2003 (48%). Travel, accommodation, and so forth, is similar to the pre-SARS period, and "current consumption and services account for a much larger share of GDP than in 2003." (This ignores that China's peak in foreign trade and fixed-asset investment has taken off further since 2003).
此外，如今的有利因素之一是线上消费，网购从2003年的几乎不存在，蓬勃发展到今天占社会零售总额的接近1/5，可能有助于部分抵消疫情对于实体消费的冲击。
Moreover, one of today's favorable factors is online consumption, which has grown from almost non-existent in 2003 to nearly one-fifth of total social retail sales today, which may help partially offset the impact of the epidemic on real consumption.
最后，历史规律显示，传染病对于经济的冲击都是暂时的。
Finally, historical patterns show that the impact of infectious diseases on the economy is temporary.
且本次的公共卫生应对举措比2003年更迅猛，采取的防疫措施力度更强，尽管初期疫情可能对经济的影响大，但一旦疫情稳定下来受控，被延迟的需求依然会有复苏，尤其是在工业生产和出口外贸领域，目前处于生产停滞，需求方靠库存消化的阶段，但一旦疫情受控有序复工，补回短期缺口相对较易，因为这些生产性行业有通过提升产能利用率和加班加点，来实现较快的复苏增长，实现补库存、满足积压订单的能力。
The public health response has been stronger than in 2003, and although the initial epidemic may have a greater impact on the economy, delayed needs will recover once the epidemic stabilizes, particularly in industrial production and export foreign trade, where production stagnates and demand is absorbed by stocks.
但一些短期损失难以被下半年的复苏所完全弥补，尤其在消费和服务行业，鉴于消费者的时间、偏好等约束，反弹力度可能难以完全对冲掉此前的损失，相关行业的企业面临的现金流压力较大。
But some short-term losses are unlikely to be fully covered by the recovery in the second half, especially in the consumer and services sectors, where the rebound may not be fully offset by time and preference constraints, and firms in related industries face greater cash flow pressures.
因此，货币和财政政策也需要辅以援手，包括首先在货币和信贷领域，可进一步降低LPR利率，定向准备金率下调，鼓励信贷扶持市场信心；其次可以在财政和税收为消费和服务相关行业减税降费、增加财政赤字、包括专项债，扩大公共开支。
Monetary and fiscal policies therefore also need to be complemented by support, including, first, in the areas of money and credit, further reductions in LPR rates, targeted reserve requirements reductions to encourage credit to support market confidence, and, secondly, fiscal and tax cuts for consumer and service-related industries, increased fiscal deficits, including special-purpose debt, and greater public spending.
以上是对2020年的小周期复苏会被延迟，但不会缺席的判断。
That is a judgment that the small-cycle recovery in 2020 will be delayed, but not absent.
长期而言，中国经济面临的挑战和动力并不会因为疫情而发生根本性变化。
In the long run, the challenges and dynamics facing the Chinese economy will not change fundamentally because of the epidemic.
长期增长取决于三个原动力：人力、资本投入和科技，这三个层面中国面临诸多挑战：人口红利减退甚至逆转；全球化的红利变成了逆全球化甚至脱钩；过去的城市化模式也面临医疗、教育、房价等挑战。
Long-term growth depends on three driving forces: manpower, capital investment, and technology, all three dimensions of which China faces many challenges: declining or even reversing the demographic dividend; reversing or even decoupling the dividends of globalization; and, in the past, urbanization patterns facing challenges such as health, education, and house prices.
但我们认为，中国也能通过吸取疫情暴露出来的经验教训，深化改革，来缓解这些挑战和风险，实现跨越中等收入陷阱。
But we believe that China can also mitigate these challenges and risks and meet the middle-income trap by drawing lessons from the epidemic and deepening reforms.
这个路径就是通过健全社会保障和公共卫生体系，来实现深度城市化，在挖掘内部人口转移向发达城市群的潜力，实现集聚效应的同时，提升城市治理能力；同时通过加大服务业和制造业开放、加强知识产权保护，保持对科技产业链的吸引力，避免科技脱钩，最后通过人民币金融市场的国际化，吸引外资流入，弥补储蓄率的下降。
This path is to achieve deep urbanization through sound social security and public health systems, enhance urban governance capacity while tapping the potential of internal population transfer to developed urban agglomerations, and maintain attractiveness to the science and technology industry chain by opening up services and manufacturing industries, strengthening intellectual property protection, avoiding decoupling of science and technology.
这也是笔者去年的研究报告《城市化2.0》的主要侧重点，疫情之后，依然不改变这些长期判断。
That is the main focus of my study last year, Urbanization 2.0, which remains unchanged in the wake of the epidemic.
疫情对经济工商活动的影响，尚可测算，其对患难的人们和亲友带来的悲痛，则永难估量。
The impact of the epidemic on economic and commercial activities can be measured, and the grief caused to those in need and their relatives and friends will never be measured.
我们期盼疫情能尽快受控，且跨越疫情的冲击后，进一步深化改革，来使城市化2.0阶段能坚实的推动实现老百姓更美好的生活。
We hope that the outbreak can be brought under control as soon as possible, and that reforms will be further deepened after the impact of the epidemic, so that stage 2.0 of urbanization can firmly promote the realization of a better life for the people.
（作者为摩根士丹利首席经济学家，编辑：陆玲）▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
(The writer: Lu Ling, chief economist at Morgan Stanley) Click here for more details about the outbreak: responsibility and accountability; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
邢自强：复苏延迟，但不会缺席。
Xing Zhiqiang: Recovery delayed, but not absent.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "邢自强：复苏延迟，但不会缺席";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Xing & quot; Xing & quot; Delayed recovery but not absent from & quot;;
var msg_desc = "与2003年非典爆发相比，本次疫情的公共卫生应对举措更快更强，因此初期经济受影响较大，但随后的2季度和下半年";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
