李铁：疫情之后，如何改进城市治理。
Li Tie: How to improve urban governance after the epidemic?
李铁。
Li Tie.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
由于一个城市治理决策的失误，造成了全国以及全社会的巨大损失，问题到底出在哪里？今后如何避免类似失误？文 | 李铁从1月23日武汉“封城”开始，全国城乡都一级响应，举国动员全面防疫。
What is the problem? How to avoid similar mistakes in the future? Starting with the Wuhan "closure" on January 23, both urban and rural areas throughout the country responded by mobilizing the whole country for comprehensive epidemic prevention.
虽然到目前为止，除重点疫区外，其他城市和地区的防疫情况都有明显好转，一些地方和城市的复工复业也在稳步有序地进行，但是一部分地方和城市仍存在着一定的风险和恐惧心理，仍然采取高级别的防控手段。
Although the epidemic prevention situation in other cities and regions has improved markedly so far, and some localities and cities have resumed work in a steady and orderly manner, some places and cities still have certain risks and fears and still adopt high-level means of prevention and control.
可以说，这是自1949年以来第一次因疫情引发全国总动员。
This is arguably the first time since 1949 that an epidemic has triggered a national mobilization.
由于一个城市治理决策的失误，造成了全国以及全社会的巨大损失，以至于到现在还没有从疫情灾难中解脱。
As a result of an urban governance decision-making error, resulting in a huge loss of the whole country and society, so far has not recovered from the epidemic disaster.
我们在继续进行防疫总动员的同时，是否要反思，我们到底做错了什么？或者说问题出在了哪里？很多人反思的时候把矛头对准了责任追究和公共防疫体系的缺失等，还有很多文章谈到了城市治理问题，谈到了城市规划问题，谈到了城市公共服务和话语权问题等等。
As we continue to mobilize for epidemic prevention, do we need to reflect on what we have done wrong, or what the problem is? Many people have focused on accountability and the absence of a public health-care system, and many articles have touched on urban governance, urban planning, urban public services, and the right to be heard.
其实我们有更多理由，通过这次疫情对如何认识城市问题作出总结。
In fact, we have more reasons, through this epidemic on how to understand the city's problems.
尽管我们已经生活在一个城市化高速增长的时期，在学习发达国家经验的同时，也走出自己独特的城市化道路。
Although we are already living in a period of rapid urbanization, we are learning from the experiences of developed countries while also moving out of our own unique urbanization path.
但是即使到了今天，我们似乎并没有认真研究过中国的城市问题。
But even today, we do not seem to have seriously studied China's urban problems.
未被重视的城市治理到2019年底，中国已经拥有8.48亿的城镇常住人口，城镇户籍人口约为6.2亿，常住人口城镇化率达到了60.6%，户籍人口城镇化率预计达到44.4%，两者相差16.2个百分点。
Unfocused Urban Governance By the end of 2019, China had 848 million people living in cities and towns, with a population of about 620 million, the urbanization rate of the resident population reaching 60.6 per cent, and the urbanization rate of the resident population expected to reach 44.4 per cent, a difference of 16.2 percentage points.
如此巨大的城镇人口，如此高速增长的城市化进程，按道理来讲，我们应该把城市作为国家治理的重中之重。
With such a huge urban population and such a high rate of urbanization, it makes sense that we should make cities the top priority of national governance.
但是到目前为止，我们不仅研究上远远滞后，而且和其他方面比，在政策操作层面上也缺乏系统性指导，至少我们在出台的政策文件中很少看到关于城市治理的系列性文件。
But so far, we have not only lagged far behind in research, but there is also a lack of systematic guidance at the policy operational level, at least not in the policy documents that we have produced.
比如，每年都会发布中央一号文件，作为指导农村发展改革的重要政策指导，但是相应却没有针对城市发展改革的文件。
For example, Central Document No. 1 is issued annually as an important policy guide for rural development reform, but there is no corresponding document on urban development reform.
当前中国国情已经告诉人们以下几个基本事实。
The current situation in China tells people the following basic facts.
一是城市人口占总人口比重已经远超农村，总量已经超过欧盟、美国以及日本人口的总和，城市经济占国民经济比重已经达90%以上。
First, the proportion of the urban population in the total population has far exceeded that of the rural areas, and the total population of the European Union, the United States and Japan combined.
二是中国的城市治理应该是社会治理的重点，而且可以通过城市带动农村治理。
Second, China's urban governance should be the focus of social governance, but also through urban-led rural governance.
因为中国城市化进程还在进行中，未来不仅仅要通过提升城市化质量，解决存量的农业转移人口市民化和落户问题，新增的城镇人口还会提高至少10个以上百分点，相当于还有几亿农业转移人口和农村人口需要进城落户定居。
Because China's urbanization process is still under way, the future will not only solve the problem of urbanization by improving the quality of urbanization and solving the problem of the migration and settlement of the stock of agricultural migrants, but also increase the urban population by at least 10 percentage points.
要解决他们在城镇生活面临的实际问题，问题重点在城市而不在农村。
In order to solve the practical problems they faced in living in towns, the focus was on the cities rather than the countryside.
另外，解决三农问题的关键也在于城市，在于城市如何接纳更多的农村人口，如何通过减少农民促进农业的适度规模经营，如何通过非农产业的发展来有效利用农村资源，如何促进城市资本下乡来带动农村发展等。
In addition, the key to solving these problems lies in cities, how to absorb more rural population, how to promote proper scale management of agriculture by reducing farmers, how to utilize rural resources effectively through the development of non-agricultural industries, and how to promote urban capital to drive rural development.
三是社会未来的风险指数已经从历史上的农村转向城市，也就是说，城市发生任何危机都可以影响到全国，武汉疫情已经让我们吸取了惨痛的教训。
Third, the risk index for the future of society has shifted from the historical rural to the urban, that is, any urban crisis can affect the whole country, Wuhan epidemic has let us learn the hard lessons.
而未来可能的危机不会仅局限在疫情上，经济和社会的风险无处不在，哪怕一件十分微小的事情都可能引发轩然大波。
And a possible future crisis will not be limited to the epidemic. Economic and social risks are everywhere, and even the slightest thing can cause a storm.
四是互联网用户接近80%都在城市，现代信息交流和舆论传播都以城市为载体，而新的技术创新也都是在城市产生，当然，最重要的技术变革也是通过海量城市人口的需求变化转化为应用。
Fourth, with nearly 80 per cent of Internet users in cities, modern information exchange and public opinion dissemination are taking cities as carriers, and new technological innovations are taking place in cities, although the most important technological change is also being translated into applications through changes in the needs of large urban populations.
五是未来就业的重点也是在城市。
Fifth, the focus of future employment is also in cities.
各类不同规模的工业和服务业的发展依赖于城市，也给国家和城市创造了税收。
The development of industries and services of all sizes depends on cities and generates tax revenues for countries and cities.
如何适应产业的发展，适合于不同人口就业的需求，如何发挥不同规模城市的作用，已经是摆在我们面前亟需解决的问题。
How to adapt to the development of industry, to the employment needs of different populations, how to play the role of cities of different sizes has become an urgent problem before us.
城市治理不等于地方治理中国的城市不同于欧美发达国家，以及被这些国家的文明体系影响的一些东亚国家。
Urban governance is not the same as local governance in China's cities are different from the developed countries in Europe and the United States, and some East Asian countries affected by their civilizational systems.
我们长期以来看重的城市治理，偏重于作为国家治理体系中地方治理的一个重要组成部分，整体来看，城市治理体系是自上而下一贯到底的模式，大前提是服从于国家治理的需要。
Urban governance, which we have long valued as an important component of local governance in national governance systems, is, on the whole, a top-down, bottom-up model, premised largely on the need for national governance.
现实中，自上而下的指令虽然在一定程度上被市场所代替，但是在很多方面——无论是经济还是社会管理，传统计划经济管理方式仍在以不同的形式影响着国家治理体系，进而影响到城市政策的贯彻和落实。
In reality, top-down directives have been replaced to some extent by the market, but in many ways - whether economic or social - traditional planned-economy management continues to influence national governance systems in different ways, thereby affecting the implementation and enforcement of urban policies.
所以城市的管理者往往更看重的是上级政府的要求，而严重弱化了自身对经济社会发展问题的实际解决能力。
Therefore, the managers of cities tend to put more emphasis on the requirements of higher government and seriously weaken their ability to solve the problems of economic and social development.
基于上面的认识，就可以理解为什么大部分城市管理者在面对问题的时候，首先考虑的是上级政府的要求。
Based on the above understanding, we can understand why most urban managers when faced with problems, the first consideration is the request of higher-level government.
而在强化担责的治理体系中，出于所谓的不担责心态，偏好于按照上级政府的意见执行，或者是学习上级政府的经验和做法，认为起码这样不会出现大的问题。
But in the system of governance with strengthened responsibility, out of the so-called non-responsibility mentality, prefer to follow the advice of higher-level government, or learn from the experience and practices of higher-level governments, at least so as not to cause major problems.
如果一般性的日常工作中遵从这样的做法，维持城市经济和社会的正常运转没什么问题，但是一旦突发性事件发生，则可能大大耽误解决问题的最佳时机。
It is not a problem to maintain the normal functioning of the urban economy and society if such practices are followed in the ordinary course of daily work, but the best time to resolve problems can be greatly delayed by sudden events.
中国目前已经是世界第二大经济体，国家治理体系不仅要适应经济增长的变化，而且更应该重视城市化、城市经济和社会治理内容的变化。
China is now the world's second-largest economy, and the governance system should not only adapt to changes in economic growth, but also pay more attention to changes in urbanization, urban economy and social governance.
研究城市问题不能只停留在地方治理的理念，而是应该把城市当作一个人口和要素高度集聚的经济社会单元，来考虑城市治理的特殊性。
The study of urban problems should not be limited to the concept of local governance, but should consider cities as an economic and social unit with a high concentration of population and factors, taking into account the particularities of urban governance.
城市治理不只是城市建设回顾1949年来的历史，我们研究城市问题的出发点曾经出现过很多变化，从工业化发展的重要载体，到农产品的供给是否能够保证城市的需求。
Urban Governance is More than Urban ConstructionLooking back at the history since 1949, the starting point for our study of urban problems has undergone many changes, from the important carrier of industrial development to whether the supply of agricultural products can guarantee the demand of cities.
上世纪80年代后，城市改革的重点是国企改革，之后地方则进入了轰轰烈烈的大搞城市建设时代。
After the 1980s, the focus of urban reform was on the reform of state-owned enterprises, and then the local areas entered the era of vigorous urban construction.
我记得上世纪90年代我们到地方城市调研，几乎所有地方政府的官员，他们对城市化的理解就是建设，招商引资。
I remember when we visited local cities in the 1990s and almost all local government officials understood urbanization to mean building and attracting investment.
在他们的工作安排中，城市化涉及的人口公共服务问题，在政府的议程中往往不及建设和招商引资重要。
In their organization of work, the issue of public services for the population involved in urbanization is often less important on the Government's agenda than building and attracting investment.
进入21世纪，中国城市的发展重点变成了房地产，原因在于，来源于房地产的收益可以解决地方政府的各种开支需求。
In the 21st century, the focus of China's urban growth has shifted to real estate, because the proceeds from real estate can meet the various spending needs of local governments.
围绕着房地产发展，城市又进行了新一轮的开发和建设，城市形象发生了翻天覆地的变化。
Around the development of real estate, the city has a new round of development and construction, the image of the city has undergone tremendous changes.
但是涉及到人的问题，涉及到城市居民需求的公共服务问题，涉及到城市外来人口的问题，虽然在中央宏观政策中经常提出各种要求，但是在城市落实的具体层面上，仍然让位于城市建设、土地出让以及招商引资等。
But when it comes to people, public services related to the needs of urban residents, the problems of the urban migrant population, and although requirements are often raised in the central macro-economic policies, concrete aspects of urban implementation still give way to urban construction, land concessions and investment promotion.
实际上十分清楚，目前的地方债务大多是因城市房地产过度开发和城市建设铺的摊子过大所致。
In fact, it is clear that most of the current local debt is due to excessive urban real estate development and urban construction of the stalls are too large.
但是从深层次的角度追寻产生城市债务的原因，或者是探究由城市而产生的各种需要解决的体制性问题，至今仍未被作为研究的重点。
However, it has not been the focus of research to find out the causes of urban debt in a deep-seated way or to explore the various institutional problems that need to be solved by the cities.
经济学家们并不热衷于研究城市，因为研究宏观的金融、货币、财政和企业政策显得更为高大上，而且这些体现国家话语权的参政议政思路，更为符合舶来的理论体系。
Economists are not keen on studying cities, because macro-financial, monetary, fiscal, and corporate policies have gained in stature, and these ideas, which embody the state's voice, are more in line with the imported theoretical system.
对于城市管理者来说，既然在城市层面上探讨不了所谓的更为宏观的经济社会问题，从自身的角度和立场出发，研究城市发展中迫切需要解决的现实利益问题，可能是更为实际的选择。
For urban managers, since the so-called macro-economic and social issues cannot be explored at the city level, it may be more practical to study, from their own point of view and standpoint, the real interests that need to be urgently addressed in urban development.
最能够保证城市利益的是城市规划。
Urban planning is the best guarantee of urban benefits.
因为所有的城市建设和空间资源的安排，包括房地产建设等，都要必须要有规划。
Because all urban construction and the arrangement of space resources, including real estate construction, must have a plan.
正因为如此，城市问题被视之为技术问题，成为了规划设计图纸的问题，以及一些迫切需要解决的局部性问题，诸如交通、社区治理、治安问题等等。
As such, urban issues are seen as technical issues, problems with planning and design drawings, and local issues that need to be addressed urgently, such as transportation, community governance, policing issues, etc.
正是由于各种现实因素的组合，使得各方对城市的认知或者研究，在现行体制下更偏重于技术，而偏离了经济社会全面发展和以人民为中心的主轴。
It is the combination of various practical factors that has led to a shift in the perception or study of cities towards technology under the current system, away from the overall economic and social development and the people-centred axis.
由于认知和研究的严重滞后，导致了一些城市管理者长期以来重视物质建设，而忽视了对软环境的塑造，使得公共服务资源严重缺失。
Due to the serious lag of cognition and research, some city administrators pay attention to the material construction for a long time, neglecting to shape the soft environment, so that the public service resources are seriously lacking.
恰恰在当今城市化高速发展的中国，与人口和城镇居民有关的各种直接需求，才是影响到经济社会发展出现各种问题的直接诱因。
It is precisely in today's rapidly urbanizing China that the direct demand related to population and urban residents is the direct cause of various problems affecting economic and social development.
而这种小小的诱因，哪怕是一两个传染性疾病的扩散，就可以变成影响全国及世界的巨大社会危机。
And this small incentive, even the spread of one or two infectious diseases, can become a huge social crisis affecting the entire country and the world.
未来要提高城市治理水平，还是在于提升对“城市”及“人”的认知，在于如何解决公共服务资源供给严重不足的问题，在于建立以人民为中心的社会治理体系。
Whether to improve the level of urban governance in the future lies in raising the awareness of "cities" and "people," how to solve the serious shortage of public service resources, and how to build a people-centred system of social governance.
重新认识城市治理历史的重复往往不是在同一个轨迹上，可能因人而引发的经济社会风险，不仅仅限于在这次疫情，或许还潜藏在其他多个方面。
Reconsideration of the history of urban governance is often not on the same track, and the economic and social risks that may arise from human beings are not limited to this outbreak, but may also lurk in many other areas.
这次疫情我们的提醒是，从直接原因看，要重视对传染病的防控，建立更有效的防疫体系；从社会舆论看，要允许社会有透明的信息传递渠道，防止人为因素和行政管理的体制性因素妨碍突发性公共事件的应对。
The immediate cause of the outbreak is to attach importance to the prevention and control of infectious diseases and to establish a more effective epidemic prevention system. In the view of public opinion, society should be allowed to have transparent channels for the transmission of information, and human and administrative institutional factors should be prevented from hindering the response to sudden public events.
但是从更深的角度去挖掘，我们真的了解城市问题吗？对这么多千万人口、几百万人口的超大城市和特大城市的发展中可能发生的经济社会问题，我们有从各种治理体制的层面上做过更为深刻的反思吗？我们延续了几千年的国家对地方治理的传统结构，是否需要适应城市化进程而有所转变？我们是否需要开始认真反思传统的地方治理方式与现代城市治理方式的本质区别？反思这次疫情以极快的速度从一个城市扩散到全国，最重要的原因是人口大规模地流动，这其实已经超出了医学的范畴，但这只是城市问题的一个方面。
Do we really understand the economic and social problems that may arise in the development of so many millions of people, of mega-cities and mega-cities? Do we need to reflect on whether the traditional structures of local governance have changed rapidly from one city to another?
疫情未来还可能影响到上亿人的就业问题，可能涉及到他们生活质量改善和提高的问题，涉及到千万个中小企业的生存问题，涉及到如何区分公共信息传播中的真实信息和谣言的问题等等。
The epidemic is also likely to affect the employment of hundreds of millions of people in the future, possibly in terms of improving and improving their quality of life, the survival of tens of millions of small and medium-sized enterprises, how to distinguish between real information in the dissemination of public information and rumours, etc.
整体而言，疫情对我们脆弱的城市化进程是一次严峻考验。
Overall, the epidemic is a severe test of our fragile urbanization process.
放在中国的城市化进程的大背景下，必须从更多方面，以及更为全面的角度来反思疫情，重新认识城市治理中所存在的各种体制性问题，研究中国城市发展中独特的轨迹和规律。
In the background of China's urbanization process, we must reflect on the epidemic from a more comprehensive perspective, re-understand the various institutional problems in urban governance, and study the unique trajectories and laws of urban development in China.
同时，总结国际经验，研究如何把城市问题作为国家经济和社会治理的重中之重，探寻更符合国情并适应现代社会发展需要的城市化路径，我想这次应该是一次挑战和机遇。
At the same time, I think this should be a challenge and an opportunity to take stock of international experiences, examine how to make urban issues a top priority of national economic and social governance, and explore urbanization paths that are better suited to national conditions and to the development needs of modern societies.
作者为中国城市和小城镇改革发展中心首席经济学家；编辑：朱弢▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
The writer is a chief economist with the Center for Reform and Development of Chinese Cities and Small Towns. Taoho, editor: Taoho Tao, has more responsibility for reporting outbreaks. Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
李铁：疫情之后，如何改进城市治理。
Li Tie: How to improve urban governance after the epidemic?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "李铁：疫情之后，如何改进城市治理";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Li: How to improve urban governance after the epidemic;;
var msg_desc = "由于一个城市治理决策的失误，造成了全国以及全社会的巨大损失，问题到底出在哪里？今后如何避免类似失误？";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
