新冠疫情蔓延六大洲，世卫密切监测新进展。
The new outbreak has spread to six continents, and WHO is closely monitoring new developments.
金焱。
Yan, Jin.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
目前包括中国大陆在内，全球已经有41个国家和地区出现了疫情，其中，韩国是中国大陆之外疫情蔓延最快的国家。
At present, including China, 41 countries and regions have been affected by the epidemic, including the Republic of Korea, which is the fastest-spreading country outside mainland China.
尽管如此，世卫组织不希望在“没有谨慎和清晰地分析事实情况之前”仓促宣布疫情为全球“大流行病”文 |《财经》特派记者金焱发自华盛顿 编辑 | 苏琦新型冠状病毒疫情继续在全世界蔓延，世界卫生组织总干事谭德塞当地时间2月25日表示，在中国之外，目前全球共有37个国家报告了2790例确诊病例，其中44人死亡。
However, WHO does not want to rush to declare the outbreak a global pandemic without "careful and clear analysis of the facts." Yan Jin, a Suqi reporter from Washington, D.C., continues to spread all over the world, with 37 countries reporting 2,790 confirmed cases, 44 of them fatal, outside China, WHO Director General Tan Desser said Tuesday.
2月26日，中国境外报告的新增病例数量首次超过了中国境内。
On February 26, the number of new cases reported outside China surpassed that in China for the first time.
中国以外，不仅意大利、伊朗及韩国的患者数量突然激增，疫情在这些引发新关切的国家四处扩散，与伊朗相关的病例已输入巴林、伊拉克、科威特和阿曼，与意大利相关联的病例则已经输入阿尔及利亚、奥地利、克罗地亚、德国、西班牙和瑞士。
Outside China, not only has there been a sudden surge in the number of patients in Italy, Iran, and South Korea, the epidemic is spreading in these countries of new concern, Iran-related cases have been imported into Bahrain, Iraq, Kuwait, and Oman, and Italian-linked cases have been imported into Algeria, Austria, Croatia, Germany, Spain, and Switzerland.
巴西政府在当地时间2月26日确认了首例病例，此时正值巴西狂欢节期间。
The first case was confirmed by the Government of Brazil on 26 February local time, during the Carnival in Brazil.
61岁的巴西男子因前往意大利北部伦巴第地区出差，而成为南美洲出现的首位感染者。
A 61-year-old Brazilian man became the first infected person in South America after traveling to the Lombardy region in northern Italy.
这名男子2月21日乘飞机返回圣保罗，随后在家中接触了约30名家人，机上乘客以及他的家人目前都在接受观察。
The man returned to São Paulo by plane on 21 February and then contacted some 30 family members at his home, where the passengers and his family are currently under observation.
这名男子目前情况稳定，在圣保罗的家中隔离。
The man is now in stable condition and is isolated in his home in Sao Paulo.
巴西之外，格鲁吉亚、巴基斯坦等国近日也报告了首例新冠肺炎病例。
In addition to Brazil, Georgia, Pakistan and other countries have recently reported the first new cases of pneumonia.
美国宾夕法尼亚大学佩雷尔曼医学院的Schaeffer医学教授和高级医学实践助理院长、宾州卓越医疗服务执行总裁杰克·恩迪（Jack Ende）对《财经》记者说,，新冠肺炎疫情可能很快就成为“大流行病”，这是全球医学界要面对的一场“完美风暴”。
The outbreak could soon become a "pandemic," a "perfect storm" for the global medical community, said Jack Ende, a professor of medicine and assistant dean of senior medical practice at the University of Pennsylvania's Perelman School of Medicine.
恩迪之所以如此推断，他指出，首先是因为，“我们除隔离外，没有其他预防策略，比如疫苗。
Endy reasoned that, first of all, because "we have no prevention strategies other than isolation, such as vaccines."
另外也没有及时、早期检测发现病毒的手段，且我们不了解病毒传播所需的全部知识，包括无症状期传播的可能性；目前尚无针对新冠病毒对人体器官系统造成损伤的具体疗法，只能靠医生和医疗机构提供支持治疗来应对；最后，我们仍然没有动物模型来测试如何治疗和检测新冠病毒，动物模型的缺乏阻碍了我们在免疫，早期发现和治疗领域迅速推进的能力。
There is also a lack of timely and early detection of the means to detect viruses, and we do not know the full range of knowledge needed to spread the virus, including the possibility of asymptomatic transmission; there is no specific treatment for damage to human organ systems that can only be countered by supportive treatment by doctors and medical institutions.
”为应对“大流行病”做准备中国疫情趋缓的同时，亚洲、欧洲和中东地区的疫情却在快速蔓延。
While China's epidemic is slowing in preparation for a "pandemic," outbreaks are spreading rapidly in Asia, Europe and the Middle East.
据最新统计，目前包括中国大陆在内，全球已经有41个国家和地区出现了疫情，其中，韩国是中国大陆之外疫情蔓延最快的国家。
According to the latest statistics, 41 countries and regions have been affected, including China. South Korea is the fastest-spreading country outside mainland China.
据韩联社报道，韩国疾病管理本部2月27日通报称，当地时间26日16时至27日9时，韩国新增334例新冠肺炎确诊病例，累计确诊1595例。
From 1600 to 0900 hours local time on February 26, the Republic of Korea established 334 new cases of coronary pneumonia, a cumulative total of 1,595 cases, the agency reported.
26日，韩国国会表决通过三项法案修订案，包括《传染病防治管理法》《检疫法》和《医疗法》。
On February 26, the National Assembly voted to pass amendments to three bills, including the Infectious Diseases Control Act, the Quarantine Act and the Medical Care Act.
韩国国会表示，希望上述法案修订案能为防控新冠肺炎疫情提供司法保障，并进一步提高国家防疫应对能力。
South Korea's parliament says it hopes the bill's amendments will provide judicial safeguards against the outbreak of pneumonia and further improve the country's ability to respond to the epidemic.
目前，韩国政府已将疫情预警上调至最高级别的“严重”，并实施关于集体活动、利用公共设施的指南修订案，建议民众暂停聚集在室内或是在人群密集的户外举行活动，也尽量避免聚餐、旅游等私人聚会和活动。
The South Korean government has raised its epidemic alert to the highest level of "severity" and implemented revised guidelines on group activities and access to public facilities, recommending that people stop gathering indoors or in crowded outdoor activities, and avoid private gatherings and activities such as meals and tours.
尽管如此，世卫组织不希望在“没有谨慎和清晰地分析事实情况之前”仓促宣布疫情为全球“大流行病”。
Nonetheless, WHO does not want to rush to declare the outbreak a global "pandemic" without "careful and clear analysis of the facts."
谭德塞强调，“世卫组织已经宣布新型冠状病毒疫情为国际关注的突发公共卫生事件，这是世卫组织最高级别的预警。
"The WHO has declared the new coronavirus outbreak to be a public health emergency of international concern, which is the highest-level WHO alert," he stressed.
草率地使用‘全球大流行’一词，并不会产生任何切实的益处，只会带来严重的风险，放大没有必要和缺乏根据的恐惧及污名化，让社会体系陷入瘫痪。
The hasty use of the term 'global pandemic' does not produce any tangible benefits, but carries a serious risk of amplifying unnecessary and unfounded fears and stigmatization and paralysing the social system.
”谭德塞同时指出，世卫组织正在24小时持续监测疫情进展，并与本组织内外专家保持沟通，假如疫情真的发展到了需要宣布“全球大流行”的地步，世卫组织也不会有任何迟疑。
He added that WHO was monitoring the situation 24 hours a day and was in communication with experts inside and outside the organization, and that it would not hesitate to declare a "global pandemic" if the outbreak did go as far as it needed to.
他说，“目前，我们没有看到持续和密集的社区传播，也没有看到大规模的重症和死亡。
"At the moment, we are not seeing sustained and intensive community transmission, nor are we seeing large-scale serious illness and death," he said.
拥有14亿人口的中国，病例数量不到8万人，拥有63亿人口的世界其余国家，现有病例数量为2790人。
China, with a population of 1.4 billion, has fewer than 80,000 cases and the rest of the world, with 6.3 billion people, has 2,790 cases.
”美国目前共有60例新冠确诊病例，其中美国本土的确诊病例是15例，病患涉及旅游或与旅行者有过密切的接触。
There have been 60 confirmed cases in the US, including 15 confirmed cases in the US mainland, involving travel or close contact with travellers.
美国从武汉撤出的侨民中有3人确诊传染了新冠病毒，从日本“钻石公主”号游轮上接回的美国人中有42起确诊病例。
Three of the evacuees from Wuhan in the United States were confirmed to have contracted the new crown virus, and 42 confirmed cases were recovered from the Japanese cruise ship Princess Diamond.
美国首例来源不明确诊病例美国疾病控制与预防中心（CDC）在当地时间2月26日表示，美国已有60例确诊病例，其中大部分来自从日本的钻石公主号邮轮上被撤回的乘客，还有三起来自从武汉撤回的侨民。
The country's first confirmed case of unidentified source, the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), said Tuesday 60 confirmed cases have been reported in the United States, most of them from passengers removed from the Japanese vessel Princess Diamond and three from Wuhan.
就美国境内发现的病例来说，美国疾控中心网站数据显示目前的确诊病例是14例，其中12例有中国旅行史，另外两例是密切接触者之间的人传人。
In terms of cases found in the United States, CDC website data show that there are currently 14 confirmed cases, 12 of which have a history of travel to China, and two cases of person-to-person transmission between close contacts.
美国卫生部长阿扎尔周三在国会的一次听证会上说，他刚刚得到有了第15例确诊病例的消息，当局还在研究该病例的病毒流行轨迹。
At a congressional hearing on Wednesday, U.S. Health Secretary Asif Azar said he had just received word of the 15th confirmed case, and that authorities were studying the virus' s trajectory.
CDC同天晚间证实在加州北部发现该起新增病例，患者没有已知疫区旅行史或与感染病毒者的密切接触史。
The same night, the CDC confirmed the new case in northern California, where the patient had no known travel history or close contact with people infected with the virus.
CDC表示仍在继续调查感染来源。
The CDC says it continues to investigate the source of the infection.
这有可能是美国的首起社区传播病例。
This is probably the first case of community transmission in the United States.
美国卫生官员说，疫情有可能成为全球“大流行病”，迟早会在美国出现社区传播。
U. S. health officials say the outbreak has the potential to become a global "pandemic" that will sooner or later spread to communities in the United States.
在特朗普政府面临更大防疫压力之际，当地时间2月26日下午6时30分，美国总统特朗普和美国疾病控制与预防中心(CDC)官员等出席新闻发布会，谈论新冠病毒扩散问题。
At 6.30 p.m. local time, US President Trump and officials from the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) attended a press conference to discuss the spread of the new cap virus at 6.30 p.m. local time.
特朗普宣布任命副总统彭斯做抗击新冠病毒疫情的大主管，因彭斯在担任印第安纳州州长期间有医疗政策方面的经验。
Trump announced the appointment of Vice President Burns as chief executive of the fight against the New Crown Virus, owing to his experience of health policy during his tenure as governor of Indiana.
彭斯将负责协调医务人员和其他专业人员，防止病毒在美国蔓延。
Burns will coordinate medical and other professionals to prevent the virus from spreading in the United States.
特朗普表示，到目前为止，美国对新冠肺炎疫情采取的预防措施意味着美国人面临的风险“仍然很低”。
Trump has said that the precautions taken so far by the United States in response to the outbreak of pneumonia in the New Crown mean that the risks to Americans are "still low."
当天特朗普总统在推特上写道，经常批评他的美国有线电视新闻网（CNN）和MSNBC“正在尽一切可能让新冠病毒看起来尽可能糟糕，如果可能的话，包括让市场恐慌”。
President Trump tweeted that day that his regular critics, CNN and MSNBC, were "doing everything possible to make the new crown virus look as bad as possible, including by spooking markets if possible."
美国疾病控制与预防中心(CDC)首席副主任安妮·舒查特(Anne Schuchat)当天敦促美国人以及该国学校和企业做好应对新冠肺炎疫情的准备。
Anne Schuchat, chief deputy director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, urged Americans and schools and businesses to prepare for a new outbreak of pneumonia.
她说，“我们预计会看到更多病例。
"We expect to see more cases," she said.
现在是做准备的好时机。
This is a good time to prepare.
”▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the epidemic: & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
新冠疫情蔓延六大洲，世卫密切监测新进展。
The new outbreak has spread to six continents, and WHO is closely monitoring new developments.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "新冠疫情蔓延六大洲，世卫密切监测新进展";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "目前包括中国大陆在内，全球已经有41个国家和地区出现了疫情，其中，韩国是中国大陆之外疫情蔓延最快的国家。
var msg _ desc = & quot; At present, including mainland China, 41 countries and territories have been affected, with South Korea the fastest-spreading epidemic outside mainland China.
尽管如此，世卫组织不希望在“没有谨慎和清晰地分析事实情况之前”仓促宣布疫情为全球“大流行病”";。
Nonetheless, WHO does not want to hastily declare the epidemic a global "pandemic" without "careful and clear analysis of the facts."
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
