应对新冠，上海是如何及时敲响警钟的？。
In response to the new crown, how does Shanghai sound the alarm bell in time?
杨璐。
Lu Yang.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
作为一个2400万人的大城市，上海从2月9日开始每天的确诊人数只有个位数。
As a big city with 24 million people, the number of confirmed cases in Shanghai has been in the single digits since February 9.
整个疫情期间，没有疫情大爆发，没有医务人员的感染，确诊病例的治愈率达到了80%。
Throughout the epidemic, there was no outbreak, no infection by medical personnel and 80 per cent of confirmed cases were cured.
新冠疫情是一个重大的突发事件，上海给人的感觉却是利落且井然有序。
The New Crown Epidemic is a major emergency, but Shanghai gives a sense of cleanliness and order.
在很短的时间内，每个人都知道自己应该站在哪个位置，做些什么。
In a very short time, everyone knows where to stand and what to do.
市民在“把病毒闷死”这件事上迅速达成共识，社区工作人员拉网排查高概率的传染源和切断传播途径，110个发热门诊作为哨点识别出确诊病例，所有确诊病例送到远在金山的上海公共卫生临床中心住院治疗。
The public quickly reached consensus on the issue of "suffocating the virus," with community workers pulling out high-probability sources of infection and cutting off transmission routes, 110 fever clinics serving as outposts to identify confirmed cases and all confirmed cases to be hospitalized at the Shanghai Public Health Clinic in Jinshan.
上海所有跟新冠肺炎相关的科室，最优势的医疗资源集中到公卫中心，帮助患者一起跟病毒搏斗。
In all the departments concerned with Newcastle Pneumonia in Shanghai, the best medical resources are concentrated in public health centers to help patients fight with the virus together.
它的每一步处理，都值得当作样本对照疫情发展至今的状况。
Each of its steps deserves to be taken as a sample against which the epidemic has evolved to date.
记者｜杨璐摄影｜张雷不等宣布疫情，也能采取预防措施卢洪洲所在的上海市公共临床中心的前身是上海传染病院，从市中心过去，大概有50公里远的路程，临近医院甚至还路过了农田。
reporter, yeg Lu, Zhang Lei, not less than to announce the outbreak, can also take preventive measures The Shanghai Public Clinical Centre, where Luhong Zhou is located, was formerly known as the Shanghai Infectious Diseases Hospital, which runs about 50 kilometers from the city centre, and even passes by farmland.
它虽然是一个三甲医院，现在却把守森严，不接受一般病人的问诊。
Although it is a triple-A hospital, it is now heavily guarded and does not receive medical attention from ordinary patients.
根据上海市对传染病的分工，110家发热门诊是发现新冠病毒的哨点，那里确诊的病例，全部送到远离市区的这家医院住院。
According to the distribution of infectious diseases in Shanghai, 110 fever clinics were the sentinel sites for the discovery of the new crown virus, and all cases diagnosed there were sent to the hospital far from the city.
它是上海这次新冠肺炎疫情的最后一道防线，也是主战场。
It is the last line of defense and the main battleground of the new outbreak of pneumonia in Shanghai.
SARS过后，上海市在金山圈地500亩，建立了这个永久性的、阻击和治疗传染病的堡垒。
After SARS, Shanghai set up a permanent fort to stop and treat infectious diseases in the 500 mu Jinshan enclosure.
因为定位在保障上海，乃至国家的生物安全，它日常虽然是一座三甲医院，警惕性却从来没有放松。
Located to protect the biosecurity of Shanghai and even the country, though it is a triple-A hospital, its vigilance has never been relaxed.
全球化的时代，没有远在天边的疫情，一架飞机的飞行时间就可能被乘客带入进来。
In an age of globalization, when there is no such thing as a distant epidemic, the flight time of an aircraft can be brought in by passengers.
公卫中心日常就有搜集全球疫情的工作习惯，比如2013年的H7N9新型禽流感病毒。
Public health centers routinely have the habit of gathering information about global outbreaks, such as the new H7N9 avian flu virus in 2013.
2月20日的上海街头，疫情是个突发事件，上海的处理却井然有序这一次新冠肺炎疫情，上海公卫中心反应很敏捷。
February 20, Shanghai street, the outbreak is an emergency, Shanghai's handling of the order of this new outbreak of pneumonia, Shanghai Public Health Center response is very agile.
12月31日，中国疾控中心对世卫组织发出预警，武汉疾控中心对公众发布预警，第二天，上海公卫中心按照正常程序就开始发动起来。
On December 31, the China CDC issued a warning to the WHO, the Wuhan CDC issued a warning to the public, the next day, the Shanghai Public Health Center started to launch in accordance with normal procedures.
上海公卫中心院长朱同玉对本刊记者说：“在为期两天的培训里，公卫中心的医生、护士、后勤、保安等人员全都参加，一旦病人到医院，引导他走哪个电梯，去哪个楼，医生要做什么准备，梯队要做什么准备都进行了预演。
"During the two-day training, all the doctors, nurses, logistics and security personnel from the public health center participated in the training. Once the patient got to the hospital, which elevator to take, which building to go to, what preparations the doctor had to make and what preparations the echelons had to make," Zhu Tongyu, dean of the public health center, told reporters
1月6日，公卫中心针对武汉的不明原因肺炎成立了专项的应急办公室。
On January 6, the Public Health Center set up a special emergency office for unspecified pneumonia in Wuhan.
这些准备在随后的首例新冠肺炎确诊病例的治疗上开始发挥作用，直到现在。
These preparations have begun to play a role in the subsequent treatment of the first confirmed case of Newly Coronary Pneumonia, and remain so until now.
”2月3日，一名医务人员在上海证券交易所大楼大门外喷洒消毒液当时，对武汉不明原因肺炎的了解并不清楚。
When a medical worker sprayed disinfectant outside the gate of the Shanghai Stock Exchange building on February 3, knowledge of the causes of pneumonia in Wuhan was unclear.
上海公卫中心党委书记卢洪洲说，他们全员演习用的假想疾病是中东呼吸综合症。
Shanghai public health center party secretary Luhong zhou said the hypothetical illness they used in the full-scale exercise was the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome.
中东呼吸综合症是一种急性呼吸道感染，在新冠肺炎被确认之前，它和SARS属于冠状病毒引起的两种最严重的传染病。
Middle Eastern Respiratory Syndrome is an acute respiratory infection. It and SARS were among the two most serious coronavirus-related infections prior to the confirmation of coronavirus.
卢洪洲是世界卫生组织临床专家组专家、主要研究感染性疾病的诊治与发病机制，2013年的H7N9新型禽流感病毒的防控战，正是他拉响警报：要接诊医院紧急布置医院感染防控工作、标本送实验室重点研究新病毒的可能。
Luk Hong Chau is an expert of the World Health Organization (WHO) clinical team, specializing in the diagnosis, treatment and pathogenesis of infectious diseases. In 2013, he was responsible for the prevention and control of the new type of avian influenza virus.
那一次的防控被世卫组织称赞为“迅速、高效、专业”。
That control was praised by the WHO as "quick, efficient and professional."
世卫组织还将WHO新发传染病临床管理、研究与培训中心落户上海，任命卢洪洲为中心主任。
WHO also located the WHO Clinical Management, Research and Training Centre for Emerging Infectious Diseases in Shanghai and appointed Luhong Zhou as its Director.
上海市公卫中心党委书记卢洪洲除了内部的疫情预演，公卫中心还向上海市民进行了科普。
Shanghai Public Health Center party secretary Luhong zhou in addition to the internal outbreak of the preview, the public health center also conducted a popular science of Shanghai citizens.
12月31日13点38分，武汉卫健委在官网发布肺炎疫情通报：“目前已发现27例病例，其中7例病情严重。
At 13: 38 on December 31, Wuhan Health Commission issued a notice of pneumonia on the official website: "27 cases have been found so far, seven of which are serious.
调查未发现明显人传人现象，未发现医务人员感染。
The investigation did not reveal significant human-to-human transmission and no infection by medical personnel.
”当天下午，上海公卫中心就在上海本地的《上观新闻》上以《武汉市卫健委通报肺炎疫情，冬春季“病毒性肺炎”怎么防，专家教您记住三招》为题目进行了肺炎预防的科普。
In the afternoon, the Shanghai Public Health Center told the local "Shangguan News" about the outbreak of pneumonia in Wuhan City, how to prevent "viral pneumonia" in winter and spring, and experts taught you three tips for prevention of pneumonia.
1月9日，卢洪洲再次在本地媒体上提醒市民：即使天气寒冷，也要注意居室和办公室通风，通风可以减少空气中的病毒数量，从而减少感染。
On January 9, Luk Hong Chau again warned people in local media that even in cold weather, pay attention to ventilation in homes and offices. Ventilation can reduce the number of viruses in the air, thereby reducing the number of infections.
家人或办公室同事在流行季患病了，其他人应该注意隔离，以减少传染机会。
Family or office workers get sick during the season, and others should watch out for isolation to reduce the chance of infection.
病毒性肺炎和流感流行季，要尽量少到人群密集的场所。
Viral pneumonia and influenza pandemic season, to minimize the number of densely populated places.
外出乘地铁、公交等公共交通回家后，要及时换掉外套，洗手、洗鼻。
When you go home by subway or public transportation, change your coat, wash your hands and nose in time.
新冠肺炎疫情爆发之后，谁有权力宣布疫情，以及宣布疫情的时机成了追责的焦点。
In the wake of the outbreak of pneumonia in the New Crown, who has the authority to declare an outbreak, and the timing of the declaration, is the focus of accountability.
在有经验的流行病学家看来，依法披露跟采取措施控制疫情并不矛盾。
In the view of experienced epidemiologists, legal disclosure does not contradict measures to control the epidemic.
美国加州大学洛杉矶分校公共卫生学院副院长、流行病学资深终身教授张作风说：“没有人会阻止地方上采取预防控制措施。
"No one is going to stop people from taking preventive measures at the local level," said Zhang style, senior lifelong professor of epidemiology and vice-president of UCLA School of Public Health.
今年本来就是肺炎高发，预防措施不但可以把可能爆发的新冠肺炎控制下来，同时也可以减少其他类型肺炎。
This year, with a high incidence of pneumonia, preventive measures will not only control possible outbreaks of pneumonia, but also reduce other types of pneumonia.
因为它们都是肺炎，采取的预防措施类似，那样不是很好吗？”上海公卫中心这种在新冠肺炎疫情没有被宣布“人传人”、对新病毒还没有完全研究清楚的情况下，就保持警惕和在自己职责范围内提前采取措施的做法，是传染病防控领域的职业素养。
Because they are pneumonia, the preventive measures are similar, isn't that good? "Shanghai Public Health Center in the new crown pneumonia has not been declared" human-to-human ", the new virus has not been fully clear, the practice of vigilance and within their own responsibility to take early measures is the professional quality in the field of infectious disease control.
张作风说：“尽管病因不太明朗，病的严重性不清楚，这不影响即时采取保护措施。
"Although the etiology is not clear, the severity of the disease is not clear, which does not affect immediate protective measures," Zhang said.
如果知道传染源和传染途径，我们就切断传染源和传染途径。
If we know the source of infection and the route of transmission, we cut off the source and route of transmission.
如果是呼吸道传播的话，我们戴口罩，如果是密切接触传播，我们就勤洗手勤洗澡，如果有中间宿主的话，我们就消灭中间宿主。
If it is respiratory tract transmission, we wear masks, if it is in close contact with transmission, we wash hands frequently and bathe frequently, if there is an intermediate host, we destroy the intermediate host.
在我们了解疾病的病因和复杂的病因机制之前，就应该采取防控措施。
Prevention and control measures should be taken before we know the cause and the complex etiology of the disease.
”2月17日的上海街头，防控需要全社会的动员跟SARS89.11%的同源性实际上，流行病学家能从早期病例中嗅出传染病的味道。
On the streets of Shanghai on February 17, prevention and control require the mobilization of society as a whole and the homology of SARS89.11 per cent.
张作风说：“12月1日的病例没有华南海鲜市场的暴露史，提示一开始就可能存在人传人；也可能存在小型社区感染。
"The case on December 1 has no history of exposure to the South China seafood market, suggesting that there may have been human-to-human transmission in the first place," Zhang said.
12月26日的病例是一家三口的家族聚集性发病，人传人的可能性太大了。
The case on December 26 was a family of three with a family of three with a high likelihood of human-to-human transmission.
这里面并没有太多迷雾来影响我们采取预防措施。
There's not a lot of fog here to prevent us from taking precautions.
”张作风远在海外，很早就开始关注新冠肺炎的发展。
Zhang, who lives far abroad, has long watched the development of pneumonia in the New Crown.
他说：“说老实话，呼吸道的新发传染病不是人传人的，可能还是很少见的。
"To be honest, new respiratory infections are not passed from person to person and may be rare," he said.
今年一月初，我和一位国内在SARS流行时非常有影响力的专家讨论，我俩都感到奇怪，为什么一开始对这个呼吸道的传染病定论为‘没有证据人传人’， 并且说‘可防可控’？估计是为防止群众恐慌以维持社会稳定。
In early January, I discussed with a highly influential domestic expert on SARS, and we were both surprised why this respiratory tract infection was initially identified as' no evidence-to-person 'and said' preventable under control ', presumably to prevent mass panic in order to maintain social stability.
但这样的思维用于新发传染病爆发早期，客观上延误了及时采取预防措施有效控制疫情爆发的机会，以致促进了全国新冠肺炎的大流行。
However, such thinking was used in the early stage of the outbreak of new infectious diseases, which objectively delayed the opportunity to take timely preventive measures to effectively control the outbreak, thus contributing to a nationwide outbreak of new crown pneumonia.
”2月17日，上海某小区封闭情况不但有监控，还有区领导的乔装检查上海公卫中心的流行病学家们对这个不明原因肺炎的推论，倒是不需要很长的链条，因为他们很快就得到了对这个病毒的科学研究结果。
On Feb. 17, epidemiologists in Shanghai's district-led makeshift center, which monitors the closure of a district, did not need a long chain to deduce pneumonia because they soon got scientific research on the virus.
跟普通三甲医院不同的地方是，上海公卫中心的科研能力很强，它有上海第一家P3实验室。
Unlike a normal Sanjia hospital, the Shanghai Public Health Center has a strong scientific research capability. It has Shanghai's first P3 laboratory.
中心的张永振教授一直在做发现新病毒的研究，在过去的5年时间里，他和团队一共从我国发现了2000多种新病毒，目前全球有名字的病毒大概有4000到5000种，也就是说张教授和团队的发现相当于全球有名字的病毒三分之一还多。
Zhang Yongzhen, professor at the center, has been working on discovering new viruses. Over the past five years, he and his team have discovered more than 2,000 new viruses from China.
除了科研成果，这个研究使得张永振和团队建立了一套世界领先的发现新病毒、高通量测序体系，能在最快的时间内完成对未知病毒的测序。
In addition to scientific research, the study enabled Zhang Yongzhen and his team to set up a world-leading system for discovering new viruses and sequencing high throughput, enabling the sequencing of unknown viruses in the shortest possible time.
因为一直在做新病毒的研究，张永振团队跟武汉中心医院、武汉疾控中心都有合作。
Because has been doing new virus research, Zhang Yongzhen team and Wuhan central hospital, Wuhan CDC have cooperation.
1月3日，张永振的团队从武汉拿到不明原因肺炎病毒的标本，用了不到40个小时的时间，在1月5日，拿到了这种病毒的全基因组序列，根据测试数据绘制的进化树，证实武汉新型冠状病毒是历史上从未有过的。
On January 3, Zhang's team took samples of the unidentified pneumonia virus from Wuhan and spent less than 40 hours to obtain a complete genome sequence of the virus on January 5. Based on the test data, the evolutionary tree confirmed that Wuhan's new coronavirus was unprecedented in history.
令人不安的是，这种病毒与造成SARS冠状病毒的同源性是89.11%。
Disturbingly, the virus is 89.11% homologous to the cause of the SARS coronavirus.
卢洪洲在接受本刊采访时说，1月5日，他们把这个发现，以及他们对这个发现的解读“鉴于该病毒与SARS疫情的冠状病毒同源，应是经呼吸道传播，建议在公共场所采取相应的防控措施以及在临床救治中采用抗病毒治疗”敲了单位的章，报告给国家卫生健康委员会。
In an interview with the magazine, Lu said on January 5, they described the finding, and their interpretation of it, as "given that the virus is of the same origin as the SARS coronavirus, it should be transmitted by respiratory tract.
89.11%的同源性意味着什么？美国俄亥俄州立大学王秋红教授是病毒学家，实验室研究重点是肠道杯状病毒和冠状病毒。
Professor Wang Qiuhong of Ohio State University in the United States is a virologist and laboratory studies have focused on the intestinal cup virus and coronavirus.
她向本刊记者解释：“测序之后，知道它是与SARS冠状病毒同源性有80%了，不能就说是有人传人，还要结合流行病学的资料。
"After sequencing, I knew that it was 80 percent of the coronavirus homologous with SARS coronavirus," she told reporters. "It cannot be said to be a human-to-human transmission, but must be combined with epidemiological data.
人类目前发现的六个冠状病毒里，四个致病性轻的都跟SARS的相差比较大，可新冠肺炎的冠状病毒基因序列跟SARS更接近，就应该警觉起来。
Of the six coronavirus currently found in humans, the four coronavirus-like viruses are very different from SARS, and the coronavirus sequence of the new coronavirus is closer to SARS.
”理论上讲，病毒测序只是知道它的型别，要结合它的传染力、致病力、致死力才能判断出它的严重性，可如果真是等到这些指标，需要的临床样本也比较多，同时也说明疫情在扩散。
In theory, virus sequencing only knows its type, and the severity of the disease can be judged by its infectivity, virulence, and lethality, but if it does, more clinical samples will be needed, indicating that the outbreak is spreading.
新发现的冠状病毒没有发现明显的人传人，也要把它当作人传人来处理。
The newly discovered coronavirus did not find significant human-to-human transmission and should also be treated as human-to-human transmission.
王秋红说：“很多病毒刚从动物传到人，没有很明显人传人，可能因为它刚刚找到新宿主传染力不大，也可能样本量不够大。
"Many viruses have just passed from animal to human, and there is no obvious human-to-human transmission, probably because it has just found a new host with little infectivity," Wang said.
新冠肺炎的这个是RNA病毒，变异是很快的，它每次感染一个人，从这个人身上排出来，都可能会有变化。
This is the RNA virus of Newcomb Pneumonia. The mutation is so rapid that it can change every time it infects a person and discharges him or her.
随着感染的人越来越多，可能会越来越适应这个新的宿主，演变成人传人。
As more and more people become infected, they may increasingly adapt to this new host and evolve into adult transplants.
所以，理想的情况是在早期切断它的传播途径，病毒就找不到下一个宿主，减少了在人这个群体里演化的途径，被消灭了。
So, ideally, the virus would not find another host at an early stage, reducing the way it evolves in the human population and eliminating it.
”这个全基因组序列的结果不是秘密，很快在全球范围内就被公布了。
The results of this whole genome sequence were not secret and were soon published worldwide.
1月9日，中国工程院院士徐建国公布，专家组认为本次不明原因的病毒性肺炎病例的病原体初步判定为新型冠状病毒。
On January 9, Chinese Academy of Engineering academician Xu Jianguo announced that the expert group believes the cause of this unknown case of viral pneumonia is a new coronavirus.
徐建国院士在接受新华社采访时说：“此次疫情的新型冠状病毒不同于已发现的人类冠状病毒，对该病毒的深入了解需要进一步科学研究。
"The new coronavirus is different from the one found in human coronavirus, and further scientific research is needed," Xu told Xinhua.
”王秋红所在的实验室研究重点之一就是冠状病毒，可她并不认为得出需要警惕这种新冠状病毒的结论是个冷僻的专业判断。
"One of the priorities of Wang's laboratory was the coronavirus, but she did not consider it an eccentric professional judgment to conclude that there was a need to be wary of the new coronavirus.
“国内临床的专家、经历过SARS的流行病专家，再加上做冠状病毒研究的这些病毒学家，他们在一起应该能够跟我得出相同的结论。
"Domestic clinical experts, epidemiologists who have experienced SARS, and virologists who do coronavirus research should be able to come to the same conclusion as me.
”王秋红说。
'said Wang.
张作风也对于这次疫情中，人传人确定的时机感到疑惑：“基因测序之后，发现它是冠状病毒，跟SARS还有很多相同之处，更加要想到人传人，再加上12月份第一例没有海鲜市场暴露史、一家三口感染的这些病例，为什么一直要坚持不是人传人，或者所谓的没有证据人传人呢？我不知道这是一个什么原因，不大符合常理。
Zhang style also wondered about the timing of the human-to-human transmission of the outbreak: "After sequencing, it was found to be coronavirus, many similarities with SARS, and even more so with human-to-human transmission.
”市民：警钟敲得特别快作为一个人口超过2400万的超级城市，上海从2月9日起，每天确诊人数只有个位数，整座城市却没有因此松口气，随着复工潮即将到来，甚至绷得更紧。
"Citizen: Alarm bells ringing particularly fast As a super-city with a population of more than 24 million, Shanghai has been diagnosing the number of cases in single digits every day since February 9.
小区刚封闭的时候，只在进门时检查出入证，我们采访的这个礼拜，出门也要查。
When the neighborhood first closed, only when the door to check pass, we interview this week, also go out to check.
门岗告诉我们，担心正在隔离期的居民出小区，他们必须到隔离期满才能领到出入证。
The guard told us that residents worried about leaving the area during the isolation period would have to wait until the end of the quarantine period to get a pass.
2月21日，虹桥火车站是进入上海的关卡，要测体温和登记行迹即便能自由活动，市民也大部分时间都待在家里。
On Feb. 21, Hongqiao Railway Station is a gateway to Shanghai, and residents stay at home most of the time, even if they are free to take temperature measurements and check their tracks.
拎得清的上海人在“把病毒闷死”这件事上达成了高度统一。
The Shanghainese who were also able to carry the virus to death reached a high degree of unity in the matter.
上海疫情防控的难度不在于居民不重视，恰恰相反，工作量来自于居民希望滴水不漏。
The difficulty of preventing and controlling the epidemic in Shanghai lies not in the inattention of the residents, but in the fact that they hope to keep them safe.
“我们时常接到居民电话，说听到邻居一直空置的房子门响了，他们不敢出门看，要居委会上来敲门，一定跟对方见面，问清楚人从哪里来。
"We often get phone calls from residents who say they dare not go out and see the door of their neighbor's empty house. They ask the neighborhood committee to knock on the door.
”汤晓梅说。
"said Xiaomei.
真如街道给重点地区返沪隔离的住户装了报警磁条，只要开门，总控中心和居委书记的手机上就弹出消息。
If the streets to the key areas back to Shanghai isolated households equipped with alarm magnetic stripes, as long as the door, the master control center and neighborhood secretary on the mobile phone pop-up.
这样做除了确保不外出，也是向邻居们证明小区是安全的。
In addition to making sure not to go out, it also proves to neighbors that the neighborhood is safe.
街道工作人员说，没装磁条前，一听说楼里有人医学隔离，邻居就很紧张，不停打12345热线，担心隔离的人不待在家里，甚至要求社区派人24小时守到人家门口。
Street workers said neighbors were nervous when they heard there was a medical quarantine inside the building before they installed the magnetic stripes. They called the 12,345 hotline, fearing that isolated people would not stay at home and even asking the community to send people around the clock to their homes.
2月22日，上海人在“闷死病毒”这件事上达成高度共识，日常所需大量依靠网购经历过1988年的甲肝、2003年的SARS，很多上海人对传染病的警钟敲得特别快。
On Feb. 22, Shanghainese reached a high degree of consensus on the "suffocating virus," relying heavily on online shopping to experience hepatitis A in 1988 and SARS in 2003.
市民鱼老师（化名）说，1月初，她所在的妈妈群里就有人发了武汉不明原因肺炎的消息。
Citizen fish teacher (alias) said that in early January, her mother in the group of people sent the news that Wuhan unknown pneumonia.
“我大脑的应急反应一下就想起了非典。
My brain's emergency response reminds me of SARS.
那时候我还在上学，每天早上第一件事就是测体温，家长签字。
I was still at school at that time. My temperature was taken the first thing in the morning.
一旦有同学发热整个班级都要隔离。
Once a classmate is feverish the whole class must be isolated.
想起非典，大概是上海人未雨绸缪的性格吧，我就告诉家里老人要准备好口罩，自己也下单买了N95。
Think of SARS, is probably the character of the Shanghai people for a rainy day, I told the old man to prepare a mask, his own order to buy N95.
”鱼老师说。
"said the fish teacher.
1月20日，新冠肺炎人传人的消息一公布，上海市面上的口罩就卖光了。
As soon as word of the man-to-person transmission of the new crown pneumonia was announced on January 20, Shanghai sold out of face masks.
“我身边的朋友里，女同胞普遍意识都特别强。
"Among the friends around me, there is a general awareness among my female compatriots.
男同胞，长辈们可能一开始不觉得严重，洗手、戴口罩不太愿意，可随着报道的深入，他们也转变了，从被动配合到主动积极。
Male compatriots, elders may not feel serious at first, wash hands, wearing masks reluctant, but as the report goes deeper, they also changed, from passive to proactive.
”鱼老师说。
"said the fish teacher.
上海人的这种未雨绸缪也体现在上海公卫中心的战略储备上。
This forethought of Shanghai people is also reflected in the Shanghai Public Health Center's strategic reserves.
卢洪洲说：“2004年设计这个医院的时候，按照当时全球可能出现的新发传染病运行情况、需要隔离治疗的情况，我们做了一个预测，认为327张床位能够应付疫情，所以建了4栋负压病房。
"When the hospital was designed in 2004, we made a prediction that 327 beds would be able to cope with the epidemic, based on the likely operation of new infectious diseases around the world and the need for seclusion, so we built four negative pressure wards," he said.
遇到327张床位应付不了的疫情，建医院的时候还预留了600张床位的空地，可以在两个礼拜之内建成另外600张床。
In the event of an outbreak of 327 beds, the hospital was built with a 600-bed space that could accommodate an additional 600 beds within two weeks.
当时的计划是一旦327张床中使用了一半，预留床位的工程就要启动，不能等到住满了再建。
The plan was that once half of the 327 beds were occupied, the reserved beds would start and not wait until they were fully occupied.
这次新冠肺炎，作为预案，我们现在启动了预留床位里的200张床。
This time around, as a precaution, we have now started 200 beds in the reserved beds.
我估计这次只是备着，现在一期的327张床里，还有一栋楼没用上呢。
I guess it's on the table this time, but one of the 327 beds isn't working now.
”床位在新冠肺炎的抗疫中非常重要。
Bed beds are important in the fight against SARS.
卢洪洲说：“这个病症大多数是轻症、少数是重症，并不可怕，还是有办法的。
"The disease is mostly mild, a few are severe, not terrible, or there are ways," Luhong said.
关键是要让床等人，把所有的感染者全部收治，传染源就控制住了。
The key is to let the bed and so on, all infected people are admitted to treatment, the source of infection on the control.
确诊和疑似病例的增量就往下走了。
The increase in diagnoses and suspected cases went down.
上海就是阳性全收，不存在在家隔离。
Shanghai is a positive total, there is no isolation at home.
家里即便是四室一厅，还是会出很多问题。
Even in a four-bedroom, one-bedroom home, there are many problems.
集中收治在一起，床位如果紧张，也可以加床，因为如果是轻症，都是同一种病毒，住在一起彼此不会有太大的影响。
Centralized treatment, beds can be added if the bed is tight, because in the case of mild illness, all are the same virus, living together will not have much impact on each other.
”除了负压病床，跟传染病搏斗的装备在上海公卫中心也是一项日常储备。
Besides negative-pressure beds, equipment to fight infectious diseases is a daily reserve at the Shanghai Public Health Center.
卢洪洲说：“新冠疫情发生之后，我们不需要临时购买装备。
"We don't need to buy equipment on a temporary basis after the outbreak of the new crown," he said.
公卫中心这些医疗器材，日常就根据当时有多少病人，准备5天的消耗。
Public Health Center these medical equipment, based on the number of patients at the time, prepared for five days of consumption.
防护服、口罩、正压呼吸器都有储备，特别是正压呼吸器，我们本身就是负压病房，再用上正压呼吸器就是双保险，医务人员不会感染。
Protective clothing, face mask, positive pressure respirator are all in reserve, especially the positive pressure ventilator, we are the negative pressure ward, then use the positive pressure breathing apparatus is double insurance, medical staff will not be infected.
对医疗队伍的保护，我们早就做好了。
We've done a good job of protecting the medical team.
”2月18日 ，东方医院发热门诊正在给病人进行咽拭子测试我们在采访时遇到行政楼的大堂里摆了非常多的旅行箱，那是上海市内医院的医护人员来这里上班带的行李。
"On Feb. 18, the Eastern Hospital Fever Clinic was swabbing patients with swabs. We were interviewed and we came across a large number of suitcases in the lobby of the administration building, where hospital staff from Shanghai had come to work.
除了把确诊病例集中到公卫中心，上海这一次也采用了集中优势医疗资源的方式，全市跟新冠肺炎相关科室的专家和医护力量随时征调到公卫中心工作，大概有170多名外援医生到公卫中心来常驻或者参加会诊。
In addition to centralizing the confirmed cases in public health centers, Shanghai this time also adopted the method of concentrating the superior medical resources. Experts and medical personnel from the departments concerned with the new crown pneumonia were called to work at the public health center at any time. About 170 foreign aid doctors came to the public health center to stay or attend the consultation.
华山医院感染科主任张文宏、瑞金医院急诊科主任毛恩强、中山医院呼吸科教授朱蕾、感染科主任胡必杰等组成了医疗救治专家组。
Zhang Wenhong, director of infection department of Huashan Hospital, Maun Qiang, director of emergency department of Ruijin Hospital, Zhu Lei, professor of respiratory department of Zhongshan Hospital, and Hu Bijie, director of infection department, formed a medical treatment expert group.
他们每天与进驻在负压病房里救治的医生们通过远程形式讨论患者的治疗方案。
They discussed the patient's treatment options remotely with the doctors in the negative-pressure ward each day.
公卫中心有一个P3实验室，每天对确诊病人进行标本采集和化验，这些数据再给到临床作为参考。
The Centre has a P3 laboratory which collects and tests samples of confirmed patients on a daily basis and these data are used for clinical reference.
专家组、医生们用自己的临床经验，这些精细的数据，为每一个住院患者制定专属的治疗方案，“一个个过堂”、“一人一策”。
Using their own clinical experience, these fine data, the team of experts, doctors, for each in-patient treatment plan, "one by one", "one person one policy."
上海公卫临床中心做了该做的事情，从疫情防控开始竖立的道道关卡，一直到精细化的治疗，截至本刊发稿，2400万人口的上海市发现确诊病例335例，治愈出院249例，治愈出院率为74.3%。
The Shanghai Public Health Clinic has done its part, from the control of the epidemic through the erection of road barriers to the refinement of treatment. As of this print, 335 cases have been found in Shanghai with a population of 24 million, 249 cases have been cured and discharged, and the rate of cured discharge is 74.3%.
请戳→《三联生活周刊》新冠肺炎系列报道⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载开白请联系后台。
Please stamp [5prE5teiFEn] New Crown Pneumonia Series Article Copyright of Three Lives Weekly, welcome to your friends circle, please contact the backstage.
未经同意，严禁转载至网站、APP等。
Do not reprint to website, APP etc. without agreement.
点击下图，下单新冠特刊「准备复工」点击阅读原文，进入周刊书店，购买【新冠肺炎专刊组合】。
Click on the image below to download the new crown special issue of Ready for Work and go to the Weekly Bookstore to buy the New Crown Pneumonia Special Issue.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
应对新冠，上海是如何及时敲响警钟的？。
In response to the new crown, how does Shanghai sound the alarm bell in time?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "应对新冠，上海是如何及时敲响警钟的？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "新冠疫情是一个重大的突发事件，上海给人的感觉却是利落且井然有序。
var msg _ desc = & quot; The New Crown outbreak was a major emergency, but Shanghai was seen as neat and orderly.
在很短的时间内，每个人都知道自己应该站在哪个位置，做些什么。
In a very short time, everyone knows where to stand and what to do.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
