现场 | “围城”方舱：另一个世界。
AT & # 124; & # 45; The Siege Cabin: Another World.
驳静。
Calm down.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
还在酒店隔离的病人想进方舱，因为这里起码有药吃，有医生看，悬起的心有着落。
Patients still isolated in the hotel want to enter the cabin, because there is at least medicine to eat, a doctor to see where the suspended heart can come from.
一旦进了方舱，目标转向，变成“出去”，心又高悬，痊愈者期盼出院，重症者亟待转院。
Once inside the cabin, the target turns, becomes "go out", the heart hangs high, the healer looks forward to discharge, the seriously ill need to be transferred to hospital.
假如没有方舱，他们就无处可去。
If there were no square cabins, they would have nowhere to go.
记者 | 驳静（发自武汉）进入方舱武汉客厅顾名思义，它是武汉这座城市为自己建造的大客厅，曾举办大型博览会、大型嘉年华、大型艺术展。
As the name suggests, Wuhan, the city's main living room, has hosted major expositions, carnivals and large art exhibitions.
2月7日由“厅”变“方舱医院”，开舱收治新冠肺炎病人。
Feb. 7 from "hall" to "square cabin hospital", open space to treat patients with pneumonia.
它由武汉大学中南医院挑头，该院副院长章军建总体负责。
It is headed by Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital, which is headed by Vice President Zhang Junjian.
章院长同意我们进入武汉客厅方舱，前提是自备防护用品。
President Zhang agreed to let us enter Wuhan living room square cabin, on the premise of providing their own protective equipment.
武汉大学中南医院副院长章军建教授，担任武汉客厅方舱医院院长。
Professor Zhang Junjian, vice-dean of Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital, is the director of Wuhan living room hospital.
（黄宇 摄）出发前，我在包里装上收藏好几天的3M防护服，具体型号未知；护目镜，但是过大，上次戴它，只觉得两侧漏风，但也比没有好；医用N95标准口罩，来武汉十天，第一次舍得拿出来用；医用手套，戴上去很舒服，与手指严丝合缝，像第二层皮肤，而不是那种吃小龙虾的手套。
Before I set out, I packed my bag with a 3M suit that had been stored for several days. It was an unknown type. But it was too large. Last time I wore it, I felt it was leaking on both sides.
我把这些装备都掏出来，忐忑堆到“前台”桌上。
I pulled out all the equipment and nervously piled it on the front desk.
几位护士凑过来一看，“防护服不行，达不到标准”，“口罩什么时候开始戴的”，“今天新戴的也不行，带子太松”。
Several nurses came up to see, "the protective clothing is not up to standard," "When did the mask begin to wear", "Today's new wear is not good, the belt is too loose."
不到半分钟，我收藏的家底被悉数否决。
In less than half a minute, my collection was vetoed.
“前台”准确地讲是个登记处，警察、保安、技术人员等，进入方舱前，得在此处登记姓名电话与时间，体温现场测量，一并记录在案，由一位资深护士把握。
The front desk is, to be exact, a registry where police, security, and technical staff enter the cabin, where the name, telephone number and time are recorded, along with the temperature field measurement, and are controlled by a senior nurse.
2月13日这个下午，轮班护士是新疆医疗队成员。
February 13 this afternoon, shift nurses are members of the Xinjiang Medical Team.
登记处设于一间大帐篷内，帐篷搭在武汉客厅C厅正门口，穿戴防护服也在此间，两侧各是男女更衣室，同样由帐篷搭成。
The tent was set up in a large tent outside the main entrance of Wuhan living room C, where protective clothing was also worn, flanked by men's and women's dressing rooms, also constructed from tents.
视野放宽，武汉客厅方舱整个指挥部都在这片空地上，大门口有警察执守，指挥部帐篷呈灰黄色，医护人员帐篷为白色，几辆“国家紧急医学救援队”字样、上海牌照的救援卡车一字排开。
The view relaxed, Wuhan living room cabin entire headquarters are in this vacant lot, the gate of the police guard, the headquarters tent is gray yellow, the medical staff tents are white, several "national emergency medical rescue teams," the Shanghai plates of rescue trucks.
它们搭成维持武汉客厅方舱医院运转的骨架。
They form the skeleton that sustains the operation of the Wuhan living room cabin hospital.
章院长虽然强调“自带防护”，护士自然不会放任我们使用那些不合规的防护用品。
Although the dean emphasized "self-protection," nurses naturally do not allow us to use those non-compliant protective equipment.
要消耗一套紧缺用品，我心中更是不安。
To consume a set of scarce supplies, my heart is even more uneasy.
洗手，穿隔离衣，戴一层手术手套，手套拽到隔离衣袖口。
Wash hands, wear protective clothing, wear a surgical glove, and drag gloves to the cuff.
接着是口罩，“贴紧”，护士走到我身后，“你这头发，没见过这么乱的，重新扎”，已经开始帮我梳头。
Then there was the mask, "Tighten up," and the nurse came up behind me. "You hair, you haven't seen anything so messy, rearrange it," began to help me comb my hair.
手轻柔地从头上抹过，扎出一个头皮发紧的马尾，又盘成发揪。
The hand gently brushed from the head, punched out a scalp tight tail, and coiled hair.
这才重新戴上口罩，抽紧口罩带子。
Then put on your mask again and tighten the mask belt.
2 月13 日入舱前，医护人员穿戴防护服，这互相关照“战衣”的一幕其实很美。
Before entering the cabin on February 13, health-care workers wore protective clothing, which was a beautiful scene in the "war coat" scene.
（黄宇 摄）然后是第一层帽子，要求不露出一丝头发。
Then came the first hat, which asked not to reveal a single hair.
光是处理头发，就花去足足五分钟，鬓角，脑后，发丝乱飞，令人恼怒。
It took five minutes just to get rid of your hair, and the hair flew around on your temples and behind your head in exasperation.
穿防护服得十分小心，因为它挺脆弱，蹬得太用力会扯破，拉链拉到头，前襟能遮住整个下巴，与口罩下缘交叠。
Wear protective clothing carefully, because it is fragile, too hard will tear, zipper pulled to the head, the front of the chin can cover the entire chin, overlap with the lower edge of the mask.
防护服的帽子覆盖额头，此时再戴护目镜，上扣住帽子，下压住口罩，整张脸就此被全部覆盖。
The cap of the suit covers the forehead, then wears goggles, fastens the cap, presses down the mask, the whole face is covered.
第二层手套戴上、捆紧防护服袖口，再穿鞋套，层层叠叠，几乎大功告成。
Second layer gloves on, fasten protective clothing cuffs, and then wear shoe cover, layer upon layer, almost complete.
护士说，出舱时脱防护服更危险，当万分小心。
The nurse said it was more dangerous to take off the protective clothing when leaving the cabin.
她又扯了几片胶带，在我脸上填空，缝隙全都粘上后，将我推入另一个世界，“好了，去吧”，护士拍拍我。
She pulled some more pieces of duct tape, filled my face, stuck them all together, and pushed me into another world, "All right, go," the nurse patted me.
我朝前迈步，想回个头，没回成，因为全身僵硬，回头费劲。
I took a step forward and tried to turn back, but I didn't, because my body was stiff and I turned back.
穿过三个空间，打开三道门，进入方舱的世界。
Go through three spaces, open three doors, and enter the world of the cabin.
----------更多精彩文章请移步纸刊（附电子刊）阅读点击上面封面图，一键下单胡晓霜2月13日和2月14日，我进入方舱两次。
- - - - - - - - - More wonderful articles Move your paper (with e-Magazine) Read the picture on the front cover. Click on One button to order Hu Xiaoxian Feb. 13 and Feb. 14, I entered the cabin twice.
我访谈的患者中，数胡晓霜血压最高，嗓门最大，眼睛最利索。
The patients I interviewed had the highest blood pressure, the loudest voice and the clearest eyes.
护士在我防护服上写了名字，又写“记者”，除此之外，与医护没有区别，其他人有问我如何用药的，她第一个看到“记者”二字。
The nurse wrote her name on my protective clothing, and she wrote, "Journalist," but no different from medical care. Others asked me how to use it. She was the first to see "journalist."
她喊住我，说她有好几天没联系上她老公了，“跟你们记者倾诉一下”。
She stopped me and said she hadn't heard from her husband for days. "Talk to your reporter."
胡晓霜今年63岁，这是她在方舱的第5天。
Ms. Hu, 63, is on her fifth day in the cabin.
舱里组织“八段锦”，好多妇女跟着跳，她没参加过，因为血压高，这些运动呼哧带喘，她一概避免。
The cabin organized "BaDuanJin", a lot of women jumped, she did not participate, because of high blood pressure, these exercises breathlessly, she avoided.
方舱组织轻症患者跳“八段锦”。
The patient of square cabin tissue light disease jumps "BaDuan brocade".
其实对全副武装的护士来说，运动是件艰难的事。
In fact, for well-armed nurses, exercise is a difficult thing.
（黄宇 摄）胡晓霜家在湖南新晃，1月21日凌晨2点多，她和丈夫二人上了K1804号列车，长沙站，火车凌晨2点43分驶出，早上8点半到了终点站武昌。
Hu and her husband boarded train K1804, Changsha Station. The train left at 2: 43 a.m. and arrived at Wuchang terminal at 8: 30 in the morning.
两个妹妹已经在车站等候，四人坐了两站公交车，到了父亲家。
Two sisters were already waiting at the station, and the four took a two-stop bus to their father's.
出发前，亲友都劝胡晓霜，这种时候“没得往武汉跑了”。
Before setting out, friends and relatives all advised Hu Xiaocream, this time "did not have to run to Wuhan."
女儿也劝，“那个病很严重，不是你们想象中这么简单”。
The daughter also advised, "That disease is very serious, not as you think so simple."
胡晓霜不听，她有坚持的理由。
Hu Xiaoshuang doesn't listen. She has a reason to insist.
今年她老父亲92岁，膝下一儿三女，胡晓霜是老大，弟弟一家本来就在武汉，两个妹妹与妹夫，分别从上海和河南，抵汉已有时日。
This year her old father is 92 years old, a son and a daughter, Hu Xiaocream is the eldest brother, the younger brother is in Wuhan, two sisters and brother-in-law, from Shanghai and Henan, respectively, has been in the Han Dynasty for some time.
一家已经聚齐七口，就等着胡晓霜两口子。
The family has gathered seven people, just waiting for the Hu Xiaoxiang couple.
胡晓霜给她父亲打电话，听到老爷子精神硬朗，言语中对团圆透着期待。
Hu Xiaocream called her father, heard the spirit of the grandfather strong, the words of the reunion look forward to.
上一回全家人聚在一起，还是八年前，那一年过完年没多久，老母亲就去世了，一家人办完丧事才各自散去。
The last time the whole family got together, eight years ago, shortly after the end of that year, the old mother died and the family dispersed after the funeral.
胡晓霜心里盘算，无论怎么样，这趟一定要去。
Hu Xiaoxuang in his mind, no matter what, this must go.
此时电视新闻已将新冠肺炎“人传人”的消息尽力传播，胡晓霜事后回想，却对“可防可控”这个词印象更深，并且一直觉得这个病离她“好遥远”。
TV news has been trying to spread the word "human-to-human" pneumonia, and Hu Xiaofeng, in retrospect, was more impressed with the word "preventable" and felt "distant" from her.
年前的火车票难买，胡晓霜归心似箭，最终买到的票凌晨发车，还觉得走运，好歹买到两张。
Five years ago the train ticket difficult to buy, Hu Xiaoshuang back to the arrow, finally bought the early morning tickets, also feel lucky, somehow bought two.
胡晓霜给我看除夕夜一家人拍的全家福，在客厅，老爷子居中，看上去起码比较实际年轻十岁，脸色红润，笑意盈盈。
Hu Xiaolan shows me the family picture on New Year's Eve. In the living room, the man in the middle looks at least ten years younger, ruddy and smiling.
吃过年夜饭，正看“春晚”，胡晓霜感到“全身骨头痛”，找出“白加黑”吃，早早睡下。
After the New Year's Eve dinner, is watching "Spring Festival Gala," Hu Xiaocream feel "all over bone pain," find out "white plus black" to eat, early sleep.
第二天开始发烧，之后她爸爸也开始出现不适，不肯吃饭，情势急转直下，“后来尿也尿到裤子里”。
The next day she had a fever, after which her father began to feel unwell and refused to eat.
全家人开始忙着照顾老父亲，胡晓霜的病暂且搁在一边。
The whole family began to take care of their old father. Hu's illness was put aside for the time being.
2月2日晚上9点20，妹妹胡晓于到父亲房中查看，发现老人已气息冰凉。
February 2 evening 9: 20 p.m., sister Hu Xiaoyu to his father's room to check, found that the old man has breath cold.
这时距离老人不舒服仅仅一周之内，他迅速感染，迅速逝去。
Within a week of the old man's discomfort, he quickly became infected and quickly passed away.
没去过医院，没来得及做检查，没在新冠肺炎的死亡数字之列，殡仪馆的车将人接走当天，也没有人对家中做消毒处理。
Didn't go to the hospital, didn't get a checkup, wasn't among the deaths from pneumonia, was picked up by the undertaker's car the same day, and no one disinfected the house.
顾不上伤心，全家福上的其余八人全部去医院做检查，只有弟妹一人幸免。
Ignore sad, the family on the other eight people went to the hospital for examination, only sister-in-law survived.
抵达方舱之前，胡晓霜情绪激动，愤慨中夹杂委屈。
Before arriving at the square cabin, Hu Xiaocream was excited and indignant with grievances.
念老父亲固然高寿，本来却还可以活得更久。
The old father lived a long time, but he could have lived much longer.
更因为，做过检查后，社区安排他们住进七天假日酒店隔离，其中她丈夫症状最重，隔离酒店没有治疗措施，她到处求助呼救，无人应答。
Moreover, as a result of the examination, the community placed them in isolation at the Holiday Inn for seven days, with her husband suffering the most serious symptoms, no treatment at the isolated hotel and no response to her calls for help.
辗转间，一位姓吴的志愿者伸出援助之手，为她丈夫在湖北省荣军医院找到一张病床。
Over and over, a volunteer surnamed Wu reached out and found a bed for her husband at the Invalids Hospital in Hubei Province.
只不过第一趟去，扑了个空，因为医院手头的名单上，本来打算接收的病人是胡晓霜的弟弟。
It was only the first trip, but in vain, because the list of patients on the hospital's list was intended to be Hu's younger brother.
床位到手前，弟弟已经转去“武展方舱”。
Before the bed was available, the younger brother had been transferred to the "Wu Showcase."
二人在荣军医院住院部走廊枯坐一宿，“灯是亮的，没有空调，冷得要死，找不到医生”。
The two spent the night in the inpatient hallway of the Invalids Hospital. The lights were on, there was no air conditioning, and it was so cold that they could not find a doctor.
凌晨，胡晓霜给洪山区疫情指挥部打了好几通电话，未果。
In the early morning hours, Hu Xiaocream to Hongshan epidemic headquarters made several phone calls, but to no avail.
仍是吴姓志愿者，为她丈夫重新在天佑医院找到一张床位。
Still a volunteer named Wu, she found a new bed at God Save Hospital for her husband.
胡晓霜的手机通讯录里，将其命名，“吴先生 救命恩人”。
Hu Xiaoshuan's mobile phone address book, will be named, "Mr. Wu saviour benefactor".
2月初改建的武汉体育馆方舱医院（远征 摄）“2月9日下午4点，我老公被送去天佑医院，我就再也没有他消息”。
"At 4: 00 p.m. on February 9, my husband was sent to God bless the hospital and I never heard from him again."
时间、地点，胡晓霜记得一清二楚。
Time and place, Hu Xiaoshuang remember clearly.
进方舱允许自带行李，使用手机、电脑，也有无线网络，舱尽头还有图书角。
Entering the cabin allows you to carry your luggage, use your cell phone, computer, wireless network, and a corner of the cabin at the end.
这些设施于胡晓霜无益，她在方舱无事可干，不看书，不刷手机，不跳舞，但精神头足，就在心里反复回忆那些细节。
These facilities do not benefit Hu Xiaoshui, she has nothing to do in the cabin, do not read, brush mobile phones, do not dance, but the spirit of foot, in mind repeatedly recall those details.
当晚7点，胡晓霜与二妹胡晓月一起，从七天假日酒店获准转移。
That night at 7: 00, Hu Xiaocream and second sister Hu Xiaoyue together, from the 7-day Holiday Inn was authorized to transfer.
共十几号人，上了一辆公交车，胡晓月的丈夫却未能一起，原因是他两次核酸检测，结果都是阴性，无法入住方舱，直到2月14日，仍在隔离酒店。
A dozen people got on a bus, but Hu's husband was unable to join them because he tested negative for two nucleic acid tests and was unable to stay in the cockpit until February 14, when he was still in quarantine.
公交车上，胡晓霜默默祈祷，方舱既然叫医院，总归比隔离酒店好，隔离酒店“有时给量体温，有时又不量了，很随便”。
On the bus, Hu Xiaocream silently pray, since the cabin called the hospital, always better than the isolation hotel, isolation hotel "sometimes to take temperature, sometimes not measured, very casual."
她又给丈夫陆久春拨去一个电话，医生接的，医生说，“情况不是很好，上呼吸机了，不能说话”。
She called her husband, Lu Jiuchun, and the doctor answered. "It's not very well. I can't talk on the ventilator."
胡晓霜心里难过，但没有掉眼泪。
Hu Xiaocream was sad, but did not shed tears.
胡晓霜和胡晓月二人的床位挨着，我跟护士借了一条凳子，坐在两张床中间。
Hu Xiaocream and Hu Xiaoyue bed next to each other, I and the nurse borrowed a stool, sitting in the middle of two beds.
进舱前护士叮嘱，即便全副武装，也尽量保持一米距离，我现在这个方位，与病毒呈掎角之势。
Before entering the cabin the nurse advised, even if fully armed, also try to maintain a meter distance, I am in this position, with the virus zigzag trend.
方舱医院内（远征 摄）我口罩应该没有戴到最理想，被护目镜压住，嘴唇被口罩压住，一说话，声音大半都被口罩挡了回来，我自己听来“轰隆隆”响，外面只有嗡嗡声，不过主要都是胡晓霜在说，胡晓月偶尔补充，纠正她姐姐在日期上的偏差。
My mask should not be ideal, held under goggles, my lips pressed under a mask, and when I speak, most of my voice is muffled by the mask. I myself hear a rumble and there is only a buzz outside, but mostly Hu Xiaoxue says that Hu occasionally supplements to correct her sister's deviation from the date.
胡晓霜床头桌下，塞着一个衣篓子，篓中卷着几张CT片，是她和妹妹二人的，到方舱后，她们没再做过与肺炎相关的检查，不过每天按医嘱吃药，已经不再发烧，看上去不像病人。
Hu Xiaoshui under the bedside table, stuffed a basket of clothes, basket roll up a few CT pieces, she and her sister, after the cabin, they have not done pneumonia-related check-ups, but every day as advised, no longer fever, no longer looks like the patient.
尤其是胡晓月，穿着一着粉色棉袄，说话柔声细气，就像你邻居家一位和蔼婶婶。
Hu Xiaoyue, in particular, wore a pink cotton-padded jacket and spoke in a soft voice, like a kind aunt in your neighbor's house.
胡晓霜则不同，她声音响亮，我闷在防护服里，听她讲一口湘普，毫不费劲。
Hu Xiaofrost is different, her voice resounding, I stuffy in protective clothing, listening to her speak Xiangpu, effortless.
陆久春胡晓霜姐妹二人，床挨着床，多少年没有这样朝夕相处，有漫漫长日供她们叙话。
Lu Jiuchun Hu Xiaocream sisters, the bed next to the bed, for many years did not live together, there are long days for them to talk about.
胡晓月问姐姐，记不记得有一年，她们的妈妈去长沙“比武”，比珠算和点钞，得了全省第一，报纸上就写“鸡窝里飞出了金凤凰”。
Hu asked her sister, remember one year, their mother went to Changsha, than abacus calculation and counting money, the first in the province, the newspaper wrote "chicken nest out of the Phoenix".
胡晓霜当然记得，那个时候她还没结婚。
Of course Hu remembered that she was not married at that time.
胡晓霜能清楚记得有天晚上，领导让她晚饭后去一趟家里，她有预感，是去跟人见面。
Hu Xiaodi can clearly remember one night, the leader asked her to go home after dinner, she had a hunch, to meet people.
先前领导给她透露，要给她介绍对象。
The leader had revealed to her that he wanted to introduce her.
陆久春农村来的，这方面比胡晓霜差一点，比她大十几岁，又差一点，单位待遇没她好，这又差了一点，加起来差胡晓霜一大截。
Lu Jiuchun countryside, this aspect is close to Hu Xiaocream, than her teenage years, and nearly, unit treatment is not as good as her, this is a little worse, add up to Hu Xiaocream.
这亲相下来，女方心里第一感觉是“没愿意，看不上”。
This affinity comes down, the first feeling in the woman's heart is "do not want, despise."
那时候谈恋爱，要组织批准，要办手续，她听说她们单位有一个人谈对象，女朋友弟弟小偷小摸，领导没同意，那个人后来一辈子没结婚，给耽误了。
She heard that their unit had a person to talk about, girlfriend brother stealing little things, the leader did not agree, that person later life did not marry, was delayed.
领导说对胡晓霜和陆久春二人可以“手续全免”，陆久春曾服役6年，政治过硬，那个年代又不讲钱，东说西说，胡晓霜逐渐同意。
The leadership said Hu and Lu Jiuchun can "formalities free", Lu Jiuchun has served for six years, political hard, and then do not pay attention to money, said West, Hu Xiaoshuan gradually agreed.
结婚后，陆久春显露出他的好。
After marriage, Lu Jiuchun revealed his good.
老婆生下的是个女孩，农村里面可能有点嫌弃，陆久春于是逢人说，他喜欢女孩。
His wife gave birth to a girl, the countryside may be a bit of a repulsive, Lu Jiuchun then meet people say, he likes girls.
女儿上学都是他送，穿衣服梳辫子，到外面吃早饭，他跟胡晓霜讲，“你多睡一会儿，哪怕多睡10分钟也好的”，又说，“每天多睡十几分钟，一星期就多睡一个小时”。
It was he who sent his daughter to school, dressed and braided, and went out to breakfast, and he told Hu that it would be good for you to sleep a little longer, even if you slept an extra 10 minutes, and he said, "Ten more minutes a day, one extra hour a week."
后来胡晓霜工作有起色，经常出差，更是全面地当起甩手掌柜，家里的事陆久春都没要她操心。
Later, Hu Xiaoshuan work improvement, often on business trips, is when the overall shaking hands cabinet, the family matter Lu Jiuchun did not want her to worry.
这次到武汉过年，陆久春自己七十多岁，仍是不放心胡晓霜单独坐火车。
This time to Wuhan New Year, Lu Jiuchun himself in his seventies, is still worried about Hu Xiaocream sitting alone on the train.
去年3月份，他刚动过肺部手术，还在ICU住了一个多星期。
He had lung surgery last March and spent more than a week in the ICU.
胡晓霜心疼丈夫，曾跟他提议要独自前往，让他留守长沙，跟女儿一家过年。
Hu Xiaoshuo love her husband, he had proposed to go alone, let him stay in Changsha, with his daughter's family New Year.
陆久春不依，二人结婚四十年，没有分开过过一次春节。
Lu Jiuchun, 40 years of marriage, did not have a separate Spring Festival.
方舱医院内（远征 摄）胡晓霜在单人床上坐起，右手边是她柔声细语的妹妹，左手边是弟弟晓军专门买给他姐夫的制氧机。
Hu Xiaofeng sat up in a single bed with her soft-spoken sister on the right and an oxygen machine bought by her brother-in-law, Xiaojun, on the left.
胡晓霜没舍得扔掉，给带到方舱了。
Hu Xiaoxiang was not willing to throw away, was taken to the cabin.
一提起没有音讯的丈夫，就变得激动，“他讲，我血压不好，大家一起互相好照顾”。
At the mention of her husband who had no news, she became excited. "He said," My blood pressure is bad. Everybody looks after each other. "
胡晓霜在方舱医院学会了打字。
Hu Xiaoxiang learned to type at the Fang Cao Hospital.
这话年轻人听来还觉得不可置信，胡晓霜这些年使微信，都是发语音，有的字一下子想不起来，心里发毛，一起急，血压上来了，脑子就发晕。
"The young man could not believe this, Hu Xiaoshuang these years to make letters, are voice, some words suddenly do not remember, heart hair, urgent together, blood pressure came up, the brain dizzy.
陆久春就替她做决定，不打字了，就打电话，发语音。
Lu Jiuchun made a decision for her, do not type, on the phone, voice.
胡晓霜没有丈夫音讯，就想给他留言。
Hu Xiaoshuan has no news from her husband, so he wants to leave a message.
她花半个小时，发出一条文字，她写道：“陆久春你好吗，你一定要坚强，我等你回家。
She spent half an hour, sent out a text, she wrote: "Lu Jiuchun how are you, you must be strong, I wait for you to go home.
”2月14日，情人节早上，胡晓霜发出第2条微信，比第一条长了一倍。
On February 14, Valentine's Day morning, Hu sent out his second letter, twice as long as the first.
她写道：“陆久春，你今天怎么样。
"Lu Jiuchun, how are you today?
我和晓于、晓月，我们三姐妹在一起，在方舱医院，我们都平安。
I and Xiaoyu, we three sisters together, in the cabin hospital, we are all safe.
小妹夫还在宾馆隔离，晓军在协和医院治疗，已经有好转。
His brother-in-law is still quarantined at the hotel, and Xiaojun is being treated at Concorde Hospital.
一切请放心。
Please rest assured.
”两条留言语气平淡，胡晓霜复述它们时泪眼婆娑。
Two message tone insipid, Hu Xiaocream retells them when tearful eyes dance.
消息发出去如石沉大海。
The news went unheeded.
方舱医院（远征 摄）最近这半个月的事情一桩接一桩，把胡晓霜前面六十多年经历的风浪都比下去了。
The events of the last half-month in the Fang Cavern Hospital (Expeditionary Photography) compare the storm and waves that Hu had been experiencing for more than sixty years.
高中毕业下乡，胡晓霜只待了几个月就回城了，不像大妹胡晓于，下乡整整5年，喝过牛脚印踩出窟窿里的雨水，在陡峭的山上挖过土。
After graduating from high school to the countryside, Hu Xiaoshui stayed in the city for only a few months, unlike her sister Hu Xiaoyu, who spent five years in the countryside drinking cattle footprints to tread through rain in holes and dig through steep hills.
这些苦，胡晓霜都没吃上。
These hardships, Hu Xiaoshui cream did not eat.
她有时会看看方舱里住着的其他人，心里觉得自己应该比病友们要幸福一点，她这辈子，钱没叫她发过愁，陆久春没叫她发过愁，女儿的婚事没叫她发过愁，仔细想来，一直算是无忧无虑。
She sometimes looked at the other people living in the cabin, thinking that she should be happier than her sick ones, that she had never been troubled by money in her life, that Lu Jiuchun had not worried her, that her daughter's marriage had not troubled her, and that she had been carefree.
她爱唱歌，报了声乐班，在家里边做饭边唱，陆久春会说，“唱得不错，但有个字没唱准”。
She loves singing, reporting vocal classes, cooking and singing at home, Lu Jiuchun will say, "Sing well, but one word is not true."
胡晓霜喜欢钢琴，一听《黄河大合唱》就很来劲。
Hu Xiaoshuang likes the piano, listening to the "Yellow River Chorus" is very energetic.
年轻时没机会学，退休后在老年大学报了免费兴趣班。
When I was young, I didn't have the chance to study. After retirement, I took free interest classes.
陆久春非常支持，因为高血压，胡晓霜跳不了广场舞，一转圈就头晕，他鼓励女儿给她妈妈买了四万块的钢琴。
Lu Jiuchun is very supportive, because of high blood pressure, Hu Xiaocream can not dance square dance, a turn on dizzy, he encouraged her daughter to buy her mother 40, 000 pieces of piano.
摆在长沙家里，搁了两年，胡晓霜有时翻起琴盖“叮叮咚咚”弹几下，等待正式上课那一天。
Placed in Changsha home, for two years, Hu Xiaoshuo sometimes turn the harp cover "ding Dong Dong" several times, waiting for the day of formal classes.
前头因为生病错过兴趣班，本来2020年过完年，兴趣班又要开张。
Earlier because of illness missed out on interest classes, originally in 2020 after the end of the new year, interest classes will be opened.
胡晓霜坐在方舱的小床上想，不知何时能出去，不知何时能回家，钢琴课梦想这次怕是又要破灭。
Hu Xiaoshuang sitting in the cabin bed, I do not know when to go out, do not know when to go home, piano lessons dream of this time is about to burst.
方舱医院内（远征 摄）胡晓月找到姐姐谈起钢琴课的轻松时机，劝慰她姐姐“要做最坏的打算”。
Hu Xiaoyue found an easy time for her sister to talk about piano lessons and advised her sister to "prepare for the worst."
胡晓月自己的女儿在上海工作，本来也打算到武汉跟外公一起过年。
Ms. Hu's daughter, who works in Shanghai, also planned to spend the New Year with her grandfather in Wuhan.
她买了1月23日的票，武汉在这天凌晨宣布封城。
She bought tickets for January 23, which Wuhan announced in the early hours of the day.
胡晓霜说，幸亏没来。
said Hu, fortunately not coming.
她们姐弟四人，关系一直很好，不像有些人口众多的家庭，为争点遗产闹破脸。
Their brother and sister four, the relationship has been very good, unlike some large families, in order to fight for a bit of heritage disgrace.
胡晓霜讲她家里很和睦，很少争吵，没想到退了休，却在爸爸的家乡武汉，遭遇一场灾难。
Hu Xiaocream said her family is very harmonious, rarely quarrelling, did not expect to retire, but in his father's hometown of Wuhan, encountered a disaster.
胡晓霜时刻想念陆久春，“本来一家人高高兴兴过个年，转眼间变成在生死线上挣扎”，后来又说，“是我害了他”，后来又改口，“他还活着”。
Hu always missed Lu Jiuchun. "The whole family was happy for a year, and then turned into a life-and-death struggle," and then said, "It was I who killed him," and later changed his words, "He's alive."
世间事，不能假设。
Nothing in the world can be assumed.
胡晓霜说她也不后悔回武汉，如果只能远远看着家人挣扎，还不如现在这样“生死在一起”。
Hu said she did not regret returning to Wuhan, if only to see the struggle of the family far away, rather than "life and death together."
胡晓于当时住在另一家隔离酒店，同一晚获准转院，难得姐妹三人，住进同一家方舱。
Hu was admitted to another secluded hotel on the same night. The three sisters were admitted to the same cabin.
现在她们期盼出舱，胡晓月说她第一件事是要去给重症的弟弟捐血清，胡晓霜出院想做的第一件事我没有问，也不敢问。
Now that they were looking forward to getting out, Hu said her first job was to donate blood serum to her critically ill brother.
罗笙胡晓霜有高血压，护士每天都会过来给她测血压。
Lusheng Hu cream has high blood pressure, nurses will come to her every day to take her blood pressure.
病人进得方舱，护士安排好床位，分发物资后，医生会过来问诊。
The patient enters the square cabin, the nurse arranges the bed, distributes the material, the doctor will come to consult the doctor.
基础疾病此时问明白，大部分病人都会随身带有做过的CT影像，核酸检测的结果通常没有书面资料，胡晓霜姐妹在隔离酒店咽拭子取样后，核酸检测结果都是电话告知的，这部分资料，掌握在上层手里，他们由此决定何时将谁送入方舱。
Basic diseases at this point to understand that most patients will have done CT images, nucleic acid testing results are usually not written, Hu Xiaolian sister after isolation of the hotel pharyngeal swab sampling, nucleic acid testing results are informed by telephone, this information is in the hands of the upper hand, which then decides when to send who to put into the capsule.
两位护士过来量血压时，我腾出地方，走开了。
When the nurses came to take my blood pressure, I made room and walked away.
谨遵护士叮嘱，迈步时抬着脚，避免将脚底塑料袋磨破。
On the advice of the nurse, keep your feet up when you step to avoid wearing out plastic bags at the bottom of your feet.
医护4班倒，一班6个小时，有的护士需要在整个舱里走动，一位护士告诉我说，一班下来她要走一万八千步。
There were nurses who had to walk the entire six-hour shift. A nurse told me that she was going to walk eighteen thousand steps down the class.
我打算绕舱走一圈。
I'm going to take a detour.
新冠肺炎患者当中有大量上年纪的人，他们通常患有高血压等基础性疾病。
New crown pneumonia patients include a large number of elderly people, who often suffer from basic diseases such as hypertension.
（黄宇 摄）整个C舱分为AB两个病区，分别住男女患者，两边人数大致相当，中间劈出十来米宽的空道，医生、护士值班室、药房等都安在此处，打水、借书、向医生咨询事项，男女患者就在这里相遇。
There were about equal numbers of men and women on both sides, with a dozen or so wide openings in the middle, where doctors, nurses, pharmacies, etc. were installed to fetch water, borrow books and consult doctors, where patients of both sexes met.
厅中没有上下水，四百多号人上厕所、洗漱和洗澡，都安排在舱外空地，区政府拉来移动厕所，又搭出洗漱间，再往远处，几层明黄色塑料隔离带，将人群隔离在此间。
More than 400 people went to the toilet, washed and bathed in an open area outside the cabin. The district government pulled up the toilet and put up a bathroom. Further away, layers of bright yellow plastic isolated the crowd.
我2月13日第一次入舱时是下午两点多钟，当时舱内空地正跳“八段锦”，比广场舞平缓，比太极活泼，不过仍是女性居多。
When I first entered the cabin on February 13, it was more than two o'clock in the afternoon, when the empty space was dancing "Ba Duan Brocade," which was slower than the square dance and more lively than Tai Chi, but still more female.
我走得极慢，一圈走完大概花去七八分钟。
I walked very slowly, it took me about seven or eight minutes to walk around.
相比而言，男病区的确要安静一些，我在这里遇到电气工程专业大二学生罗笙和他父亲。
By comparison, the male section is quieter, where I met Lusheng, a sophomore majoring in electrical engineering, and his father.
罗笙父亲一直高烧不退，企望早日转院；罗笙说他自己则毫无症状，每日也会在舱内徒步，通常是吃完早餐、洗漱完毕后。
Lusheng father has been high fever, hoping for an early transfer; Lusheng said that he is asymptomatic and will walk in the cabin daily, usually after breakfast and gargle.
没有防护服掣肘，罗笙步履轻松。
Lusheng walks easily without protective clothing constraints.
能自由走动，能看手机，能上厕所，能洗漱，实在突发其想，按耐不住，还可以去串舱。
Can move freely, can see the mobile phone, can go to the toilet, can wash, really burst out thinking, according to be unable to bear, can also go to the cabin.
截至2 月17 日，罗笙做了一次核酸检测，结果未知，他在等待下一次。
As of February 17, Lusheng has undergone a nucleic acid test, the results are unknown, he is waiting for the next time.
（黄宇 摄）武汉客厅眼下投入作方舱的有A、B、C三个厅，听说A舱和B舱，都比C舱来得大，按编号推断应当不假。
Wuhan living room is now put into the square cabin A, B and C, I heard that Class A and Class B, both larger than Class C, should be correct according to the number.
这里是1034至1461，算下来是428张床位，那么A舱和B舱，平均得超过500人。
This is 1034 to 1461. If we take 428 beds, then Class A and Class B average more than 500 people.
从患者通道迈步而出，往右是洗漱间和澡堂，往左是移动厕所，如果从武汉客厅正大门时来，C舱最远，在最右侧，但患者通道在舱的另一面，因此他得往左走。
Step out of the patient's passageway. To the right is the bathroom and bathroom, and to the left is the mobile toilet. If it comes from the main entrance of the Wuhan living room, module C is the farthest one, but the patient's access is on the other side of the cabin, so he has to go left.
走上几十米，定能到B舱。
Dozens of meters, I'm sure we'll get to cabin B.
不过罗笙只在脑中演算，他没有出离开过C舱的行动范围，他觉得现在还没这个必要。
But Lusheng only calculates in the mind, he did not leave the C class action range, he felt that now is not necessary.
2月15日早上，罗笙走完一圈，头脑里冒出一百个念头，回到床位，万念归一：爸爸要转走了。
On the morning of February 15, while Lusheng was walking around, a hundred ideas came to mind and he returned to his bed.
护士刚才来通知，可以转院，爸爸期盼已久，三两下就把东西收拾妥当。
The nurse had just come to announce that the hospital could be transferred. Dad had been expecting it for so long that he packed it up in three or two strokes.
罗笙与爸爸2月9号晚上9点多到武汉客厅，与胡晓霜姐妹是前后脚。
Lusheng and his father February 9 at 9: 00 pm to Wuhan living room, with Hu Xiaocream sisters is the front and back foot.
只不过他爸爸进方舱前就高烧，之后一直不退，有重症之嫌，几次申请转院，终于得偿所愿。
Only his father had a high fever before entering the cabin, and after that he continued to suffer from serious illness. He applied several times for transfer to hospital and finally got what he wanted.
他们家最早是奶奶出现症状，那还是1月23日，一拍CT就不太妙，“双肺已经烂掉”，罗笙跟奶奶没有直接打过电话，一切都是从爸爸耳中听来，他揣测“烂掉”的意思就是肺部“白化”极重。
It was January 23, when a CT scan was not so good. "My lungs are rotten," Lusheng didn't call Grandma directly. It all came from Dad's ears.
他长这么大，没见爸爸现在这样，一提起奶奶双眼自动泛起泪光。
He was so old that he didn't see his father like this. His eyes lit up at the mention of Grandma.
他听爸爸在隔壁床同记者谈，“最危急的时候，我非常绝望，跪在地上求医生救我妈”，爸爸这几天经常流露出来的焦灼不安让他剐蹭到一些悲伤，从前觉得爸爸无所不能，现在迫不得已，要做这样的事。
He listened to his father in the bed next door to talk to reporters, "the most critical time, I kneel on the ground to ask the doctor to save my mother," Dad often expressed anxiety these days let him rub a little sad, once thought that Dad can do everything, now forced to do such a thing.
方舱医院内（远征 摄）一直到2月3日晚上，社区才把奶奶送到一家民营医院，此时症状更重了，当晚就发生休克，医生说他们医院治疗条件有限，最好是转院，只是仍苦于没有病床。
It was not until the evening of 3 February, when the community took Grandma to a private hospital, that the symptoms became worse and that night there was shock. The doctors said they had limited hospital treatment, preferably transfer, but were still suffering from a lack of hospital beds.
又过了4天，终于在天佑医院找到一张床。
After another four days, I finally found a bed at God Save Hospital.
奶奶捡回一条命，爸爸同他住进方舱，家里还有爷爷和叔叔，都是感染者，住在不同的医院里。
Grandmother picked up a life, father and he lived in the cabin, grandfather and uncle, are infected, live in different hospitals.
一家人在同一座城市里天各一方。
The family are apart in the same city.
比起生死，罗笙自己焦灼的问题在方舱里显得微不足道——感染后，他发现自己失去了嗅觉，不知是肺炎病毒所致，还是药的副作用，总之嗅觉整个完蛋了。
Lusheng's own burning problem is insignificant compared to life and death in the cabin - after the infection, he discovers that he has lost his sense of smell, whether caused by pneumonia or by side effects of the drug.
不像普通感冒，鼻腔堵塞，空气挡在门外，他能畅快自由地呼吸，只是香与臭不再有分别。
Unlike a common cold, with a blocked nose and blocked air outside, he breathes freely, but there is no difference between smell and smell.
意识到这一点的时候罗笙还在家里，他洗澡爱用六神清凉沐浴露，发现失去嗅觉后，连皮肤传导的清凉感受都大打折扣。
While he was aware of this, Lusheng was at home. He bathed in the coolness and lotion of the six gods and found that the coolness of the skin conduction was greatly diminished when he lost his sense of smell.
肺部CT片影像显示正常，不发烧，也没有四肢无力，除了失去嗅觉，唯一证明他感染的是核酸检测结果，两次都是阳性。
Pulmonary CT images showed normal, no fever, and no limp, except for the loss of smell, the only proof that he was infected with nucleic acid tests, both of which were positive.
嗅觉失敏唯一的好处可能是，在方舱这个四百多号病人共用的移动厕所里，他也闻不到臭味了。
The only benefit of olfactory desensitization might be that he no longer smelled in the portable toilet shared by more than 400 patients.
早上7点半放饭，8点左右，洗漱间迎来高峰，十几个洗脸池全满，不过稍微站一下，就能轮上。
At 7: 30 in the morning, around 8: 00, the bathroom ushered in a peak, a dozen or so washbasins were full, but a little standing up would do the trick.
旁边男女澡堂各一，基本空空荡荡，天气太冷，没人敢洗澡，罗笙住进方舱一个礼拜，去过几次，不知谁在里面放了张桌子，洗头正合适，他也听爸爸的话，从不洗澡。
He lived in a square cabin for a week and went to it several times. He did not know who had put a table in it, and his hair was just right.
舱内有这样的单人床，也有高低床（黄宇 摄）转院当天下午，罗笙跟爸爸通了电话，三人一间，也打上吊针了，听他自己说“觉得有希望”，状态与在方舱时大为不同。
In the afternoon of the same day, Lusheng talked to his father on the phone. The three of them also had a hanging pin. He said, "I feel hopeful," and his condition was very different from when he was in the cabin.
罗笙不知道的是，就在得到转院通知之前，他爸爸仍在不停想办法，甚至还给我发过一条求助信息。
What Lusheng didn't know was that just before he was notified of the transfer, his father kept trying and even sent me a message of help.
病人进了方舱，出路有两条，一条是好转出院，一条是病重转去定点医院，也就是许多病人企盼的医院床位。
The patient entered the cabin, and there were two ways out. One was to get better and leave the hospital. The other was to transfer seriously to the designated hospital, the hospital bed to which many patients aspired.
方舱医院收治轻症患者，新冠肺炎是呼吸道传染病，一旦病重，呼吸机至关重要，方舱只备有氧气瓶，病人一旦危重，方舱没有应对设备。
In case of serious illness, the ventilator is very important. Only oxygen cylinders are available in the cabin. Once the patient is in critical condition, there is no equipment to deal with it.
隔离酒店的医疗措施则更差，正如胡晓霜所说，“有时给量体温，有时又不量了，很随便”。
Medical measures to isolate hotels are even worse, as Hu said. "Sometimes you take your temperature, sometimes you don't measure it. It's casual."
都在等，隔离酒店的等着进方舱，进了方舱，又等着“出去”。
All waiting. The quarantined hotel waits to enter the cabin, enters the cabin, and waits to "go out."
挂了电话，爸爸床位就来了新人，罗笙听他跟问诊医生对话，来人35岁，病症不重。
When I hung up the phone, my father's bed came in, and Lusheng listened to him talk to his doctor.
两天后，罗笙告诉我，护士带他去做了核酸检测，第二天再做第二次。
Two days later, Lusheng told me that the nurse took him for a nucleic acid test and did it a second time the next day.
如果两次都呈阴性，罗笙就可以出院了。
If both tests are negative, Lusheng can be discharged.
晚上10点钟，舱里人声逐渐平息，背景音乐变成主旋律，几台排风扇存在感骤然变强，呼呼大作，仿佛空调排风口长在头顶。
At 10 p. m., the cabin gradually died down, background music became the main melody, several fans suddenly became strong, shouting, as if the air-conditioning vent long in the head.
方舱夜里不熄灯，这里没有时钟，时间的概念被排挤到舱外。
The cabin did not turn off the lights at night, there was no clock, and the concept of time was pushed out of the cabin.
罗笙躺在床上，听着排风扇辗转难眠，他想到出院，既喜且忧，喜的是可以回家痛痛快快地洗澡，可以在电脑上上网课，又隐隐担忧，倘若离开方舱，嗅觉仍然不肯恢复。
As he lay in bed listening to the fan tossing and turning, he was delighted and anxious to be discharged from the hospital. He was glad to be able to go home and have a good bath.
----------更多精彩文章请移步纸刊（附电子刊）阅读点击上面封面图，一键下单走出方舱2月14日傍晚，我跟胡晓霜聊完天，打算在舱内走最后一遍。
| | | | | | | | | More wonderful articles Please move your paper (with e-mail). Click on the cover chart above and click on the one button to go out of the cabin.
在舱里时间一长，护目镜会起雾。
The goggles fogged as the cabin wore on.
从我逐渐模糊的唯一“窗口”望出去，视野只有正前方两个方格。
Looking out of the only window I was blurring, there were only two squares directly in front of me.
从一头走向另一头，床上的人，姿态各异，侧卧的，仰卧的，半坐着看书的，正附身翻箱子的，正仰头吞药的，还有看我走过视线追随我一阵的——目光追随我的，可能就是有话想说的。
From one end to the other, the bed was made up of men of all stripes, lying on their sides, lying on their backs, half-sitting, overturning boxes, gobbling up their heads, and watching me pass the line of sight following me--following me, perhaps with something to say.
这一趟走下来，被这样的目光拦下三次。
This visit was stopped three times by such an eye.
梳着辫子的婆婆拦住我，是为了告诉我，有天晚上她出去上厕所，看到外面坐着几个医生，他们举着CT片，在那里讨论。
My braided mother-in-law stopped me to tell me that one night she was out in the bathroom and saw some doctors sitting outside, holding CT scans and talking.
她说她当时就感动，想哭。
She said she was moved and wanted to cry.
三位大婶拦住我，是为了告诉我，从隔离酒店算起，她们已经十来天没发烧了，她们想出去，也好把床位腾出来给有需要的人。
The three women stopped me in order to tell me that they had not had a fever in ten days since the quarantine, and that they wanted to go out and make their beds available to those in need.
最后，一位穿着花袄的小个子婆婆拦住我，是为了跟我借手机，她进舱两天，手机坏了，想跟家人报平安。
Finally, a small woman in a flower coat stopped me to borrow my cell phone. She went in for two days and her cell phone broke down and wanted to tell her family that she was safe.
截至2 月13 日，武汉客厅方舱共有1223 名工作人员，包括医生197 人，护士839 人。
As of February 13, Wuhan living room cabin has a total of 1,223 staff, including 197 doctors and 839 nurses.
其中省外驰援人员1114 人。
Of these, 1,114 were from outside the province.
（黄宇 摄）武汉客厅床位排布还算人性，每两排床设立隔板，有了隔板，人心能落下来。
Wuhan living room bed layout is still human nature, every two rows of beds set up partitions, with partitions, people can fall.
8点左右，我打算离开方舱，但比起头一天的头晕眼花大脑缺氧，果然已经适应很多。
At about 8 o'clock, I was going to leave the cabin, but I had gotten used to it better than the first day of dizziness and anoxia.
赶上交接班，七八名护士等着门口，她们经常一等就是一个小时，因为出舱脱防护服时，步骤繁多，污染区、半污染区和清洁区三道程序，光是洗手就有十多次，而每一个空间只容纳两个人。
Seventy-eight nurses waited at the door, often for an hour, because when they took off their protective clothing, there were many steps, three procedures for washing hands in contaminated, semi-polluted and clean areas alone, and each space contained only two persons.
排在我后面的护士问我：“你每天都来吗？”我说：“今天第二天。
The nurse next to me asked, "Do you come every day?" I said, "The next day.
”她问：“感觉怎么样？”我答：“没有昨天难过。
"How did you feel?" I replied, "I wasn't sad yesterday.
昨天护目镜磕在脑门，越来越疼，口罩带子勒着耳朵，也越来越疼。
Yesterday the goggles hit the forehead, more and more pain, mask belt strangled the ear, but also more and more pain.
今天变成腰吃劲。
It's a waist strain today.
”她说：“护目镜今天不疼说明勒得不紧。
"The fact that the goggles aren't hurting today means they're not tightening," she said.
我下午的时候就因为护目镜，差点晕过去。
I almost fainted in the afternoon because of my goggles.
”我问：“后来缓过来了？”她说：“没有，缓不过来的。
"Later," I asked, "recovered?" She said, "No, I can't get over it.
我扶着椅子弯下腰，多喘两口气，发现还是不成。
I leaned back in my chair, took two more breaths, and found I could not.
就让同事把护目镜的带子松开一些。
Let the coworkers loosen the tape around the goggles.
你不要模仿，这是冒风险的操作。
You don't want to imitate. It's risky business.
”出口处温度较低，护目镜上的雾气逐渐散去，我看到护士衣服上写着“中南医院”。
The temperature was low at the exit, the fog on the goggles cleared away, and I saw the nurse wearing the words "Zhongnan Hospital."
我跟她搭伴进入污染区。
I walked into the contaminated area with her.
跟入口处一样，为传染病设计的“三区”，都由集装箱改造，缝隙处全都用玻璃胶堵死。
Like the entrances, the "Three Areas" designed for infectious diseases are being reconstructed from containers, all of which are sealed with glassware.
我们洗完手，等在密闭箱内，护目镜雾气又起，气喘憋闷的感觉又杀了个回马枪。
We wash our hands, wait in a closed box, goggles fog up again, the feeling of suffocating suffocation killed a return to the horse gun.
高星 摄她问：“你来两天有啥感触？”我答：“感触就是，好想大口呼吸，好想拥抱你们。
Gao Xing asked her, "How do you feel about coming for two days?" I replied, "I feel like taking a breath and trying to hug you.
疫情结束后，你想做什么？”她答：“想去武大看樱花啊。
What do you want to do when the epidemic is over? She replied, "I want to see cherry blossoms at Wu Da.
希望疫情能在樱花季之前结束，我想，游客总不敢再来武汉了吧，武大校园就不会有那么多人吧。
I hope the outbreak can be finished before the cherry season, I think, tourists are afraid to come back to Wuhan, Wu University campus will not have so many people.
我想好好看看樱花。
I'd like to see the cherry blossoms.
”脱防护服最后一道程序是摘掉N95口罩，换上普通外科口罩。
The final step is to remove the N95 mask and replace it with a general surgical mask.
这个瞬间脸上一轻，身上的重压才终于卸掉。
This moment a light face, the weight of the body was finally removed.
走出门去，我手下意识地去确认口罩的位置，它太轻了，仿佛不存在。
As I walked out the door, I unconsciously located the mask, it was too light, as if it did not exist.
（除章军建外，文中采访对象均为化名）作者档案驳静三联记者，喜欢听故事、说人话。
In addition to Zhang Junjian, the object of the interview is a pseudonym.) The author's files refute the three journalists and they like to listen to stories and tell stories.
26分钟前三联生活周刊个人微博、豆瓣都是：驳静请戳→《三联生活周刊》新冠肺炎系列报道⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载开白请联系后台。
Lifestyle Weekly individual Weibo, Douban 26 minutes ago are: Jie Jing Jie Lifestyle New Crown Pneumonia series article copyright of the three Lifestyle Weekly, welcome to forward to friends circle, reprint please contact backstage.
未经同意，严禁转载至网站、APP等。
Do not reprint to website, APP etc. without agreement.
点击下图，下单新冠特刊「准备复工」点击阅读原文，进入周刊书店，购买【新冠肺炎专刊组合】。
Click on the image below to download the new crown special issue of Ready for Work and go to the Weekly Bookstore to buy the New Crown Pneumonia Special Issue.
驳静。
Calm down.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
现场 | “围城”方舱：另一个世界。
AT & # 124; & # 45; The Siege Cabin: Another World.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "现场 | “围城”方舱：另一个世界";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Raid & # 124; & # 124; The Siege module: Another world & quot;;;
var msg_desc = "都在等，隔离酒店的等着进方舱，进了方舱，又等着“出去”。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
