全面禁食？2500万网红竹鼠等待判决。
Total fast? 25 million nettles awaiting trial.
刘林。
Liu Lin.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国记者：刘林“ 在全面封控的过程中，竹鼠养殖户们对未来仍抱有期望，但全面禁止食用“三有动物”的决定可能会给长期处于灰色地带的竹鼠养殖业带来致命一击。
http: / / www.youtheme.cn Liu Lin: Bamboo-rat farmers still have expectations for the future in the process of full containment, but the decision to ban all three animals could deal a fatal blow to the bamboo-rat farming industry, which has long been in the gray zone.
”过去两年走红网络的竹鼠，因为被点名为“可能携带新型冠状病毒的野生动物”，1月21日以来被全面封控，养殖户们在忐忑中等待了一个月后，再次遭遇重击。
Bamboo rats, named "wild animals likely to carry the new coronavirus," have been banned since January 21 and farmers have been waiting for a month before being beaten again.
2月24日，十三届全国人大常委会第十六次会议表决通过了关于全面禁止非法野生动物交易、革除滥食野生动物陋习、切实保障人民群众生命健康安全的决定，全面禁止食用国家保护的“有重要生态、科学、社会价值的陆生野生动物”以及其他陆生野生动物，包括人工繁育、人工饲养的陆生野生动物。
On February 24, the 16th meeting of the Standing Committee of the Thirteenth National People's Congress (NPC) voted to ban all illegal wildlife trade, eliminate wildlife abuse and ensure people's lives, health and safety, and imposed a comprehensive ban on the consumption of "terrestrial wildlife of important ecological, scientific and social value" and other terrestrial wildlife under state protection.
而竹鼠正是“有重要生态、科学、社会价值的陆生野生动物（一般简称为‘三有动物’）”。
The bamboo rat is "an important ecological, scientific and social value of terrestrial wildlife (commonly referred to as' three animals').
2000年国家林业局发布的《国家保护的有益的或者有重要经济、科学研究价值的陆生野生动物名录》中，收录了1591种物种，花白竹鼠、大竹鼠、中华竹鼠、小竹鼠均在其中。
In the List of Land-based Wild Animals under State Protection that are Helpful or of Important Economic and Scientific Value, issued by the State Forestry Administration in 2000, 1591 species are included, among which are Chinese bamboo mice, Chinese bamboo mice and mice.
恐慌等待“一片哀嚎，”当被问及养殖竹鼠的小伙伴们对这一消息的第一反应时，何天水这么说，“看不到希望，很多人都准备慢慢将鼠饿死算了、不再投钱喂下去了。
Panic waits for "a whimper," he said, when asked about the initial reaction of his buddies to the news. "There's no hope," he said.
”何天水是广东茂名信宜市怀乡镇人，这里地处粤西南山区，素有“竹子之乡”的美誉，大量的竹子加上本地种植的甘蔗，是喂养竹鼠的绝佳饲料。
"He Tianshui is a native of Huai Township in Xinyi City, Maoming, Guangdong Province. Located in the mountainous southwest of Guangdong Province, it is known as the" Land of Bamboo.
当地有不少养殖竹鼠的农户，单单何天水所在的益富农竹鼠养殖专业合作社就有60多个养殖户。
There are a lot of farmers raising bamboo and mouse in the area, and only the rich farmers and rats breeding cooperatives in Ho Tianshui have more than 60 farmers.
2014年，曾在深圳打工十几年的何天水返乡创业，在经过一段时间的彷徨后，决定养殖竹鼠。
In 2014, he Tianshui, who worked in Shenzhen for more than 10 years, returned home to start a business, after a period of indecision, decided to breed bamboo mice.
他从几对开始试养，2017年投资了20万兴建了专门的养殖场，到现在养殖的竹鼠已经有600多只。
He started his trial run in pairs, investing 200,000 in 2017 to build specialized farms, with more than 600 now farmed.
“投了几十万，到头来破产了，”何天水发了一个“唉”字后再没有回复消息。
"Paid hundreds of thousands of dollars, in the end went bankrupt," He Tianshui issued a "Alas" word and did not reply to the message.
近年来，竹鼠养殖发展快速，特别是以华农兄弟为首的竹鼠视频在互联网上走红后，竹鼠普遍供不应求，但是，风生水起的竹鼠产业在农历鼠年春节的销售旺季被按下了暂停键。
In recent years, bamboo rat farming has developed rapidly. Especially after the bamboo mouse video headed by the Huangnong brothers became popular on the Internet, there was a general shortage of bamboo mice.
1月20日晚间，国家卫健委高级别专家组组长钟南山在接受央视采访时指出，此次新型冠状病毒来源很大可能是野生动物，比如竹鼠、獾等。
The new coronavirus is likely to come from wild animals, such as bamboo mice and badgers, Zhong Nan-shan, head of a high-level group of health experts, told CCTV on the evening of January 20.
在钟南山接受采访的第二天，市场监管总局、农业农村部、国家林业和草原局联合下发《关于加强野生动物市场监管积极做好疫情防控工作的紧急通知》，要求“对竹鼠、獾等可能携带新型冠状病毒的野生动物，在其饲养繁育场所实施封控隔离，严禁对外扩散，禁止转运贩卖。
The day after the interview, the General Administration of Market Supervision, the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs and the State Forestry and Grassland Administration jointly issued the Emergency Notice on Strengthening the Supervision and Administration of Wildlife Markets to Actively Carry Out Prevention and Control of the Coronavirus.
”接着，各省市也都下达相关禁令。
The ban was followed by bans in cities and provinces.
在全面封控的过程中，竹鼠养殖的从业者们对未来仍抱有期望，养殖户们一面继续喂养竹鼠，一面等待疫情解除后交易的恢复。
In the process of total containment, bamboo-rat farmers remain hopeful for the future, as farmers continue to feed the mice while waiting for the deal to resume once the outbreak is over.
现在禁令升级——从禁止交易到禁止食用，而餐饮是国内竹鼠养殖的主要出路，也是近年竹鼠产业得以快速扩张的根本原因，禁食相当于阻断了竹鼠养殖产业的销售渠道。
Now the ban has escalated - from a ban on trade to a ban on food, which is the main outlet for domestic bamboo rat farming and the root cause of the rapid expansion of the bamboo and mouse industry in recent years.
“下一步不知道怎么办，” 广西南宁大满村宜民中华竹鼠养殖专业合作社负责人农振飞告诉界面新闻，“我们的规模这么大，几千万的投入，两万多只竹鼠，饲料都得外购，这些都要花钱。
"I don't know what to do next," Nong Zhenfei, head of the Yimin Chinese Bamboo and Mouse Professional Cooperative in Damen Village, Southwest Guangxi, told the interface: "Our scale, tens of millions of inputs, more than 20,000 bamboo mice and feed have to be outsourced.
”农振飞早在2009年就进入了这个行业。
Mr Fung entered the industry as early as 2009.
“我以前做别的生意，”他说，“那个时候有人养竹鼠，一两年后买车买房，我就去考察了一下，前四年因为技术不过关，基本都亏了。
"I used to do other business," he said. "When someone owned a bamboo rat and bought a house a year or two later, I looked at it.
后来外出多方学习，从2014年开始盈利。
Later, I went out to learn more and began to make a profit in 2014.
2019年在政府支持下新建了一个30多亩的基地，一半的投入是我们自己的，一半的投入来自银行贷款。
In 2019, with the support of the Government, a new base of more than 30 mu was built, half of which is our own and half of which is financed by bank loans.
”湖南邵东万顺特种养殖专业合作社负责人赵洣铮入行相对较晚，“有两年了，投了300多万，现在养了大概有2000多只，”对于未来，他只简单说了一句，“等通知吧。
Zhao Zhengzheng, head of Hunan Shaodong Wanshun Special Culture Co-operative, entered relatively late. "For two years, more than three million people have been cast, and now there are about 2,000," he said briefly about the future.
”返贫风险和何天水、农振飞、赵洣铮一样面临困难的养殖户广布于两湖、两广、云贵、川渝、赣闽等南方地区，特别是贫困山区。
The poor risk and He Tianshui, agriculture Zhenfei, Zhenzheng Zhao Zengzheng face difficulties to breed farmers in the two lakes, two Guang, Yun Gui, Sichuan, Chongqing, Jiangmein and other southern areas, especially poor mountain areas.
其中，广西是我国主要的竹鼠养殖区。
Guangxi is one of the main bamboo and mouse breeding areas in China.
据广西畜牧研究所高级畜牧师刘克俊估算，单单广西就约有10万农民在家养殖竹鼠，竹鼠养殖存栏量在1800万只左右，占全国的7成，年产值保守估计在28亿元以上。
Liu Kejun, a senior livestock pastor at Guangxi's Livestock Research Institute, estimates that about 100,000 farmers in Guangxi alone raise bamboo mice at home.
“只要可以种植竹子、甘蔗、象草杆、木薯杆的地方，都可以发展竹鼠养殖，”刘克俊告诉界面新闻，“因为不像养猪、养牛需要提供大量的水才能生存生产，竹鼠养殖非常适合缺水的山区作为产业发展。
"As long as you can grow bamboo, sugar cane, straw poles, cassava poles, you can develop bamboo rat farming," Liu told the interface news. "Because unlike pig farming and cattle farming, which require a lot of water to survive, bamboo rat farming is well suited for industrial development in water-scarce mountainous areas.
”为竹鼠养殖业提供服务的广西金诚双丰农牧科技有限公司董事长张文明向界面新闻表示：“竹鼠已经是南方山区里一个非常重要的特色养殖、发家致富的项目，对于小农户、贫困户或者返乡务工人员来说，是一个很好的项目。
"Bamboo rats are already a very important feature of farming in the southern mountainous areas and a very good project for small farmers, poor households or migrant workers returning home," Zhang Civilization, chairman of Guangxi's Jincheng Shuangfeng Agricultural and Animal Husbandry Technology Co., Ltd., told the interface.
”农振飞告诉界面新闻，养竹鼠对劳动力的要求不高，即便手脚不方便，也可以养。
"Agriculture Zhenfei told the interface news, bamboo mice to the labor requirements are not high, even if inconvenient hands and feet, can be kept.
刘克俊也表示，因为可以利用现有的资源条件发展生态养殖，所以竹鼠非常适合贫困户发展。
Liu also said, because the existing resources can be used to develop ecological farming, so bamboo rats are very suitable for the development of poor households.
刘克俊算了一笔账，贫困户刚开始可以投入5000元，饲养10对竹鼠，通过学习掌握竹鼠饲养技术，精心管理，一年后可以发展到50对竹鼠，第二年利润就可以达到10000元以上。
Liu Kejun calculated an account, poor households can just start to invest 5000 yuan, raising 10 pairs of bamboo mice, by learning to master bamboo and mouse breeding technology, careful management, a year after the development of 50 bamboo mice, the next year can reach a profit of more than 10,000 yuan.
正因为如此，在脱贫攻坚战中，低投入的竹鼠养殖业成为南方山区基层政府的优选项目。
Because of this, in the battle against poverty, low-input bamboo rat breeding has become the best project for grass-roots governments in the southern mountain areas.
比如，江西新余市高新区水西镇施家村为贫困户免费提供种苗；重庆市巫溪县鱼鳞乡补助竹鼠养殖户，每对500元，圈舍每户2500元；云南省瑞丽市扶贫开发“以奖代补”，每对竹鼠补助100元；湖南省湘西土家族苗族自治州科学技术协会在基层农村组织竹鼠养殖技术培训；贵州省镇远市羊坪镇竹坪村就以村委会土地入股成立专业生态竹鼠养殖企业；广东省高州市曹江镇将竹鼠养殖作为产业扶贫重点项目等等，不胜枚举。
For example, the Wuxi County Fish-Scale Township in Chongqing Municipality subsidizes bamboo and mouse farmers with $500 per pair and the Association of Science and Technology of Yangping Prefecture in Xiangxi County in Hunan Province organizes bamboo-rat breeding technology training with village committee land.
江西省新余市水西镇施家村扶贫专干傅海生向界面新闻表示，当地有大量的贫困户在养殖竹鼠，仅施家村在去年就增加了5户竹鼠养殖户。
Fu Haisheng, a poverty alleviation specialist in Xuexizhen Village, Xinyu City, Jiangxi Province, told the interface news that there were a large number of poor families breeding bamboo rats in the area.
“山上到处是竹子，”他说，“市场也可以，每公斤160元，一只比较大的竹鼠能卖到将近300块钱，周边做餐饮的会直接定购，都不够卖的。
"There is bamboo everywhere on the mountain," he said. "The market is OK, 160 yuan per kilogram. A bigger bamboo rat can fetch nearly 300 yuan.
”农振飞从2016年以来在当地政府的指导帮助下通过“公司+合作社+农户”带动村民特别是贫困村民通过养殖竹鼠脱贫致富，到2019年4月份，已经有72户贫困户陆续脱贫，在2019年投产新基地后，又有120户贫困户于2020年1月份加入。
Since 2016, under the guidance of the local government, Zhenfei has helped villagers, especially poor villagers, to grow rich by breeding bamboo mice. By April 2019, 72 poor households had been lifted out of poverty.
然而，在当前的疫情下，这些已经脱贫的农户可能面临返贫的风险。
However, in the current epidemic, those farmers who have been lifted out of poverty may be at risk of falling back into poverty.
“除了生产一线，其他全部停工，”张文明说，“做服务的、做技术的基本都不用工作，特别是做销售的，全部停了，整个行业一一季度营收基本为零。
"Other than the production line, all other work stoppage," said Zhang, "service and technical basic do not have to work, especially do sales, all stop, the entire industry quarterly revenue is basically zero.
”一位养殖户在刚获知禁食决定时，情绪比较激动，“当初鼓励回乡创业、脱贫致富，现在刚有点起色又来个一刀切，又得返贫，甚至更贫！” 农振飞也认为，返贫的可能性很大，因为他们的收入基本都是靠竹鼠。
When a farmer was first told of his decision to fast, he became excited and said, "Now that we have encouraged people to start their own businesses and get out of poverty and get rich, we are starting to get better, getting poorer and even poorer."
灰色地带在此次全国人大全面禁食野生动物之前，《野生动物保护法》（以下简称保护法）禁止生产、经营使用国家重点保护野生动物及其制品制作的食品，但没有禁止使用有合法来源证明的非国家重点保护野生动物及其制品制作的食品；保护法禁止为食用非法购买国家重点保护的野生动物及其制品，但没有禁止为食用合法购买非国家重点保护的野生动物及制品。
The Protection of Wild Animals Law (hereinafter referred to as "the Protection of Wild Animals") prohibits the production or marketing of food made from wildlife and wildlife products under special state protection, but does not prohibit the use of food made from non-state specially protected wildlife and their products certified by legal sources.
竹鼠等“三有动物”与其他普通陆生野生动物一样，都不是国家重点保护动物。
Bamboo and mice and other "three animals" and other common terrestrial wildlife, are not the key state protection animals.
目前被广泛引用的《商业性经营利用驯养繁殖技术成熟的陆生野生动物名单》（有54种，竹鼠未列其中）是由林业部门在2003年8月根据一份由多个部委联合发布的《关于适应形势需要做好严禁违法猎捕和经营陆生野生动物工作的通知》拟定的。
The list of mature terrestrial wildlife in commercial operations using domesticated breeding techniques (54 species not included) was drawn up by the forestry sector in August 2003 on the basis of a circular issued jointly by several ministries on the need to combat illegal hunting and trading of land-based wildlife.
这份名单在发布时，明确指出是“首批公布的”，后来不知什么原因有关行政部门再没有后续动作。
At the time of publication, the list was clearly "the first to be published," and for some reason no follow-up action was taken by the authorities.
但是，按照保护法第四十一条规定，其他非国家重点保护野生动物的管理办法，由省、自治区、直辖市人民代表大会或者其常务委员会制定。
However, in accordance with Article 41 of the Protection Law, other measures for the control of wildlife under special non-state protection shall be formulated by the people's congresses of provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities directly under the Central Government.
也就是说，竹鼠等“三有动物”具体如何管理，由各省市根据本省实际情况自行制定。
In other words, bamboo and mouse and other "three animals" specific management, by the provinces and municipalities according to the actual situation of the province.
以广西为例，根据《广西壮族自治区陆生野生动物驯养繁殖经营利用和运输管理办法》，凡从事陆生野生动物驯养繁殖的单位或个人必须取得陆生野生动物驯养繁殖许可证，其中，驯养繁殖非国家重点保护陆生野生动物的，使用自治区林业行政主管部门统一印制的《广西壮族自治区陆生野生动物驯养繁殖许可证》。
Taking Guangxi as an example, according to the Administrative Measures on the Training, Reproduction, Utilization and Transportation of Terrestrial Wild Animals of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, any unit or individual engaged in domestication and propagation of terrestrial wildlife must obtain a license for domestication and propagation of terrestrial wildlife.
经营利用陆生野生动物或者其产品的单位、组织和个人，必须取得《广西壮族自治区陆生野生动物及其产品经营利用许可证》。
Units, organizations and individuals that engage in the exploitation of terrestrial wildlife or their products must obtain the License for the Exploitation of Land Wildlife and Their Products in the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region.
从各省市实际运行情况看，竹鼠养殖户若是想合法养殖竹鼠，需当地林业部门核发两个证件——野生动物驯养繁殖许可证、陆生野生动物经营利用许可证，同时还要有竹鼠引种证明，后者由出售种苗、拥有三证的养殖户出具。
According to the actual operation of provinces and cities, bamboo-rat farmers who want to legally breed bamboo mice need two certificates from the local forestry department - the license to domesticate wild animals, the license to operate wild animals on the land, and the certificate of introduction of bamboo mice, which is issued by farmers who sell seedlings and possess three licenses.
不过，并不是所有的养殖户都有这三个证件，据一位不愿具名的受访者估计，三证齐全的大概有30%。
However, not all fish farmers have these three documents, and one interviewee, who declined to be named, estimated that about 30 per cent of the three were complete.
界面新闻在采访中发现，没有证照的养殖户，有的是因为合作方证照齐全，有的是因为供不应求、直接上门求购的并不会考虑证件是否齐全。
Interface news in the interview found that there are no license farmers, either because the certificate is complete, or because there is a shortage of demand, direct door-to-door purchase will not consider whether the documents are complete.
从养殖场到餐桌的中间环节，可以说一直处于灰色地带。
From the farm to the middle of the table, can be said to have been in the gray zone.
竹鼠并没有像生猪行业那样有比较标准的规范，由于没有相关的检验检疫标准，畜牧兽医部门并不会出具检疫证明，因此产地检疫、屠宰检疫缺位，在省内运输或跨省运输中也缺乏有效监管。
Since the animal husbandry and veterinary authorities do not issue quarantine certificates because there is no relevant inspection and quarantine standard, the place of origin quarantine and slaughtering is absent, and there is no effective supervision in provincial transportation or inter-provincial transportation.
尽管林业部门也会出具驯养野生动物运输证，但是，一方面程序繁琐，时间较长，另一方面，也难被省外特别是铁路运输部门认可。
Although the forestry sector may also issue domestic wildlife transport certificates, the procedures are cumbersome and time-consuming and, on the other hand, difficult to obtain approval from the provincial, especially railway, authorities.
此前，竹鼠养殖业的从业者认为，有关制度的不健全，制约了该行业的发展，并希望能把人工驯养的竹鼠划归畜牧部门监管，进而像传统畜禽一样开具动物防疫合格的有关证明，以促进运输与销售。
Previously, bamboo mariculturists believed that the imperfections of the system had limited the development of the industry and hoped that artificially domesticated bamboo mice would be placed under the supervision of the animal husbandry department, which would in turn issue relevant certificates of animal epidemic prevention to facilitate transportation and marketing.
问题的关键点正是人工驯养竹鼠的身份，这也是此次全国人大常委会最新决定给竹鼠养殖业带来冲击的原因所在。
The issue is the identity of domesticated mice, which is why the NPCSC's latest decision has had an impact on the bamboo and mouse industry.
现行《野生动物保护法》明确规定“国家对野生动物实行分类分级保护”，也就是以物种来定义和管理野生动物。
The current Wildlife Protection Law clearly stipulates that "the state shall classify and protect wild animals," that is, define and manage wild animals by species.
即便是人工驯养的野生动物，仍归为野生动物。
Even domesticated wild animals are still classified as wild animals.
刘克俊则认为，野生的竹鼠可以按野生动物管理，人工饲养的应该和家禽家畜一样按人工饲养来管理，不应该按物种区分。
Liu said wild mice could be managed as wild animals, while those kept in captivity should be farmed like domestic animals and should not be classified by species.
在桂林从事竹鼠养殖六年的田力（化名）告诉界面新闻，“竹鼠已经繁殖了不知多少代，想养竹鼠的都是从其他养殖户里引种苗，我都不知道什么是野生竹鼠，就算附近有竹鼠，也是从养殖场逃出去的。
"Bamboo rats have been bred for generations, and those who want to raise them have been introduced from other farmers. I don't know what wild bamboo rats are, and even if there are near them, they have escaped from farms," Tian Li (not his real name) told the interface.
”。
"
“现在市场上销售的竹鼠基本上都是人工饲养的，”刘克俊表示，“不可否认，也会出现极少贩卖野生竹鼠的现象，但是野生竹鼠价格要高出15-20%。
"Bamboo rats sold on the market are largely hand-raised," says Mr Liu. "There is no denying that wild bamboo rat trafficking is rare, but prices are 15-20 per cent higher in the wild.
只要严格打击贩卖野生动物，重罚、公示，应该可以制止有关违法活动。
As long as trafficking in wild animals is strictly crack down on, heavy fines and publicity should be able to stop illegal activities.
”不过，也有专家对此表示异议。
However, there were also experts who disagreed.
西北政法大学动物保护法研究中心兼职研究员李坚强对第一财经表示，应该对食用野生动物养殖业采取“一刀切”。
Li Teng, a part-time researcher at the Center for Animal Protection Law at the Northwest University of Political Science and Law, told First Finance that a "one size fits all" approach should be adopted.
他指出，人工圈养环境，永远不可能复制野生动物在野外的天然生活环境。
He points out that it is never possible to reproduce wildlife's natural living environment in the wild in an artificial enclosure.
大数量的野生动物集中繁殖、饲养和囤积在有限的空间。
Large numbers of wild animals breed, feed, and hoard in limited space.
它们身上的病毒有了通过交叉感染得以变异的绝佳时机。
Their viruses have an excellent opportunity to mutate through cross-infection.
竹鼠养殖户却认为，竹鼠养殖不同于其他特种养殖，是绿色环保的生态养殖。
However, bamboo and mouse farmers believe that the bamboo rat culture is different from other special breeding, is green ecological culture.
而且传统畜禽有过人的疫病，如禽流感，也没有被全面禁食，何况竹鼠与疫情之间的关系还没有确定。
And traditional livestock and poultry have had human epidemics, such as bird flu, and have not been fully fasting, let alone the link between the disease and the disease has not been established.
“竹鼠养殖场地很干净的，不像养猪养鸡那么脏。
"Bamboo farms are very clean, not as dirty as raising pigs and chickens.
竹鼠本身就爱干净，它们吃的干净，排泄少，自己都会把垃圾从漏风口推下去，”何天水说，“我每天都会给养殖场搞卫生，还得注意竹子、甘蔗是不是有坏了地方，但凡脏一点、坏一点，竹鼠就会拉肚子，我们也不敢给竹鼠乱用药物，他们对这个很敏感。
Bamboo rats love to clean themselves, they eat clean, excretion less, they will be pushed out of the leaking vent, "He Tianshui said." Every day I clean the farm, also have to pay attention to bamboo, sugarcane is bad place, but if dirty, bad, bamboo rats will loose belly, we dare not give rats drugs, they are very sensitive to this.
”何天水对疫情和竹鼠之间的关系非常困惑。
He Tianshui was confused about the relationship between the outbreak and the mice.
“人工驯养已经30年了，这么多人从事竹鼠养殖，如果竹鼠真的携带病毒，也应该是喂养、运输的人最先发病，”他说，“但是，到目前为止，竹鼠养殖圈里，没有听说过一个病例，也没有看到新闻报道。
"After 30 years of domestication, so many people are engaged in bamboo-rat farming, and if the mice do carry the virus, they should be the first to be fed and transported," he said.
”迷茫前路全国人大“全面禁止食用”的决定并没有罗列相关动物名称，同日发布的全国人大常委会法工委有关部门负责人答记者问似乎释放了更为温和的信号，在谈及正确理解全面禁食野生动物需要把握的几点时，该负责人给出了例外，“还有一些动物（如兔、鸽等）的人工养殖利用时间长、技术成熟，人民群众已广泛接受，所形成的产值、从业人员具有一定规模，有些在脱贫攻坚中发挥着重要作用。
The decision of the NPC Standing Committee on the overall ban on food did not list the names of related animals. The press release on the same day by the head of the relevant departments of the Standing Committee of the NPC seemed to signal moderation.
按照决定的规定，这些列入畜牧法规定的‘畜禽遗传资源目录’的动物，也属于家畜家禽，对其养殖利用包括食用等，适用畜牧法的规定进行管理，并进行严格检疫。
In accordance with the provisions of the Decision, these animals, which are listed in the Livestock Act's Catalogue of Animal Genetic Resources, are also domestic animals and poultry, and their breeding and utilization, including food, are regulated in accordance with the provisions of the Livestock Act and are subject to strict quarantine.
”而竹鼠养殖正是在脱贫攻坚中发挥着重要作用，所形成的产值和从业人员也具有一定规模，再者，竹鼠养殖一直为各级政府部门认可和鼓励。
Bamboo and mouse farming plays an important role in overcoming poverty, and the value of production and the number of people working in it have been recognized and encouraged by all levels of government.
2013年印发的农业行业扶贫开发规划（2011-2020年）在规划滇西边境区时，明确提出“因地制宜发展水奶牛、乌骨羊特色养殖和野猪、竹鼠等特种养殖及水产养殖” 。
The Poverty Alleviation and Development Plan for the Agricultural Sector (2011-2020), issued in 2013, when planning the western Yunnan border region, explicitly states that "local development of water dairy cows, characteristic breeding of bony sheep and special breeding and aquaculture of wild boar and bamboo rat."
恭城竹鼠在2014年获得国家级农产品地理标志认证。
Gongcheng Bamboo Mouse was certified as a national agricultural product geographical marker in 2014.
在农业农村部2月21日公布的第一批农民合作社畜禽水产类产品供应信息中，有25家养殖的是竹鼠。
Of the first information on the supply of livestock and poultry aquatic products to farmers' cooperatives, published by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs on 21 February, 25 were raised by bamboo rats.
各地基层政府也从补贴、信贷、技术、规程等各方面推出了对竹鼠养殖的扶持政策。
Local governments at the grass-roots level have also launched supportive policies on bamboo and mouse farming from the aspects of subsidies, credit, technology and regulations.
竹鼠养殖致富多年来一直被广为宣传报道，比如央视七套《每日农经》、《致富经》、《农广天地》等栏目就曾多次报道过竹鼠养殖。
Bamboo and mouse farming has been widely publicized for many years, such as CCTV's seven "Daily Sutra," "Zhifujing," "agriculture and wide world" column has repeatedly reported bamboo rat farming.
“‘如鸽、兔等’，就可以有竹鼠了吧。
'If you are a dove, a rabbit, etc. ', you can have bamboo mice.
若是取缔特种养殖，特别是竹鼠养殖，会让更多脱贫户返贫”，刘克俊表示，竹鼠也算是“人民群众广泛接受”，这些年商品竹鼠的销量一直在不断攀升。
The ban on specialty farming, especially bamboo and mouse farming, will push more households out of poverty, "said Liu." Bamboo rats are also widely accepted by the people, "and sales of bamboo and rats have been on the rise in recent years.
据不完全统计，云南、贵州、湖南、广西、广东、海南、福建、上海、四川、江西和香港等地每年要消费竹鼠600多万只。
According to incomplete statistics, more than 6 million bamboo rats are consumed annually in Yunnan, Guizhou, Hunan, Guangxi, Guangdong, Hainan, Fujian, Shanghai, Sichuan, Jiangxi and Hong Kong.
竹鼠不仅在国内热销，在国际市场也很走俏。
Bamboo rats are not only popular in China, but also in the international market.
2017年，由广西畜牧研究所、恭城县水产畜牧兽医局、南宁市金诚双丰农牧有限公司合作的项目“广西竹鼠养殖制约因素及解决对策情况调研”成果显示，美国阿拉斯加州每年需要从我国进口竹鼠肉，与此同时，中国每年约有500吨竹鼠出口到东南亚各国；用竹鼠皮制成的一双皮鞋在国际市场上售价为500-1000美元，一件翻毛竹鼠上大衣售价为2000-3000美元；竹鼠须每公斤4万元，用竹鼠须做成的高档毛笔，是我国传统出口商品，在日本市场上十分畅销。
In 2017, the results of the project entitled "Restrictive factors of bamboo rat breeding in Guangxi" jointly conducted by Guangxi Livestock Research Institute, Gongcheng County Aquaculture Veterinary Bureau and Jincheng Shuangfeng Agriculture and Animal Husbandry CO., shows that about 500 tons of bamboo rat are exported to Southeast Asian countries every year.
证照齐全的何天水认为，如果担心竹鼠养殖可能带来风险，是不是可以像生猪行业一样标准化、规范化？ 张文明则表示：“能不能尽快确定竹鼠和这次疫情的关系，如果没有关系，在疫情可防可控的前提下，能不能继续允许人工饲养、合法经营销售？”对未来，张文明并不乐观。
Zhang said: "If it is possible to determine the relationship between bamboo mice and the epidemic as soon as possible, if it is possible to prevent the disease from being controlled, will it be possible to continue raising and selling artificially and legally?" Zhang said of the future.
在看到深圳可能出台的规定后，他估判“很可能是一刀切，毕竟驯养竹鼠没有猪、鸡那么成熟”。
Looking at possible regulations in Shenzhen, he reckons "there is probably a one-size-fits-all approach. After all, domesticated bamboo rats are not as mature as pigs or chickens."
深圳人大常委会在2月21日就《特区全面禁止食用野生动物条例（草案）》向市政府相关部门及专家征求意见。
On February 21, the Standing Committee of the Standing Committee of the Standing Committee of the People's Republic of China consulted relevant government departments and experts on the Draft Comprehensive Food Consumption Regulations.
该条例将制定颁布《特区可食用动物名录》，明确规定任何人不得食用或者组织食用《名录》以外的动物及制品。
The Ordinance will establish and promulgate the List of Edible Animals in the Region, which clearly stipulates that no one shall eat or organize the consumption of animals and products other than those on the List.
其中，特区可食用的人工饲养的陆地动物只有10种：猪、牛、羊、驴、兔、鸡、鸭、鹅、鸽、鹌鹑。
Of these, only 10 species of terrestrial animals are edible in HKSAR: pigs, cows, sheep, donkeys, rabbits, chickens, ducks, geese, pigeons and quails.
到2月25日，深圳市对外公布的《深圳经济特区全面禁止食用野生动物条例（草案征求意见稿）》放宽了食用口径，在上述10种动物之外，又增加了“市人民政府决定可以食用的其他家禽家畜”。
By February 25, the Shenzhen Special Economic Zone (Shenzhen Special Economic Zone) Regulations for the Prohibition of Consumption of Wild Animals (Draft Exposure Draft) was released to the public.
全国人大常委会法工委有关部门负责人在答记者问时曾提到，“本决定（即全面禁止食用）的出台实施，可能会给部分饲养动物的农户带来一些经济损失，有关地方人民政府应当支持、指导、帮助受影响的农户调整、转变生产经营活动，根据实际情况给予一定补偿。
"The implementation of this decision (i.e., the total ban on food) may cause some economic losses to some farmers who keep animals," the head of the relevant department of the NPC Standing Committee said in response to questions from journalists.
” 农振飞透露，广西正在统计有关情况，可能后续会有政策出台。
"Agricultural Zhenfei revealed that Guangxi was statistics on the situation, may be followed by the introduction of policies.
竹鼠养殖信息平台“竹鼠先生”的负责人告诉界面新闻，部分省份如湖南、广东，开始有林业局主动上门到合法养殖的养殖场去下达相关的预警指示，让养殖户做好心理准备，也商讨关于无害化处理的补助问题，但是，最终还没有做出要执行的决定。
Some provinces, such as Hunan and Guangdong, have taken the initiative to come to legally farmed breeding farms to issue relevant early warning instructions, prepare farmers for psychological preparation and discuss subsidies for harmless treatment, but no decision has yet been made.
“大家在等待国家政策的最终出台，”这位负责人表示，“为什么要说‘等’，就是因为24号的决定，并没有一刀切的概念，从这里看出，还是有一丝希望。
"People are waiting for the national policy to be finalized," the official said. "There is a glimmer of hope because there is no one-size-fits-all concept for the 24 decision.
”无论如何，疫情发生后，野生动物相关法律的修订势在必行。
In any case, a revision of wildlife-related laws is imperative after the outbreak.
全国人大常委会法工委已表示将《野生动物保护法》的修订列入今年立法工作计划，并计划加快《动物防疫法》等法律的修改进程。
The Standing Committee of the NPC Standing Committee has said it plans to include amendments to the Wild Animals Protection Law in this year's legislative work plan and to speed up the process of amending laws such as the Animal Disease Prevention Law.
若是竹鼠养殖业能够继续存在，竹鼠产业链条的各个环节需要重新梳理、全面规范，从业者要想办法赢回消费者的信心，也有必要采取预防措施以避免再次陷入类似今年的困境。
If the bamboo and mouse breeding industry can continue to exist, the bamboo and mouse industry chain needs to be re-combed, comprehensive norms, practitioners to find ways to win back consumer confidence, it is also necessary to take preventive measures to avoid a relapse into similar predicament this year.
乐观的情形是，此次疫情之后，竹鼠能纳入动物检疫的范围、有关检疫规程出台，更进一步，每只竹鼠能有识别标识，可以追溯产地、运输、交易、销售等各环节。
The optimistic scenario is that after the outbreak, bamboo rats can be included in the scope of animal quarantine, relevant quarantine procedures, and further, each can have identification marks, can trace the origin, transportation, trading, sales and other links.
2500万竹鼠将何去何从？继续销售还是灭杀？竹鼠行业的从业者们还在等待。
Where will the 25 million mice go? Continue to sell or kill? Practitioners in the bamboo rat industry are still waiting.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
全面禁食？2500万网红竹鼠等待判决。
Total fast? 25 million nettles awaiting trial.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "全面禁食？2500万网红竹鼠等待判决";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "在全面封控的过程中，竹鼠养殖户们对未来仍抱有期望，但全面禁止食用“三有动物”的决定可能会给长期处于灰色地带的竹鼠养殖业带来致命一击。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
