死去的蜜蜂，未卜的追花路和无助的养蜂人。
Dead bees, undefined pursuits and helpless beekeepers.
张钦。
Zhang Chin.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：图虫记者：张钦  编辑：牙韩翔“ 疫情阻断了中国大部分养蜂人的追花之旅，他们盼望着春天花期的来到，但是却无能为力。
Photo: Toothworm: Zhang Xian, editor: Toya Hanxiang "The outbreak has blocked most Chinese beekeepers from pursuing flowers. They are looking forward to the spring flowering season, but can do nothing.
”“三百天来九州跑，南疆北国采花娇”，在中国，大约有800万人过着这样的游牧式的生活。
"" Three hundred days to run Kyushu, southern Xinjiang to collect flowers Jiao, "in China, about 8 million people live such a nomadic life.
屠忠诚和妻子两人就已经过了三十年追着花期跑的日子。
Tu and his wife have been chasing flower days for 30 years.
2019年秋天，屠忠诚一家转场回到家乡宁波慈溪市崇寿镇海运村歇息，与此同时大批蜂农们的转场还在继续。
In the autumn of 2019, Tu loyally returned to his hometown, Chongshu Town, Ningbo, for rest, while the exodus of hummingkeepers continued.
但一月份持续至今的疫情绊住了蜂农们的脚步。
But an outbreak that continues to this day in January has hobbled bee farmers.
每年春天，养蜂人们就拖着几十斤重的蜂箱、几百斤重的蜜桶，一百二十余群蜜蜂、一顶帐篷和一箩筐炊具上路了。
Every spring, beekeepers drag dozens of kilograms of beehives, hundreds of pounds of honey, a hundred and twenty swarm of bees, a tent, and a basket of cooking utensils.
有人自驾也有人租车，一路追赶每一个花期，从洋槐花、椴树花到油菜花。
Some people also rent cars, all the way to catch up with each flowering period, from locust flowers, linden trees flowers to rape.
这个过程人们称之为转场。
This process is known as switching.
每到一片花田，养蜂人们就扎起帐篷，蜜蜂们四散去采蜜，二十天后养蜂人将蜂巢中的蜜割下来装在蜜桶里，转到下一个地方。
When they reached a field of flowers, the bees set up their tents, the bees scattered around for honey. Twenty days later, the beekeeper cut the honey from the hive and moved it to the next place.
最后，养蜂人们陆续回到越冬点，蜂蜜也将被收购人买走送去蜂蜜加工厂。
Finally, beekeepers continue to return to the winter point, honey will also be bought and sent to honey processing plants.
很多养蜂人的冬天一般是在云南度过的。
Many beekeepers spend their winters in Yunnan.
这里冬季也有花开，气候适宜。
There are also flowers in winter here, the climate is suitable.
今年疫情影响之下，由于交通管制，不少蜂农困在云南，他们无法转移到下一个地方。
Due to traffic control, many beekeepers are stranded in Yunnan this year and cannot be moved to the next place.
眼下，四川的油菜花马上就要开了。
At the moment, Sichuan's rapeseed is about to open.
屠忠诚的蜂箱和棚屋。
Tu's loyal hives and shacks.
图片来源：张钦屠忠诚还算庆幸，“这算一时半会三四月无法转场，慈溪这边还算暖和，油菜花渐渐开了，蜜蜂们还能采油菜花蜜。
Photo source: Zhangqin Tu loyalty is lucky, "it will not be able to switch in March and April, Cixi side is still warm, rapeseed gradually opened, bees can also pick rapeseed honey.
”屠忠诚的蜂箱就安放在海运村村口不远处的田地里，一旁支着一顶陪着他走南闯北的帐篷。
Tu's loyal beehive is located in a field not far from the edge of the village, with a tent to accompany him southward.
帐篷里，屠忠诚搬出之前蜜蜂采的花蜜，揉成大段面团状，这是蜂群们近来的饲料。
In the tent, Tu faithfully reclaimed nectar from bees before he moved out and crumpled it into a dough, a recent forage for the hives.
养蜂人屠忠诚。
Beekeepers are loyal.
（图片来源：张钦）蜜蜂近来的花蜜饲料。
(Photo: Zhang Qin) Bees have recently been feeding on nectar.
（图片来源：张钦）而另一群蜂农就不那么幸运了。
(Source: Zhang Chin) And another swarm of hummingbirds is not so lucky.
“我有个亲戚也是蜂农就在云南呢，按花期看，也该去四川了，可他们就是进不去，当地不接受外地来的蜂农，我们村这边的情况也一样，”屠忠诚的微信上有好些蜂友群，这些天来消息不断，满眼是蜂农的焦灼与难题。
"I have a relative who is also a beekeeper in Yunnan. According to Flowering Time, it's time to go to Sichuan, too, but they just can't get in, and the same is true on our side of the village.
除了转场路途无法顺利持续之外，还有一部分养蜂人面临着“人蜂分离”的尴尬情况。
In addition to the road can not continue smoothly, there are some beekeepers face the "human bee separation" embarrassing situation.
肖苏珊是一名新疆昌吉的养蜂人，去年11月，她在吐鲁番租了农户的地，露天放置了好几百个蜂箱，留下的白糖饲料只够一个冬天，而肖苏珊夫妻俩则回到了昌吉过年。
A beekeeper in Changji, Xinjiang, she rented farmland in Turpan last November and laid out hundreds of beehives, leaving sugar fodder for only one winter, while the couple returned to Changji for the New Year.
漫长的冬天是培育越冬蜂的好时候，体质弱的蜜蜂会在冬天被淘汰，新的强健的蜂王会在这个冬天加冕，能够越冬的蜜蜂寿命比较长，能挨到半年，同样秋冬也是蜂螨的高发季节。
Long winters are a good time for overwintering bees. Weak bees will be eliminated in winter. The new sturdy queen bee will be crowned this winter. Bees who can survive winter will live longer than half a year, and fall and winter are also the most common season for bee mites.
疫情发生以来，交通有所限制之后，肖苏珊没有办法立即回到吐鲁番。
After the outbreak and traffic restrictions, Shauhan could not immediately return to Turpan.
她每天都在担心蜜蜂们早已吃完了白糖饲料，而自己却无法及时去除螨和喂白糖。
She worries every day that the bees have run out of sugar to feed, but she can't get rid of mites and feed sugar in time.
“一般来说，2月10日是春繁的日子了，我要把蜂王放出来，越冬时期无法繁殖，可现在蜂群们完全没人管。
In general, February 10th is a time of spring and I want to free the queen bee, which can't reproduce during the winter, but now the swarm is completely deserted.
”肖苏珊对界面新闻说。
"said Suzanne to Interface News.
肖苏珊的担忧也是北疆诸多蜂农的困境。
Susan Shaw's worries are also the plight of many beekeepers in the northern frontier.
北疆的蜂群百分之九十都在吐鲁番过冬，一部分蜂农无法及时将蜂群带进吐鲁番，一部分蜂农无法把蜂群运出吐鲁番，蜂种面临着死亡。
Ninety percent of the hives in northern Xinjiang wintered in Turpan, some were unable to bring the swarm into Turpan in time, some were unable to transport the swarm out of Turpan, and the swarm was facing death.
2月13日，一位名叫刘德成的养蜂人和他176箱蜜蜂还是没能挺过这个冬天。
On February 13, a beekeeper named Liu Decheng and 176 boxes of bees failed to survive the winter.
这是来自四川西昌的刘德成只身带着蜂群，第一年来云南易门越冬。
This is from Xichang, Sichuan Province, Liu Decheng with a swarm, the first year in Yunnan Yi Men overwintering.
可悲剧还是发生了，由于田地里农药较多，加之刘德成在给自己蜂群打螨虫药时下重了手，蜜蜂中毒后成群死去，也许是无力承担损失，刘德成选择了离开人世。
But tragedy did occur, because of the more pesticides in the field, plus Liu Desheng in his bees to hit mites when the heavy hand, bees poisoning after the death in groups, perhaps unable to bear the losses, Liu Desheng chose to die.
2月15日，相关部门印发《关于解决当前实际困难加快养殖业复工复产的紧急通知》，其中包括各地方要疏通好蜂农的转场工作。
On February 15, the relevant departments issued the Emergency Notice on Resolving Current Practical Difficulties in Accelerating the Reactivation of Livestock Production, which includes the need for localities to dredge the migration of beekeepers.
“文件铺天盖地，天天有，我们也认不清真假，可要说到我们自己身上，还看不到起色。
There are papers everywhere, and we do not know whether it is true or not, but we cannot find any improvement in ourselves.
”肖苏珊一心期盼的是疫情早点过去。
"What Susan was hoping for was an early end to the epidemic.
屠忠孝则将这次滞留看作是又一次“靠天吃饭”的挑战。
Tu saw the detention as yet another challenge to "feed by the weather."
除了疫情，平日里每一场突如其来的暴雨、洪水和干旱都会造成极大的损失，尽管快手抖音上诸多蜂农分享了沿路的花海和笑声，转场路上未知难题带来的愁绪和辛苦总多过于花海带来的愉悦心情。
Apart from the epidemic, every sudden torrential rain, flood, and drought on a weekday can take a heavy toll, though many hummingbirds share the sea of flowers and laughter along the way, and the misery and toil of the unknown on the road is more than the joy of the sea of flowers.
图片来源：图虫养蜂人没有一条固定的转场路线，花期是唯一的指南针。
Source: Toothworm beekeepers do not have a fixed line of transition, the flowering period is the only compass.
每到一个地方就在花田边上支个临时帐篷，摆开炊具和床具，养蜂人就有了一个为期二十天的家了。
Everywhere he went, he set up a makeshift tent on the edge of the flower field, set up cooking utensils and bedding, and the beekeeper had a home for twenty days.
屠忠诚的蜂友们有的路线是从江苏、安徽、河南一路追着洋槐花走，再赶到山东、东北去找荆条花和椴树花；有的喜欢走西北线，专门采陕西、山西一带的洋槐花蜜，再去到宁夏、青海。
Tu's loyal bees have traveled the same route from Jiangsu, Anhui and Henan to hunt for locust flowers, then shandong and northeast for bramble flowers and linden trees; some prefer to walk the northwest line, picking locust nectar from Shaanxi and Shanxi, then to Ningxia and Qinghai.
屠忠诚的微信名叫“为了甜蜜”，2019年他追赶甜蜜的路不那么顺利。
Tu's loyal micro-letter was "For Sweet," and in 2019 his pursuit of the sweet road was not so smooth.
4月屠忠诚夫妻俩来到河南信阳采洋槐花蜜，可洋槐花刚开就变了天，连着几夜瓢泼的雨意味着今年河南的洋槐花蜜泡汤了。
Robinia pseudoacacia flowers changed when they first bloomed in Henan Province in April, and a few nights of rain meant that the nectar of Robinia pseudoacacia in Henan was ruined this year.
继而，屠忠诚来到山西找洋槐，马马虎虎打了一点蜜，质量也不算太好。
Tu then faithfully went to Shanxi to look for locust, sloppy hit a little honey, the quality is not too good.
蜂蜜的质量与蜜蜂身体状况以及流蜜情况有关。
The quality of honey is related to bee health and honey flow.
一路向北，屠忠诚跑到河北找枣花和荆条花，可去年夏季北方太旱了，连山上的荆条花都干了，屠忠诚不得不作罢。
North, Tu loyally went to Hebei in search of dates and thorns, but last summer the north was so dry that even the mountain thorns dried up and Tu's loyalty had to be abandoned.
6月底夫妻俩辗转到了内蒙古呼伦贝尔草原找油菜花，同时段不少蜂农们去了辽宁锦州继续找荆条花。
At the end of June, the couple moved to Hulunbeir Prairie, Inner Mongolia, looking for rapeseed.
新疆向日葵花田。
Sunflower fields in Xinjiang.
（图片来源：张钦）和全年舟车劳顿的屠忠诚比，新疆的蜂农只需辗转吐鲁番和昌吉两地。
(Source: Zhang Chin) and Tu Loyton, a year-round Zhouchun, Xinjiang's beekeepers toss and turn over Turpan and Changji.
肖苏珊每年三月开始在昌吉周转，和农户们签订采蜜协议，三月的杏花，接着夏日里有密集的南瓜花、向日葵、葫芦瓜花，有时候四月也会去周边库尔勒找香梨花。
Every March, Susan began working in Changji, signing honey agreements with farmers, apricot flowers in March, then dense pumpkin flowers, sunflowers, cucurbits in summer, and sometimes in April when she goes to nearby Kuller to look for fragrant pears.
肖苏珊和屠忠诚都是世代养蜂人，而这接力棒似乎很难传下去了。
Both Susan Shaw and Tu have been beekeepers for generations, and the baton seems hard to pass on.
这几年慈溪市调查养蜂人情况，年轻人不到20个。
In recent years Cixi City survey beekeepers, less than 20 young people.
屠忠诚今年58岁了，随着年龄渐长，转场的路径也会缩短，转场路上也无法自驾，物什多且重夫妻俩也搬不动，自己的小卡车也装不下，只能一路上租六七米高的大货车，这样也有个帮手装卸货，“再过两年我就60岁了，驾照也要降级了。
Tu's loyalty, 58, shortens the route as he gets older, makes it impossible to drive on the road, loads and weighs too much for a husband and wife, rents trucks six or seven meters high, and has a helper handling cargo. "In two years I'll be 60 and my license downgraded.
”“七八十年代的慈溪，养蜂人是第一批万元户，慈溪也是全国养蜂之乡。
"" In Cixi in the 1970s and '80s, beekeepers were the first people to grow bees, and Cixi was also the home of bees.
”宁波天作蜂蜜的董事长金寰对界面新闻说，他经营着一家蜂蜜加工厂企业，“可这么久过去了，现在的养蜂人还是当年的养蜂人，大家都年纪大了，这活儿太累年轻人不愿意干。
"But after all this time, the beekeeper is still the beekeeper of those days, and everyone is getting old and tired and the young people don't want to do it.
”养蜂人一年辛苦到头，普通的夫妻俩也仅仅能挣到10万元。
A beekeeper works all year long, and the average couple earns as little as $100,000.
可养蜂不仅仅只有经济效益，更重要的是对农业的影响，全球七八成的植物都需要蜜蜂授粉，倘若四年内没有蜜蜂这个世界就会有重大农业危机。
Not only the economic benefits, but also the impact on agriculture, 78% of the world's plants need bee pollination, if no bees within four years the world will have a major agricultural crisis.
中国农科院测算过，养蜂业对中国36种主要经济作物的增产贡献，是它自身产值的76倍。
The Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences has estimated that beekeeping has increased production of 36 major cash crops in China, 76 times its own output.
蜂农近来的“滞留”遭遇也意味着农业的减产。
The recent "holdup" of beekeepers has also meant a reduction in agricultural production.
“国内的蜂蜜质量和国外的还是有差距的，优质蜂蜜多是天然成熟，国内还是靠加工成熟，蜂蜜原料收割过来水分这么高，价格自然拉不高，终端售价也卖不高。
"There is still a gap between the quality of honey at home and abroad, high-quality honey is mostly natural mature, or by processing mature, honey raw materials harvest water so high, prices naturally not high, terminal selling price is not high.
”金寰说。
'he said.
在他看来，一个行业没有利益驱动，也无法有更先进的技术投入，无法吸引人们继续养蜂，屠忠诚家附近的油菜花田。
In his view, an industry that is not profit-driven and has no more sophisticated technical inputs to attract people to continue beekeeping, Tu loyalty to the rapeseed fields near his home.
（图片来源：张钦）这两天气温有些升高了，肖苏珊心里惦记着，家这边漫山遍野的杏花就要开了，桃红的粉白的，好生热闹。
(Photo: Zhang qin) The temperature has risen a little over the past two days. Xiao Susan is thinking about it. The apricot blossom, which is all over the hill on this side of the home, is pink and white and lively.
三千八百公里以外，屠忠诚看着田地里零零落落的金黄色，心底稍有了安慰，油菜花会开，春天还会来。
Three thousand eight hundred kilometers away, Tu looked intently at the scattered golden yellow of the fields, a little consolation at the bottom of his heart. Rapeseed would bloom and spring would come.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
死去的蜜蜂，未卜的追花路和无助的养蜂人。
Dead bees, undefined pursuits and helpless beekeepers.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "死去的蜜蜂，未卜的追花路和无助的养蜂人";。
var msg _ title = & quot; dead bees, unknown pursuit, and helpless beekeeper & quot;;;
var msg_desc = "疫情阻断了中国大部分养蜂人的追花之旅，他们盼望着春天花期的来到，但是却无能为力。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
