横店、象山影视城复工在即，但幕后人员还在焦灼等待。
Hengdian, Xiangshan film and television city to resume work, but behind the scenes people are still anxious to wait.
刘睿欣。
Liu Weishin.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
《大江大河2》片场照记者：刘睿欣“ “横店说要复工，有人不理解，觉得大家不着急看剧，更何况还有那么多待播剧。
Some people do not understand that people do not feel anxious to see the drama, not to mention so much to be broadcast
但剧组停工，幕后工作人员就是零收入。
But the crew was shut down, and behind-the-scenes staff earned nothing.
我们也是个人，不代表剧组，复工都是为了养家糊口。
We're also individuals, we don't represent the crew, and we get back to work to support the family.
””近日，浙江省委宣传部印发《关于积极应对疫情推动文化企业平稳健康发展的意见》。
"Recently, the Propaganda Department of Zhejiang Province issued the Opinions on Responding to the Epidemic to Promote Stable and Healthy Development of Cultural Enterprises.
意见中指出，作为拥有横店影视文化产业集聚区、象山影视城两大影视基地的省份，浙江省将加大对影视基地的扶持，加快因疫情防控暂缓创作生产的重点电影、电视剧和网络视听项目的审批节奏，确保如期上映、播出。
As a province with two major movie and television bases: Hengdian Film and Television Industry Concentration Area and Xiangshan Film and Television City, Zhejiang Province will step up its support for movie and television bases and speed up the examination and approval rhythm of key films, TV dramas and audio-visual projects suspended from creative production due to epidemic prevention and control.
对于因受疫情影响停业的电影院线，也会安排1000万元予以适当补贴。
An appropriate subsidy of $10 million will also be arranged for movie theaters that have been closed due to the epidemic.
随着各大企业逐步恢复正常工作，横店、象山及东方影都等影视基地也纷纷将复工提上议程。
As the major enterprises gradually return to normal work, Hengdian, Xiangshan and Oriental Film Capital and other film bases will also be put back to work on the agenda.
2月10日，横店影视文化产业集聚区管理办发布《关于确保新冠肺炎疫情防控期间影视企业（剧组）安全有序复工的指导意见》；同日，象山影视城出台应对疫情支持影视企业共渡难关八项措施；2月19日，东方影都融创影视产业园品牌总监答新京报记者问称，产业园内部已经开始有序复工。
On February 10, the Hengdian Film and Television Industry Gathering Area Management Office issued the "Guidelines on Ensuring Safe and Orderly Resumption of Work by Film and Television Enterprises during the Prevention and Control of the New Crown Pneumonia Epidemic.
但据界面新闻记者了解，在大环境向好的形势下，本该有盼头的电影人却仍在焦灼等待。
However, the interface journalists understand that in the general environment toward a better situation, there should have been a long-awaited filmmaker is still anxious.
停工期间，受到影响的不止投资人、演员、导演……剧组停摆下，内部的美术、服装、道具、灯光也在面临疫情的大考。
During the shutdown, not only the investors, actors, directors... the theater group stopped, the interior art, clothing, props, lights are also facing the epidemic of the big test.
春节之前，影视行业已经在面临自我更新和淘汰，当工作被迫按下暂停键，这场战“疫”又会给影视人带来什么新的变化？在横店某剧组美术部门工作的李嘉已在家停工超过一个月了。
Before the Spring Festival, the film and television industry is already facing self-renewal and obsolescence, when work is forced to press the temporary key, this "epidemic" will bring new changes to film and television people?
之前，剧组给大家的放假时间是3天，预计大年初三复工。
Before, the group gave everyone a holiday time of 3 days, expected to resume work on the third day of the New Year.
结果大年初二传来了推迟复工的消息，大年初三当天（1月27日），横店就下发通知，暂停了城中所有剧组的拍摄活动。
Results New Year's Day came the news of the postponement of resumption of work, the New Year's Day (January 27), the Hengdian issued a notice, all the film in the city suspended filming activities.
图源：横店影视城娱乐频道李嘉所在的剧组原本还剩一个月的工期。
Source: Hengdian Entertainment Channel Li Jia's studio originally had one month left.
因为这场突如其来的疫情，剧组约一半人解散回家，还有一半被迫留在横店。
As a result of the sudden outbreak, about half of the cast dispersed home and half were forced to stay at the Hengdian.
起初他们还没预计到疫情带来的影响，只是因为家太远、不方便、等工资等原因才留在原地待命，到后来演变成横店封街、封房间，不让他们出去。
Initially, they did not anticipate the impact of the outbreak, only to stay on standby for reasons such as distance, inconvenience and salary, and later evolved into a horizontal shop that blocked the streets and sealed rooms to keep them out.
“剧组管吃管住，现在群里面说得最多的话就是‘饭来了’。
"The crew is in charge, and now the most common phrase in the group is' dinner '.
”困扰剧组成员的不仅有停工和封闭，他们也没拿到应有的报酬。
Not only did the crew get stuck and shut down, but they were not paid what they deserved.
春节之前，他所在的剧组已经因为资金压力拖欠了两个月的工资。
Before the Spring Festival, his crew was already two months behind on their salaries because of funding pressures.
停工通知一发，第二天剧组直接宣布“无薪休假”。
The next day the crew announced "unpaid leave" immediately after notice of the shutdown.
一方面尽量缩减剧组的开支，另一方面也是怕拿了工资的人休假结束后“消失”不回剧组。
On the one hand, try to reduce the cost of the drama group, on the other hand, is afraid that the wage-earning people after the vacation "disappear" back to the group.
大部队解散后，留守在横店的只有制片、司机和道具，有些工作人员见工资没有保障，还扣押了剧组一部分器材。
After the dissolution of the big forces, only the production of films, drivers and props left in the shop, some staff see no security of wages, and seized a part of the drama group equipment.
“合同是没有用的，我们这个行业，不知道是圈子比较封闭还是什么原因。
"The contract is useless, our industry, I do not know whether the circle is closed or what the reason.
出现这种情况，只能追责部门长，或者介绍你去的朋友、同事。
This kind of situation, can only blame the department chief, or introduce you to the friend, the colleague.
不过他们压力也大，发不出钱只能自掏腰包，不然他们的名声也臭了。
But they are also stressed and cannot afford to pay out of their own pockets or else their reputations will be ruined.
”李嘉也没法在家云办公。
"Li Jia can't work in the clouds.
那些还能线上开会的剧组，属于仍未开机的幸运儿。
Those who are still able to hold meetings online belong to the lucky ones who have not yet started.
他所在的剧组拍摄工作都快结束了，怎么线上开会呢？前两天剧组还在统计复工需要回横店的人员名单。
His crew is nearing the end of filming, how to hold a meeting? The first two days the crew were counting the people who needed to go back to the Hengdian.
剩的戏不多了，因此也不是所有人都要回去。
There's not a lot left, so not everyone has to go back.
他还在等具体的复工通知和计划，但对于已经离开横店的人，没有发工资也不想复工。
He is still waiting for specific notices and plans to return to work, but for those who have left the shop, he is not paid and does not want to return to work.
不过他想着，“拍摄都快结束了，怎么也不会黄吧。
But he thought, "It's almost over. It's not going to get yellow.
不过也说不定，也有大剧组拍到一半不拍的，我还是抱有希望的。
However, there may also be a big film half of the film did not shoot, I still hope.
”他的朋友此前因为接了一个大导演的戏，推掉了四个要求不那么高，但赚钱多的戏。
His friend, who had received a big director's play, had dropped four less demanding but more lucrative ones.
疫情一来，那四个戏全部解散，就剩实力雄厚的大导还在开工。
With the outbreak of the epidemic, all four plays have been disbanded, leaving a strong lead still at work.
此时，距离中国广播电视社会组织联合会电视制片委员会发布停工通知仅仅不到一月的时间。
At this point, the China Federation of Radio and Television Social Organizations Television Production Committee issued a notice of shutdown only less than a month.
“传出横店复工的消息后，有的人不理解，觉得大家不着急看剧，更何况还有那么多待播剧。
"After the news of the re-opening of the shop, some people do not understand that we do not worry about watching the drama, not to mention so much to be broadcast.
但剧组停工，大部分工作人员就是零收入。
But the crew was shut down, and most of them earned nothing.
我们也是个人，不代表剧组，复工都是为了养家糊口。
We're also individuals, we don't represent the crew, and we get back to work to support the family.
”此前宣布停工的《大江大河2》目前还没有复工的消息2月15日，电视剧《传家》演员何佳怡发布微博称已收到复工通知，之后又晒出在横店旁的定位。
The TV show "Hei Jia Yi" announced Tuesday that it had received notice of the resumption of work and then posted a location next to the store.
但一位知情人告诉界面文娱记者，尽管之前横店出台了复工通知，并列出了一系列复工条件，但真正符合这些条件的剧组只有两个，并且他们也没有真正复工。
But a person familiar with the matter told reporters that although the shop had previously issued a notice to resume work and listed a series of conditions for resumption of work, there were only two groups that really met these conditions and they did not really get back to work.
包括已经前往横店的演员何佳怡，也在酒店内“宅”了10天。
Including the actor who has gone to the Hengdian, also in the hotel "mansion" for 10 days.
根据当地要求，所有外地返回横店的人员需要在横店隔离14天，并参加实名制考试。
In accordance with local requirements, all personnel returning from the field to the Hengdian District will be required to spend 14 days in a horizontal shop and take the uninominal examination.
剧组全体人员都考到100分，才能递交复工申请，进行拍摄。
All members of the crew received 100 points before submitting their applications for reinstatement and filming.
这无疑增加了复工的难度——要求体工作人员同时到齐隔离很难，14天里给所有被隔离的工作人员正常支取工资，对于他们来说也是一笔不小的开支。
This undoubtedly makes it more difficult to get back to work - it is difficult to require individual staff to be fully segregated at the same time, and the normal payment of wages to all segregated staff over a period of 14 days is a considerable expense for them.
此前，横店已经决定对拍摄用户减免一些费用，对群演演员提供一定的住宿补贴。
Previously, Hengdian had decided to cut some fees for studio users and provide a subsidy for group actors.
象山影视城也表示，会对剧组提供优惠政策，包括拍摄场景全免，摄影棚、酒店费用降价30%到50%，置景补贴20%到50%等。
Xiangshan Film and Television also said it would offer preferential treatment to the crew, including a free shooting scene, a 30% to 50% reduction in studio and hotel costs, and a 20% to 50% placement subsidy.
青岛东方影都则在官方公众号发布，免除停拍期间（即从1月29日停拍日起，至政府相关部门恢复拍摄日止）停拍剧组所使用摄影棚、重置车间租金。
Qingdao Oriental Film released in the official public release, the suspension period (that is, from 29 January to the date of resumption of shooting by the relevant government departments) film studio, the replacement workshop rent.
但实际上，这些措施并不会从根本上解决目前影视基地和剧组的危机。
In practice, however, these measures will not fundamentally solve the current crisis of the film base and crew.
疫情发生之前，影视行业就已经处在萧条状态。
Before the outbreak, the film and television industry had been in a depression.
受到腾讯视频、爱奇艺、优酷等平台放缓购剧节奏、降低购剧成本影响，过去一再“求量”的影视公司面临着积压项目不能被发行，新项目利润极低的困境。
Tencent video, Aikido, Youku and other platforms to slow down the pace of opera-buying, reduce the impact of theater costs, the past "demand" film and television companies face the backlog of projects can not be issued, new projects extremely low profits.
进入2018年后，传媒行业政策监管升级，内容监控收紧，又碰上“税补风波”“阴阳合同”等等行业规范性问题，影视公司经营风险大大提升。
After 2018, the media industry policy and regulation upgrade, content control tightened, and encountered "tax compensation" and "Yin-yang contract" and other industry normative issues, film and television companies greatly increased the risk of business.
反映到业务上，就导致了大咖演员不愿意降价接戏，头部项目难开机，影视基地运转难，工作人员薪酬缺乏稳定性和持续性。
Reflected on the business, it has led to a large actor unwilling to accept the price reduction, the head project difficult to start, film and television base operation difficult, staff remuneration lack stability and continuity.
这次疫情对于从业者来说只是一次雪上加霜的打击。
The outbreak is a further blow to practitioners.
春节档作为电影票房的大盘，电影市场全年最重要的档期之一，此次大范围停业可能导致电影行业上中下游一季度零收入。
With Spring Festival as the box-office market and one of the most important filmmakers of the year, the widespread shutdown could lead to zero revenue for the mid- and downstream segments of the industry.
而对于参与其中的影视公司来说，他们的投资成本无法回收，演员的档期大乱，下半年的开机数量还会进一步减少。
And to participate in the film and television companies, their investment costs can not be recovered, actor filming chaos, the second half of the number of power will further reduce.
李嘉说，各大影视基地的优惠政策虽然不能落实到工作人员个人的头上，但对于整个行业是有正向意义的。
Li said that the major movie and television bases of preferential policies, although not to the individual staff, but for the entire industry is positive significance.
只有影视公司活着，现金流充足，才能多开项目。
Only film and television companies live, sufficient cash flow, can open more projects.
有项目才有工作机会。
Job opportunities are available for projects.
象山影视城安委办工作人员告诉界面文娱记者，景区预计将于2月28号正式开园，并迎接游客。
Xiangshan Film and Television City security staff told the interface entertainment reporters, the scenic area is expected to be officially opened on February 28, and welcome visitors.
届时，除可能造成人流密集的场景外，户外的区域将全部开放。
At that time, the outdoor area will be fully open, except for a scenario that might result in heavy traffic.
游客进入园区后，从第一个关卡开始就会测量体温、发放二维码、消毒，之后还有二次检测，尽可能地保障游客的安全。
After entering the park, visitors take temperature from the first level, issue two-dimensional code, disinfect, and then have a second test to ensure the safety of visitors as much as possible.
此前盛传已复工的《青簪行》，也已经早早地在象山隔离待命。
Prior to the spread of the resumption of work, "Qingzhang Zhangxing," but also early in the elephant Shan isolation standby.
剧中演员赵英博、陈哲远均发布复工微博，演员宣言2月25日的直播地点也在象山。
Actors Zhao Yingbo and Chen Zhiyuan are both releasing Weibo, and the cast's announcement was broadcast live on February 25 in Elephant Hill.
陈哲远复工微博截图就李嘉所知，横店区域内暂时还没有出现确诊病例。
Chen Zhiyuan returned to work on the microblog screenshot on Li Jia, Hengdian area has not yet been confirmed cases.
象山除了一开始出现的来自湖北的确诊病例外，也未再出现其他病例。
Except for the initial diagnosis of Xiangshan from Hubei, there were no other cases.
处于低风险区的影视城，复工指日可待。
In the low-risk area of the film and television city, return to work.
“只能祈祷疫情后会出现消费娱乐大繁荣？像2004、2005年那样？做个美梦吧。
"Just pray for a big consumer entertainment boom after the epidemic? Like in 2004, 2005? Dream big dreams."
”注：为保护当事人隐私，文中李嘉为化名。
Note: In order to protect the privacy of the parties concerned, Li Ka is a pseudonym.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
横店、象山影视城复工在即，但幕后人员还在焦灼等待。
Hengdian, Xiangshan film and television city to resume work, but behind the scenes people are still anxious to wait.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "横店、象山影视城复工在即，但幕后人员还在焦灼等待";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Hengdian, Elephant Hill & amp; Television is back at work, but behind the scenes are still anxiously waiting for & quot;;;
var msg_desc = "“横店说要复工，有人不理解，觉得大家不着急看剧，更何况还有那么多待播剧。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
但剧组停工，幕后工作人员就是零收入。
But the crew was shut down, and behind-the-scenes staff earned nothing.
我们也是个人，不代表剧组，复工都是为了养家糊口。
We're also individuals, we don't represent the crew, and we get back to work to support the family.
”";。
";;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
