钟南山：预测的高峰期还没有出现，有信心在4月底基本控制疫情。
Zhong Nan Shan: Predicted peak has not yet appeared, confidence in the end of April to basically control the epidemic.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
““根据我们团队在传统模型基础上加上影响因素，国家强力干预和春节后的回程高峰消除后，预测高峰应该在2月中接近2月底。
After strong state intervention and the elimination of the post-Spring Festival return rush, the forecast peak should be near the end of February in mid-February, according to our team
到了2月15日，数字果然下来了。
By February 15, the numbers had come down.
我们更接近国外权威的预测值。
We are closer to the predictions of foreign authorities.
我们有信心，四月底基本控制。
We are confident that basic controls will be in place by the end of April.
””2月27日上午，广州医科大学举办疫情防控专场新闻通气会。
"On the morning of February 27, Guangzhou Medical University held a special briefing on the prevention and control of the epidemic.
会上，国家卫健委高级别专家组组长、国家呼吸系统疾病临床医学研究中心主任钟南山院士介绍了目前新冠状病毒肺炎的一些基本情况。
At the meeting, Professor Zhong Nan-shan, head of the high-level group of experts of the National Health Commission and director of the National Clinical Research Centre for Respiratory Diseases, introduced some basic facts of the present coronavirus pneumonia.
以下为钟南山谈话要点。
Here are the talking points of Zhong Nan Shan.
谈疫情控制：有信心四月底基本控制疫情27日，钟南山院士在广州医科大学疫情防控专场新闻通气会上表示，“根据我们团队在传统模型基础上加上影响因素，国家强力干预和春节后的回程高峰消除后，预测高峰应该在2月中接近2月底。
Speaking of epidemic control: confidence in basic control of the epidemic at the end of April 27, academician Zhong Nan Shan told a news briefing on the prevention and control of epidemic diseases at Guangzhou Medical University.
到了2月15日，数字果然下来了。
By February 15, the numbers had come down.
我们更接近国外权威的预测值。
We are closer to the predictions of foreign authorities.
我们有信心，四月底基本控制。
We are confident that basic controls will be in place by the end of April.
”Play钟南山院士：预计4月底基本控制新冠肺炎疫情。
Academician Play Zhong Nam Shan: The outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia is expected to be largely contained by the end of April.
谈病情反复：治愈患者一般不会出现再感染钟南山回应出院者复检核酸呈阳性：治愈患者一般不会出现再感染。
Repetitive: Cure patients generally do not reinfect Zhong Nan Shan in response to discharged patients retested nucleic acid positive: Healing patients generally do not re-infection.
如果病人体内出现足够量的抗体，一般病人不会再感染，这是规律，至于肠道粪便里有残余，还会不会再传染其他人，这是我们有待观察的。
If there is enough antibody in the patient, the patient will not be infected again, which is the rule. It remains to be seen whether there is any residue in intestinal feces that will infect others again.
谈武汉：对武汉的疑似病人，迫在眉睫的是诊断。
Wuhan: Suspected patients in Wuhan, the urgent need for diagnosis.
武汉之外的城市并没有出现大规模爆发钟南山表示，在武汉大量的疑似病人，迫在眉睫的是诊断。
Wuhan outside the city has not seen a large-scale outbreak of Zhong Nan Shan, in Wuhan, a large number of suspected patients, urgent diagnosis.
在美国大量的流感病人也出现了死亡，我们加速了研发和临床验证。
A large number of flu patients have also died in the United States, and we have accelerated research and development and clinical trials.
如何在短时间鉴别新冠病毒和流感，这是非常重要的。
How to identify the new crown virus and flu in a short time is very important.
第二个是要考虑怎样更好确诊，除了核酸检测以外，还给他做IgM抗体，对疑似病人进行IgM是很好的辅助手段。
The second is to consider how to better diagnose, in addition to nucleic acid testing, but also to do IgM antibody, suspected patients are a good assistant means of IgM.
武汉出现了大规模爆发，但是在其他城市，并不是大规模的爆发。
Wuhan has seen a large-scale outbreak, but in other cities, it is not a large-scale outbreak.
这与以往传染性很高的疫情很不一样。
This is very different from the epidemic, which used to be highly contagious.
我们看起来，一个人能传染大概2-3人之间，说明传染的很快。
It seems to us that a person can infect between 2 and 3 people, indicating that the infection is rapid.
严重的病情传染性还会更强。
Serious cases can be more contagious.
谈新冠肺炎药物：一个月能够研发出针对新冠肺炎的新药是不可能的钟南山表示，在十几天、二十天甚至一个月能够研发出针对新冠肺炎的新药是不可能的，需要进行持续的科学研究。
CHUNG Nan-shan, who says it is impossible to develop a new drug for pneumonia in a month, says it is impossible to develop a new drug for pneumonia in a decade, 20 days or even a month.
在预防方面，钟南山表示目前也组织了多组治疗方案。
In terms of prevention, Zhong Nan-shan says several groups of treatment programs are also being organized.
一些重要的治疗方案病毒转移的时间都是在5-7、8天，不会超过10天。
Some important treatment regimens have a virus metastasis time of 5-7, 8 days, not more than 10 days.
“大敌当天，用现有的安全的药是完全对的，空白对照在医学伦理上也说不过去。
"On the same day, the use of the existing safety drugs is completely correct, blank control in medical ethics can not be justified.
这些药物方案，我们初步观察磷酸氯喹的治疗效果好一些，但是还有待观察。
These drug regimen, we initially observe chloroquine phosphate treatment better, but it remains to be seen.
接下来会进行认真的对照实验。
This will be followed by a careful controlled experiment.
”谈经验：建议疫情发展较快的国家参考中国的处置方式和经验，早发现早隔离。
Talk about experience: It is recommended that countries with fast-growing epidemics refer to China's disposal methods and experience and find early isolation.
本周末将向欧洲呼吸学会做视频报告介绍中国经验钟南山说：“现在的问题，中国的增加的病例已经少于国外增加的病例。
"The problem is that there are fewer cases in China than in any other country," Zhong Nan-shan, the European Respiratory Society's video presentation this weekend, said.
国外比较突出的是韩国、伊朗和意大利，可能中国的一些做法有一些启发。
Foreign countries are more prominent South Korea, Iran and Italy, perhaps some of China's practices have some inspiration.
所以我这周末将应邀向欧洲呼吸学会做一个视频报告。
So this weekend I will be invited to give a video presentation to the European Respiratory Society.
这是人类的病，不是国家的病。
This is a human disease, not a national disease.
所以广州和哈佛大学、多伦多大学有临床试验的药品已经寄来了。
So drugs for clinical trials have arrived at the universities of Guangzhou and Harvard and Toronto.
我们也很感谢企业，包括恒大，帮助联系和哈佛大学的沟通。
We are also grateful to businesses, including Hang Da, for helping to connect with Harvard University.
”谈病毒来源：疫情首先出现在中国，疫情不一定发源在中国钟南山称：对疫情的预测，我们首先考虑中国，没考虑国外，现在国外出现一些情况，疫情首先出现在中国，不一定是发源在中国。
To predict the outbreak, we should first consider China instead of foreign countries. Now there are some situations abroad where the outbreak first appeared in China, not necessarily in China, said Zhong Nan Shan, the source of the outbreak.
钟南山表示，我们这个世纪已经有三次冠状病毒感染，所以凡是发现冠状病毒感染，凡是一看有聚集性，马上要非常严格处理。
Zhong Nan Shan said that we have been infected with coronavirus three times this century, so whenever we find a coronavirus infection, we must deal with it very strictly at a glance.
此次的新冠病毒到底是怎么来的，目前还是不清楚，以前是不是早已存在我们也不知道，中间宿主应该不只有穿山甲一种。
How the new crown virus got here is still unclear, whether there was a long time ago we do not know, the intermediate host should not be just a pangolin.
谈病症鉴别：鉴别新冠肺炎和流感非常重要钟南山表示，如何在很短时间内鉴别新冠肺炎和流感，这是非常重要的，因为大家症状相似，CT大同小异，这种过程很像。
Distinguishing between New Crown Pneumonia and Influenza: Zhong Nan-shan said it was important to identify pneumonia and flu in a short time because people had similar symptoms, CT was similar and the process was similar.
流感造成的肺炎每年有很多，搞不好把它都混在新冠肺炎中，不是也变成是了。
There are so many cases of pneumonia caused by influenza every year that you might not be able to mix it all up with pneumonia.
谈疫情预测：我们预测高峰还没有出现。
Talk about outbreak forecasting: We don't predict a peak yet.
投到权威期刊被退了回来钟南山表示，现在复工回流高峰，之前我们的预测模型是回流之后又出现一个高峰，现在是27号，我们预测高峰还没有出现。
'The return to work is at its peak, 'says Mr. Zhong, who returned to authoritative journals.' Our prediction model was that there was a peak after reflux, and now it's number 27, and we don't expect peaks yet.
钟南山说，疫情开始时，国外有流行病学家用权威的试验模型，预测2月初，中国感染新冠肺炎人数将达16万人。
When the outbreak began, experimental models from outside the country were available, Zhong said, predicting that by early February the number of new cases of pneumonia in China would reach 160,000.
钟南山说：“这是没有考虑到国家的强力干预，也没有考虑春节后的延迟复工，我们也做了预测模型，2月中旬或下旬达到疫情高峰，确诊病例约六、七万人，投到国外权威期刊，被退了回来，感觉和上面的预测水平差太多，还有人给我微信‘你的话几天之内就会被碾个粉碎’。
"It didn't take into account the state's strong intervention or the delayed resumption of work after the Spring Festival," Zhong said. "We also made a prediction model, reaching a peak in mid-February or late February, some 60,000 to 70,000 people were sent back to authoritative foreign journals.
但事实上，我们预测更接近权威。
But, in fact, our predictions are closer to authority.
谈疾控中心：疾控中心的特殊并没有得到重视钟南山表示，中国疾控中心地位太低了，只是卫健委领导下的技术部门，而在国外，疾控中心能够直通中央，甚至直接向社会公布。
Talking about the CDC: CDC's uniqueness isn't valued Zhong Nan Shan said China's CDC status is too low, just a technical department under the leadership of the Wei Bodyguard Commission, while abroad, the CDC can reach the central or even directly to the public.
他表示，从早期情况看，已经有人传人、医务人员感染现象，但是疾控中心只能上报，没有向社会公布疫情的权利。
Early on, he said, there had been human-to-human and medical infections, but the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention could only report the disease, not to the public.
他建议，疾控中心要有一定的行政权。
He suggested that the CDC should have some executive power.
谈病毒传播渠道：目前没有任何证据证明病毒经消化道传播钟南山表示，现在没有任何证据证明病毒经消化道传播，所以还是要做好呼吸道的防护。
Channels of transmission: There is no evidence that the virus travels through the digestive tract, says Zhong Nan-shan. There is no evidence that the virus passes through the digestive tract.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
钟南山：预测的高峰期还没有出现，有信心在4月底基本控制疫情。
Zhong Nan Shan: Predicted peak has not yet appeared, confidence in the end of April to basically control the epidemic.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "钟南山：预测的高峰期还没有出现，有信心在4月底基本控制疫情";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Zhong Nan Shan: The predicted peak hasn't come yet, and is confident that it largely controlled AT & quot; by the end of April.
var msg_desc = "，“根据我们团队在传统模型基础上加上影响因素，国家强力干预和春节后的回程高峰消除后，预测高峰应该在2月中接近2月底。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "With our team adding impact to its traditional model, the peak forecast should be near the end of February in mid-February, after strong state intervention and a post-Spring Festival return peak.
到了2月15日，数字果然下来了。
By February 15, the numbers had come down.
我们更接近国外权威的预测值。
We are closer to the predictions of foreign authorities.
我们有信心，四月底基本控制。
We are confident that basic controls will be in place by the end of April.
”";。
";;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
