莆田确诊一超长潜伏期病例，发病前29天内未出现任何症状。
Putian confirmed an ultralincubation period, 29 days before the onset of any symptoms.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：图虫“ 莆田确诊一超长潜伏期病例，发病前29天内未出现任何症状。
Photo source: "Putian diagnosis of an extremely long incubation period, 29 days before the onset of any symptoms.
”2020年2月27日，福建省莆田市卫健委通报新冠肺炎疫情显示，一确诊病例自湖北返莆后29天内未出现任何症状。
On February 27, 2020, the Putian City Health Commission of Fujian Province informed Putian City that a confirmed case of pneumonia showed no symptoms within 29 days of returning to Po, Hubei Province.
通报称，2020年2月14日24时—2月26日24时，莆田市报告新增新型冠状病毒肺炎确诊病例1例（荔城区1例)，患者张某，男，36岁，湖北孝感籍人，1月25日自湖北孝感返莆，返莆后未接触其他可疑新冠病例，2月24日发病。
From 2400 hours on 14 February to 2400 hours on 26 February 2020, a new confirmed case of coronavirus pneumonia was reported in Putian city (1 case in Laicheng District). The patient, Zhang Mou, male, 36 years old, a filial Hubei native, returned to Po from Hubei province on January 25.
莆田市卫健委透露，已按规定公布该病例在发病期间活动过的村庄和场所。
Putian City health committee revealed that the regulations have been published in the case of activities during the village and location.
目前，确诊病例正在隔离治疗，其在莆密切接触者正在接受医学观察。
Currently, confirmed cases are being treated in isolation and their close contacts in Po are under medical observation.
此前，国内一些省份曾通报多起新冠肺炎超长潜伏期病例。
Prior to this, some provinces of the country had notified many cases of SARS super latency.
如2月17日上午，广东省河源市公布一例确诊病例，患者从武汉坐火车回河源，于2月8日解除14天医学观察，6天后开始无明显诱因出现咳嗽，并最终确诊；山东省日照市刘某因曾接触确诊病例，于1月20日和一家四口被隔离，期间无异常，然而在隔离结束10天后，刘某开始出现咳嗽、发热等症状，于2月15日确诊感染新冠肺炎。
For example, on February 17 morning, a confirmed case was reported in Heyuan, Guangdong Province. The patient returned to Heyuan by train from Wuhan on February 8. He was released from medical observation for 14 days.
关于新冠病毒潜伏期，此前官方公布的《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案（试行第五版）》显示，基于目前的流行病学调查，其潜伏期为1-14天，多为3-7天。
With regard to the incubation period of the new coronavirus, the previously published "Pneumonia Diagnosis and Treatment of New Coronavirus Infection (Trial Version 5)" shows that, based on current epidemiological investigations, the incubation period is 1-14 days, mostly 3-7 days.
这也是各地要求人们隔离14天以确认是否被感染的标准。
It is also the standard around the world that requires people to be quarantined for 14 days to find out if they are infected.
中国工程院院士钟南山团队的一篇研究论文显示，新冠肺炎的中位潜伏期为3天，最长可达24天。
The median incubation period for new crown pneumonia is three days, up to a maximum of 24 days, according to a study by the Zhong Nan Shan team of the Chinese Academy of Engineering.
钟南山对此表示，这项研究结果表明，新型冠状病毒的潜伏期两极分化较为严重，患者的潜伏期长短不一。
Zhong Nan-shan said the study showed that the latent period of the new coronavirus polarization is serious and the incubation period of patients varies.
北京化工大学生命科学与技术学院院长童贻刚曾对界面新闻表示，只有极个别的的病例会出现潜伏期增长的情况。
Tong Yigang, dean of the Institute of Life Sciences and Technology at Beijing Chemical University, told Interface News that there were only a few cases of latent period increase.
中国疾病预防控制中心原副主任杨功焕也表示，虽然现在没法确认新冠病毒超长潜伏期是否真的存在，但可以确定，这种病例所占的比例并不高。
Yang Kun-hwan, former deputy director of the China Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, also said that while it was impossible to confirm whether the new crown virus had an unusually long incubation period, it could be determined that the proportion of such cases was not high.
莆田市卫健委在通报中表示，无法早期发现无症状感染者、超长潜伏期病例这类传染源，给疫情防控带来严峻挑战，勤洗手、戴口罩、常通风、少串门、勿聚集是公众自我防护科学有效的措施。
The inability to identify asymptomatic infections such as asymptomatic infections and prolonged latency cases poses a serious challenge to the prevention and control of the disease, Putian Health Commission said in its circular that frequent hand washing, mask wearing, frequent ventilation, less door-to-door and non-aggregation are scientifically effective measures for public self-defense.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
莆田确诊一超长潜伏期病例，发病前29天内未出现任何症状。
Putian confirmed an ultralincubation period, 29 days before the onset of any symptoms.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "莆田确诊一超长潜伏期病例，发病前29天内未出现任何症状";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Putian was diagnosed with an unusually long incubation period and did not show any symptoms or quotations during the 29 days preceding onset of symptoms;;
var msg_desc = "莆田确诊一超长潜伏期病例，发病前29天内未出现任何症状。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Putian was diagnosed with an unusually long incubation period and showed no symptoms for 29 days before onset.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
