口罩“心脏”熔喷布这么缺，为什么厂商不借机上产线、扩产能？。
Mask "heart" molten cloth is so lacking, why does the manufacturer not borrow machine production line, expand production capacity?
彭强。
Peng Qiang.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国记者：彭强“ 熔喷布设备供应周期更长，跨界生产的难度、要求和风险也更大。
Source: China Visual Correspondent: Peng Qiang has a longer supply cycle for melt-jet equipment and the difficulty, requirements and risks of cross-border production.
”“除了熔喷布，其他的都好说。
"" Everything but the molten cloth is easy to say.
”在某口罩货源共享交流群里，一位生产商这样表示。
One manufacturer said in a group where the supply of masks was shared.
该群里汇集了百余位口罩产业上下游的相关厂家。
The group gathers more than 100 mask industry upstream and downstream related manufacturers.
它们会在群里交流与口罩相关的信息。
They exchange information about the mask in the group.
耳带、鼻梁条等物资的价格虽也在上涨，但货源并不紧缺。
Ear belt, nose beam and other materials prices are also rising, but the supply of goods is not in short supply.
唯独生产口罩的关键原材料——熔喷布，陷入十分强势的卖方市场。
Only the key raw materials for the production of masks - melting cloth, into a very strong seller's market.
医用N95口罩用的熔喷布，目前要价普遍来到了20万元/吨以上，对比疫情初期的价格，翻了十倍有余。
At present, the price of medical N95 mask is over 200,000 yuan per ton, which is more than ten times more than the initial price of the epidemic.
“医用N95口罩用的熔喷布，仅剩1吨，有需要速来联系。
"There's only one ton of spray left on the medical N95 mask. We need to get in touch soon.
”一位厂商在群内发出信息。
One manufacturer sends messages within the group.
同时，他也提醒其他商家，注意采购的熔喷布是否符合医用标准，小心上当受骗。
At the same time, he also reminded other businesses to pay attention to the purchase of spray cloth to meet medical standards, be careful to be deceived.
他表示，因不了解行业信息，又着急获得货源，此前已有多名厂商高价买进不符合医用口罩生产标准的熔喷布，白白承担了数十万元的损失。
He said he was anxious to get supplies because he didn't know the industry and had already incurred hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of losses by buying melts that did not meet medical mask production standards at high prices.
随着各地口罩生产线的快速上马，口罩产量在近期有了快递提升。
With the rapid implementation of mask production lines around the world, the production of masks has recently been enhanced express delivery.
据国家发改委最新数据，截至2月22日，国内口罩日产量已达5477万只，较2月1日增长2.8倍；近20天以来，已累计生产口罩5.7亿只。
According to the latest figures from the National Development and Reform Commission, as of February 22, China had 54.77 million masks a day, 2.8 times more than on February 1, and 570 million face masks had been produced in the past 20 days.
但依然有不少网友表示，自己买不到口罩。
Still, many netizens said they could not buy masks.
上游熔喷布遭遇供应瓶颈，已成为限制口罩产量的重要因素，且这一缺口仍在扩大。
Supply bottlenecks in upstream vents have been an important factor limiting mask production, and the gap is still widening.
在巨大需求刺激下，中石油、中石化、富士康、上汽通用五菱、比亚迪等诸多厂商纷纷跨界生产口罩，石化企业也加大了上游原材料聚丙烯的供应力度。
PetroChina, Sinopec, Foxconn, SAIC General Wuling, BYD and many others have been producing masks across the border, while petrochemical companies have increased their supply of upstream raw materials, polypropylene.
但为何少见新上马熔喷布生产线或扩产的消息？据界面新闻记者了解，这主要因受限于生产设备交货周期长、人员操作技术要求高等原因，熔喷布产能很难在短时间内快速提升。
But why is there so little news about the new production line or expansion? According to the Interface reporter, this is mainly due to the long delivery cycle of production equipment, high personnel operating technology requirements, melting spray production capacity is difficult to rapidly improve in a short time.
熔喷布，全称熔喷无纺布，是为口罩带来病毒过滤作用的关键材料。
Melting cloth, fully known as melt sprayed nonwoven fabric, is the key material for the mask viral filtration.
其拥有带静电的超细纤维，除了阻挡较大粉尘颗粒外，还可以通过表面的静电荷将细小的粉尘、细菌和病毒吸住。
It has ultra-fine fibers with static electricity. In addition to blocking large dust particles, it can also absorb fine dust, bacteria and viruses by electrostatic charges on the surface.
医用口罩一般采用多层结构，简称为SMS结构：内外侧为单层纺粘层（S），中间为单层或多层的熔喷层（M），熔喷布就是熔喷层的最佳材料。
Medical mask is usually multi-layer structure, short for SMS structure: the inner and outer layers of a single layer (S), in the middle of a single or multi-layer layer (M), the molten coating is the best material for the spray layer.
熔喷布是无纺布的一种。
Molten cloth is a kind of nonwoven cloth.
无纺布又名为不织布，是由定向的或随机的纤维构成，没有经纬线，因外观和某些性能与纺织布类似而得名。
Nonwoven fabrics, also known as nonwoven fabrics, are composed of directional or random fibers, with no warp and woof, and are named for their appearance and some properties similar to textile fabrics.
无纺布有很多加工工艺，诸如纺粘法、熔喷法、热轧法、水刺法等。
Non-woven fabrics have many processing techniques, such as spinning, melt spraying, hot rolling, water spines and so on.
其中，熔喷法制成的无纺布，即被称为熔喷无纺布。
Among them, the melt-sprayed non-woven fabric, known as the melt-jet non-woven fabric.
熔喷法，指的是借助高速热气流使刚挤出的高聚物熔体迅速高倍拉伸固化成形的纺丝方法。
Melting is a spinning process in which the newly extruded polymer melt is rapidly solidified at high power by means of high-speed heat flow.
熔喷法生成的无纺布纤维更细，表面积更大，具有更好的过滤性、屏蔽性、绝热性和吸油性，这些是其他工艺生产的无纺布所不能比拟的。
The melt-jet process produces finer nonwoven fibers with a larger surface area and better filtration, shielding, insulation and oily properties than non-woven fabrics produced by other processes.
因此，熔喷布应用广泛，除了应用在医用和工业口罩生产以外，还可以应用在保暖材料、过滤材料、医疗卫生材料、吸油材料、擦拭布、电池隔板乃至隔音材料等诸多领域。
Therefore, besides being used in medical and industrial mask production, melt spraying can also be used in many fields such as heating materials, filter materials, medical and health materials, oil absorbing materials, wipe cloth, battery separators and even sound insulation materials.
国内生产能够生产熔喷布的大型厂家并不多，行业整体呈现出小而散的局面。
Domestic production is able to produce melts of large manufacturers are not many, the industry as a whole appears small and scattered situation.
该行业此前长期缺少关注，呈现不温不火的态势。
The industry previously lacked attention for a long time, showing a tepid situation.
公开资料显示，目前国内熔喷布产量较高的企业包括山东俊富无纺布有限公司（下称山东俊富）、天津泰达洁净材料有限公司（下称天津泰达）、欣龙控股（集团）股份有限公司等。
The open information shows that the domestic enterprises with high production include Shandong Junfu Nonwoven Co. Ltd. (Shandong Junfu), Tianjin Teda Clean Materials Co. Ltd. and Xinlong Holdings (Holdings) Co. Ltd.
其中，山东俊富和天津泰达的熔喷布日产量超过10吨。
Among them, Shandong Junfu and Tianjin Teida's daily production of more than 10 tons.
此外，还有大量小型的无纺布生产商分布在山东、广东、江苏、浙江、天津等省市，每家日产量约保持在一吨左右。
In addition, there are a large number of small non-woven manufacturers in Shandong, Guangdong, Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Tianjin and other provinces, the daily output of about one ton.
熔喷布生产的原理清晰，实际生产过程却较为复杂，涉及高分子学、流体力学、气流学、纺丝学等多门学科，对设备制造的要求也较高，其中的关键是获得熔喷布成套生产设备。
The principle of melt-jet production is clear, but the actual production process is more complicated, involving many disciplines such as macromolecular, hydrodynamics, airflow, spinning and so on.
浙江一家熔喷布生产设备供应商也对界面新闻记者表示，春节后，行业关注的重点从口罩机转移到熔喷布，现在已聚焦在熔喷布生产设备上。
A supplier of fusible jet production equipment in Zhejiang also told reporters on the interface that after the Spring Festival, the focus of the industry shifted from the mask machine to the spray cloth and is now focused on the melt-jet production equipment.
国内提供熔喷布成套生产设备和关键零部件的厂家并不多。
There are not many manufacturers in China that provide melt-jet production equipment and key parts.
主要包括中国恒天集团下属的宏大研究院有限公司、中国纺织机械（集团）有限公司旗下的邵阳纺织机械有限责任公司（下称邵阳纺织机械）、温州朝隆纺织机械有限公司等。
Mainly including China Hengtian Group of the Grand Research Institute Limited, China Textile Machinery (Group) Limited Shaoyang Textile Machinery Co. Ltd (Shaoyang Textile Machinery Co. Ltd.), Wenzhou Chaolong Textile Machinery Co. Ltd.
国际上涉及熔喷布成套生产设备的厂家主要有：日本卡森（Kasen）、德国恩卡（Enka Tecnica）、日本喷丝板（Nippon Nozzle）和欧瑞康纽玛格（Oerlikon Neumag）等企业。
The main international manufacturers of melt-jet production plants are Kasen in Japan, Enka Tecnica in Germany, Nippon Nozzle and Oerlikon Neumag.
目前，国内已实现熔喷布生产设备的国产化，但喷丝板、喷丝模头等核心零部件的生产，仍与国外厂商有较大差距，多依赖国外厂商供货。
At present, the domestic production equipment has realized the melt-jet production equipment, but the spinneret, the first-class core parts production, and foreign manufacturers still have a large gap, more rely on foreign manufacturers supply.
江苏一家熔喷布生产企业的负责人对界面新闻记者表示，和口罩机的低成本、易操作不同，熔喷布生产设备的价格普遍动辄超过百万元，且也需要对工作人员进行专门培训，产业门槛较高。
Unlike the low-cost, easy-to-operate masks, which typically cost more than $1 million to make, smelting machines typically cost more than $1 million and require specialized training for staff, the head of a smelter plant told reporters on the interface.
“部分国外厂商的供货周期长达八个月，国内厂商也超过半年，且关键零部件依赖进口，等真正引进了熔喷布的生产线，说不定疫情带来的需求高峰早已过去。
"Some foreign manufacturers have had supply cycles of up to eight months, domestic manufacturers have been importing key parts for more than six months, and so on.
”上述负责人表示。
"said the official.
这种担忧，阻碍了不少投资者进入此领域。
Such concerns have deterred many investors from entering the sector.
上述浙江一家熔喷布生产设备供应也对界面新闻记者表示，熔喷布市场规模本不算大，疫情一旦过去，熔喷布生产商的竞争压力将十分巨大，类似于非典时期，半数以上的入场者以亏本收场。
The melting pot market was not large enough, and once the outbreak was over, the pressure on manufacturers to compete would be enormous, with more than half of the participants closing at a loss, similar to the SARS epidemic.
“这个环节风险太大。
"The stakes are too high.
”该人士称，“就算使用全国产零部件，整体交货时间也要三个月以上。
"Even if you use national parts, the overall delivery time is more than three months," the person said.
全国产设备很难长期保持稳定的产品质量，而熔喷布的质量，也是医用口罩质量的关键。
National production equipment is difficult to maintain long-term stability of product quality, and the quality of spray cloth, is also the key to the quality of medical masks.
”邵阳纺织机械是国内重要的熔喷布生产设备供应厂家。
Shaoyang Textile Machinery is an important manufacturer of melt-jet production equipment in China.
该公司销售负责人对界面新闻记者表示，公司普通的熔喷布生产设备价格在500万元以上，交货周期在4-5个月左右，幅宽更大的熔喷布生产设备价格更高，交货周期长达7-8个月，加上1-2个月的安装调试时间，整体采购安装耗时接近10个月。
The company's common production equipment costs more than $5 million, delivery cycles range from four to five months, and larger and broader production facilities cost seven to eight months, plus one to two months of installation and commissioning, the company's sales director told Interface News.
“模头和风机等产品国内能够自产，但喷丝板这项关键器材需要从德国恩卡进口，这限制了我们的供货时间，”上述销售负责人表示，“除设备供应问题，熔喷布生产设备对工作人员的操作要求也更高，和口罩机生产线的要求完全不同。
"Products such as moulds and fans can be produced domestically, but the need to import this key equipment from Enka, Germany, has limited our delivery time," said the sales director. "In addition to equipment supply, smelter production equipment is also more demanding for staff than the mask machine production line.
”2月25日，中石化发布消息称，为解决口罩核心原材料紧缺的局面，其将投资约2亿元，在燕山石化和仪征化纤建设熔喷布和无纺布生产线。
On February 25, Sinopec said it would invest about 200 million yuan to build a production line of fusible jet and nonwoven fabrics in Yanshan Petrochemical and Feature Chemical Fiber to address the shortage of raw materials for the mask core.
其中，燕山石化力争在3月8日部分投产。
Among them, Yanshan Petrochemical Co. Ltd. aims to put into production on March 8.
END点击图片查看相关内容未经授权 禁止转载。
END Click on the picture to view the relevant content unauthorized reprint.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
口罩“心脏”熔喷布这么缺，为什么厂商不借机上产线、扩产能？。
Mask "heart" molten cloth is so lacking, why does the manufacturer not borrow machine production line, expand production capacity?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "口罩“心脏”熔喷布这么缺，为什么厂商不借机上产线、扩产能？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Mask & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Why not
var msg_desc = "熔喷布设备供应周期更长，跨界生产的难度、要求和风险也更大。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Smelting equipment has a longer supply cycle and is more difficult, demanding and risky to produce across borders.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '“我有口罩机却没有熔喷布”，口罩“心脏”价格从2万涨到8万',。
"I have a mask machine but no fuse," and the price of its "heart" has risen from 20,000 to 80,000 & amp; apos;.
subject_name: '界面新闻',。
Subject _ name: & apos; interface news & amp; apos;;,
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
