李文亮遗孀付雪洁：看新闻才知道他离开了我/* declared */。
Mrs. Li Wenliang's widow Fu Xuejie: It was on the news that he left me / * decled * /.
李文亮遗孀付雪洁：看新闻才知道他离开了我<br>。
Liang's widow Fu Xuejie: It was the news that told me he had left my service; br & gt;
| title       = 李文亮遗孀付雪洁：看新闻才知道他离开了我。
LiWenLiang's widow Fu Xuejie: It was on the news that he left me.
李文亮遗孀付雪洁：看新闻才知道他离开了我。
LiWenLiang widow Fu Xuejie: read the news just know he left me.
赵孟。
Zhao Meng.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国记者：赵孟“ 付雪洁说，自己会坚强起来，平平安安将腹中的孩子生下来；另外，她也期待调查组对丈夫李文亮被训诫的调查处理结果。
Photo: China Visual Correspondent: Zhao Meng said she would be strong enough to give birth to her baby safely and that she also expected the investigation team to investigate the reprimand of her husband, Li Wenliang.
”2020年2月7日凌晨，向同事分享新冠病毒疫情信息而被训诫的武汉医生李文亮，因罹患新冠肺炎去世，年仅35岁。
Wuhan doctor Li Wenliang, 35, who was reprimanded for sharing information about the outbreak among colleagues, died of pneumonia on February 7, 2020.
当日，中央纪委国家监委网发布消息，经中央批准，国家监察委员会决定派出调查组赴湖北省武汉市，就群众反映的涉及李文亮医生的有关问题作全面调查。
On the same day, with the approval of the Central Committee, the State Supervision Committee decided to send an investigation team to Wuhan City, Hubei Province, to make a comprehensive investigation into the questions raised by the masses concerning Dr. Li Wenliang.
人民日报曾刊发评论称，“国家监察委派出调查组作全面调查，回应了公众关切，也让人对还原事实真相抱有期待。
"The appointment by the state monitoring team to conduct a comprehensive investigation responded to public concerns and raised expectations that the truth would be restored," the People's Daily had commented.
还原真相，就能稳定人心；呵护正义，就能凝心聚力；捍卫法治尊严，更能凝聚起团结一心的强大力量。
Restore the truth, can stabilize people's hearts; care for justice, can cohesion; safeguard the dignity of the rule of law, more cohesive strength.
”李文亮的去世引发网友广泛关注。
Li's death drew widespread concern among netizens.
此前，他在发布病情的微博里表示，“等我病好了我就会上一线。
"When I get better, I'll be on the frontline," he said earlier in a microblog posting.
”2020年2月27日，李文亮去世20天后，界面新闻记者联系上李文亮的遗孀付雪洁，她回忆了李文亮去世前后的经历，她说因为极度悲痛，孕期她的身体出血，一度住进了医院。
On February 27, 2020, 20 days after Li's death, the interface reporter contacted Li Wenliang's widow Fu Xuejie, recalling her experiences before and after his death when she said she had been hospitalized with blood from her body during pregnancy due to severe grief.
她表示，自己会坚强起来，平平安安将腹中的孩子生下来；另外，她也期待调查组对李文亮被训诫的调查处理结果。
She said she would be strong enough to give birth to her baby safely and that she looked forward to the outcome of the investigation into Li's reprimand.
【以下是对话全文】界面新闻：你现在人在何处，身体状况还好吗？付雪洁：我在老家枣阳，身体状况一般，老公去世后心情一直不好，孕期还见红了（出血），去医院住了一段时间。
Fu Jie: I am in Zaoyang, my hometown, I am in a normal state of health, my husband has been in a bad mood after his death, and I saw red during pregnancy and went to the hospital for a while.
界面新闻：此前传言说你也感染了，没事吧？付雪洁：我只是发热，老公走了以后，心情不太好，第二天就发热，但不是新冠肺炎。
Interface News: Rumor has it that you are infected, okay? Fu Xuejie: I just have a fever, my husband left, the mood is not good, the next day fever, but not the new crown pneumonia.
界面新闻：家里其他人呢？付雪洁：我弟弟当时做CT的时候，肺部有点问题，当时没有做核酸检测，我老公走的那天下午，这边政府的人员就接他去隔离，又做核酸检测，后来检测结果转阴，就没事了。
My brother had a lung problem while he was doing a CT scan, he didn't have a nucleic acid test, and on the afternoon my husband left, the administration picked him up and did nucleic acid tests.
界面新闻：李文亮医生去世前，你们联系过吗？付雪洁：他住院那几天，我们每天都会视频，我说，他听。
Before Dr. Lee died, did you contact him? Fu Xuejie: He was in the hospital for a few days, and we had videos every day, I said, he listened.
他走了那天早上五点多（李文亮于2月7日凌晨去世，此处时间应为李文亮去世前一天，即2月6日早上五点多），给我发信息说“没事”，后来就不行了，联系不上。
He left that morning at more than five o'clock (Li Wenliang died in the early hours of February 7, the day before Li Wenliang's death, more than five o'clock in the morning of February 6).
界面新闻：你是怎么知道他去世的消息的呢？付雪洁：我也是看新闻才知道的，那天不停跟他同事打电话，让去看看他，说还在抢救，也不知道具体情况，后来他们医院就发通告了。
How did you know about his death? Fu Xuejie: I also read the news, that day, he kept calling his colleagues, let him see him, said rescue, do not know the details, then their hospital issued a notice.
界面新闻：你和李文亮是怎么认识的？你们夫妻感情很好吧？付雪洁：我们是在医院实习认识的，他对我很好，什么事都向着我，他同事有事找他，他都说“我要跟我老婆商量一下”（付雪洁哽咽）。
How did you and Li Wenliang get to know each other? Fu Xuejie: We got to know each other at the hospital. He was very kind to me and everything was going for me.
界面新闻：后来你去过武汉吗？后事怎么处理的？付雪洁：没有去，我们这里也封路了，我婆婆也过不去，骨灰还在殡仪馆。
Interface News: Did you go to Wuhan later? How did you deal with it? Fu Xuejie: No, we also closed the road here, my mother-in-law can not pass, the ashes are still in the funeral parlour.
界面新闻：现在两个孩子多大了？付雪洁：大的孩子在读幼儿园中班，快五岁了，小的在肚子里才五个月，预产期在六月份。
How old are the two kids? Fu Xuejie: The older kids are in kindergarten, almost five years old, the younger ones are only five months old, and the due date is June.
界面新闻：接下来有什么打算吗？付雪洁：现在就想把孩子平平安安生下来，我们也在等中央调查组的处理结论，等结论出来再说吧。
What's next? Fu Xuejie: Now we want the baby to be born safe and sound, and we're waiting for the conclusion of the Central Investigation Team to come out.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
李文亮遗孀付雪洁：看新闻才知道他离开了我。
LiWenLiang widow Fu Xuejie: read the news just know he left me.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
