被套牢的茅台黄牛：我有飞天茅台，你有口罩吗？。
Capped Maotai: I have a flying Maotai. Do you have a mask?
吴容。
Wu Rong.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：图虫创意记者：吴容编辑：牙韩翔“ 春节原本是茅台酒的销售旺季，突如其来的疫情让白酒市场颇为“受伤”。
2007-9-25 21: 48 Chinese New Year was the peak season for the sale of Maotai. The sudden outbreak of the disease has hurt the liquor market.
眼看着飞天茅台降温，最慌的恐怕是年前入手囤积茅台的黄牛们。
Watching Maotai cool down, perhaps the most panic is to start hoarding Maotai cattle years ago.
”“有N95口罩吗？我拿飞天茅台换。
"Do you have N95 masks? I'll trade them for Maotai.
”在白酒爱好者聚集的“酱香白酒”百度贴吧，几个网友一来一回计算着怎么交换才合理，由于物流不畅，这项交易最终没有达成。
Baidu, a popular destination for liquor lovers, posted a list of baidu, a few netizens calculating how to exchange it once a time, but the deal failed because of poor logistics.
春节原本是茅台酒的销售旺季，突如其来的疫情让白酒市场颇为“受伤”。
Spring Festival is originally Maotai wine sales season, the sudden outbreak of the liquor market is quite "injured."
茅台酒价格回落已是不争的事实，53度飞天的市场流通价从春节前的2500多元/瓶，跌至2月初的2200-2400元/瓶，来到2月中旬还曾跌破过2000元/瓶。
It is an indisputable fact that the 53-degree market price dropped from 2,500 yuan per bottle before the Spring Festival to 2,200 yuan per bottle in early February and 2,000 yuan per bottle in mid-February.
眼看着飞天茅台降温，最慌的恐怕是年前入手囤积茅台的黄牛们。
Watching Maotai cool down, perhaps the most panic is to start hoarding Maotai cattle years ago.
在一些倒卖茅台的交流群，也上演了类似用茅台换口罩的场景。
In some of the maotai exchange groups, also staged similar to Maotai mask exchange scene.
图片来源：百度贴吧李子峰是一名江苏镇江的茅台黄牛。
Picture: Baidu paste bar plum peak is a Jiangsu Zhenjiang Maotai cattle.
最近一个月，每天起床后除了关注疫情进展，他便一直盯着手机屏幕观察茅台酒的价格变动。
In the past month, apart from keeping an eye on the progress of the epidemic, he has been staring at the screen to see how the price of Maotai is changing.
由于春节前过于自信的“押宝”行为，他现在遭遇现金流告急。
He is suffering from a cash flow squeeze as a result of his overconfident "bet" behavior before the Spring Festival.
“简单来说，就是之前赚的钱都变成货了，但现在货无法变现。
"In short, all the money that was made before has been turned into goods, but now the goods can't be realized.
”去年春节，秉持着快进快出兑换成钱才是硬道理的做法，李子峰小赚了一笔。
During the Spring Festival last year, it was the hard way to cash in and out of China, and Li Zifeng made a small profit.
今年他试图效仿，开了几张信用卡囤了300件（箱）飞天茅台，不料疫情来袭近300万元被套牢。
This year, he tried to follow suit, opened several credit cards hoarding 300 pieces of (box) flying Maotai, unexpectedly the outbreak hit nearly three million yuan was tied up.
大年三十之后，李子峰的货源就再未有过外销记录，眼下即便想低价甩货，也很不容易。
After New Year's Eve, Li Zifeng's source of goods has no record of export, even at this time to reduce prices, it is not easy.
比起单瓶的茅台酒，整箱的包装会获得更多的“溢价”。
The packaging of the whole case is more "premium" than that of a single bottle of Maotai.
图片来源：百度贴吧李子峰打出“整件价格美丽”的小广告，在几个交流群问了一圈，迟迟未等到“拆迁户”露脸。
Picture: Baidu paste plum peak hit "the whole price beautiful" small ads, in several exchange groups asked a circle, waiting for the "demolition" face.
在交流群里，“财大气粗”的下游买家往往被称为“拆迁户”，“他们不收，有什么办法呢？大家都在观望。
In exchange groups, downstream buyers of "big bucks" are often referred to as "house demolitions". "What can they do about it? Everyone is watching."
即使有人收，也很少的（散瓶）而已。
There are very few (loose bottles) even when they are collected.
”李子峰说。
"said Li Zifeng.
像李子峰这样操作的，被认为是新手黄牛的“玩法”。
Such operations as plum peaks, is considered to be a novice cattle "play."
王俊豪在江苏无锡从事白酒经销生意，偶尔也倒卖茅台酒。
Wang Junhao engaged in liquor distribution in Wuxi, Jiangsu Province, and occasionally sold Maotai liquor.
他对界面新闻表示，按照“行规”，茅台黄牛党一般被划分成了“大牛”和“小牛”，他们玩法不同，受到疫情冲击也有明显差异。
He told Interface News that Maotai's scalpers were generally divided into "Maidan" and "Maoxiao" according to the "rules of the trade." They played differently and suffered from the epidemic.
“小牛”也被称为散牛，通常来说是新手。
Mavericks, also known as Bulldozers, are usually novices.
按照王俊豪的说法，飞天茅台市场指导价1499元/瓶，自筹资金加贷款砸下1000万入场也并不算多。
According to Wang Junhao, the Feitian Maotai market guidance price of 1499 yuan / bottle, self-financing plus loans under 10 million admission is not much.
为此，散牛们习惯快进快出。
For this reason, cattle are used to fast-moving out.
不过风险极高，一旦遇到断崖式的跌价很可能就淘汰出局。
However, the risk is very high, once the cliff-like fall in prices are likely to be eliminated.
在贵州景区和机场排队等待“撸”茅台的黄牛们。
Line up at Guizhou scenic spots and airports to "roll up" the cattle in Maotai.
图片来源：腾讯而所谓的“大牛”，往往从事白酒业务相关，包括白酒经销商、白酒商行的老板等。
Source: Tencent and so-called "Daniel," often engaged in liquor business-related, including liquor dealers, liquor business owners, and so on.
“近年来茅台热度和价格上升，一些地级市的酒行老板转型专做茅台黄牛，一般投入在3000万-5000万元。
In recent years Maotai has seen a rise in heat and prices. Some local winery owners have turned to Maotai yellow cattle, typically investing 30 million to 50 million yuan.
近20人的团队分工明确，有人集资，有人负责扫货，还有的负责出货。
Nearly 20 people have a clear division of labour, with people raising money, cleaning and shipping.
”王俊豪说。
"said Wang.
懂得控制好自有资金的比例，也摸得准市场行情，大黄牛们通常抵御风险能力较好。
Know how to control the proportion of their own funds, also feel quasi-market prices, cattle usually resist the risk of better.
根据王俊豪的观察，如果手头有两千万现金，大黄牛一般会拿出50%入场，再加上银行借款。
According to Wang, if he had 20 million dollars in cash on hand, the scalpers would typically contribute 50% of the way in, plus bank loans.
剩余的一千万现金用来防范风险。
The remaining $10 million is used to protect against risk.
“炒茅台和炒股票本质上没有什么不同。
"There's nothing fundamentally different between fried Maotai and stocks.
一旦遇到像疫情等不可抗力因素出现爆仓，手头上还留有现金用来还银行贷款和支付员工工资。
In the event of a force majeure situation, such as the outbreak of the crisis, cash on hand to repay bank loans and pay staff salaries.
”王俊豪说。
"said Wang.
去年中秋国庆期间，在茅台的直营化策略下，商超、电商等渠道投放加大，茅台酒价格就曾出现过一波震荡，黄牛们纷纷选择抛货。
During the Mid-Autumn National Day last year, under Maotai's direct marketing strategy, the Shang Chao, electricity and other channels increased, Maotai wine prices have had a wave of shocks, cattle have chosen to sell.
为了持续严格控价和打击市场囤货，今年年初茅台不断加大直营力度，陆续和几十家区域商超卖场进行签约。
In order to maintain strict price control and combat market hoarding, Maotai continued to increase direct camp strength early this year, and dozens of regional commercial super-stores signed.
去年9月，茅台在上海costco进行了投放，随即引发哄抢，其中不乏黄牛的身影。
Last September, Maotai launched a raid in Shanghai's Costco, which sparked looting, including some of the cattle.
图片来源：视觉中国年前商超渠道的大规模放量，在一定程度上抑制了炒酒的需求。
Source: Vision China before the large-scale volume of commercial ultra-channels, to a certain extent suppress the demand for fried wine.
部分嗅到了一丝不安的大黄牛，已选择在过年前高位出货，开年休生养息并观望，年后再寻找合适的时间点和价格切入。
Some smell a bit uneasy big yellow cow, had chosen in the New Year before the high delivery, start the year rest and wait and see, and then look for a suitable point in time and price cut.
“所以，他们现在手中并没太多的存货。
"So they don't have much in stock right now.
但这样的（大黄牛）毕竟极少数，大部分的炒客仍在焦灼之中。
But such (big yellow cow) is very rare after all, most of the speculation is still burning.
”王俊豪说。
"said Wang.
随着茅台集团在2月13日正式复工复产，2020年的茅台产销工作也拉开帷幕。
With Maotai Group in February 13 officially resume production, the 2020 Maotai production and marketing work also opened.
疫情之下，茅台集团董事长李保芳表示，茅台2020年“计划不变，任务不减，指标不调，员工收入不降”。
Under the epidemic, Maotai Group Chairman Li Baofang said 2020 Maotai "unchanged plans, no reduction in tasks, indicators do not adjust, staff income unhealthy."
此外，茅台今年也将会延续加大直营力度、严格控价这一做法。
In addition, Maotai this year will continue to increase direct marketing efforts, strict price control this practice.
即便没有疫情带来的危机，对黄牛们来说也显然不是什么好消息。
Even if there were no crisis from the outbreak, it would certainly not be good news for the cattle.
界面新闻留意到，从2月23日开始，贵阳、遵义的部分茅台直营店陆续开门营业；商超卖场方面，从2月26日起，包括辽宁大商、物美旗下新百和多点等也开启茅台预售活动；在线上渠道，苏宁易购最新一期的预约时间为27-29日，抢购时间为3月1日。
Since February 23, some Maotai direct shops in Guiyang and Zunyi have been open for business since Feb. 23. From February 26 onwards, Maotai Pre-sale Campaign has also been launched by Liaoning Province, including Liaoning Province, Wumei's new hundred and multi-points, etc.
2月初，一些扛不住压力的茅台黄牛已开始另谋出路。
In early February, some stressed-out Maotai cattle began to look for other ways out.
李子峰微信朋友圈观察到，这些黄牛大多转向了和疫情相关的业务。
Plum Zifeng Weixin circle of friends observed that most of these cattle have turned to the epidemic-related business.
“我看他们，有的开卖口罩、消毒液和洗手液；有的拿到生鲜电商的折扣券，和卖菜差不多；还有的熟悉酒圈资源，很容易拿到医用酒精；还有的人撸高度数的小酒来卖。
"I think some of them are selling masks, disinfectants and hand sanitizers. Some of them get discount coupons from live-TV merchants, just like they sell vegetables.
”李子峰说。
"said Li Zifeng.
目前他仍在观望，如果疫情还将持续一段时间，他也打算“转行”，“现在苦也得憋着，交学费了，世上哪有稳赚不赔的生意。
He is still waiting to see if the epidemic continues for some time, and he intends to "change his profession," "Suffocate now, pay school fees, there is no stable business in the world.
”（应受访者要求，“李子峰”“王俊豪”为化名）未经授权 禁止转载。
At the request of the respondents, "Li Zifeng" and "Wang Junhao" were not allowed to reproduce without authorization.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
被套牢的茅台黄牛：我有飞天茅台，你有口罩吗？。
Capped Maotai: I have a flying Maotai. Do you have a mask?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "被套牢的茅台黄牛：我有飞天茅台，你有口罩吗？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; I have a flying Maotai.
var msg_desc = "春节原本是茅台酒的销售旺季，突如其来的疫情让白酒市场颇为“受伤”。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Spring Festival was once at the peak of Maotai's sales season, and the liquor market was hurt by the sudden outbreak.
眼看着飞天茅台降温，最慌的恐怕是年前入手囤积茅台的黄牛们。
Watching Maotai cool down, perhaps the most panic is to start hoarding Maotai cattle years ago.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
