伊朗副总统确诊感染新冠病毒。
Iran's vice president confirmed the new crown virus.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：阿纳多卢通讯社“ 鲁哈尼强调，国家对疫情高度警惕，但不会封闭任何地区或城市，只会根据情况采取限制性措施。
Source: Anadolu News Agency "Rouhani stressed that the country is highly alert to the epidemic, but will not seal off any area or city, but will only take restrictive measures depending on the situation.
”随着伊朗国内新冠肺炎确诊人数持续上升，该国政坛高层也受到病毒“入侵”。
As the number of people diagnosed with pneumonia in Iran continues to rise, the country's top politicians have been hit by the virus.
2月27日，伊朗伊斯兰共和国通讯社(IRNA)报道称，负责妇女和家庭事务的副总统埃卜特卡尔(Masoumeh Ebtekar)的新型冠状病毒检测呈阳性；当天早些时候，伊斯兰议会国家安全与外交政策委员会主席祖努尔（Mojtaba Zonnour）发布视频称，他的新冠病毒检测结果呈阳性，正在隔离治疗中。
On 27 February, the Iranian Islamic Republic News Agency (IRNA) reported that Masoumeh Ebtekar, Vice-President in charge of women's and family affairs, had tested positive for the new coronavirus; earlier in the day, Mojtaba Zonnour, Chairman of the National Security and Foreign Policy Committee of the Majlis, released a video stating that he had tested positive for the new crown virus and was undergoing isolation treatment.
祖努尔还在视频中呼吁伊朗民众保持冷静，疫情一定会被击败。
Zunoor also called on the Iranian people in the video to remain calm, the epidemic is sure to be defeated.
祖努尔也是代表库姆市的议员，这座什叶派圣城恰好是伊朗疫情的中心。
Zunur is also a member of parliament representing the city of Qom, a Shiite holy city that happens to be at the heart of the Iranian epidemic.
在他之前，伊朗卫生部副部长哈利其（Iraj Harirchi）以及代表德黑兰大区的国会议员萨德奇（Mahmoud Sadeqi）均已确诊感染新冠病毒。
Before him, Iran's Deputy Health Minister, Iraj Harrirchi, and Congressman Mahmoud Sadeqi, who represents Tehran, had all been diagnosed with the new crown virus.
首都德黑兰第13区区长也被确诊，状况好转后已经出院。
The district mayor of the 13th district of Tehran was also diagnosed and discharged after his condition improved.
截至目前，伊朗累计确诊245例新冠肺炎病例，其中26人死亡，覆盖全国20个省份，大部分在库姆。
So far, a cumulative total of 245 cases of new crown pneumonia have been diagnosed in Iran, 26 of them fatal, covering 20 provinces across the country, mostly in Qom.
伊朗确诊患者的死亡率也依然是全球最高，约为10.6%。
The mortality rate among confirmed patients in Iran also remains the highest globally, at about 10.6 per cent.
但据伊朗卫生部长贾汉普尔（Kianoush Jahanpour）通报，当日新增的106例确诊病例中，有38例来自德黑兰，超过有七例新增病例的库姆。
But Iran's Health Minister Kianoush Jahanpour reported that 38 of the 106 new cases confirmed that day came from Tehran, more than Kum, which had seven new cases.
据英国广播公司（BBC）报道，尽管伊朗当局要求民众暂时不要前往库姆，但库姆的宗教神殿依然开放，其中著名的法蒂玛圣陵每年都会吸引来自世界各地上百万朝圣者。
The shrine remains open in Qom, where the famed shrine of Fatima attracts millions of pilgrims from around the world each year, despite a request from Iranian authorities not to travel to Qom for the time being, BBC reported.
伊朗最高领袖哈梅内伊27日对卫生部长纳马基（Saeed Namaki）及全体医务人员表示赞扬和感谢，称他们为国家做出的努力是“无价的”，必将受真主保佑。
Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei on the 27th to Health Minister Saeed Namaki and all the medical staff, saying their efforts for the country is "priceless" and will be blessed by God.
伊朗领导人多次将疫情视作做敌对势力打击伊朗政权的阴谋。
Iranian leaders have repeatedly viewed the outbreak as a plot by hostile forces against the Iranian regime.
总统鲁哈尼26日再次表示，外国宣传机构利用伊方取消公共活动等防疫措施，试图通过操纵舆论引起恐慌，建议民众不要理会谣言。
President Rouhani said on the 26th, foreign propaganda agencies used the Iraqi side cancelled public activities and other preventive measures, trying to create panic by manipulating public opinion, advised the public to ignore rumors.
鲁哈尼还把矛头指向美国，称其多次试图阻碍伊朗国内的生产和经济活动，以伤害伊朗百姓。
Rouhani also blames the United States for its repeated attempts to disrupt domestic production and economic activity to hurt ordinary Iranians.
此前哈梅内伊也曾将议会选举低投票归咎于敌对势力的舆论影响。
Khamenei had previously attributed the low vote in the parliamentary elections to public opinion influenced by hostile forces.
据法新社报道，伊朗警方已经以在网络上传播谣言的罪名逮捕24人，还有118人被约谈。
Iranian police have arrested 24 people and interviewed 118 others for spreading rumours on the Internet, AFP reported.
鲁哈尼还表示，他收到的工作报告显示，伊朗持续从世界卫生组织（WHO）进口新冠病毒测试盒，同时伊朗国内专家也已经掌握测试盒的生产技术，国产产品已经进入测试阶段，很快将大规模投产。
Rouhani also said he had received working reports indicating that Iran continued to import new crown virus test kits from the World Health Organization and that Iranian experts had mastered the technology to produce test kits, and that domestic products had entered the testing phase and would soon begin mass production.
贾汉普尔说，该国预计新建立15所新冠病毒检测实验室，下周内实验室总数将达22所。
Jahanpur says it expects to build 15 new crown virus testing laboratories, bringing the total to 22 within the next week.
鲁哈尼强调，国家对疫情高度警惕，但不会封闭任何地区或城市，只会根据情况采取限制性措施。
Rouhani stressed that the country is highly vigilant about the outbreak, but will not close any area or city, but will only take restrictive measures depending on the circumstances.
据伊朗英语新闻电视台报道，该国国防部也加入口罩和消毒液的生产，并在下属机构建立起了生产线。
Iran's Ministry of Defence is also involved in the production of masks and disinfectants and has set up production lines in its subsidiaries, English-language news television reported.
国防部长哈塔米（Amir Hatami）此前下命令称，国防部每日需生产口罩20000只，消毒液20000升。
Defense Secretary Amir Hatami had ordered the ministry to produce 20,000 masks and 20,000 litres of disinfectant a day.
BBC报道称，因供应紧张，伊朗国内的防疫用品价格已经上涨了10倍，许多药房门口都出现了排长队购买或售罄的情况。
According to the BBC, prices for immunization supplies have increased tenfold in Iran due to tight supplies, and many pharmacies have long queues to buy or sell out.
伊朗的疫情也辐射到多个周边国家。
The Iranian epidemic is also spilling over into neighbouring countries.
科威特27日激增17例确诊病例，共计43例，全部与首例曾前往伊朗的旅客有关。
Kuwait on the 27th sharp increase in 17 confirmed cases, a total of 43 cases, all related to the first ever passenger to Iran.
伊拉克、巴林、阿曼、阿富汗、黎巴嫩、阿联酋、巴基斯坦，甚至加拿大都出现了与伊朗有关的确诊病例。
Confirmed cases related to Iran have been reported in Iraq, Bahrain, Oman, Afghanistan, Lebanon, the United Arab Emirates, Pakistan and even Canada.
WHO将于本周末派专家队伍前往伊朗，对该国疫情形势进行评估，并提供援助。
The World Health Organization will send a team of experts to Iran later this week to assess the situation and provide assistance.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
伊朗副总统确诊感染新冠病毒。
Iran's vice president confirmed the new crown virus.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "伊朗副总统确诊感染新冠病毒";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Iran's Vice President diagnosed with New Crown Virus & quot;;;
var msg_desc = "鲁哈尼强调，国家对疫情高度警惕，但不会封闭任何地区或城市，只会根据情况采取限制性措施。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Rouhani stresses that the state is highly vigilant about the outbreak, but will not close any area or city, only to take restrictive measures as the situation warrants.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
