“灾难面前没人能幸免，救别人也是救自己”。
"No one is immune to disasters, save others is to save themselves."
马婕盈。
Vergere Ying.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
马婕盈/华中科技大学新闻与信息传播学院“听到这首歌的时候真的蛮激动的，这次重录更多的是为家乡加油，包括我们自己。
Vergere, at the School of Journalism and Information Dissemination at HUST, was really excited to hear the song. This time the re-recording was more of a cheer for home, including ourselves.
”杨雪涛是芊子（化名）的高中同学，也是《手牵手》歌曲的演唱者之一。
"Yang Xuetao is a high school student of Qian Zi (alias) and one of the singers of" Hand in Hand "songs.
2月2日晚上十点，《手牵手》的完整版推文发布，杨雪涛听着熟悉的声音红了眼眶。
February 2 at 10 p.m., "Hand in hand" the full version of the tweets released, Yang Xuetao listening to the familiar voice red eyes.
上一次录歌的感动更多源于同学情，17年后再唱《手牵手》多了份坚持和期盼。
The last video moved more from the situation of students, 17 years later singing "hand in hand" more adhere to and look forward to.
2003年，杨雪涛大学刚毕业；2020年杨雪涛的孩子刚会走路。
In 2003, Yang Xuetao University graduated; in 2020, Yang Xuetao's children were just walking.
非典没有在他的生活中留下过多的痕迹，新型冠状病毒却深深地烙在了心里。
SARS did not leave too many marks in his life, but the new coronavirus is deeply branded in his heart.
“上次离得远，这次可是我们的家也在其中啊。
"The last time we were far away, this time our home was among them.
”杨雪涛是土生土长的武汉人，妻子灿扬（化名）是协和医院心内科的医生，录歌那几天夫妻二人也因为生病在家隔离了。
"Yang Xuetao, a native of Wuhan, wife Chan-yang (not her real name) is a doctor in the department of cardiology at Concorde Hospital.
杨雪涛是个顶乐观的人，他说，吃点药总会好的，他的宽心也让妻子心安。
Yang Xuetao is a very optimistic person, he said, take some medicine will always be good, his comfort also let his wife be at ease.
腊月二十九，1月23日，武汉发布“封城令”的这天，妻子灿扬虽然只是咽痛，肺部没有出现病灶，但淋巴细胞过低，专家就让她回家隔离了。
On January 23, Wuhan issued the "closure" day, his wife Chan-yang although only pharynx pain, no lung lesions, but lymphocytes are too low, experts let her home isolation.
隔离在家的十几天，杨雪涛在录歌筹钱，灿扬在问诊寻物，隔离病毒但不隔离行动。
Isolated at home for a few days, Yang Xuetao in the video to raise money, Chan-yang in the search for things, isolation of the virus but not isolated action.
灿扬没法上一线，就在家里支援一线的同事，网上问诊、看论文筛选药物，与同事一起并肩作战。
Chan-yang can not on the first line, on-line support colleagues, online consultation, paper screening drugs, and with colleagues to fight side by side.
她还联系校友会的捐赠，与医院牵线搭桥，为同事提供物资保障。
She also contacted the alumni association for donations to build bridges with the hospital and provide material support for her colleagues.
参与筹集物资的校友身处世界各地，美国、欧洲、加拿大，甚至还有阿联酋……五花八门的医疗物资有美国标准、欧洲标准、韩国标准……这些物资就像是一个“联合国”。
Alumni involved in raising supplies are located around the world, in the United States, Europe, Canada, and even the United Arab Emirates... A wide variety of medical supplies range from American to European standards to South Korean standards... they look like a "United Nations."
“等孩子长大了，我们要让孩子知道，在这场疫情上，我们家是竭尽全力了。
"When the kids get older, we need to let them know that our family is doing their best with this epidemic.
”夫妻二人都认为，自己尽力做着能做的事。
Both husband and wife believed they were doing what they could.
“封城”那天，回家隔离了腊月二十五（1月19日）七点半，灿扬在手术室附近碰到了做完手术的师弟，师弟在做一个心脏介入手术，急诊的手术不敢掉以轻心，灿扬就上去和这位师弟聊了聊病人的情况。
At 7: 30 on January 19th, Chan-yang met with his brother-in-law who had undergone surgery near the operating room. His brother-in-law was undergoing a heart intervention, and the emergency operation was not easy. Chan-yang went to chat with the brother about the patient.
十点左右，在办公室，灿扬接到了手术室打来的电话，病人发烧了，师弟也发烧了。
Around 10 o'clock, in the office, Zhanyang received a call from the operating room, the patient has a fever, the younger brother has a fever.
医院警惕性强，生怕病毒传染科室，要求发烧就要立马上报。
Hospital vigilance, fear of virus infection department, a fever immediately reported.
灿扬还好，只是有点咽痛，不到一天，师弟的体温也降下来了。
Chan-yang is good, just a little bit sore throat, less than a day, the temperature of the younger brother has also come down.
工作照旧，上午的小插曲没有打乱忙碌的生活。
Working as usual, the morning interlude did not disrupt the busy life.
当时不在意，可一旦起个头，心里就忍不住地去想。
At that time did not care, but once started, the heart could not help but think.
过了两三天，灿扬的咽痛没有缓解的迹象，杨雪涛也出现了咳嗽的症状。
Two or three days later, Zhanyang's sore throat did not ease the signs, Yang Xuetao also appeared cough symptoms.
灿扬心里很乱，腊月二十九赶紧去医院查血，做肺部CT。
Zhanyang heart is very messy, Lai month 29 hastened to the hospital blood, do lung CT.
肺部没有出现病灶，但淋巴细胞过低，她将检查结果交给院内负责新型冠状病毒的专家，专家看了看说：“赶快回家隔离吧。
The pulmonary lesions were not present, but the lymphocytes were too low. She presented the results to the specialist in charge of the new coronavirus in the hospital.
”她赶紧打电话给杨雪涛，“我好像中招了，你赶快过来检查。
"She hurriedly called Yang Xuetao." I seem to have admitted it.
”语气低沉，心里说不出的难受。
The tone was low, and his heart was indescribable.
面对未知的病毒，人类有天生的恐惧，即使症状轻微，灿扬还是怕。
Faced with the unknown virus, humans have a natural fear, even if the symptoms are mild, Chan-Yang or fear.
12月底，灿扬就告诉了杨雪涛不明病毒（后来认定为新冠病毒）的事情，作为医生，敏感度还是有的。
At the end of December, Chan-Young told Yang about the unidentified virus (later identified as the New Crown Virus), and as a doctor, there was sensitivity.
她不再乘坐地铁上下班，尽管家和医院就在两个地铁站旁。
She no longer commutes to work on the subway, although her home and hospital are next to two subway stations.
回到家，她都先洗澡消毒再去抱孩子，她最怕把家人卷进去。
When she got home, she bathed and disinfected her children before holding them. She was afraid to involve her family in them.
“不一定就是啊。
"" Not necessarily.
”电话那头，杨雪涛笑笑说，“是了就吃药呗。
"At the other end of the line, Yang Xuetao smiled and said," Yes, just take the medicine.
”他的淡定给了灿扬不少安慰。
His calmness gave Chan-yang much consolation.
杨雪涛的检查结果和灿扬的差不多，不过肺部没有病灶，就没有做核酸检测。
Yang Xuetao's results were similar to those of Chan-Yang, but without lung lesions, no nucleic acid tests were performed.
夫妻俩回到家就把孩子送走了，准备隔离。
When the couple got home, they sent the baby away, ready for isolation.
腊月二十九，协和医院像往常一样载满了病患，医护们来来往往穿梭在各个楼层。
On the 29th of December, Concorde Hospital was full of patients as usual, and doctors and nurses shuttled from floor to floor.
大医院每天都是这么多人，不因过年而减少，也看不出恐慌，唯一不同的就是每个人的脸上多了一层口罩。
There are so many people in the big hospital every day. It's not because of the New Year, and there's no fear. The only difference is that everyone has a mask on their faces.
在家的日子并不好过，刚刚封城，夫妻俩的情况又不乐观，物资怎么办？家里的老人孩子怎么办？同事和病人怎么办？“父母那一辈人都没有经历过这样的事情，真的担心。
Life at home is not easy, just closed, the couple is not optimistic about the situation, material how to do? What about the old people and children at home? Co-workers and patients? "parents generation has not experienced such things, really worried.
”灿扬说。
'said Zhanyang.
在家的前两天夫妻俩不敢看手机，满屏的新闻都是坏消息，亲戚朋友的担忧增添了不少惶恐。
The first two days at home the couple did not dare to look at the phone, screen full of news are bad news, relatives and friends worried add a lot of fear.
喝水、吃药、喝牛奶、喝鸡汤、睡觉……快点好起来。
Drink water, take medicine, drink milk, drink chicken soup, sleep... get well soon.
灿扬就在武汉协和的网络平台上问诊，一天也能看十来个病人。
Zhanyang on the Wuhan Concorde on the network platform for consultation, a day can also see a dozen patients.
受访者供图“云支援”除夕夜，家里冷清。
Respondents were given a picture of "Cloud Support" on New Year's Eve.
孩子送走了，剩下一对隔离的夫妻和一对老人。
The child was sent away, leaving a separated couple and an old man.
按照原来的计划，这个年是热热闹闹的，孩子刚会说话走路，年初一是杨雪涛的生日，家里人会好好聚一聚，现在一切都变了。
According to the original plan, this year is noisy, children can just talk and walk, the first day of the New Year is Yang Xuetao's birthday, the family will get together well, now everything has changed.
在家闲不住，闲了心里就难受。
It is hard to be idle at home.
灿扬在同事群里忙工作，杨雪涛在同学群里出主意。
Zhanyang in the group of colleagues busy work, Yang Xuetao in the group of students out of ideas.
不能上班，灿扬就在武汉协和的网络平台上问诊，一天也能看十来个病人。
Cannot go to work, Zhanyang in Wuhan Concorde on the network platform for consultation, a day can also see a dozen patients.
微信群里，灿扬和心内科的同事们一起看文献，筛选药物，大家都在出力。
Weixin group, Chan-yang and colleagues in the Department of Cardiology together to review the literature, screening drugs, we are all contributing.
同事们把SARS以来关于冠状病毒的文章翻了个遍，在其中找药物，找治疗方法，虽无法做临床试验，但也希望能够在前人研究的基础上找出有用的内容。
Colleagues have looked over the articles on coronavirus since SARS and looked for drugs to treat the coronavirus. Although they were unable to conduct clinical trials, they hoped to be able to find some useful information based on previous studies.
灿扬的一个同事和自己的小孩都感染了新冠肺炎，她和小孩住在一起，同事在吃阿比多尔治疗，但是阿比多尔国内的标准是给12岁以上的人服用，因为在查文献的过程中发现俄罗斯批准了两岁以上儿童可以使用阿比多尔，同事没有别的办法，就给孩子也吃了阿比多尔，情况在慢慢好转，两人都没有住院。
One of Zhanyang's colleagues and her own children were infected with pneumonia, she lived with the children and colleagues were being treated for abidol, but the domestic standard in Abidor was found to be for children over the age of two, and colleagues had no choice but to feed Abidor to their children, who were slowly improving and neither was hospitalized.
“灾难面前谁都不能幸免，谁都有可能成为下一个病人，救别人也是在救自己。
"No one is immune to disaster. Anyone can be the next patient, and to save others is to save themselves.
”灿扬说。
'said Zhanyang.
在群里，同事们还筛选出了的磷酸氯喹和治疗艾滋的一些药物，认为可能有效。
In the group, colleagues also screened out chloroquine phosphate and some drugs to treat AIDS, which they thought might be effective.
封城之后，杨雪涛的同学群里也忙碌了起来，清华湖北校友群、高中班级群这些与武汉相关的群都沸腾了。
After the closure of the city, Yang Xuetao's students have also been busy, Tsinghua Hubei alumni group, high school class group, and Wuhan-related groups are boiling.
1月23日，一位同学提议再次录歌，“疫情严重，我们也为家乡做点事情吧。
On January 23, a classmate suggested recording another song. "The epidemic is serious. Let's do something for our hometown, too.
”同学说，他还把2003年版的《手牵手》发到了群里。
"Classmates said he had sent the 2003 edition of Hand in Hand to the group.
这首歌本来是为非典而唱，大学毕业后，高中同学聚在一起回顾同学情，也为中国加油。
This song was originally sung for SARS. After college, high school students got together to review the situation of their classmates and cheer for China.
17年后，这首歌将为自己而唱，“我当时立马回复全力支持。
Seventeen years from now, the song will be sung for itself, "I got back to full support.
”杨雪涛说。
"said Yang.
录歌那几天，杨雪涛就窝在书房里，一遍遍地听，一遍遍地唱，每一句词都会录上十几遍。
The days of recording, Yang Xuetao nest in the study, over and over again, singing over and over again, every word will be recorded a dozen times.
云录制难度很大，合唱、独唱都是一个人，不会有眼神交流，也不会有情感传递，杨雪涛什么都不想，闭上眼睛把歌唱好。
Cloud recording is very difficult, chorus, solo are all one person, there will be no eye contact, there will be no emotional transmission, Yang Xuetao want nothing, close their eyes and sing well.
“温习的时候脑子里就想到了17年前我们一起录歌的画面。
"When I was brushing up, I had a mental image of us recording together 17 years ago.
”那时候，十几个人围个圈，中间一个话筒递来递去，现在一个人对着耳机唱，音色也变了不少，“这次因为疫情，我唱的时候真的蛮感动的。
"At that time, a dozen people surrounded a circle, the middle of a microphone to pass by, now a person singing to headphones, the tone has changed a lot," this time because of the outbreak, I really moved when I sing.
”最后这首歌发出的时候，录歌成员共有20人，另外还加入了小朋友的声音作为“彩蛋”。
At the time of the final song, there were 20 recorded members and the children's voices were added as "colored eggs."
杨雪涛说，当时有同学提议把各自小孩的声音加进来，马上得到了大家的积极响应。
Yang said that some students proposed to add the voices of their children, immediately received a positive response from everyone.
他们大概是3-10岁，共11位小朋友。
They are about 3-10 years old, 11 children in all.
毕竟这次录歌和17年前不同，不光是为武汉自己的家乡加油，小朋友是未来，通过他们稚嫩的声音，希望得到更多人的共鸣。
After all, this video is different from 17 years ago, not only for Wuhan his hometown refueling, children are the future, through their immature voice, hope to get more resonance.
“我当时听到小朋友们的声音，很惊喜也很感动。
"I heard the voices of the children and was very surprised and moved.
”杨雪涛说。
"said Yang.
灿扬的桌面上，手机、ipad、电脑齐齐地摆着，电话、微信不断，这头牵挂着同事，那头牵挂着病人。
On the desktop, mobile phones, iPads, computers are all lined up, phone calls, micro-letters, this one worried about co-workers, the other worried about the sick.
杨雪涛的手机里，信息也不断涌来，这边在筹款，那边在捐物，云端的支援推着武汉向前走。
Yang Xuetao's mobile phone, information is constantly coming, this side in fund-raising, there in the donation, cloud-like support pushed Wuhan forward.
物资来了！疫情爆发紧接着就是物资的短缺，这一点灿扬早早地体会到了。
The material came! The outbreak of the epidemic immediately followed by a shortage of supplies, this point Chan-yang early realized.
年前上班的时候，医院给每个医护人员发一次性口罩，一天只有一个，签到领取，想多拿都不行。
When I went to work a few years ago, the hospital gave each medical worker a disposable mask, only one a day.
封城之后校友们聚集起来筹集物资，杨雪涛的一个高中同学在美国，他一天开车跑了几百公里把沿途超市里的口罩、护目镜买了个遍。
After the closure of the city, alumni gathered to raise supplies, Yang Xuetao, a high school student in the United States, drove hundreds of kilometers a day to buy masks and goggles from supermarkets along the way.
清华校友会有个同学在阿联酋工作，他发现阿布扎比有物资，就赶忙联系杨雪涛：“想不想做点事？”“可以呀！”杨雪涛答。
A classmate of the Tsinghua Alumni Association, who works in the United Arab Emirates, found supplies in Abu Dhabi and hastened to contact Yang Xuetao: "Would you like to do something?"
这位同学联系了二十多个校友建了“阿布扎比众筹群”，灿扬刚好在医院工作，可以审核标准联系医院，就把她也拉了进来。
The student contacted more than 20 alumni to set up the "Abu Dhabi Group of Crowds," Chan Yang just worked in the hospital, can audit the standard contact hospital, and pulled her in.
拉好群之后，同学很激动，立马把物资的参数发到群里让灿扬审核。
After pulling a good group, students are very excited, immediately sent the material parameters to the group let Chan-yang audit.
那时候，阿布扎比的医疗物资价格没有涨起来，而在美国、欧洲、加拿大的同学一时没有买到。
By then, Abu Dhabi's prices for medical supplies had not risen, and students in the United States, Europe and Canada had not bought them for a while.
阿布扎比像个“新大陆”，承载着希望。
Abu Dhabi, like a "new continent," carries hope.
短时间之内，群里成员筹集了近十万元。
In a short time, the members of the group raised nearly 100,000 yuan.
找物资、筹款、过海关，各个都是难题，“真是个群策群力的事情，我们在里面做的事情不多，这一单耗费了大量的校友资源，真的挺不容易的。
Finding supplies, raising money, going through customs are all difficult tasks. "It's really a group thing, we don't do much in it, and this one consumes a lot of alumni resources, which is not easy.
”杨雪涛说。
"said Yang.
年后的几天，联系灿扬的人越来越多。
A few days later, more and more people connected with Zhanyang.
在医疗系统工作了十几年，基本上每家医院都有认识的人，灿扬就做起了沟通桥梁，这边的物资运到哪个医院合适，那边的医院还缺些什么，每天都在联系。
In the health-care system for more than 10 years, basically every hospital has known people, Chan-yang began to bridge the bridge, this side of the material to the hospital where appropriate, there is something missing in the hospital, daily contact.
可是联系的越多，就越是担心。
But the more you get in touch, the more you worry.
灿扬在武汉三医院有个同学，她打电话过去问那里的口罩够不够，同学苦笑说：“我反正一个口罩用两天。
Zhanyang in Wuhan three hospitals a classmate, she called over there to ask if the mask is enough, classmates wry smile said: "I used a mask for two days anyway.
”同学说，医院只有外科口罩，她的N95口罩还是年前自己在网上买的。
Classmates said the hospital only had surgical masks, and her N95 mask had been bought online.
白天戴了一天，晚上把口罩放在紫外线灯下烤一烤，第二天再接着用。
Wear one day during the day, bake the mask under ultraviolet light at night, and use it again the next day.
“我当时特别心酸，我在家待着，吃喝不愁，我没有真的去体验这些事情。
"I was so sad, I stayed at home, ate and drank, and I didn't really experience it.
”连接的另一头是五花八门的物资。
At the other end of the line is a vast array of goods.
清华校友捐赠了很多物资，但是来源多样，标准各异。
Tsinghua alumni have donated a lot of materials, but from a variety of sources and standards.
有美国标准、欧洲标准、韩国标准……还有一些是积压了很多年的防护服，与现行标准不一样，就要对比每一项参数，跟国标不一致的捐给政府、社区等基层工作人员，合乎规范的就捐给医院。
There are American standards, European standards, Korean standards... There are also many years of overstocking of protective clothing, unlike the current standard, each parameter has to be compared with the national standard, with the government, the community and other grass-roots staff, the standard donation to hospitals.
半个月来，灿扬审核了大量的物资，以至于已经记不清第一批物资是从哪里过来的。
For half a month, Mr. Chan reviewed so much material that it was hard to remember where the first supplies came from.
在家的作息和上班的作息是一致的，八点就进入了工作状态，“可能刚刚给这个病人开完处方，电脑上就要去查询物资的批号，再打个电话问同学医院这些东西还有没有。
At home, work and rest are consistent, eight points into the working state, "the patient may have just finished writing a prescription, the computer will go to inquire about the batch number of goods, and then call the classmate hospital to ask if these things are still available.
”午觉起来，手机里就会有上千条未读消息。
When you take a nap, there are thousands of unread messages on your cell phone.
杨雪涛也心疼妻子，不过比起在一线工作，在家里杨雪涛会心安些，“协和医院有有不少工作人员感染，另外还有疑似的，我们这是后方。
Yang Xuetao also loved his wife, but compared to the front-line work, Yang Xuetao will feel more at home, "Concorde Hospital has a lot of staff infected, there are also suspected, we are the rear.
”爱心人士收到各地发来的捐赠物资接收证明 受访者供图那些“看不见”的地方刚开始，物资的捐助主要集中在武汉的大医院，渐渐地校友们开始关注其他地方的县市。
"Loving people received testimonials from places where donations were received from places where people could not see. Initially, donations of materials were concentrated in major hospitals in Wuhan, and gradually alumni began to focus on counties and cities elsewhere.
一些校友在基层挂职，就在群里呼吁大家关注那些之前“看不见”的地方，黄冈、恩施、麻城、十堰……一个个名单列下去，拼成了湖北省的地市图。
Some alumni hang their posts at the grass-roots level, calling attention to the previously "invisible" places, Huanggang, Enshi, Massachusetts, Shiyan... one by one list down, the map of the city of Hubei Province.
灿扬也提议了一个地方——来凤。
Zhanyang also proposed a place - Leifeng.
来凤是恩施州的一个小县城，位置偏僻，交通不便。
Leifeng is a small county town in Enshi state, which is remote and inconvenient for traffic.
年前灿扬的一个病人做手术，两场手术之间有两周的间隔，灿扬建议病人回家休息一段时间再过来，病人拒绝了，说：“你不知道我出来一趟有多难，我们要从住的地方坐驴子，坐到镇上，再从镇上做小巴车到县里头，再从县里头坐小巴车到恩施州里面去，再从恩施州里头坐火车到协和来。
There was a two-week interval between the two operations. Chan-yang suggested that the patient go home for a rest. The patient refused. "You don't know how hard it is for me to come out," he said.
”灿扬记下了这个地方，刚好来凤医院的急诊科主任是她的朋友，灿扬电话联系了朋友，“不行啊，我这里恨不得手套都是重复用的。
Zhanyang noted down the place, just come to the hospital emergency department director is her friend, Chan-yang phone contact friends, "No, I would like to gloves here are reused.
”朋友说。
"said the friend.
灿扬赶紧把这里的情况发到了校友群里，“会哭的孩子有奶吃，这种不会发声的，甚至在地图上都很难找到的地方，他们医护人员也非常不容易。
Zhanyang hurriedly sent the situation here to the alumni group, "crying children have milk, this can not speak, even on the map are difficult to find, their medical staff is not easy.
”疫情之下，哪个地方的医护都是用血肉之躯顶着病毒。
In an epidemic, health care anywhere is covered with the virus.
校友的捐赠送达各个地方。
Alumni donations were delivered to various places.
麻城市人民医院，两千只口罩，一千件防护服；红安县太平桥镇政府，两千个口罩；黄冈团风县，五十套防护服，五百个口罩……来凤还没有出现在确定名单上。
People's Hospital of Massachusetts, 2, 000 masks, 1, 000 protective clothing; Taiping Bridge Town Government, Hongan County, 2, 000 masks; Huanggang Mission County, 50 suits, 500 masks.
筹不到物资，灿扬只好跟朋友说这里没有了，朋友也很感激，没想到会第一时间想到这个小县城。
Can not raise supplies, Chan Yang had to say here no friends, friends are grateful, did not expect the first time to think of this small county.
“说实话那边的人还是蛮淳朴的啊，我是蛮过意不去。
"To tell you the truth, the people over there are very simple, I'm sorry.
”灿扬还在等，等来凤二字出现在下一批的捐赠名单上，等捐赠名单慢慢缩短清零。
"Chan-yang is still waiting, such as the next batch of Leifeng appeared on the list of donations, waiting for the list of donations to gradually shorten zero.
“我没有想到物资会这么缺。
"I didn't think the supplies would be so short.
”灿扬说。
'said Zhanyang.
疫情发展还不明朗，尽管已有国家的大量物资划拨，医院还是要省着用。
The spread of the epidemic is not clear, although the country has a large allocation of supplies, hospitals have to save money.
封城一个月，武汉的医护人员增多了，病床增多了，急诊科的同事还是两班倒，穿上防护服后，12个小时不吃不喝不上厕所，东西省着用，多救人。
Wuhan closed the city for a month, more medical personnel, more beds, emergency department staff or double shifts, wearing protective clothing, 12 hours do not eat not to drink toilet, East and West to save people.
“这都是我的同事，都是在一线工作的人，我都深深地理解这是多么不容易，所以每一点东西都是非常非常珍贵的。
"It's all my colleagues, all working on the front lines, and I understand how difficult it is, so everything is very, very precious.
”民间的力量有限，但也提供了不少帮助。
Civil society is limited in strength, but it also provides a lot of help.
半个月，成都来的烘干机、山西来的苹果，还有护目镜上的防雾喷剂陆续送至各个医院。
Half a month later, the dryers from Chengdu, apples from Shanxi and fogging sprays from goggles were delivered to hospitals.
还有很多批联络的物资，灿扬已经忘了来自哪里，捐到了哪里。
There are also lots of contact materials, Zhanyang has forgotten where to come from and where to donate.
1月25日，杨雪涛夫妻俩到医院复查，淋巴细胞水平有所上升，前几天吃的药见了疗效，灿扬觉得夫妻俩的病不会变得很重，慢慢会好起来的。
January 25, Yang Xuetao husband and wife to the hospital review, lymphocyte level has increased, the last few days of the medicine to see the efficacy, Chan-yang do not think the couple will become very serious illness, will gradually get better.
2月2日，杨雪涛囤了几十斤的蔬菜，大白菜、胡萝卜、大蒜……成箱地堆在阳台上，他在朋友圈里写道：“论持久战”。
February 2, Yang Xuetao hoarded dozens of vegetables, cabbage, carrots, garlic... piled on the balcony, he wrote in his friends' circle: "On the protracted war."
隔离期间，医院腾出大量的病房提供给新冠肺炎患者，灿扬的科室也受到了影响，排班不多，科室的同事轮流顶了灿扬的班。
During the isolation period, the hospital set aside a large number of wards for patients with pneumonia, Chan-yang departments have also been affected, scheduling is not much, section colleagues took turns Zhanyang classes.
现在夫妻两人痊愈了，2月底，灿扬准备回到工作岗位，让同事休息一下。
Now the couple has recovered, at the end of February, Zhanyang ready to return to work, let colleagues rest.
“疫情赶紧结束吧，让武汉人回归正常的生活。
"The epidemic is over now, let Wuhan people back to normal life.
”这是夫妻俩共同的希望。
"It was the hope of both of them.
(指导老师：华中科技大学新闻与信息传播学院教师 周婷婷；澎湃新闻记者 张小莲 崔烜)本期编辑 邢潭推荐阅读。
) Teacher: Zhou Tingting, a faculty member of the School of Journalism and Information Dissemination, Central China University of Science and Technology.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“灾难面前没人能幸免，救别人也是救自己”。
"No one is immune to disasters, save others is to save themselves."
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "“灾难面前没人能幸免，救别人也是救自己”";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "“疫情赶紧结束吧，让武汉人回归正常的生活。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "Let the epidemic stop now and let Wuhan return to normal life.
”";。
";;
title: '湖北解封3小时1735人进入长沙？官方深夜辟谣',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; late at night.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '武汉彭银华医生牺牲，本打算正月初八办婚礼',。
At the expense of Dr. Peng Yinhua, Wuhan, who intended to have been married at & apos; 8 in January.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '582分钟，交卷！',。
Running: & apos; 582 minutes, handing in its paper!
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
