病患、区长、书记：张兵的方舱17天 | 武汉人⑦。
Patient, district chief, secretary: Zhang Bing's cabin at 17 days and # 124; Wuhan.
江婧怡。
Jing Yi Jing.
城市OurCity                      。
City of OurCity.
城市OurCity。
City of OurCity.
关心每一位普通中国人的生活革命。
To care about the life revolution of every ordinary Chinese.
。
.
这不同于我们寻常的生活体制，这是一个客观上紧张严肃、主观上轻松活泼的“现实扭曲场”。
This is different from our normal life system, which is an objectively tense and serious, subjective and lively "reality distortion field."
在方舱里，治疗之外，医生、护士和病人有重新组织起生活的可能性。
In the cabin, outside the treatment, doctors, nurses and patients have the possibility to reorganize their lives.
人们尚且拥有充足的空间和精力，将原有的社会身份和行为习惯投射到新环境中，自觉或不自觉产生的角色期许逐步形成了患者间的角色分工。
People also have enough space and energy to project old social identities and behaviors into new environments, and roles that arise consciously or unconsciously gradually shape the division of roles among patients.
作者｜江婧怡设计 | 范晓雯张兵，男，48岁，交通警察，中共党员，也是一名武昌方舱医院首批轻症新冠肺炎患者。
The way the author Jie Yi designs # 124; Fan Xiaowen Zhang Bing, male, 48, traffic police, a Communist Party member, and one of the first patients with mild crowns pneumonia at Wuchang Fangcao Hospital.
当我寻找与方舱有关的采访对象时，作为其中一个病区的“区长”，以及东区的临时党支部书记，张兵被推举出来作为方舱患者面向媒体的发言代表。
When I looked for someone to talk to in relation to the cabin, Zhang Bing, the "mayor" of one of the affected areas and the secretary of the temporary Party branch in Eastern District, was chosen to represent patients in the cabin to the media.
2月11日那段在网上广泛流传的方舱医院患者高唱《歌唱祖国》的视频里，举着喇叭放背景音乐的人就是他。
In the Feb. 11 video of cabin fever sufferers singing "Motherland," a widely circulated online video, he was the one playing background music with a trumpet.
除此之外，我在新闻联播、新华社、朝闻天下、焦点访谈、武汉广播电视台、人物等多家媒体的报道中，也都看到了他。
In addition, I have seen him in the news broadcast, Xinhua News Agency, news of the world, focal point interviews, Wuhan Radio and Television, personages and many other media reports.
张兵所在的武昌方舱医院是武汉市最早收治患者的三家方舱之一，一些被看作传递防疫正能量的场景，比如患者和医生护士在舱内合唱、跳广场舞，最初也都发生在这里。
The Wuchang Fangkang Hospital, where Zhang Bing is located, was one of the first three cabins in Wuhan city to receive patients, and some scenes regarded as conveying positive epidemic prevention energy, such as the singing of patients and doctors and nurses in the cabin, dance square dance, also happened here at the beginning.
这座方舱医院由洪山体育馆改造而来，与湖北省人民政府直线距离不超过一千米，是首批方舱中床位最少的一座，共有800张床位。
The Fangshan Hospital, which was converted from the Hongshan Stadium to within one kilometer of the direct distance from the People's Government of Hubei Province, is the least bedded of the first batch, with 800 beds.
目前，这里配备的医务人员已经从300位增加到500余位，按照方舱最初50个床位一单元、每单元配备4医12护的标准，算是方舱之中医疗资源非常宽裕的了。
At present, the number of medical staff has increased from 300 to more than 500, and the first 50-bed unit in the cockpit is equipped with 4 paramedics per unit, which is very generous in terms of medical resources in the cabin.
这里的病人大多是轻症患者，在医学意义上并没有那么接近死亡，对于医生和护士来说，在方舱工作的风险相较于前线也要小得多。
Most of the patients here are mildly ill, not so close to death in the medical sense, and the risks of working in the cabin for doctors and nurses are much smaller than on the front lines.
医护人员与患者，以及病人之间的关系，在这种孤立又轻松的环境中变得更加贴近。
The relationship between health-care workers and patients, as well as patients, has become closer in this isolated and relaxed environment.
这不同于我们寻常的生活体制，这是一个客观上紧张严肃、主观上轻松活泼的“现实扭曲场”。
This is different from our normal life system, which is an objectively tense and serious, subjective and lively "reality distortion field."
在方舱里，治疗之外，医生、护士和病人有重新组织起生活的可能性。
In the cabin, outside the treatment, doctors, nurses and patients have the possibility to reorganize their lives.
人们尚且拥有充足的空间和精力，将原有的社会身份和行为习惯投射到新环境中，自觉或不自觉产生的角色期许逐步形成了患者间的角色分工。
People also have enough space and energy to project old social identities and behaviors into new environments, and roles that arise consciously or unconsciously gradually shape the division of roles among patients.
像张兵这样一位拥有党籍和公职的人员，在短时间内成为具有一定威信的意见领袖，他所在的病区还有十几位这样的“区长”。
Zhang Bing, a member of the Party and of the public service, became, in a short time, a respected opinion leader, along with a dozen others in his sick district.
在这些积极参与互助的患者中，有掌握一定常识的在读大学生，有曾经学过医且成功自愈的康复者，也有同张兵一样，由于自己的职业和身份，本身就易于积极参与进公共服务的人。
Among these active patients, there are those who have some common sense, some who have studied medicine and have successfully recovered themselves, and others who, like Zhang soldiers, by virtue of their profession and status, are themselves easy to actively participate in the public service.
在仓促构建起的陌生环境中，这些人成为协助方舱秩序和集体意识形成的不可忽视的协调力量。
In the unfamiliar environment of hasty construction, these people become the coordination force that can't be ignored to help the order of the cabin and the formation of collective consciousness.
在最开始时，人们对一度被比拟为“集中营”的方舱医院，有着诸多悲观的推测，但在随后的真实记录之中，包括病人带动医生护士一起每天跳舞唱歌的场面传递出另一种图景。
In the beginning, there was much pessimism about the cabin hospital, once likened to a "concentration camp," but subsequent records of reality, including patients leading doctors and nurses to dance and sing together every day, convey a different picture.
我在与一位方舱志愿者交谈的过程中，她甚至用到“大同社会”这样的词汇来比喻舱内的氛围。
During a conversation with a cabin volunteer, she even used words like "Pax Romana" to describe the atmosphere inside.
当人们基于这样的原因和压力集中到一个封闭环境之中，需要唤醒一些力量以团结、以安全的时候——虽然在外人看来不可理喻，“住得都不想走了”的情绪真实存在着；亲切的关系、亢奋的情绪、对奉献的鼓励、对生存的渴望，都在真实发生着；喜欢方舱、感恩方舱、保护方舱的集体精神也在真实运作着。
When, for this reason and under such pressure, people converge in a closed environment, it is necessary to awaken some forces to be united in order to be safe - although in the eyes of outsiders the feeling of "no living wants to go" is real; intimate relationships, hyperactive emotions, encouragement to give, longing for survival are all happening; and the collective spirit of the cabin, the gratitude capsule, and the protective cabins is really working.
这些“正能量”的故事，正发生在一个个特殊气氛的封闭场域中，我们就先从张兵开始讲起。
These "positive energy" stories are taking place in a special atmosphere of closed field, let's start with Zhang Bing.
▲图右为张兵（图由受访者提供）以下是《城市OurCity》（微信公众号ID：varicity）根据与张兵的采访记录整理的自述：OurCity病人我第一次听说这个病，大概是在元旦的时候，当时武汉市的媒体就有报道了。
The following is a self-report by Zhang Bing (pictured by respondents): "City City" (ID: varicosity) based on interviews with Zhang Bing: I first heard of the disease, probably on New Year's Day, when the Wuhan media reported it.
最开始一天只有几例，后来几十例，1月11日到1月16日这期间，连续五天没有新增了，我当时就觉得这能控制住。
There were only a few cases at the start of the day, then dozens, and for five days, from January 11 to January 16, I felt it was manageable.
从18号开始，那之后每天又开始出现新增病例（18日和19日新确诊病例136例），可能之前检测的手段也不够。
From 18 onwards, new cases began to appear every day (136 new cases were confirmed on the 18th and 19th days), and the means of detection may have been inadequate.
所以其实一直到23号封城，大家才逐步意识到事情的严重性。
So it was not until the 23 rd that we gradually realized the seriousness of the situation.
因为新冠肺炎相关的报道我都在看，所以当我27号出现不适的时候，就感觉可能是了。
Because I've been reading all the reports about the new crown pneumonia, so when I got sick on the 27th, I thought it might be.
当时只觉得是增添了烦恼，还不是很害怕，毕竟大数据告诉我，死亡率虽然有但是不高。
At that time only feel added annoyance, is not very afraid, after all, big data tell me, although the mortality rate is not high.
这件事除了告诉家人和单位领导，别人我都没有说。
I did not say anything about it except to my family and unit leaders.
但是在我开始发烧的第三天，我的岳父岳母出现了咳嗽、胸闷的症状，我就感觉到不能这样简简单单自我隔离了。
But on the third day of my fever, my father-in-law's mother-in-law developed cough and chest tightness, and I felt unable to isolate myself so simply.
我们中年人还扛得住，七八十岁的老人未必可以。
We can still carry middle-aged people, seventy or eighty years old may not be.
我就跟社区联系，开了出入证明，和岳父岳母三个人赶紧去医院诊断。
I contacted the community, issued a certificate of entry and exit, and his father-in-law mother-in-law rushed to the hospital diagnosis.
我们是2月2号做的第一次检测。
We did our first test on February 2nd.
各个医院的发热门诊确实人满为患，而且我先去的几个医院都不能做核酸检测。
It was true that the fever clinics in the hospitals were overcrowded, and the hospitals I went to first could not be tested for nucleic acids.
初期不是每个医院一去就能做确诊的，资源比较紧张，像我们这种比较年轻的、症状轻的，会被放到后面，危急的会优先做检测，很多人是排了三四天才排到。
Not every hospital can be diagnosed at the beginning, the resources are relatively tight, such as our younger, mild symptoms will be put behind, the critical will be prioritized for testing, many people are waiting for three or four days before the arrival.
我有些做医生的同学朋友，我就去咨询哪个医院的资源足够一些，后面就去了人民医院。
Some of my fellow doctors and friends, I went to consult which hospital had more resources, and then went to the People's Hospital.
虽然很多人，但基本是只要你达到这个发病条件都能做，来了就做。
Although many people, but basically as long as you reach this condition can do, come to do.
那天我们花了一天时间，才排队做完全部检查。
It took us a day to stand in line for the full examination.
不到24小时，医院就给我打电话，说我做出来是阴性，岳父岳母是阳性。
Within 24 hours, the hospital called me and said I was negative and my father-in-law was positive.
他们年纪大，只要得这个病就算重症，后来在社区的协调下住进了医院。
They were old enough to be seriously ill and were later admitted to hospital under the coordination of the community.
但我觉得我连续发烧，连带家人都有了症状，怀疑自己可能是假阴性，于是我在4号又做了一次，5号出结果，是阳性。
But I felt I had a fever, and my family had symptoms, and I suspected that I might be false-negative, so I did it again on the 4th.
下午确诊的，那天晚上社区就通知我去方舱了。
Confirmed in the afternoon, that night the community informed me to go to the cabin.
你会觉得我岳父岳母能排上床位、我能住进方舱是一种幸运吧，这幸运当中也有一些必然。
You'll think my father-in-law's mother-in-law is in bed, and I'm lucky to be able to live in the cockpit.
在我们都还没确诊的时候，我就在网上申报，上到中央的国务院的网站，下到湖北省的、武汉市的、区里面的、街道社区的，但凡官方发布的能够登记的求助信息的，基本上我都填了，电话都打了。
Before we were all diagnosed, I reported it online, went to the central State Council's Web site, and went down to the Hubei, Wuhan, district, and street communities, but basically I filled in all the official requests for help that could be registered.
5号要进舱那晚，正好我岳母被通知要去另外一个医院。
The night the 5th was due in, my mother-in-law was told to go to another hospital.
送她耽误了点时间，回来的时候已经凌晨1点，第一批收进方舱的人已经过去了，我是第二批，同时过去的我们街道的有三四个人，还有好几个街道的一起去。
It was one o'clock in the morning when she returned, and the first batch of persons had passed, I was the second, and there were three or four people in our street, and several streets together.
送我们去方舱用的是公交公司的车，一辆能坐四五十个人。
It was the bus company car that took us to the square, one of which could carry forty or fifty people.
到洪山体育馆的时候，差不多凌晨4点钟，再排队登记信息，真正进去的时候已经是早上6点了。
When I got to Hongshan Gymnasium, it was almost 4: 00 in the morning, and I queued up to check in.
进去洪山方舱之后，第一印象，那个床，很厚。
After entering Hongshan's cabin, the first impression was that the bed was very thick.
一摸，还给大家铺了电热毯。
Touched it and put an electric blanket on it.
我当时正好发烧，又通宵，那晚还下着小雨，武汉的冬天冷起来可是非常的冷啊。
I happened to have a fever and stayed up all night, and it rained that night. Wuhan was very cold in winter.
可以说那时候是饥寒交迫，所以第一眼见到，哇，好舒服好温暖，第一件事就是脱衣服上床睡觉，啥东西就往地上扔。
It was cold and hungry, so the first thing I saw was, wow, so comfortable and warm. The first thing I did was take off my clothes and go to bed.
吃到第一餐的时候已经是早上九点多，早饭已经冷了。
It was past nine o'clock in the morning and breakfast was cold.
方舱那边刚开始的时候很简陋，那个时候还没有微波炉，我发烧食欲也不好，但是这个病必须要吃，不吃没抵抗力。
The side of the cabin was very simple at the beginning, there was no microwave, I had a fever appetite is not good, but this disease must eat, do not eat resistance.
我就去找开水，和着开水把那个馒头咽下去了。
I went to find boiled water and boiled water to swallow the steamed bun.
检测之后，我其实私下做了收拾，因为想着迟早要住院接受治疗，就清了一下自己的洗漱用品、随身衣物、保温杯，通知我的时候我拿了就走。
After the test, I did it privately, thinking that sooner or later I would have to be hospitalized. I cleaned my toiletries, toiletries, and thermos cups, and when I was notified, I took them and left.
但当时准备还是很仓促，就只穿了一件外套，带了一双凉拖鞋，也没带衣架。
But then the preparations were still very hasty, only wearing a jacket, with a pair of cool slippers, also did not wear a hanger.
好在后来后勤保障跟上了，不然我只带了一卷卫生纸，也用不了两三周啊。
Luckily, the logistics kept up, otherwise I would have brought only a roll of toilet paper and it wouldn't take me two or three weeks.
从第三天开始医护就理顺了许多，送餐每天都很准时，两百多人的舱配备了四个微波炉，也开始注意送回民的清真餐和糖尿病患者的无糖餐。
By the third day, medical care had been rationalized, meals were delivered on time every day, and more than 200 people had been equipped with four microwave ovens, and attention was being paid to Muslim meals sent to Hui people and sugar-free meals for diabetics.
我们这边的伙食还不错咧，而且说实在话我平常在家吃不了这么多，但是为了治病我就拼命吃。
The food here is very good, and indeed I can't eat so much at home as usual, but I eat like mad to cure it.
▲张兵与医护人员合影（图由受访者提供）进舱以后第一时间，我就给家人打了电话，我爱人在我进舱那天也去了酒店隔离。
Zhang Bing and the medical staff (picture provided by the interviewee) immediately after entering the cabin, I called my family, my wife in the hotel quarantine on the day I entered the cabin.
现在我每天都会抽点时间和他们视频，至少一次，问一下个人状况、恢复情况、治疗情况。
Now I spend some time with them every day, at least once a day, asking about my personal status, recovery and treatment.
我女儿在国外留学，有时差，所以我们电话没有通那么多，她在有网的地方通过微信，一段时间就还是会视频一下。
My daughter studies abroad, sometimes difference, so we do not have so many phone calls, she has access to the Internet through micro-mail, a period of time will still video.
我还跟我们单位做了汇报。
I also reported back to our office.
单位蛮关心我，第一时间也到我家去慰问。
Unit quite concerned about me, the first time also came to my home to sympathize.
确诊之后他们觉得我最大的可能是在工作中被感染的，因为我是搞信访接待的，办公室相当于是对外窗口。
After the diagnosis, they felt that I was most likely infected at work, because I am a letter reception, the office is the equivalent of an external window.
本来我作为交通警察，过年也要正常上班的。
As a traffic policeman, I had to go to work regularly for the New Year.
现在我们群里每天发的除了管交通，还管社区，做上门送菜、收治病人的工作。
Now our group in addition to the daily traffic, but also in charge of the community, do door-to-door food delivery, receive patients work.
我之前上班上到23号，原安排休到28号开始值班，谁知道1月27号我开始发病，当时还很不好意思，还在想我领导信不信，万一说我在骗他，要怎么说呢。
Who knew that January 27th, when I began to get sick, was still very embarrassed to think that my leader believed it or not. What if I said I was lying to him?
早些年，我们单位就在洪山体育馆旁边。
A few years ago, our unit was next to Hongshan Stadium.
而且体育馆里边有个游泳馆，那个时候我送我女儿到这儿来学游泳。
And there was a swimming pool inside the gym, where I took my daughter to learn how to swim.
这边有演出的时候，我们也会到这边做保卫。
When there's a show here, we'll be here to defend ourselves.
很多年前的一个平安夜，外面飘着雪，体育馆里面有克莱斯曼钢琴会，加上那天商场做活动，我们在马路上忙到晚上两三点，印象很深刻。
One Christmas Eve many years ago, it was snowing outside and the Chrysler Piano Club was in the gym. Coupled with the activities of the mall that day, we were busy on the street until two or three in the evening.
所以我对这个体育馆很熟悉的，真的没想到有一天会在里面待这么久。
So I am very familiar with this stadium, I really did not expect to stay in it for so long.
方舱医院这个东西，我之前也没接触过。
I haven't been in contact with this thing before.
我当时想，既然是医院，肯定有医护人员，有治疗手段，既然确诊了，我就想找个医院治疗，而武汉市的医院此时已经人满为患。
I thought, since it was a hospital, there must be medical staff, there is treatment, now that the diagnosis, I would like to see a hospital, Wuhan hospital is already full.
网上说好像是属于那种部队临时建立的像战时医院一样的机构，所以能比较快建起来。
The online version seems to belong to the sort of army makeshift war-time hospital, so it can be built relatively quickly.
各个地方都来支援，但设施还是欠缺，一辆车上放一台机器，和一栋楼里放几十部机器还是有很大的不一样。
Support came from all quarters, but the facilities were still lacking, and there was a big difference between having a machine in one car and dozens of machines in a building.
严格来讲，方舱医院更像一个大的留观室。
Strictly speaking, the cabin hospital is more like a large observation room.
大家用一样的药、一样的检查、一样的治疗，如果出现比较危重的情况，就会转到相应的医院去。
They take the same medicine, the same examinations, the same treatment, and if a more serious situation arises, they are referred to the appropriate hospital.
我不能说方舱是建得晚了，任何事情不能用事后的眼光去看。
I cannot say that the cabin was built too late for anything to be seen with hindsight.
这个东西也是循序渐进的，一开始大家也没意识到要这样。
This thing is also gradual, at first people do not realize that this is the case.
包括火神山、雷神山，虽然抢建起来了，它也只能救危重病人。
Including the fire god mountain, thunder god mountain, although the rush to build, it can only save critically ill people.
随着基数增加，说实话政府花再大力气都不行，代价确实是非常大的。
As the base figure increases, the truth is that the cost to the government, no matter how hard it takes, is enormous.
我很能理解政府。
I understand the government very well.
而且只有共产党领导下的中国才能这么去做，倾举国之力，这在任何国家是做不到的，包括我们知道有的国家现在流感死了过万人，他不可能用到这种救治方法。
And only China under the Communist Party can do so, with a national strength that no country can do, including countries that we know now have ten thousand deaths from the flu, and he cannot use it.
OurCity区长，书记刚进舱的第一天，所有医生只要进来，就要回答好多问题，除了医疗的，还有生活的，查房的时间就变得很长很长。
On the first day of the first day of the clerk's cabin, all the doctors came in and answered a lot of questions. Except for the medical ones and the living ones, the check-in time became very long.
包括我们这里刚开始，医生是有好几波轮流来，每次来都要重新收集一遍信息，而且因为是传染区，所有医生只能往里面带东西，不能往外拿东西，又不允许医生带手机进来，我们只能通过加他们私人微信给他传患者个人信息。
Including us here at the beginning, the doctor came in several waves, each time collecting new information, and because it was a contagious area, all the doctors had to carry things inside, couldn't get things out, didn't allow the doctor to bring in the cell phone, and we had to pass personal information to him through personal messages.
但大家的问题太多了。
But there are too many questions.
那天湖北省肿瘤医院的汪医生跟我，还有我旁边的姓胡的年轻病友在聊天的时候，就说可以面对面建个病友群。
On that day, Dr. Wang of Hubei Oncology Hospital and I, along with a young patient named Hu next to me, talked about building a group of patients face-to-face.
我跟小病友同时拉的群，可能我的手机快一点吧，我就成了群主。
I and a small group of patients at the same time, perhaps my mobile phone faster, I became a group owner.
正好我身体状态好一点，另外我是党员，又是个警察，我平常受到为大家服务的教育，来做这样的事觉得也蛮正常，就把这个群建起来了。
Just as I was in better health, and I was a Party member and a policeman, I was normally educated to do such a thing as that, and built this group.
后来我知道这个舱里面有6个警察，都是党员，两个男的，四个女的。
I later learned that there were six policemen in the cabin, all party members, two men and four women.
刚开始你也知道，这就相当一场天灾，一场瘟疫。
As you know at first, it was a natural disaster, a plague.
它来的时候所有人都猝不及防，那些手段再怎么样，都赶不上它发展的速度。
It comes at a time when everyone is caught off guard, those means no matter how, can not catch up with its development speed.
确确实实不是说为谁开脱，但这件事情放到任何一个城市、任何一个地方，不见得比武汉做的更好。
It is not really to say who is excused, but this matter in any city, anywhere, no better than Wuhan.
如果放到国外，死亡率会大大提高。
If put abroad, the death rate would be greatly increased.
我们中国说句实在话，各方的力量非常强大，人民的素质非常高，在一线的工作人员全都是义务主动要求来的，到现在我没听到谁说是被动来的，这个确确实实体现到我们党的力量。
To be honest with you, the forces on all sides are very strong, the quality of the people is very high, and the staff on the front line are all volunteers.
我在这里虽然出不去，我也想给大家服务一下，也感染、发动群众。
Although I can not get out of here, I also want to serve you, but also infected, levying the masses.
我在方舱里面总共建了三个群。
I've built a total of three groups in the cabin.
第一个群就是这个大群，开始是病友医生，后来进来了社工共振这些志愿者，做心理辅导都在这个群里。
The first group was this large group, beginning with the patient's doctor, and later joined the social workers to resonate with the volunteers, all of whom were in the group for psychological support.
然后我们有一个党员的群，所有党员聚在一起讨论，给病人帮个忙，做一些工作。
Then we have a group of party members who get together to discuss, do a favor to the patients, do some work.
第三个群就是为我这个区的病友服务的小群，我是我们区的区长。
The third group is a small group of sick people in my district, and I am the mayor of our district.
方舱是分病区，ABCDE区这样子。
The cockpit is a sub-area. ABCDE is like this.
有所谓的分片区管理、病友互助，都是大家慢慢地在工作、生活、养病过程中自发形成的小组。
There are so-called zoning management, mutual assistance of sick friends, are people slowly in the work, life, health care process formed spontaneously.
我们两百多人，大概有十来个区长。
Two hundred of us, about a dozen boroughs.
我这边是24个人，现在出舱了有一半，然后又来了新的病友，还是24个人。
I've got 24 people on my side, half out now, and then there's a new patient, or 24.
我们叫区长，有的舱里面是叫网格员，有的叫小组长。
We call the district chief. Some of the cabins are called grid men, some are group leaders.
正好那天我们进舱之后，武昌区的区长在广播里面为大家打气加油，发表一番鼓励的讲话，大家可能就认可我们也算是区长，名号就叫开了。
Just after we entered the cabin that day, the mayor of Wuchang District cheered us up and gave us a cheering speech on the radio.
当区长的话，第一他愿意为大家服务。
As a district mayor, he is willing to serve everyone.
如果他天天躺在床上玩手机，大家也不可能推他当区长。
If he were to lie in bed playing with his cell phone every day, it would be impossible to push him to become district mayor.
而且这个区长他只有为大家服务的义务，没有任何的权利的。
And the district mayor had no right to do anything but serve everyone.
包括有人要我去管别人，我说我也只能采取劝说，你在里面没有行政手段管理他的。
Including someone asking me to take care of others, I said I can only take persuasion, you do not have the administrative means to govern him.
我在舱里属于比较积极活跃的人，一开始我跟另外一两个党员，每次都为大家收集整理垃圾，还帮忙解决饮水机的积水问题。
I was one of the more active people in the cabin. At first I worked with one or two other party members, each time collecting rubbish for everyone and helping to solve the water problem of the water dispenser.
大家就觉得，我在这里面起到了很好的带头作用，所以大家推举我做了这个区长。
Everyone felt that I had played a leading role here, so I was chosen to be mayor of the district.
积水的问题第一天就有了。
The problem of standing water started on the first day.
他们在安装的饮水机的时候没有安下水，毕竟三十三个小时就建成了，工人赶时间把这个饮水机给安上，然后把水和电接通了，但他没考虑到大家接水的时候总会有多的水。
After all, it was built in thirty-three hours. The worker had time to install the water machine and then connect the water and electricity, but he did not take into account that there would always be more water when the water was collected.
有的人会随手倒，包括有时候杯子不小心接满了漏出来，于是就会产生积水。
Some people will fall, including sometimes the cup inadvertently full of leaks, and will generate water.
一个是地面很脏，一个是舱里的老年人多，摔倒了不堪设想。
One is very dirty ground, one is the cabin full of old people, fell down unthinkable.
于是我就观察了一下，最开始我想找一个长的管道接出去，后来发现那个管道特别不好买。
So I looked at it for a moment, and at first I wanted to find a long pipe to connect it, but it turned out to be very difficult to buy.
所以我们就用废弃的消毒水的桶来装水，由我们几个志愿者不时倒掉桶里的水。
So we fill the water with disused disinfectant buckets, which are emptied from time to time by our volunteers.
水倒了以后地面还是很脏，我们就会拖一遍。
When the water falls, the ground is still dirty and we drag it over.
我们在舱里生活每天产生的垃圾属于被污染的，需要进行焚烧，但是这些垃圾主要是每天吃饭的饭盒。
The rubbish we generate every day in the cabin is contaminated and needs to be burned, but it is mainly food boxes for daily meals.
如果有饮用水，包括早上的牛奶、豆浆泼进去，它是没有办法完全燃烧的，会耽误清理垃圾的时间，后来我们倡导干湿分类，大概是进舱后的第三天、第四天。
If drinking water, including morning milk and soy milk, is poured in, there is no way for it to burn completely. It will delay the time needed to clean up the garbage.
我们几个党员有时候吃完饭，就会提前站在那个垃圾桶旁边提醒大家，先做好垃圾分类，然后再打包。
Some of our party members sometimes stand in front of the garbage can after dinner, reminding everyone to sort it out before packing it.
每个人的习惯一时半会很难去改，我就用小喇叭去跟每个病人讲。
Everyone's habits will be hard to change in the short term, I use the trumpet to talk to each patient.
方舱东区的垃圾每天都是我们清扫的。
We clean the east side of the cabin every day.
但你也知道我只穿了一件外套进来的舱里面，难免会有一些污渍，跟院方沟通以后，医生给了我们一百个一次性手套和四件白大褂，结果我穿了白大褂之后有很多病友包括志愿者以为我是医生来问我问题。
But you know that I only wore a coat inside the cabin, there will inevitably be some stains, and after communicating with the hospital, the doctor gave us a hundred disposable gloves and four white coats. As a result, after I wore my white coat, many of my sick friends, including volunteers, thought I was a doctor asking me questions.
我朋友圈还有人以为我不是病友，是去方舱做义工的。
Some people in my circle of friends thought I wasn't a sick friend. I went to the cabin to volunteer.
▲张兵穿着白大褂清理积水（图由受访者提供）现在我们东区的垃圾整整齐齐，清洁的来了只需要直接装车就行了。
Zhang Bing is wearing a white coat to clean up the water (provided by the interviewee). Now our East Side is in perfect order.
刚来的时候我们清理垃圾要花半个小时，现在大家非常自觉，大概花十来分钟清理就够了。
It took us half an hour to clean up the rubbish when we first arrived, and now we are very conscious that it will take about ten minutes to clean it up.
像发餐、登记病友的药品需求、分发生活物品，有时候帮院方对接一些物资进来，我现在每天一万四五千步，就是这样走出来的。
It's how I get out of here, like distributing meals, keeping track of sick people's needs for medicine, distributing living things, and sometimes getting supplies in for the hospital.
我平常上班最多也才七八千步，有时候稍微懒一点，像周末都没有四五千步。
I usually work only seven or eight thousand steps, sometimes a little lazy, like the weekend did not have four or five thousand steps.
这个小喇叭是从2月12号还是13号开始变成我的专属的，哈哈哈。
The trumpet has been mine since Feb. 12 or Feb. 13, hahaha.
我们2月11号在方舱成立了临时党支部，因为我在前面做了这些事情，大家就推举我当书记。
We set up a temporary Party branch in the cabin on February 11th, because I had done all these things before, and they elected me secretary.
我是个男生，声音比较低沉点，讲话大家有些听不清，所以就要了个喇叭。
I am a boy, a little low voice, speech a little hard to hear, so asked for a loudspeaker.
有时候他们医生进来需要跟大家说点事情的，召集大家去做检测的时候，有时候也会用一下。
Sometimes when their doctor comes in and needs to talk to everyone about something, when they are called in for a test, they sometimes use it.
大部分的时候都是我们去跟大家讲一些注意事项，或者一些需要登记的事情。
Most of the time we go to tell you a few things to pay attention to, or something to register.
我是快20年的党员了，2001年9月入的党。
I have been a member for nearly 20 years and joined the Party in September 2001.
刚开始我本来是没有成立临时党支部这个想法的，它有个酝酿的过程。
At first I did not set up a temporary party branch of the idea, it has a brewing process.
后来陆陆续续，我们发现很多愿意主动站出来为大家服务的都是党员。
Later, we found that many willing to come forward to serve you are party members.
舱里面几百人，医护人员从医疗角度考虑是强项，行政管理这头肯定会弱一点，那我们就成立这样一个组织。
There are hundreds of people in the cockpit, and medical considerations are a strength, administration will certainly be a little weaker, so we will set up such an organization.
我们这几个党员平时都带着党徽，包括我们还有个老党员老肖，从战场下来的，当年还是二级英雄的称号，他也是给大家服务最多的人。
All of us wear the Party emblem, including an old Party member, Xiao, who came down from the battlefield. He was also the second-class hero, and he served you the most.
现在有一个非党员小李也很热心，在方舱里写了入党申请书。
Now a non-Party member Xiao Li is also very enthusiastic, in the cabin wrote the application for membership.
他自己是个私企的老板，开了个小印刷厂，平时对党的一些政策，也是比较配合的。
He was the owner of a private enterprise and operated a small printing house, which was usually in line with some of the Party's policies.
昨天我已经把他的入党申请书向上级提交了，起码把进步的声音传达上去了。
I submitted his application for admission to the Party to my superiors yesterday, at least to convey the sound of progress.
我觉得我们真的是靠行动征服大家，确确实实、实实在在去服务，起到了示范作用，所以他也要求积极加入这个群体。
I think we really use action to conquer everyone, really, really to serve, played a model role, so he also asked to actively join this group.
临时党支部刚开始成立的时候只有24个人，有些人可能病情严重或者其他情况，想隐瞒自己的身份。
When the Provisional Party branch was first established, there were only 24 people, some of whom might be seriously ill or otherwise trying to conceal their identity.
后来看到我们做了这么多工作，而且有这么大威信，大家都愿意进来了，主动表明了身份加进来了，现在党员群里有36个人。
When we saw how much work we had done, and how much prestige we had, we were willing to come in and offer to add status. There were now 36 people in the party.
外面的支部书记给我们送了党旗、党徽，甚至有党的学习手册。
The branch secretary outside gave us the Party flag, the Party emblem and even the Party's study manual.
我们这个方舱，可以说在武汉市是最早成立党支部的（江汉区国际中心会展方舱医院2月8日成立临时党支部，目前已知最早），而且也是分片区管理，都是病友自动站出来为大家服务，自己当小片区的区长为大家服务，然后互相打气。
The first branch of the Party branch was set up in Wuhan (the earliest known temporary branch of Jianghan International Center Convention and Exhibition Fangzhou Hospital on Feb. 8), and it is also known as zoning management.
你想几百人生活在一起的这个地方，吃喝拉撒都在里面，生活习惯各个方面的问题会很多。
You want hundreds of people to live together in this place, eating, drinking and Lazarus, there will be many problems in all aspects of life habits.
通过我们努力服务，这里的志愿者、医生、护士大家一起协力，我们这个舱管理的非常井井有条，所以大家一门心思都能用在治疗上。
Through our hard work, the volunteers, the doctors and the nurses work together. Our cabin is very well managed, so everyone's mind can be devoted to the treatment.
现在我们舱里的和谐气氛，我自认为如果说武汉第二，没人敢认第一，哈哈哈。
Now the harmony in our cabin, I think if Wuhan is the second, no one dare to admit the first, ha ha ha.
OurCity病友如果稍微关注一下，其实现在有很多媒体都报道我了。
If you pay a little attention to OurCity, there are a lot of media reports about me now.
其中一个原因就是唱《歌唱祖国》那个视频。
One reason is to sing the video "Sing the Motherland."
2月11号那天得知第一批舱友痊愈出去，是我们第一次搞合唱，唱了《歌唱祖国》和《没有共产党就没有新中国》这些歌。
It was our first chorus when we learned on February 11 that the first batch of cabin mates had healed. We sang the songs "To the Motherland" and "No New China without the Communist Party."
当时是为了感谢党和政府，为大家做出如此大的决策，能够保证所有的染病之人在这里免费接受医疗，管我们的吃喝拉撒各种琐事。
It was to thank the Party and the government for making such a big decision, to make sure that all the sick people would receive free medical treatment here, and to take care of our food, drink and lavish trifles.
而且当时正好有医生当时来查房，我们也想感谢医生。
And we wanted to thank the doctor, who happened to be visiting the house.
刚开始唱的时候只能选大家都熟的，能唱就唱，不熟的就跟着哼。
At the beginning of the song can only choose everyone familiar, can sing or sing, not familiar with humming.
刚开始由于条件差，我是用我手机放在小喇叭上，让音乐声音大一点，大家一起合唱，同时我用手机看歌词。
At first due to the bad conditions, I used my mobile phone on the trumpet, to make the music a little louder, we sang together, while I read the lyrics on my cell phone.
▲图中拿着蓝色小喇叭的就是张兵我最喜欢唱的是《驼铃》送战友。
The blue trumpet in the picture is Zhang Bing I like to sing is "camels" sent to comrades.
不管医生、护士、后勤、心理治疗，所有为大家服务的，包括我们所有的病友，可以说是战友关系，我们是一条战线，然后对抗病毒。
Regardless of doctors, nurses, logistics, psychotherapy, all of us, including all of our sick friends, can be said to be comrade-in-arms, we are a front, then anti-virus.
我们体内是主战场，医生他是主要战斗力，然后后勤服务相当于是我们的后勤保障人员，所以我们都是战友。
We are the main battleground, the doctor is the main fighting force, then the logistics equivalent of our logistics personnel, so we are all comrades.
前些天不是网上了出一个歌《为了谁》，他们在武汉重拍的。
A few days ago is not an online song "For Who", they remake in Wuhan.
我就想到这个歌，我不知道为了谁，但大家都是为了共同的目标，把病治好。
I think of this song, I do not know for whom, but we are all for a common goal, to cure the disease.
2月12号、13号的样子，院方送了两个电视机，大概80来寸的两个电视机。
Feb. 12, 13, the hospital sent two television sets, about 80 inches of two television sets.
有人就看电视，有人就唱唱歌。
Some people watch TV, others sing songs.
这个时候大家度过了焦虑、病重期，属于恢复期的这些病友，包括我自己，就觉得可以起来运动一下。
At this time we passed the anxious, serious period of illness, belong to the convalescent of these friends, including myself, feel able to get up and exercise.
大家每天在这儿躺在床上一日三餐吃完了，又吃药，吃水果，又喝牛奶，肠胃有时候会很胀气。
We lie here every day in bed three meals, eat medicine, eat fruit, drink milk, gastrointestinal sometimes very gas.
我跟大家交流，用小喇叭去召集，136号床的一个姐姐就站起来，她平常是在公园里带大家跳民族舞的，她主动给我们编上一个简单的舞蹈，十六步、三十二步。
I communicate with you, use the trumpet to call, one of the 136 sister stood up, she is usually in the park to dance folk dance, she offered to make us a simple dance, 16, 32 steps.
现在我们每天下午三点半，唱一个小时歌，然后晚上七点半，跳健身操、广播操、广场舞，体力好的一个小时，体力不行的自己搞二十分钟、三十分钟。
Now we sing an hour a day at 3: 30 p.m., and then at 7: 30 p.m., we do aerobics, radio exercises, square dancing, a good hour of physical strength, and 20 minutes and 30 minutes by ourselves.
我每天到那个点，就拿小喇叭喊一下，“想唱歌的、想跳舞的”，一下子就聚集起来了。
Every day when I got to that point, I called out with my trumpet, "He who wants to sing, wants to dance," and all at once I got together.
这两天方舱医生推广健肺操，请护士来教我们，每次开始活动之前先做一遍健身操，拍打自己的穴位，都非常好的。
These two days the cabin doctor popularizes the aerobics, asks the nurse to teach us, each time starts the activity first to do the exercise exercise, pats own acupoint, is very good.
护士也会一起唱歌跳舞的，他们经常跟我们一起合影、拍照，包括录像，发在她们群里，看我们病友这么积极向上阳光的状态。
Nurses sing and dance together, and they often take pictures, take pictures, including videos, with us in their communities to see our sick friends in such a positive and sunny state.
所有活动都有我的份，十几年前我很爱唱歌跳舞的，那个时候30来岁。
All the activities have my share, more than a decade ago I love to sing and dance, when I was about 30 years old.
现在到这个年纪，有时候想去跳广场舞又觉得自己年龄还不够。
Now at this age, sometimes want to go to the square dance and feel that their age is not enough.
现在我跟那个教舞的姐姐说，出去之后向她学舞去。
Now I tell the dancing sister to learn how to dance after going out.
我这个人算爱聊天，好多病友我都能记住。
I'm such a chatty person that I can remember many of my sick friends.
1号、10号两位姓马的病友是回民，清真餐，有5个床位是无糖餐，还有几位老同志，因为口腔里有溃疡，后来安排了面条和稀饭，所以在这个细节上为大家做一点事情，心里也蛮舒服。
Two sick people named Ma on the 1st and 10th are Hui people, Muslim food, there are five beds for sugar-free meals, and some veteran comrades, because of ulcers in their mouths, have arranged noodles and porridge, so I am comfortable doing something for you in this detail.
毕竟来了方舱开始两眼一抹黑，后来慢慢在我脑子里，这些细节没办法不关注。
After all, the cabin began to black out, then slowly in my mind, these details can not be ignored.
之前方舱进了一个八十三岁的老婆婆，按道理不应该是收到方舱来的，而且她状态不太好，但还是收进来了。
An eighty-three-year-old woman had entered the cabin, which was not supposed to have been received, and she was not in a very good condition, but she was admitted.
我看她都是一副愁容满面，所以就跟她聊天，发现她原来担心她的儿子，60岁了，跟她住一起，但老婆婆没电话，只有家里的座机，后来跟社区联系，社区把他们家门撬了，发现他儿子不在家。
I saw that she was worried about her son, 60 years old, living with her, but the old woman had no phone, only a home phone, and later contacted the community, which stole their house and found his son was not at home.
我劝过她，这个年纪，你儿子不会到哪去的，他肯定在某个地方隔离。
I told her your son wouldn't go anywhere at his age. He must be isolated somewhere.
果不其然，隔了两天，我们帮她联系社区，问到她儿子跟她户口不在一起，所以去另外一个社区被带到酒店隔离去了。
Sure enough, two days later, we contacted the community and asked if her son was with her hukou, so we went to another community and were taken to the hotel.
后来她每次看到我都是笑容满面的，她还在我前一天做了第二次检查，如果阴性，估计她今天或明天就可以出去了。
Every time she saw me smiling, she had a second check the day before, and if she was negative, she might be out today or tomorrow.
还有个姓马的女病友，性子比较急，每天都急吼吼的。
There is also a female patient named Ma, quick-tempered, yelling every day.
你也知道，中年妇女音调高，一开嗓整个舱里都是她的声音。
As you know, the middle-aged woman has a high pitch and her voice is throughout the hatch.
医生、护士都去跟她说，外面心理疏导的志愿者要跟她沟通，但她到了50多岁，哪愿意在手机里跟人这么讲、这么打字，所以在沟通上还是有些问题。
The doctors and nurses told her that the volunteer outside was going to talk to her, but when she was in her fifties, she didn't want to talk and type like that on her cell phone, so there were some communication problems.
然后医生和志愿者就跟我讲，让我去找了她。
Then the doctor and the volunteer told me to go find her.
正好走在半路上，她要找我，因为别人也推荐她来找我，就跟她好好沟通了一下。
Just in the middle of the road, she wanted to find me, because she was also recommended to come to me, and she had a good communication.
我们党支部的宣传委员，封我当妇女之友。
The propaganda committee of our Party branch made me a friend of women.
我觉得这也算一个褒奖，但说实在话，也有点抗拒，我就是跟姐姐妹妹聊天，怎么就是妇女之友了！现在舱里如果进了新人，我们会拿喇叭跟大家讲一下注意事项，然后沟通一下，邀请大家进病友大群。
I think it's a compliment, but to be honest, it's a bit of a no-no, I'm just talking to my sister and sister, so I'm a friend of the ladies! Now if we have new people in the cabin, we'll talk about the precautions with the loudspeaker, then communicate and invite everyone to join the group of sick people.
一开始一个人总是拿着一个手机，感觉是一个人在战斗，心里总是失落的，但是一进来跟他招呼一打，跟他主动聊几句，他心里都是很暖的。
At first a person always takes a cell phone, feeling is a person in the fight, the heart is always lost, but as soon as came in to greet him a dozen, take the initiative to chat with him, his heart is warm.
说句实在话，他们现在跟家人都是说，在党组织旁边心里很舒服，舍不得我走这种话。
Indeed, they now say to their families that it is very comfortable to be near the Party organization, and that I am reluctant to go.
但要说自豪感、荣誉感，我都没有。
But when it comes to pride and honor, I don't.
你非让我去讲这种高大上、假大空的话，我还是觉得我们现在这种沟通就蛮舒服。
You have to let me talk about this tall, fake empty words, I still feel that we are now this kind of communication is quite comfortable.
快五十岁的人，对这些看的比较淡，从我的角度，赠人玫瑰，手留余香，我这个人把担子扛着，不会觉得好像做了蛮多事情，心花怒放。
Nearly 50-year-old people to these relatively light, from my point of view, the gift of roses, hand left fragrance, I carry the burden, do not feel like doing a lot of things, happy.
好多病友主动加我微信，就是一种满足。
A lot of sick friends take the initiative to add me micro-letter, is a kind of satisfaction.
你做了事，大家认可。
You did something. Everybody approved.
病友出舱的时候，我基本上都会跟他们拍照，然后把合照发在我们那个大的病友群里面，给大家一个信心。
When my sick friend comes out of the cabin, I basically take pictures of them and send them a photo in our big sick group to give us confidence.
之前跟党支部成员告别的时候，我们相约外面疫情过了之后，大家还互相走动走动、学习学习。
Before bidding farewell to the members of the Party branch, we met outside the outbreak of the disease, we also walk about, learn from each other.
▲出舱当天，张兵与病友拍摄的合影（图由受访者提供）我这几天应该也能出舱了，新区长我已经找好了，是一个二十六岁的特别阳光的小伙子，也很愿意帮助别人。
On the day of the cabin, Zhang Bing and his patient took a group photo (provided by the interviewee). I should be able to get out of the cabin in the next few days.
他是2月15号才来的。
He didn't come until February 15th.
那么按我们正常在里面待个十几天，他肯定是在我后面了，我放心交给他，而且他在外面就没什么症状。
Then he must be behind me, as we normally do for a dozen days, and I trust him that he has no symptoms outside.
但我在想能不能后面还为病友提供服务，想跟这边政府提下要求。
But I was wondering if I could still provide services for my sick friends and ask the government here.
一个是我已经有抗体了，可能我进入这个感染区会方便，另一个是其他人进来，心理状态是不一样的，但病人是一样的状况。
One is that I already have antibodies. Maybe it's easier for me to get into this infection area, and the other is for someone else. The state of mind is different, but the patient is in the same condition.
我们聊天能够很容易聊到一起，因为我们是一样的，从别人角度可能看着，哎呀受感染是妖怪，但是这里全是妖怪。
We can easily chat together because we are the same, from other people's point of view may look, alas infected is a monster, but here is a monster.
之前我出舱之后想做的第一件事，是想洗个澡，睡个好觉。
The first thing I wanted to do after I got out of the cabin was to take a bath and get a good night's sleep.
但是我待时间长了，包括昨天我们这边洗澡的也有了，这个愿望其实已经达成了。
But I've been here for a long time, including the one who took a bath yesterday, and this wish has already been fulfilled.
现在我出舱后的第一愿望是献血。
Now my first wish after leaving the cabin is to donate blood.
我有一个同学，因为病情反复就去世了。
One of my classmates died repeatedly because of his illness.
我那天心情也是有点不好，我通过跟其他人聊天把这个情绪调整了。
I was in a bit of a bad mood that day, too, and I adjusted it by chatting with other people.
现在说我们这些人有抗体，我们血液能够救更多的人。
Now that we have antibodies, our blood can save many more people.
我想如果我们早点有这个办法，我那个同学就能够救活了。
I think if we had had this way earlier, my classmate would have been saved.
在采访的过程中，张兵屡次因为种种检测而被迫中断与我的通话，我也因此在当时提前知道了他即将出舱的消息。
In the course of the interview, Zhang Bing was repeatedly forced to interrupt my phone calls due to various tests, so I knew in advance that he was about to leave the cabin.
2月22日，他已经康复出院，结束了17天的方舱生活。
On 22 February, he recovered from hospital and completed 17 days of cabin life.
按照规定，新冠肺炎患者治愈出院至少在7天到14天后才能采集血浆。
Patients with Newcomial Pneumonia were required to be cured and discharged from hospital at least 7 to 14 days before plasma was collected.
张兵的献血日预定在2月29日，也就是他出院的第7天。
Zhang's blood donation day is scheduled for Feb. 29, the seventh day of his discharge from the hospital.
@城市OurCity原创内容 转载请联系授权欢迎转发朋友圈History Review。
@ Original content reproduction of Urban OurCity please contact Authorization Welcome to forward History Review of Friends Circle.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
病患、区长、书记：张兵的方舱17天 | 武汉人⑦。
Patient, district chief, secretary: Zhang Bing's cabin at 17 days and # 124; Wuhan.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "城市OurCity";。
var nickname = & quot; City City & quot;;
var msg_title = "病患、区长、书记：张兵的方舱17天 | 武汉人⑦";。
var msg _ title = & quot; patient, district, secretary: Chang's cabin at 17 days and & # 44; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;.
var msg_desc = "封闭空间中的集体主义，风暴眼里的狂欢。
var msg _ desc = & quot; collectivism in enclosed spaces; revelry in storm eyes.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '不能没有「单向街」',。
Not without & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
subject_name: '城市OurCity',。
Subject _ name: & apos; City OurCity & apos;;.
var title ="城市OurCity";。
var title = & quot; City City & quot;;
