在人间丨疫情中一夜长大的少年。
a teenager who grows up overnight in an epidemic.
在人间。
In the world.
在人间living                      。
Living on earth.
在人间living。
Living on earth.
用冷静的叙述抵抗冰冷 | 凤凰网在人间工作室出品。
Resist cold & # # 124; & # 45; Order of the Phoenix with a sober narrative.
凤凰新闻客户端 凤凰网在人间工作室出品对于刚刚年满十八岁的少年小雨来说，2020年1月25日，大年初一晚上，是他生命中迄今最漫长的一夜。
Phoenix News client-side Phoenix Internet in the world studio just over 18 years old Xiaoyu, January 25, 2020, New Year's Eve, is the longest night of his life so far.
武汉下着雨。
It's raining in Wuhan.
第一人民医院发热门诊急救室外的走廊上，小雨和母亲相偎在没有温度的椅子上，等待殡仪馆的柩车。
In the hallway outside the fever clinic of the First People's Hospital, drizzle and mother nestled in unheated chairs, waiting for the funeral coffin.
急救室里面的台子上，是已经变冷的奶奶遗体，去世原因是冠状病毒引发高血压致脑血管破裂猝死，终年62岁。
Inside the emergency room on the stage, has turned cold grandmother's body, died because of coronavirus caused by high blood pressure sudden brain vessel rupture died, all year old 62.
殡仪馆的人告诉他们，汉口当晚有40多具病人尸体等待清运，需要到次日上午11点才轮到奶奶。
The undertaker told them that more than 40 bodies of patients were waiting to be unloaded that night, and that Grandma's turn would not arrive until 11 a.m. the next morning.
一直哭泣的妈妈在椅子上坐不住，靠着小雨。
Mother, who had been crying, could not sit back in her chair, leaning against the rain.
她的悲伤里带着歉疚，内疚自己没能替小雨爸爸把婆母照顾好，爸爸因为刚做了心血管再造手术被送到黄陂大姨家休养，听说小雨奶奶去世，血压一度窜升到180，一番急救才控制住；她也在歉疚没能替小雨爷爷留住奶奶，患有严重脑梗的爷爷在医院守到晚上十一点多，被妈妈送到了自行隔离观察的宾馆；妈妈的哭泣里还含有小雨三个姑姑的悲伤，她们来武汉探望兄长的病情，在春节前夕才回到安陆的家乡，各自活在感染疫情的阴影里，没能见到亲生母亲最后一面，以后两个姑姑被确诊为新型冠状病毒肺炎；妈妈的哭泣带着颤动的咳嗽，每一次类似早期症状的咳嗽都让小雨心跳。
Her father had just had cardiovascular surgery was sent to Aunt Huangpi's house to recuperate. Hearing that Grandma Xiaoyu had died and her blood pressure had jumped to 180, she was sent to Anlu by her mother.
忽然她的咳嗽变得剧烈起来，扯下了口罩要吐出什么，小雨连忙拿餐巾纸给她接着。
Suddenly her cough became violent, tore off the mask to vomit out what, light rain quickly took napkin to her next.
一口血。
A mouthful of blood.
一口鲜红的血。
A mouthful of red blood.
小雨的脑子里刹时一片空白。
The drizzle went blank for a moment.
从疫情开始，这个本来完整的家庭正在一步步变成剩下他一个健康的人。
From the beginning of the epidemic, the whole family was gradually being transformed into a healthy man.
眼下他整个人被悲伤浸透，却又不能听凭悲伤，需要自己把这片空白填补起来，把夜晚熬过去。
He was now so full of sorrow that he could not listen to it. He needed to fill the void and get through the night.
这个进程才刚刚开始。
This process has only just begun.
确实，从那个夜晚过去，短短而漫长的一周，他又经历了更多，似乎超过了此前十八年的全部长度，就和这座城市经历的一样。
Indeed, that night, in a short and long week, he had gone through more than the entire length of the preceding eighteen years, just as the city had experienced.
奶奶是1月23号去医院检查的。
Grandma went to the hospital for a check-up on January 23rd.
之前几天就有轻微咳嗽症状，感觉身上没力气，但疫情的消息还没有全面发布，家人又忙于小雨爸爸的病情，都以为奶奶只是普通的感冒，来自于采办年货的奔波。
A few days ago there have been mild cough symptoms, feel powerless, but the news of the epidemic has not been fully released, family members are busy with Xiaoyu Dad's illness, all think that grandmother is just a common cold, from the procurement of New Year's goods rush.
小雨的家在友谊路，靠近汉口火车站，附近有一个菜场，奶奶经常去菜场采购。
Xiaoyu's home in Friendship Road, near Hankou railway station, nearby there is a vegetable farm, grandmother often go shopping.
奶奶发病之前，小雨爸爸一直在医院住了20多天院，接受动脉置换手术，19号才出院，妈妈一直在照料陪伴。
Grandmother before the onset of illness, Xiaoyu father has been living in hospital for more than 20 days, undergoing arterial replacement surgery, 19 discharged, mother has been looking after the company.
因为担心武汉的疫情，妈妈把爸爸送去了黄陂大姨家休养，才有功夫全力关注奶奶的病情，这时奶奶已经从腹泻发展到不想吃东西了。
Worried about the epidemic situation in Wuhan, my mother sent my father to Aunt Huangpi's house for rest and recuperation. Only then could I pay full attention to Grandma's condition.
这时新型肺炎疫情逐渐披露，1月23日上午十点，武汉封城，全家人顿时紧张起来，一个小时后就送奶奶去武汉红十字会医院检查，发热门诊已是人山人海，长龙一直排到了大街上，咳嗽声此起彼伏，从早上挂号到做胸片，晚上十一点还没打上消炎针。
At that time, the new pneumonia epidemic gradually revealed, Wuhan morning 10: 00 a.m., the whole family immediately tense up, an hour later sent Grandma to Wuhan Red Cross Hospital to check, fever clinic has been a sea of people, Changlong lined up to the streets, cough from the morning to do chest film, 11 p.m. has not been put on anti-inflammatory needle.
医生诊断奶奶病情严重需要留院观察，但病床爆满，不能收治，也没有核酸试剂可供检测确诊，只能嘱咐回家隔离治疗。
The doctor diagnosed her serious condition and needed to stay in the hospital, but the beds were full, could not be admitted, there was no nucleic acid reagent for diagnosis, only to order home isolation treatment.
在人头攒动一床难求的医院，小雨第一次感到“内心有些崩溃，无力”。
In the crowded hospital, Xiaoyu for the first time felt "a little crumbling, powerless."
回家之后，妈妈和小雨都出现了发热症状，但奶奶病情的加重，和发热门诊的拥堵，使他们无暇求诊自顾，只能喝一般的感冒药和自我防护。
When they got home, Mom and Xiaoyu both had febrile symptoms, but the aggravation of Grandma's condition and the congestion in the hot clinic prevented them from seeking medical attention and had to drink ordinary cold remedies and self-protection.
奶奶在家服用消炎的阿奇霉素和奥司他韦，热度降下来了，家里草草过了一个年节。
Grandma took the anti-inflammatory azithromycin and oseltamivir at home, the fever dropped and the family spent a rough holiday.
大年初一早晨，奶奶不想起床，妈妈觉得不对劲，打电话给身在安陆的二姑娟子，娟子拨打120，还发动所有在武汉的亲戚打120，要么占线排队，要么回复没救护车。
On the morning of New Year's Day, Grandma didn't want to get up, but her mother felt something was wrong. She called Ergu Juanzi in Anlu, Juanzi Dialing 120, and urged all her relatives in Wuhan to call 120, either to busy the line or to reply that there was no ambulance.
到了傍晚奶奶有些神志不清了，小雨和妈妈再次拨打了120，120说整个汉口区派不出一辆救护车，要求自行送医院，而且说明到了医院仍旧没有床位，要排队就诊。
In the evening Grandma was delirious. Xiao Yu and her mother dialed 120 again. 120 She said that an ambulance could not be sent to the whole Hankou district and asked to be taken to hospital.
小雨和妈妈去社区医院求助，社区医院说没有轮椅担架，妈妈只好自己开车去离得比较近的武汉市第一医院租了一架共享轮椅，搬回了家中，小雨和妈妈一起把奶奶抱到了轮椅上，再开车送到医院去，路上奶奶已经昏迷，嘴角流淌血沫。
Xiao Yu and her mother went to the community hospital for help. The community hospital said there was no wheelchair stretcher, so she rented a shared wheelchair and moved back home. Together with her mother, Xiao Yu took her grandmother to a wheelchair and drove her to the hospital.
因为定点医院离得远又没床位，只能就近送到有发热门诊的第一医院，到医院挂急诊，送进抢救室，二十分钟之后医生出来宣布，人送来的时候已经过世。
Since the designated hospital was far away and had no beds, it had to be brought close to the first hospital with a fever clinic, to the hospital for emergency treatment and to the emergency room. Twenty minutes later, the doctor came out and announced that the person had passed away.
医院诊断，奶奶的死因是冠状性病毒引发高血压导致脑血管破裂猝死。
The hospital diagnosed the cause of Grandma's death as sudden brain vessel rupture caused by coronary virus-induced hypertension.
但因为没有做核酸检测，并不能算是新型肺炎确诊病人。
But the absence of a nucleic acid test does not qualify as a diagnosis of new pneumonia.
按照武汉市卫健委的统一要求，不管是疑似新型肺炎患者还是确诊患者，死亡之后遗体直接火化。
According to the unified requirements of Wuhan Health Commission, whether the suspected new pneumonia patients or confirmed patients, after the death of the body directly cremation.
妈妈想要确诊，但医院没有核酸试剂，只好在协议书上签了字，等待殡仪馆转运。
Mother wanted to confirm the diagnosis, but the hospital did not have nucleic acid reagent, had to sign the agreement, waiting for the funeral parlour transshipment.
奶奶的遗体仍旧留在急救台上，另外一张台子上还有一个被抢救的疑似新型肺炎患者。
Grandma's body remained on the first aid desk, and on the other was a suspected new type of pneumonia.
这位30多岁的患者晚上被抢救过来，但第二天早晨10点仍旧病情恶化去世了。
The 30-year-old patient was rescued at night, but died at 10 a.m. the next morning.
担心奶奶会怕冷，小雨把从家里带来的一床绿色碎花被子盖在了奶奶身上。
Fearing that Grandma would be afraid of the cold, the rain covered Grandma with a green tattered quilt that she had brought home.
在一整夜的等待中，小雨和妈妈没有再进去看奶奶，怕一见之下承受不住。
All night long, Xiao Yu and his mother did not go in to see Grandma, afraid to see under the next can not bear.
幸好妈妈的咳血止住了。
Fortunately my mother's hemoptysis stopped.
夜晚漫长又迷茫，小雨难以相信一周前好好的奶奶，现在就这样没了，连一个确诊患者的身份都没有。
The night was long and misty, and it was hard to believe that a good grandmother a week ago was gone, not even a confirmed patient.
此刻倚靠在自己身边的妈妈，也可能有天会被什么带走。
Now lean on the side of his mother, may one day be taken away by anything.
以往在小雨爱玩的电脑游戏里，英雄总是有机会打爆怪物拯救世界，现实中却什么也改变不了，小雨感到了比高考失败时更真实的无力感。
In the past in the light rain love to play computer games, heroes always have the opportunity to blow up monsters to save the world, but in reality nothing can change, Xiaoyu feel more than the failure of the college entrance examination more real sense of powerlessness.
上午殡仪馆的人带走奶奶之前，小雨和妈妈最后进去看了奶奶一眼。
Before the mortician took Grandma away in the morning, Xiao Yu and his mother took one last look at Grandma.
奶奶的脸色是灰白的，嘴张着，像仍在努力吸取肺中缺少的空气。
Grandma's face was gray and her mouth was open, as though she was still trying to suck the air out of her lungs.
穿着防护服的殡仪馆人员给奶奶换上了过年买的新外套，小雨目睹他们将奶奶包入一匹黄色的布，搬上了运尸车，15天之后才能去取骨灰。
The undertaker in the suit changed Grandma's new New Year's coat, and Xiaoyu watched as they wrapped her in a yellow cloth and loaded her into a body truck before she could collect the ashes 15 days later.
这是小雨最后一次见到奶奶了。
It was the last time Xiao Yu saw Grandma.
走出门诊大楼，眼泪和雨水汇在一起，嘴里尝到冰凉的滋味。
Out of the clinic building, tears and rain come together and taste cold in your mouth.
小雨和奶奶格外亲密。
Xiao Yu and Grandma were very close.
小雨的童年是在安陆老家度过的，一岁时爸妈就到武汉打拼，小雨在爷爷奶奶抚养和姑姑照看之下长大，到了13岁上初中才来到武汉。
Xiaoyu spent his childhood in his hometown of Anlu. When he was one year old, his parents fought in Wuhan. Xiao Yu grew up under the care of his grandparents and aunts.
以后父母把爷爷奶奶也接来武汉团聚，小雨经常喜欢呆在他们的房间里。
Later parents will also bring grandparents to Wuhan reunion, Xiaoyu often like to stay in their room.
奶奶房间里有一盏微红色壁灯，像是打开了翅膀的蝴蝶，去世那夜离家的时候，灯已经亮了。
There was a little red wall lamp in Grandma's room. It was like a butterfly with open wings. When she left home the night she died, the light was on.
回到家中，小雨打开了这盏灯，到现在让它一直亮着，布下微红的光晕和翅影。
Back home, the light rain turned on the light, and now let it stay on, placing a reddish halo and shadow.
奶奶生前采购的腊肉和腊鱼，现在一直悬挂在家里，爸爸不让动。
Grandmother bought bacon and bacon, now hanging at home, father refused to move.
是忌讳，也是纪念。
Taboo is also a memorial.
送走了奶奶，妈妈回到家中开始发热，还有些咳嗽，以后几天中时有反复。
Farewell to my grandmother, my mother came home to start a fever, but also a few coughing, the next few days there were repeated.
因为此前陪奶奶看病在发热门诊的经历，妈妈没有去医院，自行在家隔离观察。
Because accompany grandma to see a doctor in febrile clinic experience before, mother did not go to hospital, oneself isolated observation at home.
到了大年初六晚上，妈妈的呼吸变得困难起来，浑身颤抖。
On the sixth night of New Year's Day, my mother's breathing became difficult and she trembled.
当初奶奶发病的症状浮现在小雨面前，他一下子紧张起来，赶紧拨打120，一直拨打了4分钟才接通，对方说整个汉口区都没有车，前面已经有300个患者在排队。
At the beginning of Grandma's symptoms emerged in front of light rain, he suddenly tense up, immediately dial 120, dial 4 minutes to connect, the other side said that the entire Hankou area has no cars, there are 300 patients in front of the queue.
小雨接着拨打社区电话，社区值班人员调了一辆城管用的平板车来，把妈妈送到最近的武汉市中心医院，到医院后医生做检查，呼吸又缓解过来，胸透已经双肺感染，和当初奶奶的胸片基本一致，排除普通病毒性感冒，但无法做核酸测试，确诊为新型肺炎。
Xiao Yu then dialed the community telephone, the community duty staff transferred a municipal flatbed car to the nearest Wuhan city central hospital, to the hospital after the doctor's examination, breathing remission, chest X-rays have been almost the same as grandmother's chest, excluding common viral cold, but unable to do nucleic acid tests, confirmed as a new pneumonia.
小雨问医生能不能住院，或者吸氧和注射生理盐水，医生说是不能打，因为中心医院不是定点医院，只能做检查，没有治疗床位，整个医院里面只有抢救室里面的五张病床，都在抢救非常危重的新型肺炎病人。
Xiaoyu asked if the doctor can be hospitalized, or oxygen and saline injection, the doctor said can not fight, because the central hospital is not a designated hospital, can only do inspection, there is no treatment beds, the hospital only inside the rescue room inside the five beds, are very critical of the new pneumonia patients.
小雨只能陪着妈妈回家，自行服药，等待第二天再去医院打针。
Xiao Yu can only accompany her mother home, self-medication, waiting for the next day to go to the hospital injection.
第二天妈妈好转了一些，自行开车去定点医院打针，从早晨10点排队到晚上六点，没吃没喝，走前小雨煮了几个鸡蛋让妈妈带上。
The next day her mother was better. She drove to the appointed hospital for an injection. From 10 am to 6 pm, she didn't eat or drink.
1月31号上午，妈妈再次感觉呼吸困难，缓解之后自己又出门打针。
On the morning of January 31, my mother again had difficulty breathing and then went out to give an injection.
因为打的是普通抗感染药物，她希望能在社区医院注射，但按照武汉市防治新型冠状病毒性肺炎的统一规定，必须前往定点医院。
She wanted to be injected in a community hospital because she was on a common anti-infective drug, but had to go to a designated hospital in accordance with Wuhan's unified policy for the prevention and treatment of new coronavirus pneumonia.
妈妈出门之后，小雨也离家出门，去购买给妈妈用的免疫球蛋白，以及口罩和消毒液，家里已经一个口罩用几天了。
After her mother went out, Xiaoyu also left home to buy immunoglobulin for her mother, as well as masks and disinfectant.
购买药物程序也不简单，需要先到发热门诊开处方，持处方到定点药房买限购药品。
The procedure for purchasing medicines is also not simple, requiring a prescription at a fever clinic and a prescription at a designated pharmacy to purchase restricted drugs.
小雨拿着妈妈的诊断证明去医院，从挂号到拿到处方需要排三个小时的队，然后再去定点药房排队。
Xiao Yu took her mother's diagnosis to the hospital, from the registration to the prescription of a three-hour queue, and then go to the designated pharmacy queue.
这一次小雨买到了四瓶免疫球蛋白，15个n95口罩和两包一次性口罩，连同84消毒液。
This time it bought four vials of immunoglobulin, 15 n95 masks and two disposable masks, along with 84 disinfectant.
家里还有在医院开的一堆抗感染药品。
The family also had a pile of anti-infective drugs in the hospital.
这样的奔波耗费了母子大部分的时间。
This kind of travel consumes most of the time of mother and child.
下午快五点，妈妈在定点医院打针回来了。
It was almost five o'clock in the afternoon when my mother came back from the hospital.
经过社区的沟通，妈妈终于可以就近在社区医院注射刚买回来的球蛋白。
After the community communication, the mother can finally be the nearest community hospital to inject just bought globulin.
小雨陪着妈妈去了社区医院，回家之后自己点了外卖，又给妈妈煮了几个鸡蛋，送到社区医院去让妈妈边输液边吃。
Xiao Yu accompanied her mother to the community hospital, home after ordering take-out, and then boil a few eggs for her mother, sent to the community hospital to her mother to eat side infusion.
输液持续到晚上九点，妈妈的状态有所改善，母子一起回家，姑姑已经给妈妈点好了外卖，妈妈吃饭的当口，小雨才能够回到自己的房间，实行起码意义上的隔离。
The infusion continued until 9: 00 pm, the mother's condition improved, mother and child came home together, aunt has ordered a take-out mother, mother at the mouth of dinner, small rain was able to return to their own room, the implementation of minimum isolation.
这样近距离照顾妈妈，小雨自己的身体并非没有隐患，没有跟着妈妈去定点医院排队，也是防范被那里拥挤的患者感染。
So close care of mother, Xiaoyu's own body is not hidden danger, did not follow her mother to point to the hospital line, but also to prevent infection by the crowded patients there.
疫情发作以来，小雨患上了咽炎，总有咳嗽的感觉，体温也曾经暂时升高。
Since the outbreak of the outbreak, light rain suffered from pharyngitis, always cough feeling, temperature has also been temporarily raised.
但妈妈没有条件入院就诊，只能靠自己照顾。
However, the mother did not have the conditions to hospitalize, can only rely on their own care.
另外还有自行隔离在宾馆的爷爷。
There is also a self-isolation in the hotel grandpa.
奶奶过世的当天，妈妈担心爷爷年老体弱，又与奶奶朝夕相处已被感染，将他送去了酒店自行隔离观察。
Grandma died on the day, his mother worried about the old and frail grandfather, and grandma has been infected, sent him to the hotel to self-isolation observation.
但住上酒店也不容易，第一家住了两天后要求走人，担心住久了在酒店发病，爷爷求情说自己无家可归，找社区帮忙，社区让打110，110又说不属管辖范围让找社区，后来社区让爷爷自行换酒店。
However, it was not easy to live in the hotel, the first two days after the request to leave, worried about a long stay in the hotel, Grandpa pleaded homeless, to find community help, the community to call 110, 110 said not to let the community, and then the community let Grandpa change hotel.
第二家酒店两天后索性关张了，第三家也不让长住，直到1月27日转到了第四家，才暂无被逐之虞。
The second hotel was closed two days later, and the third was not allowed to stay until January 27, when it was transferred to the fourth.
小雨和妈妈一起陪爷爷去了酒店，妈妈为爷爷办理登记，以后每天的外卖伙食由家人在网上下单，需要服用的药物、抗生素和日常用品则由妈妈开车送去。
Xiao Yu went to the hotel with his mother, who registered with his grandpa. Later, the family ordered the take-out food online, and his mother drove the medicine, antibiotics and daily necessities.
但近日妈妈病情加重，送东西的负担就落到了小雨身上。
But recently my mother's illness aggravated, the burden of delivering things fell on the body of light rain.
爷爷需要剃须刀和换洗衣服，小雨给他送到宾馆楼下，爷爷自己下来拿上去，祖孙避免直接接触。
Grandfather needs a razor and change clothes, light rain for him to send to the hotel downstairs, Grandpa himself down to take it, grandpa avoid direct contact.
爷爷的一只眼睛因为脑梗已经视力模糊，奶奶去世的消息对他刺激很大，远在安陆的二姑娟子一直担心老人的身体，希望将他送到一家医院的心血管专科病房住下，检测胸部有无感染，一旦发现症状或者脑梗发作可以及时就诊。
Grandpa's eye was dim due to cerebral infarction, and the news of Grandma's death was very exciting to him. Ergu Juanzi, who lived far away in Anliu, wanted to live in a special cardiovascular ward of a hospital.
但这件事没有人能够做主，爷爷只好自己照顾自己。
But no one could decide, so Grandpa had to take care of himself.
2月1号上午，小雨终于去医院做了检查。
On the morning of Feb. 1, Xiao Yu finally went to the hospital for an examination.
因为没有发热症状，按照二姑娟子的嘱咐，小雨挂了耳鼻喉科，做了胸片，没有发现感染迹象。
Because there was no fever symptoms, according to Ergu Juanzi's instructions, Xiaoyu hung up the ear, nose and throat department, did a chest film, did not find any signs of infection.
这让他隐隐悬着的心暂时放了下来。
For a moment his mind, vaguely suspended, was set at rest.
“我年轻，没事儿”。
"I'm young, all right."
这是他在家长群里时常说的话。
This is what he used to say in the parent group.
三个在安陆老家的姑姑当中，两个也感染了肺炎，相比在武汉的小雨奶奶和妈妈，她们算是幸运地住进了医院。
Two of the three aunts in Anlu also contracted pneumonia, and they were lucky enough to be admitted to the hospital, compared with their mother and grandma Xiao Yu in Wuhan.
年前爸爸开刀住院期间，三个姑姑曾经轮流到武汉帮忙照料。
Three aunts had come to Wuhan to help take care of their father when he was hospitalized.
爸爸出院之前，二姑娟子因有事先行回家，使她成了家人中唯一的幸运者。
Before my father was released from hospital, Ergu Juanzi went home on business, making her the only lucky one in her family.
两个姑姑继续留下照料，直到武汉封城前夕才回到安陆，回去后先后爆发了症状。
Two aunts continue to stay in care, until the eve of Wuhan before returning to Anlu, back after the outbreak of symptoms.
大姑被社区送去定点医院，两天后经核酸检测确诊，属于轻度重症，肺部三分之二被感染，在医院隔离治疗。
The sister-in-law was taken to a designated hospital by the community and was confirmed two days later by a nucleic acid test.
小姑发热后就诊显示肺部轻度感染，遵医嘱自行在家隔离治疗，1月29号晚上开始再度发热到39度，呼吸困难，又被社区送去医院隔离治疗，经过吸氧和雾化治疗有所好转，眼下能够在家人群里互相加油打气。
After her fever, the sister-in-law showed a mild infection of the lungs, was treated in isolation at home on medical advice, had a fever of 39 degrees on the night of January 29, had difficulty breathing, was sent to hospital for isolation, improved oxygen and atomization treatment and was now able to support each other at home.
二姑娟子在替患病家人张罗着急的同时，也投身于网络疫情捐助。
Er Gu Juanzi, while worrying for the sick family member, also took part in the network epidemic donation.
身为在校老师的她，参与了一个由福清市总商会发起的海外侨胞募捐活动，募集资金200万元供厂家生产10万个n95口罩及20万副医用口罩，在安陆物资捐赠群里表现活跃，同时还在一个瑜伽群里自己捐献了1000元。
As a school teacher, she participated in an overseas fundraising campaign sponsored by the General Chamber of Commerce of Fuqing City, raised 2 million yuan for the production of 100,000 n95 masks and 200,000 medical masks.
但在自己家人面临的疫情困境面前，她多方努力，几近左冲右突却备感无力。
But in the face of the epidemic facing her family, she has worked hard, almost to the left and right, but feel powerless.
不论是试图让分明已经严重感染的嫂子得到确诊住院的机会、让密切接触患者的老父有一个合适的隔离观察环境，让侄子得到合理的保护，还是试图说服社区让嫂子就近打针、给身在宾馆的父亲购买和递送一只氧气包这样的事情，都是困难重重，何况还有已经仓促去世的母亲。
Whether trying to get a diagnosis for a seriously infected sister-in-law, giving her close contact with her elderly father a proper seclusion and giving her nephew reasonable protection, or trying to persuade the community to get an injection from her sister-in-law, buy and deliver an oxygen bag to her hotel father, not to mention a mother who has died in a hurry.
她觉得安陆当地的工作要比武汉到位，两个姐妹得到了及时周到的救治，医护工作细致，虽然明白武汉的疫情过于严重，还是觉得公开的疫情防控宣传和亲身感受有落差。
She felt that Anlu local work than Wuhan, the two sisters received timely and thoughtful treatment, meticulous medical care, although understand the Wuhan epidemic is too serious, but still feel that the open disease prevention and control propaganda and personal experience.
虽然知道患者人人急需救治，也想寻找关系门路为亲人争取更多的生存机会，却又难免感叹在疫情面前，“凡人如同草芥”，不管是去世的老母还是患病的嫂子，连确认自己新型肺炎患者身份的机会都没有，甚至算不上疑似，因为没住上院等待核酸检测。
While knowing that everyone is in urgent need of treatment, and trying to find a way to make life easier for their loved ones, it is hard to avoid lamenting that, in the face of the epidemic, "mortals," dead or sick sisters-in-law, have no, if any, chance of identifying their new pneumonia patients because they do not live in the upper house waiting for nucleic acid tests.
患病的妈妈也在担心小雨。
The sick mother was also worried about the light rain.
在家长群里，她嘱咐小雨一定要跟学校保持联系，“求他，万一我严重了，没有人管你。
Among the parents, she told Xiao Yu to keep in touch with the school. "Please, if I get serious, no one cares.
”事实上，小雨就读的武汉职业技术学院也确实跟小雨取得了联系。
In fact, the Wuhan Vocational and Technical Institute, where Xiaoyu studied, did make contact with Xiaoyu.
按照武汉市防疫的统一部署，学校班级辅导员和班上每个学生需要保持联络，每日汇报情况，小雨家中由于有亲人去世，成为学校关注的重点家庭。
In accordance with the unified plan for epidemic prevention in Wuhan, school class counselors and class members need to keep in touch with each other and report daily.
1月31号这天，学院支部书记给小雨打了电话，学校办公室人员对本文作者表示，一旦小雨本人检查发现感染，学校将与友谊路社区联系协调，争取安排住院确诊治疗。
On January 31, the college secretary called Xiaoyu, who told the author that the school would coordinate with the Friendship Road community to arrange for in-patient diagnosis and treatment if Xiaoyu himself found the infection.
2月1号早上的胸片结果出来，小雨安心了不少，也增添了照顾妈妈的信心。
February 1 morning chest film results out, Xiaoyu relieved a lot, but also increased the confidence to take care of her mother.
这天早上妈妈再次去社区医院注射了两瓶球蛋白，随后去武汉中心医院排队就诊，从上午一直排到晚上九点，医生一看CT图像就表示是新冠感染，但由于没做核酸检测，仍然不能确诊，只是在胸片上标示了“双肺多发斑片状感染病灶复查”“右下肺钙化灶”的字样，不过好消息是后面还有“较前略吸收、好转”的说明。
This morning, my mother went to the community hospital to inject two bottles of globulin, then went to Wuhan Central Hospital line up, from the morning to 9 pm, doctors see CT images to indicate a new crown infection, but because no nucleic acid test, still unable to confirm, marked on the chest "double lung multiple plaque infection focus review" "lower lung calcification focus," but the good news is that "slightly better.
这张诊断给了妈妈本人和全家人很大信心，她请医生开了三天的抗感染药物，准备回家自行隔离治疗，每天去医院坚持打针。
The diagnosis gave her mother and her family confidence when she asked her doctor for three days to prescribe anti-infective drugs, prepare to go home for self-medication, and go to the hospital for daily injections.
诊断结果出来后，妈妈还要留在医院等待注射，一直到午夜零点才能归家。
After the diagnosis was made, the mother stayed in the hospital until midnight, waiting for the injection.
小雨给妈妈点了一份定时送到的鸡汤粉丝，等妈妈回来后可以补上一天没吃的饭。
Xiao Yu gave his mother a regular delivery of chicken soup fans, such as mom can come back to make up for the day's meal.
白天小雨又去药店帮妈妈买了八瓶免疫球蛋白，傍晚自己去社区医院注射了两针。
Daylight rain went to the pharmacy to help her mother buy eight bottles of immunoglobulin, evening himself to the community hospital to inject two shots.
虽然从奶奶、妈妈到自己，绝大多数诊疗费用都是自付，球蛋白更是价格高昂，此时也顾不得了。
Although from grandma, mother to oneself, the vast majority of consultation fees are out of pocket, globulin is more expensive, at this time also can not care about.
爷爷的奥司他韦吃完了，小雨去买球蛋白时顺便买了一盒，带到几公里外的宾馆放在楼下，等爷爷自己下来取。
Grandpa's oseltamivir finished eating, Xiaoyu went to buy globulin and bought a box to take to the hotel a few kilometers away and put it downstairs until Grandpa came down to get it himself.
“家里健康的只剩下我了，这些都是必须我来做的”。
"I'm the only healthy person left in my family, and that's what I have to do.
干着这些事情的时候，小雨觉得自己真的长大了。
While doing these things, Xiao Yu felt that he had really grown up.
以往上高中时自己“放纵了一些”，喜欢打游戏，高考成绩离二本线还差了三分，只好上了职业技术学院的专升本专业，对于将来的想法，也无非是毕业后找个工作。
In the past, he "indulged some" in high school, like to play games, college entrance examination results are still three points short of the two-point professional, had to go to vocational and technical college, the future of the idea, is nothing more than after graduation to find a job.
入学之后小雨曾经报了班学吉他，也没有成功。
After enrolling in the school, Xiaoyu had applied to class guitar, but also failed.
现在小雨觉得，要好好考过专升本，以后找个好点的工作，毕竟爸爸生病后原来的公司关闭，妈妈又一直没工作。
Now Xiao Yu felt that to take a good exam, to find a better job in the future, after all, his father was sick after the original company closed, and his mother has been out of work.
CT诊断出来之后，妈妈让小雨出去找个酒店住着，免得被自己感染，小雨拒绝了，“怕她在家突然有情况”。
CT diagnosis, mother let Xiaoyu out to find a hotel to live, so as not to be infected with their own, "afraid of her sudden situation at home.
“成年了更应该帮家里分担一些，更何况是这种时刻。
"Adults should help share some of the family, not to mention such moments.
”姑姑娟子觉得，小雨是“我家最勇敢的男子汉”，“撑起了一个家，我们的责任都被他挑起来，想起来感动又很是难受”。
Gracefully, my aunt felt that Xiaoyu was "the bravest man in my family," "I had raised a family, and my duty was picked up by him, and it was hard to think of it."
的确，从奶奶去世的那个冷雨之夜，这个普通的武汉家庭和这个18岁的少年，都已经完全蜕变，在疫情之下勉力支撑着剩余的希望。
Indeed, the ordinary Wuhan family and the 18-year-old had all metamorphosed from the cold rainy night when Grandma died, struggling to sustain the rest of the hope under the epidemic.
新型肺炎疫情牵动人心，《在人间》现面向全国网友征稿：(一)疫区影像日记如果你身处疫区请你用照片（视频）和文字记录你所听闻和见到的一切照片不少于3张文字不少于300字投稿方式：微信联系人间君（zairenjianliving）（二）抗击疫情真实故事无论你是一线医护人员、志愿者、确诊或疑似患者及家属、已治愈出院人士等等，如果希望讲述疫情相关经历，请微信联系人间君（zairenjianliving）。
If you are in an epidemic area, please use photos (video) and writing to record all photos you hear and see in no less than 300 words. Whether you are a frontline health care worker, volunteer, confirmed or suspected patient and family member, cured patient or discharged person, please contact the ruler of the world by letter.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
在人间丨疫情中一夜长大的少年。
a teenager who grows up overnight in an epidemic.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "在人间living";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; at & quot; among men.
var msg_title = "在人间丨疫情中一夜长大的少年";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; who grew up overnight in the human epidemic.
var msg_desc = "这个18岁少年，勉力支撑着剩余的希望。
var msg _ desc = & quot; the 18-year-old managed to hold out the rest of his hopes.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '在人间丨疫区影像日记（二）：封城之后，我免费接送医护人员上下班',。
I carried medical personnel to and from work at no charge after the city was banned.
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '在人间丨父亲双肺感染严重，然而一床难求',。
& # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '在人间丨武汉封城第一天',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="在人间living";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; at human & quot;
