方舱医院没有黑夜。
There was no night at the cabin hospital.
陈莉莉。
Lily Chen.
南风窗                      。
South Window.
南风窗。
South Window.
冷静的力量。
The power of coolness.
方舱的概念来源于军事领域。
The concept of square cabins comes from the military field.
不仅仅是患者，对很多医护人员来说，也是第一次接触。
It's not just the patient, it's also the first contact for many healthcare professionals.
2月5日晚，3家方舱医院启用，分别位于武汉洪山体育馆、武汉客厅、武汉国际会展中心，现在还有多家方舱医院正在修建。
On the night of February 5, three Fangshan hospitals were opened in Wuhan Hongshan Stadium, Wuhan living room and Wuhan International Convention and Exhibition Center.
这意味着万余名轻症患者可以得到集中治疗，而此前因为医疗资源紧缺，轻症患者只能居家隔离，而居家隔离的隐患已显现出来。
This means that more than 10,000 light patients can receive intensive care, whereas previously, with scarce medical resources, patients with mild illnesses could only be isolated at home, and the potential for isolation has become apparent.
王俊是湖北省肿瘤医院内科医生，他和他的同事是第一批进舱的医护人员，他所在的武汉洪山体育馆改造而成的“武昌方舱医院”，有800张床位。
Wang, a physician at Hubei Oncology Hospital, and his colleagues were among the first batch of inbound medical staff at the 800-bed Wuchang Fangshan Hospital, a converted Wuhan Hongshan Stadium.
2月12日拍摄的武汉体育中心方舱医院用王俊的话说，轻症患者能跑能走有思想很独立，他们在这个基础上形成了与患者新的相处（医患）模式。
According to Wang Jun, the Wuhan Sports Center's Fang Cao Hospital on Feb. 12, light patients can run, walk and think independently, forming a new model of living with patients.
疫情迅猛发展的当下，这样的相处模式以及呈现出来的结果让人看到希望。
With the rapid development of the epidemic, such a pattern of coexistence and the results are promising.
这场疫情前前后后的那些故事，给这个一线医护人员带来了什么？他说，就是擦干眼泪，继续工作。
What do the stories about the epidemic bring to the front-line medic, he says, is to dry up the tears and get back to work.
以下来自王俊的自述。
The following is a self-report by Wang Jun.
新的一课武昌方舱医院是在洪昌体育馆的基础上建起来的。
The new lesson of Wuchang Fangkang Hospital is built on the basis of Hongchang Stadium.
我们刚到的时候，建筑工人还在施工，我们看到工程图，就发现了很多问题。
When we first arrived, the construction workers were still working. When we looked at the engineering drawings, we found a lot of problems.
比如大通铺，武昌方舱医院有800张床位，分成三个区，每个区就是200多个床位。
For example, Daotongpu, Wuchang Fang Hospital has 800 beds, divided into three districts, each with more than 200 beds.
但如果是大通铺，男女问题怎么解决？上厕所呢？我们跟工人说要做隔断，就是以20个病床或者50个病床为一个单元，隔开。
But if it's a big bunk, what's the problem with men and women? Toilet? We told the workers to cut it off, 20 beds or 50 beds as a unit.
2月5日凌晨入舱的患者，都是夜里从家里被叫过来的，那天夜里来了300多人。
The people who had entered the cabin in the early hours of February 5 had been summoned from their homes at night, and more than 300 had arrived that night.
他们进舱以后，如果说分配给他的床铺，他觉得冷，我们就先应急，把空床铺上的被子给他。
When they were in the cabin, if the bed was allocated to him and he felt cold, we made haste and gave him the quilt on the empty bed.
武汉体育中心方舱医院内，工人在进行整理和清洁工作第二天早晨，问题又来了，早饭送的比较晚。
Wuhan Sports Center in the square cabin hospital, workers in the finishing and cleaning work the next morning, problems came back, breakfast was delivered relatively late.
2月6日那天早晨，有很多患者都是九点多才吃到早餐。
On the morning of February 6, many patients did not get their breakfast until after nine o'clock.
早餐其实8点就到门口了，只是衔接上没有做好。
Breakfast in fact 8 o'clock at the door, but did not do well on the interface.
方舱医院刚开始的时候，进去的都是医护人员，保洁师傅、安保都还没到位。
At the beginning of the cabin hospital, all the hospital staff entered, cleaning master, security has not been in place.
医护人员的想法可能是我们只负责医疗上的事情，但是实际上在这里，我们要负责病人吃喝拉撒，所有的事情。
The idea of the paramedics may be that we are only responsible for medical matters, but here we are responsible for the patient eating, drinking and rasa, everything.
后来我们就规定，比如说早上8点有一班医护人员要交班，200多份饭就由他们给带进来。
Then we made it a rule that at 8: 00 in the morning, for example, there would be a shift for medical staff, and they would bring in more than 200 meals.
在舱里送餐很麻烦，因为这是传染病医院，医生需要严格遵循程序，我们有清洁区、缓冲区、半污染区、污染区。
It was difficult to deliver food in the cabin because it was an infectious disease hospital and doctors had to follow strict procedures. We had clean areas, buffer zones, semi-polluted areas, polluted areas.
不同的区域间送饭，不能进去以后再原路返回，要是这样一趟过去，那就全都被污染了。
Different regions of the region to send food, can not go back after the same way, if such a trip over, it will all be contaminated.
我们后来做的调整就是首先保证患者一日三餐准时吃上，同时把治疗赶紧给上去。
The adjustment we made later was to make sure that the patient ate three meals a day on time and that the treatment was given quickly.
方舱医院原则上都是口服给药，口服给药就是中西医结合，主要是阿比多尔和莲花清瘟。
Fang cabin hospital is oral medicine in principle, oral medicine is a combination of Chinese and Western medicine, mainly abidor and lotus rinse rinderpest.
在这两种方式已经给予的情况下，病人的情绪也就平复下来了。
When both of these ways have been given, the patient's mood calms down.
他们知道在这里生活有保障，政府兜底，治疗也有保障，有医护人员照顾，有药吃，就看到了希望。
They know that there is security here, that the government has a backstop, that treatment is guaranteed, that health-care workers are there, that medicine is available, and that there is hope.
刚开始的时候，有人问空调系统能不能开啊。
At first, someone asked if the air conditioning system would work.
空调系统肯定不能开，它是一个大循环，如果开了，污染区和物和清洁区全都污染了。
The air conditioning system is definitely not open, it is a large cycle, if opened, the contaminated areas and things and cleaning areas are all contaminated.
当时周先旺市长也来看了，就问能不能把出风口改造一下？这个问题专业的工程人员给解决了。
At that time, Mayor Zhou Xianwang also came to see, asked if you can change the outlet? This problem was solved by professional engineers.
因为存在粪口传播，那么原本体育馆里面的厕所也是不能用的，我们就建了单个的移动厕所。
Because of the spread of manure, the toilet inside the stadium was not functional, so we built a single mobile toilet.
每个患者产生的生活废物，也都是污染源。
Each patient produces household waste that is also a source of pollution.
要集中运送、统一销毁。
Transportation and destruction should be centralized.
很多患者都是半夜三更给弄过来的，他们自己也不知道要住几天院，带的衣物也不多。
Many of the patients were brought in in the middle of the night. They did not know how many days to stay in the hospital, and they did not bring much clothing.
有的患者有基础病，比如张三说我的降压药没带，李四说他缺心脏病的药，有些女同志没带生理用品，有人要剪指甲，这些问题，我们都得要想到。
Some patients have basic ailments, such as Zhang San said I did not take my blood pressure medicine, Li said he lacked heart medicine, some lesbians did not bring physiological products, some people want to cut nails, these issues, we have to think about.
如果全都由家人来送，那就不叫隔离了。
If it's all delivered by family, it's not quarantine.
这些都是非常细的问题，但又都是我们领域里的新知识，对很多医护人员来说都是第一次接触。
These are very detailed questions, but they are new knowledge in our field and are the first contact for many healthcare professionals.
患者怎么自治所有生活问题都不是大问题。
How patients govern themselves All life problems are not a big problem.
最大的问题是，患者进来以后怎么办？当时我们队长胡胜就说，能不能让患者自己管自己？因为在一些工作中，发现很多患者的积极性很高。
The biggest question is, what happens when the patient comes in? Our captain Hu said at the time, 'Can we let the patient take care of himself? Because in some jobs, we find a lot of patients are very motivated.'
我们就想发挥他们的积极性，实施患者自治。
We want to use their initiative to implement patient autonomy.
但编制怎么弄呢？第一还是先选党员，有二十几个党员，成立一个党支部，然后再划分区域，选区长，湖北省肿瘤医院负责122张床位。
First, select a Party member with twenty or more members, set up a Party branch, and then divide the district into districts, district governors and the Hubei Province Cancer Hospital responsible for 122 beds.
我们分了5个区，每个区大概20多张床位，区长是自己推荐，加上我们的一些了解，也主动去问询，一个架构就形成了。
We were divided into five districts, each with about 20 beds, and the district chief, on our own recommendation, and with some knowledge and initiative to ask questions, a structure was formed.
在这个基础上，我们建了一个医患沟通群，群里经常会有消息说，10点来领口罩，3点来领药品。
On this basis, we set up a communication group of doctors and patients, the group often reported that 10: 00 to get a mask, 3: 00 to get medicine.
人多，问题也就多。
More people, more problems.
比如说有人上厕所不冲，有人接开水洒了一地，有人吃东西乱扔垃圾，怎么办？这不是医护人员能管得了的事情，但是舱里只有医护人员。
For example, if someone doesn't flush, someone splashes the floor with boiling water, and some people throw their food and litter, what do you do?
那就需要患者自己提出问题，自己解决问题。
That requires patients to ask their own questions and solve their own problems.
他们说我们应该有一个方舱医院患者行为准则，他们互称“舱友”。
They say we should have a code of conduct for patients at the cabin hospital, which they call "cabin mates."
武汉客厅方舱医院，“舱友”们正跟随医护人员做“呼吸操”舱里需要24小时照明，以防有人晚上起夜出现意外。
At Wuhan Halls Hospital, cabin crews are following paramedics around the clock in the breathing room to prevent accidents during the night.
但是老开着灯，有人就睡不着。
But with the lights on all the time, no one can sleep.
有个区长就说可以用眼罩，那么眼罩从哪来？这个区长认识一些志愿者和社工，她就自己联系到了很多眼罩。
A district mayor said he could use a blindfold. Where did the blindfold come from? The mayor knew some volunteers and social workers and she made contact with a lot of blindfolds.
我们还有一个区长，他以前是个医护人员。
We also have a district mayor who used to be a paramedic.
他很仔细，写了一张纸条，记录他的症状，确诊时间，哪一天有怎样的不舒服。
He was careful to write a note recording his symptoms, the time of diagnosis and how uncomfortable he was one day.
对患者来说，这样有自发性的病人，比医生、亲人劝导要有用得多。
For patients, such spontaneous patients, more useful than doctors, relatives to persuade.
他出舱以后，还找了一个候选人来接管他的工作。
After he left the cabin, he found a candidate to take over his job.
一些人性的闪光点，在这时候都能看到。
Some bright spots of human nature can be seen at this time.
也会遇到情绪激动的患者。
Emotional patients will also be encountered.
有的是病情不太好，有的是看到住宿条件各方面差，想回家。
Some of them were ill, others wanted to go home, seeing the poor conditions of their accommodation.
我们主要是劝说，不过这样的病人不多。
We mainly talk, but not many of these patients.
究竟什么样的标准才可以出舱？首先要病程超过14天，连续三天不发烧，症状改善，这样我们才能做核酸检测，而且要连续两次核酸检测阴性，血常规基本正常，同时CT显示肺部正常，或者是在好转，这基本上达到一个出舱的标准。
What criteria do we use to get out of the hatch? First, we need to spend more than 14 days without a fever for three days, symptoms improve so that we can have nucleic acid tests, and we have two consecutive negative nucleic acid tests.
在这个基础上，再请国家医疗队成立的专家组逐一审核，审核通过以后，才能出舱。
On this basis, the national medical team to set up a team of experts to review each, after approval, before the cabin.
2020年2月11日，武昌方舱医院首批新冠肺炎患者出院，社区工作人员将出院患者接回家前两天武昌方舱医院有28个患者出舱，有一个婆婆问我，王医生我为什么不能出去啊？我是不是很严重啊？我们担心其它患者也有这样的问题，就录了一个视频，我在视频里讲了三点，为什么有人出舱，有人没出舱？一是虽然核酸检测阴性，但是肺部仍有炎症，二是有些患者专家组认为再观察两三天最保险，三是也有一些患者，觉得在这里有保障。
On February 11, 2020, the first batch of patients with pneumonia in Wuchang Square Hospital was discharged. Community workers took 28 patients out of Wuchang Fang Hospital two days before they were brought home.
主要是想让他们不要紧张。
Mainly to keep them from getting nervous.
有些病人愿意做核酸检测，但是做了之后又害怕看结果，他怕不好的结果出现。
Some patients are willing to have a nucleic acid test, but after doing so is afraid to see the results, he is afraid of bad results.
有的两次检测都是阴性，却没有安排出院，他就会担心，是不是出问题了？是不是严重了？如果这种恐慌情绪蔓延，会导致一些不安定因素。
Some of the tests are negative, but not scheduled to leave the hospital, he will worry, is it a problem? Is it serious? If this panic spread, it will cause some instability.
我们要通过一些手段来消除这些恐慌。
There are a number of things we need to do to dispel these fears.
我的理解是，只要防护做到位，这个病并不是那么恐怖。
My understanding is that the disease is not so terrible as long as the protection is done.
之前有医护人员感染，一是防护措施没做到位，二是当时对病毒（疫情）的认识还不够。
Previously there were health care workers infected, one is the failure of protective measures, and the other is that the understanding of the virus (epidemic) was not enough.
比如李文亮是眼科医生，协和医院感染的是外科医生。
For example, Li Wenliang is an ophthalmologist and Concorde Hospital is infected by a surgeon.
我还是比较理性的我出生于1988年，这是我职业生涯中第一次参与到国家公共健康中的大事件里来，我当时对我们院长说，我们满腔热血去，平平安安回。
I was more rational. I was born in 1988, the first time in my career that I was involved in a major event in national public health.
如果我不参与进来，会觉得是一个遗憾。
It would be a pity if I didn't get involved.
发生火灾，消防员冲到第一线，有人违法犯罪，公安冲到第一线，打仗的时候，解放军冲到第一线，现在是治病的时候，那医生就要冲到第一线。
Fire broke out, firefighters rushed to the front lines, people broke the law, the public security rushed to the front line, the People's Liberation Army rushed to the front line in the war, and now it is time for the doctor to rush to the front line.
既然来了，也不会想怕不怕的问题，我把防护做好，我加强营养，我休息得当，其它的事情就是天知道了。
Now that I am here, I will not be afraid of the problem, I do a good job of protection, I strengthen nutrition, I rest properly, other things are God knows.
2月5日，一名患者在江汉方舱医院对医护人员表示感谢我家人对我的职业期望是老师或者医生。
On February 5, a patient at Jiang Han Square Hospital thanked my family for expecting a teacher or a doctor.
我倾向于医生，因为觉得神圣。
I lean toward the doctor because I feel sacred.
我选择当肿瘤医生是有原因的。
I chose to be a oncologist for a reason.
我妈妈是肺癌，已经走了6年了。
My mother has lung cancer and has been walking for 6 years.
2010年7月，我妈妈诊断为肺癌，当时我在本科阶段，马上读大四。
In July 2010, my mother diagnosed lung cancer, when I was in my undergraduate year and immediately enrolled in my senior year.
后来读研究生的时候我就报考了肿瘤专业。
I signed up for my major in oncology when I was a graduate student.
前两年，我爸爸检查出来是肝癌。
Two years ago, my father detected liver cancer.
2017年做了手术，后来又复发，现在参加了临床实验。
He underwent surgery in 2017 and has since relapsed and is now participating in clinical trials.
目前来说，状态都还很好。
So far, it's all going well.
很多时候，我很内疚的。
A lot of times, I feel guilty.
我还没成家立业，妈妈就走了。
My mother left before I started a family and career.
我现在自己是个肿瘤科医生，我自己的病人来治疗的时候都是家属陪同的，我爸爸去治疗都是自己去的。
I'm a oncologist myself, my own patients come to treatment accompanied by family members, my father went to treatment on his own.
工作性质决定我们确实没那么多时间来照顾家人。
The nature of our jobs means that we really don't have much time to care for our families.
后来我就想，家里的事情就自己克服。
Later, I thought, things at home can be overcome by themselves.
人总是矛盾的，有时候也没办法，是吧？现在这个疫情谁知道究竟会是什么情况呢？其实作为医护人员，我们是知道得最早的。
People are always contradictory, sometimes there is no way, right? Now who knows what the epidemic will be? Actually as medical personnel, we know the earliest.
2019年12月30号，网上就流传一个武汉市卫健委的通告，说有不明原因肺炎。
December 30, 2019, the spread of a Wuhan city health committee on the notice that there are unknown causes of pneumonia.
我们第二天上班的时候也都在讨论这件事。
We talked about it the next day at work.
然后有新闻报道出来，但是有机构说“不是人传人”。
Then there are news reports, but some say "it's not human-to-human."
其实我有自己的判断。
I actually have my own judgment.
地点是华南海鲜市场，宿主是野生动物，病毒是冠状病毒，很难不让我联想到2003的SARS。
The location is South China seafood market, host is a wild animal, the virus is coronavirus, it is difficult not to remind me of the SARS in 2003.
我当时觉得这肯定不是一个简单的问题。
I thought it was definitely not a simple question.
后来出现了一个词叫“家庭聚集性”，在我们医护人员来看，就是“人传人”。
Then came the word "familial aggregation," which means "person-to-person" in the eyes of our medical staff.
此外，1月中上旬新闻不断爆出泰国、日本等国家出现确诊病例，我当时还在科室开玩笑，为啥这个病毒只传国外不传国内？结果第二天新闻就报道北京、广州等地开始出现确诊或者疑似病例。
In addition, the early part of January was full of reports of confirmed cases in Thailand, Japan and other countries, and I was joking in the department. Why did the virus spread only abroad?
我们就通知患者、家属、朋友，让他们戴口罩，我们只能做到这些。
We tell patients, families, friends to wear masks, and that's all we can do.
李文亮的事情对我来说触动蛮大的。
Li Wenliang's business touched me a lot.
他前面两次核酸检测是阴性，2月1号，还发了一个视频，跟大家报平安，说他目前状况还好，并说他会积极配合治疗，好了以后再到一线去工作，但是7号凌晨就走了。
He had tested negative for two previous nucleic acid tests, on February 1, and sent a video telling everyone that he was doing well and that he would cooperate actively with the therapy and return to work on the front line later, but left in the early hours of the 7th.
我第一反应就是惊讶，我的惊讶在于觉得这病情进展得太快了，我们人类对这个病毒的认识还是太少了。
My first reaction was surprise. My surprise was that it was moving too fast and that we humans still knew too little about the virus.
第二反应就是觉得遗憾。
The second reaction is to feel sorry.
他还很年轻，他的第二个小孩还没出生。
He is still young, and his second child is not yet born.
后来有一些人迁怒医院，现在武汉中心医院防护物资紧缺。
Later some people moved to the hospital, now Wuhan central hospital protection material shortage.
其实这个医院在这场疫情的战斗中贡献了很多，好多医生倒下了，好多院领导也都倒下了，他们都是无辜的，他们仍然会负责地站在第一线。
In fact, this hospital contributed a lot in the battle against the epidemic, many doctors collapsed, many hospital leaders also fell, they are innocent, they will remain responsible in the front line.
我还是比较理性的，就是擦完眼泪之后，还要干活。
I still more rational, is to wipe after the tears, but also to work.
每个人都要面对死亡，但是面对死亡的时候，我们还要干事情。
Everyone has to face death, but in the face of death, we have to do something.
很简单，一个病人走了以后，我们医生还要赶紧给他写死亡证明，要告诉生者一些注意事项，其它医生、病人还在呼叫你，我们没有时间抱头痛哭。
Simply put, after a patient has gone, our doctor must hasten to write him a death certificate, tell the living some precautions, other doctors, patients are still calling for you, we have no time to cry.
会有一种无力感，也会被人不理解。
There will be a sense of powerlessness, will also be people do not understand.
我看到过医护人员崩溃大哭的场面。
I've seen paramedics break down and cry.
这个城市里的每一个人都是英雄，政府的每一项决策，都需要他们的配合。
Everyone in this city is a hero, and every decision of the government needs their cooperation.
等把这场仗打完，我们医护人员就是退下来，隔离完之后，我们又重新回到原来的工作岗位，而患者结束治疗之后，他们也要投入到原来的工作岗位。
When the battle is over, our paramedics will retire, we'll be back at our jobs, and when they're finished, they'll be back at their jobs.
但是这后面需要政府做太多的支撑了，比如说有人失业了，有人有心理创伤等等，都应该是政府后续要考虑做的事情。
But there is too much government support behind this, such as unemployment, psychological trauma and so on, which should be considered by the government as a follow-up.
我们能做些什么呢？就是擦干眼泪、洗洗澡，投入新一轮的工作。
What can we do to dry our eyes, wash ourselves, and get involved in a new round of work?
作者 | 陈莉莉排版 | GINNY南风窗新媒体出品____点击购买最新一期《南风窗》点在看让理性的声音传得更远。
Rational voices are being carried further by buying the latest issue of Window to the South. & # 160; & # 45; & # 45;
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
方舱医院没有黑夜。
There was no night at the cabin hospital.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "南风窗";。
Var nickname = & quot; South Window & quot;;
var msg_title = "方舱医院没有黑夜";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "第一次接触。
var msg _ desc = & quot; first contact.
都是疑问，都在摸索";。
It's all a question, and all at once.
var title ="南风窗";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
