疫情下的中国留学生。
Chinese students under the epidemic.
姜雯。
Jiang Wen.
南风窗                      。
South Window.
南风窗。
South Window.
冷静的力量。
The power of coolness.
春节结束，学生本该开始上课，但新冠病毒仍在肆虐。
At the end of the Spring Festival, students were supposed to start classes, but the new crown virus is still raging.
教育部发文《利用网络平台“停课不停学”》，各地学校纷纷开通在线课堂，但也因此引发不少问题，老师感慨不想当主播，同学无奈不想上网课。
The Ministry of Education has issued a communication "use of the Internet platform" school stop learning ", schools around the world have opened online classes, but also caused many problems, teachers lament that they do not want to be anchor, students helpless do not want to Internet classes.
除了国内学子面临“失学”问题，海外留学生也受到疫情冲击。
In addition to the "drop-out" problem faced by domestic students, overseas students are also affected by the epidemic.
世界卫生组织在1月30日召开第二次紧急会议，宣布将新冠病毒肺炎列为最高警戒的“国际公共卫生紧急事件”（PHEIC）。
The World Health Organization (WHO) announced its second emergency meeting on January 30, declaring pneumonia the highest-level public health emergency in the world.
一时间，各个国家采取了不同程度的措施，有的停航，有的封锁边境。
For a while, various countries have taken various measures, ranging from stopping to sealing their borders.
美国1月31号随即宣布，过去14天到过中国的非美国公民将禁止入境，美国公民和永久居民及其直系亲属除外，从美东时间2月2日下午5点开始执行。
On January 31, the United States immediately announced that non-US citizens who had been to China in the past 14 days would be barred from entering the country, except for United States citizens and permanent residents and their immediate family members.
由于学制的原因，美国学校此时已经开学，只有部分因回家过年的语言课程学生可能受到影响，而且从宣布到执行仍有几天缓冲期。
Because of the school system, American schools are now open, with only part of the language classes that go home for the New Year likely to be affected, and there is still a buffer period of a few days from announcement to implementation.
身处南半球的澳大利亚中国留学生则没这么“幸运”。
Australian and Chinese students in the southern hemisphere are not so lucky.
澳大利亚2月1号宣布过去14天入境过中国的非澳洲公民将禁止入境，当地时间下午5点立刻执行。
Australia on February 1 announced that non-Australian citizens who have entered China in the past 14 days will be banned from entering the country at 5 p.m. local time.
此时的澳洲正值暑期长假，2月中旬才开始陆续开学，绝大部分学生被滞留国内，试图入境者还可能被注销学生签证。
In Australia, where long summer vacations began in mid-February, the vast majority of students remain in the country, and those trying to enter may be denied student visas.
2月1日，澳洲东部时间下午5:45分左右，澳洲总理莫里森和外交部长出席发布会，宣布从2月1号开始，如果澳洲PR和公民从中国返回澳洲，需要自我隔离14天和澳洲类似的是新西兰，南半球的留学生集体面临“失学”危机。
Australian Prime Minister David Morrison and his foreign minister attended a press conference on Feb. 1 to announce that since February 1, Australian students in the southern hemisphere are facing a "drop-out" crisis, similar to New Zealand, if Australian PR and citizens return to Australia from China and need to isolate themselves for 14 days.
集体“失学”“大家都很烦，肯定会有一些抱怨，直接不让进，也不给缓冲期。
"Group" out of school "" Everyone is very annoyed, there will certainly be some complaints, no direct access, no buffer period.
”Jens在墨尔本学习软件工程，原本这学期回去升大四， 这是他关键的最后一年。
Jens studied software engineering in Melbourne and returned to his senior year this semester, his final critical year.
他需要跟着导师做一个项目才能毕业，这个项目在第一和第二学期分成A和B两个部分，先完成A才能继续做B。
He needs to follow his tutor on a project to graduate. The project is divided into A and B parts in the first and second semesters.
如果他错过这个学期的话，就意味着他会延毕一年。
If he misses this semester, it means he will stay out of school for a year.
“比如商科，中国留学生比较多。
For example, there are more Chinese students in business.
但我这个专业的中国人很少，还是以当地人为主，所以也就比较不会顾及我。
But I am a professional Chinese few, or the majority of the local people, so I will not take into account.
”澳洲政府2月1号出台禁令后，由于十分突然，移民局、海关、卫生部、教育部等各个部门的口径都不一致。
Since February 1, when the ban came into force, the departments of immigration, customs, health and education have all spoken in an inconsistent manner.
这导致2月1号当天飞往澳洲的学生，有的城市允许入境，有的城市直接遣返，而2月2号入境的学生则有人被注销学生签证。
This has led to the cancellation of student visas for students who flew to Australia on February 1, from cities that allowed entry, to cities that were repatriated directly, to students who entered Australia on February 2.
“当时已经在半路的人都受到影响，一点缓冲的余地也没有。
"People who were already halfway down the road were affected, and there was no room for a cushion.
我猜这些人可能没来得及反应，或有一点侥幸心理。
I guess these people probably didn't respond in time, or just a little bit of luck.
”在新南威尔士念书的乐乐说。
"said Le Le, studying in New South Wales.
从中国飞往澳洲大概需要十几个小时的飞机，来回就是二十几个小时。
It takes about a dozen hours to fly from China to Australia and twenty hours back and forth.
这个政策影响了约莫10万还未入境的留学生。
The policy affected some 100,000 foreign students who had not yet entered the country.
澳洲留学生群体在刚开始感到焦虑与愤懑。
The Australian student community was beginning to feel anxious and resentful.
无法入境让他们不仅要面临延迟半年到一年毕业，还会造成不小的经济损失，例如一周的房租就是一到两千人民币，还有人租约到期却无法回去搬家，可能还要缴交违约金。
Not only do they face delays of between six months and a year to graduate, but there are also significant financial losses, such as one to two thousand yuan a week for rent, and people who cannot return to their homes when their tenancies expire and may have to pay penalties for breach of contract.
生活同时变得一团乱。
Life became a mess at the same time.
还有一部分已经毕业的学生也受到影响。
A number of graduated students have also been affected.
毕业后澳洲政府会给予2年工作签证，学生签证正常在3月中旬过期，更换工作签证需要本人在澳洲境内办理。
Upon graduation, the Australian Government will grant a two-year work visa. The normal student visa will expire in mid-March.
如果不能在此之前入境，这些学生的前程也将受到影响。
Failure to do so will also affect the future of these students.
不过，大部分学生还是表示理解，只是认为政策出台的方式太过武断。
Still, most students understand, though, that the way the policy is presented is too arbitrary.
在新南威尔士念书的Josie表示：“我开始是很愤怒的，后来静下心来想一想，澳洲保护他们国家的人民，我是理解的，但出台政策的方式让我非常不满意。
Josie, who studies in New South Wales, said: "I was angry at first and then calmed down to think that Australia was protecting their people.
不仅是我们留学生，当地学校也都措手不及。
Not only did we study abroad, but the local school was caught unawares.
我觉得自己没被尊重。
I don't feel respected.
”政策一直在朝令夕改，这让学生更加不知所措。
Students are even more at a loss as policy changes continue apace.
关于是否可以通过第三地待满14天后入境的政策，官方也是改了又改，留学生在咨询完澳洲各个部门后仍得不到确切的答覆。
Officials have also changed their policy on whether they can enter Australia after a third stay of 14 days. Foreign students have yet to receive a definitive reply after consulting various Australian departments.
有的学生觉得去第三国待14天太过冒险，在外面有交叉感染的风险，生病后医疗难以得到保证；也有学生因为一些迫切的原因必须回去，所以选择了签证相对比较容易申请的泰国、马来西亚、迪拜等国家，打算14天后尝试“曲线回澳”的入境策略，这在当时都还不知是否能成功。
Some students felt that going to a third country for 14 days was too risky, there was a risk of cross-infection outside, and medical care was difficult to secure after illness. Others, such as Thailand, Malaysia and Dubai, where visas were relatively easy to apply for, decided to try Curve Return to Australia in 14 days.
澳洲的禁令不仅让留学生面临困境，对于学校来说也面临经济上的巨大损失。
Australia's ban not only puts international students in a difficult position, but also imposes huge financial costs on schools.
乐乐表示：“留学本来就是澳洲本地非常大的创收产业，没有中国留学生，学校和政府就少了这一块的收入，而且中国留学生对当地餐饮和消费业也有很大的拉动力。
"Studying in Australia was originally a very large income-generating industry in Australia. Without Chinese students, schools and the government would have lost that part of their income, and Chinese students would have a strong incentive to local catering and consumer industries," Mr Le said.
”请愿者澳洲政府的禁令出台后，不同学校都有不同的应对措施。
After the petitioner's ban by the Australian government, different schools responded differently.
新南威尔士建筑系的Josie、Kai、Eugenia、Phamo、Michael等两百多名建筑系学生，一起给系上写了封请愿信。
More than 200 architecture students, including Josie, Kai, Eugenia, Phamo and Michael of the New South Wales Department of Architecture, wrote a petition to the Department.
“我们之所以决定做这件事，是因为最开始学校发了一封安慰信，说会出台网课，保证大家的教学质量。
"We decided to do it because at the beginning the school sent a letter of comfort saying that we would introduce online classes to ensure the quality of our education.
但建筑系要做模型、画图、和老师讨论，这个专业的特殊性让我们很难接受网课。
But the architectural department has to model, draw pictures, and discuss with teachers, and the specialty makes it difficult for us to accept online classes.
”争取自己的权益之前，留学生也先征求了当地学生的意见。
Foreign students also sought the views of local students before vying for their rights.
“人不能太想自己，我们也问了当地学生，延迟开学、调整课程等建议他们是否介意，得到的反馈是大家都很支持和帮忙。
"People can't think too much about themselves. We also asked local students if they would mind delaying classes and adjusting classes.
”学生们建了一个微信群，很快新南威尔士建筑系的学生就进入群组。
The students built a microcosm and soon New South Wales architecture students joined the group.
大家通过自发的力量，有人整理问题和诉求，有人统计，有人负责写信，有人翻译，整个过程大概一天就完成了。
Through the power of initiative, some people collate problems and appeals, some statistics, some responsible for writing letters, some translation, the whole process took about a day to complete.
某澳洲留学项目的群聊内容（图源网络）这封请愿信发出后，取得了系主任积极的回应。
After the letter was sent out, the dean of the department gave a positive response.
系主任连夜加班、商讨政策，尽最大可能让学生不要延期毕业，例如很多原本仅在第一学期开放的课程也会安排在第二学期开放等。
The dean works late at night, discussing policies and trying to keep students from postponing their graduation. For example, many classes that were only open in the first semester are scheduled to open in the second semester.
Sophia是当地华裔，她也很热心地参与请愿的召集。
Sophia is a native Chinese, and she was enthusiastic about the petition.
作为当地人，她更知道如何用合适的方式与老师沟通。
As a native, she knows how to communicate with her teachers in the right way.
“我一方面理解政府的政策，为了保证当地人安全，另一方面也觉得对学生很不负责任，校方的处境也很尴尬。
"While I understand the policy of the government and want to ensure the safety of the local people, I also feel very irresponsible towards the students, the university is in an awkward position.
”也有学生直接向澳总理请愿，请愿的学生之一Lily说：“我觉得大家都只是在群里说这个事情，都是学校在联系总理。
One of the students who also petitioned the Australian Prime Minister directly said, "I think everyone is just saying it in the group and the school is contacting the Prime Minister.
”这封写给总理的请愿书最后收集到约250份签名。
The petition to the prime minister ended up with about 250 signatures.
Lily也知道人数不多，得到回应的希望并不大，但仍希望为引起重视，尽一份微小的力量。
Lily also knows that the numbers are small and there is little hope of getting a response, but she still wants to do a little bit to get attention.
“幸运儿”和“不幸者”小婧是那个踩着点入境的“幸运者”。
"Fortunately" and "the unfortunate" Jing Jing, who stepped on the point of entry "lucky person."
由于疫情的持续升级，小婧的父亲怕孩子受到影响，一直希望她改签早点回去澳洲。
Because of the continuous escalation of the epidemic, Xiao Jing's father was afraid of her children's influence.
1月30号晚上，一家人一起等待世界卫生组织的会议结果，当新冠病毒被列为最高警戒的“国际公共卫生紧急事件”，他们立刻改签，清晨匆忙收拾行李，1月31号晚上从香港搭飞机回去。
On the night of Jan. 30, the family was waiting for the World Health Organization meeting. When the new crown virus was designated as a top-security "international public health emergency," they immediately changed their name, packed their bags early in the morning and flew back from Hong Kong on the evening of January 31.
小婧在2月1号早上7点30抵达澳洲，刚入境没多久，澳洲就颁布了禁令。
Jing arrived in Australia at 7: 30 am on February 1, and a short time after her arrival, Australia issued a ban.
不过她也不是当天最后一批入境的人，因为禁令从当天五点开始，所以有的城市五点之前仍有人可以入境。
However, she was not the last person to enter the country on that day, as the ban began at five o'clock that day, so some cities were still open until five o'clock.
让小婧讶异的是，当天澳洲机场也没有采取任何措施。
To Xiao Jing's surprise, no action was taken at the Australian airport that day.
出境的时候她填了“健康申报表”，量了好几次体温，但到了澳洲完全没填任何表格，也没测体温，一切如故，只有广播里有通知。
She filled out her "health declaration form" and took several body temperature measurements, but when she arrived in Australia she did not fill out any form and did not take a temperature.
所以当天她得知澳洲颁布禁令后，觉得很突然。
So it came as a surprise when she learned that Australia had imposed the ban.
尽管和大部分学生相比，小婧很幸运可以正常上学，但这不代表她没受到影响。
Although Xiao Jing was lucky to go to school regularly compared to most students, this did not mean that she was unaffected.
学业上少了不少可以一起讨论的同学，生活上合租的室友都没回来。
There are not many schoolmates who can discuss it together, and the roommates who live together have not come back.
小婧在情感上也很受打击，她九成的朋友都滞留国内，“感觉像一个人逃难回来。
Jing was also hurt emotionally. Nine out of ten of her friends stayed in China.
虽然我很幸运回来了，其他人的确情况比我糟糕多了，但我心理上、情绪上也不好跟人家说。
Although I was lucky to be back, and the others were much worse off than I was, I wasn't mentally or emotionally good enough to talk to anyone.
”小婧现在的临时室友Wei也很惨，因为被房东赶出来，只好先住在她家。
Xiao Jing, now her roommate, Wei, is also miserable because she was evicted by her landlord and had to stay with her family.
Wei不是留学生，在当地有工作，已在澳洲10年之久。
Wei is not an international student. He has a job there and has been in Australia for 10 years.
她也是乘坐1月31号的飞机回到澳大利亚，还没下飞机Wei就和房东说明情况和疫情。
She also flew back to Australia on Jan. 31 to explain the situation and the outbreak to her landlord before leaving the plane, Wei said.
Wei表示自己过去两周都在家里，也没有症状，之后公用的东西都分开使用，在家尽量不和房东见面，从自己房间出去会戴口罩，房东答应了。
Wei said she had been at home for the past two weeks without any symptoms. After that, everything was used separately, trying not to meet the landlord at home, and wearing a mask when he went out of his room.
在家睡了一晚后，房东让Wei离开14天，并且需要在医院做过检查后才能搬回家里。
After a night at home, the landlord asked Wei to leave for 14 days and had to be examined by the hospital before moving back home.
房东说自己年纪大了，也询问了医院、律师等，被告知不能和Wei一起住。
The landlord said he was old and asked about the hospital, the lawyer, etc., and was told he could not live with Wei.
Wei表示理解，但希望可以退还这两周的房租，但房东认为Wei是那个从中国回来的人，责任在她，经过协商后暂定房租一人一半。
Wei said she understood, but wanted the two-week rent refundable, but the landlord thought Wei was the one who had come back from China.
搬出去第二天，房东又让Wei回去家里消毒，从中国带来的东西都要消毒，包括Wei自己的房间。
The next day, the landlord asked Wei to go home and disinfect everything he brought from China, including Wei's own room.
Wei觉得房东反应过激了，但不想引起争论，也就照做了。
Wei thought the landlord was overreacting, but didn't want to start an argument, so he did.
房租的事情仍然没谈拢。
The matter of rent remained unsettled.
对Wei来说，严格意义上讲，她回来的那天政府也还未让从中国回来的人进行自我隔离。
For Wei, the day she came back, the government had not yet allowed those returning from China to isolate themselves.
2月21日，澳大利亚政府发布消息称，两名从“钻石公主”号游轮撤离的澳大利亚公民，已确诊感染新冠肺炎“我可以理解房东的担心，我去外面住也完全出于好心，但这个好心不应该由我买单。
Two Australian citizens evacuated from the Princess Diamonds were diagnosed with pneumonia on February 21, the Australian government said. "I understand the landlord's fears, and I went out to live out of kindness, but I shouldn't have to pay for it.
而且房东还威胁说要去移民局举报我，说我对社区和社会不负责，说我回去住就是置她于死地。
And the landlord threatened to report me to the immigration office, saying that I was not responsible for the community and society and that my return would kill her.
”这期间Wei的房东出去旅行，她也通过第三方仲裁法庭确认房东侵权和违约，当她想回去把东西都搬出来时，发现屋子还加了另一道锁。
During this time Wei's landlord went on a trip, and she confirmed the landlord's infringement and default through a third-party arbitration tribunal, and when she tried to get everything out, she found another lock in the house.
最后可能因为担心还要赔偿，房东也知道自己没道理，就退回了房租和押金，一切得到妥善解决。
Eventually, the landlord, perhaps for fear of having to pay compensation and knowing that he had no reason, returned the rent and the deposit, and everything was settled properly.
“她和我说话的态度，让我觉得自己就是一个行走的病毒。
"The way she talked to me made me feel like a walking virus.
但凡稍微客气点，我都不会采取这样的行动。
But if anything, I wouldn't have taken such a course of action.
”当然，这只是极端案例。
Of course, this is an extreme case.
我采访的留学生都说，虽然当地媒体有一些负面的报道，也听闻过一些零星的歧视性事件，例如公车不停、咖啡馆打出不友善标语；但整体的社会氛围，并未因为疫情感受到太多异常，身边的老师、同学也都非常关心他们，毕竟澳洲是个文化包容的移民国家。
The students I interviewed all said that although there were some negative reports in the local media and sporadic incidents of discrimination, such as bus stop and inhospitable signs in cafes, the overall social atmosphere was not so unusual because of the epidemic and teachers and classmates were very concerned about them. Australia is a culturally inclusive country of immigrants.
“曲线回澳”Micheal原本定的2月14号回去澳洲，禁令颁布后，他2月5号开始筹划从泰国入境澳洲，因为他朋友打电话给海关，得到的消息是可以在第三地待满14天后返澳。
When Micheal returned to Australia on February 14, he began planning to enter Australia from Thailand on February 5 because his friend called Customs and was told he would be able to return to Australia after 14 days on the third floor.
“现在有人在国内观望，可能会错过第一个学期的入学时间。
"People are watching from home now and may miss their first semester at school.
我们这帮打算走第三地入境的，如果政策允许的话，还是可以开学，但要等到2月14号后才能知道是否真的可以入境。
Those of us who are planning to enter the country for the third time can still start school if the policy permits, but we won't know whether they will be allowed in until February 14.
”仅Micheal所知就有两三百学生在泰国，数字还在不断增加。
There are two or three hundred students in Thailand that Micheal alone knows, and the numbers are growing.
“泰国人民很热情、友好，路边也有很多广告牌，写着支持武汉、支持中国等标语。
"The Thai people are warm and friendly and there are many billboards along the road with slogans supporting Wuhan and China.
泰国总理也说不会取消中国的落地签证。
Thailand's prime minister also said he would not cancel Chinese visas on arrival.
但泰国人也开始戴上口罩，便利店也买不到口罩了。
But Thais are also beginning to put on masks, and convenience stores can't buy them.
”虽然也会担心交叉感染的问题，Micheal说自己尽量不去人多的地方，坐车会戴着口罩并使用酒精消毒。
Although Micheal also worries about cross-infection, he says he tries to avoid crowded places by wearing a mask and disinfecting himself with alcohol.
从第三地中转虽然也是一笔开销，但Micheal觉得，即便澳洲政府让中国留学生可以马上回去，航空公司也已经减少航班，一票难求。
Transit from a third country was also an expense, but Micheal felt that even if the Australian government had allowed Chinese students to return immediately, airlines had cut back on flights, making it difficult to get a ticket.
现在泰国直飞澳洲的票价都在一万到一万五千元人民币以上，原本可能只有三四千元人民币，而且也会面临买不到票的问题，转机的话又会面临其他国家禁止中国人转机的问题。
Now the Thai direct flight to Australia is more than 10,000 yuan to 15,000 yuan, may have been only three or four thousand yuan, but will also face the problem of not being able to buy tickets, or face other countries ban the Chinese people from turning the corner.
Jenny则不愿意选择第三地入境的方案。
Jenny is reluctant to opt for a third-country entry option.
“我可以理解澳洲政府的决定，肯定要先对自己的国民负责。
"I can understand the Australian government's decision to be accountable to its own people first.
但对比其他国家，新加坡限制游客，不限制拿学生签证的人。
But in contrast to other countries, Singapore restricts visitors and does not restrict those who hold student visas.
我们很乐意配合隔离政策，但澳洲没给我们这个机会。
We are happy to cooperate with the segregation policy, but Australia has not given us this opportunity.
就算可以第三地入境，风险都转嫁到留学生和第三国身上，第三地中转像是澳洲政府给我们的一条路，有点像是想要学费，同时不想有一点风险。
Even if third-place entry is possible, the risks are passed on to international students and third countries, and the third place is like a way for the Australian government to give us a bit of a tuition fee, without any risk at all.
”2月14日过后，学生们也都很关心是否有成功入境的案例。
"After Feb. 14, students were also concerned about cases of successful entry.
Micheal告诉我，部分学生入境了，部分被航空公司拒绝办理登机，滞留机场等待通知和改签。
Micheal told me that some of the students had entered the country, some had been refused permission to board by airlines, and had stayed at the airport awaiting notification and renewal.
这取决于航空公司和澳洲政府对于14日的定义，究竟是到达澳洲时是14日，还是离开泰国时是14日。
It depends on the airline and the Australian government's definition of the 14th day, whether it is 14 days when we arrive in Australia or 14 days when we leave Thailand.
2月20日下午，澳大利亚总理莫里森宣布：澳洲政府决定继续延长入境限制令到2月29日“现在看来第三地中转可以，稳重起见还是多待几天。
On the afternoon of Feb. 20, Australian Prime Minister David Morrison announced that the Australian government had decided to extend the entry restrictions until Feb. 29. "It now appears that a third place is OK.
”然而落地签的有效时间是15天，所以还需要申请签证延期。
However, the time it takes to land a visa is 15 days, so an extension of the visa is required.
改签费用大概是350元人民币，改签机票要4千元人民币以上，由于航班少了，每天情况也都不一样。
The change of name is about 350 RMB and the change of air ticket is over 4000 RMB. The situation is different every day due to the shortage of flights.
目前，澳洲的禁令仍未解除，并宣布继续延期到2月29日。
The ban remains in place in Australia and has been extended until 29 February.
有的学生选择继续等待，也有越来越多学生准备通过第三地中转。
Some students choose to wait, while more and more students are preparing to transit through a third place.
和澳洲相似的还有同在南半球的新西兰，新西兰的禁令延期到2月24日，新西兰留学生和澳洲留学生面临同样的困境。
Similar to Australia is New Zealand, also in the southern hemisphere. New Zealand's ban was extended until Feb. 24. New Zealand students and Australian students face the same dilemma.
各国留学对比对比几个留学热门国家，就目前看来，影响最大的是澳洲和新西兰的中国留学生。
For the moment, the most influential countries are the Chinese students from Australia and New Zealand.
俄罗斯自莫斯科时间2月20号零时起，禁止包括持学习签证在内的中国公民入境，部分春季开学的俄罗斯留学生也将受到影响。
Russia has barred Chinese citizens, including those with study visas, from entering the country since 0 p.m. Moscow time on February 20, and some Russian students starting classes in the spring will also be affected.
英国、德国、法国、加拿大等国都没有采取严格的入境管制；美国虽然有入境管制，但因为学制的关系，对一般留学生影响不大，而且美国在宣布入境管制后给了几天缓冲期。
Countries such as the United Kingdom, Germany, France and Canada do not have strict immigration controls; the United States has entry controls, but because of the school system it has little impact on the average foreign student, and the United States has a buffer period of a few days after the declaration of entry controls.
在亚洲，日本限制有湖北和浙江旅行史的非本国公民入境，而学制的关系对日本留学生影响也不大；新加坡限制有中国旅行史的非本国公民入境，但拥有长期学生签证的留学生得以入境。
In Asia, Japan restricts the entry of non-citizens with a history of travel from Hubei and Zhejiang, and the relationship between the academic system has little impact on Japanese students; Singapore restricts the entry of non-citizens with a history of Chinese travel, but allows students with long-term student visas to enter the country.
下一波会受到影响的可能是韩国留学生。
The next wave could be affected by South Korean students.
韩国3月开学，除了禁止有湖北旅行史的非本国公民入境外，其他省份的中国留学生目前不受影响，各个学校提出了因应措施。
The school year began in March and, with the exception of non-citizens with a history of Hubei travel, Chinese students from other provinces remained unaffected.
韩国疾病管理本部21日宣布，韩国当天新增52例新冠肺炎确诊病例，累计确诊患者上升至156例。
South Korea's disease management headquarters announced on the same day 52 new cases of confirmed cases of New Crown Pneumonia, a cumulative total of 156 cases confirmed.
图为韩国民众在光化门附近等待过马路以韩国湖西大学为例，本科生开学时间由原来的3月2日延期到3月16日；入境的学生必须隔离两周（无论国籍，有中国旅行史者入境韩国都需隔离），自行租屋的学生在租屋处隔离，申请校内公寓的学生最好在24、25两日入境，一人一间，学校会统一提供餐饮和生活用品；在外自行隔离和校内公寓隔离的学生，学校都会提供一定防护用品。
Students entering South Korea must be quarantined from March 2 to March 16. Students entering the university must be segregated for two weeks (students with Chinese travel history are required to enter Korea). Students applying for campus apartments should preferably enter one room each on March 24 or 25.
韩国副总理兼教育部长此前要求避免疫情下排斥中国留学生，但教育部的管控方案也受到当地社会质疑。
South Korea's deputy prime minister and education minister has called for an end to the exclusion of Chinese students from the epidemic, but the education ministry's control program has also been questioned by local communities.
随着疫情的升级，韩国教育部建议尚未入境的中国留学生休学一学期或采用远程课程，但这些都不是强制性规定，只是给无法按时入境的留学生一个选择。
As the epidemic escalates, South Korea's Ministry of Education is advising Chinese students who have not yet entered the country to take a semester off or take long-distance courses, but these are not mandatory and are only an option for international students who are unable to enter the country on time.
教育部同时表示，3月开学以后，只要发生师生确诊案例，该所学校就可能面临停学。
At the same time, the Ministry of Education has indicated that the school may be suspended after the school starts in March as long as there are confirmed cases of teachers and students.
除了目前正面临开学难题的留学生，各个国家春季本该陆续入学的语言课程学生，也都会受到不同程度的影响。
In addition to the international students who are now facing difficulties in starting classes, language students, who should be starting school in spring in various countries, will also be affected to varying degrees.
无论是国内学子的网课难题，还是中国留学生的入境困难，在疫情仍不明朗的当下，所有人都如同深陷泥潭无法动弹。
Whether it is the domestic students' problem of net lessons, or the difficulty of entry for Chinese students, in the face of the epidemic is still uncertain, everyone is like a deep quagmire can not move.
作者 | 姜雯编辑| 李少威排版 | GINNY、STAN南风窗新媒体出品____点击购买最新一期《南风窗》点在看让理性的声音传得更远。
AT RIS & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情下的中国留学生。
Chinese students under the epidemic.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "南风窗";。
Var nickname = & quot; South Window & quot;;
var msg_title = "疫情下的中国留学生";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; Chinese student at & quot; with the epidemic.
var msg_desc = "疫情仍不明朗的当下，所有人都如同深陷泥潭无法动弹";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var title ="南风窗";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
