凌晨四点，这群人在守候什么。
At four in the morning, the group was waiting for something.
守群的。
Shrouded in groups.
南风窗                      。
South Window.
南风窗。
South Window.
冷静的力量。
The power of coolness.
每个人用自己的方式在守护为武汉，也为自己凌晨四点，梦乡深处的人们是否想过，此时的武汉，此时的协和医院，是怎样的场景。
Everyone with their own way in the defense of Wuhan, but also for their own 4 a.m., dream of the people in the depths of whether the time of Wuhan, this time Concorde Hospital, is what the scene.
截至2月19日，武汉协和医院西院累计收治新冠肺炎患者1055名，其中重症、危重症患者占比98.2%。
As of February 19, 1,055 new cases of pneumonia had been admitted to the West Hospital of Wuhan Concord Hospital, 98.2 percent of whom were seriously ill or critically ill.
在这里，广东驰援湖北医疗队员和湖北本地的医护人员并肩作战，日夜和死神争夺生命。
Here, Guangdong rescue Hubei medical personnel and Hubei local medical personnel to fight side by side, day and night and death for life.
来自中国南方另一座“英雄城市”的逆行者，以“他乡”为“吾乡”，度过了一个个难忘的“凌晨四点”。
From another "Hero City" in southern China, to "other townships" as "my country," spent an unforgettable "4 a.m.".
凌晨时分，中山大学孙逸仙纪念医院的医疗队员，顶着江城的寒风，从驻地出发奔向协和医院。
In the early morning hours, the medical staff of Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hospital of Zhongshan University rushed to Concorde Hospital from their posts in the face of the cold wind.
武汉街头的空旷寂寥，恐怕只有他们天天见到。
Wuhan streets of the empty loneliness, I am afraid only they see every day.
中山大学孙逸仙纪念医院的医疗队员背影“有人问我紧张吗，其实根本没时间紧张。
Dr. Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hospital in Zhongshan University was behind his back. "I was asked if I was nervous.
”中山大学肿瘤防治中心医生王娟说，一踏进协和西区ICU的大门，肉眼可见的高强度和高负荷扑面而来。
Dr. Wang Juan, a doctor at Zhongshan University's Oncology Center, said the high intensity and high load visible to the naked eye came through the doors of the ICU in Concorde and West.
“如果说我现在最想做什么，那就是摘掉口罩，好好呼吸一下大自然的空气，和同事一起，在武汉的街头走一走。
"If there's one thing I'd like to do now, it's to take off my mask, take a good breath of nature's air, and take a stroll through Wuhan with my colleagues.
”在隔离区的广东省第二中医院的护士赵莹莹，因为隔离区没有护工，她身兼三职，每天帮患者做完治疗之外，还要帮他们打水、送饭、打扫卫生清洁病区，以及宽慰他们。
Zhao Ying, a nurse at the No. 2 Chinese Hospital in Guangdong Province in the area of separation, works part-time as there are no nurses in the quarantine zone.
“虽然累，但看到病人恢复就很有成就感”。
Although tired, it gives me a sense of accomplishment to see my patient recover.
凌晨四点的街道2月20日，广东省第21批援助湖北医疗队共101人启程前往湖北。
February 20, the 21st batch of assistance to Hubei medical team in Guangdong Province 101 people left for Hubei province.
截至当天，广东驰援湖北医疗队2249人。
Up to the same day, Guangdong assistance Hubei medical team 2249 people.
广州同样是一个“晚睡”的城市。
Guangzhou is also a "late night" city.
在这里长大、工作的陈言，是一名事业单位负责内勤的普通职员。
The statement of growing up and working here is that of an ordinary clerk in charge of internal affairs in an institution.
她从未想到自己会和这2千多名前线的“白衣战士”如此紧密相连。
It never occurred to her that she would be so closely associated with the more than 2,000 white warriors on the front line.
她所在的单位广东团省委，和前线医疗队按医院等逐一建立了微信群，她是“群主”，负责守群，登记前线人员的每一个需求，反馈解决结果。
Her unit, the Guangdong Provincial Commissary, and the Frontline Medical Team have set up a microcosm based on the hospital, etc. She is the "group leader" who keeps track of every need of the frontline personnel and reports back on the results.
“前线医护人员时间太紧张，他们发出信息来，我一般都是秒回。
"Front-line medical staff are too tight, they send the message, and I usually go back in seconds.
这样他们可以放心做其他事。
So they can be assured of doing something else.
”“省疫情防控指挥部有人在前线做保障工作，但面对两千多人，肯定顾不过来。
"The provincial command for epidemic prevention and control has people working on the front lines, but there are more than 2,000 people in front of them.
所以我们就逐一建群直接联系、迅速响应，尽最大努力帮手医护人员解决一些不便，让他们少分心。
So we set up direct contacts one by one, respond quickly, and do our best to help health care workers solve some of the inconveniences and make them less distracted.
”陈言单位的负责人表示。
"said the head of the Chen unit.
“需求各种各样，大到医疗物资，小到防水鞋、冲锋裤，（需求）提出的第三天未彻底解决，我就会跟同事亮黄牌。
"The demand ranged from medical supplies to waterproof shoes and submachine pants, and I'd play yellow with my colleagues until the third day was over.
”陈言说。
"said Chen.
01这一刻，我们都是“守群人”在志愿者余莎的印象中，武汉不是一个多雪的城市，一般一个冬天也就一两次，而且往往雪下得极小，堆不起来，很快就化了。
Wuhan is not a snowy city, usually only once or twice a winter, and it often snows so little that it doesn't pile up and melts quickly.
2月15日，武汉却下了场不小的雪。
On Feb. 15, Wuhan had a lot of snow.
第二天出门前，她找出一件厚厚的羽绒服，把脸藏在口罩和衣领后面，紧了紧帽子，出门前仍然打了个哆嗦，“好冷。
The next day before she went out, she found a thick down jacket, hid her face behind her mask and collar, tightened her hat, and shivered as she went out.
”每次深呼吸一口气，眼镜上就蒙上一层薄薄的热气。
"Every time I take a deep breath, I get a thin layer of hot air over my glasses.
“需要5名有驾照、车技熟练的志愿者将车辆送到汉南碧桂园凤凰酒店（广东一医疗队驻地）。
"Five drivers' licenses and skilled motorists are needed to deliver the vehicles to the Phoenix Hotel in Bi Guiyuan, Henan Province," he said.
”微信群刚跳出消息，她便报了名承担这次任务。
Scarcely had the message escaped from the group when she signed up for the assignment.
“我们下班没有准点，医院离驻地较远，如果赶不上班车，要多等1个半小时甚至4个小时。
"We were late for work and the hospital was far away from the house. If we missed the bus, we had to wait an extra half hour or even four hours.
”中山大学孙逸仙纪念医院援鄂医疗队队长邱逸红在微信群描述，“确实大大影响了休息。
Qiu Yihong, head of the medical team at Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hospital in Zhongshan University, described the group as "really affecting the rest.
”医疗队往返医院和驻地，多数还是采取定时班车制度，医护人员多有不便。
"Medical teams commute to and from hospitals and sites, often on a regular basis, making it difficult for medical staff.
陈言马上把这个事和单位说了。
Chen Yan immediately said the matter and the unit.
一番周折，单位和某租车平台谈妥了，调动该平台在武汉本地的车辆资源组建应急车队，根据各医疗队需求落实车辆调度安排，保障医疗队员交通往返便利。
Some twists and turns, the unit and a rental car platform negotiated, mobilize the platform in Wuhan local vehicle resources to form emergency convoys, according to the needs of the medical teams to implement vehicle scheduling arrangements, to guarantee medical team transportation convenience.
截至2月21日，25辆车的需求就这样解决了。
As at 21 February, the requirement for 25 vehicles had thus been met.
由于疫情管制，从租车平台的门店取车，再送去医疗队所在的酒店也成了问题。
As a result of the epidemic control, it is also a problem to pick up vehicles from the shops of the rental platforms and send them to the hotels where the medical teams are located.
而余莎和其他志愿者的角色，就是车辆“搬运工”。
But Yu Sha and other volunteer's role, is the vehicle "porter".
2月15日这一天，通过微信群得知，等待他们搬运的商务车有5台。
On 15 February, the microphone community learned that there were five commercial vehicles waiting for them to be moved.
微信群，成了连接广东与湖北的一座小桥。
Micro-group, has become a small bridge linking Guangdong and Hubei.
广东团省委发起“青春情暖——白衣战士致敬行动”，火速与广东驰援湖北的医疗队建起了35个“支援前线医护人员”的微信对接群。
The Guangdong Provincial Commissary launched the "Youth Warmth - A Tribute to the White Soldiers" and set up a group of 35 "frontline medical personnel" with medical teams from Guangdong Province.
前线人员有需要但又不便通过前方指挥部协调的，就会在群里“求助”。
Frontline personnel who need but do not facilitate coordination through the forward command will "ask for help" in the group.
“每‘消灭’一个需要，我就会在本子上贴一朵小花。
"Every time I 'kill' a need, I stick a little flower on it.
”陈言打开贴满小花的笔记本。
Chen opened the notebook full of little flowers.
“有一些问题，我们必须依靠当地团委和志愿者帮手。
"There are some problems that we have to rely on local committees and volunteer helpers.
”陈言的手机上，与医疗队对接微信群同时“新诞生”的，还有和湖北、武汉兄弟单位及志愿者建的沟通群。
Chen's mobile phone, docked with the medical team at the same time "new", and Hubei, Wuhan brother units and volunteers to build a communication group.
“微信群里不讨论和发布与支援工作无关的话题，不刷群……非必要情况不得主动添加前线医疗队员的微信……”陈言的同事甚至起草了“支援前线医护人员微信群工作规范”，对什么人入群、承担什么角色都有明确的规定。
"We do not discuss and publish non-support related topics in the micro-group, do not add unsolicited advices from frontline medical staff..." Chen's colleagues even drafted the "Guidelines for Supporting Frontline Medical Personnel on the Role of Micro-Groups," with clear rules on who should join the group and what role they should play.
“我们和湖北方面联手，医疗队所提的需要基本两天内能解决。
"We are working with Hubei and the medical team needs to solve the problem in two days.
很多事，两省的志愿者帮了大忙。
In many cases, volunteers from both provinces have been very helpful.
”2月16日，本来计划中午1点出发，为了早点将车送达，武汉的志愿者们决定上午10点就出发。
Wuhan volunteers set off at 10 a.m. on Feb. 16, in an effort to get the car there early.
10点多抵达租车平台的王家湾店时，两台车因为一个多月未使用，电量严重不足，充电半小时后没有丝毫反应。
When they arrived at the Wong Ka Wan store on the rental platform at more than 10 o'clock, the two cars were underpowered for more than a month and had no reaction after half an hour of charging.
考虑到沌口的两台车也可能存在同样问题，志愿者们分头行动，2人到沌口，3人留在王家湾。
Considering that the two cars in the illegible mouth might have the same problem, the volunteers split up, two into chaos and three into Wang Jia Wan.
经过两小时的充电，终于在中午12点多，车子全部启动了。
After two hours of charging, at last at 12: 00 noon, the car all started.
志愿者们顾不上吃饭，立即开车前往汉南，1点钟左右将车送到中山大学附属第一医院医疗队驻地。
Instead of eating, the volunteers immediately drove to Hannan and took the bus to the first hospital medical unit of Zhongshan University around 1 o'clock.
志愿者们从租车平台站点取车后，将5台车送到医疗队驻地有意愿的志愿者不少，有时甚至还要靠“抢”才能接到任务。
Volunteers pick up cars from the rental platform site, the five vehicles to the medical team site willing to volunteer a lot, and sometimes even rely on "grab" to receive the task.
特殊时期，他们也成为了“守群人”，不在前去完成任务的路上，就是守着微信群等待分配志愿服务任务。
In special times, they also become "vigilantes," waiting to be assigned volunteer tasks while on their way to completing their assignments.
招募一发布，不多久就能满员。
Once the recruitment is announced, it will not be long before full strength.
“我不想休息，想多做事”。
I don't want to rest, I want to do more.
冯艳是武汉汉阳区团委招募的志愿者之一，也参与了送车给广东医疗队的任务。
Feng Yan is one of the volunteers recruited by the Wuhan Hanyang Commissary and also participated in the task of delivering the car to Guangdong Medical Team.
这些天她从未停下脚步，帮忙运送物资、分派物资。
She has not stopped these days to help deliver supplies and distribute them.
成为志愿者后，她看到了太多的感动和心酸。
After becoming a volunteer, she saw too much moving and heartbreaking.
而前线紧张、高效，承载着希望。
And the front lines are tense, efficient, and full of hope.
手套戴了不到一小时，因为不透气，冯艳已经感觉到手出了不少汗。
The gloves had been worn for less than an hour, and Feng Yan had already felt a lot of sweat coming out of her hands because of her breathlessness.
但常往返前线的她，观察到一线医护人员的手套是基本不摘的。
But she, who traveled to and from the front, observed that the gloves of front-line medical staff were basically intact.
“一定特别不舒服。
"It must be very uncomfortable.
”2月14号，冯艳结束一整天的忙碌后发朋友圈，“一生中最特别的情人节。
February 14, Feng Yan end a day of busy friends after the circle, "the most special Valentine's Day of my life.
”02“你们还需要什么物资，我这边联系联系”“还需要哪些生活物资我去商场去要一下”“那我再去找批发市场的人联系，我们仓库有横杠杆，可以给医护人员晾衣服”“我可以开车送到，包送！”沐沐是武汉某运动品牌服饰店的店长。
"02" What else do you need, I'll get in touch with you "" I'll go to the mall and ask for it. "" Then I'll get back to the wholesale market, where we have a horizontal lever to dry clothes for paramedics.
这些天，她也和志愿者冯艳一样，忙活了起来。
These days, she also and the volunteer Feng Yan, busy work up.
2月14日，气象预报湖北将气温骤降，多地会有降雪，广东医疗队员们没有准备足够的保暖用品。
On Feb. 14, the weather forecast for Hubei will drop sharply, there will be more snow, Guangdong medical team members did not prepare enough heating supplies.
广东佛山一家针织企业通过当地团委为广东援鄂医护人员捐赠1125套羽绒服，16、17日两天，佛山市气象台的寒冷黄色预警升级成了橙色预警，仍然有12名志愿者分秒必争根据医疗队队员的性别、码数，分拣出千余件羽绒服紧急送武汉。
A knitting enterprise in Foshan, Guangdong, donated 1,125 down-down suits to medical workers in Guangdong through local committees. On the 16th and 17th, the cold yellow warning of the Foshan Meteorological Station was raised to orange alert.
佛山青年志愿突击队志愿者谭艳玲说，“我们随时待命，团市委发出招募，我们马上行动，只希望羽绒服能快点到医疗队员手中。
"We are on standby and the municipal committee has issued a call-up," said Tan Yanling, a volunteer for the Foshan Youth Commando Team.
”佛山志愿者按医院需求和码数分拣羽绒服千余件羽绒服装车寄送武汉考虑到降雪后可能出现的路面情况，也协调多方买了一批雨靴和鞋垫给到医疗队。
Volunteers in Foshan, who sorted down feather suits according to hospital needs and numbers, sent more than 1,000 down-fitting cars to Wuhan to take into account possible road conditions after the snow, and coordinated the purchase of boots and insoles for the medical team.
广东省二医援鄂医疗队队长说：“武汉今天非常冷，雨夹雪，但收到了从广东寄来的羽绒服，心里暖暖哒！”“这边还需要普通长筒雨鞋供工作时使用，41码2双，42码5双，43码2双，44码1双”微信群里传来前线医疗队的需求信息。
"Wuhan is very cold today, with sleet and sleet, but it is warm and warm from Guangdong," said the head of the medical team from Guangdong Province. "This side also needs regular long-barrelled rain shoes for work, 41 yards 2 pairs, 42 yards 5 pairs, 43 yards 2 pairs, 44 yards 1 pairs, etc.
“有无办法快速买到手提电脑和打印机？办公急用。
"Is there any way to get a laptop or printer quickly?
”“我们急需A4纸一箱！”“能不能给我们提供63个晾衣架？”“有没有防水运动裤？”……医疗队收到长筒雨鞋和棉鞋垫湖北前线诸如此类细碎但不可或缺的需要还很多。
"We urgently need a box of A4 paper!" "Can we have 63 clotheslines?" "Are there any waterproof sweatpants?... The medical team received long-sleeved rain-shoes and cotton-padded shoes on the Hubei front, and so forth, and there were many such delicate but indispensable needs.
“中山一院需要的笔记本电脑及打印机，已经协调购买好了，明天下午就直送医疗队。
"The laptop and printer needed by Zhongshan Hospital have been purchased in a coordinated manner and will be delivered directly to the medical team tomorrow afternoon.
”武汉团市委对接人王博深夜在微信群里反馈。
Wuhan city committee docked Wang Bo late at night in the micro-letter group feedback.
电脑和打印机等物资已送至医疗队“给医疗队的东西，我一定尽最快速度送，价格也会低很多”，沐沐在微信上说。
Computer and printer supplies have been sent to the medical team. "I will send everything to the medical team as quickly as I can, and the price will be much lower," he said.
了解到前线医护人员需要防水裤，但从广东购买再寄送很不方便，陈言的搭档李英是在网上找寻到武汉本地店家沐沐。
Knowing that front-line medical staff need waterproof pants, but buying them from Guangdong and sending them back is inconvenient. Chen's partner, Li Ying, found the local Wuhan shop bathe in the net.
热心的沐沐听闻是为前线医疗队准备，二话不说开出最低价，开车送货到医护人员手中，并提出要送厚打底裤、袜子等，甚至医生出行有需要，她也张罗着帮忙。
The warm-hearted bathe was for the frontline medical team. Without asking for the lowest price, she drove the car to the paramedics and offered to deliver heavy slacks, socks, etc., even if the doctor needed to travel.
“其实，到底能帮上多大忙，我们心里也没底。
"In fact, we don't know how much help we can do.
但能做一点小事，我心里就觉得自己对得起武汉，对得起千里迢迢来武汉帮忙的人。
But can do a little thing, I feel in my heart worthy of Wuhan, worthy of those who came all the way to Wuhan to help.
”志愿者领队熊友明，在日记本上记录下日常。
Volunteer leader Yo-Ming Xiong wrote down the daily routine in a diary.
莫问来路艰辛，只因前路光明。
Ask not how hard the road is, for it is bright.
他们相信，“它已经睡了好长时间，它很快就会醒来。
They believe that he has slept a long time and that he will soon wake up.
”03“来到武汉，我反而有了从没有过的平静”“来到武汉，我反而有了从没有过的平静，很开心。
"03" Come to Wuhan, I have never had the calm. "" Come to Wuhan, I have never had the calm, very happy.
自己也不知道为什么，一点怕的意思都没有，我都佩服我自己了”。
I do not know why, the slightest fear of the meaning of not, I admire myself. "
2月18日晚上11：30，张凯在驾车从广东前往武汉支援的路上，发了这条朋友圈。
February 18 11: 30 p.m., Zhang Kai in a car from Guangdong to Wuhan support on the road, issued this circle of friends.
人称“虎哥”的张凯是一名退役军人，也曾当过警察，现生活在广东东莞洪梅镇，是洪梅志愿爱心车队的“主心骨”。
Known as "Tiger" Zhang Kai is a retired military, has also been a police officer, now living in Dongguan Hongmei town, Hongmei voluntary love is the "backbone" of the team.
春节期间，他和车友每天在东莞接送医务人员，紧急调拨人员、车辆……春节期间，在东莞接送医护人员的张凯张凯的武汉之行并不容易。
During the Spring Festival, he and his car in Dongguan every day to transport medical personnel, emergency transfer personnel, vehicles... during the Spring Festival, Dongguan transport medical personnel Zhang KaiZhang Wuhan trip is not easy.
他多次向广东省志愿者行动指导中心申请，要去武汉做志愿者，接送广东去武汉的医护人员上下班。
He has applied to the Guangdong Volunteer Action Guidance Center several times to volunteer in Wuhan to take medical workers from Guangdong to Wuhan.
但该中心出于志愿者安全考虑，一直没有同意他去，也就未曾帮他沟通去武汉的手续。
But the center for the safety of volunteers, has not agreed to him to go, so did not help him to communicate with Wuhan procedures.
于是，张凯联系了武汉当地的朋友，居然拿到通行证，开着车奔过去了。
As a result, Zhang Kai contacted Wuhan local friends, actually got a pass, driving past.
但他的队友就没他幸运，开到武汉，手续不齐全进不去，又折回了广东。
But his teammates are not as lucky as him, driving to Wuhan, the formalities are not complete, and back to Guangdong.
现在，张凯和当地的车友一起，专门为医院运送物资。
Now Zhang Kai, along with his local fellow drivers, is bringing supplies to the hospital.
空闲的时候，会接送有需要的武汉市民。
When free, will pick up the need of Wuhan city residents.
张凯在武汉也有不少“同行”。
Zhang Kai also has many "peers" in Wuhan.
武汉空旷的街上，仍能见到各种私家车驶过，形成了这场战疫中的民间志愿者车队。
Wuhan empty streets, can still see a variety of private cars, the formation of the epidemic in the civilian volunteer convoy.
这些车队如同武汉的“毛细血管”，把物资输送到需要的地方，有时是防护服、护目镜，有时是呼吸机、氧气罐，有时是蔬菜、牛奶。
These convoys, like Wuhan's "capillaries," carry supplies to where they are needed, sometimes protective clothing, goggles, sometimes a respirator, oxygen tanks, and sometimes vegetables and milk.
他们之间，也都依靠一个又一个微信群连接。
They, too, depend on one microphone after another to connect.
而远在980公里之外的广州，陈言也一直在“守群”，一条条记下需要，再一个个的反馈，无论深夜还是白天。
As far away as 980 kilometers away in Guangzhou, Chen has been "guarding the crowds," jot down needs, and then one feedback, whether in the middle of the night or during the day.
同一时刻，广东、湖北两地的各种志愿者群，又发布新的任务，也会有新的志愿者来“抢单”。
At the same time, various volunteer groups in Guangdong and Hubei will release new tasks and will have new volunteers to "snatch tickets."
而中山大学肿瘤防治中心医生王娟，此时正守ICU忙碌着。
But Zhongshan University oncology center doctor Wang Juan, at this time is keeping ICU busy.
同样忙碌着的，还有无数在交通站点、社区卡口、工厂车间……的人们。
Also busy, there are countless people in traffic stations, community jams, factory workshops...
仅志愿者这一项，在广东，截至2月21日，因参与疫情防控志愿服务，在“”i志愿“”系统留下服务时长记录的有61203人，报名的94042人， “还有很多项目没来得及在系统发布，直接就干了。
In Guangdong Province alone, as of February 21, 6,1203 people and 94,042 people had signed up for the volunteer service because of their involvement in the prevention and control of the epidemic.
”每个人用自己的方式在守护。
"Everyone was watching in his own way.
为武汉，也为自己。
Wuhan, but also for themselves.
2020年2月21日晚上10:00采写/杨舒 李艾霖本文转载自广东志愿者               点击购买最新一期《南风窗》。
February 21, 2020 at 10: 00 pm / Yang Shu Li Lin This article reproduces from Guangdong volunteers click to buy the latest issue of South Window.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
凌晨四点，这群人在守候什么。
At four in the morning, the group was waiting for something.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "南风窗";。
Var nickname = & quot; South Window & quot;;
var msg_title = "凌晨四点，这群人在守候什么";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; At 4 a.m. the group was waiting for & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "每个人用自己的方式在守护\x0a为武汉，也为自己";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; in his own way.
var title ="南风窗";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
