武汉王奶奶的最后一个春节。
The last Spring Festival of wuhan wang grandma.
何承波。
He Chengbo.
南风窗                      。
South Window.
南风窗。
South Window.
冷静的力量。
The power of coolness.
2月18日清晨，王红心里一阵惶然，早早地醒了。
Early in the morning of February 18, Wang Hong felt a pang and woke up early.
6点20分左右，关于她姑姑王兵的消息从家族群里传来：医院打来电话，人还在抢救，但按压已经没有反应了。
About 6: 20, news of her aunt Wang Bing came from the family group: the hospital called, people are still rescue, but the pressure has no response.
过了7点，没有电话来。
After seven o'clock, there was no call.
是不是抢救过来了呢？王红默念着，老天保佑，老天保佑。
Is the rescue come? Wang Hong meditation, God bless, God bless.
7点50分，终于有了结果：姑姑去世了，已经快速火化，疫情结束后，才能接她的骨灰回来。
At 7: 50, the result: the aunt died, was quickly cremated, after the outbreak of the disease, can not pick up her ashes back.
王兵的儿媳在群里说：“天塌了。
The king's daughter-in-law said in the crowd, "The sky is falling.
”此时盯着手机屏幕的王红，一下子绷不住了，抱着儿子，嚎啕大哭起来。
"At this point staring at the screen of the mobile phone Wang Hong, suddenly stretched out, hugging his son, wailing loudly.
王红和姑姑王兵，在武汉市武电仪小区门口的诊所里共事了15年，这间小诊所依托小区而成立，20年里，它是这个小区最温馨的纽带，人们赞叹王医生医术高、医德好，是小区的守护神。
Wang Hong and his aunt Wang Bing worked together for 15 years in a clinic in front of Wuhan's Wu Yi district, a small clinic founded on a small community, which for 20 years has been the warmest ties in the district. People admire Wang for his skill and medical ethics and his role as patron saint of the community.
人们赞叹王兵医生（左）医术高、医德好，是小区的守护神武汉封城后，她照常在诊所里为附近居民们看诊，为激增的病人忙到深夜。
People admire doctor wang bing (left) high skill, good medical ethics, is the guardian of the district after the closure of Wuhan, her usual clinic for nearby residents, busy late into the night for the surge of patients.
除夕这天，她还在给病人打针，大年初三，她还开门为患者们拿药。
On New Year's Eve, she was still giving injections to patients. She also opened the door to get medicine for the patients.
王兵还在这个自治社区里担任了15年的业委会主任。
Wang Bing also served as director of the industry committee in the autonomous community for 15 years.
大年三十的深夜，她安排小区子女们四处采购防护和消毒物资，努力帮助居民们挺过这次疫情，但在1月27日，她和自己的家人却相继倒下了，成为整个小区400多户中唯一的感染家庭。
Late at night, she arranged for her children to shop around for protective and disinfectant supplies to help residents survive the outbreak, but on January 27, she and her family collapsed, becoming the only families in the more than 400 homes in the neighborhood.
王兵的噩耗传来，整个社区为之一恸，“靠山垮了”。
Wang Bing's bad news, the whole community for one of the grief, "rely on the mountain collapsed."
“王奶奶，救命”1月初，网上流传疑似SARS病毒在武汉出现，武电仪小区门口的王兵西医内科诊所的口罩就脱销了，随后王兵去进了200个。
"Grandma Wang, help" in early January, online circulation suspected SARS virus in Wuhan, Wu Yi community door Wang Bing Western Medical Clinic masks sold out, and then Wang Bing into 200.
不过很快官方宣布未发现人传人，这批口罩就一直留着。
But officials soon announced that no human-to-human transmission had been found, and the masks were kept.
直到十多天后，人们觉察到了疫情的危险，口罩又很快卖完。
The danger of the outbreak was felt more than a decade later, and the masks were quickly sold out.
王兵跑到各大药店去采购，此时，口罩已经涨价到一块钱一个，买回来，她以原价卖出。
Wang Bing went to major pharmacies to go shopping, this time, the price of masks has risen to a dollar a, buy back, she sold at the original price.
而她和家人自用的口罩，却是儿媳在网上以高价买回的。
She and her family use their own masks, but daughter-in-law on the Internet to buy back at a high price.
1月以来，发热病人激增。
Fever patients have surged since January.
一般情况下，王兵会叫病人先去医院做个检查，如果是流感，就建议他们在医院治疗。
Normally, Wang Bing would ask patients to go to the hospital for a check-up. If it is flu, they are advised to be treated in hospital.
流感需要用到奥司他韦，但她的诊所没有这种药。
The flu needs oseltamivir, but her clinic does not have it.
如果是普通感冒，她告诉患者，可以回诊所打针、拿药。
If it's a common cold, she tells patients to go back to the clinic for injections and medication.
在王兵诊所里当行政的王红说，当时大家以为只是流感，并没有太在意。
Wang Hong, an administrator at the Wang Bing Clinic, said people thought it was the flu and didn't care much.
而到了1月23日，武汉封城，疫情的乌云终于压在了每一个人的心头。
On January 23, Wuhan closed the city, the clouds of the epidemic finally weighed on everyone's mind.
发热病人太多了，很多患者在医院里排队几天，也得不到诊治，纷纷跑回诊所，求王医生救命。
Fever patients are too many, many patients in the hospital line up for a few days, also no treatment, rushed back to the clinic, Dr. Wang for help.
王兵常常从早上忙到深夜。
Wang Bing is often busy from morning till late at night.
诊所里原本只有王兵一个医生，此外除了做行政的王红，还有王红的姐姐，一位从军队转业的护士。
The clinic used to have only Wang Bing a doctor, in addition to the administrative Wang Hong, there is Wang Hong's sister, a nurse from the army.
因诊所人手紧缺，姐姐去年年初来帮忙，后来她说，在这里有一种当义工的感觉。
Her sister came to help early last year because of a shortage of staff at the clinic, and later said there was a sense of volunteering.
春节前，王红和姐姐各自过年去了，诊所只剩下王兵一人。
Before the Spring Festival, Wang Hong and her sister respectively went to the New Year, the clinic only left Wang Bing a person.
让王红和姐姐没有想到的是，这一别，竟成永诀。
Let Wang Hong and sister did not think of, this is the separation, turned into a permanent formula.
大年三十这天，王兵还在帮人打针，患者自己原本也不忍心了，说去医院试一下能不能就诊。
On New Year's Day, Wang Bing is still in the hands of injection, the patients themselves have not the heart, said to go to the hospital to try can see a doctor.
王兵说，算了，也不容易，你们早点过来，我给你们打了，免得白跑。
Wang Bing said, Never mind, it is not easy, you came early, I hit you, so as not to run for nothing.
打完针，她回去吃年夜饭。
After the injection, she went back to dinner.
此时，大部分诊所都已经关门了。
By this time, most of the clinics were closed.
另一边，出于医生的敏感，加上业委会主任的职责，王兵比较早就响应了疫情防控。
On the other hand, due to the sensitivity of doctors, coupled with the responsibilities of the director of the industry committee, Wang Bing relatively early responded to the epidemic prevention and control.
刚封城时，她去上班前，先去了一趟物业，交代购买红外线额温枪，进出前需要测量体温，进出要消毒。
Just sealed city, she went to work, first to a property, to buy infrared frontal gun, in and out of the need to take temperature, in and out to disinfect.
晚上，她组织业委会加班开会，商讨防控方案。
In the evening, she organizes industry committee overtime meeting, discusses the control plan.
比附近大多数小区更早，王兵就动员大家清理楼道，清洗垃圾桶，跟业主们宣传，不要随便下楼。
Earlier than most of the neighborhood, Wang Bing mobilized everyone to clean up the corridor, wash garbage cans, and owners to promote, do not go downstairs.
大年三十，她到处联系，总算在蔡甸找到了最后几箱84消毒液，商家已经不发货了，王兵叫儿子驱车40多公里运了回来。
In her late thirties, she finally found the last boxes of 84 disinfectant in Cai dian. The merchant did not deliver the product. Wang Bing told his son to drive back more than 40 kilometers.
顾不上吃年夜饭，晚上10点，他们又去了已经放假的东西湖农机市场，联系到主管经理，购来2台电动农用箱式喷雾器，连同仅有的数箱口罩，连夜将各项防疫物资送到了物业办公室。
Instead of New Year's Eve dinners, at 10 p.m., they went to the East-West Lake farm machinery market, which was already on holiday, contacted the manager in charge, purchased two electric agricultural box sprayers and, together with a few boxes of masks, delivered all the vaccines overnight to the property offices.
他们先后两次，挨个对楼道、防盗门进行消毒，基本上把整个小区13栋楼都覆盖了。
They have two times, one by one on the corridor, burglar-proof door disinfection, basically the entire community of 13 buildings covered.
大年初一，王兵还是闲不住，全家人劝她要保重身体，她嘴上答应，但随后又一个人去了诊所。
New Year's Day, Wang Bing is still busy, the family advised her to take care of her body, she said yes, but then a person went to the clinic.
她不忍心，这么多患者太可怜了，有年轻的患者哀求“王奶奶，救命”，家人说，遇到这样的求救，她眼里满是泪水。
She couldn't bear the sight of so many sufferers crying out for "Grandma Wang, help," her family said, her eyes filling with tears.
到了初二初三，只要居民一个电话，即便是简单的询问和拿药，她也马上跑去开门。
To the second day of junior high school, as long as the residents of a telephone, even simple inquiries and drugs, she immediately ran to open the door.
此时，她没有更多的防护物资，只戴了个一次性医用口罩。
At this point, she did not have more protective equipment, only wearing a disposable medical mask.
直到大年初三，1月27日，实在拗不过家人的劝说，远在新加坡的女儿也要求视频在线督促，她不得不停诊。
Until the New Year's Day, January 27, really difficult to persuade her family, as far away as Singapore's daughter also requested video online supervision, she had to stop.
王兵1947年生人，72岁了，依然很精神，卷曲的短发，脸有些胖，一双丹凤眼，常常保持着微笑，每个人过路，她都会打声招呼。
Wang Bing was born in 1947, 72 years old, still very energetic, curly short hair, a little fat face, a pair of red phoenix eyes, often maintain a smile, everyone passing by, she would say hello.
她双腿患有静脉曲张，常常是肿着的，这是当医生一辈子留下来的职业病。
Her legs are varicose and often swollen, which is a lifelong occupational disease left by her as a doctor.
在居民熊清群的印象中，她总是在诊所里“旋啊，旋啊”（转来转去），不肯坐下来。
In the resident Xiong Qing group's impression, she always "spin ah, spin ah" in the clinic (around), refused to sit down.
这位老奶奶保持着年轻时那股女强人的坚毅、热情和雷厉风行。
The old woman retained the fortitude, enthusiasm, and fervour of a strong woman when she was young.
停诊已经来不及自我保护，就在大年初三当天，她出现了感冒、乏力等症状。
Stop diagnosis has no time to protect herself, just on the third day of the New Year, she appeared cold, fatigue and other symptoms.
侄女王红很肯定，她就是在诊所里感染的。
My niece Wang Hong is sure that she was infected in the clinic.
因为除了吃饭，除了那几次去买口罩，她几乎不上街，都在诊所里。
Because except for eating, except for a few trips to buy a mask, she hardly went out on the street and was in the clinic.
为了不让家人担心，她每天还跟新加坡的女儿视频报平安。
She also uses a daily video with her daughter in Singapore to keep her family from getting worried.
但到了1月31日，她开始意识到这是病毒感染了。
But on Jan. 31, she began to realize it was a viral infection.
医院已经人满为患，一床难求，许多人在寒风中排着长队。
Hospitals are already overcrowded, with many people lining up in long lines in the cold.
家人称，王兵不想去争夺重症患者的资源，索性在家自行输液。
Family said, Wang Bing does not want to compete for the resources of patients in serious condition, simply infusion at home.
此时，她已经无法跟女儿视频了。
By this time, she could no longer video with her daughter.
解忧诊所1960年，王兵13岁，她从湖南湘潭的乡下，赶去武汉读书，投奔了她的哥哥——王红的父亲。
Xie Xie Clinic in 1960, Wang Bing 13 years old, from Hunan Xiangtan countryside, rushed to Wuhan to study, to her brother - Wang Hong's father.
王红对这位姑姑的印象是，她的字写得很大，像男人的字一样，也如她的名字。
Wang Hong's impression of the aunt was that her handwriting was large, like that of a man, just like hers.
心直口快的姑姑也有细腻的一面。
An open-minded aunt also has a delicate side.
王红说，王兵很会勾毛衣，她给王红父亲织了不少好看的毛衣，就像她多年后的那令人叫绝的缝针技术一样，她是个粗中带细的人，不然也当不了医生。
Wang Hong said Wang Bing knew how to hook sweaters. She knitted a lot of nice sweaters for Wang Hong's father, just like her amazing sewing skill many years later.
后来，王兵考取了湖北医学院附属护士学校，她跟家里人炫耀过，她把护校图书馆的书，全读了一遍。
Later, Wang Bing admitted to Hubei Medical School attached to the nursing school, she showed off to her family, she took the nursing library books, read them all.
毕业后，王兵去孝感一家医院当了护士，然后是护士长。
After graduation, Wang Bing went to a hospital to be a nurse, then a head nurse.
她的丈夫在武汉电力学院任职，是一名教师，分居多年后，为了团聚也为了孩子的成长，她不得不牺牲了个人事业，回到了武汉。
Her husband worked as a teacher at Wuhan Electric Power Institute. After years of separation, she had to sacrifice her career to return to Wuhan for the sake of reunion and the growth of her children.
随后又自学考得医师资格证，在武汉电力仪表厂医务室当了多年的医生。
Then he studied for a doctor's qualification certificate and worked as a doctor in the medical room of Wuhan electric dashboard factory for many years.
电仪厂的熊清群对这位同事印象极深刻：“她很有水平，医德高，内科外科都会，厂里很多病人的疑难杂症，都被她解决了。
Xiong Qingqun of the electronics factory was very impressed with his colleague: "She is very good, high medical ethics, medical surgery capital, many patients in the factory, she solved the intractable diseases.
”后来，武汉电力仪表厂改制，医务室的医生们陆续走了，只剩了一个护士。
The Wuhan electric dashboard was later revamped, and doctors left the infirmary with only one nurse left.
此时王兵也退了休，经营着一间茶馆，生意蒸蒸日上。
At this time Wang Bing also retired, running a teahouse, business is booming.
仪表厂曾经的职工们，依然生活在一起，保持着熟络的邻里关系，他们说，“王医生，你不如开个诊所吧，也方便大家。
The former dashboard workers, who still live together and keep in close touch with each other, say, "Dr. Wang, you might as well open a clinic for the convenience of everyone.
”2003年，王医生就这样回来了，她在武电仪小区门口开了个诊所——洪山王兵西医内科诊所。
"In 2003, Dr. Wang returned home with a clinic in front of the Wulitai district - the Hongshan Wang Bing Western Medical Clinic.
2006年，王红下岗以后，姑姑王兵对她说，“你干脆跟我干吧。
In 2006, after Wang Hong was laid off, her aunt Wang Bing said to her, "You just do it with me.
”于是她成了诊所里的行政人员，一直到今天。
"So she became the administrator of the clinic until today.
王兵医生（中）与诊所工作人员的合影王红17岁这年，她的爸爸走了。
Doctor Wang Bing (middle) and the clinic staff photo Wang Hong 17 years old this year, her father left.
“我和姐姐受了姑姑很多恩惠，困难的时候，姑姑常送钱、送物，她很舍得。
"My sister and I have enjoyed a great deal of favour from my aunt, who often gives money and things when we are in trouble.
”有一段时间，王红家里小孩没人照顾，姑姑就每天来给小孩洗澡，再去上班，一天没有落下。
For a time, the children of the Wanghong family were left unattended. She came to bathe the children every day and went back to work.
早些年，姑姑受惠于她家，现在，姑姑成了侄女的“命中贵人”，她们“情同母女”。
In earlier years, aunt benefit from her home, now, aunt became niece "hit the nobleman," they "love mother and daughter."
王红心中，姑姑的缝针技术很好，医术也高。
In Wang Hong's heart, aunt stitch technique is very good, medical skill is also high.
以前武汉大学菜场有一个女人，切肉时把手切了一刀，姑姑给她缝了27针。
Once upon a time there was a woman in Wuhan University vegetable farm who cut her hand while cutting meat. Her aunt gave her 27 stitches.
几个月后，患者回来，伸出手一看，不见印子。
A few months later, the patient came back, reached out his hand, and saw no sign.
有一位病人，因为心肌梗塞发作来到诊所，简单抢救后好了一些，病人要回去，但姑姑不让他走。
One patient, who came to the clinic because of a myocardial infarction, recovered after a brief rescue and the patient wanted to go back, but the aunt refused to let him go.
早过了下班时间的姑姑仍守在那里，坚持让他叫侄女把医保卡带来，赶紧送去大医院。
Her aunt, who was out of work, stayed there, insisting that he ask his niece to bring the card to the big hospital.
那里的医生说，送来太及时了，晚一点就可能没救。
The doctor there said it was too late, and it might not have been saved later.
武电仪小区这间小小的诊所为居民保留着过去时光的温情。
This small clinic in the WUE district preserves the warmth of the past for residents.
一位武电仪小区居民说：“诊所的药可以拆开，一颗颗零卖，就跟我们小时候在医务室看病一样。
"The medicine in the clinic can be broken down and sold piecemeal, just as we used to see a doctor in the infirmary when we were young," said a villager.
”一位冬天常去打针的女孩记得，每次“王奶奶”都会给她一个暖手袋。
A girl who used to go for an injection in winter remembered that every time "Grandma Wang" gave her a warm handbag.
一位曾经住附近的打工者生病了，转了两趟车，从沌口赶来，找王兵看病。
A migrant worker who used to live nearby fell ill and made two trips to see Wang Bing from the turbid mouth.
不仅因为便宜，也因为亲切和信任。
Not only because of cheap, but also because of kindness and trust.
去年年底，一名大学生手指上扎了一根签子，深陷到肉里了，他走了20分钟，找到了这间诊所。
At the end of last year, a college student got a stick in his finger and got stuck in the meat. He walked for 20 minutes and found the clinic.
王兵用针头和镊子，麻利地挑了出来。
Wang Bing with needles and tweezers, nimbly selected out.
最后只收了工具费，5元钱。
Finally, only the tool fee, 5 yuan.
而同样的伤口，在旁边的二甲医院里，有人花了300元。
The same wound, in the next A hospital, someone spent 300 yuan.
业委会成员齐小明和居民们笑她：“你不亏钱吗？”她说，“赚多少无所谓，只要大家好了，我高兴，就当交个朋友。
Qi Xiaoming, a member of the industry committee, and the residents laughed at her: "You don't lose money?" She said, "it doesn't matter how much you earn, as long as we are good, I am happy to make a friend.
”王兵还跟齐小明说过，“大家来我这里看病，也是看得起我。
"Wang Bing also told Qi Xiaoming," People come to me to see the doctor, but also look up to me.
”这让齐小明觉得，她是个真诚的医生，境界很高。
This made Qi Xiaoming feel that she was a sincere doctor with a high standard of living.
遇到经济条件差的，王兵就少收钱，或者免费。
When faced with poor economic conditions, Wang Bing received less money, or free of charge.
小区里谁家病人经济困难，她号召大家捐款，而她往往是捐得最多的。
The community whose patients are in financial trouble, she called on everyone to donate, and she is often the most donated.
谁家有人去世了，她会送钱。
If anyone dies, she will send the money.
2005年，王兵当选武电仪小区的业委会主任，这是一个业主自治的老旧小区，事务繁多，琐碎，也很复杂，但她从不嫌烦。
In 2005, Wang Bing was elected the director of the WUE community, an old homeowner's self-governing neighborhood with many affairs, trivialities and complexities, but she never got bored.
齐小明记得，王兵跟她说过，有时心里想着社区的事务，半夜就醒来了。
Qi Xiaoming remembers that Wang Bing told her that he sometimes wakes up in the middle of the night thinking about the affairs of the community.
早些年，王兵带领小区安装天然气管道，当时小区业主们争议很大，有人同意，有人不同意，也有人嫌贵，王兵一家一户地谈，总算把管道安上了。
Earlier in the year, Wang Bing led the community to install natural gas pipelines, then small district owners are very controversial, some agree, some do not agree, also too expensive, Wang Bing, one after another of the talks, finally installed the pipe.
在齐小明的印象中，王兵热心参加社区里大大小小的所有活动，她腿脚不好，但还是要去跳舞。
In Qi Xiaoming's impression, Wang Bing enthusiastically participated in all the activities in the community large and small, she is not good legs, but still going to dance.
“我跳得不好不要紧，我站后面，但我一定要参加，我们的精神要体现出来。
"It doesn't matter if I don't jump well, I'll stand behind you, but I'll be there, and our spirit will show.
”齐小明说，出现感染症状时，王兵还给她打了电话，商量着再挂个横幅出去，提高大家的警惕。
Qi Xiaoming said Wang called her when she developed symptoms of the infection and asked to hang another banner to alert everyone.
但王兵此时对自己接下来的身体状况一无所知。
But Wang Bing now knows nothing about his future health.
噩 耗病来如山倒，情况的紧急程度，超出了所有人的预料。
The condition of Og, a mountain of disease, is more urgent than anyone expected.
眼看王兵越来越虚弱，家人不分日夜地照顾，打遍了各种电话，王红还向民营医疗协会求救，仍然没有医院收治。
As Wang Bing grew weaker and weaker, his family members took care of him day and night, making all kinds of phone calls. Wang Hong also asked the private medical association for help.
2月1日早上，家人驾车送往武汉672医院，“但他们不收重症，只收轻症”。
February 1 morning, the family drive to Wuhan 672 hospital, "but they do not take serious, only mild illness."
之后，儿子健儿只好开车转往陆军总医院。
After that, the son had to drive to the Army General Hospital.
此时已无须挂号，院方直接把几近休克的王兵送进了抢救室，医院下达了病危通知书，医生直接给她挂上了吸氧装置。
No longer required to register, the hospital directly into the shock Wang Bing into the rescue room, the hospital issued a notice of critical illness, the doctor directly hung her up with oxygen devices.
此时，王兵双肺已经变白，血氧饱和度低至60%，命悬一线。
At this point, Wang Bing lung has become white, blood oxygen saturation as low as 60%, hanging close.
但医生没办法让她住院，理由很简单，没有核酸确诊，没有床位。
But the doctor couldn't get her into the hospital for the simple reason that there was no nucleic acid diagnosis and no beds.
医生还说，如果找不到医院，估计挺不过今晚了。
Doctors also say they won't make it through the night if they don't find a hospital.
家人感觉浑身冰凉：“天天救人的医生，病重却无法入院。
The family felt cold. "Doctors who save lives every day are too ill to be hospitalized.
”社区紧急上报街道、区里，但一套流程走下来，在生死关头，无疑是漫长的。
The community reported the emergency to the streets and districts, but a set of procedures came down, in life and death, is undoubtedly long.
家人们把求救信息发布到网上，卓尔公益基金会找到他们，称有一个核酸名额送给他们，去汉口医院做。
Families posted their distress messages online, and the Zoar Pro Foundation found them and said they had a nucleic acid quota for them to do at Hankou Hospital.
但此时王兵已经没有体力和时间去应付核酸检测了。
But by this time Wang Bing already did not have the strength and time to deal with nucleic acid test.
最后，家人们在蔡甸区人民医院找到了一张病床，2月2日凌晨1点，王兵住了院，用上了呼吸机。
Finally, the family found a bed at the People's Hospital in Cai Den District. At 1 a.m. on February 2, Wang Bing stayed in the hospital and used a ventilator.
王兵在救护车上早上8点多，医生会诊，通知家属要有思想准备。
Wang Bing in the ambulance at more than 8 a.m., the doctor will consult with the family to inform them to be prepared.
医生先按3天的治疗方案来抢救。
The doctor first followed a three-day treatment regimen.
王兵有求生欲，挺过了这3天，但血氧饱和度一直没有太大的变化。
Wang Bing has the desire to survive, but the blood oxygen saturation has not changed much.
无奈之下，医生只好把王兵的气管切开，建立人工呼吸道，挂上有创呼吸机后，王兵度过了危险期。
But, the doctor had to cut Wang Bing's trachea open, establish artificial respirator, hang a invasive breathing machine, Wang Bing passed the critical period.
次日，王兵醒了，护士用她的手机，拍了个视频发回来，视频里，是她戴着呼吸机，用筷子撬着饭菜吃。
The next day, Wang Bing woke up. The nurse used her cell phone to send back a video of her eating with a breathing machine and chopsticks.
一家人提到嗓子眼的心，终于回落了一点点。
The family's heart, raised to its throat, dropped a little.
这也是王红最后一次看到姑姑的容颜。
This is also the last time Wang Hong saw her aunt's face.
当天，家人买了18瓶免疫球蛋白，加钱托卖药的人送了过去。
On the same day, the family bought 18 bottles of immunoglobulins, which were delivered to them by people who had paid for them.
医院里值班的是外省来支援的医生，当天就给她挂了6瓶。
On duty in the hospital were doctors from the provinces, who hanged her six bottles the same day.
后来，王红给姑姑打了个电话，王兵对这位情同亲生女儿的侄女说：“我肚子饿，想吃东西。
Later, Wang Hong called her aunt and Wang Bing said to her niece, "I'm hungry and I want to eat.
”王红说，“姑，我相信你一定能好起来，你一定要坚强，要挺住。
"said Wang Hong." I'm sure you'll get well, aunt, you must be strong and stand fast.
”王兵用微弱的声音回答：“嗯嗯……”她的声音几乎听不见了。
"Wang Bing replied in a weak voice:" Hmm... "Her voice was barely audible.
此时，没人敢告诉王兵，她的儿子、媳妇在送她入院后，纷纷隔离到了酒店，随后查出肺部感染，儿子健儿确诊重症入院，儿媳确诊轻症，转至方舱医院。
At this time, no one dared to tell Wang Bing, her son, daughter-in-law after sending her to the hospital, have been isolated to the hotel, then found the lung infection, son Jianren confirmed the serious hospital, the daughter-in-law confirmed a mild case, referred to the cabin hospital.
与此同时，在王兵家过年的亲家母，也确诊住院。
At the same time, Wang Bing in the New Year's mother-in-law, also confirmed hospitalization.
家里只剩下王兵的丈夫和小孙子。
All that remained of the family were Wang Bing's husband and little grandson.
王兵这边，两天后原本稳住的形势，再次急转直下，她转入了ICU，之后十几天里，王红已经无法得知姑姑详细的身体状况了。
Wang Bing this side, two days later stable situation, once again turned down sharply, she transferred to the ICU, a few days later, Wang Hong has not been able to know her aunt's detailed physical condition.
直到2月17日，家人告诉她，姑姑肾功能衰竭了，已经两天排不了尿，需要做血滤。
Until 17 February, she was told by her family that her aunt's kidney had failed and that she had been unable to urinate for two days and needed a blood filter.
求生意志强烈的王兵，依然在跟病毒艰苦缠斗。
Wang Bing, who has a strong will to survive, is still struggling with the virus.
2月18日清晨，像预知到有事发生一样，王红6点就醒了。
Early in the morning of February 18, Wang Hong woke up at 6 o'clock as if he had foreseen something would happen.
此时在医院里，王兵正在紧急抢救中。
At this time in the hospital, Wang Bing is in emergency rescue.
于是有了开头的一幕。
So there was the first scene.
王兵走了，这个噩耗现在还得瞒着王兵的丈夫，这天，王兵的女儿给老爷子打了个预防针，告诉他，老妈要是不行了，他要做个心理准备。
One day, Wang Bing's daughter gave the old man a shot in the arm and told him that if his mother failed, he would prepare himself mentally.
老爷子这段时间在家里干着急，急于想知道妻子的境况。
The old man was in a hurry at home, anxious to know what had become of his wife.
夫妻俩恩爱一辈子，多年来，形成了“男主内，女主外”的关系，这位退休的工程师，常年为妻子烧火做饭，在她无暇回家时，就亲自送去诊所。
The couple have loved each other all their lives. Over the years, a relationship has been formed between a man and a woman. The retired engineer, who cooks for his wife all the year round, takes her to the clinic when she has no time to go home.
王红难以想象这个噩耗会给这位70多岁的老人带来怎样的打击。
Wang Hong could not imagine how the tragic news would have hit the 70-year-old man.
家里人商量的唯一策略是，寄希望于症状较轻的儿媳从方舱医院出院后，回到家里，陪在老爷子身边，再找机会告诉他。
The only strategy discussed by the family was to hope that the less symptomatic daughter-in-law would come home from the cabin hospital, stay with him and find another opportunity to tell him.
但2月17日这天，她刚做了核酸检测，结果还是阳性。
But February 17, she just had a nucleic acid test, the results are positive.
什么时候能出院，还是个未知数。
When he will be discharged from hospital is still unknown.
2月19日，王兵去世的第二天，小区居民们形成了共同的默契：全体瞒住老爷子，并等待他家人的归来。
February 19, the day after the death of Wang Bing, the residents of the community formed a common understanding: all the grandfather, and waiting for the return of his family.
作者 | 南风窗记者 何承波编辑| 李少威排版 | 阿丽菜图片 | 受访者提供南风窗新媒体出品点击购买最新一期《南风窗》点在看让理性的声音传得更遥远。
By Rita Lau, a South Window journalist, at least once a year. Rational voices are being heard farther afield as interviewees offer new media outlets for southwind windows.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉王奶奶的最后一个春节。
The last Spring Festival of wuhan wang grandma.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "南风窗";。
Var nickname = & quot; South Window & quot;;
var msg_title = "武汉王奶奶的最后一个春节";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "“靠山垮了”";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="南风窗";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
