这个头条，我们留给非肺炎患者。
This headline, we leave it to non-pneumonia patients.
肖瑶。
Xiao Yao.
南风窗                      。
South Window.
南风窗。
South Window.
冷静的力量。
The power of coolness.
新冠肺炎疫情的防控正在逐步进入平稳轨道。
The prevention and control of the new crown pneumonia is gradually entering a stable orbit.
全国31省市报告确诊病例在逐日减少，医院扩建、全民隔离，一部分患者也陆续出院。
Thirty-one provinces and municipalities across the country reported a daily decrease in confirmed cases, hospital expansion, general isolation, and a number of patients have been discharged.
这场前所未见的疫灾，让多少人体会了一次死里逃生。
This unprecedented epidemic, let the number of people experience a death escape.
但与此同时，还有另一部分人，在依然严峻的寒冬冰封里挣扎。
At the same time, however, there is another part of the population that is struggling with the still harsh winter ice.
许多非新冠肺炎的危重患者在疫情期间发病，面临就医困难的问题。
Many critically ill patients with non-Newly Coronary Pneumonia (NCP) are facing difficulties in obtaining medical treatment during the outbreak.
也许就在不久之前，他们突然遭受疾病的挟持，抱着积极的信念，坚持按部就班地与病魔对抗，可这次猝不及防的疫情大爆发，让他们坠入四下无援的暗穴。
Perhaps just a short time ago, they were suddenly held hostage by disease, with a positive faith, and insisted on fighting the disease in an orderly fashion, but this sudden outbreak of disease sent them crashing into a hole of helplessness.
随着疫情形势的逐渐好转，希望接下来他们的医疗救助问题能得到更多关注以及更妥善的解决。
As the situation gradually improved, it was hoped that their medical assistance would receive more attention and be better addressed in the future.
封城封路：“生路被堵死了”万妈妈肠子都悔青了，“要是11月就给女儿转院，现在或许还有一条生路。
Seal the road: "The way of life is blocked" ten thousand mothers are penitent, "if November to transfer her daughter to hospital, may now have a way of life.
”去年11月查出淋巴细胞白血病时，万茹意才20岁，正在武汉大学读大三，似锦的青春年华被一个带着病痛的寒冬阻断。
When lymphoblastic leukaemia was identified last November, Wan Ju was only 20 years old and was a junior at Wuhan University.
她是11月30号开始进行第一次细胞免疫法治疗的，三个月的期待从那时押下注，如果不出意外，89天之后就可以做骨髓移植手术了，把爸爸的新鲜细胞移植入女儿体内，20岁的万茹意就能得到第二次生的机会。
She started her first cytoimmunity treatment on Nov. 30, a three-month wait until 89 days later for a bone marrow transplant, giving 20-year-old Vanjoe a second chance if his father's fresh cell were transplanted into her daughter.
但是，出意外了。
But there was an accident.
1月23号除夕前夜，武汉大规模爆出疫情症状，从来没有听过的病毒在短短一个月内夺走了这座城许多人的生命。
On the eve of New Year's Eve on January 23, Wuhan experienced a massive outbreak of the virus, which killed many people in the city in just one month.
封城禁令下达，各医院陷入紧急状况，全民抗疫号角拉响。
The ban on the city, hospitals into a state of emergency, the national anti-epidemic horn ringing.
唯一能救命的医院告诉她们：移植舱关闭了。
The only life-saving hospital told them the transplant was closed.
疫情如寒潮一样疾速扩散，确诊人数日益飙升，从全省到全国，几乎所有医疗设施、资源都倾注在新冠肺炎病患的救治上，其他重症的病人，有的被迫地望着自己的治疗被中断，情况危急。
The epidemic is spreading like a cold wave, the number of people diagnosed is soaring, almost all medical facilities and resources, from the province to the country, are devoted to treating patients with pneumonia, while others, who are critically ill, are forced to watch their own treatment be interrupted and in critical condition.
大年初五，万茹意开始腿疼，从家中赶到医院，却被告知：最早初七才能做骨穿。
At the beginning of the year, Wan Joy began to hurt his legs, from home to the hospital, but was told: the earliest seven can do bone piercing.
初七做完后，万妈妈又被告知：因为疫情，医生都调到一线去了。
After the seventh day of junior high school, ten thousand mothers were told: because of the outbreak, the doctors were transferred to the front line.
一周后才能查出结果。
It will be a week before we find out.
而过往做骨穿化疗，最多三个工作日就能拿到。
In the past, bone-piercing chemotherapy was available for up to three working days.
特殊时期，除了急，只有等。
Special period, except for emergency, only wait.
等到2月14号情人节那天，万妈妈终于接到医院电话，猜测得没错：复发了。
By February 14 Valentine's Day, Wan mother finally received a telephone call from the hospital, guess is correct: relapse.
白血病复发的一个主要症状是发烧，一连十几天只能躺在床上，持续低热，万妈妈给女儿喂饭，仪式性的进食动作，吸收的食物微乎其微。
Leukemia recurrence is a major symptom of fever, lying in bed for 10 days, continued low heat, 10 million mothers to feed their daughter, ceremonial eating action, absorption of very little food.
图片来源于万妈妈微博账号@爽朗的微微笑527越来越瘦弱的四肢稍动仿佛有千钧重穿透骨髓。
Pictures from Wan Mum Weibo account @ Shuang Lang slightly smile 527 more and more emaciated limbs as if a thousand Jun re-piercing the bone marrow.
一天一针止痛剂是仅有的少数舒缓时刻，但针不能多打，会产生抗药性，除了必不得已的几个小时，万茹意大多数时刻都处于骨头裂开般的疼痛中。
A painkiller is the only few soothing moments of the day, but needles should not be given more often, creating resistance and leaving Vandruy in bone-splitting pain for most of the time, except when it has to be for a few hours.
万茹意身体里的癌细胞和外面世界的疫情一起疯长，目前她已经做完了三次化疗，再多做一次，疗效也会因为耐药性而大打折扣。
The cancer cells in her body had grown wild with the disease in the outside world, and she had already given three chemotherapy treatments, one more time, and the effect would be greatly reduced by drug resistance.
剩下的只有一条路：进移植仓，做移植手术。
There was only one way left: a transplant, a transplant.
协和医院无能为力，武汉其他医院也无望。
The Concorde hospital was helpless, as were the other Wuhan hospitals.
早在一个月前，万妈妈原本联系好了国内最好的血液医院——河北燕达陆道培医院。
As early as a month ago, ten thousand mother originally contacted the best blood hospital in the country - Hebei Yanda Lu Daupe Hospital.
当时河北明确告知她们：只要转来，我们就收。
At that time Hebei clearly told them: as long as the transfer, we will accept.
然而，在大年三十之前，出城通道正式封闭了，唯一能转院的机会也被堵死了。
However, before the Chinese New Year's Eve, out of the city formally closed, the only opportunity to transfer to the hospital was blocked.
从那时起，省外各医院几乎都不可能接收湖北病人了。
Since then, hospitals outside the province have had little chance of receiving patients from Hubei province.
万妈妈打给市长热线，被告知不可能出城，妈妈在微博上说，生路断了。
Wan mother called the mayor's hotline, was told that it is impossible to get out of town, mother said on Weibo, the way out.
她急得声泪俱下。
She burst into tears.
为了这次移植，她早早参加完了全部家属陪护课程，万爸爸也养好了身体准备移植骨髓，这么久以来全家人付出的准备、打牢的心理建设，都是为了等待这一天的到来。
For the transplant, she attended all the family support classes early, tens of thousands of fathers are ready to transplant bone marrow, the family has been prepared to pay for the long-term psychological construction, are waiting for the day.
只恨时机的错过。
Hate only the missed opportunity.
疫情爆发比移植计划来得快太多，她感到四周都是伸手不见五指的黑墙，想找个扶持或依靠，却也不知方向。
The outbreak came much sooner than the transplant, and she felt like she was surrounded by invisible walls, trying to find support or support, but she didn't know the way.
这一个月来，万妈妈每天最多睡着三个小时，女儿稍有细微响动她就立马警醒。
This month, 10,000 mothers sleep a maximum of three hours a day, daughter slightest noise she immediately wake up.
她对女儿的疼痛呻吟最敏感，那哀嚎是从她体内长出来的，把心肺脏腑绞在一块儿，再狠狠抽出来，病痛的血花四溅，遍地绝望。
She was most sensitive to her daughter's sobs, which grew out of her body, wrung the heart and lungs together, and pulled them out again, and the pain splashed everywhere in despair.
女儿向她提出“安乐死”三个字，这不是她第一次提出来了。
It was not the first time her daughter had suggested the word euthanasia to her.
11月得知病情时，她就“不想活了。
When she learned of her illness in November, she "did not want to live.
”不是惧怕化疗、呕吐、溃疡和掉头发，甚至不是惧怕死亡，而是那持续折磨肉身的剧痛撕心裂肺，把一个二十岁少女眼前的光全部抹杀，每一秒骨头要从身体里蹦出来的时候，万妈妈就从她疼得扭曲的面部读出那三个字。
Not the fear of chemotherapy, vomiting, ulcers, and hair loss, not even the fear of death, but the searing pain that kept tormenting the body, wiping all the light out of the eyes of a twenty-year-old girl, and reading the words from her aching face every second the bones would pop out of her body.
除了“安乐死”以外，万茹意还说“对不起”，“不想拖累爸妈了。
Besides euthanasia, Vanzi also said "sorry," "do not want to drag their parents down.
”几个月前开始治疗初期，茹意是很有信心的。
When treatment began a few months ago, Joy was confident.
她有着一头乌黑油亮的长发，长睫毛和大眼睛，吸取了万妈妈和爸爸两个人的优点。
She has long black hair, long eyelashes and big eyes, absorbing the advantages of both mother and father.
最美的地方在自信，她是大学里的辅导员助理，计划治好病，要出国留学，要去非洲做义工。
The most beautiful place in self-confidence, she is a college counselor assistant, planning to cure illness, to study abroad, to work as a volunteer in Africa.
“别去非洲，那儿病菌多。
"Don't go to Africa, there are so many germs.
”万妈妈当时说。
"said Wan's mother.
第三次做完化疗的时候，万茹意头发、眉毛都掉光了，那个年轻漂亮的女孩开始在镜子里看到深邃的恐惧：我还有明天吗？我还有明天吗？万妈妈问自己。
The third time he finished chemotherapy, all his hair and eyebrows were gone, and the beautiful young girl began to see in the mirror a deep fear: Do I have tomorrow? Do I have tomorrow? Wan mother asked herself.
此地无援，把希望寄托在省外的还有新生爸爸陈恒阳。
There is no help here, hope in the province outside the newborn father Chen Heng-yang.
他仅八个月大的女儿在去年12月被查出一种极为罕见的先天性心脏疾病，全国发病率不到0.5%，死亡率却高达80%。
His eight-month-old daughter was diagnosed with an extremely rare congenital heart disease in December, with a national prevalence of less than 0.5 per cent and a mortality rate of 80 per cent.
1月19日被迫撤离医院后，女儿的病情几经复发，陈恒阳一咬牙，决定从唯一的一条路“杀”出武汉，一家人前往北京阜外医院治疗。
After being forced to evacuate the hospital on January 19, his daughter suffered several relapse, Chen Hengyang bite teeth, decided to "kill" the only way out of Wuhan, the family went to Beijing Fu Hospital for treatment.
虽然阜外医院在电话里告诉他们：抵京后要隔离十四天才能入院。
Although the hospital in Fuwai told them by telephone: after arriving in Beijing to be quarantined for 14 days before admission.
但眼见武汉相继封城、封路，与其在原地这么等下去，他还是决定冒一次险。
But seeing Wuhan seal the city and seal the road, he decided to take a risk instead of waiting there.
最大的险阻仍是出城。
The biggest hurdle is still getting out of town.
纵然在辗转多次后得到了防疫指挥部开的特殊通行证，他同时也被告知唯一的要求：只能自己开车出城。
Although he was given a special permit from the anti-epidemic command after tossing and turning, he was told the only requirement: to drive out of the city by himself.
陈恒阳在微博上写，“开了16个小时，基本没有停过，每个服务区都有检查人员，不敢进去，一路上防疫部门检查站，轮流盘问，各种解释，自己都能哭起来。
Chen Heng-yang wrote on Weibo: "It lasted 16 hours, it didn't stop. There were inspectors in every service area, they didn't dare to go in.
”他们前脚刚离开武汉，第二天，武汉市就宣布了全市范围所有住宅小区封闭管理。
They had just left Wuhan, and the next day Wuhan City announced the closure of all residential districts throughout the city.
药物中断：“眼睁睁看着病情恶化”去年11月，张立平在武汉协和肿瘤中心治疗诊断为鼻咽癌。
Medication disruption: "Seeing things get worse" Zhang Liping was diagnosed with nasopharyngeal cancer at Wuhan Concorde Cancer Center last November.
医生给出他确切的治疗方案：三次诱导化疗，两次同步化疗和33次放疗。
The doctor gave his definite treatment plan: three times induction chemotherapy, two concurrent chemotherapy sessions and 33 radiotherapy sessions.
2020年春节前，他已经完成了三次诱导化疗，从1月21号开始放疗。
He has completed three induction chemotherapy treatments before the Spring Festival in 2020 and started radiotherapy on January 21.
但那时，疫情已经在湖北开始逐渐蔓延开了，医院涌入大量患者，由于放疗+化疗对人体的免疫系统会产生一定影响，医生决定暂时中止他的化疗方案。
By then, however, the epidemic had begun to spread in Hubei province, with hospitals flooding in and doctors decided to suspend his chemotherapy regimen because of the effects of radiation and chemotherapy on the body's immune system.
由于前期治疗效果一直不错，他想，慢点就慢点吧，药物控制。
Since the early treatment had been working well, he thought, slow down a little bit, drug control.
“撤离”的要求在2月12日那天来到。
The demand for an "evacuation" came on February 12.
当日，武汉协和肿瘤中心被征用为新冠肺炎定点医院，张立平和其他肿瘤患者被要求全部办理出院。
On the same day, Wuhan Concorde Tumor Center was requisitioned as the New Crown Pneumonia Dating Hospital, Zhang Liping and other cancer patients were required to complete discharge.
新冠肺炎患者蜂一样涌进医院，院方说，不能留他们继续治疗了，感染风险太大。
Crowded pneumonia patients rushed to the hospital like bees, the hospital said they could not be left to continue treatment, the risk of infection is too high.
13号，包括张立平在内的七八十个肿瘤患者一起出院了，肿瘤科只剩下二十多个重症病人。
No. 13, including Zhang Liping, 78 tumor patients were discharged together, oncology department left only about 20 serious patients.
张立平的鼻咽癌属于轻症，靠放疗为主，治愈率算比较高的，但“放疗是越到后面越痛苦”，放疗带来副作用，比如感受不到丝毫味觉，进食依靠意识，伴随着口干、喉痛。
Zhang Liping's nasopharyngeal cancer is a mild disease, relying mainly on radiotherapy, the cure rate is higher, but "radiation treatment is more painful later," the side effects of radiation therapy, such as not feeling the slightest taste, eating consciousness, accompanied by dry mouth, throat pain.
然而，中断放疗带来更严峻的心理负担。
However, the interruption of radiotherapy poses an even greater psychological burden.
肿瘤可能随时都在长大，医生给他开了口服化疗药，但据张立平所知，口服药的效果微乎其微。
The tumor may be growing up all the time, and the doctor prescribed him an oral chemotherapy, but Zhang knew that the effect of oral medication was negligible.
肿瘤患者大多手上会有一根导管针，针头有一张封闭的膜，每周必须更换一次，且同时要注射放栓塞药物、清理消毒。
Most tumour sufferers have a catheter needle on their hands, and needles have a closed membrane that must be replaced once a week, along with injection of embolization drugs and decontamination.
如果停止维护一次，就面临极大的感染风险。
If maintenance is stopped once, there is a high risk of infection.
张立平几乎给全市医院都打了电话，没有一家可以提供维护处理。
Zhang Liping has phoned almost all the city's hospitals, none of which can provide maintenance treatment.
同时，社区封闭，三天才能出去一次。
At the same time, the community was closed for three days.
李莲的妈妈也面临着相同困境。
Li Lin's mother faces the same dilemma.
年前，患鼻咽癌的妈妈已经在同济医院肿瘤科做完了三次放疗，从1月13日开始同步化疗，到2月7日为止，李莲的妈妈已经放疗15次了，全部治疗过程几乎完成了一半。
By February 7, Li's mother had been on radiotherapy for 15 times, and the entire treatment was almost half complete. She had undergone three radiotherapy sessions with the oncology department of Tongji Hospital.
7日，主治医生通知她们暂时不要再去医院了，等到疫情结束再继续治疗。
On July 7, the attending doctor advised them not to go to the hospital again, until the end of the epidemic before continuing treatment.
这一停，至少两个星期不能再做放疗，李莲担心妈妈的癌细胞加速生长甚至扩散到其他器官，她反复打放疗中心的电话，无人接听。
This stop, at least two weeks can no longer do radiotherapy, Li Lin worried that her mother's cancer cells accelerated growth and even spread to other organs, she repeatedly called the radiotherapy center, unanswered.
全城陷入抗疫戒备状态，她们的求助都只得到四个字回答：没有办法。
The whole city was on alert for the disease, and all their requests for help were answered in four words: No way.
武汉援助志愿者团队搜集的非肺炎患者求助信息很快他们知道，“数不清的癌症患者都在外面漂着”，他们不是唯一，可这种状况只会给人徒添更深重的危机感。
Wuhan Help Volunteers team collected information on non-pneumonia patients quickly learned that "countless cancer patients are floating outside", they are not the only ones, but this situation only adds to the sense of crisis.
刚检查出重疾的时候，几乎每个病人都会安慰自己：只要积极治疗，一切就都有可能。
When a serious illness is first examined, almost every patient consoles himself with the thought that with active treatment, anything is possible.
在好不容易蓄好精力准备对抗病魔后，终究没有料到这一天出现的可能性。
After all, the possibility of such a day had not been anticipated after all, after all, after some effort had been made to prepare for it.
李莲的妈妈开始发烧，朦胧中说着听不清的话。
Li Lin's mother began to have a fever, hazily said inaudible words.
李莲只是抓着她的手，泣不成声，“知道抗疫是现在全城的重中之重，但我们也急需救助。
Li Lin just grabbed her hand and sobbed. "We know fighting the epidemic is a top priority for the city, but we also need it urgently.
”防护物匮乏：不敢去，也不能去的医院2月18日，武汉市卫健委公布了《全市非新冠肺炎特殊患者医疗救治医院名单》，按照6个类型划定了对应的医疗机构，包括了武汉市中医院、武汉市第一医院等。
Hospitals Dare to Go or Not to Go The Wuhan Health Commission on February 18 published a list of hospitals for special patients with non-Newly crowned Pneumonia, delineating corresponding medical institutions according to six types, including Wuhan Chinese Hospital and Wuhan First Hospital.
然而，人多、院少，指定医院的大多数都只接收重症和急症。
However, the population is large and the number of hospitals is small, with most designated hospitals receiving only severe and acute cases.
加上市内交通管制强度有增无减，封路、封小区的情况仍然严峻，横亘在许多居住偏远的患者和医院之间的路程，仍然布满荆棘险阻。
Combined with the increasing intensity of traffic control in the city, road closures and small settlements remain severe, and the distance between many remote patients and hospitals is still fraught with thorny obstacles.
武昌区中北路的一处公交停车场上，停运的公交车甘女士的乳腺癌在五年前确诊出来就是中晚期了，这些年做手术陆续摘除了乳腺和甲状腺，却一直要依靠放疗和化疗、后期调配药物进行靶向治疗。
In a bus park on Zhongbei Road in Wuchang District, Ms. Gan's breast cancer was diagnosed in the middle and late stages five years ago. Surgeons and thyroid glands have been removed in recent years, but have relied on radiotherapy, chemotherapy and late-stage drug targeting.
直到今年1月20日，病情突然恶化，她在当地的黄冈某医院检查出癌细胞转移，病情复发，恶化了。
She was diagnosed with metastatic cancer at a local hospital in Huanggang. She relapsed and got worse.
现在的湖北黄冈已经彻底封城了，大年三十以后，甘女士所在的社区医院明确告知她和家人：只接收新冠肺炎患者。
Now that Huanggang, Huanggang, Hubei Province, has been completely closed, Ms. Kan's community hospital has clearly informed her and her family that only patients with New Crown Pneumonia will be admitted.
所有医疗设施都集中精力功这场抗疫战，甘女士的放疗计划，被毫无防备地搁浅了。
All medical facilities were focused on the battle against the epidemic, and Ms. Kane's radiotherapy plan ran aground unguarded.
20号以后，儿子余深把甘女士带回家了，直到2月15号早上，才收到医院通知，总指挥部的医疗调配终于空出来，非肺炎患者可以进入中医院和区人民医院治疗。
After the 20th, my son took Ms. Kan home with him until the morning of February 15, when he was informed by the hospital that the medical deployment of the General Command had finally been released and that patients with non-pneumonia could be admitted to the Chinese Hospital and District People's Hospital for treatment.
但是，“不能放疗和化疗。
But no radiotherapy or chemotherapy.
”他们想无论如何先带甘女士去医院观察，然而，除了小区封闭以外，一个更致命的拦路虎摆在一家人面前：他们所有的防护物品，只剩下10个医用外科口罩了。
They wanted to take Ms. Kane to the hospital anyway, but in addition to the closure of the compound, a more deadly Land Rover stood in front of the family: all they had was 10 medical surgical masks.
送甘女士出家门，余深和父亲至少要有一个人陪着，三个人只有10只一次性口罩，无论如何是不够用的。
Send Ms. Kane out of the house, Yu Sheng and his father to accompany at least one person, three people only 10 disposable masks, in any case is not enough.
寄希望于社区帮忙筹集口罩，却也迟迟等不来货。
Hope in the community to help raise masks, but also late arrival of goods.
甘女士目前躺在家中床上等，她的腰部力量几乎已完全殆尽，坐不住，站不起，左盆骨、右大腿疼痛和左肩膀忍受着剧痛。
Ms. Kane, who is now lying on her bed at home, has almost exhausted her waist and is unable to stand, enduring severe pain in her left pelvis, right thigh pain and left shoulder.
一切都只能等待疫情消退。
Everything will have to wait until the epidemic subsides.
但是他不确定妈妈的性命也能等到疫情消退。
But he is not sure his mother's life will be spared until the epidemic subsides.
微博上的“#非肺炎患者求助#”话题每天都在更新，阅读量几天内破四千万，求助者大多是肿瘤的患者和家属。
The "# Non-pneumonia patients for help" topic on Weibo is updated every day, reading a few days more than 40 million people, mostly patients and family members of tumors.
疫情中断了他们的治疗计划，给他们带来了比病毒还可怕的阴霾。
The outbreak has disrupted their treatment plans, bringing them a more dire haze than the virus.
眼见疫情完全平复还遥遥无期，什么时候才能再恢复到治疗正轨？武汉已陆续开放收治非新冠肺炎患者的医院，同时增加十多家医疗机构开放急诊。
Wuhan has opened hospitals for patients with non-Newly crowned Pneumonia, and more than a dozen medical institutions have opened emergency services.
随着疫情形势的逐渐好转，非肺炎患者的医疗救助问题亟需得到更多关注以及更妥善的解决。
With the gradual improvement of the epidemic situation, the medical assistance for non-pneumonia patients needs more attention and better solution.
疫情如同一场黑暗旋涡，越来越多的生命被卷入其中，来不及呼救，来不及哀嚎。
The outbreak is like a dark vortex, more and more lives were involved in it, too late to call for help, too late to whine.
而倾巢之下，被旋入这场深渊的，绝不仅仅是患者。
And it is not just the patients who are being sucked into this abyss under the roof.
除了在生死边缘挣扎的肺炎患者和医护人员，还有每个正靠一己之力与病魔搏斗的“普通患者”。
In addition to pneumonia patients and health-care workers struggling to survive, there are "ordinary patients" who are struggling with the disease on their own.
可以说，他们比谁都更渴望这场疫情尽快平复。
Arguably, more than anyone else, they are eager for a quick recovery from the epidemic.
作者 | 南风窗记者 肖瑶排版 | GINNY图片 | 部分来源于网络南风窗新媒体出品点击购买最新一期《南风窗》点在看让理性的声音传得更遥远。
South Window reporter Xiao Yao & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
这个头条，我们留给非肺炎患者。
This headline, we leave it to non-pneumonia patients.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "南风窗";。
Var nickname = & quot; South Window & quot;;
var msg_title = "这个头条，我们留给非肺炎患者";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; a headline we left with non-pneumonia patients & quot;;
var msg_desc = "在生死边缘挣扎的，还有每个正靠一己之力与病魔搏斗的“普通患者”";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; who is struggling with the disease on his own.
var title ="南风窗";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
