封城一月，一个武汉女人的抗疫史诗。
An anti-epidemic epic for a Wuhan woman in January.
何承波。
He Chengbo.
南风窗                      。
South Window.
南风窗。
South Window.
冷静的力量。
The power of coolness.
小姨电话打进来时，蔡婷正坐在去隔离的转运车上。
Cai Ting was sitting on the freight train to the quarantine station when her aunt called.
“外婆走了”，小姨在电话里哭。
"Grandmother's gone," Aunt cried on the phone.
那通两分钟的电话里，蔡婷没有哭——之后也没有。
During the two-minute phone call, Cai Ting didn't cry - nor did she.
她上一次哭，还是一个星期前的2月5日，她拿到了核酸阴性的检测结果，而母亲也是单阳，明知患病但都无法被收治。
The last time she cried, on February 5 a week ago, she got a nucleic acid-negative test, and her mother, a single yang, knew she was sick but could not be admitted.
她在医院里爆哭一场，哭得喘不了气，现在想想，她觉得太吓人了，“我害怕我会哭死”。
She burst out crying in the hospital, gasping for breath, and now she thinks it's too scary. "I'm afraid I'll cry to death."
这天是2月12日，蔡婷因肺部病毒性感染，马上要被送去一个条件据说很差的学校隔离点，5公里的路程，公交车兜兜转转，走了1个多小时，不断有人上车，都是跟她差不多的疑似患者。
On Feb. 12, Cai Ting was about to be sent to an allegedly poor school quarantine, a 5-kilometer drive, a drive around the bus for more than an hour, and more than an hour of getting on the bus, suspected patients like her.
小姨电话是在下午6点过打来的，此时“该死的转运车上”都是人，蔡婷没有任何激动的表达，她冷静地告诉小姨：“你不要哭，眼泪会把口罩弄坏，你还会把身体哭得更糟。
Aunt call at 6 p.m., when the "damn transporter" are people, Cai Ting did not have any excited expression, she calmly told aunt: "You do not cry, tears will damage the mask, you will make the body cry worse.
”小姨这天刚出院，她感染了新冠肺炎，还是重症，经过近一个月的救治，总算出院了。
She had recently been discharged from hospital with Newcastle pneumonia, or critically ill, and after nearly a month of treatment she was finally discharged.
小姨是下午4点到家的，2个小时后，与小姨相依为命的老妈——蔡婷的外婆，就在家里的床上去世了。
Aunt came home at 4 pm, 2 hours later, with the aunt, Cai Ting's grandmother, died in the bed at home.
小姨说，外婆没能跟她说上一句话——已经病得没有任何反应，但她肯定听到了，所以才咽了气。
Grandmother could not say a word to her - she was too ill to react, but she must have heard, so she swallowed.
治愈、隔离、死亡，所有的事情，都发生在这一天了。
Healing, isolation, death, everything, it happened on this day.
那天，她的转运车在“条件很差的学校”门口转了一圈，莫名其妙又回来了，直接把他们送去了武汉一家豪华酒店——丰颐大酒店。
That day, her transporter in the "poor conditions of the school" around the door, inexplicably back, sent them directly to a luxury hotel in Wuhan - Fengyi Hotel.
后来，这里的病友们跟她说，最近老做梦，觉得最近的事情，都是假的。
Later, the sick people here told her that they had been dreaming recently and that the recent events were all false.
“留下来”种种阴差阳错，蔡婷留在了冬天的武汉。
"Stay" a variety of Yinyang mistakes, Cai Ting stayed in the winter Wuhan.
去年下半年，她处于失业状态，年底找了份泰国的工作。
She lost her job in the second half of last year and got a job in Thailand by the end of the year.
如果一切正常——一周内拿到泰国的工作签证，那么2019年11月后，她人就不在国内了。
If all goes well - a work visa for Thailand within a week - she will be out of the country after November 2019.
但不知道为什么，今年的签证异常地等了2个月，始终没有消息。
But for some reason, this year's visa was unusually long for two months, with no news.
过去11年，每逢春节，她就拿着护照，背着旅行包离开了武汉。
For the past 11 years, she left Wuhan with her passport and bag on her back every Spring Festival.
但2020年年初又一个例外，打断了她这个传统。
But her tradition was interrupted by another exception in early 2020.
1月9日，在武汉某高校做后勤工作的小姨林小姝去了一趟校医室。
On January 9, Xiao Ni Lin, an aunt who worked logistics in a university in Wuhan, went to the hospital.
林小姝的腹部有点肿，她以为自己胖了，但怎么看都不太对劲，她想查一下B超。
Lin Xiao Shu's abdomen is a little swollen, she thought she was fat, but how to see is not quite right, she wants to check B ultra.
几天后，湖北省人民医院给出了诊断结果：卵巢癌，已经扩散。
A few days later, Hubei Provincial People's Hospital gave the diagnosis: ovarian cancer, has spread.
肿胀的腹部，是癌症患者后期会出现的典型症状：腹部积水。
A swollen abdomen is a typical symptom of a cancer patient later in life: hydronephrosis.
1月14日，护士在林小姝的手臂置入了一根细长的导管，从外周静脉，直抵中心静脉，为的是避免化疗药物给血管造成损害，防止药物外渗。
January 14, Nurse Lin Xiaobu's arm into a slender tube, from the peripheral veins, into the central vein, to avoid chemotherapy drugs damage blood vessels, prevent drug leakage.
第二天，化疗就这样开始了。
The next day, chemotherapy began.
但这根“生命线”后来也留下了一度令人崩溃的麻烦。
But this "lifeline" later left a messy mess.
而蔡婷也就这样留了下来，贴身照顾她的小姨。
And Cai Ting also kept down in this way, close to take care of her aunt.
小姨今年59岁，一直以来跟87岁的外婆相依为命。
Auntie, 59, has been living with her 87-year-old grandmother.
外公30多年前去世了，而小姨也在20多年前失去了唯一的儿子，随后又离婚了。
Grandpa died more than 30 years ago, and Aunt lost her only son more than 20 years ago, and then divorced.
白天，蔡婷在医院，晚上回到小姨家里，照看小姨的老妈，也是蔡婷的“家家”（外婆），外婆体弱多病，患有高血压、冠心病，常年在家吸氧。
During the day, Cai Ting in the hospital, back at night aunt to look after the aunt, also Cai Ting's "family" (grandmother), grandmother weak and infirm, high blood pressure, coronary heart disease, perennial at home oxygen.
前一段时间，老人家总哀叹自己活不过2019年了。
Some time ago, the elderly people always lament that they will not live to 2019.
小姨的化疗效果还不错，原计划是休养21天，过了年接着下一个疗程。
Aunt's chemotherapy effect is good, originally planned to rest 21 days, after the next course of treatment.
但就在快出院时，也就是1月19日，小姨开始发烧了。
But just before she was released from the hospital, on January 19th, Aunt began to have a fever.
后来人们都知道，此时新型冠状病毒已经侵袭武汉，并向全国蔓延。
Later it was known that the new coronavirus had struck Wuhan and spread to the whole country.
而对于小姨，大量正常细胞随癌细胞一同被化疗药物杀死，免疫力受损，化疗后虚弱不堪的身体，遇到病毒袭来则如入无人之境。
In the case of auntie, large numbers of normal cells are killed with chemotherapy drugs, immunity is impaired, the weakened body after chemotherapy, and the virus strikes.
她很快也倒下了。
She soon fell down, too.
长江日报记者 陈卓/摄一开始，除了发热，林小姝没有任何不适，风暴前短暂的平静后，她的病情急速恶化，很快出现了呼吸困难。
Changjiang Daily reporter Chen Zhuo / Photographer, except for the fever, Lin Xiaobu did not feel any discomfort, after the short calm before the storm, her condition rapidly deteriorated, soon appeared difficult to breathe.
2020年1月22日确诊，24日转入定点医院武汉第九人民医院。
Confirmed on January 22, 2020, 24 transferred to the designated hospital Wuhan Ninth People's Hospital.
之后，每天十多个小时贴身照顾的蔡婷，也出现了发热症状，蔡婷母亲也很快被感染。
Afterwards, more than 10 hours of daily personal care Cai Ting, also appeared fever symptoms, Cai Ting's mother was also quickly infected.
但等她自己和母亲要争取诊治时，武汉的医疗资源已经严重透支了，接下来的事情，举步维艰，处处都是坎儿。
But by the time she and her mother tried to get treatment, Wuhan's medical resources had been severely overstretched, the next thing, difficult, everywhere.
林小姝对外甥姑娘和姐姐充满了愧疚，说是自己感染了她们。
Lin Xiaoshu to niece and sister full of guilt, said that they infected them.
但蔡婷说，她也不知道谁先传染给了谁，当时传言14楼的重症科收治了一位这样的病人。
But Cai Ting said she did not know who infected who first, then rumored that the 14th floor of the intensive care unit admitted a patient like this.
“谁知道呢，医院本身就是高危地。
"Who knows, the hospital itself is in high danger.
”也许留下来是命中注定的。
Perhaps it was a fate to stay.
隔离治疗“有一种打不过明天的感觉。
Isolation Therapy "There's a feeling you can't beat tomorrow.
”蔡婷说。
'said Cai Ting.
一开始，湖北省人民医院不接收发热病人，也无法给林小姝提供转院协助，要求她出院。
Initially, Hubei Provincial People's Hospital do not accept fever patients, nor can provide Lin Xiaobu hospital transfer assistance, requiring her to leave the hospital.
后来，医院还是答应协调转院了，第一天没有成功，第二天也没有成功，那时，她每天烧到39度多。
Later, the hospital agreed to coordinate the transfer, the first day did not succeed, the next day did not succeed, when she burning more than 39 degrees.
期间，有3天她没用上任何药物。
Meanwhile, for three days she did not take any medication.
1月24日，她终于进入了武汉市第九医院的隔离病房。
On January 24, she finally entered the isolation ward of Wuhan Ninth Hospital.
但此时九医院刚刚开始接收发热病人，各方面准备不足，条件很差，又混乱。
By this time, however, the hospital was just beginning to receive febrile patients and was ill-prepared, ill-equipped and confused.
治疗手段也没有，他们只给了林小姝一颗退热栓。
There's no cure either. They just give Lin Xiaobu an antifebrile.
早餐是一罐八宝粥，没有热水。
Breakfast is a pot of porridge, no hot water.
作为化疗病人，这样的营养远远跟不上。
As a patient in chemotherapy, such nutrition is far from adequate.
后来林小姝呼吸已经困难，靠着呼吸机才能维持生命。
Then Lin Xiaobu breathing has been difficult, relying on the breathing machine to maintain life.
她说：“我觉得那时候活不过明天了。
"I don't think I'll live to-morrow," she said.
”情况最糟糕的时候，她跟外甥姑娘交代着一些零零碎碎的后事，说得上气不接下气。
"At the worst, she confided to her niece about the odd affair, and was breathless.
但蔡婷这边情况也不明朗了，她很清楚，小姨确诊了，自己99%也中招了。
But Cai Ting this side of the situation is also unclear, she is very clear, auntie diagnosed, their 99% also admitted.
1月23日，她烧到39度以上，救护车从中午一直等到晚上。
On 23 January, she burned to over 39 degrees and the ambulance lasted from noon until evening.
当晚，在医院折腾了一整夜，接近天亮才做完了检查。
That night, I spent the whole night in the hospital and finished the examination near daybreak.
但当时情况还正常，她只得回家隔离了。
But the situation was normal and she had to go home and be isolated.
林小姝在九医院治疗了几天，情况稳定了下来，但此时她身体里的PICC导管，也到了维护期。
Lin Xiaobu in the hospital treatment for a few days, the situation stabilized, but at this time her body in the PICC catheter, also to maintain the period.
林小姝着急了起来，如果不及时维护，会出现感染、血栓，或者引发一些并发症。
Lin Xiaobu worried up, if not timely maintenance, there will be infections, thrombosis, or cause some complications.
每次护士和医生进来查房，“我就求他们，说好话，一定要帮我维护一下”。
Every time a nurse and a doctor come in to check in, "I beg them to speak up and be sure to help me maintain it."
但医生们也很无奈，他们没有设备，也没有护士会处理。
But doctors are also helpless, they have no equipment, no nurses to deal with.
一般情况，只有少数肿瘤科护士具备这样的技能和条件。
In general, only a small number of oncology nurses have such skills and qualifications.
不过，医院为她请来了省人民医院的医生，度过了第一关。
However, the hospital brought in a doctor from the Provincial People's Hospital for her and passed the first exam.
但第二次就请不来了，只拿回来一个消毒包，好在一个西安来的援助医生碰巧出现，帮了她的大忙。
But the second time did not invite, only to bring back a sterile bag, but a Xi'an aid doctor happened to appear, to her great help.
麻烦事总是成堆成堆地出现，“过了一关，下一关又不知道怎么过”，这种生活正成为常态。
Troubles are always piled up, "over a level, the next level do not know how to live", this kind of life is becoming the norm.
87岁的母亲每天盼着林小姝回家，多年来，母女俩相互羁绊，相互依赖，相互照顾彼此的晚年生活。
The 87-year-old mother goes home looking forward to Then come home, and over the years, mothers and daughters will bond with each other, depend on each other, and take care of each other's later life.
老妈每天跟她打电话，林小姝则告诉妈妈，要坚持，等她回来。
Mom called her every day, and Lin Xiao Ni told her to hold on until she came back.
前半个月，母亲还能下床动一下，晚上还有外孙女蔡婷去照顾。
During the first half month, my mother was able to get out of bed and take care of her granddaughter Cai Ting at night.
但随着蔡婷、蔡婷母亲纷纷感染并隔离，林小姝的哥哥也患有呼吸道的重病，老人身边就没有人了。
But with Cai Ting, Cai Ting mother in succession infected and isolated, Lin Xiaoxu's brother also suffered from serious respiratory illness, the old man around no one.
林小姝只能眼看着老人家的身体一天天垮下去，她知道母亲孤独，她想住院治疗，想活命，也想子女团聚，但却没办法为母亲找到医院和病床，自己被隔离治疗，已经连带她去打个针也无能为力。
Then there comes a time when you'll see an old man's health break down, And she knows that her mother is alone, That she wants hospitalization, And wants to live, And wants to be with her children, But can't find a hospital or a bed for her, And that she's being treated in isolation, And there's nothing she can do about it.
“去也是死，不去也是死。
"To go is to die, not to go is to die.
”林小姝旁边病床上是一位80岁的老太太，得了重症新冠肺炎，不能动弹，每天躺在床上叫，饭也吃不了，屎尿就拉在裤子里，“有的护士抽空能喂两口饭，有的护士根本管不过来”。
Then there was an 80-year-old woman, who had severe pneumonia, couldn't move, lay in bed every day screaming and couldn't eat, and just got stuck in his pants. "Some nurses had time to feed two mouths, some nurses couldn't manage it.
回顾这段经历，林小姝情绪绷不住了，她的讲述变得反反复复，偶尔也陷入自言自语，连声叹气，她的声音颤抖着，夹杂哭腔：“造业啊，我妈妈真是造业。
Then, looking back at that experience, there was a tension in Lin Shu, her story became repetitive, occasionally into self-talk, sighing, her voice trembling, mixed with crying: "Construction, my mother is a real industry.
”蔡婷正隔离在家里。
Cai Ting was isolated at home.
那段时间，外婆不停地给她和家人们打电话，她想住院，蔡婷说：“我们就跟她明说了，现在没有医院可以住！”“外婆不耐烦听，但就是不停地打电话给我们。
During that time, grandmother kept calling her and her family, she wanted to be hospitalized, Cai Ting said: "We told her, there is no hospital to live!" "Grandmother impatient to listen, but kept calling us.
”蔡婷想象得出，外婆在座机上按那些数字时的艰难，也能想象外婆的绝望和孤立无援。
"Cai Ting imagined that grandmother in the plane according to those figures when the difficult, but also can imagine grandmother's despair and helplessness.
外婆只会用座机，她有一个手写的电话本，但字很小。
Grandma could only use a landline. She had a handwritten phone book, but it was small.
之前，蔡婷还把电话本换了一下，每一页只写一串，让她看着不至于那么费劲。
Before, Cai Ting also changed the phone book, each page only write a string, so that she did not look so hard.
外婆所在的小区大门很快也封死了，蔡婷要赶去的话，需要绕3公里，但不幸的是，早在2月3日，蔡婷因为高热，在家里休克过一次，她的脸摔在地上，全是血。
Grandmother's neighborhood soon closed the door, Cai Ting had to go around three kilometers, but unfortunately, as early as February 3, Cai Ting because of high fever, Tsai Ting in the home shock, her face fell to the ground, blood.
“羞耻的是”，她还尿失禁了，身体感到一阵冰凉才醒来。
"Shame is", she still urinary incontinence, the body feels a cold just wake up.
她去了武汉市第三医院光谷院区，不仅外伤没有得到处理，医院当时甚至也没办法给她治疗发热问题。
She went to the Guanggu courtyard of Wuhan Third Hospital. Not only was the trauma not treated, but the hospital was unable even to treat her fever.
居家隔离后，看望了外婆两次后，种种条件已经不再允许蔡婷再去探望了，“可以自私一点地说，我也要保我自己的命”。
After the home isolation, visited the grandmother twice, the conditions no longer allowed Cai Ting to visit again, "can selfishly say, I have to protect my own life."
不再哭泣蔡婷很少哭。
No Crying Cai Ting rarely cried.
第一次是除夕，封城第二天。
The first was New Year's Eve, the second day.
她的朋友不听家属劝阻，除夕当晚，从荆州搭了一辆工程车赶回武汉。
Her friends did not listen to family dissuasion, New Year's Eve, from Jingzhou took an engineering car back to Wuhan.
这位朋友是某三甲医院的药剂师，原本回家过年了，但武汉疫情严重，要赶回来支援。
This friend is a certain triple A hospital pharmacist, originally returned home to celebrate the New Year, but Wuhan serious epidemic, to rush back to support.
凌晨两三点，朋友到了高速收费站，但进不了城，回不了单位。
Two or three in the morning, friends to the high-speed toll station, but can not enter the city, can not return to the unit.
一个女生孤身在荒郊野岭，蔡婷想，怎么也要帮这位朋友弄到车，接她回来。
A girl alone in the outskirts of the mountains, Cai Ting thought, how to help this friend to get a car, to pick her back.
她和蔡婷只是网友，但帮过蔡婷很多忙，这份恩情，一定要还。
She and Cai Ting are only netizens, but has helped Cai Ting a lot of help, this benevolence, must pay back.
蔡婷一开始找了个出租车司机，40公里要价1000元，朋友月薪才5000元，不想花钱，所以拒绝了。
Cai Ting first found a taxi driver, 40 kilometers to charge 1000 yuan, friends only 5000 yuan a month, do not want to spend money, so refused.
后来，有人愿意免费去接，但她和朋友觉得这个陌生人怪怪的，谢绝了他的好意。
Later, someone offered to pick him up for free, but she and her friends thought the stranger was strange and declined his offer.
折腾了几个小时，进城问题依然没有解决。
After toiling for hours, the problem of entering the city remained unresolved.
蔡婷刚经历了那场发烧后噩梦般的检查，在医院里，从晚上9点折腾到凌晨5点。
Cai Tinggang went through the nightmarish inspection after the fever and was in the hospital from 9: 00 pm to 5: 00 am.
“平时轻而易举可以办到的事情，现在比登天还难。
Things that are easy to do in ordinary times are harder to do than to ascend the sky.
”她跟朋友讲着电话，突然崩溃大哭起来，朋友也在那头大哭。
"She was talking on the phone to her friend, who broke down and began to cry.
而10天过去，哭变成已经很危险的事情。
And 10 days later, crying has become a very dangerous thing.
蔡婷的母亲拖了太久，已经快发展成重症了，呼吸困难，走不了路了。
Cai Ting's mother has dragged for too long, has quickly developed into a severe illness, breathing difficulties, can not walk.
当时病床极度紧缺，收治标准苛刻，而且唯有核酸确诊才有机会。
There was an acute shortage of beds, harsh admission standards and only a diagnosis of nucleic acids.
她推着轮椅上的母亲，排着长长的队，好不容易做了核酸，结果还是阴性，这就意味着，她和母亲还得继续这样折腾。
She pushed her mother in a wheelchair and queued up for a long line of nucleic acids, but the result was negative, which meant that she and her mother had to continue to toss.
所以拿到结果时，她又哭了一场，哭到喘不过气。
So when she got the result, she cried again until she was out of breath.
但她突然怕了，怕自己会哭死。
But suddenly she was afraid that she would cry herself to death.
好在2月5日后，诊断和收治标准开始松动了。
Fortunately, after February 5, the criteria for diagnosis and treatment began to loosen.
2月7日，她冒着雨，推母亲去住院。
On 7 February, she braved the rain to push her mother to the hospital.
一公里的路，坡坡坎坎的，她们走了一个多小时。
One kilometer up the slope of Kankan. They walked for over an hour.
蔡婷今年43岁，依旧单身。
Tsai Ting, 43, is still single.
父亲十多年前去世了，她有个弟弟，但她不想把他卷进来，她说：“我跟我妈两人相互祸害就好了，不要殃及其他家人。
Her father died more than a decade ago and she had a younger brother, but she didn't want to involve him in it. She said, "I wish my mother and I would do each other harm.
”好在，母亲现在得救了，小姨也在好转。
Fortunately, my mother was saved, and my aunt was getting better.
但是，外婆却没有再给她打过电话了，这种状态一直持续了四五天。
But Grandma didn't call her again, and it lasted four or five days.
后来她得知，外婆把求救电话打到了一位“关系特别辗转”的亲戚那里。
Later, she learned that Grandma had called a relative who was in a "special relationship."
甚至，2月10日前后，凌晨4点半，外婆还打给了小姨的一个朋友，想请她过来。
She even called one of her aunts around 4: 30 a.m. around February 10 to ask her to come over.
而此时小姨马上可以出院了。
By this time my aunt was ready to leave hospital.
2月12日下午4点，林小姝赶回家时，外婆已经昏迷。
February 12, 4 p.m., Lin Xiaobu rushed home, grandmother has passed out.
6点20分，她就去世了。
At 6: 20 she died.
林小姝上报社区后，很快就有人上门来处理尸体。
Lin Xiaobu reported to the community, soon after someone came to deal with the corpse.
当晚，林小姝的哥哥嫂嫂也在场，哥哥因为呼吸道疾病，去年进过两次ICU，身体虚弱不堪。
That night, Lin Xiaobu's brother sister-in-law was also present, because of respiratory illness, last year into the ICU, weak and weak.
11点，母亲的遗体处理完，哥哥嫂嫂也被拉去隔离了。
At 11 o'clock, the mother's body was disposed of, and the sister-in-law was taken to isolation.
在蔡婷眼中，小姨从来乐观，蔡婷从未见她哭过，但眼睁睁看着外婆在眼皮底下去世，这对小姨的打击太大了。
In Cai Ting's eyes, Aunt has never been optimistic, Cai Ting has never seen her cry, but watched grandmother die in front of her eyes, this is too hard for aunt.
出院前，她声音爽朗，比化疗前还健康，但现在，她越来越虚弱，情绪也游走在崩溃的边缘。
Before she was discharged from the hospital, she had a crisp voice, healthier than before chemotherapy, but now she's getting weaker and her mood is on the verge of collapse.
在《南风窗》记者的采访中，林小姝也反复念着，“作为女儿，没有给母亲尽到孝”。
In the "South Window" reporter's interview, Lin Xiaobu also repeatedly read, "As a daughter, did not give the mother filial piety."
“活下去”林小姝也 “认清现实”了：“死的人已经死了，活着的人，还要想办法继续活下去。
"Live" Lin Xiaoshu also "recognized the reality": "The dead are dead, the living, but also to find ways to continue living.
”新冠肺炎痊愈出了院，她的事情却一度变得更麻烦了。
New Crown Pneumonia recovered from the hospital, but for a time her affairs became more troublesome.
蔡婷告诉我，她们需要向媒体求救了，但她又笑着说，我们家的事情，还不够惨。
Cai Ting told me that they need to call the media for help, but she smiled and said that our family's affairs, not enough tragic.
“论悲惨情况，在武汉都排不上1万强。
"On the tragic situation, Wuhan can not be ranked in the top ten thousand.
”言下之意求救信都“没有卖点”，可能没有关注度。
The message was that there were "no selling points" and that there might be no concern.
困扰还是来自林小姝手臂上那根PICC导管。
Trouble or from Lin Xiaobu on the arm of the PICC catheter.
2月16日，导管到了维护期，但林小姝打遍了各大医院的电话，要么没人接，要么打不通。
February 16, the catheter to the maintenance period, but Lin Xiaobu called the major hospitals, either no one answered, or could not get through.
“即便打通了，说到自己新冠肺炎的情况，医院都说处理不了。
"Even if I do, the hospital says it can't handle the case of my new crown pneumonia.
”她认为，自己即便是“阴性”了，别人还是心有戒备。
"Even when she's" negative, "she thinks others are on the defensive.
这天，蔡婷打电话给小姨，叫她下载一个APP，跟化疗的主管医生进行线上咨询。
On that day, Cai Ting called Auntie and asked her to download an APP for on-line consultation with the chemo director.
但弄了一个小时，她们始终没能从苹果应用商店里安装成功，小姨崩溃了，她在电话里嚎啕大哭。
But after an hour, they never succeeded in installing an Apple App Store. Aunt collapsed and she cried loudly on the phone.
这是蔡婷第一次见她这样，心里酸极了。
It was the first time Cai Ting had seen her like this.
蔡婷发视频教程给她，试图说服她自己处理，但她很抗拒。
Tsai Tingfa video tutorials to her, trying to persuade her to deal with it herself, but she resisted.
PICC导管折磨着小姨的脆弱神经，如今，这根“生命线”成了一根引信。
The PICC catheter torments Aunt's fragile nerves, and now the "lifeline" is a fuse.
疫情凶猛的时候，省人民医院曾通知他们的患者去拔管，但林小姝没有收到通知。
When the outbreak was ferocious, the provincial People's Hospital had informed their patients to pull out the tube, but Lin Xiaobu did not receive notice.
彼时，她正在九医院里抢救。
At the time, she was in nine hospitals.
但眼下大多数肿瘤医院和肿瘤科医生都去支援发热门诊了，像她这样的肿瘤患者只能“看着那扇门，走不进去”。
But now that most oncology hospitals and oncologists have come to support a fever clinic, oncologists like her can only "look at that door and not get in."
2月17日，《南风窗》记者联系了仅有几家可维护PICC的医院，得到的回复要么是“只维护本院病人”，要么说接诊时间未定，有的一个星期前还能维护，但现下也去支援前线了。
On February 17, Window South contacted only a few hospitals that were able to maintain the PICC and received responses ranging from "maintaining only patients at the hospital" to the fact that treatment dates had not yet been set and that some had been maintained a week earlier, but were now on the frontlines.
将林小姝的求救信息转给雷火救援队的志愿者，志愿者们总结的经验是，最有效的办法，给社区打电话，让他们有曝光的压力，自然会想办法安排。
By transferring the message from Lin Xiaobu to volunteers on a lightning rescue team, the volunteers learned that the most effective way to call the community, to let them have exposure pressure, naturally will find a way to arrange.
这天，两名志愿者每隔半小时给社区打一次电话，询问林小姝的情况。
On that day, two volunteers called the community every half an hour to ask about Lin Xiaobu.
几个小时后，社区告知，明天带她去做CT，如果检查没问题，就带她处理导管。
A few hours later, the community told her to take her to a CT scan tomorrow and take her to the catheter if the tests were all right.
但林小姝害怕志愿者把社区“惹烦了”，叮嘱我们“好好沟通”，她什么都靠社区了，连送饭都是，怕社区烦了不管她。
But Lin Xiaobu is afraid of the community "annoyed by the volunteers," told us to "communicate well," she depends on the community everything, even the delivery of food, fear that the community annoys her.
好在，2月20日，社区终于带着林小姝去了省肿瘤医院做PICC维护。
Fortunately, on February 20, the community took Xiao Ni Lin to the provincial cancer hospital for PICC maintenance.
蔡婷报备后，也获准陪同她前去。
Tsai Ting reported that she was also allowed to accompany her.
这天是省肿瘤医院刚恢复部分癌症治疗的第一天，蔡婷说，她看到了很多比她们还要可怜的人，有外地的在封城前赶来化疗，但到现在也没能回去。
It was the first day of cancer treatment at the provincial oncology hospital, and Cai Ting said she had seen more people than they were in need of chemotherapy but had not been able to return.
林小姝身体越来越虚弱，更让她着急的是，癌细胞什么时候卷土重来，也是个未知数。
Lin Xiaoshu body more and more weak, let her worry about when cancer will return, is also unknown.
这依然是悬在她头上的大石头。
It was still a big stone hanging over her head.
漫长的冬蔡婷听过一些奇特的事情。
The long winter Cai Ting has heard some strange things.
2月19日，一位朋友在微信上跟她说，他们小区有对60岁的夫妻，妻子死了5天了，也没上报，想等疫情结束再处理，直到被社区工作人员发现。
On February 19, a friend wrote to her about a 60-year-old couple in their neighborhood who had died for five days and had not reported it, and wanted to wait until the outbreak was over before being discovered by community workers.
她也遇到了很多“奇特的好人”，社区里的司机，经常接送她和家人，司机是网约车平台派驻过来，对病毒无所畏惧，是为数不多的敢接送发热病人的“敢死队”。
She also met many "odd nice people," drivers in the community who often pick her up and down with her family, drivers on internet dating platforms, fearless for viruses, and one of the few "death squads" that dare to transport febrile patients.
司机是个外地人，跟武汉没有什么瓜葛，封城后却赶来支援武汉，自己睡在地下室里。
The driver is a stranger, with no involvement with Wuhan, after the closure of the city came to support Wuhan, their own sleep in the basement.
这位司机对她说，“其实你会发现这一切都不是真的”。
The driver told her, "You'll actually find it's not true."
“当时我只在想，你是不是也变态了，自欺欺人到了这个程度了。
"At the time I was just thinking, you are not metamorphosis, self-delusion to this degree.
”蔡婷认为，过去了这么长时间，出现应激障碍也是在所难免的。
Cai Ting believes that the past so long, the emergence of stress disorder is inevitable.
蔡婷在日记里写，她对武汉的记忆停滞了。
Cai Ting wrote in her diary that her memory of Wuhan had stagnated.
大年初一那天，她来往家和医院80公里去给小姨送免疫球蛋白，她觉得这辈子可能再也见不到小姨了，又想到武汉人怎么这么惨。
On New Year's Day, she traveled 80 kilometers to her home and hospital to deliver immunoglobulin to her aunt. She thought that she would never see her aunt again.
那天下着冷雨，空寂的武汉城印在脑海，“之后有太阳也觉得是假的”。
It was a cold rainy day, the empty Wuhan city in mind, "after the sun also feel false."
长江日报记者 陈卓/摄外婆去世那天，小姨打电话来时，她正在隔离转运车上。
Chang Jiang Daily reporter Chen Zhuo / Grandma She died, aunt when the phone call, she was isolating the transporter.
听到这个噩耗，她没哭，后来也没有。
She didn't cry at the bad news and didn't cry afterwards.
朋友告诉她，没事要哭一顿。
Her friend told her she had nothing to cry on.
但她觉得自己不会再哭了，她以为自己快没人性了。
But she felt that she would stop crying. She thought she was going to be dehumanized.
2月18日，酒店的隔离病人被带去做CT检测，“病友们”有了一次难得的交流，蔡婷发现，“原来大家最近都在做梦，说梦见了最近的事情，都是假的”。
On Feb. 18, the isolation patient was taken to a CT scan, and the "sick friends" had a rare exchange. "It turns out that everyone has been dreaming recently about things that are false," Cai Ting found.
去做CT的路上，一位同学给蔡婷发来了一段文字，讲到了洪山区武电仪小区的一位诊所医生，一位72岁的老奶奶，名叫王兵，过年还在治病救人，自己却感染了。
On the way to do CT, a classmate sent a text to Cai Ting, said Hongshan District Wu Yi District of a clinic doctor, a 72-year-old grandmother named Wang Bing, the Spring Festival is still treating people, but he was infected.
但她要求不去住院，而是自己在家打针，“要把宝贵的床位留给那些重症患者”，但王兵还是去世了，而她的家人，也随之感染。
But she asked not to be hospitalized, but to inject herself, "to leave the precious bed for the seriously ill," but Wang died and her family was infected.
回到酒店，再看那段文字，想到这位老奶奶，蔡婷哭了很久，感觉把那么久的眼泪哭干了。
Back to the hotel, and then look at the text, think of this old woman, Cai Ting cried for a long time, feeling so long tears dry.
后来，她对《南风窗》记者说，她觉得自己还好，没有变态，还保留了一点人性。
Later, she told the Southern Window reporter that she felt fine, not perverted, but still a little bit humane.
她没法再听《汉阳门花园》这首歌了，听到一半，就赶紧关掉。
She could no longer hear the song Hanyang Men Garden, so she shut it down in the middle of hearing it.
歌里的武汉话唱着：“家家每天在等到我，哪一天能回家，铫子煨的藕汤，总是留到我一大碗，吃了饭就在花园里头，等她的外孙伢。
The Wuhan dialect of the song sang: "Every day, families wait for me to come home one day, so the pot simmers lotus root soup, always to my large bowl, and after dinner in the garden, waiting for her grandson to be so.
”她受不了这歌词。
She could not bear the words.
她很思念自己的“家家”。
She missed her family very much.
酒店隔离点送来的饭菜她跟这场疫情的斗争，如同温水煮青蛙，缓慢、持久，但也损耗心力。
The food she received from the hotel quarantined her fight against the epidemic, like a warm-boiled frog, slowly and persistently, but also exhausting to her heart.
比起确诊、治疗，她没有太显著的症状，但又一直徘徊在某种泥潭里，裹足不前。
She had no significant symptoms compared to diagnosis or treatment, but lingered in some sort of quagmire.
好在，不少朋友都愿意成为她的情绪树洞，听她倾述，安慰她。
Fortunately, many friends are willing to become her emotional tree hole, listen to her, comfort her.
蔡婷迄今为止已经做了四次核酸检测，结果无一例外，都是阴性。
Cai Ting has so far done four nucleic acid tests, the results without exception, are negative.
但要解除隔离，光靠核酸检测是不够的，她的肺部有明确的病毒性感染。
But to get rid of isolation, nucleic acid testing alone was not enough. Her lungs had a clear viral infection.
2月20日开始，整个湖北省又将不再把CT列为诊断标准，政策三天两头在变，她也不知道自己会怎么样。
From Feb. 20, the entire province of Hubei will no longer include CT as a diagnostic standard, policies are changing for three days, she does not know what will happen to her.
她似乎也适应了疫情下的非常态生活，苦笑着说：“要是能解决我家猫猫的投食和铲屎，我在这里住一年都没问题。
She, too, seems to have adapted to the unusual circumstances of the epidemic, and said with a wry smile: "If I could fix my cat's food and shovel the excrement, I would be here for a year.
”她的猫平时高冷，但一到冬天就格外黏人。
Her cat was usually cold, but it stuck to her every winter.
她很担心那只8岁大的猫，除了派驻到社区的司机偶尔帮她投食，铲屎成了个严重的问题。
She was worried that the 8-year-old cat was a serious problem, except for the occasional food shovel by a chauffeur assigned to the community.
她和所有人一样，盼着冬天早点过去。
She, like everyone else, looked forward to the early winter.
（文中蔡婷、林小姝为化名）作者 | 南风窗记者 何承波hcb@nfcmag.com编辑| 李少威排版 | GINNY南风窗新媒体出品点击购买最新一期《南风窗》点在看让理性的声音传得更遥远。
The Nan Chengbo Window reporter He Chengbhcb @ nfcmag.com, an editor; Li Shaowei's new media outlet. Click to buy the latest issue of Window of the South to see the voice of reason spread farther.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
封城一月，一个武汉女人的抗疫史诗。
An anti-epidemic epic for a Wuhan woman in January.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "南风窗";。
Var nickname = & quot; South Window & quot;;
var msg_title = "封城一月，一个武汉女人的抗疫史诗";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by an Wuhan woman in January.
var msg_desc = "她和所有人一样，盼着冬天早点过去";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; she, like everyone, looks forward to having & quot; & quot; earlier in the winter.
var title ="南风窗";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
