肺炎时期的爱情：即使直面死亡，我也要爱。
Love in Pneumonia: I Love Even Facing Death.
薛雨霏等。
Feifei Xue, etc.
南都周刊                      。
Nandu Weekly.
南都周刊。
Nandu Weekly.
有温度的新媒体。
New media with temperature.
白朗宁曾说：“我是幸福的，因为我爱，因为我有爱。
"I am happy," says Browning, "because I love, because I have love.
”在这场疫情面前，除了温馨的小爱，更有大爱无疆。
"In the face of the epidemic, in addition to the warm love, there is no frontier love.
文 |薛雨霏 赵琼 张遥 丁宁 林铭豪 编辑 | 沈小山“无论何时何地，爱情始终都是爱情，只不过距离死亡越近，爱就越浓郁。
Cherry Yu-yee Zhao Jung-nin Zhang Minghao Editing Lin Minghao Whenever and wherever love is always love, the closer it is to death, the more intense it is
”——《霍乱时期的爱情》这个情人节，有点难，但却异常暖心。
Love in the Cholera This Valentine's Day is a bit difficult, but it's incredibly warm.
爱在瘟疫蔓延时，在疾病面前，我们真正看到了什么叫做“若是两情长久时，又岂在朝朝暮暮”，真正的爱是拦不住的。
Love is what we really see in the face of disease when the plague is spreading. It is the twilight of two lovers if they last. True love cannot be stopped.
爱情面前，年龄不是问题，病魔也不是“亲爱的老伴，加油！”浙江杭州市中医院，重症监护室门打开了。
Love, age is not a problem, illness is not "Dear wife, Come on!" Zhejiang Hangzhou Chinese Hospital, intensive care unit door opened.
“谢谢、谢谢；拜托、拜托！”住在老年病科的黄奶奶，一连说了五个“谢谢”、三个“拜托”，将孙爷爷最爱吃的几颗猕猴桃，和一封手写“情书”，拿给护士，拜托她转交给住在ICU的老伴。
"Thank you, thank you, please, please!" Grandma Huang, who lives in geriatrics department, said five "thank you" and three "please," took grandpa's favorite kiwi fruit and a handwritten "love letter" to the nurse and asked her to pass it on to her wife who lives in the ICU.
黄奶奶拜托护士给老伴送情书和猕猴桃“亲爱的老伴：我挺好的！您不要牵挂，儿子孙子都在家，10号星期一可能要上班了。
Grandma Huang asked the nurse to send a love letter and a kiwi to her wife. "I'm fine, don't worry, my son and grandson are all at home.
大儿子是上班封闭，吃住在单位，轮到是两个星期。
The eldest son is closed to work, eating and living in the unit, the turn is two weeks.
您要听护士的话，配合治疗，早日病除，合家团聚，加油！”孙爷爷认真阅读情书孙爷爷已有近90岁的高龄，伴有老年痴呆史，时而清醒时而糊涂，他的老伴儿黄奶奶住在本院的老年病科。
You should listen to the nurse, cooperate with the treatment, get rid of illness as soon as possible, reunite with your family and refuel! Grandpa Sun is nearly 90 years old, with a history of senile dementia, sometimes sober and confused. His wife, Grandma Huang, lives in the geriatrics department of the college.
“每天的下午2:00-3:00是ICU的探视时间，黄奶奶就会带上老爷子爱吃的猕猴桃准时地出现在身边，两个人互相洗洗手、擦擦脸、写写字，互相交流交流。
"From 2 p.m. to 3 p.m. every day, Grandma Huang will show up punctually with her grandson's favorite kiwi, washing their hands, wiping their faces, writing and communicating with each other.
” 杭州市中医院重症监护室护士李柳燕在接受梨视频采访时说，每次两人见面结束准备回去时，黄奶奶都会用自己的额头，贴贴老伴的额头，说“我上去了，你要加油！我一直都在。
'Every time we meet and prepare to go back, Grandma Huang puts her forehead on her forehead and puts it on her wife's forehead and says, 'I'm going up, you need to refuel!
”ICU不能探视之后，黄奶奶就将每日的问候写在小纸条上，拜托护士传递问候与思念。
After the ICU couldn't see her, Grandma Huang wrote her daily greetings on a slip of paper asking the nurse to pass on greetings and thoughts.
每封“情书”都以“亲爱的老伴”开头，以“加油！”结束。
Each "Love Letter" begins with "Dear Old Lady" and ends with "Come on!"
孙爷爷给黄奶奶回信孙爷爷看到老伴传来的纸条，很是心焦，赶忙回信道：“老伴，你太累哩！快回去休息吧，我也回去，明天我们再见。
Grandpa was very worried when he saw the note from his wife. "You're too tired, my wife," he replied hurriedly. "Go back to rest.
（下午4：00见面）杰”。
(meet at 4: 00 p.m.) Jay.
材料、图来源/杭州综合频道“老爷爷有的事情已经记不清了，但还记得老伴在对面。
-Hangzhou Integrated Channel "Some things happened to my grandfather, but I still remember my old friend in the other side.
”武汉汉口医院，87岁的冯爷爷守着83岁的沈奶奶，一起度过了2月14日情人节。
At Hankou Hospital in Wuhan, Grandpa Fung, 87, spent February 14 with Shen, an 83-year-old grandmother.
自2月8日老两口双双感染新冠肺炎，27床的冯爷爷每天都会举着吊瓶，去看望住在对面病房U1床的沈奶奶。
Since Feb. 8, when the couple contracted pneumonia, the 27-year-old Feng holds a bottle of wine every day to see Grandma Shen, who lives on her U1 bed in the opposite ward.
即便是晚上，冯爷爷也要穿着棉服，和衣而睡，就是为了夜里方便起身，随时去探望老伴。
Even at night, Grandpa Feng wears cotton clothes and sleeps, just to get up at night and visit his wife at any time.
“护士，你能帮我用微波炉热一下饭吗？”2月8日下午1点，冯爷爷听说老伴吃不下饭后，小心翼翼地打开自己的饭盒，将花甲壳一颗一颗地剥下来，把肉连同炒鸡蛋一起放入手里的纸杯中，亲自给沈奶奶喂饭。
"Nurse, can you help me warm up my rice in the microwave?" At 1: 00 p.m. February 8, Grandpa Fung opened his lunch box carefully after dinner, peeled the shells off one by one, put the meat and scrambled eggs in a paper cup and fed Grandma Shen himself.
冯爷爷给老伴喂饭到了夜里，冯爷爷也睡不着，起身接了半盆热水，走到护士站的另一侧，为老伴悉心擦洗身体。
At night, Grandpa Feng couldn't sleep. He picked up half of the hot water and went to the other side of the station to give his wife a good scrub.
原来，沈奶奶卧床七年，饮食起居一直都是冯爷爷陪在身边。
It turned out that Grandma Shen had been in bed for seven years. She had been living with Grandpa Feng.
中山大学附属第六医院重症医学科护师孙小玉的日记中记述道：有个老爷爷总是要出门，起初我并不明白为什么。
In the diary of Sun Xiaoyu, a nurse of severe medicine at Zhongshan University's Sixth Hospital, an elderly grandfather was always going out.
后来才发现，是他的老伴住在那边床。
It turned out that his wife was living in the bed over there.
原来爷爷装在纸杯里的好吃的，都是为了给亲爱的妻子；原来手里端的半盆热水，是要给老伴擦干净脸跟身子；原来半夜穿着厚衣服而睡，是为了起身方便，能够去看看妻子是否安睡。
All the delicious things Grandpa had in his paper cup were for his dear wife; the half-basin of hot water at the end of his hand was to clean his face and body; and he had slept in his heavy suit at midnight to get up and see if his wife was asleep.
“老爷爷有的事情已经记不清了，但还记得老伴在对面。
"" Grandpa had some things that I couldn't remember, but I remember my wife over there.
”孙小玉接受梨视频采访时说。
"Sun said in a video interview with pear.
来源：中山大学附属第六医院重症医学科护师孙小玉自述 武汉晚报、梨视频哪怕近在咫尺也不相见，纵使质朴无华缺乏耀眼婚纱，但是我爱你“没事，不要紧。
Source: Sun Xiaoyu, nurse of severe medicine, Zhongshan University's Sixth Hospital, tells us that Wuhan Evening News and pear video are not even close at hand.
”隔离也让近在同城的普通人过上了“异地恋”的生活。
"Isolation also allows ordinary people close to the city to live in a" distant love "life.
抖音用户@徐一个 的家离男朋友家仅仅相隔几栋楼，即便如此仍有许多天没有见面。
Even though Xu's home was only a few blocks from his boyfriend's house, he hadn't seen him for days.
他们在2月2日约定一起上楼顶打招呼，各自把手机镜头焦距拉到最大，向远处那个小人挥手。
On February 2, they agreed to greet each other from the top of the building, each pulling the lens of his cell phone to maximum focus and waving to the little man in the distance.
相恋三年的高柏和启文是武汉的一对同性夫夫，2017年2月中旬，两人通过启文的妈妈相识，组成了彩虹家庭。
Gaobai and Qiwen, who have been together for three years, are the same-sex husbands in Wuhan. In mid-February 2017, the two met through their mother and formed the Rainbow Family.
疫情到来时一家人没能聚到一起。
The family did not get together when the outbreak came.
高柏在市郊陪伴父母和照顾孩子，启文则当时出现了咳嗽的症状，独自居家隔离，启文的爸妈则在汉口。
Cooper accompanied his parents and took care of his children in the outskirts of the city. He developed cough symptoms, isolated at home, and his parents in Hankou.
一家人就在视频连线度过了除夕。
The family spent New Year's Eve on a video link.
同性情侣在视频连线中度过除夕启文的工作内容是医院电子器械的维护，封城初始时交通不便，医院物资也极度短缺，启文无法佩戴保护措施，只能顶着风险进入病房甚至呼吸科、ICU维护器械。
Same-sex couples spent New Year's Eve chatting on the video link, maintaining electronic equipment in hospitals, finding it difficult to transport equipment at the beginning of the city and desperately short of hospital supplies. Unable to wear protective measures, Qiwen had to risk entering the ward or even breathing and ICU maintenance equipment.
担心伴侣危险，高柏给启文购买了口罩、免手洗洗手液等防疫用品快递到家里。
Worried about the danger of his partner, Gauber to Qiwen bought masks, hand-washing hand sanitizer and other epidemic prevention supplies express home.
最大的担心在于启文父亲的身体，因为癌症，老人需要持续化疗，疫情后化疗暂停，两人对此束手无策。
The biggest concern is the father's body, because of cancer, the elderly need to continue chemotherapy, post-epidemic chemotherapy suspended, the two can do nothing about it.
孩子的疫苗也暂时无法接种。
Vaccines for children are also temporarily unavailable.
这段时间，他们会每天入睡前打打视频电话，确认对方的身体、心理状况，让伴侣看看孩子。
During this time, they make video calls every night before going to sleep to confirm their partner's physical and mental health and let them see their child.
高柏曾经想回到家里陪伴启文，但启文没允许。
Cooper once wanted to go home to accompany Qiwen, but QiWen didn't allow it.
启文反过来安慰高柏：“没事，不要紧。
"The message in turn comforted Cooper:" It's okay, it's OK.
”“等到战‘疫’胜利，我一定让你做最美的新娘！”山西晋城，没有装扮华丽的婚车，没有浪漫的婚纱礼服，也没有满座的宾朋友，只有一对新人和一辆车，2月12日，在防疫一线的交警二大队民警李俊杰特意请了一天假，与自己心爱的新娘尚巧娜办了一场简单而“隆重”的婚礼。
"When the battle 'plague' wins, I will make you the most beautiful bride!" Shanxi Jincheng, without ornate wedding car, no romantic wedding dress, no full guest friends, only a couple of new police officers and a car, February 12, at the epidemic prevention front of the police Li Jun Jie special day off, with his beloved bride Shanhaiqiao a simple and "grand" wedding.
这一天，李俊杰穿着红色的大棉服，拿着通行证来到新娘所住小区，面对门卫大爷的例行公事，李俊杰告诉大爷：”接媳妇呀，今天我们结婚“。
On this day, Li Junjie wearing large red cotton clothes, carrying a pass to the bride's community, facing the guard's routine work, Li Junjie told Uncle Li: "Take your daughter-in-law, today we married.
随后，他紧接着解释：“师傅，您放心，现在防范疫情的关键时期，不能聚集，我都知道，我们不会给国家添乱的，让我接上新娘就好！”接新娘出小区后，迎亲的工作也算完成了。
Then he went on to explain, "You may rest assured, master, that during this critical period of epidemic prevention, no gathering will take place, and I know that we will not cause any trouble to the country.
在这个特殊的时期，两人皆是普通穿着，没有任何特殊的装饰，唯一应景的应该算是两人都带着口罩。
At this particular time, both were dressed in plain clothes, without any special decorations, and the only scene was that both were wearing masks.
婚礼虽然简单，新娘尚巧娜说：“婚礼仪式什么的，其实没那么重要，只要这个人是他就好。
Though the wedding was simple, the bride Shang Chona said: "Wedding ceremony or something, in fact, is not so important, as long as this person is he.
他是警察，工作忙，尤其是这个特殊的时期，我都懂。
He's a cop. He's very busy, especially at this particular time. I understand.
”将新娘接回家里，两位新人互戴了结婚戒指。
"Taking the bride home, the two couples exchanged wedding rings.
李俊杰激动而又歉疚地对新娘说：“媳妇儿，今天这婚礼委屈你了，明天我还要去上班，你多担待。
Li Jun Jie excitedly and apologetically said to the bride: "Daughter-in-law, today this wedding wronged you, tomorrow I have to go to work, you have to bear more.
放心，等到战‘疫’胜利，我一定让你做最美的新娘！”山西晋城夫妇举办简易婚礼来源：山西晚报今天，白衣天使们值得爱“愿最平凡而伟大的白衣天使，情人节快乐！”2月14日中午12点，正是武汉市江夏区侨亚隔离点的医护工作人员在酒店房间吃午饭的时候，一开门，李晴就看到了摆在门口的特别的情人节礼物——一张来自山水S酒店工作人员的手写“情书”，和一包费列罗巧克力。
Shanxi Jincheng couple held a simple wedding ceremony today, Shanxi Evening News said today, "May the most ordinary and great white angel, happy Valentine's Day!" As soon as the medical staff of Jiangxia District of Wuhan had lunch in the hotel room, Li Qing saw a special Valentine's Day present at the door, a handwritten Love Letter from the staff of Landscape S Hotel and a package of Ferraro chocolates.
李晴在接受记者采访时说，酒店里入住的大多是在附近隔离点工作的医护人员，总共有五、六十人，来自武汉市江夏区妇幼保健院、江夏区大桥卫生院、江夏区精神卫生中心等不同地区，还有从齐齐哈尔远道而来的驰援队伍，都收到了同一份“情人节礼物”。
In an interview with reporters, Li said most of the hotel's staff, five to 60 people from different areas, including Jiangxia Women's and Children's Hospital, Jiangxia District Bridge Health Center, Jiangxia District Mental Health Center, and rescue teams from Qiqihar received the same Valentine's Day gift.
“谢谢酒店一间一间敲门给我们送礼物，在坚持付出的不仅是我们医护人员，酒店工作者、后勤人员、保洁阿姨、厨房大叔，每一位都是值得敬佩和尊敬的人，谢谢你们！大家辛苦了！”李晴说。
"Thank the hotel for knocking on the door to give us gifts, not only our medical staff, hotel workers, logistics personnel, cleaning aunt, uncle kitchen, everyone is worthy of admiration and respect, thank you! Everybody worked hard!" said Li Qing.
山水S酒店为医护人员送去情人节礼物“有爱才有希望”情人节这天，一手video发布的一则视频《抗疫中催泪故事：有爱才有希望》的播放量已超过150万。
Landscape S sent Valentine's Day gift "Love Is Hope" to health-care workers. On Valentine's Day, more than 1.5 million people watched a video titled "Tears in the Epidemic: Hope With Love," a video released by Hideo.
在这则视频里，面对即将驰援武汉的妻子，丈夫站在大巴车下，隔着玻璃用方言高喊“赵英明，你平安回来！我包一年的家务，我做！听到没有？”说到最后，声音里已带了一丝哽咽，“我老婆，我只希望她平安回来。
In this video, facing his wife, he stood under the bus and shouted in dialect through the glass, "Zhao Yingming, you come back safely! I pack a year of housework, I do it! Do you hear me?" Finally, there is a lump in her voice, "My wife, I just hope she comes back safely.
”“一开始我是不同意的，然后她就跟我说，她学了这么久，这辈子就只有这么一次机会”，佛山市高明区的辅警没忍住在镜头前吸了下鼻子，搂着未婚妻，拿着给她的枸杞水和行李箱，满眼都是眷恋。
"I didn't agree at first, and then she told me she had studied for so long that it was the only chance in her life."
“我女朋友知道我要去前线之后，自己主动申请要去前线，所以我很感动，会发现我们两个感情多么深”，他身旁的女孩子也跟着许愿希望两人都能平安回来。
"My girlfriend knew I was going to the front and applied to the front, so I was touched to see how much we loved each other." The girl next to him made a wish that both of them would come back safely.
“回来我就娶你！”话音未落，这对90后河南护士紧紧相拥。
"I'll marry you when I come back!" The two nurses hugged each other after 90 days.
前线的医护人员夫妻档还有许多。
There are still many couples on the front line.
10多天未回家，抗疫医生夫妻隔窗问候，“老婆，我过来看你了”，玻璃窗内外的两只手牢牢相贴；一堆夫妻在隔离房前偶遇被包得看不出原貌的爱人，在确认过对方身份后，短暂拥抱一下又开始各自工作。
More than 10 days did not return home, the anti-epidemic doctor husband and wife through the window greetings, "wife, I came to see you," the hands inside and outside the window firmly together; a group of couples in front of the isolation room was wrapped up in the original package, confirmed the identity of each other, briefly hugged each other and began to work.
认出彼此的夫妻在隔离房前短暂拥抱95后的女护士在医院值守，面对窗外前来看望的爱人袒露出少见的脆弱，“我想抱抱”。
Female nurses, recognizing each other's brief embrace in front of the isolation room after 95, were on duty at the hospital, exposing a rare vulnerability to their loved ones who came to visit outside the window. "I want to hug."
“怎么办，我也想抱抱”，看着四处无人，他隔着玻璃窗和口罩亲吻辛苦的爱人。
"How, I also want to hug", looked everywhere nobody, he kissed the hard-working lover through the glass window and mask.
95后女护士隔玻璃窗亲吻爱人虽各自奋斗，但仪式感不能少。
95 female nurses through the glass window to kiss their loved ones although their respective struggle, but the sense of ceremony can not be less.
“我用回形针捏了一个像戒指一样的东西，只能用这个先代替一下。
"I pinched something like a ring with a paper clip. I had to use this first instead.
”援鄂护士在疫区单膝半跪在地，“可能今天没有鲜花，没有祝福，没有钻戒，但是今天有你有我”，把手里的钻戒戴进护士女友的无名指。
"Nurse E E E Kneeling on one knee and half in the infected area," Maybe today there are no flowers, no blessings, no diamond ring, but today you have me "and put the diamond ring into the nurse's ring finger.
陕西渭南蒲城县，25岁的快递员张嘉鹏和重症监护室工作的护士妻子李盼，尽管同在一个城市奔波，从大年二十九开始两人已有20天没见过面。
Zhang Jiapeng, a 25-year-old express courier, and Li Xian, the wife of nurses working in intensive care unit in Pucheng county, Shaanxi Province, have not seen each other for 20 days since the mid-twenties, despite travelling around the same city.
2月10日是夫妻两人结婚2周年的纪念日，张嘉鹏用纸板写了“结婚两周年快乐，盼你回家！”，站在医院门口和身穿防护服的妻子隔空过了纪念日，通话短短几分钟后又各自返回工作。
February 10 is the second anniversary of the couple's marriage, Zhang Jiapeng wrote in cardboard "Happy Second Anniversary of Marriage, Looking forward to your return home!"
还有白衣天使和消防员在办公室里举办了五分钟的视频会议。
There were also five-minute videoconferences between white angels and firefighters in the office.
一位同事举着平板问新娘：“陪伴他一生一世，直到永远，你愿意吗？”穿着防护服的新娘拍了下手，对着屏幕里的爱人斩钉截铁地回答“我愿意”。
A colleague raises the plate and asks the bride, "Will you stay with him forever?" The bride in protective clothing claps her hands and answers "I do" to her on-screen lover.
房内其他同事们鼓掌叫好“在这里我们一同祝他们白头偕老，永结同心”。
The other colleagues in the room applauded "together we wish them a long and lasting life together."
来源：一手video白朗宁曾说：“我是幸福的，因为我爱，因为我有爱。
www.51education.net) www.51education.net) www.51education.net) www.51education.net) www.51education.net) www.51education.net) I am happy because I love because I have love.
”在这场疫情面前，除了温馨的小爱，更有大爱无疆。
"In the face of the epidemic, in addition to the warm love, there is no frontier love.
今天，愿我们每一个人都是幸福的。
May each of us be happy today.
来源｜南都周刊END欢迎分享到朋友圈，如想取得授权请邮件：newmedia@nbweekly.com。
http: / / www.youtheme.cnYouTheme (wwwyoutheme.cn) Welcome to your circle of friends and if you want authorization, please email newmedia @ nbweekly.com.
如果想找到小南，可以在后台回复「小南」试试看哦~ 。
If you want to find Xiao Nan, you can reply to "Xiao Nan" in the background.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
肺炎时期的爱情：即使直面死亡，我也要爱。
Love in Pneumonia: I Love Even Facing Death.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "南都周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "肺炎时期的爱情：即使直面死亡，我也要爱";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "白朗宁曾说：“我是幸福的，因为我爱，因为我有爱。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
”在这场疫情面前，除了温馨的小爱，更有大爱无疆。
"In the face of the epidemic, in addition to the warm love, there is no frontier love.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="南都周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
