“停课不停学”第一周，老师战网络，家长做噩梦。
During the first week of "non-stop learning," parents had nightmares during the first week of teacher warfare.
王晓珊、甘笠男等。
Wang Xiaoshan, Gansu men, etc.
南都周刊                      。
Nandu Weekly.
南都周刊。
Nandu Weekly.
有温度的新媒体。
New media with temperature.
“有一次我突击去检查孩子的网课情况，发现她网课是在播放，但是电脑桌面当前窗口显示的却是她的QQ群，原来一群同学正聊得欢。
"One time I raided my child's online class and found it was playing, but the current window on the desktop showed her QQ group, which had been chatting happily.
”记者|王晓珊编辑| 盛倩玉 小豆实习生| 甘笠男 刘苗苗 龚纾绮“咋出来的不是云课堂？难道点错了？”龚老师是武汉一所高中的高三物理老师，已经担任班主任好多年了。
Ms Wang, editor and daughter Wang, has served as class teacher for many years at Rita Lau Miao Gong, a senior physics teacher at a high school in Wuhan.
最近，学校要求开展线上教学，老师们都要先下载课堂软件。
Recently, schools have required online teaching, with teachers downloading classroom software first.
龚老师按照群里的指示，点开下载链接，看见“电脑版”和“手机版”两种版本，点击手机版下载后，屏幕上弹出了一个二维码。
Gong, following instructions from the group, clicked on a download link and saw both "computer" and "mobile" versions. After clicking on the mobile version to download, a two-dimensional code popped up on the screen.
他感觉奇怪，“怎么没有下载？二维码是什么意思？”龚老师尝试刷新了一遍网页，第二次点击下载，还是一样。
He wondered, "Why didn't you download it? What does two-dimensional code mean?" Mr. Gong tried to refresh the web page and click download again, the same thing.
难道网页卡了？龚老师全部退出、彻底重来，结果出现的还是二维码。
Is the web card? Miss Gong all quit, thoroughly re-open, the result is still two-dimensional code.
彻底投降了，龚老师转身求助身旁正在“王者峡谷”流连的女儿。
Surrendering completely, Ms. Gong turned to help her daughter, who was lingering in the "King's Canyon."
女儿抬头瞄了一眼，伸出手指按住那张“无辜”的二维码。
The daughter glanced up and held out her finger at the innocent two-dimensional code.
于是，扫描二维码——开始下载——开始安装——安装成功！龚老师惊叹，“啊，是这样下载啊！”“上课”变“上网”，老师变“学生”龚老师的女儿记得，封城第一天，爸爸就在饭桌上皱眉头，“现在正是二月调考，这段复习很重要，如果不抓紧，这届学生高考很可能要受影响。
So, scanning the two-dimensional code - starting to download - and starting to install it! Gong marveled, "Ah, this is the way to download!" Miss Gong's daughter remembered frowning on the dinner table on the first day of the city.
”事实上，进入二月，为保证学生能够正常学习，多地陆续尝试“停课不停学”等方式，开展网络授课。
In fact, in February, in order to ensure that students can study normally, more and more attempts are being made to "stop learning" and other means of online instruction.
2月17日，教育部开通了“国家网络云课堂”，免费提供初中、普通高中课程学习资源，还包括防疫教育、品德教育及地方教育资源等。
On February 17, the Ministry of Education opened the National Cloud Classroom, which provides free curriculum learning resources for junior and senior high schools, as well as education on epidemic prevention, moral education and local educational resources.
小学阶段课程学习资源，则在中国教育电视台4频道播出，以减少小学生上网时间，并防止网络拥堵。
Learning resources for the primary-school curriculum are broadcast on China Education Television Channel 4 to reduce online time for primary school children and prevent network congestion.
从“上课”到“上网课”，对于不少老师来说都是个新鲜事，也是个重新“学习”的过程。
"Classes" to "Internet classes," for many teachers are a new thing, but also a "learning" process.
“三个字，太难了！”说起最近网络教学的体验，广州市一高中地理老师吴欣，在手机另一端打下了这句话。
"Three words, too difficult!" Referring to the recent experience of online teaching, Wu Xin, a geography teacher in Guangzhou City, made the remark at the other end of the phone.
吴欣首先要学习的，是“用什么软件”。
The first thing Wu Xin has to learn is "what software".
最开始，她尝试了希沃旗下的多种软件，包括做课件的、录课的，又试用了云课堂、QQ视频等6、7个不同软件，最终才决定使用腾讯极速课堂。
In the beginning, she experimented with a variety of software, including courseware and video cassette recorders, as well as Cloud Classroom and QQ Video, before finally deciding to use Tencent Extremely Fast Classrooms.
“各有各的好，主要是因为我们建的那个QQ班群，所以用腾讯的会方便些。
"Each has its own good, mainly because we build that QQ class group, so Tencent will be more convenient.
”而线上教学模式，也给老师“备课”带来了新的挑战。
But the online teaching mode also brings new challenges to the teacher's "lesson preparation."
山东泰安的高三语文老师陈瑶直言自己刚开始有些紧张， 因为她的直播要面向全年级学生，“原来只需要考虑自己班的学生，现在面向全年级，各层次的学生都得兼顾到。
Chen Yao, a senior three-language teacher in Taian, Shandong Province, blurted out that she was nervous at first because her live broadcast was aimed at year-round students.
”陈瑶还记得，上课第一天，天气挺冷， 6点钟，天还黑漆漆的，她就起床了。
Chen Yao remembered the cold weather on the first day of class and getting up at six o'clock when it was still dark.
由于高三学生的课程安排比较紧，那天她的直播课是7点开始。
As the third year of high school students curriculum is relatively tight, that day her live class is 7 o'clock start.
距离上课还有15分钟，陈瑶开始登陆、调试设备、测试网速。
With 15 minutes to go, Chen Yao began to log in, debug equipment and test the speed of the network.
“当时我父母都还没起床，上完课我才发现天亮了。
"I hadn't even gotten up before I realized it was daybreak after class.
”为了使课堂效果更好，老师们还要研究、学习软件的操作技巧。
To make the classroom more effective, teachers also need to study and learn how the software works.
吴欣告诉记者，比如制作线上授课所用的幻灯片课件，“图片可以直接放在课件里，但插入视频播放效果就不好，我通常会另做链接，跳转到其他平台播放视频。
Ms. Wu told reporters, for example, that 'pictures can be placed directly in the courseware, but the insertion of video isn't good,' Ms. Wu told reporters.
”地理课堂上，老师往往需画出洋流走向、地形图等辅助题目讲解，“因为没有黑板，全部是要用电脑操作，一点点画出来。
In geography class, teachers often draw pictures of ocean currents, topography and the like. "Because there is no blackboard, it's all computer-operated, done little by little.
”吴欣说，第一周一堂两小时的课，她做了四个课件，每个20-30页，用了将近一周时间。
During the first week of a two-hour class, Ms. Wu says she made four 20-30 pages each, which took nearly a week.
吴欣告诉记者，由于从来没有试过直播间，对电脑也不是很熟悉，学校里一些年长的老师用起来还是很困难的。
Wu told reporters that because she had never tried the studio and was not very familiar with computers, it was difficult for some senior school teachers to use.
除了教学任务，吴欣作为班主任还有额外的工作：收集学生信息，统计学生身体健康状况并上报学校，在学生群、家长群发布重要通知，查看学生是否准时进入课堂，监督学生上课、作业完成情况。
In addition to her teaching duties, Wu Xin has additional duties as head teacher: collecting student information, keeping statistics on students' physical health and reporting them to schools, publishing important announcements in student groups and parent groups, checking whether students enter the classroom on time, and supervising the completion of students' classes and assignments.
“由线下转为线上授课，各方面难度都增加了。
"Moving from offline to online instruction has made everything more difficult.
”“希沃崩了转腾讯，腾讯也卡跑钉钉”学会了使用网络教学，到了上课时又出现新问题。
"" Xivavalanche Tecent, Tencent card also card tack "learned to use network teaching, to class and new problems.
由于受到软件、网速限制，直播课堂时不时会发生卡顿。
Due to software, speed limit, live class will occasionally happen Carton.
吴欣家附近住着不少学生，如今陆续都开始上直播课了。
Many students live near the Wu Hin family, and now they are beginning to attend live classes.
然而带宽有限，网络堵塞严重，也影响了吴欣在家的直播授课质量。
However, limited bandwidth and network congestion also affected the quality of the live lectures at Wu Xin's home.
网上上课不便板书，教物理的龚老师为了呈现解题过程，会给学生拍图片或者录做题的视频。
Online classes do not facilitate the board book, physical teachers in order to show the process of problem solving, students will take pictures or video tape.
“有时家里网速不好，发得比较慢，就会影响课程进度。
"Sometimes the home network speed is bad, the hair is slower, can affect the course progress.
”在广州一所高中教高三的杨老师告诉记者，面对网络崩溃，他和学生们都已经“跑出经验”。
Yang, who teaches senior three at a high school in Guangzhou, told reporters he and his students had "run out of experience" in the face of the collapse of the internet.
“上课十几天来，希沃后台不断扩容，网络一崩溃，后台就抢修，我们已经崩过两三回了。
"After 10 days of classes, Sheva backstage continued to expand, the network collapsed, backstage rush repairs, we have collapsed two or three times.
”现在，学校老师都会做三手准备，希沃不崩用希沃，希沃崩了转腾讯，腾讯也卡跑钉钉。
Now, school teachers have three hands to prepare, Schivo doesn't collapse with Schivo, Sivuvalanche turns Tecent, Tencent also cards to run nails.
“学生也习惯了，就跟着跑。
"The students got used to it, and ran with them.
”同一时间段内集中上网学习，网络拥堵如何应对？日前，教育部有关负责人答记者问时表示，各地要加大与工信部门及网络运行企业的协调力度，积极争取支持，同时做好分析研判，有针对性地指导“错峰”登录上网。
The Ministry of Education (MOE), responding to questions from the Ministry of Education (MOE), said that all regions should strengthen coordination with industrial and communications departments and network operators, actively seek support, and conduct analysis and research, so as to guide "staggered peak" access to the Internet in a targeted manner.
但是，线上授课也有自身的优点。
But teaching online also has its own advantages.
陈瑶告诉记者，直播平台提供的功能比较多，有些功能是线下授课做不到的，“比如我直播讲完一道题，可以看到学生反馈的实时数据，了解有多少比例的学生还没有听懂。
Chen Yao told reporters that the live broadcast platform provides more functions, some of which can not be taught offline. "For example, I can see the real-time data of the students' feedback when I finish a live broadcast, and know what proportion of the students have not yet understood it.
”学生还可以通过截图、录音、录屏等方式保留课堂内容，“不像在教室里上课，有时没听懂就过了。
Students can also keep class content on screenshots, taped recordings and the like. "Unlike in a classroom, sometimes you don't get it.
”云课堂的批改作业功能也深受老师喜爱，“用app改作业比较方便，橡皮、画笔都有，熟悉软件后改作业快多了。
Cloud classroom criticism function is also loved by teachers, "using app for homework is more convenient, eraser, brush, familiar with the software after much faster homework.
”陈瑶用软件批改学生作业 （图片由受访者提供）高二学生：打了卡再钻回被窝“在家上学”对学生的自律能力也是一大考验。
2007-9-25 21: 48 Senior Two Student: Getting a Card and Getting Back to School at Home is another test of a student's ability to self-discipline.
为了保证“不停学”，学生要打卡考勤证明自己“真的在学习”，考勤的方式也是五花八门。
In order to ensure "continuous learning," students have to card attendance to prove that they are "really learning", the way attendance is also varied.
高中生李子瑜班上的打卡方式是每堂课前在QQ群接龙。
Li Ziyu senior high school class card printing method is before each class in QQ group pick up dragon.
为了对全班42名同学进行考勤，作为班长的李子瑜，要先从长长的接龙中分辨出谁没有出现，并在群里询问情况，随后，还要去直播间对照查询，确认班里同学是否真的有来上课，并记录考勤结果。
For example, Li Tzu-yu, a monitor of the class, had to distinguish between those who did not show up for the class and those who did not. She then went to the TV booth to check whether the class had actually come to the class and to record attendance results.
这基本占用了她所有的课间休息时间，“有时还会耽误按时上课。
This took up most of her recess time, "and sometimes delayed attending classes on time.
”张雨婕是山东一名高二学生，老师要求每天6点40开始晨读，7点前在钉钉群发晨读的照片打卡，但她的晨读时间通常是在被窝里度过的——她会在打卡前5分钟从被窝里爬起来拍照片，再重新钻回被窝，“老师要求拍晨读的全身照，但是我只拍晨读内容的照片，反正查的不严。
Zhang Yujie, a high school sophomore in Shandong province, was required to start reading at 6: 40 am every day and to punch in early morning photos before 7: 00, but her morning reading time was usually spent under the bedclothes - she would get up from bed five minutes before the card and then re-enter the bed.
”打了卡是否意味着真的就在学习呢？张雨婕说，学校第一节课开始较早，有时来不及吃早饭，就会挪到9点40开始的英语课上吃，“因为英语不是直播课”。
Zhang Yujie said the school's first class began early and sometimes moved to an English class at 9: 40 before breakfast, "because English is not a live lesson."
即便是直播课，如果不是喜欢的老师讲，她也会离开课堂，去吃点零食，或者直接将直播课挂在后台，去QQ群跟同学聊天。
Even in live classes, she would leave the classroom to eat snacks, or hang her live lessons backstage, chatting with her classmates in a QQ group, if not a favorite teacher.
上课时，老师会在互动面板中发练习题，以检验学习效果。
In class, the teacher will be in the interactive panel in the exercise to test the results of learning.
但是，互动面板里回答的同学能互相看到答案，第一个答题的同学选什么答案，下面都跟着选。
What is the best title for the passage? Which of the following best states the best title for the passage?
有时候，张雨婕的老师会请同学连麦回答问题，但一般不会点名强制某一位同学连麦，而是鼓励大家自愿回答。
Occasionally, Zhang Yujie's teacher would ask her classmates to answer questions, but generally did not force a classmate to connect with Mai, but encouraged everyone to answer voluntarily.
“因为直播面向全年级，同学们不好意思连麦回答，表现也不太积极。
"Because the live broadcast was year-round, students were too shy to even answer, and they were not very positive.
”湖北的七年级学生刘婧告诉记者：“有的同学会选择不上课或是只上自己感兴趣的课，写作业也会敷衍”。
Liu Jing, a seventh-grade student from Hubei province, told reporters: "Some students choose not to take classes or only attend classes of their own interest.
一天面对电脑7.5小时高中生喊眼累由于需要长时间面对电子屏幕，有不少学生大呼眼睛需要休息。
One day in front of a computer 7.5 hours high school students yelled tired eyes because of the need to face the electronic screen for a long time, many students shouted need rest.
“我现在都没有纸质课本，每天学习八节视频课，还有两节自习，每节课45分钟，一天面对电脑学习至少7.5个小时，眼睛真的很不舒服。
"I don't have a paper textbook, I have eight video lessons a day, I have two self-study sessions of 45 minutes each, and I have at least seven and a half hours of computer learning a day and my eyes are really uncomfortable.
”山东省高一学生王悦对于上课、作业都需在电脑或手机上完成，表示吃不消。
Wang Yue, a senior in Shandong Province, said she couldn't bear to have classes and homework done on a computer or mobile phone.
对此，广州就读高二的李子瑜深有同感，“街上的打印店都关了，资料全是电子版的，一直对着电脑看材料，眼睛太累了。
Plum, a sophomore studying in Guangzhou, felt the same way. "Printing shops in the streets are closed. The materials are all in electronic form.
”学生在朋友圈大呼眼睛受不了但是，对学生而言，线上课程同样有着线下课程提供不了的便利。
Students in a circle of friends yell that they can't stand it, but for students, online classes have the same benefits that offline classes don't.
李子瑜认为，线上上课不会影响学习效果，比在学校学习轻松，“还挺新鲜的。
Li believes that online classes do not affect learning outcomes, are easier to learn than at school, and are "quite new."
”第一周每次课程时长两个小时，她都不会累，反而学得更好。
For the first week she did not get tired, but learned better, for each lesson lasted two hours.
在学校，一堂课只有40分钟，刚听上瘾，下课铃声就响了，而现在课堂时间拉长，思考时间也多了，还可以及时询问老师。
In school, a class of only 40 minutes, just listen to addiction, the bell rang, and now the classroom time is longer, more time to think, but also timely ask the teacher.
王悦学的课程都是老师提前录好的，她可以自主调节学习的节奏。
Ms. Wang's lessons were recorded in advance and she was able to set the pace of her studies on her own.
“我用1.5倍速播放，因为老师语速太慢了，这样可以加强效率。
"I played it 1.5 times because the teacher spoke too slowly, which would improve efficiency.
”她可以及时暂停视频记笔记，也可以听不懂时回放，再慢慢想。
She can pause the video to take notes in time, or play them back when she doesn't understand them, and think slowly.
李子瑜的课程表各种打卡袭来，家长监督压力陡增“快点起床！要上课了。
Plum Yu's curriculum hits a variety of hits, parental supervision pressure increased "get up quickly! Class is about to begin.
”孩子上网课，家长也不轻松。
Parents are not comfortable with online classes for their children.
2月中旬，不少家长陆续复工，可孩子还在家里上网课，一些家长担心孩子一个人在家不自觉，盘算着要请假在家陪娃。
In mid-February, many parents resumed work, but the children were still at home on the Internet classes, some parents worried that the children alone at home unconscious, planning to take time off to accompany them at home.
一位武汉家长和朋友吐槽孩子不认真上课，不禁火冒三丈：“有一次我突击去检查孩子的网课情况，发现她网课是在播放，但是电脑桌面当前窗口显示的却是她的QQ群，原来一群同学正聊得欢，被我当场撞见，孩子也承认没听课。
Wuhan parents and friends spit children do not seriously lessons, can not help but anger: "Once I raided the children's online classes and found that she is playing online, but the desktop window is now showing her QQ group, a group of students was talking Huanhuan, I was caught in the act, the child admitted not to attend classes.
”在家不比学校，学生是否按时听课、是否认真完成作业等情况，老师难以直接知晓，因此监督学生的担子就落到了家长们的肩上。
It is difficult for teachers to know directly whether students attend classes on time or do their homework conscientiously, so the burden of supervision falls on parents.
王悦的妈妈告诉南都周刊记者，老师在家长群里通知家长要进行监督，每天打卡，“但是孩子上课你不能时时刻刻都盯着，再说他们老师建的钉钉群，我根本就不会用。
Wang Yue's mother told Nandu Weekly that the teacher had told his parents to monitor and punch a card every day. "But you can't keep an eye on them all the time in class.
”除了“上课打卡”，还有“作业打卡”、“背诵打卡”、“运动打卡”、“做家务打卡”，打卡方式层出不穷，从较为简单的软件操作，到图文并茂，再到录制视频。
In addition to "clickcard lessons," there are "homework card printing," "recite punch card," "exercise card printing," "do housework card printing," card printing methods, from simple software operation, to graphic and text, to video recording.
微博上不少家长直言要被逼疯了。
Many parents on Weibo say they are going crazy.
王悦每日的打卡任务（图片由受访者提供）2月14日晚，名为“当孩子没有及时完成作业”的松鼠视频吸引了大批网友，截至发稿，播放量已达24万多。
The squirrel video, titled "When the kids don't finish their homework in time," attracted a large number of netizens and had more than 240,000 hits by the end of the day, according to the survey.
视频中孩子的父亲情绪激动，说自己晚上梦到老师围着床站了一圈，问自己要作业，连体育老师也来了。
Video of the child's father emotional, said he dreamed of the night teachers around the bed, asked themselves to do homework, even the physical education teacher came.
“宅家教育也是家庭教育的试金石，现在孩子是自律还是懒散，都看家长了。
"Home schooling is also a touchstone for family education. It's up to parents to decide whether their children are disciplined or lazy.
”广州的杨老师说，孩子在自己身边，自己不管还指望别人管吗？“现在这个情况，必然是优者更优。
Mr. Yang, from Guangzhou, said the child was at his side and didn't care whether he was looking to others for help.
到了高三，家教没做好的话，矛盾更容易爆发，家长、孩子都会很焦虑。
In the third year of high school, home tutoring did not do well, contradictions more easily erupt, parents, children will be very anxious.
”但最让家长担忧的还是孩子的视力健康。
But the biggest concern for parents is their children's visual health.
从早上七点开始，到下午六点左右，除去午饭时间和短暂的课间休息，孩子成天对着手机、电脑、iPad屏幕上课，李睿的家长很担心儿子的视力因此下降，“但愿这种状态不要持续太久。
Starting at 7 a.m. and continuing until about 6 p.m., when the child spent all day studying on a cell phone, computer or iPad screen, apart from lunchtime and a brief recess, Li's parents were worried about the decline in their son's eyesight.
”还有热心家长来支招：买台投影仪将画面投射在墙上，或者将手机和电视同屏，可以有效减少对视力的伤害。
There are also helpful tips: Buy a projector to project a picture onto a wall, or screen your mobile phone with your TV, which can effectively reduce the damage to vision.
（应采访对象要求，文中人物均为化名）来源｜南都周刊END欢迎分享到朋友圈，如想取得授权请邮件：newmedia@nbweekly.com。
less + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + +
如果想找到小南，可以在后台回复「小南」试试看哦~ 。
If you want to find Xiao Nan, you can reply to "Xiao Nan" in the background.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“停课不停学”第一周，老师战网络，家长做噩梦。
During the first week of "non-stop learning," parents had nightmares during the first week of teacher warfare.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "南都周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "“停课不停学”第一周，老师战网络，家长做噩梦";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "线上课程也有着线下课程提供不了的便利";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="南都周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
