寒冬里，百万村庄的线上战役。
In the cold winter, millions of villages fought online.
小李​。
Xiao Li Zheng.
南都周刊                      。
Nandu Weekly.
南都周刊。
Nandu Weekly.
有温度的新媒体。
New media with temperature.
从全国20多个城市的爱心助农，再到与国民餐饮品牌合作的爱心助企，这场聚划算爱心“战役”行动，更像一个“幕后援手”，默默扛起了这场逆战。
From more than 20 cities across the country to the love of the national restaurant brand to help enterprises, this love "campaign" more like a "behind-the-scenes help," quietly shouldering the war.
文 | 小李这个冬天，突出其来的疫情打断了我们的正常生活，全国人民只能被迫宅在家里。
Xiao Li was forced to stay at home this winter as a result of the outbreak that disrupted our normal lives.
在不能出门也不能串门的日子里，买菜做饭成了每家每户的头等大事。
In the days when you can't go out or visit a house, buying and cooking has become a top priority for every family.
犹记得疫情刚暴发的前两天，尽管价格涨得厉害，但超市的蔬菜还是被一抢而空，买菜一度成为了让人发愁的事情。
Judeo remembers that two days before the outbreak of the outbreak, despite the price hikes, supermarket vegetables were snatched up, buying vegetables was once a worry.
殊不知这一边城市居民在发愁买不到新鲜蔬菜，另一边，百万村庄里的农民们也正在经历前所未有的寒冬——一系列封城封村等措施的实施，令商品流通的渠道被阻断，菜品卖不出去，滞销的菜品大量堆积，有的只能烂在菜地里，他们面临着极其惨重的损失。
On the other hand, farmers in millions of villages are experiencing an unprecedented winter - a series of closures and other measures that have disrupted the flow of goods, prevented the sale of vegetables, accumulated large quantities of unmarketable vegetables, or were left to rot in vegetable fields, and faced enormous losses.
“终于能睡个好觉了”“每年的春节前后正是果子销售的旺季，我们辛苦一年就指望着这时候能够有所收获”，陕西省武功县的农户校煜说道，“但今年，因为果子卖不出去，我已经连续失眠好几天了……”陕西省咸阳市武功县是全国猕猴桃的主要产地之一。
"Every year around the Spring Festival is the peak season of fruit sales, we expect to harvest hard a year," said Wu Gong County, Shaanxi Province, "but this year, because the fruit can not sell, I have been insomnia for several days..."
校煜所在的南仁健康果业专业合作社每年年产猕猴桃八百万斤，产值超过2500万元，而春节则是每年被寄予厚望的销售时段。
Nanren Health Fruit Co-operative where the school Yuyu annual production of eight million kiwi, output value of more than 25 million yuan, and Spring Festival is high expectations of the sales period.
本来在年前，合作社已经和果商签订好了2.8元/斤徐香猕猴桃收购价格，春节出货。
Originally in the year before, the cooperative and fruit merchants have signed 2.8 yuan / Jin Xu Xiang kiwi purchase price, Spring Festival shipments.
但是由于疫情影响，水果批发市场关门无法营业，签订的猕猴桃收购协议无法正常履行，又没有新的客商来收购，目前果子已经开始变软，货架期大大缩短，最终只能以1元/斤的价格贱卖，损失非常惨重。
However, as a result of the epidemic, the wholesale fruit market closed, the signing of kiwifruit purchase agreement could not be carried out properly, and no new customers to buy it, fruit has begun to soften, shelf life has been greatly reduced, can only be sold at 1 yuan / catty price, very heavy losses.
“往年总体收益还是不错的，虽然每年有盈亏，但是确实没有遭受过这么大的损失，这次疫情对我们的损失真的是太大了。
"The overall gains of the past year have been good, and while there have been annual gains and losses, it's true that we haven't suffered as much, and the losses from this outbreak are really too great for us.
目前还有200多万斤猕猴桃无法找到销路，如果再找不到销路，就只能等着腐烂变质，血本无归了。
At present, there is no market for more than 2 million catties of kiwifruit, if no market can be found, will have to wait for rot, no return.
”销售无门使得盼了一年的收获变成了奢望，看着堆积的猕猴桃，校煜感到失望又无助。
"No way to make the hope of a year's harvest into extravagant hope, looking at the pile of kiwi, school feel disappointed and helpless.
线下销售遇冷，那线上呢？2017年，校煜开始在淘宝开网店，“当时没有什么经验，在阿里小二的指导下慢慢摸索，买我们果子的大部分都是回头客，因为我们的果子好吃。
In 2017, school Yu started to open shop in Taobao, "there was no experience, under the guidance of Ali penis grope slowly, most of our fruit is bought back, because our fruit is delicious.
”这时候，校煜想起了天天被大家挂在嘴边的“万能的淘宝”，但这个念头一闪而过，特殊时期有太多不便，连快递都发不出去，线上渠道也相当于断了。
"At this time, school Yu was reminded of the daily hanging in the mouth of" all-purpose Taobao, "but this idea flashed by, the special period too inconvenient, even express can not send out, the online channel is equivalent to a break.
就在校煜感到绝望之际，阿里的小二找到了他——聚划算开启了爱心助农项目，设有单独的活动页面专门帮助农民卖出滞销的产品。
As he was feeling desperate at school, Ali's penis found him - a good deal of money to start the love of farmers with a separate page dedicated to help farmers sell unmarketable products.
这么一来，校煜原本担心的事情也就不复存在，淘宝不仅可以帮忙协调好物流，还能通过电商平台进一步拓宽水果的销售渠道。
In this way, the school Yu was worried about things no longer exist, Taobao can not only help coordinate good logistics, but also through the electric business platform to further expand fruit sales channels.
堆积的猕猴桃通过聚划算爱心助农活动一下卖了出去，价格也回升到了正常水平。
Accumulated kiwi peaches were sold through a love-driven activity, and prices recovered to normal levels.
感动之余，这也让校煜重燃了希望，“之前觉得今年就这样完了，因为果子卖不出去，已经很长时间睡不好觉了，心里压力确实太大了。
In addition, this also let the school re-ignited hope, "I thought this year is finished, because the fruit can not sell out, has not slept for a long time, the pressure is really too big.
这下终于能睡个好觉了。
It's time for a good night's sleep.
”3天卖空600吨果蔬“我要给三亚芒果点个大大的赞！为什么呢？第一，三亚位于北纬18度，冬季平均气温24℃，是最适合芒果的生长气候；第二，我们三亚芒果品种好，有贵妃、台农、水仙等。
First, Sanya is located 18 degrees north latitude, with an average temperature of 24 degrees in winter, which is the most suitable growing climate for mango. Second, we have good mango varieties in Sanya, such as imperial concubine, Tainan and narcissus.
我现在拿的是水仙，你们看，皮薄、肉厚、汁多，而且富含维生素A和维生素C……”听这专业术语，你可能以为是某个网红在专业带货。
Now I'm taking daffodils, you see, thin, thick, juicy, and rich in vitamin A and vitamin C. "Listen to the technical term, you might think that some net-red is in professional delivery.
其实这是三亚市长阿东在淘宝直播上为农民带货，希望通过网络销售帮助受疫情影响的农民增加收入。
In fact, this is Sanya City Governor Adong Taobao live for farmers to bring goods, hope to help farmers affected by the epidemic through network sales to increase their income.
在三亚市的一个芒果种植园区内，阿东对着直播镜头，从树上摘下一个大芒果，与淘宝官方主播互动推介三亚芒果。
In a mango plantation area in Sanya, Adon takes a large mango from a tree and interacts with Taobao's official anchor to promote Sanya Mango.
在阿东教科书式的直播中，地理、生物知识信手拈来，不少网友被圈粉的同时还被种草了三亚芒果。
In the live broadcast of A Dong schoolbook style, geography, biology knowledge is handy, many netizens are encircled by pollination while also being sown Sanya mango.
芒果在三亚市种植面积约40万亩，是三亚的特色水果之一。
Mango cultivation in Sanya city area of about 400,000 mu, is one of the characteristics of Sanya fruit.
换做平时，三亚芒果不愁销路。
In other words, Sanya Mango will not be sold.
但今年受疫情影响，大量芒果无法售出，积压在农民手中。
But this year a large number of mangoes could not be sold due to the epidemic and accumulated in the hands of farmers.
刘冠男所在的合作社是甘福园天猫旗舰店的供货商，公司有50人左右，拥有3000多平方米的仓库，承包了100亩水果基地，年产值5000万左右。
Liu Guanmen's cooperative is the supplier of the flagship store of Gansu Garden Tiancat. The company has about 50 people, owns more than 3000 square meters of warehouse and has contracted 100 mu fruit base with an annual output value of about 50 million.
“本想着今年好好做海南的芒果，但由于疫情影响，海南贵妃芒滞销，疫情刚开始的时候还有收购商来当地采购芒果，后面情况越来越严重，收购商也不来了，水果开始慢慢腐烂，家里的生计就靠这些水果……”眼看着水果无人问津，损失惨重，刘冠男背地里不知道流了多少次眼泪，愁得整夜难以入眠。
"I would like to do Hainan mango this year, but due to the impact of the epidemic, Mangwen Hainan buyers came to buy mango, more and more serious situation in the beginning of the epidemic, the buyer did not come, fruit slowly began to rot, the family livelihood depends on these fruits.
疫请突发带来连锁反应，原产地瓜果严重滞销，而农产品滞销持续放大的结果是价值归零后农民的损失，另一方面，消费者需求也无法得到满足。
Epidemic please bring chain reaction, origin melon and fruit serious unmarketable, and agricultural products continue to magnify the loss of farmers after value zero, on the other hand, consumer demand can not be met.
在得知这个情况后，阿里巴巴紧急联系了当地政府，迅速集集团之力驰援海南，希望帮助村民销售处滞销的水果。
After learning of the situation, Alibaba contacted the local government and quickly assembled a group to help Hainan, hoping to help villagers sell unsold fruit.
与天猫商家甘福园旗舰店沟通后，团队连夜搭建聚划算爱心助农团队，“1天就帮我卖出了8万多斤芒果，我心里真的是很开心”，解决了大问题，挽回了本无望挽回的损失，刘冠男打心眼儿里感激这次活动。
After communicating with the flagship store of Gansu Garden, the team built a team of caring farmers to help me sell more than 80,000 jin of mangoes in one day. I was really happy in my heart.
在这样的情况下，2月5日，甘福园天猫旗舰店又向武汉捐赠了价值30万余元的60吨新鲜蔬菜，并表示愿意为疫情防控提供进一步支持。
In this context, on February 5, Gansu Yuan Tiantong store donated 60 tons of fresh vegetables to Wuhan, worth more than 300,000 yuan, and offered further support for the prevention and control of the disease.
“我们作为他的供应商真的觉得农人和农业企业都很不容易”，经历这次震荡，刘冠男深感不易，“我想等疫情结束的那天，一定要告诉身边的朋友，有好的东西要分享，有滞销的农产品找聚划算爱心助农！”为破解当前蔬菜瓜果销售的困局，聚划算爱心助农活动目前已经紧急疏通了全国20个城市的销售，与天猫生鲜、数字农业、淘宝吃货、菜鸟政府事务部等多职能部门联合助农，深入瓜果的原产地，解决了产能、运力、销售等困难，截止目前，爱心助农项目销售量超过3万吨。
"We as his suppliers feel that farmers and agricultural enterprises are not easy." Liu Guanmen experienced this shock, "I want to tell friends around the end of the epidemic, there are good things to share, there are good things to share, good agricultural products to help farmers!
大厨上线“云开小灶”因为疫情无法出门，大家宅在家中，很多想做的事都没法完成。
Chef on-line "small cloud cooker" because the epidemic situation can not go out, everyone at home, many want to do things can not be done.
前几天，有网友发起了一个关于“疫情结束后最想做什么”的投票，而出去下一次馆子成为了很多吃货的愿望，吃火锅更是在众多选项中遥遥领先。
A few days ago, some netizens launched a vote on "What do you want to do when the epidemic is over," and eating out next time has become a desire for food.
但事实上，疫情除了导致农产品滞销外，就连小龙坎、西贝等知名餐饮品牌也面临着惨重损失。
But in fact, in addition to the epidemic results in agricultural products unmarketable, even Xiaolongkan, Xibei and other well-known restaurant brands are facing heavy losses.
顾客鲜少出门、门店暂停营业导致收入停滞，员工工资、店铺租金等大量费用持续支出，让这些企业经受巨大损失；而大家长久隔离在家无法上馆子，也开始想念饭店大厨的手艺，萌生了疫情结束“下馆子搓一顿”的愿望。
Customers rarely go out, shops are closed leading to stagnant incomes, workers wages, shop rental and other large expenses continue to incur huge losses, and people have long been isolated at home unable to eat, also began to miss the hotel kitchen skills, the end of the outbreak of "eating out" desire.
没想到就在2月16日晚上，这些饭店大厨真的出现了！来自西贝莜面村、新雅粤菜馆、眉州东坡酒楼、小龙坎等国民餐饮品牌的主厨聚集在聚划算直播间里，进行了一场“云主厨开小灶”的直播，线上还原主厨们在疫情期间的普通居家生活。
I didn't expect that on the night of Feb. 16, these restaurant chefs really showed up! Chefs from the Xibei naked oats village, Xinya Cantonese restaurant, Mei Zhou Dongpo Restaurant, Xiaolongkan and other national food brands gathered in a budget studio for a live broadcast of "Cloud Chef Cookies" to restore the chef's ordinary home life during the epidemic.
这下大家才发现，原来大厨们也是会买速食半成品的！利用速食半成品和简单的辅料也能做出美味的菜肴。
It turns out that chefs also buy ready-to-eat semi-finished products, which can be made with ready-to-eat and simple accessories.
除了进行厨艺技能的分享，主厨们还分别教授了镇店菜品的独门烹饪方法，而需要用到的底料和半成品等“主厨同款”则可以在淘宝旗舰店打包买齐，让我们足不出户也可以利用网购食材进行美食创作。
In addition to sharing skills, chefs teach unique cooking methods for town cuisine, and chefs such as chefs and semi-finished products can be packed and bought at Taobao's flagship stores, allowing us to create food online without leaving their homes.
聚划算聚集起多个国民牵挂的餐饮大品牌，发起的这场“云主厨开小灶”直播活动，不仅让大家学到了大厨们的“独门秘籍”，在家也能轻松吃到美味大餐，同时也让本来被迫歇业的餐饮品牌“云”营业，在一定程度上缓解了餐饮企业的仓储和资金压力，为他们提供了转型新思路。
The launch of the "Cloud Chef Cookies" live broadcast has not only enabled us to learn the secrets of the chef, but also made the restaurant brand Cloud, which was forced out of business, somewhat relieved the storage and capital pressure of catering companies and provided them with new ideas for transformation.
这场疫情中暖胃又暖心的“战役”，以创新的合作方式给原本步履维艰的餐饮企业带来了更多的机会和可能性，暖了消费者的胃，也暖了厨师之心。
The battle to warm the stomach and warm the heart of the epidemic has brought more opportunities and possibilities to the struggling restaurant enterprises in innovative ways, warming the stomachs of consumers and the hearts of cooks.
从全国20多个城市的爱心助农，再到与国民餐饮品牌合作的爱心助企，这场聚划算爱心“战役”行动，更像一个“幕后援手”，默默扛起了这场逆战，在这个寒冬里不仅为百万村庄送去了温暖，在保障了民生需求的同时，也为停滞营业的企业缓解了压力。
From loving farmers in more than 20 cities around the country to caring companies working with national food brands, the campaign is more like a "behind-the-scenes helping hand", quietly shouldering the war, bringing warmth to millions of villages in the cold winter and relieving pressure on businesses that have stagnated.
在这个特殊的时期，我们的日常生活似乎都多多少少笼罩在时代这粒沉重的灰尘下。
At this particular time, our daily life seems to be more or less under the heavy dust of the times.
每天醒来先打开疫情的最新消息，紧张地关注着新增病例的数字，咳嗽几声就害怕得一天测好几次体温，不知什么时候才能摘下厚重的口罩，呼吸一口新鲜空气……时间的车轮在不停地向前滚动，我们的生活却好像停滞了，前方黑漆漆的。
Every morning we wake up with the latest news of the epidemic, watch nervously the number of new cases, cough a few times a day to measure the temperature, do not know when to take off a heavy mask, take a breath of fresh air... The wheel of time keeps rolling forward, but our lives seem to be stagnating, dark ahead.
痛苦总是与希望并存。
Pain always goes with hope.
疫情期间固然有很多困难和不便，但就像医护人员仍然奋战在一线救治着数以万计的病人，这是他们的“战役”；而本来用不惯线上购物的爸妈开始用饿了么“云逛”超市买菜，滞销的农产品通过聚划算的线上平台而卖空，遭受重创的老牌餐饮企业也正在新的带动下开拓新的模式，越来越多的企业选择钉钉线上办公，大家也更依赖数字化的生活方式和工作方式，这是我们的“战役”。
While there are many difficulties and inconveniences during the epidemic, it is their "battle" that health-care workers are still fighting to treat tens of thousands of patients on the frontline, while parents who are not used to shopping online are starting to starve. Battered food companies are opening up new models, and more and more businesses are relying on digital lifestyles and ways of working.
正如能力越大，责任越大，拥有中国最大的电商平台，业务范围囊括电商、金融、物流配送等多个方面，阿里巴巴集团多个产品线的联动为这次爱心助农助企活动奠定了坚实的基础。
Just as the greater the capacity, the greater the responsibility, China's largest electric business platform, the scope of business including electricity business, finance, logistics and distribution, Alibaba Group of a number of product lines of the linkage for this love to help agricultural enterprise activities laid a solid foundation.
一直以来，聚划算团队都非常注重农业供应链的升级改造，不断探索农业营销的新模式，此前他们就曾多次跟农业大基地合作开展助农活动，对于他们来说，这是一件长期且持续的行动。
For a long time, the agglomeration teams have paid much attention to the upgrading of the agricultural supply chain and have been exploring new models of agricultural marketing.
因此他们能够在这场“爱心行动”的第一时间迅速反应，伸出援手，是始于责任，基于能力，成于效率，这是阿里的“战役”。
So it was Ali's "battle" that they were able to respond quickly and reach out to them in the first place, starting with responsibility, based on ability and efficiency.
当我们仔细看时，就会发现，在黑漆漆的前方，仍然有勇敢的逆行者，有开着私家车接送医生的爱心志愿者，有身处战“疫”一线给医生护士送热饭的商家，也有紧急驰援农民和企业的聚划算爱心战疫行动……而这些便是闪烁在灰暗中的点点微光。
When we look closely, we see that there are still brave rebels in the dark ahead, loving volunteers who drive their doctors in private cars, businessmen who deliver hot meals to doctors and nurses on the frontline of the epidemic, and merciful epidemics that rush to help farmers and businesses... and these are just a few glimmers of gray.
我们相信，当微光汇聚，一定能够冲散时代这粒沉重的灰。
We believe that when the light converges, we will be able to wash away the heavy ashes of our time.
END欢迎分享到朋友圈。
END welcomes you to share with friends.
如果想找到小南，可以在后台回复「小南」试试看哦~ 。
If you want to find Xiao Nan, you can reply to "Xiao Nan" in the background.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
寒冬里，百万村庄的线上战役。
In the cold winter, millions of villages fought online.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "南都周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "寒冬里，百万村庄的线上战役";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; in a million villages in the winter.
var msg_desc = "我们相信，当微光汇聚，一定能够冲散时代这粒沉重的灰。
var msg _ desc = & quot; we believe that when the lights come together, they must be able to wash away the heavy ashes of our time.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="南都周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
