强制搬家、高价续租、免租难落实…疫情期间长租公寓平台的争议。
Forced relocation, high-priced renewal, rent-free difficult to implement... during the outbreak of the long-lease apartment platform controversy.
谢婵薛雨霏。
Xue Yuefei, Xie Chan.
南都周刊                      。
Nandu Weekly.
南都周刊。
Nandu Weekly.
有温度的新媒体。
New media with temperature.
新冠肺炎疫情来势汹涌，波及了人们生活的方方面面。
The outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia has been rampant, affecting all aspects of people's lives.
长租公寓市场的两家头部企业：蛋壳和自如，先后被推上了风口浪尖。
Long-rent apartment market of two head enterprises: eggshells and ease, have been pushed on the wind wave tip.
文 | 谢婵 薛雨霏编辑 | 沈小山新冠肺炎疫情来势汹涌，波及了人们生活的方方面面。
Xie Yuefei, editor and assistant, has seen a surge of new cases of pneumonia at Shen Hill, affecting every aspect of life.
长租公寓市场的两家头部企业：蛋壳和自如，先后被推上了风口浪尖。
Long-rent apartment market of two head enterprises: eggshells and ease, have been pushed on the wind wave tip.
蛋壳：疫情期间强制让租客搬家满岛差点被逼搬家了。
Egg shell: Forced relocation of tenants to the island during the outbreak was almost forced to move.
2月16日那天，蛋壳公寓的管家通知她，房东20号要收房，她得搬走。
On February 16, the housekeeper of the eggshell apartment informed her that the landlord, No. 20, was closing the house and that she had to move out.
搬家一点也不现实，他们暂未回到租住城市。
Moving is not practical at all. They have not returned to the city for a while.
疫情闹得人心惶惶，各个小区早已是是封闭状态，能往哪里搬呢？满岛租的这间房子原本签订了一年合同，如今才过去半年。
The outbreak has rattled the community, which is already closed, where can it be moved? The house, which was rented on the island for a year, is only half a year old.
按照合同，她提出平台违约需要赔付自己一个月房租。
Under the contract, she claimed one month's rent for breach of contract.
管家以“疫情原因不属于我司违约”为由拒绝了。
The housekeeper refused on the grounds that "the cause of the outbreak is not our breach of contract."
管家提出会代劳搬家，全程录像，她希望对方必须保证“物品要保管好，如果有丢失要负责”。
The housekeeper offered to move the house on behalf of the family and made a video recording of the whole trip.
对方也拒绝了。
The other side refused, too.
与管家几次协商未果，她开始在各种业主群里求助，希望能找到房东与房东商量。
After several unsuccessful negotiations with the housekeeper, she turned to various owners for help and sought advice from the landlord.
直到联系上房东，她才意识到差点被蛋壳忽悠了。
It was not until she contacted the landlord that she realized that she was almost tricked by the shell.
房东告诉她，自己并未提出收房，而是被蛋壳提出了单方面解约。
The landlord told her that she did not propose to close the house, but was put forward by the eggshell unilateral cancellation.
房东也让她宽心，答应她就算与蛋壳解约了她也可以继续住在这里，至少不会在疫情期间赶她走。
The landlord reassured her that she could live here even if she broke her egg shell, at least not during the outbreak.
满岛的遭遇并非个例。
The experience of Manchu is not alone.
房东大伟迟迟没有收到他的租金。
The landlord, David, was slow to receive his rent.
客服告诉他，对方租户已经准备搬走了。
The customer service told him that the other tenant was ready to move.
2月12号这天下午，他原本是打算去给房子换锁。
On the afternoon of the 12th of February, he had intended to go and change the lock on the house.
去之前给租户张然打了电话确认——之前因为修理等琐事，他们互留了电话。
Zhang Ran called the tenant to confirm before he went - they had left phone calls to each other over trivia such as repairs.
电话那头的张然懵了，他已经支付了这月房租，近期也没有任何退租和转租的需求。
Zhang Ren on the other end of the phone, he has paid this month's rent, and there is no need to rent or sublet in the near future.
此后是漫长的维权，大伟已经疲倦了，“（蛋壳）不知道换了多少人打电话(给我)，每个人都有不同说法。
Since then there has been a long advocacy, David has tired, "(eggshell) do not know how many people call (to me), everyone has a different story.
”大伟告诉记者，到后来，工作人员已经不承认之前提过的“租客主动提出解约”一说。
"David told reporters that by then, the staff had not acknowledged the previous" tenant offered to cancel the contract "said.
事情不仅没有解决，蛋壳的工作人员反而提起希望大伟能免掉一个月的房租，并说租客可以去申请免交房租。
Instead of solving the problem, eggshell workers raised hopes that David would avoid paying his rent for a month and said tenants could apply for rent-free.
“房客能申请到免租，我们也就算了，毕竟疫情原因，但如果他们不给房客免，那肯定我们也不免的。
"We'll let the tenants apply for rent-free, after all, but if they don't let the tenants out, we're sure we can't help it.
”张然去软件上找了好一会免租申请，最后只提交了免去四个月服务费的申请——这是他找到的唯一一个补偿申请。
Zhang went to the software for a long time to apply for rent-free, and finally submitted only a four-month waiver of his service fee -- the only compensation he ever found.
疫情之下，房东们应该收到的租金迟迟未到，租客们按期缴费仍面临被清走的风险。
Under the epidemic, landlords should receive the rent late arrival, tenants on schedule to pay still face the risk of being cleared.
(张然提交的补偿申请)蛋壳租客并未享受到免租政策“蛋壳公寓房主维权超话”里聚集了大批房东，与大伟遭遇类似，称未收到1月份的房租。
Egg shell tenants do not benefit from the rent-free policy "Egg shell homeowners speak out" by gathering a large number of landlords, similar to David, who said they had not received their January rent.
部分业主称，此前蛋壳曾联系他们，以疫情为由要求强制减免一个月房租。
Some owners said they had been contacted by eggshells to demand a mandatory one-month rent reduction on the grounds of the outbreak.
除此之外，相关维权超话里，也有大量爆料指出，蛋壳公寓曾强制要求武汉地区业主免租3个月，但免租优惠并未落实到租户头上，大部分租户只领到一张免租十天的券。
Apart from this, there are numerous reports that egg-shell apartments used to force owners in Wuhan to rent-free for three months, but the rent-free concessions have not been extended to tenants, most of whom only receive a rent-free ten-day coupon.
此前，蛋壳曾提出，为无法返城的武汉租客返还一个月房租，为其它各城市租客根据各地政府发布的因疫情延期返工的天数，返还租客相对应的租金，或提供相对应的免费延住天数。
Previously, egg shells had offered to return one month's rent to Wuhan tenants who could not return to the city, and to other city tenants to return rent corresponding to the number of days that the local government had issued to postpone rework due to the outbreak, or to provide a corresponding number of days of free extension.
（蛋壳近期退租难的问题同样引租户不满）2月2日，房东小爱被同事提醒，蛋壳管家开始陆续联系房东让他们把一个月的房租免掉。
Landlord Eyre was reminded by her co-workers on Feb. 2 that eggshell housekeepers began contacting landlords to let them avoid paying their rent for one month.
她原以为因为假期原因，收入会延迟到账，没想到是不会到账。
She had thought that because of the holiday, income would be delayed until the account, did not expect to be the account.
小爱每月都要还房贷，自己2月的房租还是借钱付的。
Love to pay the monthly mortgage, their own February rent or to borrow money to pay.
她只好多次拨打客服电话和12345，可惜之后的五天里对方一直没有给他答复。
She had to make numerous calls to the service and 12345, but for the next five days she did not receive a reply.
通过小区物业和居委会，小爱辗转联系到自己的租户。
Through the neighborhood property and neighborhood committee, small love toss and turn to their tenants.
这位湖南小伙年初六就回到了北京，一直呆在家里，还给小爱看了他的缴费记录。
The Hunan boy returned to Beijing on the sixth day of the year, staying at home and showing off his payment record.
在深圳租房的菲菲早就将2月份的房租交给了蛋壳管家，但平台不仅没有把这笔钱给她的房东，甚至连1月的水、电、燃气也没有结清。
Feifei, who rents houses in Shenzhen, already gave her February rent to her shell housekeeper, but the platform did not give the money to her landlord, even in January's water, electricity and gas.
房东只好通知他们将会在2月14日停水停电，在3月6日收房，并提醒他们换房一定要提前找客服协助。
The landlord had to inform them that they would be out of water and electricity on February 14, close on March 6, and remind them to seek help from the customer service ahead of time.
（蛋壳未给房东结清2月租金和1月水电燃费）2月15日，菲菲的房东已经去现场解约，并告知他们会有人联系相关事宜。
(Egg shells don't clear the landlord for February rent and utilities) On February 15, Fifi's landlord went to the site to cancel the contract and told them that someone would contact her.
但至今这些人不在深圳的租客仍然没有接到蛋壳的联系，“其实我们还是想跟房东签，现在因为疫情也不敢回深圳，搬不了，换也麻烦，但也没办法了。
But so far the tenants who are not in Shenzhen have not received egg shell contact. "In fact, we still want to sign with the landlord, because of the epidemic situation also dare not go back to Shenzhen, can not move, change trouble, but there is no way.
”维权的十天里，部分北京业主包括小爱陆续接到了东城住建委的电话，表示已联合市场监管等相关部门约谈蛋壳，要求其必须按合同规定15个工作日内付款。
Over the past 10 days, some Beijing property owners, including Xiao Ai, have received calls from the Dongcheng residence committee saying they have interviewed eggshell companies, including marketing authorities, and asked them to pay within 15 working days of the contract.
然而2月8日，蛋壳客服换了个手机号，继续打给小爱索要免租期，并在小爱问起工号时回复“要这个干什么”，而后强行挂断电话。
On Feb. 8, however, the eggshell customer changed his cell phone number and continued to call Ai for a rent-free period.
2月10日，业主们又等来蛋壳单方面提出的“花式解约”话术：不仅不赔偿违约金，还要拿押金来抵本月的房租，家电也要全部拉走。
On Feb. 10, homeowners are waiting for their eggshells to cancel their contracts. Not only will they not be reimbursed for breach of contract, but they will also have to pay a deposit to cover their rent this month.
小爱不同意这样的解约条件，选择走法务，但至今仍没有动静。
Love did not agree to such conditions, choose to take the legal affairs, but so far has not moved.
许多蛋壳房东都在2月10日那天收到了平台的短信，“......大难当前，蛋壳一直在行动，虽然退租和空置压力持续增长，我们依然第一时间出台了针对全体租客的租金返还政策。
Many eggshell landlords received text messages from the platform on Feb. 10, saying, "... the eggshell has been on the move, and while rent refunds and vacancy pressures continue to grow, we have for the first time put in place a rent refund policy for all tenants.
同时，客服人员也在积极跟各位房东联系，寻求大家的免租期支持，支持租客同时也支持蛋壳能度过当前难关。
At the same time, the customer service personnel are actively contacting the landlords to seek rent-free support, support tenants and support eggshells through the current difficulties.
”（蛋壳公寓发给房东的短信）这则以亲爱的房东开头的短信里同时提到，近期网传蛋壳公寓“套路房东”纯属谣言。
"(Text message from eggshell apartment to landlordThis text message, which begins with a dear landlord, also mentions the recent rumour that eggshell apartments are" routine landlords. "
但在“蛋壳公寓房主维权超话”，依旧有大量房东说出自己的遭遇，希望得到网络关注，为自己维权。
But in the "egg shell apartment owner rights ultra-words," there are still a large number of landlords who tell their stories, hope to get online attention, for their rights.
在连日不断的指控声中，蛋壳公寓于2月17日发布了《致广大房东的真心话》，称因疫情突发正值春节假期，客服中心无法正常运转，导致平台和房东之间缺乏沟通。
Amid repeated allegations, the eggshell apartment on February 17 issued a "heartfelt message to landlords" that customer service centers could not function properly due to the outbreak of the Spring Festival, resulting in a lack of communication between the platform and the landlord.
在这份回应中，蛋壳也提到“向房东寻求的免租期爱心支持，用于对租客进行补贴”。
In the response, the eggshell also referred to "rent-free, compassionate support from landlords to subsidise tenants."
被困住的自如租客：无奈高价续租2月3日，刚从江苏老家回到北京的大钱接到了来自自如管家的电话。
Feb. 3, 2008 A man who had just returned to Beijing from his native Jiangsu province received a phone call from a comfortable housekeeper.
她所租的房子将在二月底到期，管家是来询问她是否要续租。
Her rented house was due to expire at the end of February, and the housekeeper came to inquire if she wanted to renew it.
原本准备月底搬回江苏的大钱，现在因为疫情有了“无法搬家”的顾虑。
The money originally intended to move back to Jiangsu at the end of the month is now "unable to move" because of the outbreak.
如果租房到期前不把东西搬走，自如就会更换电子密码锁，房子里面大钱的东西也会被丢掉。
If you don't move things away before the end of the lease, you can replace the electronic password lock, and the big money in the house will be thrown out.
然而目前快递进不了小区、人出小区需要开证明、开车的话高速公路可能不通······当她提及这时候续约是否有优惠时，管家却表示没有优惠，并且她的月租会从4390涨到4790，给出的原因则是“哎你们小区的主卧真的太贵啦”。
However, at present, express delivery can not enter the community, people out of the district need to issue a certificate, the word highway may not be available when she mentioned that the extension of the contract at this time, the butler said there is no discount, and her monthly rent will increase from 4,390 to 4790, giving the reason: "Well, the master bedroom is too expensive."
大钱不是唯一一个被通知房租要涨的自如租客，2月10日，“自如”二字上了热搜。
Big money is not the only tenant to be informed that the rent will rise easily, February 10, the word "freely" on the hot search.
许多租客在社交平台上放出跟自如管家的聊天记录，称自如趁租客不便搬家换租，续租租金普遍上涨10%~30%。
Many tenants have chat records with homely housekeepers on social platforms, claiming that rentals generally increase by 10% to 30% when tenants are unable to move.
除租金外，自如还会收取房租的10%作为服务费，其中包括清洁、搬家、维修等服务。
In addition to the rent, 10 per cent of the rent will be charged for services, including cleaning, moving, maintenance, etc.
但大钱家门口的保洁记录表却显示，保洁员已经超过一个月没有上门服务。
But a record sheet on the front door shows that cleaners have been out of house for more than a month.
（大钱家门口的自如客保洁记录表）受疫情影响，无法及时返回租房是常态，面对房租不同程度的上涨，不少租客只能无奈续约。
Due to the epidemic situation, it is normal to be unable to return to rental housing in time. Many tenants have to renew their tenancies in the face of varying levels of rent increases.
大四的小洁从去年11月开始在杭州实习，实习期为时3个月。
Xiaojie, a senior, began an internship in Hangzhou last November, lasting three months.
初入社会的她在自如上找房子。
She was at ease looking for a house on her way into society.
管家告诉她短期租房要至少6个月，并承诺等3个月小洁实习结束后，一定帮小洁把房子转租出去，不会继续扣小洁的房租。
Housekeeper told her that short-term rental should be at least 6 months, and promised to wait 3 months after the end of Xiaojie internship, will help Xiaojie sublet the house, will not continue to withhold clean rent.
然而3个月后，小洁还是被扣了2月份的房租。
Three months later, however, Jie was still being held back from her February rent.
并且因为山东老家交通停摆，杭州滨江区也不允许租户进入，现在只能靠网络维权为自己发声。
And because Shandong native traffic stops, Hangzhou Binjiang District also does not allow tenants to enter, now can only rely on network rights for their voice.
（自如管家推荐小洁办贷款来缴房租）在北京工作的夏冰还滞留在老家，房子还有5天到期。
The summer ice, which works in Beijing, is still at home, with five days to go before it expires.
她问了续租价格，159每日，比之前上涨了23.2％--刚租这套房子的时候，价格还是129每日。
She asked about the renewal price, 159 which was 23.2% higher than before - 129 daily when the flat was first rented.
老家的公众交通全停了，回北京唯一的办法是去临近省市的机场。
The public transportation in my hometown has stopped completely. The only way to get back to Beijing is to go to the airports near the provinces and cities.
若在往常，父母还能开车送一下她，但当下，她的父母都是一线医务人员，没空开车送她去隔壁省的机场，也没办法回北京搬家。
Normally, her parents would be able to give her a ride, but for now, her parents are front-line medical workers, unable to drive her to the airport in the next province or to move back to Beijing.
夏冰主动问了管家，管家同意将房租按照最近一次的标准续约。
Xia Bing volunteered to ask the housekeeper, who agreed to renew the rent according to the most recent standard.
但未提及减免2月份服务费一事。
No mention was made of the February fee waiver.
夏冰未做过多纠缠，想着等决定了回程日期再问减免服务费一事。
Summer ice did not do too much entanglement, think of the return date decided to ask relief service charges.
疫情期间自如的各种优惠落实了吗？2月10日，自如CEO熊林在朋友圈回复：自如客户续约价格出现大的波动是极个例情况，主要原因有两个，一是客户从长租变更为月租或季租(租金包含了服务费)，二是房源价格显著低于同地段、同小区类似房源价格；同一天，一篇名为《自如推短续优惠活动，用户：已用优惠，价格实惠》的文章在网上流传，里面提到：当租客出现2月14日前无法返程、合同到期前无法搬家等情况时，有短续1个月需求的，可在续约前联系自如管家并提供相关证明，管家会协助申请短续优惠。
2007-09-19 15: 19 2008-12-10 09: 55: 09 Fluctuations in customer renewal prices are exceptional, mainly due to changes in the customer's long-term lease to monthly or seasonal rent (which includes service charges), and a short one-month resale price before renewal.
北京的自如客何逸看见文章之后再次拨通了（自如）管家的电话，管家向她确认了优惠活动是存在的，但由于她已经续约，无法享受这一优惠。
After seeing the article she dialed the housekeeper again, who assured her that the offer existed but could not take advantage of it because she had renewed it.
她心里想，难道这个酌情减免的优惠政策是瞒着所有员工突然间推行出来的吗？几天前，她曾在电话里反反复复问管家，疫情期间是否有优惠政策或者有这方面的考虑，管家一直回复她：“我们目前没有任何政策”。
Did this discretionary relief come suddenly, she wondered, without the knowledge of all her employees? A few days earlier, she had repeatedly asked the housekeeper by telephone whether she had any preferential policies or considerations during the outbreak, and the housekeeper had replied, "We have no policy at the moment."
管家也举出了自如的难处：“重大疫情之下，我们肯定要考虑到我们自己的生存问题”。
The housekeeper also cites the difficulty of ease: "In a major epidemic, we must consider our own survival problems."
她租的房子原本于2月15日到期，由于疫情期间交通受阻无法及时返京的无奈选择续租，管家告诉他，短租续租要涨价15％。
Her rented house, which was due to expire on February 15, had to be renewed due to traffic disruption during the outbreak. The housekeeper told him that the lease would be increased by 15 per cent.
“你让我正常交（房租），就算空一个月我无所谓，这种特殊情况下还有加价，就觉得有点不太理解。
"I don't mind if you ask me to pay my rent normally, even if it's a month empty.
”2月12日，自如推出了《共抗疫情·平安自如系列举措之三》，表示将为因疫情导致无法如期返回租住城市的自如客提供便利续租、退租流程，具体措施包括：短续一个月与长续同等价格、3月1日后返回居住的自如客将减免2月份服务费、3月1日后仍无法返回并无退租考虑的自如客可办理无责解约。
Feb. 12, 2008 saw the launch of the 'Common Anti-Epidemic Safe and Easy Initiative' III, which provides easy rentals and rent refunds for those who are unable to return to their rental cities on time due to the epidemic.
对于因疫情导致无法返回租住社区的自如客，也将提供临时安置房源。
Temporary housing will also be provided for those who cannot return to the rental community due to the outbreak.
针对这则优惠措施的时效性，自如品牌公关部当天下午回应南都周刊称，陆续发布的相关举措从疫情以来一直在细密讨论和制定，举措发布后即开始实施。
To the effectiveness of this preferential measures, freely brand public relations department in response to the same afternoon Nandu weekly said that the relevant initiatives have been issued since the epidemic has been carefully discussed and developed, the initiative began to be implemented.
相关措施有效期会根据疫情发展及实际情况进行调整，“短续一月的优惠政策是(2月）7号发布上线，大多管家业务同事并不提前知道。
The period of validity of the relevant measures will be adjusted according to the development of the epidemic and the actual situation. "The short-term preferential policy of January 7 is released on the line, most housekeeping business colleagues do not know in advance.
”（应采访对象要求，文中人物均为化名）来源｜南都周刊END欢迎分享到朋友圈，如想取得授权请邮件：newmedia@nbweekly.com。
less-than-usual: less-than-usual: less-than-usual: less-than-usual: less-than-usual: less-than-usual: less-than-usual: less-than-usual.
如果想找到小南，可以在后台回复「小南」试试看哦~ 。
If you want to find Xiao Nan, you can reply to "Xiao Nan" in the background.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
强制搬家、高价续租、免租难落实…疫情期间长租公寓平台的争议。
Forced relocation, high-priced renewal, rent-free difficult to implement... during the outbreak of the long-lease apartment platform controversy.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "南都周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "强制搬家、高价续租、免租难落实…疫情期间长租公寓平台的争议";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Forcible removal, high rent renewal, and rent-free access... & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "新冠肺炎疫情来势汹涌，波及了人们生活的方方面面。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
​长租公寓市场的两家头部企业：蛋壳和自如，先后被推上了风口浪尖。
Jade long rental apartment market two head enterprises: eggshell and ease, has been pushed on the wind wave tip.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="南都周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
