一名武汉大学生的自述：00后的我，相信不会再畏惧了。
Wuhan university student's self-report: After 00, I believe there will be no fear.
薛珂。
Xue Keke.
南都周刊                      。
Nandu Weekly.
南都周刊。
Nandu Weekly.
有温度的新媒体。
New media with temperature.
一周多前小南发起了一场征集——“疫情过后你最想做的一件事”,得到了读者朋友们的积极参与。
More than a week ago, Xiao Nan launched a call for "one of the things you want to do after the epidemic," with the active participation of readers and friends.
下文是00后武汉大学生薛珂发来的一篇自述。
The following is a self-report sent by Xueke, a Wuhan university student.
文|薛珂 编辑|小豆出生于2000年，今年虚岁20，我是武汉华中科技大学的一名大二学生，家住武汉，学校在1月7日便早早放假了。
At the age of 20, I was a sophomore at Wuhan Huazhong University of Science and Technology. My home was in Wuhan and my school had an early holiday on January 7.
放假之后的日子，我接了一家高中生的家教工作。
After the holidays, I took a home teaching job for a high school student.
闲时去书店看看书，坐得久了就在家楼下的健身房锻炼锻炼，日子也就这么一天天很快地过去。
I go to the bookstore in my spare time to read and do some exercises in the gym downstairs after sitting for a long time.
微博上的警报微博上断断续续曝出感染新型肺炎病毒的消息，虽然官方通报看起来情况尚可，但一向依赖微博获取信息的我仍有了几分警惕，渐渐对有关病毒感染的报道开始上心。
Alarm microbloggers on microblogs have intermittently leaked news of the new pneumonia virus, and while the official announcement appears to be good, I have become somewhat wary of reports of viral infections that have traditionally relied on microblogs to obtain information.
眼看逼近年关，微博和各种公众号传出的“小道消息”越来越多，我催促妈妈买了很多口罩备用，并提议今年新年去外婆家，陪外公外婆一起过节。
As we approach the end of the year, rumors of microblogging and various public signs are on the rise. I urged my mother to buy a large number of masks for use, and proposed to spend the New Year with my grandparents.
1月22日，腊月二十八，这天我记得很清楚。
January 22, 28, I remember that day very clearly.
这本是我与家教学生约定的年前最后一节课，一大早我踌躇了许久，想到近日的报道和当时大街上只少许人戴着口罩的情形，最后还是决定取消这天的课程。
I hesitated early in the morning to recall the recent reports and the fact that only a few people on the street were wearing masks, and finally decided to cancel the course.
23日上午，我刚醒过来，就看到了武汉封城的消息。
On the morning of the 23rd I woke up and saw the news that Wuhan had been closed.
这么多天的关注下早早嗅到了不平常的危险气息，所以对这结果也不意外，但我依然难以相信“封城”真实地发生了。
It was no surprise to me that so much attention had been given to the early sense of unusual danger, but I still could not believe that the "closure" had actually taken place.
出生至今，闻所未闻“封城”为何物。
Born to this day, unheard of "closed city" for what.
我急急叮嘱外公外婆千万不能出门，接着就见妈妈和同事提着大包小包回来，说是春节期间的囤粮。
I urged my grandmother not to go out, and then saw my mother and colleagues come back with their bags, saying it was hoarding food during the Spring Festival.
爸爸在我小时候就去世了，春节期间只有我和妈妈还有外公外婆四个人在家。
Dad died when I was a child. During the Spring Festival, only my mother and my grandparents were at home.
我自认是个很典型的武汉女生，根就扎在热闹繁华的市井气里。
I think of myself as a very typical Wuhan girl, roots on the bustling bustle of the market gas.
从小长在武汉，我看遍了武汉的痞气，从吆喝到小摊，从“压马路”到“撸袖子”“打赤巴”，从顺嘴的“信了你的邪”到“虚虚浮浮”，连耳朵都适应了武汉跳动的分贝。
When I was growing up in Wuhan, I saw ruffian in Wuhan, from yelling to stalls, from pressing the road to rolling up sleeves, beating Chiba, from believing in your evil spirits to floating in vain, and adjusting my ears to the beating decibels in Wuhan.
这下子，武汉突地安静下来，从没见过这样场景的我也有些无所适从。
Now, Wuhan suddenly quiet down, I have never seen such a scene I also a little confused.
埋头在手机上寻找和疫情有关的最新报道，认真地收看钟南山、李兰娟、高福等几位专家的采访直播，这似乎是我唯一能做的了。
Searching on my mobile phone for the latest reports about the epidemic, watching live interviews with experts like Zhong Nan Shan, Li Lanjuan and Gao Fu, seems the only thing I can do.
我和妈妈开玩笑说：要是今年参加高考，自个儿抓考点肯定不赖。
My mother and I joked: If I take the college entrance exam this year, it would be nice to grab the test site by myself.
好友的妈妈病倒1月23日，我联系自己的好友小刘想问个平安。
My friend's mother fell ill January 23, I contact his good friend Xiao Liu to ask after peace.
平日小刘总让我对她妈妈以“丈母娘”相称。
Liu always let me to her mother-in-law "mother-in-law" commensurate.
小刘告诉我，“丈母娘”去医院探望感染的舅舅，回家后已经两天咳嗽不停了。
Xiao Liu told me that the "mother-in-law" went to the hospital to visit his infected uncle.
我一下懵了，赶紧追问她有没有一起跟去，“丈母娘”去医院有没有做防护。
I had no time to ask Meng, she did not follow together, "mother-in-law" to the hospital there is no protection.
小刘说不管怎么劝妈妈都不当回事，去医院也没带口罩，她自己铁了心不愿跟去，还遭妈妈一顿亲情伦理的数落。
Xiao Liu said no matter how she advised her mother not to take seriously, go to the hospital also did not wear a mask, she was determined not to go with her mother, but also a family ethics of a scolding.
小刘说妈妈已经去医院做了检查， CT检查报告单显示肺部感染。
Xiao Liu said his mother had gone to the hospital for an examination and that the CT examination report showed a lung infection.
我追问小刘舅舅的情况，她告诉我，舅舅在武汉市第一医院住院，好不容易排上核酸检测的名额，检测结果是阳性。
I asked Uncle Liu, she told me that uncle in Wuhan City No. 1 Hospital, hard to line up the number of nucleic acid testing, the test results are positive.
小刘说：“我觉得我妈是了。
"I think my mother is," Liu said.
”我第一反应是劝小刘隔离妈妈以保证安全，小刘说妈妈须得爸爸照顾，舅舅须得舅妈照顾，自己和舅舅家的小妹妹当下压根没有亲戚愿意收留，现在打算租个房子，两人暂且相依为命一段时间。
"My first reaction was to persuade Xiao Liu to isolate her mother to ensure her safety. Liu said her mother had to be looked after by her father, her uncle had to be taken care of by her uncle, and she and her uncle's little sister, who had no relatives to take in at the moment, planned to rent a house for a while.
我想到封城前妈妈买回来的一大堆蔬菜肉食，想到当时超市里货架一空的景象，想到小刘是个不会做饭的生活“二级残废”，我打开了外卖软件看着寥寥几家还在营业的饭馆，沉默了很久，一时很是气馁。
I thought about the huge amount of vegetable meat my mother had bought back before the city, the empty shelves at the supermarket, the idea that Liu was a second-degree cripple who couldn't cook, and I opened take-out software and looked at a handful of restaurants that were still open.
不知道怎么样才能帮到她，我闷闷地发了一条朋友圈，真的心有不甘。
Do not know how to help her, I sullenly made a circle of friends, really unwilling heart.
1月24日大年三十，有很多医院发出消息称防护物资告急。
January 24, about 30, many hospitals issued news that the emergency protection materials.
朋友圈和微博上的求助信息刷屏，我转了几条附有捐助渠道的消息，心里是满身力气打到棉花上的难受。
As I swiped the help screen from friends and microblogging, I turned to a couple of messages along with a donation channel, the pain of hitting the cotton.
这个浅显的道理我当然懂得，如果一线人员的工作做不好，疫情又哪能有转机一说。
This simple reason of course I know, if the front-line personnel do not do a good job, the epidemic can not have a turning point.
团圆饭和串门拜年早就取消了，好多一年见一面的亲戚今年恐怕是见不着了。
The reunion dinner and visiting the New Year have long been canceled, I am afraid that many a year to see relatives are not seen this year.
记挂小刘，25日我又去问了小刘的情况。
Remember Xiao Liu, 25 I went to ask Xiao Liu about the situation.
小刘说只租到一个单间让妹妹先住着，现在她还是住在家，唯一能做的就是将咳嗽不停的妈妈隔离在另一个房间。
Xiao Liu said she only rented a single room for her sister to live in, but now she still lives at home. All she can do is isolate her mother, who has been coughing, in another room.
她说医生让妈妈打针吃药，先回家自行隔离一段时间。
She said the doctor told her mother to take the pills and go home and isolate herself for a while.
我听着更是难受，要求小刘每天跟我报平安。
I listen to even more uncomfortable, asked Xiao Liu to tell me every day safe.
不是我矫情，小刘是我相处八年的朋友，关系好到两人能穿一条裤子。
Not my affectation, Xiao Liu is my friend for eight years, the relationship is so good that two people can wear a pair of pants.
疫情突然降临在小刘身边，我的心揪着放不下，更不敢想象一个个已经确诊的家庭又有怎么样的故事。
The outbreak of the outbreak of Liu's side, my heart clenched can not let go, more dare not imagine a family has been diagnosed and what kind of story.
跑步的时候才能有一点生活正常的感觉从没想到假期这么难过，疫情像悬在我头上的达摩克利斯之剑，每天睁眼第一件事就是看最新推送的消息，睡前也盘算着武汉什么时候才能恢复正常。
It never occurred to me that my vacation would be so miserable. The epidemic hangs over my head like the sword of Damocles. The first thing I open my eyes every day is to read the latest news, and before I go to bed, I wonder when Wuhan will return to normal.
以前我总想，我是个有美好未来的大学生，是祖国的花骨朵，每年都早早规划一年的学习任务和安排。
I used to think that I was a beautiful future of college students, is the motherland flowers, every year early planning a year's learning tasks and arrangements.
而现在，我在意的不是受到影响的学习规划，我只希望我身边的每个人都好好的，直到我们能一起下楼晒太阳，一起回学校去看东九教学楼开得烂漫的玉兰花。
Now, I do not care about the affected study plan, I just hope that everyone around me well, until we can go downstairs to the sun, together to go back to school to see the East Ninth Building opened brilliant magnolia.
1月30日，确诊病例已经逼近一万人。
By 30 January, nearly 10,000 cases had been confirmed.
健身房早已不开门，晚饭后我纠结了很久，戴着口罩下楼跑了几圈。
The gym was closed, and after dinner I had a lot of trouble getting down the stairs wearing a mask and running around.
我知道不应该随便出门，有感染的风险，但这种明晃晃的压抑像初雪将下不下的冬夜，让人实在憋得难受。
I know I should not go out, there is a risk of infection, but this kind of bright repression like the snow will not come under the winter night, people really can not bear.
只有在跑步的时候，才能有一点生活正常的感觉。
Only when you are running can you feel a little normal about your life.
但我很快发现自己错了，那样的环境和氛围还是让人绝望。
But I soon found myself in the wrong place, in a desperate environment and atmosphere.
小区步道上空无一人，抬眼就能看到隔壁办公楼的墙上映着红艳艳的“武汉加油”，红艳艳的光在夜里让人挪不开眼。
The neighborhood walk is empty, lift an eye to see the next office building against the wall of the red "Wuhan refueling," the bright red light in the night people can not move.
应该说武汉稍高一点的大楼都亮着这四个大字。
It should be said that Wuhan slightly higher buildings are lit up with these four big letters.
虽然都是红色，但是空荡荡的街和空落落的心让这几个字透着一股子清冷。
Although it is all red, but empty streets and empty heart let these words through a chilly.
我还是更爱国庆期间，引起江滩万人涌动的灯光秀的红，红得张扬，也红得热烈。
I still more patriotic celebration period, cause the river beach million people surging lights show red, red publicity, but also red warm.
那几天我过得食不知味。
I didn't know how to eat those days.
10万+的推文满天飞，很多不知所谓，只是一味煽动情绪。
With 100,000 + tweets flying around, many do not know what to say, but simply inflame the mood.
家里的粮食已经吃得差不多，我想去超市看看，外公外婆第一个跳脚反对。
I want to go to the supermarket. Grandmother-in-law is the first to jump against me.
妈妈小心翼翼挑选时间避开人流错峰去超市购物，其余时间则盯着手机加入各种买菜拼团群，想尽各种方式增加补给。
Mom carefully chooses the time to avoid the crowd to the supermarket shopping, the rest of the time is staring at the mobile phone to join a variety of shopping groups, to do everything possible to increase supplies.
舅爷爷感染新冠肺炎2月5日，我从妈妈的一次通话中得知，舅爷爷和舅奶奶有感染新型冠状病毒肺炎的症状。
My uncle and grandfather infected with the new coronavirus pneumonia February 5, I learned from my mother on the phone, uncle, grandfather and grandmother have contracted the new coronavirus pneumonia symptoms.
75岁高龄的舅爷爷1月31日才摔了一跤，根本经不住折腾，两天高烧后就病倒了。
My 75-year-old uncle fell on January 31, unable to withstand the toss, and fell ill after two days of high fever.
舅舅后来回忆说，那次摔跤应该就是乏力引起的，只可惜当时并未放在心上。
My uncle later recalled that the wrestling should have been caused by lack of energy, but unfortunately did not pay attention to it.
舅舅带着舅爷爷和舅奶奶四处求医，但是依然无处收治。
My uncle, with his grandparents and uncles, sought medical treatment everywhere, but there was still nowhere to be found.
两个老人在汉阳中医院做了CT检测，都显示肺部阴影，舅爷爷更为严重一些，CT和血常规的结果不容乐观。
Two old people in Hanyang Chinese Hospital CT examination, all showed the shadow of the lung, uncle and grandfather more serious, CT and blood routine results are not optimistic.
2月6日，舅舅载着两个老人一大早去了武汉中医院，又去了汉阳中医院分院。
Feb. 6, uncle with two old people to Wuhan early in the morning, and then went to Hanyang Hospital Branch.
医院的答复都是床位紧张，一定要试纸检验确诊后才能入院。
The hospital response is that the bed is tight, must test paper to confirm the diagnosis before admission.
可是每天每家医院的试纸有限，二老的身体状况也不允许再吹风排队，在三人开车转投汉阳五医院的路上，舅爷爷已经表现出严重的呼吸困难和乏力。
However, every day, each hospital test paper limited, the condition of the elderly is not allowed to blow line, in the three of them on the road to Hanyang Five Hospital, uncle and grandfather have shown serious breathing difficulties and fatigue.
舅舅决定回家。
My uncle decided to go home.
我转了几条求助渠道到家族群，希望通过这种渠道可以找到床位。
I turned to several channels of help to reach the family, hoping to find beds through this channel.
舅舅说自己试遍了大家转发的上报渠道，也在网上发了求助信息，同时也去社区寻求了帮助。
My uncle said he had tried all the channels of communication he had forwarded, and he had posted help on the Internet and sought help from the community.
一时半会儿都没有消息。
There was no news for a while.
舅爷爷家没有像样的消息，小刘还是每天跟我报平安。
Uncle grandpa's home has no decent news, Xiao Liu still gives me peace every day.
她看起来跟没事人一样，情绪上似乎比我还兴奋许多。
She looked as if she were alone, more emotionally excited than I was.
我憋着一肚子郁闷问她为何，小刘回答说：“妈妈这几天在家被爸爸照顾得很好，脸上气色红润不少，舅舅在医院接受治疗肯定也会好起来的，日子还得照样过，一切都会好起来的。
I asked her why, Xiao Liu replied: "My mother is very well cared for at home these days, her face is ruddy, my uncle will certainly get better after receiving treatment in the hospital.
”经历苦难的意义是什么？在家中担忧是无济于事的。
What does it mean to experience suffering? Worrying at home is not helpful.
我偶然在老师分享的一篇公众号上看到一篇文章，开始研究受难心理学。
I happened to read an article on a public sign that the teacher shared, and began to study the psychology of suffering.
在网上看维克多·弗兰克的《活出意义来》，作为纳粹暴行的受害者，他从心理学家的角度分析了自己的内心体验以及其他受难者的心理现象。
Viktor Frank's Living Meaning, a victim of Nazi atrocities, analyses his inner experience and the psychology of other sufferers from a psychologist's point of view.
我觉得我也可以算是这次疫情的受难者，实在很好奇自己应该以什么样的心态面对疫情中的那些人、那些事。
I think I can also be considered the victims of this epidemic, really curious about their own mentality in the face of those who are in the epidemic, that things.
疫情自然是算作苦难的，如果俗语说“吃苦是福”的话，我实在看不出，这个疫情对于正在经受折磨的我们有什么好处。
The epidemic naturally counts as suffering, and if the saying is "Blessed is suffering," I really don't see what good it is for us as we are suffering.
即使不谈不幸感染病毒遭受的实质性伤害，也还有不少同学因为疫情的发展影响了学业和生活的规划。
Even if we don't talk about the real damage from the unfortunate infection, there are still many students whose studies and lives are affected by the development of the epidemic.
既然这样，这种苦难有什么经受的必要和意义？然而，它又确实地发生了，这让人啼笑皆非。
In that case, what is the necessity and significance of such suffering? Yet it does happen again, which is ironic.
外婆外公调侃自己这么大岁数了都没见过这阵仗，命中注定这是有一劫。
Grandmother grandpa ridiculed his age has not seen this battle, is destined to be a robbery.
弗兰克说，即使处在最恶劣的境遇中，人仍然拥有一种不可剥夺的精神自由，即可以选择承受苦难的方式。
Frank said that even in the worst circumstances, people still have an inalienable spiritual freedom, that is, the choice to bear the way of suffering.
一个人不放弃他的这种“最后的内在自由”，以尊严的方式承受苦难，这种方式本身就是“一项实实在在的内在成就”。
A person who does not give up his "last inner freedom" and endure suffering in a dignified manner is in itself "a tangible internal achievement."
年前在书店读了一本叫《庆祝无意义》的书。
I read a book called Celebrating Meaningless in a bookstore some years ago.
米兰·昆德拉说，这个世界上哪有那么多有意义的事情，“既然逃不过就索性好好面对”。
Milan Kundera says that there are not so many meaningful things in the world, "since there is no escape to face it."
我干脆扔开手机，除了每天和关心的朋友慰问一番，其余时间就是看看书，做些居家运动。
I would just throw away my cell phone and spend the rest of my day reading and exercising at home, in addition to offering my daily condolences to my caring friends.
这样“两耳不闻窗外事”的生活倒是让我的心情轻松了很多。
This "two ears do not hear outside the window" life is let me feel a lot easier.
疫情过后我要重新做一个新年规划2月8日联系小刘，得知“丈母娘”头一天去武汉肺结核医院做了核酸检测，是阴性结果。
After the outbreak of the disease I have to do a new planning February 8 contact Xiao Liu, learned that "mother-in-law" the first day of tuberculosis hospital in Wuhan did nucleic acid testing, negative results.
我刚松了一口气，小刘却说一般要经过两次核酸检测的排查才准确。
I have just breathed a sigh of relief, Xiao Liu said that generally has to go through two nucleic acid test inventory is accurate.
舅舅前后做了四次检测，一次阴性三次阳性，试纸检测结果似乎并不稳定。
uncle before and after four tests, a negative triple positive, paper test results do not seem to be stable.
她告诉我，打算让“丈母娘”多做几次检测，现在核酸检测已经免费了，多重排查是对自己和家人负责。
She told me that she planned to have her mother-in-law tested a few more times, but now nucleic acid testing is free, multiple screening is responsible for themselves and their families.
2月10日，舅爷爷和舅奶奶被社区安置到了隔离酒店做核酸检测并等待结果。
On February 10, my uncle, grandfather and grandmother were placed in a quarantined hotel by the community for nucleic acid testing and awaiting the results.
舅奶奶因为症状较轻回家进行自我隔离，说是要把酒店的床位让给更需要的人。
My uncle and grandmother went home with mild symptoms to isolate themselves, saying that the hotel bed to the more needy people.
2月13日，核酸检测结果显示舅爷爷为阳性，舅奶奶为阴性。
Feb. 13, nucleic acid test results showed that uncle and grandfather are positive, uncle and grandmother negative.
翌日，舅爷爷被转入汉阳中医院接受治疗，舅奶奶依旧被安排到酒店进行隔离。
The next day, uncle and grandfather were transferred to Hanyang Chinese Hospital for treatment, uncle and grandmother are still arranged to the hotel for isolation.
住院后舅爷爷做了第二次核酸检测，舅舅告诉我，舅爷爷比我们想得要坚强许多，他在电话里反过来安慰舅舅，说自己每天和病房里的病友聊天，日子过得蛮简单。
My uncle had a second nucleic acid test, and my uncle told me that he was much stronger than we thought. He comforted him on the phone and said he talked to his sick friend in the ward every day.
舅舅在电话里笑着跟我说，舅爷爷吹嘘自己2003年在广州连非典也扛过去了，这一次，他肯定也能挺过去。
Uncle with a smile on the phone told me that my uncle boasted that he had carried SARS across Guangzhou in 2003. This time, he would certainly survive.
2月16日，舅爷爷的第二次核酸结果依旧是阳性。
On February 16, my uncle's second nucleic acid result was still positive.
但是重新拍了一次CT，显示病情有好转，舅奶奶的隔离期也快要结束，不久就能回家了。
But a new CT scan showed that the condition was improving and that my uncle and grandmother were nearing the end of their isolation period and would soon be able to go home.
这天，我与“丈母娘”也通了电话。
On this day, I also spoke to "mother-in-law" on the phone.
她说，后来又做了两次核酸检测，结果都是阴性，现在身体已经大好了。
She said she later underwent two more nucleic acid tests, all negative, and is now well.
她还告诉我，她工作的沃尔玛商场已经开始营业了，她决定尽早复工，在特殊时期为武汉尽一份力。
She also told me that the Wal-Mart where she worked was open and decided to resume work as soon as possible to help Wuhan in special times.
我就是武汉一个普通的大学生，我也不知道后续发展会怎么样。
I am an ordinary university student in Wuhan, I do not know how the future development will be.
但是我想，等疫情结束了，我要好好看看我好久没见过的朋友，去学校看玉兰花，去武大看樱花，重新做一个新年规划。
But I think, when the end of the epidemic, I want to take a good look at my friends I have not seen for a long time, to see Magnolia at school, to see cherry blossoms, to do a new plan for the New Year.
来源｜南都周刊END欢迎分享到朋友圈，如想取得授权请邮件：newmedia@nbweekly.com。
http: / / www.youtheme.cnYouTheme (wwwyoutheme.cn) Welcome to your circle of friends and if you want authorization, please email newmedia @ nbweekly.com.
如果想找到小南，可以在后台回复「小南」试试看哦~ 。
If you want to find Xiao Nan, you can reply to "Xiao Nan" in the background.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一名武汉大学生的自述：00后的我，相信不会再畏惧了。
Wuhan university student's self-report: After 00, I believe there will be no fear.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "南都周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "一名武汉大学生的自述：00后的我，相信不会再畏惧了";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "既然逃不过就索性好好面对";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="南都周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
