疫情下的面板生产重镇，武汉光谷多家企业仍满产运营。
The epidemic under the panel production of key towns, Wuhan Guanggu enterprises are still full of operations.
敖瑾。
O-Jin.
南都周刊                      。
Nandu Weekly.
南都周刊。
Nandu Weekly.
有温度的新媒体。
New media with temperature.
疫情之下，无数厂房的发动机轰鸣暂归平静。
Under the epidemic, the engine of innumerable workshop temporarily returns calm.
而号称“武汉·中国光谷”的武汉东湖新技术开发区，却从未曾停摆，或者说，不能停摆。
The Wuhan Donghu New Technology Development Zone, known as "Wuhan China Guanggu," has never stopped, or can't stop.
记者 |敖瑾编辑 | 小豆由于半导体显示行业生产制程的特殊性，面板生产线一旦停工，会导致机台精度、寿命受损，生产到一半的产品也将成为废品，损失极大。
As a result of the particularity of the production process in the semiconductor display industry, panel production lines, once shut down, can lead to machine accuracy, loss of life and, in the case of half-produced products, waste products.
因此，即使在当前的特殊时期，光谷内许多企业的生产线仍在满产运营。
As a result, even in the current special period, the production lines of many businesses in the Valley are still operating at full capacity.
面板行业的龙头企业——TCL华星光电技术有限公司位于武汉光谷的工厂（以下简称“武汉华星”）就是其中之一。
One of the leading companies in the panel industry, TCL Huaxing Optoelectronic Technology Co. Ltd. is located in Wuhan Guanggu factory (hereinafter referred to as "Wuhan Huaxing") is one of them.
2月11日，TCL董秘在回答投资者提问时称，武汉华星旗下t3及t4线体生产经营目前正常有序进行，t3面板产线持续满产，预计2月将持续满产运营。
On February 11, TCL secretary in response to questions from investors, said that Wuhan Huaxing's t3 and t4 line production and operation is now on track, T3 panel production line continued full production, is expected to continue full production in February.
2月12日，TCL集团董事长李东生发微博表示，武汉华星低温多晶硅显示屏占全球供应的20%，停产将对全球产业链造成冲击。
On February 12, Li Dongfa Weibo, chairman of TCL Group, said the suspension would have an impact on global industrial chains, with Wuhan Huaxing's cryogenic polysilicon display screens accounting for 20 per cent of global supply.
而维持生产线满产运营的，则是一个个留守的一线工人。
And maintain the production line full production operation, is one of the first-line workers left behind.
受疫情影响，原计划应返岗轮换的员工无法按期复工，这意味着从春节前留守公司工作至今的武汉华星员工，需要承担双倍负荷，并时刻面对随疫情而来的心理压力。
Wuhan Huaxing employees who stayed with the company until after the Spring Festival holiday will have to double the load and face the psychological pressure that comes with the outbreak.
华星内部文件显示，截至2月15日，武汉华星厂区已有一名员工确诊。
Huaxing internal documents show that as of February 15, Wuhan Huaxing factory district has been confirmed by an employee.
留守员工双倍负荷工作武汉华星厂区的工艺工程师黄林今年春节就在工厂值守，但突如其来的新冠疫情，打乱了他原先的工作安排。
Huanglin, a process engineer at Wuhan Huaxing Factory, is on duty at the factory this year, but the sudden outbreak of the new crown has disrupted his work schedule.
“按照往年的惯例，一般值守到年初六就可以轮休一个星期了，但现在不知道要到什么时候了，至少要等交通完全恢复，公司有足够人力才可以休息。
"In accordance with past practice, it is normal to take a week off from work on the sixth day of the year, but I don't know when it will be, at least until the traffic is complete and the company has enough manpower to rest.
”除了轮休无期，黄林留守期间的工作量也双倍增加。
In addition to the extended vacation, Huang's workload doubled during his stay.
“因为人只有平时的一半，所以现在的工作强度接近平时的两倍。
"People are only half as productive as usual, so the intensity of work is nearly twice as high as usual.
”黄林告诉记者，正常时期员工平均工作时长10-12小时，工作日通常5点半下班，偶尔有需要会加班到7-8点，但现在基本上每天都会加班到8点多，偶尔会到10点多。
Huang told reporters that workers typically work an average of 10-12 hours during normal working hours, work at 5: 30 on weekdays and work overtime until 7-8 on rare occasions.
黄林透露，对于值守员工的薪资安排，公司目前计划是将2月14日之前的工作时长，按两倍工资支付，同时每月给予200元餐补。
Huang said the company's current plan is to double wages and pay 200 yuan a month for work done before Feb. 14.
作为一线工程师，黄林表示理解，工厂彻底停工并不现实，这会让企业甚至整个行业都遭受巨大损失，但他认为，适量减产应是特殊时期下的一个折中解决办法。
As a front-line engineer, Huang said he understood that a complete shutdown of the plant would not be realistic and would result in huge losses for companies and even the industry as a whole, but he said moderate cuts should be a compromise solution in exceptional circumstances.
“如果可以将产能减少到满产的一半，那么现有的员工完全可以在保证休息的情况下正常工作，设备不仅不会受到损失，还有更充分的时间维护保养。
"If capacity can be reduced to half capacity, then existing employees can do their job properly without loss of equipment and more time for maintenance.
”TCL集团2月5日发布的公告显示，TCL华星位于武汉的工厂主要是生产中小尺寸产品的t3、t4生产线，春节期间按计划生产经营，当前产成品出货通道正常。
The Wuhan-based TCL China factory is mainly engaged in the production of small and medium-sized products, T3 and T4 production lines, which are produced according to the plan during the Spring Festival, according to a notice released on February 5 by TCL Group.
厂区当前在岗员工可保障生产线运行，公司将严格按照疫情防控要求安排节后人员返厂。
Factory current workers can guarantee the production line operation, the company will strictly comply with the requirements of disease prevention and control arrangements after the return of personnel.
此前有网传消息称，武汉华星强制员工在2月18日前复工，否则做旷工处理。
Previously, the Internet reported that Wuhan Huaxing forced employees to resume work before February 18, otherwise do absenteeism processing.
针对员工提出的减产建议和强制复工的消息，南都周刊联系了华星光电，对方通过书面回应称，武汉华星目前对全体员工实行三级管理模式：高风险地区人员原地待命；低风险地区人员在身体条件、当地政策允许的情况下，由员工自愿提出申请、提交健康证明等相关文件批准后方可返岗；所有返回武汉人员须按公司要求进行隔离/健康监测等。
In response to suggestions from employees to reduce production and force them to return to work, Nandu Weekly contacted China Daily, which said in a written response that Wuhan Huaxing currently operates a three-tier management model for all staff: personnel in high-risk areas are on standby; staff in low-risk areas voluntarily apply and submit health certificates.
但公司从未要求员工在2月18日前强制返工。
But the company never required its employees to rework by February 18.
对于满产运营，华星光电方面则表示，疫情期间的排产已经根据人员数量和结构做了相应调整，后续逐步恢复到正常状态后，也会尽量追赶进度，满足客户需求。
For the full production operation, China Star optoelectronic, said that the epidemic period has been adjusted according to the number and structure of personnel, after the gradual return to normal, will also try to catch up with the progress to meet customer needs.
疫情加重员工心理负担但黄林坦言，相比工作强度增加带来的压力，对感染新冠肺炎的担忧才是最主要的。
But Huang admits worries about new crown pneumonia are more important than the stress of increased job intensity.
“由于行业特殊员工需要在恒温恒湿的无尘车间维护设备正常运转，所以相当于是所有员工在同一个密闭的中央空调系统里工作。
"Since special employees in the industry need to maintain equipment in a constant temperature and humidity-free workshop, it is equivalent to all employees working in the same closed central air-conditioning system.
这么多人就在这么大点的环境里工作、吃饭、上班下班，公司防疫要做到完全到位是不可能的。
With so many people working, eating, and leaving work in such a large environment, it is impossible for the company to be fully epidemic-free.
”武汉华星平台岗位的职员刘华则担忧传染源的问题。
Liu Hua, an employee at Wuhan Huaxing platform, worries about the source of infection.
“厂区并非没有完全封闭，武汉封闭所有小区也是最近几天的事，所以员工全部要住在公司宿舍，但是此前，从1月22日到2月10日，大家都是坐班车或者开车往返的，下班以后在武汉接触了谁，有没有接触感染源，这些是不可控的。
"The plant is not completely closed, Wuhan closed all small areas in recent days, so all staff have to live in the company dormitory, but January 22 to February 10, everyone is a shuttle or driving back and forth, after work contact in Wuhan, there is no contact with the source of infection, these are not controllable.
”武汉华星内部群聊记录动员人员上班（刘华提供）TCL集团董事长李东生在2月12日发布的微博中曾提及，“我们严格按照防控要求安排生活与工作，在保持工厂正常运转同时，厂区没有发生疫情”。
Wuhan Huaxing internal group chat records mobilizing personnel to work (provided by Liu Hua) Li Dongsheng, chairman of TCL Group, mentioned in a micro-blog released Feb. 12 that "we organize our life and work strictly according to the requirements of control and prevention.
然而，在2月15日，武汉厂区通报了一例确诊病例。
However, on February 15, Wuhan factory district reported a confirmed case.
据刘华提供的一份题为“武汉华星疫情防控情况通报”的文件显示，截至2月15日20点，武汉华星累计发现发热、咳嗽等异常情况共263人，其中经医院诊断排除218人，厂区宿舍自行隔离45人，其中密切或间接接触发热人员隔离25人，1例确诊病例。
As of 20: 00 on February 15, Wuhan Huaxing had found a total of 263 abnormal cases of fever and cough, 218 of which were diagnosed by the hospital and 45 isolated by themselves, of whom 25 were quarantined by close or indirect contact with fever sufferers and one confirmed case, according to a document provided by Liu Hua.
武汉华星的疫情通报：截至15日有1例确诊病例刘华提供的一张照片显示，武汉华星厂区内2月16日11点02分的场内实时总人数为2980人。
Wuhan Huaxing Notification: As of February 15, a confirmed case, Liu Hua, provided a picture of Wuhan Huaxing factory district on February 16 at 11: 02 total real-time total of 2,980 people.
刘华透露，现在，同事之间会传一些疑似有同事感染的消息，公司内部也会拉一些小群，通知一些员工的密切接触者需要隔离，这些加剧了员工们对感染的担忧。
Now, according to Mr. Liu, colleagues can spread word of a suspected co-worker infection, and small groups within the company will alert some close contacts to the need for isolation, adding to concerns about infection.
武汉华星厂区实时人数。
Wuhan Huaxing Factory real-time number.
据黄林观察，武汉华星目前的防疫机制主要是：出口处量体温；每日给公司人员发放一次性口罩；喷洒消毒水；公司入口处最近增加了红外热成像系统。
According to Huang Lin, Wuhan Huaxing's current epidemic prevention mechanism is mainly: take temperature at the exit; give company personnel a disposable mask every day; spray disinfectant water; and recently add infrared thermal imaging systems to the entrance to the company.
“至于别的（防疫措施），公司其实能做的也有限”。
"As for other [preventive measures], the company can actually do limited."
2月19日武汉华星食堂内情况（黄林供图）目前还在老家线上办公的刘华则收到了可能去深圳华星上班的消息，“16号在群里看到消息，公司还在评估可能性，方案还没定。
On February 19, the situation in Wuhan Huaxing Cafeteria (Huanglin map) is still working on the home line Liu Hua received the news that he might go to work in Shenzhen Huaxing.
”就值守员工对感染的担忧以及公司如何做好防疫工作的问题，华星光电在书面回应中表示，目前武汉华星无公司内传染导致的病例出现，确诊病例系该员工休假外出期间感染，第2天发现当日就医隔离。
In a written response to questions about staff concerns about infection and how the company is doing its job, Huaxing optoelectronic said in a written response that there were no cases of infection caused by infection in Wuhan Huaxing Company.
公司目前采取的防疫措施包括物理消杀防控（宿舍、班车等进行每日两次消毒）、物理隔离防控（设置隔离区、全员发放口罩）、心理防控与疏导（心理咨询24小时专线）。
The company's current anti-epidemic measures include physical sterilization (dormitory, shuttle bus, etc.), physical isolation control (establishment of isolation zones, distribution of full-time masks), psychological control and counselling (24-hour psychological counselling line).
针对密闭厂房存在的病毒传播风险，华星光电在书面回复中表示，洁净室内风机过滤单元隔离效率大于99.97%，进出入洁净室管理程序严格，需两次洗手后戴手套、多次风淋，洁净室避免了飞沫传播，无法揉眼，无法吃东西，可避免病毒传播。
In response to the risk of virus transmission in enclosed plant, Hua Xing optoelectronic said in a written response that the isolation efficiency of clean indoor fan filter unit was greater than 99.97%, strict procedures for entering and leaving the clean room were strict, gloves were needed twice after washing hands, frequent exposure to the wind, and clean rooms prevented droplets from spreading, eye rubbing and eating.
春节期间光谷多家企业保持连续生产始建于1988年的武汉东湖高新区经过30多年的发展，已成为中国科技创新中流砥柱般的存在，覆盖光电子信息、集成电路和新型显示等新兴领域。
After more than 30 years of development, Wuhan East Lake High-tech New Area, founded in 1988, has become a mainstay of China's scientific and technological innovation, covering new and emerging areas such as optoelectronic information, integrated circuits and new types of display.
东湖高新区1991年被国务院批准为首批国家高新区，2001年被原国家计委、科技部批准为国家光电子产业基地，即“武汉·中国光谷”。
The East Lake High-tech Zone was approved by the State Council in 1991 as the first high-tech zones of the state. In 2001, it was approved by the State Planning Commission and the Ministry of Science and Technology as the national optoelectronic industry base.
2018年底，东湖高新区已有高新企业2308家，占到了湖北省高新企业总数的三分之一。
By the end of 2018, there were 2,308 new high-tech enterprises in the high-tech new area, accounting for one-third of the total.
武汉光谷是国内面板生产重镇，是打破日韩厂商垄断的关键生产基地。
Wuhan Guang Gu is an important domestic panel production town, is a key production base to break the monopoly of Japanese and Korean manufacturers.
2008年起，“光谷”便启动显示产业布局。
Since 2008, the "light valley" has been launched to display industrial layout.
通过十余年的布局，以千亿元为单位的投资，光谷目前共布局建设了5条新型显示面板生产线，集聚了华星光电、京东方、天马等一批国内领先的新型显示企业，是华为、小米等品牌的显示面板的核心供应基地。
With a layout of more than ten years and an investment of 100 billion yuan, Guanggu has built five new display panel production lines, which are home to a number of leading domestic display companies, including Huaxing Optoelectronic, Beijing Oriental and Tianma. They are the core supply bases for Huawei and millet brands.
在半导体显示领域，国内过去曾极度依赖进口。
In the area of semiconductor display, the country used to rely heavily on imports.
以2010年为例，当年中国液晶面板进口额超过460亿美元，仅次于集成电路、石油和铁矿石的进口额，其中高分辨率的手机屏大部分由日本、韩国厂商垄断。
In 2010, for example, China imported more than $46 billion in LCD panels, second only to imports of integrated circuits, oil, and iron ore, with high-resolution screens dominated by Japanese and South Korean producers.
但经过多年布局，目前情况已经发生改变。
Over the years, however, the situation has changed.
据湖北日报此前报道，目前，光谷已成为全国规模最大、技术最先进的中小尺寸显示面板基地，至2020年，当地显示面板产业总产值有望突破千亿元大关。
According to Hubei Daily, Guanggu has become the largest and most advanced medium-sized display panel base in China. By 2020, the local output value of panel industries is expected to exceed 100 billion yuan.
除了华星光电，光谷其他主要的面板生产企业也未因疫情影响而完全停摆。
In addition to Huaxing photovoltaic, the other major panel manufacturers in the optical valley has not been affected by the epidemic completely stopped.
京东方在武汉拥有一条10.5代新产线，目前已实现量产。
Beijing Oriental has a 10.5 generation new production line in Wuhan, has now realized the volume production.
京东方在2月4日召开电话会议时提及，受疫情影响，该产线爬坡计划短期有所放缓，后续产能释放节奏将根据实际情况恢复。
Beijing Oriental said during a conference call on Feb. 4 that plans to ramp up the production line have slowed in the short term due to the epidemic, and the pace of further capacity release will resume based on actual conditions.
其他产线方面，春节期间虽有部分工人休假，但是生产运营活动依然按照计划有序进行。
Other production lines, although some workers during the Spring Festival holiday, but production and operation activities continue to proceed according to plan.
另据央视新闻近日报道，京东方科技集团董事长陈炎顺表示：“到目前为止，京东方已经恢复大概75%的生产。
According to CCTV News recently, Chen Yanshun, chairman of Beijing Oriental Technology Group, said: "So far, Beijing Oriental has recovered about 75 per cent of production.
一季度预料京东方整个生产的产值大概会超过300亿元，比去年同期还略有增长。
The output value of Beijing Oriental's total production is expected to exceed 30 billion yuan in the first quarter, up slightly from a year earlier.
上市公司深天马A在武汉光谷拥有两条面板生产线。
Listed company deep Tianma A has two panel production lines in Wuhan Guanggu.
据武汉天马G4.5生产基地负责人杜劲学介绍，春节期间武汉天马产线保持连续生产运营，基本没有受到疫情影响。
According to Du Jingxue, the head of Wuhan Tianma G4.5 production base, Wuhan Tianma production line maintained continuous production and operation during the Spring Festival, basically unaffected by the epidemic.
杜劲学还表示，“如疫情持续发展，未来短期内材料、员工返岗、部分原材料供应等会面对一些压力。
"If the epidemic continues to develop, materials, staff will return to work in the short term and some raw material supplies will come under some pressure," Du said.
公司也采取了一些应对措施，比如与上海、成都G4.5代a-Si产线之间进行物料连通生产等。
The company has also taken a number of measures, such as Shanghai, Chengdu G4.5 generation a-Si production line between the material connectivity and so on.
现阶段从中央到地方，全国都在支援湖北、支援武汉，我们有信心持续做好疫情防控，快速恢复满产满销。
At this stage, from the central government to the local, the whole country is supporting Hubei and Wuhan. We are confident that we will continue to do a good job of disease prevention and control.
”（应被采访者要求，文中黄林、刘华为化名）来源｜南都周刊END欢迎分享到朋友圈，如想取得授权请邮件：newmedia@nbweekly.com。
(At the request of interviewees, sources such as Huang Lin and Liu Huawei (pseudonym) are welcome to share with your circle of friends, if you want authorization, please email newmedia @ nbweekly.com.
如果想找到小南，可以在后台回复「小南」试试看哦~ 。
If you want to find Xiao Nan, you can reply to "Xiao Nan" in the background.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情下的面板生产重镇，武汉光谷多家企业仍满产运营。
The epidemic under the panel production of key towns, Wuhan Guanggu enterprises are still full of operations.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "南都周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "疫情下的面板生产重镇，武汉光谷多家企业仍满产运营";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var title ="南都周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
