没想到！一群高中生和一群95后，在帮他们解决口罩问题。
Unexpectedly! A group of high school students and a group of 95, to help them solve the problem of masks.
甘笠男等。
Bonin men, etc.
南都周刊                      。
Nandu Weekly.
南都周刊。
Nandu Weekly.
有温度的新媒体。
New media with temperature.
“环卫工人还是需要被关注的。
"Sanitary workers still need attention.
”一群高中生创立的“口罩深圳”项目，和一群大学生创立的“口罩珠海”项目，希望在疫情期间帮助环卫工人解燃眉之急。
The Mask Shenzhen project, founded by a group of high school students, and the Mask Zhuhai project, founded by a group of university students, hope to help sanitation workers meet their immediate needs during the outbreak.
文 | 甘笠男 蒋敏玉 陈淦博编辑 | 小豆早晨五点多的深圳，天还没有亮透，环卫工伟强已经准备出门了。
Gansu CHIANG GAN GAN BO EDITOR & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
他从上衣口袋里掏出一个叠好的一次性医用口罩戴上。
He pulled a folded disposable medical mask from his coat pocket and put it on.
公司年前发的两个口罩早已用完，售价4.5元一个的一次性口罩，伟强舍不得只用一次。
The company issued two masks before the end of the price of 4.5 yuan a disposable mask, Weiqiang reluctant to use only once.
他学着电视上教的，用手把口罩上部的金属条沿着脸部轮廓按了按，已经戴了两天的口罩散发出淡淡的异味。
Learning to teach on TV, he pressed the metal strip on the top of his mask along his face with his hand. The mask, which had been worn for two days, smelled faint.
环卫工人的担忧“我都不想干了。
The sanitation worker's concern "I don't even want to do it.
每天要拉这么多垃圾，这些垃圾谁知道是病人的还是健康人的？要是带病的人的垃圾，我染上了，那我太划不来了。
Who knows if it's a sick or healthy person who pulls so much rubbish every day? If I catch the garbage of a sick person, it's too good for me.
”当时武汉“封城”已有一周时间，新型冠状病毒仍在全国各地肆虐，伟强心里越来越焦虑，辞职的念头也愈发强烈。
A week after Wuhan was sealed off, the new coronavirus was still roiling the country and Wei Qiang was becoming increasingly anxious and eager to resign.
防护简陋的环卫工人正在工作（图源：珠海市环境卫生协会）在北京工作的环卫工雪华跑了好几家超市和药店，都买不到口罩和消毒液，年前工会发放的两个棉布口罩听说也只能防尘。
Xuehua, a sanitation worker in Beijing who works for the Zhuhai Environmental Health Association, has been unable to buy masks and disinfectant in several supermarkets and pharmacies. Two cotton masks issued by the trade union some years ago are said to be only dustproof.
每天下班回到出租屋后，她能做的，只能是按照公司每天叮嘱他们的——多洗手。
When she came home from work every day, all she could do was to wash their hands as the company told them every day.
2月2日，中国疾控中心传染病处研究员冯录召在国家卫健委新闻发布会上表示，“广大环卫工人、公交车司乘人员等，在岗期间要规范佩戴口罩。
"The vast majority of sanitary workers, bus attendants and other personnel should wear face masks regularly while on duty," Feng Luo, a researcher with the China CDC Infectious Diseases Service, called at a news conference of the State Sanitary Commission.
” 随后，全国多地陆续发布有关保障环卫工人防疫的通知。
Subsequently, many countries throughout the country issued successive notices on the protection of sanitary workers against epidemic diseases.
在此之前，已有人注意到环卫工人的防疫窘境，“口罩深圳”、“口罩北京”、“口罩福州”等志愿活动陆续涌现。
Prior to this, people have noted the sanitary workers' plight, "mask Shenzhen," "mask Beijing," "mask Fuzhou" and other voluntary activities have emerged.
王楚妍是“口罩深圳”的7位负责人之一，也是一名高二学生。
Wang Chu-yan is one of the seven officials in charge of the mask Shenzhen. He is also a sophomore.
这个团队7位负责人的平均年龄才16岁，可能是这场全国口罩行动中平均年龄最小的团队。
The team, with an average age of 16, is probably the youngest team in the national mask operation.
大年三十的上午，王楚妍偶然在微信上发现了一条“口罩深圳”的推送，曾参加过多个志愿活动的她迫切地想加入这个团队。
On the morning of New Year's Eve, Wang Chu-yan happened to find a push on a "mask Shenzhen." She was eager to join the team after she had taken part in many volunteer activities.
初步了解情况后，她发现环卫工人的防疫状况不容乐观。
After preliminary understanding of the situation, she found that the sanitary workers epidemiological situation is not optimistic.
“深圳一共有九个外包公司，有一个稍微好一点，每人每天基本上可以平均分下来一个口罩，其他公司，普遍都是过年前发了一两只，年后连续几天都没有管。
"Shenzhen has a total of nine outsourcing companies, there is a little better, each person can basically be divided down a mask, other companies, generally before the Chinese New Year, a few days after the last few days without tube.
” 王楚妍说。
"said Wang Chu-yan.
深圳市环卫局告诉她，政府已经下拨了一万只口罩给环卫工人，但对于深圳市九家环卫公司、八万多名工人的每日需求来说，只是杯水车薪。
The Shenzhen Municipal Environmental Protection Bureau told her the government had already given 10,000 face masks to sanitation workers, but only a fraction of the daily needs of the city's nine sanitation companies and more than 80,000 workers.
2月4日，珠海市环境卫生协会在公众号发布的《关注环卫一线工人疫情防控物资紧缺问题》一文引起了大三学生乔珑轩的注意。
It has long been the first time that the world has seen such a dramatic increase in the number of buildings in the world.
他随即拉上同学和好友，成立“口罩珠海”项目，希望为缺乏防疫物资的珠海市环卫工人尽绵薄之力。
He then pulled up students and friends, set up a "mask Zhuhai" project, hoping to lack of epidemic prevention materials for the sanitation workers in Zhuhai City.
在珠海市环境卫生协会和珠海市市容中心的帮助下，2月11日一天内，“口罩珠海”团队收集到了来自2204位环卫工人填写的问卷，结果显示1600位环卫工人买不到口罩，近800人使用的是纸口罩、棉口罩，洗手液、防护手套等物资也极为紧缺。
A team of 2,204 sanitation workers collected questionnaires from 2,204 sanitation workers and nearly 800 used paper masks, cotton masks, hand sanitizers and protective gloves, with help from the Zhuhai Environmental Health Association and Zhuhai City Appearance Center on Feb. 11.
参加调查的72%的环卫工人买不到口罩“口罩珠海”的负责人之一，大三学生梁志城说：“我当时看到这个数据确实很震惊。
"I was shocked to see the figures," said Liang Zhicheng, a junior student who led the survey who couldn't buy a mask.
”珠海市内约有一万多名环卫工人，太多的需求没法满足。
There are about 10,000 sanitation workers in Zhuhai, and too much demand cannot be met.
一波三折的筹款之路1月24日成立，1月25日发出第一轮捐赠通告，1月27日中午，“口罩深圳”宣布第一轮募资完成，共计募得来自近1000人的约38000元善款，超额完成了原定的3万元目标。
The first round of fund-raising was launched on January 24, and the first round of donations was announced on January 25. At noon on January 27, Shenzhen announced the completion of the first round of fund-raising.
为了规避法律纠纷，“口罩深圳”团队还向5位律师咨询了关于慈善法的相关事宜，在律师的建议下，他们着手联系慈善机构和NGO。
To avoid legal disputes, the Mask Shenzhen team also consulted five lawyers about the charity law and, at their counsel's suggestion, set out to contact charities and NGOs.
1月27日，深圳市广电公益基金会相关负责人主动联系了他们。
January 27, Shenzhen Municipal Radio and Television Foundation of relevant officials contact them.
“基金会一般走的是报销制，但是由于我们是学生，家里也不一定有这样一个可以垫付的款项，而且特殊时期工厂也不一定能开出发票。
"The foundation generally has a reimbursement system, but because we're students, we don't always have an advance payment, and factories don't always invoice in special times.
”王楚妍说。
"said Wang Chu-yan.
经过两天的磋商，“口罩深圳”最终决定与深圳市广电公益基金会建立挂靠关系，共同管理监督资金流向并分别审计。
After two days of negotiations, "Mask Shenzhen" finally decided to establish a relationship with Shenzhen Municipal Radio and Television Foundation, jointly manage the flow of funds and audit separately.
1月29日，“口罩深圳”又进行了一次募捐。
January 29, "mask Shenzhen" made another fund-raising.
两轮募捐下来，“口罩深圳”筹得善款共73000多元。
Two rounds of fund-raising down, "mask Shenzhen" raised a total of 73,000 yuan.
另一边，起步较晚的“口罩珠海”的筹款路程却一波三折。
On the other hand, the late start of the "mask Zhuhai" fund-raising trip has been ups and downs.
“其实一直都有一个很棘手的问题，就是怎么能让更多的人帮我们宣传。
"There's always the tricky question of how to get more people to help us communicate.
”为了让更多人关注到珠海环卫工人，梁志城和其他5位队友想尽了办法：联系珠海各大学官方公众号，和珠海慈善总会以及深圳广电基金会沟通等，但基本都被“婉拒”了。
To draw more attention to Zhuhai's sanitation workers, Liang and five other teammates tried their best to contact the official public numbers of Zhuhai universities, the Zhuhai Charity Federation and the Shenzhen Broadcasting Foundation, but were largely declined.
珠海慈善总会通过电话告诉梁志城，因为疫情严重，慈善总会是由市里或省里统一指挥物资调动和捐款使用，目前没有精力和个人或者组织合作。
Zhuhai Charity Association told Liang Zhicheng by telephone that because of the severity of the epidemic, the Association is used by the city or province under unified command for the mobilization of materials and donations and currently has no energy to work with individuals or organizations.
广电基金会也以相同的理由婉拒了“口罩珠海”的合作需求。
The Radio and Television Foundation declined Zhuhai's request for cooperation on the same grounds.
更糟糕的是，2月16日，“口罩珠海”的公众号被封了，一些想要捐款的热心人士告诉梁志城：“推送链接看不了了。
To make matters worse, on Feb. 16, the public name for Mask Zhuhai was blocked, and some enthusiasts who wanted to donate told Liang Zhicheng: "The push link is no longer available.
”乔珑轩和梁志城猜测是因为口罩小助手微信号近期才进行实名认证，而短时间又高频接受了善款，导致被微信平台冻结收款功能，所绑定的公众号也被暂时封停。
It is possible to imagine that the mask's small assistant has only recently been certified as a real name, while the short-term high-frequency acceptance of the donation has led to a freeze on the receiving function and the temporary closure of the public phone number.
他们立即向微信客服进行了申诉，目前还在等待处理结果。
They immediately complained to the tweets and are still waiting for the outcome.
“口罩珠海”受到热心市民的鼓励（图片由受访者提供）即使宣传、对接方面坎坷不断，“口罩珠海”团队也遇到了不少暖心事儿。
Face Mask Zhuhai was encouraged by enthusiastic members of the public (picture provided by interviewees). Even though the difficulties in publicity and docking have not stopped, the team "Mask Zhuhai" has encountered many warm-hearted things.
左心房公益组织、手握手公益组织看到他们的推送后主动联系了他们，表示愿意帮忙宣传推文，并给“口罩珠海”负责人分享了不少公益项目运营的经验。
The left atrial public welfare organization, handshake public welfare organizations saw their push and contact them, offered to help promote tweets, and to "mask Zhuhai" to share a lot of experience in the operation of pro bono projects.
“口罩珠海”团队还受到了不少爱心人士的鼓励。
"Mask Zhuhai" team was also encouraged by many loving people.
令大家印象最深的是55岁的张伯，已经在广州从事了21年环卫工作的他，幽默地称自己为“环卫大学毕业生”。
Most impressive is Zhang Bo, 55, who has spent 21 years as a sanitation worker in Guangzhou, humorously calling himself a "college graduate of sanitation."
前不久，张伯刚给湖北捐款500元，拿不出更多的钱支持“口罩珠海”项目，他有些懊恼：“如果早一点就好了，钱就不会送到湖北了。
Not long ago, Zhang had just donated 500 yuan to Hubei, unable to provide more money to support the Mask Zhuhai project. He was annoyed: "If only he had been earlier, the money would not have been sent to Hubei.
”疫情期间，张伯还用开玩笑的方式来缓解其他环卫工人的紧张情绪：“每个环卫工人都自带‘消毒’器官，病毒到环卫工人身上就都被这个器官消化了，你们只管放心就是，但还是要注意防护。
During the outbreak, Zhang joked to ease tensions among other sanitation workers: "Every sanitation worker brings his own disinfectant organ, which digests the virus on the sanitation workers.
”从业21年来，张伯受过不少白眼，得知一群大学生在帮助环卫工人募捐买口罩时，张伯有些惊讶，但更多的是感谢和感动，“（他们）关心我们环卫工人，我很感动。
Zhang was surprised to learn that a group of university students was helping sanitation workers collect donations to buy masks. But Zhang was more grateful and moved.
”虽然现在筹集到的资金离3万元的目标还有一定距离，但梁志城和队友们并不觉得沮丧，“不管筹多少，能让大家关注这个群体，我们已经尽了力了，我觉得这个活动的意义也已经达到了。
Although the fund-raising is still some way from the target of 30,000 yuan, Liang and his teammates are not dismayed: "No matter how much money we raise, we have done our best to make this group visible, and I think the event has achieved its purpose.
”400多个电话挨个打疫情之下，医用防护物资货源吃紧，不少厂商都被征用专为湖北疫区供货。
More than 400 telephones were used to fight the epidemic, and supplies of medical protection materials were tight, and many manufacturers were requisitioned to supply Hubei epidemic areas.
街上的药店纷纷贴出“口罩售罄”的通知，要帮深圳、珠海的上千名环卫工人购买合格的防护口罩并非易事。
Pharmacies on the streets have posted notices saying "masks are sold out," making it difficult for thousands of sanitation workers in Shenzhen and Zhuhai to buy qualified face masks.
赵崇琳和“口罩珠海”的队友们先在各大批发平台搜索无果，后又转战贴吧、朋友圈、微博，终于得到一份防疫物资生产商名单。
ZhaoChongLin and "Mask Zhuhai" teammates in the major wholesale platform search without success, and then to post bar, friends, Weibo, finally got a list of epidemic prevention manufacturers.
表格很长，上面有400多个厂家的联系方式，赵崇琳花了两个小时，挨个给厂家打电话。
The form is very long, there are more than 400 manufacturers of contact information, Zhao Chonglin spent two hours, one after another to call manufacturers.
然而，大部分电话并没能接通，接通的电话要么直接挂断，要么就是在听完赵崇琳的来意后便抛下两个字——“没有”。
However, most of the calls could not be connected, either directly or after listening to Zhao Chonglin's arrival, they left two words "no."
赵崇琳开始变得焦虑，“很多货源不是被征用了，就是起批量要在5万甚至10万以上，而我们买口罩一次只能买几千个。
Zhao became worried. "Many of our supplies are either requisitioned or in batches of 50,000 or more, and we can buy only a few thousand masks at a time.
”另一方面，有“三证一标”的生产商十分难找，市面上大量的劣质口罩货源也给赵崇琳的物资采购带来了困扰。
On the other hand, manufacturers with "three certificates and one label" are hard to find, and Zhao Chonglin's purchases have been plagued by a flood of shoddy masks on the market.
为了让环卫工人放心地用上口罩，赵崇琳在采购之前还会要求厂家出示生产资质证明、物资照片等。
In order to let sanitary workers safely wear masks, Zhao Chonglin will also ask manufacturers to show production qualification certificates, material photos, and so on.
口罩等防护物资供不应求，平时售价1元都稍贵的一般医用口罩的价格也在成倍上涨。
Supplies of face masks and other protective materials are in short supply, and the price of general medical masks, which are slightly more expensive at 1 yuan, is rising exponentially.
“采购价格一直在变，货源也一直在变，如果今天不和厂家谈好价格下订金，第二天口罩或许就没有了。
"The purchase price has been changing and the supply has been changing. If you don't negotiate a good price deposit with the manufacturer today, the next day the mask may not be available.
”赵崇琳告诉南都周刊，“一周前我们刚了解的时候，口罩大概3.5元一个，现在大部分厂商的价格已经涨到4.5。
"When we first learned about them a week ago, they were about $3.5 a mask, and now most manufacturers are trading at 4.5," Zhao told Nantou Weekly.
”相比之下，起步较早的“口罩深圳”就幸运得多。
Shenzhen, an early-stage mask, is much luckier by comparison.
1月底，王楚妍和队友们联系到的两家防疫物资生产商给出的口罩单价在0.5-0.7元内，后来再联系到的厂家，价格就涨到了2.5-3.8元一个。
At the end of January, Wang and two manufacturers contacted by his teammates gave a unit price of 0.5 to 0.7 yuan for masks, and prices rose to 2.5 to 3.8 yuan for those who contacted them later.
他们收到的73000多元的捐款共购买了两万多个医用口罩和1.5吨84消毒液，其中有近2000个口罩是来自爱心人士的捐赠。
With a donation of more than 73,000 yuan, they bought more than 20,000 medical masks and 1.5 tons of disinfectant, nearly 2,000 of which were donated by caring people.
环卫公司将“口罩深圳”筹集的防疫物资发放给环卫工人。
Sanitation company will "mask Shenzhen" collection of epidemic prevention materials distributed to sanitation workers.
（图片由受访者提供）从1月29日到2月17日，陆续有五六批物资抵达深圳。
From January 29 to February 17, five or six shipments arrived in Shenzhen.
最早送到环卫工人手中的是520个由深圳企业捐赠的爱心口罩。
Among the first to be delivered to sanitation workers were 520 love masks donated by Shenzhen enterprises.
29日上午，物资发放组的钟木腾租了一辆货车，从深圳罗湖区去到东莞领取口罩，再将口罩送到龙岗区的一家环卫公司。
On the morning of May 29, Zhong Muoteng of the Material Distribution Group hired a lorry to collect masks in Dongguan from the Lake District of Shenzhen and send them to a sanitation company in Longgang district.
“当时大概有20个环卫工人在等待，大家搭把手分发口罩。
"There were about 20 sanitation workers waiting and they were handing out masks.
”钟木腾将自己早上从工厂那边学来的口罩佩戴方法，一步步演示给在场的环卫工人，并强调了几个注意事项。
Mr. Zhong showed sanitation workers how to wear the masks he learned from the factory in the morning, emphasizing several caveats.
“当时心里有点难受……环卫工人还是需要被关注的。
"It was a little hard at the time... the sanitation workers needed attention.
”钟木腾说。
'he said.
“口罩深圳”团队将口罩送到深圳市环境卫生管理处。
Shenzhen Mask Shenzhen team will send the mask to the Shenzhen Municipal Environmental Hygiene Office.
（图片由受访者提供）目前，“口罩深圳”项目已经进入收尾阶段，最后一批共12000个口罩将在近期发出。
The mask Shenzhen project is now in its final stages, with the last batch of 12,000 face masks due to be issued in the near future.
而“口罩珠海”也已筹到善款约14900元，据悉，左心房公益组织有意向其提供资金资助，北京师范大学-香港浸会大学联合国际学院（UIC罗平基金会）基金会表示愿意资助“口罩珠海”3000元，防疫物资购买仍在洽谈中。
Meanwhile, the Mask Zhuhai has raised about 14,900 yuan, and left atrial benefit organizations are reported to be interested in providing financial support. The Foundation of Beijing Normal University-Hong Kong Baptist University (UIC Lobing Foundation) has offered to fund 3,000 yuan for a mask Zhuhai.
回忆起半个月来的忙碌，王楚妍感叹道：“很欣慰自己可以出一份力。
Remembering half a month's work, Wang Chuyan sighed, "I'm glad I can do something about it.
”当记者再次联系到深圳环卫工伟强时，电话那头的他大声地说：“我们有口罩了！单位也发了，自己也买了！”（应采访对象要求，文中伟强、雪华为化名）来源｜南都周刊END欢迎分享到朋友圈，如想取得授权请邮件：newmedia@nbweekly.com。
When the reporter contacted Shenzhen sanitation worker Wei Qiang again, he said loudly, "We have a mask! The unit has sent it, too!"
如果想找到小南，可以在后台回复「小南」试试看哦~ 。
If you want to find Xiao Nan, you can reply to "Xiao Nan" in the background.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
没想到！一群高中生和一群95后，在帮他们解决口罩问题。
Unexpectedly! A group of high school students and a group of 95, to help them solve the problem of masks.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "南都周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "没想到！一群高中生和一群95后，在帮他们解决口罩问题";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; never thought! A group of high school students and a group of 95 were helping with their mask problem.
var msg_desc = "“环卫工人还是需要被关注的。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "Sanitation workers still need attention.
”";。
";;
var title ="南都周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
