一“枪”难求，买额温枪遭遇连环涨。
A "gun" difficult to get, buy a thermostat encountered a chain rise.
盛倩玉。
Splendid jade.
南都周刊                      。
Nandu Weekly.
南都周刊。
Nandu Weekly.
有温度的新媒体。
New media with temperature.
小区门口、公司门口、超市门口……人们已经习惯了被工作人员拿着额温枪测量体温这一动作。
In front of the small area, the company door, the supermarket... people have been used to be taken by the staff to measure the temperature of the front gun.
随着全国大部分地区复工复产的推进，额温枪这一原本小众的产品已经成为“硬通货”，一“枪”难求。
With the resumption of work in most parts of the country, this is a small product has become "hard currency", a "gun" difficult to obtain.
文 | 盛倩玉 编辑 | 小豆（图源：文汇网）345元、425元、455元、500元、521元……一支小小的额温枪，几天之内价格几经变化，令想购买200支额温枪，援助村镇防疫的一家湖北农业企业头痛不已。
At Rmb345, 425, 455, 500 and 521, a small front-temperature gun that has changed prices in a few days and has caused headaches to a Hubei farm company that helped prevent disease in villages and towns.
但卖家同样深感无奈，厂家产能受限，市面上根本拿不到货，“自己发货还要贴钱”，要不是为了优先支援湖北，她宁愿不接这一单生意。
But the seller also felt helpless, manufacturers limited capacity, the market simply can not get goods, "their own delivery and money," but for the priority to support Hubei, she would rather not take this business.
买家无奈：急购200支额温枪新冠肺炎疫情的发生，让以往需求量稳定的口罩、酒精、消毒水等防疫物资，突然成了紧俏商品。
Buyers helplessly: emergency purchase of 200 new cap gun pneumonia outbreak, so that previously stable demand for masks, alcohol, disinfectant and other epidemic prevention materials, suddenly become a hot commodity.
而如今，随着企业陆续开展复工，生产生活逐步恢复，额温枪又成了最新的关注点。
Now, with the resumption of enterprise work, the production life gradually restored, the frontal temperature gun has become the latest concern.
检测人体体温的温度计，有接触式和非接触式两种。
Thermometers for human body temperature, contact and non-contact.
接触式的体温计测量准确度较高，但测量时间较长，在公共场合对于来往人群的体温检测，额温枪这种非接触式体温计往往更为快速、安全。
Contact thermometers are more accurate, but take longer to measure, and non-contact thermometers, such as frontal thermostats, tend to be faster and safer when measured in public places.
（图源：新华网）现如今，在小区门口、公司大门、超市门口……随处可见工作人员拿着额温枪测量来往者的体温，这使得额温枪这一原本较为小众的产品，一时间出现供不应求的状况。
(Source: Xinhua net) Now, in front of the door of the community, the company door, supermarket... can be seen staff carrying a frontal temperature gun to measure the temperature of the people, this is a relatively small product, a temporary shortage of demand.
不少急需购买额温枪以备复工复产的企业、单位，在药店和网络平台遍寻不得，只能通过熟人介绍、人肉代购等方式“求货”。
Many enterprises and units in urgent need of buying frontal temperature guns to resume production can not be found in pharmacies and online platforms, but can only "purchase" through acquaintances, human flesh buying methods.
2月13日，湖北省随州市淅河镇当地的一家农业企业——湖北丰年农业开发有限公司（以下简称“丰年农业”）总经理徐道恒得知，淅河当地缺乏额温枪物资，于是先后打听了不少朋友，想为镇里购买捐助200支额温枪。
Xu Daoheng, general manager of Hubei Fenggnian Agricultural Development Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "Fenggnian Agriculture"), a local agricultural enterprise in Suizhou City, Hubei Province, learned that there was a shortage of frontal temperature guns in Xianhe area.
在随州企业家的微信群里，徐道恒通过中间人联系上了一家名为“深圳逐鹿文化旅游有限公司”（以下简称“逐鹿文化”）的深圳企业，可以帮助他们订购额温枪。
Through a middleman, Xu Daoheng, a small group of entrepreneurs in Suizhou province, contacted a Shenzhen-based company called Shenzhen Deer-for-Culture Travel Co. Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "Deer-for-Culture") to help them order forehead-temperature guns.
此时额温枪已经很难买了，能订到货绝对是个好消息。
At this point in time the forehead warm gun has been very difficult to buy, can order the goods is definitely good news.
丰年农业的财务徐丽莎随后添加了逐鹿文化的负责人曾女士，表示想要订购200支额温枪。
The financier of FengNian Agriculture, Xu Lisa, then added Ms. Zeng, head of deer-culture, to order 200 thermos.
曾女士回复：“245元/支，200支共计49000元，不含税、不包邮。
"Ms. Zeng replied," 245 yuan per unit, 200 pieces make a total of 49,000 yuan, no tax, no postage.
”徐莉莎告诉记者，对方发送了产品信息图给她后，她从淘宝等平台检索了这一款“健之康医用红外额温计”，发现同款价格多在40-150元左右，但实际上都是没货的。
Xu told reporters that after the other party sent her a product information diagram, she retrieved the device from Taobao and other platforms and found the same price was mostly around 40-150 yuan, but it was virtually non-existent.
此时额温枪紧缺，即使价格稍高也可以理解，徐丽莎立即通过银行转账的方式，将49000元汇往了逐鹿文化。
There was a shortage of frontal-temperature guns, which were understandable even at slightly higher prices, and Teresa immediately remitted 49,000 yuan to deer-driven culture by bank transfer.
一个多小时后，徐丽莎突然收到对方发来的微信。
More than an hour later, Teresa received a message from her counterpart.
曾女士抱歉地告诉徐丽莎，刚才太忙算错了价格，额温枪应该是345元/只。
Ms. Zeng was sorry to tell Xu Lisa that she had been too busy calculating the wrong price and that the frontal gun should be 345 yuan per gun.
“我（进货）下单都是330元了。
"I placed orders for 330 yuan each.
”曾女士提出，徐莉莎可以补齐差价，或者选择退款处理。
Ms Zeng suggested that Xu could make up the difference or opt for a refund.
见对方态度诚恳，而本镇对于额温枪的需求确实迫切，在和公司总经理等人沟通后，14日早晨，徐莉莎又将20000元的差价汇往逐鹿文化的账户。
After communicating with the general manager of the company and others, Xu sent the difference of 20,000 yuan to the Deer Culture Account.
付完款后，丰年农业焦急地等待对方公司安排发货。
After paying, FengNian Agriculture anxiously waited for the other company to arrange the delivery.
15-18日的几天时间，丰年农业都在催促询问。
For a few days, on May 15-18, FengNian Agriculture was urging questioning.
19日上午，逐鹿文化则通过中间人“范总”告诉丰年农业总经理徐道恒，额温枪已经发货，“昨晚工人拿到顺丰点了”。
19 morning, deer culture through the middleman "Fan boss" told FengNian agricultural general manager Xu Daoheng, forehead temperature guns have been shipped, "workers got a good last night."
徐道恒询问具体发货数量时，范总表示“先给安排90（支）。
Xu Daoheng asked about the specific quantity shipped, Fan said "to arrange 90 (branch) first.
”徐道恒询问剩下的110只什么时候可以安排发货，对方则表示“预计在25日内发完。
"Xu asked when the remaining 110 items would be ready for shipment, saying" they are expected to be finished within 25 days.
”几天时间，对一般物资或许并不算久，但对疫区则意义不同。
A few days may not be long for the average good, but it means different things to the affected areas.
淅河镇是随州最大一镇，感染情况每天都在变化，镇内56个村委都在焦急等待物资。
The town of Saituhe, the largest town in Suizhou, is experiencing daily changes in infection, with 56 villagers waiting anxiously for supplies.
丰年农业讨论后觉得，时间拖得太久了，剩余110只还是另找渠道。
FengNian agriculture after the discussion felt that the time has been too long, the remaining 110 are still looking for alternative channels.
而中间人范总也爽快答应，会把110只额温枪的37950元退还给公司。
And the middleman Fan Zong also readily agreed, will 110 forehead warm gun 37950 yuan return to the company.
当天，逐鹿文化却经由范总将51750元（150支额温枪的钱）退到了丰年农业的账户上。
On the same day, deer-fighting culture through Fan will be 51,750 yuan (150 warm gun money) back to the account of FengNian agriculture.
财务徐莉莎考虑到，一定是逐鹿文化多退了钱，于是又通过银行将13800元（40支额温枪的钱）返还了逐鹿文化。
Finance Xu Lisa thought that the deer culture must have returned the money, and then through the bank 13, 800 yuan (40 warm gun money) back to deer-oriented culture.
可是，直到20日曾女士将发货单号和发货内容转发给徐莉莎查验时，徐莉莎才明白过来，其实逐鹿文化发给他们的货物，并非90支，而是50支。
However, it was not until the 20th day that Ms. Zeng forwarded the invoice number and the contents of the shipment to Xu Lisa for inspection that Xu realized that the deer-by-deer culture had given them not 90 but 50 goods.
价格一天数变，节节攀升“当时真的太忙了，都在找货，所以很乱。
Price is changing day by day. It was really busy looking for goods, so it was very messy.
”对于告知发货数量与实际发货数量不符的问题，丰年农业方面觉得理解，特殊时期，大家相互支持，忙碌时发生差错也是难免。
"Regarding the problem of telling the quantity shipped does not correspond to the actual quantity shipped, FengNian agriculture felt understanding that in special times, people support each other, and mistakes are unavoidable when they are busy.
但随后发生的事，却令她越来越头疼。
But the events that followed gave her more and more headaches.
20日午间，曾女士曾在微信里告诉过徐莉莎，发往淅河镇的这批货，自己下单订购都要500元/支了。
At noon on the 20th, Ms. Zeng told Xu Lisa in a micro-letter to the town of Xia he sent the goods, their own order to pay 500 yuan / expenditure.
“你们给的300，我（进货）给的500。
300 you gave me, I gave you 500.
”而针对丰年农业误转的13800元，丰年农业方面则希望，逐鹿文化可以再发40支额温枪到淅河镇，以抵消这批误转货款；或者发货150支到淅河镇，由丰年农业补齐差价。
In response to the 13,800 yuan misdirection in bumper farming, FengNian hopes that the deer-fighting culture will issue another 40 warm guns to the city to offset the transfer price, or send 150 units to Xilihe town, where the price difference will be filled by FengNian agriculture.
针对价格问题，20日下午6点，曾女士向徐莉莎呈现了一份总数达10000支、总额达4250000元的大额订单，并表示“亲亲，明天1万支，价格都是425。
On the price issue, at 6: 00 pm on the 20th, Ms. Zeng presented Xu Lisa with a total of 10,000 large orders amounting to 4250,000 yuan, and said, "kiss, tomorrow 10,000 units, price is 425.
”考虑到物资较紧，即使425元/支，能买到已经是不错了，丰年农业选择补钱加购。
Given the tight supplies, it would be nice to be able to buy even 425 yuan per unit.
但下午7点半，曾女士发来的待补差价数额，却令徐莉莎觉得，“怎么又贵了”——62300元。
But at 7: 30 p.m., Ms. Zeng sent the amount of the difference, but let Xu Lisa feel, "Why is it expensive" - 62,300 yuan.
徐莉莎一算，“相当于第一批50支按照500元/支收费，后面加订的150支按照455-460元/支收费。
Xu Li-sha calculated, "equivalent to the first 50 according to 500 yuan per charge, after the 150 according to 455 - 460 yuan per charge.
”徐莉莎觉得，6点多时是425元/支，短短一个多小时过去，价格就贵了。
Xu Lisha felt that the price was 425 yuan per unit for more than six o'clock, which was more than an hour later.
此后，她又询问了几家不同渠道，有的报价390元/支，有的报价440元/支，但实际上都是没货供应。
Since then, she has asked several different sources, either quoted 390 yuan per unit, or 440 yuan per unit, but the actual supply is out of stock.
21日下午2点左右，徐莉莎请曾女士把收款账号发给她，但此时徐莉莎得知价格方案又有新变化——之前误转的13800元，拿出一部分抵扣第一批50支的差价，剩余为5000元；如果继续补购，则按照500元/支的价格计算。
At about 2: 00 p.m. on the 21st, Ms. Tsui asked Ms. Zeng to give her the account number, but by this time Xu had learned that there had been a new change in the pricing plan - the previously misdirected $13,800 had been set off against the difference of the first 50 pieces, leaving a balance of $5,000; if the purchase continued, it was calculated at $500 / expense.
徐莉莎计算了一下，那相当于第一批已发货的50支单价，从开始的345元涨到了521元。
Xu calculated that it was the equivalent of the first shipment of 50 unit prices, from 345 yuan to 521 yuan.
如若计划继续加订，单价也从昨天的425元/支、455元/支，涨到了今天的500元/支。
If the plan continues to be added, the unit price also rose from 425 yuan / expenditure, 455 yuan / expenditure yesterday to 500 yuan / expenditure today.
订货的客户太多，有货的商家极少，丰年农业既担心买不到货，也担心后续价格还会上涨，于是按照这一价格，补齐了第一批货的差价，并加购了40支。
With too many customers and too few merchants available, and fearing neither buying nor future price increases, FengNian Agriculture made up the difference in the first lot and bought 40 more.
卖方回应：本为帮助疫区，接受退货退款记者联系到逐鹿文化的负责人曾女士。
Seller's response: This is to help the affected areas, to accept the refund of returned goods reporter contact the head of Deer culture Zeng.
曾女士向记者表示，自己对此真的十分无奈，“从头到尾是抱着善意在做这件事。
Ms. Zeng told reporters that she was really helpless about this, "from the beginning to the end is to do it with good intentions.
”曾女士介绍，自身并非额温枪生产企业。
Ms Zeng said she was not a manufacturer of hand guns.
疫情期间，逐鹿文化原本是协助政府采购，政府委托函、合同订单均合法合规、有据可查。
During the epidemic period, deer culture was originally to assist the government procurement, government letters of entrustment, contract orders are legal and documented.
2月13日，曾女士从朋友范总处得知，随州市淅河镇急缺额温枪物资，范总是随州人，希望她能帮助随州购买一些物资。
On February 13, Ms. Zeng learned from her friend Fan General Office that Suizhou City Xilihe urgent shortage of warm gun supplies, Fan is always from the state, hope she can help buy some supplies.
考虑到求购者正处湖北疫区，她自己既然能接触到生产厂家，或许能帮上点忙，才决定协助购买发货。
Considering that the buyer was in an epidemic area in Hubei province, she decided to assist in the purchase of the goods, perhaps because she had access to the manufacturer.
但随后一段时间的情况证明，不少额温枪生产企业产能受限，红外传感器等生产原料缺乏，即使原本已经付款下单的订单，都无法顺利出厂发货，厂家只能做退款处理。
However, for some time to come, it has proved that many enterprises producing frontal temperature guns have limited production capacity, lack of raw materials such as infrared sensors, even if the order has been paid for, can not be shipped smoothly, manufacturers can only do refund processing.
“（市面上）买不到货，生产厂家的订单也出不来货。
The goods are not available and orders from the manufacturer are not available.
”因为实在帮不上忙，曾女士希望，能退款给淅河当地的购买者，由他们另寻渠道；但购买者方面，还是希望曾女士能发来物资。
Unable to help, Ms Zeng hopes to get a refund to the local buyers who can find another way to get there, but the buyer still wants Ms. Zeng to send in the supplies.
催促之下，迫于无奈，“最终我们高价从别人手上拿了一部分货，再发到淅河“；“不仅没有赚差价，反而自己贴进去不少。
Urged, forced by helplessness, "eventually we took a high price from other people's hands, and then sent to the river"; "Not only did not earn the difference, on the contrary, their own into many.
”而针对额温枪的价格，曾女士告诉记者，“7天之前可能是200多，但现在拿这个价格到药房、任何地方，都是不可能买到的。
Ms Zeng told reporters about the price of a frontal-temperature gun: "It could have been more than 200 seven days ago, but now it's impossible to buy it at a pharmacy or anywhere.
”至于徐丽莎反映的涨价问题，曾女士表示，价格问题是双方已经协商同意，把差额结算清楚了，后续也会将协议补给她。
As for Xu Lisa's response to the price increase, Ms Zeng said the price issue was that the two sides had agreed to settle the difference and would later supply her with the agreement.
“如果对于价格、产品、货品仍然存在疑问，可以申请将货物退回，作退款处理。
"If there is still doubt about the price, product or item, you may apply for a refund for the goods.
”徐莉莎、曾女士心中都难免觉得无奈，一方是抱着服务村镇的心理做捐助，一方则是想协助疫区购买物资，没想到大家看着价格节节攀高，都忙得“满头大汗”。
"Xu Lisa, Ms. Zeng inevitably feel helpless, on the one hand, with the psychology of serving villages and towns to make donations, on the other hand is to help the affected areas to buy supplies, unexpectedly everyone watched the price rise, are busy" sweating.
“小众产品”突然成为“硬通货”事实上，额温枪以往一直是一个需求稳定且小众的产品。
"Mong products" suddenly became "hard currency" In fact, the forehead has been a stable and small number of demand products.
进入额温枪市场5年的天波教育董事长何全近期在接受媒体采访中提到，“额温枪其实是个小众市场，此前全国一年的需求大约20万到30万台。
'The frontal-temperature guns are a small market, 'He Quan, chairman of Tianbo Education, who entered the market for five years, said in a recent interview.
”但新冠肺炎疫情，使得额温枪这一“小众产品”突然进入“大众视野”。
But the outbreak of pneumonia in the new crown brought the "small crowd" of frontal-temperature guns into the public eye.
由于非接触、测量快，额温枪成为疫情中最受欢迎的测温仪。
Due to non-contact and fast measurement, frontal temperature gun has become the most popular thermometer in epidemic situation.
何全估计，“现在（额温枪）需求增加了10倍以上。
"Demand [for frontal-temperature guns] has increased more than tenfold," he estimates.
”额温枪的“骤热”，从网民群体对额温枪的搜索指数中也可见端倪。
The "sudden heat" of the frontal-temperature gun is also evident in the Internet population's search index for the lance.
百度指数显示， 1月20日之后，额温枪的搜索量快速上涨，搜索热度高速抬升。
After Jan. 20, the search for frontal-temperature guns soared, with search fever soaring, according to the Baidu index.
（数据来源：百度指数）厂家苦衷：产能提升遇瓶颈需求量快速上涨，但在供应方面，额温枪与口罩、消毒水等防疫物资不同，生产一台额温枪需要上百个不同组件，即使组装线的产能能够快速增加，但核心组件芯片产能的提升却需要更长时间，这也限制了额温枪产能在短期内的快速提升。
(Source: Baidu Index) (Baidu Index) Manufacturers' Pain: Demand for capacity growth is rising rapidly, but on the supply side, unlike respirators and disinfectants, which require hundreds of different components to produce a frontal-temperature gun, it takes longer to upgrade core component chip capacity, which limits a rapid increase in frontline capacity in the short term.
曾女士向记者透露，当前，广东生产的额温枪占据国内额温枪市场的较大份额，其中又以深圳、东莞两地生产企业为多。
Ms. Zeng told reporters that, at present, Guangdong produces a larger share of the domestic market, which is more than Shenzhen, Dongguan production enterprises.
记者以“额温枪”为关键词在天眼查进行初级检索，显示有相关企业45家，其中广东就占到了31家。
Reporter "frontal temperature gun" as the key word in the sky-eye search for primary search, there are 45 enterprises, Guangdong alone accounted for 31.
而曾女士表示，自己联系的深圳额温枪生产厂家，就遭遇到红外传感器等核心组件供应不足的问题，以至产能提升受限。
But Ms. Zeng said that she contacted the manufacturer of the Shenzhen Erwen gun, encountered a shortage of infrared sensors and other core components, so that the capacity to improve.
在医疗设备吧等信息平台中进行检索，也可以看到，近日出现了大量额温枪配件供应和额温枪生产的相关内容。
A search of information platforms, such as medical equipment bars, also reveals the recent emergence of a large number of components supplied with frontal temperature guns and related content of frontal temperature gun production.
不少生产厂家反映缺乏生产配件，也有企业表示有部分配件，但没有生产资质。
Many manufacturers reported a lack of production accessories, but also enterprises said that there are parts, but no production qualifications.
突然增大的需求，和有限的供应，使得国内额温枪市场呈现“供不应求”的态势。
The sudden increase in demand, and limited supply, makes the domestic frontal temperature gun market appears to be "in short supply" situation.
线下的药店、药房购买不到，线上途径同样难寻。
Underline pharmacies, pharmacies can not buy, online access is equally difficult to find.
2月24日，记者在淘宝、京东等平台进行咨询，商家也普遍回应缺货。
February 24, reporters in Taobao, Jingdong and other platforms for consultation, businesses also generally respond to the shortage of goods.
有部分商家表示，预售已经排到5月，也有少许商家表示有货，但2个医用护目镜、1盒手套和1个额温计的套餐价格已经达到749元。
Some businesses said that the pre-sale has been arranged until May, a few businessmen said there are goods, but 2 medical goggles, a box of gloves and 1 forehead thermometer package price has reached 749 yuan.
不少购买者转求其他通道，通过熟人介绍、人肉代购等方式“求货”。
Many buyers turn to other channels, through acquaintances, human flesh buying methods such as "ask for goods."
此外，由于企业、用户额温枪购买需求迫切，疫情期间又多以网络转账、物流发货等方式进行线上交易，遭遇诈骗者也不在少数。
In addition, due to the urgent need to purchase enterprise, user frontal temperature gun, during the epidemic period, more network transfer, logistics delivery, and other means of online transactions, there are also many fraudsters.
伴随着全产业链复工后零配件供应的回升和成本下降，额温枪的市场供应和价格或将逐步回归常态。
With the recovery of the supply of spare parts and the reduction of costs, the market supply and price of Ethernet guns may gradually return to normal.
来源｜南都周刊END欢迎分享到朋友圈，如想取得授权请邮件：newmedia@nbweekly.com。
http: / / www.youtheme.cnYouTheme (wwwyoutheme.cn) Welcome to your circle of friends and if you want authorization, please email newmedia @ nbweekly.com.
如果想找到小南，可以在后台回复「小南」试试看哦~ 。
If you want to find Xiao Nan, you can reply to "Xiao Nan" in the background.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一“枪”难求，买额温枪遭遇连环涨。
A "gun" difficult to get, buy a thermostat encountered a chain rise.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "南都周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "一“枪”难求，买额温枪遭遇连环涨";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "价格一天数变，节节攀升";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; day in and day out.
var title ="南都周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
