前线女性医护是否真的需要安心裤？是的，非常需要。
Do frontline women really need comfort pants? Yes, they do.
刘田。
Liu Tian.
南都周刊                      。
Nandu Weekly.
南都周刊。
Nandu Weekly.
有温度的新媒体。
New media with temperature.
观看网上流传的防护服穿脱流程视频时，女生梁钰下意识对此产生疑问，不吃不喝可以减少上厕所，那么来月经的时候，女性医护人员怎么办？文 | 刘田 编辑 | 沈小山一天，女生梁钰在观看网上流传的防护服穿脱流程视频，有一个细节让她印象深刻：为了延长一次性防护服的使用寿命，医护人员们不吃不喝，只为减少上厕所的频率。
When watching the online video of protective clothing passing through the process, the girl, Liang Yu, raised a question about the possibility of not eating or drinking enough to reduce the need to use the toilet. One day, Liang Yu watched a video of female health-care workers during menstruation.
作为一个女生，梁钰下意识产生疑问：不吃不喝可以减少上厕所，那么来月经的时候，女性医护人员怎么办？“感同身受”让他们看见女性的困境2月6日晚，梁钰在微博上向网友提出了自己的疑问：“前线医护人员的卫生巾和考拉裤还够吗？这么多的女性医护人员是如何解决她们月经期问题啊？现在防护服不够，想必也是一片卫生巾用一天，也很容易感染吧。
As a female student, Liang Yu subconsciously asked: Do not eat or drink can reduce the toilet, then how to menstruation female health-care workers? "Feel the plight of women?" So many female health-care workers to solve their menstrual problems?
”一心关注前线女性劳动者的梁钰，自己首先通过淘宝行动起来。
"Liang Yu, who focuses solely on female workers in the front line, first took action through Taobao.
一家一家地联系发货地是湖北的商家，当时正值春节期间，因为需求量大，反复协商后，商家才同意接单，找工人开仓打包进行调配。
One by one, the point of shipment is Hubei businessmen, at that time during the Spring Festival, because the demand is large, repeatedly negotiated, the merchant agreed to take orders, find workers to open the warehouse and deploy.
“感同身受”，这四个字，让梁钰的呼声很快得到了同样关注女性劳动者的其他人的响应。
"Empathy," these four words, let Liang Yu's voice quickly received the same attention to other female workers.
“众筹也可以的，我们每个人献出点力量，链接在哪里。
"Crowdfunding can also, we each contribute a bit of strength, where the link.
”“能尽一点力就一点！特殊时期大家都难，但是相互帮助的力量也很大。
"" Just a little bit! Everyone is hard in special times, but the power to help each other is great.
”“可以的话，算上我一份。
'Count me in, if you please.
小力量虽然微弱但也有光。
The little power, though weak, has light.
”2月7日起，陆续有志愿者选择加入梁钰，与她一起协商与前线的女性工作人员对接，募捐以卫生巾、考拉裤为主的女性卫生用品。
Since February 7, volunteers have been joining Liang Yu to negotiate with her on docking with female frontline staff to solicit female hygiene products, mainly sanitary napkins and koalas.
作为发起人的梁钰，将众人对一线女性劳动者的关注，命名为“姐妹战疫安心行动”。
As the initiator, Liang Yu, the first-line female workers will be concerned about the name of "Sisters in War Safe Operation."
活动宣传的海报，在设计上，“姐妹战疫安心行动”的宣传团队采用了大面积的蓝色，选择了有棱有角的字体，并且将醒目的红色卫生巾图标嵌入其中。
The campaign poster was designed with a large area of blue, angular font and a bold red sanitary napkin icon embedded in the Sisterhood Safe campaign team.
2月11日晚7点52分，梁钰的团队联合灵山慈善基金会发起“姐妹战疫安心行动”公开募捐活动，募捐资金主要为前线女性医护人员提供生理期及其他卫生用品。
At 7: 52 pm on Feb. 11, Leung's team launched the "Sisters in Peace Campaign" public fundraising campaign with Lingshan Charity Foundation. The fund-raising fund mainly provides physiological period and other sanitary articles for front-line female medical staff.
12日早9点12分，该次公募就以总额2,355,051.96元筹满结束，超原定筹款目标89,996.96元。
At 9: 12 a.m. on the 12th, the public offering ended in a total of $2,355,051.96, exceeding the original fundraising target of $89,996.96.
12日当晚，短短的八天内，不间断地连轴转下，“姐妹战疫安心行动”这支48个人的小团队，在与医院、物流、品牌方以及团体组织沟通周转的同时，就已达成累计协调捐赠安心裤172,216条，女士一次性内裤3,120条，卫生巾7,880片，护手霜700支。
On the night of the 12th, within eight short days, the 48-person Sisters Against the Battle of Epidemic, a small team of 48 people, reached a cumulative coordinated donation of 172,216 comfort pants, 3,120 disposable underwear for women, 7,880 sanitary towels and 700 hand cream units while communicating with hospitals, logistics, brand names and corporate organizations.
根据最新公开的明细，在活动发起的第十八天，截止2月25日，增员至70人的“姐妹战疫安心行动”团队，总共为一线女性医护人员募捐及协调捐赠共计：安心裤421,389条、一次性内裤303,939条、卫生巾77,592片、护手霜700支，覆盖109家（支）医院和医疗队、超6,400人。
According to the latest published details, on the eighteenth day of the campaign, as of 25 February, the additional 70-member Sisterhood Safe Action team collected and coordinated a total of 421,389 items of comfort pants, 303,939 pieces of disposable underwear, 77,592 sanitary towels, 700 hand cream, covering 109 hospitals and medical teams, and more than 6,400 people.
此外，还已协调9个品牌4个团体11人次个人捐赠。
In addition, 11 individual donations have been coordinated for 9 brands and 4 groups.
一线女性遭遇了“月经困境”自2月6日发起活动以来，排山倒海向梁钰而来的，除了踊跃响应的热心网友的消息，还有来自各方的求助信息。
First-line women have encountered "menstrual dilemma" since the February 6 campaign, Liang Yu, in addition to enthusiastic response to the news, but also from all sides of the help information.
2月10日，收到捐赠信息的医护人员表示，“有卫生巾就更好啦，卫生巾翻3倍吧，我们从来不发呢。
On February 10, the medical staff who received the donation said, "the better to have sanitary towel, three times more sanitary towel, we never hair.
”2月11日，江汉方舱医院护士向她求助称，“我们组是9个女，1个男，这两天两个同事来大姨妈，特别煎熬。
"Our group of nine women and a man came to my aunt from two colleagues over the past two days," said Jiang Han, a nurse at the Fangkang Hospital who asked for help.
我们从海南带的几片尿不湿也就剩两三片了，我同事今天血跟尿都混在一起了。
There are only two or three pieces of urine we took from Hainan. My colleague's blood is mixed with urine today.
太难了。
It's too difficult.
”梁钰微博公开的微信聊天记录显示，求助的医护人员除了自身需求之外，还有不少是为了患者急需，“实话跟你说，我们小分队领了也是给患者用，因为患者实在急用。
"In addition to their own needs, there is a lot of urgent need," said Liang Yu's open microphone chat. "To be honest with you, our team received it for patients who were in urgent need.
病人的安心裤现在也得医院和医护人员想办法。
Patients' comfort pants now have to be worked out by hospitals and paramedics.
”2月12日晚，梁钰团队统计，光是主动向他们求助的就有140多家医院。
On the night of Feb. 12, more than 140 hospitals approached them for help alone, according to Leung's team.
主要以湖北省省内的医院为主，也有几家河南的医院。
Mainly in Hubei province hospitals, there are also several hospitals in Henan.
梁钰团队所募捐到的资金和物资，在面对上百家医院的医护人员的需求时，不过沧海一粟。
The fund-raising and materials collected by Liang Yu's team are only a drop in the bucket when it comes to meeting the needs of medical staff in hundreds of hospitals.
实际上的缺口，仍然比她最初设想的还要夸张。
The actual gap was still larger than she had first imagined.
梁钰还从前线医务人员处得知，前线为了严格落实消毒隔离制度，在进入方舱之后，医护人员需要更换全部衣物，其中也包括内衣裤。
Dr Leung also learned from frontline medical staff that in order to strictly implement the disinfection isolation system, after entering the cabin, medical staff will need to change all the clothes, including underwear.
环境受限，无法晾干，又没有足够换洗的内衣裤，不穿内衣裤，成了医护人员不得而为之的选择。
Limited environment, can not dry, there is not enough laundry underwear, do not wear underwear, medical staff should not be the choice.
对于月经期的女性医护工作者而言，血尿混合还不是最糟糕的情况。
For menstrual female health care workers, hematuria mixing is not the worst.
有医护人员向梁钰的团队称，“有尿不湿就用尿不湿，不透气也没办法，就捂着。
Some medical personnel to Liang Yu's team said, "there is no wet urine, not wet, breathless and no way, covering.
起码现在有你们的号召没有人再顶着带血的防护服走了。
At least now there's a call No one's wearing a bloody suit anymore.
”“姐妹战疫安心行动”的呼声，将一线女性的“月经困境”现状带到了众人的视线之内。
"Sisterhood epidemic peace of mind action" voice, will first-line women's "menstrual predicament" status quo into the public eye.
但是，“月经羞辱”却让“姐妹战疫安心行动”面对不少的质疑。
But, "menstruation humiliates" but let "sisterhood disease peace of mind action" faces a lot of doubt.
“为什么用卫生巾做标题，不能写“卫生用品”吗？”“防护用品缺口这么大，你怎么还关心’裤裆里的事’？”“卫生巾需要如此频繁地更换吗？”“为什么不采用不适感更小的卫生棉条？”“为什么不注射黄体酮？”“直接吃避孕药不行吗？”对此，“姐妹战疫安心行动”团队选择了一一详细作答，并且表示，“作为正常的生理现象，月经和吃饭、睡觉一样是我们生活中的一部分。
Why are sanitary napkins not written in sanitary napkins? Why do you care about crotch changes so often? Why don't you use the less comfortless tampons? The Sisters Safe Action team chose to respond in detail, saying that menstruation is as much a part of our lives as eating and sleeping as normal a physical phenomenon.
不羞耻，不避讳，不污名化，才是我们对待她的正确态度。
No shame, no taboo, no stigma, is our correct attitude to her.
”连轴转的十九天，无暇顾及的质疑事实上，比起质疑账目款项是否透明，最初在梁钰的微博下的常见质疑，反而是“前线女性医护是否真的需要安心裤”。
In fact, the 19-day dizzying question was, in fact, "Do frontline women really need reassurance pants," as opposed to the usual questions about the transparency of accounts.
根据河南职工医学院学报2012年4月期刊，“女性月经期间身体比平时更加脆弱，如果使用了不符合卫生标准的卫生巾，就很容易发生感染。
According to the April 2012 issue of the Journal of Henan Workers' Medical College, "women are more vulnerable during menstruation than usual and can easily become infected if sanitary napkins are used.
”事实上，“普通卫生巾连续使用2小时后，表层细菌总数可达每平方厘米107个。
In fact, "the total number of surface bacteria can reach 107 per square centimetre after two hours of continuous use.
”因此，该文中专家建议，“女性在经期使用卫生巾，最好每2-4h更换1次，即使在经血量少的时候，也应该及时更换，这样才能保证敏感部位的洁净卫生。
Therefore, the article recommends that "women use sanitary towels during menstruation, preferably every 2-4 hours, even when menstrual blood volume is low, should be replaced in time to ensure clean and hygienic sensitive parts.
”长沙市第一医院妇产科主任医师杨苏安也在微博发布的科普视频中解释，正常情况女性应该每两小时更换一次卫生巾。
Yang Su-an, chief obstetrician-gynaecologist at Changsha First Hospital, also explained in a popular science video posted on Weibo that women should change sanitary towels every two hours.
身处于疫区的医护人员，穿上防护服后，由于不能喝水，不能上厕所，行动困难，只能十个小时，或者更长时间更换。
Medical staff in affected areas, after wearing protective clothing, can not drink water, can not go to the toilet, movement difficulties, can only be changed for 10 hours, or more.
除了体感不适，当医护人员出现血尿混合的情况时，也容易出现泌尿和上行感染。
In addition to physical discomfort, when the health care personnel have mixed cases of hematuria, also prone to urinary and upper infection.
在防护服穿脱流程复杂，物资仍然紧缺的当下，每两小时到四小时换一次卫生巾显然是种奢侈。
Changing sanitary towels every two to four hours is obviously a luxury at a time when the process of wearing protective clothing is complex and supplies are still scarce.
根据“姐妹安心战疫行动”的调查问卷数据，50%的女性医务工作者每天穿防护服8小时以上。
According to data from the Sisters in Peace Campaign questionnaire, 50 per cent of female health workers wear protective clothing for more than eight hours a day.
“说实话，我真的很忙，就是已经忙到没有什么时间去听到那些质疑了，每天就想着怎么弄到更到的货，怎么能解决物流给送去。
"To tell you the truth, I'm really busy, I don't have enough time to hear the questions, I think about how to get more goods every day, how to solve the logistics to deliver.
”梁钰表示，疫情当前，忙碌让团队里的大多数人都变得饮食作息不规律。
"Liang Yu said the current epidemic, busy so that most people in the team have become irregular diet and sleep.
而她自己更是连日来每天只有三四小时的睡眠。
And she herself had only three or four hours of sleep a day.
“大家主要还是想着怎么样努力齐心协力把事情做好。
"The main thing is to think about how we can work together to get things done.
”旁人的质疑变得微不足道，物资的巨大缺口和交通管制下的物流时效性，让他们的视线更多关注在哪里还缺物资，怎么募集物资，又怎样尽快把物资送到一线。
Others "questions become trivial, their material gaps and logistics timeliness under traffic control make them more concerned about where they still lack supplies, how to raise supplies, and how to get supplies to the front as quickly as possible.
“我们整体的团队以及对接碰到的全国的志愿者都是还蛮专业也很负责的，所以我总觉得大多数的问题尽管当时觉得很辛苦，但是总是努努力还是能一起过去的。
"Our whole team and the volunteers from all over the country were professional and responsible, so I always thought most of the problems would be solved together, even though it was hard work at the time.
就是缺口太大，我们缺钱缺物资，希望能帮助更多的人吧。
Is the gap is too large, we lack of money and supplies, hope to help more people bar.
”2月21日，梁钰发微博表示，“从开始到现在，大多数团队志愿者都经历了月经期。
"From the start to the present, most of the team volunteers have gone through menstruation," said Liang's microblogger on Feb. 21.
大家常说的就是“妈呀我现在都想死了，前线女医护现在还要穿着又闷又重的防护服，用着会侧漏无法更换的超闷卫生巾可多难受啊，我们要更努力帮帮姐妹们。
It is often said that "Mom, I want to die now, the front-line medical women now have to wear boring and heavy protective clothing, with the side leakage can not replace the super-stuffy sanitary towel ah, ah, we should do more to help sisters.
所以其实质疑是根本不会影响到我们做这件事情的决心，我们的动力也不会有什么消减。
So in fact, the doubt will not affect our determination to do this thing, our motivation will not be reduced.
”受梁钰的团队影响，除了企业和个人捐赠的加入，自疫情爆发以来，就活跃在募捐物资前线的百家粉丝团联盟也联合为一线的女性医护人员捐赠了共计5,100条安心裤。
"Under the influence of Leung's team, in addition to donations from companies and individuals, the hundreds of fan clubs active in the front line of fund-raising materials since the outbreak of the epidemic have donated a total of 5,100 slacks to front-line women health care workers.
2月24日，艺人王菊通过“姐妹安心战疫行动”，公开为华中科技大学同济医院（光谷）捐赠了7.2万条卫生巾，1.02万条安心裤。
On Feb. 24, artist Wang Ju donated 72,000 sanitary towels and 10,200 slacks to Tongji Hospital (Guanggu) of Huazhong University of Science and Technology.
梁钰发微博称，王菊之所以通过“姐妹安心战疫行动”进行捐赠，是希望能够加入他们，“可以让更多的人关注到姐妹们的需求，关注到一线女性医护工作者的需求”。
Mr Leung said Mr Wang's donation through "Operation Sisters in Peace against the Battle of Epidemic" was intended to help "bring more attention to the needs of sisters and the needs of frontline women health workers."
据CGTN报道，全国驰援武汉的医护人员现有3.2万余人，在湖北省抗疫一线的女性医护人员超10万人。
According to CGTN, Wuhan now has more than 32,000 medical personnel, and more than 100,000 women are on the frontlines of the epidemic in Hubei Province.
一线医生半数为女性，而超过90%的护士同样为女性。
Half of the front-line doctors were women, while more than 90 per cent of nurses were also women.
今天是2月26日，武汉封城35天。
Today is Feb. 26, Wuhan Seal 35 days.
一个健康女性的月经周期，在临床上通常为21天至35天，平均为28天。
A healthy woman's menstrual cycle is typically 21 to 35 days clinically, with an average of 28 days.
如果没有特殊情况，那么身处于一线的绝大多数女性，都至少经历了一次月经期。
If no special circumstances, then the majority of women in the front line, have experienced at least one menstrual period.
湖北省2010年第六次全国人口普查主要数据公报显示，全省常住人口中，女性为27,844,820人，占总人口的48.65%。
The main data communiqués of the sixth national census in Hubei Province in 2010 showed that 27,844,820 women, or 48.65 per cent of the total population, were resident in the province.
而全省15-64岁的人口为44,070,111人，占总人口的77.00%。
This compares with 44,070,111 people aged 15-64 in the province, representing 77.00 percent of the total population.
前线的她们，也许正在经历我们当下本不该有的“月经困境”。
On the front lines, they may be experiencing the "menstrual dilemma" that we should not have at the moment.
来源｜南都周刊END欢迎分享到朋友圈，如想取得授权请邮件：newmedia@nbweekly.com。
http: / / www.youtheme.cnYouTheme (wwwyoutheme.cn) Welcome to your circle of friends and if you want authorization, please email newmedia @ nbweekly.com.
如果想找到小南，可以在后台回复「小南」试试看哦~ 。
If you want to find Xiao Nan, you can reply to "Xiao Nan" in the background.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
前线女性医护是否真的需要安心裤？是的，非常需要。
Do frontline women really need comfort pants? Yes, they do.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "南都周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "前线女性医护是否真的需要安心裤？是的，非常需要";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Did frontline women really need comfort pants? Yes, at least & quot;
var msg_desc = "“姐妹战疫安心行动”的呼声，将一线女性的“月经困境”现状带到了众人的视线之内。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="南都周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
