武汉人买菜的真实图景。
The real picture of Wuhan people buying vegetables.
谢婵。
Xie Chan.
南都周刊                      。
Nandu Weekly.
南都周刊。
Nandu Weekly.
有温度的新媒体。
New media with temperature.
他们理解小区被封，理解只能选择被塞了四大包汤圆的团购套餐，理解菜价成倍上涨，理解要继续忍受生活上的不便，才有可能早一点等来结束的一天。
They understood that the community was sealed, that the only option was to cancel the four-pack dumpling package, understand that the price of vegetables multiplied, and that to continue to endure the inconvenience of life, it would be possible to wait until the end of the day.
文 | 谢婵 编辑 | 小豆武汉伢王嘉兴给父母打电话，得知小区业主群里推荐的100元的蔬菜套餐，平日里只需70元。
Xie Jiaxing, the daughter-in-law editor and daughter-in-law, telephoned her parents and learned that the 100-yuan vegetable package recommended by the small-business owners' group cost only 70 yuan a day.
他挂了电话一算，几乎涨了50％。
When he hung up the phone, it was up almost 50%.
“武汉嫂子汉骂”视频火了后，他在手机上查了武汉某超市公布的菜价：西红柿8.5元/斤，肉涨到了40–50元/斤……这个年轻人在自己的社交账号上记录这些生活的琐碎，“我只能安慰自己，我们终于不再被每天生生死死的微博淹没，可以开始关注吃饭的问题了。
"Wuhan sister-in-law" video fire, he found a supermarket in Wuhan announced the price of vegetables: tomatoes 8.50 yuan per catty, meat rose to 40-50 yuan per catty... "I can only comfort myself that we are finally no longer drowned by the daily death of Weibo, can start to pay attention to the issue of food.
”对于被困住的千万武汉人来说，几乎所有人都理解特殊时期的特殊性。
For the tens of millions of Wuhan people trapped, almost all understand the particularities of a particular period.
他们理解小区被封，理解只能选择被塞了四大包汤圆的团购套餐，理解菜价成倍上涨，理解要继续忍受生活上的不便，才有可能早一点等来结束的一天。
They understood that the community was sealed, that the only option was to cancel the four-pack dumpling package, understand that the price of vegetables multiplied, and that to continue to endure the inconvenience of life, it would be possible to wait until the end of the day.
2月24日，在武汉市百步亭社区龙庭小区，居民用手机支付购买其订购的货品。
On February 24, residents paid for their purchases on mobile phones in the Long Ting district of the Bumbuting community in Wuhan.
（新华社发）定闹钟也抢不到配送名额程维每天都定闹钟，但从没抢到过盒马鲜生的配送名额。
Cheng Wei set alarm clocks every day, but he never grabbed a box of places for Ma Xiansheng's distribution.
他说，商品列表的消失速度就像俄罗斯方块来了一根竖条那么快。
He said the list of goods disappeared as fast as a vertical bar from Tetris.
白鹏则把抢盒马鲜生配送类比为:和SNKRS(耐克官方APP)上抢一双AJ差不多，天天陪跑。
Peng Bai and seize the box Horse fresh distribution analogy: and SNKRS (Nike official APP) a pair of AJ, daily running.
封城后，交通管制和小区封锁政策接踵而至。
After the closure of the city, traffic control and community blockade policy followed.
线上买菜成为主要渠道。
Buy vegetables online as the main channel.
2月11日，苏樟妈妈的小区群开始流行微信群接龙团购。
On Feb. 11, the community group of Cinnamomum camphor began to popular micro-groups to buy dragon groups.
他们加了一堆微信群，有些是按照商超品牌区别，有些是按照购物种类区分。
They add a bunch of micro-groups, some in accordance with the commercial super-brand distinction, some by the type of shopping.
小区物业告诉他们，现在大大小小的团购群有30个，几乎都是由商家自己建立的。
Residential property tells them, large and small groups now have 30, almost all established by businesses themselves.
小区物业曾经给苏樟妈妈推荐过一个买菜小程序。
The plot property once recommended a small procedure to sassafras mother to buy vegetables.
小程序买肉得1000元起送，但苏樟年前受疫情影响没敢回家，家里就两个人，根本吃不了那么多肉。
Small procedures to buy meat from 1000 yuan to send, but the impact of the outbreak of Cinnamomum camphor did not dare to go home, the family only two people, simply can not eat so much meat.
苏樟研究了一番，才弄明白如何通过线上购菜渠道下单。
It was only after studying this paper that we found out how to order through the online purchase channel.
她远程下单，父母再全副武装去指定地点取菜。
She ordered the food remotely, and the parents were armed to pick it up at a designated place.
她有时候也想：“家里如果只有老人，真不知道该怎么买菜。
She sometimes thought to herself, "If there are only old people in the house, I don't know how to buy food.
”帮爸妈线上买菜的年轻人：加100元红包才有人送刘逸17号那天通过饿了么骑手给父母买了一次菜。
Young people helping their parents buy vegetables online: Add 100 yuan in red envelopes before someone sends Liu Yi 17.
那是朋友教她的方法，朋友嘱咐，给骑手发200元红包，会有人接单的。
That is the way her friends teach her, friends charge, to the rider issued 200 yuan red envelopes, someone will take orders.
他们家小区只有两栋楼，没几户人家在，在社区工作人员介入前，业主们自己怎么也凑不够团购起送需要达到的订单数量。
There were only two buildings in their neighborhood, and few families were there. Before the intervention of the community workers, the owners themselves could not scrape up enough orders for the group to meet.
刘逸父母原本在日本陪她过年，签证没法续签，于是父母2月17号跟随大使馆包机回到武汉。
Liu's parents, originally in Japan to accompany her New Year, visa could not be renewed, so February 17 followed the Embassy charter flight back to Wuhan.
回来那天老人出去买菜，刚到小区门口就被拦下。
On the day of his return, the old man went shopping and was stopped at the gate of the neighborhood.
刘逸也慌了，上微博一看，才知道武汉所有住宅小区已经实行封闭管理。
Liu Yi also panic, on Weibo a look, just know that all residential areas in Wuhan has been implemented closed management.
他们赶上了最严厉的管控时期：此前每户人家每三天可以派一人出门买菜的政策失效，出入证也作废。
They caught up with the toughest regulatory period: the previous policy of sending one person out every three days to buy food in each home had lapsed and their grounds passes invalidated.
但刘逸觉得自己运气还算好。
But Liu Yi thinks he is lucky.
那一次买菜，她只填了100元调度费就有骑手接单。
That time, she filled out only 100 yuan dispatch fee to have rider order.
她选了一些存放时间比较长的菜，按四五斤为单位买，希望买到的菜能支撑多一些日子。
She chose some dishes that had been kept for a long time and bought them in units of four or five kilos, hoping to buy more days.
“不是完全买不到，只是开销太大了。
"It's not completely unobtainable, it's just too expensive
”她明显感觉到，这一单比平时贵多了，不算跑腿费，花了将近500元。
She clearly felt that the order was much more expensive than usual, not counting the errands, which cost nearly 500 yuan.
“特殊时期，没办法。
"Special times, no way.
”刘逸500元的买菜订单。
An order for 500 yuan for vegetables.
商超不再对接个人，只能购买套餐2月18日起，武昌区和青山区相继宣布辖区内所有的商超只接受团购客户，不再对个人销售生活物资。
Shang Chao no longer docked individuals, can only buy set meals from February 18, Wuchang District and Qingshan District announced that all the areas within the jurisdiction of the super-customers only accept group purchase, no longer sell personal goods.
多家超市接连推出了团购套餐。
Many supermarkets have successively launched group purchase packages.
苏樟小区常用的家乐福光谷店套餐，一般家庭需求较大是蔬菜和肉类。
Carrefour Guang Gu Shop set meal is commonly used in Suzhou area. The higher demand is vegetable and meat.
蔬菜套餐内共11种蔬菜，售价99元。
Vegetable Set Meal consists of 11 vegetables and costs $99.
冷冻肉套餐由2.5kg后腿肉、2.5kg肋排、2kg五花肉组成，售价349元。
The frozen meat package consists of 2.5 kg hindquarters, 2.5 kg rib ribs and 2 kg pork for 349 yuan.
购菜微信群里，有居民吐槽100元买来的蔬菜套餐，平时只需30元。
Purchasing micro-letter group, there are residents trough 100 yuan to buy vegetables set meal, usually only 30 yuan.
某个套餐里的汤圆袋数每天都在增加——从一开始的两包到后来的四包，“又不是大户人家过元宵节，哪能吃的了那么多。
The number of soup packets in a given meal increases every day - from the first two packs to the next four packs.
”武汉各政务微信公众号先后给居民推荐了线上生鲜平台。
Wuhan government micro-credit public to the residents have been recommended on the new online platform.
据“招商武汉”统计，截至2月24日，武汉市提供线上买菜服务的电商平台已增至33家。
As of Feb. 24, the number of online shopping platforms in Wuhan has increased to 33, according to China Merchants Wuhan.
各平台对下单时间、配送时限、配送范围有不同的要求。
Each platform has different requirements for ordering time, delivery time and distribution range.
大多数平台对团购数量有要求，或需要固定“团长”对接。
Most platforms require the number of group purchases, or require a fixed "leader" docking.
身处武汉的秦楚客在个人微信公众号上记录了在这些线上渠道买菜的经历，他至少试了其中九个APP，没有买到菜的原因千奇百怪：食享会APP上没有所在社区联系人，无法购买；中百仓储的多点APP页面显示“便捷生活，敬请期待”；吉及鲜、盒马鲜生、十荟团都不在配送范围内；美家预约了三次都没有成功......22号晚上，一段“武汉嫂子汉骂”视频突然在网上火起来：一位业主在社区群里抨击不作为的社区与用套餐来捆绑销售的超市。
He tried at least nine of them. The reason why he didn't buy the food was strange: there was no local community contact on the APP and it could not be bought.
陈维佳看了视频，忍不住想，这些住在武汉高端小区的业主都只能任由套餐摆布，那其他人呢？武商超市（2月17日-2月20日的套餐价格）的蔬菜套餐分为两种，6种蔬菜组合（共7.5kg)58元/份，8种蔬菜组合（共9.5kg)88元/份。
Chen Wei-jia watched the video and couldn't help but think that the owners of these high-end districts in Wuhan were at the mercy of the package, while the others were divided into two types of vegetable package (7.5 kg), 58 yuan / portion and 8 vegetable combinations (9.5 kg), 88 yuan / share.
肉蛋套餐里包含了5斤冻猪肉、30枚鸡蛋、一箱纯牛奶共162元。
The meat and egg package contains 5 kilos of frozen pork, 30 eggs and a crate of pure milk for 162 yuan.
中百仓储只显示了一个蔬菜套餐组合作为范例，里面包含了7种蔬菜加一份葱姜蒜，售价为80元。
Zhong100 Warehousing shows only one veggie set as an example. It contains seven vegetables plus onion and garlic. It costs 80 yuan.
“武汉有很多城中村，或即将拆迁半拆迁的老破小区，每个小区也就一两个保安，他们管得过来吗。
"Wuhan has a lot of villages in the city, or the demolition of half-demolition of the old sub-district, each small area on one or two security, they can control it.
”陈维佳觉得，身处疫区，每天看着确诊人数上涨，这个阶段的武汉人，“真的又憋闷，又有强烈的危机感，再来个高价团购，心里别说多委屈了。
"Chen Wei-jia felt that in the affected areas, watching the number of confirmed cases rise every day, Wuhan people at this stage," really suffocate, there is a strong sense of crisis, and a high-priced group purchase, do not say how aggrieved.
”以前，陈维佳觉得家住武汉的母亲情况尚好，每月有退休金领，但周围的邻居就不一定了。
Previously, Chen felt her mother, who lived in Wuhan, was doing well, with a monthly pension but not necessarily neighbors.
“武汉有些老人特别省钱，我家邻居每次去超市就买一块钱一袋的泡面吃。
"Wuhan some old people particularly save money, my neighbor every time to the supermarket to buy a dollar a bag of noodles to eat.
”有邻居每天跟孙维妈妈抱怨，现在不能出去赚钱，没钱用了怎么办。
One of the neighbors complained to his mother every day about not being able to go out and make money.
陈妈妈只能安慰对方，现在是艰难时期，大家都忍一忍。
Chen mother can only comfort each other, now is a difficult time, we bear it.
“武汉嫂子汉骂”视频火了之后，武商量贩和中百仓储先后于24日和25日更新了套餐。
"Wuhan sister-in-law Han scolded" video fire, Wu and Zhong100 warehouse in 24 and 25 respectively updated the package.
对比前后两档套餐，各类套餐价格有所下降，且单种菜品的价格明细也被标识。
Contrast before and after two sets of meals, the prices of various packages have declined, and the price of a single dish has been marked.
中百超市提供的套餐武商超市提供的套餐据湖北日报25日报道，武汉五大商超目前都推出了10斤10元特价蔬菜包，表示会重点保障辖区低收入群体购买。
Wuhan's top five commercial supermarkets are offering 10-pound special 10-yuan vegetable bags, saying they will focus on ensuring that low-income groups in their districts can buy them.
但尚无针对“低收入人群”标准的具体解释。
But there is no specific explanation for the "low-income" criterion.
丧失稳定买菜渠道的边缘社区听涛社区居民多次到城市留言板留言。
The marginal community, which has lost its stable channel of buying vegetables, heard residents of Tao community leave messages on the city message board several times.
与社区沟通、一遍遍拨打市长热线、去城市留言板上留言......武汉女孩张宜修和朋友们尝试了所有能想到的方法来解决买菜问题。
Communicate with the community, call the mayor's hotline over and over, leave a message on the city's message board... Wuhan girl Zhang Yixiu and her friends have tried everything they can to solve the problem of shopping.
他们社区已经没有稳定的买菜渠道。
There is no stable way to buy vegetables in their community.
社区居民戏称自己住在“飞地”。
Community residents joke they live in "enclaves."
张宜修的小区位于武汉经济开发区(以下简称经开区)枫树一路，地理位置属经开区，周围的社区都属于经开区管理，唯独她所在的听涛社区属于蔡甸区，事实上，他们与蔡甸城区相隔22公里。
Zhang Yishui's community is located along the maple tree road in Wuhan Economic Development Zone (hereinafter referred to as the Kaesong District). Its geographical location is divided into open areas. The surrounding communities are all run by the economic development zone.
封城以来，张宜修眼看着买菜的大门一扇一扇关上。
Since the closure of the city, Zhang Yixiu watched as the doors of shopping closed one by one.
先是小区门口的中百超市因为食品经营许可证没有到店被迫关门，那里原本是整个社区几千居民的购物保障。
First, hundreds of supermarkets in front of the neighborhood were forced to close because they did not have food business licenses, which used to be a shopping guarantee for thousands of residents of the community.
个体商店的老板18号也因为道路交通进一步管制，在微信群里告知大家，以后都进不到菜和水果了。
The owner of the private store, No. 18, also announced in the microphone group that there would be no more food or fruit because of further road traffic controls.
张宜修一个一个试网上推荐的6个线上购买平台，其中5个配送范围不包括他们社区。
Zhang Yixiu a trial online recommended six online purchase platforms, of which five distribution areas do not include their communities.
只有一个食享会APP，居民开了团，位置偏远，一两天后就停了。
There was only one food club APP, and the residents opened a regiment, which was remote and stopped after a day or two.
张宜修和朋友们试图解决问题的工作日记很多业主希望，他们能有正规固定的商超与社区对接。
Zhang and friends are trying to solve the problem of the diary many owners hope that they can have a regular business with the community docking.
业主群里时不时有私人老板卖菜，张宜修说，涨价问题完全靠卖家良心，甚至有人经常在群里发几月几号店铺要关门的消息，来煽动大家抓紧储备物资。
Zhang Yixiu said that the problem of rising prices depends entirely on the conscience of the seller. Some even incite people to hold on to their stores by regularly passing the news that their stores are going to close for months.
在持续协商过程中，她们于21号等来了唯一以社区名义组织的团购：一份价格为55元的蔬菜包。
In the course of the ongoing negotiations, they were among the only group purchases organized in the name of the community on the 21st: a $55 vegetable pack.
社区：4个工作人员对2500户居民2月24日，在武汉市百步亭社区龙庭小区，百步亭社区四居委会工作人员和志愿者为居民整理其订购的货品。
Communities: Four staff to 2500 families February 24, in the community of Baebuting Longting District, Wuhan City, four neighborhood committee staff and volunteers for residents to arrange their orders.
（新华社发）张宜修觉得社区的问题是一个死循环：她相信她跟社区反映的问题，社区肯定也往上反映过。
Zhang Yixiu feels the community's problems are a cycle of death: she believes the problems she tells her community, and the community must have reflected them.
她又和朋友们一遍遍拨打市长热线，但每次得到的回馈都是：会督促街道办或社区为他们解决。
She and her friends called the mayor's hotline over and over again, but each time she got a response: she urged the street office or the community to take care of it.
压力最终回到只有4个工作人员的社区身上。
The pressure eventually returned to the community of only four staff members.
社区书记表示，听涛社区现在住着2500多户，共7000多人。
The community secretary said the community now has more than 2,500 families, more than 7,000 people.
除了来帮忙的下沉干部，这个社区甚至没有网格员。
The community does not even have grid workers, except for the sinking cadres who come to help.
其中一位网格员没有从外地回到武汉，另一位网格员则是刚生完孩子。
One of the grid workers did not return to Wuhan from the outside world, while the other had just given birth.
社区书记说，办公室的电话好像24小时都没停过。
The community secretary said the office phone didn't seem to stop for 24 hours.
她和同事们已在社区住了一个多月，一直没回过家，晚上八点下班是常态。
She and her colleagues have been living in the community for more than a month, never returning home, and it is the norm to leave work at eight in the evening.
每天一上班，住户们的要求就朝他们涌来。
Every day as soon as they went to work, the occupants began to flock to them.
需要买药的家庭都会告诉她，如果今天没有这个药，后果会有多严重。
Families in need of drugs will tell her how serious the consequences would be if the drug were not available today.
关于粮食，居民们有各种各样的要求，“买到蔬菜的，他想吃肉；吃了肉的，他说要新鲜肉，不要冰冻肉；吃上新鲜肉的，他说我要吃鱼；吃了鱼的他说我要喝酒、我要吃薯片......”有居民问她，能不能将蔬菜包里的蔬菜品种换一换。
On food, the residents asked, "If you buy vegetables, he wants meat; if you eat meat, he says fresh meat, he says I want fish; if he eats fish, he says I want to drink, I want crisps..." Some residents asked her if she could change the vegetable variety in her vegetable bag.
她彻底没招了，“本来现在季节都是吃这几种菜的，对不对？”     至于没有大型商超与社区对接，书记解释道，她们此前联系过离小区最近的一家武商超市，但涉及跨区问题，对方商超没法送货，自己社区又没有通行证，也不能出去。
"As for not connecting with the community, the secretary explained that they had contacted the nearest martial arts store, but the cross-district issue involved that the other side couldn't deliver the goods and their communities did not have permits and could not go out.
问题便迟迟无法解决。
The problem remains unresolved.
到发稿前，张宜修和朋友们表示，他们目前收到了蔡甸区市场监督局的投诉反馈，对方告诉他们，从25日开始，小区门口的中百听涛观海店可以继续给社区供货，除了暂时没有肉，基本的米、面粮、油、青菜都有。
Zhang and his friends said they had received complaints from the Cai Den Market Supervision Bureau and told them that from the 25th day onwards, Zhongbai Zhongtao Guanhai Shop in front of the neighborhood would continue to supply the community with basic rice, pasta, oil and vegetables, in addition to the temporary absence of meat.
同日，社区工作人员也在业主群里发布了新的团购方式，表示已经和中百奓山店沟通好，可以像其他地区的居民一样正常团购。
On the same day, community workers in the group issued a new group of owners, said that the company has been well mantled, like the rest of the residents can normal group purchase.
但测温、统计、发放蔬菜等工作量巨大，社区希望能招募到16名志愿者。
But the amount of work involved in temperature measurement, statistics and vegetable distribution is enormous, and the community hopes to recruit 16 volunteers.
社区招募志愿者的微信截图下沉干部眼里的买菜问题1月27日起，付莎莎作为下沉干部驻扎白马洲社区。
Community recruitment volunteers micro-letter screenshot sinking cadre eyes of the problem of buying vegetables from January 27, pay Sasha as a sinking cadre stationed in the White Horse community.
据2月23日统计，白马洲社区共有2098户，4200人。
According to February 23, 2,098 families and 4,200 people lived in the White Horse community.
付莎莎说，自己在社区居民的买菜问题上花了大力气。
Ms. Fussa says she has put a lot of effort into buying food for the community.
起初，她联系上熟悉的菜贩子，让对方拖菜到小区门口来卖。
At first, she contacted a familiar vegetable peddler and asked him to tow vegetables to the gate of the neighborhood to sell.
但居民们看见菜就涌上来。
But when the residents saw the food, they came up.
她觉得太危险，开始寻找网上能送货的店。
She felt too dangerous and began looking for a store that could deliver goods online.
她一共找到了13家商店，挨个核查了商家的营业执照、健康证、检疫合格证等，她才放心地推荐给居民购买。
She found a total of 13 shops, each checked the business license, health certificate, quarantine certificate, and so on, she confidently recommended to the residents to buy.
她还联系了小区内的两家超市的老板，让居民在微信群里下单，一个一个排好号，轮到谁就下楼取菜。
She also contacted the owners of two supermarkets in the area, asking residents to place orders in small groups, one by one, and who went downstairs to pick them up.
付莎莎在给社区居民送菜。
Sasha's bringing food to the community.
（受访者供图）商超宣布对接社区的新闻出来后，付莎莎联系了武商量贩的工作人员。
After Shang Chao announced the docking of the news to the community, Sha Sha contacted the staff of Wu Shing-peddlers.
对方发给她一个表格，她打开一看，里面全是套餐，没有什么选择的余地。
She was given a form, and when she opened it, it was all a set meal. There was no choice.
甚至连调料都有专门的套餐。
Even the seasoning has a special set meal.
“很多居民都比较节约，不愿意大手大脚的，我们年轻人不介意买个酱油还要搭着买这买那的，但有些年纪大的人就不愿意买那些套餐。
"Many residents are frugal and don't want to be extravagant. We young people don't mind buying soy sauce and buying it with it, but some older people don't want to buy those packages.
” 那一次并没有与武商量贩对接成功，付莎莎说，还有一个原因是，套餐需要社区自己派车去取。
The success of the deal was not discussed with Wu, but Fussa said, adding that another reason was that the community needed to send its own car to collect the meal.
但社区眼下一共只有两辆车，是用来给居民买药送药，或处理别的紧急情况的。
But the community now has only two cars to buy medicine for residents or to deal with other emergencies.
社区用车也有明文规定，不能作为其他用途。
Community vehicles are also clearly stipulated and cannot be used for other purposes.
目前，武汉市民的买菜渠道主要依赖线上生鲜平台和社区组织的团购。
At present, the buying channel of Wuhan city people mainly relies on online fresh platform and community organization group purchase.
除此之外，一些小区居民表示，家附近的便利店仍可通过微信群接龙订购，也有部分小区业主凭借自己的资源，联系熟悉的菜贩子不定期给小区业主送菜。
In addition, some neighborhood convenience stores can still be ordered through micro-credit groups, but some small district owners rely on their own resources, contact familiar vegetable dealers to deliver vegetables to small district owners on an irregular basis.
“现在买菜不看价，抢到就行！”( 除陈维佳、王嘉兴与付莎莎之外，其他人均为化名)来源｜南都周刊END欢迎分享到朋友圈，如想取得授权请邮件：newmedia@nbweekly.com。
(All except Chen Wei-jia, Wang Jiaxing, and Fu Sasha are aliases) are welcome to share with your circle of friends. If you want authorization, please email newmedia @ nbweekly.com.
如果想找到小南，可以在后台回复「小南」试试看哦~                       。
If you want to find Xiao Nan, you can reply to "Xiao Nan" in the background.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉人买菜的真实图景。
The real picture of Wuhan people buying vegetables.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "南都周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉人买菜的真实图景";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; Wuhan.
var title ="南都周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
