几十万学费变成了买网课，被疫情阻断的留学路。
Hundreds of thousands of tuition into the purchase of online classes, blocked by the outbreak of the road to study abroad.
田蔚琪 陈星萌等。
Tian Wei Meng, etc.
南都周刊                      。
Nandu Weekly.
南都周刊。
Nandu Weekly.
有温度的新媒体。
New media with temperature.
大学的意义，不仅仅在于一节节课程，还在于学校提供的各种公共教学设施和公共生活空间。
The significance of the university lies not only in a section of the curriculum, but also in the various public teaching facilities and public living spaces provided by the school.
学生们身体的不在场，不可避免地让大学的意义变得模糊。
The absence of the students inevitably obscures the meaning of the university.
文 | 田蔚琪 陈星萌 林浩瑶 编辑 | 小豆二月底本是澳洲大学秋季开学的日子，在澳洲完成本科学业的小何，也迎来了自己作为研究生的第一学期。
At the end of February, when Australian universities opened in the autumn, Mr. Ho, who completed his undergraduate studies in Australia, ushered in his first semester as a graduate student.
本来他还庆幸自己在澳洲山火进一步蔓延前赶回了国，如今却因为疫情的影响回不了学校。
He was lucky to be back in Australia before the wildfire spread, but now he can't go back to school because of the epidemic.
留学美国的悦悦决定先休学一学期。
Yue decided to take a semester off to study in America.
年初，美国政府宣布进入公共卫生紧急状态，2月2号后，禁止任何在过去14天曾到过中国境内的外籍旅客，进入美国境内。
Earlier this year, the U.S. government declared a public health emergency, and after February 2 it banned all foreign tourists who had been in China for the past 14 days from entering the United States.
快要到期的签证，还看不到松动迹象的入境限制令，让悦悦焦头烂额，“第一次体会到想上学也上不了的心态。
With expiring visas and no sign of loosening restrictions on entry, Yueyue is struggling "to experience for the first time the mentality of wanting to go to school."
”难以跨越的国境线新冠病毒的跨国传播持续加速。
The cross-border spread of the intractable new cap virus continues to accelerate.
2月23日，韩国将疫情预警上调至最高级别，27日，韩国累计确诊案例已经突破千例，远在欧洲的意大利全国累计确诊人数升至470例，成为欧洲疫情最严重的国家。
On February 23, the South Korean epidemic alert was raised to the highest level, the cumulative number of confirmed cases in South Korea has exceeded 1,000, as far as Europe's total number of confirmed cases rose to 470, the most serious epidemic in Europe.
世界卫生组织于24日表示，目前没有看到COVID-19在全球不受控制地蔓延，但要尽所能为潜在的大流行做好准备。
The World Health Organization (WHO) said Thursday that it did not see the uncontrolled spread of COVID-19 around the world, but should do all it could to prepare for a potential pandemic.
来源：新浪新闻数据统计截止至2月27日15时美国、新加坡、澳洲等留学热门目的地，相继开启了中国公民入境管制。
www.51education.net) www.51education.net www.51education.net www.51education.net) www.51education.net www.51test.net www.51test.net www.51test.net www.51test.net www.51test.netwww.51test.net www.51test.net
根据中国国家移民管理局整理的数据，截止到2月16日，采取入境管制措施的国家已经扩大到了133个。
As of February 16, the number of countries using immigration control measures had expanded to 133, according to data compiled by China's National Migration Administration.
在2020这个听上去颇具科幻色彩的年份，边境的开放措施却受疫情影响被缩紧。
In a sci-fi-sounding year, 2020, border-opening measures have been squeezed by the epidemic.
对这一届的留学生来说，求学的第一难题成了如何跨越国境线到达学校。
For this generation of foreign students, the first challenge to study is how to cross the border to get to school.
除此之外，由于疫情防控需要，雅思、托福等考试纷纷取消，一批学生或许因此无法拿到入学offer（录取）。
In addition, due to the need of disease prevention and control, IELTS, TOEFL and other tests have been cancelled, so a number of students may not be able to get an offer.
“曲线入境”, 泰国成留学生热门中转地2020年初，留学美国的悦悦的F-1签证快要到期了。
"Curve Entry," Thailand's hottest transit point for international students in early 2020, the happy F-1 visa to study in the United States is about to expire.
她本来计划在圣诞假期回国时进行更新，可是没想到签证被行政审查，直到开学时也没有审批下来。
She had planned to renew it when she returned home for the Christmas holidays, but the visa was subject to administrative review and was not approved until the beginning of the school year.
正当她望眼欲穿等待签证时，1月31号，美国政府突然宣布进入公共卫生紧急状态，2月2日起禁止任何在过去14天内曾到过中国境内的外籍旅客进入美国境内。
Just as she was waiting for her visa, on January 31, the U.S. government abruptly declared a public health emergency, and on February 2 it banned all foreign tourists who had been in China for the past 14 days from entering the United States.
遥遥无期的签证审查，暂时闭馆的美国大使馆，不知道什么时候解除的旅行禁令，让悦悦做出一个艰难的决定——她决定先休学一个学期，待疫情结束后再重返校园，参加秋季学期的课程。
The prolonged visa review, the temporary closure of the U. S. Embassy, and the lifting of the travel ban left Yueyue with a tough decision to take a semester off and return to school for the fall semester after the outbreak.
这意味着悦悦在学业、时间以及金钱上，将作出巨大的牺牲。
This means that Yueyue will make great sacrifices in her studies, her time and her money.
澳大利亚入境处“不知道在哪里补这一整个学期的课，同时之前在机票改签上已经花费了很多钱，交的学费也不一定能退。
"The Australian Immigration Service" does not know where to make up the entire semester and has already spent a lot of money on ticket rentals, which may not be refundable. "
”正在和校方交涉休学后相关事宜的悦悦，焦头烂额。
He was dealing with the school authorities about the euphoria of the post-suspension affair.
“第一次体会到想上学也上不了的心态，”悦悦苦笑着说。
"First experience want to go to school can not go on the mentality," Yueyue sad smile said.
留学生小何也有同样的感受。
Xiao He, an international student, felt the same way.
去年10月底，刚刚在澳洲完成本科学业的小何，赶在澳洲山火进一步蔓延前回了国，准备假期之后再回到悉尼大学开启新的研究生生活。
He, who had just completed his undergraduate studies in Australia, returned to Australia at the end of October to prepare for a new graduate life at the University of Sydney, ahead of the Australian mountain fire.
随着新冠肺炎疫情的暴发，小何的假期被迫“延长”。
With the outbreak of pneumonia in the new crown, He's holiday had to be "extended."
2月1日，澳大利亚总理莫里森宣布澳洲拒绝除永久居民外所有来自中国大陆的旅行者，2月12日，澳洲境外的澳洲学生签证办理暂时呈停摆状态。
On February 1, Australian Prime Minister Maurice Morrison announced that Australia refused to accept all mainland Chinese tourists except permanent residents. On February 12, visa applications for Australian students from outside Australia were temporarily suspended.
去年12月的澳洲天空（受访者供图）“现在学校决定2月24日开始远程上课。
"The school has now decided to start distance learning on Feb. 24," said Australian Sky in December.
虽说一样都是上课，但上网课和在教室上课真的感觉差好远，特别像我这种新生，才第一学期什么经验都没有，很容易跟不上。
Although it is the same class, but the Internet classes and classes in the classroom really feel far from good, especially for a freshman like me, only the first semester of any experience, very easy to keep up with.
”对小何这种研一新生来说，棘手的还有之后的环境适应问题。
For a freshman like Ho, the tricky part is the question of adaptation.
为了让新生更快地适应与融入新环境，国外大学会在新生入学前一周举办迎新周。
In order to help freshmen adapt and assimilate into the new environment, foreign universities will hold an orientation week a week before the new students start school.
今年受疫情影响，准备赴澳学习的中国留学新生都只能错过迎新周了。
Influenced by the outbreak this year, new Chinese students preparing to study in Australia will have to miss the New Year's Eve.
小何无奈地说：“我原本还想提前一点回去，好更快适应融入的，结果现在不仅早不了，还要推迟这么多。
He helplessly said: "I also want to go back a bit earlier, to better adapt to the integration, the result is not only not early, but also so much delay.
”像小何这样回不了学校的人还有很多。
"There were many people like Xiao He who couldn't go back to school.
2月13日，澳洲移民局更新了措施，称学生只有在赴澳前，在中国大陆以外停留超过连续14天后，才会获准进入澳大利亚。
On February 13, the Australian Immigration Service updated its measures, saying students would be allowed to enter Australia only after spending more than 14 consecutive days outside the mainland before travelling to Australia.
于是，一些不甘束手等待的学生们筹划起了“曲线入境”——先到第三国呆满14天，再从第三国出发到澳洲。
So some students unwilling to wait planned a "curvy" entry - 14 days to a third country and then to Australia from a third country.
泰国由于入境政策较为宽松，且物价较低，成了中转国首选地。
Thailand had become a transit country of choice because of its liberal immigration policies and low prices.
无法返澳的澳洲学生讨论入境事宜（受访者供图）江江，一位在美国洛杉矶上学的学生，也迫不得已选择了这种“曲线入境”的方式。
An Australian student who was unable to return to Australia discussed immigration. Jiang Jiang, a student studying in Los Angeles, was forced to choose this "curve entry" approach.
她首先从广州飞到泰国曼谷，逗留两周后，再飞往洛杉矶。
She flew from Guangzhou to Bangkok, Thailand, for two weeks before flying to Los Angeles.
这期间所有的花费都只能自己承担。
All the expenses during this period can only be borne by oneself.
面对如此高昂的入境代价，江江虽然心痛却也无可奈何。
In the face of such a high entry price, Jiang Jiang although heartache but also helpless.
“总不可能不上学呀，而且这个学期我要毕业了。
"" It's impossible not to go to school, and I'm leaving school this semester.
辛苦读了四年，最后连毕业证都拿不到就太亏了！”江江只能安慰自己要学会苦中作乐，“之前我都没去过曼谷，就当是去深度游了。
After four years of hard reading, I could not even get my graduation certificate at a loss! Jiang Jiang had to comfort himself that he had to learn to enjoy himself.
”如今，江江已经顺利入境美国，但是一些在澳大利亚上学的留学生的入境之旅，却没有那么顺利。
Jiang has now entered the US without a hitch, but the arrival of some students studying in Australia has not.
14天的隔离期未到，澳洲方又将入境限制延长了一周。
Before the 14-day isolation period arrived, the Australian side extended the entry restrictions by another week.
一位选择在泰国中转的网友评论道：“我住的酒店大厅就可以凑齐悉尼、墨尔本等各大高校的学生。
"My hotel lobby can accommodate students from Sydney, Melbourne and other universities," commented a netizen who chose to transit in Thailand.
”除了上网课，学校还给了另两个选择留澳学生难以跨越赤道回到南半球，香港留学生也无法跨越一江之隔返学。
In addition to online classes, the school has made it difficult for the two remaining students to cross the equator and return to the southern hemisphere.
“我想读跟政策相关的专业，城大的公共管理是亚洲第一。
"I want to read policy-related majors. City University's public administration is number one in Asia.
”为了读自己感兴趣的专业，玲玲最终放弃了国内的保研机会，以及五个英国学校的offer，选择了香港城市大学进行研究生学业学习。
"Lingling ended up giving up graduate study at CityU in order to read about her major, as well as offer at five British schools.
但没想到，2019年的香港留学生，上半学年碰上了“修例风波”，下半学年遇上了新冠肺炎疫情，真正在学校上课的时间其实只有三个月。
But I did not expect that in 2019 Hong Kong students, the first half of the school year hit a "reform storm," the second half of the school year hit the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic, in fact only three months in school.
从去年11月14号学校宣布全面停课之后，玲玲就已回到家中，直到今年2月才用网课开启了新的学期。
Lingling had been home since November 14, when she was suspended from classes altogether, and didn't start her new semester with classes until February.
1月28日，国家移民管理局暂停所有类别赴港澳旅游签证的受理与审批，香港各大高校也相继延迟了入学时间。
On January 28, the State Administration of Migration suspended the processing and approval of all categories of tourist visas to Hong Kong and Macao.
除了上网课，玲玲的学校还给了学生另外两个选择：一个是退学，一个是休学。
In addition to online classes, Lingling's school gives students two other choices: one to drop out of school and the other to suspend school.
但比起香港本地的学生，内地学生的选择空间十分有限，做出选择需要付出的代价也更为高昂。
But the choice for mainland students is more limited than that for Hong Kong students, and the choice is more expensive.
按照香港的租房惯例，从内地赴港读书的一年制硕士课程学生，一般都被要求在入住前付清接下来一年的房租费用。
In accordance with Hong Kong's rental practice, one-year masters programme students from the Mainland are generally required to pay their rent for the following year before moving in.
就玲玲来说，仅租房费用便花去了72000港币，居住率虽然不高，但房费不会有一丝的减免退还。
In Lingling's case, renting alone cost HK $72,000, and although the occupancy rate was not high, there was not the slightest remission of room rates.
学校提供的选择邮件香港的一年硕士课程的学费一般在10万到40万港币之间。
The tuition fee for a one-year masters programme in Hong Kong is generally between HK $100,000 and HK $400,000.
玲玲就读的项目一年学费14万港币。
The program Lingling attends costs HK $140,000 a year.
学费不仅包括上课的课程，还包括课堂之外的许多资源，比如更多样化的教学讨论方式，图书馆、展览馆等公共教学设施的使用等。
Tuition includes not only the curriculum, but also many resources outside the classroom, such as more diverse teaching and discussion methods, use of public teaching facilities such as libraries and galleries, etc.
但在目前的情形下，几十万的学费，只买到了网课。
But in the current situation, hundreds of thousands of tuition fees, only to buy online classes.
“我其实比较在意一些课堂以外的资源，包括学校的讲座，图书馆的workshop（培训），以及课程里面包含的fieldtrip（户外教学）……目前已经取消了两次fieldship（户外教学）了，现在不能在学校，我觉得挺可惜的。
"I actually care more about resources outside the classroom, including the lectures at school, the library workshop (training), and the field trip (outdoor teaching) included in the course... now that two field trips have been cancelled, it's a pity I can't be in school now.
”玲玲说。
'said Lingling.
香港城市大学的展览馆大学的意义，不仅仅在于一节节课程，还在于学校提供的各种公共教学设施和公共生活空间。
The significance of CityU's Exhibition Gallery University lies not only in one section of the curriculum, but also in the various public teaching facilities and public living spaces provided by the school.
学生们身体的不在场，不可避免地让学校的意义变得有所缺憾。
The absence of the students inevitably makes the sense of the school inadequate.
当几十万的学费变成了买网课，千辛万苦拿到的入学资格，也变得有些价值模糊。
When hundreds of thousands of tuition fees into the purchase of online classes, the painstaking access to eligibility, has become a bit of a fuzzy value.
在不可抗力的因素面前，玲玲其实也是无辜的受害者。
In the face of force majeure, Lingling is in fact an innocent victim.
“遇到现在这些事，我都要不断自我心理建设。
"I have to constantly build my own mind when it comes to these things.
”托福、GRE、雅思全停，申请之路难上加难这一届的英国留学申请被称为最难的一届。
"TOEFL, GRE and IELTS all stop, making it even harder for students to apply.
英国脱欧之后的签证利好政策，以及受香港的局势影响，申请人数和申请要求跟着英镑一起水涨船高。
As a result of the UK's post-Brexit visa policy, and given the situation in Hong Kong, the number of applicants and their applications have risen with the pound.
更麻烦的是，受疫情影响，3月份的托福、GRE、雅思全部停考，这让急需语言成绩的预留学生陷入了无限的焦虑之中。
To make matters worse, the March suspension of the TOEFL, GRE and IELTS tests has left students in desperate need of language proficiency in a state of limitless anxiety.
鸽子是一名设计类专业大四的学生。
Pigeon is a design major in the fourth year of students.
为了申请一个好学校，大三那一年她开启了“爆肝”模式。
In order to apply for a good school, the junior year she opened the "popsicle" mode.
“过程非常沧桑。
"The process is very vicissitudes.
”最后三个月，她平均每天睡眠时间4个小时，累了就直接睡在工作室的沙发上，连着一个月的时间没有沾床。
She slept an average of four hours a day for the last three months and, when she was tired, slept straight on the couch in the studio for a month without getting stuck in bed.
因为艺术设计最后的成品需要去摄影棚找摄影师拍大片，摄影师和模特都需要提前很久预约，模特要四个小时起拍，一小时花费400块，摄影师则一天一万，取消预约钱不退。
Photographers and models are required to make advance bookings. Models will pay 400 yuan an hour for four hours of shooting, and 10,000 dollars a day for photographers.
为了设计出满意的作品，鸽子在拍片前36个小时没有合眼。
The pigeon did not close its eyes 36 hours before the film was taken in order to design a satisfactory piece.
好在她的努力也得到了回报。
Fortunately, her efforts paid off.
她投了6个offer，在1月中旬的时候，英国皇家艺术学院（全球唯一的全研究制艺术院校）给她抛来了橄榄枝。
She cast six offers, and in mid-January, the Royal College of Arts, the world's only full-scale art academy, threw her an olive branch.
因为英国艺术类的专业要求入学前提交成绩就可以，所以她必须在6月份之前把成绩考出来。
Since a major in British art requires that she submit her scores before she goes to school, she must do so by June.
当时没有想到雅思会被停考，她本来准备3月份考雅思，然后多刷几次分数。
She had planned to take the IELTS test in March, and then brush more points.
结果三月份报了两场考试，全被停掉了。
As a result, two tests were administered in March and all were suspended.
毕业设计也没有着落，设计类的同学需要拿出设计作品，鸽子已经做好了设计稿，但是工厂没有开门，也没有办法生产。
Graduation design has not come down, design class students need to come up with design works, pigeons have done the design, but the factory did not open, and there is no way to produce.
中期和论文也都没写，“要是5月份开学的话就爽了，开学即毕业。
Neither the mid-term nor the paper was written. "It would be nice to start school in May and graduate when it starts.
”听说17号的时候UKVI（签证及移民类雅思考试）会放考位，鸽子蹲到凌晨，却发现没有开放。
I heard that UKVI (Visa and Immigration IELTS) would hold the test on the 17th and pigeons crouched until early morning, only to find it was not open.
因为有亲戚在加拿大，鸽子也考虑过去加拿大考，但是现在出国并不方便，也没有直航的机票，只能转机，“而且也有 ‘投毒’的嫌疑。
Because there are relatives in Canada, pigeons have considered the past Canadian test, but now it is not convenient to go abroad, there is no direct flight tickets, can only transit, "but also" poisoning "suspicion.
”鸽子决定还是继续等，“总不能不开吧。
"The Pigeon decided to keep on waiting," but couldn't help it.
反正考试取消了，准备时间也长了。
Anyway, the exam was canceled and the preparation time was long.
一刷冲7我可以。
One swipe seven I can.
”对于毛毛来说，他的计划也全都被打乱了。
For Maomao, too, his plans were all upset.
他今年大三，本来打算出国和考研同时准备，现在的他在提前准备语言。
He was going to go abroad and prepare for the postgraduate examination at the same time. Now he is preparing the language ahead of time.
1月16号的时候他在家考过一次雅思，但是没有拿到理想的成绩，短暂调整后他又报了2月24日的雅思考试，本来计划着过完元宵就回学校上面授课，但是考试取消了，而且在学校的面授课也没办法继续上了。
On January 16, he took the IELTS test at home once, but failed to get the desired result. After a short adjustment, he reported for the February 24 IELTS exam, which he had planned to take back to school after the Lantern Festival.
在毛毛的计划里，四月中旬就要结束雅思的学习，开始准备考研的内容了，“考个好点的研究生最起码也要9个月，不能没有书读啊。
In Maomao's plan, the study of IELTS will end in mid-April and begin to prepare for the postgraduate entrance examination. "A good graduate student should at least take nine months to read a book.
”（应被采访者要求，文中人物皆为化名。
"(At the request of the interviewee, the characters are aliases.
）来源｜南都周刊END欢迎分享到朋友圈，如想取得授权请邮件：newmedia@nbweekly.com。
www.youtheme.cnYouTheme (wwwyoutheme.cn) www.youtheme.cnYouTheme (wwwyoutheme.com) www.enbweekly.com
如果想找到小南，可以在后台回复「小南」试试看哦~ 。
If you want to find Xiao Nan, you can reply to "Xiao Nan" in the background.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
几十万学费变成了买网课，被疫情阻断的留学路。
Hundreds of thousands of tuition into the purchase of online classes, blocked by the outbreak of the road to study abroad.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "南都周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "几十万学费变成了买网课，被疫情阻断的留学路";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; hundreds of thousands of tuition fees have turned into fees at & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "留学的意义变得模糊...";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="南都周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
