在风暴中心坚守平凡生活的“脉动”。
At the center of the storm adhere to the "pulse" of ordinary life.
南都周刊                      。
Nandu Weekly.
南都周刊。
Nandu Weekly.
有温度的新媒体。
New media with temperature.
武汉封城，已经过去了一个月。
Wuhan has been closed city, has been a month.
说话像机关枪一样快的武汉和湖北人呢？有人说，种种难以言说之处，让他们甚至都不再发朋友圈了。
What about the Wuhan and Hubei people who talk like machine guns? Some say they don't even have a circle of friends anymore.
然而，在疫情的中心，仍然有很多人在坚守着一个个平凡生活的片段，也许是遇见那杯熟悉又戒不掉的咖啡，又或是吃上一块普普通通的生日蛋糕，甚至只是为弥漫消毒液气味的生活增添一点味道。
At the heart of the epidemic, however, there are still plenty of people clinging to mundane bits of life, whether it's the familiar cup of coffee that won't come off, or a plain birthday cake that just adds a whiff of disinfectant to life.
在非常态的日子里，他们守护着这些平凡的瞬间，与一线的逆行者一起，让原本平淡而幸福的生活早日“脉动回来”。
In the unusual days, they protect these ordinary moments, and a line of inverse together, so that the original plain and happy life "pulsate back."
封城第3天，他们回咖啡店为一线医护人员做手冲咖啡   “早上只有喝过一杯咖啡才真正醒过来”，手冲咖啡是不少人开启新一天的重要仪式。
On the third day of the city, they returned to the coffee shop to make a cup of coffee for front-line health workers. "Only after a cup of coffee can you really wake up in the morning.
从武汉宣布封城开始，几乎所有 “非必要”的城市肌理运作，都被按下了暂停键。
Since Wuhan announced the closure of the city, almost all "non-essential" urban texture operations have been pressed to suspend the key.
这其中也包括了很多一线医生护士们每天都离不开的那杯咖啡。
This includes the cup of coffee that first-line doctors and nurses can't get away from every day.
在一线不停歇地奋战十几个小时之后，医生护士们也会为咖啡的缺失而叹息。
After more than a decade of ceaseless fighting, doctors and nurses lament the loss of coffee.
有7位咖啡师对此看不下去了。
Seven coffee drinkers can't stand it anymore.
1月25日，武汉封城的第三天，这7名来自湖北省中医院附近的Wakanda咖啡店里的咖啡师决定留守武汉店中，开始了这场用手冲咖啡支援一线医护的逆行。
On January 25, on the third day of the city's closure, the seven coffee makers from Wakanda Cafe, near Hubei province's TCM hospital, decided to stay in Wuhan and begin the reverse process of hand-washing coffee to support front-line care.
他们两班倒，坚持每天为医生护士们做500杯免费咖啡。
They worked two shifts and insisted on making 500 cups of free coffee a day for the doctors and nurses.
为了让一线战士们及时喝上这样一口热乎的咖啡，咖啡师们把打奶的温度调高到 80度并用双层纸杯打包，还采用成本较高的ristretto萃取方式，实现了每一分半钟出3杯的效率。
To get the first-line fighters to sip their hot coffee, coffee drinkers set the temperature for milking to 80 degrees and packed it in double-decker paper cups, using the more expensive ristretto extraction method, achieving an efficiency of three cups per minute and a half.
所有这一切的付出，不过是希望这小小的一杯咖啡能带给战士们几分日常的幸福感。
All of this is just hope that this small cup of coffee can give soldiers a bit of daily happiness.
在一次给医院送咖啡时，五位现场的医务人员沉默地向咖啡师们鞠躬，那一刻，这群热爱咖啡的人都流泪了。
The group of coffee lovers wept as five field workers bowed in silence to the coffee drinkers as they delivered coffee to the hospital.
Wakanda轻饮咖啡的老板田亚珍说，“看到我们的咖啡真的能帮助到他们，我觉得一切都值。
"Seeing our coffee really helps them, I think it's worth it," said Tian Yazhen, owner of Wakanda Light Coffee
”  小姐姐的生日，必须得有蛋糕   生日蛋糕可能是一顿生日大餐之后的甜点，也可能是记录生日笑容的必需道具。
For a sister's birthday, cake birthday cake may be dessert after a birthday meal or a must-have for a birthday smile.
简而言之，生日蛋糕就像一个生日时理所当然的存在，甚至都够不上单独发朋友圈的资格。
In short, birthday cakes are like a birthday present, not even enough to qualify as a solo circle of friends.
但在武汉封城之后，过生日也成了一种奢侈的幸福，遑论吃上生日蛋糕。
But in Wuhan after the closure of the city, birthday has also become a luxury of happiness, let alone eat birthday cake.
糕点店也因此成了安静的大街小巷中关下门闸的店铺之一。
The bakery was thus one of the shops that shut down the gates in the quiet streets.
在2月4日一早，在武汉中南医院附近送餐的外卖骑手李浩洁接到一个在平常日子再普通不过的请求——帮忙买到一块奶油蛋糕。
On the morning of February 4, Li Haojie, a take-out rider who delivers meals near Wuhan's Zhongnan Hospital, received an unusual request for help buying a cream cake.
那是由中南医院接触肺炎患者最多的科室“检验科核酸检测组”的同事发来的，他们科室有个值班的小姑娘父亲刚刚去世了，而她那天生日，却坚持要在一线值完24小时的班。
It came from a colleague from the Chest Nucleic Acid Detection Group, the department with the most cases of pneumonia in the south-central hospital. One of the girls on duty in her department, whose father had just died, insisted on a 24-hour shift on her first birthday.
虽然不知道要到哪里找奶油蛋糕，但李浩洁知道，这块蛋糕，他买定了。
Though he did not know where to look for the cream cake, Li Hao Jie knew that he had bought the cake.
他当即行动起来，在武汉饿了么骑手配送群里发起了一场特殊的全城接力。
He immediately action, in Wuhan hungry rider distribution group launched a special whole city relay.
骑手们搜遍了整个平台想找一家开着的蛋糕店，不惜骑着电动车跑遍了几乎整个武汉，一家一家拜访各自区域内的蛋糕店。
The riders scrounged the platform for an open bakery and rode electric cars across Wuhan, visiting bakeries in their respective districts.
最后，骑手们终于找到了一家愿意临时开业的蛋糕店，为那位此刻心情外人难以想象、却仍然坚守在一线的护士姑娘，免费做了一个草莓奶油蛋糕。
Finally, the riders found a pastry shop that was willing to open temporarily. They made a strawberry cream cake for the nurse, who was still on the front line and was hard to imagine.
根据“楚天都市报”的记述，后来，李浩洁和他的同事们收到姑娘发来的生日愿望——“希望等疫情结束了，我能在家点单外卖，等骑手送达后，我要大声跟他说谢谢，然后握手拥抱。
Later, Li and his colleagues received a birthday wish from the girl, "I can order a takeaway from home when the epidemic is over, and when the rider arrives, I want to say thank you loudly and shake hands and hug," Li and his colleagues wrote.
”  守护味道，生活不能只剩下消毒液的气息    一天辛勤之后，喝上一口带点甜味的饮料，淡淡的甜味会为忙碌的人们带来片刻的愉悦。
"Guardian taste, life can not only be left with the smell of disinfectant after a hard day, drink a bit of sweet drinks, the light sweet people will bring a moment of pleasure.
疫情爆发后，这份平凡的日子里微不足道的甜味，在消毒液气味弥漫的环境中更显淡薄。
After the outbreak of the outbreak, the trivial sweetness of this ordinary day, in the smell of disinfectant in the environment even more thin.
除夕夜开始，一家饮料公司悄然开始了一场传递“生活甜味”的抗疫接力赛。
On New Year's Eve, a beverage company quietly began a "sweet life" transmission of the disease relay race.
脉动驻湖北办事处的员工胡哲在接受采访时说，“前线的医生护士缺饮用水，我们公司很快就决定要捐款和脉动支援他们。
"Doctors and nurses at the front are short of water, and our company quickly decided to donate money and pulsate to support them," Hu Zhe, an employee at the Hubei office, said in an interview.
作为武汉市民，我很高兴可以为抗疫尽点绵力。
As a citizen of Wuhan, I am glad to be able to do something about the epidemic.
” 胡哲和他的同事们很快就投入到这场行动中。
Hu and his colleagues quickly threw themselves into the operation.
负责物流的何傲霜开始处理点对点捐赠脉动的运输难题，“武汉封城闭户，寸步难行呀! 我们迅速取得了当地慈善组织的审批同意，然后一边办理通行许可，一边到处联系有通行许可的志愿者团队，决心将我们捐赠的两万多箱脉动尽快散发到一线。
We quickly obtained the approval of local charitable organizations, then we contacted the team of licensed volunteers everywhere and decided to send the 20,000 boxes of pulsations we donated to the first line as soon as possible.
”      就这样，数以百箱计的脉动，得以送到雷神山医院，随后是过千箱产品，抵达武汉最大的方舱医院。
In this way, hundreds of cases of pulsation were sent to Lei Shenshan Hospital, followed by more than a thousand boxes of products, to Wuhan's largest cabin hospital.
另一位脉动员工方卡龙说“第二次送往雷神山医院的脉动，一车450箱，每箱接近18斤重，这4吨重的脉动装车和卸货，就靠3个人做完。
Another pulsating worker, Fang Kallon, said: "The second pulsation to Raytheon Mountain Hospital was 450 cases per truck, each box was nearly 18, and the four-ton pulsating loading and unloading was done by three people.
封城之后，我们缺乏人手，但我们会继续想方设法捐脉动支援更多缺水的医院。
After the closure of the city, we are short of manpower, but we will continue to find ways to donate to support more water-scarce hospitals.
”据了解，脉动已经累计捐赠了1609万款物；其中约540万瓶脉动正陆续被运送到全国47个城市，有饮用水需求的医院，公安局，街道办等抗疫前线。
The pulsation has already donated 16.09 million items, of which about 5.4 million are being sent to 47 cities across the country where hospitals, public security bureaus and street offices with drinking water needs are on the frontlines.
没有人知道这场战“疫”什么时候会结束 但所有与逆行者同行的人们都知道 只要坚持下去 我们熟悉的生活，终将“脉动”回来 ▲本文为品牌信息。
No one knows when the "plague" will end, but everyone who walks with the rebels knows that if we stick to our familiar life, eventually "pulsate" back for brand information.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
在风暴中心坚守平凡生活的“脉动”。
At the center of the storm adhere to the "pulse" of ordinary life.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "南都周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "在风暴中心坚守平凡生活的“脉动”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at the center of the storm.
var msg_desc = "在疫情的中心，仍然有很多人在坚守着一个个平凡生活的片段。
var msg _ desc = & quot; at the heart of the epidemic, there are still many people clinging to bits of everyday life.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="南都周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
