决胜武汉进行时。
The decisive victory takes place in Wuhan.
马肃平。
Mashuping.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲2月18日，青山区工人村街道青和居社区第三网格网格员在挨家排查。
February 18, Qingshan workers village street Qinghe community third grid grid agents in the house-to-house search.
（新华社/图）全文共8426字，阅读大约需要16分钟。
The full text is 8426 words and takes about 16 minutes to read.
新建或改造医院的速度，远比不上确诊病例每天一千多的增速，若不切断传播源头，降低死亡率并不现实。
The rate of construction or renovation of hospitals is far from equal to the rate of increase of more than 1,000 confirmed cases per day, and it is not realistic to reduce mortality without cutting off the source of transmission.
“武汉是决战之地，要集中力量打歼灭战，而不是松松垮垮打持久战。
Wuhan is a place of decisive battle and should concentrate on annihilation rather than languishing for a long time.
”从除夕夜到2月17日，短短25天，208支医疗队、25972名队员驰援江城。
From New Year's Eve until February 17, 208 medical teams and 25,972 members rushed to Jiangcheng in just 25 days.
12座方舱医院陆续启动，提供床位20461张；45家定点医院，开放19161张床位；16所省属高校被征用为储备隔离点，1.5万间隔离房间待用。
Twelve cabin hospitals have been opened, providing 20,461 beds; 45 designated hospitals have opened 19,161 beds; 16 provincial colleges have been requisitioned as reserve isolation points and 15,000 isolation rooms are ready for use.
来自福建中医药大学附属人民医院的护士长陈水凤，目前正在支援武汉市金银潭医院。
Chen Shui-feng, head nurse from the People's Hospital attached to Fujian University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, is supporting the Jintan Hospital in Wuhan.
病人对她说的一句话，被她记在了日记本里：“武大的樱花马上就要开了，等我们好了，一起去看樱花。
What the patient said to her, she wrote in a diary: "Wu Da cherry blossoms will soon open, when we are good, together to see the cherry.
”本文由南方周末独家授权腾讯平台，任何第三方未经授权不得转载文 | 南方周末特派记者 马肃平责任编辑 | 曹海东农历鼠年刚过，张绪一家就步入了“计划经济”年代。
This article is exclusively authorized by Southern Weekend to authorize Tencent's platform. Any third party may not reprint without authorization the company's special reporter Ma Su-ping, a reporter at Southern Weekend, just after the Year of the Rat in the Cao Haidong lunar calendar.
五口之家，每天四菜一汤，“计划着吃”。
A family of five, four course a day, "plan to eat."
猪肉太贵，储备肉口感没那么新鲜，全家只能吃了很长一段时间腊肉、腊鱼，“都是年前准备的”。
Pork is too expensive, the taste of reserve meat is not so fresh, the family can only eat a long time bacon, bacon, "are prepared years ago."
腊月二十九，武汉“封城”。
On the 29th, Wuhan "seal the city."
家住江岸区百步亭花园社区安居苑的张绪，就体会到了生活之艰辛：因为私家车没在交管局备案，无法上路，出门采购等日常生活大受影响。
Zhang Xu, who lives in the Bumbuting Garden community in the Jiangan area, has experienced the hardships of life: private cars are not on the record of the Public Security Bureau, unable to travel, shopping and other daily life has been greatly affected.
2月11日凌晨，武汉疫情防控再度升级：全市住宅小区启动封闭管理，最大限度减少人员流动。
In the early morning hours of February 11, Wuhan epidemic prevention and control again escalated: the city's residential areas to initiate closed management, to minimize the movement of personnel.
每户家庭凭出入证，每三天可指派一人出门采购生活物资。
Each household will be assigned one person every three days to purchase household goods on the strength of a pass.
张绪一家不得不再度关心粮食和蔬菜。
The Zhangxu family had to take care of food and vegetables again.
中百仓储百步亭店的绿叶菜刚到货，月基本工资只拿1500元的张绪一口气买了近三百元的蔬菜、肉类和大米。
Just after the arrival of green leafy vegetables, the basic monthly salary was 1,500 yuan for vegetables, meat and rice at one sitting.
想买面粉却一直没找到，一问才知道面粉现在特别俏，上午10点超市开门没多久就卖完了。
Want to buy flour has not been found, only to find out that flour is now very popular, the supermarket opened at 10 a.m. shortly after the sold out.
一纸纸百字通告的背后，背负的是一座城市逾千万人口的日常生活。
On the back of a one-character circular paper is the daily life of more than ten million people in a city.
对于四十岁的张绪来说，早在2月6日上午就从新华社的报道中嗅到了不一样的“味道”。
As early as the morning of February 6, Zhang Xi, 40, smelt something different from the Xinhua report.
“战时状态决不能当逃兵，否则就会被永远钉在历史的耻辱柱上。
"A state of war must not be a deserter, or it will be forever nailed to the stigma of history.
”国务院副总理孙春兰的战时讲话，通过各类新闻推送到了上千万市民手中。
"Vice Premier Sun Chunlan's wartime speech reached tens of millions of people through various kinds of news.
“战时状态”，凸显疫情严峻。
The "wartime state" highlights the severity of the epidemic.
2月2日开始，武汉新增新冠肺炎确诊病例数每日破千，三道疫情防线紧急建立：社区及发热门诊组成第一道防线，从基层全面排查发热病人；方舱医院组成第二道防线，主攻轻症患者；定点医院与火神山、雷神山医院组成第三道防线，抢救重症、危重症患者。
Since February 2, Wuhan, the number of new cases of pneumonia confirmed daily break 1000, three emergency lines: community and fever clinics constitute the first line of defense, from the grass-roots comprehensive screening of fever patients, the cabin hospital formed a second defense line, the main attack of light patients; Ding Hospital and Fire Mountain, Lei Shenshan Hospital constitute a third line of defense, rescue serious, critically ill patients.
从1月24日除夕夜到2月17日，短短25天，208支医疗队、25972名队员驰援江城。
From New Year's Eve on January 24 to February 17, 208 medical teams and 25,972 members rushed to Jiangcheng in just 25 days.
12座方舱医院陆续启动，提供床位20461张；45家定点医院，开放19161张床位；16所省属高校被征用为储备隔离点，1.5万间隔离房间待用。
Twelve cabin hospitals have been opened, providing 20,461 beds; 45 designated hospitals have opened 19,161 beds; 16 provincial colleges have been requisitioned as reserve isolation points and 15,000 isolation rooms are ready for use.
这是一个国家的疫情应急响应。
This is a national emergency response to the epidemic.
巨量医疗资源的投入、分级诊疗体系的重建，“医疗挤兑”矛盾初步得到解决，但控制疫情蔓延最核心的一点，感染者底数并没有完全摸清。
A huge amount of medical resources have been invested in the reconstruction of the hierarchical system of diagnosis and treatment, and the contradiction of the "medical run" has been solved initially.
基于此，中国工程院院士钟南山直言，“武汉到现在还没有完全阻断人传人”。
Based on this, Zhong Nan Shan, academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, bluntly said, "Wuhan has not completely blocked human-to-human transmission."
2月12日，中央指导组副组长、中央政法委秘书长陈一新要求，当前要实行“三量管控”：控增量、减存量、防变量。
On February 12, Chen Xinxin, vice-chairman of the Central Steering Group and Secretary-General of the Central Political and Legal Commission, called for "three-level control": incremental control, reduction of stocks and variable prevention.
“封城”第24日，武汉开展了为期3天的集中拉网式大排查。
"Seal the city" 24, Wuhan launched a three-day intensive pull-out screening.
2月16日，刚刚履新4天的湖北省委常委、武汉市委书记王忠林在视频会上要求，“不漏一户、不漏一人”。
On Feb. 16, Hubei provincial Communist Party Standing Committee member Wang Zhonglin, who had just taken up his new four-day assignment, demanded in a video conference that "not a leak, not a single person."
他说，“只有找到人、查到人，才能落实‘应收尽收’”。
"Only when people are found and found can the 'receivable' be fulfilled," he said.
“武汉是决战之地，要集中力量打歼灭战，而不是松松垮垮打持久战。
Wuhan is a place of decisive battle and should concentrate on annihilation rather than languishing for a long time.
”王忠林向武汉全市干部做了“战前动员”。
"Wang Zhonglin made" pre-war mobilization "to Wuhan city cadres.
1非常时刻准确地说，武汉“大决战”是从2月5日开始的。
It is very accurate to say that the "Armageddon" in Wuhan began on February 5.
这一天，武汉市新冠肺炎疫情防控指挥部下了“死命令”：最晚至2月7日前摸排出所有疑似病例；争取在2月5日晚24时前，收治所有确诊病人。
On that day, Wuhan New Crown Pneumonia Control Command issued a "death order": by 7 February at the latest all suspected cases, try to treat all confirmed patients before 2400 hours.
当时的武汉，疫情正处于暴发流行期，在以色彩深浅表示感染程度的全国疫情分布图上，武汉的颜色深到发黑。
In Wuhan, where the epidemic was in the midst of an outbreak, Wuhan was darkened by a national map showing the extent of the infection in shades of color.
无法得到及时救助的很多人迫不得已通过社交平台求助，将精确到门牌号的家庭住址、身份证号等全部隐私，暴露在亿万网民面前——这是一条标准的求助帖格式。
Many people who are unable to get timely help are forced to seek help through social platforms, exposing their entire privacy, from family addresses to identity numbers, to hundreds of millions of netizens - a standard form of help sheet.
77岁的退休教师刘立，几经摸索终于在凌晨一点多开通了微博账号，仅仅为孙女求一个救命的机会。
Liu Li, a 77-year-old retired teacher, finally opened a microblogging account at one o'clock in the morning, just for her granddaughter to seek a life-saving opportunity.
女儿还未等到确诊就已离世，年过七旬的老两口和13岁的孙女都已经感染。
The daughter died before she was diagnosed, and both the 70-year-old couple and the 13-year-old granddaughter were infected.
他的微博主页第一条只有两个字，“你好”。
The first word on his Weibo home page is just two words, "Hello."
非常时期的武汉，核酸检测名额虽有增多，但改造和新建医院的速度远赶不上每日破千的新增确诊人数，依然有很多人不能住院。
Although the number of nucleic acid testing places has increased in Wuhan during the emergency period, the rate of renovation and construction of new hospitals has not kept pace with the number of newly diagnosed cases per day, and many people are still unable to be hospitalized.
从1月27日大年初三到2月14日，二十天不到，湖北电影制片厂员工常凯一家四口全部去世。
From January 27 to February 14, 20 days, Hubei film studio staff Changkai family all four died.
遗书中，常凯写父亲发病之时，“送至多家医院救治，均告无床位接收，多方求助，也还是一床难求，失望至极，回家自救”。
In the suicide note, Chang Kai wrote that when his father was ill, "sent to a number of hospitals for treatment, are admitted to bed-free, also a difficult bed, disappointed, home to help themselves.
床前尽孝寥寥数日，病毒也吞噬了他和姐姐的躯体。
After a few days of filial piety, the virus engulfed him and his sister.
彼时的武汉，集中收治重症患者的金银潭、肺科、中南这三家定点医院，仅有重症床位110张。
At that time, Wuhan, concentrated treatment of severe patients of gold and silver pool, lung department, central and south of these three designated hospitals, only 110 seriously ill beds.
火神山和雷神山医院的重症监护床位也仅有30张。
There are also only 30 intensive care beds in Mount Fire and Raytheon Mountain hospitals.
因为一床难求，有救护车送一个病人辗转六家医院都没被接收，最后只好将其送回家。
An ambulance carrying a patient through six hospitals was not accepted because of a difficult bed and had to be sent home.
2月8日，母亲快撑不下去的那一天，身着睡衣的汉阳女子李丽娜在阳台敲锣求助。
On February 8, the day my mother was dying, Li Lina, a Hanyang woman in pajamas, knocked on the balcony to ask for help.
曾在医疗系统工作过的李丽娜，认识不少医生朋友，但打遍手里所有熟人的电话，还是被告知床位太紧张。
Ms. Li, a former health-care worker, knows many of her doctor's friends, but calls all her acquaintances and is told the bed is too tight.
社区的反馈也一样，“已经登记上报街道了，正在排队”。
The feedback from the community, too, is "registered to the streets and is queuing up."
实际执行中，武汉市新冠肺炎疫情防控指挥部2月5日的这道“死命令”并未达到预期。
In practice, the Wuhan New Crown Pneumonia Command February 5, the "death order" did not meet expectations.
2月8日，时任湖北省委书记蒋超良在武汉市督导疫情防控工作中，再次指出要在两天之内将全市累积的所有疑似患者检测完毕。
February 8, then-Hubei Provincial Party Secretary Jiang Xiuliang in Wuhan city to supervise the prevention and control of the disease, again within two days will be the city's accumulated all suspected patients have been completed.
一天后，武汉启动“应收尽收”大排查。
A day later, Wuhan launched a "receivable" inventory.
事实上，早在1月24日，湖北省、武汉市主要领导出席的会议中即提到“确保无条件收治所有疑似患者”。
In fact, as early as January 24, the main leaders of Hubei and Wuhan cities attended a conference that referred to "ensuring unconditional treatment of all suspected patients."
次日，武汉市指挥部会议明确提出“即刻为各区尚未收治患者落实床位，分清轻重缓急，确保‘应收尽收’” 。
The following day, Wuhan City Command meeting clearly stated that "immediate implementation of beds for patients not admitted to the district, prioritization, to ensure 'receivable'."
从2月9日开始，3.4万名公务员、国企员工下沉到武汉三镇的1107个社区内，全天候全覆盖排查“四类人员”（确诊、疑似、发热和密切接触者），确保每个确诊、疑似、发热和密切接触者都能被安置到当时的31家定点医院、3家方舱医院和百余个由酒店、学校等场所改建成的集中隔离观察点。
From February 9, 34,000 civil servants and employees of state-owned enterprises sank to 1,107 communities in Wuhan, covering all-weather "four categories" (confirmed, suspected, feverish and in close contact), ensuring that each person diagnosed, suspected, feverish and in close contact could be accommodated in the then 31 designated hospitals, 3 cabin hospitals and more than 100 sites converted from hotels and schools into centralized quarantine observation points.
如果能顺利完成这一步，武汉市内最危险的传染源就能被彻底切断。
If we can successfully complete this step, Wuhan city's most dangerous source of infection can be completely cut off.
2“你是谁？从哪里来？要到哪里去？”接到街道“清零”要求的催促电话，是2月9日上午。
"Who are you? Where are you from? Where are you going?" Urged by the street "Clean Zero" call, February 9 morning.
武汉市江汉区某社区主任张娟所要面对的，是五千多户、近两万居民。
Wuhan Jianghan District, a community director Zhang Juan has to face, is more than 5,000 households, nearly 20,000 residents.
该社区至今共有超过20人确诊感染新冠肺炎。
More than 20 people in the community have so far been diagnosed with pneumonia.
虽想通过网络尽力实现“无接触排查”，但很多爹爹婆婆使用老年机，不会上网，电话也打不通，不得不上门排查。
Although the network to try to achieve "no contact screening," but many parents-in-law use the elderly machine, do not have access to the Internet, telephone can not be opened, had to door-to-door screening.
“我们规定，敲门后要退到1.5米外，不然人家害怕你有病毒。
"We require people to step back to 1. 5 meters after knocking on the door, or they will be afraid you have the virus.
”张娟说。
'said Zhang Juan.
张娟的办公桌位于社区服务站的最深处，桌上堆满了各种登记表，记录着社区工作人员从1月底至今的工作成果。
Ms. Zhang's desk, in the deepest part of the community service station, is filled with registration forms documenting the work of community workers from the end of January to the present.
对于社区而言，真正的“战时状态”始于2月9日，工作人员为居民登记的表格，标题改成了“战时状态接访记录表”。
For the community, the real "wartime state" began on February 9, when the staff was registered as a resident on a form entitled "War Status Receive Recorder."
这一天，张娟和4名工作人员早晨9点不到就坐在社区服务站，一遍遍拨打电话，要求居民上报体温和健康状况，撂下电话后，在记录本的最后一行画个钩，完成一户排查。
On that day, Zhang Juan and four staff members sat at the community service station before 9 a.m., called over and over, asked residents to report their temperature and health status, left the phone, drew a hook on the last line of the book and completed a house search.
一天下来，每人至少打了150个电话，“手机发烫”。
By the end of the day, everyone had made at least 150 calls, "cell phone irons."
庆幸的是，当天没有接到一个新增发热报告。
Fortunately, that day did not receive a new heating report.
对于从年前忙碌至今的张娟来说，这无疑是莫大的安慰。
For Zhang Juan from the busy year to date, this is no doubt a great comfort.
2月9日下午，张娟接到领导电话，要求当天必须把还没有完成两次核酸检测的疑似人员都摸排完。
On the afternoon of February 9, Zhang Juan received a call from her leaders, asking her to map out the suspected persons who had not completed two nucleic acid tests on the same day.
此前，核酸检测要等三天才能出结果，现在明显提速，送检后第二天就能出结果。
Before that, nucleic acid testing had to wait three days to produce results, now obviously faster, the next day after the test results.
晚上8点-9点，她接听和拨打了近二十个电话。
Between 8 and 9 p.m., she answered and made nearly twenty calls.
有人咨询问题，有人求助床位，还有人哭诉觉得自己染病了，寻求心理安慰。
Some ask questions, some ask for help, others cry that they feel sick and seek psychological comfort.
在居民眼中，社区俨然是万能救命稻草，一旦达不到要求，投诉扑面而来。
In the eyes of the residents, the community seems to be a universal lifesaver, once the requirements do not meet, complaints.
报疫情、困难户上门、填表、联系分配给社区的司机接送病人……社区共有十来个工作人员，年前就有人不堪压力辞职了。
Reporting outbreaks, hardship cases door-to-door, filling out forms, contacting drivers assigned to communities... There were a dozen workers in the community and people were under pressure to resign years ago.
社区排查人员进行个人消毒。
Community enumerators carry out personal disinfection.
（新华社/图）张娟和同事们有太多“想要崩溃的瞬间”。
Zhang Juan and her colleagues have too many "moments of wanting to break down."
一位八十多岁的老人发烧，儿子一来就要求解决问题，“我们告诉他床位要等，他开口就骂我书记怎么当的，你说这是一个社区能拍板决定的吗？”2月11日武汉实行小区封控令后，社区担子又重不少。
A man in his 80s had a fever, and when his son arrived, he asked for a solution. "We told him that his bed was going to wait.
社区工作人员、下沉的党员干部、小区保安轮番排班上岗，每天手持体温枪，问无数遍哲学问题：你是谁？从哪里来？要到哪里去？洪山区华大家园被称为“最牛小区”，1766户仅一人感染。
Community workers, sinking Party cadres and neighborhood security guards work in shifts, carrying body temperature guns every day and asking countless philosophical questions: Who are you, where are you from? Where are you going? Huada Home in the Hongshan area is called the "most bullish community" and only one person is infected.
小区一旦有人出问题，可以查到他所有出入信息。
Once someone in the neighborhood has a problem, he can find all his access information.
因疫情期间小区封闭，武汉蔡甸街一传销团伙食物耗尽自首，只有向社区求助。
Due to the closure of the area during the epidemic, a pyramid retail gang in Wuhan Cai Den Street exhausted food surrendered, only to ask the community for help.
百步亭花园社区的百步雅庭小区门口，有个小姑娘搬不动快递箱，保安想上去帮把手，被拒绝了。
Baebuting Garden community in the hundred step Yatting small community door, a little girl can not move express box, security guards want to help the handle, was rejected.
保安大叔想想没怪她，毕竟非常时期。
The security uncle thinks not blame her, after all very unusual time.
看似坚强，恐惧同样缠绕着江城居民。
Seemingly strong, fear also haunts the city's residents.
殡仪车抬着逝者从身旁经过的那一刻，张娟下意识地辨别了一下风向，生怕病毒随风吹来附在自己身上。
Funeral car carrying the deceased from the side of the moment, Zhang Juan subconsciously identified the wind, afraid of the virus with the wind attached to his body.
3免职、换帅，高压督战抗“疫”之战，关键在于摸清底数，分流“四类人员”。
3 dismissals, change marshal, high-pressure superintendent of the battle against "epidemic," the key is to find out the bottom, shunt "four categories of personnel."
2月9日发起的“应收尽收”大排查，官方后来称“户数排查的百分比达到98.6%，人数排查的百分比达到了99%”，但这项工作并没有实现如期效果。
An official survey of all accounts receivable launched on February 9 said that "the percentage of household checks reached 98.6 percent and the number of people screened reached 99 percent," but the results were not as good as expected.
湖北省委常委、武汉市委书记王忠林在新冠肺炎疫情防控指挥部的视频调度会上就认为，之前的这场大排查“大而化之的比较多”“在执行排查上态度不坚决、措施不严密、网眼太大”。
Hubei Provincial Standing Committee, Wuhan party secretary Wang Zhonglin in the New Crown Pneumonia Command video control session that the previous screening "more than a big but more" "not resolute in the implementation of screening, measures are lax, mesh too large.
2月9日晚，在将确诊还未住院的新冠肺炎重症患者转运至武汉同济医院中法新城院区的过程中，武昌区由于工作滞后、衔接无序、组织混乱，不仅转运车辆条件差，街道和社区工作人员也没有跟车服务，导致重症病人长时间等待，继而情绪失控。
On the night of February 9, during the transfer of the newly diagnosed SARS patients who had not been hospitalized to the French New Town Campus of Wuhan Tongji Hospital, Wuchang District not only suffered from poor transit vehicle conditions, but also street and community workers did not follow the bus service, causing severe patients to wait for a long time and lose control of their emotions.
通过媒体曝光这种强势途径，问题获得了超常的解决速度和处理力度。
Through the media exposure of such a strong approach, the problem obtained extraordinary resolution speed and strength.
“负责转运危重症病人的党员干部为什么不跟车？现在的武汉就是战时状态，这些人的行为十分恶劣。
"Why don't the Party cadres in charge of transporting critically ill patients follow the car? Wuhan is a wartime state, and these people behave badly."
”2月10日，中央赴湖北指导组紧急约谈武汉市副市长等3人，要求向患者挨个赔礼道歉，对相关责任人严肃问责。
On February 10, the central government went to the Hubei Municipal Guidance Team to interview three people, including the deputy mayor of Wuhan, and demanded an apology from each patient and serious accountability for those responsible.
当时，仅武汉一地，新冠肺炎的死亡病例数已接近2003年SARS造成的全球死亡人数。
At the time, Wuhan alone, the death toll from Newcastle pneumonia was close to the global death toll from SARS in 2003.
《人民日报》评论，约谈是在释放强烈的信号：战“疫”当前，失职失责者，必将受到严肃问责。
People's Daily commented that the interview was sending a strong signal that those responsible for the current "epidemic" would be held seriously accountable for their failures.
2月8日，中央向湖北空降两员大将——中央政法委委员、秘书长陈一新任中央指导组副组长，国家卫健委副主任王贺胜任湖北省委委员、常委。
On February 8, the central government parachuted two senior generals - a member of the Central Political and Law Commission and Vice-Chairman of the Secretary-General Chen Yi's new Central Steering Group.
同一天，湖北省卫健委党组书记和主任双双被免职，由王贺胜兼任两职。
On the same day, Hubei Wei Jiancheng party secretary and director were both dismissed, Wang He-sheng double-hatted.
两天后，习近平总书记戴着口罩，主动伸手腕测体温，在北京调研新冠肺炎疫情防控工作，他对社区居民说“非常时期，就不握手了”。
Two days later, General Xi Jinping, wearing a mask and actively stretching his wrists to take a temperature test, told the community in Beijing that he would not shake hands during an emergency.
调研完社区，习近平在地坛医院远程诊疗中心视频连线了金银潭医院、武汉协和医院和火神山医院，向武汉“喊话”，“武汉胜则湖北胜，湖北胜则全国胜”。
After studying the community, Xi connected the gold and silver pool hospital, Wuhan concord hospital and fire god mountain hospital to Wuhan, "Wuhan wins Hubei Shengsheng, Hubei wins the national victory."
2月13日，战“疫”正酣之际，湖北省委再有人事调整。
Feb. 13, the battle "plague" is now in the hour, Hubei provincial committee personnel adjustment again.
上海市长应勇接替金融系统出身的蒋超良，出任湖北省委书记；山东省委常委、济南市委书记王忠林接替企业出身的马国强，出任湖北省委常委、武汉市委书记。
The mayor of Shanghai should take over as secretary of the Hubei Provincial Party Committee, replacing Ma Guoqiang, a corporate-born general secretary of the Shandong Provincial Committee and the secretary of the Jinan Municipal Committee.
这次火线换帅，让很多人想到SARS期间扭转战局的北京临时换帅。
This time the fire change, let many people think of SARS during the reversal of the war in Beijing temporary Shuai.
忙着社区排查、填表统计的张娟，无暇顾及地方官员“下课”，更没时间看新闻联播，但她能感受到层层传导的压力：每天早、中、晚，她都会接到街道的电话，对方不停催问确诊病例安排到了哪一步。
Zhang Juan, busy with community checks and forms, has no time for local officials to "close classes" or watch news broadcasts, but she can feel the pressure of transmission: Every morning, midday and late, she gets a call from the street asking what the other person is doing to confirm the case.
压力在最近三天全市拉网清底大排查中达到顶峰：武汉市委书记王忠林在市新冠肺炎疫情防控指挥部召开的视频例会上如此督战：再发现一例居家确诊或疑似病人，“拿区委书记、区长是问”。
Wuhan city party secretary Wang Zhonglin attended a regular video meeting with the municipal headquarters of the People's Liberation Army on the latest case of a confirmed or suspected patient in China.
“领导给社区下的死命令是优先保证确诊病人100%收治，一旦督导组发现有人没收进去，就会问责。
"The leader's death order to the community is to give priority to 100 percent of admissions and to hold people accountable if they do not find them."
”张娟分析，这是新来的书记发力了。
"Zhang Juan analysis, this is the new Secretary of the strength.
4方舱医院“缓增量”武汉的“三道防线”中，方舱医院将轻症患者与外界隔离，防止病毒传染传播给其他人，起到“缓增量”的作用。
In Wuhan's "three lines of defense," Fang Cao Hospital acts as a "gradual increment" by isolating people with mild cases from the outside world and preventing the spread of the virus to others.
尽管硬件条件比不上定点医院，但已是轻症患者的最好选择。
Although the hardware condition is inferior to the fixed point hospital, already is the light disease patient's best choice.
武汉并非方舱医院的首次亮相，汶川和玉树地震中就曾出现过它们的身影。
Wuhan is not the first appearance of the cabin hospital, Wenchuan and Yushu earthquake have appeared in their shadow.
建方舱医院也不是武汉提出的，而是由专家提议并由中央下令推动的。
The building of the Fang Cavern Hospital was not proposed by Wuhan, but was proposed by experts and promoted by the central government.
2月1日，中国工程院副院长、呼吸与危重症医学专家王辰到达武汉。
February 1, the Chinese Academy of Engineering Vice-President, breathing and critical medical experts Wang Chen arrived in Wuhan.
大批患者在社会上流动、在家中居住隔离，容易交叉感染，这样的场景，让在SARS时期曾担任北京医疗专家组组长的王辰觉得不妙，于是提出了建方舱医院的想法。
The prospect of a large number of patients moving through society, living in isolation at home and becoming cross-infected made Wang Chen, who was the head of the Beijing medical expert group during the SARS period, feel uncomfortable and put forward the idea of building a square cabin hospital.
国家应急医疗队（广东队）刚到武汉的2月4日，48小时内建起的江汉方舱医院，还处于不断梳理流程的状态。
The Jianghan Fangkang Hospital, built by the National Emergency Medical Team (Guangdong team) within 48 hours of its arrival in Wuhan on February 4, is still in the process of being sorted out.
近两千张床位由不同省份的医疗队接管，为了更了解患者病情，由广东省第二人民医院抽调的这支队伍向指挥部提议，每支医疗队每天固定区域值守。
Nearly 2,000 beds were taken over by medical teams from different provinces, and in order to better understand the patient's condition, the team, drawn from the Second People's Hospital in Guangdong Province, proposed to the command that each medical team be assigned a fixed area on a daily basis.
“速成”的方舱医院，医护和服务设施难免跟不上。
"Accelerated" cabin hospitals, medical and service facilities are inevitably unable to keep up.
2月上旬的武汉，凌晨一点的温度常常只有3度，由会展中心改造的方舱医院内没有暖气，有老人吃不好睡不好，在医护人员面前耍起了小脾气。
Wuhan in the first half of February, the temperature is often only 3 degrees in the early morning, by the exhibition center of the renovation of the cabin hospital no heating, elderly people can not sleep well, in front of the medical staff played a small temper.
2月7日深夜，汉口人胡明洪冒雨在洪山体育馆外的露天场地等了4个小时，终于办完交接手续住进了武昌方舱医院。
Late at night on February 7, Han Chinese Hu Minghong waited for four hours in the open air outside Hongshan Stadium before finally completing the handover formalities and staying in Wuchang Fang Hospital.
好在那时，一切正逐渐步入正轨——每位患者都配上了电热毯，元宵节那天，他还吃到了萝卜烧肉和基围虾。
By then, things were starting to get right - each patient was fitted with an electric blanket and, on Lantern Festival, he had radish meat and prawns.
气温陡降的2月15日，上任刚3天的湖北省委书记应勇来到武汉客厅方舱医院，第一个关注的问题就是“现在舱内温度多少？”在方舱医院，一名医生要负责约50个病人。
On Feb. 15, just three days after taking office, Hubei Provincial Communist Party secretary Ying Yong arrived at the Wuhan living room square cabin hospital. The first question of concern was "What's the temperature in the cabin?" In the square cabin hospital, a doctor was responsible for about 50 patients.
治疗大同小异，医生给胡明洪开了盐酸阿比多尔、磷酸奥司他韦、莲花清瘟胶囊和袋装的中药肺炎1号方“寒湿郁肺汤”。
The treatment was much the same. The doctor prescribed Abidol hydrochloride, oseltamivir phosphate, lotus rinderpest capsule and Chinese medicine Pneumonia No. 1 in bags.
护士会提醒他吃药，但病人太多忙不过来，病友间就需要互相提醒。
The nurse will remind him to take the medicine, but the patient is too busy, the patient needs to remind each other.
湖北省肿瘤医院医疗队副队长王俊，是最早进驻武昌方舱医院的医生之一。
Wang Jun, vice-captain of Hubei Oncology Hospital Medical Team, was one of the first doctors to enter Wuchang Fangkang Hospital.
他和团队摸索出了一套“患者自治”的管理模式——将患者分区、选出区长，由患者自主维持秩序。
He and his team found a way to manage "patient autonomy" - to divide patients into districts, elect district chiefs, and leave patients to maintain order on their own.
A区的区长把病中心得写成长文，在微信群里分享；B区的区长发现晚上睡觉时体育馆的灯没法关，于是联系朋友送来了两百多个眼罩。
The mayor of A wrote a growth note to share with the microphone group. The mayor of Area B found that the lights in the gymnasium could not be turned off at night, so he contacted a friend and brought in more than 200 blindfolds.
方舱医院内的床位也正在加速周转。
The beds in the cabin hospital are also speeding up turnover.
2月11日，首批28名患者从武昌方舱医院治愈出院，此后累计有超过250名轻症患者从四家方舱医院康复出院，新的轻症患者被转运至此。
On February 11, the first 28 patients were discharged from Wuchang Fang Hospital. Since then, a cumulative total of more than 250 light cases have been discharged from four cabin hospitals and new patients have been transferred there.
与此同时，还有8家方舱医院陆续启用，预计可收治超过2万名患者。
At the same time, eight cabin hospitals have been opened, with an expected capacity of more than 20,000 patients.
患病之际，人们常常被一些寻常的事物所打动。
In times of sickness, people are often moved by common things.
一位戴着口罩的“读书哥”半躺看书的照片上了微博热搜，连作者弗朗西斯·福山都在推特上转发了这条新闻。
A masked "brother-in-law" was found half-asleep in a tweeted tweet by Francis Fukuyama, the author.
新疆维吾尔自治区人民医院医生巴哈尔身着防护服，和病患们跳起了“黑走马”舞。
Dr. Bahar, a doctor at the People's Hospital in Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, danced with patients in protective clothing.
来自山东齐鲁医院的医护人员在48小时内编写出了武汉方言实用手册——“滋一哈：擦拭一下”“你蛮灵醒：你很漂亮”，减少和老年人的交流障碍。
In 48 hours, doctors and nurses from Qilu Hospital in Shandong Province compiled a practical manual for Wuhan dialect called "Zikha: Wipe". "You're pretty: you're beautiful," reducing communication barriers with the elderly.
有医护人员在防护服上写上了“周黑鸭”“热干面”，他们解释说“其实很简单，就是想吃了”。
Some medical staff wrote "Chow Hei Duck" and "Hot Dried Noodles" on the protective clothing, explaining that "it is actually very simple, just want to eat."
5“顶配”资源倾巢出动在医疗资源捉襟见肘的武汉，定点医院重在拯救危症，承担“减存量”的作用。
5 "Matching" resources are deployed in Wuhan, where medical resources are stretched thin, the designated hospital is focused on saving critical diseases and assuming the role of "reducing the stock."
在这座现代大都市拥有一张床位，意味着有了专业的医护人员和医疗设备支持。
Having a bed in this modern metropolis means having professional medical staff and equipment to support it.
但最紧张的一天，全市定点医院仅剩空床123张。
But the most tense day, the city's designated hospital only 123 empty beds.
“宁可让床等人，也不要让人等床。
"Better a bed to wait than a bed to wait.
”2月11日在方舱医院考察时孙春兰说，要加快增设床位并提高收治能力。
During a visit to Fang's cabin hospital on February 11, he said he needed to speed up the construction of new beds and improve treatment capacity.
一切与病魔生死竞速。
Everything competes with illness and death.
建设高峰期，雷神山医院的7435名施工人员、1491台挖机吊车昼夜不停地施工。
The construction peak period, Lei Shenshan Hospital's 7,435 construction personnel, 1,491 excavator crane construction day and night.
1月24日、2月2日、2月13日、2月17日，人民空军先后四次驰援武汉，出动空军运输机30架次，紧急运送军队支援湖北医疗队和物资。
On four occasions, on 24 January, 2 February, 13 February and 17 February, the People's Air Force flew 30 air transport sorties to Wuhan to urgently transport troops to support the Hubei medical team and supplies.
2月9日这天，超过40架包机把近六千名医护人员送到了武汉天河机场。
On February 9, more than 40 charter planes took nearly 6,000 medical personnel to Wuhan Tianhe Airport.
北协和、南湘雅、东齐鲁、西华西，医疗界四大“天团”会师武汉。
North Concorde, South Xiangya, East Qilu, West West, the medical community of the four "Tianyuan" division Wuhan.
北京医院、北京协和医院、中日医院等6家在京委属委管医院也投入了战斗。
Six hospitals, including Beijing Hospital, Beijing Concorde Hospital and China-Japan Hospital, have also taken part in the fighting at the Beijing Commission Hospitals.
就连一些宁夏固原、西宁湟源等四五线小城，也抽调精兵强将驰援武汉。
Even some Ningxia Guyuan, Xining Huangyuan, and other 45-line small city, also draw on the elite will help Wuhan.
比起一般床位，更紧缺的是重症病房和配套资源。
More scarce than ordinary beds are intensive care units and ancillary resources.
同济医院中法院区、光谷院区，协和医院西院，湖北省人民医院东院……在汉的委属委管医院和省属大医院被紧急改建成集中收治重症病例的定点医院，床位一下子扩大到了五千张。
In Tongji Hospital, the court district, the Guanggu courtyard, the west hospital of the Concorde Hospital and the east hospital of Hubei Province People's Hospital were urgently converted into designated hospitals for the centralized treatment of serious cases.
全国医疗界的“顶配”资源倾巢出动，整建制地接管这些医院或病区。
The "top-up" resources of the nation's medical establishment have been deployed to take over the hospitals or sick areas.
2月1日，广州医科大学附属第一医院副院长张挪富带领团队接管了协和西院重症监护室（ICU），全院八百个病人中至少有10%属于危重症，急需插管，而ICU病区只有20张床。
On February 1, Zhang Novu, vice-president of Guangzhou Medical University's First Affiliated Hospital, led a team to take over the intensive care unit (ICU) of the Western Concorde Hospital. At least 10% of the hospital's 800 patients were critically ill and in urgent need of intubation, compared with 20 beds in the ICU ward.
国家卫健委主任马晓伟和医政医管局副局长焦雅辉也急了，问有什么办法可以降低病死率。
National Health Committee Director Ma Xiaowei and Deputy Director of Hospital Authority Jiao Yahui also anxious, asked what can be done to reduce the fatality rate.
“在普通病房开展有创插管，只有这个办法。
"This is the only way to do invasive intubation in a general ward.
”张挪富回答。
"said Zhang Nov-fu.
来到武汉后，张挪富既是个专家，又当起了管家，每天不光负责临床工作，还要管后勤，甚至动用私人关系四处借设备。
When he came to Wuhan, Zhang Nofu was both an expert and a housekeeper. He was not only responsible for clinical work, but also took care of logistics and even used personal connections to borrow equipment.
国家卫健委领导当场拍板，想尽一切办法调配设备。
National health committee leader beat the board on the spot, want to deploy equipment by all means.
全国两千多名ICU护士先后被调配到了武汉，国家卫健委还要求驰援的医疗队必须自带呼吸机、监护仪、ECMO等配套的生命支持设备。
More than 2,000 ICU nurses have been deployed to Wuhan, and the state health committee has asked medical teams to bring their own life-support equipment such as ventilators, monitors and ECMO.
带着患者闯关的医护人员，自身也在闯关。
With the patient through the medical personnel, they are also breaking through the barrier.
厚重的防护服一穿就是6个小时，这意味着不能喝水不能上厕所，第一次经历“三级防护”的90后护士循环着头晕、胸闷、干呕的状态，只能蹲在地上暂作缓解。
Heavy protective clothing lasted six hours, meaning no water was allowed to go to the toilet, and the first 90-year-old nurse experienced dizziness, chest tightness and nausea and had to squat on the floor for temporary relief.
有医生发现，鼻梁低也是件好事，至少N95口罩一直戴着不会把鼻梁压出疮。
Doctors have found that low nasal girders are also a good thing, at least the N95 mask has not been worn to crush sore noses.
2月10日晚间的新闻发布会上，时任武汉市委书记马国强介绍，经过两天努力，开拓病床，之前未住院的1499名重症患者已经全部入院。
At a press conference on the evening of February 10, then-Wuhan party secretary Ma Guoqiang said that after two days of efforts to open up hospital beds, 1499 patients who had not been hospitalized had all been hospitalized.
并不是所有的战“疫”故事都拥有美好的结局。
Not all "plague" stories have a happy ending.
滴滴快车司机林方曾接到过武汉市中心医院的一名护士，当晚，她护理的重症病人没能抢救过来。
Lin Fang, a drip-drip express driver who had received a nurse from Wuhan Central Hospital, failed to rescue the critically ill patients she cared for that night.
林方问她怕不怕，她说当然怕。
Lin asked her if she was afraid. She said of course she was.
两人随后沉默了，不知该说些什么。
They then fell silent, not knowing what to say.
6拐点何时出现？2月12日，武汉市538例患者治愈出院，全市新增确诊病例连续两天下降。
When did the inflection point appear Feb. 12, 538 patients were cured and discharged from Wuhan city.
这一天，上海援鄂医疗队队长郑军华开始了在金银潭医院第20天的工作。
On that day, Zhang Junhua, the leader of the medical team in Hubei, began his 20th day work at the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
作为最早到达武汉的医疗队，度过了最初的适应和磨合，他的心情早已平静，只盼望武汉的疫情拐点能早日出现，“对于医疗队，这意味着希望和信心”。
As the first medical team arrived in Wuhan, after the initial adaptation and wear, his mood has long been calm, only hope that Wuhan outbreak of the inflection point, "for the medical team, this means hope and confidence.
不过2月13日，湖北省卫健委一反常态，推迟了每天7时前后发布的疫情动态。
However, February 13, Hubei Wei Jianghuang an abnormal situation, delayed the release of the epidemic around 7: 00 each day.
8时30分，“武汉发布”官微推送了最新的疫情数据，张娟停下手头的工作，愣了愣神——武汉全市新增确诊病例13436例（含临床诊断病例），比过去每天提高了近10倍。
At 8: 30, "Wuhan issued" official micro-push the latest epidemic data, Zhang Juan stopped work, Leng Lengsheng - Wuhan, the city of a new confirmed cases of 13,436 cases (including clinical diagnosis), almost 10 times the previous day.
其实一天前的2月12日，在武汉市疫情防控指挥部的会议上，陈一新就点出了武汉疫情的严峻形势——依然处于暴发流行期，新发病例仍处于高位，感染者底数还没有完全摸清，蔓延扩散也没有较为精准的估计预测。
In fact, one day ago, at a meeting of Wuhan city's epidemic prevention and control command, Chen Xinmin pointed out the serious situation of Wuhan epidemic situation - still in the outbreak period, new cases are still at high levels, the number of infected persons has not been fully known, spread and spread of the spread of no more accurate estimates.
好消息是，统计口径的变化，让那些延误多日、符合CT表现等临床诊断的患者，终于可以确诊入院。
The good news is that the change in the calibre of statistics has allowed patients who have been delayed for many days to meet clinical diagnosis, such as CT findings, to be finally admitted to hospital.
13日开始，武汉地区的新增确诊病例大幅回落，但依旧是全国疫情最严重的城市。
Wuhan began on the 13th, new confirmed cases fell significantly, but is still the most serious epidemic in the country's cities.
2月17日，钟南山院士团队与武汉前方的广东医疗队ICU治疗团队开展远程视频会诊时，钟南山指出，新建或改造医院的速度，远比不上确诊病例每天一千多的增速，若不切断传播源头，降低死亡率并不现实。
On Feb. 17, Zhong Nan Shan academician team and the Guangdong Medical Corps in front of Wuhan conducted remote video consultation with the ICU treatment team, Zhong Nan-shan pointed out that the speed of building or renovating hospitals is far from the 1,000-plus-a-day growth rate of confirmed cases.
武汉的确诊病例中，重症占比18%。
Wuhan confirmed cases, serious illness accounted for 18%.
接管ICU病房至今，张挪富团队共接收了36位极危重症患者，接近50%的死亡率，时常让这位钟南山团队在汉的负责人感到无力。
Since taking over the ICU ward, Zhang's team has admitted 36 critically ill patients, nearly 50% of the death rate, often leaving the Zhong Nan-shan team in charge of Han feeling powerless.
国家卫健委医政医管局副局长焦雅辉透露，武汉市重症病例从发病到住院平均9.84天。
Jiao Yahui, deputy director of the National Health Care and Hospital Authority, revealed that Wuhan had an average of 9.84 serious cases from onset to hospitalization.
10天的等待过程中，轻症恶化成了重症，导致武汉的危重症患者病情比其他地区更重，救治难度比SARS时期更大。
In the course of the 10-day waiting period, the disease deteriorated into a serious illness, causing Wuhan patients more serious than other areas, more difficult to treat than the SARS period.
病情一拖再拖，等到了终末期才转至ICU，医生往往无力回天。
The condition is delayed until the end of the transition to the ICU, doctors are often powerless.
“收到的病人太滞后了。
"The patients received are too late.
”中南医院重症医学科ICU有16张床位，病人大多从其他医院转诊至此，有些还曾经历过心脏骤停。
The ICU, an intensive care unit in the South China Hospital, has 16 beds, with patients mostly referred to it from other hospitals, some of whom have experienced cardiac arrest.
对于新冠肺炎，全世界都没有特效的治疗方法，中南大学重症医学科主任彭志勇和团队只能尽力保证病人不因缺氧而死亡。
There are no specific treatments for pneumonia worldwide, and Peng Zhiyong, director of intensive care at Zhongnan University, and his team can only try to ensure that patients do not die from lack of oxygen.
7总攻“清零”在投入了巨大的人力和物力后，武汉仍然没有彻底查清感染底数，仍然有病患到不了隔离点，得不到医疗救护。
After putting enormous human and material resources into the campaign, Wuhan still hasn't made a thorough investigation of the number of infections, and there are still patients unable to reach the isolation point, access to medical care.
这场大决战，似乎还没有鸣锣收兵的迹象。
There seems to be no sign of a final showdown.
2月16日，武汉市启动为期3天的集中拉网式大排查，摸清底数。
On February 16, Wuhan City launched a three-day intensive pull-in screening to find out the bottom.
这一天，武汉市连发四道金令，全面升级防控标准。
On this day, Wuhan city issued four gold orders, comprehensive upgrading of prevention and control standards.
王忠林特别强调要落实5个“百分之百”：确诊患者百分之百应收尽收，疑似患者百分之百核酸检测，发热病人百分之百进行检测，密切接触者百分之百隔离，小区百分之百实行24小时封闭管理。
Wang placed special emphasis on the implementation of five "100 percent": 100 percent collection of confirmed patients, 100 percent nucleic acid testing of suspected patients, 100 percent testing of fever patients, 100 percent isolation of close contacts, and 100 percent 24-hour containment in small areas.
这一天，武汉市疫情防控指挥部新设立了床位保障组、疾病控制组、党建考核组、援汉医疗队接待协调组。
On that day, the Wuhan Prevention and Control Command set up a new bedspace security team, disease control group, party construction and evaluation team, medical team to receive and coordinate.
相比之前指挥部的设置，这些小组无不是针对当前防疫工作的重点、难点、短板、弱项。
Compared to the previous command of the establishment, these groups are aimed at the current epidemic prevention focus, difficulties, short board, weak points.
16日晚接到大排查的通知后，洪山区张家湾街万科金色城市就开始了准备工作。
The evening of 16 received a large screening notice, Hongshan Zhangjiawan Street Wanke Gold City began preparations.
社区副书记徐秋思走进居民楼，打开电表箱，对照手上的入住登记表，核查是否有“漏网之鱼”。
Community Deputy Secretary Xu Qiusi walked into the residential building, opened the electric meter box, check against the check-in registration form, to check if there are "fish leakage."
还有网格员挨家挨户地数楼栋住户亮灯情况，对比前期排查数据。
There are grid workers door-to-door number of buildings lights, compared with the previous inventory data.
14位干部获得火线提拔。
Fourteen cadres were promoted by fire.
陈一新说，要在火线中选拔战将、猛将，真正把“官帽”用于激励更多党员干部在战疫中冲锋陷阵、拼搏奉献。
Chen Xin said that to select generals and generals in the line of fire, really use the "official hat" to inspire more party cadres in the battle against the battle trap, dedication.
决战的气氛仍在延续。
The atmosphere of the decisive battle continued.
协和医院将肿瘤中心院区紧急改造成了新冠肺炎危重症患者救治定点院区，加开了850张病床。
The Concorde Hospital converted the oncology center area into an emergency ward for critically ill patients with Newcrown Pneumonia, opening an additional 850 beds.
医生们仍源源不断地向武汉集结，一些医院的呼吸、感染和ICU三大科室的医护人员，几乎已被抽空。
Doctors are still piling up in Wuhan, and the breathing, infection and ICU medical staff in some hospitals have almost been evacuated.
为了防止有人发烧不上报私下吃药，湖北省全面排查通过实体药店或网上订购降热退烧止咳类药品的人员，就连便利店门口也配备了体温检测员。
In order to prevent people from having a fever and failing to report private drug use, Hubei Province has a complete inventory of people who order antitussive drugs to reduce fever and cough through physical pharmacies or online. Even convenience stores are equipped with temperature checkers.
中百仓储水果湖店卷帘门紧闭，从2月18日起，武昌区的所有超市只接收社区团购客户，不再对个人销售生活物资，如有违反，按照“战时状态”的相关要求，依法依规严处；汉阳区则规定，凡入超市购物者，需持有汉阳区新冠肺炎防控指挥部办公室统一印制的《居民通行证》。
Since February 18, all supermarkets in Wuchang district have only accepted community groups to purchase goods and no longer sell household goods to individuals. In case of violation, they are strictly punished according to law according to the relevant requirements of the "wartime state.
2月17日，湖北神农架林区无新增病例，确诊病例全部治愈，已经实现“清零”，这给疫情防控处于“最吃劲的关键阶段”的武汉带来信心，正如陈一新所说：“想要疫情出‘拐点’，先要信心出‘拐点’”。
Feb. 17, Hubei Shennongjia forest area, no new cases, confirmed cases have been cured, has achieved "zero", the epidemic prevention and control in the "most difficult critical phase" Wuhan, as Chen Xin said: "To epidemic out of the 'inflection point', you should have confidence in the 'inflection point'.
武汉“大决战”，只有武汉自己知道伤口有多大，他们来自于楼下的救护车或殡葬车，身边亲友的求助。
Wuhan "Armageddon," only Wuhan knows how big the wound, they came from the downstairs ambulance or funeral car, close to the family and friends for help.
漩涡之外的人们只能看到一个数字，看不到背后的悲欢离合。
People outside the vortex can only see a number, not behind the joys and sorrows.
疮痍之下，留存着希望。
There is hope in the ruins.
如同被按下了暂停键，漩涡中心的武汉异常冷清。
As if pressed the pause key, the Whirlpool Center Wuhan is unusually cold and cheerless.
只有到了夜晚，灯光秀墙体字母闪烁着“武汉加油”。
Only in the evening, the light show wall letters flashing "Wuhan refueling."
来自福建中医药大学附属人民医院的护士长陈水凤，目前正在支援武汉市金银潭医院。
Chen Shui-feng, head nurse from the People's Hospital attached to Fujian University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, is supporting the Jintan Hospital in Wuhan.
病人对她说的一句话，被她记在了日记本里：“武大的樱花马上就要开了，等我们好了，一起去看樱花。
What the patient said to her, she wrote in a diary: "Wu Da cherry blossoms will soon open, when we are good, together to see the cherry.
”（应受访者要求，文中张绪、张娟、林方为化名，南方周末记者王伟凯对本文亦有贡献）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
At the request of interviewees, Zhang Xu, Zhang Juan and Lin Fang are aliases, and Southern Weekend reporter Wang Weikai contributed to this article.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
决胜武汉进行时。
The decisive victory takes place in Wuhan.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "决胜武汉进行时";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; when Wuhan won.
var msg_desc = "拉网排查，顶配援汉；火线换帅，高压督战";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
