血浆治疗法：疗效待定，可为寻找抗体和疫苗打基础。
Plasma therapy: Therapeutic effects to be determined, for the search for antibodies and vaccines laid the foundation.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
The following article comes from 健言。
The following article comes from good words.
Author 崔慧莹。
Author Cui Ying.
健言。
Good words.
“健言”关注我们每一个人赖以生存的食品、药品、医疗大健康话题，并带来最深度、最有价值的解读。
"Jianyu" focuses on the food, medicines, and health issues on which each of us depends, and brings the deepest and most valuable interpretations.
线下“健言沙龙”追求建设性想法，倡导跨界、多元、碰撞、共识的交流准则，务求新思维、新视野、新观点，立志打造中国食药健康领域最具影响力的青年智库。
In pursuit of constructive ideas, the "talkative salon" advocates cross-boundary, multi-faceted, collision and consensus exchange guidelines, seeking new ideas, perspectives and perspectives to create the most influential youth think tank in the field of Chinese medicine and health.
。
.
▲江夏区第一人民医院(协和江南医院)副院长刘本德。
Jiang Xia District First People's Hospital (Concorde Jiangnan Hospital) Vice-President Liu Bende.
（南方周末记者 崔慧莹/图）全文共3875字，阅读大约需要8分钟。
(Southern Weekend reporter Cui Huiying / Picture) The full text is 3875 words and it takes about 8 minutes to read.
2020年2月19日公布的第六版诊疗方案提出“康复者血浆治疗”，适用于病情进展较快、重型和危重型患者。
The 6th edition of the diagnosis and treatment plan, published on February 19, 2020, calls for "plasma treatment of rehabilitated persons," which is suitable for patients with fast-progressing, severe and critical conditions.
“最佳的治疗方法，还是直接对付新冠病毒的特异性抗体和疫苗。
"The best treatment is still to deal directly with the specific antibodies and vaccines of the new crown virus.
”刘本德说。
"said Liu Bender.
他们希望在输血治疗的过程中，找到好的病例，为寻找特异性抗体和疫苗的开发，打下基础。
They hope to find good cases in the course of blood transfusion treatment and lay the groundwork for the development of specific antibodies and vaccines.
”“理论上讲，血浆里有抗体，但每个人血液里有多少抗体还不一样，人类机体的免疫系统差别也很大，目前仅个别案例取得初步疗效，想证明效果，还需要更多证据。
"In theory, there are antibodies in the plasma, but the number of antibodies in each person's blood is not the same, and the immune systems of the human body are very different.
”本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 崔慧莹南方周末实习生 周嘉珺责任编辑 | 汪韬在武汉，至少有十几位新冠肺炎治愈者在看到招募信息后成功献血，他们此前从没想到，安静流淌在自己血管里的约五千毫升鲜血，携带有“抗体解药”，也许能治愈还在病痛中的患者。
This article begins at Southern Weekend without authorization to reproduce & # 160; & # 45; Southern Weekend Journalist Cui Jiaying Southern Weekend Intern & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & #
2020年2月13日晚，金银潭医院院长张定宇在新闻发布会上，公开恳请康复患者“伸出胳膊，捐献宝贵血浆”。
On the evening of February 13, 2020, Zhang Dingyu, director of the gold and silver pool hospital, publicly pleaded with convalescent patients to "extend their arms and donate precious plasma."
据南方周末记者了解，与血浆治疗相关的临床试验及应用，已在武汉、上海、山西太原、江苏徐州等多地展开，全国至少有四十余位康复患者完成捐献，超百名符合条件的康复患者完成预约登记。
According to Southern Weekend reporter, the clinical trials and applications related to plasma treatment have been carried out in Wuhan, Shanghai, Shanxi Taiyuan and Xuzhou, Jiangsu Province, where at least 40 convalescent patients have made donations and more than 100 eligible convalescent patients have registered for appointment.
这一“古老”疗法给患者带来了新的希望，相关血制品概念股也集体上涨。
This "ancient" treatment has given patients new hope, and the related blood products concept shares rose collectively.
但在临床医学、免疫学界，针对血浆治疗的效果及安全性，多位专家表达了审慎观望态度。
But in the field of clinical medicine and immunology, many experts expressed their cautious attitude towards the efficacy and safety of plasma therapy.
“输血是一把双刃剑，有风险。
Blood transfusion is a double-edged sword with risks.
”新冠肺炎血浆疗法首倡者、江夏区第一人民医院(协和江南医院)副院长刘本德告诉南方周末记者，“在当前缺乏有效治疗方法的情况下，这是没有办法的办法，可以谨慎地通过回输康复者血浆的治疗来救急。
"In the absence of an effective treatment, there is no alternative to carefully treating patients with recovered plasma," Liu Bender, head of plasma treatment for Newcrown Pneumonia and vice-president of the First People's Hospital in Jiangxia District (Concorde Jiangnan Hospital), told Southern Weekend.
”他所在的医院，已有7例患者输入了康复者的血浆。
In his hospital, seven patients have been fed plasma from convalescent patients.
“最佳的治疗方法，还是直接对付新冠病毒的特异性抗体和疫苗。
"The best treatment is still to deal directly with the specific antibodies and vaccines of the new crown virus.
”刘本德说。
"said Liu Bender.
他们希望在输血治疗的过程中，找到好的病例，为寻找特异性抗体和疫苗的开发，打下基础。
They hope to find good cases in the course of blood transfusion treatment and lay the groundwork for the development of specific antibodies and vaccines.
Play▲访新冠肺炎血浆疗法首倡者（拍摄 南方周末记者崔慧莹 剪辑 南方周末实习生 宋炳晨 / 视频）1血浆治疗，疫情期间常被重启，疗效不好说刘本德整个春节都住在医院，不断有朋友找来，深夜打电话说“中招”确诊了，求他帮忙找床位住院，患者去世的消息也不断传来。
(South Weekend reporter Cui Bingchen / video) 1 Plasma therapy, often restarted during the Chinese New Year, Liu Bende spent the Spring Festival in the hospital, friends constantly called late at night to say that the diagnosis, ask him to help find beds hospital, the news of the death of the patient.
对刘本德来说，陷入舆论争议、媒体关注的风暴，正是从2月13日晚发布会介绍这一疗法开始。
For Liu, the storm of controversy and media attention began with the introduction of the treatment at a press conference on February 13.
在刘本德看来，目前对危重症患者的抢救方式，包括呼吸机、人工肺ECMO、血液滤过等多种方法，“效果都不是很好”。
According to Liu, the current rescue methods for critically ill patients, including ventilator, artificial lung ECMO, blood filtration, and so on, "the results are not very good."
比如ECMO对单纯的肺部病变治疗更有效，但新冠病毒攻击的靶器官太多了，既进攻肺，又进攻心脏，很多的患者死于严重的脓毒血症和心肌炎。
ECMO, for example, is more effective in treating simple lung lesions, but the new crown virus attacks too many target organs, attacking both the lungs and the heart, with many patients dying of sepsis and myocarditis.
研发新药需要时间，但危重病人的病情，可能在数小时内急剧恶化，“我们的重症病区，1个患者要配4名护士，一方面随时监控患者的各项生命指标，另一方面患者的吃喝拉撒，都得由护士协助完成。
It takes time to develop a new drug, but the condition of a critically ill person can deteriorate dramatically within hours. "In our critical area, a patient needs four nurses to monitor the patient's vital signs all the time.
”刘本德说。
"said Liu Bender.
血浆疗法是最后的武器之一，虽然扎进血管的瞬间就意味着患者要冒着排异的风险，但无论成败得失也要一拼。
Plasma therapy is one of the last weapons, although the moment a blood vessel is pierced means that the patient is at risk of rejection, and gains and losses come and go.
早在1月20日，新冠肺炎康复者血浆采集项目就已启动。
As early as January 20, a plasma collection program for patients recovering from Newcastle Pneumonia was launched.
首批血浆来自江夏区中医院、江夏区第一人民医院的二十多名新冠病毒感染的医务人员，在康复后10天献血。
The first batch of plasma was donated by more than 20 newly infected medical staff from Jiangxia TCM and Jiangxia First People's Hospital after 10 days of rehabilitation.
目前，在武汉市江夏区一共有9例患者接受血浆治疗，另有4例在金银潭医院。
At present, 9 patients were treated with plasma and 4 cases were treated in Jiangxia district of Wuhan City.
“我们医院的7例，没有发现一例输血浆后恶化，而且2月15日已有一例症状较轻的患者治愈出院。
"In seven of our cases, no case of plasma transfusion was detected and on February 15 a patient with a mild condition was cured and discharged.
”刘本德说。
"said Liu Bender.
他强调，在江夏区第一人民医院，血浆治疗不是临床试验，在面对严重的感染，比如脓毒血症时，就有回输新鲜血浆的治疗方法。
He stressed that plasma therapy was not a clinical trial at the First People's Hospital in Jiangxia District and that treatment for serious infections, such as sepsis, was available for the return of fresh plasma.
国家卫健委发布的《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案》第四版中也已经正式提出，对重型、危重型病人治疗措施“可采用恢复期血浆治疗”。
The 4th edition of the "Diagnosis and Treatment of Pneumonia for New Coronavirus Infection," published by the National Health Commission, has been formally presented as a "convalescent plasma treatment" for heavy and critical patients.
江夏区第一人民医院。
Jiangxia District First People's Hospital.
（南方周末记者 崔慧莹/图）这是一种历史悠久的疗法。
(Southern Weekend reporter Cui Huiying / Picture) This is a kind of treatment with a long history.
早在十九世纪末就被发现对于治疗白喉和破伤风有效，在二十世纪上半叶被广泛用于治疗各种疾病，如麻疹、腮腺炎、肺炎等。
They were found to be effective against diphtheria and tetanus in the late nineteenth century and were widely used in the first half of the twentieth century to treat diseases such as measles, mumps and pneumonia.
直到抗生素、抗病毒药物和疫苗的发展和普及，血浆治疗逐渐退出了历史舞台。
Until the development and spread of antibiotics, antiviral drugs, and vaccines, plasma therapy was phased out of history.
在抗击其他传染病如SARS、H1N1、H5N1乃至埃博拉病毒的过程中，这一方法都被重启。
This approach has been revived in the fight against other infectious diseases such as SARS, H1N1, H5N1 and even Ebola.
上海市公共卫生临床中心党委书记、国家卫健委专家组成员卢洪洲告诉南方周末记者，上海首例新冠肺炎康复者的血浆治疗临床研究于2月17日展开。
The first clinical study of plasma treatment in Shanghai's newly recovered cases of pneumonia started on February 17, Party secretary of the Shanghai Public Health Clinical Centre and member of the National Fitness and Wellness Commission expert group, Lu Hongzhou, told Southern Weekend.
山西省已有4名康复者成功捐献血浆。
Four convalescent patients in Shanxi Province have successfully donated plasma.
山西医科大学第一医院呼吸科医生张新日此前接受媒体采访时表示，一名新冠肺炎危重患者在输入恢复期血浆后，肺部病灶明显好转。
Zhang Xinzhi, a respiratory doctor at Shanxi Medical University No.1 Hospital, told reporters that a critically ill patient with pneumonia had seen a significant improvement in lung lesions after he was fed convalescent plasma.
江苏徐州、广东清远各地也都已有成功献血案例。
Jiangsu Xuzhou and Guangdong Qingyuan have also been successful blood donation cases.
不过，疗效是否归功于这一古老疗法，并不好说。
It is not clear, however, whether this ancient cure is to blame for the effect.
2016年发表在《新英格兰医学杂志》的一项研究发现，接受500毫升恢复期血浆治疗，并未改善埃博拉病毒感染患者的生存率，这可能因为血浆抗体滴度较低，而高滴度抗体的血浆治疗仍有待研究。
A study published in the New England Journal of Medicine in 2016 found that 500 ml of convalescent plasma treatment did not improve the survival rate of Ebola virus infections, possibly because plasma antibody titers were low, and plasma treatment with high titration antibodies remained to be studied.
2019年发表在《柳叶刀——呼吸病学》的一项临床研究显示，在治疗重症流感时，相比非免疫血浆，高滴度抗流感免疫血浆并无显著获益。
A clinical study published in The Lancet-Respiratory Medicine in 2019 showed no significant benefit in the treatment of severe influenza compared to non-immune plasma.
2合适的时机、合适的病人、合适的血浆作为一线医生，刘本德很清楚，一个人的血浆对另外一个人体来说是异种蛋白，会有排斥反应。
When the right time, the right patient, the right blood plasma as a front-line doctor, Liu Bender is well aware that one person's plasma is another person's heterologous protein, which has a repulsive effect.
他看到有不少危重患者家属求助，在互联网上寻找相同血型的治愈者捐献血浆，但大多难有收获。
He has seen families of critically ill patients turn to the Internet for help in donating plasma from patients seeking the same blood group, but mostly with difficulty.
从临床治疗角度看，合适的时机、合适的病人、合适的血浆，缺一不可。
From a clinical point of view, the right time, the right patient, the right plasma, is indispensable.
首先，捐献血浆是“有门槛”的。
First, donating plasma is "threshold."
新型冠状病毒的确诊患者要遵从一般的献血条件——年龄在18-55周岁（适度放宽至60岁），女性体重在45公斤以上，男性体重在50公斤以上，没有高血压、糖尿病、心脑血管病等慢性病；患者治愈后，还要休息1至2周以上，身体状况较好，没有其他不适等。
Patients diagnosed with the new coronavirus are subject to the usual conditions for blood donation - aged 18-55 (moderately relaxed to 60), women weighing more than 45 kg and men weighing more than 50 kg, with no chronic diseases such as hypertension, diabetes or cardiovascular disease.
血浆中的抗体，浓度越高越好，但每个捐献个体之间的差异较大。
The higher the concentration of antibodies in plasma, the better, but the greater the difference between individual donors.
“一般情况下，患者在患病两个礼拜后抗体密度就会很高了。
"Normally, two weeks after the illness, the antibody density is very high.
”卢洪洲告诉南方周末记者。
Lu told Southern Weekend reporter.
据《北京青年报》报道，江夏区第一人民医院首批献血的医护人员康复者中，血量标准为女性300毫升，男性400毫升，但有两位男同事都选择捐献了550毫升。
According to the Beijing Youth Daily, among the first survivors of blood donation from the First People's Hospital in Jiangxia, the blood standard was 300 ml for women and 400 ml for men, but two men chose to donate 550 ml.
刚刚献完的血浆不能直接使用，需要被送往中国生物武汉生物制品研究所和中科院武汉病毒所，经过严格的血液生物安全性检测、病毒灭活和抗病毒活性检测等，再制备成“新冠特免血浆”，用于临床治疗。
The newly-presented plasma cannot be used directly and needs to be sent to Wuhan Biology Research Institute of China and Wuhan Institute of Chinese Academy of Sciences for clinical treatment through rigorous blood biosecurity testing, virus inactivation and antiviral activity testing.
至此，这一流程原来标准的时间是7天左右，非常时期能不能提前，“取决于上述单位的工作进度。
At this point, the original standard time of the process is about 7 days, the extraordinary period can be advanced, "depending on the progress of the work of the above-mentioned units.
”刘本德解释。
"Liu Bender explained.
对于患者而言，一次输注约为200毫升，一位患者捐献的血浆可供1-2位患者使用。
For patients, the infusion was about 200 ml at a time, with one patient donating plasma for 1-2 patients.
“一个病人只接受一个血浆捐献者的血浆，也是一项基本原则，因为患者接受的异种蛋白越少，风险就越低。
"It is also a basic principle that a patient receives only one plasma donor's plasma, because the fewer heterologous proteins a patient receives, the lower the risk.
”刘本德说。
"said Liu Bender.
根据目前的临床经验，血液疗法的对象以重症病人为主，上海市公共卫生临床中心提供的《新型冠状病毒感染者恢复期血浆治疗重症新型冠状病毒感染患者的临床研究（方案书）》显示，这是一项单臂、单中心研究，只有一个试验点，没有对照组。
According to the current clinical experience, the main target of blood therapy is severe patients. The clinical study on plasma treatment of patients with severe coronavirus infection in convalescent phase of patients with new coronary virus infection provided by the Shanghai Public Health Clinical Center shows that this is a single-arm, single-center study with only one trial site and no control group.
目前，哪些患者在哪些情况下适用这一疗法，需要医生临床诊断来判断，没有统一指标。
At present, there is no uniform indicator of which patients and under which circumstances the treatment will be applied, depending on the clinician's diagnosis.
上述上海方案中纳入临床试验患者的标准，与当前诊疗方案中对重型、危重型病人的判定标准相同。
The Shanghai protocol includes standards for patients in clinical trials, which are the same as those used in current diagnostic and treatment protocols for patients with severe and critical conditions.
刘本德提醒，对于重症患者，最佳时期是在炎症风暴来临之前。
For patients with severe illness, Liu warns, the best time is before an inflammatory storm comes.
炎症风暴是细胞因子对外界的病毒和感染的过度反应，无分敌我，造成了对自身的伤害。
Inflammatory storms are an overreaction of cytokines to viruses and infections outside the home, causing damage to themselves.
“如果炎症风暴已经来了，再用血浆会加重病情。
"If an inflammatory storm has come, reusing the plasma can make it worse.
比如患者出现严重并发症、多脏器的衰竭。
For example, patients with serious complications, multi-organ failure.
”刘本德解释。
"Liu Bender explained.
临床医生要随时观察患者的指标，才能决定哪些患者适宜使用血浆疗法，什么时候输入血浆是安全的。
Clinicians need to keep an eye on patient indicators to determine which patients are eligible for plasma therapy and when it is safe to enter them.
3为寻找特异性抗体和疫苗开发打基础在武汉，康复者血浆捐献点共有3个。
3 In order to find specific antibodies and vaccine development foundation in Wuhan, the rehabilitation of plasma donation points in a total of three.
截至2月16日下午，武汉血液中心、人民医院爱心献血屋和金银潭医院捐献点，已有36名康复者献血成功（包括公开招募前献血的二十余位医护工作者）。
As of the afternoon of February 16, 36 patients (including more than 20 medical workers who had donated blood before public recruitment) had donated blood to the Wuhan Blood Centre, the Loving Blood Donation House of the People's Hospital and the Donation Point of the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
人民医院爱心献血屋。
People's Hospital Loving Blood Donation House.
（南方周末记者 崔慧莹/图）献血需要带上医院的诊断书、出院小结和身份证，一位25岁的治愈者告诉南方周末记者，他2月13日出院，要休息到26日后，才能献血。
A 25-year-old healer told Southern Weekend reporter that he was discharged on February 13 and had to rest until 26 days before donating blood.
“还有20位符合条件捐献者已经预约，不断有热心者咨询。
"There are also 20 eligible donors who have made appointments and are constantly being consulted.
”国药集团中国生物技术股份有限公司相关工作人员告诉南方周末记者，他们负责人民医院、金银潭医院2个献血点。
Officials at China Biotech Corp. told Southern Weekend that they were responsible for two blood donation sites at the People's Hospital and the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
武汉血液中心一位工作人员则表示，已有70位志愿者的信息登记在册，在评估筛选后，他们才会被通知捐献日期。
A Wuhan blood center official said the information of 70 volunteers had been registered and they would not be notified of the date of donation until after the screening.
武汉共计3460位患者治愈出院，目前来预约献血的约3%。
Wuhan, a total of 3,460 patients cured, now come to make an appointment for blood donation about 3%.
“有些病人出院后仍有心慌、胸闷的感觉，或惊魂未定，不愿意出来献血，或因为小区封闭交通不便。
"Some patients are still feeling nervous, chest tightness, or scared, unwilling to come out to donate blood, or because the neighborhood is closed and inaccessible.
”刘本德分析了目前献血者较少的原因。
"Liu analyzed the reasons for the low number of blood donors.
治愈者血浆确实珍贵，但捐献者主观自愿，身体条件适宜，也很重要。
The plasma of the healer is truly precious, but it is also important that the donor be willing and physically fit.
针对武汉当下严格的出行管制措施，献血处也做了相应的安排。
Wuhan for the current strict travel control measures, blood donation places have made the corresponding arrangements.
武汉血液中心一位工作人员表示，如果献血志愿者有条件自行驾车前往，会为其协调办理小区通行证；若没有适合的交通工具，会安排接送 。
Wuhan blood center, a staff member said that if volunteers can drive their own conditions, it will be coordinated for the district pass; if no suitable means of transport, will be arranged.
不过，交通并非最大的难题。
However, transportation is not the biggest problem.
当下最大的限制在于仪器和人力，每次血液采集需30分钟左右，目前一天最多可安排十个人捐献。
The biggest constraint at the moment is equipment and manpower, which can take up to 30 minutes per blood collection, with a maximum of 10 people donating each day.
除湖北外，全国其他各省份虽尚没有大规模公开招募治愈者献血，但仍有患者在听闻消息后主动报名。
Except for Hubei province, although there is no large-scale open recruitment of cured blood donation, but patients after hearing the news on their own initiative.
2月14日, 上海市公共卫生临床中心28位新型冠状病毒感染肺炎患者康复出院，其中有6名愿意捐献血浆。
On February 14, 28 patients with new coronavirus-infected pneumonia were discharged from the Shanghai Public Health Clinic. Six of them were willing to donate plasma.
从抢购双黄连，到法匹拉韦、磷酸氯喹、瑞德西韦等药物被发现具有抗新型冠状病毒活性，再到血浆疗法呼吁治愈者献血，人们不愿放过治愈新冠肺炎的点点微光。
From snapping up Shuanghuanglian, to drugs such as Fabiravee, chloroquine phosphate, Radesivette, and others have been found to be resistant to the new coronavirus, to plasma therapy calling for blood donation by the cured, people are reluctant to let go of the glimmer of a new crown pneumonia.
新冠病毒尤为狡猾。
The new crown virus is especially crafty.
刘本德语气焦灼，连珠炮般列举：第一，它具有艾滋病毒的特点，可攻击人体的淋巴系统；第二，具备流感病毒的特点，传播性很快很强；第三，它具备消化道病毒的特点，钟南山院士团队在粪便中检出活菌；更可怕的是，有些健康带菌者没有发病，像乙肝病毒一样很隐蔽，无症状，但也是一个传染源。
First, it has the characteristics of an HIV virus and can attack the lymphatic system of the human body. Secondly, it has the characteristics of an influenza virus and spreads very quickly. Thirdly, it has the characteristics of a digestive tract virus.
截至2月17日下午，已有150个与新冠肺炎相关的临床试验在中国临床试验注册中心注册，中国医学科学院输血研究所申请的“采集恢复期血浆治疗重症新型冠状病毒肺炎(COVID-19)患者的研究”也在其中，有3家医院参与，对其疗效仍在探索阶段。
As of the afternoon of February 17, 150 clinical trials related to pneumonia had been registered with the China Clinical Trials Registration Center, and the "Study on Plasma Collection for Treatment of Patients with Severe New Coronavirus Pneumonia (COVID-19)," requested by the Blood Transfusion Institute of the Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, was also included, involving three hospitals whose efficacy is still being explored.
“理论上讲，血浆里有抗体，但每个人血液里有多少抗体还不一样，人类机体的免疫系统差别也很大，目前仅个别案例取得初步疗效，想证明效果，还需要更多证据。
"In theory, there are antibodies in the plasma, but the number of antibodies in each person's blood is not the same, and the immune systems of the human body are very different.
”广州支援武汉协和医院医疗队队长、广州医科大学附属第一医院副院长张挪富告诉南方周末记者。
Zhang Nofu, head of Guangzhou Medical Team supporting Wuhan Heping Hospital and vice-dean of Guangzhou Medical University's First Affiliated Hospital, told Southern Weekend reporter.
在2013年上映的韩国电影《流感》中，医生金仁海把含有病毒抗体的血液注入女儿美日的身体里，最终遏制了猪流感病毒侵袭。
In the South Korean film Influenza, released in 2013, doctor Kim Il Hai injected blood containing viral antibodies into her daughter's body, eventually containing the virus.
而在现实中，恐难出现电影桥段中的“救世主”。
But in reality, it is difficult to appear in the film bridge segment of the "savior."
无论是新药临床试验，还是疫苗研发，仍需等待时间。
Waiting time is still required for clinical trials of new drugs and vaccine development.
戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
Click the image below to continue reading the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
血浆治疗法：疗效待定，可为寻找抗体和疫苗打基础。
Plasma therapy: Therapeutic effects to be determined, for the search for antibodies and vaccines laid the foundation.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "血浆治疗法：疗效待定，可为寻找抗体和疫苗打基础";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Plasma therapy: TBD, basic & quot;; & quot; for antibodies and vaccines.
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
