重症武汉，重新呼吸。
In severe Wuhan, breathe again.
南方周末记者。
Southern Weekend Journalist.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲2020年2月19日，在武汉市泰康同济医院，军队医护人员互相整理防护服。
On February 19, 2020, in Wuhan Taikang Tongji Hospital, military medical personnel to each other to arrange protective clothing.
（新华社/图）全文共9028字，阅读大约需要20分钟。
The full text is 9028 words and takes about 20 minutes to read.
此次派出的县级医院医护人员不在少数，远至宁夏西海固。
This dispatched county-level hospital medical personnel are not a few, as far as Xichaigu Ningxia.
安徽、江苏等省更将指标下沉至乡镇和社区卫生院。
Anhui, Jiangsu and other provinces will also sink indicators to the township and community health centres.
SARS时，王洵还是医科生，母亲在发热门诊和隔离病房工作。
When SARS occurred, Wang Xun was a medical student and her mother worked in the fever clinic and isolation ward.
王洵觉得呼吸科医生很伟大，当她决定选呼吸科时，母亲说，要是不幸再有“非典”，“就靠你们这一代了。
Wang Xun thinks the respiratory doctor is great. When she decides to choose the department of respiration, her mother says that if there is another SARS unfortunately, it is up to your generation
”“老鲁你一定活得下来！一定活得下来！只要你能吃得下，就能熬过去！”黄晓波拔高了音量，他是特意说给身边一同查房的医生护士们听的。
"Old Lu you certainly can live! As long as you can eat, you can get through it!" Huang Xiaobo raised the volume, saying specially to the doctors and nurses with whom he consulted the room.
本文由南方周末独家授权腾讯平台，任何第三方未经授权不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 李玉楼 高伊琛 发自广州南方周末特派记者 杨楠 发自武汉南方周末实习生 郑伊灵 何沛云责任编辑 | 吴筱羽同一张四号床，护士朱恋抢回过许多生，也送别过许多死。
This article by Southern Weekend exclusive authorization Tencent platform, any third party unauthorized reprint of text and # 124; Southern Weekend reporter Li Yu-lou Gaoichen from Guangzhou Southern Weekend reporter Yang Nan from Wuhan Southern Weekend Intern Cheng Eilin He Peiyun.
ICU送来一个危重新冠肺炎患者前，朱恋备好了无创呼吸机和有创呼吸机插管。
Zhu was provided with a non-invasive ventilator and invasive ventilator cannula before the ICU sent a critically ill patient with pneumonia.
送到这里来的病人，需要高流量的呼吸治疗，才可能抢回一条命。
Patients brought in here need high-flow breathing therapy to be able to recover their lives.
还备好了肌松药和镇静药，一旦无创呼吸不行，需要插管，得注射镇静、镇痛药，让受重创的肺部进入深度安静。
Muscle relaxants and sedatives are also available, and once noninvasive breathing is not possible, intubation, sedation and analgesics are required to bring the damaged lungs into deep silence.
这类药会影响病人的心率和血压，朱恋又拿出了维持血压的药。
They can affect a patient's heart rate and blood pressure, and Zhu loves them and takes out a blood pressure medication.
转院来的是位老人。
An old man was transferred to the hospital.
原医院医生跪在救护床上给他做心肺复苏，朱恋接上一个呼吸囊，做人工呼吸的加压培养。
The former hospital doctor knelt on the ambulatory bed to do cardiopulmonary resuscitation, Zhu Ling attached to a breathing sac, artificial respiration pressure culture.
推入四号床，医生当即紧急插管——这是刚送来的抢救中能给到的最高呼吸支持了。
Pushing into bed No. 4, the doctor had an emergency intubation - the highest breathing support he could get from the rescue just delivered.
在武汉市金银潭医院ICU，床位号越靠前，病情越重——紧急送来的重症总是被推进第一间病房。
In the ICU of Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, the more advanced the bed number, the more serious the condition - emergency cases are always pushed into the first ward.
朱恋和两位同事接力做心肺复苏，一人三分钟，交替进行。
Zhu and two colleagues relay to do cardiopulmonary resuscitation, one person for three minutes, alternating.
心电图依然呈现在30-40，一旦停止按压，立刻降至0。
The ECG was still present at 30-40 and dropped to 0 as soon as the compression had stopped.
按压了半小时，心率仍然无法自主恢复，医生宣告抢救失败。
After half an hour of pressure, the heart rate still could not recover autonomously.
死亡并不陌生，但朱恋很少面对这样直接的抢救无效，在中南大学湘雅医院重症ICU时，她和同事们往往能为病人争取一点治疗时间。
Death is no stranger, but Zhu rarely faces such a direct rescue failure, in the Central South University Xiangya Hospital ICU, she and her colleagues often can buy patients a little time for treatment.
直到2020年1月底，她来到金银潭医院南五楼ICU病房。
Until the end of January 2020, she went to ICU ward on the fifth floor of Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
朱恋是湖南首批医疗队五名护士之一。
Zhu is one of five nurses in Hunan first medical team.
四号床上更多的是活过来。
Number four is more alive than alive.
这里躺过一位武汉第四医院外科医生，他在门诊接诊时感染上新冠肺炎。
Here lies a Wuhan fourth hospital surgeon, he was admitted to the clinic when infected with the new crown pneumonia.
同事将他推到四号床，朱恋给他戴上氧气面罩，加大氧流。
His co-workers pushed him to bed No. 4, and Zhu loves to put an oxygen mask on him and increase the oxygen flow.
15分钟后，血氧指数从40回升到80，虽然仍低于正常指标的90，但这几乎已经意味着抢救成功。
Fifteen minutes later, the oxygenation index recovered from 40 to 80, still below the normal figure of 90, but that almost meant success.
生与死、告别与重生每天在四号床上交替发生，在这座千万人口大城里交替发生，武汉自己也成了一个肺部遭受重创的患者，亟需被抢救。
Life and death, farewell and rebirth occur alternately on the 4th bed every day, alternating in a city of tens of millions of people, and Wuhan itself has become a badly-hit lung patient in urgent need of rescue.
以武汉为中心，病毒感染导致湖北全省受创，紧急向外呼救。
Wuhan as the center, Hubei province caused by a virus infection, emergency external call for help.
据国务院联防联控机制新闻发布会公布的数据，截至2020年2月17日，全国已派出3.2万余名医务人员支持湖北武汉，当中1.1万人是重症专业的医务人员，这个数据接近全国重症医务人员资源的10%。
As of February 17, 2020, more than 32,000 medical personnel had been sent to support Wuhan, of whom 11,000 were medical personnel specializing in severe diseases, a figure close to 10 per cent of the country's critical medical personnel, according to figures released at the press conference of the Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism of the State Council.
长江日报报道则显示，支援武汉的有208支医疗队、25972名医务人员。
The Changjiang Daily reports that 208 medical teams and 25,972 medical personnel supported Wuhan.
这一医疗援助规模已远超2008年造成37万余人受伤的“5·12大地震”。
The scale of this medical aid has far exceeded the magnitude of the May 12 earthquake that injured more than 370,000 people in 2008.
当下的湖北正在进行两场硬仗。
There are two hard battles going on in Hubei.
一场是降低病死率的重症之役，战场在金银潭等重症定点医院；另一场是降低感染率的“应收尽收”，战场遍布武汉十余个方舱医院、社区医院、社区和广袤的湖北县乡。
One is a serious battle to reduce the fatality rate, the battlefield is in critical hospitals such as gold and silver pools, and the other is the "receivable collection" to reduce infection rates in Wuhan, with more than a dozen cabin hospitals, community hospitals, communities, and Hubei counties and townships.
一场史无前例的异地医疗支援悄然启动。
An unprecedented level of off-site medical support was quietly launched.
为了抢救武汉和湖北，三万多名空投而来的医务人员，甚至动员至乡镇卫生院层级。
In order to rescue Wuhan and Hubei, more than 30,000 airdropped medical personnel, even mobilized to the township hospital level.
“保卫大武汉。
"To defend Wuhan.
”82年后，人们再次想起抗日战争时的这句呐喊。
Eighty-two years later, the cry of the War of Resistance against Japan comes back to mind.
2020年2月9日，武汉江汉方舱医院，云南援助湖北医疗队正在交班。
February 9, 2020, Wuhan Jianghan Fang cabin hospital, Yunnan assistance to Hubei medical team is in the shift.
（南方都市报记者 钟锐钧/图）1要是不幸再有“非典”“就靠你们这一代了”十七年前的毒我还记忆犹新今天是昨天的翻版而毒却不是昨天的毒它的狡猾是人惯出来的强传染也是人溺爱的果——《武汉方舱医院一个护士的诗》​作者：弱水吟，甘肃一名心理科护士长呼吸科医生王洵的硕博同学几乎在武汉聚齐了。
I still remember the poison of 17 years ago. Today is a copy of yesterday but not yesterday's poison. Its cunning is a familiar strong infection and the result of human dotage.
她本硕毕业于四川大学华西医学院，博士毕业于复旦大学医学院，SARS之后那年，2004年，王洵选择攻读呼吸科专业研究生。
She graduated from Huaxi Medical School of Sichuan University. She graduated from Fudan University Medical School. In 2004, after SARS, Wang Xun chose to study for a graduate student in respiration.
2019年末，武汉传出不明原因肺炎的新闻，这位呼吸科医生一直密切关注新病毒相关的文献，同学群里的讨论也日渐频繁。
At the end of 2019, news of unexplained pneumonia was coming out of Wuhan. The ventilator had been keeping a close eye on the literature on the new virus, and discussions were becoming more frequent among the class.
疫情明朗且披露的情况一日比一日严峻之后，“去武汉”成了呼吸科医生自然而然的选择——当然，也许并不存在选择。
After the outbreak became clear and revelations grew more severe, "going to Wuhan" became a natural choice for the respiratory doctors - and, of course, there may be no choice.
2020年1月25日，大年初一，王洵作为江苏援鄂医疗队首批成员到达武汉。
On January 25, 2020, Wang Xun arrived in Wuhan as the first member of Jiangsu Hubei Medical Team.
尽管对病毒本身的凶险已有充分认知，但武汉的严峻形势还是超出了王洵的预料。
Although the danger of the virus itself has been fully recognized, but Wuhan's grim situation or beyond Wang Xun's expectations.
王洵支援的是江夏区第一人民医院，一家三级乙等医院。
Wang Xun supports Jiangxia First People's Hospital, a third-level hospital.
抵达时，该院呼吸科医生极缺，原本只能承担一个病区的江苏医疗队只好分散至五个病区，培训其他科室的医护人员熟悉呼吸科的诊疗方法。
At the time of arrival, the hospital's ventilator was in short supply, and Jiangsu's medical team, which could only take care of one area, had to be dispersed among the five wards to train the medical staff of other departments in the methods of respiratory diagnosis and treatment.
第一周，王洵每天要对60个病人挨个查房，从早上八点到中午一点。
During the first week, Wang Xun examines 60 patients one by one every day, from 8 a.m. to 1 noon.
她的护士同事，每个班平均走16000步，换150瓶液，大约是日常工作量的两倍。
Her nurse colleagues walked an average of 16,000 steps per class, exchanging 150 bottles of fluid, about twice the daily workload.
这不算什么艰巨的工作。
This is no hard work.
更复杂的是，她要协同疾控专家和建筑工人对硬件防护进行升级，重新设计院内防疫流程。
More complicated, she will have to work with disease control experts and construction workers to upgrade hardware protection and redesign hospital immunization procedures.
升级防护是所有援鄂医疗队进驻后的首要任务，目的是为医护人员提供安全的工作环境。
Upgrade protection is a top priority for all medical support teams after their arrival, in order to provide a safe working environment for medical staff.
王洵安排给消杀班护士的任务再琐碎不过：每四小时配置新鲜的消毒液，灌满二十几个病区门口的手消壶，确保垃圾袋装至2/3时打结，盯着清洁工每六个小时拖一次地，给病人发消毒小毛巾，叮嘱他们随手关门，盯着泡护目镜的消毒液水位线。
WangXun arranges for the erasure class nurse's task no more trivial: every four hours is equipped with fresh disinfectant, fills the hand eraser at the door of 20 or so sick areas, makes sure the garbage bag is tied up to 2 / 3, stares at the cleaners every six hours, gives patients sterile towels, and tells them to close the door behind them and stare at the antiseptic line of the goggles.
这些琐碎的任务在王洵看来十分重要。
These trivial tasks are very important to Wang Xun.
用她的话说：“毕竟，我们的任务不是救一个或者几个重病人，而是救一座城。
"After all, our job is not to save one or more seriously ill people, but to save a city," she said.
”人人都知道，针对此次新型冠状病毒需要高级别防护，但级别多高，即便是湖北当地和前来支援的大多数医护人员，都并不熟悉。
Everyone knows that the new coronavirus requires a high level of protection, but no matter how high it is, even Hubei province and most of the medical staff who came to support it are not familiar with it.
44岁的县城医生张华雄1.65米的个子，身材较胖，独自穿防护服时弯腰都很辛苦。
Zhang Hua-hsiung, a 44-year-old county doctor, is a chubby man with a 1.65-meter body.
他形容自己是个小老头了，又用了两个“笨拙”来形容自己穿上防护服。
He described himself as a little old man, and used two "clumsy" terms to describe wearing protective clothing.
“我对这种级别的防护是零基础，需要把穿脱流程一步一步背下来，防护服的塑胶味令呼吸不通畅，戴上护目镜也看不太清楚，就感觉很笨拙，下来都是一身汗。
"My protection against this level is zero-based. I need to recite it step by step, the plastic taste of the protective clothing makes it difficult to breathe, I can't see it clearly with goggles on, and I feel clumsy and sweaty.
”张华雄来自广东省梅州市丰顺县人民医院，那是一家二甲医院，当地没有确诊病例。
Zhang Huaxiong is from Fengshun County People's Hospital in Meizhou, Guangdong Province, a two-A hospital where there are no confirmed cases.
他此前曾报名作为当地疫情暴发的预备人员，农历正月十五晚上，突然被通知支援湖北。
He had been registered as a local outbreak of the preparatory personnel, the fifteenth night of the first month of the lunar calendar, was suddenly notified to support Hubei.
17年前SARS，张华雄已经是医生，但没有上前线，这次他坦言“也没想到会从县医院派医生”。
On SARS 17 years ago, Zhang Huaxiong, a doctor but not on the front line, admitted he "didn't expect a doctor from the county hospital either."
直到抵达武汉第二天，他才知道自己被分配到武汉的东西湖区方舱医院——此前他还以为是去支援鄂州。
It was not until the day after his arrival that he learned that he had been assigned to the Fang Cao Hospital in Wuhan, which he had thought was to support Huizhou.
形势如此紧急，大多数外地援鄂医疗队队员的旅程都充满未知。
The urgency of the situation is such that most foreign medical team members' journeys are full of uncertainty.
许多人直到坐上飞机都不知道要去哪家医院，接管什么样的病区，甚至不知道要支援哪座城市，以至于郑州市中心医院轻信了网传对口方案，在出征横幅上写着“随州随州，我是郑州”——但最终去了武汉。
Many people did not know which hospital to go to, which area to take over, or even which city to support until they got on the plane, so that Zhengzhou Central Hospital trusted its online counterpart and wrote "Suizhou Suizhou, I'm Zhengzhou" on the banner - but ended up in Wuhan.
通过官方公布数据可知，80%的外地支援医务人员，都被派往了武汉——疫情中心。
According to official statistics, 80 percent of the medical personnel in the field have been sent to Wuhan, the epicentre of the epidemic.
尤其自2月3日启动方舱医院建设之后，武汉对医护人员的需求量骤增。
Especially since February 3 to start the construction of the square cabin hospital, Wuhan demand for medical personnel increased sharply.
截至2月19日，武汉已投入运营12个方舱医院，计划启用床位超过两万张。
As of February 19, Wuhan had put into operation 12 square-cabin hospitals, with plans to open more than 20,000 beds.
各区还在新改扩建大小型10座方舱医院，共计新增约11465个床位，届时方舱医院总床位数将接近19000张。
The districts are also in the process of renovating and expanding 10 cabin hospitals, with a total of approximately 11,465 beds, which will bring the total number of beds in the Fangcao Hospital to close to 19,000.
按照国家紧急医学救援队队长刘中民的测算，方舱医院每1000张床位至少需要200名医生和200名护士。
The hospital needs at least 200 doctors and 200 nurses for every 1,000 beds, according to Liu Zhongmin, the head of the national emergency medical rescue team.
如此估算，则两万张床位就需要近8000名医护人员。
That would leave 20,000 beds for nearly 8,000 health-care workers.
湖北需要的医护人员缺口巨大，此次派出的医疗队员中，像张华雄这样的县级医院医护人员不在少数，豆瓣一个相关主题帖子下，跟帖显示，派出医护人员的县级医院遍布全国各地，远至宁夏西海固。
Hubei needs a huge shortage of medical personnel, such as Zhang Huaxiong sent out of the hospital medical staff at the county level, such as many as Zhang Huaxiong, a related topic posts, follow-up, the hospital sent medical personnel throughout the country, as far as Xishigu Ningxia.
因而，安徽、江苏等省在派遣援鄂医疗队的护士时，已经将指标下沉至乡镇和社区卫生院。
Thus, when sending nurses from medical teams in Hubei province, Anhui and Jiangsu provinces have lowered their targets to the villages and community health centers.
陈娜（化名）就是一名来自合肥某镇卫生院的护士，方舱医院内每天十小时的工作强度，刷新了她的从业经历。
Chen Na (alias) is a nurse from a township hospital in Hefei, Fang cabin hospital daily work intensity, refreshed her professional experience.
“第一天进舱就懵了，在自己的病区里转晕了两次。
"On day one, she was stunned and fainted twice in her area.
”陈娜告诉南方周末记者，医护人员和患者对这类医院都很陌生，加之穿着闷热的防护服，脑子会宕机。
Chen told Southern Weekend she told Southern Weekend that doctors, nurses and patients were unfamiliar with such hospitals and that their brains could go down in sultry suits.
几天后，她慢慢摸索出穿着防护服呼吸的技巧：呼吸要短促，走路匀速缓慢，说话不带语气、避免深呼吸。
A few days later, she slowly developed the technique of breathing in protective clothing: shortness of breath, slow walking, lack of tone and avoidance of deep breathing.
网络上热传的方舱广场舞就是从陈娜所在的病区兴起的。
Hot on the network square square dance is from Chenna's area of the rise.
方舱病人的症状较轻，但普遍焦虑，“我刚进舱的时候也很焦虑，总担心自己被感染。
The cabin patient's symptoms were mild, but there was widespread anxiety. "I was anxious when I first came in, and I was always worried about getting infected.
”陈娜说，带着病人做操的确有助于缓解焦虑，早晚各一次，目前看效果不错。
Taking a patient for exercise can help ease anxiety, says Ms. Chen, sooner or later, and so far looks good.
随着一批又一批外地医务人员增援到位，武汉在慢慢好起来吗？王洵的答案是，“我只能判断我的工作逐步走上正轨”。
Is Wuhan slowly getting better with the arrival of new batch after batch of medical personnel? Wang Xun's answer is, "I can only judge that my work is on track."
王洵每天仍然只有五个小时睡眠，而她的同事还在不断增赴湖北。
WangXun is still only sleeping five hours a day, and her colleagues are constantly on their way to Hubei.
至于齐聚武汉的同门，只能在群里“云聚会”，聚会的主题是：你今天什么病人，用了什么疗法，效果如何。
As for the same door gathered in Wuhan, can only be "cloud party" in the group, the theme of the party is: What patients do you use today, what treatment, how effective.
这让王洵想起上学时的日子。
This reminds Wang Xun of the days when he was at school.
SARS那年她大三，母亲是江南大学校医，在发热门诊和隔离病房工作。
She was a junior on SARS, and her mother was a college doctor at Jiangnan University, working in a fever clinic and isolation ward.
还是医科生的王洵觉得呼吸科医生很伟大，因此决定选呼吸科。
Wang Xun, a medical student, thinks the ventilator is great and decides to take the department of respiration.
而母亲说，要是不幸再有“非典”（SARS），“就靠你们这一代了”。
And mother said, if unfortunately again "SARS" (SARS), "depends on your generation."
2020年2月10日，武汉汉口医院，广东医疗队队员躺在办公椅上休息。
February 10, 2020, Wuhan Hankou Hospital, Guangdong medical team members lying on the office chair rest.
（南方都市报记者 钟锐钧/图）2重建一间崩溃的医院要狠得下心四川队本以为自己来了武汉就进病房，可摆在眼前的第一个任务却是：如何将红会医院改造成一家合格的传染病收治医院。
(Southern Metropolis Daily reporter Zhong Jiajun / picture) rebuild a broken hospital Sichuan team thought he had come to Wuhan on the ward, but the first task before us is: how to transform the Red Cross Hospital into a qualified hospital for infectious diseases.
1月26日，大年初二，三辆大巴车停在武汉红十字会医院住院部门口，四川第一批援鄂医疗队的138名成员下车。
January 26, New Year's Day, three buses parked in front of the hospital in Wuhan Red Cross Hospital, Sichuan the first medical team in Hubei 138 members get out of the car.
那是进出医院的必经之路，路上不仅有医生、患者，还有垃圾车和殡仪馆的车。
It was the only way to get in and out of the hospital, not only doctors and patients, but also garbage trucks and funeral homes.
清洁通道和污染通道都是那一条——而垃圾是新冠肺炎重要的传染源。
Cleaning corridors and polluted passages are the same - and garbage is an important source of infection for pneumonia.
距离住院部二十米左右，门诊挤满了病人，即使在凌晨两点，队伍都排到院外。
About 20 meters from the inpatient department, the clinic was full of patients, and even at 2 a. m. the lines were outside the hospital.
有人站在医院门口挂吊瓶，吊瓶就挂在树桠上。
There was a man hanging a bottle on a tree outside the hospital gate.
红会医院距离此次疫情主要源头之一的华南海鲜市场不到两公里，在1月22日被征用为新冠肺炎定点收治医院之一。
The hospital, less than two kilometers from South China's seafood market, one of the main sources of the outbreak, was requisitioned as one of the targeted hospitals for pneumonia on January 22.
作为一家二甲医院，红会医院的门诊只能容纳一天800的就诊数量，而就在那几天，这里门诊数量一天达2700，最多的一天，仅呼吸专科门诊，一个医生看了130个病人。
As a secondary hospital, the outpatient clinic of the Red Cross Hospital can only accommodate 800 visits per day, and on those days the number of outpatient consultations there reached 2,700 per day, the largest day ever, with only specialized respiratory clinics and a doctor visiting 130 patients.
住院部里，五百张病床已经全部收治了发热病人——几乎每个人都有家属陪伴，有时不止一个。
At the inpatient department, all 500 beds have been filled with febrile patients - almost everyone is accompanied by a family member, sometimes more than one.
发热病人并非全是新冠肺炎患者，却被并置在同一间病房，院内交叉感染风险极高。
Not all febrile patients with new crown pneumonia are co-located in the same ward and are at high risk of cross-infection.
由于确诊或疑似感染，医院当时已有六分之一的医护人员无法上班。
One in six hospital staff was already out of work at the time of diagnosis or suspected infection.
“糟糕”“沦陷”“不像个医院”，这是四川队领队黄晓波对眼前景象的形容。
"Bad" "like a hospital," this is Sichuan team leader Huang Xiaobo on the scene described.
他在电梯里遇到红会医院的医护人员，对方突然就哭出声说：“援军终于来了！”他还在电梯里面遇到家属，遇到一个劝一个：“你赶紧回去别待着了，你没病也要感染新冠。
In the elevator, he met the hospital staff of the Red Cross hospital, the other side suddenly cried out: "Help finally come!" He also met family members in the elevator, encountered a exhortation: "You hurry to stay away, you do not have to stay, you will not be sick to a new crown.
”“怎么还一天分三顿送饭，医院里全都有。
"" Three meals a day, all in the hospital.
”四川队本以为自己来了武汉就进病房，可摆在眼前的第一个任务却是：如何将红会医院改造成一家合格的传染病收治医院。
"The Sichuan team thought they had come to Wuhan and entered the ward, but the first task before us was how to transform the Red Cross Hospital into a qualified hospital for infectious diseases.
他们向区政府反映，江汉区区委书记问黄晓波，有什么解决方案。
They told the regional government that the district secretary asked Huang Xiaobo what the solution was.
黄建议停三天门诊，先切断所有患者来源，床位已经满员，再进人只会增加交叉感染。
Huang recommended a three-day outpatient visit, cutting off all sources of patients, full beds, and re-entry will only increase cross-infection.
黄晓波很坚持，暂时的停诊会让患者有意见，但“如果不停，这家医院就废了”。
Huang insisted that a temporary suspension would make the patient have a problem, but "if you don't stop, the hospital will be abandoned."
停诊三天，医院请离了所有家属，在门诊前设立隔离带，甄别疑似新冠病人和非新冠病人，设法协调病毒核酸检测试剂盒，将原有住院用品全部消毒。
After a three-day suspension, the hospital removed all family members, set up an isolation zone before the clinic, screened suspected new crown patients and non-crown patients, managed to coordinate viral nucleic acid test kits, and completely sterilized the original hospital supplies.
1月27日，江汉区领导现场办公，一天之内打通污染通道。
January 27, the Jianghan District leadership office site, a day to open the pollution channel.
城管工作人员封路，隔离红会医院后门的小区，将医院后门改为垃圾车和殡仪车专用通道。
City management staff sealed off the road, the Red Cross Hospital back to the community, the hospital back door into garbage truck and funeral car dedicated passage.
红会医院是U字型结构，门诊8层楼，住院部16层。
The Red Cross Hospital is a U-shaped structure with an 8-storey outpatient clinic and 16-storey inpatient department.
“这是个综合性医院，面积又小，让这样的医院做传染病医院，会浪费很多地方。
"It's a general hospital and the area is small, so it would be a waste of places to be an infectious hospital," he said.
”黄晓波下得了狠心，浪费得了病区，最大可能减少交叉感染。
Huang Xiaobo was cruel, wasted the sick area, and was able to minimize cross-infection.
五楼的一段被用作清洁区，六楼的一段被用来做缓冲区。
A section on the fifth floor was used as a cleaning area and a section on the sixth floor was used as a buffer zone.
U型走廊被隔离成两段，一段是穿好防护服走入的污染区，一段是脱下防护服进入的清洁区——这至少浪费了30张床位。
The U-shaped corridor is divided into two sections, one for contaminated areas covered in protective clothing and one for cleaning areas where protective clothing is removed - a waste of at least 30 beds.
一楼、二楼被用来放置物资，同时给非医护人员穿脱隔离衣，“又是浪费空间”。
The first floor and the second floor were used to store supplies, while non-paramedics were stripped of their protective clothing, "another waste of space."
重症病房改造同样是难题。
Reshaping the intensive care unit is also a challenge.
原有的重症病房一间房六张床，每边三张，医护人员站中间。
The original intensive care unit consists of six beds, three on each side, and the middle of the staff station.
清醒的重症患者，可能因为呼吸不畅的痛苦反复摘下氧气面罩，医护人员就长时间暴露在飞沫传播的中心。
Patients with severe sobriety may repeatedly remove their oxygen masks due to shortness of breath, exposing them to droplets for long periods of time.
黄晓波和四川队的院感专家放弃了原有的重症病房，将呼吸科带窗的病房改造成重症病房，尽量让医护人员靠近通风处。
Huang Xiaobo and Sichuan's hospital specialists abandoned the former intensive care unit and transformed the respiratory ward into a intensive care unit, bringing medical staff as close as possible to the ventilation area.
所有的三人间和四人间改成两人间，两人间改成一人间，合计18张病床。
For all three and four, read two, for two read one, for a total of 18 beds.
虽然按照安排，红会医院主要救治轻症患者，危重症应当转向一些定点重症收治医院。
Although, according to the arrangement, the Red Cross hospital mainly treats light patients, the critical situation should be referred to a number of targeted intensive care hospitals.
但事实上，“真正的危重症病人是转不走的”。
But the truth is, "the really critical patient is not going to turn away."
原因在于，从病房到救护车的15分钟里，病人只能用低流量氧气包吸氧，救护车上的供氧依然强度不够。
The reason is that for 15 minutes from the ward to the ambulance, the patient can only take in oxygen with a low-flow oxygen pack and the oxygen supply on the ambulance is still not strong enough.
红会医院距离定点收治重症医院湖北省人民医院东院有37公里，至少50分钟车程，一段时间的缺氧会造成不可逆的器官损伤。
The hospital is 37 kilometers away from the central hospital of Hubei Provincial People's Hospital and at least 50 minutes' drive away.
黄晓波说，他们都有赖于四川省医疗队里的24个重症科和呼吸科专家，以及八十多个专业重症护士。
Both rely on 24 intensive care and respiratory specialists from Sichuan's medical corps, as well as more than 80 specialized intensive care nurses, Huang said.
接手第一个危重症病人时，黄晓波“急疯了”。
Huang Xiaobo was "frantic" when he took over the first critically ill patient.
他在整个武汉市找ECMO（体外膜肺氧合），四处拜托医学专家、院长。
He looked for ECMO all over Wuhan, asking medical experts and deans everywhere.
ECMO是体外生命支持最强有力的系统，也是昂贵的仪器，而红会医院只有一些基本配置，比如呼吸机。
ECMO is the most powerful in vitro life support system and an expensive instrument, while the ICRC hospital has only some basic features, such as a respirator.
三天后，红会医院院长找来了一台ECMO，好在，病人已经在“有孔的地方都加氧”的方式下，喘了过来。
Three days later, the director of the ICRC hospital called in an ECMO, but the patient had gasped in the form of "oxygen in all holes."
在设备改造上，最好的消息是2月15投入使用的两个三层楼高的氧气罐，这大大改善了医院的供氧能力，“两个救命的罐子”。
In terms of equipment modifications, the best news is that two three-storey oxygen tanks opened on February 15, which greatly improved the hospital's oxygen supply capacity, "two life-saving jars."
黄晓波接手的第二个病人是老鲁，一个氧饱和度80的重症大爷。
The second patient Huang took over was Lao Lu, a serious grandson with an oxygen saturation of 80 degrees.
黄晓波循例查了心跳、血压，然后问出了他认为最关键的问题：“老鲁，早饭吃了吗？”“吃了。
Huang routinely checked his heartbeat and blood pressure and then asked what he thought were the most crucial questions: "Did you have breakfast, Lu?"
”“吃了多少？”“俩馒头。
"How much did you eat?" "Two steamed buns.
”“很好很好，你现在想不想吃午饭？昨天盒饭吃完了没有？”“吃完了。
"Very well, would you like to have lunch now? Did you finish your lunch yesterday?"
”“老鲁你一定活得下来！一定活得下来！只要你能吃得下，就能熬过去！”黄晓波拔高了音量，他是特意说给身边一同查房的医生护士们听的。
"Old Lu you certainly can live! As long as you can eat, you can get through it!" Huang Xiaobo raised the volume, saying specially to the doctors and nurses with whom he consulted the room.
“我觉得鲁大爷有希望，还有15楼的文婆婆。
"I think Uncle Lu has hope, and a mother-in-law on the 15th floor.
我觉得给病人以信心，比药还管用。
I think giving confidence to a patient is better than medicine.
这么多天以来，这是我最好的感受。
This has been my best feeling for so many days.
我并不认为我当医生做了什么，给了他们什么最好的药，没有，而是给了这些病人希望。
I don't think I did anything as a doctor, I gave them the best medicine, no, but hope for these patients.
这是最重要的。
That is the most important thing.
”这也是四川队成员的约定：看到情况不是特别恶劣、没进入昏迷的病人，一定要说，这个病人是有希望的！黄晓波接到过红会医院呼吸科主任哭着打来的电话，也看到过重症病房里，医生护士因为救治力量不够绝望到麻木的眼光。
Huang Xiaobo had received a cry from the head of the respiratory department of the Red Cross hospital, and had seen doctors and nurses in the intensive care unit with numb eyes for lack of help.
“你看到那么多人在排队等着看病，每天又有人救不活，你就觉得无助，所有的努力都是白做，你就会怀疑自己。
"When you see so many people waiting in line to see a doctor and someone is dying every day, you feel helpless and all your efforts are in vain, and you suspect yourself.
”人多了，护士们的工作时长终于可以从8个小时缩短到4-6个小时。
With so many people, nurses are finally able to reduce their working hours from eight to four to six hours.
截至2月19日，红会医院一线医护人员共有445人，外地援助的一线医护人员共计367人，其中护士266人，比红会医院多44人。
As at 19 February, 445 frontline staff of ICRC hospitals and 367 frontline medical staff in the field had been assisted, of whom 266 were nurses, 44 more than ICRC hospitals.
除了四川第一批医疗援助队，还有由中国非公立医疗机构协会牵头，来自山西、北京、上海的非公立医疗队。
In addition to the first medical aid teams in Sichuan, there are non-public medical teams from Shanxi, Beijing and Shanghai, led by the China Association of Non-Public Medical Institutions.
改造红会医院，是武汉疫情救援中最典型的一个医院改造案例。
Renovation of the Red Cross Hospital is the most typical case of hospital reconstruction in Wuhan.
黄晓波说这比参与汶川地震救援那半个月还累：“那是我人生中当医生最幸福的时候，因为只操心治病。
"It was the happiest time in my life when I was a doctor because I was only concerned with treating diseases," Huang said.
在这家医院很累，思想上很累。
I'm very tired in this hospital. I'm very tired mentally.
”现在好些了，他重新做回医生。
"Now that he was better, he went back to being a doctor.
每日在重症病房查房两轮，和病人说你们别担心，多吃多睡。
Check in the intensive care unit twice a day and tell the patient don't worry. Eat more and sleep more.
17床的于大爷说，“我糖尿病啊，不敢多吃”，黄晓波回：“你怕啥！命都没了，还管血糖。
"I diabetes, do not dare to eat more," Huang Xiaobo replied: "You are afraid of what!
吃！使劲吃！”于大爷高兴，一顿吃两个盒饭，黄晓波自己也这样，每顿的盒饭，要吃两轮。
Eat, eat hard! "Uncle Yu is happy, eat two boxed rice, Huang Xiaobo himself, every meal box rice, to eat two rounds.
“早期有家属要来送饭，要来送免疫球蛋白什么，我说你们那是没体会到什么是战时，我经历过汶川地震，战时就是，你要什么有什么。
"Early family to bring food, to send immunoglobulin or something, I said that you did not understand what is wartime, I experienced Wenchuan earthquake, war is, you want what.
”黄晓波的意思是，此刻即战时。
Huang meant that the moment was wartime.
2020年2月15日，武汉下雪了。
On February 15, 2020, it snows in Wuhan.
从湘雅医院派驻金银潭医院重症ICU病房支援的护士朱恋，上班路上拍了一张红色外套上落着雪花的照片。
Zhu Yong, a nurse supported by ICU ward of Xiangya Hospital, took a picture of snow on a red coat on her way to work.
平日上班穿着防护服闷热，这天下雪冷了，一个班下来都没出汗。
Usually wear protective clothing to work sultry, it is snowy and cold that day, a class did not sweat.
（朱恋/图）3地市紧急求援对口援助方案逐步形成十六市所获得的医疗资源和支援差异不小，其背后有独特的逻辑：率先报告疫情能够吸引决策层和舆论关注，从而更早地获得更多资源。
/ [^ # 39 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105] / n. There is a unique logic behind the gradual formation of counterpart assistance programmes in 16 municipalities, with a unique logic behind it: the ability to take the lead in reporting outbreaks attracts decision-making and public opinion attention, resulting in earlier access to additional resources.
武汉处于战时，武汉之外广袤的地市县乡也在经受疫情的压力测试，目前执行的十九省对口十六市方案其实是在动荡的疫情中逐步形成。
Wuhan is in the war, outside Wuhan, the vast cities and counties are also suffering from the epidemic stress tests, 19 provinces are currently implementing the 16 city program is in fact gradually formed in the turmoil of the epidemic.
南方周末记者发现，医疗资源极度紧缺的武汉市，对周边地市也派出了支援，而十六市所获得的医疗资源和支援差异不小，其背后有独特的逻辑：率先报告疫情能够吸引决策层和舆论关注，从而更早地获得更多资源。
Southern Weekend reporter found that Wuhan, a city with a severe shortage of medical resources, had sent support to neighboring cities, while the 16 cities received different medical resources and support, with a unique logic behind it: to take the lead in reporting the epidemic would attract decision-making and public opinion, and thus more resources at an earlier stage.
黄冈是新冠肺炎疫情中最早受到外界关注的武汉周边地市。
Huanggang is the earliest city to be concerned by the outside world in the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia.
“舆论关注是黄冈的幸运，尽管给我们带了压力，但也给黄冈带来了更多资源。
"Public opinion is Huanggang's lucky, although it gives us pressure, but also brought more resources to Huang Gang.
”一位不愿具名的黄冈市卫健委人士告诉南方周末记者。
A Huanggang bodyguard, who declined to be named, told Southern Weekend reporter.
1月22日，湖北省长王晓东赴黄冈调研疫情，前一天，黄冈成为首个披露确诊病例的湖北地级市。
On January 22, Huanggang Governor Wang Xiaodong traveled to Huanggang to investigate the outbreak. The day before, Huanggang became the first Hubei prefecture-level city to disclose a confirmed case.
据上述黄冈市卫健委人士透露，由于武汉的医院接诊了来自黄冈的确诊病例，省疾控的专家早在1月上旬就曾到黄冈调查，因而在疫情暴发时，黄冈较早获得检验试剂盒，也较早获得外省的医疗支援。
According to the above-mentioned Huanggang City Health Commission, Wuhan hospitals received a confirmed case from Huanggang, provincial disease control experts as early as the early January investigation in Huanggang, Huanggang early in the outbreak of the disease, Huanggang early test kits, and early access to medical support in the provinces.
1月25日晚，一支来自湖南的137人医疗队抵达黄冈；次日凌晨，140人的山东医疗队也到了，黄冈成为首个获得医疗援助的湖北地市。
On the night of January 25, a 137-member medical team from Hunan Province arrived in Huanggang. Early the next morning, a 140-member Shandong medical team arrived. Huanggang became the first city to receive medical assistance.
山东省卫健委人士告诉南方周末记者，他们是在1月24日接到组建援鄂医疗队的任务，次日上午才得知将要支援湖北黄冈。
Shandong Provincial Health Commission told Southern Weekend reporters that they received a mission to set up a medical team to support Huanggang Huanggang the next morning.
到了1月28日，黄冈新型肺炎防控指挥部更算了笔细账，恳请国家支持调派6名流调专家、4名检验专家，523名医生和911名护理人员支援黄冈。
On January 28, the new Wanggang Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command made a detailed call for state support for the deployment of six flow specialists, four inspection experts, 523 doctors and 911 paramedics to support Huang Gang.
并表示这是基于县乡两级防疫形势计算出的需求，彼时，山东和湖南两支医疗队集中在黄冈市区，无暇顾及县乡。
At that time, two medical teams from Shandong and Hunan were concentrated in Huanggang, and there was no leisure time for counties and townships.
与之形成对比的是，感染率高居全省第二的随州就“客气”不少。
In contrast, the rate of infection in the province's second highest Suizhou on the "polite" many.
随州获得的第一支外援医疗队，直至2月5日深夜才抵达。
The first foreign aid medical team in Suizhou did not arrive until late at night on 5 February.
当天，省长王晓东调研随州，同日，随州下辖县级市广水在政府官网上发布SOS，表示防护物资已经见底，请求医疗队和物资支援，王晓东现场调度省直部门解决。
On the same day, Governor Wang Xiaodong investigation Suizhou, the same day, under the jurisdiction of the county-level municipal Guangshui in government officials online issued SOS, said that protective materials have seen the bottom, request medical teams and material support, Wang Xiaodong site dispatching the straightening department.
当天下午，从湖北省肿瘤医院派出了一支31人的医疗队，这家省属三甲医院这一天就派出了四路援兵，包括支援雷神山和两个方舱医院。
In the afternoon, a 31-member medical team was dispatched from the Hubei Oncology Hospital, a provincial hospital in Sanjia province, which sent four reinforcements on that day, including support for Lei Shenshan and two square-cabin hospitals.
2月19日，该院工作人员告诉南方周末记者，院内目前只有少量留守医护，每天可提供20个预约化疗指标。
On 19 February, staff of the hospital told Southern Weekend that the hospital currently had only a small number of stay-at-home medical care and could provide 20 pre-appointment chemotherapy targets per day.
值得注意的是，2月4日刚在广水开会强调“强化医务人员自我防护和后勤保障工作”的随州市长克克，2月5日送走省长后再度到访广水，微服督导并召开调度会。
It is noteworthy that on February 4, the meeting in Guangshui stressed "strengthen self-protection and logistics of medical personnel" Suizhou City Changke, February 5 after the governor sent back to Guangshui, micro-clothing supervision and the convening of regulatory meetings.
2月6日晚，广水的求援把克克送上了央视《新闻1+1》。
On the night of Feb. 6, Guangshui's plea for help sent him to CCTV News 1 + 1.
当克克说到“目前物资紧张已有所缓解，下一步主要还是整合现有医护人员” 时，主持人白岩松打断道，“克克市长您还是有点非常客气，您具体说一下缺什么东西，需不需要更大程度支援？”就在克克与白岩松连线的同时，一支江西援鄂医疗队正在集结准备前往随州，克克于次日凌晨在酒店迎接了他们。
When Kirk said that "the material shortage has eased and the next step is to integrate the existing medical staff," the host, Bai Yansong, interrupted. "Mayor Kirk is still very polite, you say exactly what is missing, need more support?"
2月7日下午，国家卫健委医政医管局监察专员郭燕红在发布会上表示，将建立一省包一市的对口支援关系，全力支持湖北省加强病人收治工作。
On the afternoon of February 7, Guo Yanhong, an inspector of the National Health and Wellbeing Hospital Authority, said at a press conference that the government would set up a supportive and supportive relationship between the provinces and the whole city to provide full support to Hubei Province in strengthening patient care.
一时间，各种对口支援方案广为流传。
For a while, various counterpart support programmes became widespread.
一位接近国家卫健委的人士告诉南方周末记者，对口支援的设想比较早就形成了，但当时各省的疫情还不太明朗，因此并未公布结对方案，而是采取了先派医疗队的方式。
A person close to the National Fitness and Health Commission told Southern Weekend reporter that the idea of counterpart support had come into being relatively early, but the situation in the provinces was not clear at the time, so the twinning programme was not announced, but in the form of a medical team.
两天后，国家卫健委终于下发了这份对口支援方案。
Two days later, the National Health Commission finally issued the corresponding support programme.
方案基本延续了前期的支援关系，早前派出医疗队的省份对口支援受援地。
The programme basically continued the previous support relationship, earlier sent medical teams to the provinces to support the recipient.
黄冈、孝感原先都接收了两个省的医疗队，因而便形成两省援一市的局面，而山西自1月26日即派队支援天门、仙桃、潜江三个县级市，这一安排也被保留。
Huanggang and filial piety, which had previously received medical teams from both provinces, have created a situation in which Shanxi province has sent troops to three counties -- Tianmen, Xiantao and Qianjiang -- since January 26, the arrangement has been maintained.
2月11日，山东省副省长孙继业率队飞抵黄冈。
February 11, Shandong Province Vice Governor Sun Jieyi led the team to Huanggang.
次日的对接会上，黄冈市长邱丽新开门见山地提出了需求：组建医疗小分队帮扶下辖县市，加派流调、消杀、心理干预等方面的专家、支援防护物资、畅通生活物资。
The next day at the docking meeting, Huanggang Mayor Qiu Lixin put forward the demand: set up a medical team to help the county and municipalities under their jurisdiction, increase the transfer, elimination, psychological intervention and other experts, support protective materials, unimpeded life materials.
这基本上概括了各受援地的大部分需求。
This essentially summarizes most of the needs of the recipient locations.
山东省卫健委工作人员告诉南方周末记者，早前选派医疗队完全听由国家卫健委指令，对口支援之后，结对省市可根据需求自行安排支援方案，支援的范畴也将从收治扩展到防疫、物资、民生等方面。
Shandong Health Commission staff told Southern Weekend reporter that earlier selection of medical teams was entirely under the direction of the National Health Commission, counterpart support, the twinning provinces and municipalities can arrange their own support programmes according to the needs, and the scope of support will be extended from admission to epidemic prevention, material and livelihood.
作为举国体制的范例模式，对口支援极大地调动了行政体系的积极性，医疗队的后勤保障明显加强。
As an example of juguo system, counterpart support has greatly mobilized the enthusiasm of the administrative system, the logistics support of medical teams has been significantly strengthened.
省级领导送行成为标配，地市领导亲自在机场、车站迎接，此前医疗队抵鄂后发生过长时间滞留机场的情况，之后得到明显改善。
Provincial leaders saw off the standard, the city leaders personally met at the airport, station, before the arrival of the medical team after a long stay at the airport, and has been significantly improved.
2月13日，山东省医疗队进驻黄冈下辖的蕲春县时，更是有16辆警用摩托鸣笛开道。
On February 13, the Agkistrodon Agkistrodon jurisdiction under the jurisdiction of the Huanggang Agkistrodon is proceeding with 16 police motorcycles.
上述国家卫健委人士透露，“在安排对口支援省份时，除了考虑确诊病例数量，还要考虑下辖区县的多少，因为对口支援的医疗队需要下沉至县乡。
"In addition to the number of confirmed cases, we need to consider the number of districts and counties under our jurisdiction, as the corresponding medical teams need to sink to the counties and townships," the spokesman said.
”各省遂在本省救援方案内也炮制出“一市包一县”的做法，例如黄冈市下辖一区七县两市，湖南和山东各负责一半，湖南将五个对口区县分包给了益阳、娄底、湘潭、永州、郴州。
Within the province's rescue plan, provinces have created "one city, one county," for example, Huanggang has seven counties under its jurisdiction, Hunan and Shandong are each responsible for half, and Hunan has subcontracted five counterpart counties to Yiyang, Loudi, Xiangtan, Yongzhou and Chenzhou.
4下沉县乡荆楚小城故事2月15日是个特别的日子，这天雪飘全鄂。
4 sinking county town Jingchu story February 15 is a special day, the day the snow Piaoyue.
班下得比较早，余腊梅和同事踏雪走了40分钟才回到驻地，她在武汉的华中科技大学同济医学院读了五年书，“从来不记得湖北的早春能这么冷”。
She spent five years at the Tongji Medical School of Wuhan Huazhong University of Science and Technology. "I never remember how cold it was in Hubei Province in the early spring.
与省会武汉不同，湖北十六市多数下辖广袤的县乡区域。
Unlike Wuhan, the capital city of Hubei, most of the 16 cities under the jurisdiction of the vast county and township areas.
封城禁行之后，当地百姓只能就近就医，缺医少药的县乡亟需外来的援助。
After the closure of the city, local people can only be close to medical treatment, lack of medical assistance in counties and townships in urgent need of external assistance.
黄冈、孝感是湖北省除武汉外疫情最重、幅员最阔的两个城市，早期的外地支援力量很难顾及县乡。
Huanggang and filial piety are the two most affected cities in Hubei Province, except Wuhan, and it was difficult for the early field support forces to take into account the counties and townships.
但在病例和区县都相对较少的荆门，第一批内蒙古援鄂医疗队就做到了下沉至所有县区。
But in the case and district are relatively few Jingmen, the first medical team in Inner Mongolia to help Hubei on the sinking to all counties.
内蒙古医生刘景彬被分配至荆门市下辖的钟祥市，他原为他所在医院医疗队的队长，但分配计划将他和5位护士分在了不同区县。
Inner Mongolia doctor Liu Jingbin was assigned to the city of Zhongxiang under the jurisdiction of Jingmen City, where he was originally the head of his hospital medical team, but the distribution plan placed him and five nurses in different districts and counties.
刚到钟祥的日子有点灰色。
It was a bit grey when I arrived at Zhongxiang.
“每天只看到确诊的、病人逐渐加重的，还有死亡的，没有出院的”，钟祥的确诊病例从50例迅速增长到两百多例。
"Every day we see only confirmed cases, gradual increase of patients, but also death, not discharged from hospital." The number of confirmed cases of Zhong Xiang increased rapidly from 50 to over 200.
患者在接诊时特别烦躁，“血氧低的人会缺氧，中枢也会受损，躁动不配合，憋气难受，整个脸相对发紫，你让他安静，他自己都控制不住。
The patient is particularly irritable on admission, "hypoxic people have hypoxia, central damage, restlessness, suffocation, suffocating pain, the whole face is purple, you let him quiet, he can not control himself.
”“我没把压力跟家人说。
"" I didn't put pressure on my family.
还是医疗队队员们互相排解，彼此宽心。
Or the members of the medical team work with each other and relax.
”他知道有同事到湖北后，每天失眠，只能吃安定，朦朦胧胧睡下。
"He knows that some colleagues to Hubei, every day insomnia, can only eat stability, hazy sleep.
自治区卫健委了解情况后，将心理咨询专家陆续拉进刘景彬所在的工作群，帮助他们做些心理疏导。
After understanding the situation, health care experts will be drawn into Liu Jingbin's work group, to help them do some psychological counseling.
引发刘景彬强烈共情的是一名47岁的女患者，她戴着无创呼吸机，血氧饱和度才83左右，刘景彬发现后，给她更换了呼吸机，数字迅速上到了92。
Liu Jingbin caused strong empathy is a 47-year-old female patient, wearing a non-invasive ventilator, blood oxygen saturation of only about 83, Liu Jing-bin found, gave her a replacement ventilator, the number quickly reached 92.
这位患者在市场里卖豆腐，每天凌晨两三点就起来做工，天亮后拿出去卖，起早贪黑，尤其是快过年时，为了多挣点钱过年，还更辛苦些。
The patient sells tofu at the market. He gets up at two or three in the morning and sells it at daybreak. He gets up early and greedily.
她自己也不知道是什么时候被感染的，全家将近十人一块吃了年夜饭，家人都没被感染，只有她自己在正月初二发病。
She did not know when she was infected, the family of nearly 10 people ate dinner together, the family was not infected, only her own illness in the first two months of the month.
后来，她的病情明显好转，撤掉了呼吸机，直接吸氧，CT也显示出了好转迹象，心态也更平和了些。
Later, her condition noticeably improved, she removed the ventilator, direct oxygen inhalation, CT also showed signs of improvement, and a more peaceful mood.
刘景彬说，她有两个孩子，大儿子28岁没结婚，小儿子13岁，家里负担较重，心里有些委屈。
Liu said she had two children, the eldest son 28 years old did not marry, the youngest son 13 years old, the burden of the family is a bit aggrieved.
“她说她要不是这么辛苦，也不至于得了这个病。
"She says she wouldn't have got it if she hadn't worked so hard.
”眼下，刘景彬的病房里，大部分人的病情都在逐渐平稳，确诊人数也在逐渐减少。
At present, the majority of people in Liu's ward are getting steady and the number of confirmed cases is decreasing.
2月14日，对口支援荆门的浙江省医疗队也进入工作状态，专门收治所有重症患者，下属县级重症病人全部转往医疗条件更好的荆门市，分级诊疗体系逐渐完善。
On February 14, the Zhejiang Medical Team, which is supporting Jingmen, also went into operation, treating all patients with severe illnesses. All the patients in the county level were transferred to Jingmen, where medical conditions were better, and the grading system was gradually perfected.
除了医疗力量下沉，范围也在扩大，疫区对院感、流调、产科、心理等专业力量的需求逐渐凸显。
In addition to the medical forces sinking, the scope is also expanding, epidemic areas on the hospital sense, transfer, obstetrics, psychological and other professional forces gradually highlighted.
2月2日，江西产科医生余腊梅递了请战书，“生孩子这事儿不等人，别的科室都关了，产科也不能关。
February 2, Jiangxi obstetrician Yu Lamei handed over the invitation letter, "childbirth is not waiting for people, other departments are closed, obstetrics can not be closed.
”确定支援随州后，江西省妇幼处主动询问随州当地医院是否需要产科医生。
After confirming support for Suizhou, the Jiangxi Provincial Women's and Children's Office volunteered to ask Suizhou local hospitals if they needed obstetricians.
彼时，随州市中心医院妇产科有一半医护力量都去支援感染科了，但住院的待产妇并不比平时少，亟需支援。
At that time, half of the obstetrics and gynaecology department of Suizhou Central Hospital went to the infection department, but there were no fewer expectant mothers in hospital than usual.
2月10日，余腊梅接到出发通知，一个星期前下单的口罩、酒精一单也没有发货。
On February 10, Yu Lamei received the departure notice, a week ago ordered a mask, alcohol not a single delivery.
唯一收到的是经常光顾的一家东莞淘宝店寄来的两双防水鞋，老板听说她要去湖北抗疫，专程去仓库里翻出两双，用顺丰次日达免费邮给了她。
The only thing she received was two pairs of waterproof shoes from a Dongguan Taobao store. The boss heard that she was going to Hubei Province to fight against the epidemic.
同事担心她物资不够，自己掏钱想办法买了50个医用外科口罩和20个N95口罩送到集合地，余腊梅打趣说：“我们医生的年终奖都拿去买口罩了。
Worried she wasn't getting enough supplies, she paid for 50 surgical masks and 20 N95 masks, and Ms. Yu joked: 'Our doctors get masks at the end of the year
”2月15日是个特别的日子，这天雪飘全鄂。
February 15 was a special day, and the snow came to an end.
班下得比较早，余腊梅和同事踏雪走了40分钟才回到驻地，她在武汉的华中科技大学同济医学院读了五年书，“从来不记得湖北的早春能这么冷”。
She spent five years at the Tongji Medical School of Wuhan Huazhong University of Science and Technology. "I never remember how cold it was in Hubei Province in the early spring.
这位2019年“双11”刚回国的援非产科医生，用“孤勇”来形容自己。
The 2019 "double 11" just returned to the country to help obstetricians, using the word "lonely" to describe themselves.
在突尼斯援助时，余腊梅所在的医疗点离利比亚边境不远，时常有从利比亚逃来的难民前来求助。
At the time of Tunisia's assistance, Yu's medical point was not far from the Libyan border, and refugees from Libya often came to seek help.
危急情况下，经常来不及化验就要做手术。
Operations are often carried out in critical situations before laboratory tests are available.
她时常感到后怕。
She is often frightened.
余腊梅毫不掩饰对疫情的担忧，“随州确实比当时的非洲还危险，非洲只是生活条件差，这个病毒的传染性太强了，关键我们对它还知之甚少。
"Suizhou was indeed more dangerous than Africa at the time. Africa was just living in poor living conditions, and the virus was too infectious to be understood," she said.
”随州市中心医院产科主任是余腊梅同济医学院的师姐，客气地把参与新冠肺炎感染孕妇的会诊和危重症孕妇抢救任务交给了她，余腊梅则坚持承担力所能及的日常诊疗工作。
"The director of obstetrics at Suizhou Central Hospital, a teacher at Yu Ramei Tongji Medical College, politely handed over to her the task of consultation with pregnant women suffering from Newcomer Pneumonia and the rescue of critically ill pregnant women.
刚下到科室这天，她就做了两台剖宫产。
Just arrived at the department one day, she did two cesarean section.
疫情全面暴发一月来，随州市中心医院大部分科室都已停诊，院区里积起了雪，显得格外安静。
Since the outbreak of the epidemic in January, most of the central hospital in Suizhou City have been closed, the hospital area has accumulated snow, appears particularly quiet.
余腊梅加快回驻地的脚步，指挥部给队员添置了羽绒服，前一天，随州的华科校友给医疗队送来了一批电热毯——用孤勇形容自己的余腊梅，很容易被种种善意打动，她认真地对南方周末记者说，“做医生太值得了”。
Yuramei quickened her pace back to the station, and the headquarters added a down jacket. The day before, Suizhou alumni had brought a batch of electric blankets to the medical team.
不过，这位产科大夫更常挂在嘴边的一句话是“但是我是医生啊”，这句带着些许哭腔的话，更能透露她对这份职业的复杂感情。
But the obstetrician's more oft-repeated words, "But I'm a doctor," were more revealing of her complex feelings about the profession.
2月15日这天，武汉，没有人会忽视漫天的雪花。
February 15, Wuhan, no one will ignore the sky snowflakes.
护士朱恋在上班路上拍了一张红色外套上落着雪花的照片，她说“上班舒服”。
Nurse Zhu Yong took a picture of snow on a red coat on her way to work. She said it was "comfortable at work."
那是防护服穿得最舒服的一天，平日上班穿着防护服闷热，衣服里湿了又干，干了又湿，那天下雪，一个班下来都没出汗。
It was the most comfortable day in protective clothing. It was sultry on weekdays, wet and dry in clothes, dry and wet, snowy that day, and not sweating from class.
作家方方在她的“封城”日记里写道，在武汉，下这样大雪的冬天也是不多。
Writer Fang Fang wrote in her diary "Sealed the City" that in Wuhan, such a snowy winter is not much.
武汉的方舱医院里，一位来自甘肃县城的护士长，写下一组诗句，几天里传遍全网。
In the Fang cabin hospital in Wuhan, a head nurse from Gansu county wrote a set of verses that spread all over the Internet in a few days.
她是一名心理科护士长，笔名是弱水吟。
She is a head nurse of psychology department, pseudonym is weak water Yin.
她写道：来武汉，我不是来欣赏樱花的也不是来风花雪月，接受吹捧只想疫情结束能安全回家即使剩下一把骨头也要把自己带回给儿女、爹妈……戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
When I came to Wuhan, I didn't come to see the cherry blossoms, or the flowers, she wrote. I just wanted to see the end of the epidemic and go home safely.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
重症武汉，重新呼吸。
In severe Wuhan, breathe again.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "重症武汉，重新呼吸";。
var msg _ title = & quot; severe Wuhan, with renewed breathing;;
var msg_desc = "三万医务人员空投，如何抢救一座大城";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
