2亿人的“在家办公”实验。
Two hundred million people are experimenting with home-based work.
周小铃 刘诗洋。
Zhou Xiaoling Liu Shiyang.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲2月10日，在太行山深处的河北石家庄市井陉县北良都村，北良都小学一名学生在家中利用网络听课学习。
Feb. 10, in the depth of Taihang Mountain, Hebei Jingxing Jingxing Beiliangdu village, Beiliangdu Primary School, a student at home using the network to learn.
（新华社 张秀科/图）全文共3875字，阅读大约需要8分钟。
The full text is 3,875 words and takes about eight minutes to read.
“企业微信”显示，全国处理消息最繁忙的行业是教育、医疗和政府。
The busiest sectors in the country to deal with the news were education, health and government, according to MicroCredit.
对于阿里和腾讯来说，看上去是“钉钉”和“企业微信”的较量，背后其实是阿里云和腾讯云的比拼。
For Ali and Tencent, it looks like a "nail" and "enterprise micro-letter" contest, in fact, Ali Yun and Tencent cloud battle.
“我们一直在想5G将会以什么方式到来，但是没想到会是这种方式。
"We've been thinking about how the 5G is going to arrive, but we didn't expect it to be that way.
”本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 周小铃 刘诗洋责任编辑 | 张玥2020年春节的节后复工，比往年晚了。
This article began at Southern Weekend and was not allowed to reproduce without authorization southern weekend reporter Zhou Xiaocheng Liu Shiyang, the responsible editor and deputy editor of Chang's 2020 Spring Festival, which is later than usual.
早在2020年1月27日，国务院就宣布延长春节假期，随后各地政府逐步跟进，大部分省市将复工时间定在了2月10日。
As early as January 27, 2020, the State Council announced the extension of the Spring Festival holiday, followed by local governments, most provinces and municipalities scheduled the resumption of work for February 10.
2月10日上午8点，早高峰时段，首都北京的交通广播罕见地通报全城畅通。
February 10 at 8 a.m., the early rush hour, the capital of Beijing traffic radio rarely announced the city open.
国贸东三环桥，司机们踩油门的右脚多少会有点不适应——这个限速80km的路口平时连一半速度都达不到，现在稍不注意就会超速。
At the East Triple Ring Bridge, drivers who pedal on the gas pedal's right foot are a bit out of whack -- the 80-km intersection doesn't reach half its normal speed, and can overspeed if you don't watch it.
东三环桥下的北京国贸CBD，仍在疫情中沉睡。
DongSanhuan Bridge under the Beijing International Trade Center CBD, is still sleeping in the epidemic.
因为没有车流，路口的红灯显得时间过长。
Because there was no traffic, the red light at the intersection seemed too long.
人流最密集的大北窑公交站和国贸地铁人烟稀少。
The most densely populated bus station and the International Trade Center Metro are sparsely populated.
写字楼一改往日的热闹，仅有的几个白领在前台测量体温后，不想多停留一分钟。
Office building a lively past, only a few white-collar workers in front of the temperature measurement, do not want to stay for one more minute.
也许是因为SARS时期的恐慌。
Perhaps because of the SARS panic.
在北京工作的人似乎对复工更为保守，从依旧冷清的北京国贸再向北30公里，平日里码农遍地的中关村软件园也还在沉睡。
People working in Beijing seem to be more conservative about returning to work, 30 kilometers north of the still-deserted Beijing International Trade Center, and the normally sprawling Zhongguancun software park still sleeps.
2月10日中午12点，往日车流不息的腾讯总部门前只有几个保安驻守，旁边的网易、新浪、联想也是一片冷清。
Feb. 10 noon, the old traffic flow Tencent headquarters in front of only a few security guards, next to Netease, Sina, Lenovo is also a cold.
中关村软件园里以往最热闹的咖啡店和吸烟处，只有寥寥数人。
Zhongguancun software garden used to be the most popular coffee shop and smoking section, only a few people.
在这片区域工作三年，换了四家公司的程序员于然告诉南方周末记者，他的工作完全可以在家里完成，在疫情彻底过去之前，哪怕被辞退他也不会去上班。
After three years in the area, programmers at four different companies told Southern Weekend that he could do his job at home and would not go to work until the epidemic was completely over.
事实上，相比于中小企业，互联网巨头们的复工计划已算相当人性化。
In fact, the Internet giants "plans to get back to work are quite humane compared to those of small and medium-sized enterprises.
百度、搜狐、美团等多家大型互联网公司的员工告诉南方周末记者，他们本周仍以网络办公为主，返岗日期都推迟了17号以后，而腾讯和今日头条，则直接把假期延长到了2月24号。
Employees at several big internet companies, including Baidu, Sohu and USM, told Southern Weekend that they still focus on networking this week, postponing their return to work beyond 17 days, while Tencent and headline news today extended their holidays directly to Feb. 24.
据58同城招聘近期发布的《2020年疫情对企业复工与招聘影响调研报告》显示，47%的企业将在2月10日复工。
According to a recent survey on the impact of the 2020 epidemic on the resumption of work and recruitment, 47 per cent of businesses will return to work on February 10.
15%的企业在2月10日以后复工，仍有27%的企业(截至2月5日统计)还未确定复工时间。
Fifteen per cent of enterprises returned to work after 10 February, and 27 per cent (as at 5 February) had not set a time frame for resuming work.
在采取延时复工的企业中，55%企业采取在家办公方式;32%企业休假，有工作响应即可;13%的企业正常休假。
In enterprises with delayed return to work, 55 per cent are home-based; 32 per cent are on leave with a work response; and 13 per cent are on regular leave.
这表明，绝大部分企业采取了线上灵活办公方式，而根据58同城招聘调研数据显示，在家办公的企业中，51%属于IT、通信、电子及互联网行业。
This suggests that the vast majority of businesses are flexible online, while 51 per cent of home-based businesses are in the IT, communications, electronics and Internet industries, according to 58 homemade recruitment surveys.
很多受访者对南方周末记者表示，在家办公虽然不用上下班通勤、打卡，但也没有了下班时间，随时在岗。
Many interviewees told Southern Weekend reporter that although working from home does not have to commute to work, card, but there is no off-duty, ready to be on duty.
而以阿里巴巴、腾讯为主的线上办公软件服务提供方则普遍发现，客户需求是平时的10倍不止，要维持体系稳定运转“，是一笔天价的开支”。
And Alibaba, Tencent-based online office software service providers generally found that customer demand is more than 10 times normal, to maintain a stable operation of the system, "is a sky-high expenditure.
1随时随地“在线”春节期间，家住山东的孙茜先后收到两条来自公司的开工短信，她供职于深圳南山区的一家科技制造业公司。
At any time, anywhere, during the Spring Festival, Sun Xi, who lives in Shandong province, received two start-up text messages from her company. She works for a technology manufacturing company in Nanshan District, Shenzhen.
短信通知，返岗时间从2月3日推迟到2月10日。
SMS notice that the return time was postponed from 3 February to 10 February.
开工前，孙茜刷着网络上源源不断的疫情信息，心里止不住地难过，她担心返岗后员工聚集，自己的安全无法得到保证。
Before starting work, Sun Xi brush the network continuously epidemic information, the heart cannot help but feel sad, she is afraid to return to work after the staff gather, their own safety can not be guaranteed.
根据深圳市卫生监督局的通报，2020年2月3日0时至12时，深圳市新冠肺炎累计确诊245例。
A total of 245 cases of Shenzhen New Crown Pneumonia were diagnosed between 0000 and 1200 hours on February 3, 2020, according to the Shenzhen Health Supervision Bureau.
其中南山区确诊病例最多，达到50例。
The most cases were diagnosed in Nanshan area, which reached 50 cases.
但其实对于孙茜来说，推迟返岗并不等于放假。
But for Sun Xie, postponing her return to work is not equivalent to a holiday.
她的团队领导提出，这一周内要“在家办公”，大家通过“企业微信”App召开线上会议。
Her team leader suggested working from home this week, with people holding online meetings through the Enterprise Micromail App.
孙茜告诉南方周末记者，从早上九点开始，她就一直坐在电脑前办公，爸妈把饭端到电脑桌前，都没顾上吃一口，“活就这么多，哪有可能‘摸鱼’?”姚辛在中国移动某分公司旗下的一家互联网公司工作，公司1200多人仅200人需按时返岗，其余员工则线上办公。
Sun told Southern Weekend reporter that she had been sitting in front of her computer since nine o'clock in the morning and her parents had not even taken a bite to eat. Yao Xin works for an Internet company owned by a subsidiary of China Mobile.
姚辛的老家在山西阳泉市，每逢过年，村里老小都会参与新年表演，儿时好友聚会聊天。
Yao Xin's hometown in Shanxi Yangquan City, every Spring Festival, the village will participate in the New Year performances, childhood friends party chat.
而今年，姚辛在大年初一就已经在线上忙着给公司报送疫情进展、员工健康情况等各类信息，有时甚至会忙到凌晨。
And this year, Yao Xin has been busy on-line to the company to report the progress of the epidemic, employee health, and other information, sometimes even busy into the early morning.
“这次在家办公，爸妈都体会到了我工作的辛苦。
"This time at home, my parents have experienced the hard work of my work.
”他笑着说。
'he said with a smile.
由于不在公司，领导们的电话来得更频繁。
Leaders call more frequently because they are out of the company.
姚辛的手指一直在键盘和手机之间转换，打字的同时还得接听领导电话，回复办公进度。
Yao Xin's fingers have been switching between keyboards and mobile phones, and typing has had to answer the leader's phone and get back to work.
“有时候，见面两三句话就能说清楚的事，发微信却说不清楚，急事只能打电话。
"Sometimes a word or two can tell a clear thing, but a letter can't, and a call can only be made in a hurry.
”往常，9点上班，姚辛总会在8:30之前坐在工位上。
Normally, Yao Xin goes to work at 9: 30 and Yao always sits in the work place before 8: 30.
在家办公后，姚辛只需要保证在开会时按时接听语音电话就行“，语音会议的好处就是你躺着、站着、坐着怎么接都行”。
After working from home, Yao Xin only needs to ensure that he can answer the phone on time during a meeting. "The advantage of voice conferencing is that you can lie down, stand and sit and pick up whatever you want.
姚辛告诉南方周末记者，线上办公的监督不到位，效率完全看个人。
Yao Xin told Southern Weekend reporter, online office supervision is not in place, the efficiency depends entirely on the individual.
对于单身员工而言，姚辛省去了很多家庭劳务琐事，但对有家庭的员工而言，家务、孩子多少会分散注意力，“非正式的小组会议里，有时候能听到电话里有孩子问作业、说话的声音”。
For single workers, Yao Xin saves a lot of domestic chores, but for those with families, housework and kids can be a distraction. "In informal group meetings, children can sometimes be heard asking questions and talking on the phone.
姚辛也注意到，自从线上办公以后，虽然省去了通勤的时间，午休也可以躺在自家床上，但也没了上下班和周末的概念，没做完的事情该做还得加班加点做，原先的8小时工作制变成了随时随地“在线”。
Yao noted that while commuting time was eliminated and lunch breaks allowed in his bed, the concept of commuting and weekends was lost, unfinished business had to be done overtime and the previous eight-hour workday became "online" anytime, anywhere, Yao noted.
2“上网课的尴尬”多位互联网行业的从业者告诉南方周末记者，他们能较快适应线上办公的节奏，因为平常也总是线上协同办公。
"The Embarrassment of Online Classes" Several Internet industry practitioners told Southern Weekend that they were able to adapt quickly to the pace of online work, as they were often co-located online.
一位做新媒体的女孩说，现在反而能把以前早上通勤的时间省出来，在家做做运动、准备个营养早餐。
Instead, says a new media girl, she can save her morning commute, do some exercise at home and prepare a nutritious breakfast.
相比而言，挑战更大的是习惯于面对面工作的行业，比如学校。
The bigger challenge, by contrast, is in industries accustomed to face-to-face work, such as schools.
2月10日，“上网课的尴尬”登上微博热搜。
Feb. 10, "The Embarrassment of Internet Class" boarded Weibo Hot Search.
在教育部“停课不停学”的号召下，多地中小学陆续开始通过网络复课，各地的人民教师们将三尺讲台从课堂搬到了直播间，学生则坐在家中通过iPad、电脑在线观看网络课程。
Under the Ministry of Education's call to "stop learning," primary and secondary schools are resuming classes online, with teachers everywhere moving three-foot podiums from the classroom to the studio, and students sitting at home watching online classes on iPads and computers.
蔡庭是海南某中学的一名教师，她在朋友圈里“抱怨”自己复工的第一天是在更换不同的直播软件中度过的。
Cai Ting, a teacher at a high school in Hainan province, complained in her friends' circle that her first day back at work had been spent changing live-broadcast software.
更换软件后基本能够保障课程流畅，“但课堂效果肯定是没法保障的”。
Replacement of software can basically guarantee the smooth flow of the curriculum, "but the classroom effect is certainly not guaranteed."
她回忆，2月10日首次线上课程，频频遇到软件崩溃，甚至老师和学生们一起盯了一上午的视频白板。
In her first online class on Feb. 10, she recalls, she frequently encountered software crashes, with teachers and students staring at the video whiteboard all morning.
软件客服只好向用户发送致歉信息：“两亿人同时在线，对整个行业来说还是第一次。
"For the first time in the industry, 200 million people are online," the company said.
”不同于中、小学教师们的手忙脚乱，校外教育机构早就做好了网络授课的准备。
In contrast to the hectic schedule of primary and secondary school teachers, extracurricular institutions are already getting ready to teach online.
2月3日晚，广东一家高中培训机构的老师徐彬，收到了公司行政人员规划的网课时间表，计划表中清晰地写好了各科老师的讲课时间及直播房间号。
On the evening of February 3, Xu Bin, a teacher at a high school training institution in Guangdong, received a schedule of online courses planned by the company's administrators.
由于以前是小班教学，线上开课的方式对徐彬来说更简单。
As a result of the small class teaching, online teaching methods for Xu Bin more simple.
他利用软件跟同学共享屏幕，通过语音与学生互动，完成教学任务。
He uses software to share screens with his classmates, interact with students via voice, and accomplish teaching tasks.
由于看不到学生的真实情况，徐彬判断，线上的教学效率跟线下比肯定会差一点。
As students do not see the real situation, Xu Bin judged that the online teaching efficiency and the online comparison will be almost.
阿里巴巴旗下办公软件“钉钉”的工作人员向南方周末记者介绍，抗疫期间，钉钉平台来自教育行业的用户量明显增多，钉钉的视频会议、群直播（在线课堂）以及员工健康智能日报等功能在疫情期间使用频率普遍较高。
Alibaba office software "nail" staff told Southern Weekend reporter that during the epidemic, nail platform users from the education industry significantly increased, staple video conferencing, group live (online classes) and staff health intelligence daily during the epidemic generally used more frequently.
目前，钉钉直播的老师有六十多万，学生有几千万人同时在线。
There are now more than 600,000 teachers and tens of millions of students online.
根据腾讯方面“企业微信”公布的数据来看，线上复工以后，最爱使用线上会议的城市是北京、深圳、上海、广州；线上开会时间最长的省份是江苏、浙江、山东；使用群主播进行线上培训最多的省份是广东、河北、河南；而处理消息最繁忙的行业是教育、医疗和政府。
According to Tencent's corporate micro-credit data, the most popular online meeting places are Beijing, Shenzhen, Shanghai and Guangzhou, while Jiangsu, Zhejiang and Shandong have the longest-running online sessions; Guangdong, Hebei and Henan are the provinces with the most online training using multicast; and the busiest sectors are education, health and government.
腾讯集团市场和公关部相关负责人周豫也告诉南方周末记者，就腾讯内部而言，员工工作节奏与往常一样，团队、上下级以微信、企业微信和腾讯会议等远程办公产品沟通。
Tencent Group market and public relations related responsible Zhou Yu also told Southern Weekend reporter, Tencent internal, the pace of staff work as usual, the team, subordinates to micro-letter, enterprise micro-letter and Tencent conference and other telecommuting products.
有些产品团队在春节一直没有休息。
Some product teams do not rest during the Spring Festival.
1月20日开始，主动加入这场“战疫”的腾讯团队越来越多，最多时，腾讯内部同时接入远程办公的员工就超过三万人。
Tencent's active participation in the epidemic began on January 20 with more than 30,000 employees connected to telecommuting at the same time.
3需求爆棚，系统承压突然而来的“在家办公”，手忙脚乱的不仅是白领们，还有线上服务的技术提供商。
3 demand booths, system pressure suddenly came "work from home," not only white-collar workers, but also online service technology providers.
对于阿里和腾讯来说，看上去是“钉钉”和“企业微信”的较量，背后其实是阿里云和腾讯云的比拼。
For Ali and Tencent, it looks like a "nail" and "enterprise micro-letter" contest, in fact, Ali Yun and Tencent cloud battle.
“企业微信”提供的数据显示，2月10日上午，它迎来最强大的一波开工、上课需求，服务器请求上涨超过10倍。
On the morning of February 10, it ushered in one of its strongest starts, demand for classes, and server requests rose more than tenfold, according to Enterprise Micromail.
当天，企业微信还专门为教育行业升级“群直播”的功能。
On the same day, the enterprise micro letter also specially upgrades "the group broadcast" function for the education profession.
此外，为了保证软件能够正常运转，会议产品“腾讯会议”从1月29日到2月6日，8天扩容了超100万核，足以支持全球5000万人同时在线开会。
Tencent, the conference's product, expanded by more than one million nuclei in eight days from Jan. 29 to Feb. 6, is enough to support 50 million people to meet online at the same time.
阿里“钉钉”的工作人员则透露，为了确保网络通畅，技术人员连续两天在“阿里云”上紧急扩容网络和计算资源，利用弹性计算资源编排服务（ROS）迅速新增部署了两万台云服务器，24小时值班保系统稳定，以支撑用户暴增的需求，最大能支持302人同时进入会议。
Ali's nailed staff said technicians had been working on the Ali cloud for two days to urgently expand the network and computing resources, quickly deploying 20,000 additional cloud servers using the Elastic Computing Resources programming service (ROS) and maintaining a stable 24-hour watch system to support surging user demand to support up to 302 simultaneous meetings.
这一切的背后，“这是一笔天价的开支”，提供给用户都是免费的。
Behind all this, "this is a priceless expense," which is offered to users free of charge.
据公开资料，这几天，“钉钉”的下载数量在苹果商城居高不下。
According to open data, these days, "nail" the number of downloads in Apple Mall high.
“钉钉”于2014年筹备开发，2015年1月正式运营。
The tacks were prepared for development in 2014 and went live in January 2015.
早期是针对中小企业提供的一种“共创”模式，解决中小企业内部沟通、协同办公的问题。
Early is a small and medium-sized enterprises to provide a "co-creation" model to solve the problem of communication, co-location.
随后，钉钉用户逐渐扩展，目前已基本覆盖全行业。
Subsequently, nailing users gradually expanded, has now basically covered the entire industry.
而“企业微信”最早则是为了企业内部的连接，同时，日常办公场景的需求和痛点也是众多企业面临的共同问题。
But "enterprise micro-letter" is originally for the enterprise interior connection, simultaneously, the daily office scene demand and the pain point also is many enterprise faces the common problem.
截至2019年，“企业微信”在医药、保险、汽车、银行、能源等行业的Top10企业的覆盖率平均达80%以上。
By 2019, TOP10 companies in medicine, insurance, automobiles, banking, and energy had an average of more than 80% coverage.
据南方周末记者不完全统计，目前有14款产品为疫情期间的线上办公提供服务，在此次疫情期间，各款软件都给出相应的免费权益，目前仅有阿里钉钉和企业微信全部免费。
According to Southern Weekend reporter incomplete statistics, there are currently 14 products for online office services during the epidemic period, each section of the software has given corresponding free benefits, so far only Ali nail nails and business micro-letter all free.
“哪怕没有这次疫情，移动办公和远程协同也会是未来不可避免的趋势。
"Even in the absence of this epidemic, mobile office and long-range collaboration will be an inevitable trend in the future."
”阿里钉钉工作人员说。
"said Ali nail-nailing clerk.
无论是线上办公，还是在线教育，都在这次的疫情中发现了新的机遇。
Both online work and online education have found new opportunities in the current epidemic.
姚辛所在的公司正积极推动5G时代到来，通过5G无线高速通信传输技术，让传输速率更高，网络时延更低，通讯容量更大，跨域沟通、协同办公将更加轻而易举。
Yao Xin's company is pushing for the 5G era, using 5G wireless high-speed communications technology to allow higher transmission rates, lower network latency, greater communication capacity, and easier cross-domain communication and teamwork.
“我们一直在想5G将会以什么方式到来，但是没想到会是这种方式。
"We've been thinking about how the 5G is going to arrive, but we didn't expect it to be that way.
”姚辛感叹道。
"sighed Yao Xin.
（应受访者要求，孙茜、姚辛、蔡庭、徐彬为化名）。
(Sun Ci, Yao Xin, Cai Ting and Xu Bin are aliases at the request of interviewees).
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
2亿人的“在家办公”实验。
Two hundred million people are experimenting with home-based work.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "2亿人的“在家办公”实验";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 160;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
