武汉“应收尽收”难在何处？。
Wuhan "receivable received" difficult where?
王伟凯。
Wang Weikai.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲2月19日，武昌医院的发热门诊就诊的人数明显减少。
Feb. 19, Wuchang hospital fever clinic attendance significantly reduced.
（南方周末记者 王伟凯/图）全文共5257字，阅读大约需要10分钟。
(Southern Weekend reporter Wang Weikai / map) The full text of 5,257 words, reading about 10 minutes.
因为诊断门槛过高，过去二十多天里，武汉未确诊患者形成了一个“堰塞湖”。
Because the diagnostic threshold is too high, in the past 20 days, Wuhan has not confirmed the formation of patients formed a "Yan Sehu."
由于床位和隔离点少，武汉市对于疑似患者和轻症患者的要求是“居家隔离”，这个策略是无奈之举，但也是失败之举。
Due to the small number of beds and isolation points, Wuhan city for suspected patients and patients with light disease is "home isolation", this strategy is a helpless, but also a failure.
为了补足社区人手，根据《长江日报》2月11日的报道，武汉市先后组织市直机关党员干部、市属国企干部职工、市属高校教师职工，共计1.6万余名干部职工，下沉到疫情较重的社区，统一编入街道社区工作队，协助开展“四类人员”集中隔离集中收治等工作。
To complement the community, Wuhan has organized cadres from municipal organs, cadres and cadres of municipal state-owned enterprises, and faculty and staff of municipal universities, totalling more than 16,000 cadres and workers.
本文由南方周末首发 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末特派记者 王伟凯南方周末实习生 龚柔善责任编辑 | 顾策 张玥“这件事不能再等了。
This article was first published by Southern Weekend without authorization to reproduce & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
”2020年2月16日，新任湖北省委常委、武汉市委书记王忠林在视频会议中说。
On February 16, 2020, the new Hubei Provincial Committee Standing Committee, Wuhan party secretary Wang Zhonglin, said in a videoconference.
他说的“这件事”是指为期3天的集中拉网式大排查，要力争在3天内，对居家患者进行地毯式、拉网式的排查，彻底摸清感染患者的“底数”。
He said the "matter" refers to a three-day intensive screening, to strive to home patients within three days, blanket screening, a thorough mapping of infected patients "bottom number.
这一天，距离2月5日湖北省“应收尽收、应治尽治”命令的下达已经过去了11天。
On that day, 11 days had passed since the order of February 5, "Receivable and curable" was issued in Hubei province.
那一天，湖北省新冠肺炎疫情防控指挥部发布命令，要求对疑似和确诊病例“应收尽收、应治尽治”，确保一个都不放过。
On that day, the Hubei Province Xinguan Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command issued an order, the suspected and confirmed cases of "receivable, should be treated as soon as possible" to ensure that no one spared.
“应收尽收”这个词其实早在二十多天前就出现了，此后一再被提起。
The word "receivable" actually appeared more than 20 days ago and has been used repeatedly ever since.
1月24日，武汉市政府就强调，要全面进入“战时”状态，确保发热病人得到及时救治，确保能够无条件收治所有疑似患者。
On January 24, Wuhan government stressed the need to fully enter the "wartime" state to ensure that febrile patients receive timely treatment, to ensure unconditional treatment of all suspected patients.
这一天正是除夕，武汉“封城”的第二天，很多人正在医院里苦苦地等着一张床位，一份核酸检测试剂。
It was New Year's Eve, the day after Wuhan was closed, and many people were languishing in the hospital waiting for a bed, a nucleic acid test reagent.
两天后，武汉再次强调，要拿出“一级响应”战时状态，做到“应诊尽诊、应住尽住、应收尽收、应到尽到”，坚决遏制疫情蔓延势头。
Two days later, Wuhan once again stressed the need to take out the "first response" wartime state, to do "due consultation, accommodation, receivable, should be done," resolutely to curb the spread of the epidemic.
此后，中共中央总书记习近平、国务院总理李克强及国务院副总理孙春兰等，均强调要做到所有患者“应收尽收”。
Since then, Chinese Communist Party General Secretary Xi Jinping, State Council Premier Li Keqiang and Vice Premier Sun Chunlan have all stressed that all patients should receive all their contributions.
遗憾的是，22天后，武汉感染患者的“底数”仍未查清，这场漫长的战役仍在持续。
Unfortunately, 22 days later, Wuhan infected patients "bottom number" has not been clarified, this long campaign is still ongoing.
武汉要做到“应收尽收”，为何这么难？2月12日，一辆城管车帮助患者转送到医院。
Wuhan to do "receivable", why so difficult? February 12, a city management car to help patients transfer to hospital.
（南方周末记者 王伟凯/图）1“堰塞湖”的形成2月13日，湖北省、武汉市双双换帅。
(Southern Weekend reporter Wang Weikai / Tu) 1 "Yan Sehu" formation February 13, Hubei Province, Wuhan City Shuangshuai.
这一天，武汉市创纪录地新增了13436个确诊患者，这个数字是前几天的六七倍。
A record 13,436 new patients were diagnosed in Wuhan on that day, six or seven times more than in the previous days.
值得留意的是，在这些新增确诊病例中，通过临床诊断确定的病例就占了92%，达到12364例。
It is worth noting that of these newly diagnosed cases, 92 per cent were clinically determined, amounting to 12,364 cases.
湖北省卫健委官网解释称，为与全国其他省份对外发布的病例诊断分类一致，从2月12日起，湖北省将临床诊断病例数纳入到确诊病例数进行公布。
Hubei Wei explained that from February 12, Hubei Province to the number of clinical diagnosis cases issued by the other provinces in line with the classification of the diagnosis issued by the outside world, Hubei Province into the number of confirmed cases published.
此前，对于武汉患者来说，核酸试剂检测是唯一的确诊标准。
Previously, for Wuhan patients, nucleic acid reagent testing is the only diagnostic criteria.
疫情暴发初期，核酸试剂供应量严重不足，使得很多疑似患者需要排队才能获得检测机会。
At the beginning of the outbreak, the supply of nucleic acid reagents was severely inadequate, making it necessary for many suspected patients to queue for testing.
因为诊断门槛过高，过去二十多天里，武汉未确诊患者形成了一个“堰塞湖”。
Because the diagnostic threshold is too high, in the past 20 days, Wuhan has not confirmed the formation of patients formed a "Yan Sehu."
1月29日，武汉市民袁华的CT检查报告显示“肺部有片状磨玻璃影”，这属于高度疑似患者的症状，她随即上报给所在的汉阳区五丰里社区，然后等待核酸检测。
On January 29, a CT scan of Wuhan city's Min Yuan Hua revealed "flaky ground glass shadows in the lungs," a symptom of a highly suspected patient, which she then reported to her local community of Wufeng Li in Hanyang district, where she waited for nucleic acid tests.
在这期间，她丈夫的CT报告也显示“肺部感染”。
During this time, her husband's CT report also showed a "lung infection."
但直到2月9日，他们才接到社区核酸检测的通知。
However, it was not until 9 February that they received notification of a community nucleic acid test.
2月12日、13日，夫妇两个分别拿到了核酸检测结果，显示是阳性，不过，幸运的是，两人都属于轻症。
On February 12 and February 13, the couple each received nucleic acid tests, which showed them to be positive. Fortunately, both were mild.
根据2月12日的官方信息，武汉市已有40家机构能开展新冠病毒核酸检测工作，日检测能力可达8000至10000人份。
According to official information on Feb. 12, 40 institutions in Wuhan city have been able to test nucleic acids for the new crown virus, with a daily detection capacity of 8,000 to 10,000 people.
广州金域医学检验集团是被官方指定的检测机构之一，该公司品牌部负责人向南方周末记者表示，1月31日前后，他们公司的检测能力每天只有1000人份左右。
The head of Guangzhou Jinyu Medical Examinations Group, one of the officially designated testing agencies, told Southern Weekend that the company's testing capability was about 1,000 people a day around January 31.
后来，公司不断增加人手和机器，现在可以达到每天3000人份。
Since then, the company has been increasing its staff and machines so that it can now serve 3,000 people a day.
但还有一些患者在网上求助，他们的双肺已经发白，临床症状非常明显，但由于核酸检测呈阴性，不能认定是确诊患者，无法进入到定点医院，导致错过了救治时机。
But there are also patients who seek help online and whose lungs have turned white with obvious clinical symptoms, but are unable to identify themselves as diagnosed due to a negative nucleic acid test, resulting in missed treatment opportunities.
2月初，李雯的母亲开始出现发热、乏力、呕吐的症状，但是因为做了核酸检测，呈现的是阴性，就不能认定是确诊患者，只能在附近的隔离点进行隔离。
At the beginning of February, Li Wen's mother began to develop symptoms of fever, fatigue and vomiting, but since she tested negative for nucleic acid tests, she could not be considered a confirmed patient and could only be isolated at a nearby isolation site.
直到2月12日下午4点，她们才迎来了“好消息”——母亲终于被临床“确诊”了，要从隔离点转送到火神山医院。
It was not until 4 pm on February 12 that the "good news" that their mother had finally been clinically "diagnosed" to be transferred from the quarantine point to Mount Fire Hospital.
但送往火神山医院的都是危重症患者，李雯母亲的双肺也已经全白。
But those sent to the Mount Huoshen Hospital were critically ill and Li Wen's mother's lungs were all white.
2月15日，武汉下起了大雪，已经收治1000名患者的火神山医院被白雪覆盖。
February 15, Wuhan, a heavy snow, has received 1000 patients have been admitted to the Mount Fire Hospital covered with snow.
（南方周末记者 王伟凯/图）一线的医生开始呼吁，应该将CT影像等临床诊断作为诊断标准。
Doctors on the front line (Southern Weekend reporter Wang Weikai / Tu) began calling for clinical diagnosis, such as CT images, to be used as diagnostic criteria.
2月5日，国家卫健委发布的《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊断方案》（试行第五版），才将CT影像结果纳入到了患者的临床诊断标准中。
On February 5, the National Health Commission issued the "Diagnostic Program for Pneumonia due to New Coronavirus Infection" (the fifth trial edition), which incorporated CT findings into the patient's clinical diagnostic criteria.
不过，这个新的诊断标准，并不适用于湖北地区。
However, the new diagnostic criteria do not apply to Hubei area.
直到2月12日，这个标准才在湖北地区适用。
It was not until February 12 that the standard was applied in Hubei province.
2月8日，正在建设中的雷神山医院。
On 8 February, the Raytheon Mountain Hospital was under construction.
（南方周末记者 王伟凯/图）2短缺的医疗资源疫情暴发初期，“一床难求”是制约“应收尽收”战役的另一大因素。
(Southern Weekend reporter Wang Weikai / Tu) 2 Lack of medical resources outbreak in the early stage, "one bed is difficult to find" another factor restricting the "receivable" campaign.
那时，网络求助的信息中，除了求助核酸检测之外，就是求助医院床位。
At that time, the network of help information, in addition to seeking nucleic acid testing, is to seek hospital beds.
那些医院人满为患、排队治疗、医生全天24小时不能休息的新闻，时至今日依然在很多人的脑海里记忆犹新。
The news that hospitals are overcrowded, queued up and doctors can't rest 24 hours a day is still fresh in the minds of many people today.
除了床位之外，当时医护人员和医疗资源也出现了严重不足。
In addition to beds, there was a serious shortage of medical personnel and resources.
2月17日，国家卫健委医政医管局副局长焦雅辉在接受央视《新闻1+1》采访解答武汉为何重症患者人数居高不下的问题时曾提到了这一点。
On February 17, Jiao Yahui, deputy director of the National Health and Wellbeing Hospital Authority, mentioned this in an interview with CCTV's "News 1 + 1" to find out why the number of seriously ill patients in Wuhan remains high.
她说，对于一家医院来说，一般情况下，10%的病房会是重症监护病房，在那么多的时间内，医院所有病房都变成了重症监护病房，用于抢救的呼吸机、监护仪等仪器和设备就不够，同时也没有那么多重症科的医生和护士。
For a hospital, 10% of the wards would normally be intensive-care units, she says. All the wards would be intensive-care wards for that amount of time, instruments and equipment for breathing machines, monitors, and so on would be inadequate, and there would be fewer doctors and nurses in intensive care units.
疫情初期，这些仅有的医疗资源也未能得到政府部门充分协调。
At the beginning of the epidemic, these few medical resources were not fully coordinated by the Government.
“没有资源可以调动”“没有全局部署”，这是陈鹏对最初“抗疫”时的印象。
"No resources to mobilize" "no global deployment," this is Chen Peng's initial "anti-epidemic" impression.
他是武汉市一名处级干部，在这场战役中，冲到了“抗疫”的前线。
He is a branch cadre in Wuhan city, in this campaign, rushed to the front line of "anti-epidemic."
他向南方周末记者回忆，当时上级疫控指挥部下的命令是要严控疫情，但让这些基层工作人员头疼的是，除了不知道患者情况外，作为区级政府，他们能调动的医疗资源也实在太少——能调配的只有武汉市红十字会医院这样的医院。
He told Southern Weekend reporter that the orders under the superior epidemic control headquarters were to contain the epidemic, but what bothered these grassroots workers was that they had too few medical resources to mobilize as district governments - only hospitals like Wuhan Red Cross Hospital could be deployed.
在这场“抗疫”中，缺的不仅是医院床位，还有隔离点。
In this "anti-epidemic", not only the lack of hospital beds, but also isolation points.
“应收尽收”，要对“四类人”进行排查、收治、隔离，分别是确诊患者、疑似患者、发热患者和密切接触者。
"Receivable," to "four categories of people" to conduct screening, treatment, isolation, respectively diagnosed patients, suspected patients, febrile patients and close contacts.
而根据规定，不同的人群，要收治在不同的场所。
According to the regulations, different groups of people have to be treated in different places.
疫情暴发初期，由于床位和隔离点少，武汉市对于疑似患者和轻症患者的要求是“居家隔离”，这个策略是无奈之举，但也是失败之举，虽然隔离了对外界传染的可能，但很多家属却在此期间被感染。
In the early days of the outbreak, the city of Wuhan demanded "home isolation" for suspected and light patients because of the small number of beds and quarantining sites. This strategy was a desperate but unsuccessful attempt to isolate the possibility of outside infection, but many family members were infected in the meantime.
不过，随着两万名各省援鄂医疗队员的陆续到来，以及两神山医院、11座方舱医院的投入使用，这一医疗资源紧张状况已经得到极大缓解。
However, with the arrival of 20,000 provincial medical personnel and the opening of two Shenshan hospitals and 11 square-cabin hospitals, the strain on medical resources has been greatly alleviated.
国家卫健委官网数据显示，截至2月17日24时，武汉市现有确诊病例37152例（含重症病例9222例），疑似病例1799例。
As of 2400 on February 17, there were 37,152 confirmed cases (including 9,222 severe cases) and 1,799 suspected cases in Wuhan, according to the National Health Officers' Network.
这意味着，要想保证所有的确诊和疑似患者都能得到收治，至少要准备38951个床位，“拐点”来临之前，这个数字会持续增大。
This means that at least 38,951 beds will be available to ensure that all diagnosed and suspected patients are admitted, a figure that will continue to grow until the "inflection point" approaches.
据武汉市卫健委官网透露，2月17日这一天，武汉共有45家定点医院，共开放床位19161张，使用18086张，剩余1452张。
Wuhan has 45 designated hospitals with 19,161 beds, 18,086 beds and 1,452 beds, the website said.
此外，12座“方舱医院”计划床位20461张，已开放床位7566张，已使用床位6971张。
In addition, the 12-bed Fangcao Hospital has 20,461 beds, 7,566 beds have been opened and 6,971 beds have been used.
从2月7日开始，武汉各高校改建学生宿舍之后，还可以释放出8800张隔离轻症病人的床位。
Since Feb. 7, Wuhan universities and colleges have rebuilt student dormitories, releasing 8,800 beds for patients suffering from mild isolation.
湖北省委党校、武汉市区的部分党校、部分宾馆等也被征调用于改造防疫隔离区。
Hubei Provincial Party School, Wuhan City District, some of the party schools, some guesthouses have also been used to reform the quarantine zone.
汉口火车站一家酒店被征收做为“防疫隔离区” （南方周末记者 王伟凯/图）3艰难的社区排查要做到“应收尽收”，社区排查是最重要的环节之一。
A hotel in Hankou Railway Station has been expropriated as a "quarantine zone" (Southern Weekend reporter Wang Weikai / Tu). Community screening is one of the most important aspects of a difficult community search to be "receivable."
“疑惑问题莫发慌，社区网格把你帮”。
"Doubt questions do not panic, the community grid help you."
这是在武汉街头常看到的一条标语，为了密切追踪疫情情况，武汉将各个社区进行网格式管理。
Wuhan is often seen in the streets of a slogan, in order to closely track the epidemic situation, Wuhan will be the network format management of the communities.
对于这座拥有一千多万人口、总面积达到8569.15平方公里的特大城市来说，“网格化”管理是一项极其庞杂、繁重的工作。
For a mega-city of more than 10 million people, with a total area of 8569.15 square kilometers, grid management is an extremely complex and burdensome task.
在一间社区委员会的办公室，南方周末记者看到，一位网格员的桌子上摆满了表格、统计单，记录的则是本社区所有人的流动信息和健康情况。
At the office of a community council, Southern Weekend reporter saw a grid worker's desk filled with forms, statistics, and records of the flow of information and health of all people in the community.
这位网格员告诉南方周末记者，为了及时跟踪社区人员的动态，他每天要给居民打几百个电话。
The grid man told Southern Weekend that he had to make hundreds of phone calls a day to keep track of developments in the community.
但事实上，光打电话是不够的，他们还需要上门走访，询问体温情况，帮助照顾一些孤寡老人或者身体不便者。
But in fact, just making phone calls is not enough. They also need to make house calls, ask about body temperature and help take care of lonely elderly or physically challenged people.
一位街道工作人员向南方周末记者介绍，社区在排查的时候，如果发现有居民出现发烧、咳嗽等症状，就会进行统计、备案，并会让这些居民去医院检查。
A street worker told Southern Weekend reporter that the community in the screening, if residents have fever, cough and other symptoms, will be counted, recorded, and these residents will be sent to the hospital for examination.
医院检查结果会上报到区里，区里再给街道反馈。
The results of the hospital examination are reported to the district, which in turn reports back to the street.
不过，这个看似简单的工作却很复杂。
This seemingly simple task, however, is complex.
比如，区里反馈的表格里，患者信息并没有具体区分是哪个街道的，他们就需要爬在表格里一个一个找，最终挑出自己社区的。
For example, in the feedback form in the district, patients' information did not specify which street they were on, so they had to crawl through the forms and eventually pick out their communities.
此外，有的患者信息只有名字和电话，不知道具体居住在哪里，各街道就需要逐个打电话，确定是否属于自己街道。
In addition, some patients only name and telephone information, do not know where the specific place to live, the streets will need to call one by one to determine whether it belongs to their own streets.
还有一些患者，登记的是户籍信息，但在另外一个街道居住，两个街道就需要进行沟通，确定由谁负责。
There are also patients who register household information but live on another street where two streets need to communicate to determine who is responsible.
“我们跟社区一样，每天也要打很多电话。
"Like the community, we make a lot of phone calls every day.
”这位街道工作人员向南方周末记者表示。
The street worker told Southern Weekend reporter.
找到自己街道的患者之后，街道会将患者情况以及床位再反馈给社区，由社区协助确诊、疑似患者前往医院和隔离点进行收治、隔离。
After finding patients on their own streets, the streets refer patients and beds back to the community, where they help diagnose and suspect patients go to hospitals and quarantine sites for treatment and isolation.
“有些确诊居民找不到床位，医院和街道就会让他们来找社区，等社区的通知，这些人就会到社区闹，让社区帮他们解决床位。
"When some diagnosed residents are unable to find beds, hospitals and streets refer them to their communities, where they go to fight and have their beds provided by the community," he said.
但我们哪有权力调配床位，只能等区里和街道的安排。
But we do not have the right to allocate beds, can only wait for district and street arrangements.
”一位社区书记向南方周末记者表示，“我们跟他们接触，也很害怕，也怕感染啊。
"We were afraid of contacting them and we were afraid of infection," a community secretary told Southern Weekend reporter.
”这似乎形成了一个恶性循环，社区工作者需要上门去排查，但他们本身就是密切接触者，一些居民并不愿意让他们上门。
This seems to create a vicious circle in which community workers have to come to the door, but they are themselves close contacts and some residents are reluctant to let them in.
“别说上门去量体温了，有时我们连楼都进不去。
"Don't say go and take your temperature. Sometimes we can't even get in the building.
”上述社区书记向南方周末记者感叹。
The community secretary lamented to Southern Weekend reporter.
武汉的小区要求每户每三天只能出一次门。
The Wuhan community requires that every household can only go out once every three days.
这位书记的社区还要帮助居民购买蔬菜等生活用品，买回来之后，有的居民不敢跟工作人员接触，就从窗户上吊下来一个篮子，让工作人员将蔬菜等放到篮子里；有的则放到一楼门口，让业主自己来拿。
The secretary's community also helps residents buy household goods such as vegetables. When they come back, some residents do not dare to contact the staff, so they hang a basket from the window and ask the staff to put vegetables in baskets.
江岸区铭新社区的“网格员”们正在核对居民的健康信息。
"Grid Makers" in the Mingxin district of Jiangxi are checking residents' health information.
（南方周末记者 王伟凯/图）4人手紧缺缺人，是武汉社区工作人员共同的感受。
(Southern Weekend reporter Wang Weikai / Tu) 4 Human resources shortage and shortage of people, Wuhan community workers are the common feeling.
以武汉硚口区某社区为例，该社区共有六千多人口，社区工作人员共有11人，这意味着一个工作人员要应对600左右的居民。
Take the example of a community of more than 6,000 people and a total of 11 community workers in Wuhan's Zhangkou District, which means that one staff member has to cope with about 600 residents.
这样的人员配比，是武汉这座特大城市比较普遍的现象，有的社区一个“网格员”要负责的居民甚至超过了1000人。
Such a ratio of people, Wuhan is a relatively common phenomenon of this mega-city, some communities have a "grid" to be responsible for more than 1,000 residents.
这个社区后来因为有疑似患者自缢身亡，被武汉市纪检监察机关查处，社区负责人受到党内警告处分。
The community was later found guilty of constriction by the Wuhan disciplinary inspection and supervision authorities, and the community leader was given a warning by the party.
该社区负责人对于辖区内出现这种惨剧深感痛心，但在接受南方周末记者采访时，她也深感无力。
The head of the community was deeply saddened by the tragedy in her district, but also felt powerless in an interview with Southern Weekend reporters.
疫情暴发初期，该社区工作人员遭遇重大“减员”，一半人员因为身体不适不能参加工作，还有一人因为担心被感染选择了辞职，能够“上阵”的只有五六个人。
In the early days of the outbreak, community workers suffered significant "attrition," with half unable to work because of ill health, and only five or six able to "step in" for fear of infection, choosing to resign.
社区与村委会相似，并不属于政府机构。
Communities are similar to village councils and are not part of a government agency.
此外，通过对多个社区采访，南方周末记者了解到，他们的工资并不高，书记、主任的工资税后在3000元以上，普通职工则只有2000多元。
In addition, through interviews with various communities, Southern Weekend reporters learned that their salaries are not high, the secretary, director's salary after 3000 yuan, ordinary workers only 2000 yuan.
为了补足社区人手，根据《长江日报》2月11日的报道，武汉市先后组织市直机关党员干部、市属国企干部职工、市属高校教师职工，共计1.6万余名干部职工，下沉到疫情较重的社区，统一编入街道社区工作队，协助开展“四类人员”集中隔离集中收治等工作。
To complement the community, Wuhan has organized cadres from municipal organs, cadres and cadres of municipal state-owned enterprises, and faculty and staff of municipal universities, totalling more than 16,000 cadres and workers.
同时，各城区统筹区直单位和街道（乡镇）共计1.7万余名党员干部，全覆盖联系包保社区（村）。
At the same time, more than 17,000 Party members and cadres live in integrated units and streets (townships) in all urban areas, covering all the affiliated communities (villages).
这意味着，整个市区共计有3.4万名干部职工下沉到社区参加工作。
This means that a total of 34,000 people in urban areas are sinking into the community to work.
以江岸区某中型街道为例，共有50名左右的干部职工下沉到这个街道。
Take a mid-sized street in Jiangan district for example, a total of about 50 cadres and staff sank into the street.
该街道共有5个社区，每个社区约可以分到10人。
There are five communities on the street, each with approximately 10 members.
不过，据多个街道和社区工作人员介绍，这些下沉的干部职工主要是协助社区做好社区出入口的管理，如测量体温、登记信息等，并非跟着社区工作人员直接与居民接触，参与到更具体的排查工作中。
However, according to several street and community workers, these sinking cadres mainly assist the community in the management of community entrances and exits, such as temperature measurements, registration information, etc., and do not engage directly with residents in more specific screening exercises.
除了人手短缺，排查方法也影响着排查结果。
In addition to the shortage of staff, screening methods also affect the results.
上述社区书记向南方周末记者介绍，目前上门排查和电话排查，主要是询问体温情况。
The above-mentioned community secretary told Southern Weekend reporter that at present door-to-door inspection and telephone screening, mainly asked about the temperature situation.
但是，在武汉市确实出现了一些“无症状”患者。
However, some asymptomatic patients did appear in Wuhan.
他担心，仅仅通过询问体温情况，并不能准确地弄清楚居民的健康情况。
He fears that merely asking about body temperature does not provide an accurate picture of the health of the population.
“早期的情况更糟，医院床位少，人又多，有些居民刻意隐瞒自己的体温，不愿意去医院检查；现在医院人少了，隐瞒的居民也少了很多。
"The situation was much worse in the early days, with fewer hospital beds and more people, with some residents deliberately concealing their body temperature and unwilling to go to the hospital for tests.
”这位书记向南方周末记者表示。
The secretary told Southern Weekend reporter.
2月10日，武汉曾经公布过一个“底数”，但是很快就遭到网友质疑。
Wuhan announced a "bottom number" on February 10, but it was soon questioned by netizens.
当晚，在湖北省疫情防控工作新闻发布会上，时任武汉市委书记马国强说，截止到2月9日，武汉户数排查的百分比已达到98.6%，人数排查百分比达到99%，并争取在2月11日完成所有疑似患者的检测清零。
By February 9, Wuhan had reached 98.6 percent of households and 99 percent of people had been screened, and was aiming to have all suspected patients tested zero by February 11, said Ma Guoqiang, then secretary of the Wuhan Municipal Party, at a news conference in Hubei province.
消息出来之后，一些武汉本地网友开始调侃，自己属于那没有被排查到的1%。
After the news came out, some local Wuhan netizens began to joke that they belong to that has not been screened out of 1%.
2月11日之后，武汉市其实仍然存在着不少的疑似患者。
After Feb. 11, there are still many suspected patients in Wuhan city.
即便是已被确诊的病人，也还没有即刻获得床位。
Even for those who have been diagnosed, beds are not immediately available.
2月14日，硚口区82岁的沈奶奶终于得到集贤里社区卫生服务中心的通知，她可以被收治到武汉市红十字会医院。
On February 14, Shen, an 82-year-old woman from Zhangkou District, was finally notified by the Jixian Li Community Health Center that she could be admitted to Wuhan Red Cross Hospital.
此时，距离她被确诊已经过去了5天。
By this time, five days had passed since her diagnosis.
但是，由于脑干出血，沈奶奶无法正常行走，这让她错过了指挥部派来社区的接送车辆，她只能让儿子开车将自己送到武汉市红十字会医院，开始等待具体的床位安排。
However, due to a brain stem hemorrhage, Shen was unable to walk normally, which caused her to miss the transport vehicles sent to her community by the command post. She had to ask her son to drive herself to Wuhan Red Cross Hospital and wait for a specific bed arrangement.
2月17日，武汉市“集中拉网式大排查”开始，“不漏一户，不漏一人”是这次大排查的要求。
February 17, Wuhan City "concentrated pull net type screening" began, "do not leak a house, do not leak a person" is the requirements of this major screening.
这一天，南方周末记者多次拨打此前曾经采访过的社区、街道工作人员的电话，均未能打通。
On this day, Southern Weekend reporter made a number of calls to the community, street workers who had previously been interviewed, were unable to get through.
不过，根据武汉本地媒体的报道，一大早，他们就开始去挨家挨户地查，挨家挨户地问。
But early in the morning they began to go door-to-door, door-to-door, according to local Wuhan media reports.
有不愿意配合、不量体温或者暂时外出的居民，他们就登记下来，过一段时间后再去做工作。
Residents who do not want to cooperate, do not measure their body temperature or are temporarily away from home are registered and go back to work after a while.
外界对于此次排查的结果，充满了期待。
Outside the results of this screening, full of expectations.
（应受访者要求，文中陈鹏、袁华、李雯为化名。
(At the request of interviewees, Chen Peng, Yuan Hua and Li Wen were given pseudonyms.
南方周末记者马肃平对本文亦有贡献。
Southern Weekend reporter Ma Su Ping also contributed to this article.
）。
).
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉“应收尽收”难在何处？。
Wuhan "receivable received" difficult where?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "武汉“应收尽收”难在何处？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
