武汉“团战”。
Wuhan "League War."
贺勋。
Ho Hoon.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲武汉骑手老计说：明天太阳会照常升起。
Wuhan jockeys old plan: tomorrow the sun will rise as usual.
（受访者供图）经此一役，杨静、华浩、李大双、曹新志、胡启等人都明白了一个道理：这是一场“团战”，那些拯救人们于危难中的英雄，也需要被守护。
After this battle, Yang Jing, Hua Hao, Li Dashong, Cao Xinzhi and Hu Qi all understood that this was a "League War" and that heroes who saved people in distress also needed to be guarded.
在他们背后的支撑，是城市新基础设施在疫情的特殊时期，所展现的社会责任与担当。
The support behind them is the social responsibility and responsibility of the new urban infrastructure in the special period of the epidemic.
“现在青菜很紧缺，基本上顾客抢菜的时候，我们在路上骑车去店里的路上；等在店里忙得差不多时，菜也基本卖没了。
"There's a shortage of vegetables these days, and basically when customers are trying to grab it, we ride our bikes along the way to the store; when we're almost busy, the food is almost gone.
”留守武汉保证蔬菜供应的员工，自己却吃不上一口新鲜蔬菜。
Wuhan workers, who are left to fend for themselves, can't eat a mouthful of fresh vegetables.
全文共5675字，阅读大约需要13分钟驰援武汉的护士长李岩有两次刻骨铭心的记忆。
The full text of 5675 words, reading about 13 minutes to help Wuhan head nurse Li Yan has two memorable memories.
第一次是因为一款黄色防护服。
The first time it was a yellow suit.
李岩身高不到一米六，却分到了L号。
Li Yan was less than one metre and six meters tall, but he got an L number.
她很快感受到濒死般的窒息，心跳急速加快，无法吸入空气。
She soon felt near-death suffocation, her heart racing, unable to breathe in the air.
李岩迅速扑向窗口，把防护服“使劲往下抻”，露出了口罩。
Li Yan quickly pounced on the window, "stretching down" the suit, revealing the mask.
空气重新进入肺部，李岩不敢再把过大的防护服掩住口鼻。
As the air re-entered the lungs, Li Yan dared not cover his mouth and nose with oversized protective clothing.
第二次是在一位女病患出院时。
The second was when a female patient was discharged from hospital.
她寡言少语，在向李岩表达谢意时，才透露了家庭情况：她的父母均因感染新冠肺炎去世，她爱人也在另一所医院治疗，孩子不得不暂时寄养在别处。
She was reticent to express her gratitude to Li Yan before revealing the family situation: her parents had died of pneumonia and her wife was being treated in another hospital, and the child had to be temporarily placed elsewhere.
“特别特别感谢你们给了我新生，我一定好好活下去。
"Special thanks to you for giving me a new life, and I will live well.
我不知道我爱人会怎样，但我一定为了孩子，好好活着。
I do not know what my love will be, but I will live well for my children.
”女患者说。
'said the woman.
李岩落下泪来。
Li Yan shed tears.
李岩支援的是武汉市第七医院，该院被指定为发热患者定点诊疗医院。
Li Yan supports Wuhan Seventh Hospital, designated as a designated hospital for fever sufferers.
武汉的新冠肺炎疫情，让人们看到了一线医护人员的努力，在政府之外，大量企业在后方支援，尤其互联网行业在“战疫”中发挥着越来越重要的作用。
Wuhan's new crown pneumonia epidemic, people see the efforts of front-line health care workers, in addition to the government, a large number of enterprises in the rear support, especially the Internet industry in the "epidemic" play an increasingly important role.
据中国社科院钟宏武教授研究团队统计，截至2020年2月17日，共有3413家企业为抗疫捐赠100万元以上，累计捐赠276.9亿元，相当于2019年上半年武汉市GDP的3.7%，其中平均每家企业捐赠约811万元。
As of February 17, 2020, 3,413 enterprises had donated more than one million yuan to fight epidemic diseases, with a total donation of 27.69 billion yuan, equivalent to 3.7 percent of Wuhan city's GDP in the first half of 2019, with an average donation of about 8.11 million yuan from each enterprise.
基金、物资、资金都是企业传统的捐赠方式。
Funds, materials and capital are the traditional donation methods of enterprises.
此外，随着移动互联网和本地服务业的兴起，以美团、滴滴等公司为代表的“城市新基础设施”，在封城之下的武汉，发挥了重要作用。
Moreover, with the rise of the mobile Internet and local services, the "new urban infrastructure," represented by companies such as the US Mission and Droplet, has played an important role in Wuhan, under the siege.
美团作为连接线上线下的本地生活服务平台，通过“捐服务”的方式，发挥平台优势。
As the local living service platform under the connection line, the US Mission gives full play to the advantages of the platform through "donating service."
以帮助医护人员为核心，解决医护人员就餐、出行等难题，为医疗机构开通“绿色服务通道”配送食材等。
To help medical personnel as the core, to solve medical staff dining, travel and other difficult issues, for medical institutions to open "green service channels" distribution materials.
同时，为了保障武汉市民的日常生鲜、生活必需品的购买，美团骑手成为这座城市的“逆行者”，美团买菜业务保障了市民对生鲜食材的需求，而免费的心理咨询服务缓解武汉的焦虑。
At the same time, in order to ensure the daily life of the citizens of Wuhan, the American rider became the "backwalker" of the city, and the purchase of vegetables guaranteed the public's demand for fresh food materials, while the free psychological consultation service alleviated anxiety in Wuhan.
美团一系列举措，均是围绕解决武汉当下的“痛点”出发。
A series of measures by the U. S. Mission, are aimed at resolving Wuhan's immediate "pain point."
水电煤之外，“本地生活服务”这一新城市基础设施的高效运转，离不开其背后数以千计的一线人员，是乐观、勇气和奉献精神以及使命感驱动着他们。
Beyond hydroelectric coal, the "local services" - a new urban infrastructure that operates efficiently without the thousands of frontline personnel behind it - is driven by optimism, courage, and dedication, as well as a sense of mission.
▲ 2020年2月11日，武汉骑手在外卖站点内等待开工。
On February 11, 2020, Wuhan riders in the take-out site waiting to start.
（受访者供图）1“护医”行动在武汉，医护人员忙得连难过的时间都没有。
2007-9-24 16: 16 [hide] 1.Medical personnel are so busy in Wuhan that they don't even have time to feel bad.
武汉市第七医院第一病区主任付学东对媒体表示，所有医护人员都在日以继夜地工作，一日三餐都随机进行。
Fu Xuedong, director of the No. 1 area of Wuhan seventh hospital, told the media that all medical staff worked day and night, with three meals served at random.
李岩所在的河北省援鄂抗疫医疗队抵达之前，武汉市第七医院的医护人员轮值压力到达峰值，“从排班上就能看出他们有多累”。
Before Li Yan's medical team arrived in Hubei province to combat the epidemic, the shift pressure on medical staff at Wuhan's Seventh Hospital peaked, "as can be seen from the shift schedule."
即便是现在，每个护士也要看护6-8个病人，其中多为重症病患，“我们既是护士、又是家属、还是护工和保洁员”。
Even now, every nurse cares for six to eight patients, most of whom are seriously ill. "We are nurses, family members, caregivers and cleaners."
面对有腹泻表现的病患，李岩等护士一天要为他们擦洗5次。
When faced with diarrhea, nurses like Li Yan scrub them five times a day.
医护人员每天至少工作8小时，吃饭、休息时间是1个小时，除去穿脱防护服的时间，休息时间所剩无几。
The medical staff worked at least eight hours a day, had one hour for meals and rest, except for the time spent in protective clothing, and had little time for rest.
“大家可能就利用这时间到休息室里喝杯水。
"People may use the time to go into the lounge for a drink of water.
”李岩说，都不敢多喝，但一定得喝一口。
"said Li Yan." I dare not drink more, but I must have a drink.
因为穿着防护服说话基本靠“吼”，很费嗓子。
Because wearing protective clothing to speak basic rely on "roar", very difficult voice.
和饼干、蛋黄派相比，方便面曾是医护人员唯一的“热餐”。
Instant noodles were once the only "hot meal" for healthcare professionals compared to biscuits and egg yolks.
2020年除夕，武汉医护人员吃方便面的画面刺痛了很多国人的心。
On New Year's Eve 2020, the picture of Wuhan medical staff eating instant noodles stung the hearts of many Chinese people.
美团人看到了这一场景，随后美团外卖就紧急联合真功夫、豪客来、香他她煲仔饭、老乡鸡等平台上多个商家，为医护人员免费送餐。
The group saw the scene, and then the American Troupe took away the emergency joint real kung fu, luxury guests, incense She cooked rice, Lao Xiang chicken platform on a number of businesses, free of charge for medical staff.
仅真功夫汉口火车站一家门店，就日供1000份餐食，留守员工仅有5、6位，人均工作量是平时的四倍。
Just one shop at Hankou railway station provides 1,000 meals a day, leaving only five or six employees, four times the usual workload per person.
免费送餐第一天，是大年初三。
Free meal on the first day, it is New Year's Day.
真功夫门店副经理杨静从早七点到晚七点，和同事准时做出1000人次的餐食，自己忙得一整天没时间吃饭。
Yang Jing, vice-manager of Kongfu Shop, and colleagues from 7: 00 am to 7: 00 pm, and co-workers on time to make 1000 meals, their busy all day long no time to eat.
晚上回到家后，她泡了一份方便面当晚餐“（绿叶）青菜好贵，要十三块钱一斤。
When she got home at night, she made herself an instant noodle for dinner. "Green vegetables are expensive.
”杨静没舍得。
Yang Jing did not give up.
比平时更大的出餐量，对货品供应链是巨大的考验。
More meals than usual are a huge test of the supply chain.
一天，送菜的货车坏在途中，耽误了两天。
One day, the delivery truck broke down on the way and lost two days.
杨静和员工们把自己工作餐的食材省下来，首先保障医护人员的每日餐食。
Yang Jing and her staff cut down on the ingredients for their meals, and ensured that the medical staff received their daily meals first.
他们只能把过期的青菜炒着吃，“能省一点是一点”，杨静说。
They can only cook the expired vegetables, "to save a little bit," Yang Jing said.
真功夫等美团平台的爱心商家做好餐食后，美团外卖的骑手会分批运到武汉的十余家定点医院。
True kungfu and so on the United States Mission platform of the love business after the meal, the United States Mission to take away riders will be batch shipped to Wuhan more than 10 designated hospitals.
美团送餐司机华浩每天要向汉阳医院和武昌医院送去200份餐食，医生们见到华浩齐声说“谢谢”，“有饭吃了”。
Each day, Huahao, the American food carrier, sends 200 meals to Hanyang Hospital and Wuchang Hospital. The doctors see Huahao saying "Thank you" and "Have a meal."
▲ 美团把餐食送到后，医护人员在排队取餐（受访者供图）在非常时期，一些医院不仅缺医疗物资，还会面临生活物资的断供。
Medical staff were queuing up to collect their meals after the arrival of the food. During the emergency period, some hospitals not only ran short of medical supplies, but also faced a shortage of supplies.
2020年1月30日晚，武汉大学人民医院东院区食堂经理李大双拨打美团快驴的400电话求助：“封城了，到处买不到食材，医院食堂后厨里的库存仅够吃两天了，能不能赶快帮帮忙？我们这里需要蔬菜、冻品和米面粮油！”据李大双介绍，该院每天用餐的医护人员和患者有2000人次。
On the night of January 30, 2020, Li Dashuang, manager of the cafeteria of Wuhan University's People's Hospital, dialed 400 calls for help from a fast donkey. "We've closed the city, we can't buy food anywhere.
随着一月下旬医院收治病人的增加，食材库存迅速告急。
With the increase in hospital admissions in late January, stocks of raw materials quickly ran out of steam.
美团快驴进货连夜为该院调度人、货、车，沟通各部门打通障碍。
American Express Donkeys stock overnight for the hospital dispatcher, cargo, vehicles, communication departments to open barriers.
1月31日下午4点，武大人民医院东院区订购的100多件总重达1.7吨的食材货品配送完成。
At 4: 00 p.m. on January 31, more than 100 items weighing 1.7 tons were ordered and distributed in the East Campus of the WU People's Hospital.
全院的吃饭问题解决了，李大双和美团都松了一口气。
The problem of feeding the whole hospital has been solved, Li Dashuang and the U. S. Mission are relieved.
▲ 快驴进货为医疗机构开通食材配送绿色通道（受访者供图）配送热饭菜的同时，美团还给武汉医护人员免费配送水果和下午茶。
Quick Donkey Purchase for medical institutions to open a green channel for food distribution (interviewees supply charts), the United States also free distribution of fruits and afternoon tea to Wuhan medical personnel.
配送的外卖小哥曹新志说，他看懂了取餐医生眼神里的感动——因为闪有泪光。
Cao Xinzhi, a delivery toddler, said he understood the touch in the eyes of the doctor who had taken the meal - for there were tears.
一次送餐后，一群医生给曹新志鞠了一躬，把他急坏了，“我说千万别这样，这样子就打脸了，你们才是真正辛苦了。
After a meal, a group of doctors bowed to Cao Xinzhi and made him very anxious. "I said don't do that.
”自1月30日开始，美团联合百果园，每天为武汉市汉阳医院、中医院汉阳分院等十余个重点医院和各地支援医疗队，免费赠送超过600份水果。
Since Jan. 30, the U.S. group has banded together 100 orchards and donated more than 600 fruits free of charge to more than a dozen key hospitals, including Wuhan Hanyang Hospital and Hanyang Branch Hospital of the Chinese Hospital, as well as support medical teams throughout the country.
“在水果的选择中，我们第一想到的是营养、安全、方便和好吃，我们选择的水果主要有车厘子、沙糖桔、进口香蕉等，既方便医护人员食用又有营养保障。
"In the choice of fruit, we are thinking of nutrition, safety, convenience and good taste. The main fruits we choose are carrots, oranges and imported bananas, which are convenient for health-care workers and nutritionally safe.
”百果园三方渠道管理部经理匡士婷说。
"100 orchard tripartite channel management manager Quanshting said.
曹新志对医护工作强度的理解，源自他用私家车接送护士长上下班时看到的真实状态，“整个人特别憔悴，这是其一。
Cao Xinzhi's understanding of the intensity of medical care stems from the real situation he saw when he used his private car to take the head nurse to and from work.
第二，天气这么冷，我看她们衣服都湿透了，脸上那汗，帽子都湿透了。
Second, it was so cold that I could see their clothes wet, their faces sweaty and their hats drenched.
她们面对着死亡，精神高度紧张。
They are facing death and are in a high state of mental tension.
”截至2月21日，美团医护紧急专供餐项目，已联合真功夫、探鱼、喜茶、百果园等多家品牌商家，为武汉市定点发热门诊医院以及上海、广东、空军军医大、河南等支援湖北医疗团，累计送出餐品、茶饮、水果49625份。
As of February 21, the US Mission Medical Emergency Feeding Program had combined genuine kungfu, fish detection, tea and 100 orchards to support Hubei medical delegations in designated fever clinics in Wuhan city, as well as in Shanghai, Guangdong, the Air Force Medical University and Henan, bringing a total of 49,625 meals, tea drinks and fruit.
全国驰援武汉的医疗队越来越多，而城内公共交通全面停运，医护人员如何便利出行成为新的难题。
There are more and more medical teams in Wuhan, and the public transportation in the city has stopped completely. How to facilitate the medical staff to travel has become a new problem.
一般而言，武汉当地医院会安排支援团队入驻附近酒店，以金银潭医院为例，安排入驻的酒店距离医院近2公里，步行约需20-30分钟，使用共享单车是个省时省力的办法，但医护人员发现“外地手机号扫描无法开锁”。
Generally speaking, Wuhan local hospitals will arrange support teams to stay in nearby hotels. Taking Gold and Silver Pool Hospital as an example, the hotel will be located nearly 2 km away from the hospital. It will take about 20-30 minutes to walk.
1月29日，有医生在朋友圈发出求助信息。
On 29 January, a doctor sent a message of help in a circle of friends.
当时武汉金银潭医院周边只有10辆单车，但需求量预计在120辆左右。
There were only 10 bicycles around the Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, but demand was expected to be about 120.
美团得知后，不到24小时完成单车调度，并向多家单位发放了10052张免费月卡，两天后，30万美团单车又并宣布在湖北地区免费使用。
The delegation learned, less than 24 hours to complete the bicycle dispatch, and issued a number of units 10052 free monthly cards, two days later, 300,000 American Tour bicycles and announced free use in Hubei region.
“我们虽然不能像医护人员一样在一线救人，也要做点力所能及的事情。
"We can't do what we can to save people on the front line, just like paramedics.
”美团单车的调度师傅胡启是武汉人，除了保证医护人员有车用，还会每天对车把、坐垫、刹车、铃铛、坐垫调节器等全车的每个部位进行彻底消毒。
Wuhan-based dispatcher Hu Qichi, a bicycle dispatcher, will conduct daily thorough disinfection of every part of the vehicle, including handlebars, cushions, brakes, bells and seat controllers, in addition to ensuring that medical staff have access to cars.
▲ 调度师傅在消毒单车（受访者供图）美团大数据显示，在武汉“封城”以后，单车用户平均骑行距离为1.7公里，较之前增加60%，平均骑行时长约19分钟，较平时翻倍，这一定程度上说明了武汉的医护和防疫人员正在使用单车进行更长距离的通勤；此外，近来在湖北骑行的外地用户平均占比增长近一倍。
According to big figures from the Disinfecting Cycling Mission in Wuhan, cyclists have averaged 1.7 km, up 60% since the city was closed, averaging about 19 minutes of cycling, twice as long as usual, suggesting that medical and epidemic prevention workers in Wuhan are using bicycles for longer commutes.
其中不少人为外地援鄂的一线防疫人员。
Many of them are frontline immunization workers in the field.
为了向白衣战士表达敬意，美团公益基金会捐赠2亿元设立全国医护人员支持关怀专项。
To pay tribute to the white warriors, the American Legion Foundation donated 200 million yuan to set up a nationwide medical support program.
截至2月19日，美团公益基金会已完成对山西、江西、安徽、江苏等13省区市援鄂医疗队的定向捐赠——对已派出的4299位成员账户发放5000元慰问金。
By February 19, the foundation had completed targeted donations to medical teams in 13 provinces and municipalities, including Shanxi, Jiangxi, Anhui and Jiangsu, and distributed 5,000 yuan in compensation to 4,299 members' accounts.
河南、湖南、广东、福建等省也在同步推进中。
Henan, Hunan, Guangdong, Fujian and other provinces are also advancing simultaneously.
经此一役，杨静、华浩、李大双、曹新志、胡启等人都明白了一个道理：这是一场“团战”，那些拯救人们于危难中的英雄，也需要被守护。
After this battle, Yang Jing, Hua Hao, Li Da Shuang, Cao Xinzhi, Hu Qi and others all understand that this is a "regimental war" and that those heroes who save people in distress also need to be guarded.
在他们背后的支撑，是美团作为城市新基础设施，在疫情的特殊时期，所展现的社会责任与担当。
Behind them lies the social responsibility and responsibility of the US Mission as a new urban infrastructure during the special period of the epidemic.
2满足“刚需”在这场前所未有的疫情面前，有500万人离开了风暴中心武汉，也有一个人不顾一切返回来。
Satisfy Just Need Five million people have left Wuhan, the epicentre of the storm, in the face of an unprecedented outbreak, and one has returned desperate.
96年出生的李丰杰本来已经回湖北孝感过春节，但在家看到武汉疫情新闻的他坐立难安，“各地的人都来支援武汉。
Li Fengjie, born in 1996, had already returned to Hubei province for the Spring Festival, but seeing news of the Wuhan outbreak at home made him sit tight.
我觉得这件事跟我有关系，我不应该继续在家里。
I think it has something to do with me. I shouldn't stay at home any longer.
”李丰杰是美团外卖武汉一个站点的骑士长，他想回武汉，与队友一起为武汉人送一份热呼呼的饭。
Li Fengjie, a knight at an American take-out site in Wuhan, wants to go back to Wuhan with his teammates to deliver a hot meal to the Wuhan people.
当时湖北通行道路关闭，火车、客车均已停运。
Hubei then closed the road, trains, buses have been stopped.
于是李丰杰陪家人过完年，初一早上7点，吃过早餐后他就开始徒步向武汉进发，身上只带了手机和一瓶水。
So Li Fengjie with his family over the New Year, the first morning at 7 o'clock, after breakfast he began to walk to Wuhan, only with a mobile phone and a bottle of water.
从天亮一直走到天黑，他没有停下休息。
From dawn to dusk, he did not stop to rest.
进入武汉时，设卡的人告诉他“进了武汉就不能出来了”，李丰杰没有犹豫。
When entering Wuhan, the Shigeka told him "into Wuhan can not come out," Li Fengjie did not hesitate.
他最终花了近12个小时，步行50公里，抵达武汉配送的一线。
It took him nearly 12 hours to walk 50 kilometers to reach the Wuhan distribution line.
新年里，穿梭在武汉的美团骑手们开始接到越来越多“奇怪”的订单。
On the New Year's Day, American riders shuttling through Wuhan began to receive more and more "strange" orders.
有一单写着“妈妈做的饭，给爸爸送去，我爸爸是前线医生，谢谢小哥了。
There was a note that said, "Mom cooked food, sent to father, my father is the front-line doctor, thank you brother."
”接单的美团骑手老计泪目了，把这个故事发到微博上，获得近千人点赞。
TYPICAL USE: The American rider, with tears in his eyes, posted the story on Weibo, where nearly a thousand people praised it.
买药、买体温计、买口罩、买酒精、买菜等，老计接到用户订单的需求都是最紧俏的物资，但他总是尽力满足。
Purchasing medicine, buying a thermometer, buying a mask, buying alcohol, buying vegetables, etc., are some of the most sought-after items in demand, but he always tries to satisfy them.
武汉街头的酒精和84消毒液基本都断货。
Wuhan streets of alcohol and 84 disinfectant are basically out of stock.
遇到有药店良心价限量卖口罩，他就排队买两包。
He queued up to buy two packs when there was a limited supply of face masks on the drugstore conscience.
发现少量药店还能买到体温计，老计本来想全买光分给顾客，但一转念，只买了四个。
Discover a few drugstores still can buy thermometer, old plan originally wanted to buy all buy light to divide customer, but on second thought, bought only four.
▲ 骑手老计在药店内取货（受访者供图）地方跑的多了，他熟悉各种生活必需品的情况，同时在微博上实时更新武汉周围药店口罩、消毒水、药品和蔬菜的情况。
The jockey keeps track of his wares at the drugstore, familiarizes himself with the necessities of life, and keeps up-to-date on microblogs about drugstore masks, disinfectants, medicines and vegetables around Wuhan.
他每天在城市里的所见所闻都成了“刚需”——人们需要知道武汉怎样了，在家隔离的武汉人也需要知道外面是什么样。
What he sees and hears every day in the city becomes "just need" - people need to know what Wuhan is doing, and Wuhan, who is isolated at home, also needs to know what is going on outside.
耿直的老计就在微博上用图片记录看到的一切、用文字写下真实故事，有笑有泪、有苦有乐，在他名为@计六一六的微博里，大家看到，武汉不是一座空城，每户房、每扇窗背后都有人。
In his microblog, which is called @ 616, you can see that Wuhan is not an empty city, and that every house and window has people behind it.
老计的粉丝很快从40个涨到6万。
Old-fashioned fans soon rose from 40 to 60,000.
有人给他加油、有人叮嘱他小心、有人给他送口罩，有人留言求助——武汉封城第十天，老计收到武汉女孩小青的私信，她怀疑自己感染了，每天以泪洗面、不敢跟父母说，于是在家自我隔离的她请求老计帮忙买药。
Wuhan 10 days after the old plan received a personal letter from Wuhan girl Xiaoqing, she suspected that she was infected with the face of tears every day, dare not tell their parents, so self-isolation at home she asked the old man to help buy medicine.
老计不仅很快给她送去了药，还把微博网友的温暖留言发给小青，颇为治愈。
Old plan not only sent her medicine quickly, but also Weibo netizen warm message to Xiaoqing, quite cured.
心理咨询师分析小青的状况源自焦虑和恐慌。
Psychologists analyze Xiaoqing's condition from anxiety and panic.
这些恐惧会带来明显的病理症状，“陡然的心悸、手抖，不能呼吸等比较严重的状态；或者我发烧、嗓子痛，开始担心会不会真的得病，得病了我能否被救治，现在有没有足够的床位，或者说我要不要去医院等……”心理咨询师唐琼分析并模拟了患者心理，小青的恐慌并不是个例，武汉人正承受着较大的心理压力。
"These fears can lead to obvious pathologic symptoms," sudden palpitations, shaking hands, inability to breathe, etc. "Or I have a fever, sore throat, I began to worry about whether I would really get sick, whether I get treatment, whether I have enough beds, or whether I should go to the hospital.
唐琼是“幸福谋方”的全职咨询师，虽然面对面沟通效果更好，但疫情的现实并不允许。
Ms. Tang is a full-time consultant to Happiness Advisors, and while face-to-face communication works better, the reality of the epidemic does not allow it.
而互联网的优势在于不受地域限制，能帮助更多需要的人。
The advantage of the Internet is that it is not geographically limited and can help more people in need.
2020年1月27日，美团联合幸福谋方、壹点灵、北京怡然心语等多家机构发起的免费在线心理援助行动上线。
January 27, 2020, the United States Mission happiness planning, a point Ling, Beijing Yilan Xin language, and many other agencies launched free online psychological assistance operations.
应激性的焦虑障碍占据一大半求助者，主要体现在市民和医护人员的家属身上。
Stress anxiety disorder occupies more than half of the patients, mainly in the community and the family of medical personnel.
唐琼建议民众试着让生活变得有序、有意义，不把精力过度集中于不确定性。
Ms. Downey advises people to try to make their lives orderly and meaningful, and not focus too much on uncertainty.
“因为我们对当下最有帮助的，就是把自己的日子过好。
"Because the best thing we can do for the moment is to make our life better.
”咨询师孔焕云提醒人们“保持好心态非常重要”，因为负面情绪会增大压力、降低人体免疫力。
Consultant Kong Huanyun reminds people that "it's important to stay in a good frame of mind" because negative emotions can increase stress and lower immunity.
老计送完单后，笃定地告诉小青：“你会好的、天会好的、武汉也会好的。
After the old plan to send the bill, firmly told Xiaoqing: "You will be fine, the day will be good, Wuhan will be well.
”林宇的父母不这么认为，他们认为武汉太危险，让儿子赶紧回来。
"Lin's parents didn't think so. They thought Wuhan was too dangerous and told their son to come back quickly.
林宇没听父母的，“如果我走了，这些人的生活都没法维持了。
Lin didn't listen to his parents. "If I go away, these people can't support themselves.
”他是美团买菜三原中央公园站门店的留守员工，他口中的“这些人”指的是站点附近3、4个社区、数万人的普通住户。
"He is a stay-at-home employee at the Central Park Station store, where he says" these people "refers to the average household of tens of thousands of people in three or four communities near the site.
因为站点主要提供生鲜菜品，很快吸引了社区“叔叔阿姨”一大批忠实客户。
Because the site mainly provides fresh dishes, quickly attracted a large number of community "uncles and aunts" loyal customers.
美团承诺疫情期间不断供，“顾客阿姨”毫不吝啬地向林宇表达感激之情。
The U. S. group promised to continue to supply during the epidemic, "customer aunt" to express gratitude to Lin Yu without stint.
在武汉，美团买菜20多个站点全部有人坚守，哪怕路上各种封堵，也会竭力保证武汉居民吃上蔬菜水果。
Wuhan, the United States Mission to buy vegetables more than 20 sites are adhered to, even if the road blocked, will also try to ensure that Wuhan residents eat vegetables and fruits.
▲门店开门营业之前（图 / 姜海峰）由于人手紧缺，美团买菜华中仓储服务中心的的徐浩，初二就紧急回到武汉，他每天待在仓库，晚上睡在车里，平时就吃饺子、泡面、八宝粥等干粮。
Before the store opened for business (photo / Jiang Hai Feng), Xu Hao of the Huazhong Warehousing Service Center returned to Wuhan on February 2 because of the shortage of staff. He stayed in the warehouse every day and slept in the car at night.
美团买菜汉口棉花站的刘迪兰也是天天饺子、面条。
The American group buys the dish Hankou cotton station Liu Dilan also is the daily dumpling, the noodles.
“现在青菜很紧缺，基本上顾客抢菜的时候，我们在路上骑车去店里的路上；等在店里忙得差不多时，菜也基本卖没了。
"There's a shortage of vegetables these days, and basically when customers are trying to grab it, we ride our bikes along the way to the store; when we're almost busy, the food is almost gone.
”留守武汉保证蔬菜供应的员工，自己却吃不上一口新鲜蔬菜。
Wuhan workers, who are left to fend for themselves, can't eat a mouthful of fresh vegetables.
3城市新基础设施每个人的生活都在这段时间经历着巨大变化——就像突然停电后启用备用电源的状态，所有的需求都在较低限度维持着。
New Urban Infrastructures Everyone's lives have changed dramatically during this time - like when a power backup is turned on after a sudden blackout, and all the demand is kept low.
这些变化都是暂时的，更多温润而长久的改变发生在细微处：老计能分辨出以前顾客的“谢谢”与如今“谢谢”的区别，前者是顾客本身的修养，后者是发自内心的真实感激和对生活的感恩。
These changes are temporary, and more gentle and long-lasting changes occur in the microcosm: old schemes can tell the difference between a former customer's "thank you", which is a customer's own accomplishment, and a "thank you", a genuine gratitude from the heart and gratitude for life.
李丰杰以前认为人们瞧不起快递员，现在他发现大家称呼他们为维系城市呼吸的“摆渡人”。
Mr Li, who previously thought people looked down on couriers, now finds himself called the "ferrymen" who keep the city breathing.
1月21日到2月20日美团外卖在全国订单备注里，“武汉”出现了7035次，“医院”出现了60585次，“注意”出现了233494次，“感谢”出现了275847次，“加油”出现了29072次，“辛苦”出现了835412次。
From Jan. 21 to Feb. 20, U.S. group take-out sales nationwide recorded 7,035 times in Wuhan, 60,585 times in hospitals, 233,494 times in attention, 275,847 times in gratitude, 29,072 times in refueling and 835,412 times in trouble.
▲ “医生护士辛苦了！小哥，谢谢。
"Doctor nurse hard! Brother, thank you.
”（受访者供图）无数只言片语的感谢，汇总成为骑手坚守的理由，也给了他们前行的勇气。
A thousand words of thanks add up to the reason the riders stick to it and give them the courage to move on.
紧缺的防护物资和消毒用品，让骑手成为帮用户跑10余家药店买物资的超人，让他们在定点收治医院卸货时忘记了害怕，让他们成为这个城市不可或缺的人，公司的专业与理性承托住了员工的满腔道义和热血行为。
The shortage of protective equipment and disinfectant supplies makes the rider a superman who helps users run more than a dozen pharmacies and lets them forget their fear when unloading their cargo at a designated hospital, making them an indispensable part of the city.
疫情风暴之下，以美团为代表的本地生活服务平台，正在成为具有准公共产品属性的基础设施，有人称之为“城市新基础设施”。
Under the storm, the local living service platform, represented by the US Mission, is becoming an infrastructure with quasi-public product attributes, which some people call "new urban infrastructure."
它有效地改善了公众生活品质，践行了美团“帮大家吃得更好，生活更好”的使命。
It has been effective in improving the quality of life of the public and fulfilling the mission of the US Mission to "help everyone eat better and live better."
非常态时期，美团通过提供基础民生保障，将业务生态链上的紧密利益相关者拉入新基础设施时代，为本地生活用户提供不可替代的社会价值。
During the abnormal period, by providing basic livelihood security, the US Mission has drawn the close stakeholders in the business ecological chain into the new infrastructure era, providing irreplaceable social value to local life users.
西方学者研究发现，城市社区生活空间质量在很大程度上是由社区服务设施决定的。
Western scholars have found that the quality of urban community living space is largely determined by community service facilities.
本地生活服务如果不能做到社会责任先行，终会被城市社区所摒弃。
Local services will eventually be abandoned by urban communities if they do not lead in terms of social responsibility.
当他们表现出真心、正义、无畏和同情时，再麻木的人也能够感知，再漫长的冬夜也能熬过。
When they show sincerity, justice, fearlessness and compassion, even the most numb can sense that they can survive the long winter night.
“外卖老哥”老计的总结是，送什么都不重要，外卖小哥的存在是种安慰。
"Take out" old plan of the summary is that nothing important to send, take out the existence of younger brother is a comfort.
一位美团买菜的武汉员工谈及选择时表示：“都害怕，我也害怕，但是总要有人往前面走一步。
"I'm afraid, I'm afraid, but someone has to take a step forward," said one Wuhan employee who bought vegetables for the group.
”一个人往前是孤胆英雄，一群人一起往前，就是“生活在继续”。
A man is a brave hero forward, a group of people together, is "living on."
（专题）。
(Special topics).
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉“团战”。
Wuhan "League War."
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "武汉“团战”";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Wuhan & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "这是一场“团战”，那些拯救人们于危难中的英雄，也需要被守护。
var msg _ desc = & quot; it was a "regiment war" in which heroes who saved people in distress also needed to be guarded.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
