逝者|武昌医院院长刘智明的最后一月。
Liu Zhiming, director of Wuchang Hospital, last month.
王伟凯。
Wang Weikai.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲这是2月20日拍摄的悬挂在武汉市武昌医院门口的刘智明院长的照片。
This is February 20 shot in Wuhan City Wuchang Hospital in front of Dean Liu Zhiming photos.
（新华社记者 熊琦/图）全文共3204字，阅读大约需要8分钟。
The full text is 3204 words and takes about eight minutes to read.
“刚开始，医院还没有全面提升到二级防护，刘院长去检查工作的时候，是按照一级防护穿戴的，现在回想，可能是那个时候感染的。
"At first, the hospital had not been fully upgraded to secondary protection. When Liu went to inspect the work, she was wearing primary protective clothing.
”洪毅向南方周末记者回忆。
Hong Yi told Southern Weekend reporter.
在救治刘智明的过程中，让洪毅印象最深的一句话，是刘院长说，“我死了都不要给我插管。
Liu Zhiming in the treatment process, let Hong Yi impressed the most one sentence, is Liu said, "I die do not give me intubation.
”本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 王伟凯责任编辑 | 张玥2020年1月24日是除夕，也是武汉“封城”的第二天，武汉武昌医院院长刘智明从那天起，就再也没能离开医院的病床。
"This article began at Southern Weekend without authorization to reproduce yesterday's New Year's Eve, the day after Wuhan's" city ban, "and Liu Zhiming, director of Wuhan Wuchang Hospital, has not been able to leave hospital beds since that day.
很多同事仍不敢相信，医院治愈的408名新冠肺炎患者中，不包括自己的院长。
Many colleagues still can't believe that of the 408 cases of nosocomial pneumonia cured in hospitals, not including their own deans.
2月18日10时54分，在与病毒抗争了26天后，年仅51岁的武昌医院院长刘智明与世长辞，他也是第一个牺牲在一线的医院院长。
At 1054 hours on February 18, after 26 days of fighting the virus, Liu Zhiming, 51, director of Wuchang Hospital, died. He was also the first hospital director to die on the front line.
1暗流2019年12月，新冠肺炎还没有惊醒这座城市，武昌医院正沉浸在第一期工程封顶的喜悦中。
1 Undercurrent In December 2019, the new crown pneumonia has not awakened the city, Wuchang Hospital is immersed in the joy of the first phase of the project.
当时，这座“三级乙等”综合性医院正在改造升级，西区即将东移，再在东边的空地上起几座高楼。
At that time, the "level 3 B" general hospital is being upgraded, the Western District is about to move eastward, and a few high-rise buildings in the eastern vacant lot.
十二月，他们完成了一期工程封顶，第二期和第三期的设计图纸也刚拿到手。
In December, they completed the first phase of the project and just got the design drawings for the second and third phases.
他们计划用三年时间，将医院打造成拥有1500张床位的多科室综合型“三级甲等”医院。
They plan to turn the hospital into a 1, 500-bed, multi-section, "level-3" hospital over a three-year period.
喜悦之中，阴影逐渐聚拢。
The shadows gathered in joy.
2019年12月1日，是《柳叶刀》论文中武汉首例新冠肺炎病例发病的日子。
December 1, 2019, is the "Lancet" paper Wuhan's first case of the onset of new crown pneumonia.
一个月后，2020年1月3日，武汉卫健委通报当日出现44例“不明原因病毒性肺炎”，但“未见明显人传人和医护感染”。
A month later, on January 3, 2020, Wuhan Health Committee reported 44 cases of "unspecified viral pneumonia" on the same day, but "no significant human-to-human or medical infection was observed."
之后的1月6日至18日，武汉卫健委均通报当日无新增确诊。
From January 6 to 18, Wuhan Health Commission reported no new diagnosis on that day.
武昌医院纪委书记洪毅推测，武昌医院院长刘智明就是在这段时间里被感染的。
Wu Chang Hospital disciplinary committee secretary Hong Yi speculated that Wu Chang hospital director Liu Zhiming was infected during this period.
一月，武昌医院已经开始接诊发热患者，呼吸消化内科主任王珣回忆，当时官方还未宣布“人传人”，但医院就诊人数激增，他们意识到病毒的传染性可能很强。
In January, Wuchang Hospital began treating febrile patients and breathing and digesting its director, Wang Zedong, recalled a surge in hospital visits, who realized the virus could be highly contagious.
为了接收这些病人，他们专门把重症监护室腾出来，隔离发热患者。
In order to receive these patients, they specially vacated intensive care unit, isolation febrile patients.
但在武昌医院，人们还是低估了病毒。
But at Wuchang Hospital, people underestimated the virus.
刘智明经常去病房和门诊转，“刚开始，医院还没有全面提升到二级防护，刘院长去检查工作的时候，是按照一级防护穿戴的，现在回想，可能是那个时候感染的。
"At first, the hospital had not been fully upgraded to secondary protection. When Liu went to check-up, she was wearing primary protective clothing. In retrospect, she was probably infected at that time.
”洪毅向南方周末记者回忆。
Hong Yi told Southern Weekend reporter.
一级防护适用于普通门诊、急诊和病房，二级防护适用于传染病隔离病房，三级防护等级最高。
Primary protection applies to general out-patient clinics, emergency rooms and wards, secondary protection to infectious disease isolation wards, the highest level of protection.
一个月后的2月19日，中国疾控中心发布《新冠肺炎流行病学特征分析报告》，共有3019名医务人员感染了新型冠状病毒（1716名确诊），其中5人死亡。
A month later, on February 19, the China CDC released the Report on Epidemiological Characterization of Newly Coronavirus Infection among 3,019 medical personnel (1,716 confirmed), five of whom died.
当晚，北京地坛医院感染二科主任医师蒋荣猛在接受包括《南方周末》在内的媒体采访时说，医务人员感染的情况大部分发生在1月30日以前，之后比较少。
In an interview with the media, including Southern Weekend, Jiang Rong-jen, director of Infection Division II at Beijing Ditan Hospital, said most cases of infection among medical staff occurred before January 30 and fewer afterwards.
全国各地到武汉和湖北支援的医疗队，目前还没有发生感染情况。
There have been no cases of infection among medical teams from all over the country to Wuhan and Hubei.
2显形1月20日，是疫情在公告数据中暴发的起点。
Apparent Jan. 20, the beginning of the outbreak of the outbreak in the announcement data.
武汉市卫健委通报两日内新增136例确诊。
Wuhan city health committee reported 136 new cases of diagnosis within two days.
次日下午4点，院长刘智明接到通知，武昌医院被划为武汉的第二批7家发热门诊定点医院之一，负责收治新冠肺炎的疑似和确诊病例。
At 4: 00 p.m. the next day, President Liu Zhiming was informed that Wuchang Hospital was designated as one of the second batch of seven fever outpatient clinics in Wuhan, which is responsible for treating suspected and confirmed cases of Newcomial Pneumonia.
武昌医院副院长黄国付向包括《南方周末》在内的媒体回忆，下午4点接到命令后，4点半刘智明就召开了医院职能部门动员会，5点又召开临床科室动员会。
Huang Guofu, vice-president of Wuchang Hospital, told the media, including Southern Weekend, that after receiving the order at 4: 30 pm, Liu Zhiming called a meeting of the functional departments of the hospital and a meeting of the mobilization committee of the clinical departments at 5 o'clock.
接到通知的两小时后，医院就全面进入了战斗状态。
After two hours' notice, the hospital was fully operational.
也就是在这一天的晚上，刘智明意识到自己可能被感染了。
It was on the evening of that day that Liu Zhiming realized that he might be infected.
1月21日是黄国付值班的日子。
January 21 is the day when Huang pays his duty.
连轴转了一天，临近午夜零点，他正准备在办公室和衣睡下，突然有人在敲门，刘智明站在门外，一脸诧异地问：“今天不是该我值班吗？”当天下午开会的时候，黄国付注意到刘智明打了一个寒颤。
He was about to fall asleep in his office and clothes when someone knocked at the door. Liu Zhiming stood outside the door and said with surprise, "Isn't it my duty today?" When the meeting was held that afternoon, Huang noticed Liu Zhiming shudder.
在那之前，他知道刘智明有些不舒服，建议他去测个体温。
Before that, he knew that Liu Zhiming was not feeling well and suggested that he take a temperature test.
测量结果显示，体温超过了37度，黄国付对他说：“你不舒服，就不要坚持了，回去休息吧，明天还要一整天。
"If you are not feeling well, don't insist on it. Go back for a rest and have a whole day tomorrow," Huang said.
”也许那一天，刘智明就意识到自己被感染的可能性很大。
Perhaps that day, Liu Zhiming realized that he had a good chance of getting infected.
黄国付想起，当晚，走廊上有动静，可能是刘智明给自己做了CT检测，还打了针。
Huang Guofu remembered that night, there was a movement in the corridor, Liu Zhiming may have done himself a CT test, but also shot.
但这些，他都没有说。
But he didn't say anything about it.
天亮之后，他开始投入到两天的医院改造工作中，主要是腾出病房、培训医护人员、改造病区。
After daybreak, he began to devote two days of hospital renovation, mainly to vacate wards, train medical staff and reform the sick areas.
根据通知要求，武昌医院要提供504张床位，这意味着要开放东西两区的所有床位。
According to the notice, Wuchang Hospital will provide 504 beds, which means opening all beds in the east and west districts.
当时武昌医院有499位住院病人，包括重症，他们都需要转院。
There were 499 inpatients in Wuchang Hospital at that time, including severe cases, who needed to be transferred to hospital.
比如，肾内科原本有60多位做血液透析的病人，22日全部转去了天佑医院，七天后，天佑医院也被划入定点医院，他们被再度转移。
For example, more than 60 patients in the department of renal dialysis were transferred to God-You Hospital on the 22nd. Seven days later, Tianyou Hospital was admitted to the designated hospital and they were transferred again.
医护人员也不够。
Medical staff are also inadequate.
原本，武昌医院的呼吸内科只有7名医生，重症科6名。
Originally, the Department of Respiratory Medicine in Wuchang Hospital had only 7 doctors and 6 intensive care units.
为了全员到位，刘智明对医护人员做了两场疫情培训，全院1034名职工，2/3都开始工作，一些非呼吸内科和重症科的医护人员也上了前线。
In order to be fully staffed, Liu Zhiming trained medical staff on two occasions. Two-thirds of the hospital's 1,034 staff began to work, and some non-respiratory and intensive care staff were also on the front line.
医院也要进行传染病区改造，做“三区两通道”。
Hospitals should also carry out the transformation of infectious disease areas, do "three zones, two corridors."
“三区”是清洁区、污染区和半污染区，为了隔离病人和易感病人划出来。
The "Three Areas" are clean areas, polluted areas and semi-polluted areas, designed to isolate patients and susceptible patients.
“两通道”是医护人员通道和病人通道。
"Two channels" is the passage for medical staff and patients.
刘智明知道隔离病毒难，专门请来武汉市疾控中心的专家来指导改建。
Liu Zhiming knows the isolation virus is difficult, specially invited Wuhan CDC experts to guide the reconstruction.
“刚开始的时候，我们心理上很害怕，没经历过这么大的疫情，但是刘院长一直在鼓励我们，还请来了最权威的专家给我们改造。
"At first, we were psychologically scared that we hadn't experienced such a big epidemic, but Dean Liu has been encouraging us and has brought in the most authoritative experts to reform us.
”呼吸消化内科主任王珣回忆。
"Respiratory digestion medicine director Wang Zheng recalls.
3抢救刘智明住院，是在1月24日除夕的下午。
Rescue Liu Zhiming hospitalized on January 24, the afternoon of New Year's Eve.
当天王珣还在医院遇到过他，刘智明说，自己不太舒服，有点发烧，但不太严重，可能只是普通状况。
That day Wang also met him in the hospital, Liu Zhiming said that he was not comfortable, a little feverish, but not too serious, may be just ordinary conditions.
王珣没想到，当天下午刘院长就住院了，而且很快因为呼吸困难，进了重症监护室。
Wang did not expect that that afternoon Liu hospital, and soon because of respiratory difficulties, into the intensive care unit.
住院后，王珣和同事们去看他，刘智明问了好几次，是否有同事被感染，他担心自己传染同事。
After hospitalization, Wang and his colleagues went to see him, Liu Zhiming asked several times if any of his colleagues were infected, he worried about infecting his colleagues.
当王珣告诉他自己没事的时候，刘智明表现出发自内心的喜悦。
When Wang told him that he was okay, Liu Zhiming showed his heartfelt joy.
武昌医院纪委书记洪毅说，目前为止武昌医院共有26名医护人员感染，感染者中，除了已经牺牲的刘智明和护士柳帆外，都是轻症。
Hong Yi, the disciplinary secretary of Wuchang Hospital, said there were 26 cases so far, with the exception of Liu Zhiming and Liu Fan, a nurse who had already been killed.
在救治刘智明的过程中，让洪毅印象最深的一句话是，刘院长说，“我死了都不要给我插管。
In the process of treating Liu Zhiming, let Hong Yi impress the most is, Liu said, "I die do not give me intubation.
”做插管手术，要把气管切开。
"Intubation surgery involves cutting the trachea.
新冠肺炎感染的是呼吸道，刘智明担心，一旦切开气管，就可能在病房里出现气溶胶，杀伤力大。
New crown pneumonia is infected respiratory tract, Liu Zhiming fears, once cut trachea, can appear in ward aerosol, lethality is big.
而当时武昌医院的重症监护室，不是专门抢救呼吸道传染病的负压病房，做手术的同事很容易被传染。
However, the intensive care unit of Wuchang Hospital was not a special negative pressure ward for respiratory tract infections.
实际上，根据2月5日发布的《新型冠状病毒肺炎诊疗方案（试行第五版 修正版）》，对于重症和危重症患者，气管插管是一个可行的呼吸支持方法。
In fact, according to the February 5th edition of the New Coronavirus Pneumonia Diagnosis and Treatment Programme (trial version 5), trachea intubation is a viable method of respiratory support for patients with severe and critical illnesses.
1月27日，刘智明住院三天后，来武昌医院支援的空军军医大学医疗队为他做了核酸检测。
January 27, Liu Zhiming hospitalized for three days, came to Wuchang Hospital to support the Air Force Medical University medical team did nucleic acid tests for him.
医疗队队长把检测结果拿给黄国付看，显示弱阳性。
The leader of the medical team showed Huang Guofu the result of the test.
黄国付要求再测，结果是阳性。
Huang Guofu asked for another test and the result was positive.
他坚持再测的原因是，在同事们的印象里，刘智明身体很好，一米八的高个子，爱打篮球，很健康，他免疫力强，不应该被感染。
The reason why he insisted on retesting was that his colleagues had the impression that Liu was in good health, a tall man eight by one, loved playing basketball, was healthy, and that his immunity should not be infected.
刘智明的妻子蔡利萍是武汉市第三医院光谷院区ICU的护士长。
Liu's wife, Cai Liping, is the head nurse of the ICU in Guanggu courtyard of Wuhan Third Hospital.
那段时间，刘智明的情况不好，蔡利萍一直想去照顾他，但都被他拒绝了。
At that time, Liu Zhiming's situation is not good, Cai Liping has been trying to take care of him, but he refused.
那时，蔡利萍所在的医院也成了定点医院，工作繁重。
At that time, Cai Liping's hospital also became a designated hospital, heavy work.
在微信聊天记录中，蔡利萍说：“老公，你呼吸不好一定要打呼吸！这样舒服一点！”“不要害怕，你要是害怕，我去陪你好吗？”“你每天中午两点给我打电话，不然我不放心，晚上也不接电话。
In her microphone chat, Cai Liping said, "Husband, you must breathe if you can't breathe well!" "Don't be afraid. If you're afraid, can I go with you?" "You call me at two o'clock every day or I won't answer the phone at night.
”刘智明回复：“昨天折腾了一晚上，怎么搞氧合上不来，我以为我要死了，缺氧，烦躁，全身虚汗。
"Liu Zhiming replied:" Yesterday after a rough night, how to make oxygen close, I thought I was going to die, lack of oxygen, irritability, body sweat.
今早打了呼吸机，好多了！”2月，他的病情一度好转。
He had a ventilator this morning, much better! "In February, his condition improved for a while.
2月10日，是他51岁的生日，洪毅等同事们送给他一个代表鼠年的小老鼠玩偶作为生日礼物。
On February 10, his 51st birthday, Hong Yi and his colleagues gave him a mouse doll representing the Year of the Rat as a birthday gift.
重症科主任还对洪毅说，院长的情况有好转，不用戴氧气面罩了，能自己吃饭，不用喂食，可能要出院了。
The director of the intensive care unit also told Hong Yi that the director of the hospital was in a better condition, did not need oxygen masks, can eat their own meals, do not need to feed, may be discharged.
当时，刘智明也很乐观，他把头发剃了，还发了一条朋友圈。
At the time, Liu Zhiming was also very optimistic. He shaved his hair and sent out a circle of friends.
洪毅当时跟刘智明开玩笑，“我说你不要老是躺着。
Hongyi joked with Liu Zhiming at the time. "I said you shouldn't always lie down.
他说，我也不想躺，但是一动就喘气。
'I don't want to lie down, either, 'he says,' but I gasp.
”回忆到这个场景，洪毅哽咽了。
The memory of the scene brought a lump to his throat.
2月13日，刘智明的病情突然加重，第二天，转入同济医院中法院区的重症监护室，进行氧气插管。
On February 13, Liu Zhiming suddenly became seriously ill. The next day, he was transferred to the intensive care unit of the court district of Tongji Hospital for oxygen intubation.
但插管两天多后，病情没有明显缓解。
However, after more than two days of intubation, no significant relief.
2月17日，医院给他进行了ECMO（俗称“人工肺”）最后的抢救，但未起效。
On February 17, the hospital gave him ECMO (commonly known as "artificial lung") last resort, but failed to work.
2020年2月18日10:54，他的心脏停止了跳动。
On 18 February 2020, at 10: 54, his heart stopped beating.
第二天晚上，武昌医院消化内科护士长徐瑞杰发了一条朋友圈：“总不时张望电梯口，希望像往常一样，一抬头您从电梯出来，面带微笑地问我：病区都还好吗？”这一天，武昌医院504张床位上，正救治着431名新冠肺炎患者。
The next night, Xu Ruijie, the head nurse of digestion at Wuchang Hospital, sent out a circle of friends: "Always look over the elevator and, as usual, look up and ask me with a smile: Is the area all right?"
王珣记得，有一天，一位经常在医院住院的老病人拉着她说：“那个个子很高的男的，是不是你们院长？他人可好了，前几天，我在医院门口忘了带伞，他还把伞借给了我。
One day, an old patient who was often hospitalized in hospital pulled her and said, "Is that a tall man, is that your dean? He is OK. The other day, I forgot to bring my umbrella in the doorway of the hospital and he lent me his umbrella.
”2月18日下午，刘智明的遗体被送往殡仪馆，当黑色的车子开出同济医院时，身穿一身蓝色防护服的妻子跟在车后，拍着后备箱，哭着，追了很远。
"On the afternoon of February 18, Liu's body was taken to the funeral home, and when the black car drove out of Tongji Hospital, his wife, dressed in a blue suit, followed the car, patted the trunk, cried, and chased it for a long time.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
逝者|武昌医院院长刘智明的最后一月。
Liu Zhiming, director of Wuchang Hospital, last month.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "逝者|武昌医院院长刘智明的最后一月";。
var msg _ title = & quot; last month and last month at & quot; by & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
