口罩的 “非常 ”加法：日产量或将两亿 ，仍会短缺还是饱和？。
The "unusual" addition to a mask: Will output be 200 million a day, or will it still be short or saturated?
贺佳雯。
Eugenia Ho.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲2020年2月18日，呼和浩特一家公司的员工正在赶制口罩。
On February 18, 2020, employees of a company in Hohhot were rushing to make masks.
（新华社/图）全文共5770字，阅读大约需要8分钟。
The full text is 5,770 words and takes about eight minutes to read.
虽然是在生产口罩，杨洋自己家里的口罩还是春节前储备下来的。
Although in the production of masks, Yang Yang's own family mask or the Spring Festival before the storage down.
自从政府监管以来，日夜都有人驻厂巡逻，“厂里一只口罩都飞不出去”。
Since the government regulation, day and night, the factory is manned patrol, "the factory can not fly out of a mask."
广西一个地级市工信局官员称：“（口罩生产商）缺原材料还是缺人统一报上来，政府想办法，该高价买回来就买，该补贴就补。
"There is still a shortage of raw materials, and the government is trying to get it back at a higher price," said an official at Guangxi's provincial industrial letter bureau.
”雷利民算了一笔账，预估到2月底，每天能生产各类口罩近2亿个，有望在一定程度上缓解口罩的短缺焦虑。
Rilemin has calculated that by the end of February, nearly 200 million face masks could be produced each day, which is expected to alleviate some of the anxiety about the mask shortage.
中国医疗器械行业协会人士表示，政府允许企业拥有一个合理的利润空间，在每一批生产的成本附加10%-30%的利润。
The Chinese Medical Device Industry Association says the government allows companies a reasonable margin to add 10% to 30% to the cost of each production.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 贺佳雯南方周末实习生 任欢欣责任编辑 | 何海宁“你那儿有口罩吗？”谁曾想在2020年开端，这句话会成为中国人之间，比“吃了吗”更常见的打招呼方式。
This article began at Southern Weekend without authorization to reprint & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
在突如其来的新冠肺炎疫情中，“一罩难求”成了这场大灾难的真实写照。
In the sudden outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia, "a cover hard to find" has become the true image of the catastrophe.
2020年2月14日，是杨洋领着工人加班的第20天。
February 14, 2020, Yang Yang led the workers to work 20 days.
这是湖北一家医用口罩企业，厂里储备的原材料撑不过三天了，作为一线生产负责人，杨洋一晚上打了“上百个电话”，想从外省采购原材料，无果。
As the head of production, Yang Yang made "hundreds of calls" overnight to source raw materials from outside the province, to no avail.
口罩悲喜剧在不同时空中上演。
Mask tragedy comedies play out in the air at different times.
此前一天，几乎24小时没合眼的江涛总算看到了“五菱牌”口罩批量出货，日产量达200万个。
The day before, the nearly 24-hour-old Jiang Tao finally saw the "five diamond" mask bulk delivery, a daily output of 2 million.
在此起彼伏的跨界转产企业中，汽车厂商上汽通用五菱也加入其中，江涛所在的公司为其联合供应商。
General Wuling, the auto maker, is also a joint supplier of one after another's cross-border conversions.
被疫情骤然推开的社会复杂画卷中，口罩市场成为非常之地。
The market for masks has become an unusual place in the complex picture of a society suddenly pushed aside by the epidemic.
有人四处求索，有人行诈骗诡计；一些濒死企业起死回生，一些企业寻机转产；一些电商多次援助医疗物资，一些电商涉嫌蹭热点；多地政府强力管控生产，而有些地方则闹出了截留医疗物资的闹剧。
Some are looking for jobs; some are dying; others are looking for jobs; some are helping with medical supplies; some are suspected of getting hot spots; many are clamouring for control of production, while others have resorted to the hoax of withholding medical supplies.
美好与丑恶，在一方口罩之中交织上演。
Beautiful and ugly, in one side of the mask interlace performance.
目前，在一线的医院、在复工的企业，依然传出口罩短缺的声音。
At present, in the front-line hospitals, in the resumption of work enterprises, there is still a shortage of masks voice.
而在市场与管控之间，供需数字到底几何，骤然提产之后，市场之路何往，至今还是未知数。
Between the market and regulation, the number of supply and demand after all geometry, sudden increase in production, the road to the market is still unknown.
1口罩商供不应求 朋友圈高价贩卖杨洋是在大年二十九那天接到当地政府收购、调配口罩的通知。
1 Mask dealers should not demand friends circle high price Yang Yang was bought by the local government on the 29th, the notice of deployment of masks.
但工人早已放假回家，一时难以召集。
But the workers were already home on holiday, unable to summon them.
直到正月初二才以3倍工资，召回不到三分之一的工人，勉强开工。
Not until the second day of the first month to triple wages, recalled less than a third of workers, barely started.
1月29日，国务院紧急通知地方政府，迅速组织口罩生产商复工复产，并提出由国务院联防联控机制物资保障组统一管理和调拨口罩，向重点企业派遣特派员。
On January 29, the State Council issued an urgent notice to the local government to promptly organize the mask manufacturer to resume work and put forward the unified management and allocation of masks by the Material Security Section of the Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism of the State Council, and the dispatch of special commissioners to key enterprises.
工信部数据显示，截至2月13日，已有60名驻企特派员赴13个省份的41家重点企业驻厂。
As of February 13, 60 resident coordinators had visited 41 key enterprises in 13 provinces, according to the Ministry of Industry and Communications.
生产、发运到收货的全过程形成可控、可追踪的闭环，让大批口罩及时送往武汉。
Production, shipping to the whole process of receiving goods into a controllable, traceable loop, so that a large number of masks timely sent to Wuhan.
在淘宝、京东上的许多商家回应南方周末记者，大量已被拍下的口罩被征用，所有口罩优先供应武汉，推迟发货。
In Taobao, Jingdong many businesses responded to Southern Weekend reporters, a large number of masks have been photographed were requisitioned, all priority supply Wuhan, delayed delivery.
虽然是在生产口罩，杨洋自己家里的口罩还是春节前储备下来的。
Although in the production of masks, Yang Yang's own family mask or the Spring Festival before the storage down.
自从政府监管以来，日夜都有人驻厂巡逻，“厂里一只口罩都飞不出去”。
Since the government regulation, day and night, the factory is manned patrol, "the factory can not fly out of a mask."
一面是政府紧急调拨口罩，口罩商供不应求，另一面是朋友圈口罩高价贩卖。
One side is the government emergency redeployment mask, mask dealers in short supply, on the other side of friends high-priced mask sales.
家里的口罩不够用了，2月1日，杨洋在行业朋友里问了一圈，都说没货。
Not enough masks at home, February 1, Yang Yang in the industry friends asked a circle, said no goods.
微信朋友圈里，反而是以前卖衣服的、卖面膜的、做海外代购的在卖口罩。
Weixin friends circle, on the contrary, is the former sales of clothing, mask sales, do overseas agent in the sale of masks.
一个散装的一次性口罩价位从四五元到十几元，甚至数十元的都有，而且价格一天一个样儿，“跟股票似的”往上窜。
The price of a disposable respirator in bulk ranges from $45 to $10, or even tens of dollars, and the price goes up "like a stock" day by day.
实际上，杨洋心里清楚，一个口罩的成本不过两三毛钱，即使有疫情时期人工、物流费用提高等因素，也不至于溢价至此。
In fact, Yang Yang knows that the cost of a mask is no more than two or three cents, even if there is an epidemic of labor, logistics costs, and other factors, there is no premium here.
口罩生产需证照齐全，医用口罩还需有医疗器械的产品注册证、生产许可证。
Mask production needs to be fully licensed, medical masks also need to have medical equipment product registration certificate, production license.
南方周末记者发现，不少朋友圈高价贩卖的医用口罩，医疗器械生产许可证是打过码的，看不出厂家等关键信息；还有一些各种国家、各种品牌的民用口罩采取预售的方式。
Southern Weekend reporter found that many friends high-priced sales of medical masks, medical equipment production license is played code, such as the key information manufacturers, there are a variety of countries, brands of civilian masks in the way of pre-sale.
买家付款后，往往很长时间无法发货。
Purchasers are often unable to deliver goods for long periods after payment.
乱象不仅在小规模的微商，一些电商平台也无法保证到货。
Not only in small-scale micro-business chaos, some electrical business platform can not guarantee the arrival of goods.
2月14日，中国消费者协会就宣布对电商平台海豚家的“砍单”行为进行调查。
On February 14, the China Consumers' Association announced an investigation into the "beheading" of the dolphin's home, an electrical and commercial platform.
不少消费者均向南方周末记者反映，海豚家原本不卖口罩，借疫情之际，称有口罩销售，诱导消费者下载其App、注册下单、套取消费者个人信息。
Many consumers reported to Southern Weekend reporter, dolphin home originally did not sell masks, because of the epidemic, said that the sale of masks, induced consumers to download their App, register orders, and consumer personal information.
更有甚者还以“运费”等名义扣除消费者费用。
What is more, consumers' fees are deducted under the name of "freight."
同一天，海豚家通过微博回应称，口罩订单已全部退款。
On the same day, the Dolphin family responded via Weibo that orders for masks had been fully refunded.
但对于“竹篮打水一场空”的消费者而言，无疑浪费了时间和精力。
But for consumers who are "in vain," there is no doubt that time and energy are wasted.
南方周末记者致电海豚家询问，截至发稿未获回复。
Southern Weekend reporter phoned dolphin home to ask, as of the manuscript did not receive a reply.
阿里巴巴、拼多多等电商平台上也出现多家店铺销售假冒伪劣口罩的事件。
Alibaba, more than a lot of electrical business platform also appear on the sale of fake and shoddy masks.
截至2月4日，阿里巴巴称已截留、删除可疑问题口罩57万件，15家违规口罩类店铺被永久清退。
As of February 4, Alibaba said 570,000 suspected problem masks had been removed and 15 illegal mask shops had been permanently removed.
2月6日，该电商宣布将对10家违规商家发起民事诉讼。
On 6 February, the operator announced that civil proceedings would be initiated against 10 offending businesses.
口罩作妖也成了各地政府惩戒的重中之重。
Mask monsters have also become a top priority for local governments.
2月7日，江苏省南通市港闸区法院网络“隔空”审理全国首起防疫物资诈骗案，因在网上发布销售口罩虚假信息诈骗近万元，被告人张某被判刑1年半，罚金1万元。
Zhang was sentenced to one-and-a-half years in prison and fined 10,000 yuan for cheating nearly 10,000 yuan by publishing false information about the sale of face masks on the Internet.
审判员王冯告诉南方周末记者，速裁程序可用于判处三年以下的案件，量刑比惯例重，正是考虑疫情期间，对防疫物资的诈骗要从重处罚。
Judge Wang Feng told Southern Weekend reporter that the fast-track procedure could be used to impose heavier sentences than usual in cases under three years, and it was during the epidemic that fraud against epidemic prevention materials was given a heavier punishment.
此后，不惟江苏，浙江、黑龙江、新疆、四川等地也有多人因口罩诈骗罪或销售伪劣产品罪被判刑。
Since then, not only Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Heilongjiang, Xinjiang, Sichuan and many others have been sentenced for mask fraud or selling fake and inferior products.
截至发稿，最新的一例发生在四川。
As of the date of dispatch, the latest case occurred in Sichuan.
2月19日，资中县法院判处被告人何某有期徒刑5年，并处罚金人民币2万元。
On February 19, the Jinzhong County Court sentenced the defendant to five years' imprisonment and a fine of 20,000 yuan.
2政府竭尽办法 企业起死回生“春节复工，上游原材料供应不上是个大难题。
2 The government tried its best to revive enterprises "Spring Festival resumed work, upstream raw materials supply is not a major problem.
”中国医疗器械行业协会负责对接口罩商的相关人士告诉南方周末记者，还可能面临人工成本翻倍、物流不畅等问题。
The China Medical Device Industry Association, which handles mask makers, told Southern Weekend reporters that it could also face problems such as doubling labor costs and poor logistics.
不过，“缺哪根线，政府都尽力调配”。
But "the government is trying to match the missing line."
广西一个地级市工信局官员告诉南方周末记者：“（口罩生产商）缺原材料还是缺人统一报上来，政府想办法，该高价买回来就买，该补贴就补。
"There is still a shortage of raw materials, and the government is trying to find a way to buy it at a higher price and make up for it," an official at Guangxi's provincial industrial and communications bureau told Southern Weekend.
”政府部门绞尽脑汁让口罩生产商复工，间接让一批早已停产或濒临破产的口罩企业起死回生。
The government has racked its brains to get mask makers back to work, indirectly reviving a group of mask companies that had long since shut down or were on the verge of bankruptcy.
北京市昌平区市场监管局医疗器械科的相关人士在大年初一接到指示，摸底排查具备防疫物资生产能力的企业。
On the first day of the New Year, the relevant personnel of the Medical Device Division of Changping District of Beijing were instructed to map out enterprises with epidemic prevention production capacity.
最终找到一家企业能生产口罩，但已经停产5年。
Eventually, a company was found to be able to produce masks, but it has been shut down for five years.
然而，仅用了12天就重新恢复生产。
However, it took only 12 days to resume production.
苏州刚松防护科技股份有限公司的一位工作人员对南方周末记者说，公司原本于2019年12月进入破产清算程序。
Suzhou Gangsong Protection Technology Co. Ltd. a staff member told Southern Weekend reporter that the company was originally in December 2019 into bankruptcy liquidation procedures.
但在2020年2月3日，公司又恢复产能，第一条生产线日产KN95口罩2万个，其他三条生产线还将陆续投产。
But on February 3, 2020, the company resumed production capacity, the first production line daily production line 20,000 KN95 masks, the other three production lines will be in production.
同日，在1600公里外的四川巴中，已倒闭10年的一家口罩厂经过96个小时的准备，生产线又重新运转起来。
On the same day, a 10-year-old mask factory in Bazhong, Sichuan Province, 1600 kilometers away, was back on line after 96 hours of preparation.
而在山东威海，威海鸿宇无纺布制品有限公司于2016年4月进入破产重整程序。
And in Weihai Shandong, Weihai Hongyu Non-woven Products Co. Ltd. entered into bankruptcy reorganization in April 2016.
1月27日，威海经济技术开发区管委紧急拨付资金300万元，协助这家公司迅速复工。
On January 27, the management committee of Weihai Economic and Technological Development Zone made an emergency allocation of 3 million yuan to help the company resume work quickly.
2月3日，这一天也是A股开市第一天，科创板的洁特生物股价涨幅108.54%。
On February 3, the first day of A-share trading, the shares of science-board Jet Biology rose 108.54%.
鲜为人知的是，洁特生物生产口罩的子公司拜费尔早已处于亏损状态。
Little is known about the loss of Bayer, a unit of Jet Biology that makes masks.
洁特生物董事长袁建华此前向媒体介绍，该公司生产口罩的原意是对抗雾霾，因雾霾天气减少，母公司本已决定走注销流程，如今已撤回注销申请。
Jet Biology Chairman Yuan Jianhua told reporters that the company's mask production was meant to combat fog and the parent company, which had decided to follow the write-off process because of reduced haze, has withdrawn its cancellation request.
3跨界转产 自产自救原有口罩商不够，一些地方政府鼓励企业通过扩产、转产、新建等方式，加快生产口罩和防护服。
Some local governments encourage enterprises to speed up the production of masks and protective clothing by expanding production, converting to new production, etc.
福建省莆田市便是典型样本。
Putian City Fujian Province is a typical sample.
该市市长李建辉呼吁莆田企业“自产自救”。
City Mayor Lee Jianhui called on Putian enterprises "self-help."
莆田市常住人口近三百万，面对复工、开学高峰，一天的口罩用量在150万个以上，靠外面调配、社会捐赠是杯水车薪。
With a population of nearly three million, Putian faces the prospect of returning to work and starting classes at a peak of 1.5 million masks a day.
2月1日，莆田工信局发出了“转产召集令”，给出了补贴时间表。
On February 1, Putian's office issued the "Convenient Order for Conversion," giving a timetable for the subsidy.
对于2月6日前购置设备安装到位并生产的，按照设备购买金额60%给予补助；2月15日前的，按50%给予补助。
Assistance is provided at 60 per cent of the purchase cost of equipment acquired prior to 6 February, and at 50 per cent until 15 February.
这是一场自上而下的总动员。
It was a top-down mobilization.
从1月下旬起，中央应对疫情工作领导小组会议就号召，要求各地迅速组织医用防护服、口罩、医用护目镜、负压救护车的生产，并为这些转产企业提供税收、金融等支持政策。
Since late January, the meeting of the Central Leading Group for the Response to the Epidemic has called on all localities to promptly organize the production of medical protective clothing, masks, medical goggles and negative pressure ambulances, and to provide tax and financial support to these enterprises.
莆田以鞋业闻名。
Putian is famous for its footwear industry.
在莆田市政府直接指挥下，莆田工信局联合鞋业协会，以及当地生产纸尿裤等企业，共同组建“口罩生产攻坚小组”。
Under the direct command of the Putian city government, Putian Industrial and Communications Bureau, and the local production of diapers, such as enterprises, formed "mask production team."
力奴鞋业总经办负责人许蔚静对南方周末记者说，在内部大家戏称“小组”为“口罩研究院”，莆田工信局局长张志宏则成了“口罩研究院院长”。
Xu Weijing, chief executive of Renu Shoes, told Southern Weekend reporter that the "group" was jokingly called the "mask institute" and the director of Putian Industrial Letter Zhang Zhihong became the director of the mask research institute.
企业转产并不难。
It is not difficult to convert.
正常情况下，根据生产品种和自动化程度不同，一条口罩生产线建设成本在10万到40万元之间。
Normally, depending on the type of production and the degree of automation, the cost of building a mask production line is between $100,000 and $400,000.
一条生产线24小时不停的话，产能在5万个左右，自动化程度高的，最多可达到10万个。
A 24-hour production line with a capacity of around 50,000, highly automated, up to 100,000.
生产原材料由政府提供，鞋业协会负责物流，边生产边走资格审批程序。
Raw materials are produced by the Government and the Shoe Industry Association is responsible for logistics and goes through the qualification process as it is produced.
尽管如此，生产也一度因为复工限时令陷入僵局。
Despite this, production has stalled for a time because of the time limit for resuming work.
莆田企业工人在2月10日之前不得复工，于是只能召集留厂和周边职工复工。
Putian enterprise workers are not allowed to resume work until February 10, so can only call the factory and surrounding workers back to work.
而在目前，面临较大的问题就是生产车间人员的防护服、头套、脚套等短缺。
But at present, faces the big question is the production workshop personnel's protective clothing, the head covering, the foot cover and so on shortage.
“一般民用口罩生产，事实上门槛并不高，自动化程度较高，整体转换速度是很快的。
"General production of civilian masks, in fact the threshold is not high, a higher degree of automation, the overall conversion rate is very fast.
五菱只用了三天就下线了。
Wuling took only three days to get off the line.
”江涛解释。
"explained Jiang Tao.
首先要保证无尘车间，这对于很多鞋服、婴幼儿用品或女性用品等生产企业来说，都是现成的。
Make sure that the dustless workshop is first of all available to many manufacturers, such as shoes, toddlers or women's products.
即使医用口罩的生产环境要求10万级洁净（即每立方米大于0.5微米的颗粒不超过10万个）车间，而纸尿裤的生产车间要求是30万级洁净。
Even though the production environment for medical masks requires 100,000 levels of cleanliness (that is, up to 100,000 particles per cubic metre or more), the production of diapers requires 300,000 levels of cleanliness.
于是，生产纸尿裤的莆田企业乐澄生活用品有限公司（以下简称乐澄生活）也转产了，不过暂时只生产民用口罩。
Therefore, the production of paper diapers Putian Enterprise LeiCheng Lifestyle Co. Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "Le Cheng life") also converted production, but only temporary production of civilian masks.
除了10万级洁净车间，还需要环氧乙烷的消杀灭菌。
In addition to the 100,000 clean workshop, ethylene oxide also needs to be sterilized.
环节更繁琐，时间更长。
The links are more cumbersome and time-consuming.
根据消杀设备的不同，生产周期比民用口罩要长一周左右。
Production cycles are about a week longer than for civilian masks, depending on the equipment used to sterilize them.
因此，大多数转产企业生产的均是民用口罩。
As a result, most conversion enterprises are producing civilian masks.
其次是原材料充足和设备到位，如无纺布、熔喷布和口罩机等。
The second is adequate raw materials and equipment in place, such as non-woven cloth, molten cloth and mask machine.
此外，生产民用口罩要办“生产许可证”“营业许可证”“卫生许可证”“产品合格证”等，生产医用口罩还要向省级相关部门申办“医疗器械产品注册证”“医疗器械生产许可证”，在政府强力支持下，办证开绿灯，产检同步进行。
In addition, the production of civilian masks should be covered by "Production License," "Business License," "Product Certificate of Competency," etc., and the production of medical masks should be accompanied by the "Certificate of Registration of Medical Device Products" and the "License for the Production of Medical Devices.
不少业内相关人士表示，随着越来越多企业恢复生产、跨界转产尤其是大型工业企业的加入，原料、设备供应变得十分紧俏。
Many industry stakeholders say supplies of raw materials and equipment are tight as more and more companies resume production and switch industries across borders, especially large industrial companies.
4缺口究竟有多大2月13日，就在“五菱牌”口罩批量生产的当天，国家发改委数据显示，湖北的口罩日产量从2月2日的4.5万个大幅增至2月11日的15.8万个，河南、浙江等地则从零产量分别增至1.4万个、10万个。
4 Exactly how many gaps there are On February 13, the day of the production of the five-diamond mask batch, the National Development and Reform Commission showed that the daily output of masks in Hubei increased significantly from 45,000 on February 2 to 158,000 on February 11, and in Henan and Zhejiang provinces from zero to 14,000 and 100,000 respectively.
不过，没人能算得清中国的口罩缺口究竟有多大。
But no one can say exactly how big a gap there is in China.
世界卫生组织2月7日表示，由于新冠肺炎疫情，世界正面临口罩、手套等个人防护用品的长期短缺，目前的需求量是正常水平的100倍，而价格则是正常水平的20倍以上。
The world is facing a chronic shortage of personal protective equipment such as masks and gloves as a result of the outbreak of pneumonia, the World Health Organization (WHO) said on Tuesday.
次日，华创证券根据全国的复工需求分析，中国第二三产业就业人口总计5.3亿，如每人每天一个，则每天需要5.3亿个口罩。
The next day, according to a nationwide demand analysis, China's tertiary sector employs 530 million people, or 530 million face masks per person per day.
极端情况下，仅第二产业、医疗行业和交通运输业，每天也需2.38亿个。
In extreme cases, 238 million units are needed daily in the secondary, medical and transport sectors alone.
但中国纺织品商业协会副会长雷利民认为，因为实际情况每天都在变化，中国口罩的需求和缺口难以给出一个精准的数字，但可以确定的是这个需求和缺口都非常大。
But Li Limin, vice-president of the China Textile Business Association, said it was difficult to give a precise figure for the number of masks needed and gaps in China because of the changing reality on a daily basis.
一位不愿具名的业内人士告诉南方周末记者，目前中国口罩每日需求量已经超过1.5亿个。
An anonymous insiders told Southern Weekend that the daily demand for Chinese masks has exceeded 150 million.
随着复工潮的到来，需求量可能翻一番。
Demand is likely to double with the arrival of a return to work.
但具体测算方法，他并未详细说明。
But he did not elaborate on the exact method of calculation.
可以预见的是，一方面医院等抗疫前线口罩用量不会减少，另一方面企业复工口罩会大幅增加，加之普通市民的日常出行需求，口罩在未来一段时间内，需求量将只增不减。
It is anticipated that, on the one hand, there will be no reduction in the use of frontline respirators, such as hospitals, and on the other hand, there will be a significant increase in the number of operational masks.
中国是全球最大的口罩生产国和出口国，年产量可占全球“半壁江山”。
China is the world's largest producer and exporter of masks, accounting for half the world's annual output.
1月23日，国家工信部公布中国口罩最大产能为每天两千多万个。
On January 23, the State Ministry of Industry and Communications announced that the maximum capacity of Chinese masks is more than 20 million per day.
春节期间，1月25日（大年初一）时口罩实际日产量仅为800万个。
During the Spring Festival, the actual daily production of masks on January 25 (New Year's Day) was only 8 million.
而截至2月3日，全国22个重点省份已达1480.6万个，产能利用率达67%。
As of February 3, there were 14.806 million key provinces in China, with a capacity utilization rate of 67 percent.
截至2月11日，全国口罩生产企业产能利用率已经达到94%。
As of February 11, capacity utilization in mask-producing enterprises nationwide had reached 94%.
雷利民算了一笔账，根据目前协会掌握的数据，口罩产能正在逐步释放，加上各地新增的产能，预估到2月底，每天能生产各类口罩近2亿个，有望在一定程度上缓解口罩的短缺焦虑。
Riley Min has calculated that, according to the association's current data, mask production capacity is gradually being released, and with the addition of new capacity everywhere, it is estimated that by the end of February, nearly 200 million face masks will be produced daily, which is expected to alleviate some of the anxiety about the mask shortage.
而一位接近国家工信部的相关人士向南方周末记者透露，实际产能比这一数据更高。
A person close to the ministry told Southern Weekend that the actual production capacity is higher than this figure.
一方面，因为口罩生产商中有不少民营中小微企业，甚至还有一些“一户一厂”（即小作坊）的灵活形式，此前并不在工信部统计范畴内；另一方面，可能存在瞒报、少报产能的现象。
On the one hand, there are many private MSMEs among the mask manufacturers, and even some "one-factory" (i.e. small workshops) flexible forms, which were not previously covered by the Ministry's statistics; on the other hand, there may be underreporting and underreporting of production capacity.
前述市级工信局官员称，所幸这时期转产的企业，有政府备案，其产能可以尽可能真实计入官方统计。
Municipal CITB officials said that fortunately this period of conversion of enterprises, with government records, its capacity can be as real as possible into the official statistics.
“统计产能，企业会想着向当地工信部门少报一些，自留部分供给市场；当地政府又会想着地方自己，少报一些，留给自己。
"By measuring production capacity, companies will want to underreport to the local industry sector and keep part of it for the market; the local government will think about itself, reporting less and leaving it to themselves."
”前述工信部相关人士说，这对政府统一调配资源十分不利。
The ministry official said the move would be detrimental to the government's ability to pool resources.
5一个口罩的利润多高在政府管控下，多家企业均表示，口罩生产成本因各家渠道不同，高低起伏很大，利润也难以测算。
How much a mask profits under government control, a number of companies have said that the cost of mask production due to different channels, high and low fluctuations, profit is difficult to measure.
杨洋说，政府收购价格中，允许企业加收的利润很微薄。
Yang said that the government's purchase price, allowing businesses to collect additional profits is very small.
企业须上报这一批货原料价位、人工成本等，并汇总财务报表上报政府部门核算。
Enterprises are required to report the price of this batch of raw materials, labor costs, and summary financial statements reported to government departments.
“如果这批口罩生产出来成本是1块一个，政府也就允许可能20%的利润，1块2一个收走。
"If it costs one dollar to produce these masks, the government will allow a profit of perhaps 20 percent, one for every two.
”力奴鞋业、乐澄生活等企业均表示目前生产成本大涨，但具体数据还未测算。
Enterprises such as Renu Shoes and Legend Life have said production costs have risen sharply, but the figures haven't been calculated.
现由政府统一收购后，乐澄生活生产的口罩收购价为1.7元/个，而其他地区口罩收购价也普遍在0.5-1.5元区间内。
Since its acquisition by the government, the purchase price of LeiCheng's masks has been 1.7 yuan per unit, while that of other areas is generally in the range of 0.5 to 1.5 yuan.
中国医疗器械行业协会前述负责人表示，政府允许企业拥有一个合理的利润空间，在每一批生产的成本附加的利润。
The aforementioned head of the Chinese Medical Device Industry Association said the government allows companies a reasonable profit margin at the cost of each batch of production.
“现在对这些生产口罩的企业来说，还是盈利的。
"It's profitable for these mask makers right now.
至少这半年或者这一年都是生产盈利的机会。
At least half a year or even this year is a profitable opportunity to produce.
”各地售价不一。
Prices vary from place to place.
以政府定点售价来说，上海统一定价0.45元/个，河南许昌1.3元/个，湖北仙桃一次性医用口罩价格不得高于1.20元/片、非医用口罩价格不得高于1.00元/片，黄冈每只口罩零售价0.65至0.80元。
In terms of government fixed-price, Shanghai is priced at 0.45 yuan / unit, Henan Xuchang is 1.3 yuan / unit, Hubei Xiantao disposable medical masks must not cost more than $1.20 per tablet, the price of non-medical masks must not exceed $1.00 per tablet, and the retail price of each mask in Huanggang should be between $0.65 and $0.80.
南方周末记者走访北京市一些药店和商超，不少负责人表示，相比一些不靠谱的微商，真正在销售口罩的零售商都不愿卖口罩了。
Southern Weekend reporters visited some pharmacies and shops in Beijing, and a number of people in charge said retailers who were selling masks were reluctant to sell masks compared with unreliable microquotients.
进货难、进货贵、物流慢，还要承担市场风险，让它们对一个口罩仅几毛钱的利润望而却步。
Difficult to buy, expensive to buy, slow logistics, but also to bear the market risk, so that they only a few cents of a mask profit prohibitive.
疫情发酵之时，尽管1月21日当晚，淘宝官微发布了不允许口罩涨价的申明，依然难以控制价格上浮。
While the epidemic was simmering, Taobao officials issued a statement on the night of January 21 that it would not allow the price of masks to rise, making it difficult to keep prices from rising.
高溢价的口罩也并不一定都是假口罩。
High-premium masks are not always fake.
一位业内人士向南方周末记者透露，通常口罩生产商还是会尽量留一部分给经销商。
One industry source told Southern Weekend that mask makers usually try to keep as much as possible for dealers.
一旦疫情结束，政府不再统一收购口罩，还是得靠经销商来销售口罩。
Once the epidemic is over, the government will no longer be buying masks, and dealers will have to sell them.
“这也是为什么有的企业会虚报产能，市场上的口罩还有溢价空间。
"That's why some companies are inflating their production capacity and there is still a premium for masks on the market."
”北京一位超市采购负责人告诉南方周末记者，正规商超不会没来由地涨价。
A supermarket buyer in Beijing told Southern Weekend reporter that the regular supermarket would not increase prices for no reason.
“供应商涨多少，我们不涨那么多岂不就是亏本。
"If we don't go up so much, how much will we lose?
政府也不会给补。
Nor will the government make up for it.
”北京市丰台区和天津市津南区的市场监管部门，都曾经对辖区内药店哄抬口罩价格违法行为开出300万元罚单——这两个案件都是依法顶格处罚。
Market regulators in Fengtai District of Beijing and Tianjin South District of Tianjin have issued three million yuan in fines for illegal pricing of face masks in pharmacies under their jurisdiction - both cases punishable by law.
也有引发争论的罚单。
There were also contentious tickets.
2月5日，湖北省洪湖市华康大药房，因为所销售的一次性口罩进货价0.6元，卖1元，购销差价额高过该市相关规定15%的标准，被罚4万余元。
Huakang Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Huanghu City, Hubei Province, was fined 0.60 yuan for buying disposable masks and 1 yuan for selling them.
不过，在网友为其叫屈的舆论氛围下，该案重新调查后不再执行处罚。
However, in the netizens for its grievances of the public opinion atmosphere, the case was re-investigated no longer carry out the punishment.
“正常的涨价不应该被禁止，也不宜一刀切式地以某个涨幅作为处罚标准。
"Normal price increases should not be prohibited, nor should one size fits all use one-size-fits-all increases as a penalty criterion.
”上海交通大学安泰经济与管理学院教授陆铭在“1元口罩”事件时对媒体如是评价。
Lu Ming, a professor at Shanghai Jiaotong University's Antai School of Economics and Management, said of the one-dollar mask incident.
这也引起了部分经济学家对市场机制的看法。
This has also prompted some economists to view the market mechanism.
上海对外经贸大学教授李辉文为此发文称：市场是一种高效的信息交流的协调机制，并且非常强健。
The market is an efficient mechanism for coordinating information exchange and is very strong, Li Peiwen, a professor at Shanghai University of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation, said.
在新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情快速蔓延的时候，尤其应该充分认识、尊重市场的这一价值，并且保护好市场机制发挥作用的环境。
When the new coronavirus pneumonia is spreading rapidly, we should fully realize and respect this value of the market and protect the environment in which the market mechanism works.
2月15日，杨洋终于找到一家外省的上游供应商，但物流成本比以往高出三倍。
On February 15, Yang finally found an upstream supplier from the province, but logistics costs were three times higher than before.
尽管如此，截至发稿前，杨洋还是未收到发货的通知——当地政府又将这家上游供应商的所有原材料都征用为防疫物资了。
Still, Yang had not been notified of the shipment by the time it was dispatched - all raw materials from the upstream supplier had been requisitioned by the local government.
（应受访者要求，文中杨洋、江涛为化名）。
(At the request of the respondents, Yang Yang and Jiang Tao are aliases).
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
口罩的 “非常 ”加法：日产量或将两亿 ，仍会短缺还是饱和？。
The "unusual" addition to a mask: Will output be 200 million a day, or will it still be short or saturated?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "口罩的 “非常 ”加法：日产量或将两亿 ，仍会短缺还是饱和？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "“你那儿有口罩吗？”";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "Do you have a mask with you?" & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
