“蝗虫大军”暂时不来了，这些乌龙与真相仍要警惕。
"The army of locusts" is not coming for the time being, these oolong and the truth should remain vigilant.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
The following article comes from 千篇一绿。
The following article comes in a thousand green pages.
Author 杨凯奇。
Author Yang Cage.
千篇一绿。
A thousand green articles.
著文千篇，皆为一绿。
Write thousands of articles, all green.
南方周末绿色新闻，关切我们每一个人赖以生存的水、空气和食品，因为它们是一切崇高价值的基础。
Southern Weekend Green News is concerned about the water, air and food on which every one of us depends, as they are the basis of all noble values.
。
.
▲肯尼亚的沙漠蝗虫群（FAO/图）全文共4024字，阅读大约需要10分钟。
Kenya's desert locust swarm (FAO / map) has a total of 4,024 words and takes about 10 minutes to read.
网友混淆了东非蝗灾和印巴蝗灾。
Netizens confused locust plague in East Africa with locust plague in India and Pakistan.
联合国粮农组织（FAO）回复南方周末记者，印巴蝗灾暂不会影响中国。
The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) replied Southern Weekend reporter, India-Pakistan locust disaster will not affect China temporarily.
沙漠蝗对于中国的威胁仍飘忽不定，更要警惕草地贪夜蛾与沙漠蝗的复合型虫灾。
The desert locust threat to China is still uncertain, more to be wary of the grass moth and desert locust complex insect disaster.
鸟类等动物治蝗办法只能适用于一小块地方。
Animals such as birds can only be used in a small area.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 杨凯奇南方周末实习生 宋炳晨责任编辑 | 汪韬“4000亿只蝗虫大军”好像不来了，中国国内刚刚预热、准备腾空的“蝗灾概念股”应声而跌。
This article began at Southern Weekend without authorization to reprint S & amp; D Yang Kai-chen, a weekend intern at Southern Weekend, when a "troop of 400 billion locust locusts" seemed to be at home, responding to a "locust-infested conceptual unit" that had been pre-heated and ready to be vacated.
2020年2月14日，多家中国媒体发布消息称，“从非洲侵入印度、巴基斯坦”的蝗虫大军达“4000亿只”。
On February 14, 2020, Chinese media reported that "invading India and Pakistan from Africa" locust army reached "400 billion."
没想到四天后，《印度时报》（TimesofIndia）报道，当前印度蝗灾已基本结束，目前仅拉贾斯坦邦部分地区仍有少数蝗虫聚集。
Four days later, the Times of India reported that the current plague of locusts was almost over in India, with only a few locusts still gathering in parts of Rajasthan.
资本的狂热被浇灭，不意味着公众对于此轮虫灾的误解就已消除——混淆东非蝗灾和印巴蝗灾，期待看到鸭子吃蝗虫灭灾……更不意味着蝗虫再不会来中国了，可以放松警惕。
The death of the capital mania does not mean that public misconceptions about the plague have been dispelled - confusion between locust infestation in East Africa and locust infestation in India and Pakistan, and the prospect of seeing ducks eat locusts to kill locusts... not to say that locusts will never come to China again.
乌龙一混淆了两起蝗灾想象一支以亿为单位的大军从天而降，在扫荡了人类起源地、“露西少女”的故乡——东非大陆后，一路北上东征，穿过北非地中海文明、阿拉伯文明，直抵两河-波斯文明的腹心地带，所过之处的农田颗粒无收。
Wulong Mixing Two Plagues of Locusts Imagine a army of billions descending from the sky. After sweeping the continent of East Africa, the birthplace of Lucy, the land of mankind, we march northward, through the Mediterranean and Arab civilizations of North Africa, to the heartland of the two rivers-Persian civilization.
这是怎样一幅末世景象。
What a spectacle of the end.
但印巴的蝗虫是从非洲飞过来的吗？并不是，网友混淆了这两起蝗灾。
But did India and Pakistan fly locusts from Africa? Not that netizens confused the two locusts.
虽然二者都是沙漠蝗，东非蝗虫群来自阿拉伯半岛的南部沙漠，并早在2018年就开始大规模孵化，经过几轮快速“补员”后，从阿拉伯半岛向西，飞越红海和亚丁湾到达非洲之角。
Although both are desert locusts, the East African locust swarms from the southern desert of the Arabian Peninsula and hatch on a large scale as early as 2018, reaching the Horn of Africa from the Arabian Peninsula westward, across the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden, after several rounds of quick "reinforcements."
印巴蝗灾则发生于2019年夏季，持续到2020年年初，种群来源尚且未知。
Indo-Pakistani locust infestation occurred in the summer of 2019 and continued until early 2020, with unknown population sources.
联合国粮农组织（FAO）通过邮件回复南方周末记者称，目前东非的蝗虫仍处于繁殖高潮期（upsurge），尚未达到最高级别“祸患（plague）”，但可能会变成“祸患”。
The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) replied via e-mail to Southern Weekend that locusts in East Africa are still in a breeding boom and have not reached the highest levels of "plague," but could become "scourges."
即便如此，这场蝗灾仍是东非国家索马里和埃塞俄比亚25年来最严重的一次，对肯尼亚和乌干达来说，则是70年来最严重的一次。
Even so, the locust plague is the worst in 25 years for the East African countries of Somalia and Ethiopia, and the worst in 70 years for Kenya and Uganda.
据FAO2020年2月3日发布的沙漠蝗灾情况公报（第496号）显示，全球受威胁区域已有246477公顷，如不及时采取有效措施，可能导致东非地区的1300万民众面临粮食危机。
According to the FAO2020 bulletin on desert locust infestation (No. 496), 246,477 hectares of the world's threatened area are already under threat, which could lead to a food crisis for 13 million people in East Africa if effective measures are not taken in a timely manner.
不过，此次东非蝗灾目前仍主要影响东非国家，正在向红海沿岸和亚洲西南部蔓延，这里的蝗虫值得关注（concern）但还没有达到繁殖高潮期（upsurge）级别。
However, the locust infestation in East Africa, which still mainly affects East African countries, is spreading to the Red Sea coast and south-west Asia, where locusts are of concern but not yet at the upsurge level.
离中国更近的印巴蝗灾，FAO负责蝗虫预警的高级官员KeithCressman说，基本不会影响到中国，因为蝗群目前在巴基斯坦西南部的西端，它们无法向北越过海拔高、气温过低的喜马拉雅山脉，也不能向东穿过印度北部。
Closer to China, says Keith Cressman, a senior FAO locust official in charge of locust warning, because the swarms are at the western tip of southwestern Pakistan and cannot move northward across the high- and low-temperature Himalayas or eastward across northern India.
FAO一直用卫星实时监测蝗灾，并能够提前6个星期向受灾国预警。
FAO has been using satellites to monitor locust infestations in real time and is able to provide early warning to affected countries six weeks in advance.
据FAO判断，印巴边境沿线局势平稳，巴基斯坦国内仅旁遮普邦、开伯尔·普赫图赫瓦邦和俾路支地区的农田还有一些小蝗群活动。
According to FAO, the situation along the India-Pakistan border is stable, with only some locust activity in the agricultural fields of Punjab, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Baluchistan.
在印度，拉贾斯坦邦部分地区尚残留少量夏季繁殖的蝗虫群，当地政府正在进行控制行动。
In India, a handful of summer grasshoppers remain in parts of Rajasthan, where local authorities are taking control.
真相一威胁还在，警惕不可放松对于东非蝗虫，FAO发出提醒，如不及时遏制，“高潮”可能会演变成“祸患”。
FAO Warns East African Locusts The FAO warned that unless contained in time, the "orgasm" could turn into a "scourge."
KeithCressman指出，“适当的条件下，蝗虫种群每3个月可以增加20倍、6个月后增加400倍，9个月后增加8000倍，威胁全球三十多个国家和地区的粮食安全。
"Under the right conditions, locust populations can increase 20-fold every three months, 400-fold after six months and 8,000-fold nine months later, threatening food security in more than 30 countries and regions around the world," KeithCressman said.
”对于印巴蝗灾同样不能放松警惕。
The same cannot be said of India-Pakistan locusts.
害虫防治专家、中国农业大学昆虫学系教授石旺鹏解释，蝗虫的寿命一般只有2个月，其一生的使命就是繁育下一代，产卵后它的生命也就接近终结了。
Shi Wangpeng, a pest-control expert and professor in the Department of Entomology at China Agricultural University, explains that locusts typically have a lifespan of just two months.
印度蝗灾的消弭既因为政府防控生效，也与蝗虫产卵后自然死亡有关。
The elimination of locust infestation in India was due to both government control and natural death after spawning.
夏季繁殖的蝗虫群在南亚大地上已经留下数量巨大的虫卵，碰到合适的水热条件就能孵化，掀起新一轮暴发。
Summer swarms of locusts have left huge numbers of eggs on South Asian soil that can hatch under the right conditions, triggering a new outbreak.
同时，伊朗东南沿海作为印巴蝗灾可能的发源地之一，那里的沙漠蝗虫仍在继续繁殖，“孵化过程比平常早了约两个月。
Meanwhile, desert locusts continue to breed on the south-eastern coast of Iran, one of the possible sources of locust infestation, "about two months earlier than usual."
”FAO称。
"the FAO said.
印度对2020年夏季可能发生的第二代蝗灾严阵以待。
India is bracing itself for a possible second-generation locust invasion in the summer of 2020.
印度农业部部长凯拉什·乔杜里向《印度时报》介绍，政府计划采购60台配备最新技术的专业喷雾器，使用直升机和无人机空中喷洒杀虫剂。
The Indian Agriculture Minister, Kailash Chowdhury, told the Times of India that the government planned to procure 60 specialized aerosol sprayers equipped with state-of-the-art technology, using helicopters and aerial spraying with drones.
巴基斯坦政府也已经启动了一级应急响应。
The Government of Pakistan has also initiated a level 1 emergency response.
“巴基斯坦那边一直给我发短信，2月18日发来的消息是蝗虫还在飞。
"Pakistan has been sending me text messages, February 18 is the message that locusts are still flying.
”石旺鹏说，“仍不能掉以轻心。
"Still you can't take it lightly," said Shi.
”根据我国著名昆虫学家陈家祥统计，从公元前707年到1935年的两千多年间，中国有确切记载的蝗灾约为796次。
According to Chen Jiaxiang, a famous entomologist in China, 796 locust plagues were recorded in China from 707 B.C. to 1935.
千年对抗中，中国人练就丰富的治蝗经验，但沙漠蝗虫是我们面临的全新挑战。
In the millennia of confrontation, the Chinese have experienced locust control, but desert locusts are a new challenge for us.
“中国蝗灾以亚洲飞蝗、西伯利亚蝗和意大利蝗为主，国内没多少人见过这种沙漠蝗。
"Locust infestation in China is mainly Asian locusts, Siberian locusts and Italian locusts. Few people in China have seen this desert locust.
”石旺鹏坦言。
Shi Wangpeng confessed.
这个潜在的敌人可能比老对手亚洲飞蝗更难对付。
This potential foe may be more difficult to deal with than his old foe, the Asian locust.
亚洲飞蝗不吃甘薯、土豆、麻类等作物，而沙漠蝗食性更广、繁殖速度惊人、飞行能力强、个头更大，每天的食量相当于自身重量，是一支补员速度快、单兵素质高的大军。
Asian locusts do not eat sweet potatoes, potatoes, hemp and other crops, while desert locusts eat more, reproduce faster, fly faster, are larger, eat as much as they do, and are a fast-moving, high-quality army of men.
目前，沙漠蝗对于中国的威胁仍飘忽不定。
At present, the desert locust threat to China is still uncertain.
中国正在跟踪印巴蝗灾的动向，并积极做准备。
China is following the trend of locust infestation in India and Pakistan and is actively preparing for it.
据新京报报道，新疆维吾尔自治区治蝗办正在监测印巴蝗灾中蝗群的飞行路线。
The Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region Locust Control Office is monitoring the route of locust infestation in India and Pakistan, the Beijing News reported.
一位专家告诉南方周末记者，2月19日，国家农业部要求他和农业专家们“报几个可以设置的监测点”。
An expert told Southern Weekend that on February 19, the Ministry of Agriculture asked him and agricultural experts to "report several possible monitoring sites."
相比于路途遥远、环境艰险的“中亚-新疆”路线，云南省农业厅种植业与农业管理处工作人员王强（化名）担心“缅甸-云南”路线成为沙漠蝗的主攻方向，因为过去曾发生过缅甸、老挝的亚洲飞蝗侵入云南的事，幸好因为防控及时没有造成大的灾情。
Wang Qiang (not his real name), a planter at Yunnan's Department of Agriculture and Agricultural Administration, worries that the Myanmar-Yunnan route is the main focus of the desert locusts, given that Asian locusts from Myanmar and Laos invaded Yunnan in the past, but fortunately there was no major disaster in time.
不过，此前农业农村部种植业管理司有关负责人曾对媒体表示，由于西藏南部和云南西部边境与尼泊尔和缅甸沙漠蝗发生区毗邻，不排除有少量蝗虫随季风迁入我国的可能，但造成危害的几率很小。
However, the head of the cropping management department of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs had told the media that since the southern border of Tibet and the western border of Yunnan was adjacent to the desert locust-infested areas of Nepal and Myanmar, the possibility of a small number of locusts moving into the country with the monsoon was not ruled out, but the risk of harm was low.
云南治蝗部门也常“御蝗于国门之外”，到缅甸、老挝协助当地人共同防控蝗灾。
Yunnan locust control department also often "locust outside the country" to Myanmar, Laos to help local people jointly control locust infestation.
只是这次威胁变成了沙漠蝗，“连印度和巴基斯坦都为此坐下来开会，可见情况之危急”。
But the threat turned into desert locust. "Even India and Pakistan are sitting down for this, and the situation is critical."
他们判断，由于地理阻隔，沙漠蝗侵入中国的概率较小，但仍然以积极态度应对，“正在做物资和技术储备”。
They judged that desert locusts were less likely to invade China because of geographic isolation, but responded positively, "building supplies and technical reserves."
石旺鹏介绍，土蝗俗称蚂蚱，一般不结群飞行，危害比飞蝗小，以控制扩散为主；飞蝗则需要在起源地杀灭，避免其长大结群；对入侵的蝗虫，则要确保将其绞杀在入侵的第一站。
Locust, commonly known as grasshopper, does not fly in groups and is less dangerous than locusts to control spread. Locusts need to be killed in the source areas to prevent them from growing up in colonies.
王强所在单位计划对境外蝗灾开展监测预警，同时与位于蝗灾可能侵入路径的缅甸、孟加拉国开展定点联系。
Wang Qiang's unit plans to carry out surveillance and early warning of locust infestation abroad, and carry out fixed-point contact with Myanmar and Bangladesh, which are located on the possible invading routes of locust invasions.
目前，云南省农业厅已经草拟了应对沙漠蝗灾的方案，有待最后决议。
At present, Yunnan Province Department of Agriculture has drafted a response to desert locust disaster, pending a final resolution.
肯尼亚的沙漠蝗虫暴发。
Desert locust outbreak in Kenya.
（FAO/图）乌龙二“以鸭治蝗”并非主流新疆招引椋鸟捕食蝗虫，浙江派十万只鸭子到新疆灭蝗灾……随此次非洲蝗灾消息流传的，还有各种鸟类治蝗的故事。
Starling is not the dominant species in Xinjiang. Zhejiang sent 100, 000 ducks to Xinjiang to wipe out locusts... along with the spread of locust infestation in Africa, there are also stories of birds treating locusts.
石旺鹏称，这些动物治蝗办法只能适用于一小块地方。
Shi Wangpeng said the treatment of these animals can only be applied to a small area.
世界各地对治蝗的共识是：把蝗灾杀灭在蝗蝻（幼虫）期，阻止其成虫结群飞行。
The consensus around the world is to kill locusts in the hoppers (larvae) phase and to prevent adults from flying in groups.
中国本土飞蝗生长于荒滩、沙土地上，国家提倡采用的生物防治主要用微生物类、抗生素类、植物盐类来杀灭蝗虫幼虫，这种方式的环境负担更小。
Locust native to China grows on desert beaches and sandy land. The biological control measures advocated by the State mainly use microorganisms, antibiotics and plant salts to kill locust larvae.
而入侵的飞蝗都是成虫，要直接杀死，就必须以飞机、人工相结合，大规模喷洒农药。
Invasive locusts are adults, to kill directly, must be a combination of aircraft, man-made, large-scale spraying of pesticides.
目前，中国已有河北、山东、新疆三大治蝗专用机场。
At present, China has three major airports for locusts in Hebei, Shandong and Xinjiang.
石旺鹏了解到，FAO援助非洲所用的杀虫药主要是有机磷类、菊酯类和氨基甲酸酯类农药。
Shi Wangpeng understands that the pesticides used by FAO to assist Africa are mainly organophosphates, pyrethroids and carbamates.
中国杀灭亚洲飞蝗的杀虫药成分与之相差不多，还从安全角度考虑淘汰了一些毒性较大的药。
China has a similar insecticide component to the Asian locust and has eliminated some of the more toxic drugs from a safety point of view.
“总体而言，中国应对蝗灾的物资储备比较充足，技术处于世界领先水平，是可以放心的。
"On the whole, China has sufficient material reserves to deal with locust plagues, and the technology is at the leading level in the world," he said.
”更治本的策略是直接压缩蝗虫的产卵地，因为蝗虫只能在裸露的土地上产卵，植被覆盖率越高，蝗虫就越难以生长。
A more radical strategy would be to compress the locust spawning grounds directly, because the more grasshoppers lay their eggs on bare soil, the more vegetation they cover, the more difficult it is to grow.
标本兼治下，中国已经多年未发生过大规模蝗灾。
Under both symptoms and root causes, China has not experienced large-scale locust infestation for many years.
事实上，不仅中国，受此次沙漠蝗灾影响的南亚、西亚、东非诸国也很久没见过如此规模的蝗灾。
Indeed, not only China, but also South, West and East African countries affected by the desert locust plague have not seen locusts of this magnitude for a long time.
巴基斯坦上一次蝗灾还得追溯到1993年，“我去过巴基斯坦作报告，那里的新一代人都没怎么经历过蝗灾。
The last plague of locusts in Pakistan dates back to 1993, "I've been to Pakistan to report that the new generation has not experienced locust infestation very much.
”石旺鹏说。
"said Shi Wangpeng.
真相二警惕草地贪夜蛾与沙漠蝗的复合型虫灾一旦沙漠蝗真的入侵，一些原本对付亚洲飞蝗行之有效的经验要做出调整。
Truth 2 Watch out for the complex pest infestation of the moth and desert locust Once the desert locust does invade, some of the original experience with the Asian locust will have to be adjusted.
调整种植结构，也就是种上蝗虫不爱吃的作物曾是应对蝗灾的有效措施。
Adjusting the planting structure, that is, planting crops that locusts do not like to eat, was an effective response to locust infestation.
中国南方原本蝗灾多发，新中国成立后将一些蝗虫易发地——尤其是几大湖区周围的水稻改成苜蓿，从而让南方蝗灾大大减少。
After the founding of New China, some locust-prone areas - especially rice around the Great Lakes region - were transformed into alfalfa, greatly reducing locust infestation in the south.
但沙漠蝗食性较杂，如何找到该物种不爱吃的作物也是难题。
But desert locust is more complex to eat, how to find the species do not like to eat crops is also a challenge.
对王强来说，除了盯着眼前的沙漠蝗，还要担心2019年侵入云南的草地贪夜蛾未来与沙漠蝗形成复合型虫灾。
For Wang Qiang, in addition to staring at the desert locust, but also about 2019 invasion of Yunnan grassland moth and the future formation of desert locusts complex insect disaster.
草地贪夜蛾也是一种可怕的害虫。
The moth is also a terrifying pest.
这种虫子的繁殖能力和迁徙能力很强，原产于美洲大陆，自2016年在非洲被发现后，很快遍及全球一百多个国家，2018年8月被FAO列为“跨国界迁飞性农业重大害虫”。
The bug, which has a strong reproductive and migratory capacity and is native to the American continent, has spread to more than 100 countries worldwide since it was discovered in Africa in 2016, and was classified by FAO as a "major cross-border migratory agricultural pest" in August 2018.
它食性也很杂，主要危害玉米，吃玉米叶子、玉米的芯和雌蕊。
It is also very complex to eat, mainly harm corn, eat corn leaves, corn cores and pistil.
如果任其蔓延，可造成玉米减产70%—90%。
If allowed to spread, it could reduce corn production by 70% -90%.
王强介绍，2019年草地贪夜蛾从与越南、老挝交界的江城哈尼族自治县侵入云南，已经形成了本地种群，还有一部分向北迁徙。
Wang said the moth, which invaded Yunnan in 2019 from the Hani autonomous county on the border with Vietnam and Laos, had formed a local population and moved some northward.
2020年随着气温转凉，北方的草地贪夜蛾种群将会南归，云南可能会遭遇继续侵入的种群、本地种群和南归种群的三面夹击，情势严峻。
As temperatures cool in 2020, the northern populations of the moth will return southward, and Yunnan may be hit by a triple whammy of continuing invasive populations, native populations and southerners.
真相三小心气候变化引发的虫灾暴发东非蝗灾和印巴蝗灾虽是两码事，但许多证据指出，各地虫灾的集中暴发，可能与近年来的气候变化有关。
Truth # 3 Watch out for insect outbreaks triggered by climate change While locust outbreaks in East Africa and locust infestation in India and Pakistan are two separate issues, there is much evidence that concentrated outbreaks of insect infestation in various locations may be linked to climate change in recent years.
这次东非蝗灾的起源地阿拉伯半岛南部沙漠是一片“无人区”，这里过度干旱，本是难觅生物的荒土。
The desert south of the Arabian Peninsula, the epicentre of locust infestation in East Africa, is a "no man's land," too arid to be viable.
但2018年的两个印度洋热带气旋“梅库纳”和“鲁班”给这片沙漠带来难得的降水，沙土被浸润为沙漠蝗孵化关键期所需要的较湿润土壤。
But in 2018, two Indian Ocean tropical cyclones, Mekuna and Luban, brought rare rainfall to the desert, and the sandy soil was soaked into the moist soil needed for the critical period of locust hatching.
条件适宜、无人监管，9个月内沙漠蝗无拘无束地繁衍了3代，数量增长8000倍，堪称沙漠蝗的孕育“狂欢”。
Conditions are appropriate, unsupervised, within nine months desert locusts unfettered for three generations, an increase of 8,000 times, can be regarded as the desert locust breeding "carnival."
FAO告诉南方周末记者，在近年来的记录中，如此规模的蝗虫激增是“空前的”。
The FAO told Southern Weekend that locusts of this scale had been "unprecedented" in recent years.
偶然中存在着必然。
There is necessity in chance.
近3年来，印度洋的气旋频率有所增加，对沙漠蝗虫大规模滋生起到一定作用。
Over the past three years, the frequency of cyclones in the Indian Ocean has increased, contributing to large-scale desert locust infestation.
2019年12月的另一场热带气旋引发了又一次繁殖高潮，可能会导致两代沙漠蝗的繁殖——相当于现有数量400倍的增长，情况可能会持续到2020年6月。
Another tropical cyclone in December 2019 triggered another reproductive climax that could lead to two generations of desert locusts - an increase of 400 times the current number, which is likely to continue until June 2020.
气候变化将如何改变害虫的扩散和繁殖，很难预计。
It is difficult to predict how climate change will alter the spread and reproduction of pests.
“因此，尽管沙漠蝗虫是古老的威胁，但如果当前热带气旋增加的趋势持续下去，那么非洲之角将来可能会遭遇更多起蝗虫暴发。
"Thus, while desert locusts are an ancient threat, if the current trend of increasing tropical cyclones continues, the Horn of Africa could face more locust outbreaks in the future.
”FAO回复南方周末记者称。
The FAO replied to Southern Weekend reporter.
《印度时报》一篇报道质疑，按照常理蝗虫应在7月—10月出现，而非冬季。
A Times of India report questioned whether the usual locusts should be in July-October, not winter.
专家分析，蝗虫习性的变化可能是由于印度季风季节延长和风向的改变。
Experts say the change in locust habits may be due to the prolonged monsoon season and changing winds in India.
亦有巴基斯坦官员认为，蝗虫过去常常在孵化一段时间后转移到伊朗，但这次可能由于气温低，使它们仍盘桓在巴基斯坦。
Pakistani officials also believe that locusts used to move to Iran after incubating for some time, but this time they may still linger in Pakistan because of low temperatures.
云南2019年的暖冬和2020年的春旱，也是滋生草地贪夜蛾的“好时节”。
A warm winter in 2019 and a spring drought in 2020 are also "good times" for moth breeding.
面对灾情压力，王强分析：“干旱适合虫子繁衍。
In the face of disaster stress, Wang Qiang analysis: "drought is suitable for insect breeding.
但如果雨水多了，虫害会少一点，作物病害却会多一点。
But if there is more rain, there will be fewer pests, but more crop diseases.
”不同的气象条件，需要农业部门调整不同的措施，虫口夺粮。
Different weather conditions require different measures by the agricultural sector to win the grain.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“蝗虫大军”暂时不来了，这些乌龙与真相仍要警惕。
"The army of locusts" is not coming for the time being, these oolong and the truth should remain vigilant.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "“蝗虫大军”暂时不来了，这些乌龙与真相仍要警惕";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; &
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
