海外记者眼中的广东“抗疫”和“复工”。
Overseas reporters in the eyes of Guangdong "anti-epidemic" and "back to work."
王紫。
Violet Wang.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲日本广播协会（NHK）记者采访顺威生产车间负责人。
Japanese Broadcasting Association (NHK) reporter interviewed Shunwei production workshop in charge.
（肖松/图）全文共2975字，阅读大约需要7分钟。
The full text is 2,975 words and takes about seven minutes to read.
湾区企业复工复产，还有不少“新招”：补贴员工返工交通费、与政府配合开设运输绿色通道、提前购置防疫物资……为了帮助产业链上下游企业顺利开工，顺威还向部分供应商捐赠了几千个口罩。
In order to help enterprises along the industrial chain to get back to work, Shunwei donated thousands of masks to some suppliers in order to help enterprises along the industrial chain get back to work.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末特约撰稿 王紫南方周末实习生 李睿童责任编辑 |姚忆江“新冠病毒是一场“全球危机”，将破坏每家企业的供应链。
This article began at Southern Weekend without authorization to reprint & # 160; & # 45; South Weekend Special Writer & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
”德国新闻电视频道网站援引美国亚马逊公司的内部邮件报道，从一个侧面表达了世界的担忧。
The website of the German news television channel Deutsche Welle quoted an internal e-mail report from Amazon.com as a way to convey the world's concerns.
《纽约时报》报道称，中国许多已开工的工厂，仍在以远低于产能的状态运行。
The New York Times reports that many of the factories that have been built in China are still operating well below capacity.
隔离措施、道路封锁，以及各地设置的检查站，使数百万工人无法重返工作岗位，供应线被切断。
Isolation measures, road closures and checkpoints prevented millions of workers from returning to work and cut supply lines.
据央视新闻报道，2月初，因新冠肺炎疫情造成来自中国的零部件供应暂时中断，韩国现代汽车不得不暂停本国的生产线。
Hyundai had to suspend production lines in the country in early February after an outbreak of pneumonia temporarily disrupted parts supplies from China, CCTV reported.
直到2月17日，随着中国部分零部件生产企业复工，现代汽车大多数生产线才得以恢复。
It was not until Feb. 17 that Hyundai's most production lines were restored with the resumption of some parts-making in China.
企业复工、人员流动、疫情防控……疫情究竟将对中国经济造成何种影响？这是日本广播协会（NHK）驻广东记者马场建夫一直关注的问题：作为全国制造业大省，广东常住人口1.13亿，其中外省流动人口有两千多万。
How will the epidemic affect China's economy? That's what NHK's Guangdong correspondent Jockey Club has been focusing on: Guangdong, the nation's largest manufacturing province, has a resident population of 113 million, of whom more than 20 million are from outside the province.
其实，通过搜索引擎不难发现，中国大陆网民对“复工、开学”等关键字的搜索热度大增，较前一个月上涨8倍。
In fact, it is not difficult to find through search engines, mainland Chinese Internet users to "back to work, school" and other keywords search fever increased significantly, up eight times from the previous month.
其中，北上广深四大一线城市是中国对于“复工”关注度最高的四个城市，究其原因，与一线城市聚集了大量企业和务工人员不无关系。
Among them, the four main cities in north shangguang and shenzhen are the four cities with the most concern about "returning to work." The reason is related to the large number of enterprises and laborers in the first-tier cities.
马场建夫还有些担忧，中国对世界经济至关重要，全球缺了中国这个“世界工作台”，将步履艰难。
The racetrack builder also has some concerns that China is vital to the world economy and will struggle without China as the world's "workbench."
遇到疫情风浪，广东作为中国经济巨轮上的一个重要“引擎”，“抗疫”和“复工”动力是否强劲？2020年2月18-19日，马场建夫和日本经济新闻社、日本朝日新闻、新加坡联合早报等33家中外主流媒体55名记者一道，走进广州和佛山企业孵化基地，一探究竟。
As an important engine of China's economy, is Guangdong strong in fighting SARS and resuming work? From February 18 to 19, 2020, Guangdong joined 55 journalists from 33 major Chinese and foreign media, including the Japan Economic News Agency, Asahi Shimbun and Singapore Lianhe Zaobao, to explore whether the company incubates in Guangzhou and Foshan.
1复工和供应链问题”能解决吗？广州市逐渐增加的车流，反映出人群的流动。
Can the problem of back-to-work and supply chain be solved? The increasing traffic in Guangzhou reflects the flow of people.
经过一个略显漫长的春节假期，企业陆续复工复产，返粤人流逐渐增加。
After a slightly long Spring Festival, enterprises have resumed work, Guangdong gradually increased the flow of people.
日本经济新闻社记者比奈田悠佑和助理陈彪，近日到日本在穗汽车企业跑了一趟，了解日资企业“复工和供应链问题”。
Japanese economic news agency reporter Yoyo Binada and assistant Chen Biao, recently went to Japan in Sui Motor enterprise, to understand the Japanese enterprises "back to work and supply chain problems."
“如果中国企业、工厂长时间不能复工，供应链断裂，有些海外企业可能就会开始考虑替换对策了，比如把生产线外迁、寻找其他合作方。
"If Chinese companies and factories don't get back to work for long periods and supply chains break down, some overseas companies may start thinking about alternatives, such as moving production lines out and looking for other partners."
”陈彪说。
'he said.
中国经济继续停工将导致国内和全球经济中的技术链和供应链中断，在相当程度上，世界经济依赖中国生产的原材料、零部件和成品。
Continued economic shutdown in China will lead to the disruption of technological chains and supply chains in the domestic and global economy, which to a considerable extent depends on raw materials, parts and finished products produced in China.
据了解，不少广东企业已于2月10日恢复运转，广东省各地正在为大规模的工人复工做准备。
It is understood that many Guangdong enterprises have resumed operations on February 10, Guangdong Province is preparing large-scale workers back to work.
广东本土企业复工程度如何、何时能完全复产？中国经济是否会受到持续影响？这一切，会不会在全球范围内形成连锁反应？在佛山顺德的广东格兰仕集团总部，电器配件制造部副部长熊智康告诉日本记者，2月10日复工以来，目前格兰仕顺德总部员工到岗四千余人，复工率已经达到81%，中山厂区复工率也在快速提升。
How and when will the local enterprises resume production? Will the Chinese economy continue to suffer? Will all this have ripple effects around the world? Xiong Zhikang, vice minister of electrical components manufacturing, told Japanese reporters that since resuming work on February 10, more than 4,000 people have returned to work at the headquarters of Granz Group in Foshan.
“在确保防疫安全、及时开工的同时，为了确保订单能顺利及时交货，我们提前向合作伙伴下订单、提前付款，推动上下游中小企业的生产热情，促进尽快复产。
"While ensuring the safety of epidemic prevention and the timely commencement of epidemic prevention, in order to ensure the smooth and timely delivery of orders, we advance orders to partners, advance payment, promote the production enthusiasm of upstream and downstream SMEs, and promote the resumption of production as soon as possible.
”格兰仕集团有限公司董事长梁昭贤解释。
Mr Leung, chairman of Hermes Group, explains.
格兰仕员工主要来自两广地区，“广西不少地方依然封路、封村，我们积极与当地政府沟通，为企业开出了员工开工证明，顺利将员工接回顺德厂区。
"Many places in Guangxi still closed roads and villages. We actively communicated with the local government, issued work-start certificates for enterprises, and smoothly returned staff to Shunde factory premises.
”梁昭贤介绍。
"said Mr Leung.
为了让生产车间尽快运转起来，不少企业决定派遣大巴车跨省接员工回厂，广东顺威精密塑料股份有限公司也采取了同样举措。
Many companies decided to send buses across provinces to take employees back to their factories in order to make production workshops run as soon as possible, and Guangdong Shunwei Precision Plastic Co. Ltd.
这家公司安排专门包车，跨省开到广西、湖南、江西等地，点对点开到家门口，接送因疫情封村或交通不便的员工到厂，近4天里，陆续接送了一百多名员工到位。
The company arranges special charters to drive across the province to Guangxi, Hunan and Jiangxi provinces, point-to-point to the door of their homes to transport employees to the factory due to the outbreak of the disease or difficult traffic, and in the last four days, more than 100 employees have been delivered to the factory.
顺威是大金、松下、东芝、三菱、麦克维尔、欧威尔、VTS、法雷奥、马瑞利等国际企业的供应商，其空调风机的复工生产情况，将直接影响到上述企业。
The resumption of production of air-conditioning fans by suppliers from international enterprises such as Dajin, Matsushita, Toshiba, Mitsubishi, McVere, Orwell, VTS, Fareo and Marrelli, will directly affect the above-mentioned enterprises.
除了大巴车跨省接送，香港大公报记者发现，湾区企业复工复产，还有不少“新招”：补贴员工返工交通费、与政府配合开设运输绿色通道、提前购置防疫物资……为了帮助产业链上下游企业顺利开工，顺威还向部分供应商捐赠了几千个口罩。
In addition to bus and bus service across the province, Hong Kong tabloid reporters found that there are many "new measures": subsidizing employees' rework transport costs, opening green corridors with the government, and purchasing epidemic prevention materials in advance... Shunwei donated thousands of masks to some suppliers in order to help enterprises along the industrial chain get off the ground.
“有些生产商急需口罩才能复工，我们在复工前通过多渠道采购口罩、消毒水，目前防护设备足够用三个月，当然应该协助合作伙伴们安全复工。
"Some manufacturers need masks urgently to get back to work. We are buying masks and disinfecting water through multiple channels before we get back to work.
”顺威集团战略及商务中心总监罗华表示。
Mr Luo, director of strategy and business centre at Shunwei Group, said.
特殊时期复工，健康与个人权益的保障，也是海外记者询问的焦点。
Resumption of work in special periods, protection of health and personal rights and interests are also the focus of inquiry from overseas journalists.
据了解，广东省政府出面，直接和劳务输出大省协调，直接开通专列，把外省农民工接回工厂，返岗复工。
It is understood that Guangdong Provincial Government, directly and labor export coordination, directly open special train, migrant workers back to the factory in the provinces, back to work.
云南也是农民工输出大省，广东干脆直接和云南协调，连续三天开通劳务协作返岗专列，把云南农民工接出来上班。
Yunnan is also a large migrant worker export province, Guangdong simply and Yunnan coordination, three days in a row to open labor cooperation back to the train, Yunnan migrant workers to work.
这样接外地员工安全返岗复工，又减少了路上交叉传染，而佩戴好口罩、检测体温、酒精喷洒双手、消毒鞋底……一系列步骤，是广东企业进门入园的“标配”。
This will reduce cross-infection while wearing a mask, testing body temperature, spraying hands with alcohol and disinfecting the soles of shoes... a series of steps is the "standard" for Guangdong enterprises to enter the garden.
根据广东全省工信系统疫情防控物资生产和工业企业复工复产电视电话会议，截至2月18日下午，广东省工业企业复工率超50%，阳江、珠海、佛山、韶关、广州等地市复工率位居前列。
By the afternoon of February 18, Guangdong industrial enterprises had resumed work at a rate of over 50 percent, and Yangjiang, Zhuhai, Foshan, Shaoguan and Guangzhou had the highest return rates.
2“企业比谁都着急”2月20日，广州市中山一路立交桥，又开启了久违多日的“堵车节奏”。
"Enterprise anxious than anyone" February 20, Guangzhou Zhongshan Road flyover bridge, opened a long time ago "traffic jam rhythm.
有网友发帖：“堵车的日子真好，谢谢钟老（钟南山）又让我们堵车了。
Some netizens post: "The day of traffic jam is really good, thank you Zhong Lao (Zhong Nan Shan) let us traffic jam again.
”而中国经济“汽车”，恰如在零下30度的天气里开启发动机。
And the Chinese economy's "car" is the equivalent of starting an engine in minus 30 degrees.
为了正常运转，中国经济需要升温，全面恢复常态尚需时日。
In order to function properly, China's economy needs to warm up, and it will take time for normalcy to return fully.
位于广州黄埔区的蓝月亮集团生产车间内，一线工人们工作紧张有序。
At the Blue Moon Group's production workshop in Huangpu District, Guangzhou, front-line workers work in an orderly fashion.
一瓶瓶84消毒液、抑菌洗手液、含氯漂白水等产品沿着传送带，不断运送穿行在各个窗口。
Bottle 84 disinfectant, antimicrobial hand sanitizer, chlorine bleach and other products along the conveyor belt, continuously transported through the various windows.
受疫情影响，消毒杀菌产品的需求量暴增。
Affected by the epidemic, the demand for disinfectant products has surged.
大年初二（1月26日），蓝月亮的数百名员工便已提前返岗，2月2日全面复工，24小时连续生产，大幅提升产能，目前消毒杀菌清洁防护用品日产能已超过400吨，是历史同期的3倍。
On February 2, hundreds of employees of the blue moon returned to work ahead of schedule. On February 2, they returned to work 24 hours a day, greatly increasing production capacity.
面对日本广播协会（NHK）的提问，集团市场部总监曾立群表示，为了缓解劳力短缺，蓝月亮不仅动员一线生产工人尽早复工，还协调二线员工加入生产一线。
In response to a question from the Japan Broadcasting Association (NHK), Zeng Liqun, the group's marketing director, said that to ease the labour shortage, Blue Moon was not only mobilizing front-line workers to return to work as soon as possible, but also coordinating second-line workers to join the production front.
对不少中大型企业来说，人手不足的问题普遍存在，有些地方甚至上演起“抢人大战”。
For many large and medium-sized enterprises, the problem of understaffing is widespread, and some places even staged a "war of robbery."
这个问题也引起了黄浦区政府的关注。
This issue has also attracted the attention of the Huangpu District government.
政府及时介入，帮助企业开拓招聘渠道，同时协调其他大型企业进行“共享用工资源”，目前，这些措施已大幅度缓解了人手短缺的状况。
The government's timely intervention to help companies open up recruitment channels and co-ordinate the use of "shared labour resources" by other large companies has significantly reduced staffing shortages.
“我们一直在上班。
"We've been at work.
春节期间，采用轮休方式，保证60%的员工在岗。
During the Spring Festival, 60 per cent of employees are employed on a rotational basis.
”达安基因副总经理张斌告诉南方周末，1月12日，新型冠状病毒基因序列公布后，短短一天时间，达安基因便研制出新型冠状病毒核酸检测试剂盒（PCR-荧光探针法），成为广东省内首家发布研制针对性核酸检测试剂的公司。
Zhang Bin, deputy general manager of DNA, told Southern Weekend that in just one day since the release of the new coronavirus gene sequence, the gene had developed a new coronavirus nucleic acid test kit (PCR-fluorescence probe), making it the first company in Guangdong Province to release a targeted nucleic acid test reagent.
现在，该公司每天能生产30万至50万人份试剂盒。
Today, the company produces between 300,000 and 500,000 test kits a day.
”广东顺威生产的空调风机扇叶，正是为武汉雷神山、火神山医院的通风系统提供空调、空气消毒设备厂家产品的关键部件。
The fan blade of Shunwei's air-conditioning fan is the key component of the ventilation system of Wuhan Lui Shen Shan and Huoshen Mountain Hospital's air-conditioning and air-disinfection equipment.
1月27日，首先是四川的一家为武汉火神山、雷神山医院提供空气消毒设备的公司找上了顺威。
January 27, the first is a Sichuan fire god mountain, Lei Shenshan Hospital to provide air disinfection equipment to find Shunwei.
之后几天里，他们又陆续收到了其他几家客户的订单，都是需要贯流风扇叶。
Over the next few days, they continued to receive orders from several other customers, all of which required fan blades to flow through.
从2月4日起复工，截至2月17日，顺威顺德总部已经有七百多人返回，到岗率60%，企业产能恢复约50%。
Work resumed on 4 February and, as at 17 February, more than 700 people had returned to Shunde headquarters, representing a 60 per cent return rate and a recovery in business capacity of about 50 per cent.
顺威公司总裁莫绮颜预计，在2月底能实现员工全员到岗，全线生产。
Yvonne Mo Yanyan, president of Shunwei Company, expects to achieve full-time staff by the end of February, production line.
与往年同时期相比，顺威的产销节奏难免有些滞后，追赶进度任务也压在了企业的肩头。
Compared with the same period in previous years, Shunwei's production and sales rhythm inevitably lags behind, catching up with the task of progress in the enterprise's shoulders.
所幸，顺威在佛山总部工厂自动化程度高，受疫情影响相对小，且泰国公司一直未停工，海外业务也保持平稳。
Fortunately, Shunwei's factory in Foshan is highly automated, relatively unaffected by the epidemic, Thai companies have not stopped work, and overseas business has remained steady.
深入多家广东企业，令不少海外记者印象深刻的是格兰仕总裁梁昭贤的一句话：“集团保留所有在湖北、武汉过年的员工干部岗位、福利、待遇等，决不会放弃任何一个湖北人、武汉人。
"The Group reserves all the posts, benefits and treatment of its staff who spend the New Year in Hubei and Wuhan and will never give up any Hubei and Wuhan people," said Hermes's president, Johan Liang.
”。
"
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
海外记者眼中的广东“抗疫”和“复工”。
Overseas reporters in the eyes of Guangdong "anti-epidemic" and "back to work."
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "海外记者眼中的广东“抗疫”和“复工”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
