对话痊愈后重返一线的武汉医生：治一个是一个，得对得起自己的良心。
Dialogue recovery after returning to the line of Wuhan doctor: treatment of a is a, have to live up to their conscience.
杨楠 蒯乐昊。
YangNan Quai Le Hao.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲2月6日，康复后重返岗位的柏慧、李春芳、赵智刚、郭琴（由左至右）在武汉大学中南医院急救中心合影 图 / 龚勇全文共3385字，阅读大约需要8分钟。
On February 6, Pak Hui, Li Chunfang, Zhao Zhigang and Guo Qin (from left to right) returned to work at Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital Emergency Centre. The full text of the photo / Gong Yong is 3385 words and takes about 8 minutes to read.
绝大多数轻症可自愈。
Most mild cases heal themselves.
少数病人会在染病后两周、三周，病情加重。
A few patients get worse two or three weeks after the illness.
这是病毒复制数最多的时候。
This is when the virus replicates the most.
封城之后陆陆续续染病的患者，正在面临重症考验本文转载自南方人物周刊文 |南方人物周刊记者 杨楠 蒯乐昊实习记者 刘睿睿 雷寒冰 李健祺抗击疫情的战役打响以来，至今已有逾三千名医务人员出现感染。
After the closure of the city, a trickle of patients is now facing a severe test. This article has been transmitted to over 3,000 medical staff since the start of the campaign by Southern personage weekly reporter Yang Nan Le Hao intern reporter Liu Rui Rui Lei Bing LI Kin-qi in the battle against the epidemic.
武汉大学中南医院急救中心副主任医师赵智刚，就是其中之一。
Zhao Zhigang, deputy director of emergency center of Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital, is one of them.
早在1月7日，赵智刚和他的急诊小组曾经接诊了一位53岁的胡姓患者。
As early as January 7, Zhao and his emergency team treated a 53-year-old Hu.
患者是黄冈菜市场的摊主，在接连高烧后转入中南医院急诊中心，病情相当严重。
The patient is Huanggang vegetable market stall owner, after successive high fever transfer to the Central South Hospital emergency center, the condition is quite serious.
为了给他插管，医生把手伸进他的口腔，气管导管插入呼吸道，患者的痰喷了出来，溅出浅浅血色的泡沫。
In order to intubate him, the doctor put his hand into his mouth, the tracheal tube inserted into the respiratory tract, and the patient's sputum spattered out, spilling out a pale, blood-colored foam.
几天后，这个小组的4名医护全部陆续染病。
A few days later, all four members of the team became ill.
1月22日，赵智刚被确诊，为了不占用本来已经非常紧张的住院床位，他主动要求回家隔离治疗。
On 22 January, Zhao was diagnosed and, in order not to occupy his already strained hospital bed, volunteered to return home for isolation and treatment.
23号凌晨两点，武汉宣布封城。
Wuhan declared the city closed at 2 a.m. on the 23rd.
看着同事们陷入了一场漫长而艰难的战役，缺席的赵智刚心急如焚。
Seeing his colleagues involved in a long and difficult battle, the absent Zhao Zhigang was very anxious.
病情刚有起色，他就报名加入了中南医院的在线专家团。
As soon as his condition began to improve, he signed up for an on-line expert mission to Zhongnan Hospital.
他是病人，也是医生，一边在家隔离治疗，一边为患者提供线上问诊服务，短短几天时间里，他服务了700多名患者。
He is a patient and a doctor, providing online consultation to patients while being treated in isolation at home, serving more than 700 patients in a matter of days.
赵智刚痊愈后，隔离治疗一结束，他马上返岗，出现在急救中心诊室，“形势还这么严峻，治一个是一个，我得对得起自己的良心。
Zhao Zhigang recovered, isolation treatment was over, he immediately returned to work, appeared in the emergency center room, "the situation is still so serious, a treatment is a, I have to live up to their conscience.
”南方人物周刊：中南医院作为武汉的“四大医院”之一，听说你们医院提升防护级别特别早。
"Southern Man Weekly: As one of Wuhan's" four big hospitals, "Zhongnan Hospital is said to have raised the level of protection particularly early.
赵智刚：我们在急诊中心，1月8号，我们病房就被征用为隔离病房了。
Zhao Zhigang: We are at the emergency center. On January 8th, our ward was requisitioned as an isolation ward.
先前我是病房主任，急诊是多系统的，它不是传染病房。
Previously I was the ward director, the emergency is multi-system, it is not infectious disease room.
但是临时被启动作为一个传染病的发热病房。
But was temporarily activated as an infectious disease in the fever ward.
在这之前，去年12月31号，武汉就发通知，所有武汉市的大型医院都要开24小时的发热门诊。
Before that, on December 31 last year, Wuhan announced that all major hospitals in Wuhan would open 24-hour fever clinics.
南方人物周刊：当时你们对这个疾病的认知是怎么样的？赵智刚：之前一直在说跟非典的对比，我们在12月底、1月初，就知道它跟非典不一样，传染病的基础处理是有一个流程的，没有哪一个管理层、卫生学家、公共卫生学者能够正确处理每一个环节。
ZHOU Zhigang: Before we talked about SARS, at the end of December and the beginning of January, we knew it was different from SARS. The basic treatment of infectious diseases is a process in which no management, hygienist or public health scholar can handle every link correctly.
就单纯拿医生来讲，他只能处理到他跟前的病人。
As far as the doctor is concerned, he can only deal with patients in front of him.
我们没法在整个社会管理的流程当中进行干预。
We can't intervene in the whole process of social management.
直到最近这段时间，整个抗击疫情工作才算有方向了，政策开始落地了。
Until recently, the whole fight against the epidemic was headed in the right direction, and policy began to fall.
南方人物周刊：您认为之前政策没有落地，为什么这么说？赵智刚：封城封住了吗？封城14天作为第一阶段的话，是一个足够长的时间，对于传染病来说，如果14天能做得很好，应该新增病人数量有明显的下降，但是14天后并没有明显改善。
ZHOU Zhigang: Is the closure of the city a long enough period of time for 14 days to be the first stage, and for infectious diseases there should be a significant reduction in the number of new patients, but after 14 days there is no significant improvement.
原因就是没有落地到位。
The reason is that it didn't arrive.
人还到处乱跑，病人也到处乱跑，没有床位住，重症病人收治不了，所以病死率就得不到改善。
People are running around, patients are running around, there are no beds, and serious patients cannot be treated, so the fatality rate does not improve.
现行政策是集中所有专家、包括外省来支援的专家，重点诊治重症患者，把重症病人的病死率尽量压低，因为前面的存量太高了。
The current policy is to bring together all specialists, including specialists from outside the province, to focus on treating the seriously ill and to keep the fatality rate as low as possible because the stock in front is too high.
南方人物周刊：现在专家中有一种看法，认为新冠病毒有可能像禽流感、流感一样，跟我们长期共存。
SOUTHERN PEOPLE WEEKLY: There is a perception among experts that the new crown virus could live with us for as long as bird flu and flu do.
赵智刚：长期共存其实是可以接受的。
Zhao Zhigang: Long-term coexistence is actually acceptable.
我们不能接受的是什么？病死率太高。
What is unacceptable to us? The fatality rate is too high.
目前的存量太多了。
There is too much stock at present.
封城之后陆陆续续染病的患者，大概要通过14天左右的时间进入重症。
After the closure of the city gradually infected patients, about 14 days to enter the serious illness.
也就是说，有基础疾病的染病者，会在很短时间里出现重症，但是绝大多数病人会集中在两周，甚至三周左右，病情才加重。
In other words, people with basic illnesses can develop serious illnesses in a very short time, but the vast majority of patients tend to gather for two or even three weeks before getting worse.
这是病毒的复制数最多的时候。
This is when the virus replicates the most.
所以当病人的基数太大之后——现在已经是几万的数字了——这个历史没法改写了，如果重症得不到控制，病死率就降不下来。
So when the patient's base is too large - now in the tens of thousands - the history cannot be rewritten, and if the disease remains unchecked, the fatality rate will not fall.
南方人物周刊：现在来看，早期把华南海鲜市场接触史作为确诊标准之一，是不是过于严了？它会把很多患者漏掉。
SOUTHERN PEOPLE WEEKLY: Now, isn't the early history of exposure to the South China seafood market one of the criteria for diagnosis too severe? It will leave many patients out.
赵智刚：很多人在纠结诊断标准，诊断标准一般都是非常严谨的，但最后执行的人是活的。
Zhao Zhigang: Many people are entangled in the diagnostic criteria, the diagnostic criteria are generally very strict, but the final executor is alive.
一开始对疫情其实是“外松内紧”的，结果没紧住。
Initially, the outbreak was "loose and tight," and the results were not contained.
因为紧的话应该是我们武汉“四大医院”设立发热门诊，尽量收治。
Because the tight word should be our Wuhan "four big hospitals" to set up a fever clinic, as far as possible.
但是没有人告诉医生大致的染病人数。
But no one told the doctor the approximate number of cases.
医院不可能一下子就开出2000张传染病床位。
It is impossible for hospitals to open 2, 000 infectious disease beds at once.
那时候的通报数字才报几十例。
Only a few dozen notifications were reported at that time.
我们当时就按照60例、70例来准备，没想到只到1月10号就全都收满了。
We were prepared on the basis of 60 cases and 70 cases, only to have them filled by January 10.
ICU的16张床位，感染科室30个床位，加上急诊中心15张床位，两天就收了六十多个病人。
The ICU's 16-bed, 30-bed infection unit, plus a 15-bed emergency center, admitted more than 60 patients in two days.
南方人物周刊：后来把CT作为辅助诊断的标准之一，据说很多病人的CT都会出现“白肺”，这种“白肺”是新冠肺炎所特有的表征吗？赵智刚：这个疾病的CT影像是独特的，跟其他病毒感染不一样。
CHIU Zhigang: The CT image of this disease is unique, unlike other viral infections, and it is said that many patients have a "white lung" on their CT, which is a characteristic sign of pneumonia.
它以胸膜下的渗出为主，然后沿着支气管影爬行，然后出现斑片状的渗出。
It is dominated by subpleural effusion, and then crawls along the bronchial shadow, followed by patchy exudation.
斑片状或者磨玻璃影来说，其他病毒性感染或者致病体导致的肺炎都会形成，但是新冠肺炎的差异性还是非常典型的。
In the case of plaque or ground glass, pneumonia may result from other viral infections or disease-causing agents, but the differences are typical.
南方人物周刊：封城之后，因为医疗力量不足，一度呼吁过居家隔离，结果导致更多的家庭聚集性传染，现在看来居家隔离是不是问题挺大？赵智刚：居家隔离问题不大，只是他们采用的方式不对。
CHIU Zhigang: After the closure of the city, because of the lack of medical care, once called for family isolation, resulting in more families gathering for sexual transmission, it seems that the problem is not big? Zhao Zhigang: Segregation is not a big problem at home, only they use it in the wrong way.
这个病，有百分之八十的病人，比如说我，就是喝点水、吃点药就能好了。
Eighty percent of the patients with this disease, like me, just drink some water and take some medicine.
抗病毒治疗，你选用任何一个抗病毒药，早期是可以控制的，绝大多数病人是轻症，可以自愈。
Antiviral treatment, you choose any antiviral drugs, early can be controlled, the vast majority of patients are mild, self-healing.
居家隔离没做好的主要原因是：病人离医生护士太远了，得病了他自己没法判断，他没地方求救，公共资源也不够，去看病发现病人太多了，根本排不上，就恐慌了。
The main reason for the poor segregation was that the patient was too far from the doctor and nurse to judge for himself, that he had no place to call for help, that public resources were insufficient, and that he had gone to see a doctor who found that there were too many patients to fill in.
你发烧了三四天，你自己没信心了，你也不懂医学，你哪知道能不能活，就大家都乱套了，还有一个很大的问题是，中国人对传染病的认识不够。
You have been feverish for three or four days, you have no confidence in yourself, you don't know medicine, you don't know whether you can live or not, everyone is confused, and a big problem is that Chinese people do not know enough about infectious diseases.
宣传不到位，社会、网络支持也不够，导致居家隔离不严格。
Lack of awareness-raising, social, network support is also insufficient, resulting in the isolation of the house is not strict.
居家隔离需要非常严格的空间隔开，一定要有独立的一套卫生系统，你居家隔离，家人照顾你也只能把饭菜放在你门口，你要吃饭，或者上厕所，只能严格在你自己房间里，很多人做不到，或者家里不具备这个条件。
Isolation in your home requires a very rigid space separated by a separate health system, you are isolated at home, your family can only take care of your meals at your door, you have to eat, or you have to go to the toilet, you have to stay strictly in your own room, many people can't do it, or the family doesn't have it.
如果做到了，居家隔离是没问题的。
If you do, there's no problem with home isolation.
南方人物周刊：您也是在这个阶段，抱病参加了中南医院的在线专家团，给病人提供线上问诊。
SOUTHERN PEOPLE WEEKLY: It was also during this period that you became ill and participated in an on-line expert mission to the Central and South Hospital to provide online consultations for patients.
赵智刚：我昨天还在跟同事聊这个事情。
Zhao Zhigang: I was still talking about it with my colleagues yesterday.
对于公共卫生事件的防控，我们国家的投入是最少的，因为这对GDP没有什么增加，是一个纯投入型的领域。
Our country's commitment to the prevention and control of public health events is minimal, as it does not add much to GDP and is a purely input area.
你以成熟的心态去看，确实前期投入就不够，你让体系怎么能突然迎接公共卫生危机呢？你的CDC、你的医院各方面都没有预备条件，科学家团队也没有做好准备。
How can you let the system suddenly meet the public health crisis? Your CDC, your hospital are unprepared, and the team of scientists is unprepared.
咱们毕竟还是一个发展中国家。
After all, we are still a developing country.
好比你兜里只有10块钱，你想干吗？你会不吃不喝，拿这10块钱都去买个保险，留着看病吗？肯定不是，你宁可赌你不会生病。
If you had only ten dollars in your pocket, what would you have done with it? Would you buy insurance and keep it for ten bucks to see a doctor?
南方人物周刊：为什么在这次疫情中，有那么多医护人员染病？包括您自己。
SOUTHERN PEOPLE WEEKLY: Why did so many healthcare workers get sick in this outbreak, including yourself?
你和你的同事经历了什么？赵智刚：病毒性肺炎它以不同的情况进入到各个科室之后，各个科室就会沦陷。
What has happened to you and your coworkers? Zhao Zhigang: Viral pneumonia It goes into different departments and offices, and the departments fall down.
本来其他科室是干净的，但在接诊过程中，整个医院全部变成一个污染区。
Other departments were originally clean, but in the course of the consultation, the entire hospital was turned into a contaminated area.
我们是一家综合性医院，建筑设计之初就不是按照传染病来设计的，没有办法严格地做到洁、污分开，你在医疗环境下的一切操作都可能造成暴露。
We are a general hospital, architectural design is not designed in accordance with infectious diseases, there is no way to strictly clean, decontamination separate, all your operations in the medical environment can cause exposure.
我们的病房不具备ICU功能，它不是负压的房间，也无法做到三区分合、医患两通道……就算你没有接触病人，但是你在这个区域，你们共用一套中央空调系统，那这栋楼里面所有人都有暴露风险。
Our ward does not have ICU function, it is not a negative pressure room, nor can it be three-way, doctor-patient channel... even if you do not have contact with patients, but you share a central air conditioning system in this area, then everyone in this building is exposed.
所以现在我们都关掉了中央空调，然后开窗通风。
So now we all turn off the central air conditioner and open the windows for ventilation.
所以我跟我的同事们讲，既然我们做不出一个纯的洁净区，那我们就默认所有地方都是污染区，既然我不能够判断我的同事有没有感染，我们就认为他已经被感染了。
So I told my colleagues, since we can't make a pure clean area, we're going to acquiesce to all the contaminated areas, and since I can't tell if any of my colleagues are infected, we think he's infected.
要保持两米距离，就算对面是你的亲戚、朋友、领导，你都要把他当成一名携带者或者传染源。
To maintain a distance of two meters, even if you are opposite your relatives, friends, leaders, you have to treat him as a carrier or source of infection.
南方人物周刊：为什么判断病人是否新冠肺炎这么滞后？之前的报道说试剂盒不够、检测速度慢、包括染病者无症状、或者隐瞒病史，现在又有假阳性、假阴性，病毒真的如此狡猾？赵智刚：我们对一个新疾病的认识，缺陷还是很大的。
CHIU Zhigang: Why is it so late in judging whether patients are suffering from pneumonia? Previous reports have suggested that there are not enough test kits, slow detection, including asymptomatic or concealed medical history, and that the virus is now false positive and false negative.Zhao Zhigang: Our understanding of a new disease is very flawed.
到目前来说，你并不能确定你面前这个人百分百就是新冠肺炎，或者他百分百不是新冠肺炎，那就一定有20%-30%是漂移的，这就是自然科学。
So far, you can't be sure that the man in front of you is 100% New Crown Pneumonia, or if he's not 100% New Crown Pneumonia, then 20% -30% must be drifting. That's natural science.
南方人物周刊：你自己感觉，轻症对你来说，好转的标志是什么？赵智刚：我病到第八、九天的样子，整个人就轻松了。
ZHOU: What do you think is the sign of improvement for you? Zhao Zhigang: When I get sick for eight or nine days, I feel relaxed.
心肺功能的状态，都不再感觉费力。
The state of the cardiopulmonary function no longer feels effortless.
这个病，80%的患者都是轻症，肯定能好，你喝水也能好。
This disease, 80% of the patients are mild, sure to be good, you can also drink good.
直播雷神山收治，好多病人都是自己提着锅碗瓢盆走进去的，他们肯定不是重症。
Live thunder Shenshan treatment, many patients are carrying their own pots and pans to go, they are certainly not seriously ill.
真正重症走路费力，连呼吸都很困难。
Really severe walking effort, even breathing is very difficult.
南方人物周刊：有个患者跟我说，她病到某一天突然想吃东西，有食欲，他就觉得自己开始好起来了，您有没有这样子的情况？赵智刚：绝大多数病人都会有转折。
ZHOU Zhigang: One patient told me that one day she was ill and she had a craving for food, and he thought he was beginning to feel better.
某一天觉得人特别轻松，有可能那一天就不发烧了，也可能那一天他本来拉肚子结果不拉了，有可能那天他口苦突然就不苦了。
One day feel particularly relaxed, may not have a fever that day, or that day he should have diarrhea results, it is possible that he suddenly bitter bitter not bitter.
每个人的症状不一样，但是从某一个时间点开始，他就觉得自己好起来了。
Everyone has different symptoms, but from a certain point in time, he feels better.
中国人物类媒体的领导者提供有格调、有智力的人物读本记录我们的命运·为历史留存一份底稿。
Chinese character media leaders provide stylish, intellectual characters to read books that record our destinies... save a manuscript for history.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
对话痊愈后重返一线的武汉医生：治一个是一个，得对得起自己的良心。
Dialogue recovery after returning to the line of Wuhan doctor: treatment of a is a, have to live up to their conscience.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "对话痊愈后重返一线的武汉医生：治一个是一个，得对得起自己的良心";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
