解剖遗体法医刘良：如果患者气道粘液没化解，给氧会起反作用。
Anatomical body forensic Liu Liang: If the patient airway mucus is not resolved, oxygen will be counterproductive.
张笛扬。
Zhang Deyang.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲刘良和他的团队，右二为刘良。
Liu Liang and his team, right two for Liu Liang.
（校方供图/图）全文共1927字，阅读大约需要5分钟。
The full text is 1927 words and takes about 5 minutes to read.
临床治疗上，如果粘液没有被化解的情况下给患者单纯给氧，可能达不到目的，有时还会起反作用。
On the clinical treatment, if the mucus is not resolved in the case of giving the patient pure oxygen, may not achieve the goal, and sometimes it is counterproductive.
2003年为应对SARS疫情，北京和广东曾专门建设过符合生物安全要求的负压解剖室，但此后长期没有再发生类似疫情，那些解剖室就几乎荒废了，“据我所知，目前国内几乎没有达标的解剖室”。
In 2003, in response to the SARS epidemic, Beijing and Guangdong had built anatomical negative pressure rooms that met biosafety requirements, but since then the anatomy rooms have been almost abandoned. "As far as I know, there are few anatomical rooms up to standard in China."
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 张笛扬责任编辑 | 吴筱羽三例新冠肺炎逝者的遗体解剖和病理学分析已经完成。
The autopsy and pathologic analysis of the bodies of three deceased patients with Newly Coronary Pneumonia has been completed.
2020年2月16日，全国首例新冠肺炎逝者遗体解剖工作在武汉市金银潭医院结束，由湖北省司法鉴定协会会长、华中科技大学同济医学院法医病理学教授刘良及其团队完成。
On February 16, 2020, the autopsy of the remains of the country's first deceased cases of pneumonia was completed at the gold and silver pool hospital in Wuhan by Liu Liang, president of the Hubei Provincial Judicial Accreditation Association and professor of forensic pathology at Tongji Medical School of Huazhong University of Science and Technology and his team.
截至2月24日，刘良及其团队共解剖了9例新冠肺炎患者遗体。
As of February 24, Liu and his team had dissected the remains of nine patients with pneumonia.
刘良透露，其团队和华中科技大学附属同济医院病理科教授王国平的团队合作，已完成3例病理检查诊断工作，详细的解剖报告将在近日发布。
Liu revealed that his team and the team of Wang Guoping, professor of pathology attached to Tongji Hospital of Huazhong University of Science and Technology, have completed three pathologic diagnoses, the detailed autopsy report will be released in the near future.
剩余6例还有待免疫组化、特殊染色等更深入的检查研究。
The remaining 6 cases have yet to be further examined by immunohistochemistry and special staining.
2月24日晚，刘良和王国平在线接受了包括南方周末在内的媒体采访。
On the night of Feb. 24, Liu Liang and Wang Guoping gave a media interview, including Southern Weekend.
1损害的不只是肺“新冠肺炎是新发疾病，我们之前对它的发病机制、致死机制没有很多研究。
It's not just the lungs that are hurting. "New crown pneumonia is a new disease, and we haven't done much research on its pathogenesis and mechanisms of death.
病毒到底攻击人体哪一个器官、组织、细胞，也是不清楚的。
It is also unclear which organs, tissues and cells the virus attacks.
”刘良解释，对新冠肺炎死亡患者遗体的解剖有助于厘清这些问题。
Anatomy of the bodies of patients who died from pneumonia in the New Crown could help clarify these issues, Liu explained.
刘良团队解剖的9例遗体中，男女比例基本相当，但年龄偏大，多在60-70岁，年纪最大的超过80岁，最小的是52岁。
Of the 9 bodies dissected by Liu Liang's team, the male and female figures were about the same, but they were older, mostly between the ages of 60 and 70, with the oldest being over 80 and the youngest 52.
目前，刘良和王国平的团队已完成其中3例的病理检查诊断。
At present, Liu Liang and Wang Guoping's team have completed the pathologic diagnosis of 3 cases.
刘良告诉南方周末记者，新冠肺炎和SARS病毒引发的肺炎在病变上有相似性，但新冠肺炎也有其特点。
Liang told Southern Weekend reporter that pneumonia caused by Newcastle Pneumonia and SARS virus is similar in pathological changes, but New Crown Pneumonia has its own characteristics.
显微镜下，刘良在新冠肺炎死者的肺部切片发现，其中有很多粘液性的分泌物。
Microscopically, Liu Liang found a lot of mucous secretions in the lungs of those who died of Newcrown Pneumonia.
“分泌物的出现，说明临床治疗是要提高警惕的。
"The appearance of secretions suggests that clinical treatment should be vigilant.
”新冠肺炎患者的肺泡功能会受到损伤，气道如果又被粘液堵住了，临床上就会出现缺氧的表现。
Patients with Newly Coronary Pneumonia have impaired alveolar function, and if the airway is blocked with mucus, hypoxia can develop clinically.
刘良表示，“若要改善患者的缺氧状态，需要把气道打通，必须把粘液稀释、溶解。
"To improve the hypoxia status of patients, we need to open the airway, we must dilute and dissolve mucus," Liu said.
”刘良强调，临床治疗上，如果粘液没有被化解的情况下给患者单纯给氧，可能达不到目的，有时还会起反作用。
"Liang stressed that in clinical treatment, giving patients oxygen only if the mucus is not resolved may not achieve the goal and can sometimes be counterproductive.
“正压给氧的话，可能会把粘液推得更深、更广，会加重患者的缺氧。
"Positive pressure on oxygen may push the mucus deeper and wider, aggravating the lack of oxygen in the patient.
”此外，从解剖案例中发现，新冠肺炎的病变不仅会损害肺，还可能对免疫系统和身体其他器官造成损害。
In addition, in autopsy cases, it was found that the lesions of Newly Coronary Pneumonia not only damage the lungs, but also damage the immune system and other organs of the body.
新冠肺炎患者的遗体解剖也有利于揭示病毒的传播途径。
Anatomy of the remains of patients with Newly Coronary Pneumonia is also helpful to reveal the transmission route of the virus.
刘良团队在解剖时对患者的不同器官做了核酸检测。
Liu's team performed nucleic acid tests on different organs of the patient during the autopsy.
他表示，“在一些器官上发现了病毒，也有些器官排除了，但不同病例、不同脏器的结果还不太一致，这些问题还要进一步分析。
"Viruses have been found in some organs and organs have been excluded, but the results are not consistent across cases and organs," he said.
”之前有学者曾提出，一些新冠肺炎重症患者会暴发心肌炎或俗称“心碎综合征”的应激性心肌病。
Previous researchers have suggested that some people with severe coronary pneumonia may experience myocarditis or stress cardiomyopathy, commonly known as "heartbreak syndrome."
刘良回应称，新冠肺炎导致暴发性心肌炎的可能还需进一步讨论，但导致“心碎综合征”的可能性较小。
Liu responded that the possibility of fulminant myocarditis caused by Newcastle pneumonia needed further discussion, but was less likely to cause "heartbreak syndrome."
除刘良团队外，目前武汉还有上海瑞金医院为主体的一个团队在做新冠肺炎逝者的遗体解剖工作，已解剖了两例。
In addition to Liu Liang's team, Wuhan and Shanghai Ruijin Hospital as the main body of a team in the New Crown Pneumonia deceased autopsy, has dissected two cases.
王国平表示，“从科学研究角度上讲，解剖的数量越多越好，现在一共有11例，反映的结果可以从一定程度上说明问题了。
"From a scientific point of view, the higher the number of autopsies, the better, there are now 11," Wang said, reflecting results that speak for themselves.
”2“目前国内几乎没有达标的解剖室”59岁的刘良从事法医病理学工作已有三十多年，曾参与多个要案的尸检工作，如武汉理工大学程树良教授嫖娼致死案、湖北巴东县冉建新提审猝死案等，在安徽黄山“陷警门”案中，刘良还曾作为刑诉法修订后的第一位专家辅助人出庭作证。
"Liu Liang, 59, has worked in forensic pathology for more than 30 years and has participated in autopsies in important cases, such as the death of Professor Cheng Shuuliang of Wuhan Polytechnic University and the sudden death of Wang Jian in Badong County, Hubei Province.
17年前，刘良也曾对SARS逝者做过遗体解剖。
Seventeen years ago, Liu Liang also performed autopsies on the deceased SARS patients.
令他印象深刻的是，SARS期间的病理解剖比现在还要快一点，在国内出现死亡病例的十几天后，病理解剖就已启动。
He was impressed by the fact that the pathology of SARS was a little faster than it is now, and that the pathologic autopsy had begun a few days after the death in the country.
新冠肺炎疫情暴发后，刘良的团队在1月24日向湖北省有关部门提交了报告，强调了尸检的必要性和可行性。
Liu's team submitted a report to authorities in Hubei province on January 24 after the outbreak of the outbreak, stressing the necessity and feasibility of an autopsy.
29日，他们收到了同意的批复。
On 29 June, they received a favourable reply.
刘良随后联系了多家医院，“所有医生都说这个好，但涉及特定方案的时候，医院需要请示汇报”。
Liu then contacted a number of hospitals, "all doctors said this is good, but when it comes to specific programs, hospitals need to report."
此外，医院缺少解剖所需场地，同时也担心解剖风险。
In addition, the hospital lacked the space needed for the autopsy and was concerned about the anatomical risks.
刘良很着急，如果不及时做病理解剖的话，“对抢救治疗有延误，对将来的研究也有影响”。
Liu Liang is very anxious, if not do a pathologic autopsy in time, "rescue treatment has been delayed, the future of the study also have an impact."
之后，他在多个场合公开呼吁解剖的必要性。
After that, he made public appeals on several occasions about the need for an autopsy.
2月15日，国家卫健委医政医管局邀请刘良参加新冠肺炎尸检相关事宜会议。
On February 15, the National Hospital Authority invited Liu Liang to attend a meeting on autopsy-related matters related to New Crown Pneumonia.
2月15日21:00，刘良接到金银潭医院院长张定宇的电话，“有一个可以做解剖了”。
On February 15 at 21: 00, Liu Liang received a telephone call from Zhang Dingyu, the director of the gold and silver pool hospital.
16日凌晨3:50，在金银潭医院的负压手术室内，刘良完成了首例患者遗体解剖，14小时后，他们又完成了第二例遗体解剖工作。
At 3: 50 am, Liu Liang completed the first autopsy of the patient's body in the negative pressure operating room of the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital. A second autopsy was completed 14 hours later.
解剖前，刘良和他的团队会专门向遗体默哀。
Before the autopsy, Liu Liang and his team observed a moment of silence.
解剖新冠肺炎患者的遗体需要较高等级的防护设备，在物资紧张的武汉，刘良团队同样面临缺少防护物资的局面。
Anatomy of the remains of patients with Newly Coronary Pneumonia requires a higher level of protective equipment, and in Wuhan, where supplies are tight, Liu's team also faces a shortage of protective materials.
做完几例解剖工作后，刘良感受到，通过媒体宣传，患者和家属更了解了遗体解剖，有临床医生向他反映，现在跟家属沟通遗体捐赠时，家属的接受度比以前好。
After several cases of autopsy, Liu felt that, through media campaigns, the patient and his family had learned more about the autopsy, and a clinician had told him that the family was now more receptive when communicating with family members about the donation of the body.
但解剖场地还是没能解决。
But the anatomy site remained unsolved.
“解剖室不达标的话，会导致解剖的延缓和对解剖担忧。
"Anatomical room substandard words can lead to anatomical delays and concerns about anatomy.
”刘良介绍，2003年为应对SARS疫情，北京和广东曾专门建设过符合生物安全要求的负压解剖室，但此后长期没有再发生类似疫情，那些解剖室就几乎荒废了，“据我所知，目前国内几乎没有达标的解剖室”。
Liu said that in 2003 Beijing and Guangdong had built anatomical negative pressure rooms that met biosafety requirements in response to the SARS epidemic, but since then the anatomy rooms have been almost dilapidated and "to my knowledge there are few anatomical rooms up to standard in China."
“不能再出现像今天这样的滞后局面了。
"We can't afford a lag like the one we have today.
”刘良建议，为应对突发疫情，各地区都应建设达标的尸检室。
"Liu suggested that in order to deal with sudden outbreaks, all regions should build up post-mortem examination rooms that meet the standards.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
解剖遗体法医刘良：如果患者气道粘液没化解，给氧会起反作用。
Anatomical body forensic Liu Liang: If the patient airway mucus is not resolved, oxygen will be counterproductive.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "解剖遗体法医刘良：如果患者气道粘液没化解，给氧会起反作用";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Anatomized body forensic physician Liu Liang: If the patient's airway mucus has not been resolved, oxygenation has had the opposite effect;;;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
