“不是这次疫情，很多人不知道中国在全球产业链有多重要”。
"Not this time, many people do not know how important China is in the global industrial chain."
黄金萍。
Duckweed.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲春节前，日本生活空间nikoand在上海开设全球最大旗舰店，开业当天，成百上千的消费者在淮海中路分批排队，预计等待时间超2小时。
Before the Spring Festival, Nikoand opened the world's largest flagship store in Shanghai, where hundreds of shoppers queued up for more than two hours on Huaihai Road.
（IC Photo/图）全文共4776字，阅读大约需要10分钟。
The full text will take 4776 words and will take about 10 minutes to read.
以产业链为纽带，各国企业共克时艰，这也是前所未有的事情。
With the industrial chain as the link, enterprises in all countries to overcome difficulties, this is also unprecedented.
“要不是这次疫情，很多人不知道中国在全球产业链中到底有多重要。
"Without this outbreak, many people do not know how important China really is in the global industrial chain.
”鸿海科技集团郑州工厂恢复产能的进度，很大程度上决定了苹果公司这一季度的营收，以及全球消费者拿到新款手机的时间。
The pace at which Zhengzhou Factory, the Hon Hai tech group, has recovered capacity has largely determined Apple's quarterly revenues and the timing of new phone purchases by consumers around the world.
“就在这短短3个月时间，智利一般要卖出10亿美金车厘子，其中90%都销往中国。
"In just three months, Chile typically sells about $1bn of its cars, 90 per cent of which goes to China.
”本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 黄金萍责任编辑 | 冯叶作为全球第一大出口国与第二大进口国，中国正在全力遏制新冠肺炎病毒，多个省市临时决定顺延春节假期，将开工时间推到2月10日，有些甚至更晚。
FengYe, the world's largest exporter and second-largest importer, is struggling to contain the new crown pneumonia virus, with several provinces and cities temporarily extending the holiday to February 10 or even later.
这令全球经济也跟着“打了一个喷嚏”。
This led to a "sneeze" in the global economy.
不仅是中国的供应链卡了壳，中国人原本强劲的消费力也暂时消失了。
Not only is China's supply chain stuck, but the country's otherwise strong spending power has temporarily evaporated.
据美联社2020年2月9日报道，在意大利米兰的奢侈品购物区蒙特纳波隆，几十个奢侈品牌装饰了他们的橱窗，就为了迎接中国新年。
Dozens of luxury brands are decorating their windows for the Chinese New Year at Montana Boron, Italy's luxury shopping district.
但中国消费者没有如期而至。
But Chinese consumers did not follow suit.
全球约三分之一的奢侈品消费来自中国。
China accounts for about a third of global luxury consumption.
在意大利，他们的消费超过了俄罗斯人、阿拉伯人和美国人的总和。
In Italy, they consume more than Russians, Arabs and Americans combined.
作为国际石油交易基准的布伦特(Brent)原油价格，从2020年1月初的每桶70美元跌至2月10日的55美元左右，部分原因是中国需求疲弱。
The price of Brent, the benchmark for international oil trading, fell from $70 a barrel in early January 2020 to about $55 a barrel on February 10, in part because of weak demand in China.
中国是包括石油在内的许多大宗商品的全球最大进口国。
China is the world's largest importer of many commodities, including oil.
2月19日，据国务院联防联控机制新闻发布会，广东、江苏、上海等一些经济大省（市）规模以上的工业企业复工率超过50%。
On February 19, according to a press conference of the State Council's Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism, the reactivation rate of industrial enterprises above the size of some major economic provinces or cities exceeded 50 percent in Guangdong, Jiangsu and Shanghai.
2018年10月4日，土耳其伊斯坦布尔的一家奢侈品商店前，排着进店购物的中国游客。
Chinese shoppers line up in front of a luxury store in Istanbul, Turkey, Oct. 4, 2018.
但2020年的春节，这些奢侈品店没有等来中国消费者。
But for the 2020 Spring Festival, these luxury stores are not waiting for Chinese consumers.
（IC Photo/图）1 消费：延缓进口作为全球第二大进口国，中国是食品、电影票、汽车以及其它商品的主要买家。
China, the world's second-largest importer, is a major buyer of food, movie tickets, cars and other goods.
过去一段时间，这些商品不得不放缓进入中国的步伐。
These commodities have had to slow down their entry into China for some time.
徐鸿斌是北京一家中型规模进出口贸易公司的负责人，他的公司近些年开始从俄罗斯进口小麦、牛奶、蜂蜜、酸黄瓜等各色农产品。
Xu Hongbin, head of a medium-sized import and export trading company in Beijing, began importing wheat, milk, honey and cucumbers from Russia in recent years.
“与世界上大多数产麦区不同，俄罗斯最好的小麦生长在北纬50度（大多数长在北纬40度），那里的土壤相当于东北的黑土地。
"Unlike most wheat-growing regions of the world, the best wheat in Russia grows at 50 degrees north latitude (mostly 40 degrees north latitude), where the soil corresponds to the black land in the northeast.
”与南方周末记者谈起这些进口产品，徐鸿斌很是兴奋。
Xu Hongbin was excited about talking to Southern Weekend reporter about the imports.
春节前，徐鸿斌就安排好了节后前往俄罗斯的行程。
Before the Spring Festival, Xu Hongbin arranged a trip to Russia after the festival.
但受疫情影响，他不得不取消这些计划。
But affected by the epidemic, he had to cancel the plans.
几家俄罗斯供货商每天通过微信和邮件询问他，什么时候需求才能恢复。
Several Russian suppliers asked him daily by micromail and e-mail when demand would resume.
徐鸿斌有些无奈，他暂时也没办法进口更多产品。
Xu Hongbin is a little helpless, he is also temporarily unable to import more products.
一方面，春节前的存货还躺在中国的仓库里，因交通、物流没有完全恢复正常，无法发往全国各地的商超。
On the one hand, the stock before Spring Festival is still lying in the warehouse in China, because the traffic, logistics and not completely normal, can not send to all parts of the country.
他刚去过一趟天津，因为要从天津港进口，他的仓库设在那里。
He has just been to Tianjin because he wants to import from Tianjin Port, where his warehouse is located.
他得知，天津港也面临 “爆仓”的局面，进口货物仍在源源不断地进来，但所有码头均堆满了集装箱却发不出去。
He was told that Tianjin Port was also facing a "depot" situation, with imported goods still pouring in, but all the terminals were full of containers but could not go out.
天津港是京津冀及华北最大的港口。
Tianjin Port is the largest port in Beijing, Tianjin and North China.
中国食品土畜进出口商会2月10日发布消息称，接到交通部水运局公告，目前天津上海港口堆放冷藏箱运力已满，建议近期企业到港不要选择天津和上海，并贴出了其他可能尚有能力接受货物的港口。
Tianjin and Shanghai are advised not to choose Tianjin and Shanghai in the near future and have posted other ports that may be able to accept the goods, the Ministry of Communications (MCT) said on Tuesday.
好在部分物流恢复了，于是，徐鸿斌雇佣了一些高价的临时工，先通过电商给零售客户发货。
Fortunately, part of the logistics resumed, so Xu hired some high-priced casual workers to deliver the goods to retail customers first through an electrical vendor.
“临时工一天要300元。
"Temporary workers cost 300 yuan a day.
”他说，过去只要一半价钱，而货车司机则更紧俏，再高的价格都难以找到。
In the past, he said, it used to cost half as much, while truck drivers were tighter and harder to find at higher prices.
这也是徐鸿斌为什么放弃进口的第二个原因。
That is the second reason why Xu gave up imports.
因为人力、物流等成本的上涨，商品价格自然水涨船高，所以消费者这段时间只会购买生活必需品，放弃一些原本价格就更高的进口商品。
As the cost of labor, logistics and so on rises, commodity prices rise naturally, so consumers will only buy the necessities of life this time, giving up some of the original higher prices of imported goods.
这段时间，进口价格反而会下降，但徐鸿斌不敢冒险。
In the meantime, import prices would fall, but Xu did not dare to take risks.
比如俄罗斯牛奶，保质期6个月，从海上运到中国要45天，可一旦超过3个月，就没有超市愿意进货了。
Russian milk, for example, has a shelf life of six months and it takes 45 days to ship it by sea to China, but once more than three months have passed, no supermarket wants it.
“全球互通太频繁了，现在中国感冒了。
"There is so much global connectivity, and now China has a cold.
”徐鸿斌对南方周末记者说，“其它国家都很难受。
"Other countries are suffering," Xu told Southern Weekend reporter.
”据《亚洲水果》杂志报道，智利政府与智利水果出口商协会近日发布评估数据，称目前智利水果出口的收入损失可能高达1亿美元。
The Chilean government and the Chilean Fruit Exporters' Association recently released estimates that the loss of revenue from Chilean fruit exports could be as high as $100 million, the magazine reported.
其中，损失最大的就是车厘子。
Among them, the biggest loss is Caituzi.
自春节假期结束中国批发市场重开以来的48小时内，市场上估计有1500货柜的樱桃，但仅有249个货柜售出。
In the 48 hours since the Chinese wholesale market reopened at the end of the Spring Festival, an estimated 1,500 containers of cherries were on the market, but only 249 containers were sold.
夏非向南方周末记者解释，目前这个季节，南美和东南亚的水果正是销售旺季，因此受影响最大。
Xia explained to Southern Weekend that fruits in South America and Southeast Asia are the most affected this season because they are just the season for sales.
尤其是车厘子，销售旺季是11月底开始到2月下旬。
In particular, sales season starts at the end of November and ends in February.
夏非曾是一家头部水果电商的采购总监。
Xia Fei used to be the purchasing director of a fruit appliance merchant.
“就在这短短3个月时间，智利一般要卖出10亿美金车厘子，其中90%都销往中国。
"In just three months, Chile typically sells about $1bn of its cars, 90 per cent of which goes to China.
”夏非说，“智利有太多人靠车厘子活着，包装工人、码头工人等等。
"There are too many people living off the hook in Chile, packers, dockers, etc.
”车厘子滞销，是因为中国批发市场关闭了一段时间，以及交通受阻，没有办法抵达中国消费者手中。
The reason for this is that the wholesale market in China has been closed for some time and traffic has been blocked from reaching Chinese consumers.
夏非说，过去这些车厘子一般从港口送往广州江南、上海辉展、嘉兴以及北京新发地这几大批发市场，但现在大多都积压在港口。
In the past, Mr. Xia said, the figures used to be shipped from the port to the big wholesale markets of Guangzhou's Jiangnan, Shanghai Huihui, Jiaxing and Beijing Xinfa.
智利水果出口商协会主席 Ronald Bown表示，将继续向中国的医院和疗养部门捐赠新鲜水果。
Ronald Bown, president of the Chilean Fruit Exporters Association, said it would continue to donate fresh fruit to hospitals and convalescent departments in China.
第一批已在上周完成，包括向上海的一家医院捐赠1000箱（1.5公斤/箱）蓝莓。
The first batch was completed last week and included a donation of 1,000 cases (1.5 kg / box) of blueberries to a hospital in Shanghai.
徐鸿斌说，国外供货商更着急，每天都在与他沟通。
Xu said foreign suppliers are more anxious and communicate with him every day.
因为时差的原因，有时，他要线上办公至深夜11点。
Because of jet lag, sometimes he had to work online until 11: 00 in the night.
不过，这些消费需求只是暂时的压抑。
However, these consumer demand is only temporarily depressed.
随着物流的恢复，生活渐渐步入正轨，“憋坏了”的中国消费者将会再次犒劳市场。
As logistics recover and life gets back on track, "pent-up" Chinese consumers will again reward the market.
2019年1月27日，市民在贵州省黔南布依族苗族自治州龙里县贵州双龙水果批发市场选购车厘子。
Guizhou Shuanglong Fruit Wholesale Market, Longli County, Qiangnan Buyi Autonomous Prefecture, Guizhou Province, January 27, 2019.
（IC Photo/图）2供应链：全球一体世界制造中心意外停摆，连锁反应很快传导给全球产业链。
(IC Photo / photo) 2 Supply chain: The global integrated world manufacturing hub stops unexpectedly, and the chain reaction is quickly transmitted to the global industrial chain.
紧邻中国的韩国、日本车企，率先感受到汽车产业链的环环相扣。
Next to China, Korea, Japan's car companies, the first to feel the chain of the car industry interlocking.
由于中国的延期复工，汽车线束供应商Kyungshin（京信）和Yura（裕罗）在中国生产的线束产品无法及时供应韩国，现代汽车在韩国的部分工厂从2月7日起不得不暂时停产。
Some Hyundai plants in South Korea had to suspend production from February 7 because of a delay in the resumption of Chinese production of wire harness products from Kyungshin and Yura (Yura) in China.
日产汽车的日本九州工厂、雷诺汽车的韩国釜山工厂也先后宣布，由于中国区零部件供应中断，临时停产。
Nissan's Kyushu plant in Japan and Renault's Busan plant in South Korea have also announced a temporary shutdown due to a disruption in parts supplies in China.
南方周末记者从京信公司内部人士处获知，京信和裕罗供应韩国的线束产品，主要由其设在山东省境内的工厂生产。
Southern Weekend reporter from the company's insiders learned that Beijing letter and Yu Luo supply Korean wire harness products, mainly by its factory in Shandong Province.
目前，它们已经部分复产，正在赶工中。
At present, they have been partially reinstated and are in the process of being built.
疫情甚至还影响到了非洲。
The epidemic has even affected Africa.
2020年2月2日，中国贸促会向浙江一家汽车零部件企业——汇大机械制造（湖州）有限公司，出具了第一份新冠肺炎不可抗力事实性证明书。
On February 2, 2020, China Trade Promotion Council issued its first force majeure certificate for New Crown Pneumonia to Huida Machinery Manufacturing (Huzhou) Co., a Zhejiang auto parts enterprise.
受疫情影响，该公司无法按时履行此前签订的合同——每周向法国标致集团非洲工厂交付1000套转向机壳体。
Affected by the outbreak, the company was unable to meet its previous contract to deliver 1,000 steering gear cases a week to the Peugeot plant in Africa.
南方周末记者从汇大机械制造（湖州）有限公司所在的河西社区了解到，该公司已于2月12日开始复工，但目前返岗率约为30%。
Southern Weekend reporter from Huida Machinery Manufacturing (Huzhou) Co. Ltd. Hexi community learned that the company began to work on February 12, but the return rate is about 30%.
但社区主任丁鑫泉告诉南方周末记者，从2月17日开始，借助支付宝健康码、加上轨迹查询，符合健康要求的外地员工无需居家隔离，体温正常就可以直接上岗了。
But community director Ding Xin-quan told Southern Weekend News that since February 17, foreign workers who meet health requirements without being isolated at home can take their body temperature directly to work, thanks to pay-per-health codes and locus searches.
商务部对外贸易司、中国汽车技术研究中心有限公司编写的《中国汽车贸易高质量发展报告（2019）》提到，2018年中国汽车零部件出口额725亿美元，主要出口市场为美国、日本、德国等发达国家。
China's Automotive Trade High-Quality Development Report (2019), compiled by the Foreign Trade Department of the Ministry of Commerce and the China Automobile Technology Research Center Ltd, notes that China's 2018 auto parts exports totaled $72.5 billion, with developed countries such as the United States, Japan and Germany as the main export markets.
主要汽车零部件企业正在加快融入全球供应链，在一些细分领域具备较强国际竞争力，并已进入跨国汽车企业OEM采购体系。
Major auto parts companies are speeding up their integration into global supply chains, becoming internationally competitive in some segments, and have entered the OEM purchasing system of multinational automobile enterprises.
许多中国汽车零部件厂商均已出海投资，如中信戴卡这样全球最大的铝车轮和铝制底盘零部件供应商。
Many Chinese auto parts makers, such as Citic Daika, the world's largest supplier of aluminium wheels and chassis parts, have already made investments.
自2008年以来，中信戴卡生产的汽车用铝车轮销量连续居全球第一，2018年卖出5401万只车轮。
Citic Dyka has sold the world's largest aluminium wheel in a row since 2008, selling 54.01 million wheels in 2018.
这意味着全球每7辆车就有一辆使用了中信戴卡的车轮。
That means one out of every seven cars in the world uses a CITIC Dai card wheel.
其母公司中信股份（00267.HK）的2018财报显示，中信戴卡的车轮客户包括12家海外车企、6家中国车企。
Citic Daika's 2018 earnings report from its parent, Citic Holdings Inc. (00267.HK), includes 12 overseas car companies and six Chinese auto makers.
“当前客户对疫情影响非常敏感，我们根据实际情况与客户都一一做了承诺答复。
"The current customers are very sensitive to the impact of the epidemic, according to the actual situation and customers have made a commitment to respond.
”中信戴卡以母公司财报发布前的静默期为由，不愿透露更多关于复工和供应链信息。
Citic Daika, citing a period of silence ahead of the parent company's earnings announcement, declined to disclose further information about rework and the supply chain.
产业链上下游相互传导，由于中国整车工厂延期复工，丰田在日本本土的发动机工厂，也不得不暂停部分原本供应中国市场的生产线。
Toyota's local engine plants in Japan have also had to suspend some of the production lines originally intended for the Chinese market, as industrial chains move up and down the chain.
如果中国再不复工，全球消费者也将在电子消费品领域感受到中国工厂引发的蝴蝶效应。
If China does not resume work, consumers around the world will also feel the butterfly effect of Chinese factories in the field of consumer electronics.
受疫情影响，日本游戏机公司任天堂公司近日宣布其“Nintendo Switch”及其配套设备将推迟出货。
Affected by the outbreak, Japanese console Nintendo recently announced that its "Nintendo Switch" and its ancillary equipment will be delayed.
2月17日，苹果向SEC（美国证券交易委员会）提交文件称，受疫情影响，中国合作伙伴无法如预期在2月10日复工，iPhone全球供应将暂时受限，进而影响其2020年第一季度的营收。
On Feb. 17, Apple filed a filing with the SEC saying that because of the outbreak, Chinese partners would not be able to resume work on February 10, as expected, and the iPhone's global supply would be temporarily limited, affecting revenue in the first quarter of 2020.
复工，是鸿海科技集团近日被问询最多的问题。
Resumption of work is the most frequently asked question by Hon Hai Technology Group in recent days.
2020年2月8日、10日，鸿海科技集团连发两则声明，表示不会针对单一厂区、客户、产品发表评论，其在大陆各厂区正在分批复工之中。
On February 8 and 10, 2020, Hon Hai Technology Group issued two statements, saying it would not comment on a single plant, customers, products, and that it is in the process of returning to work in batches in various factories on the mainland.
鸿海科技集团郑州工厂是iPhone主要组装基地。
The Hon Hai tech group Zhengzhou Factory is the main assembly base for the iPhone.
郑州工厂恢复产能的进度，很大程度上决定了苹果公司这一季度的营收，以及全球消费者拿到新款手机的时间。
The pace at which Zhengzhou factories are restoring capacity largely determines Apple's quarterly revenue and the time consumers around the world are getting new phones.
为了早日复工，鸿海科技集团旗下的工业富联（601138.SH）甚至启动了口罩生产。
Hon Hai's industrial consortium, 601138.SH, has even started producing masks in an effort to get back to work early.
口罩是复工的重要防疫物资之一，鸿海科技集团近百万员工，口罩需求量巨大。
Mask is one of the important epidemic prevention materials, Honghai Group nearly one million employees, the demand for masks is huge.
为此，他们在深圳龙华园区导入生产线，2月5日开始试产口罩，预计2月底可以实现日产200万只，用于员工内部生产防疫保障，未来视情况还可对外支援输出。
To this end, they have introduced production lines into the Longhua Park in Shenzhen and started trial production of face masks on February 5. They expect to produce 2 million face masks a day by the end of February for internal production and epidemic prevention among employees.
关于复产更多细节，工业富联对南方周末记者表示，特殊时期，不便接受采访。
For more details on the resumption of production, WFTI told Southern Weekend reporter, special period, not easy to be interviewed.
2017年1月8日，意大利佛罗伦萨奢侈品打折村THE MALL进入打折季，中国游客及留学生成为“村子”的消费主力之一。
On January 8, 2017, the Italian luxury discount village of Florence THE MALL entered a discount season, Chinese tourists and international students become one of the main consumer "village".
受疫情影响，2020年的中国游客大幅减少。
Affected by the epidemic, the number of Chinese tourists dropped sharply in 2020.
（IC Photo/图）3原材料：既是出口大国，也是进口大国疫情也让印度制药企业感到紧张，担心原料药库存不足。
(IC Photo / Fig.) Raw materials: An outbreak in both large exporting and importing countries has also strained Indian pharmaceutical companies, fearing a shortage of API stocks.
据金融时报近日报道，印度一家大型制药集团的负责人警告说，印度各制药商可能面临严重的生产停顿。
The head of a large Indian pharmaceutical group has warned that Indian manufacturers could face a serious production freeze, the Financial Times reported recently.
印度是全球最大的仿制药出口国，其70%的原材料依赖中国。
India is the world's largest exporter of generic drugs and depends on China for 70 per cent of its raw materials.
中国是世界上最大的原料药生产和出口国，在维生素类、解热镇痛类、抗生素类以及皮质激素类产品颇具竞争优势。
China is the world's largest producer and exporter of APIs, with competitive advantages in vitamins, analgesics, antibiotics and corticosteroids.
中国医药保健品进出口商会的数据显示，2018年，中国原料药产品出口额930万吨、出口金额300.48亿美元。
In 2018, China exported 9.3 million tons of API products and 30,048 million US dollars, according to the China Federation of Pharmaceutical and Health Products importers and exporters.
2019年上半年，原料药出口额172.47亿美元，同比增长6.64%。
In the first half of 2019, API exports amounted to $17.247 billion, an increase of 6.64 per cent.
石药集团（01093.HK）是中国原料药最大的出口企业之一。
Stone Group (01093.HK) is one of the largest exporters of APIs in China.
该公司公共关系负责人告诉南方周末记者，疫情发生后，石药集团也收到海外客户对原料药安全、供货情况的关切。
The company's head of public relations told Southern Weekend reporter, after the outbreak, the group also received overseas customers on the safety of bulk drugs, supply concerns.
因该集团在国际原料药供应商的头部地位，且客户多为多年积累的优质长单客户，备货充足，目前订单销售未受影响。
Because of the group's head position in the international API supplier and the large number of high-quality single-account customers who have accumulated over the years, the availability of sufficient stock has not been affected.
作为抗疫重点药品生产企业，春节期间，石药集团生产的抗疫药品盐酸阿比多尔片等生产线一直在持续生产。
As a key anti-epidemic drug manufacturers, during the Spring Festival, the quartz group produced the anti-epidemic drug Abidor tablets and other production lines have continued to produce.
其他产线目前也已全面复工，大部分产品已基本恢复正常产能。
Other production lines have now fully resumed work, most of the products have largely returned to normal capacity.
石药集团的情况并非特例，不少医药企业在疫情期间承担了抗疫药物保障功能，很快复产。
Stone group's case is not a special case, many pharmaceutical enterprises during the epidemic period to bear the anti-epidemic drug safeguard function, quickly resume production.
2020年2月14日，另一家主要的原料药出口商普洛药业（000739.SZ）也公告称，公司复工率接近90%。
On 14 February 2020, another major API exporter, Plo Pharmaceuticals (000739.SZ), also announced a return to work rate of close to 90 per cent.
中国是药品原材料的最大出口国，也是全球最重要的原材料消费国。
China is the largest exporter of pharmaceutical raw materials and the world's most important consumer.
自病毒出现以来，铜、铁矿石、镍、铝和液态天然气等关键工业原材料的价格大幅下跌。
Since the advent of the virus, prices of key industrial raw materials such as copper, iron ore, nickel, aluminium and liquid natural gas have fallen significantly.
巴西、南非和澳大利亚等以高汇率出口这些商品的国家，其货币汇率已接近近年来的最低水平。
Countries that export these commodities at high exchange rates, such as Brazil, South Africa and Australia, have seen their currencies exchange rates approach their lowest levels in recent years.
2020年2月18日，铁矿石巨头必和必拓(BHP.US)公布了截至2019年12月31日的半年财报，受中国需求和铁矿石价格高企所支撑，必和必拓上半年营收222.9亿美元，净利润49亿美元。
On February 18, 2020, the iron-ore giant BHP Billiton reported six-month earnings through December 31, 2019, which, buoyed by high Chinese demand and iron ore prices, generated $22.29 billion in first-half net profit of $4.9 billion.
财报发布同一天，必和必拓市场分析和经济事务副总裁Huw McKay发布《经济和商品展望（2020）》，认为疫情将对大宗商品需求和价格构成风险，如果疫情在本季度“没有得到明显控制”，他们将下调对经济和商品需求增长的预期。
Huw McKay, BHP's vice president for market analysis and economic affairs, released the Economic and Commodity Outlook 2020 the same day, arguing that the outbreak would pose a risk to commodity demand and prices, and that they would revise downward their forecasts for economic and commodity demand growth if the outbreak was "not significantly contained" this quarter.
4共克时艰从事外贸工作十多年，KEDO在2020年第一次代理口罩进口清关。
We have been engaged in foreign trade for more than ten years and KEDO cleared the import of masks for the first time in 2020.
此前，他经手的口罩业务都是出口。
Previously, all the masks he handled were exported.
中国是全球最大的口罩生产国，偶尔有防毒面罩的进口。
China is the world's largest producer of masks, with occasional imports of gas masks.
但这次疫情让中国口罩需求激增，转而成为进口大国。
But the outbreak has fueled a surge in demand for Chinese masks, turning them into big importers.
2020年2月的第一周里，KEDO清关了八十多万个一次性医用口罩。
During the first week of February 2020, KEDO cleared more than 800,000 disposable medical masks.
它们分属约10家企业，一些是中国企业请外国客户帮忙采购，也有一些是外国客户主动代购、赠予中国供应商，用来保障生产。
They are owned by about 10 companies, some by Chinese companies seeking help from foreign customers, and some by foreign clients acting on their own behalf, giving them to Chinese suppliers to guarantee production.
以产业链为纽带，各国企业共克时艰，这也是前所未有的事情。
With the industrial chain as the link, enterprises in all countries to overcome difficulties, this is also unprecedented.
一家位于深圳宝安的电子产品企业主向他感叹，外国客户比自己还要着急开工。
An electronics entrepreneur in Baoan, Shenzhen, lamented to him that foreign customers were even more anxious to get started.
一些企业对产业链转移产生担忧。
Some enterprises are worried about the transfer of industrial chains.
KEDO不这么认为，服装、鞋子等能转移的都已经转移到东南亚了，留下来的中国制造大多是很有特点、不可替代的。
KEDO does not believe that the transfer of clothing, shoes, and so on has been transferred to Southeast Asia, the Chinese manufacturing left is most of the characteristics, irreplaceable.
他对南方周末记者说，“性价比太高，在海外根本找不到类似的供应商。
"The price is too high to find a similar supplier overseas," he told Southern Weekend reporter.
”“要不是这次疫情，很多人不知道中国在全球产业链中到底有多重要。
"Without this outbreak, many people do not know how important China really is in the global industrial chain.
”云南一家山葵种植企业的市场负责人高婷对南方周末记者说。
Gao Ting, marketing director of a mountain anemone plantation in Yunnan, told Southern Weekend reporter.
高婷的公司将山葵加工后，卖给美国一家保健品公司。
Gao Ting's company will be processing the anemone, sold to a health care products company in the United States.
疫情暴发后，由于交通运输受阻，他们无法正常发货，主动与美国客户协商。
After the outbreak of the outbreak, they were unable to deliver goods normally due to traffic disruptions and initiated consultations with United States clients.
一开始对方有些犹豫，但仍然很理性，在查阅了新冠肺炎传播途径之后，在产品包装、消毒等方面给出建议，并没有暂停合同。
At first, the other side hesitated, but still very rational, in the new crown pneumonia transmission route, in product packaging, disinfection and other aspects of the proposal, not suspended.
（应受访者要求，徐鸿斌为化名）。
(Xu Hongbin is an alias at the request of the interviewee).
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“不是这次疫情，很多人不知道中国在全球产业链有多重要”。
"Not this time, many people do not know how important China is in the global industrial chain."
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "“不是这次疫情，很多人不知道中国在全球产业链有多重要”";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; "Not this epidemic, and many people don't know how important China is in the global industrial chain.";
var msg_desc = "只因为.....";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; just because... & quot;;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
