无症状感染者之谜。
The mystery of asymptomatic infection.
黄思卓。
Huang Sijo.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲2020年2月21日，位于北京市丰台区杜家坎的新冠肺炎疫情防控工作集中观察点，护士正对房间走廊进行消毒。
On February 21, 2020, located in the Fengtai District of Beijing, Dujiakan New Crown Pneumonia concentrated observation point, nurses are disinfecting the corridors.
（新华社/图）全文共5134字，阅读大约需要13分钟。
The full text is 5,134 words and takes about 13 minutes to read.
无症状感染者并非是新概念，“伤寒玛丽”的故事已成为经典案例：二十世纪初，美国有位伤寒杆菌携带者名叫玛丽·梅伦，和她密切接触的人相继感染发病，但她自己却没有发病。
The concept of asymptomatic infection is not new, and the story of typhoid Mary has become a classic case: in the early twentieth century, Mary Mullen, a person close to her, became infected, but she did not develop symptoms.
业内的共识是，无症状感染者的症状非常轻微，以至于感染者本身难以察觉，也未被诊断出来。
The consensus in the industry is that the symptoms of asymptomatic infections are so mild that the infection itself is difficult to detect and undiagnosed.
传染性的强弱，目前没有一个可量化的客观指标，不过可以检测排毒量大小，即研究采集样本上面的病毒载量。
There is currently no quantifiable objective indicator of infectivity, but the amount of detoxification can be measured, that is, the amount of viral load on collected samples.
从2015年起，世卫组织就不断建议，如果条件允许，对所有MERS密切接触者进行试剂检测，尤其是医务人员，不论其是否出现症状。
As of 2015, WHO has been recommending reagent testing for all close contacts with MERS, if conditions permit, especially for medical personnel, regardless of symptoms.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 黄思卓南方周末特约撰稿 于北辰 周嘉珺责任编辑 | 汪韬 何海宁工作21年，妇产科副主任医师桑琳总是听见生命的第一声啼哭。
This article was first published at Southern Weekend without authorization to reproduce & # 160; & # 45; South Weekend reporter Huang Sijo Southern & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160;
2020年2月13日，她却遇到了“最特殊最难的一个手术”，心里打起了鼓。
February 13, 2020, she encountered "the most special and most difficult operation", the heart beat a drum.
她所在的合肥市第二人民医院，每月约有两百余位孕妇分娩，桑琳处理过各种突发情况，对可通过血液等传播的乙肝、梅毒患者分娩都不陌生。
Her second People's Hospital in Hefei City, about 200 pregnant women give birth each month, Sanlin has dealt with a variety of emergencies, can be transmitted through blood, syphilis delivery is no stranger.
眼前这位剖腹产的22岁孕妇“表面上看跟正常人一样”，但由于家中有新冠病毒确诊患者，她也接受了核酸检测，结果显示为阳性。
The 22-year-old woman, who had a cesarean section "on the surface like a normal person," also tested positive for nucleic acid because she was diagnosed with Newcastle virus at home.
她是一名“无症状感染者”。
She is an asymptomatic infected person.
据南方周末记者统计，从1月下旬开始，全国至少有19个地方通报了34例类似案例，他们还被冠以阳性检测者、隐性感染者、病毒携带者等称呼。
Since late January, 34 similar cases have been reported in at least 19 places across the country, and they have been called positive test takers, hidden infections and carriers of the virus, according to Southern Weekend reporter statistics.
在一流的学术期刊中，他们也饱受关注，被形容为asymptomatic（无症状的）。
In top-notch academic journals, they are also highly regarded as asymptomatic (asymptomatic).
无症状感染者并非是新概念，存在于许多疾病患者群体中。
The concept of asymptomatic infection is not new and exists in many groups of patients with diseases.
南方周末记者采访了六位中外医学专家，有的认为他们的症状轻微而难以察觉和诊断，有的认为这是个伪概念。
Southern Weekend reporter interviewed 6 Chinese and foreign medical experts, some think their symptoms are mild and difficult to detect and diagnose, some think it is a false concept.
中国疾病预防控制中心发表在《中华流行病学杂志》上的论文指出，截至2月11日，中国内地共收到无症状感染者报告889例，占总报告数的1.2%。
As of February 11, 889 cases of asymptomatic infection had been reported to the mainland, accounting for 1.2 percent of the total, the CDC reported in the Chinese Journal of Epidemiology.
早在1月28日，国家卫健委高级别专家组成员李兰娟院士在接受央视采访时就表示，要高度关注这类无症状感染人群。
As early as January 28, Li Lanjuan, a member of the high-level health committee, told CCTV that high-level attention should be paid to such asymptomatic infections.
作为孕妇的密切接触者，桑琳和刚刚出生的小宝宝正在隔离观察，等待这个难题的答案：无症状感染者的传染性有多大？无症状感染者是假想敌还是真的存在？新冠病毒无症状感染者，最早公开的详实案例应属深圳的一位10岁男孩。
As close contacts with pregnant women, Sanlin and her newborn baby are being watched in isolation, waiting for the answer to the question: How infectious are asymptomatic infected people? Asymptomatic infected people? The earliest known case of asymptomatic infection is a 10-year-old boy in Shenzhen.
2020年1月24日，香港大学新发传染性疾病国家重点实验室主任袁国勇等人在《柳叶刀》发表了论文：男孩一家六口武汉探亲返回深圳，港大深圳医院检测发现，男孩和其他4位成年家属核酸检测为阳性，但是男孩被认为是无症状的。
On January 24, 2020, Yuan Guoyong, director of the National Key Laboratory for Emerging Infectious Diseases of the University of Hong Kong, and others presented a paper in The Lancet. The boy's family returned to Shenzhen to visit their family in Wuhan.
国家卫健委首次正式定义无症状感染者，是1月28日的《新型冠状病毒肺炎防控方案》第三版，定义为“无临床症状，呼吸道等标本的新冠病毒病原学检测为阳性的群体”。
The committee's first formal definition of asymptomatic infection is the January 28th version of the new coronavirus pneumonia prevention and control program, defined as "no clinical symptoms, respiratory specimens and other specimens of the new crown virus pathogen-positive groups."
既然无症状，他们为什么会被排查出来？国家卫健委副主任曾益新总结了四个来源，核心意思是对聚集性疫情、密切接触者调查发现。
Why are they screened out since they are asymptomatic? Zeng Yixin, deputy director of the National Health Commission, summarized four sources.
南方周末记者统计的34例无症状感染者涉及河南、浙江、湖北、辽宁、广东、四川、江西等省，多数为确诊患者的家人，也有个别是未成年人，如前述深圳10岁男童、辽宁省一例4岁女童等。
Most of the 34 asymptomatic infections reported by Southern Weekend journalists involved the families of confirmed patients in Henan, Zhejiang, Hubei, Liaoning, Guangdong, Sichuan and Jiangxi provinces, and some were minors, such as the aforementioned 10-year-old boy in Shenzhen and a 4-year-old girl in Liaoning Province.
何为“无临床症状”，官方未提出统一的诊断标准，学界也没有统一意见。
What is "no clinical symptoms," the official did not propose a unified diagnostic standard, there is no academic consensus.
在关于10岁男童的论文中，男童并未出现的临床症状有9项：发烧、咳嗽、腹泻、咽痛、体虚乏力、鼻塞、流涕、打喷嚏、胸痛。
In the paper on 10-year-old boys, there were nine clinical symptoms not present for boys: fever, cough, diarrhoea, sore throat, weakness, stuffy nose, runny nose, sneezing and chest pain.
南方周末记者整理的案例中对无症状描述不一，包括无发热、咳嗽、胸闷等症状。
Southern Weekend reporter collated in the case of asymptomatic description, including no fever, cough, chest tightness and other symptoms.
“对我来讲，现在流传的无症状感染者说法，还没有系统性地被专业学术报告证实。
"For me, the current spread of asymptomatic infection, has not been systematically confirmed by professional academic reports.
”美国马萨诸塞大学医学院教授卢山说，“现在举不出一个例子，某个人大家都同意他是百分之百无症状，但确诊是感染的。
"There is no example of someone agreeing that he is 100 percent asymptomatic, but the diagnosis is infectious," said Dr. Lushan, a professor at the University of Massachusetts Medical School.
”业内的共识是，无症状感染者的症状非常轻微，以至于感染者本身难以察觉，也未被诊断出来。
The consensus in the industry is that the symptoms of asymptomatic infections are so mild that the infection itself is difficult to detect and undiagnosed.
1月30日，复旦大学附属华山医院感染科主任张文宏等撰文指出，轻症和无症状之间，往往“没有一条绝对的分界线划分”，因为这些症状可能轻微到患者难以察觉。
Writing on January 30, Zhang Wenhong, director of infection at Fudan University's Huashan Hospital, and others, pointed out that there is often "no absolute dividing line" between mild and asymptomatic symptoms, which can be so mild that they are difficult to detect.
世界卫生组织发言人TarikJašarevic也在邮件中回复南方周末记者：无症状感染者“往往得病而不自知”。
World Health Organization spokesman Tarik Jašarevic also responded in an e-mail to Southern Weekend reporter: asymptomatic infected people "often get sick without knowing it."
中山大学附属第三医院感染科副主任、中华预防医学会感染性疾病防控分会常委兼秘书长林炳亮怀疑，许多地区的流行病学问询调查或许做得不够细致全面，忽视了病毒不太常见的临床症状，误把一些人归为无症状感染者。
Lin Bingliang, Deputy Director of Infection at Zhongshan University's Hospital No. 3, Standing Committee and Secretary-General of the Infectious Disease Prevention and Control Sub-Committee of the Chinese Society of Preventive Medicine, suspects that epidemiological inquiries in many areas may not be thorough enough to ignore the less common clinical symptoms of the virus and mistakenly classify some people as asymptomatic.
前述10岁男孩，在家长的一再要求下，医院为其做了CT检测，结果显示孩子的肺部影像已呈现出磨玻璃状的变化，这篇《柳叶刀》的论文写道“：这是一个非常意外的发现。
"It was a very unexpected finding," the Lancet paper wrote, referring to a 10-year-old boy who had undergone a CT examination at the request of his parents and whose lungs had undergone a glassy change.
”林炳亮告诉南方周末记者，哪怕是血常规等指标、影像学检查均无异常的感染者，也不意味着体内的组织器官就没有轻微损伤或病变，“做病理检查或许才能发现问题，但也不必要做，此疾病有一定自限性，轻微损伤也会自行恢复”。
Lin told Southern Weekend reporter that even routine blood tests and imaging studies showed no abnormal infection, nor did it mean there was no slight injury or lesion in the body's tissues and organs. "Pathological examination may reveal the problem, but it is unnecessary.
▲2020年2月9日，孝感市孝南区，由于人员往返频繁，在门上张贴了提示防护消毒的标识。
February 9, 2020, Xiaoyan City Xiaonan District, because of frequent commuting, on the door signs indicating protection and disinfection.
（新华社/图） 处于潜伏期所以无症状？那些被认为的无症状感染者中，有一部分很可能是正处于潜伏期的患者，症状尚未体现。
Some of the asymptomatic infections that are thought to be asymptomatic are likely to be in the incubation period, with symptoms yet to manifest themselves.
这个话题在全球一流的学术期刊中得到了热议。
The topic is hotly debated in world-class academic journals.
1月30日，国际顶级医学期刊《新英格兰医学杂志》刊登的德国慕尼黑大学医学中心CamillaRothe的一篇通讯文章认为，德国出现症状的4名患者，最初的传染源可能是一名无症状的中国同事，且在德国开会期间此中国同事并无症状。
According to a newsletter published in the New England Journal of Medicine on January 30, Camilla Rothe of the University of Munich Medical Center in Germany said the initial source of infection for the four patients with symptoms in Germany could have been an asymptomatic Chinese colleague who had no symptoms during a meeting in Germany.
但这个结论随即遭到《科学》杂志网站一篇新闻报道的质疑，理由是这个中国同事并非无症状感染者，她在德国期间已出现了疲乏、肌肉酸痛的症状并服用了退烧药，哈佛大学和多伦多大学的医学专家都认为该论文的论证有失严谨。
But the findings were immediately challenged by a news story on the journal Science on the grounds that the Chinese colleague was not asymptomatic. She had developed fatigue, muscle soreness and taken antipyretics while in Germany, and medical experts at Harvard University and the University of Toronto said the thesis was ill-reasoned.
2月6日，CamillaRothe等人更新了上述文章，增加了该中国同事的症状细节，称传染可能是在她处于潜伏期、症状不明显的情况下完成。
On 6 February, Camilla Rothe and others updated the above-mentioned article, adding details of the symptoms of the Chinese colleague, stating that the infection could have been accomplished while she was in incubation and her symptoms were not apparent.
如何区分无症状和潜伏期的感染者以及他们的传染性大小，CamillaRothe尚未回复南方周末记者的邮件。
Camilla Rothe has yet to respond to Southern Weekend's e-mails about how to distinguish asymptomatic and incubated infections and how contagious they are.
2月18日，《新英格兰医学杂志》又刊登了一篇来自德国的通讯文章：下了飞机后，从湖北撤回至法兰克福的126名德国乘客中，除10名直接被送至医院，剩余的均隔离观察14天，其中有两名乘客核酸检测阳性，却无临床症状。
On February 18, the New England Journal of Medicine published another article from Germany: of the 126 German passengers who were evacuated from Hubei to Frankfurt after disembarkation, all but 10 were taken directly to the hospital and the rest were observed in isolation for 14 days, two of whom tested positive for nucleic acid but did not show any clinical symptoms.
该文的通讯作者、德国法兰克福大学医学病毒研究所SandraCiesek教授告诉南方周末记者，这两名乘客的无临床症状指的是在出院之前，没有出现发烧、咳嗽、腹泻等。
Correspondent Professor Sandra Ciesek of the Institute of Medical Virus at the University of Frankfurt, Germany, told Southern Weekend that the non-clinical symptoms of the two passengers referred to the absence of fever, cough, diarrhea, etc., prior to discharge from the hospital.
SandraCiesk团队也难以区别二人“是无症状感染者，还是处于潜伏期未发病”，只是按照14天的潜伏期上限来观察。
The Sandra Ciesk team also had trouble distinguishing between the two men, who were asymptomatic, or who had not developed symptoms during latency, only by observing the 14-day incubation period limit.
目前，每天卫健委公开通报的累计和新增确诊病例中，并不包括无症状感染者。
At present, the cumulative and newly confirmed cases reported publicly by the CHP every day do not include asymptomatic infected persons.
例如2月9日，黑龙江省卫健委宣布核减了14例患者，其中就包括13例无症状感染者。
On February 9, for example, the Heilongjiang Health Commission announced a reduction of 14 cases, including 13 cases of asymptomatic infection.
不算确诊病例，但无症状感染者被纳入病例报告及管理，他们的密切接触者也需要进行隔离和观察。
Not counting confirmed cases, but asymptomatic infections are included in case reporting and management, their close contacts also require isolation and observation.
国家卫健委副主任曾益新介绍，如果无症状感染者在隔离期间出现症状，会将其归为确诊病例并予以报告。
Zeng Yixin, deputy director of the National Fitness and Health Commission, said asymptomatic infections were classified as confirmed cases and reported if they developed symptoms during isolation.
不过，这还是让许多人感到疑惑。
Still, that leaves many wondering.
2月20日《自然》杂志的一篇文章中，作者援引多位医学专家的观点表示，这样的病例统计可能会对其他国家和地区应对疫情产生误导，也不利于建立病毒模型，以了解传播的范围。
In an article in the Feb. 20 issue of the journal Nature, the authors quoted medical experts as saying that such a case study could mislead other countries and regions in their response to the epidemic, as well as establish a virus model to understand the extent of the spread.
无症状者是免疫高手还是定时炸弹？无症状感染者自己没有什么明显的感受，令人担忧的其实是他们的传染性，甚至有人将他们比喻为“行走的蝙蝠”。
The asymptomatic person is immune master or time bomb? The asymptomatic infect oneself does not have apparent feeling, what is worrying is actually their infectivity, some even compare them to "walking bats."
每立方米空气有一万个细菌，病毒也是无处不在，它们时刻寻找机会，兵临城下，发动侵略人体的战争。
There are 10, 000 bacteria per cubic metre of air, and viruses are everywhere, looking for opportunities to invade the human body.
新冠病毒从鼻腔和口腔入侵后，人体会随之启动“一方有难，八方支援”的防御体系：——打喷嚏。
After the new crown virus invades from the nasal cavity and mouth, the person can start "one side has difficulty, eight side support" defense system subsequently: sneezes.
跨过鼻毛这道物理屏障后，鼻腔黏膜的神经末梢受到病毒刺激，会以打喷嚏的方式排出病毒。
After crossing this physical barrier, the nerve endings of the nasal mucosa are stimulated by viruses that expel viruses by sneezing.
——咳嗽咳痰。
-- coughing up phlegm.
咽喉部黏液想阻挡病毒往呼吸道深处侵犯，免疫细胞也会登场来吞噬病毒。
The pharyngeal mucus tries to stop the virus from invading deep into the respiratory tract, and immune cells come out to devour the virus.
病毒长驱直入气管和支气管，管腔表面的上皮细胞、杯状细胞和免疫细胞与之搏斗，人体可能会咳嗽。
The virus drives into the trachea and bronchus, where epithelial cells, goblet cells and immune cells fight, and the body may cough.
——发烧。
I have a fever.
体温调节中枢受到病毒刺激，靠高温来抑毒和攻毒。
The thermoregulation center is stimulated by a virus and relies on high temperatures to suppress poison and attack poison.
咳嗽这些临床症状正是免疫系统对抗病毒的“三十六计”，只是每个人的反应相似却又不尽相同。
The clinical symptoms of coughing are the "thirty-six" antiviral responses of the immune system, but they vary from person to person.
中国医学科学院北京协和医学院免疫学系教授黄波对南方周末记者介绍，如果人体的免疫功能和病毒在一个微妙的相持阶段时，无症状携带者就出现了。
If the body's immune function and the virus are in a delicate phase of stalemate, asymptomatic carriers appear, Huang Bo, professor of immunology at the Beijing Concorde Medical School of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, told Southern Weekend reporter.
黄波认为，有的人对病毒的I型干扰素水平（参与抗病毒免疫的效应分子）很高，阻止了病毒在体内扩张，体内病毒量不大；同时，他们又对病毒的反应性不强，“或者说是有缺陷”，由病毒产生的炎性因子量少，因此发烧、咳嗽等症状就不明显。
Huang said that some people have high levels of the virus's type I interferon (the effector molecule involved in antiviral immunity), which prevents the virus from spreading in the body and causes it to be less reactive, "or defective," and causes fewer inflammatory factors, such as fever and cough.
不少人担心无症状的病毒携带者是隐秘的“定时炸弹”，没有“狼烟”警示自己和周围人，一不小心成为了“超级传播者”。
Many worry that asymptomatic carriers of the virus are secretive "time bombs" that warn themselves and others around them that they have become "super-disseminators" by accident.
2月3日，国家卫健委发布的第五版诊疗方案中，明确了“无症状感染者也可能成为传染源”。
February 3, the National Health Commission issued the fifth edition of the diagnosis and treatment program, identified "asymptomatic infection may also become a source of infection."
南方周末记者整理各地发布会和媒体采访发现，没有人认为无症状感染者完全没有传染性，但对于传染性的强弱没有定论。
Southern Weekend reporter collates local press conference and media interview to discover, no one thinks asymptomatic infect completely is not infectious, but the strength of infectivity is not conclusive.
传染性的强弱，在浙江大学医学院副教授周林福看来，目前没有一个可量化的客观指标，不过可以检测排毒量大小，即研究采集样本上面的病毒载量。
According to Zhou Linfu, an associate professor at Zhejiang University School of Medicine, there is no quantifiable objective indicator, but the amount of detoxification can be measured, which means studying the viral load on collected samples.
关于病毒载量，2月19日，《新英格兰医学杂志》发表了一篇来自广东省疾控中心等机构的通讯文章，研究团队对比一位无症状感染者和其他普通患者的鼻咽拭子和口咽拭子的采集样本，发现两者的病毒载量相似，可能意味着无症状感染者也具有传染潜力。
On Feb. 19, the New England Journal of Medicine published a newsletter from the Guangdong CDC, among others. The team compared samples taken by an asymptomatic infected person with swabs and swabs from the mouth and mouth. The team found similar viral loads in both cases, suggesting asymptomatic infections may also have infectious potential.
林炳亮和周林福都认可病毒载量检测，但也表示疾病的认知和探索都需要时间，难以靠个别案例去推测整体的传播规律。
Both Lin and Zhou agree on viral load testing, but say it takes time to recognize and explore the disease, and it is difficult to predict the overall transmission pattern by individual cases.
无症状者经典案例：“伤寒玛丽”无症状并不是一个新的概念，“伤寒玛丽”的故事已成为经典案例：二十世纪初，美国有位伤寒杆菌携带者名叫玛丽·梅伦，和她密切接触的人相继感染发病，但她自己却没有发病。
Typhoid Mary is not a new concept. The story of typhoid Mary has become a classic case: Mary Melanie, a typhoid carrier in the United States in the early twentieth century, contracted the disease in close contact with someone close to her, but she did not develop symptoms herself.
医学专家花了数年时间才发现玛丽是携带病毒者，而且体内的伤寒杆菌有着持续的感染力。
It took years for medical experts to find out that Mary was the carrier of the virus and that the bacteria in her body had a persistent infectivity.
周林福研究传染病诊断近20年，在他看来，很多微生物在人和动物身上都会出现这种携带却不发病现象，因为每个个体免疫能力不同，免疫力强的个体更容易消灭病毒，从而没有发病症状。
Zhou, who has been studying infectious disease diagnosis for nearly 20 years, says many microbes carry the virus in humans and animals without getting sick, because individuals with different immune abilities are more likely to eliminate the virus and thus have no symptoms.
许多现代常见疾病中，无症状患者的身影也频繁涌现。
In many modern common diseases, the shadow of asymptomatic patient also appears frequently.
中国的慢性阻塞性肺疾病患者将近1亿，广州呼吸健康研究院副院长郑劲平教授告诉南方周末记者，此疾病全部患者九成以上均是轻症患者，而轻症患者中约有一半是无症状的，这对该病早期发现和干预治疗大大增加了难度。
Nearly 100 million people in China suffer from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, said Professor Zheng Jingping, vice-president of the Guangzhou Institute of Respiratory Health. More than 90 percent of all cases of the disease are mild, and about half of the mild cases are asymptomatic, making early detection and intervention much more difficult.
这次新冠疫情给全民上了一堂医学普及课，冠状病毒大家庭中的SARS和中东呼吸综合征冠状病毒（MERS）常被拿来作为对比，在学术论文中，二者也都出现过无症状感染者案例。
The new outbreak has given the nation a universal medical lesson. SARS and the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome coronavirus (MERS) in the coronavirus family are often compared. In academic papers, both have had cases of asymptomatic infection.
国际传染病学会主办的《国际传染病杂志》（IJID）在2014年发布一篇研究指出，MERS的43名无症状感染者中，有13人病毒持续时间超过14天。
In a 2014 study published in the International Journal of Infectious Diseases (IJID), sponsored by the International Society for Infectious Diseases, it was found that 13 out of 43 asymptomatic MERS infections lasted more than 14 days.
更有甚者，2015年美国传染病学会主办的《临床传染病》（CID）一篇论文指出，一名确诊的无症状医务人员，5周后其检测结果依然显示病毒仍存在于体内。
Moreover, according to a 2015 CID paper sponsored by the American Society for Infectious Diseases, a confirmed asymptomatic medical worker's test results five weeks later indicated that the virus was still present in the body.
世卫组织发言人TarikJašarevic邮件回复南方周末记者，基于他们对冠状病毒，尤其是MERS传播规律的研究，无症状感染者将冠状病毒传染给他人非常罕见（very rare），因此有症状的新冠患者还是病毒传播的主要传染源。
WHO spokesman Tarik Jašarevic replied to Southern Weekend reporter based on their research on the coronavirus, especially the transmission pattern of MERS, it is very rare for asymptomatic infected persons to infect others with coronavirus.
尽管距离MERS首次暴发已过去七年之久，医学界对MERS无症状感染者的研究仍处于摸索阶段，没有明确的结论。
Although seven years have passed since the first MERS outbreak, the medical community's study of asymptomatic patients with MERS is still in its infancy, with no clear conclusion.
但2018年，世卫组织对MERS疫情发出警示，不乏一些患者早期症状轻微，到后期发展成严重的下呼吸道感染的症状。
But in 2018, the WHO warned of the MERS epidemic, with some patients showing mild early symptoms and developing severe symptoms of lower respiratory infections later in life.
MERS无症状感染者中，不少人是医护人员和儿童新冠病毒和MERS病毒同属冠状病毒，但还是有差别。
Many of the asymptomatic patients with MERS are both coronavirus, but the coronavirus is different.
病毒学家卢山直言，很难直接以MERS来推测新冠病毒的传播规律。
Virologist Lu Shan bluntly, it is difficult to directly use MERS to predict the transmission of the new crown virus.
值得注意的是，无症状感染者可能存在一些共性。
It is worth noting that asymptomatic infections may have some commonalities.
在约翰霍普金斯大学和沙特阿美合作的医疗机构工作的JaffarA.Al-Tawfiq，参与写作了两篇论文，他们发现MERS无症状感染者中有不少人是医护人员和儿童。
Jaffar A. Al-Tawfiq, who works at Johns Hopkins University and Aramco's medical facility, co-authored two papers in which they found that many of the asymptomatic MERS sufferers were medical staff and children.
世卫组织2018年的文件中也提到，无症状感染者中医务人员占比较高。
The 2018 WHO document also mentions a high proportion of asymptomatic infected persons who are medical personnel.
回到2020年2月13日夜晚的合肥市第二人民医院妇产科手术室。
Back to the night of February 13, 2020 Hefei Second People's Hospital obstetrics and gynecology operating room.
无症状感染者的传染性虽然不明，但考虑到顺产会经历更长时间的母婴接触，医院建议孕妇剖腹产，孕妇及家属同意了。
Although the infectivity of asymptomatic infected persons is unknown, the hospital recommends caesarean sections for pregnant women, with the consent of the pregnant woman and her family, given the longer period of mother-to-child contact.
不同于此前的产科手术，桑琳的团队套着鞋套，戴上了三层外科手套、护目镜和口罩；从里到外总共穿了五层：贴身衣物、洗手衣、隔离衣、防护服以及无菌操作隔离衣。
Unlike previous obstetrical procedures, Ms. Sanlene's team wore a shoe cover, three surgical gloves, goggles and a mask. Five layers were worn from the inside out: cloths, hand-washing clothes, protective clothing, and sterile dressing.
产妇也戴了两层口罩，N95口罩之外还有一层外科口罩。
The mother also wore a two-layer mask and a surgical mask over the N95 mask.
从术前准备、术中配合到术后清理，每一个步骤都事先排演多遍。
Each step is rehearsed several times in advance, from pre-operative preparation and intraoperative coordination to post-operative clean-up.
为了这台特殊的产科手术，几乎全院上下都参与其中。
Almost the entire hospital is involved in this particular obstetrics operation.
但为了减少人员进出而带来病毒感染风险，在场的医护人员只有主刀的桑琳和助手、麻醉师、器械护士、巡回护士五人。
However, in order to reduce the risk of virus infection in access, the presence of only the main knife Saunlin and assistants, anesthesiologists, instrument nurses, itinerant nurses five.
“手术时间我记得非常清楚，正好40分钟，我们也没想到怎么那么快。
"I remember the time of the operation very well. It was 40 minutes and we didn't think it was that fast.
”桑琳回忆，一般手术在30分钟至40分钟之间，难度大的手术要1个小时甚至更长。
The average operation lasts between 30 and 40 minutes, and the more difficult one takes an hour or more, Ms. Sanlene recalls.
为减少婴儿的感染风险，在婴儿出来之前，桑琳团队用负压吸引器尽量吸尽羊水，婴儿出来之后迅速止血和清理羊水，并将婴儿交给在门外等候的助产士，处理脐带和清洗护理。
To reduce a baby's risk of infection, Sanling's team uses a vacuum extractor to suck as much amniotic fluid as possible before the baby comes out. After the baby comes out, it quickly stops bleeding and cleans the amniotic fluid, hands the baby over to a midwife waiting outside the door, handles the umbilical cord and washes the baby.
团队的努力没有白费。
The team's efforts were not in vain.
2月22日，桑琳告诉南方周末记者，产妇腹部切口正在愈合，目前核酸检测没有转阴性但仍无临床症状，宝宝测了两次核酸，结果均为阴性。
On February 22, Sanlin told Southern Weekend reporter that the abdominal incision is healing, Nucleic acid testing is not negative but still no clinical symptoms, the baby tested two nucleic acids, negative results.
从2015年起，世卫组织就不断建议，如果条件允许，对所有MERS密切接触者进行试剂检测，尤其是医务人员，不论其是否出现症状。
As of 2015, WHO has been recommending reagent testing for all close contacts with MERS, if conditions permit, especially for medical personnel, regardless of symptoms.
世卫组织同时提醒，无症状感染者在家隔离时也应注意充分的物理隔离，尽可能避免与他人同处一室，单独在房间用餐，避免与他人分享食物。
The WHO also cautioned that asymptomatic infections should also be kept in adequate physical isolation when isolated at home, avoiding, as far as possible, co-location with others, eating alone in the room and avoiding sharing food.
对于新冠病毒，根据2月24日晚，中国—世界卫生组织新冠肺炎联合专家考察组的发布会，在广东和四川的调查中，大约1%-5%的密切接触者实验室确诊为阳性。
About 1 percent to 5 percent of close contacts in Guangdong and Sichuan tested positive for the virus, according to a report released on the night of Feb. 24 by a joint Chinese-World Health Organization (WHO) team of experts on New Crown Pneumonia.
中国目前对于无症状感染者和他们的密切接触者都要求隔离观察。
China now requires isolation of asymptomatic infected people and their close contacts.
找出无症状感染者并非无“技”可寻。
Finding asymptomatic infections is not asymptomatic.
2月20日，中国工程院副院长、呼吸与危重症医学专家王辰接受央视采访时表示，目前对无症状感染者的判断主要是靠核酸检测，以后还会有抗原检测、抗体检测。
In an interview with CCTV on Feb. 20, Wang Chen, vice-dean of the Chinese Academy of Engineering and a specialist in respiratory and critical medicine, said the diagnosis of asymptomatic infections is mainly based on nucleic acid testing, and will later have antigen detection, antibody detection.
在林炳亮看来，对无症状感染者需要谨慎地隔离和观察，对于他们的病毒载量和病毒持续期，科学界还需深入的研究。
In Lin's view, asymptomatic infected people need to be carefully isolated and observed, their viral load and virus duration, the scientific community needs to further study.
参考文献1. 中国疾病预防控制中心. 新型冠状病毒肺炎流行病学特征分析.中华流行病学杂志 41.2(2020):145-151.2. Ali, et al. “A family cluster of Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus infections related to a likely unrecognized asymptomatic or mild case.” International Journal of Infectious Diseases (2013): e668-e672.3. Al-Tawfiq, Jaffar A., R. F. Kattan, and Z. A. Memish. “Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus disease is rare in children: An update from Saudi Arabia.” World Journal of Clinical Pediatrics 5.4(2016):391-396.4. Al-Tawfiq, Jaffar A., and Philippe Gautret. “Asymptomatic Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus (MERS-CoV) infection: extent and implications for infection control: a systematic review.” Travel Medicine and Infectious Disease 27 (2019): 27-32.5. Chan, Jasper Fuk-Woo, et al. “A familial cluster of pneumonia associated with the 2019 novel coronavirus indicating person-to-person transmission: a study of a family cluster.” The Lancet (2020): 514-523.6. Che, Xiao-yan, et al. “A patient with asymptomatic severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and antigenemia from the 2003–2004 community outbreak of SARS in Guangzhou, China.” Clinical Infectious Diseases 43.1 (2006): e1-e5.7. Hoehl, Sebastian, et al. “Evidence of SARS-CoV-2 infection in returning travelers from Wuhan, China.” New England Journal of Medicine (2020).8. Kupferschmidt, K. “Study claiming new coronavirus can be transmitted by people without symptoms was flawed.” Science (2020).9. Maya, et al. “Main factors influencing recovery in MERS Co-V patients using machine learning.” Journal of infection and public health (2019): 700-704.10. Moon, Soo Youn, and J. S. Son. “Infectivity of an asymptomatic patient with Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus infection.” Clinical Infectious Diseases 64.10(2017):1457-1458.11. Rothe, Camilla, et al. “Transmission of 2019-nCoV infection from an asymptomatic contact in Germany.” New England Journal of Medicine (2020).12. Zou, Lirong, et al. “SARS-CoV-2 viral load in upper respiratory specimens of infected patients.”New England Journal of Medicine (2020).戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
China Centers for Disease Control. Epidemiological Analysis of New Coronavirus Pneumonia: a systematic review. (2020). The Journal of Chinese Epidemiology 41.2 (2020): 145-151.2.Ali, et al. "
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
无症状感染者之谜。
The mystery of asymptomatic infection.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "无症状感染者之谜";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; with asymptomatic infection.
var msg_desc = "他们是谁，如何感染？";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Who and how were they infected? & quot;;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
