武汉的九百万种心碎。
Wuhan has nine million heartbreaks.
李慕琰。
Sharon Lee.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲2020年2月9日，武汉，一名医护人员正在穿防护服。
On February 9, 2020, Wuhan, a medical personnel is wearing protective clothing.
现阶段，医护人员的心理问题尚未浮现，他们面对的最大问题仍是超负荷工作。
At this stage, the psychological problems of medical staff have not emerged, their biggest problem is still overwork.
（拾城 赖鑫琳/图）全文共6395字，阅读大约需要14分钟。
The full text is 6,395 words and takes about 14 minutes to read.
“真正了解的人是不忍心去碰的，就好像刀子刚刚插进去，你是不能断然把刀子马上抽出来的。
"A man who really knows won't touch it, just as a knife is just thrust in, and you can't draw it out immediately.
”“他们也开始懂得，疾病不应该把人们分开，恰恰相反，它应该为人类相爱提供机会。
"" They are also beginning to understand that disease should not separate people; on the contrary, it should provide opportunities for human love.
”本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 李慕琰南方周末实习生 杜嘉禧责任编辑 | 邢人俨过去一个月，武汉人的声音夹杂着叹息、消沉、焦虑和恐慌。
Yan Du, an intern with Southern Weekend reporter Li Mujiaxi, an intern with responsibilities, began last week at Southern Weekend. In the past month, Wuhan people's voice has been marked by sighing, depression, anxiety and panic.
他们的求助电话打向四面八方。
Their calls for help were coming in all directions.
至少十条热线、数千位咨询师为他们提供心理援助。
At least 10 hotlines and thousands of counsellors provide them with psychological assistance.
最多的一天，王静接了37个电话。
On the biggest day, Wang answered 37 phone calls.
经验丰富的心理治疗师能从声音中判断对方的内心处境。
Experienced psychotherapists can judge each other's inner situation from their voices.
在一个女孩急切的哭泣中，王静听到对方已在山西老家确诊，而留在武汉的男友发烧39度，仍一次次往返于协和医院与家之间等待检查机会。
As one girl sobbed, Wang listened to the diagnosis being made in her hometown of Shanxi, while her boyfriend, who remained in Wuhan, had a fever of 39 degrees and was still waiting for a chance to check back and forth between the hospital and home.
他们居住的万松园，距离华南海鲜市场并不远，到协和医院也只有半站路。
They live in the Marathon Garden, not far from the South China seafood market, to Concorde Hospital is only half a stop away.
那几天武汉阴雨绵绵，王静听到了那个男孩的焦虑与绝望。
Days of rain in Wuhan, Wang listened to the boy's anxiety and despair.
有时，一些声音是麻木的。
Sometimes, some sounds are numb.
社区咨询师潘兰接过很多这样的电话，起初很平静，但当咨询师开始说话，他们会急切地打断——“你先听我说”，说着说着就哭了——能够哭出来，在这个特殊的时期已是幸事，“哭是一种释放”。
Panlan, a community counselor, took over many of these calls, initially quietly, but when the counselor began to talk, they would interrupt anxiously - "You listen to me first," and cried - and were able to cry. Fortunately for this particular time, "Crying is a release."
在一间为火神山施工人员提供服务的酒店里，一位中年女服务员留守下来。
A middle-aged waitress stays at a hotel that serves the construction crews of Mount Fire.
她没有回乡和家人团聚，几天后，她发烧咳嗽、头昏无力，成了疑似患者。
She did not return home with her family, and a few days later, she developed a fever, cough, dizziness and became a suspected patient.
她排不上核酸检测和床位，独自在出租屋里隔离。
Unable to arrange nucleic acid tests and beds, she was isolated in a rental room.
夜里，王静接到了她的电话，那是一个“虚弱、孤单、非常绝望”的声音。
At night, Wang Jing received a call from her. It was a "weak, lonely and desperate" voice.
王静答应，每天用私人号码打给她，查看她的情况——她称之为“生死约定”。
Wang Jing agreed to call her daily with a personal number to check on her condition - what she called a "life-and-death pact."
这种一次性的心理援助以十到二十分钟居多，私下联系很罕见。
This one-off psychological assistance lasts for more than 10 to 20 minutes, and private contact is rare.
连续通话一周后，对方渐渐退烧、好转，能自己出门买药吃饭了。
After a week of consecutive calls, the other side gradually reduce fever, improve, can go out to buy medicine to eat.
武汉人喜欢说“烦死人了”。
Wuhan people like to say "boring to death."
学者易中天曾写道，这是武汉人的口头禅，不管要表达真正的不满还是高兴的嗔怪，他们总是嘀咕烦。
'It's Wuhan mantra, 'wrote the scholar Yi Zhongtian.' They grumble whether they want to express real dissatisfaction or happy exasperation.
但在封城的一个多月里，留守的九百万武汉人表现出了极大的克制。
But for more than a month after the siege, the remaining nine million Wuhan people showed great restraint.
生长于此的心理医生卢林说，武汉的市井文化灵活、乐天、包容，虽然大家很愤怒也很哀伤，但仍没有添乱，“我们的人民是非常好的人民”。
Luolin, a psychologist who grew up in Wuhan, said the city's culture was flexible, happy and tolerant, and although people were angry and sad, it did not add insult to injury.
一位武汉当地电视台的年轻记者每天都要跑医院，经常处在“崩溃边缘”。
A young reporter on a local Wuhan television station has to run to the hospital every day, often on the verge of collapse.
他曾看见一位护士因病人没救过来，在病房里放声大哭。
He had seen a nurse crying loudly in the ward because the patient had not been rescued.
“这个城市每天都是生离死别。
"The city is torn apart every day.
”他对南方周末记者说。
"he told Southern Weekend reporter.
2006年的一项研究曾指出，SARS期间被隔离者中，29％的人表现出创伤后应激障碍，31％的人有抑郁症状。
A 2006 study had noted that 29 per cent of those isolated during SARS had post-traumatic stress disorder and 31 per cent had depressive symptoms.
台湾地区的一项调查则指出，经历SARS后，约9.2％的人对生活持有更悲观的看法，精神病的患病率为11.7％。
According to a survey conducted in Taiwan, after the SARS epidemic, about 9.2 percent had a more pessimistic view of life, with a mental illness rate of 11.7 percent.
作家方方接受中新社采访时说，生活在武汉的人几乎人人心里都有创伤，她自己也打算寻求心理帮助。
Writer Fang Fang told China News Agency that almost everyone living in Wuhan is traumatized and intends to seek psychological help herself.
未来武汉解封时，必定几家欢喜几家愁——人们终于自由了。
When Wuhan unseals in the future, it is certain that a few happy families - people are finally free.
“但那些病亡家属，必然格外悲伤，灯火万家，独少一人。
"But those who are sick and dead, must be exceptionally sad, full of lights, alone.
这种家破人亡的痛感只有自己知道。
The pain of a broken home is only self-evident.
”第一位上报疫情的张继先医生哭了无数次，病人死了、物资没了、体力透支了，“把一生的眼泪流光了”。
The first doctor to report the outbreak, Dr. Zhang Jixian, wept countless times. The patient died, ran out of supplies and ran out of energy.
洪山区心理志愿者鄢群真正体会到这句话的含义，是从身边人离世开始的。
Yan Qun, a mountain psychological volunteer, really understands the meaning of this sentence, beginning with the passing away of people around him.
她发现中国人惯于逃避生死，大都没有准备。
She found that the Chinese people used to escape life and death, most did not prepare.
“我想武汉市现在大多数人都体验到了，眼泪都哭干了；没有那么多的眼泪，因为你还要去生活。
"I think most people in Wuhan have experienced it now and the tears have dried up. There are not so many tears because you still have to live.
”鄢群对南方周末记者描述武汉人的内心创痛：“真正了解的人是不忍心去碰的，就好像刀子刚刚插进去，你是不能断然把刀子马上抽出来的。
Yan Qun told Southern Weekend reporter Yan Qun described the pain in Wuhan people's hearts: "People who really know can't touch it, just like knives that are just thrust in and you can't pull them out immediately.
”2020年2月17日，武汉体育中心方舱医院。
Wuhan Sports Center, Fang Mo Hospital, February 17, 2020.
（新华社 肖艺九/图）1“每天就在等，等什么时候发作”封城的消息公布时，大多数武汉人还在沉睡。
Most Wuhan people were still asleep when the news of the city's closure was announced.
1月23日凌晨四点，电影导演王启明醒得早，他事后记录下当时的感受：身体越来越沉，呼吸变得急促，“心里最后的那道防线完全垮掉了”。
At 4 a.m. on January 23, filmmaker Wang Qiming woke up early to record how he felt as his body grew heavy, his breathing became short and his "last line of defense collapsed."
他叫醒爱人，对方迷迷糊糊地问：这是你做的梦吗？肖劲松所在的武汉大学中南医院提早三周就流传开，出现了一种和SARS类似的传染病，甚至更狡猾。
He wakes up his loved one and asks, Is this your dream? The Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University, where Xiao Jinsong lives, spread three weeks earlier, and an infectious disease similar to SARS has appeared, even more slyly.
肖是神经内科医生，他接到的第一个求助电话来自医院内部同事，对方感染后，感到孤立无援。
Shaw, a neurologist, received his first call from a co-worker in the hospital and felt isolated after the infection.
那时大家都很迷茫，不知道即将面对的是什么，也根本想不到，很快他们将见到几十、上百位医护人员接连感染，“都是我们的同事，一个一个地倒下”。
At that time, people were confused and didn't know what they were going to face. They were soon to see dozens or hundreds of healthcare professionals infected, "all our colleagues, one by one."
23岁的女孩张梓铨陪母亲去医院，发热门诊早已人满为患，母亲咳嗽发烧，但不肯做CT检查，坚信自己“不会那么容易中招”。
The 23-year-old girl, Ambrose Zhang, accompanied her mother to the hospital. The fever clinic was already overcrowded and her mother coughed with fever.
封城之后不久，父亲也开始咳嗽。
Shortly after the siege, my father began to cough, too.
张梓铨最好的朋友是定点医院护士，父母也接连感染。
Zhang Ziquan's best friend is the designated hospital nurse, the parents also successively infected.
这种被包围的感觉，让两个年轻女孩觉得，“每天就在等，等什么时候发作，发作以后是严重还是不严重，你不知道哪一天会死掉”。
The feeling of being surrounded made the two young girls think, "Waiting every day, waiting for it to happen, whether it's serious or not, and you don't know when it's going to die."
她坚决不肯去爷爷家过年，给爷爷打电话：我肯定被感染了，不要传染给你们。
She resolutely refused to go to Grandpa's house New Year, to call Grandpa: I must be infected, do not infect you.
母亲怪她，“大过年的，别说这种不吉利的话”。
Mother blame her, "New Year's Eve, not to mention this unlucky words."
爷爷说：“不要紧的，你别哭。
"Don't cry, it doesn't matter," he said.
”爷爷跟着哭了起来。
"Grandfather began to cry.
23日当天，湖北省心理咨询师协会开通了最早的免费心理热线。
On February 23, the Hubei Psychological Association opened the earliest free psychological hotline.
会长肖劲松说，头三天，每天都有一百多个来电，接近六成是不知所措的普通人。
'For the first three days, there were more than 100 calls a day, 'says Xiao Jinsong, president of the Shanghai Municipal Bureau of Management.
“所有外出通道都关闭了，地铁、公交、轮渡都停运了，大家感觉有一种灾难，好像大祸临头，好像生死存亡的时刻到了。
"All the exits are closed and the subway, bus and ferry service are out of commission, and there is a feeling of disaster, as if the moment of life and death has arrived.
”为热线服务的心理咨询师王静说。
Wang Jing, a counselor for the hotline, said.
有人感到被抛弃，有人打算离婚，有人得了其它病不知该去哪里看，有些重疾病人没有了药。
Some people feel abandoned, others are going to get divorced, others have other illnesses and don't know where to look. Some people with serious illnesses have no medicine.
肖劲松的心理病人也面临药物短缺，他建议一位抑郁症患者减半药量，用7天的药撑满14天，不够就再减半，吃28天，“这样你这一个月就可以挺过去”。
Xiao Jinsong, a mental patient who also faces a shortage of drugs, suggested that a person suffering from depression halve his dose, spend 14 days with seven days of medication, then halve it again and eat 28 days, "so you can get through this month."
社区工作者同样感到恐惧，一位基层人员给潘兰打电话：我其实特别担心，家里有老人小孩，我每天在一线工作，会不会把病毒带回去？最初那些天，武汉一直阴雨。
Community workers were also frightened, a grass-roots call to Pan Lan: I am really worried that there are elderly children, I work on the front line every day, will not take the virus back? The first days, Wuhan has been rainy.
由于机动车禁行，李想和高烧不退的父亲骑着两辆自行车，从一家医院跑到另一家，穿梭在排队的、哭闹的、喊着“快不行了”的人群里。
Because of the ban on motor vehicles, Li and his feverish father rode two bicycles from one hospital to another, shuttling among queuing, crying, "It's getting worse."
一个中年女人无法入院，家属甚至带来一张床，搁在缴费台旁边，让她睡下。
A middle-aged woman was unable to go to hospital, and her family even brought a bed next to the toll booth to put her to sleep.
卢林原以为封城只会持续七天，到了初六，确诊数字仍在增加。
Lulin thought the city would last only seven days, but by the sixth day of junior high, the number of confirmed cases was still increasing.
这是武汉人最为艰难的一段时间，最大的无助归根结底还是没有床位。
This is the Wuhan people's most difficult period, the greatest helplessness is still no bed after all.
即使是心理热线，接到的大多数求助也是现实诉求。
Even the psychological hotline receives the majority of requests for help that are realistic.
心理师们想尽一切办法，不论公私关系，找寻床位。
Psychologists do everything in their power, public or private, to find beds.
“这时候一张床就是一条命。
"A bed is a life at this moment.
”卢林说。
'he said.
在持续高烧中排了12天，李想的父亲才等到这张床。
After 12 days of feverish fevers, Li's father waited for the bed.
这期间，父亲独自在卧室隔离，门口摆着一张凳子，饭好了就摆上去，人走开了才拿。
During this time, the father alone in the bedroom isolation, a stool at the door, put up when the meal is ready, people walk away to take.
但86岁的奶奶不听劝，总是半夜爬起来，去父亲的房间摸他的额头，看他有没有退烧。
But the 86-year-old grandmother would get up in the middle of the night and touch his forehead to see if he had a fever.
父亲住进医院的第二天，奶奶也发烧了。
The day after my father was admitted to the hospital, my grandma had a fever.
张梦琳整晚整晚睡不着，总是哭。
Zhang Menglin couldn't sleep all night and always cried.
她为母亲找床位，给医院、社区、志愿者打电话，发微博，填报了所有求助登记，得到的结果都是等通知。
She found beds for her mother, called hospitals, communities, volunteers, posted tweets and filled in all her calls, all of which resulted in waiting notices.
尽管现在已经恢复了平静，张梦琳对南方周末记者形容当时的感受：“前面没有任何路可以走了，就是一条死路，也没有人可以帮你。
Although calm has now been restored, Zhang Menglin told Southern Weekend reporter described the feeling: "There is no way forward, is a dead end, no one can help you.
”为了帮一位患者寻找床位，王静打给各级政府，联系了所有渠道，依然解决不了。
To help a patient find a bed, Wang called authorities at all levels and contacted all the channels, but was unable to find a solution.
她相信如果有多余床位，一定会安排，“他们也确实无能为力”。
If there were extra beds, she believed, they would be arranged, "and there was nothing they could do."
但她不知道该怎么回拨这个电话，她不能面对——“面对一个具体的人，而这个灾难发生他的身上”。
But she did not know how to call back, she could not face - "face a specific person, and this disaster happened to him."
2“哀伤是我们的权利”即便在武汉，感染者和非感染者也仿佛置身两个世界。
"Sorrow is our right" Even in Wuhan, infected and non-infected people seem to be in two worlds.
母亲高烧、咳血，张梓铨求助无门，同在武汉的大学辅导员打来电话，“难道你们没去定点医院检查？”“定点医院？”她感到不可思议，“你知道多厉害的人才能去吗？”在一个雨夜，张梓铨的父母再次赶往医院，她看见那两个穿雨衣奔跑的背影，歇斯底里地崩溃了。
His mother had a high fever and coughed up blood. He called the university counselor in Wuhan. "Didn't you go to the hospital?" She wondered. "Do you know how many people can go?"
她哭到嗓子哑，想到了死亡。
She sobbed herself hoarse and thought of death.
她打了无数电话求医问诊，一度拨通了心理热线，不过无人接听。
She made numerous phone calls for medical attention and once dialed the psychological hotline, but no one answered.
父母赶在零点前回到家，CT结果显示母亲确诊。
The parents returned home before midnight, and CT findings showed that the mother was diagnosed.
那一刻，张梓铨竟感觉“放下心来了”——“突然就觉得平静了，真的是平静了”。
At that moment, Ambrose Zhang actually feel "ease the heart come" - "suddenly feel calm, really calm."
未知和不确定几乎把她逼疯，现在好歹确定了。
Uncertainty and uncertainty almost drove her mad, and now she was sure.
一家人商量，既然已经待在一起那么多天，之后索性不再隔离了，在家不戴口罩，也没有消毒。
The family agreed to stay together for so many days, then simply no longer isolated, not wearing a mask at home, nor disinfection.
医护人员的情绪也陷入了异样的平静。
The mood of the paramedics was also strangely calm.
最初，肖劲松每天都会接到四五个医生的求助电话，随着疫情加重，反而变少了。
Initially, Xiao Jinsong received four or five calls a day from doctors. As the epidemic worsened, it dwindled.
他分析，大家要么处在“应激抵抗期”，来不及收拾情绪；要么就是选择了默默忍受。
He analyses that people are either in "stress resistance", too late to deal with their emotions, or they choose to suffer in silence.
他给同事们设定“硬杠杆”——当工作效率下降或不能正常生活，一定要给他打电话。
He sets a "hard lever" for his colleagues - make sure to call him when his productivity is down or he can't live a normal life.
当天，这个方法短暂地奏效了，之后又恢复了平静。
On that day, the method worked briefly, and then the calm returned.
王静说，医护人员最大的问题还是累，闷在防护服里一天，有些轮班后躺在地上就睡了，根本没有说话的力气。
Wang Jing said that the biggest problem for medical workers is still tired, stuffy in protective clothing for a day, some shifts after lying on the ground sleep, there is no strength to speak.
一线救援人员常见的情况是出现“替代性创伤”——目击他人遭受苦难，产生共情，把别人的创伤当作自己的创伤。
It is common for first-line responders to develop "alternative trauma" - witnessing suffering, empathy, and treating others "trauma as their own trauma.
肖劲松在汶川为救灾人员提供过心理辅导，救援时，大家生龙活虎，结束后回到部队，早晨起床号吹响，没人起床，“心理出问题了”。
Xiao Jinsong in Wenchuan to provide psychological support for relief workers, rescue, everyone active, after returning to the army, in the morning, no one wake up, "psychological problems."
一位护士经历了父母先后离世。
A nurse experienced the death of her parents.
肖劲松形容那种痛苦——“难以言状，就像是眼睁睁看着亲人死在自己怀里的感觉”。
Xiao Jinsong described the pain - "unspeakable, like watching a loved one die in his arms."
这位护士继续工作，维持在创伤应激反应的“抵抗期”——在这个阶段，交感神经处于兴奋状态，仍然可以全身心投入工作“，被崇高的事业笼罩着，来不及哀伤”。
The nurse continued to work, maintaining a "period of resistance" to traumatic stress - a period when the sympathetic nervous system is excited and can still devote itself to work, "cloaked in lofty cause without time for sadness."
如果进入下一个阶段“衰竭期”，创伤体验就会出现。
If the next stage of "exhaustion" occurs, the traumatic experience will occur.
肖劲松问她是否愿意回家休息，她说，回家之后，面对那个房子、父母用过的东西，“我能干什么？我还不如上班。
When Xiao Jinsong asked her if she would like to go home for a rest, she said, "What can I do with the house and the things my parents have used?
我在帮助病人的时候，感觉我在做点什么”。
I felt like I was doing something while I was helping the patients.
“哀伤是我们的权利，哀伤是治愈心理创伤的一种情绪宣泄，我们要痛哭，要发泄情绪。
"Sorrow is our right. Sorrow is an emotional outpourring of psychological trauma. We have to cry and vent our emotions.
”肖劲松说，“一定要学会把人的正常的情感，哪怕我们觉得是负面的情感表达出来，实际上它都是有意义的。
"You have to learn to express your normal emotions, even if they are negative, in a meaningful way," says Xiao.
”2月6日晚，李文亮医生抢救、离世的消息传来，肖劲松所在的医生同事群里鸦雀无声，完全“静默了”。
On the night of February 6, word came of Dr. Li Wenliang's rescue and death that Xiao Jingsong's doctors and colleagues were silent and "silent.
由于气氛太过压抑，职工心理指导小组的成员悄悄问他：该怎么办？肖劲松在群里说：让我们哀痛一下，让我们宣泄一下。
Because the atmosphere is too oppressive, the staff psychological guidance group members quietly asked him: What should do? Xiao Jinsong said in the group: let us mourn, let us vent.
沉默是医生的宣泄方式。
Silence is the doctor's way of venting.
“想说，但是又怕给李医生添乱。
"I want to, but I'm afraid to mess with Dr. Lee.
”肖劲松对南方周末记者说，“医护人员就是这样一群人，当受到委屈的时候，大家就这样承受着。
"Medical workers are such a group," Xiao told Southern Weekend reporter. "When people are wronged, they suffer like this.
我们是医护工作者，你一发牢骚，就会影响一大批人。
We are health care workers, and when you whine, you affect a large number of people.
”哀痛停留只此一晚，第二天，群里活跃如常，“谈工作、谈一些正能量的事”。
"Pain stopped only for one night, and the next day the group was as active as ever," talking about work and positive energy.
3 “别把他们当作病人”寻死的念头会在某些极端的时刻找上门。
The idea of "Don't treat them as patients" will come to you at some extreme moment.
张梓铨的母亲被确诊后，医院让她回家隔离，“就感觉是让我在家里自生自灭”。
Zhang Ziquan's mother was diagnosed, the hospital let her go home isolation, "the feeling is to let me at home on their own."
母亲连续发烧九天，她不想吃药，说想死，活着没意思。
Mother had a fever for nine days in a row. She didn't want to take the medicine.
张梓铨没什么反应，父亲也没说话，就像对一切已经习以为常。
Zhang Ziquan did not react, his father did not speak, as if all has become accustomed to.
2003年SARS期间，台北市和平医院封院后，一名年近五旬的男性患者在病房浴室上吊自杀。
During the SARS period in 2003, after the closure of Taipei Peace Hospital, a male patient aged nearly 50 hanged himself in the bathroom of the ward.
“人在过于绝望的情况下，可能会实施自杀，也可能用一种‘及时行乐’‘最后的狂欢’来防御这种绝望感。
"In situations of over-desperation, people can kill themselves, or they can defend themselves against despair with a" last-ditch orgy "of instant gratification.
”心理咨询师于玲娜说。
"said Yu Linna, a counselor.
1月30日下午，感染科主任向肖劲松求助，一位患者喊着要自杀。
On the afternoon of January 30, the director of infection asked Xiao Jinsong for help, and one patient shouted that he wanted to kill himself.
肖劲松穿上防护服，紧急进入病房。
Xiao Jinsong put on protective clothing and entered the ward urgently.
患者很激动，打针的时候一直挣扎，胳膊都肿了。
The patient was so excited that he struggled with the injection and his arms were swollen.
她不知道自己患病，把父母、丈夫、六个月大的孩子全都传染了。
She did not know she was ill and infected her parents, her husband and her six-month-old child.
她觉得自己是家里的罪人，再没有活下去的意义。
She felt that she was a sinner in her family and had no meaning to live on.
“那个滋味是很难受的，她不用开口，我们都感同身受。
"It was hard, she didn't need to open her mouth, we all felt the same way.
”肖劲松说。
"said Xiao Jinsong.
她不敢和家人联系，肖劲松就劝她联系亲戚、同学，为她找回情感支持。
She did not dare to contact her family, Xiao Jinsong advised her to contact relatives, classmates, to find her emotional support.
肖劲松改变她的自责认知，“你不是罪人，你和家人都是受害者。
"You're not a sinner. You and your family are both victims.
覆巢之下，焉有完卵？是整个鸟巢翻了，我们都是这场大疫的受害者。
Under the cover of the nest, there are eggs? Is the whole nest overturned, we are all victims of the pandemic.
”但肖劲松也感叹，被家人怪罪、埋怨的传染者“太多了”。
But Xiao Jinsong also lamented that the family blamed blame, blame the contagion "too much."
由此产生的内疚感会让人的心理创伤难以愈合。
Guilt over it would make it hard to heal.
中国灾害防御协会社会心理服务专委会秘书长祝卓宏在汶川地震后做了三年心理援助，见过一位妻子反复回想，丈夫临行前要搂着她亲一口，她没有同意，丈夫开车进山，被大石头砸中死了。
Zhu Zhuohong, Secretary-General of the Social and Psychological Services Committee of the China Disaster Defense Association, gave psychological assistance for three years after the Wenchuan earthquake. He met a wife who repeatedly recalled that her husband had to hug her before he left.
她长久惦记那个未能答应的亲吻，“有内疚，就有自责，甚至会自伤、自杀”。
She has long been thinking of the failed kiss, "guilt, there is remorse, even self-injury, suicide."
地震是突如其来的天灾，疾病则缓缓侵蚀人体，一旦有亲人确诊，家属可能陷入纠结，想靠近又不敢靠近。
Earthquakes are sudden natural disasters, disease slowly erodes the human body, once a family member is diagnosed, family members may be entangled, want to close but dare not close.
于玲娜告诉南方周末记者：“这种痛苦可能是公共性、传染性疾病特有的心理创伤，可能是挺复杂的创伤。
"The pain could be public, contagious-disease-specific trauma, and it can be quite complex," Yu told Southern Weekend.
”一间方舱医院的主任告诉肖劲松：“我们70%的工作都在处理心理问题。
"Seventy percent of our jobs deal with psychological problems," said Xiao Jinsong, director of a cabin hospital.
”在另一家定点医院里，有位老人坚持要出院，拒不配合，撕烂了护士的防护服，警察也赶来了。
At another appointed hospital, an old man insisted on being discharged from the hospital, refused to cooperate, tore up the nurse's protective clothing and the police arrived.
一位医生上前安抚，聊天之后才得知，老人有老年痴呆的前期症状，认知功能已经退化。
A doctor to pacify, chat after just learned, old people have senile dementia early symptoms, cognitive function has degenerated.
相处一段时间后，老人和护士们熟起来，逐渐有了安全感。
After some time together, the old man and the nurses got acquainted and gradually felt safe.
这位医生问肖劲松，“我们这样处理适合吗？”肖劲松告诉他：病人反应好，就是适合的。
The doctor asked Xiao Jinsong, "Is it all right for us to do this?" Xiao Jinsong told him that patients respond well and are suitable.
潘兰接到来自疾控中心的求援，单独隔离病房的患者怒吼、哭泣，喊着“不想活了”。
Pan Lan received a call for help from the CDC. Patients in the isolation ward yelled, cried, "Don't want to live."
尽管医院里发放了应对心理问题的小册子，但紧急情况下派不上用场，“你想一个处于情绪波动的人会去看吗？”潘兰教医生牵着患者的手，对他说：我们再挺一挺就过去了。
Although the hospital distributed pamphlets on how to deal with psychological problems, it was not useful in an emergency situation, "Do you think a person in a mood swing would go to see it?" Dr. Pan took the patient by the hand and said, We'll get through it again.
“把他们当作一个正常人，别把他们当作病人。
"Think of them as normal people, not as patients.
”潘兰说，“这句话，比任何方法技巧都有作用。
"said Pan Lan." This sentence has more effect than any method or technique.
”4“给他一个满意的结局，否则永远也过不去”疫情之下，生死忽然变得稀松平常。
"Give him a satisfactory outcome, or he will never get past the epidemic," and life and death suddenly become commonplace.
一位律师失去了七十多岁的父亲，生前，父亲被救护车拉着辗转多家医院，都没有床位，到一处检查、打针，两天后又被拉去另一处、再打一针。
A lawyer lost his father, who was in his seventies, to a number of hospitals in an ambulance, without beds, where he was examined, injected and, two days later, taken to another location and given another injection.
“人的尊严荡然无存，能够被接过去打一针，已经是感恩戴德了。
Human dignity is extinguished, and it is grateful to be received and given an injection.
”他在与王静的通话里哭得很伤心。
"He was crying over the phone with Wang Jing.
在这个特殊时期，尸体不能在殡仪馆停放，当场就得火化。
At this particular time, the body could not be parked at the funeral parlour and had to be cremated on the spot.
王静说，这会给家人留下创伤，需要“完形治疗”——等疫情过去，她建议律师带着父亲的骨灰，回老家办一场体面的葬礼，“给他一个满意的结局，否则永远也过不去”。
Wang said it would leave her family traumatized and would need "gestalt treatment" - and when the outbreak was over, she suggested that lawyers take their father's ashes and go home for a decent funeral, "give him a satisfactory end, or never get past it."
传统文化中的丧葬仪式原本是很好的心理疗愈。
The funeral rites in traditional culture were originally good psychological healing.
“没有追悼会、没有很好的临终关怀，就会很难疗愈失去亲人的心理创伤。
"Without memorial services and hospice care, it would be difficult to heal the trauma of losing loved ones.
”祝卓宏对南方周末记者说，“死亡一个人，周围的直系亲属可能得达到6-8个，最痛苦的就是这部分人，他们可能会出现严重的创伤性哀伤，创伤后的抑郁以及自杀风险还是存在的。
Zhu Zhuohong told Southern Weekend reporter: "The death of a person, the immediate family around may have to reach 6-8, the most painful of which is that they may have serious traumatic sadness, post-traumatic depression and suicide risk.
”潘兰的一位朋友向她求助——六十多岁的父亲感染了，在医院上了呼吸机。
One of her friends asked for help - her father, in his sixties, was infected and put on a ventilator in the hospital.
潘兰为她纾解情绪。
Pan Lan soothed her feelings.
三天后她再打过去，对方说，父亲已经走了，上次通完话，次日夜里没挺过去。
She called again three days later, and was told that her father had gone, that he had talked the last time, and that he had not made it the next night.
“爸爸走的时候，我连摸都不能摸他。
"I can't even touch Dad when he's gone.
我唯一能做的就是跪在地上不停地磕头。
All I can do is kneel on the ground and kowtow constantly.
”挂掉这个电话，潘兰痛哭了一场。
"Hang up the phone, and Pan cried bitterly.
一对年轻夫妻育有十岁的龙凤胎，丈夫感染新冠肺炎，突然去世。
A young couple had a ten-year-old dragon and phoenix fetus.
妻子把自己关起来，闭门不出，不接任何亲友的电话。
The wife locked herself up, shut herself up and did not answer any phone calls from relatives or friends.
社区妇联主任找到鄢群，向她求助。
The Director of ACWF Yan Qun approached her for help.
鄢群回答：她现在的自闭就是对自己最好的保护，把菜送好、孩子看好，“让她在自己的世界里待一段时间吧”。
"Her current shut-ins are the best protection for her," Yan Qun replied. "Give her food and keep her in her own world for a while."
卢林在汶川见到很多人，事发一个月后创伤才开始浮现。
Lulin met many people in Wenchuan, the incident after a month before the trauma began to emerge.
有人离开了四川，外出流浪；有人看透了生死，再难获得安全感。
Some people left Sichuan, wandering outside; someone saw through the life and death, again difficult to obtain a sense of security.
某种程度上，张梓铨是幸运的，母亲渐渐退烧，精神也好起来了，社区安排她去酒店隔离。
To some extent, Ambrose is lucky, mother gradually reduce fever, the spirit of the better, the community arranged her to go to the hotel isolation.
但这个女孩身上的一些东西已经永远被改变了——她发现过去所知的常识全都失效了，“原来你之前的生活是那么脆弱”。
But something about the girl had been changed forever - she found that all the common sense she had known had been lost. "Life was so fragile before."
最初的几天，她还盘算着封城结束之后可以去喜欢的电视台实习，“还在想‘前途’这种很高等的需求”。
For the first few days, she also thought about her favorite TV internship after the closure of the city. "I still think about the high demand for the future."
现在，这个爱打扮、爱吃喝玩乐的女孩每天躺着，不洗头、不洗澡，父亲做点饭，她就吃一点。
Now, this love to dress, love to eat, drink and play every day lie down, do not wash, do not bathe, her father do some cooking, she ate a little.
张梓铨觉得自己已经不是“正常人”。
Zhang Ziquan felt that he was no longer "normal."
托尔斯泰的一句话也许可作为参照，“把死置诸脑后的生活，和时时刻刻都意识到人在一步步走向死亡的生活，是两种截然不同的状态。
Tolstoy's remark might serve as a point of reference. "To put death behind us, and to be aware all the time that we are walking towards death, are two very different states.
”因为在网上求援，有记者采访张梓铨，问她是否需要帮助。
For her help online, a reporter interviewed Ambrose Zhang and asked her if she needed help.
她回答：希望你们多关心那些更底层的人——“不会上网、没有关系、无车无房无亲戚无任何保证的人，他们怎么办呢？”每当张梓铨在微博上表达武汉人的痛苦，就有人来和她辩论，指责她传播恐慌。
She said: "I hope you pay more attention to those at the bottom -" no Internet, no relationship, no car, no home, no relatives, no guarantee, what will they do? "When Zhang Zi expressed the pain of Wuhan people on Weibo, someone would argue with her and accuse her of spreading panic.
“好像打破了谁的美梦一样。
"It seems to have broken anybody's dream.
我不说的话，那些人不就白死了吗？”她对南方周末记者说，“他们好像不是一个病人，也不是一个人，他们就是恐慌的源头。
Don't those people die for nothing if I don't say so? "she told Southern Weekend reporter." They don't seem to be a patient or a person. They're a source of panic.
”“他们都是我每天擦肩而过的人，一起排队买奶茶的人，买菜闲拌两句嘴的人，现在，我们、他们，都成了‘灾民’，甚至成了‘死者’，成了追着殡仪车哭嚎叫喊的人，我如何去接受？”张梓铨说。
'They were the people I passed every day, queuing up for tea, and buying and trifling with each other. Now we, them, have become 'victims' and even 'dead' and become undertakers, crying and screaming after the undertakers.
2月15日，武汉下了一场大雪，雪花覆盖在空荡荡的街道与很久无人开动的汽车上。
February 15, Wuhan, a heavy snow, snowflakes in the empty streets and a long time no one started on the car.
往常这样的时候，鄢群会很高兴，因为可以去梅园赏雪了。
Normally, Yan Qun is happy because they can go to the plum orchard to enjoy the snow.
这一天她待在家里接求助热线，担忧着外头值守的警察、工作人员，太冷了，“千万不能感冒啊”。
That day she stayed home to pick up the helpline, worried about the police, staff on duty outside, too cold, "must not catch a cold."
张梦琳平复了下来，母亲终于住院了。
Zhang Menglin recovered and her mother was finally hospitalized.
她祈求命运的方式是“行善积德”，很多志愿者给她送了药，她打算等14天隔离结束，就去报名给老人送菜。
She prayed for her fate by "doing good deeds" and many volunteers gave her medicine. She planned to wait until the 14-day quarantine was over before signing up to deliver food to the elderly.
“他们开始懂得，死亡时刻威胁着每个人……”托尔斯泰写道，“他们也开始懂得，疾病不应该把人们分开，恰恰相反，它应该为人类相爱提供机会。
"They are beginning to understand that death is a constant threat to everyone..." Tolstoy wrote. "They are also beginning to understand that disease should not separate people.
”王静总是描述武汉有多美，来宽慰热线咨询者。
"Wang Jing always described how beautiful Wuhan was to comfort hotline consultants.
她邀请外地人在疫情结束后来看武大的樱花。
She invited outsiders to see the cherry blossoms after the outbreak ended.
她对武汉人会说：让我们春暖花开时，相约在东湖绿道，相约在黄鹤楼。
She would say to Wuhan: let us spring flowers bloom, together in the East Lake green road, about the Yellow Crane Tower.
所有心理援助者都清楚，疫情终会结束，但武汉人内心的安宁不知何时到来。
All the mental aid workers know that the epidemic will end, but Wuhan people do not know when the internal peace.
戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
Click the image below to continue reading the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉的九百万种心碎。
Wuhan has nine million heartbreaks.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "武汉的九百万种心碎";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "“她不用开口 ，我们都感同身受”";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "She didn't need to speak up; we all sympathized with & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
