抢救重症病人： “敢死队”插管、专家“捞人”。
Rescue severe patients: "Jet death team" intubation, expert "fished up."
马肃平 崔慧莹。
Ma Su PingCui Ying.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲湖北省医疗救治组专家在同济医院中法新城院区新冠肺炎重症病区与患者交谈。
The experts of Hubei medical treatment group talked with the patients in the serious area of Newcastle Pneumonia in Tongji Hospital.
（新华社/图）全文共6264字，阅读大约需要14分钟。
The full text will be 6,264 words and will take about 14 minutes to read.
就在徐慧连觉得患者能化险为夷时，一天后交班的她却发现，这位患者的床已经换了人，“满打满算也就一天时间”。
Just when Xu thought the patient could survive, she turned over a day later to find that the patient's bed had been changed.
在武汉，一切都很快:突然间，眼前的患者成了死亡统计里的“1”。
In Wuhan, everything was quick: suddenly, the patient in front of him became the "one" in the death statistics.
有人说，“插管小分队”之说还不够悲壮，应该叫“敢死队”——插管的那一刻，麻醉师需凑近患者的口腔才能看到气管开口，尽可能将软管置入气管内，病人的呼吸道会喷涌出传播力极强的气溶胶。
Some people say, "Intubation team" is not strong enough, should be called "death squads" - the moment the anesthesiologist needs to be close to the mouth of the patient to see the trachea opening, as far as possible into the trachea, the patient's respiratory tract will spew out very powerful aerosols.
国家卫健委重症巡查组的专家分成12个组，搭配武汉本地专家，每天从各家定点医院的ICU病房“捞人”：对轻症病人进行评估，筛查出重症病人，将其转至救治重症和危重症的定点医院。
Experts from the intensive care unit of the National Fitness and Health Commission are divided into 12 teams, with local experts from Wuhan. They are fished daily from the ICU wards of selected hospitals: light patients are assessed, serious cases are screened and referred to designated hospitals for treatment of serious and critical cases.
本作品著作权归南方周末独家所有，授权深圳市腾讯计算机系统有限公司独家享有信息网络传播权，任何第三方未经授权，不得转载。
The copyright of this work belongs exclusively to Southern Weekend, and authorizes Shenzhen Tencent Computer System Co. Ltd. to enjoy exclusive rights of information network transmission.
文 | 南方周末特派记者 马肃平 崔慧莹责任编辑 | 曹海东杨芳的生命掌握在一根软管能否顺利插入喉咙。
At South Weekend, our correspondent Ma Su Pingcui Ying was responsible for AT & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
推入镇静剂和肌肉松弛药，意识已模糊的67岁老人杨芳随即陷入昏睡状态，慢慢安静下来。
With sedatives and muscle relaxants, Yang Fang, a 67-year-old who has lost consciousness, fell into a trance and calmed down.
从注射麻醉药到停止自主呼吸，留给“插管小分队”的时间窗口只有90秒——其中还包括麻醉药起效的60秒。
From anaesthesia to stopping breathing autonomously, the time window for the Intubation Squad is only 90 seconds - including 60 seconds of anesthetic action.
保护口唇，可视喉镜挑开嘴巴和咽喉。
Protect your mouth and throat with a visible laryngoscope.
“能看见吗？”“能。
Can you see it? Yes.
”短促答复中，麻醉师迅即递上一根长约22厘米、内径8毫米的软管。
In his brief reply, the anesthesiologist quickly handed him a hose about 22 cm long and 8 mm inside.
此时，麻醉师的双眼正和杨芳的口鼻相对，看到气管开口，软管才能置入气管内。
At this point, the anesthesiologist's eyes and Yang Fang's mouth and nose opposite, see trachea opening, hose can be placed into the trachea.
软管有惊无险地从口腔置入，直抵声门，插入气管。
The hose was breathlessly inserted from the mouth, straight into the glottis and into the trachea.
30秒内，杨芳的气道直接开放，肺部气溶胶直冲而出，直抵麻醉师的正压防护头套——近距离呼吸道接触，这是医护人员感染风险最高的动作。
Within 30 seconds, Yang Fang's airway opened directly and the pulmonary aerosols shot out of the anaesthetist's front cover, close airway contact, the highest risk of infection for paramedics.
阳光透过玻璃窗洒在病床上，患者的各项机能通过监测仪器上的滴滴声有节奏地发出信号，杨芳的主治医师刘勇军稍稍松了口气。
The sun shines through the window of the hospital bed. The patient's functions are signaled rhythmically by the drip of the monitor, and Liu Yongjun, Yang Fang's attending physician, breathes a little relief.
这一天，是刘勇军在武汉协和医院西院驰援的第10天，他是中山大学附属第一医院重症医学科副主任医师。
On this day, Liu Yung Jun is the deputy director of severe medicine at Zhongshan University's First Affiliated Hospital on the 10th day of assistance in the west courtyard of Wuhan Concorde Hospital.
刘勇军记得，杨芳戴着鼻氧管刚转来时，血氧饱和度（血液中血氧的浓度，观察病人呼吸循环的参数）只有八十多，远低于93%的及格线。
When Yang Fang first turned around with her nose, Liu remembered, the oxygen saturation (the concentration of blood oxygen in the blood and the parameters for observing a patient's breathing cycle) was only about 80, well below the 93% pass line.
那天是2月8日傍晚7点。
It was 7: 00 p.m. on February 8th.
戴上无创呼吸面罩后，患者病情平稳了三天。
After wearing a non-invasive breathing mask, the patient's condition stabilized for three days.
但三天后，只要摘下氧气面罩，哪怕喝口水、吃口饭，血氧饱和度就蹭蹭往下掉。
But three days later, as long as you take off the oxygen mask, even drink saliva, eat rice, blood oxygen saturation dawdle down.
重力让处于底部的肺泡被“压塌”，为了帮杨芳打开肺泡，引流和排出痰液，全副武装的护士必须给她翻身，白天翻成俯卧位，晚上再翻回来。
Gravity causes the alveoli at the bottom to collapse. To help Yang Fang open her alveoli, drain and excrete sputum, heavily armed nurses must turn her over, turn her into a prone position during the day and turn back at night.
“谈脱离危险还为时过早。
"It's too early to talk about getting out.
”插管后的第二天，杨芳的病情依然不见改观。
The day after the intubation, Yang Fang's condition remained unchanged.
肾衰、肌钙蛋白（心肌损害标志物）升高、血压往下掉……脏器衰竭的迹象依次出现。
Kidney failure, elevated troponin (a marker of myocardial damage), falling blood pressure... signs of organ failure.
对于刘勇军而言，这不是他第一次面对险境，也不会是最后一次。
For Liu, this is not the first time he has faced danger, nor will it be the last.
生或死，在2020年的江城，只有几分钟的时间，有时甚至取决于有没有一根输氧管。
Living or dying, in the city of Jiangcheng in 2020, is only a few minutes away, sometimes even depending on the presence of an oxygen tube.
新冠肺炎患者中，约有10%-20%会发展成重症——气促，呼吸频率每分钟大于30次；正常状态下指尖的血氧饱和度小于93%。
About 10% to 20% of patients with new crown pneumonia develop severe symptoms - shortness of breath, breathing more than 30 times per minute; normal finger tips have blood oxygen saturation of less than 93%.
重症中，又有少数会发展成危重症——患者需要在呼吸机的帮助下维持气道通畅，有些出现休克，还伴有其他器官功能衰竭。
In severe cases, a small number develop into critical cases - patients who need ventilator help to maintain airway flow, some with shock and other organ failure.
事实上，自2月9日以来，大量在前期无法入院而被延误的病人转入重症救治定点医院，门诊压力减小，重症病房里的空气却越来越凝重。
Indeed, since 9 February, a large number of patients who had been unable to be hospitalized in the previous period had been transferred to intensive care referral hospitals, the pressure on outpatient clinics had decreased and the air in the intensive care unit was becoming heavier.
8326，7355，426——这是截至2月25日分布在湖北省、武汉市和湖北之外的重症病例数。
This is the number of serious cases distributed in Hubei, Wuhan and Hubei provinces as of February 25.
简单估算，2月初武汉的病死率是湖北之外全国总体水平的30倍。
Simple estimates, Wuhan in early February of the case fatality rate is outside Hubei the overall level of 30 times.
与死神赛跑，抢救重症患者，成为当下最迫切的任务。
Running a race with death to save the seriously ill has become the most urgent task.
136个危重症患者走了17个张挪富已经送走了17人。
136 critically ill patients have walked 17 Zhang Nofu has sent 17 people away.
从医三十多年，广州医科大学附属第一医院副院长张挪富第一次被深深的无力感包围。
After more than 30 years as a doctor, Zhang Nofu, vice-dean of Guangzhou Medical University's First Affiliated Hospital, was for the first time surrounded by a deep sense of powerlessness.
对于降低死亡率，2月17日和钟南山院士视频连线会诊时，这位钟南山院士团队在武汉的负责人言语沮丧，“我们确实努力了，但目前似乎还没看到明显的成效”。
"We did try, but we don't seem to have seen any significant results yet," said Zhong Nan-shan, director of the Zhong Nan Shan group of academicians during a video-link consultation on Feb. 17 in Wuhan.
张挪富团队接管的武汉协和西院重症监护病房（ICU），躺着疫区武汉最脆弱的20个人。
Zhang's team took over the Wuhan Concorde West Hospital Intensive Care Unit (ICU), lying in the epidemic area of Wuhan the most vulnerable 20 people.
症状最轻的浑身都插满了管子——气管插管后连着呼吸机，大腿根部股静脉处的管子用来血液过滤，只能靠鼻饲营养液生存。
The lightest symptoms are covered with tubes - a ventilator attached to a trachea tube, a tube in the femoral vein at the base of the thigh that is used for blood filtration and can only survive by nasal feeding.
2月3日开始接管ICU的两周内，36个危重症患者，走了17个。
In the two weeks since the start of the ICU takeover on 3 February, 17 of the 36 critically ill patients have been evacuated.
每天晚上，张挪富都会向钟南山汇报当天病人的情况，视频会诊也保持在每周一次的频率，挑出两三个具有代表性的疑难病例，和广州专家讨论。
Every night, Zhang Nofu reports back to Zhong Nan Shan about his patients that day. Video consultations are also held on a weekly basis, and two or three representative cases of suspicious cases are selected and discussed with experts in Guangzhou.
疫情胶着拉锯的2月17日，视频连线中第一次提到了“拔管”——一位患者的病情明显好转，有望在三四天后拔除气管插管。
For the first time, a video link on Feb. 17 featured a "pull-out" - a patient whose condition is apparently improving and is expected to unplug a trachea tube in three or four days.
和2003年的SARS相比，新冠肺炎不仅攻击肺，心脏和肾脏也会受到影响，重症患者心肌受损尤为常见。
Compared with SARS in 2003, coronary pneumonia not only attacks the lungs, but also affects the heart and kidneys, especially the heart muscle in critically ill patients.
有人上了呼吸机后生命体征平稳，血氧饱和度超过了93%的及格线，但没过多久，心跳骤停。
Someone on the ventilator after the signs of life stable, blood oxygen saturation exceeding 93% of the pass line, but soon, the heartbeat stopped.
究竟是缺氧时间过长所致，还是新型冠状病毒对心脏发起了攻击？尽管呼吸内科专业常年雄踞全国第一，但面对这种有太多未知的疾病，张挪富也说不出答案。
Is the lack of oxygen too long caused, or the new coronavirus attack on the heart? Although the respiratory medicine profession has been ranked first in the country, but the face of so many unknown diseases, Zhang also can not say the answer.
协和西院ICU病房向上四层，原本的胸外科病区被中山大学附属第一医院团队接管，同样改建成了重症病区。
The ICU ward in the Concorde West Ward was taken over by a team from Zhongshan University's First Hospital. It was also converted into an intensive care unit.
50个患者中年龄最大的83岁，有人11月底刚安了3个心脏支架，有肾衰患者需常年透析，还有人此前被查出罹患淋巴瘤。
The oldest of the 50 patients, the 83-year-old, had just three cardiac stents installed at the end of November, patients with renal failure required constant dialysis, and others had previously been diagnosed with lymphoma.
患者得了新冠肺炎后，肺部的氧气交换功能变差，氧不够，影响其他脏器。
After the new crown pneumonia, the oxygen exchange function of lung becomes worse, oxygen is insufficient, affect other viscera.
而其他脏器的情况恶化，又会让肺部受损，复杂的情况让治疗难度陡增。
As other organs deteriorate, causing damage to the lungs, complications add to the difficulty of treatment.
绝大多数死亡案例，都不仅仅是单一的新冠肺炎问题。
The vast majority of deaths are more than just a single case of new crown pneumonia.
国家卫健委医政医管局副局长焦雅辉此前介绍，武汉的重症病例约占所有确诊病例和住院病例的18%，他们共同的特点是年龄比较大，合并有基础疾病，从发病到住院的时间比较长，有很多患者在入院的时候已经处于重症和危重症状态。
The State Administration of Health and Welfare, Deputy Director of the Hospital Authority, Jiao Yahui, had previously described severe cases in Wuhan, which accounted for about 18% of all confirmed cases and hospitalized cases.
和SARS相比，新冠肺炎的病情进展更快，缺氧发展很明显。
Compared with SARS, the disease progression of new crown pneumonia is faster, the development of hypoxia is obvious.
从斑片状磨砂玻璃影到丝丝缕缕的“全白肺”——白色一般预示着肺部被炎症所侵润，往往只需一两天。
From patches of ground glass to filaments of "all-white lungs" - white signals that the lungs are infiltrated by inflammation, often in just a day or two.
浙江省中山医院呼吸内科副主任医师徐慧连曾参与抢救过一位六十多岁的男性患者，上了呼吸机，但生命体征平稳，看着体质不错，肝肾功能也没问题。
Xu Hui Liang, deputy director of respiratory medicine at Zhongshan Hospital in Zhejiang Province, was involved in rescuing a male patient in his sixties.
就在徐慧连觉得他能化险为夷时，一天后来交班的她却发现，这位患者的床已经换了人。
Just when Xu thought he could survive, she turned over a day later to find that the patient's bed had changed.
“满打满算也就一天时间”。
"A full count is a day."
以前的抢救，多数会经历很久，可以找家属反复谈话。
The previous rescue, most will experience a long time, can look for the family to talk over and over.
但在武汉，一切都很快:突然间，眼前的患者成了死亡统计里的那个“1”。
But in Wuhan, everything is fast: all of a sudden, the person in front of him becomes the "one" in the death statistics.
2在普通病房插管的“敢死队”刘勇军是2月7日晚上到达武汉的。
Liu Yongjun, a "death squadron" intubated in the common ward, arrived in Wuhan on the evening of February 7.
飞机刚落地不久，领队朱庆棠和130名队员就接到“死命令”：8日下午2:30前，协和西院6楼东的隔离病区必须“开门营业”。
Shortly after the plane landed, the leader, Chu Qingtong, and 130 members of the team received death orders. Before 2: 30 pm on the 8th, the quarantine area east of the 6th floor of the Concorde Ward must be "open for business."
武汉协和医院西院起初只是武汉市第三批定点救治医院，2月3日被紧急改建成集中收治重症、危重症患者的定点医院。
The west hospital of Wuhan Concorde Hospital was originally just the third designated treatment hospital in Wuhan city. On February 3, it was transformed into a designated hospital focused on critically ill and critically ill patients.
它和最早的金银潭、中南医院、肺科医院以及后来的同济医院中法新城院区、光谷院区等7家医院，共同筑起了救治新冠肺炎的最后一道防线。
It and the earliest gold and silver pool, Zhongnan hospital, lung hospital and later Tongji hospital in France Xincheng district, Guanggu courtyard district and other hospitals, together built the last line of defense for the new crown pneumonia.
这10家医院，提供了近八千张床位。
These 10 hospitals provide nearly 8,000 beds.
疫情开始后，定点医院竭尽全力扩张ICU床位。
After the outbreak began, designated hospitals made every effort to expand ICU beds.
金银潭医院的ICU病房从南七楼一个增加到了5个，肺科医院的ICU床位从10张增加到了20张。
The ICU ward at Gold and Silver Pool Hospital was increased from one on the seventh floor to five, and the number of ICU beds at the Pulmonary Hospital was increased from 10 to 20.
ICU集中了一家医院最精尖设备，治疗和护理强度也是普通病房没有的。
The ICU brings together the most sophisticated equipment in a hospital, and the intensity of treatment and care is not available in the general ward.
武汉一家重症定点医院的ICU，床护比达到了1∶6，20张床配了120名护士。
In Wuhan, an ICU in an intensive care unit has a bed-to-bed ratio of 1: 6, with 120 nurses in 20 beds.
此前防控不力导致的病患“堰塞湖”被疏通后，每日新增确诊人数远超新建病房的速度。
The number of newly diagnosed patients per day greatly exceeded the rate of newly built wards after the "Yan Sehu" was dredged up due to inadequate control.
协和西院新开了16个病区，普通病床从500张扩容到了800张，病人还是源源不断涌入。
The Concorde West Hospital opened 16 new wards, and the number of ordinary beds increased from 500 to 800, with a steady influx of patients.
不到48小时，6楼东隔离病区的50张床位全部收满。
In less than 48 hours, all 50 beds in the six-storey east quarantined area were filled.
光是这一个病区的救治量，已经超过当时全广州总和。
The amount of treatment in this area alone was greater than the sum of all of Guangzhou at the time.
一些“重中之重”的患者，本该住进2楼ICU，但20张ICU病床早就住满。
Some of the "most important" patients should have been admitted to the second floor ICU, but 20 ICU beds were already occupied.
协和西院八百多名患者中至少有10%属于危重症，急需在ICU插管。
At least 10% of the more than 800 patients in the Concorde Ward hospital are critically ill and in urgent need of ICU intubation.
2月13日，国家卫健委主任马晓伟专门来到协和西院，和专家们讨论有什么办法可以降低病死率。
On February 13, Ma Xiaowei, director of the National Fitness and Wellness Commission, came to the Concorde West Hospital to discuss with experts what could be done to reduce the fatality rate.
“在普通病房开展有创插管，只有这个办法。
"This is the only way to do invasive intubation in a general ward.
”张挪富回答。
"said Zhang Nov-fu.
ICU的负压病房能保证空气“只进不出”——新鲜的空气可以进入病房，但病房里的空气却跑不出来，确保患者呼出的病毒不会对外界造成污染，同时病房设有专门的气体处理设施，用以处理患者呼出的含有病毒的气体。
The ICU's negative-pressure ward guarantees "no air at all" - fresh air can enter the ward, but the air in the ward does not escape, ensuring that the patient's exhaled virus does not contaminate the outside world, and a dedicated gas treatment facility is available to handle the patient's exhalation of virus-containing gases.
但普通病房没有这种条件，泡在高浓度病毒空气中的时间越长，感染风险越高。
But the general ward does not have this condition, soaks up in the high concentration virus air the longer, the infection risk is higher.
以往，麻醉师们从未有过这样的经历。
In the past, anesthesiologists have never had such an experience.
协和医院麻醉科医师凌楚眠和十多名同事组成了“插管小分队”，负责16个病区的隔离病房插管。
Ling Chu-mian, an anesthesiologist at Concorde Hospital, and more than a dozen colleagues have formed "intubation squads," which are responsible for isolating wards in 16 wards.
有人说，“插管小分队”之说还不够悲壮，应该叫“敢死队”——插管的那一刻，病人的呼吸道会喷涌出传播力极强的气溶胶。
Some people say that the "intubation team" is not strong enough, should be called the "death squads" - the moment the intubation, the patient's respiratory tract will spew out a very powerful aerosol.
每个“插管小分队”由两位麻醉师搭班，一人戴着头罩负责插管，一人负责用药和辅助。
Each "intubation team" is manned by two anaesthetists, one wearing a hood to perform intubation and one to administer medication and assistance.
进行高危操作的标配行头除了防护服、隔离衣和护目镜，还有正压防护头套。
Standard outfits for high-risk operations include protective clothing, protective clothing and goggles, plus a positive pressure hood.
“正压”意味着头套内的压力大于头套外，外面的空气进入不了头套内。
"Positive pressure" means that the pressure inside the hood is greater than that inside the hood and that the outside air cannot enter the hood.
此外，头套还带有新风过滤系统。
In addition, the hood is equipped with a new air filtration system.
在2楼的ICU病区，最初5个正压式头套是张挪富想尽一切办法从广州寄来的。
In the ICU area on the second floor, the first five positive-pressure headsets were sent by Nov from Guangzhou by all means.
3缺氧气、缺设备战斗力满格的医护队伍到了武汉，起初连八成功力都发挥不出。
3 lack of oxygen, lack of equipment full of fighting capacity of the medical team to Wuhan, at first even 80% of the capacity can not play out.
“平时在医院里看到的所有环节，在这里都要分为两步，人力翻倍。
"Normally in the hospital to see all the links, here have to be divided into two steps, double the manpower.
”中山一院东院副院长陈振光说。
"said Chen Zhenguang, vice-president of a courtyard.
在这里，大到医嘱执行，小到呼吸机上需要更换一个小钢圈，所有的声音都汇在对讲机，一如作战室。
Here, from the doctor's orders to the need to replace a small ring on the ventilator, all the sounds are converged on the walkie-talkie, as in a war room.
传染病房内的所有纸张都可能携带病毒，医生把患者的状况和治疗意见先用纸写下来，通过专用对讲机和手机发送给清洁区医生，后者经过审核处理后，再把治疗方案发送到污染区，由医生执行。
All papers in an infectious disease room can carry the virus. Doctors write down the patient's condition and treatment advice on paper and send it to the cleaners via a dedicated walkie-talkie and mobile phone, which then sends the treatment plan to the contaminated area for implementation by a doctor.
危重症病人面临的首要问题是呼吸衰竭，给危重症患者供氧，保证病人体内的氧饱和度达到一定数值，减轻肺部的负担，帮助病人熬过最艰难的时刻，是重症危重症救治的基本路径。
Respiratory failure, supplying oxygen to critically ill patients, ensuring oxygen saturation in patients, reducing the burden on the lungs and helping patients survive the most difficult times are the primary routes to critical care.
不过，氧气供应在武汉一度成为大问题。
However, oxygen supply once became a big problem in Wuhan.
呼吸机需要氧气驱动，氧气不够，医院就不能投入更多的呼吸机救治危重病人。
The ventilator needs oxygen to drive, oxygen is not enough, the hospital can not invest more breathing machine to treat critically ill people.
以高流量吸氧为例，吸氧浓度需要达到每分钟50升，这是平时的10倍。
In the case of high-flow oxygen uptake, oxygen concentration needs to reach 50 litres per minute, which is 10 times higher than usual.
每当病房里有4个人同时吸氧，刘勇军就明显感到氧气压力跟不上呼吸机的要求。
Whenever four people in the ward were taking in oxygen, Liu Yung-jun clearly felt that the oxygen pressure could not keep up with the respirator.
武汉大学人民医院东院就曾为此困扰。
Wuhan University People's Hospital has been troubled by this.
病房内2名近80岁的重症患者病情较重，但当时供氧不足，无法通高流量吸氧或上无创呼吸机，最后抢救无效去世。
Two patients in the ward, nearly 80 years of age, were seriously ill, but the oxygen supply was insufficient to allow high-flow oxygen absorption or non-invasive ventilator, and finally died.
武汉市第三医院光谷院区则从武钢临时调了200个氧气钢瓶，医护人员穿着防护服一个个把这些钢瓶搬上楼，这种简单粗暴的方法救活了不少人。
The Guanggu courtyard of Wuhan Third Hospital temporarily transferred 200 oxygen cylinders from WISCO. Medical staff carried them upstairs in protective clothing, which saved many lives.
为了保障医用氧气的供应，武汉主要医用氧供应商开始不停工生产。
In order to ensure the supply of oxygen for medical use, Wuhan main medical oxygen suppliers began not to stop production.
一名供应商称，现在的生产量是之前的4到5倍，但还是不够用。
One supplier says production is now four to five times higher than before, but it's still not enough.
据他估计，仅氧气钢瓶，武汉的缺口就有四五千个。
According to his estimate, the oxygen cylinders alone, Wuhan has a gap of four or five thousand.
氧疗救治一般可分为四种方法：经鼻高流量供氧，无创呼吸机供氧和有创插管，对于濒临死亡的病人，可以采用人工肺（ECMO）抢救，根据患者实际情况、循序渐进地处理。
Oxygen therapy can generally be divided into four methods: oxygen supply through nasal high flow, non-invasive ventilator oxygen supply and invasive intubation, for dying patients, can use artificial lung (ECMO) rescue, according to the patient's actual situation, step by step.
ECMO可以辅助呼吸与血液循环，因此也被称为生命支持技术，并被视作重症监护病房里的“终极武器”。
ECMO, which aids breathing and blood circulation, is also known as life support technology and is considered the ultimate weapon in intensive care wards.
不过，目前国内仅有约400台ECMO，搭配使用的一次性耗材原材料供给有限。
However, at present, there are only about 400 ECMO, the use of disposable raw materials supply limited.
对多数医院来说，ECMO是亏本买卖。
For most hospitals, ECMO is a loss-making business.
以广东省为例，ECMO开机费用大约5万元，使用时每小时收费130元，一周下来收费近10万。
Take Guangdong Province, for example, ECMO start-up costs about 50,000 yuan, the use of hourly charges 130 yuan, a week down nearly 100,000.
此外，其成本也相对高昂——使用ECMO的病人需要多个医护人员密切监测，医院需要支出一笔不菲的人工费，一台ECMO价格是一百多万，折旧费也颇高。
Moreover, the costs are relatively high - patients who use ECMO require close monitoring by multiple health-care providers, hospitals incur significant labor costs, an ECMO price of more than one million, and a high depreciation charge.
目前，根据湖北省提出的需求，中央指导组物资保障组在全球紧急寻找货源，初步落实五十余台ECMO，陆续运抵武汉，已经分配给了同济医院、协和医院等重症定点医院。
At present, in response to demands from Hubei Province, the Central Steering Group's Material Support Group has made an urgent search for supplies around the world, and initially implemented more than 50 ECMO's, which have arrived in Wuhan and have been distributed to hospitals in Tongji and Concorde.
4每个病人都要个性化治疗5天不起床，对武汉大学人民医院呼吸内科医生余昌平是从没有过的事。
Each patient should be treated individually for 5 days without getting out of bed. Yu Changping, a respiratory physician at Wuhan University People's Hospital, has never done anything.
胸闷憋气、呼吸越来越急促的那天，他第一次在重症病房开始思考：我会不会死？余昌平是医院新冠肺炎防治专家组成员，从12月底就开始和病人打交道，对病情自有判断——没有特效药，也难有百分百管用的治疗手段，自己必须“熬”过最危险的两周。
On the day his chest was stifling and he was breathing more rapidly, he began to think for the first time in the intensive care unit: Will I die? Yu Changping, a member of the Hospital's New Crown Pneumonia Team, had been dealing with patients since the end of December and had his own judgment on the condition - no specific drugs, no 100% cures, and had to "endure" the most dangerous two weeks.
重症病房从根本上说是在避免患者缺氧而死，为他们争取时间，让防御系统能够恢复，进而清除病毒。
The intensive care unit is basically to avoid the patient's death from lack of oxygen, for them to buy time, so that the defense system can be restored, and then remove the virus.
像很多呼吸科医生一样，余昌平拒绝了有创插管。
Like many respiratory doctors, Yu rejected invasive intubation.
插管后，上呼吸道“门户大开”，原有的屏障过滤功能消失，可能面临细菌、真菌感染，意识丧失会让自己失去对病情的决策权，面临更多的风险。
Intubation, the upper respiratory "door open", the original screen filter function disappeared, may face bacteria, fungal infections, loss of consciousness will lose their decision-making power over the disease, more risk.
有创插管在医生中面临着很大的争议。
Invasive intubation is a controversial issue among doctors.
2月13日，马晓伟到同济医院中法新城院区调研时，也发现了这个问题。
On February 13, Ma Xiaowei visited Tongji Hospital in the French new city district to study, also found this problem.
这家医院当时的重症患者病死率高达5%，有患者在转入ICU前无创或高流量通气时间过长，没有及时插管；各医疗队对插管的最佳时机，还没有完全形成一致意见。
The hospital had an acute case fatality rate of 5%, patients with noninvasive or high-throughput ventilation in the ICU for too long and failed to intubate in a timely manner, and medical teams had not fully agreed on the best time to intubate.
按照诊疗方案，无论是高流量吸氧还是无创通气，如果1-2小时内病情没有明显改善，就应该插管。
According to the diagnosis and treatment plan, whether high-volume oxygen absorption or non-invasive ventilation, if no significant improvement in 1-2 hours, should be intubated.
想到自己体质好、心态乐观，余昌平决定赌一把：继续用高流量吸氧。
Thinking of his good constitution, optimistic mood, Yu Changping decided to gamble: continue to use high-flow oxygen.
勉强坚持了下来，三周后的2月13日下午，余昌平撤下了氧气。
Reluctantly persevered, and three weeks later, on the afternoon of February 13, Yu Changping withdrew his oxygen.
免疫系统和病毒抗争的过程中，会产生炎症因子。
The immune system and the virus fight the process, can produce inflammatory factors.
炎症在不同人的身上轻重程度不同，在有的情况下就会形成“炎症风暴”——如同瀑布，一开始水流很小，等到它演变成瀑布，就只能通过血液透析、血浆置换等手段把炎症因子从体内透析出来。
Inflammation can vary in severity from person to person, and in some cases can form an "inflammatory storm" - like a waterfall that initially flows very little and then dialyses inflammatory factors out of the body through hemodialysis, plasma replacement, and so on.
有些人，最终扛不过这一关。
Some people don't make it through this.
年轻人也未必都能“死里逃生”。
Young people do not always escape from death.
目前，三十多岁、四十多岁死亡的患者数量并不少，他们没有基础疾病，也会出现全身器官衰竭。
At present, the number of people who die in their thirties and forties is not small. They do not have basic diseases, and they suffer from systemic organ failure.
2月7日，武汉市中心医院眼科医生李文亮去世时，年仅34岁；两周后先后去世的武汉医生彭银华和夏思思，也都只有29岁。
Wuhan doctors Peng Yinhua and Xia Xiaxi, both of whom died two weeks later, were only 29 years old when Li Wenliang, an ophthalmologist at Wuhan Central Hospital, died on February 7.
重症的“病情突然恶化”，除了治疗不及时，还可能是因为治疗不恰当，包括激素造成的继发感染致死。
Severe "sudden deterioration," in addition to untimely treatment, may also be due to inappropriate treatment, including hormone-induced secondary infection to death.
香港大学李嘉诚医学院生物医学学院教授金冬雁说，使用激素后看起来立竿见影、炎症减少，细胞因子风暴受到抑制，可治标不治本，病毒还会飙上来。
Professor Jin Dongyan, Professor of Biomedical Sciences, Li Ka-shing Medical School, University of Hong Kong, said that hormonal use appeared to produce immediate results, reduce inflammation, suppress cytokine storms, treat symptoms rather than cure symptoms, and cause viral outbreaks.
对医生来说，即便看似是相同的疾病、相同的年龄，但每个患者的情况都是不一样的，个体化治疗很重要。
For doctors, even if it seems to be the same disease, the same age, but the situation of each patient is different, individualized treatment is important.
“来了这么多危重症专家，我们是针对国家要降低死亡率的要求，所以每个病人都要个性化治疗，对他的脏器功能的支撑、免疫功能的支撑，全方位地治疗，才有可能打赢这场仗。
"With so many critically ill specialists here, we are responding to the country's need to reduce mortality, so every patient needs individualized treatment, support for his organ function, support for his immune function, and holistic treatment to make it possible to win this battle.
”北京朝阳医院急诊科副主任唐子人说。
Tang Zi-yan, deputy director of emergency department at Beijing Chaoyang Hospital.
5“捞人”2月中上旬，在金银潭医院ICU病房支援的浙江医生郑霞下了一趟区县医院，对适合进行转运救治的重症患者进行评估，走了8家医院，病房全部饱和。
During the first half of February, Zhejiang doctor Zheng Xia, supported by ICU Ward at Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, went down to the district hospital to assess patients in serious condition who could be treated in transit.
在武钢二医院，一位从天津赶来支援的年轻ICU大夫，几乎求着她留下号码，只为了发一条病人信息。
At Wugang II Hospital, a young ICU doctor who had come from Tianjin to help almost begged her to leave a number just to send a patient message.
他一直在重复，“这个人好年轻，应该还有机会拼一把的”。
He kept repeating, "This man is so young, he ought to have had another chance."
在武汉，ICU病床是最紧缺的。
In Wuhan, ICU beds are the most scarce.
一例重症患者，平均需要等待9.84天才能住进医院。
In one case of severe illness, it took an average of 9.84 days to stay in hospital.
初期轻症患者如果病情恶化，不及时进行吸氧等治疗，就会转为重症。
Early patients with mild illness if the deterioration of the situation, not timely oxygen absorption and other treatment, will become serious.
很多社区病例，一拖再拖等到了终末期才转至ICU，医生往往无力回天。
Many community cases, delayed until the end of the transition to the ICU, doctors are often powerless.
从各家医院“捞人”的不止郑霞一个。
More than Zheng Xia fished people from hospitals.
国家卫健委重症巡查组的专家分成12个组，搭配武汉本地专家，每天分片区巡查各家定点医院的ICU病房，对轻症病人进行评估，筛查出重症病人，将其转至救治重症和危重症的定点医院。
Experts from the National Health Care Commission's Serious Care Inspection Unit were divided into 12 teams, with local experts from Wuhan, to inspect the ICU wards of selected hospitals on a daily basis to assess patients with mild illnesses, screen for serious cases and refer them to designated hospitals for treatment of serious and critical cases.
中央赴湖北指导组专家组成员、北京朝阳医院副院长童朝晖就曾去江汉“方舱医院”“捞人”。
Central to Hubei Steering Group members, Beijing Chaoyang Hospital Vice-President Tong Chaohui has gone to Jiang Han "square cabin hospital" "fishing people.
在从方舱医院提供的名单中，童朝晖最终挑出二十多人——60岁以上、伴有基础疾病且需吸氧，将他们转至重症和危重症定点收治医院集中救治。
From a list provided by Fang Chaohui Hospital, Tong finally singled out more than 20 people - 60 years of age and older, with basic illnesses and oxygen - and referred them to intensive care in critical and critical-care facilities.
截至2月19日，在协和医院和全国11支医疗队的共同救治下，已有145名重症患者相继出院。
As at 19 February, 145 patients in critical condition had been discharged as a result of joint treatment by the Concorde Hospital and 11 medical teams nationwide.
这些患者大多在除夕前后住院，救治二十余天后痊愈。
Most of these patients were hospitalized around New Year's Eve and recovered after more than 20 days of treatment.
2月25日，张挪富主管的ICU病区又有两位危重症患者顺利拔管，目前共有7人拔管脱离呼吸机。
On February 25, two more critically ill patients were successfully pulled out of the ICU ward under Zhang's supervision, and a total of seven people have been pulled out of the ventilator.
医院见证了太多生死，每天都有危重患者陡然离世，治愈出院的患者数字也在持续增长。
Hospitals have seen too much life and death, critical deaths occur every day, and the number of patients being treated and discharged continues to grow.
2月23日，同济医院中法新城院区又有11名重症新冠肺炎患者治愈出院。
On 23 February, 11 more patients with severe pneumonia were discharged from the French-Xincheng compound of Tongji Hospital.
47岁的重症患者陈西念在协和医院住了20天，直至出院都不知道“救命恩人”的长相，他写了3封满满2页纸的感谢信，又把医生、护士的名字写在手掌心，“我的命都是国家给的”。
Chen Xiangnan, 47, who was in Concorde Hospital for 20 days until he was discharged from hospital, wrote three thank-you notes filled with two pages and the names of doctors and nurses in his palm.
2月19日下午3点，在协和医院西院门口，陈西念拎着医院送给他的口罩等生活物资，说自己余生都要做回馈社会的事情。
At 3: 00 p.m. on February 19, in front of the West Hospital of Concorde Hospital, Chen Xiangnan was carrying supplies such as masks that the hospital had given him, saying he would have to give back to society for the rest of his life.
与他同期出院的重症患者，有74岁高龄却乐观坚强的老太太，也有从住院前就一直咳血的44岁中年壮汉。
Among the critically ill patients he was discharged from hospital were a 74-year-old upbeat old lady and a 44-year-old man who had been coughing up blood since he was hospitalized.
现场8辆救护车、4辆出租车，将出院患者送去隔离观察的酒店。
Eight ambulances and four taxis were taken from the scene to the quarantined hotel.
进驻武汉协和西院的那一天，唐子人就意识到，要治愈的不仅是患者的身体，传递温暖和救治同等重要。
The Tang Dynasty realized that it was not only the patient's body that was cured, but also the warmth and treatment that needed to be delivered.
患者被隔离时会很恐惧，医护人员查房时多聊几句，安抚患者情绪，心理状态平稳，身体的免疫功能也会更好。
Patients are frightened when isolated, and doctors and nurses talk to each other during room visits to calm patients' moods, calm their psychological state and improve their immune function.
在6楼东病区，12号房的阿姨11月底刚做完冠状动脉支架手术，学医的亲戚告诉她，新冠肺炎一旦合并其他疾病，病程变化快、恢复差。
At the end of November, Auntie 12 had just finished coronary stent surgery in the east of the 6th floor. Relatives told her that the new crown pneumonia, once combined with other diseases, would change quickly and recover less.
每天查房，她都缠着刘勇军问半个多小时。
Every day, she around Liu Yung Jun asked for more than half an hour.
刘勇军和同事们每天安抚她，全力缓解她的焦虑情绪。
Liu Yung Jun and her colleagues soothed her every day and tried to ease her anxiety.
现在，她的心态平和了些，病情明显好转，撤掉了输氧管，CT也显示出了好转迹象。
Now her mood is calmer, her condition is noticeably better, oxygen tubes have been removed, and CT has shown signs of improvement.
2月25日，国家卫健委专家组成员邱海波在接受央视采访时表示，截至当天，武汉定点收治重症的10家医院已有将近一千张空床，已经达到了“床等人”的状态。
As of the same day, nearly 1,000 empty beds had been allocated to 10 hospitals in Wuhan, which had reached the status of "bed and other people," Qiu Haibo, a member of the National Fitness and Health Commission, told CCTV.
（文中杨芳为化名）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
(In the text Yang Fang for alias) poke the following picture to continue reading the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
抢救重症病人： “敢死队”插管、专家“捞人”。
Rescue severe patients: "Jet death team" intubation, expert "fished up."
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "抢救重症病人： “敢死队”插管、专家“捞人”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Rescuing seriously ill patients: AT & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; expert & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
