武汉可以从非典的经验中学到什么？。
What can Wuhan learn from the experience of SARS?
马晓华。
Ma Xiaohua.
第一财经YiMagazine                      。
First Finance Yi Magazine.
第一财经YiMagazine。
First Finance Yi Magazine.
这里是《第一财经》杂志（前身《第一财经周刊》）读者俱乐部，我们为你发掘精彩的商业价值，也邀请你一起探寻明亮的商业世界。
This is the Reader's Club of First Finance Magazine (formerly the First Finance Weekly), where we discover the great commercial value and invite you to explore the bright business world.
。
.
第一财经记者| 马晓华原文首发于：第一财经旗舰App封城至今，在抗击疫情的紧张战役中，暴风眼中的武汉难免有些手忙脚乱。
First Financial News & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & #
一方面是医疗物资紧缺，口罩、防护服、护目镜的求援信息在网络上蔓延；一方面是医护资源紧缺，一线人员疲惫不堪，再加上病床紧张......于是，疑似患者无法确诊、入院无门的情况开始出现，一家多个成员出现疑似症状的亦不在少数。
On the one hand, there is a shortage of medical supplies, and on the other is the spread of information on the network. On the one hand, medical resources are scarce, frontline staff are exhausted, and hospital beds are tight.
有人责备武汉进退失据，但更多的人在为武汉祈祷的同时，更在出谋划策，为这座英雄的城市加油鼓劲。
Some blame Wuhan, but more people pray for Wuhan at the same time, more in the advice of the heroic city to encourage.
曾经的经验和果敢的应对，可以让在重压之下的这座城市迅速找到应对良策。
The experience and determination to deal with it will allow the city under pressure to find quick solutions.
中国有成功抗击SARS的经验，这些宝贵的财富不应该被忘记。
China has experience in successfully fighting SARS and these valuable assets should not be forgotten.
第一财经记者追访两位亲临SARS一线救治的医疗人员时，他们共同的观点是：2003年SARS肆虐北京时，当时无论是医疗机构的硬件还是社会的辅助条件，都远不如现在，也同样经历了初始的慌乱和收治难。
In a follow-up interview with two first-line SARS medical staff, the first financial correspondent shared the view that when SARS struck Beijing in 2003, neither the hardware nor the social support of the medical establishment was nearly as good as it is today.
致胜的关键点在于，当时北京迅速找到了解决方案，使医疗机构进入有序的诊疗。
The key to winning was that Beijing was quick to find a solution that would put medical facilities in order.
对于当下，结论就是，武汉需要统一协调和管理，政府、卫生行政部门、医疗机构必须有统一的步伐和执行，才能更有力地发挥作用。
For the moment, the conclusion is that Wuhan needs to be unified coordination and management, the government, health administration, medical institutions must have a unified pace and implementation, so as to be able to play a more effective role.
属地化管理“当时SARS来时，中国是真的措手不及，北京又是重灾区，收治难也是突出问题。
Attribution management "When SARS came, China was really caught unprepared, Beijing is a disaster area, treatment is also a prominent problem.
不过这个问题很快就得到了解决。
But the problem was quickly solved.
”北京市德胜社区卫生中心主任韩铮铮对第一财经表示。
Han Shengzheng, director of Beijing Desheng Community Health Center, told First Finance.
2003年，韩铮铮担任北京市西城区SARS定点医院北京德外医院的副院长，现在医院改名为德胜社区卫生中心。
In 2003, Han Zheng became the Vice-President of Beijing Dexian Hospital of the SARS Scheduled Hospital in the Xicheng District of Beijing.
韩铮铮说，当时政府有个指令，要求属地化管理，每个区都设置定点医院，收治本区域患者，且举全区医疗力量和物资，全力支撑定点医院。
Han says the government issued a directive calling for "land management," with hospitals in each district to treat patients in the region, as well as medical forces and supplies to fully support designated hospitals.
这个方案很快就解决了本区域患者入院难的问题。
The programme quickly resolved the problem of hospitalization of patients in the region.
属地化管理，每个区设置定点医院是非典留下的经验。
Localized management, each district to set up a designated hospital is the SARS left behind experience.
“这种管理方法，不仅便于患者就近医治，还可以调配医疗力量物资。
"This kind of management is not only convenient for patients to get medical treatment nearby, but also can deploy medical strength materials.
当时我们没有外来医疗队，都是靠全区的医疗力量。
At the time we had no outside medical teams, but relied on the medical strength of the district.
10个人一组，在一线工作2周，然后再集结第二梯队，把第一梯队替换下来。
Team 10, work on the front line for two weeks, then assemble the second echelon and replace the first echelon.
第一梯队集中中到昌平区的一个酒店隔离2周，然后再替换。
The first echelon was concentrated in a hotel in Changping district for two weeks before being replaced.
”韩铮铮说，医疗人员不能持续在一线，否则体力和免疫力都会下降，更容易出现医护感染。
Han says health-care workers cannot stay on the front line, or both physical strength and immunity will decline, making it easier for health-care infections to emerge.
这种医护人员的接力赛，在当时发挥了很重要的作用。
This kind of relay race of medical personnel played a very important role at that time.
也正是因为合理使用医护力量，也保障了这支队伍的作战实力。
It is also because of the rational use of medical care, but also to ensure the operational strength of the team.
此外，韩铮铮表示，医疗物资的使用，当时也是有序进行。
Moreover, says Mr Han, the use of medical supplies was also orderly at the time.
“当时没有这样的网络平台，只能电话或者邮件。
"There was no such network platform, just by phone or mail.
我们每天打电话给西城区卫生局，告诉他们我们需要多少医疗物资，卫生局会派专车送来。
We call the Westlife Health Bureau every day to let them know how much medical supplies we need.
”韩铮铮表示，医疗物资的管理也是需要有计划性的，分配也得讲究科学，特别是分箱、开箱等，不是把一堆东西混装在一起，送到一个医院，医院拿走自己该需要的，剩下的再拿回来。
Mr Han says the management of medical supplies also needs to be planned and allocated scientifically, especially in the form of crates, uncrates, etc., rather than mixing a pile of things and sending them to a hospital, where they take what they need and bring back the rest.
因为只要有开箱，就有污染，所以这些物资就不会再有一个医疗机构接受。
Because as long as there are open boxes, there is pollution, so these goods will no longer be accepted by a medical institution.
这种属地化管理，不仅有序解决了人力和物力的问题，更重要的是做好了本区公众的医学管理。
This kind of attribute management not only solves the problem of manpower and material resources in an orderly way, but also does a good job in the medical management of the public in this area.
“我们有150个医疗人员，其中100个在诊疗一线，剩下50个医护人员负责全社区的医学观察，指导社区居家群众如何消毒、如何观察发烧等症状，同时做流行病学调查。
"We have 150 health-care workers, 100 of whom are in the frontline, and the remaining 50 are conducting community-wide medical observations, advising communities on how to disinfect their homes, observe fever, and do epidemiological surveys.
”韩铮铮表示。
'says Mr Han.
这种医护人员的亲临指导，不仅带来了专业的防控知识，更重要的是安抚了恐慌的人心。
This kind of personal guidance of medical personnel, not only brought professional knowledge of prevention and control, but also more important to calm the panic of the people.
行之有效的属地化管理，在SARS之后，被写入了2004年8月修订的《传染病防治法》。
Effective ownership management was incorporated into the Communicable Disease Prevention Act, as amended in August 2004, after SARS.
有效隔离+分类管理有序的防控，更离不开分类管理。
The effective isolation + the classified management orderly control, cannot leave the classified management more.
“诊断清楚的患者及时入院，集中救治。
"Diagnosed patients timely hospital, centralized treatment.
需要医学观察的人，集中在酒店。
People who need medical observation are concentrated in hotels.
”韩铮铮表示。
'says Mr Han.
当时，韩铮铮说，医院征用了两个酒店作为定点医学观察点，一个是当时的十月大厦，另一个是昌平的酒店。
At the time, Mr. Han said the hospital requisitioned two hotels as designated medical sites, one in October and the other in Changping.
这种分类管理，对于控制疫情起到了很重要的作用，不仅能够及时发现发病患者，也不需要动用太多的医疗资源。
This kind of taxonomic management plays a very important role in controlling the epidemic. It can not only detect the patients in time, but also need not use too many medical resources.
正是在这样的统一管理之下，北京很快控制了SARS。
It was under such a unified administration that Beijing quickly brought SARS under control.
事实上，武汉早在1月24日，也提出分级分类的工作安排。
In fact, Wuhan as early as January 24, also put forward the classification of the working arrangements.
当天武汉市召开落实分级分类筛查工作视频调度会，提出全面进入“战时”状态，落实分级分类就医制度，确保发热病人得到及时救治。
On the same day, Wuhan held a video regulating meeting to implement the classification screening work, put forward a "wartime" state, implement the classification of medical treatment system, to ensure that febrile patients receive timely treatment.
武汉的做法是由各社区负责，全面排查所在辖区发热病人，并送至社区医疗卫生服务中心对病情进行筛选、分类，避免患者无序流动，减少医院内交叉感染。
Wuhan practice is the responsibility of the community, a comprehensive screening of fever patients in their jurisdiction, and sent to the community health services to screen, classify, avoid the disorder flow of patients, reduce cross-infection in hospitals.
同时，各区全面落实属地负责制，主要领导担任第一责任人，立即确定隔离观察地点和运送病人专门车辆，落实各社区医疗卫生服务中心及医疗力量，发现疑似病人，及时转送发热门诊就诊，确诊后立即送指定医疗点治疗；加强各区间医疗资源共享互通，确保能够无条件收治所有疑似患者。
At the same time, the districts have fully implemented the system of territorial responsibility, with the main leaders acting as the first responders, promptly identifying isolated observation sites and transporting special patient vehicles, implementing community health service centres and medical forces, detecting suspected patients, promptly referring fever clinics to designated medical points for treatment, and strengthening the sharing of medical resources between districts to ensure unconditional treatment of all suspected patients.
各街道、各社区联防联控、群防群控、群防群治，对辖区内的发热病人进行全覆盖排查登记，全程跟踪；及时取消社区聚集活动，劝导群众不搞家庭聚会、减少出门。
The streets and communities are jointly controlled, flocked and treated in groups, and all febrile patients in the district are fully registered and followed up; community gatherings are cancelled in a timely manner and people are advised not to have family gatherings or to leave their homes.
要求武汉市卫健委尽快选派医生到各区驻地指导，为社区提供必要支持。
Wuhan health committee was requested to send doctors to the district resident guidance as soon as possible to provide necessary support to the community.
但事后的现实表明，这样一个分级分类的就医制度，并没有实现理想的目标。
But the reality after the fact shows that such a classified medical treatment system, did not achieve the desired goals.
有不少患者被阻隔在社区，无法得到及时治疗。
Many patients are isolated in the community and cannot be treated in a timely manner.
有武汉医生在社交媒体上紧急呼吁：疑似病例得不到确诊，就无法入院治疗，大量疑似患者游离于医院之外，传染源就无法得到有效控制。
Wuhan doctors on social media emergency appeal: suspected cases are not confirmed, can not be hospitalized, a large number of suspected patients outside the hospital, the source of infection can not be effectively controlled.
只有把所有疑似病人隔离起来，才能最有效地控制传染源，切断传播途径。
Only by isolating all suspected patients can the source of infection be controlled most effectively and transmission routes be cut off.
同时，只有把疑似病人都隔离起来，医院的其他科室才能正常运作。
At the same time, only by isolating suspected patients can other sections of the hospital function properly.
曾经参与SARS救治的原第二军医大学长征医院业务副院长缪晓辉认为，要有强有力的指挥和协调，才能强有力地控制现场秩序。
Mui Xiaohui, former Vice-Dean of the Long March Hospital of the Second Military Medical University, who was involved in SARS treatment, believes that strong command and coordination are required to maintain strong control over order on the ground.
情况确实在改变。
The situation is indeed changing.
2月2日，武汉市新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎防控指挥部要求，2月2日12点前，各城区要完成对确诊患者集中收治、疑似患者集中隔离，无法排除的发热患者和确诊患者的密切接触者集中隔离观察，新增人员“日清月结”。
February 2, Wuhan City, the new coronavirus infection of the Pneumonia Command requirements, February 2, 12, to complete the diagnosis of patients concentrated treatment, suspected patients in concentrated isolation, can not exclude febrile patients and confirmed patients in close contact with closely observed, the new personnel.
根据防控指挥部的要求，对“四类人员”分类集中收治和隔离。
According to the requirements of the Control and Prevention Command, "four categories of personnel" centralized treatment and isolation.
确诊的患者须实行集中收治。
Patients diagnosed must be admitted centrally.
重症患者须送定点医院入院治疗，轻症患者无法全部进入定点医院治疗的，须征用其他医院或酒店作为临时治疗区，集中收治。
If patients with serious diseases cannot all be admitted to designated hospitals for treatment, other hospitals or hotels should be requisitioned as temporary treatment areas for centralized treatment.
指挥部要求，“四类人员”的收治和隔离场所必须分开，并安排好集中收治和隔离点的医护人员和后勤保障。
The command demanded that reception and quarantine facilities for the "four categories of personnel" be separated and that medical staff and logistics at centralized reception and isolation points be arranged.
集中收治、集中隔离、集中隔离观察，武汉将摆脱之前的混乱和慌张，进入有序的轨道。
Centralized treatment, centralized isolation, centralized observation, Wuhan will get rid of the previous confusion and panic, into an orderly track.
高效利用资源一旦管理统一，医疗资源得到有效地利用，困扰武汉的物资短缺和医疗力量短缺问题，也将迎刃而解。
Once the efficient utilization of resources is unified and medical resources are used effectively, the shortage of materials and medical forces that afflict Wuhan will be solved.
比如，从医护人员的数量来看。
Consider, for example, the number of health-care workers.
缪晓辉对第一财经解释说，这里有一个很重要的医护患者比的概念，不同类型的患者，有不同的医护比。
'There is an important concept of patient-to-patient ratio, different types of patients, different ratios of care, 'Mr. Mui explained to First Finance.
“如果是治疗中的病人，医务人员加后勤人员与病人的比例是1.5~2:1；如果是在医院留观的病人，所需的医护减半；如果是集中在酒店做医学观察，负责医学观察的人员与被观察人员的比例是1:15~20。
"In the case of a patient in treatment, the ratio of medical staff to patients is 1.5-2: 1; in the case of a patient staying in hospital, the required medical care is halved; in the case of a medical observation concentrated in a hotel, the ratio of staff in charge of medical observation to those observed is 1: 15-20.
而且，负责医学观察的人员中，医护人员占1/50就行了。
Moreover, one-half of the staff in charge of medical observation are medical personnel.
”截至2020年2月1日24时，武汉市累计报告新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎4109例。
As of 2400 hours February 1, 2020, 4,109 cases of pneumonia with a new coronavirus infection have been reported in Wuhan.
如果按照上述比例顶格（2：1）计算，且4109个患者全部属于第一类的话，可能需要8218名医护人员加后勤人员。
If the above ratio (2: 1) is used and 4,109 patients are all in the first category, 8,218 medical and support staff may be required.
所以，目前全国各地奔赴武汉的援助医疗队的力量，已经大大缓解了武汉医务人员的压力。
Therefore, at present, all over the country to Wuhan to help the strength of medical teams, has greatly eased the pressure on Wuhan medical staff.
1月24日，第一批从上海和广东派出的医疗队赶赴武汉。
On January 24, the first medical teams from Shanghai and Guangdong arrived in Wuhan.
1月28日在国家卫健委新闻发布会上，国家卫生健康委医政医管局副局长焦雅辉说，截止1月28日晚，将会有近6000名来自全国各地的医疗队支援湖北武汉疫情防治。
As of the evening of January 28, nearly 6,000 medical teams from all over the country will be assisting in the prevention and treatment of the Wuhan epidemic in Hubei Province, said Jiao Yahui, deputy director of the Hospital Authority of the National Health and Wellness Commission.
2月2日，又有1400名军医飞往武汉。
On February 2, another 1,400 military doctors flew to Wuhan.
那么，床位数有压力吗？据武汉市政府公布的信息，武汉已在全市设置了61家发热门诊，全面实行24小时接诊。
So is the number of beds under pressure Wuhan has set up 61 fever clinics across the city, offering 24-hour medical consultations, according to a report released by Wuhan city government.
在金银潭医院、肺科医院两家医院基础上，已分三批征用了24家综合医院，临时改造成为收治发热病人的专门医院。
On the basis of two hospitals, the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital and the Pulmonary Hospital, 24 general hospitals have been requisitioned in three batches and temporarily converted into specialized hospitals for treating febrile patients.
武汉市政府方面预计，2月5日前，全市将提供13000余张床位备用。
Wuhan city government said it expects to provide more than 13,000 beds by February 5.
2月2日，武汉公布了全市23家定点医院的床位使用情况：已开放6754个床位，实际使用6808个床位。
On February 2, Wuhan announced the use of beds in 23 designated hospitals throughout the city: 6,754 beds have been opened and 6,808 beds are actually in use.
2月2日上午，武汉火神山医院举行交付仪式。
February 2 morning, Wuhan Huoshen Mountain Hospital held a delivery ceremony.
据报道，武汉火神山医院总建筑面积3.39万平方米，参照2003年非典期间北京小汤山医院所建，可容纳1000张病床，将于3日正式收治新型冠状病毒感染的患者。
Wuhan Huoshen Mountain Hospital, with a total floor area of 33,900 square meters, will officially admit patients infected with the coronavirus on the 3rd, according to reports that the 1,000-bed facility built by the Beijing Xiaotangshan Hospital during SARS in 2003.
火神山医院可容纳1000张病床。
Mount Fukuyama Hospital has a capacity of 1,000 beds.
与此同时，第一财经统计发现，其中9家定点医院（市第五医院、市第三医院、协和医院、省人民医院等），共有12476张床位。
At the same time, the First Financial Statistics found that nine of the designated hospitals (City Hospital No. 5, City Hospital No. 3, Concorde Hospital, Provincial People's Hospital, etc.) had 12,476 beds.
“武汉医疗资源是充足的，只不过是怎么用的问题，千张床位的三甲医院很多。
"Wuhan medical resources are sufficient, just how to use the problem, the thousand-bed triple A hospital is a lot.
现在大量病人涌入，等得到新建的医院吗？（要）把现有医院腾出来啊！”缪晓辉说。
Is there a huge influx of patients waiting for a new hospital? [to] vacate the existing one, "says Muse.
对比已经确诊的病例数量，武汉医护、床位等医疗资源压力已经有很大程度缓解。
Compared with the number of confirmed cases, the pressure on medical resources such as medical care and beds in Wuhan has been relieved to a great extent.
但现在的问题是对留观人数还无法确定，未来还有多少人被感染也较难预测，加上之前有病无法收治入院，只能在家里隔离等待的患者数量尚不掌握，未来还面临的挑战依然很大。
However, the question remains as to the number of visitors, the number of future infections is difficult to predict, the number of patients previously hospitalized, the number of patients who can only be kept in isolation at home, and the challenges ahead remain considerable.
根据武汉市政府所发布的消息，从1月29日开始不再有留观人数的公布，但根据第一财经推算，从其已公布占用的6808个床位以及总确诊人数4109人看，留观人数亦在2000人以上。
According to the Wuhan city government, the number of visitors will no longer be announced from Jan. 29, but according to calculations by First Finance, the number of visitors is more than 2,000, based on the number of 6,808 beds and 4,109 confirmed cases.
从1月28日官方统计数字看，武汉市的日门诊量在12263人，未来还有多少人被感染，目前无法预测，根据高福等人的模型计算的2.2的传染指数，目前4109个确诊患者，有可能会带来9039例感染。
According to official statistics from Jan. 28, Wuhan city has 12,263 outpatient consultations per day, and the number of people infected in the future cannot be predicted. According to the infection index of 2.2 calculated by Gao Fu et al. 's model, 4,109 confirmed patients now have the potential to cause 9,039 infections.
不过，随着武汉市的重新部署，比如征用酒店等措施的推进，所有病人涌向医院的景象也将改善。
However, with the redeployment of Wuhan, such as the requisitioning of hotels, the flow of all patients to hospitals will improve.
同时，简化、缩短筛查流程，可以避免疑似病例多次往返医院造成更多交叉感染，通过简化确诊分流程序，可以避免轻症患者、居家隔离观察人员拖延成重症。
At the same time, simplifying and shortening the screening process can avoid more cross-infections caused by multiple trips to hospitals by suspected cases. By simplifying the procedures for identifying diversions, patients with mild illnesses and home-based quarantine observers can be prevented from becoming seriously ill.
当统筹调配医疗资源开始变得井然有序，武汉也将会逐渐走上正轨。
When co-ordinated deployment of medical resources began to become orderly, Wuhan will be gradually on track.
本文文字版权归第一财经所有，未经授权许可不得转载或翻译。
The copyright of this article belongs to the first financial company and cannot be reproduced or translated without permission.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉可以从非典的经验中学到什么？。
What can Wuhan learn from the experience of SARS?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "第一财经YiMagazine";。
var nickname = & quot; First Finance Yi Magazine & quot;;;
var msg_title = "武汉可以从非典的经验中学到什么？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; What did Wuhan learn from its SARS experience?;
var msg_desc = "中国有成功抗击SARS的经验，这些宝贵的财富不应该被忘记。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; China has had successful experience with SARS, and these valuable assets should not be forgotten.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="第一财经YiMagazine";。
var title = & quot; First Finance Yi Magazine & quot;;;
