特别报道 | 疫情之下，在线教育能否“逆行而上”？。
Can online education be "retrograde" with the epidemic?
王一越、邓舒夏等。
Wang Yue, Deng Shuxia etc.
第一财经YiMagazine                      。
First Finance Yi Magazine.
第一财经YiMagazine。
First Finance Yi Magazine.
这里是《第一财经》杂志（前身《第一财经周刊》）读者俱乐部，我们为你发掘精彩的商业价值，也邀请你一起探寻明亮的商业世界。
This is the Reader's Club of First Finance Magazine (formerly the First Finance Weekly), where we discover the great commercial value and invite you to explore the bright business world.
。
.
一场疫情改变了教培行业的局面，这既是在线教育相关公司承担社会责任的时期，也是证明其价值的机会。
An epidemic has transformed the teaching and training industry, both as a period of social responsibility for companies involved in online education and as an opportunity to prove its worth.
记者 | 王一越、邓舒夏、叶雨晨、吴洋洋实习记者|陶紫东、袁颖编辑 | 倪 妮制图 | 程 星寒暑假历来是教培机构的招生旺季，眼下的疫情却让局面发生了翻天覆地的变化。
Ren Yue Wang, Deng Shuxia, Ye Yuchen, and Wu Yueyang have all been at the forefront of educational and training institutions since last summer and winter. Today's epidemic has dramatically changed the situation.
1月27日，教育部下发通知，要求2020春季学期延期开学，学生在家不外出、不聚会、不举办和参加集中性活动，各培训机构取消各类线下课程。
On 27 January, the Ministry of Education issued a circular to postpone the start of the 2020 spring term, requiring students to stay at home, not to meet, not to organize and participate in intensive activities, and to cancel various off-line courses at training institutions.
而在7天前，武汉所有线下培训机构已全面停课。
All Wuhan offline training institutions were closed seven days ago.
“新东方地面课堂全部停课，上百万寒假班的学生面临不能上课的局面，如果全部停课退费，新东方就只能关门大吉，七八万老员工的生计，立刻就成了问题。
"New Oriental Ground Classrooms are closed and millions of students in winter vacation classes face being unable to attend classes. If all tuition is suspended, New Oriental will have to close down and the livelihoods of 780,000 old employees will be in immediate question.
”新东方创始人俞敏洪曾在个人公众号中“诉苦”。
Yu Minhong, founder of New Oriental, once "complained" in his personal public address.
不过1月29日，教育部就提出“停课不停学”的号召，鼓励学生利用各类互联网平台在线学习。
But on Jan. 29, the education ministry called for "non-stop learning," encouraging students to use various Internet platforms to learn online.
遭遇重创的传统线下培训机构，纷纷紧急将业务向线上转移。
The traditional offline training institutions, which have been hit hard, have rushed their business online.
而寒假中后期到正式返校这一段时间，更是成为各大在线教育平台发挥作用的关键阶段。
The middle and late winter vacation to the formal return to school this period is the major online education platform to play a key stage.
和其他很多可能受疫情严重拖累的行业不同的是，眼下的这场灾难，反而给在线教育提供了凸显其价值的新机会。
Unlike many other industries likely to be severely affected by the epidemic, the current disaster offers new opportunities to highlight the value of online education.
然而与此同时，和所有行业一样，这一领域的相关公司也需经受住这场紧急大考。
At the same time, however, companies in this sector, as in all industries, will have to weather the emergency test.
疫情期间，多个在线教育、线上直播平台都打出了“停课不停学”的口号并提供教学内容。
During the epidemic, a number of online education, online live broadcast platform have played the slogan of "non-stop learning" and provide teaching content.
超级直播课1月22日，作为这次疫情的中心区，武汉市教育局要求中小学校暂停寒假期间各类教学活动和学生社会实践活动。
As the epicentre of the epidemic, Wuhan Education Bureau on January 22 asked schools to suspend all kinds of teaching activities and students' social activities during the winter vacation.
有道副总裁刘韧磊和管理层其他成员预感，武汉即将有一波对线上课程的极大需求。
Liu and other members of management had a hunch that Wuhan was on the verge of a huge demand for online courses.
1月23日晚10点，武汉离汉通道关闭，城市公交系统暂停运营，刘韧磊等人当天午夜就迅速组建了50人的核心团队，集中产品、技术、运营、客服和教研组负责人，讨论应对方案。
At 10 p.m. on January 23, Wuhan Dehan Road closed, the city's public transport system was suspended, Liu and others quickly set up a core team of 50 people at midnight that day to focus on products, technology, operations, customer service and research group leaders to discuss solutions.
经过通宵筹备，1月24日大年三十上午，有道旗下的在线教育平台有道精品课宣布向武汉地区捐赠寒假直播课，两天后，扩大到整个湖北省。
After all-night preparations, on January 24, the morning of the Chinese New Year's Day, the Daoist online education platform announced the donation of winter and summer classes to Wuhan, two days later, it was extended to the whole Hubei Province.
很快，多家在线教育平台也陆续发布了捐赠。
Soon, a number of online education platforms have also released donations.
新东方向全国中小学用户赠送100万份新东方在线的春季班直播课程，学霸君向湖北医护人员子女捐赠1000万元春季直播小班课程，向2万名湖北学生赠送春季直播大班课程。
New Oriental offered 1 million New Oriental Online live programs to primary and secondary school users nationwide, while Rex donated 10 million yuan in spring small-class classes to Hubei medical and nursing staff and 20,000 Hubei students to attend large-scale spring classes.
此外，多家视频平台开辟了集合专区，汇集了多个教育品牌的直播频道，比如快手就和跟谁学、VIPKID等40余家企业合作，在App侧边栏上线“停课不停学”专区。
In addition, a number of video platforms have set up an assembly area, bringing together live channels of several educational brands, such as Fast Hand and with whom to learn, VIPKID and other more than 40 enterprises, on the App side of the line "non-stop learning" zone.
这类捐赠的课程，基本是已经开始招生的寒假或春季班课，内容早已备好，只是将付费变成免费。
Such donated courses, which are essentially winter or spring classes that have already begun to be enrolled, are already in place, with the exception of making payments free of charge.
“但是当大家都推迟开学，整个形势就有些变化。
"But when we all put off school, the whole situation changed a little.
”刘韧磊对《第一财经》YiMagazine说。
'Mr. Liu told First Finance Yi Magazine.
寒假尾声到正式开学前的直播课程，重点已经变成了和学校复课做衔接和配合，一般等开学就会结束。
The focus of the live programme from the end of winter to the start of the school year has shifted to bridging and cooperating with the resumption of classes, which usually ends when the school year begins.
在有道精品课之后上线的免费开学名师直播课，就是根据这一需求，整合出的一套新课程。
In a class after a free start live classes, is based on this need, the integration of a new set of courses.
其大部分课程来自于原有资源库，教研团队再依据校内教学进度的节奏和难度做出微调。
Most of its courses come from the original resource base, and research teams fine-tune the pace and difficulty of the school's progress.
另外，在提前准备好的内容之外，有道精品课也临时编写了一些“番外”课程，比如邀请了中华医学会委员鲍云华讲解的《教你如何正确防范新型冠状病毒》。
In addition to the pre-prepared content, a number of "foreign" courses have been prepared on an ad hoc basis, such as "Teach You How to Prevent the New Coronavirus," by Bao Yunhua, a member of the Chinese Medical Association.
现在打开有道精品课首页会弹出疫情防控课程推荐。
Now open a good lesson home page will pop up the course recommendations for disease prevention and control.
“我们不是去取代公立学校，本身的定位是复习巩固和提高，做课内教育的补充，这样未来学校复课是比较流畅的。
"We are not replacing public schools. Our orientation is to review, consolidate and improve and supplement in-class education, so that future school classes will resume smoothly.
”刘韧磊说。
'said Liu.
有道精品课涵盖编程、数理思维等少儿阶段素质课程，针对K12阶段，则主要做聚焦某一知识点的专题类课程，从2月10日起每天上下午各一节核心课程。
There is a good lesson covering programming, mathematical thinking and other quality courses for young children, K12 stage, mainly focus on a certain knowledge point, from February 10 each morning and afternoon a core curriculum.
另一些在线教育平台，重点则在于进一步和学校“无缝对接”。
Other online education platforms focus on further "seamlessly docking" with schools.
1月25日中午，作业帮上线“春季加油站计划”报名入口，从决策到上线仅花了26小时，整个产品却经过了三次迭代。
Homework helped sign up for the online Spring Gas Station Program at noon on January 25th. It took only 26 hours from decision-making to go live, but the product went through three iterations.
2月2日，作业帮公布了免费直播课程的课表，覆盖K12各个年级的主要学科，从早上8点到下午5点40分，每40分钟一节课，几乎和校内作息没有差别。
On 2 February, HOPE published a curriculum for a free live course, covering the main subjects at all levels of K12, from 8 a.m. to 5.40 p.m. and every 40 minutes, almost the same as school work.
同时，学而思网校和猿辅导选择的也是全天候式的免费校内同步直播课。
At the same time, the school and apes tutoring options are all-weather free simultaneous in-school broadcast classes.
“为了与学校正常进度基本同步，节奏、难度、课时长度等都和校内相符，各科编排的依据是根据教育部大纲，课间还安插眼保健操和室内操。
"In order to keep pace with the normal school schedule, rhythm, difficulty, length of classes, etc., the subjects are arranged according to the syllabus of the Ministry of Education, and eye exercises and indoor exercises are inserted between classes.
”作业帮在给《第一财经》YiMagazine的书面回复中说。
"The assignment said in a written response to First Finance Yi Magazine.
学而思网校将数学、物理等科目分成同步、难、和竞赛三个等级，供不同水平的学生选择。
The school divides mathematics and physics into three levels: synchronous, difficult, and competitive, for students of different levels to choose.
猿辅导则在晚间的大师课中亮出了纪连海、蒙曼等名家师资。
Apes tutoring in the evening in the master class flashed out Jielian Hai, Monman and other famous teachers.
2月1日，学而思网校率先开始试运营，点击App首页置顶的免费课程入口，就可以进入课程表，选择课程直接观看。
On Feb. 1, Xueyi Online School started a trial run by clicking on the free course entrance at the top of the App homepage to get into the curriculum and select a course to view directly.
2月3日，猿辅导和作业帮开课，用户注册后，需要按年级先以0元购买课程，再通过已购课程进入免费课程直播间。
On February 3, ape counseling and help with homework began. After registering, users were required to pay $0 per grade for the course and enter the free course studio through the purchased course.
二者均可领取电子版教学资料，并回看24小时之前的课程内容。
Both have access to the electronic version of the teaching materials and review the content of the 24-hour course.
难以承受的流量张蓉的女儿在北京一所小学读四年级，原计划在寒假报名参加线下的学而思培优和英语外教课，因为疫情打乱了节奏。
Zhang Rong's daughter, who attended a fourth grade school in Beijing, had planned to enroll for off-line and extra-English classes during the winter vacation because the epidemic had disrupted the pace.
寒假期间，她在朋友圈看到了各种课表的转发，女儿学校的老师也建议尝试在线直播课，张蓉便给孩子报名了猿辅导免费直播课。
During the winter vacation, she saw the retransmission of all kinds of lessons in her circle of friends, and the teacher at her daughter's school also suggested experimenting with live online lessons.
开播当天，张蓉和女儿早早做好上课准备，下午1点前就在iPad前坐好。
On the opening day, Zhang Rong and her daughter made preparations for class early and sat down in front of the iPad before 1 pm.
第一堂课是开学典礼，她所在直播间的人数很快超过了800。
The first class was an opening ceremony, and the number of people in her studio quickly exceeded 800.
然而三四分钟后，直播突然无法显示，页面一直处在加载的状态，在线人数掉到了70，张蓉只好暂时放弃尝试。
Three or four minutes later, however, the live broadcast suddenly failed to show that the page had been loaded and the number of people online had fallen to 70.
2月3日下午，一位保定的学生也在微博抱怨无法在猿辅导看直播。
On the afternoon of Feb. 3, a student in Baoding also complained on Weibo that he could not watch the live broadcast on ape coaching.
随后，猿辅导发布声明称，超过500万人同日在线，在线用户量巨大，导致部分直播间出现故障。
Subsequently, a statement released by the Ape Mentor said more than five million people were online on the same day, with huge numbers of online users causing some studios to malfunction.
14：00后，直播恢复正常。
After 14: 00, the live broadcast resumed.
为了保证授课与听讲的连贯性，在线教育对技术系统稳定性本就较高，但如此大规模、短时间的流量涌入还是史上首次。
In order to ensure the consistency of teaching and listening, online education is more stable to the technical system, but this large-scale, short-term influx of traffic is the first time in history.
仅开播当天，作业帮免费直播课的报名人数就增长了150万人。
On the first day of broadcasting alone, the number of applications for free live-broadcast classes increased by 1.5 million.
开启报名4天后，已有47万人申请有道精品课的免费直播课，总计19万节课。
Four days after the registration was opened, 470,000 people have applied for a free live class with a total of 190,000 lessons.
而根据网易科技的报道，各家头部在线教育品牌在2019年整个暑假的招生量级在200万人左右。
And according to Netease, the number of online education brands enrolled in 2019 was around 2 million.
“熊孩子们的同时并发需求太多了。
"There is too much demand for the children at the same time.
”张蓉感叹道，“免费直播课本身还是很好的，要是技术稳定就更好了。
"The free live lessons themselves are good," Zhang lamented. "Better yet, the technology should be stable.
”没有直播经验的学校教师们大多在直播室将手机对着课本，并在一旁圈画讲解。
Schoolteachers, who do not have direct experience, mostly hold their phones to their textbooks in the studio and circle their explanations.
|驻马店第四中学数学老师杨冰因在厕所直播上课而一时成了网红。
Yang Bingbing, a math teacher at Maidian No. 4 Middle School, became a net red at the time he attended classes live in the restroom.
他说自己不是刻意为之，只是因为环境安静学生能听清讲解。
He said he did not do it deliberately, just because the environment is quiet students can hear the explanation.
为线下教育机构提供线上服务的公司也面临着同样困扰。
Companies that provide online services to offline educational institutions face a similar dilemma.
“从大年初三开始，我们的平台注册量基本每天翻好几倍。
"From the beginning of the New Year's Day, our platform registration basically doubled several times a day.
”小鹅通COO樊晓星说道，这令她始料未及。
"said Goose-Tong COO Fan-xing, which surprised her.
小鹅通是一家为教育行业提供SaaS、PaaS、流量和生态服务的技术服务商，其业务之一就是帮助教育机构实现线上直播教学。
Goose Tone is a technology service provider that provides SaaS, PaaS, traffic and ecological services to the education industry, one of whose businesses is to help educational institutions teach live online.
根据樊晓星以往的经验，春节前后是签约的淡季，除夕的前一天公司便放了假，只留少量的值班人员维持平台运转。
According to Fan Xiaoxing's previous experience, around the Spring Festival is the low season of signing, the day before New Year's Eve the company has taken leave, leaving only a small number of staff on duty to maintain the platform operation.
然而从大年初一开始，工作人员发现平台的新用户注册量开始飙升，客服人员也不断收到咨询信息。
However, from the beginning of the New Year, staff found that the platform's new user registration began to soar, and customer service staff continued to receive advisory information.
起初，很多客户的需求是制作一些诸如如何护理宝宝，如何在疫情期间调整心理状态的公益题材的内容，随着疫情的发展，很多传统的线下教育机构复课困难，他们开始纷纷向小鹅通咨询如何制作线上课程，尤其是成人自考、托福雅思这种考试时间限定的类目。
As the epidemic unfolded, many of the traditional offline educational institutions found it difficult to resume classes. They began to consult Goose on how to make online courses, especially in the limited-time categories of adult self-administered exams and TOEFL iBT.
而这样的需求，并不仅仅局限于湖北，山东、浙江、江西等省份的注册量也都出现了爆发式增长。
Such demand is not limited to Hubei, Shandong, Zhejiang, Jiangxi and other provinces registered explosive growth.
小鹅通的几位骨干成员讨论后决定启动紧急预案，动员团队提前开工。
Goose Tong several key members of the discussion decided to launch an emergency plan to mobilize the team to start ahead of schedule.
光是处理这些“找上门来”的订单，小鹅通的工作量就已饱和。
By simply processing these "come-and-see" orders, Goose-tong is already running out of work.
“每天群里哗哗签约”，一位员工对《第一财经》YiMagazine如此形容道。
"Every day there is an uproar in the group," one employee told First Finance Yi Magazine.
对于这家公司来说，仅仅教老师使用平台就是一项不小的工程。
For the company, simply teaching teachers to use the platform is no small task.
为此，小鹅通的联合创始人喻千里自己当起了主播，开了一期名为“教育机构搭建在线课堂常见问题20讲”的直播课，现场为咨询者答疑。
To this end, Goose-tong's co-founder Yu Qianli himself was the anchor of a live course entitled "Frequently Asked Questions about Setting Up Online Classes in Educational Institutions."
产品落地的速度也需要大大缩短——以往客户从前期咨询到最终课程上线，整个过程沟通下来需要1到3个月，而现在1到2天就要完成。
The speed with which the product lands also needs to be greatly shortened - from the previous consultation period to the final course, which took one to three months to communicate, and now takes one to two days to complete.
大年初三起，小鹅通的核心人员每天晚上都会开一次总结会，汇总当天的业务进展，而一线百余人的服务团队通常要工作持续到夜晚11点——晚上8点开始正是直播网课的高峰期。
On the third day of the new year, Goose-tong's core staff will have a wrap-up session each evening to summarize the day's business progress, while a team of more than a hundred people usually work until 11: 00 pm, the peak time for live webcasts.
目前小鹅通的员工仍处于远程办公状态，由于很多人没有带电脑回老家，公司甚至临时紧急购买了一批电脑寄给员工，方便其工作。
Goose-tong's employees are still telecommuting, and since many have not brought their computers home, the company has even sent them to employees on an emergency basis to facilitate their work.
主要从事“在线教室”产品研发与运营的翼鸥教育，仅仅在大年三十当天，就有近3000家机构在其核心产品——提供班课解决方案的“ClassIn 在线教室”后台注册。
Flock Education, which specializes in the development and operation of "online classroom" products, has nearly 3,000 institutions registered backstage in its core product, ClassIn Online Classroom, which offers classroom solutions, on the eve of the New Year alone.
然而大量线下教培机构涌入，ClassIn原有的网络一下子难以支撑。
But with the influx of offline incubators, Classin's old network was suddenly unable to sustain itself.
为此，公司紧急加班，系统扩容近20倍，结果却导致系统稳定性急剧下降，不得不再次实行限流。
As a result, the company worked overtime on an emergency basis and the system was expanded nearly 20-fold, resulting in a drastic drop in system stability, necessitating the reintroduction of current restrictions.
翼鸥教育在公开信中解释，扩容后的系统，还需要几天时间慢慢稳定。
It will take days for the enlarged system to stabilize, as the Flock Education explains in its open letter.
难以承受的流量考验还在继续一周的时间里，小鹅通接触到了更多细分化的教学场景需求，不少是他们此前都没有遇到过的。
The unbearable flow test continued for a week, and Goose came into contact with the need for more differentiated teaching scenes, many of which they had never encountered before.
“我们的模块工具在业内算是比较丰富的，这两天我们也发现了一些特别小众的客户需求，比如做绘画教育的人，想要连麦传图，但我们暂时无法满足，现阶段以保障大众需求为主。
"We've got a lot of modular tools in the industry, and we've found some very small customer needs over the past two days, such as painting educators who want to pass on maps, but we're not satisfied for the time being.
”樊晓星说，“这几天我们也一直在线上面试人，提前开展招聘。
"We have been interviewing people online these days and recruiting ahead of time," Fan said.
”和业内不少平台用“免费”的方式进一步促进获客不同，小鹅通的管理层经过一番商议之后，仍决定维持原价——这样对老客户更公平，也为平台提供稳定的服务质量提供保障。
Unlike many other platforms in the industry, which use "free" ways to further promote patrons, Goose's management decided, after much deliberation, to maintain the original price - a fairer approach for established customers and a guarantee of stable service quality for the platform.
“相比价格，很多客户更在乎平台功能的丰富性和服务质量。
"Many customers care more about the richness of the platform's capabilities and the quality of its services than price.
”樊晓星说。
"said Fan.
在第三方资源的使用费上，小鹅通会为客户做一些补贴，比如云端的存储费。
On the use of third-party resources, Goose will make some subsidies for customers, such as cloud storage fees.
根据小鹅通平台的访问量计算，大部分用户仍处于筹备上线阶段，对于因疫情引发的订单激增究竟能维持多久，以及线下复课后还能有多少留存，樊晓星显得颇为谨慎：“目前要做的还是服务好客户。
Based on Goose-Tone visits, most users are still preparing for the go-live phase, and Fan Xiaoxing is cautious about how long the surge in orders due to the outbreak will last and how much will remain after the resumption of classes offline.
”在疫情期间，通过学而思网校开设了免费直播课的好未来集团也对《第一财经》YiMagazine表示，目前其还处在试播阶段，“量确实比较大，需要处理很多问题。
During the epidemic, Good Future, which offers free live lessons through the school, also told First Finance Yi Magazine, which is still in the trial stage: "It's a really big volume and a lot of things to deal with.
”按照原计划，各在线教育平台正值寒假班上课与春季班招生期间，临时增加校内同步直播课也增加了额外压力。
As planned, the online education platforms coincided with the start of winter and spring classes, and the temporary addition of live in-school classes added extra pressure.
猿辅导称，已经调配了356位主讲老师、412位助教老师和151位技术人员参与免费超级直播项目。
ape counseling said 356 lecturers, 412 teaching assistants and 151 technicians had been deployed to participate in the free Super-Live program.
如果公司的捐赠限定在湖北地区，还需要大量人力做学员的身份核实。
If the company's donation is limited to Hubei area, it also needs a lot of manpower to do the identification of the students.
随着第一波开课，不少在线教育公司的确凭借产品吸引到了大批免费用户。
With the first wave of classes, many online education companies do attract a large number of free users with their products.
此前获客成本高一直是在线教育行业的痛点。
High customer costs have been a sore point in the online education industry.
根据网易科技披露的数据，在线教育公司的平均获客成本高达1000元，业内转化率在20%至30%左右。
According to Netease's data, online education companies receive an average of 1,000 yuan in customer costs, with industry conversion rates ranging from 20% to 30%.
但激增的流量最终转化为付费用户的效率目前还难以衡量。
But the efficiency with which surging traffic eventually translates into paying customers is difficult to measure.
毕竟，免费直播无法像班课一样获得辅导老师的大量关注与监督，学习成效更加依赖于学生的自觉性和学习习惯。
After all, free live broadcasts do not receive the same amount of attention and supervision from tutors as classes do, and the effectiveness of learning depends more on students' self-awareness and learning habits.
考验还在继续。
The test continues.
2月17日，全国各中小学会陆续开始复课，尽管教育部2月4日表示，各地中小学和教育培训机构不要在正式开学前提供新学期课程的网上教学，但很多学校已经提前做好了线下复课前，先提供线上教学的准备。
On 17 February, primary and secondary schools across the country resumed classes, although the Ministry of Education indicated on 4 February that schools and educational and training institutions would not offer online instruction for the new semester before the official opening of the school year, but many schools had prepared for online instruction before resuming classes offline.
而这对一直渴望渗透到校内时间的在线教育行业来说，既是一次绝佳机会，也是更大的挑战。
This is both a great opportunity and a greater challenge for the online education industry, which has always aspired to infiltrate school hours.
已经有一些在线教育公司和这些公立学校建立了合作。
A number of online education companies have established partnerships with these public schools.
比如好未来，截至1月30日，它已接到全国近200个学校的需求，开通平台测试的总共66个学校。
For example, as of January 30, it had received demand from nearly 200 schools across the country, opening a total of 66 schools tested by the platform.
需求对接后，好未来会在线上培训教师，制作上手手册，教师在电脑端下载好未来直播云的软件直播教学，学生可以通过电脑、手机、平板等设备在家听课。
Once the demand docks, teachers will be trained online, handwritten manuals will be produced, and teachers will be able to download live software from the future live cloud on the computer, and students will be able to attend classes at home via computers, cell phones, tablets, and so on.
如同其网校，软件中也会提供答题器等工具。
Like its network school, the software will also provide answer machine and other tools.
河南郑州的中小学则统一使用阿里巴巴旗下的在线办公软件钉钉。
Henan Zhengzhou primary and secondary schools are unified using Alibaba's online office software nail.
2019年12月底，钉钉紧急上线了支持多人的音视频会议系统，免费支持102人的同时音视频会议。
At the end of December 2019, a multi-person audio and video conferencing system was put on line on an emergency basis to support simultaneous audio and video meetings for 102 people free of charge.
这一功能无疑是为应疫情下的办公需求而紧急开发的，不过102人设定的目标人群针对的可能不是上班族，而是课堂。
No doubt this feature was developed on an emergency basis in response to office needs in the event of an epidemic, although the target audience of 102 people may not be office workers, but rather classrooms.
2月1日，郑州市新郑三中的高三教师陈妍用这款App给她班上的50名学生上了一节课。
On February 1, Chen Yuna, a third-year teacher in Zhengzhou's Xinzheng District, taught a lesson with the App to 50 students in her class.
所有学生开的都是音频，她一个人打开了摄像头，除了需要不断地在PPT投屏和在镜头直播之间切换，她感觉上课和平时没有什么不同。
All the students were audio, and she turned on the camera on her own, feeling that class was no different than usual, except that she had to constantly switch between the PPT screen and live footage.
课程安排上，陈妍所在学校也依旧按照上午三节课、下午三节课的节奏排课，每节课之间的休息时间从10分钟拉长为半个小时，晚上没有安排课程，但早上仍然有早读。
Chen's school also continued to schedule classes according to the pace of three morning and three afternoon classes, with breaks between classes stretching from 10 minutes to half an hour, with no classes scheduled for the evening but morning reading.
“班主任和语文、英语老师会早上定时进微信群做学生点名，也会让家长拍视频上传、监督学生早读。
The head teacher and the Chinese and English teachers will carry out the roll call regularly in the morning. They will also ask parents to make video uploads and supervise students to read early.
”陈妍说，但这种监管很有限。
But that regulation is limited, Chen said.
然而钉钉却收到了被拽回课桌的师生们“怒”打的一星。
However, the nail was pulled back to the desk of students and teachers "anger" hit a star.
2019年3月，钉钉推出针对教育行业的“教育钉钉”，当年12月取得教育部备案后，当月就拿下了人口大城郑州市教育局的“订单”。
In March 2019, the nail launched an "educational nail" for the education sector, which won an "order" from the Zhengzhou Education Bureau, the populous city, in December of that year.
其中，郑州经济技术开发区教育局要求区内的各教育单位在1月19日前全部注册和激活“钉钉智慧教育平台”，教育单位会通过这一平台发布针对下属教育系统的“因公信息”。
The Education Bureau of the Zhengzhou Economic and Technological Development Zone (Zhengzhou Economic and Technological Development Zone) requires all educational institutions in the area to register and activate the Nail Wisdom Education Platform by January 19.
该区还计划在2月10日后完成班级群、学生家长信息的导入，形成“家校通讯录”。
The district also plans to complete the introduction of information for class groups and parents after February 10, forming a "home-school address book."
这也意味着，一旦2月10日开始大规模应用，这些平台的系统稳定性必将受到更大关注——公立学校和其学生家长们，对其“容错率”可不会很高。
It also means that, once large-scale applications begin on February 10, greater attention will be paid to the stability of these platforms - public schools and their parents, for whom "fault tolerance" is unlikely to be high.
其实，更多学校并未选择这些市场化的在线教育平台。
In fact, more schools did not choose these market-based online education platform.
比如武汉中小学使用的空中课堂平台，开发者为武汉天喻信息产业股份有限公司。
Wuhan Tianyu Information Industry Co. Ltd is the developer of the air class platform used in Wuhan primary and secondary schools.
其包括直播授课、互动答疑、点播回看、作业、考试等功能，小学和初中的直播课由各区组织老师统一授课，高中则是每个学校自行授课。
It consists of live teaching, interactive answering, on-demand viewing, homework, examinations, etc., with live classes in primary and lower secondary schools being taught uniformly by teachers in the districts and in upper secondary schools being taught by each school itself.
湖南长沙市中小学，则采取提前录播方式在线授课，其使用的平台叫人人通，由湖南天天向上信息科技公司提供技术支持。
Changsha City, Hunan Province, the primary and secondary schools, using the pre-recorded mode of online instruction, its platform is called universal, Hunan Tiantiansheng information technology companies provide technical support.
这两家公司都有教育部的背书。
Both companies are endorsed by the Ministry of Education.
北京等地的学校，很多则选择自己开发系统，由学校或区教委统一安排提前录制。
Many schools in Beijing and other places choose to develop their own system, by the school or district education committee to arrange for advance recording.
比如位于朝阳区的市重点中学八十中，早在2015年北京雾霾达到严重污染，中小学及幼儿园停课时期，就上线了自己开发的网课系统。
For example, in the city of Chaoyang District, 80 of the city's key secondary schools, as early as 2015 fog haze reached serious pollution, primary and secondary schools and kindergartens closed, on-line on their own development of the network classes system.
如今，老师们已经可以很熟练地在家用一台电脑，以录屏的方式为学生上课——事实上，17年前的“非典”时期，北京地区也开设了“空中课堂”，以录播形式上课。
Teachers are now adept at using a computer at home to teach students on video screens - in fact, during the SARS epidemic 17 years ago, classes in the air were also held in Beijing.
非典时期的“空中课堂”而清华大学使用的则是自己开发的“雨课堂”平台，其可支持MOOC（大型开放式网络课程）、手写录屏、其他视频、语音、PPT、习题等内容在线传播。
While Tsinghua University used its own "Rain Classroom" platform to support online distribution of MOOC (large open web courses), handwritten videos, other videos, voice, PPT, problem sets, etc.
“雨课堂”如今不只局限于清华校内，很多其他学校也在使用。
"Rain Classroom" is not only limited to Tsinghua University, but also used in many other schools.
“我们不会向学生推荐其他的在线教育，在自己学校就有网络课程的情况下，肯定优先本校的课程，这样更加贴合学生实际情况，符合学情。
"We don't recommend other online education to our students. If we have an online course in our own school, we will definitely prioritize our own," he said.
”北京八十中的一位老师对《第一财经》YiMagazine说。
One of Beijing's 80 teachers told First Finance Yi Magazine.
（应采访对象要求，张蓉、陈妍为化名）本文版权归第一财经所有，未经许可不得转载或翻译。
At the request of the interviewee, Zhang Rong and Chen Yan are alias. The copyright of this article belongs to First Finance and Economics.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
特别报道 | 疫情之下，在线教育能否“逆行而上”？。
Can online education be "retrograde" with the epidemic?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "第一财经YiMagazine";。
var nickname = & quot; First Finance Yi Magazine & quot;;;
var msg_title = "特别报道 | 疫情之下，在线教育能否“逆行而上”？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "一场疫情改变了教培行业的局面，这既是在线教育相关公司承担社会责任的时期，也是证明其价值的机会。
var msg _ desc = & quot; An epidemic has transformed the teaching and training industry, both as a period of social responsibility for companies involved in online education and as an opportunity to prove its worth.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="第一财经YiMagazine";。
var title = & quot; First Finance Yi Magazine & quot;;;
