意大利疫情威胁全欧洲：封城12座，逃离者可拘三个月。
The Italian epidemic threatens Europe as a whole: 12 cities are closed and escapees can be detained for three months.
曹然。
Cao Ran.
中国新闻周刊                      。
China News Weekly.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
这里是《中国新闻周刊》掌门周刊君，影响有影响力的你。
This is the head of China News Weekly magazine, the influence of influential you.
和我一起拨开迷雾，追寻真相，守望时代。
Join me as we move through the fog, seek the truth and keep watch.
。
.
一开始意大利人觉得病毒来自中国，害怕中国人现在意大利人病例多了，华人反过来怕意大利人2月25日，意大利总理孔特在民防部主持防疫工作会议。
Italians initially thought the virus had come from China, fearing that many Italians now have more cases. The Chinese, in turn, were afraid of Italians.
图片来源：意大利总理府官网意大利伦巴第大区首府米兰以南约70公里，圣菲奥拉诺居民马尔齐奥依然可以和家人一起散步、遛狗、骑自行车。
Source: Italian Prime Minister's Office Network, about 70 km south of Milan, the capital of Italy's Lombardy region. Marchio, a resident of San Fiorano, can still walk, walk and bike with his family.
唯一的麻烦是，他们和其他五万多名意大利居民被告知，不能离开现在的居住地。
The only trouble was that they and more than 50,000 other Italian residents were told they could not leave their current place of residence.
从当地时间2月24日起，意大利警方封锁了包括圣菲奥拉诺在内的十座米兰近郊城镇，以及邻省威尼托的一座小镇。
Since February 24, local time, Italian police have blocked 10 Milan suburbs, including San Fiorano, as well as a small town in the neighboring province of Veneto.
此外，小城克雷莫纳在出现本地确诊病例后也宣布“封城”。
In addition, the small town of Kramona after the emergence of locally confirmed cases also declared "closed city."
伦巴第和威尼托大区被认为是意大利新冠病毒肺炎疫情爆发的重灾区。
Lombardy and Veneto are thought to be the hardest hit by the outbreak of pneumonia in Italy.
25日到26日，意大利的新冠病毒确诊病例增长了近25%。
Between the 25th and 26th, the number of confirmed cases of the new crown virus in Italy rose by nearly 25%.
意大利紧急民防部的最新通报显示意大利新冠肺炎确诊患者已增至528例，累计死亡患者14人。
A recent report from the Italian Ministry of Civil Defence shows that the number of confirmed cases of pneumonia in Italy has risen to 528, with a cumulative total of 14 deaths.
确诊病例中，有三分之二出自意大利北部的伦巴第和威尼托。
Two thirds of the confirmed cases came from Lombardy and Veneto in northern Italy.
这一区域是意大利人口密集、经济活跃的地区，贡献该国国民生产总值的三分之一和出口额的一半。
This region is densely populated and economically active in Italy, contributing one third of the country's gross national product and half of its exports.
但这也意味着意大利的疫区中心与欧洲国家交往频繁。
But it also means that Italy's epizootic centers interact frequently with European countries.
美国约翰·霍普金斯大学卫生安全中心资深学者阿梅什·阿达利亚在接受《中国新闻周刊》采访时表示，欧洲将无法阻止意大利北部的疫情向整个欧洲大陆蔓延。
Europe will not be able to stop the epidemic in northern Italy spreading across the continent, Amesh Adalia, a senior scholar at Johns Hopkins University's Center for Health and Safety, told China News Weekly.
截止2月26日，南美洲国家巴西和7个欧洲国家通报出现了与意大利疫区有关的确诊病例。
As of 26 February, the South American countries of Brazil and seven European countries had reported confirmed cases related to the Italian epidemic.
不过，意大利总理孔特依然相信能在“未来几天内”遏制冠状病毒的爆发。
However, Italian Prime Minister Matteo Conte remains confident that the outbreak of coronavirus can be contained "in the next few days."
“我不能说我不担心，因为我们没有低估紧急情况。
"I can't say I'm not worried because we didn't underestimate the emergency.
”但他也表示，有信心通过采取严厉措施控制住疫情的扩散。
But he said he was confident that strict measures would be taken to contain the spread of the epidemic.
消失的“零号病人”距米兰约60公里的小镇科多尼奥有15000多名居民。
Disappearing patient number zero has more than 15, 000 residents in the small town of Cordonio, about 60 kilometers from Milan.
2月19日，一位38岁的当地男子被送入小镇医院。
On 19 February, a 38-year-old local man was taken to a small town hospital.
随后，该男子怀孕的妻子、小镇医院的多位医生、工作人员和病人都感染了病毒。
Subsequently, the man's pregnant wife, doctors, staff and patients at the town hospital were infected with the virus.
孔特2月24日介绍称，科多尼奥的医院没有按照应对新冠病毒疫情的规程处理这一病例。
On 24 February, Konte reported that the hospital in Cordonio had not handled the case in accordance with the protocols for dealing with the new crown virus outbreak.
他拒绝透露更多细节，但表示：“医院的管理并不是完全正确的，这是造成病毒传播的原因之一。
He declined to give further details but said: "Hospital management is not entirely correct and this is one of the reasons for the spread of the virus."
”这位38岁的男子被意大利媒体称为“一号病人”。
The 38-year-old man was dubbed "patient number one" by the Italian media.
意大利民防部透露，发生在伦巴第的大区的确诊病例占到意大利总感染人数的一半以上，多数和“一号病人”有关。
According to the Ministry of Civil Defence of Italy, confirmed cases in the Lombardy region account for more than half of the total number of infections in Italy, mostly related to "patient number one."
截至26日，意大利卫生部门依然未能找到将病毒传播给“一号病人”的“零号病人”。
As of June 26, Italian health authorities were still unable to find "patient zero" to spread the virus to "patient number one."
早些时候，一对来自武汉的中国夫妇在意大利确诊新冠病毒，并被送入罗马的医院治疗，但“一号病人”没有与他们接触的历史。
Earlier, a Chinese couple from Wuhan confirmed the new crown virus in Italy and were taken to a hospital in Rome for treatment, but Patient One had no history of contact with them.
26日，这对中国夫妇已经病愈出院。
26, the Chinese couple has recovered from the hospital.
伦巴第大区的聚集性病例爆发后，意大利政府于2月22日召开紧急会议，通过了对新冠病毒疫情采取紧急措施的法令。
An emergency meeting of the Italian Government was held on 22 February, following the outbreak of a case of aggregation in the Lombardy region, which resulted in the adoption of a decree on urgent measures to deal with the outbreak of the new crown virus.
法令内容包括关闭市政设施、学校和其他公共机构，对感染者的密切接触者进行隔离检疫，通过暂时性的禁令减少部分商业活动，限制部分地区的货运甚至客运服务等。
The decree includes the closure of municipal facilities, schools and other public institutions, the quarantine of close contacts of infected persons, the reduction of some commercial activities through a temporary ban, and restrictions on cargo and even passenger services in some areas.
两天后，意大利警方开始封锁科多尼奥及周边小镇。
Two days later, Italian police began to block Kodoño and surrounding towns.
美国广播公司（ABC）报道称，在这些被称为“红区”的地区，意大利警方设卡封堵了城镇通向外界的道路，不允许居民离开。
In what has been dubbed the "red zone," Italian police have blocked roads to the outside world and prevented residents from leaving, ABC reports.
圣菲奥拉诺居民马尔齐奥也在其中。
Marchio, a resident of San Fiorano, was among them.
他对路透社记者表示，自己依然可以上街，“但当局建议我们应该避免与他人接触。
"He told Reuters he could still go out on the street," but the authorities advised us to avoid contact with others.
”此外，超市依然开放，但一次只允许50人进入。
Supermarkets also remained open, but only 50 people were allowed in at a time.
而任何试图逃离封锁的人将面临最高三个月的监禁或高达206欧元（约1573元人民币）的罚款。
Anyone trying to escape the blockade could face up to three months in jail or a fine of up to 206 euros (about Rmb1,573).
“如果一个地区开始有疫情，你有义务留在那里，请尊重这一点，这对所有人都有好处。
"If an outbreak starts in an area, you have an obligation to stay, please respect that, which is in everyone's interest.
”民防部长博雷利说。
"said Civil Defence Minister Ali Borelli.
意大利的“火神山医院”正在建设靠近科多尼奥的米兰则被列为“黄区”，学校、博物馆等公共机构关闭，酒吧等行业也接到了营业限制。
Italy's Mount Fire Hospital is being built near Cordonio, and Milan is being designated as a "yellow zone," with schools, museums and other public institutions closed and bars and other businesses restricted.
然而，旅居在此的《新欧洲侨报》总编辑吴杰26日在街上看到，中国人开的店铺几乎都已关门停业，但当地人的店铺“关门的只有十分之一”，很多意大利店员也没有佩戴口罩。
However, Wu Jie, editor-in-chief of the New European Overseas Chinese newspaper, saw on the street yesterday that almost all Chinese shops were closed, but only one in 10 local shops were "closed" and many Italian staff members did not wear masks.
意大利总理孔特2月24日称，相信自己严格的法令是适当的。
Italian Prime Minister Matteo Conte said on Feb. 24 that he believed his strict rule was appropriate.
但吴杰对《中国新闻周刊》表示，据他观察，一般意大利人“在对新冠病毒的认识上和中国人不太一样，他们认为好像就是一种流感。
But Wu told China News Weekly that he had observed that the average Italian "does not know the new crown virus as well as the Chinese, who think it's like a flu."
”“‘黄区’应该算是比较紧张的，但意大利人好像都不怕似的。
"" The yellow zone is supposed to be nervous, but the Italians don't seem to be afraid.
”吴杰说，“一些人还照样在餐馆里面吃饭，在酒吧里说说笑笑的。
"Some people still eat in restaurants and talk and laugh in bars," Wu said.
”此前，一些米兰超市商品售空的照片在网上流传。
Earlier, photos of some Milan supermarket merchandise being sold short were circulating online.
但据吴杰的观察，没有看到很多意大利人囤积物资。
But according to Wu Jie's observations, not many Italians were seen hoarding supplies.
“一般是买一点东西，应付一两天。
It's usually a matter of shopping for a day or two.
空货架可能是没有及时补货。
Empty shelves may not be replenished in time.
”“倒是华人准备的充分一些。
"" But the Chinese are better prepared.
”不过，疫情防护物资已出现紧缺。
However, supplies to protect against the outbreak are already in short supply.
研究机构尼尔森（Nielsen）2月25日公布的数据显示，2020年前六周，意大利洗手液的销量达90万件，较上年增长9倍。
In the first six weeks of 2020, Italy sold 900,000 hand sanitizers, a ninefold increase from a year earlier, according to figures released February 25 by research firm Nielsen.
此外，有米兰地区检察官接受路透社采访时透露，部分商家将售价7欧元的消毒液涨价到39欧元、将每只1分的口罩涨价到10欧元销售。
In an interview with Reuters, prosecutors from the Milan area said some companies raised the price of the 7-euro disinfectant to 39 euros and the price of 1-cent face masks to 10 euros.
目前，意大利的新冠病毒肺炎疫情已造成14人死亡，另有31人处于重症监护中。
Italy's new crown pneumonia has killed 14 people and 31 others are in intensive care.
“医院的床位确实有限，一般的医院传染病科没有那么多床位。
"It is true that the hospital beds are limited and the general hospital infectious diseases section does not have that many beds.
但意大利正在建设自己的‘火神山医院’，在一种很大的帐篷里，可以容纳不少床位。
But Italy is building its own Mount Fire Hospital, a large tent that can hold a lot of beds.
”吴杰对《中国新闻周刊》表示。
Wu told China News Weekly.
24日，意大利传染病研究所已经在疫区建立了这种“帐篷医院”。
The Italian Institute of Infectious Diseases has set up the "tent hospital" in the affected areas on the 24th.
意大利总理孔特面临的另一项困难来自地方政府。
Another difficulty faced by Italian Prime Minister Conte comes from local governments.
意大利民防部网站应对新冠病毒疫情专页上的信息显示，目前意大利多数指导防疫工作的法令来自于中央政府、卫生部、民防部、各大区政府和代表7000多座城镇的市政协会。
According to the information on the page devoted to responding to the new crown virus epidemic on the website of the Italian Ministry of Civil Defence, most current Italian ordinances governing epidemic prevention come from the central Government, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Civil Defence, regional governments and municipal associations representing more than 7,000 municipalities.
在疫情未全面爆发前，孔特曾表示，如果意大利地方卫生当局无法阻止病毒传播，中央政府可能会介入。
Prior to the outbreak, Conte had said the central government might step in if local health authorities failed to stop the virus from spreading.
这引发了伦巴第大区主席阿提里奥·丰塔纳的激烈反应，他说“这是不可接受的干涉”。
This provoked a violent reaction from the president of Lombardy, Atirio Fontana, who said "this is unacceptable interference."
2月26日，孔特表示，中央政府已经向所有大区发布了指令，以“确保全国范围内行动的最大一致性”。
On 26 February, Conte stated that the central Government had issued directives to all regions to "ensure maximum coherence of action throughout the country."
但就在当天，因酒吧、俱乐部和迪斯科舞厅的老板们集体请愿，米兰市政府取消了对酒吧等娱乐场所晚上6时后不得营业的禁令。
But on the same day, the Municipality of Milan lifted the ban on bars and other entertainment establishments from operating after 6 p.m. after a collective petition by owners of bars, clubs and discotheques.
“意大利把（防疫）组织和管理机制都交给了地区，不像其他国家由一个统一的机制负责。
"Italy has handed over the organization and administration of [epidemic prevention] to the regions, unlike other countries where there is a unified mechanism.
”世卫组织官员沃尔特·里查迪（Walter Ricciardi）25日接受美国有线电视新闻网（CNN）采访时指出，“现在那些国家的病例比意大利少，这不是巧合。
"It is no coincidence that there are fewer cases in those countries than in Italy," WHO official Walter Ricciardi told CNN on Friday.
”欧洲要做好应对病人激增的准备接受路透社采访时，意大利“红区”居民马尔齐奥抱怨道，为了让爷爷明白酒吧为什么被当地政府关闭，“我们已经告诉他100次，酒吧是因为西班牙流感而关门了。
"In an interview with Reuters on Europe's preparedness to deal with a surge in patients, Marchio, a resident of Italy's" red zone, "complained that in order for his grandfather to understand why the bar had been closed by the local government," we have told him 100 times that the bar was closed because of the Spanish flu.
”一百年前在欧洲、美洲、非洲、亚洲同时蔓延的西班牙流感曾造成全球约30%的人口感染。
The Spanish flu, which spread simultaneously in Europe, America, Africa and Asia a century ago, infected about 30 percent of the world's population.
研究显示，病毒通过受感染的船员、铁路人员和交通乘客在各地传播，欧洲国家无一幸免。
Studies have shown that the virus spreads through infected crews, railway personnel and passengers, and that no European country is immune.
2月24日到25日，瑞士、奥地利、克罗地亚、阿尔及利亚等国宣布境内出现首例新冠病毒确诊病例，病人近期都曾往返意大利。
From 24 to 25 February, Switzerland, Austria, Croatia and Algeria announced the first confirmed cases of the new crown virus in their territories, with patients recently travelling to and from Italy.
法国和德国也报告了最近去过意大利北部的新病例。
France and Germany also reported new cases of recent visits to northern Italy.
此外，一名刚从意大利返回的巴西居民的新冠病毒检测呈阳性，成为拉丁美洲的首个确诊病例。
In addition, a Brazilian resident who had just returned from Italy had tested positive for the new crown virus, making it the first confirmed case in Latin America.
在阿尔卑斯山下的奥地利城市因斯布鲁克，一家酒店的意大利员工被确诊感染，酒店随之被封闭。
In the Austrian city of Innsbruck, in the Alps, the hotel was closed after an Italian employee was diagnosed with the infection.
在南欧，西班牙加那利群岛上的酒店里也已隔离了700多名旅客。
In southern Europe, hotels in Spain's Canary Islands have also quarantined more than 700 tourists.
他们在等待病毒检测结果。
They're waiting for the virus test results.
此前，入住这里的30名意大利游客中已经有一人出现感染症状。
Earlier, one in 30 Italian tourists who checked in had developed symptoms of the infection.
作为申根区国家，意大利境内人员可以自由流动到相邻的法国、瑞士等国，其间没有实际边境。
As a Schengen area country, Italy's people can move freely to neighboring France, Switzerland and other countries, there is no physical border.
2月25日，来自意大利、法国、德国的卫生部长们和欧盟委员会举行会议，各方承诺将保持边境开放，因为关闭边境是“不成比例且无效的”。
On February 25, health ministers from Italy, France, and Germany met with the European Commission and promised to keep the border open because it was "disproportionate and ineffective."
英国卫生部也表示，目前没有计划停止往来意大利的航班。
Britain's Health Ministry also said there are no plans to stop flights to and from Italy.
“看看意大利，他们早就停止了所有来自中国的航班，现在他们是欧洲受影响最严重的国家。
"Look at Italy, which has long stopped all flights from China and is now the worst-affected country in Europe.
”卫生大臣马特·汉考克说。
"said Matt Hancock, health secretary.
约翰·霍普金斯大学公共卫生专家阿梅什·阿达利亚赞成这种决定。
Amesh Adalia, a public health expert at Johns Hopkins University, endorsed the decision.
“我不认为这种规模的隔离能够阻止病毒的传播。
"I don't think isolation on this scale can stop the spread of the virus.
”阿达利亚对《中国新闻周刊》表示，问题的关键在“这不是一种可控制的病毒，没有什么办法将之隔绝于国门之外。
The crux of the matter, Adalia told China News Weekly, "is that this is not a controllable virus and there is no way to isolate it from the outside world."
”欧洲疾控中心指出，考虑到人员的广泛流动和病毒的人传人性质，加之各国检测能力的提高，预计欧洲未来将报告更多病例。
The CDC says more cases are expected to be reported in Europe in the future, given the widespread movement of people and the human-to-human nature of the virus, as well as improved detection capacity in various countries.
在2月26日更新的风险评估中，欧洲疾控中心披露，除意大利的病例外，欧盟和英国报告的所有病例迄今已明确确立流行病学联系。
In an updated risk assessment dated 26 February, the European CDC disclosed that all cases reported in the EU and the UK, with the exception of the Italian case, had so far clearly established an epidemiological link.
但是，意大利仍在在努力识别、隔离和检测接触者。
However, Italy is still working to identify, isolate and test those exposed.
且随着报告病例的国家数量不断增加，其他国家病例新进入欧盟的可能性在增加。
And with the number of countries reporting cases increasing, the likelihood of new cases entering the EU is increasing in other countries.
因此，欧洲仍面临中高等级的病毒传播风险。
As a result, Europe is still at high and medium risk of spreading the virus.
“目前各国需要做的是让它们的医院做好应对患者激增的准备，尽管其中许多人的病情将较为轻微。
"What countries need to do now is prepare their hospitals to deal with surges in patients, although many of them will be milder."
”阿达利亚说。
"said Adalia.
吴杰对《中国新闻周刊》透露，截至26日，意大利本地华人无人感染新冠病毒。
Wu Jie told China News Weekly that as of June 26, no one in Italy's native Chinese had been infected with the new crown virus.
“一开始，意大利人觉得病毒来自中国，害怕中国人；现在意大利人的病例多了，华人反过来怕意大利人。
"At first the Italians thought the virus came from China and feared the Chinese; now there are more cases in Italy, and the Chinese are in turn afraid of the Italians.
”吴杰说。
"said Wu Jie.
值班编辑：冯超封面报道之四《防控之辨——我们怎样科学应对》（由6篇报道组成）点击下图，一键下单。
On-duty editor: Feng Chao cover coverage of "Defense of Prevention and Control - How we deal with it scientifically" (consisting of 6 stories) click the following figure and press one button to place an order.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
意大利疫情威胁全欧洲：封城12座，逃离者可拘三个月。
The Italian epidemic threatens Europe as a whole: 12 cities are closed and escapees can be detained for three months.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "时事政治";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "中国新闻周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "意大利疫情威胁全欧洲：封城12座，逃离者可拘三个月";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Italy's epidemic threatens all of Europe: it has shut down 12 cities, and deserters may have AT least three months' detention;;
var msg_desc = "一开始意大利人觉得病毒来自中国，害怕中国人；现在意大利人病例多了，华人反过来怕意大利人";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="中国新闻周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by China News & quot;
