最后一公里的社区“守护神”。
The last kilometer of the community "patron saint."
卓夕琳。
Charlie Chaplin.
我们是有故事的人                      。
We are people with stories.
我们是有故事的人。
We are people with stories.
每一行都有认真的人，再平凡的人也有不平凡的故事。
There are serious people in every line, and even ordinary people have extraordinary stories.
华中科技大学出版社官方非虚构故事平台，有故事的人终将在这里相遇。
Huazhong University of Science and Technology Press official non-fiction platform, the story will eventually meet here.
。
.
“- 疫 情之下 -如果没有按下全国的紧急暂停键，所有居民足不出户，所有像老陈这样的物业人员全力守护的最后一公里，也没有现在渐近的明朗和希望。
"- Under epidemic conditions - if the national emergency moratorium is not pressed, all residents remain in their homes, and all property owners, like Lao Chen, are left with the last kilometer left unattended, and there is little hope and clarity now approaching.
” 1大年30那天中午，重庆渝北某小区的物业管家老陈在家和家人简单地吃了个团年饭后急匆匆地赶回了单位。
On the 30th day of the year, Chen, a housekeeper in a residential area in Yubei, Chongqing, hurried back to work after a simple reunion dinner with his family.
虽然走得很匆忙，但临行前他还是把一副自己前些日子写的对联工工整整地贴在了自家大门上，边贴边念叨：“哎，前些年还有守门神画像可以和我的字作个伴，现在也不流行了，门神画都买不到了 。
Before he left, though in a hurry, he stuck a pair of couplets he had written the other day to his own door and read, "Well, there were other portraits of goalkeepers with which I could write in years past, and they're not in fashion these days.
”自武汉1月23日封城开始，老陈所负责管理的整个小区也随之开始实行整体的一套管控制度。
"Since the city was closed on January 23 in Wuhan, the whole neighborhood under Chen's management has been governed by a holistic system.
作为一个拥有5800家住户的成熟小区，疫情在因春节返乡潮之际呈几何倍数递增的情况下，老陈是最直接、最频繁面对居住者的物业服务一线人员，也是所在小区疫情防控和一旦有事故发生最早的参与者。
As a mature community with 5,800 households, the epidemic is increasing exponentially due to the Spring Festival homecoming wave. Lao Chen is the most direct and frequent frontline of property services to the residents, as well as the earliest participants in the prevention and control of the epidemic in the area and in case of accidents.
回到单位那天下午，老陈组织全体物业一线管理人员立马召开了一个紧急会议。
Returning to the unit that afternoon, the first line managers of the old Chen organization immediately convened an emergency meeting.
会议的主题只有一个：全体员工取消所有休假，24小时全面守住整个小区，直到疫情结束。
There was only one theme: all staff canceled all leave, 24-hour full coverage of the community until the end of the epidemic.
老陈今年43岁，作为一个退伍军人，早年的部队生活让他保持着非常好的体型和生活习惯。
Chen, 43, is a veteran whose early years in the army have kept him in great shape and habits.
随时随地都是一身正装，着一双擦得锃亮的黑色皮鞋，配上他那张长着浓眉的国字脸，眼神凌厉，看上去非常专业，有一种让人信服的安全感。
He was always in business attire, with polished black shoes, with his thick eyebrow, a sharp look, a very professional look, and a convincing sense of security.
已经干了十三年物业服务工作的老陈，来到这个小区做管家也4年有余了，但如今的情况还是第一次面对。
Mr. Chen, who has been in the property service for 13 years, has been working as a housekeeper in this community for more than four years.
他感觉自己心里没有底儿，可依然只能故作镇定地给同事们打着一针针的鸡血，谁也没有空去琢磨自己的安危。
He felt that there was nothing in his mind, but he could only pretend to calm his colleagues with a shot of chicken blood, and no one had time to contemplate his own safety.
那时他还不知道，接下来自己将要面对怎样一段波涛汹涌的日子。
At that time he did not know what rough times he was going to face next.
2就在当天晚上，北京时间19:31分，正在楼栋例行检查工作的老陈手机微信群突然冒出来几十条信息。
Just that evening, at 19: 31 p.m. Beijing time, dozens of messages popped up from the old Chen microphone microphone microphone group, which was carrying out routine checks on the building.
他赶紧打开一看，里面是一位业主录的一段视频，内容是一辆湖北籍小轿车在车库门岗处停着，驾驶员探出脑袋在和保安说话，大意是要求门岗放行。
He quickly opened it, and inside was a video of a Hubei-born car parked at the garage door. The driver leaned his head out and spoke to the guard to the effect that he would ask the guard to let him go.
视频在群里迅速炸开了锅。
The video explodes the pan in the group.
老陈愣了愣神，随即拿出对讲机吼道：“不能放行！等着我！我马上过去！”原本要走10来分钟的路程，老陈5分钟就到了，这让戴着口罩的他有点胸闷。
Old Chen Leng Leng Leng, then took out the walkie-talkie shouted: "Can't go! Wait for me! I'll be right over!" Originally about 10 minutes' walk, Chen arrived in five minutes, which made him a bit chest tightness wearing a mask.
他到后发现车库门口已积压了不少等待进车库的业主车辆，喇叭声此起彼伏，但没有一个车主下车来。
When he arrived, he found that there was a backlog of owner-occupied cars waiting to enter the garage. Horns honked, but none of the owners got out.
“ 什么情况，这位先生。
'What's the matter, sir?
” 老陈隔着半米的位置探下了身子敲了敲关着的驾驶座窗户。
"Old Chen leaned over half a metre and knocked at the closed driver's window.
“蹬……” 的一声，窗户快速地放了下来，老陈看见一个40多岁没有戴口罩的中年男子，心里揪了一下。
"Slide......" One, the window quickly dropped down, old Chen saw a 40-year-old man without wearing a mask, the heart pulled.
“我是32栋xx业主家的亲戚，约定今日在他家团年，我们一家5个人刚从湖北开车回来，请放我们通行。
"I am a relative of the 32 xx owner's house. I have appointed five members of my family to drive back from Hubei this year.
” 这个男子用快速的语气说道。
"said the man, in a rapid tone.
“湖北、疫情、全家团年、没有口罩” 这几个关键词立马闪现在老陈的脑海里。
"Hubei, epidemic situation, family year, no mask" these key words immediately flash in Lao Chen's mind.
那个时候，新冠肺炎正处于肆虐渗透的高点，虽然武汉封城才刚一日，但整个湖北省没有完全封闭，所以这辆湖北籍车辆是从下属的一个地级市出发，经宜昌进入重庆辖区巫山后一路赶到这里的。
Although Wuhan was only one day old, the whole province of Hubei was not completely closed, so the Hubei vehicle started from a subordinate city and arrived there all the way through Yichang after entering the Wushan district of Chongqing.
“怎么办，没有明确的文件规定湖北车辆和人员不能进入，也不能带有色眼镜去对待湖北人。
"How to do, there is no clear document that Hubei vehicles and personnel can not enter, and can not take coloured glasses to treat Hubei people.
” 老陈脑子此刻飞快地运转。
"Old Chen's brain was spinning furiously.
“这样吧，您配合一下先别下车，我先通报一下我们物业总负责人和社区负责人，也马上通知业主下来。
'Well, if you'll excuse me, I'll inform the head of our property and the head of the community first, and inform the landlord immediately.
您把车先挪到边上，让后面的业主先进去。
You move the car to the side and let the back owner go in first.
” 思考片刻，老陈一气呵成。
"Thinking for a moment, Old Chen responded angrily.
大概等了10来分钟，业主就出来配合核实了身份情况，老陈他们就把车放了进去。
After about 10 minutes, the owner came out to verify his identity. Old Chen put the car in.
社区也来了电话让老陈告知，与行车人员有正面接触的业主一家必须全部在家封闭隔离14天。
The community also called Chen to tell him that the owner's family, who had positive contact with the driver, had to be isolated at home for 14 days.
业主答应地很爽快。
The owner promised to be cheerful.
“社区只是通过电话下达了要求，业主也是口头答应，并没有签署任何文件，如果业主不遵守怎么办？” 这是老陈在车辆走后想到的第一个问题。
"The community only made the request by telephone and the owner agreed verbally and did not sign any documents. What if the owner did not comply?" This was Chen's first question after he left the car.
而随之出现的 “小区其他业主我们该如何交待？我们该如何保障他们的安全？特别是和他们所处一栋楼的业主该怎么办？” 这些问题让老陈沉缓下来的心一下又提到了嗓子眼，他有些口干舌燥。
"How do we account for the other owners in the neighborhood? How do we keep them safe? Especially with the owners of the building where they live?" These questions put old Chen's heart back into his mouth, and his mouth was dry.
在这个住着两万多人的大型小区里面，如果真的有疫情发生，那后果真的不堪设想。
In this large community of more than 20, 000 people, if there is really an outbreak, the consequences are really unthinkable.
3“不管了，先上门去查看查看，大不了我就守在那里。
No matter, go and look it up first, or I'll be there
” 这是老陈琢磨后最初的解决方案，知己知彼，乃兵法上策。
"This is the first solution Chen pondered, knowing one from the other is the best military strategy.
这位业主家所在的32栋六楼（一户两层）是一栋没有电梯的花园洋房。
The owner's house is a 32-storey (two-storey) garden house without elevators.
老陈带着几个同事，做了一系列防护后敲开他家房门时发现，他们一大家人围坐在饭桌前，正在举杯对饮，庆祝新年的即将到来。
When Chen knocked on the door of his house after a series of protective measures with several colleagues, he found that they were sitting around the table drinking glasses to celebrate the coming New Year.
“来来来，陈经理，今晚辛苦你们了，进来喝一杯。
"Come and go, Manager Chen. It's hard for you tonight. Come in and have a drink.
” 看到老陈和同事的出现，业主笑着迎了上来。
The owner of the building greeted Chen and his colleague with a smile.
“不用客气，我们就是上来看看，顺便嘱咐几句。
"You're welcome. We'll just come up and give you a word of advice.
” 老陈麻利地套上随身携带的鞋套，扯了扯身上的一次性雨衣，侧身进到屋里。
"Old Chen neatly pulled on his shoe holster, pulled on his disposable raincoat and sidled into the house.
他抬头快速地数了数人头，发现居然有17个人之多，不仅餐厅坐了一大桌人，客厅茶几也围坐着7、8个小孩。
He looked up and quickly counted the heads. There were seventeen people, not only a large table in the dining room, but also seven or eight kids sitting on the coffee table in the living room.
“这家人胆子可真肥，这么多人聚在一起，无论如何也不能让他们再出去了。
"The family is so brave, so many people together, they can't go out again on any account.
看来只能守着他们家大门了，不然真的没法交待。
Looks like they're gonna have to keep their doors open, Or I can't really explain.
” 老陈一边暗自惊讶，一边在心里嘀咕道。
"Chen muttered to himself as he wondered.
“我现在代表小区物业管委会和社区向你们正式传达一下，根据社区的要求，你们所有人需要全部在这里隔离14天后才能出来。
"On behalf of the property management committee and the community, I would like to officially convey to you that all of you need to be isolated here for 14 days before you come out, according to the community.
我们随时会有人在门外执勤，24小时不间断，直到你们解除隔离。
We'll have people on duty outside the door 24 hours a day until you're out of quarantine.
如果需要买任何东西，我们随时为你们服务。
If you need anything to buy, we are always at your service.
所以也请你们配合我们的工作，为了大家，也为了你们自己的安全。
So please also cooperate with us in our work, for your own safety as well as for yours.
”业主一家没有反对，表示接受。
The owners did not object and accepted.
或许他们早已做好了隔离的准备，又或许是怕自己带进门的湖北亲戚引起小区其他业主不满和群愤，集合起来把他们赶出小区。
Perhaps they were ready for isolation, or they were afraid that their relatives in Hubei, who had brought them in, would cause discontent and anger among the other owners of the community and gather to drive them out of the community.
因为诸如此类的新闻这两天时有出现。
Because news like that is coming up these two days.
“既然在座的各位没有什么意见，那我们就先不打扰了。
"If you don't have any questions, let's leave them alone for a moment.
” 老陈使了使眼色走出门口，几个同事麻溜地跟了出来。
"Old Chen made a wink as he walked out of the door, and several of his colleagues came leisurely out.
“这样你们先回去，今晚我先在这。
"So you go back first. I'll be here tonight.
” 老陈对同事们说。
"Old Chen said to his colleagues.
“陈哥，你昨晚就是夜班，今天白天也没休息。
"Chen Ge, you were on night shift last night, and you didn't have a day off.
你先去安抚一下群里其它业主的情绪，看看还有什么细节需要交待和完善的，今晚我先来。
You go first to appease the rest of the group and see if there are any more details that need to be explained and improved. I'll come first tonight.
” 说话的是老陈的同事辜大哥。
It was Lao Chen's colleague, Gu Dao.
“那行，我们也不说客气话，我去和物业总经理商量一下怎么协调安排这件事情，明日来换你，这12个小时拜托了。
"Well, we don't have any kind words either. I'll go and talk with the general manager of the property about how to arrange it for you tomorrow.
” 老陈也没和辜大哥客气，因为都是特殊情况，也因为他们是好兄弟。
Old Chen wasn't polite to Gu either, because it was a special case and because they were good brothers.
“对了，一定站在门口楼梯的转角处，至少保持一米以上的距离，千万不能发生身体上的接触，随时记得带好口罩。
"By the way, stand at the corner of the doorway staircase, at least one meter away, never have physical contact, always remember to wear a mask.
” 老陈又补充了一嘴，快速地朝楼下走去。
"Old Chen added, quickly walking downstairs.
当晚，老陈就和物业总经理商量，决定继续用这个所谓最笨也最直接的办法，24小时不间断守着这户业主的大门，直到隔离解除。
That night, Lao Chen discussed with the general manager of the property and decided to continue the so-called stupidest and most direct method of keeping the owner's door open 24 hours a day until the isolation was lifted.
同时，为保险起见，对小区所有的业主负责，他们决定第二日在业主大门口安装一个实时摄像头，以便存档备份记录。
And, to be on the safe side, accountable to the owners of the neighborhood, they decided on the second day to install a live camera at the owner's gate to archive the backup records.
也许是老陈他们反应很及时，业主们在收到物业发出的跟进及计划处理信息后，质疑声很快就消下去了。
Perhaps it was Lao Chen who responded in a timely manner. The owners' questions were quickly dispelled after receiving follow-up information from the property and information on the disposal of the project.
等这些事儿都安排完后，老陈才瘫躺在椅子上长长地喘了一口气，短短几小时，他感觉有些天旋地转。
After all these things had been arranged, old Chen collapsed in his chair and took a long breath. In a few hours, he felt like a circle.
第二日一早老陈去换班时，看见门口放着一张简易的单人折叠床，一问才知道，原来是别的业主看见微信群消息后送来的。
The next morning when Chen went to change jobs, he saw a simple folding bed in front of the door. When asked, he knew that other owners had seen the message from the microphone group.
虽然他们有规定，上班执守期间只能站着，但老陈心里有一股暖流流过，那是一种无法言表的喜悦。
Although they have a rule, can only stand on duty, but there is a warm flow of old Chen's heart, that is an unspeakable joy.
其实远远不止一张单人床，后来还有业主主动送来了带靠背的凳子、电烤火炉子、水和食物等物资。
There was more than one single bed, and then the owner offered to bring supplies such as backrest stools, electric fire stoves, water and food.
初五那天夜里，正好轮到老陈在业主家门口值班，可能是由于太累，半夜一点多他倚靠着墙壁的凳子睡着了，等三点多惊醒过来，他发现自己身上披着一床很轻的空调被。
On the night of the fifth day, it was Lao Chen's turn to watch in front of the owner's house. Perhaps because he was too tired, he fell asleep at 1: 00 in the middle of the night leaning against the stool against the wall.
虽然没人主动来说，但他知道肯定是屋里好心的业主给自己披上的。
Although no one offered to say so, he knew that the well-meaning owner must have put it on him.
醒来后的老陈心里一直在琢磨，虽然那一家人在进行隔离，但他们毕竟一直处于一个不算宽敞的屋檐底下，多少都会有增加风险的可能性。
Old Chen has been thinking since waking up, although the family is isolated, but they have been in a not-so-spacious eaves, more or less increase the risk of risk.
是不是还有什么别的办法可以分散一下人员数量，帮业主规避一些风险?他越想越觉得这一大家人在一起太危险了，强挨到早上8点，便立刻打电话与上级沟通。
Is there any other way to spread the numbers around and help the owners avoid some of the risks? The more he tried to feel that this family was too dangerous to be together, he tried to reach his superiors by telephone at 8 a. m.
随后，敲开了这户业主家的家门。
Then the door of the owner's house was knocked open.
“大哥，是这样的，我们商量研究了一下，在小区东区的员工宿舍为你们单独腾出来了两间房，可以让湖北回来的五个人去那边进行隔离。
"Big Brother, let's discuss it over and let you have two separate rooms in the staff dormitory in the eastern part of the neighborhood. We can let the five people back from Hubei go there for isolation.
这样你们的空间也宽裕一些，人少一些也安全一些。
You'll also have more room, and fewer people will be safer.
” 老陈把和上级商量后的解决方案快速地告诉了来开门的业主。
"Old Chen quickly told the owner who had come to the door about the solution he had discussed with his supervisor.
“ 这样，会不会很麻烦你们。
"Well, it won't bother you very much.
” 业主听后，笑着用一只手挠了挠头。
"The owner listened and smiled and scratched his head with one hand.
“没事，您本来就是我们的业主，现在特殊情况特殊处理也是我们应该做的。
"" No, you were our landlord, and now special circumstances are what we should do.
” 老陈补充道，“不过在那边你们也依然不可以出来，我们随时随地可以为你们服务，那边门前就有摄像头，大家多多配合。
"But you still can't come out there," Chen added. "We can serve you anywhere and anytime.
”说来也巧，没一会儿，收拾好正要搬家出门的这五个人刚要下楼道，就被突然出现在五楼楼梯处的一张大桌子挡住了去路。
As it happened, the five men who were about to leave the house were about to leave the house when they were stopped by a large table which had suddenly appeared on the fifth floor at the staircase.
老陈抬头一看，是楼下的女业主和几个别栋的业主全副武装地站在桌子后面。
Old Chen looked up to see the woman owner downstairs and several individual owners standing behind the table armed.
“你们不能放他们出去，我就是不放心，还特意留意着楼上，你看，我说对了吧！这才几天就待不住了。
"You mustn't let them out, I'm just not sure, and I'm just looking upstairs. You see, I'm right! That's the last few days.
” 楼下的女业主嗔怪道。
"said the woman downstairs.
“就是，就是，谁说不是呢？这不说一套做一套吗？” 她身边的几个人随即附和道。
"Yes, that is, who said no? Isn't that a way of doing it?" Several people around her immediately echoed.
“姐，你们听我说，我们不是要放他们离开，只是楼上家里人太多了，在一起隔离始终不算安全，我们才不得已给他们几个单独找了小区的住宿，让他们去那儿。
'Listen, sister, we're not going to let them go, but we've got too many people upstairs, and it's never safe to stay together, and we've got to give them a few quarters to go there alone.
”“这也不行啊，他们这一走一路过的，万一留下病毒了可怎么办。
"" That's not right. They walked all the way, what if they left a virus behind?
” 大姐有些不依不饶了。
"My eldest sister gave way.
老陈有些无语，回头看了看身后跟着的几个人，随后有些无奈地说道：“这样吧，我们先回去，等到晚上半夜的时候，让他们再过去，我们把我们平时的装备给他们都准备上，等他们离开后，再整栋楼做二次消毒。
Old Chen was speechless, looked back at a few people following him, and then said, "Well, let's go back first and let them pass by in the middle of the night. We'll prepare our usual equipment for them, and then disinfect the whole building a second time.
”“既然都这样说了，那就这样吧。
"That being said, let it be so.
希望你们说到做到。
I hope you keep your word.
” 大姐脸上有些挂不住地说道。
'said the elder sister, with some hesitation.
就这样，业主家从湖北回来的那5个人在当天晚上11点暂时搬到了隔壁楼栋，老陈和3个同事轮岗24小时不间断守着，倒也没有什么异常。
In this way, the five people who had returned from Hubei moved to the next building at 11: 00 p. m. while Lao Chen and three of his colleagues were on 24-hour shifts.
在老陈不当值的时候，他还要负责为其他业主提供服务。
When Chen is not on duty, he is also responsible for providing services to other owners.
他笑着形容自己白天就是个送菜的“田螺姑娘”，晚上变身成为守护家门的“门神”。
He smiled and described himself as a "conch girl" during the day and a "gatekeeper" at night.
这种状态一直持续到正月十五那天，元宵节一早老陈就和同事对他们值守了14天的这个大型家庭做了解除隔离措施。
The situation lasted until the 15th day of the first month. Early in the morning, Chen and his colleagues lifted the quarantine on the big family they had been on duty for 14 days.
他觉得那日的元宵节大家都特别开心，业主一个劲儿地对他和同事表示感谢。
He felt that the Lantern Festival that day everyone was very happy. The owner thanked him and his colleagues all the same.
老陈觉得，那句“谢谢”可真甜。
Old Chen thought that "thank you" was really sweet.
4.老陈带着一种大战后胜利的喜悦过了一个元宵节，就在他觉得黎明快到时，重庆防控指挥部下达紧急通知，从2月9日开始，整个城市的各大街道小区开始实行全封闭式管理，以户为单位领取通行证，3天／1人次限时出行。
Old Chen passed the Lantern Festival with a sense of great post-war victory.Just as he thought dawn was approaching, the Chongqing Prevention and Control Command issued an emergency notice. From February 9, all the major street areas in the city began to be under full-closed control, collecting permits on a household basis and making three-day / one-hour trips.
通知出来后，小区落地执行事宜的担子再一次落到了他和同事肩上。
After the notification came out, the burden of execution fell on him and his colleagues once again.
这次政府下达的指示对老陈来说是件好事，因为终于可以依据明文规定和准则去管理整个小区，这样操作起来更加地系统和专业。
This directive from the government is a good thing for Chen, who can finally manage the entire neighborhood according to clear rules and regulations, making it more systematic and professional.
虽然他们的日常工作并没有多大的改变，但他第一次感到自己成为了一个真正的参与者，成为了站在防疫第一线的战士。
Although their daily work did not change much, but for the first time he felt like a real player, a fighter on the front line of epidemic prevention.
那种感觉让他有种回到了当年当兵的岁月，目的单纯而美好。
That feeling brought him back to his days as a soldier, simple and beautiful.
凭借之前的经验，无论是出门条发放领取还是每次车辆车次出行的例行检查，老陈都感觉没有一点压力。
Based on previous experience, Chen feels no pressure at all, whether it's getting a ticket out of the house or a routine check on every trip.
虽然现在处于半复工的状态，每天车辆进出有800人次之多，每次每人都要经过体温检测、盘查询问后才予以放行，但整个小区的业主都非常配合这一次的封闭式管理，没有爆发过一次冲突。
Although semi-operational, with up to 800 people entering and leaving the area every day, each was released after a temperature check and an inquisition, the owners of the entire neighbourhood cooperated very closely with the closed management and no conflict had broken out.
代业主买菜送货、取拿快递、每日上门为援鄂医护人员家庭做日常服务，这些也成为老陈每日工作中必备完成的事项。
For the owner of food delivery, pick up express delivery, daily door-to-door support for the daily service of medical workers in Hubei, these are also the daily work Chen must complete the matter.
他说平均每天自己要送10多趟的货物，一天光在小区里都能走上20000多步。
He says he delivers an average of more than 10 trips a day and can walk more than 20,000 steps a day in his neighborhood alone.
看着疫情数据一天一天在走向低点，看着自己守护的这5800户人家平平安安，他觉得一点都不累，甚至恍惚间感到，虽然疫情来势凶猛，但自己的心有一种拖底的安全感。
Watching the epidemic data from day to day as he watched the 5,800 homes he guarded safe and sound, he didn't feel tired at all, or even vaguely aware that, despite the ferocity of the outbreak, his heart felt a sense of insecurity.
其实老陈是心暖了。
In fact, old Chen is warm.
这期间，小区物业人员和业主之间的关系悄悄地产生一种质的变化。
During this period, the relationship between the residential property personnel and owners quietly produced a qualitative change.
在以前，10天之内平均会有10几个投诉建议电话，现在整整快一个月时间了，虽然中间有些摩擦，但一个投诉都没有。
In the past, there had been an average of a dozen complaints over the past 10 days, and now it was almost a month since there had been some friction, but not a single complaint.
而且很多热心的业主不记名地送来了几百个口罩和几十箱食物，虽然不足以扛大任，但也解燃眉，更加暖人心。
And many zealous owners anonymously sent hundreds of masks and dozens of boxes of food, although not enough to carry the big job, but also to relieve eyebrows, more warm people.
对于这次席卷全国、波及全世界的疫情来说，治疗一线肯定是在医院，但真正的防控一线也是在物业。
The first line of treatment for this epidemic, which has spread across the country and across the world, must be in hospitals, but the real line of control is in the property.
如果没有按下全国的紧急暂停键，所有居民足不出户，所有像老陈这样的物业人员全力守护的最后一公里，也没有现在渐近的明朗和希望。
If the national emergency moratorium had not been pressed, all residents would not have left their homes, and all property owners, like Lao Chen, would not have had the clarity and hope that is now approaching.
昨天夜里，重庆下了一场久违的雨，老陈说：“这种感觉就像历经了一场浩劫后的春雨，畅快淋漓。
Last night, Chongqing fell a long-term rain, Lao Chen said: "This feeling is like a disaster after the spring rain, dripping freely.
”-END-- 写 作 之 星 -卓夕琳/ 有时，你必须进入别人的世界，去发现自己的世界缺少什么。
- - - - - - - - - -
/“我故”故事练习生培养计划，详情请戳：培养计划|加入“故事创造营”，你就是未来写作之星！About us主编：鹿｜本期编辑：鹿Contact us投稿/商务合作/咨询微信后台留言or 邮箱：wmsygsdr@163.com我们是有故事的人｜华中科技大学出版社官方故事平台。
/ I Am Here Story Training Program, for details: Join Story Creation Camp, where you are the star of future writing! Deer Contacts / Business Collaboration / Consultation Letter Backstage Message or E-mail: wmsygsdr @ 163.com We are storytellers, official story platform at HUST Press.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
最后一公里的社区“守护神”。
The last kilometer of the community "patron saint."
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "我们是有故事的人";。
Var nickname = & quot; We are someone with a story & quot;;
var msg_title = "最后一公里的社区“守护神”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "真正的防疫一线在物业。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; the real front line of immunization is in the property.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="我们是有故事的人";。
Var title = & quot; We are someone with a story & quot;;
