家人疑似新冠肺炎被隔离，湖北17岁脑瘫儿独自在家6天后死亡。
A 17-year-old cerebral palsy in Hubei died at home six days later after family members were quarantined for suspected pneumonia.
我是大米。
I'm rice.
大米和小米                      。
Rice and millet.
大米和小米。
Rice and millet.
大米和小米是国内领先的自闭症谱系儿童服务平台，提供康复训练、融合教育支持、家长培训、线上课程及科普咨询等一体化服务。
Rice and millet are the leading autistic pediatric service platforms in the country, providing integrated services such as rehabilitation training, integrated education support, parent training, online courses and popular science counselling.
目前，我们已在北京、上海、广州、深圳、郑州开设线下服务机构及多所融合幼儿园，未来还将拓展至更多地区。
At present, we have established on-line services and integrated kindergartens in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Shenzhen and Zhengzhou, and will expand them to more areas in the future.
。
.
1月29日下午，湖北黄冈市农民鄢小文接到村委会通知，他17岁的大儿子鄢成刚刚死了。
YanXiao Wen, a farmer in Huanggang, Hubei Province, was notified by the village committee that his 17-year-old eldest son Yansheng had just died.
自从1月23日起，鄢小文和11岁自闭症小儿子因疫情防控被隔离，独留患有脑瘫的鄢成在家中，托付村委会照料。
Since January 23, Yan Xiaowen and her 11-year-old autistic son, isolated from control of the epidemic, have left Yan Cheng with cerebral palsy at home, entrusted to the care of a village council.
从武汉返乡被隔离鄢小文是黄冈市红安县华河镇鄢家村人，现年49岁，曾在武汉一家中学食堂当厨师，17岁的大儿子鄢成患有脑瘫，妻子在小儿子满一岁时发现次子又明显异常而崩溃自杀。
Yan Xiaowen, 49, who lives in Visayas Village, Hongan County, Huanggang City, is a 49-year-old cook in a Wuhan middle school canteen. Yansheng, 17, has cerebral palsy and her wife collapses and kills herself when her youngest son turns one year old and finds his second son apparently abnormal.
小儿子后来被确诊自闭症，鄢小文辞职带孩子干预。
The younger son was later diagnosed with autism and Yan Xiaowen resigned with the intervention of her child.
1月17日，鄢小文带着两个儿子从武汉汉口乘坐客车，回到了老家村里，准备过年。
On January 17, Yan Xiao Wen took her two sons by bus from Hankou, Wuhan, to their home village for the New Year.
脑瘫哥哥鄢成（轮椅内）和自闭症弟弟小伟据鄢小文告诉大米和小米编辑，在父子三人回家后第3天，他就发起了低烧，“以为是感冒”，就在村里的卫生室输液。
Brother Yan Cheng (wheelchair) and autism brother Xiao Wei Yan told rice and millet editors that on the third day after the father and son returned home, he developed a low fever, "thinking it was a cold," and infusion in the village clinic.
1月23日，武汉因为疫情防控“封城”的消息传到鄢家村，仍在发烧的鄢小文就成了重点观察对象。
Yan Xiaowen, still feverish, became the focus of attention on January 23 as news of the containment of the outbreak reached Visayas village.
镇卫生院经检查，认为鄢小文疑似被感染。
Town Health Institute through inspection, Yan Xiaowen is suspected to be infected.
1月24日，鄢小文和小儿子被送到了红安县集中定点收治场所——杏花乡卫生院。
On January 24, Yan Xiaowen and her youngest son were taken to a centralized treatment facility in Hongan County, the Xianghua Township Health Center.
鄢小文与另外一名疑似肺炎患者同住一间病房，没有感染症状的小儿子也和他们睡在一起。
Yan Xiaowen shares a ward with another suspected pneumonia sufferer, along with his uninfected youngest son.
“他没有床，白天就坐在旁边椅子上玩手指，晚上就睡我脚头。
"He doesn't have a bed. He sits on a chair by the side during the day and sleeps on my feet at night.
”被隔离的鄢小文和自闭症儿子小伟让鄢小文担心的，除了小儿子在隔离病房很可能会被感染，还有独自在家的大儿子鄢成。
"Yan Xiao Wen, an isolated Yan, and her autistic son, Xiao Wei, worried Yan Xiao-wen about the possibility of infection except for their youngest son, who is in the isolation ward, and her eldest son Yan Cheng, who is alone.
鄢成四肢瘫痪，需要有人喂食和全天照顾。
Yancheng is paralyzed by four limbs and requires feeding and full-time care.
为此，他向武汉心智障碍群体公益组织“蜗牛家园”求助，后者又向湖北省残联汇报此事。
To this end, he to Wuhan mental handicap group "snail home" for help, the latter reported to the Federation of Persons with Disabilities in Hubei Province.
鄢小文表示，自己和小儿子被带离家时，大儿子鄢成身体健康，无发烧等异常。
Yan Xiao Wen says her eldest son Yancheng is in good health and has no fever when she and her youngest son are taken away from home.
脑瘫儿情况变差“蜗牛家园”负责人朱文沁说，在省残联的过问下，红安当地的残联找到鄢家村村委会，请求村里给鄢成每天送一顿饭。
The condition of cerebral palsy deteriorated "snail's homeland" director Zhu Wenqin said that under the supervision of FIMITIC, the local CDPF approached the Visayas Village Council and asked the village to give Yan Cheng a daily meal.
但是，她很担心鄢成的状况，“整整5天了，孩子大小便不清理怎么过？”因鄢小文是“蜗牛家园”的骨干会员，所以朱文沁很熟悉鄢家父子，鄢成还曾在朱文沁家里住过一段时间。
But she was worried about Yan Cheng's condition, "How come her baby didn't clean up after five whole days?" Yan Yan was a key member of "Snail Home," so he was familiar with the Yangs and Sons, and Yan Cheng had lived at his home for some time.
“他除了瘫痪，还不会说话，只能喊声‘妈妈’。
"He can't talk but he's paralyzed, he can only shout 'Mommy.
”据朱文沁介绍，村委会干部告诉她，从1月23日到28日，鄢成在24日下午吃了饭，26日晚上吃了点蛋黄派，28日，则由两名村医喂了两杯氨基酸。
"From January 23 to 28, Yan Cheng Yan had dinner on the afternoon of January 24, had egg-yellow pie on the evening of 26, and two amino acids were fed by two village doctors, according to Zhu Wenqin.
村委会主任陈敬友发给志愿者的部分现场图而鄢成的二姑告诉大米和小米，1月23日，她去看望鄢成，喂了他一顿饭。
Village committee director Chen Jingyou handed out some live pictures to volunteers, while Yan Cheng's second sister-in-law told Rice and Millet that on January 23, she went to visit Yan Cheng and fed him a meal.
1月24日，她又回鄢家给侄子喂了一顿饭，还换了尿不湿。
On January 24, she returned to Yan's home to feed her nephew a meal and change his urine.
接下来的3天，因为身体不适，她就没去，再到1月28日，她又看到侄子，“情况就很差了。
For the next three days, she didn't go because she was unwell. Then, on January 28th, she saw her nephew again.
”“他躺在躺椅上，头悬空着，嘴巴和脸上都是脏东西，被子里面也是。
"" He was lying on a couch with his head dangling from his head, his mouth and face covered with dirt, and under the covers.
我带有开水，把他嘴上脸上擦干净，换了尿不湿，喂了半杯开水，他吃了小半杯米饭，就不再吃了。
I carried boiled water, wiped his face clean on his mouth, changed his urine not wet, fed half a cup of boiled water, he ate half a cup of rice, did not eat.
”鄢成的二姑说。
"Yan Cheng's second sister-in-law said.
1月28日，鄢小文在志愿者协助下曾发求助微博。
On January 28, Yan Xiaowen posted a Twitter feed with the help of volunteers.
但据医生介绍，鄢小文至今并未被确诊感染新冠肺炎。
Yan Xiaowen, however, has not been diagnosed with New Crown Pneumonia, doctors said.
村委会：孩子被抬走后死亡“鄢成走了。
Village Council: The baby was carried away and died "Yan Cheng is gone.
”今天下午15点32分，朱文沁给大米和小米编辑发来微信语音，转告了鄢成的死讯。
"At 15: 32 this afternoon, Zhu Wenqin sent a message to the editor of rice and millet, conveying the news of Yan Cheng's death.
15点40分，鄢小文在电话中证实，下午两点3分，村委会通知他鄢成去世的消息。
At 15: 40, Yan Xiaowen confirmed by telephone that at 2: 03 p.m. the village committee informed him of Yan Cheng's death.
通话中一直咳嗽的鄢小文，断断续续地表达了愿望，想尽快结束隔离，回家见孩子最后一面，处理好后事，并且他也想把儿子的遗体捐献。
coughing all the time, Yan Xiaowen interrupted her desire to end the quarantine as soon as possible, to go home to see his child one last time, to take care of the rest of the day, and to donate his son's body.
鄢小文与村委会陈主任通话截图而在今天中午12点35分左右，朱文沁还在微信上看到了华家河镇卫生院院长发来的几张照片，上面显示，两名穿着防护服的人正抬着在躺在担架里的鄢成。
Yan Xiaowen speaks to Director Chen of the village committee and at about 12: 35 noon today, Zhu Wenqin also saw on the microphone photos of two men in protective clothing carrying Yan Cheng lying in a stretcher.
朱文沁还通过鄢小文得知，村委已在县城里找了一家隔离用的酒店，要把鄢成送去集中安置，这让朱文沁连连致谢。
Zhu also learned through Yan Xiaowen that the village committee had found a secluded hotel in the county town, and Yan Cheng Yan had to be sent to a collective resettlement.
“没想到刚过两个小时，我就又收到死讯。
"I didn't expect to hear of my death more than two hours later.
”朱文沁说，这些天来，她找残联、找家长组织、找她能找的一切关系，都没有挽回鄢成的生命。
"These days, she finds FIMITIC, parent groups, and all the contacts she can find, all without saving Yan Cheng's life," he said.
“一个全身瘫痪、生活无法自理的孩子，在大冷天里怎么能撑得住？”几天来，大米和小米编辑一直试图联系鄢家村村委会相关负责人，采访鄢家三口的隔离安置问题，但截至今晚发稿前，对方一直未接听电话。
"How can a child paralyzed and unable to fend for himself survive the cold weather?" For days, editors of rice and millet have been trying to contact the leaders of the Visayas Village Council to cover the isolation of the Yanks, but as of tonight, no one had answered the phone.
鄢成到底死于何因，我们将继续关注。
We will continue to pay attention to what caused Yan Cheng's death.
Play采写|小熊当当  编辑|孙旭阳图|受访者提供。
AT & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; PLAY & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 44; & #
我是大米。
I'm rice.
她每天都在为特殊孩子家庭努力。
She works every day for families with special children.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
她每天都在为特殊孩子家庭努力。
She works every day for families with special children.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
家人疑似新冠肺炎被隔离，湖北17岁脑瘫儿独自在家6天后死亡。
A 17-year-old cerebral palsy in Hubei died at home six days later after family members were quarantined for suspected pneumonia.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "大米和小米";。
Var nickname = & quot; rice and millet & quot;;;
var msg_title = "家人疑似新冠肺炎被隔离，湖北17岁脑瘫儿独自在家6天后死亡";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "同时被隔离的是他的单亲爸爸和自闭症弟弟。
var msg _ desc = & quot; at the same time, his single father and autistic brother were separated.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="大米和小米";。
var title = & quot; rice and millet & quot;;;
