湖北17岁脑瘫儿死亡前一天，父亲多次拨打120和110求助无果。
The day before Hubei's 17-year-old cerebral palsy died, his father repeatedly called 120 and 110 for help.
我是大米。
I'm rice.
大米和小米                      。
Rice and millet.
大米和小米。
Rice and millet.
大米和小米是国内领先的自闭症谱系儿童服务平台，提供康复训练、融合教育支持、家长培训、线上课程及科普咨询等一体化服务。
Rice and millet are the leading autistic pediatric service platforms in the country, providing integrated services such as rehabilitation training, integrated education support, parent training, online courses and popular science counselling.
目前，我们已在北京、上海、广州、深圳、郑州开设线下服务机构及多所融合幼儿园，未来还将拓展至更多地区。
At present, we have established on-line services and integrated kindergartens in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Shenzhen and Zhengzhou, and will expand them to more areas in the future.
。
.
1月29日中午，湖北黄冈17岁脑瘫儿鄢成死了。
On January 29, Yansheng Yan died of 17-year-old cerebral palsy in Huanggang, Hubei Province.
晚上，他死亡的消息登上了微博热搜，引发全国关注。
In the evening, the news of his death was posted on Weibo Hot Search, attracting national attention.
同一天，因新型冠状病毒肺炎死亡的中国病例已经累计170例，共有7711人被确诊。
On the same day, 170 cases of death from coronavirus pneumonia in China have been confirmed, and a total of 7,711 people have been diagnosed.
疑似病例达12167例。
The number of suspected cases amounted to 12,167.
鄢成的单身父亲鄢小文正是这场瘟疫的疑似病例之一，并因此和患有自闭症的二子小伟被隔离在医院里治疗6天。
Yan Cheng's single father, Yan Xiaowen, was one of the suspected cases of the disease and was quarantined with her autistic son Xiao Wei for six days.
这6天，相依为命的父子失去了联系，四肢瘫痪的鄢成被单独留在家中，度过了他人生最孤独的最后6天。
The six-day period when his dependent father and son lost touch, Yansheng, crippled by four limbs, was left alone for the last six days of his life.
期间，1月26日，发烧的鄢成曾被送到医院，检查后却又被送回家中。
Meanwhile, Yan Cheng, with a fever, was taken to hospital on January 26, where she was checked and returned to her home.
最终，1月29日上午，在多方奔走呼吁下，镇长带队把鄢成送去了集中安置点。
Finally, on the morning of January 29, Yancheng was escorted by the Mayor to a collective settlement under the call of call.
但两个小时后，父亲鄢小文接到了儿子的死讯。
Two hours later, however, his father, Yan Xiaowen, received news of his son's death.
就在死前一天，被隔离在医院病房的鄢小文和他的朋友们，多次拨打红安县120和110，求他们尽快收治鄢成入院，但都无结果。
The day before his death, Yan Xiaowen and his friends, quarantined in the hospital ward, repeatedly dialed 120 and 110 in Hong'an County to hospitalize Yan Cheng as soon as possible, but to no avail.
图为生前的鄢成单亲爸爸发烧就医后被隔离死者鄢成，家住湖北红安县华家河镇鄢家村。
Photo shows Yan Cheng Yan father Yan Cheng after a fever was isolated dead Yan Cheng, home to Huajiahe County, Hubei Province Visayas Village.
他患有脑瘫，四肢瘫痪、有智力障碍，不会说话行走，生活无法自理。
He suffers from cerebral palsy, quadriplegia, mental retardation, inability to talk and walk, and inability to look after himself.
他还有一个10岁的弟弟，患有中度自闭症。
He also has a 10-year-old brother with moderate autism.
父亲鄢小文早年在食堂工作，妻子于2010年因不堪生活重负自杀后，鄢小文为了照顾孩子，辞掉工作，一家三口靠政府低保和他人救济为生，平时常住在武汉汉口的公益组织“蜗牛家园”。
Yan Xiaowen, a father who worked in the cafeteria earlier this year and whose wife committed suicide in 2010, Yan Xiaowen quit her job to take care of her children. The family of three lives on the government stipend and other handouts, usually residing at the "snail's home" in Hankou, Wuhan.
1月17日，鄢小文带着两个孩子从汉口回到老家鄢家村。
On January 17, Yan Xiaowen returned to his home village of Visayas with his two children from Hankou.
3天后，鄢小文就出现了发热症状，开始去医院打吊瓶。
Three days later, Yan Xiaowen developed fever symptoms and began to go to the hospital to bottle her.
1月22日，在华家河镇卫生院就诊的鄢小文被认为怀疑新冠肺炎，需要留院隔离观察。
On January 22, Yan Xiaowen, attending the Huajiahe Hospital, was found to be suspicious of pneumonia and needed to be hospitalized for observation.
第二天上午，鄢小文被卫生院的车接走一去不返，同行的小儿子小伟虽无症状，也按“密切接触者”隔离规定，被留在同一个病房接受观察，但由于哥哥鄢成没有自主行动能力，加上没有异常症状，卫生院床位紧张等情况，因此被独自留在家中隔离。
The next morning, Yan Xiaowen was picked up by the hospital bus and kept in the same ward, asymptomatic, under the quarantine of "close contacts," but Yancheng was left alone in solitary confinement because of his brother Yancheng's inability to move autonomously and the absence of abnormal symptoms and tight hospital beds.
隔离中的鄢小文很焦灼鄢成的状况，打电话求二姐鄢继荣去照顾鄢成。
Yan Xiao Wen in isolation is worried about Yan Cheng's condition. She calls her sister Yan Jirong to take care of Yan Cheng.
同时，鄢小文还把情况，告知了“蜗牛家园”负责人朱文沁，后者又通过家长组织渠道向湖北省残联汇报。
Meanwhile, Yan Xiaowen also informed the "snail's home" official Zhu Wenqin, who in turn reported to the FIMITIC of Hubei Province through parent organization channels.
据红安县华家河镇官方后来提供的情况说明显示：鄢小文在入院后，曾打电话向村干部鄢东华求助，鄢东华则建议鄢小文先找自家的亲戚照料鄢成。
Yan Xiao Wen Yan called Visayas Eastern China after admission to hospital to seek help from Visayas Eastern Province, while Yan Xiao-wen advised Yan Xiao-wen to find relatives to care for Yan Cheng, according to an information note later provided by officials in Huajiahe town, Hongan County.
除夕，两个照顾鄢成的人1月24日，鄢小文在医院被隔离的第二天，鄢小文和鄢小伟被转移到了红安县定点的隔离场所杏花乡卫生院。
On New Year's Eve, two people caring for Yan Cheng Yan were transferred to the Yanhua Township Health Center, a designated seclusion in Hongan County, the day after Yan Xiaowen was quarantined at the hospital.
这一天，待在家里的鄢成吃了两顿饭。
One day Yan Cheng at home ate two meals.
一顿是二姑鄢继荣喂的，一顿是镇卫生院一位名叫金辉的工作人员喂的。
A meal is fed by Yan Rong, a member of the staff called Jinhui from the Town Health Center.
这一天，鄢家村村委会主任陈敬友、村副职干部鄢东华、刘金洲等村干部、村医熊天明、二姑鄢继荣，都陆续来看过鄢成。
On this day, Yan Ji-wing, director of the Visayas Village Committee, deputy village officials such as Eastern China and Liu Jinzhou, village medical bear Tian Ming and Eryu Yan Jirong have all come to Yan Cheng.
据鄢继荣向大米和小米介绍，她当时给鄢成喂了一顿饭，还换了尿不湿。
Yan Jirong introduced Yan to rice and millet, when she fed Yan Cheng a meal and changed her urine.
据镇政府提供的情况说明，当时村干部一行探视鄢成时，带着橘子、饼干等食物，还为他测量体温，37摄氏度。
According to information provided by the township government, Yancheng was visited by a group of village officials who brought oranges and biscuits and took his temperature 37 degrees Celsius.
第二天，大年初一，鄢继荣因身体不适，没再去照顾侄子。
The next day, Yan Jirong did not take care of her nephew because he was unwell.
鄢成的鼠年第一天有没有吃过饭，换过尿裤，成为一个谜。
The first day of the Year of the Rat by Yan Cheng has been a mystery.
据官方的情况说明，村委当时安排村医熊天明当天晚上就去照料鄢成的生活。
According to official sources, the village committee arranged for Yansheng to be taken care of by Yan Ming that evening.
但因为没有防护衣物，担心被感染的熊天明并未同意。
But because there was no protective clothing, Xiong Tianming, who feared being infected, did not agree.
在杏花乡卫生院，一天都没有收到孩子讯息的鄢小文，反复给村委会主任陈敬友打电话。
Yan Xiaowen, who did not receive a message from her children, repeatedly telephoned Chen Jingyou, the village committee chief, at the apricot township clinic.
在武汉的朱文沁也继续打电话向残联求助。
In Wuhan Zhu Wenqin also continued to call the FIMITIC for help.
鄢成发烧了1月26日上午，朱文沁从村委会主任陈敬友处得知，鄢成有点低烧。
Yan Cheng Yan had a fever on January 26 morning. Bentham learned from Chen Jingyou, the director of the village committee, that Yan Cheng had a slight fever.
据官方情况说明透露，当日下午4：30，华家河镇卫生院护士向花荣曾去给鄢成喂食、测体温。
According to an official statement, at 4: 30 p.m., Huaorong, a nurse at the Huajiahe Hospital, went to Yan Cheng to take a temperature test.
下午6时左右，镇卫生工作人员向上级反映鄢成体温偏高。
At about 6 p.m., town health workers complained to their superiors about Yan Cheng's hyperthermia.
晚上9时左右，镇卫生院院长陶卫波，村主任陈敬友等人去看望鄢成，为他测量体温，发现鄢成发烧后，便立即送往镇卫生院进行量体温、验血、拍片等检查。
At about 9 p.m., Director of Town Health Hospital Tao Weibo and village director Chen Jingyou went to Yan Cheng to take his temperature. When Yan Cheng became feverish, they immediately sent Yan Cheng to the Town Health Center for temperature measurement, blood testing and photographing.
其间，朱文沁与陈敬友两次通话了解情况，并请求将鄢成留在医院。
During that time, Zhu Wenqin and Chen Jingyou called twice to find out the situation and requested Yan Cheng to stay in the hospital.
图为1月26日晚上鄢成在镇卫生院检查的心电图但“镇医院根据检查结果，认为鄢成不构成留院观察的条件”，鄢小文所在的医院也因鄢成大小便不能自理、怕造成更多传染而拒绝其入院。
Photo shows an electrocardiogram (ECG) examined by Yan Cheng at the Town Health Hospital on the evening of January 26. "Yan Cheng, according to findings, is not considered a condition for hospitalization." Yan Xiaowen's hospital also refused admission because Yan Cheng couldn't take care of himself and was afraid of causing more infections.
当晚10时左右，鄢成重新被送回家中。
At about 10 p.m. Yan Cheng was returned to her home.
就这样，鄢成错过了被医院收治的机会。
In this way Yan Cheng missed the chance to be admitted to hospital.
1月27日，与父亲分别后第五日，鄢成的护理问题仍未解决。
On January 27, five days after separation from his father, Yan Cheng's nursing problems remained unresolved.
心智障碍者家长组织网络理事长戴榕将此事紧急汇报给了中国残联、湖北省各级残联、中国精协、中国智协等单位组织，并组建“援助湖北红安鄢爸”微信群，试图会同多方力量，解决鄢成的安置护理问题。
The Chairman of the Network of Parent Organizations of Mentally Handicapped Persons Dai Yong reported the matter urgently to CDPF, FIMITIC in Hubei Province, the China Association of Excellence and the China Association of Thought, and formed a micro-faith group called "Assistance to Red'an Yan Pa Hubei" to try to solve Yan Cheng's resettlement care problems.
同时，据官方的情况说明显示，当天上午，华河镇镇长召集残联、民政、村委会等相关人员研究部署了鄢成的照料工作，镇卫生院负责鄢成的诊疗，村委会安排专人看护，并为看护人员申请一套防护服。
Meanwhile, according to an official statement, the mayor of Huahe Town called together disabled people, civil affairs and village committees to study and deploy Yan Cheng's care work. The township hospital was in charge of Yan Cheng's medical treatment.
县残联还为鄢成送去1000元慰问金和纸尿裤等用品。
The FIMITIC also sent Yancheng supplies of 1,000 yuan in comfort and diapers.
下午，鄢小文联系陈敬友询问护理人员安排进展，陈敬友表示花钱也找不到护理人员，没有防护服风险太大。
In the afternoon, Yan Xiaowen contacted Chen Jingyou to ask nursing staff about the arrangement. Chen said he could not find paramedics for his money.
曾来照料过鄢成的二姑鄢继荣也因仍在打针，无法前去。
Yan Jirong, a second-in-law who once cared for Yan Cheng, was also unable to go because she was still receiving stitches.
直到晚上7时30分，陈敬友才通知鄢小文，护理人员已找到。
It was not until 7: 30 p.m. that Chen Jingyou informed Yan Xiaowen that paramedics had been located.
感到有些安心的鄢小文，在微博发出一封求助信，想为护理人员求助一套防护服。
Feeling a little relieved, Yan Xiaowen sends out a cover letter on Weibo seeking help from a paramedic.
截至当晚12时，鄢小文等人都不知道当天是否有人给鄢成喂过东西。
By 12 o'clock that evening, Yan Xiaowen and others did not know if anyone had fed Yan Cheng that day.
但华家河镇政府后来出具的情况表示，当日下午，村医熊天明及其老公一起给鄢成测了体温、喂了食。
But the Huajiahe Township government later issued a statement saying that in the afternoon, Village Medical Bear Tianming and her husband together took temperature and fed Yan Cheng.
多次120，多次1101月28日，时隔3天，二姑鄢继荣去了鄢成家。
Many times 120, many times 1101 28, three days apart, Second Sister Yan Jirong went to the Visayas to start a family.
同行的是村医熊天明。
Accompanied by the village medical bear Tianming.
因为没有足够的防护服，鄢继荣戴着口罩与橡胶手套进入屋内。
Fyan entered the house wearing a mask and rubber gloves because he did not have enough protective clothing.
“一进来就看到鄢成头垂在床边，身上脸上都有呕吐物，被褥湿透。
"" Upon entering, Yancheng was seen hanging by the bed with vomit on his face and soaking sheets.
”鄢继荣说，鄢成看到她进来，嘴里“啊啊啊”地叫着。
"Yan Jirong says Yan Cheng sees her coming in, screaming," Aha!
在帮鄢成护理换洗的过程中，她发现鄢成身体有些凉，后来喂粥时，鄢成只吃了两口。
As she helped Yan Cheng change hands, she noticed that Yan Cheng was a bit cold. Later, when she was fed porridge, Yan Cheng ate only two.
鄢继荣感觉不对劲，随即将情况告知鄢小文。
Yan Jirong feels something is wrong and tells Yan Xiaowen accordingly.
当日下午到晚上，鄢小文、朱文沁和“蜗牛家园”另一家长暖妈，多次拨打红安县的120和110，后两者均以“不是急救病人”、“已反馈上级”、“需要村里报警”、“没有监护人”等各种理由，拒绝接鄢成入院。
That afternoon and evening, Yan Xiaowen, Zhu Wenqin, and another parent of "Snail Home" warmed Ma by calling 120 and 110 from Hongan County, both of which refused Yansheng admission for various reasons, including "Not First Aid Patient," "Feedback to superiors," "Need village police," "No Guardian."
暖妈也致电村主任陈敬友，请他报警求助，陈敬友给出的反馈是，“没有来，没处收。
Warm mother also called village director Chen Jingyou, ask him to call the police for help, Chen Jingyou gave feedback is, "No come, no place to close.
”图为暖妈的通话截图根据官方情况说明和鄢继荣的讲述，1月28日中午，鄢继荣给鄢成喂了一顿饭，下午3时半和晚上9时，村委会主任陈敬友两次带领护理人员上门，给鄢成喂了两杯氨基酸，因为华家河镇卫生院院长说氨基酸兑热水可以缓解鄢成的呕吐。
Yan Jirong Yan Ji-rong fed Yan Cheng a meal at 3: 30 p.m. and 9: 00 p.m. on January 28. Leading paramedics, Chen Jingyou twice brought two amino acids to Yansheng, because the director of the Huajiahe Hospital said amino acids with hot water can ease vomiting by Yan Cheng.
陈敬友在微信上，一次给暖妈发了两张照片，还有一次与暖妈视频聊天。
Chen Jingyou in the micro-letter, a warm mother sent two photos, and a warm mother video chat.
“这两次，我都没看到鄢成的面部表情，也没有获知他的体温和精神状况。
"On both occasions, I didn't see Yan Cheng's face, nor did I know his temperature or his mental state.
”暖妈说。
"said the warm mother.
而华家河镇官方的情况说明显示，陈敬友等人给鄢成测量过体温，看到鄢成“状态尚可”。
Yancheng was seen by Yan Cheng as "in good condition," according to an official statement from the town of Hua Jiahe.
这天晚上，中精协主席温洪和鄢小文同时收到消息——明日鄢成可以送到当地指定的疑似人员隔离安置点，由华家河镇医院负责安排照顾。
That evening, Chinese President Wen Hong and Yan Xiaowen received word that Yancheng could be sent to a designated local quarantined site tomorrow to be cared for by the Huagahe Hospital.
死于隔离点1月29日上午11时，一直介入此事的戴榕，给大米和小米编辑发来信息，“目前孩子体温正常，已送新床单棉被纸尿裤，镇政府由镇长带头组成了照顾小组，保证每天会有人看望和照顾孩子。
Died in isolation January 29 11: 00 a.m., has been involved in this matter, sent a message to the rice and millet editors, "the child temperature is normal, has sent new bedspread quilted diapers, the township government led by the mayor formed a care group, to ensure that daily visits and care for children.
”11点30分左右，华家河镇卫生院派车将鄢成接往集中观察点。
At about 11: 30, Yancheng was directed by a vehicle from the Huajiahe Town Health Center to a concentrated observation point.
转移的过程，村干部还拍照发给鄢小文。
During the transfer process, village officials also photographed Yan Xiaowen.
为鄢成组织的救护微信群里，响起一片欢呼和感激声。
There was a shout of joy and gratitude as Yan Cheng organized the ambulance chorus.
这些为鄢成奔走6日的全国心智障碍群体热心家长们，终于迎来了曙光。
These parents, eager parents of the nation's mental-disability community, Yancheng's sixth day of activism, have finally dawned.
“鄢成得救了。
"Yan Cheng is saved.
”然而，两个半小时后，鄢小文却接到村委会的电话——鄢成死了。
Two and a half hours later, however, Yan Xiaowen received a call from the village council, Yan Cheng dead.
根据官方的情况说明，1月29日12时30分许，医护人员发现鄢成呼吸停止、瞳孔放大、无脉搏和心跳，现场判定鄢成死亡。
According to official accounts, at about 12.30 p.m. on 29 January, medical staff discovered Yan Cheng breathing stopped, miosis, no pulse or heartbeat, and Yan Cheng was judged dead at the scene.
直到1月31日晚，鄢小文等人仍未被告知鄢成的死因，他和其他亲属，也没有接到官方尸体解剖的通知。
By the evening of January 31, Yan Xiaowen and others had still not been informed of Yan Cheng's death, nor had he or any other relatives been notified of the official autopsy.
官方要求尽快火化遗体鄢成死后，鄢小文向医院和村委提出，想立即出院回来见孩子最后一面。
Officials requested that the body be cremated as soon as possible. Yan Xiao Wen asked the hospital and village committee to return home to see the child one last time.
但未获同意。
This was not agreed.
1月30日，红安县残联康复部主任刘长安、华家河镇党委书记汪宝权、华家河镇民政办张建主任，到卫生院看望鄢小文，提出希望把鄢成的尸体火化。
On January 30, Liu Changan, Director of Rehabilitation Department of CDPF of Hong'an County, Wang Baoquan, Secretary of the Party Committee of Huajiahe Township, and Zhang Jian, Director of the District Administration of Huajiahe Township, visited Yan Xiaowen at the Health Center, offering to cremate Yan Cheng's body.
“他们三人穿着防护服，带着护目镜和N95口罩，表示‘这是按照国家对疫情防控的指示和规定’”。
"The three of them were wearing protective clothing, goggles and N95 masks, saying, 'This is in accordance with the State's instructions and regulations on epidemic prevention and control'.
鄢小文说，他“迫于压力”，出具了一份委托书，委托鄢成的舅舅火化孩子遗体。
Yan Xiaowen said he was "under pressure" to issue a power of attorney to Yan Cheng's uncle to cremate the child's body.
图为鄢小文称自己被迫签的委托书但很快，在朋友的提醒下，鄢小文通过媒体宣布撤回这份委托书，并重新发出新的委托，希望找一个委托人，帮他做两件事情：1.代为向医院领取鄢成的病历，调取、复制医疗记录，收取死亡证明。
Flanked by his friends, Yan Xiaowen announces the revocation of the power of attorney and issues a new one, hoping to find a client to do two things for him: 1. Obtain Yansheng's chart from a hospital, retrieve and duplicate medical records, and collect death certificates.
2.本人自愿将鄢成的全部遗体及器官进行捐赠。
2. I volunteered to donate the body and organs of Yan Cheng.
若无法进行遗体捐赠，需等调查组调查结果出来后，再视情况处理。
If the donation of remains is not possible, the investigation team will have to wait until the results of the investigation are available.
当天下午，湖北省红安县官方融媒体中心“最红安”公众号发布最新疫情，确认鄢小文为新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎患者，并表示官方已成立调查组，调查鄢成死亡一事。
In the afternoon, the official financial media center in Hongan County, Hubei Province, released the latest outbreak of the disease, confirming Yan Xiaowen as a pneumonia patient infected with the new coronavirus, and said an official investigation team had been set up to investigate Yan Cheng's death.
据黄冈日报报道，1月30日，黄岗市委书记刘雪荣约谈红安县等下属领导时指出，对疫情防控责任落实不力的单位和个人，要该处分的坚决处分，该撤职的坚决撤职。
On January 30, Liu Xueyong, secretary of the Huanggang Municipal Party, interviewed leaders of Hongan county and other subordinates, saying that units and individuals who have failed to fulfill their responsibilities for disease prevention and control should be firmly punished with the dismissal.
1月31日，民政部相关负责人回应鄢成死亡一事时称，相关文件已提出更加明确的要求，对有成员接受隔离治疗的家庭加强关心帮扶。
On 31 January, in response to the death of Yan Cheng, the head of the Department of Civil Affairs stated that the relevant documents had made clearer the requirements for greater care for families with members undergoing seclusion.
儿子是死于病毒感染、还是另有原因？如果儿子被及时送来就医，是否能逃过一死？在病房里的新型冠状病毒肺炎患者鄢小文，围绕在心中的疑惑仍然没有答案。
Can a son survive a viral infection or another cause? If his son is brought to the hospital in time to seek medical attention, the doubts surrounding Yan Xiaowen, a patient with the new coronavirus pneumonia in the ward, remain unanswered.
截至这一天，全国累计共有9692例被确诊新冠肺炎，累计死亡者达213例，共有疑似病例15238例、密切接触者102427人正在接受隔离医学观察。
By that date, a total of 9,692 cases of newly diagnosed pneumonia had been diagnosed, with a total of 213 deaths, and a total of 15,238 suspected cases and 102,427 close contacts were under quarantine medical observation.
-完-采写|当当小熊春桃 编辑|孙旭阳。
A: When Dang Xiong Chuntao, its editor and friend, Sun Xuyang.
我是大米。
I'm rice.
她每天都在为特殊孩子家庭努力。
She works every day for families with special children.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
她每天都在为特殊孩子家庭努力。
She works every day for families with special children.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
湖北17岁脑瘫儿死亡前一天，父亲多次拨打120和110求助无果。
The day before Hubei's 17-year-old cerebral palsy died, his father repeatedly called 120 and 110 for help.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "大米和小米";。
Var nickname = & quot; rice and millet & quot;;;
var msg_title = "湖北17岁脑瘫儿死亡前一天，父亲多次拨打120和110求助无果";。
var msg _ title = & quot; the day before Hubei's 17-year-old cerebral palsy died, his father repeatedly called 120 and 110 for help.
var msg_desc = "死者父亲被确诊为新冠肺炎病例，官方要求其尽快火化死者遗体。
var msg _ desc = & quot; The deceased's father was diagnosed with New Crown Pneumonia and was asked to have his body cremated as soon as possible.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="大米和小米";。
var title = & quot; rice and millet & quot;;;
