拒绝撤离武汉的老外：我经历了魔幻的30天。
Refusing to evacuate a foreigner in Wuhan: I went through 30 days of magic.
点击右边星标。
Click the star on the right.
一条                      。
One article.
一条。
One article.
每天一条原创短视频，每天讲述一个动人的故事，每天精选人间美物，每天来和我一起过美好的生活。
Every day an original short video, tell a moving story every day, select the best things in the world, and come and live a good life with me every day.
。
.
武汉封城后，美国、日本、澳大利亚等国，纷纷派机撤侨。
Wuhan after the closure of the United States, Japan, Australia and other countries have sent planes to evacuate overseas Chinese.
谁走、谁留？困扰着武汉的国际家庭。
Who goes and who stays? The international family that bedevils Wuhan.
不少家庭选择让一方带着孩子离开，也有不少选择全家留下。
Many families choose to let one of them leave with their children, and many choose to stay with their families.
一名常住武汉的法籍医生说，“疫情期间，我在武汉能做的比在法国多。
"During the outbreak, I was able to do more in Wuhan than in France," said a French doctor who usually lives in Wuhan.
”而另一位日籍教授的回应，在网上广为流传：“我的研究室里还有中国学生，我无法抛下我的同事和学生逃回日本。
Another Japanese professor responded, circulating widely online: "There are Chinese students in my research room, and I can't escape from my colleagues and students back to Japan.
”不论是离开还是留下的人，都在脆弱与温情中坚持着。
No matter who leaves or stays, all insist on vulnerability and tenderness.
武汉国际家庭 左：晓宇一家 右：Fred和妻子一条和两个做出不同选择的武汉国际家庭，进行了一次深谈。
Wuhan International Family Left: The Xiaoyu Family Right: Fred had a deep talk with his wife and two Wuhan international families who had made different choices.
在武汉的外国人面对哪些独特困境？撤侨到底需经历哪些过程，存在哪些问题？那一个个武汉国际家庭，现在怎么样了？自述晓宇 Fred编辑叶荔潇钺Fred的店开在黎黄陂路上，在武汉小有名气1月23日，武汉封城当天，回爸妈家过春节的晓宇，让英德双国籍的妻子安娜，联系大使馆问问情况。
What are the unique difficulties faced by foreigners in Wuhan? What are the processes and problems involved in evacuating overseas Chinese? How about the international families in Wuhan?
同时另一边在黎黄陂路上，在武汉生活了10年的法国人Fred，已提前把自己的3家小店打烊，并打电话给中国岳父母解释：“今年的年夜饭不能在一起吃了，你们老人家也不要出门乱跑。
Fred, a Frenchman who has lived in Wuhan for 10 years on the other side of the road, closed his three stores earlier and called his Chinese parents-in-law to explain: "You can't eat together for New Year's Eve.
”一位回武汉探亲的澳洲华人摄于去武汉天河机场的路上在湖北，外国籍常住人口有1.8万，80%集中在武汉。
An Australian Chinese returning to Wuhan to visit her family on the way to Wuhan Tianhe Airport is in Hubei Province.
都说每一个数字背后，是一个鲜活的人；而每一个人背后，可能牵动着一整个家庭。
They say that behind each number is a living person; behind each person, there may be a whole family involved.
1月23日武汉封城后，往返武汉与世界各地的航班停飞。
Wuhan on January 23 after the closure of the city, between Wuhan and the rest of the world flights stopped.
疫情风暴中的外国人面临和当地人一样的日常难题：失去公共交通后，购买物资变得很难；儿童和老人需要更多的照顾；本身就有疾病的人无法去医院；有的人本打算春节假期完了就回去工作。
Foreigners in the storm face the same day-to-day challenges as locals: the loss of public transport makes it difficult to buy supplies; children and the elderly need more care; people with their own illnesses cannot go to the hospital; and some plan to return to work after the Spring Festival.
此外，他们很可能还多一个问题：中文不够好，不能第一时间获取并理解疫情信息。
In addition, they are likely to have one more problem: the Chinese language is not good enough to get and understand the epidemic information in the first place.
于是，许多人开始向大使馆求助。
As a result, many people turned to the embassy for help.
综合各媒体报道，截至2月22日各国撤侨人数统计撤侨面前，离开和留下都是一种选择，这种选择不仅关乎个人。
Synthesis of media reports, as of February 22, the number of evacuees in various countries statistics, leaving and staying in front of the overseas Chinese is an option, this choice is not only about individuals.
一旦去留涉及到一个家庭，问题就更为复杂。
Once the removal involves a family, the problem is even more complex.
晓宇和他的跨国家庭，匆乱之中、压力之下，选择让妻子带着孩子离开；而Fred和妻子，思前想后，决定一家人一起留下。
Xiao Yu and his international family, in a hurry and under pressure, chose to let his wife leave with their children; Fred and his wife, thinking it over, decided to stay together.
我们与这两个做出不同选择的家庭，进行了一次深谈。
We had an in-depth discussion with these two families who had made a different choice.
他们的诸多经历，也映射了武汉乃至湖北的整个外国人和国际家庭群体，在这次疫情中的困境与应对。
Their many experiences, also map Wuhan and even Hubei entire foreigners and international family groups, in this epidemic situation and response.
讲述者晓宇家庭成员妻子安娜（英德双国籍）儿子3岁父母、姥姥都是武汉人现状妻子带着孩子离开自己与父母、姥姥在武汉自我隔离刚逃离澳洲大火，又陷入武汉疫情我和夫人安娜，从2014年起在牛津居住。
Narrator xiao yu family wife Anna, 3-year-old parents, grandparents are Wuhan status quo wife and children left themselves with their parents, grandma in Wuhan just escaped the fire in Australia, and then into an epidemic situation in Wuhan My wife Anna and I have lived in Oxford since 2014.
我攻读牛津大学政治学的博士学位，安娜在大学工作，研究东亚传统音乐，她是英德的双国籍。
I am doing my doctorate in political science at Oxford University. Anna works in a university studying traditional East Asian music.
半年前，我们从英国搬到澳洲。
We moved to Australia from England six months ago.
回武汉是春节过年回家，但比计划得早，我们一月初回来了，逃离澳洲大火。
Back to Wuhan is the Spring Festival coming home, but earlier than planned, we returned in early January to escape the Australian fire.
1月23日武汉的对外交通停止后，我就开始督促安娜联系大使馆，希望她把孩子带出去。
When traffic stopped outside Wuhan on January 23, I began urging Anna to contact the embassy in hopes that she would take the baby out.
一开始，她没当作急事，只登记了信息。
At first, she registered only the information as a matter of urgency.
她异常镇定，比我们逆来顺受，说没关系，从十二月逃到现在，“我已视作常态”。
She was unusually calm, more submissive than we were, and said that it was okay to flee from December to the present, "I've come to think of it as normal."
1月25日（大年初一）雨夜，武汉封城第三天，一家开车出来加油，到大年初二就出了加油限制安娜的焦虑始于大年初二（1月26日），广西两岁的小孩确诊。
January 25 (New Year's Day) rainy night, Wuhan sealing the third day, a car came out to refuel, to the second day of the New Year to limit Anna's anxiety began on January 26 (January 26), Guangxi two-year-old children diagnosed.
我们的孩子还没到三岁。
Our child is not three years old.
此前，我们口中说，不会传染小孩，给彼此心里安慰，谁都不敢确信。
Before that, we said in our mouths that we would not infect children, comfort one another in the heart, and no one was sure.
病毒终究打破了年龄的界限。
The virus has finally broken the age limit.
而孩子的词汇日益见长，在澳洲学会“大火”，在武汉学会了“咳嗽”和“口罩”。
But the child's vocabulary is getting longer, in Australia learned "fire", in Wuhan learned "cough" and "mask."
1月26日，日经新闻报道了日本、美国两个国家准备从武汉接回本国公民；1月31日BBC报道英国撤侨航班抵达谁走、谁留，家中开始一场无休止的讨论1月27日，英国启动了撤侨的计划，安娜打电话录入身份信息和联系方式。
Japan and the United States are preparing to take back their citizens from Wuhan, the daily newspaper reported on Jan. 31. The BBC reported on January 31 that an interminable discussion had begun at home over the arrival and stay of British evacuees.
她说，我把你的信息写进去了，他们说家人可以一起走。
'I wrote your message in, 'she says.' They said the family could go together. '
我说，安娜，如果你们能走，我会留下来。
I said, Anna, if you can go, I'll stay.
我父母、姥姥，还在。
My parents, grandma, are still here.
年轻人最有可能扛过病毒，我要留下来，直到封锁结束。
Young people are most likely to carry the virus, and I'll stay until the blockade is over.
安娜说，我能理解。
Anna said, I understand.
家里开始一场无休止的讨论。
The family began an endless discussion.
父亲说：“能走一个是一个，你留下来，能干什么？”我说：“我要蹭长假期。
My father said, "One can walk, one can stay, what can you do?" I said, "I'm going to have a long vacation.
”母亲问：“你留下来到底有什么目的。
"My mother asked," What on earth did you want to stay for?
”父亲答：“他不想被人说是逃兵。
"The father replied:" He does not want to be called a deserter.
”1月28日，德国派军机来的请求被拒。
On January 28, requests for German military aircraft were denied.
连着两天，安娜挂在嘴边的话是，法国人居然做到了。
For two days Anna put it on her lips that the French had done it.
她如何也不能相信，自己的两个祖国落后了邻国。
She could not believe that her two homelands were lagging behind her neighbours.
她终日在房间里打电话、发邮件，不放过一条小道消息。
She made phone calls and e-mails all day in her room, spying on gossip.
她远在欧洲的父母也已俨然生活在中国的时区。
Her parents in Europe have come to live in time zones in China.
1月31日，多家媒体援引德国外长Heiko Maas，报道德国将派包机从武汉撤侨终于， 一家人看《别告诉她》时，坐在椅子上的安娜突然立起，我们等她的宣告。
On January 31, German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas was quoted in several media as reporting that Germany was sending chartered planes to evacuate overseas Chinese from Wuhan. Finally, as the family watched "Don't tell her," Anna stood up in her chair and waited for her announcement.
“德国人要来了”，她说，“但是，我们要被强制隔离两周。
"The Germans are coming," she said. "But we're going to be held in enforced isolation for two weeks.
”麻烦不止于此，离开的人要经过医学检查，有症状则不能走。
Trouble doesn't stop there; people who leave have to go through a medical examination, and those who do can't go away.
没有说孩子和家眷可否同行。
There was no suggestion that the children and their families could travel.
英国撤侨飞机想在1月29号起飞，在机场被困两天，争论的焦点是孩子与家属问题。
British evacuees want to take off from the airport on January 29 and are stranded at the airport for two days, with the children and families at the center of the dispute.
在家中，母亲把大人的口罩改成儿童用，向内折，用线缝上。
At home, the mother of adults into a mask for children, fold inward, sew with thread.
父亲找开车去机场的上报机构。
Father approached the reporting agency that drove to the airport.
安娜不情愿地签下了强制隔离的同意书。
Anna reluctantly signed the consent form for compulsory isolation.
我为隔离期间准备儿童电影。
I prepared a children's film for the quarantine.
孩子惊奇地发现，我们在为出行准备大量日常限额的饼干和电影。
The child was surprised to find that we were preparing a large amount of daily ration of biscuits and movies for the trip.
我说，这是中国新年，还没有过完。
I said, this is Chinese New Year, has not finished.
1月31日夜晚，晓宇全家前往机场临行前没有人知道要在机场等多久，我们也没有过多的告别一月的最后一个夜晚，我们出发了。
On the night of January 31, before the family left for the airport, no one knew how long to wait at the airport, nor did we have much time to say goodbye to the last night of January.
德国飞机抵达的时间临时提前一天，要求我们八点前到机场。
The German plane arrived one day early and asked us to arrive at the airport by eight o'clock.
红绿灯时遇到飙车的摩托，一左一右，在空旷的大路上疾驰。
When the traffic lights encountered the motorcycle racing, left and right, in the open road to gallop.
手持名单的检查员在机场收费站，确认后再过军队的岗。
Checkers with the list are checked out at airport toll gates before passing the army post.
机场门口的防爆检测变成了体温测试。
The blast test at the airport gate turned into a temperature test.
出发大厅里有韩国人、印度人、孟加拉人、斯里兰卡人、土耳其人、德国人。
The departure hall contains Koreans, Indians, Bangladeshis, Sri Lankans, Turks and Germans.
三名德国官员出现，穿橙色马甲。
Three German officials showed up wearing orange vest.
他们不知从哪里弄来一张中式的木桌，两把椅子。
They got a Chinese wooden table and two chairs from nowhere.
从包里，掏出德国国旗放在桌角，开始登记。
From the bag, he took out the German flag and put it in the corner of the table.
多亏英国人前面的拉锯，孩子、家属今天都可以上飞机。
Thanks to the pull saw in front of the British, children and family can board the plane today.
我们心中卸下了一块石，但是没有人知道要等多久。
A stone was unloaded from our hearts, but no one knew how long it would take.
1月31日深夜的武汉天河国际机场航站楼内时间从八点到了十一点，孩子在机场跑乏，也不愿再戴口罩。
Late at night on January 31, Wuhan Tianhe International Airport terminal time from 8 to 11 o'clock, the children ran tired in the airport, also unwilling to wear masks.
我把他抱到车上睡觉，远离机场人群。
I picked him up in the car and slept away from the airport crowd.
他非让我抱他在前座睡。
He made me sleep in the front seat.
过了午夜，我的手臂麻了，也困得睡去，直到手机响起。
After midnight, my arm numb, also sleepy go to sleep, until the cell phone rings.
凌晨三点半，没有一点进展。
At 3: 30 in the morning, no progress.
机场冷飕飕的。
It's chilly at the airport.
起初防护严密的人群，这时候被击垮，他们摘下口罩和手套，敞开地吃零食和泡面。
At first the heavily protected crowd was crushed. They took off their masks and gloves and ate snacks and noodles.
又这样过了两个小时，我们把行李登记，开始排队体检。
After another two hours, we checked in our luggage and began queuing for a check-up.
安娜怀中的孩子，穿着红色的袄子，像一团火，睁开眼睛说：“回家，爷爷奶奶家。
The child in Anna's arms, dressed in a red coat, was like a fire. She opened her eyes and said, "Go home, Grandma and Grandpa.
”我们没人搭话。
"No one answered.
我说，“这次不陪你和妈妈了，要是妈妈不让你看佩奇，你打电话给我。
I said, "I'm not with you and Mom this time. If Mom doesn't let you see Page, you call me.
”他说，一起走。
'he said, going with him.
行事匆忙，我们都没顾得上给他打要分离的预防针。
We were in such a hurry that we didn't care enough to give him the shot of separation.
我们没有过多的告别，两天没怎么休息，口干舌燥、头昏脑胀。
We did not have too much farewell, two days of little rest, dry mouth, dizziness.
他们消失在白色和黄色防护服的身影里。
They disappeared in white and yellow protective clothing.
飞机第二天早上九点才起飞。
The plane didn't take off until nine the next morning.
德国盖姆斯海姆军营隔离区外景离开后的隔离：每个家庭成员压力大，孩子尤其煎熬现在，我们保持每天的视频聊天，包括和夫人的父母，他们比我们更焦虑。
Segregation following the departure of the exclusion zone from the Gemsheim barracks in Germany: Each family member is stressed and the children are particularly suffering. Now, we maintain daily video chats, including with my wife's parents, who are more anxious than we are.
德国的隔离政策是：每天检查，如果在一百多名隔离的乘客里发现新的感染者，隔离时间就要重新计算，也就是重启两周。
Germany's segregation policy is: every day check, if more than a hundred isolated passengers found new infections, the isolation time has to be recalculated, that is, restart for two weeks.
这给大家都造成了很大的心理压力。
This caused great psychological pressure on everyone.
（撤侨航班上有2个确诊病例。
There were 2 confirmed cases on the evacuation flight.
）营地是单间隔离，和酒店房间差不多，有公共活动的空间，可下楼在院子里活动。
) The camp is a one-room encampment, similar to a hotel room, with space for public events, and can be moved downstairs in the courtyard.
隔离区由德国红十字会的志愿者运行，亲友不能送包裹进去。
The area of separation is operated by volunteers from the German Red Cross, who cannot deliver parcels.
一开始的条件不能满足家庭的需要，比如孩子用的食品和餐具欠缺，吃的也较简单，后面做了调整。
The initial conditions did not meet the needs of the family, such as lack of food and cutlery for the children and simple meals, which were later adjusted.
第二天，志愿者带来了孩子的玩具，饮食上也逐渐丰富。
The next day, the volunteers brought toys for the children and the food became richer.
同行的隔离人里有瑜伽教练，组织了瑜伽课。
Yoga instructors and yoga classes have been organized among the peer isolators.
现在大家心态上都轻松多了。
Now everyone's in a much more relaxed mood.
但对于孩子来说，他还是难以理解为什么不能出去，这对他是考验和煎熬。
But for the child, he still can't understand why can't go out, this is a test and torment to him.
14天隔离期结束后的2月17日，他们又再次进行了检测，确认同批隔离的人都没有出现反应，已经回到家中。
On 17 February, at the end of the 14-day isolation period, they again carried out tests, confirming that none of the isolated individuals had responded and had returned to their homes.
封城后的武汉摄影：王朗Alex“武断的温情”，是我在这场危机中对家庭的理解在武汉，我和父母、姥姥一起居住。
Wuhan after the closure of the city: Wang LongAlex "arbitrary warmth", is my understanding of the family in this crisis in Wuhan, my parents, grandmother and I live together.
现在，我们所在的小区已经完全封闭。
Now, our neighborhood is completely closed.
我的母亲说，我们生活在其中，反而没有那么的紧张。
'We live in it, 'my mother says,' and it's not that stressful.
死亡离我们更近，认识的人确诊、疑似，但没人会在谈起死亡时，觉得它立刻要临到自己头上。
Deaths are closer to us, people we know are diagnosed and suspected, but no one talks about death as if it were coming to us immediately.
我们紧张时，想的尽是家里谁感染了，朋友谁感染了，要怎么办。
When we are nervous, all we think about is who is infected, who is infected, how to do.
即便感染，想到的也是：坏了，亲人和朋友要怎么办，接触的那些人呢。
Even if the infection, also think of: bad, relatives and friends to do, contact those people.
武汉人没有特别的信息渠道。
Wuhan people have no special information channels.
我们和全国网友一样，从媒体和网络获得一手信息，同时依靠亲友的微信群传播。
We and the national netizen, obtains first-hand information from the media and the network, at the same time relies on the friend micro-group dissemination.
我们和所有人一样，读到个体故事，但在家人面前从来不提。
We read individual stories, like everyone else, but never in front of our families.
不是否认那些绝望的经历，而是它们离我们近。
Not to deny those desperate experiences, but to be close to us.
2019年3月 哥伦比亚考察途中2019年5月 叙利亚考察途中出于研究的需要，我时常去冲突或人道主义危机地区。
I often travel to areas of conflict or humanitarian crisis due to research needs during a study tour to Colombia in May 2019.
2019年去了委内瑞拉和叙利亚，亲眼目睹了很多家庭的离散。
Venezuela and Syria in 2019 witnessed the separation of many families.
从客观上说，我们这场分离不过是一场小波澜，没有生离死别。
Objectively speaking, our separation was nothing more than a ripple, not a parting event.
甚至可以说，有撤离的选择就是奢侈的。
It may even be said that having an exit option is luxury.
但它仍然给家庭带来不小的冲击。
But it still has a big impact on families.
我们一直在纠结的问题是：能出去一个就出去，还是优先保证家人在一起？保全的意义，到底是家人共克时艰，还是生命上的延续？往最坏的情景说，一家人集体赴难，家庭就没了。
We've been wrestling with the question of whether to go out one at a time or give priority to family members together.Preservation means sharing a difficult time or a continuation of one's lifeAt worst, when a family is in a crisis, the family is gone.
但要是一人幸存，孤家寡人，那意义又在哪里？我们最终的共识是：孩子能走就走。
But what does it matter if one person survives, alone? We finally agree that the child can walk away.
当然，这个决定唯一就是没有征求孩子的意见。
The only decision, of course, was not to ask the child for advice.
即便他的年龄大一些，能够理解处境，如果不想走，我们会接受他的意见吗？恐怕也不会。
Even if he is older and can understand the situation, if he doesn't want to go, will we accept his advice? I'm afraid not.
家庭的决策可能是温情的，但也是武断的。
Family decision-making can be warm, but arbitrary.
“武断的温情”，就是我通过这场危机，对家庭的理解。
"Arbitrary warmth" is my understanding of the family through this crisis.
讲述者Fred家庭成员妻子Vikcy（武汉人）儿子1岁岳父母武汉人现状Fred一家三口、岳父母两人分别在武汉家中自我隔离我和我太太Vicky是2015年在武汉认识的，她是武汉人，父母和亲戚都在武汉，去年我们刚迎来了自己宝宝的出生。
Wendy and I met in Wuhan in 2015. My wife Vicky and I met in Wuhan in 2015. She is Wuhan, our parents and relatives are both in Wuhan, and last year we had our own baby.
提前闭店，给员工发口罩我在武汉生活了10年，和我太太在武汉最美的一条街——黎黄陂路上经营着三家店，一家咖啡店，一家服装店和一个设计工作室。
I have lived in Wuhan for 10 years and my wife runs three shops, a coffee shop, a clothing store and a design studio on Li Huangpi Road, the most beautiful street in Wuhan.
我知道新型肺炎的消息是在去年12月31日，网上开始流传华南海鲜市场的图片，当我听到的解释是“不明原因”，我就知道情况不妙。
When I heard the news of the new pneumonia on December 31 last year, pictures of the South China seafood market began to circulate on the Internet. When I heard the explanation for "unknown reasons," I knew the situation was bad.
近年来的病毒感染频发，像埃博拉病毒、H1N1流感爆发的速度都非常快，我马上给我的员工每人发了口罩。
In recent years, virus infections have been rampant, and outbreaks of Ebola and H1N1 have been so rapid that I immediately distributed masks to every one of my staff.
有几个员工还跟我开玩笑，“Fred，现在戴口罩也太夸张了。
Several employees joke with me, "Fred, wearing a mask is too much of an exaggeration these days.
”1月20日，我再三考虑下，决定提前关闭所有门店。
On January 20, after much deliberation, I decided to close all the stores early.
三家门店每天都有不少的客流量，万一有员工感染，后果很严重，我不敢冒这个风险。
Three stores have quite a bit of traffic every day, and I'm afraid to take the risk in the event of an employee getting infected.
Vicky和宝宝的合照我劝太太带儿子走，自己留下：哪怕以外国人的面孔站出来鼓励大家也好1月23日，武汉封城，是我预料之中的措施。
I urge my wife to take my son with me and stay with me. Even if it means standing up as a foreigner and encouraging everyone, Wuhan January 23rd is what I expected.
事实上，我们家在封城前两天就已经主动自我隔离了，我跟我太太的爸妈解释，还特意嘱咐他们不要出门乱跑。
In fact, my family had voluntarily isolated themselves two days before the city was closed. I explained it to my wife's parents and specifically told them not to run.
1月24日，我收到法国领事馆发来的邮件，通知我们法国政府将安排撤侨回法国，让法国公民按照情况填写个人信息。
On 24 January, I received an e-mail from the French Consulate informing us that the French Government would arrange for the evacuation to France, where French citizens would fill in their personal information as appropriate.
我当时心里特别焦虑，但还是很镇定地对太太说，“我希望你和Gaspard（儿子）走，我留下，这里需要我，你好好考虑一下，晚一点告诉我。
I was very anxious, but calmly told my wife, "I want you and Gaspard to go. I'll stay here and need me. You think about it and tell me later.
”24日是武汉市封锁的第二天，医护资源紧张，国际医院里的法国医生也建议大家撤离，他们没有办法保证法国人在这里能接受治疗。
"The day after the Wuhan blockade, medical resources were tight and French doctors at the international hospital advised people to evacuate and there was no way to ensure treatment.
我们最担心的就是小孩，我的孩子刚一岁，撤侨能保证太太和孩子，万一出了状况，一定可以接受治疗。
We are most worried about the children, my child is just one year old, the evacuation can guarantee his wife and children, once the situation, can receive treatment.
Fred在工作室对于我来说，我早已经是一个武汉人，我没有想过离开，我也无法离开。
Fred In the studio, I was already a Wuhan person, I didn't want to leave, and I couldn't leave.
万一家人有状况，店里、员工，甚至是去医院帮忙，哪怕仅仅是用外国人的面孔站出来鼓励大家。
Thousands of families are in a state, and stores, employees, and even hospitals help, even if only to stand up and encourage people with a foreigner's face.
我太太内心当时是很矛盾的，她知道我一旦决定就很难改变，一方面如果带儿子走了，我一个人在武汉，她完全放心不下我；但如果全家留下，一岁的儿子不幸感染，获得救治的机会有多少？思前想后，她决定和我一起留下来。
On the one hand, if I take my son away and I am alone in Wuhan, she is completely upset with me. But if the whole family stays and my one-year-old son gets infected and gets treatment, she decides to stay with me.
我们已在家隔离的这些天，都没有出现任何症状，那就一家人一起留下。
We have been isolated at home these days, do not show any symptoms, then the family stay together.
2月8日武汉领事馆门前，三面旗帜分别是中国、法国以及欧盟我们为何最终放弃四次撤侨？法国的第二次撤侨是在第一次撤离的第二天，我们得到消息，飞机可以带法国人和部分欧洲其他国家人回去。
On February 8 in front of the Wuhan Consulate, the three flags were China, France and the European Union, why did we finally abandon the evacuation of overseas Chinese four timesThe second French evacuation took place on the second day of the first evacuation, and we received word that the plane could take the French and some of the rest of Europe home.
我又有点动摇，问Vicky：“要不这次走吧？”但是她看到新闻上说，中央已经派人来接管了，各地的物资也都开始支援武汉，她说这是一个好消息。
I wavered a little and asked Vicky, "Why don't you go this time?" But she saw the news that the central government had sent someone to take over and that supplies from all over the country were beginning to support Wuhan.
第三次撤离是2月1日，英国安排的飞机抵达，法国领事馆组织了200多人从武汉撤离，但是我们已经坚定要留下了。
The third evacuation took place on February 1, when a British-arranged plane arrived and the French Consulate organized the evacuation of more than 200 people from Wuhan, but we are determined to stay.
不知道为什么，我有很强烈的感觉：我们在家肯定是安全的。
I don't know why, but I have a strong feeling that we must be safe at home.
最近一次是2月21日，法国再次撤侨，60多位法国和欧盟其他国家的侨民，被送回欧洲。
The most recent evacuation of French nationals took place on 21 February, when more than 60 nationals of France and other European Union countries were sent back to Europe.
部分法国撤侨侨民被安置在南部卡利特鲁埃镇接受14天隔离，该地是南法著名的旅游度假地我听说撤侨的法国人，有一部分是被安排在南法的度假酒店隔离，还有的是被安排在消防学校，有专业的医护人员和警卫人员监测，要隔离14天才能离开，幸运的是这批回到法国的人中没有人被感染。
Some of the French evacuees were placed in isolation for 14 days in the southern town of Kalitruhe, a famous tourist resort in southern France. I heard that part of the French evacuees were quarantined in the resort hotel in Nanfa, some were placed in a fire school, monitored by professional medical personnel and guards, and had to be kept in isolation for 14 days.
我有几个外国朋友也决定留下来，大家都属于自我在家隔离，跟其他中国人一样，互相在微信群里交换信息，为彼此打气。
Several of my foreign friends decided to stay, too, all of them isolated at home, exchanging messages and cheering with each other like the other Chinese.
比较惨的是我的一个法国朋友，被困在国外，航班取消，无法回武汉，也不方便回法国。
Tragically, a French friend of mine, stranded abroad, cancelled flights, unable to return to Wuhan, and not convenient to return to France.
我就用微信联系他，多跟他分享一些疫情的最新情况。
I contacted him by microphone and shared with him some updates on the epidemic.
Fred家窗外的武汉街景在武汉的自我隔离：我学会了做热干面我们社区没有安排物资分配，从隔离到现在，我们只出门采购了三次。
Wuhan Street View Outside the Window of the Fred Home Isolated in Wuhan: I Learned to Make Hot, Dry Noodles. Our community has not arranged the distribution of supplies.
我负责骑电动车去附近的大超市把一周的物资运回来。
I was responsible for riding an electric car to the big supermarket nearby to bring back supplies for the week.
我每天都在关注法国新闻和新华社的app，法国国内现在也开始恐慌，政府开通了专线帮助人们解答新型肺炎的各种问题，有些人会问，“我吃了中国菜会被感染吗？”“从中国收到的包裹，可以安全打开吗？”我觉得挺可笑的，反而在武汉，我感到很踏实。
I have been following the French news and the APP of Xinhua every day, and now panic is starting to set in in France, where some people are asking questions about the new pneumonia. Some people say, "Can I get infected after eating Chinese food?"
我是服装设计师，每天我都还在坚持工作：戴好口罩、手套，骑自行车去工作室做设计，但都是一个人，不再跟他人接触了。
I'm a fashion designer, and I keep working every day: wearing masks, gloves, biking to the studio to do design, but all alone, no longer in touch with others.
（截至发稿时，武汉已经施行小区全封闭化管理，全家也不再出门了。
(As of the time of writing, Wuhan has imposed a total closure of the community management, the family no longer go out.
）Fred做的热干面我的太太除了做设计、负责店里大小事务，她还是一名音乐老师，她在家照顾宝宝、做家务之外，偶尔会在线教钢琴课。
Apart from designing and running the store, my wife is a music teacher. She takes care of babies and does housework at home. She occasionally teaches piano lessons online.
晚上我们通常一起吃晚餐，再一起看一部电影。
We usually have dinner together in the evening and watch a movie together.
我还利用了这段空闲的时间，学会做了武汉的热干面。
I also took advantage of this free time, learned to do Wuhan hot and dry noodles.
居家工作和陪伴小孩，成为了Fred隔离期间的日常家人健康之外，最担心疫情之后店铺的经营隔离了一个月，最高兴的是我一岁的儿子，以前我们去上班，孩子白天是给我的岳父母照顾，晚上再接回来。
Working from home and accompanying children became part of Fred's everyday family health during the isolation period, and the store was most concerned about the isolation of the store for a month after the outbreak, most happily my one-year-old son, who used to go to work and was taken care of by my parents-in-law during the day and back again in the evening.
现在他特别开心，我能有这么多的时间陪他玩，给他讲故事，哄他睡觉，父子感情也变得更好了。
Now he was so happy that I could spend so much time with him, telling him stories and coaxing him to sleep.
目前我们全家人没有一个人生病。
None of our family is ill at present.
我们没吃什么预防的药，就是按照平时习惯补充维生素之类的保健品，坚持早晚监测体温。
We did not take any preventive medicine, is in accordance with normal habits such as vitamin supplements, insist on monitoring the temperature of the morning and night.
Vicky的爸妈隔离在另一个小区，身体也很健康，这已经是最大的幸运了。
Vicky's parents are isolated in another community and in good health. That's the best of luck.
最担心我的是我在法国的家人，我每天在微信上跟我妈汇报，晚餐吃了什么，早晚的体温等等。
What worries me most is my family in France. I report to my mother on the micromail everyday, what I have for dinner, the temperature of the morning and evening, and so on.
我妈妈之前来过武汉，她在新闻上看到曾经走过的街道，现在空无一人，感觉很伤心，每天为武汉和我祈祷。
My mother, who had been to Wuhan before, saw on the news the street she had walked, now empty, feeling very sad, every day for Wuhan and my prayers.
Fred工作室一角这次疫情对我们的店铺也有很大的影响，我现在更担心的是生意，三家店闭店一个多月的损失还是很大的。
Fred Studio 1 This outbreak has had a big impact on our stores, and I'm more worried about the business. Three stores closed for more than a month.
不光我们，所有店都关闭了，不知道什么时候可以再恢复营业。
Not only we, but also all the stores are closed, I do not know when to resume business.
这是所有武汉店家最关心的问题。
This is the most concerned issue for all Wuhan stores.
不过我会耐心等着政府的恢复营业通知，在此之前，我要做的就是保证家人的安全和健康。
But I will wait patiently for the government to resume its business announcement. Before doing so, all I have to do is ensure the safety and health of my family.
在疫情期间画的手绘图正如晓宇所说的，“武断的温情”，可能是一个家庭，在这场危机中能做出的最好的决定。
Drawing hands during the epidemic, as Xiaoyu put it, "arbitrary tenderness" may be the best decision a family can make in this crisis.
愿疫情结束后，每个分离的家庭，早日相聚。
May the end of the epidemic, each separated family, together as soon as possible.
部分图片由受访者提供▼。
Why don't you do some of the picture?
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
拒绝撤离武汉的老外：我经历了魔幻的30天。
Refusing to evacuate a foreigner in Wuhan: I went through 30 days of magic.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "情感";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "一条";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "拒绝撤离武汉的老外：我经历了魔幻的30天";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var title ="一条";。
var title = & quot; & quot; a & quot;;
