邻居韩国的反思之书：为受害者立传，不能让他们沦为数字。
South Korea's Book of Reflection: Telling Victims, Not Making them Numbers.
点击右边星标。
Click the star on the right.
一条                      。
One article.
一条。
One article.
每天一条原创短视频，每天讲述一个动人的故事，每天精选人间美物，每天来和我一起过美好的生活。
Every day an original short video, tell a moving story every day, select the best things in the world, and come and live a good life with me every day.
。
.
据2月26日韩国中央防疫的通报，韩国新冠肺炎确诊病例总数达到1261例，死亡12例。
A total of 1,261 confirmed cases and 12 deaths were reported in the Republic of Korea on February 26.
在短短不到一周内，韩国新冠疫情井喷式爆发，在疫情最严峻的大邱市，当地民众排千米长队买口罩。
In less than a week, South Korea's new crown has erupted, with locals lining up for kilometers to buy masks in the worst-hit city of Daegu.
回头看5年前，2015年5月到7月，中东呼吸综合症MERS曾经席卷韩国，共计186个确诊病例，造成38人死亡，一度迫使上千所中学、小学关停。
Looking back five years ago, from May to July 2015, the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome MERS swept across South Korea, causing a total of 186 confirmed cases, killing 38 people and, at one point, forcing the closure of thousands of secondary and primary schools.
韩国作家金琸桓以MERS的受害人为背景创作记实小说在各界关注确诊数字、死亡率、经济影响、恐慌之下，韩国金琸桓看到了一个又一个无助的病人，他们没有名字、不敢曝露身份，留下的只有编号：1号病人、2号病人……于是他以MERS病患真人真事为来源，创作了纪实小说《我要活下去：MERS风暴里的人们》“我一直坚信文学应该站在穷苦、弱势和受伤害的人这边。
Korean writer Kim Jung-hwan creates fictions based on the victims of MERS and sees helpless patients with no name, no identity, only patient number 1 and patient 2... "I have always believed that literature should be on the side of the poor, the weak and the injured."
不仅文学，我们每一个人都应该这样。
Not only literature, but every one of us should.
”今年1月初，该书的中文译本出版，一条专访了金琸桓，从MERS到新冠病毒肺炎，灾难为何总在一次次重演？在说出“不会遗忘、会永远记住”之前，我们需要知道应该记住什么，必须找回“人”，而非“数字”。
In early January, a Chinese translation of the book was published, and an interview with Kim Jong-hwan, from MERS to pneumonia, why disasters are always repeated? Before saying, "Never forget, never forget," we need to know what to remember, not "numbers."
自述金琸桓编辑白汶平金琸桓关心社会议题，并通过写作为弱势发声韩国作家金琸桓1968年生，被誉为“开创韩国历史小说新局面的作家”。
Yu Ji-hwan, a self-described editor, cares about social issues and, born in 1968, is known as a "writer who created a new situation in South Korea's historical novels" by writing about his voice as a weak writer.
他擅长以社会中的真实人物为原型，创作纪实小说。
He is good at creating documentary novels based on real characters in the society.
曾两次以“2014年韩国世越号沉船事件”为来源创作，《不灭的李舜臣》《黄真伊》等多部小说被改变为影视剧。
He wrote two novels, "The South Korean Wreck" in 2014, and many other novels, including "The Inmortal Li Shun-chen" and "Huang Zhen yi," were changed into films and TV plays.
2016年，他开始筹备以MERS受害者为背景的小说《我要活下去：MERS风暴里的人们》。
In 2016, he began preparing a novel, "I Want to Live: Men in the Storm of MERS," against the backdrop of MERS victims.
除了搜集海量资料、查看新闻报道，还探访当年经历MERS的病患、家人、医护，在小说中还原他们遭遇的困境、当时社会的氛围，及反思到底谁该为此负责？2020年1月，《我要活下去：MERS风暴里的人们》中文译本出版时，遇上了新冠肺炎病毒在全球传播。
In addition to collecting huge amounts of information, checking news reports, visiting patients, families, and medical professionals who experienced MERS, restoring their plight, the social climate, and reflecting on who is responsible for it? In January 2020, when the Chinese version of "I Will Live: People in Storm MERS" was published, the virus spread around the world.
金琸桓原计划2月7日出席台北书展时，接受一条团队专访拍摄，没想到书展因为疫情延期，我们改用邮件采访。
Kim Yu-hwan had planned to attend the Taipei Book Fair on February 7 and was interviewed by a team.
从2015年的MERS到2020年的新冠肺炎，面对疫情灾难时，社会做得更好了吗？以下是金琸桓的自述。
From MERS in 2015 to new crown pneumonia in 2020, is society doing a better job in the face of an epidemic? Here is Kim Jong-hwan's self-narrative.
图片来源:KIM HONG-JI/REUTERS传染病结束了，但人生依旧继续。
Source: KIM HONG-JI / REUTERS Infectious disease is over, but life continues.
我想把MERS事件写成小说，是在2016年的晚春。
I wanted the MERS story to be a novel in late spring 2016.
距离2015年5月，名为“中东呼吸症候群”的传染病席卷韩半岛已经一年。
In May 2015, an infectious disease called "Middle East Respiratory Syndrome" engulfed the Korean Peninsula for a year.
很多MERS受害者都不愿受访，我好不容易联系上几个人，他们委屈地哭诉着MERS是如何毁掉自己的人生，却仍不愿跟记者见面。
Many of the MERS victims were reluctant to be interviewed, and I managed to reach out to a few people who cried bitterly about how MERS had ruined their lives, yet refused to meet journalists.
他们说，如果网友要肉搜，就没有能隐瞒的事——谁都不想再次被贴上MERS病人的标签。
If netizens ask for meat, they say, there's nothing to hide - no one wants to be labeled a MERS patient again.
我重新看了2015年与MERS相关的新闻和电视节目，与政府、地方政府和医院的医护人员有关的内容多不胜数，报道MERS受害者的却少之又少。
I re-read the 2015 MERS-related news and television program, which has so much to do with health care workers in government, local governments, and hospitals, and very little coverage of MERS victims.
就算有，内容也多半是按照确诊顺序编码后、住进隔离病房发生的事。
Even if there is, the content is mostly in accordance with the sequence of diagnosis code, live in the isolation ward.
他们作为自由的个人、社会共同体的一分子，我们在报道中却看不到这些人的过去、现在和未来。
They are the free individuals, members of the social community, whose past, present and future we do not see in our reports.
为受害者立传：希望他们作为个体生命被记住于是我开始着手写受害者的故事。
Legalizing the victims: Hopefully they will be remembered as individuals and so I set out to write the stories of the victims.
在说出“不会遗忘、会永远记住”之前，我们需要知道应该记住什么，必须找回“人”，而非“数字”。
Before saying "never forget, never forget," we need to know what to remember and to get back "people," not "numbers."
在很多人的帮助下，我与受害者见了面。
With the help of many people, I met with the victims.
我很感谢那些跟我见面和未能见面的人，到目前为止，还没有正式组成MERS受害者的团体，我很能理解他们那种复杂的心情和面对的现实。
I am grateful to those whom I have met and who have not been able to meet. So far, there is no formal group of MERS victims, and I understand their mixed feelings and the realities they face.
人们被狭隘地划分出正常与非正常，而被划分在非正常里的这些人，被一而再、再而三地贴上标签、受到厌恶。
People are narrowly divided between what is normal and what is not, and those who are not are labeled and loathed over and over again.
正因如此，我觉得很难直接用现实的人物、事件和背景去创作纪实文学。
Because of this, I find it difficult to directly use real people, events and backgrounds to create documentary literature.
虽然我将自己见过的这些人更改了设定，但仍希望原原本本地写出他们的痛苦，那些有时是叹息、有时是泪水、有时是悲鸣、有时是挣扎、有时是沉默的痛苦！我长时间地凝视他们，聆听他们，一起查阅资料、进行实地考察。
Although I changed the settings of the people I met, I wanted to write out their pain in its entirety, sometimes sighing, sometimes crying, sometimes wailing, sometimes struggling, sometimes silent pain! I stared at them for a long time, listened to them, consulted information, and made field trips.
这过程让人感到悲凉，“如果这里不是地狱，哪里才是地狱？”、“那地狱现在也还在持续”……这些话语和叹息，深深刺痛着我的心。
It was a sad process, "If this is not hell, where is hell?", "that hell is still going on"... these words and sighing, deeply stung my heart.
图片来源:AP那些“感染过MERS”的人们，与不忍卒睹的人生巨大、冰冷的高墙暴露了出来。
Source: AP Those who have been infected with MERS, and the unbearable sight of life's huge, cold walls exposed.
国家和医院不承认错误，因为不承认，所以没有任何补偿和赔偿，这种方式对因传染病失去一切的人何其残忍。
The State and the hospital do not admit their mistakes, because they do not admit it, so there is no compensation or reparation, and this method is so cruel to those who have lost everything to the epidemic.
绝大多数受害者都不具专业医学知识，很多人一辈子没上过法庭，对法律知识也一无所知。
The vast majority of victims have no professional medical knowledge, many have never been to court in their lives and have no knowledge of the law.
倾吐委屈的痊愈者和遗属，记不清楚在隔离病房接受过怎样的治疗，病人的病情何时开始恶化或恶化的程度。
The aggrieved healer and the survivor do not remember how well they were treated in the isolation ward and when the patient's condition began to deteriorate or deteriorate.
他们只记得好好的一个人在短短十天、半个月内，不断在死亡线上挣扎，过程却说不清楚，这又让他们陷入深深的绝望。
They only remember a good person in a short period of 10 days, half a month, constantly struggling on the death line, but the process can not say, which plunged them into deep despair.
生与死不能交给运气。
Life and death cannot be left to luck.
只因自己没有感染，只因自己没有搭乘那艘船，就觉得自己很“走运”的想法，未免太过浅薄且愚蠢。
The idea that he was "lucky" because he was not infected, just because he did not board the ship, is too shallow and stupid.
况且不向陷入水深火热的人伸出援手，反倒排斥他们，这绝非共同体的意义。
Moreover, it is not the meaning of the Community not to reach out to those in need, but to exclude them.
电影《拯救大兵瑞恩》和《火星救援》之所以触动人心，正是因为社会共同体没有放弃个人，没有用经济损失和成功的可能性高低，去衡量该坚守的价值。
The films "Saving Private Ryan" and "Mars Rescue" struck the heart precisely because the community did not give up on individuals and did not measure the value it stood for in terms of economic loss and probability of success.
我们没有去守护受害者，没有人去阻止对隔离者的批判，甚至试图把受害者变成加害者，“超级传播者”一词就是典型的代表。
The term "super communicator" is typically used when we do not guard the victim, no one prevents criticism of the segregator, or even attempts to turn the victim into a victimizer.
受害者面对突如其来的传染病，光是战胜病魔就已经力不从心了，那些谣言，更将他们伤得千疮百孔。
Victims of sudden infectious disease, just to overcome the disease is already beyond their capacity, those rumors, but also their wounds.
我们也没有启动“社会安全网”。
Nor have we activated the "social safety net."
社会没有尽全力去帮助那些因MERS失去亲人的遗属和勉强才痊愈的病人，没有人向他们解释，为什么心爱的人会感染MERS、会离开这个世界，也没有任何政策能帮助那些被迫丢掉工作的人，更没有积极为这些人治疗心理创伤。
Society has done little to help the bereaved and barely healed survivors of MERS, explaining to them why their loved ones became infected with MERS, left the world, and had no policies to help those who were forced to lose their jobs, let alone actively treat them for psychological trauma.
他们期盼痊愈后能回归正常生活，但“感染过MERS”毁了他们往后的漫漫人生，不忍卒睹。
They hoped to recover and return to normal life, but "infection with MERS" ruined their lives for the rest of their lives.
日复一日地坠落、坠落再坠落！但无论在哪里，都没有能够阻止坠落的网。
Falling, falling, falling day after day! But everywhere there is no net that can stop it.
从MERS到新冠病毒：我坚信文学应该站在弱势、受伤害的那一边2018年9月8日，韩国再次出现 MERS确诊病人。
From MERS to New Crown Virus: I firmly believe that literature should stand on the weak, injured side of Korea on September 8, 2018, when MERS-diagnosed patients will reappear.
虽然预想到这个传染病还会再次出现，但没想到它会在3年后，我推敲这部小说时再次出现。
I expected the epidemic to reappear, but I didn't expect it to reappear three years later, when I reviewed the novel.
幸好这次的初期应变和防治很成功。
Fortunately, the initial response and control were successful.
那天的新闻播出后，我接到先前MERS受害者打来的电话。
After the news broadcast that day, I got a call from an earlier MERS victim.
他们抽泣着问我，为什么现在防治能成功，3年前却失败了？如果像这次立刻公开医院的名字，就不会痛失亲人了。
They sobbed to me, Why is the prevention and treatment successful now, but failed three years ago? If the name of the hospital were to be revealed immediately, there would be no loss of loved ones.
防治“失败”令很多人丧生、受伤，这些受到伤害的人正在向国家和医院提告。
The fight against "failure" has left many dead and wounded, and those who have been injured are taking their cases to the state and hospitals.
他们不得不离开原有的家，搬到陌生的地方，还要自费去心理治疗。
They had to leave their homes, move to new places and pay for psychological treatment.
虽然这些人的人生样貌都不同，却都一样还生活在痛苦中。
Although these people are different in appearance, they are all still living in pain.
我们不能把这件事只看作个人的不幸。
We cannot regard this as merely a personal misfortune.
虽然2015年时，我们没有关注那些在黑暗深渊痛苦的人们，但至少现在应该去关怀、拥抱他们。
Although in 2015 we are not paying attention to those who are suffering in the dark abyss, it is time at least to care and embrace them.
金琸桓一直和探访过的MERS患者保持联系从22年前首次出版长篇小说，我一直坚信文学应该站在穷苦、弱势和受伤害的人这边。
Kim Jong-hwan has been in touch with visiting MERS patients since he first published a novel 22 years ago, and I have always believed that literature should be on the side of the poor, the weak, and the injured.
而这一次，此时此刻，新型冠状病毒侵袭全世界，包括韩国。
And this time, at this very moment, the new coronavirus has struck the world, including South Korea.
早前看到韩国民间因为疫情发起“禁止中国人入境”呼吁的新闻，无知会放大恐惧，放大的恐惧会延伸为憎恶。
Ignorance amplifies fear, which spreads to disgust, as earlier news of calls from South Korean citizens to "ban the Chinese from entering the country" for the outbreak.
我们本就不应该以这种憎恶去责难被感染的人、感染的地区、感染的国家。
We should not have blamed infected people, infected areas, infected countries with this abomination.
图片来源：ED JONES/GETTY IMAGES眼下最重要的是，各国必须及时共享信息，以共享的信息作为基础掌握情况，采取及时有效的应对。
Source: ED JONES / GETTY IMAGES What is most important now is for countries to share information in a timely manner, to use the information shared as a basis for a timely and effective response.
我也相信现在的韩国政府，为了不重蹈覆辙，正在全力以赴针对新型冠状病毒采取防疫措施。
I also believe that the South Korean government, in order not to repeat the past, is fully committed to the new coronavirus immunization measures.
图片来源:AHN YOUNG-JOON/AP2015年5月20日上午11点，首尔京畿道W医院，三名流行病学调查员抵达8楼。
Source: AHN YOUNG-JOON / AP2015 On 20 May 2015, 11 a.m., W Hospital, Kyonggi Province, Seoul, three epidemiological investigators arrived on the 8th floor.
他们穿戴好C级防护装备，依序走进病房，流行病调查这件事被视为机密。
They wore class C protective equipment, walked in sequence into the ward, and the epidemiological investigation was considered confidential.
调查员戴着内外双层手套，仔细检查病床、窗框、天花板，连一根毛发也没有放过，所有东西都放进塑胶袋密封起来。
The investigators, wearing outer and inner double-decker gloves, scrutinized beds, window frames and ceilings, did not leave a single hair untouched, and everything was sealed in plastic bags.
这时，刚好一缕阳光照了进来，让白色头罩、黄色防护衣和蓝色围裙映衬得更加鲜明。
Just then, a ray of sunlight came in, sharpening the white hood, the yellow suit and the blue apron.
在这个地球上，这身装扮在任何地方都不受欢迎。
This dress is not welcome anywhere on this planet.
——这是纪实小说《我要活下去：MERS风暴里的人们》的开场。
This is the beginning of the documentary film I Want to Live: Men in the Storm of MERS.
2015年韩国“1 号” MERS病人出现后，其病房被调查。
The South Korean "No. 1" MERS patient appeared in 2015 after its ward was investigated.
图片来源:AP2015年，中东呼吸综合症MERS，病毒从中东往全球扩散，韩国成了沙特之外，全球感染速度最快的国家。
Source: AP2015, Middle East Respiratory Syndrome MERS, the virus spreading from the Middle East to the world, South Korea has become the world's fastest-infected country outside Saudi Arabia.
这一年的5月到7月之间，韩国共计186个确诊病例、38人死亡，死亡率超过两成。
Between May and July of that year, there were 186 confirmed cases and 38 deaths in Korea, with a mortality rate of more than 20 per cent.
掩盖真实信息，似乎成了所有疫情爆发的开端。
Covering up real information seems to be the beginning of all outbreaks.
事实上，韩国MERS第一起病例虽是5月20日被确诊，但早在5月12日，这位“1号病人”就分别在3家医院就诊，直到第4家医院时，才被发现他曾到过中东巴林，是高度疑似MERS的病例。
In fact, South Korea's first case of MERS was diagnosed on May 20, but as early as May 12, the "No.1 patient" was seen in three hospitals, and not until the 4th hospital was found to have travelled to Bahrain in the Middle East, a case of high suspicion of MERS.
院方立刻向上通报，但韩国疾病控制与预防中心拒绝确诊，于是这位病人又被搁置了36小时，5月27日，把病毒传染给当时也在急诊室的14人，疫情开始蔓延……金琸桓以医院为开端，小说中的3位主人公，就是在急诊室被感染MERS的这14人中：淋巴癌初愈回诊的牙医金石柱、送走癌末父亲的实习记者李一花、扛起一家经济的书仓管理员吉冬华。
The hospital immediately alerted, but the KCDC refused to confirm the diagnosis, so the patient was put on hold for another 36 hours. On May 27, the virus spread to 14 people who were also in the emergency room.
3人分别被确诊感染MERS，人生就此改变。
Three people were diagnosed with MERS and their lives changed.
不知情中把病情传染给亲戚，我是加害者吗？李一花刚从大学毕业，在新闻台做实习记者。
Unbeknownst to my relatives, am I a victimizer? Li Yihua has just graduated from university and worked as an intern reporter on the news desk.
5月27日，她陪同癌症末期的父亲前往急诊室，父亲熬不过这次急救，当天过世了，而她也完全不知道，自己在这过程中已感染MERS。
On May 27, she accompanied her father, who was dying of cancer, to the emergency room. He was unable to survive the first aid and died the same day, completely unaware that she had been infected with MERS in the process.
“有些重要的瞬间是可以决定人生的，我们却很少有机会提早知道那些瞬间。
"There are moments in life that can be decided, but those moments in time that we seldom know ahead of time.
”5月28到30日，在父亲的3日葬礼上，几乎所有亲戚都来了，全家人聚在一起互相安慰。
From May 28 to 30, at my father's funeral on May 3, almost all the relatives came and the whole family got together to comfort each other.
回到家后，一花一觉睡到了31日深夜。
When I got home, I slept deep into the night of the 31st.
做实习记者的5个月来，工作节奏快、整日整夜的在外跑，都没好好休息过。
For five months as a trainee journalist, working fast, running out all day and all night without a good rest.
起来时，她觉得自己耳垂发烫，好像有些低烧，头也很晕。
When she got up, she felt her earlobe burning, as if she had a low fever and was dizzy.
一直到6月4日，发高烧、咳嗽到清晨。
Until June 4, I had a high fever and coughed until morning.
6月1日，前辈记者中有人接到需对外保密的消息：据称，5月27日至29日到过F医院急诊室的病人中，有人在5月30日确诊为MERS。
On 1 June, one of the senior journalists received information that needed to be kept confidential: among the patients who had allegedly visited the emergency room of hospital F from 27 to 29 May, someone had been diagnosed with MERS on 30 May.
而一直到6月4日上午，记者们的信箱陆续收到政府的新闻稿：果真是MERS。
By the morning of June 4, journalists had received government press releases in their mailboxes: If it was MERS.
同事才反应过来一花的情况：“比起采访，救人要紧啊！”4日晚上11点，救护车把一花从家送到了医院，6日、7日两次检查呈阳性，一花确诊感染了MERS。
At 11: 00 pm on the 4th, an ambulance took a flower from home to the hospital, tested positive twice on June 6 and 7, and a flower was diagnosed as infected with MERS.
幸运的是，一花年轻、抵抗力较强，两周内就痊愈出院了。
Fortunately, a flower young, strong resistance, within two weeks, recovered from the hospital.
这时她才知道，原来葬礼上有4位亲戚长辈因自己被感染MERS，其中姨丈已经不幸过世了。
It was then that she learned that four relatives had died at the funeral because they had been infected with MERS.
她陷入了深深的自责中，“和睦相处的一家人难道错了吗？”在媒体的报道中，一花看到一行注解“这些受害者，因为传染了病毒，无奈成了加害者”，传染力强的病人还被叫做“超级传播者”。
She fell into deep self-reproach, "is it wrong to live in harmony with one another?" In a media report, the flower saw a line saying "These victims, infected with the virus, have become helpless perpetrators," and highly contagious patients are called "super-disseminators."
她不忍心痛：怎么能这么简单地区分被害者和加害者？那么我是加害者吗？难道不该先思考让病人感染、让病毒扩散的医院的僵化体制吗？”痊愈出院后，为什么却仿佛被世界抛弃？那天同在急诊室的，还有在出版业工作了30年的吉冬华。
She could not bear heartache: how could I so easily distinguish between the victim and the perpetrator? Should I not think about the rigid system of hospitals that infect and spread the virus?
50岁的她，独自抚养上大学的儿子，还要照顾相差15岁的妹妹，一肩扛起全家的生计。
The 50-year-old raised her son alone in college, took care of her 15-year-old sister and shouldered the family's livelihood.
幸运的是，她是转送MERS病房的病人中最早、仅用4天便换到普通病房的人。
Luckily, she was the first patient referred to the MERS ward to be transferred to the general ward in only four days.
原以为痊愈后可以回到社会，生活回到正轨，没想到一切想得太天真。
Originally thought that after the recovery can return to society, life back on track, did not expect that all too naive.
现实是：身上的MERS标签怎么也撕不掉。
The reality is that the MERS tag on your body won't tear off.
出院后，她一天洗4、5次澡，深怕自己身上带着晦气。
After she left the hospital, she bathed four or five times a day for fear of being unlucky.
可每当她走出家门，认识10多年的邻居开始闪避。
But every time she went out of the house, neighbors who had known her for more than 10 years dodged.
图片来源:CHUNGSUNG-JUN/GETTY IMAGES冬华在治疗过程中丧失一半的肺功能，体重掉了20公斤，原本能把20本书往身上背，现在却没办法，不小心咳了一声，同事全吓得远远的。
Source: CHUNGSUNG-JUN / GETTY IMAGES WINHUA lost half of his lung function during treatment, lost 20 kg and could have carried 20 books to his back.
因为她的确诊，公司出货量大减，不少出版社要求换仓库，因为觉得脏也不敢碰她碰过的书，她忍着眼泪，跟上司解释：“我已经痊愈了，医生说不会复发。
Because of her diagnosis, the company's shipments have been greatly reduced, many publishers asked to change the warehouse, because feel dirty also dare not touch the book she touched, she resisted tears, explained to her boss: "I have recovered, the doctor said will not relapse.
”上司说：“不是要你死，是这样公司才能活。
"The boss said," It's not like that. It's how the company lives.
”就这样，冬华被工作了30年的公司和行业抛弃了。
As a result, Dong Hua was abandoned by companies and industries that had worked for 30 years.
“全世界的人都说我脏，我到底该怎么证明自己是干净的？”图片来源:AHN YOUNG-JOON/AP被“抹掉”的最后一位患者：支离破碎的家庭，该由谁负责？与李一花、吉冬华相比，金石柱的情况更为复杂。
Photo: AHN YOUNG-JOON / AP The last patient to be "erased": a broken family, who is responsible? The Golden Stone Column situation is more complicated than that of Li Yihua and Jidong Hua.
37岁的石柱，在一家牙医诊所上班，与妻子映亚生活幸福，有个5岁的儿子。
Stonehenge, 37, works at a dentist's office, is happy with his wife, Yingya, and has a 5-year-old son.
5月27日在急诊室的3人中，最早返回医院的其实是金石柱，因为他是一名淋巴癌患者。
Of the three people in the emergency room on 27 May, the first to return to the hospital was actually a pillar of gold, as he was suffering from lymphoma.
6月1日一早，他就去医院复诊癌症。
Early in the morning of June 1, he went to the hospital to reexamine his cancer.
没想到，他也成了最后一个MERS病例。
Unexpectedly, he became the last case of MERS as well.
由于有基础病淋巴癌，导致他的病情反复，病毒测试阴性、阳性交替出现。
Because has the basic disease lymphoma, causes his condition repeatedly, the virus test negative, the positive alternation appears.
其他患者都在两周内出院了，最后，只剩他一个人 。
The other patients were discharged within two weeks, leaving him alone.
根据官方发布的“每日消息”，7月4日之后，已经23天没有再出现确诊病人。
According to the official Daily News, there have been no confirmed cases for 23 days after July 4.
7月28日，就像在等待这一天到来一样，韩国国务总理向世界宣布：MERS疫情结束，韩国已经不是疫区。
On July 28, as he waited for the day to arrive, South Korea's prime minister declared to the world that the MERS epidemic was over and that South Korea was no longer an epidemic.
图片来.:CHUNGSUNG-JUN/GETTY IMAGES而此时，金石柱还一个人，在病房奋战。
Photo taken: CHUNGSUNG-JUN / GETTY IMAGES While the pillar of gold was alone, fighting in the hospital room.
居家隔离中的妻子见不到丈夫，痛心、愤怒，也无助：“我的丈夫为了MERS忍受着地狱般的痛苦，生不如死，政府却急着抹去MERS这个词。
"My husband endured hell-like pain and death for MERS, and the government was anxious to erase the word MERS.
我们一家的不幸与痛苦谁来负责？”因为MERS再次被送进负压隔离病房的金石柱，癌症迟迟得不到治疗。
Who is to blame for our family's misfortunes and pain? Because MERS was once again sent to the gold pillar in the negative pressure isolation ward, where cancer was untreated.
各界开始互踢皮球：医院把医疗决策推给政府，政府推给WHO（世界卫生组织），WHO给的建议是无法回应即时需求。
As communities kicked each other around: hospitals pushed health-care decisions to the government, governments pushed the World Health Organization (WHO), and the World Health Organization gave advice that it could not respond to immediate needs.
“我被关在里面，游走在生死边缘，世界仍照常运作。
"I was shut in there, swimming on the edge of life and death, and the world was functioning as usual.
一个人痛苦，一个人死去，就算死了，留下的也不是我的名字，而是政府编码的数字‘第38号病人’。
A person suffering, a person died, even if the death, left is not my name, but the number of the government code 'No. 38'.
”从6月到11月，在数次反复之后，一心想着“我要活下去的”的金石柱，撑不住了。
Between June and November, after several repetitions, the pillar of gold that was thinking "I want to live" could not hold out.
“金石柱，死亡。
"Pillar of gold, death.
死亡时间是11月25日3点06分。
The time of death was 03: 06 on 25 November.
”编辑后记可以说，这是一本邻居韩国的反思之书。
It is, so to speak, a book of reflection by a neighbor, South Korea.
对首位患者的误判，隐瞒爆发感染的医院名单，遗漏密切接触者，被忽视的院内防护，医疗系统各方的协调无力，用解决受害者代替解决问题……及疫情过去后，那些病人遗属和死里逃生的病人，怎么样了？疫情风暴中普通受害者的经历、个体所付出的代价，是作者金琸桓一直热切注意的，也应该是我们每一个人所关注的。
What about the misjudgment of the first patient, the concealment of the list of hospitals where the infection broke out, the omission of close contacts, neglected hospital protection, weak coordination among all parties in the medical system, and the substitution of victims for victims...
我们每个人都是社会共同体中的一员，我们不该只去忘却、远离，应该去聆听、抚慰因疫情受伤害的人们，守护那些很想大喊“我要活下去”，却被强制沉默、充满恐惧的人们。
Each of us is a member of the social community. We should not just forget and stay away. We should listen and comfort those who have been hurt by the epidemic, and those who want to cry "I want to live," but are forced to remain silent and fearful.
祈愿韩国能早日控制疫情，祈愿更多人不再被恐慌笼罩，回归正常、积极的生活。
I hope that South Korea can control the epidemic at an early date, so that more people will not be shrouded in fear and return to normal, positive life.
部分图片由时报出版社提供▼。
Why don't you tell me why?
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
邻居韩国的反思之书：为受害者立传，不能让他们沦为数字。
South Korea's Book of Reflection: Telling Victims, Not Making them Numbers.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "一条";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "邻居韩国的反思之书：为受害者立传，不能让他们沦为数字";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="一条";。
var title = & quot; & quot; a & quot;;
