疫起高墙 |  3 省 5 监狱确诊 555 例背后的人情冷暖。
At & quot; 3 provincial prisons & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
郑宇钧 杨媛。
Zheng Yujun Yeung.
偶尔治愈                      。
Occasionally cured.
偶尔治愈。
Occasionally cured.
记录人与疾病、衰老、死亡的相处方式。
Document how people relate to illness, old age and death.
。
.
在武汉监狱发病，出狱后从武汉抵京后确诊， 61 岁的黄登英近日引起舆论震动， 2 月 26 日，中央联合调查组赴湖北，就「武汉女子监狱刑满释放人员感染新冠肺炎到京事件」进行调查。
An investigation into the case of ex-prisoners from Wuhan Women's Prison infected with New Crown Pneumonia in Beijing was conducted on Feb. 26 in Hubei Province after being diagnosed with the disease after arriving from Wuhan.
「黄登英和我老婆在一个监区，武汉女子监狱十一监区二分监区。
"Huang Dengying and my wife are in a cell block, Block 11, Block 2, Wuhan Women's Prison.
」赵强跟「偶尔治愈」诉说对妻子的担心，「活着就好」。
"Zhao Qiang and" occasionally cure "to tell the fear of his wife," to live well.
「 2 月 24 日，村里的通知还是丈夫健康。
"On February 24, the village notice was for the husband's health.
2 月 26 日，司法局通知我，丈夫确诊了。
On 26 February, the Justice Department informed me that my husband had been diagnosed.
」山东任城监狱一名服刑人员的妻子赵瑞跟「偶尔治愈」说。
Zhao Rui, the wife of a serving sentence at Shandong Ren Cheng Jail, said "occasionally cured."
她和许多犯属，自疫情爆发以来，一直希望能接到家人报平安的电话、获知确诊家人的治疗情况，她们的诉求屡屡碰壁。
Since the outbreak, she and many members of her family have been waiting to hear from their families about their well-being and treatment, and their claims have often been frustrated.
随着 2 月 21 日消息的披露，监狱干警和服刑人员群体被骤然推上了热搜，掺杂着情绪的舆论一波波涌来，铁窗那边沉默以对。
With the news of 21 February, the prison police and the prison population were suddenly put on the hot search, mixed with emotional public opinion wave after wave, the iron window side of silence.
据报道，截止 23 日，武汉女子监狱确诊数最多，达 279 例，济宁任城监狱确诊 207 例。
As of June 23, Wuhan women's prison confirmed the largest number of 279 cases, JinNingcheng prison confirmed 207 cases.
此后，按疫情报告规定，监狱疫情并入武汉市等地统计，不再单列。
Since then, according to the epidemic report, the prison epidemic situation into Wuhan city and other statistics, no longer separate.
截止 2 月 25 日，3 个省 5 所监狱共确诊病例 555 例，疑似 19 例，重症 4 例。
As at 25 February, there were 555 confirmed cases, 19 suspected cases and 4 severe cases in five prisons in three provinces.
据媒体 21 日消息，中央政法委组成调查组，赴山东调查任城监狱新冠肺炎疫情情况。
According to media 21, the Central Political Science and Law Commission formed an investigation team to Shandong Province to investigate the situation of the new crown pneumonia.
另据报道，监狱系统已有 11 人被免职, 1 人被党内严重警告处分, 1 人被立案调查。
It was also reported that 11 persons had been dismissed from the prison system, 1 had been severely reprimanded by the party and 1 had been investigated.
同期全国新增确诊病例为零的地区已经突破 20 个。
During the same period, the number of newly confirmed cases nationwide has exceeded 20.
全国疫情好转之时，为何戒备森严的监狱病例剧增？「武汉女子监狱距离武汉肺科医院不到 100 米，监狱干警上下班和医院人员是同一个公交站，在全面封闭前，可能就已经导致了病毒输入。
"Wuhan Women's Prison is less than 100 meters away from Wuhan Lung Hospital, and the commuter and hospital staff are at the same bus station, which may have caused virus input before full closure.
湖北汉津监狱、浙江十里丰监狱、山东任城监狱发生疫情，都是由于个别干警接触湖北疫区人员之后不如实报告，隔离不彻底，导致输入性病例。
The cases occurred in Hubei Hanjin Prison, Zhejiang Ten-Li Fung Prison and Shandong Ren Cheng Prison. All of these cases were caused by underreporting and incomplete isolation by individual dry police after contacting personnel of Hubei epidemic area, resulting in imported cases.
」司法部副部长熊选国于 2 月 26 日举行的国务院发布会上介绍。
Deputy Justice Minister Xiong Xiong was introduced at a State Council briefing on February 26.
有犯属表示「希望监狱能给确诊服刑人员保外就医等机会」；有狱警家属感叹，监狱干警工作强度超负荷，结束封闭出监的日期一再延后，五六十天见不着家人。
"We hope that the prison will provide prisoners with the opportunity to seek medical treatment," said a prison guard's family, who lamented that the prison police were overworked and that the end of the confinement period had been repeatedly postponed to 50-60 days without seeing their families.
「偶尔治愈」联系了二十余位监狱干警、监狱医生、服刑人员家属、狱警家属，试图还原事故背后的人情冷暖。
"Occasionally cured" contacted more than 20 prison police, prison doctors, prisoners' families, prison guards' families, trying to restore the warmth behind the accident.
上一次「战时状态」，还是非典这个春节，对湖北荆州人刘霞蔚来说，格外难熬，打击接二连三而来，孩子早夭，丈夫入狱，年夜饭也变得没了生气。
The last "wartime state", or SARS this Spring Festival, Hubei Jingzhou people Liu Xia Wei, particularly difficult, hit a succession of children, the children died early, the husband in prison, the New Year's dinner has become less alive.
这是刘霞蔚结婚的第 7 年。
This is the seventh year of Liu Xia Wei's marriage.
1 月 8 日，她丈夫从沙市区看守所押往监狱，被判 13 年。
On 8 January, her husband was taken to prison from the detention centre in the city and sentenced to 13 years' imprisonment.
在丈夫入狱后第 13 天，刘霞蔚才知道他在汉津监狱。
Only 13 days after her husband's imprisonment did Liu Xia become aware that he was in Hanjin Prison.
入狱头三个月是集训期，无法探监会见。
The first three months of imprisonment were intensive and no visits were possible.
也是这天，在武汉，郝风楼 29 岁的女儿从孝感看守所被移送到武汉女子监狱。
On the same day, in Wuhan, Hao Feng Lou's 29-year-old daughter was transferred from the Xiaofeng detention center to Wuhan women's prison.
「她们一起入狱有 12 个同事，都是因为电信诈骗。
"They went to jail together with 12 colleagues because of telecommunications fraud.
1 月 14 日有人去看他女儿，我女儿便托人告我，她没钱用，入狱时不允许带钱。
On 14 January someone went to see his daughter, who told me that she had no money and that she was not allowed to bring money with her when she went to prison.
」郝风楼跟「偶尔治愈」说。
"Hao Feng Lou said of the occasional cure.
武汉女子监狱，始建于 1917 年北洋政府时期，保留了旧式建筑体，是中国建监历史最久的监狱之一。
Wuhan Women's Prison, founded in 1917 during the Beiyang Government, retains the old-fashioned structure and is one of the oldest prisons in China.
「服刑人员家属之间一沟通才知道，家人被提走时，当地看守所未曾通知我们。
"It was only through communication between the families that we learned that the local detention centre had not informed us when the family was taken away.
我妈是 1 月 20 日离开黄石第一看守所的，没有收到任何通知，我一度不知道妈妈到哪了。
My mother had left Wong Shek Detention Centre No. 1 on January 20 and had not received any notification. I had no idea where my mother had been.
」河南姑娘乔尤野对「偶尔治愈」说，她辗转打了二十几通电话，问到妈妈去了武汉女子监狱。
"Henan girl Joyu-no told" Occasional Healing "that she toss and turn over a twenty-odd phone call to ask her mother to go to Wuhan Women's Prison.
服刑人员和家人的联系，只有探监、电话、书信三个渠道。
Contacts between prisoners and their families are limited to visits, telephone calls and correspondence.
和很多监狱一样，任城监狱每周三探监，一个月可以探监一次。
Like many prisons, Ren Cheng prison visits every Wednesday, one visit a month.
电话是每个月两次，一次五分钟。
Telephone is twice a month, once every five minutes.
「我和他是事实婚姻，但还没有领证。
"He and I are a de facto marriage, but we have not yet collected it.
按照《监狱法》第 48 条规定，只有亲属和监护人才能行使探监权，所以我不能去监狱看他。
According to article 48 of the Prisons Act, only relatives and guardians may exercise visiting rights, so I cannot visit him in prison.
」赵瑞说，自从丈夫由看守所押往任城监狱后，她已经 13 个月没见到孩子他爸了。
Zhao said she had not seen her father for 13 months since her husband was taken from the detention center to Ren Cheng prison.
监狱不允许外来物品，之前赵瑞给丈夫寄过书，被拒签了。
Imprisonment does not allow foreign goods, Zhao Rui sent her husband a book, was refused a visa.
唯一的好消息是，「可能是过年的原因，上个月他被允许多打了一次电话。
The only good news is that "it may be the Chinese New Year. He was allowed to make an extra phone call last month.
」电话是在 1 月 25 日打的，大年初一，「他排了半小时的队，跟我说 5 分钟」。
"The call was made on January 25," he queued up for half an hour to talk to me for five minutes "on New Year's Day.
这次，丈夫没再跟赵瑞提到《都挺好》，那是他在狱中追的热播剧，而是语气多了几分担心，他说到了疫情，让妻子带着娃别出门，买什么让妹妹送过来。
This time, the husband did not mention to Zhao Rui "are good," which is his hot play in prison, but the tone of a bit worried, he said the epidemic, let his wife with baby do not go out, buy something to send his sister.
「他以前都说，我一个人带娃辛苦，不用经常拖地，但这次他说，非常时期，要经常拖地，用消毒水拖。
"He used to say that I didn't have to mop the floor very often, but this time, he said," I have to mop the floor regularly and use disinfectant to mop it up.
」赵瑞说，她没想到要提醒丈夫做防护，因为她认为监狱是「最安全的地方」。
Zhao said she did not expect to remind her husband to take precautions because she thought the prison was the "safest place."
疫情的阴霾在悄然迫近，而武汉还在喜迎新春。
The haze of the epidemic is looming, and Wuhan is still happy to welcome the New Year.
1 月 14 日，武汉女子监狱组织「探亲」活动；1 月 17 日，举办民警职工春节联欢晚会，部分退休民警、家属代表出席；1 月 18 日，百步亭社区举办万家宴， 4 万多户家庭参加；1 月 20 日，湖北省监狱管理局举行新年联欢会，武汉女子监狱 14 名女警参演。
On January 14, Wuhan Women's Prison organized "family visit" activities; on January 17, some retired police officers and family members attended the Spring Festival Gala, and on January 18, representatives of some retired police and their families held a banquet with more than 40,000 families.
未拉响的警报，让聚集性活动照常开展，隐患由此埋下。
Unsounded alarms, allowing the gathering activity to continue as usual, laid the hidden danger.
1 月 20 日，武汉市文旅局派发 20 万张景区门票，鼓励市民出门游玩，当天，有 33058 位市民预约成功门票。
On January 20, 200 000 tickets were distributed to the Wuhan Cultural and Tourism Bureau to encourage the public to go out and play.
也是在这天，钟南山院士证实，新冠病毒「人传人」。
Also on this day, academician Zhong Nan Shan confirmed that the new crown virus "person-to-person."
护女心切的郝风楼于 1 月 15 日从孝感来到武汉，可惜晚了一天，监狱只允许每周二探监会见，托干警，他送进去了 1000 元。
Hao Feng Lou, the nurse, arrived in Wuhan on January 15 from filial piety. Unfortunately, one day late, the prison only allowed to see the prison every Tuesday, entrusted the dry police, he sent in 1000 yuan.
等到 1 月 21 日，他终于见到了女儿，又送了 2000 元。
On January 21st, he finally met his daughter and gave him another 2,000 yuan.
「管教干警都戴着口罩，我女儿说，她们服刑人员都没发口罩。
"The corrections officers were wearing masks and my daughter said none of them wore masks," she said.
」郝风楼回忆道，他自己对「那个病」没什么概念，所以 21 日会见那天，一家人都没戴口罩。
Hao recalled that he had no idea of "the disease," so on the 21st day of the interview, the family did not wear a mask.
不料，两天后的凌晨 2 时，消息传来，武汉将于 8 小时后「封城」， 23 日 10 时。
However, two days later at 2 a.m., news came that Wuhan will be "closed" in eight hours, 23 at 10: 00.
这一天，张王宏来到广州看守所，他是广强律师事务所合伙人、金融犯罪辩护与研究中心主任。
On this day, Zhang Wang Hong came to Guangzhou Detention Centre, he is a partner in Guangqiang Law Firm, director of the Center for Financial Crime Advocacy and Research.
在会见室，他见到了穿浅粉色绒线外套、手被拷着的兰花花，这是他 4 个月来和这位当事人的第 15 次会见。
In the interview room, he saw blue flowers handcuffed in a light pink suede coat, his 15th meeting with the client in four months.
看守所羁押对象不能与外界通电话或会见，只可以通过律师会见，张王宏便成了 49 岁的兰花花和 70 岁的丈夫唯一的连线。
Detention facility detainees can not communicate with the outside world by telephone or interview, but only through lawyers, Zhang Wang Hong became 49-year-old Lanhua and her 70-year-old husband the only connection.
当问到看守所如何疫情防护时，兰花花的答案让张王宏有点意外：「哦，就是每人发了一包板蓝根，很小的一包。
When asked about how the ward was protected against the epidemic, the answer surprised Zhang: "Oh, everyone sent a packet of Banlangen, a very small package.
」这让张王宏想起 2003 年，非典时他在广州火车站派出所工作，发板蓝根也是单位福利之一。
"This reminded Zhang that in 2003, when he was working at the Guangzhou railway station, his salary was one of the unit benefits.
在他会见的此刻，广东省启动重大突发公共卫生事件一级响应。
At the moment of his meeting, Guangdong launched a major public health emergency first-level response.
「封城」第二天， 1 月 24 日，湖北省将重大公共卫生事件二级响应提升为一级响应，监狱系统也随之响应。
The following day, January 24, Hubei Province upgraded its secondary response to a major public health event to a primary one, and the prison system responded accordingly.
1 月 25 日，湖北监狱系统进入战时状态，启动封闭值班机制，罪犯亲属会见一律停止。
On 25 January, the Hubei prison system entered into a state of war and the closed-duty mechanism was activated.
「上一次战时状态，还是非典。
"The last wartime state was SARS.
」山东临沂的一名监狱干警跟「偶尔治愈」说。
A prison police officer in Linyi, Shandong province, said "occasionally cured."
各省情况不一，四川、黑龙江、吉林三省监狱，是在 2 月 22 日，也就是监狱疫情曝光后，才进入战时管理状态。
The situation varies from province to province, and Sichuan, Heilongjiang and Jilin prisons went into wartime management only on February 22, when the outbreak of the disease came to light.
17 年不遇的战时状态，让监狱干警和狱医们觉察到不一样的气息。
The 17-year-old wartime state made the prison police and jailers aware of a different atmosphere.
1 月 26 日，叶丹艳在帮单位领取物资，她是武汉某监狱狱医，去了好几趟武汉市红十字会仓库。
On January 26, Ye Danyan was collecting supplies for her unit. She was a prison doctor in Wuhan and went to Wuhan Red Cross warehouse several times.
身边是一箱箱的防护用品，她接到电话通知，要她回单位，准备封闭备勤。
Next to her was a crate of protective gear. She received a phone call asking her to return to work, ready to close off the standby.
黄程里是湖北荆州监狱狱医，他接到封闭备勤的消息是 1 月 24 日。
Huang Zhengli, a prison doctor at Jingzhou prison in Hubei Province, received word of the closure on January 24.
他跟「偶尔治愈」说，一开始他就向监狱反映，要准备好足够的舍间作隔离，「我们腾空了一层楼」。
He told "The Occasional Healer" that from the beginning he had told the prison to have enough rooms ready for isolation. "We have cleared a floor."
任城监狱二级警长王庆刚，大年初三刚下班到家，到狱内封闭执勤的通知就到了。
Ren Cheng prison sergeant Wang Qinggang, just after work on the third day of the New Year, to the prison closed the notice of duty.
任城监狱第一批封闭管理的 80 名干警于 1 月 27 日 17 时 30 分集体进驻。
At 1730 hours on 27 January, the first group of 80 gendarmes in Ren Cheng prison, under closed supervision, arrived.
隔离观察，成了入监管区前的标配，监狱干警和服刑人员同样待遇，唯一的例外是第一批狱警。
Isolation was the norm before admission to the penal colony, and the same treatment was given to prison guards and prisoners, with the exception of the first group of prison guards.
监狱启动「三班隔离三班倒」警务运行模式，将干警分为三班，第一批直接进监管区内封闭执勤，第二批在监所隔离区隔离 14 天，核酸检测为阴性后，进入监管区接替第一批工作，然后第一批再隔离 14 天，无恙后才能回家。
The prison launched the "three shifts" police operation model, which divided the police into three shifts, with the first batch being placed under closed guard inside the colony for the first time, the second being quarantined for 14 days and the second being negative for nucleic acid testing.
2 月 7 日，上海新收犯监狱新成立的临时新收隔离监区完成首次罪犯收押工作，这批新收罪犯需要隔离观察 14 天。
On February 7, the newly established temporary confinement ward of Shanghai New Inmate Prison completed its first time in custody, requiring 14 days of quarantine.
「在第一批封闭管教人员里，不排除一部分人已经处于潜伏感染状态，那么这部分人就成为了传染源。
"In the first batch of closed correctional officers, it is not excluded that some people are already latent infection, then this part of the population becomes the source of infection.
」辽宁沈阳的狱医梁剑宝跟「偶尔治愈」说，他也是第一批封闭执勤，在大年初一开始。
Jianbao, a prison doctor in Shenyang, Liaoning Province, said he was also one of the first to close off duty on New Year's Day.
河北保定某监狱的第二批干警，是在一处保密场所进行隔离。
Hebei Baoding a prison of a second batch of dry police, is in a secret place for isolation.
该监狱狱医赵子晔对「偶尔治愈」说，那原来是高考前给负责出卷的老师，以及负责试卷印刷的工作人员住的。
The prison doctor Zhao ZiYe told "Occasional Healing" that it was given to the teacher who took the exam and to the staff responsible for printing the paper.
「如果有外出旅行史等，危险等级高一点的，隔离时就优先住单间，家里有医务人员的也如此。
"If there is a history of travel, such as a higher level of risk, isolation will be preferred to a single room, as will the medical staff at home.
其他人就三四人一间。
The others shared a room for three or four.
」浙江杭州一名监狱干警跟「偶尔治愈」说。
"A prison superintendent in Hangzhou, Zhejiang, spoke with" Occasional Healing.
疫情期间的第二次看守所会见，发生在 2 月 5 日，张王宏律师没想到他预约广州看守所那么顺利。
The second meeting of the detention center during the epidemic took place on February 5, when Zhang Wang Hong did not expect that he had made such a smooth appointment with Guangzhou Detention Center.
彼时，北京看守所除开庭外已限制会见，河南等省份暂停所有会见。
At that time, the Beijing detention center had restricted meetings except for court sessions, and Henan and other provinces suspended all meetings.
坐在他对面的兰花花戴上了口罩。
The blue flower opposite him put on a mask.
跟 1 月 23 日不同的是，往日得排队的会见室，始终空荡荡的，十多间会见室，一眼望去，只有两间有人。
Unlike on 23 January, the parlour, which had formerly been lined up, remained deserted, with only two of the ten or so rooms visible.
张王宏发现看守所防疫措施在逐渐加强，2 月 20 日再会见时，会见室原来是栅栏隔开的，如今栅栏之外加了一层透明塑胶作间隔。
When he met again on February 20, the interview room was originally separated by a fence, and now a layer of transparent plastic has been added to the fence.
防控如此森严，很多人认为，监狱是疫情期间最安全的地方。
Control is so tight that many people think prisons are the safest place to be during an outbreak.
新浪网转载 2003 年 5 月 19 日《黑龙江日报》刊登一封叫《我在这里最安全》的信，是亚沟监狱犯人刘会礼写给妻子的。
May 19, 2003, the Heilongjiang Daily published a letter called "I am the safest here," written by Liu YiLi, a prisoner in Yagou prison.
「对于非典，这里成了最安全的地方。
"This is the safest place for SARS.
监狱实行全封闭管理，没有任何死角。
Prisons are completely closed and there are no dead ends.
我在这比你都安全.....」刘会礼写道，当时他即将刑满出狱。
I'm safer here than you... "Liu wrote as he was about to serve his sentence.
据报道，非典时期，北京监狱系统无一人感染。
No one in the Beijing prison system was reported to have been infected during SARS.
没人想到，人们对监狱的「刻板印象」，即将打破。
No one expected that the "stereotype" of prisons would be broken.
暴雷任城监狱官方公众号于2 月 11 日发文《任城监狱硬核请战，再请战！》，配有一张盖满 80 个鲜红手印的请战书。
Thunder Ren City prison official public on February 11 issue of the message "Ren Cheng prison hard core, please war again!" with a cover of 80 scarlet handprints of the invitation letter.
第一名干警被确诊前三天，任城监狱第一批封闭管理的 80 名干警签约请战书。
Three days before the first police officer was diagnosed, Ren Cheng Jail's first batch of 80 closed management of the application letter signed.
来源：任城监狱官方公众号有人忍住腹痛推迟手术，有人长期睡眠不足导致血压飙升，有人让消毒水腐蚀脱皮.....文章说，捷报传来，已经取得了这场疫情防控阻击战的阶段性胜利。
http: / / www.rr365.com [/ b] www.rr365.com [/ color] www.rr365.com [/ color] www.rr365.com [/ color] www.rr365.com [/ color] www.rr365.com [/ b] www.rr365.com [/ b] www.rr365.com [/ b] www.rr365.com [/ b] www.rr365.com [/ b] www.rr365.com
一天后，形势转瞬即下。
A day later, the situation was instantaneous.
据新任山东省监狱管理局党委书记、局长吴磊介绍， 2 月初，任城监狱就有干警出现咳嗽症状。
According to the new Shandong Provincial Prison Administration Party Secretary, Director Wu Lei said, in early February, there were dry police coughing symptoms.
2 月 12 日下午，一值班干警因咳嗽到医院就诊，被隔离收治。
On the afternoon of 12 February, a duty officer went to the hospital with a cough and was hospitalized in isolation.
第二天晚上 22 时，他被确诊。
At 2200 hours the following night, he was diagnosed.
也是在 13 日，当晚 18 时，又一名备勤干警被确诊。
Also on the 13th, at 1800 hours, another backup officer was diagnosed.
当晚 23 时，山东省委、省政府接到报告后，组织有关方面对相关区域进行封闭管理，排查、筛查、隔离、救治。
At 2300 hours, Shandong Provincial Committee, the provincial government received the report, the relevant authorities to organize the closed management of the relevant areas, screening, isolation, treatment.
1 月 27 日 17 时 30 分，任城监狱第一批 80 名封闭管理干警进驻监管区。
On 27 January, at 1730 hours, the first group of 80 closed superintendents of Ren Cheng prison entered the detention area.
来源：任城监狱官方公众号据媒体报道，首个发病的干警有家人途径武汉返乡，他和第二个发病的干警在执勤期间同屋。
Source: Ren Cheng Prison Official Public Number According to media reports, the first case of dry police have their family way back home in Wuhan, he and the second case of dry police officers while on duty.
2 月 6 日、 9 日，这两名干警先后发热，却在 10 日被允许自行回家隔离，这被有关方面认为是任城监狱疫情防控失责的表现。
On February 6 and 9, the two policemen had a fever, but on February 10 was allowed to go home to quarantine, which is regarded as the Nengcheng prison disease control failure performance.
一名济宁市民向「偶尔治愈」展示了她所住小区的紧急通知，让任城监狱、鲁西监狱、里彦电厂的业主尽快报备。
A Jining citizen showed off the emergency notice of her neighbourhood to the "occasional cure," allowing the owners of Ren Cheng, Lusi and Rihiyan power plants to report as soon as possible.
里彦电厂在鲁西监狱隔壁，鲁西煤矿在任城监狱隔壁，原本属于监狱企业。
The Rihiyan plant is next to Rusi prison, and the Lusi mine is next door to Ren Cheng prison, which used to belong to a prison enterprise.
2 月 14 日起，政府开始排查并隔离任城监狱密切接触人员,公务员小区任兴家园和舜泰园是重点。
Beginning on 14 February, the Government began to screen and isolate close contacts at Ren Cheng Prison, with a focus on Ren Hing Home and Shun Tai Yuen.
6 名确诊干警中，有 4名住任兴家园，2 名住舜泰园。
Of the six confirmed police constables, four lived in Ren Xing's home and two in Shun Tai Yuen.
此时，监狱发生感染的消息还没公布，传言一度让一些济宁市民倍感惊慌，比如华都金色兰庭小区的业主，小区对面就是鲁西监狱。
At this point, the prison infection has not yet been announced, rumors that some Jinning residents, such as the owner of China's Golden Landing District, across the street from Rusi prison.
一夜间，当地部分微信群解散。
One night, some local micro-groups disbanded.
随着官方公布消息，传言被辟谣。
Rumours were dismissed as the official news spread.
监狱干警被确诊一事，最早是在浙江出现。
The case of the prison superintendent was first diagnosed in Zhejiang Province.
衢州市卫健委通报， 1 月 28 日确诊的一名男性患者， 37 岁， 1 月 19 日从武汉回衢州， 1 月 23 日出现咳嗽咳痰， 1 月 25 日晚，他被送至医院，体温正常。
Quzhou Fitness and Health Commission informs that a male patient, 37 years old, who was diagnosed on January 28 and returned to Quzhou from Wuhan on January 19, coughed up phlegm on January 23, and was taken to hospital with normal temperature on the night of January 25.
据知情人跟「偶尔治愈」透露，这名患者是浙江省十里丰监狱干警，直至被疾控部门致电监狱要求其前往配合检测后，监狱才掌握情况并上报。
According to the source and "occasionally cured", the patient is Zhejiang 10 Li Feng prison police, until the CDC called the prison to cooperate with the test, the prison information and reported.
据衢州市卫健委通报， 2 月 10 日衢州新增确诊病例 6 例，均为无外出史，这 6 人发病日期从 1 月 28 日到 2 月 6 日不等。
According to the report of the Quzhou Health Care Commission, on February 10, there were 6 newly diagnosed cases on Quzhou, all of which have no history of going out.
直到 2 月 21 日，随着监狱疫情被公开，这些在此前官方通报中并未透露与监狱有关的病例，才为人所关注。
Until 21 February, these prison-related cases, which had not been disclosed in previous official circulars, were of concern as the prison outbreak became public.
可这只是干警的。
But it's just a cop.
山东省和浙江省都表示，此前确诊的干警已统计在当地病例中，但服刑人员的数字，是第一次集中性对外公布。
Shandong and Zhejiang provinces said previously confirmed dry police officers have been counted in the local case, but the number of people serving sentences is the first centralized public release.
「我省监狱没有接入传染病疫情网络报告系统， 2 月 20 日夜接到监狱部门手工报卡后，才纳入地区统计数据。
"The provincial prison did not have access to the network reporting system for infectious diseases. Only after receiving manual report cards from the prison authorities on the night of February 20 were we able to include regional statistics.
」湖北省卫健委解释。
Hubei Wei Jiancheng explained.
专家认为，监狱医院、省监狱管理局防疫站和疾控中心间，信息资源暂未实现实时互通共享。
Experts believe that the prison hospital, the provincial prison administration station and the CDC, information resources have not achieved real-time sharing.
监狱如何与地方政府的应急指挥系统衔接、避免接受双重指挥，便成了难题。
How to link prisons to the emergency command system of local governments and avoid dual command becomes a challenge.
河北省石家庄狱医赵子晔介绍道，监狱是省级直管单位，「可能存在这样的情况，省局报到省疾控中心，但下级疾控单位不知道」。
Hebei Province Shijiazhuang prison doctor Zhao ZiYe introduced that the prison is a provincial-level straight management unit, "there may be such a situation, provincial CDC, but lower level CDC units do not know."
个别干警的一个念头，就让其他同事所有的付出化为乌有。
An idea of individual police officers, let all the other colleagues pay to naught.
据官方通报，浙江十里丰监狱一名民警刻意隐瞒去过武汉、继续上班。
According to official reports, Zhejiang Ten Lifeng prison a civilian police deliberately concealed to go to Wuhan, continue to work.
湖北沙洋汉津监狱一名干警，未如实报告生活轨迹。
Hubei Shayang Han Jin prison, a dry police, did not report the true track of life.
「所有干警封闭前检测核酸？你得看当时省里有没有那个能力。
"All dry police detect nucleic acids before they close? You have to see if there's that capability in the province.
所以人力是很难防范的。
So manpower is very difficult to guard against.
现在出了事，社会一顿骂，最终就是监狱干警和狱医背锅，自认倒霉。
Now when things go wrong, society will scold, is the prison superintendent and the prison back pot, admit bad luck to oneself.
」梁剑宝认为，各级财政对监狱投入有限，监狱医院建设严重落后。
"Liang Jianbao believes that financial input to prisons at all levels is limited and that the construction of prison hospitals is seriously backward.
相比地方医院，狱医没有技术职级、没有职称晋升机会，在职务晋升机会和待遇上也不如管教，「说我们医院光花单位的钱，监区有劳动，能给单位创收。
Compared to local hospitals, prison doctors have no technical rank, no job title promotion opportunities, and are inferior to discipline in terms of job promotion opportunities and treatment.
」监狱干警最先倒下，这让本就因为分批排班而警力短缺的监狱捉襟见肘。
Prison superintendents were the first to fall, straining a prison that was already short of police because of batches.
司法部监狱管理局调动多省驰援湖北监狱系统，至少在 2 月 8 日就已开始布置。
The Prison Administration of the Ministry of Justice mobilized many provinces to assist the Hubei prison system, which had been in place since at least 8 February.
通知是在 2 月 8 日深夜来的。
The notice came late on the 8th of February.
当时，湖南郴州监狱医院副主任护师李燕即将结束第一批封闭值班。
Li Yan, deputy director of Chenzhou prison hospital in Hunan province, was about to end his first closed duty.
到监狱门口接妻子回家的丈夫，以为李燕是要回家休息，当得知她拿几身衣服、准备去湖北时，丈夫陷入了沉思。
The husband, who was picking up his wife at the prison gate, thought Li Yan was going home to rest. When he learned that she was taking some clothes to Hubei, her husband was deep in thought.
随后，李燕向组织递交请战书，按下鲜红的手印。
Subsequently, Li Yan submitted an invitation to the organization, pressing the bright red fingerprint.
22 名湖南监狱干警全为女性，得在湖南省女子监狱集中隔离 14 天，方能前往湖北执行任务。
All 22 Hunan prison police are women and must be held incommunicado for 14 days at Hunan women's prison before they can go on mission to Hubei.
2 月 23 日，隔离结束，她们由长沙出发。
On 23 February, the isolation ended and they set out from Changsha.
出发前，每位队员注射了提高免疫力的胸腺肽注射液。
Prior to departure, each team member was given an immune booster thymopeptide injection.
她们知道，要面对的，是担心被感染的犯人，焦虑而敏感。
They know that they have to deal with the fear of infected prisoners, anxious and sensitive.
「管教与服刑人员间的接触频繁，一个犯人，一天平均要接触 6 名干警。
"Contacts between correctional officers and prisoners are frequent, with an average of six gendarmes per day for each prisoner.
」赵子晔说，犯人进行任何活动都必须至少三个人一起，连上厕所都是。
"Zhao ZiYe said that all work carried out by the prisoners needed to be carried out by at least three men together.
可一些规矩在应疫情而变，停止一切跨监区行为，缩小活动单元，分批活动，错时就餐。
But some rules change in response to the epidemic, stop all cross-prison behavior, reduce activity units, batch activities, staggered meals.
「尽管她们犯过错，还是希望能公平对待」一个人带着襁褓中的女儿，借钱度日，赵瑞这个正月过得浑浑噩噩，终于等来了丈夫的消息。
"Despite their mistakes, they still want to be fair" a man with a baby daughter, borrowing money to live, Zhao Rui this month led a rotten month, finally waiting for news of her husband.
2 月 26 日，身在外省的赵瑞，接到来自山东某市司法局的通知，她丈夫被确诊了。
February 26, in the province of Zhao Rui, received from a Shandong City Department of Justice notice, her husband was diagnosed.
这让她不敢相信，两天前，她丈夫户籍所在地的村支书，口头通知她婆婆，丈夫情况还好。
She could not believe that, two days earlier, her husband had verbally informed her mother-in-law that her husband was well.
「孩子生下来以后，他只见过一面，还是他在法庭受审时。
"Since the child was born, he has seen it only once, when he was tried in court.
」 30 岁的赵瑞说。
"said Zhao Rui, 30.
她丈夫因经济犯罪，被判刑 7 年。
Her husband was sentenced to seven years' imprisonment for economic crimes.
2 月 26 日，市司法局的一名工作人员添加了赵瑞的微信，要求微信视频聊天，让赵瑞持身份证确认，说会给赵瑞邮寄告知书，告知她丈夫确诊。
On 26 February, a staff member of the Municipal Justice Bureau added a letter from Zhao Rui requesting a video chat, asking him to hold an identity card to confirm that he would send a letter to Zhao Rui informing her of her husband's diagnosis.
赵瑞听了，无法自制地嚎啕大哭，把孩子都吓到了，她就抱着孩子一起哭。
Zhao Rui listened, unable to restrain the crying, frightened the child, she hugged the child to cry together.
赵瑞要求跟监狱直接联系， 2 月 26 日 17 时 53 分，工作人员发微信给赵瑞，「任城监狱干警已全部替换，原干警都在隔离状态，邹城市来的干警对情况都不了解，也无法给你提供电话。
Zhao Rui asked for direct contact with the prison. On February 26, at 17: 53, staff sent a letter to Zhao Rui, "Ren Cheng prison police have all been replaced, the former dry police are in isolation, Zou city to the police do not know the situation, nor can provide you with a telephone.
（你丈夫）在隔离治疗，我们也无法与他取得联系，抱歉」。
[Your husband] is in quarantine and we can't get in touch with him either. Sorry. "
2 月 21 日，对刘霞蔚是个浸满泪水的日子。
February 21, Liu Xia Wei is a day full of tears.
前一年，孩子离她而去，而这一年，远方的丈夫，又蒙上阴影。
The year before, the child left her, and this year, the distant husband, again cast a shadow.
自 1 月 8 日丈夫入狱以后，她就再无他的音讯，「我天天都在哭」，刘霞蔚对「偶尔治愈」说。
Since her husband went to prison on January 8, she has not heard from him any more. "I cry every day," Liu said of the "occasional cure."
监狱疫情的消息，让她又添新愁。
The news of the prison outbreak added to her anxiety.
2 月 24 日，她第一次致电汉津监狱，监狱跟她核对家属入监时间、身份证及户籍地等信息后，要她等回复。
On 24 February, she called Hanjin prison for the first time, where she was asked to wait for a reply after checking information on the family's time of admission, identity card and place of residence.
第二天，监狱来电，告知她丈夫目前是健康的。
The next day, the prison called and told her husband that he was healthy.
她想知道丈夫在哪个监区，疫情是否发生在丈夫所在的监区，什么时候能探监，「可他们什么都没说，说都是保密信息」。
She wanted to know where the husband was held, whether the outbreak had occurred in his cell block and when he had been able to visit him, "but they said nothing and said it was confidential."
幸福的家庭都是相似的，不幸的家庭各有各的不幸。
All happy families are like one another; each unhappy family is unhappy in its own way.
自从 2019 年 3 月女儿被捕后，郝风楼放弃了在山东的工作，研究法律。
Since her daughter's arrest in March 2019, Hao Feng Lou has abandoned her job in Shandong to study law.
「和我女儿一样，她们也是母亲，也是妻子，也是女儿。
"Like my daughters, they are mothers, wives and daughters.
」郝风楼给武汉女子监狱打了两个电话，说法并不一样，第一个电话对方说，「现在监狱里那么严重，谁也不准打电话」；而第二个电话对方则说，「会让每个人能和家属取得联系」。
"Hao Feng Lou made two different calls to Wuhan Women's Prison. The first caller said," No one is allowed to make a phone call because the prison is so serious.
因为假冒注册商标，乔尤野的妈妈被判了 1 年 8 个月，如今，55 岁的她，剩 1 年刑期。
Her mother was sentenced to one year and eight months for counterfeiting a registered trademark, and now, 55, she has one year to go.
从 2018 年 7 月妈妈被捕，她从始至终没有接到过妈妈的电话。
From July 2018, when her mother was arrested, she never heard from her mother.
看守所不允许家属探监，她只是在开庭时，远远地见了妈妈一面，无法对话。
Family visits were not allowed in the detention centre, and she only saw her mother at a distance during the court session and was unable to speak.
「按照法律，可以在服刑人员离开看守所前，允许家人通电话或者探监，但黄石第一看守所没通知过我。
"According to the law, family members may be allowed to telephone or visit prisoners before they leave the detention centre, but I have not been notified of this at Wong Shek Detention Centre.
」乔尤野说。
"said Joyano.
自 1 月 20 日妈妈离开看守所后，乔尤野一直在努力打探她的去向。
Joyano has been trying to find out where her mother has been since she left the prison on January 20.
通过律师找法官，她才问到了武汉女子监狱的联系方式，但监狱一直不告诉她妈妈所在的监区。
The lawyer approached the judge and she asked for the contact details of Wuhan Women's Prison, but the prison never told her where her mother was.
从 2 月 10 日开始，乔尤野多次致电监狱，对方的答复往往是，不告诉监区，则无法查询。
Beginning on 10 February, Joyue made several phone calls to the prison, often responding that access would not be possible without informing the cell block.
长久的期盼，在得知监狱疫情那一刻化为惊慌，乔尤野那几天成宿成宿失眠。
Long-awaited, in the knowledge of the outbreak of the prison turned into panic, Yoyo wild those days into a sleepless night.
2 月 24 日，她终于接到监狱打过来的电话，对方告诉她，她母亲健康。
On 24 February, she finally received a telephone call from the prison informing her of her mother's health.
乔尤野问：未感染的服刑人员和感染的完全分开了吗？对方反问了她一句：这个应该不需要我向你汇报吧？电话随之挂断，通话时间 49 秒，她存有录音。
Is the uninfected prisoner completely separated from the infected one? The other asks her, Shouldn't I report this to you? The phone hangs up and for 49 seconds, she has a recording.
种种和监狱沟通上的不舒畅，让一些服刑人员家属心怀不满，「监狱是有责任的」。
A variety of prison communication difficulties, so that some inmates' families dissatisfied with the "prison is responsible."
「原本以为最安全的监狱，万万没想到会被病毒侵入，他们在里面是多么的无助。
"Originally thought to be the safest prison, did not expect to be invaded by the virus, they are in how helpless.
」刘霞蔚说。
"said Karen Liu.
乔尤野说，她希望能听到妈妈亲口报平安，电话一周一次就好。
'I wish I could hear my mother calling once a week, 'he said.
「 2 月 20 日，转诊了 11 名武汉女子监狱的职工进入我们医院危重隔离病房住院。
"On February 20, 11 Wuhan women's prison staff were referred to the critical isolation ward of our hospital.
」武汉大学人民医院医生李翰昭对「偶尔治愈」说，这是家属们目前唯一知道的服刑人员安置医院。
Li Han-chao, a doctor at Wuhan University's People's Hospital, told The Occasional Healing that it was the only known hospital for inmates.
丈夫一直给赵瑞以希望，入狱后马上当了狱舍长，常常跟她说，积极改造、争取表扬、力争减刑。
Her husband, who had always given Zhao hope, became a prison warden immediately after his imprisonment, often told her to actively reform, win praise, and strive to commute the sentence.
「我希望监狱能给确诊的服刑人员一个说法。
"I hope the prison will give a statement to the convicted prisoner.
服刑期间确诊，即使治愈了，也得经历很多痛苦，无缘无故的从鬼门关走了一遭，以后还面临着未知的后遗症。
The diagnosis, even if cured, had to go through a lot of pain, for no reason at all from the door to the death, and later face unknown after-effects.
」赵瑞说，丈夫之前得过肺气肿，她特别害怕丈夫肺部会有后遗症，。
Zhao said her husband had had emphysema before, and she was particularly afraid of sequelae in her husband's lungs.
「注意身体，以后的路还长。
"Watch your body. The road ahead is long.
」这是刘霞蔚一直想着，和丈夫恢复联系后，要说的话。
"This is what Karen Liu has been thinking about when she resumes her relationship with her husband.
「熬不住了才换」「真实的监狱与我以为的监狱，到底有多大区别。
"It doesn't matter" "How different is a real prison from what I thought it was.
」周阳辉报考了浙江某监狱的法律(二级警长及以下）岗位，潜心备考的他，先是得知，考试推迟了，后来又被监狱感染事件所震撼，「警察梦」有所犹豫。
"Zhou Yanghui applied for a prison in Zhejiang Province (second-class police superintendent and below) post, the preoccupied with the test, first learned that the examination was postponed, then shocked by the prison infection," police dream "hesitated.
浙江省公务员考试笔试原定于 2 月 22 日- 23 日举行，推迟的公告在 1 月 29 日宣布，具体笔试时间待定。
The written test for civil servants in Zhejiang Province was scheduled to be held from February 22 to 23. The postponed announcement was announced on January 29.
他的心也随之悬起。
Then came his heart.
被推迟待定的，还有第二批执勤干警的出监日。
Deferred to be determined, there is a second batch of duty dry police out of prison days.
赵子晔说，因为多地监狱暴发疫情，她所在的监狱已接到通知，第二批执勤警察原定的出监行程被取消。
Zhao ZiYe said that due to outbreaks of disease in many prisons, her prison had been notified and the scheduled departure of the second batch of police officers on duty was cancelled.
而第三批干警在隔离 21 天后，入监区执勤，但第二批换班后，依旧得在监区内隔离。
After 21 days of isolation, the third batch of gendarmes were on duty in the cell block, but remained isolated in the cell after a second shift.
2 月 22 日，司法部规定实施新的执勤模式，全国监狱实行一战到底，即到疫情结束为止，监内值班警察不再轮换。
On 22 February, the Ministry of Justice mandated the implementation of a new operational model whereby the country's prisons would follow through with World War I, whereby the on-duty police would not rotate until the end of the epidemic.
这意味着很多地方的第二批封闭干警得继续执勤，而在山东省、湖北省，全省第一批封闭的干警都不进行警务轮换。
This means that in many places the second batch of closed dry police have to remain on duty, while in Shandong Province and Hubei Province, the first batch of closed dry police throughout the province do not carry out police rotation.
「我老公单位有一对夫妻都是干警，老婆第二批被关着，老公第三批被隔离着，不进不出，就这么僵持着，家里娃娃只好送回老家。
"There was a couple of policewomen at my husband's office. His wife was locked up for the second time, and her husband was quarantined.
」四川一名狱警家属对「偶尔治愈」说。
"Occasionally cured," said a member of the guard's family in Sichuan.
据了解，上海监狱系统目前在防控一线的人员中，民警夫妻有近 200 对，警医夫妻有 100 多对。
It is understood that the Shanghai prison system in the prevention and control of front-line personnel, nearly 200 couples of police couples, more than 100 couples of police doctors.
「连续工作 70 天，只要在监区都要做到目光在犯人身上，夜班瞪眼班……」一名监狱干警对「偶尔治愈」说，「一战到底」意味着几个人做的事全落到他一个人头上，其他人的分工他不会的，得硬着头皮学，「你说我头大不头大？」「平时一个月两次夜班，现在是每天都是夜班，夜班完可以休息 3 小时。
"After 70 days of continuous work, as long as you keep your eye on the prisoner in the cell block, night shift staring class..." A prison superintendent told "Occasionally cured," that "the end of World War I" meant that he alone would not do what others did.
外面有隔离到期的，也不让轮换，这样下来，我和他得两个月见不到了。
There was a quarantine expiration outside, and there was no rotation, so he and I couldn't see each other for two months.
」曾嘉欣对「偶尔治愈」说，她丈夫是江西的一名狱警， 1 月 29 日离家，先隔离 14 天，又进监管区执勤 14 天。
"Occasionally cured," Ms. Tsang said her husband, a prison guard in Jiangxi province, left home on January 29 for 14 days in isolation and 14 days in the detention area.
监狱疫情曝光后，她丈夫被通知第三批不用进监区，第二批一直值班到疫情结束。
After the outbreak came to light, her husband was told not to go into prison for the third time and remained on duty until the end of the epidemic.
曾嘉欣是护士，经常上夜班，根本顾不上家里，孩子 1 岁了，「谈恋爱时，他拿针线帮我补裤子，我就想一定要嫁给他。
Zeng Jiaxin is a nurse who often works night shifts without caring for her family. The child is one year old. "When I was in love, he helped me mend my pants with a needle and thread.
平时生活缴费都是丈夫交钱，今天燃气没有了，我都不知道怎么办」。
peacetime payment is the husband to pay money, today gas is no longer available, I do not know how to do. "
「我男朋友大年初二被召回，一直到现在，三天一个夜班，夜班之后第二天照常上班。
"My boyfriend was recalled on the second day of the New Year and has been working all night for three days and the next day.
」吉林一名狱警家属对「偶尔治愈」说，平时监狱留宿的少，床位有限，他们只能睡会议桌、睡门板，临时床只有 1 米 6 ，可他 1 米 8。
A Jilin prison guard's family told "The Occasional Healer" that the prison was sparsely populated with limited beds, and that they could only sleep at conference tables and sleeping slabs, with makeshift beds of only 1.6 metres, but he was 1.8 metres.
黄程里说，她已处于备勤隔离一个月了，不知道为何还不入监换班，上头说是潜伏期延长，不按原来方案了。
Zodiac said she had been in quarantine for a month and did not know why she had not been transferred to prison.
随着多地监狱爆发疫情，让被感染的和依旧在一线的监狱干警迎来一场舆论风暴，其中的冷眼和嘲讽，让他们感到悲凉。
With the outbreak of many prisons, infected and still on the front line of the prison police usher in a storm of public opinion, in which the cold eyes and mockery, let them feel sad.
「监狱干警和医护工作者都因为疫情不能回家，可在大家眼里，一个是魔鬼，一个是天使。
"Prison police and medical workers are unable to return home because of the outbreak, but in the eyes of the public, one is a devil and the other an angel.
」曾嘉欣说，她一直在疫情一线。
"She has been on the frontlines of the epidemic," she said.
图源：山东省任城监狱微信公众号「愿君平安归，送尔温暖抱。
Figure: Shandong Ren Cheng prison micro-letter public ship "I wish you safe return, send you warm embrace."
」任城监狱干警王庆刚的妻子徐雪丰医生说。
"Ren Cheng prison superintendent Wang Qinggang's wife Dr. Xu Xuefeng said.
「里面没有出现问题就不换班」「熬不住了才换」，此前，多名狱警被问到什么情况能脱离值勤时，如此答道。
"No problem, no shift." Before, a number of warders were asked what would take them off duty, and so replied.
2 月 13 日凌晨 2 点，四川邑州监狱民警张珲在连续值班备勤 17 天后离世，年仅 49 岁。
At 2: 00 a.m. on Feb. 13, Zhang Hui, a police officer of Sichuan Yi State Prison, died at the age of 49 after 17 days of continuous duty.
2 月 20 日，宜州监狱警察覃碧在执行集中隔离备勤任务中殉职，年仅 46 岁。
On Feb. 20, Ikea prison police, Morgan Chum, is 46 years old, while on intensive duty.
监狱疫情的风波还在蔓延。
The prison epidemic is still raging.
据「武汉发布」2 月 25 日称，汉津监狱民警姚刚，被作为全国劳模（先进个人）推荐人选，于 2 月 20 日到 24 日公示。
Yao Gang, a police officer from the Hanjin prison, was recommended by the state-run model (advanced individual) for public display from February 20 to 24, Wuhan said on February 25.
2 月 27 日湖北省总工会发布，经开会研究决定，不再将姚刚作为拟推荐人选，因为他所在单位发生疫情。
February 27, Hubei Province, the General Union of Trade Unions issued a decision after the meeting decided not to recommend Yao Gang as a candidate, because of his unit outbreak.
「姚刚何错之有？这种武断、不问情由一棍子打翻一船人的做法真的令人心寒。
"What's wrong with Yao Gang? This arbitrary, unasked-for-tat approach to overthrowing a boat is really chilling.
」一名狱警为他打抱不平。
"One of the guards hugged him.
（除张王宏外，其他受访者均为化名）（主笔更多好文，可点击「阅读原文」）作者：郑宇钧、杨媛编辑：于陆封面图来源：站酷海洛—Tips—我们的新书《生死之间》出版了可识别下方图片中的二维码购买偶尔治愈to-cure-sometimes——记录人与疾病、衰老、死亡的相处方式偶尔治愈 | 常常帮助 | 总是安慰。
(All respondents except Zhang are aliases) (More excellent articles can be found in 'Reading the Original Text') by: Zheng Yujun and Yang Yuan, editor: Yu-jun and Yang Yuan. Our new book, "Between Life and Death," publishes two-dimensional code purchases that recognize the occasional cure to disease, aging, and death.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫起高墙 |  3 省 5 监狱确诊 555 例背后的人情冷暖。
At & quot; 3 provincial prisons & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "偶尔治愈";。
Var nickname = & quot; occasionally cured & quot;;
var msg_title = "疫起高墙 |  3 省 5 监狱确诊 555 例背后的人情冷暖";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "当疫情撞上高墙电网，铁窗内外，谁的泪在飞？";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Whose tears flew when the outbreak hit a high-walled electrical grid, inside or outside a window?;
var title ="偶尔治愈";。
var title = & quot; occasionally cured & quot;;
