在人间丨我在电话这头，试图帮武汉人平复“被现实打蒙的感觉”。
On the human side, I try to help Wuhan people calm down "feeling overwhelmed by reality."
在人间。
In the world.
在人间living                      。
Living on earth.
在人间living。
Living on earth.
用冷静的叙述抵抗冰冷 | 凤凰网在人间工作室出品。
Resist cold & # # 124; & # 45; Order of the Phoenix with a sober narrative.
凤凰新闻客户端 凤凰网在人间工作室出品我是一名普通心理咨询师，在武汉有一家心理工作室。
Phoenix News client Phoenix net in the world studio production I am a general counselor, in Wuhan has a psychological studio.
我也是一名心理工作志愿者，长期服务于武汉一家三甲医院的危机干预热线工作组。
I am also a psychological work volunteer, long-term service in Wuhan a triple A hospital crisis intervention hotline working group.
1月24日，大年除夕，工作组取消休假，恢复接听，30几位成员（包括医院心理科工作人员和志愿者）紧急排班，进入疫情期工作状态。
On the eve of the Lunar New Year on 24 January, the Working Group cancelled its leave and resumed hearings. More than 30 members, including hospital psychologists and volunteers, were placed on an emergency shift to work during the epidemic.
我们工作组可以说是武汉市反应最快的一条心理援助热线。
Our working group can be said to be Wuhan City's fastest psychological assistance hotline.
随后几天，本市民间心理团体、省外心理机构开始组织本行业的资深教授、专家，对临时招募的咨询师进行危机干预培训，陆续开通了多条心理援助热线。
In the following days, the municipal non-governmental psychological organizations and the psychological organizations outside the province began to organize senior professors and experts from their own fields to conduct crisis intervention training for consultants recruited on an ad hoc basis, and a number of psychological assistance hotlines were opened successively.
我本人从武汉“新冠肺炎”疫情发作至今，一直留守在武汉，不仅亲历了整个疫情带给自己的巨大恐慌（见文章《一个武汉心理咨询师这样剥离自己的恐慌》），也有机会见证了卷入到集体恐慌潮中的部分民众的心路历程。
I myself have stayed in Wuhan since the outbreak of "New Crown Pneumonia" in Wuhan, not only have I experienced the great panic brought to me by the epidemic (see The Divorce of a Wuhan Psychologist), but I have also had the opportunity to witness the journey of some people caught up in a wave of mass panic.
我亲身体验过被巨大的恐慌吞噬的无助，也倾听过留守在城里不同人群、不同层级的焦灼恐慌，还有逃离城外的武汉市民，发着烧不敢出门买药，体会到被歧视的无奈、被拒绝的悲愤、有家不能回的绝望。
I have experienced the helplessness engulfed by a great panic, and I have listened to the anxiety of staying behind in the city at different levels and among the Wuhan people who fled the city, burning and afraid to go out to buy medicine.
我发现，无论在城里的人，还是城外的人，乃至整个国家的人，都谈论着同一种病毒、同一种情绪。
I found that people in the city, people outside the city, and people in the whole country talked about the same virus, the same emotions.
我们从未像今天这样紧密相连，休戚相关。
Never before have we been so closely linked.
在这篇文章里，我尝试用心理学的视角，去理解曾经走进危机热线里的一个个鲜活的个体，希望藉由这样的理解，帮助有类似处境的人从心理上找到一个锚定点，尽可能清晰地看见自己身上发生了什么。
In this article, I try to understand, from a psychological point of view, the living individuals who have gone into crisis hotlines, in the hope of helping people in similar situations to find a psychological anchor and see as clearly as possible what is happening to them.
理论上讲，如果我们知道在自己身上发生了什么，这个知道本身会帮助我们获取力量，去直面自己的恐慌、焦虑、愤怒、无助、难过、绝望等各种不良情绪，学会临危不乱，适应困境，学会在艰难的处境里，寻找到宝贵的资源，挽救自己的生命。
In theory, if we know what is happening to us, this knowledge alone will help us gain the strength to face up to our fears, anxieties, anger, helplessness, sadness, despair and other negative emotions, learn to face danger without confusion, adapt to difficulties, learn to find valuable resources in difficult situations, and save our lives.
■小区门口放了专门扔口罩的垃圾箱。
▪ Dedicated garbage bins for face masks have been placed in front of community gates.
替代性创伤简称VT，最初指的是专业心理治疗者，因为长期接触患者，受到了咨访关系的互动影响，而出现了类似病症的现象，即治疗者本人的心理也受到了创伤。
The alternative trauma abbreviation VT, originally refers to a professional psychotherapist who suffers from the interaction of a long-term contact with a patient, while a similar disorder occurs in which the therapist himself or herself is traumatized.
现代临床也指，目击大量残忍、破坏性场景之后，损害程度超过其中部分人群的心理和情绪的耐受极限，间接导致的各种心理异常现象。
Modern clinical practice also refers to a variety of psychological abnormalities indirectly caused by witnessing a large number of cruel and destructive scenes that exceed the psychological and emotional tolerance limits of some of them.
这些异常现象，通常是出于对生还者及其创伤的同情和共情，使自己出现严重的身心困扰，甚至精神崩溃。
These anomalies, often out of sympathy and empathy for the survivors and their trauma, have led to severe physical and psychological distress and even mental breakdown.
■小区附近别的门店紧闭，只有药店开了。
:: Other shops in the neighbourhood are closed, except for pharmacies.
替代性创伤的主要表现：厌食、易疲劳、体能下降、睡眠障碍（难以入睡、易惊醒）、做噩梦、易激惹或易发怒、容易受惊吓、注意力不集中；对自己所经历的一切感到麻木、恐惧、绝望，不明原因的情绪焦躁等，有时伴有创伤反应与人际冲突。
The main manifestations of alternative trauma are anorexia, fatigue, physical deterioration, sleep disorders (difficulty in sleeping and waking), nightmares, irritability or irritability, nervousness, lack of concentration; numbness, fear, despair, unexplained anxiety, sometimes accompanied by traumatic reactions and interpersonal conflict.
我们在做心理援助的时候，会对来电人员做一个分级评估，目的是根据各类人群的心理问题特点提出相应的心理援助策略。
When we do psychological assistance, we do a graded evaluation of the caller, with the aim of proposing psychological assistance strategies based on the characteristics of psychological problems of various groups of people.
分级评估的依据是按照疫情所处的感染风险和可能承受的心理应激强度划分：一级人群：住院的重症患者、一线的医护人员、疾控人员和管理人员；二级人群：居家隔离的轻症患者、疑似者、密切接触者、就诊的发热者；三级人群：一二线人员的家人、亲友、同事等，参加疫情应对的后方救援者、居家医学隔离观察者；四级人群：疫区相关人群、易感人群、普通人群。
The scale of assessment is based on the risk of infection and the intensity of psychological stress that may be experienced by the outbreak: first-degree patients: hospitalized severe patients, first-line health care personnel, disease controllers and managers; second-tier groups: family members, relatives, colleagues of first and second-line personnel, home medical quarantine observers, etc.
■平常人来人往的人行道，没有人，躺卧着三只流浪狗。
There are three stray dogs lying on the sidewalk where people come and go.
根据这个分级人群划分，如果复盘23号的“封城”当晚我所处的情境，会很清晰地看到各个层级的人群在这场风暴中所呈现的状态，以及彼此之间是如何相互拉扯卷入到心理恐慌的风暴中：感染冠状病毒第一批倒下的病人是直接受害者，一线的医护人员、疾控人员和管理人员，因为职业的特殊性，必须在突发性事件发生后第一时间在现场，是创伤的间接受害者——替代性创伤的传播源。
According to this classification, the situation I find myself in on the night of the Forbidden City, No.23, provides a clear picture of how people at all levels are involved in the storm, and how each of the first victims of coronavirus infections is a direct victim, a frontline medical worker, a disease controller, and a manager.
他们承担的心理压力与救治的重症病患同属一个级别，病患时刻承受着死亡焦虑的煎熬和躯体痛苦，难免有绝望、放弃生命的念头，而医护人员就是在这样环境下，连续高强度地工作着。
The stress they bear is on the same level as that of the critically ill, who are constantly suffering from death and anxiety and physical pain, with the inevitable desire to despair and give up their lives, and it is in this environment that health-care workers continue to work with great intensity.
平时，他们可能有用于自我保护的防御机制，可长时间暴露在过度创伤的环境里，无可回避地承受着身体与心理上的高强度压力。
In normal times, they may have defensive mechanisms for self-protection, can be exposed to excessive trauma for long periods of time and are inevitably subjected to high levels of physical and psychological stress.
他们就是处在暴风眼中心的人。
They're the people at the center of the storm eye.
当他们发出同事流泪大哭的视频、医院走廊人满为患的图片，其实是在说他们的心理状态已经极度脆弱，陷入崩溃的应激状态中，需要休息。
When they send out videos of colleagues crying in tears and pictures of overcrowded hospital corridors, they are saying that their psychological state is extremely fragile, in a state of stress and in need of rest.
各种不同的替代性创伤情绪经由网络传输，迅速向周围人群蔓延，使得恐慌犹如一场龙卷风暴，从少数人的心理应激反应开始，迅速席卷了大部分的神经。
A variety of alternative trauma emotions spread quickly to the surrounding population via the network, making panic like a tornado, starting with the psychological stress response of a few and rapidly engulfing most nerves.
我们每一个人都不同程度被感染，不由自主地出现不同的替代性创伤反应。
Each and every one of us is infected to varying degrees, involuntarily giving rise to different alternative traumatic responses.
■ 社区小道，一辆来自山东载着防疫专用消毒液的车。
▪ Community Alley, a car from Shandong carrying a special disinfectant for epidemic prevention.
热线工作组考虑到安全的需要，将值班室现场接线，改成了呼叫转移的线上方式。
Taking into account the need of safety, the hotline working group changed the on-line wiring of duty room to the on-line mode of call transfer.
第一天上线接听来电的老师反馈回来的数据，让所有伙伴都感到很吃惊，接电数量几乎是非疫情时段的五倍！以前四个小时接电6个，现在要接30-40个电话；未接来电又是已接来电的3倍左右。
All the partners were surprised by the feedback from the teacher who answered the call on the first day, the number of calls was almost five times higher than during a non-epidemic period, from six in the previous four hours to between 30 and 40 calls now, and about three times more than when calls were received.
算起来，总的来电人数是非疫情时期的10-15倍。
The total number of calls is 10-15 times higher than in non-epidemic times.
■ 附近社区组织工作人员认领刚运到的消毒液。
▪ Staff of nearby community-based organizations claim newly delivered disinfectant.
工作组根据来电人员的症状，对所有来电有一个更为具体的分类：1、封城后的焦虑或是抑郁症状发作的占50%，表现主要是心神不宁、坐卧不安、有失控感；总担心病毒会降临到自己和家人身上，出现出汗、心跳加快、口干、莫名发脾气等症状；2、怀疑已经患病、感到恐慌的人占20%，表现为低热病人担心去医院看病被医院隔离而不敢去；听到周围住着有病毒感染的人感到很害怕，心惊肉跳；有躯体疾病合并情绪问题后病情加重；怀疑自己患病多次去医院就诊等；3、心理问题躯体化，占10%，反复量体温、喝水，有无力、疲乏感，没有食欲，胸闷等症状；4、或是强迫症状发作，占10%，反复洗手，手都被洗破了；强迫性思维，不能控制地回想非典时期的严重后果，为此感到痛苦；5、出现睡眠障碍，占5%；6、其他，占5%，比如询问武汉市区的通路情况、如何出门拿药、咨询能否加入做志愿者等现实性问题。
The working group had a more specific classification of all calls based on the caller's symptoms: 1) post-closure anxiety or depressive episode in 50%; restless, restless, panic-stricken person suffering from severe illness; fear of illness and multiple visits to the hospital.
我第一次的值班时段是27日，从下午一点到五点。
My first shift is on the 27th, from 1pm to 5pm.
四个小时下来，第一件事就是感觉到肚子很饿，很快给自己泡了一碗方便面。
Four hours down, the first thing is to feel hungry, quickly made himself a bowl of instant noodles.
我的身体感觉非常疲倦，脑海里似乎还一直回旋着挥之不去的焦虑感、恐慌感，充斥着“我该怎么办”的声音。
My body felt very tired, and my mind seemed to be swirling with anxiety, panic and the "what should I do?" sound.
我很深切地体验到，打进电话的人无论讲述什么现实层面的问题，都与他们的恐慌感、焦虑感、失控感有千丝万缕的联系。
I've learned very well that the people who call on the phone, no matter what the level of reality, are inextricably linked to their feelings of panic, anxiety and loss of control.
我注意到，来电的人群80%属于三级、四级人群，他们可能是全家居住在一起的普通市民，家里有一位年老体弱的人，属于易感人群，足以让全家的情绪都陷入焦虑和恐慌中。
I noticed that 80% of the callers belonged to the 3rd and 4th deciles. They were probably ordinary citizens who lived with their entire family. There was an elderly and infirm person in the family who was a vulnerable group enough to send the whole family into anxiety and panic.
他们可能接触过疑似病例，可能亲眼见过所在小区有人蒙着白布被救护车抬走；他们还可能是低烧的人，社区既没有给试纸，也不能做CT，他们不知道自己是不是也会被传染上，潜伏期的恐慌加深了焦虑。
They may have been in contact with suspected cases and may have witnessed ambulances being taken away from their neighbourhood in white cloth; they may also be low-fever people, with no paper or CT given by the community, who do not know whether they too will be infected, and fear of latency exacerbates anxiety.
他们可能在假期伊始是兴奋的，然而不知不觉越来越焦虑，感觉孩子的毛病也多，家人怎么那么烦，唠叨怎么那么多，宅得要爆炸了。
They may be excited at the start of their vacation, but they're getting increasingly anxious, they're feeling a lot of problems with their children, how come their families are so bored, whining so much, their homes are about to explode.
还有与疫区发生过关联的人员，比如有人在武汉转乘过交通工具、封城前已经出去度假或者回老家，他们经历了一个前所未有的让人难忘的春节。
There have also been associated with epidemic areas, such as people in Wuhan to transfer to other means of transport, before the closure of the city has gone on holiday or back home, they experienced an unprecedented people experienced the Spring Festival.
这些人出门被议论，回家被电话追踪，外出很可能还被限制，住店也遭盘查，他们担心发烧被传染，虽然身体离开了武汉，但是心理从来没有逃出恐慌，还多了一层有家不能回的委屈、隐藏着无处发泄的愤怒……■ 中百超市里排队购买生活必需品的人群。
These people go out to be discussed, home to be tracked by telephone, travel may also be restricted, they are questioned about the fever, although the body left Wuhan, but has never escaped panic, there is an additional layer of grievances can not be returned, hidden there is no outlet for anger...
如果你属于上述人群，这些感受都提示你一切正常。
If you belong to one of these groups, these feelings suggest that everything is OK.
如果你发现自己的状态与“替代性创伤”的表现相似，请放下手机，去找点事情转移自己的注意力，缓解自己的情绪和不适。
If you find yourself in a similar state to a "substitute trauma," put down your phone and find something to distract you from your emotions and discomfort.
你可以：1、只看几个你信任的信息源，不要频繁地在网上搜集各种来源不明的信息，尽量减少对有关灾难信息的关注、接触、获取。
You can: 1. Just look at a few sources of information you trust, and don't frequently collect all kinds of information from unknown sources on the Internet.
2、保持充足的睡眠，可以做一些室内运动，或者刷一刷喜欢的电视剧、电影和综艺；也可以与自己信任的家人或者朋友分享你的感受和想法。
Get enough sleep, do some indoor activities, or brush up on your favorite TV shows, movies, and variety shows. Share your feelings and thoughts with family and friends you trust.
不用为此感到愧疚，照顾好自己的心情和身体比任何事情都重要。
Don't feel guilty about it. Taking care of your mood and body is more important than anything else.
3、最后一点很重要，接受自己处在创伤反应里，接受在这些事件面前产生的负面情绪。
3. Last but not least, accept that you are in a traumatic reaction and accept the negative emotions that arise in the face of these events.
在创伤性事件面前，我们会焦虑、担心、愤怒、悲伤，产生无力感甚至是愧疚感。
In the face of traumatic events, we experience anxiety, worry, anger, sadness, feelings of powerlessness and even guilt.
这是正常的。
That is normal.
人类在灾难面前会本能开启一系列自我保护机制，情感隔离、反向形成、自我补偿，还有抵消、比较。
Humans instinctively open up a series of self-protection mechanisms in the face of disaster. Emotional isolation, reverse formation, self-compensation, offset and comparison.
有人做慈善，用利他主义升华自己的情绪，也有人用幽默的心态面对痛苦，转化情绪。
Some people do charity, with altruistic sublimation of their emotions, others with a humorous mentality to face pain, transformation emotions.
我庆幸我属于你们当中的一员，我们的生活可能受到了一些影响，工作收入也可能面临损失，但没关系，我们照顾好自己就行了。
I'm glad I'm one of you. Our lives may be affected a little bit, and our income from work can be lost.
■ 年前关闭了许久的水果店也开门了，附近人并不多。
▪ Fruit shops that were closed long ago have also opened, with few people nearby.
我特别留意另外一群人，他们很少出现在热线另一头，就是危机一级人群和二级人群，我只是零星地接到了几个电话。
I'm especially aware of a group of people who rarely show up at the other end of the line, in crisis level 1 and level 2, and I only get a few sporadic calls.
有一段时间，我也遗忘了他们，奇怪的是，周围的人不断对我提起他们。
For a while, I forgot about them, too. Strangely enough, people around me kept telling me about them.
提起他们的人要么远在国外，要么远在省外，是一些我远方的亲属、朋友和熟人，他们给我发过来一些微博上的求助信，那上面附着具体的姓名、地址、联系方式，还有水深火热的处境。
They were mentioned by relatives, friends and acquaintances far away from home or abroad who sent me microblogs with their names, addresses, contact details and dire straits.
求助的人们找不到床位，自己发着烧，亲人也已经感染，有的是全家都在发烧或者疑似感染。
Those who seek help are unable to find beds, burn themselves, and their loved ones have become infected, with whole families feverish or suspected of infection.
亲友们询问我这是真的吗？他们很担心、绝望。
My friends and relatives asked me if it was true. They were worried and desperate.
我知道他们跟我被创伤的初期一样，启动了否认的防御机制，希望这些都不是真的。
I knew that they, like me in the early stages of the trauma, had activated the defenses of denial, and hoped that this was not true.
我开始在电话中留意这种声音，希望能接到一线医护人员及家属、发热病患及家属的电话。
I began to listen to the voices on the phone, hoping to receive calls from front-line medical staff and family members, febrile patients and family members.
然而，这样的电话少得可怜。
However, the number of such calls is woefully low.
我确实接过一个。
I did take one.
一个女人焦急地打进电话说，不知道自己接下来该做什么了。
A woman called anxiously and said she didn't know what to do next.
她公公在家发热了几天，越来越重，老公带着公公在某定点医院排队，不知道排不排得上。
Her father-in-law at home for a few days, getting heavier and heavier, her husband with her father-in-law in a certain point of the hospital line, do not know row.
女儿跟爷爷奶奶住，现在女儿还没有发烧，但是自己发烧了。
My daughter lives with her grandparents. Now she is not feverish, but she has a fever.
老公和公公出去了，不知道自己怎么办？我评估了她的情绪，听她讲述具体经过，建议她去社区门诊拿药，先去看自己的发烧，多量女儿的体温。
My husband and father-in-law went out, do not know how to do? I assessed her mood, listened to her detailed story, advised her to go to the community clinic to get medicine, first to see their fever, more daughters temperature.
我们在接受咨询时，除了要有专业的心理援助和危机干预的专业知识和技巧，还要熟知“新冠病毒”相关的医学常识、防治常识，熟知与疫情相关的防治政策、措施、具体归口单位、联络方式，目的是帮助来电者在面对灾难的时候，找回一些确定感，能够尽量多地恢复到适应现实的常态当中。
In addition to professional psychological assistance and crisis intervention expertise and skills, we need to be familiar with the "New Crown Virus" related medical knowledge, prevention and treatment, as well as the relevant prevention and treatment policies, measures, specific units, contact methods, in order to help callers in the face of disasters, find some certainty, and return to as much as possible to the normal situation.
我试图帮这个女人恢复被现实打蒙了的感觉。
I tried to help the woman regain the feeling that she had been blinded by reality.
接完电话后，我的无力感挥之不去。
After I answered the phone call, my powerlessness continued.
社区分级门诊措施是好的，我的回答也没有问题。
The community grading out-patient approach is good, and my answer is no problem.
但现实是门诊无法满足人们的需要。
But the reality is that clinics cannot meet people's needs.
这是一群被最近距离的人忽视的人们，他们发出的呼声惊醒了其他同胞。
This is a group of people who have been neglected by the nearest distance and whose cries awaken their fellow countrymen.
1月31日，在抗击病毒的一线病房，有两名医生被患者家属殴打。
On 31 January, two doctors were beaten by their families in the front-line ward fighting the virus.
殴打医生的人是一个病毒性肺炎死者的家属。
The batterer was a family member of a victim of viral pneumonia.
我想到心理危机干预过程中的一个技术，即危机谈判技术。
I am thinking of one technique in the process of psychological crisis intervention, namely crisis negotiation techniques.
我们无法原谅在这个时候还有人出手伤害医生，但这可能并不是一起简单的刑事伤人案件，病人家属存在明显的创伤应激反应。
We cannot excuse the fact that some people did harm to doctors at this time, but this may not be a simple criminal assault case, and there is a clear traumatic stress response among the patient's family.
在这样的非常时期，无力太久的人会爆发出强大的愤怒，这愤怒是想帮助自己恢复力量感。
In times like these, people who can't afford to stay long will erupt into a powerful rage that is trying to help them regain their sense of strength.
原本，在防控疫情一线，死者家属和医生同属一级创伤人群，内心同样无助，愤怒指错了方向，使得家属不再体谅和感谢医生，而是失去控制的殴打和伤害。
Originally, in the first line of prevention and control of the epidemic, the families of the deceased and the doctors were among the first-degree traumatized people, equally helpless, angry and misdirected, so that families no longer sympathize with and thank the doctor, but out of control of the beatings and injuries.
心理学有一个简单的理解人的原则，情绪没有对错，行为有对错。
Psychology has a simple understanding of human principles, emotional right and wrong, right and wrong behavior.
由于父亲感染肺炎病毒死亡而在医院里打伤医生，应激情绪没有错，错的是伤害医生的行为，最后造成的后果势必也是要自己承担的。
Since the father died of pneumonia and injured the doctor in the hospital, the stress is not wrong, the wrong is to hurt the doctor's behavior, the final consequences will have to bear their own.
被医院无床位的现实击溃，到处游走的人们，通过各种途径寻求帮助是正常的。
The reality of being without a bed in a hospital is shattered, and it is normal for people to seek help in any way they can.
情绪激烈没有对错，如果再不呼喊就是不正常的。
Intense emotion is not right or wrong, if you do not shout is abnormal.
如果你发现某一项防治措施根本不可能帮到你，请想尽方法帮到自己。
If you find that a particular intervention is unlikely to help you at all, find ways to help yourself.
不要轻易放弃自己的生命，即使无人再庇佑你，即使身体已经陷入极其艰难的境地。
Do not easily give up your life, even if no one else protect you, even if the body has been in a very difficult situation.
请活下去，请不要停止求救。
Please live. Please don't stop asking for help.
我们在陪着你。
We're with you.
（出于心理工作的保密与伦理原则的需要，文中人物均为匿名，也请勿对号入座）。
(For reasons of confidentiality and ethical principles of psychological work, the characters are anonymous and should not be seated).
新型肺炎疫情牵动人心，《在人间》现面向全国网友征稿：(一)疫区影像日记如果你身处疫区请你用照片（视频）和文字记录你所听闻和见到的一切照片不少于3张文字不少于300字投稿方式：微信联系人间君（zairenjianliving）（二）抗击疫情真实故事无论你是一线医护人员、志愿者、确诊或疑似患者及家属、已治愈出院人士等等，如果希望讲述疫情相关经历，请微信联系人间君（zairenjianliving）。
If you are in an epidemic area, please use photos (video) and writing to record all photos you hear and see in no less than 300 words. Whether you are a frontline health care worker, volunteer, confirmed or suspected patient and family member, cured patient or discharged person, please contact the ruler of the world by letter.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
在人间丨我在电话这头，试图帮武汉人平复“被现实打蒙的感觉”。
On the human side, I try to help Wuhan people calm down "feeling overwhelmed by reality."
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "在人间living";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; at & quot; among men.
var msg_title = "在人间丨我在电话这头，试图帮武汉人平复“被现实打蒙的感觉”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "请活下去，请不要停止求救。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Please live, please don't stop asking for help.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '在人间 | 一个武汉心理咨询师这样剥离自己的恐慌',。
AT & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '在人间丨疫情中一夜长大的少年',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '在人间丨疫区影像日记（二）：封城之后，我免费接送医护人员上下班',。
I carried medical personnel to and from work at no charge after the city was banned.
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '在人间丨武汉封城第一天',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="在人间living";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; at human & quot;
