一家8口感染之后。
After the family got eight infections.
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
一家医院外的护目镜。
Goggles outside a hospital.
中青报·中青网记者 李强摄作者 | 中青报·中青网记者 杨 杰编辑 | 从玉华意外一个接一个。
Yang Jie, a reporter with Zhongqing Newspaper Zhongqing News & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
离春节还剩三天，魏贝贝的父亲开始发烧，第二天是母亲，初三，轮到了魏贝贝。
Three days before the Spring Festival, Wei Beibei's father began to have a fever, the next day is the mother, the third day of junior high, Wei Beibei.
初四、初五、初六，公婆、弟弟和两个妹妹接连发烧，本该在圆桌前的一家八口，躺在不同医院的病床上搏命。
Junior 4, 5, 6, in-laws, brothers and two sisters feverish, should have been in the round table before the family of eight, lying in different hospital beds fight.
2月13日，魏贝贝的丈夫，家中仅剩的健康成年人隐约出现症状，襁褓中11个月大的女儿亦开始咳嗽。
Wei's husband, the only healthy adult left in the family, began coughing during her 11-month-old baby on Feb. 13.
医院说，孩子得了肺炎！一个人丁兴旺的家庭竟然找不到一个“健康人”来照看孩子。
The hospital said the child had pneumonia! A thriving family could not find a "healthy person" to look after the baby.
她在各种群里，发求助信息。
She's in various groups, sending help messages.
1这个春节假期，没有意外的话，他们正躺在海边晒着西太平洋的太阳。
This Spring Festival, without incident, they are lying on the beach in the western Pacific sun.
魏贝贝38岁，儿女双全，同丈夫一起创业、接工程，住在武汉一处欧式装潢的大房子里，一年全家出游三次。
Weibei 38-year-old son and daughter, together with her husband to start a business, take over the project, living in Wuhan in a large European-style decoration, the family out three times a year.
“谁能想到疾病离我这么近呢？”魏贝贝说。
"Who could have thought that the disease was so close to me?" said Wei Beibei.
1月29日，一家人住进武汉佛祖岭社区服务卫生中心。
On 29 January, the family was admitted to Wuhan Fozulu Community Health Centre.
2月2日，母亲情况急转直下，处于昏迷状态，被转送至金银潭医院，两次病危。
On 2 February, the mother fell into a coma and was transferred to the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, where she was critically ill twice.
父亲在第二天转至武汉同济医院中法新城院区，手机上交，失去联络，小妹跟随转去同一家医院，方便照看。
The next day the father transferred to Wuhan Tongji Hospital in the French new city district, mobile phones turned over, lost contact, sister followed to the same hospital, easy to look after.
紧接着，魏贝贝转到湖北省人民医院，需要吸氧治疗。
Then, Weibei transferred to Hubei Provincial People's Hospital, need oxygen treatment.
大妹则转院到武汉市第三医院光谷院区。
She was transferred to the Guanggu courtyard of Wuhan Third Hospital.
只有弟弟病情较轻，一直留在佛祖岭社区服务卫生中心。
Only the younger brother is relatively light and has remained at the Fozulu Community Health Centre.
公公和婆婆先是居家隔离，后来住进武汉国际会展中心改造的方舱医院。
Grandfather-in-law and her mother-in-law first in-home isolation, and later into Wuhan International Convention and Exhibition Center renovation of the cabin hospital.
那里在年前举办了红火的年货节，如今装进一排排轻症病人。
There was a red-hot New Year's Day a few years ago, and now there are rows of light patients.
8口人散落在武汉的6家医院。
Eight people are scattered in six hospitals in Wuhan.
母亲的情况最令人担忧。
The situation of mothers is most worrying.
她本来身子就不好，高血压、糖尿病，做过甲状腺手术。
She wasn't healthy. She had high blood pressure, diabetes, thyroid surgery.
她躺在病床上，缩成一团，高烧，全身没力气，一躺下就咳，只能坐起来，继续咳。
She lay huddled up in her bed, feverish and weak, coughing as soon as she lay down, and could only sit up and cough.
转院之前，她虚弱地对孩子说：“求求你，让医生给我打一针，让我快点走，我太难受了。
Before she was transferred to the hospital, she said weakly, "Please, let the doctor give me an injection and let me go quickly.
”她的四个孩子同她染了一样的病，老人怕见不到子女最后一面，不情愿地被推上了救护车。
Her four children were as ill as hers, and the old man reluctantly was wheeled into an ambulance for fear that he might not see the last of his children.
一到金银潭医院，母亲开始咳血，第二天咳得更厉害。
As soon as the gold and silver pool hospital, the mother began coughing blood, coughing worse the next day.
重症病房里总有人去世，母亲断断续续地说着，对门的某个人，症状比自己轻，昨天还看见去打水，今天早上就死了。
Someone dies in the intensive care unit, his mother said intermittently, to someone at the door, symptoms lighter than their own, yesterday saw to draw water, this morning died.
魏贝贝在另一家医院的病床上，听着母亲的微弱气息和恐惧，身边是嘈杂的咳嗽声。
In another hospital bed, Wei listened to his mother's faint breath and fear, next to a noisy cough.
她想到武汉的李文亮医生去世，“这么年轻的小伙子，又是医生，再想想我父母，他们有可能扛不住……”她每天给母亲打电话鼓励她，不敢视频，怕妈妈见了自己的样子不好受。
She thought of the death of Dr. Li Wenliang in Wuhan. "So young a boy and a doctor, and think about my parents, they might not be able to carry it..." She called her mother every day to encourage her, afraid of video, for fear that her mother would feel bad about seeing her.
母亲没力气讲话，魏贝贝就一个人对着听筒说，“你一定要好起来，我们这个家庭需要你。
The mother did not have the strength to speak, Wei Beibei a person said to the handset, "you must be well, we need you in this family.
”每一年，母亲都帮孩子们把年货备好，肉圆子、自己腌制的鱼，分成4份送去各家，“过年要有年味嘛”。
Every year the mother helped the children prepare the new year's goods, round meat, their own pickled fish, sent to the family in four parts, "New Year to taste it.
逢年过节子孙围坐，吃完饭母亲从不让孩子们收拾，兄弟姐妹抹抹嘴，坐着聊天。
At the end of the festival, the mother never let the children clean up, brothers and sisters wiped their mouths, sitting and chatting.
母亲病危，父亲失去联络，兄弟姐妹困在各自的病床前，难以动弹。
The mother was critically ill, her father lost contact and her brothers and sisters were confined to their beds, unable to move.
“这一家人怎么遭这么大的难？”魏贝贝想。
"How did the family get into such a mess?" she thought.
湖北的城镇一个个封锁，武汉下雪了，魏贝贝睡觉前没什么瑰丽幻想，她的愿望很朴素，只希望妈妈能活着。
Hubei cities and towns one by one blockades, Wuhan snow, Wei Beibei before going to bed there is no magnificent fantasy, her desire is very simple, just hope that mother can live.
春节前，这家人为过年忙碌，买年货，炸丸子。
Before Spring Festival, the family is busy for the New Year, buy new year goods, fried balls.
年关底下，魏贝贝的爸爸得了一场普通感冒，母亲陪他去医院看病，没有戴口罩。
At the end of the year, Wei Beibei's father had a common cold, his mother accompanied him to the hospital, did not wear a mask.
那天深夜，魏贝贝接到父母电话，“今天医院怎么那么多人”。
Later that night, Wei received a phone call from his parents, "Why are there so many people in the hospital today".
57岁的父母排了6个小时队。
The 57-year-old parents queued for six hours.
很可能在那时，他们成了新冠病毒无差别的宿主。
It is likely that at that time they became the undifferentiated hosts of the new crown virus.
22月13日，魏贝贝的手机又响了。
On February 13, Weibei's cell phone rang again.
丈夫在电话那头说自己“四肢无力，全身酸软”，更糟糕的是，11个月的宝宝也开始咳嗽，到医院一查，宝宝得了肺炎。
My husband said on the phone that he was "limp and limp." To make matters worse, the 11-month-old baby also began to cough and went to the hospital to check his baby had pneumonia.
当时并不清楚是普通肺炎还是新冠肺炎，但一家8口已确诊，宝宝的状况令人担忧。
It wasn't clear whether it was common pneumonia or new crown pneumonia, but eight people in the family were diagnosed and the baby was in a worrying state.
魏贝贝从母亲家里回来当天抱过宝宝，保姆过年回了家，她跟宝宝的接触最多。
Wei Babe came back from her mother's home that day hugged the baby, nanny came home after the New Year, she and the baby contact most.
“我哭得啊，无论是哪一种肺炎，都得治疗。
"I am crying. I must be treated for any kind of pneumonia.
”魏贝贝说，“这个病变化很快，孩子肯定不能等。
"The disease is changing so fast that the child can't wait," said Wei.
”医院开了药，但没有条件收治。
The hospital prescribed the medicine but was unable to admit it.
那天晚上，她四处求人，“我有医院的朋友，但他们自己生病都住不进医院，一床难求。
That night, she begged people everywhere, "I had hospital friends, but they couldn't even get to the hospital because they were sick.
”她又托朋友在网上发帖，直到凌晨2点，才挂掉求助电话。
She asked her friends to post on the Internet until 2 a.m. before hanging up the phone.
怕吵到同病房的病友，她把手机静音，瞪着眼睛流泪到天亮。
Afraid of quarrelling with her sick friend in the same ward, she mute her cell phone and burst into tears until morning.
魏贝贝原本一个星期不发烧了，但那天量体温，4次都是37.5℃。
Weibei had not had a fever for a week, but her temperature was 37.5 ℃ four times that day.
她的肺很疼，嗓子眼是苦味，每咳一下，扯着身体疼，像跑完百米冲刺。
Her lungs ached, her throat was bitter, and every cough she coughed hurt her body, like a hundred-meter sprint.
她困在床头，一步也迈不出去，手机是与外界唯一的联系。
Trapped at the head of her bed, she could not get a step out of her cell phone, the only contact with the outside world.
她盯着屏幕亮起，又暗下，监护仪“嘀嘀”地响，她睡不着。
She stared at the screen, then dimmed, and the monitor "ticked" and she couldn't sleep.
她告诉记者，当时她想起母亲家的桌子是长方形的，上面放一个圆板。
She told reporters that she remembered that her mother's desk was rectangular and that there was a board on it.
每个周末，大家庭的固定节目是去妈妈家吃晚饭，有时外孙要补课来不了，母亲总说，“难得来，还补课，把课停了。
Every weekend, the big family fixed program is to go to my mother's home for dinner, sometimes the grandson has to make up for the class, mother always said, "rare come, but also make up lessons, stopped the class.
”魏贝贝不同意，平日里，学习总比一桌饭重要。
"Wei agreed." On weekdays, learning is more important than a table.
她想起一些快乐的庸常，东湖绿道的风景里，儿子骑车，丈夫拍照，魏贝贝抱着女儿“疯”。
She thought of some happy mediocrity, the East Lake green scenery, her son bike, her husband took photos, Wei Babe hugged her daughter "crazy."
配乐轻松的小视频中，哥哥给妹妹拉大提琴，妹妹手拍巴掌，不停扭屁股。
In the light-hearted video, my brother plays cello to my sister, and my sister claps her hands and washes her buttocks.
住在方舱的公公和婆婆的病情没有恶化，给儿媳妇打来电话安慰，“你的病拖了这么长时间没恢复，就是因为每天操心。
Her father-in-law and mother-in-law, who lived in the cabin, did not get any worse. They telephoned to comfort their daughter-in-law.
”第二天，湖北省妇幼保健院打来电话：宝宝可以入院，但需要一位健康成人陪同。
"The next day, Hubei Maternal and Child Health Hospital phoned:" The baby can be hospitalized but needs a healthy adult to accompany him.
那时，丈夫的检测结果还没出，庞大的家族找不到一个“健康人”。
At that time, the husband's test results are not out, the huge family can not find a "healthy person."
医院不断催促，答应保留床位到傍晚。
The hospital kept pressing and promised to keep the bed until evening.
魏贝贝想尽办法，在家政公司挂了需求，请人照顾宝宝，从一天2000元涨到5000元，但无人应征。
Weibei tried to do everything possible in the home company hang up the demand, ask someone to take care of the baby, from 2000 yuan a day to 5000 yuan, but no one applied.
3同一时间，志愿者汤蒙和崔芝媛分别在不同的群里看到魏贝贝的求助信息。
At the same time, volunteers Tomon and Tri Chi Won each saw Weaabei's help messages in separate groups.
汤蒙24岁，在酒吧学习调酒，摩托车上贴着国旗，胸口也文了一面。
Tomon, 24, learned how to mix wine in a bar, wearing a flag on his motorcycle and writing on his chest.
崔芝媛29岁，老公和孩子在四川老家，她在武汉做酒品销售。
Cui Chi-yuan, 29, whose husband and children are in her hometown in Sichuan, is selling wine in Wuhan.
他们联系了魏贝贝，表示愿意陪护11个月的宝宝。
They contacted Weibei and offered to accompany their 11-month-old baby.
魏贝贝告知实情，孩子可能得了新冠肺炎，家里8人确诊，请他们考虑好。
Wei Beibei tells the truth, the child may have the new crown pneumonia, the family 8 people diagnosed, asks them to consider.
两位志愿者说，“想清楚了”。
"Think clearly," said the volunteers.
崔芝媛听到魏贝贝在电话里哭。
Cui Chi-wen heard Wei Babe crying on the phone.
“别人舍命来帮你，真的很感动。
"I was really touched when people gave their lives to help you.
”魏贝贝说得诚恳，“我要是出院了，也要帮助需要帮助的人。
"If I get out of the hospital, I want to help people in need, too.
”魏贝贝转去一些钱表达感谢，但二人不收。
"Wei transferred some money to thank him, but they didn't accept it.
“收了就变味了。
"It tastes bad when you take it.
”汤蒙说。
"said Tomon.
“我们不懂医术，只能当个游击队员，做些苦力。
"We don't know anything about medicine. We have to be guerrillas and do drudgery.
”汤蒙说，自己别的本事没有，只剩一身力气。
"said Tomon, with no other skill but strength.
他加入了十几个志愿者群，从初一忙到现在，“要不然成天躺在家里，心不安。
He joined a group of more than a dozen volunteers, from the first busy day of junior high school to the present, "otherwise lying at home all day, uneasy.
”但他没敢告诉家人，自己在照顾病人。
But he didn't dare to tell his family he was taking care of the sick.
崔芝媛也不敢说，每次在医院照顾宝宝，她都摁掉家里发来的视频，借口在睡觉或是公司开会。
Trish Chih-won dared not say that every time she took care of her baby in the hospital, she pressed a video from home under the pretext of sleeping or a company meeting.
“我们在医院已经习惯，但外界看来，这里非常危险。
"We're used to it at the hospital, but it looks very dangerous.
”丈夫办理了宝宝的入院手续后，去拿自己的检测结果——一切正常，虚惊一场。
After the husband admitted his baby to hospital, he went to get his test results - all normal, false alarm.
两位志愿者轮流陪这个爸爸照看宝宝。
The two volunteers took turns with the father to look after the baby.
每天早上，崔芝媛在宝宝醒之前把牛奶准备好，再给她穿衣服。
Every morning, Tri Chi Won prepares the milk for her baby before she wakes up.
护士来挂水、做雾化，他们要抱着孩子四五个小时。
The nurses came to hang up the water and atomized the children for four or five hours.
一放下宝宝就哭。
Cry as soon as you put down your baby.
这时，崔芝媛总会想到自己的孩子。
At such times, Tri Chi Won always thought of her children.
如果不是疫情，她本来可以见到在四川的7岁儿子。
Had it not been for the outbreak, she would have seen her seven-year-old son in Sichuan.
过完年后，她几乎全情投入志愿者工作，朋友圈里除了卖酒，就是帮人，很少有时间跟家里联络。
After the end of the year, she devoted herself almost entirely to volunteer work, selling alcohol and helping people in a circle of friends who rarely had time to communicate with their families.
蜂拥而至的求助信息让她脑子一阵发麻，打电话验证信息时，崔芝媛总是担心落空别人的希望。
The rush of help sent a pang through her head, and when she called to verify the information, Cui Chih-wen was always worried about losing someone else's hope.
在深夜的武汉，她送过一件防护服、一个护目镜、一个U盘、一瓶消毒液。
Late at night in Wuhan, she sent a protective clothing, a goggles, a U disk, a bottle of disinfectant.
有时累得不行，但一想到“我这个东西能救他的命”，她不得不继续跑。
Sometimes she was too tired, but the thought that I could save his life forced her to run on.
有一次深夜，她正准备睡下，加急的需求传来：需要从汉口运送一个模具到鄂州，路程一个半小时，备注写着“可以给钱，你开价”。
Late one night, as she was getting ready to sleep, an urgent request came from Hankou to deliver a mold to Huizhou for an hour and a half.
这个模具是方舱医院垃圾桶的配件，外观看着像筷子，没有它，垃圾桶就出不了厂，那么多人在等着。
This mould is the spare parts of the garbage can of the hospital in the square cabin. Without it, the garbage can can't go out of the factory.
崔芝媛没要钱，路上遇到四五个关卡，工作人员听到她的任务，跟上级汇报后，都放行了。
Cui Chih-yuan didn't ask for money. Four or five checkpoints were encountered on the way. When the staff heard about her assignment and reported to her superiors, they released her.
与崔芝媛开着私家车不同，汤蒙去做“苦力”时，都是骑着摩托，时速达到每小时90公里，“平时白天在武汉市区根本不可能。
Unlike Cui Zhi, who drove a private car, Tomon rode a motorbike at speeds of 90 kilometers an hour, which is impossible in Wuhan city during daytime
”他在红十字会的接听组做志愿者，起初有各地捐赠物资的电话，后来又是铺天盖地质疑的电话。
"He volunteered at the Red Cross reception team, making initial phone calls for donations and then a flurry of skeptical calls.
“如果是私人电话，我早挂断拉黑了。
"If it was a personal call, I would have hung up and blackened.
但这是官方热线，我只能解释，不能还嘴。
But this is the official hotline. I can only explain it. I can't return it.
”汤蒙余下的时间帮忙搬运物资，骑着摩托穿梭在长江大桥上。
Tomon spent the rest of his time hauling supplies and riding his motorbike across the Yangtze River Bridge.
从全国运来的货品停在武汉的高速路口。
Goods shipped from all over the country stopped at Wuhan Expressway.
沙堆和路障背后，志愿者把它们从大货车上卸下，装进小轿车、面包车、小货车，再运送到医院和社区。
Behind sand mounds and roadblocks, volunteers unloaded them from vans, loaded them into cars, vans, pick-up trucks and transported them to hospitals and communities.
接下照顾小宝宝的任务后，汤蒙忽然变身“暖男”，他找出家里的布娃娃带了过去。
Taking care of the baby after the task, Tang Meng suddenly turned into a "warm man," he found the family dolls took to the past.
每次哄孩子睡觉，他就在音乐App上搜“睡前儿童喜欢听的歌”，播给宝宝听。
Every time he coaxed the child to sleep, he searched the music App "the song which the child likes to hear before going to bed", broadcast to the baby.
两位志愿者时不时拍些孩子的视频发给魏贝贝，“让她心情好点，毕竟20多天没见孩子。
From time to time, the volunteers took videos of the children and sent them to Weibei. "It makes her feel better. After all, she hasn't seen a child for more than 20 days.
”魏贝贝的丈夫感激志愿者，对汤蒙说以后有任何需要尽管开口。
Wei's husband thanked the volunteers and told Tomon to help him if he needed anything.
汤蒙觉得不自在，说“拐子（武汉话，即大哥），我不想跟你有任何功利的东西掺着。
Tomon felt uncomfortable and said, "Abduction (in Wuhan, that is to say, Big Brother), I don't want to be mixed with anything utilitarian about you.
”那天夜里，两个相差十几岁的男人在婴儿病房里聊到凌晨4点，魏贝贝的丈夫吐露心声，“如果我被感染了，孩子没被感染，只要有人照顾我的孩子，我愿意跪在人家面前；如果我的孩子被感染了，我没被感染，我愿意冲到病人面前，把自己也感染了，跟孩子一起隔离。
That night, two teenage boys were chatting in the baby ward until 4 a. m. and her husband confessed, "If I'm infected and the baby's not infected, I'm willing to kneel if someone takes care of my child, and if my child is infected and I am not infected, I will run to the patient and isolate myself with the baby.
”汤蒙长在单亲家庭，听了既羡慕又感动。
"Tong Mong grew up in a single-parent family and was both envious and moved.
魏贝贝也想开了。
Weibei also wants to open.
以前跟丈夫一起在公司打拼，晚上要应酬，顾不上陪伴孩子，“我这个母亲太失职了”。
In the past with her husband in the company to fight, evening entertainment, not accompanying the children, "my mother is too derelict in her duty."
她决定以后自己带孩子。
She decided to bring up the children herself.
她顾不上企业复工，亏钱、工资、房租，这些压力她统统不管了，只想赶紧回家，拥抱家人。
She ignored the pressures of returning to work, losing money, wages and rent, and wanted to get home and hug her family.
这次春节的全家历险让她明白，大概幸运才是真正拿来安身立命的东西。
The whole family adventure of the Spring Festival let her know that maybe lucky is the real thing to live on.
许多人求而不得的床位，她因为首先选择去社区医院而解决了。
Many people asked for bed, she first chose to go to the community hospital and solved.
那家社区医院始建于1952年，四层楼，配有住院部，能够查血常规和做CT，比一般卫生站设施齐全。
Built in 1952, the four-storey community hospital, equipped with inpatient departments, is equipped for routine blood testing and CT, and is better equipped than general health posts.
在最困难的时刻，有志愿者愿意过来，拉她一把，她觉得一家人运气不错。
In the most difficult moment, there are volunteers willing to come over and pull her, she thought the family lucky.
武汉的风，冬天里带一点点暖。
Wuhan wind, in winter with a little warmth.
好消息一个接一个。
Good news one after another.
2月18日，病最重的母亲最先出院。
On 18 February, the most ill mother was the first to be discharged.
当天，没有音信的父亲正好打来电话，说自己已经停药，很快也能回家。
On the same day, my father, who had no news, called to say that he had stopped taking the medicine and would be able to go home soon.
大妹已出院，小妹、弟弟和公婆也进入出院前的倒计时，就剩魏贝贝核酸检测还是阳性，但症状已消失。
She was discharged from the hospital and her younger sister, brother and mother-in-law also entered the countdown before discharge, leaving Weibei nucleic acid testing positive, but the symptoms have disappeared.
医生说她“每天操心这个，安慰那个，谁的电话也不要打，才能好得快。
The doctor said she "worries about this every day, comforts that one, does not call anybody's telephone, can get better quickly.
”除夕夜，魏贝贝移栽的盆景都活了。
On New Year's Eve the potted landscape was alive.
她说她们家是幸运的，城市里有人失去父母和骨肉。
She said her family was lucky there were people in the city who had lost their parents and flesh and blood.
“我们一家人渡过这个难关，打算开车去旅游，散散心。
"Our family got through this and decided to go on a drive to relax.
”等女儿长大了，她会讲述2020年的春节。
When her daughter grows up, she will tell about the 2020 Spring Festival.
（应受访者要求，文中魏贝贝、汤蒙、崔芝媛为化名）中国青年报·中国青年网出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
At the request of the interviewee, Wei Beibei, Tong Meng and Cui Chi-yuan are listed as aliases. The China Youth Daily has produced a micro-letter for you.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一家8口感染之后。
After the family got eight infections.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "一家8口感染之后";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; with a family of eight.
var msg_desc = "本该在圆桌前的一家八口，躺在不同医院的病床上搏命。
var msg _ desc = & quot; should have fought at least as many people as a family in a different hospital bed before the round table.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
