疫情爆发后，这个行业面临终结。
After the outbreak of the epidemic, the industry faced an end.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻记者 戴越《野生动物保护法》修订在即，随着新冠肺炎疫情发生，“野生动物”作为可能的病毒中间宿主，迫切需要令行禁止繁育饲养食用野生动物的呼吁声，得到了各界的普遍重视。
As the outbreak of the New Crown Pneumonia outbreak, wild animals, as potential intermediate hosts of the virus, urgently need to ban the breeding of wild animals, has attracted widespread attention.
在2月27日国务院联防联控机制召开新闻发布会上，市场监管总局网络交易监督管理司司长梁艾福介绍，按照全国人大常委会最新公布的决定，凡是没有列入畜禽遗传资源目录的陆生野生动物，一律禁止食用。
According to the latest decision of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress (NPC), all terrestrial wildlife not listed in the catalogue of animal genetic resources are prohibited from eating, Liang Aifu, director of the online trading supervision and management division of the General Administration of Market Supervision, said.
同日，国家林草局发布消息，要求凡是从事以食用为目的的野生动物人工繁育，须撤回并注销所核发的许可证件或文书，并停止以食用为目的的出售、运输野生动物等活动。
On the same day, the State Forestry Service issued information requiring the withdrawal and cancellation of licences or documents issued for the artificial breeding of wild animals for food purposes and the cessation of activities such as the sale and transportation of wildlife for food purposes.
澎湃新闻注意到，在疫情爆发之后，更为严格的禁食禁养野生动物规定陆续颁布实施，以食用为目的的陆生野生动物人工繁育行业，面临终结。
In the wake of the outbreak, news surged that a stricter ban on fasting wild animals had been enacted, and that the onshore wildlife breeding industry for food was coming to an end.
“禁食”范围扩大2月24日，十三届全国人大常委会第十六次会议表决通过了《全国人大常委会关于全面禁止非法野生动物交易、革除滥食野生动物陋习、切实保障人民群众生命健康安全的决定》（以下简称：《决定》）。
The Standing Committee of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress (NPC) adopted the Decision of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress (NPC) on a comprehensive ban on illegal wildlife trade, eliminating abuses of wildlife, and ensuring people's lives, health and safety (hereinafter referred to as the Decision).
《决定》指出，自2月24日起，在原有法律禁止食用的野生动物的基础上，全面禁止食用“国家保护的有重要生态、科学、社会价值的陆生野生动物”以及其他陆生野生动物，包括人工繁育、人工饲养的陆生野生动物；全面禁止以食用为目的猎捕、交易、运输在野外环境自然生长繁殖的陆生野生动物。
According to the Decision, from February 24 the consumption of "terrestrial wildlife of ecological, scientific and social value under state protection" and other terrestrial wildlife, including those artificially bred and farmed, on the basis of the wildlife previously prohibited by law, is prohibited.
澎湃新闻注意到，此前的相关政策规定的禁食范围是国家重点保护野生动物，根据当前实施的《野生动物保护法》（2018修正）规定，禁止猎捕、杀害国家重点保护野生动物；禁止为食用非法购买国家重点保护的野生动物及其制品。
According to the 2018 amendment to the current Wildlife Protection Law, hunting and killing of wildlife under special state protection is prohibited, and the illegal purchase of wildlife and their products for consumption under special state protection is prohibited.
在2月27日的国务院联防联控机制召开新闻发布会上，市场监管总局网络交易监督管理司司长梁艾福提到了这一问题。
Liang Aifu, director of the online trading supervision and management division at the General Administration of Market Supervision, raised the issue at a press conference on February 27.
梁艾福指出，按照野生动物保护的相关法律，此前侧重点放在珍稀濒危野生动物的保护上。
Liang pointed out that under the wildlife protection law, the previous focus on the protection of rare and endangered wildlife.
而如今，按照全国人大常委会最新公布的决定，凡是没有列入畜禽遗传资源目录的陆生野生动物，一律禁止食用。
Now, according to the latest decision of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress, all terrestrial wildlife not listed in the catalogue of animal genetic resources are prohibited from eating.
什么是畜禽遗传资源目录？原农业部于2014年2月发布2061号通告称，根据《畜牧法》第十二条的规定，结合第二次全国畜禽遗传资源调查结果，对《国家级畜禽遗传资源保护名录》（中华人民共和国农业部公告第662号）进行了修订，确定八眉猪等159个畜禽品种为国家级畜禽遗传资源保护品种。
In February 2014, the former Ministry of Agriculture issued Circular No. 2061 stating that the State-level List of Animal Genetic Resources Protection (Ministry of Agriculture Notice No. 662) had been amended in the light of the results of the second national survey of animal genetic resources, in accordance with article 12 of the Livestock and Animal Genetic Resources Act.
这159个品种分为七大类，分别为猪、鸡、鸭、鹅、牛马驼、羊及其他品种，其中其他品种包括敖鲁古雅驯鹿、吉林梅花鹿、中蜂、东北黑蜂、新疆黑蜂、福建黄兔和四川白兔。
The 159 species are divided into seven categories: pigs, chickens, ducks, geese, alpacas, sheep and other species, among which are the orogouya reindeer, the jilin plum deer, the midriff, the northeast black bee, the Xinjiang black bee, the Fujian yellow rabbit and the Sichuan white rabbit.
梁艾福进一步解释称，比如果子狸这类此前不在国家重点保护名录里的野生动物，按照当前最新决定，也将因其不在畜禽遗传资源目录之列而一律被禁止食用，“当然目录里将来都有什么，还需要下一步不断地健全和完善”。
Liang further explained that wild animals such as civet beavers, which had previously been excluded from the list, would, according to recent decisions, also be banned from eating because they were not listed as animal genetic resources.
另外，国家林草局也表示将加快调整《国家重点保护野生动物名录》《国家保护的有重要生态、科学、社会价值的陆生野生动物名录》和地方重点保护野生动物名录，积极扩展保护管理范围。
The State Forestry and Forestry Administration has also indicated that it will accelerate the readjustment of the List of Ecologically, Scientifically and Socially Important Wildlife under State Protection and the List of Wildlife under Special Local Protection to actively expand the scope of protection and management.
推进《陆生野生动物保护实施条例》修订，抓紧制定野生动物人工繁育、专用标识等配套管理办法和技术标准。
We will accelerate the revision of the Implementation Regulations on the Protection of Land-based Wild Animals and formulate relevant administrative measures and technical standards for the artificial breeding of wild animals and special marks.
水生野生动物方面，农业农村部渔业渔政管理局副局长韩旭表示，对于养殖鳄鱼、甲鱼等两栖爬行动物，目前农业农村部正在和国家林草局协商，本着革除滥食野生动物陋习，保障人民健康安全，保障水产品供给安全的原则，调整完善相关的目录和配套规定，进一步明确禁食的范围。
With regard to aquatic wildlife, Han Xu, deputy director of the Fisheries and Fisheries Administration of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, said that the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs was consulting with the State Forestry and Forestry Administration on the principles of eliminating wild animal abuse, ensuring people's health and safety and ensuring the safety of aquatic products.
在新的目录出台之前，对于已经列入《国家重点保护经济水生动植物资源目录》或《人工繁育国家重点保护水生野生动物名录》的物种，将通过文件的形式尽快予以明确。
Pending the release of the new catalogue, species already on the List of Aquatic Resources under Special State Protection or the List of Aquatic Wildlife under Special State Protection will be identified as soon as possible in the form of a document.
关于鱼类野生动物，澎湃新闻了解到，在2月24日的《决定》出台后，全国人大常委会法工委经济法室副主任杨合庆就曾做出过解释，杨合庆称，捕捞鱼类等天然渔业资源是一种重要的农业生产方式，也是国际通行做法，渔业法等已对此作了规范，根据各方面的一致意见，按照《决定》的有关规定，鱼类等水生野生动物不列入禁食范围。
Yang said fishing for fish and other natural fishery resources is an important agricultural production method and a common international practice, which has been regulated by the Fishery Law. According to the agreement of all parties, aquatic wildlife such as fish are not included in the fast according to the relevant provisions of the Decision.
已检查人工繁育场所15.3万处野生动物的相关政策出台后，有关部门对于涉野生动物的不当行为已经开始重拳打击。
Authorities have cracked down on wildlife-related misconduct after policies were put in place to inspect 153,000 wild animals in artificial breeding sites.
据新华视点2月27日消息，国家林草局要求全面清理规范野生动物人工繁育从业机构，彻底取缔食用野生动物市场和交易。
The State Forestry and Forestry Administration has called for a sweeping clean-up of wildlife breeding agencies and a complete ban on the food wildlife market and trade, Xinhua reported.
凡是从事以食用为目的野生动物人工繁育，须撤回并注销所核发的许可证件或文书，并停止以食用为目的的出售、运输野生动物等活动。
Any person engaged in the artificial breeding of wild animals for food shall withdraw and cancel the license or documents issued and shall stop selling or transporting wild animals for food.
全面加强非食用性利用野生动物的审批和监管，防止偷食、滥用、虐待等违法和不当利用方式，坚决杜绝假冒人工繁育名义非法从野外猎捕野生动物的行为。
We will comprehensively strengthen the approval and supervision of non-edible wild animals, prevent illegal and improper use of such illegal and improper methods as stealing, abuse and maltreatment, and resolutely put an end to the illegal hunting of wild animals in the name of artificial breeding.
澎湃新闻注意到，此前部分野生动物是允许人工驯养繁育的。
The news surged that some wild animals had previously been allowed to domesticate and breed.
原林业部早在1991年就曾出台《国家重点保护野生动物驯养繁殖许可证管理办法》（2011年1月25日原国家林业局令第26号修改，2015年4月30日原国家林业局令第37号修改）。
As early as 1991, the former Ministry of Forestry issued the Measures for the Administration of Licenses for the Training and Reproduction of Wild Animals under Special State Protection (Amendment No. 26 of the former State Forestry Administration Decree of 25 January 2011 and Amendment No. 37 of the former State Forestry Administration Decree of 30 April 2015).
该《办法》所称的野生动物特指国家重点保护的陆生野生动物，所称驯养繁殖，是指在人为控制条件下，为保护、研究、科学实验、展览及其他经济目的而进行的野生动物驯养繁殖活动。
The term "wild animals" as mentioned in the Measures refers specifically to terrestrial wildlife under special state protection, and refers to domestication and propagation of wildlife for the purpose of protection, research, scientific experiments, exhibitions and other economic purposes under artificially controlled conditions.
此外，原林业局曾于2013年发布《关于发布商业性经营利用驯养繁殖技术成熟的梅花鹿等54种陆生野生动物名单的通知》称，经组织专家论证审核，梅花鹿等54种陆生野生动物的商业性经营利用驯养繁殖技术成熟，按照我国有关法律法规规定，可以从事经营利用性驯养繁殖和经营。
In addition, in 2013, the former Forestry Administration issued a notice on the publication of a list of 54 land-based wild animals, including deer that are ripe for commercial management using domesticated breeding techniques.
通知写明，“其中驯养繁殖产品依法经动物检疫合格作为食品的，其卫生检验、监督，应依照国家食品卫生法律法规的规定办理。
The circular states that "health inspection and supervision of domesticated and propagated products that have passed animal quarantine inspection as food shall be handled in accordance with the provisions of the state laws and regulations on food hygiene.
”原林业局也曾在2017年发布第13号公告，发布了《人工繁育国家重点保护陆生野生动物名录（第一批）》，其中包括9种国家重点保护野生动物。
The former Forestry Administration also issued Notice No. 13 in 2017 announcing the "List of Land Wildlife under Special State Protection for Artificial Breeding (First batch)," which includes nine species of wildlife under special state protection.
此次新的禁食禁养野生动物政策发布实施后，国家林草局野生动植物保护司副司长王维胜在2月27日介绍，林草局已要求全国各地对2800多家竹鼠、獾养殖机构全面排查从业人员健康状况和养殖动物的异常死亡或疫病等情况。
Wang Weisheng, deputy director of the Wildlife Conservation Department of the State Forestry and Forestry Administration, told reporters on February 27 that the bureau had asked more than 2,800 bamboo mice and badger farms nationwide to check the health of workers and unusual animal deaths and epidemics.
王维胜说，明确要求各地对所有的野生动物人工繁育场所实施封控隔离，停止一切野生动物上市交易和运输等活动，严厉打击违法猎捕、经营利用野生动物的行为。
Wang said there is a clear demand that all places in China should strictly control and isolate all wildlife breeding sites, stop all activities such as listing, trading and transporting wild animals, and crack down on illegal hunting, hunting and using wildlife.
加强野生动物疫源疫病的监测，要求对野生动物非正常死亡、患病等情况实行日报告制度，对出现的异常情况及时按要求进行妥善处理。
To strengthen the monitoring of wild animal epidemic diseases, it is necessary to adopt a daily reporting system for unnatural deaths and diseases of wild animals, and to deal with abnormal conditions as required in a timely manner.
据介绍，截至2月26日，全国各地林草系统，清理整治市场餐馆饭店等经营场所35万多处，检查人工繁育场所15.3多处，办理野生动物违法案件690起，收缴非法工具2919件，收缴野生动物39000多只，全国收缴野生动物制品1800多公斤。
As of February 26, the state had sorted out more than 350,000 forest and grass operations, checked more than 15.3 artificial breeding sites, handled 690 cases of wildlife violation, confiscated 2,919 illegal tools, collected over 39,000 wild animals and collected over 1,800 kg of wildlife products nationwide.
本期编辑 邢潭推荐阅读。
This issue editor Xingtan recommended reading.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情爆发后，这个行业面临终结。
After the outbreak of the epidemic, the industry faced an end.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "疫情爆发后，这个行业面临终结";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; with the outbreak.
var msg_desc = "已检查人工繁育场所15.3万处";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & quot; & quot; 153,000 & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '一名空乘确诊，5名复工人员被隔离',。
A flight attendant was diagnosed and five reinstated workers were quarantined with service.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '3省5个监狱共确诊555例，司法部谈疫情细节漏洞',。
Ritle: & apos; 555 cases were diagnosed in five prisons in three provinces. & nbsp; & # 160; & # 45; & Justice & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '582分钟，交卷！',。
Running: & apos; 582 minutes, handing in its paper!
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
