距天津确诊最多的区仅一河之隔，这里却保住了0。
The district with the highest number of confirmed cases in Tianjin is just one river away from Tianjin, where it remains at 0.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
津云新闻记者 霍艳华 摄影 蒲永河截至目前，在天津的新冠肺炎地图上，只有两个空白的地方，一个是蓟州区一个是静海区，其中，蓟州区距离天津确诊病例最多的宝坻区仅一步之遥。
Jin Yun reporter Huo Yanhua photography Po Yong He so far, in Tianjin's new crown pneumonia map, there are only two blank spots, one is Jixuzhou is a quiet sea area, of which Jijizhou District is only one step away from Tianjin's most diagnosed cases of Baojiao District.
到目前尚能保持“零”纪录不被打破，他们是如何做到的？日前，津云新闻记者来到了蓟州区最南部、距离宝坻最近的蓟州区侯家营镇，实地了解这里的疫情防控工作。
Jin Yun reporters arrived in Jiayin, the southernmost Jiayingtown in Jiodi, the closest Jiayingtown in Jiaxiao district, Jiaxiyin district, east of Jiaxiao district, east of Jiaxiyin district, east of Jiaxiyin district, on the spot to see how the epidemic is being prevented.
危险：一桥两端 疫情如此之近侯家营镇地处蓟州最南端，是蓟州的“南大门”。
Danger: One bridge at both ends of the epidemic so close to Hou Jia Ying town is located in Jieyuan southernmost Jieyuan, is the "south gate" of Jieyu.
疫情开始之初，侯家营镇也像其他街镇一样，按照全市的部署和区里的安排，将关注重点放在了湖北返津人员上。
At the beginning of the epidemic, Hou Jia Ying town, like other street towns, in accordance with the city's deployment and arrangements in the district, the focus on Hubei returned to Tianjin personnel.
当时，该镇除了在湖北上大学的学生，其它相关人员较少。
At the time, the town in addition to Hubei University students, other relevant personnel are less.
“我们镇在湖北上大学的学生人数很少，且1月初放假就都回来了，我们需要重点监控的人群相对有限。
"The number of students in our town who went to university in Hubei Province was very small and came back on holiday in early January.
”侯家营镇党委副书记、镇长钱立军说。
Hou Jia Yingzhen party committee deputy secretary, mayor Qian Lijun said.
随着疫情的发展，特别是1月23日武汉封城的消息传来，钱立军感觉事态越发严重了。
With the spread of the epidemic, especially the news of the 23 January closure of Wuhan, Qian Lijun felt the situation was getting worse.
果不其然，大年三十16:00，蓟州区便召开视频会议对防疫提出了新的要求，各村党政负责人必须在岗在位，封村管控开始了。
Sure enough, around 16: 00, Jixu District on the convening of a videoconference on the epidemic prevention of the new requirements, the village party and government leaders must be in office, the village control began.
“下午开完会，晚上6点多我们就开始布置任务。
The meeting is over in the afternoon, and we will be setting up the assignment after 6: 00 p.m.
啥年夜饭、春晚，全都不想了，道路管控，大喇叭广播禁止初一串门、拜年了。
What Chinese New Year dinner, Spring Festival Gala, all do not want, road control, loudspeaker broadcast ban on the first door, New Year call.
”钱立军说。
"said Qian Lijun.
按照要求各村仅留一条进出道路，但是大年三十晚上，找不到封控其他道路的东西，很多村子就先把车子横路上，防止车辆人员出入，经过连夜封堵，大年初一早上各村进出道路就剩一条了，还有专人在岗把守。
According to the requirements of the villages to leave only one access road, but around the New Year's Eve, can not find anything to block other roads, many villages on the road to prevent vehicles from entering or leaving, after night blocking, the villages on the morning of the New Year left a road, there are special personnel guarding.
“大年初一一早，各村就严防死守拜年、串亲戚的，初二想回娘家的，我们也禁止姑娘姑爷们回来，让他们打电话拜年、微信拜年。
"On the first day of the New Year, the villages strictly guarded the New Year, visiting relatives, the second day want to return home, we also prohibit girls and aunts back, let them call New Year, a message to pay a New Year call.
”钱立军说。
"said Qian Lijun.
封控工作有条不紊，虽然紧张、压力也很大，但是真正让钱立军感到“炸锅”了的，还是从1月30日大年初六宝坻区陆续出现聚集性确诊病例开始。
Sealing work in an orderly manner, although the tension, pressure is also very big, but let money really feel "fry pot", or January 30 from January 30 in Baojiu District began to appear in the cluster of confirmed cases.
侯家营镇与宝坻区一桥之隔钱立军说，他们镇距离宝坻区仅有一条泃河相隔，最近的村庄间仅隔一座小桥，桥两端不到50米的距离，走路过去几分钟，即便是到达宝坻城区也仅需20分钟车程，而去蓟州城区则需要40分钟，因此，侯家营镇居民平时购物都往宝坻跑。
The town is separated from Baoquan district by a small river, less than 50 meters from the nearest village, only 20 minutes by car to Baodi City and 40 minutes to Jieyao City, so residents of Hou Jiayin have their usual shopping trip to Baoji district.
春节前夕，该镇的村民们更是频繁往宝坻采购年货，而且镇里不少人都在宝坻有房子，亲戚好友在宝坻的更是不计其数。
On the eve of the Spring Festival, villagers frequent Baodi to reissue their yearly purchases, and dozens of people in the town have their homes in Baodi.
不仅如此，侯家营镇是三岔口乡和侯家营乡合并的，而侯家营镇很多人看病是去宝坻区的三岔口卫生院看病，那里就有新冠肺炎确诊病例去过。
Not only that, Hou Jia Ying Township is a combination of Sanjiakou Township and Hou Jia Ying Township, while many people in Hou Jia Ying Township see the Sanjiaotou Health Center in Baojiayin District, where there have been confirmed cases of Newcastle Pneumonia.
后来，泃河对面的宝坻区朝霞街道小吴庄村里也发现了确诊病例。
Later, the ChaoXia street ChaoXia street across the Chaozhan district across the Zhouhe also found a confirmed case.
“当时真的措手不及，没想到。
"I was really taken aback.
”回想当天的情景，钱立军历历在目。
Looking back on the day, Qian Lijun was there.
排查：女大学生瞒报武汉接触史怎么办，先排查，摸清底数。
Checks: female college students to cover up Wuhan contact history how to do, first check, find out the number.
侯家营镇43个村，村子大大小小，人数不一，从二三百人到二三千人，排查难度不小。
Hou Jia Ying town 43 villages, villages large and small, the number of different, from two to three hundred to two thousand people, troubleshooting.
每个村的镇包村干部、村干部、派出所包片民警、村医，四人联保，逐家逐户排查，生怕排查漏了造成严重后果。
Each village village cadre, village cadre, police station package, village doctor, four UNPROFOR, house by house, for fear of leakage of serious consequences.
老宋庄村就是一个有着2600余人的大村，该村支部书记兼村主任周志强给记者拿出了一本厚厚的统计表，他说，从统计湖北武汉返津人员、去过宝坻百货大楼、去过确诊病例轨迹地方的、去过宝坻的人员……他们挨家挨户统计了不下四五遍，638户挨个打一遍，很多时候都要打到后半夜。
Zhou Zhiqiang, a village with more than 2,600 people, gave reporters a thick statistical sheet, saying people who had visited Wuhan, Hubei province, Baodi department store, visiting Baodi District, visiting Baodi District, had been to Baodi District and visited Baodi.
“凌晨三四点打电话，我们心里也忐忑，会不会让人嫌烦啊，但是抢时间，没办法。
"Three or four in the morning telephone, our hearts perturbed, will not let people hate ah, but scramble time, there is no way.
”周志强说。
"said Zhou.
辛苦还在其次，村干部最怕的就是瞒报。
Hard work is still in the second place, village cadres most fear is to conceal.
大年三十，该镇有名女孩在家洗澡感冒发烧了，就去了卫生院，医生询问是否去过湖北时，她说自己在天津上大学，后来镇里把这个情况上报后。
During the New Year's Eve, a famous girl in the town took a bath with a cold and had a fever. When the doctor asked if she had ever been to Hubei, she said she went to the university in Tianjin.
初一凌晨3点钟，经过公安排查，发现她从武汉回来的。
At 3 a.m. on the first day of junior high school, after public security screening, found that she returned from Wuhan.
这一下子，村镇干部们就紧张起来了，凌晨4点，村干部就赶到这户，并安排了隔离观察，120救护车随后将女孩接到了指定医院进行检查。
At the same time, village officials arrived at the house at 4 a.m. and arranged for a seclusion. 120 ambulances then took the girl to a designated hospital for examination.
“好在最后检查结果没有问题，但这说明抱有侥幸心理的人还是有的。
"Fortunately, there were no problems with the final results, but this shows that people just take what they need.
”周志强说。
"said Zhou.
为了解决这一问题，村干部们只能不厌其烦地跟村民们反复核实，晓之以理动之以情，从法律层面告诉他们瞒报犯法，从感情上让他们认识到瞒报害人害己。
In order to solve this problem, the village cadres can only go to the villagers repeatedly verification, repeated emotions, tell them from the legal level to conceal the crime, emotionally let them realize that the harm done to others.
周志强说：“我跟村民们讲，你不知道你有没有事，这病毒看不见摸不着，你告诉我们实话，我们可以对你保护，隐瞒不报，后果你承担不了。
"I told the villagers that you didn't know if you were okay, that the virus was invisible, that you told us the truth, that we could protect you from the consequences," Zhou said.
”同时，村民之间也相互监督，有时乡里乡亲直接说伤和气，就微信、电话甚至8890反馈到村干部那，后来大数据技术也运用进来，村民们也知道很难瞒报，基本上也不敢了。
At the same time, villagers monitored each other, and sometimes villagers told each other directly that they were hurt and angry. They reported back to village officials on their letters, telephone calls and 8890.
经过统计，侯家营镇3.9万人，43个村子，仅有2个村子没有人员前往过宝坻百货大楼，43个村全部都有人员到过宝坻区，从1月19日到1月25日，全镇去过宝坻百货大楼的就达到978人，去过宝坻其他确诊病例轨迹地区的1228人，这些人都需要居家隔离观察。
Only 2 of the 39,000 Hou Jia Ying town and 43 villages have been visited by anyone in Baodi district, 43 villages have been visited by people in Baoquan district. From January 19 to January 25, 978 people in Baodi district have visited Baodi district, and 1,228 people in Baodi district have visited Baodi District.
而去过宝坻区的人员更多，有的一个村2000多人，都需要居家医学观察。
More people have been to the Po Zen area, some more than 2,000 people in a village, all need home medical observation.
封控：面临“亲情关”考验这么多人居家隔离，如何确保不出门？像老宋庄村光去过宝坻百货大楼的就有80多人，需要居家观察的1289人，光靠几个村干部盯着是不够的，于是他们就想了“封门”的办法，但是给大门上贴封条，大过年的不好看，村干部们就用福字去代替。
How to make sure you don't go out when you face a test of family ties More than 80 people have visited Baodi oddly in the old Song Dynasty (60-odd people) and 1,289 need to be looked at at home.
但是即便是这样，村民们也有不乐意的，周志强的叔伯兄弟是从宝坻回来的人员，周志强就把弟弟一家的大门上贴了福字，周志强的亲叔叔一看不乐意了，电话里梗脖子对他吼道：“你怎么把我门封上了，干啥！”周志强只能耐心地听叔叔发火，但是叔叔发泄过后，这门还是要堵的，周志强只能告诉叔叔，有什么需要打电话。
Zhou Zhiqiang's uncle and auntie came back from Baodi. Zhou Zhiqiang affixed a blessing to the door of his younger brother's family. Zhou Zhiqiang's uncles and aunts shouted at him: "Why did you seal my door and do something!
为了封控这事，村干部没少受委屈，就连一些志愿者都跟着受气。
In order to suppress this matter, the village cadres are not less aggrieved, even some volunteers have followed suit.
宋智勇在北京做了18年的花店生意，这次看到村里进行疫情防控，他就主动当起了志愿者。
Song Zhiyong did flower shop business in Beijing for 18 years, this time saw the village for disease prevention and control, he volunteered.
他把自家的桌椅、电脑、暖气、测温仪都提供到检查点，日夜坚守。
He provided his own desks, chairs, computers, heating, thermometers to check points, day and night adhere to.
有一次，一位不需要居家隔离的小伙子，进出村子嫌登记麻烦，乱发脾气，骂了宋智勇。
Once, a young man who did not need to be separated from his family went in and out of the village to register trouble, throw a tantrum and scold Song Zhiyong.
周志强找到小伙子跟他说：“人家志愿者为了啥？不是为了你好吗？你可以不为社会做贡献，但是你得为家里人负责。
Zhou Zhiqiang went to the young man and said to him: "Why are the volunteers? Not for your own good? You can not contribute to society, but you have to be responsible for your family.
”最后小伙子也意识到自己错了，回来跟志愿者道歉。
"Finally the young man realized he was wrong and returned to apologize to the volunteer.
志愿者宋智勇不让出去一天两天还行，但是这前前后后一个月了，在家的人想出去，在外面的人想回家。
Volunteers Song Zhiyong is not allowed to go out for a day or two, but this time around for a month, people at home want to go out, people outside want to go home.
但是为了村里的安全，村干部首先要以身作则，不能开这个口子。
But in order to ensure the safety of the village, the village cadres should lead by example first.
中周庄村村支部书记兼村主任冯小波的爱人杨小艳是侯家营镇120急救中心的护士，自从疫情开始以来，杨小艳就没回过家，冯小波不让她回来，即便杨小艳单位开证明没问题，冯小波也不同意，他说：“我必须以身作则，要是人家村民说，为啥你媳妇能回来？这就不好了。
Yang Xiaoyan, the wife of village secretary and village director Feng Xiaoyan, a nurse at Hou Jia Ying's 120 Emergency Response Center, has not returned home since the outbreak began. Feng Xiaobo refused to let her back.
”一个月都没见到孩子，杨小艳非常想念两个宝贝，然而，冯小波自己也忙得分不开身照顾孩子。
"I haven't seen her for a month. Yang missed two babies very much, but Feng Xiaobo herself was too busy to take care of the children.
前几天学校开学上网课，家里老人不会弄，平时不让孩子玩手机电脑的冯小波，也顾不了那么多，就把手机电脑扔给女儿和儿子，让他们自己弄了，但是小孩子自控能力差，没人监督就玩上了，气得杨小艳直骂冯小波，只能眼睁睁地等着封控解除，回家再自己照顾孩子了。
A few days ago, the school start online classes, home elderly people will not do, usually not let the children play with the mobile phone computer Feng Xiaobo, can not care about so much, but the child's self-control ability, no supervision played, Yang Yanyian yelled at Feng Xiaobo, can only wait for the closure lifted, to take care of their own children.
服务：赔钱也觉得值得不让居家隔离的村民出门，很多事就得村干部代办，从柴米油盐，到卫生纸、纸尿裤、药、电费、燃气费，村干部们都得一一代劳。
Service: loss of money also feel that it is worthwhile to keep isolated villagers out of their homes, many things have to be done by village cadres, from firewood and salt to toilet paper, diapers, medicines, electricity and gas.
周志强说，村里有村民需要做透析，村干部也得跟着去，更别说发烧、嗓子疼的，只要有，就得村干部一起去，排除新冠肺炎可能的也得由村干部接回去。
'There are villagers in need of dialysis and village cadres have to go along with them, not to mention those with fever and sore throats, 'he said.
一个月的时间里，这样的情况几十次，一趟70里地，村干部们可真跑了不少路。
In a month, such a situation dozens of times, a 70-mile trip, village cadres can really run a lot of roads.
中周庄村的支委刘庆国和老主任许丛朋主动承担起给村民们买菜的任务，提前一天他们在微信上问好了各家的需求，转天许丛朋就开着自家的厢货去给村民买菜，为了给村民们买到最便宜的水果蔬菜，他们凌晨两三点出发去蓟州区官庄镇的蔬菜批发市场，一趟下来要拉2000多块钱的东西，外面辣椒7元/斤，他们给村民买回来的价格3.5元/斤，赶上瓜菜磕碰，损失就由他们承担，几趟下来油钱、损耗，赔了五六百元。
In order to get the cheapest fruits and vegetables for the villagers, they set off at the wholesale market of Guanzhuang Town in Jianzhou District at 2: 00 a.m. and asked for 2,000 yuan worth of vegetables and 7 yuan apiece outside.
但是中周庄村的村干部们说，将心比心，再累再苦，只要咱们村安全，都值得。
But the village cadres in Zhongzhou Village said that the heart of the heart, no matter how tired, as long as our village is safe, it is worthwhile.
成果：“零”纪录未打破到现在新冠肺炎患者数字能够保持在“零”，镇长钱立军感叹说“运气不错”，因为全镇978人去过宝坻百货大楼而没有感染。
Result: The "zero" record did not break the current zero number of cases of pneumonia, and Mayor Qian Lijun lamented "good luck" as 978 people in the town had visited Baodi odour department store without being infected.
但是，回想起来，钱立军也坦言有些“后怕”，如果不是大年三十果断封村，如果不是大年初一到大年初五严禁拜年，后果可能不堪设想。
However, in retrospect, Qian Lijun also confessed that some "fear after the event," if not the New Year's 30 resolute closure, if not the New Year's Day to the beginning of the New Year five strictly prohibit New Year, the consequences may be unthinkable.
钱立军说，这首先是村干部们的防控意识到位。
Qian Lijun said that this is above all village cadres in place awareness of prevention and control.
一方面得益于2018年以来村级组织换届选举选出的村干部政治素质高、能力强、执行力强。
On the one hand, benefit from 2018 village-level organization general election elected village cadres of high political quality, strong ability, strong implementation.
另一方面，侯家营镇有防控2018年非洲猪瘟的经验。
On the other hand, Hou Jia Ying town has 2018 African pig disease experience.
有了上一次的经验，这次涉及到人，村干部们更知道严重性了，也知道如何防控。
With the last experience, this time involving people, village cadres know more about the severity of the problem, and how to control it.
像中周庄村的冯小波、刘凤伟都是复员军人，说话办事自带部队雷厉风行的作风。
Like the village of Zhouzhuang Feng Xiaobo, Liu Fengwei are demobilized soldiers, speak to the army with the style of rapid action.
冯小波说，他作为汽车兵参加过汶川地震的抢险救援和灾后重建工作，2003年抗击非典的时候，他也在部队，在部队里他们学习过有关疫情防控的知识，知道抗击病毒也是一场战争，要服从命令听从指挥。
Feng Xiaobo said he took part in the rescue and rehabilitation of Wenchuan earthquake as a car soldier, he was in the army when he fought SARS in 2003, where they learned that fighting the virus is also a war and obeying orders.
“做军人，死也死在战场上！防控疫情也是一样！”冯小波说。
"To be a soldier, to die on the battlefield! The same is true for the prevention and control of epidemics!" Feng Xiaobo said.
第二，钱立军认为就是宣传到位，对于农村来说，大喇叭广播非常有效。
Second, Qian Lijun believes that is propaganda in place, for the countryside, loudspeaker broadcasting is very effective.
2018年蓟州区完成了村村通广播，区、镇、村三级都可以控制播放系统，疫情防控期间，每天从早6点多到晚10点，区里时段播完镇里时段播，村里再不时继续宣传，另外，还增加了流动播放和手持播放。
In 2018, rural radio coverage was completed in the Jixu district, where district, township and village broadcasting systems are controlled. During the period of epidemic prevention and control, from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. every day, town time is broadcast and the village continues to publicize it from time to time. Mobile and hand-held broadcasts have also been added.
钱立军笑着说：“我们的大喇叭广播宣传密集到什么程度？到后期，都有老百姓到8890‘投诉’的，说大喇叭影响他们休息了。
Qian Lijun smiled and said: "How intensive are our loudspeaker broadcasts? By the latter stage, people are coming to 8890 to 'complain' that the loudspeaker is affecting their rest.
但是不这样宣传不行，有些老年人不看手机、不上网，很多信息他们不了解，大喇叭广播对老年人还是很管用的。
But do not do this publicity, some old people do not look at mobile phones, do not surf the Internet, a lot of information they do not understand, loudspeaker broadcasting is still very useful for the elderly.
”虽然被百姓投诉，但是钱立军说，他们广播的宗旨只有一个，那就是让老百姓入脑入心。
"Despite the complaints, Qian said the sole purpose of their broadcasts was to put people in their minds.
当然，在村里用大喇叭广播还要有些技巧，拿稿子念村民们可能听不进去，说点直白的话，让村民们能听懂。
Of course, in the village with the loudspeaker broadcast some skills, the villagers may not listen to the manuscript, say something straightforward so that the villagers can understand.
在村民的观念中，就怕自己有什么短处被别人指指点点，对于疫情防控，宣传也是以这个“点”为切入做老百姓的工作，告诉村民做好居家隔离，别连累了别人。
In the concept of villagers, afraid of their own shortcomings are pointed out by others, for the prevention and control of the epidemic, publicity is also the "point" into the work of ordinary people, tell villagers to do well in isolation, do not involve others.
这样的宣传非常有用——中周庄村一个小伙子从上海乘机返乡，他没有去过宝坻，但是母亲和妹妹去过宝坻百货大楼。
The publicity is useful -- a guy from Zhongzhou Village flew home from Shanghai without visiting Baodi, but his mother and sister have visited Baodi City.
有一天他发烧了，小伙子就急得赶紧跟村干部说：“大哥，不中，我发烧了，39℃，我心跳啊，现在待不住了，必须打120去医院。
One day when he had a fever, the young man hurried to the village cadre said: "Big brother, no, I have a fever, 39 degrees Celsius, my heart beating ah, now can not stay, must call 120 to the hospital.
”到了医院，医院就把他留观检查，小伙子的父亲得知这一情况后，在电话里就跟村书记冯小波哭了起来，他说：“我们要真是染上了，传了别人，这一辈子我们家就抬不起头来了。
"When he got to the hospital, he was examined by the hospital, and when his father heard about this, he began to cry to Fung Xiaobo, the village secretary.
”好在两次核酸检测呈阴性，小伙子就回来居家隔离了。
But after two negative nucleic acid tests, the young man returned home and isolated.
冯小波赶紧用大喇叭广播，告诉村民们已经排除新冠肺炎了，不能对人家有看法。
Feng Xiaobo hurriedly used the loudspeaker to broadcast, told the villagers have been cleared of the new crown pneumonia, can not have a view of others.
复工：农业时节刻不容缓代管大棚近一段时间，随着解除隔离的人越来越多，已经差不多一个月每天就睡三四个小时的周志强说心里看见点“亮”了，他说前一段时间自己的心态也跟生病了一样，一听打电话去医院就揪心。
Back to work: agricultural season without delay escrow shacks As more and more people are released, Zhou Zhiqiang, who has been sleeping three or four hours a day for almost a month, said he saw a "light" in his mind.
最近周志强又在忙着复工复产的事，现在提出申请的人越来越多，涉及外来人员较多，他需要逐个跟用工企业核实，确定得把人管理起来。
Recently, Zhou Zhiqiang has been busy returning to work, now more and more people apply, involving more and more foreign personnel, he needs to check with the employers one by one to make sure that people are managed.
下地干活的村民在出入村登记在老宋庄村村民宋国芳的蔬菜大棚里，宋国芳正在绑西红柿苗，再过半个月，这一大棚西红柿就该收获了。
Villagers who work in the fields register at the vegetable shed of Song Guofang, a villager in the old Song Dynasty. Song Guofang is tying a tomato plant.
宋国芳说，年前他就忙着蔬菜收获没有出门，疫情一来，他正好踏踏实实管理自家的大棚。
Song Guofang said he had been busy harvesting vegetables years ago. When the outbreak hit, he was running his barn.
宋国芳有5个大棚，主要种植西红柿和豆角，以前有2个工人帮忙干活，现在为了疫情防控，他们只能暂时让工人们在家待着。
Song Guofang has five greenhouses, mainly for tomatoes and beans. Two workers used to help with the work. Now they have to leave the workers at home for the control of the disease.
农活都靠宋国芳和老伴一起忙活，从早8点要忙到晚6点，为了减少进出村，他们中午也不回家了，就在棚里休息一会儿。
The farm work depends on Song Guofang and his wife, busy from 8 am to 6 pm, in order to reduce the access to the village, they do not go home at noon, just rest in the shed.
宋国芳的西红柿大棚宋国芳说，地里的农活不能停下，现在特殊时期，的确有一些不方便，他们也都理解。
Song Guofang, Song Guofang's tomato shed, said farm work in the fields could not stop.
“再说还有政府帮忙呢！”宋国芳说。
"And there is government help," said Song Guofang.
钱立军说，老百姓不干活就没有收入，这是生计问题，因此，复工复产是这一段的重点。
Qian Lijun said that the people do not work there is no income, this is a livelihood issue, so the resumption of work is the focus of this paragraph.
侯家营镇是一个设施农业大镇，很多村民都有大棚，育秧、播种春小麦也是刻不容缓。
Hou Jia Ying Town is a large facility agricultural town, many villagers have large tents, seedling-raising, planting spring wheat is also urgent.
不过疫情防控还是不能放松，可以出来干农活的是不需要居家观察或者解除隔离的人员，每天进出村都要登记、量体温。
However, the disease can not relax, can be out of the agricultural work is not the need for home observation or isolation, every day into and out of the village to register, take temperature.
雇佣其他村村民的农户，要向村委会提出申请，向镇里上报，然后涉及到哪个村，通知该村的包村干部，去核实雇工的情况，合格了才能上工干活。
Farmers who employ villagers from other villages are required to apply to the village committee and report to the township, and then to which village the village cadres should be informed to verify the condition of the workers before they can go to work.
而涉及居家隔离的人员，村里就找别人代管一下。
And when it comes to home segregation, the village looks for someone else to take care of it.
农资方面，农资部门会将农资送到村口，再发到各家各户。
Agricultural investment, the agricultural sector will send agricultural funds to the mouth of the village, and then to the families.
“只有做到防疫与生产‘两手抓’，妥善的处理二者之间的矛盾，对每一个环节严防死守、谨慎认真，才能保障农民人身健康安全、保障农村经济收入不受损失。
"Only by doing this can we properly deal with the contradictions between the two, and by strictly guarding and taking care of every link, can we ensure the personal health and safety of the peasants and the income of the rural economy from loss.
”钱立军表示。
Qian Lijun said.
记者手记蓟州区防控之严，记者深有感触。
Reporters hand-written thrips district control of the strict, reporters have a deep feeling.
一出津蓟高速上仓收费站，就感受到这里严防死守的氛围。
A Zinthistle high-speed toll station, you feel here strictly guarded atmosphere.
除了登记、测体温的一系列流程外，高速收费口的检查人员，还详细询问了记者的目的地，由于记者对于要去采访的点位说得不够具体，检查人员拒绝放行，必须由对接人员现场赶来确认。
In addition to a series of procedures to register and measure body temperature, high-speed toll gate inspectors also asked journalists in detail about their destinations. As journalists were not specific enough about the locations to be covered, the inspectors refused to release them and had to be identified on site by docking personnel.
在等待期间，记者看到一位送货到城区的人员，回村后，检查人员将送货人员的信息与村镇核实后，确定人员没有问题才对其放行。
During the waiting period, the reporter saw a delivery to the city personnel, after returning to the village, the inspectors will deliver personnel information and village verification, to determine that there are no problems before their release.
在与蓟州区的工作人员对接后，记者才跟随工作人员来到了侯家营镇，一路上，路上车辆极其稀少，每个村口都有工作人员值守。
After docking with the staff of Jiaxiao District, the reporter followed the staff to Hou Jia Ying Township. Along the way, there were very few vehicles on the road and staff were stationed at the entrance to each village.
见到了侯家营镇党委副书记、镇长钱立军时，只见他双眼中爬着红血丝，钱立军坦言，从疫情开始以来该镇的防控压力很大，最近复工复产又开始，防控方面需要解决的问题不少，但是为了守住、守好蓟州区的南大门，多辛苦都值得。
When he saw the deputy secretary of Hou Jia Yingzhen Party committee, the mayor of Qian Lijun, he saw his eyes crawling red, Qianlijun confessed that since the beginning of the epidemic, the town's prevention and control pressure since the beginning of the recent resumption of production, prevention and control need to solve many problems, but to keep good thrips, the south gate, worth it.
在采访中，记者也发现党员干部们在防控一线上的工作得到了百姓的支持和尊敬，记者询问村民宋国芳：“严密的防控会不会给生活带来不便？”老宋说：“一开始也觉得麻烦，但是这也是为我们好，我们麻烦也没有我们书记辛苦，我们书记都瘦了。
The reporter asked Song Guofang, a villager, if strict prevention and control would cause inconvenience to our life, but it was also for our good. We had no trouble and our secretaries lost weight.
”“众志成城你我他，战胜病毒靠大家。
"" You and I, we beat the virus by everyone.
”这是侯家营镇为疫情防控编写的顺口溜，干部群众唯愿疫情早日过去，恢复到正常生活。
"This is Hou Jia Ying town prepared for the prevention and control of the epidemic, cadres and people only hope that the epidemic will soon be over, back to normal life.
本期编辑 邢潭推荐阅读。
This issue editor Xingtan recommended reading.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
距天津确诊最多的区仅一河之隔，这里却保住了0。
The district with the highest number of confirmed cases in Tianjin is just one river away from Tianjin, where it remains at 0.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "距天津确诊最多的区仅一河之隔，这里却保住了0";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; &
var msg_desc = "“众志成城你我他，战胜病毒靠大家。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "You and I were at the mercy of everyone.
”";。
";;
title: '一名空乘确诊，5名复工人员被隔离',。
A flight attendant was diagnosed and five reinstated workers were quarantined with service.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '3省5个监狱共确诊555例，司法部谈疫情细节漏洞',。
Ritle: & apos; 555 cases were diagnosed in five prisons in three provinces. & nbsp; & # 160; & # 45; & Justice & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '582分钟，交卷！',。
Running: & apos; 582 minutes, handing in its paper!
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
