疫情期下的石油公司：油卖不动，口罩原材料和蔬菜成热搜。
During the outbreak of oil companies: oil sales do not, mask raw materials and vegetables into a hot search.
侯瑞宁。
Hou Rinling.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国记者：侯瑞宁  编辑：张慧“ 随着新冠肺炎疫情在全球范围相继爆发，给国际石油市场带来了新的不确定性。
2007-9-25 21: 48 "With the outbreak of new cases of pneumonia worldwide, new uncertainties have arisen in the international oil market," said Zhang Hui, editor of Vision China.
”加油站老板甄荣的苦闷终于缓解了一些。
The pain of filling station owner Zhen Rong has eased a bit.
“昨天，加油站的汽油销售量开始上升了。
"Yesterday gas station sales started to go up.
”2月23日，甄荣对界面新闻记者表示，从春节到2月中旬，他的加油站汽油日销量只有节前的20%，甚至一度下降到10%，最近两天，销售量恢复到了节前的30%。
On February 23, Zhen told reporters on the interface that daily gasoline sales at his gas stations had fallen from 20 percent to 10 percent between Spring Festival and mid-February, and that sales had recovered to 30 percent in the past two days.
在山西太原，甄荣经营着五家民营加油站。
Zhen runs five private gas stations in Taiyuan, Shanxi Province.
受疫情影响，春节期间各地交通管制严格、民众外出减少，他的加油站门可罗雀。
Affected by the epidemic, local traffic control during the Spring Festival, reduce the number of people out, his gas station door.
甄荣只能宅在家里，一边关注疫情进展，一边关注交通情况。
Zhen Rong can only live at home, while paying attention to the epidemic situation, while paying attention to the traffic situation.
2月24日，交通运输部消息称，截至2月23日，27个省份有序恢复省际省内客运班线或包车运行。
On 24 February, the Ministry of Transport reported that, as at 23 February, 27 provinces had resumed the operation of passenger or charter passenger lines in the interprovincial provinces in an orderly manner.
累计有110个地级市、137个县级市恢复地面公交运营。
A total of 110 prefectural cities and 137 county-level cities have resumed operation of public transport on the ground.
全国67.8%的城市持续全面提供地面公交服务。
Nationwide, 67.8 per cent of municipalities continue to provide comprehensive public transport services on a continuous basis.
对甄荣来说，这是一个好消息，笼罩在心里近一个月的阴霾开始逐渐褪去。
For Zhen Rong, this is a good news, shrouded in the heart for nearly a month began to fade.
骤降的销量和开工率受到疫情冲击的，不仅是民营加油站，还包括国有石油公司。
Sales and start-up rates have been hit by the epidemic, not only at private gas stations, but also at state-owned oil companies.
“今年1月，中石油成品油销量同比下降了18%。
"PetroChina's refined oil sales fell 18 per cent year on year in January.
1月25-30日，成品油平均每天销量比月计划低58%，比24日销售量降低近60%。
On January 25-30, average daily sales of refined oil products were 58% lower than the monthly plan and nearly 60% lower than the 24-day sales.
”2月20日，在cippe振威国际石油展举办的“非常时期·非常道系列在线直播会议”上，中国石油天然气集团有限公司（下称中石油）政策研究室战略与政策处处长唐廷川表示。
"On Feb. 20, Tang Tingchuan, director of strategy and policy at the China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC) Policy Research Office, held at the Cippe Zhenwei International Oil Exhibition, said on Feb.
中国最大成品油销售商中国石油化工集团有限公司（下称中石化）曾发布消息称，1月公司成品油经营量1403万吨，同比下降12.7%。
Petrochemical Group Co., the country's largest oil seller, said it sold 14.03 million tons of refined oil in January, a 12.7% decline from a year earlier.
受疫情影响，国际油价曾在短期内暴跌。
Affected by the epidemic, international oil prices have plummeted in the short term.
2月10日，布伦特和WTI油价跌至近一年来新低，分别报收于53.27美元/桶和49.57美元/桶，较1月6日高点分别下跌22.7%、21.7%。
On February 10, Brent and WTI prices hit near-one-year lows of $53.27 per barrel and $49.57 per barrel, down 22.7 per cent and 21.7 per cent, respectively, from their highs of 6 January.
国内成品油销售价格因此下跌。
Domestic oil sales prices fell as a result.
2月至今，国内汽柴油零售价已经历两次下调。
Domestic gasoline and diesel retail prices have been cut twice since February.
“两连跌”后，今年汽油价格累计下跌835元/吨，柴油价格下跌805元/吨。
After two consecutive falls, gasoline prices have fallen 835 yuan a ton and diesel prices 805 yuan a ton this year.
成品油批发价格也不例外。
Wholesale oil prices are no exception.
据金联创数据显示，截至2月21日，0#柴油批发均价为6245元/吨，环比跌幅为6.71%；92#批发均价为6333元/吨，环比跌幅为7.07%；95#批发均价为6671元/吨，环比跌幅为6.79%。
As at February 21, the average wholesale price of 0 # diesel had dropped 6.71%, compared with 6.71%, while the average wholesale price of 92 # was 6.333 yuan / ton, a 7.07% decrease, and the average wholesale price of 95 # was 6,671 yuan / ton, a decrease of 6.79%.
天然气消费也受到影响，库存量不断升高。
Consumption of natural gas has also been affected, and inventories are rising.
据唐廷川介绍，受工业用户停工影响，1月25日到1月30日，中石油平均每天的天然气销量比计划低了4000万-5000万立方米，预计工业用户复工前销量将维持目前水平。
Between January 25 and January 30, CNPC's average daily gas sales were 40 million to 50 million cubic meters lower than planned, and industrial sales are expected to remain at current levels until industrial users resume work, Tang said.
同期，中石油天然气管网管存比目标管存高0.6亿立方米；LNG接收站气化量由5000万立方米/日降至1600万立方米/日左右。
During the same period, CNPC pipe network management was 0.6 billion cubic metres higher than the target; the LNG receiving station gasification decreased from 50 million cubic metres per day to about 16 million cubic metres per day.
天然气价格因此下挫严重。
Gas prices fell sharply as a result.
据卓创资讯统计，截至2月18日，中国LNG出厂均价为3375.79元/吨，同比下跌22.59%，部分地市省网价格下调10%。
As of February 18, the average price of LNG factory gate in China was 3375.79 yuan per tonne, down 22.59 percent year on year, and 10 percent lower in some cities and provinces, according to ZhuoChuang Information Statistics.
LNG现货到岸创下历史新低。
LNG spot landed at an all-time low.
截至2月17日，中日韩LNG到岸均价为2.82美元/百万英热，其中，中国LNG到岸均价为2.82美元/百万英热，折合人民币1025.75元/吨，同比下滑72.7%。
As of February 17, the average CIF price of LNG in China, Japan and South Korea was US $2.82 / mln, with an average CIF price of US $2.82 / mln, equivalent to 1025.75 yuan / tonne, down 72.7 per cent year on year.
从消费终端向上延伸，不论是“三桶油”炼化业务，还是山东地方炼厂，开工率均创下新低。
From the consumer terminal upward, whether "three barrels of oil" refinery business, or Shandong local refinery, the start rate has set a new low.
2月25日，大宗商品咨询机构金联创的监测数据显示，疫情影响叠加部分炼厂计划内检修，2月，国内主营炼厂平均开工率降至70%附近，环比下降近13个百分点；地方炼厂平均开工率跌至40%以下，环比下降20个百分点以上。
On February 25, monitoring data from Kim Lianliang, a commodity consultancy, showed that the impact of the epidemic was overhauled in some refineries. In February, the average operating rate at the main domestic refinery fell to around 70 per cent, a drop of nearly 13 percentage points over the ring.
“从行业纵向上比，油气销售终端和炼化领域受到的影响较大。
"Vertically, oil and gas sales terminals and refineries have been more affected.
但从横向上看，在全国各行业尤其是服务行业均受到巨大冲击的背景下，油气行业受到的冲击属于正常情况。
However, horizontally, the impact on the oil and gas industry is normal under the background of the huge impact on all industries, especially the service industry.
”自然资源部油气中心原副总工程师岳来群对界面新闻记者表示。
YueLai Qun, a former deputy chief engineer at the Natural Resources Department's Oil and Gas Center, told reporters on the interface.
油气、口罩和蔬菜目前看，油气行业上游勘探开发领域受到的冲击最小。
Oil, gas, masks and vegetables, the upstream oil and gas industry exploration and development sector has been the least affected.
“三桶油”油气产量较为稳定。
"Three barrels of oil" oil and gas production is relatively stable.
2月21日，中石油长庆油田内部员工对界面新闻记者表示，油气田生产运营平稳，只是因交通管制及14天隔离等因素，员工返工率较低，增加了在岗员工的工作强度。
On February 21, workers inside the Changqing Oilfield told interfacial reporters that the production and operation of oil and gas fields was stable, but due to factors such as traffic control and 14-day isolation, the rework rate of employees was low, increasing the intensity of work of the employees on the job.
钻井等上游勘探业务，基本未受到影响。
The upstream exploration business, such as drilling, has remained largely unaffected.
因为按以往工作周期，北方地区的钻井业务，在3月天气转暖、大地解冻之后才开始大规模施工；南方地区则等到雨季过后开始钻井施工。
Because of previous work cycles, drilling operations in the north did not begin large-scale construction until March, when the weather became warmer and the ground thawed, while in the south drilling began after the rainy season.
据唐廷川介绍，在原油业务链上，中石油将继续大力提升勘探开发力度，保障油气田油气正常生产。
In the crude oil business chain, PetroChina will continue to vigorously promote exploration and development efforts to ensure the normal production of oil and gas fields, said Tang.
作为中石油最大油气田，长庆油田今年的生产目标为6000万吨。
As PetroChina's largest oil and gas field, Changqing Oilfield has a production target of 60 million tons this year.
春节期间，长庆油田日均生产天然气约1.35亿立方米，天然气日均销售量超过计划412万立方米。
During the Spring Festival, Changqing Oilfield produces about 135 million cubic meters of natural gas per day, with an average daily sales of 4.12 million cubic meters.
天然气总生产量、日产量和外供量，均创历史最高纪录。
Total natural gas production, daily production and external supply all reached record levels.
中石化的油气产量也保持增长。
Sinopec's oil and gas production also grew.
今年1月，中石化生产原油298万吨，同比持平；生产天然气26.2亿立方米，同比增长5.7%。
In January, Sinopec produced 2.98 million tons of crude oil, the same amount year on year, and 2.62 billion cubic meters of natural gas, 5.7 per cent year on year.
2月12日，中国海洋石油有限公司（00883.HK）宣布，渤中34-9油田已投产。
On February 12, China Ocean Oil Co. Ltd. (00883.HK) announced that Bozhong 34-9 oil field had been put into production.
该油田预计2022年将实现日产原油超过2.25万桶的高峰产量。
The field is expected to reach a peak production of more than 22,500 barrels per day in 2022.
“油气田生产需要连续性和稳定性，一般情况下不能关井限产，否则要恢复生产非常困难。
"Oil and gas field production needs continuity and stability. Under normal circumstances it is difficult to shut down wells and limit production, otherwise it is very difficult to resume production.
”中国石油大学中国油气产业发展研究中心副主任刘毅军认为，虽然目前成品油消费下降幅度较大，但这仅是短期因素。
Liu Yi Jun, deputy director of the China National Petroleum Industry Development Research Center at the China Petroleum University, said that while current consumption of refined oil products had fallen considerably, it was only a short-term factor.
“在动荡复杂的国际形势下，中国要保障能源安全，必须加大国内油气资源的供应，这是大势所趋。
"In a turbulent and complex international situation, it is a trend for China to increase the supply of domestic oil and gas resources in order to ensure energy security.
”刘毅军称。
"said Liu Yi Jun.
去年年初，“三桶油”相继出台强化国内勘探开发的“七年行动计划”。
At the beginning of last year, the Three Drums of Oil released a seven-year action plan to strengthen domestic exploration and development.
随后，国内油气勘探开发领域的捷报频传。
Subsequently, domestic oil and gas exploration and development of the field of rapid transmission.
2019年，中国原油生产结束三年来的下降局面，重上1.91亿吨。
In 2019, after three years of declining crude oil production, China weighed 191 million tons.
中国石油经济技术研究院发布的《2019年国内外油气行业发展报告》预测，由于国内增储上产的成效进一步显现，2020年国内原油产量将达1.94亿吨，同比增长1.57%。
The 2019 Domestic and International Oil and Gas Industry Development Report released by the China Institute of Petroleum Economics and Technology predicts that domestic crude oil production will reach 194 million tons in 2020, an increase of 1.57 per cent year on year, as a result of further gains in domestic reserves.
面对疫情，上游企业的工作“岿然不动”。
In the face of the epidemic, upstream firms are "still" working.
但岳来群担心，如果疫情还将持续一段时间，国内炼化开工率仍然低位运行、成品油消费终端低迷，那油气资源的“憋库、憋管”现象将较为严重。
But YueLai Qun is worried that if the epidemic will continue for some time, domestic refinery and chemical operation rate is still low, product consumption terminal is low, then the phenomenon of "suffocation, bottling pipe" will be more serious.
这是让油公司头疼的问题之一。
This is one of the headaches for oil companies.
为了应对“黑天鹅”带来的冲击，石油公司采取了多项举措。
Oil companies have taken a number of steps in response to the impact of the Black Swan.
唐廷川表示，目前中石油严格控制海上原油进口，采取少订货、推迟到货以及国际转售等措施，且严格控制成品油外采，并努力扩大成品油出口，提前安排船期。
At present, PetroChina strictly controls the import of offshore crude oil, adopts measures such as fewer orders, delayed arrival and international resale, strictly controls the extraction of refined oil, and strives to expand oil exports and schedule shipments ahead of time, Mr Tang said.
据金联创监测数据显示，当前国内汽柴油出口利润可观，炼厂出口积极性较高。
According to monitoring data show that domestic gasoline and diesel export profit is considerable, refinery export enthusiasm is high.
2020年下发的第一批成品油出口配额总量为2800万吨，同比大涨30.27%，主营炼厂的出口任务比较重。
In 2020, the first batch of export quotas for refined oil was 28 million tons, up 30.27 percent year on year.
针对天然气业务，“中石油调减储气库采气量，由之前的7400万立方米/日降至4000万立方米/日。
For the gas business, "PetroChina reduced its gas storage capacity from 74 million cubic metres per day to 40 million cubic metres per day.
”唐廷川称，且对中亚、俄罗斯、缅甸的进口管道气，依据疫情爆发的不可抗力进行了调减。
Mr Tang said imports of pipeline gas from Central Asia, Russia and Myanmar had been cut in line with the force majeure of the outbreak.
此外，中石油推迟进口LNG船到岸时间，继续利用接收站进行调节；加大与下游用户沟通协调，做好化肥、化工等企业复工前准备工作，争取进一步增加销量。
In addition, PetroChina postponed the arrival time of the LNG vessel and continued to use the receiving station for adjustment; increased communication and coordination with downstream users; and made preparations for the resumption of work of chemical fertilizer and chemical enterprises in order to further increase sales.
除正常的油气生产外，石油公司还扩大了防疫物资的生产能力，加大医用物资、消杀用品原材料的供应。
In addition to normal oil and gas production, oil companies have expanded the production capacity of epidemic prevention materials and increased the supply of medical supplies and raw materials for sterilization.
这也成为近期石油公司的热门新闻。
It has also become the latest hot news for oil companies.
作为国内年产近百万吨的最大医卫用材料供应商，中石化2月6日发布消息称，公司已向市场投放聚丙烯等医卫原料1.5万吨，预计2月继续生产原料约8万吨，且将增加消毒液的原料供应。
Sinopec, the country's largest supplier of medical and health-care materials with an annual output of nearly one million tons, said Tuesday that it had put 15,000 tons of polypropylene and other medical materials on the market, expected to continue to produce about 80,000 tons in February, and will increase the supply of raw materials for disinfectant.
聚丙烯是口罩的重要原材料。
Polypropylene is an important raw material for masks.
中石油部分炼化企业也开始转产、升级、扩产。
Some of PetroChina's refineries also began to convert, upgrade and expand production.
截至2月9日，中石油累计生产医用物资原料6.43万吨。
As of February 9, PetroChina had accumulated 64,300 tons of raw materials for medical use.
在成品油销售端，“两桶油”扩充了非油品业务，第一次在部分省市便利店售卖蔬菜。
On the sales side, "two barrels" expanded its non-oil business, selling vegetables for the first time in convenience stores in some provinces and municipalities.
中石化北京石油分公司、中石油辽宁销售鞍山分公司等均在各自加油站推出了绿色蔬菜套餐。
Sinopec Beijing Petroleum Branch, Liaoning PetroChina sales Anshan Branch, and other gas stations have launched a green vegetable package.
在销售模式上，“两桶油”还开始采用加油不下车、开票不进店、购物不接触的方式。
In the sales mode, "two barrels of oil" also began to use refueling do not get out of the car, tickets do not enter the store, shopping untouched.
疫情过后的变化新冠疫情的拐点尚未到来，但业内专家普遍认为，疫情对国际油价和国内油气市场的影响是短期且有限的。
The inflection point of the new crown epidemic has not yet arrived, but industry experts generally agree that the epidemic's impact on international oil prices and domestic oil and gas markets is short-term and limited.
在2月23日举行的cippe振威国际石油展“战疫情·非常时期油企在行动”直播会议上，中石油经济技术研究院副院长刘朝全预测，疫情之后，国际原油均价维持在57-64美元/桶。
The average international price of crude oil remained at US $57-64 per barrel after the outbreak, predicted Liu Chaoquan, vice-dean of the China Petroleum Economics and Technology Institute, at a live conference on February 23.
“一季度，国际油价受到影响，比预期约低3美元/桶，但随着积极政策出台，后三个季度的油价会逐步反弹。
"International oil prices were affected in the first quarter, about $3 a barrel below expectations, but with aggressive policies in place, oil prices will rebound gradually over the next three quarters."
”刘朝全称。
"Liu full name.
也有机构认为，近一周来，疫情在伊朗、伊拉克、意大利、韩国等国家爆发，给国际石油市场会带来了新的不确定性，需重新评估疫情对市场的影响。
In the past week, the outbreak has erupted in Iran, Iraq, Italy and South Korea, creating new uncertainties for international oil markets and requiring a reassessment of the impact of the epidemic on markets.
2月25日，全球商业资讯服务供应商IHS Markit指出，韩国是亚洲第四大石油需求市场，意大利是欧洲第五大需求市场，伊朗是中东第二大需求市场。
On February 25, IHS Markit, a global business information services provider, said South Korea was Asia's fourth largest oil demand market, Italy the fifth largest European demand market and Iran the second largest Middle East demand market.
再加上中国地区的原油需求量，全球约两成的原油需求，正面临新冠疫情的考验。
Coupled with the demand for crude in China, about 20 per cent of the world's oil demand is facing the test of a new crown.
2月24日，国际油价在连续多日上涨后迎来大幅下跌，布伦特原油期货价格一度跌超5%。
Oil prices fell sharply on Feb. 24, after days of rising prices, with Brent crude falling below 5%.
截至北京时间2月25日收盘，4月交货的WTI原油期货价格下跌3.65%，报收51.43美元/桶；布伦特原油期货价格下跌3.76%，报收56.3美元/桶。
WTI crude for April delivery fell 3.65 per cent to $51.43 a barrel, while Brent crude fell 3.76 per cent to $56.3 per barrel.
疫情对国际油价的影响具有不确定性，但对中小油气化工企业的巨大影响已经形成。
The impact of the epidemic on international oil prices is uncertain, but it has a great impact on small and medium-sized petrochemical enterprises.
隆众资讯对1500多家能源化工企业进行调查后发现，虽然企业复工情况较好，但仍然存在较多挑战。
Longzhong Information survey of more than 1500 energy chemical enterprises found that although the situation is better, but there are still more challenges.
例如，产品需求不足导致企业订单量、营收减少，仓储物流运输人员到岗受限，产能恢复速度慢，企业成本和资金压力加大，疫情演变存在不确定性影响企业的生产安排等。
For example, insufficient demand for products has led to a reduction in business orders and revenues, restrictions on the arrival of warehouse and logistics transport personnel, slow recovery of production capacity, increased cost and financial pressures on enterprises, and uncertainty about the evolution of the epidemic affecting the production arrangements of enterprises.
“企业已经做好了过冬的准备。
"Companies are ready for the winter.
”隆众资讯副总经理兼首席战略官闫建涛称，除了坚持生产自求、保持合理的开工率之外，接受调研的企业期望政府能够给予阶段性税收扶持，实行减免退。
Yan Jiantao, vice-general manager and chief strategic officer of Longzhong Information, said that in addition to insisting on production self-demand and maintaining a reasonable start-up rate, companies surveyed expect the government to provide phased tax support and reduce or refund.
企业还希望得到金融支持，缓解资金压力，以及逐步改善仓储运输环节，加强流转等。
Enterprises also hope to receive financial support to ease the pressure on funds, as well as gradually improve warehousing transport links, strengthen circulation and so on.
在2月24日举办的国务院新闻办发布会上，国家发改委党组成员、秘书长丛亮表示，各地各部门已陆续出台了有力有效的对冲政策。
At a press conference of the State Council held on February 24, Cong Liang, a member of the NDRC party group and secretary-general, said that various departments around the country had successively put in place strong and effective hedging policies.
比如，降低企业用能成本；设立3000亿元专项再贷款，为防控物资重点企业提供低利率资金；阶段性减免企业社保费和职工医保费，对部分行业和个人减免增值税和所得税等。
For example, it has set up 300 billion yuan in special reloans to provide low-interest funding for key enterprises in the prevention and control of materials.
“疫情过后，会出现新的兼并和重组，预计数量高于前年和去年。
"There will be new mergers and restructurings in the aftermath of the epidemic, which are expected to be higher than last year."
中小型企业要利用好国家政策。
SMEs need to take advantage of national policies.
”刘朝全建议，特别是利用好金融工具。
Mr Liu suggests, especially using good financial instruments.
此外，成品油销售端将更加关注线上服务的模式。
In addition, product sellers will pay more attention to the online service model.
闫建涛认为，成品油销售会从线下逐渐走到线上，建设更多的油气交易平台是大趋势；面对消费者的业务，将越来越进入白热化的竞争。
Yan Jiantao believes that product sales will gradually move from offline to online, building more oil and gas trading platforms is a big trend.
尽快完善应急物资储备体系，也成为企业加强管理的重要任务。
To improve the emergency material reserve system as soon as possible has also become an important task for enterprises to strengthen management.
唐廷川建议，企业应系统梳理此次疫情中暴露出的应急物资储备体系短板，从应急物资的储备品类规模结构、生产组织能力、来源渠道等各个环节不断完善相关工作机制和应急预案。
Tang suggested that enterprises should systemically comb the emergency supplies reserve system exposed in the epidemic, from the size structure of emergency supplies, production organization capacity, source channels and other links continuously improve the relevant working mechanism and emergency plan.
（应采访者要求，甄荣为化名）未经授权 禁止转载。
(At the request of the interviewer, Zhen Rong is an alias) is prohibited from being reproduced without authorization.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情期下的石油公司：油卖不动，口罩原材料和蔬菜成热搜。
During the outbreak of oil companies: oil sales do not, mask raw materials and vegetables into a hot search.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "疫情期下的石油公司：油卖不动，口罩原材料和蔬菜成热搜";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "随着新冠肺炎疫情在全球范围相继爆发，给国际石油市场带来了新的不确定性。
var msg _ desc = & quot; with the outbreak of new cases of pneumonia worldwide, new uncertainties have emerged in the international oil market.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
