高价口罩是如何流向市场的？。
How do high-priced masks flow to the market?
柯晓斌。
Koh Xiaobin.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国记者：柯晓斌 编辑：文姝琪“ 随着疫情缓解，口罩价格开始回落。
Photo Source: Visual Chinese Journalist: Gao Xiaobin, editor: NINNINGJIE: "As the epidemic subsided, the price of masks began to fall.
”随着复工潮来临，“买不到口罩”还是上班族的难题。
"The lack of masks is a challenge for office workers as the return to work apace.
在天猫、京东、苏宁等电商平台上，消费者仍能在手速快或运气好的情况下，抢到几个由正规医疗器械厂商发出的口罩。
On electric business platforms such as Tiantong, Jingdong and Suning, consumers can still snatch several masks from regular medical device manufacturers with quick or good luck.
而在更隐秘的微商等个人渠道中，医疗口罩也会不时出现，但价格普遍昂贵。
And in more secretive personal channels, such as micro-business, medical masks will appear from time to time, but are generally expensive.
疫情发生后，为保障一线医护人员能正常使用，口罩作为医疗物资被纳入政府直接管理的体系。
After the outbreak, in order to ensure the normal use of front-line medical personnel, masks as medical supplies into the system under the direct management of the Government.
1月29日，国务院发布国务院办公厅印发《关于组织做好疫情防控重点物资生产企业复工复产和调度安排工作的紧急通知》。
On January 29, the State Council issued the "Emergency Notice on Organizing the Work of Restarting Production and Scheduling of Key Material Production Enterprises for Disease Control and Prevention."
《通知》规定，各省（区、市）人民政府要迅速组织本地区生产应对疫情使用相关的药品企业复工复产。
The Notice stipulates that the people's governments of provinces (districts and cities) shall promptly organize local production to resume production of pharmaceutical enterprises concerned with the epidemic situation.
同时，由国务院应对新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情联防联控机制物资保障组负责对防控物资实施统一管理、统一调拨。
At the same time, the State Council should handle the new coronavirus infection pneumonia epidemic prevention and control mechanism material support group is responsible for the prevention and control of the unified management, allocation.
在这样的背景下，高价口罩是如何流向市场的？原材料上涨，厂商其实不赚钱春节过后，原本打算捐款的陈明（化名）决定自己投产口罩。
In this context, how do high-priced masks flow to the market? Raw materials are rising, and the manufacturer decided not to make money after the Spring Festival, the Chen Ming (not his real name), who had intended to donate, decided to start his own mask.
他和多位朋友一起筹集了200万元人民币，在广东某市搭建了2条口罩生产线。
Together with a group of friends, he raised two million yuan to build a production line for two masks in a city in Guangdong province.
决定转产后，他花了一百万元购买了两台口罩机，因为他们主要生产医用外科口罩，需要搭建10万级以上的洁净车间，同时需配备实验室， 对生产出来的口罩进行抽检，确保质量。
After deciding to convert, he spent $1 million on two respirators, which mainly produce medical surgical masks and require a 100,000-plus cleanup workshop, as well as laboratories to sample and ensure the quality of the masks produced.
“搭建无菌车间和购买相应设备也花了50万左右。
"It took about half a million dollars to set up sterile workshops and buy the equipment.
”“从注册公司到正式投产大概只花了一个礼拜左右的时间。
"It took about a week or so to get the company registered and put into production.
”陈明透露，因为是生产医疗物资企业，注册公司走了绿色通道，所有流程走完只花了一天左右。
Mr Chen revealed that it took only a day or so for all the processes to be completed because the company was producing medical supplies and the company had gone through the green channel.
生产出口罩样品之后，经过相关单位的检测，口罩质量达标之后，立马拿到了生产、经营许可证。
After the production of a mask sample, after the relevant unit testing, the quality of the mask up to standard, immediately obtained the production, business license.
目前，他们一共有50位工人在流水线上作业，日均产量在20万只左右。
A total of 50 workers are currently working on the water line, with an average daily output of about 200,000.
“工厂24小时都有相关政府职能单位的人员值守，每生产出一批口罩都是由他们直接拉走，统一调配。
"The factory is manned 24 hours a day by staff from the relevant government departments, who pull out a single batch of masks and distribute them directly.
”陈明表示。
"said Mr Chen.
2月7日，在广东省政府新闻办召开疫情防控新闻发布会上，广东省工业和信息化厅厅长涂高坤介绍表示，对医用防护服、医用防护面罩、医用口罩等生产企业，为增加产能购置设备，最高奖励可达购置额80%。
On February 7, the Guangdong Provincial Government Information Office held a press conference on the prevention and control of the epidemic, Guangdong Provincial Government Minister of Industry and Information Technology, Tu Gaokun, said that the maximum reward for equipment to increase production capacity was 80 percent for medical protective clothing, medical masks and medical masks.
“这个补贴是在50%到80%之间，每个区的政策也有所差异，但是目前没有明确什么时候会给出这个补贴。
"The subsidy is between 50 and 80 percent and varies from region to region, but it is not clear when it will be given.
”陈明表示。
"said Mr Chen.
地方政府征用的口罩均以成本价向陈明支付。
All masks requisitioned by the local government are paid at cost price.
但与此同时，竞争者变多，而原材料却开始大涨。
But at the same time, competitors became more numerous, while raw materials began to soar.
在口罩稀缺的背景之下，新增进入这个行业的厂商不在少数。
In the face of the scarcity of masks, the new entrants into the industry is not a few manufacturers.
据第三方平台天眼查统计，以工商注册变更信息为标准，自2020年1月1日至2月7日，全国有超过3000家企业经营范围新增了“口罩、防护服、消毒液、测温仪、医疗器械”等业务。
From January 1 to February 7, 2020, more than 3,000 enterprises across the country added mask, protective clothing, disinfectant, thermometer and medical equipment to their business scope according to the third-party platform Skyeye.
其中，经营范围新增医疗器械的企业多达3647家。
Among them, the scope of business as many as 3647 new medical equipment enterprises.
据陈明介绍，随着口罩成为必须品后，口罩机的价格也水涨船高，从年前的10万一台变成了现在的50万一台，甚至有供应商把价格炒到了100多万。
According to Chen, the price of the mask machine has soared since it became a must-have item, from 100,000 a year ago to 500,000 now.
“作为口罩生产的主要原料之一的熔喷布，2月12号的价格是35元每公斤，一个礼拜之后就变成了290元每公斤。
"One of the main ingredients in mask production is a melting pot, which costs 35 yuan per kilogram on February 12 and 290 yuan a kilogram a week later.
”陈明说， 加上特殊阶段返工的工人工资也比平常要高，这导致口罩的生产成本比原来高出几倍。
Adding in the higher-than-usual wages for workers reworking in special phases, Chen says, has led to production costs for masks that are several times higher.
“以前，生产一个医用外科口罩的成本不到0.2元，现在可能需要1元多。
"It used to cost less than 0.2 yuan to produce a surgical mask, but now it may cost more than 1 yuan.
”陈明说，如果全部按照成本价交由政府采购的话，厂家可能实际上是亏损的。
If all of it is bought at cost to the government, the manufacturers may actually be losing money, Chen said.
对冲亏损，部分口罩流向市场为了对冲亏损的部分，正规生产商除了满足政府采购，同时也在将部分口罩自行销售。
To hedge their losses, some face masks are flowing into the market. In addition to meeting government purchases, regular producers are selling some of their masks on their own.
界面新闻记者进入了一个名为“互助小组”的微信群，这里每天依然有人在分享团购口罩的信息。
Interface journalists have entered a microcosm called "mutual help groups," where people continue to share information about buying masks every day.
记者以企业复工需批量采购口罩为由，联系上一位中间人，对方给记者发来两个公司的相关生产、经营许可证，并称有亲戚在公司承包车间，当天可以发4箱总计两万只口罩。
Reporters used a middleman to contact a reporter because they needed to buy face masks in bulk. The reporter said that relatives in the company's contracted workshop would be able to deliver 4 cases totalling 20,000 masks on the same day.
“这批口罩有单位公章、质检报告，还有出货单。
"These masks have the unit seal, the quality report and the delivery report.
可以发东航空件或者顺丰，我们在厂里都是交了押金的。
We can send Dongfang airmail or Shunfeng, we have paid a deposit in the factory.
”湖北某地曾参与过政府采购的张斌（化名）对界面新闻记者表示，在政府进行统一管理之前，有些企业为了资金回笼，加班加点的生产口罩，在满足政府所需之后，再拿出一部分通过网上的渠道进行销售。
Zhang Bin (not his real name), who worked on government procurement in a certain part of Hubei province, told reporters on the interface that some companies had worked overtime to produce masks to meet the government's needs before unified government management, and then part of it was sold through online channels.
除了大厂，大量的口罩小作坊也是处于这样的状态。
In addition to large factories, a large number of small mask workshops are also in this state.
“中国口罩产量仍占据全球的50%，口罩企业主要布局在长三角、珠三角、湖北仙桃和安徽桐城，知名口罩企业20多家，而湖北仙桃有3000来家口罩企业，是个产业集群，不过仙桃口罩企业95%以上是出口的，家庭式的小作坊生产，一家一厂。
"China still accounts for 50 percent of the world's mask production. Mask companies are mainly located in the Yangtze River Delta, Pearl River Delta, Hubei Xiantao and Anhui Province.
”国家劳动保护用品质量监督检验中心（武汉）主任刘宏斌在接受《华夏时报》采访时表示。
Liu Hongbin, director of the State Labor Protection Quality Supervision and Inspection Center (Wuhan), told The China Times.
张斌表示，口罩属于医疗物资，疫情爆发之前，国家对其的生产、经营许可管控较严格，很多企业过去拿不到相关的齐全手续，只能进行小作坊的模式生产。
Before the outbreak of the epidemic, the state exercised strict control over its production and business licenses, and many enterprises could not get all the necessary formalities and could only produce small workshops, Zhang said.
而这些企业本身并没有足够的现金流，抗风险能力也较弱，所以也会想办法自行销售部分口罩。
And these enterprises themselves do not have enough cash flow, the ability to resist risk is weak, so will find ways to sell some of their masks.
“目前，在市场上流通的口罩，主要是海外代购，或者是小作坊生产。
"At present, the masks that circulate in the market are mainly purchased overseas or produced in small factories.
”深圳海王星辰医药公司市场总监刘承龙告诉界面新闻记者，他们过去对接的两个大厂表示已经没有办法供货了，他们只能另外找了替代渠道。
Liu Chenglong, marketing director for Shenzhen-based Haiwang Xingchen Pharmaceutical, told the interface reporter that the two large factories they had docked in the past had said they could no longer supply, so they had to find alternative channels.
价格正在回落2月24日，在国新办举行新闻发布会上，国家发改委秘书长丛亮表示：截至2月22日，我国口罩日产量已经达到5477万只。
Prices are falling Feb. 24, China's National Development and Reform Commission Secretary-General Cong Liang said: As of February 22, the daily output of masks reached 54.77 million.
比2月1日增长2.8倍，近20天累计生产口罩5.7亿只，口罩企业产能利用率已达到110%。
It has increased 2.8-fold since February 1, producing 570 million face masks over the past 20 days, and its capacity utilization rate has reached 110 percent.
此前，界面新闻计算，在第二产业、医疗、交通运输业等行业复工的情况下，每天将有2.38亿人需要戴口罩；若是全面复工，按照第四次全国经济普查数据，国内法人单位和个体经营户合计就业人口为5.33亿人，按每人每天一只口罩计算，每天至少需要5.33亿只口罩。
Previously, Interface News calculated that 238 million people would need to wear masks every day when industries such as secondary industry, medical care, transportation, etc., were to resume full-scale work. According to the fourth national economic census, 533 million people were employed in domestic enterprises and self-employed households, requiring at least 533 million masks per person per day.
由此可见，口罩需求的缺口依然存在。
So the gap in demand for masks remains.
但在陈明看来，随着疫情在全国范围内得到控制，口罩慌会慢慢的到改善。
But in Chen's view, with the epidemic under control across the country, the mask panic will slowly improve.
“现在价格高昂的口罩机在三月底就可能会回归到原来的价格，而那些炒口罩机的商家，将面临着无法转卖的情况。
"High-priced masks could be back at their original price by the end of March, and businesses that burn masks face the prospect of being unable to resell them," he said.
”陈明说。
"said Chen Ming.
家住北京市朝阳区的王女士发现，部分微商渠道的口罩价格已经有所回落。
Ms. Wang, who lives in Beijing's Chaoyang district, found that prices of masks in some micro-business channels have fallen.
她认识的微商开始主动兜售起了口罩。
The micromarketers she knew began to offer to sell their masks.
现在韩国KF94价格23元一个，一次性医用口罩则是4.9元一个，100个起订——尽管价格还是很贵，但在两周之前，同一个人手上的KF94的价格达到32元，而后者起订量需要到1000个。
South Korea's KF94 is now priced at $23 a head, disposable medical masks are set at $4.9, and 100 sets are on sale - the same person's KF94 was worth $32 two weeks ago, compared with a minimum of 1,000 for the latter.
深圳海王星辰医药公司市场总监刘承龙表示，之前，因为口罩的销售额在其整个药店的销售额的占比基本可以忽略不计，疫情期间，因为需求巨大，导致供不应求。
Liu Chenglong, marketing director for Shenzhen-based Haiwang Xingchen Pharmaceuticals, said previously, because sales of masks accounted for a negligible percentage of sales throughout its pharmacies, demand was outstripping supply during the epidemic because of the huge demand.
但随着疫情缓解，口罩的供应会回归于原来的状态。
But as the epidemic eases, the supply of masks will return to the status quo ante.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
高价口罩是如何流向市场的？。
How do high-priced masks flow to the market?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "高价口罩是如何流向市场的？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; How did high-priced masks go to the market?;
var msg_desc = "随着疫情缓解，口罩价格开始回落。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Mask prices began to fall as the epidemic eased.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
