无症状感染者是否会传染？研究显示传染期最长或超29天。
Does asymptomatic infection infect? Studies show that the longest period of infection or more than 29 days.
刘世龙。
Liu Shilong.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：图虫实习记者：刘世龙“ 我国辽宁、浙江、山东等多个省份都发现了无症状感染者，且部分地区甚至还出现了疑似无症状感染者成为传播源的案例。
2007-9-25 21: 48 "China's Liaoning, Zhejiang, Shandong and other provinces have found asymptomatic infection, and in some areas even suspected asymptomatic infection has become a source of transmission.
”无症状新冠病毒感染者是否也会传染？日前，南京市第二医院（南京中医药大学附属南京医院）、南京医科大学等团队发表的一项基于24个病例的研究成果显示，无症状感染者也具有传染性，并且病毒传染期最长可达29天。
A recent study based on 24 cases by teams from Nanjing Hospital No. 2 (Nanjing Hospital) and Nanjing Medical University showed asymptomatic infections can also be contagious for up to 29 days.
什么是无症状感染者？根据《新型冠状病毒肺炎诊疗方案(试行第五版)》介绍，无症状感染者指的是“无临床症状，呼吸道等标本新型冠状病毒学检测阳性者。
What is asymptomatic infection? According to the New Coronavirus Pneumonia Diagnosis and Treatment Scheme (Trial 5th Edition), asymptomatic infected persons refer to those who have no clinical symptoms, such as respiratory tract samples, a new coronavirus positive test.
”简单地说，就是没有发热、咳嗽、乏力等临床症状，但新冠病毒核酸检测却呈阳性，这些人体内携带有新型冠状病毒，却还没有发病。
In a nutshell, there were no clinical signs of fever, cough or fatigue, but the new coronavirus tested positive for coronavirus, a new coronavirus that has yet to develop.
此前，我国辽宁、浙江、山东等多个省份都发现了无症状感染者，且部分地区甚至还出现了疑似无症状感染者成为传播源的案例。
Prior to this, China's Liaoning, Zhejiang, Shandong and other provinces have been found asymptomatic infection, and some areas even suspected asymptomatic infection has become a source of transmission.
最早在2020年1月24日，香港大学微生物系教授袁国勇等人发表于《柳叶刀》的研究发现，新冠病毒在深圳一个七口之家中的六位家庭成员中存在人传人和跨城市传播，其中一名孩子并未表现出临床症状。
A study published in The Lancet by Professor Yuan Guoyong and others in the Department of Microbiology of the University of Hong Kong on January 24, 2020 found that the virus spreads from person to person and across cities among six members of a family of seven in Shenzhen, with one child showing no clinical symptoms.
1月27日，河南媒体又报道，一名女子1月10日从武汉回到河南安阳后，家中5名亲属陆续发病，被确诊为新冠肺炎，而她本人并未出现症状。
A woman returned to Anyang, Henan Province, on January 10 from Wuhan when five of her family members developed symptoms and were diagnosed with pneumonia, Henan media reported on January 27.
不过，并不是所有发现的无症状感染者都会被纳入统计。
However, not all asymptomatic infections detected are counted.
国家卫生健康委副主任曾益新2月14日曾介绍，现在对外公布疑似病例和确诊病例，无症状感染者不在报告范围之列，不对外公布。
Zeng Yixin, deputy director of the National Health Council, said on February 14 that suspected and confirmed cases are now being made public, and asymptomatic infections are not covered by the report.
但是无症状感染者，如果在集中隔离期间，出现发烧等临床症状，会将其作为确诊病例，并对外予以公布。
But asymptomatic infection, if in the period of intensive isolation, such as fever, clinical symptoms, will be treated as a confirmed case, and made public.
针对无症状感染者的特殊情况，日前，南京市第二医院（南京中医药大学附属南京医院）联合南京医科大学等研究团队，对南京市1月28日至2月9日之间医院和社区内所有新冠病毒密切接触者进行了流行病学调查，并对其中经咽拭子核酸检测呈阳性的24例无症状感染者的临床特征进行了研究。
In response to the special case of asymptomatic infected persons, the Nanjing Second Hospital (Nanjing Hospital attached to Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine) and other research teams recently conducted an epidemiological survey of all close contacts of the new crown virus in hospitals and communities between January 28 and February 9 in Nanjing.
据悉，接受调查的病例中有各个年龄段的新冠病毒无症状感染者，年龄范围为5至95岁（中位年龄32.5岁），其中20.8％的病例年龄在15岁以下。
The cases included asymptomatic new crown virus infections of all ages, ranging from 5 to 95 years of age (median age 32.5 years), with 20.8 per cent of cases under the age of 15.
在24个病例中，有5位病例住院期间出现了发烧症状(体温在36.5°C-38.0°C之间波动，不属于高烧)。
In 5 of the 24 cases, fever developed during hospitalization (the body temperature fluctuated between 36.5 ° C - 38.0 ° C, not a high fever).
其中部分病例出现了咳嗽、头晕、疲劳和鼻塞症状。
Some of the cases presented with cough, dizziness, fatigue and stuffy nose.
此外，还有5位病例在住院期间出现了短暂症状，包括畏寒、腹泻和皮疹，但这些症状已由临床专家小组讨论，被认为是静脉内免疫球蛋白的注射反应。
In addition, five cases presented with transient symptoms during hospitalization, including chills, diarrhoea and rashes, but these symptoms have been discussed by clinical experts and are believed to be intravenous immunoglobulin injection responses.
因此，以上10个病例未归类为新冠病毒引起症状的病例。
As a result, the above 10 cases were not classified as symptomatic of the new crown virus.
值得注意的是，论文显示，入院时所有24个病例均进行了胸部CT扫描。
Notably, the paper showed that all 24 cases were admitted with a chest CT scan.
其中12例（50.0％）表现出典型的新冠肺炎胸部CT图像，即显示肺部有毛玻璃或斑块状阴影。
Of these, 12 (50.0%) showed a typical CT image of the chest with Newly Coronary Pneumonia, showing a hairy glass or plaque-like shadow in the lungs.
5例（20.8％）在肺部出现条纹阴影，这是一种非典型的图像。
Five cases (20.8%) showed streak shadows in the lungs, an atypical image.
其余7例（29.2％）的CT扫描结果则均为正常。
CT scans were normal in the remaining 7 cases (29.2%).
由此，研究团队发现，即使在住院期间，年轻的病例（<15岁）也更容易成为无症状患者，并且CT图像正常。
As a result, the team found that even when hospitalized, young patients (& lt; 15) were more likely to be asymptomatic, and that CT images were normal.
这个结果表明，核酸检测对于识别年轻的密切接触者的无症状感染至关重要。
The results suggest that nucleic acid testing is essential for identifying asymptomatic infections in young, close contacts.
研究结果显示，截至2020年2月18日，共有18例（75.0％）患者的病毒被清除（2次核酸检测连续阴性），其中9例已出院，其余9例留在医院以进一步观察。
The results showed that, as of 18 February 2020, a total of 18 cases (75.0 per cent) had been cleared of the virus (2 consecutive negative nucleic acid tests), of which 9 had been discharged and the remaining 9 remained in the hospital for further observation.
但有6个病例的核酸检测结果显示为阴性后，反转为阳性。
But in six cases, negative nucleic acid tests turned positive.
研究团队在论文中将传染期定义为：从患者核酸检测阳性的第一天到连续阴性的间隔期，以此研究得出传染期范围为1到21天（中位数：9.5天，IQR为3.5-13.0天）。
In their paper, the team defined the period of infection as the interval between the first day a patient tested positive for nucleic acid and the continuous negative, resulting in a period of infection ranging from 1 to 21 days (median: 9.5 days, IQR: 3.5-13.0 days).
但特别值得关注的是，即使在核酸测试连续两次阴性之后，仍有一个病例的检测结果再次显示阳性。
It is of particular concern, however, that even after two consecutive negative nucleic acid tests, one case was tested positive again.
这表明传染期可能长达29天（从2020年1月21日至2月18日）。
This suggests a period of up to 29 days (from 21 January to 18 February 2020).
此外，论文指出，由于其中6个病例没有检查数据，且患者确切的首次感染日期不确定，因此上述传染期可能被低估了，实际传染期要比计算的更长。
In addition, the paper noted that the above-mentioned period of infection may have been underestimated and the actual period of infection was longer than calculated, due to the lack of examination data in six of these cases and uncertainty about the exact date of the patient's first infection.
更为特殊的是，24个接受调查的病例中，其中有一例病例系一起家庭传播案例的最初传染者，这为无症状新冠病毒携带者仍具有传染性提供了证据。
More specifically, one of the 24 cases investigated was the first to infect a case of family transmission, which provides evidence that asymptomatic new crown virus carriers are still infectious.
论文介绍，流行病学调查中，该病例表示他于2020年1月19日至1月20日曾前往湖北省黄冈市，但在其确诊住院前，没有显示出任何症状。
According to the paper, the epidemiological investigation indicated that he had travelled to Huanggang City, Hubei Province, from 19 January to 20 January 2020, but that he did not show any symptoms until he was diagnosed as hospitalized.
而其妻子却于2020年1月30日出现了高烧等症状、在去往医院后被确诊感染新冠肺炎，后被送入ICU救治，此后，其儿子和儿媳妇被隔离排查，同样也被确诊。
His son and daughter-in-law were also diagnosed with isolation after his wife developed symptoms such as a high fever on 30 January 2020, was diagnosed with pneumonia after going to hospital and was subsequently admitted to the ICU for treatment.
据悉，三个被感染的家属均为南京本地居民，他们在最近14天内，除了接触该病例以外，没有与任何确诊或疑似患者的接触史。
The three infected family members, all residents of Nanjing, had no history of contact with any confirmed or suspected patient in the past 14 days, apart from contact with the case.
对此，研究团队强调，多重核酸筛查、严格监测近距离接触者，对遏制疫情的潜在暴发具有重要的公共卫生意义。
In this regard, the team stressed that multiple nucleic acid screening and the rigorous monitoring of close contacts were important public health implications for containing potential outbreaks.
该项研究还建议，应对已出院的新冠肺炎患者进行隔离和多次病毒核酸检测。
The study also recommends isolation and multiple viral nucleic acid testing for patients discharged from the hospital.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
无症状感染者是否会传染？研究显示传染期最长或超29天。
Does asymptomatic infection infect? Studies show that the longest period of infection or more than 29 days.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "无症状感染者是否会传染？研究显示传染期最长或超29天";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Did asymptomatic infections occur? Studies show that AT & # 39; s longest or last at least 29 days;;
var msg_desc = "我国辽宁、浙江、山东等多个省份都发现了无症状感染者，且部分地区甚至还出现了疑似无症状感染者成为传播源的案例。
var msg _ desc = & quot; asymptomatic infections have been found in many provinces, including Liaoning, Zhejiang and Shandong, and in some areas suspected asymptomatic infection has been a source of transmission.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
