美国修改检测标准，提醒民众备足物资。
The United States has revised testing standards to remind people to stock up.
肖恩。
Sean.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：Wikimedia Commons记者：肖恩“ 有专家认为，检测人数少是美国目前确诊病例不多的原因。
Source: Wikimedia Commons: Sean, "Some experts believe the low number of tests is responsible for the low number of confirmed cases in the United States.
”疑似首例新冠肺炎社区传播病例让美国提高了警惕，疾病控制与预防中心（CDC）也为此修改检测标准。
The suspected first case of community transmission of Newcrown Pneumonia has alerted the United States, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has revised its test criteria to do so.
但从1月21日确诊首例病例至今，美国的防疫工作遭遇诸多质疑。
But since the first case was confirmed on January 21, the U. S. has faced a lot of questions about vaccination.
CDC主任雷德菲尔德（Robert Redfield）27日表示，已经发布新版新冠病毒检测指导方针。
CDC Director Robert Redfield said on the 27th that he had issued new guidelines for testing the new crown virus.
按照新标准，如果患者出现发烧和严重的下呼吸道感染症状，并排除了流感和其他呼吸道疾病的可能，即便没有相关接触史也能进行检测。
According to the new standard, patients with fever and severe symptoms of lower respiratory infections who rule out influenza and other respiratory diseases can be tested even without a history of associated exposure.
而根据此前的检测标准，接受检测的患者除了出现症状，还需要有中国旅行史或与确诊患者密切接触史。
According to the previous test criteria, in addition to symptoms, patients will need to have a history of travel to China or close contact with a confirmed patient.
图片来源：CDC官网截图正因为如此，美国首例疑似社区传播病例检测时间被推迟了四天。
Source: CDC Web screenshot. Because of this, the first suspected case of community transmission in the United States has been delayed by four days.
2月26日，一名来自加州索拉诺县的女性确诊感染，但感染路径不明，可能是美国首例社区传播病例。
On February 26, a woman from Solano County, Calif., was diagnosed with the infection on an unknown route, possibly the first case of community transmission in the United States.
该患者在2月19日就诊时就出现了新冠肺炎症状，当时医生要求对其进行病毒检测，却因为她不符合检测标准被搁置。
She developed symptoms of pneumonia on February 19, when doctors asked to be tested for the virus, but was put on hold because she did not meet the test criteria.
直到23日，在医生的坚持下，CDC才对该患者进行检测，并于26日确认检测结果呈阳性。
Only on the 23rd, at the insistence of the doctor, the CDC tested the patient and confirmed the test results were positive on the 26th.
这时距离患者入院治疗已经过了整整一周。
A full week had elapsed since the patient had been admitted to hospital.
但CDC表示，他们直到23日才收到报告要求对该患者样本进行检测，正在对事件进行调查。
But the CDC said it did not receive a report until 23 to test the patient's sample and was investigating the incident.
CDC也承认，按照新版的检测标准，患者确诊的时间可能会提前。
The CDC also acknowledges that patients may be diagnosed earlier than expected under the new testing standards.
患者正在萨克拉门托县的加州大学戴维斯分校医学中心接受治疗。
The patient is being treated at the University of California Davis Medical Center in Sacramento County.
加州议员加拉门迪（John Garamendi）对有线电视新闻网（CNN）透露，患者病情严重，已经采取气管插管治疗。
California Congressman John Garamendi told CNN that the patient was seriously ill and had been treated with tracheal intubation.
患者的家人以及与其有过密切接触的工作人员都接受了检测，正在居家隔离中。
The family and the staff with whom the patient had close contact were tested and were being kept in isolation.
加州大学戴维斯分校的一名学生也因为有接触病毒的风险，已经接受核酸检测，正居家隔离。
A student at the University of California, Davis, also at risk of exposure, has been tested for nucleic acid and is being quarantined.
加州优洛县卫生官员表示，因为该学生的鼻拭子和咽拭子样本要送到亚特兰大的疾控中心检测，近几天内不会有结果。
Health officials in Yuluo County, Calif., said the student's nose swab and swabbing sample would be sent to the CDC in Atlanta for testing.
他的两名室友也在学校隔离中，未出现症状。
Two of his roommates were also quarantined at school and showed no symptoms.
该校医学中心并不在校园内，两地相距约27公里。
The school's medical center is not on campus, about 27 kilometers from each other.
暂不清楚该学生是否与上述确诊患者有接触。
It is unclear whether the student was in contact with the above confirmed patient.
此外，CDC还将伊朗、意大利、韩国和日本都纳入重点关注国家。
In addition, the CDC has included Iran, Italy, South Korea, and Japan among the focus countries.
从上述国家入境的旅客都需要在机场接受健康检查。
Passengers arriving from the above-mentioned countries are required to undergo a medical examination at the airport.
核酸检测试剂盒的供应也是影响检测效率的一个重要因素。
The availability of nucleic acid detection kits is also an important factor affecting detection efficiency.
据美联社报道，CDC在上个月就宣布研发出试剂盒，并在本月初获得授权，将试剂盒分发至50个州的公共卫生实验室。
The CDC announced last month that it had developed a kit, and earlier this month was authorized to distribute it to public health labs in 50 states, AP reported.
但CDC在26日承认，其中大部分试剂盒存在缺陷，检测结果不准确。
But the CDC admitted on the 26th that most of the kits were defective and the test results were inaccurate.
CDC表示，将努力研制新版试剂盒，但具体面世时间还不清楚。
The CDC said it would work to develop a new version of the kit, but the timing was unclear.
至本周初，美国仅有六个州的实验室获得了有效的试剂盒。
By the beginning of the week, only six U. S. state laboratories had access to a valid kit.
加州州长纽森（Gavin Newsom）27日称，该州目前约有8400人正在接受医学观察，但试剂盒仅有200个。
California Governor Gavin Newsom said Thursday that about 8,400 people are now under medical observation in the state, but only 200 kits are available.
新冠病毒检测通常分三步，其中出现问题的是第三步，因此目前有40个实验室得到联邦食品药品监督管理局（FDA）授权，利用现有试剂盒的前两步检测结果做出诊断。
New crown virus detection usually involves three steps, the third of which is problematic, so 40 laboratories are currently authorized by the Federal Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to use the first two steps of the existing kit for diagnosis.
另外，所有检测样本都需要送至联邦检测中心，进一步拖长了确诊时间。
In addition, all test samples need to be sent to federal testing centres, further prolonging the diagnosis.
美国卫生与公众服务部（HHS）部长阿扎尔（Alex Azar）表示，到本周末，全国具备检测能力的实验室预计将增加到93个，同时有70个企业正竞相研发“临床诊断”检测技术。
Alex Azar, secretary of the US Department of Health and Human Services, said the number of laboratories with testing capacity was expected to increase to 93 by the end of the week, while 70 companies were competing to develop "clinical diagnostic" testing.
阿扎尔27日表示，美国全国仅有约3600人接受了检测。
Azar 27 said the United States only about 3,600 people were tested.
有专家认为，检测人数少或许就是美国目前确诊病例不多的原因。
Some experts believe that the low number of tests may be responsible for the low number of confirmed cases in the United States.
尽管首例传播源未明的病例让美国上下紧张起来，但前一天在白宫新闻发布会上多次强调新冠肺炎不过就像流感的总统特朗普，依然表现出高度乐观的态度。
Although the first case of unexplained transmission has raised tensions in the United States, President Trump, who repeatedly stressed pneumonia at a White House press conference the day before, remains highly optimistic, as did President Trump, who is suffering from the flu.
他27日在活动上再次表示，美国在抗击新冠疫情方面做得很好，总有一天这种病毒会奇迹般消失。
The United States has done a good job of fighting the new crown, and one day the virus will miraculously disappear, he told the event.
高盛分析师发出了警告，若股市因新型冠状病毒而继续下跌，特朗普或将输掉今年的大选。
Goldman Sachs analysts have warned that Trump could lose this year's election if the stock market continues to fall on the new coronavirus.
此外，有两名官员对路透社透露，特朗普政府考虑动用《国防生产法案》中的特殊权力，迅速扩大口罩、手套和防护服等防护用品生产。
Moreover, two officials told Reuters that the Trump administration was considering using its special powers under the Defense Production Act to rapidly expand the production of protective equipment, including masks, gloves, and protective clothing.
法律规定，总统有权因国家安全等原因，调整扩大有需求的关键原料和产品生产。
The law gives the President the right to adjust and expand the production of key raw materials and products in need for reasons such as national security.
3M和霍尼韦尔两家全球主要口罩制造商均是美国企业。
Both 3M and Honeywell, the world's two major mask makers, are American companies.
阿扎尔此前表示，美国N95口罩的需求量约为3亿只，但目前符合标准的库存仅有1200万只，还有500万只因为过期等原因，未能得到国家职业安全卫生研究所 （NIOSH）认证。
Mr. Azar has said demand for N95 masks in the U.S. is about 300 million, but only 12 million are up to standard and another 5 million have failed to be certified by the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), for reasons such as expiry.
受到总统肯定的防疫工作似乎也不那么尽如人意。
The vaccination campaign, which the president has confirmed, also seems less than satisfactory.
一名来自HHS的女性 爆料人称，十多名参与接收撤离武汉人员的人员在工作过程中缺乏应有的培训和防护措施。
A female explosive from the HHS said more than a dozen people involved in the evacuation of Wuhan personnel in the course of their work due to a lack of training and protective measures.
爆料中称，这些工作人员都没有出现疑似感染症状，也未接受隔离或新冠病毒检测。
None of the workers showed signs of suspected infection, nor were they quarantined or tested for the new crown virus, the sources said.
这名“吹哨人”还表示，自己在提出这一担忧后被无故强迫调换岗位，正寻求保护。
The whistleblower also said he had been forced to change his post without cause after raising the concern and was seeking protection.
据《华盛顿邮报》报道，这批工作人员来自卫生与公众服务部下属的儿童和家庭管理局（ACF）。
According to The Washington Post, the staff came from the Child and Family Administration (ACF), part of the Department of Health and Human Services.
有知情人士称，未对工作人员进行新冠病毒检测是因为他们没有达到检测标准。
People familiar with the matter said staff were not tested for the virus because they did not meet the test criteria.
前CDC主任弗里登（Thomas R. Frieden）拒绝对该爆料作出评论，但他多次强调，新冠病毒将在美国境内更大规模传播。
Thomas R. Frieden, a former CDC director, declined to comment on the release, but repeatedly stressed that the virus would spread more widely within the United States.
弗里登认为，新冠肺炎必将演变成全球“大流行病”，但有多严重还未可知。
Frieden thinks the new crown pneumonia is set to become a global "pandemic," but how serious it is is unclear.
美国国土安全部在备灾网站上呼吁民众做好防疫准备，包括囤好两周的食物和水、定期检查家中常备的常规处方药和非处方药等。
On its disaster preparedness Web site, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security is calling for people to be prepared, including two weeks of food and water, regular check-ups of regular prescription drugs and over-the-counter medicines at home.
截至目前美国共有确诊病例60例，其中3例是近期从武汉撤离的美国人，另外有42例是“钻石公主”号邮轮乘客，14例本人或密切接触者有中国旅行史，1例感染路径未明。
So far, 60 cases have been confirmed in the United States, three of which were recently evacuated from Wuhan, 42 were passengers of the Princess Diamond cruise ship, 14 had a history of travel to China in person or in close contact, and one case had an unknown route of infection.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
美国修改检测标准，提醒民众备足物资。
The United States has revised testing standards to remind people to stock up.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "美国修改检测标准，提醒民众备足物资";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; The United States has revised its test criteria to remind its people of RTE & quot;;
var msg_desc = "有专家认为，检测人数少是美国目前确诊病例不多的原因。
var msg _ desc = & quot; some experts believe that the low number of tests is responsible for the low number of confirmed cases in the United States.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
