从天主教、伊斯兰教到摩门教，多国宗教活动“百年一遇停摆”。
From Catholicism to Islam to Mormons, multi-national religious activities "once in a century stop."
田思奇。
Tennessee.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
麦加大清真寺 图片来源：WikiCommons记者：田思奇“ “我们请求真主使全人类免受一切伤害。
Source: WikiCommons: Tennessee "We ask Allah to free all mankind from all harm.
””沙特阿拉伯在周四（2月27日）宣布暂停允许外国朝圣者进入伊斯兰教圣地麦加朝觐。
"Saudi Arabia announced Thursday a moratorium on allowing foreign pilgrims to make the pilgrimage to the Islamic holy site of Mecca.
今年7月一年一度的麦加朝圣也可能受到影响。
The annual pilgrimage to Mecca in July may also be affected.
美联社指出，这一史无前例的禁令在1918年大流感时期也没有出现。
The Associated Press said the unprecedented ban did not occur during the 1918 pandemic.
此外，沙特还将禁止游客参观穆罕默德的墓地——位于圣地麦地那的先知清真寺，并暂停了来自受疫情影响国家的旅游签证持有者入境。
Moreover, the Saudis will bar visitors from Muhammad's cemetery, the Prophet's Mosque in Medina, and suspend the entry of tourist visa holders from affected countries.
沙特外交部在声明中表示：“我们请求真主使全人类免受一切伤害。
In its statement, the Saudi Ministry of Foreign Affairs stated: "We ask Allah to spare all humanity from all harm.
”截至目前，沙特国内尚无新冠肺炎确诊病例。
So far, there have been no confirmed cases of pneumonia in Saudi Arabia.
中东地区共有近400例确诊，疫情最严重的是伊朗，已确诊270例，包括副总统玛苏梅·埃卜特卡尔。
There were nearly 400 confirmed cases in the Middle East, the most serious in Iran, with 270 confirmed cases, including Vice-President Massoume Ebtekar.
其中伊朗大多数病例与什叶派圣城库姆相关。
Most of these cases are related to the Shiite holy city of Qom.
伊朗卫生部官员呼吁暂停库姆市所有宗教集会活动。
Iranian Health Ministry officials have called for the suspension of all religious gatherings in Qom.
当地原定于3月初举行的重要宗教节日活动已经取消。
A major local religious festival scheduled for early March has been cancelled.
但当地法蒂玛·玛苏麦陵墓的管理者阿亚图拉·穆罕默德·赛迪认为应该继续开放：“我们认为这座圣殿是疗愈的地方，应该鼓励人们来这里，”他对伊朗新闻网站Jamaran说。
But Ayatollah Mohammad al-Saidi, the local manager of the Fatima Massouma mausoleum, said the shrine should remain open: "We think this temple is a healing place and people should be encouraged to come here," he told Jamaran, an Iranian news website.
“当然，我们认为需要谨慎行事，遵循卫生管理。
"Of course, we think we need to be careful and follow health regulations.
”在确诊人数已突破2000的韩国，据韩联社2月26日报道，当地天主教会16个教区已全部暂停弥撒。
In South Korea, where more than 2,000 people have been confirmed, 16 parishes of the Catholic Church have suspended mass services.
这在韩国天主教会236年历史上尚属首次。
This is the first time in the 236-year history of the Catholic Church.
2月19日韩国出现大批确诊病例后，大邱大教区最先停止弥散，之后一周内所有教区都停止了弥撒。
After a large number of confirmed cases in South Korea on February 19, the Diocese of Daegu was the first to stop spreading, and all parishes stopped mass within a week.
疫情暴发初期，韩国大多数病例都与大邱新天地教会有关。
At the beginning of the outbreak, most cases in South Korea were related to Taegu Xintiandi Church.
目前新天地教会已宣布关闭大邱教堂，并禁止信众访问教会在全国12个分部的74座教堂，敦促信众改在家中和线上进行礼拜。
The Church of Saintiandi has now announced the closure of Taegu Church and has banned people from visiting 74 churches in 12 branches across the country, urging believers to worship at home and online.
在被意大利罗马环绕的梵蒂冈，83岁的教皇方济各身体“有点不舒服”，因而取消了周四原本与罗马神职人员共同出席的弥撒。
At the Vatican, surrounded by Italy and Rome, Pope Francis, 83, was "a little sick" and cancelled a mass he had attended with the Roman clergy on Thursday.
2月26日“圣灰星期三”的弥撒中，照片显示教皇出现咳嗽和擤鼻子的动作。
Pictures show the pope coughing and blowing his nose at Mass on Feb. 26, the Ash Wednesday.
周三早些时候的一场活动中，方济各还特意与前排的信徒们握了手，并在教皇专车驶过圣彼得广场时亲吻了一个婴儿，还在最后向到访的主教们致意。
At an event earlier Wednesday, Francis shook hands with the faithful in the front row and kissed a baby as the Pope drove past St. Peter's Square, saluting visiting bishops at the end.
然而，主教们似乎并没有像往常一样亲吻他的戒指或拥抱他。
However, the bishops did not seem to kiss his ring or hug him as usual.
梵蒂冈官员拒绝评论教皇方济各是否接受了冠状病毒检测。
Vatican officials declined to comment on whether Pope Francis had been tested for coronavirus.
教皇在年轻时因为肺结核切除了一只肺的一部分，目前除了腿部疼痛需定期治疗外，身体状况良好。
The pope, who had a lung amputated as a young man because of tuberculosis, is in good health except for leg pain, which requires regular treatment.
截至目前，意大利是欧洲疫情最严重的国家，共有655人病毒检测呈阳性，不过病例大都出现在意大利北部。
Italy is by far the worst-affected country in Europe, with 655 people tested positive for the virus, although most cases are in northern Italy.
首都罗马确诊3个病例，现已痊愈出院。
Three cases were confirmed in the capital, Rome, and have since been discharged.
在美国，耶稣基督后期圣徒教会（俗称摩门教）也在2月27日宣布因疫情推迟4月举行的全球领袖会议，并表示不鼓励居住在美国以外的成员在4月初来到总部所在的犹他州参加大规模教会活动。
In the United States, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints (commonly known as Mormons) also announced on 27 February that it had postponed the April meeting of global leaders because of the outbreak, and expressed its disincentive for members living outside the United States to come to the headquarters in Utah in early April to participate in large-scale church activities.
据美联社介绍，摩门教共有1600万成员，其中一半以上住在美国以外。
Of the 16 million Mormons, more than half live outside the United States, AP said.
摩门教在声明中表示，在各国政府和卫生组织发出警告后便作出推迟会议和不鼓励国际来往的决定。
In its statement, the Mormons stated that the decision to postpone meetings and discourage international traffic was taken following warnings from Governments and WHO.
教会已经暂停部分亚洲国家和地区的礼拜活动。
The church has suspended worship in some Asian countries and regions.
“我们希望成为良好的全球公民，尽我们所能限制这种疾病的传播，”该教会表示。
"We want to be good global citizens and do what we can to limit the spread of the disease," the church said.
“我们也希望在这个时候缓解我们的领袖、成员和他们的家人对旅行不确定性的担忧。
"We also want this time to allay the fears of our leaders, members and their families about the uncertainty of travel.
”未经授权 禁止转载。
No reproduction is permitted without authorization.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
从天主教、伊斯兰教到摩门教，多国宗教活动“百年一遇停摆”。
From Catholicism to Islam to Mormons, multi-national religious activities "once in a century stop."
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "从天主教、伊斯兰教到摩门教，多国宗教活动“百年一遇停摆”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; once in a century, from Catholicism and Islam to Mormons.
var msg_desc = "“我们请求真主使全人类免受一切伤害。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "We ask Allah to spare all humanity from all harm.
”";。
";;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
