当伊朗遭遇新冠疫情：制裁下的“被动佛系”。
When Iran encounters the New Crown Epidemic: "Passive Buddhism" under sanctions.
界面地球姨。
Auntie Earth.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：Twitter记者：安晶“ 伊朗是伊拉克、叙利亚、阿富汗、阿塞拜疆、亚美尼亚等国民众的医疗旅游热门地。
Source: Twitter: "Iran is a popular tourist destination for people from Iraq, Syria, Afghanistan, Azerbaijan and Armenia.
”累计确诊270例、接近10%的病死率，副总统、卫生部副部长等高官纷纷确诊感染……与其在中东政治中扮演的角色如出一辙，在此次新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情中，伊朗再次成为地区风暴眼。
With 270 cases diagnosed and a fatality rate close to 10%, senior officials, including the Vice-President and the Deputy Minister of Health, have been diagnosed with infection... Iran has again become a regional storm in the wake of the new coronavirus pneumonia, much like its role in Middle East politics.
伊朗对周边国家的影响力也不合时宜地从疫情扩散上体现出来：伊拉克、黎巴嫩、阿富汗、巴林、科威特的确诊病例都曾前往伊朗。
Iran's influence on neighboring countries is also reflected inappropriately in the spread of the epidemic: confirmed cases in Iraq, Lebanon, Afghanistan, Bahrain, and Kuwait have gone to Iran.
世界卫生组织在对突增病例国家表示担忧之时特别点名了伊朗。
The World Health Organization singled out Iran at a time of concern about countries with sudden cases.
为协助伊朗控制疫情，世卫组织的一个小组将于周末前往伊朗。
To help Iran contain the outbreak, a WHO team will travel to Iran over the weekend.
然而，与周边国家相比，伊朗的医疗卫生系统可称得上“高配”：建立了分级医疗体系，初级卫生保健系统能覆盖95%的农村人口、被联合国儿童基金会评为“优秀”。
Iran's health-care system, however, compares favorably with that of its neighbors: a tiered health-care system that covers 95% of the rural population and is rated "excellent" by UNICEF.
连在伊朗寻求避难的部分阿富汗和伊拉克难民也能享受医疗保险。
Even some Afghan and Iraqi refugees who have sought refuge in Iran are eligible for health insurance.
在整个中东，伊朗也是热门的医疗旅游目的地。
Across the Middle East, Iran is also a popular medical tourist destination.
由于低廉的价格和较先进的医疗技术，仅去年3月到7月，就有约60万游客前往伊朗接受治疗或整容手术。
Thanks to low prices and more advanced medical technology, between March and July last year alone, some 600,000 tourists went to Iran for treatment or cosmetic surgery.
尽管如此，美国重启制裁对伊朗医疗系统的打击也是明显的。
Nonetheless, the impact of renewed US sanctions on Iran's health-care system is clear.
虽然伊朗国内使用的药品有97%均为本土生产，但其中三分之一的原料来自进口；大部分医疗设备则完全依赖进口。
Although 97 per cent of the medicines used in Iran are produced locally, one third of the raw materials are imported; most medical equipment is imported entirely.
面对汹涌的新冠疫情，伊朗医疗设备进口商联盟的官员坦言，美国的制裁已经影响了新冠病毒检测试剂盒的进口。
In the face of a surge in new outbreaks, officials at the Iran Federation of Importers of Medical Devices have admitted that U.S. sanctions have affected the import of new crown virus test kits.
德黑兰当地的华人告诉界面新闻，口罩和消毒液已经被抢购一空。
Local Chinese in Tehran told the Interface News that masks and disinfectant had been snapped up.
“不可思议的杰作”彭博新闻社定期会根据人口预期寿命、医疗服务的绝对成本、相对于平均收入的成本等指标，对各经济体的医疗服务效率进行排位。
Bloomberg News, a "masterpiece of magic," ranks economies on a regular basis in terms of life expectancy, absolute cost of health services and cost relative to average income.
在2018年的该项指数中，伊朗排第39位，人口预期寿命75.7岁。
Iran ranked 39th in the 2018 index, with a life expectancy of 75.7 years.
美国则因高昂的医疗费用排名第54位，列名单倒数第二。
The United States ranks fifty-fourth and penultimate in terms of high health-care costs.
非政府组织“核威胁倡议”、约翰霍普金斯大学健康安全中心和经济学人智库2019年发布了《全球卫生安全指数》，对195个国家的卫生安全能力进行排位。
The Global Health Security Index, published in 2019 by the non-governmental organization Nuclear Threat Initiative, the Johns Hopkins University Center for Health Safety and the Economist Intelligence Unit, ranks the health security capacity of 195 countries.
在总分上，伊朗排名第97位，高于周边的伊拉克、叙利亚、阿塞拜疆、土库曼斯坦、阿富汗和巴基斯坦。
Iran ranks 97th on the overall score, ahead of neighboring Iraq, Syria, Azerbaijan, Turkmenistan, Afghanistan and Pakistan.
而在“治疗病患和保护医疗工作者的充足稳健卫生系统”指标中，伊朗排名第62位，远高于平均分，甚至在南非、越南和卡塔尔之前。
Iran ranks 62nd, well above average, even before South Africa, Vietnam, and Qatar, in the "Sufficient and Robust Health System to Treat Patients and Protect Health Workers."
红色为准备最弱国家，土黄色为准备较好国家，浅黄色为准备最好国家。
Red for the preparation of the weakest countries, khaki for better prepared countries, light yellow for the best prepared countries.
从1979年伊斯兰革命后，伊朗就开始搭建公共卫生系统，至今已经历了四次重大改革。
Since the Islamic Revolution in 1979, Iran has built a public-health system that has undergone four major reforms.
目前，伊朗的卫生事务由伊朗卫生和医疗教育部负责管理。
Currently, Iran's health services are administered by the Iranian Ministry of Health and Medical Education.
在卫生和医疗教育部之上有两个跨部门委员会，一个负责跨部门合作和卫生事务决策，另一个负责制定医疗保险计划。
Under the Ministry of Health and Medical Education, there are two intersectoral committees, one for cross-sectoral cooperation and decision-making on health matters and the other for the development of a health insurance scheme.
图片来源：截图与很多国家不同的是，伊朗的医疗服务和教育均归卫生和医疗教育部管辖。
Photo Source: Screenshots Unlike many countries, health services and education in Iran are under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health and Medical Education.
每个省份至少设立一个医学院，医学院的院长也是当地的卫生官员，向卫生和医疗教育部汇报。
Each province has at least one medical school, the director of which is also the local health officer, reporting to the Ministry of Health and Medical Education.
目前伊朗的31个省里设有67所医学院。
There are currently 67 medical schools in 31 provinces of Iran.
在卫生和医疗教育部之下，各省医学院的董事会也就成为第二级管理层，医学院的医院则为大城市居民提供有针对性的医疗服务。
Under the Ministry of Health and Medical Education, the boards of directors of medical schools in the governorates become the second level of management, while the hospitals of medical schools provide targeted medical services to residents of large cities.
在医学院之下，为地区卫生网络。
Under the medical school, for the district health network.
地区卫生网络负责管理地区卫生中心、地区公立医院、特别诊所等机构。
Regional health networks manage district health centres, regional public hospitals, special clinics, etc.
地区卫生中心之下有农村医疗服务和城市医疗服务部门。
Rural health services and urban medical services are located under the regional health centres.
农村医疗服务的主要体现方式为医疗屋（Health House），也是农村地区患者首先就诊的地方。
The main form of rural medical services is the Health House, where patients in rural areas are first seen.
医疗屋一般配有常用药品、医疗设备、以及一男一女两名社区医务人员。
Medical houses are generally equipped with commonly used medicines, medical equipment and two community medical staff, one male and one female.
这些社区医务人员也被称为Behvarzes，接受过两年专业培训，主要从事疫苗注射、妇幼保健、基本健康检查等工作。
These community health workers, also known as Behvarzes, have two years of professional training, mainly in vaccination, maternal and child health care, basic health check-ups, etc.
到2019年，伊朗农村地区共设立了超过1.8万个医疗屋，驻有3.2万名社区医务人员，覆盖了95%的农村人口。
By 2019, there were more than 18,000 medical houses in rural Iran with 32,000 community health workers, covering 95 per cent of the rural population.
遇到医疗屋无法处理的病患，工作人员会将其转至农村卫生中心，农村卫生中心无法处理则转入地区卫生中心。
In the case of patients who cannot be treated in a medical unit, staff refer them to a rural health centre or to a district health centre if the rural health centre is unable to do so.
城市中也设立了类似网络，包括医疗站（Health Post）和城市卫生中心。
Similar networks have been set up in cities, including Health Post and urban health centres.
这一系统正是伊朗一直引以为傲的初级卫生保健系统，被称为“不可思议的杰作”。
The system is Iran's prized primary health-care system, known as the "incredible masterpiece."
该系统从1985年两伊战争期间开始设立。
The system was established during the Iran-Iraq war in 1985.
除了让农村居民享受免费基本医疗之外，也帮助伊朗大大降低了新生儿和孕妇死亡率。
In addition to providing free basic health care to rural residents, it has helped Iran to significantly reduce neonatal and maternal mortality.
伊朗约有8000万人口，目前有超过74%生活在城市地区。
With a population of about 80 million, more than 74 per cent currently live in urban areas.
与农村相比，城市的初级卫生保健系统并没有取得很好的效果，患者逐级转院的机制并没有得到有效落实。
The primary health-care system in urban areas is not working as well as in rural areas, and the referral mechanism has not been effectively implemented.
但城市的医疗资源更为集中，大部分公立医院和几乎所有私立医院都位于城市地区。
However, urban health resources are more concentrated, with most public hospitals and almost all private hospitals located in urban areas.
伊朗的医疗机构主要分为三类：公立、私立和NGO。
There are three main types of medical institutions in Iran: public, private and non-governmental.
公立医院负责从初级到三级也就是医学院医院级别的医疗服务，私立机构主要负责城市地区的门诊医疗服务，NGO则针对儿童癌症、糖尿病等个别疾病提供专门服务。
Public hospitals are responsible for medical services from the primary to the tertiary level, that is, the hospital level of medical schools, private institutions are primarily responsible for outpatient medical services in urban areas, and NGOs provide specialized services for individual diseases such as childhood cancer and diabetes.
国防部、石油部、伊斯兰革命卫队、提供社保服务的社会保障组织（SSO）等部门和机构还有自己的下属医院。
Departments and agencies such as the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Oil, the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps and the Social Security Organization (SSO), which provide social security services, also have their own hospitals.
到2018年，伊朗共有1117所医院、13万个床位、40万名医务人员。
By 2018, there were 1,117 hospitals with 130,000 beds and 400,000 medical personnel in Iran.
其中80%的床位都为公立医院所有。
Eighty per cent of these beds are owned by public hospitals.
在医疗保险上，直到1994年，伊朗有超过60%人口都没有任何医疗保险。
On health insurance, until 1994, more than 60% of Iran's population had no health insurance.
但如今，不同职业背景的民众都有不同的医保系统。
Today, however, people of different professional backgrounds have different health-care systems.
独立运行的社会保障组织（SSO）是最常用的系统，主要分为养老金和医保两部分，目前伊朗有52%的人口从社会保障组织中受益。
The most commonly used system is the Independent Social Security Organization (SSO), which is divided into two main categories, pension and health care, with 52 per cent of the Iranian population currently benefiting from social security organizations.
社会保障组织的医保系统主要针对非政府部门雇员、自由职业者等就业人群及其家属，保费由雇员、雇主和政府共同分摊。
The Social Security Organization's health-care system caters mainly to employees in the non-governmental sector, the self-employed and their families, with contributions shared by employees, employers and the Government.
参保人在社会保障组织下属的医疗机构就诊时享受免费医疗，其他医院和诊所为部分报销。
The insured persons receive free medical care at the medical institutions affiliated to the Social Security Organization, while other hospitals and clinics are partially reimbursed.
最高时，公立医院的住院费能报销85%到90%。
At the highest level, hospital fees in public hospitals can be reimbursed at 85 to 90 per cent.
政府工作人员和学生、军人及家属、农村居民则分别有不同的医保计划。
There are different health insurance schemes for government workers and students, military personnel and their families, and rural residents.
2014年，总统鲁哈尼推出“鲁哈尼医保计划”以覆盖没有参加任何医保的居民。
In 2014, President Hassan Rouhani introduced the Rouhani Medicare program to cover residents who are not covered by any health insurance.
到2017年，该计划覆盖了近1100万人。
By 2017, nearly 11 million people would be covered by the programme.
虽然覆盖面有所扩大，但伊朗的医保计划也因其繁复和政府投入不均遭到了诟病。
While coverage has expanded, Iran's health-care plan has been criticized for its complexity and uneven government spending.
世界银行的数据显示，伊朗2016年的卫生总费用为360亿美元，占到当年GDP的8.1%。
According to the World Bank, Iran's total health expenditure in 2016 was $36 billion, or 8.1% of GDP for that year.
经济更发达的日本为10.93%、以色列为7.31%、沙特阿拉伯为5.74%，阿联酋仅为3.52%。
The economically more developed countries of Japan are 10.93 per cent, Israel 7.31 per cent, Saudi Arabia 5.74 per cent and the United Arab Emirates only 3.52 per cent.
伊朗卫生总费用占GDP比重较高，尽管其中大部分为政府预算和医保资金，但自付费用（out-of-pocket）依然占到了35.5%。
Iran's total health-care costs are high, with 35.5% of total out-of-pocket spending, despite the fact that most of it is financed from the government budget and health care.
医疗旅游热门地在医学研究和创新领域，美国康奈尔大学、欧洲工商管理学院和世界知识产权组织发表的《2019年全球创新指数：创造健康生活——医学创新的未来》报告显示，伊朗在近130个经济体中排名第61位，高于沙特和卡塔尔。
Medical tourism is hotly in the field of medical research and innovation, with Iran ranked 61st out of nearly 130 economies, higher than Saudi Arabia and Qatar, according to the 2019 Global Innovation Index: Creating Healthy Lives - The Future of Medical Innovation, published by Cornell University, the European Business Administration Institute and the World Intellectual Property Organization.
从1979年开始，伊朗就采取了以仿制药为基础的国家药物政策。
Since 1979, Iran has adopted a national drug policy based on generic medicines.
到2018年，伊朗国内使用的97%药品均为本土制造，医药市场价值约45亿美元。
By 2018, 97 per cent of the medicines used in Iran were indigenously manufactured, with a market value of about $4.5 billion.
目前伊朗有186家本土制药公司和232家药品进口公司。
There are currently 186 indigenous pharmaceutical companies and 232 pharmaceutical importing companies in Iran.
在购买药品时，高达92%的民众都使用医保购药。
Up to 92% of the population uses Medicare when it comes to buying medicines.
为控制药品价格，政府对多种药品生产和进口实施了补贴政策。
To control the price of medicines, the Government has introduced subsidies for the production and import of a variety of medicines.
到2017年，伊朗男性的预期寿命已经从1984年的67.7岁上升到75.47岁，女性则从71岁上升到79.36岁。
By 2017, life expectancy for Iranian men had risen from 67.7 years in 1984 to 75.47 years, and for women from 71 to 79.36 years.
由于拥有更好的医疗条件和医疗技术，伊朗成为了伊拉克、叙利亚、阿富汗、阿塞拜疆、亚美尼亚等国民众的医疗旅游热门地。
With better medical care and technology, Iran has become a popular tourist destination for people in Iraq, Syria, Afghanistan, Azerbaijan, and Armenia.
游客通常前往伊朗进行整容手术、心脏手术、骨科手术、不孕不育治疗等。
Visitors usually travel to Iran for cosmetic surgery, heart surgery, orthopaedic surgery, infertility treatment, etc.
医疗旅游也随之成为了伊朗的新兴产业之一。
Medical tourism has also become one of Iran's emerging industries.
目前伊朗有400多家医院在参与医疗旅游，其中170家获得许可专门建立了国际患者区。
More than 400 hospitals are currently involved in medical tourism in Iran, 170 of which have been licensed to establish international patient zones.
为方便其他国家的医疗游客前往，伊朗与周边13个国家签订了合作协议。
To facilitate the travel of medical tourists from other countries, Iran has signed cooperation agreements with 13 neighbouring countries.
除此之外，伊朗国内还设立了众多私人旅游公司，专门安排前往伊朗的医疗旅游。
In addition, a number of private tourism companies have been set up in the country specifically to arrange medical tours to Iran.
美国重启制裁虽然给伊朗经济造成了重击，但同时也给伊朗的医疗旅游送去了更多商机。
The resumption of US sanctions, while dealing a severe blow to the Iranian economy, has also brought more business opportunities to Iran's medical tourism industry.
正是因为制裁引发的伊朗里亚尔贬值，去年3月到7月的四个月里，伊朗吸引了60多万名医疗游客，与过去一年的医疗游客人数相当。
It was the depreciation of the Iranian rial caused by the sanctions that attracted more than 600,000 medical visitors in the four months from March to July last year, a figure comparable to the number of medical visitors over the past year.
根据伊朗医疗旅游公司AriaMedTour的介绍，伊朗的骨科手术技术排名全球前十，而膝关节置换手术平均仅需2800美元。
Iran ranks among the top 10 countries in orthopaedic surgery, while knee arthroplasty costs an average of $2,800, according to Aria MedTour, an Iranian medical tourism company.
在南非，膝关节置换手术需花费1.3万到1.5万美元。
In South Africa, knee arthroplasty costs between $13,000 and $15,000.
伊朗当局估算，每名医疗游客在伊朗花费3600到7600美元不等。
Iranian authorities estimate that each medical visitor spends between $3,600 and $7,600 in Iran.
2018年，医疗旅游业获得了12亿美元的收入。
In 2018, medical tourism generated $1.2 billion in revenue.
按照伊朗的第六个经济发展计划（2017-2022），政府计划每年能吸引50万到60万名医疗游客。
Under Iran's sixth economic development plan (2017-2022), the government plans to attract between 500,000 and 600,000 medical tourists a year.
制裁下的捉襟见肘虽然有着该地区的顶配设置，但早在伊核协议达成之前，常年的国际制裁就已经对伊朗的医疗系统造成了打击。
Despite the region's overhang of sanctions, years of international sanctions had hit Iran's health-care system long before the Iran nuclear deal.
2017年11月，伊朗议会成员向鲁哈尼致信，呼吁政府在10年内偿还应支付给主要医保机构社会保障组织的欠款。
In November 2017, members of the Iranian parliament wrote to Rouhani calling on the Government to repay its arrears to the Social Security Organization, the main health-care provider, within 10 years.
加上利息，预计政府需偿还超过360亿美元。
With interest, the Government is expected to repay more than $36 billion.
同年底，伊朗遭遇了两次大规模地震。
At the end of the same year, Iran was hit by two large earthquakes.
地震之后，卫生和医疗教育部的一名官员在采访中指出，伊朗有70%的医院都修建于50年前，很多医院年久失修，急需定期维护。
After the earthquake, an official from the Ministry of Health and Medical Education said in an interview that 70 per cent of hospitals in Iran were built 50 years ago and many are in poor repair and in urgent need of regular maintenance.
在此次新冠疫情中确诊感染的伊朗卫生部副部长哈里奇（ Iraj Harirchi）也曾于去年8月在《柳叶刀》发文，指出在伊核协议签订前，伊朗已经有近600万名非传染性疾病患者因国际制裁而无法获得所需的治疗。
Iraj Harrirchi, Iran's deputy health minister, who was diagnosed with infection in the new crown, also wrote in The Lancet last August, pointing out that, before the Iran nuclear agreement, nearly six million people with non-communicable diseases in Iran had been unable to receive the treatment they needed because of international sanctions.
美国重启制裁后，伊朗的医药和医疗设备受到了更大冲击。
Iran's medicine and medical equipment have been hit harder by the renewed U. S. sanctions.
虽然伊朗有97%药品均为本土制造，但生产药品所需的原料药有三分之一依赖进口。
While 97 per cent of medicines in Iran are indigenously manufactured, one third of the APIs required to produce medicines are imported.
治疗罕见疾病、慢性病、多种癌症、血液病等所需的基本药物完全依赖进口。
Essential medicines for the treatment of rare diseases, chronic diseases, multiple cancers, blood diseases, etc., are totally imported.
在医疗器械上，伊朗对进口的依赖更大。
Iran is more dependent on imports of medical equipment.
根据伊朗国家医疗器械管理局的统计，2018年伊朗的医疗器械市场价值25亿美元，但只有30%的器械为本国制造，其余70%全部需要进口，包括核磁共振成像仪、扫描设备、骨科器材，甚至病床在内的基本设备。
According to Iran's National Medical Devices Administration, the market for medical devices in 2018 was worth $2.5 billion, but only 30 per cent of the equipment was indigenously manufactured and the remaining 70 per cent needed to be imported, including basic equipment such as MRI machines, scanning equipment, orthopaedic equipment and even beds.
在2018年5月美国正式宣布退出伊核协议前一个月，伊朗央行就开始做准备，为伊朗公司进口政府指定的必需品提供补贴汇率。
A month before the US formally withdrew from the nuclear deal in May 2018, Iran's central bank began preparations to provide subsidized rates for Iranian companies to import government-specified necessities.
当时公布的必需品清单中包括了5000多种药品和2.2万多种医疗器械。
The list of essentials announced at the time included more than 5,000 medicines and more than 22,000 medical devices.
虽然政府有所准备，但依然有很多药品和医疗器械不在补贴之列。
Despite the Government's readiness, there are still many medicines and medical devices that are not subsidized.
以牙科为例，伊朗议会卫生委员会宣布，在伊朗使用的2000多种进口牙科产品和器械中，只有392种能享受补贴汇率。
In the case of dentistry, the Health Committee of the Iranian Parliament declared that only 392 of the more than 2,000 imported dental products and instruments in use in Iran could enjoy a subsidized exchange rate.
一名德黑兰的私人牙医在接受人权观察组织采访时指出，他所开设的医院使用的很多医疗器械都不享受汇率补贴，而随着伊朗里亚尔贬值、进口设备的成本上涨，医院将无力添置新型设备，只能使用老旧设备。
In an interview with Human Rights Watch, a private dentist in Tehran stated that many of the medical equipment used in his hospital did not benefit from exchange rate subsidies and that, as the Iranian rial depreciated and the cost of imported equipment increased, the hospital would be unable to acquire new equipment and would have to use old equipment.
虽然美国的制裁对基本药物和基本医疗设备等人道主义物资进行了豁免，但面对美国二级制裁的风险，众多国家的银行和金融机构都不愿与伊朗公司交易。
While United States sanctions exempt humanitarian goods, such as essential medicines and essential medical equipment, banks and financial institutions in many countries are reluctant to deal with Iranian companies in the face of the risk of secondary United States sanctions.
人权观察组织的报告中引用了一名英国律师的经历。
The Human Rights Watch report cites the experience of a British lawyer.
这名律师指出，只要他的客户想与伊朗公司做生意，就算涉及到药品等人道主义物资，也需要做好打官司的准备。
The lawyer pointed out that as long as his clients wanted to do business with Iranian companies, they needed to be prepared to take legal action, even if it involved humanitarian supplies such as medicines.
在交易过程中，往往是银行拒绝转账。
In the course of transactions, it is often the banks that refuse to transfer funds.
就算以起诉银行做威胁，银行最终转账，律师也需要先进入诉讼前程序。
Even if the bank is threatened with prosecution and the bank transfers, the lawyer needs to go through the pre-litigation process first.
这一程序非常耗时，有时客户会干脆选择放弃与伊朗公司交易。
This process is time-consuming, with clients sometimes opting out of dealing with Iranian companies altogether.
据欧盟委员会2019年公布的欧盟与伊朗贸易数据，2016年——也就是伊核协议达成后一年，欧盟对伊朗出口了价值9.2亿欧元的药品；到2018年，该数字下降至7.95亿欧元。
According to EU-Iran trade data released by the European Commission in 2019, the EU exported €920 million worth of medicines to Iran in 2016 - a year after the Iran nuclear agreement was reached; by 2018, that figure had fallen to €795 million.
图片来源：截图进口药品的减少除了让需要此类药品的病患更难以得到治疗，也导致了药品价格的上涨。
Source: Cuts in the number of imported drugs, in addition to making it more difficult for patients in need of them to access treatment, have also led to higher prices.
糖尿病患者萨德吉（Parviz Sadeghi）在本周接受法新社采访时描述了他在德黑兰购买胰岛素的艰难过程。
Diabetic Parviz Sadeghi, speaking to AFP this week, described his difficult process of buying insulin in Tehran.
目前失业的萨德吉患糖尿病近10年。
Sadji, now unemployed, has been suffering from diabetes for nearly a decade.
以前，他去任何药店都能买到胰岛素，但现在需要四处辗转，最后在一家药店排队数小时后才买到治疗必须的胰岛素。
He used to be able to buy insulin at any drugstore, but now he has to toss and turn and wait for hours at a drugstore before getting the insulin he needs.
据萨德吉介绍，三年前，胰岛素仅需约1.1美元，如今的价格已经翻了三倍。
Just three years ago, insulin cost about $1. 1, but now it's three times as expensive, says Dr. Sadege.
但虽然失业，萨德吉购买胰岛素的花销依然由医保全额支付。
But despite the job losses, Sadji's insulin purchases are still fully covered by Medicare.
德黑兰当地华人阿华接受界面新闻采访时表示，平时看病时已经能感受到医疗机构的捉襟见肘。
In an interview with the Interface News, Ahua, a local Chinese living in Tehran, said he was already feeling the pinch of medical institutions when he visited a doctor.
据阿华就医的体会，很多专业药品当地无法生产，从而导致所需药品不够；同时医院的设备老旧，有些专业设备甚至没有。
According to Ahua's experience, many specialized medicines cannot be produced locally, which leads to a shortage of needed medicines; at the same time, hospitals have old equipment and some do not even have specialized equipment.
随着新冠疫情的爆发，制裁对伊朗医疗设备的影响也被进一步放大。
With the outbreak of the new crown, the impact of sanctions on Iran's medical equipment has been magnified.
雪上加霜的是，2月21日，国际反洗钱金融行动特别工作组将伊朗列入了黑名单。
To make matters worse, on 21 February, the International Financial Action Task Force on Money Laundering blacklisted Iran.
列入黑名单后，与伊朗的所有交易都将面临更严格的审查。
After blacklisting, all transactions with Iran would be subject to stricter scrutiny.
伊朗医疗设备进口商联盟副主席法拉（Ramin Fallah）24日接受伊朗媒体采访时抱怨，美国的制裁以及黑名单事件已经影响到新冠病毒检测试剂盒的进口。
Ramin Fallah, vice president of Iran's Federation of Importers of Medical Equipment, complained in an interview with Iranian media on Thursday that U.S. sanctions and blacklist incidents had affected imports of test kits for testing the virus.
法拉透露，已经有多家外国公司准备将试剂盒运至伊朗，但因外国银行拒绝与伊朗公司交易，伊朗无法进行银行转账。
A number of foreign companies have been preparing to ship kits to Iran, Farah said, but Iran has been unable to make bank transfers because foreign banks have refused to deal with Iranian companies.
目前只有世卫组织绕开制裁，向伊朗运送了四船检测设备和医务人员防护设备。
At present, only WHO has bypassed the sanctions by sending four ships of testing equipment and medical protection equipment to Iran.
中国则向伊朗捐赠了25万个口罩和5000人份核酸检测试剂盒。
China has donated 250,000 masks and 5,000 nucleic acid test kits to Iran.
法拉还指出，在应对新冠疫情中最重要的医疗设备是ICU设备和呼吸机。
Farah also notes that the most important medical devices used in the response to the new crown are ICU devices and respirators.
他并未透露伊朗现有的ICU设备数量，仅表示呼吸机数量尚“充足”。
He did not disclose the number of ICU devices available in Iran, saying only that the number of respirators was "adequate."
为应对疫情做准备，他本人将前往土耳其“人肉代购”，用现金购买200万个医用口罩，再从土耳其运回伊朗。
In preparation for the outbreak, he himself will travel to Turkey to buy two million medical masks in cash and ship them back to Iran from Turkey.
“上报是最突出的问题”除了制裁对硬件造成的影响之外，伊朗虽然拥有完整的医疗系统和较好的医疗技术，但其传染病监控系统依然存在诸多问题。
"Reporting is the most prominent problem." In addition to the impact of sanctions on hardware, Iran still has many problems with its infectious-disease surveillance system, although it has a comprehensive health-care system and better medical technology.
和很多国家一样，伊朗也设立了传染病防控部门：隶属于卫生和医疗教育部的传染病控制中心（CCDC）。
Iran, like many other countries, has established an infectious disease control unit: the Infectious Diseases Control Center (CCDC) under the Ministry of Health and Medical Education.
但传染病控制中心的Abbas Norouzinejad联合多名伊朗学者于2019年7月在《伊朗医学》杂志上发表的文章指出，伊朗的传染病防控系统存在很多问题，包括发现疾病后没有及时上报、医务人员对传染性疾病了解不足、发现疾病后干预不得力等。
However, an article by Abbas Norouzinejad of the Centre for Infectious Diseases Control, published in the Iranian Journal of Medicine in July 2019, points out that Iran's infectious disease control system suffers from a number of problems, including under-reporting of diseases after their detection, insufficient knowledge of infectious diseases among medical personnel, and inadequate post-disease detection interventions.
文章指出，上报是最突出的问题之一，很多私人医疗机构的医生在发现传染性疾病后不对监管机构上报。
Reporting is one of the most prominent problems, the article said, with many private-sector doctors failing to report infectious diseases to regulators.
不上报一方面是因为缺乏激励机制，另一方面则是因为很多私人医疗机构并不了解上报系统。
The failure to report is partly due to a lack of incentives and partly due to the fact that many private health institutions are not aware of the reporting system.
而在政府设立的初级卫生保健网络中，部分城市和农村卫生中心依然使用人工手动登记。
In the primary health care network established by the Government, manual registration is still used in some urban and rural health centres.
在接受调查的60所城市和农村卫生中心里，用电脑记录收集处理数据的只有25%。
Only 25 per cent of the 60 urban and rural health centres surveyed collected and processed data using computerized records.
在干预措施上，由于医院为应急突发公共卫生事件预留的床位数量有限、部分一线医院缺乏专门医生、财政问题等，可进行干预的硬件条件不理想，跨部门的支持和协调也不到位。
In terms of interventions, owing to the limited number of hospital beds reserved for emergency public health emergencies, the lack of specialized doctors in some first-line hospitals, financial problems, etc., the hardware available for intervention is not ideal and cross-sectoral support and coordination is not in place.
面对有限的硬件软件条件，伊朗政府在应对新冠疫情时，一方面表示疫情不可能比流感更危险，另一方面则采取有保留的措施，包括关闭多地的学校、教育机构、电影院和展览馆，对多地公共交通消毒。
Faced with limited hardware and software conditions, the Iranian Government responded to the new crown outbreak by stating, on the one hand, that the outbreak was unlikely to be more dangerous than the influenza and, on the other, that it had taken reserved measures, including the closure of numerous schools, educational institutions, cinemas and galleries and the disinfection of multiple public transportation.
对于伊朗最初惊人的确诊病人死亡率，很多西方医学人士都推测，主要是因为症状较轻的病患没有被检测出来。
Many in the West speculate that Iran's initially alarming rate of confirmed patient deaths is largely due to patients with less severe symptoms not being detected.
一方面可能因为检测手段不足、上报不及时，还有可能是因为医疗设备老化失准。
This may be due, on the one hand, to inadequate means of detection, delays in reporting and, possibly, ageing medical equipment.
由于轻症患者没被及时检测，实际感染人数应远高于目前公布的人数。
Since patients with mild cases are not tested in time, the actual number of infections should be much higher than currently announced.
据阿华介绍，德黑兰当地民众对疫情有不同反应，街头上戴和不戴口罩的人都有。
Local people in Tehran reacted differently to the outbreak, both on the streets and among people not wearing masks, Ahua said.
有人不戴口罩继续聚会，也有人开始往其他国家跑。
Some continued to meet without masks, while others began to run to other countries.
但与疫情刚爆出时相比，这几天民众的重视度明显提高，消毒液和口罩已经被抢购一空。
But in recent days, the public has become noticeably more focused than it was when the outbreak began, with disinfectant and masks snapped up.
德黑兰各清真寺的宗教活动宣布取消，部分社区已经开始给高危人群免费发放口罩，“我自己还没收到，但楼下卖菜的收到了”。
Religious activities at Tehran's mosques have been canceled, and some communities have begun distributing free masks to high-risk groups. "I haven't received them myself, but the seller downstairs has received them."
军方工厂生产口罩。
Military factories manufacture masks.
图片来源：Twitter上周六，伊朗卫生和医疗教育部宣布将向政府医疗机构免费发放口罩和消毒液。
Source: Twitter On Saturday, Iran's Ministry of Health and Medical Education announced it would distribute masks and disinfectant free of charge to government medical institutions.
在疫情爆发点什叶派圣城库姆，当局将挨家挨户发放口罩和消毒液。
In the Shiite holy city of Qom, where the outbreak erupted, authorities will hand out masks and disinfectant door to door.
卫生和医疗教育部要求全国所有口罩生产商将每日生产口罩的至少50%上交给卫生部，以换取现金。
The Ministry of Health and Medical Education requires all mask manufacturers nationwide to hand over at least 50 per cent of their daily mask production to the Ministry of Health in exchange for cash.
伊朗工业、矿业和贸易部部长拉哈玛尼（Reza Rahmani）宣布，全国13家主要口罩厂商将24小时开工，每天能生产约200万只口罩。
Reza Rahmani, Iran's minister of industry, mining and trade, announced that the country's 13 major mask makers would operate around the clock, producing about two million masks a day.
伊朗纳米技术总部则于26日与卫生部和两家企业签订协议，生产1500万只N94和N99纳米口罩。
Iran's nanotechnology headquarters on the 26th with the Ministry of Health and two companies signed an agreement to produce 15 million N94 and N99 nano-masks.
国防部的下属组织也开始进行口罩和消毒液生产，伊斯兰革命卫队的所有医疗机构将参与疫情防控。
Organizations affiliated with the Ministry of Defence have also begun to produce masks and disinfectants, and all Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps medical institutions will be involved in the prevention and control of the disease.
与此同时，伊朗政府还要求伊朗央行准备外汇以用于优先进口口罩。
At the same time, the Iranian government has asked Iran's central bank to prepare foreign currency for preferential mask imports.
虽然采取了一系列应对措施，伊朗的确诊人数依然在急剧攀升。
Despite a series of responses, the number of confirmed cases in Iran is still rising sharply.
鲁哈尼已经表示，政府没有计划进行封城或者封镇。
Rouhani has said the government has no plans to close the city or block it.
对于遭受制裁和被列入黑名单的伊朗而言，类似封城的大动作无疑将给经济带来更大打击。
For a sanctioned and blacklisted Iran, a similar move would undoubtedly deal a bigger blow to the economy.
阿华担忧，虽然政府对确诊病人设立了指定医院进行定点医治，但医院并没有足够的床位。
He is concerned that although the government has designated hospitals for the treatment of confirmed patients, the hospital does not have enough beds.
根据伊朗卫生部2017年的数据，每1000人口的床位数量仅为1.72张。
According to data from the Iranian Ministry of Health for 2017, the number of beds per 1,000 population is only 1.72.
作为自我防护，阿华准备最近几周尽量待在家里，“社区小卖部就能解决生活需要”。
As a self-defense, Ahua plans to stay at home in recent weeks, "the community canteen will be able to meet the needs of life."
（应被采访者要求，阿华为化名。
(At the request of the interviewee, Ahuawei uses an alias.
）未经授权 禁止转载。
) No reproduction is permitted.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
当伊朗遭遇新冠疫情：制裁下的“被动佛系”。
When Iran encounters the New Crown Epidemic: "Passive Buddhism" under sanctions.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "当伊朗遭遇新冠疫情：制裁下的“被动佛系”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; When Iran came across the new crown: At & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; under sanctions.
var msg_desc = "伊朗是伊拉克、叙利亚、阿富汗、阿塞拜疆、亚美尼亚等国民众的医疗旅游热门地。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Iran is a popular tourist destination for people from Iraq, Syria, Afghanistan, Azerbaijan, and Armenia.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
