首例新冠肺炎逝者解剖报告公布，有助改善患者临床诊疗方案。
The publication of the first autopsy report on the deceased patients with Newly Coronary Pneumonia will help improve the clinical diagnosis and treatment.
辛颖 王小。
Xinying Wang Xiao.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
新冠肺炎逝者遗体解剖已完成11例，据首份观察报告，肺部深处多粘液的情况，对临床治疗的化痰、排痰方案决策有帮助，对多器官的深入影响仍待进一步检测2020年2月初，武汉金银潭医院隔离病区内，医护人员正在给新冠肺炎患者做治疗。
Anatomy of dead patients with Newcomial Pneumonia has been completed in 11 cases. According to the first observation report, the presence of mucus in the deep lung is helpful for clinical decision-making in phlegm and phlegm treatment.
武汉金银潭医院/供图文 | 《财经》记者 辛颖 王小 编辑 | 王小一如当初十日之约，首份新冠病毒肺炎逝者遗体解剖报告在2020年2月24日提交，从解剖到成文，华中科技大学法医系刘良教授及其团队如期完成，并于2月28日发布《新型冠状病毒肺炎死亡尸体系统解剖大体观察报告》(下称《报告》)预印版，计划将刊登在《法医学杂志》2020年2月第36卷第1期。
Wang Xiaowang, the first autopsy report on deceased patients with Newly Coronavirus pneumonia was submitted on February 24, 2020. From autopsy to writing, Professor Liu Liang and his team completed the autopsy of the coronavirus pneumonia on February 28.
虽然首份报告仅就1个病例进行肉眼观察结果分析，但实际上刘良团队已在2月24日完成3例遗体解剖的初步病理诊断，并同步向临床医生公开，目前已经为临床治疗方案提供帮助。
Although in the first report only one case was analysed by visual observation, Liu's team actually completed the initial pathologic diagnosis of three autopsies on 24 February and made them available to clinicians in a synchronized manner, and is now helping with clinical protocols.
研究结果显示：新冠肺炎主要引起深部气道和肺泡损伤为特征的炎性反应，肺部纤维化及实变没有SARS导致的病变严重，而渗出性反应较 SARS 明显，对于心肌及心外膜、肾脏、脾脏、消化道器官、脑部是否存在与病毒感染相关的损害表现有待进一步研究。
The results showed that there were no severe lesions caused by SARS in pulmonary fibrosis and consolidation. The exudative reaction was more obvious than that of SARS. It needed to be further studied for the presence of viral damage in myocardium and epicardium, kidney, spleen, digestive tract organs and brain.
湖北第三人民医院呼吸科主任王新卫向《财经》记者介绍，我们现在将患者分为早期、进展期和危重症阶段，尸检结果提示我们在进展期就要注意患者肺部分泌物的及时排除，尽量减少患者发展到下一阶段。
"We now classify patients into early, progressive and critical stages," Wang Xinwei, the respiratory director of Hubei Third People's Hospital, told Caijing. "The autopsy results suggest that we should pay attention to the timely elimination of pulmonary secretions during the progress period and minimize the progression of the patient to the next stage.
截至2月25日，遗体解剖共计完成11例，其中华中科技大学团队负责9例，上海瑞金医院病理团队完成2例。
As of February 25, 11 autopsies had been completed, including 9 by the Huazhong University of Science and Technology and 2 by the pathology team of Shanghai Ruijin Hospital.
而是否会产生更多有助于临床治疗的信息，值得期待。
It is to be expected that more information will be generated that will help clinical treatment.
“目前《报告》看是大体检查结果，看来确实是肺部炎症损伤严重，有纤维组织及粘液产生，可能镜下诊断还没出来，还得等。
"The report looks at the gross findings, which appear to be serious inflammation of the lungs, fibrous tissue and mucus, and it is possible that the diagnosis is still pending under the microscope," he said.
”一位北京病理科医生告诉《财经》记者。
A Beijing pathologist told Caijing.
将治疗预警提前随着对新冠病毒肺炎逝者遗体解剖进入公众视野，其研究结果也备受期待。
It is also expected that the results of the study will be advanced with the autopsy of the dead coronavirus pneumonia.
《报告》发布的当天上午，一则消息在网络流传，“武汉市新冠肺炎死亡人数快速减少，原因是病患遗体解剖发现死亡者肺部出现大量痰栓，痰栓最终致人缺氧而死。
"The death toll from pneumonia in Wuhan has been declining rapidly as autopsies on the bodies of dead people have found lots of sputum bolts in their lungs, which eventually led to death from lack of oxygen," the report said.
昨天开始，急救改用吸痰机。
First aid switched to a spittoon yesterday.
”然而，这一信息从临床实践到治疗理论都被证实站不住脚。
However, the information, from clinical practice to therapeutic theory, has proved untenable.
一直在武汉某三甲医院负责重症患者救治的医生回复《财经》记者，临床没有将呼吸机改换吸痰机。
Wuhan has been responsible for the treatment of serious patients in a three-A hospital doctor to "Caijing" reporter, the clinical replacement of the ventilator spittoon.
与湖北救治一线保持沟通的复旦大学呼吸病研究所白春学教授向《财经》记者分析，化痰与呼吸机使用并不冲突，服用化痰药就不会痰液聚集，同时使用呼吸机和化痰药，就好像人可以既喝水，也可以喝茶，根本没必要使用吸痰机。
Bai Chunxue, a professor at Fudan University's Respiratory Disease Research Institute, who keeps in communication with Hubei University, told Caijing that phlegm does not clash with ventilator use, that phlegm does not build up with phlegm, and that people use spittoons and respirators as if they could drink or drink tea without having to use a spittoon.
据介绍，专家们从遗体检验大体观判断，本例死者肺部损伤明显，炎性病变（灰白色病灶）以左肺为重，肺肉眼观呈斑片状，可见灰白色病灶及暗红色出血，触之质韧，失去肺固有的海绵感。
According to the experts, from the general view of the body inspection, the victim's lung injury is obvious, inflammatory lesions (gray-white lesions) to the left lung, the naked-eye-like plaque, visible gray-and-white lesions and dark red hemorrhage, Toughness of touch, loss of lung sponge.
切面可见大量黏稠的分泌物从肺泡内溢出，并可见纤维条索。
A large amount of viscous secretion overflows from the alveoli, and fibrous cords are visible.
复阅患者入院第20天CT 片，见双肺多发斑片状磨玻璃影，可见空气支气管征，以左侧为重，双下肺可见纤维条索影。
CT scan was performed 20 days after admission to hospital. Multiple plaque-shaped grinder was seen. Bronchial signs were seen in the two lungs.
遗体检验肉眼所见与影像学改变分布情况相符合，且病变进一步进展。
The unaided eye examination of the remains was consistent with the distribution of imaging changes, and the lesion progressed further.
刘良在报告中指出，考虑影像学所见磨玻璃状影与肉眼所见肺泡灰白色病灶对应，新冠肺炎主要引起深部气道和肺泡损伤为特征的炎性反应。
Taking into account the imaging findings, the abrasive glassy shadow corresponds to the lesion of alveolar gray-white lesions seen to the naked eye, Liu said in the report.
首例报告的遗体来自一位85岁的男性患者。
The first body reported came from an 85-year-old male patient.
2020年1月某日，该患者以“多发性脑梗死”入院。
On an unspecified date in January 2020, the patient was admitted to hospital with "multiple cerebral infarction."
入院时无发热、咳嗽等症状。
There was no fever or cough on admission.
入院10天后出现喉咙发痒及发热，CT检查示：双肺散在少许小斑片状感染病灶，气管内分泌物可能，建议结合临床实验室检查完善鉴别诊断。
After 10 days of hospital admission, throat itching and fever occurred, CT examination showed: bilateral lung scattered in a few speckle-like infection lesion, trachea secretion may be possible, it is recommended to combine clinical laboratory examination to improve differential diagnosis.
入院后第13天，患者经新冠病毒核酸检测为阳性，确诊感染。
On the 13th day after admission, the patient tested positive for HCV nucleic acid and confirmed the infection.
入院后第20天复查CT示：患者双肺散在斑片状感染病灶，较前进展，考虑“病毒性肺炎”，原气管腔内分泌物已消失。
On the 20th day after admission, CT scan showed that the patient had scattered lung in the lesion of patchy infection. Compared with the previous progress, "viral pneumonia" was considered.
入院后28天死亡，患者临床死亡原因诊断为“新型冠状病毒肺炎、呼吸衰竭”。
28 days after admission, the cause of clinical death was diagnosed as "new coronavirus pneumonia, respiratory failure."
死亡前三天，血氧饱和度下降至70%~80%，面罩吸氧，加大氧流量（40L/min，氧浓度60%），血氧饱和度上升至98%左右。
Three days before death, blood oxygen saturation decreased to 70% ~ 80%, mask absorbed oxygen, increased oxygen flow (40 L / min, oxygen concentration 60%), and increased blood oxygen saturation to about 98%.
王新卫指出，由于呼吸机在正压给氧的时候可能会把黏液推得更深更广，会影响患者的供氧。
Wang pointed out that the ventilator may push the mucus deeper and wider when pressurizing oxygen, affecting the patient's oxygen supply.
因此，除使用化痰等辅助治疗，尤其是出现快速呼吸衰竭的，在需要使用呼吸机时，10-20分停止一次，可以通过咳痰等其他方式及时排出，并不会因此取消使用呼吸机。
Therefore, in addition to the use of adjuvant treatment such as sputum replacement, especially in cases of rapid respiratory failure, 10-20 minutes can be stopped once when a respirator is required. This can be done by coughing up phlegm and other means without eliminating the use of respirators.
此外，与SARS对比，此前由新冠肺炎死者尸体穿刺取样，获得的组织局部病理学改变提示，新冠肺炎病理特征与SARS和中东呼吸综合征（MERS）冠状病毒引起的病理特征非常类似。
In addition, in contrast to SARS, local histopathological changes previously obtained from coronavirus puncture samples taken from the coronavirus of the coronavirus of the New Crown Pneumonia are very similar to those caused by SARS and the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) coronavirus.
刘良在其报告指出观察，肺部纤维化及实变没有SARS导致的病变严重，而渗出性反应较 SARS 明显。
In his report, Liu noted that pulmonary fibrosis and consolidation were less severe than those caused by SARS, while the exudative response was more pronounced than that of SARS.
考虑可能与此例患者从确诊到死亡仅15天，病程较短有关，有待更多系统尸体检验资料及组织病理学验证。
Consideration may be given to the shorter duration of the patient from diagnosis to death of only 15 days, pending more systematic autopsy data and histopathological verification.
更多病理结果待进一步分析能否通过全面解剖，了解新冠病毒对各脏器的影响也是尸检备受关注的原因之一。
More pathologic findings need to be further analyzed. Understanding the effects of the new crown virus on the organs is one of the reasons why autopsy has drawn much attention.
但这也受患者的基础疾病影响。
But it is also affected by the patient's underlying illness.
如《报告》中，患者临床资料显示存在冠心病、心绞痛病史，因此虽然解剖见心包腔内中等量淡黄色清亮液体，心外膜轻度水肿，心肌切面呈灰红色鱼肉状，但对心肌及心外膜是否存在与病毒感染相关的损害表现有待进一步研究。
As mentioned in the Report, there is a history of coronary heart disease and angina pectoris in the patient's clinical data. Therefore, although the anatomy shows a mild yellowish fluid in the pericardium, a mild epicardial edema and a grayish-red fish flesh on the myocardium and pericardium, the presence of viral infection-related damage to the myocardium and pericardium needs further study.
此例消化系统损伤情况肉眼观也不明显，值得一提的是，小肠呈节段性扩张与狭窄相间（类似串珠状），为个例或普遍表现需结合更多尸体检验情况。
This case of digestive system injury is not obvious to the naked eye, it is worth mentioning that the small intestine is segmental dilation and narrow phase (similar to beads), which need to be combined with more body examination for individual cases or common manifestations.
脾肉眼观未见明显异常，是否存在病变需进行组织病理学研究。
There was no obvious abnormality in spleen's unaided eye and histopathological study was needed.
肾呈颗粒性固缩肾外观，考虑与基础疾病有关。
The kidney is granular in appearance and is considered to be related to basic diseases.
关于神经系统，肉眼观见脑水肿，大脑皮质轻度萎缩，结合临床资料，患者年龄大，有多发性脑梗死及脑血管病后遗症，脑肉眼观未见感染特异性表现，病毒是否侵犯中枢神经系统有待组织病理学验证。
With regard to the nervous system, the unaided eye sees cerebral edema and mild atrophy of the cerebral cortex. Combined with clinical data, the patient is old and has multiple cerebral infarction and sequelae of cerebrovascular disease.
而对神经系统的影响也受到其他临床医生的关注。
The effects on the nervous system are also of concern to other clinicians.
武汉协和医院在22日发表一项回溯性研究，发布在预印本平台medrxiv。
Wuhan Concorde Hospital published a retrospective study on the 22nd, published in the pre-printed platform medrxiv.
对2020年1月16日至2月19日在华中科技大学协和医院三家定点医院就诊的所有新冠肺炎患者的资料进行分析。
To analyse the data of all patients with Newly Coronary Pneumonia attending the three designated hospitals of Concorde Hospital, Central China University of Science and Technology from 16 January to 19 February 2020.
一个新的疾病，所有的器官都要观察到。
A new disease in which all organs are observed.
预计研究人员将做镜下诊断，常规需要1个月左右，“现在也得10天，有可能还要做免疫组化等。
The researchers are expected to perform a microscopic diagnosis, which typically takes about a month, "and 10 days now, possibly with immunohistochemistry.
因为是感染标本，可能需要固定时间延长，杀灭病毒后才能进一步取材，也耽误时间。
Because is the infection specimen, may need the fixed time extension, kills the virus to obtain further material, also wastes the time.
”上述北京病理医生分析。
The Beijing pathologist's analysis.
遗体解剖要经过固定，取材，制片，镜下观察等一系列工作，是不能随意缩短时间的，10天完成《报告》，是工作人员加班加点完成的。
Anatomy of the body should go through a series of work, such as fixing, obtaining materials, making films, observing under a microscope, etc., cannot be shortened at will.
”制作过程缩短时间，会影响切片质量，影响看片，诊断，所以不能着急。
Shortening the time of the process can affect the quality of the slices and affect the view and diagnosis, so there is no hurry.
”上述北京病理医生说。
"said the Beijing pathologist.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click Here for more information about the epidemic:: Archives & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and may not be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
首例新冠肺炎逝者解剖报告公布，有助改善患者临床诊疗方案。
The publication of the first autopsy report on the deceased patients with Newly Coronary Pneumonia will help improve the clinical diagnosis and treatment.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "首例新冠肺炎逝者解剖报告公布，有助改善患者临床诊疗方案";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "新冠肺炎逝者遗体解剖已完成11例，据首份观察报告，肺部深处多粘液的情况，对临床治疗的化痰、排痰方案决策有帮助，对多器官的深入影响仍待进一步检测";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; 11 autopsies of deceased Crown Pneumonia have been completed. The first observations report that mucus in the deep lungs helped inform clinical decision-making about expectoration and sputum management plans, and that its profound effect on multiple organs remains to be further tested and quot;;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
