天然气市场大国博弈及启示。
Game and Enlightenment of Natural Gas Market.
白俊。
White Jun.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
中国要想进入世界天然气第一梯队并在天然气定价权上有所作为，就要认真借鉴欧美和俄罗斯的经验教训，真正发挥市场在资源配置中的决定性作用世界最大海上铺管船瑞士Allseas公司的Pioneering Spirit在瑞典专属经济区铺设北溪2管道（摄于2019年2月）。
If China is to enter the world's first tier of natural gas and do something about the pricing power of natural gas, it should draw lessons from Europe, the United States and Russia and give full play to the decisive role of the market in the allocation of resources. Pioneering Spirit of Allseas Switzerland laid Nord Stream 2 in the Swedish Exclusive Economic Zone (February 2019).
图/北溪2管道公司文 | 白俊国际竞争与合作中大国具有更大的影响力和话语权，大国博弈主导了国际秩序的发展方向。
Photo / Nord Stream 2 Pipeline & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
这在天然气领域也是一样，全球天然气市场的发展虽然会受到所有参与国的影响，但大国之间的博弈决定了国际天然气市场的基本发展方向，天然气市场的发展又可能成为大国之间多方位博弈的筹码。
This is also true in the area of natural gas, where the development of the global natural gas market will be influenced by all participating countries, but the game among the major countries determines the basic development direction of the international natural gas market, and the development of the natural gas market may become a multi-directional game between the big countries.
全球天然气市场的三个梯队全球天然气资源分布的不均衡性决定了供应来源的不均衡性。
The uneven distribution of global natural gas resources in the three echelons of the global natural gas market determines the imbalance of supply sources.
虽然天然气资源分布比石油更为分散，但主要供应来源集中在北美、俄罗斯、中亚、中东和大洋洲等地，实际产出能力则会受到多方面因素的影响。
While natural gas resources are more dispersed than oil, the main sources of supply are concentrated in North America, Russia, Central Asia, the Middle East and Oceania, where real output capacity is affected by multiple factors.
天然气消费的多寡一方面与资源禀赋、人口、产业和经济承受力等因素有关，另一方面则受制于利用技术、体制和政策等影响。
Consumption of natural gas is related, on the one hand, to factors such as resource endowments, population, industry and economic resilience, and, on the other, to the use of technology, institutions and policies.
没有天然气液化、船运和气化技术，日本不会成为最大的液化天然气消费国。
Without natural gas liquefaction, shipping, and gasification, Japan would not be the largest LNG consumer.
没有“煤改气”行动和补贴政策，中国近几年天然气消费量不会出现高速增长。
Without "coal-to-gas" operations and subsidies, China's natural-gas consumption has not grown rapidly in recent years.
随着时间的推移，不同天然气供应方的市场影响力会出现起伏变化，不同天然气消费国的市场影响力也会出现调整，导致全球天然气市场出现新的不均衡发展。
Over time, the market influence of different gas suppliers will fluctuate, as will the market influence of different gas consuming countries, leading to new and uneven developments in the global natural gas market.
全球天然气市场按生产和消费规模可以大致划分为三个梯队，第一梯队是5000亿立方米俱乐部成员，包括美国、俄罗斯和欧盟。
The global natural gas market can be roughly divided into three echelons by production and consumption, with the first tier comprising 500 billion cubic metres of club members, including the US, Russia, and the European Union.
美国天然气年生产和消费量都超过8000亿立方米，俄罗斯年生产超过6000亿立方米、年消费超过4000亿立方米，欧盟年消费大约5000亿立方米、生产超过1000亿立方米，三者合计生产量超过全球40％，消费量达到全球45％左右，它们是全球天然气市场的核心。
The United States produces and consumes more than 800 billion cubic metres annually, Russia produces more than 600 billion cubic metres annually, consumes more than 400 billion cubic metres annually, the European Union consumes about 500 billion cubic metres annually and produces more than 100 billion cubic metres.
第二梯队是天然气市场重要参与者，生产或消费规模大致在1000亿立方米至3000亿立方米之间，其中又可以分为两个层级，一类与国际市场关联度大，需要通过国际贸易才能达到自己的生产或消费目标，包括中国、日本、卡塔尔、澳大利亚、挪威、加拿大，另一类国际市场关联度小，基本自产自销，包括伊朗和沙特。
The second tier is an important player in the natural gas market, with production or consumption roughly between 100 and 300 billion cubic metres, which can be divided into two levels, one linked to the international market and requiring international trade to meet its production or consumption targets, including China, Japan, Qatar, Australia, Norway and Canada, and less connected and largely home-grown international markets, including Iran and Saudi Arabia.
其他天然气生产和消费国大致属于第三梯队，虽然每一个国家天然气市场体量不是特别大，但有的对国际市场依赖也比较大，包括韩国、土库曼斯坦、阿尔及利亚、印度等。
Other gas producers and consumers are broadly in the third tier, and while the gas market is not particularly large in each country, some are also more dependent on international markets, including the Republic of Korea, Turkmenistan, Algeria and India.
全球天然气市场的发展受第一梯队影响最大，美国、俄罗斯和欧盟之间的博弈是影响全球天然气市场发展的主线。
The development of global natural gas market is the most affected by the first echelon, the game between the United States, Russia and EU is the main line that affects the development of the global natural gas market.
俄欧天然气博弈欧洲中西部天然气资源和产量有限，并且主力产区北海和荷兰格罗宁根气田产量近年来持续下降，不能满足欧盟国家天然气消费需求。
Gas Game between Russia and Europe is limited in mid-western Europe, and the production of North Sea and Groningen gas fields in the main producing areas has been declining steadily in recent years, unable to meet the gas consumption needs of EU countries.
除了阿尔及利亚、利比亚的管道气以及海上进口LNG，欧盟最主要的天然气供应来自俄罗斯，现在俄罗斯每年出口欧盟的天然气接近欧盟总供应量的40％。
Apart from Algerian and Libyan pipeline gas and maritime imports of LNG, the EU's most important gas supply comes from Russia, which now exports close to 40 per cent of the total EU supply each year.
对保加利亚、捷克、爱沙尼亚、拉脱维亚、匈牙利、奥地利、波兰、罗马尼亚、斯洛文尼亚和芬兰等国家而言，俄罗斯天然气供应量占比甚至超过四分之三。
For countries such as Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Latvia, Hungary, Austria, Poland, Romania, Slovenia and Finland, Russia supplies even more than three quarters of its natural gas supply.
俄罗斯供应欧盟成员国的主要过境输送通道是乌克兰，2018年过境乌克兰天然气数量约870亿立方米；其次是通过波罗的海的北溪管道，输送能力550亿立方米，2018年已经满负荷；第三是途经波兰的亚马尔-欧洲管道，输送能力330亿立方米。
The main transit route for Russian supplies to EU member States is Ukraine, which in 2018 transited some 87 billion cubic metres of natural gas, followed by the North Stream Pipeline in the Baltic Sea, with a capacity of 55 billion cubic metres, which was already full in 2018, and the Yamal-European pipeline through Poland, with a capacity of 33 billion cubic metres.
在南边俄罗斯有一条160亿立方米的蓝溪管道直达土耳其。
To the south, Russia has a 16 billion cubic meter Blue Stream Pipeline that goes directly to Turkey.
欧盟不少成员国对过度依赖俄罗斯天然气有疑虑，尤其是在乌克兰和俄罗斯数次纷争打乱天然气正常供应后，欧盟也做出多种努力保障天然气供应安全。
A number of EU member states have expressed doubts about over-reliance on Russian gas, particularly after several disputes between Ukraine and Russia disrupted regular gas supplies.
除了发展本地可再生能源、提高能源利用效率和推进市场化改革，欧盟也试图通过扩大LNG接收能力、加强管网互联和储气设施建设、提供项目融资支持等方式增加天然气供应能力。
In addition to developing local renewable energy sources, improving energy efficiency, and promoting market-oriented reforms, the EU is also seeking to increase its capacity to supply natural gas by expanding LNG's capacity to receive, strengthening interconnection of pipelines and gas storage facilities, and providing project financing support.
欧盟希望建立一个南部天然气走廊，从里海盆地、中亚、中东和东地中海盆地进口800亿－1000亿立方米的天然气，重点帮助欧洲中部和东南部国家增加新的气源，不过进展并不顺畅。
The EU hopes to establish a Southern Gas Corridor, importing 80-100 billion cubic metres of natural gas from the Caspian basin, Central Asia, the Middle East and the Eastern Mediterranean basin, with a focus on helping Central and South-Eastern European countries to add new sources of gas, although progress has not been smooth.
俄罗斯天然气巨头Gazprom在北溪管道2012年全面投产的同时，启动了北溪2号管道可行性研究，计划再增加550亿立方米输气能力，2015年拉拢德国、奥地利、法国及荷兰的公司，签署了北溪2号管道的财务投资合作协议。
Gazprom, the Russian gas giant, launched a feasibility study for Nord Stream 2 in parallel with full production in 2012, with plans to add another 55 billion cubic metres of gas capacity, bringing together companies from Germany, Austria, France and the Netherlands to sign a financial investment cooperation agreement for Nord Stream 2 in 2015.
北溪2号管道建设2018年开始并计划2019年底投产，意在衔接俄罗斯与乌克兰过境运输协议的到期，减少通过乌克兰的输送量。
Construction of Nord Stream 2 began in 2018 and is scheduled to start at the end of 2019, with the intention of bridging the expiry of the Russian-Ukrainian transit transport agreement and reducing the throughput through Ukraine.
受过境丹麦审批滞后及美国制裁等因素影响，俄方预计北溪2号管道2020年中投入使用。
Due to delays in Denmark's transit and US sanctions, Russia expects Nord Stream 2 to be operational by mid-2020.
2019年12月俄罗斯、乌克兰和欧盟委员会多次磋商协调后达成了新的过境协议，未来俄罗斯过境乌克兰出口欧盟的天然气数量将逐步降低，2020年过境650亿立方米，2021年－2024年降至每年400亿立方米。
Following consultations between Russia, Ukraine and the European Commission in December 2019, a new transit agreement was reached whereby the volume of Russian gas transiting Ukraine for export to the European Union will gradually decrease, from 65 billion cubic metres in 2020 to 40 billion cubic metres per year by 2021-2024.
此外，2017年Gazprom在南部黑海启动了输送能力315亿立方米的土耳其溪管道建设，计划其中一半输送能力用于供应欧洲，该管道2019年12月19日已经完成注气，预计2020年初投产。
In addition, in 2017 Gazprom launched the construction of a 31.5 billion cubic metre Turkish Stream Pipeline in the southern Black Sea, half of which is planned for supply to Europe, having completed the injection on 19 December 2019 and is expected to start production in early 2020.
通过这些新建管道基础设施，俄罗斯将巩固其在欧盟区天然气市场上的供应能力和地位。
Through these new pipeline infrastructure, Russia will consolidate its supply capacity and position in the EU region's gas market.
欧盟是全球应对气候变化和发展可再生能源的急先锋，其能源需求已大致见顶。
The EU is at the forefront of the global response to climate change and the development of renewable energy, and its energy needs have roughly peaked.
2019年12月推出了“绿色政纲”，确定了2050年实现碳中和的目标。
A "green platform" was launched in December 2019, setting a target of carbon neutrality by 2050.
虽然天然气在一些成员国已经不那么受待见，但欧盟还离不了天然气，尤其是在区域内天然气产量下降的情况下，未来一段时间进口更多天然气是大概率事件。
Although natural gas has become less popular in some member states, the EU is still tied to natural gas, especially given the region's declining gas production, and it is highly probable that more gas will be imported for some time to come.
俄罗斯作为近邻，天然气资源丰富、供应能力强且供给成本具有竞争力，欧盟脱离俄罗斯天然气完全不现实。
As Russia's immediate neighbor, with abundant gas resources, strong supply capacity, and competitive supply costs, the EU's disengagement from Russian gas is entirely unrealistic.
2014年乌克兰克里米亚事件后，欧盟对俄罗斯发起了外交和经济制裁，但也有意避开了天然气领域。
After the Crimea incident in Ukraine in 2014, the EU imposed diplomatic and economic sanctions on Russia, but also deliberately avoided gas.
美俄天然气博弈苏联解体后，继承其衣钵的俄罗斯元气大伤，但强硬的俄罗斯在地缘政治角逐、外交和军事等领域仍然是美国的强劲对手。
After the collapse of the Soviet Union, Russia, which inherited its legacy, was badly damaged, but a hard-line Russia remains a formidable adversary to the US in geopolitical competition, diplomacy, and the military.
美国政府视欧洲能源安全为美国的国家利益，支持打造南部天然气走廊、促进欧洲天然气供应多元化、减少对俄罗斯天然气的依赖，是美国在欧洲和欧亚地区能源政策的核心。
The US government views Europe's energy security as America's national interest, supporting the creation of a southern gas corridor, diversifying Europe's gas supply, and reducing its dependence on Russian gas, which is at the heart of US energy policy in Europe and Eurasia.
不过南部天然气走廊收效有限，不能撼动俄罗斯在欧盟成员国天然气供应的核心地位。
But the limited effectiveness of the Southern Gas Corridor does not shake Russia's centrality to gas supplies to EU member states.
随着美国页岩油气革命的成功，美国能源市场格局彻底改变，能源独立正在变成现实，美国对外能源战略和政策也在悄然发生变化。
With the success of the shale-oil revolution in the United States, the US energy market landscape is changing radically, energy independence is becoming a reality, and US foreign energy strategies and policies are quietly changing.
2011年，美国成为全球最大天然气生产国，2017年变成天然气净出口国。
The United States became the world's largest gas producer in 2011 and a net exporter of natural gas in 2017.
根据美国能源信息署的预计，由于国内产量增长过快和出口设施快速建设，未来十年美国LNG出口将急剧增加。
According to the US Energy Information Administration, US LNG exports are expected to increase sharply over the next decade, owing to excessive domestic production growth and rapid construction of export facilities.
美国政府近两年大力游说欧盟成员国购买美国天然气，称美国天然气是“自由气”，可以帮助欧盟成员国免遭俄罗斯的天然气绑架。
For nearly two years, the US government has lobbied EU members to buy US gas, calling it a "free gas" that could help EU members avoid Russian gas kidnappings.
这两年美国出口欧盟天然气数量快速增加，但和俄罗斯供应欧盟数量相比仍然很小。
US gas exports to the EU have increased rapidly in both years, but remain small compared to Russia's supply to the EU.
根据欧盟统计，2017年欧盟从美国进口22亿立方米天然气，2018年增至33亿立方米，2019年跃升至136亿立方米，预计2023年会增至216亿立方米。
According to EU statistics, the EU imported 2.2 billion cubic metres of natural gas from the United States in 2017, rising to 3.3 billion cubic metres in 2018, rising to 13.6 billion cubic metres in 2019 and projected to rise to 21.6 billion cubic metres in 2023.
另一方面，美国也在试图遏制俄罗斯的天然气出口项目，先后制裁俄罗斯LNG项目的融资、技术装备和船运，既满足美国打压俄罗斯的战略需要，又帮助美国LNG寻找出口市场，达到一箭双雕的效果。
On the other hand, the US is trying to rein in Russia's gas exports by sanctioning the financing, technical equipment, and shipping of Russia's LNG project, both to satisfy America's strategic need to crush Russia and to help the US LNG find an export market that will kill two birds with one stone.
不过此举收效甚微，不仅俄罗斯亚马尔LNG项目实现提前投产，出口到欧盟市场，而且北极2 LNG项目也在稳步推进。
But this has had little success, not only in bringing Russia's Yamal LNG project into production ahead of schedule and exporting it to the EU market, but also in advancing the Arctic 2 LNG project.
美国多次指责北溪2号管道削弱欧洲能源安全，并威胁要进行制裁。
The United States has repeatedly accused Nord Stream 2 of undermining Europe's energy security and has threatened sanctions.
2017年美国通过了《以制裁反击美国对手法案》，其中包含制裁参与俄罗斯能源出口项目企业的计划。
In 2017, the United States passed the Sanctions Counterattack US Countermeasures Act, which includes sanctions against businesses involved in Russian energy export projects.
2019年12月18日，美国参议院批准2020年《国防授权法案》，其中明确制裁北溪2号管道和土耳其溪管道工程服务企业和有关个人。
On 18 December 2019, the United States Senate approved the National Defense Authorization Act 2020, which explicitly sanctions Nord Stream 2 and the Turkish Stream Engineering Services Corporation and associated individuals.
在美国总统川普12月21日签署该法案当天，北溪2号管道主要铺设方瑞士Allsea公司宣布因此停止铺管作业。
Swiss company Allsea, the main builder of Nord Stream 2, announced it would stop laying on December 21, the day President Trump signed the bill.
俄罗斯方面表示将反制美国，并会全力以赴推动项目完工。
The Russian side said it would oppose the United States and do its utmost to complete the project.
由于具有丰富经验的深水铺管作业企业不多，制裁会给项目带来困难，但由于制裁来得太晚，这只会推迟项目投产，难以完全终止项目。
Given the small number of deep-water pavements with considerable experience, the sanctions would create difficulties for the project, but since they came too late, they would only delay the project and make it difficult to complete its closure.
美欧天然气博弈美国和欧盟是传统盟友，在法治、民主、人权、自由企业制度等方面有共同的价值观，政治经济上也互相依赖，不过美欧双方对很多问题的意见也不尽相同，目前美国和欧盟双方在经贸、国际事务、应对气候变化等领域都存在分歧。
The United States and the European Union are traditional allies, sharing common values on the rule of law, democracy, human rights, and free enterprise systems, and are politically and economically interdependent. But the US and Europe differ on many issues.
为了丰富能源供应来源，欧盟乐意进口美国天然气，减少对俄罗斯的依赖，同时也希望美国天然气要有价格竞争力，不能让欧盟成员国增加消费支出。
In order to diversify its energy supply, the EU is willing to import US natural gas, reduce its dependence on Russia, and hope that US gas will be competitively priced and that EU member states will not be able to spend more.
欧盟内部对美国的看法意见也不一致，天然气需求量小的中东欧国家希望美国在欧洲能源问题上扮演更大角色，更多介入欧洲事务，对冲俄罗斯的影响力，如果能进口更多美国天然气，哪怕是付出点额外代价，也要减少对俄罗斯的依赖，波兰和立陶宛因此都修建了LNG接收站。
Central and Eastern European countries with low gas demand want the US to play a greater role in European energy issues, become more involved in Europe, hedge Russia's influence, and reduce their dependence on Russia if they import more US natural gas, even at a small additional cost, resulting in LNG receiving stations in Poland and Lithuania.
天然气需求量大的西欧国家对美国天然气没有那么热心，对进口LNG是否具有经济性的考虑较多。
Western European countries with high demand for natural gas are less enthusiastic about US gas and more concerned about the economics of importing LNG.
一方面希望多元化来源对冲俄罗斯的影响，但也难以完全抗拒俄罗斯天然气距离近气量大价格稳的诱惑，德国长期以来对建LNG进口接收站的想法不温不火，是西欧主要天然气消费国中唯一没有建LNG接收站的国家，2019年才真正把这件事提上议事日程。
While hoping to hedge Russia's influence with diversified sources, Germany has long been lukewarm about building an LNG import receiving station, and is the only major gas consumer in Western Europe that has not built an LNG receiving station before putting it on the agenda until 2019.
另一方面，乌克兰等中东欧国家利用天然气过境增加了和俄罗斯的讨价还价能力，但这无疑是把西欧国家的天然气需求当成了筹码，危及西欧国家天然气供应安全，通过北溪2号管道绕道而行有助于解决西欧国家的现实利益诉求，美国的制裁无疑封堵了西欧国家认可的一条出路。
On the other hand, the use of gas transit by countries in Central and Eastern Europe, such as Ukraine, has increased bargaining power with Russia, but it has undoubtedly used Western European countries "gas demand as a bargaining chip, jeopardizing the security of gas supplies to Western European countries.
对于美国制裁北溪2号管道相关企业，乌克兰、波兰和立陶宛等中东欧国家表示欢迎，德国政府则强烈不满。
Central and Eastern European countries such as Ukraine, Poland and Lithuania welcomed the US sanctions against Nord Stream 2, while the German government resented it.
德国外交部长马斯（Heiko Maas）2019年12月18日表示，欧洲能源政策必须由欧洲来决定，而不是由美国决定，“我们坚决拒绝外部干涉，反对具有域外效力的制裁”。
German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said on December 18, 2019 that Europe's energy policy must be determined by Europe, not by the US, and that "we firmly reject outside interference and extraterritorial sanctions."
参与北溪2号管道融资的法国、奥地利、荷兰等国家也对美国的做法心存不满，预计不会就此听从美国的安排。
Countries such as France, Austria and the Netherlands, which are involved in Nord Stream 2 financing, are also unhappy with the US approach and are not expected to follow its lead.
天然气市场三个梯队格局的变动趋势俄罗斯是欧盟天然气市场的传统主力供应商，乐见欧盟区域本地供应下降，进而利用自己的资源优势和管输能力，扩大销售；欧盟认可俄气的多重现实优势，但对过度依赖引发的供应安全问题存在担心，主张多元化气源，扩大LNG接收能力。
The EU recognises the multiple practical advantages of Russian gas, but is concerned about the security of supply caused by overdependence, and advocates diversification of gas sources and expansion of LNG reception capacity.
同时欧盟对可再生天然气和氢气的发展情有独钟，天然气脱碳已经提上议事日程，区域内化石天然气需求的长期增长潜力将会受到抑制。
At the same time, the EU's predilection for renewable natural gas and hydrogen, the decarbonization of natural gas is on the agenda, and the region's long-term growth potential for fossil-gas demand will be constrained.
美国要大量出口LNG，欧盟是相对亚洲更近的需求市场，支付能力强，美国也是志在必得。
The US exports LNG in large quantities, the EU is a closer market for demand than Asia, it has a strong capacity to pay, and the US is eager to do so.
俄美欧三方博弈增加了天然气市场的竞争，竞争带来的效率提升和消费者福利改善将会外溢到其他区域天然气市场，有利于全球天然气市场发展。
The trilateral game between Russia and the United States and Europe has increased competition in natural gas market, and the efficiency gains and consumer welfare improvement brought by competition will spill over to other regional gas markets, which will benefit the global natural gas market.
欧盟致力于推进天然气市场化改革，欧洲挂钩石油的天然气定价方式已经逐渐退出，气气竞争的格局逐步形成，再加上美国比较成熟的天然气市场化定价和新型LNG贸易模式的冲击，全球天然气定价正在向更加市场化的方向演进，区域间的价差被拉低，市场联动性逐步增强，天然气开始向下一个流动性强的能源大宗商品转变。
The EU is committed to promoting market-oriented reforms of natural gas, the phasing out of European pegged oil pricing, the gradual formation of gas-air competition, the more mature US market-oriented pricing of natural gas and the impact of the new LNG trading model, the evolution of global gas pricing towards a more market-oriented approach, lower interregional spreads, increasing market interconnectedness, and the shift of natural gas to the next more liquid energy commodity.
由于坚持市场竞争的政策取向和制度建设，北美和欧洲已经成为区域价格发现中心，俄罗斯虽然贵为天然气第一梯队成员，在管道气出口市场地位显赫，在LNG供应上也大有后来居上的态势，却无法形成一个被市场接受的标杆价格，在欧洲销售只能随行就市。
North America and Europe have become regional price discovery centers because of their adherence to market competition policy orientation and institution-building. Although Russia is a member of the first tier of natural gas, it occupies a prominent position in the pipeline gas export market and has a long way to go in LNG supply.
天然气市场三个梯队格局的变动趋势天然气三个梯队的发展格局会长期稳定，从一个梯队跃升到另一个梯队虽有可能，但只有极少数国家能做到，并且也需要一个长期过程。
Changes in the three echelons of the natural gas market The development pattern of the three echelons of natural gas will be stable for a long time. While it is possible to jump from one echelon to another, only a very small number of countries can and will take a long time to do so.
美国和俄罗斯将长期处于天然气第一梯队阵营，会力图扩大天然气供应能力，迎接天然气市场的下一场需求狂欢。
The United States and Russia will be in the gas first echelon for a long time and will try to expand their gas supply capacity for the next demand binge in the gas market.
按照欧盟2050年实现碳中和的目标，欧盟化石天然气需求将走向长期下行的道路，而在欧盟尚未全身退出第一梯队时，中国将迎头赶上，加入天然气第一梯队俱乐部。
With the EU's goal of carbon neutrality by 2050, EU fossil-gas demand will follow a long-term downward path, while China will catch up with the first-tier natural-gas club before the EU has fully exited the first tier.
中国将是唯一一个能快速实现这种转变的国家，其他处于第二梯队的国家难有跃升至第一梯队的可能。
China will be the only country to make this transition quickly, with other countries in the second tier having little chance of jumping to the first tier.
日本的天然气需求难有大的增量，卡塔尔、加拿大和澳大利亚作为重要国际供应方有增供潜力，也难以跻身第一梯队。
Japan's demand for natural gas is unlikely to increase significantly, and Qatar, Canada and Australia have the potential to grow as important international suppliers and are unlikely to join the first tier.
受制于政治经济国际关系等多方面约束，坐拥丰富天然气资源的伊朗难以做大。
Given the constraints of political and economic international relations, it is difficult for Iran, with its vast natural-gas resources, to do so.
处于天然气第三梯队的印度存在很大的需求想象空间，进入第二梯队不是一件难事，但由于经济、资源和制度等原因，离天然气第一梯队仍将遥不可及。
India, in the third tier of natural gas, has plenty of room for imagination. Getting into the second tier will not be difficult, but for economic, resource, and institutional reasons, the first tier of gas will remain out of reach.
东非和东地中海盆地等地的天然气发现有利于扩大全球天然气供应，不过目前来看没有任何一个国家能因此跃升至第一梯队，对全球天然气市场产生重大影响。
The discovery of natural gas in places like East Africa and the Eastern Mediterranean basin has helped expand global gas supplies, but no country has yet jumped to the top tier, with significant implications for the global gas market.
对中国天然气市场发展的启示和北美、欧洲及俄罗斯等早已进入油气时代不同，中国依然处于煤炭时代，中国的能源转型有自己的特点，减少对煤炭的过度依赖是中国能源转型和实现能源高质量发展的核心内容。
Unlike North America, Europe, and Russia, which have already entered the oil and gas era, China is still in the coal age, and China's energy transformation has its own characteristics. Reducing over-reliance on coal is the core of China's energy transformation and achieving high-quality energy development.
天然气作为最清洁低碳的化石能源，通过市场竞争实现降成本和增供应，市场规模将不断扩大，成为中国能源转型过程的有力支撑。
As the cleanest and low-carbon fossil energy source, natural gas can reduce costs and increase supply through market competition.
中国天然气消费市场的扩大需要国内国外两方面形成合力，在国内需要通过深化改革，释放国内供应潜力；在国际上要充分利用全球天然气市场大国博弈带来的良好机遇，加大天然气引进力度。
The expansion of China's natural gas consumption market will require concerted efforts from both domestic and foreign sources. In-country reforms are needed to unlock domestic supply potential through deeper reforms.
中俄东线天然气合作2019年终于开花结果，既与中国需求和俄罗斯供应匹配度高有关，也得益于俄罗斯与欧美博弈的助推作用。
Sino-Russian east-line gas cooperation finally came to fruition in 2019, owing both to China's demand and Russia's high supply matching, and to the impetus provided by Russia's game with Europe and the US.
政治外交博弈影响国际天然气市场的合作与竞争，但经济性力量始终是根本因素。
Political-diplomatic game influences the cooperation and competition of international natural gas market, but economic power is always the fundamental factor.
要鼓励和支持国内企业参与国际天然气投资和贸易，借助各种组织和渠道，倡导和促进全球天然气市场的进一步融合发展，研讨天然气大国合作的新机制和新模式。
Domestic enterprises should be encouraged and supported to participate in international gas investment and trade, and new mechanisms and models for cooperation among large natural gas countries should be explored through various organizations and channels to promote and facilitate the further integrated development of the global natural gas market.
如果中国在进入第一梯队的同时希望在天然气价格发现方面发挥更积极的作用，就要认真借鉴欧美发展经验和俄罗斯的教训，通过建立和完善天然气行业的市场化体制，用制度化的方式增强人们对市场的信心，真正发挥市场在资源配置中的决定性作用。
If China wants to play a more active role in the discovery of natural gas prices at the same time as it enters the first echelon, it should draw lessons from the development experience of Europe and the United States and Russia, strengthen people's confidence in the market in an institutionalized way and give full play to the decisive role of the market in the allocation of resources.
（作者为北京燃气集团研究院副院长；编辑：马克）▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
(Author: Vice President, Beijing Gas Group Research Institute; Editor: Mark) Click here to see more details about the outbreak. & nbsp; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
天然气市场大国博弈及启示。
Game and Enlightenment of Natural Gas Market.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "天然气市场大国博弈及启示";。
var msg _ title = & quot; gas market power games and inspiration & quot;;
var msg_desc = "中国要想进入世界天然气第一梯队并在天然气定价权上有所作为，就要认真借鉴欧美和俄罗斯的经验教训，真正发挥市场在";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; China & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & #
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
