战疫启示录：从柔性供应链到韧性供应链。
Apocalypse of the Plague: From Flexible Supply Chain to Resilient Supply Chain.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 财经十一人。
The following article comes from eleven financial experts.
Author 刘晓明 叶楠。
Author Liu Xiaoming Yennan.
财经十一人。
Eleven finance and economics.
由《财经》杂志公司产业报道团队创建，研讨企业成败，探究行业兴衰，推动阳光商业。
Founded by Caijing magazine's industry report team, it explores the success or failure of enterprises, probes into the ups and downs of the industry, and promotes sunshine business.
大多数企业领导考虑是如何通过供应链的柔性来降本增效、缩短交付周期。
Most business leaders consider how flexibility in the supply chain can reduce cost-effectiveness and lead times.
但面对不确定风险时，如果只考虑柔性而忽视韧性，供应链就会出现“一冲即断，断后难复”的现象刘晓明 叶楠 | 文牛津研究院预测，新冠疫情冲击将导致2020年全球经济增长减少0.2个百分点，年增速跌至2.3%，这将是2008年金融危机以来的最低增速。
But in the face of uncertain risk, if flexibility is considered rather than resilience, the supply chain will experience a "one-off, one-off-the-road" phenomenon. Oxford predicts that the new crown shock will reduce global economic growth by 0.2 percentage points to 2.3 per cent annually in 2020, the slowest rate since the 2008 financial crisis.
在中国，除了餐饮、旅游等与百姓日常生活息息相关的第三产业遭受重创以外，众多制造业企业也受到很大冲击。
Besides catering and tourism, the tertiary industry, which is closely related to people's daily life, has been hard hit in China.
而且疫情对制造业的冲击深度和持续的时间要远远长于服务业，这意味着制造业蒙受的损失将更为严重。
And the depth and duration of the epidemic's impact on manufacturing will be much longer than in services, meaning that manufacturing will suffer more.
科尔尼预计，此次疫情对中国今年一季度的国内制造业增加值将产生至少5000亿元的负面影响。
Colney expects the outbreak to have a negative impact of at least 500 billion yuan on domestic manufacturing value added in the first quarter of this year.
以汽车业为例，IHS预测，受低迷的消费端和困难重重的供应端双面夹击，中国2020年一季度新车销售同比下降将超过25%。
In the auto sector, for example, the IHS predicts sales of new cars will fall by more than 25% YoY in the first quarter of 2020, on a sluggish consumer side and a difficult supply-side double whammy.
更为重要的是，中国作为“世界工厂”，疫情对中国经济和企业的严重影响已经传递到世界各地，比如电子行业、汽车行业，甚至于游戏行业。
More importantly, as the "workshop of the world," the severe impact of the epidemic on China's economy and businesses has spread to other parts of the world, from electronics to automobiles to even gaming.
韩国现代汽车和意大利菲亚特汽车更是因为零件供应中断，导致部分在中国地区之外的工厂和生产线停产；美国苹果公司已经宣布因受新型冠状病毒疫情影响，由于中国生产的芯片供应受阻，预计无法达成本季度的销售目标；而在大洋彼岸的游戏巨头任天堂旗下的热销产品Switch也因零部件短缺即将面临全球断货。
Hyundai Motor Co. of South Korea and Fiat Motor Co. of Italy have shut down parts supplies, leading to some factories and production lines outside of China. Apple has announced that it is not on track to meet this quarter's sales target because of a new coronavirus outbreak.
虽然疫情还没有结束，但中国以及世界其他国家的企业已经为应对这一突发事件付出了巨大代价，各产业的供应链都遭受了巨大冲击。
Although the epidemic is not over, companies in China and the rest of the world have already paid a huge price for the emergency, and supply chains across industries have been hit hard.
我们这些冲击产生的后果有些可以快速修复，但有些将无法修复，甚至影响未来的产业格局。
Some of the consequences of these shocks can be repaired quickly, but others will not, or even affect, future industrial patterns.
如果将应对新冠疫情看作是对制造业企业供应链的一场突击考试的话，那么企业领导者对自身企业的表现是否满意？企业在供应链管理方面还有哪些弱点？企业应如何调整供应链来更有效的应对未来类似的突发事件？应对危机的关键：供应链韧性疫情当前，各企业纷纷采取应急措施或者临时措施来努力维持供应链的稳定性，即保供。
If dealing with the new crown is seen as a surprise test for manufacturing companies "supply chains, are business leaders satisfied with their companies" performance? What are their weaknesses in supply-chain management? How can companies adapt their supply chains to respond more effectively to similar emergencies in the future?
为了确保供应，很多企业付出了巨大的代价，但从目前来看，很多企业的应对效果并不尽如人意。
Many companies have paid a huge price to ensure supply, but so far, many have not responded as well as they should.
这当然有外部环境的原因，比如政府强制规定的交通临时管制、生产临时管制等等。
There are, of course, reasons for the external environment, such as temporary traffic controls imposed by the Government, temporary controls on production, etc.
但总体来看，企业的供应链表现还是有很大的可以提升的空间。
But overall, the enterprise's supply chain performance still has a great deal of room for improvement.
以汽车制造业为例，目前在全国整车生产基地中有约50%已经复工，但其中的产能利用率普遍较低，平均只有50% - 60%。
In the automotive industry, for example, about 50 per cent of the country's total vehicle production base has now returned to work, but capacity utilization is generally low, averaging between 50 and 60 per cent.
即使有些企业确保了供应链不中断和较高的产能利用率，但那也是已极其高昂的成本来实现的，比如利用空运零件来保持整车生产，这其实会大大的降低企业的盈利，从而削弱了保供的经济意义。
Even if some firms ensure uninterrupted supply chains and high capacity utilization, that can be achieved at extremely high costs, such as using air parts to keep vehicles afloat, which would substantially reduce profits and thus the economic significance of the guarantee.
为什么会造成这种被动局面？造成这一局面的原因有很多，我们认为其中一个很重要的原因是企业供应链只有柔性而缺乏韧性。
There are many reasons for this situation, one of which we think is that the supply chain is only flexible but not resilient.
目前，大多数企业领导者都规划或者建设了柔性供应链，但迫于眼前的竞争压力，他们更多的是考虑如何通过供应链的柔性来降本增效，或者缩短交付周期。
Most business leaders now plan or build flexible supply chains, but, under immediate competitive pressure, they are more likely to consider how to reduce efficiency gains or delivery cycles through supply-chain flexibility.
对不可预测、不确定的风险消解或应急管理方面的考虑远远不够。
Unpredictable and uncertain risk resolution or emergency management considerations are far from sufficient.
即他们只考虑了供应链的柔性，而忽视了供应链的韧性，从而出现“一冲即断，断后难复”的现象。
That is, they only consider the flexibility of the supply chain, and neglect the resilience of the supply chain, resulting in a "rush, break, stop" phenomenon.
新冠疫情如同一面镜子，清楚的让企业了解到自身供应链在规划与管理上的弱点和盲点。
The new crown epidemic is like a mirror, clearly let enterprises understand their own supply chain planning and management weaknesses and blind spots.
在日益复杂、动荡和不可预测的大环境下，不确定性及易变性已成为企业经营所处的新常态，自然灾害、政局变动、技术突破等各类黑天鹅或灰犀牛事件势必会以更高的频率和强度出现，扰乱制造业既定的供应体系。
In an increasingly complex, volatile, and unpredictable environment, uncertainty and volatility have become the new normal for business operations, with natural disasters, political changes, technological breakthroughs, and other black swan or grey rhino events occurring with greater frequency and intensity, disrupting established supply systems in manufacturing.
例如中美贸易战争，地缘政治导致的国家间冲突，环境变暖带来的极端天气频现等等。
Examples include the Sino-American trade war, geopolitical conflicts between countries, and extreme weather events brought about by warming.
因此，我们认为类似新冠疫情这种突发事件未来大概率还会有，而且对企业供应体系造成的影响可能更大、更广、更深。
Therefore, we believe that the probability of an unexpected event like the New Crown Epidemic will continue in the future, and the impact on the enterprise supply system may be greater, wider and deeper.
那么疫情过后，企业在供应链规划与管理上应该如何应对呢？科尔尼认为：企业应认真审视和深入思考自身供应链的中长期战略规划，重构供应链危机应对体系，而这一体系的关键点就是强化供应链的韧度。
After the epidemic, how should enterprises deal with the supply chain planning and management? According to Kearney, enterprises should carefully review and deeply consider the medium- and long-term strategic planning of their own supply chain, and reconstruct the crisis management system of supply chain, the key point of which is to strengthen the toughness of supply chain.
这一点对于已经和将要进行全球业务拓展的中国领先企业来说尤为重要。
This is particularly important for China's leading companies, which already have and will expand globally.
如现在未引起足够重视，那未来很有可能会损失惨重，甚至一蹶不振。
If not enough attention is paid to it now, the future is likely to be disastrous or even debilitating.
企业亟需建设供应链3.0科尔尼认为，供应链的韧性是供应链3.0的典型特征之一。
Enterprises urgently need to build supply chain 3.0 Colney believes that supply chain resilience is one of the typical characteristics of supply chain 3.0.
供应链1.0的典型特征是封闭的、单向分段式，其主要是为企业解决基本货物的供给问题；供应链2.0以IT技术为支撑，具备集成化和链条式的主要特征，其主要是为企业解决降本增效的问题；而供应链3.0则是在全球化和新技术进入到一个新阶段的时代背景下，为企业解决效率、稳健、成本、风控兼顾的问题，使其具备面对不确定性时的缓冲、快速应对及适应的能力。
Supply chain 1.0 is typically a closed, one-way segmented solution that addresses the supply of essential goods for the enterprise. Supply chain 2.0 is supported by IT technology and has the main features of integration and chain-like features. Supply chain 3.0 addresses efficiency, soundness, cost and wind control for enterprises, providing them with buffers, rapid response and adaptation to uncertainty in an era of globalization and new technologies.
从供应链2.0向供应链3.0进化，既是企业重塑体系竞争力的新机会，也是企业管理者必须面临的一个巨大挑战。
The evolution from 2. 0 to 3. 0 in supply chain is not only a new opportunity for enterprises to reshape the competitiveness of the system, but also a great challenge for enterprise managers.
从应对新冠疫情过程的表现来看，企业需要重新思考如何进行供应链转型。
In the light of the response to the new crown epidemic, enterprises need to rethink how to transform the supply chain.
在综合考虑的供应链3.0要帮助企业实现的目标和所处的运营背景之后，科尔尼认为，一个健全的供应链3.0应该具备Reliable（强固）, Resilient（韧度）, Risk-proof（抗风险），Responsive（敏捷）四个特性。
After considering the goals and operating context of supply chain 3.0, Colney believes that a robust supply chain 3.0 should have the following four characteristics: Reliability, Resilience, Risk-Proof, and Responsive.
即一个以数字化为基础的智能化技术手段赋能的多层次网状供应链，引入风险平衡机制，以柔性工作流在多种运营模式之间灵活切换，实现高效、低成本与稳健并存的供应体系。
That is, a multi-level network supply chain with intelligent technology based on digitalization, the risk balance mechanism is introduced, flexible workflow is switched flexibly between various operation modes, and the supply system with high efficiency, low cost and steady coexistence is realized.
面对风险以及突发事件，企业能变被动应对为主动防御，从而将竞争对手眼中的危险视为自己的机会。
Faced with risks and emergencies, enterprises can be passive response to the proactive defense, so that competitors see the danger as their own opportunity.
具备4R框架的供应链意味着企业具备综合性的解决方案，涵盖从战略、运营、技术，到组织多个层面的规划与布局，实现供应链效率、强度和韧度的最佳组合。
A supply chain with a 4R framework means that the enterprise has an integrated solution that covers planning and layout at multiple levels, from strategic, operational and technological to organizational, to achieve the best combination of supply chain efficiency, intensity and resilience.
供应链3.0与传统供应链相比具有4方面差异，主要体现在考量范畴、价值评估、技术手段及实现方式等方面，将更好地助力企业在变化莫测的新时代敏捷从容地应对挑战，实现可持续发展。
Compared with the traditional supply chain, Supply Chain 3.0 has four different aspects, which are mainly reflected in the areas of consideration, value evaluation, technical means and realization methods, which will better help enterprises to meet challenges and achieve sustainable development in a changing and new era.
表1. 供应链3.0与传统供应链的主要差异总结如何定量管理供应链的韧性企业在构建供应链3.0体系时，除了要确保高效及时、质量可靠、低成本以外，还要将供应链的韧度提到战略关注的层面上来。
Table 1. Key Differences between Supply Chain 3.0 and Traditional Supply Chains Summary of how to quantitatively manage the resilience of the supply chain. In addition to ensuring high efficiency, reliability and low cost, the resilience of the supply chain should be raised to the level of strategic concern.
只有这样，才能确保企业在不同运营场景下都实现在高效和稳健模式之间无缝切换，灵活应对不同场景的不同要求，尤其是在疫情爆发或其他外部突发事件发生时。
Only in this way can we ensure that enterprises can switch seamlessly between efficient and robust modes under different operating scenarios and flexibly respond to the different requirements of different scenarios, especially when outbreaks or other external emergencies occur.
例如家乐氏公司战略性地从内部韧性、可预见性、数据分析以及合作伙伴等四个方面全面提升其供应链的抗风险能力，其中尤其强调短期韧性对非常时期供应链维稳的重要性。
Carrefour, for example, strategically enhances the resilience of its supply chain across the board in terms of internal resilience, predictability, data analysis and partnerships, with particular emphasis on the importance of short-term resilience to the sustainability of the supply chain in times of stress.
此次疫情发生后非常短的时间内，家乐氏主要产品供应体系就强势恢复稳定水平，不仅可以满足日常销售所需，更能为奋战疫情一线医务和后勤保障人员捐赠13吨家乐氏麦片，可供2000人食用130天。
Within a very short period of time after the outbreak, the main product supply system of Carrefour was firmly restored to a stable level, not only to meet daily sales requirements, but also to donate 13 tons of Kaleche cereals to frontline medical and logistical support staff of the fight against the epidemic for 130 days.
图1. 家乐氏供应链转型战略家乐氏对各类不确定性的从容甚至超常应对正是来自于其日复一日地对其自身供应链韧度的锻造。
Fig. 1. Carlisle's supply chain transformation strategist's ease and even extraordinary response to various types of uncertainty comes from the daily forging of its own supply chain resilience.
我们建议领先企业在面向未来更加不确定的经营环境下，应借鉴家乐氏成功经验，将增强供应链韧度提升到企业战略地位，并通过量化指标来系统地评价、追踪、进而持续提升供应链韧度。
We suggest that the leading enterprises should learn from Carlisle's successful experience, upgrade the toughness of supply chain to the strategic position of enterprises, and systematically evaluate, track and continuously improve the toughness of the supply chain by means of quantitative indicators.
通过在日常业务管理过程中不断强化供应链的韧度，从而实现企业在应对突发事件的时候能够展现出比其他企业更强的应对能力，确保业务的稳健和连续性。
By continuously strengthening the resilience of the supply chain in the course of day-to-day business management, enterprises can demonstrate greater responsiveness to emergencies than other enterprises and ensure business soundness and continuity.
科尔尼供应链韧度测试工具KRT（Kearney Resilience Test）。
Kearney Resilience Test Tool for Supply Chain.
该工具是从企业内外部环境出发，通过定量诊断、提前预防、实时追踪、精准应对，为供应链各个职能环节提供精准的施力点。
The tool is based on the internal and external environment of the enterprise, and provides precise application points for each functional link of the supply chain through quantitative diagnosis, early prevention, real-time tracking and precise response.
具体而言，KRT的评测将从强度、弹性及耦合性三方面进行，通过具体的量化指标综合判断企业对产业链冲击、市场需求冲击及外部突发事件冲击等各类危机事件的应对能力，从而了解企业供应链整体韧度水平。
In particular, KRT will be measured from three aspects of strength, elasticity and coupling, through concrete quantitative indicators to comprehensively judge the enterprise's ability to respond to various crisis events such as industrial chain impact, market demand shock and external emergency impact, thus understanding the overall resilience level of the enterprise supply chain.
表2. KRT工具：找到最适合自己的解决之道虽然企业在战略层面进行了统筹规划，但是我们的经验表明，企业还需在运营实践中反复摸索，才能找到最适合自身的运营举措。
Table 2. KRT Tools: Finding the Best Solution for Your Own While the enterprise has integrated planning at the strategic level, our experience shows that companies still have to fumble in business practices to find the most appropriate business initiatives for themselves.
基于我们过往研究和项目经验积累，我们通过案例列举一些有效的潜在方案供企业参考。
Based on our past research and project experience, we use examples to illustrate some potential solutions for reference.
采购：通常面对严重的突发事件，某一区域的交通网络都会被进行特殊管控，这势必使提高企业断供的风险，尤其是针对独家供应商或供应商高度集中的情况。
Procurement: Usually in the face of a serious emergency, the transport network in a given region is subject to special regulation, which inevitably raises the risk of disconnections, especially in cases of high concentration of sole-source suppliers or suppliers.
为了解决这一问题，企业的采购策略可以适当调整，通过系统和全面的评估突发事件的应对补充与供应链的成本机制，由集中供应转化为集中主力供应与网络备份供应分散共存的模式。
In order to solve this problem, the enterprise's procurement strategy can be adjusted appropriately, through the systematic and comprehensive evaluation of the cost mechanism of emergency response supplement and supply chain, from the centralized supply to the centralized main supply and the network backup supply decentralized coexistence model.
如一家企业有多个相同零件的供应商，那么就可以大大增强供应链的韧度，在出现紧急状况的时候在最短的时间内回复正常供货水平。
If an enterprise has multiple suppliers of the same components, it can significantly increase the resilience of the supply chain and restore normal supply levels in the shortest possible time in the event of an emergency.
例如，丰田汽车就非常注意维持多元供应商的局面，以控制燃料喷射的ECU为例，1992年丰田对电装公司的依赖度是75%，到2007年只有43%；而ABS的ECU，对电装公司的依赖从1992年的64%下降到了2007年的1.7%。
Toyota, for example, has taken great care to maintain a diversified supplier base, citing the ECU, which in 1992 relied on 75 per cent of electric companies, up from 43 per cent in 2007, and ABS, whose reliance on electric carriers, fell from 64 per cent in 1992 to 1.7 per cent in 2007.
这使得丰田汽车在某一供应商出现货物短缺的时候能迅速通过其他供应商填补缺口，确保零件供应水平。
This allows Toyota to fill gaps quickly with other suppliers in the event of a shortage of goods from one supplier, ensuring the availability of spare parts.
研发：在研发环节，企业可以通过增加零部件通用性以及降低对线下研发活动的依赖来提升供应链的韧度。
R & D: In R & D, firms can increase the resilience of supply chains by increasing the versatility of components and reducing reliance on offline R & D activities.
一方面，增加模块化和零部件的通用性，可使企业降低库存、提升生产灵活度，从而在突发事件来临时更容易集中调配资源实现供应链备份。
On the one hand, increasing modularization and the versatility of parts and components will enable enterprises to reduce inventory and increase production flexibility, thus making it easier to centralize resources for supply chain backup in the event of an emergency.
例如，康佳电器在产品设计环节就强调标准化和通用化。
Kangjia Electric, for example, emphasizes standardization and generalization in product design.
康佳在电视机制式的设计上力求最大的兼容性，一种产品力求可以覆盖更多地区的制式要求，如某个系列数字电视不但可以满足澳大利亚的需求，也可以满足中东、亚太市场的需求，这样的兼容性就保证了在某一地区出现紧急情况时可立即调配另一地区的库存进行支援。
Kang Jia strives for maximum compatibility in the design of television sets. One product seeks to cover a wider range of regional standard requirements, such as a series of digital televisions that can meet not only Australia's needs, but also those of the Middle East and Asia-Pacific markets. This compatibility ensures the immediate deployment of stocks from another region in case of an emergency.
另一方面，企业降低对线下研发活动的依赖可提高其对突发事件的抵御能力。
On the other hand, companies' reduced reliance on offline R & D activities increases their resilience to unexpected events.
在数字化和云技术的时代下，企业可以将更多的产品功能由软件而非硬件实现、应用云技术使不同地区团队无缝衔接、或应用数字化技术提升对产品研发和制造过程仿真程度。
In the age of digitization and cloud technology, companies can implement more product functions from software than hardware, apply cloud technology to seamlessly connect teams from different regions, or apply digital technology to enhance the simulation of product development and manufacturing processes.
生产：企业可以通过柔性化生产能力，在品质、交期、成本保持一致的条件下，实现生产线在不同批量、终端产品之间高自由度切换。
Production: Enterprises can be flexible production capacity, in the quality, delivery, cost consistent conditions, the production line in different batches, high-freedom between the end products.
柔性化生产使得企业在常规时期可以满足下游市场的多样化需求，而在非常时期则可以抵御供应链波动，随时根据市场实际需求变化弹性释放产能，并实现不同生产基地之间的互补互助，这对企业强化供应链的韧度是非常有效的手段之一。
Flexible production enables enterprises to meet the diversified demand of downstream market in normal times, but it can resist the fluctuation of supply chain, release the capacity flexibly according to the actual demand of the market, and realize the complementarity and mutual assistance between different production bases.
例如，TCL电子在墨西哥、巴西、越南、波兰、印度等国设有工厂，海外产能布局达1,500万台/年，其柔性生产可在不同地区生产其他国家或地区所需的不同产品，在疫情期间，当国内生产基地暂时停工的情况下，TCL依靠其全球产能布局保障供应，公司业务按需正常开展。
TCL Electronics, for example, has factories in Mexico, Brazil, Vietnam, Poland, India, and has an overseas production capacity of 15 million units / year. Flexible production can produce different products required by other countries or regions in different regions. During the epidemic, TCL relied on its global production capacity distribution to secure supplies and the company operated as needed.
物流：企业可以储备多种不同的物流资源，如空运、海运、快递、零担等之间的替换使用，并增加具有相应资源的平台性供应商储备，如海运领域的Flexport、Freighthub，陆运领域的满帮、Uber Fright、CH Robinson，以及市内运输的快狗、货拉拉等。
Logistics: Enterprises can store a variety of different logistics resources, such as air, sea, express and zero-load, and increase the pool of platform suppliers with corresponding resources, such as Flexport, Freighthub in the field of maritime transport, Uber Fright, CH Robinson, and fast-moving dogs and freight forwarders in the city.
在此基础之上，企业还应加强不同配送信息系统交互能力，以便在危机来临时能进行顺畅快捷的信息交换，实现系统之间无缝切换，从而在物流环节提升供应链韧度。
On this basis, enterprises should also strengthen the interactive capabilities of different distribution information systems in order to facilitate the smooth and rapid exchange of information in the event of a crisis, so as to achieve seamless switching between the systems, thus enhancing the resilience of the supply chain in the logistics chain.
例如，此次疫情之下的沃尔玛，面临着物流受阻及配送量急剧上升的双重挑战。
Wal-Mart, for example, faces the twin challenges of stalling logistics and rapidly rising distribution.
一方面，其重要的物流枢纽武汉被迫封城，另一方面，蔬菜等鲜食日配送量也超过了春节备货最高峰，是以往的3倍以上。
On the one hand, Wuhan, an important logistics hub, was forced to close the city. On the other hand, the daily distribution of vegetables and other fresh food exceeded the peak of the Spring Festival, more than three times.
依靠着丰富的物流资源及流畅的信息交换通路，迅速调整了原有的物流网络，让武汉的两个配送中心在疫情期间只负责湖北省内的门店配送，周边省份的门店则快速切换至其他配送中心供应。
Relying on abundant logistics resources and smooth information exchange, the logistics network was adjusted rapidly, so that two distribution centers in Wuhan were only responsible for the distribution of stores in Hubei Province during the epidemic period, and those in the neighboring provinces were quickly switched to other distribution centers.
经过多方协调，在48小时内联通了40条省内的运输线路，保障黄冈、仙桃、咸宁、宜昌、孝感、黄石、荆州等地市的物资配送。
After multi-party coordination, within 48 hours, 40 provincial transportation lines were connected to ensure the distribution of materials in Huanggang, Xiantao, Xianning, Yichang, filial piety, Yellowstone, Jingzhou and other cities.
这充分展现了一个高韧度供应体系的卓越性和竞争力。
This fully demonstrates the excellence and competitiveness of a high-resilience supply system.
计划：在考虑供需平衡的前提下，企业可以重新审视评估库存管理，做到在突发事件时，也能保障供应链充足可控，实现高韧度供给。
Plans: Taking into account the balance between supply and demand, enterprises can re-examine and evaluate inventory management, so as to ensure that the supply chain can be adequately controlled in the event of an emergency and achieve a high resilience supply.
企业可在日常供货环节会设立三道防线。
Enterprises can set up three lines of defense in the daily supply chain.
需求预测是第一道堤坝，适用于普通的周转库存，目标是把大部分洪水给拦住。
Demand forecasting is the first levee, applied to ordinary working capital stock, and the goal is to stop most of the flooding.
如果遇到预测失败，溢出部分则留给第二道堤坝，由安全库存来应对；安全库存对付不了的，则由第三道防线——供应链执行来补救。
If predictions fail, the spill is left to a second dyke, which is covered by safe stockpiles, and the third line of defense, the supply chain, is used to remedy any failure.
除此之外，企业可以通过设置战略库存应对破坏性的供应中断。
Beyond that, companies can respond to disruptive supply disruptions by setting up strategic inventories.
战略库存是在供应链的某一个或几个节点对某些关键的产品或部件进行储备。
Strategic inventory is the storage of certain key products or components at one or more nodes in the supply chain.
战略库存是针对大规模突发事件，为多个供应链伙伴、或某一区域的多个运营点所共享。
Strategic stocks are for large-scale emergencies and are shared by multiple supply chain partners or multiple operations in a given region.
战略库存不同于传统的安全库存，只有当较大规模的供应中断发生时，它才能被用来维持生产正常进行，而不是被用于补充随机波动造成的产品或部件缺口。
Strategic stocks, unlike traditional safe stocks, can only be used to keep production on track when larger supply disruptions occur, rather than to compensate for gaps in products or components caused by random fluctuations.
例如，华工科技身处此次疫情重灾区，但是它在年前就做好了充分的储备。
China Industrial Technology, for example, was in the epicentre of the epidemic, but it had ample reserves a year ago.
华工科技与大客户共建有VMI仓和HuB仓，在深圳有近2亿库存，可以保证客户一个月左右的供应量，有效保障了交付，使大客户订单交付未受影响。
With a combined VMI warehouse and HuB warehouse with large customers, the company has nearly 200 million stores in Shenzhen, which can guarantee customers' supply for about one month, effectively protect delivery and keep orders from large customers from being affected.
智能化技术不可少锻造高韧度的供应链少不了技术层面的支撑，企业应从数字化和智能化两个维度提升供应链的科技含量。
Intelligentized technology is indispensable to build a high-toughness supply chain without the support of technology. Enterprises should enhance the technological content of the supply chain from two dimensions: digitization and intellectualization.
供应链整体的数字化程度对其在应急时刻的及时响应与调度至关重要。
The digitization degree of the whole supply chain is very important for its timely response and scheduling in emergency.
未来企业应大力建设数字化供应链平台，让供应链在任何情境下都具备即时、可视、可感知、可调节的能力。
In the future, enterprises should build digital supply chain platform, so that the supply chain has the ability of real-time, visible, perceptible and adjustable.
一方面，企业需要把线下的、物理的供应链要素数据化、线上化，确保供应链的可视化；另一方面，企业还需建立集成化的供应链控制塔，汇聚关键信息，处理关键数据，发起关键决策并展示关键绩效，实现供应链的可感知和可调节能力的构建。
On the one hand, enterprises need to digitize and line the offline physical supply chain elements to ensure the visualization of the supply chain; on the other hand, they need to build integrated supply chain control towers that bring together key information, process critical data, initiate key decisions and demonstrate key performance to build the perceptible and adaptable capabilities of the supply chain.
在突发事件发生期间，劳动力通常较为紧张，而且在紧张关头，人为失误出现的可能性会比平时更高。
During emergencies, the labour force is usually strained and, in times of stress, human error is more likely to occur than usual.
因此，基于无人化少人化的供应链体系将具备显著优势，这促使企业积极探索和布局智能化技术和解决方案。
Therefore, the supply chain system based on dehumanization will have significant advantages, which will lead enterprises to actively explore and layout intelligent technology and solutions.
我们过往的经验表明，企业供应链智能化技术的应用没有最好的方案，只有最适合的方案。
Our past experience shows that there is no best solution for the application of intelligent technology in enterprise supply chain, only the most suitable one.
因为每个企业的经营现状和目标都不一样，所以只有企业根据战略规划目标、自身资源禀赋和竞争需要综合考虑，才能找到最适合自己的智能化技术方案。
Because each enterprise has different operating status and different goals, it is only by considering the strategic planning target, its own resource endowment and the need of competition that enterprises can find the most appropriate intelligent technological solutions.
组织保障与数字化能力企业任何业务的最终实现都离不开人，无论是直接参与还是间接管控，供应链业务也不例外。
Organizational Security and Digital Capability The ultimate realization of any business in an enterprise depends on people, whether directly or indirectly, and supply chain business is no exception.
因此，企业在供应链组织结构及人员设置方面要充分考虑面向供应链整体匹配相应的资源，以确保供应链战略的实现。
Therefore, enterprises in the supply chain organization structure and staffing aspects to fully consider the supply chain to match the corresponding resources to ensure the realization of the supply chain strategy.
组织结构：通常，企业需重塑其组织架构才能配合多层次供应链网络的顺利实施。
Organizational structure: Often, an enterprise needs to reshape its organizational structure to support the smooth implementation of a multi-level supply chain network.
企业需要设立多极化、多元化的供应链组织架构，核心部门负责公司总体战略和整体事务；各分支机构与核心部门相互依赖及相互补充。
Enterprises need to set up a multi-polarization, diversified supply chain organization structure, the core departments are responsible for the overall strategy and overall affairs of the company; the branches and core departments are interdependent and complementary.
为实现柔性与稳定性的平衡，企业还可根据形势设立临时项目组或多功能团队来应对突发问题。
In order to achieve a balance between flexibility and stability, enterprises can also set up ad hoc project groups or multi-functional teams to deal with unexpected problems.
人员设置：在数字化及智能化技术全面和深入推广的大背景下，供应链上的传统人工运营岗位将逐渐减少，转而会有大量对应数字化/智能化供应链架构岗位的出现。
Personnel setup: Under the background of comprehensive and deep popularization of digital and intelligent technology, the traditional manual jobs in the supply chain will gradually decrease, and there will be a large number of corresponding digital / intelligent supply chain structure jobs.
企业应确保这些人员具备数字化/智能化供应链的相关技能，了解整体供应链生态系统的运作规律，能熟练使用各种数字化/智能化供应设备和装备，能够借助大数据、区块链等驱动和构建供应链的自动监控、自动反馈和自动处理体系，并具备一定的危机处理能力。
Enterprises should ensure that they have the relevant skills in digital / intelligent supply chains, understand the workings of the overall supply chain ecosystem, be proficient in the use of a variety of digital / intelligent supply equipment and equipment, be able to drive and construct supply chain automated monitoring, automatic feedback and automatic processing systems with large data, block chains, etc., and have a certain capacity for crisis management.
从优秀应对到持续卓越新冠疫情不仅打乱人们的日常生活，也同样扰乱了制造业现有的供应链秩序。
From excellent response to sustained excellence in the new crown epidemic not only disrupts people's daily lives, but also disrupts the existing supply chain order in manufacturing.
以传统思维打造的供应链虽然有一定的柔性应对方案，但由于缺乏韧度，所以在抵御十分严重的突发事件上暴露了明显不足，从而使企业的运营和业务遭受重创。
Although the supply chain created by traditional thinking has some flexible solution, due to the lack of resilience, it has been exposed in the very serious emergency to resist the obvious deficiencies, so that the operation and business suffered serious damage.
面对未来更趋复杂多变的运营环境，也许不是一只黑天鹅而是成群的黑天鹅频繁降临，企业亟需借此契机深入思考自身供应链的转型方向和突破点。
Facing more complex and changeable operating environment, perhaps not a black swan but swarms of black swans frequently, enterprises need to take this opportunity to think deeply about the direction and breakthrough point of their supply chain.
企业只有不断进行管理演习，通过发现、完善、提高、再发现的过程，才能打造一个足可以“以变应变“的高韧度供应体系，从而更自信、更从容地面对不确定性，并且实现持续的卓越发展。
Only by conducting constant management exercises, and by discovering, perfecting, improving, and rediscovering, can an enterprise create a flexible supply system that is "adaptable to change," thus facing uncertainty with greater confidence and ease, and achieving sustained and superior development.
作者为科尔尼管理咨询公司大中华区合伙人 ，科尔尼公司咨询顾问李宸对本文亦有贡献；编辑：马克▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
The writer is a partner in Greater China at Colney Management Consulting Co., and a consultant for Corny Co. Chen. He also contributes to the article. He is also a consultant for Corney.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
战疫启示录：从柔性供应链到韧性供应链。
Apocalypse of the Plague: From Flexible Supply Chain to Resilient Supply Chain.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "战疫启示录：从柔性供应链到韧性供应链";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & apocalypse: from flexible supply chains to resilient supply chains;;
var msg_desc = "大多数企业领导考虑是如何通过供应链的柔性来降本增效、缩短交付周期。
var msg _ desc = & quot; most business leaders consider how flexibility in the supply chain can reduce efficiency gains and lead times.
但面对不确定风险时，如果只考虑柔性而忽视韧";。
But when faced with uncertain risk, consider only flexibility and ignore & quot;;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
