专访世卫组织发言人：做好病毒可能更大范围传播准备，中国防疫能力显著提升。
Interview with WHO Spokesman: China's epidemic prevention capabilities have been greatly improved as a result of better preparation for possible wider spread of the virus.
江玮。
Jianwei.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
这是一种全新的病毒，还有很多未知。
It's a whole new virus. There's a lot more to come.
它代表了一种演进的公共卫生突发事件，我们还会在其他国家看到更多确诊病例。
It represents an evolving public health emergency, and we will see more confirmed cases in other countries.
中国对传染病以及卫生突发事件的诊断、治疗和管理能力在过去20年得到了显著的提升。
China's ability to diagnose, treat, and manage infectious diseases and health emergencies has improved markedly over the past 20 years.
文 |《财经》记者 江玮 发自伦敦编辑 | 郝洲近期，新型冠状肺炎蔓延至更多国家和地区。
Caijing reporter Jiang Wei from London has recently spread new forms of coronary pneumonia to more countries and regions.
在巴西出现首个确诊病例之后，新冠肺炎的扩散范围延伸至南美洲，至此，世界七大洲中只有人迹罕至的南极洲未受影响。
After the first confirmed case in Brazil, the spread of Newly Coronary Pneumonia spread to South America, leaving Antarctica, the only continent in the world with few people, unaffected.
根据世界卫生组织发布的数据，截至日内瓦时间2月27日上午10点，中国累计确诊新冠肺炎病例78630例，累计死亡病例2747例。
According to figures released by the World Health Organization (WHO), as of 10: 00 am Geneva time on February 27, 2007, China had 78,630 confirmed cases of New Crown Pneumonia and 2,747 cases of death.
韩国则成为中国之外疫情蔓延最迅速的国家，截至2月27日确诊病例为1766个。
South Korea has become the fastest-spreading country outside China, with 1,766 confirmed cases as of February 27.
在欧洲，意大利的确诊病例截至当地时间2月27日18时增加至650例。
In Europe, the number of confirmed cases in Italy had increased to 650 by 1800 hours local time on 27 February.
受疫情影响的其他欧洲国家还包括德国、英国、法国、奥利地、克罗地亚、俄罗斯、西班牙、比利时、芬兰、瑞典、瑞士、丹麦和爱沙尼亚。
Other European countries affected by the epidemic include Germany, the United Kingdom, France, Austria, Croatia, Russia, Spain, Belgium, Finland, Sweden, Switzerland, Denmark and Estonia.
中国境外病例的增加引起了对新冠肺炎是否已经构成一种全球流行病的讨论。
The increase in the number of cases outside China has led to a debate about whether new crown pneumonia has become a global epidemic.
世界卫生组织总干事谭德塞2月26日表示，新冠肺炎疫情确实有变成大流行病的可能，但现在不应急于宣布这是一个大流行病。
World Health Organization Director General Theresa Tupper said on February 26 that the outbreak of pneumonia does have the potential to become a pandemic, but it is not urgent to declare it a pandemic.
“我们目前在多个国家看到的是疫情爆发和群聚性病例。
"What we are seeing in a number of countries are outbreaks and cases of clustering.
”世界卫生组织发言人塔里克·贾萨瑞维奇（Tarik Jasarevic）近日在接受《财经》杂志记者邮件专访时回复。
Tarik Jasarevic, a spokesman for the World Health Organization, told Caijing in a recent email interview.
尽管针对新冠肺炎疫苗的研发工作正在加快，但世卫组织方面预期距离疫苗问世仍需18个月的时间。
Although research and development for a vaccine for pneumonia is accelerating, WHO expects to be 18 months away from a vaccine.
“目前还没有针对新冠肺炎的疫苗，但疫苗研究工作已经展开，这样临床试验就可以在三四个月后展开。
"There is no vaccine for pneumonia, but research is underway so clinical trials can begin in three or four months.
”贾萨瑞维奇说。
'he said.
全球疫情何时达到顶峰仍未知《财经》：你如何评估新冠肺炎在全球爆发的风险？特别是在卫生系统相对较弱的国家。
Caijing: How do you assess the risk of a global outbreak of pneumonia, especially in countries with relatively weak health systems?
贾萨瑞维奇：和其他流行病爆发一样，世卫组织正在基于旅行模式、应对能力和其他因素对处在风险中的国家进行分析研究。
Mr. Jazarevich: Like other epidemics, WHO is conducting analytical research on countries at risk based on travel patterns, response capacity and other factors.
世卫组织与各国密切合作，帮助他们管理和照顾已经染病的归国旅行者或者游客。
WHO works closely with countries to help them manage and care for returning travellers or tourists already infected.
为了迅速发现病例和做出回应，各国卫生部门需要确保：疾病监控系统到位，对发现符合确诊条件的病例保持警觉；后勤到位，向病人提供医疗服务，尤其要向医护人员提供个人保护；医护人员知道如何发现感染的病人并向他们提供适当的看护；实验室有能力对疾病进行检测和诊断；提供公共传播资料以便社区了解所有相关的疾病信息，知道需要采取什么措施来保护自己。
In order to detect and respond quickly, national health authorities need to ensure that disease surveillance systems are in place to alert cases found to meet diagnostic criteria; logistics are in place to provide medical services to patients, especially personal care; medical personnel know how to detect and provide appropriate care for infected patients; laboratories have the capacity to detect and diagnose diseases; and provide public information to communities on all relevant disease information and measures needed to protect themselves.
《财经》：世卫组织警告说遏制国际传播的窗口期正在关闭，你如何看待新冠肺炎演变成全球流行病的可能？贾萨瑞维奇：突发事件委员按照《国际卫生条例（2005）》召开了会议并提供了相关建议。
Caijing: The WHO warns that the window for containment of international transmission is closing. What do you think of the possibility of the outbreak becoming a global epidemic? Jazarevich: The Emergency Committee met and provided advice in accordance with the International Health Regulations (2005).
世卫组织总干事于2020年1月30日宣布新冠肺炎为国际关注的突发公共卫生事件。
The WHO Director-General declared pneumonia on 30 January 2020 as a public health emergency of international concern.
为清楚起见，世卫组织没再沿用以往六阶段的旧系统，人们在2009年的H1N1疫情中对这一系统更熟悉，即从第一阶段未见动物流感引起人类感染的报告到第六阶段的全球流行病。
For the sake of clarity, WHO is no longer following the old system of the previous six phases, which became more familiar during the H1N1 2009 outbreak, i.e., from no reports of human infections caused by animal influenza in phase I to a global pandemic in phase VI.
对全球流行病的通俗定义是一个新病原体的爆发在全球范围内很容易通过人传人传播。
The popular definition of a global epidemic is that the outbreak of a new pathogen can easily spread from person to person on a global scale.
我们目前在多个国家看到的是疫情爆发和群聚性病例。
What we are seeing in many countries are outbreaks and cases of clustering.
一些国家已经阻止了传播，但他们仍需对病毒可能卷土重来保持警觉。
Some countries have stopped the spread, but they still need to be wary of a possible resurgence of the virus.
我们很有可能在更多地方发现更多病例。
We are likely to see more cases in more places.
在定义和术语之外，我们的建议仍是一样的。
Beyond definitions and terminology, our recommendations remain the same.
我们也将继续与各国合作，限制病毒的传播，同时做好可能出现更大范围传播的准备。
We will also continue to work with countries to limit the spread of the virus, while preparing for a possible wider spread.
《财经》：你们预计疫情何时才会出现峰值？此前有过一些预测，但后来都被证明过于乐观了。
Caijing: When do you expect the epidemic to peak? There were some predictions before, but they turned out to be too optimistic.
贾萨瑞维奇：我们对中国确诊人数持续下降感到鼓舞，但我们对那些没有明显流行病学关联的病例感到尤其担忧，这部分人没有中国旅行史也没有与确诊病例的接触史。
Mr. Jazarevich: We are encouraged by the continuing decline in the number of confirmed cases in China, but we are particularly concerned about those cases that do not have a clear epidemiological link, that have no Chinese travel history and no history of contact with confirmed cases.
韩国已经成为中国之外确诊病例最多的国家。
South Korea has the highest number of confirmed cases outside China.
我们在与韩国政府密切合作，希望找到导致被感染人数急剧上升的传播动态。
We are working closely with the Korean Government in the hope of finding the transmission dynamics that have led to a dramatic rise in the number of infected people.
我们也在关注意大利和伊朗出现的情况。
We are also following developments in Italy and Iran.
世卫组织已经向伊朗提供了检测包，在未来几天和数周的时间内，我们将继续提供进一步的支持。
WHO has provided testing kits to Iran, and we will continue to provide further support in the coming days and weeks.
我们不知疫情何时才会达到顶峰。
We do not know when the epidemic will reach its peak.
即使在看似消退之后，病毒也有可能卷土重来。
Even if it seems to recede, the virus could make a comeback.
我们不想猜测，但我们预计在中国和其他国家还会出现更多的确诊病例。
We don't want to speculate, but we expect more confirmed cases in China and elsewhere.
《财经》：日本也在经历疫情的爆发，其中大部分确诊案例来自“钻石公主”号邮轮。
Caijing: Japan is also experiencing an outbreak of the disease, most of the confirmed cases come from the "Princess Diamond" cruise.
把乘客隔离在邮轮上是一个恰当的决定吗？日本在今年夏天举行奥运会是否还足够安全？贾萨瑞维奇：日本厚生劳动省领导了协调工作以确保“钻石公主”号有足够的预防传染、保护和控制举措，同时采取适当的公共卫生措施以遏制疫情。
Is it a good decision to isolate passengers on a cruise ship? Is it safe enough for Japan to hold the Olympic Games this summer? Jazarevich: Japan's Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare has led the coordination effort to ensure that the Princess Diamond has adequate prevention, protection and control measures, while taking appropriate public health measures to contain the epidemic.
每天都有200多名来自美国、澳大利亚和加拿大等国的卫生专家与日本当局合作，确保乘客和船员尽可能得到最好的保护和照顾。
Every day, more than 200 health experts from the United States, Australia and Canada work with the Japanese authorities to ensure that passengers and crews receive the best possible protection and care.
世卫组织通过技术指导向日本提供支持，并已经向日本派出一名资深流行病学家与日本政府合作。
WHO provides support to Japan through technical guidance and has sent a senior epidemiologist to Japan to work with the Government of Japan.
取消或者不取消某个活动不是由世卫组织决定的。
Cancellation or non-cancellation of an activity is not determined by WHO.
世卫组织与各国和计划举行大型集会的国际组织密切合作，提供理性和基于科学的公共卫生指导和建议，为大型集会前期准备、集会过程以及事后提供措施建议，帮助管理和减少风险。
WHO works closely with countries and international organizations planning major gatherings to provide rational and science-based public health guidance and advice to help manage and mitigate risks in the run-up to large gatherings, during the assembly process and after the event.
指导意见可以将风险评估告知这些组织或者国家，并提供支持。
Guidance could inform and support these organizations or countries in their risk assessments.
尚未有证据表明哪种特定药物有效《财经》：世贸组织表示针对新冠肺炎的疫苗可能要18个月后才能面世。
There is no evidence of a specific drug that works Caijing: The WTO says a vaccine against pneumonia may not be available for 18 months.
为何集结了各方努力仍需等待这么长的时间？贾萨瑞维奇：疫苗的研发通常需要几年的时间。
Why does it take so long to rally efforts? Jasarevich: Vaccine development usually takes a few years.
通过全球努力，我们已经将埃博拉病毒疫苗的研发时间缩短了。
Through global efforts, we have reduced the time needed to develop an Ebola vaccine.
针对新冠肺炎，我们也正在努力。
We are also working on a new crown pneumonia.
目前还没有针对新冠肺炎的疫苗，但疫苗研究工作已经展开，这样临床试验就可以在三四个月后展开。
There is no vaccine for pneumonia, but research on a vaccine is under way so that clinical trials can begin in three or four months.
我们正在与主要的捐赠者和合作伙伴密切合作，加大对疫苗研发的投入，其中包括世界银行、防疫创新联盟(CEPI)和其他全球范围的机构。
We are working closely with key donors and partners to increase investment in vaccine research and development, including the World Bank, the Alliance for Innovation in Immunization (CEPI) and other agencies worldwide.
同时通过治疗也可以挽救生命。
At the same time, life can be saved through treatment.
在不影响这方面资源的情况下，我们还需加大对国家卫生服务能力的投入。
Without compromising resources in this area, we also need to invest more in the capacity of national health services.
《财经》：在具体的治疗方案上有何进展？我们看到一些医生将治疗艾滋病和埃博拉的药物用于新冠肺炎的治疗。
Caijing: What progress has been made on specific treatment regimens? We have seen some doctors use drugs to treat AIDS and Ebola for new crown pneumonia.
贾萨瑞维奇：截至目前，尚未有证据表明哪种特定药物是有效的。
Mr. Jasarevich: So far, there is no evidence that any particular drug is effective.
针对新冠肺炎没有特定的疗法，治疗方案主要基于临床表现。
There is no specific treatment for Newly Coronary Pneumonia. The treatment regimen is mainly based on clinical manifestation.
大部分病例是温和、自限的，对症下药就可以治愈。
Most cases are mild and self-limiting and can be cured with the right medicine.
一些演变成病重和病危的病人则需要辅助性护理的介入，比如氧气和换气。
Some patients who become seriously ill or critically ill require the intervention of complementary care, such as oxygen and ventilation.
中国已经展开了多个随机临床试验，用以调查抗病毒药和类固醇的安全性和有效性。
China has conducted a number of randomized clinical trials to investigate the safety and efficacy of antiviral drugs and steroids.
世卫组织推荐引入一个随机对照组对干预的安全性和有效性进行测试。
WHO recommends introducing a randomized control group to test the safety and effectiveness of interventions.
世卫组织也正在制定关于研究和优先疗法的全球临床总体方案。
WHO is also developing a global clinical master plan for research and priority treatment.
在世卫组织最近举行的研发论坛上，临床特征和管理工作小组把测试类固醇的安全性和有效性列为优先事项。
At a recent WHO research and development forum, the clinical characterization and management team prioritized testing steroid safety and efficacy.
此前对中东呼吸综合征、非典以及流感的观察研究引起了对类固醇使用风险的警示，包括病毒清除时间延长。
Previous observational studies of respiratory syndrome, SARS and influenza in the Middle East have alerted to the risks of steroid use, including longer virus clearance times.
《财经》：有一些病人即使病毒检测呈阳性也没有表现出病发的症状。
Caijing: Some patients do not show symptoms even if they test positive for the virus.
这种“无症状传播”的情况在传染病疫情中是否常见？应该如何应对？贾萨瑞维奇：根据现有数据，病毒的主要传播方仍是出现症状的人群。
Is this "asymptomatic transmission" common in infectious disease outbreaks? How should we deal with it? Jasarevich: According to available data, the main transmitters of the virus are still people with symptoms.
世卫组织注意到新冠肺炎可能通过已感染病毒但尚未表现出症状的人传播。
WHO notes that Newly Coronary Pneumonia may be transmitted through people who have been infected but have not yet shown symptoms.
对这些案例的详细暴露史调查正在进行之中，这将有助于更好地理解症状出现前的感染和传播如何在这些少数案例中发生。
A detailed history of exposure to these cases is being investigated, which will help to better understand how pre-existing infections and transmission occur in these few cases.
在其他的冠状病毒中，比如中东呼吸综合征的冠状病毒，无症状传播是很少见的。
In other coronaviruses, such as the coronavirus in the Middle East respiratory syndrome, asymptomatic transmission is rare.
出现症状的病人更容易通过咳嗽或者打喷嚏传播病毒。
Patients with symptoms are more likely to transmit the virus by coughing or sneezing.
病毒在早期已被识别《财经》：中国对武汉采取的“封城”举措已经实施了一个多月？你们如何评估这项举措？它在多大程度上遏制了病毒的扩散？世界卫生组织有料到这项措施实施的时间会如此长吗？贾萨瑞维奇：为了抑制病毒和避免进一步的扩散，中国采取了积极的防控机制，这是一项非常好的公共卫生实践，也是在目前情况下正确的战略和战术方法。
The virus has been identified in the early days of Caijing: How do you evaluate China's move to stop the spread of the virus for more than a month? Did the World Health Organization expect the measure to take so long? Jasarevich: In order to contain the virus and avoid further spread, China has adopted a very good public health practice.
我们希望其他国家在实施公共卫生举措时也采用这种证据驱动的方法。
We hope that other countries will adopt this evidence-driven approach when implementing public health initiatives.
世卫组织鼓励各国采取进步的举措，尤其在公共卫生面临紧要关头的时候。
WHO encourages countries to take progressive initiatives, especially when public health is at a critical juncture.
《财经》：世卫组织对中国为抗击新冠肺炎所做的努力表示赞赏。
Caijing: WHO applauds China's efforts to fight pneumonia in the New Crown.
你认为在中国采取的措施中哪些对于遏制疫情的扩散尤其重要？贾萨瑞维奇：强劲的公共卫生服务能力：中国对传染病以及卫生突发事件的诊断、治疗和管理能力在过去20年得到了显著的提升。
What measures do you think are particularly important in China to stem the spread of the epidemic? Jazarevich: Strong public health service capacity: China's ability to diagnose, treat, and manage infectious diseases and health emergencies has improved significantly over the past 20 years.
在2002年和2003年的非典爆发之后，中国的应对能力得到了明显发展。
In the wake of the SARS outbreaks in 2002 and 2003, China's response capacity has developed markedly.
监测能力加强：中国建立了强大的监测系统，包括疾病检测、对流感、肺炎和其他疾病的监控报告，在病人间发现异常模式。
Enhanced surveillance capacity: China has a strong surveillance system, including disease surveillance, surveillance reports of influenza, pneumonia and other diseases, and abnormal patterns found among patients.
这是世界卫生组织和其他合作方与中国一起建立的系统。
This is a system developed by the World Health Organization and other partners together with China.
归于这个系统的存在，新冠肺炎的爆发才在武汉最初被发现。
Thanks to this system, the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia was first discovered in Wuhan.
迅速分享病毒基因组序列：他们与世卫组织和整个世界在创纪录的时间内分享了基因组序列，从而阻止了病毒向其他国家的蔓延。
Rapid sharing of viral genome sequences: They shared genomic sequences with WHO and the world at large in record time, thus preventing the virus from spreading to other countries.
前所未有的反应：在中国以外地方出现相对较少的病例归因于中国政府为控制疫情和保护其他国家所付出的大量努力。
Unprecedented response: Relatively few cases outside China have been attributed to the Chinese government's efforts to contain the outbreak and protect other countries.
科学协作：他们愿意加入世卫组织专家网络（流行病学和卫生行动、临床管理、实验室网络、治疗和疫苗的研发），并在这些平台每天分享他们的经验与知识。
Scientific collaboration: They are willing to join the WHO network of experts (epidemiological and health actions, clinical management, laboratory networks, treatment and vaccine development) and to share their experiences and knowledge on a daily basis on these platforms.
他们欢迎一个由世卫组织领导的国际专家团队前往中国，为当地提供支援。
They welcomed a team of international experts led by WHO to China to provide support on the ground.
《财经》：世卫组织在2019年12月底接到了中方关于武汉出现原因未明肺炎的通报，当时仍缺乏对疫情严重性的认识。
Caijing: At the end of December 2019, WHO received a briefing from China on the causes of unexplained pneumonia in Wuhan.
中国民众在2020年1月20日获知病毒存在人传人风险，如果早一点让公众知道风险，情况是否会不一样？贾萨瑞维奇：事实上，病毒在早期就已被识别，中国立刻报告给了世卫组织。
If the public had known about the risk of human-to-human transmission of the virus on January 20, 2020, would the situation have been different if the risk had been made known earlier? Jazarevich: In fact, the virus was identified at an early stage and China immediately reported it to the WHO.
如前所述，中国对疫情的监测能力已经得到加强。
As mentioned earlier, China's surveillance capability for the epidemic has been strengthened.
《财经》：在中国对于如何确诊病例的标准有一些争议。
Caijing: There is some debate in China about the criteria for how to diagnose cases.
有的医生表示早前的诊断标准导致他们难以对病人做出确诊。
Some doctors say earlier diagnostic criteria have made it difficult for patients to be diagnosed.
这些标准在后期得到了修订，但前期可以采取哪些措施避免出现这样的情况？贾萨瑞维奇：对报告确诊病例的指导方法进行更新是正常的事情，因为情况会不断演变，而引发新冠肺炎的病毒是一种全新的病毒，我们每天都在学习。
These standards were revised at a later stage, but what can be done in the early stages to avoid such a eventuality? Jasarevich: It is normal to update the guidelines for reporting confirmed cases, because things are constantly evolving, and the virus that causes pneumonia is a new virus that we learn every day.
世卫组织在其中的角色是向各国、社区和个人提供理性和基于科学的公共卫生指导和建议，这些指导意见在世卫组织网站上也可以找到。
The role of WHO therein is to provide rational and science-based public health guidance and advice to countries, communities and individuals, which can also be found on the WHO website.
仍在演进的公共卫生突发事件《财经》：世卫组织今年1月宣布将新冠肺炎列为国际关注的突发公共卫生事件（PHEIC），在过去一个多月国际合作如何得到了改善？在何种情况下才会取消这一决定？贾萨瑞维奇：世卫组织与科学家、临床医生、疾病追踪人员、政府、供应链专家和公私部门的合作伙伴展开了全天候合作，在不同的技术领域协调应对举措。
Caijing, an evolving public health emergency: How has international cooperation improved over the past month when the World Health Organization announced the designation of new crown pneumonia as a public health emergency of international concern (PHEIC)? Jazarevich: WHO works around the clock with scientists, clinicians, disease trackers, governments, supply-chain experts, and public-private sector partners to coordinate responses in different technical areas.
但各国还是需要做好准备，我们处在一个关键的节点。
But countries still need to be prepared, and we are at a critical juncture.
我们必须持续付出努力来控制新冠肺炎——加强监控、展开详细调查从而发现接触对象，采取适当举措阻止其进一步蔓延——各国仍需要利用这一时间为病毒可能在更大范围传播做好准备。
Kita harus berupaya untuk mengendalikan pneumonia baru - meningkatkan surveillance, melakukan probes yang dibutuhkan untuk menunjukkan konsumsi yang diperlukan dan menghentikan tindakan untuk menghindari penyebab penyebab penyebab penyakit tersebut dapat diperlukan untuk mencegah penyebab penyakit yang lebih besar.
为了应对新冠肺炎疫情，联合国启动了一个危机管理团队（CMT），这一团队由世卫组织牵头，世卫组织突发卫生事件项目执行主任迈克·莱恩被提名为负责人。
In response to the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic, the United Nations launched a Crisis Management Team (CMT), led by WHO, with Mike Lane, Executive Director of the WHO Health Emergencies Project, nominated as head.
CMT调集了世卫组织、联合国人道主义事务协调厅、国际海事组织、联合国儿童基金会、国际民用航空组织、世界粮食计划署、联合国粮农组织、世界银行和联合国秘书处多部门的专家，并于2月24日召开了首次电话会议。
The CMT brought together multisectoral experts from WHO, the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, the International Maritime Organization, the United Nations Children's Fund, the International Civil Aviation Organization, the World Food Programme, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, the World Bank and the United Nations Secretariat.
这一机制将有助于世卫组织把精力集中在卫生应对方面，而其他机构将在更广的社会、经济和发展影响等领域贡献专业意见。
This mechanism will help WHO to focus on health responses, while other agencies will contribute expertise in the broader social, economic and development impact areas.
取决于疫情的演变情况和全球影响，这个团队可能还会加入更多的成员。
Depending on the evolution and global impact of the epidemic, the team may be able to add additional members.
基于突发事件委员会的建议，世卫组织不推荐对旅行和贸易进行限制。
Based on the recommendation of the Emergency Committee, WHO does not recommend travel and trade restrictions.
世卫组织的使命是向各国提供基于证据的科学建议，但无权干预各国采取的措施。
The WHO mission is to provide evidence-based scientific advice to countries, but does not have the authority to intervene in measures taken by States.
有证据表示对国际交通干预超过24小时的旅行限制措施在疫情初期也许有其公共卫生方面的理由，因为这可以允许受到影响的国家执行持续的应对举措，那些尚未受到影响的国家则为制定和执行有效的准备措施争取了时间。
Evidence suggests that travel restrictions in excess of 24 hours for international traffic interventions may have public health reasons in the early stages of an outbreak, as they allow affected countries to implement a sustained response and those that have not yet been affected gain time to develop and implement effective preparedness measures.
但这些限制在持续时间上不宜太久，要与公共卫生风险相称，并随着形势的变化定期重新考虑。
However, these restrictions should not be of long duration, proportionate to public health risks, and should be reconsidered periodically as the situation evolves.
突发事件委员会必须在宣布PHEIC之后三个月内再次举行会议审议有关决定，并考虑PHEIC是否仍然适用于那时的情况。
The Emergency Committee must meet again within three months of the announcement of PHEIC to review the decision and consider whether PHEIC is still applicable in the circumstances.
《财经》：世卫组织向中国派出的国际专家组是如何选定人选的？他们在中国的行程收效如何？一些世卫组织专家今年1月就已经入驻武汉，他们在当地展开了哪些工作？贾萨瑞维奇：世卫组织-中国联合考察组的行程已经结束。
Caijing: How did the WHO international team of experts in China select the candidates and how did they do on their trip to ChinaSome WHO experts were based in Wuhan in January and what did they do thereJazarevich: The WHO-China joint mission is over.
这支团队到了中国不同省份，也去了武汉，对病毒传播性、病症严重性和采取措施的影响都有所发现。
The team traveled to different provinces of China and Wuhan, where they found out about the spread of the virus, the severity of the disease and the impact of measures taken.
考察组由世卫组织和各国专家组成，带领这支团队的是（世卫组织总干事高级顾问）布鲁斯·艾尔沃德。
The team consisted of WHO and national experts and was led by Bruce Alvold (Senior Adviser to the Director-General of WHO).
团队包括了流行病学、病毒学、临床管理、疫情控制和公共卫生的专家，他们来自新加坡国立大学、圣彼得堡巴斯德研究所、日本国立传染病研究所、韩国首尔国立大学医学院、尼日利亚疾病控制中心、美国疾病预防控制中心、美国国家卫生研究院、俄罗斯国家肺结核和传染病医学研究中心和德国罗伯特·科赫研究所。
The team included specialists in epidemiology, virology, clinical management, epidemic control and public health from the National University of Singapore, the Pasteur Institute in St. Petersburg, the National Institute of Infectious Diseases, the Seoul National University School of Medicine, Nigeria, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the National Institutes of Health, the Russian National Tuberculosis and Infectious Disease Research Centre and the Robert Koch Institute in Germany.
自从12月31日接到中方通报以来，在世卫组织的区域和国际办公室的支持下，世卫组织中国办公室一直向中方提供支援，帮助中方加强反应能力。
Since receiving the Chinese notification on December 31, the WHO China Office, with the support of WHO regional and international offices, has been providing support to help China strengthen its response capacity.
1月中旬，一个小规模考察组已经前往武汉，世卫组织总干事和其他技术专家也在今年1月访问了中国。
In mid-January, a small research team had travelled to Wuhan, and the Director-General of WHO and other technical experts had visited China in January.
考察组作为更大范围协作的一部分，是为了分享数据和科学，这样我们才能迅速有效地加快行动。
As part of the larger collaboration, the teams are designed to share data and science so that we can accelerate action quickly and effectively.
《财经》：对于新冠肺炎疫情，最糟的结果会是什么？贾萨瑞维奇：想要预测新冠肺炎相关病毒的传播前景是不可能的，这是一种全新的病毒，还有很多未知。
Caijing: What would be the worst outcome of the SARS outbreak? Jazarevich: It's impossible to predict the spread of the new Crowd Pneumonia virus.
它代表了一种演进的公共卫生突发事件，我们还会在其他国家看到更多确诊病例。
It represents an evolving public health emergency, and we will see more confirmed cases in other countries.
《财经》：有人说，新型冠状病毒与非典病毒类似，我们这次如何吸取了应对非典的经验教训？新型冠状病毒有可能像非典病毒那样随着天气转暖消失吗？贾萨瑞维奇：导致新冠肺炎的病毒和引起非典的病毒不同，虽然两者在基因上有所关联。
Caijing: Some people say that the new coronavirus is similar to the SARS virus, how have we learned the lessons learned from this onavirus? Is it possible that the new coronavirus will disappear as soon as the SARS virus warms upJazarevich: The virus that causes pneumonia is different from the virus that causes SARS, although they are genetically related.
中国和其他国家做出反应的水平自非典在2002年和2003年爆发之后已经得到了显著发展。
The level of response from China and other countries has grown significantly since the outbreak of SARS in 2002 and 2003.
如果我们现在采取行动，仍有机会遏制住病毒。
If we act now, there is still a chance to contain the virus.
由于新型冠状病毒对我们来说是全新的，我们无法预知天气变暖是否会影响其传播性。
Since the new coronavirus is new to us, we cannot predict whether the warming will affect its transmission.
目前在寒冷、干燥、温暖和潮湿的气候下都有人感染了病毒，因此我们建议公众遵从他们生活所在地发出的预防措施。
People are currently infected with the virus in cold, dry, warm and humid climates, so we recommend that the public follow the precautions they take where they live.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click Here for more information about the epidemic:: Archives & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and may not be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
专访世卫组织发言人：做好病毒可能更大范围传播准备，中国防疫能力显著提升。
Interview with WHO Spokesman: China's epidemic prevention capabilities have been greatly improved as a result of better preparation for possible wider spread of the virus.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "专访世卫组织发言人：做好病毒可能更大范围传播准备，中国防疫能力显著提升";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Interview with a WHO spokesman: Preparedness for a possible wider spread of the virus, and significant improvement in China's epidemic prevention capabilities.
var msg_desc = "​这是一种全新的病毒，还有很多未知。
var msg _ desc = & quot; quot; quot; This is a brand new virus, and a lot is unknown.
它代表了一种演进的公共卫生突发事件，我们还会在其他国家看到更多确诊病例。
It represents an evolving public health emergency, and we will see more confirmed cases in other countries.
中国对传染病以及卫生突发事件的诊断、治疗和管理能力在过去20年得到了显著的提升。
China's ability to diagnose, treat, and manage infectious diseases and health emergencies has improved markedly over the past 20 years.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
