在武汉街头流浪。
Wandering in Wuhan.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
2月25日上午，湖北省新冠病毒肺炎疫情防控指挥部发布公告，「对因离鄂通道管控滞留在湖北、生活存在困难的外地人员，由当地政府及有关方面提供救助服务」。
On the morning of February 25, the Hubei Provincial Command for the Prevention and Control of Newly Coronary Virus Pneumonia issued a notice saying that "local governments and relevant parties shall provide relief services to those people who are stranded in Hubei province and have difficulties in their lives because of the departure from the Hubei Channel."
公告发布的那天，浙江义乌人徐强已经在武汉流浪了20多天。
On the day of the announcement, Xu Qiang, a Zhejiang Yiwu, had been wandering in Wuhan for more than 20 days.
那时，他正蜷缩在武汉黄鹤楼公园附近的地下通道里，和他在一起的，还有其他6个出于不同原因聚集在此的流浪者。
He was curled up in an underground tunnel near Wuhan Yellow Crane Tower Park with him, along with six other vagrants who had gathered for various reasons.
武汉刚下过大雨，通道湿滑，徐强抱着他仅有的两个包，盼着外头出太阳。
Wuhan just after the heavy rain, slippery passageway, Xu Qiang hugged his only two bags, looking forward to the sun outside.
因为8小时的误差，徐强成了一名流浪汉。
Xu Qiang became a tramp because of an eight-hour error.
他已经买好了1月23日下午6点回义乌的硬座票，只想在武汉中转一夜，到了火车站才知道，上午10点，武汉封城。
He has bought a hard-seat ticket for returning to Yiwu at 6: 00 p.m. on January 23rd. He only wants to make a overnight stop in Wuhan.
从街边叫卖口罩的小贩口中，他第一次得知了武汉的疫情。
From the street hawker selling masks, he first learned of the epidemic situation in Wuhan.
在武汉，无家可归者有不同的流向。
In Wuhan, there are different flows of homeless people.
一部分人驻守在有热水、可以捡到剩饭的医院，一部分人居住在地下停车场，剩下的，像徐强一样，孤独地在不同公园的长椅上漂流。
Some stay in hot water, pick up leftovers from hospitals, some live in underground parking lots, and the rest, like Xu Qiang, drift alone on benches in different parks.
城市停摆后，衣食住行都成了问题，他们钻往这座城市的各个缝隙，挖取可以维生的部分。
After the city stopped, food, clothing and travel became a problem. They burrowed through the cracks in the city, digging for a living.
冷，饿，是生理上的痛苦，让48岁的徐强喘不过气的，还有生活的停滞、债务的累积带来的巨大压力。
Cold, hunger, is the physical pain, let the 48-year-old Xu Qiang out of breath, but also the stagnation of life, the accumulation of debt caused by enormous pressure.
在武汉流浪像是一次急速下坠，对徐强来说，人生的下坠从2018年就开始了。
Wandering in Wuhan is like a precipitous fall, for Xu Qiang, the fall of life began in 2018.
他失去了一百多平米的临街店铺，有时候他想不明白，为什么一个不好吃懒做也不搞歪门邪道的人，会这么不顺呢？2月27日凌晨，徐强的坠落终于有了托底。
He lost more than a hundred square meters of shops on the street, and sometimes he wondered why a person who was not too lazy to work and who did not practice evil deeds could not be so successful.
他和其他3名流浪者得到了安置，住进了酒店。
He and three other vagrants were accommodated in the hotel.
徐强告诉《人物》，20多天来，他终于睡了一个好觉。
Xu Qiang told People that for more than 20 days, he finally got a good night's sleep.
以下是徐强的自述。
Herein lies Xu Qiang's self-report.
采访在2月27日进行。
The interview took place on 27 February.
文｜林秋铭编辑｜槐杨                     11月23日，大年二十九下午，我到了武昌火车站。
yeg yeg yeg yeh, November 23, about twenty-nine afternoon, I went to Wuchang railway station.
没进站我就觉得奇怪，怎么车站稀稀拉拉的，没有什么人。
I was surprised when I didn't get in, how the station was sparse and empty.
入口被封上了，进不去。
The entrance was sealed off and would not enter.
车站的工作人员告诉我，「封城了。
The station staff told me, "The city is closed."
」我不是武汉当地人，也不是外来务工的，我只是路过这里。
"I'm not a native of Wuhan, I'm not a migrant worker, I'm just passing by.
最近一年，我在杭州和宜昌两头跑业务。
In the past year, I was in Hangzhou and Yichang running business.
过年前，我在宜昌跑完，准备回义乌老家。
Before the New Year, I finished running in Yichang, ready to return to Yiwu hometown.
宜昌有直达义乌的车，但时间点不好，非常晚。
Yichang has a direct train to Yiwu, but the time is not good, very late.
如果从武汉转车到义乌，早上6点多到，回家正好可以吃中饭。
If you change from Wuhan to Yiwu, you will arrive at 6 o'clock in the morning and come home just in time for lunch.
于是我在武汉休息一夜，买好了农历二十九下午6点多回义乌的车票。
So I took a night off in Wuhan and bought more tickets for Yiwu at 6: 00 pm on the 29th lunar month.
可是，封城了。
But the city is closed.
什么是封城？我想着，大概武汉的火车或者路段出了问题，维修好了就会通车。
What is a closed city? I think, probably Wuhan of the train or road section of the problem, repair will be open to traffic.
这时候，有人提着一包口罩走过来，「口罩要不要？」「要口罩干吗？」我问。
At this point, someone came up with a bag of masks. "Do you want a mask?" I asked.
他挺奇怪，「你还不知道？武汉发生了疫情，要戴口罩。
He is very strange, "you do not know? Wuhan has an outbreak, to wear masks.
」我才知道武汉有肺炎这回事，赶紧买了个一次性口罩，讲了价，15块钱。
"I just know Wuhan has pneumonia, hurriedly bought a disposable mask, said the price, 15 yuan.
我当时想，这个病不会拖很久，就回酒店了。
I thought it would not take long, so I went back to the hotel.
后面三天，我去过好几次火车站，不停问外边执勤的工作人员，什么时候能开？他总说，等通知。
For the next three days, I visited the train station several times and kept asking the man on duty outside when he would be able to drive.
我越来越慌，心想完了，这肯定是大事。
I got more and more flurried, thinking it was over. It must be a big deal.
酒店每天都在涨价，第一天130，第二天170，第三天就要200多。
Hotel prices are rising every day, 130 the first day, 170 the next day, more than 200 on the third day.
我只能换着酒店住，一旦一家酒店的价格超过200，就换一家更便宜的，前前后后换了4家。
I had to change hotels, and once the price of a hotel exceeded 200, I switched to a cheaper one and changed four hotels one after another.
买不到酒精，那只一次性口罩被我反复煮，煮好了用电吹风吹干，直到外面起了一层毛，才把它丢了。
Unable to buy alcohol, I cooked the disposable mask over and over again and dried it with a blow dryer until it got a coat outside and lost it.
除夕那天，我一个人窝在酒店，吃了一桶泡面。
On New Year's Eve, I stayed alone in a hotel and ate a bucket of noodles.
老婆孩子都回到了浙江，只有我困在外面。
His wife and children all returned to Zhejiang, only I was stranded outside.
我跟他们视频，他们俩看着我，不说话，哭了。
I videotaped them, and they both looked at me, didn't talk, cried.
来武汉之前，我身上只有不到2000块钱，住酒店几乎薅光了所有的钱。
Before I came to Wuhan, I had less than 2,000 yuan with me. I just gathered up all my money to stay in the hotel.
外卖也是一天一个价。
Take-out is also a daily price.
住了11天酒店，只剩下200多。
I stayed at the hotel for 11 days, leaving over 200.
我算了算，不能再住下去了，还得吃饭。
I figured I'd stop living and eat.
只好把房退了，背着背包，拎着袋子，走出酒店，开始流浪。
Have to retire the house, carrying backpacks, carrying bags, out of the hotel, began to wander.
滞留在武汉的外地人睡在地下车库尹夕远 摄2我不知道自己能去哪儿，沿着那条街胡乱地走，走了一两个小时，走累了，我走进一个公园，躺在长椅上，靠着背包睡着了。
I don't know where I can go, I ramble along that street for an hour or two, and get tired. I walk into a park, lie on the bench and sleep with my backpack.
一个保安把我喊醒，「不准在这里睡！」那我能在哪里睡呢？后来我才明白他的意思，不能躺在椅子上，但是坐在椅子上是被允许的。
A security guard woke me up. "No sleep here!" Where could I sleep? Later I realized what he meant, not lying in a chair, but sitting in a chair was allowed.
我就用背包把自己撑起来，靠在背包上睡。
I propped myself up in my backpack and slept against it.
我想不到怕，身上除了手机就是衣服，有什么怕的？人都怕鬼，这街上人都没有见到，哪有鬼？都是流浪鬼。
I can't think of any fear, except my cell phone and clothes, what are you afraid of? People are afraid of ghosts, nobody in this street has seen them.
凌晨四点，我被冷醒了。
I was cold at four in the morning.
双脚冻得没有劲儿，我只好起来走路，走到了早上七点钟。
My feet were so cold that I had to get up and walk until seven o'clock in the morning.
太阳出来了，阳光晒在身上好暖。
The sun came out. It was so warm in the body.
趁着阳光，我靠在路边一条长椅上又睡了会儿，就这样过了流浪的第一天。
While the sun was shining, I leaned back on a bench by the side of the road and slept again for the first day of wandering.
这二十多天，我睡过的地方太多了，都不好意思说，感觉丢人。
For more than 20 days, I have slept in too many places, embarrassed to say, feel humiliating.
我换了五六个地方了，去过汽车站、公园、电影院、地下室，有的地方露天，躲不了雨；有的地方用建筑工地那种铁板封住了，进不去；有的地方太冷了，晚上睡得腰痛。
I have changed places, five or six, to bus stations, parks, cinemas, basements, places where it is impossible to escape rain; places where iron plates of the construction site are sealed off, and places where it is too cold to sleep at night.
换来换去，公园里的木板凳睡起来最舒服。
In other words, the wooden bench in the park was the most comfortable to sleep on.
公园里有洗手间，还能在里面刷牙和洗脸。
There is a restroom in the park where I can brush my teeth and wash my face.
开始流浪后，我再也没有洗过澡洗过头，身上总有一股味道。
After I started wandering, I never took a shower or overwashed my body. I always had a smell.
不睡觉，我就走路。
If I don't sleep, I'll walk.
武汉的街头看不到什么人，偶尔碰到几个，盯着我，看我拖着背包，都离得远远的。
Wuhan's streets do not see many people, occasionally encountered a few, staring at me, watching me with my backpack, are far away.
他们认得我是流浪的人，嫌我。
They know me as a vagabond, and think I am.
但我没办法，还是得不停地走。
But I can't help it. I have to keep walking.
只有走起来才能不那么冷。
It's only when we walk that it's not that cold.
停在那里，寒风呼呼地吹。
Stop there, the wind is blowing cold.
最怕下雨，没有伞，只能到处找可以躲的屋檐，还不能老站在屋檐底下，必须得运动，得在不同的屋檐下穿梭。
Most afraid of rain, no umbrella, can only look for shelter eaves, can not always stand under the eaves, have to exercise, have to shuttle under different eaves.
一整天，我未必能吃上一顿饭。
I may not be able to have a meal all day.
所有饭店都封闭了，街上什么都没有。
All the restaurants are closed and there is nothing on the street.
我只能在外卖平台上点外卖，一刷，大部分店都打烊了，剩下的又贵得很，60、70，哪儿吃得起。
I can only order take-out on the takeaway platform, and with one brush, most of the stores are closed, and the rest is expensive, 60, 70, which I can afford.
只有饿到全身无力的情况下，我才舍得叫外卖吃，比如今天点了，明后天就得饿着。
Only the general weakness of hunger, I would like to order take-out food, such as today, the day after tomorrow must be hungry.
流浪的这20多天，我只点过6次外卖。
For more than 20 days of vagrancy, I ordered only six take-out meals.
有一家重庆砂锅的外卖最便宜，36块钱一份。
One Chongqing casserole has the cheapest take-out, 36 yuan a serving.
有一回运气好，点到了26块钱的盖浇饭，是最便宜的外卖了，收到一看，一大滩辣椒铺在米饭上，只能夹出两片肉。
Luckily, he ordered a 26-dollar meal, the cheapest take-out, and when he caught sight of it, a large puddle of chili peppers lay on the rice and could only squeeze out two slices of meat.
好多超市也关了，要能进超市，我就买包泡面，找不到开水，就干嚼。
Many supermarkets are also closed, to be able to enter the supermarket, I buy bags of noodles, can not find boiling water, dry chew.
有一次比较幸运，碰到一个开着门的超市，我马上进去买了一点面包。
Once I was lucky enough to run into a supermarket with an open door, and I immediately went in and bought some bread.
还要喝水，一瓶矿泉水3块钱，一天只舍得喝一瓶。
Also drink water, a bottle of mineral water 3 yuan a day, only willing to drink a bottle.
有时候买不到水，就在公园的卫生间喝自来水，冷冰冰的。
Sometimes do not buy water, just drink tap water in the park bathroom, cold.
应该是吃不到水果的缘故，没有维生素，我喉咙开始痛，口腔里有了溃疡。
Should be the reason for not eating fruit, without vitamins, my throat began to ache, oral ulcer.
武汉的政策老是变化。
Wuhan's policies are always changing.
前天，超市也不让我进了，说只接受社区团购，都是搭配好了套餐，分配给居民的。
The day before yesterday, the supermarket also refused to let me in, said only accepted the community group purchase, are a good match set meal, distribution to the residents.
我到处找能卖给我东西的地方。
I looked everywhere for places to sell me things.
有个小区里面有个超市开着，我想进去买点东西，保安不让进，他们见到我，像见到瘟神一样。
There was a supermarket open in one of the quarters, and I wanted to go in and buy something. The guards wouldn't let me in. They saw me like a plague.
根据手机里的地图导航，我标记了一条路线，准备步行七天，走出武汉。
Guided by the map in my mobile phone, I marked out a route to walk for seven days and out of Wuhan.
我试着走了一夜，又冷又饿，只能打消了这个念头。
I tried to walk all night, cold and hungry, and I could only put an end to the idea.
路上没有足够的吃的，不敢想半道上会不会饿死。
There was not enough food on the road to think if he would starve to death halfway.
走在街上，有时候看到社区给居民送菜，我心里好酸。
Walking in the street, sometimes to see the community to deliver food to the residents, I feel very sad.
有谁知道我们这些流浪的人呢？徐强睡过的公园长椅图源受访者3我打过几次救助站的电话，他们说，这种事他们管不了。
Who knows who we are? Xu Qiang slept in the park bench map source interviewee 3 I made several phone calls to the rescue station, they said, they can not control this kind of thing.
我又在武汉的贴吧、58同城里求助，发了5、6个帖子，没有得到回复。
I also in Wuhan paste bar, 58 with the city for help, sent 5, 6 posts, did not receive a reply.
我知道，人家是把我当骗子了。
I know. They think I'm a liar.
打工的人还会背着棉被，来武汉时，我只带了个背包，装着三件外套。
Working people will also carry quilts, when I came to Wuhan, I only took a backpack, containing three coats.
这些天，三件外套我都穿上了，两件毛呢的穿在里面，一件皮夹克裹在外面。
These days, I put on three coats, two plaid ones inside, and a leather jacket wrapped around the outside.
昨天冷，所有的裤子，三条薄单裤，也都套上了。
It was cold yesterday, and all the trousers and three thin slacks were put on.
但晚上还是冷。
But it's still cold at night.
上半夜还可以睡着，下半夜总会冻醒。
You can sleep in the middle of the night and wake up at midnight.
冻醒了，我就坐起来，手掌捏着两只脚捂一会儿，实在冷得受不了，我就在地下通道的楼梯上来回地走，走半个小时，走累了，靠在墙边睡下，一直睡到被饿醒，再喝点矿泉水充饥。
When I awoke from the cold, I sat up, holding my feet in my palms for a moment. I was so cold that I walked up and down the stairs of the subterranean passage for half an hour, tired, and slept against the wall until I awoke from hunger and drank mineral water to satisfy my hunger.
流浪了大概一周，2月12日那天，我感冒了。
Wandering for about a week, February 12 that day, I caught a cold.
头很昏很痛，喉咙还疼得要命，但我没什么钱了，只好打电话给我老婆。
My head felt dizzy and sore and my throat hurt terribly, but I didn't have much money so I had to call my wife.
我和她说，这次完蛋了。
I told her it was over this time.
她马上给我打了200块钱。
She paid me two hundred dollars at once.
我撑着身体，去药店里买了点感冒冲剂。
I propped myself up and went to the drugstore to buy a cold tonic.
没有开水，冲剂泡不开，我就往嘴里倒颗粒，干咽下去，咽完再猛吞几口矿泉水。
Without boiling water, the powder could not be pumped, I poured particles into my mouth, swallowed dry, swallowed a few more mouths of mineral water.
那时，我一点都不害怕自己得新冠，得了病还好受一点，起码有些人来关心我。
At that time, I was not afraid of getting a new crown, I felt better, at least some people care about me.
我又买了第2个口罩，29.8，不是N95，就是普通的棉布口罩。
I bought a second mask, 29.8, either N95 or an ordinary cotton mask.
我心疼死了，30块钱，可以吃一顿饭，可以度几天的命。
My heart aches, 30 yuan, can eat a meal, can live for a few days.
再怎么累，我都要找地方给手机充电，最怕手机没电了，家人找不到我。
No matter how tired, I have to find a place to recharge the mobile phone, the most afraid of the phone run down, the family can not find me.
昨天我跑了半个小时，才在傅家坡长途汽车站那里看到一家银行。
I ran for half an hour yesterday when I saw a bank at Fu Jiapo bus stop.
这些天我发现一个规律：银行的ATM机底下有个不起眼的插座可以充电。
These days I find a rule: there's an unassuming socket under the bank's ATM that can recharge.
电充得慢，中午开始充，下午6点钟才充满。
The charge is slow and starts at noon and is full only at 6 p.m.
为了让电充得快一些，我不敢用手机，就在边上，枯坐一下午。
In order to make the charge faster, I dare not use the mobile phone, just sitting on the side, withered all afternoon.
坐着坐着我就困了，在地板砖上睡着了。
Sitting there I was sleepy and fell asleep on the tile floor.
迷迷糊糊中，我看到有些人从我面前走过，城管，送菜的，消毒的，还有一个扫地的，跟我相隔不到5米。
In a daze, I saw people passing in front of me, city controllers, food carriers, disinfectors, and a scavenger less than five metres away from me.
他们都没有来问我为什么睡在这里。
They didn't even ask me why I slept here.
他们都好像根本没有看到我。
They didn't even seem to see me.
徐强睡过的底下通道图源受访者4初中毕业后，我做服装厂流水线工人，打了十几年工。
After graduating from junior high school, I worked as an assembly line worker in a garment factory for more than ten years.
2016年终于存够了钱，又找人借了点，在义乌的一家商场外面开了家手机店，店面挺大，一百多平米。
2016 finally enough money to find someone to borrow some, Yiwu outside a shopping mall opened a mobile phone shop, the storefront is quite large, more than 100 square meters.
那几年手机行业吃香，一年能赚一二十万。
The mobile phone industry was very popular in those years, making 10, 200 thousand a year.
我以为一切都走上正轨了，贷款买了一套房，给儿子成家准备。
I thought everything was on the right track and took out a loan to buy a suite for my son to start a family.
没想到2018年以后，这个行业开始走下坡路，大家更愿意在网上买手机，实体店越来越难经营，只能勉强保本，赚不了什么钱。
Unexpectedly, after 2018, the industry began to decline, people prefer to buy mobile phones online, brick and mortar stores become more difficult to operate, can only reluctantly save money, no money.
今天进货，明天出货，一台机子可能跌一两百。
Today's order, tomorrow's shipment, a machine may fall a hundred or two.
慢慢累积下来，亏损像雪球一样越滚越大。
Losses snowballed as they slowly accumulated.
去年三月，我被人骗了一批货款。
Last March, I was tricked into paying for a loan.
进货时，对方让我把货发给他，还没有给我钱就再也联系不上了。
At the time of purchase, the other side asked me to send the goods to him, without giving me the money can no longer be linked.
我报警，但没什么用，起诉还要起诉费，两三年内追不回来的。
I called the police, but it's no use, and the charges will cost you two or three years.
五月，义乌下了一场特别大的雨，店大半夜被淹了，放在柜子里的手机全被淹坏了，损失10多万。
In May, Yiwu had a particularly heavy rain. The store was flooded in the middle of the night.
我看着一部部手机，眼泪拼命地掉，苦苦经营两三年的店就这样垮了。
I looked at a mobile phone, tears fell desperately, hard to run the shop for two or three years on the collapse.
店倒闭了，亏了100多万，欠朋友20多万，还背着30万的房贷，我只好又开始打工。
The store closed, lost more than a million dollars, owed more than 200,000 friends, and had 300,000 mortgages on my back, so I had to start working again.
今年过年，老婆说，不要心里面的负担太重，年还是要过的。
This New Year, his wife said, do not mind the burden too heavy, or to live.
我想，老婆说得对，那就高高兴兴回去过个年，却没想到偏偏碰上这个事。
My wife was right, I thought, so happy to go back to the New Year, but I didn't expect this to happen.
本身就是在水里面，现在又加了冰。
It's in the water itself, and now it's frozen.
我想不通，我们一家都不好吃懒做，不喜欢赌，也不搞歪门邪道。
I can't figure out, our family are not lazy, do not like gambling, do not engage in evil ways.
我勤勤恳恳地打工、存钱，怎么就遇上这些天灾人祸、这么不顺呢？老婆给我打电话，在那头哭，我知道她也无能为力。
I work hard, save money, how come these natural and man-made disasters, so bad? Wife calls me, crying at the other end, I know there is nothing she can do.
儿子二十出头，今年刚去外面打工，还在当学徒，没拿到工资，现在工厂又停工了，不知道什么时候才能复工。
My son, in his early twenties, had just gone out to work, was still an apprentice, had not been paid his wages, and now the factory had stopped, and did not know when to resume work.
他们问我晚上在哪里睡，我不敢说。
They asked me where I slept at night, but I didn't dare.
老婆尽力搞了点钱打给我，但很快就花完了。
My wife tried to get some money to call me, but it soon ran out.
昨天，一个志愿者给了我100块，那是我仅有的钱。
Yesterday, a volunteer gave me 100 yuan, which is all I have.
大前天，我坐在公园里，接到朋友的电话。
I was sitting in the park the day before yesterday when I got a phone call from my friend.
我欠他5万块，他母亲突然得了癌症，需要钱。
I owe him 50 grand, and his mother suddenly has cancer and needs money.
我只好跟另外一个朋友借了6000块，先还给他一部分。
I had to borrow 6, 000 dollars from another friend and give him some of it first.
武汉下雪那天（2月15日），是我最痛苦的时候。
Wuhan snow day (February 15), is the most painful time for me.
降温了，好冷。
It's cool. It's cold.
凌晨5点，我坐在一家电影院外的椅子上，靠着包，望着天，盼着早点天亮。
At 5 a.m., I sat in a chair outside a cinema, leaned against my bag, and looked up to the sky, hoping for an early morning break.
我望着月亮出来，望着月亮进去，但没有等到太阳。
I watched the moon come out, watched the moon go in, but did not wait for the sun.
大概到中午，天空飘起雪了。
It was snowing in the sky about noon.
满天的雪飘下来，掉在我的脸上。
The snow was falling all over the sky and fell on my face.
脚冻僵了，我只好站起来走来走去。
My feet were frozen stiff, so I had to stand up and walk around.
还好有一件皮外套，一顶太阳帽，可以挡一下雪和雨。
Fortunately, there is a leather jacket, a sun hat, can block the snow and rain.
到处在滴水，没有地方可以躺了，我走上了一座天桥。
Water dripping everywhere, there is no place to lie down, I went up a flyover.
看着自己的影子，眼泪流下来。
Watching their own shadow, tears flow down.
我一个大男人，很少哭，这次真的掉了眼泪。
I am a big man, rarely cry, this time really shed tears.
那时我看着桥底下，自杀的心都有了。
I was looking under the bridge and my heart was broken.
但是我没有往下跳。
But I didn't jump.
我不能撒手，把负担留给老婆和小孩。
I can't give up and leave the burden to my wife and kids.
武汉街景尹夕远 摄5在武汉，和我一样的人有好多，但不会聚集在一起，都是东躲西藏。
Wuhan Street View Yin Xi Yuan 5 in Wuhan, and I have a lot of people, but will not gather together, are hiding.
有的像我一样，只是路过武汉，也有的是在武汉打工。
Some like me, just passing through Wuhan, also some work in Wuhan.
大家见面都不怎么说话。
People don't talk much when they meet.
从流浪开始，二十天来，我都是一个人。
I've been alone for twenty days since I started wandering.
前两天，我在黄鹤楼公园里遇到了其他几个流浪者，也算是认识了。
Two days ago, I met a few other homeless people in Yellow Crane Tower Park, and I got to know them.
之后，我跟他们一起，睡在公园旁边的地下通道，一共7个人。
Then I slept with them in an underground passage next to the park for seven people.
前天，我在路边捡了两块泡沫板垫，垫在身子底下，睡起来才好受些。
The day before yesterday, I picked up two foam pads by the side of the road and put them under my body to make me feel better.
那是我第一次在路边捡东西。
It was the first time I picked something up by the roadside.
我不想捡垃圾、翻垃圾桶，觉得不卫生，也不体面。
I do not want to pick up garbage, rummage through garbage cans, feel unsanitary, and not decent.
那天晚上，武汉下起了大雨，我把衣服盖在身上，反反复复地睡不着，冷。
That night, Wuhan began to rain heavily, I put my clothes on the body, repeatedly sleepless, cold.
雨水顺着楼梯往下流，风从人行通道两侧出口灌进来，在身上刮。
Rain ran down the stairs, and the wind poured in and blew on the bodies from the exits on both sides of the footpath.
昨天晚上，有一个志愿者给我们送了被子和帐篷，真的非常感谢他们。
Last night, a volunteer brought us quilts and tents. Thank them very much indeed.
我们几个人把帐篷布垫在底下，两床被子分着盖上，很高兴。
Several of us were happy to put the tent under the covers and the two quilts under the covers.
终于有被子睡了。
Finally a quilt fell asleep.
有人问我，要不要把他的被子借我垫在底下？我没要。
Someone asked me if I could borrow his quilt under it? I didn't ask for it.
他自己也就一床被子，借给我一床他不是更冷？还有几个志愿者给我们送吃的，一袋花生饼干，一瓶水，盒饭里有鸡肉，还有饺子。
He lent me a quilt himself, not even colder, and a few volunteers brought us a bag of peanut cookies, a bottle of water, chicken in a box of rice, and dumplings.
饭那么烫，我5分钟就吃完了。
The meal was so hot that I finished it in five minutes.
还有10个一次性口罩。
There are also 10 disposable masks.
我算着口罩两天用一个，还能撑一段时间，又怕封城太久，以后万一没有口罩，超市不让进，连吃的都买不到了。
I count two days use a mask, still can hang on for a while, afraid of sealing the city too long, in case there is no mask, supermarket will not enter, even can not buy food.
流浪久了，我没有时间概念了。
I've been wandering for a long time. I have no concept of time.
昨天人家问我年龄，我才想起来，今天是二月初五，我的生日，我都48了。
Yesterday people asked me my age, I just remembered, today is February fifth, my birthday, I have 48.
有什么愿望呢？要是面前出现一杯热水给我喝，我就满足了，心里面就热乎乎的了。
What do you want? If I get a cup of hot water in front of me, I'll be satisfied and warm in my heart.
其他的东西我不想，太渺茫了。
I don't want anything else. It's too remote.
也许是志愿者反映了这个问题，今天凌晨1点，几个穿制服的人到了地下通道，登记了我们的信息，量了体温，带走了包括我在内的4个人，其他3个人还在那里，我不清楚他们为什么没有一起走。
Perhaps it was the volunteers who reflected on the problem. At 1: 00 a.m. this morning, several men in uniform went to the underground passage, registered our information, took our temperature, took four other people, including me, with them there, and I don't know why they didn't go together.
穿制服的人把我们带到附近的酒店，住了下来。
The men in uniform took us to a nearby hotel and stayed.
酒店里有热水，我洗了个热水澡，一下子感觉轻松多了。
There was hot water in the hotel. I took a hot bath and felt much easier.
我睡了个好觉，直睡到早上11点钟才醒，太舒服了，都没有翻过身。
I slept well until eleven o'clock in the morning. I was too comfortable to turn over.
今天起床我照镜子，发现在武汉的这段时间，我的头发白了一半。
Today, I got up and looked in the mirror and saw that my hair was half white during my time in Wuhan.
酒店老板烧了饭，让我们跟他一起吃。
The landlord cooked the meal and let's have it with him.
现在我们还不清楚酒店的钱谁来付、能待到什么时候。
We don't know who will pay for the hotel and when it will stay.
没有人告诉我们这些。
No one told us that.
志愿者联系了我，问我在这里住得怎么样，让我把心情放轻松。
Volunteers contacted me, asked me how I live here, let me feel relaxed.
如果不是他们，我不知道后面怎么过。
If it weren't for them, I don't know how to get along.
这件事只要能结束，我会从头开始。
I'll start all over again as long as it ends.
我想了，要把自己扶起来，慢慢把业务捡起来，对得起家人，对得起朋友。
I think, to help themselves up, slowly pick up the business, worthy of their families, worthy of friends.
回去再难，也要面对人家，该还的钱要还，要想办法，我不能冷了别人的心。
To go back to the difficult, but also to face people, to pay back the money, to find a way, I can not cold the hearts of others.
（应受访者要求，徐强为化名）湖北省武汉市汉秀剧场的外墙打出「武汉加油」字样 尹夕远 摄。
At the request of the interviewee, Xu Qiang used the alias "Wuhan refueling" on the outside wall of the Han Xiu Theatre in Wuhan, Hubei Province.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
在武汉街头流浪。
Wandering in Wuhan.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "在武汉街头流浪";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at Wuhan.
var msg_desc = "他们钻往这座城市的各个缝隙，挖取可以维生的部分。
var msg _ desc = & quot; They drilled into every crack in the city to dig for a living.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
