方方：记录非常时期的人和事难道不是作家应该做的吗？。
Fang Fang: Is it not the writer's job to record people and events in times of emergency?
隗延章。
Kui Yanzhang.
中国新闻周刊                      。
China News Weekly.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
这里是《中国新闻周刊》掌门周刊君，影响有影响力的你。
This is the head of China News Weekly magazine, the influence of influential you.
和我一起拨开迷雾，追寻真相，守望时代。
Join me as we move through the fog, seek the truth and keep watch.
。
.
“我根本不是一个关注公共事务的人但我会关注民生和世道，关注个人的生活”(资料图片)方方。
"I am not a person concerned about public affairs at all, but I will pay attention to people's livelihood and social life," he said.
图/视觉中国作家方方：我关注民生和世道本刊记者/隗延章发于2020.3.2总第937期《中国新闻周刊》武汉封城第三天，方方开始接受《收获》主编程永新的建议，在微博上写下“封城记”的文字，很意外的是，她发现她的微博恢复了。
Kui Yanzhang 2007-9-19 19: 19 [hide] www.51education.net / Kui Yanzhang On the third day of the Wuhan Sealing Week of China's Newsweek No. 937, Fang Fang began to accept Yongxin's suggestion of main programming for Harvest and wrote "The Book of Seals" on her microblog.
方方因此广为人知，但大多数人只是知道她是一位作家，写下了“封城记”，但对于她的往事并不了解。
Fang Fang became widely known, but most people only knew that she was a writer who wrote "The Book of the Seals," but did not know anything about her.
事实上，方方作为当年“新写实主义”作家群中的干将，一直是作家中的实力派，而她近些年又以斗士的姿态向文坛上诸多暗面说不。
In fact, Fang Fang has been a force in the group of "neo-realism" writers, and in recent years she has said no to the dark side of the literary world as a fighter.
从这个角度来看，此次她在疫情中的表现顺理成章，就如她对《中国新闻周刊》所说，“把非常时期的人和事记录下来，难道不是我们当作家的人应该做的吗？”“新作和她的知识分子批判精神一脉相承”微博上，方方对现实问题勇敢发声。
From this point of view, her performance in the epidemic, as she told China News Weekly, "is it not up to us as writers to write down the people and things that are out of the ordinary?"
书斋里，她是一位现实主义作家。
She was a realistic writer in her study.
在疫情发生之前，她刚刚发表了最新的一部长篇小说《是无等等》。
Before the outbreak, she had just published her latest novel, "No more, no more."
小说的灵感来源于她听闻的一桩真实事件。
The novel was inspired by a true story she had heard.
小说中，方方将一桩凶杀案和一桩诈骗案交缠在一起，串联起四个小人物、两个大人物、两个警察的命运。
In the novel, Fang Fang combines a murder case with a fraud, combining the fate of four little people, two big men and two policemen.
小人物意外撞入大人物的生活，陷入一段冤狱，警察介入后小人物被释放，大人物却早已利用体制漏洞，诈骗一大笔钱财，远逃海外。
The big shots accidentally hit the big shots, get into a bad jail, get rid of the little ones after the police step in, but the big guy has already taken advantage of the institutional loopholes, defrauded a large amount of money and fled abroad.
方方为这部小说取过几个名字，比如《马后桃花》和《深不可测》，前者取自诗歌“马后桃花门前雪，出门争得不回头”。
Fang took several names for the novel, such as "Peach Flower After Horse," which was taken from the poem "Snow in front of the peach blossom after a horse, and won't go back."
有一次，方方去麦积山游玩，在一座石窟前，见到匾上写着“是无等等”，当即决定将其作为小说名字。
Once, Fang Fang went to Maiji Mountain to play. Before a grotto, he saw a plaque with the words "Nothing, etc." and decided to take it as the name of the novel.
“是无等等”出自《心经》，“是”指“正确的事”，“无”意为“错的事情”，等等是指“不过如此”。
"Nothing," "nothing," "nothing," "nothing," "nothing," "nothing," "nothing," "nothing," "nothing," "nothing," "nothing but"
连起来，则是：对错，得失，都不过如此。
Connect up, it is: Right, wrong, gain and loss, all of this.
这四字也启发了方方对小说结构的构想。
These four words also inspired Fang Fang's conception of the novel structure.
她将小说分为“是”、“无”、“等等”三部分，从三个视角讲述故事。
She divides the novel into "yes," "nothing," "and so on," and tells the story from three angles.
“是”的部分是最没用的人马一鸣的视角，他为陷入冤案的朋友陈亚非奔波，最终自杀。
The "yes" part is the most useless person in the perspective of a horse, he was trapped in the wrong case of friends Chen Yafei, ultimately suicide.
“无”讲述了地产商人张照酉和朋友林松坡等人，合谋编织一起诈骗案，怕事情败露，将妻子杀害，将凶杀案栽赃陈亚非，后逍遥法外。
"No" describes real estate businessman Zhang Zhaoyu and friends Lin Sonpo and others, conspire to fabricate a fraud case, afraid of betrayal, kill his wife, blame the murder on Africa and Asia, and then get away with it.
“等等”则是从警察苏卫和杨高的角度讲述破案过程，苏卫起初急于立功，刑讯逼供陈亚非，险些将案件办成错案，后在杨高介入之后，找到真正的凶手。
At first, Su Wei was eager to do something useful to extract confessions from Chen and Asia. He almost turned the case into a wrong case, and after Yang Gao intervened, he found the real murderer.
方方写作最多的题材，是关于底层生活和知识分子。
Fang Fang wrote the most about the underclass of life and intellectuals.
这类涉及警察、犯罪的题材，在方方的小说中占比不多，但她也并非没有积累。
This kind of police, crime topics, Fang Fang in the novel, but she is not without accumulation.
90年代，方方受电视剧《命案十三宗》导演高群书邀请，去石家庄的监狱采访13个杀人犯。
In the 1990s, Fang Fang was invited by Gao Qunshu, director of the TV series "Thirteen Murders," to interview 13 murderers at Shijiazhuang prison.
她也写作过《过程》《埋伏》等涉及罪案的小说。
She has also written about crimes such as The Process and The Ambush.
季亚娅是小说《是无等等》的责编，在她看来，《是无等等》与去年被媒体广泛报道的“劳荣枝案”和“操场埋尸案”构成某种文化社会学意义上的互文性，“我想这部作品的气质其实和她的知识分子批判精神一脉相承。
"Tia Yia is the novel" is nothing and so on, "in her view," is nothing and so on "and last year's widely reported" LaoRongzi case "and" playground burial case "constitute a kind of cultural-sociological intertextuality," I think the temperament of this work is consistent with her intellectual criticism.
这一次，方方对准的是90年代开始到世纪之交蓬勃生长的新自由主义资本市场之恶，很多当下问题的讨论起点，都必须回到那个年代。
This time, the Founder is targeting the neoliberal capital markets that flourished from the early 1990 "s to the turn of the century, and many of the starting points for discussion of today's problems must return to that era.
”季亚娅对《中国新闻周刊》说。
"Tiya told China News Weekly.
作家与搬运工身处疫情中心，方方的痛苦、愤怒、悲伤是具象的。
The writer and the porter are in the center of the epidemic. Fang Fang's pain, anger and sadness are typical.
她对于这座城市太熟悉了。
She is too familiar with the city.
最早爆出疫情的华南海鲜市场，她的三哥就住在附近的一个小区，如今那个小区感染人数武汉第一。
The first outbreak of the South China Seafood Market, her third brother lived in a nearby neighborhood, which now has the highest number of infections in Wuhan.
而疫情中还在举办百家宴的“百步亭”，方方曾经在那当过4年的搬运工。
And the epidemic is still holding a hundred feasts "hundred pavilions," Fang Fang had been there as a porter for four years.
如今，方方已经在武汉生活了63年。
Fang has now been living in Wuhan for 63 years.
她自己、家人、朋友、她小说里的人物，分布在这个城市的不同角落。
She herself, her family, her friends, the characters in her novels, are scattered all over the city.
以往，还能出门的日子，方方走在武汉街头，脑海里会闪过自己小说中的人物，“走到汉正街时，我会找李宝莉。
In the past, can go out of the day, Fang Fang walked in the streets of Wuhan, his mind will flash past the characters in his novels, "When I walk to Han Zhengjie, I will look for Li Po-li.
过彩虹桥时，会想到何汉晴”。
When crossing the rainbow bridge, you will think of He Hanqing.
前者是《万箭穿心》中的人物，后者是《出门寻思》里的角色。
The former is the character in "Crossing the Heart" and the latter is the character in "Going Out and Thinking."
《万箭穿心》在2012年时被改编成电影，备受赞誉，至今豆瓣评分高达8.6。
"Crossing the Heart" was made into a film in 2012 and has been acclaimed as 8.6 to date.
虽然方方被当做武汉作家的代表之一，但她并非武汉生人，而是出生于南京。
Although Fang Fang was regarded as one of the representatives of Wuhan writers, she was not born in Wuhan, but in Nanjing.
两岁那年，在水利部下游局做工程师的父亲，为了响应国家建设三峡大坝的决策，带全家溯江而上，从南京迁至武汉。
When he was two years old, his father, an engineer at the lower reaches of the Ministry of Water Resources, moved his family up the river from Nanjing to Wuhan in response to the decision to build the Three Gorges Dam.
三轮车将他们拉到一个叫刘家庙的宿舍，那里刚建起十六栋红色的楼房。
The tricycle pulled them to a dormitory called Liu Jiamiao, where 16 red buildings had just been built.
在这十六栋楼房的院子里，方方完成了最初的文学启蒙和人格教育。
In the courtyard of these 16 buildings, Fang Fang completed the initial literary enlightenment and personality education.
她父亲学工科，却热爱文学，常给她讲《唐人小说》。
Her father studied engineering, but he loved literature and often told her stories about the Tang Dynasty.
家中，最大的家规是“不准说谎”。
At home, the biggest rule of the family is "no lying."
5岁那年，方方撕了哥哥的作业本叠飞机，母亲找到她，她撒谎说不是自己做的，被母亲严厉惩罚，“从此对说谎有了心理障碍”。
At the age of five, Fang Fang tore up her brother's homework folded the plane, mother found her, she lied that she did not do it, was severely punished by her mother, "since there is a psychological barrier to lying.
方方读小学时，“文革”来临。
Fang Fang was in elementary school when the Cultural Revolution came.
父亲这期间过世，两个哥哥被下放到农村，家庭的重担压在她身上。
The father died during this time, the two brothers were sent to the countryside, the burden of the family on her.
为了养活母亲，方方在19岁时去了百步亭的一家运输合作社当搬运工，每月工资42元。
At the age of 19, Fang Fang worked as a porter in a transport cooperative in Bumpingting, earning 42 yuan a month to support his mother.
更轻松的工作也有，是去工厂做学徒，但月工资只有18元，难以养活家庭。
Easier jobs include apprenticeships at factories, but only $18 a month to support a family.
当时，她体重只有80多斤，却要扛起100多斤的大包。
At the time, she weighed only over 80 jin, but had to carry more than 100 jin of bags.
多年之后她回忆，那时领导说的最多的却是，“男女都一样”“妇女能顶半边天”。
Years later, she recalls, leaders often said "men and women alike" and "women hold half the sky."
最难捱时，她对同事说，“如果30岁，我还在这个地方，我就自杀”。
The hardest part, she said to her colleague, "If I'm still here at 30, I'll kill myself."
在百步亭当搬运工的日子，方方见识的世界，与她童年生活的院子里，那些知识分子们的生活完全不同。
The world Fang Fang saw when she was a porter at the pavilion was quite different from the life of those intellectuals in the yard of her childhood.
一次，一位同事跟她说，“今天早上，我老娘在我跟前啰嗦，我烦不过，一脚把她踹到墙角，她半天都爬不起来。
Once, a colleague said to her, "This morning, my mother in front of me verbose, I am tired, one foot kicked her into the corner, she could not get up.
”一边说，一边比划。
"Sculling as he spoke.
另一次，方方去一个同事家，见到房间只有五六平方米，房间里有一个上下铺，同事和父亲各睡一个。
Another time, Fang Fang went to a colleague's house and found only five or six square meters. In the room, there was an upper and lower berth.
一个纸盒，铺一块塑料布，就是饭桌，揭开又是衣箱。
A carton, spread a piece of plastic cloth, is the table, uncover is also the suitcase.
方方日后形容见到这一情景，有“惊吓感”。
Fang Fang later described seeing this scene, there is a "sense of shock."
那时她与同事聊，同事却态度达观，常挂在嘴边上的是“怎么办呢？只能这个样子呀”。
At that time, she chatted with her colleagues, but the attitude of their colleagues, often hanging around the mouth is "how? Only this way."
1978年，方方等来恢复高考的消息，考入武汉大学中文系。
In 1978, Fang Fang and other information to resume college entrance examination, entered Wuhan University Chinese Department.
彼时，新的世界已经开启，旧世界的痕迹却尚未褪去。
At that time, the new world had begun, but the vestiges of the old had not faded.
方方记得，那时她参加了一个名为“红枫叶”的文学社，社团里讨论最多的几个话题是：小说能不能写爱情、能不能写悲剧、社会主义国家能不能暴露阴暗面，以及，文学是不是阶级斗争的工具？方方开始了自己的写作。
Fang remembers joining a literary society called "Red Maple Leaf," in which the most discussed topics were whether novels could write about love, whether they could write tragedies, whether socialist countries could expose the dark side, and whether literature was a tool for class struggle? Fang began her own writing.
她的一篇小说，因为“调子阴暗”被毙掉了。
One of her novels was blown away because of its "dark tone."
大四那年，发表了处女作《大篷车上》，之后成为一名稿约不断的作家。
In his senior year, he published his debut novel, Caravan, and became a writer on a living manuscript.
她曾经的百步亭4年的搬运工生涯，成为她写作时常汲取的养料。
Her 4-year career as a porter in the 100-foot pavilion has been a source of nourishment for her writing.
她完成于上世纪80年代中旬的作品《风景》，被评论界称之为“拉开了新写实主义序幕”，小说中一对夫妻和9个孩子生活在只有13平方米的板棚屋里，困厄地挣扎与彼此殴斗，呆板、机械地打发着生活。
She finished "Landscape" in the mid-1980s, described by critics as "a prelude to a new realism," in which a couple and nine children live in a 13-square-metre shack, wrestling with each other and mechanically waging their lives.
这一切，像极了方方4年搬运工所见所闻的生活。
All this, like Fang Fang 4 years of porters have seen and heard of life.
知识分子熟悉方方的人都知道，其实“封城记”并不是这位作家第一次用文字记录灾难。
Intellectuals familiar with Fang Fang know that "The Book of the Seals" was not the first time the writer had written about a disaster.
1998年洪灾，方方曾去湖北嘉鱼县的堤坝等地采访。
Fang Fang visited the dyke and other places in Jiayu County, Hubei Province in 1998.
有一次，她到堤坝那一刻，水已高过堤面，全靠堤上垒起的半米沙包挡着江水。
Once, when she reached the dyke, the water rose above the embankment, blocked by half a metre of sandbags.
灾难之后，方方写作了一篇名为《把这一切都记住》的文章，文中除了表达对解放军的赞美，着重提到对灾难背后人祸的反思，在结尾她写道，“请无论如何也要记住，这场洪水是大自然给我们人类的一个愤怒的大巴掌”。
In the wake of the disaster, Fang wrote an article entitled Remember All This, which, apart from paying tribute to the PLA, highlighted her reflections on man-made disasters behind the disaster, and concluded by saying, "Please remember in any case that this flood is a great slap in the face of nature's wrath on mankind."
只不过，那时，中国还没有互联网，方方对洪灾的记录与反思，并未引起广泛的关注。
However, at that time, China did not have the Internet, Fang Fang of the flood record and reflection, did not arouse widespread concern.
在大多数人心中，那时她并非一个关注公共事务的知识分子，更多还是一个书斋中的作家，依靠虚构和想象工作。
In most people's minds, she was not an intellectual concerned with public affairs at the time, but rather a writer in her study, working on fiction and imagination.
90年代的作家方方，相比80年代，写作已经有所转变，她写作大量知识分子题材的小说。
Fang Fang, a writer in the 1990s, changed her writing in comparison with the 1980s, writing a lot of intellectual novels.
在她的笔下，知识分子的命运大多沉重、悲哀。
In her works, the fate of intellectuals is mostly heavy and sad.
在带有自传色彩的小说《祖父在父亲心中》里，毕业于京师大学堂的祖父，一生“书生一样活着，勇士一样死去”。
In the autobiographical novel "Grandfather in the Father," graduated from the grandfather of Beijing Normal University, life "like a scholar, like a warrior to die.
而到了父亲这一代，曾经“好穿白色西装”“勇敢反抗旧式婚姻”，“通晓五国语言”的父亲，最终在一场场政治运动中变得战战兢兢，懦弱无力。
In the father's generation, fathers who wore "white suits," "bravely resisted old-fashioned marriages," "knew the five languages," and finally became fearful and weak in political campaigns.
方方对《中国新闻周刊》说，“我对祖父的了解太少，他去世时，我父亲自己也才刚刚大学毕业。
"I knew too little about Grandpa. When he died, my father had just graduated from college," Fang told China News Weekly.
但我父亲则有一堆日记留了下来。
But my father had a pile of diaries left.
他从1942年开始到他死的日记，都保留着。
He kept his diary from 1942 until his death.
其实像中国很多知识分子一样，他爱国，有正义感，希望生活安静平和，爱家庭，对政治运动充满苦恼，为自己所学无处可用感到悲观。
Like many intellectuals in China, he loves his country, his sense of justice, his desire for a quiet and peaceful life, his love for his family, his unhappiness with the political movement, and his pessimism that he has nowhere to go.
尽管如此，他还是在努力地学习，希望有一天能有用处。
Nevertheless, he was studying hard, hoping that one day he would be of use.
‘文革’中，我父亲在家，除了读书就是读书。
During the Cultural Revolution, my father was at home, studying instead of reading.
他们真是悲哀的两代人。
They are really two generations of woe.
祖父是遇到战争，社会动荡，导致被日寇杀害，而父亲更多的是在政治运动中不得安宁。
Grandfather was confronted with war, social unrest, resulting in the Japanese killed, and the father is more in the political movement restless.
”由于家庭关系以及自己的见证，方方对于知识分子的观察充满真切的细节。
Fang's observation of intellectuals is replete with real details, thanks to family ties and his own testimony.
对于这个群体，她悲悯、同情又本能地审视。
She looked at this group with pity, sympathy, and instinct.
那些与方方同辈的知识分子们，在她笔下依然处境尴尬，在物欲逼迫下节节败退：《沧浪之水》中，曾经心怀士大夫理想的池大为，最终选择向权力投降；《无处遁逃》中，科研工作者严航，收入低微、老婆出轨，想要出国改变命运，却被美大使馆拒之门外。
The intellectuals of Fang Fang's generation were still in an awkward position and were forced to retreat under the weight of materialism: In "The Water of the Waves," the man who had once cherished the ideals of a scholar-bureaucrat finally surrendered to power; "No escape," in which scientific researchers sail, earn little, cheat their wives and are turned away from the US embassy.
作品之外，方方本人，却没有她笔下的知识分子身上那股或窝囊或世故的气质。
In addition to her work, Fang Fang does not have the coveted or sophisticated qualities of her intellectuals.
她个性直率、行事洒脱。
She has a forthright and easy-going personality.
某种程度上，她继承了祖辈和父辈老派知识分子原初的正直，也从当年搬运工的工友那里习得了一些朴素直接的处事之风。
To a certain extent, she inherited the original integrity of the old-fashioned intellectuals of her forefathers and fathers, and learned something simple and direct from her former porters.
她没有知识分子的酸腐和瞻前顾后，更多的像是不谙世故的爽直。
She did not have the intellectual's sour and forward-looking, more like the unsophisticated straightforward.
方方上大学时，一场诗会上，方方是唯一在场的大学生。
When Fang Fang was in college, he was the only college student present at a poetry meeting.
一位老诗人让她发言，她说“很多老诗人已经写不出诗来了，可他们还在使劲写，这是很悲哀的事。
She was asked to speak by an old poet, who said, "It is sad that many old poets have not written poetry, but they are still working hard on it.
更悲哀的是，他们不知道他们的诗已经没人读了（大意）”。
Worse still, they did not know that no one had read their poems.
日后，像这样的直言不讳，已经成为方方的标签。
In the future, outspokenness like this has become a label for Fangfang.
毕业之后，方方在湖北电视台工作。
After graduation, Fang Fang worked in Hubei TV station.
一到开会，领导就跟她说：“现在我们开会了，你就回家吧”。
Arriving at the meeting, the leader said to her, "Now we have a meeting. Go home."
“他们担心一让我发言，我就会说他们不想听的话”。
"They are afraid that when I am given the floor, I will say what they don't want to hear."
方方日后回忆。
Fang Fang later on.
方方对公共事务发声最初引起公众的广泛关注，要从2014年说起。
Fang's voice in public affairs initially attracted widespread public attention, starting in 2014.
那年5月，彼时身为湖北省作协主席的方方，发微博公开质疑诗人柳忠秧“跑奖”。
In May of that year, Fang Fang, then chairman of the Hubei Provincial Association, posted a Weibo openly questioning the poet Liu Zhongsheng's "running prize."
一年之后，方方又在微博公开质疑某诗人“跑职称”，矛头直指湖北省人社厅违规操作，让不符合晋职规定的“T诗人”顺利晋升到文科最高级别职称正高二级。
A year later, Fang openly questioned the "running title" of a poet on Weibo, pointing directly at the violations committed by the Hubei Provincial People's Association, so that "T poets" who did not meet the requirements for promotion were promoted to the highest ranks of the arts.
曾经外界闻所未闻的文坛黑幕，被方方次第揭开，一时间引发轩然大波。
Once the outside world unheard of the dark curtain of literature, by the Fangfang next opened, for a time caused a great uproar.
文学编辑季亚娅第一次见到方方，是在《十月》杂志35周年纪念会上。
Jia, the literary editor, first met Fang Fang at the 35th anniversary meeting of October magazine.
方方给她的第一印象是：短发，很精神，嗓门大，“好像是五四青年或者是延安青年穿越到了当代”。
Fang Fang gave her the first impression: short hair, very energetic, loud voice, "it is like the May 4th youth or Yenan youth traversed the contemporary."
她欣赏方方对公共事务的发言，“她是不会为长者讳为尊者讳为同路人讳这一套的，就事论事实事求是，很难说她有哪种固定不变的圈子或者派别立场”。
She appreciated Fang's remarks on public affairs. "She is not going to be afraid of her elders' taboo of being a fellow traveler.
质疑“跑奖”“跑职称”，和这次写作“封城记”，让方方在人们印象中，作为一个知识分子的形象越发鲜明。
Doubt "run the prize", "run title", and this writing "seal city story", let Fang Fang in people's impression, as an intellectual's image is more and more vivid.
但在接受采访时，方方却有意无意的，将自己与“知识分子”和“关心公共事务”的标签拉开距离。
But in the interview, Fang Fang intentionally or unwittingly, distanced itself from the labels "intellectuals" and "concern for public affairs."
她更愿意将自己发声的原因，归因于朴素的良知和正义感，“我根本不是一个关注公共事务的人。
She prefers to attribute her voice to a simple sense of conscience and justice. "I am not a man concerned with public affairs at all.
但我会关注民生和世道，关注个人的生活。
But I will pay attention to people's livelihood and the world, personal life.
”方方对《中国新闻周刊》说。
"Fang told China News Weekly.
值班编辑：冯超封面报道之一《新冠病毒——我们要付出多大代价》（由5篇报道组成）点击下图，一键下单封面报道之二《围城之战——我们如何过关》（由6篇报道组成）点击下图，一键下单封面报道之三《武汉攻坚——我们如何与疫情赛跑》（由5篇报道组成）点击下图，一键下单封面报道之四《防控之辨——我们怎样科学应对》（由6篇报道组成）点击下图，一键下单。
On-duty editor: One of Feng Chao's cover stories, New Crown Virus - How Much We Pay (composed of 5 stories), clicked on a single cover for the next two pages of "The War of the Siege - How We Pass" (composed of 6 stories).
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
方方：记录非常时期的人和事难道不是作家应该做的吗？。
Fang Fang: Is it not the writer's job to record people and events in times of emergency?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "文学";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "中国新闻周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "方方：记录非常时期的人和事难道不是作家应该做的吗？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "“我根本不是一个关注公共事务的人。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "I'm not at all a public concern.
但我会关注民生和世道，关注个人的生活”";。
But I will pay attention to livelihoods and the world, and to personal life.
var title ="中国新闻周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by China News & quot;
