我在疫区当骗子。
I was a liar in an epidemic area.
今日头条。
Headlines today.
商业人物                      。
Business people.
商业人物。
Business people.
定义中国商业力量。
Defining China's commercial power.
作者：今日头条来源：今日头条（ID：headline_tody)我是一个江苏人，在北京上班，在武汉买个房子，娶了个湖北媳妇。
I am a native of Jiangsu, working in Beijing, buying a house in Wuhan and marrying a daughter-in-law of Hubei.
我和媳妇很早前就商量好春节在两家轮流过，今年，刚好轮到去黄冈的丈母娘家。
My daughter-in-law and I discussed the Spring Festival in two families very early. This year, it was just my turn to go to Huang Gang's mother-in-law's house.
我们从北京坐Z53到武汉，再从宏碁汽车客运站转大巴到黄冈浠水县媳妇家里，已经是1月21日中午11点。
It is already 11 o'clock on January 21 at the home of my wife at Pointe County, Pointe County, from Z53 to Wuhan from Beijing and from the Acer bus stop to my wife's house.
当时，我的朋友圈里，大家对武汉疫情的讨论已经热火朝天，而在距离武汉不到100公里的浠水县城，超市里人满为患，路上戴口罩的人寥寥无几，人们并未意识到一场危机即将到来。
It is said that it is impossible to understand that a crisis is imminent since there are so many people wearing masks on the road at the supermarket in the county of Posui, which is less than 100 km from Wuhan.
此时，距离黄冈封城，不到三天。
At this time, less than three days from the Huanggang seal.
我被困在了湖北疫情最严重的区域之一，成了朋友们不断问候的“灾民”。
I was trapped in one of the worst affected areas in Hubei province and became a constant greeting from my friends.
阴差阳错，又成了中国红十字基金会字节跳动医务工作者人道救助基金的一名志愿者，问候一线医务人员，帮他们提交申请材料。
Yin and Yang, became the Chinese Red Cross Foundation byte beating medical workers humanitarian relief fund a volunteer, greeting front-line medical personnel, help them submit application materials.
通过电话，了解疫情最一线的消息，倾听医生们的叹息、无助、坚强和希望。
Through the telephone, understand the epidemic's most first line of information, listen to the doctors sigh, helplessness, strong and hope.
人生第一次被警察问询先来介绍一下我的工作。
For the first time in my life, I was first asked by the police to introduce my job.
我参与的这个基金是今日头条和抖音母公司字节跳动捐赠2亿元设立的，旨在为参与疫情防控的医务工作者提供保障。
I participate in this fund is today's headlines and the jitter parent company byte beater donation of 200 million yuan to provide protection for health workers involved in disease prevention and control.
截至目前，加上员工捐赠、其他企业捐赠等，基金总额将增至3.91亿元。
So far, the fund will increase to 391 million yuan, including donations from employees and other businesses.
感染新冠肺炎的医务人员可以获得10万元资助；不幸离世的话，医护人员家庭可以获得100万元的资助。
Medical staff infected with Newly Coronary Pneumonia are eligible for $100,000 subsidy. Families of healthcare staff will receive $1 million if they die.
申请流程非常简单。
The application process is simple.
被感染的医护人员本人、亲属或者同事，可以通过网上公布的申请链接或者申请邮箱提交材料。
Infected healthcare professionals themselves, relatives or colleagues may submit materials through an online application link or application email.
我们志愿者联系申请人核实、协助他们完善申请材料提交基金管委会审核，审核通过后便会拨款。
Our volunteers contact the applicants to verify and assist them in improving their application materials and submit them to the fund management committee for examination and approval.
每天早上，我都会拿到一份申请基金的医务人员名单，随后需要逐一电话沟通：确认是否做了核酸检测，是否确诊，申报材料是否完整等。
Every morning, I get a list of medical staff who apply to the fund, and then I have to communicate one by one by phone: to see if nucleic acid testing has been done, whether it has been confirmed, whether the declaration is complete, etc.
其实，我接到这个任务时，已经是2月3日。
In fact, it was February 3 when I was given this assignment.
项目已经运转了一个多礼拜了。
The project has been running for more than a week.
1月31日凌晨，世界卫生组织宣布，将新型冠状病毒疫情列为国际关注的突发公共卫生事件，随后西藏也确诊首例新冠肺炎病例，疫情蔓延至全国所有省区市。
In the early hours of January 31, the World Health Organization (WHO) announced that the new coronavirus outbreak had been classified as a public health emergency of international concern.
每天来申请基金的医务人员也逐渐增多。
There is also a steady increase in the number of medical staff applying daily.
最早加入的五六个志愿者已经从大年初一连续加班一周多了，他们急需支援。
The first five or six volunteers have been working overtime for more than a week since New Year's Day. They are in urgent need of support.
刚好，我自己的工作受疫情影响取消了，人又困在黄冈，便加入了。
Just in time, my own work by the impact of the epidemic cancelled, people trapped in Huanggang, then joined.
作为一个社恐的互联网人，每个月打电话不超过十分钟的我，其实十分拒绝打电话这个事情的。
As a social phobia Internet person, not more than 10 minutes a month on the phone, I really refuse to call this matter.
所以培训时问的第一个问题就是：为什么非得打电话确认呢？直接在网上提交资料审核就行了呗。
So the first question asked during the training is: Why do you have to call to confirm? Submit the information directly on the Internet to review it.
为什么非得先打一遍电话确认呢？因为很多人提交的信息不完整，可能会影响他们申请基金的成功率。
Why do you have to make a phone call to confirm? Because a lot of people submit incomplete information, which may affect their success rate in applying for the fund.
另外，还有一些人，并没感染，只是想了解一下这是个什么基金；还有一部分纯属恶作剧，比如有人留下了刘德华的名字，只想看看这是不是真的……我们的工作其实就是初步审核。
In addition, some people, not infected, just want to know what kind of fund it is; others are purely pranks, such as someone left Andy Lau's name, just to see if it's true... our job is actually a preliminary audit.
当然，即便是真正被感染的医护人员，自己亲手填了申请表，一个陌生电话打过去就要人家微信，人家可能也会觉得你是傻帽。
Of course, even if the real infected health care workers, their own hand-filled application form, a strange telephone call to ask people to micro-letter, people may think you are a fool.
这些天，我遇到过打过去不问缘由直接挂断的，电话不接短信不回的，居然，还有报警的。
These days, I have encountered the past do not ask why directly hang up, phone calls do not reply to text messages, unexpectedly, there are also police.
事情要从2月5日下午3点02分讲起。
The story begins at 3: 02 p.m. on February 5.
我给湖北省第三人民医院的护士杨童打了电话，想确认下她提交的资料。
I called Yang Tong, a nurse at the Third People's Hospital in Hubei province, to confirm the information she had submitted.
于是，产生了如下对话：－您好，我是中国红十字基金会字节跳动医务工作者人道救助基金志愿者。
I am a volunteer of the Humanitarian Aid Fund of the Chinese Red Cross Foundation for Byte Beating Medical Workers.
－你是骗子吧？－我真的是志愿者。
-Are you a liar? -I'm really a volunteer.
您还记得吗？昨天您提交了一份申请表。
Do you remember? You submitted an application form yesterday.
－没听过字节跳动，和抖音什么关系？－ 是母公司，今日头条和抖音都是字节跳动推出的产品。
No byte jitter, no chattering? -Parent company, today's headlines and jitter are byte jumps.
－ 哦。
B: Oh.
－ 根据您填的信息，想再跟您确认一下，您的核酸检测结果是阳性对吗？－ 是的。
According to the information you have filled out, would you like to confirm with you that your nucleic acid test is positive? -Yes.
似乎我的解释得到了认可。
It seems that my explanation has been approved.
我也如愿加上了她的微信（方便后续补充材料）。
I also added her message (to facilitate follow-up supplementary material) as desired.
很快，我又收到她发来的信息：“你们真的不是骗子？”我也是第一次做“骗子”，确实不知道怎么证明我的志愿者身份，只能把红基会官网的链接、媒体报道和之前基金的公示信息发了过去。
Soon, I received a message from her: "Are you really not liars?" I am also the first time "cheater", really do not know how to prove my volunteer status, can only be the Red Foundation website link, media reports and the Fund before the announcement information.
然后，没有然后了。
And then there's no And then.
（向杨童护士证明我不是骗子）我不放心，既然她确实感染了，并且也申请了，不能在我这一环就失去这次被资助的机会。
(Proves nurse Yang Tong that I'm not a liar) I'm not sure, since she did get the infection and applied for it, I can't afford to lose the chance of being sponsored at my place.
我又找了她同家医院的护士，希望能帮我证实一下身份。
I went to her hospital nurse again, hoping to confirm my identity.
只可惜，她们不认识。
Unfortunately, they don't know each other.
（后来证实，她们彼此认识，只是另一位护士也不信任我。
(It turned out that they knew each other, but the other nurse didn't trust me either.
）2月6日晚11点11分。
) 11: 11 p.m. 6 February.
三十多岁的我，第一次接到了警察的电话。
I first got a call from the police in my thirties.
一个来自武汉的严肃的声音：“您好，我这里是武汉XX区派出所的（没听清，我都准备睡觉了），这边有个医生报警，说你是什么基金的志愿者，你们这是什么基金？”我解释了一通。
"A serious voice from Wuhan:" Hello, I am here in XX district of Wuhan police station (do not hear clearly, I am ready to sleep), here a doctor called the police, said you are what fund volunteers, you are what fund? "I explained.
最后警察说，他知道了，他会核实，可能还会再找我，希望我电话保持畅通。
At last the policeman said that he knew, that he would check, that he would probably call me again, and that I would keep my phone open.
挂了电话，媳妇和我开玩笑说，什么人报的警？你这好人做成骗子了，要不是躲在黄冈乡下，警察估计直接来把你带走了。
When I hung up the phone, my daughter-in-law joked with me, What kind of a police officer? You good guy is a liar. If you hadn't been hiding in the Huanggang countryside, the police would have come straight away.
第二天，警察没来，电话也没来，最有报警嫌疑的杨童来找我了。
The next day, the police did not come, the phone did not come, the most suspect Yang Tong came to me.
她1月25日确诊，当时已经重症隔离治疗两周了。
She was diagnosed on 25 January, two weeks after intensive isolation.
她承认是她报的警。
She admitted that she had called the police.
当然，我还是“不计前嫌”帮她提交了材料。
I did, of course, "let bygones be bygones" for her.
她和同事们后来也都拿到了资助。
She and her colleagues later received financial support.
其实我也理解这种不信任的状态吧。
In fact, I also understand the state of distrust.
这场疫情是一场国难，有人在前线奋战，有人在后方发国难财。
The epidemic is a national tragedy, with some fighting on the front lines and others struggling to make money in the rear.
医生和护士面对芜杂的信息，有人要给他们资助，有人要给他们买保险，也有拿着噱头的骗子……换谁都会不知所措，质疑、报警、采取特殊办法，不过都是想自我保护。
Doctors and nurses are faced with the messy message that someone will give them financial support, someone will buy insurance for them, and some will cheat with gimmicks... everyone will be at a loss, questioning, calling the police, taking special measures, but trying to protect themselves.
我见过有医生可能被骚扰电话打烦了，电话打过去，没等我开口，我就遭遇了一连串反问：“哪个单位的？工号是多少？一天到晚打不累啊。
I've seen doctors get bored by harassing phone calls, and before I could say anything, I was confronted by a barrage of rhetorical questions: "Which unit? What's the number? I'm not tired all day long."
”有医生直接在朋友圈写下：从住院开始到现在，每天接到的电话都是三个问题：“你是xx吗？”“你查过核酸了吗？”“你现在的家庭住址是哪里？”还有人质疑，我们基金的申请邮箱后缀是crcf.org.cn（实际上是红基会官网域名），“骗子的服务器一般都在国外。
One doctor wrote directly to friends: "From the time of hospitalization until now, the phone calls received each day were three questions:" Are you xx? "" Have you checked nucleic acid? "" What's your home address now? "Others question that our fund's application mailbox suffix is crcf.org.cn (actually the official website domain name of UNICEF).
”还有一个医院的护士，拉了他们科室五个人一起来找我。
"There was also a hospital nurse who pulled five people from their department to come looking for me.
她的一些同事此前已经有其他志愿者在对接了。
Some of her colleagues had already had other volunteers docking.
我问，为什么非要都来找我。
I asked why it was so important to come to me.
答案让我哭笑不得：他们几个同事达成共识，就找一个志愿者提交资料，要是被骗了，可以让警察集中精力抓这一个人。
The answer made me laugh and cry: several of their colleagues agreed to ask a volunteer to submit information that would allow the police to concentrate on the individual if they were deceived.
信任是可以被消耗的，但也可以累积的。
Trust can be consumed, but it can also be accumulated.
我只能做好我的份内事，让更多的医生护士信任我，我再去帮助更多他们的同事。
I can only do my part, let more doctors and nurses trust me, and I will help more of their colleagues.
最难的一关，盖章过了医护自己这道关，还有一道印章关。
The most difficult level, the seal over the medical care of their own pass, there is a seal clearance.
其实，基金的申请资料很简单。
In fact, the Fund's application information is very simple.
就三项：申请书、身份证复印件和确诊证明材料。
In respect of three: applications, copies of identity cards and supporting documents for diagnosis.
身份证复印件都是现成的，确诊证明材料可以是核酸检测结果、肺部CT检查结果或者医院的诊断证明，也比较简单。
Photocopies of identity cards are readily available, and the diagnostic materials can be nucleic acid tests, pulmonary CT findings or hospital diagnostic tests.
最难的是申请书，为了确认医务人员确实是在疫情防控一线工作中被感染，需要医院盖章确认。
The hardest part was the application, which needed to be stamped by the hospital to confirm that the staff had indeed been infected in front-line work.
这个章难倒了不少人。
This chapter has failed quite a few people.
尤其是武汉疫情比较严重的几家医院。
Wuhan especially the more serious outbreak of several hospitals.
比如一直备受关注的武汉A医院和B医院，因为他们是最早一批被武汉市卫健委确定为发热患者定点诊疗医院的。
For example, Wuhan A Hospital and B Hospital, which have been attracting much attention, because they are the first batch of Wuhan Health Commission determined as the fever patients designated diagnosis and treatment hospital.
因为处在一线，前期又医疗物资缺乏，防护不到位，出现了大量医务人员感染的情况，所以申报资助的人也很多。
Because of the first line, the lack of pre-medical supplies, inadequate protection, the emergence of a large number of cases of infection by medical personnel, so the number of people who declare financial support is also high.
（电脑里存满了医务人员的申报资料）就在我们公示了几批之后，A医院的医生联系我们，说医院压力比较大，不给盖章了。
(The computer is full of medical filings) Just after we made the rounds, the doctors at A Hospital contacted us and said the hospital was under a lot of pressure and would not be stamped.
同样的，B医院一开始就卡着盖章，武汉封城一两个礼拜之后才松口。
Similarly, hospital B was initially stamped, and Wuhan closed the city for a week or two before loosening its grip.
从这场疫情有苗头开始，医院好像就变成了某些机构羞于启齿的伤疤。
From the beginning of the epidemic, the hospital seemed to have become a scar that some institutions were ashamed to reveal.
医护人员被感染的数字迟迟不愿对外公布。
The number of infected health-care workers has been slow to come out.
也能理解，这个数字大了，被公开不好看，就只能遮遮掩掩。
Also can understand, this number is big, be published not good-looking, can only cover up.
其实，我觉得，在这场战役中，医务人员被感染，是医院防护不到位，是不幸，但也是他们救死扶伤的功勋章。
In fact, I think, in this battle, the medical staff was infected, is the hospital protection is not in place, is unfortunate, but they are also the medal for saving lives and injuries.
遗憾的是，这种荣耀和勋章，抵不过一枚印章。
Unfortunately, this honor and decoration is not worth a seal.
直到2月13日，湖北、武汉双双“换将”；而后，全国医务人员的感染情况被披露。
Until February 13, Hubei, Wuhan "swap generals"; then, the national medical staff infection was disclosed.
这时候，医务人员感染似乎才变得不那么敏感，医院的章也好盖了。
At this point, the infection of medical staff seems to become less sensitive, the hospital chapter is also covered.
而此时，全国已经有3019名医务人员感染新型冠状病毒。
By this time, 3019 medical personnel had been infected with the new coronavirus.
暴哭的姑娘、不要资助的大叔和我的牵挂这些天，也留下了一些温暖的片段。
Crying girls, unfunded uncle and my care these days, also left some warm fragments.
武汉市第七医院的一个叫田梓的护士，在聊天时跟我说，当时疫情发展迅速，爸爸坚决不让她上一线。
Tian Zi, a nurse at Wuhan's Seventh Hospital, told me during the conversation that her father was determined not to let her on the front line because of the rapid development of the epidemic.
但她没听，后来确诊感染。
But she did not listen, and later confirmed the infection.
打电话通知父母这个消息时，妈妈告诉她，爸爸眼睛红了。
When she called her parents to tell her about the news, Mom told her Dad's eyes were red.
这个22岁的年轻姑娘突然暴哭，22年了，她重新确认了爸爸对她的爱：“以前觉得爸爸更爱弟弟，原来我也是他的宝贝。
The 22-year-old girl burst into tears and, 22 years later, reaffirmed her father's love for her: "I used to think my dad loved my brother more than I was his baby.
”（田梓目前仍在医院接受治疗）还有一位徐医生。
"(Tian Zi is still in hospital for treatment) and a doctor Xu.
我在电话中和他确认了基本信息后，他问我，收款的银行账号是否可以填医院的账号。
After I confirmed the basic information with him on the phone, he asked me if the bank account number I had collected could fill in the hospital account number.
我以为之前被当成骗子的戏码又要上演了，正想解释，这个基金是针对医护人员个人的资助。
I thought the drama that had been treated as a liar was about to be staged again, and I was trying to explain that the fund was aimed at individual healthcare professionals.
没等我开口，徐医生说：“我是想申请到了以后，把这笔钱捐给我们医院。
Before I could speak, Dr. Xu said, "I would like to donate this money to our hospital when I get here.
我不想让人知道是我，您看是否可以？如果不行，我就不申请了。
I don't want anyone to know it's me, do you think? If not, I won't apply.
”那一刻，我觉得我在仰望他。
"At that moment I felt I was looking up to him.
2月23日，我接连看到武汉29岁女医生夏思思和湖北孝感黄文军医生因新冠肺炎离世的消息。
February 23, I continued to see Wuhan 29-year-old female doctor Xia Sisisi and Hubei Xiaotiao Huang Wenjun died of the new crown pneumonia.
我又想到我联系过的那些医生，他们现在怎么样了？有两位医生，他们的声音，我一直记得。
I thought again of the doctors I had contacted, how they were doing? There were two doctors, whose voices I remember all along.
一位声音听起来有些苍老。
One voice sounded a little old.
苍老，可能在她作为医生时，代表着经验丰富医术高明，但作为新冠肺炎患者时，却让我担心。
She may have represented her skill as a doctor, but as a New Crown Pneumonia patient, it worried me.
这位段医生连微信都不会操作，申请资料最后还是让科室里一位年轻人帮忙的（因为种种原因，申请材料到现在也没交全）。
The doctor couldn't even handle the letter, and the application was eventually handed over to a young man in the department. (For a variety of reasons, the file hasn't been handed in yet).
还有一位四十来岁的医生。
And a doctor in his forties.
电话那头，他嗓子里传出的声音就像拉风箱，感觉呼吸非常不顺畅，说不了几个字就忍不住咳嗽。
At the other end of the line, his voice sounded like a bellows, and he could hardly breathe, and coughed in a few words.
我不忍心让他继续说话，只能通过打字沟通。
I can't bear to let him go on talking, I can only communicate by typing.
基金资助他后，我也没有再去打扰他。
I haven't bothered him since the fund helped him.
但我永远忘不了他那无法用形容词形容的声音。
But I'll never forget his voice that can't be described as adjective.
他应该已经康复了吧。
He ought to have recovered.
分裂感我联系的医生中，除了武汉一些医院的，也有很多来自黄冈。
Divide the feeling of division among the doctors I contacted, in addition to Wuhan some hospitals, there are also many from Huanggang.
相比武汉的医生，和黄冈的医生沟通，就更容易一些。
It is easier to communicate with the doctor in Huanggang than in Wuhan.
因为我人就在黄冈，可以发位置定位给他们，会和他们聊黄冈的疫情和防护。
Because I am in Huanggang, can send location to them, will talk with them about the situation and protection of Huanggang.
作为一个在北京工作的互联网人，我大部分信息获取都在网络上，21日回到黄冈后，我一直有种不真实的分裂感。
As an Internet worker in Beijing, I get most of my information on the Internet. When I returned to Huanggang on the 21st, I felt an unreal sense of division.
一边是网上汹涌的疫情信息，我朋友圈里那些在北京、上海、苏州的朋友，质疑相关部门疫情防控不力，疯狂囤口罩、消毒液。
On one side is the epidemic information on the Internet, my friends in Beijing, Shanghai, Suzhou, questioned the lack of effective disease prevention and control departments, crazy hoarding masks, disinfectant.
当我关掉朋友圈，站在黄冈下面的小县城里，街边纽百伦鞋店里公放着刘德华的《恭喜发财》，隔壁杰克琼斯服装店播着卓依婷的《财神来到我家门》……1月22日，我们打车带一家人回乡下老屋过年时，没戴口罩的女司机还咕哝了一句：“不是有传染病了吗？这路上怎么还这么多人？”印象中，直到2月3日，农村这边才开始重视疫情防控工作。
When I shut down my circle of friends and stood in the small county town below Huanggang, Liu Dehua's "Greet the Gifts" was in the street. Jack Jones next door grunted, "Isn't there an epidemic? Why are there so many people on the road?" The impression is that on February 3, the rural side began to pay attention to the epidemic prevention and control.
而截至这天，湖北省累计报告新冠肺炎病例已经有13522例，其中黄冈市就有1422例，疫情严重程度仅次于武汉。
By that date, 13,522 cases of new crown pneumonia had been reported in Hubei Province, including 1,422 in Huanggang, the second worst case after Wuhan.
这天，我们收到了一份《致外出返乡父老乡亲的一封信》和一支体温计；之后的几天，村里陆续来家里消毒、登记外来人员；县城里的社区也打来了多个核查电话；我们在武汉的房子所在的社区、物业、公安以及行政中心智能助理等也打来了核查、提醒的电话……（村里发给每家的宣传页和体温计）我们从武汉回到村里的第14天，武汉封城的第12天，这种分裂感终于消失了——乡亲们也开始关心每天更新的疫情数字，担心隔壁邻居家门口停的鄂A牌照的车，想尽各种办法囤积生活物品，也期待着这场疫情早点过去，回归正常生活……一天，我在朋友圈里看到一位护士发了一条抖音。
On this day, we received a letter to our relatives back home and a thermometer. In the following days, the village came to disinfect and register the foreign residents.
视频里的她躺在病床上，配文：“待到春暖花开，我们一起相约武汉看樱花。
Video of her lying on the bed, dub: "stay until the spring flowers, we meet Wuhan to see cherry blossoms.
”最近几天，湖北新冠肺炎新增确诊病例数持续在下降，全国多个省区市确诊病例连续多日零新增。
In recent days, the number of newly confirmed cases of pneumonia in Hubei province has been declining, with many provinces and municipalities across the country reporting zero new cases.
天也渐渐暖了，相信在武汉樱花繁盛的时节之前，疫情一定可以结束。
It is also gradually warm, I believe in Wuhan cherry blossom season before the end of the epidemic is sure to end.
有志愿者跟我说，接触和回访多了，就会发现我们的医生护士们特别可爱可敬。
Volunteers told me that contact and return visits, we will find that our doctors and nurses are particularly lovely and respectable.
是啊。
B: Yes.
阴霾和病毒都会过去，这些可爱可敬的人会一直在。
The haze and the virus will pass, and these lovely and honorable people will always be there.
（为保护基金受助人隐私，文中医务工作者均为化名。
(To protect the privacy of Fund recipients, all medical workers are pseudonyms.
）推荐阅读严正声明：“商业人物”所有原创文章，转载均须获授权。
All original articles and reprints of "business people" must be authorized.
一切形式非法转载，包括但不限于盗转、未获“商业人物”授权通过第三方转载行为，均属侵权行为，“商业人物”将公布“黑名单”并追究法律责任。
All forms of illegal reproduction, including, but not limited to, theft and unauthorized reprinting by a third party without the authorization of a "business person," who will publish the "blacklist" and will be held liable.
“商业人物”只愿与尊重知识产权的机构合作。
"Business people" are willing to cooperate only with institutions that respect intellectual property rights.
投稿、约访、合作，联系邮箱：bizleaders@qq.com添加微信biz-leader，获转载授权或邀您加入商友群微信名：商业人物微信ID：biz-leaders1.长按右侧二维码即可关注。
Subscriptions, interviews, collaborations, contact mailboxes: bizleaders @ qq.com, get permission to reprint, or invite you to join the microphone group of business people: micro-ID: biz-leaders1. Click on the two-dimensional code on the right.
2.期待您置顶与星标。
2. Expect you to place your top and star.
欢迎分享与评论，欢迎通过留言或私信方式给我们提供选题线索。
Welcome to share and comment, welcome to leave a message or private letter to us to provide clues to the topic.
3.点击“阅读原文”，看商业人物官网，获取更多精彩内容。
3. Click on "Read the original text" to see the official website of business people, to get more wonderful content.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
我在疫区当骗子。
I was a liar in an epidemic area.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "商业人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
var msg_title = "我在疫区当骗子";。
var msg _ title = & quot; I & quot; & quot; & quot; at & quot; in affected areas.
var msg_desc = "阴霾和病毒都会过去。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; both haze and virus will pass.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '航空公司自救30天',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & &; & &; & & &;; & &; & & &;; & &; & & &;; &; &; & &; & &; &; & &; & &; & & &;.
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '8名高管、20多名员工滞留湖北，一家温州工厂的艰难复工',。
& # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '生活正在起变化',。
A: Life is changing & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & & quot; &.
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="商业人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
