世卫组织上调疫情全球风险级别，比尔·盖茨：新冠肺炎可能成为百年不遇的大流行病。
WHO Raises Global Risk Level for Outbreak, Bill Gates: New Crown Pneumonia could become a once-in-a-century pandemic.
杨大可。
Yang Dacke.
DeepTech深科技                      。
Deep Technology DeepTech.
DeepTech深科技。
Deep Technology DeepTech.
DeepTech是一家关注新兴科技产业化的全链条内容、服务、数据和投融资平台，致力于构建一个全球科技创新合作网络。
DeepTech is a whole chain of content, services, data, and investment and financing platforms that focus on the industrialization of emerging technologies, and is committed to building a global science, technology, and innovation collaborative network.
。
.
日内瓦时间 2 月 28 日，世界卫生组织总干事谭德塞在媒体例行会上宣布，WHO 将新冠肺炎疫情的全球风险级别从“高风险”提高至“非常高”。
The World Health Organization (WHO) raised the global risk of the outbreak of pneumonia from "high risk" to "very high," the director-general of the World Health Organization (WHO) said at a regular press conference.
谭德塞表示，这是因为目前新冠肺炎疫情在全球多个国家蔓延，中国境外已有超过 4,300 例确诊病患，并且仍有越来越多的国家出现疫情，所以提高全球风险级别。
This is because the outbreak is spreading in many countries around the world, with more than 4,300 confirmed cases outside China and an increasing number of countries still experiencing outbreaks, raising global risk levels, he said.
在更早的媒体会上，谭德塞就已经表态：全球疫情防控进入“决定性时刻”。
Earlier in the press conference, Tandesse has said: the global epidemic into the "decisive moment."
世卫组织呼吁每个国家都必须为所有可能发生的情况做好准备，任何国家都不应抱有本国不会出现病例的侥幸心理。
WHO calls on every country to be prepared for all eventualities, and no country should be left to chance in its own country.
目前新型冠状病毒是否已达到“大流行”的程度，也是公众关心的话题。
Whether the new coronavirus has reached the level of "pandemic" is also a topic of public concern.
实际上，世卫组织在决定使用 "大流行" 一词来描述某一流行病时，并不代表警戒程度的变化，而是取决于对病毒的地理传播、所引起疾病的严重程度，以及其对整个社会的影响的持续评估。
Indeed, when WHO decided to use the word & quot; pandemic / quot; to describe an epidemic, it does not represent a change in alert levels, but depends on a continuing assessment of the geographical spread of the virus, the severity of the disease it causes, and its impact on society as a whole.
谭德塞也表示：我们应该做好其可能发展为全球流行病的准备。
We should be prepared for what could turn out to be a global epidemic, said Mr Tanner.
但关键问题并不是该关注使用什么词来描述疫情，使用“大流行”与否，不会干扰疫情的任何一次感染，也不会有助于拯救任何人的生命。
But the key question is not what words should be used to describe the epidemic, and whether to use a pandemic or not will not interfere with any infection of the epidemic or help save anyone's life.
现在是所有国家、社区、家庭和个人集中精力做好准备的时候。
It is time for all nations, communities, families and individuals to focus on preparing themselves.
图 | 世卫组织转发联合国的社交媒体动态：“现在不是恐慌之时，是做好准备的时候。
WHO relays the social media dynamic at the United Nations: "This is not a time of panic, it is time to be ready.
”（来源：Twitter）不过，在比尔·盖茨看来，新冠病毒可能是百年一遇的“大流行”疫情。
(Source: Twitter) But for Bill Gates, the new crown virus could be a once-in-a-century pandemic.
也是 2 月 28 日，他在《新英格兰医学杂志》（NEJM）上发表观点类文章：“应对 Covid-19 ——百年一遇的流行病？”面对正在全面蔓延的疫情，比尔·盖茨认为，世界领袖都承担着重要责任：既要加速创新研发，拯救更多生命，也要联合起来，从长远改善全球大流行病应对机制。
Also on Feb. 28, he published an opinion piece in the New England Journal of Medicine: "Coping with Covid-19 - A Hundred Years of Epidemic?" In the face of a full-blown epidemic, Bill Gates believes that world leaders have an important responsibility: to accelerate innovation and research to save more lives, and to join forces to improve global pandemic response mechanisms in the long run.
他表示，不论面对任何危机，领导人始终肩负两个同样重要的职责：一是解决眼前的问题，二则是防止问题再次发生。
In the face of any crisis, he said, leaders always had two equally important responsibilities: to address immediate problems and to prevent them from happening again.
新冠肺炎疫情就是一个有力的证明。
The outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia is a telling example.
我们不仅需要拯救生命，也要从整体上改善应对疫情爆发的方式。
We need not only to save lives, but also to improve the way we respond to outbreaks as a whole.
前者更加紧迫，而后者从长远来看至关重要。
The former is more urgent, while the latter is crucial in the long run.
文中还提及，比尔及梅琳达·盖茨基金会在近年来始终关注着如何让世界提高疫情应对能力，已经投入大量的资源，帮助世界做好应对此类疫情的准备。
The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, which has focused on how to improve the world's response to the epidemic in recent years, has invested significant resources to help prepare the world for such an epidemic.
而眼下的疫情危机，比尔·盖茨希望情况不会发展得更为糟糕，但人们应该做好充分准备。
In the current crisis, Bill Gates hopes things won't get any worse, but people should be well prepared.
新冠肺炎的威胁主要基于两点原因：一方面，除了已有健康问题的老年人之外，新冠肺炎还会造成健康的成年人死亡。
The new crown pneumonia threat is based on two factors: on the one hand, it can kill healthy adults, in addition to older people with existing health problems.
据目前数据显示，新型冠状肺炎的病死率在 1% 左右，而这一数据介于 1957 年大流感（病死率 0.6%）和 1918 年大流感（病死率 2%）之间，说明它比典型的季节性流感要严重数倍。
The death rate for the new form of coronary pneumonia is about 1 percent, according to current data, between the 1957 pandemic (0.6 percent fatality rate) and the 1918 pandemic (2 percent fatality rate), suggesting it is several times more severe than a typical seasonal flu.
另一方面，此次新冠病毒的传播力很强。
On the other hand, the new crown virus has a strong transmission.
平均每个感染者会传染 2~3 人，形成指数级增长。
On average, each infected person infects two to three people, resulting in exponential growth.
并且已有确切证据表明，它可以通过轻症甚至无症状的患者传播。
And there is clear evidence that it can spread through mild or even asymptomatic patients.
这意味着，新冠肺炎将比中东呼吸综合征（MERS）和非典型性肺炎（SARS）更难控制，因为 MERS 和 SARS 只通过有症状患者传播，且传播力低很多。
This means that Crowne Pneumonia will be more difficult to control than Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), as MERS and SARS are spread only through symptomatic patients and with much lower transmission.
图 | 比尔·盖茨在社交媒体上表示，新冠病毒可能是百年一遇的“大流行”疫情，但好消息是，我们现在可以采取一些措施来减缓其影响，并帮助我们在下一次大流行到来时更有效地作出反应；随后也放上了这篇文章的链接（来源：Twitter）比尔·盖茨在文中强调：各个国家和地方政府，以及公共卫生机构应该在未来几周内采取行动，以便控制新冠疫情的传播。
Bill Gates said on social media that the new crown virus could be a once-in-a-century pandemic, but the good news is that we can now do something to mitigate its impact and help us respond more effectively when the next pandemic arrives.
并且，在保护好本国公民之外，有能力的国家政府应该帮助中低收入国家做好应对疫情的准备。
And, beyond protecting their citizens, governments in a position to do so should help prepare low- and middle-income countries for the epidemic.
“很多中低收入国家的卫生系统本已相当薄弱，而新型冠状病毒会很快让他们不堪重负。
"Health systems in many low- and middle-income countries are already weak, and the new coronavirus will soon overwhelm them."
此外，鉴于更富裕国家自然会将本国国民的利益放在首位，相对贫困的国家就会更加缺乏政治和经济上的资本来获取支持。
Moreover, given that richer countries naturally put the interests of their own nationals first, poorer countries would have less political and economic capital to support them.
”他说道，“通过帮助非洲和南亚的国家做好准备，我们不仅可以拯救生命，同时还能减缓病毒的全球扩散。
"By preparing countries in Africa and South Asia, we can not only save lives but also slow the global spread of the virus," he said.
”同时，他还呼吁要加快针对新冠肺炎的治疗和疫苗开发工作。
He also called for accelerated treatment and vaccine development for new crown pneumonia.
对于上述问题，比尔·盖茨已通过比尔及梅琳达·盖茨基金会投入众多大量资金，将投入最高 1 亿美元支持全球应对新冠肺炎疫情，其中很大一部分将用于支持中低收入国家。
In response, Bill Gates, through the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, has invested large sums of money, up to $100 million, to support the global response to the new crown pneumonia epidemic, with a significant portion going to support low- and middle-income countries.
而由惠康信托基金会和比尔与美琳达·盖茨基金会支持下成立的，流行病防范创新联盟（CEPI），作为一个旨在通过加速疫苗研发防控流行病的组织，现已在准备将八种具有前景的候选疫苗投入临床试验。
And the Alliance for Epidemic Prevention Innovation (CEPI), established with the support of the Wellcome Trust and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, is now preparing eight promising candidate vaccines for clinical trials as an organization aimed at accelerating vaccine development and control of epidemics.
如果这些疫苗中的一个或多个在动物模型中被证明安全有效，它们最早在六月便可以进入大规模临床试验。
If one or more of these vaccines prove to be safe and effective in animal models, they could enter large-scale clinical trials as early as June.
在比尔·盖茨写完针对此次疫情的看法与建议后，宏观层面就系统性问题也给出了看法，表示仍需做出调整，确保更高效地应对下一次大流行病疫情。
After Bill Gates wrote his views and recommendations on the epidemic, the macro-level gave its views on systemic issues, saying that adjustments were still needed to ensure a more efficient response to the next pandemic.
比如，帮助中低收入国家加强其卫生保健系统；建立一个世界性的病例数据库，并要求各国分享信息；还应建立一个可以快速开发安全、有效的疫苗和抗病毒药物的系统，以保证可快速通过审批，并实现量产。
For example, helping low- and middle-income countries to strengthen their health-care systems; establishing a worldwide database of cases and requiring States to share information; and establishing a system that would allow the rapid development of safe and effective vaccines and antiviral drugs to ensure rapid approval and mass production.
除了上述技术解决方案之外，他表示，改变还需要外交方面的努力，开发抗病毒药物和疫苗涉及大量跨越国界的临床试验和授权协议，应推动国际合作和数据共享。
In addition to the above-mentioned technical solutions, he said that change also required diplomatic efforts, that the development of antiviral drugs and vaccines involved extensive clinical trials and licensing agreements across national borders, and that international cooperation and data-sharing should be promoted.
“我们应该通过全球平台来推动各方针对有前景的候选疫苗和抗病毒药物在研究重点和试验方案等方面快速达成共识。
"We should work through a global platform to promote rapid consensus on promising candidate vaccines and antiviral drugs in terms of research priorities and pilot programmes."
”比尔·盖茨说道。
'said Bill Gates.
图 | 比尔及梅琳达·盖茨基金会在过去 20 年中 538 亿美元的捐款比例（来源：Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation）诚然，所有建议都离不开资金问题。
The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation has contributed $53.8 billion over the past 20 years (source: Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation).
他表示，政府需要投入资金，是因为大流行病相关产品是非常高风险的投资，公共资金有助于将药企的风险最小化，从而确保他们得以全身心投入工作。
He said that the Government needed to invest because pandemic-related products were very high-risk investments and that public funding helped to minimize the risks to pharmaceutical companies and thus ensure that they were fully engaged in their work.
而且考虑到疫情可能带来的经济损失，即便抗击“大流行”病的投资不是一笔小数目，但想要解决问题，这是必须的投资。
And, given the potential economic costs of the epidemic, even if investment in fighting pandemic disease is not a small amount, it is a necessary investment to address the problem.
最后，他强调：政府和行业需要达成协议，即“在大流行病期间，疫苗和抗病毒药物不能简单地卖给出价最高的买家，而应该让身处疫情中心及最有需要的人们以可负担的价格买到。
Finally, he stressed the need for Governments and industry to agree that "during a pandemic, vaccines and antiviral drugs cannot simply be sold to the highest bidder, but should be available at affordable prices to those at the centre of the epidemic and those most in need."
”这不仅是正确的做法，也是阻断传播和防止疫情继续蔓延的正确策略。
This is not only the right approach, but the right strategy to stop transmission and prevent the epidemic from spreading.
在疫情不断扩散之时，美国总统特朗普却在 28 日的保守派政治行动会议（Conservative Political Action Conference, CPAC 是一年一度的政治保守派活动人士参加的会议，从全美民选官员）中表示：当下对新型冠状病毒疫情传播的担忧是“新的骗局”，同时对集会的人群报出了一个低于美国统计确诊人数的感染病患数据。
At a time when the epidemic is spreading, US President Trump said in his annual Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC), an annual meeting of political conservative activists from across the United States, that current concerns about the spread of the new coronavirus epidemic are a "new scam," while giving the rally a lower number of infected patients than the US statistics confirm.
这番演讲在社交媒体上引发了众多美国人的吐槽，特朗普对公关卫生问题不重视态度引发了网友的不满。
Trump's lack of attention to public-relations health issues sparked outrage on social media, which sparked a spat among many Americans.
早前在 2 月中旬特朗普向国会提交的 2021 年预算提案中，首先就提出将美国国立卫生研究院（National Institutes of Health，NIH）的财政削减 7 %（29.42 亿美元），总额下降至 369.65 亿美元。
Earlier, in his 2021 budget proposal to Congress in mid-February, Trump first proposed a 7% fiscal cut ($2.942 billion) to the National Institutes of Health (NIH), bringing the total to $36,965 million.
当时美国的生物医学研究团体便纷纷表示，对该预算提案感到十分沮丧。
At the time, the biomedical research community in the United States expressed frustration with the budget proposal.
美国医学院协会首席科学官罗斯·麦金尼更是在社交媒体表态，称“这对美国的生物医学研究将是毁灭性的打击。
Rose McGinny, chief science officer of the American Medical Association, went on to say in social media that "it would be a devastating blow to biomedical research in the United States.
”图 | 社交媒体上美国民众吐槽特朗普关于新型冠状病毒是“骗局”的言论（来源：Twitter）据《华盛顿邮报》刚刚的报道称，继美国加利福尼亚出现两例感染途径不明病例后，俄勒冈州也首次出现了一位感染途径不明新冠肺炎患者，该州卫生部门官员称，患者来自华盛顿县，没有去过疫情发生地，也没有和已知新冠肺炎病人接触过。
US citizens spit on social media Trump's claim that the new coronavirus is a "scam," according to a new Washington Post report that Oregon also saw the first case of an unidentified crowbar pneumonia in the US state of California, where health officials say the patient came from Washington County, has not been to the site of the outbreak or been in contact with known patients with coronary pneumonia.
新冠肺炎疫情目前正持续在全球范围内蔓延，希望各国政府能够听从世卫组织的呼吁，借鉴比尔·盖茨的有关建议，将这次极可能是“大流行”病的肺炎疫情控制住。
It is hoped that governments will heed the WHO's call and heed the advice of Bill Gates to bring under control the pneumonia epidemic, which is most likely a pandemic.
正如比尔·盖茨在前述文章结尾处的提醒：“全球领导人应当立即行动，刻不容缓。
As Bill Gates reminded us at the end of the article: "Global leaders should act now and urgently.
”-End-参考：https://www.gatesnotes.com/Health/How-to-respond-to-COVID-19?WT.mc_id=20200228175011_COVID19_BG-TW&WT.tsrc=BGTW&linkId=83234892https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMp2003762。
- End-Ref: https: / / www.gatesnotes.com / Health / How-to-response-to-COVID-19? WT.mc _ id = 20200228175011 _ COVID19 _ BG-TW & ampp; WT.tsrc = BGTW & ampps; linkId = 83234892https: / / www.nejm.org / doi / full / 10.1056 / NEJMp2003762.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
世卫组织上调疫情全球风险级别，比尔·盖茨：新冠肺炎可能成为百年不遇的大流行病。
WHO Raises Global Risk Level for Outbreak, Bill Gates: New Crown Pneumonia could become a once-in-a-century pandemic.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "科技互联网";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & T & T & T;;
var nickname = "DeepTech深科技";。
var nickname = & quot; DeepTech & quot;;
var msg_title = "世卫组织上调疫情全球风险级别，比尔·盖茨：新冠肺炎可能成为百年不遇的大流行病";。
var msg _ title = & quot; WHO upgraded its global risk level to include Bill Gates: New Crown Pneumonia may have been a once-in-a-century pandemic & quot;;
var msg_desc = "WHO 将新冠肺炎疫情的全球风险级别从“高风险”提高至“非常高”，比尔·盖茨给出建议。
var msg _ desc = & quot; WHO raised the global risk level for the new crown pneumonia epidemic from "high risk" to "very high," according to Bill Gates.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="DeepTech深科技";。
var title = & quot; DeepTech & quot;;
