直面史上最难春招：我的简历无处可去。
Face the worst thing in history: My resume has nowhere to go.
杨洁。
Yang Jie.
锌财经                      。
Zinc Finance.
锌财经。
Zinc Finance.
新商业的记录者，新经济的推动者。
Record-keeper of new business, promoter of new economy.
。
.
文/杨洁编辑/大风在职场飘了五年的陈冬原以为，在年前裸辞，他完全可以从容应对。
Wen / Yang Jie Editor / Gone with the Wind Chen Dong thought he could take his time when he left his job naked five years ago.
去年12月份下旬，陈冬从原来的一家中型游戏公司离职。
In late December, Mr. Chen quit his job at a midsize gaming company.
当天晚上11点钟，他在好友群吆喝了一声：“有啥工作机会想着兄弟。
At eleven o'clock that evening, he called out from among his friends, "What kind of job is there for a brother?
”由于积累了太多负面情绪，陈冬准备好好过个年再重新出发，原本心理预期是休息一两个月时间。
After accumulating so many negative emotions, Chen prepared to start afresh for a good year, expecting a month or two off.
俗话说“金三银四”，对于职场老人的陈冬来说，拿几个offer并没那么难。
As the saying goes, "three silver four", for the old man in the workplace in winter, take a few offer is not so difficult.
然而疫情的“黑天鹅”骤然起飞，不少公司延期复工，市场情况比陈冬想得要糟糕。
However, the "black swan" of the outbreak suddenly took off, many companies postponed resumption of work, the market situation than Chen Dong think worse.
从大年初七开始，他就开始了重复性的四部曲：刷招聘网站、找内推、改简历、等面试，但是也一直没有找到合适的机会。
From the seventh day of the new year, he began to repeat the four-part: brush job site, find push, change resume, and other interviews, but also has not found the right opportunities.
“人的心态太容易崩溃了。
"It's too easy to break down.
”找工作的遥遥无期，让陈冬忍不住在电话那头爆了个粗口。
"Looking for a job in the distance, let Chen Dong can not help but in the end of the telephone explosion of a swear.
领英大数据显示，自节后第二周开始，求职已经开始呈现恢复趋势，目前职位浏览、职位申请等指标对比去年分别上涨7%和6%。
Since the second week of the holiday, job searches have begun to show a recovery, with job searches and job applications up 7 percent and 6 percent, respectively, over the past year, according to leading figures.
与之相对的，则是招聘市场的缓慢复苏，2020年春招季的职位发布数量同比去年同期仍有20%-35%的降幅。
By contrast, there has been a slow recovery in the recruitment market, with the number of jobs posted in the spring of 2020 still down 20% -35% year-on-year.
像陈冬一样，正在求职的职场人都正面临着一场变局。
Like Chen Dong, job seekers are facing a sea change.
变局的背后，是市场的谨慎，每个人都在思考如何更好地活下去。
Behind the change is market caution, and everyone is thinking about how best to live.
牵一发而动全身，疫情中的求职者，不仅面临着计划被打乱，同时还衍生了诸多问题，比如僧多粥少，竞争加剧。
As the epidemic unfolds, job seekers face not only disruption of their plans, but also a host of problems, such as lack of atherosclerosis and increased competition.
突然被疫情击中的职场人，都面临着求职这一大难题。
Workers suddenly hit by the epidemic are faced with the big problem of finding a job.
与疫情狭路相逢的求职“如果再给我一次机会，我可能不会裸辞。
"If I were given another chance, I might not be nude.
”陈冬向锌财经发送了一个捂脸的emoji。
Mr Chen sent a face-covering emoji to Zinc Finance.
春节前，陈冬所在的项目小组面临着架构调整。
Before the Spring Festival, Chen Dong's project team is facing the structural adjustment.
“部门要合并。
"The departments are going to merge.
”各种各样的传言开始在内部流传。
Various rumors began to circulate internally.
陈冬突然有些挫败，挫败的并不是自己的去留问题，而是对手头负责的项目感到惋惜。
Chen Dong suddenly a bit frustrated, the frustration is not their own go-and-stay, but with the project in charge of the regret.
最终，他选择了辞职。
Eventually, he chose to resign.
离职后，陈冬也投了几家心仪的公司，陆续接受面试邀请，但是年前整个人处于极度松弛的状态。
After leaving office, Chen Dong also put in several favorite companies, a succession of interviews invited, but the year before the entire people in a state of extreme relaxation.
但度过了那个阶段，眼下关于求职的焦虑，是实实在在的。
But past that stage, the immediate anxiety about finding a job is real.
从年后开始，陈冬已经陆续投了12家公司，接受了7家面试邀请，但尚未收到任何一家的offer。
Since then, Chen has cast 12 companies and accepted seven job interviews, but has yet to receive an offer from any of them.
“有些是回应没有那么乐观，有些是职位不对口。
"Some of the responses were less optimistic and some were not.
”他总结说。
'he concluded.
在他的求职过程中，虽然不断有公司在陆续更新招聘需求，但更多的招聘需求已经被冻结。
In the course of his job search, more recruitment needs have been frozen, even as companies continue to update their recruitment needs.
一些年前所看好的心仪岗位，也被默默关闭掉。
Some years ago looked forward to the good post, was also quietly shut down.
对于已经攒下一些积蓄的陈冬来说，钱目前还不是头等问题，最重要的则是职场规划问题。
Money isn't the top priority for Mr. Chen, who has saved some of his savings. The most important issue is career planning.
大学及毕业后一直在杭州的陈冬，累积的人脉关系，资源更多聚集在杭州。
University and after graduation has been in Hangzhou's Chen Dong, accumulated contacts, resources more concentrated in Hangzhou.
目前除了杭州，他开始注意上海、南京的职位消息，但换个城市，对陈冬来说，生活和工作上，有太多需要重构的地方。
At present, in addition to Hangzhou, he began to pay attention to Shanghai, Nanjing job news, but to change the city, Chen Dong, life and work, there is too much to reconstruct.
求职中的职场人图源网络这样的苦恼并不罕见。
It is not uncommon for a worker to find a source of distress in a job search.
作为互联网浪潮中的一员，郭琼年底在前东家办理了离职手续，准备休整后，再开始找工作，刚辞职那两个月，她几乎经常出门与朋友聚会，熬夜看小说到四五点。
Guo, a member of the Internet wave, left her former employer at the end of the year to take a break before starting a job search. Two months after she resigned, she almost always went out to hang out with friends and stayed up late reading novels until four or five.
短暂的两周放纵后，更多还是焦虑和迷茫。
After a short two-week indulgence, more anxiety and confusion.
郭琼开始投了几家心仪的公司，陆续接受面试邀请，虽然一直都有面试，但是郭琼也面临着尴尬的处境：大公司不缺人、小的公司她看不上。
Guo has started to vote for several companies and has been invited to interviews, but Guo faces an embarrassing situation: she doesn't want big companies and she doesn't like small ones.
疫情发生后，面试方式也开始改为线上沟通，如果谈得不错，则安排视频面试。
After the outbreak, the interview method also began to change to online communication, if the good talk, then arrange a video interview.
过去的一周多时间，郭琼几乎天天捧着手机，和HR线上沟通。
For more than a week, Guo Qiong held her mobile phone almost daily, communicating with HR online.
“早上一睁眼就摸手机，打开手机就开始回消息。
"Touch your phone as soon as you open it in the morning and start answering it.
”目前收到了一个offer的郭琼，也开始没那么迷茫。
Guo, who has so far received an offer, is not so confused at first.
她开始向往以往繁忙的工作，怀念格子间的同事，甚至在睡眠紊乱的时候，开始反思去年的工作应该有哪些改善。
She began to yearn for her busy work, for her co-workers in the cubicle, and even for her sleep disorders, to reflect on what improvements should have been made over the past year.
“原来一直以来，工作给了我最大的安全感。
"Work has always given me the greatest sense of security.
”郭琼告诉锌财经。
"Guo Qiong told Zinc Finance.
春节后本来是每年比较活跃的招聘旺季，但2020的春季，却无比艰难。
Spring Festival is supposed to be a relatively active recruitment season each year, but in the spring of 2020, it is extremely difficult.
无论是应届生还是已经辞职的职场人士，除了招牌需求减少，竞争加剧的问题，求职者还面临着交通不畅，无法按时到岗的现实阻碍。
In addition to decreasing demand for signboards and increased competition, job-seekers, whether recent or already resigned, face the real obstacle of poor transportation and late arrival.
原本被寄予希望的春招图源网络一声枪响在这个特殊又艰难的时候，突然被击中的职场人开始了实实在在的担忧，担心房贷和车贷、还有支付宝里的蚂蚁花呗和如期而至信用卡账单。
The original hope of a spring source network shot in this special and difficult time, suddenly hit the workplace began to worry about the real fear of mortgage and car loans, as well as pay the ants in the pay Bao and credit card bills as scheduled.
在极大的不确定性面前，许多准备跳槽的人安定下来。
In the face of great uncertainty, many people ready to change jobs settle down.
“还好我年前没离职”。
I'm glad I didn't quit my job years ago.
就职于上海某企业的吴文说。
said Wu Wen, who works for a Shanghai-based company.
她十分庆幸自己没有在年前辞职，去年11月她所在的项目小组被调整，所在部门的同事，开始逐个跳槽，或者出去创业。
She's glad she didn't quit her job a year ago, and in November her team was restructured and her colleagues in the department began changing jobs or going out to start a business.
“那段时间真的蠢蠢欲动。
"It was a really busy time.
”吴文开始羡慕那些辞职的同事，看到过渡期间，前同事们朋友圈中旅游的照片，吴文更加按耐不住。
Wu began to envy his colleagues who had resigned, and even more so when he saw pictures of former colleagues traveling in groups of former colleagues during the transition.
“那时候，微信群里总是和朋友讨论离职。
"At that time, there was always talk about quitting with friends.
”疫情的到来，最终左右了她的决策。
The arrival of the epidemic finally shaped her decision.
她开始庆幸自己等了等，如果当时辞职了，年后至少要休息挺久。
She began to congratulate herself for waiting, and if she resigned, she would at least rest a long time after the year.
“身边两个朋友本来也拿到了offer，但由于疫情的原因，公司觉得人力成本太高就毁约了。
"Two friends around had an offer, but because of the outbreak, the company felt the human cost was too high and the contract was broken.
”吴文说。
"said Wu.
疫情的出现让她重新规划了下一步方向，为了不让自己陷入到被市场淘汰的焦虑，她也开始学习线上课程，为自身拓展更多元的职业选择。
The outbreak has set her on a new course, and she has taken online courses to expand her career options in order not to get caught up in the anxiety of being eliminated from the market.
疫情爆发已两个月。
Two months have passed since the outbreak.
据领英数据显示：疫情爆发期间初级职位影响最大，职位发布数量与去年同期减少了94%。
Junior jobs were most affected during the outbreak, with the number of job announcements down 94% from the same period last year, according to the UK.
这意味着具备更强竞争力的求职者才能脱颖而出，比如是否具备核心的技能、是否具有明确的职业目标和规划等。
This means that more competitive job-seekers emerge with core skills, clear career goals and plans.
行业洗牌、公司变动以及办公条件等因素的限制，对求职者产生着最为直接的影响。
Job seekers are most directly affected by industry shuffling, corporate changes and restrictions on office conditions.
市场环境发生了变化，犹如多米诺骨牌一般，即使疫情已经逐渐得到控制，但是职场上的机会，也不会立刻恢复到之前的状态。
The market environment has changed, like a domino, and even if the epidemic is under control, opportunities in the workplace will not immediately return to where they were before.
市场的震动中，除了艰难求职的人，受波及最大的，还有今年的应届毕业生。
The market shake, in addition to the hard job seekers, the most affected, this year's graduates.
王玉琪是浙江一所高校传媒专业的应届毕业生，如果没有疫情，此刻她已经准备春招。
Wang Yuqi is a university media major in Zhejiang fresh graduates, if there is no epidemic, at the moment she is ready to spring.
而现在，浙江省内学生短期内不得返校，部分企业开始了云面试。
Now, Zhejiang students are not allowed to return to school in the short term, some enterprises began cloud interviews.
其中，阿里、苏宁、腾讯等互联网企业更是早就将线下的春招会集中到了线上进行，包括线上平台、开展宣讲会、视频面试等。
Among them, Ali, Suning, Tencent and other Internet enterprises are already focused on the online spring gathering, including online platforms, seminars, video interviews, and so on.
“具体推迟到什么时候，现在也没有准确的答复。
"There is no precise answer as to when that will happen.
”王玉琪一边等待春季招聘会的通知，一边继续向其他公司投递简历。
While waiting for an announcement from the spring job fair, Ms. Wang continued to send resumes to other companies.
对于她来说，刷招聘网站，变成了缓解焦虑的一种方式。
For her, brushing the job site has become a way to ease her anxiety.
即使这样，王玉琪在春招中依然感到阻力重重。
Even so, Wang Yuqi in the spring still feel heavy resistance.
一方面，春招比秋招竞争大，加上名额少，投简历容易石沉大海；另一方面，因为宣讲会的取消，视频面试的成功率也会受到影响。
On the one hand, spring recruitment is more competitive than autumn recruitment, combined with the small number of places, CVs are easy to sink into the sea; on the other hand, the success rate of video interviews will be affected by the cancellation of the seminars.
不论对于应届毕业生，还是离职正在找工作的人来说，在这个特殊时刻，眼下并没有太多的选择。
There are not many options available at this particular moment, either for recent graduates or for those leaving their jobs.
困局疫情之下，各大企业都受到了严重的冲击，招聘职位的数量则出现断崖式下降。
Under the difficult situation, all the major enterprises have been seriously affected, and the number of recruitment jobs appeared to fall cliff.
与此对应的是，求职者已经在 2 月 3日 后开始了密集的求职，BOSS 直聘发布的《2020 年春节后十天人才趋势观察》数据显示，今年春节后十天（2.3-2.12），就业市场新增招聘需求较 2019 年同阶段减半，其中 100 人以下的小微企业波及最大，新增人才需求锐减 61%.数据来自BOSS直聘研究院此外，由于市场风险加剧，求职者求稳心态强烈，有跳槽考虑的职场人开始推迟换工作。
In contrast, job seekers have started intensive job-hunting since February 3, with BOSS's "Ten Days after Spring Festival 2020" data showing that 10 days after Spring Festival (2.3-2.12) this year, the job market will see the biggest increase in demand for micro and small businesses with less than 100 employees.
小企业面临着人才需求和供给同时下降的困境。
Small enterprises are faced with the dilemma that the demand and supply of talents decrease simultaneously.
领英调研数据也显示，近期求职者更为谨慎。
Lead UK survey data also shows that recent job seekers are more cautious.
春节后领英平台上非应届毕业生求职者的职位申请数量较今年春节前和去年同期都有所下降。
After the Spring Festival, the number of job applications for non-fresh graduates on the platform declined from the pre-Spring Festival and year-on-year.
除了医疗卫生领域外，其他领域的招聘信息浏览数量都在减少，职场人更为谨慎。
With the exception of health care, job searches in other areas are declining and workers are more cautious.
求职者难找的同时，企业也难招。
While job seekers are hard to find, companies are hard to find.
当前疫情波及行业广泛，不少企业无法按时复工，但部分行业却逆势崛起。
The epidemic currently affects a wide range of industries, many enterprises can not return to work on time, but some industries have risen against the trend.
就职于某线上教育企业的黄晶，年后有一批招聘计划需要推进，由于业务主要在线上，公司反而在流量反弹中加速发展。
Huang Jing, who works for an online education company, has a batch of recruitment plans to push ahead after the year.
从正月初七开始，她便开始在线办公，筛选候选人、安排视频面试。
From the seventh day of the first month, she began to work online, screening candidates, arranging video interviews.
以往的春招中，最多一天有十几场初试，而这个求职季，因为一切都转向线上的关系，会有一些求职者会因为这样那样的原因抗拒视频面试。
In the past, there were at most a dozen first-time job interviews a day, and this season, as everything turns to online relationships, some job seekers will resist video interviews for one reason or another.
尽管求职形势严峻，黄晶在过去几天里邀约面试和实际到面的人数都低于预估；其次，求职网站上挂出的合适简历，也不多。
Despite the tough job market, Ms. Huang has had fewer than expected solicitation interviews and actual attendance in the past few days and, second, fewer suitable resumes have been posted on job-search sites.
疫情期间，因为视频面试，对于公司实际情况没有整体把握，求职者心里慌，入职成功率也受到了一定影响。
During the epidemic, because of the video interview, the actual situation of the company is not overall assurance, job seekers panic, the success rate of entry has also been affected.
剧烈的变动，让企业和求职者，都陷入两难境地。
The upheaval has left companies and job seekers in a quandary.
谁的黎明今年的大环境，确实给求职者笼罩了无形的压力。
Who the dawn of this year's environment, the job seekers really shrouded in invisible pressure.
“修行”还是奋斗，这是放在求职者面前的问题。
"Practice" or struggle, this is placed in the face of job seekers.
当前疫情波及行业广泛，不少企业无法按时复工，有的甚至陷入经营困境，但整体来说，大趋势不会变。
At present, the epidemic affects a wide range of industries, many enterprises can not return to work on time, some even into business difficulties, but overall, the general trend will not change.
不论是宏观还是微观，企业的波动都偶有发生，在这个过程中，企业要强内功；而对于个人来说，放平心态则是更为重要。
Whether macro or micro, the fluctuations of the enterprise occasionally occur, in the process, enterprises want to strengthen their internal skills, but for individuals, the relaxed mentality is more important.
特殊时期的求职体验，也从侧面给了求职者更为客观、清晰的判断依据。
The job search experience of special period also gives job seeker more objective and clear judgment basis from the side.
求职路上，也并不全是坏消息。
Nor is it all bad news on the way to work.
一方面，对于有准备的求职者来说，真正考验人的时刻来临，他们也正在开始总结和反思，自己的核心竞争力到底在哪里？职场人打响生存保卫战图源网络疫情期间，陆佳很快通过“云面试”，开启了新的职业生涯。
On the one hand, the real test of a job seeker's time is coming, and they are beginning to take stock and reflect on where their core competencies lie.
从年前开始，陆佳就开始向心仪公司投递简历，在年后，更是进入了改简历，发简历的重复状态。
Since the beginning of the year, Lu Jia began to heart-to-heart company to send resume, in the year after, but also into the curriculum vitae, sent the status of repetition.
“我在大年初二就开始投递简历。
"I started to submit resumes on the second day of New Year.
”复工之后，陆佳的投递也陆续有了反馈，截止到正月十六，她已经获得三家企业的offer。
Since resuming work, Lu Jia has received feedback on her deliveries, and by January 16, she had secured offers from three companies.
权衡之后，她选择了其中一家。
On balance, she chose one of them.
“劳动合同也是云签约，新人的培训资料都是线上的。
"The labor contract is also a cloud signing, new training materials are online.
” 就这样，陆佳在线上走完了整个流程，成功入职。
In this way, Lu Jia completed the entire process on-line and successfully entered the job.
对于准备好了的人来说，竞争加剧的求职季并没有想象中的可怕；但对于毫无准备的人来说，焦虑、迷茫则会伴随很久。
For the prepared mind, a competitive job-hunting season is not as scary as you might think; for the unprepared, anxiety and confusion can be a long time to come.
另一方面，中高端人才需求，热门领域职位的需求，不降反增。
On the other hand, the demand for high-end talent, hot areas of job demand, not decreasing.
据猎聘数据显示，2020年春节后，中高端人才简历投递的峰值比往年出现得晚。
According to recruitment data, after the 2020 Spring Festival, the high-end talent resume delivery peak than in previous years.
春节后开工5个工作日内，无论是简历投递总量，还是简历投递量的峰值均约为春节前的80%。
During the 5 working days after Spring Festival, the total number of CVs submitted and the peak of CV delivery is about 80% of that before Spring Festival.
随着后续企业陆续进入常态化运营，简历投递量会持续攀升。
As follow-up enterprises continue to enter the normal operation, resume delivery will continue to climb.
此外，部分行业的需求也在提升。
In addition, demand is rising in some sectors.
其中互联网尽显轻资产优势，新增中高端人才需求最大。
Among them, the Internet shows the advantages of assets, new high-end talent needs the most.
值得注意的是，消费品行业的人才需求也位居前三，占比为9.39%。
It is worth noting that the consumer goods sector also ranks among the top three with a 9.39 per cent share.
疫情爆发后，多数人出行受限，对消费品尤其是日用品的依赖较高，而已经崛起的新零售和本地生活等渠道，带动了企业对人才的需求。
In the wake of the outbreak, most people were limited in their travel and relied more on consumer goods, especially household goods, while the rising channels of new retail and local life created a demand for talent.
数据来自猎聘网求职下的个体，都有各自迥异的经历，谁都无法代表职场的全部，不论是哪个行业，都需要新鲜血液的注入，人，永远是重中之重。
The data come from individuals seeking jobs on the job-hunting website. They all have very different experiences, and no one can represent the entire workplace.
职场人既要埋头干活，也要抬头看路。
Workmen must look up as well as their heads to work.
职场本就是一场马拉松，对于大家来讲，这个特殊的时期，更多的是自己跟自己赛跑。
The workplace is a marathon, for everyone, this special period, more is their own race.
“机会总是留给有准备的人，游戏规则就是这么简单。
"Opportunities are always reserved for those who are prepared, and the rules of the game are so simple.
”陆佳说。
"said Lu.
（为保证受访者隐私，陈冬，郭琼，黄晶均为化名）。
(To ensure the privacy of the interviewee, Chen Dong, Guo Qiong, Huang Jing are aliases).
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
直面史上最难春招：我的简历无处可去。
Face the worst thing in history: My resume has nowhere to go.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "科技互联网";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & T & T & T;;
var nickname = "锌财经";。
Var nickname = & quot; zinc finance & quot;;
var msg_title = "直面史上最难春招：我的简历无处可去";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "疫情下的求职众生相。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; a living creature in an epidemic.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="锌财经";。
Var title = & quot; Zinc & Finance & quot;;
