“燃灯计划”：他们输送物资、温暖与爱。
The Burning Light Program: They deliver supplies, warmth, and love.
“燃灯计划”：他们输送物资、温暖与爱。
The Burning Light Program: They deliver supplies, warmth, and love.
陶叶。
Pottery leaves.
我们是有故事的人                      。
We are people with stories.
我们是有故事的人。
We are people with stories.
每一行都有认真的人，再平凡的人也有不平凡的故事。
There are serious people in every line, and even ordinary people have extraordinary stories.
华中科技大学出版社官方非虚构故事平台，有故事的人终将在这里相遇。
Huazhong University of Science and Technology Press official non-fiction platform, the story will eventually meet here.
。
.
- 疫情 之 下 -刘韶山有个愿望，等疫情结束后和这群绝大多数从未见过面的“志愿车队”车友们聚一聚，喝个酒，他在群里说：“疫情结束后，我们的故事才开始。
-Under the Epidemic - Liu Shaoshan had a wish to get together with the vast majority of volunteers who had never met and had a drink. He said in the group: "After the epidemic is over, our story begins.
””1月25日大年初一，为解决湖北非省会城市的物资紧缺问题，来自各行各业的两百多名志愿者组建起 “燃灯计划”组织。
On the first day of the Lunar New Year, more than 200 volunteers from all walks of life set up the "Lantern Project" to solve the material shortage in the non-capital cities of Hubei Province.
他们发挥各自专业优势，在两天的时间内登记了湖北各个地市级医院633条物资需求信息，并一棒棒接力，打通了募捐、采购、存储、运输等各个环节。
Using their respective professional advantages, they registered 633 materials demand information and a baseball relay at various county and municipal hospitals in Hubei Province over a period of two days, opening the way for fund-raising, procurement, storage and transportation.
他们不计报酬地热情工作，也时常因身体超负荷和被外界误解而情绪消沉。
They work enthusiastically and recklessly and are often depressed by overloading their bodies and being misunderstood.
“我自己创业时也算够拼的了，可都没有像现在这么忙过。
"I started my own business, but I'm not as busy as I am now.
”采购志愿者白白说。
"said the volunteer buyer in vain.
体内有囊肿的她近来开始心悸、胸闷、头疼、耳鸣，也因物资没有及时到位而遭受责备。
With a cyst in her body, she recently began to experience palpitations, tightness in the chest, headaches, tinnitus, and was blamed for not arriving in time.
但她觉得没办法放弃，“如果不做这些事了，那么多医院怎么办，我们看不下去啊！”来自武汉周边城市的求救声青年编剧迪奥岑出乎意料地成为了“燃灯计划”创始人之一。
But she felt unable to give up, "If we don't do these things, we can't bear to see what we can do with so many hospitals!" Diozen, a young SOS writer from a city around Wuhan, unexpectedly became one of the founders of the Lantern Project.
她的表哥在广州经营一家纺织品及服装原料辅料批发公司，1月23号一早，表哥一行三人就从广州出发，开了30多个小时的车，将采购的37万只口罩和一批消毒液送到了老家荆州市的疾控中心门口。
Her cousin runs a wholesale textile and clothing raw materials wholesale company in Guangzhou. Early on January 23, her cousin and three others drove more than 30 hours from Guangzhou, taking 370,000 masks and a batch of disinfectant to the door of their home city of Jingzhou.
1月24日，迪奥岑表哥把37万只口罩拖运到荆州疾控中心门口。
On January 24, Cousin Diozen took 370,000 masks to the gate of Jingzhou CDC.
24号下午，迪奥岑发了一条朋友圈：“刚刚让我哥给留了50只，还没有口罩的找我，普通口罩，非N95，不包邮，口罩免费。
On the afternoon of the 24th, Diocun sent out a circle of friends: "I just asked my brother to leave 50, still no mask to me, ordinary masks, non-N95, no package, free masks.
”这句话正好被朋友圈好友、社交平台大V“兔撕鸡大老爷”看到了。
"This sentence is just a friend of the circle of friends, social platform V" Rabbit tore chicken "saw.
他把迪奥岑和表哥的事迹发到了网上。
He posted the stories of Diozen and his cousin online.
短短一小时，几百人加了迪奥岑的微信求赠口罩，有医务工作者也有普通百姓。
In just an hour, hundreds of people have added Diozen's micro-letter asking for masks, both medical workers and ordinary people.
跟这些人聊天后，迪奥岑惊讶地发现武汉周边城市物资紧缺的程度也触目惊心，这是她第一次真实听到了“来自一线的求救声。
After chatting to these people, Diozen was surprised to find the extent of the shortages in Wuhan's surrounding cities as well. It was the first time she had actually heard a "cry for help from the front line."
”迪奥岑先建了一个“武汉周边城市互助微信群”，把有物资需求的医院都拉进来，通过沟通排查，她迅速整理出一份“武汉周边城市医疗物资求助清单”，发到朋友圈里呼吁：“你们要知道，武汉周边的小城市，疑似感染人数比各个省份加起来都要多，希望大家多多关注我们！”迪奥岑2018年大学毕业，工作一年内跳槽了十多次，“没办法，待不住。
Diozen built a "solidarity micro-group of cities around Wuhan," drawing in hospitals with material needs. "Through communications, she quickly compiled a" medical help list of Wuhan-surrounding cities, "calling out to her friends:" You know, the small cities around Wuhan have more suspected infections than all the provinces combined.
”而在这时，她开始主动联系这些前老板们，拿着“物资清单”挨个求助了一遍，把他们加到互助群里。
At this point, she began to contact the former bosses, asking them one by one for help with the list, adding them to the support group.
在大V“兔撕鸡大老爷”的帮助下，一两天时间，群内志愿者人数已经拓展到两百多人。
With the help of Big V "Rabbit tearing chicken master," the number of volunteers in the group has expanded to more than 200 in a day or two.
志愿者们身份各异，有公司高管，有大学老师，有海外华人，有农家乐老板，有卖烧烤的大叔，有保险销售员，有开美甲店的小姐姐，也有微商的代理人。
The volunteers range from corporate executives to college teachers to overseas Chinese, farm house owners, barbecue-selling uncles, insurance salesmen, little sisters in nail shops and agents of microbusinessmen.
“兔撕鸡大老爷”觉得虽然人多，但缺少一个核心组织者，于是联系了互联网产品经理马力，马力人脉圈也很广，本身就运营着一个有77个产品经理的群。
"Rabbit tearing chicken" thought although the large number of people, but the lack of a central organizer, so contact Internet product manager horsepower, horsepower network is also wide-ranging, itself running a group of 77 product managers.
机锋网创始人谈毅也加入进来，进群后开始负责整体的领导协调工作。
Engine network founder Dian Yi also joined in, after entering the group began to be responsible for overall leadership coordination.
1月25日大年初一，大家商量后为这个互助组织起了个名字：“燃灯计划”——寓意帮助解决湖北那些非省会城市的医疗机构物资紧缺问题，防止“灯下黑”。
January 25, the New Year's Day, we discussed for this mutual assistance group a name: "Lighting Program" - meaning to help solve the problem of Hubei those non-provincial cities of medical facilities, to prevent "black light.
从1月25号到27号，他们累计登记了湖北各个地市级医院633条物资需求信息。
From Jan. 25 to Jan. 27, they registered 633 materials in hospitals across Hubei province.
为了提高物资流转效率，他们迅速将群内的志愿者分为“采购组”“募捐组”“物流组”等若干小组，并在湖北各个地市搭建了“临时仓库”，物资到达后，各个地区依靠招募的车队志愿者，将物资转运到各个医院。
In order to improve the efficiency of material flow, they quickly divided the group of volunteers into "procurement group," "fund-raising group," "logistics group" and other groups, and set up "temporary warehouses" in various cities in Hubei.
频遭质疑的物资采购迪奥岑主要负责的是寻找货源。
Diozen's main responsibility for the much-questioned procurement of goods is to find a source.
国内医护物资生产厂商已经供不应求，且不少厂家已经被政府接管征用，她便把目光放在了海外。
Domestic medical supplies manufacturers have been in short supply, and many manufacturers have been taken over by the government requisitioned, she set her sights on overseas.
从来没有从事过海外贸易的她，一开始踩了不少坑，费心尽力买一批货回来，却因为不符合医护要求而无法捐给医护人员使用。
She, who had never been involved in overseas trade, initially went through many craters and tried so hard to buy a shipment back that she was unable to donate to health-care workers because she did not meet the medical requirements.
此前她经过一位朋友介绍，找到澳洲一家口罩生产厂商，“老板不仅没有坐地起价，而且自掏腰包捐了一万元人民币。
She was introduced to an Australian mask manufacturer by a friend. "The boss didn't start sitting on the floor, he donated 10,000 yuan from his own pocket.
”可是，由于自己英文专业水平不强，她本以为这批口罩是不带阀门的，下单后仔细看说明书才发现里面没有“防液体喷溅”字样，这意味着这批口罩物资无法提供给一线医护工作者。
However, due to her lack of expertise in English, she thought the masks were not valve-free, and a careful reading of the instructions showed that they did not contain the word "liquid splash," which meant that the masks could not be supplied to front-line health workers.
一家香港公司想要认捐，沟通后决定将这批口罩捐赠给福利院老人以及环卫工人等。
A Hong Kong company wanted to make a donation and decided to donate the mask to elderly people and sanitation workers.
“做民用也算是一个不错的结果，但我现在最主要还是想解决一线医护人员的燃眉之急。
"Civil use is a good result, but I still want to address the most urgent needs of front-line medical personnel.
”为了避免再犯同类错误，她天天拿着翻译器在各国语言的说明书上寻找“防液体喷溅”这个专业术语，实在搞不定，她就发朋友圈求助，后来她专门组建了一个小语种翻译志愿者群，有需求就把信息发到群里求助。
"To avoid making the same mistake again, she searched daily for the technical term" splash-proof "with a translator in various languages, and she sent out help to her circle of friends, who later assembled a small group of language translators who sent information to the group for help if needed.
货源搞定后，她还要了解各种海关进口的手续和流程，填写通关文件，处理外贸问题，“我朋友开玩笑对我说，等疫情过了之后，你可以去开拓海外贸易生意了。
When the supply is complete, she also needs to know all the customs import formalities and procedures, fill in the customs clearance documents and deal with the foreign trade problem. "My friend joked to me that after the epidemic is over, you can start trading overseas.
”由于时差，迪奥岑经常在半夜回复信息，尤其是在刚上手几天，一天只能睡四个小时。
Because of the jet lag, Diozen often replies in the middle of the night, especially after just a few days on the job and only gets four hours' sleep a day.
高强度的用眼让她得了急性结膜炎，眼睛红肿得让妈妈吓了一跳。
High intensity with her eyes let her get acute conjunctivitis, eyes swelling so that her mother startled.
妈妈心疼她，而她又不忍心放弃，自己觉得快要崩溃了，躲在卫生间里大哭了一场。
Mother loved her, and she could not bear to give up, he felt that he was about to collapse, hiding in the bathroom crying.
随着采购事宜越捋越顺，她才承诺家人，会在夜里一点前去睡觉。
As she smoothed through her shopping, she promised her family that she would go to bed at 1pm.
与迪奥岑一样，白白也经历了同样的崩溃时刻，“我自己创业时也算够拼的了，可都没有像现在这么忙过。
Like Diozen, I went through the same crash in vain: "I started my own business, but I'm not as busy as I am now."
”白白的母亲是国家二级营养师及民间食疗达人，2017年年初白白辞职，跟母亲一起做起了“辣酱生意”，后来又开了米粉店。
Her white mother, a state dietitian and folk dietician, resigned in early 2017 to join her mother in a "spicy sauce" business and later opened a rice noodle shop.
由于身体过度劳累，白白在2019年年末查出体内有一囊肿，被强行要求休息调养身体。
Due to excessive physical exertion, a cyst was detected in late 2019 and forced to rest and recuperate.
大年初二，谈毅找到她时，她刚刚从江西南昌老家返回北京。
She had just returned to Beijing from Nanchang, Jiangxi Province, when she was found by Dian Yi.
她进群后就被群里各个地县级医院物资紧缺的信息吓到了。
As soon as she entered the group, she was frightened by the news of shortages at county-level hospitals in various parts of the group.
“湖北黄冈下面的蕲春县，有一个医院院长说，现在院里的医护人员都在裸奔，没有口罩没有防护服。
"The Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Agkistrodon in Huanggang, Hubei Province, has a hospital director who says that all the hospital staff are now running nude without face masks or protective clothing.
我从字里行间感觉他都快要哭出来了。
I could feel between the lines that he was on the verge of tears.
”白白甚至还看到有医院在求助成人纸尿裤：“他们根本舍不得脱下防护服去上厕所，都是穿着纸尿裤进去的，不吃不喝8小时，这让我心揪得疼。
Hospitals even turned to adult diapers for help: "They're reluctant to take off their suits and go to the toilet, they're all in diapers, and they don't eat or drink for eight hours, which makes my heart ache.
”接手物资采购后的一周多时间里，白白每天都觉得自己要疯了——从早上九点到夜里两点，除了吃饭，其他时间都是抱着手机在拼命发信息沟通协调。
For more than a week after taking over, I felt like I was going crazy every day.From 9am to 2pm, I spent the rest of the day trying to communicate and coordinate with my cell phone in addition to eating.
“一天下来，常常感觉自己的眼睛要掉出来了，每次戴隐形眼镜时就感觉特别疼，根本戴不上。
"At the end of the day, I often feel that my eyes are going to fall out. Every time I wear contact lenses, I feel very painful.
每晚到了11点多就开始心悸，胸闷，头疼，耳鸣......做公益太不容易了！”白白说。
Every night at 11: 00 on the start of palpitations, chest tightness, headaches, tinnitus... it is not easy to do public welfare!
为了节约时间，她连洗头洗澡都省去了，几天下来，N95、KF94、KN95、FFP3、FFP2......她对物资的型号和价格都倒背如流，“一次性医用口罩2块钱一个，N95口罩10块到20块，隔离服10块到20块，护目镜17块到27块，都属于采购的低价。
In order to save time, she did not even wash her hair and shower, over the next few days, N95, KF94, KN95, FFP3, FFP2... She recited the model and price of the materials.
”“本来找货源就挺难的，好不容易找到符合标准的货源，已经付款准备发货了，突然就接到通知，被政府征用了；要么就是物流不接单了.....”各种临时状态考验着白白，更抓狂的是，认捐企业也会过来催问捐赠事宜。
"" It was hard to find a source that met the standards, had already paid for delivery, was suddenly called in and was requisitioned by the government, or was left out of order... "Temporary arrangements were put to the test, and even more frantically, the pledging companies came to ask for donations.
某学校的学员曾经自发筹集资金，通过白白这里购买护目镜，定向捐赠给孝感市的几家医院。
Students of a school have raised funds spontaneously, through the purchase of goggles here, targeted donation to several hospitals in Xiaogan City.
结果三四天过去了，物流单号迟迟没有反馈，有学员就提出质疑。
As a result, three or four days later, the logistics list number delayed feedback, some students questioned.
募资负责人一遍遍催白白，白白则催厂家，事实上厂家也已经超负荷运转。
Fund-raising responsible person again and again in vain rush manufacturers, in fact, manufacturers have been overloaded.
白白说，每天花费在这方面的口舌也会让她心生委屈：“明明我们不收一分钱，不求任何回报，费心费力在做一件好事，为什么到后来会遭到怀疑？”其实在做这件事情之初，就有朋友提醒过白白，这种民间行为风险很大，万一哪里没做到位，很容易招来质疑甚至举报。
To tell you the truth, the words we spend every day on this subject make her feel wronged: Obviously we don't charge anything, we don't ask for anything in return, we bother to do a good deed, why do we end up being suspected?
为此白白他们还特地请教过律师，可疫情当前，白白觉得“如果不做这些事了，那么多医院怎么办，我们看不下去啊！”关卡重重的运输之路在整个医护物资民间救济链条上，除“采购物资”外，“物流运输”这一环节也随着“武汉封城”、“湖北封省”变得越来越困难。
For this reason, they have consulted a lawyer, but the epidemic situation is now, in vain, "If we do not do these things, so many hospitals do not look forward to ah!" The heavy transport of medical supplies in the chain, in addition to "procurement of materials," "logistics transport" along with "Wuhan sealing," "Hubei sealing Province" has become more and more difficult.
1月25日起，顺丰等物流快递公司陆续发通知：凡是运往湖北省的其他物资快递只发武汉，非武汉地区暂无法配送。
Since January 25, Shunfeng and other logistics express delivery companies have been issued notice: all other shipments to Hubei Province only sent Wuhan, non-Wuhan areas temporarily unable to distribute.
孟黎管理着荆州市一家商业广场综合体项目，疫情发生后，她采购了三万双防护鞋套想捐给医护，当晚12点下订单，第二天一早就退回来了，原因是“物流无法配送”。
After the outbreak, she purchased 30,000 pairs of protective shoes for medical care, placed an order at 12: 00 pm and returned early the next morning because "logistics could not be delivered."
跟厂家一番商量后，孟黎决定先让货物发到武汉，再派人去武汉拉货。
After consulting with the manufacturers, Meng Li decided to send the goods to Wuhan first, and then send someone to Wuhan to pull goods.
荆州距离武汉220多公里，可是就在准备去武汉的当天，荆州下了“封城令”，所有机动车辆禁止通行，他们只好又跑到防疫指挥部办理通行证，几番折腾后才把物资运送回来。
Jingzhou is more than 220 kilometers away from Wuhan, but on the day of preparing to go to Wuhan, Jingzhou issued a ban on all motor vehicles, so they had to go to the epidemic prevention headquarters to obtain permits, after many toss back the goods.
孟黎派人到荆州高速路口交接货物。
Meng Li sent people to Jingzhou Expressway junction handing over goods.
​2月12日，孟黎协调组织的13吨酒精从山东运至湖北。
On Feb. 12, 13 tons of alcohol were transported from Shandong to Hubei by Meng Li Coordination Organization.
为了提高物流运转速度，孟黎很快拿出商场一万方的面积用作临时仓库，为各个民间救助物资提供中转运输志愿服务，并安排保安、保洁人员轮流值班。
In order to improve the speed of logistics operations, Meng Li quickly took out 10,000 square areas of the mall as temporary warehouses, to provide various civilian relief goods in transit transport volunteer services, and to arrange security, cleaning personnel on a rotational basis.
她已经陆续加了若干个民间救助群，只要有物流仓储需要，她就尽力协调安排。
She has been adding a number of private groups, as long as logistics storage needs, she tried to coordinate arrangements.
紧接着，孟黎所在的集团也先后拿出武汉、天门等其他城市的商业地产用作医护物资中转仓，“这样效率就好很多，比如前几天有一批物资，里面有11000个口罩是送给荆州各大医院的，厂家可以直接发到我们这个临时仓库。
In the meantime, Meng Li's group has taken commercial properties from Wuhan, Tianmen and other cities to use as staging areas for medical and health-care materials. "This is much more efficient. For example, a few days ago there was a shipment of 11,000 masks for major hospitals in Jingzhou.
其他地区的物资也可以通过我们这里转运，我们把物资拉到高速路口直接交接。
Goods from other regions can also be transshipped through us, and we pull supplies to high-speed intersections for direct hand-over.
”恩施土家苗族自治州位于湖北省西南部，距离武汉将近800公里，州内几乎都是山地，相较于湖北其他城市，偏远的位置及不利的地形使得这里的医护物资运输更为困难。
Enshi Tujia Miao Autonomous Prefecture is situated in the southwestern part of Hubei Province, nearly 800 kilometers from Wuhan, and is almost entirely mountainous.
而截至2月9日，恩施已经确诊了将近200例新冠状病毒肺炎患者。
As of February 9, Enshi had confirmed nearly 200 cases of coronavirus pneumonia.
刘韶山加入“燃灯计划”志愿组织后，就梳理出恩施当地100多家医院的物资需求信息，很快他成为恩施地区协调小组的组长，他几乎每天都是从早上八点忙活到晚上一两点，一天下来电话要打上百个。
When Liu Shaoshan joined the voluntary organization, he combed out the material needs of more than 100 hospitals in Enshi. He soon became the leader of the Enshi District Coordination Group. He worked almost every day from eight in the morning until one or two in the evening, and called a hundred at the end of the day.
2月1日，他接到消息，有9000个口罩从潜江发到荆州临时货仓，需要他安排一名司机师傅从恩施跑一趟荆州，把物资拉回来分给恩施各个医院。
On 1 February, he received information that 9,000 masks had been sent from the river to the temporary warehouse in Jingzhou, requiring him to arrange for a driver to run from Enshi to Jingzhou and bring the supplies back to the hospitals in Enshi.
他在恩施当地的“志愿者车队”群里问：“谁愿意去？”很快就有十多个人响应，最终刘韶山在组员的推荐下，选择让王壮谟去。
"Who would like to go?" he asked in Enshi's local volunteer caravan. "Soon more than a dozen people responded and eventually Liu Shaoshan chose to let Wang Zhuangmei go on the recommendation of the group.
接到任务时，王壮谟正在距离恩施市区16公里外的龙凤镇家中，当天下午五点多钟，他赶紧开车去卫健委办理通行证。
At the time of the assignment, Wang was 16 kilometers away from Enshi City Longfeng town home, that day more than 5 p.m., he rushed to drive to the health-care committee for a pass.
那时村里已经封路，他只好拿出自己报名志愿者的资料信息表示来意，经过一番核实后才放行，到恩施卫健委后再次遭到了同样问题：“你有官方盖章证明吗？”“如何证明你运送的口罩是用于捐赠而不是商用？”情急之下，王壮谟把自己所有的信息资料，身份证、车牌号、家庭住址、公司经营执照、志愿者登记表格等一一出示，并一再表示“是为国家出份力”后，终于拿到恩施至荆州的通行证。
At that time, the village has closed the road, he had to sign up for volunteers information to express their intention, after some verification before the release, Enshi Wei Health Commission again encountered the same problem: "How to prove that you transport the mask is used for donations, not commercial?" Wang Zhuangmei showed his information, ID card, license number, home address, company license, volunteer registration form, etc.
王壮谟拿到的通行证。
The pass Wang got.
2号早上八点半，恩施下起了小雨，王壮谟出发前先到恩施中心医院拿防护服和口罩，以备到荆州时使用。
At 8: 30 a.m. on the 2nd, it began to rain. Before he left, Wang Zhuangmei went to Enshi Central Hospital to get protective clothing and masks for use in Jingzhou.
“荆州算是疫情比较严重的地区，说实话我心里也挺害怕，只能多加小心。
"Jingzhou is a relatively serious epidemic area, to be honest, my heart is also quite scared, can only be more careful.
”跟昨天一样，还没出城，王壮谟就已经被警察拦了两次。
"As yesterday, before leaving town, Wang had been stopped twice by the police.
第一次，他被两个女交警拦下，量体温、检查通行证，警车的后备箱车盖开着，一把雨伞下面放了台笔记本电脑，用作来往车辆人员信息登记，而警察就站在雨里淋着身体执勤。
On the first occasion, he was stopped by two female traffic police officers, who took his temperature, checked the pass, the back cover of the police car was open, a laptop was placed under an umbrella to register the information of people going and coming to and from the vehicle, and the police were standing in the rain, drenching their bodies.
第二次，过一个十字路口，又被警察拦下，那位警察只戴着一幅普通口罩，雨已经把口罩全部淋湿了，风一吹口罩全部贴住了嘴，连说话都很吃力。
The second time, he was stopped by the police at a crossroad. He was wearing only an ordinary mask, the rain had soaked it all, and the wind blew it all over his mouth, making it very difficult for him to speak.
听说王壮谟是要去拖运口罩，这位警察很是希望他能赠送几副口罩。
I heard that Wang Zhuang Mu was going to haul the mask. The policeman was hoping that he would give him some masks.
王壮谟看他站在雨中的样子，几乎难受地想要流泪，于是赶紧在“志愿者车队”群里发了条消息，一个小时之后，另一位张姓车友把口罩给这位警察送了过去。
Seeing him standing in the rain, he almost wanted to cry, so he hurriedly sent a message in the "Volunteer Corps." An hour later, another fellow surnamed Zhang sent the mask to the policeman.
恩施到荆州大约300多公里，四个多小时的车程王壮谟一刻也没敢耽误。
Enshi to Jingzhou about 300 kilometers, more than four hours by car Wang Zhuangmei did not dare delay.
中间只在两个服务区做短暂停歇，服务区里稀稀拉拉停着五六辆车，提供的餐点也只有方便面。
There was only a brief pause in two service areas, with five or six cars parked thinly in the service area and meals served only with instant noodles.
王壮谟时刻注意，水龙头的开关、厕所的门把手都没敢直接触摸。
Wang Zhuang Mu always pay attention to the faucet switch, toilet door handle dare not touch directly.
中午12点多，王壮谟马上要抵达荆州时，突然接到刘韶山的电话——由于交通管制，那批物资无法到达荆州，只能从潜江拖货。
At noon more than 12 o'clock, Wang Zhuang Mu was about to arrive in Jingzhou, suddenly received a call from Liu Shaoshan - due to traffic control, the goods could not reach Jingzhou, had to tow goods from the river.
这不仅意味着要多跑100多公里才能接上物资，更需要花费不少时间和精力去接受一道道路口关卡的交通检查。
Not only does this mean running more than 100 kilometres to get supplies, but it also takes a lot of time and effort to go through the traffic checkpoints.
单单在荆州高速路口，王壮谟就耽误了一个多小时。
In Jingzhou Expressway Junction alone, Wang Zhuangmei delay more than an hour.
二十多辆车在排队等待消毒，司机师傅挤在一个棚子里登记信息，王壮谟很怕交叉感染，穿好防护服戴好口罩才敢下去。
More than 20 vehicles are queuing up to disinfect, the driver crowded in a shed to register information, Wang Zhuangmei is afraid of cross-infection, wear protective clothing and wear masks before dare to go down.
下午两点多，王壮谟终于开到潜江，他按照导航奔着城区而去，却发现几乎所有的进城路口都被钢管封住，车辆无法通行。
More than 2: 00 pm, Wang finally drove to the river, he followed the navigation to the city, but found that almost all the urban intersections are blocked by steel pipes, vehicles are impassable.
他赶紧打电话给潜江本地朋友求助，在朋友的打听下，他找到了唯一一个可以进入潜江市区的路口。
He hastened to call Qianjiang local friends for help, in the friend's inquiry, he found the only access to the submarine city area intersection.
他再次遇到了一番询问盘查，在打了若干个电话，一一查验各种资料信息后，终于放行。
Once again he was questioned, made a number of phone calls, checked the various information, and finally released.
装好物资，王壮谟就往回赶。
Load good supplies, Wang Zhuangmei rushed back.
到恩施已是晚上，城里下起了大雾，能见度低，又是山路回环，王壮谟更加小心，不敢开太快，直到晚上将近9点多，这批物资终于拖了回来。
It was night when Enshi arrived. There was fog in the city, the visibility was low and the mountain road was turning back. Wang was more careful not to drive too fast.
一路下来，油费过路费总共1000多块钱，全是王壮谟自掏腰包，刘韶山本来想用募捐的资金给报销掉，但被王壮谟拒绝了。
Along the way, fuel tolls over 1000 yuan, all from Wang Zhuang Mu's own money, Liu Shaoshan would like to use the fund-raising funds to reimburse, but Wang Zhuangmei refused.
晚上八点多，英子姐还在等待物资。
Yingzi was still waiting for supplies at eight in the evening.
运回来的物资放到了英子姐自家小区楼下的一辆面包车上。
The returned goods were put in a van downstairs in Yizi's small community.
英子姐从2014年起做女性私护用品的微商代理，六年下来，她已经有了自己稳定的团队和营销渠道，2018年她还加入了恩施留守儿童关爱保护协会，点对点资助当地一些贫困儿童。
After six years as a microbusiness agent for female personal care products in 2014, she has had a stable team and marketing channel and joined Enshi's Child Care and Protection Association in 2018, offering peer-to-peer support to indigent local children.
疫情发生后，她很快就被拉入各种民间救助群中。
Soon after the outbreak, she was drawn into various civilian aid groups.
胆大心细的她自告奋勇把家里的面包车拿出来作临时中转仓库。
She volunteered the family van as a temporary transit warehouse.
那9000只口罩运抵后，英子姐就按照各医院的发放数目整理好，第二天一早，利川、巴东、来凤等县乡各医院的医护人员就陆续前来领取物资。
When the 9,000 masks arrived, Sister Yizi arranged them according to the number of hospital distributions. Early the next morning, medical staff from the hospitals in Lichuan, Padong and Leifeng came to collect the materials.
“他们物资真的很缺，不少医院都是开两个多小时车，只为领20个口罩。
"They're really short of supplies," he said. "Many hospitals drive more than two hours and get only 20 masks.
”医院开给英子姐的物资接收函。
The hospital sent a letter of receipt to Sister Yizi.
恩施来凤某医院从英子姐处领走物资。
A hospital in Enshi Leifeng collected materials from the Yizi sisters.
由于每天接触大量医护人员，英子姐都是防护服、护目镜、口罩全副武装，为了不浪费这紧缺的医护物资，英子姐穿上后就不得不一直待在楼下，怕邻居路过询问，她时常会搬个板凳坐在快递柜后面，不一会儿就冻得瑟瑟发抖，晚上上楼回到家自己累到不想说一句话。
She was armed with protective clothing, goggles and face masks. She had to stay downstairs so as not to waste the scarce medical supplies. She would often sit on a bench behind the express delivery cabinet. She soon shivered and came home at night too tired to say a word.
英子姐全副武装。
Sister Yizi was heavily armed.
前两天，家里儿子突然烧到37.2℃，英子姐心头一紧，“如果家人、小区里的人传染了，那我就是罪人了！”说着，她忍不住抽泣起来。
Two days ago, my son suddenly burned to 37.2 degrees Celsius, Yizi heart tight, "if the family, people in the community infected, then I am a sinner!" She could not help sobbing.
在援助中找回生活的 “意义感”并不是所有的志愿者都能坚持下去。
Not all volunteers stick to the "sense of meaning" of finding a life in aid.
连轴转的工作强度以及对能力专业度的要求，使不少人中途就退出了。
The intensity of the work of the coupling and the demand for competence and professionalism caused many people to drop out midway through.
白白之所以拖着疲惫的身体坚持在做，是觉得受到了“正向反馈”。
By dragging your tired body through the motions, you feel positive feedback.
这几天，群里再也不像前段时间那样天天有医院在发求助信息刷屏了，这种改善让她觉得自己做的事情能切切实实帮助到他们。
These days, the group is no longer as the daily hospital in the help screen, such an improvement in her feel that what she did can actually help them.
“身体再累，我也想再坚持一下。
"" I want to keep it up, too, if I'm tired.
”白白接受到的“正向反馈”。
"Positive feedback" was received in vain.
某乡镇医院感谢白白的爱心志愿服务。
A township hospital is grateful for free and loving volunteer service.
刘韶山则是觉得找到了“意义感”。
Liu Shaoshan, on the other hand, felt he had found "sense of meaning."
他在2014年开了家汽车装饰用品店，这五六年下来，投入和收入始终不成正比，又碰上这两年的经济不景气，2019年年底他下定决心关了店面，入职保险公司做销售。
He opened a car decorating store in 2014, and after five or six years in which input and income were not in direct proportion, the recession of the past two years led him to make up his mind to close his shop and start selling with an insurance company at the end of 2019.
他没想到，在职业上未曾有过的“成就感”，在这段时间里体会到了。
He did not expect to have a "sense of accomplishment" in his career, in this period of time to experience.
“当你能真正帮助到一个人的时候，你就会觉得做这件事情很了不起。
"When you really help someone, you think it's great to do it.
”疫情还在持续，人们都在盼望春天。
The epidemic continues, and people are looking forward to the spring.
过不了多久，这些因为爱心而聚集在一起的人们又会回到自己的生活和工作中去。
It won't be long before these people, united by love, return to their lives and jobs.
刘韶山有个愿望，等疫情结束后和这群绝大多数从未见过面的“志愿车队”车友们聚一聚，喝个酒，他在群里说：“疫情结束后，我们的故事才开始。
Liu Shaoshan had a wish to get together with the vast majority of volunteers who had never met and had a drink after the epidemic ended. He said in the group: "After the epidemic is over, our story begins.
”迪奥岑最近已经开始远程办公，她一边跟进着工作上的短视频策划项目，一边则构思着下一步的公益行动。
Diotsyn, who has recently started telecommuting, follows short-video projects at work while devising next steps for the public good.
她觉得这场灾难总会有过去的那一天，但那些在疫情中失去亲人的群体，心灵上的创伤却会一直都在。
She felt there would always be a day in the past, but for those who had lost loved ones to the epidemic, the psychological trauma would remain.
在她认识的志愿者中，有一个叫万庆的四川商人，舅舅因为新冠状病毒肺炎感染而去世，父母及所有亲戚都被隔离。
Among the volunteers she knew was a Sichuan businessman named Wanqing, who died of a coronavirus pneumonia and whose parents and all relatives were quarantined.
悲痛之下，万庆调动所有资源，亲自组织物流车队，给老家孝感捐赠了100万只国标医用口罩，而且现在还在陆陆续续给其他城市采购运送物资。
Grieved, Wan mobilized all the resources, personally organized logistics convoys, donated a million national standard medical masks to the sense of home filial piety, and is now gradually purchasing supplies for other cities.
“你说，像万大哥这样的人，他根本不缺钱，可是亲人走了，心里那道坎怎么过呢？”她想找些人，来做一个长期的温暖计划，关注并帮助这些受到心理创伤的人。
"You say, like Big Brother, he doesn't need money at all, but his family is gone, and how does he get along with it?" She wanted someone to make a long-term warm plan to care for and help these traumatized people.
白白则在盘算着自己的辣酱生意，她想节后先捐赠一批辣酱，“湖北人也挺爱吃辣的”。
She wants to donate some spicy sauces after the holiday. "Hubei people love spicy food," she said.
年前她刚租了两个新店面，已经付了租金，原本打算节后开始装修，现在只能等。
She had just rented two new storefronts a year ago, had paid the rent, had planned to start the renovation after the festival, and now had to wait.
“账面上的资金最多还能撑两三个月。
"There's a maximum of two or three months left on my books.
”不过有了这次经历，她总觉得天无绝人之路，“好人应该会有好报吧？”（应采访对象要求，迪奥岑、白白、孟黎、英子姐为化名。
But after this experience, she always felt that there was no one else in the world, "There should be a good return for the good guys, rightAt the request of the interviewee, Diozen, Bai, Meng Li and Yizi became aliases.
亦感谢“燃灯计划”志愿者臧新宇、罗先生提供的采访资料）-END-图文|陶叶，想用文字追赶时间。
Thanks also to Zang Xinyu, Mr. Zang Xinyu, a volunteer of the "Lighting Program," the interview materials provided by Mr. Luo - END-photo & amp; text & # 44; Ceramic Leaf and wants to catch up with the words.
华中科技大学出版社·武汉战“疫”数博馆抗击新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情作品资料正在征集中——【征集要求】＊来稿应为未公开发表和出版的内容，题材不限，VLOG、文字、图片等均可，务必客观真实，​反映疫情当下的民生现况及个人见闻；＊提供作品者都将获得华中科技大学出版社提供的“宅家悦读大礼包”；＊作品一旦录用，将提供完整规范的版权保护。
2007-9-19 15: 19 2007-11-19 14: 19 2007-11-19 15: 19 2007-11-19 15: 19 2007-06-19 09: 19 2007-06-19 09: 19 2007-06-17 09: 19 2007-06-12 09: 19: 40 2007-06-12 09: 19: 40 2007-06-19 19: 19 2008-12-19 17: 19 2008-11-19 17: 19
【投稿方式】音视频：2279281426@qq.com文字：423322329@qq.com图片：454578039@qq.com或点击下方链接直接投稿http://2019ncov.xiushewang.com/请务必留下真实姓名及详细联系方式。
Audio and Video: 2279281426 @ qq.com Text: 423322329 @ qq.com Photo: 454578039 @ qq.com or click the link below to contribute directly http: / / 2019ncov.xiushewang.com / Please make sure to leave your real name and contact details.
“我故”故事练习生培养计划，详情请戳：培养计划|加入“故事创造营”，你就是未来写作之星！About us主编：鹿｜本期编辑：鹿Contact us投稿/商务合作/咨询微信后台留言or 邮箱：wmsygsdr@163.com我们是有故事的人｜华中科技大学出版社官方故事平台。
I Am Here Story Training Program, for details: Join the Story Creation Camp, where you are the star of future writing! Deer Contacts / Business Collaboration / Consultation Letter Backstage Message or Mailbox: wmsygsdr @ 163.com We are storytellers, official story platform at HUST Press.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“燃灯计划”：他们输送物资、温暖与爱。
The Burning Light Program: They deliver supplies, warmth, and love.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "我们是有故事的人";。
Var nickname = & quot; We are someone with a story & quot;;
var msg_title = "“燃灯计划”：他们输送物资、温暖与爱";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "我相信，他们永远不会被遗忘。
var msg _ desc = & quot; I'm sure they'll never be forgotten.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="我们是有故事的人";。
Var title = & quot; We are someone with a story & quot;;
