这根救命稻草直径7毫米。
This straw is seven millimeters across.
张均斌 孙庆玲。
Zhang Junbin Sun Qingling.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
2月17日晚11点左右，赴武汉支援的上海华山医院麻醉科医生罗猛强（左一）与“插管敢死队”同事冯昌等人完成一例插管。
On February 17 around 11: 00 pm, Shanghai Huashan Hospital Anesthesiologist Luo Yongqiang (first left) and the "Jet Intubation Team" colleagues Feng Chang and others completed an intubation.
受访人供图作者|中青报·中青网记者张均斌 孙庆玲编辑|张国医生们清楚，一位新冠肺炎患者最危险的地方是口腔：口腔张开时，带有病毒的高浓度气溶胶会从气道喷涌而出。
Dr. Zhang Junbin, a journalist with Zhongqing Pneumonia, a journalist with Zhongqing Phenomenon, knows that the most dangerous place for a person with new crown pneumonia is in the oral cavity: When the mouth is open, high concentrations of aerosols with the virus are spewed out of the airway.
为呼吸困难者实施气管插管术的医生此时首当其冲，成为离险境最近的人。
Doctors who perform tracheal intubation for people with breathing difficulties are among the first to become the most at risk.
二三十厘米的距离，最大范围的暴露。
Distance of 20-30 cm, maximum exposure.
在武汉各大医院里，为插管组成的医生团队被称为“插管敢死队”。
In Wuhan's major hospitals, for the intubation of the team of doctors known as the "Jet Intubation Team."
这份工作需要如临大敌的谨慎，也需要一点视死如归的勇气。
The job requires caution on the part of an adversary and a bit of courage to see death as your own.
武汉市第一医院的一位“敢死队员”、麻醉科医生王加芳说，他得知医院要成立“插管敢死队”时，紧张得一晚上没有睡好。
Wang Gafang, an anesthesiologist and a "death squadron" from Wuhan First Hospital, said he was too nervous to sleep all night when he learned that the hospital was going to have a "death squad."
他很清楚风险：即便N95口罩过滤了95%的病毒，只要被病毒趁虚而入，剩下的5%就相当于100%。
He knows the risk: even if the N95 mask filters 95% of the virus, the remaining 5% is 100%.
在新冠肺炎诊疗中，气管插管是感染风险最高的一类操作。
In the diagnosis and treatment of new crown pneumonia, trachea intubation is the highest risk operation.
如果病人在此过程中发生呛咳，风险将明显增高——人类在餐桌上打一个喷嚏时，口腔飞沫就像疾驰的动车组列车，速度可达每小时177公里。
If the patient develops coughing in the process, the risk of choking becomes noticeably riskier - when humans sneeze at a table, the foam of the mouth acts like a speeding EMU train, reaching speeds of 177 kilometers per hour.
气管插管是每一位临床医生读大学时的必修课，但这次，医生们面临的患者数量前所未有。
Trachea intubation is a required course for every clinician at college, but this time doctors are facing an unprecedented number of patients.
王加芳的同事刘宇锋说，他很久没这么紧张了。
Wang's colleague, Liu Yufeng, says he hasn't been so nervous for a long time.
操作时他手心会冒汗，甚至会微微颤抖，“像回到了初学插管时的样子”。
The palms of his hands would sweat and even quiver slightly, "as if he had learned to intubate at first."
他从医19年，为一万多个病人插过管，几乎每天都有。
He worked as a doctor for 19 years, plugging more than 10,000 patients, almost every day.
报名成为“敢死队员”，他对这熟悉操作感到“心里打鼓”。
Signing up as a "death squadron," he said he was "heartened" by the familiarity.
（一）麻醉科医生手中，插管是一门日积月累熟能生巧的基本技能，日常每个动作几乎都是下意识的行为：给病人注射麻醉药品，打开口腔，伸进喉镜，喉镜会照出一片小小的阴影区，那是一个直径七八毫米的小洞，被称为声门，两条声带在声门两侧，透明软管往声带之间探去，不怎么费力，就能滑入呼吸道。
(1) In the hands of anesthesiologists, intubation is a basic skill that accumulates over the years. Almost every routine is a subconscious act: injecting the patient with narcotic drugs, opening the mouth and reaching into the laryngoscope.
内径7毫米、长度26厘米，这样一根透明软管接通氧气后，就是溺水者的一根救命稻草。
Inside diameter 7 mm, length 26 cm, such a transparent hose connected to oxygen, is a drowning person's life-saving straw.
如果患者是儿童，尺寸会更小一些，以便通过更窄的部位。
If the patient was a child, the size would be smaller to allow passage through a narrower area.
早期气管插管能够提高抢救的成功率。
Early tracheal intubation can improve the success rate of rescue.
国家卫生健康委员会2月4日发布的第五版诊疗指南，新增了及时进行气管插管的内容。
The fifth edition of the guidelines, issued by the National Council for Health and Hygiene on February 4, includes a new section on timely trachea intubation.
到武汉支援的国家应急医疗队成员、上海华山医院麻醉科医生罗猛强说，新冠肺炎危重症患者突出表现为呼吸衰竭伴顽固性低氧血症，往往必须依靠气管插管才能保住最后一线生机。
Luo Mengqiang, an anesthesiologist at Shanghai Huashan Hospital and a member of Wuhan-backed national emergency medical team, said the acute cases of Newcastle Pneumonia were characterized by respiratory failure accompanied by obstinate hypoxemia, and often had to rely on trachea cannula to keep their last breath.
国家卫健委的诊疗指南提倡“插管关口前移”，就是为了降低危重症患者病死率。
The National Fitness and Health Commission's diagnosis and treatment guidelines advocate "intubation pass forward" is to reduce the fatality rate of critically ill patients.
武汉市第一医院“插管敢死队”几位医生。
"Intubation Extinguishers" several doctors in Wuhan First Hospital.
受访人供图2月12日，武汉市第一医院被确定为新冠肺炎定点医院，开始接收危重症患者。
Feb. 12, Wuhan City Hospital No. 1 was confirmed as the new crown pneumonia designated hospital, began to accept critically ill patients.
医院决定组建一支团队专门负责插管，24小时待命。
The hospital decided to set up a team to be on call 24 hours a day.
17名麻醉科医生报了名。
Seventeen anaesthesiologists have signed up.
他们面对的都是新冠肺炎危重症患者，年龄大都在50岁到80岁之间，脑梗、高血压、糖尿病等基础性疾病及合并症众多。
They are facing severe cases of pneumonia, mostly aged between 50 and 80, with many basic diseases and complications such as cerebral infarction, high blood pressure and diabetes.
再加上受病毒折磨，病人的心肺功能已经受损，插管中的一个轻微刺激都可能导致病人加剧衰竭。
Combined with the virus, the patient's cardiopulmonary function has been impaired, and a minor stimulation of the intubation may cause further failure.
刘宇锋说，这种需要气管插管的病人一般是“重症之中的重症”，有些人见到时意识都已模糊。
The patients, who require endotracheal intubation, are generally "critically ill," Liu said, with some seeing a blurry of consciousness.
给他们插管，随时有可能导致他们血压下降过快，甚至心跳骤停。
Intubation could cause their blood pressure to drop too fast, or even their hearts to stop.
他用“搏一线生机”来描述自己的工作。
He described his work as a "shot in the dark."
根据中国疾控中心对截至2月11日4万多个确诊病例的研究，新冠肺炎总体病死率为2.3％。
According to a study by the China CDC of more than 40,000 confirmed cases as of February 11, the overall death rate for Newcrown Pneumonia was 2.3 percent.
确诊病例中，危重症患者占5％，但这类患者的病死率为49％。
Critical cases accounted for 5 per cent of confirmed cases, but the fatality rate for such patients was 49 per cent.
为了这一线生机，武汉市第一医院麻醉科特意编写了一份“插管流程”。
For this kind of vitality, Wuhan City first hospital anaesthesiology department specially prepared a "intubation flow."
医院专家组每天都会筛查一遍患者，将可能需要插管的患者的资料发给“敢死队员”，让他们提前了解。
Hospital experts screen patients once a day and send information about patients who may need an intubation to "JNB" to let them know in advance.
第一次值班前一晚，刘宇锋和搭档模拟演练到到夜里10点左右。
The night before his first duty, Liu and his partner rehearsed until around 10 p. m.
他们对着流程，把所有仪器都熟悉了一遍，一一清点了插管用具和药品，把能想到的突发情况也想了一遍。
They familiarized themselves with the flow of the instruments, counted the cannons and medicines, and thought over the unexpected.
他们需要万无一失。
They need to be foolproof.
2月16日，他们完成了全院第一例新冠肺炎患者气管插管的抢救工作，所幸，整个过程“一气呵成”。
Feb. 16, they completed the hospital's first case of tracheal intubation in patients with pneumonia, fortunately the whole process "in one go."
脱了防护服，刘宇锋深深吸了口气，在团队微信群里报了喜，这时候他才意识到，后背已经湿了一大片。
After taking off his protective clothing, Liu Yufeng took a deep breath and rejoiced in the group's microphone group when he realized that his back was wet.
（二）在这些病房里，呼吸至关重要。
(ii) Breathing is essential in these wards.
每次走进病房，王加芳就有股“窒息感”。
Every time I walk into the ward, Wang Jia Fang has a feeling of suffocation.
有的病人躺着一动不动，呼吸频率升到了每分钟三四十次，看着极为难受；有人会死死地按着供氧面罩，拼命配合呼吸机，每一口氧气都要充分利用。
Some patients lie motionless, breathing 30 or 40 times a minute, looking extremely miserable; others press their oxygen masks desperately to fit the ventilator, and make the most of every breath of oxygen.
“越看自己也越气闷，又担心病毒不知道会从哪里会钻进来，心里确实压力很大。
"The more I look at myself, the more stuffy I am, and I worry that I don't know where the virus will come from.
”王加芳说。
'said Wang.
平时，医院对插管医生的要求是接到任务，5分钟内必须赶到。
Normally, the hospital to the intubation doctor's request is received the assignment, must arrive within 5 minutes.
现在，时间被放宽到30分钟，多出的25分钟是给医生穿戴各种防护装备用的。
Now, the time is relaxed to 30 minutes, the extra 25 minutes are for doctors to wear a variety of protective equipment.
插管医生的装备。
Intubation doctor's equipment.
受访人供图作为离患者口腔最近的人，插管医生采取了医护人员最高级别的防护。
As the closest person to the patient's mouth, the intubation doctor took the highest level of protection from the medical staff.
除了防护服、隔离衣、护目镜、口罩，武汉市第一医院唯一一套正压防护头套给了“插管敢死队”，谁负责插管就给谁用。
In addition to protective clothing, paraphernalia, goggles, masks, Wuhan City No. 1 Hospital the only set of positive pressure protective headgear to the "intubation death squads," who is responsible for the intubation to use.
由于内外气压差，病毒几乎不可能进入正压头罩内。
Due to internal and external pressure differences, the virus is almost impossible to enter the positive pressure head cover.
头罩还外接了一套新风系统，保证医生呼吸顺畅的同时，也避免护目镜起雾影响视线。
The hood is also fitted with a new air system to ensure smooth breathing for the doctor while avoiding the fog of the goggles from affecting vision.
“病人是等不起的，我们也想尽办法，尽量让我们的整个流程快一点。
"Patients can't afford to wait, and we're trying to make the whole process as fast as we can.
我们快一分钟，病人就多一份希望。
One minute we move, one more hope for the patient.
”王加芳参与编写了医院的插管流程，他参考了多家医院的做法，把能压缩的时间都压缩了，但防护这块，不敢有丝毫马虎。
Wang, who helped write the hospital's intubation system, referred to several hospitals and compressed the time it took to compress it, but didn't dare to slacken it.
从进入病房开始，王加芳就会在心里计算时间。
From entering the ward, Wang Jiafang will calculate the time in his mind.
他很不喜欢身上这些防护装备，身体被防护服裹着，妨碍进行精细的插管操作。
He did not like the protective gear and his body was wrapped in protective clothing, which prevented him from performing delicate intubation operations.
想抢时间，全靠集中精力和手上功夫。
To make the most of your time, focus and work.
为了节省时间，他们会把药品放在触手可及之处，都已提前配好并吸入了注射器，随时可以注入病人体内。
To save time, they put the drug within easy reach, pre-assembled and inhaled syringes, ready to be injected into the patient.
罗猛强说，气管插管时通常需要镇静剂，让病人入睡，然后使用一种高危的肌肉松弛药，以避免患者出现呛咳，但这也会使抢救的时间窗缩窄。
Mr. Luo says trachea intubation usually requires a sedative to put the patient to sleep and a high-risk muscle relaxant is used to prevent the patient from coughing, but it also narrows the window.
所以，气管插管某种程度上有“黄金1分钟”一说，这1分钟无论对挽救生命还是医生自身安全都十分关键。
So the idea that the trachea is somehow "golden a minute" is crucial to saving lives and the doctor's own safety.
另一个说法是“黄金90秒”——从注射麻醉药开始到插完管，控制在90秒之内，否则就可能导致病人缺氧而死。
Another expression is "golden 90 seconds" - from the start of the injection to the end of the tube, control within 90 seconds, or else the patient may die from lack of oxygen.
“其实核心操作的黄金时间其实只有30秒。
"The prime time for core operations is only 30 seconds.
气道多开放一秒，患者及医护人员就多一秒的危险。
Open the airway more second, the patient and the medical staff more second danger.
所以能10秒内完成，我们绝不会拖到20秒。
So we can do it in 10 seconds. We're never gonna take 20 seconds.
”罗猛强说。
"said Luo Mengqiang.
他说，每插完一次管，自己会紧张到心率从每分钟七八十次升至一百三四十次，体能消耗巨大。
At the end of each tube, he says, his heart rate rises from seventy to one hundred and thirty-four beats per minute.
（三）插管时，医生们最大的担心是病人可能心跳骤停。
(iii) During intubation, the greatest concern of doctors is that the patient may have a cardiac arrest.
肌肉松弛药的作用是抑制呼吸，用药后只要一分钟左右，患者就会无法自主呼吸。
Muscle relaxants inhibit respiration, and it takes only a minute or so for a patient to become unable to breathe on their own.
这些医生平时插管不常用到，给新冠肺炎患者使用主要是为了改善插管条件，减少病人发生呛咳的几率，便于在最短时间内一次成功。
These doctors usually do not often intubation, the new crown pneumonia patients mainly to improve the conditions of intubation, reduce the risk of cough patients in the shortest possible time to a successful.
注射肌肉松弛药是让王加芳最紧张的环节，病人自主呼吸被抑制后，全靠身体里的储氧支撑，新冠肺炎患者由于心肺功能受损叠加身体状况不佳，储氧只有常人的三分之一左右。
Injection of muscle relaxants is the most stressful part of Wang Jiafang. After the patient's autonomous breathing is inhibited, he relies on the oxygen stored in his body.
“用药后，他们的血压心率波动会比常人大得多，特别是一些敏感的人，甚至你一推药，心脏就有停跳的风险。
"Their blood pressure heart rate fluctuates a lot after taking the drug, especially in sensitive people, and even when you push it, the heart is at risk of stopping," he said
”插管时，王加芳需要时刻注意病床边的心电监护仪，用药半分钟左右，监护仪就会显示变化。
When intubating, Wang needs to keep an eye on the electrocardiograph next to the bed, and the monitor changes in about half a minute.
“它的声音是种警示，血氧饱和度越低，监护仪发出的声音越低沉。
"Its voice is a warning, and the lower the blood oxygen saturation, the lower the sound of the monitor.
”王加芳能接受病人的血氧饱和度在20%之内浮动，如果波动超过30%，不用等到一分钟，他也随时准备插管。
Wang can accept that a patient's blood oxygen saturation fluctuates within 20 percent, and if the fluctuation exceeds 30 percent, he is ready to intubate without waiting for a minute.
他怕听见监护仪低沉的报警音，有些病人推完药后，血氧饱和度一直往下降，心率却快速上涨，如果不及时干预，心脏很快就会“熄火”。
He was afraid to hear the low alarms of the monitor, the oxygen saturation of the blood continued to drop in some patients after pushing the medication, but his heart rate rose rapidly.
药物起效后，留给插管医生的时间最多只剩30秒了，可口腔内还有麻烦在等着他们。
With only 30 seconds to go until the medication takes effect, there is still trouble waiting in their mouths.
新冠肺炎患者口腔内都有痰液，尤其是重症患者，痰液多而粘稠。
There is phlegm in oral cavity of new crown pneumonia patient, especially serious patient, sputum fluid is many and thick.
刘宇锋遇到过一位患者，痰液粘稠到拿吸痰器吸，费了好大劲。
Liu Yufeng encountered a patient, sputum thick enough to take the sputum inhaler, with a lot of effort.
“痰液会堵住气管，如果这时候把导管插进去的话，痰液堵在气管里面排不出来，也会引起病人的窒息。
"The sputum can clog the trachea, and if the catheter is inserted, the sputum will not come out of the trachea, causing the patient to choke.
”那一次，留给刘宇锋插管的时间只有五六秒钟，插进导管的那一刻，他感觉全身都快虚脱了。
That time, Liu was left with only five or six seconds to intubate, and the moment he inserted the catheter, he felt as if he were almost exhausted.
（四）新冠病毒是个“狡猾”的敌人。
The New Crown Virus is a "tricky" enemy.
罗猛强介绍，传统呼吸衰竭的患者往往会伴随有明显的呼吸窘迫等症状，但一些新冠肺炎患者有突然加速但临床表现相对“沉默”的倾向。
Luo said patients with traditional respiratory failure often have obvious symptoms such as respiratory distress, but some patients with new crown pneumonia have the tendency of sudden acceleration but the clinical manifestation is relatively "silent."
部分病情平稳的患者，血氧饱和度会断崖式下降，成为危重症患者。
Some patients with stable disease, blood oxygen saturation will fall off the cliff, become critical patients.
因此，他认为，对患者进行严密监测尤为重要，接受氧气治疗的患者，哪怕是去吃饭、去洗手间等非常短暂的时间都不应间断。
Therefore, he believes that close monitoring of patients is particularly important and that patients receiving oxygen therapy, even for very short periods of time, such as eating and going to the toilet, should not be interrupted.
罗猛强现在是武汉同济医院光谷院区“插管先锋队”队员。
Luo Yongqiang is now Wuhan Tongji Hospital Guanggu courtyard area "Intubation Pioneer Team."
他所在的上海华山医院接管了武汉同济医院光谷院区重症监护病房。
His home in Shanghai Huashan Hospital took over the intensive care unit in the Guanggu courtyard of Wuhan Tongji Hospital.
重症监护病房集中了最危重患者，接受气管插管的患者高达80%-90%。
Intensive care units concentrate on the most critical patients, with up to 80 per cent to 90 per cent receiving endotracheal intubation.
让他和同事们感到“欢欣鼓舞”的是，有的患者在插管后，经过积极治疗，身体明显好转，后来顺利拔除了那根管子，康复机会由渺茫转为光明。
To his and colleagues' delight, some patients, after active treatment after an intubation, apparently improved and later successfully pulled out the tube, turning their chances of recovery from a remote to a bright one.
“在这个最危险而关键的时刻由麻醉医师来执行气管插管的任务是责无旁贷的。
"At this most dangerous and critical moment, it is incumbent upon the anesthesiologist to perform the task of intubation.
”罗猛强说，“一想到自己的专业所长能够在患者生命中艰难时刻帮他们度过难关，便觉得义不容辞了，我想这也是自己作为一位医务工作者的初心。
'I think it's incumbent upon me to think of my professional expertise in helping patients through difficult times in their lives, 'he said.
”有一次，武汉同济医院麻醉医生王楠为一名患者插管，大约过了十几分钟，她发现患者心率突然从每分钟110次降至30多次，而且有继续下降的趋势。
Once Wang Nan, an anaesthetist at Wuhan Tongji Hospital, intubated a patient. About a decade later, she noticed that her heart rate had suddenly dropped from 110 to more than 30 per minute, and was on a downward trend.
她没多想，上去就给病人进行胸外心脏按压。
Without thinking about it, she went up and gave the patient extra-thoracic heart pressure.
按压2分钟后，随着急救药物起效，患者心率逐渐恢复正常。
After 2 minutes of compression, the heart rate gradually returned to normal as the first aid took effect.
这一举动看似寻常，在高浓度病毒的空间中可以算是“危险动作”，动作幅度太大、太快都易造成防护服破损，但她说：“当时情况紧急，我只是想着不能让病人的心跳停了。
This move seems common and can be considered a "dangerous move" in a highly concentrated viral space, where moving too far and too fast can easily cause breakage, but she said: "It was an emergency and I was just thinking about not stopping the patient's heart rate.
”武汉市第一医院麻醉医生戚忠说，和病人的性命相比，“自己有可能被感染”这件事就显得不那么重要了。
Qizhong, an anesthesiologist at Wuhan's First Hospital, said the fact that he might be infected was less important than the patient's life.
他说，自己还年轻，就算不幸被感染，牺牲的概率也比较小，但“我这根管插进去，他可能就挺过来了”，这么算，为病人搏一搏还是“值”。
He said he was young and less likely to die if he was unlucky enough to get infected, but "I put this tube in and he might get through it," he said.
戚忠第一天值班，就经历了一起意外。
Qizhong had an accident on his first day on duty.
一位60多岁的病人插管40多分钟后，突然发生呛咳，软管脱落了。
After more than 40 minutes of intubation, a patient in his sixties suddenly developed a cough and the hose fell off.
等他再次穿戴完防护装备，急急赶到病房时，眼前的场景让他又感动又后怕：管床医生一直拖着呼吸机的面罩帮助病人呼吸，“手都已经僵硬了还在坚持”。
As he hurried to the hospital room wearing protective gear again, he was struck by the sight: The tube-bed surgeon was dragging the ventilator's mask to help the patient breathe.
那位医生只有普通防护装备，“不像我们有面屏还有正压头套，徒手操作那个，感染的风险是极高的。
The doctor had only the usual protective gear. "Unlike our face screens and positive-pressure headgear, the risk of infection is very high with bare hands.
”戚忠赶紧接过了管床医生的活，让他去消毒清洗。
Qizhong hastened to take over the work of the doctor in charge of the bed and let him disinfect and clean it.
他说，这个病人能救回来得多谢管床医生。
He said the patient could be saved thanks to a bed warden.
当时，抑制呼吸的药品没有代谢完，病人肺功能原本就较差，自主呼吸很弱，如果没人在旁边供氧，几分钟内就会死去。
At the time, the drugs that inhibit respiration were not metabolized, the patient's lung function was already poor, his breathing was weak, and he died within minutes if no one was nearby to provide oxygen.
事后，戚忠每次回忆此事，都会心跳加速。
After the event, Qizhong will recall this matter, the heart rate will accelerate.
（五）一位新冠肺炎病人需要插管时，情况大同小异：病房里原本十分平静，可以辨别出病人微弱的呼吸声混杂着仪器的电流声，直到“嘟嘟嘟”的报警声响起，随后是匆忙的脚步。
(5) When a patient with pneumonia required an intubation, the situation was much the same: the room was calm enough to recognize the patient's feeble breathing mixed with the sound of the instrument's electrical current until the beeps sounded, followed by hurried steps.
插管医生带来“救命稻草”。
The intubation doctor brought the straw.
戚忠一直觉得，这些病人“大限不该到”，只要在病人肺功能最差的时候帮一把，把血氧饱和度控制住，病人自身免疫系统扛过来，他们就能留在人世间。
Qizhong has always felt that these patients "should not arrive," as long as the patient's lung function is the worst time to help, the blood oxygen saturation control, the patients own immune system to carry over, they can stay in the world.
“我们仅仅是为他保留住了生存下去的希望，后续还有更多的治疗等待着他们。
"We just saved him the hope of survival, and then there was more treatment waiting for him.
”罗猛强说，他们只是开了个头。
'said Luo Meng-qiang.
刘宇锋医生。
Dr. Liu Yufeng.
受访人供图刘宇锋希望自己经手的每个病人都能挺过来，看着病人的嘴唇从青紫变成红润，他心里会轻松些。
The interviewee told Liu that he hoped that each patient he handled would survive, and that he would be relieved to see his patient's lips turn from bluish to rosy.
他原本有充分的理由待在家里。
He had every reason to stay at home.
他妻子是武汉协和医院医生，一直在前线，没有回家。
His wife, a doctor at Wuhan Hsiao He Hospital, had been on the front line and had not returned home.
他需要照顾每晚“哭着醒来喊妈妈”的两个学龄前孩子。
He has to take care of two preschoolers who "wake up crying" every night.
同事也劝他别急着报名参加“插管敢死队”。
Colleagues also advised him not to sign up for the "Intubation Squad."
作出决定后，他没敢告诉父母，给妻子打了电话。
After making his decision, he dared not tell his parents and telephoned his wife.
他记得，两个人在电话里沉默了一会儿，互相说了句“保重”。
He remembers the two men being silent on the phone for a moment and saying "take care of" to each other.
刘宇锋想的是，“总得有人上的，哪个家里没老没小？”他没有想过妻子会不会赞同——“她不会的，我也懂她。
What Liu Feng thought was, "Somebody has to go up, who is old and not young?" He didn't think his wife would agree - "She won't, and I know her, too.
”武汉的气温正在回升，春天到了。
Wuhan is warming up, and spring is here.
等到疫情解除，他希望能陪家人出去踏青、放放风筝。
By the time the outbreak was over, he hoped to be able to accompany his family on trips and fly kites.
而现在，他无暇他顾，说起“想帮小孩换张尿布都换不了”时会皱起眉头。
Now he has no time to frown when he says he can't change a diaper for a child.
他抽空会跟家人视频聊天，也因此知道，5岁的大女儿从幼儿园老师那里听说医生是了不起的职业后，画了一幅画，想送给家里的医生。
After learning from his kindergarten teacher that doctors were a great career, the five-year-old drew a picture and wanted to give it to his family doctor.
这对夫妻在电话里约定：“尽早把战役打完，我们一起回家。
The couple agreed on the phone: "Fight as soon as possible and let's go home together.
”34岁的武汉市中心医院医生李文亮去世，对一线医护人员影响很大。
The death of Li Wenliang, a 34-year-old doctor at Wuhan Central Hospital, has had a big impact on front-line medical staff.
“他是我们同行，又这么年轻，我们原来以为这个病对年轻人是不致命的。
'He's a fellow-traveller, and so young, and we thought the disease was not fatal to young men.
”王加芳说，“你想都是在一线工作的，不知道下一个感染的是谁呀。
"You think you're working on the front line and don't know who's going to get the next infection," Wang said.
”但他还是加入了这群离病毒最近的人当中——“病人在等，先救人，其它的之后再考虑吧。
But he joined the group of people closest to the virus - "Patients are waiting, save people first, and think about the rest later.
”*本文由中国青年报独立出品，首发在中国青年报客户端及头条号，加入树木计划。
* This article was produced independently by China Youth Daily and was first published in the China Youth Daily client and headline number to join the Tree Program.
中国青年报·中国青年网出品。
China Youth Daily, China Youth Net.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
这根救命稻草直径7毫米。
This straw is seven millimeters across.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "这根救命稻草直径7毫米";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; with a straw diameter of 7 mm;;
var msg_desc = "离病毒最近的人";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; the person nearest to the virus;;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
