考试族在这个春天踏空。
The examiners are stepping out this spring.
王梓涵 马延君。
Wang Zihan Ma Yan Jun.
真实故事计划                      。
The real story plan.
真实故事计划。
The real story plan.
每天一个打动人心的原创真实故事。
An original and true story that touches the heart every day.
。
.
考试是青少年们进步的阶梯。
Examinations are a stepping stone to the progress of teenagers.
考研复试、托福、雅思、专升本，现在都面临延期或取消，这背后是数以百万计的考生们，在攀登的阶梯上忽然踏空。
For the second time, the IELTS, IELTS and TOEFL iBT are now facing delays or cancellations. Behind them are millions of candidates, suddenly stepping on the climbing stairs.
漫长的备考，近在眼前的终点猛然消失，这些上进的考生们该如何调整人生目标，在这段特殊的空白期，他们有着怎样的反思与改变。
How do these aspirant candidates adjust their life goals, and what kind of reflections and changes they will have during this particular gap period?
王灏宇 2020届研究生入学考试考生考研复试推迟，我不知道怎么计划将来过年在家，看到疫情逐渐蔓延，媒体建议大家不要外出的消息时，我就预料到考研复试会被推迟。
I did not know how to plan for the coming New Year. Seeing the spread of the disease and the media advising people not to go out, I expected the examination to be put off.
接到延期通知时，心情好坏参半，好的是能有更多时间准备复试，坏的是心里也更加煎熬。
When notified of the extension, the mood was mixed. Fortunately, I had more time to prepare for the reexamination.
决定考研是因为有些意难平，我高考时发挥失常，原本可以考上本省985学校，最后只考上了一所双非院校，所以决定利用考研拼一把。
In the end, I just got into a two-level non-college, so I decided to make use of the postgraduate entrance examination.
2019届考研初试后我就了开始准备。
I started to prepare for the 2019 exam after my first test.
大四时，我过着三点一线的生活。
In my senior year, I lived a three-tiered life.
每天七点半起床，到食堂吃饭，八点一刻到图书馆学习，中午回宿舍睡半小时午觉，再回到图书馆继续学习，一直到晚上十点一刻闭馆。
I get up at 7: 30 every day, eat in the canteen, study in the library at a quarter to eight, take a nap in the dorm for half an hour at noon, and go back to the library to continue studying until a quarter past ten in the evening.
图|在家复习研究生考试为了考研，我断掉不必要的社交和所有的爱好，最爱的游戏也卸载了。
For the postgraduate entrance examination, I broke up all my unnecessary socializing and hobbies, and uninstalled my favorite games.
有时真的很累，由内而外的疲惫，觉得生活好枯燥。
Sometimes really tired, from the inside out tired, feel that life is very boring.
有天早上，我在食堂吃早餐，心里突然就很憋闷，喘不过气，就任性地买了一张电影票，大早上一个人跑去看了《夏目友人帐》。
One morning, I had breakfast in the canteen, my heart suddenly suffocated, out of breath, so wayward to buy a movie ticket, in the morning a person went to see "Summer friends account."
看完心里才舒服一点，又赶紧跑去复习。
After reading the heart just a little more comfortable, and rushed to review.
我是典型的“拖延症患者”，完成目标需要deadline逼一把。
I'm a typical procrastinator, and achieving my goals requires a push from deadline.
现在复试的具体安排没有出来，我就少了紧迫感，没有目标和动力去学习。
Now the detailed arrangements for the second test did not come out, I have less sense of urgency, no goals and motivation to learn.
这场疫情让正常生活充满了不确定性，原本确定的路标也没了，所以我每天都浑浑噩噩，复习的事情一拖再拖。
The epidemic has left life uncertain and the signs of progress gone, so I shuffle through my review every day.
因为疫情，我也没法回学校。
I can't go back to school because of the epidemic.
有些复习资料放在学校没带回家，复习起来就很受限。
Some review materials in school did not take home, review is very limited.
获奖证书、成绩单也都放在学校了，找导师也比较麻烦。
Award-winning certificates, report cards are also placed in the school, find mentors are also more troublesome.
而且复试推迟后会撞上毕业设计，在时间上如何权衡也是一个问题。
And the second test after the delay will collide with graduation design, in the timing of how to weigh is also a problem.
我的毕业设计有关超磁材料，我需要阅读文献、设计模型、优化模型等等，这些过程的准备跟复试准备是并行的，时间很紧迫。
My graduation project is about supermagnetic materials. I need to read literature, design models, optimization models, and so on. The preparation of these processes goes hand in hand with the preparation for the second test.
现在复试的具体时间和毕业设计的相关通知都没发布，一切都是未知数，我不知道怎么计划将来，只能等。
Now the specific time and graduation design of the re-examination notice has not been published, everything is unknown, I do not know how to plan for the future, can only wait.
这段时间每天晚上都失眠，一闭上眼睛，脑海里就充斥着考研复试、专业缩招、毕业设计等各种事情，很煎熬。
This time every night insomnia, a closed eyes, mind is full of re-examination, professional contraction, graduation design and other things, very torment.
就怕疫情好转后，生活回到日常，所有通知如期而至，我没来得及准备好。
I was afraid that life would return to normal after the epidemic had improved, and that all the announcements would come and I wasn't ready.
这种心情就像在起跑线等待令枪响的运动员一样，心一直悬着，只有听到枪响，才能开始奔跑，然而枪迟迟未响。
It was like waiting at the starting line for a gun to go off. The heart kept dangling. Only when the gun was fired could it begin to run, but the gun did not go off.
蔡梓珊 2020届专升本考试考生专升本考试延期后，我大哭了一场2月8号下午，朋友发来消息：“如果推迟得太久我就不考了，反正以后也是回家工作，专科、本科也没什么区别。
Cai Zishan 2020 post-secondary examination candidates postponed, I cried a February 8 afternoon, friends sent a message: "If you delay too long I will not take the test, anyway is also home to work, specialty, undergraduate no difference.
”我开玩笑般回了一句：“人类的悲喜果然并不相通。
"I replied, jokingly," There is no such thing as human joking.
”我没有回家工作的退路，也做不到她那么洒脱，通过专升本考试是我面前唯一的独木桥。
"I didn't have the escape route home to work, nor did I get as free as she did, passing the entrance exam being the only one in front of me.
为了这场考试，我已经准备了小半年，或者可以说更久。
I have been preparing for this exam for half a year, or even longer.
2017年，我从县城高中考入本省一所专科学校的财会专业。
In 2017, I was admitted from the county high school to a college accounting major in the province.
小县城教育资源并不好，许多学生和我一样，努力了三年只能考上普通大学或专科，毕业后匆匆工作，很少有人继续深造。
Small county education resources are not good, many students like me, three years of efforts can only be admitted to ordinary universities or colleges, after graduation hurried work, few people continue their education.
入学后，我经常会刷微博和知乎，有时觉得自己和网上的同龄人生活在两个世界，我羡慕他们能在名校接受教育，拥有更广阔的视野。
After entering school, I often brush Weibo and know-how, sometimes feel that I live in two worlds with my peers on the Internet. I envy them that they can receive an education in a famous school and have a wider perspective.
再加上随便一家公司招聘都要本科以上学历，所以我早早定下参加专升本考试的计划。
In addition to any one of the companies to recruit more than undergraduate degree, so I early plan to take the matriculation test.
大一时我很少缺课，到了大二我很早便开始准备英语，因为基础很差，也没有钱参加课外辅导，我只能用最笨的方法每天坚持早读、背单词、做习题。
In my sophomore year, I began to prepare English very early. Because of my poor foundation and lack of money for extracurricular tutoring, I had to do morning reading, memorizing words and doing exercises every day in the dumbest way possible.
有时看到网上有人说专升本考试很水，英语也不过是四级难度，我心里难免难过。
Sometimes I see people on the Internet said that the exam is very water, English is only four levels of difficulty, I can not help feeling sad.
像我这样农村出身的学生，想弥补教育差距，是要用尽全力的。
Students like me from rural areas who want to make up for the educational gap should try their best.
图|英语单词册为了专升本考试，我成了图书馆常客，同学们休息时常会出去逛街，我从没参与过。
For the college entrance exam, I became a frequent library visitor. My classmates used to go shopping when they rested. I never took part in it.
其实我最羡慕的还是节假日能去做兼职的人，每天一两百块钱，能为家里减轻不少负担。
In fact, I envy or holiday to do part-time people, a day or two hundred dollars, can alleviate a lot of burden at home.
可是2月刚开始，备考群里就流传着考试可能会延期的推测，各种小道消息传来传去，看得我心慌。
However, the beginning of February, the test in the spread of the test may be postponed speculation, a variety of rumors around, let me panic.
当时已经有各类考试延期的公告陆续发布，我不知道专升本是否会受影响，如果延期了我要如何应对。
At that time, there have been various kinds of extension of the announcement, I do not know whether the upgrade will be affected, if I have to deal with the delay.
我在不确定的状态下挣扎了几天，每天都会搜索考试和疫情的相关消息，期盼着有天醒来能看到疫情彻底结束，一切照常进行。
I struggled for days in an uncertain state, searching every day for information about the test and the outbreak, hoping one day I would wake up and see that the epidemic was over and everything would be as usual.
毕竟如果考试延期，各种变数都会增加，我不确定自己能否稳住心态，也不知道如果考不上，马上就要毕业，我拿着一张专科证书怎么找工作。
After all, if the exam is postponed, the variables will increase, and I'm not sure if I can hold my peace of mind, or how I can get a job with a college degree if I don't get into college and will graduate soon.
2月8号，同学往群里发了一张公告截图，说是考试确定延期，具体时间未定。
Feb. 8, students to the group issued a screenshot of the announcement, said that the examination is scheduled to be postponed, the specific time has not been determined.
我立刻跑到电脑前，一看到招生官网上的通知就哭了。
I immediately ran to the computer and cried as soon as I saw the sign on the admissions officer's website.
我也不知道自己怎么了，也许是多日的忐忑终于等到结果，也许是这几天一直看新闻心里太压抑，眼泪止不住地往下掉。
I also do not know how, perhaps is many days of perturbed finally wait for the result, perhaps these days have been watching the news heart too depressed, tears can not stop falling down.
群里消息不断，有人担心如果拖的时间太长和毕业撞车，有人抱怨耽误了他接下来的计划，还有人庆幸地说：“还好延期了，我还没背完呢。
There was a lot of news in the group, people were worried that if they dragged on too long and crashed after graduation, someone complained about the delay in his next plan, and some said happily, "It's OK, I'm not finished.
” 朋友私聊问我心情怎么样，有什么打算？我想了想只能告诉她：“太突然了，有点懵，还不知道接下来怎么办。
My friend privately asked me how I was feeling and what I was going to do.I thought about it and could only tell her: "Too sudden, a little stunned, not knowing what to do next.
”确定的考试时间突然被推迟，就像下楼梯时突然踏空，心里难免会闪一下。
A sudden postponement of the scheduled time for the exam is like walking down a flight of stairs with a flash in your mind.
准备了这么久，考试近在眼前又消失，给人感觉空落落的，不知道该去哪里抓把手。
After so much preparation, the exam is near and disappears, giving people a feeling of emptiness, not knowing where to grab the handle.
那天晚上，我想了很久，还是在朋友圈发了一句话：“有人住高楼，有人在深沟，继续努力，不能回头。
That night, I thought for a long time, or in the circle of friends made a remark: "Someone living in a high-rise, someone in the trench, continue to work hard, can not turn back.
”周婉清 2020届国家公务员考试考生疫情后，我想成为一名公务员前几天戴着口罩在小区里跑步，因为呼吸倒不过来我差点晕倒。
After Zhou Wanqing's 2020 national civil service exam, I wanted to be a civil servant running around the neighborhood wearing a mask the other day because I nearly fainted after losing my breath.
如果不是这场疫情，我应该正在附近中学的操场上正常训练。
If it hadn't been for the outbreak, I would have been training on the playground of a nearby high school.
我将在今年6月份毕业，因为家里人从事警察工作，我一直觉得警察类职业很正义，所以去年10月份报考了国家公务员考试的警察岗位。
I will graduate in June this year, and since my family is in the police force and I have always felt that the police profession is just, I applied for the national civil service exam last October.
警察岗位相较于其他岗位多了体能考核这一关，我身体素质不太好，从小就不爱运动，大学体测800米是我每年一度的噩梦。
Compared to other police posts more physical assessment, I am not very good health, since childhood do not love sports, the University body test 800 meters is my annual nightmare.
因为这个，报考时身边朋友都很惊讶，但我家里人很支持。
Because of this, the friends are very surprised to register for the examination, but my family is very supportive.
1月8号通过笔试后，我开始有计划地训练体能，准备2月参加第二轮面试考核，再参加体能测试，如果都顺利通过，体检之后就可以入职了。
After passing the written test on January 8, I began to train in a planned way, preparing for the second interview in February and then taking the physical fitness test.
一月中旬，和朋友聊天说到“武汉肺炎”，我们还觉得这事很遥远。
In mid-January, talking to friends about Wuhan Pneumonia, we thought it was very far away.
没想到十几天后我突然收到通知：国考面试要推迟了。
I did not expect ten days later I received a sudden notice: the national examination interview has to be postponed.
常规来说，2月中旬面试会陆续开始，但现在一切以抗疫为主，新的面试时间还不确定。
As a rule, interviews will begin in mid-February, but now everything is dominated by fighting the disease, with new interview times uncertain.
之前的复习计划要因此重新安排，而且不知道新的面试通知何时下发，会不会很突然，不知道自己还有多少复习时间，这让我有些被动。
The previous review plan had to be rescheduled, and I did not know when the new interview notice would be given, whether it would be sudden, and how much time I still had to review.
为了这场考试，我从大三下学期开始准备，上午学行测，下午做申论，晚上听解析课，每天能学10小时，同时还要抽空去跑步。
For this exam, I began to prepare from the junior term, morning test, afternoon to do essay, night listening to resolution classes, can learn 10 hours a day, and also take time to run.
有一个月我的成绩突破不了，吃饭时越想越害怕突然哭了起来。
There was a month when I couldn't break through my grades, and the more I tried to eat, the more I was afraid to burst into tears.
家里人安慰我，把考试当作尽力去做的一件事就好，第一次可以当做经验积累。
The family comforted me by thinking of the exam as something to be done as hard as possible, the first time as an accumulation of experience.
他们的话给了我很大的鼓励，心态稳定下来，成绩才渐渐有了突破。
Their words gave me a great deal of encouragement, the mentality stabilized, the results gradually have a breakthrough.
但现在因为疫情，我只能待在家里，看线上课程，做面试准备，戴着口罩做体能训练。
But now because of the epidemic, I can only stay at home, watch online classes, do interview preparation, wear masks for physical training.
图|体能训练记录我现在基本每天跑3公里，有时候会加上800米的训练。
I now basically run 3 kilometres a day, sometimes with 800 metres of training.
因为新的考试公告还没出，也不知道体能测试有没有变化，我都还是以长跑为主。
Because the new test announcement has not yet come out, and do not know whether the physical fitness test has changed, I still rely on long-distance running.
也考虑过如果面试失败该怎么办，我想我会继续考公务员。
Also considered what to do if the interview failed, I think I will continue to test civil servants.
我本身是认定了要做一件事就要努力去达成它的人，我把这视为对自己能力的挑战和证明，不希望自己因为一次失败就放弃这个选择。
I have identified the person who has to work hard to achieve something. I see this as a challenge and proof of my own ability and do not want to give up the choice because of one failure.
张乐山 原2020年3月份托福考试考生托福五月再考，我必须一击即中三月这场托福考试是我出国读研计划中的一环，一旦打乱，后续会造成一堆麻烦。
The TOEFL exam in mid-March is part of my plan to go abroad for postgraduate studies. If disrupted, it will cause a lot of trouble.
出国读书这件事，一方面是家里的想法，另一方面也是我专业上的需求。
The idea of going abroad to study is on the one hand a family idea, on the other hand is my professional needs.
我学的是数媒影视，无论未来做导演方向，还是特效方向，乃至于制片、营销等等，去美国读书都是最好的选择。
I am learning digital film, no matter the direction of future directors, or special effects, and even production, marketing, and so on, to study in the United States is the best choice.
为了能顺利录上理想的院校，我大三就开始准备。
In order to be able to successfully record the ideal college, I began to prepare junior high school.
语言是比较难过的一关，去年十月中旬，我开始准备托福考试，今年一月份考了第一次，想先体验一下考试环境和真题，再对照第一次的成绩，反省哪一项需要着重关注，哪一项只需稍作补充。
In the middle of October last year, I began to prepare for my TOEFL exam. In January, I took my first exam. I was able to experience the environment and the problems in my English test.
图|正在进行的托福网课第一次考完，我知道了自己的水平和问题，接着就报了三月的托福考试，打算第二次能冲多高冲多高。
At the end of my first TOEFL test, I learned about my qualifications and problems, and then reported for my TOEFL exam in March, hoping to jump as high as I could the second time.
为此，我还报了语言班做全面冲刺，准备在三月一次考到满意分数。
For this reason, I also reported to the language class to do a full sprint, ready to take a satisfactory test in March.
如果一切顺利，之后就能有更充足的时间，去准备其它申请材料。
If all goes well, you'll have more time to prepare other applications later.
但是这个疫情一来，全国的考试都停了。
But with the outbreak, the national exam has stopped.
二月中旬，我看到雅思发公告说二三月份考试取消，当时有点慌，怕托福也一样，但还是抱着侥幸心理。
In mid-February, I saw the IELTS announcement that the February and March exams were cancelled. I was afraid that the TOEFL, too, would be left to chance.
接着就有同学告诉我，他三月的托福考试已经被取消了，我感觉不妙，赶紧去查了托福四月和五月的考位。
Then someone told me that his TOEFL exam in March had been canceled. I felt bad, so I hastened to check the TOEFL test places in April and May.
所幸五月初还有考位，我立刻报上了名。
Luckily there was room for the examination in early May, and I immediately gave my name.
没过多久，托福官方取消了二三月份的所有考试。
Before long, TOEFL officials cancelled all exams in February and March.
现在报名，六月份的考位也没有了。
Now that I've signed up, I don't have any seats for June.
这次考试取消让我挺迷茫的。
The cancellation of the exam confused me.
因为理论上讲今年10到11月，国外学校就开始申请材料投递了。
In theory, from October to November this year, foreign schools began to apply for materials to deliver.
如果按之前的计划，3到5月之间语言准备这块就应该结束了，剩下半年时间可以更充分地刷实习经历以及准备申请材料。
As planned, the language preparation project should end between March and May, with half a year left to brush up more fully on the internship and preparation of application materials.
现在这个情况，五月再考托福，我必须一击必中。
In this case, I have to hit the nail on the head again in May.
因为下半年我还需要上本科阶段最重要的课程，完成一部20分钟的摄影作品，很耗时间精力，而且实习动辄两三个月，时间很紧凑。
Because I also need to take the most important undergraduate course in the second half of the year, complete a 20-minute photography work, very time and energy, and internship for more than two or three months, very tight time.
准备托福本身就比较占时间，如果五月后还需要再考的话，身上压力就很大。
Preparation for TOEFL itself is more time-consuming, if you need to re-test after May, the pressure on the body is very high.
如今在家待着，不能考试，实习计划也泡汤了。
Now that I'm at home, I can't take the exam and my internship plan is ruined.
原本想报个线下课程，现在也只能报线上一对一的语言课，在家继续学习。
I wanted to take an offline course, and now I can only take one-on-one language classes online and continue studying at home.
我的语言基础不太好，如果不投入大量时间去巩固和提高，是没办法拿到理想分数的。
My language base is not so good and I can't get the ideal score without investing a lot of time in consolidation and improvement.
我是那种喜欢按照计划一步步去完成的人，现在计划被耽搁，也不知道什么时候能回到正轨，还是有些迷茫。
I am the kind of person who likes to do things one step at a time, but now the plans are delayed and I don't know when to get back on track.
但也没有别的办法，也只能先把眼下的事情做好。
But there is no other way, only to do the current thing well.
杨盐 原2020年3月份雅思考试考生得知雅思考试取消，我居然松了口气知道雅思考试取消的那一瞬间，我居然下意识地松了一口气，毕竟我还没准备好。
I was relieved to learn that the IELTS test had been cancelled. I knew that the IELTS test had been canceled, but I had to breathe a little unconsciously. After all, I was not ready.
1月27日，雅思中国官网发布消息称，受疫情影响，取消大陆地区1月31日至2月的所有各类雅思考试，当时我就觉得3月份考试可能也会受影响。
Due to the outbreak, all kinds of IELTS tests in the mainland from January 31 to February were cancelled, and I thought the March test might also be affected, according to the official website of the IELTS China on January 27.
2月14日，考试取消的通知果然下来了。
On February 14, the announcement of the cancellation of the examination came down.
刚上大学时，爸妈每天在我耳边念叨“什么雅思、托福考试，你都要试一试啊”。
When I first went to college, my parents said in my ear every day, "What IELTS, TOEFL exam, you will try it."
他们可能不知道这些考试具体有什么区别，但身边朋友的孩子都在考，他们怕我落下。
They may not know exactly what the difference is, but the children of friends around them are testing, they are afraid I will fall behind.
再加上学姐学长也在说这类考试越早越好，我就报名了今年的雅思，想着不管怎么样，先试一下。
Besides, the senior students are saying that the sooner the better, I signed up for the IELTS test this year, thinking that no matter what, try it first.
周围同学有出国意向的，一直都在努力备考，很多大三的朋友白天在社团、实习单位工作，晚上回来还要各种练习、刷题、听网课，节假日都恨不得住图书馆里。
Around the students have the intention to go abroad, has been working hard to prepare for the exam, many junior friends in the community, internship units during the day, back in the evening to practice, brush problems, listen to the Internet classes, holidays are eager to live in the library.
我听说还有学姐因为连轴转，压力又太大，直接晕倒在寝室。
I heard that there are still students because of the shaft rotation, the pressure is too big, directly fainted in the bedroom.
和他们相比，我的备考生活要轻松很多，有空时刷刷习题，练练口语，累了就休息。
Compared with them, my preparation life to be much easier, when free brush exercises, practice oral English, tired on the rest.
我才大二，还没有申请学校的压力，总觉得来日方长，下一次再认真准备也来得及。
I just sophomore, has not applied to the pressure of the school, always feel that the days ahead, the next serious preparation is also too late.
但这次疫情的发生，改变了我很多想法。
But the outbreak changed many of my thoughts.
一方面，身边朋友都在哀嚎，有人雅思成绩不过关，学校递交材料的截止日期就要到了，她报了二月的两场考试，结果都被取消，急得不知道怎么办好。
On the one hand, friends around in the howling, some IELTS results do not pass, the deadline for submission of school materials is approaching, she reported February two tests, results were cancelled, anxious do not know how to do.
还有人认真准备了很长时间，结果被突然取消弄得没办法，已经在研究怎么去国外考试。
Others have been preparing hard for a long time, only to be suddenly canceled, already studying how to go to foreign examinations.
看着他们的样子，我难免会代入自己，这次我吊儿郎当地备考，不想面对自己的成绩，反而庆幸考试取消，不用直面现实。
Looking at their appearance, I can not help but into their own, this time I carelessly prepared for the exam, do not want to face their own achievements, on the contrary, glad that the examination canceled, do not face reality.
但如果我也正处在一个关键的时间节点上，碰到考试被取消，还能悠哉悠哉地松一口气吗？以前我总爱跟朋友开玩笑，他们都觉得我特别“嘴损”，但这次我是真的知道了什么叫无奈。
But if I'm at a critical point in time, can I relax if my exams are canceled? I used to joke with my friends, and they thought I was being especially "tongue-tied," but this time I really knew what was meant by helplessness.
有朋友来跟我抱怨，我都会耐心地陪他们说话，和他们一起想办法。
When a friend comes to complain to me, I patiently accompany them to talk, with them to find a way.
另一方面，武汉的事情开始让我觉得自己是个“幸存者”。
Wuhan, on the other hand, began to make me feel like a "survivor."
因为我不在湖北，我没有生病，所以每天还能为一些小事开心、生气，而那些离开的人已经没有机会了。
Because I am not in Hubei, I am not sick, so every day can be happy for some small things, angry, and those who left have no chance.
也许关于人生的考试，真的没有那么多下一次吧，我想还是要认真抓住每一天。
Perhaps the life of the examination, really do not have so many next time, I think I still want to seriously seize every day.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------本期策划｜王梓涵 马延君。
I Am I (I) I Am I (I) I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
考试族在这个春天踏空。
The examiners are stepping out this spring.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "文学";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "真实故事计划";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "考试族在这个春天踏空";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; this spring.
var msg_desc = "考研复试、托福、雅思、专升本......延迟或取消。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; delays or cancellations for its second test, TOEFL, IELTS, or promoted...
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="真实故事计划";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
