韩国疫情最严重地区的中国留学生。
Chinese students from the worst affected areas of South Korea.
小昼。
Daylight.
极昼工作室                      。
Daylight Studio.
极昼工作室。
Daylight Studio.
为坚持严肃阅读的人群提供选项。
Offer options for people who insist on serious reading.
搜狐新闻极昼工作室。
Sohu News Polar Daylight Studio.
。
.
摘要：刘永辉在韩国岭南大学读博。
Abstract: Liu Yonghui reads blogs at Lingnan University in Korea.
学校所在地大邱是韩国新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情最严重的地区，2月28日下午（截至当地时间16时），大邱累计确诊1579例新冠肺炎病例，占韩国总数的67.6%，仅仅过了一个晚上，到当地时间2月29日10时，确诊患者已经是2055人。
Daegu, where the school is located, has the worst case of coronavirus pneumonia in South Korea.By the afternoon of February 28, Taegu had confirmed 1,579 new cases of coronavirus pneumonia, accounting for 67.6 percent of the total.
刘永辉体验了韩国政府的各项防疫举措，也见证了韩国民众的态度变化。
Liu experienced the government's anti-epidemic initiatives and witnessed a change in attitude among South Koreans.
文 |陈怡含编辑 |林鹏2月27日，刘永辉坐在宿舍，面前摆着一份丰盛的便当：炸鸡、蒸饺、沙拉、泡菜、甜点。
Ren Yung-fai sat in his dorm room on February 27 with a large lunch of fried chicken, steamed dumplings, salad, pickles and desserts.
门外，韩国国务总理丁世均戴着口罩经过，被人群簇拥着视察学校的防疫工作。
Outside the door, South Korean State Minister Ding Si passed by wearing masks, surrounded by crowds to inspect school immunization.
这位29岁的中国男生从未想过，来韩国十年，自己会以这种方式见到韩国国务总理。
The 29-year-old Chinese boy never thought he would meet South Korea's prime minister this way for a decade.
刘永辉在韩国岭南大学读博。
Liu Yonghui reads blogs at Lingnan University in Korea.
学校所在地大邱是韩国新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情最严重的地区，2月28日下午（截至当地时间16时），大邱累计确诊1579例新冠肺炎病例，占韩国总数的67.6%，仅仅过了一个晚上，到当地时间2月29日10时，确诊患者已经是2055人。
Daegu, where the school is located, has the worst case of coronavirus pneumonia in South Korea.By the afternoon of February 28, Taegu had confirmed 1,579 new cases of coronavirus pneumonia, accounting for 67.6 percent of the total.
在2月16日返校之前，刘永辉在老家经历了半个多月的“中国式防疫”。
Before returning to school on February 16, Liu Yonghui had spent more than half a month in his hometown "Chinese-style epidemic prevention."
截至他离家那天，那个中国东部小城有十几例新冠肺炎确诊病例，而大邱尚未出现确诊患者，他觉得，自己是从一个相对安全的地方到了一个更加安全的地方。
By the day he left home, there were a dozen confirmed cases of new crown pneumonia in that small eastern Chinese city, and Daegu had yet to see a confirmed patient. He felt he had moved from a relatively safe place to a safer place.
但是情况在两天后骤变。
But the situation changed dramatically after two days.
2月18日，韩国第31号患者（注：指确诊新冠肺炎的第31例患者）出现，这位61岁的妇女是“新天地教会”成员，出现症状后几度回避医院的核酸检测建议，并在2月9日和16日参加了礼拜活动。
On Feb. 18, South Korean patient No. 31, a 61-year-old member of the Church of New Horizon, shunned the hospital's nucleic acid test recommendations several times after developing symptoms and attended a church service on February 9 and 16.
同期参加礼拜活动的教徒约有千人。
There were about a thousand worshippers during the same period.
疫情很快扩散，短短10天，大邱的确诊人数从0升至1579，又很快突破两千。
The epidemic quickly spread, and in just 10 days, the number of people diagnosed in Daegu rose from 0 to 1579 and soon passed 2,000.
据中新网，“新天地教会”在韩国争议极大。
The Xintiandi Church is highly controversial in South Korea, according to Sinochem.
2016年韩国基督教联合会发公告，认定“新天地教会”是打着基督教幌子的“异端”，要求信众警惕。
In 2016, the Korean Christian Federation issued a proclamation that the Church of the New World was a "heretic" under the guise of Christianity, calling for vigilance.
因此，不少该教会的教徒在疫情发生后隐瞒身份、不配合调查，甚至继续“潜入”其他教堂“布道”，造成传染扩散。
As a result, many members of the church hid their identities after the outbreak, did not cooperate with the investigation, and even continued to "infiltrate" other churches to "preach," spreading the infection.
这些日子，刘永辉体验了韩国政府的各项防疫举措，也见证了韩国民众的态度变化。
These days, Mr. Liu has experienced the government's anti-epidemic initiatives and witnessed a change in attitudes among South Koreans.
以下是他的口述：“刚回来的那几天，我觉得太安全了”我高中毕业就过来韩国，在这里读了本科、研究生，现在在读博士，大概还有两年就毕业了。
The following is his dictation: "The first few days after I came back, I felt too safe." I came to Korea after high school.
作为留学生，最关注的还是韩国会不会对我们的入境采取限制措施。
As foreign students, the biggest concern is whether South Korea will take restrictive measures against our entry.
疫情发生以来，韩国网络上关于全面禁止中国人入境的声音很高。
Since the outbreak of the outbreak, the South Korean network on the total ban on the entry of Chinese voices is very high.
最明显的是青瓦台的国民请愿，目前已经达到七十多万人。
The most obvious is the petition of the citizens of Qingwadai, which has now reached more than 700,000 people.
（编者注：2017年8月起，韩国总统府青瓦台的官网开设国民请愿系统，任何韩国国民都可以在系统上发起与国家事务相关的请愿，如果30天内请愿人数达到20万，相应官员会做出回复。
(Note to Editor: Since August 2017, the official website of the South Korean presidential palace in Qingwadai has set up a national petition system on which any Korean national can file a petition related to national affairs. If the number of petitioners reaches 200,000 within 30 days, the corresponding official will respond.
）最早韩国只是加强了中国入境人员的检疫，2月4号开始，持有湖北省签发的护照或武汉总领事馆签发的签证的人，一律禁止入境。
) The earliest South Koreans merely tightened quarantine on Chinese immigrants. People holding passports issued by Hubei Province or visas issued by the Wuhan Consulate General were banned from entering the country on February 4.
2月中旬，韩国政府开始强烈建议中国留学生休学，但只是强烈建议，至今对于湖北以外的人员没有任何强制限制。
In mid-February, the South Korean government began strongly advising Chinese students to suspend their studies, but only strongly recommended that there be no mandatory restrictions for those from outside Hubei so far.
我是2月16日返回韩国的，路线是乘飞机到首尔，再乘火车到大邱。
I returned to South Korea on February 16 by air to Seoul and then by train to Daegu.
飞机上，空姐和空少都戴着口罩和手套。
On the plane, the stewardess and the airhostess were wearing masks and gloves.
飞机降落后，他们检测好所有乘客的体温，确认没有异常，大家再下飞机。
When the plane landed, they checked the temperature of all the passengers and made sure nothing was wrong before they disembarked.
我们走的是从中国入境的专用通道。
We are going through a special passageway from China.
首先被引导到一个检查点，穿着防护服、戴着护目镜的医务人员会把护照收走，因为下一个检查点距离较远，他们担心有人中途离开队伍。
First, they were directed to a checkpoint, where medical personnel in protective clothing and goggles took their passports away for fear of being stopped at the next checkpoint.
医务人员对我们进行问询，有没有相应的症状、近期是否去过湖北等等。
Medical personnel to us for inquiries, there are no corresponding symptoms, whether the recent visit to Hubei and so on.
下一个检查点距离海关只有几步路，在这里，护照会交还到我们手上。
The next checkpoint is only a few steps from the customs, where the passport will be returned to us.
工作人员监督我们下载一个APP，并在上面填写好个人信息。
The staff supervised us in downloading an APP and filling in personal information on it.
APP是新开发的，2月12日开始，所有从中国入境的人员，不论国籍，必须安装。
The APP is newly developed and will be mandatory for all persons entering China, regardless of nationality, starting on February 12.
14天隔离期内，需要每天在上面汇报健康情况，是否发热、是否咳嗽或咽喉痛、是否呼吸困难等等，如果没有汇报，第2天会有相关部门打来电话，连续两天没有汇报，第3天他们会直接联合警方到住所找你。
During the 14-day isolation period, they will be required to report daily on their health condition, whether they have fever, cough or sore throat, dyspnea, etc. If they do not report, they will call the relevant authorities on the second day and fail to report for two consecutive days.
2月16日，刘永辉等待从专用通道入境韩国。
On February 16, Liu Yonghui waited to enter South Korea via a dedicated channel.
（图片由受访者提供）从中国入境的专用通道里，几乎每个人都戴着口罩。
(Photo provided by the interviewee) Almost everyone wears a mask in a dedicated passage from China.
但通过海关之后，对防疫的重视程度明显降低。
However, through customs, the importance of epidemic prevention is significantly reduced.
首尔仁川机场的人流量和往日一样，大约一半的人戴着口罩。
Traffic at Seoul's Incheon Airport is as usual, with about half wearing masks.
我乘坐直通列车前往首尔站，上车前没有任何健康检查，月台上也没有看到消毒的工作人员。
I took the through train to Seoul Station. There was no health check before I got on the train and no disinfectant staff were seen on the platform.
首尔站也是一切如常，没看到有工作人员戴口罩。
Seoul Station is also business as usual, did not see staff wearing masks.
回来之前，我了解到大邱的个别中国人遇到了被出租司机拒载的情况，为了防止这种情况发生，我请了位朋友开车来接。
Before I came back, I learned that some Chinese in Daqiu had been turned down by taxi drivers. To prevent this, I asked a friend to pick them up in a car.
第31号患者出现之前，我完全没有想到韩国的疫情会发展到这种情况。
I had no idea this was going to happen in South Korea until sufferer number 31 appeared.
当时我预想，韩国最终的累计确诊人数至多一百多，2015年韩国的中东呼吸综合征患者也没有超过200人。
At the time, I expected the cumulative number of confirmed cases in South Korea to be up to 100, and the number of people with Middle East respiratory syndrome in South Korea to not exceed 200 in 2015.
刚回来的那几天，我觉得太安全了。
The last few days after I got back, I felt too safe.
当晚我就跟朋友去吃了自助餐，毕竟在国内哪儿也去不了，闷了那么多天。
That night I went to a buffet with my friends. After all, I couldn't go anywhere in China. I was bored for so many days.
餐厅里人很多，服务员没有任何防护，说实话，当时没觉得有什么危险，我自己都没有戴口罩——进餐厅前，我和朋友把口罩放在了车上。
There were a lot of people in the restaurant and the waiters had no protection. To be honest, I didn't feel any danger at the time. I didn't even wear a mask myself.
我还点过一次外卖，配送员也没有戴口罩。
I ordered a takeaway and the delivery man didn't wear a mask.
超市、便利店的员工也有没戴口罩的，有些虽然戴着，鼻子却露了出来。
Supermarkets and convenience stores also have employees who don't wear masks. Some wear them, but their noses show up.
该集会的集会，该聚餐的聚餐，我的朋友圈里，有人还像往常一样在夜店蹦着。
The rally, the dinner party, my friends' circle, there were people still hopping around the nightclub as usual.
31号患者的新闻出现时，很快就引起了我的注意。
When the news of patient number 31 appeared, it soon caught my eye.
31号患者所在的“新天地教会”我也听说过，在韩国争议极大。
The "New World Church," where Patient No. 31 is located, I've heard of a huge controversy in South Korea.
还有一个其他的教会，最近他们在首尔附近办了一场3万人的集体婚礼，如果这里出现确诊者，那就完了，就像在人群中投入一枚炸弹。
There is another church that recently held a group wedding of 30,000 people near Seoul. If there is a confirmed case, it's like dropping a bomb in a crowd.
最近一周，大邱西区的传染病防控主任和副市长秘书等人相继确诊，都没有非常突破我的认知。
In the past week, the infectious disease director and the deputy mayor's secretary in Taegu West have all been diagnosed without breaking through my knowledge.
因为我知道韩国教会的渗透力很强，一些官员或知名教授是某某教徒，都是很正常的。
Because I know the pervasiveness of the Korean church, it is normal for some officials or eminent professors to be so.
很多“新天地教会”教徒会向家人、朋友隐瞒身份。
Many members of Xintiandi Church hide their identities from family and friends.
前几天一直有新闻称韩国政府尚未拿到完整的“新天地教会”教徒名单，还有一些名单上的人联系不上或拒绝配合。
There have been reports in the past few days that the South Korean government has not yet received the complete list of New Horizons and Churches, and that some of those on the list could not be reached or refused to cooperate.
25号，京畿道知事李在明强行进入了他们那里的“新天地教会”总部，得到了整个京畿道地区的教徒名单。
On the 25th, Gyeonggi province governor Lee forced his way into their headquarters in Xintiandi Church, where he was given a list of followers of the entire Gyeonggi province.
我个人认为这件事在韩国的反响蛮大的，政府强行进入某个地方搜查，在韩国是很难的。
Personally, I think the reaction in South Korea is huge, and it is very difficult for the government to force a search into a place in South Korea.
放在往常，一定会有反对的声音，一些在野党也会拿它做文章。
As usual, there must be opposition, and some opposition parties will use it.
但现在“新天地教会”在韩国的口碑已经坏到爆炸，网络上骂声一片，青瓦台网站有人请愿解散“新天地教会”，截至2月28日，已经有110多万人支持。
But now that the Church of the New World's reputation in South Korea has exploded, and online outrage has erupted, with a petition on the site to dissolve Xintiandi Church, which as of February 28 had more than 1.1 million people behind it.
现在韩国政府要对所有“新天地教会”教徒进行调查，新天地也说会积极配合，提供教徒名单，但这个名单是不是完整的，我持一个比较怀疑的态度。
Now the South Korean government is going to conduct a survey of all the New World Church members, and Xintiandi says it will cooperate actively in providing a list of believers, but I am more skeptical about whether the list is complete.
我会有点担心，身边隐藏着新天地教徒。
I'm a little worried. There's the Saints hiding around me.
不过担心也没有用，这些是我们无法控制的，我们能做的就是做好防护、尽量远离确诊者出现过的地方。
But there's no use worrying about it. It's out of our control. All we can do is protect ourselves as far as possible from where the diagnosed person has been.
31号患者出现之后，我去哪儿都戴着口罩，哪怕是从出租屋下楼进到车里，这样不到四五十秒的路程。
After Patient 31 showed up, I wore a mask everywhere I went, even from the cab downstairs to the car, less than forty or fifty seconds away.
隔壁学校有一位韩国学生确诊，与我的直线距离只有400米，网上曝出他去过附近的一家小超市，之前经常路过，现在我都绕着走。
A South Korean student at the next school confirmed that he was only 400 meters away from me. He had been to a small supermarket nearby, and I was walking around it now.
我们学校也有一位韩国女学生确诊，我是在韩国最大的中文社区网站看到消息的，上面说她17号与一位朋友共进晚餐，得知朋友在20号确诊后，她第二天就前往筛查诊疗所，检测结果为阳性。
A South Korean female student in our school also confirmed that I read on South Korea's largest Chinese-language community website that she had dinner with a friend on the 17th and that she went to a screening clinic the next day after she was diagnosed with the disease and tested positive.
目前，学校封锁了她居住和确诊前短暂停留过的两栋宿舍楼。
At present, the school blocks two dormitories where she had stayed for a short time before she was diagnosed.
3分钟收到7条警报疫情初期，韩国政府的反应比民众快了很多。
At the beginning of the three-minute alert phase, South Korea's government reacted much faster than the public.
韩国出现第一例确诊患者之后，就开始每天定时播报疫情数据，上午九十点钟一次，下午四五点钟一次。
After the first confirmed case in South Korea, regular daily reporting of epidemic data began, one in the morning and one in the afternoon.
新冠肺炎专门的网页也很快建了起来。
A dedicated Web page on New Crown Pneumonia was soon set up.
31号患者出现之前，学校就对疫情的防控比较重视。
Before the emergence of the 31 patients, the school has paid more attention to the prevention and control of the epidemic.
原本住在校内的中国留学生，返校后在宿舍强制隔离14天，想要离开宿舍必须打申请。
Chinese students living in the school, after returning to school in the dormitory after 14 days of forced isolation, to leave the dormitory had to apply.
住在校外的也要自行隔离，学校每天会打来电话询问健康情况。
Those who live outside the school are also isolated, and the school calls every day to ask about their health.
学校发给刘永辉的防疫物资。
The school issued Liu Yonghui with epidemic prevention materials.
（图片由受访者提供）31号患者出现时，韩国民众并没有很快重视起来。
South Koreans were not immediately impressed by the presence of the 31-year-old.
之后连续几天确诊人数暴增，对于普通民众而言，这个数据是最直观的，大概从这周开始，能明显感觉到人们的重视程度有所提高。
The surge in the number of confirmed cases over the next few days was the most intuitive for the general population, and there was a palpable sense of increased attention starting this week.
街上的人流减少了三分之一左右，大邱最繁华的东城路步行街因为出现确诊患者，几乎看不到人了。
Streets have shrunk by about a third, and Daegu's busiest pedestrian street, Dongcheng Road, is barely visible because of the presence of confirmed patients.
学校附近的肯德基、麦当劳，往常一到饭点就没有空位，最近每次过去，至少三分之二的座位空着，有时甚至只有我一个顾客。
At KFC and McDonalds, near the school, there were no vacant seats at meal times, and recently at least two-thirds of them were empty, sometimes just me.
还有四五家理发店因为担心交叉感染关门了。
Four or five barber shops have closed for fear of cross-infection.
戴口罩的人有百分之八九十。
Eighty or ninety percent of people wear masks.
大邱成为疫情严重的地区之后，韩国政府从外地紧急调配了数千万口罩，并从26号开始禁止出口口罩，原本打算捐赠给中国的部分口罩也改为支援大邱。
After Daegu became a disaster area, the South Korean government dispatched tens of millions of masks from other countries and banned the export of masks from May 26. Some of the masks intended for donation to China have also been used to support Daegu.
有些人开始囤积食材。
Some people began to hoard ingredients.
主要表现在购物网站，生鲜类经常无法购买，因为下单人数太多，配送不过来。
Mainly in the performance of shopping sites, fresh class often can not buy, because the number of orders too many, distribution can not come.
韩国最常用的搜索网站Naver上，疫情相关的热搜比比皆是。
South Korea's most popular search site, Naver, is replete with epidemic-related hotspots.
2月27号11:30-2:30的热搜，前10位全部和疫情有关。
Feb. 27 11: 30-2: 30 heat search, the top 10 all related to the outbreak.
第1位是蔚山某急诊室被封锁，起因是有医生确诊，第2位是这位确诊的医生，第3位是防止新冠病毒扩散的方法，第4位是疫情对于韩国经济的影响，第5位是一家捐赠5亿韩元和医疗用品的企业，第6位是对新天地进行全面调查，第7位是“我去过新天地”，第8位是政府不会加大入境限制，第9位是新冠病毒的危害，第10位是新冠病毒。
The first was the blockade of an emergency room in Ulsan, after a doctor confirmed it, the second was the doctor diagnosed, the third was the way to prevent the spread of the crowning virus, the fourth was the impact of the epidemic on the Korean economy, the sixth was a full survey of Xintiandi, the seventh was "I have been to New World," 8th was the government will not increase entry restrictions, 9th is the new crown virus, 10th is the new crown virus.
谣言也出现了。
Rumors have also arisen.
我所在的一个群里，先是有嫁给韩国人的中国人发了一条视频，里面所谓的韩国医生说咖喱里有一种韩药可以治疗新冠肺炎。
In one of my groups, Chinese married to South Koreans first sent a video in which the so-called Korean doctor said there was a Korean drug in the curry that could cure pneumonia.
后来又有韩国女生说，在中国香港学医的朋友告诉她生姜茶可以治疗新冠肺炎，让大家多喝生姜茶。
Later, a South Korean schoolgirl said that friends studying medicine in Hong Kong, China, told her ginger tea could cure pneumonia and make everyone drink more ginger tea.
这两条信息下面都有人回复“这是很好的信息，感谢分享”，不知道是不是真的信了。
This is good information, thank you for sharing, and I don't know if it's true.
疫情爆发以来，韩国的应急警报系统发布了很多警报。
Since the outbreak, South Korea's emergency alert system has issued many warnings.
我在朋友圈看过一张截图，是在校隔离的同学发的，他在3分钟内收到了7条警报，1258号患者确诊前的移动路径3条、1259号的两条、1260号的两条。
I saw a screenshot of a school quarantined classmate who received seven alarms in three minutes, three before the diagnosis of patient 1258, two before 1259, two before 1260.
这是一个长期运作的系统，地震、暴雨、高温等情况出现时，韩国各地的苹果手机和三星手机都能收到警报，几乎可以覆盖所有韩国国民，因为绝大多数人的手机都是这两个品牌。
It's a long-running system, and when earthquakes, torrential rains and high temperatures occur, Apple phones and Samsung phones across South Korea can receive alarms that can cover almost all South Korean nationals, as the vast majority of people own these two brands.
不过我用的是小米手机，没有这个功能。
But I use millet, and I don't have this feature.
紧急修订法案25号上午，韩国决定将大邱划为特别管控区，采取超强“封锁”。
Emergency Amendment Bill 25 morning, South Korea decided to designate Daegu as a special control area, a super-strong "blockade."
看到这条新闻时我刚刚睡醒，迷糊中以为大邱要像武汉一样“封城”了。
When I saw this news, I had just woken up and thought Daegu was going to "close the city" like Wuhan.
恰好有位警察朋友打来电话，他说不可能的，你一定是看到假新闻了。
Just as a police friend called, he said no, you must have seen the fake news.
我再仔细一看，青瓦台发言人随后对媒体表示，这里的“封锁”是防疫用语，指的是尽快寻找、隔离确诊患者和密切接触者，阻断疫情扩散，并不等同于一般地区性封锁，不会禁止出入。
When I looked more closely, a spokesman for Qingwadai later told the media that the "blockade" was a preventive medicine term, referring to seeking, isolating and identifying patients and close contacts as soon as possible to stop the spread of the epidemic, not the same as the general regional blockade, will not prohibit access.
现在大邱要把所有的密切接触者和发热人群筛查一遍。
Now Daegu has to screen out all the close contacts and feverish people.
26号，韩国国会表决通过了3项新冠肺炎相关修订法案，其中《传染病防治管理法》修订案规定，疑似患者如果拒绝检查，最高罚款300万韩元，也就是不到两万元人民币；如果违反居家隔离或住院治疗措施，将被处以1年以下有期徒刑或最高1000万韩元的罚款。
The amendment to the Infectious Diseases Control Act imposes a fine of up to three million won, or less than 20,000 yuan, on suspected patients who refuse to be examined, and up to one year in prison or a fine of up to 10 million won if they violate home isolation or hospitalization measures.
几乎每个区都有筛查诊疗所，一般靠近医院，是临时搭建的几间板房，像集装箱一样。
Screening clinics are available in almost every district, generally close to hospitals, and are makeshift, container-like cells.
我没有实地观察过，但从新闻图片来看，检测的队伍没有很长。
I haven't observed it on the ground, but judging from the news pictures, the team was not very long.
大邱医疗院是这里收治确诊患者的主要地点，算是一家定点医院，此外，岭南大学附属医院、庆北大学附属医院等也收治了一些患者。
The Daegu Hospital is the main place for the treatment of confirmed patients. In addition, some patients have been admitted to Lingnan University Hospital, Gyeongbei University Hospital, etc.
相比于疫情发展的速度，韩国的医疗资源明显是不够的。
South Korea's health-care resources are clearly inadequate relative to the pace of the epidemic.
我查看过韩国疾病预防控制中心（KCDC）发布的数据，整个韩国的负压病房数是161个，能够收治198位患者，普通隔离病房数是93个，能够收治337位患者，加起来是535位。
I checked data released by the Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (KCDC). The number of negative pressure wards in Korea is 161, with 198 patients treated, and the number of general isolation wards is 93, with a total capacity of 337 patients, for a total of 535.
这是2019年11月份的数据，现在的情况应该没有太大差别。
This is November 2019 data and the situation should not be very different now.
截至28号，韩国的确诊人数已经突破两千，接近535的4倍。
By the 28th, the number of people diagnosed in South Korea had surpassed 2,000, nearly four times that of 535.
我原本以为大邱还没有出现确诊患者住不上院的情况，结果27号晚上看到新闻，大邱政府通报当时确诊的1017位确诊患者中只有447位得以入院。
I thought Daegu did not have any confirmed cases of patients not living in the upper house. As a result, on the evening of the 27th, Daegu government reported that only 447 of the 1,017 patients diagnosed at that time had been hospitalized.
韩国政府一直说要扩建医院，但扩建多少、以何种方式扩建、多久能够完成，目前都是未知数。
The South Korean government has been talking about expanding hospitals, but how much, in what way, and for how long is uncertain.
中国有很多成功经验，但韩国很难借鉴，政府的动员能力不够强，无法几天建出一座火神山医院，征用场所也很困难，目前我在网络上没有看到类似建立方舱医院的讨论。
There are many successful experiences in China, but it is difficult for South Korea to learn from them. The mobilization ability of the government is not strong enough to build a mountain hospital in a few days, and it is difficult to requisition sites.
大邱设置移动负压病房。
Daegu has a mobile negative pressure ward.
（图片来源：韩联社）医护人员也非常紧缺。
(Photo: Korean Federation) Medical staff are also in short supply.
28号的新闻称已经招募了八百多位医护人员，即将前往大邱，希望白衣天使们快点到来。
News of the 28th said more than 800 health care workers had been recruited and were on their way to Daegu in hopes of hastening the arrival of white angels.
但地方互助能达到何种程度，我也在关注，之前看到一则新闻，强行进入新天地总部的李在明表示：“京畿道收纳大邱患者，真的很困难……”前几天，因为医疗资源有限，中央临床委员会呼吁轻症患者在家自我治疗。
But I am also concerned about the extent to which local mutual help can be reached. "Gyeonggi Province is really hard to accommodate Daegu patients," Li Zhiming, who was forced into Xintiandi headquarters, said a few days ago.
一旦有几个不自觉的，就会造成严重后果。
Once there are a few involuntary, there will be serious consequences.
我觉得这种做法不太靠谱，就像遇到危险的鸵鸟，把头埋进沙子。
I don't think it's very reliable. Like a dangerous ostrich, bury your head in the sand.
迄今为止，我没有看到任何一家韩国媒体、任何一个韩国官员使用“武汉病毒”、“中国病毒”的字眼，都是统一使用世卫组织的命名“COVID-19”（Corona Virus Disease 2019）。
So far, I have not seen any South Korean media or any South Korean official using the terms "Wuhan virus" or "Chinese virus," using the WHO name "Corona Virus Disase 2019."
只有在极少数网民的SNS上，才会看到这种带有歧视色彩的说法。
Only in a very small number of Internet users SNS, will see this discriminatory color of the statement.
在老家时，感觉韩国网络上有不少对中国人不友好的声音，最多的就是拒绝中国人入境。
When I was back home, I felt that there were many unfriendly voices to the Chinese people on the Korean network, most of which was to refuse Chinese entry.
有同学发来图片，学校附近某家超市的门口用中韩双语写着“中国人不戴口罩不准入内”，还有中国学生在返回韩国后受到了房东的粗暴对待，我认识的一位律师专门为此写了一篇普法文章。
A student sent a picture of a supermarket near the school with a Chinese and Korean bilingual message saying "Chinese are not allowed in without a mask" and Chinese students being roughed up by their landlords upon their return to South Korea, where a lawyer I know wrote a legal literacy article.
31号患者完全把锅推给了中国人，对媒体说是大邱澡堂接待了中国的团体游客，有韩国人在澡堂感染病毒后去了医院，她也因为车祸去了医院，这样被传染了。
The 31 patient completely pushed the pot to the Chinese, told the media that Daegu Bathhouse had received group tourists from China, that South Koreans had gone to the hospital after infected with the virus in the bathhouse, and that she had been infected by a car accident that had taken her to the hospital.
实际上，那个时间早就没有中国团体游客了，怎么可能这样传染给她呢？但有不少韩国人相信她的说法。
In fact, there were no Chinese group tourists at that time, how could it be possible to infect her like this? But many South Koreans believe her.
但在现实生活中，我接触到的韩国人都很友善。
But in real life, the Koreans I met were very friendly.
回到韩国之后，我的房东、导师、朋友都来关心我，一起上课的前辈、一位50多岁的企业家也打来电话，嘱咐我注意身体。
Back in Korea, my landlord, mentor, and friend came to care for me, and my classmate, an entrepreneur in his fifties, phoned to tell me to watch my body.
最意外的是，只接触过几次的修车行老板也来询问我的健康状况，还邀请我疫情结束之后去找他玩。
Most unexpectedly, the owner of the garage, who had contacted me only a few times, came to ask about my health and invited me to visit him when the epidemic was over.
在韩国的这些天，我再也没有看到“中国人不戴口罩不准入内”的告示。
In South Korea these days, I did not see the "Chinese people do not wear masks to enter" sign.
之前听说首尔的一些学校有歧视中国人的现象，后来校方也拉起了支持中国、反对歧视的横幅。
After hearing that some schools in Seoul discriminated against the Chinese, the university later raised a banner in support of China and against discrimination.
7万多中国留学生半数未返校2月25号，韩国政府决定拨款42亿韩元（约合2427万人民币），用于中国留学生的防疫工作。
More than half of the more than 70,000 Chinese students did not return to school on February 25, and the government decided to allocate 4.2 billion won (24.27 million yuan) for the immunization of Chinese students.
第二天，学校寄来一份物资，是10个医用外科口罩和1支体温计。
The next day, the school sent a supply of 10 medical surgical masks and a thermometer.
27号，韩国国务总理丁世均到我们学校视察。
On the 27th, South Korean State Prime Minister Ding Se-soo visited our school.
我们算是大邱庆北地区排名第二的学校，中国留学生比较多，政府不是拨款了嘛，总理过来看看，对于中国留学生的隔离管理和物资发放是不是做到位了。
We are the second largest school in Daqiu Qingbei area. Chinese students are more foreign students, so the government has not allocated money.
据我所知，他主要去了隔离留学生的宿舍。
As far as I know, he mainly went to the dormitory to isolate foreign students.
疫情爆发之后，学校提出2月17号之后返校的中国留学生必须在宿舍隔离，不论之前住在校内还是校外。
After the outbreak, the school said Chinese students returning to school after February 17 must be quarantined in dormitories, both inside and outside the school.
一人一间，学校提供三餐，由专人送到房间门口，还会发放被子、卫生纸、饮用水等。
One person, the school provides three meals, by hand to the door of the room, but also distributed quilts, toilet paper, drinking water, etc.
虽然我在校外隔离，学校还是把我叫了过去，和另外十几位同学一起接受视察。
Although I was isolated outside the school, the school called me over and inspected me with a dozen other students.
本来还嘱咐我们，要跟总理说，学校让我们过来待着，是为了我们的安全。
We were also instructed to tell the Prime Minister that the school had asked us to come and stay for our safety.
结果总理就在宿舍走廊看了一下，没和我们说什么话就走过去了。
As a result, the Premier looked in the hallway of the dormitory and walked over without saying anything to us.
我觉得这样挺好的，特殊时期，避免不必要的接触。
I think it's good, special times, to avoid unnecessary contact.
接受视察时，我又领到两份包装精致的物资——医用外科口罩30个、手消毒剂两瓶。
At the time of the inspection, I received two more bottles of finely wrapped materials -- 30 surgical masks for medical purposes and two bottles of disinfectant.
加上从国内带的和朋友给的，我现在有60多个口罩，足够用一两个月了。
Plus some from home and friends, I now have more than 60 masks, enough for a month or two.
每年春季，韩国的大学都是3月2号开学，现在我们学校推迟到了3月16号，釜山部分学校推迟到了4月。
Every spring, South Korea's universities begin on March 2, and now our school is postponed until March 16, and some Busan schools until April.
研究生原本就没什么课，针对本科生，学校已经有安排网课的计划，开学前两周（3月16日-3月27日）将以网课方式代替面授。
For undergraduate students, there are already plans to arrange classes online, with webinars replacing face-to-face courses two weeks before classes begin (March 16-March 27).
前几天韩国教育部发布数据，7万多位中国留学生，返校的约有半数。
South Korea's Ministry of Education recently released data on more than 70,000 Chinese students, about half of whom returned to school.
我们学校也做了统计，截至27号，有460多位中国留学生没有返校，其中92位明确表示不会回来了，应该是决定休学了，还有370多位想要返校，但受限于航班减少等因素，不确定能否在3月前到达。
According to our school statistics, more than 460 Chinese students had not returned to school as of the 27th. Of these, 92 clearly said that they would not return and decided to suspend their studies. More than 370 others wanted to return to school.
看到31号患者的新闻之后，父母和我视频的频率从一周一次变成一天一次。
After seeing the news of the 31 patients, the frequency of the video between my parents and me changed from once a week to once a day.
妈妈比较担心，想让我回国，但我觉得没有必要，自己做好防护就可以了，休学的代价还是蛮大的，签证会被取消。
Mother is more worried, want me to return to the country, but I do not feel the need to protect themselves, the cost of suspension is still quite high, visa will be cancelled.
韩国总统25号访问大邱时说，争取拐点本周到来，但我觉得不乐观。
President of South Korea 25 visit Daegu said the inflection point will come this week, but I do not feel optimistic.
尽管如此，我个人对韩国政府的措施还比较满意，在他们的体制下，感觉很难有更进一步的作为。
Nonetheless, I am personally satisfied with the South Korean government's efforts, and it is hard to see how much more can be done under their system.
2月29日，大邱一家超市中货品充足。
On 29 February, a supermarket in Daegu was well stocked.
（图片由受访者提供）目前疫情对我的影响不大，大邱的生活物资还算充足，物价也没有上涨。
(Photo provided by interviewees) The current epidemic has had little impact on me. Daegu's living conditions are adequate and prices have not risen.
开学推迟了，我就在家看看文献、打打游戏。
School was postponed, so I looked at the literature and played games at home.
身边有些同学已经返回中国，我认识的一对情侣，甚至在来韩当天，还没有到达处所就又掉头回去。
Some students have returned to China, I know a couple, even in South Korea on the same day, before the premises turned back.
我应该会一直待在大邱，直到暑假回国。
I should have stayed in Daegu until my summer vacation.
唯一一种提前回国的可能是，大邱被完全封锁起来，中国的领事馆决定撤侨。
The only possibility of an early return is that Daegu is completely locked up and the Chinese consulate decides to evacuate the overseas Chinese.
（应采访者要求，刘永辉为化名）后台回复"读者群",加入更多讨论。
(At the request of interviewers, Liu Yonghui a pseudonym) Back-office reply & quot; readers & quot; join in more discussion.
小昼。
Daylight.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
韩国疫情最严重地区的中国留学生。
Chinese students from the worst affected areas of South Korea.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "极昼工作室";。
Var nickname = & quot; daytime studio & quot;;
var msg_title = "韩国疫情最严重地区的中国留学生";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Chinese students from the country's worst - affected region.
var msg_desc = "3分钟收到7条警报。
var msg _ desc = & quot; 7 alerts received in 3 minutes.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="极昼工作室";。
var title = & quot; day studio & quot;;
