应急的血浆。
Emergency plasma.
小昼。
Daylight.
极昼工作室                      。
Daylight Studio.
极昼工作室。
Daylight Studio.
为坚持严肃阅读的人群提供选项。
Offer options for people who insist on serious reading.
搜狐新闻极昼工作室。
Sohu News Polar Daylight Studio.
。
.
摘要：2月15日，武汉江夏区第一人民医院走出一位特殊的康复者。
Abstract: On February 15, a special convalescent man came out of Wuhan Jiangxia First People's Hospital.
出院六天前她刚接受了血浆治疗，一度CT显示严重阴影的肺部，接受血浆治疗后逐步好转。
She had just received plasma treatment six days before her discharge from the hospital, and CT scan showed severe shadow of the lung, gradually improving after receiving plasma treatment.
她是全国第一例接受血浆治疗的新型冠状病毒肺炎患者。
She was the first case of coronavirus pneumonia treated with plasma in China.
特效药和疫苗到来之前，与新型冠状病毒的对抗始终是难题。
The fight against the new coronavirus remains a challenge until specific drugs and vaccines arrive.
在个别患者身上取得成效后，古老的血浆疗法再次成为热门话题，被寄予全新希望。
After the success of individual patients, the old plasma therapy has once again become a hot topic and has been given new hope.
据上海瑞金医院专家团队披露，武汉10位重症患者参与血浆治疗后，其炎症指标和肺部影像学检查结果在短期内都得到了改善。
According to the expert team of Shanghai Ruijin Hospital, the inflammatory markers and lung imaging findings of 10 patients in Wuhan were improved in a short period of time after taking part in plasma treatment.
2月19日，国家卫健委公布的《新型冠状病毒肺炎诊疗方案(试行第六版)》也细化了血浆疗法的应用。
The application of plasma therapy was also refined in the New Coronavirus Pneumonia Diagnosis and Treatment Programme (Trial Version 6) announced by the National Health Commission on February 19.
尽管已初显成效，但多位学者和临床医生也提醒，血浆并非“仙药”，不是人人有效，还存在一些风险，需要更充分的研究，才能更好评价其临床价值。
Despite initial results, a number of scholars and clinicians have warned that plasma is not a "miracle drug" and is not effective for everyone. There are also risks that require fuller research to better evaluate its clinical value.
目前，在投入诊疗的同时，多项临床试验正在开展。
A number of clinical trials are under way at the same time as clinical trials are under way.
而在仍有大量重症患者的情况下，缺少足够的康复者血浆，也是摆在面前的现实问题。
In the case of still a large number of seriously ill patients, the lack of sufficient plasma rehabilitation of patients is also a real problem.
文 |周航编辑 |陶若谷应急的血浆和平常献血不同，血浆抽取需要二三十分钟，经过专门的采浆设备后，血细胞等又送回了吴芬体内，最后保留淡黄色的血浆，远看就像一袋啤酒。
AT & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
吴芬是最早一批捐献血浆的康复者之一。
Wu Fen was one of the first survivors to donate plasma.
新型冠状病毒不知何时开始在她工作的江夏区中医医院流行开，有同事感染后，医院组织了所有人拍CT，1月17日她拍CT后也住了院，治疗16天后康复。
When the new coronavirus began to spread in the Chinese Medicine Hospital in the Jiangxia area where she worked, the hospital organized a CT scan of all her colleagues. On January 17, she was admitted to the hospital after a CT scan and recovered after 16 days.
2月5日捐血浆时，工作人员告诉她，项目仍处于立项研究阶段，“把我们的血浆拿去做研究，提取出来，看到底有没有抗体。
When she donated blood plasma on 5 February, she was told that the project was still in the project development phase and that "our plasma would be studied and extracted to see if there were antibodies.
”事实证明部分患者体内抗体确实存在，而且有效——2月13日，看到新闻上武汉金银潭医院院长张定宇在湖北省政府新闻发布会公开呼吁康复者捐血浆，吴芬激动了一晚上。
"Some patients proved that antibodies do exist and are working - Wu was excited all night when he saw Zhang Dingyu, director of Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, make a public appeal for blood plasma at a press conference of the Hubei provincial government on Feb.
血浆疗法也就此闯入大众视野。
Plasma therapy also broke into the public eye.
血浆疗法全称恢复期血浆治疗，指的是抽取康复者血浆——这些血浆含有能中和病毒的抗体——经制备后输入患者体内，帮助中和病毒，恢复健康。
Plasma therapy, known as convalescent plasma therapy, is the extraction of plasma from convalescent patients - which contains antibodies that neutralize the virus - and is injected into the patient's body to help neutralize the virus and restore health.
早在100多年前，德国生理学家冯·贝林就利用马的免疫血浆，治疗白喉。
More than 100 years ago, German physiologist von Behring used horse immune plasma to treat diphtheria.
此后，血浆疗法还被用于猩红热、麻疹、黄热病、百日咳等传染病治疗中。
Since then, plasma therapy has also been used to treat infectious diseases such as scarlet fever, measles, yellow fever and whooping cough.
但随着各类特效药、疫苗的研发，血浆治疗逐渐淡出视野。
However, with the development of various specific drugs and vaccines, plasma therapy gradually fade out of the field of vision.
近二十多年，每当新发传染病如SARS、埃博拉病毒流行，缺乏特效药和疫苗时，血浆疗法便会登场，成为抢救危重症患者的选项。
In the last two decades, whenever new infectious diseases such as SARS and Ebola become prevalent and there is a lack of specific drugs and vaccines, plasma therapy will become available as an option to save critically ill patients.
2003年抗击“非典”，解放军302医院教授姜素椿感染SARS病毒后，冒着风险用广州康复患者的血浆给自己注射，据《解放军报》报道，“病情很快得到遏制。
After teaching Jiang Su-chun the SARS virus at PLA 302 Hospital in 2003, he risked injecting himself with plasma from a convalescent Guangzhou man, "the PLA's 302 hospital reported.
同时，医院配合其它药物进行治疗，他的身体很快得到恢复。
Meanwhile, the hospital treated him with other drugs, and he recovered quickly.
”埃博拉病毒爆发后，世卫组织也推荐优先使用来源于已治愈患者的恢复期血浆来治疗。
In the wake of the Ebola outbreak, WHO has also recommended prioritizing the use of convalescent plasma from cured patients.
不过，MedSci(梅斯医学)刊登的一项研究显示，84名患者接受恢复期血浆治疗后，并不能显著改善生存率。
However, a study published by MedSci (Mace Medicine) showed that 84 patients who received convalescent plasma did not significantly improve their survival rate.
事实上，因为始终欠缺大规模的临床试验数据，很多专业人士对血浆疗法的态度有所保留。
In fact, many professionals have reservations about plasma therapy because of the persistent lack of large-scale clinical trial data.
“治愈者的血浆用于临床治疗都只有小样本的数据。
"There are only small samples of plasma used for clinical treatment in cured patients.
” 武汉市第一医院输血科主任王顺接受媒体采访时说，血浆疗法确实有一定治疗作用，但从未被列入正式治疗方法，在情况危机时会启用，是针对危重症患者采取的“没有办法的办法”。
Blood transfusion director Wang Shun, director of the blood transfusion unit at Wuhan First Hospital, told the media that plasma therapy does have a therapeutic effect, but it has never been included in the formal treatment and is a "no-do's and don'ts" for critically ill patients when a situation arises.
如今正是这样的危机时刻。
This is precisely the moment of crisis.
新型冠状病毒来势凶猛。
New coronavirus is coming.
一些轻型患者会病情突然加剧，转为重型或危重型，体内掀起”炎症风暴”，昂贵的ECOM（人工膜肺）技术也回天无术。
Some light patients will suddenly become more severe, becoming heavy or critical, causing an "inflammatory storm" in the body, and expensive ECOM (artificial membranous lung) technology.
疫苗研发仍需时日，瑞德西韦、磷酸氯喹等被寄予厚望的药物还在试验阶段，历史上发挥过作用的血浆疗法成了应急之举。
Vaccine development will take time. Promising drugs such as Rhetsevir and chloroquine phosphate are still in the experimental stage, and historically effective plasma therapy has become an emergency.
最早在临床实践的，是武汉一座区级医院——江夏区第一人民医院。
The earliest in clinical practice is a district hospital in Wuhan - the first People's Hospital in Jiangxia District.
2月9日，第一位患者在这里接受血浆治疗，之后有至少六位患者在该医院注入了康复者捐献的血浆。
The first patient was treated with plasma on February 9, after which at least six patients were injected with plasma donated by the convalescent.
这是家位于武汉郊区的医院，疫情早期涌入大量城区医院未接收的患者，在非定点医院中收治病人最多。
This is a hospital located in the outskirts of Wuhan, the outbreak of the early influx of a large number of urban hospitals did not accept patients, non-designated hospitals in the largest number of patients.
该院副院长刘本德向媒体回忆，早在1月20日，他便提出血浆疗法，并和多家单位着手相关工作，目的很简单，“就是希望能多救几个人。
As early as January 20, Liu Bender, deputy director of the hospital, told the press that he had proposed plasma therapy and started working with various organizations with the simple aim of "trying to save a few more people.
”刘本德对媒体多次强调，江夏第一人民医院开展血浆治疗，并不是临床试验，而是一种应用探索。
"Liu Bender has repeatedly stressed to the media that the first People's Hospital of Jiangxia, plasma treatment, is not a clinical trial, but an application exploration.
探索取得了初步效果。
Initial results have been obtained.
刘本德介绍，患者接受治疗12至24小时后，血氧饱和度明显上升，主要炎症指标明显下降，淋巴细胞比例上升，重点指标全面向好，临床体征和症状均开始好转。
Liu said that 12 to 24 hours after treatment, blood oxygen saturation significantly increased, the main inflammation indicators decreased significantly, lymphocyte proportion increased, the key indicators improved overall, and clinical signs and symptoms began to improve.
在武汉，江夏区第一人民医院之后，最早定点收治重症患者的金银潭医院也拿到几份血浆，治疗效果同样不错。
In Wuhan, Jiangxia District, after the first People's Hospital, the earliest designated treatment of severe patients of gold and silver pool hospital also received several plasma, the treatment effect is also good.
2月14日接受央视采访时，院长张定宇表示，该院康复者的血浆已经使4位重症患者的病情好转。
In an interview with CCTV on Feb. 14, dean Zhang Dingyu said plasma from the hospital's convalescent patients had improved the condition of four seriously ill patients.
2月5日，吴芬和同事到医院捐献血浆。
On 5 February, Wu and his colleagues went to the hospital to donate blood plasma.
受访者供图康复者血浆如何变成“抗病毒的药” ？对于血浆疗法，免疫学家最有发言权。
Respondents were asked how to turn plasma into "antiviral drugs" in patients undergoing rehabilitation. Immunologists had the greatest say in plasma therapy.
在免疫学里，这属于"被动免疫"。
In immunology, this was AT & quot; Passive immunization & quot;
人体有着强大的免疫系统，对于新型冠状病毒的侵入，体内能产生特异性抗体，迅速识别并捕捉病毒，与之结合，形成所谓的“免疫复合物”。
The body has a strong immune system, for the invasion of the new coronavirus, the body can produce specific antibodies, quickly identify and catch the virus, and combine with it to form the so-called "immune complex."
免疫复合物形成后，就可以激活体内的补体系统（血液中一套蛋白质形成的保护体系，用于阻止细菌和病毒的入侵）清除病毒，也可以被体内的吞噬细胞捕捉，使病毒在吞噬细胞内被分解清除。
Once the immune complex is formed, it activates the body's complement system (a protective system of proteins in the blood that prevents bacteria and viruses from invading) to clear the virus, or it can be caught by phagocytes in the body, allowing the virus to break down in phagocytes.
血浆成分复杂，可能潜在危险病原，这是血浆疗法最直接的风险，好在先进的制备技术正在应对这一问题。
Plasma is complex and potentially dangerous, which is the most immediate risk for plasma therapy, but advanced preparation techniques are addressing the problem.
在武汉，江夏区第一人民医院得以率先尝试血浆疗法，离不开同在江夏区的中国生物武汉生物制品研究所和武汉病毒研究院的支持。
In Wuhan, the First People's Hospital in Jiangxia District was able to experiment with plasma therapy without the support of the Wuhan Biological Research Institute and Wuhan Virus Research Institute, both of which are located in Jiangxia.
这两家单位距医院不过十分钟车程，前者隶属中国生物公司，主要从事生物制品、血液制品的制造和销售，后者则是国内顶级的病毒研究所。
The two units are less than 10 minutes' drive from the hospital. The former is owned by the Chinese biological company and is mainly engaged in the manufacture and sale of biological products and blood products. The latter is the country's top virus research institute.
武汉病毒研究所石正丽团队于1月20日提交《自然》杂志的论文显示，患者体内分离出抗体，显示出在低血清稀释度下中和病毒的潜力。
The Wuhan virus research institute Shi Zhengli's team reported in the January 20 issue of the journal Nature that the patient isolated antibodies, showing the potential to neutralize the virus with low serum dilution.
在恢复期中，康复者血浆仍含有这类中和抗体。
During the recovery phase, the recovered person's plasma still contains these neutralizing antibodies.
对自身免疫力不足的患者而言，输注这些血浆便相当于引入”援军”。
For patients with their own immune deficiency, infusion of these plasma amounts to the introduction of "reinforcements."
抽取后的血浆要经历大约7天的筛选、制备过程，才会交由医院临床使用。
The extracted plasma goes through a screening and preparation process of about 7 days before it is transferred to the hospital for clinical use.
血浆会先送到武汉病毒研究所分析，对有害成分灭活处理，再送到武汉生物制品研究所综合检测。
The plasma is sent to Wuhan Institute of Virus for analysis, inactivation of harmful components, and then sent to Wuhan Biological Products Institute for comprehensive testing.
据刘本德向媒体介绍，除了常规的乙肝、丙肝、艾滋、梅毒等指标检测，还要确保没有病毒残留，因此会把血浆送入上述两家单位，将病毒滴度过高的血浆筛选掉，符合要求的再进行灭活等处理制备。
In addition to routine screening for hepatitis B, hepatitis C, AIDS and syphilis, and to ensure that there is no viral residue, Liu told reporters that plasma would be sent to the two above-mentioned units, the virus would be filtered through high plasma levels and inactivated if required.
另一个关键步骤是检测抗体滴度。
Another key step is to detect antibody titers.
抗体滴度太低意味着有效性不足，一定数值以上才会最终应用于临床。
Antibody titration is too low to be effective, and above a certain number of values will eventually be applied clinically.
经过前期试验，2月13日，中国生物宣布，康复者血浆含有高效价新冠病毒特异性抗体的血浆。
After preliminary tests, on February 13, Chinese organisms announced that the recovered patients had plasma containing HPAV-specific antibodies.
最早一批捐献者也来自江夏区。
The first group of donors also came from Jiangxia.
除了江夏区第一人民医院，吴芬所在的江夏区中医医院也参与其中。
In addition to Jiangxia District First People's Hospital, Wu Fen's Jiangxia District TCM Hospital also participated.
2月4日下午，院长在微信群转发江夏第一人民医院的号召，鼓励同事捐献血浆，吴芬也加入报名。
On the afternoon of February 4, the dean forwarded a call from the First People's Hospital in Jiangxia to encourage colleagues to donate blood plasma.
看到招募献血者的消息，她的反应几乎是职业性的，“终于能够为抗疫做点什么了。
When she saw the news of the blood donors, her reaction was almost professional, "finally something can be done to fight the epidemic."
”吴芬所在医院号召捐献血浆。
Wu called for plasma donations.
不过，吴芬不知道自己的血浆用在了谁身上。
But Wu did not know who his plasma was being used on.
事实上，她都不知道自己的血浆有没有用。
In fact, she didn't even know if her plasma was working.
不是所有康复者血浆最后都会用于临床。
Not all patients who recover end up with plasma for clinical use.
据刘本德介绍，首批19位康复者捐赠的6600ml血浆，最后有3000ml应用于临床。
According to Liu, the first batch of 6600ml plasma donated by 19 convalescent patients was used in clinical practice.
最后，这些血浆经患者同意后输入他们体内——血浆的输注一般要求ABO血型同型，特殊情况也可以相容型输注，即AB型血浆可输给任何人，而O型血可以接收任何血型的血浆。
Finally, the plasma is fed to patients with their consent - plasma transfusion generally requires ABO blood type homogenization, and special conditions can be compatible infusion, i.e. type AB plasma can be lost to anyone, while type O blood can receive plasma of any blood type.
每位患者一般会输入至少200ml血浆，按照康复者单次捐献400ml血浆计算，这意味着理论上可供两人使用。
Each patient was typically fed at least 200 ml of plasma, calculated on the basis of a single donation of 400 ml plasma from the convalescent person, which meant it could theoretically be used by two people.
风险和希望并存2月13日晚，张定宇在湖北省发布会上公开呼吁康复者捐献血浆后，血浆治疗迅速引起舆论反响。
Risk and hope coexist February 13 night, Zhang Dingyu in Hubei Province public appeal for blood plasma donation, plasma treatment quickly aroused public opinion response.
除武汉外，血浆疗法已在全国铺开。
In addition to Wuhan, plasma therapy has spread throughout the country.
2月14日，广东迎来首位血浆捐献者，一个19岁的小伙，早在2月2日，他就签下捐献承诺书。
On February 14, Guangdong welcomed the first plasma donor, a 19-year-old man, who signed a pledge to donate as early as February 2.
同一天，上海市公共卫生临床中心28位患者治愈出院，其中6位愿意捐献血浆，14天隔离观察期满就可捐献。
On the same day, 28 patients from the Shanghai Public Health Clinical Centre were cured and discharged, six of whom were willing to donate plasma, which could be donated after 14 days of isolation.
“有些重症患者，多种措施上去疗效仍不理想，为了进一步提高救治成功率，大家就会尝试包括血浆治疗在内各种可能的治疗措施。
"In some patients with severe diseases, the efficacy of various measures is still not satisfactory, in order to further improve the success rate of treatment, we will try to include plasma treatment of various possible treatment measures.
” 上海市公共卫生临床中心医务部主任沈银忠说。
Shen Yinzhong, medical director of Shanghai Public Health Clinical Center.
“血浆疗法并不稀奇”，沈银忠解释，之所以上海近期才启动，主要近期陆续有新冠肺炎患者治愈出院，恢复期血浆治疗才成为可能。
"Plasma therapy is not uncommon," explains Shen Yinzhong, who explains that it was only recently that patients with Newcastle pneumonia were cured and discharged, making convalescent plasma treatment possible.
多地进度不一的自发推进之外，由上而下的推广也开始了。
In addition to more spontaneous advances of varying speeds, top-down promotions began.
2月14日，国家卫健委办公厅发函，要求各地卫健部门和医疗机构充分认识救治重症、危重症患者的紧迫性，统筹组织好辖区内的血浆治疗工作。
On 14 February, the Office of the National Fitness and Health Commission sent a letter requesting local health authorities and medical institutions to fully recognize the urgency of treating patients in serious and critical condition and to organize plasma treatment in their jurisdictions.
同时发放的《新冠肺炎康复者恢复期血浆临床治疗方案（试行第一版）》明确了各方“任务”：医院做好动员康复者捐献血浆工作，血液制品生产单位提供设备和技术支持，会同血液中心或血站采集、制备血浆。
At the same time, the Programme for the Clinical Treatment of Patients Surviving New Crown Pneumonia in the Recovery Period (Trial Version 1) clearly defines the parties' tasks: hospitals are ready to mobilize survivors to donate blood plasma, blood products production units provide equipment and technical support, together with blood centers or blood stations to collect and prepare plasma.
方案也明确了一些技术操作细节，包括有条件下可以检测抗体滴度，建议血清IgG抗体滴度不低于160。
The scheme also specifies some technical operational details, including the ability to detect antibody titrations under certain conditions, and recommends that serum IgG antibody titers be no less than 160.
该方案下发数天之后，2月19日，国家卫健委发布的试行第六版《诊疗方案》细化了血浆疗法的提法，明确建议适用于病情进展较快、重型和危重型患者三种患者。
A few days after the launch of the programme, on 19 February, the sixth edition of the experimental "Diagnosis and Treatment Programme," issued by the National Board of Health, refined the reference to plasma therapy and explicitly recommended that it be applied to three categories of patients with advanced, severe and critical conditions.
（注：1月30日，第四版《诊疗方案》针对重型、危重型患者，提出“有条件情况下可考虑恢复期血浆治疗”。
(Note: On January 30, the 4th edition of the Diagnosis & amp; Treatment Program proposed that "convalescent plasma treatment can be considered if possible" for heavy and critical patients.
2月5日，第五版更新为“可考虑恢复期血浆治疗。
On February 5, the fifth edition was updated to "Consider convalescent plasma therapy.
” ）“这说明康复者血浆疗法可作为重型和危重型新冠肺炎治疗措施之一。
"This suggests that plasma therapy for convalescent patients may be one of the treatments for severe and severe new crown pneumonia.
” 沈银忠说，武汉等地的经验也可给其他地方参考，就上海而言，“临床上还会不断观察疗效和安全性，不断积累和总结经验。
The experience of places such as Wuhan can also be used as a reference for other places, says Shen. "In the case of Shanghai," clinical observation of efficacy and safety will continue, accumulating and summarizing experiences.
” 目前，上海仍采用多学科合作综合的治疗手段，如吸氧、抗病毒、抗感染、重症支持治疗等措施。
Shanghai still uses a multidisciplinary approach to treatment, including oxygen uptake, anti-viral, anti-infection and intensive care.
不少业内人士也表达了类似的谨慎态度，尽管初期已有一些成功案例，但按照循证医学的标准，血浆疗法的效果仍需更大规模临床试验来验证。
A number of industry insiders have expressed similar caution, and, despite early success stories, the effectiveness of plasma therapy still needs to be validated by larger clinical trials, according to evidence-based medicine standards.
血浆的样子。
What the plasma looks like.
北京协和医学院免疫学系教授黄波对媒体谈到抗体的复杂性，康复者体内针对病毒不仅产生中和性抗体，还产生多种非中和性抗体。
Huang Bo, professor of immunology at Beijing Concorde Medical School, spoke to the media about the complexity of antibodies that produce not only neutralizing antibodies to the virus, but also a variety of non-neutralizing antibodies.
其中，中和性抗体与病毒结合阻止病毒进入细胞。
Neutralizing antibodies combine with viruses to prevent viruses from entering the cell.
其他非中和性抗体则能结合病毒表面的蛋白质，再通过巨噬细胞将病毒吞入。
Other non-neutralizing antibodies bind to proteins on the surface of the virus, which is then swallowed by macrophages.
但对于后一种机制而言，感染中后期，情况可能会发生变化，此时巨噬细胞机能可能已经降低，病毒或能逃过攻击，反而在巨噬细胞中存活复制，让巨噬细胞迅速激活释放“炎症因子”，从而促进人体的“炎症风暴”，加重患者肺部损伤。
For the latter mechanism, however, the situation may change in the middle to late stages of an infection, when macrophages may have become less functional and the virus may have escaped attack, allowing macrophages to survive and replicate, allowing macrophages to quickly activate the release of "inflammatory factors," thus contributing to "inflammatory storms" that exacerbate lung damage in patients.
这也是四川省人民医院ICU主任黄晓波正面临的难题：存在治疗风险的情况下，如何挑选合适的患者接受血浆治疗？太轻的病人不需要，太重的病人他也担心诱导过度的炎症反应，“真是一个度的把握。
This is the dilemma facing Huang Xiaobo, director of the ICU at the Sichuan People's Hospital: How to select the right patients for plasma treatment when there is a risk of treatment?
” 黄晓波正在武汉省红十字会医院支援，他的团队不仅参与血浆治疗，还正在参与由中国医学科学院输血研究所（简称“输血研究所”）主导的一项临床试验。
Huang is supporting the Wuhan Red Cross Hospital, where his team is not only involved in plasma therapy but also in a clinical trial led by the Blood Transfusion Institute of the Chinese Academy of Medicine.
2月12日，输血研究所申请注册了一项血浆疗法针对重症患者的临床应用研究，计划设置150人的实验组，150人的对照组，在协和医院、武汉市红十字会医院等地实施。
On 12 February, the Blood Transfusion Institute applied for the registration of a clinical application of plasma therapy to severe patients, with plans to set up a 150-person experimental group and a 150-person control group to be implemented at Concorde Hospital and Wuhan Red Cross Hospital.
黄晓波表示，相比观察一组病人的回顾性研究，设置对照组的随机性研究更加科学。
Compared with a retrospective study of a group of patients, the randomized study in the control group was more scientific, Huang said.
“前者影响因素比较多，如果选的病人（症状）比较轻，可能会夸大（血浆疗法的）效果。
"The former has a greater influence, and if the patient is selected for a mild condition, it may exaggerate the effect.
”他希望患者不要将血浆视作“仙药”，“指望血浆疗法把所有人救回来是不切实际的，我们首先说它是靠谱的，但我们对这个病毒认识时间太短，所以对它的认识实际上还非常肤浅。
He hoped patients would not see plasma as a "miracle drug" and that "it would be impractical to expect plasma therapy to bring everyone back. We first said it was plausible, but we have known the virus for so short a time that it is virtually superficial."
” 黄晓波说。
'he said.
早在1月28日，输血研究所两位研究人员便赴武汉开展前期工作。
As early as January 28, two researchers from the Blood Transfusion Institute went to Wuhan to start the preliminary work.
其团队一位负责人表示，研究已发现，恢复期血浆不是适用于所有患者，“我们发现它也是有严格的适应症的。
A team leader said the study had found that convalescent plasma was not appropriate for all patients and that "we found that it also had strict indications.
”“有些人可以用，有些人不能用，对某些人来讲可能效果非常好，对某些人来讲可能是没有效果的。
"" Some people can use it, some can't, it may be very effective for some people and it may not be effective for some people.
对于某些人来讲，还有可能是有害的。
It may also be harmful to some people.
所以它是属于研究阶段，里面的风险和利益是并存的。
So it belongs to the research stage, in which the risks and benefits coexist.
” 该负责人说。
"said the head.
金银潭医院和武汉血液制品研究公司也正在开展类似的临床研究。
Similar clinical studies are being conducted at the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital and Wuhan Haematology Research Company.
中国临床试验中心网站显示，2月19日，这两家单位申请注册了一项评价血浆疗法有效性及安全性的随机、双盲、平行对照、单中心临床研究。
On Feb. 19, the two organizations applied to register a randomized, double-blind, parallel, single-center clinical study to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of plasma therapy, according to the website of the China Clinical Trial Center.
中国临床试验注册中心网站显示，2月19日，金银潭医院和武汉血液制品有限公司申请注册关于血浆治疗的临床试验，纳入标准为重症患者。
On Feb. 19, Gold and Silver Pool Hospital and Wuhan Haematology Products Ltd. applied to register clinical trials for plasma treatment to include patients with severe illnesses, according to the website of the China Clinical Trial Registration Center.
研究的具体设计是，50人注射病毒灭活血浆，另外50人输入普通血浆进行对照。
The study was specifically designed to inject 50 people with inactivated plasma and another 50 with regular plasma.
一位参与研究的学者说，整个团队都在通宵推进这项工作。
One scholar involved in the study said the team worked all night to push the work forward.
纳入研究范围的是重型感染患者，危重患者则排除在外。
Patients with severe infections were included in the study, while critically ill patients were excluded.
这与金银潭医院院长张定宇2月16日对媒体讲述的血浆治疗适用范围一致—— 血浆疗法用于重症病人，看上去早期一些效果还不错，似能阻止他们继续滑向危重症， “但对危重症病人，治疗效果还有待评价。
This is in line with what the director of the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, Zhang Dingyu, told the media on Feb. 16 - Plasma therapy for patients with severe illnesses appears to be working well in the early days and seems to prevent them from sliding further into critical condition.
”目前的武汉，在救治重症患者一线，血浆治疗被视作必要选择。
At present, Wuhan, in the treatment of severe patients in the first line, plasma treatment is considered necessary choice.
“风险远远小于收益。
"The risks far outweigh the benefits.
” 张定宇说。
"said Zhang.
需要更多康复者血浆当下，血浆治疗的推行还面临最重要的一个现实问题，缺少足够多的康复者捐献血浆。
The need for more plasma from convalescent patients and the introduction of plasma therapy also face one of the most important practical problems, as there are not enough survivors to donate plasma.
黄晓波说，医院不少护士愿意捐献，但普通患者还是不多，"我们宣传了几个，都说要去跟家人商量一下，也还是有些顾虑。
Huang said many nurses at the hospital were willing to donate, but the average patient still wasn't many. We advertised it and said we wanted to talk to our families.
"事实上，最早一批捐献者都来自医院。
In fact, the first group of donors came from a hospital.
吴芬报名的第二天上午，就和9位同事到医院，一度病情很重的护士长都来了。
Wu Fen registered the next morning, and nine colleagues to the hospital, the once very serious head nurse came.
血站的人员带着设备上门采集，因为只带了8套一次性耗材，还有两位还是第二天自行去献血点献的。
Blood station personnel with the equipment door-to-door collection, because only eight sets of disposable supplies, two or the next day to donate their own blood to offer.
吴芬曾经献过两次血，都晕倒了，这次她隐瞒了历史。
Wu Fen, who once gave blood twice, fainted, this time concealing history.
轮到她是第二个，针管扎进皮肤，她转过头和同事聊天，缓解紧张感。
When it was her turn, the needle stuck into her skin and she turned to chat with her colleagues to relieve the tension.
到了原定的200ml，她又要求多抽一点，一共抽了300ml。
At the original 200 ml, she asked to smoke a little more, 300 ml altogether.
后来，所有女性都抽了300ml。
Later, all the women smoked 300 ml.
男性标准是400ml，吴芬说，尽管他们也要求多献，但工作人员拒绝了，“毕竟刚出院”。
The men's standard was 400ml, Wu said, but despite their request for more, the staff refused and "just got out of the hospital."
吴芬知道，这种成分献血短期内可恢复，对人体影响很小，不必有太多顾虑。
Wu Fen knew, this kind of composition donates blood to be able to recover short-term, to the human body influence is small, need not have too much consideration.
重要的是她可能可以帮到别人。
The important thing is that she may be able to help others.
截止2月20日，已有超过100位康复者捐献血浆，为240个危重病人抢救。
As of February 20, more than 100 convalescent patients had donated blood plasma to rescue 240 critically ill patients.
科技部副部长徐南平在政府发布会上介绍，承担项目的公司已经组织20个采浆团队到达11个省份，而此前国家卫健委已发文要求各地卫生系统支持这项工作。
Xu Nanping, vice minister of science and technology, told a government news conference that the company undertaking the project had organized 20 pulp-harvesting teams to reach 11 provinces, after the National Health Commission had sent a letter asking local health systems to support the work.
不过，相比患者的庞大需求，目前血浆依旧紧俏。
However, the plasma is still tight compared to the huge needs of patients.
2月19日，看到卫健委第六版《诊疗方案》后，刘正也发出了求助，他的岳父已经在金银潭医院重症监护室躺了二十天，曾经经历过一次抢救，情况危重，需要O型血浆。
On February 19, after seeing the sixth edition of the "Diagnosis and Treatment Programme," Liu Zheng sent out a request for help. His father-in-law had been in intensive care for 20 days in the intensive care unit of the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
这几天，刘正给医院和血站打了电话，医生反馈的是，能不能用要专家团队判断。
Over the past few days, Liu is on the phone to the hospital and the blood station, the doctor feedback is, can you use the expert team to judge.
血站也回复，可以沟通和要求点对点捐献，但找到相匹配的捐献者后，经过若干程序筛查生物检验确定是有效血浆后，才能由专家组综合评定是否使用。
Blood stations also responded by communicating and requesting point-to-point donations, but only after matching donors had been identified through a number of procedures for screening biological tests to determine effective plasma, could the Group make a comprehensive assessment of their use.
“20号给医生打了电话，说血浆是治疗的一个治疗手段，更多还是综合治疗。
"Number 20 called the doctor and said that plasma was a treatment, more than a combination of treatments.
" 刘正说。
Liu Zheng said.
和很多求助者一样，他也看到专业人士强调血浆治疗并非“仙药”，对于个体尤其危重患者而言，依旧有风险。
Like many suitors, he has seen professionals emphasize that plasma therapy is not a "miracle drug" and that there are still risks for individuals, especially those at risk.
但这不影响他把血浆视作全新的希望，“除了找血浆，别的忙也帮不上。
But this did not prevent him from seeing the plasma as a new hope. "There is nothing else to help but find plasma."
”等待血浆的过程里，岳父的情况不算乐观，连着几天没回微信，因为偶尔狂躁不安，一直在打镇静剂，处于昏睡状态。
While waiting for the plasma, his father-in-law did not look very good, and did not reply for days because of occasional restlessness, sedatives and lethargy.
刘正和家人找遍了亲戚、朋友，志愿者也纷纷帮忙。
Liu Zheng and his family have looked for relatives, friends, volunteers have also helped.
但直到2月24日晚上岳父去世，还是没找到合适的愿意捐献血浆的O型康复者。
But until his father-in-law died on the night of February 24, no suitable type O convalescent person was found willing to donate blood plasma.
社交平台上，越来越多的人发出血浆求助，其中不乏“熊猫血”的求助者，即便概率甚低，依旧在努力寻觅匹配者。
A growing number of people on social platforms are turning to plasma for help, including some seeking help with "panda blood," who, despite their low probability, are struggling to find a match.
2月22日上午，西安交大一附院首例治愈出院的新冠肺炎患者杜先生，再次回到医院捐献血浆。
Feb. 22 morning, Xi'an Jiaotong one hospital first cured the discharge of patients with New Crown Pneumonia Mr. Du, once again returned to the hospital donated plasma.
（文中刘正为化名）后台回复"读者群",加入更多讨论。
(Text in Chinese for alias) Background reply & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; Join us for more discussion.
小昼。
Daylight.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
应急的血浆。
Emergency plasma.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "极昼工作室";。
Var nickname = & quot; daytime studio & quot;;
var msg_title = "应急的血浆";。
var msg _ title = & quot; emergency plasma & quot;;
var msg_desc = "风险和希望并存。
var msg _ desc = & quot; both risk and hope.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="极昼工作室";。
var title = & quot; day studio & quot;;
