防疫优先，汽车业消费振兴还有硬仗要打。
Precaution priority, auto industry consumption to revive still have a hard fight.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 出行一客。
The following article comes from a trip.
Author 施智梁团队。
Author Team.
出行一客。
Take a trip.
《财经》杂志交通工业组创建，专注于交通出行领域新闻。
The Transport Industry Section of Caijing Magazine was founded to focus on news in the field of transport travel.
在这里，我们将带你联结出行、科技与未来。
Here, we will connect you with travel, technology and the future.
。
.
全球车企开始联盟整合，中国几十上百家汽车制造企业的局面将被打破。
Dozens of China's hundreds of auto makers will break down as global car companies begin to consolidate.
小公司生存更艰难，大公司有兼并红利。
Smaller firms survive harder, and larger ones have merger dividends.
线上售车等新渠道新业态可期图/中新文 |《财经》记者 王斌斌 李皙寅编辑 | 施智梁空空荡荡的街道上，门可罗雀的4S店透出目前中国车市的寒冷。
NEW CAPITAL CHARACTERISTICS / CHINESE NEW CHARACTERISTICS / Caijing, Wang Binbin Li Binbin, editor and minister & # 160; & # 45; On the empty streets of Shi Zhiliang, the sparsely-opened 4S store reflects the current chill in China's car market.
同比下滑92%，这个是2020年2月前两周的零售数据，断崖式的跌幅冲击着车企与经销商的信心，“再这样下去容易出问题。
YEAR down 92%, which is retail data for the first two weeks of February 2020, the cliff-style drop is hitting the confidence of car companies and dealers.
”一位经销商对《财经》记者直言，很多企业会撑不住。
Many businesses won't last, a distributor told Caijing.
原本在2019年四季度车市开始转暖的势头被打断，让业内诸多专家对2020年的中国车市更加悲观，2%、5%甚至10%的下滑都有人预测。
The momentum that began to warm up in the fourth quarter of 2019 was interrupted, leading industry experts to be more pessimistic about China's car market in 2020, with 2%, 5% or even 10% of the decline predicted.
政府也开始救市，商务部表态将促进汽车消费。
The government also began to bail out the city, and the Commerce Department said it would boost auto consumption.
市场可以悲观，不应该绝望，汽车电商、线上购车、直播卖车等新渠道新业态开始萌发，寒冬中汽车业的整合阻力也会小很多。
The market can be pessimistic, should not despair, car electricians, online car purchase, live car sales and other new channels such as the new industry began to sprout, the cold winter automotive industry integration resistance will be much smaller.
历劫过后，这何尝不是一次机遇？冻结的车市坐在二楼的办公室里，上海一位豪华车经销商总经理透过窗栅看向展厅，返程的员工们士气不佳。
A frozen car market is sitting in his office on the second floor, and the general manager of a Shanghai luxury-car dealership looks through the grating into the showroom, demoralizing employees returning home.
虽然，上海已经阳光明媚，但消费者心中仍有忌惮，嘴里念着安全第一，一天下来进店客户仍是寥寥无几。
Although the sun is shining brightly in Shanghai, consumers are still afraid to come into their stores at the end of the day with security first in their mouths.
“这波很多企业会撑不住的。
"A lot of businesses are not going to make it.
”他在电话那头叹了口气，对《财经》记者说，想到包括人工在内的运营成本，加上库存车辆的背后的资金沉淀，再这样下去容易出问题。
'It's easy to go on like this, 'he told Caijing, sighing at the end of the phone, thinking about the operational costs, including labor, and the deposits of money behind the vehicles in stock.
经销商的担忧不无道理。
Dealers are right to worry.
乘联会提供的数据显示，2020年2月前两周的市场零售基本处于冰封状态，数据惨淡，第一周日均销售仅811辆，第二周日均零售4098辆，前两周总体同比下滑92%。
Market sales for the first two weeks of February 2020 were mostly frozen, with sales averaging 811 a day in the first week and 4,098 on Sunday, down 92% year-on-year, according to the Federation.
各地经销商的开业数量少，经销店客流很少，只有特别急迫的购车需求，消费者才在疫情期间购车。
Dealers around the number of small opening, dealership traffic is very small, only particularly urgent purchase demand, consumers during the epidemic period to buy cars.
不止是消费者，经销商更希望安全。
It's not just consumers. Dealers want safety.
一位国资背景的经销商销售负责人坦言，相比赚钱，“店里不要出事儿最重要”。
A distributor with a state-owned background confessed that "nothing is more important in the store" than making money.
这段时间店里施行值班制，有意减少人员聚集。
During this time the store operates on duty, deliberately reducing the concentration of staff.
为了满足上级部门要求，该经销商临街的店门已被关闭，顾客只能从边门进入，这些人还需要额头上“来上一枪”。
To meet higher-ups' demands, the dealer's street door had been closed, and customers had to enter through the side door, who also needed a "shot" on the forehead.
这位负责人表示，现在大家拿着“最低收入”过活的时候，才明白啥叫“黑天鹅”，日常现金流正常太重要了。
The official said people now live with a "minimum income" to understand what is called "black swans," normal daily cash flow is too important.
在这一背景下，还有消费者试图“雪上加霜”。
In this context, consumers are trying to "add insult to injury."
“我们全员都在帮忙打催收电话。
"All of us are helping to collect calls.
”一位主机厂汽车金融公司的员工对《财经》记者透露，此前他打了将近200个电话，大多是逾期时间不长的客户，安抚他们的同时强调要正常还款。
An employee at Caijing, a home-plant auto finance company, told Caijing that he had made nearly 200 calls, mostly from customers with short due dates, reassuring them while emphasizing regular payments.
在他看来，车贷公司最怕有人在刻意“撸口子”，带有恶意地逾期贷款，试图拖倒公司以便逃脱追缴。
In his view, the auto loan companies are most afraid of being deliberately "defrauded," maliciously defaulting on overdue loans in an attempt to pull down the company in order to avoid recovery.
一天下来，他也是一肚子气，有的客户以国家让我待在家的名义，拒绝按期还贷，说得理直气壮。
At the end of the day, he is also angry, some customers let me stay at home in the name of the State, refused to repay the loans on time, said a strong.
销量遇到困难，汽车产能也在下滑。
Sales are running into trouble and car capacity is slipping.
根据中国汽车工业协会公布的数据，截止2月12日，全国183个整车生产基地中，已有59个基地开始复工复产，占32.2%。
According to figures released by the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers, as of February 12, 59, or 32.2 percent, of the country's 183 full-scale production bases had resumed operations.
在此之后更多车企复工，但是产能相较以往减少很多。
More car companies have since returned to work, but with much less capacity than before.
一家国内销量前三的汽车公司员工告诉《财经》记者，他们的工厂复工，但考虑到防防疫需要人员不能密集，以及销售等因素，工厂从原来的三班倒减少为一班。
An employee of one of the country's top three auto companies told Caijing that their factory had returned to work, but that the factory had been reduced from three to one, taking into account factors such as lack of staff density and sales.
由于工作日减少、工人复工时间不定、供应链也受影响等因素，瑞银汽车行业分析师鞏旻预计，今年一季度中国汽车产能将下降20%甚至更多。
UBS Auto analyst Pin Min expects China's auto production capacity to fall by 20% or more in the first quarter of this year, due to fewer workdays, erratic workdays and supply-chain disruptions.
销量难现SARS后的爆发新冠肺炎疫情很容易让人联想到2003年的SARS疫情。
The outbreak of new crown pneumonia following the SARS outbreak is reminiscent of the SARS outbreak in 2003.
在2003年，SARS疫情触发了老百姓对私密出行空间安全性的向往，当年轿车市场二季度同比增长近70%，三季度也同比增长超过50%。
In 2003, the SARS epidemic triggered people's yearning for privacy, with the car market growing by nearly 70% YoY in the second quarter and by more than 50% YoY in the third quarter.
此一时彼一时。
Time after time.
十七年前中国的汽车保有量只有2400万辆，首次购车率95%以上，公众在认识到私家车的出行安全性之后，加速引爆了中国的汽车消费。
Seventeen years ago, when China had only 24 million cars and bought more than 95% of its cars for the first time, the public, aware of the safety of private cars, accelerated automobile consumption in China.
如今一年的汽车销量就有2000多万辆，而且换购和复购的消费者比例明显提高。
Today, more than 20 million cars are sold a year, and the proportion of consumers who buy and repurchase cars has risen sharply.
和SARS之后相比，现在的汽车不再是必需品。
Compared with SARS, cars today are no longer a necessity.
正如安永合伙人叶亮所言，二、三季度可能会迎来一波需求反弹和释放，因为私家车的安全性和便利性受到重视，但今时不同往日，消费增加不意味着逆转爆发 ，疫情对 2020 年整体车市仍然是弊大于利。
As Ernst & Young's partner Ye Liang says, the second and third quarters are likely to see a surge in demand, as private cars "safety and convenience are valued, but unlike today, when increased consumption does not mean a reversal of the outbreak, the epidemic will continue to do more harm than good for the entire car market in 2020.
中汽协的调查结果同样也不乐观。
The AAA's findings are also not encouraging.
中汽协透露，他们调研了300多家整车和零部件企业，但反馈的信息综合分析表明，本次疫情对中国经济的短期影响大于2003年的非典，对于本来处于调整期的汽车行业影响更大。
The CSA said it had investigated more than 300 auto parts and components companies, but a comprehensive analysis of feedback showed that the short-term impact of the epidemic on China's economy was greater than that of 2003, with a greater impact on the auto industry, which was already undergoing an adjustment period.
疫情影响下，2020年的车市或许会变得更糟。
With the epidemic, the 2020 auto market could get worse.
2019年四季度，中国车市已经从近两年的下跌中呈现出止跌回暖的迹象。
In the fourth quarter of 2019, China's auto market has shown signs of slowing from its nearly two-year decline.
但这一回暖势头被疫情打断。
But this time the heat was interrupted by the outbreak.
具体来看，2019年2月是春节，2020年春节在1月，如果没有疫情，本应该是1月同比下跌，2月同比上升。
Specifically, February 2019 is the Spring Festival, 2020 Spring Festival in January, if not for the outbreak, should have been January year-on-year decline, February year-on-year rise.
但受疫情影响，中国乘联会秘书长崔东树表示1-2月份受疫情影响，中国车市下滑幅度可能在25%-30%左右。
But Cui Dongshu, secretary-general of CAF, said the Chinese auto market was likely to fall by 25-30 percent in January-February due to the epidemic.
长安汽车执行副总裁也表示，若疫情在一季度末得到控制，4-6月市场开始逐步恢复，预计全年狭义乘用车同比下降约5%。
Chang'an's executive vice president also said that if the epidemic were contained by the end of the quarter, the market would begin to recover gradually in April and June, with narrow passenger cars expected to fall by about 5 per cent year-on-year.
贝恩咨询认为，若不考虑政策等额外利好因素，疫情若能在一季度结束，服务业及中小企业从业者的消费力损失可控，全年新车销售仍有望与去年持平；如疫情持续时间更长，导致整体经济和消费力进一步承压，悲观情景下新车销售将可能面临10%甚至更多下跌。
The company believes new-car sales could face a 10% or more decline in the pessimistic scenario if the epidemic ends in the first quarter and losses in spending power among service and small and medium-sized enterprise workers are manageable and sales of new vehicles are expected to stay the same as last year.
与此同时，行业协会也在呼吁新政。
Meanwhile, industry associations are calling for a new deal.
中国汽车流通协会呼吁，打破部分城市实施的限购、限行；同时，助力二手车交易，从而提振新车销售。
The China Automobile Circulation Association is calling for a break with restrictions and restrictions imposed by some cities, as well as trading in second-hand cars to boost sales of new cars.
中国汽车工业协会则向有关部门建议全国范围内实施国六排放标准。
The China Automobile Industry Association has proposed to the relevant departments to implement the six national emission standards nationwide.
此前，鞏旻对《财经》记者表示，他预计政府不会出台特别强的刺激汽车消费的政策。
Earlier, Mr. Zheng told Caijing that he didn't expect the government to have a particularly strong policy to stimulate auto consumption.
但结果是他低估了汽车行业的重要性，救市政策开始逐步推出。
But as a result, he underestimated the importance of the auto industry, and bail-outs began to unfold gradually.
2月20日，商务部市场运行司副司长王斌在新闻发布会上表示，将深入贯彻落实中央关于“积极稳定汽车等传统大宗消费”的重要决策部署以及《国务院办公厅关于加快发展流通促进商业消费的意见》精神，会同相关部门研究出台进一步稳定汽车消费的政策措施，减轻疫情对汽车消费的影响。
On February 20, Wang Bin, deputy director of the marketing department of the Ministry of Commerce, said at a press conference that he would follow up on the central government's important decision-making arrangements on "actively stabilizing traditional large-scale consumption of automobiles" and the "Opinions of the General Office of the State Council on Accelerating Circulation for Commercial Consumption.
同时，鼓励各地根据形势变化，因地制宜出台促进新能源汽车消费、增加传统汽车限购指标和开展汽车以旧换新等举措，促进汽车消费。
At the same time, local governments are encouraged to adopt measures to promote consumption of new energy vehicles, increase purchase quotas for traditional automobiles and exchange cars for renewal, in light of changing circumstances.
但这样的表态与政策目前来看杯水车薪，如果疫情短期未得到有效控制，市场和专业人士目前呼吁的更多更强力政策或许正在路上。
But such pronouncements and policies are currently woefully inadequate, and if the epidemic is not brought under effective control in the short term, the more forceful policies that markets and professionals are now calling for may be on the way.
危中寻机“一个春节马路上空空荡荡，天气照样雾霾，能不能别再让汽车背锅。
"A Spring Festival street is empty, the weather is still foggy, can not let the car back pot.
”天津一家美系车经销商店总直言，虽然厂家给了支持，但归根结底，开源最重要。
In Tianjin, a department store for car dealers is blunt, and while manufacturers have given support, in the final analysis, open source is the most important.
唇亡齿寒，主机厂在给予经销商包括调整绩效考核机制、增加免息期等方式，帮忙经销商克服难关。
Cold lips, the main machine factory in the dealer including adjustment of performance appraisal mechanism, increase interest-free period, and other means to help dealers overcome difficulties.
疫情期间，各大车企展开了对线上营销模式及线下“无接触模式”的探索，“汽车直播”、“云看车”、“零接触”开拓了汽车经销的新场景，利用互联网的数字化工具箱，车企开始进行汽车销售端的线上化尝试。
During the epidemic, carmakers began to explore online marketing models and off-line "no contact mode," "live car", "cloud see car," "zero contact" opened up a new car distribution scene, using the Internet's digital toolbox, car companies began to carry out on-line sales of the car.
虽然难比SARS之后的爆发，不过新冠肺炎疫情期间，老百姓乘坐公共交通受限，放大了私家车安全私密移动空间的优势。
Although difficult to compare with the outbreak after SARS, but during the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic, people limited public transportation, amplifying the advantages of private cars safe private mobile space.
咨询公司威尔森在报告中指出，被抑制的购车需求后移，将会促进无车用户首次买车，线上的需求会提升显著。
The pent-up demand for cars will spur first-time car buyers and demand on-line will increase dramatically, Wilson, a consultancy, said in a statement.
确实，消费者大多憋在家里，但这并没有封堵意向消费者买车的心。
True, consumers tend to hold back at home, but that doesn't discourage shoppers from buying cars.
因此，汽车电商再度活跃起来，不同以往的是，这次更多店里的销售顾问，开始上网扮演网红“李佳琦”，搞起汽车带货。
As a result, car electricians became active again, unlike in the past, this time more shop sales consultants, began playing the role of the online red "Li Jiaqi," to pick up the delivery of cars.
“再不突破，连土都没得吃了。
"If we don't break through, we'll get nothing to eat.
”名为“福州福瑞林肯梅桂说车”的主播对《财经》记者直言，从没想过汽车也能直播带货，但想着就算不能卖车，也能做宣传的心态，在直播中多些幽默、认真，让他建立了直播团队，还有了粉丝团。
The anchorman, Fuzhou Ferry Lincoln said the car had never thought cars could be delivered live, but thought that if they could not sell their cars, they could do so.
线上平台打破了地域限制，这对身处疫区一线的湖北经销商来说，堪称雪中送炭。
The online platform broke the geographical limit, which was a boon to Hubei dealers on the front line of the epidemic area.
“说到底，大部分人是被逼的。
"After all, most people are forced.
”麻瓜说车，线上是懂车帝平台上的主播；线下是湖北武汉一自主品牌经销商的投资人兼总经理，他对《财经》记者坦言当市场部、销售顾问都不好意思后，自己是被迫当“网红”的。
Muggle said that he was forced to become a "net red" after he confessed to Caijing reporter that he was embarrassed when the marketing department and sales consultants were embarrassed by the fact that he was undercut by the investors and general manager of an independent brand distributor in Wuhan, Hubei Province.
每天在家里，举着平板给看不到的观众展示车型，一天七小时的自说自话。
Every day at home, holding a tablet to show off the car to an invisible audience, seven hours a day for self-talk.
从最开始怕冷场的尴尬，到假想观众在眼前，从被观众带着走，到主动带节奏。
From the first fear of cold embarrassment, to the imaginary audience in front of the eyes, from being taken away by the audience, to the active band rhythm.
经过持续努力，有意向客户说解封后来看车，保有用户说届时来修车。
After a sustained effort, the customer said that the unsealing later to see the car, keep the user said to repair the car.
有趣的是，他还帮助其他地区的经销商同行介绍销售线索。
Interestingly, he also helps dealers in other parts of the world to introduce sales leads.
在中国汽车流通协会会长沈进军看来，伴随着这次疫情的慢慢退去，很多新的营销方式以及业态会涌现出来。
Shen Jian, president of the China Automobile Circulation Association, said many new marketing methods and patterns would emerge as the epidemic slowly receded.
“通过一个事件可以将整个行业的格局重塑。
"One event can reshape the whole industry.
”这个格局重塑，或许不只是汽车电商或者说线上、线下购车的打通，更大的机遇来自于国内汽车厂商的重组与整合。
The reshaping of the landscape may not be just the opening of car dealerships or offline and online car purchases; greater opportunities will come from the restructuring and consolidation of domestic auto makers.
随着中国汽车业的发展，很多中小车企应运而生，也顺着趋势赚了钱，但是在全球车企开始联盟整合的大趋势下，中国几十上百家汽车制造企业显得与众不同。
With the development of China's automobile industry, many small and medium-sized enterprises have emerged, along with the trend to make money, but in the global trend of integration of car manufacturers, dozens of Chinese car manufacturers appear to be different.
在加剧的汽车寒冬下，汽车行业优胜劣汰，各大车企之间的兼并重组、联盟合作可以更顺利的开展。
In the worsening of the automotive winter, the industry out of the fittest, the merger and restructuring between the major car enterprises, alliance cooperation can be more smoothly launched.
或许有些残酷，但确实也是中国汽车做大做强的机遇。
It may be cruel, but it is also an opportunity for Chinese cars to become bigger and stronger.
【版权声明】本作品著作权归《财经》独家所有，授权深圳市腾讯计算机系统有限公司独家享有信息网络传播权，任何第三方未经授权，不得转载。
Copyright Declaration The copyright of this work belongs exclusively to Caijing, and authorizes Shenzhen Tencent Computer System Co. Ltd. to enjoy exclusive rights of information network transmission.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click Here for more information about the epidemic:: Archives & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and may not be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
防疫优先，汽车业消费振兴还有硬仗要打。
Precaution priority, auto industry consumption to revive still have a hard fight.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "防疫优先，汽车业消费振兴还有硬仗要打";。
var msg _ title = & quot; priority in immunization; renewed auto consumption; and & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "全球车企开始联盟整合，中国几十上百家汽车制造企业的局面将被打破。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; China's dozens of auto makers will be broken when global auto makers begin to consolidate.
小公司生存更艰难，大公司有兼并红利。
Smaller firms survive harder, and larger ones have merger dividends.
线上售车等新渠道新业态可期";。
New lines such as online car sales & amp; quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
