全球价值链压力凸显，中美德供需承压最重。
The pressure of global value chain is obvious.
邵宇陈达飞李志骞。
Qian Li Qian Chen Da Fei Shao Yu.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
文 |邵宇 陈达飞 李志骞中国在全球价值链中的地位显著提升，已成为亚洲价值链网络的中心。
Qian Li, Qian's position in global value chains, has become central to Asia's value chain network.
继2008年金融危机、中美贸易冲突之后，新型冠状肺炎疫情将继续对全球价值链形成负向冲击，中国、美国与德国作为三个核心国，其受冲击的程度将更为显著。
Following the 2008 financial crisis and the Sino-US trade conflict, the new coronary pneumonia epidemic will continue to have a negative impact on global value chains, with China, the United States and Germany being the three core countries that will be hit even more severely.
2月26日0至24时，全国新增确诊病例433例，2月24日除外，已连续5日位于500以内。
Between 0000 and 2400 hours on 26 February, 433 new cases were confirmed nationwide, except on 24 February, when they were within 500 consecutive days.
其中，湖北409例，非湖北24例，较25日均有反弹，但2月10日开始的复工复产并未引发疫情的二次爆发。
Of the 409 cases in Hubei and 24 cases in non-Hubei, all rebounded on February 25, but the resumption of work on February 10 did not trigger a second outbreak of the epidemic.
钟南山院士最新表态，认为有望在4月底控制住疫情的扩散。
Academicians Zhong Nan Shan recently said that it is expected to control the spread of the epidemic by the end of April.
但就在国内疫情攻坚战胜利在望之际，海外疫情的形势却愈演愈烈（参考图1），尤其是韩国和日本；其次是意大利与伊朗；美国的风险正在逐步暴露，口罩等防护物资已出现短缺。
But, just as victory in the battle against the domestic epidemic looms large (see chart 1), particularly in South Korea and Japan, followed by Italy and Iran; risks in the United States are gradually emerging, and protective materials such as masks are in short supply.
2月26日，海外新增确诊病例首次超过国内（参考图2），这表明，未来一段时间，疫情在海外的扩散或将成为影响全球经济的主要因素。
On 26 February, for the first time, there were more confirmed cases overseas than in the country (see figure 2), suggesting that the spread of the epidemic abroad may be a major factor affecting the global economy for some time to come.
图1：新冠肺炎疫情在海外的扩散：累计确诊病例数据来源：WIND,东方证券图2：国内外新增确诊病例出现“交叉”数据来源：WIND,东方证券说明：2月12和13日由于统计口径的调整而出现显著扰动，图中以均值插空法对其进行平滑处理。
Figure 1: Diffusion of New Crown Pneumonia Abroad: Cumulative Confirmed Case Data Source: WIND, Eastern Securities Chart 2: Cross-referenced Data Sources: WIND, Eastern Securities Note: Significant disturbances due to statistical calibres on 12 and 13 February, which are smoothed by means of mean interpolation.
截止2月26日24时，韩国累计确诊病例为1261例（截至2月27日14时已增至1595例），且仍在快速扩张阶段（随着检测范围扩大，确诊人数短期内还将增加）；日本累计确诊894例（“钻石公主号”游轮占比约75%），新增趋势虽所缓和，但部分原因在于检测范围有限，若疫情不能在短期内控制，或将影响2020年日本奥运会的举办；意大利累计确诊470例，过去4日，平均每日新增近100例；伊朗确诊95例（最新数据为139例）；美国方面，由于尚未扩大检测面积（截至2月24日，共检测429例），确诊病例数量仅为60例，但从美国疾控与预防中心人员的发言和特朗普在白宫的新闻发布会内容来看，形式不容乐观。
As of 2400 on February 26, the cumulative number of confirmed cases in South Korea was 1,261 (rising to 1,595 as of February 27), and the number of confirmed cases is still growing (with 429 cases detected as of February 27).
2月27日最新消息显示，美国疾控中心已确认了一起社区集聚传播案例。
The United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has identified a case of community gathering and spreading, according to the February 27 update.
受疫情全球蔓延的影响，全球资本市场本周开盘便大幅下挫，道琼斯工业指数连续两日跌幅超过3%，纳斯达克指数过去4个交易日累计跌幅8.87%，日经指数与韩国综合指数也都出现了较大幅度的下跌。
Global capital markets fell sharply at the start of the week, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average down more than 3% for two straight days, the Nasdaq down 8.87% over the past four days, and both the Nikkei and South Korean composite indexes have fallen considerably.
备受关注的是美国的情况，毕竟美国股市的估值处于历史高位。
Much attention has been paid to the situation in the US, where stock market valuations are at historically high levels.
如果海外疫情继续扩散，引发各国采取高级别响应措施，那么，中国对外贸易的压力将从供给端的单边压力转为供给与需求双边承压，价值链首尾不能相顾，困难重重。
If the overseas epidemic continues to spread, triggering a high-level response, the pressure on China's foreign trade will shift from supply-side unilateral pressure to supply-side pressure, with the value chain facing difficulties.
一方面，国内仍在有序复工复产，产能尚未恢复至常态水平，日韩位于价值链上游，疫情在日韩的扩散或影响中国中间产品的进口，进而影响最终品生产；另一方面，在国内需求尚未复苏的同时，疫情在海外的扩散也影响国外对中国出口品的需求。
On the one hand, the country is still returning to work in an orderly fashion, production capacity has not returned to normal levels, Japan and South Korea are located upstream in the value chain, the spread of the epidemic in Japan and South Korea affects China's imports of intermediate products and hence final production; on the other hand, the spread of the epidemic abroad affects foreign demand for Chinese exports while domestic demand has not recovered.
本次疫情是继中美贸易纠纷之后，再一次对中国在全球价值链（GVC）中的地位的压力测试。
The outbreak is yet another stress test of China's position in the global value chain (GVC), following a trade dispute with the US.
三足鼎立的全球价值链格局全球产业链“三足鼎立”格局已经形成，全球化向区域化转变，中国、美国和德国分别作为亚洲、美洲和欧洲的中心国，逐渐形成各自形成产业链“闭环”。
The three-pronged global value chain pattern of the global industrial chain has taken shape, globalization has changed to regionalism, and China, the United States and Germany, as the centres of Asia, America and Europe, have gradually formed their own "closed-loop" industrial chains.
21世纪以来，基于全球价值链的产业分工和贸易发生了深刻的变化。
Since the twenty-first century, profound changes have taken place in the division of labour and trade based on global value chains.
一方面，商品贸易虽然仍是主体，但服务贸易（如ICT、知识产权、金融等），以及数字化产品的重要性越来越高。
On the one hand, while merchandise trade remains the dominant sector, trade in services (e.g. ICT, intellectual property rights, finance, etc.) and digital products are becoming increasingly important.
根据麦肯锡的统计，如果将数字服务、商品贸易中附带的服务以及跨国公司子公司的无形资产等都纳入服务的统计范畴的话，2017年全球的服务贸易增加值总量已经超过商品贸易增加值总量；另一方面，价值链格局的区域化趋势更加明显，一个突出的变化是中国在全球价值链分工的地位显著提升，取代了日本，而成为亚洲贸易中心（hub）。
According to McKinsey, if services such as digital services, services incidental to merchandise trade and intangible assets of subsidiaries of TNCs are included in services statistics, total value added to global services trade in 2017 already exceeds the total value added of merchandise trade. On the other hand, the regionalization of value chain patterns has become more pronounced.
图3至图4分别描述的是基于供给侧和需求侧全球产业链网络——中间品贸易的简单网络与复杂网络（一次跨境为简单网络，多次跨境为复杂网络）——的变迁，它基本可以代表全球贸易网络的密度。
Figures 3 to 4 depict changes in supply-side and demand-side networks of global industrial chains - simple and complex networks of intermediate trade (one that is simple across borders, and many that are complex across borders), which largely represent the density of global trade networks.
供给侧是指以主要生产国或出口国为核心，如果网络中大多数国家的大部分进口都来自某个国家，则将该国家作为供给侧的中心国（supply hub）。
The supply side refers to the country with the main producer or exporter at its core, and where most of the countries in the network import most of their imports from one country, using that country as a supply-side hub.
气泡大小代表该国的出口增加值在全球总出口增加值中所占的份额；每个贸易伙伴之间的增加值在总增加值中所占的比重由连线的粗细表示；箭头的方向表示增加值的流向；中国、美国和德国作为商品和服务的核心供给者，是外围国家主要的进口来源地，从而在全球贸易总增加值中所占的份额也最大。
Bubble size represents the share of the country's export value added in total global export value added; the share of value added among each trading partner in total value added is expressed by the thickness of the line; the direction of the arrow indicates the direction of value added; and China, the United States and Germany, as core suppliers of goods and services, are the main sources of imports for peripheral countries and thus account for the largest share of total global trade value added.
从供给侧的演变来看，较为显著的变化出现在亚洲。
In terms of the evolution of the supply side, the more significant changes have occurred in Asia.
从2000年到2017年，亚洲的中心国逐渐从日本变为中国，而且同样是作为中心国，日本与中国的地位也是有差异的，日本对美国的依存度更高，而中国在复杂产业链网络中与美国并未直接相连，与中国直接相连的国家数量超过美国，因为原来从美国进口的国家很多转向了中国，如日本和韩国等；复杂网络的全球价值链“闭环”特征更加明显。
From 2000 to 2017, the center of Asia gradually changed from Japan to China, and as a central country, Japan's position vis-à-vis China is also different. Japan is not directly dependent on the US, while China is more directly connected to the US because many of the countries originally imported from the US have moved to China, such as Japan and South Korea.
图3：供给侧全球价值链网络资料来源：Meng et al.,2018;OECD&amp;WTO《全球价值链报告2019》从需求侧的演变来看，2000年，从简单网络来看，全球的需求中心只有美国与德国，日本虽可以被看作是亚洲的中心，但仍有大量亚洲国家与美国直接相连，表明美国是这些国家的最主要出口目的地，而从复杂网络来看，德国的中心地位更显著，亚洲则呈现出一种“去中心的”结构。
Figure 3: Supply-side GVCs Source: Meng et al., 2018; OECD & amp; WTO Global Value Chain Report 2019. In terms of demand-side evolution, global demand centres in 2000 were only the US and Germany, while Japan could be seen as the centre of Asia.
2017年，最明显的变化是中国确立了亚洲中间品需求的中心国地位，美国在简单网络与复杂网络中的中心地位有显著差异，在复杂网络中，美国仅与加拿大和墨西哥相连。
In 2017, the most significant change was the establishment of China as the central country for Asian intermediate demand, with the US significantly different from the central place of simple and complex networks, in which the US is linked only to Canada and Mexico.
图4：需求侧全球价值链网络资料来源：Meng et al.,2018;OECD&amp;WTO《全球价值链报告2019》从信息与通信技术（ICT）行业来看。
Figure 4: Demand-side global value chain network source: Meng et al., 2018; OECD & amp; WTO Global Value Chain Report 2019 in terms of the information and communications technology (ICT) industry.
图5为供给侧的演变，可以看出，从2000年到2017年，ICT的网络拓扑结构发生了巨大变化。
Figure 5 shows the evolution of the supply side, which shows that the network topology of ICT changed dramatically from 2000 to 2017.
2017年中国取代日本，成为简单和复杂GVC网络的全球ICT供应中心。
China overtook Japan in 2017 as the global ICT supply hub for simple and complex GVC networks.
而且可以看出，在三个中心当中，中国分别于德国和美国直接相连，但箭头的指向都是从中国出发的，这表明，在ICT行业，中国是德国和美国的重要增加值来源国，也即中国是德国与美国ICT产品的重要出口目的地。
And, of the three centers, China is directly linked to Germany and the US, but the arrows point to China, suggesting that China is an important source of value added for Germany and the US in the ICT sector, and that China is an important export destination for ICT products from Germany and the US.
而且，从连线的粗细来看，中国对美国的贡献更大。
And, judging by the thickness of the connection, China's contribution to the US is even greater.
就亚洲的情况来看，日本在ICT供应网络中的地位显著下降，其在2000年贸易网络中的中心地位分散至包括中国、韩国和中国台湾在内的其他国家。
In the case of Asia, Japan's position in the ICT supply network has declined significantly, with its central position in the trade network decentralized to other countries, including China, South Korea and Taiwan, China, in 2000.
当然，中国ICT产品出口的一半以上份额仍由外资在华企业生产。
Of course, more than half of China's ICT exports are still produced by foreign companies in China.
图5：供给侧全球价值链网络（信息与通信部门）资料来源：Meng et al.,2018;OECD&amp;WTO《全球价值链报告2019》以中国为中心的亚洲价值链格局下文用前向关联所产生的国内增加值（DVA_F）来衡量一国经由出口所产生的国内增值。
Figure 5: Supply-side global value chain network (information and communication sector) Source: Meng et al., 2018; OECD & amp; WTO Global Value Chain Report 2019. China-centric Asian value chain patterns are measured by the domestic value added (DVA _ F) generated by forward linkages below.
图6分别从出口与进口两个维度展示了2000年至2018年亚洲DVA_F的变化，可以看出，亚洲在全球价值链中的份额不断增加，而且，出口增加值的份额要显著高于进口增加值份额。
Figure 6 illustrates the evolution of DVA _ F in Asia between 2000 and 2018 from the export and import dimensions, respectively, showing that Asia's share of global value chains is increasing and that the share of export value added is significantly higher than that of import value added.
出口增加值份额从2000年的23%增长到2018年的30.2%；同期，进口增加值份额从19.7%增长到26%。
The share of value added in exports increased from 23 per cent in 2000 to 30.2 per cent in 2018; the share of value added in imports increased from 19.7 per cent to 26 per cent over the same period.
图6：亚洲在全球贸易增加值中的份额数据来源：ADB，东方证券图7和图8分别从出口目的地和进口来源地对增加值的结构进行了拆解。
Figure 6: Data sources on Asia's share of global trade value added: ADB, Eastern Securities figures 7 and 8 disassemble the structure of value added from export destinations and sources of imports, respectively.
从图7可以看出，亚洲自身的贡献率约为三分之一，且比较稳定，基本维持在在30%到34%之间。
As can be seen from figure 7, the contribution of Asia itself is about one third and relatively stable, at between 30 and 34 per cent.
较为显著的变出出现在北美和世界其他地区，前者份额从21.3%降至13.4%，降幅约8个百分点；后者份额从31.3%提高到36.7%，增加了5.4个百分点。
A more significant shift occurred in North America, where the share fell by about 8 percentage points, from 21.3 per cent to 13.4 per cent, and in the rest of the world, where it increased by 5.4 percentage points, from 31.3 per cent to 36.7 per cent.
欧洲的份额比较稳定。
The share of Europe is relatively stable.
这表明，从出口目的地和增加值的贡献角度来说，相对而言，北美对于亚洲的影响在下降。
This suggests a relative decline in North America's influence in Asia in terms of export destinations and value added contributions.
图7：亚洲出口产品附加值（按出口目的地分类）数据来源：ADB，东方证券从进口附加值的角度来说，也能得到相同的结论。
Figure 7: Value added of Asian exports (by export destination) Data source: ADB, Eastern Securities can reach the same conclusion in terms of import value added.
图7显示了出口到亚洲（也即亚洲进口）的产品的国内增加值的分配，其意思是，在世界各地经由出口所产生的国内增加值中，亚洲贡献了多大的份额。
Figure 7 shows the distribution of GDP for exports to Asia (i.e. imports from Asia), meaning how much of the world's GDP generated through exports is accounted for by Asia.
可以看出，亚洲自身的份额也比较稳定，但相比较于出口增加值，进口增加值的份额更高，在2018年达到了39%。
As can be seen, Asia's own share is also relatively stable, but the share of import value added in relation to export value added is higher, reaching 39 per cent in 2018.
世界其他地区的份额仅次于亚洲自身，从2000年的31.1%增加到2018年的37%；欧洲的出口增加值比较稳定，约为15%。
The rest of the world's share is second only to Asia's own, rising from 31.1 per cent in 2000 to 37 per cent in 2018; Europe's export value added is relatively stable, at about 15 per cent.
北美的份额减半，从2000年的16.6%下降到2018年的8.6%。
North America's share was halved, from 16.6 per cent in 2000 to 8.6 per cent in 2018.
图8：亚洲进口产品附加值（按出口来源地分类）数据来源：ADB，东方证券综合来说，亚洲在全球价值链中的地位在不断提升，结合上下文来看，作为亚洲价值链的核心，中国在其中的贡献度较高；分进出口来看，亚洲在全球出口增加值中的份额高于进口；分区域来看，亚洲是其自身增加值的最重要贡献者，除美国和欧洲以外的其他地区的贡献度上升，美国的在亚洲的进口与出口增加值中的份额都显著下降。
Figure 8: Value added of Asian imports (by source of export) Data source: ADB, Oriental Securities Aggregate, where China's contribution is higher as the heart of the Asian value chain; Asia's share of global export value added is higher than imports in terms of exports and imports; and the United States' share of imports and export value added in Asia has declined significantly.
对中国而言，区域价值链的地位，以及区域贸易的重要性，优先级更高。
For China, the position of regional value chains and the importance of regional trade are of higher priority.
亚洲价值链网络亚洲内部的价值链网络可以由区域内DVA_F的来源和目的地的动态变化来反映。
The value chain network within Asia can be reflected by the dynamic changes in the origin and destination of DVA _ F in the region.
图9至图13从区域内商品与服务贸易总体和结构上说明了区域内价值链分工，包括四个子区域——中亚和西亚、东亚、南亚、东南亚（包括斐济）和中国、日本、印度三个国家。
Figures 9 to 13 provide an overview and structure of intraregional trade in goods and services, including four sub-regions - Central and West Asia, East Asia, South Asia, South-East Asia (including Fiji) and China, Japan and India.
“来源”与“目的地”的节点长度表示某一区域（或一国）在亚洲的增加值的份额，连接弧的厚度表示其与另一区域（或一国）在价值链分配上的关系。
The length of the "source" and "destination" nodes represents the share of value added in one region (or country) in Asia, and the thickness of the connecting arc indicates its relationship to another region (or country) in the distribution of the value chain.
图9从总体上描述了亚洲出口增加值的来源与目的地及其结构，左图为2000年的情况，右图为2018年的情况。
Figure 9 provides an overview of the sources and destinations of Asian export value added and its structure, with the left-hand chart showing the situation in 2000 and the right-hand figure showing 2018.
可以看出，在2000年，日本占亚洲出口增加值的份额最大，为35.6%。
As can be seen, Japan accounted for the largest share of Asian export value added in 2000, at 35.6 per cent.
其中，46.1％是由东亚贡献的，33.3％来自东南亚（和斐济），17.4％来自中国。
Of these, 46.1 per cent was contributed by East Asia, 33.3 per cent by South-East Asia (and Fiji) and 17.4 per cent by China.
东亚和东南亚（和斐济）仅次于日本之后，在亚洲出口增加值中的占比分别为23.5％和21.3％。
East and South-East Asia (and Fiji), after Japan, account for 23.5 per cent and 21.3 per cent of Asian export value added, respectively.
图9：亚洲出口增加值的来源与目的地（所有商品和服务）数据来源：ADB，东方证券2018年，亚洲价值链网络结构发生了显著变化。
Figure 9: Sources and destinations of export value added in Asia (all goods and services): ADB, Oriental Securities In 2018, the Asian value chain network structure underwent significant changes.
如前文所述，中国替代了日本，成为亚洲价值链的中心国，占亚洲出口增加值中的份额三分之一（34.4％），而日本的份额从2000年的35.6%降至2018年的16.8%。
As mentioned earlier, China replaced Japan as the hub of Asian value chains, accounting for one third (34.4 per cent) of Asian export value added, while Japan's share fell from 35.6 per cent in 2000 to 16.8 per cent in 2018.
第一产业方面。
Primary sector.
在2000年，东南亚（包括斐济）占比最高，为51.4%，其中，近一半是由日本贡献的（即51.4%中的25%），到2018年，该比例显著下降；中国的占比则从2000年的30.1%升至2018年的46.3%，东南亚、东亚和日本分别贡献了其中的38.5%、26.5%和23.1%；日本在亚洲第一产业出口增加值中的比重非常小，其在出口目的地中的份额相对较高。
In 2000, South-East Asia (including Fiji) had the highest share at 51.4 per cent, with Japan contributing nearly half (25 per cent of 51.4 per cent), with China increasing its share from 30.1 per cent in 2000 to 46.3 per cent in 2018; South-East Asia, East Asia and Japan contributed 38.5 per cent, 26.5 per cent and 23.1 per cent respectively.
（参考图10）图10：亚洲出口增加值的来源与目的地（第一产业）数据来源：ADB，东方证券低技术工业品。
Figure 10: Sources and destinations of Asian export value added (primary sector) Data: ADB, Low Technology Industrial Products of Eastern Securities.
2000年，低技术工业品出口增加值份额的分配比较均匀，中国最高，为27.8%，仅高于日本0.4个百分点；日本为最重要的进口国，在亚洲的贡献率为31.5%，而且，是中国增加值的主要贡献者。
In 2000, the share of value added in low-technology industrial exports was more evenly distributed, with China having the highest share of 27.8 per cent, just 0.4 percentage points higher than Japan; Japan was the most important importer, accounting for 31.5 per cent of Asia's contribution, and was a major contributor to China's value added.
到2018年，结构出现了较显著的变化，中国的份额提升至42.2%，东南亚升值24.8%，而日本和东亚都显著下降。
By 2018, the structure had changed considerably, with China's share increasing to 42.2 per cent and South-East Asia appreciating by 24.8 per cent, while Japan and East Asia experienced significant declines.
而且，东南亚也成为最重要的进口区域。
Moreover, South-East Asia has become the most important importing region.
（参考图11，低技术行业工业品分类见附表）图11：亚洲出口增加值的来源与目的地（第二产业低技术密集商品）数据来源：ADB，东方证券中/高技术工业品。
Figure 11: Sources and destinations of value added from Asian exports (lower technology-intensive goods in secondary industries) Data source: ADB, Oriental Securities Medium / High-tech Industrial Goods.
与低技术工业品相比较，在中/高技术工业品出口价值链网络中，结构有显著差异。
In comparison with low-technology industrial goods, there are significant structural differences in the value chain network for medium- and high-technology industrial exports.
第一，从2000年到2018年，日本的份额虽然显著下降，但占比仍为22.4%（2000年为45.3%），在亚洲名列第三，仅次于东亚和中国，但比中国仅低6个百分点；第二，中国的份额显著提升，之2018年，已升至28.8%，但是，其份额优势并没有低技术工业品那么显著（42.2%）。
First, while Japan's share declined significantly between 2000 and 2018, it remained at 22.4 per cent (from 45.3 per cent in 2000), ranked third in Asia after East Asia and China, but only 6 percentage points lower than China. Second, China's share increased significantly to 28.8 per cent in 2018, but its share advantage was not as significant as that of low-technology industrial goods (42.2 per cent).
中国高技术工业品的出口较为分散，东亚、日本和东南亚占比相当，占总份额的约80%；第三，东亚在亚洲高技术工业品的出口份额约三分之一，显著高于其在低技术工业品中的增加值占比。
China's exports of high-tech industrial goods are relatively diversified, with East Asia, Japan and South-East Asia accounting for about 80 per cent of the total; and third, East Asia's share of Asian exports of high-tech industrial goods is about one third, significantly higher than its share of value added in low-technology industrial goods.
（参考图12）图12：亚洲出口增加值的来源与目的地（第二产业中-高技术密集商品）商业服务业。
Figure 12: Sources and destinations of export value added in Asia (secondary - high technology-intensive goods) commercial services.
商业服务业的价值链网络的变化与第一和第二产业有诸多共同点。
The changes in the value chain network of commercial services have a lot in common with the primary and secondary industries.
日本所占增加值份额显著下降，中国的份额显著提升。
Japan's share of value added declined significantly, and China's share increased significantly.
到2018年，中国所占份额增至33.8%，其次是东南亚，占比为21.3%。
By 2018, China's share had increased to 33.8 per cent, followed by South-East Asia with 21.3 per cent.
（参考图13）图13：亚洲出口增加值的来源与目的地（商业服务部门）说明：商业服务部门:汽车及电单车的销售、保养及修理;汽车及电单车除外的零售贸易;家居维修;酒店和餐厅;内陆运输;水路运输;航空运输;其他辅助运输活动;旅行社活动;邮电通信;金融中介;房地产活动;机器设备租赁;以及其他商业活动。
Figure 13: Sources and destinations of export value added in Asia (reference figure 13): Commercial services sectors: sales, maintenance and repair of motor vehicles and motorcycles; retail trade excluding motor vehicles and motorcycles; home maintenance; hotels and restaurants; inland transport; waterways transport; air transport; other auxiliary transport activities; travel agency activities; post and telecommunications; financial intermediation; real estate activities; machinery and equipment leasing; and other business activities.
图9-13采用的是前向参与度指标，还可以用后向参与度做类似分析。
Figure 9-13 uses forward participation indicators and allows for a similar analysis with backward engagement.
基于对外经贸大学全球价值链数据库（UIBE GVC Index）的分析表明，中国整体行业后向参与度远高于前向参与度；中国整体行业参与GVC分工的位置居于下游；制造业GVC 参与度更深,而服务业GVC分工位置更高；高技术行业的GVC参与度和位置都高于中低技术行业,光电设备等高技术行业前向参与度有所提高。
An analysis based on the UIBE GVC Index shows that China's overall industry is far more participatory; its overall industry is downstream in the GVC division of labor; manufacturing GVC participation is deeper, and services GVC division of labor is higher; high-tech industries have higher GVC participation and location than low- and medium-tech industries, and higher-tech industries such as optoelectronic devices.
（赵玉焕等，2019）在不同行业、不同技术密集度产品价值链网络中的不同角色，对就业乃至整个国民经济都有不同的含义，比如：后向参与度的提高会对就业产生负面影响；一次跨境的简单GVC对就业的正向拉动作用最大；相对于服务业与中低技术行业,制造业与高技术行业位置的提高将促进就业；服务业前向GVC复杂生产长度以及整体与细分行业的简单GVC都与就业正相关。
(Zhao Yuhwan et al., 2019) The different roles in the value chain network of different industries and technology-intensive products have different implications for employment and the national economy as a whole. For example, increased backward participation has a negative impact on employment.
加入WTO以来，中国在全球价值链中的地位显著提升，已成为亚洲价值链网络的中心。
Since its accession to the WTO, China's position in global value chains has risen significantly and has become the centre of the Asian value chain network.
继2008年金融危机、中美贸易冲突之后，新型冠状肺炎疫情将继续对全球价值链形成负向冲击，中国、美国与德国作为三个核心国，其受冲击的程度将更为显著。
Following the 2008 financial crisis and the Sino-US trade conflict, the new coronary pneumonia epidemic will continue to have a negative impact on global value chains, with China, the United States and Germany being the three core countries that will be hit even more severely.
摩根士丹利对此其作了压力测试，认为如果3月下旬之前生产链全部复工，全球产业链受到的冲击还可控，而如果持续到第2季度，那么冲击可能会超出市场预期。
Morgan Stanley put pressure on the system, saying that if production chains returned to work by late March, the impact on global industrial chains would be manageable and could exceed market expectations if it continued into the second quarter.
从微观的证据来看，疫情在意大利的扩散已经导致一家汽车配件厂商（MTA）被隔离，这将影响到欧洲的汽车产业链，而且也将影响到中国。
From the microscopic point of view, the spread of the epidemic in Italy has already led to the isolation of an auto parts manufacturer (MTA), which will affect Europe's automobile industry chain and China as well.
所以，就国内而言，当务之急自然是尽快控制住疫情，与此同时有序复工复产。
So, at home, the most urgent task is to bring the epidemic under control as soon as possible, while resuming work in an orderly manner.
但海外的风险是中国无法控制的，政策当局能做的是避免疫情扩散出现“回马枪”——由海外回流中国，故应该加强对对机场的卫生检查，对于重点国家游客，应采取与国内同样级别的防控措施。
But the risks abroad are beyond China's control, and what policy authorities can do is avoid a "return-to-arms" epidemic - a return to China from overseas, so health inspections of airports should be strengthened, and for tourists from key countries, the same level of control as in the country should be adopted.
考虑到海外疫情扩散对中国的负向溢出效应，在防控疫情方面，中国也需加强同国外和世卫组织的合作，提供必要的协助，如提供检测试剂等。
Considering the negative spillover effects of overseas epidemics on China, China also needs to strengthen its cooperation with foreign countries and WHO in the prevention and control of the epidemic by providing necessary assistance, such as the provision of testing reagents.
附表：表1：第二产业按技术层次的分类资料来源：ADB，东方证券邵宇为东方证券首席经济学家；陈达飞为东方证券宏观分析师；李志骞为东方证券博士后；编辑：苏琦。
Table 1: Secondary Industry by Technical Level Source: ADB, Oriental Securities Shao Yu, Chief Economist of Oriental Securities; Chen Da-fei, Macroanalyst of Oriental Securities; Qian Li, post-doctoral candidate in Oriental Securities; Editor: Su Qi.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click Here for more information about the epidemic:: Archives & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and may not be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
全球价值链压力凸显，中美德供需承压最重。
The pressure of global value chain is obvious.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "全球价值链压力凸显，中美德供需承压最重";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "新型冠状肺炎疫情将继续对全球价值链形成负向冲击，中国、美国与德国作为三个核心国，其受冲击的程度将更为显著。
var msg _ desc = & quot; the new coronary pneumonia epidemic will continue to have a negative impact on global value chains, with China, the United States, and Germany being the three core countries that will be hit harder.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
