专访浙大教授王立铭：应对疫情需要科学把关。
Interview with Professor Wang Liming of Zhejiang University: Scientific check is needed to deal with epidemic situation.
马国川。
Ma Guochuan.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
要高度重视科学教育和科学思维的培养。
We should attach great importance to the cultivation of science education and scientific thinking.
面对复杂世界的未知难题，碰到一个像新冠肺炎这样的新问题，我们得学会首先从科学的角度想，它是怎么一回事，然后怎样按照科学规律去应对和预测新冠病毒模型。
Faced with the unknown problems of a complex world, and with a new problem like pneumonia, we have to learn to think scientifically about what it is, and how to deal with and predict the new crown virus model scientifically.
图片来源/美国CDC文 |《财经》记者 马国川 编辑 |苏琦在这次新冠疫情当中，浙江大学生命科学研究院的教授王立铭对疫情的系列深度科普、对疫情防治中某些行为和言论的直率批评，得到广泛支持，被知识界称为“一位令人尊敬的特殊知识分子”。
Photo source: CDC / CDC & # 144; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
“特殊知识分子”是法国思想家福柯提出的概念，意指能够在某一专业领域洞晓知识与权力之间秘密的人，这样的人是专家，更是知识分子，但不是凭借常识或普遍的正义与良知，而是凭借自己的特殊知识。
"Special Intellectuals" is a concept put forward by the French thinker Foucault, meaning a person who can know the secrets between knowledge and power in a certain field of specialization. He is an expert and an intellectual, but not by common sense or universal justice and conscience, but by virtue of his own special knowledge.
在接受《财经》记者电话专访时，这位八零后学者畅谈为什么阴谋论流行、科学家在疫情中的表现、如何应对谣言等话题，知识涉及面较广。
In a telephone interview with Caijing, the post-zero scholar talked about why conspiracy theories prevail, how scientists behave in the epidemic, and how to deal with rumors.
他还是一位活跃的科普作家，其著作《吃货的生物学修养》曾获得国家图书馆文津图书奖。
He is also an active popular science writer, whose book The Cultivation of Food Biology was awarded the National Library's Wenjin Book Award.
（王立铭）在王立铭看来，“抗疫过程中，高效率的集中资源和力量攻坚克难，当然是件大好事，也实实在在的展现了强大能力。
(Wang Liming) In Wang's view, "the efficient pooling of resources and efforts to combat the plague is certainly a good thing, but also a real demonstration of a strong ability.
但是在抗疫前期、需要定位和明确疫情的性质时、在战疫过程中、在战疫进入后半段、需要重新明确和调整目标的时候，是不是真正尊重了科学规律，是值得改善的。
But in the pre-epidemic period, the need to locate and define the nature of the epidemic, in the course of the epidemic, in the second half of the epidemic, when there is a need to redefine and reorient the objectives, is it true respect for the laws of science and is worth improving.
”“我们现在需要分析新冠肺炎的特性、它和其它流行病之间的异同，然后用科学分析和科学证据，预测它的未来走向，”王立铭说，“进而动态地调整未来的防控措施。
"We now need to analyze the characteristics of new crown pneumonia, its similarities and differences with other epidemics, and then use scientific analysis and scientific evidence to predict its future course," Wang said.
”在王立铭看来，“中国社会太缺乏科学思维和用科学做判断的能力”。
In Wang's view, "Chinese society is too short on scientific thinking and the ability to judge by science."
他呼吁加强科学教育，“如果这个问题解决不了，我们未来会遇到更多的麻烦。
He called for more science education. "If we don't solve this problem, we'll have more trouble in the future.
”有人为什么相信阴谋论？《财经》：对于这次疫情的源头，科学界是否有共识？尽管有科学家在《柳叶刀》杂志发声明谴责人造病毒的“阴谋论”，为什么还是有人倾向于“阴谋论”？王立铭：首先，从目前公布的研究结果看，基本上能够肯定新型冠状病毒的最初源头是中国云南地区生活的一种蝙蝠。
Why do some people believe in conspiracy theoryCaijing: Is there a scientific consensus on the origin of the outbreak Despite a statement by scientists in The Lancet condemning the conspiracy theory.Wang Liming: First, based on the results published so far, it is generally certain that the first source of the new coronavirus was a bat living in Yunnan Province of China.
科学家们曾经在这种蝙蝠体内找到过和人新型冠状病毒的基因序列高度相似（96%）的冠状病毒；同时考虑历史经验，另外两种曾经侵犯人类世界的冠状病毒（SARS和MERS冠状病毒）的天然宿主也都是蝙蝠。
Scientists have found a highly similar (96%) coronavirus to the gene sequence of the new coronavirus in the bat, and two other natural hosts of the coronavirus (SARS and MERS coronavirus), which have invaded the human world, are bats.
但是我们也基本可以判断，因为两者之间的基因序列差异和宿主特性，蝙蝠体内的病毒是不会直接感染人体的。
But we can also basically judge, because the gene sequence and host characteristics between the two, the bat virus is not directly infected with the human body.
那么蝙蝠体内的病毒是怎么演化和传播的，它的中间宿主到底是什么，又是在什么时间地点进入人类世界，本次疫情又是如何引发，目前还没有确切结论。
So how the virus in bats evolves and spreads, what its intermediate host is, when and where it entered the human world, and how the outbreak was triggered, is not yet known with certainty.
至于阴谋论，我确实听到有一种解释是说，公众由于对某些政府机构和专家不信任，因此在讨论疫情来源时，很容易陷入“塔西佗陷阱”，进而倒向阴谋论。
As for conspiracy theories, I do hear an explanation that the public, because of distrust of certain government agencies and experts, can easily fall into the Tacitus Trap and turn to conspiracy theories when discussing the source of the epidemic.
但我不太同意这个分析，从科学的角度看，阴谋论有一个可能更普遍的解释。
But I don't agree with this analysis. From a scientific point of view, conspiracy theory has a potentially more general explanation.
《财经》：怎么理解？王立铭：人的思维习惯里有给事情寻找一个解释的天然倾向。
Caijing: How do you understand it? Wang Liming: There is a natural tendency in people's thinking habits to find an explanation for things.
这个大概是自然选择的结果，我们的祖先要从变化多端的自然界里寻找出确定的因果关系，才能根据这些确定性去安排自己的生活，并且产生稳定的预期，这是生存演化的本能。
This is probably the result of natural selection, and it is the instinct of survival that our ancestors must seek certain causal relationships in a changing nature in order to organize their lives in the light of these certainties and to generate stable expectations.
问题在于，进入现代社会以后，信息爆炸、科学技术成为世界发展的主要驱动力，我们会发现，我们遭遇到的大量事情，要么是无法找到轻易因果关系的，要么找到的因果关系是大多数人无法理的艰深科学解释。
The problem is that after entering the modern society, information explosion, science and technology have become the main driving force of the world's development.We will find that a large number of things we encounter are either unable to find a causal link or find a cause-and-effect explanation that most people cannot.
《财经》：确实，科学有时是反常识的，比如说量子力学。
Caijing: Indeed, science is sometimes counter-intuitive, like quantum mechanics.
王立铭：没错，其实类似新冠肺炎这样的全新传染病也是同一个道理。
Wang Liming: Yes, in fact, a new infectious disease like the New Crown Pneumonia is the same thing.
由于短时间内找不到解释、或不能理解科学提供的解释，很多人就会倒向能提供某种心理慰藉的解释，于是就产生了阴谋论。
Unexplained for a short time, or unable to understand the explanations provided by science, many turn to explanations that provide some sort of psychological comfort, and conspiracy theories arise.
比如说，在这次疫情中，人们面对一个全新的疾病和全新的病原体，我们不知道它是哪来的、怎么传播的，也不知道它会怎么消失。
In this outbreak, for example, people face a whole new disease and a whole new pathogen. We don't know where it came from, how it spread, or how it disappeared.
因为仍然处于研究早期阶段，科学也给不出充分和完整解释，只能给出充满不确定性的回答，甚至有些问题可能永远都搞不清楚。
Because it is still at an early stage of research, science cannot give a full and complete explanation, only answers full of uncertainty, and even some questions may never be clear.
这时候人们基于寻找因果关系和确定性的本能，就会容易倒向某种只需要常识能够理解的解释方式。
The instinct to look for causality and certainty makes it easy to fall back on an interpretation that requires only common sense.
比如说，病毒是人造的，不管是中国人造的还是美国人造的——这种解释科学上不值一驳，但是它却切中了人们需要为一个复杂的未知事件寻找确定解释的需求，因此会大行其道。
For example, viruses are man-made, whether they are made in China or the United States - an explanation that is scientifically unanswerable, but it goes hand in hand with the need to find a definitive explanation for a complex, uncharted event.
《财经》：这就简单化了，对大众来说这才是一个能理解的事情。
Caijing: This is a simplification, and that's an understandable thing for the public.
王立铭：“人造病毒”的阴谋论就使得人们有一个确定性的预期：第一这样我就“知道”病毒是怎么来的，第二我就“知道”可以怪罪谁，第三我就“知道”事情应该怎么应对。
Wang Liming: The conspiracy theory of "man-made viruses" leads to a certain expectation: first, I "know" how the virus came about, second, I "know" who to blame, and third, I "know" what to do with it.
因为一个未知的自然现象归结为人为现象，那就可以靠我们熟悉的政治或法律等方式处理了。
Because an unknown natural phenomenon boils down to man-made phenomena, it can be dealt with by familiar political or legal means.
作为一个科学家，我觉得阴谋论的流行，可能会成为人类世界的一个常态。
As a scientist, I think the prevalence of conspiracy theories may become a normal part of the human world.
现代世界越来越复杂，科学技术也变得越来越高门槛和反常识，已经不足以为普通人在复杂的现代世界里生活提供一个确定性的支点了。
As the modern world has become more complex, and science and technology have become more and more threshold and counter-common sense, it is no longer enough to provide a definitive fulcrum for ordinary people to live in a complex modern world.
《财经》：你从科学家的角度来分析“阴谋论”，特别有启发。
Caijing: Your analysis of conspiracy theories from a scientist's point of view is particularly instructive.
其实寻找因果关系，不仅仅是普通人的爱好，许多在杂乱无序的历史中总结出所谓社会发展规律的社会科学家也是如此。
In fact, the search for causality is not just a hobby of ordinary people, but also of many social scientists who have summed up the so-called laws of social development in a chaotic history.
王立铭：作为一个典型的复杂系统，我们生活的世界充满了各种各样难以解释的随机性和不确定性，这才是我们必须面对的真实世界。
Wang Liming: As a typical complex system, we live in a world of unexplained randomness and uncertainty, which is the real world we have to face.
但是我们的大脑其实更习惯接受一个确定性的世界，甚至会因此而接受各种明显错误的解释。
But our brains are actually more used to accepting a deterministic world, and may even be open to obvious misinterpretations.
基于这样的原因，阴谋论很难被彻底消除。
For these reasons, conspiracy theories are hard to dispel.
但是我们仍然可以通过更好的科学教育，及时的事件科普，更透明的信息传递，减少阴谋论传播的力度和影响。
But we can still reduce the power and influence of conspiracy theories through better science education, timely incident popularization, more transparent information transmission.
《财经》：这是不是也和人类的自信增强有很大关系？人们觉得所有的事物都能够被人类掌握，都能给出解释来。
Caijing: Does this have anything to do with increased self-confidence? People think that everything can be grasped and explained.
但是进入后现代社会以后我们发现，世界其实充满了暂时无解的事物。
But after entering the post-modern society, we find that the world is full of temporary unsolved things.
王立铭：我同意。
Wang Liming: I agree.
启蒙时代以来，人类总觉得所有事物都能在人类已知的框架里得到解释。
Since the Age of Enlightenment, man has felt that all things can be explained within the known framework of man.
这当然是人类智慧的胜利，但是其实从某种程度上说，也是人类的一种傲慢。
This is certainly a triumph of human intelligence, but in a way it is also a form of human arrogance.
所以我在微博上写阴谋论科普的时候，引用了大刘的一句话，“弱小和无知不是生存的障碍，傲慢才是”。
So when I wrote about science on Weibo, I quoted Liu as saying, "Weakness and ignorance are not obstacles to survival; arrogance is the only thing."
这句话对于后现代社会可能特别重要，我们必须认识到，我们解释世界的手段实际上是有很多局限的。
This may be particularly important in a post-modern society, and we must recognize that our means of explaining the world are in fact very limited.
我们需要用科学去逐步的克服这些局限，但是首先，我们得承认局限的存在。
We need to use science to gradually overcome these limitations, but first, we have to acknowledge the existence of limitations.
《财经》：有人说，有些中国人似乎更热衷于“阴谋论”，这和我们的国民缺乏素养有关系吗？王立铭：“阴谋论”是一个典型的世界性问题。
Caijing: Some people say that some Chinese people seem to be more keen on conspiracy theories, which has something to do with the lack of literacy in our country.Wang Liming: "conspiracy theory" is a typical world problem.
源头不在于哪个制度，而在于普通人面对复杂世界的迷惑。
The source lies not in any system, but in the bewilderment of ordinary people in a complex world.
我在美国读书工作的时候也发现，其实普通美国人也喜欢阴谋论，比如“犹太人利益集团在左右美国”，等等。
When I was studying and working in the United States, I found that the average American liked conspiracy theories, such as "Jewish interests in the United States," and so on.
原因是同样的——普通人无法应对现代社会的复杂性和不确定性。
The reason is the same - ordinary people cannot cope with the complexities and uncertainties of modern society.
这和哪国人没什么关系。
It has nothing to do with any country.
一些失误可以理解，但不能接受《财经》：疫情发现初期，专家和官员判断疫情“可防可控”、“没有人传人”等明显失误，这是在合理范围吗？王立铭：我的个人的看法是，这种失误，可以理解，但是不能接受。
Some mistakes are understandable, but not acceptable Caijing: In the early days of the epidemic, experts and officials judged the epidemic to be "preventable and controllable" and "no-one-to-human"? Wang Liming: My personal view is that such mistakes are understandable but unacceptable.
为什么可以理解呢？简单来说就是科学结论需要严谨、需要证据，需要时间。
Why? Simply put, scientific conclusions require rigour, proof, and time.
以“没有人传人”为例，其实根据目前我们看到的数据，早在19年12月底-20年1月初的时候，武汉地区就已经出现了家族聚集性的感染，以及多位医护人员的集中感染，这当然都是非常值得警惕的人传人迹象。
From what we have seen so far, from the end of December to the beginning of January 20, there were family-related infections in Wuhan as early as the end of December to the beginning of January.
可是我们也得承认，科学研究和科学结论需要非常严谨，对这些病例，仍然需要进行扎实的流行病学调查，搞清楚他们之间是不是真的出现了人际传播、还是他们恰好都从另外一个感染源那里染病，这都是需要时间来完成的。
But we also have to admit that scientific research and findings need to be rigorous, and that in these cases, it takes time to conduct a solid epidemiological investigation to determine whether there is really interpersonal transmission between them or whether they happen to be infected with another source of infection.
那为什么不能接受呢？为了做到尽量准确，科学上我们当然可以继续做研究，收集更多的数据。
Why not? To be as accurate as possible, we can certainly continue our scientific research and collect more data.
但是在这之前、在虽然不能完全确定、但是几乎已经能够确认“人传人”的情况下，我们当然就应该提早采取措施，比如说限制和取消大型公众活动、要求医护人员做好防护、号召市民戴口罩和减少出行等等。
But before that, in cases where "human-to-human transmission" is almost certain, we should, of course, take early steps, such as restricting and cancelling major public events, requiring health-care workers to take precautions, calling on the public to wear masks, and reducing travel.
严谨的科学研究和积极的公共管理措施并不是同一回事、也并不矛盾。
Rigorous scientific research is not the same thing as active public administration, nor is it contradictory.
2019年12月底至2020年1月初这段时间已经发现明显的人传人现象，却没有在公共管理上采取任何积极措施，这当然是相关部门做得不到位的地方。
The period between the end of December 2019 and the beginning of January 2020 has been marked by a marked human-to-human transfer without any positive measures in public administration, which is certainly not possible for the relevant authorities to do.
当然，上面的讨论主要基于我对媒体公开报道和论文数据的分析，我个人了解的情况有限，可能并没有掌握全部的信息。
Of course, the above discussion is mainly based on my analysis of open media reports and paper data, which I personally know to a limited extent and may not have full information.
《财经》：科学界定和公共卫生预防的标准其实是不一样的，也不能互相为借口。
Caijing: The standards of scientific definition and prevention of public health are different and cannot be used as excuses.
王立铭：是的。
Wang Liming: Yes.
我觉得这里涉及到一个更广泛的问题，就是公共管理和专家意见如何互动和协调。
I think there is a broader issue at stake here, which is how public management and expert advice interact and coordinate.
对于负责公共管理的政府机构来说，他们没有传染病研究的经验，因此当然需要倚重专家的意见作为决策依据。
For government agencies responsible for public administration, they do not have experience in infectious disease research and therefore of course rely on expert advice as a basis for decision-making.
但是在这次疫情的早期我们看到的是，专家们在提供专业判断的时候，出于科学上的严谨也好，出于习惯上的过度保守也好，给出了诸如“未见明确的人传人证据”这样的判断。
But what we saw in the early stages of the epidemic was that experts, both scientifically rigorous and customarily conservative, gave judgments such as "no clear evidence of human-to-human transmission."
我们说过，从纯科学研究的角度，这个说法可能是有道理的。
As we have said, from a purely scientific point of view, this argument may be valid.
但是如果把这种判断直接代入到公共管理的场景里，它就很可能会被官员们理解成既然还没有证据，那就是不会人传人，因此也就不需要立刻采取措施。
But if this judgment is taken directly into the context of public administration, it is likely to be understood by officials that, since there is no evidence, there is no human-to-human transmission, so that immediate action is not required.
举一个具体的例子，从中国疾控中心2020年1月29日发表的论文中，我们可以清晰地看到，在2019年12月底到2020年1月初这段时间里，相关研究人员就应该能从家族聚集性病例、多位医护人员的感染当中，判断新冠肺炎大概率能够人际传播。
As a concrete example, from a paper published on January 29, 2020 by China's CDC, it is clear that researchers should be able to judge the likelihood of human-to-human transmission of new crown pneumonia from familial aggregation of cases and multiple infections among health-care workers between the end of December 2019 and the beginning of January 2020.
实际上甚至更早一点，在科学家们分离出新型冠状病毒的时候，就应该能够根据历史经验做出它大概率可以人际传播的推测了，因为至今发现的所有人体冠状病毒，包括SARS和MERS病毒，都是可以人际传播的。
Indeed, even earlier, when scientists isolated the new coronavirus, they should have been able to speculate, based on historical experience, that it could spread from person to person, because all the coronavirus found to date, including SARS and MERS, can be transmitted from person to person.
但是我们看到的现实是，一直到1月20日，才由钟南山院士向公众说出来。
But what we see is that it was not until January 20 that the academician Zhong Nan Shan spoke to the public.
在我看来，正是专家意见和公共管理决策之间的错位，在疫情出现的早期导致了严重的延误。
In my view, it is the mismatch between expert opinion and public management decisions that led to serious delays in the early stages of the epidemic.
这中间到底是哪些环节出了问题值得我们深入挖掘。
What is wrong with this is worth digging deep into.
而可能更关键的是，在未来，我们要如何协调公共管理和专家意见之间的互动，避免类似问题的出现。
And, perhaps more critically, in the future, how do we reconcile the interaction between public management and expert advice to avoid similar problems.
《财经》：从制度设计角度看，中国疾控中心是否存在缺陷？王立铭：从目前公开的信息呈现的内容来看，我们至少在传染病监测的制度建设上肯定存在问题。
Caijing: Is there any defect in China CDC from the point of view of system design? Wang Liming: Judging from the content of the information available, we certainly have a problem with the establishment of an infectious disease surveillance system.
以疾控中心早在2004年建立的传染病直报系统为例，它已经建立十几年，并且一直在持续运转（就在前一段的北方鼠疫问题上还工作的不错），但在这次新冠疫情中完全失灵了。
Consider the Communicable Disease Direct Reporting System, established by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in 2004, which has been in existence for more than a decade and continues to function well (just as it did with the northern plague), has failed completely in this new crown.
有人对此提出解释说，这个直报系统不能应对新发传染病，新发疾病需要人员培训云云。
In response, it was explained that the direct reporting system could not respond to emerging infectious diseases, which required the training of personnel.
这种理由站不住脚。
That argument is untenable.
因为这个疾病直报系统的设计初衷，就是为了防止我们重蹈SARS覆辙、能够对未知传染病做到提早预警。
Because the disease alert system was designed to prevent us from repeating the SARS epidemic and providing early warning of unknown infectious diseases.
如果只要是新的传染病就失灵，那这个系统的价值当然就会大打折扣。
If new infectious diseases fail, the value of the system will of course be greatly diminished.
这里可能还有一个更深层次的问题需要解决，那就是国家疾控系统的定位和赋权问题。
There may be a deeper problem that needs to be addressed: the positioning and empowerment of national disease control systems.
由于历史沿革和制度设计的原因，中国疾控中心虽然说名义上是中国传染病预防控制的最高机构，负责传染病研究、监控、提供专业指导和政策建议，但是实际上，中国疾控中心只是一个以基础研究为底色的行政事业单位。
Because of its history and institutional design, the CDC, while nominally the highest authority for infectious disease prevention and control in China, is responsible for infectious disease research, surveillance, professional guidance and policy advice, but in practice, the CDC is only an administrative institution with a basic research background.
也就是说，相比于它承担的使命（或者至少是人们期待中的使命），中国疾控中心拥有的行政权力和资源严重不匹配。
That is, China's CDC has far less administrative power and resources than it has been given (or at least expected).
把传染病防控这么一件对于公众健康、公共安全至关重要的工作，交给这样一个并没有多少权力和资源、以研究为底色的事业单位，这是需要改进的。
The control of infectious diseases, a task of vital importance to public health and public safety, needs to be improved by giving such a research-based institution little power and resources.
一个思路也许是进一步强化疾控中心的地位和权力，以更好地应对未来可能会成为人类世界新常态的各种传染病暴发的现象。
One idea might be to further strengthen the CDC's position and authority to better respond to future outbreaks of infectious diseases that could become the new normal for the human world.
比如说，中国疾控中心是不是可以成为一个国务院直属的部门，专门负责传染病防控？是不是可以实行对地方疾控的垂直管理？是不是可以剥离一部分和传染病防控关系不大的基础研究部门？这都是值得讨论的问题。
For example, is it possible for the CDC to become a department under the State Council dedicated to infectious disease prevention and control? Is vertical management of local disease control possible? Is it possible to divest a part of the basic research department that has little to do with infectious disease prevention and control?
当然这也不是说，因为疾控系统目前的制度设计，所以所有人就都可以不承担责任了。
This is not to say, of course, that because of the current institutional design of the disease control system, everyone is immune from liability.
这个我认为也同样是不合适的。
This, too, I think, is not appropriate.
毕竟说到底，完善制度建设——比如确保直报系统的正常工作——这本身就是中国疾控中心的职责所在。
After all, perfecting the system - for example, by ensuring that the direct reporting system works - is itself the job of China's CDC.
《财经》：即使制度设计还不完善，也不是可以免责的理由。
Caijing: Even if the design of the system is not perfect, it is not the reason for exemption.
王立铭：是的。
Wang Liming: Yes.
新冠疫情发展到现在，数万人得病，数千人死亡，可能还伴随着数万亿人民币的经济损失。
Tens of thousands of people have been sickened and thousands have died, possibly with trillions of yuan in economic losses.
但我们没有看到任何一个相关责任方出来说是我的责任，或者至少我有责任，并且向老百姓道歉。
But we have not seen any of the responsible parties come forward and say that it is my responsibility, or at least I am responsible, and apologize to the people.
好像似乎默认谁都没有责任。
It seems as if no one is to blame.
战疫期间，我们需要提振士气，需要“正能量”，不能只看到负面，这都是对的。
During the epidemic, we need to boost morale. We need "positive energy," not just negative ones, and that's right.
但是也不可以忘记责任归属，和制度改进。
But attribution and institutional improvement must not be forgotten.
具体来说，我觉得它一方面是传染病相关的管理系统需要改进的标志——一个实实在在的出了问题、但是每个人都可以完美免责的系统当然是需要改进的。
Specifically, I think it's a sign that infectious disease management systems need to be improved - a system that actually goes wrong, but everyone can be perfectly immune.
另外，它也说明这个系统里的很多人，对自己职责的认知出了问题。
In addition, it also shows that many people in the system have problems with how they perceive their responsibilities.
湖北和武汉的地方官员也好，卫生和疾控部门的很多官员也好，难道他们忘记了，不管制度细节和岗位职责如何规定，自己的工作首先就是保护当地老百姓的健康和安全么？厘清不同专家的责任《财经》：有人说，中国科学家在应对这次疫情中的表现不如人意，你是否同意这种观点？王立铭：我不太同意这种情绪化的泛泛的指控。
Do local officials in Hubei and Wuhan, and many officials in the health and disease control departments, forget that their job is to protect the health and safety of the local people first and foremost, regardless of the system details and job responsibilities.
如果真要讨论责任的话，我觉得可以把科学家分成两类，不同科学家有不同的责任。
If there is any discussion of responsibility, I think scientists can be divided into two categories. Different scientists have different responsibilities.
第一类是那些纯粹从事研究工作的专家。
The first category is that of experts who work exclusively in research.
在这次疫情中，他们在非常短的时间内找到了疾病的病原体，测出了病毒的基因组序列，开发了相应的核酸检测试剂盒，并且还在积极的从事新药和新疫苗的研发工作。
In this case, they have found the pathogen of the disease in a very short time, detected the genome sequence of the virus, developed corresponding nucleic acid test kits and are actively engaged in the development of new drugs and vaccines.
作为同行我对他们充满了敬意，我觉得他们在这次疫情当中的表现是非常优秀的。
I respect them as colleagues, and I think they have done very well in this epidemic.
当然，我觉得科学家们的工作也有可以继续完善的地方，特别是在研究数据和研究材料共享这个方面。
Of course, I think there is still room for improvement in the work of scientists, especially in the area of research data and sharing of research materials.
我们知道，科学家发表论文介绍自己的研究成果是惯例，但是在疫情之下，科学家们通过bioRxiv这样的开放平台尽快发布研究成果，然后再向传统的学术期刊投稿，接受同行评审，也许是更合适的做法，能够大大加快学术成果的交流和分享。
We know that it is customary for scientists to publish papers presenting their findings, but in the face of the epidemic, it may be more appropriate for scientists to publish the results as soon as possible through open platforms such as bioRxiv and then contribute to traditional academic journals for peer review, which could greatly expedite the exchange and sharing of academic results.
还有，和疫情相关的研究肯定需要大量患者的相关生物学样本（组织样本，病毒基因组序列，患者具体信息等），这些信息和材料的共享应该也有可以提高改善的地方，它们不应该成为某些机构或者某些科学家的”私有财产“。
Moreover, disease-related research will certainly require a large number of patient-related biological samples (tissue samples, viral genome sequences, patient-specific information, etc.), and the sharing of such information and materials should and should not become the "private property" of certain institutions or scientists.
说到底，科学研究是为了抗击疫情、为了全人类的事业，而不是为了某位科学家的个人成就和利益。
Ultimately, scientific research is about fighting the epidemic, about the cause of all humanity, not about the individual achievements and interests of a scientist.
《财经》：有一种舆论认为，有些专家为了发论文而耽误了正事。
Caijing: There is a kind of opinion that some experts delay the business in order to issue papers.
王立铭：最近确实有很多人把矛盾指向科学家，认为很多科学家为了发论文而耽误了防疫的正事。
Wang Liming: There have been a lot of people who have been pointing the finger at the scientists lately, who think that many scientists have delayed the epidemic in order to hand out their papers.
我觉得这么说不公平。
I don't think that's fair.
专业人士的天职就是研究和探索问题，而发表论文是他们的工作常规之一。
It is the vocation of professionals to research and explore problems, and publishing papers is one of their work routines.
他们本身没有向公众宣传的义务，也没有指导疫情如何防控的职责，所以不要拿疫情防控中出现的问题，来苛责这些纯粹做研究的科学家。
They themselves have no obligation to inform the public, nor do they have a role to play in how the epidemic is controlled, so don't blame these purely research scientists for problems that arise in disease prevention and control.
以中科院武汉病毒所的石正丽研究员为例，她的本职工作就是做病毒的基础研究，在这次疫情中她的实验室鉴定了新型冠状病毒，并且分析了病毒入侵人体细胞的具体机制。
Take Shi Zhengli, a researcher at the Wuhan Institute of Virus of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, whose job is to do basic research on the virus.
这些研究非常快速和出色，而且也在第一时间分享在bioRxiv这样的开放平台上供大家参考。
These studies were quick and excellent, and were first shared on open platforms like bioRxiv.
正是因为这样一批中国科学家的工作，我们才很快搞清楚了疾病的来龙去脉。
It was thanks to the work of such a group of Chinese scientists that we were soon able to understand the origin of the disease.
《财经》：这些科学家的言论受到公众的质疑时，应该如何面对和回应？王立铭：这其实也不能过分苛责他们。
Caijing: How should these scientists face and respond when their opinions are questioned by the public? Wang: This should not be too harsh on them either.
他们本身没有受过公众沟通的训练，也没有和媒体打交道的丰富经验。
They themselves are not trained in public communication and have no extensive experience in dealing with the media.
直接面对公众不是他们的专长，也不是他们的义务，甚至我觉得他们需要被保护起来免受打扰。
Facing the public directly is not their area of expertise, nor is it their duty, and I even feel they need to be protected from intrusion.
《财经》：那么，第二类专家是些什么人的？王立铭：他们是那些身处领导岗位、承担制度建设和政府咨询职能，也需要直接面向公众答疑解惑，提供指导的科学家。
Caijing: So, who are the second group of experts? Wang Liming: They are scientists in leadership positions, institution-building and government advisory functions, and who need to answer questions and provide guidance directly to the public.
他们的角色和责任显然和第一类专门从事研究的科学家并不一样。
Their roles and responsibilities are clearly not the same as those of the first group of dedicated research scientists.
我觉得可以说，这些专家当中，很多人明显没有尽职。
I think it is fair to say that many of these experts are manifestly failing in their duty.
一方面是这次疫情早期的延误本身就有系统失灵的问题。
On the one hand, the early delays in the epidemic were themselves systemic failures.
我们说过，疾控中心的直报系统干脆失去了功能，这本身当然就是相关制度建设的问题，那么负责制度建设的这些专家是不是没有做好自己的工作？我很期待在接下来我们能够有效的反思和改善这方面的制度。
As we have said, the CDC's direct reporting system simply failed to function, which is certainly a question of institution-building, so are the experts in charge of system building not doing their job well? I am looking forward to reflecting on and improving the system in the future.
另一方面，在直接面对公众答疑解惑、提供指导的时候，很多专家也没有很好的履行自己的职责。
On the other hand, many experts do not perform their duties well when facing public questions and providing guidance.
在公众舆论中，诸如 “没有确实证据证明人传人的风险”“儿童对于新型冠状病毒不易感”等言论，是有很强的误导性的。
In public opinion, statements such as "There is no conclusive evidence of the risk of human-to-human transmission" and "Children are not susceptible to the new coronavirus" are highly misleading.
还有，有些专家在并没有明确证据的时候就在公开媒体上宣称自己做出了重大突破，发现某些药物对新冠肺炎有用，这同样会让公众产生错误的预期。
Moreover, experts who claim in the public media, without clear evidence, that they have made a major breakthrough, and that certain drugs are useful for pneumonia in the new crown, are equally misleading to the public.
对于这些承担对外输出信息、指导公众行为的专家，其实要求是很高的。
For these experts who bear the burden of exporting information and guiding public behavior, the requirements are very high.
我想，一方面这些专家需要谨言慎行，另一方面，我们也需要严格遴选标准，不能盲目崇拜官员或者院士。
I think, on the one hand, these experts need to be careful, on the other hand, we also need strict selection criteria, not blindly worship officials or academicians.
我想，我们完全可以找那些真正掌握疫情的一线专家来发声啊。
I think we can really look to the front-line experts who really know the epidemic to make their voices heard.
比如这次疫情中上海复旦大学附属医院的张文宏医生，他的发声效果远好于很多头衔更高的专家和领导。
For example, Dr. Zhang Wenhong of Fudan University Hospital in Shanghai was much more vocal than many highly-titled experts and leaders in the outbreak.
《财经》：人选特别重要，有些人的公信力受到质疑、甚至失去了公信力。
Caijing: The candidate is particularly important, and some people's credibility has been questioned or even lost.
比如华中农大的某位院士在新闻发布会上闹乌龙。
One of the academicians at Central China Agricultural University, for example, made a scene at a press conference.
王立铭：实际上更重要的问题是：为什么一定要把这位院士挑出来面对公众？他并不是研究这次新型冠状病毒的一线科学家啊！如果单纯因为他是院士，他是领导，为了增加权威性，专门找他来发声，这种思路就错了。
Wang: Actually, the more important question is: Why was the academician singled out to the public? He was not the front-line scientist studying this new coronavirus.
事后来看，他显然并不具备这方面的专业知识，也缺少和公众直接沟通的经验。
In hindsight, it is clear that he does not have the expertise and experience to communicate directly with the public.
在公共卫生事件发生后，引导公众的正确认知和行为习惯是一件非常重要的大事。
In the wake of public health events, it is very important to guide the public's correct cognition and behavior.
这件事的价值可能不亚于疾病的治疗本身。
It could be as valuable as the treatment of the disease itself.
而且这件事一定要相关的专家来做，别人无法替代科学家的职责。
And this matter must be done by the relevant experts, no one can replace the responsibility of scientists.
《财经》：这样专家的遴选标准是什么？王立铭：第一，应该是对相关问题很熟悉的一线工作者；第二，应该有比较丰富的应对公众舆论的经验。
Caijing: What are the selection criteria for such experts? Wang: First, he should be a front-line worker familiar with relevant issues; secondly, he should have rich experience in dealing with public opinion.
既要讲的准确，公众又能接受，还要能把公众的情绪调整到比较合理的范围内；第三，专家来源应该多样化，代表不同专业、不同工作、不同年龄、不同地域，甚至代表不同的价值观等，多元化可以保证信息更加全面而平衡。
Third, experts should be diverse and represent different professions, different jobs, different ages, different geographical regions and even different values. Diversity can guarantee more comprehensive and balanced information.
这次疫情中大家都很信服钟南山院士的发言，这当然是一件好事。
It was certainly a good thing that everyone in the epidemic was convinced of the statement made by the academician Zhong Nan Shan.
但像钟南山这样人品学识兼具的专家，大概率可遇不可求。
But such a person as Zhong Nan Shan character and knowledge of experts, high probability can not be found.
与其把希望寄托在找到这样一个专家身上，还不如提供不同专业背景的一群专家，保障大众听到相对平衡的、全面的信息。
Rather than placing their hopes in finding such an expert, it would be better to provide a group of experts with different professional backgrounds to ensure that the public heard relatively balanced and comprehensive information.
刚才我也说到，这次疫情中张文宏医生的表现就非常杰出。
As I said just now, Dr. Zhang Wenhong has been outstanding in this epidemic.
处理新发传染病一定要尊重科学《财经》：在公共卫生危机发生后，，如何处理公共管理与科学规律的关系？王立铭：我只是一个科学家，不是一个公共卫生管理领域的专业人士。
Addressing Emerging Infectious Diseases Must Respect Science Caijing: How to deal with the relationship between public management and the laws of science in the wake of a public health crisis? Wang Liming: I'm just a scientist, not a professional in public health management.
从我的角度建议，在应对公共卫生危机的时候，比如处理新发传染病问题的时候，一定要遵循科学规律，不能仅仅考虑公共管理本身的运行逻辑。
From my point of view, when dealing with public health crises, such as emerging infectious diseases, it is important to follow the laws of science and not just consider the logic of public administration itself.
从单纯公共管理的角度说，维护社会稳定，保证社会基本秩序，确实都很重要，但是突发的传染病有自身发展的规律，不受人们主观意愿控制。
From the point of view of pure public management, it is indeed important to maintain social stability and ensure a basic social order.
公权力能规范人们的行为，却无法约束病毒。
Public power can regulate people's behavior, but not the virus.
《财经》：导致这次疫情蔓延的一个原因，可能就是没有充分尊重科学。
Caijing: One reason the epidemic is spreading may be a lack of full respect for science.
王立铭：管控公共卫生危机，首先要尊重科学，尊重专家，不能取代专家的专业指导。
Mr. Wang: Managing public health crises begins with respect for science, respect for experts and not for their professional guidance.
《财经》：公共卫生事件发生后信息庞杂，如何辨别真伪，如何处理“谣言”？如何才能避免民众不反应过度？王立铭：在数字时代，信息鱼龙混杂是无法避免的现象，需要考虑的是怎么应对和与之相处。
Caijing: How to distinguish between truth and falsehood, how to deal with "rumors" and how to prevent people from overreacting? Wang Liming: In the digital age, information is an inevitable phenomenon and what needs to be considered is how to deal with it and get along with it.
从传播的角度来说，当不实信息出现后再去应对，无论如何都晚了。
From a communications point of view, it is too late to respond to untrue information when it appears.
如果发生冲突，反而会增加人们对不实信息的关注。
If there is a conflict, it will only increase the focus on disinformation.
最好的应对方法是让真相比谣言跑得快。
The best way to cope is to make the truth run faster than the rumor.
不是忙着辟谣，而是建立更好的平台，让那些掌握专业知识、又掌握传递信息技巧的一线工作人员在这里密集发声。
Instead of trying to deny rumors, there is a better platform for front-line workers with expertise and communication skills to make their voices heard.
理性的声音多了，人们自然就不会去关注那些听起来就像谣言的信息。
With more rational voices, people naturally don't pay attention to information that sounds like rumor.
《财经》：有社会学家建议，在突发公共卫生事件中，应当组织庞大的专家团队像播天气预报一样，二十四小时和公众保持信息沟通。
Caijing: Some sociologists suggest that in a public health emergency, a huge team of experts should be organized to communicate with the public 24 hours a day, just as they do with weather forecasts.
王立铭：信息场就是这样，理性的信息越多，谣言的空间越小。
Wang Liming: This is the information field, the more rational the information, the less space for rumors.
包括媒体报道，一定要用科学规律来把关。
Including media reports, we must use the scientific law to check.
《财经》：怎么评价媒体在这次公共卫生事件中的作用？王立铭：一些传统媒体在这次疫情当中表现很优秀，在严峻的形势下还能够深入一线挖掘出大量第一手信息，让我们更好地理解疫情发展的不同侧面。
Caijing: How do you evaluate the role of the media in this public health issue? Wang Liming: Some traditional media have performed very well in this epidemic and have been able to unearth a great deal of first-hand information under severe circumstances so as to better understand the different aspects of the epidemic.
这可能是近年来严肃媒体很难得的一次集中展示。
It may be a rare show for serious media in recent years.
如果说不足，第一是严肃媒体的数量太少，向老百姓传播的声音还是有点小。
If anything, the first is that the number of serious media is too small, the voice of the people is still a bit small.
第二，媒体在专业性上仍然有需要提高的地方，报道专业问题应该有调查验证，至少咨询第三方意见，这应该是媒体的行为准则。
Second, the media still need to improve their professionalism, professional reporting should be verified by investigation, at least consulting with third parties, this should be a code of conduct for the media.
《财经》：在科学问题上媒体怎么样才能做到客观和理性？王立铭：比如说吧，最近一些媒体以标题党的形式爆出所谓“重大进展”，比如双黄连、克立芝（洛匹那韦利托那韦片）、阿比朵尔等药物在还没有充分验证和数据支持的时候就被宣传成特效药，大量疫苗研发的工作都还在极早期，连动物试验都还没有做，就已经被吹成了“疫苗快来了”，等等。
Caijing: How can the media be objective and rational when it comes to science? Wang Liming: For example, some media outlets have recently made so-called "major advances" in the form of headlines, such as Shuanghuanglian, Clichy (Lopinavellitonaways), Abidol, etc., which are still in their early stages and have been blown up as "vaccines are coming," even before animal trials.
这些消息激发了公众不切实际的幻想，好像战胜新冠肺炎可以指日可待。
The news sparked unrealistic public fantasies that a victory over pneumonia might be within reach.
一个专业媒体的基本素养要求他在报道不太懂的新闻时，需要有事实核查，需要有第三方意见。
The basic quality of a professional media requires fact checking and third-party opinion when reporting news that is not well understood.
可是在这次疫情报道关于药物和疫苗的报道中，大部分只引用某专家的说法，动辄宣称“突破”。
But most of the reports on drugs and vaccines in the current epidemic report cite only one expert's claim of a "breakthrough."
这是非常不专业的。
This is very unprofessional.
这一方面是专家自身的职业操守问题，另一方面也是媒体的问题。
This is a matter of professional ethics for the experts themselves, on the one hand, and the media, on the other.
我的看法是，不管是什么媒体，都应该明白一件事：在讨论疫情这么一个自然现象时，一定要用科学来把关。
In my opinion, whatever the media, one thing should be clear: when discussing an epidemic as a natural phenomenon, science must be used to check it.
《财经》：由于用药问题，这次疫情再次引发了中西药之争。
Caijing: Because of the drug use problem, this outbreak has caused the dispute between Chinese and Western medicine again.
作为一个科普作家，你怎么看这场争论？王立铭：我一直不同意中西医之分，而是更愿意讨论经验医学和证据医学（或循证医学）的区别。
What do you think of this argument as a popular science writer? Wang Liming: I have always disagreed with the distinction between Chinese and Western medicine, preferring instead to discuss the difference between empirical and evidential medicine (or evidence-based medicine).
所有医学，不论中西，诞生之初都是经验医学，医生们根据自身的经验和感受来治疗病患。
All medicine, both Chinese and Western, begins with experiential medicine, and doctors treat patients on the basis of their own experience and feelings.
但现代医学发展到今天，已经完全纳入到循证的逻辑体系中，依靠数据而不是经验，特别是所谓的大样本随机对照试验，来判断任何一种治疗方法是否安全有效。
But modern medicine is now fully integrated into an evidence-based logical system, relying on data rather than experience, especially so-called large-scale randomized controlled trials, to determine whether any treatment is safe and effective.
中国的传统医学是经验医学的一部分，我相信里面一定有大量的宝藏值得挖掘——青蒿素就是一个很好的例子。
Traditional Chinese medicine is part of experiential medicine, and I believe there must be plenty of treasure in it - artemisinin is a good example.
但是要做到挖掘宝藏，中医一定也需要纳入到循证医学的系统里去，才可以真正具有生命力。
But in order to excavate the treasure, TCM must also be integrated into the evidence-based medicine system so as to have real vitality.
具体是做严格的临床试验，还是有别的方法统计真实应用中的数据，这些策略可以讨论。
Whether to do rigorous clinical trials, or to have other methods of counting data in real applications, these strategies can be discussed.
但是这个大方向是必不可少的。
But this broad direction is essential.
事实上，有一些中药已经在主动接受数据化、证据化的审查。
In fact, some Chinese medicines are already under active, data-based, evidential review.
《财经》：有一些中医拒绝纳入循证医学系统，排斥数据化和证据化。
Caijing: Some Chinese medicine practitioners refuse to include evidence-based medicine, excluding data and evidence.
王立铭：说话得讲证据，这是现代社会的基本规则。
Wang Liming: Speaking with evidence is the basic rule of modern society.
如果没有办法用数据和证据来描述，那不就是玄学么？我觉得，凡是拒绝数据化和证据化的医学都是过时的，不论中西，都没有生命力。
Is it metaphysics if there is no way to describe it in terms of data and evidence? I think medicine that rejects data and evidence is anachronistic.
我相信，咱们老祖宗几千年来用亲身体验筛选出来的东西，肯定有不少是真正值得挖掘利用的，但前提是它接受用数据化的方式来审视。
I believe that many of the things that our ancestors have sifted through with their own experience over thousands of years are truly worth digging for, but only if they are examined in a statistically significant way.
如果主动放弃数据化，甚至认为数据化是对它的侮辱，那么就真的有被淘汰掉的危险了。
There is a real danger of being eliminated if you actively abandon datafication and even think that it is insulting.
集中力量办大事是难得的制度优势《财经》：现在应对疫情使用的是总动员方式，还有更优的应对方案吗？王立铭：发现问题所在，然后动员全国力量来高效率的解决，“集中力量办大事”当然是一个巨大的制度优势。
Concentrating on big issues is a rare institutional advantage Caijing: Is the general mobilization now used to deal with the epidemic, and is there a better plan to deal with it? Wang Liming: Finding the problem and then mobilizing the nation to solve it efficiently is certainly a huge institutional advantage.
但是，怎么用好这种优势，是特别值得思考的问题。
However, how to make good use of this advantage is particularly worth thinking about.
第一，在问题刚开始浮现的时候一定要搞清楚，需要解决的问题到底是什么？这件事就需要严格地遵循科学规律。
First, it is important to be clear at the beginning of a problem, what exactly is it that needs to be addressed? It requires strict adherence to the laws of science.
从这次疫情来看，最初找准问题——也就是确认疾病的性质和危险程度——耽误了太多不必要的时间。
In the light of the epidemic, the initial problem of targeting - that is, identifying the nature and extent of the disease - delayed too much unnecessary time.
早期预警、预防、管控措施都有值得反思的地方。
Early warning, prevention and control measures are all worthy of reflection.
我们能够集中力量办大事是一种难得的制度优势，但我们千万不能把一个问题拖成大事才去解决。
It is a rare institutional advantage for us to be able to focus on major issues, but we must not drag one issue into the background.
第二，确定方向开始动员力量解决之后，我们仍然需要根据解决过程中的情况变化，继续科学分析，动态调整目标，保证最终应对的是一个真实的、能够解决的问题。
Secondly, once the orientation begins to mobilize, we still need to continue our scientific analysis and dynamic targeting in the light of changing circumstances in the settlement process, so as to ensure that a real and solvable problem is eventually addressed.
比如说，这次疫情我们需要管控到什么程度才能放开？考虑到新型冠状病毒传播性很强，隐匿性也很强，传播途径很多，而大多数患者的症状又很轻微，这样一来，我们是不是能够真正像对抗SARS一样彻底消灭它？或者我们是不是必须接受它像季节性流感一样长期和我们共存的局面？这些科学问题的分析和预测，会极大地影响我们的管控目标和相应的管控措施。
Given that the new coronavirus is highly contagious and insidious, with many routes of transmission, and most patients have mild symptoms, can we really eliminate it as completely as we do with SARS? Or must we accept that it will coexist with us like seasonal flu for a long time?
《财经》：从2003年的公共卫生危机看，最终消灭SARS疫情的措施被证明是成功的。
Caijing: In the light of the public health crisis of 2003, measures to eventually eliminate the SARS epidemic proved to be successful.
王立铭：当然，那是一次巨大而且难得的胜利。
Wang Liming: Of course, it was a huge and rare victory.
但是应对SARS疫情的经验对于今天应对新冠肺炎疫情是否成立？这时候仍然需要动员科学的力量，让流行病学家、临床医生去做研究，去分析预测，然后告诉我们。
But whether or not the SARS experience holds true for today's response to the SARS epidemic still requires mobilizing the power of science, getting epidemiologists and clinicians to do research, analyze predictions, and then tell us.
我们这一次能不能做到？如何能做到？如果做不到应该怎么转换防控目标？这都是需要动用科学的地方。
Can we do that this time? How can we do that? If we can't, how can we transform control goals? This is where science comes in.
比如说，相比SARS，新冠肺炎有几个不太一样的特点：患者的基数更大、疾病传播的隐匿性更强，特别是潜伏期也有传播性，还有相当比例的无症状感染者。
New crown pneumonia, for example, has several different characteristics compared to SARS: a larger base of patients, greater invisibility of disease transmission, especially incubation periods, and a significant proportion of asymptomatic infections.
这些特点当然会增加防控的难度。
These characteristics will certainly make prevention and control more difficult.
针对这些客观事实，我们如何调整防控的手段和防控的目标，都是需要严肃的科学分析的。
In view of these objective facts, how we adjust the means of prevention and control and the goal of prevention and control, all need serious scientific analysis.
《财经》：在对抗疫情的具体措施方面，还有哪些可以改进之处？王立铭：我们现在进入到对抗疫情的攻坚阶段，治疗方案本身的设计当然是非常重要的一环。
Caijing: What can be done about specific measures to combat the epidemic? Wang Liming: We are now entering the critical phase of fighting the epidemic, and the design of the treatment itself is certainly an important part of it.
但是我们也看到，卫健委提出的新冠肺炎诊疗方案当中，什么药物进入诊疗指南，好像很多时候也没有遵循科学规律。
But we also see that many times the new crown pneumonia diagnosis and treatment plan proposed by the Wei Jianghuang, what drugs into the diagnosis and treatment guidelines, also do not seem to follow the rule of science.
有不少药物，比如克立芝和阿比朵尔等等，在没有明确临床证据的时候就已经进入了方案供一线医护人员使用，这本质上是和现代医学的循证逻辑相矛盾的。
A number of drugs, such as Clichy and Abidol, have been introduced for use by front-line health-care providers without clear clinical evidence, in essence contradicting the evidence-based logic of modern medicine.
另外，我们也看到针对新冠疫情，有大量的临床试验正在开展（有统计说超过了200项），也有大量的机构宣称正在开发疫苗。
In addition, we are seeing a large number of clinical trials under way (more than 200 statistically) and a large number of institutions claiming to be developing vaccines in response to the new crown outbreak.
这些本身当然都是好事也是需要的。
These, of course, are both desirable and desirable in themselves.
但是我们仍然可以从科学角度出发提出问题：这么多临床试验开展，都需要一定规模的受试者，如何协调，如何防止彼此争抢患者资源？实际上这样的事情已经在发生了，比如某些被广泛寄予厚望、WHO也公开支持的在研药物（瑞德西韦等）就很难找到受试者，临床试验的进展远不如预期。
But the scientific question remains: how to coordinate and how to prevent competition for patient resources, when so many clinical trials are conducted, is already happening, for example, in research drugs (Rhetsevius et al.), which are widely expected and publicly supported by WHO, and clinical trials are far less advanced than expected.
疫苗也有同样的问题，等这些机构开发的疫苗进入人体试验环节时，如何保证彼此不会“挤兑”受试者资源，保证最有潜力的的疫苗能够及时快速测试，也是一道我们需要用科学求解的难题。
The same is true of vaccines, which, when they enter human trials, guarantee that they will not "run" each other's resources, and that the most promising vaccines can be tested quickly and in a timely manner, a problem that we need to solve scientifically.
而且疫苗需要的受试者数量还要远大于药物。
And the vaccine requires far more subjects than drugs.
我再强调一下，药物和疫苗开发过程仍然可能可以借助集中力量办大事的方式，但是集中资源之后如何有效的利用，这本身是个科学问题。
I would like to stress again that the drug and vaccine development process may still be possible by focusing on major events, but how resources are pooled and used effectively is itself a scientific issue.
还有，在对抗疫情当中公共管理的作用是非常重要的，但是公共管理目标的设计仍然需要遵循科学规律。
Also, the role of public management in fighting the epidemic is very important, but the design of public management objectives still needs to follow the scientific law.
例如，2月初的时候，武汉市曾要求几天内排查所有患者，实际上计算一下基层工作人员的数量和武汉时的人口规模，这是根本不可能在那么短时间内完成的目标。
At the beginning of February, for example, Wuhan city asked to screen all patients within a few days, actually counting the number of staff at the grassroots level and the size of the population in Wuhan, a goal that could not have been accomplished in such a short time.
还有，当初模仿小汤山模式，火速修建火神山医院、雷神山医院，这当然是国家能力的卓越体现，但恐怕也没有咨询过一线专家的意见。
Moreover, the model of Xiaotangshan, the rapid construction of the fire god mountain hospital, Lei Shenshan hospital, of course, this is an outstanding manifestation of national capacity, but I am afraid the views of front-line experts have not been consulted.
当时已经有不少基于流行病的数学模型估算武汉地区至少有数万名患者，两个新医院的床位设计是远远不够的。
There were already many epidemiological-based mathematical models estimating at least tens of thousands of patients in Wuhan, and the bed design for the two new hospitals was far from adequate.
现在看的话，武汉地区仅重症患者就超过了1万人。
At present, Wuhan area alone more than 10,000 patients with serious illness.
我再强调一次，抗疫过程中集中资源和力量攻坚克难当然是大好事。
Let me stress once again that it is certainly a good thing to pool our resources and strength in the fight against the disease.
但是在最初明确问题时，在战疫过程中、在调整和明确最终目标的时候，我们一定要尊重科学规律。
But in the initial identification of the problem, in the course of the epidemic, in adjusting and in clarifying the ultimate goal, we must respect the laws of science.
新冠肺炎疫情的可能走向《财经》：从你的研究看，疫情未来可能会如何发展？对于下一步抗疫的措施你有什么建议？王立铭：我不是做流行病学研究的，不适合在这里给出具体的预测和分析。
Possible future course of Crowne Pneumonia: From your research, how is the epidemic likely to develop in the future? What advice do you have for the next step in the fight against the epidemic? Wang Liming: I'm not an epidemiologist and I'm not in a position to make specific predictions and analyses here.
但是仅从逻辑上看，疫情无非有三个可能走向：一是“SARS模式”，快速管控，彻底消灭；二是“大流感模式”，全球蔓延；三是“季节性流感“模式，规模可控，但长期和人类共存。
Logically, however, the epidemic is likely to move in three directions: a "SARS model," with rapid control and total elimination; a "pandemic influenza model," with a global spread; and a "seasonal flu" model, one that is manageable in scale but coexists with humans for a long time.
我想在疫情发展的这个阶段，我们特别需要的就是流行病学的专家们来帮助分析新冠肺炎的特性、和其它一些流行病之间的异同，然后科学判断它的未来走向，进而调整未来的防控措施。
I think that at this stage of the epidemic, what we need is epidemiologists to help analyze the similarities and differences between the characteristics of new crown pneumonia and other epidemics, and then to determine scientifically its future course and adjust future control measures.
《财经》：如果新型冠状病毒的传播变成长期性现象，怎么办？王立铭：如果当真如此，那时候我们的防控策略当然就需要转型，在某个时间节点切换管控思维，更多向流感控制的经验学习。
Caijing: What if the spread of the new coronavirus becomes a permanent phenomenon? Wang Liming: If so, then of course our control strategy will need to be transformed at some point in time to switch management thinking and learn more from the experience of influenza control.
比如说，要在保证公众生活工作节奏的前提下取消一些大型公众活动；要唤醒公众的个人健康意识比如勤洗手、打喷嚏掩盖口鼻；要在主要城市储备医疗资源为可能的局部爆发做准备；要投入资源建设更多的传染病科室和医院；要全力投入疫苗的开发生产，等等。
For example, cancel major public events without compromising the pace of work in public life; awaken the public to personal health awareness, such as washing hands frequently, sneezing and covering the mouth and nose; store medical resources in major cities to prepare for possible localized outbreaks; invest resources in building more infectious disease units and hospitals; and invest heavily in vaccine development and production.
同样，这些防控措施也需要遵循科学规律。
Likewise, these control measures need to follow scientific rules.
面对传染病这样的自然现象，我们唯一能做的就是尊重自然规律，在尊重自然规律的基础上去更好的应对它。
Facing such a natural phenomenon as infectious disease, the only thing we can do is to respect the law of nature and deal with it better on the basis of respect for the law of nature.
《财经》：作为科学家和科普作家，这次疫情给你最大的感触是什么？王立铭：我感触最大的，就是我们似乎缺乏一种用科学的思维方式来理解世界和处理难题的能力。
Caijing: As a scientist and popular science writer, what is your biggest feeling about this epidemic? Wang Liming: What strikes me most is that we seem to lack a scientific way of thinking about the world and dealing with difficult problems.
我们更习惯于把问题诉诸情绪，诉诸道德，甚至诉诸阴谋论，恰恰忽略了把问题诉诸科学。
We tend to resort to emotion, morality, and even conspiracy theories, to the neglect of science.
世界上大多数的现实问题，在情绪、道德、阴谋之外，还有科学规律在指导它们的运转，这在疫情中体现的特别明显。
Most of the world's real problems, beyond emotions, morality and intrigue, are governed by scientific laws, which are particularly evident in the epidemic.
《财经》：这次公共卫生危机引起知识界的普遍思考。
Caijing: This public health crisis caused widespread intellectual thinking.
你最关注的是什么？王立铭：一定要高度重视科学教育和科学思维的培养。
What do you care about most? Wang Liming: We must attach great importance to science education and the cultivation of scientific thinking.
面对复杂世界的未知难题，碰到一个像新冠肺炎这样的新问题，我们得学会首先从科学的角度想，它是怎么一回事，我们知道多少，不知道多少，将来怎么去搞清楚这些未知的东西，然后怎样按照科学规律去应对和预测。
Faced with the unknown problems of a complex world, and confronted with a new problem like pneumonia, we must first learn to think scientifically about what it is, how much we know, how much we don't know, how to understand the unknown in the future, and how to deal with it and predict it scientifically.
我们更需要把科学思维内化成本能，变成常规思维的一部分。
Rather, we need to internalize the cost of scientific thinking and make it part of conventional thinking.
这件事当然很难。
This is of course difficult.
科学思维本质上是一个反直觉、反人性的东西，需要长期的训练才能做到轻车熟路。
Scientific thinking is essentially a counter-intuitive, anti-human thing that requires long-term training to become familiar.
这需要从小进行长期细致的训练。
This requires long and careful training from an early age.
这样我们才能做到，但是如果科学教育和科学思维的问题解决不了，我们未来会遇到更多的麻烦。
That is what we can do, but if the problems of science education and scientific thinking are not solved, we will have more troubles in the future.
现代社会的标志，其实就是有越来越多的问题，我们已经无法用本能去解决了。
The hallmark of modern society is, in fact, that there are more and more problems that we can no longer solve by instinct.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click Here for more information about the epidemic:: Archives & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and may not be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
专访浙大教授王立铭：应对疫情需要科学把关。
Interview with Professor Wang Liming of Zhejiang University: Scientific check is needed to deal with epidemic situation.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "专访浙大教授王立铭：应对疫情需要科学把关";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "要高度重视科学教育和科学思维的培养。
var msg _ desc = & quot; attaches great importance to science education and the development of scientific thinking.
面对复杂世界的未知难题，碰到一个像新冠肺炎这样的新问题，我们得学会首先从科学的角度想，它是怎么一回事，然后怎样按照科学规律去应对和预测";。
Faced with the unknowns of a complex world, and confronted with a new problem like pneumonia, we must first learn to think scientifically about what it's like, and then how to answer and predict & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
