金融版“生死时速”：3000亿抗疫救命钱如何花在刀刃上？。
Financial version of "life and death": 300 billion anti-epidemic money spent on the blade?
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 财经五月花。
The following article comes in May.
Author 财经五月花。
May Flowers of Finance.
财经五月花。
May Flowers of Finance.
这是《财经》杂志“资本与金融”领域的垂直公号，聚焦前瞻、深度的金融制度与市场报道。
This is Caijing magazine "Capital and Finance" field of vertical public, focusing on the forward-looking, in-depth financial system and market reporting.
。
.
已发放的专项再贷款实际利率1.28%，比国务院规定的不高于1.6%还要低。
The actual rate of interest paid on special reloans is 1.28 per cent, which is lower than the 1.6 per cent set by the State Council.
在超速发放过程中，市场关注这些钱是否精准落地？如何平衡速度与风险？3000亿额度是否供不应求？图/新华文 |《财经》记者 张颖馨 张威编辑 | 袁满48小时、30小时、24小时、16小时、5小时……一场不断刷新历史纪录的“信贷速递”在疫情的推动下正在上演。
In speeding, the market is concerned about whether the money landed accurately; how to balance speed with risk; whether the $300 billion is in short supply? & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; &
1月31日，人民银行下发《关于发放专项再贷款支持防控新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情有关事项的通知》（银发〔2020〕28号，下称“28号文”），设立3000亿元专项再贷款，支持金融机构向疫情防控重点保障企业提供优惠利率信贷支持。
On January 31, the People's Bank of China issued the Notice on the Issue of Special Refinancing to Support the Prevention and Control of Pneumonia Infected by New Coronavirus Infections (Silver Fat [2020] 28, hereinafter referred to as "Article 28").
按照重点企业名单，专项再贷款发放银行主动向企业送上“救急救命”钱。
According to the list of key enterprises, the special refinancing bank offered to send enterprises "emergency help" money.
《财经》记者注意到，从企业提出贷款申请到资金“落袋”，不少银行跑出了48小时内完成的“加速度”。
Caijing reporter noted that from the enterprise to the application for loans to the "drop bag" of funds, many banks ran out of 48 hours to complete the "acceleration."
更有甚者，跑出5小时内完成的“超速度”。
What's more, run out of five hours to complete the "super-speed."
一幕幕场景如同金融版“生死时速”。
The scenes are like the financial version of "life and death."
2月11日，媒体的一则消息点燃了舆论对于3000亿专项再贷款投向的关注。
On February 11, a media report sparked public concern about the $300 billion in refinancing.
也就是，谁可以拿到利率还不到往日一半的疫情救命钱？有媒体报道称，包括小米、美团等300家企业日前向北京地方银行申请“抗疫”专项贷款，总额至少达到574亿元人民币。
According to media reports, 300 companies, including millet and the US Mission, have applied to local banks in Beijing for special loans worth at least 57.4 billion yuan against the disease.
其中，小米申请50亿贷款，美团申请40亿。
Millet has applied for $5 billion in loans and the US Mission has applied for $4 billion.
小米、美团的入围，立即遭到多方质疑。
Millet, the United States Mission short-listed, immediately met with many doubts.
根据国务院常务会议，以及财政部等五部委下发的 《关于打赢疫情防控阻击战 强化疫情防控重点保障企业资金支持的紧急通知 》（财金〔2020〕5号 ，下称 “5号文”），每月专项再贷款发放利率为上月一年期贷款市场报价利率（LPR）减250基点，再贷款期限为1年。
According to the Standing Committee of the State Council and the Emergency Circular issued by the Ministry of Finance and other ministries, the monthly special refinancing interest rate is 250 basis points less 250 basis points and the refinancing period is one year.
同时，中央财政按企业实际获得贷款利率的50%进行贴息，以确保抗疫重点企业融资成本低于1.6%。
At the same time, the central financial authorities cut interest rates by 50 per cent of the interest rate actually earned by enterprises to ensure that financing costs for key enterprises are less than 1.6 per cent.
“在众多企业现金流吃紧的情况下，将如此优惠利率的贷款发放给现金储备尚且充足的互联网科技公司是否合适？”有民营企业高管提出质疑。
"Given the tight cash flow of many companies, is it appropriate to lend at such a cheap rate to internet technology companies with ample cash reserves?" some private-sector executives questioned.
此后，小米与美团点评均对上述消息进行否认，表示未获得网传的贷款，也未完成相关申请。
Since then, millet and the U. S. Mission comments on the above-mentioned denial, said that the Internet did not receive loans, nor completed the relevant applications.
与此同时，央行表示，如果小米、美团的确因为参与疫情防控而需要贷款，银行一定会给予贷款支持，而即使获批，贷款规模也会与网传的40亿、50亿相去甚远，也许会在一两亿左右。
At the same time, the central bank said that if millet and the U. S. group did need loans because they were involved in epidemic prevention and control, the banks would lend, and even if approved, the size of the loans would fall far short of the $4bn, $5bn spread online, and perhaps $120bn.
据《财经》记者从有关金融机构处了解到，小米集团、美团点评等企业确实在北京的重点企业名单内，目前已有银行批复了小米集团过亿元的专项再贷款申请，该笔资金主要是用于小米集团旗下一家子公司的防疫物资生产等。
According to Caijing reporter from the relevant financial institutions, millet group, the United States group comment on the list of enterprises in Beijing, has been approved by the bank millet group of 100 million yuan, the funds are mainly used for millet Group of a subsidiary of the production of epidemic prevention materials.
就此，《财经》记者向小米集团、美团点评了解具体情况，双方均表示以此前回复内容为准。
In this regard, "Caijing" reporters to millet group, the United States Mission to understand the specific situation, both sides said that the content of the previous response.
在“加速度”、“超速度”背后，市场更为关注：银行如何实现3000亿专项再贷款的精准落地？如何平衡速度与风险？3000亿专项再贷款是否会供不应求？对于经手每一单的银行人士来说，这是一场前所未有的考验。
Behind "acceleration" and "super-speed," markets are more concerned about how banks can achieve a precise landing of $300 billion in special-purpose refinancing, how to balance speed and risk, and whether there will be a shortage of $300 billion in refinancing? It is an unprecedented test for every banker who handles it.
名单几易其稿，实际利率1.28%现实中3000亿专项再贷款发放对象的名单究竟如何圈定？按照28号文，3000亿元专项再贷款先发放至农业发展银行、中国农业银行、中国银行等9家主要全国性银行，以及湖北、湖南、北京、上海等10个重点省市的部分地方法人银行（每个省不超过3家），再由相关银行依照主管部门确认的名单向重点企业提供。
According to Article 28, 300 billion yuan of special refinancing will be disbursed to 9 major national banks, including the Agricultural Development Bank, the Agricultural Bank of China and the Bank of China, as well as some local corporate banks in 10 key provinces, including Hubei, Hunan, Beijing and Shanghai (not more than 3 in each province).
重点企业实行严格的名单制管理，分为两类：一是全国性重点医用物资和重点生活物资的重点企业，由发改委、工信部确定，提供给人民银行；二是地方重点企业，由重点省（市）的省级政府确定，报发改委、工信部备案。
Key enterprises adopt a strict list management system, which is divided into two categories: the key enterprises with national key medical materials and key living materials, determined by the NDRC and the Ministry of Industry and Communications, and the key local enterprises, which shall be determined by the provincial governments of key provinces (cities) and submitted to the Development and Reform Commission and the Ministry of Industry and Communications for record.
5号文进一步明确了重点企业范围。
Article 5 further clarified the scope of key enterprises.
具体包括：生产应对疫情使用的医用防护服、隔离服等重要医用物资企业；生产上述物资所需的重要原辅材料生产企业、重要设备制造企业等；生产重要生活必需品的骨干企业；重要医用物资收储企业；为应对疫情提供相关信息通信设备和服务系统的企业以及承担上述物资运输、销售任务的企业。
These include: enterprises that produce medical protective clothing, quarantine clothing and other important medical materials used in response to the epidemic; enterprises that produce important raw materials and important equipment for the production of the above-mentioned materials; backbone enterprises that produce vital necessities of life; enterprises that provide relevant information and communications equipment and service systems to deal with the epidemic; and enterprises that undertake the transportation and marketing of the above-mentioned materials.
《财经》记者从某全国性大行内部人士处了解到，最初下发的全国性重点企业名单，主要围绕与防疫相关的医用物资企业、对应的生产企业等，仅有少数生活物资保障类企业。
According to Caijing's insides, the list of key enterprises initially issued nationwide mainly centers on medical materials enterprises and corresponding production enterprises related to epidemic prevention, and there are only a few enterprises concerned with the maintenance of living materials.
随着名单更新，纳入范围明显扩大，但总原则是不能超过5号文划定范围。
With the updating of the List, the scope of inclusion has been significantly expanded, but the general principle is that the scope of article 5 cannot be exceeded.
全国性名单所涉企业范围亦可从再贷款发放银行的数据中一窥端倪。
The range of companies on the national list can also be seen in the refinancing bank data.
据中国农业发展银行披露，截至目前，其共与 282 家全国性重点企业进行对接，审批146家重点企业疫情防控应急贷款近114.31亿元，发放合格贷款共54.78亿元。
According to the Agricultural Development Bank of China, it has so far docked 282 key enterprises nationwide, approved nearly 114.31 billion yuan in emergency loans for the prevention and control of epidemic diseases in 146 key enterprises, and disbursed a total of 5.478 billion yuan in eligible loans.
其中，涉及卫生防疫类企业46家，生活物资保障类企业73家。
Of these, 46 are health and epidemic prevention enterprises and 73 are material security enterprises.
相较于全国性名单，地方重点企业名单设定之初涉及范围便更广泛，但几易其稿，部分地区的名单甚至引发争议。
Compared to the national list, the list of local key enterprises was initially more extensive, but it was changed several times and the list of some areas was even controversial.
多名城商行人士告诉《财经》记者，目前省人行已下发第一批企业名单，并明确该名单内的企业能够享受专项再贷款支持，但也有部分地方尚未明确该名单内是否所有企业均能享受专项再贷款支持。
Several comptoirs told Caijing that the PBOC has issued its first list of companies and made it clear that the companies on the list can enjoy special refinancing support, but some have not yet made it clear whether all the companies on the list can enjoy special refinancing support.
《财经》记者了解到，截至发稿前，人民银行营业管理部（北京）下发的最新版重点企业名单涉及90余家企业，以防疫相关企业为主，亦有一定比例的民生保障类企业，包括卡尤迪生物科技(北京)有限公司、物美科技集团有限公司、北京华联集团投资控股有限公司等；人行长沙中支下发的省级重点防疫企业名单涉及60余家企业，全部为医药用品生产和销售类企业，如长沙黑猫日化有限公司、益丰大药房连锁股份有限公司等；人民银行上海总部于2月3日向总行报备了首批194家重点企业名单，最新下发的一批名单则涉及250余家企业，包括上药控股有限公司、上海康达医疗器械集团股份有限公司等。
The latest edition of the list of key enterprises issued by the People's Bank of China's Ministry of Business Administration (Beijing) involves more than 90 enterprises, mainly those concerned with epidemic prevention, while a certain proportion of the enterprises concerned include Kayudi Biotech (Beijing) Limited, Tongmei Technology Group Co., Ltd.
“第一批终版名单下发前，监管就企业范围征求了相关方的意见，中间经过好几次调整，比如删掉了一些IT、信息化建设等类型企业，新增了保障民生类。
"Before the first issue of the final list was issued, the regulator asked the relevant parties for their views on the scope of the enterprises, and after several adjustments, such as deleting some IT, informationization and other types of enterprises, added people's livelihood security.
”有城商行企业业务负责人透露，因为名单一直在调整，动态增减，有时会出现调整幅度略大的情况。
The head of business operations at the comptoir company revealed that the list had been adjusted, dynamic increases and decreases, sometimes slightly larger adjustments.
比如此前已按照了解到的名单情况对接企业发放专项再贷款，但最后却发现这家企业不在新版的名单内。
For example, the company was previously given a special reloan on the basis of the list, but it turned out that it was not included in the new version of the list.
这造成了已发放专项再贷款的企业可能不在最新公布的名单内。
This has resulted in enterprises that have issued earmarked reloans that may not be on the most recently published list.
上述城商行负责人告诉《财经》记者，在与相关监管部门进一步沟通后，后者会承认该笔专项再贷款的有效性，或者将企业重新加入名单，但还是希望这种“心跳加速”的时刻少一些。
The comptoir chief told Caijing that, after further communication with the relevant regulators, the latter would acknowledge the validity of the specific refinancing or rejoin the list, but hoped that there would be fewer "heartbeat" moments.
关于重点企业名单的最新情况，人民银行副行长刘国强日前在接受《金融时报》采访时透露，截至2月20日，发改委、工信部确定全国性重点企业876家，10个重点省市省级政府确定地方性重点企业共1082家。
As of February 20, the NDRC and the Ministry of Industry and Communications had identified 876 key enterprises nationwide, and 10 key provincial and municipal governments had identified 1,082 local key enterprises, Liu Guoqiang, vice-president of the People's Bank of China, told the Financial Times.
另据刘国强在2月27日召开的国新办新闻发布会上透露，截至2月25日，已经有1008家重点保供的企业获得了贷款。
According to Liu Guoqiang at the February 27 news conference held by the State Administration of China, as of February 25, 1,008 key enterprises have received loans.
财政贴息后，这些贷款的实际利率是1.28%，低于国务院规定的不高于1.6%的要求。
After the fiscal cuts, the real interest rate on these loans was 1.28 per cent, which is less than the State Council's requirement of 1.6 per cent.
超速放贷，大小行竞争加剧基于重点企业名单，贷款需要多久才能发放到位？央行提出了具体要求：“原则上1天，最长2天，要将贷款发放到位”。
Based on the list of key companies, how long will it take for loans to arrive? The central bank has specified requirements: "In principle, one day and up to two days, loans should be disbursed."
也就是说，银行要在控制风险的基础上，将专项再贷款资金尽快送到企业手中。
In other words, banks should control the risk on the basis of special refinancing funds as soon as possible into the hands of enterprises.
中国银行总行普惠金融事业部总经理朱军告诉《财经》记者，为此，中行大幅简化了客户准入所需流程和材料，甚至采用了蹲守企业、见缝插针、利用碎片时间等方式完成尽职调查。
Zhu Jun, general manager of Bank of China's inclusive finance division, told Caijing that the bank had significantly simplified the processes and materials needed to gain access to its customers, even by squatting, inserting stitches and using fragment time to complete due diligence.
上海银行公司业务部副总经理袁挺亦对专项再贷款发放带来的业务速度之变，感受颇深。
Yuan Ting, deputy general manager of Shanghai Banking Corporation, also felt deeply about the change of business speed brought by the special refinancing.
据了解，截至目前，上海银行已发放了13笔纯信用的专项再贷款。
It is understood that so far, the Shanghai Bank has issued 13 pure credit special refinancing.
袁挺告诉《财经》记者，按照银行的信贷逻辑，信贷审批是逐一通过不同层级完成，就像是串联。
Yuan Ting told Caijing that according to the bank's credit logic, credit approval is done through different levels, like series.
而现在，这些环节都是交叉、并联的。
Now, these links are overlapping and parallel.
“比如一些支行在项目调查过程中，可能审批人、评审人一起去做调查，这就与客户经理掌握的信息基本上保持同步。
"For example, some branches may conduct investigations with approvers and assessors during the course of a project, which basically keeps pace with the information held by the customer manager.
而客户经理在写完调查报告之后，马上就能进行贷审会，缩短的时间至少在1-2天。
After writing the survey report, the account manager will be able to hold a loan committee meeting in at least one to two days.
”袁挺强调，虽然时间缩短，但依然要确保专项再贷款资金用途，符合实际的防疫生产需要。
Yuan stressed that although the time is shorter, but still to ensure that special refinancing funds use, in line with the actual production needs of epidemic prevention.
这同样是市场关注的问题：如何在跑出“加速度”的同时，保证专项再贷款“好钢用在刀刃上”？刘国强指出，专项再贷款采取“先贷后借”的报销制，必须运用于重点企业防控疫情需要的生产经营活动，不得用于重点企业的一般性资金需求，资金封闭使用。
This is also a market concern: how to run out of "acceleration" while ensuring that special refinancing "good steel used on the blade"? Liu Guoqiang pointed out that the special refinancing system must be used in key enterprises to prevent and control epidemic needs of production and business activities, not for key enterprises general financial needs, closed use of funds.
与此同时，国务院已明确审计署后续将对资金的使用情况进行监督。
At the same time, the State Council has made it clear that the Audit Commission will follow up on the use of funds.
金融机构要做好贷后管理，配合审计部门做好专项再贷款的专项跟踪审计，防止资金“跑冒滴漏”。
Financial institutions should do a good job in post-loan management, with the audit departments to do a special follow-up audit of re-loans to prevent funds from "leakage."
某城商行人士向《财经》记者表示，该行授信管理部会根据授信政策以及企业经营情况，对名单内企业进行逐户摸排，建立白名单，下发分支行进行针对性营销推动；同时进行资金用途审核，并采取“受托支付”等方式确保资金用于疫情防控相关领域。
A comptoir source told Caijing that the bank's credit management department would conduct house-to-house mapping of listed enterprises, establish white lists, open branches for targeted marketing promotion, conduct fund use audits and take "fiduciary payments" to ensure funds are used in disease prevention and control-related areas.
贷后管理方面，则会按照《授信后尽职管理办法》，通过现场检查及非现场排查结合的方式，对企业生产经营、财务状况、非财务状况、担保方情况进行全方位的了解。
After-credit management, in accordance with the "Due Diligence Management Measures after Credit Grant," through the combination of on-site inspection and off-site inspection, enterprises' production and operation, financial situation, non-financial situation, and the situation of guarantors will be fully understood.
同时，逐户逐笔核实企业的资金用途，确保信贷资金真正流向医用物资和生产物资生产、运输、销售的防疫抗战一线。
Meanwhile, each household verifies the use of an enterprise's funds on a case-by-case basis to ensure that the credit flows truly to the frontline of the anti-epidemic war against epidemic prevention in the production, transportation and marketing of medical materials and production materials.
放贷流程提速过程中，有银行跑出了比监管预期更快的速度。
As the lending process picked up speed, some banks ran out of control faster than expected.
农业银行云浮分行信用管理部总经理黄国辉透露，目前农行发放最快的是针对温氏食品集团股份有限公司（下称“温氏集团”）的一笔10亿元专项再贷款，从申请、审批、备案，到完成投放，仅用了5个小时。
According to Huang Guohui, general manager of Agricultural Bank Yunfu Branch Credit Management Department, the bank's fastest-disbursing is a one-billion-dollar refinancing facility for Wenzhou Food Group Co., Ltd. (Wynn Group), which took only five hours from application, approval and filing to completion.
公开资料显示，温氏集团是全国规模最大的种猪育种和肉猪养殖企业。
The company is the nation's largest breeder and pig breeder, according to public sources.
受疫情影响，为做好猪肉和鸡肉等农产品扩产供应，温氏集团急需大量资金。
Influenced by the outbreak, Wynn is desperate for large sums of money to expand its supply of agricultural products such as pork and chicken.
“之所以能如此快落地，主要还是前期做了充分的事前调查准备。
"The main reason for landing so fast was the thorough preparation for the preliminary investigation.
”黄国辉告诉《财经》记者，该笔贷款为纯信用贷款。
Huang told Caijing the loan was pure credit.
为了保证资金确实用在扩大生产上，会要求借款人提供每笔贷款资金支付去向的划款凭证，并采取对温氏集团的账户流水进行查验等措施。
In order to ensure that funds are actually used to expand production, borrowers are required to provide proof of transfer of funds to pay for each loan and to take measures such as checking Wynn's account flow.
在这场专项再贷款的“超跑赛”中，全国性银行与地方法人银行之间的竞争，时隐时现。
Competition between national banks and local corporate banks looms large and small in this "race to the top" of special refinancing.
按照央行分配，3000亿专项再贷款中，全国性银行额度为2000亿元，地方法人银行为1000亿元。
According to the central bank's allocation, of the 300 billion yuan in special refinancing loans, 200 billion yuan are allocated to national banks and 100 billion yuan to local corporate banks.
全国性银行重点向全国性名单内的企业发放贷款，地方法人银行向本地区地方性名单内企业发放贷款。
National banks focus on lending to enterprises on the national list, and local corporate banks issue loans to enterprises on their local lists.
据某城商行企业金融业务部负责人透露，其所在地下发的省级重点企业名单中，有10家企业亦在全国性名单之中。
According to the head of the financial business department of a city comptoir, 10 of the key enterprises at the provincial level issued by the comptoir are also on the national list.
全国性和地方名单的重叠，导致银行间竞争加剧。
Overlap of national and local lists has led to increased competition among banks.
据《财经》记者了解，在实际业务对接中，出现了全国性银行向地方名单内企业提供专项再贷款服务的情况。
According to Caijing reporter, in the actual business docking, appeared the national bank to the local list of enterprises to provide special refinancing services.
这引发了部分城商行人士的忧虑。
This has raised concerns among some comptoirs.
某全国性大行高管则认为，“地方名单中的部分企业是我们的存量客户，在疫情影响下，如果客户有续贷等要求，肯定会优先考虑向其发放专项再贷款资金，总不能让客户‘跑了’；对于在地方名单中有相应需求的新增客户，我们按照‘绿色通道’下的授信政策，向其发放专项再贷款之外的优惠利率贷款资金。
"Some of the companies on the local list are our stock of customers," said one national bank executive. "Under the impact of the epidemic, customers will definitely be given priority in refinancing their loans, and will not be allowed to 'run'.
”该人士向《财经》记者坦言，相比地方性银行，部分地方企业更看中大行在资金、效率、资源等方面的优势，会出现首选通过大行申请贷款的情况，不可避免对地方性银行的考核指标实现带来压力。
The person told Caijing that some local companies valued the bank's advantages in terms of capital, efficiency and resources more than local banks, preferring to apply for loans through big banks, which inevitably put pressure on local banks to meet their assessment targets.
前所未有的考验：速度与风险的平衡“救急救命”钱正“加速”送到重点企业手中，这一看似通畅的动作，在考验着各家银行“内功”的同时，亦潜藏隐忧。
An unprecedented test: the balance between speed and risk. Money is "accelerating" into the hands of key companies, a seemingly smooth move that tests the "internal work" of banks, while at the same time lurking concerns.
在“应贷尽贷、应贷快贷”要求之下，现实中并非所有银行都能有充足的时间做好前期准备，尤其是面对一家从未接触过的企业。
In reality, not all banks have had enough time to prepare for it, especially in the face of a business that has never been contacted.
在收到地方性企业名单后，中关村银行创新生态合作二部总经理张陆关注到消杀用品生产销售企业——北京绿伞化学股份有限公司（下称“北京绿伞”），后者向中关村银行申请了一笔1000万元的防疫专项贷款。
After receiving the list of local enterprises, Zhang Lu, the general manager of Zhongguancun Bank's Innovation and Ecological Cooperation Department, paid attention to Beijing Green Parachute Chemical Co., Ltd. ("Beijing Green Umbrella"), which applied to Zhongguancun Bank for a 10 million yuan special vaccination loan.
是否该足额批复？“大部分情况下，我们会考虑结合企业的需求和经营情况，并通过流动资金情况去测算一个合理的授信额度。
"In most cases, we will take into account the needs and operations of the enterprise and calculate a reasonable credit line through liquidity position," he said.
但目前看来专项再贷款确实比较特殊，我们既要去测算企业的流动资金缺口，同时也要考虑在这种紧急状态下，企业生产扩大、销售激增等情况下的实际需求。
But at present, it seems that special refinancing is very special. We should not only measure the liquidity gap of enterprises, but also consider the real demand in the emergency situation, such as the expansion of production and sales.
”张陆告诉《财经》记者，考虑到当前的疫情影响及北京绿伞所具有的成长性，最终批复了这笔1000万元纯信用的专项再贷款资金，贷款利率为3.05%，按照财政50%贴息，企业的实际融资成本为1.525%。
Zhang told Caijing that given the impact of the current outbreak and the growth of Beijing's green umbrella, the 10 million yuan refinancing facility, with a net credit interest rate of 3.05 percent, was finally refunded at 1.525 percent at a 50 percent fiscal discount, Zhang told Caijing.
截至2020年2月26日，中关村银行已为北京绿伞、北京九州通医药有限公司、北京谊安医疗系统股份有限公司等7家企业发放专项再贷款资金3.79亿元。
As of February 26, 2020, Zhongguancun Bank has issued 379.0 million yuan in refinancing funds for seven enterprises, including Beijing Green Umbrella, Beijing Kyushu Tong Medical Co., Ltd. and Beijing Friendship Medical System Co. Ltd.
据《财经》记者了解，目前该行多以信用贷款或类信用贷款（如股权质押、应收账款质押等）的方式发放专项再贷款。
According to Caijing reporter, at present, the bank to credit loans or similar types of credit loans (such as equity pledge, accounts receivable pledge, etc.) by way of special refinancing.
值得注意的是，亦有部分地方银行在专项再贷款发放过程中，结合当地企业实际情况，采取了更为谨慎的信贷政策。
It is worth noting that some local banks have adopted more prudent credit policies in the process of issuing special reloans, taking into account the actual situation of local enterprises.
据长沙银行中小企业金融部相关负责人透露，截至2月19日，长沙银行未发放信用类优惠贷款。
As of February 19, Changsha Bank has not issued credit-type preferential loans, according to the relevant director of the SME Finance Department of Changsha Bank.
主要还是采取保证或抵押的方式，要求企业提供足额的抵押品，或采取法定代表人提供“无限连带责任担保+部分抵押”，亦或担保公司担保的方式。
Mainly through the guarantee or mortgage, enterprises are required to provide full collateral, or take the legal representative to provide "unlimited joint and several liability guarantee + partial mortgage," or guarantee the way of the company's guarantee.
在授信额度上，其主要根据企业在防疫阶段的防疫用途资金减去自有资金来确定资金需求额度，在需求资金额度的基础上，再根据长沙银行的具体授信政策确定最终授信额度。
In terms of credit line, the amount of funds needed is mainly determined according to the funds for epidemic prevention used by enterprises in epidemic prevention stage minus their own funds, and on the basis of the amount of funds needed, the final credit line shall be determined according to the specific credit policy of Changsha Bank.
据了解，截至2月13日，长沙银行累计发放符合专项再贷款使用标准的贷款达3.6亿余元。
It is understood that as of February 13, Changsha Bank cumulative loans in accordance with the criteria for the use of special reloans reached more than 360 million yuan.
专项再贷款发放银行内部人士普遍关注，如何在风险与速度之间找到平衡点。
Dedicated refinancing bank insiders are generally concerned about how to balance risk with speed.
“与以往不同，专项再贷款我们也是首次碰到，按照监管要求，未来会安排专项审计，而且是按照‘先贷后借'的模式发放。
"It's the first time we've had a special refinancing operation, unlike in the past, where special audits will be arranged as part of regulatory requirements and at & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot
由于时间紧迫，我们都是以最快的速度进行审核和放款，在一些项目评估上，有的企业结构复杂，比如企业主体在名单内，但其物资采购、销售等是由子公司完成，这种情况是否符合专项再贷款发放规定，还需要进一步明确。
Due to time constraints, we are all quick to review and release funds. In some project evaluations, some enterprises are complex in structure, such as the main body of the company on the list, but the purchase and sale of goods is done by the subsidiary company.
”张陆透露，目前遇到的特殊情况，会积极与监管部门加强沟通汇报，以确保符合相关要求。
Mr Zhang said the special circumstances would be actively addressed with regulators to ensure compliance with the requirements.
另一方面，专项再贷款强调“应急”，若银行按照原来的程序，其实很难做到及时，但这实际上又跟传统的审慎原则存在冲突。
On the other hand, special-purpose refinancing emphasizes "contingency," which is difficult to achieve in time if the bank follows the original procedure, but in practice it conflicts with the traditional precautionary principle.
一名国有大行分行行长担忧，如果之后出现大量坏账该如何处理？若银行过度考虑自己的风险，那肯定会对企业提出更高要求，后者的资金可得性便降低。
One head of a big state-owned bank worried about what to do if there were a lot of bad debts later on. If banks were to think too much about their risks, they would surely place higher demands on companies, which would have less access to capital.
银行很难去做到平衡，最终只能在特殊时期降低一定的“门槛”。
It is difficult for banks to strike the right balance, and ultimately to lower a certain "threshold" in exceptional times.
比如授信额度之前会通过系统测算给出，但目前则是根据企业的实际需求提供资金。
Credit lines, for example, are based on systematic calculations before they are issued, but are currently funded according to the actual needs of the enterprise.
另有某地城商行企业金融业务部负责人告诉《财经》记者，名单中的部分企业虽有资金需求，但已经负债过高，并不符合授信要求。
The head of the financial business department of a comptoir told Caijing that some of the companies on the list were already over-indebted and did not meet the credit requirements, despite the need for funds.
对于这种情况，贷款放不放？“一般情况下，我们不会去过于主动接触此类型企业，但若对方向我们提出资金需求，我们便只能就该公司在此次抗疫任务中是否已确有订单、是否有合作担保公司担保、是否有还款来源等情况进行评估，最后可能会放款，但额度较小。
"Normally, we don't approach this type of company very actively, but if we ask for money, we can only assess whether the company has an order, a cooperative guarantee company guarantee, a source of repayment, and so on, and may eventually lend, but in a smaller amount."
”上述负责人说。
'said the head.
“政府推荐重点企业名单，目前更多是考虑‘抗疫’，无法兼顾企业的实际生产运作情况。
"The government has recommended a list of key companies, and is now considering more 'anti-epidemic' rather than taking into account the actual production and operation of enterprises.
这个时候，金融机构的责任就是把控风险，运用专业能力去帮助企业。
At this time, the responsibility of financial institutions is to control risk, use professional capacity to help enterprises.
这也是为什么国家要通过银行，而不是把钱直接发给企业的原因。
That is why the state issues money directly to businesses through banks, not directly.
”华南某城商行总经理接受《财经》记者采访时表示，当下虽然满足企业防疫需求是首位，但对于一些存在风险的企业，银行确实没有太大动力去接触，这并非疫情阶段所独有，其背后有待体制机制等方面的完善。
In an interview with Caijing, the general manager of a city comptoir in south China said that while meeting the need for epidemic prevention is the number one priority, banks do not have much incentive to reach out to companies at risk.
一名金融行业观察者曾从支行对公业务人员构成（支行行长、对公副行长、对公客户经理）角度切入，撰文指出为何银行在拯救民营企业上动力不足：支持民营企业的最终决定权在基层的支行行长与对公客户经理手中，有经验的支行行长与客户经理不会因为上层强调政治正确，就去做之前做不了的业务。
A financial-sector observer, who has cut into public-sector personnel (branch governors, vice-presidents, and public-sector managers), argues that banks have little incentive to rescue private-sector businesses: the ultimate decision to support private-sector firms rests with local and public-sector managers, and experienced branch and client managers do not do what they could not because the upper echelons emphasize political correctness.
毕竟，如果出现不良，最终会影响到自己的收入与晋升。
After all, if something goes wrong, it will eventually hurt your earnings and promotion.
现在说“尽职免责”，若银行之后亏损严重，恐怕难逃相应责任。
Now say "due diligence disclaimer," if the bank later serious losses, I am afraid that the corresponding responsibility.
提及银行加大中小微企业信贷投放中存在的风险，银保监会首席风险官肖远企在2月27日的国新办新闻发布会上强调，目前采取的临时性安排，并不是放松监管的标准。
Speaking at a press conference on Feb. 27, Xiao Yuan, chief risk officer of the CBRC, stressed that the interim arrangement is not the standard for deregulation.
银行在对这些企业提供金融服务时，要遵循原来自身的风险管控标准和相应的监管要求不能放松。
In providing financial services to these enterprises, banks should not relax their own risk control standards and corresponding regulatory requirements.
后续驰援：3000亿之外还有什么？随着全国性和地方性重点企业名单的不断扩容，有市场人士担忧，3000亿专项再贷款是否能满足更多重点企业的需求？是否会出现供不应求的情况？按照央行分配，3000亿专项再贷款中，全国性银行额度为2000亿元，地方法人银行为1000亿元。
As the list of national and local key enterprises expands, some market participants are worried that the 300 billion refinancing will meet the needs of more key enterprises and whether there will be a shortage of funds.
至于省市地区及每家银行是否有具体的额度分配，部分银行告诉《财经》记者暂无相关限制，但亦有地方性银行反馈称有一定的额度限制。
Some banks told Caijing there was no such restriction, but some local banks reported that there was a quota limit.
“目前额度并未用完，仅使用了40%。
"The current quota has not been used; only 40 per cent has been used.
”某地方性银行高管向《财经》记者表示，总体来看，额度基本够用。
A local bank executive told Caijing that the quotas were generally adequate.
但后续是否充足，一方面是看新冠肺炎疫情是否被有效遏制，另一方面则是看3000亿专项再贷款的覆盖领域是否扩大。
But whether the follow-up will be sufficient will depend, on the one hand, on whether the outbreak of pneumonia has been effectively contained and, on the other hand, whether the 300-billion-dollar refinancing area has been expanded.
多名银行人士表示，额度并不是一个很重要的指标，能够保证企业享受到优惠政策才是关键，核心是防疫企业真正得到帮助。
Many bankers say quotas are not a very important indicator to ensure that companies enjoy preferential policies is the key, the core is that anti-epidemic enterprises are really helped.
名单中的很多企业更像是一个接口，保证核心企业的资金充足，相应能够传导至上下游的中小企业，进而惠及更多的生产者、就业者。
Many of the enterprises on the list are more like an interface to ensure that the core enterprises are well-funded and can be transmitted to small and medium-sized enterprises upstream and downstream, thereby benefiting more producers and employees.
“金融血液流到中小微企业的‘神经末梢’，是一个逐渐传导的过程。
"The flow of financial blood to the 'nerve endings' of MSMEs is a gradual process of transmission.
”“本质是让利企业，这是一个政策导向问题。
"The essence is to alienate the business, which is a policy-oriented issue.
专项再贷款投放过程中肯定不是每个企业都过亿元。
Special re-lending process is certainly not every enterprise has more than 100 million yuan.
对哪些企业进行支持、支持力度大小、还可采取哪些措施去支持等等，都需要银行进一步考量和把握。
Which enterprises to support, the extent of support, and what other measures can be taken to support, etc. need to be further considered and grasped by banks.
此外，目前只有一年期流贷可享受专项再贷款优惠，但企业防疫生产确实有设备采购固贷需求，建议重点保障企业用于防疫生产的中长期贷款。
In addition, only one-year-old loans can enjoy special refinancing benefits, but enterprise epidemic prevention production does have equipment purchase and consolidation needs, it is recommended to focus on guaranteeing enterprise's medium- and long-term loans for epidemic prevention production.
”某全国性银行高管坦言，当前很多银行也出台了针对受困企业、个体经营者等的扶助政策，比如优惠利率的贷款、延期还款等等，亦可对专项再贷款之外的受困企业实现一定程度的覆盖。
A national bank executive admitted that many banks also have support policies for troubled companies, self-employed people, such as loans at preferential rates, deferred payments, etc., and cover troubled companies beyond special refinancing.
根据中国银行业协会统计，截至2月28日，各银行业金融机构合计信贷支持超过10339亿元。
As of February 28, total credit support from banking financial institutions exceeded 1,033.9 billion yuan, according to the China Banking Association.
亦有银行业从业者建议专项再贷款是否可考虑纳入更多领域的中小微企业。
There were also suggestions from banking practitioners as to whether special refinancing could be considered for MSMEs in more areas.
自疫情蔓延，餐饮、旅游、电影、交通运输、教育培训等领域企业经营者遭受冲击，一名地方银行负责专项再贷款发放的高管告诉《财经》记者，很多亟需资金的企业目前正站在“生死线”上，希望接下来专项再贷款扶助范围逐步扩大。
Since the epidemic spread, business operators in catering, tourism, film, transportation, education and training have been hit, and a local bank executive in charge of special refinancing told Caijing that many companies in dire need of capital are now on the "life-or-death line," hoping that the scope of special reloans will gradually expand.
一个值得关注的好消息是，国家亦关注到中小微企业当下困境，并着手开展更大规模和范围的资金支持。
One piece of good news for attention is that the State is also concerned about the immediate plight of MSMEs and is moving towards larger-scale and broader financial support.
2月25日，国务院常务会议就支持中小微企业复工复产提出，增加再贷款、再贴现额度5000亿元，重点用于中小银行加大对中小微企业信贷支持等。
On February 25, the Standing Committee of the State Council held a meeting on supporting the resumption of work by MSMEs, increasing the amount of refinancing and rediscount by 500 billion yuan, mainly for small and medium-sized banks to increase their support for MSMEs.
紧接着的2月26日，人民银行召开电视电话会议对相关工作作出部署。
Immediately afterwards, on February 26, the People's Bank held a teleconference to deploy the work.
对于此后数量够不够的问题，刘国强在国新办新闻发布会上指出，“针对生产防疫物资企业的3000亿元专项再贷款，额度还没有用完，目前看不需要调整；5000亿元的再贷款再贴现额度，由于刚布置，到底用得怎么样，还要密切观察。
"The amount of 300 billion yuan in special refinancing loans for enterprises engaged in the production of epidemic prevention materials has not been used up, and there is no need to adjust it," Liu said at a press conference at the State Administration of New China.
将来根据情况，不够就考虑再增加额度。
Further increases will be considered in the future, depending on the circumstances.
”有银行从业者直言，扶持范围和力度不断扩大，未来将有更多中小微企业受益。
Some bankers say that the scope and intensity of support are expanding and that more MSMEs will benefit in the future.
但从银行端来看，监管亦应出台相关措施，让机构更有动力去服务中小微企业。
But from the perspective of banks, regulation should also put in place measures to make institutions more motivated to serve MSMEs.
某全国性银行分行信贷管理处处长告诉《财经》记者，希望监管在对贷款条件、程序的考量（落实的合理性）、不良贷款等方面多一点宽容度。
The head of credit management at a national bank branch told Caijing that he wanted regulation to be a little more lenient on loan conditions, procedures (reasonableness of implementation), non-performing loans, etc.
“我们在应急的时候发放了不少贷款，可能有些会达不到监管部门的要求。
"We made a lot of loans during the emergency and some of them may not meet the regulatory requirements.
正常情况下做的事和应急情况肯定会不一样，所以处于特事特办的情况下，是否应该允许一定的容忍度和偏离。
The normal course of action and emergency situations will certainly be different, so in the case of a special office, should a certain tolerance and deviation be allowed.
只要正常执行政策，资金没有被挪用，是否应给予一定的宽容度。
Whether there should be a margin of appreciation if funds are not misappropriated, provided that policies are properly implemented.
”对于监管部门的“容忍度”，有银行高管认为，须在具体环节给予银行实在的政策支持。
In terms of regulatory "tolerance," some bank executives argue that concrete policy support for banks is needed at specific points.
“我们现在针对受疫情影响企业采取贷款利率下浮，加大信贷额度投放等‘抗疫’措施，那比如央行在评估MPA（宏观审慎评估体系）分数时，是否也将我们所做的工作纳入考量，评分提升有利于银行此后更多业务的开展，对银行来说会更有动力。
"We are now targeting firms affected by the epidemic by lowering lending rates and increasing 'anti-epidemic' measures, such as whether the central bank takes our work into account when assessing MPA [macro-prudential assessment system] scores.
”某地方银行行长告诉《财经》记者，此前已向监管沟通申请是否能对部分考核指标进行调整。
The governor of a local bank told Caijing that he had previously asked the regulator if the application could be adjusted for some of the indicators.
此外，如何将“尽职免责”政策落实到位，亦需监管进一步明确具体标准。
In addition, how to put the "due diligence exemption" policy in place, but also the need for further regulation of specific standards.
“银行信贷人员工作涉及到个人的问责机制，若出现不良，其会被问责，影响到职业生涯，这导致一线的银行员工对企业信贷业务过于紧张。
"Bank credit people work with personal accountability mechanisms that can be held accountable and hurt their careers if they go wrong, leading front-line bank employees to be too tight on corporate credit."
‘尽职免责’我们一直都在做，但什么是‘尽职’，目前标准并不明确，最后变成了仍以结果为导向。
Due Diligence We've been doing this all along, but what's called due diligence is not clear at the moment, and it turns out to be still results-oriented.
”上述银行负责人坦言。
The bank's head confessed.
对于后续金融领域还可采取哪些措施帮助受困中小微企业，邮储银行高级经济师卜振兴接受《财经》记者采访时表示，首先，保险机构可发挥商业保险作用，提供贷款信用保险；其次，融资租赁公司可以提供设备租赁、售后回租等业务，满足企业生产资料和资金需求；再者，可成立产业基金、防疫基金等项目，金融机构通过基金对企业进行支持；最后，疫情发生会产生大量的应收账款业务，可以通过资产证券化、供应链金融等产品为企业融资提供便利等。
In an interview with Caijing, senior economist of the Bank of PostalPlus told Caijing that insurance companies can play a commercial insurance role and provide loan credit insurance. Second, financial leasing companies can provide equipment leasing, aftersale leaseback and other services to meet their production and capital needs.
（《财经》实习生王雨婷、张琳宜对本文亦有贡献）▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
(Caijing intern Wang Yu-ting, Zhang Linyi has also contributed to this article) Click here to see more details about the outbreak. & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article by Caijing magazine and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
金融版“生死时速”：3000亿抗疫救命钱如何花在刀刃上？。
Financial version of "life and death": 300 billion anti-epidemic money spent on the blade?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "金融版“生死时速”：3000亿抗疫救命钱如何花在刀刃上？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "已发放的专项再贷款实际利率1.28%，比国务院规定的不高于1.6%还要低。
var msg _ desc = & quot; 1.28% real interest rate on issued special purpose reloans, less than the 1.6% rate set by the State Council.
在超速发放过程中，市场关注这些钱是";。
; The market was concerned that the money was & quot; & quot; when overspeeding was issued.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
