谁在满足暴增的CT机需求？。
Who is meeting the surge in demand for CT machines?
金淼。
Miao Jin.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
记者：金淼  编辑：许悦“ 一个月来，GE医疗的北京工厂已经收到了常规订单外的200个紧急订单，一半来自湖北，而这个数字还在增长。
Journalist: Xu Miao: For a month, GE's Beijing plant has received 200 emergency orders in addition to its regular orders, half of them from Hubei, and that number is growing
”2月25日，受疫情影响的春节加长假期结束，北京首都机场迎来一架包机的降落。
On Feb. 25, a charter flight landed at Beijing's capital airport as the Lunar New Year holiday, affected by the outbreak, ended.
这架飞机从法国出发，在那里，它把跨国医疗器械制造商GE医疗在欧洲供应商、工厂的CT机零部件统一装载，运往中国。
The plane departed from France, where it shipped parts for CT machines from GE, a multinational medical device maker, to European suppliers and factories.
正常情况下，这架飞机的运力是一百吨，但它如今只装载了三十多吨，这意味着此次飞行它将损失60%以上的运力。
Normally, the plane would have a capacity of 100 tons, but it now carries only more than 30 tons, which means that it will lose more than 60 per cent of its capacity on this flight.
从商业角度上看，这并不是个好选择，毕竟这将直接抬升成本。
From a commercial point of view, this is not a good option, as it would directly raise costs.
但是眼下，成本已经不是重点。
But for now, cost is no longer the point.
这些来自全球供应链的CT零部件抵达首都机场后，迅速启动了一场接力赛。
These CT parts from the global supply chain arrived at the capital airport and quickly started a relay race.
春节期间一直保持在岗的首都机场海关人员保证了进口货物的随到随检，企业提前2-3天在线上完成清关申请，货物抵达后查验过审，通关时间从以往的2到3天，变为“零延时”。
Customs officers at the Capital Airport, which remained on duty during the Spring Festival, ensured the on-call inspection of imported goods. Enterprises completed clearance applications 2-3 days in advance and checked the goods upon arrival, changing the clearance time from two to three days before to zero delay.
然后，GE医疗北京影像设备生产制造基地所在的亦庄经济开发区的海关部门接过接力棒，简化审批环节，把原本需要半天的审单过程压缩至1小时。
Then, the customs department of the Yizhuang Economic Development Zone, where GE Medical's Beijing imaging equipment manufacturing base is located, took over the baton, simplifying the approval process and compressing the original half-day order process to one hour.
清关结束。
Customs clearance completed.
有一部分零件被立即送往GE医疗北京影像设备生产制造基地，火速组装。
Some of the parts were immediately sent to GE Medical Beijing Imaging Equipment Manufacturing Base, where they were assembled quickly.
最快三天后，这些零部件组装的CT设备就会出货，被运往1100公里外的武汉。
In three days at the earliest, these parts will be assembled CT equipment shipped to Wuhan, 1100 kilometers away.
临床上，医生需要通过结合CT影像学表现，判断病人是否感染新冠肺炎。
Clinically, doctors need to combine CT imaging findings to determine whether the patient is infected with New Crown Pneumonia.
为了应对方舱医院对紧急隔离区和救治设施建设的需求，GE医疗设计了一体式方舱CT检查机房；在雷神山医院，GE医疗提供的是能够避免医患接触并利用AI提高效率的深度天眼CT。
In response to the need for emergency isolation and treatment facilities at Fang Ngau Hospital, GE Medical designed a one-piece CT examination room; at Raytheon Mountain Hospital, GE Medical is a deep-eye CT that avoids doctor-patient contact and uses AI to improve efficiency.
“未来两周内，GE医疗将陆续在武汉体育中心、黄陂一中体育馆等19家武汉方舱医院交付20套一体式方舱CT检查室，帮助武汉应对新冠肺炎的快速、精准诊断。
"In the next two weeks, GE will deliver 20 sets of one-piece CT examination rooms to 19 Wuhan Fangpi Hospital, Wuhan Sports Center and Huangpi Stadium to help Wuhan cope with the rapid and accurate diagnosis of the new crown pneumonia.
”GE医疗北京影像设备生产制造基地总经理陈和强对界面新闻说。
Chen He Qiang, general manager of GE Medical Beijing Imaging Equipment Manufacturing Base, told Interface News.
根据医采招网信息，在CT设备生产商中，GE医疗以33.15%的市场份额在中国独占鳌头。
GE has the largest market share of any CT device maker in China, with 33.15%, according to Medicare.
GE医疗北京影像设备生产制造基地是GE医疗全球最为重要的医疗影像设备制造基地之一，生产的设备覆盖CT、X光机、乳腺机、介入手术机在内的多个品种，供应全球市场。
GE Medical Beijing Imaging Equipment Manufacturing Base is one of GE's most important medical imaging equipment manufacturing bases in the world, producing a variety of equipment, including CT, X-ray machines, breast machines, interventional machines, and so on, to supply the global market.
其中以CT设备尤为甚，目前全球70%左右的CT设备都出自GE医疗北京工厂。
Especially CT equipment, currently around 70% of the world's CT equipment is from GE Medical Beijing factory.
但CT生产也是典型的全球化制造业分工的产物。
But CT production is also a product of the typical globalized manufacturing division of labor.
一台CT设备需要6000个部件，涉及遍布全球的150多家供应商，而在中国的供应商有80多家。
One CT device requires 6,000 components and involves more than 150 suppliers worldwide, compared with more than 80 in China.
GE医疗此次包机，是这个医疗器械巨头历史上首次通过包机连接全球供应链。
GE Medical's charter is the first time in the history of the medical device giant that a global supply chain has been connected by charter.
新冠疫情的爆发带来CT需求的猛增，一个月来，GE医疗的北京工厂已经收到了常规订单外的200个紧急订单。
GE's Beijing plant has received 200 emergency orders over the past month, in addition to regular orders, as the outbreak of the new crown has led to a surge in CT demand.
其中一半来自湖北，另一半来自广东、浙江等地的方舱医院、普通医院，而这个数字还在增长。
Half came from Hubei, the other half from square-cabin hospitals and general hospitals in Guangdong, Zhejiang and other places, and the number was growing.
中国疫情爆发后，多家航空公司停止飞往中国，国际航空运力出现严重不足。
After the outbreak of the epidemic in China, many airlines stopped flying to China, seriously inadequate international air capacity.
而随着近期国内各企业陆续复工，进出口需求的恢复，运力不足的问题将会进一步凸显。
With the recent resumption of domestic enterprises, import and export demand recovery, the problem of insufficient capacity will be further highlighted.
GE医疗北京影像设备生产制造基地所需的零部件及国内外上游厂商的零部件进出口将面临极大的不确定性。
GE Medical Beijing imaging equipment manufacturing base for parts and components and domestic and foreign upstream manufacturers of parts and exports will face great uncertainty.
“我们在2月10号左右，开始考虑要有包机的方案。
"We started thinking about the charter flight around February 10.
”GE医疗中国高级物流经理苗杰夫对界面新闻说。
GE Medical China Senior Logistics Manager Miao Jeff told Interface News.
然而包机到底要怎么做，GE医疗也没有经验。
However, GE Medical has no experience with chartered flights.
包机连接供应链，除了沟通全球的生产团队、订单管理团队外，还要外部协调供应链、物流货运及海关，仅货运代理公司就要沟通欧洲、中国、美国三地的货运代理。
In addition to communicating with production teams and order management teams around the world, chartered aircraft also coordinate supply chains, logistics freight and customs externally. Freight forwarders alone have to communicate with freight forwarders in Europe, China and the United States.
“前一段时间，我和全球各地的同事天天开会，基本工作到凌晨一点，把所有流程梳理清楚。
"Some time ago, my colleagues around the world and I met every day and basically worked until 1: 00 in the morning to sort out all the processes.
”苗杰夫说。
"said Miao Jeff.
包机在解决运力和时效的同时，也极大抬升了运输成本。
The chartered aircraft, while addressing capacity and timeliness, have also significantly increased transport costs.
短时间内的快速响应，会导致物流操作风险的增加。
Rapid response in a short period of time can lead to an increase in logistics operational risk.
尽管如此，这个方案还是迅速获得了GE医疗全球高层的支持。
Still, the plan quickly gained top global support from GE Healthcare.
讨论后7天，2月17日，GE医疗决定包机。
Seven days after the discussion, on 17 February, GE decided to charter the medical plane.
2月28日凌晨，芝加哥飞来的GE医疗包机抵京2月25日后的四周里，GE医疗的包机将每周4架次执飞“法国-北京-芝加哥-北京-法国”航线，两进两出北京。
In the early morning hours of Feb. 28, GE's charter flight from Chicago arrived in Beijing four weeks after Feb. 25, and GE's charter flight will fly "France-Beijing-Chicago-Beijing-France" four times a week, two into Beijing and two out.
对疑似病例的排查和跟踪患者病情发展刻不容缓，紧急状态之下，GE医疗对生产流程进行大幅度调整。
The diagnosis of suspected cases and follow-up of the development of patients without delay, GE medical procedures under emergency, the production process has been significantly adjusted.
北京经信委给工厂开了“路条”，这是GE医疗和上游供应商沟通复工的证明，帮助他们打通了国内供应的关键。
The BEIJC has issued "roadstrips" to factories, proof that GE's medical and upstream suppliers are communicating back to work, helping them unlock the domestic supply chain.
“目前上游的供应链的供应商已经复工了，但问题是疫情的需求不是正常的需求，是翻倍的需求，所以对供应商来说，也是超过原本承受能力的需求。
"The supplier of the upstream supply chain is back to work, but the problem is that the demand for the epidemic is not normal, it is a doubling of demand, so for suppliers, it is beyond what they could afford."
”陈和强说。
"said Chen and Qiang.
在平常的日子里，一台CT从组织配件到工厂出货，需要2至3周。
On a typical day, a CT would take two to three weeks to ship from tissue parts to a factory.
但新冠疫情下这个节奏不再被允许。
But the pace is no longer allowed under the new crown.
正月初三（1月27日），GE医疗接到雷神山医院的深度天眼CT订单，需要设备一周内进场。
On the third day of the first month (January 27), GE Medical received a deep sky-eye CT order from Raytheon Mountain Hospital, requiring equipment to enter the market within a week.
那之后基地开始两班轮换，24小时不停，三天两夜完成一台深度天眼CT生产，使得这台深度天眼CT在雷神山医院交付时完成装机。
Since then, the base has begun two shifts, 24 hours a day, two days and two nights to complete a deep sky-eye CT production, allowing this deep-eye CT to be installed at the time of delivery at Raytheon Hill Hospital.
常规订单中，生产线首先保证生产效率最高、工人劳动最优，但紧急订单不再把这些需求纳入考虑，某个零部件的缺货，就要“趴单”。
In a regular order, the production line first ensures the most efficient production and the best work for the workers, but emergency orders no longer take these needs into account, and when a component is out of stock, it has to "lean out."
“工人就得等，这种生产成本相对比较高，会损失掉一部分的劳动生产率，但这个是不用讨论的。
"Workers have to wait. This is a relatively high cost of production and a loss of productivity, but that is not discussed."
现在的情况是我们全球都在集中资源帮助中国，满足疫情非常紧急的需求，所以成本已经不是我们考虑的首要因素了。
Now that we are concentrating resources around the world to help China meet the very urgent needs of the epidemic, cost is not a priority for us.
”陈和强说。
"said Chen and Qiang.
实际上，以超过工厂负荷代价保证生产的不止北京影像设备生产制造基地，GE医疗全球其他工厂都在向中国进行资源倾斜，“如果中国的需求还是相对高的话，我们要求他们（全球工厂）做额外的订单来帮助生产。
In fact, GE Medical's other factories around the world are tilting resources toward China at the expense of factory capacity alone, and "if Chinese demand is still relatively high, we are asking them [global factories] to make additional orders to help with production."
”苗杰夫说。
"said Miao Jeff.
欧洲的供应商也在分秒必争。
Europe's suppliers are racing against the clock.
欧洲血管一样的公路物流，会提前将GE医疗分散在挪威、奥地利、芬兰的工厂、供应商的零部件整合到法国，由待命的包机将货物运往中国。
Vascular road logistics in Europe could pre-position GE's parts from factories and suppliers in Norway, Austria and Finland to France and ship goods to China on standby charter flights.
运抵首都机场卸货后，这架飞机将再度启程，将中国需要出口的零部件带往芝加哥——在那里，零部件会再一次被分散到这家跨国企业在全球的各个工厂。
After unloading cargo at the capital airport, the plane will depart again, taking parts that China needs to export to Chicago, where parts and components will once again be dispersed to the multinational's factories around the world.
CT设备生产完毕，还有地面交通管制的重重难关需要解决。
CT equipment production, but also ground traffic control difficulties need to be resolved.
2月初，北京降了一场大雪，当天GE医疗有几台CT设备需要从北京工厂发货。
In early February, a heavy snow fell in Beijing, when GE Medical had several CT devices that needed to be shipped from a factory in Beijing.
亦庄经济技术开发区安排了除雪车来到厂区，快速清雪后，货车得以顺利出发。
Yizhuang Economic and Technological Development Zone arranged for the snow to come to the factory area, rapid snow clearing, goods vehicles were able to set out smoothly.
除了天气因素增加了运输困难，地面物流的成本也因疫情原因造成了大幅上涨。
In addition to the weather factors increased transport difficulties, the cost of ground logistics due to the outbreak caused a significant increase.
而安装又是一道难题，雷神山医院要求7天内完成订单交付和安装。
And installation is a difficult problem, Lei Shenshan Hospital requires 7 days to complete the delivery and installation of orders.
在这个过程里，既要保障当地服务团队的健康安全，同时还要够快。
In this process, both to ensure the health and safety of the local service team, but also fast enough.
从春节开始，GE医疗的场地工程师就在抗疫一线完成各种紧急装机和调试任务。
From the Spring Festival onwards, GE medical site engineers in the front line to complete a variety of emergency installation and debugging tasks.
2月28日，国家卫健委疫情应对处置工作专家组组长梁万年表示，湖北除武汉地区外，疫情已经得到了有效遏制。
On February 28, Liang Yuan, chairman of the national health committee's epidemic prevention and treatment team, said the outbreak had been effectively contained in Hubei, except in Wuhan.
陈和强也希望这种非常态的工作节奏可以尽快结束。
Chen and Qiang also hope that this unusual pace of work can end as soon as possible.
“我希望清明过后，我们按照现在国家卫健委公布的信息，希望在4月有比较好的一个势头。
"I hope that after the Tomb Sweeping Day, we will have a good momentum in April," he said.
”陈和强说。
"said Chen and Qiang.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
谁在满足暴增的CT机需求？。
Who is meeting the surge in demand for CT machines?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "谁在满足暴增的CT机需求？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Who's meeting Rise's surge in CT machine demand?;
var msg_desc = "一个月来，GE医疗的北京工厂已经收到了常规订单外的200个紧急订单，一半来自湖北，而这个数字还在增长。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; GE's Beijing plant has received 200 emergency orders over the past month, half of them from Hubei, and that number is still growing.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
