援鄂心理医生：疫情之下，不能简单对人进行道德评价。
E: Under the epidemic situation, we should not simply make moral evaluation on people.
杨舒鸿吉。
Yang Shuhongji.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
设在新冠肺炎定点医院里心理咨询室。
At the New Crown Pneumonia designated hospital psychological consultation room.
记者：杨舒鸿吉“ 在疫情高度紧张的时候，如何在保证自身安全的前提下，以最有效的办法进行心理干预，此前并无经验可循。
Reporter: Yang Shuhongji "in the high tension of the epidemic, how to guarantee their own security, the most effective way to psychological intervention, there is no previous experience.
能不能行得通，全靠自己摸索。
Whether it works or not is entirely up to you.
”新冠肺炎疫情在湖北省爆发之后，身处一线的医护人员在救治患者的同时，还要随时面临被传染的风险。
"After the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia in Hubei Province, medical staff on the front line are faced with the risk of infection at any time while treating patients.
在心理治疗师陈亮亮看来，如不尽早干预，这场与病毒的长期斗争，极有可能给医护人员造成应激创伤综合征。
In the psychotherapist Chen Liangliang, if not early intervention, this long-term fight with the virus, is likely to cause stress trauma syndrome to health-care workers.
于是，作为最早支援武汉的心理治疗师之一，陈亮亮将工作室设在了离医护人员最近的医院病房里。
So, as one of the first psychotherapists to support Wuhan, Chen Liang Liang set the studio in the hospital ward closest to the medical staff.
他说，在疫情高度紧张的时候，如何在保证自身安全的前提下，以最有效的办法进行心理干预，此前并无经验可循。
'At a time of heightened tension, there is no prior experience with the most effective ways to intervene psychologically while ensuring our own safety, 'he said.
能不能行得通，全靠自己摸索。
Whether it works or not is entirely up to you.
以下是他的口述“有时忍不住想被感染了也没什么，起码不用倒班了。
Here's his dictation: "Sometimes it doesn't matter if you want to be infected, at least not on shift.
”当听到眼前这位面容稚嫩的护士，平淡说出如此悲情的话语，我仿佛看见了压在她肩上的一股巨大的、难以挣脱的压力。
As I heard the plaintive words of the tender-faced nurse before me, I seemed to see a great, unbreakable pressure upon her shoulders.
这是2月份，我在武汉接待疫区前线医护人员咨询时遇到的一幕。
This is February, I received in Wuhan epidemic area front-line medical personnel encountered in the consultation.
我叫陈亮亮，是上海市长宁区精神卫生中心的精神科主治医师。
My name is Chen Liangliang, the psychiatrist of Changning District Mental Health Center in Shanghai.
从业9年里，我大部分时间都在普通精神科病房内，管理着30张以上的床位，患者包括重型精神障碍、人格障碍和酒精依赖人群等，曾参加过4次民防应急心理救援演练，也定期在门诊接待各类来访者。
In my nine years of practice, I spent most of my time in the general psychiatric ward, managing more than 30 beds for people with severe mental disorders, personality disorders and alcoholism, participating in four civil defence emergency psychological rescue exercises and receiving regular visitors at outpatient clinics.
正因为有着多年的临床心理治疗和心理救援经验，所以在2020年2月初，我响应号召并加入第三批上海援鄂医疗队，成为最早一批到达武汉的心理治疗师。
Because of my many years of experience in clinical psychotherapy and psychological rescue, in early February 2020, I answered the call and joined the third medical team in Shanghai to become the first batch of psychotherapists to arrive in Wuhan.
在常人看来，一名精神科医生与疫情关联并不大。
In the eyes of ordinary people, a psychiatrist has little to do with the epidemic.
但是我明白，当这场疫情肆虐武汉时，如何让亲历者从灾难冲击下的应激状态中走出来，避免成为日后难以摆脱的梦魇？怎样有序开展紧急心理危机干预，是这座城市必须面对和思考的问题。
But I understand that when the epidemic ravages Wuhan, how to let the first-hand experience out of the shock of the disaster, to avoid becoming a nightmare? How to carry out emergency psychological crisis intervention in an orderly manner is the city has to face and think about.
回顾我国近年来发生的每一次重大灾难和突发公共卫生事件，比如非典疫情、汶川地震，亲历者往往会在相当长的一段时间内经历恐惧、焦虑与无助感，这就是公众熟知的应激创伤反应。
Looking back at every major disaster and public health emergency that has occurred in our country in recent years, such as the SARS epidemic and the Wenchuan earthquake, the first-hand experience of fear, anxiety and helplessness is a well-known public response to stress trauma.
在医学界，早期识别，早期干预，能有效减少最终发展为创伤后应激障碍（PTSD）的可能性。
In medicine, early identification, early intervention, can effectively reduce the likelihood of developing post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).
坦白说，在疫情高度紧张的当时，如何在保证自身安全的前提下，以最有效的办法进行心理干预，此前并无经验可循。
Frankly, at a time of heightened tension, there was no prior experience with the most effective ways to intervene psychologically, while ensuring their own safety.
能不能行得通，全靠自己摸索。
Whether it works or not is entirely up to you.
为了能够在最前线为患者提供服务，几经沟通，我们终于找到了一处地点开设工作室。
In order to be able to provide services to patients in the front line, after several communications, we finally found a location to open a studio.
工作室的办公点原本是产科病区治疗室，隔壁紧挨着医护们的休息室，头顶和脚下都是收治新冠肺炎的重症病房，是最接近我们工作对象的地方。
The studio's office was originally an obstetrics ward, next door to the nurses' lounge, and overhead and foot were intensive care units for new crown pneumonia, closest to where we worked.
在紧张布置工作室的时候，一名护士数次路过，并从半掩的门中打量了我们，眼神中既有期待也有迟疑。
As we nervously set up the studio, a nurse walked by several times and looked at us through the half-open door, with expectant and hesitant eyes.
布置完毕，她走了进来，成为工作室的第一位来访者。
When the arrangement was complete, she came in and became the first visitor to the studio.
“在疫情爆发前，我就是这里的妇产科护士，我觉得特别难以接受的是，过去工作带给我的总是迎接新生命到来的喜悦。
"Before the outbreak, I was an obstetrician-gynaecologist here, and I found it particularly difficult to accept that my past job always brought me the joy of a new life.
现在我害怕进入病房，我在那里每天都经历着绝望和死亡。
Now I am afraid to enter the ward, where I experience despair and death every day.
和过去相比，我觉得从天堂掉入了地狱.......”在大约半小时的交谈中，我听到了她对于同事的担忧、对于家人的愧疚以及对自己无力挽救生命的自责……我没有试图去打断她或是给些建议，因为我已经感受到过去一个月里疫情带给她的心理压力，此刻的她更需要被倾听。
I feel like I've fallen from heaven to hell... "In about half an hour of conversation, I heard her worry about her colleagues, her guilt about her family and her inability to save her life... I didn't try to interrupt her or give her some advice because I felt the psychological pressure of the past month and she needed to be heard even more.
“你把自己以前的工作描述为迎接生命到来并为之感到幸福，相信你已领悟了生；但现在，或许你需要直面死亡了，尤其是在重症监护室里。
"You describe your previous job as welcoming life and feeling happy about it, believing that you've learned it; but now, maybe you need to face death head-on, especially in intensive care.
毕竟生与死都是医者的必修课，既是人生的常态。
After all, life and death are compulsory courses for doctors, is the normal life.
也未必不是另一种意义的圆满。
Nor is it necessarily a complete satisfaction in another sense.
”我试图从另外一个维度给予她支持和安慰。
I tried to give her support and comfort from another dimension.
破解消极的思维循环，为“来访者”提供一个更全面看待问题的角度，是心理咨询中的一种常规思路。
Cracking the negative thinking cycle and providing visitors with a more comprehensive view of the problem is a common way of thinking in psychological counseling.
在说完这句话的时候，我看到来访者的眼睛里有了些许亮光。
As I said this, I saw a little light in the visitor's eyes.
我确信这次辅导起了作用。
I'm sure this tutorial worked.
陈亮亮挂在咨询室外面的留言板上，贴满了医护人员的寄语。
Chen Liang Liang hung on the message board outside the consultation room, covered with messages from medical staff.
从一次次心理咨询中，我更加走近了这群医护人员的内心。
From a psychological consultation, I came closer to the heart of this group of medical personnel.
平均年龄不到30岁的她们在这场疫情之下，难免会有些彷徨失措。
They, with an average age of less than 30, will inevitably lose their wits in the face of the epidemic.
那名将被感染与不用上班画上了等号的来访者，就是这种真实又无奈心情的真实写照。
The visitor, who will be infected and will not have to draw the same sign of work, is the true picture of this real and helpless mood.
当然这只是人们在高压之下的某种应激反应。
This, of course, is just some sort of stress response under high pressure.
人性本来复杂，有些人会选择义无反顾冲上去，但有的人可能本能地会想退一下，给自己一个缓冲的时间。
Human nature is complex, some people will choose to rush forward, but some people may instinctively want to retreat, give themselves a buffer time.
在咨询师眼里，不能简单地进行道德评价。
In the eyes of consultants, moral evaluation is not simple.
另外一名医护人员告诉我，每天8小时的工作，需要频繁的进行手消毒。
Another paramedic told me that working eight hours a day required frequent hand disinfection.
以至于每天下班回到隔离酒店时，仍然无法摆脱这种工作情绪，会一度精神恍惚，经常回想，刚才洗没洗过手？这些实实在在的案例，也从侧面反映出抗疫战斗对人的影响。
Even when I return from work every day, I still can't get rid of the feeling of work, I feel like I was in a trance, and I often think about how I have washed my hands.
除了医护人员，新冠肺炎患者中，精神病人是一群容易被忽视的群体。
In addition to medical staff, mental patients are a group of people who are easy to be ignored.
在疫情的冲击下，他们原本脆弱的心理防线更容易出现消极、绝望的情绪。
In the impact of the epidemic, their already fragile psychological defense line is more likely to appear negative, desperate mood.
而且精神疾病的药物可能会与新冠肺炎药物在作用机理上产生相互影响。
Moreover, drugs for mental illness may interact with new-crown pneumonia drugs in the mechanism of action.
一位曾罹患重度抑郁症的患者不幸感染了新冠肺炎。
A man who had suffered from severe depression had the misfortune to contract pneumonia in the new crown.
由于需要隔离治疗，她与爱人分在不同的病房，缺少亲人陪伴加剧了抑郁症病情，也会影响到治疗效果。
Due to the need for seclusion, she and her partner are housed in separate wards, and the lack of family support exacerbates depression and affects treatment outcomes.
好在通过及时微信沟通，我们掌握着她的每天情况，并及时调整用药。
Fortunately, through timely micro-communication, we have her daily situation, and timely adjustment of medication.
目前，她已经出院，我们对她的跟踪治疗仍在继续。
She is now out of the hospital and our follow-up continues.
通过微信来完成咨询，尽量减少接触，同时与床位医生保持沟通，了解合并用药的实际效果，并通过与上海后方的专家连线，不断优化用药方案……这都是我们的日常工作。
Through micro-letters to complete the consultation, minimize contact, while maintaining communication with the bedside doctor to understand the practical effects of the combined use of drugs, and through the link with experts at the back of Shanghai, continuously optimize the medication regimen... This is our daily work.
武汉的春天来了，我们给患者的心理辅导中，也多了一些有关春天的诗情画意的描述。
Wuhan spring, we give patients psychological counseling, but also some of the poetic description of the spring.
在最近一期的“心理小报”上，我的同事写了一首小诗，送给此刻正在与病毒作战的他们。
In a recent issue of the Psycho-tabloid, my colleagues wrote a little poem to them as they battled the virus.
诗中写道：“草长莺飞二月天，拂堤杨柳醉春烟，病毒无情，人有意，卧榻病床莫神伤；窗外花开三两枝，醉人春风迎面来，人道初春好时节，待您康复踏春来。
"The grass warbler flies away in February, The willow trees are dead, The virus is merciless, The bed is not broken; Out of the window blossoms three or two, The lovely spring breeze comes face to face, When you recover from spring.
”这也是我此刻最真切的期盼。
This is what I am looking forward to most.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
援鄂心理医生：疫情之下，不能简单对人进行道德评价。
E: Under the epidemic situation, we should not simply make moral evaluation on people.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "援鄂心理医生：疫情之下，不能简单对人进行道德评价";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "在疫情高度紧张的时候，如何在保证自身安全的前提下，以最有效的办法进行心理干预，此前并无经验可循。
var msg _ desc = & quot; at a time of heightened tension, there was no prior experience with the most effective methods of psychological intervention, while ensuring its own safety.
能不能行得通，全靠自己摸索。
Whether it works or not is entirely up to you.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
