除夕夜，我接到设计雷神山的紧急任务。
On New Year's Eve, I received an urgent mission to design Mount Raytheon.
马婕盈。
Vergere Ying.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
马婕盈/华中科技大学新闻与信息传播学院当杨雪涛和他的高中老同学们商量着重录歌曲《手牵手》的时候，大家突然从同学群里得知，同学胡晓芳的一位学妹，已经临危受命，接过了抗击新冠肺炎的一项关键任务——为雷神山医院做规划设计。
Vergere Ying / HUST School of Journalism and Information Dissemination When Yang Xuetao and his senior high school classmates were discussing and recording the song Hand in Hand, they suddenly learned from the class that a schoolmate named Hu Xiaofang had taken over one of the key tasks in the fight against the new crown pneumonia - planning and designing for Lei Shenshan Hospital.
众人惊讶之余，纷纷点赞。
The people were surprised and praised.
这位负责设计雷神山医院的“学妹”，就是仇争艳，她是一名来自中南设计建筑院医疗健康事业部的室主任设计师。
The "school sister" who is responsible for designing the Lei Shenshan Hospital is Qiu Zhengyan, a designer from the Medical and Health Division of the South-Central Design Institute.
仇争艳（左）和施工方一起核对污水处理站旁边一系列机房的位置。
Hung Shengyan (left) and the construction side of the sewage treatment station to check the location of a series of rooms.
受访者供图1月24日晚上，除夕夜，中南设计院接到了这项紧急任务：25日中午就要向武汉市初步汇报医院设计方案，27日上午就得将雷神山医院的初步施工设计图纸交到承建方手中，27日上午11点，雷神山医院箱式板房首个模块开始施工。
On the evening of January 24, the Central South Design Institute received the urgent task of giving a preliminary report to Wuhan on the design of the hospital at noon on the 25th of January. The preliminary construction design drawings for Lui Shenshan Hospital were handed over to the contractor on the morning of the 27th.
设计和施工，按着快进键展开，而留给设计的仅有三天时间。
Design and construction, press the fast-forward key to unfold, leaving the design only three days.
仇争艳说，这个除夕夜，众人都是紧绷着的，晚上八点半接到通知踏勘场地，十点钟开会讨论，十一点开始设计，第二天中午出设计方案，12小时的时间，自己和同事们要设计出一家能够容纳1500床的大型传染病医院。
On New Year's Eve, everyone was under a tight schedule. At 8: 30 pm, they met to discuss the site, 11 o'clock to start the design, the next day at noon, 12 hours to design a large infectious disease hospital that can accommodate 1,500 beds.
过年期间很多技术骨干已经离开武汉，仇争艳所在的医疗健康事业部的领导及两名设计师来到现场。
During the Chinese New Year, many technical cadres have left Wuhan, where Qiu Zhengyan's medical and health department and two designers came to the scene.
接到任务后，中南建筑设计院不同部门相互配合凑齐了建筑结构、水电、暖通、空调、经济等各专业设计师二三十余人……“这些天晚上睡觉都想着工地在赶进度，怕漏掉重要电话，早上醒来会第一时间查看电话。
Upon receiving the assignment, different departments of the China-South Architectural Design Institute have joined forces with more than twenty-three designers specializing in building structure, hydropower, heating, air-conditioning and economics.
每天工作状态就是开着免提，一边打字，一边画图，一边接电话。
Work day is open hands-free, typing, drawing pictures, while answering the phone.
”仇争艳说，“特别紧张的时候，没有感受到疲惫或者想要去放松，唯一的感受就是时间不够用。
"When you're particularly nervous, you don't feel tired or want to relax, and the only feeling is that you don't have enough time.
”仇争艳跟技术总师在现场看医技区域施工情况。
"Qiu Zhengyan and the chief technologist watched the construction of the medical technology area on the spot.
受访者供图仇争艳的口述除夕夜的紧急任务1月24日晚上吃完饭之后，我和爸妈在一起看春晚，我拿着笔记本电脑聊天，也有一搭没一搭地看着疫情的相关报道。
After dinner on the evening of January 24, my parents and I watched the Spring Festival Gala. I held my laptop to chat and watched reports of the epidemic.
八点半，医疗健康事业部的总监打电话过来通知我去看现场，时间很紧，也没说为什么去看，只说：“我们准备看现场，在江夏，你能不能来。
At 8: 30, the director of the Health Division called to let me know if I could come to see the scene. The time was tight and he said, "We are going to see the scene.
”他一说去江夏，我就知道肯定是这方面的事情了（建雷神山医院）。
"As soon as he said he was going to Jiangxia, I knew it must be about this (Jianlei Shenshan Hospital).
23号，中信建筑设计研究总院的同学给我发消息，我知道火神山医院启动了。
No. 23, the chief architectural design research institute of CITIC sent me a message, I know the fire god mountain hospital started.
其实我们这边也在准备，身为医疗建筑设计师，在1月23日武汉宣布封城时，我就开始着手在网上搜索非典时期“小汤山”的设计资料，以备不时之需。
In fact, we are also preparing, as a medical architect, on January 23 when Wuhan announced the closure of the city, I began to search the SARS period "Xiaotangshan" design information, in case of need.
因为没车没法去江夏现场，就决定直接参加十点钟的会议。
As there was no car to go to Jiangxia scene, decided to participate directly in the meeting at 10 o'clock.
大家都是临时召集的，我到会议室的时候他们已经踏勘回来了，来到会议室没有交流的时间，直接进入正题。
They were all convened on an ad hoc basis, and by the time I got to the conference room they had already gone back, had no time to communicate and went straight to the point.
地址是提前选定好的，大家就讨论建设上的技术问题，比如隔离医院的分区、建设规模等。
The address was chosen in advance, and the technical aspects of the construction were discussed, such as the partitioning of the isolated hospital and the size of the construction.
雷神山医院的选址在江夏军运村食堂，原项目是我们公司EPC总承包建设的，我们对这个地块的各方面情况都很熟悉。
Lei Shenshan Hospital site in the Jiangxia Junyun Canteen, the original project is our company EPC total contract construction, we are familiar with all aspects of this plot.
会后通知，定于1月25日中午向武汉市政府汇报。
Notice after the meeting, scheduled to 25 January at noon to Wuhan city government report.
开完会之后，有紧张感，但更多的是时间上的顾虑，其实中南院做过上百个医院的项目，技术上还是有信心的，但是放假期间能现场办公的设计师不算多，很多技术骨干不在武汉，我们部门那天参会的设计师只有两个人。
After the meeting, there is tension, but more time concerns, in fact, the South China Hospital has done hundreds of hospital projects, the technical confidence, but during the holidays can work in the field designers, many not in Wuhan, our department that day attended the design of only two people.
我主要负责项目总体规划，用地分析，建设规模测算等，节点任务是第二天向政府部门汇报方案。
I am mainly responsible for the overall planning of the project, land use analysis, construction scale estimation, etc. Node task is to report to government departments the next day.
所以我首先整理了汇报提纲，做好PPT框架，发给各个专业的相关人员，要求在第二天十点前汇总。
So I first sorted out the report outline, do a good job of the PPT framework, sent to the relevant professional personnel, the next day before 10 o'clock to aggregate.
开会的一个小时只是明确了建筑方案的大致方向，还很难确定具体方案。
The one-hour meeting only clarified the general direction of the construction programme, and it was difficult to identify a specific programme.
设计的难点就在于，时间紧迫，大家难以充分讨论和思考，必须分工独立解决本专业内的问题，同时还要兼顾彼此，在短时间内拿出可行有效的方案。
The difficulty lies in the fact that time is short and it is difficult for us to fully discuss and think about it. It is necessary to work out the problems in our profession independently, while at the same time taking care of each other and coming up with feasible and effective solutions in a short time.
其实最大的难题还是这个用地相对紧张，难以布置出1500床的病房单元，同时要考虑车辆出入口、风向等因素。
In fact, the biggest problem is that the land is relatively tight, difficult to arrange the 1500-bed ward unit, taking into account factors such as vehicle entrance, wind direction and other factors.
我们尝试了几种布局，确定了一两个相对可行的方向。
We tried several layouts and identified one or two relatively feasible directions.
这种紧迫的项目大家都很安静地投入着，跟平时我们在设计中会反复探讨和争论形成反差，每个人都在争分夺秒，有了统一的目标反而更加高效。
This kind of urgent project everyone is very quiet, with our design will be repeatedly discussed and argued in contrast to each other, everyone is competing for time, unity of purpose is more efficient.
定稿出来了！25号凌晨两点，我们在尝试论证的过程中逐渐确定了建筑的布局，做好了两种可供选择的规划方案。
Finalized! At 2 a. m. on the 25th, as we were trying to demonstrate, we gradually identified the layout of the building and made two alternative plans.
下午一点半到武汉市政府汇报，政府召集了各个部门，环保局、消防局、规划局等等。
At 1: 30 pm to Wuhan city government reported that the government convened various departments, environmental protection bureau, fire bureau, planning bureau and so on.
我主要是汇报规划方案的大致布局、建设规模，然后请各个部门决策。
I mainly report on the general layout of the plan, the scale of construction, and then invite departments to make decisions.
会议大概有二十人参加，会议室不大，U型的会议桌坐的很紧凑。
The meeting was attended by about twenty people, the conference room was small and the U-shaped table was very tight.
领导们的效率也挺高，一个小时内会议就形成基本意见，我们立刻返回公司深化设计。
The leaders were also very efficient. Within an hour the meeting formed the basic ideas, and we immediately returned to the company to deepen the design.
有了基本规划方案，施工方中建三局已经开始施工准备了，他们还没有拿到图纸，只有初步的总平面，就先开始处理场地。
With the basic plan in place, the builders Zhongjian three Bureau has started to prepare for the construction, they have not received the drawings, only the preliminary overall plan, first began to deal with the site.
我们继续对方案做进一步深化。
We continue to deepen the programme.
下一步，就是27号出初步的施工图纸。
The next step is to produce preliminary construction drawings on the 27th.
设计过程中，方案会存在各种调整和变化。
During the design process, there will be various adjustments and changes in the program.
比如医技科室，里面有重症监护室、CT检查、负压手术室，这些东西要配合的内容非常多。
For example, the medical technology department, there are intensive care unit, CT examination, negative pressure operating room, these things to cooperate with a lot of content.
在明确该区域的设计图纸后，我就跟建设方做了沟通，需要尽快确定医疗工艺设计及施工单位跟我们配合，这样避免影响该区域的施工进度。
After clarifying the design drawings for the area, I communicated with the builders and the medical process design and construction units needed to be identified as soon as possible in order to avoid affecting the progress of the construction in the area.
还有垃圾处理、污水排放等问题，这不是单纯的设计过程，还牵扯到选材、选设备、用量，所以需要很多单位一起协调才能确定有效实施方案。
There are garbage disposal, sewage disposal, this is not a simple design process, but also involved in the selection of materials, selection of equipment, dosage, so many units need to work together to determine effective implementation.
深化图纸的过程中，需要多方配合。
In the process of deepening the drawing, multi-party cooperation is needed.
那段时间我在不停地打各种电话，跟设备厂家和不同分项设计单位联系来确定施工图中的很多细节，每天就是开着免提，一边打字，一边画图，一边讲电话。
During that time I kept on making all kinds of phone calls, contacting the equipment manufacturer and various sub-designers to find out the details of the drawings.
此外，还有很多线上的视频会议，讲话特别多，我本来就有咽炎，讲得越多咳得越多，所以现在项目结束很久了咳嗽还没好。
In addition, there were a lot of online videoconferences and speeches, and I had pharyngitis. The more coughs I had, the more I coughed, so I still had a cough a long time after the project ended.
1月25号到30号这几天，是设计强度最高的一段时间，吃饭是由单位集中点餐，有盒饭送进来。
January 25 to 30, the design intensity of the most intense period, eating by the unit concentrated order, there is a box of rice to bring in.
我也很少回家，就在办公室的小床上睡觉，任务特别紧张的时候，能睡上三四个小时吧，没有时间感受疲惫或者去放松，唯一的感受就是时间过的太快了。
I rarely go home either, sleeping in my office bunk, sleeping for three or four hours at a particularly stressful time. I don't have time to feel tired or relaxed.
从我家到单位会经过武汉市七院，它是发热门诊的定点医院，医院门口排队的人很多，除夕夜第一次去开会的时候，我专门绕了一下路避开七院。
From my home to the unit will pass Wuhan seven hospital, it is a fever clinic designated hospital, the hospital gate line up a lot of people, New Year's Eve when the first time I went to the meeting, I made a special round the road to avoid the seven courtyard.
但是之后去单位也不绕路了，只是骑到马路对面，戴上眼镜，多加一层口罩，还是想节省时间。
But after going to the work unit is not detour, only to ride across the road, wear glasses, an additional layer of masks, or to save time.
施工过程中，需要不断和施工方、卫健委、接管的医院汇报沟通，来论证使用流程上的各种细节。
During the construction process, it is necessary to continuously communicate with the constructor, the health committee and the hospital to demonstrate the details of the use of the process.
医院也给了很多修改意见，所以除了建设方的问题，还要兼顾管理部门和使用部门。
The hospital also gave a lot of modifications, so in addition to the construction of the problem, but also management and user departments.
图也一直在改，直到31号图纸才基本稳定，不再有大的变动，2月1号我们在办公室做整理和收尾的工作，施工图定稿基本完成了。
The drawing has also been changing, until the 31 drawings are basically stable, no major changes, February 1 we do in the office finishing and finishing, the final draft of the construction has been basically completed.
从未接触过的挑战雷神山医院图纸交接之后，2月2日下午我就有时间去工地了，一直到5号第一分区交付，几乎每天都去现场看看，到了天黑四处看不见了才回来。
After the handover of the drawings of Raytheon Mountain Hospital, I had time to go to the construction site on the afternoon of February 2 until I was delivered in Subdivision 1 of the 5th. I went to the site almost every day and did not return until it was dark.
去工地主要是为了查看施工现场与图纸冲突的地方，以及现场实际实施中的困难，以便对设计做出合理修改。
The main purpose of the site visit is to check the site and drawing conflict, as well as the actual implementation of the difficulties, so as to make reasonable changes to the design.
现场是一直有驻场项目管理的，但是很多图纸上的细节问题还是具体设计师更清楚，所以我们到现场解决问题也是非常必要的。
There is always on-site project management, but many of the details on the drawings are clearer to the designers, so it is necessary for us to solve the problem on the spot.
工地基本上是按图施工，但是也会出现一些之前没有考虑到的现实问题。
The site was basically built on drawings, but there were also real problems that had not previously been taken into account.
就比如污水处理站，实际的设备埋深特别大，场地操作面有限，导致旁边相应的一系列机房都要改动位置，如消毒加药间、垃圾处理间等。
For example, sewage treatment station, the actual depth of equipment is particularly large, the operation of the site is limited, leading to a corresponding series of adjacent rooms have to change the location, such as disinfection medicine room, garbage disposal room, etc.
场地有限，每个房子考虑的污染防护间距有一定的要求，所以这块调整的次数非常多，通过一次次现场实测距离，对房子的间距做了合乎规范的调整后，才紧凑地布置了进去。
The space is limited, each house to consider the pollution protection spacing has certain requirements, so this adjustment is very many, through a number of on-site measured distance, the spacing of the house has made a standardized adjustment, then compact layout.
中南院去年成立医疗健康部，但是我工作十余年里参与设计过很多医院。
The Central and South China Hospital set up a Health Department last year, but I have worked in designing many hospitals for more than a decade.
在大型综合医院里面一般都会规划有传染楼，我们也做过，但是专门的传染病医院每个城市并不会太多。
Infectious buildings are usually planned in large general hospitals, and we have done so, but there are not many specialized hospitals for infectious diseases in every city.
像这次边设计边施工、十天设计到建成的应急医院就仅此一次。
This side design side construction, 10 days of design to the completion of the emergency hospital is only once.
参与建设雷神山医院，刚开始是很激动的，想着可以为武汉的疫情防控做点什么。
Participation in the construction of Lei Shenshan Hospital, is very excited at the beginning, think of Wuhan can do something about disease prevention and control.
但是投入之后，担忧却不少：时间紧张，任务量很大，特别是5号验收前，很担忧。
But after the investment, there are many worries: tight time, the task is very large, especially before the acceptance of the 5th, very worried.
记得我第一个作为专业负责人负责的项目是湖北省中医院，那是我工作的第三年。
I remember that the first project I was in charge of as a professional was Hubei Chinese Hospital, which was the third year of my work.
中标之后，医院各方面的意见很难达成一致，我们前前后后方案做了二三十个，基本上每个星期要出两到三个方案供选择，光方案设计过程就有小半年。
After winning the bid, it was difficult to reach a consensus on all aspects of the hospital. We did twenty or thirty projects back and forth. Basically, we had two or three options available every week, and the optical design process took half a year.
正常的项目建设周期是很长的，省中医院的项目是2010年定的方案，2011年初出的图纸，到了2014年8月份才建成。
The normal project construction cycle is long, and the provincial Chinese hospital project is a programme established in 2010, and the drawings produced in early 2011 were completed only in August 2014.
以往去现场不会特别频繁，汇报方案的时候是每星期去，开始建设后一年去三、四次。
In the past, visits to the site were not particularly frequent, with the programme being reported on a weekly basis and three or four times a year after construction began.
常规项目的施工跟雷神山完全不一样，我们给他们一套完整的图纸，基本就是照图施工。
Routine project construction and Lei Shenshan is completely different, we gave them a complete set of drawings, basic is to follow the construction.
很少会像雷神山这样需要根据实际可调配的设备或材料来修改设计。
It is rare for a design to be modified according to the actual equipment or material that can be deployed, as in Raytheon Mountain.
雷神山建成了去工地的时候，现场工人很多，24小时不停工，有人在工作，也有人在换班休息。
When Raytheon Hill was built to go to the construction site, a large number of workers on the site, 24 hours do not stop work, some people are working, there are people on shift rest.
场地里的工人比我们常规去工地的多很多，密密麻麻。
The workers at the site were much more numerous and crowded than we used to go to the construction site.
工地在很远的两个路口之外就开始限行了，在我们等候接驳车的区域，可以看到全国各地的大卡车等在那里，一辆一辆排着长队，每一辆上面都装满了货物。
The site began to be restricted two blocks away, and in the area where we were waiting for the shuttle bus, we could see large trucks waiting in long lines, each filled with goods, all over the country.
车上拉着横幅，大致写着哪里援建武汉雷神山医院，很多厂家送来各种设备及物资，集装箱、空调、电视等等。
The car pulled a banner, roughly written where to build Wuhan Lei Shenshan Hospital, many manufacturers sent a variety of equipment and materials, containers, air conditioning, television and so on.
2月5日要交付验收，雷神山医院总建筑面积约8万平方米，即使是5万平方米的医院，最短的建设时间也要三年。
To be handed over for acceptance on February 5, the total construction area of Lui Shenshan Hospital is about 80,000 square meters, even if the hospital is 50,000 square meters, the shortest construction time will take three years.
4号的时候施工还在紧张进行，当天下着小雨，很多地方都有积水，整个施工状态是很忙乱的。
The fourth time the construction is still in a tense, when the world light rain, many places have accumulated water, the whole construction state is very busy.
当天我们把初步验收的区域检查了一遍，其实要整改的地方还是不少的，下雨给工地带来了很多不便，接电接线会出现很多安全隐患，工人们操作起来也十分不便。
On the same day, we checked the preliminary acceptance area, in fact, to rectify the place or not a lot of rain to the site brought a lot of inconvenience, power connections will appear many security hazards, workers are also very difficult to operate.
但是工人们的效率也很高，经过一夜的整改。
But the workers were also very efficient, after a night of rectification.
到了5号完成了局部交付，其他的区域的建设仍在继续。
Partial delivery was completed by No.5 and construction continued in other areas.
雷神山有三十多个病区，5号验收的是其中两个区，其他的区域是在之后的几天内陆续完成的。
There were more than 30 disease areas in Mount Raytheon, two of which were accepted by No. 5, and the rest were completed within the next few days.
虽然图纸完成，但每天的电话还是很多，建设方那边会一直跟我做沟通和调整，还会有一些媒体的采访和约稿。
Although the drawing is complete, but the daily phone calls are still many, the side of the construction side will always communicate with me and adjust, there will be a number of media interviews and appointments.
同事们又要马不停蹄地去做方舱医院的改造，这些任务也很紧急，基本上一两天之内就要完成。
Colleagues will have to do the constant renovation of the cabin hospital, these tasks are also urgent, basically within a day or two to complete.
现在工作没有那么紧张了，不过前段时间工作的状态还没有调过来，六点半就会醒。
Now the work is not so tense, but the state of the previous work has not been adjusted, will wake up at 6: 30.
太久的疲惫很难短时间恢复，刚结束雷神山医院设计那段时间，吃完早饭会再睡一下，基本上有任务来的话就要在家办公，然后抓紧一切时间补充睡眠。
It is difficult to recover from too long fatigue, just finished Lui Shenshan Hospital design time, after breakfast will sleep again, basically have a mission to work from home, and then seize all the time to replenish sleep.
雷神山医院已经投入使用，但疫情结束才是精神紧张能够告一段落的时候。
Raytheon Mountain Hospital is already in use, but the end of the epidemic is the end of mental tension.
我一直认为建筑师是承担一定社会责任的职业，这次参与雷神山项目设计更是让我体会深刻，我们作为医疗建筑设计师虽然没有像医务工作者那样奋斗在一线，但是追求更好更完善的建筑设计可以为病人、医护人员等等每一个忙碌其中的人，带来一份安全与庇护，这也是特别重要的。
I have always considered architects to be socially responsible professionals, and I am impressed by this involvement in the design of the Raytheon Mountain project. Although we as medical architects are not as committed as health-care workers, the pursuit of better and better architectural design can bring safety and shelter to every busy person: the sick, the medical staff and so on.
（指导老师：华中科技大学新闻与信息传播学院教师 周婷婷；澎湃新闻记者 张小莲 崔烜）本期编辑 邢潭推荐阅读。
(Supervisor: Zhou Tingting, a faculty member of the School of Journalism and Information Dissemination, Central China University of Science and Technology.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
除夕夜，我接到设计雷神山的紧急任务。
On New Year's Eve, I received an urgent mission to design Mount Raytheon.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "除夕夜，我接到设计雷神山的紧急任务";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; On New Year's Eve, I had the urgent task of designing Ray & quot;;;
var msg_desc = "从未接触过的挑战";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; never contacted.
title: '一名空乘确诊，5名复工人员被隔离',。
A flight attendant was diagnosed and five reinstated workers were quarantined with service.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '3省5个监狱共确诊555例，司法部谈疫情细节漏洞',。
Ritle: & apos; 555 cases were diagnosed in five prisons in three provinces. & nbsp; & # 160; & # 45; & Justice & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '582分钟，交卷！',。
Running: & apos; 582 minutes, handing in its paper!
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
