在人间丨我走了50公里，回武汉送外卖。
I walk 50 kilometres into the world to send it back to Wuhan.
撰稿：阳关。
Writing: Yangguan.
在人间living                      。
Living on earth.
在人间living。
Living on earth.
用冷静的叙述抵抗冰冷 | 凤凰网在人间工作室出品。
Resist cold & # # 124; & # 45; Order of the Phoenix with a sober narrative.
一我叫李丰杰，我在武汉送外卖。
My name is Li Fengjie. I deliver it in Wuhan.
我本来想过年留在武汉值班跑单，但是腊月二十九那天早上一出门，我妈就一直给我打电话，每隔十分钟或者半个小时就打一次，强烈要求我回家，说武汉出现了新型冠状病毒，再不回来就回不来了。
I would like to stay on duty in Wuhan for the Spring Festival, but on the morning of the 29th, my mother has been calling me, every ten minutes or half an hour, urging me to go home, said Wuhan has a new coronavirus, will not come back.
搞得我没办法工作，他们电话一打进来，客人就找不到我了。
I couldn't work because the guests couldn't find me when they called in.
在这之前，我也看到很多新闻和浏览器推送新型冠状病毒的信息。
Before that, I also saw a lot of news and browsers pushing new coronavirus messages.
去年12月底时，病毒还没有扩散开来，我看到有些骑手戴口罩。
By the end of December, the virus had not spread and I saw some riders wearing masks.
我问他们，戴口罩干嘛。
I asked them why they were wearing masks.
他们就说，武汉好像有病毒肺炎。
They say Wuhan seems to have viral pneumonia.
作为外卖小哥，这是很需要注意的。
As a take-out brother, that's something to watch out for.
我们送餐就是要对顾客负责，对商家负责，对外卖负责。
We are responsible for delivering food to customers, to businesses and to external sales.
我是骑士长，我们小组里有二十几个人。
I'm a knight. We have about twenty people in our group.
我开始要求每个人都必须佩戴口罩。
I began to require everyone to wear a mask.
情况渐渐不好起来。
Things are getting worse.
人们只要上街，就都戴着口罩，把自己裹得严严实实的。
People wear masks whenever they go out into the street and wrap themselves up in a mask.
经过一些药店，看到好多人堵在药店门口，买口罩，买防护装备。
After a few pharmacies, see a lot of people in the entrance to the pharmacy, buy masks, buy protective equipment.
距离除夕一个星期时，有一次我去一个常进的小区送餐，突然不能进了，我问什么情况，保安就说是因为病毒。
A week before New Year's Eve, I went to a regular community to deliver food, suddenly unable to enter, I asked what the situation, the security because of the virus.
后来领导告诉我们这些基层骑手，到哪里可以领口罩。
Later the leader told us where the grass-roots riders could get their masks.
一些跑单的人也觉得病毒很严重，就提前回家了。
Some of the runners also felt the virus was serious and went home early.
又临近春节，我们组从1月12日起陆续有人回家，到1月19日时，已经走掉一大半了。
As the Spring Festival approached, our group began to have people come home from January 12, and by January 19, they had already walked more than half of it.
我作为骑士长，不可能跟着一起回去。
I can't go back with you as a knight.
现在我们组还剩下7个人。
There are still seven people left in our group.
他们几个本来就是住在武汉，在武汉买了房，就在这边过年。
They were originally living in Wuhan, in Wuhan bought a house, on this side of the New Year.
我不知道这种病毒到底是什么性质，心想，可能和2003年的非典差不多。
I don't know what the virus is, and I thought it might be similar to SARS in 2003.
我是1996年生的，其实对非典的印象也不深。
I was born in 1996, but I was not impressed by SARS.
但腊月二十九这天，我爸妈坚持打电话要我回去，我就想着回去安抚一下他们。
But on the 29th of December, my parents insisted on calling me back, and I thought I would go back and comfort them.
打算回去过完年三十，初一就赶回武汉上班。
I plan to go back to Wuhan to work on the first day of the new year.
那时，武汉到孝感的长途客运车已经停运了。
At that time, Wuhan to filial piety of the long-distance bus has been stopped.
我表哥刚好也要从武汉回去，我妈就打电话给我表哥，让他顺便载我。
My cousin just want to go back from Wuhan, my mother called my cousin, let him drop me off.
下午三点多，我跟着表哥一起回去了。
After three in the afternoon, I went back with my cousin.
下高速时，设卡的工作人员给我们量了体温。
The staff at the checkpoint took our temperature off the highway.
二没想到，我回去的当天晚上，武汉的高速路口被封，国道也被封。
Unexpectedly, I went back that night, Wuhan high-speed intersection was blocked, the state road was also closed.
所有长途客运班车都停运。
All long-haul passenger buses are out of service.
没有通行工具。
No means of access.
我以往都是坐一个半小时长途客车往返武汉和孝感。
I used to ride a coach for an hour and a half to Wuhan and feel filial piety.
我跟爸妈说，不行啊，我得想办法回武汉。
I told my parents, no, I have to find a way back to Wuhan.
我觉得自己必须回武汉，我的队员还在武汉上班，作为骑士长，我觉得我应该跟他们一起在武汉抵御疫情，为那些分散在医院的医生护士送上热餐，尽绵薄之力。
I feel I have to go back to Wuhan, my team members are still working in Wuhan, as a knight, I think I should join them in Wuhan to fight the epidemic, the scattered doctors and nurses in the hospital to send a warm meal, a small contribution.
我在手机上看了很多新闻，各个地方的人都来支援武汉。
I read a lot of news on the mobile phone, people from all over the place came to support Wuhan.
我觉得这跟我也有关系，我队里面的人还在武汉，还在坚持，我应该跟他们一起为需要的人送上一份热餐。
I think it has something to do with me. The people on my team are still in Wuhan and still insist. I should have a hot meal with them for those who need it.
但是我爸妈不同意。
But my parents don't agree.
当时孝感也有疫情，他们心里有点慌。
There was an epidemic of filial piety, and they were a little nervous.
我在家里跟他们做思想工作。
I work with them at home on ideas.
他们没有真正了解过武汉的病毒，就只是听说这个病毒很厉害。
They did not really understand the Wuhan virus, just heard that the virus is very severe.
我每天都反复跟他们说，不用担心，该来的会来，不该来的不会来，如果病毒要找我，我怎么躲都没用，我去武汉不会有事的。
I repeatedly told them every day, do not worry, should come, shouldn't come, if the virus to look for me, I can hide no use, I will go to Wuhan will be all right.
父母问我，没车你怎么回去，我说那我就走回去。
My parents asked me how you could get back without a car, and I said I would walk back.
他们也拗不过我。
They can't get through to me.
我是铁了心。
I'm determined.
正月初一早上七点，吃完早餐，我就从家里步行出发了。
I left home on foot at seven in the morning of the first month after breakfast.
天还蒙蒙的，走着走着，慢慢亮起来。
It was still cloudy, walking along, slowly brightening up.
为了减轻负重，我只带了手机和一瓶水。
To lighten my load, I brought only my cell phone and a bottle of water.
我家到武汉有五十公里，我当时预计最多走十个小时，天黑之前赶到武汉。
My home to Wuhan is 50 kilometers, I expected to walk up to 10 hours, before dark to reach Wuhan.
从家里出来，我就上了国道，国道两边都是稻田，也没有什么农作物，空空的，可以看到一些村庄的房子。
From home, I went on the national road, on both sides of rice paddies, there are no crops, empty, you can see some village houses.
虽然很萧条，但是我很开心。
Though it was very depressed, I was very happy.
老爸老妈终于不拦我了，上路的时候不说你不要回去了。
Mom and Dad finally let me off, when the road did not say you do not go back.
他们就说自己注意安全。
They say they care about safety.
我很兴奋。
I'm very excited.
走的不算快。
Not fast enough.
长途步行千万不要跑，会浪费精力，而且跑不了多远，还会很疲惫，就是匀速地走就完了。
Long-distance walking must not run, will waste energy, and can not run much, but also very tired, is to walk at a uniform end.
我以前在部队里当兵，每个月都有拉练，就是徒步，那时体力好，走50公里是很简单的事。
I used to be a soldier in the army. I practiced every month. I was on foot.
现在已经五年没有怎么锻炼，完全是靠自己的毅力坚持。
Now I haven't done much exercise for five years, I just keep on doing it by my perseverance.
我一直走，一直走，没有歇过，也不看手机。
I kept walking, walking, never taking a break, never looking at my cell phone.
在国道上有一段路看不到人，我就想，走了这么久，这段路怎么一个人都没有，周围也看不到村庄和房子。
In the national road there is a section of the road can not see people, I think, after such a long time, how the road no one, around the village and houses.
两只腿已经麻木了，不知道停下来休息。
His legs were numb and he did not know how to stop and rest.
我就觉得一直往前走就对了。
I thought it was right to go straight ahead.
国道上基本看不到车。
Cars are barely visible on the National Highway.
偶尔遇到几个人在路上晃悠，我们都戴着口罩，因为疫情，彼此能避开就避开。
Occasionally we meet a few people hanging around on the road, we all wear masks, because of the outbreak, we can avoid each other.
国道两边村与村之间的路都拿土堆隔断了，桥也被土堆隔断了，我就从土堆上爬过去。
The road between the village and the village on both sides of the national road was cut off by dirt, and the bridge was cut off, so I climbed over the dirt pile.
差不多在国道走了几个小时，我就开始走小路，在田间穿梭。
After walking for about a few hours on National Road, I started walking up and down the fields.
因为小路比较近，可以节省时间。
Because the path is closer, it saves time.
但这里没法用导航，导航只会把我导到大路上。
But there's no way to navigate here. Navigation only takes me down the road.
我以前坐车来来回回经过很多次，也有点印象。
I used to take the car back and forth many times, but also a little impression.
之前表哥给我指过一个方向，我就朝着那儿走了。
My cousin had pointed me in one direction before, and I was going there.
我就朝着那个方向一直走，哪里能走就走哪里。
I'm going straight in that direction and I'll go wherever I can.
这里的路，你看着好像就在对面，但是中间却隔着一条大水沟，还要绕路。
The road here, you seem to be on the opposite side, but in the middle of a large ditch, there is still a detour.
三这一路上，我想了很多。
I thought a lot along the way.
先是担心封路，等我走到那边，会不会设卡，不让我回武汉。
First worried about the road closure, when I go there, will not set up a checkpoint, not let me back to Wuhan.
但又想我的兄弟还在武汉，我要尽快回去。
But also want my brother is still in Wuhan, I want to go back as soon as possible.
很累的时候，我给自己鼓劲，想我已经到这个地方了，就算要拦着我，我也要回武汉。
Very tired, I give myself encouragement, think I have arrived in this place, even to stop me, I will go back to Wuhan.
最期待的是路上能拦到一辆顺风车。
The best thing to look forward to is a free ride on the road.
但我从家里出发一直走到武汉边上都没碰到。
But I set out from home to the edge of Wuhan did not encounter.
我不停给自己说，一定会有顺风车，就快有啦！如果不这样想，长长的一条路，一眼望不到头，人就会很失望。
I kept saying to myself, there will be a windward car, soon! If you do not think so, a long road, a look no end, people will be very disappointed.
下午三点半多，我已经走得很累了，天气也开始阴冷。
At half past three in the afternoon, I was tired of walking and the weather began to get cold.
这时来了两辆私家车，我试图拦下来问能不能载我。
There were two private cars, and I tried to stop and ask if I could get a ride.
但人家根本就不停，也没理我。
But people don't stop, they don't talk to me.
我能理解他们，于是又继续走。
I understood them and went on.
走了一整天，我连午饭也没吃。
After walking all day, I didn't even have lunch.
是完全忘记了要吃午饭，也感觉不到饿。
I completely forgot to have lunch and I didn't feel hungry.
到了下午，我满脑子想的都是，我马上要到武汉了。
By the afternoon, all I could think about was that I was going to Wuhan.
全身的细胞都兴奋起来了。
All over the body the cells are excited.
我给自己说，天黑之前，一定要到武汉。
I told myself that I must go to Wuhan before dark.
不然天黑就麻烦了，找不到方向。
Or it gets too dark to find a way.
直到最后，我看到一条水泥路，心里想，哇，走过前面这段路，我就到武汉了，不远了。
Until finally, I saw a cement road, think to myself, wow, the road ahead, I will reach Wuhan, not far.
武汉边上有一条河，河上有一座桥，桥也被堵住了。
There is a river on the edge of Wuhan. There is a bridge over it. The bridge is also blocked up.
我远远看到国道上有几个穿着防护服的人站在桥头，还有警察。
I saw at a distance a few men in protective clothing standing at the bridge and policemen on the National Highway.
心想肯定过不去。
I'm sure I can't.
于是我又沿着河找其他路进去，大概走了一两个小时才找到小路。
So I followed the other way down the river and walked for about an hour or two before I found the path.
小路上的桥也被堵住了，设了卡。
The bridge over the path was blocked and a card installed.
那边堆着土堆，旁边还有一架很大的推土机。
There's a mound of dirt and a big bulldozer next to it.
一个年纪比较大的大叔在那守着，他坐在板凳上，戴着口罩。
An older uncle was there, sitting on a bench and wearing a mask.
有两个人站在那也要去武汉，跟我说，不让过。
There are two people standing there also want to go to Wuhan, told me not to.
我当时心里一紧，完蛋了，估计又要找地方绕路了。
I was so nervous that I might have to find another detour.
但我已经走到这里了，桥对面就是武汉，不可能又原路返回。
But I have come here, across the bridge is Wuhan, it is impossible to return to the same way.
于是我抱着侥幸的心理走过去。
So I walked by with a fluke in my heart.
他问我从哪里来的，我只说我从武汉的边上来。
He asked me where I came from and I just said I came from the edge of Wuhan.
大叔的老婆这时来送饭。
The uncle's wife came to deliver the meal.
她对她老伴说，就让他过去吧。
she said to her wife, let him pass.
大叔站在土堆旁说，你先过来一下，把体温量一下。
The uncle stood beside the mound and said, Come here first and take your temperature.
量了体温，登记了身份证，他告诉我们，到了武汉就不能出来了。
He took his temperature and registered his identity card. He told us that Wuhan would not be able to come out.
被放行后，我很亢奋。
I was excited when I was released.
那时天还没黑，差不多是下午四点多。
It was not yet dark; it was about four o'clock in the afternoon.
进了武汉，我继续慢慢走，边走边看留意路上有没有车，能带我一程。
Into Wuhan, I continued to walk slowly, while looking at the road to see if there is a car, can give me a ride.
走了大概半个小时，到了东西湖区附近，有好几辆车停在路边，我问他们到不到武昌。
After walking for about half an hour, I arrived near the lake. Several cars stopped by the roadside. I asked them if they could get to Wuchang.
他们说到，但不知道哪里设卡了。
They said it, but they don't know where to set it up.
一个司机就说，尽可能把你往那边送，遇到设卡，我停下来，你就下车。
One of the drivers said, "Send you over there as much as you can. When I stop, you get off."
我们运气挺不错，走长江二桥到武昌火车站，一路上畅通无比。
We are lucky to take the Yangtze Er Qiao to Wuchang railway station, along the unobstructed road.
之后我再联系人来火车站接我，当时武汉区与区之间都设了卡。
Then I contact people to meet me at the railway station, then Wuhan district and district set up a card.
我住在洪山区南湖这边。
I live on the south side of Hongshan Lake.
大年初一这一天，我花了十几个小时到家，到家时已经是下午六点半。
On New Year's Day, it took me more than ten hours to get home. It was 6: 30pm when I got home.
我赶紧收拾了屋子，给自己煮了一碗面条。
I quickly cleaned the room and cooked myself a bowl of noodles.
四回到武汉，我发现它跟我离开之前已经是两样了。
Back in Wuhan, I found it was different from before I left.
现在道路空荡荡的，基本上看不到几个人。
The roads are empty and few people are visible.
公交、地铁都停了。
The bus and the subway have all stopped.
我感触很大，心情沉重。
I feel very, very heavy.
一个繁华的城市被新型冠状病毒搞得乌烟瘴气，很多人都不敢出门，窝在家里。
A busy city has been made miasma by the new coronavirus, many people dare not go out, nest at home.
送餐也没有之前那么好送了。
Food isn't as easy as it used to be.
商家少，点外卖的人也少，大部分人已经在家里买了足够的粮食。
Fewer businesses and fewer take-out orders, and most people have bought enough food at home.
但回到武汉第三天，我就开始接单，出门就往有单的商家附近等。
But back to Wuhan on the third day, I began to receive orders to go out to a single merchant waiting.
每天的单很少，我就骑着车在空旷的大马路上晃悠，等单。
Every day the list is very small, I ride the car in the open road, waiting for the list.
正月初三一天，我跑了差不多二十几单。
On the third day of the first month, I ran almost twenty.
大部分的单都是去小区。
Most of the lists go to the neighborhood.
有的小区让进，有的小区不让进。
Some small areas let in, some small areas are not allowed to enter.
小区害怕送餐骑手有感冒症状，我们也怕送餐时遇到感冒的顾客。
The community is afraid of giving food riders cold symptoms, we are also afraid of the delivery of cold customers.
我的小队现在有七个人还在送单，我年纪最小，最大的有40岁。
My squad now has seven people on the list. I'm the youngest and the oldest is 40.
大多人看到医院的单会有点怵。
Most people would be a little nervous to see a hospital bill.
他们会问我，这个怎么搞，要不要送。
They're gonna ask me, what the hell is going on here, you know?
我说可以送啊，不进去就行，站在门口让他们来拿。
I said I could deliver, not go in, just stand at the door and let them pick it up.
他们就打电话跟医生沟通送到医院门口。
They called the doctor and took him to the hospital gate.
我最近去医院送过三次单。
I've been to the hospital three times lately.
医院一般都是下午点外卖。
Hospitals usually take out in the afternoon.
有一次是给武汉一家精神病医院送餐，到了门口发现有防护栏，不让人进去，我就给医生打电话，他们说自己来拿。
Once I sent food to a mental hospital in Wuhan. When I found a guard at the door, I didn't let anyone in, so I called the doctor and they said they were coming for it.
医院住了很多病人，又是敏感期，我们在外面等，这对我们也有保障。
The hospital has a lot of patients, and it's a sensitive period. We wait outside, which is also guaranteed for us.
我有一个同行，他之前送完餐经过医院，看到有好心人拉着一车餐送去医院。
I had a colleague who had taken his meals past the hospital and had seen a good man pulling a load of them to the hospital.
我听了觉得很感动。
I was very moved to hear that.
我知道美团现在也正给一些医院的医护人员免费送餐，觉得挺自豪的。
I know that the U. S. Mission is now giving free meals to some hospital staff, and I'm proud of that.
其实每次去医院心情都不会很好。
Actually every time goes to the hospital the mood is not very good.
还有一次我在小区送餐，看到小区里有人被救护车带走了，内心多多少少也有些紧张。
Another time I was in the community to send food, see someone in the community was taken away by ambulance, the inner more or less nervous.
但我回到武汉了，肯定要继续工作，该送单送单。
But I returned to Wuhan, must continue to work, to send the bill.
我做外卖三年了，当时感觉这一行挣钱比较快，收入不错。
I've been doing take-out for three years and I felt like I was making fast money and making good money.
开始什么都不懂，像个小白。
At first I didn't understand anything, like a little white.
外卖行业是个服务行业，我知道有人看不起我们，但三百六十行，行行出状元。
The take-out business is a service industry, and I know some people look down on us, but three hundred and sixty lines.
一般来说，我是骑士长，要经常和队员们见见面。
Generally speaking, I am a knight leader and I have to see the team members often.
这次回来十天一共只见了三次。
Only three times in ten days had passed since this return.
现在是特殊时期，我们找了一块人少的空地见面。
Now is a special time, we found a small number of empty space to meet.
我提醒他们一定要戴口罩，做好防护。
I remind them to wear masks and protect themselves.
如果有谁觉得不舒服了，要打电话给我。
If anyone is feeling sick, please call me.
我们出门的时候，会把口罩戴好，不去人多的地方。
When we go out, we put on our masks and don't go to crowded places.
去餐厅领东西，我们就站在门口，跟老板说我是美团多少号，老板把餐放到外面桌子上的保温箱里，我们来时直接去拿。
When we got to the restaurant, we just stood at the door and told our boss how big I was. The boss put the food in the incubator on the outside table and we went straight to get it when we came.
为了保证安全，我们送餐的时候是无接触配送。
To ensure safety, we deliver meals without contact.
餐快到时，我就打电话给顾客，跟顾客说放门口了，让他们来拿。
Towards the end of the meal I called the customer, told him to leave the door open and let them pick it up.
特殊时候，大家都能互相理解。
At special times, people can understand each other.
现在我基本每天早上十点出门，晚上十点回家。
Now I go out at ten in the morning and go home at ten in the evening.
我平时不太看微信，用得少，我把家庭群屏蔽了，晚上回家偶尔才看一下。
I usually do not read the letter, use less, I shielded the family group, at night home only occasionally to see.
我怀念那个大街上人来人往，车水马龙的武汉。
I miss the traffic and traffic on that street in Wuhan.
新型肺炎疫情牵动人心，《在人间》现面向全国网友征稿：(一)疫区影像日记如果你身处疫区请你用照片（视频）和文字记录你所听闻和见到的一切照片不少于3张文字不少于300字投稿方式：微信联系人间君（zairenjianliving）（二）抗击疫情真实故事无论你是一线医护人员、志愿者、确诊或疑似患者及家属、已治愈出院人士等等，如果希望讲述疫情相关经历，请微信联系人间君（zairenjianliving）。
If you are in an epidemic area, please use photos (video) and writing to record all photos you hear and see in no less than 300 words. Whether you are a frontline health care worker, volunteer, confirmed or suspected patient and family member, cured patient or discharged person, please contact the ruler of the world by letter.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
在人间丨我走了50公里，回武汉送外卖。
I walk 50 kilometres into the world to send it back to Wuhan.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "在人间living";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; at & quot; among men.
var msg_title = "在人间丨我走了50公里，回武汉送外卖";。
var msg _ title = & quot; walks 50 kilometres to Wuhan to send out & quot;;;
var msg_desc = "我怀念那个大街上人来人往，车水马龙的武汉。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; I miss the bustle and bustle of Wuhan on that street.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '在人间丨武汉封城后，有人在阳台喊话：“对面的，把窗户打开吵个架”',。
At the end of the day, someone shouted from the balcony: "Opposite, open the window." & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; &
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '在人间丨疫区影像日记（二）：封城之后，我免费接送医护人员上下班',。
I carried medical personnel to and from work at no charge after the city was banned.
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '在人间丨武汉封城第一天',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="在人间living";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; at human & quot;
