武汉人在意大利：戴口罩有被打的风险。
Wuhan people in Italy: Wearing masks is at risk of being beaten.
任尚坤。
Ren Shankun.
商业人物                      。
Business people.
商业人物。
Business people.
定义中国商业力量。
Defining China's commercial power.
作者：任尚坤来源：商业人物（ID：biz-leaders)意大利的新冠肺炎疫情，在亚洲之外最为严重。
Author: Ren Shankun Source: Italy's worst outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia outside Asia.
截至2月29日，意大利累计确诊新冠病毒肺炎感染病例1128例，累计死亡29例。
As of February 29, Italy has confirmed a cumulative total of 1128 cases of new crown virus pneumonia and 29 cumulative deaths.
该国最早的确诊病例出现在1月30日，是一对来自武汉的夫妻游客。
The first confirmed case in the country came on January 30, a couple of tourists from Wuhan.
直到2月21日，确诊人数仍仅为3例，三天后增至217例。
As at 21 February, the number of confirmed cases remained at only 3, rising to 217 three days later.
其中，伦巴第大区110例皆与一位意大利男子有关，但该男子没有中国旅行史，感染原因不明确。
Of these, 110 cases in Lombardy were related to an Italian man who had no Chinese travel history and whose cause of infection was unclear.
当地卫生部门将其定为“一号病人”，并尚在寻找“零号病人”以确定传播路径。
Local health authorities designated him as "patient number one" and are still looking for "patient number zero" to determine the route of transmission.
政府对12个市镇采取了“封城隔离”措施，有11个位于首府为米兰的伦巴第大区。
The Government has imposed "cordon-off" measures on 12 municipalities, 11 of which are located in the Lombardy region, the capital city of Milan.
这也是此次疫情重灾区。
This is the worst affected area of the epidemic.
“华人都挺注意防护，但当地民众还是不够重视。
"The Chinese are very protective, but the local people still don't pay enough attention to it.
”来自武汉的星野（化名）当下正在伦巴第留学，在她看来，意大利国民对口罩的“排斥”，也成为近期亚洲群体遭受语言或行为暴力的因素之一。
"Xingye (not her real name) from Wuhan, who is studying in Lombardy, said the rejection of masks by Italian nationals had also been a factor in the recent spate of verbal or behavioural violence against Asian communities.
她对此感到不安，更对接下来的疫情防控感到忧虑。
She was disturbed by this and worried about the prevention and control of the disease that followed.
以下是“商业人物”与星野的对话节选。
Here is an excerpt from the dialogue between "business people" and Star Trek.
意大利：没病不戴口罩商业人物：现在意大利的疫情怎么样？星野：我住在小城曼托瓦，伦巴第大区东南角。
Italy: No Disease, No Mask Commercial Man: What's the current outbreak in ItalyStarno: I live in the small city of Mantova, southeast corner of Lombardy.
这段时间是寒假考试月，所以留学生大多没回国，或是像我一样趁圣诞节假期回趟中国后就回来。
This is the winter vacation examination month, so most of the students did not return home, or I take advantage of the Christmas holidays to return to China.
医院防护似乎并不到位，明文规定在面对确诊病人时才需要佩戴口罩和护目镜，穿好防护服。
Hospital protection does not seem to be in place, with a requirement to wear masks and goggles and protective clothing only in the face of confirmed patients.
不过，就连世卫组织给的防疫指南中，也只强调在出现相关症状或帮助患者时才必须戴口罩。
However, even the WHO guidelines for immunization emphasize the need to wear masks only when symptoms arise or when patients are assisted.
关于“何时佩戴口罩”世界卫生组织官网截图目前公共交通还正常。
"When to wear a mask" World Health Organization official website screenshot is still normal public transport.
原定停课至3月1日的学校，今天又通知我们延迟一周，要求从明天开始上网课。
The school, which was due to be closed until March 1, was again informed today of a one-week delay in starting online classes tomorrow.
迫于压力，部分地方政府已取消之前的公共场所禁令。
Under pressure, some local governments have lifted bans on public places.
留学生们都在一直关注中国疫情情况，所以提前囤了口罩、食物等。
Foreign students have been concerned about the situation in China, so advance hoarding masks, food and so on.
本地华人商家也会给留学生分几个口罩应应急。
Local Chinese businesses will also give students a few face masks to respond to emergencies.
总的感觉，华人都挺注意防护，但当地民众还是不够重视，路上戴口罩的人不算多。
In general, the Chinese people pay attention to the protection, but the local people still do not pay enough attention to wearing masks on the road.
可能涉及环境与文化差异。
May involve environmental and cultural differences.
在他们观念里，戴口罩就意味着你是病人，病人就应该家中休息或去医院治疗，而不是出门逛街、去超市等公共场所。
In their view, wearing a mask means that you are a patient and that the patient should rest at home or go to a hospital for treatment, rather than go shopping or go to a supermarket or other public places.
当地人近期看到亚洲面孔本就有些紧张了，看到戴口罩的亚洲人时会更紧张。
Local people, already nervous to see Asian faces, are more nervous when they see Asians wearing masks.
反过来，亚洲人同样紧张。
Asians, in turn, are nervous.
我觉得，除刻板印象外，文化差异也是不少人遭受语言或行为暴力的一大因素。
I think, in addition to stereotypes, cultural differences are also a big factor in the verbal or behavioural violence that many people experience.
商业人物：从什么时候，你感觉疫情开始在意大利受到关注？星野：大年初一那会儿，我的两个同学戴着口罩到威尼斯旅行，他们在超市被当地高中生嘲笑然后拍摄视频。
When did you feel the epidemic was beginning to catch on in italy? Starno: At the beginning of the new year, two of my classmates were traveling to Venice wearing masks, and they were laughed at by local high school students and filmed.
回出租屋时，有几个孩子又向他们吐口水。
When they returned to the rented house, some of the children spat at them again.
从那时候我才发现，有的地方对亚洲人态度已经改变。
It was only then that I realized that attitudes towards Asians had changed in some places.
中老年人普遍还算平和，年轻群体相对尖锐。
Middle-aged and elderly people are generally relatively peaceful, relatively sharp young groups.
当然，这也和引导有关。
Of course, it has to do with guidance.
青少年本身处于容易被煽动阶段。
Adolescents are themselves at the stage of being vulnerable to incitement.
商业人物：武汉人在这个地方什么感觉？星野：我接触到的人还好，比如房东和上课组队的同学，他们都知道我是武汉人。
What's the feeling of Wuhan people in this placeStargamo: I have a good contact with people like landlords and classmates who know I'm from Wuhan.
他们第一反应是问我家人怎么样。
Their first reaction was to ask how my family was doing.
其实大部分都很好，只是少数带有偏见又不善良的人会做坏事。
In fact, most are very good, but a few biased and unkind people will do bad things.
之前武汉夫妻游客在罗马被确诊，留学生群里倒也有点小冲突。
Wuhan husband and wife tourists were diagnosed in Rome, but also a little conflict among the international students.
有人觉得武汉人乱跑结果“点亮”了别的国家，有同学就出来解释。
Some people think that the results of Wuhan people running around "light up" other countries, some students came out to explain.
当时我正忙着找人托运口罩回国，然后在群里各种刷屏，争论就被我打断了。
I was busy getting someone to check my mask back to my country and then brushing screens around the group when I interrupted my argument.
就像一开始我们也会将新冠称为“武汉肺炎”，我觉得也有思维惯性作祟。
As in the beginning we will also call the new crown "Wuhan Pneumonia," I think there is also inertia.
不过，这里人似乎并不太区分某个具体的中国城市，而是把疫情直接看作亚洲传来的。
However, people here do not seem to distinguish between a specific Chinese city, but to see the epidemic as coming directly from Asia.
有的当地媒体还标错了武汉在地图上的位置。
Some local media have also mislabeled Wuhan's position on the map.
商业人物：你有遭遇过语言或行为暴力吗？星野：暂时没有。
Business persona: Have you ever experienced verbal or behavioral violence? Starry: Not for the time being.
出门为了自保，我戴口罩后还会用围巾遮起来。
To protect myself when I go out, I cover myself with a scarf after wearing a mask.
虽看起来有点怪异，但至少不会有被打的风险。
Strange as it may seem, at least there is no risk of a blow.
2月28日去买肉，路上就我一个人戴了口罩。
Feb. 28 to buy meat, on the road I wear a mask alone.
商业人物：戴围巾是为遮住口罩？星野：对，感觉他们怕的就是口罩。
Businessman: Wearing a scarf to cover their masks? Starfield: Yeah, it feels like they're scared of masks.
商业人物：戴口罩真有被打的风险？星野：至于是不是真会被打，我觉得这是个概率问题。
Businessman: There's a real risk of being beaten with a mask? Starfield: As to whether it's really going to be hit, I think it's a matter of probability.
碰到某些人，你就有受伤的风险，所以还是保持警惕好。
If you meet someone, you are at risk of injury, so stay alert.
商业人物：药店和超市还正常吗？星野：除了口罩和消毒用品，别的超市里基本能买到。
Businessman: Are drugstores and supermarkets okay? Star Trek: Except for masks and disinfectant supplies, you can get them in supermarkets.
亚马逊上的ffp2口罩（欧标，等效N95）都10欧元一只了，之前大概2-3欧元。
Amazon's ffp2 mask (Equivalent N95) is now available for 10 euros each, before about 2-3 euros.
普通医用口罩一直缺货，药店解释是需要等待厂家从中国调货过来。
Common medical masks have been out of stock, pharmacies explained that the manufacturers need to wait for the transfer from China.
商业人物：其他店面呢？星野：曼托瓦暂时受影响不大。
Businessman: What about the other storefronts? Starfield: Mantova isn't affected much for the time being.
米兰的华人商店基本关门了，店主多为温州商人，他们包了一架飞机回中国。
The Chinese shops in Milan have largely closed, and the owners, mostly Wenzhou businessmen, have chartered a plane back to China.
武汉：后怕、焦虑与互相打气商业人物：圣诞假期回了武汉？星野：我12月22日到达武汉，元旦后1月6日返回意大利。
Wuhan: Fear, Anxiety and Mutual Encouragement Commercial figures returned to Wuhan during the Christmas vacation? Xingye: I arrived in Wuhan on December 22 and returned to Italy on January 6 after New Year's Day.
后来看到1月10日左右，有乘客在武汉天河机场转机时滞留俩钟头就感染了，我也有点后怕。
Later, around January 10, some passengers in Wuhan Tianhe airport transit on the two-hour stay on the infection, I was a bit afraid.
当时家里还讨论过“八名不明原因肺炎病人”的事。
The family also discussed the case of "eight patients with unexplained pneumonia."
爷爷是退休医生，妈妈也在从事相关医护工作，所以他们消息比较灵通。
Grandpa was a retired doctor, and his mother was also working on related medical care, so they were better informed.
那会儿家人还说，其实病毒肺炎就是会人传人，主要靠飞沫传播，让我去机场时戴上口罩。
At that time, the family also said that the virus pneumonia is actually person-to-person, mainly by foam spread, let me wear a mask when I go to the airport.
不过，他们自己也是在钟南山说存在人传人后才都戴上口罩。
However, they were wearing masks only after Zhong Nan Shan said there was a human-to-human transmission.
商业人物：去机场时戴了吗？星野：我在过安检前都戴了，后面就没戴，包括在飞机上。
Business Man: Did you wear it at the airport? Starfield: I wore it before I went through security, but I didn't wear it at the back, including on the plane.
商业人物：你之前是直接从意大利给家里寄口罩吗？星野：1月24日，我麻烦回国的同学先托运回去，然后再从她家以顺丰寄出。
Commercial persona: Did you send your masks directly from ItalyStarano: On January 24th, I asked my returning classmates to check in first and send them off from her home in Shunfeng.
整个过程4天左右，要直接寄的话得10天时间。
The whole process takes about 4 days, 10 days to send directly.
因为急用就选择了托运方式，100元/kg。
As a result of the urgent choice of shipping mode, 100 yuan / kg.
我寄了40只ffp2口罩，50片普通一次性医用口罩，一堆免洗消毒洗手液，算上顺丰运费其实比直邮要贵些。
I sent 40 ffp2 masks, 50 plain disposable medical masks, and a bunch of non-disinfectant hand sanitizers, which is more expensive than direct mail.
意大利邮寄服务太不走心，我不敢冒寄丢的风险。
The Italian mail service is too unwieldy for me to risk losing it.
商业人物：你从什么时间开始买口罩？星野：1月20日左右，我帮家人先在淘宝和京东下了一部分订单。
Commercial persona: When did you start buying masks? Starfield: Around January 20, I helped my family place some orders for Taobao and Jingdong.
早些时候还通过亚马逊购买的ffp2的3M口罩。
Earlier also bought through Amazon's ffp2 3M mask.
那会儿也有点晚，但当时武汉本地宣称的还是可防可控，不会人传人。
It was a bit late at the time, but what Wuhan claimed at the time was defensible and could not be passed from person to person.
哪怕爷爷是退休医生也大意了。
Even if Grandpa was a retired doctor, he was careless.
他18号还去医院买了降压药，结果第二天开药那位医生被确诊了。
He went to the hospital on the 18th to buy a blood pressure medication, and the doctor was diagnosed the next day.
爷爷一个人住，已经过了隔离期，未被感染。
Grandpa lives alone, has passed the quarantine period, has not been infected.
父母平时会送些肉、菜和防护用品过去。
Parents usually bring some meat, vegetables and protective equipment.
如今武汉小区封闭管理，最大问题就是生活物资。
Wuhan district now closed management, the biggest problem is living materials.
爷爷那儿暂时只能靠社区安排志愿者派送。
Grandpa had to rely on the community to arrange volunteer delivery for the time being.
有时真的很焦虑。
Sometimes I get really anxious.
可这个时候我也不在家，只能通过视频和家人相互打气，争取不给对方拖后腿，不然还要互相担心。
But this time I am also not at home, can only through video and family members to cheer each other up, try not to give each other back, otherwise have to worry about each other.
疫情与生活：“仓鼠”晒太阳商业人物：你囤粮了吗？星野：中国学生还挺仓鼠属性的。
Outbreak and life: hamster sunbathing commercial personage: Do you hoard grain? Xingye: Chinese students are quite hamster-like.
我囤了二十斤米、一冰箱肉、一堆苹果还有各种蔬菜以及各种利乐包装的果汁牛奶。
I'm hoarding twenty kilos of rice, a fridge of meat, a pile of apples and various kinds of vegetables, as well as various kinds of fruit juice milk.
大概三四天还是得出去买趟菜。
Maybe three or four days later I have to go shopping.
我手中还有50片ffp2，本打算往家寄一部分，还没来得及就全留给自己了。
I still have 50 ffp2 pieces in my hand, which I had intended to send home in part, and left to myself before I had time.
商业人物：关于这次疫情，学校如何安排？星野：学校教授在尝试通过网络教学弥补停课期间的空缺，尽管我觉得教学质量有待考验。
Business people: What about the epidemic? Starno: School professors are trying to make up for the hiatus by teaching online, although I think the quality of teaching has yet to be tested.
校方偏中立，在发言问题上比较慎重。
The school was neutral in its approach to speaking.
由于疫情影响滞留国内不能参加考试的学生，教授们会主动帮忙调整时间。
Since the outbreak affects students who are unable to take the exam in their home countries, professors offer to help adjust the time.
我还有一年才毕业，不会受到疫情影响。
I have a year left before I graduate, unaffected by the epidemic.
不过，我有个在澳洲留学的朋友，他困在了武汉，签证吹了，毕业典礼也泡汤了。
However, I have a friend who studied in Australia, he was stranded in Wuhan, visa canceled, graduation ceremony also ruined.
商业人物：留学生同学现在什么状态？星野：大家达成一致，任由意大利居民蹦迪泡吧、群居交友，我们只要不出门就是最安全的。
What is the status of the international studentsStarno: We agreed to let the Italian residents hang out and socialize, and we were the safest as long as we didn't go out.
好在曼托瓦地广人稀，我还可以在公寓的小院子里转悠一阵。
Luckily, Mantova is very sparsely populated, and I can hang out in the small yard of my apartment.
这是最大的慰藉。
This is the greatest consolation.
商业人物：自己写疫情日记的话，有一定要提下的事吗？星野：1月23日封城那天。
Businessman: If you write your own epidemic diary, do you have to mention something? Starno: On January 23, the day the city was closed.
因为很早就约好，父母来意大利和我一起过春节，然后去米兰、威尼斯和罗马旅行。
Because of the early appointment, my parents came to Italy to spend the Spring Festival with me, then to Milan, Venice and Rome.
父母8月订票，10月办签证，我11月定好了所有住宿和交通，结果家人出发当天正好封城，那时候就发觉不可控因素太强了。
My parents booked the tickets in August and the visas in October, and I booked all the accommodation and transportation in November. As a result, my family was closed for the day of departure.
看到确诊人数增加很难过。
It is sad to see the increase in confirmed cases.
感染人数太多，你会发现和有些人可能刚联系过，然后他就被确诊了。
The number of people infected is so high that you will find out that you may have been in touch with someone, and then he is diagnosed.
大概一周前，有位高中同学的父亲去世。
About a week ago, the father of a high school classmate died.
同学是个医生，父亲在医院接受了20天治疗还是没挺过来。
My classmate was a doctor and my father didn't make it through 20 days of treatment in the hospital.
这算是离我最近的死亡病例了。
This is my latest death.
商业人物：有没有什么开心的时刻？星野：开窗晒太阳，黑了也没关系。
Business Man: Are there any happy moments? Starfield: Sunshine through the window. It doesn't matter if it's dark.
*图片意大利官方疫情更新页面截图推荐阅读严正声明：“商业人物”所有原创文章，转载均须获授权。
2007-9-25 21: 48 Reproduction of all original articles by "business people" must be authorized.
一切形式非法转载，包括但不限于盗转、未获“商业人物”授权通过第三方转载行为，均属侵权行为，“商业人物”将公布“黑名单”并追究法律责任。
All forms of illegal reproduction, including, but not limited to, theft and unauthorized reprinting by a third party without the authorization of a "business person," who will publish the "blacklist" and will be held liable.
“商业人物”只愿与尊重知识产权的机构合作。
"Business people" are willing to cooperate only with institutions that respect intellectual property rights.
投稿、约访、合作，联系邮箱：bizleaders@qq.com添加微信biz-leader，获转载授权或邀您加入商友群微信名：商业人物微信ID：biz-leaders1.长按右侧二维码即可关注。
Subscriptions, interviews, collaborations, contact mailboxes: bizleaders @ qq.com, get permission to reprint, or invite you to join the microphone group of business people: micro-ID: biz-leaders1. Click on the two-dimensional code on the right.
2.期待您置顶与星标。
2. Expect you to place your top and star.
欢迎分享与评论，欢迎通过留言或私信方式给我们提供选题线索。
Welcome to share and comment, welcome to leave a message or private letter to us to provide clues to the topic.
3.点击“阅读原文”，看商业人物官网，获取更多精彩内容。
3. Click on "Read the original text" to see the official website of business people, to get more wonderful content.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉人在意大利：戴口罩有被打的风险。
Wuhan people in Italy: Wearing masks is at risk of being beaten.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "商业人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
var msg_title = "武汉人在意大利：戴口罩有被打的风险";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; Wuhan in Italy: & nbsp; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; wearing a mask.
var msg_desc = "2月28日去买肉，路上就我一个人戴了口罩。
var msg _ desc = & quot; I was alone when I went to buy meat on February 28.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '航空公司自救30天',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & &; & &; & & &;; & &; & & &;; & &; & & &;; &; &; & &; & &; &; & &; & &; & & &;.
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '8名高管、20多名员工滞留湖北，一家温州工厂的艰难复工',。
& # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '生活正在起变化',。
A: Life is changing & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & & quot; &.
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="商业人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
