疫情下的特殊网红。
The special net red under the epidemic situation.
西湖君。
West Lake Jun.
锌财经                      。
Zinc Finance.
锌财经。
Zinc Finance.
新商业的记录者，新经济的推动者。
Record-keeper of new business, promoter of new economy.
。
.
文/西湖君编辑/大风三台快递打单器在不停地吐出新单据。
Wen / West Lake Jun Editor / Gale Three express delivery singles are spewing out new documents.
十几分钟的时间里，来自全国的订单疯狂地涌进后台，地上已经堆满了好几层快递单据。
In a matter of minutes, orders from all over the country flooded the backstage with several layers of courier documents already on the floor.
站在打单器旁边的，是浙江衢州市市长汤飞帆。
Standing beside the unit is Tang Feifan, the mayor of Quzhou, Zhejiang Province.
而直播镜头的另一端，是53万拼多多用户。
At the other end of the footage, there are 530,000 subscribers.
成为网红的不仅仅有汤飞帆。
It's not just soup that makes the net red.
随着疫情的进行，滞销的农货产品也让农民的生活产生波动。
With the outbreak of disease, unmarketable agricultural products have also caused fluctuations in the lives of farmers.
为此，2月10日，拼多多正式上线“抗疫农货”专区，覆盖全国近400个农产区包括230多个国家级贫困县。
To this end, on February 10, the more formally put on line "anti-epidemic agricultural goods" zone, covering nearly 400 agricultural areas including more than 230 poverty-stricken counties at the national level.
而跟着浙江衢州椪柑、广东徐闻菠萝、广西荔浦砂糖橘还有海南保亭百香果一起进入5亿消费者视野的，还有广东徐闻县县长吴康秀、重庆开州区区长蒋牧宸等人。
Along with Quzhou Quzhou City, Guangdong Xu Wen Pineapple, Guangxi Lipu Sugar Orange and Hainan Pavilion BaoXiang fruit, Guangdong Xu Wen County County Governor Wu Kangxiu, Chongqing Kaizhou District Prefecture Zhenchen and others.
各地方官员，亲自带头，走进直播间为自家产品“吆喝”。
Local officials, taking the lead, walk into the studio and yell for their products.
一手抓防控，一手卖农货。
One hand at control, one hand selling farm goods.
滞销的农产品，也催生了2020年第一批“网红”的诞生。
Unmarketable agricultural products also gave birth to the first "net bonuses" in 2020.
特别的网红“自古以来，衢州就盛产柑橘，椪柑是其中的代表。
Special net red "Quzhou has been rich in citrus since ancient times, and highly cultivated citrus characters are representative of it.
”镜头的另一侧，是48岁的汤飞帆，手拿着半个被剥开的椪柑。
On the other side of the scene were 48-year-old Tang Flying Sails, highly skilled in handling highly flaked citrus.
在此前，作为浙江衢州的特色农产品。
Before this, as the characteristic agricultural products of Quzhou, Zhejiang Province.
椪柑不仅常年销往北京、上海等一线城市，甚至在加拿大、俄罗斯都可得见。
Perpeng are not only sold to first-tier cities such as Beijing and Shanghai, but are also commonly found in Canada and Russia.
而汤飞帆的主播试水，显然效果不错。
But the soup flying sail main water test, obviously the effect is good.
在一天不到的时间里，2万件订单、超过21万斤椪柑，被源源不绝地销往各地。
In less than a day, 20,000 orders and over 210,000 pounds of bergamot were continuously sold to various destinations.
在转型“主播”这条路上，同样取得不错成绩的，还有广东徐闻县县长吴康秀。
In the transformation of the "anchor" this road, also achieved good results, there is Xu Wenxian county magistrate Wu Kangxiu.
但不同的是，他直接化身成了“吃货主播”。
The difference, though, is that he incarnates himself directly into a "freeloader."
广东徐闻县菠萝在拼多多直播卖货（左图）订单在疯狂地涌入后台，两个小时内，菠萝售罄，新的货立马上架。
Pineapple sales in Xuwen County, Guangdong Province (left) orders in a frenzied influx of backstage, within two hours, Pineapple sold out, new goods immediately on shelves.
直播结束后吴康秀瞄了一眼后台的数据：4.6万单。
After the live broadcast Wu took a glance at the backstage data: 46,000.
实际上，在2月18号到19号两天的时间里，更多的产品纷纷走进拼多多“抗疫助农”的直播间。
In fact, February 18 to 19 in the two days, more products into the more "anti-epidemic farmers" broadcast studio.
脐橙、苹果、草莓等农产品，也在重庆开州区区长蒋牧宸、广西象州县委副书记韦涛带货下，打破了传统的线下渠道，乘着电商直播这股风飞出农村。
umbilical cord orange, apple, strawberry and other agricultural products, also in Chongqing Kaizhou District Governor Jiang Zhenchen, Guangxi Xiangzhou County Committee Deputy Secretary Wei Tao goods, broke the traditional offline channels and flew out of the countryside on live TV commercial airwaves.
拼多多的后台数据显示，短短两天时间里，透过直播带货的方式，各地特色农产品日销量达到了100万斤。
A lot of backstage data show that in just two days, through live delivery of goods, the daily sales of characteristic agricultural products reached 1 million jin.
与之相对的，是每场直播的观看人数均不低于十万。
In contrast, there are no fewer than 100,000 viewers per live broadcast.
电商直播这场火，给疫情下的偏远山区，带来了一丝火种。
The live broadcast of the fire by electric merchants brought a spark to the remote mountainous areas of the epidemic.
两手抓不可否认的是，此次疫情对各个地方政府，都是一场不小的考验。
There is no denying that this outbreak of local governments, are no small test.
一方面，他们需要管控疫情预防工作；另一方面，他们还要解决农产品的滞销问题。
On the one hand, they need to control disease prevention; on the other, they need to tackle the problem of unmarketable agricultural products.
早在2月21号，山东寿光集团就与拼多多进行了签约，助推寿光的蔬菜入驻拼多多集团并开设旗舰店。
As early as February 21, Shandong Shouguang Group signed a contract with Duoduo to help push Shouguang vegetables into the Group and open flagship stores.
在寿光市政府的组织协调下，拼多多将负责提供技术研发、品牌打造、市场营销等新电商技能培训，通过改造升级当地的农产品供应链，共建蔬菜数字化上行机制。
Under the coordination of Shouguang Municipal Government, more efforts will be made to provide technical research and development, brand building, marketing and other new electric business skills training, upgrading local agricultural product supply chain, building digital uplifting mechanism of vegetables.
除了对农产品的数字化改造升级，更当下的需求，也得到了解决。
In addition to upgrading the digital transformation of agricultural products, more immediate needs have also been addressed.
直播预热图春节以来，城市餐厅、菜场在内的渠道，进一步被收缩，农产品出现大量滞销。
Since the Spring Festival live preheating chart, urban restaurants, vegetable farms and other channels, further contraction, agricultural products appear a lot of unmarketable.
拼多多新农业农村研究院副院长狄拉克表示，尽管“抗疫助农”已经覆盖全国近400个农产区，但依旧有不少滞销的农产品急需解决。
Dillack, vice-dean of Duando New Agricultural and Rural Research Institute, said that while the program already covers nearly 400 agricultural areas across the country, there are still a lot of unmarketable agricultural products that need to be urgently addressed.
在这样的情况下。
In such circumstances.
5位官员亲自上阵，在拼多多的直播间，为自己的产品“卖起了吆喝”。
Five officials appeared in person and "shouted" for their products in a crowded studio.
早在2月19日下午5点，广东徐闻县县长吴康秀率先现身拼多多直播间，晚上9点，衢州市市长汤飞帆也出现在镜头前，两人均展现了惊人的带货能力。
As early as 5: 00 p.m. on February 19, Wu Kangxiu, the county chief of Xuwen County of Guangdong Province, appeared at 9: 00 pm with Tang Feifan, the mayor of Quzhou, at 9: 00 pm. Both of them showed amazing ability to carry goods.
拼多多的数据显示，在当天的两场直播中，共产生6.6万张订单（近7万），46万斤滞销的水果被售空。
In two live broadcasts of the day, 66,000 orders (nearly 70,000) were placed and 460,000 pounds of unsold fruit were sold short, according to numerous statistics.
而在未来，还将有更多政府相关部门和领导，将在拼多多直播卖货。
And in the future, there will be more relevant government departments and leaders, will do more live selling.
电商直播新模式几年来，凭借独特的商业模式，拼多多已经成长为国内第二大、如今已有5.3亿用户在拼的电商巨头。
In recent years, thanks to its unique business model, Broadcast has grown into the country's second-largest electronics giant, with 530 million subscribers.
而地方官员成为主播，看起来很“性感”。
And the local official becomes the host, looks very "sexy".
但实际上，正是拼多多在传统电商直播的老路中，走出了一条以货为核心，农户和政府领导一起出镜的模式。
But in fact, it is more in the traditional way of live TV commercial, out of a core of goods, farmers and government leaders together to show the model.
长期以来，农产品滞销是一个“老大难”的问题。
For a long time, agricultural products unmarketable is a "long-standing" problem.
受制于传统线下渠道，每到收获季，滞销、难销的新闻，都不绝于耳。
Subject to the traditional offline channels, every harvest season, unsold, hard-to-sell news, not to mention.
2020年中央一号文件更是提出，扩大电子商务进农村覆盖面，加强村级电商服务站点建设，推动农产品进城。
In 2020, the central government document No. 1 proposed to expand the coverage of e-commerce in rural areas, strengthen village-level electronic commerce service stations, and promote the entry of agricultural products into cities.
而作为农产品起家的新电商平台，拼多多借助“拼团”的新模式，建立起了“天网”“地网”的系统性农产品供需匹配机制。
As a new electric business platform from which agricultural products began, the new mode of "Jiggling" has been used to set up a systematic matching mechanism between supply and demand of agricultural products.
2019年平台农产品成交额达到1364亿元人民币，成为国内最大的农产品平台。
In 2019, the turnover of agricultural products reached 136.4 billion yuan, making it the largest agricultural platform in China.
值得一提的是，此次各个地方官员展现惊人带货能力的同时，也验证了拼多多以货为核心，农户和政府领导共出镜模式的成功。
It is worth mentioning that the various local officials displayed amazing ability to carry goods, but also verified the success of the more goods-centered, farmers and government leaders in the mirror mode.
一个最明显的例子是，在直播间，官员对农产品的优势信手拈来。
One of the most obvious examples of this is the fact that in the studios, officials "advantage over agricultural products is readily apparent.
“衢州是‘中国椪柑之乡’，元旦至春节前后，是最佳食用期。
Quzhou is the "Country of Chinese Peng Curcuma" for its excellent edible period from New Year's Day to Spring Festival.
由于汁多味浓、肉质脆嫩，椪柑的价格比当地其他柑桔品种高出40%~60%”，在直播间里，衢州市市长汤飞帆如此介绍道。
Quzhou City Mayor Tang Feifan offers highly concentrated juices and crisp meat, which makes highly attractive crops 40% ~ 60% higher than other local citrus varieties.
甚至连食谱的科普都如数家珍。
Even the science of recipes is plentiful.
“除了直接吃，还可以做菜——菠萝咕咾肉、菠萝鸡片、菠萝饭、菠萝酸奶冰糕、凤梨酥，甚至还包括了网络流行吃法‘蘸酱油”。
"In addition to eating them directly, you can cook them - pineapple gravy, pineapple chicken fillets, pineapple rice, pineapple yogurt ice cream, pineapple pastry, pineapple pastry, even dabbing in soy sauce.
变身“吃货主播”的广东徐闻县县长吴康秀，在直播间大谈特谈特色菠萝的做法。
"Eat the owner multicast" Guangdong Xu Wenxian county magistrate Wu Kangxiu, in the studio talk about the special pineapple practice.
这也引得观众纷纷下单。
This also caused the audience to order.
截至2月23日，通过拼多多“抗疫助农”专区销售的滞销农产品已经超过130万单，初级农产品销售了2000多万斤。
By February 23, more than 1.3 million agricultural products had been sold in the "anti-epidemic" areas, and more than 20 million jin had been sold in agricultural commodities.
崛起于下沉市场的拼多多，如今正在以新的方式反哺这片市场。
Rise in the sinking of the market, is now feeding the market in new ways.
燃眉之急事实上，随着疫情的延续，首当其冲遭遇影响的就是农户。
In fact, as the epidemic continues, it is farmers who will bear the brunt of the epidemic.
作为海南省澄迈县的一名瓜农，王林芬第一次发现，海南桥头地瓜居然滞销了。
As a Guana farmer in Chengmei County, Hainan Province, Wang Lin Fen first discovered that the Hainan bridge gourd actually unsold.
“以往春节期间每天可以卖200吨，今年最好的一天，只卖出300多公斤”。
"We used to sell 200 tons a day during the Spring Festival, but on the best day of the year we sold just over 300 kilograms."
而追根溯源，是批发市场在疫情之后纷纷关停。
And the root cause is the wholesale market after the epidemic closed.
传统的流通环节中最重要的一环，断了。
The most important link in the traditional chain of circulation is broken.
而看着堆着满地的地瓜，王林芬第一次睡不着觉。
Watching the piles of melon, Wang Linfen couldn't sleep for the first time.
同样睡不着觉的，还有云南的王耀忠。
Also unable to sleep, there are Yunnan Wang Yiaozhong.
几年前大学毕业后，他和朋友创建了一支12人的电商创业团队，几番寻觅后，建水紫皮洋葱也成了他们的主营产品。
After graduating from college a few years ago, he and his friends founded a 12-person electric business startup team, and after several searches, Jianshui Purple Onion became their main product.
但受疫情影响，原本该在春节进入畅销的洋葱也惨遭重创。
But the onions, which were supposed to sell well during the Spring Festival, were also badly hurt by the outbreak.
央视新闻联合拼多多全程参与直播“批发市场不开市，收购商进不来。
CCTV News participated in the full live broadcast "Wholesale markets do not open, buyers can not enter.
再卖不出去，就只能烂在地里，烂在仓库里”，王耀忠回忆道，这种情况比去年3月番茄因滞销腐烂在田间，有过之而无不及。
If you can't sell any more, you'll rot in the field and rot in the warehouse, "recalls Wang, more so than tomatoes rot in the fields last March.
而根据红河州商业局副局长蔡云飞的估计，受损农户过百户。
According to estimates by Cai Yunfei, deputy director of Honghe State Commerce Bureau, more than 100 households were damaged.
而随着拼多多上线“抗疫开拼，爱心助农”专区，燃眉之急很快得到了解决。
And with the more on-line "anti-epidemic fight, love to help farmers" area, the immediate problem was quickly solved.
在第一时间联系了拼多多之后，王林芬的地瓜在10号当天就卖了2000多单。
In the first contact with more than a lot of time, Wang Lin Fen's melon in the day of the sale of more than 2,000 single.
“到了12号，已经卖掉了8.6吨，第一批下单的地瓜已打包装箱完”，王林芬说。
"By the 12th, 8.6 tons had been sold, and the first orders had been packed," Wang said.
而在店铺做了两小时直播后，王耀忠就卖出了一万斤洋葱。
After two hours of live coverage of the store, Wang sold ten thousand kilos of onions.
“到2月12号，卖掉了22.2吨紫皮洋葱，仓库终于又忙碌起来了。
By February 12, 22.2 tons of purple onions had been sold, and the warehouse was finally busy.
”事实上，不论是拼多多的抗疫助农举措，还是官员的轮番上阵，都实实在在帮农民解决了燃眉之急。
Indeed, both the laborious anti-epidemic agricultural initiatives and the rotation of officials have helped farmers meet their immediate needs.
除此之外，在疫情期间，拼多多还针对商户推出了10亿补贴、多重减负诸多措施，为滞销的农产品，打开了全新的销路。
In addition, during the epidemic, more than a billion subsidies and multiple burden-reduction measures were introduced for merchants, opening up new outlets for unmarketable agricultural products.
作为国内领跑的电商平台，拼多多用直播电商的新模式，再次反哺下沉市场，为其构建了五环外电商市场的血液和神经网络，更承担了一个大企业的社会责任。
As a leading domestic electric business platform, we put together a new mode of direct-broadcast business, feeding the market again, building up the blood and neural network of the five-ring foreign-owned enterprise market, and assuming the social responsibility of a large enterprise.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情下的特殊网红。
The special net red under the epidemic situation.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "锌财经";。
Var nickname = & quot; zinc finance & quot;;
var msg_title = "疫情下的特殊网红";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; special net at & quot; with the epidemic.
var msg_desc = "2020年第一批“主播”的诞生。
var msg _ desc = & quot; the birth of its first "anchors" in 2020.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="锌财经";。
Var title = & quot; Zinc & Finance & quot;;
