生死农贸市场。
Life and death farmers market.
姜璇。
Jiang Xuan.
中国新闻周刊                      。
China News Weekly.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
这里是《中国新闻周刊》掌门周刊君，影响有影响力的你。
This is the head of China News Weekly magazine, the influence of influential you.
和我一起拨开迷雾，追寻真相，守望时代。
Join me as we move through the fog, seek the truth and keep watch.
。
.
全国还有多少个华南海鲜市场？农贸市场是否还有存在的必要？1月27日，武汉华南海鲜市场西区的一处商户门前，工作人员正在抓捕一只逃跑的大鲵(娃娃鱼)。
A giant salamander, a giant salamander, was caught in front of a shop in the western part of Wuhan's South China seafood market on January 27.
摄影/长江日报 陈卓生死农贸市场本刊记者/姜璇发于2020.3.2总第937期《中国新闻周刊》2020年是武汉市国家卫生城市的复审年。
Photography / Changjiang Daily Chen Zhuo Life and Death Farmers Market Journalist / Jiang Xuan Published in 2020.3.2 General No. 937 China News Weekly 2020 is the review year of Wuhan National Health City.
1月16日，武汉市迎来了国家卫健委规划司组织的调研团。
January 16, Wuhan City ushered in the National Health Commission planning department organized a survey mission.
这个调研团赴武汉调研的重点内容是，了解城乡环境卫生综合整治、市场环境卫生整治及病媒生物防制等工作。
The focus of the investigation mission to Wuhan is to understand the comprehensive improvement of urban and rural environmental health, market environmental hygiene control and vector control.
彼时的武汉华南海鲜批发市场已经处于风口浪尖。
At that time Wuhan South China Seafood Wholesale Market was already at the tip of the wind.
2019年12月31日，武汉卫健委通报出现27例新冠肺炎病例的当天，《中国新闻周刊》曾探访华南海鲜市场。
On December 31, 2019, Wuhan Health Committee reported 27 cases of New Crown Pneumonia, China News Weekly visited the South China seafood market.
华南海鲜市场地处武汉闹市区，与汉口火车站仅相距一公里，分东西两区，有600多家商户，是个开业多年一直传言即将拆迁的老市场，直到2020年元旦，这个市场才休市整顿。
Located in downtown Wuhan, just one kilometer from Hankou Railway Station, the South China seafood market, with more than 600 merchants in the east and west, is an old market that has been rumored to be under demolition for many years.
疫情发生后，不少人担忧全国还有多少个华南海鲜市场？在商超、便利店以及生鲜电商等新型业态持续出现的今天，农贸市场是否还有存在的必要？现实是，在中国数万亿的生鲜交易市场，农贸市场仍是居民的主要生鲜消费渠道，占比超过七成。
In the wake of the outbreak, many people are worried about how many seafood markets there are in China.With the appearance of new industries such as supermarkets, convenience stores and fresh electricity merchants, there is still a need for farmers' market to exist.
“由于地方各级政府的认识不同，农贸市场在规划上不到位，再加上市场主体开放以后，有国有企业、有私营企业还有个人承包，造成了管理上的困难。
"Because of the different understanding of local governments at all levels, farmers' markets are not in place in terms of planning, and after the opening up of the main market, there are state-owned enterprises, private enterprises and individual contractors, which causes difficulties in management.
”世界批发市场联合会主席、全国城市农贸中心联合会会长马增俊分析认为，对市场的管理方、经营者都要建立严格的市场准入和退出机制，农贸市场建设始终是一项民生工程，需要与城市的发展相协调。
Ma Zengjun, president of the World Federation of Wholesale Markets and President of the National Federation of Urban Agricultural and Trade Centres, believes that strict market access and exit mechanisms should be established for market managers and operators.
调研卫生城市国家卫健委规划司的调研团在武汉停留了两三天。
The investigation team of the Planning Department of the National Health Commission of Health City stayed in Wuhan for two or three days.
此时，距离武汉华南海鲜批发市场休市整顿已经过去了两周。
At this point, Wuhan from the South China seafood wholesale market has been closed for two weeks.
1月19日，武汉市市长周先旺主持召开市政府常务会议，研究部署武汉市农贸市场（菜市场）标准化改造工作。
On January 19, the mayor of Wuhan, Zhou Xianwang, presided over an executive meeting of the municipal government to study the standardization and transformation of Wuhan Farmers' Market.
“大战100天，完成全市400家农贸市场提档升级工作”，这是当时的工作目标。
"World War 100 days, the completion of the city's 400 farmers market upgrade work," this was the goal of the work.
实际上，这400家农贸市场是解决市民生鲜需求的主要渠道，占比达到70％-80％。
In fact, these 400 farmers' markets are the main channel for meeting the fresh needs of the public, accounting for 70-80 per cent of the total.
作为舆论揣测疫情诱发焦点之一的位于武汉市二环边上的华南海鲜批发市场，距离汉口火车站不到一千米，周边商圈密集，市场总建筑面积有5万平方米，东西两区共有1000余个摊位，其中西区部分摊位存在活禽、兽类等野生动物交易。
The South China Seafood Wholesale Market, located on the edge of Wuhan Second Ring Road, is located on the edge of Wuhan city. It is less than one kilometer away from Hankou Railway Station.
武汉封城后，中心城区农贸市场几乎全部关闭，大量的零售需求都必须依靠商超来解决。
Wuhan after the closure of the city, the central city farmers almost all the market closed, a large number of retail demand must rely on business to solve.
一位不愿具名的随行专家向《中国新闻周刊》透露，“当时对疫情的判断还没有那么严重，农贸市场是卫生城市复检的必检单位，前后走访了汉口、武昌的八个市场，当时已经封闭的华南海鲜市场，是一个兼有批发和零售的综合市场，有水产，还有存在一些活禽、野生动物交易。
"At the time, the judgment of the epidemic was not so serious," an accompanying expert, who declined to be named, told China News Weekly. "The farmers' market was a necessary inspection unit for re-inspection of healthy cities, visiting eight markets in Hankou and Wuchang.
”根据2019年9月武汉市市场监督管理局发布的野生动物市场专项整治活动相关信息，在华南海鲜市场有近8家商户可以合法经营野生动物，包括售卖虎斑蛙、蛇、刺猬等。
According to information released in September 2019 by the Wuhan Municipal Market Supervision Authority on the campaign to regulate the wildlife market, nearly eight businesses in the South China seafood market can legally handle wild animals, including tiger frog, snake and hedgehog.
该海鲜市场在媒体的不断探访后被爆出，存在没有办理经营或养殖许可证、没有经过正规检疫部门监测等诸多非法经营的情况。
The seafood market was exposed after repeated visits by the media and there were numerous illegal operations without operating or farming permits and without monitoring by the formal quarantine authorities.
“目前可以合法交易的野生动物很少，所以一般是商家在市场里捎带着卖的模式，只要是经过审批的合法的交易，市场不会做过多的干预。
"There are very few wildlife that can be legally traded at the moment, so it is generally the market that carries the selling pattern, and as long as it is a legal transaction that has been approved, the market does not interfere much.
目前对哪类农贸市场可以进行交易，还没有明确的规定。
At present, there are no clear rules as to which farmers' markets can be traded.
”即使普通的标准化的市场，对市场内部的装修、卫生都有要求，长期研究农贸市场规划发展的新沃资本董事长朱灿告诉《中国新闻周刊》，“一般蔬菜水果和肉类要分开设置，对于水产和禽类这种容易产生异味的都要求独立分区，包括污水的排放也要单独排放”。
Even with the standard market, which requires interior decoration and sanitation, Zhu Can, chairman of Novo Capital, a long-term researcher on the planning and development of farmers' markets, told China News Weekly. "Vegetable fruits and meat should be set apart, and separate zones are required for unpleasant odors like aquaculture and poultry, including sewage emissions.
几个农贸市场走下来，上述专家向《中国新闻周刊》透露，“总体感觉武汉的农贸市场管理水准不高，比如有些市场存在私搭乱建等，与其他省份城市对比，市场的发展建设、管理水平有一定的距离。
"There is a general feeling that Wuhan farmers' market management standards are not high, such as the existence of unauthorized construction in some markets, compared with other provinces and cities, the market development, construction, management level has a certain distance.
一般简单评判一个市场的标准，通俗直观感觉主要是看“六面一秤”——门面、场面、地面、台面、墙面、脸面和智能电子秤”。
Generally a simple assessment of a market standard, popular intuitive feeling is to see "six-sided scale" - facade, scene, ground, table, wall, face and intelligent electronic scales.
争议“农改超”作为农贸市场具有公共服务功能，在城市规划中是社会机理的组成部分。
As a public service function of the farmers' market, the controversy of "agricultural reform and overhauling" is an integral part of social mechanism in urban planning.
“这些遍布城乡的农副产品交换的重要场所，建设的比较早，普遍存在设施简陋、管理粗放、监管不力等问题。
"These are important sites for the exchange of agricultural and sideline products in both urban and rural areas.
”朱灿分析说。
"said Zhu.
实际上，负责居民饭桌的农贸市场，一直是中国大小城市的标配。
In fact, the farmers' market, which is responsible for the table, has always been the standard in China.
星罗棋布的农贸市场，如同针线般将附近居民的生活编织在一起，成为城市、乡村共同生活体的一部分。
Scattered farmers' market, like a needle and thread will be the lives of the nearby residents woven together, a part of the city, rural community.
这些农贸市场大多充当“菜篮子”“米袋子”，与普通人的一日三餐打交道。
Most of these farmers' markets serve as "vegetable baskets" or "rice bags," dealing with the average person's three meals a day.
“早期都是国有菜场，到改革开放以后农贸市场主要解决两个问题，一是城市的蔬菜供应，二是农民工进城的就业。
"Early state-owned vegetable farms, to the reform and opening up of the farmers market mainly to solve two problems, one is the urban vegetable supply, the other is migrant workers into the city employment.
这期间，政府把农贸市场作为居民区建设的配套措施，管理上是政府主导，统一规划、各自经营，相对投入是比较少的，也不是企业化或者集团化运作的模式。
During this period, the Government took the farmers' market as a supporting measure for the construction of residential areas. The government took the lead in management.
”永辉超市董秘张经仪说道。
Yonghui supermarket secretary Zhang Jingyi said.
改革开放后，中国开始减少统购统销和限售的品种和数量，农贸市场和传统农副产品市场得以恢复和发展。
After the reform and opening up, China began to reduce the variety and quantity of uniform purchase and sale, and the farmers' market and traditional agricultural and sideline products market were revived and developed.
彼时，钢棚市场凭借简易低廉的造价和遮风挡雨，可固定经营、每日不受天气影响稳定出摊等优势，迅速深入全国大小城镇。
At that time, the steel shed market with simple and low cost and shelter, can be fixed operation, daily weather-free stability of the spread of the advantages, quickly into large and small towns throughout the country.
现有的大多数农贸市场，雏形可以回溯至1988年开始的国家“菜篮子工程”，这项民生工程的初衷是缓解上世纪80年代出现的农副产品供应偏紧和物价上涨过快的矛盾。
Most of the existing farmers' markets date back to the 1988 national "food basket project," a livelihood project designed to ease the 1980s supply of agricultural and sideline products and excessive price increases.
“这一时期，产、销地批发市场开始大规模外迁整合，实现集团化运作，农户——产、销地批发市场——农贸市场——消费者的农副产业流通模式，影响至今。
"During this period, wholesale markets of production and marketing began to integrate large-scale outmigration and realize collectivization operation. The mode of circulation of agricultural and sideline industries of farmers - wholesale markets of production and marketing - consumers has had an impact to this day.
”朱灿说。
'said Chu.
但随后，农贸市场成为城市化进程中“脏乱差”的代表，而在决策者眼中，小型化、连锁化、超市化被认为是更“高级”的城市副食供应业态，是一种企业行为。
But then, the farmers' market became the representative of the "dirty mess" in the process of urbanization, while miniaturization, chain-linking and supermarkets were regarded as more "advanced" urban by-products supply patterns and corporate behavior.
因而，21世纪初，加快建设超市、便利店、社区菜站的意见和清退农贸市场的决定，同时出现在决策者的案头。
Thus, at the beginning of the 21st century, the opinions of building supermarkets, convenience stores, community food stations and the decision to eliminate farmers' markets were speeded up and appeared in the desks of decision makers.
2000年左右，以福州模式为典型代表“农改超”在福州获得一些成功后，开始在全国范围落地。
Around 2000, Fuzhou model as a typical representative of the "agricultural reform" in Fuzhou after some success, began to land nationwide.
地方各级政府积极主导推动“农改超”，一方面是为了改善市容市貌，更重要的是政府希望以连锁企业的自我约束力，解决食品安全问题。
Local governments at all levels are actively leading the drive to "reform and overhauls," both to improve the appearance of the city and, more importantly, to address food safety issues through self-regulation by chain enterprises.
“早期做‘农改超’的时候，大概有三种模式——一种模式是就地改造升级，把原农贸市场拆了重建超市；一种是在农贸市场周边建超市，通过市场竞争，让农贸市场自然退出；还有一种是直接新建超市，这三种比例基本上各占三分之一。
"There were probably three models in the early days of 'overhauling' - one involving in-situ upgrading and dismantling of former farmers' markets to rebuild supermarkets; the other building supermarkets around farmers' markets and allowing farmers' markets to exit naturally through market competition; and direct construction of new supermarkets, about one-third each.
”张经仪说道。
"said Zhang.
“农改超”进入全国实际运作后，种种困难接踵而至。
After the "transformation of agriculture into the actual operation of the country, a variety of difficulties followed.
“上海有800多家农贸市场，我们和上海国盛集团合作近5年时间，也只改造了30多家。
"There are more than 800 farmers' markets in Shanghai, and we have been working with the Shanghai Group for nearly five years and have transformed only more than 30.
重庆改造的第一家农贸市场，当时有400多个小业主，前后大概做了两年的时间。
Chongqing's first farmers' market, there were more than 400 small owners, around two years before and after the time.
”张经仪解释道，老的农贸市场物业条件差、规模小，改造的投资成本非常高。
Zhang explained that property conditions in the old farmers' market were poor and small, and the investment cost of renovation was very high.
同等面积相比，“农改超”比新建生鲜超市成本要高出20％至30％。
Compared with the same area, the cost of overhauling a farm is 20 to 30 percent higher than the cost of a new supermarket.
轰轰烈烈的“农改超”经历两年多运作进入调整期，同时国内学术圈在2003年对全国各地运动式开展“农改超”，表达了种种担忧，如：超市如何像农贸市场满足多样化的农产品需求；经营生鲜产品风险大，超市一旦遇到风险会不会放弃不经营鲜活产品而改做其他等等。
At the same time, in 2003, the academic circles in China expressed various worries about how supermarkets could meet the diversified demand for agricultural products like farmers' markets, and whether supermarkets would give up selling live products and do other things when they faced risks.
转型标准化在引发各方争议之后，“农改超”在各地举步维艰，政策转向鼓励过渡式的“农加超”（农贸市场中增设超市），渐进改变农贸市场经营业态。
After sparking disputes among the parties, the "transformation of agriculture and supermarkets" has faltered everywhere, and the policy has shifted to encouraging the transition to "agriculture and supermarkets" (adding supermarkets to farmers' markets) and gradually changing the management pattern of farmers' markets.
2009 年商务部、财政部联合下发《商务部、财政部关于实施标准化菜市场示范工程的通知》，标准化菜市场成为全国农贸市场转型的主要形态，迅速在全国铺开。
In 2009, the Ministry of Commerce and the Ministry of Finance jointly issued the Notice of the Ministry of Commerce and the Ministry of Finance on the Implementation of the Standardized Halles Market Demonstration Project.
由于种种制约因素的存在，农贸市场的发展显著落后于商超、社区菜场等新型业态，且生鲜电商的出现又替代了部分对农贸市场的需求，农贸市场是否还有存在的必要？数据给出的答案是肯定的。
As a result of various constraints, the development of farmers' market lags significantly behind that of commercial and community food markets, and the emergence of new electric merchants has replaced some of the demand for farmers' markets.
2019年，中国生鲜零售额突破两万亿元规模，根据招商证券2019年4月《菜市场行业深度报告》数据，传统农贸市场依然是国内居民购买生鲜的主要渠道，占比约73％。
In 2019, China's fresh retail sales topped 2 trillion yuan, and traditional farmers' markets remain the main channel for domestic residents to buy fresh produce, accounting for about 73 per cent, according to the Hallmark Report of April 2019 on China Merchants Securities.
超市渠道占比 22％，为第二大渠道。
Supermarket channels accounted for 22 per cent, the second largest channel.
目前生鲜消费被电商渠道分流的并不多，线上渠道占比约 3％。
Fresh consumption is currently shunned by the electric business channel is not much, the online channel accounts for about 3%.
这些遍布城乡解决着居民一日三餐的农贸市场，短期内难以被其他业态替代。
These are scattered throughout the rural and urban areas to solve three meals a day farmers market, short-term difficult to be replaced by other industries.
根据国家统计局数据统计的在亿元以上农贸市场的数量，2018年农贸市场数量总计为1664个，单经营某一类农产品的农贸市场数量就有853个，涉及到的市场摊位数达到469951个。
According to statistics from the National Bureau of Statistics, the number of farmers' market in 2018 was 1,664, with 853 farmers' markets dealing in one type of agricultural products alone and 469,951 market stalls involved.
北京交通大学建筑与艺术学院副教授盛强，一直在追踪北京菜市场的变化。
Shengqiang, an associate professor at the School of Architecture and Art at Beijing Jiaotong University, has been tracking changes in Beijing's Halles market.
从2005年的博士论文开始，几乎每隔五年就对北京三环内的菜市场进行地毯式的调研。
Beginning with the doctoral thesis in 2005, a carpet survey of the Hallucinogenic Market in the Three Rings of Beijing is carried out almost every five years.
盛强最直观的感受是，菜市场实际的摊位数是在减少的，市场会自发进行一些调整，比如摊位合并增加经营面积，提升经营的环境档次等等。
Shengqiang's most intuitive feeling is that the actual number of stalls in the Halles market is decreasing, the market will make some spontaneous adjustments, such as the consolidation of booths to increase the operating area, upgrade the environmental level of business, and so on.
在他看来，无论政策导向如何，对于农贸市场的需求始终都会存在。
In his view, regardless of the policy orientation, the demand for farmers' markets will always exist.
“适合做菜市场还是超市，是由市场本身的客观规律决定的，从建筑和规划的角度来讲，还会再加上一个维度——位置，它所在的位置是什么级别的交通，比较适合做哪类业态”。
It is determined by the objective laws of the market itself, and from the architectural and planning point of view, there will be a dimension - the location, the level of traffic, the type of business more suitable to do.
上世纪五六十年代，美国一些大城市也曾出现过菜市场“沙漠化”的现象——政府部门出台政策限制菜市场发展，城市菜市场大面积关停。
In the 1950s and 1960s there was also a phenomenon of desertification in some large cities in the United States - government departments issued policies restricting the development of the Halles market and the closure of large areas of the city's markets.
后来一些地区的公共空间管理组织经过调研后决定，重新在城市的公共空间恢复设立菜市场。
Subsequently, public space management organizations in a number of regions decided, after research, to re-establish the Hallucinomarket in urban public spaces.
而瑞士伯尔尼联邦大厦前的广场，如果没有特别的选举活动，每周会有两次变身为自由市场，来自全国各地乃至邻邦的小贩们，在此摆摊搭棚买卖产品。
In the square in front of the Federal Building in Bern, Switzerland, the free market is transformed twice a week into a free market where vendors from different parts of the country and even neighbouring countries set up stalls to trade products.
对比国外的发展经验，马增俊认为，相比超市、社区菜店，农贸市场确实管理起来更加困难，但消费者对农贸市场的需求不容忽视。
Comparing with the overseas development experience, Ma Zenjun thinks that the farmer market is more difficult to manage than the supermarket and the community food store, but the consumer demand for the farmers' market cannot be ignored.
在他看来，首要解决的是规划问题，“由于地方各级政府对菜市场的认识不同，导致规划上不到位，需要根据社区的情况，确定农贸市场的合理密度”。
In his view, the primary problem was one of planning, "since local governments do not have the same understanding of the Halles market, which leads to poor planning, there is a need to determine the reasonable density of the market according to the situation of the community."
在城市规划中，对城市公共设施的控制指标被称为“千人指标”，反映到菜市场上就是每千人能够配多少平方米的菜市场。
In urban planning, the control of urban public facilities is known as the "thousands of indicators," reflecting the number of square meters of vegetable market per 1,000 people can be reflected in the Hallmark.
这个指标在各地有所差异，例如北京市的菜市场配置标准为每千人配置50平方米菜市场，上海市的指标是每千人配置120平方米菜市场。
This indicator varies from place to place. For example, the allocation standard of Halles market in Beijing is 50 square meters per thousand people, and Shanghai's target is 120 square meters per thousand people.
指标用来判定空间分布的合理性，问题的关键在于理论上成立的指标能否落地。
Indicators are used to determine the rationality of spatial distribution. The key to the problem is whether the theoretically established indicators can land.
“现有合理合法的商业用地往往位于街区边界的城市级道路沿线，这些位置在今天的城市经济格局下盈利潜力较高，而菜市场这种便民性商业则盈利较低，并不适合分布在这些区域。
"Existing legitimate commercial land is often located along city-level roads along the boundaries of neighbourhoods, with higher profit potential in today's urban economy, while easy-to-use commerce such as the Halles is less profitable and not suitable for distribution in these areas.
”盛强告诉《中国新闻周刊》，根据当代的市场规律调整用地规划才是合理的途径，否则即便有指标控制，实施也有难度，强行实施造成的也是用地资源的浪费。
"Sheng Qiang told China News Weekly that adjusting land-use planning according to contemporary market laws was the only reasonable way to do so, because otherwise it would be difficult to implement even if indicators were controlled and enforcement would result in waste of land resources.
亟待升级《中国新闻周刊》在采访中了解到，目前农贸市场的产权相对分散，市场管理方有国有、私营的企业、街道社区，也有个人作为管理方，“重收轻管”的现象普遍存在。
In an interview with China News Weekly, it became clear that property rights in the farmers' market are relatively scattered, with state-owned and private enterprises, street communities and individuals acting as managers.
杭州对农贸市场的改造最为重视也是起步最早的城市之一，在杭州一鸿市场研究咨询有限公司董事长吴刚看来，农贸市场的改造是一项系统工程，分硬件和软件两部分，全国农贸市场或多或少都在改进硬件，最直观的就是环境有所提升，只不过是各个市场的资金投入和力度有所区别。
According to Wu Gang, chairman of Hangzhou Yihong Market Research and Consulting Co. Ltd., the transformation of the farmers' market is a systematic project, which includes hardware and software.
“决定一个市场改得好不好，符不符合需求，关键是看软件，比如要依靠软件实现智慧化运营，实现对市场里的食品安全、消防安全问题管理，包括建立台账、产品的溯源等等。
"The key to determining whether a market is changing well or not is to look at software, such as software to achieve intelligent operation, to achieve food safety, fire safety issues in the market management, including the establishment of accounts, product traceability, and so on.
”吴刚说，“关键是在前期对市场做系统的调研和定位，如何提升商户的品牌优质化、管理的系统化，或者对商户约束不到位，招商效果不好，都会影响后期的效果。
"The key is to conduct systematic research and positioning of the market in the early stages, how to improve the quality of merchants' brands, systematize management, or whether the constraints on merchants are not in place and the effect of investment promotion is not good," Wu said.
”疫情发生后，朱灿曾撰文呼吁对农贸市场的智能化、标准化改造。
"After the outbreak of the epidemic, Zhu wrote an article calling for the intelligent, standardized transformation of farmers' markets.
他观察到，因此次疫情特殊，农贸市场在面对蔬菜配送需求的情况下，更多地是使用电话、微信等方式来实现线下需求的初级线上化，暴露出了农贸市场线上能力不足的短板。
He observed that because of the special epidemic, farmers' market in the face of vegetable distribution needs, more use of telephone, micro-mail and other means to achieve online demand on the primary line, exposed the capacity of farmers market insufficient board.
“在市场内部管理中通过云计算、物联网、互联网等现代技术的创新应用，以智慧化、数字化，技术化、标准化方式改造传统农贸市场，在销售环节应打通线上线下经营渠道，积极发展网上交易和物流配送。
"Through the innovative application of modern technologies such as cloud computing, the Internet of Things and the Internet, the internal management of the market, the transformation of traditional farmers' markets in a smart, digitized, technical and standardized manner should be carried out through the on-line and offline business channels in the marketing links, actively developing online transactions and logistics distribution.
新型农贸市场应当与电商及配送平台建立合作，建立直供直销、网上订购、连锁配送等模式。
The new farmers' market shall establish cooperation with electric merchants and distribution platforms to establish direct direct selling, on-line ordering and chain distribution models.
”朱灿建议。
"Can you suggest?
马增俊考察了荷兰鹿特丹缤纷菜市场发现，在世界大都市成功运作的这个农产品市场，其建设和运营模式对中国城市的农产品市场建设发展具有借鉴意义。
Ma Zengjun inspects the market in Rotterdam, the Netherlands, and finds that the successful operation of this agricultural market in the world metropolis, its construction and operation mode can be used for reference to the development of agricultural product market in Chinese cities.
鹿特丹缤纷菜市场在功能上将停车场、公寓及菜市场三者合一建设，融合旅游、休闲、购物、餐饮等多元业态，虽是城市综合体，但菜市场的营运成本却不高。
Rotterdam Riotous Halles Market combines the functions of car park, apartment and vegetable market. It integrates tourism, leisure, shopping and catering. Although it is an urban complex, the operating cost of the Hallmark market is not high.
马增俊认为，对于农贸市场而言，更重要是的是实现功能的提升，与城市的发展相融合。
Ma Zengjun thinks, to farmer trade market, more important is to realize function promotion, with the development of city merge.
这些标志性的农贸市场，折射出一座城市的形态和风土人情，成为一座城市文化的窗口，像日本的筑地、杭州的红石板、厦门的八市等。
These iconic farmers' markets, reflecting the shape and customs of a city, have become a window on urban culture, such as Tsukiji in Japan, red slate in Hangzhou, eight cities in Xiamen, etc.
值班编辑：冯超封面报道《新冠病毒——我们要付出多大代价》《围城之战——我们如何过关》《武汉攻坚——我们如何与疫情赛跑》《防控之辨——我们怎样科学应对》点击下图，一键下单教你赚35000元奖励+1%佣金恒大网上卖房，2000元定套房，赚高额奖励，78折特大优惠，点击赚钱点击“阅读原文”了解更多详情 。
On duty editor: Feng Chao covers "New Crown Virus - How We Pay" "The War of Siege - How We Go Through" "Wuhan Jianzheng - How We Run Against the Outbreak" Click on the figure below to teach you how to compete with the epidemic.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
生死农贸市场。
Life and death farmers market.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "中国新闻周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "生死农贸市场";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "全国还有多少个华南海鲜市场？农贸市场是否还有存在的必要？";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; How many South China seafood markets does the country have? Was there a need for a farmers' market?;
var title ="中国新闻周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by China News & quot;
