富士康最难最贵“复工季”：北上广深部分中介获得返费高达17000元。
Foxconn the most difficult and most expensive "back to work season": the north part of the intermediary to get a refund of up to 17,000 yuan.
中国经营报                      。
China Business News.
中国经营报。
China Business News.
与中国企业同步成长，对话商业领袖，传播商业理想，服务商业人群，《中国经营报》掌控中国商界绝对话语权。
Growing in step with Chinese companies, dialogue with business leaders, spreading business ideals, serving the business community, The China Business Administration controls the absolute voice of the Chinese business community.
。
.
The following article comes from 等深线。
The following article comes from the bathymetric line.
Author 蒋李超程陈郝。
Author Jiang Li exceeds Hao Chen.
等深线。
Bathymetric line.
深度报道。
In-depth coverage.
中国经营报《等深线》记者 蒋政 李超 程维 陈佳岚 郝嘉奇 郑州、烟台、重庆、太原报道在富士康工作了10余年的崔永强（化名），直至2月27日，还没有结束今年的春节假期。
Bathymetric Line reporter Jiang Zheng Li Chaocheng Chen Jia Lan Hao Garcia Zhengzhou, Yantai, Chongqing, Taiyuan report Cui Yongqiang (alias) who has worked in Foxconn for more than 10 years until February 27, this year's Spring Festival has not ended.
因为新冠肺炎疫情，按照公司要求，他老家所处的区域，仍未被纳入返岗之序。
As a result of the outbreak of pneumonia, according to the company's requirements, his home region, is still not included in the order of return.
早前，富士康宣布钟南山出任其防疫复工总顾问。
Earlier, Foxconn announced Zhong Nan Shan as its Chief Pandemic Prevention Adviser.
若在往年，郑州港区富士康周边，早应车水马龙。
If in previous years, Zhengzhou port area around Foxconn, should be full of traffic.
但《等深线》（ID：depthpaper）记者核实，2月24日，这个占地2000亩、最多拥有过30万名员工的园区里，46个餐厅只开了24个，当天午餐刷卡16423人次。
But a 2, 000-acre campus with up to 300,000 employees opened only 24 restaurants and had 16,423 lunch cards for the day, according to ID: depthpaperer.
所有人，被要求保持一米距离。
Everyone, they're asked to stay one meter away.
但3天后的27日，郑州富士康有生产线开启了夜班。
But 3 days later on the 27th, Foxconn Zhengzhou has a production line to open the night shift.
加快复工节奏的，被认为是早前宣布的“撒钱”措施——在多地，富士康向招聘中介开出5000元至7500元的返费，以及给员工疫情补贴等，以促进招聘。
Accelerating the pace of return to work is thought to be an earlier announcement of "throwing money" - in many places, Foxconn is offering refunds ranging from $5,000 to $7,500 to recruitment agencies, as well as subsidizing staff outbreaks to promote recruitment.
在重庆，政府还会再额外给招工中介2000元返费。
In Chongqing, the government will pay another 2,000 yuan back to the recruitment agency.
招工条件，也出现了“史上首次”突破。
Recruitment conditions, there has been a "history of the first" breakthrough.
但效果似乎仍待增强。
But the impact still seems to be improving.
太原富士康人事部门工作人员向记者确认，即使去年辞职离开，现在再次入职，也可以享受出勤90天6000多元的新入职奖励。
Personnel staff at Foxconn, Taiyuan, confirmed to reporters that even if they quit last year and are now on board again, they will receive a 90-day attendance bonus of more than 6,000 yuan.
他称，虽然已经实现日招千人，但缺口仍在。
He said that although a thousand people have been recruited each day, the gap remains.
崔永强可能没有意识到，这是这家全球代工制造业巨无霸，所面临“最难”、“最贵”的一个复工季。
Cui may not realize that this is the world's largest contract manufacturing giant, facing the "most difficult" and "most expensive" return to work season.
在这个复工季中，钱甚至都不是最重要的问题，比钱更重要的是时间和人，而“钱”并不能迅速解决“时间和人”的问题。
Money is not even the most important issue in this back-to-work season. What matters more than money is time and people, and money doesn't solve "time and people" problems quickly.
尽管很多工人，都盼望返岗，尽管很多年轻人，愿意去富士康工作。
Although many workers are looking forward to returning to work, many young people are willing to work in Foxconn.
年前返工意愿调查高达80%的烟台富士康，也正在面临着尴尬，现在人数刚刚过半。
Foxconn, which surveyed 80% of Yantai Foxconn about 80% a year ago, is also facing embarrassment, and is now just over half that number.
在日本某著名品牌的新订单压力下，已经启动更简单直接的办法——奖金发给那些招来新人的老员工。
Under the pressure of a new order from a well-known Japanese brand, a simpler and more straightforward method has been launched - bonuses are given to older workers who recruit new talent.
总体而言，多种奖励措施下，新增员工多为就近而来，数量并未出现暴增，对于外界分析的订单违约压力，截至记者发稿，富士康方面未作回应。
Overall, a variety of incentives, most of the new staff came close to the number of no surge in the number of external analysis of the default pressure, as of the reporters, Foxconn did not respond.
但有所在地政府人员向记者透露，从员工到岗情况看，富士康能否追得上新接订单，是个挑战。
But a local government official told reporters, from the staff to the job situation, whether Foxconn can catch up with the new orders, is a challenge.
这是一个昂贵的“复工季”而当富士康面对几乎是有史以来“最贵”，也”最难”的一个复工季节时，整个中国制造业应该看到的问题是，除了如富士康一般的大型制造业企业，如此昂贵的复工，是否是任何一家制造业都可以随意承受的？“最昂贵”的复工相比于其他企业，富士康旗帜鲜明地表态，要撒钱招人来。
When Foxconn faces a return to work season that is almost the most expensive and the hardest ever, the question for the entire Chinese manufacturing industry should be whether any manufacturing industry can afford such a costly return to work, except for a big manufacturing company like Foxconn, which is clearly demanding money than others.
且撒钱的形式和对象也足够多样化。
And the forms and objects of the money spread are sufficiently diverse.
2000元到7000元不等的多档金额，总有一款适合新老员工，或者招工中介。
For multi-grade amounts ranging from 2,000 yuan to 7,000 yuan, there is always one suitable for old and new employees, or recruitment agency.
但崔永强暂时拿不到这笔钱。
But Cui won't get the money for the time being.
这位老员工在家待得发慌，他准备自驾返回郑州，先自行在家隔离，随时准备上岗，结束自己工作史上最漫长的这个春节假期。
Anxious to stay at home, the old worker was ready to drive home to Zhengzhou, isolate himself and get ready for work, ending one of the longest Spring Festival holidays in his career.
2月21日，“富士康iDPBG郑州普工招募”认证官方公号称，iDPBG （integrated Digital Product Business Group数位产品事业群）2～14级的在职员工，若在2月29日前已上岗出勤，或在2月29日前虽未上岗出勤但返回厂区所在地、且于3月18日前上岗出勤的员工，在职满60天，奖励3250元，在职满90天，再奖2000元。
Feb. 21, "Foxconn iDPBG Zhengzhou universal labor recruitment" certification official said that iDPG (integrated Digital Product Business Group digital products business group) 2-14 employees who had been on duty before February 29, but not on duty before February 29, but returned to the factory site before March 18, reward $3,250 after 60 days of service and $2,000 after 90 days of service.
据了解，在此之前，上述员工的返岗激励奖金是3000元每人。
It is understood that before the return of the above-mentioned employees incentive bonus of 3,000 yuan per person.
郑州富士康员工正在就餐。
Foxconn employees in Zhengzhou are eating.
《等深线》记者 蒋政 摄影与崔永强面临一样处境的富士康老员工还很多。
"Bathymetric Line" reporter Jiang Zheng photography and Cui Yongqiang face the same situation of the old Foxconn staff are still many.
早前，郑州富士康根据河南各区疫情程度，划分出高、一般、低三级风险区，后来划分区域又略有调整。
Earlier, Zhengzhou Foxconn according to the degree of epidemic situation in Henan, divided into high, general, low-level risk areas, and later the division of the region slightly adjusted.
据此，高风险区员工复工需要提供居家隔离14天证明、承诺书与健康证明，一般风险区员工复工需要提供承诺书与健康证明，低风险区提供承诺书后可以直接入职。
Accordingly, workers returning to work in high-risk areas are required to provide a 14-day home segregation certificate, a statement of commitment and a health certificate, an undertaking and a health certificate for staff returning to work in a general risk area, and a letter of commitment from a low-risk area for direct onboarding.
崔永强所在的，是河南高风险区。
Cui Yongqiang is located in the high-risk area of Henan.
抛开健康证明和隔离，承诺书则要在富士康内部的APP“爱口袋”上签，内容主要是承诺无发烧、无接触武汉人员等。
Aside from medical certificates and isolation, the Deed of Commitment is signed on an APP "love pocket" inside Foxconn, which promises no fever, no contact with Wuhan people, etc.
烟台富士康也在鼓励老员工及时返岗，当地政策是，老员工在2月底之前工作满10天，奖励一个月工资；在2月底之前上班天数在5至10天，奖励半个月工资。
Yantai Foxconn is also encouraging older workers to return to work in a timely manner. The local policy is to reward older workers with 10 days of service before the end of February, and 5 to 10 days of work before the end of February, rewarding half a month's salary.
对于来自不同地区的员工，烟台富士康执行不同的隔离政策，从省外返岗在宿舍隔离14天方可上岗，山东省内返岗在宿舍隔离7天方可上岗，烟台市内返岗在宿舍隔离3天后即可上岗。
For employees from different regions, Yantai Foxconn implemented different isolation policy, from the province back to work in the dormitory isolation for 14 days, Shandong Province back to work in the dormitory isolation for 7 days, Yantai City back to work in the dormitory isolation 3 days after the induction.
隔离期间，工资照发，有工人笑称“躺着就能挣钱”。
During the segregation, wages are paid and some workers laugh that "you can make money while lying."
太原富士康iDPBG一名员工也证实，虽然复工有所推迟，但工资是照常发。
An employee at Foxconi DPBG in Taiyuan also confirmed that wages were paid as usual, although the resumption of work was delayed.
太原富士康人力部门工作人员告诉记者，2月24日至3月31日期间入职的员工，出勤90天可得到6250元奖金。
Staff at Foxconn, Taiyuan, told reporters that employees who entered the company between February 24 and March 31 were paid a bonus of $6,250 for 90 days.
政策下，每天能招募到1000人左右，但还是不够。
Under the policy, about 1,000 people can be recruited every day, but that is not enough.
他还透露，太原厂区现有员工7万人左右，截至2月26日已有3万人返岗复工，其余将陆续复工。
The plant, which employs about 70,000 people, had returned to work as of February 26, he said, with the rest returning to work.
记者询问，如果去年辞工今年重新进厂，是否属于新员工。
Reporter asked, if last year resigned from the factory this year, whether belong to the new staff.
他表示这种情况属于新员工，可以得到奖金。
He said the situation belonged to new employees and could be rewarded with bonuses.
但老员工有限，富士康的用工特点，似乎更需要招新来迅速实现复工。
But the limited number of old staff, Foxconn's characteristics of employment, seems to need to recruit new workers quickly to resume work.
招新，则需要大力依靠中介进行。
Recruiting, need to rely heavily on the intermediary.
一家人力资源企业的张华（化名）告诉《等深线》记者，郑州富士康2月10日开始复工，2月16日开始招人，目前劳务代理从企业拿到的返费已经涨到了7500元，前置条件则是员工入职要满3个月。
Zhang Hua (not his real name), a human resources company, told Bathymetric Line that Foxconn, Zhengzhou, started work on February 10 and began recruiting on February 16.
按照小时计算，工价为25元/小时，中介抽成2元，工人实得23元/小时，张华认为，这也明显是超出往年的极高标准。
At 25 yuan an hour by the hour, 2 yuan by the middleman and 23 yuan an hour by the worker, Zhang said, clearly exceeding the very high standards of previous years.
一度尴尬的是，按照国务院的要求，2月10日复工前，张华公司所在的大楼还曾被封闭过，如今，张华所在的公司也只复工了一半，业务员均在一线服务，但其他部门人员只是线上复工。
Once awkwardly, Zhang Hua's building had been closed before it resumed work on February 10, at the State Department's behest, and Zhang's company is now only half-staffed, with sales staff on the front line but others just returning to work online.
撒钱还在加码，或者说，更大可能是，中介与富士康另有约定，在这个约定下，双方更加追求到岗数量的迅速增长和人员的相对稳定。
Spending is still on the rise, or, more likely, the agency has agreed with Foxconn that the two sides will pursue a rapid increase in the number of jobs and relative stability.
2月29日19时，郑州港区富士康的员工开始上夜班，该厂区位于郑州新郑综合保税区内。
February 29 19: 00, the Zhengzhou Port District Foxconn staff began to work at night, the factory area in Zhengzhou Xinzheng comprehensive bonded area.
《等深线》记者 蒋政 摄影信广达人力资源服务有限公司面对员工的招募政策显示，港区富士康IDPBG事业群2月21日一次性返费政策是打卡满55天，在职大于90天可以得到6000元返费。
Bathymetric Line reporter Jiang Zheng Guangda Human Resources Service Co. Ltd. face the recruitment policy of staff, the port area Foxconn IDPBG business group on February 21 a one-time return policy is 55 days card, more than 90 days in office can get 6000 yuan back.
到了2月28日，该公司招募政策分为两种模式：模式一为员工一次性返费7000元，打卡满35天，且在职大于60天发放3300元，打卡满55天，且在职大于90天再发放3700元。
By February 28, the company's recruitment policy was divided into two models: model one, a one-time return fee of $7,000 for employees, 35 days for card printing and $3,300 for 60 days or more in service and 55 days for those with more than 90 days of service.
模式二为小时工模式，合计每小时23元，每月7日发工资。
The second model is hourly mode, totalling $23 per hour with 7 days' pay per month.
撒钱的数额明显增长了。
The amount of money dispensed increased markedly.
但这样的返费，远不是最高，一家为某知名电脑生产商招工的中介信息显示，返费高达15000元，且特别强调工人做工时都是坐着的。
But the rebate, far from the highest, came from a recruitment agency for a well-known computer maker, which reported a return fee of 15,000 yuan, with a strong emphasis on workers sitting at work.
而中介行业人士称，现在更高的返费是17000元！一位人力资源有限公司负责人向《等深线》记者表示，他所在的区域，若向郑州富士康输送派遣工，员工在职满90天、打卡满55天，即可获得派遣费（返费）7000元。
A director of a human resources company told Bathymetric Line that his region, which sends workers to Foxconn in Zhengzhou for 90 days and 55 days for cards, would receive a dispatch fee of 7,000 yuan (refunds).
“各区域派遣费还稍有不同，但上下也就差个200块钱左右。
"There is a slight difference between regions, but it's about 200 yuan up and down.
相对来讲，这个派遣费算是比较高的。
Relatively speaking, the contribution fee is relatively high.
”此时，似乎依靠人口大省建厂的优势开始凸显。
At this point, it seems, the advantage of building a factory in a populous province begins to loom large.
但烟台富士康可没有这么乐观，抛开给中介的返费，为了鼓励老员工推荐新员工，奖励已经从800元涨到1600元，目前的最高奖励则是2200元。
But Foxconn isn't so sanguine. Instead of paying the agency a rebate, the reward has risen from 800 yuan to 1,600 yuan to encourage older workers to recommend new employees.
同样，郑州港区富士康也有类似奖励。
Similarly, Foxconn in Zhengzhou Port District has similar awards.
郑州富士康的一份内部文件显示，返岗出勤者，除了正常薪资及加班费，同时享有出勤激励奖金60元每人每天。
People returning to work are entitled to an attendance incentive bonus of 60 yuan per person per day, in addition to regular pay and overtime, an internal Zhengzhou Foxconn report.
因故无法返岗者，可优先安排年休假，不足可安排专案事假。
For reasons of inability to return to work, annual leave may be given priority, not enough to arrange for ad hoc leave.
在郑州富士康，前述官方公号提到，通过自荐、离职返聘、内部推荐等渠道入职的新员工，只要满足在职满90天，最高均可获得5250元的奖励。
In Foxconn, Zhengzhou, the above-mentioned official communiqué mentioned that new employees who enter the company through self-referral, reemployment, internal referral, etc. will be rewarded with a maximum of $5,250 if they have served for 90 days.
“中介自己有的都难以完全复工，依靠中介，可能真不如依靠老员工，他能回来上班，他就能带人来，这是一个更实际的办法，尤其在更重视乡土、传统的中原地区。
"It is difficult for the intermediary to get back to work completely, depending on the intermediary, it may be better to rely on the old employee, he can bring people back to work, which is a more practical approach, especially in the more vernacular, traditional Central Plains.
”2月29日，北京某人力资源负责人告诉《等深线》记者。
On February 29, a human resources official in Beijing told Bathymetric Line.
该负责人进一步确认，北上广深部分中介获得返费高达17000元是真实存在的，但中介招新的速度，与返费很难说成正比。
The person in charge further confirmed that the north part of the intermediary fee of 17000 yuan is a real existence, but the intermediary recruitment speed, and return fees can hardly be directly proportional.
“春节期间，你看到的还是一个传统、乡土，甚至保守的社会，中介的作用有限，不要高估了。
"During the Spring Festival, you still see a traditional, local, even conservative society, the intermediary role is limited, do not overestimate.
尤其是在大家究竟怎么看疫情问题上。
Especially when it comes to how we see the epidemic.
”当然，烟台富士康还给入职新员工第一个月200元奖励，此外，截至今年5月底新入职员工享受餐补（每天12元）。
Foxconn, of course, also gives new hires a 200-yuan bonus for their first month on the job, plus 12 yuan a day as of the end of May.
“最难”的返岗是什么推高了富士康复工的“代价”，在最简单的供求关系里便可以找到答案。
The "hardest" return to work is what drove Foxconn back to work at a "price" that can be found in the simplest supply-and-demand relationship.
《等深线》记者在多地采访的情况表明，推高富士康“复工人力资源价格”的，恰恰是上岗劳动力的相对匮乏，而这就与新冠肺炎疫情以来，一系列的防控手段有关，这其中既包括对劳动力流动的限制，也包括对开工条件的要求而导致的承接人力资源硬件能力带来的限制。
Interviews with Bathymetric reporters have shown that Foxconn's "return to work human resources prices" have been driven up by a relative shortage of labor, which has been linked to a range of controls since the outbreak, from restrictions on labor mobility to restrictions on access to human-resources hardware due to requirements for working conditions.
记者了解到，至少在当下，日招千人，已经是富士康能拿出的较好成绩了。
Reporters learned that, at least in the present, a thousand people a day, is Foxconn can come up with better results.
如果想要更多人，似乎与金钱无关，而是需要时间。
If you want more people, it seems it's not about money, it's about time.
已经入职的郑州富士康员工张青林（化名）告诉《等深线》记者，员工隔离期间，一间宿舍住一个人。
Zhengzhou Foxconn employee Zhang Qinglin (alias) told "Bathymetric Line" reporter, during staff isolation, a dormitory to live a person.
现在宿舍不够了，疫情防控政策调整前，就不再让需要隔离的员工返岗了。
There are not enough dormitories, the disease control policy before the adjustment, no longer need to isolate the staff back to work.
疫情防控的空间还在持续调整。
The space for disease control continues to evolve.
《等深线》记者获悉，最新调整后的区域划分，河南高风险区由之前的包括郑州在内的16个市、县（省直管县）下辖的53个区、县，调整为：7个市、县（省直管县）下辖的14个区、县的员工不能返岗。
"Bathymetric Line" reporter learned that the latest adjustment of the regional division, Henan high-risk areas from the previous 16 cities and counties (Zhengzhou) under the jurisdiction of 53 districts and counties, to: 7 cities and counties (prefectures) under the jurisdiction of 14 districts and counties can not return to work.
《等深线》记者核实，在2月24日，共有46个餐厅的郑州港区富士康，开业24个餐厅，当日午餐刷卡16423人次，为先行隔离区人员送餐6734人次。
On February 24, Foxconn, the 46-restaurant Zhengzhou Port District, opened 24 restaurants with 16,423 lunch cards and 6,734 meals for the people in the former zone of separation, according to Bathymetric Line reporters.
需要注意的是，因特殊时期餐厅就餐流程烦琐，有大量员工选择自行解决午餐。
It is important to note that due to the cumbersome restaurant dining process at special times, a large number of employees choose to solve their own lunch.
另有知情人士透露，郑州富士康在厂区周边地区，近日新招募人数有六七千人左右。
Other people familiar with the matter said that Zhengzhou Foxconn in the vicinity of the factory area, the recent recruitment of about 6,000 people.
这与烟台富士康招新人数接近——日招千人。
This and Yantai Foxconn recruitment close to - a thousand people a day.
2月27日，在中板检查工作的张丽丽告诉《等深线》记者，这一天，郑州港区富士康她所在的生产线开启夜班，夜班的工作时间大致分为两种。
On Feb. 27, Zhang Lili, who worked on a mid-board inspection, told Bathline that the company's production line in Zhengzhou Port opened its night shift, which is roughly divided into two categories.
一种是19﹕30～04﹕30，如果加班，就延长至06﹕30。
One is 19: 30 ~ 04: 30, and if overtime is done, it is extended to 06: 30.
另一种是20﹕00～05﹕00，如果加班，延长至早07﹕00。
The other is 20: 00 ~ 05: 00, and if overtime is extended to 07: 00 am.
“其实我早回到烟台了，但是因为有孩子，去上班就要住到单位，虽然奖励诱惑很大，为了安全和孩子，我并没有第一时间去上班。
"I actually got back to Yantai long ago, but because of the children, I had to live in the workplace. Although the incentive was very tempting, I didn't go to work first for the sake of safety and children.
”烟台富士康一位不愿具名的老员工称。
An old employee at Foxconn in Yantai, who declined to be named, said.
足见，政策之外，员工究竟如何权衡这些奖励，也是重要因素。
Clearly, how employees weigh these rewards against policies is also an important factor.
当然，即使你很愿意返岗，实际情况的限制也不少。
Of course, even if you are willing to return to work, the actual situation is quite limited.
河南省洛阳市宜阳县相关人士提到，当地组织外出务工人员返岗时，除了一路体温检测和消毒，大巴内被要求隔位入座，客座率只能控制50%以内。
Officials in Yiyang County, Luoyang province, Henan province, noted that when local workers returned from work, the bus was asked to be seated next to each other except for temperature tests and disinfection.
“我们这里一个镇上组织的大巴，车后两排还设置了应急区域，就是为了应对途中有人员出现不适症状，可做隔离观察。
"We have a town bus here, with emergency areas in the back and two rows of cars, to deal with people on the way to the symptoms, can be isolated observation.
”“烟台富士康通过自己开发的系统软件显示，年前在岗员工的返岗意愿为80%以上，但有相当一部分因为各种原因还未返厂，现在（2月27日）返厂人数过万人。
"Foxconn's self-developed software showed that more than 80 percent of employees returned to work last year, but a significant number had not returned for various reasons, and more than 10,000 people are now returning.
”烟台当地政府人士透露，“但是最近接到了某知名品牌电子产品新订单，如果根据订单（所有订单）生产总共用工人数超过3万人，因此目前缺口较大。
"But we have recently received a new order for electronics from a well-known brand," said Yantai local government sources.
”优先策略在人力资源昂贵，甚至仍不能得到彻底解决的时候，在有限的人工和产能之间，优先哪些订单，便是富士康需要选择的问题。
The priority strategy is a matter of choosing between limited manpower and production capacity at a time when human resources are expensive or not yet fully addressed.
这关乎到这家全球代工制造业巨无霸的业务结构，以及未来的命运。
What is at stake is the structure of the global contract manufacturing powerhouse and its future fate.
崔永强估算，河南省内因地处疫区困在家中不能返岗的老员工，人数比例应在总员工的35%左右。
Cui Yongqiang estimated that in Henan province, the proportion of old workers trapped in their homes and unable to return to work should be around 35% of the total staff.
“郑州港区富士康员工高峰期有30万人左右，平时也至少有15万人。
"Zhengzhou port area Foxconn employee peak of about 300,000 people, usually at least 150,000 people.
”《等深线》记者核实，郑州港区富士康在2月25日和26日，午餐刷卡数量从24日的16423人次，分别升至20800人次和23009人次。
The Bathymetric Chart reporter verified that Foxconn in the port area of Zhengzhou increased the number of lunch cards from 16,423 on February 24 to 20,800 and 23,009 respectively.
这一数字，与隔离结束后方返岗储量“释放”有关，也与各个条线开动机器有关。
This figure, with the end of isolation after the return to the reserves of "release", but also with the operation of various line machines.
崔永强透露，目前复工的员工，是按照各个生产线上的不同工序复工。
Cui Yongqiang revealed that the current workers are returning to work in accordance with the various production lines on the different processes.
“好比有50个工序，按生产顺序不同，按需求按比例慢慢来复工。
"It would be like having 50 operations, going back to work at a slower pace, according to demand, according to the order of production.
但复工的都是非疫区的人。
But those who return to work are from non-endemic areas.
”实际操作过程中，不可控因素仍然存在。
In practice, uncontrollable elements remain.
员工返岗后调岗的情况并不少见。
It is not uncommon for staff to be transferred back to work.
一位年前入职一个月的员工，在2月25日复工入职后，被通知在工作岗位上进行了调整，具体工作内容还待定。
An employee who took office a month ago was told on Feb. 25 that he had made changes to his job to be determined.
更多的人力资源向制造环节倾斜。
More human resources are tilted to the manufacturing chain.
张青林所在的小组被安排支援手机制造组装。
Zhang Qinglin's team was assigned to support mobile phone manufacturing and assembly.
“现在员工都是优先制造安排。
"Employees are now making the priority arrangements.
”他说。
'he said.
同时，手机制造组装岗位的工作时间也更加长一些。
At the same time, mobile phone manufacturing assembly jobs also work longer hours.
张青林告诉《等深线》记者，制造环节的员工目前是每天正常上班8个小时，再加班3个小时，连着上13天后可以休息一天。
Zhang Qinglin told Bathymetric News that workers in the manufacturing sector now work eight hours a day, three more hours a day and a day off after 13 days.
目前，富士康科技集团在郑州有3个厂区，分别是郑州航空港厂区、经开区厂区、中牟县厂区。
At present, Foxconn Technology Group has three factories in Zhengzhou, namely Zhengzhou Airport Area, Kaesong Factory Area and Zhongmoxian Factory Area.
港区富士康规模最大。
Foxconn is the largest port area.
2019年，河南省手机出口2183.1亿元，是当地第一大出口单项商品。
In 2019, Henan Province exported 21.831 billion yuan in mobile phones, the largest single export commodity there.
其中，大部分是从港区富士康厂区流出。
Most of them flow out of the Foxconn factory district.
对于公司业务是否会受影响，崔永强似乎信心十足。
Cui seems confident that the company's business will be affected.
他认为，即使往年，春节后也属于产能低落期，并且都有库存。
Even in previous years, he says, the Spring Festival is a period of low capacity, and all have inventories.
只要条件允许，产能扩充很快。
Capacity expands rapidly as conditions permit.
以目前的情况来看，只要人到位，10天内就能轻松达到高峰期产能。
As things stand, peak capacity can easily be reached within 10 days, provided people are in place.
但关键依然是人，尤其是分布在具体生产环节上的人。
But the key remains people, especially those who are distributed along specific production lines.
重庆富士康的几位工人告诉《等深线》记者，该厂已于2月24日开始分批接工人返厂，不过，因为人员仍未到位等原因，已经返厂的工人虽在上班，但“暂时没有事情做，耍”。
Several workers in Foxconn, Chongqing, told Bathymetric Line that the plant had started returning workers in batches on February 24, but workers who had returned to work were "temporarily idle, juggling" for reasons including lack of personnel.
富士康在渝工厂位于重庆西永综合保税区内，下班时间，门口进出人员稀少。
Foxconn in Chongqing factory located in Chongqing Xiyong comprehensive bonded area, off-duty, the door entry and exit personnel are scarce.
《等深线》记者 程维 摄影除了钱，招聘的条件也在进一步放开。
Bathymetric News reporter Cheng Wei photography in addition to money, recruitment conditions are also further liberalized.
在张华的印象里，原来郑州富士康都不开小时工的，张华告诉记者，2019年底才开始招小时工，原因是年底属于产能旺季人难招，才开了小时工，那时候员工小时工21元/小时，现在工时一下子都涨到了23元/小时。
Zhang's impression, the original Zhengzhou Foxconn can not open the small-time workers, Zhang told reporters, the end of 2019 began to recruit small-time workers, because the end of the year in the peak capacity season, when the staff hours of 21 yuan per hour, now suddenly rose to 23 yuan per hour.
张华认为，疫情之下，供需不足，工厂薪资提高了，但这也是特殊时期下的正常情况。
'There is a shortage of supply and demand, factory salaries have risen, but this is a normal situation during special periods, 'Mr. Zhang said.
在2月25日时下班时分，持续20分钟航拍中，富士康重庆厂区内，罕有人员走动及车辆移动。
At close of business on February 25, the Foxconn Chongqing factory area, the 20-minute aerial photography, rarely moving people and vehicles.
《等深线》记者 程维 摄影相比于中原地区的返工动力，建厂时宣传将拥有6万名员工的重庆富士康，显得体量较小，且由于主要生产笔记本电脑，其复工节奏似乎更加沉稳一些。
"Bathymetric" reporter Cheng Wei's photography compared to the Central Plains of the rework power, when the factory will promote the 60, 000 employees of Chongqing Foxconn, a smaller, and mainly production of laptop computers, its return to work seems a little more steady.
2月25日傍晚，一位返工工人告诉《等深线》记者，富士康在渝工厂采用了分期分批返厂的方式，先接回附近的工人，再接相对较远的工人。
On the evening of February 25, a rework worker told the Bathymetric Line that Foxconn was returning to the factory in stages, first to pick up nearby workers and then more distant ones.
这位重庆富士康的工人透露，2月24日返厂的工人为30人，25日返厂1300人。
The Foxconn worker in Chongqing said 30 workers returned to the factory on Feb. 24 and 1,300 on Feb. 25.
该工厂春节前正常开工的工人数量为11000人左右。
About 11,000 workers were working in the factory before the Spring Festival.
2010年5月投产的重庆富士康，拥有年产2000万台笔记本电脑及配件的产能。
Foxconn, which went into production in May 2010, has the capacity to produce 20m laptops and accessories a year.
“从产业上说，电子时代的手机，更像快消品，市场的高需求，决定了违约风险极大。
"In industrial terms, mobile phones in the electronic age, more like fast disappearing goods, the market high demand, decided the default risk is extremely high.
而笔记本电脑，市场需求决定了其违约风险小很多。
And laptop, market demand determines its default risk is much less.
如果你能够把富士康当前复工程度做个排行，你放心，肯定和市场需求度完全一致。
If you can rank Foxconn's current level of return to work, you can rest assured that the market demand is exactly the same.
”北京某知名笔记本电脑厂商销售条线负责人告诉《等深线》记者。
A well-known notebook manufacturer in Beijing is in charge of sales of line told Bathymetric Line reporters.
作为全球最大的代工厂，近年来，随着人力成本的提高，代工利润逐渐稀薄一直是鸿海集团（富士康母公司）的心病。
In recent years, as labour costs have risen, the thinning of contract profits has been a worry for Hon Hai Group, the parent company of Foxconn.
此外，随着智能手机市场增速不断下滑，鸿海的主营业务手机代工业务不断承压，鸿海也希望将这家iPhone代工厂转变成一家多元化的公司。
Hon Hai is also hoping to turn the iPhone into a diversified company as the smartphone market slows and Hon Hai's main mobile-phone-contract business is under pressure.
从2002年开始，鸿海一直谋求业务转型，包括联合IBM进军环保和云计算，进入医疗市场、收购夏普面板、进军存储芯片市场等一系列动作。
Since 2002, Hon Hai has sought to transform its business, from joining IBM's foray into environmental protection and cloud computing to entering the health-care market, buying Sharp panels and tapping into the memory chip market.
尽管如此，为苹果代工仍是富士康（鸿海子公司）的重要一块业务。
Still, working for Apple is an important part of Foxconn's business.
苹果订单在富士康集团业绩中占到相当大的比重。
Apple's orders account for a significant portion of Foxconn's results.
天风证券分析师郭明錤透露，受此次疫情影响，苹果已经下调2020年第一季度iPhone的出货量，下调额大约为10%，苹果2020年第一季度iPhone出货量将仅为3600万～4000万部。
Guo Ming-chu, an analyst at Tianfeng Securities, said Apple had cut iPhone shipments by about 10% in the first quarter of 2020 and that Apple would ship only 36 million to 40 million iPhones in the first quarter of 2020.
此前有报道指出，富士康董事长刘扬伟在回应鸿海集团是否会下调今年的销售额时表示：“鉴于当前的市场状况，预计2020年销售额将增长1%～3%。
"Given current market conditions, sales are expected to grow by 1 per cent to 3 per cent in 2020," said Liu Yangwei, Foxconn's chairman, in response to a question about whether Hon Hai would cut sales this year.
”这一数字低于其1月22日预测的3%～5%，也低于分析师们此前平均预测的5.4%。
That is below its January 22 forecast of 3 to 5 per cent and analysts' average forecast of 5.4 per cent.
不过，对于上述信息，富士康相关人士2月5日向记者发来的回应称：“目前（鸿海）公司并未正式对外提供财测数字。
However, for the above information, Foxconn officials sent a response to reporters on February 5, said: "[Hon Hai] the company has not formally provided financial estimates.
”记者从台湾证券交易所网站获悉，2月20日，鸿海发布公告称，公司一向不评论市场对集团营运的评估报告，也未曾对外发布季度财测数字。
Hon Hai issued a notice on Feb. 20 saying it had not commented on market estimates of the group's operations, nor had it released quarterly estimates, the website of the Taiwan Stock Exchange said.
并表示，受新冠肺炎疫情影响，本公司在保护员工安全为第一优先、复工流程合法合规的原则下，中国大陆主要厂区的复工进度会较为谨慎，对于全年营收确实会有负面影响。
Due to the impact of the new crown pneumonia, the company in the protection of staff safety as the first priority, return to the principle of legal compliance process, the main plant in mainland China will be more cautious progress, for the year-round revenue will have a negative impact.
海外厂区部分，包括越南、印度、墨西哥等地营运仍持续满载，部分扩产计划也正常进行中，整体详细状况将待情况明朗后对外说明。
Some overseas factories, including Vietnam, India and Mexico, continue to operate at full capacity, and some expansion plans are on track. Details will be provided when the situation becomes clear.
“请你保持一米距离”然而，在当下，富士康面临的第一大问题，仍然是防疫。
"Please keep your distance by one meter." However, the number one problem facing Foxconn today remains epidemic prevention.
如果出现问题，便会让昂贵的复工，更加昂贵。
If something goes wrong, it will make it expensive to get back to work.
据富士康科技集团2月25日消息，钟南山已经担任集团新冠肺炎防疫及复工总顾问。
Zhong Nan Shan has served as the group's chief consultant for pneumonia prevention and resumption of work, Foxconn Group reported on February 25.
尚不知钟南山给了富士康什么建议。
Still do not know what advice Zhong Nan Shan gives Foxconn.
“间隔一米以上”，成为了郑州、烟台富士康厂区及周边出现频度极高的一句话。
"More than one meter interval," has become Zhengzhou, Yantai Foxconn factory area and the surrounding high frequency of a sentence.
《等深线》记者在郑州富士康招募中心看到，老员工在此排队办理入职手续，几位员工短暂扎堆聊天，遭到现场工作人员的呵斥。
"Bathymetric Line" reporters in Zhengzhou Foxconn recruitment center to see the old staff queuing up to check in, a few staff members temporarily pile up chat, the staff at the scene yelled.
此外，入职排队、就餐排队、乘坐班车排队、进入宿舍消毒排队，均需间隔一米以上。
In addition, on-boarding queues, repast queues, bus queues, disinfection queues into the dormitory, need to be more than one meter apart.
防护物资成为稀缺品。
Protective materials became scarce.
张青林告诉《等深线》记者，正常上班后，厂区每天会给员工发一个口罩，宿舍里面也有消毒液。
Zhang Qinglin told "Bathline" reporter, after the normal work, the factory area will give staff a mask every day, dormitory also have disinfectant.
郑州港区富士康厂区与宿舍并不在一起，较大的几个宿舍跟园区有一定距离。
The Foxconn factory district of Zhengzhou port area is not in the dormitory, the larger dormitories have some distance from the park.
有班车可将员工直接从厂区带回宿舍。
There is a shuttle bus to take staff directly from the factory to the dormitory.
不过，仍有部分员工选择自己步行返回宿舍。
However, some employees still choose to walk back to the dormitory.
途中需经过多个生活区。
Multiple living quarters are required on the way.
目前，郑州富士康的所有宿舍均已封闭，进入需持有证件，测量体温且经过多次消毒。
At present, all dormitories in Foxconn, Zhengzhou, have been closed, entering into the possession of documents, temperature measurement and many times disinfection.
就餐环节的防疫更为复杂。
Eating link epidemic prevention is more complex.
2月25日，河南省委书记王国生前往富士康调研，特意走访了餐厅。
February 25, Henan provincial party secretary Wang Guosheng to Foxconn investigation, specially visited the restaurant.
《等深线》记者发现，工人从生产车间出来，走过一个约100米的廊道，进入餐厅区域。
"Bathymetric" reporters found that workers came out of the production workshop, through a corridor of about 100 meters, into the restaurant area.
在餐厅门入口，地面用隔离线划出一个走道，员工之间间隔一米以上，在上述走道排队就餐。
At the entrance to the restaurant door, the floor is separated by a single walkway, separated by more than one metre between staff, lined up in the aisles.
知情人士透露，目前郑州富士康园区实行错峰就餐，不允许员工自行就餐。
People familiar with the matter revealed that the current Zhengzhou Foxconn Park to implement staggered dining, do not allow staff to eat their own.
每20人组成一个小组，该小组统一就餐，然后统一离开。
Every 20 people form a group, this group repast uniformly, then unify to leave.
每一批次就餐离开，都会有人对桌面进行一次消毒，再用清水清洗，然后下一批次就餐员工才能入座。
Each batch repast leaves, will carry on the disinfection to the desktop, then the clean water, then the next batch repast the staff can take a seat.
近日烟台富士康餐厅内景。
Foxconn restaurant in Yantai recently.
图片来自网络烟台、郑州的富士康，餐桌上，均新增了类似办公区的格挡板。
Pictures from the network Yantai, Zhengzhou Foxconn, dining table, have added a similar office block.
员工返岗后的生活较往常有很大的改变。
The life of the employees after their return to work has changed greatly than usual.
《等深线》记者于2月24日、25日实地走访，郑州富士康园区周边的餐饮几乎都没开门，只有部分超市、药店正在营业。
"Bathymetric Line" reporters on the field visit on February 24, 25, Zhengzhou Foxconn Park almost all the restaurants open, only some supermarkets, pharmacies are open.
因特殊时期员工餐厅就餐程序复杂，不愿在此就餐的员工并无太多选择，泡面和火腿几乎成为标配。
Due to the complex restaurant dining procedures at special times, staff who do not want to eat here do not have many options, bubble noodles and ham almost become the standard.
有员工介绍：“我们部门一半人员是吃泡面。
"Half the people in our department eat noodles," said one employee.
这几天沃金华联超市（郑州港区富士康园区附近的一个大超市）的泡面、馒头和咸菜已经脱销了。
The foam, buns and pickles at the Waksinghua Supermarket, a large supermarket near Foxconn in Zhengzhou's port area, have been sold out in recent days.
大家都说目前的状态是‘上班富士康，下班康师傅’。
Everyone said the current state is' Foxconn at work, Master Kang after work '.
”抛开富士康，政府的支持也随处可见。
Beyond Foxconn, government support is everywhere.
前期被称赞“硬核”防疫的河南，在复工时，也在给出积极的举措。
Early praised "hard core" epidemic prevention in Henan, when the resumption of work, is also giving positive measures.
洛阳市嵩县人社局副局长王红来在过去的一周，协调当地7批务工人员前往郑州富士康返岗。
In the past week, Wang Honglai, deputy director of the Song County Bureau of Luoyang, coordinated seven groups of local workers back to Foxconn, Zhengzhou.
“我们县去年在郑州富士康工作的人员有5700多人。
"More than 5,700 people worked in Foxconn, Zhengzhou, last year.
前7批已经安排440余人返回工作岗位。
More than 440 people have returned to work in the first seven batches.
预计到3月底，我们嵩县的外出务工人员返岗工作能够大致落地。
By the end of March, it is expected that migrant workers will be able to return to work in Songxian.
”2月27日，他告诉《等深线》记者，在同港区富士康沟通后，经郑州市港区人社局协调，富士康安排车辆，前往当地直接将人员拉走。
On February 27, he told Bathymetric News that after communicating with Foxconn in the port area, Foxconn arranged vehicles to take people away directly from the area, coordinated by the Zhengzhou Port People's Bureau.
在返岗前，他们需要为务工人员开具多项证明。
Before returning to work, they need to issue multiple certificates for the workers.
据不完全统计，河南濮阳、安阳、漯河、平顶山、洛阳等多地均有类似政策。
According to incomplete statistics, Pu Yang, Anyang, Luohe, Pingdingshan and Luoyang in Henan Province have similar policies.
据河南当地媒体相关报道，2月24日，郑州市交警部门还专门护送富士康员工免费专车，直至富士康园区。
On Feb. 24, Zhengzhou traffic police also escorted Foxconn employees to the Foxconn Park, local media reported.
在重庆，政府还针对招工中介开出了奖励：如果中介机构帮富士康、广达等重庆代工厂招到一个工人，当地政府会补贴给中介机构2000多元。
In Chongqing, the government also offers incentives to recruitment agencies: if the agency helps Foxconn, Quanta and other Chongqing's factories recruit a worker, the local government will subsidize the agency for more than 2,000 yuan.
中介机构没有透露具体补贴的金额是多少。
The intermediary did not disclose the amount of the specific subsidy.
不过，工人如在该园区各厂内挨个厂轮着上班，将不能获得这一笔补贴，除非换厂中间，有1个月以上的不上班时间。
However, workers who work on a rotating basis in the plants on the campus will not be entitled to this allowance unless there is a break of more than one month in the middle of the change.
采访中，各个园区、层级的人员，对记者透露的返岗比例均不同，但多数认为目前远低于往年同期。
In the interview, each park, the level of personnel, to the reporter revealed the proportion of return to work vary, but most think that the current far lower than the same period in previous years.
一位政府工作人员则私下透露，当地富士康刚接了某知名企业游戏机订单，他和同事们认为，在旧有订单压力下，富士康能否供应新增订单，肯定有压力。
A government official said privately that Foxconn had just taken orders for a popular console and that he and his colleagues felt the company would be under pressure to supply new orders under pressure from old orders.
这个判断，缘于他们连日来对复工人数的观察。
The judgment is the result of days of observation about the number of workers returning to work.
所有人都盼望着疫情形势能有更大好转，那样，复工和产能似乎都不再需要如此焦虑了。
Everyone is looking forward to a bigger turnaround in the epidemic, so that neither work nor production capacity seems to be so anxious anymore.
但这是一条不好判断的时间距离，无法用员工之间一米的距离去衡量。
But this is a difficult time distance to judge, can not be measured in terms of the distance between staff members.
截至发稿，富士康总部及各厂区均未接受《等深线》记者采访。
At the time of writing, Foxconn headquarters and factories have not been "Bathymetric Line" reporters.
（编辑：郝成 校对：颜京宁）推荐阅读点击大图|今天起，30万亿房贷迎来巨变！只有一次的选择，你会怎么选？点击大图|重磅！新冠肺炎病毒几乎人人易感！中国-世卫联合报告发布，信息量巨大。
(Edit: Hao Cheng, proofread by Yan Jingning): Today, 30 trillion mortgage loans are undergoing a major change! What do you do with only one choice? Click Great Pneumonia! Almost everyone is susceptible to the New Crown Pneumonia!
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
富士康最难最贵“复工季”：北上广深部分中介获得返费高达17000元。
Foxconn the most difficult and most expensive "back to work season": the north part of the intermediary to get a refund of up to 17,000 yuan.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "中国经营报";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "富士康最难最贵“复工季”：北上广深部分中介获得返费高达17000元";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Foxconn's toughest and most expensive "get back to work season": $17,000;; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "中国经营报 chinabusinessjournal";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Chinabusinessjournal & quot;;; China Business Newspaper.
title: '今天起，30万亿房贷迎来巨变！只有一次的选择，你会怎么选？',。
A: Today, $30 trillion in home loans has changed dramatically! Only once did you choose? & amp; apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '中国经营报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '重磅！新冠肺炎病毒几乎人人易感！中国-世卫联合报告发布，信息量巨大',。
& nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
subject_name: '中国经营报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="中国经营报";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
