出生45天婴儿确诊！韩专家称最坏情况是40%国民感染,，疫情或至年底！/* declared */。
South Korean experts say the worst-case scenario is 40% national infection, or end of the year! / * declared * /.
出生45天婴儿确诊！韩专家称最坏情况是40%国民感染,，疫情或至年底！<br>。
Confirmed 45-day-old baby! Korean experts say the worst was 40% national infection, or an outbreak or by the end of the year! & nbsp; Br & gt;
| title       = 出生45天婴儿确诊！韩专家称最坏情况是40%国民感染,，疫情或至年底！。
South Korean experts say the worst-case scenario is 40% national infection, or 'by the end of the year!'
出生45天婴儿确诊！韩专家称最坏情况是40%国民感染,，疫情或至年底！。
45-day-old baby diagnosis! Korean experts say the worst case is 40% national infection, the outbreak or by the end of the year!
中国经营报                      。
China Business News.
中国经营报。
China Business News.
与中国企业同步成长，对话商业领袖，传播商业理想，服务商业人群，《中国经营报》掌控中国商界绝对话语权。
Growing in step with Chinese companies, dialogue with business leaders, spreading business ideals, serving the business community, The China Business Administration controls the absolute voice of the Chinese business community.
。
.
据韩联社报道，韩国卫生部门通报，截至3月1日下午4时，韩国较当天上午9时新增新冠肺炎确诊病例210例，累计确诊病例达3736例。
As of 4: 00 p.m. March 1, 210 new cases of pneumonia were confirmed in South Korea, bringing the total number of confirmed cases to 3,736, the Yonhap news agency reported.
与前一天下午4时相比，一天内新增确诊病例586例，累计18人死亡。
Compared to 4 p.m. the previous day, 586 new cases were confirmed during the day, resulting in a cumulative total of 18 deaths.
另据央视新闻消息，韩国卫生部门当天上午还公布了一例出生仅45天的婴儿确诊感染病例，为韩国年龄最小的确诊感染者。
Also Sunday morning, South Korea's health ministry announced a 45-day-old baby confirmed infection, the country's youngest confirmed infected person, CCTV news reported.
据环球网援引韩联社消息，韩国首尔大学医院感染内科教授崔平均表示，最糟糕的情况是，全国40%的人口可能会被感染（新冠肺炎）。
In a worst-case scenario, 40 percent of the population could get infected, Choi Gwan, professor of infectious medicine at Seoul University Hospital, was quoted as saying on the Web.
值得一提的是，刚刚过去的一周（2月24日-2月28日），韩国综合指数跌幅超8%。
It is worth mentioning that the Korea Composite Index fell more than 8% in the past week (Feb. 24-Feb. 28).
新天地教会会长将接受新冠病毒检测据环球网援引韩国纽西斯通讯社3月1日消息，韩国新天地教会会长李万熙将接受新冠病毒检测。
NEW YORK (Reuters) - South Korea's Xintiandi Church president Lee Wanxi will be tested for the new crown virus, the head of the Church of New Horizon said Monday.
此外，韩国首尔市将以过失杀人罪等罪名起诉新天地教会会长李万熙等人。
Seoul, South Korea, will sue Lee Wanxi, president of Xintiandi Church, for manslaughter and other charges.
3月1日上午，首尔市长朴元淳在自己的脸书账号发布题为“新天地教总会长李万熙作为本次事件的核心责任人，请立即出面解决问题”的文章。
On the morning of March 1, Seoul Mayor Park won-soon posted an article on his Facebook account titled "Xintiandi General Association President Lee Wanxi as the core of the incident, please come forward to solve the problem."
朴元淳敦促李万熙等新天地教会人员向国民道歉，要求李万熙本人以及全体新天地教会教徒立即接受检查，积极配合防疫工作。
Park urged Li and other Xintiandi church personnel to apologize to the people, asked Lee Wanxi and all Xintiandi Church immediately to accept inspection, actively cooperate with the epidemic prevention work.
朴元淳还表示，如果教会不采取必要措施，首尔市方面将按照此前预告，以过失杀人罪等罪名提起诉讼。
Park also said Seoul would sue for manslaughter and other charges, as previously announced, if the church did not take the necessary steps.
朴元淳还喊话检察总长尹锡悦称，逮捕李万熙是目前检方应该发挥的作用。
Park also called for Attorney General Yin Siyue that the arrest of Lee Wanxi is the current role of the prosecution should play.
很多一线医护人员“每天只能睡3小时”据韩国《中央日报》报道，韩国国内的防护口罩生产厂家有113家，每天最大产量是1300万个。
Many frontline medical workers sleep only three hours a day. There are 113 manufacturers of face masks in South Korea, with a daily output of 13 million, the China Daily reported.
据《中国新闻周刊》，大邱市民金基焕（音）近日发现，之前“几百韩元到一千韩元”的普通口罩涨到了4000到5000韩元（约23到28元人民币），“但是也买不到”。
According to China News Weekly, Daegu citizen Kim Kyung-hwan recently discovered that the number of common face masks, which used to range from a few hundred won to one thousand won, has risen to 4,000 to 5,000 won, but none can be bought.
在大邱的中国留学生阿白则观察到，她之前购买的防疫口罩在有些药店里已经从平常的2500韩元（约15元人民币）左右涨价到了6000韩元（约34元人民币）。
Abbey, a Chinese student in Daegu, observed that her previously purchased face masks had risen from about 2,500 won (about Rmb15) in some pharmacies to 6,000 won (about Rmb34).
截至2月27日，大邱市有20余名医护人员感染新冠病毒，260余名医护人员被隔离。
As at 27 February, more than 20 health-care workers in Daegu had been infected with the new crown virus and more than 260 health-care workers had been quarantined.
大邱东山医院表示，目前该院医护尚无被感染者，但其上级医院东山医院2月24日已有一名护士确诊。
Taegu Dongshan Hospital said there was no case of infection, but its superior hospital, Dongshan Hospital, confirmed by a nurse on February 24.
韩国更大的问题是医护人员数量不足。
A bigger problem in South Korea is the shortage of health-care workers.
截至2月27日，大邱东山医院参与救治新冠肺炎患者的医护人员及其他员工共有246人，从韩国其他地区前来援助的医护人员有97人。
As of February 27, 246 medical staff and other staff of Taegu Tung Shan Hospital were involved in treating patients with Newcomost Pneumonia, and 97 medical staff from other parts of the country had come to help.
该院人士表示，现在医院的护士们按工作两小时、休息两小时、再工作两小时的模式不断工作，“只有人员数量上去了，才有可能实现（换班）。
Hospital nurses now work two hours a day, two hours off and two more hours on the job. "This is only possible if the number of staff goes up," the hospital said.
”此外，处理医疗废弃物、打扫卫生的清洁人员也很急需。
There is also an urgent need for cleaners to deal with medical waste and clean-up.
此前，有参与救治工作的医生对韩国媒体透露，人手缺乏导致一线医护“很多人每天只能睡3个小时”。
Earlier, doctors involved in the treatment told South Korean media that the shortage of staff had led to "many people sleeping only three hours a day."
该医生说：“大家已经非常疲劳，再这样下去，不是因为感染上病毒，而是会因为体力不支倒下。
"People are very tired," the doctor said. "If it goes on like this, it's not because of the virus, but because the body is unable to support itself.
”2月27日，韩国医院协会发出警告，称大邱地区各医院防护物资不够、医护人员缺乏的问题严峻，甚至出现“普通患者因为当地无法救治而涌入首尔”的情况。
On February 27, the Korean Hospital Association (KHA) warned that hospitals in Daegu were short of protective materials, that there was a shortage of medical staff and that there was even an "influx of ordinary patients into Seoul due to the unavailability of local medical care."
“假如疫情长期扩散，各医院将难以承担这一压力，我们国家的医疗体系会崩溃。
"If the epidemic spreads over the long term, hospitals will find it difficult to cope and our national health system will collapse.
”韩专家：最坏情况40%国民感染“最糟糕的情况是，全国40%的人口可能会被感染（新冠肺炎）。
"In the worst case scenario, 40 percent of the population could be infected (New Crown Pneumonia)," said Han.
” “疫情可能会持续到今年年底”。
"The epidemic is likely to continue until the end of this year."
2月28日，韩国首尔大学医院感染内科教授崔平均（音）在当天的一次座谈会上作出上述发言。
On Feb. 28, Choi Gon, professor of infectious medicine at Seoul University Hospital, made the remarks at a symposium that day.
据韩联社报道，韩国在野党未来统合党28日举行的疫情相关座谈会上，该党一名议员提问：患者剧增的现象是否会在首都圈出现，这种情况会持续到什么时候？崔平均表示这“很难预测”，因为这是人类无法免疫的病毒。
South Korea's opposition Futures Unification Party asked a member of parliament whether and how long the surge would continue in the capital, saying it was "hard to predict," because it is an immune-resistant virus.
根据以往经验，最糟糕的情况是，全国40%的人口可能会被感染。
At worst, according to past experience, 40 per cent of the population may be infected.
该议员又问“听说患者人数可能达万名”，崔平均表示，事实上，如果3月内疫情不能结束，要做好疫情持续到年末的准备。
The congressman added: "I heard the number of patients could reach 10,000," Mr Cui said. "In fact, if the epidemic does not end in March, be prepared to continue the epidemic until the end of the year."
中金：韩国一季度GDP环比萎缩概率较大近日，中金公司分析师张梦云和易峘就疫情对韩国经济的影响发布了研报。
CHINESE: In recent days, CICC analysts Zhang Mengyun and Yi Li published a study on the effects of the epidemic on South Korea's economy.
研报称，此前韩国制造业已经在承受中国疫情对外负面溢出效应：受中国需求下降影响，韩国2月前20天日均出口同比负增长9%；据媒体报道，中国制造业开工不足，也导致韩国部分企业如现代汽车因零部件不足停产。
South Korea's manufacturing sector had already suffered negative spillover effects from the Chinese epidemic, with exports contracting 9 per cent year-on-year in the first 20 days of February on falling Chinese demand, and a lack of manufacturing activity in China, according to media reports, led some South Korean companies such as Hyundai to shut down production because of a lack of spare parts.
这一背景下，疫情在韩国本土较快扩散，可能令更多企业减产甚至停工，其制造业面临“雪上加霜”的困境。
Against this backdrop, the rapid spread of the epidemic in mainland South Korea could cause more companies to cut production or shut down, adding to the manufacturing woes.
但对全球投资者而言更重要的是，在中国制造业因为疫情而暂时产能尚未完全恢复背景下，同样作为全球制造业大国韩国的工厂，如果短时间降低产能或者停产，无疑会加剧全球供应链紧张。
But what is more important for global investors is that factories in South Korea, also a global manufacturing powerhouse, will undoubtedly exacerbate global supply-chain tensions if capacity is reduced or shut down for a short period of time, while China's manufacturing sector has yet to fully recover from the epidemic.
比如，韩国制造业在全球举足轻重，尤其是电子产业占全球增加值7.7%（注：EOCD2015年数据）。
South Korean manufacturing, for example, is globally significant, with the electronics industry accounting for 7.7 per cent of global value added (note: EOCD2015 data).
资料来源：OECD, 中金公司研究部除了出口，韩国的消费也受到影响。
Source: OECD, Research Department of CICC. In addition to exports, consumption in South Korea was also affected.
研报称，从中国1月下旬以来的经验看，随着疫情发展，韩国本地消费也将逐步受到冲击，尤其是一些“体验式消费”。
Research reports that China's experience since late January suggests that, as the epidemic progresses, local consumption in South Korea will gradually suffer, especially some "experiential consumption."
鉴于2018年韩国GDP中私人消费占比达 65%（中国同期为39%），其消费减速对经济增长影响可能较大。
Given that private consumption accounted for 65% of South Korea's GDP in 2018 (compared with 39% in China over the same period), South Korea's consumption slowdown is likely to have a significant impact on economic growth.
另外，入境外国游客也可能急剧下降。
In addition, foreign visitors may decline sharply.
韩国2019年入境游客收入达217亿美元，占GDP比例1.3%。
South Korea's tourist revenue reached $21.7 billion in 2019, or 1.3 per cent of GDP.
虽然目前这些影响还难以量化估算，但中国台湾、新加坡和中国香港这三个2003年SARS疫情较为严重的小型经济体的经验可暂供参考。
Although these impacts are difficult to quantify, the experiences of three small economies with severe SARS outbreaks in 2003 - Taiwan, Singapore and Hong Kong, China - can be used for reference.
2003年2季度，中国台湾、新加坡和中国香港私人消费环比增速平均相比上季度下降1个百分点，旅游收入水平相比上季度下降50~60%。
In the second quarter of 2003, private consumption growth in Taiwan, Singapore, and Hong Kong, China, fell by an average of 1 percentage point from the previous quarter, and tourism income levels fell by 50-60% from the previous quarter.
考虑到韩国去年4季度实际GDP环比增速仅仅为1.2%，中金预计韩国今年1季度实际GDP环比负增长概率较大。
Given South Korea's real GDP growth rate of only 1.2% in the fourth quarter of last year, CICC expects real GDP growth to be negative in the first quarter of this year.
来源：每日经济新闻综合央视新闻、中国新闻周刊、环球网等等推荐阅读 点击大图|富士康最难最贵“复工季”：北上广深部分中介获得返费高达17000元 点击大图|首例死亡病例出现！特朗普迅速表态，美专家最担心的事或已发生......。
http: / / www.youtheme.cn / www.youtheme.cn / www.youtheme.cn / www.youtheme.cn / www.youtheme.cn / www.youtheme.cn / www.youtheme.cn / www.youtheme.cn / www.youtheme.cn / www.youtheme.cn / www.youtheme.cn / www.youtheme.cnYouTheme (wwwyoutheme.cn) www.youtheme.cn / www.youtheme.cn / www.youtheme.cnYouTheme (wwwyoutheme.cn)
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
出生45天婴儿确诊！韩专家称最坏情况是40%国民感染,，疫情或至年底！。
45-day-old baby diagnosis! Korean experts say the worst case is 40% national infection, the outbreak or by the end of the year!
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
