武汉方舱医院高效运行背后。
Wuhan Fangkang Hospital behind the efficient operation.
健闻吴晔婷。
Nicknamed Wu selected.
八点健闻                      。
Eight good news.
八点健闻。
Eight good news.
看得懂的健康专业新闻。
Understandable health professional news.
方舱医院的建立，是整个武汉疫情最重要的转折点。
The establishment of the square cabin hospital is the most important turning point of Wuhan epidemic situation.
通过有效运转、疏导，出舱病人越来越多，医疗资源后期迅速得到缓解。
Through effective operation, drainage, more and more patients out of the cabin, medical resources were quickly relieved later.
早期对环境、条件诸多质疑、拒绝入舱的轻症患者，后来也慢慢开始接受方舱医院。
Early to the environment, conditions many doubts, refused to enter the cabin of light patients, and later slowly began to accept the cabin hospital.
第六版诊疗指南公布后，核酸检测阴性、CT阳性（具有肺炎影像学特征）的患者该怎么办，成了方舱医院医生们以及社区工作人员普遍的疑问。
When the sixth edition of the guidelines was published, the question of what to do with patients who tested negative for nucleic acid and were CT-positive (with pneumonia imaging features) became common among cabin hospital doctors and community workers.
方舱医院由轻症转重症的比例在2%～5%左右。
The proportion of the hospital from mild to severe was about 2% ~ 5%.
“常常安慰”是方舱医生角色的真实写照。
"Often comforts" is a true portrayal of the cabin doctor's role.
治愈后离开的患者，有不少人甚至怀念方舱医院。
After the cure left the patient, many people even miss the Fang cabin hospital.
“病区医护很多，随时一招手，护士就过来了”。
"There's a lot of medical care in the area. The nurse comes whenever you wave."
2月14日傍晚，武汉亚洲心脏病医院的副主任医师肖红艳刚做完四台主动脉夹层腔内隔绝手术，在医院洗完澡正准备回家时，他接到了院长的电话，得到了一个紧急任务：武汉亚洲心脏病医院与武汉亚心总医院作为依托单位，要接管正在筹建中的武汉沌口方舱医院。
On the evening of February 14, Xiao Hongyan, deputy director of Wuhan Asian Heart Hospital, had just finished four dissecting operations in the aortic dissection. As he was getting ready to return home from the bath, he received a call from the dean of the hospital.
这是自2月3日武汉市开始实施新冠病人分类救治以来，开放的第十家方舱医院。
This is the 10th open cabin hospital in Wuhan since February 3, when the new patients were classified and treated.
取自“诺亚方舟”一词的方舱医院，由大型体育馆等场所改造而来，集中隔离和治疗轻症新冠病人。
The square-cabin hospital, taken from the term "Noah's Ark," was converted from large stadiums and other facilities to concentrate on isolation and treatment of patients with mild crowns.
1月底武汉疫情以社区为中心的“居家隔离”政策，并未限制住轻症、疑似病人自我隔离，造成更多感染，定点医院医疗资源已难堪重负，方舱因而横空出世。
At the end of January, Wuhan's community-centred policy of "home isolation" did not limit mild cases, suspected patients self-isolation, resulting in more infections, embarrassing burden of designated hospital medical resources, and thus the emergence of the cabin.
2月1日，院士王辰造访武汉，提出“方舱医院”概念，高层拍板，方舱医院紧急开建，第一批4000张床位，仅29小时建设完成。
On February 1, academician Wang Chen visited Wuhan, put forward the concept of "square cabin hospital," high-level slab, square cabin hospital emergency construction, the first 4,000 beds, only 29 hours to complete.
方舱医院的试水，在2月中旬已得到较好的反馈。
The water test at the Fang Cavern Hospital received good feedback in mid-February.
2月11日，最早收治病人的武昌方舱医院已有一批病人出院。
On February 11, a number of patients were discharged from the Wuchang Fang Hospital, the first hospital to receive patients.
早期对方舱医院的环境、条件诸多质疑、拒绝入舱的轻症患者，已慢慢接受方舱医院。
Early on the other side of the cabin hospital environment, conditions many doubts, refused to enter the cabin of light patients, has slowly accepted the cabin hospital.
肖红艳即将入驻的沌口方舱医院，是在外界对方舱相对认同的情况下建立的。
Xiao Hongyan will be admitted to the illegible port square cabin hospital, is in the external relative recognition of the other side of the cabin under the circumstances.
即便如此，这家方舱医院也像最早期建立的那批方舱一样，经历了初期的混乱、物资的匮乏，和社区衔接的冲突，以及患者的不满。
Even so, the cabin hospital, like the earlier cabins, experienced initial chaos, lack of supplies, conflict with the community, and patient dissatisfaction.
幸运的是，它也经历了同样的转折：方舱医院的医疗资源最初很紧张，但通过有效运转、疏导，使社会上新增病人越来越少，出方舱的病人越来越多，医疗资源后期迅速得到缓解。
Fortunately, it experienced the same transition: the hospital's medical resources were initially strained, but through effective operation and guidance, fewer and fewer new patients became available in the community, more patients in the outboard cabins, and medical resources were quickly relieved later in life.
这是和1月底被越来越多的病人冲击的定点医院最不同的一点。
This is the most different from the designated hospital, which was hit by an increasing number of patients at the end of January.
△ 开舱前的沌口方舱医院（受访者供图）2月28日，在武汉举行的新冠疫情发布会上，国家卫健委主任马晓伟，将“16家方舱医院，13000多张开放床位”的建立，称为“在医疗资源紧张、疫情扩散压力下”极其正确、果断的决定。
At a press conference held in Wuhan on Feb. 28, Ma Xiaowei, the director of the National Fitness and Health Commission, called the decision, "under the pressure of medical resources and epidemic spread," the extremely correct and decisive decision to establish "16 square-cabin hospitals with more than 13,000 beds."
“一边挖战壕，一边打阻击战“1月底，核酸检测放开；2月初，方舱医院开建。
"At the end of January, nucleic acid testing was released. In early February, the Fang Cavern Hospital was opened.
一大批在1月份等不到核酸检测，住不了医院、在社区和医院之间为寻求就医到处流动的轻症病人，成为符合进入“方舱医院“条件的病人。
A large number of light patients who were unable to wait until January for nucleic acid testing, were unable to stay in hospitals, moved between communities and hospitals for medical treatment, and became eligible for admission to the "square cabin hospital."
获得病人的认同，并不容易。
Getting recognition from patients is not easy.
最早的方舱开始收核酸阳性，没有基础疾病的轻症病人时，许多病人的首选还是定点医院。
The earliest square cabins began to receive nucleic acid-positive patients without basic diseases when many patients preferred to order a hospital.
张一丹（化名）的父亲被确诊核酸阳性，虽然有肺气肿等基础疾病，还是被社区推荐进了方舱，但他是在等待医院床位无望的情况下无奈去方舱的。
Zhang Yidan (alias) father was diagnosed with nucleic acid-positive, although basic diseases such as emphysema, or emphysema, were recommended by the community into the capsule, but he had to go to the cockpit while waiting for his hospital bed to become hopeless.
短短几天内建立的方舱，开始接收病人时基础条件并不好，犹疑的病人不满的情绪很容易被点燃。
A square cabin built in a matter of days, when the patient begins to receive the base conditions are not good, hesitant patients are easily ignited dissatisfaction.
据一位方舱医院医生回忆：“2月5号晚上第一次收病人，相当于一边挖战壕，一边打阻击战。
"The first patient intake on the night of February 5 was the equivalent of digging trenches while fighting a fight," recalled a doctor at the cabin hospital.
” 洪山体育馆方舱医院在收病人当天，病人不满意插板没有电、食物和暖气，情绪失控，护士安抚了很久。
"On the day patients were admitted to Hong Shan Gymnasium, the patient was dissatisfied with the lack of electricity, food and heat, and his mood got out of control.
半个月后建立的第十家方舱医院——沌口方舱医院位于武汉美安物流园，由原本的物流仓库改造而成，医院共设置996张床位，由武汉亚洲心脏病医院派驻团队（20人）负责院级层面的管理和协调，负责整体规章制度、工作流程、物资匹配、环境创造和生活保障。
Half a month later, the 10th cabin hospital, Shileikou Square Hospital, is located in Wuhan Mei'an Logistics Park, converted from the original logistics warehouse. It has 996 beds and is managed and coordinated at the institutional level by a team from Wuhan Asian Heart Hospital (20 people), responsible for overall regulations, workflow, material matching, environmental creation and livelihood security.
中央指导组则负责调动全国的医生资源。
The Central Steering Group is responsible for mobilizing doctors' resources throughout the country.
具体的病人救治由五支医疗队共同接管，五支医疗队分别来自重庆、广西、甘肃、黑龙江和内蒙古。
Five medical teams, from Chongqing, Guangxi, Gansu, Heilongjiang and Inner Mongolia, jointly took over the treatment of specific patients.
每支医疗队由20名医生和80名护士组成，五支医疗队的医护人员共计500名。
Each medical team consists of 20 doctors and 80 nurses, and five medical teams have a total of 500 medical personnel.
接到任务的第二天，2月15日，肖红艳和同事共计8人率先到了沌口方舱踩点，肖红艳看到现场状况之后，倒抽了一口凉气：“那时仅仅完成了棚子的搭建和床的进场，床上的被褥用品都还是不够的，当时医护的进出通道设计也不太合理，网线、电线、水管、电话线、办公用品这些都不齐全。
The day after receiving the assignment, Feb. 15, Xiao Hongyan and her colleagues took the lead in 8 people to the point where Shou Hongyan saw the scene and took a breath of coolness: "At that time only finished the construction of the shed and bed, bedding supplies are still inadequate, medical access design was not reasonable, wire, water lines, telephone lines, office supplies are not complete
更别提医疗设备了。
Not to mention medical equipment.
”“指挥部要求17日必须开舱接诊”，这对于医疗队而言，意味着筹备时间非常紧张。
"Command requires the opening of the cabin on the 17th," which means the preparation time for the medical team is very tight.
肖红艳还记得当时开舱的慌乱，就在17日晚上方舱医院正式开始收治病人之前的一分钟，医疗队员还在紧张地向舱内运送物资，主要是体温计、血氧饱和度测试仪、血压计这些最基础的医疗物资，而吸氧机等医疗设备直到21日才出现在沌口方舱医院，车载CT则是26日下午才到达沌口方舱。
Xiao Hongyan still remembers the panic of opening the cabin at that time, just one minute before the official opening of the cabin hospital on the night of the 17th, the medical team was still frantically delivering materials to the cabin, mainly thermometers, oxygen saturation testers, sphygmomanometers.
两小时内涌入500多位病人2月5日，第五版诊疗指南的确诊标准添加了CT影像的临床诊断。
Within two hours of the influx of more than 500 patients February 5, the fifth edition of the diagnostic guidelines added CT imaging to the diagnostic criteria.
2月12日，在新的确诊标准实施后，武汉一天的确诊人数暴增13436例。
On February 12, the number of confirmed cases surged by 13,436 people a day in Wuhan, following the implementation of new diagnostic criteria.
“应收尽收“是这个时期收治新冠病人的指导性原则。
"Receivable Collection" is the guiding principle in the treatment of new crown patients in this period.
2月18日，沌口方舱医院开舱第二天即达到了入院高峰，两个小时内涌入了500多位病号。
On Feb. 18, the hospital reached its peak the next day, with an influx of more than 500 patients within two hours.
进入方舱的患者由社区完成初筛后转送至方舱，根据国家卫健委医政医管局发布的《方舱医院工作手册》，方舱医院收治的是新型冠状病毒确诊患者，并须满足以下入舱条件：1，轻型(临床症状轻微，影像学未见肺炎表现)、普通型(具有发热、呼吸道等症状，影像学可见肺炎表现)。
Patients entering the cabin are screened by the community and transferred to the cabin. According to the "Working Manual of the Fang Cao Hospital" issued by the Hospital Authority of the National Health Administration, the hospital accepts patients diagnosed with the new coronavirus and must meet the following conditions: 1. Light (mild clinical symptoms, no signs of pneumonia on imaging), common type (fever, respiratory symptoms, imaging signs of pneumonia).
2，有自主生活能力，可以自主行走。
Have the ability to live independently and walk independently.
3，无严重慢性疾病，包括高血压、糖尿病、冠心病、恶性肿瘤、结构性肺病、肺心病以及免疫抑制人群等。
3. Free from serious and chronic diseases, including hypertension, diabetes, coronary heart disease, malignant neoplasms, structural pulmonary disease, pulmonary heart disease and immunosuppressive groups.
4，无精神疾患史。
4. No history of mental illness.
5，静息状态下，指血氧饱和度(Sp02)>93%，呼吸频率<30次/分。
5. At rest, finger oxygen saturation (Sp02) & gt; 93%; respiratory frequency & ltd; 30 / min.
6，需要特殊说明其他情况。
6. Other special circumstances need to be specified.
在实际收治过程中，各个社区先对病人做了初筛，但转送的患者未必都符合标准。
In the actual treatment process, the communities first screen the patients, but not all of the patients referred to the standard.
医生在接受病人的过程中，发现一些病人有基础心脏病、肺部系统疾病、肾功能差，还有的病人有精神分裂症和心理障碍，这些按照规定都不能收。
In the course of receiving patients, doctors found that some patients had basic heart disease, diseases of the lung system, poor kidney function and, in some cases, schizophrenia and psychological disorders, which could not be collected as a rule.
留给医生筛查病人的时间很少，但基础疾病一一排查，是非常耗费时间的事情。
Doctors are left with little time to screen patients, but basic diseases are time-consuming.
在收治病人高峰期，方舱医院的大部分医生最终有所妥协：“凡是有生活自理能力的，都收进来了。
At the height of the patient season, most of the doctors at the cabin hospital finally relented: "Anyone who is able to fend for himself is admitted.
”如果一些病人方舱医院不收，医生会被问责：社区筛选的病人送到你方舱医院门口了，为什么又让这个病人返回到社区？在这种情况下，仍然有少数病人被医疗队识别并劝返。
If some patients are not admitted to a cabin hospital, the doctor will be held accountable: the patient who has been screened by the community is sent to your cabin hospital, and why is the patient returned to the community? A small number of patients are still identified and persuaded to return by the medical team.
一类是没有生活自理能力的病人。
One is patients who do not have the ability to support themselves.
有的坐着轮椅来的病人，方舱医院就会劝返。
Some patients come in wheelchairs, the cabin hospital will be advised to return.
方舱医院医生和护士的配置，决定了没有人手照料缺乏生活自理能力、又没有家属陪护的病人。
The configuration of the doctors and nurses at the Fang Cavern Hospital determines the lack of staff to care for patients who lack self-care and are not accompanied by family members.
另一类是社区实在无法安排定点医院的住院床位问题，一些到了方舱，发现病人的血氧饱和度已经低于93%，达到重症标准的患者，方舱也不能收治，只能建议社区将其转往定点医院。
The other is the inability of the community to arrange in-patient beds at designated hospitals. Some arrive in the square and find that the oxygen saturation of the patient is already below 93 per cent and that patients who meet the criteria for severe illness cannot be treated in the square cabin, but can only be referred to designated hospitals by the community.
还有一种情况非常普遍，一些病人的病程持续很久，多达两个月。
It is also common for some patients to remain ill for up to two months.
之前做的核酸检测多次阴性，肺部CT诊断结果也没有太多异常，这种病人已达到临床治愈标准，方舱医院也不会接收。
Previous tests for nucleic acid negative, lung CT diagnosis results are not too abnormal, this patient has reached the clinical standards of a cure, the cabin hospital will not accept.
让肖红艳感到头疼的一种情况是，他遇到过不少口头称自己有两次核酸检测均为阴性的患者，这样的患者给医生带来了很大的挑战，“如果他说的是假话，我就相当于把一个可疑的病人放回去了。
One of Xiao Hong Yan's headaches is the fact that he has encountered a number of patients who verbally claim to have tested negative for both nucleic acid tests twice, which poses a great challenge to doctors. "If he's telling the truth, I'm putting back a suspicious patient.
”所以碰到这种情况，肖红艳和团队的要求是，必须提供纸质的书面报告或者影像资料，而无法提供这样的客观资料依据的，则先收治入舱，待家属或者社区发来能够证明已经达到治愈出院标准的依据后，再准予出院。
Therefore, Xiao Hongyan and the team request that the paper written report or video materials must be provided, and if such objective information cannot be provided, the hospital will be admitted and discharged only after the family or community has sent evidence that the criteria for a cure have been met.
他认为，入院的一个关键标准是——宁可多收，不可错放。
A key criterion for admission, he argues, is that it is better to overcharge than misplace.
不同于传统医院，方舱医院在收治病人的环节中，并不是一个信息完整的诊疗中枢，需要和多个部门合作，比如疫情防控指挥部、社区，以及定点医院。
Unlike traditional hospitals, the Fang Cathedral Hospital is not a full information center in the treatment of patients. It needs to work with multiple departments, such as the Epidemic Command, the community, and designated hospitals.
患者经过社区初筛进入方舱，大多只能口头提供检查结果，具体的报告需要定点医院和社区提交给指挥部，再汇总至方舱。
After the community screening into the cabin, most of the results can only be provided orally, specific reports need to be designated hospitals and communities to the headquarters, and then aggregated to the cabin.
起初，肖红艳只能收到一份份excel版的汇总名单，“这样的信息太不正规了，也很有可能出错，我们医生需要看到详细的医院检查报告，报告上应该有检查结果、时间、患者信息和送审医生、报告医生的签名。
At first, Xiao Hongyan received only one copy of the summary list in Excel. "This information is too informal, and it is likely to go wrong. Our doctor needs to see the detailed hospital report, which should contain the results, time, patient information and the signature of the examining doctor and the report doctor.
这才是最客观的。
This is the most objective.
”从接手沌口方舱起，肖红艳就在不断向指挥部反映这个问题，直到开舱十多天后，武汉市只有两个区可以做到提供完整的患者检查报告。
From the moment he took over the cargo compartment, Xiao Hongyan kept reporting the matter to the headquarters until more than 10 days after opening, only two districts in Wuhan could provide a complete report.
一些方舱医院因为收治病人筛选把关不严，有些病人入院后马上转成重症。
Some of the squares were admitted to the hospital because of lax screening, some patients immediately after admission to the serious illness.
张一丹父亲所在的方舱医院，刚开始那几天，每天都有几个病人，因为呼吸急促，病情加重，转到定点医院。
Zhang Yidan's father's cabin hospital, the first few days, a few patients every day, because of shortness of breath, aggravated illness, referred to the designated hospital.
当时让他感到非常恐惧。
It scared him a lot.
诊疗方案迭代，给落地执行造成困扰刚开舱的两天（2月17～18日），沌口方舱医院收治病人，依据的是第五版新冠肺炎诊疗方案，在该版方案中，湖北省的诊断标准中包括临床诊断病例，也就是说，核酸检测阴性但是CT影像阳性的患者，也需作为确诊患者收治。
Iteration of the diagnosis and treatment plan, two days (Feb. 17-18) to the landing execution that perturbed the cockpit hospital, is based on the 5th edition of the New Crown Pneumonia Diagnostic Program, in which Hubei province's diagnostic criteria include clinical diagnoses, meaning that patients who test negative for nucleic acid but are CT-positive also need to be admitted as confirmed patients.
这个标准，在开舱的第三天，起变化了。
This standard, on the third day of opening, changed.
19日，武汉发布第六版诊疗方案，相较于第五版，最大的变化在于，取消了湖北省临床诊断病例的标准，湖北同全国其他地区一样，仅区分“疑似病例”和“确诊病例”两类情况。
Wuhan released the 6th edition of the diagnostic and treatment plan on February 19. The biggest change over the fifth edition was the abolition of the standard for clinical diagnosis in Hubei Province, which, like the rest of the country, distinguishes between "suspected cases" and "confirmed cases."
根据新版方案，两次核酸检测阴性但CT阳性的患者不再算作确诊病例。
Under the new scheme, patients who tested negative for two nucleic acid tests but were CT-positive no longer count as confirmed cases.
“核酸检测阴性、CT阳性的，到底该怎么办？”这成了方舱医院医生们以及社区工作人员普遍的疑问。
"Nucleic acid negative, CT positive, how to do after all?" This has become the cabin hospital doctors and community workers generally doubt.
对于沌口方舱这种于第六版更新前两天刚刚收满病人的方舱医院来说，尤甚。
This is especially true for the chaotic port capsule, which was filled with patients just two days before the sixth edition update.
就在第六版诊疗方案发布当天，沌口方舱医院的专家组讨论一致认为，一种比较合理的调整方式是，根据患者的检测结果做床位物理位置的调整，比如把核酸阴性和核酸阳性的患者相对分隔、CT阳性和CT阴性的患者也分别隔开。
On the day of release of the sixth edition of the protocol, the panel of experts at illegible oral cabin hospital agreed that a more reasonable adjustment would be to adjust the physical location of beds according to the patient's test results, such as the relative segregation of nucleic acid-negative and nucleic acid-positive patients and the separation of CT-positive and CT-negative patients.
但在实际操作中，这并不是一件上帝视角般挪动棋盘上的棋子位置就能解决的事情。
But in practice, this is not something that God can solve by moving the pieces on the chessboard from a God's perspective.
首先要对近一千个患者进行身份识别，了解他们的核酸结果，然后调床，把A床的患者调到B床，尽管这是一个理想的操作方式，但没有实际可操作性，最终未能实践。
The first step is to identify nearly a thousand patients, learn their nucleic acid results, then adjust the bed and transfer the A-bed patient to B-bed. Although this is an ideal way to operate, it is not practicable and cannot be put into practice.
“每天要接到十几个患者的投诉”不同于肖红艳平时工作的武汉亚洲心脏病医院，方舱医院作为一种战时医院，工作环境和工作条件都比较艰苦，而医护人员进入方舱也需要全副武装。
"Every day to receive more than a dozen patients complaints" different from Xiao Hongyan normal work at Wuhan Asian Heart Hospital, the cabin hospital as a wartime hospital, working conditions and working conditions are more difficult, and medical personnel into the cabin need to be fully armed.
“大家穿着防护服、戴着护目镜和双层手套，行动会比较缓慢，做任何事情在一定程度上都会有所妨碍。
"People wear protective clothing, goggles and double-decker gloves, they move more slowly and do everything in a way that interferes with it.
”△ 来自微信公众号“橘井杂谈”在方舱内，医护人员的工作重点也和传统医院不尽相同。
"From the microcosm public" tangerine miscellaneous talk "in the square cabin, the work priorities of medical personnel are not the same as those of traditional hospitals.
“大多数时候，我们要解决的是患者的生活问题，吃喝拉撒的问题，用药反而倒不是那么重要。
"Most of the time, we have to deal with the lives of patients, eating and drinking Lazarus problems, drugs are not so important.
”肖红艳告诉八点健闻，按照现行的诊疗方案，方舱内的轻症患者主要是吃抗病毒药和中成药。
Xiao Hongyan told the eight Jianyan, according to the current diagnosis and treatment plan, the side cabin patients are mainly taking antiviral drugs and proprietary Chinese medicines.
此前王辰院士接受央视采访时表示，根据他的调研结果，方舱医院由轻症转重症的比例在2%-5%左右。
Previously, in an interview with CCTV, Academician Wang Chen said that according to his research results, the proportion of hospital from mild to severe cases in the cabin is about 2% -5%.
“常常安慰”是方舱医生角色的真实写照。
"Often comforts" is a true portrayal of the cabin doctor's role.
一位广东医疗队的医生在个人微信公众号“橘井杂谈”上记录过这样一段凌晨2点交班查房经历：夜已深，大部分病人已沉沉入睡，我们四人分成两组，挨个走完差不多四百张病床，关注一下交班的几个重点病号，一个小时便过去了。
A doctor from the Guangdong Medical Team wrote in his personal micro-letter public "Orange Talk" that the night was late and most of the patients had fallen asleep. Four of us split into two groups and walked through nearly 400 beds one at a time.
方舱里面住的都是轻症的病人，查完房后处理的都是些琐事，有病人觉得睡不着了，觉得血压高了，觉得自己的病情加重了之类的，每每这些都是给病人先测量生命体征，告诉他（她）一切安好，不必太紧张。
The cabin is full of patients with mild illness. After the check-up of the room, the patients feel sleepless, feel high blood pressure, feel worse, and so on. All these are to measure the vital signs of the patient, tell him or her everything is well, and don't be too nervous.
嗯，总的来说，安慰胜于开药；有些实在焦虑的，就给人把把脉，指着我胸口的字说：您看，我是中医的，您的脉象四平八稳，杠杠的没事。
Well, on the whole, comfort is better than medicine; and some, who are really anxious, point their vein to the words on my chest and say, 'You see, I am a Chinese medicine, and your pulse is stable and the bar is fine.
总的来说，安慰为主，开药为辅。
On the whole, comfort prevails and medicine is prescribed as a supplement.
比起2月初刚建设的方舱医院，患者的接受度改善了许多，尽管如此，在沌口方舱医院，每天也要接到十几个患者的投诉。
Although patient acceptance has improved considerably compared with the square-cabin hospital just built in early February, dozens of patients complain every day at the illegible-mouth cabin hospital.
一开始，患者集中在生活起居类的投诉，当物质条件改善后，投诉的问题转变为与诊疗相关的问题，医护被问得最多的问题是，“什么时候可以安排核酸检测？”“什么时候可以安排CT检查？”肖红艳发现，舱内的患者对于诊疗方案的变化了如指掌，第六版方案更新后，每天早上查房时，更多的患者开始问这两个问题。
At first, patients concentrated on living complaints. When the material conditions improved, the problem turned into one related to diagnosis and treatment. The question most frequently asked was, "When can a DNA test be arranged?" "When can a CT examination be arranged?" Xiao Hong Yan found that patients in the cabin know the diagnosis and treatment plan very well.
“对我们来讲，一开始医疗资源和设备还是有限的，不能马上满足患者的要求。
"For us, medical resources and equipment are limited at the outset and do not immediately meet the needs of patients.
”肖红艳说。
'said Xiao Hongyan.
在方舱医院的车载CT没有到位之前，沌口方舱的解决方法是，把患者接到最近的武汉亚心总医院做CT检测。
Before the onboard CT is in place, the solution to the problem is to take the patient to the nearest Wuhan Yaxin General Hospital for CT examination.
开舱的第三天，2月19日，管理人员实践了这一流程，每天的CT检查可以到60例，每20人一批，一位医务人员管理，由通勤大巴接送患者往返方舱和医院之间做CT检查，往返一次需要一小时，一上午的时间做三批病人。
On the third day of the opening, on 19 February, managers put the process into practice, with up to 60 CT examinations per day per group of 20 persons, managed by a medical staff, and using commuter buses to transport patients to and from the cabin and the hospital for CT examinations, which take one hour to make three rounds in the morning.
医护人员最担心的病人在往返途中走失，这也是医护人员最紧张的事情。
The biggest worry for paramedics is that they lose patients on the way back and forth, which is also the most stressful issue for health care workers.
核酸检测，主要由舱内的护士进行取样，移交到舱外，由专人专车送至武汉的国家实验室，每天固定下午一点之前送出全部样本，12小时后大约凌晨一两点，可以收到样本的检测结果。
Nucleic acid testing, mainly by the nurses in the cabin, to the outside of the cabin, a special vehicle to Wuhan National Laboratory, every day before 1 p.m. a fixed delivery of samples, 12 hours after about 1 or 2 a.m., you can receive samples of the test results.
在肖红艳看来，当时这个速度尚可接受，但不算最快。
In Xiao Hongyan's view, the speed was acceptable at the time, but not the fastest.
目前在沌口方舱，每天核酸检测的名额已经从最初的90位增长到180位了。
At present, the number of nucleic acid tests per day in illegible port quarters has increased from the initial 90 digits to 180.
大多数时候，舱内的医护人员更像是患者们的管家，帮忙解决各种基本生活的困难。
Most of the time, the cabin crews act as housekeepers for patients, helping to solve basic life problems.
因为在匆忙间开舱的方舱，生活的基本保障都成问题，就连喝水也是个麻烦事儿。
Because in a hurry to open the cabin, the basic security of life is questionable, even drinking water is a problem.
在沌口方舱医院，配备的是办公室常见的饮水机，“一桶水很快就没有了，饮水机数量也不够。
In the illegible port square cabin hospital, equipped with a common office drinking machine, "a bucket of water soon disappeared, the number of water dispensers is not enough.
”“有的年轻人愿意喝矿泉水，一个人一天发几瓶就能解决了。
"" Some young people like to drink mineral water, and a few bottles a day will do the trick.
但有的患者就要喝热水，可是热水又不够，加热的速度也不够。
But some patients have to drink hot water, but not enough hot water, heating speed is not enough.
”因此，医护人员面临着之前在医院工作时没有的挑战，方舱医院一天要消耗多少水，多少纸张，要用多少厕所？一天会产生多少生活垃圾和医疗废？有没有人运走？运走的流程是什么样子的，谁来运？最终面对这些问题的，还是舱内的医护人员。
As a result, health-care workers face challenges that they did not face when working in hospitals: how much water, how much paper, how many toilets need to be used in a day, how much domestic and medical waste will be generated in a day, who will carry it out, who will deliver it, and who will ultimately face the problems with the medical staff on board.
一线经验是一道防线按照轻症患者一般2周左右痊愈的周期，2月初陆续开建的方舱医院已经迎来治愈出院潮，已有早期建立的方舱医院病人出院完毕，实现闭舱。
First-line experience is that a line of defense in light patients in general about 2 weeks recovery cycle, the beginning of February began to build a hospital has been a cure for the discharge wave, has been built in the early hospital has been out of the hospital has been completed, achieve closure.
张一丹的父亲2月6日进入方舱医院，当初他有些埋怨社区不负责任把他送进方舱，在2月11日他的感觉明显好转时，逐渐放心。
Zhang Yidan's father entered the cabin hospital on Feb. 6. He complained that the community had taken him to the cabin irresponsibly and was relieved when his feeling improved markedly on February 11.
沌口方舱也已陆续有患者出院。
illegible mouth square cabin also has had patient discharge successively.
2月26日及之前的几天，沌口方舱每天大约有15人出院。
On February 26 and the days before, about 15 people were discharged from the capsule every day.
从27日开始，出院的人数开始增多，以平均每天40-60人的速度出院。
Starting on the 27th, the number of discharged patients began to increase, at an average rate of 40-60 per day.
与此同时，几乎没有病人新增入院。
At the same time, few patients were admitted to hospital.
“3月1日有60人出院，明天3月2日会有70人出院，截至3月1日，沌口方舱医院还有700多人。
"On March 1, 60 people will be discharged from hospital, tomorrow, March 2, and as of March 1, more than 700 people will remain in illegible port cabin hospital.
”肖红艳说道。
"said Xiao Hongyan.
首批出舱的患者，是入舱时口头称两次核酸检测阴性、CT阴性的患者，当他们通过家人提供了当初检查时的客观资料后，可优先安排核酸检测和CT检查，若符合出院标准，即可出舱。
The first patients to leave the capsule were those who had verbally stated that they had tested negative for nucleic acid twice when they entered the cabin. After providing objective information at the time of the initial examination through their families, they were given priority for nucleic acid tests and CT examinations and could be released if discharge criteria were met.
“有些想尽快出舱的患者不理解，还会投诉我们。
"Some patients who want to get out of the cabin as soon as possible don't understand and will complain.
但是我们必须要防止传染源在没有彻底治愈之前出院，这些患者还是必须要做核酸检测和CT检查。
But we have to prevent the source of infection from the hospital before a complete cure, these patients still have to do nucleic acid testing and CT examination.
尤其是有些患者提供的报告可能是一个月前的，那他们在这个过程中，还有很大可能被感染。
Some patients, in particular, may have reported a month ago, and there is a high risk of infection in the process.
”根据第六版诊疗方案，出院需要四个标准：体温恢复正常3天以上；呼吸道症状明显好转；肺部影像学显示急性渗出性病变明显改善；以及连续两次呼吸道标本核酸检测阴性（采样时间间隔至少1天）。
According to the sixth edition of the protocol, four criteria were required for discharge: a return to normal body temperature for more than three days; marked improvement in respiratory symptoms; significant improvement in pulmonary imaging of acute exudative lesions; and negative nucleic acid testing in two consecutive respiratory specimens (with a interval of at least one day).
在方舱，肺部CT和核酸检测作为两个客观指标，出院前的检查顺序是先进行两次核酸检测，均为阴性后，安排肺部CT检查。
In the capsule, lung CT and nucleic acid testing are two objective indicators. Before discharge, the sequence of examination is two negative nucleic acid tests, after which CT examination of the lungs is arranged.
检查的安排由医生团队共同决定。
The arrangements for the examination are determined jointly by the team of doctors.
在肖红艳所在的医疗队，医生们达成的共识是，连续三天体温正常是安排核酸检测的必要条件，“如果昨天还在发烧，今天就安排核酸检测，那意义不大。
At Xiao Hongyan's medical team, doctors agreed that three days of normal body temperature was a necessary condition for arranging a nucleic acid test. "If you had a fever yesterday, it doesn't make much sense to schedule a nucleic acid test today.
”发病时长也是一个重要的参考维度，疾病的潜伏期平均7~10天，最长到14天，发病以后有个病程，比如有的患者发病开始到现在已15天了，期间从来没有做过核酸检测，最近三天又不发烧，像这种患者就优先做核酸检测和肺部CT。
Length of onset is also an important dimension of reference, with the incubation period averaging 7-10 days and up to 14 days, with a course of disease following onset, such as nucleic acid testing and pulmonary CT in patients who have never had a nucleic acid test for 15 days and no fever in the last three days.
每天查房时，医生会确定第二天做核酸检测和CT检查的人员名单。
During daily house searches, the doctor determines the list of people who will undergo a nucleic acid test and CT examination the next day.
让核酸阴性、CT阴性的“双阴”患者出院前也必须再次进行检测，多久内的检测报告可以被采纳，哪些患者可以优先排期做检查……这些问题其实并没有任何指南和参考依据，也没有任何一份手册中进行了细致的规定，而是医疗队在一线救治过程中总结的经验。
Nucleic acid-negative, CT-negative "double yin" patients must also be tested again before they are discharged from the hospital, how long the test report can be accepted, and which patients can be prioritized for testing... These questions are not based on any guidelines or guidelines, nor are they carefully defined in any manual, but rather lessons learned by medical teams during first-line care.
出院标准中的“核酸检测两次阴性”，因为核酸检测的阳性率只有30%～50%，因假阴性被诟病，这也一度是方舱医院医生比较担忧的问题。
"Nucleic acid test negative twice" in the discharge criteria, because the positive rate of nucleic acid testing only 30% to 50%, because false negative was criticized, this is also the cabin hospital doctors more worried about the problem.
但这一问题，随着医疗资源的缓解，已有了后续的措施。
But this problem, with the relief of medical resources, has been followed up measures.
2月22日，武汉市新冠肺炎疫情防控指挥部发布公告，从当天开始，治愈出院患者必须到指定场所统一实施为期14天的免费康复隔离和医学观察。
On Feb. 22, the Wuhan Municipal Headquarters for the Prevention and Control of New Crown Pneumonia issued a notice, starting on the same day, patients discharged from hospital must be given 14 days of free rehabilitation isolation and medical observation in designated places.
2月25日，在方舱医院住院半个多月的张一丹父亲两次核酸检测阴性，肺部CT明显好转后出院，转入光谷学校的宿舍，一人一间房，隔离14天。
On 25 February, Zhang Yidan's father, who had been hospitalized for more than half a month, was released from hospital after two negative nucleic acid tests. CT of the lung was apparently better and he was transferred to the dormitory of the Guanggu School, one room for 14 days.
治愈后离开方舱、在一人一间的集中隔离点的患者，有不少人甚至怀念方舱医院。
After the cure left the cabin, in a one-person centralized isolation point, a lot of people even miss the Fang cabin hospital.
＂当时在方舱里，每天心情都挺好，人多一起聊聊天，不会胡思乱想。
"At that time in the cabin, every day in a good mood, people chat together, do not cranky.
病区医护很多，随时一招手，护士就过来了。
There was a lot of medical attention in the area, and the nurse came whenever she waved.
问她们的问题，都会给你解决的，态度都很好的。
Asking them questions will solve them for you. They have a good attitude.
＂一位正在集中隔离的患者说。
"said one patient who was in intensive care.
吴晔婷|撰稿微信号：wytlucky19王晨|统筹 责编微信号：2174127季敏华|责编微信号：janejiminhua我们尊重原创版权，未经允许请勿转载。
Wytlucky19; Wang Chen & # 124; Co-ordinated Aspect Microsignals: 2174127 Season Minhua & # 124; Blame Micro Signal: Janejiminhua. We respect original copyright and do not reproduce it without permission.
授权转载郑琪 微信号:1281949389商务合作上海：leslee 13916263824北京：Jessie 13911125922线索爆料、意见反馈，加入核心读者社群请扫码联系健闻君让朋友们看到你也在看↓↓↓。
Authorized reprint of Zheng Qi microsignal: 1281949389 Commercial Cooperation Shanghai: Leslee 13916263824 Beijing: Jessie 13911125922 Tells burst of material, feedback, join the core reader community, please sweep the code to let your friends see you, too.
健闻吴晔婷。
Nicknamed Wu selected.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉方舱医院高效运行背后。
Wuhan Fangkang Hospital behind the efficient operation.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "八点健闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at eight.
var msg_title = "武汉方舱医院高效运行背后";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "不少患者出院之后，甚至还在怀念方舱医院。
var msg _ desc = & quot; many patients even missed Fang Kang Hospital after they were discharged from hospital.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="八点健闻";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; eight.
