武汉志愿者司机的一个月：3位亲人去世，依旧在坚持。
Wuhan volunteer driver a month: 3 relatives died, still adhere to.
刘倩。
Clinique Liu.
商业人物                      。
Business people.
商业人物。
Business people.
定义中国商业力量。
Defining China's commercial power.
作者：刘倩来源：商业人物（ID：biz-leaders)武汉“封城”，交通停摆，全市紧急征集6000台出租车。
By Liu Qian (ID: biz-leaders) Wuhan "closed the city" traffic stop, the whole city urgently collected 6000 taxis.
武汉市民王文婷应召报名，成为一名志愿者司机，免费接送医护人员和社区居民。
Wuhan city Wang Wenting called to sign up to become a volunteer driver, free transport of medical personnel and community residents.
“做一个问心无愧的人。
"To be a clear conscience.
”作为一名老共产党员的爸爸支持她。
"Her father, an old communist, supported her.
但顶梁柱一样的爸爸倒下了，奶奶、叔叔相继去世。
But the pillar-like father fell, grandmother, uncle passed away one after another.
一个月内，她失去了三位亲人。
Within a month, she had lost three relatives.
她不能拿到骨灰，不能设灵堂，什么事情都做不了，只能偷偷地伤心。
She could not get the ashes, she could not set up a soul house, she could do nothing but secretly grieve.
为了武汉，她和成千上万的志愿者一样，拼尽全力。
For Wuhan, like thousands of volunteers, she tried her best.
她期待着疫情结束后，给母亲一个大大的拥抱，给孩子长久的陪伴，弥补爸爸的遗憾，让时间慢慢修复创伤。
She looked forward to the end of the epidemic, to give her a big hug, to give the children long-term companionship, to make up for dad's regret, and to allow time to heal the wounds.
以下是王文婷的口述：三位亲人相继离世2020年2月24日13点26分，爸爸永远离开了我。
The following is Wang Wenting's oral: Three relatives died in succession February 24, 2020 13: 26, my father left me forever.
爸爸住院的二十多天里，我每天都会跟他视频。
I watched him every day for more than 20 days in hospital.
后来他病情恶化，上了呼吸机，我就让他听我说，只用点头或者摇头，我们一直这样交流。
Then he got sick and went to the ventilator and I told him to just nod or shake his head, and we talked all the time.
22日，爸爸的病情加重了。
On the 22nd, my father's illness got worse.
晚上，爸爸发来一段文字，他说：“婷婷，如果今晚老爸坚持不了，请千万不要怪我，老爸尽力了。
In the evening, Dad sent a text, he said: "Tingting, if Dad can not persist tonight, please don't blame me, Dad did his best.
”我真的很无助，告诉他，“你一定要挺住，我不能没有你。
"I was really helpless and told him," You must hold on, I can't do without you.
”他熬过来了。
"How did you get through?
第二天早上，像是小孩子邀功一样告诉我，他正在吃早点，一个鸡蛋、一个馒头、一碗汤全都吃完了。
The next morning he told me, like a little boy, that he was having breakfast, and that an egg, a steamed bun, and a bowl of soup were all gone.
晚上又说做了复健，我当时很开心，觉得肯定是人有体力了才会做复健，打电话问医生，是不是爸爸的情况好转了，医生说没有，只是为了让他的肺能够运转。
In the evening, I said that I was very happy, I thought it must be physical strength to do physical rehabilitation, call the doctor to ask if Dad is better, the doctor said no, just to let his lung function.
每撑过一天爸爸都会说，“我今天撑过来了”。
Every day after the father will say, "I survived today."
我就会表扬他，“爸爸你真棒，你是我心目中的大英雄”，这样逗逗他，他就会笑。
I would praise him, "Dad, you're great, you're my hero," and tease him, and he would laugh.
那天在视频里，他跟我一起做加油的手势，我还撒娇想让爸爸给我买个手机，他马上给我转了一万块钱。
That day in the video, he and I do cheering gestures, I also want my father to buy me a mobile phone, he immediately gave me 10,000 dollars.
我就是想给他一个念想，一定要让他亲自带我去买，爸爸听了就笑，我记得那是他最后一次对我笑。
I just wanted to give him a thought, must let him personally take me to buy, father listened to laugh, I remember that is the last time he smiled at me.
24日早上，我问爸爸，昨天睡得好吗，他点头，我又问，你现在感觉怎么样，他摇头。
On the morning of the 24th, I asked Dad, Did you sleep well yesterday, he nodded, and I asked, How do you feel now? He shook his head.
我看到爸爸当时很痛苦，想让他多休息，就挂断了视频，但是我没想到，视频挂断的那一下，就是一辈子。
I saw Dad was very painful, want to let him rest more, hung up the video, but I did not expect, the video hang up that moment, is a lifetime.
可能是我想得太美好了，突然说抢救，我一点思想准备都没有。
Perhaps I think too good, suddenly said rescue, I do not have a bit of ideological preparation.
医生告诉我，爸爸的情况很不好，血氧饱和度只有五十多，我求医生一定要救他。
The doctor told me that Dad was in very bad shape. Blood oxygen saturation was only over fifty. I begged the doctor to save him.
医生说，我知道你是一名志愿者，我们会尽百分之百的努力去救你爸爸。
The doctor said, I know you're a volunteer, and we'll do everything we can to save your dad.
下午一点多，医生给我打电话说，“对不起，我们尽力了。
After one o'clock in the afternoon, the doctor called me and said, "I'm sorry, we did our best.
”我爸爸生于1952年9月15日，卒于2020年2月24日，享年67岁。
My father was born on September 15, 1952, and died on February 24, 2020 at the age of 67.
家里第一个生病的是我叔叔。
My uncle was the first to fall ill at home.
1月底的时候，他受凉感冒了，非要跑到医院去检查，排了四五个小时的队没有检查上，又回家了。
At the end of January he caught a cold and had to go to the hospital for tests. After four or five hours, the team did not check and went home again.
回去后就开始发烧，CT显示他被感染了，真的很冤枉。
Back home he had a fever, and CT showed that he was infected. It was a real injustice.
五天后，2月1日，他去世了。
Five days later, on 1 February, he died.
好好的一个人就这么没有了，这是最突然的。
It is the most sudden that a good man is gone.
叔叔被感染后，爸爸接替他去照顾奶奶。
When his uncle got infected, his father took over from him to take care of his grandmother.
明知道很危险，他还是去了，因为我爸爸是个孝子。
Knowing it was dangerous, he went anyway, because my father is a filial son.
妈妈本来不想让他去的，但是爸爸说，从小他就没有在母亲身边，现在想尽一份孝心，如果他的妈妈去世了，哪怕他活下来，这一辈子也会有遗憾。
His mother did not want to let him go, but his father said that he was not with his mother since childhood, now want to do their part of filial piety, if his mother died, even if he survived, it will be a lifelong regret.
奶奶九十多岁了，躺在床上不能动，一直叫不舒服，爸爸一听到动静就起来，几乎五天五夜没有合眼，一直跟奶奶喝白米粥。
Grandma in her 90s, lying in bed unable to move, has been called uncomfortable, my father heard the noise on the rise, almost five days and nights did not sleep, and grandma has been drinking rice porridge.
防护措施就是24小时戴口罩，戴两三层，但这样的情况，怎么可能不被感染。
The protective measure is to wear a mask 24 hours a day and wear two or three layers, but in this case, it is impossible not to be infected.
爸爸被隔离的那天，奶奶在家中去世了。
The day my father was quarantined, Grandma died at home.
直到去世，我们都不知道奶奶有没有被感染，最后的死亡原因是“呼吸衰竭”。
By the time we died, we had no idea if Grandma was infected and the final cause of death was respiratory failure.
从叔叔到奶奶，再到爸爸，真的叫做一步走错，步步都错。
From uncle to grandmother, then to father, really called a step wrong, step by step wrong.
很多人问我，你爸爸照顾奶奶后不后悔，我说他不会后悔，我相信他是没有遗憾地去了天堂。
Many people asked me that your father did not regret taking care of his grandmother, I said he would not regret, I believe he did not regret to go to heaven.
我支持他的决定，就像他支持我一样。
I supported his decision as much as he supported me.
我是一名志愿者司机腊月二十八，“封城”前一天，我所在的公司“T3出行”号召我们加入志愿者行列，我当时就报名了。
The day before the city was closed, my company, T3, called on us to volunteer, and I signed up.
我的爸爸是一名老共产党员，他告诉过我，要做一个让自己问心无愧的人。
My father is an old communist who told me to be a clear conscience.
他给我做了好的榜样，我也想给我的孩子做个榜样，告诉他们，妈妈现在所做的事情，是在为这个社会做贡献，你们长大后也要做一个对社会有贡献的人。
He has set me a good example, and I want to set an example for my children, to tell them that what my mother is doing is contributing to this society, and that you will grow up to be a contributing member of society.
报完名，我才告诉家人。
I told my family when I finished my name.
我老公沉默。
My husband is silent.
我妈妈说太危险了，你想想，你还有两个孩子。
My mom said it was too dangerous. You know, you still have two kids.
我爸爸沉默了一会儿说，你已经报名了，不可能再退出来。
My dad was silent for a moment and said, 'You're already signed up. You can't quit.'
只要你想做，觉得可以胜任，你就去做，家我帮你顶着。
As long as you want to do, feel competent, you do it, I help you at home.
大年初二，我被分配到离家五十公里的东湖高新区。
New Year's Day, I was assigned to 50 kilometers away from the East Lake Hi-tech District.
每天九点半上班，五点半下班，主要负责接送有出行需求的居民，以及帮助居民买菜、买药。
Work at 9: 30 and close at 5: 30 every day, mainly responsible for transportation needs of residents, as well as help residents buy vegetables, medicine.
王文婷(右)工作照排队买药的人非常多，人与人之间间隔一米，队伍非常长，每次都要排两三个小时。
Wang Wenting (right) work in line to buy a very large number of people, one meter between people, the queue is very long, each one has to queue for two or three hours.
我一般先收集居民的需求，再通知药店老板让他提前准备好，趁人少的时候过去拿了就走，但是感冒类的药基本买不到。
I usually collect the needs of residents, and then tell the drugstore owner to be ready ahead of time, to take advantage of the small number of people to take away, but the cold-like medicine can not be bought.
我的工作不允许我去人员密集的地方，我得对自己和大家负责。
My job doesn't allow me to go to crowded places. I have to be accountable to myself and everyone.
买菜也是这样，我隔一段时间就给家里买出好几天的菜。
The same is true of shopping. I buy food for my family for several days every now and then.
送菜送药时，我和老公从来不见面，我把车开到楼下，把东西放在一个地方，打电话告诉我老公，远远地坐在车上看他取走，告诉他一定要先消毒再拿回家。
When the medicine was delivered, my husband and I never saw each other. I drove downstairs, put everything in one place, called my husband, sat in the car from a distance and watched him take it, and told him to disinfect it before I took it home.
我们家防范意识一直很强，一月中旬，进出就戴口罩了，我每天下班之后都会把家里和楼道用消毒水喷一遍。
Our home has been a strong sense of prevention, in mid-January, in and out of wearing a mask, I will be after work every day with disinfectant spray of home and corridor.
口罩非常难买，我没有从药店买到过，做志愿者之后，公司给我们配了口罩、防护服、护目镜。
The mask was very difficult to buy. I didn't buy it from the drugstore. As volunteers, we were provided with masks, protective clothing and goggles.
开始时有些老年人连口罩都不戴，社区工作人员就劝说他们戴上，看到没有口罩的，我们就把自己的分给他们。
At first, some elderly people didn't even wear masks. Community workers persuaded them to wear them. When they saw no masks, we gave them our own.
二月初，我被调去服务苏州来的医疗团队，需要24小时待命，就住进了医疗队所在的酒店。
At the beginning of February, I was assigned to a medical team in Suzhou. I was on 24-hour standby and was admitted to the hotel where the medical team was.
上车前，双方先测体温，一路开着车窗通风，下车后我会花二十到三十分钟给车里外消毒，回房间后再给自己全身消毒。
Before getting on the bus, the two sides take temperature, open the window ventilation, get out of the car I will spend 20 to 30 minutes to disinfect the car, return to the room and then disinfect their whole body.
出一趟车可能来回二十分钟，防护和消毒的时间差不多有一个小时。
A trip can take twenty minutes to and fro, and it takes about an hour to protect and disinfect.
在车上，我不会主动去搭话，他们已经很辛苦了，有时候想安静一下，不要用你的语言去“骚扰”他们，是我对自己的要求。
In the car, I do not take the initiative to talk, they are already very hard, sometimes want to be quiet, do not use your language to "harass" them, is my own requirements.
咨询爸爸的病情，我都觉得我有点过分了，他们总是很关心，给我建议和信心。
When I asked Dad about his illness, I felt I was overdoing it. They were always concerned, giving me advice and confidence.
服务医疗队的第一天，正好是我爸爸从隔离点去住院的日子。
The first day of the medical team, it was my dad's day in the seclusion.
那天我接送了医疗队十多趟，一直忙到凌晨四点，看见他们缺少物资，还联系志愿者捐赠了135个面盆，160箱矿泉水，还有消毒液和酒店里面用的防护服，爸爸那边却一点忙帮不上。
I picked up medical teams a dozen times that day and was busy until 4 a.m., when I saw they were short of supplies and contacted volunteers to donate 135 basins, 160 boxes of mineral water, disinfectant and protective clothing for the hotel.
我相信好人有好报，当时有一点迷信的想法，希望老天能够看到我做的这些事情，眷顾我爸爸。
I believe that good people are rewarded, there was a bit of superstition, hope God can see me do these things, take care of my father.
接到爸爸去世电话时，我正在酒店帮忙搬运物资，一下子哭了出来。
When my father died on the phone, I was at the hotel to help carry supplies, suddenly cried out.
但我不后悔这个选择，就算我在家里，也不可能去医院照顾爸爸，而坚持在一线让我获得了很多信息和建议，可以分享给爸爸。
But I do not regret this choice, even if I am at home, it is not possible to go to the hospital to take care of Dad, but insisted on the line let me get a lot of information and advice to share with Dad.
他知道，我们都尽力了，我也相信，爸爸会为我感到骄傲。
He knows we tried, and I'm sure Dad would be proud of me.
爸爸去世后，公司给了我三天假，我也需要调整一下自己的状态，不想把负面情绪带到工作中来。
After Dad died, the company gave me three days off, and I needed to adjust my attitude so I didn't want to bring negative emotions to work.
现在，我的想法很简单，只要需要我，我就会一直坚持下去。
Now, my idea is simple, as long as you need me, I will stick to it.
我是带着父亲的遗愿在做，要做得更好，让父亲看到，他的女儿绝对不比他差。
I was doing it with my father's will, and it was better for him to see that his daughter was no worse than he was.
带着爸爸的遗愿坚持下去我口中的父亲其实是我公公。
With my father's wishes stick with me My father-in-law is actually my father-in-law.
小时候妈妈抛弃了我，爸爸也在我23岁那年去世了。
My mother abandoned me when I was a child, and my father died when I was 23.
25岁，我嫁给了我老公，十年间，公公婆婆一直把我当亲生女儿，在我心里他们就是我的爸爸妈妈。
I married my husband at age 25, and my parents-in-law treated me as my biological daughter for ten years. In my heart, they were my parents.
爸爸是最疼我的。
Dad loves me the most.
我做网约车司机很累，回到家，爸爸直接把吃的喝的端到我手上；冬天很冷，他就拿吹风机帮我吹热被子；他平时很节约，舍不得吃也舍不得穿，但只要我回家吃饭，就很丰盛，他自己买衣服超过100块钱都嫌贵，却能毫不犹豫给我转账一万块钱买手机。
When I got home, my father brought food and drink directly into my hand. When it was cold in winter, he blew me hot quilt with a hairdryer. He was so economical that he could neither eat nor wear them.
他没能兑现诺言带我去买手机，这件事成为我永远的遗憾了。
He failed to keep his promise to take me to buy a cell phone, this matter has become my eternal regret.
最后没能送他一程，也真的很遗憾。
Finally did not send him a ride, also really very sorry.
现在就是这样无助，知道家人生病了，不能去看，知道家人去世了，不能去送，知道家人火化了，不能拿到骨灰，也不能设灵堂，什么事情都做不了，只能在家里躲着，偷偷地伤心。
I know my family is sick, I can't go to see them, I know my family is dead, I can't send them, I know my family is cremated, I can't get ashes, I can't set up a hall, I can't do anything but hide at home and feel sad secretly.
但是能怎么办呢？生活还是要继续。
But what can be done? Life must go on.
我那天视频的时候跟爸爸说，你放心，我会把家里照顾好，我相信爸爸是带着这句话离开的，他会安心，我也会做到。
I told Dad the other day in the video, you can rest assured, I will take care of the family, I believe Dad is leaving with this sentence, he will be relieved, I will do so.
我已经一个多月没有见过孩子了，他们每晚都要跟我视频，确认我是平安的，跟我说，“妈妈，你一定要保护好自己，任务什么时候做完了，回来陪我们”。
I haven't seen the kids in more than a month. They video me every night to make sure I'm safe and say, "Mom, you have to protect yourself. When is the job done? Come back with us."
他们从来不会说，不让我去了，只会说，“我的妈妈是个大英雄，我以后要像妈妈一样”。
They would never say, "No, not me, just," My mom is a great hero, I'm going to be like my mother. "
我觉得自己的这种行为算不上英雄，这是身为武汉市民应该做的，我们不是为了别人，都是为了自己，做的也是一些很普通的事情，希望武汉能早一点好起来。
I feel this kind of behavior is not a hero, this is the Wuhan city people should do, we are not for others, are for ourselves, do some very common things, hope Wuhan can get better earlier.
疫情结束后，我要做的第一件事，就是回去好好抱抱我的妈妈。
The first thing I need to do after the epidemic is to go back and hug my mother.
我还想带着妈妈去多年前爸爸下乡的地方看看，爸爸生前经常说，他想回去看看，一直没去成，我要替他弥补这个遗憾。
I also want to take my mother to the place where my father went to the countryside many years ago. My father used to say that he wanted to go back to see it, but he never did.
逝者已矣，活着的人还要继续，虽然心里的创伤可能需要很长时间去修复，但我觉得一定会好，乐观一点面对，才能让自己走得更好，也才能够让逝者安息。
The dead are gone, the living continue, and while the trauma may take a long time to repair, I feel sure that I will be better, optimistic, able to walk better and rest the dead.
疫情残忍地剥夺了很多人的生命，但是它也告诉了我们生命的可贵，告诉了我们人间真的还有温情在。
The epidemic has taken the lives of many people in cold blood, but it has also taught us the value of life and that there is real warmth in the world.
疫情过后，我们武汉会像一个真正的大家庭一样更团结，起码在我心里是这样想的。
After the epidemic, we in Wuhan will be as united as a real family, at least in my mind.
*图片为受访者提供推荐阅读严正声明：“商业人物”所有原创文章，转载均须获授权。
* Photo provides a recommended reading for interviewees: All original articles by "business people" must be authorized for reprinting.
一切形式非法转载，包括但不限于盗转、未获“商业人物”授权通过第三方转载行为，均属侵权行为，“商业人物”将公布“黑名单”并追究法律责任。
All forms of illegal reproduction, including, but not limited to, theft and unauthorized reprinting by a third party without the authorization of a "business person," who will publish the "blacklist" and will be held liable.
“商业人物”只愿与尊重知识产权的机构合作。
"Business people" are willing to cooperate only with institutions that respect intellectual property rights.
投稿、约访、合作，联系邮箱：bizleaders@qq.com添加微信biz-leader，获转载授权或邀您加入商友群微信名：商业人物微信ID：biz-leaders1.长按右侧二维码即可关注。
Subscriptions, interviews, collaborations, contact mailboxes: bizleaders @ qq.com, get permission to reprint, or invite you to join the microphone group of business people: micro-ID: biz-leaders1. Click on the two-dimensional code on the right.
2.期待您置顶与星标。
2. Expect you to place your top and star.
欢迎分享与评论，欢迎通过留言或私信方式给我们提供选题线索。
Welcome to share and comment, welcome to leave a message or private letter to us to provide clues to the topic.
3.点击“阅读原文”，看商业人物官网，获取更多精彩内容。
3. Click on "Read the original text" to see the official website of business people, to get more wonderful content.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉志愿者司机的一个月：3位亲人去世，依旧在坚持。
Wuhan volunteer driver a month: 3 relatives died, still adhere to.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "商业人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
var msg_title = "武汉志愿者司机的一个月：3位亲人去世，依旧在坚持";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Wuhan volunteer driver's month: Three loved ones died, still at & quot;;;
var msg_desc = "生活还是要继续。
var msg _ desc = & quot; life continues.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '武汉人在意大利：戴口罩有被打的风险',。
Wuhan is in Italy: AT RISK & amp; APOS AT RISK WITH Mask.
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '航空公司自救30天',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & &; & &; & & &;; & &; & & &;; & &; & & &;; &; &; & &; & &; &; & &; & &; & & &;.
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '8名高管、20多名员工滞留湖北，一家温州工厂的艰难复工',。
& # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '生活正在起变化',。
A: Life is changing & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & & quot; &.
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="商业人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
