老人治愈却不愿出院？上海援鄂心理医疗队领队王振解答“武汉人心理的伤”。
The old man healed but refused to leave hospital? Wang Zhen, the leader of Shanghai medical team, answered "Wuhan people's psychological injury."
黄祺。
Wangqi.
新民周刊                      。
Xinmin Weekly.
新民周刊。
Xinmin Weekly.
深度和角度——这就是我们能做的。
Depth and angle - that's what we can do.
。
.
心理医疗队在疫情发生一个多月的时间点来武汉，时机很好，我们希望在疫情还没有结束的应激期，帮助他把焦虑缓解下来，以免造成长期影响。
The mental health team came to Wuhan more than a month after the outbreak, and it was a good time to help ease his anxiety during the stress period before the outbreak ended, so as to avoid long-term effects.
记者 |黄　祺武汉新冠肺炎疫情一个多月后，以精神科专科医生为主要成员的心理医疗队，由国家卫健委统一组织，从全国各地赶赴武汉。
A mental health team, with psychiatrists as the main members, rushed to Wuhan from all parts of the country by the unified organization of Huang Qi's new crown pneumonia after more than a month.
上海援鄂心理医疗队是首批到达武汉的心理医疗队之一，50名队员来自上海市精神卫生中心和上海各区精神卫生中心。
The team was one of the first psychological teams to arrive in Wuhan, with 50 members from the Shanghai Mental Health Center and the Shanghai Mental Health Centers.
2月21日，上海援鄂心理医疗队抵达武汉，目前已经在6家新冠肺炎定点收治医院和4家方舱医院展开工作。
On February 21, 2006, the Shanghai Psychological Team Hubei arrived in Wuhan and has already started work in six designated hospitals for new crown pneumonia and four in-patient squares.
这是中国第一次大规模组织心理医疗队到疫情重点地区开展心理干预工作，上海、湖南、四川等省市成规模派出8支心理医疗队，共300人在武汉各家医疗机构与临床医生一起为患者提供服务，同时也为医护人员提供心理健康保障。
For the first time in China, a large-scale mental health team was organized to carry out psychological intervention work in key epidemic areas.On a large scale, eight medical teams were sent from Shanghai, Hunan and Sichuan provinces and municipalities.
昨天（3月1日），上海援鄂心理医疗队领队、上海市精神卫生中心副院长接受了《新民周刊》专访。
Yesterday (March 1), Shanghai medical team leader Hubei Mental Health Center, vice-president of the Shanghai Municipal Mental Health Center was interviewed by Xinmin Weekly.
王振介绍，上海援鄂医疗队到达武汉后立即熟悉情况，与当地医疗机构协调沟通，已经于2月26日进入病房开展工作。
Wang said that immediately after their arrival in Wuhan, the Shanghai medical team to Hubei familiarized itself with the situation and coordinated communication with the local medical institutions.
王振在武汉金银潭医院病房内与病人交谈王振认为，目前无论定点医院的重症病人还是方舱医院的轻症患者都有部分人存在不同程度的心理问题。
Wang Zhen, who spoke with patients in the ward of Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, said some people suffer from various psychological problems, whether they are serious patients in designated hospitals or light cases in the Fang Cao Hospital.
在疫情进展到一个多月的时间点有序、科学地开展心理干预，是一个非常及时和恰当的措施。
It is a very timely and appropriate measure to carry out psychological intervention in an orderly and scientific way at more than a month.
经过几天的摸排，王振发现，患病老人以及患病儿童和疫情中失去亲人的儿童，是这次疫情中让他非常担心的群体，未来需要对这些群体进行重点的干预和长期的跟踪。
After several days of mapping, Wang Zhen found that the elderly and sick children and children who lost loved ones in the epidemic were a very worrying group for him in the epidemic, requiring focused intervention and long-term follow-up in the future.
早期“救命”，现在“救心”《新民周刊》：您工作的武汉金银潭医院，主要收治重症患者，您目前看到患者中精神状况如何？王振：在定点收治医院工作的心理医疗队队员主要以联络会诊的形式为病人服务，也就是说，临床医生发现某些患者可能出现心理问题，就会让我们去做专科的检查和诊断。
"Help" early, "now" save the heart "" Xinmin Weekly ": you work in Wuhan gold and silver pool hospital, mainly to treat patients with serious illnesses, you see how the mental state of patients? Wang Zhen: The mental health team members working in designated hospitals mainly serve patients in the form of liaison visits.
昨天我们会诊三位病人，其中一位老年患者已经出现抑郁症状，而且初步判断达到了中度抑郁。
Yesterday, we had a consultation with three patients, one of whom had depressive symptoms and was initially judged to be moderately depressed.
这位老人老伴过世多年，之前一个人生活，自己照料自己没有太大问题。
The old man died many years ago, before living alone, taking care of himself is not too big a problem.
住进金银潭医院后，是我们上海援鄂医疗队负责治疗的。
After being admitted to the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, our medical team in Shanghai was responsible for the treatment.
经过治疗他恢复得挺快，但心理状态一直不太好。
He recovered fairly quickly after treatment, but he remained mentally ill.
没有治愈时，他常常吵着要出院，其实这是一种焦虑恐惧的表现。
When there was no cure, he would often clamor to be discharged from the hospital, which was a sign of anxiety and fear.
现在他治愈可以出院了，他又坚决不肯出院。
Now that he was cured and discharged, he was adamantly refused to be discharged.
临床医生说，通知他出院，他坚决拒绝，不跟医生说话，非常烦躁，甚至有轻生厌世的想法。
The clinician said he was told to leave the hospital, he refused resolutely, did not talk to the doctor, was very irritable, and even had a world-weary thought.
我们进病房到床边和他交流，他起初也不肯讲话，后来他终于说出来，他最担心的是孩子不欢迎他回家。
We went to the bedside to talk to him, and at first he refused to talk. Then he finally said that what worried him most was that the child did not welcome him home.
老人内心是非常渴望回家的，但孩子可能跟他说，怕他回去生活不方便，大家都在隔离，家里没有能力照顾他。
The old man was very anxious to go home, but the child might tell him that he was afraid of the inconvenience of going back to life, that everyone was isolated and that the family could not take care of him.
因为这种担心，他就不想出院。
Because of this fear, he did not want to leave the hospital.
再加上医院里医护人员对他照顾得很好，这一对比，心里就会很难过，感觉自己有家不能回，慢慢地产生一些消极的想法。
This, coupled with the fact that the hospital staff took good care of him, made him feel sad and unable to go home, slowly generating some negative thoughts.
知道他的想法，我们先做了一些认知上的疏导，告诉他出院后隔离期间社区都有相应的生活安排。
Knowing what he was thinking, we did a bit of cognitive disorientation and told him that the community had a life plan during the isolation period.
然后引导他理解子女的本意不是嫌弃他，教会他如何与子女沟通。
Then guide him to understand that the intention of the child is not to reject him, teach him how to communicate with his children.
同时引导他疏泄自己的悲伤情绪。
At the same time guide him to relieve his sadness.
经过近半小时的心理疏导，老人的情绪有所平复，但由于其抑郁症状仍然较明显，我们也给他开了药物。
After nearly half an hour of psychological counseling, the old man's mood calmed down, but as his depression was still more pronounced, we prescribed medication for him.
金银潭医院没有所需要的抗抑郁药，就在你给我电话之前，我刚刚协调好了，通过武汉市精神卫生中心的协助把药调到医院。
Gold and Silver Pool Hospital doesn't have the antidepressants you need. Just before you called me, I just coordinated the transfer to the hospital with the help of Wuhan Mental Health Center.
《新民周刊》：另外两位患者症状要轻一些是吗？王振：是的。
Xinmin Weekly: The other two patients have less symptoms, don't they? Wang Zhen: Yes.
有一位中年患者，肺炎也已经治愈了，之前他可以在病房里走动，各方面都很好了。
One middle-aged patient, who had already been cured of pneumonia, had been able to walk around the ward in all respects.
有一天医生通知他可以出院了，结果第二天他马上就起不了床。
One day the doctor told him he could leave the hospital, but the next day he couldn't get up.
临床医生知道他是心理症状引起的躯体反应，但不知道该如何处理。
The clinician knew that he was a somatic response caused by psychological symptoms, but did not know what to do with it.
这位患者说，他担心：万一再生病没有医生救我怎么办？万一我没有真正好怎么办？住在医院里他觉得很安全，回家不安全。
The patient said he was worried: What if I get sick again without a doctor? What if I don't feel really better? He feels safe in the hospital and unsafe to go home.
我们进去之后给他做了一些心理疏导，教他做些放松练习，沟通之后他基本上就好了。
We went in and gave him some psychological counseling, taught him some relaxation exercises, and he was basically OK after the communication.
上海精神卫生中心三位精神科医生在武汉金银潭医院《新民周刊》：我们想象中，病好了要出院了，应该很高兴。
Three psychiatrists from the Shanghai Mental Health Center at Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital told Xinmin Weekly: We should be glad to be out of the hospital when we get well.
没想到快出院的病人容易出现心理问题。
Unexpectedly, the patient who is leaving hospital is easy to have psychological problem.
王振：病情重的时候，来不及顾及心理上的感受，那时候救命要紧，等到患者身体上的疾病缓解了，心理症状就表现出来了。
Wang Zhen: When the disease is serious, it is too late to take into account the psychological feelings, when life-saving important, until the disease on the patient's body alleviated, psychological symptoms manifested.
我们心理医疗队在疫情发生一个多月的时间点来武汉，时机很好，我们希望在疫情还没有结束的应激期，帮助他把焦虑缓解下来，以免造成长期影响。
Our mental health team came to Wuhan more than a month after the outbreak, and it was a good time to help ease his anxiety during the stress period before the outbreak was over, so as not to have long-term effects.
因为早期主要任务是救治病人，心理医生在“救命”部分没有太大的用武之地，甚至会添乱。
Because the main task in the early treatment of patients, psychiatrists in the "life-saving" section do not have too much use, or even add chaos.
而到了疫情中后期，国家卫健委及时派出心理医疗队这个决策是很重要的。
In the middle and later stages of the epidemic, it is very important for the National Health Commission to dispatch psychological medical teams in time.
孩子和老人，疫情中的弱者《新民周刊》：患者中还有哪些心理问题是比较特殊的？王振：我们上海心理医疗队有几位同事工作的医院，收治了一些养老院转过来的患者，其中一部分患者患有阿尔茨海默症（老年痴呆），或者是阿尔茨海默症早期。
Children and the Elderly, Weak People in the Epidemic What other psychological problems are special among the sufferers? Wang Zhen: Our Shanghai mental health team has several colleagues working in the hospital and has treated patients transferred from nursing homes, some of whom have Alzheimer's disease (Alzheimer's) or early Alzheimer's disease.
这些患者中有部分无法不配合治疗，会成倍增加医护人员的工作量，可能医护人员照顾这一个病人，其他七八个病人就应付不过来。
Some of these patients are unable to co-operate with the treatment and will multiply the workload of the medical staff. Perhaps the other seven or eight patients cannot cope with the care of one patient.
我们接到会诊要求后，通过药物治疗和部分的支持性情绪疏导，帮助患者更好地配合治疗。
We received consultation requests, through drug treatment and part of supportive emotional counseling, to help patients better coordinate treatment.
比如对那些睡眠颠倒的阿尔茨海默症患者夜间出现的行为紊乱，我们可以给一些具有镇静作用的抗精神病药物，既改善了行为，又改善了睡眠。
For example, if sleep-turned-upside Alzheimer's patients develop night-time behavioral disorders, we can give sedative antipsychotics that both improve behavior and sleep.
《新民周刊》：还有什么群体是您认为需要特别重视的？王振：孩子！这是我认为特别需要关注的群体。
Xinmin Weekly: What other groups do you think need special attention? Wang Zhen: Children! This is the group that I think needs special attention.
上海心理医疗队有一组同事在武汉市儿童医院，那里收治了一些儿童患者。
A team from the Shanghai Psychological Medical Team was at Wuhan Children's Hospital, where some children were treated.
我最担心的是他们的未来。
What concerns me most is their future.
这次新冠肺炎疫情中不少是一家人感染的，这些孩子里可能有部分孩子的父母因为这个病去世了，他们的心理的问题，需要我们关注。
Many of these children may have lost their parents to the disease, and their psychological problems need our attention.
目前我们还在做筛查，看看每个孩子大概是什么情况。
We're still doing screening to see what each child might be like.
这个筛查做起来不容易，因为有的孩子可能并不知道家里人的情况，大人和孩子在不同的地方治疗。
This screening is not easy because some children may not know about their families and adults and children are treated in different places.
《新民周刊》：最近也看到很多让人痛心的新闻事件，比如一个孩子和爷爷住在一起，社区人员敲开他家门的时候，小朋友爷爷已经死亡两三天。
NEWSWEEK: There have been a lot of harrowing news stories lately, like a child living with his grandpa and the children's grandfather dying for two or three days when community members knock on his door.
还有一个女孩，追着灵车喊妈妈。
There was a girl who chased the hearse and called to her mother.
这些孩子，心理创伤是不是会很大？王振：是的。
These kids, will the psychological trauma be very big? Wang Zhen: Yes.
目前我们的工作还局限在医疗机构，武汉社区中因疫情受到直接心理伤害的孩子，我们还无法顾及，希望社会各界关注他们。
At present, our work is limited to medical institutions, Wuhan community because of the direct psychological damage to the children, we can not take care of, hope that the community attention to them.
传染病疫情“慢性应激反应”与地震不同《新民周刊》：我们看到方舱医院里的患者跳起了广场舞，轻症患者的心理健康状况是不是比较好？王振：我们上海心理医疗队50名医生分成了10个小组，分到了10家医院，其中6家定点医院，4家是方舱医院，每个小组5名医生。
We have seen patients in Fang Cao Hospital dance in the square, is the mental health status of the light-disease sufferers better? Wang Zhen: Our Shanghai mental health team of 50 doctors divided into 10 groups, six designated hospitals and four square-cabin hospitals, each with five doctors.
方舱医院里的情况和定点医院非常不一样。
The situation at the cabin hospital is very different from that at the designated hospital.
方舱医院里人多，有的是上千人。
There were thousands of people in the cabin hospital.
方舱医院患者心理问题比较常见的是焦虑。
Anxiety is the common psychological problem of patients in the cabin hospital.
引起焦虑的原因除了疾病本身以外主要还是对未来的不确定感引发担忧。
Anxiety is caused not only by the disease itself, but also by a sense of uncertainty about the future.
比如他们出舱后还要去隔离，对那里的生活安排有些担忧；另外他们也担心回到家里会不会被别人歧视或者排斥。
For example, when they leave the cabin, they have to go into quarantine, worried about the living arrangements there, and whether they will be discriminated against or ostracized when they return home.
还有一个比较常见的症状是失眠。
Another common symptom is insomnia.
失眠的原因一方面是对方舱医院环境的不适应，另一方面也有对疫情的担忧，因为整个疫情还没有结束，心理应激还是有的。
On the one hand, the cause of insomnia is the other side of the cabin hospital environment, on the other hand, there are concerns about the epidemic, because the whole epidemic is not over, psychological stress is still there.
方舱医院里抑郁的情况相对并不多，但是如果焦虑情绪得不到缓解的话，持续的时间过长了，影响就会比较严重，部分人也可能出现抑郁情绪。
Depression is relatively rare in a cabin hospital, but if anxiety does not subside, it lasts longer, and some people may experience depression.
总的来说，目前主动向医护人员表达自己情绪问题的患者中，大约50%的患者需要做一些心理干预，但他们的心理问题程度比较轻，我们可以采取多种形式干预。
In general, about 50 per cent of patients who now actively express their emotional problems to health-care workers need some psychological intervention, but their psychological problems are less severe and we can intervene in many forms.
50位来自上海市精神卫生中心和上海各区精神卫生中心的专科医生组成上海援鄂医疗队《新民周刊》：心理医生在方舱医院有哪些心理干预的措施？王振：大家都看到患者跳广场舞，其实我来了之后也和一线的医生做了一些交流，医生认为广场舞不是每个人都适合跳的，有的患者假如肺功能恢复得还不是特别好的话，建议不要去跳广场舞。
Some 50 specialists from Shanghai Mental Health Center and Shanghai Mental Health Centers formed the Shanghai medical team Xinmin Weekly: What psychological intervention measures did the psychiatrist have in the square hospital? Wang Zhen: We all saw the patients dancing in the square, actually I had some exchanges with the front-line doctors.
做做呼吸操比较好，运动量不大，又能调节呼吸功能，还是适量的活动比较好。
Do breathing exercise is better, exercise is not big, can adjust breathing function again, or appropriate activity is better.
方舱医院里的患者总体心理健康还是比较好的，这与方舱医院整体协调和管理以及后勤保障到位有重要关系，比如患者的伙食供应就很好，但更重要的原因是参与方舱工作的医生护士都非常敬业，对患者都非常关心，医患关系的融洽也有利于减少疾病对患者的不良影响。
The general mental health of the patients in the cabin hospital is still relatively good, which is closely related to the overall coordination and management of the cabin hospital and the logistics. For example, the patient's food supply is very good, but more importantly, the doctors and nurses working in the cabin are very dedicated and attentive to the patients.
对于有需要心理干预的患者，我们采取了多种心理干预措施。
For patients in need of psychological intervention, we have taken a variety of psychological interventions.
比如说方舱医院都有广播系统，我们这两天在忙着录制各种各样的音频节目，给患者提供一些心理健康知识、心理防护知识。
For example, the cabin hospital has a broadcasting system, we have been busy these two days recording various audio programs, to provide patients with some knowledge of mental health, psychological protection.
另一个重要的工作是对患者进行心理筛查。
Another important task is the psychological screening of patients.
医疗队和上海交大合作，建了一个评估系统，我们在方舱医院里贴上二维码，我们的医生防护服上也贴着二维码，患者扫码后做自助心理评估，患者自己看到结果可以主动来找心理医生。
In cooperation with the Shanghai Diplomatic University, an evaluation system was set up. We put two-dimensional codes on the cabin hospital and two-dimensional codes on our doctor's protective clothing.
医生在后台也可以看到调查结果，医生如果发现情况比较严重的患者，可以主动联系患者及时进行干预。
Doctors in the background can also see the results of the investigation, if the doctor found more serious patients, can contact the patient to intervene in a timely manner.
等大量的患者调查结果出来之后，我们对患者情况的了解会更准确。
We will have a more accurate picture of the patient's condition when a large number of patient surveys are available.
我们还做了很多心理健康科普的资料，准备带进方舱医院发给患者，也利用微信的推文，让患者了解更多的心理知识和自助方法。
We also did a lot of mental health science materials, ready to be taken to the cabin hospital for distribution to patients, but also using micro-letter tweets to let patients know more about psychology and self-help methods.
王振在武汉与上海交大科研团队召开线上会议，研究为疫情中的患者和医护人员做心理评估和治疗的工具《新民周刊》：和地震、火灾等等灾难相比，传染病疫情中的患者，他们的心理问题有什么不一样？王振：传染病疫情和地震不一样，地震、火灾都是一次性就过去了，传染病持续的时间长，很多人会因为持续存在的慢性应激而产生心理问题。
What are the different psychological problems of patients suffering from infectious diseases compared with earthquakes, fire and other disasters? Wang Zhen: Unlike earthquakes and earthquakes, earthquakes and fires are all over in one go, infectious diseases last for a long time, and many people suffer from chronic stress.
无论是火灾还是地震，它是局限在特定区域内的。
Whether fire or earthquake, it is limited to a specific area.
即使是汶川地震这么大的一个地震，也仅仅在四川省内，其他地方不太会受到影响。
Even an earthquake as large as the Wenchuan earthquake, only in Sichuan Province, other places will be less affected.
而传染病不一样，尤其像这次这种传染病，它扩散得非常快，每一个人都在潜在的危险之中，所以它很容易造成全社会的恐慌，即使你周围还没出现感染者，你也处于恐慌之中，因为你不知道明天会不会发生在自己身上。
Unlike infectious diseases, especially this one, which spreads very fast and everyone is in potential danger, it can easily cause panic throughout the community. Even if you don't have an infected person around you, you're in a panic because you don't know if tomorrow will happen to you.
现实的威胁会导致人们的焦虑水平大幅度提升，这和地震和火灾完全不同，影响到的人群不是一个数量级的。
A real threat can lead to a dramatic rise in anxiety levels, unlike earthquakes and fires, which do not affect people by an order of magnitude.
在疫情严重的地区，就像武汉的这些人，有可能带来创伤后应激障碍，尤其对那些自身患病，而且是留有后遗症的，或者是家里有亲属去世的，或者自己目睹了亲属、周围人去世的这些人，可能后续会出现这个疾病。
In areas with severe epidemics, such as those in Wuhan, it is possible that post-traumatic stress disorder, especially for those who are themselves ill and who have left a legacy, or who have relatives in their families who have died, or who have witnessed the death of relatives or people close to them, may subsequently develop the disease.
但我们也发现，中国的传统文化对我们的心理健康有很大的保护作用，所以后期真正发生创伤性应激障碍的比例和西方报告的数据比起来可能会低一些。
However, we also found that the traditional Chinese culture has a strong protective effect on our mental health, so the actual rate of traumatic stress disorder in the later period may be lower than the Western reported data.
在这种群体危机事件时，中国人的心理韧性似乎更强，比如“大难不死必有后福”等传统的信念在面对大的灾难时有它非常积极的意义，对保护我们的心理健康是有帮助的。
The Chinese seem to be more psychologically resilient in times of mass crisis, and traditional beliefs such as "good times without evil" have a very positive effect on protecting our mental health in the face of major disasters.
另外一个必须强调的是我们的国家和政府采取的强有力的应对机制，面对疫情时的强大动员和协调能力，无形之中能够增强了人们的信心和安全感。
It is also important to highlight the strong response mechanisms adopted by our countries and Governments, which, in the face of the epidemic, can invisibly enhance the confidence and security of the people.
《新民周刊》：新冠肺炎疫情中心理干预的介入，您认为是不是比过去有了很大的进步？王振：2008年汶川地震后，当时有不少心理医生或者心理咨询人员，他们以志愿者的身份到灾区去工作。
WangZhen: After the Wenchuan earthquake in 2008, there were a lot of psychologists and counselors who went to work as volunteers in the disaster area.
他们的愿望是好的，但因为心理干预工作组织比较混乱，有的人反而给灾民带去二次创伤。
Their desire is good, but because psychological intervention is poorly organized, some people bring secondary trauma to the victims.
有一些心理咨询师专业能力不足，到现场的话也会给自身带来一些麻烦。
Some counselors lack of professional ability to go to the scene will also bring some trouble to themselves.
经过汶川地震等灾害后，心理干预领域总结经验教训，现在各方面对心理干预的重视程度、组织能力和专业性都比当年进步很多了。
After Wenchuan earthquake and other disasters, the field of psychological intervention summed up the lessons learned, now each side in the face of psychological intervention emphasis, organizational capacity and professionalism are much better than that of the year.
《新民周刊》：这些年重大灾害和传染病中，越来越多地看到心理医生的身影，你们的工作取得哪些效果？王振：在我的记忆里上海在灾害事件后第一时间进行大规模的心理干预是11·15火灾后。
In recent years, more and more psychologists have been seen in major disasters and infectious diseases, what effect have you had on your work? Wang Zhen: In my memory, the first large-scale psychological intervention in Shanghai in the immediate aftermath of the disaster was after the 11-15 fire.
火灾发生后不到24小时，上海精神卫生中心的心理干预队伍就已经进入现场。
Within 24 hours of the fire, psychological intervention teams from the Shanghai Mental Health Center were on the scene.
我们对受灾的群众做心理筛查和辅导，那是一次非常成功的心理危机干预行动。
We provided psychological screening and counselling to the affected population, which was a very successful psychological crisis intervention.
这些经验对于后续各种突发事件中的心理干预工作，起到了很好的示范作用。
These experiences have played a good exemplary role in the follow-up of psychological intervention in various emergencies.
后来我们的心理医疗队还参与了外滩踩踏事故、多次外地的爆炸事故、沉船事故等，效果都是比较好的。
Later, our psychological medical team also participated in the Bund stampede accident, many field explosion accident, shipwreck accident and so on, the effect is relatively good.
如果说传染病疫情的干预，2003年SARS的时候，上海市精神卫生中心的徐一峰教授和黄继忠教授就去了收治非典病人的上海市公共卫生中心工作。
If the outbreak of infectious diseases intervened, in 2003 when SARS occurred, Professor Xu Yifeng and Professor Huang Jizhong of the Shanghai Mental Health Center went to work at the Shanghai Public Health Center for SARS patients.
那时候条件有限，没有视频电话，也不像现在人人有手机，医生只能隔着窗子，在纸板上写字指导。
Conditions were limited, there were no video phones, and unlike today when everyone had a cell phone, doctors could only write on cardboard through the window.
那可以说是我们第一次正式的心理危机干预尝试。
It was our first formal attempt at psychological crisis intervention.
去年年底内蒙古鼠疫，上海也派去了心理医生。
Nei Mongol plague late last year, Shanghai also sent a psychologist.
2003年后经过几次大的事件，国内逐渐建立起了心理危机干预的应急体系，一旦出现灾害、疫情，可以很快响应。
After several major events in 2003, China gradually set up a psychological crisis intervention emergency system, once the emergence of disasters, epidemics, can respond quickly.
随着社会的发展，心理健康体系、心理应急机制逐渐成熟，各种预案逐渐完备，一旦疫情发生，各个应急系统就启动了。
With the development of society, mental health system, psychological emergency mechanism gradually mature, the various plans gradually complete, once the outbreak of various emergency systems started.
武汉疫情一出现，上海市精神卫生中心就已经在做准备，尤其当看到武汉的一家精神专科医院出现医护人员感染后，我们已经做好了必要时去接管部分病区的准备，但后来我们武汉的同道非常艰苦但勇敢地撑了过来。
As soon as the Wuhan epidemic broke out, the Shanghai Mental Health Center was already making preparations, especially after seeing the infection of medical staff in a Wuhan specialized hospital. We were ready to take over parts of the area when necessary.
《新民周刊》：心理医疗队到武汉还有一个任务是保障医护人员的心理健康，目前您认为医护人员的情况如何？王振：这几天我们接触比较多的是上海援鄂医疗队的医护人员，总体大家情况还不错，比较常见的问题主要是失眠。
At present, what do you think of the situation of medical staffs in Wuhan? Wang Zhen: In recent days, we have had more contact with the medical staff of the medical team in Hubei Province.
失眠的原因有几个：首先我们这次来一线的护士很多是高年资的，不少都是护士长，他们平常工作已经不翻班了，到武汉后按照普通护士排班，生物钟调整的困难会造成失眠。
There are several reasons for insomnia: First of all, we come to the front of many nurses are senior, many are head nurses, their normal work has not turned over, after Wuhan according to ordinary nurses shift, biological clock adjustment difficulties will cause insomnia.
另外，在重症隔离病房工作的医护人员，承受着心理和体力上的双重压力，患者病情很重，医护人员经常要面对治疗无效死亡这样的事件，对他们心理上的冲击很大，从而引起包括焦虑在内的一些情绪波动，这也是失眠的一个重要原因。
In addition, medical staff working in ICU suffer from both psychological and physical stress. Patients are very ill, and medical staff are often confronted with events such as ineffective treatment of death, which has a strong psychological impact on them and causes some mood swings, including anxiety, which is also an important cause of insomnia.
我们这次来了之后，碰到一些失眠、焦虑的医护人员，都在做相应的处理。
We came here this time, encountered some insomnia, anxious medical personnel, are doing the corresponding treatment.
我觉得后面会慢慢好起来，但是如果说救治工作持续时间过长，想家也是影响医护人员心理状态的因素。
I think the later will gradually improve, but if the duration of the treatment work too long, homesickness is also affecting the mental state of health-care personnel.
他们很多人已经到武汉一个多月了，都会盼着回家。
Many of them have been in Wuhan for more than a month and will be looking forward to going home.
而且，一方面是想回家、想休息，一方面我们的医护人员都是非常敬业的，是非常主动来武汉参与救治的，他们又想把眼前工作做好，那么内心就会有矛盾和冲突。
Moreover, on the one hand, we want to go home, want to rest, on the one hand, our medical staff are very dedicated, is very active to Wuhan, and they want to do a good job, then there will be internal contradictions and conflicts.
虽然整体我持谨慎乐观的态度，但也担心有的医护人员不太愿意讲出自己内心的想法，怕别人觉得他很脆弱，怕被别人误解，所以接下来还要做更细致的工作，筛查出那部分没有把真实的想法和情绪表露出来的人员。
While I am cautiously optimistic, I am concerned that some healthcare professionals are reluctant to share their inner thoughts, fearing that others may feel vulnerable and misunderstood, and will do more detailed work to screen out those who do not reveal their true thoughts and emotions.
征集令《新民周刊》现面向全国征集新冠肺炎采访对象和真实故事：如果你是参与抗击新冠肺炎疫情的医护人员或其家属，我们希望聆听你的“战疫”故事，也希望传达你的诉求。
Call for orders The New People's Weekly is now soliciting interviews and true stories from all over the country: If you are a healthcare worker or family member involved in the fight against the outbreak, we hope to hear your "epidemic" story and convey your message.
如果你是确诊、疑似患者本人或家属，我们希望了解你和家人如何“抗疫”的过程，让外界了解你的真实经历。
If you are a confirmed, suspected patient or family member, we would like to know how you and your family have responded to the epidemic and let the outside world know about your true experience.
如果你是疫情严重地区的普通市民，我们希望展现你的乐观，并倾听你所需的帮助。
If you are an ordinary citizen of a highly affected area, we hope to show your optimism and listen to the help you need.
如果你是公共服务人员或各类捐助者，我们希望看到你的“最美逆行”，记录下你的无私。
If you are a public service provider or a variety of donors, we want to see your "most beautiful retrograde" and record your selflessness.
如今，各行各业开始陆续有序复工，如何在疫情中有序恢复经济生产，我们希望了解其中的困难，或是暖心故事。
We would like to know the difficulties or heartwarming stories of how to resume economic production in an orderly fashion in all walks of life.
……抗击新冠肺炎疫情，我们诚征对疫情了解的社会各界人士，提供相关线索，说出你的故事，让我们用新闻留存这一切。
To fight the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic, we sincerely invite all sectors of the community to understand the epidemic, provide relevant clues, tell your story, let us use the news to retain all this.
《新民周刊》新冠肺炎线索征集值班编辑联系方式（添加时请简要自我介绍）：周一：应　琛　微信号：paulineying0127周二：金　姬　微信号：gepetta周三：黄　祺　微信号：shewen-2020周四：周　洁　微信号：asyouasyou周五：孔冰欣　微信号：kbx875055141周六：吴　雪　微信号：shyshine1105周日：姜浩峰　微信号：jianggeladandong✳如你需要捐赠物资，可与以下两位工作人员联系:王勇：WangYong-SH吴轶君：rommy150708（添加时请注明“捐物资”，方便工作人员快速通过您的申请，谢谢。
WangYong-SH micro-signaling: Zhou Jie micro-signaling: Zhou Jie micro-signals: kbx875055141 Friday: kbx875055141 If you need a donation, please contact: Wang Yong-SH micro-signaling: kbx875055141 Sunday: Wu Xue micro-signal: JiangHao Feng micro-signal: www.jinggeladandong: www.youtheme.cn
）新闻是历史的底稿，你们是历史的见证者。
) News is the manuscript of history, and you are witnesses to it.
期待你的故事、你的线索！▼大家还都在看这些▼·4万包卫生巾上热搜，在这场向一线女医务人员捐卫生用品的接力中，上海最早行动·“香饽饽”月嫂竟流落街头？疫情之下，家政行业如何有序复工，保障“一老一小”两大刚需·口述实录 | 我大年夜出发去美国自助游，直到现在还被困在旧金山新民周刊所有平台稿件，未经正式授权一律不得转载、出版、改编或进行与新民周刊版权相关的其他行为，违者必究。
Why don't we all go over the top four thousand bags of sanitary napkins We're still in the middle of a relay of donations of sanitary wares to front-line medical staff.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
老人治愈却不愿出院？上海援鄂心理医疗队领队王振解答“武汉人心理的伤”。
The old man healed but refused to leave hospital? Wang Zhen, the leader of Shanghai medical team, answered "Wuhan people's psychological injury."
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "新民周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "老人治愈却不愿出院？上海援鄂心理医疗队领队王振解答“武汉人心理的伤”";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Old man cured but refused to be discharged? Wang Zhen, the leader of Shanghai's Hubei Psychological Team, answered & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "心理医疗队在疫情发生一个多月的时间点来武汉，时机很好。
var msg _ desc = & quot; the psychological team arrived in Wuhan more than a month after the outbreak, at a good time.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '4万包卫生巾上热搜，在这场向一线女医务人员捐卫生用品的接力中，上海最早行动',。
At & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '新民周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '“香饽饽”月嫂竟流落街头？疫情之下，家政行业如何有序复工，保障“一老一小”两大刚需',。
Bobo: Bobo & amp; quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;
subject_name: '新民周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '口述实录 | 我大年夜出发去美国自助游，直到现在还被困在旧金山',。
I set out for the American buffet at New Year's Eve only to be stranded at San Francisco & apos; s service.
subject_name: '新民周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
var title ="新民周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
