中国延缓了病毒的全球传播，各国公卫比拼才刚刚开始 | 专访北大宁毅。
China has slowed the global spread of the virus, and public health officials have just begun to visit Beijing Ningyi.
孙滔。
Sun Tao.
DeepTech深科技                      。
Deep Technology DeepTech.
DeepTech深科技。
Deep Technology DeepTech.
DeepTech是一家关注新兴科技产业化的全链条内容、服务、数据和投融资平台，致力于构建一个全球科技创新合作网络。
DeepTech is a whole chain of content, services, data, and investment and financing platforms that focus on the industrialization of emerging technologies, and is committed to building a global science, technology, and innovation collaborative network.
。
.
新冠疫情是一场全球灾难，也是各国公共卫生的练兵场。
The New Crown Epidemic is a global disaster and a training ground for national public health.
按照世界卫生组织专家、伦敦卫生和热带医学院流行病专家戴维 · 海曼（David Heymann）教授的观点，阻止新冠病毒传播的更重要的因素是一个国家医疗保健体系的实力，是其立即监测和治疗可能出现症状的患者的能力。
According to World Health Organization expert David Heymann, an epidemiologist at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, the more important factor preventing the spread of the new crown virus is the strength of a country's health-care system, its ability to immediately monitor and treat potential patients.
那么一个国家的公共卫生实力究竟为何？曾任美国疾病控制与预防中心主任、现为非营利组织 “拯救生命的决心” 工程（Resolve to Save Lives）总裁兼首席执行官汤姆 • 弗里登（Tom Frieden）认为，筛查早期疫情的早期预警系统、实验室信息交互网络、疾病检测设施、快速应急小组，以及沟通、法律、物流和规划能力，这些都是阻止疫情爆发失控的必需要素。
Tom Frieden, former director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and now president and chief executive of the non-profit Resolve to Save Lives, argues that early warning systems to screen for early outbreaks, interactive laboratory information networks, disease-detection facilities, rapid response teams, and communication, legal, logistical, and planning capabilities are all necessary to stop the outbreak from spiraling out of control.
图 | 全国新型冠状病毒肺炎累计确诊病例分布图(3 月 1 日)。
Figure # 124; Distribution of cumulative confirmed cases of new coronavirus pneumonia nationwide (March 1).
（来源：中国疾控中心）以早期预警为例，“在本次疫情中，中国实际上错过了早期预警的窗口，从而导致当我们想要启动全国疫情防控时，需要花费数以千倍的代价和资源。
(Source: China CDC) Take early warning as an example: "In this epidemic, China has effectively missed the window for early warning, leading to thousands of costs and resources when we want to initiate national epidemic prevention and control."
”这是复旦大学附属华山医院感染科主任张文宏团队给出的分析，相关文章于 2 月 28 日发表在公众号 “华山感染” 上。
This is the analysis given by Zhang Wenhong, director of infection at Fudan University's Huashan Hospital. The article appeared in the February 28 issue of the public journal Huashan Infection.
多亏在随后的战 “疫” 中，中国做到了新冠病毒的研究数据和疫情信息公开透明，为控制疫情蔓延采取了严防死守的措施，在质疑声中赢得第一阶段胜利。
Thanks to the epidemic that followed, China achieved open and transparent research data and epidemic information, took strict precautions to contain the spread of the disease, and won the first stage amid skepticism.
世卫组织总干事高级顾问布鲁斯 · 艾尔沃德（Bruce Aylward）如此评价：“我们要认识到武汉人民所做的贡献，世界欠你们的。
As Bruce Aylward, senior adviser to the WHO Director-General, put it: "We have to recognize the contribution of the Wuhan people, the world owes you.
当这场疫情过去，希望有机会代表世界再一次感谢武汉人民，我知道在这次疫情过程中，中国人民奉献很多。
When this epidemic is over, I hope to have the opportunity to thank Wuhan people once again on behalf of the world.
”北京大学公共卫生学院教授宁毅告诉 DeepTech，中国的做法很大程度上延缓了病毒的传播，让其他国家有时间来准备疫情的袭击，这是一个“突出贡献”。
DeepTech, a professor at the Peking University School of Public Health, told DeepTech that China's actions have largely slowed the spread of the virus and given other countries time to prepare for an outbreak, which is a "remarkable contribution."
如今，意大利、韩国、伊朗都成为新冠的新暴发点。
Today, Italy, South Korea, and Iran are all new flashpoints for new crowns.
宁毅警示称，“如果其他国家没有跟上，那么他国的感染者有可能反流到中国。
"If other countries do not follow, there is a risk that infected people from other countries will flow back to China," Ningyi warned.
”显然，这是摆在现阶段的新问题。
Clearly, this is a new issue at this stage.
也有人认为新加坡在此次疫情中表现出色，但他山之石仅能供参考，而不能粗暴地照抄作业。
Others think that Singapore has done well in the epidemic, but that its stones are only for reference, not rough copy.
世卫组织总干事谭德塞博士说，新冠疫情面前没有放之四海而皆准的方法，每个国家都必须针对本国的国情进行自我风险评估。
There is no one-size-fits-all approach to the new crown epidemic and each country must conduct a self-risk assessment tailored to its national circumstances, said Dr. Theresa Tupper, WHO director-general.
在宁毅眼中，一个国家的公共卫生实力并非仅仅是数字堆积，而是基于当时、当地的具体情境下的战略选择。
In Ningyi's eyes, a country's public health strength is not just a digital pile-up, but is based on the specific circumstances of the time, local strategic choices.
相对于那些公共卫生硬指标，他更加看重一个国家国民的健康素质和防灾素质。
Instead of hard indicators of public health, he puts more emphasis on the health and disaster preparedness of a nation's citizens.
他给了我们一个新的视角。
He gave us a new perspective.
图 | 全球新型冠状病毒肺炎累计确诊病例分布图(3 月 1 日)。
Figure # 124; Global distribution of confirmed cases of new coronavirus pneumonia (March 1).
（来源：中国疾控中心）DeepTech：世界卫生组织总干事称目前还不能认定新冠疫情是全球大流行，你如何评价目前的疫情发展？宁毅：至少现在中国在遏止疫情发展上做出了贡献。
(Source: China CDC) DeepTech: WHO Director-General says the new crown is not yet a global pandemic. How would you comment on the current epidemic? Ning: At least now China has contributed to the containment of the epidemic.
先不说它能不能把这个疾病消灭，我看目前报告的数据，在流行季节应该是能把它遏制的，中国极大地延缓了病毒的传播。
Leaving aside the question of whether it will eliminate the disease, I think the data reported so far should be able to contain it during the current season, and China has greatly slowed the spread of the virus.
目前很多省份连续很多天零确诊，这些省份的情况变得比较乐观了。
At present, many provinces have been diagnosed for many consecutive days, and the situation in these provinces has become more optimistic.
如果其他国家没有跟上，那么他国的感染者有可能反流到中国。
If other countries do not follow suit, there is a risk that infected people from other countries will flow back to China.
中国的做法很大程度上延缓了病毒的传播，让其他国家有时间来准备疫情的袭击，这一点还是有突出贡献的。
China's approach has done much to slow the spread of the virus, giving other countries time to prepare for an outbreak.
因为对于一个新的病毒来说，延缓疫情，更好了解病毒特性，本身就是争取时间作应对的准备，好知己知彼，控制病死率的同时，有计划地控制各个方面的损失。
For a new virus, slowing the epidemic and gaining a better understanding of the virus's characteristics is in itself a way to buy time to respond, to learn from each other, to control the fatality rate, and to control losses in a planned way.
其他省份和武汉就是一个很鲜明的对比。
Other provinces and Wuhan is a very clear contrast.
在早期，武汉的医疗资源挤兑非常严重，间接导致医疗资源缺乏，武汉的病死率非常高。
In the early days, Wuhan medical resources run very serious, indirectly led to a lack of medical resources, Wuhan mortality rate is very high.
把扩散速度控制住之后，其他省份就有条件来控制病死率和应对其他方面的损失。
With the spread rate under control, other provinces will be in a position to control the fatality rate and deal with other losses.
我们对早期的疫情处理过程中，如果这次信息透明或者及时有效处理，结果应该会好一些。
If this information is transparent or handled in a timely and effective manner in the early stages of the epidemic, the results should be better.
但是一般来说新发疾病发生的时候，人们常常需要一段时间来判断和了解这个病原体和疫情发展的特点，决定主要的防控手段。
But in general, when a new disease occurs, it often takes time to diagnose and understand the pathogen and the characteristics of the epidemic, and to determine the main means of prevention and control.
这里面是有一些问题可以检讨，但是后来的措施对于遏制或者延缓它在国内的传播，甚至国际的传播都是帮助的。
There are a number of issues that can be examined, but subsequent measures have helped to contain or delay its spread domestically, and even internationally.
DeepTech：新发疫情是展现各国公共卫生实力的机会，你认为各国的公共卫生实力在此次疫情中体现的怎么样？宁毅：这里有几个因素。
What do you think of the public health strength of each country in this epidemic? Ning Yi: Here are a few factors.
首先各个国家对疫情的判断还不大一样，控制效果的评价并不局限于公共卫生。
First of all, each country's judgement of the epidemic is not the same, the evaluation of control effect is not limited to public health.
采取何种控制措施？这些措施能不能得到保障？措施上有很多选择。
What controls are in place? Are these measures guaranteed? There are many options.
还要考虑采取措施多久会取得什么样的效果，对公共卫生影响如何，以及对经济、社会发展、文化、外交等各个方面的影响如何。
Consideration will also be given to how long and what the impact of the measures will be, how it will affect public health and how it will affect the economy, social development, culture, diplomacy, etc.
其次是各国国民平时的防灾意识和防灾教育。
Secondly, the people of all countries in peacetime awareness and disaster prevention education.
比如，日本是一个多灾的国家，相对来说，其国民对地震、海啸等灾难的心态更加成熟，平时也有演习训练，灾难来临时，人人知道自己的定位和职责。
Japan, for example, is a disaster-prone country with a relatively sophisticated mindset towards earthquakes, tsunamis and other disasters, as well as drills, where everyone knows where they stand and where they stand when a disaster strikes.
而这次疫情中，武汉的大量患者蜂拥到医院就诊，医疗资源挤兑效应明显。
In this outbreak, Wuhan, a large number of patients flocked to hospitals, medical resources run obvious effect.
估计日本可能也会出现挤兑，但是防灾意识比较强的话，就不会有这样严重的医疗资源挤兑出现，继而很多连锁的反应。
A run may be expected in Japan, but a stronger sense of disaster prevention would have prevented such a severe run on medical resources, followed by a number of chain reactions.
同时，有准备的情况下，医院外的预防也会更好一些，这一点很重要。
At the same time, it is important that prevention outside hospitals is also better when prepared.
另外，这也和国民平时的健康教育或健康素质有关系。
In addition, it is also related to the national peacetime health education or quality of health.
国民会更加了解预防疾病的基础知识，再加上应急的强化教育，可能更好地应对疫情。
People will be better informed about the basics of disease prevention, and with intensive education in emergency situations, they may be better able to cope with the epidemic.
我们遇到武汉这种情况，如果要达到相同的教育效果，可能要花相当的一段时间去教育民众，这也是时间成本和资源成本，而疫情控制中时间不等人。
In Wuhan, for example, it can take a considerable amount of time to educate people if the same educational effect is to be achieved. It is also a time and resource cost, and time is not always on the side of the epidemic.
另外，关键是对本国的疾病控制体系能力的综合评估，如何更主动地防控疫情，包括处理疫情的预案和各种资源的准备。
In addition, it is critical to conduct a comprehensive assessment of the capacity of the country's disease control system and to be more proactive in preventing and controlling the epidemic, including preparedness plans and preparedness for resources.
这是一个软实力的考验，软实力也不是短时间建立起来的。
This is a test of soft power, soft power is not established in a short time.
当然，这个病毒和气温有关系，温度高也可能会减低新冠病毒的传播力和毒力。
Of course, the virus is associated with temperature, which may also reduce the transmission and virulence of the new crown virus.
目前还不确认这一点，需要从新加坡的疫情发展了解更多信息。
This has not yet been confirmed and more information is needed on the evolution of the epidemic in Singapore.
从中国全国范围来看，在新冠疫情发生了一段时间之后，我们对新冠病毒有了更好的了解，各个地方已经形成了这种快速扑灭一些小规模流行的能力。
Across China, some time after the outbreak of the new crown, we have a better understanding of the new crown virus, and the ability to quickly stamp out some small epidemics has developed in various places.
DeepTech：一个国家和地区的公共卫生实力体现出来是一个很综合的事物，它并不是说能定量的指标。
DeepTech: The strength of public health in a country or region is a very comprehensive thing. It is not a quantitative indicator.
目前这个情况下，武汉是一个特例吗？宁毅：一个国家公共卫生的实力是综合的。
At present, Wuhan is a special case? Ningyi: A country's public health strength is comprehensive.
首先，公民教育很重要。
First, civic education is important.
且不评价日本和新加坡做法的对与错，至少他们平时有应对灾难的演习和训练，他们对公民的防灾认识还是有一些信心的。
Not to say that Japan and Singapore were right or wrong, at least they had exercises and training to deal with the disaster, and they had some confidence in their citizens' awareness of disaster prevention.
特别是因为日本灾害频繁，如海啸和地震，它并不是说这个时候一定要国家领导人出面，而是第一时间老百姓就知道自己需要做什么，保护自己，服从大局。
Especially since Japan is prone to disasters, such as tsunamis and earthquakes, this is not to say that it is time for national leaders to come forward, but rather for the first time for ordinary people to know what they need to do to protect themselves and obey the bigger picture.
另外，公民的基础教育质量很重要。
In addition, the quality of basic education for citizens is important.
公民基础教育好的话，你让他做什么事情，他们很快能够理解。
Citizen basic education is good if you let him do something that they can quickly understand.
这是一个长期的教育问题。
This is a long-term educational problem.
同时我觉得长期的公共卫生的体系建设就包括了从民众一直到各个级别卫生从业者的公共卫生教育。
At the same time, I think the long-term public health system construction includes the public health education from people to all levels of health practitioners.
第三点，可能还要看疫情对经济上的影响。
Third, it may also depend on the economic impact of the epidemic.
比如新加坡，若是新加坡作出一些特别激烈应对的话，对其经济发展也是致命的。
Singapore, for example, would have been fatal to its economic development if it had reacted with particular ferocity.
应对措施的成本和它的损益，需要做一个综合评价。
A comprehensive evaluation of the costs of response measures and their benefits and losses is needed.
公共卫生实力更多还是一个软实力，所以这就是一些因素的综合考量了。
Public health is more of a soft power, so this is a combination of factors.
对于武汉而言，其病死率一开始是很高的。
For Wuhan, the fatality rate was high from the start.
《柳叶刀》报道的武汉金银潭医院首批 99 名患者中，截至到 1 月 25 日的死亡率至少为 10%。
Of the first 99 patients reported by The Lancet at Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, the death rate was at least 10 percent as of January 25.
早期阶段病死率如此之高，这让当时的中国采取了一些非常严格的措施，也是其决策基础。
The high fatality rate in the early stages led China to adopt some very strict measures, which were the basis of its decision-making.
湖北省目前病死率已经大幅度降低，那么我们再看湖北省外，粗病死率接近 0.6%，接近于流感的病死率。
Hubei Province has now significantly reduced the fatality rate, then we look at Hubei Province, the crude death rate is close to 0.6%, close to the mortality rate of influenza.
DeepTech：新加坡的公共卫生实力比较突出，一些学者对新加坡这次表现出来的公开透明表示赞赏，你怎么看？宁毅：新加坡的确信息透明公开，对其疫情控制很有帮助。
What do you think of Singapore's openness and transparency? Ning: Singapore does have transparent and open information, which is very helpful to its epidemic control.
我们中国也有成功的经验，比方说前一段时间北京的鼠疫是一个比较好的例子，比较公开透明，人们比较警觉，人们也知道怎么主动防，当时整个过程中人们也没有太恐慌。
We have also had successful experiences in China, such as the plague in Beijing some time ago. It was more open and transparent, people were more alert, people knew how to take the initiative, and there was not much panic throughout the process.
现在阶段的疫情还是公开透明的，比如 2 月 20 日发布的北大人民医院疫情。
The current stage of the epidemic is still open and transparent, such as the February 20 release of the Peking University Hospital epidemic.
但是，在数据的公开解读上还存在很大问题，让人们感觉到和实际情况不符合，需要专业人士有更细致解读。
However, there are still major problems in the public interpretation of the data, which makes people feel out of line with the actual situation and requires more detailed interpretation by professionals.
比如前面讲的粗死亡率 2%-3%，可能和医生的感觉不一样，他们似乎感觉更高一些。
For example, the crude death rate of 2% -3% may feel different from that of doctors, who seem to feel higher.
因为简单地呈现一个数字，没有考虑到很多重症病人还没有结束治疗周期，很多病人也刚刚收治，比较粗暴地列为分母呈现出来，需要有一些正确的解读。
Because simply presenting a number does not take into account that many seriously ill patients have not yet finished the treatment cycle, many patients have just been admitted to treatment, more roughly presented as denominator, need to have some correct interpretation.
这也是我讲的公共卫生软实力的呈现。
This is what I am saying about the soft power of public health.
宁毅简介宁毅，北京大学公共卫生学院教授、北京大学医学部美年公众健康研究院执行院长、中关村美年健康产业研究院院长。
Ning Yi, professor of public health at Peking University and executive director of the American Institute of Public Health of Peking University Medical Department, and director of Zhongguancun Health Industry Research Institute.
他在北京大学、华盛顿大学、哈佛大学分别取得学士、硕士和博士学位。
He earned his bachelor's, master's and doctorate degrees from Peking University, Washington University and Harvard University.
历任北京大学助教，卫生部公务员，华盛顿大学助理研究员，哈佛大学医学院研究人员，美国弗吉尼亚联邦大学医学院终身系列助理教授、博士生导师和博士后导师，葛兰素史克医药研发有限公司流行病学总监和高级学术委员（全球 Senior Fellow），GSK 清华全球健康中心博士后导师，中关村美年健康产业研究院执行院长。
He has been assistant professor at Peking University, civil servant at the Ministry of Health, assistant researcher at the University of Washington, researcher at Harvard Medical School, Assistant Professor of Life Series, Ph.D. Tutor and Postdoctoral Tutor at the Virginia Commonwealth University School of Medicine, Global Senior Fellow, postdoctoral supervisor at GSK Tsinghua Center for Global Health and Executive Director of Zhongguancun Health Industry Research Institute.
-End-。
- End-.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
中国延缓了病毒的全球传播，各国公卫比拼才刚刚开始 | 专访北大宁毅。
China has slowed the global spread of the virus, and public health officials have just begun to visit Beijing Ningyi.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "DeepTech深科技";。
var nickname = & quot; DeepTech & quot;;
var msg_title = "中国延缓了病毒的全球传播，各国公卫比拼才刚刚开始 | 专访北大宁毅";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; China has slowed the global spread of the virus, and public health workers have only just begun to visit Beijing at & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "新冠疫情是一场全球灾难，也是各国公共卫生的练兵场。
var msg _ desc = & quot; The New Crown is a global disaster and a training ground for public health.
按照世界卫生组织专家、伦敦卫生和热带医学院流行病专家戴维";。
David Quote, an expert at the World Health Organization and epidemiologist at London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.
var title ="DeepTech深科技";。
var title = & quot; DeepTech & quot;;
