武汉中心医院又有医生殉职，韩国宣布进入战争状态，以及其他 25 条疫情新闻。
Wuhan Central Hospital in the death of doctors, South Korea declared a state of war, and 25 other news epidemic.
临时报道小组。
Interim coverage team.
所有的鱼                      。
All the fish.
所有的鱼。
All the fish.
地球被毁灭之前究竟发生了什么？。
What happened before the earth was destroyed?
所有的鱼现在同步在 allthefishnews.wordpress.com 更新并可通过邮件订阅。
All fish are now synchronized at allthefishnews. wordpress.com and can be subscribed to by mail.
你可以复制上方链接浏览器打开获取订阅链接。
You can copy the above link browser to open for a subscription link.
根据丁香医生实时数据，截至 3 月 3 日 21:32 时，全国现存确诊病例 29930 例，累计确诊病例 80303 例，现存疑似病例 587 例。
According to the real-time data of Dr. Lilac, as of 2132 hours on March 3, there were 29,930 confirmed cases, 80,303 confirmed cases and 587 existing suspected cases.
其中，重症病例 6806 例，死亡病例 2948 例，累计治愈病例 47425 例。
Of these, 6,806 were serious cases, 2,948 deaths and 47,425 cumulative cases were cured.
根据世界卫生组织，截至 3 月 2 日，除中国以外，全球确诊病例为 8739 例，死亡 127 例。
According to the World Health Organization, as of March 2, there were 8,739 confirmed cases and 127 deaths worldwide, excluding China.
除中国外，目前全球有 61 个国家出现了新冠肺炎确诊病人。
In addition to China, 61 countries have now been diagnosed with new crown pneumonia.
疫情发展1.湖北——仍有6593例重症和危重型患者在院救治。
In Hubei province, there are still 6,593 serious and serious cases being treated in hospitals.
3 月 3 日下午，湖北省新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情防控工作指挥部召开新闻发布会称，湖北省有 6593 例重症和危重型患者在院救治，有 330 支医疗队超 4 万人援助。
On the afternoon of March 3, a press conference was held by the Hubei Provincial Command for the Prevention and Control of Coronavirus Pneumonia.
湖北省卫生健康委员会副主任涂远超称“救治压力依然很大，挑战依然很大。
Hubei province health committee deputy director Tu Yuan overstated that "the pressure of treatment is still very big, the challenge is still very big.
我们一刻也不能放松。
We cannot afford to relax for a moment.
”湖北省人民政府副省长杨云彦称，增量风险仍然没有得到根本控制，“像武汉市每天还有三位数的新增病例。
Yang Yunyan, vice-governor of the People's Government of Hubei Province, said the incremental risk was still not fundamentally controlled "with three-digit new cases occurring every day in Wuhan.
”2.武汉中心医院又一位医生殉职，超 200 名职工感染。
Another doctor died in Wuhan Central Hospital, infecting more than 200 workers.
3 月 3 日下午，武汉市中心医院发布公告称，眼科副主任、主任医师梅仲明，在抗击新冠肺炎疫情工作中不幸染病，经抢救无效，于 3 日中午 12 时在武汉市金银潭医院去世，享年 57 岁。
In the afternoon of March 3, Wuhan Central Hospital issued a notice saying that the deputy ophthalmologist and chief physician, MeiZhongming, died at 12: 00 noon on Wednesday at the Jiantan Hospital in Wuhan after suffering from an unfortunate illness during the fight against the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic.
梅仲明被赞是武汉最好的眼科医生之一，他也是武汉市中心医院第三位在工作中感染新冠肺炎而殉职的医生。
Mei Zhongming is praised as one of Wuhan's best ophthalmologists, he is the third Wuhan city central hospital in the work of the new crown pneumonia and died.
之前，该院眼科医生李文亮、甲状腺乳腺外科主任医师江学庆，分别于 2 月 7 日和 3 月 1 日因新冠肺炎去世，目前该院有超过 200 名职工感染。
Earlier, the hospital's ophthalmologist Li Wenliang, thyroid breast surgeon director Jiang Xueqing, died of pneumonia on February 7 and March 1, respectively, and the hospital now has more than 200 employees infected.
3.浙江丽水青田新增7例“倒灌”，政府规劝华侨不要回国。
The government exhorted overseas Chinese not to return home after adding 7 new cases of "reverse irrigation" in Lishui Qingtian, Zhejiang.
浙江丽水青田县新增 7 例从意大利输入病例，与丽水通报的首例倒灌病例皆曾在意大利北部贝加莫的一家餐厅工作。
Seven new cases were imported from Italy in Lishui Qingtian, Zhejiang Province, and the first case reported with Lishui was at a restaurant in Bergamo, northern Italy.
据财新网采访，回国的原因在于，意大利北部疫情严重，餐厅生意较差。
The reason for returning home, according to Caixin, is that northern Italy has a severe epidemic and restaurant business is poor.
青田县有约 10 万华侨居住在意大利，目前有百人回国。
About 100,000 overseas Chinese live in Italy in Qingtian, and 100 people are now returning home.
3 月 1 日，青田县发布《青田侨眷侨属告知书》，“就地居家是最好的自我防护，是对国家防控大局最大的支持”，不要贸然回国。
On March 1, Qingtian County issued the "Notice on Overseas Chinese Family Members of Qingtian," "Home in situ is the best self-defense, is the biggest support to the overall national prevention and control," and do not rush home.
浙江青田县侨联党组书记张伟华在机场带走返乡华侨去隔离时，呼吁在外华侨尽量不要返回，返回所乘坐的公共交通的封闭性增加了感染风险，而如果回来一律要集中隔离 14 天。
When Zhang Weihua, secretary of the OCT group in Qingtian County, Zhejiang, took home returning overseas Chinese at the airport to isolate them, he called on overseas Chinese to avoid returning as much as possible. The closeness of the public transport on which they returned increased the risk of infection and, if returned, they were kept in isolation for 14 days.
4.中国境外确诊约9000例，“新增病例数几乎是中国境内的9倍”。
4. About 9,000 cases were diagnosed outside China, "almost nine times the number of new cases in China."
截至 3 月 2 日晚 24 时，中国境外共 66 个国家确诊新冠肺炎约 9000 例，死亡超过 130 例。
By 2400 hours on the evening of March 2, 66 countries outside China had confirmed cases of pneumonia with more than 130 deaths.
谭德塞在 3 月 2 日下午的「新冠肺炎例行发布会」称，过去 24 小时，中国境外新冠肺炎新增病例数几乎是中国境内的 9 倍，韩国、意大利、伊朗和日本的情况最令人担忧。
In the past 24 hours, the number of new cases of pneumonia outside China was nearly nine times that in China, with South Korea, Italy, Iran and Japan being the most worrying cases, according to Mr Tanner's briefing on the afternoon of March 2.
但目前还没到称其为“大流行”（pandemic）的时候。
But it is not yet time to call it a pandemic.
“因为迄今为止，在全球报告的 88913 例病例中，有 90%都集中在中国，大部分还都只在一个省。
"Because of the 88913 cases reported globally so far, 90 percent are concentrated in China, mostly in only one province.
”中国境外的 81% 集中来自四个国家。
Four countries account for 81 per cent of the total number of people outside China.
当时报告的 61 国中，有 38 个只报告了 10 例或更少的病例，有 19 个国家只报告了 1 例。
Of the 61 countries reported at that time, only 10 or fewer cases were reported, while 19 countries reported only 1 case.
5.韩国——确诊近5千，宣布进入“战争”阶段。
5. South Korea - Diagnosed nearly 5,000, declared "war" phase.
截止 3 月 3 日，韩国累计确诊病例达 4812 例。
As of March 3, the cumulative number of confirmed cases in South Korea reached 4,812.
韩国总统文在寅在「国务会议」宣布韩国进入“战争”阶段，对“韩国政府没能快速、足够地向市民提供口罩表示歉意”。
South Korea's president, Wen JY, declared "war" in the "State Council," apologizing for "the South Korean government's failure to provide masks to the public quickly and adequately."
要求各级政府启动 24 小时应急体制以共同应对新型冠状病毒疫情。
Governments at all levels were asked to activate a 24-hour emergency response system to jointly respond to the new coronavirus epidemic.
6.欧洲累积确诊近3千例，意、法、德三国大幅上升。
6. The cumulative number of confirmed cases in Europe is close to 3,000, with significant increases in Italy, France and Germany.
截止 3 月 2 日，欧洲累积确诊约 2750 例，死亡人数累计达到 55 人。
As at 2 March, a cumulative total of some 2,750 cases and 55 deaths had been diagnosed in Europe.
与前一日相比，意大利由 1694 例增至 2036 例，法国由 130 例增至 191 例，德国由 129 例增至 157 例。
Compared to the previous day, the number of cases increased from 1,694 to 2,036 in Italy, from 130 to 191 in France and from 129 to 157 in Germany.
经济合作与发展组织（OECD）在 3 月 2 日警告称，“新冠病毒是从经济危机后最为严重的金融危机风险”。
The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) warned on March 2 that "the new crown virus is the worst risk of a financial crisis since the economic crisis."
欧洲多地取消大型活动或集会，法国自 1 日起关闭卢浮宫。
Large events or gatherings were cancelled in many parts of Europe and the Louvre was closed in France as of 1 January.
7.武汉监所一日新增232例。
7. Wuhan prison day 232 new cases.
据财新报道，2 月 29 日，武汉市各监所新增新冠肺炎确诊病例 232 人，包括监狱 231 人、看守所 1 人。
On Feb. 29, 232 new cases of pneumonia were confirmed in Wuhan city's prisons, including 231 in prisons and one in a detention center, the Finance Ministry reported.
其中，看守所出现新冠肺炎确诊病例尚属首次披露。
Among them, the new crown pneumonia cases in the detention center are still the first time to be disclosed.
狱所作为疫情防控的薄弱环节受到广泛关注。
As the weak link of epidemic prevention and control, the prison is widely concerned.
截至当日武汉市监所在押人员已有 806 人确诊新型肺炎。
As of the same day, 806 people had been diagnosed with pneumonia in Wuhan city.
城市防控1.「离汉进京」事件公布调查结果，多部门问责，是否违法仍在调查。
Prevention and Control of Cities 1. The results of the investigation into the "Leaving Hanjin" incident are published.
3 月 2 日，中央联合调查组以及湖北、北京等多个调查组分别公布「黄某英离汉进京事件」调查结果，认为“这是一起因失职渎职导致的严重事件，性质恶劣，影响极坏，给首都疫情防控工作带来极大隐患。
On March 2, the Central Joint Investigation Team (JIT) and various investigation teams in Hubei and Beijing respectively released the results of the investigation into the incident. "It was a serious case of negligence and neglect of duty.
”对于进京路上各个关卡相关人员和管理方都给予了处理，包括湖北省司法厅、湖北省监狱管理局、武汉女子监狱、武汉市东西湖区公安分局、北京市公安局大兴分局求贤检查站、东城区崇文门外街道办及新怡家园社区、北京市疾控中心、黄某所在小区的新世界物业管理公司。
Relevant personnel and management at all levels of Beijing Road have been dealt with, including the Hubei Provincial Judicial Bureau, Hubei Prison Administration, Wuhan Women's Prison, Wuhan East and West Lake District Public Security Bureau, Daxing Municipal Public Security Bureau Qixian Checkpoint, Chongwen Men Street Office and Xinyi Home Community, Beijing CDC and New World Property Management Company of Huang Mou's quarter.
此前，黄某的女儿认为其行为完全合理合法，而调查组对于是否存在违法“正在开展调查”。
Earlier, Huang's daughter thought his actions were perfectly legal and the investigation team was "investigating" whether there had been any violations.
调查组称，黄某英在 2 月 17 日刑满释放后，留在武汉女子监狱隔离观察。
The investigation team said Huang remained in Wuhan women's prison for observation after serving his sentence on Feb. 17.
2 月 17 日至 21 日上午，监狱干警为黄某英测量体温 13 次，其中 18 日、19 日两次体温为 37.3℃。
From 17 to 21 February, the prison superintendent took 13 body temperature tests for Huang, of which the temperature was 37.3 degrees Celsius twice on February 18 and 19.
而 37.3℃是新冠疫情发热标准的临界值。
37.3 ° C is the critical value of the new crown heat standard.
据新京报报道，1 月 25 日，湖北监狱启动战时机制，黄某英所在的“武汉女子监狱”在 1 月 29 日即发生了感染事件，监狱被列为“密切接触者”，湖北省司法厅领导曾到现场“督战”。
According to the Beijing News, on January 25, Hubei prison launched the wartime mechanism, Huang's "Wuhan women's prison" occurred on January 29, the prison was classified as "close contacts," the Hubei Provincial Justice Department leadership once went to the scene.
2 月 21 日上午，武汉女子监狱将黄某英和孝感籍刑满释放人员李某一起送到武汉北高速收费站。
February 21 morning, Wuhan women's prison will Huang Ying and filial piety released Li Mou sent to Wuhan North Expressway toll station.
“在黄女士被送走后几小时，湖北省监狱管理局向外界通报了监狱中的疫情。
"Hours after Ms. Huang was sent away, the Hubei Provincial Prison Administration informed the outside world about the outbreak in the prison.
”2.北京——从韩国日本伊朗意大利入境北京需隔离14天。
BEIJING - The entry of Italy into Beijing from South Korea, Japan and Iran takes 14 days in isolation.
3 月 3 日，「北京市新冠疫情防控工作新闻发布会」上，北京市政府副秘书长陈蓓称，因部分国家疫情发展很快，一些海外留学生、务工人员回国意愿比较强烈，“仅在伊朗的中国留学生从北京口岸回国的就有 20 余人。
"Because of the rapid development of the epidemic in some countries, some overseas students and workers are more willing to return home," Chen Be, deputy secretary-general of the Beijing Municipal Government, said at a press conference on March 3.
”要求“凡是从韩国、意大利、伊朗、日本等疫情严重国家经北京口岸入境的，如果是中转去外地的，严格按当地规定做好防疫工作；如果目的地是北京的，不论是中国人，还是外国人，都要实行隔离观察。
Countries with serious epidemics such as the Republic of Korea, Italy, Iran and Japan that enter China through the port of Beijing are required to do a good job in epidemic prevention in accordance with local regulations if they are transiting to another country.
”3.中疾控——无人机等喷洒消毒“形式大于效果应制止”。
3. CDC - UAV spraying disinfection "The form is greater than the effect should be stopped".
3 月 2 日，「国务院联防联控机制」中国疾控中心研究员张流波称，采用雾炮车、无人机大面积喷洒消毒的方式，“形式大于实际消毒效果，应该制止”。
Zhang Liubo, a researcher with the China CDC and the State Council's Joint Prevention and Control System, said on March 2 that large-scale spraying with fog cannon and drones "is more effective than actual disinfection and should be stopped."
其他消毒要求包括“不对室外环境开展大面积消毒，雨雪天气不对室外环境消毒，不对外环境进行空气消毒，不直接使用消毒剂对人员全身喷洒消毒，不对水塘、水库、人工湖投加消毒剂，不在有人条件下对室内空气使用化学消毒剂消毒。
Other disinfection requirements include "not disinfecting the outdoor environment, not disinfecting the outdoor environment in rainy and snowy weather, not disinfecting the environment outside, not using disinfectant to spray the whole body, not disinfecting ponds, reservoirs and artificial lakes, and not disinfecting indoor air with chemical disinfectants under human conditions
”另外，张流波称疫情期间“不建议公众到游泳馆和公共浴池，也不建议开放游泳馆和公共浴池。
Separately, Zhang said during the outbreak "the public is not advised to go to swimming pools and public baths, nor is it recommended to open swimming pools and public baths."
”疫情结束后应定期消毒。
Regular disinfection should be carried out after the outbreak.
4.中疾控——提醒减少去超市，避免只逛不买。
4. CDC - Remind to reduce visits to supermarkets and avoid shopping only.
3 月 2 日，中国疾控中心研究员张流波提醒超市购物注意事项，“购物时人与人保持一米以上距离”“结账时最好使用电子付费”，消费者应当尽量减少去商场和超市的机会，必须要去时也要缩短时间。
When shopping, people should pay more than one meter in advance, said Zhang Liubo, a researcher at the China CDC. Consumers should minimize the number of trips to shopping malls and supermarkets and shorten the time they have to go.
“（消费者）到这些地方去，应该是买东西而不是逛商店。
"[Consumers] are going to these places to do some shopping, not shopping.
”疫情期间共发生 6 起超市聚集性案例，其中天津市宝坻百货大楼感染 60 人。
Six cases of supermarket agglomeration occurred during the outbreak, including 60 people in Tianjin Baodi District.
医疗方案研究发现新冠感染关键蛋白酶或已有潜在靶向药。
Medical protocol studies found that the new crown was infected with key proteinases or had potential targeting drugs.
自新冠疫情发生以来，科学家们一直在探究这种病毒入侵人体细胞的生化机制。
Since the outbreak of the new crown, scientists have been investigating the biochemical mechanisms by which the virus invades human cells.
此前已有多项研究表明，新冠病毒表面的 S 蛋白（又称刺突蛋白）可与人体细胞的ACE2（血管紧张素转化酶 2）受体结合。
Previous studies have shown that S proteins, also known as spines, on the surface of the new crown virus bind to ACE2 (angiotensin converting enzyme 2) receptors in human cells.
近日发表在顶级学术期刊《细胞》（Cell）上的一篇研究，则更为深入地描述了这个过程——S 蛋白在驱动时还要利用宿主细胞中一种叫做 TMPRSS2 的蛋白酶。
A recent study, published in the top academic journal Cell, describes the process in greater depth, using a protease called TMPRSS 2 in host cells to drive the protein.
而且目前已经有这种蛋白酶的抑制剂通过临床验证，不过是用作治疗其他疾病。
And there are already inhibitors of this protease that have been clinically proven, but are used to treat other diseases.
在细胞实验中，这种蛋白酶抑制剂有抑制新冠病毒入侵细胞的效果，有望成为潜在的抗病毒靶向药。
In cell experiments, this protease inhibitor has the effect of inhibiting the invading cells of the new crown virus and is expected to be a potential antiviral target.
该项研究的团队成员大多来自德国的科研单位，包括德国莱布尼茨灵长类动物研究所、德国格廷根大学生物及心理学院等。
Most of the team members came from German scientific institutions, including the Leibnitz Primate Institute in Germany and the Faculty of Biology and Psychology at the University of Göttingen in Germany.
《细胞》官网称，这篇文章已经过同行评议，但还不是最终版本。
Cellular said the article had been peer-reviewed but was not the final version.
医疗方案1.日本奥运大臣：东京奥运会可以在 2020 年内进行延期。
1.Japan's Olympic minister: The Tokyo Olympics could be extended in 2020.
据日本放送协会(NHK)报道，当地时间 3 月 3 日，被问及东京奥运会是否会延期举办时，日本奥运大臣桥本圣子表示，“主办城市与国际奥委会的协议中规定，国际奥委会只有在东京不能于 2020 年内举办的情况下，才能取消本届奥运会。
"The agreement between the host city and the IOC stipulates that the IOC can cancel the Games only if Tokyo does not host them in 2020," Yasuo Hashimoto, Japan's Olympic minister, said when asked on March 3 whether the Games would be postponed, the NHK reported.
根据这一协议，东京奥运会可以在 2020 年内进行延期”。
Under the agreement, the Tokyo Olympics could be extended until 2020.
2.新加坡 5 日起禁止韩国、伊朗、意大利北部旅客入境。
Singapore has banned visitors from the Republic of Korea, Iran and northern Italy from entering the country.
新加坡跨部门工作小组 3 月 3 日宣布，从 4 日晚上 11 时 59 分起，所有过去 14 天到过伊朗、意大利北部和韩国的旅客，将不得入境新加坡或在新加坡过境。
All passengers who have travelled to Iran, northern Italy and the Republic of Korea in the past 14 days will not be allowed to enter or transit through Singapore from 11.59 pm on March 4, an inter-departmental working group announced on March 3.
即刻起，新加坡也将暂停签发各类新准证给伊朗护照持有者，之前签发的短期签证和多次入境签证也会暂时失效。
Singapore will also suspend the issuance of all types of new permits to Iranian passport holders, as well as the temporary suspension of previously issued short-term and multiple-entry visas.
工作小组吁请国人，若无必要，应尽量避免前往伊朗、意大利北部、日本和韩国。
The working group urged Singaporeans to avoid, if necessary, travel to Iran, northern Italy, Japan and South Korea.
3.印度：意、伊、韩、日公民的印度签证立即失效。
3. India: Indian visas for Italian, Iraqi, Korean and Japanese citizens expire immediately.
3 月 3 日下午，印度政府发布公告称，意大利、伊朗、韩国、日本公民若持有 3 日当天及此前颁发的印度普通贴纸签证或电子签证，且本人目前未入境印度的，所持签证立即失效。
On the afternoon of March 3, the Indian government issued a notice saying that visas issued by Italian, Iranian, Korean and Japanese citizens holding Indian ordinary sticker or electronic visas issued on or before the 3rd day and who do not currently enter India will lose their visas immediately.
韩国、日本公民的落地签政策日前也被取消。
South Korean and Japanese citizens have had their visa-on-arrival policies cancelled.
确有需要赴印旅行者，应当向最近的印度使领馆申请新的签证。
Those who do need to travel to India should apply to the nearest Indian embassy or consulate for a new visa.
上述国家的外交官、联合国及其他国际机构的官员、海外印度公民及航空公司机组人员不受该条款限制，但均需在入境时进行强制性的健康检查。
Diplomats from the above-mentioned countries, officials of the United Nations and other international agencies, Indian citizens abroad and airline crews are not subject to the clause, but are subject to mandatory medical screening at the time of entry.
4.四川巴中：已关闭野生动物交易经营场所 1704 家。
4. Sichuan Bazhong: 1,704 wildlife trading establishments have been closed.
巴中市卫生健康委副主任胡杰近日对媒体通报称，目前巴中市已封控隔离野生动物驯养繁殖场所88家，关闭野生动物交易经营场所 1704 家，劝退餐饮店、农家乐、农村坝坝宴群体性聚餐 15.03 万桌、涉及 147.81 万人。
The city has sealed off 88 breeding and breeding grounds for wild animals, 1,704 wildlife trading sites and 150,300 tables for group meals involving 1,478,100 people at restaurants, farm homes and rural dams, Hu Jie, deputy director of the Bazhong City Health Commission, told reporters recently.
5.Amazon 下架百万种声称能治愈新冠肺炎的商品。
Amazon hits millions of products that claim to cure pneumonia.
同一周，Facebook 也表示，将在其平台上禁止任何声称能够治愈或减少该病毒传播的产品的广告。
That same week, Facebook said it would ban any ads on its platform that claimed to cure or reduce the spread of the virus.
Amazon 还注销或暂时封锁了成千上万的商户，他们被指控以高价售卖口罩、消毒剂和其他防病毒产品。
Amazon also cancelled or temporarily blocked thousands of businesses accused of selling masks, disinfectants and other antivirus products at exorbitant prices.
6.韩国将以“过失杀人罪”起诉新天地教会会长。
6. South Korea will sue the president of Xintiandi Church for manslaughter.
首尔市长朴元淳周日要求检方调查大邱新天地会教会的创始人李万熙以及其他高层领袖。
Seoul Mayor Park won-soon asked prosecutors Sunday to investigate Daegu's founder Lee Wanxi and other top leaders.
他们认为，教会未能准确提供教会成员名单，干扰政府抗击疫情，是造成该国病死人数不断上升的原因之一。
They argue that the Church's failure to provide accurate lists of church members and to interfere with the Government's response to the epidemic is one of the reasons for the rising number of deaths and diseases in the country.
朴元淳在社交媒体发文指出，教会的行为无异于“故意过失杀人”。
Speaking on social media, Park Yuanchun said the church's actions were tantamount to "wilful manslaughter."
检方尚未决定是否将对李万熙等人开启正式调查。
Prosecutors have yet to decide whether to open a formal investigation against Lee Wanxi and others.
韩国官员周日还表示，一些教会成员今年 1 月曾到访武汉，韩国 4000 余例确诊病例中，将近 60% 是这个教会的成员或者与他们有过接触的人。
South Korean officials also said Sunday that nearly 60 percent of the 4,000 confirmed cases of missionary activity in Wuhan, visited by some church members in January, were members of or in contact with the church.
该教会承认在武汉有信徒，但表示自去年 12 月以来没有中国信徒到访韩国。
The church admits to having followers in Wuhan but says no Chinese have visited the country since December.
3 月 2 日，韩国“新天地”教会会长李万熙召开新冠肺炎疫情记者会。
March 2, South Korea's "Xintiandi" Church President Lee Wanxi held a press conference on the outbreak of new crown pneumonia.
这是“新天地”引爆韩国疫情以来李万熙首次公开发声。
It was Lee's first public outcry since Xintiandi detonated the outbreak.
在记者会上，李万熙行大礼道歉。
At the press conference, Lee Wan-hee apologized.
7.法国卫生部长建议取消贴面礼。
7. The French Minister of Health recommended that the veneer be abolished.
考虑到法国确诊新冠肺炎人数的增加，法国卫生部长奥利维尔·维兰建议减少肢体接触，例如“贴面礼”。
French Health Minister Olivier Whelan has suggested reducing physical contact, such as "face dressing," given the increase in the number of cases diagnosed with pneumonia in France.
法国还决定在全境暂时取消所有“在密闭环境中聚集超过 5000 人以上的集会活动”以及部分室外活动。
France also decided to suspend all "gatherings of more than 5,000 people in a closed environment" and some outdoor activities throughout the country.
舆论关注1.“大锅药”抗疫风波。
Public opinion is concerned with 1. "Big pot medicine" anti-epidemic storm.
2 月 29 日，云南省临沧市第二中学在学校系统群发布《关于组织服用“大锅药”，充分发挥中医药“治未病”作用和提高身体抵抗力的通知》，以要求拍照上传购买药方、服用情况等方式强制师生服用“大锅药”。
On February 29, the second middle school in Lincang City, Yunnan Province, issued a notice on organizing the use of "big pot medicine," giving full play to the role of traditional Chinese medicine and improving body resistance.
此事经微博大V“小儿外科裴医生”曝光，引发众人关注。
The incident was widely reported by Dr. Pei Pei, the Pei Pei Pei Pei Pei, a pediatric surgeon.
3 月 2 日，临沧市教育局叫停了校方强制师生服药行为，涉及单位均对此表示歉意。
On March 2, the Lincang City Education Bureau called a halt to the compulsory school teachers and students to take drugs, involving the unit apologized.
2.调查组介入贫困户女儿疑因无法上网课自杀事件。
2.The investigation team intervened in the suicidal incident because the poor daughter could not take the Internet lessons.
2 月 29 日上午，河南邓州初三年级的14岁女孩李某某大量吞服母亲治疗精神疾病的药物，被送往医院。
Feb. 29 morning, Henan Dunzhou junior high school girl Li Mou a 14-year-old mother swallowed a large number of drugs for the treatment of mental illness, was sent to hospital.
其父李汉党对时代周报表示，自己家是低保户，受疫情影响，年后，李家姐弟三人只能在家上网课。
His father, Li Han Party, told TIME that his family was a low-income household, affected by the epidemic, three years later, Li brothers and sisters can only have Internet classes at home.
虽然东挪西凑让邻居帮忙在网上买了一部智能手机，但因为只有一部手机，姐姐和弟弟也要用，李某某能用的时间没多少。
While he scraped together neighbors to help him buy a smartphone online, Li didn't have much time because he only had one phone and his sister and brother needed it.
据中国网报道，她因此落下了许多功课，同时还要面对老师和同学们的质疑，一时想不开，选择吞食母亲的治疗药物。
As a result, she was left behind with many lessons and faced questions from her teachers and classmates, who couldn't resist swallowing her mother's medication, China Daily reported.
事件发生后，邓州市成立调查组，调查结果回应称：李某某家中装有宽带，有两部手机，其中一部为智能手机，另一部可以拍照；姐弟三人轮流使用，网课此前一直正常进行。
The results of an investigation team set up after the incident said Li had broadband in his home, two cell phones, one smartphone and the other photo, and the three took turns using the Internet, which used to be normal.
并暗示她此前因“家庭琐事”和家人有矛盾，为“赌气服药”。
and hinted that she had been "family trivia" and family problems, for "gamble medicine."
3.疫情之下家暴数量激增。
3. Domestic violence has surged in response to the epidemic.
澎湃 Sixthtone 报道，退休警官万飞(音译)是湖北荆门一个反家暴非盈利组织的创始人，他表示，自城市被封锁以来，家庭暴力报案几乎翻了一番。
Retired police officer Wan Fei, founder of a non-profit anti-domestic violence organization in Jingmen, Hubei province, said domestic violence reports had nearly doubled since the city was closed, according to Mr.
荆门监利县派出所 2 月共收到 162 起家庭暴力报告，是去年同期的三倍多。
In February, 162 reports of domestic violence were received at Jingmen Prison County Police Station, more than three times the same period last year.
1 月的数量也比同期增加了一倍。
The number in January also doubled over the same period.
“疫情对家暴产生了巨大的影响，据我们统计，其中 90% 的暴力事件都与这次疫情相关。
"The epidemic has had a huge impact on domestic violence, with 90 percent of it linked to the epidemic, according to our calculations.
”他认为，长期被隔离带来的恐惧和焦虑，以及许多家庭承受的经济压力，可能是导致家暴数量上升的原因之一。
Fear and anxiety from prolonged isolation, as well as economic pressure on many families, may have contributed to the rise in domestic violence, he said.
与此同时，原本存在的对于家暴幸存者的援助网络，也因为隔离而无法提供帮助。
At the same time, the existing network of assistance to survivors of domestic violence is unable to provide assistance due to isolation.
“每个人的注意力都集中在疫情上，但家庭暴力的受害者却被忽略了。
"Everyone's attention is focused on the epidemic, but the victims of domestic violence are neglected.
”许多地区警察原本就一直不愿意帮助家暴受害者，常常让报案者“息事宁人”，这种状况在疫情之下更甚。
Police in many areas have been reluctant to help victims of domestic violence, often allowing reporting cases to "calm things down," a situation exacerbated by the epidemic.
源众家庭与社区发展服务中心为此特地作出了一份《疫情期间家庭暴力受害人求助咨询解答指南》，以帮助个人求助。
For this purpose, the Centre for Family and Community Development Services has developed a "Help and Response Guide for Victims of Domestic Violence during the Epidemic" to help individuals seek help.
4.80 名中国人在俄罗斯被隔离。
4.80 Chinese are isolated in Russia.
《北青深一度》报道，受新冠肺炎疫情影响，俄罗斯首都莫斯科近日开始执行严格的防疫措施，并利用人脸识别技术对可能的感染者进行“监控”。
Moscow has imposed strict anti-epidemic measures and is using face-recognition technology to "monitor" potential infections as a result of the outbreak of pneumonia in the capital, the North Qingsheng One degree reported.
2 月 22 日开始，莫斯科执法人员每天都会在地铁站、公交、甚至民宅中进行“突然检查”。
Starting on February 22, Moscow law enforcement officials carried out daily "surprise checks" at subway stations, on public transport and even in private homes.
截至目前，莫斯科已经确认 88 人违反隔离制度，其中 80 人是中国公民。
So far, 88 people, 80 of whom are Chinese citizens, have been confirmed to have violated the isolation regime in Moscow.
这 80 位中国人多数在莫斯科东南部的察里津诺残疾人康复中心隔离，截至 2 月 29 日晚 10 点，察里津诺还滞留着 70 名左右中国人。
Most of the 80 Chinese were quarantined at the Carizino Rehabilitation Centre for the Handicapped in southeastern Moscow, where about 70 Chinese remained as of 10 p.m. on February 29.
部分当事人表示自己是在不知情的情况下“无意识”地违背了隔离法令，有人因为出门倒垃圾涉嫌违法，有人因为去超市买东西涉嫌违法，现在他们可能面临被驱逐出境，5 年不得入境俄罗斯的处罚。
Some of the parties said they had unwittingly "unwittingly" violated the quarantine order, that people were suspected of breaking the law by going out and emptying their rubbish, and that some were suspected of breaking the law by going to the supermarket to buy things, and were now at risk of deportation to Russia for five years.
5.钟南山论文：早期介入可以避免大规模感染。
Zhong Nan Shan paper: Early intervention can avoid large-scale infection.
近日，钟南山领导的学术团队在Journal of Thoracic Disease发表“基于 SEIR 优化模型和 AI 对公共卫生干预下中国 COVID-19 暴发趋势预测”的文章。
Recently, an academic team led by Zhong Nan-shan published an article in the Journal of Thoracic Disase entitled "Forecasting of Outbreak Trends in COVID-19 in China under Public Health Intervention Based on SEIR Optimization Model and AI."
论文指出，根据预测模型，新冠肺炎在 2 月 28 日达到最高峰，并在 4 月底趋于平缓，病例数最高会达到 122122 例；如果介入措施早 5 天，这个数字会是 40991，也就是现在的三分之一左右。
The paper points out that according to the prediction model, the new crown pneumonia peaked on February 28 and leveled off at the end of April, with the number of cases reaching a maximum of 122,122; if the intervention had started five days earlier, the figure would have been 40991, or about one-third of the current figure.
而如果措施推迟 5 天，疫情规模大约会是现在的三倍。
And if measures were delayed by five days, the epidemic would be about three times as large as it is today.
6.武汉三名城管殴打配送员。
6. Three Wuhan city guards beat the distributor.
3 月 2 日，武汉多名城管殴打蔬菜配送员的视频引关注。
March 2, Wuhan multi-city tube assault vegetable distributor video attention.
3 月 3 日，被打的蔬菜配送员李锋称，事发当天因为配送蔬菜较多，店内放不下，就把几个菜筐放在外边，但是随后城管以“影响市容市貌”为由与其发生冲突，“我问特殊时期不能理解一下吗？他们说理解不了”。
Li Feng, a vegetable distributor who was beaten, said on March 3 that several baskets had been left outside because more vegetables had been distributed and there was no room in the store.
江汉区新型肺炎疫情防控指挥部于 3 月 3 日发布声明，城管人员确与正在营业的新湾路“阿拉家鲜生”果蔬店店员发生肢体冲突。
The new type of pneumonia epidemic prevention and control command in Jianghan district issued a statement on March 3 saying that city officials did have a physical conflict with shop assistants at the Ala Jia Shengsheng Fruit and Vegetable Shop on Xinwan Road.
汉兴街工委和纪工委对发生冲突的城管人员吕某某、蒋某某、李某某予以辞退，对负有管理责任的汉兴街公共管理科相关负责人予以立案调查。
The Hanxing Street Working Committee and the Disciplinary Committee dismissed the clashing city officials Lu, Jiang and Li, and opened a case against the responsible officials of the Public Management Section of Hanxing Street.
区纪委监委将依纪依规对街道相关负责人追责问责。
District Disciplinary Board will be in accordance with the rules of the relevant street responsible for the prosecution.
目前公安部门正在调查处置，待结果出来后及时向社会公布。
At present, the public security departments are investigating and handling, waiting for the results to be released to the community.
文中所有新闻和消息来源可通过下方链接查看：https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HjYdVnv7XyvP-e_ncOV4Gu-smyObp72E22yxGKJbfHg/edit《新型冠状病毒肺炎每日疫情播报》，可复制链接后科学上网打开。
All news and sources in the article can be viewed at the following link: https: / / docs.google.com / document / d / 1HjYdVnv7XyvP-e _ ncoV4Gu-smyObp72E22yxGKJbfHg / edit The Daily Coronavirus Pneumonia Daily Outbreak Report, which can be accessed online by copying links.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉中心医院又有医生殉职，韩国宣布进入战争状态，以及其他 25 条疫情新闻。
Wuhan Central Hospital in the death of doctors, South Korea declared a state of war, and 25 other news epidemic.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "所有的鱼";。
Var nickname = & quot; all the fish & quot;;
var msg_title = "武汉中心医院又有医生殉职，韩国宣布进入战争状态，以及其他 25 条疫情新闻";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "我们为你选取了新冠肺炎的重要新闻";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; We've selected RPG's important news for you;;
var title ="所有的鱼";。
Valle = & quot; All the fish & quot;;
