治愈武汉的心理创伤，需要比震后汶川付出更多。
Wuhan to heal the psychological trauma, need to pay more than Wenchuan after the earthquake.
健闻毛晓琼。
Hear Mao Xiaoqiong.
八点健闻                      。
Eight good news.
八点健闻。
Eight good news.
看得懂的健康专业新闻。
Understandable health professional news.
武汉封城以后，民间的心理咨询师就开始介入，为第一批被撤换下来的医护人员做心理疏导。
Wuhan after the closure of the city, the non-governmental psychological counselors began to intervene, the first to be removed from the medical staff to do psychological counseling.
2月初，各地的医疗救援队开始带上精神科医生。
In early February, medical teams from all over the country began to bring in psychiatrists.
汶川地震时，一线的医护人员15天左右要轮换，否则会引发严重的焦虑情绪。
Wenchuan earthquake, the first-line medical staff around 15 days to rotate, or it will cause serious anxiety.
但这次，部分医护人员已经扛了一个多月。
But this time, some medical personnel have been carrying out more than a month.
医护人员已经被这个社会视为英雄，这一点反过来会提醒他们：你们是英雄，你们不可以胆小，不可以害怕，即便有，也不可以被人知道。
Healthcare workers have been recognized as heroes in this society, which in turn will remind them that you are heroes, that you must not be timid, that you must not be afraid, and that if you do, you must not be known.
疫情发展到中期，越来越多的武汉市民遭遇情绪危机。
By the middle of the epidemic, more and more people in Wuhan were suffering from emotional crisis.
因为死亡离得太近，所有人都不自觉地陷入到了对未知的恐惧中。
Because death is too close, all of us unconsciously fall into the fear of the unknown.
武汉疫情中的心理干预比汶川地震时更难。
Psychological intervention in Wuhan is more difficult than in Wenchuan earthquake.
因为大家面对的是一种持续存在的死亡恐惧，而不是一个确定的灾难结果。
For what we face is a continuing fear of death, not a definitive disaster.
凌晨2点07分，唐伟的手机响了。
At 2: 07 a.m., Tang Wei's cell phone rang.
作为浙江首批支援武汉的心理医生，从进入方舱的第一天起，唐伟就公开了自己的手机号码，并且强调了24小时接听，但这个时候有人打来，还是第一次。
As one of the first psychologists in Zhejiang province to support Wuhan, Tang Wei made his cell phone number public from the first day he entered the cabin, emphasizing 24-hour access, but it was the first time someone had called.
划开手机，电话那头是一个弱弱的女孩，“您能给我保密吗？”得到肯定回答后，女孩小声啜泣起来，很快发展到嚎啕大哭。
On the other end of the line was a weak girl, "Could you keep it a secret?" When she got the affirmative answer, she sobbed in a low voice and soon burst into tears.
大约半个小时后，她开始讲述自己的故事。
About half an hour later, she began to tell her story.
女孩22岁，是名护士，半个月前来的武汉，自己报的名，属于脑袋一热的冲动型。
Girl 22-year-old, is a nurse, half a month ago in Wuhan, their own newspaper name, belongs to a hot head impulse type.
到了武汉以后，被分配到了护理轻症患者的方舱。
Arrived in Wuhan, was assigned to care for the patients with mild illness square cabin.
刚来的时候，女孩还有些新鲜感，也不感到害怕。
When she first came, the girl felt something new and unafraid.
大约一个礼拜以后，她产生了恐惧心理，一方面是新闻里不断有医生感染去世的消息，另一方面是她每天都要看护200多名确诊患者，有的患者昨天还好好的，今天就突发重症被转走了。
About a week later, she became terrified of the news of a doctor dying of infection and of the fact that she was taking care of more than 200 confirmed patients every day, some of whom were doing well yesterday, and were being rushed off with serious illnesses today.
慢慢的，她开始吃不下饭，睡不好觉，一闭眼就是方舱里的画面，赶也赶不走。
Slowly, she began to eat food, sleep well, a closed eye is the cabin screen, catch up with no way out.
打来求助电话的前一天，女孩从新闻里看到武汉被感染的医护人员数量超过3000名，感染率接近10%。
The day before the call, the girl read on the news that Wuhan had more than 3,000 hospital staff infected, with a rate of infection of nearly 10 percent.
这个数字成了压垮她的最后一根稻草，女孩崩溃了。
The number was the last straw that crushed her, and the girl collapsed.
“我也不知道该做什么，只能拿着电话听她哭诉。
"I don't know what to do. I just hold the phone and listen to her cry.
”唐伟是温州康宁医院集团精神心理科的主任医师，曾经参与过汶川地震、温州723动车事故、丽水里东山体滑坡等大型灾害的心理援助，经验丰富。
Tang Wei is the director of the Psychiatric Department of Wenzhou Conning Hospital Group and has extensive experience in providing psychological assistance to major disasters such as the Wenchuan earthquake, the Wenzhou 723 motor vehicle accident and the Lishui Lidong Landslide.
但这一晚，他什么都没做，只是抱着手机听了三个小时。
But this night, he did nothing but listen to the phone for three hours.
天快亮时，他问女孩，你能睡一会儿了吗。
Toward daybreak he asked the girl if you could sleep for a while.
女孩回答说能睡了，他们就这样挂断了电话。
The girl replied that she could sleep, so they hung up the phone.
挂断电话前，唐伟说，“如果以后晚上还是睡不着，打我电话，我会陪伴你。
Before hanging up, Tang said, "If you can't sleep for the rest of the night, call me and I'll be there for you.
”“这是武汉一线医护人员当中比较普遍的状态，刚开始谁都不觉得有什么，但时间一长，身体的劳累和心理的恐惧已经到极限了。
"This is a relatively common state among Wuhan frontline medical staff, and no one felt anything at first, but as time went on, physical exertions and psychological fears were at their limits.
”唐伟告诉八点健闻，汶川地震的时候，一线的医护人员15天左右要轮换，否则会引发严重的焦虑情绪。
"Tang Wei told eight JianWen Wenchuan earthquake, the first-line medical staff about 15 days to rotate, or it will cause serious anxiety.
但这次，部分医护人员已经扛了一个多月。
But this time, some medical personnel have been carrying out more than a month.
广州艾力彼医院管理研究中心近日的一份问卷调查结果显示，85%的一线医护人员认为疫情期间的工作负荷是平时的1-2倍，有6%的人认为工作负荷是平时的4倍以上。
Eighty-five percent of frontline health-care workers said their workload during the epidemic was one to two times higher than usual, and six percent said it was more than four times as high, according to a recent survey conducted by the Guangzhou Ellippe Hospital Management Research Center.
近七成医护人员睡眠质量受到影响，部分医护人员出现强迫症，比如看到水龙头就去洗手。
Nearly 70% of health care workers sleep quality affected, some medical personnel have obsessive-compulsive disorder, such as to wash their hands at the sight of taps.
2月3日，国家卫健委召开新闻发布会，首次提及疫情防控中心理干预的重要性。
On February 3, the National Health Commission held a press conference to make the first mention of the importance of psychological intervention in the prevention and control of the epidemic.
2月9日，唐伟跟随浙江第三批医疗队来到武汉，这是浙江首次组建心理危机干预和救援专家组。
On February 9, Tang Wei followed a third medical team from Zhejiang to Wuhan, the first time Zhejiang had set up a psychological crisis intervention and rescue team.
差不多同时，全国各地的医疗队也都带上了自己的心理医生。
Around the same time, medical teams around the country brought their own psychiatrists.
在唐伟的手机微信里，有一个全国医疗队心理医生的大群，里面的人数不断增长，现在已达209人。
In Mr. Tang's cell phone, there is a large group of psychiatrists for the national medical team, whose numbers are growing and now number 209.
他们的任务很明确，一、保证救援队里所有医护人员的心理健康。
Their task is very clear, first, to ensure the mental health of all the medical personnel in the rescue team.
二、为武汉的患者提供力所能及就的帮助。
To provide assistance to Wuhan patients according to their ability.
医护人员被“英雄化”带来心理隐患官方体系之外，民间心理咨询师临时组建的志愿者团队更早地介入了疫情之中。
In addition to the official system of "heroization" of health-care workers, volunteer teams formed by civil counselors became involved in the epidemic even earlier.
薛芃均是在大年三十那天“入编”的。
Ariel was appointed on the thirtieth day of the New Year.
当晚，一位武汉当地医院的精神科医生在群里发起了求助，他所在的医院有100多名医护工作者从一线撤了下来，急需心理干预。
That night, a psychiatrist from a local hospital in Wuhan, where more than 100 health-care workers were evacuated from the front line, urgently needed psychological intervention.
因为有国家二级心理咨询师的资质，又有过临终关怀的经历，薛芃均被选中。
Ariel was chosen because of her qualifications as a state-level consultant and her experience of hospice care.
第二天，她就拿到了6名医护人员的基本信息，包括他们目前的状态以及可能存在的心理问题，并且医院已经协调好了时间，需要她主动把电话拨过去，1天3个人。
The next day, she was provided with basic information about the six paramedics, including their current condition and possible psychological problems, and the hospital had coordinated its time, requiring her to dial the telephone at her own initiative, three people a day.
“6个人里，几乎每个人都写了焦虑、失眠，有人因为身体有一些症状，表达了对死亡的恐惧。
"Almost everyone in six wrote about anxiety, insomnia, and fear of death because of some physical symptoms.
还有一个90后的小姑娘，她写的是，看到密密麻麻的人群，害怕发生暴动。
There was also a 90-year-old girl who wrote of seeing a crowd of people and fearing a riot.
”湖北省心理咨询师协会理事李萌，也是最早参与疫情救助的心理咨询师之一。
Li Meng, director of the Hubei Psychological Association, was one of the first counsellors to participate in the epidemic relief efforts.
她加入了一个有200多人的心理援助团队，因为是最早的成建制的民间志愿者团体，他们被允许接听武汉市心理危机干预的热线电话。
She joined a team of more than 200 people who were allowed to answer the Wuhan psychological crisis intervention hotline because she was the first organized group of civilian volunteers.
她接到的第一个电话也和医护人员有关。
The first phone call she got had to do with paramedics.
一对外省的夫妻向她求助，他们的儿子在武汉某家医院做护士，穿着防护服顶在最危险的一线，已经连续一周了，每天脱下防护服的时候，内衣内裤都是湿透的。
A couple of provincial husbands and wives turned to her for help. Their son, a nurse at a Wuhan hospital, had been wearing protective clothing at the top of the most dangerous line for a week, and his underwear was drenched every day when he took off his protective clothing.
这几天他们明显感到儿子情绪不对，不接电话，短信也只回几个字，沟通不畅的情况下，两个老人简直被逼疯了。
These days, apparently feeling his son is not in the right mood, do not answer the phone, text messages only a few words, communication is not smooth, the two old people are almost driven crazy.
照着他们给的号码，李萌加上了那个男孩的微信，但男孩并不想和她说话，每天只简单回复几句“我刚下班”、“我很累”、“我要先去睡一下”。
With the number they gave, Li Meng added the boy's micro-letter, but the boy did not want to talk to her, but answered only a few words a day: "I just got off work," "I'm tired," "I'm going to bed first."
几天后，男孩主动给她发来信息，说自己被感染了，核酸检测阳性，已经被送进了隔离病房。
A few days later, the boy took the initiative to send her a message that he was infected, nucleic acid positive, has been sent to the isolation ward.
可即便是这样，他依然不愿多说。
Even so, he would not say more.
他曾经给李萌发过一条信息，大意是，我每天光是脱一套防护服就有20多道工序，你们外人根本没法理解。
He once sent a message to Lee to the effect that I take off a suit of protective clothing every day in more than 20 procedures, you do not understand.
这是他打字最多的一次。
This is the most typing he has ever done.
“他最需要的是真诚的陪伴，不论是线上还是线下。
"What he needs most is sincere companionship, both online and offline.
但像我们这样，仅仅只是网友，没法建立起这种信任关系。
But like us, it's just netizens who can't build this relationship of trust.
从心理援助的角度来说，他不求助，我是不能去做的，这就是早期我们碰到的最大问题，我有心，但使不上劲。
From a psychological point of view, he did not ask for help, I can not do it, this is the early we encountered the biggest problem, I have the intention, but do not make it exciting.
”李萌向八点健闻感慨道。
'Li Meng sighed at eight o'clock.
这种尴尬在更大范围内存在。
This awkwardness exists on a wider scale.
唐伟曾经接触过一位最早来武汉支援的女医生，据她的描述，在医疗队的驻地里，晚上经常能听到有人嘶吼，有人哭闹，甚至夹杂着匪夷所思的怪笑声。
Tang Wei once contacted a female doctor who had come to Wuhan to support her. She described how, in the medical team's compound, people often heard shouting, crying and even incomprehensible laughter at night.
相比于寻求心理专家的帮助，这些医生更愿意独自面对压力。
These doctors are more likely to deal with stress alone than to seek help from a therapist.
唐伟认为，这背后，是一种危险的“被英雄化”的信号。
Behind this, says Mr Tang, is a dangerous signal of "heroism."
“尤其是一些外地来救援的，临行前各地都搞了欢送仪式，胸前戴过大红花的，他们已经被这个社会视为英雄了，这一点反过来会提醒他们，你们是英雄，你们不可以胆小，不可以害怕，即便有，也不可以被人知道。
In particular, some of the people who came to the rescue in some other places before their departure have had farewell ceremonies and worn red flowers on their chests, and this in turn will remind them that you are heroes and that you must not be timid or afraid or, if you do, not known.
”空巢老人憋得太久，心里那根弦快崩断了因为是公开的求助热线，除了医护人员以外，李萌更多面对到的是普通的武汉市民。
The old man's empty nest was pent up for too long, and the string was about to break down because it was an open helpline.
李萌告诉八点健闻，早期大家打电话来，基本是以询问为主，比如说问一下这个病有多严重，还要隔离多久，疫情什么时候能结束，情绪上都没有问题。
Li Meng told Meng eight that the early calls were basically to ask questions about the severity of the disease, how long it would take to remain isolated, and when the outbreak would end.
但到了2月中旬的一天，她突然感觉风向变了。
But one day in mid-February, she suddenly felt the wind change.
那一天上午，她一口气接了5个热线电话，清一色都是家住武汉的空巢老人。
That morning she answered five hotlines, all empty nests in Wuhan.
这个缺乏家庭关系支持的脆弱群体，最先表现出“疑冠”的特征。
This vulnerable group, lacking the support of family ties, was the first to show signs of suspicion.
一个57岁的老大爷，10天前去药店买过一次药，之后再也没出过门。
A 57-year-old man went to the drugstore 10 days ago to buy a pill and never went outside again.
有一天，他从电视上看到新闻，说河南有人因为去药店买双黄连被感染了新冠病毒，他由此怀疑自己也染上了病，失眠了一整晚。
One day, he read the news on TV that someone in Henan province had been infected with Newcastle virus because he went to the pharmacy to buy Shuanghuanglian.
那一个晚上，他隐隐觉得喉咙发痒，浑身燥热，之前在新闻里看到过的“新冠”症状在他身上一一应证，他觉得自己离死不远了。
That night, his throat felt itchy and hot, and the "new crown" symptoms he had seen on the news bore witness to his feeling that he was not far from death.
第二天一早，老人迫不及待地拨通了热线电话。
Early the next morning, the old man couldn't wait to dial the hotline.
“面对这样的老人，我们第一要确定他是不是健康的，有没有发烧咳嗽。
"Faced with such an old man, we must first determine whether he is healthy and has a fever and cough.
第二要确定他是不是安全的，食物够不够吃。
The second is to make sure that he is safe and that the food is sufficient.
一般来说，能打心理热线寻求援助的人，在这些方面都没问题。
In general, those who can call the helpline for assistance have no problems in these areas.
他们的问题是憋得太久了，心里那根弦快绷断了。
Their problems had been pent up for too long, and the string was about to break.
”把弦崩断的后果是灾难性的。
The consequences of breaking the string would be disastrous.
2月16日，家住武汉市汉南区的杨元运，就是因为怀疑自己感染了新冠肺炎，独自翻墙离开小区，在一处废弃厂房里上吊自杀。
On Feb. 16, Yang Yuanyun, who lives in Wuhan city's Hannan District, left the area alone after suspected of contracting pneumonia and hanged himself in an abandoned factory building.
他在留给家人的遗书上写道：疫情与自己开了玩笑，但坦然接受它的洗礼。
He wrote in his last letter to his family that the outbreak had been a joke on him, but that he had accepted its baptism.
可即便是到死，杨元运也不知道自己是否真的得病了。
But even then, Yang Yuanyun didn't know whether he was really ill or not.
他曾向社区工作人员反映，自己每天都在和病魔斗争，吃不好睡不好。
He told community workers that he struggled with his illness every day and couldn't sleep well.
因为害怕传染给家人，他又哀求道：就算不是这个病，也应该让我住院呀。
Because he was afraid of infecting his family, he begged, If it wasn't for the disease, I should be admitted to the hospital.
得到的回复是：床位紧张，服务不过来。
The response was that the bed was tight and the service was not available.
“不管他有没有得这个病，从他主动向社区发起的求助行为来看，如果能够接受到合适的心理干预，这场悲剧完全可以避免。
"Whether he has the disease or not, the tragedy could have been avoided if he had received the appropriate psychological intervention," he said.
”热线志愿者李娟告诉八点健闻，她也接到过不少疑似患者的电话，绝大部分人在事后都被证明没有感染，只是因为死亡离得太近了，所有人都不自觉地陷入到了对未知的恐惧中。
"Li Juan, a volunteer with the hotline, told Eight Health News that she had also received calls from suspected patients, most of whom turned out not to be infected after the event, just because the death was too close and everyone had fallen into an unconscious fear of the unknown.
她曾经在平台上碰到过一个求援者。
She met a rescuer on the platform.
电话接起来后，她循例说了一段开场白：你好，我们这里是某某平台的疫情热线，我是咨询师李娟，您有什么和疫情相关的问题？电话那头立马就传来了不愉快的回应：我现在只是怀疑自己得了这个病，你说你这是疫情热线，是不是就等于打这个电话的都是得了病的，你的话让我很不爽。
After the telephone answered, she made a routine opening speech: Hello, we are here is the Platforms epidemic hotline, I am Li Juan, consultant, you have any problems related to the epidemic? The phone immediately came an unpleasant response: I just suspected that you have this disease, you said this is the epidemic hotline, is not the same as the call is sick, your words made me very unhappy.
接下来的时间里，这位求援者喋喋不休地抱怨了10多分钟，从那句小小的开场白骂到武汉市政府的不作为，再上升到人类为什么要吃野味，打破生态平衡的话题高度。
Over the next 10 minutes, the rescuer chattered away for more than 10 minutes, from that small opening remark to the inaction of Wuhan city government, and then rose to the point where human beings should eat game and break the ecological balance.
最后，不等李娟回应，他自己挂掉了电话。
Finally, without waiting for Li Juan to reply, he hung up the phone himself.
“我觉得在那10多钟的时间里，我应该是帮到了他的，至少让他把憋在心里的话说出来了。
"I think I helped him for more than 10 minutes, or at least got him to say what he was holding back.
”李娟说，这一类求援者的比重不小，尤其是随着疫情的进展，居家隔离持续的时间越来越长，她明显感到电话那头的情绪也越来越激烈。
Li said the numbers of people in this category were not small, especially as the epidemic continued and the isolation grew longer and longer, and she clearly felt the emotions growing at the other end of the line.
为了保证心理咨询师本人的健康，平台限制每个人每天只能接听5个电话，每个电话不超过25分钟。
To ensure the well-being of the counselor himself, the platform limits each person to only five calls per day, each for up to 25 minutes.
“就算一天只接一个，平台也是允许的。
"Even if you only take one one a day, the platform is allowed.
”但唐伟显然没有给自己留下这样的空间。
But Mr Tang clearly does not leave room for himself.
他所服务的日海方舱是武汉最大的方舱医院，总共有4500张床位，他去了三次方舱，通过简单对话，来筛查重点要关注的患者和医护人员，回到酒店以后就是24小时不断的接听电话或者是微信视频，每一次通话都是一次负面情绪的堆积。
The Japanese cabin he served was Wuhan's largest cabin hospital, with 4,500 beds, and he went three times to check for patients and health-care workers who needed attention through simple conversations. Each call was a 24-hour round-the-clock phone call or a microphone video. Each call was a pile of negative emotions.
“我现在每天做三次俯卧撑，早中晚各一次，每次做30-40个，把自己做到精疲力尽，然后洗个热水澡。
"I do push-ups three times a day, one in the morning and one in the evening, 30 to 40 at a time, to exhaust myself and take a hot bath.
不然没法放松，我也会憋出病的。
I can't relax. I can't hold my breath.
”唐伟告诉八点健闻，从2月9日出发算起，他已经连续工作了17天，整个人瘦了9斤。
Mr. Tang told Mr. eight that he had worked 17 consecutive days since February 9, losing nine pounds.
所有的观察角度只剩下声音难题还在不断地冒出来。
All that remained of all the angles of observation was the question of sound.
比如，李萌前几天又接到了一个电话，一个70多岁的老大爷，他原本心态很好，在家没事还能喝点小酒。
For example, a few days ago, Li received a phone call, a 70-year-old grandfather, he was in a good mood, nothing at home and can drink wine.
这一次，他打电话向社区要一个口罩，社区的工作人员又忙于别的琐事，在回复他时欠了一些礼貌，老人就觉得胸口压了一团火，他和李萌抱怨，“他们怎么可以这么和我说话，一点都不尊重我。
This time he called the community for a mask, and the community workers were busy with other trifles, and the old man felt a fire in his chest. He and Li Meng complained, 'How can they talk to me like this without any respect for me?
”唐伟也开始被这些职责以外的事情所困扰。
Mr. Tang, too, is beginning to get bogged down in things other than those responsibilities.
他正试图安慰一个方舱的患者，这名中年妇女刚刚确诊，因为症状较轻被社区强制送来了方舱医院。
He was trying to comfort a cabin patient who had just been diagnosed with mild symptoms and had been sent to the cabin hospital by the community.
她倒是认同政府的政策，但她这一走，家里的儿子没人管了，吃饭成了最大的问题。
She agreed with the government's policy, but when she left, the family son was left to fend for herself and eating became the biggest problem.
她质问唐伟，“你让我不要焦虑，不要担心，那你去我家给孩子送饭行不行。
"She asks Tang Wei," You tell me not to worry, don't worry, then you go to my home to bring food for the children will not be ok.
”在这场重大的突发事件面前，所有武汉市民似乎都能理解政府的初心，隐忍地牺牲了自己的自由。
"In the face of this momentous event, all the citizens of Wuhan seemed to understand the government's incipient heart and sacrifice their freedom with constancy.
但另一方面，他们也确实会因此陷入真实的困境之中，那些平时看来小得不能再小的事儿，在突然停摆的城市面前，都和人命挂起了钩。
But, on the other hand, they do find themselves in a real quandary, in which everything that usually seems too small is tied to human life in the face of a city that suddenly stops.
“这是这次疫情很特殊的一个点，我们更多时候扮演的是一个介于心理专家和社工之间的角色，除了放松情绪以外，我们也要帮助促进他们有能力解决实际问题。
"This is a very special point in the epidemic. We are more often playing a role between a psychologist and a social worker. In addition to relaxing our emotions, we need to help empower them to solve real problems.
比如说告知他们在网上买菜的途径，帮他查一下小区的网格员是谁，你得准备好这些信息资料来安抚他。
For example, tell them how to shop online, check out who the grid is in the neighborhood, and you'll have to have the information ready to appease him.
”李萌说道。
'she said.
另一个困境则和隔离有关。
Another dilemma concerns segregation.
无法面对面的交流削弱了心理干预的精准性，所有接受采访的心理咨询师无一例外都谈到了这一点。
The lack of face-to-face communication weakens the precision of psychological interventions, as all counselors interviewed invariably point out.
唐伟曾经接到过一个电话，对方开口第一句话就是“我不想活了，我要自杀。
Tang Wei once received a phone call, the other side opened the first sentence is: "I do not want to live, I want to commit suicide.
”他当即被吓出一身冷汗，因为他不知道对方正处于什么情境之下，是躺在家里的床上开玩笑说的，还是站在30楼的楼顶。
"He was immediately frightened into a cold sweat, for he did not know what the situation was like, lying in his bed at home joking or standing on the top of the 30th floor.
好在最后被证明是一场虚惊，一个青春期的熊孩子因为无法外出，天真地以为，出去是被病毒害死，在家是被自己憋死，我还不如出门“自杀”呢。
Luckily, it turned out to be a false alarm. Unable to go out, an adolescent bear child naively thought that going out was a virus killing him and suffocating him at home.
“这种情况从来没有碰到过，之前即便是汶川地震，我们也是和求援者面对面坐着，我需要从他的动作、表情、对环境的反应来判断他的情绪状况，但现在，所有的观察角度只剩下声音，这就给心理医生带来了很大的挑战。
"This has never happened before, even after the Wenchuan earthquake, we sat face-to-face with the rescuers, I need to judge his emotional state by his actions, his expression, his reaction to the environment, but now all the angles of observation are sound, which poses a great challenge to the psychiatrist.
”另一个不可回避的点在于，心理干预往往需要两个人先建立信任关系。
Another unavoidable point is that psychological intervention often requires two people to establish a relationship of trust first.
在日常生活中，心理医生和患者大概要面对面交流5-10次，每次一个小时左右，才可能找到那个宝贵的连接点，从而建立信任关系，顺利完成治疗。
In everyday life, the psychologist and the patient are expected to meet face-to-face about 5-10 times, for about an hour at a time, to find that valuable connection, thus building a relationship of trust and successful completion of treatment.
这在疫情时期几乎不可能实现。
This is almost impossible to achieve in an epidemic.
李萌也参与了汶川地震的一线救援，在对比这两次事件时，她同样觉得武汉疫情的心理干预更难完成。
Li Meng also took part in the first-line rescue of the Wenchuan earthquake, and when comparing the two events, she also found the psychological intervention of the Wuhan epidemic more difficult to accomplish.
“汶川那时候是已经发生了，面对一个非常灾难的结果，我们要怎么做。
"Wenchuan that time is already happening, in the face of a very catastrophic result, we have to do.
比如一座学校倒塌了，孩子都没了，家长的内心极度痛苦，对我们来说这都是明确的，并且灾难已经结束，不可能更坏了。
If, for example, a school collapses and the children are gone, the parents' inner anguish is clear to us, and the disaster is over, it cannot get worse.
但武汉不一样，所有人都处于死亡的恐惧中，“谁也不知道会不会好起来，什么时候好起来。
Wuhan, however, is not the same, all people are in the fear of death, "no one knows whether it will get better, when it will get better.
”对死亡患者家属的哀伤干预但事实上，对于心理医生的考验还远没未到来。
Mourning intervention for the families of the dead but, in fact, the test for a psychiatrist is far from over.
唐伟说，按照过去大型灾难心理救援的经验来看，对于死亡的恐惧很快就会过去，只有死亡本身才会留下永恒的伤害。
'Based on past experience with the psychological relief of major disasters, the fear of death quickly passes, and only death itself can leave lasting damage, 'Mr. Tang said.
“我们当时在汶川做的就是哀伤干预，现在这一块没有做起来，大家的注意力都还在一线的医护人员身上，那些死亡患者的家属的心理需求还没有被看到。
"What we were doing in Wenchuan was mourning intervention, but this one is not up for grabs, attention is still on the front line and the psychological needs of the families of those who died have not yet been seen."
”他提到了这几天的一则新闻。
He mentioned a news item from the last few days.
湖北十堰市一个六岁的男孩，平时和爷爷生活在一起。
Hubei Shiyan City, a six-year-old boy, and Grandpa usually live together.
最近一次志愿者上门测量体温时，发现爷爷已经死在家中，这个可怜的男孩因为听了爷爷生前的话，“外面有病毒，不能出去”，守着尸体过了好几天，被发现时已经有些木讷。
Recently, when the volunteers came to take their temperature, they found that Grandpa had died at home. The poor boy, who had listened to Grandpa's words, "There is a virus outside, so he can't go out."
“这就是典型的需要哀伤干预的对象，如果不及时介入，很大概率会患上创伤后应激障碍，也就是我们常说的PTSD。
"This is typically the subject of a mourning intervention, and if you don't intervene in time, you have a very high probability of developing post-traumatic stress disorder, known as PTSD," he said.
”唐伟说，几天前，杭州市心理协会已经开通了两路热线，一路开到湖北，一路开到武汉，专门接听死亡患者家属的电话。
Mr. Tang said that a few days ago, the Hangzhou Psychological Association had opened a two-way hotline, driving all the way to Hubei province and all the way to Wuhan to answer calls from the families of the dead.
在他看来，这个群体至少面临两种压力，一是家里有人确诊死亡，意味着家属要被隔离起来，他们也要面临死亡威胁。
In his view, this group faces at least two kinds of pressures, one is the confirmed death of a family member, which means that the family is to be isolated and they also face death threats.
二是在现阶段，新冠死亡的病人会被直接拉到殡仪馆火化，亲人没有准备丧葬事宜的机会，这对于恪守传统伦理的中国人来说，也是一个不小的打击。
Second, at this stage, the new crown dead patients will be directly to the funeral home cremation, relatives do not have the opportunity to prepare funeral matters, it is also a traditional ethical Chinese, it is no small blow.
薛芃均和她背后的团队很早就关注到了这一现象，本身就参与过临终关怀，使得他们有更多的底气和资源。
Ariel and her team have been concerned with this phenomenon very early on and have herself been involved in hospice care which gives her more strength and resources.
但直到今天，这个项目仍然迟迟没法启动，薛芃均说，事实上，内部培训都已经做完了，但大家只对一件事没有把握——线上的效果。
Ariel said that all the in-house training has already been done, but all of us are not sure of one thing--her work on the line.
“哀伤干预和一般的心理援助很不一样，因为涉及到具体的死亡，所以我们很怕会给求援者带来二次伤害。
"Mourning interventions are very different from psychological assistance in general, because there are specific deaths involved, so we are afraid of causing secondary harm to those who seek help.
”薛芃均告诉八点健闻，哀伤干预最重要的两条原则，一是真诚陪伴，二是尽量避免回忆，“但是如果是在线上做，几乎这两条原则都会被打破。
Ariel told eight points about the two most important principles for Ariel's intervention, one is to be faithful to her husband and the other is to avoid her memories.
”唐伟试图解决这个问题。
Tang Wei tried to solve the problem.
他和杭州市心理协会的两路热线取得了联系，希望达成一个前后方合作的模式，即杭州的工作人员在后方接听热线，筛选出情况比较严重的对象，由他在武汉当地寻求面对面干预的可能。
He has made contact with two hotlines of the Hangzhou Psychological Association and hopes to reach a model of forward and backward cooperation whereby Hangzhou staff will answer the hotline at the back and screen out the more serious cases for him to seek face-to-face intervention locally in Wuhan.
但目前，这些事还有太多的不确定性，比如说他能不能得到允许走出宾馆，对方的社区能不能放他进去。
But for now, there is too much uncertainty about whether he will be allowed out of the hotel, or whether the other side's community will let him in.
如果上头支持，他相信这些问题都能解决，所以如果有可能，他希望媒体也能帮忙呼吁。
If supported above, he believes that these problems can be solved, so if possible, he would like the media to help appeal as well.
“武汉人民太苦了，我们做多少都是应该的。
"Wuhan people are so bitter, we should do as much as we should.
”毛晓琼|撰稿微信号：234379189季敏华|责编微信号：janejiminhua我们尊重原创版权，未经允许请勿转载。
Mao Xiaoqiong & # 124; & # 44; Writing microsignal: 2343 79189 Season Minhua & # 124; Blame microsignal: janejiminhua We respect original copyright and do not reproduce it without permission.
授权转载郑琪 微信号:1281949389商务合作上海：leslee 13916263824北京：Jessie 13911125922线索爆料、意见反馈，加入核心读者社群请扫码联系健闻君让朋友们看到你也在看↓↓↓。
Authorized reprint of Zheng Qi microsignal: 1281949389 Commercial Cooperation Shanghai: Leslee 13916263824 Beijing: Jessie 13911125922 Tells burst of material, feedback, join the core reader community, please sweep the code to let your friends see you, too.
健闻毛晓琼。
Hear Mao Xiaoqiong.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
治愈武汉的心理创伤，需要比震后汶川付出更多。
Wuhan to heal the psychological trauma, need to pay more than Wenchuan after the earthquake.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "八点健闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at eight.
var msg_title = "治愈武汉的心理创伤，需要比震后汶川付出更多";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "平时小得不能再小的事，突然都变得生死攸关";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="八点健闻";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; eight.
