救命药：HIV感染者捐助新冠感染者。
Life-saving drugs: People living with HIV donate to new infections.
GS乐点。
GS Music Point.
GS乐点                      。
GS Music Point.
GS乐点。
GS Music Point.
独立杂志，关注性少数群体的存在与生存。
Independent magazine focusing on the existence and survival of sexual minorities.
。
.
文|王大湿图|松鼠投稿邮箱| gayspot_edit@163.com松鼠是一个HIV感染者互助平台的核心人物，这个平台平时主要帮助感染者把暂时不用的药物拿出来，借给需要应急的人。
AT & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; squirrel & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; &
1月23号当日凌晨，武汉市政府发布封城通告，从23日上午10时开始，全市公交、地铁、轮渡、长途客运暂停营运，机场、火车站离汉通道暂时关闭。
In the early hours of January 23, Wuhan city government issued a closure notice, starting from 10: 00 a.m. 23, the city's public transport, subway, ferry, long-distance passenger transport operation, the airport, railway stations from Han corridor temporarily closed.
由于封城的消息发布在凌晨，大部分武汉市民尚在睡梦中，一觉醒来，城市已近乎停转，试图开私家车做最后逃离的民众在出城的必经之路上堵得严严实实。
As news of the siege was released in the early hours of the morning, most Wuhan citizens were still asleep. When they woke up, the city had almost stopped, and the last people who tried to escape in private cars were stopped up on the necessary way out of the city.
当天，即有身处武汉的HIV感染者向他求助：回不去了，能借药给我吗？克力芝对新冠病毒有效八年前松鼠还在北京，刚刚拿到大学毕业证的同时，他也拿到了艾滋病的确诊报告单。
On the same day, a person living with HIV in Wuhan turned to him for help: Can't go back, can I borrow some medicine? Kaletrich was still in Beijing eight years ago, just after getting his college diploma, he got a confirmed AIDS report card.
在经历了短暂的沮丧期后，他试着跟自己达成和解。
After a brief period of depression, he tried to reconcile with himself.
毕业后松鼠去了广州，成为写字楼里的一名白领，每天循规蹈矩地生活，也渐渐放下追求完满的执念。
After graduation squirrel went to Guangzhou and became a white-collar worker in an office building, living by the rules every day.
平时上班，周末健身，还有非常准时的每隔三个月到定点医院“打卡”，拿自己的药。
Usually work, weekend fitness, but also very punctual every three months to the point of the hospital "punch card", take their own medicine.
治疗艾滋病的药物有很多种，医生会根据每人的身体情况搭建出一个组合，这被称为鸡尾酒疗法。
There are many different drugs to treat AIDS, and doctors make a combination based on each person's physical condition. This is called cocktail therapy.
八年时间里，有三年多，松鼠吃的都是克力芝。
For eight years, for more than three years, squirrels ate Kaletra.
作为免费药，克力芝也有自身的局限，每天要吃两次不说，一些人还会拉肚子。
As a free medicine, Kaletra also has its own limitations, to eat twice a day do not say, some people will also have diarrhea.
“如果有条件的话，很多患者会选择自费药，副作用小。
"If conditions permit, many patients will choose to pay for their own drugs, the side effects are small.
”同时克力芝作为进口药，因为有专利限制，国内药厂并不能生产。
At the same time, Kaletra is an imported drug that domestic manufacturers cannot produce because of patent restrictions.
2017年，松鼠来到郑州定居，方便有更多时间陪伴家人。
In 2017, squirrels came to Zhengzhou to settle down, so that they could spend more time with their families.
“我比以前的我快乐，而且，我相信经常健身的自己比很多同龄人更健康。
"I'm happier than I used to be, and I believe I'm healthier than many of my peers who work out regularly.
”开明的妈妈在第一时间知道儿子感染了艾滋，男朋友也知道，“他是阴性，不介意。
"The enlightened mother first learned that her son was infected with AIDS, and her boyfriend knew," He's negative, don't mind.
”远离一线城市多少还是不便，譬如拿药时每次都得排很长的队。
Getting far away from first-tier cities, such as long queues for drugs at a time, is still inconvenient.
而且，并不是每人都总能在限定时间内取药，常有人因故错过时间，但药物是按照名额配给，医院不会多给。
Moreover, it is not always possible for everyone to get medicine within the prescribed time. People often miss the time, but the medicine is rationed according to the quota and the hospital does not give more.
“毕竟一天都不能停，谁都有个麻烦的时候。
"After all, you can't stop for a day. Everyone has a problem.
”他发现不止自己有类似的困扰，于是就在一个互助平台发动活动，帮助感染者把暂时闲置的药物拿出来，借给需要应急的人。
Finding that he wasn't alone in his troubles, he launched a campaign on a solidarity platform to help infected people pull out their temporarily idle drugs and lend them to those in need.
向他借药的既有忙于出差的白领，也有假期回家的学生，“这个群体是非常丰富的，包含各种各样的职业、年龄段和收入层次，每个人都有自己生活的悲喜。
He borrowed money from white-collar workers busy with business trips and students returning home from vacation. "This group is very rich, it includes all kinds of occupations, age groups and income levels, and everyone has his or her own happiness and sorrow.
”松鼠是这群人的核心，他把自己的微博名称就改为“HIV松鼠哥”，对于身份，“没有什么好介意的。
Squirrels are at the heart of the group, changing his tweet name to "HIV Squirrel Brother." There's nothing to mind about identity.
”他脑子活，懂英文，又体贴人，互助平台成员已遍布全国三十多个城市。
He is intelligent, English-speaking and considerate, and has a network of more than 30 cities around the country.
封城的消息令他不安，把打包好的快递寄出去，他只能默默祈祷，“希望在武汉也能收到吧。
The news of the cityscape disturbed him. He mailed the parcel, praying silently, "I hope to receive it in Wuhan."
”他嘱咐病友，“各位记住不论到什么时候都一定要先顾好自己，感染者的药就是命。
"And he enjoined his sick friend," Remember to take good care of yourself at all times, for the medicine of the infected is life.
”相比快递，让人更忧心的是疫情增长，由于没有明确可以用于治疗的药物，恐慌如飓风到来前的乌云迅速聚集，加之冬季本就是呼吸道疾病高发季节，武汉当地的医院已经挤得沙丁鱼罐头一样。
More worrying than couriers is the increase in the number of sardines packed into local hospitals in Wuhan because of the lack of medicines to treat them, the rapid build-up of panic clouds ahead of a hurricane and the high incidence of respiratory illnesses in winter.
接连发生一线医护人员感染新冠肺炎，更是让本来就已极度紧张的医疗系统濒临崩溃。
A spate of cases of front-line staff contracting pneumonia has brought an already strained health system to the brink of collapse.
武汉市政府已经发布公告，要求出现症状的疑似患者自行在家隔离。
Wuhan city government has issued a notice that the symptoms of the suspected patients are self-isolation.
1月26日，国家卫健委发布新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案（试行第三版），其中对于口服药物治疗一栏中，增加了推荐使用洛匹那韦利托那韦每次2粒，一日二次。
On January 26, the National Fitness and Health Commission announced a pneumonia diagnosis and treatment programme for a new coronavirus infection (trial version 3), in which two tablets of Lopinaveritonavir are recommended for oral drug treatment, twice a day.
这条新闻被广泛转发。
The news was widely relayed.
有药，就意味着还有一线生机。
There is medicine, it means there is still a ray of life.
那一长串药物名称对于一般人来说可能难以理解，可松鼠“跟艾滋病打了八年交道”，对于那些名字，他太熟悉了，那就是克力芝。
The long list of drug names may be difficult for the average person to understand, but squirrels "have dealt with AIDS for eight years," and he knows them all too well, Kaletra.
“要感谢志愿者”国内药厂把洛匹那韦利托那韦片命名为克力芝，作为蛋白酶抑制剂的一种，它的作用是降低蛋白酶的活性，从而抑制病毒在细胞内的复制，从2000年开始，洛匹那韦利托那韦片被用于抗病毒治疗。
"Thanks to the volunteers," the domestic pharmaceutical company named the Lopinavelitonavir tablet Kaletra, a protease inhibitor whose role is to reduce protease activity and thus inhibit the replication of the virus in cells. Since 2000, Lopinavelitonavir tablets have been used in antiviral therapy.
26日国家卫健委把克力芝列入治疗新冠肺炎的药物，但对于松鼠和互助平台的成员而言，更早的消息要追溯到1月22日深夜。
On January 26, the National Fitness and Health Commission listed Kaletra as a treatment for pneumonia, but for squirrels and members of the Mutual Aid Platform, earlier news dates back to the late night of January 22.
北京大学第一医院呼吸和危重症医学科主任王广发的一条微博引起了他们的注意，在抗疫第一线的他21日被确诊感染新冠肺炎，凭着丰富的医学经验和“神农尝百草”的精神，王广发开始在隔离病房内自我治疗，他给自己吃的就是克力芝。
Wang Guangfa, director of respiratory and critical medicine at Peking University Hospital No. 1, caught their attention. On the 21st he was diagnosed with New Crown Pneumonia. With his rich medical experience and the spirit of "Shennong and paraquat," Wang Guangfa began to treat himself in the isolation ward.
一天后，他在自己的微博“北大呼吸发哥”上说：“经过1天的治疗，今天终于不发热了，甚是高兴。
A day later, he said on his microblog "Breath Hair Brother": "After a day of treatment, the fever has finally stopped and he is very happy.
”上海市公共卫生临床中心是上海收治新型冠状病毒肺炎患者的定点医疗机构之一，1月24日，上海市公共卫生临床中心在其官方微信上发文，把克力芝列为对新型冠状病毒潜在有效的药物。
The Shanghai Public Health Clinical Centre is one of the designated medical institutions in Shanghai to treat patients with coronavirus pneumonia. On January 24, the Shanghai Public Health Clinical Centre wrote in an official letter listing Kaletra as a potentially effective drug for the new coronavirus.
“我第一反应是很多人可能拿不到药。
"My first reaction was that many people might not get their medicine.
”国家治疗艾滋病的免费抗病毒药物是集中采购，有独立的药物供给渠道，并且限定在定点医院里，不允许买卖。
The country's free antiviral drugs for AIDS are centrally procured, have independent drug delivery channels and are restricted to designated hospitals and not allowed to be bought and sold.
“除非是吃这个药的艾滋感染者，不要说普通人，就连其他的医护人员都不一定知道。
"Unless it's an AIDS patient who takes the drug, don't say ordinary people, not even the rest of the medical community.
”2020年1月末的最后一个礼拜，武汉，除了每天以千人为单位新增的新冠肺炎患者，还有数倍于确诊人数的疑似患者在家隔离，封城后他们的出行犹如深陷泥泞，公交、出租都全部停摆，一旦出现不适多数情况只能步行前往医院。
In the last week of late January 2020, Wuhan, in addition to the thousands of new cases of pneumonia per day and the number of patients suspected to be several times more likely to be isolated at home, traveled like a muddy city, stopped all bus and rental traffic and walked to the hospital in case of discomfort.
月底有媒体爆出，因为家人被隔离，17岁的脑瘫患者在家中被活活饿死。
At the end of the month there were media outbursts that 17-year-old cerebral palsy was starving to death in his home because his family was isolated.
一些看到消息的患者开始在网上发声，“我们一家三口都感染上了，求求你救救我们。
Some of the patients who saw the news began to voice on the Internet, "We are all three infected, please help us.
”类似的求助信息涌进松鼠的微博，他意识到，自己“必须要做点什么了。
A similar message of help poured into squirrel microblogs, and he realized that he "had to do something."
”“一般的医院和药店根本没有，它的流通性很差，绝大部分人都拿不到。
"Ordinary hospitals and pharmacies are non-existent, so illiquid that the vast majority of people cannot reach them.
”松鼠在平台里的成员提议：“我们要不要把手里的闲置药捐助给有需要的人？”HIV感染者一次最多可以领取三个月的药，有可能因为个人原因，手上会富余一两个月的药，捐助闲置药品成为可能。
Squirrel members on the platform proposed, "Shall we donate unused drugs to people in need?" HIV patients could receive up to three months of medicine at a time, possibly for personal reasons, leaving a month or two of medicine on their hands and allowing them to donate unused drugs.
至于药品的质量也大可放心，国内提供的艾滋病一线药物包括克力芝都是免费的，没有获利的空间。
As for the quality of drugs can also be assured that the domestic AIDS first-line drugs, including Kaletra are free of charge, there is no profit space.
在如何捐助药品的方法上，松鼠想了很久，“并不是所有的医生都有克力芝的处方权，医院也没法把收到的药物直接交给患者。
Squirrel thought for a long time about how to donate medicine. "Not all doctors have the right to prescribe Kaletra, and hospitals can't give medicine directly to patients.
”经过与法律专业志愿者的商议，松鼠决定直接向新冠肺炎患者个人捐药，“由于国家提供的艾滋病治疗药物是免费的，在开始行动的时候我们就充分考虑过法律风险，民间自发捐助或临时借用药物是不违法的。
After consulting with legal volunteers, the squirrel decided to give medicine directly to individual patients with pneumonia. "Since the AIDS drugs provided by the state are free of charge, we have given full consideration to the legal risks at the start of the operation.
”从1月28日开始，松鼠开始通过自己的平台发布倡议，号召艾滋感染者把自己闲置的克力芝捐献给新冠肺炎患者，前提条件是“患者提供医疗凭据、病例确诊报告或者处方”。
Since January 28, squirrels have been using their own platforms to launch initiatives calling on people living with AIDS to donate their unused Kaletra to patients suffering from pneumonia, provided they provide "medical credentials, case diagnosis reports or a prescription."
28日晚上8点30分左右，第一位新冠患者联系松鼠哥。
At around 8: 30 p.m. on the 28th, the first new crowning patient contacted Brother Squirrel.
对方是武汉某三甲医院的医生。
The other is a doctor of Wuhan Sanjia Hospital.
他发来了医生证明以及检测结果。
He sent in the medical certificate and the test results.
第二天，向松鼠登记的求助者已经有30位。
The next day, there were already 30 registered applicants to squirrels.
“那个时候就开始忙了。
"It was a busy time.
”他把互助平台的志愿者组织起来，一部分负责审核，一部分负责药品，自己则做个中间人。
He organized volunteers on mutual aid platforms, one to audit, one to administer drugs and one to act as a middleman.
从1月29日开始，松鼠陆续收到从全国寄来的克力芝，有的一瓶，有的两瓶，最远的是一名来自台湾的艾滋感染者，一次性捐助了五瓶。
Since Jan. 29, squirrels have been receiving reports from across the country of Kaletra, some bottles, and as many as one HIV-infected person from Taiwan, donating five bottles at a time.
那几天他一个人要处理三十多个包裹，“几乎没有时间睡觉。
He had to deal with more than thirty packages on his own those days, and had little time to sleep.
”他要把收到的药物重新分装打包。
"He had to repackage the medicine he had received.
他算过：“根据卫健委给的方案，一人份的量是14天，一天两次、一次两粒，国内原厂的克力芝一瓶可供两名新冠患者。
He calculates: "According to the program given by the health care committee, the quantity of a person is 14 days, twice a day, two tablets at a time.
”拿到了药，新的困难摆在松鼠面前，怎么寄出去。
When he got the medicine, the squirrel faced new difficulties and how to post it.
由于武汉市内交通停摆，最早23号寄出去的药品，收件人不得不去分理部自提。
As a result of Wuhan city traffic stop, the earliest 23 sent out of the drug, the recipient had to go to the division.
他找到了唯一还在营业的顺丰快递。
He found the only Shunfeng express that was still open.
快递“一听是寄往武汉就摇头。
Express "A listen is sent to Wuhan shake his head.
”他坦言现在运力紧张，平日里分到各家快递公司的业务全涌到顺丰一家，除非是救灾物资才会发往武汉，他当即联系顺丰的客服，把寄送药品的事情跟后台沟通。
He admitted that the delivery capacity was strained and that the delivery companies that had been assigned to them had flooded into the city unless relief supplies were sent to Wuhan, where he immediately contacted Shunfeng's customer service to communicate with the backstage about the delivery of the drugs.
“后来他们同意以救灾物资的名义把快递发出去。
"Later they agreed to deliver the express in the name of relief supplies.
”另一个困难是，药物到了武汉，该怎么交到需要的人手中，尤其是那些尚处于医学隔离的患者。
Another difficulty is how to reach those in need, especially those still in medical isolation, when the drugs arrive in Wuhan.
这时候，蜘蛛出现了，他的微博叫“蜘蛛猴面包”。
At this time, spiders appeared, his microblog called "spider monkey bread."
“我不知道他是个vlog博主，也不知道他有那么多粉丝。
"I didn't know he was a vlog blogger or that he had so many fans.
”蜘蛛喜欢徒步也会拍视频，封城之后他开始拍起了“武汉封城日记”。
Spiders like to walk but also take videos, and after the closure of the city he began to photograph the "Wuhan Seal Diary."
对于松鼠的请求，蜘蛛没有立即答应。
The spider did not respond immediately to the squirrel's request.
“这是一件慎重的事，HIV病毒与新冠病毒不同，药物可以通用吗，这药物合法吗？”但第二天起床后，他答应了松鼠，因为松鼠给他的名单上，有武汉三甲医院的医生，不止这一个医生，在跟松鼠申请药物的名单上，医护人员达到四分之一。
But the next day, after getting up, he promised to squirrel, because the squirrel had given him a list of doctors from Wuhan Sanjia Hospital, more than one in four of the doctors on the list of people who applied to squirrels for medicine.
2月1日早晨，第一批八人份的药品寄到了他位于光谷的家中，他开车从武昌出发，经过汉口，然后再转到汉阳。
On the morning of February 1, the first batch of eight medicines arrived at his home in Guangya. He drove from Wuchang to Hankou and then to Hanyang.
一路上路边的店铺大门紧闭，流浪动物不时游荡在马路上，还有消毒药剂的烟雾，一副现实版的切尔诺贝利。
Along the way, the store doors are closed, stray animals wander the streets from time to time, smoke from disinfectant, a realistic version of Chernobyl.
他把每天送药的视频拍成vlog，有观众提醒他不要和患者近距离接触，他就把药放在一个指定地点，远远地等待对方来取。
He made a vlog of the daily delivery and was warned not to get close to the patient, so he put the medicine in a designated place and waited for it to come from afar.
互助平台上的志愿者分成两拨，一拨负责审核申请药物的患者，另一拨负责筹集药物，松鼠则是中转站。
Volunteers on the platform split into two groups, one to screen patients applying for drugs and the other to raise drugs, with squirrels serving as transit points.
当时可能一天要发二三十个包裹，“如果没有线上和线下志愿者的协助，仅靠我的力量根本不可能办到，要感谢志愿者。
"Without the help of volunteers online and offline, I couldn't have done it all by myself, thanks to volunteers.
”“只是想大家一起活下去”由于国内艾滋患者服用克力芝的本来就不多，向国内艾滋感染者征集的药物不到两天就发完了，毕竟是来自艾滋感染者的闲置药物，不可能有太多剩余。
"Just want us to live together." With only a handful of people living with AIDS in China already taking Kaletra, the drug collection from people living with HIV in the country is running out in less than two days.
但是申请药物的名单已经排到80多号，得想办法弄到新药。
But the list of drug applications is over 80, and we have to figure out how to get a new drug.
他把目光转向了印度。
He turned his eyes to India.
同样是人口大国，印度的抗病毒药物需求近十年来非常旺盛。
Also a populous nation, India's demand for antiviral drugs has boomed over the past decade.
几经辗转托朋友从印度筹集了300多盒克力芝后，松鼠又回到微博上发帖，寻找可以将这批药物带回国内的人，一群准备从印度回国的驴友帮了忙，先期带回了一批。
After shuttling friends to collect more than 300 boxes of Kaletra cheese from India, squirrels returned to post on microblogs looking for someone to bring home the medicine, and a group of donkey friends returning from India helped with a shipment.
但通道马上就断了，随着疫情发展的形势愈发严重，各国都关闭了直飞中国大陆城市的航班。
But the passage was cut short, and as the epidemic got worse, countries closed their flights directly to Chinese cities.
他又把目标锁定到当时还未被限制航班的香港。
He also targeted Hong Kong, where flights were not restricted at the time.
2月7日，第一批从印度运来的克力芝到达香港，麻烦跟着就来了，香港宣布从2月3号开始封关，但一家名为“希望小组”的公益组织帮助了松鼠哥，“他们也是给被感染的医护人员提供药物的。
When the first batch of Kaletra arrived in Hong Kong on February 7 from India, trouble set in, and Hong Kong announced that it would close on February 3, but Brother Squirrel was helped by a charity called Hope Group, which also supplies medicines to infected paramedics.
”小组帮松鼠用人力带回了100多份药物，随后，香港的航运也停掉了。
The team brought back more than 100 medicines by hand to squirrels, and shipping in Hong Kong then stopped.
2月9日，松鼠终于拿到了第一批印度版克力芝。
On February 9, squirrels finally got their first Indian version of Kaletra.
只要有新的好友申请，松鼠第一时间就会发过去，“地址、凭证给我，避免恐慌性的描述。
As long as there is a new friend application, the squirrel will send the first time, "address, voucher to me, avoid panic description.
”再把对方提交的资料转给负责审核的志愿者。
The information was then passed on to the volunteers in charge of the review.
他说最初向自己求助的患者，大约四分之一都是被感染的医护人员。
About a quarter of the patients who first turned to themselves for help were infected health-care workers, he said.
普通患者，每人只能领一份药，但对于医务人员，松鼠最多提供两份药，这样他们可以匀给其他被感染的同事。
Ordinary patients can only get one pill each, but for medical staff, squirrels can give up to two doses so they can spare other infected colleagues.
在有些人看来，拿没有经过严密医学验证的抗病毒药物治疗新冠肺炎患者是需要承担医疗和伦理风险的。
For some, treating patients with Newcrown Pneumonia with antiviral drugs that have not been medically proven entails medical and ethical risks.
“不考虑副作用吗”的问题出现得最多，也有人反驳“副作用和活命，你选哪个？”松鼠还知道有个别患者即便拿到药也不敢吃，“尤其是他们知道这个药是治疗艾滋病的以后。
The squirrel also knew that individual patients were afraid to take the medicine even if they got it, especially if they knew it was for later treatment of AIDS.
”对于克力芝治疗新冠肺炎的有效性，“具体我没有统计过，总体上70%是有的，主要是早期的轻症患者。
"I don't know exactly how effective Kaletra is in treating pneumonia," he said. "Overall, 70 percent of cases are there, mainly early mild cases.
”一开始找到松鼠的人都抱着试试看的心态，前来求助的新冠肺炎患者大部分都走投无路，“听说有用”。
Those who first found the squirrel tried, and most of the new crowns who came for help were desperate and "heard it works."
治愈的患者多了，求助的人也越来越多。
More patients are being cured and more people are turning to for help.
“后来有些人申请了可拿不到药，就去后台举报，我的微信号就被封了。
"Later, when someone applied for medicine and couldn't get it, they went backstage and reported it, and my microphone was blocked.
”“对我的攻击和质疑一直没有停止过。
"" The attacks on and questioning of me have not ceased.
”他举例说，有人在网上散布谣言，说提供的药物是要掏钱购买，在那段时间，确实有不法商贩在网上叫卖克力芝，一度达到4000元一瓶。
He cites examples of people who spread rumors on the Internet that drugs were provided for out of pocket money, and during that time, illegal traders did sell Kaletra online, reaching a bottle of 4,000 yuan at one time.
愤怒的松鼠找到谣言的传播者对质，“我不管你从哪里听到的，但凡你知道造谣者的信息，请你告诉我，我一定会走司法程序。
The angry squirrel confronts the man who spread the rumor. "I don't care where you hear it, but if you know anything about the rumor-mongers, please tell me that I will follow the judicial procedure.
”但这些无奈的遭遇最终被他一句带过，“只是希望大家一起活下来，生命是很宝贵的”。
But these helpless experiences were finally brought by him, "just hope that we live together, life is very precious."
第一批抵达的印度药只能略微缓解缺药的情况，“一共发了两百二十多份出去。
The first batch of Indian drugs arrived only slightly to alleviate the shortage. "More than 220 copies were sent out.
”松鼠再次向印度的朋友求助。
Again, the squirrel asked his Indian friend for help.
本来药物在2月10日就到达国内，这次被海关扣住了。
The drugs had arrived in the country on February 10 and were seized by customs.
“海关的人说需要药品进口许可才能放行，目前我得先去找受捐单位(医院)，然后拿着医院开出来的接收材料，再去找省药监局开药品进口许可，他们才可能给我放行。
"The customs people say they need a license to import drugs, and now I have to go to the donation unit (the hospital) and get the materials from the hospital and ask the provincial drug watchdog for permission to import the drugs before they can release me.
”规则就是规则，即便海关的工作人员知道松鼠所送出的是救命药，然而一次性通关超过三百份，“我其实也能理解他们，他们也给我想了很多办法”。
Even though customs officials knew squirrels were handing out life-saving drugs, there were more than 300 one-off customs clearances. "I can understand them, and they've given me a lot of ideas."
问题最后还是卡在印度的药商那里，“他们处理文件的速度太慢了。
The problem ended up with Indian drug makers, who were too slow to process documents.
”自己从艾滋感染者那里筹集到的已是极限了，他担心“要不了多久就会开始缺药，在工厂全功率生产以前，谁都很难再弄到。
Having raised the limits of what he has been able to raise from people living with AIDS, he worries that "it will not be long before we start to run out of drugs, and no one will be able to get them again until full plant capacity is produced."
”印度药看起来是最后的希望，但这批药品能否顺利抵达武汉仍是未知数。
Indian medicine appears to be the last hope, but whether the medicine will make it to Wuhan is uncertain.
他将微博的签名改成了：“各位别再找我要克力芝了”。
He changed his signature to read: "Don't ask me for Kaletra anymore."
都是感染者2017年开始互助平台时，就有很多感染者向松鼠求助，其中一些和药物有关，一些和生活有关。
When infected people began to help each other platform in 2017, a lot of infected people asked squirrels for help, some related to drugs, some related to life.
“有些人因为这个（HIV感染者）身份的变化，会因为逃避而改变自己的人生方向。
"Some people, because of this change in status, will change the direction of their lives because of avoidance.
”而这次新冠肺炎的患者，也会有类似的感受，“他们害怕自己传染给别人，也害怕自己得不到救治。
People with the new crown pneumonia have a similar feeling: "They are afraid of infecting others and of not getting treatment."
”就像当初发起互助平台的心情一样，松鼠坦言，“我们也希望在这个层面上真正帮到别人。
Just as it was with the launch of the Mutual Aid Platform, the squirrel confessed, "We also want to really help others on this level.
”2月19日，松鼠又收到了一批网友捐助的100盒克力芝(60粒版)，这意味着至少150人可以拿到药了。
On February 19, squirrels received another 100 boxes of Kaletra (60 tablets) donated by netizens, meaning that at least 150 people could get the medicine.
不过疫情的好转速度超过了大众的预测，尤其是在2月末，湖北省以外的地区新发病人已经归零。
However, the rate of improvement exceeded popular expectations, especially in late February, when new cases outside Hubei province fell to zero.
“目前手里的药在联系医院接受捐赠，接下来的收尾工作完成以后，我们就要继续回归HIV感染者的药物援助活动了。
"Now that the drugs are in contact with the hospital for donation, we are going to have to go back to drug assistance activities for people living with HIV after the next close-up.
”这让他有种如释重负的感觉。
It gave him a feeling of relief.
这次帮助新冠肺炎患者，他给自己定下的目标是500人。
This time around, he has set himself a target of 500.
“去印度筹集药物的所有花费都是我们平台的志愿者众筹的。
"All the costs of going to India to raise drugs were raised by our platform volunteers.
”统一的行动，从捐药到分发，每一个环节使得参与者凝聚得更紧密。
Concerted action, from drug donation to distribution, brings participants closer together.
同样因为这场救援，变化正在发生，虽然这其间发生了一些误解，但不同群体间的隔阂也在逐渐瓦解。
Also as a result of the rescue, change is taking place, and while there has been some misunderstanding, the gulf between different groups is breaking down.
两位有医学背景的志愿者在网上联系松鼠并加入他的审核团队。
Two volunteers with a medical background contacted squirrels online and joined his audit team.
“他们不是艾滋感染者。
"They're not infected with AIDS.
我们也不再讨论你是不是艾滋感染者。
We're not talking about whether you're infected or not.
”后续捐助捐赠的药物当中，也不再全部来自于艾滋感染者，一些能在海外能买到药的普通人也在给他捐药。
The bulk of the drugs donated by follow-up donors are no longer from people infected with the AIDS virus, and ordinary people who can buy drugs overseas are giving him drugs.
“别人怎么看我是我决定不了的，但我怎么对待别人是我能够决定的。
"I can't decide what other people think of me, but I can make up my mind what to do with others.
”松鼠在发出微博的时候，就希望通过自己的行动改变大众对于艾滋群体的偏见。
Squirrels, when tweeting, hope to change public prejudice against the AIDS community by their own actions.
“如果能够扭转这个群体的形象和认可度，当然好。
"If you can change the image and recognition of this group, of course.
如果不能，我们也不强求。
If not, we will not impose it.
我们其实并没有考虑自己的形象和口碑，就是想救一个人，尽一份力。
In fact, we do not consider their image and word of mouth, is to save a person, to do their part.
”对于未来，不管是艾滋感染者，还是新冠感染者，又或是面对某一种潜在的传染病时，松鼠说，“悲观、恐惧是没有帮助的。
"Pessimism and fear are not helpful for the future," says squirrels, whether infected with AIDS, newly infected with the crown, or facing a potential infectious disease.
当然歧视是最不应该的。
Of course, discrimination is the last thing to do.
你要做的就是屏蔽掉外面的负面信息，去做好自己该做的事情。
All you have to do is screen out the negative information and do your job.
”文章和图片版权归联合国艾滋病规划署所有更多相关文章阅读给艾滋感染者送药的武汉外地人新冠病毒对1014名HIV感染者的影响调查报告长按二维码关注GS乐点微信号：gayspot投稿邮箱：gayspot_edit@163.com合作QQ:1531514762。
The report looked at the impact of the new crown virus on 1,014 people living with HIV in two dimensions: gayspot mailbox: gayspot _ edit @ 163.com in collaboration with QQ: 1531514762.
GS乐点。
GS Music Point.
原创不易，多谢小主打赏。
Original not easy, thank you very much.
。
.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
原创不易，多谢小主打赏。
Original not easy, thank you very much.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
救命药：HIV感染者捐助新冠感染者。
Life-saving drugs: People living with HIV donate to new infections.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "GS乐点";。
Var nickname = & quot; GS & quot;;
var msg_title = "救命药：HIV感染者捐助新冠感染者";。
var msg _ title = & quot; life-saving: HIV infection with AT & quot; & quot;.
var msg_desc = "只是想大家一起活下去";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; just wanted everyone to live with & quot;;
title: '给艾滋感染者送药的武汉外地人',。
at & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;
subject_name: 'GS乐点',。
subject _ name: & apos; GS & amp; apos;;
title: '新冠病毒对1014名HIV感染者的影响调查报告',。
& quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: 'GS乐点',。
subject _ name: & apos; GS & amp; apos;;
var title ="GS乐点";。
Var title = & quot; GS & quot;;
