此时此刻，他们在日本，他们在韩国。
At this moment, they are in Japan, they are in Korea.
张霞。
Zhang Xia.
商业人物                      。
Business people.
商业人物。
Business people.
定义中国商业力量。
Defining China's commercial power.
作者：张霞来源：商业人物（ID：biz-leaders)随着新冠肺炎疫情在全球蔓延，韩国和日本已经成为疫情高发地区。
South Korea and Japan have become high-incidence areas as the global outbreak of new crown pneumonia spreads.
据韩国卫生部门消息，截至当地时间3月3日16时，韩国感染者总数升至5186人。
As of 16: 00 local time on March 3, the total number of infected South Koreans rose to 5,186, according to South Korean health authorities.
日本形势同样不容乐观，截至当地时间3日下午六点半，已有985例确诊病例。
The situation in Japan is no better, with 985 confirmed cases as of 6: 30 pm local time.
当地疫情究竟如何？“商业人物”与4位分别生活在韩国和日本的朋友，进行了对话。
What is the local epidemic? Business figures are talking to four friends who live in South Korea and Japan, respectively.
蛋黄酱 | 日本东京01.一开始是我担心国内的父母，现在是父母担心我我是2010年前往日本就读研究生的，13年毕业后留在了东京。
TOKYO, JAPAN 01. First, I was worried about my parents at home. Now my parents are worried about me.
我挺喜欢东京的生活，购物很方便。
I quite like life in Tokyo. Shopping is very convenient.
平常经常有国内的朋友，要我帮她们代购。
Usually have domestic friend, want me to help them buy on their behalf.
1月22号左右，国内疫情开始爆发之后，我的微信俨然成了“代购专线”，每天大约有一二十个人问我，能不能帮忙寄点口罩。
Around January 22, after the outbreak of the epidemic in China, my message became a "surrogate line," with about a dozen people asking me every day if I could send some masks.
这给我造成了很大的困扰。
This has caused me a lot of problems.
因为1月25左右，日本就很难买到口罩了，我住的地方，药妆店每天清晨就开始排长队了。
It's hard for Japan to get a mask around January 25, and the dresser shop is queuing up every morning where I live.
排队的人大都和我一样，是往国内寄的。
Most of the people in the queue, like me, were sent to China.
前前后后，我一共买了九百个口罩，寄给亲友。
Before and after, I bought a total of 900 masks and sent them to friends and relatives.
其中最后五盒，跑了四家店才买到，价钱比之前翻了一倍。
The last five boxes, which took four stores to buy, doubled the price.
我留了一盒，另外四盒寄给了远在江苏徐州的父母。
I left one box and sent the other four to my parents in Xuzhou, Jiangsu Province.
货架上口罩都已销售一空那个时候我很担心我的父母。
I was worried about my parents when I ran out of masks on the shelves.
父母做点小生意，人际往来比较多。
Parents do small businesses, more people contact.
他们反过来担忧我，是从2月19号开始的，当天有443名乘客从停泊在横滨港的“钻石公主”号邮轮下船。
They worried about me in turn, starting on February 19th, when 443 passengers disembarked from the vessel, Princess Diamond, which docked in Yokohama.
他们着急的不得了，说是日本政府不懂其中的厉害，在国内，他们听到过不少接触十几秒就感染的新闻。
They were in a great hurry, saying the Japanese government did not understand the severity of the problem, in China, they have heard a lot of contact with a dozen seconds of infection news.
一开始，我并不怎么引以为然。
At first, I didn't think much of it.
总体上我感觉日本还是较为安全的。
Overall, I feel that Japan is still relatively safe.
2月24号的时候，日本的确诊病例是838人，其中“钻石公主”号里就691人，剩下的133人中还包括一些中国游客。
On Feb. 24, there were 838 confirmed cases in Japan, including 691 from the Princess Diamond and 133 from China.
总不能因为这几十个感染者就停止生活运转了。
Dozens of infected people can't stop living their lives.
当时，我在日本接收到的信息是，勤洗手就能防患，患病者以老年人居多。
At the time, the message I received in Japan was that frequent hand washing could prevent disease, with the elderly predominating among the sick.
我以为国内之所以这么严重，是因为没有戴口罩的习惯。
I think the reason why the country is so serious is because there is no habit of wearing masks.
日本因为春天防花粉过敏，几乎都是人人戴口罩的，这方面我的安全感比较足。
Japanese pollen allergies because of spring, almost everyone wearing masks, I feel more secure in this regard.
至于患病之后有什么后果，我也不清楚。
As for the consequences of the illness, I don't know.
一开始，那一盒口罩我一直没舍得用，想等感染后防止传染给别人再用。
At first, I never used that box of masks. I wanted to prevent the infection from infecting others.
我一直以为日本的医疗水平是不错的，像传染病床位日本全国只有1800张这样的新闻，我反而是从国内的网站看到的。
I always thought the Japanese medical standards were good, like the infectious disease bed in Japan only 1800 such news, I actually saw from the domestic website.
看到后，有些恐慌，但更多的是听天由命吧，我和朋友开玩笑说，感染的话希望能早感染，这样医疗资源还充足，救治的希望也大。
Seeing this, there was some panic, but it was more a matter of fate, I joked with my friends, hoping for an early infection, so that medical resources would be adequate and hope for treatment would be high.
我隔壁工位的同事，家住神奈川县北部的相模原，她居住的社区有人感染了。
My co-worker next door, who lives in Xiangmoyuan, north of Kanagawa Prefecture, lives in an infected community.
在茶歇的时候，同事们会议论这些，但并没有人太当回事儿。
During the tea break, colleagues talk about these things, but no one takes them seriously.
我在一家互联网公司上班，和国内情况类似，也差不多是996。
I work for an Internet company. It's similar to the situation in China, and it's about 996.
东京生存压力挺大，上班族都很勤勉，不敢有丝毫懈怠，我之前生病了很少请假。
Tokyo survival pressure is quite big, office workers are very diligent, afraid of the slightest slack, I was sick before rarely ask for leave.
曾有朋友建议我，请假躲避疫情，我觉得有点不可思议。
I had a friend who advised me to take time off from the epidemic, and I found it a little weird.
日本人之间的距离感比较强，平常不大扎堆，午餐都是各吃各的，人和人也算保持着安全距离，应该没事，每天我都用这些话给自己打气。
The distance between the Japanese people is strong, usually not big pile up, lunch is eat their own, people and people also maintain a safe distance, should be OK, every day I use these words to cheer myself up.
东京傍晚的街头，每天依旧有不少人外出变化也是有的，2月29号的时候，公司采取了一些措施，把内部培训会和招聘会都取消了。
On the evening of February 29, the company took steps to cancel both in-house training sessions and job fairs.
客户交流会也推迟了。
Customer meetings were also postponed.
从3月1号起，我开始在家办公了，但不是硬性规定。
From March 1, I started working from home, but it wasn't mandatory.
我们公司本来就推行在宅，t&l（管理部门）得身先士卒。
Our company used to be at home, and T & amp; P has had to take the lead.
其它部门还是要照常上下班。
Other departments still have to work as usual.
小田 | 日本东京02.很悲观，用厨房纸巾制作了一些简易口罩我叫小田，1992年生人，2013年从中央财经大学毕业后到日本留学，目前在东京一家国际税务所上班。
Toyoda & amp; Co., Ltd., Japan. Pessimistic about using kitchen towels to make some simple respirators. My name is Oda. I was born in 1992, and studied in Japan after graduating from the Central Economic and Financial University in 2013.
受国内影响，1月中旬以后，我便时刻关注着国内的局势和亲戚朋友的状况。
Under domestic influence, I have been following the situation in the country and the situation of relatives and friends since mid-January.
对新冠肺炎的防控，我认为自己比大多数的日本人，都要专业。
As for the prevention and control of new crown pneumonia, I think I am more professional than most Japanese.
2月16日，日本进行了11场马拉松，得知这个消息之后，我非常愤怒，当时已经有几百个确诊者了呀！可当我和日本朋友讨论这一话题时，他们竟然告诉我，参赛者大多都戴口罩了。
I was outraged to learn that Japan ran 11 marathons on February 16, when there were hundreds of confirmed patients, but when I discussed the topic with my Japanese friends, they told me that most of the contestants were wearing masks.
我认为有点鸡同鸭讲。
I think a little chicken talk.
我身边的日本朋友主要分两派：一派尽管很担心，但是又没有什么办法，只能从自己做起，戴好口罩、注意消毒；另一派比较乐天，觉得此次肺炎无异于日本本土的インフルエンザ(流行性感冒），虽然可以致死，大多是体弱多病的老年和幼儿，离自己比较遥远。
The Japanese friends around me are divided into two groups: one is worried, but there is no way to do anything but wear masks and pasteurize themselves. The other is more happy that the pneumonia is like a Japanese-born Japanese turning to an elderly and young man in an ailing condition, far away from himself.
即使感染，也没啥事儿。
Even if it's infected, it's okay.
对于日本的疫情，我有点悲观主义吧。
I'm a little pessimistic about the epidemic in Japan.
从2月上旬左右开始，日本已经基本买不到口罩。
Japan has had few face masks since around the beginning of February.
各大超市早上开门的时候多少会放出一点。
Supermarkets give out more or less when they open their doors in the morning.
一般10:00营业，9点左右就已经排起来长队了。
It's usually open at 10: 00 and there's a long queue around 9: 00.
排队的人多为老年人和家庭妇女。
The majority of queues were for elderly and housewives.
普通单身上班族因为没有时间，是买不到口罩的。
The average single worker can't buy a mask because he doesn't have time.
酒精类消毒产品，偶尔可以碰到。
Alcoholic disinfection products, occasionally touch.
我个人的防护，除了勤洗手、戴口罩、放假宅在家，也没什么办法。
My personal protection, except frequent hand washing, wearing masks, holiday homes, there is no way.
每天照样要挤地铁去上班。
Squeeze the subway to work every day.
网络上有一段东京警视厅教大家用厨房纸巾制作简易口罩的视频，我跟着学了，制作了一些，以备不时之需。
I followed a video from the Tokyo Metropolitan Police Department showing people how to make improvised masks with kitchen towels, and I made some for a rainy day.
东京的地铁站，每天还是有不少人通勤在此之前，我一直挺信任日本的国家安全体系的，现在我呈失望状态。
Before the subway station in Tokyo, where many people commute every day, I trusted Japan's national security system, and now I'm disappointed.
我这边得到的消息是，日本的轻症患者住院两天后就可以返回家，自行治疗。
The news from my side is that people with mild cases in Japan can return home after two days of hospital treatment.
另外，按照日本的《传染病法》二级标准，政府根本就没有权力限制患者的行动。
Furthermore, according to the Secondary Standards of the Infectious Diseases Act of Japan, the Government has no power whatsoever to restrict the movement of patients.
基本上每天我都是恐慌的，上下班路上，听到有人咳嗽或者清理嗓子，我就忍不住脑补，会不会是病毒携带者。
Basically every day I panic, on the way to and from work, hear someone cough or clear my throat, I can not help but brain tonic, can be a carrier of the virus.
觉得自己就像没带救生圈，便掉进深海里。
Feeling like I didn't have a life buoy, I fell into the sea.
如果有机会，我想回国内。
If I get the chance, I want to go home.
曹芳 | 韩国首尔03.中韩两国之间存在一些误解我目前在首尔大读博士课程，老公是韩国人，我平常和韩国人接触得很多。
There are some misunderstandings between China and South Korea. I am currently pursuing a PhD course in Seoul. My husband is a Korean.
国内的消息可能有些滞后，其实面对这次疫情，韩国一直很紧张的。
The news at home may be lagging behind, in fact, South Korea has been very tense in the face of the epidemic.
我有个留学生朋友是2月初从巴厘岛旅行返回韩国的，有一些流鼻涕、打喷嚏的症状，上报之后就被要求在家隔离了14天，政府给配备了食物、矿泉水等物资。
A friend of mine who returned to South Korea in early February from Bali showed signs of runny noses and sneezes and was told to stay at home for 14 days with food, mineral water and other supplies.
首尔大学的隔离宿舍，学校将一栋楼拿出来给中国留学生隔离用我个人的话，从2月中旬就不出门了，和朋友的约会也都取消了。
Isolated dormitory at Seoul University, the school has taken a building away from Chinese students. In my own words, I have not been out since mid-February, and my dates with friends have all been canceled.
基本就是呆在宿舍。
Basically staying in the dorm.
最近几天我网购的箱子，已经堆满了半个阳台，储备了几袋大米，几十个方便米饭，好几箱饮用水，冰箱里塞满了速冻饺子。
The boxes I bought online in recent days are already half full of balconies, stocked with bags of rice, dozens of ready-to-use rice, several boxes of drinking water, and frozen dumplings stuffed with frozen dumplings.
朋友过来拜访，带来的礼物也是米饭，这边的华人基本都采取了类似的防护措施，尽量不外出。
Friends come to visit, the gift is also rice, the Chinese here have basically taken similar protective measures, try not to go out.
冰箱囤积的食物我自己也做生意，经营着一家汉语培训公司，主要是针对韩国的企业、使馆、学校等进行汉语教学，三星、SK电讯等都是公司的客户。
I also run a Chinese language training company, mainly for Korean enterprises, embassies, schools and so on Chinese teaching, Samsung, SK telecommunications are the company's customers.
之前他们都是倾向实地教学的，2月20号之后，线下培训都改为线上授课了。
Before they were inclined to teach in the field, after Feb. 20, offline training was switched to online instruction.
目前SK电讯发现了一例疑似患者，整个总公司建筑都被封锁了，这在韩国电讯业是首次。
Now SK Telecom has found a suspected patient, and the entire head office building has been sealed off for the first time in South Korea's telecommunications industry.
发现疑似病例后，韩国SK电讯封楼了2 月24号的时候，首尔大学就在考虑这一学期要不要进行网络授课了，当时有不少华人留学生提出休学申请。
When South Korea's SK Telecom closed its doors on Feb. 24 after a suspected case was discovered, Seoul University was considering whether to offer online classes for the semester, when many Chinese students applied for a suspension.
2月26号，首尔大学建国以来第一次取消了毕业典礼，我的好多学姐只能借衣服在校门口拍照留念。
February 26, Seoul University since the founding of the first graduation ceremony, many of my sister students can only borrow clothes to take photos in front of the school.
首尔大学隔离用的是学生宿舍，一人使用两人间，条件不错。
Seoul University is separated by student dormitories, a single use of two rooms, in good conditions.
学校内疫情防控的宣传也很到位，不少角落拉上了横幅，设有宣传牌。
School disease prevention and control publicity is also in place, many corners put up banners, posters.
首尔大学校园里的横幅，上面写着“中国加油，武汉加油”疫情爆发那天起，韩国政府会给每个人的手机发警报信息，呼吁老弱者尽量不要出门，建议不要游行聚会。
A banner on the campus of Seoul University said, "Come to China, Wuhan Come on." From the day of the outbreak, the South Korean government will send warning messages to everyone's mobile phones, appealing to the old and weak not to go out and advising against parades.
疫情通报首尔市政府也每天都在发送。
The Seoul city government also sends out daily information about the outbreak.
有一种说法是，韩国政府没有能力，其实韩国已经陆续有新措施出台，能看到政府非常努力。
One theory is that the South Korean government does not have the capacity, in fact, South Korea has been a series of new measures to see the Government very hard.
小吴 | 韩国京畿道04.担心集会有可能还会举行防范意识方面，我是很强的，从二月初家里就储备好了很多口罩。
I was very worried about the possibility that the assembly might also hold a preventive awareness. I had a large stockpile of face masks at home since early February.
我的爸爸开公司，我早早就提醒他，少见客户了。
My father started a company, and I reminded him early that it was a rare client.
妈妈在首尔的江南区有个餐厅，这些天客人都减半了，消毒和防护方面妈妈也很注意。
Mom has a restaurant in the south of Seoul. Guests have been cut in half these days. Mother is very careful about disinfection and protection.
京畿道的街头上几乎没有行人韩国的紧张情绪其实出现得非常早。
There are few pedestrians on the streets of Gyeonggi Province. The tension in South Korea is actually very early.
在1月下旬，韩国刚刚两三例疫情的时候，就有口罩抢购潮了。
In late January, just two or three cases of the disease in South Korea, there was a rush to buy masks.
街上戴口罩的挺多，公共设施里也都设置了免洗消毒液。
There are a lot of masks on the streets, and disinfectants have been set up in public facilities.
韩国政府还紧急出台暴利囤积口罩的打击措施。
South Korea's government is also pressing ahead with a crackdown on windfall mask hoarding.
防范意识松懈是因为，后来，韩国国内确诊病例将近一个月的时间里都处于缓慢增长的状态。
The catharsis was due to the slow increase in confirmed cases in South Korea for almost a month.
首尔附近的大型超市，市民早上4点排队买口罩大邱和庆尚北道大暴发之后，我们又开始害怕了。
At a large supermarket near Seoul, people lined up at 4 a.m. to buy masks Daegu and Gyeongshan North Province, and we started to get scared again.
2 月22日，很多人在首尔进行了集会，大部分国民是非常不满的。
On February 22, many people gathered in Seoul, most of them unhappy.
目前政府已经采取了许多的应对措施，新天地耶稣教的人员名单也弄清楚了，要对他们严格进行身体检查；很多地方也都关闭了新天地教的相关设施；光化门广场、首尔广场那边也不允许集会了，设置了很多宣传牌子。
The government has taken a number of measures to deal with the problem, and the list of Jesuits in Xintiandi has been made clear that they should be given strict medical check-ups. Many places have also closed down the facilities of Xintiandi Church.
但我有点担心，4月15日，就是国会选举了，集会有可能还会举行。
But I'm a little worried that on April 15th, with the congressional elections, the rally will probably take place again.
*文中图片全部为受访者提供推荐阅读严正声明：“商业人物”所有原创文章，转载均须获授权。
* All photos in this article are recommended for the interviewee. All original articles and reprints of "business people" must be authorized.
一切形式非法转载，包括但不限于盗转、未获“商业人物”授权通过第三方转载行为，均属侵权行为，“商业人物”将公布“黑名单”并追究法律责任。
All forms of illegal reproduction, including, but not limited to, theft and unauthorized reprinting by a third party without the authorization of a "business person," who will publish the "blacklist" and will be held liable.
“商业人物”只愿与尊重知识产权的机构合作。
"Business people" are willing to cooperate only with institutions that respect intellectual property rights.
投稿、约访、合作，联系邮箱：bizleaders@qq.com添加微信biz-leader，获转载授权或邀您加入商友群微信名：商业人物微信ID：biz-leaders1.长按右侧二维码即可关注。
Subscriptions, interviews, collaborations, contact mailboxes: bizleaders @ qq.com, get permission to reprint, or invite you to join the microphone group of business people: micro-ID: biz-leaders1. Click on the two-dimensional code on the right.
2.期待您置顶与星标。
2. Expect you to place your top and star.
欢迎分享与评论，欢迎通过留言或私信方式给我们提供选题线索。
Welcome to share and comment, welcome to leave a message or private letter to us to provide clues to the topic.
3.点击“阅读原文”，看商业人物官网，获取更多精彩内容。
3. Click on "Read the original text" to see the official website of business people, to get more wonderful content.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
此时此刻，他们在日本，他们在韩国。
At this moment, they are in Japan, they are in Korea.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "商业人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
var msg_title = "此时此刻，他们在日本，他们在韩国";。
var msg _ title = & quot; at the moment, they are in Japan, and they are at RK & quot;; at the moment.
var msg_desc = "就像没带救生圈，便掉进深海里。
var msg _ desc = & quot; like not having a life buoy, fell into the sea.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '武汉志愿者司机的一个月：3位亲人去世，依旧在坚持',。
A month with Wuhan volunteer driver: Three relatives who died at S & P's service.
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '武汉人在意大利：戴口罩有被打的风险',。
Wuhan is in Italy: AT RISK & amp; APOS AT RISK WITH Mask.
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '航空公司自救30天',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & &; & &; & & &;; & &; & & &;; & &; & & &;; &; &; & &; & &; &; & &; & &; & & &;.
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="商业人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
