新冠疫情将推进医药行业哪些发展变革？。
What development changes will the new crown epidemic promote in the pharmaceutical industry?
李湛 等。
Mr. Li et al.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
短期而言，与疫情相关的OTC中药、家用和医用设备耗材以及潜在特效药的临床进展会加快发展；长期来看，医药行业可能受疫情催化迎来新的变革，财政对于公共卫生领域的投入力度可能加大文/李湛 刘亚洲编辑/郝洲无论是病原体本身、疾病的临床表现还是疫情特点，甚至政府、企业和公众的应对方案，此次武汉新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情与2003年的SARS疫情均有一定相似性。
In the short term, clinical advances in OTC medicines, household and medical equipment consumables, and potential specific medicines associated with the epidemic will accelerate. In the long term, the pharmaceutical industry may be catalyzed by the epidemic.
SARS和2019-nCoV同属于冠状病毒β属，具有空气传播和人传人的特点，都在临床引起非常严重的呼吸系统疾病，后来也均发展成为举国抗击的严重疫情，并最终对宏观经济造成了一定的负面影响。
SARS and 2019-nCoV, both of which belong to the coronavirus genus, have the characteristics of air transmission and human-to-human transmission. They both cause very serious respiratory diseases in the clinic.
SARS病例最早在2002年11月出现于广东，但前期疫情并未被重视，直至2003年3月疫情蔓延至北京、WHO发布全球警报，SARS疫情才真正进入公众视野。
SARS cases first appeared in Guangdong in November 2002, but the epidemic was not noticed until March 2003, when the epidemic spread to Beijing and the World Health Organization issued a global alert.
随着疫情的爆发，政府于2003年4月中下旬开始采取了多项紧急措施，最终疫情自5月中下旬开始逐渐消退。
With the outbreak of the outbreak, the Government began to take a number of emergency measures in late April 2003 and the outbreak eventually began to subside in late May.
现有的事实表明，2019年底，武汉市开始出现新型冠状病毒肺炎病例，2020年1月20日左右疫情开始暴发并进入公众视野。
The available facts indicate that by the end of 2019, a new case of coronavirus pneumonia will begin to appear in Wuhan city, and the outbreak will begin to come into public view around January 20, 2020.
各级政府自1月下旬起开始采取多项紧急措施，目前新冠肺炎疫情的拐点正逐渐出现。
Since late January, governments at all levels have taken a number of emergency measures, and now the inflection point of the new crown pneumonia epidemic is gradually emerging.
图表1新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情与过去几次疫情的对比资料来源：公开信息，数据截至2020.2.201. 2003-SARS疫情回顾与2019-nCoV疫情研判1.1.SARS对于医药生物行业发展的影响在SARS疫情的全面爆发阶段(2003年4月-5月)，我国医药制造业主营业务收入增速出现一定提高，其中2003年5月的累计增速达到22%，为2002-2004年间的最高峰。
Figure 1 Comparison of the New Coronavirus Pneumonia with Past Outbreaks Source: Open Information, Data Up to 2020.2.201.2003-SARS Epidemic Review and 2019-nCoV Epidemic Assessment 1.1.SARS Impact on the Development of the Pharmaceutical Biology Sector
但疫情结束之后，行业增速逐渐回归并趋于稳定。
But after the epidemic, the industry growth rate gradually return and tend to stabilize.
图表2 SARS期间中国医药制造业增速略有提高资料来源：Wind在SARS疫情爆发的2003年，国内医药行业内部以中药、生物制品、化学原料药和化学制剂为主。
Source: Wind In 2003, when the SARS epidemic broke out, the domestic pharmaceutical industry was dominated by traditional Chinese medicines, biological products, chemical raw materials and chemicals.
以资本市场为例，彼时这四个子行业的市值分别占医药行业总市值的32%、21%、15%和7%，而医疗器械、医疗服务等领域鲜有上市公司；代表性龙头公司如哈药股份、华北制药、白云山、华润三九和同仁堂等也均属于中药或化学原料药企业。
In capital markets, for example, the market capitalisation of these four sub-sectors was 32%, 21%, 15%, and 7% of the total market value of the pharmaceutical industry, while few listed companies were listed in medical equipment and medical services.
再加上当时中国刚加入WTO不久，许多外资医药企业还没有在中国真正大跨步发展，所以国内医药工业在临床上仍相当依靠传统中药，化学药的特点则是多而不精，疗效确切、质量过硬的化学药非常稀缺，且所谓的“西药”仍以相对低端的原料药为主，医疗器械等工业产品更是尚处于早期摸索阶段。
Moreover, many foreign pharmaceutical companies had not really taken great strides in China since China joined the WTO at that time. Therefore, the domestic pharmaceutical industry still relies heavily on traditional Chinese medicines. The chemical industry is characterized by many unrefined and effective chemicals of excellent quality.
因此，在此期间，中成药和化学制剂为主的临床终端应用的医药制造领域均受到正面刺激，呈现与行业整体相似的表现，即短期增长受到一定刺激作用，但疫情过后基本就回归全年增速，其中中药的提振效应最为明显；而原料药等与临床使用相对较远的产业链的波动则相对较小；对于卫生材料和医疗器械等行业来说，影响相对滞后，不过更可能是一个行业中长期成长发展的刺激因素。
As a result, the pharmaceutical manufacturing sector, dominated by proprietary Chinese medicines and chemical preparations, was positively stimulated during this period, showing a similar performance to the industry as a whole, with short-term growth being somewhat stimulative, but mostly returning to full-year growth after the outbreak, with TCM having the most significant boost; and industries such as APIs, which are relatively distant from clinical use, lagging behind, though more likely to be a catalyst for long-term growth in an industry.
图表3 SARS期间中国化学制剂行业增速略有提高资料来源：Wind图表4SARS期间中国中成药行业增速明显提高资料来源：Wind图表5 SARS爆发后中国卫生材料行业增速稳健提高资料来源：Wind图表6 SARS爆发后中国医疗仪器设备行业短期迅速增长资料来源：Wind总之，在短期，SARS疫情对于医药行业整体的影响为正面，受制于当时的医疗和技术条件，受益子行业主要是中药等临床用药，正面影响主要体现在短期(一个季度)。
Figure 3 Growth of Chinese pharmaceutical industry improved slightly during SARS period Source: Data source: Short-term growth rate of Chinese patent medicine industry after SARS outbreak Source: Overall, short-term impact of SARS epidemic on China's medical instrument industry as a whole is positive, subject to medical and technical conditions at the time.
而在长期，SARS疫情结束后，政府对于医疗卫生行业的投入力度明显加大，无论是国家医保、还是公共卫生体系建设，都在接下来的多年实现快速发展，甚至疫情也可能催化了新医改的出台。
In the long run, the government's commitment to the health sector has increased dramatically since the end of the SARS epidemic, with rapid growth in both the national health-care system and the public health system over the next few years, and even the outbreak may have catalyzed new health-care reforms.
因此，疫情又可能是整个产业在中长期正向发展的催化剂。
Therefore, the epidemic may be a catalyst for the positive development of the whole industry in the medium and long term.
1.2.SARS期间医药生物行业的市场表现市场方面，行业整体在短期明显跑赢大盘。
1.2. The market performance of the pharmaceutical and biological industry during the SARS period was clearly outperforming the market in the short term.
但站在2003年全年的视角去看，SARS对于市场整体和医药行业的影响并不大，医药行业也并没有展现出“受益行业”的特征，行业全年甚至跑输大盘。
But from a full-year perspective in 2003, SARS had little impact on the market as a whole or on the pharmaceutical industry, which did not exhibit the characteristics of a "beneficiary industry," losing the market all year round.
需要注意的是，尽管SARS疫情的持续时间更长，但是其真正集中爆发、并引起举国抗疫、造成经济暂时停摆的时间段主要集中在2003年的第二季度，尤其是4月中下旬到5月中上旬。
It should be noted that, despite the longer duration of the SARS epidemic, the period during which the outbreak was truly concentrated, causing a nationwide epidemic and causing a temporary economic shutdown, was concentrated in the second quarter of 2003, particularly between the second half of April and the first half of May.
因此，无论是经济停摆、还是资本市场的交易行为的时间区间都更窄。
As a result, there is a narrower time horizon for trading activity, both in the economy and in capital markets.
能够帮助我们划分SARS疫情爆发时间区间的标志性事件有：2003年4月17日中央开始采取多项紧急措施、2003年4月20日中共中央撤销北京市市长孟学农和卫生部部长张文康的党内职务、2003年4月21日国务院成立防治非典指挥部、2003年4月24日北京市中小学开始停课，经过三周左右的严密控制，在五一假期之后疫情开始出现拐点趋势，最终2003年5月22日起高三学生开始返校。
On April 17, 2003, the CPC Central Committee abolished the posts of Meng Xuenong, Mayor of Beijing, and Zhang Wenkang, Minister of Health. On April 21, 2003, the State Council established the SARS Command. After three weeks of strict control, the epidemic began to inflect point after the May Day holiday.
另一方面，在SARS疫情期间，A股市场也延迟一周开市。
On the other hand, the A-share market was delayed by a week during the SARS epidemic.
结合前文我们划分的SARS疫情爆发区间，我们认为，资本市场基本于2003年4月20日附近开始关注SARS疫情并作出剧烈反应，至交易恢复后一周的2003年5月16日就基本比较充分地反应了预期。
In view of the above-mentioned SARS outbreak zone, we believe that the capital market started to pay close attention to the SARS epidemic and reacted violently on April 20, 2003. By 16 May 2003, one week after the transaction resumed, the expectation was more or less fully reflected.
具体而言，上证综指由4月18日的1603点下跌3.0%至5月16日的1554点，期间最大跌幅7.3%；申万医药指数在同期由1288点下跌2.7%至1252点，期间最大跌幅4.9%。
Specifically, the Shanghai composite index fell 3.0 per cent from 1,603 points on April 18 to 1,554 points on 16 May, representing a 7.3 per cent drop over the period. The Shenwan medicine index fell 2.7 per cent to 1,252 points from 1,288 during the same period, with the largest decline of 4.9 per cent.
图表7 SARS爆发期间市场反应比较剧烈，医药股短期受益明显资料来源：Wind在行业内部，2003年SARS爆发时，A股医药行业的上市公司仅96家，总市值约2600亿元，且如上所述主要分布于中药、化学原料药、生物制品以及化学制剂四个子行业。
Fig. 7 The market response during the SARS outbreak has been quite intense, with obvious short-term gains for the pharmaceutical sector: Wind Within the industry, when SARS broke out in 2003, there were only 96 listed companies in the A-share pharmaceutical industry with a total market value of about 260 billion yuan.
站在一年的中期维度来看，四个子行业基本与医药行业一致，既没有展现出相对大盘的相对收益，也没有获得绝对收益；站在SARS爆发区间的短期维度来看，在2003年4月18日-2003年5月16日期间，四个子行业跌幅极为有限，不过明显跑赢大盘，子行业内部差异并不大。
In the medium-term dimension of the year, the four subsectors are broadly consistent with the pharmaceutical sector, showing neither a relative nor absolute gain in relative terms; in the short-term dimensions of the SARS outbreak zone, the four subsectors experienced very limited declines between 18 April 2003 and 16 May 2003, although they clearly outperformed the market, with little variation within the subsector.
图表8 SARS爆发期间医药行业各子板块市场表现相对平稳资料来源：Wind1.3.2019-nCoV疫情的进展与判断引起此次新型冠状病毒的2019-nCoV与SARS一样属于冠状病毒β属，二者不仅在基因型等生物学特征上有一定相似性，在流行病学等方面也有诸多可比之处。
Wind1.2019 - nCoV The development and diagnosis of the new coronavirus is as common to the coronavirus as SARS is to the 2019-nCoV strain, which is not only similar in terms of genotypes and other biological characteristics, but also has many epidemiological and other similarities.
不过如第一部分所言，2019-nCoV的传染性更强、但是重症率和死亡率目前来看并不高，卫健委数据显示新冠肺炎的重症率低于20%、死亡率约2%、治愈率已经超过10%，而且非湖北地区的重症率和死亡率更低、治愈率更高。
As noted in Part I, 2019-nCoV is more infectious, but the severity and mortality rates are currently low, with CHRP data showing rates of less than 20 per cent, death rates of about 2 per cent, cure rates of more than 10 per cent, and lower rates and higher rates of treatment in non-Hubei areas.
截至2020年2月20日，2019-nCoV疫情已确诊患者超4万人，是SARS疫情最终确诊患者数量的5倍；死亡患者1115人，略高于SARS疫情。
As of February 20, 2020, the 2019-nCoV epidemic had diagnosed more than 40,000 patients, five times the number of patients finally diagnosed with SARS; the number of deaths was 1115, slightly higher than the SARS epidemic.
另一方面，2019-nCoV疫情的拐点可能已经逐渐出现。
On the other hand, the inflection point of the 2019-nCoV epidemic may already be emerging.
目前新冠肺炎的新增确诊病例和新增疑似病例均已经连续下滑，且分别自2020年2月4日和2020年2月5日起，新增确诊病例和新增疑似病例的人数开始螺旋下降；其中，非湖北地区的新增确诊病例已经连续8天下降。
At present, the number of newly confirmed cases and new suspected cases of Newly Coronary Pneumonia has declined continuously, and since February 4, 2020 and February 5, 2020, respectively, the number of newly diagnosed cases and new suspected cases has begun to spiral downward; among them, the number of newly diagnosed cases in non-Hubei areas has decreased for 8 consecutive days.
目前来看，春节假期延长三天、各地区推迟复工1-2周以及部分地区的“封城、封村、封路”的措施确实对抑制疫情的发展起了重要作用。
The extension of the Spring Festival by three days, the postponement of the resumption of work by one to two weeks in the regions, and the closure of cities, villages and roads in some areas have indeed played an important role in curbing the spread of the epidemic.
图表9全国新增确诊病例和疑似病例趋势资料来源：丁香医生图表10各地区新增病例趋势资料来源：丁香医生如果当前疫情的进展方向能够延续，那么国内此次新冠肺炎疫情的持续时间大概率远低于SARS，暴发时间区间大概率在1月20日-2月20日附近，也明显低于SARS。
Table 9 Trends in newly diagnosed and suspected cases nationwide: Table 10 New cases by region Source: Dr. Lilac Doctor If the current course of the epidemic continues, then the probability of the outbreak of new crown pneumonia in China is much lower than that of SARS, and the probability of outbreak time in the vicinity of 20 January-20 February is significantly lower than SARS.
图表112019-nCoV疫情与2003-SARS疫情的对比资料来源：公开资料整理2.2019-nCoV疫情对医药行业的影响2.1医药行业自身的变化从2003年到2020年，中国的医药行业本身已经发生了天翻地覆的变化，因此一次疫情对行业的影响自然也与不同历史时期的环境紧密相关。
Figure 112019-nCoV Epidemic vs. 2003-SARS Source: Open Data 2.2019-nCoV Impact on the Pharmaceutical Industry 2.1 Changes in China's Pharmaceutical Industry From 2003 to 2020, the industry itself has undergone tremendous changes, so the impact of an epidemic on the industry naturally correlates closely with the circumstances of different historical periods.
SARS疫情期间，中国的医药行业整体仍处于野蛮生长的阶段，行业规模不大，但是成长性更高，国内整体的医药环境是缺医少药。
During the SARS epidemic, China's pharmaceutical industry as a whole was still in the stage of barbaric growth, the industry is not large, but growth is higher, the overall domestic medical environment is lack of medicine.
2003年国内医药卫生支出约6584亿元，同比增长14%，其中医药制造业的主营业务收入约2750亿元，当年累计增速19%，贡献最大的子行业分别是化学制剂(873亿元)、化学原料药(760亿元)、中药(751亿元)和生物制品(223亿)。
In 2003, domestic medical and health expenditure was about 658.4 billion yuan, an increase of 14% year-on-year. The major pharmaceutical business revenue was about 275 billion yuan, with a cumulative growth rate of 19%.
新冠肺炎期间，中国的医药行业已经发生了翻天覆地的变化，行业体量一跃成为世界前列。
During the New Crown Pneumonia period, China's pharmaceutical industry has undergone tremendous changes, the industry volume has become the world's leading edge.
同时，尽管行业整体增速开始下降，但子领域的丰富性大大增加、医药行业的产业属性逐渐从制造业走向科技和消费，不过整体依旧存在大而不强的问题。
At the same time, while industry growth as a whole has begun to decline, the richness of the subsector has grown considerably and the industrial attributes of the pharmaceutical industry have gradually moved from manufacturing to technology and consumption, although the overall problem remains large and weak.
2018年国内医药卫生支出约59122亿元，同比增长12%，估计医药工业板块收入约25000亿元，其中贡献最大的子行业主要是化学药(12000亿)、中药(8000亿)、医疗器械(5500亿)和生物制品(2000亿)。
In 2018, domestic medical and health expenditure was estimated at 59.22 billion yuan, an increase of 12 per cent year-on-year, with the pharmaceutical industry accounting for about 2.5 trillion yuan, with the largest subsectors contributing mainly to chemicals (1.2 trillion), Chinese medicines (800 billion), medical devices (550 billion) and biological products (200 billion).
A股市场医药行业的变化也与上述描述相吻合。
Changes in the A-share market pharmaceutical industry also coincide with the above description.
从2003年到2020年，A股医药行业的上市公司从96家扩容至320家，行业总市值从2600亿增至45000亿，市值贡献最大的三个子行业从中药、生物制品和原料药转变为化学制剂、医疗器械和中药，同时也涌现出了一批此前没有的医疗服务、医药商业等公司。
From 2003 to 2020, the number of listed companies in the A-share pharmaceutical industry expanded from 96 to 320, and the total market value of the industry increased from 260 billion to 4.5 trillion. The three subsectors with the largest market capitalization changed from traditional Chinese medicines, biological and APIs to chemicals, medical devices and traditional Chinese medicines.
图表122003年A股医药行业市值前5公司资料来源：Wind图表132020年A股医药行业市值前5公司资料来源：Wind行业体量与结构变化的背后是临床诊断、治疗和用药有了更多的储备和选择，医疗体系对抗疫情的砝码较2003年迅速增加、更加科学有效的预防和治疗手段逐渐普及。
Fig. 122003 Top 5 Sources of Market Value of A-share Pharmaceutical Industry Source: Wind Industry Volume and Structure Change Behind More Reserves and Options for Clinical Diagnosis, Treatment, and Drug Use, Health System counterweight to the epidemic is growing faster than in 2003, and more scientifically effective prevention and treatment methods are becoming more widely available.
比如，2003年SARS期间，医生能够使用的检测确诊手段极为有限，民众多以板蓝根、白醋等产品作为预防乃至治疗手段，但是2020年nCoV期间，病毒测序、影像分析、核酸检测已经能够快速诊断病情，虽然针对新型病毒仍没有特效药，但是多年的发展下，医药行业已经能够在短期迅速提供比较丰富的可选治疗产品。
For example, during the SARS epidemic in 2003, doctors were able to use only a limited number of diagnostic tests. Products such as Banlangen and White Vinegar were used as a preventive or even therapeutic tool, but in 2020 nCoV, virus sequencing, image analysis, and nucleic acid testing were able to quickly diagnose the disease.
除了行业体量和结构发生了很大变化，行业的运行逻辑也发生了重大变化。
In addition to the volume and structure of the industry has changed a lot, the industry's operating logic has also undergone major changes.
2003年国内的基本医疗需求都远未被满足，医保基金仅覆盖了1亿城镇职工，在国内医疗需求一直旺盛的情况下，主要依靠个人实现支付和研发能力落后甚至很少研发创新的工业企业完成供给。
In 2003, the country's basic medical needs were far from being met, with only 100 million urban workers covered by the Medicare fund, and industrial enterprises that relied mainly on individuals to achieve poor payment and R & D capabilities and even little R & D innovation were able to complete supply while domestic demand for health care remained strong.
在2003年SARS疫情爆发之后，中国改革开放后医疗卫生体系建设不足的弊端开始暴露，政府投入力度开始加大，新医改成为社会各界非常关注的议题，结果就是在此后很长一段时间里，政府卫生支出迅速增长、居民医保覆盖率持续提高、医改方向由“市场化”转为“非市场化”。
After the SARS epidemic broke out in 2003, the shortcomings of China's inadequate health care system began to emerge after China's reform and opening up. The government began to pay more attention to health care reform.
因此，彼时行业的中长期逻辑就是新医改下支付端的扩容红利，而医药工业则凭借市场化和产业化的优势迎来了优于医疗服务的发展机遇。
Therefore, the medium and long-term logic of the industry is the expansion dividend under the new healthcare reform, and the pharmaceutical industry by virtue of the advantages of marketization and industrialization ushered in better development opportunities than medical services.
图表14 SARS之后政府在医药卫生支出的比重开始加大资料来源：Wind图表15 SARS之后医保渗透率开始迅速提升资料来源：Wind2020年的中国医药行业仍以满足内需为主，但是医保基金已经基本实现了14亿人的全覆盖，政府卫生支出也已经成为医药卫生支出的主力。
Source: Wind2020 China's pharmaceutical industry is still dominated by domestic demand, but the Medicare fund has already achieved nearly full coverage of 1.4 billion people, and government spending on health has become the mainstay of medical and health spending.
同时，医保控费、支付扩容红利消失，行业迎来了结构性调整：医疗服务的价值逐渐被重视，医药工业整体则受制于价格管控增速持续下降。
At the same time, health-care costs and pay-out bonuses have disappeared, bringing structural adjustments to the industry: the value of health-care services is increasingly valued, and the pharmaceutical industry as a whole is subject to declining price controls.
在医疗服务环节，医疗资源尤其是优质医疗资源的供求矛盾依旧非常突出，社会办医、分级诊疗、互联网诊疗成为新的趋势；在制造业内部，创新、疗效、经济成为新的竞争要素，转型创新、结构调整成为此时的核心逻辑。
In the medical service sector, the contradiction between supply and demand for medical resources, especially quality medical resources, is still very prominent. Social medicine, graded medical treatment and Internet diagnosis and treatment have become new trends. Within the manufacturing industry, innovation, curative effect and economy have become new competitive factors.
2.2疫情对于医药行业的短期影响短期来看，与肺炎疫情无关的医疗服务被抑制、医药工业的生产经营活动也被抑制。
2.2 Short-term Impact of the Epidemic on the Pharmaceutical IndustryIn the short term, medical services unrelated to the pneumonia epidemic have been suppressed, as has the production and operation of the pharmaceutical industry.
但是与消费等行业不同的是，春节期间一直是医疗服务就诊、医药工业企业生产经营的淡季，因此我们认为疫情的负面冲击并不大，仅为短期影响，且由于医疗服务本身的刚需特点，多数慢性病的就诊可能只是被推迟1-2个月，并不会被抑制。
However, unlike other industries such as consumption, the Spring Festival period has been a low season for medical consultations, pharmaceutical and industrial enterprises, so we believe that the negative impact of the epidemic is small, only short-term impact, and because of the immediate needs of the medical services themselves, most chronic diseases may be delayed for only one to two months and will not be suppressed.
对于与疫情相关的部分工业企业而言，短期需求确实出现明显增长，但是对各子行业及企业的影响依然要看具体产品的研发进展、临床效果以及供给情况，目前主要涉及药品、器械诊断和医用防护三大类产品。
While it is true that short-term demand has increased significantly for some of the industrial enterprises associated with the epidemic, the impact on various subsectors and enterprises will continue to depend on the progress of research and development of specific products, their clinical effects and the supply situation.
首先是药品领域。
The first is the field of pharmaceuticals.
目前针对疫情并无特效药，不过根据《新型冠状病毒肺炎诊疗指南》和疾病本身的特点，一些广谱抗病毒药、抗生素、中药和生物制品等可能会在临床得到较多使用，因此可能受益。
At present, there is no specific medicine against the epidemic, but according to the "Guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of coronavirus pneumonia" and the characteristics of the disease itself, some broad-spectrum anti-viral drugs, antibiotics, traditional Chinese medicines and biological products may be used more clinically and may therefore benefit.
抗病毒药方面，瑞德西韦凭借其结构特征、体外研究以及部分国外的临床应用，成为医学界最期待的一款产品，目前已经通过各种快速通道进入临床三期试验，预计4月下旬完成临床研究。
With regard to antiviral drugs, Rhetsevir has become the most anticipated product in the medical field due to its structural features, in vitro studies and some foreign clinical applications. It has now entered clinical phase III trials through various fast-track approaches and is expected to complete its clinical studies in late April.
不过由于疫情的急迫性，不排除瑞德西韦在初步临床结果能够证实其安全性和有效性的基础上通过同情用药等方案实现快速应用。
Because of the urgency of the outbreak, however, it is not excluded that Rhetsevir can be rapidly applied by means of compassionate medication on the basis of preliminary clinical results confirming its safety and efficacy.
除瑞德西韦外，洛匹那韦/利托纳韦、α干扰素、阿比朵尔、法匹拉韦等已上市的药物均在体外显示了抗新型冠状病毒活性，因此尽管其都没有完成临床研究或还没有进行临床研究，但也都有望在临床中获得较广泛的使用。
In addition to Rhetsevir, marketed drugs such as Lopinavir / Litonavir, Jr. Interferon, Abidol, and Fabiravi have shown new coronavirus activity in vitro, so that they are expected to become more widely used clinically, although neither clinical studies nor clinical studies have been conducted.
尽管指南已经明确避免不合理使用抗生素，但是许多患者都为中老年人，很容易出现继发性的细菌感染，因此疫情期间抗生素的用量增长是大概率事件。
Although the guidelines have explicitly avoided irrational use of antibiotics, many patients are middle-aged and elderly and are vulnerable to secondary bacterial infections, so the increase in antibiotic use during the outbreak is a high probability event.
不过，由于疫情主要集中于湖北地区，而且很多慢性病的就诊需求已经被压制导致其他科室对抗生素的需求量下降，所以抗生素整体的销售表现还存在不确定性。
However, since the epidemic is concentrated in Hubei, and the demand for many chronic diseases has been suppressed, leading to a decline in demand for antibiotics in other departments, there is uncertainty about the overall performance of antibiotics.
由于缺少特效药，指南里也推荐了中药和激素的治疗方案：对于轻症患者，指南推荐了莲花清瘟、藿香正气、金花清感等中成药和中药饮片，对于中重症患者，指南提及必要时可以使用甲泼尼龙和血必净注射液、喜炎平注射液等以辅助治疗。
In the absence of specific drugs, the guidelines also recommend treatments for traditional Chinese medicines and hormones: for light cases, the guidelines recommend proprietary Chinese medicines such as lotus rinderpest, patchouli, and ginseng, as well as Chinese herbal medicines. For patients with severe or moderate illnesses, the guidelines refer to the use of Depo-Medrol and Haemijin Injection, Xiyanping Injection, etc., as necessary.
对于OTC中成药来说，由于其针对轻重症和疑似病例可能具备一定的治疗作用，且常见于药店等To C端渠道，我们认为在短期缺乏特效药的情况下，“抢购双黄连”在短期确实可能存在，因此部分OTC中成药的短期消费量可能有比较明显的增长。
For OTC proprietary Chinese medicines, which may have some therapeutic effects on mild and suspected cases, and are often found in To C channels such as pharmacies, we believe that in the short term, "rush buying" may indeed exist in the short term, so the short-term consumption of some OTC Chinese patent medicines is likely to increase significantly.
图表16 疫情相关药品及对应公司资料来源：《新型冠状病毒感染肺炎诊疗指南》疫苗是另一个公众关心的焦点。
Fig. 16 Outbreak-Related Drugs and Coronavirus Coronavirus Infection Pneumonia Diagnostic Guide is another focus of public concern.
但是疫苗研发周期较长，根据最近的疫情进展，我们认为最终新冠疫苗研发成功后可能已经不太拥有市场，只能用作储备。
But with a longer vaccine development cycle, based on recent outbreaks, we believe that the eventual success of the new crown vaccine may not have much market, only as a reserve.
不过，此次疫情有可能会提高公众对于流感疫苗等二类苗的接种热情，在中长期提高这些产品的渗透率，加速行业成长。
However, the outbreak has the potential to increase public enthusiasm for influenza vaccines and other secondary vaccines, increase the penetration of these products in the medium to long term and accelerate industry growth.
其次是器械与诊断领域。
This was followed by the field of instrumentation and diagnosis.
检测诊断是疫情期间最为繁忙的工作环节之一，疫情期间需求量增长最快的器械也主要是医用检测设备及试剂，目前主要的诊断环节有常规检测、影像检测和核酸检测等。
Detection and diagnosis is one of the busiest work links during the epidemic period. The fastest-growing devices during the epidemic period are mainly medical testing equipment and reagents.
常规检测是医学检验的基本环节，主要就是检测白细胞数量、肌红蛋白等，使用的仪器有血球分析仪等，由于常规检测总次数很高，再考虑到疫情对于其他科室就诊的负面冲击，估计此次疫情带来的弹性并不大。
Routine detection is the basic part of medical examination, mainly to detect the number of leukocytes, myoglobin, and so on, using instruments such as blood cell analyzer, due to the total number of routine tests, and considering the negative impact of the outbreak on other departments and offices, it is estimated that the epidemic has little flexibility.
影像检测既用于疑似病例肺部的初步诊断，也用于确诊患者和中重症患者的病情管理，其主要设备就是DR、CT等。
Imaging detection is used not only for the initial diagnosis of suspected cases of lung, but also for the diagnosis and management of severe and middle-aged patients.
目前全国DR年销量约1.5万台，由于DR等大型设备存在采购和安装时间以及较长的使用寿命，因此疫情在短期可能并不会催生太多医院新的采购需求，但是预计此次疫情将使得县级医院就诊能力落后的问题进一步暴露，分级诊疗方针进一步落实，则将有利于DR等医疗设备在中长期向基层医疗机构渗透。
Because of the procurement and installation time and the long service life of large-scale equipment such as DR, the epidemic is not expected to lead to many new hospital procurement needs in the short term, but the epidemic is expected to further expose the problem of backward hospital capacity at the county level. Further implementation of the phased approach will facilitate the penetration of DR and other medical equipment in the medium to long term.
图表17近年来国内的DR年销量资料来源：中国产业信息网图表18国内县级医院的DR产品配备不足资料来源：健康资讯核酸检测主要用于疑似病例的排查参考。
Chart 17 Data on annual domestic DR sales in recent years: China Industrial Information Network Chart 18 Domestic county hospitals DR products under-equipped source: Health information nucleic acid testing mainly used for the screening of suspected cases.
目前，国内已经有多家企业和机构研发并生产出来新冠肺炎的核酸检测试剂盒，基本能够满足临床的检测需求。
At present, many enterprises and institutions in China have developed and produced the Nucleic Acid Test Kit for New Crown Pneumonia, which can basically meet the needs of clinical testing.
由于核酸检测主要用于疑似病例的排查参考、试剂盒本身单价不高，预计其增量弹性不大。
As nucleic acid detection is mainly used for the screening of suspected cases, the unit price of the kit itself is not high, its incremental flexibility is not expected.
除了检测诊断，在临床治疗过程中，监护仪、呼吸机、制氧机等产品的需求在短期会出现较快增长，基层医疗机构对上述器械产品的采购有望贡献明显增量。
In addition to detection and diagnosis, the demand of monitor, ventilator, oxygen generator and other products will increase rapidly in the short term.
而且，呼吸机、制氧机等具备消费属性的器械产品有望借此次疫情进一步拓展院外市场。
Moreover, breathing machine, oxygen machine and other instruments with consumer properties are expected to further expand the outside market due to the epidemic situation.
最后是医用防护产品。
Finally, medical protection products.
此次疫情中，供求矛盾最突出的可能是口罩等医用防护产品。
In this outbreak, the most prominent contradiction between supply and demand may be medical protection products such as masks.
根据WHO，目前中国口罩年产量约45亿只，占全球的一半，且以出口为主，但是当前形势下全球需求量已增长至往年的100倍。
According to the World Health Organization, China now produces about 4.5 billion masks a year, about half the world's total, and exports predominate, but global demand has grown 100 times as much as in previous years.
尽管供需极度失衡，但是由于产能约束和价格管控，医用防护产品的增长幅度有限，且春节期间用工成本、上游原材料成本的上涨，行业盈利能力反而可能出现一定下滑。
Despite the huge imbalance between supply and demand, the growth of medical protection products is limited due to capacity constraints and price controls, and the cost of labor during the Spring Festival, upstream raw material costs, industry profitability may actually decline.
不过中长期看，尽管中国早已是医用敷料的生产大国，但是医用防护等医用敷料产品的渗透率并不高，目前行业需求仍主要来源于欧美等发达国家。
However, in the medium and long term, although China has long been a big producer of medical dressings, the penetration rate of medical dressing products such as medical protection is not high.
BMI数据显示，2016年中国医用敷料行业仅占全球的8%，此次疫情有望提高医疗机构和公众对于医用防护产品的重视力度。
With the medical dressing industry accounting for only 8% of the world's total in 2016, the epidemic is expected to raise the profile of medical care providers and the general public, according to BMI data.
2.3疫情对于医药行业的中长期影响如前文所述，SARS疫情对于医药行业短期的影响主要集中在1个季度，且主要是对工业产品和医疗服务的供求造成干扰。
2.3 medium- and long-term effects of the epidemic on the pharmaceutical industry As mentioned earlier, the short-term impact of the SARS epidemic on the pharmaceutical industry has been concentrated in one quarter and has mainly disrupted the supply of and demand for industrial and medical services.
但长期而言，SARS疫情作为一个催化剂，暴露了当时中国公共卫生领域的诸多不足，也使得政府和社会各界开始反思公共卫生体系的漏洞和改革开放以来医疗保障体系建设的不足，新医改由此孕育而生，医疗卫生等领域的改革不再仅仅是经济建设的配套工作，而是成为“科学发展”下的重要组成。
But in the long run, the SARS epidemic served as a catalyst, exposing many shortcomings in the public health field at the time. It also caused the government and the community to reflect on the flaws in the public health system and the shortcomings in the medical security system since the reform and opening up.
医药行业自2003年之后开始步入远高于GDP增长的黄金成长期，主要就是因为政府加大公共卫生体系和医疗保障体系的建设，医保扩容、医药渗透率提高使得行业步入快速发展期。
Since 2003, the pharmaceutical industry has entered a golden age of well above GDP growth, largely because of the government's expanded public health and health-care systems, and the rapid expansion of health-care capacity and penetration rates.
而在此次新型冠状病毒肺炎爆发期间，中国的医疗体系也暴露了一些不足：比如医疗资源供给有限、基层医疗建设不足，公共卫生体系建设有待加强、物资储备不够以及新药研发水平比较落后等，而与这些矛盾相对应的改革也有望加速推进、并催生出更多新业态，对行业的长期发展造成深远影响。
During the outbreak of the new coronavirus pneumonia, China's health-care system has also revealed some shortcomings: limited medical resources, inadequate primary health care, a weak public health system, insufficient material reserves, and lagging research and development of new drugs.
首先是医疗资源供需的矛盾。
The first is the contradiction between supply and demand of medical resources.
此次疫情主要爆发在医疗基础设施相对发达、医疗资源供给相对充分的武汉，但是疫情爆发后，医疗资源供给不足的现象依然非常突出。
The outbreak occurred mainly in Wuhan, where medical infrastructure is relatively well developed and medical resources are relatively plentiful, but the shortage of medical resources is still outstanding after the outbreak.
根据国家卫健委，目前已经有超2万名医护人员的医疗队伍支援湖北和武汉，而湖北省的注册医护人员总数约30万，武汉市估计不到8万，可见国内医疗资源的供给依然不足。
According to the National Fitness and Health Commission, there are now more than 20,000 medical personnel supporting Hubei and Wuhan. The total number of registered medical workers in Hubei Province is about 300,000, and Wuhan is estimated to be less than 80,000.
而且，国内基层医疗建设不够完善，三级医院人满为患早已经成为常态，因此在疫情爆发时供求矛盾就会彻底暴露。
Moreover, the construction of primary medical care in China is not perfect, the overcrowding of the tertiary hospitals has become the norm, so in the outbreak of supply and demand will be completely exposed.
目前解决医疗资源供给不足的方案主要是加大基层医疗设施的建设，推进分级诊疗。
At present, the solution to the shortage of medical resources is mainly to increase the construction of primary health-care facilities, promote graded diagnosis and treatment.
总体而言，分级诊疗在全国的进度依旧缓慢，主要也是因为基层设施建设力度不够。
Overall, tiered treatment is still slow across the country, mainly due to inadequate infrastructure construction.
不过此次疫情可能成为加快推进分级诊疗的催化剂，近日政治局常务委员会会议也明确指出，“要聚焦攻克脱贫攻坚战最后堡垒，结合推进乡村振兴战略，以疫情防治为切入点，加强乡村人居环境整治和公共卫生体系建设” 。
The meeting of the Standing Committee of the Politburo recently made it clear that the focus should be on overcoming the last bastion of the battle against poverty, combining the strategy of rural renewal with the prevention and control of the epidemic as an entry point to strengthen the environmental improvement of rural human settlements and the building of public health systems.
而我们认为，在加大基层医疗设施建设、推进分级诊疗的过程中，最大受益方可能就是必备的医疗器械企业。
We believe that in the process of increasing the construction of primary medical facilities and promoting graded medical treatment, the biggest beneficiary may be the necessary medical device enterprises.
互联网医疗则可能从市场化角度自下而上加速这一进程。
Internet medicine may accelerate this process from the bottom up from a market perspective.
此次疫情中，互联网医疗成为疏解医疗机构供给压力的重要渠道。
In this epidemic, Internet medicine has become an important channel to relieve the pressure on medical institutions.
一方面是各地多家医院通过互联网提供医疗服务，解决部分常见病、慢性病的诊疗压力；另一方面，阿里健康、春雨医生、腾讯健康、平安好医生、丁香园等多个互联网医疗平台向患者和普通民众提供在线问诊、宣传防疫、跟踪疫情等服务，缓解了实体医疗机构的压力和交叉感染的问题。
On the one hand, many hospitals around the world provide medical services via the Internet to solve some common and chronic diseases. On the other hand, many Internet medical platforms, such as Ali's Health, Spring Rain Doctor, Tencent Health, Safe and Good Doctor, Lilac Garden, provide patients and the general public with on-line medical consultation, epidemic information and follow-up of epidemic diseases.
事实上，国内的互联网医疗行业近年来一直在快速发展。
In fact, the domestic Internet medical industry has been developing rapidly in recent years.
仅2019年，国务院、国家卫健委、国家医保局等多个部门就出台了多项鼓励互联网医疗发展的文件措施；科技的快速进步也使互联网医疗能够突破传统“问诊”的局限，在线会诊甚至精密手术等复杂的诊疗活动都在逐渐成为现实。
In 2019 alone, the State Council, the National Fitness Commission, the National Health Service and other government departments have launched a number of measures to encourage medical development on the Internet. Rapid technological progress has also enabled Internet medical services to break through the limitations of traditional "consultation," with complex clinical activities such as online consultation and even precision surgery becoming a reality.
我们认为，互联网医疗在此次疫情中的表现有望从政策支持、消费者接受程度等多个维度给行业带来革命性的变化。
We believe that the performance of Internet medicine in this epidemic is expected to revolutionize the industry in many dimensions such as policy support and consumer acceptance.
其次是公共卫生体系建设的不足。
Secondly, the construction of public health system is inadequate.
尽管我国的医疗卫生与计划生育财政支出力度逐年加大，但是公共卫生领域的投入力度仍有很大不足。
Although China's health care and family planning fiscal expenditure has increased year by year, but the public health investment is still very insufficient.
过去多年，财政在医药卫生领域的支出主要体现在医保覆盖面的扩大，而公共卫生体系建设乃至医院等医疗机构体系的建设力度都还不够。
In the past few years, the public health expenditure mainly reflects the expansion of medical insurance coverage, but the construction of the public health system and even hospitals and other medical institutions are not enough.
因此，新冠肺炎爆发后，我国的医改方向可能会侧重于解决这一问题，公共卫生和医疗机构的投资力度有望加大，医用口罩等新的战略储备物资的采购量也有望提高。
Therefore, after the outbreak of the new crown pneumonia, the direction of China's health reform is likely to focus on solving this problem, public health and medical institutions investment is expected to increase, and the procurement of new strategic stocks, such as medical masks, is expected to increase.
图表19医疗卫生与计划生育财政支出力度逐渐加大资料来源：wind图表20医疗财政支出中公共卫生投入力度不够(亿元)资料来源：wind对于医疗机构而言，公共卫生体系建设中的重要一环是院内的感染控制，院内感染也一直是医疗机构的难题。
Chart 19 Increasing Public Health Expenditure on Health Care and Family Planning Source: Public Health Expenditure Not Enough Public Health Expenditure Source: For medical institutions, infection control in hospitals is an important part of the public health system, and nosocomial infections have been a problem in medical institutions.
无论是SARS疫情，还是此次新冠肺炎疫情，院内感染均造成了许多医护人员的感染甚至死亡，在SARS疫情之后，院内感染开始逐渐得到重视和控制，但是力度依然不够。
Both the SARS outbreak and the nosocomial infection caused the infection and even death of many medical staff. After SARS, nosocomial infection began to get more attention and control, but it was not enough.
据2017年的“mrsa院内感染诊治策略会议”，目前中国院内感染的发生率约8%，每例院内感染患者的住院时间平均延长14天，全国每年因此直接损失超过150亿元。
According to the 2017 "Mrsa Hospital Infection Treatment Strategy Conference," the current incidence of nosocomial infections in China is about 8%, with an average hospital stay of 14 days for each nosocomial infection, resulting in annual direct losses of more than $15 billion.
因此，我们认为，此次疫情有望催使医疗机构加大院内感染防控力度，消毒液、防护服、医用口罩等的采购需求可能迎来一个长期拐点，智能手术机器人等高端设备也可能因此逐渐被医疗机构重视和使用。
Therefore, we believe that the epidemic is expected to prompt medical institutions to strengthen the prevention and control of hospital infection, disinfectant, protective clothing, medical masks and other procurement needs may usher in a long-term inflection point, intelligent surgical robots and other high-end equipment may gradually be valued and used by medical institutions.
对于普通居民而言，此次疫情将带来公共卫生预防观念和医学科普的快速提升。
For ordinary residents, the epidemic will lead to a rapid rise in the concept of public health prevention and medical science popularization.
在疫情期间，公众对于防护口罩、手套、消毒用品以及医学科普知识的需求激增，更重要的是，公众的预防观念和对健康的重视程度可能因此得到迅速提高，未来这类产品和服务有望长期维持较高的需求水平。
During the epidemic, there has been a surge in public demand for protective masks, gloves, disinfectant supplies and general knowledge of medical science. More importantly, the public's perception of prevention and attention to health is likely to increase rapidly, and it is expected that high levels of demand for such products and services will be maintained in the long term.
我们认为，疫情对于家用防护及器械产品、医学科普和在线问诊咨询的影响可能是深远的。
We believe that the impact of the epidemic on household protection and appliance products, medical science and online consultation can be far-reaching.
最后是新药研发水平低下的现状。
Finally, there is the low level of new drug development.
此次疫情下，另一个突出的矛盾是公众对于临床特效药和疫苗的需求和企业对产品的研发能力和速度不匹配。
Another striking contradiction in this epidemic is the mismatch between public demand for clinically specific drugs and vaccines and the ability and speed of firms to develop products.
一方面是因为新型冠状病毒本身是一种新型病毒，确实难以快速研制出有效的产品；但另一方面，此次疫情也反映出国内医药工业领域的落后，目前几个潜在的特效药均来自国外药企，国内对于新药研发的储备还远远不够。
On the one hand, the new coronavirus itself is a new kind of virus, so it is difficult to develop an effective product quickly. On the other hand, the current epidemic reflects the lag in the domestic pharmaceutical industry.
近年来，药监局等政府部门一直在改革审评审批机制，加快创新产品的上市速度，在此次疫情期间，多个潜在特效药的临床审批等也纷纷创造最快纪录。
In recent years, government departments such as the Drug Administration have been reforming the review and approval mechanism to speed up the launch of innovative products.
我们认为，政策会进一步鼓励创新，提高企业对于研发社会亟需新药的热情，在工业领域，“创新”的地位会进一步加强，行业主线依然是医保控费下的结构调整。
We believe that policies will further encourage innovation and increase the enthusiasm of enterprises for new drugs urgently needed by the R & D community. In industry, the status of "innovation" will be further strengthened, and the main line of business will remain restructuring under health-care control costs.
3.市场展望自1月20日至2月20日，医药行业上涨2.47%，同期沪深300指数下跌3.21%，医药行业整体及各细分子领域均大幅跑赢大盘。
3.Market outlook From January 20 to February 20, the pharmaceutical industry rose 2.47%, while the Shanghai-Shenzhen 300 Index fell 3.21% over the same period.
结合前文对于疫情爆发区间的判断，我们认为资本市场的短期波动基本步入尾声。
Combined with the above analysis of the outbreak range, we believe that the short-term fluctuations of the capital market have basically come to an end.
图表21年初至今申万医药行业大幅跑赢大盘资料来源：Wind图表22年初至今申万医药各子行业表现资料来源：Wind当前行业估值约40倍PE-TTM，相对沪深300的溢价率约241%，均处于2019年以来的高位和2016年以来的中高位水平。
Source: Wind's current industry estimates are about 40 times PE-TTM, about 241% above the 300% premium in Shanghai and Shenzhen, both at their highs since 2019 and their medium-high levels since 2016.
短期而言，与疫情相关的OTC中药、家用和医用设备耗材以及潜在特效药的临床进展会加快发展；此外，由于新冠疫情，上半年的医保支出压力可能加大、为了降低中小企业负担，医保收入在短期也有所下降，不排除后续医保加大控费力度，重视药品和耗材的带量采购政策变化。
In the short term, clinical advances in OTC medicines, household and medical equipment consumables, and potential specific medicines associated with the epidemic will accelerate; in addition, health-care spending pressures may increase in the first half of the year owing to the new crown, and health-care revenues may fall in the short term to reduce the burden on SMEs.
长期来看，医药行业可能受疫情催化迎来新的变革，财政对于公告卫生领域的投入力度可能加大。
In the long run, the pharmaceutical industry may be catalyzed by the epidemic to usher in new changes, financial investment in the announced health sector may increase.
我们预计制造业仍以医保控费、结构调整、创新驱动为主线，符合行业长期发展方向的创新药龙头企业，转型创新的传统药企，产品受益于分级诊疗实现快速成长的医疗器械企业；在医疗服务领域，公共卫生、分级诊疗以及互联网医疗的建设有望迎来明显突破，医疗机构和居民的防护意识得到增强，互联网医疗平台企业和医用防护产品企业会获得市场青睐。
We expect the manufacturing industry to continue to be dominated by healthcare fee control, structural adjustment, innovation-driven, innovative drug-leading enterprises in line with the industry's long-term development direction, transformation and innovation of traditional pharmaceutical enterprises, products that benefit from rapid growth in medical equipment.
（作者李湛为中山证券首席经济学家、刘亚洲为中山证券助理研究员）▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
(Author Li Zhanfor Zhongshan Securities Chief Economist and Liu Asia Assistant Researcher for Zhongshan Securities) Click here to see more details about the outbreak. & nbsp; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article by Caijing magazine and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
新冠疫情将推进医药行业哪些发展变革？。
What development changes will the new crown epidemic promote in the pharmaceutical industry?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "新冠疫情将推进医药行业哪些发展变革？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "短期而言，与疫情相关的OTC中药、家用和医用设备耗材以及潜在特效药的临床进展会加快发展；长期来看，医药行业可";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; that clinical progress at OTC, household and medical equipment, and potentially specialty drugs associated with the epidemic will accelerate in the short term; and that the pharmaceutical industry has AT & quot; in the long run.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
