专访世卫前负责人海曼：抗疫关键是开放，中国一直分享数据。
Interview with former WHO official Hyman: The key to fighting the epidemic is openness, and China has been sharing data.
江玮。
Jianwei.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
中国停止武汉的航班，延迟了病毒蔓延到其他国家的步伐。
China's suspension of flights to Wuhan has delayed the spread of the virus to other countries.
在七、八个星期的时间里，我们对病毒的了解已经非常充分，这归功于国际协作和分享信息。
In seven or eight weeks, we know enough about the virus, thanks to international collaboration and information-sharing.
我听说中国展开了多项试验，世卫组织也在与中方合作，看哪些药物能被证明为有效伦敦卫生与热带医学院流行病学教授大卫·海曼。
I have heard that China has conducted many trials, and WHO is working with China to see which drugs can prove effective as David Hyman, Professor of Epidemiology at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.
图片源自世卫组织官方网站文 |《财经》特派伦敦记者 江玮编辑 | 郝洲在新型冠状病蔓延的过程中，各国采取了不同的策略。
Photo taken from Caijing's official website & # 160; & # 45; London reporter Jiang Wei & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
对于是否关闭公共场所、取消公共集会，轻症病人是居家隔离还是集中收治，各国做出的决定不尽相同。
Decisions on whether to close public places and cancel public meetings, and whether light patients are housed in separate or centralized facilities, vary from country to country.
“每个国家都会针对风险作出自己的评估，然后根据其自身能力做出反应。
"Each country makes its own assessment of the risks and then responds according to its own capabilities.
有的国家有能力进行隔离或者采取其他举措，有的国家则缺乏这样的能力，因此没有采取同样的举措。
Some countries have the capacity to segregate or undertake other initiatives, while others lack the capacity to do so and are therefore not doing the same.
”伦敦卫生与热带医学院流行病学教授大卫·海曼近日在接受《财经》记者专访时表示，他也是英国皇家国际事务研究所全球卫生安全中心主任。
David Heymann, professor of epidemiology at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, told Caijing recently that he is also director of the Centre for Global Health Security at the Royal Institute of International Affairs.
截至当地时间3月1日晚间，英国确诊新冠肺炎病例36例，其中大部分来自英格兰地区。
By the evening of March 1, local time, 36 new cases of pneumonia had been confirmed in the UK, most of them in England.
海曼曾于2012年至2017年担任英格兰公共卫生署主席，他表示英国有能力遏制或者延迟疫情的爆发。
Mr. Heyman, who chaired England's Department of Public Health from 2012 to 2017, said the UK had the ability to contain or delay the outbreak.
尽管戴口罩在中国被视为应对新冠病毒的一种方式，但海曼指出，英国政府的决定仍是不建议民众戴口罩，除非是医护人员或者出现了生病的症状。
Although wearing masks is seen in China as a way to deal with the new crown virus, Hyman said the UK government's decision was not to recommend wearing masks unless they were paramedics or showed signs of illness.
海曼曾出任世界卫生组织负责卫生安全的助理总干事。
Hyman was Assistant Director General for Health and Safety at the World Health Organization.
在2003年非典肺炎疫情爆发时，他在世卫组织担任传染病集群项目的执行主任，负责领导全球应对非典的努力。
At the outbreak of SARS in 2003, he was Executive Director of the Communicable Diseases Cluster Project at WHO, leading the global response to SARS.
在他看来，开放是人类从抗击非典过程中吸取的经验教训。
In his view, openness was a lesson that humanity had learned from the fight against SARS.
《财经》：为何我们在这一阶段突然看到更多国家出现了新冠肺炎确诊病例，尤其是在意大利？大卫·海曼：意大利发生了大规模的疫情爆发。
Caijing: Why did we suddenly see more countries with confirmed cases of pneumonia at this stage, especially in Italy? David Heyman: There was a massive outbreak in Italy.
目前还不清楚病毒是如何在社区传播的，一些到意大利伦巴第地区旅行的人也受到了感染。
It is not clear how the virus spread in the community and some people travelling to the Lombardy region of Italy have also been infected.
《财经》：但意大利是第一个对中国全面禁止航班的国家，这是否表明航班禁令并不能发挥预期的作用？大卫·海曼：我对意大利的情况不甚了解，但我所知的是，当中国停止湖北飞往其他地方的航班，减少了离开武汉的人员数量，这一举措给其他国家更长的时间来做好应对准备。
Caijing: But is Italy the first country to impose a total ban on flights? David Heymann: I don't know much about Italy, but what I know is that when China stopped flights from Hubei to other places and reduced the number of people leaving Wuhan, it gave other countries more time to prepare for it.
如果中国没有停止武汉的航班，这些国家无法争取到更多时间。
If China does not stop flights to Wuhan, these countries will not be able to buy more time.
中国的这一决定延迟了病毒蔓延到其他国家的步伐。
China's decision delayed the spread of the virus to other countries.
《财经》：你如何看待英国目前的情况？我们会看到更大规模的爆发吗？大卫·海曼：没人可以做出预测，但英国有非常坚实的战略：遏制、延迟和研究。
Caijing: What do you think of the current situation in Britain? Are we going to see bigger eruptions? David Heyman: No one can predict, but the UK has a very solid strategy: containment, delay, and research.
《财经》：不同国家在应对新冠肺炎时采取不同的策略，有的国家关闭了公共场所，取消了公共集会，但有的国家并没有。
Caijing: Different countries have adopted different strategies to deal with pneumonia in the New Crown. Some countries have closed public places and cancelled public meetings, but others have not.
如何在反应过度和掉以轻心之间做出平衡？大卫·海曼：每个国家都会针对风险作出自己的评估，然后根据其自身能力做出反应。
How to strike a balance between overreaction and lightness? David Heyman: Every country makes its own assessment of risk and then responds according to its own capabilities.
有的国家有能力进行隔离或者采取其他举措，有的国家则缺乏这样的能力，因此没有采取同样的举措。
Some countries have the capacity to segregate or undertake other initiatives, while others lack the capacity to do so and are therefore not doing the same.
每个国家要采取与其能力相匹配的行动。
Each country needs to take action commensurate with its capabilities.
《财经》：在中国采取的一项措施是要求民众在公共场合尽量戴口罩，但我们在英国很少看到这种做法。
Caijing: One of the measures taken in China is to require people to wear masks in public as much as possible, but we rarely see this practice in Britain.
大卫·海曼：除非你生病了，否则没有必要戴口罩。
David Heyman: Unless you're sick, there's no need to wear a mask.
如果你咳嗽、打喷嚏，戴口罩可以防止其他人被你传染，无论是新冠病毒还是流感。
If you cough or sneeze, wearing a mask can prevent other people from getting infected, be it the new crown virus or the flu.
但如果戴口罩的本意是为了自我保护，它其实无法起到这样的作用。
But if the mask is meant to protect itself, it won't actually do so.
因为当你摘下口罩时，你必须要非常小心。
Because when you take off your mask, you have to be very careful.
最重要的是保持双手清洁，多洗手，因为这是病毒在人与人之间传播的方式。
The most important thing is to keep your hands clean and wash your hands as this is how the virus spreads from person to person.
《财经》：但在中国戴口罩被视为一种预防和自我保护，为什么我们看到两种不同的态度？大卫·海曼：因为戴口罩起不到自我保护的作用，除非你是医护人员或者自己生病了。
Caijing: But wearing masks in China is seen as a form of prevention and self-protection, why do we see two different attitudes? David Hyman: Because wearing masks doesn't protect you, unless you're a paramedics or you're sick.
使用口罩也要非常小心，因为你摘下口罩的时候，如果没有洗手，你的口罩就有可能被你的手污染。
Use masks with great care, because if you don't wash your hands when you take them off, your hands can contaminate yours.
因此，戴口罩不是一种有实效的方法。
Wearing masks is therefore not an effective method.
如果你出现咳嗽或者打喷嚏的症状，戴上口罩保护的是别人而不是你自己。
If you have symptoms of coughing or sneezing, wear a mask to protect someone other than yourself.
《财经》：这是否意味着在中国也没有必要让大家都戴上口罩？大卫·海曼：这要由政府决定。
Caijing: Does this mean there's no need for everyone to wear masks in ChinaDavid Hyman: It's up to the government to decide.
英国政府的决定是不建议戴口罩，因为没有基于科学的证据表明这是有效的。
The UK government's decision was not to recommend wearing masks because there was no scientific evidence that they were effective.
中国掌握的信息可能不一样，每个国家可以自主做出决定。
China may have different information, and each country can make its own decisions.
《财经》：你认为想要遏制病毒的扩散，最需要采取的措施是什么？大卫·海曼：取决于每个国家能做什么。
Caijing: What do you think is the most important thing to do to stop the spread of the virus? David Heyman: It depends on what each country can do.
有的时候一些国家可以遏制或者延迟疫情的爆发，比如英国。
Sometimes countries, like the United Kingdom, can contain or delay an outbreak.
但有的国家无法做到。
But some countries cannot.
重要的是要明白这个疾病是什么，如何防止自己被感染，这需要勤洗手、保持良好的个人卫生。
It is important to understand what the disease is and how to prevent it, which requires frequent hand washing and good personal hygiene.
《财经》：随着更多国家出现感染病例，是否到了世界卫生组织宣布新冠肺炎为全球流行病的时候了？大卫·海曼：这是世卫组织的工作，不是我的。
Caijing: As more countries get infected, is it time for the World Health Organization to declare pneumonia as a global epidemic? David Heyman: It's WHO's job, not mine.
世卫组织已经宣布将新冠肺炎列为国际关注的突发公共卫生事件（PHEIC），这足以动员大家对其引起重视，并采取相应行动。
WHO has declared pneumonia as a public health emergency of international concern (PHEIC), enough to mobilize attention and action.
我认为宣布新冠肺炎为大流行病并不会改变现在正在做的事情。
I do not believe that declaring a new crown pneumonia pandemic will change what is being done.
各国都在做风险评估，并做出回应。
Risk assessments are conducted and responses are provided in all countries.
我的理解是，宣布新冠肺炎为全球流行病并不会改变太多事情。
My understanding is that declaring pneumonia as a global epidemic will not change much.
人们在等待听到“大流行”这样的说法，但它的意义可能没有人们想象的那么重要。
People are waiting to hear the word "pandemic," but its significance may not be as important as one might think.
这已经是引起国际关注的突发公共卫生事件，人们必须重视起来，尽一切可能控制和减缓疫情的爆发。
This is already a public health emergency of international concern, and attention must be focused on doing everything possible to contain and mitigate the outbreak.
《财经》：你如何评估卫生系统薄弱的国家所面临的风险？大卫·海曼：与卫生系统健全的国家相比，卫生系统薄弱的国家总是存在更大的传播风险。
Caijing: How do you assess the risks faced by countries with weak health systems? David Heyman: Countries with weak health systems are always at greater risk of transmission than countries with healthy health systems.
他们可能无法像其他国家那样能够尽量久地推迟病毒的蔓延或者阻止向社区的蔓延，但没人能预测到底会发生什么。
They may not be able to delay the spread of the virus or stop its spread to communities as long as other countries do, but no one can predict what will happen.
《财经》：如何看待死亡率在不同地区有所区别的原因？为何湖北省的死亡率高于其他省份，中国以外地区的死亡率远远低于中国境内？大卫·海曼：当医院缺乏足够的资源来收治病人时，死亡率通常就会更高。
Why is the mortality rate higher in Hubei province than in other provinces, and far lower than in China? David Hyman: When hospitals lack sufficient resources to treat patients, the mortality rate is usually higher.
在出现病人数量巨大，而医院无法接收所有病人的情况时，一些病人无法入院。
In cases where the number of patients is large and hospitals are unable to receive all patients, some patients cannot be admitted to hospitals.
而当他们病重到需要吸氧但却仍然缺乏就医途径时，他们的病情就进一步加重，并可能死去。
When they are so ill that they need oxygen but still lack access to a doctor, their condition worsens and they may die.
湖北省的医院超负荷运转，新建医院的举措值得赞扬。
Hospitals in Hubei Province are overloaded and the new hospitals are to be commended.
希望病人的数量能出现下降的趋势，这样病人都可以得到收治，而中国有能力提供优异的医疗护理。
Hopefully, there will be a downward trend in the number of patients so that patients can be treated and China can provide excellent medical care.
《财经》：你预计近期在疫苗和治疗方案上会有重要突破吗？大卫·海曼：据我了解，在今年年底或者明年年初之前都不会有疫苗获得上市许可。
Caijing: Do you expect a major breakthrough in vaccines and treatment regimens in the near future? David Heyman: I understand that no vaccine will be licensed before the end of this year or the beginning of next year.
现在正在对疫苗进行动物测试，之后还要研究是否对人类安全、有效，再取得上市许可。
Animal testing of the vaccine is now under way, followed by research on whether it is safe and effective for humans to obtain marketing approval.
这需要一些时间。
This will take some time.
我对治疗方案不太了解，我听说中国展开了多项试验，世卫组织也在与中方合作，看哪些药物能被证明为有效。
I don't know much about treatment options. I've heard that China has conducted many trials, and the WHO is working with China to see which drugs can prove effective.
《财经》：你在世卫组织工作的时候领导了全球抗击非典的努力，你认为我们从应对非典的过程中吸取了哪些经验教训？大卫·海曼：最重要的是保持开放。
Caijing: When you led the global fight against SARS when you worked for the WHO, what lessons do you think we have learned from dealing with SARS? David Heyman: The most important thing is to stay open.
中国也正在这么做，他们与其他受影响的国家直接分享了数据。
China is doing the same, sharing data directly with other affected countries.
在七、八个星期的时间里我们对病毒的了解已经非常充分了，这归功于国际协作和分享信息。
In seven or eight weeks, we have learned enough about the virus, thanks to international collaboration and information-sharing.
中国一直在定期分享数据。
China has been sharing data regularly.
《财经》：对于因为病毒蔓延而产生的种族歧视问题，你认为应该采取哪些举措来避免？大卫·海曼：每个人都要明白这是他们的责任，无论是保护自己还是保护他人。
Caijing: What do you think should be done to avoid the problem of racial discrimination caused by the spread of the virus? David Heyman: Everyone needs to understand that it's their responsibility to protect themselves and others.
如果他们明白这点，他们也应该明白歧视并不起作用，真正起作用的是让自己具备能力，帮助阻止其他人染病，同时通过勤洗手、避开接触受感染的人等恰当的方式来保护自己。
If they understand this, they should also understand that discrimination does not work. What really matters is empowering themselves to help stop others from getting sick, while protecting themselves by washing their hands regularly and avoiding contact with infected people.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click Here for more information about the epidemic:: Archives & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and may not be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
专访世卫前负责人海曼：抗疫关键是开放，中国一直分享数据。
Interview with former WHO official Hyman: The key to fighting the epidemic is openness, and China has been sharing data.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "专访世卫前负责人海曼：抗疫关键是开放，中国一直分享数据";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Interview with former WHO official Hyman: The key to fighting the epidemic is openness, and China has always shared data and quot;;;
var msg_desc = "中国停止武汉的航班，延迟了病毒蔓延到其他国家的步伐。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; China's suspension of flights to Wuhan delayed the spread of the virus to other countries.
在七、八个星期的时间里，我们对病毒的了解已经非常充分，这";。
In seven or eight weeks, we knew enough about the virus, and that's & quot;;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
