黄某刑满释放感染肺炎离汉进京始末，湖北北京查处16人。
Huang released infected pneumonia from Han into the beginning and end of Beijing, Hubei Province, 16 people investigated and punished.
《财经》综合报道。
Caijing comprehensive report.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
联合调查组认为，“黄某英事件”虽然发生在武汉女子监狱，但根源在湖北省司法厅和湖北省监狱局《财经》综合报道仅用5天时间，感染新冠肺炎的刑满释放人员黄某英，如何在层层封锁之下从武汉回到北京？3月2日，司法部牵头，会同中央政法委、最高人民检察院、公安部组成的中央联合调查组公布了事件调查结果，认为“黄某英事件”是一起因失职渎职导致的严重事件，性质恶劣，影响极坏，给首都疫情防控工作带来极大隐患。
The Joint Investigation Group believes that although the incident occurred in Wuhan women's prison, it took only five days for former prisoners with new crown pneumonia to return to Beijing from Wuhan.
据人民日报报道，经湖北省纪委监委研究并报省委批准，决定对负有主要领导责任的省司法厅党委书记、厅长谭先振等9人予以立案审查调查。
According to the People's Daily, nine people, including the secretary and director of the provincial judicial department, Tan Xianzhen, who had the major leadership responsibility, were investigated and investigated by the provincial disciplinary committee after studying them and submitting them to the provincial committee for approval.
在北京召开的新型肺炎疫情防控发布会上，北京市纪委监委相关负责人介绍，在黄某英进京过程中，进京检查站、小区物业、市疾控中心均存在疏漏，并作出相应处罚决定。
At a news conference on the prevention and control of the new pneumonia epidemic in Beijing, the relevant officials of the Beijing Municipal Disciplinary Committee said that in the course of Huang's entry into Beijing, there were omissions at checkpoints, residential properties and city CDC, and made corresponding punishment decisions.
北京市公安局相关负责人表示，目前针对黄某英事件是否涉及违法犯罪一事，东城公安分局正在开展调查。
Beijing Public Security Bureau said that the current incident against whether the incident involving criminal offences, Dongcheng Public Security Bureau is under investigation.
根据公开报道，2月26日，经中央政法委批准、由司法部牵头，会同中央政法委、最高人民检察院、公安部组成联合调查组，于2月27日赶赴湖北，在湖北省调查组的密切配合下，就武汉女子监狱刑满释放人员黄某英感染新冠肺炎离汉进京事件进行了调查。
According to public reports, on February 26, a joint investigation team led by the Ministry of Justice and approved by the CPPCC, together with the CPSC, the Supreme People's Procuratorate and the Ministry of Public Security, travelled to Hubei province on 27 February to investigate the case of Huang Mengying, a former female prisoner in Wuhan Women's Prison.
央视相关报道称，联合调查组到达湖北后，立即严格依法依规依纪开展调查核实工作，对接湖北省委、省纪委监委，与湖北省司法厅、监狱局负责同志个别谈话，深入武汉女子监狱和武汉市区有关卡点调查询问，收集资料，固化证据，查清了黄某英事件经过。
CCTV reported that immediately after its arrival in Hubei province, the joint investigation team immediately conducted investigation and verification in accordance with the rules and regulations, docked the Hubei Provincial Party Committee and the Provincial Disciplinary Committee and held individual talks with leading officials of the Hubei Provincial Judicial Bureau and the Prison Bureau.
联合调查组认为，对于黄某英事件，湖北省司法厅负领导责任，省监狱局负主要责任，武汉女子监狱负直接责任，武汉市东西湖区公安分局履行查控职责不到位，应依法依规依纪严肃追究相关人员责任。
The Joint Investigation Team believes that the leading responsibility for the incident lies with the Hubei Provincial Bureau of Justice, the Provincial Prison Bureau is directly responsible, Wuhan Women's Prison is directly responsible and Wuhan East and West Lake Public Security Bureau is not in place to carry out the investigation and control responsibilities.
据央视报道，联合调查组将调查发现问题转湖北省有关方面依法依规依纪处理，并提出了初步处理建议。
According to CCTV, the joint investigation team referred the matter to the relevant authorities in Hubei province in accordance with the rules and regulations, and made preliminary recommendations for handling the issue.
——湖北省司法厅领导不力，政治意识、责任意识淡薄。
The administration of justice in Hubei Province suffered from weak leadership and weak sense of political awareness and responsibility.
对党中央决策部署理解不深不透，对省监狱局的管理流于形式。
To the party central decision-making deployment not deep impenetrable, to the provincial prison bureau management is mere formality.
没有对省监狱局所发文件进行严格审核把关即将其呈报省委政法委审批，且在省委有关领导作出明确批示后，仍未及时纠正省监狱局错误，导致湖北省监狱系统政策执行出现严重问题，与湖北省乃至全国疫情防控措施背道而驰。
The documents issued by the provincial prison bureau have not been strictly checked and submitted to the provincial political and legal committee for approval, and the mistakes of the provincial prison bureau have not been corrected in time after clear instructions from the provincial Party committee leaders concerned. This has led to serious problems in the implementation of prison system policies in Hubei Province.
——湖北省监狱局管理不力，政治意识、大局意识、法治意识严重缺失。
- The administration of the Hubei Provincial Prison Bureau was weak, and political consciousness, general awareness and sense of rule of law were seriously lacking.
对党中央决策部署、湖北省委省政府防控举措和司法部的明确要求选择性执行，毫无大局观念，没有自觉把监狱防疫纳入国家防疫工作大局，无视湖北省委有关领导批示要求和司法部的明确规定，导致上级相关工作要求没有贯彻落实。
The decision-making and deployment of the CPC Central Committee, the measures taken by the provincial government of Hubei Province and the explicit request of the Ministry of Justice were implemented selectively.
——武汉女子监狱工作不力，内部管理、制度执行混乱。
· Wuhan women's prison is not working well, and its internal management and system are in confusion.
武汉女子监狱在明知黄某英系密切接触者并出现体温异常的状态下，没有落实司法部关于发热1小时必须报告和严格执行14天隔离的制度，仍与黄某英在京亲属联系，并用警车将黄送至城外高速路口，导致其进入北京，造成疫情在北京扩散的极大风险。
Wuhan women's prison, knowing that Huang had close contacts and had abnormal body temperature, failed to implement the Ministry of Justice's system of reporting fever for one hour and strictly enforcing 14-day isolation.
——武汉市东西湖区公安分局管控不力，工作态度、纪律作风不实。
-- The East and West Lake District Public Security Bureau in Wuhan City is poorly controlled.
公安分局对负责卡口管控的干警教育不够、要求不严，督促检查不到位，导致干警工作懈怠，麻痹大意，对车辆和人员出入武汉核查不严。
Public Security Bureau is responsible for the control of the entrance of the dry police education, lax requirements, supervision and inspection not in place, resulting in slack work, insensitive, vehicles and personnel to and from Wuhan inspection lax.
北京市纪委监委相关负责人在3月2日的发布会上也对相关部门和单位作出了相应的处罚决定。
At a press conference on March 2, the relevant officials of the Beijing Municipal Disciplinary Committee made corresponding punishment decisions to the departments and units concerned.
——北京市公安局大兴分局求贤检查站在疫情防控检查工作中存在工作疏漏，值班辅警工作不认真，履职不到位，导致黄某英顺利进京和杨某某、覃某顺利返京，求贤检查站站长刘杰、政委李樾负重要领导责任；求贤检查站副站长王志海作为当班领导，并负责处置岗工作，对工作不认真细致，应负主要领导责任；求贤检查站辅警王辉工作不认真、履职不到位，是黄某英顺利进京和杨某某、覃某顺利返京的直接责任人。
-- Beijing Public Security Bureau, Daxing Station Xixian Checkpoint in the work of disease prevention and control inspection, the work of the auxiliary police on duty is not serious, not in place, resulting in Huangmoxian station commander Liu Jie, political commissar Li Yue, deputy station commander of Qixian Checkpoint.
决定由市公安局党委对大兴分局党委予以通报问责，对王志海予以免职，给予刘杰记过处分，对李樾予以诫勉，对王辉按照相关规定予以解聘。
The party committee of the municipal public security bureau decided to inform the party committee of Daxing Sub-bureau of accountability, dismiss Wang Zhihai, punish Liu Jie, exhort Li Yue and dismiss Wang Hui in accordance with the relevant regulations.
——东城区崇文门外街道办事处及新怡家园社区在疫情防控工作中承担属地责任，督促物业公司整改不到位，导致社区防控工作出现漏洞。
-- Dongcheng Chongwen men Street Office and Xinyi Jiayuan community in the work of prevention and control of the epidemic assume territorial responsibilities, property companies urged to rectify not in place, resulting in loopholes in community prevention and control.
决定由东城区委对崇文门外街道党工委予以通报问责，给予新怡家园社区党总支书记张帆党内警告处分。
The decision by the Dongcheng District Committee on the Chongwen Men street party committee to inform accountability, Xinyi home community party secretary Zhang Fan party warning sanctions.
——北京市疾控中心接线人员在2月19日时仍然答复杨某某武汉人员可以进京，该答复口径与北京新冠肺炎疫情防控工作领导小组的部署要求不一致，对此次事件产生严重负面影响。
-- Beijing CDC wiring staff on Feb. 19 still replied that Wuhan personnel could enter Beijing, a response that is inconsistent with the deployment requirements of the Beijing Leading Group for the Prevention and Control of New Crown Pneumonia, and has had a serious negative impact on the incident.
决定由市卫健委党委对北京市疾控中心办公室主任于建平诫勉，给予北京市疾控中心办公室副主任钱海坤警告处分，责成北京市疾控中心加强整改，切实把北京新冠肺炎疫情防控工作领导小组的部署及时传达至基层一线。
The decision by the municipal health committee of the Beijing CDC Office director Yu Jianping, Beijing CDC Office Deputy Director Qian Haikun warning sanctions, Beijing CDC to strengthen the rectification, the Beijing CDC, the deployment of the Beijing New Crown Pneumonia Prevention and Control Work to the grassroots level in a timely manner.
——北京新世界物业管理有限公司未能按照“四方责任”落实单位责任，导致黄某英顺利进入小区。
-- Beijing New World Property Management Co. Ltd. failed to carry out unit responsibilities in accordance with the "quadripartite responsibility," resulting in the smooth entry of Huang Mou into the community.
决定对北京新世界物业管理有限公司通报曝光，约谈该公司主要负责人，同时由东城区政府依法依规对其进行处罚。
The decision to Beijing New World Property Management Co. Ltd. to report to the public, interview the company's main officials, and the Dongcheng City government in accordance with the rules of their punishment.
“黄某英事件”教训十分深刻。
The lesson of "Huang Mingying Incident" is very profound.
司法部1月30日就刑释人员安置工作印发紧急通知，明确规定监狱应告知罪犯疫情现状和防疫要求，并通过罪犯户籍地司法局做好家属工作，劝导罪犯服从防疫安排；对隔离观察期间刑满的人员，监狱在办理释放手续后，应将其安置在监管区域外继续隔离观察。
On 30 January, the Ministry of Justice issued an emergency circular on the placement of released prisoners, specifying that prisons should inform criminals of the epidemic situation and the requirements for epidemic prevention and, through the judicial bureau of the place of residence of criminals, advise prisoners to obey epidemic prevention arrangements.
但这些措施没有得到严格落实，导致刑释人员带病毒出监，严重影响了整个疫情防控大局。
However, these measures have not been strictly implemented, resulting in the release of released persons with the virus, seriously affected the overall situation of disease prevention and control.
为此，司法部进一步严格措施，先后派出28个督导组，对全国各地监狱戒毒场所防疫措施落实、刑释人员安置情况开展督导。
To this end, the Ministry of Justice has further tightened its measures by dispatching 28 supervisory groups to supervise the implementation of anti-drug prophylaxis measures and the placement of released persons in prisons across the country.
部领导每日通过视频调度检查各地监所疫情防控外防输入、内防扩散、外防输出工作落实情况。
The head of the Ministry inspects daily the implementation of the work of preventing and controlling the epidemic situation in prisons through video surveillance, internal non-proliferation and external defense export.
各地切实引以为戒，扎实落实措施，坚决堵住监所疫情外防输出的漏洞，对所有罪犯在刑满释放前都进行14天隔离观察。
All regions have taken concrete measures to close the loopholes in the export of epidemic prevention in prisons and ensure that all criminals are placed under quarantine for 14 days before they are released from prison.
对距刑满不足14天的，在依法办理刑满释放手续后，沟通协调有关部门将其安排在特定场所继续隔离观察，直至满14天为止。
For those who are less than 14 days away from the completion of their sentence, the relevant departments of communication and coordination arrange for them to remain in quarantine in a specific place until the end of the 14-day period.
对湖北省各监狱、山东省济宁市域内监狱、浙江省衢州市域内监狱刑满人员，在依法办理释放手续后，协调有关部门一律安排在特定场所隔离至疫情结束。
After going through the procedures for release according to law, the coordinating departments concerned will arrange to isolate the prisoners in specific places until the end of the epidemic situation.
对户籍地为北京的刑满释放人员，无缝对接监狱所在地安置帮教部门，一律在当地临时安置至疫情结束，严防疫情输入北京。
For ex-prisoners whose place of residence is Beijing, they seamlessly dock with the local resettlement and education departments until the end of the epidemic situation and strictly prevent the disease from entering Beijing.
以下为黄某英“离汉抵京”事件始末（据中央电视台3月2日消息）今年61岁的黄某英，女，湖北省恩施土家族自治州宣恩县人，原系湖北省宣恩县水利水产局财务股副股长兼出纳。
Huang Yingying, 61, a woman from Xuann county, an autonomous prefecture of Enshi Tujia, Hubei province, was a deputy director and cashier of the financial unit of Shann county water conservancy and water conservancy bureau of Hubei province.
2014年2月18日因犯贪污罪，被恩施土家族苗族自治州中级人民法院判处有期徒刑10年，服刑期间，两次减刑共14个月。
On 18 February 2014, he was sentenced by the Enshi Miao Intermediate People's Court to 10 years' imprisonment and two 14-month commutations of sentence for corruption offences.
刑期自2011年4月18日起至2020年2月17日止。
The sentence runs from 18 April 2011 to 17 February 2020.
2月17日之前，新冠肺炎已经在湖北暴发，黄某英居住湖北恩施的弟弟、居住北京的女儿与监狱联系黄某英刑满释放事宜，他们均表示由于交通管制等原因，不能来武汉接黄回家。
Before Feb. 17, the outbreak of new crown pneumonia in Hubei Province, Hubei Enshi's younger brother, daughter living in Beijing, and prison contact Huang Mou-ying released from prison, who said they could not come to Wuhan to receive Huang because of traffic control problems.
因黄某英服刑的监区有干警确诊为新冠肺炎或疑似病例，黄属于密切接触人员。
Huang is in close contact with the police in the section of the prison where Huang is serving his sentence.
2月17日，黄某英刑满释放后，留在武汉女子监狱隔离观察。
February 17, after the release of Huang Ying, stay in Wuhan women's prison isolation observation.
2月17日至2月21日上午，监狱为黄某英测量体温13次，其中2月18日、2月19日两次体温为37.3°C。
From 17 February to the morning of 21 February, the prison took 13 body temperature tests for Huang, including 37.3 ° C on 18 February and 19 February.
其间，黄某英再三找干警，要求回家。
In the meantime, Huang Mou Ying calls dry police repeatedly, asks to go home.
干警与其女儿联系，其女儿表示想办法解决。
The sheriff contacted his daughter, who said she wanted to work it out.
后干警与其女儿前夫约定于2月21日上午，由监狱将黄某英送至武汉北高速收费站口交其接走。
The back-up police and her daughter's ex-husband agreed on February 21 morning, the prison will send Huang Mou to Wuhan North Expressway toll station to pick him up orally.
2月21日早上，干警将隔离观察的黄某英带到监狱门口，对其宣讲有关防疫规定，并要求其写下出狱后居家隔离14天的保证书。
On the morning of 21 February, gendarmes took Huang, who was under quarantine, to the gate of the prison, where he was told about the rules on vaccination and asked to write a pledge that he would remain in quarantine for 14 days after his release.
干警将黄带出监狱，乘鄂牌依维柯警车到武汉北高速收费站外广场，步行将黄送至卡口。
Dry police will take Huang out of the prison, EB Evico police car to Wuhan North Expressway toll station outside the square, Huang will walk to card.
当时，同车还有一名孝感籍刑满释放人员李某，也在该收费站交给其儿子带回孝感，目前李某及其密切接触者共4人，均在当地指定地点隔离。
At that time, there was also a filial sense of duty released from prison Li Mou, also gave his son back at the toll station to bring back filial piety, Li and his close contacts a total of four people, all in the designated local location isolation.
此前，黄某英家属已与卡口执勤公安干警说明来意，在卡口外等候。
Earlier, Huang Mou British family has been on duty with the police officer on duty to come to Italy, waiting outside the checkpoint.
当时执勤的武汉市东西湖区公安分局长青街派出所公安干警未按要求对黄某英履行查控职责，将其放行。
Wuhan Dongxi Lake Public Security Station on duty at that time Changqing Street Police Station Public Security Police did not fulfill the required inspection and control of Huang Ying, let them go.
黄某英和女儿及其女儿前夫驾乘京牌私家车，于2月21日11时30分进入京港澳高速，2月22日凌晨到达北京，24日黄某英被确诊为新冠肺炎。
On February 21, at 11.30 a.m., he entered the Beijing-Macao Expressway. He arrived in Beijing in the early hours of February 22. He was diagnosed with pneumonia on February 24.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click Here for more information about the epidemic:: Archives & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and may not be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
黄某刑满释放感染肺炎离汉进京始末，湖北北京查处16人。
Huang released infected pneumonia from Han into the beginning and end of Beijing, Hubei Province, 16 people investigated and punished.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "黄某刑满释放感染肺炎离汉进京始末，湖北北京查处16人";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "联合调查组认为，“黄某英事件”虽然发生在武汉女子监狱，但根源在湖北省司法厅和湖北省监狱局";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
