​疫情意外催化消费零售变革。
The disease accidentally catalyzes retail changes in consumption.
周景彤 叶银丹。
Chow Jingtong Ye Yindan.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
疫情对经济带来负面影响的同时，也促使相关行业加速升级。
While the epidemic has had a negative impact on the economy, it has also accelerated the upgrading of related industries.
此次疫情或成零售行业进化和变革的“催化剂”，加快新零售模式崛起2月14日，武汉武昌区街头的蔬果店。
The outbreak may have been a catalyst for evolution and change in the retail sector, accelerating the rise of a new retail model February 14, Wuhan Wuchang District, the street greengrocer.
摄影／《财经》记者 王小文 | 周景彤 叶银丹2019年12月底开始爆发的新冠肺炎疫情，将对中国经济带来较大的短期冲击。
Photo / Caijing Wang & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
由于疫情爆发正值春节消费旺季，较之于投资和出口，本次疫情对短期消费的影响将更大。
Since the outbreak coincided with the Spring Festival consumption season, the epidemic will have a greater impact on short-term consumption than investment and exports.
但疫情对消费的影响“危”与“机”并存。
But the epidemic's impact on consumption is both "perilous" and "opportunistic."
短期来看，疫情将会对各类消费产生结构性冲击，消费增速明显下降；但疫情消退后，预计消费将较快反弹并回归正常增速。
In the short term, the epidemic will have a structural impact on consumption across the board, with consumption growth declining markedly; but consumption is expected to rebound relatively quickly and return to normal growth after the epidemic subsides.
从中长期来看，疫情将推动中国居民消费行为变化和刺激新消费增长点，加速无人零售、生鲜电商等新零售浪潮的到来。
In the medium to long term, the epidemic will drive changes in Chinese consumer behavior and stimulate new consumption growth points, accelerating the arrival of new retail wave such as unsold, live electricity businesses.
我们建议，银行业短期内，敏捷反应，服务于国家防控疫情和经济社会秩序恢复大局，加强对中小企业尤其是消费行业中小企业，以及防疫相关企业和人员的金融支持保障力度；中长期，抓住本次疫情危机可能酝酿的消费零售行业变革，提前布局。
We propose that the banking sector, in the short term, respond quickly and serve the overall interests of national prevention and control of the epidemic and the recovery of economic and social order, strengthen financial support to small and medium-sized enterprises, especially in the consumer sector, and enterprises and personnel concerned with epidemic prevention.
本次疫情对消费的冲击远大于非典疫情爆发时间为消费旺季，且疫情蔓延范围更大，防控措施更强。
The impact of the epidemic on consumption is far greater than the outbreak of SARS outbreak as the peak consumption season, and the spread of the epidemic is wider, stronger prevention and control measures.
从疫情影响时间上来看，本次新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情主要集中于2020年一季度，正值春节、元宵等传统消费旺季，因此对消费冲击较大；而2003年非典爆发时间为春季，对消费的影响相对较小。
In terms of the timing of the outbreak, the new coronavirus pneumonia is mainly concentrated in the first quarter of 2020, which coincides with the traditional consumption season such as the Spring Festival and the Lantern Festival, and thus has a greater impact on consumption.
从疫情感染人数和蔓延范围来看，本次疫情受感染人数远超非典，截至2020年2月12日，全国确诊病例为59741例，而非典确诊人数截至2003年8月16日仅为5327例。
In terms of the number and spread of the epidemic, the number of people infected with the epidemic far exceeded that of SARS, with 59741 confirmed cases nationwide as at 12 February 2020, compared with 5,327 cases diagnosed as at 16 August 2003.
此外，本次疫情蔓延的范围也大于非典。
In addition, the spread of the epidemic is larger than SARS.
非典主要爆发于广东省和北京市，对全国其他地区的生产经营和生活影响较小；而本次疫情不仅疫情爆发地湖北省受灾特别严重外，全国绝大部分地区均受灾较重（西藏、新疆、青海、甘肃、内蒙古等地相对较轻）。
The outbreak of SARS mainly occurred in Guangdong Province and Beijing, with little impact on production, management and livelihood in the rest of the country.Besides the fact that Hubei Province, the epicenter of the outbreak, was particularly hard hit, most parts of the country (Tibet, Xinjiang, Qinghai, Gansu and Inner Mongolia were relatively light).
从疫情的防控措施来看，非典时期，仅疫情中心广东省和北京市采取了较为严格的防控措施，其他地区的生产经营、教学、生活等活动并未大范围受影响。
As far as the prevention and control measures are concerned, only Guangdong and Beijing, the epicentre of the SARS epidemic, have taken more stringent measures to prevent and control the disease.
而本次疫情恰逢春运人口大流动时期，为防止疫情叠加春运造成失控，各地均采取了封路、关停店铺工厂、延迟开业开工、封闭式管理小区等非常强硬的防控措施。
In order to prevent the epidemic from getting out of control by the superimposition of spring transportation, local governments have taken strong measures to close roads, close shops and factories, delay the opening of shops and close down small areas.
这些强硬措施在有力阻断病毒传播途径的同时，也对消费造成巨大打击。
These tough measures not only effectively block the transmission of the virus, but also have a huge impact on consumption.
当前中国消费结构中受疫情影响更大的服务消费和可选消费占比更高。
Service consumption and optional consumption, which are more affected by the epidemic in China's current consumption structure, account for a higher proportion.
较之于2003年非典时期，当前中国居民收入水平显著提高，恩格尔系数明显降低。
Compared with the SARS period in 2003, the current income level of Chinese residents has increased significantly, and the Engel coefficient has decreased significantly.
全国城镇居民人均可支配收入由2003年的8472元增加到2019年的42359元。
The per capita disposable income of urban residents increased from 8,472 yuan in 2003 to 42,359 yuan in 2019.
全国城镇居民家庭的恩格尔系数（食品支出占家庭总消费支出比重）和农村居民家庭恩格尔系数分别由2003年的37％和46％下降至2019年的28％和30％。
The Engel's coefficient (food expenditure as a proportion of total household consumption expenditure) and that of rural households dropped from 37 and 46 per cent, respectively, in 2003 to 28 and 30 per cent in 2019.
全国居民消费结构明显升级，服务类、可选类消费占比显著提高。
The consumption structure of the whole country has been remarkably upgraded, and the consumption of service and optional categories has increased remarkably.
随着收入的不断提高，中国居民消费正在由原来的“温饱型”转向“小康型”。
With the continuous improvement of income, the consumption of Chinese residents is changing from "subsistence" to "well-off."
一是可选消费比重大幅提高。
First, the share of optional consumption has increased significantly.
对比2003年和2019年社会消费品零售总额的结构发现，2019年居民消费中的必选消费占比由2003年的31％下降至22％，可选消费占比显著提高，例如汽车相关消费占比由2003年的25％提高至2019年的40％（表1）。
Comparing the structure of total retail sales of consumer goods in 2003 and 2019, it was found that the proportion of mandatory consumption in 2019 decreased from 31 per cent in 2003 to 22 per cent, and that the proportion of optional consumption, for example, increased from 25 per cent in 2003 to 40 per cent in 2019 (table 1).
二是服务消费比重持续提高，形成服务消费和商品消费双轮驱动的格局。
Second, the proportion of service consumption continues to increase, forming a pattern of service consumption and commodity consumption.
2019年全国居民人均消费支出中，服务消费支出占比为45.9％，比上年提高1.7个百分点。
In 2019, the service consumption expenditure as a percentage of per capita consumption expenditure was 45.9 percent, an increase of 1.7 percentage points over the previous year.
可选消费、服务消费受疫情影响更大。
Optional consumption and service consumption are more affected by the epidemic.
当疫情冲击来临，消费不可避免地减少时，米面粮油等必选消费相对稳定，而汽车、旅游等可选消费将受到更大冲击。
When the impact of the epidemic, the inevitable reduction in consumption, rice flour and oil and other essential consumption is relatively stable, and cars, tourism and other optional consumption will be more affected.
此外，服务消费多为非必需品且多依赖于面对面提供、即时发生，因而较之于商品消费，受疫情冲击更加严重。
In addition, service consumption, which is mostly non-essential and largely face-to-face and instantaneous, is more severely impacted by the epidemic than commodity consumption.
据此判断，本次疫情对消费的冲击将大于非典时期。
Judging from this, the impact of the epidemic on consumption will be greater than the SARS period.
未来消费将出现较强反弹短期疫情对各类消费结构性冲击明显，预计消费增速将大幅下降。
Future consumption will have a strong rebound short-term epidemic of various consumption structural shocks obvious consumption growth is expected to decline significantly.
非典疫情在其峰值期间（5月）造成当月消费增速下降5个百分点至4.3％。
During its peak period (May), the SARS epidemic reduced consumption growth by 5 percentage points to 4.3 per cent in the same month.
预计本次疫情对消费的冲击将大于非典时期。
The epidemic is expected to have a greater impact on consumption than SARS.
预计2020年1月－2月消费将降至3％左右，后期消费增速恢复时间取决于疫情控制情况。
Consumption is expected to fall to about 3 per cent between January and February 2020, with a recovery in consumption in the latter part depending on epidemic control.
但疫情对消费的影响将是短期的、结构性的（表2）。
But the epidemic's impact on consumption will be short-term and structural (table 2).
一是疫情对必需品消费的影响小于对非必需品消费的影响。
First, the epidemic has less impact on the consumption of essential goods than on the consumption of non-essential items.
二是疫情对时间可选型非必需品消费的影响小于对时间不可选型非必需品消费的影响。
Second, the epidemic has less impact on the consumption of non-essentials of optional time than on the consumption of non-essentials.
以旅游消费和办公用品消费为例，人们因疫情推迟的旅游消费需求将在疫情结束后得到释放，因此疫情对全年旅游消费的影响相对较小；但人们因疫情减少的办公用品消费，较难在疫情结束后回补，因此这部分消费就失去了。
In the case of tourism consumption and the consumption of office supplies, the impact of the epidemic on annual tourism consumption will be relatively small as demand for tourism consumption delayed by the epidemic will be released after the epidemic ends; however, it will be more difficult to recover after the epidemic ends because of reduced consumption of office supplies.
三是疫情对线上替代性较强消费的影响小于对线上替代性较弱消费的影响。
Third, the epidemic has less effect on the on-line substitution consumption than on-line substitution weak consumption.
例如主题公园等休闲娱乐消费难以进行线上替代，消费损失较多；服装鞋帽购物等消费易进行线上替代，影响相对较小。
For example, leisure and entertainment consumption such as theme parks is difficult to replace online, more consumption losses; clothing, shoes and hats shopping and other consumer easy online replacement, the impact is relatively small.
未来各类消费增速的恢复性增长可期。
Future growth rate of the recovery of all types of consumption.
疫情期间被抑制的部分消费需求并未消失而只是延后。
Some of the pent-up consumer demand during the epidemic has not disappeared but has only been delayed.
因疫情防控的需要，居民减少外出大幅抑制其当前的消费需求，这部分被抑制的消费需求有望在疫情结束后得到有效释放。
As the need for disease prevention and control, residents to reduce travel to significantly curb their current consumer demand, which is expected to be suppressed after the end of the epidemic effectively released.
以非典为例，2003年7月疫情消退后，前期被抑制的消费需求大量释放，其中，零售品消费中回落幅度较大的服装鞋帽、针纺织品类，体育、娱乐用品类，文化办公用品类等都恢复至疫情前甚至更高水平。
In the case of SARS, after the epidemic subsided in July 2003, much of the restrained consumer demand in the earlier period was released. Among them, clothing shoes and hats, knitted fabrics, sports and entertainment items, and cultural office supplies, all of which fell back to pre-epidemic levels and even higher levels.
政府多措并举为消费行业企业纾困，预计疫情结束后供给端将较快恢复，使消费需求得到较好满足。
The government has taken a number of measures to bail out companies in the consumer sector, which is expected to recover relatively quickly after the end of the epidemic, allowing consumer demand to be better met.
疫情发生以来，中央和各地纷纷出台各类措施，缓解中小企业、尤其是受疫情重创的消费行业中小企业的资金压力，帮助中小企业渡过难关。
Since the outbreak, various measures have been put in place at the central and local levels to ease the financial pressure on small and medium-sized enterprises, especially those in the consumer sector, which has been hard hit by the epidemic, and to help them tide over the difficulties.
例如，2月12日召开的中央政治局常委会就明确提出要“完善支持中小微企业的财税、金融、社保等政策”。
For example, the Standing Committee of the Politburo on February 12 explicitly called for "improving the fiscal, financial, and social security policies that support MSMEs."
2月11日召开的国务院常务会议要求“各地各部门要建立企业应对疫情专项帮扶机制，纾解企业特别是民营、小微企业困难”。
The executive meeting of the State Council on February 11 called on all departments to set up special support mechanisms for enterprises to deal with the epidemic and to ease difficulties for enterprises, especially private enterprises and micro and small enterprises.
银保监会要求各银行保险机构，对于受疫情影响较大的批发零售、住宿餐饮、物流运输、文化旅游等行业，以及有发展前景但暂时受困的企业，不盲目抽贷、断贷、压贷；并鼓励通过适当下调贷款利率、完善续贷政策安排、增加信用贷款和中长期贷款等方式，支持相关企业渡过难关。
The CBRC requires banking insurance institutions to support enterprises in wholesale, retail, accommodation, logistics and cultural tourism industries, as well as enterprises with development prospects but temporarily in trouble, not to blindly draw loans, stop lending or depress loans; and encourage relevant enterprises to tide over difficulties by appropriately lowering loan interest rates, improving loan renewal policy arrangements and increasing credit loans and medium- and long-term loans.
各类纾困措施的落地和实施将较好地保护消费行业企业有生力量，待疫情消退后，使得供给端较快恢复，有效满足疫情过后反弹的消费需求。
The landing and implementation of various relief measures will better protect the effective force of the consumer industry enterprises, after the epidemic subsided, so that the supply side recovery faster, effectively meet the post-epidemic rebound in consumer demand.
受疫情重创的餐饮和旅游等消费将在疫情结束后出现明显反弹。
Consumption, such as food and tourism, which have been hit hard by the epidemic, will bounce back significantly after the epidemic ends.
从近几年的消费需求看，外出就餐和旅游已成为很多人的日常生活方式。
Judging from the consumer demand in recent years, eating out and traveling have become the daily life of many people.
2019年，全国餐饮收入46721亿元，比上年增长9.4％；国内旅游人数将超过60亿人次，比上年增长5亿人次左右。
In 2019, China's catering revenue will reach 467.21 billion yuan, 9.4 percent more than the previous year, and the number of domestic tourists will exceed 6 billion, an increase of about 500 million over the previous year.
春节通常是人们释放旅行和餐饮消费需求的重点时段，而2020年春节由于疫情防控需要封闭在家，旅游和外出就餐的消费需求无法实现，反而进一步刺激了人们的消费欲望。
The Lunar New Year is often a time to release travel and food consumption needs, while the 2020 Lunar New Year holiday will further stimulate people's desire to consume because of the need to stay at home due to the epidemic prevention and control.
疫情结束以后，相关消费需求将呈现报复性反弹。
After the end of the epidemic, related consumer demand will show a retaliatory rebound.
餐饮消费方面，预计疫情结束后的1个－2个月时间内将出现小高峰，而后转为9％－10％左右的正常增速。
With regard to catering consumption, a small peak is expected to occur within one to two months of the end of the epidemic, followed by a normal growth rate of around 9 to 10 per cent.
旅游消费方面，2020年“五一”“端午”和暑期将成为释放疫情累积的旅游消费需求的重点时段，有望出现旅游小高峰。
With regard to tourism consumption, the May Day, Dragon Boat and summer holidays in 2020 will be the key periods for releasing the tourism consumption demand accumulated by the epidemic.
此后的“十一”黄金周，旅游消费将会恢复到正常增长区间。
After the "11" Golden Week, tourism consumption will return to the normal growth range.
疫情催生“宅经济”从历史来看，疫情对经济带来负面影响的同时，也往往促使相关行业加速升级。
Historically, the epidemic has had a negative impact on the economy, but it has also tended to accelerate the upgrading of related industries.
例如，1928年美国金融危机，催生了连锁超市；2003年非典疫情，诞生了阿里巴巴等一批线上零售巨头企业。
The 1928 US financial crisis, for example, spawned supermarket chains, and the 2003 SARS epidemic gave birth to a number of online retail giants such as Alibaba.
此次疫情也是“危”中藏“机”，疫情或成零售行业进化和变革的“催化剂”，加快新零售模式崛起，为消费零售带来新机遇。
The outbreak is also a "catalyst" for evolution and change in the "danger" Tibetan machine, epidemic or retail industry, accelerating the emergence of new retail models and opening up new opportunities for consumer retailing.
一是线上线下融合零售模式（O2O模式）成趋势。
One is the trend towards offline offline fusion retailing (O2O mode).
疫情期间，各大商超和便利店为减少人员不必要的接触，同时压缩供应和物流成本，都推出了预约制到店自提、无接触配送到家等新模式，并大获成功。
In order to reduce unnecessary staff contact and reduce the cost of supply and logistics, the major shops and convenience stores have introduced new models such as appointment-to-store delivery and no-contact delivery home, with great success.
以苏宁菜场为例，疫情期间苏宁菜场的单店订单量环比增长7倍－10倍左右。
Take Suning vegetable farms as an example, during the outbreak of the Suning vegetable farms single-store order volume increased about 7-10 times.
未来随着线上直播、社群销售等模式的不断发展和成熟，O2O零售模式将成为实体零售行业新趋势。
In the future, with the development and maturity of online broadcasting, community sales, O2O retail model will become a new trend in the physical retail industry.
二是“无接触”概念下无人零售进程再提速。
Second, the concept of "no contact" no retail process to speed up.
近年来我国无人零售业务发展较快，无人售货机、无人便利店和无人超市等不断亮相。
In recent years, China's unattended retail business has developed rapidly, with unattended vending machines, convenience stores and supermarkets unattended.
但较之于发达国家，我国的无人零售还具有很大发展空间（表3）。
However, compared with the developed countries, there is a lot of room for unsold retail in China (Table 3).
本次疫情中“无接触”概念走红，我国无人零售进程再次提速，医院和疫情严重地区启用大量无人配送和无人超市。
In this epidemic, the concept of "no contact" has become popular, China's retail process has been accelerated once again, hospitals and epidemic-prone areas opened a large number of undistributed and unattended supermarkets.
例如，武汉火神山医院无人超市，部分其他医院配有机器人送物送餐；美团率先在武汉、北京两地试点运营“美团智能取餐柜”等。
For example, Wuhan Huoshen Mountain Hospital is unattended, and some other hospitals are equipped with robots to deliver food.
这些无人配送和无人零售实践既有助于积累技术经验，也有助于提高大众对无人零售的接受度，加快无人零售普及进程。
These undistributed and unretail practices have helped both to build up technical experience and to increase public acceptance of unsold retail and to accelerate the process of unattended retail penetration.
三是生鲜电商迎来新风口。
Third, fresh electricity business ushered in new air mouth.
疫情之前，大部分有过网购经验的消费者并没有线上购买生鲜食材的习惯，而在疫情倒逼下，生鲜电商成为城市人群的买菜首选。
Prior to the outbreak, most consumers who had experience with online purchasing did not buy raw materials online, and in the face of the epidemic, live electric merchants became the first choice for urban consumers.
例如每日优鲜在新年2020年前5天的生鲜在线订单是上年同期的4倍，春节7天假期期间，更是卖出了4000万件食品；京东生鲜在从2020年1月24日至2月2日10天期间，销量同比增长215％。
For example, daily fresh online orders for the first five days of the year were four times higher than in the previous year, and 40 million items were sold during the seven-day Spring Festival holiday.
疫情期间，14天的居家隔离时长不仅增强消费者对生鲜电商的信赖和认可，还有可能使消费者养成在线采购生鲜的消费习惯，未来生鲜电商发展可期。
During the epidemic, the 14-day isolation period will not only increase consumer trust and recognition of the live-TV business, but also help consumers develop the habit of purchasing fresh products online, which can be expected in the future.
建议商业银行短期内加强对中小企业尤其是消费行业中小企业，以及防疫相关企业和人员的金融支持保障力度，服务好国家疫情防控和经济社会秩序恢复大局。
It is suggested that commercial banks strengthen financial support to SMEs, especially those in the consumer industry, and enterprises and personnel concerned with epidemic prevention in the short term, so as to serve the overall interests of national epidemic prevention and control and economic and social order restoration.
中长期，建议抓住本次疫情危机酝酿的消费零售行业变革带来的机遇，提前布局。
Medium- and long-term, it is recommended to seize the opportunity of this epidemic crisis brewing consumer retail industry reform, ahead of schedule.
同时，要多措并举加强风险防范，牢牢守住不发生系统性金融风险底线。
At the same time, we should take more measures to strengthen risk prevention and firmly hold the bottom line of no systemic financial risks.
一是加大对受灾严重的餐饮、旅游、交通等行业的金融支持力度和灵活性。
The first is to increase financial support and flexibility for industries such as catering, tourism and transportation, which have suffered serious disasters.
一方面，根据中小企业实际能力和疫情带来的暂时困难，通过提高贷款额度、延长贷款期限、下调利率等措施助其渡过难关；另一方面，根据各企业具体情况，秉承“特事特办”原则，积极采取更多创新举措，量身打造综合金融服务方案，帮助企业恢复生产经营。
On the one hand, in light of the actual capacity of SMEs and the temporary difficulties caused by the epidemic, they will be helped to tide over difficulties by increasing their loan lines, extending their loan terms and lowering interest rates.
二是加大对防疫物资生产、民生保障等相关企业和防疫一线人员的金融保障力度。
Second, we will increase financial security for the production of epidemic prevention materials, livelihood security and other relevant enterprises and frontline epidemic prevention personnel.
一方面，通过提高贷款额度、提供专项贷款等方式加大对药品、医疗器材等防疫物资生产企业，以及物流运输、超市等民生保障企业的金融支持力度，助其尽快恢复和扩大产能，提高防疫物资供给和居民生活保障。
On the one hand, financial support for enterprises that produce drugs, medical equipment and other epidemic prevention materials, as well as livelihood security enterprises such as logistics and supermarkets, will be increased through raising loan lines and providing special loans to help them restore and expand their production capacity as soon as possible, and improve the supply of epidemic prevention materials and the livelihood of their residents.
另一方面，加大对防疫相关人员金融保障力度，例如对参加一线防疫工作的医护人员、民警、社区工作人员等提供免费不记名保险。
On the other hand, the financial security of personnel involved in epidemic prevention has been strengthened, such as providing anonymous insurance free of charge to medical personnel, civilian police and community workers engaged in frontline epidemic prevention work.
中长期抓住消费升级和零售变革机遇，提前布局。
Medium- and long-term consumption upgrading and retail reform opportunities, ahead of schedule.
一是加快升级型消费领域布局。
One is to speed up the layout of upgraded consumer areas.
通过与升级型消费领域领导企业建立合作等方式，积极布局旅游、医疗、养生等升级型消费领域，推出更加丰富的消费金融产品，为居民消费升级提供更好的金融支持。
Through cooperation with leading enterprises in the field of upgraded consumer products, we will actively distribute the areas of tourism, medical care, health care and other upgraded consumption areas, introduce more abundant consumer financial products, and provide better financial support for residents to upgrade their consumption.
二是加快线上线下场景渠道建设，打造新型互联网金融生态平台。
The second is to accelerate the construction of online offline scene channels to build a new ecological platform for Internet finance.
紧跟零售消费线上线下融合趋势，重点以App为线上主要场景平台，以支付和信贷为核心功能，不断丰富线下消费场景，完善金融功能。
In keeping with the trend of offline convergence of retail consumption line, this paper focuses on App as the main scene platform, with payment and credit as the core functions, constantly enrich the offline consumption scene and improve the financial function.
三是加强与大型电商企业的合作与开发。
Third, we will strengthen cooperation and development with large electrical enterprises.
积极与龙头电商企业建立长期战略合作伙伴关系，并不断拓展合作深度和广度，寻求商业模式、征信机制等多方面突破。
We will establish long-term strategic partnerships with leading electrical and commercial enterprises, constantly expand the scope and depth of cooperation, and seek breakthroughs in business models and credit investigation mechanisms.
四是聚焦金融科技，优化消费金融服务体验。
Fourth, focus on financial technology to optimize the experience of consumer financial services.
一方面，利用互联网技术突破地理限制的优势，更深层次地切入细分消费场景，提供嵌入式综合金融服务，实现客群、渠道、产品等多维度价值发掘与创造。
On the one hand, use Internet technology to break through the advantages of geographical limitation, cut deeper into the subdivision consumption scene, provide embedded comprehensive financial services, realize customer groups, channels, products and other multi-dimensional value discovery and creation.
另一方面，建立用户体验监测体系和反馈机制，获取用户直接反馈信息，不断优化客户消费金融服务体验。
On the other hand, the establishment of user experience monitoring system and feedback mechanism, to obtain direct feedback from users, continuously optimize the customer experience of consumer financial services.
（作者周景彤为中国银行研究院研究员，叶银丹为中国银行研究院博士后；编辑：王延春）▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
(Author Zhou Jingtong, a researcher at the Bank of China Graduate School; Ye Yindan, postdoctoral fellow at the Bank of China Graduate School; Editor: Wang Yanchun.) Click here to see more details about the outbreak at & nbsp; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article by Caijing magazine.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
​疫情意外催化消费零售变革。
The disease accidentally catalyzes retail changes in consumption.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "​疫情意外催化消费零售变革";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160;
var msg_desc = "疫情对经济带来负面影响的同时，也促使相关行业加速升级。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
此次疫情或成零售行业进化和变革的“催化剂”，加快新零售模式崛起";。
The outbreak may have been a catalyst for evolution and change in the retail sector, accelerating Rise & quot; s new retail model.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
