口罩日产量增长7.8倍背后：堵上心脏层喷熔布的缺口。
Mask output increased 7.8 times a day behind: plug the gap in the heart layer spray melting cloth.
张建锋  等。
Zhang Jianfeng etc.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
口罩产量的大幅增长，让此前处于小众需求的口罩“心脏”熔喷布，成为市场争相采购的对象。
Mask production growth, so that previously in the small demand for the "heart" Mask "heart", the market has become the object of competitive procurement.
该产品价格也从此前的2万元/吨，大幅飙升到现在的30万元/吨左右文 |《财经》记者 张建锋 杨秀红 王颖编辑 | 陆玲“此时，给你送口罩的才是真爱。
The price of the product has soared from 20,000 yuan a tonne to about 300,000 yuan a ton today; Caijing reporter Zhang Jianfeng Yang Xiuhong Wang Ying, editor and vice versa.
”朋友圈如此调侃，是2020年新冠肺炎疫情下特有的风景。
"Friends circles such fun, is the 2020 new crown pneumonia epidemic under the unique landscape.
新冠肺炎疫情下，原本不被关注的口罩，成为国民紧缺物资。
New crown pneumonia, the original attention of the mask, become a national shortage of supplies.
一时间，不仅供应一线医护人员经过环氧乙烷灭菌程序的医用级别口罩缺口巨大，普通居民用的防护口罩亦一只难求。
For a time, not only the supply of first-line medical staff after ethylene oxide sterilization procedures medical-grade mask gap, ordinary residents use a difficult to find a face mask.
巨大的需求缺口，让口罩价格涨幅超过3倍，有的地方甚至更高。
Huge demand gaps have pushed the price of masks up more than threefold, and in some cases even higher.
资本市场随之反应，奥美医疗（002950.SZ）、道恩股份（002838.SZ）等口罩概念股暴涨，生产口罩原材料的欣龙控股（000955.SZ）更是从每股4.62元大幅上涨到12.94元高点。
Capital markets responded, with mask conceptuals such as Ogilvy Medical (002950.SZ) and Dawn (002838.SZ) soaring, and Xin Lung Holdings (000955.SZ), which produces the mask raw materials, jumped to a high of 12.94 yuan from 4.62 yuan.
疫情发生后，口罩生产企业快速复工、加班生产，多家公司拟大规模扩产。
After the outbreak of the epidemic, mask manufacturers quickly resume work, overtime production, a number of companies to expand production.
《财经》记者采访发现，受超过20天的建设周期及设备采购进程影响，多家公司新增设备在3月上旬才有望投产，而多家企业口罩被相关部门统一调配，优先满足疫区需求，暂无零售渠道，也是现阶段普通居民购买困难的原因之一。
The Caijing reporter found that due to the construction cycle and equipment purchasing process for more than 20 days, many new equipment was expected to go into production in the first half of March.
“目前公司处于满产状态，日产医用外科口罩、医用防护N95口罩分别为50万只、20万只。
"At present, the company is in full production, Nissan medical surgical masks, medical protection N95 masks are 500,000, 200,000 respectively.
”奥美医疗（002950.SZ）相关人士向《财经》记者表示，所产口罩交由湖北省防指调配。
Omei Medical (002950.SZ) related sources told Caijing that the mask was handed over to the Hubei Provincial Defense Fingerprint.
尽管原有口罩生产企业加班生产，但原本行业单日2000万只的口罩产量，显然无法满足全民戴口罩所需。
Although the original mask manufacturers overtime production, but the original industry of 20 million masks a day production, apparently unable to meet the needs of the entire population wearing masks.
随着疫情在世界各国蔓延，德国药店口罩10日内涨价24倍，此前向中国捐赠口罩的日本，亦于2月21日宣布逐步恢复从中国市场进口口罩，需求急剧增加。
Demand surged on Feb. 21 after Japan, which donated face masks to China, announced on February 21 that it would gradually resume importing masks from the Chinese market, following a 24-fold increase in the price of German respirators over the past 10 days.
“我们公司员工每天也只有一个口罩可以使用。
"Our employees only have one mask to use every day.
”一位口罩生产企业人士向《财经》记者无奈表示。
A face mask manufacturer told Caijing News.
截止2月25日，包括普通口罩、医用口罩、医用N95口罩在内，全国口罩日产能达到7285万只，日产量达7619万只，分别是2月1日的3.4倍、7.8倍。
As of February 25, the national production capacity of masks, including ordinary masks, medical masks and N95 masks, reached 72.85 million, with a daily output of 76.19 million, or 3.4 times and 7.8 times that of February 1, respectively.
2月底各类口罩日产量有望达1.8亿只。
By the end of February, 180 million masks were expected to be produced daily.
华创证券日前根据全国的复工需求做了分析，指出中国二、三产就业人口总计5.3亿人，如每人每天一只口罩则需要5.3亿只/天。
Huacheng Securities has analyzed the country's demand for reinstated workers, noting that China's two or three-earner workforce totals 530 million, compared with 530 million a day for one mask per person per day.
同时，海外疫情滞后于中国，目前处于暴发早期阶段，疫情严重地区口罩脱销。
At the same time, the overseas epidemic lags behind that of China and is in the early stages of the outbreak.
供需之间两相对比，可见目前口罩缺口之大。
Supply and demand of the two opposite, can be seen at present mask gap big.
口罩产量的大幅增长，让此前处于小众需求的口罩“心脏”熔喷布，成为市场争相采购的对象。
Mask production growth, so that previously in the small demand for the "heart" Mask "heart", the market has become the object of competitive procurement.
该产品价格也从此前的2万元/吨，大幅飙升到现在的30万元/吨左右。
The price of the product has soared from 20,000 yuan per ton to about 300,000 yuan per ton today.
“现在所有人都在找熔喷布，大口罩企业原料由政府出门协调，但很多小企业买不到原材料，造成了整个市面上很多口罩机闲置。
"Right now everyone is looking for molten cloth, and the government is co-ordinating the big mask business, but many small businesses can't buy raw materials, leaving many respirators idle.
”一位小口罩生产商对《财经》记者无奈表示。
A small mask maker told Caijing News.
“目前已签订合同熔喷布供应商来自公司自有渠道，由甘肃省政府出面帮忙进行协调，基本可满足现阶段口罩生产需求。
"At present, we have a contract supplier from the company's own channels, by the Gansu government to help coordinate, basically meet the current stage of mask production needs.
”子公司拟转产口罩的翰宇药业（300199.SZ）对《财经》表示，同时我们还在寻找新的熔喷布供应商，保证生产工作的持续开展，目前口罩的“核心”熔喷布价格涨幅较大，而且采购相对困难，也希望相关部门能积极协调，组织供应。
At the same time, we are looking for a new supplier of molten cloth to ensure the continuity of production, the price of the 'core' of respirators is increasing significantly and procurement is relatively difficult, the company told Caijing.
而小企业则面临无原料的困境。
Small businesses face the dilemma of being free of raw materials.
《财经》记者采访发现，国内产能低导致熔喷布短缺，生产设备量产周期长、生产线价格较高，也成为制约熔喷布产量的重要因素，进一步限制了口罩产量的增加。
Caijing reporter found that low domestic production capacity led to a shortage of spray cloth, production equipment production cycle is long, production line prices are high, also become an important factor restricting the production of melts, further limiting the production of masks.
“虽然目前市场对熔喷布设备需求较大，但每条动辄大几百万的生产线设备成本，对于小企业来说，相当于身家性命，资金压力明显。
"Although there is a huge market demand for fueljet equipment, the cost of each product line, in the millions, is life-saving for small businesses, and the financial pressure is obvious."
”一位熔喷布设备人员表示，此前的非典、H1N1期间，也有不少企业购买设备，但市场需求并未维持多久，此次疫情会持续到什么时候还很难说。
A smelter said companies had also purchased equipment during earlier SARS and H1N1 periods, but market demand did not last long and it was unclear when the outbreak would continue.
巨大缺口下，包括中国石油、富士康、比亚迪、格力地产等多家企业宣布跨界生产口罩，部分纸尿裤、内衣厂家也纷纷加入，其中还有卫星企业的身影。
Large gaps, including PetroChina, Foxconn, BYD, Geli real estate, and other companies announced the production of cross-border masks, some paper diapers, clothing manufacturers have joined, including satellite enterprises.
随着更多企业投入口罩产业链中，口罩难买之困有望逐步缓解。
With more enterprises into the mask industry chain, the difficult to buy face masks are expected to gradually ease.
加班扩产难填缺口疫情之后至今，巨大的需求缺口，让国内原有的口罩生产厂早早开始加班加点。
Overtime expansion difficult to fill the gap after the outbreak of demand gap, so that the country's original mask production plant early began to work overtime.
“我们共计两条生产线，每天口罩产能为五、六万只。
"We have a total of two production lines with a capacity of 50,000 to 60,000 masks per day.
”湖北广水欣邦达医疗用品有限公司员工吕婷（化名）对《财经》记者表示，公司10多名员工，天天加班，每天工作10多个小时。
Lu Ting, an employee at Hubei Guangshui Xin Banda Medical Supplies Co., Ltd., told Caijing that more than 10 employees work more than 10 hours a day, working overtime.
虽然吕婷所在公司口罩产量不大，但加班生产的情况，却是国内众多口罩企业近期的一个缩影。
Although Lu Ting's company mask production is not large, but overtime production, but the domestic many mask enterprises in the near future in miniature.
涉及口罩业务的新纶科技（002341.SZ），其生产线也处于满产状态。
The new polyurethane technology (002341.SZ) involved in the mask business is also in full production.
“新冠肺炎疫情暴发时正处于春节期间，新纶科技在除夕夜就加班加点生产。
"When the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia was in the Spring Festival period, the new fiber technology in the New Year's Eve on overtime production.
”新纶科技副董事长廖垚对《财经》记者指出，口罩产能也在逐步提升，目前口罩日产能为30万只左右。
Liao Zheng, vice-chairman of Xinlun Technology, told Caijing that mask production capacity is also gradually increasing, with a daily capacity of about 300,000 masks.
同样作为口罩生产商的振德医疗（603301.SH），其口罩业务也异常繁忙。
Zhende Medical (603301.SH), also a mask manufacturer, also has a very busy mask business.
“疫情后，公司口罩生产员工约100多人，没有一天休息。
"After the epidemic, the company mask production staff of about 100 people, not a day off.
”公司一位人士对《财经》记者表示，因为口罩缺口较大，公司该业务生产线24小时开工，此前只是根据订单情况来确定生产时间，偶有加班。
A Caijing official told Caijing that the company's production line was operating on a 24-hour basis because of the large gap in masks.
复工初期，为解决原材料成为制约公司产量的重要因素，奥美医疗采购经理赵永红，大年初二便开始拜访仙桃、洪湖等地的原材料供应商，中餐没处吃是常有的事，“当时有桶泡面都是奢望。
In the early days, to solve the problem of raw materials becoming an important factor restricting the production of the company, Omei medical procurement manager Zhao Yonghong, began to visit the Nian Tao, Honghu and other places on the second day of the new year.
”其各地奔走拜访，加上国家相关部委和省驻企专班的紧急协调，公司原材料的供应慢慢变得顺畅。
Its trips around the country, coupled with the emergency coordination of the relevant ministries and provincial business schools, have slowed the supply of raw materials to the company.
公司N95医用防护口罩日产能，从零提升到目前的20万只。
The company's N95 medical mask production capacity per day, from zero to the current 200,000.
一位口罩生产企业人士介绍，目前用于防护新冠肺炎疫情主要为医用外科口罩、一次性医用口罩、医用防护口罩。
A face mask manufacturer said that the current situation used to protect the new crown pneumonia mainly for medical surgical masks, disposable medical masks, medical masks.
其中，供给如医院等高风险区的口罩，需要经过环氧乙烷灭菌程序，而这个过程往往需要两周时间。
Masks supplied to high-risk areas, such as hospitals, require ethylene oxide sterilization procedures, which often take up to two weeks.
而普通居民防护需用口罩，则不需要这个流程。
This process is not required for the use of masks for general residential protection.
为缓解口罩供给压力，部分公司拟通过新增生产线扩大产能。
To ease pressure on the supply of masks, some companies are trying to expand capacity by adding new production lines.
振德医疗2月18日在e互动表示，公司计划采购高速平面耳戴式全自动口罩制造机和KN95口罩全自动线合计20台，待上述设备全部到位投入生产后，预计公司口罩日产能将达200万只左右。
Zhende Medical Corporation announced on Feb. 18 that it plans to purchase a total of 20 high-speed planar earmuff manufacturers and KN95 face masks. When all these devices are in place, the company is expected to have a daily production capacity of about 2 million masks.
“目前，公司已经开始招聘新员工并进行培训，为新增口罩产能做准备。
"Right now, the company has started recruiting new staff and training to prepare for the new mask production capacity.
”上述振德医疗人士表示。
The Zhende medical sources said.
新纶科技也拟购买口罩生产设备，扩大产能。
Nylon technology also plans to buy mask production equipment to expand production capacity.
公司一位人士表示，产能扩充后，公司一次性医用外科口罩日常产能将达到500万只。
A person at the company said the company's disposable medical surgical mask production capacity will reach 5 million after the expansion of capacity.
同属医药行业的延安必康（002411.SZ）、翰宇药业，拟分别改建8条、5条生产线，预计口罩年产量分别为1.09亿只、2亿只。
Yenan Beikang (002411.SZ) and Han Yu Pharmaceutical Co., both in the pharmaceutical industry, propose to rebuild 8 and 5 production lines respectively, with an estimated annual output of 109 million and 200 million respectively.
但由于设备采购、建设周期等原因，上述企业新增产能并不能立即释放。
However, due to equipment procurement, construction cycle and other reasons, the above-mentioned enterprises can not immediately release the new capacity.
新纶科技上述人士2月28日对《财经》记者表示，公司上述产能释放也受制于设备采购、建设周期、材料供应等条件。
The company's above-mentioned capacity release is also constrained by equipment procurement, construction cycle, materials supply and other conditions, these people told Caijing on February 28.
受新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情、政府对口罩设备的管控及口罩机产业链产能受限等多方面因素的影响，广东昱升原计划于2月15日向延安必康孙公司必康新沂提供的一台一拖一型平面挂耳型口罩机，延期至2020年2月26日发运必康新沂。
Influenced by the new coronavirus pneumonia, government control of mask equipment and limited production capacity of the mask maker industry chain, Guangdong Yusheng originally planned to supply Yenan Pikang Xinyi on February 15 with a one-towed flat earmuff machine until February 26, 2020 to deliver Bikang Xinyi.
富田精工因受优先保证其所在安徽省内口罩生产企业的需求，无法依照合同按时向必康新沂交付口罩机。
Fujita Seiko won't be able to deliver masks to Bikang Xinyi on time, as contracted, because of the priority given to companies that manufacture masks in Anhui province.
因产能不能立即释放，尽管口罩生产企业加班加点生产，产能有所提升，但口罩生产市场缺口依然较大。
Production capacity can not be immediately released, although mask manufacturers overtime production, capacity has increased, but the gap in the production market is still large.
“社区此前总共发了两次口罩，共计10只，早已经用完，现在用的是为防疫买的口罩，一个口罩用两天。
"The community had previously issued a total of 10 face masks twice in all, and is now using face masks purchased for immunization and one for two days.
”负责北京朝阳区一个街道入户登记和定点巡逻的李渊（化名）对《财经》记者表示，“目前我也在通过网上订购，但很难看到有货，存量口罩用不了多久。
Li Yuan (not his real name), who is responsible for checking in and patrolling a street in Beijing's Chaoyang district, told Caijing.
”《财经》记者采访发现，目前口罩企业产品暂不零售，是普通居民购买口罩仍存在一定困难的原因。
"Caijing" reporter found that the current mask business products do not retail, is the reason for ordinary residents still have difficulty buying masks.
“疫情之前，口罩主要是销往医疗机构以及企事业、个人日常防护需要。
Before the outbreak, masks were mainly sold to medical institutions, businesses and individuals for daily protection needs.
通过合作伙伴，网店、药店也有部分销售。
Through partners, online stores, pharmacies are also part of the sales.
”廖垚对《财经》记者指出，疫情之后，公司口罩优先供给疫区、复工企业，零售渠道暂未考虑。
Liao told Caijing that after the outbreak, the company gave priority to supply epidemic areas, restart enterprises, retail channels have not been considered.
振德医疗相关人士对《财经》记者表示，目前口罩仍是防疫物资，公司所产口罩都由相关部门统一调配，会有一定的利润空间。
Zhende medical-related sources told Caijing, the mask is still epidemic prevention materials, the company's masks are unified by the relevant departments, there will be a certain profit space.
廖垚进一步表示，公司计划将口罩产能扩大至500万只/日，这对于目前市场上的口罩需求仍是杯水车薪。
Mr Liao further said the company plans to expand its mask production capacity to 5m per day, which is still a tiny fraction of the current market demand for masks.
“公司管理层要求口罩生产优先保障疫区、一线人员的防护需要，在此基础上，公司会安排部分产能协助企业复工，目前产能、人员仍然有限，尚未有计划直接向普通居民零售”。
"The company's management requires the production of face masks to give priority to the protection needs of affected areas and front-line workers. On this basis, the company will arrange some production capacity to help enterprises return to work.
正在推进口罩生产事项的翰宇药业，亦对《财经》记者表示，公司生产的是一次性使用医用口罩，量产后，根据当地政府要求，公司所生产的口罩目前均受政府统一调控，调控比例根据疫情发展情况而定。
The company, which is pushing forward the mask-making issue, also told Caijing that the company is producing disposable medical masks. At the request of the local government, the company's masks are under unified government control, depending on the development of the epidemic.
“因此，公司目前只是与有采购意向的公司和企业进行了初步洽谈。
"As a result, the company is currently engaged in only preliminary discussions with companies and companies interested in purchasing.
”而随着疫情向世界各地蔓延，意大利、日本、韩国等国家对口罩等医用卫生产品的需求快速增加,缺口进一步上升。
As the epidemic spreads around the world, demand for medical products, such as masks, is rising rapidly in Italy, Japan and South Korea, with the gap rising further.
其中，意大利部分药局的口罩厂商已无库存，100枚口罩售价高达100欧元，韩国新冠肺炎疫情严重的大邱市和庆尚北道1人限购口罩30个。
In Italy, some manufacturers of respirators are out of stock, 100 face masks are sold for up to 100 euros, and 30 face masks have been banned in Daegu and Gyeongshan North Province, which have severe cases of pneumonia in South Korea.
而美国更是曝出2.7亿只N95医用口罩缺口。
And the United States has exposed 270 million N95 medical mask gaps.
“公司产品中拥有医用无纺布生产前道工序——纤维开松混合、高速梳理设备及医用纱线的全自动气流纺纱全流程解决方案，主要用于医疗卫生用品，如口罩、消毒湿巾、成人尿布、医用纱布等领域。
"The company has a pre-production process for medical non-woven fabric - fiber open mixing, high-speed carding equipment and medical yarn full flow solution, mainly used for medical health supplies, such as masks, disinfectant wipes, adult diapers, medical gauze and other areas.
”卓郎集团首席运营官管烨对《财经》记者表示，随着疫情在全球蔓延，公司国内外客户对梳理机、气流纺纱设备的订单也在增加，除中国外，作为欧洲纺织重要基地的土耳其，该国厂商对公司下的设备订单在1月、2月份同比增幅达到50%以上。
As the epidemic spreads around the world, orders for combing machines and air-flow spinning equipment are on the rise, as well as orders from domestic and foreign customers for carding machines and spinning equipment, with orders for equipment from Turkey, an important European textile base, rising more than 50 per cent year-on-year in January and February.
口罩“心脏”短缺是关键“现在口罩短缺最核心的问题，不是人工，也不是口罩机，而是真正起到过滤效果的熔喷布产能不足。
A shortage of "heart" masks is the key "problem at the heart of the current shortage of masks, not manpower, nor masks, but a real filter effect of the melt-jet production capacity.
现在熔喷布从一吨3万多元涨到20多万元，关键问题是一般厂家还买不到。
Now the melting pot from more than 30,000 yuan to more than 200,000 yuan, the key problem is that the general manufacturers can not buy.
”一位业内人士近日告诉《财经》记者。
An insider told Caijing recently.
“医用熔喷布现货价格28万元/吨。
"Medical spray cloth spot price 280,000 yuan / ton.
2月26日，一个政府朋友说，从深圳采购的熔喷布价格超过30万元/吨，3月中旬的期货价格为近30万元/吨。
On February 26, a government friend said that the price of melts purchased from Shenzhen exceeded 300,000 yuan per ton, and that the futures price in mid-March was nearly 300,000 yuan per ton.
行业有传最高超过70多万元/吨。
The industry has a maximum throughput of over $700,000 per ton.
”来自国内一家熔喷布生产企业的张强（化名）对《财经》记者表示。
Zhang Qiang (not his real name), from a domestic production company, told Caijing.
2月27日，《财经》记者在熔喷布集采微信群中了解到，有供货商对熔喷布的报价为32万元/吨，且并非现货，需要等3天左右。
On February 27, Caijing reporter in the fusible jet collection microphone group learned that there is a supplier to the melting pot price of 320,000 yuan / ton, and is not available, need to wait about three days.
对此价格，一些熔喷布采购商直呼太贵。
For this price, some melt-jet buyers call it too expensive.
另有一家供应商称，公司提供从俄罗斯采购的BFE99型号的熔喷布，不过该货源为期货，需要10-20天内分批次发到国内，报价23万元/吨。
Another supplier stated that it provided BFE99 type of fusible jet fabric purchased from Russia, although the source was futures and would need to be sent to China in 10-20 days at a price of $230,000 per ton.
“不仅中国缺，随着疫情的蔓延，日本、韩国也缺熔喷布，有些做熔喷布的进出口商，近期也开始在国内购买熔喷布，给日本、韩国企业用。
"Not only is China in short supply, Japan and South Korea are short of melts as the epidemic spreads, and some exporters and importers of melts have recently started buying melts at home for Japanese and South Korean companies.
”张强告诉《财经》记者。
Zhang Qiang told Caijing.
“熔喷布生产基本上已经被政府管控了，即使市面上有，也都是转了好几道手的中间商在囤货，然后一点点释放出来。
"Melt production is basically controlled by the government, and even if it does exist, brokers are stocking it up and releasing it little by little.
价格一天会有几万元的变化，我一周前问到的价格是12万元，今天问的价格是30万元。
The price will change tens of thousands of yuan a day. The price I asked a week ago is 120,000 yuan.
”2月25日，一家上市公司采购部的李海（化名）对《财经》记者表示，“如果管控一直没有完全放开，预计这种暴涨的行情可能要延续到4月份。
Li Hai (not his real name) from the purchasing arm of a listed company told Caijing on Feb. 25 that the surge is expected to continue into April if controls are not fully liberalised.
”根据中投产业研究院提供的数据，在2019年新型冠状病毒疫情暴发前，熔喷布的市场价格约为1.8万元/吨。
Before the 2019 outbreak of the new coronavirus, the market price for melts was about 18,000 yuan a tonne, according to CIC Industrial Research.
根据2月26日供应商的报价计算，熔喷布在短时间内已经上涨了10倍左右。
According to the supplier's offer of February 26, the melting pot has risen about 10-fold in a short time.
熔喷布被视为口罩的“心脏”，是口罩中间的过滤层，能过滤细菌，阻止病菌传播。
The "heart" of the mask, the filter layer in the middle of the mask, filters out bacteria and prevents their spread.
熔喷布由高熔融指数的聚丙烯材料制成。
The melt-jet fabric is made of polypropylene material with a high melt index.
医用外科口罩和N95口罩一般采用多层结构，医用口罩多采用SMS结构：里外两层为单层纺粘层（S）；中间为熔喷层（M），一般分为单层或者多层。
Medical surgical masks and N95 masks are generally multi-storey in structure. Medical masks are mostly of SMS construction: single-layer spun layer (S) on the inside and outside, and single-layer or multi-layer mask in the middle.
N95口罩有时则需使用SMMMS无纺布（三层熔喷层）制作，熔喷布的用量高于普通口罩。
N95 masks are sometimes made of SMMMS non-woven fabric (three layers of molten coating), with a higher amount of spray than normal masks.
“每只医用口罩约耗费0.7克熔喷布，1吨熔喷布约可生产140万只口罩。
"Each medical mask costs about 0.7 grams of spray and one ton of spray produces about 1.4 million masks.
”一家上市公司相关负责人对《财经》记者表示，该公司目前为民用熔喷布生产商。
The head of a listed company told Caijing that the company is now a manufacturer of civilian jet fabric.
另有市场人士粗略估计，每吨熔喷布约可生产100万只医用口罩。
Another rough estimate put the number of medical masks produced per tonne of spray at about 1 million.
疫情暴发之前，国内熔喷布产能较小。
Before the outbreak, domestic smelter production capacity was relatively small.
根据中国产业用纺织品行业协会统计，2018年我国各类非织造布年产量达593.22万吨，其中，纺粘非织造布的产量为297.12万吨，约占非织造布总产量的一半，主要应用于卫生材料等领域；熔喷无纺布则仅占无纺布产量的0.9%。
According to statistics from the China Association of Industrial Textile Industry, the annual output of various non-woven fabrics in 2018 was 5.932 million tons, of which 2.9712 million tons, or about half of the total non-woven production, was used mainly in the fields of sanitary materials, while the melt-blown nonwoven fabric accounted for 0.9 per cent of the non-woven production.
按照上述数据测算，2018年我国熔喷无纺布产量约为5.34万吨，每日产量约146吨。
According to the above data, in 2018, China's melt-jet non-woven production of about 53,400 tons, about 146 tons per day.
不过，这些熔喷布不仅用于口罩，还用于环保材料、服装材料、电池隔膜材料、擦拭材料等生产。
However, these fuses are not only used for masks, but also for environmental protection materials, clothing materials, battery diaphragm materials, cleaning materials and other production.
在当前疫情下，100多吨的日产量已远不能满足市场需求。
In the current epidemic, more than 100 tons of daily production has fallen far short of market demand.
“公司2月24日开始接受订单，帮助国内企业在国外采购熔喷布，每天要接上百个电话，微信信息太多，2月24日、25日每天的订单都有100吨。
"The company started accepting orders on Feb. 24 to help domestic companies buy melts abroad, making hundreds of calls a day and sending too many messages," he said.
”蚂蚁雄兵供应链管理（深圳）有限公司的一位工作人员肖风（化名）对《财经》记者表示。
Xiao Feng (not his real name), a staff member of Ant Male Supply Chain Management (Shenzhen) Ltd, told Caijing.
该公司是一家进出口商，据其介绍，此前公司做口罩、体温枪境外采购，由于海外确诊病例增多，也出现了囤货、抬价现象。
The company, an importer and exporter, said it had previously purchased masks and body temperature guns overseas and had been stocking up and raising prices due to an increase in confirmed cases overseas.
在了解到国内熔喷布紧缺的情况下，其开始帮国内企业做熔喷布境外采购。
In understanding that the domestic melt-jet fabric is in short supply, it began to help domestic enterprises do melt-jet fabric procurement abroad.
其对外给出的BEF99熔喷布报价为,期货17.7万元/吨，现货19.7万元/吨。
Its offer for BEF99 is 177,000 yuan per ton in futures and 197,000 yuan per ton in stock.
在熔喷布集采微信群中，《财经》记者注意到，每天仍有大量企业在寻找熔喷布货源。
Among the micro-clusters, Caijing noted that a large number of enterprises are still looking for a melting pot every day.
还有一个商家，则被质疑在倒卖熔喷布，以期低买高卖。
Still another businessman, is challenged in reselling the spray cloth with a view to buying low and selling high.
但从群内报价来看，已没有低于20万元/吨的货源了。
But from the group quotes, there is no less than 200, 000 yuan / tonne of goods.
多家采购商将预期调为低于30万元/吨。
A number of buyers will be expected to lower than 300,000 yuan / ton.
口罩生产产业链中，除熔喷布外，口罩机也出现较大幅度上涨。
Mask production industry chain, in addition to the fusible spray, mask machine also appeared a substantial rise.
一位业内人士对《财经》记者表示，口罩生产产业链主要为聚丙烯—熔喷料—熔喷布—口罩，且每一生产环节均需要相应的生产设备。
One industry source told Caijing that the mask manufacturing industry chain is mainly polypropylene-melt-spray-spray-mask, and each production process needs the corresponding production equipment.
据前述上市公司采购部的李海介绍：“我们采购了自动化口罩机，目前市面上有一拖一或者一拖二的，在没有发生疫情之前，一台一拖二的口罩机约18万元，现在炒到了一台五六十万元。
"We have purchased an automated mask machine, which is now on the market for a year or two," said Li Hai of the listed company's purchasing department. "Before the outbreak, a two-year-old mask machine was worth about $180,000, but now it's worth $560,000.
”另据《财经》记者采访发现，生产口罩的其他原材料，如聚丙烯和熔喷料，则供应充足，价格在合理范围内。
Other raw materials used to make masks, such as polypropylene and molten material, are available in sufficient quantities and at reasonable prices, Caijing said.
中国石化是我国最大的医用化工原料生产商，在跨界介入口罩市场前，主要向市场供应聚丙烯。
Sinopec, the largest manufacturer of medical chemical raw materials in China, mainly supplies polypropylene to the market before it enters the market.
早在1月底，该公司就承诺，抗疫期间，中国石化生产的医疗卫生用物资相关原料一律不涨价。
As early as the end of January, the company promised that the price of medical and health-related materials produced by Sinopec would not rise during the epidemic.
《财经》记者还了解到，用于生产熔喷布的熔喷料目前供应亦较为充足，价格波动在合理区间内。
Caijing reporter also learned that the current supply of melts for the production of melts is adequate, price fluctuations within a reasonable range.
核心原材料产能待缓解“目前熔喷布供应缺口大，是因为此前行业比较窄，用量突然增大。
Core material production capacity to be alleviated "At present, the melt-jet supply gap is large, because the industry has been relatively narrow, the use of sudden increase.
”山东俊富无纺布有限公司一位内部人士告诉《财经》记者。
Shandong Junfu Nonwoven Co. Ltd., an insider, told Caijing.
据悉，该公司是目前国内最大熔喷布生产商，其每日产量为15吨。
It is reported that the company is the largest domestic manufacturers of spray cloth, its daily production of 15 tons.
公司目前拥有7条熔喷生产线、4条防粘生产线等。
At present, the company has 7 fusible spray production line, 4 anti-sticking production lines.
其熔喷布细菌阻隔率都达到95%以上，均符合医用级别。
The bacterial isolation rate of the spray coating reached 95% or more, all of which are in accordance with the medical grade.
面对口罩核心原材料紧缺的局面，央企中国石化跨界介入。
Faced with the lack of raw materials at the heart of the mask situation, Sinopec China petrochemical cross-border intervention.
2月24日，中国石化党组决定，利用自有原料生产优势，建设10条熔喷布生产线。
On February 24, the group decided to build 10 production lines using its own raw materials.
据了解，中国石化此次将投资约2亿元，在北京燕山石化和江苏仪征化纤两家企业抓紧建设熔喷无纺布（即熔喷布）、纺粘布生产线。
It is understood that Sinopec will invest about 200 million yuan this time, in Beijing Yanshan Petrochemical Company and Jiangsu Yizheng Chemical Fiber two enterprises to speed up the construction of melt-blown non-woven fabric (i.e., melting cloth), spinning production lines.
其中，北京燕山石化将建设2条熔喷布生产线和3条纺粘布生产线，力争在3月8日前实现熔喷布部分投产。
Among them, Beijing Yanshan Petrochemical Company will build 2 production lines and 3 textile viscose production lines, and strive to realize partial production of the melt-jet fabric by March 8.
仪征化纤将建设8条熔喷布生产线，将于4月中旬陆续建成投产。
The instrument will build eight melt-jet production lines, which will begin production in mid-April.
全部投产后，每日可生产12吨N95熔喷布，或生产医用平面口罩原料18吨。
After full production, 12 tons of N95 fusible fabric can be produced daily, or 18 tons of raw materials for medical planar masks can be produced.
这些原料如果用于生产医用平面口罩，每日产量可达1800万只。
If used in the production of medical planar masks, these materials could produce up to 18 million tablets a day.
“建设熔喷布生产线，如果按照正常流程，可能需要两年，现在十几天就落实了。
"The construction of the production line of spray cloth, if normal procedure, may take two years, now a dozen days to implement.
”中国石化一位内部人士在接受《财经》记者采访时表示，“目前公司员工都在加班加点工作，燕山石化的同事已经忙得不可开交。
"Employees are working overtime and Yanshan Petrochemical's colleagues are already busy," a Caijing insider told Caijing.
”中国石化生产的熔喷布将如何定价？“目前我们尚未定价，一个可能的定价方式为，按照国家采购口罩的价格倒推熔喷布的价格。
"We haven't priced it yet, and one possible way to price it would be to push back the price of a national mask," he said.
”前述中国石化内部人士表示，“这有望在一定程度上抑制国内熔喷布的炒作。
"This is expected to dampen domestic speculation to some extent," said the country's petrochemical insiders.
”在熔喷布集采微信群中，有口罩厂商开始企盼，中国石化的熔喷布投产后，熔喷布价格不再继续疯涨。
Mask makers in the fusible jet pack are hoping that prices will not continue to skyrocket after Sinopec's sprays come into production.
作为两桶油之一的中国石油，在加快生产熔喷布原料聚丙烯医用料的同时，组织炼化生产企业、化工销售单位、科研院所及合作伙伴，合作生产熔喷布。
As one of the two barrels of oil, PetroChina, while speeding up the production of polypropylene, the raw material for the melt-jet, has organized its refinery and chemical production enterprises, chemical marketing units, research institutes and partners to jointly produce melts.
3月份熔喷布合作产能，将达到7吨/天。
Co-production capacity of Molten Cloth will reach 7 tons / day in March.
除了此前国内产能低导致熔喷布短缺，熔喷布生产设备量产周期长、生产线价格较高，也成为制约其产量的重要因素。
In addition to the previous low domestic production capacity resulting in a shortage of spray cloth, melt-jet production equipment production cycle is long, production line prices are high, has become an important factor limiting its output.
“正常情况下，1条生产线的周期，从购买到量产需要两个月时间。
"Normally, it takes two months for a production line to run from purchase to mass production.
”青岛塔克净化技术公司的销售人员对《财经》记者表示，该公司是国内一家熔喷布生产设备厂家，据其介绍，目前公司熔喷无纺布生产设备的订单比较多。
Qingdao Tucker Technology sales staff told Caijing that the company is a domestic manufacturer of melt-jet fabric production equipment, according to which there are more orders for melts and non-woven production equipment.
在熔喷布集采微信群中，也有供应商在分析原因，熔喷布生产设备的熔喷头主要来自德国，目前国内对熔喷头的订单，可能要4月初才能交货。
In the fusible jet group, there are also suppliers analyzing the reasons. The fusible jet production equipment mainly comes from Germany. At present, the domestic order for fusible jet head may not be delivered until early April.
“我们的熔喷布生产线能够快速上线，得益于公司旗下易派客和客户的对接。
"Our production line can be put on line quickly, thanks to the company's customers and transferees and docking.
”前述中国石化内部人士表示，“易派客是中国石化旗下工业品电商平台，具备采购和销售功能。
The former Sinopec insiders said: "Yi customers are Sinopec's industrial products business platform with purchasing and sales functions.
通过这几年的努力，易派客在供应链整合方面积累了一定资源。
Through the efforts of these years, easy-to-send customers in the supply chain integration has accumulated a certain amount of resources.
”据其介绍，在疫情暴发初期，公司通过易派客平台从海外紧急寻找货源，锁定了40吨熔喷布。
In the early days of the outbreak, the company was able to locate supplies from overseas on an emergency basis, locking in 40 tons of spray cloth, according to the company.
目前这些货源大部分已对接给急需的企业。
At present, most of these supplies have docked to enterprises in urgent need.
熔喷布生产线高昂的价格也让一些中小企业望洋兴叹。
The high price of the production line also makes some small and medium-sized enterprises exclaim.
“据我了解，一条熔喷布生产线投产成本约千万元级别。
"As far as I know, the production cost of a production line is about ten million yuan.
”张强告诉《财经》记者，公司此前生产无纺防护，在原有的设备基础上，通过购买核心配件，改装成熔喷无纺布生产设备。
Zhang told Caijing that the company had previously produced non-woven protection, based on the original equipment, through the purchase of core accessories, converted into a melt-blown non-woven production equipment.
“公司熔喷布设备产品宽幅分别为1600mm、2400mm、3200mm，年最大产量分别为600吨、800吨、1000吨。
"The width of the melt-jet equipment is 160mm, 2400mm and 3200mm respectively, with a maximum annual output of 600 tons, 800 tons and 1,000 tons, respectively.
”一位熔喷布生产企业人员对《财经》记者分析，其中年产1000吨平均日产能约2.74吨，但该设备价格近千万元，非一般规模企业所能承受。
One melt-jet producer told Caijing that the equipment, which produces about 2.74 tonnes a day on average, costs nearly $10 million a year and is unaffordable for companies of average size.
按照中国石化此次投资2亿元，建成10条熔喷布生产线和3条纺粘布生产线计算，每条熔喷布生产线的价格也在2000万元左右。
According to PetroChina's investment of 200 million yuan, the construction of 10 production lines and 3 textile viscose production lines, the price of each melt-jet production line is around 20 million yuan.
多公司跨界支援面对“一罩难求”的紧张局面，不少企业纷纷“跨界”生产，“改行”做起了口罩。
Multi-company cross-border support in the face of "difficult access" tension, many enterprises have "cross-border" production, "change the profession" to become a mask.
其中不仅有比亚迪、上汽通用五菱、富士康等大型制造企业，爹地宝贝、三枪内衣等纸尿裤、服装生产企业，甚至还有地产、卫星这类完全“不沾边”的公司。
Among them are not only BYD, SAIC General Wuling, Foxconn and other large manufacturing enterprises, father and child, three gun underwear and other paper diapers, clothing production enterprises, and even real estate, satellite and other such as the "completely off-the-shelf.
企查查数据显示，自2020年1月1日至2月27日，全国范围内医疗器械新增企业超3万家。
From January 1 to February 27, 2020, more than 30,000 new medical device enterprises were added nationwide, according to company survey data.
2月6日下午，富士康在公众号上发文称，集团旗下工业富联（601138.SH）近日在集团龙华园区首次导入口罩生产线，2月5日顺利实现试产，相关产能预计在2月底可达到日产200万只。
In the afternoon of Feb. 6, Foxconn said in a public announcement that the group's industrial consortium, 601138.SH, had recently introduced its first mask production line into the group's Longhua Park, successfully launching a trial production on February 5 and expected to produce two million masks a day by the end of February.
口罩优先用于富士康近百万员工内部生产防疫保障，未来视情况积极对外支援输出。
The mask is used to protect Foxconn's internal production and epidemic prevention for nearly one million employees.
至2月17日，累计交货100万只。
By 17 February, a cumulative total of 1 million deliveries had been made.
在富士康发文生产口罩的当天，中国石油启动大庆石化、抚顺石化、兰州石化和大庆油田三地四家企业的口罩生产线建设。
On the day of Foxconn's production of masks, PetroChina began construction of a mask production line in four companies: Daqing Petrochemical, Fushun Petrochemical, Lanzhou Petrochemical and Daqing Oilfields.
截至2月29日，4家企业新建6条医用口罩生产线开始满负荷加工生产，口罩日产能60万只。
As of February 29, four companies began manufacturing six new medical mask production lines at full capacity, with a capacity of 600,000 masks a day.
进入3月，随着引进的21条口罩生产线陆续开工，中国石油日产口罩可达150万只。
In March, China produced 1.5 million face masks a day as 21 production lines began to be introduced.
2月13日，上汽通用五菱汽车（以下简称“五菱”）生产的第一批20万只口罩已批量出货。
On February 13, the first batch of 200,000 masks produced by SAIC General Wuling (hereinafter referred to as "Wuling") was shipped.
7天前，公司称，联合供应商共同改造无尘车间进行口罩生产，日产量预计达到170万只以上。
Seven days ago, the company said it was working with a joint supplier to revamp its dust-free workshop to produce more than 1.7 million masks a day.
14日，五菱已生产下线的前100万只“五菱口罩”正式交付。
On the 14th, Wuling has produced the first 1 million "Wuling Mask" officially delivered.
此外，比亚迪、广汽集团等车企也通过自建或联合供应商转战口罩生产。
In addition, BYD, FAW Group and other car companies through self-built or joint suppliers to switch to mask production.
比亚迪2月8日在其官微宣布，调配资源，援产口罩和消毒液，口罩产能本月底可达500万只/天，直至疫情缓解和消除。
BYD announced in an official announcement on February 8 that it would deploy resources to help produce face masks and disinfectant, and that it would be able to produce 5 million masks by the end of the month until the disease is reduced or eliminated.
“主要供给一线疫区、医院以及抗病毒相关部门，产能多余后会以平价对外销售。
"The main supply of first-line epidemic areas, hospitals and anti-virus-related departments, after excess capacity will be sold at parity.
”与车企“跨界”相比，纸尿裤、内衣厂家的转产更是水到渠成。
Compared with the "cross-border" car companies, paper diapers, clothing factories home conversion is more natural.
爹地宝贝、三枪内衣、红豆服饰、水星家纺等一批商家纷纷改变原定生产计划，转产口罩和防护服。
A number of manufacturers have changed their original production plans to produce masks and protective clothing, including Daddys, Three-Gun Lingerie, Red Bean Clothing and Mercury Home Textile.
其中，以生产婴儿纸尿裤等产品为主的爹地宝贝，紧急对旧有的纸尿裤生产线进行改造，首条民用口罩生产线自2月12日起试产，每分钟可生产口罩650-900只，最高设计产能每日70万只。
The first civilian mask production line began production on February 12, producing 650-900 face masks per minute, with a maximum design capacity of 700,000 per day.
如果说以上企业更多的是改造生产线，格力地产、珠海欧比特宇航科技股份有限公司（以下简称“欧比特”）则是从无到有，标准的“现学现卖”。
If the above-mentioned enterprises are more the transformation of the production line, Geli real estate, Zhuhai Obit Aerospace Science and Technology Co. Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "bit") is from scratch, the standard "learning to sell."
两家企业同隶属于珠海国资委。
Both companies are affiliated with the Zhuhai SASAC.
其中欧比特，是我国民营卫星产业的“第一股”。
Among them, Obit is China's private satellite industry "the first share."
据了解，两家企业前往多家口罩设备厂商调研，短时间内完成了自动化口罩生产线的研发与生产。
It is understood that two enterprises to a number of mask manufacturers research, a short time to complete the automated mask production line development and production.
格力地产预计3月底将新增产能至80万只/日，欧比特口罩车间最大产能将达到75万只/日，口罩用于支持市民防疫抗疫以及企业复工复产。
Gree expects to add 800,000 new capacity days by the end of March, while the Obit Mask Workshop will have a maximum capacity of 750,000 person-days to support the fight against epidemic diseases and the resumption of business operations.
上述企业看似与防疫物资相去甚远，比如汽车，如何能实现快速转产？事实上，医用口罩生产的技术壁垒不高，从送原料进机器到做出口罩，共有压合、裁切、超声焊接等四五道工序。
In fact, the technical barriers to the production of medical masks are not high, ranging from sending raw materials into machines to making masks, and there are four or five processes, such as pressurization, cutting, and ultrasonic welding.
主要瓶颈在于医用资质和原材料供应。
The main bottlenecks are medical qualifications and supplies of raw materials.
原材料方面，常见的医用外科口罩分为三层，外层防液体飞溅、内层为普通无纺布、中间层起过滤效果的是极细密且带静电的过滤布——熔喷无纺布，它的主要材料是高熔指聚丙烯。
Raw materials, the common medical surgical mask into three layers, the outer layer of anti-liquid splash, the inner layer for ordinary non-woven, the middle layer filter effect is very fine and static filter - melt sprayed non-woven fabric, its main material is high-melt-finger polypropylene.
而聚丙烯，也是生产汽车隔音棉的原材料之一，汽车厂家货源充足。
But polypropylene, also is one of the raw materials that produces car soundproof cotton, automobile manufacturer has sufficient supply.
口罩属于二类医疗器械，生产企业需要获得医疗器械生产许可。
Mask belongs to the category 2 medical device, the production enterprise needs to obtain the medical device production license.
当前不少地方政府正采取“特事特办”，启动医疗器械应急审批的“绿色通道”，加快审批流程。
At present, many local governments are taking special measures to launch green channels for emergency examination and approval of medical devices and accelerate the examination and approval process.
从生产技术上说，口罩生产需要在无尘车间进行，但对于车企、药企、食品厂、纸尿裤厂来说，“无尘”早已是标配。
Technically speaking, mask production needs to take place in dust-free workshops, but for car companies, pharmaceutical companies, food factories, and paper diapers factories, "dust-free" has long been the norm.
有跨界生产口罩的制药企业对《财经》记者表示，已有的厂房设施、洁净车间、检验设备等生产条件符合医用防护用品的生产要求，“在现有软硬件设施的基础上进行医用口罩生产线改建，项目投资小、建设周期短，短期内即可实现规模化生产”。
Pharmaceutical companies with cross-border mask production told Caijing that the production conditions of existing factory facilities, clean workshops and inspection equipment meet the production requirements of medical protection articles. "On the basis of the existing hardware and software facilities, the production line for medical masks will be rebuilt.
无论是五菱、比亚迪、广汽集团还是富士康，都属于先进大型制造企业，拥有超强的代工能力和综合制造能力，借助自身在全球布局、成本控制、市场协同方面的优势，打通原料采购、设备制造、产品生产等全产业链，实现快速转产。
Wuling, BYD, Guangzhou Automotive Group or Foxconn all belong to the advanced large-scale manufacturing enterprises, with super-strong ability of subcontracting and comprehensive manufacturing, using their advantages in global distribution, cost control, market coordination, opening up the entire industrial chain of material procurement, equipment manufacturing, product production, etc., to achieve rapid conversion.
有安全气囊布生产商对《财经》记者表示，公司跨界生产口罩并非短期之举，长远来看，未来将拓展医疗器械生产行业，口罩只是其中一部分，“疫情提升了全社会对医疗健康领域的重视程度，国民有望持续增加健康消费支出，看好消费医疗市场前景”。
In the long term, the company will expand its medical equipment manufacturing industry. Mask masks are only part of the long-term development. "The epidemic has raised the profile of the health care sector in society, and people are expected to continue to increase their health-care spending," Caijing told Caijing.
公司准备试行小批量生产，口罩样品通过检测后，即可获得相关资质认证。
The company is ready to test small batch production, mask samples passed the test, you can obtain the relevant certification.
如此多跨界企业的加入，究竟能否缓解口罩的供应紧张？国家发展改革委27日宣布，继2月24日我国医用N95口罩日产能突破100万只后，2月25日我国医用口罩日产能达到3212万只，日产量达到3028万只；包括普通口罩、医用口罩、医用N95口罩在内，全国口罩日产能达到7285万只，日产量达到7619万只，分别是2月1日的3.4倍、7.8倍。
The National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) announced on Feb. 25 that China had 32.12 million medical masks with a daily production capacity of 30.28 million, with 72.85 million masks and 76.19 million daily masks, 3.4 times and 7.8 times the capacity of February 1 respectively.
中国纺织品商业协会安全健康防护用品委员会会长雷利民在此前采访中表示，随着逐步复工，预计2月底每天能生产各类口罩1.8亿只。
The company expects to produce 180 million face masks a day by the end of February, according to Rilimin, head of the China Textile Commerce Association's safety and health protection committee, in an interview.
但随着全国各地开始逐步复工，口罩需求量急剧增长，缺口也在不断扩大。
But demand for masks has risen sharply and the gap has widened as work has begun to resume across the country.
发改委要求复工企业为职工配备口罩等防疫物资。
The NDRC requested reinstated enterprises to equip workers with epidemic prevention materials such as masks.
此外，口罩的生产技术流程，也延缓了出厂上市时间。
In addition, the production of masks technical process, but also delayed the launch time.
工信部表示，口罩生产仅需0.5秒/只，但一个解析消毒的标准流程却需要7天到半个月。
The ministry says it takes only half a second to produce a mask, but a standard process for disinfection takes seven days to half a month.
解析消毒是指释放口罩上残留的环氧乙烷，使之达到安全含量标准。
Analytical disinfection is the release of ethylene oxide residue on the mask to achieve safe content standards.
这也就意味着，目前生产的口罩，只有等到3月份才能出厂上市。
This also means that the current production of masks, only in March out of the factory.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click Here for more information about the epidemic:: Archives & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and may not be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
口罩日产量增长7.8倍背后：堵上心脏层喷熔布的缺口。
Mask output increased 7.8 times a day behind: plug the gap in the heart layer spray melting cloth.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "口罩日产量增长7.8倍背后：堵上心脏层喷熔布的缺口";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "口罩产量的大幅增长，让此前处于小众需求的口罩“心脏”熔喷布，成为市场争相采购的对象。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
该产品价格也从此前的2万";。
The price of the product has also risen from Rhett & quot; 20; s.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
