积极应对新冠疫情对宏观经济的外部冲击。
Actively deal with the external macroeconomic impact of the new crown epidemic.
何帆 朱鹤。
He sails and cranes.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
企业的复产之路充满不确定性。
The path to recovery is fraught with uncertainty.
接下来会如何演化，既取决于企业的自救措施，更取决于政府能否为复产提供一个相对友好的宏观环境。
How it evolves depends as much on companies "self-help efforts as it does on whether the government can provide a relatively friendly macro environment for the resumption of production.
最关键的是财政政策要更加积极何帆 朱鹤 | 文当前，新冠疫情正在以一种我们从未见过的方式影响着中国和世界经济。
Crucially, fiscal policy must be more aggressive. At present, the new crown is affecting China and the world economy in a way we have never seen before.
新冠病毒感染性强、潜伏期长、且正在逐渐扩散到世界各国。
The new crown virus is highly infectious, has a long incubation period, and is spreading to many countries.
新冠疫情与我们以往见过的所有外部冲击都不同。
The new crown is different from any external shock we have ever seen.
它既不像2008年因外需突然萎缩带来的需求冲击，也不像20世纪70年代石油危机或者2011年日本大地震带来的供给冲击，甚至也不能完全以2003年的SARS疫情为参照。
It is neither the demand shock from the sudden contraction of external demand in 2008, nor the supply shock from the oil crisis of the 1970 "s or the Great Japan Earthquake of 2011, or even the SARS epidemic of 2003.
用现有的宏观模型分析新冠疫情对宏观经济的影响，无异于刻舟求剑。
Using the existing macro-model to analyze the macro-economic impact of the new crown epidemic, is tantamount to seeking a sword.
本文试图在已有数据的基础估算新冠疫情可能对中国宏观经济带来的影响。
This paper attempts to estimate the possible macro-economic impact of the new crown epidemic on China based on the available data.
本文仅侧重新冠病毒影响中国经济的最直接机制：即因防控疫情导致绝大多数企业处于停产或半停产状态。
The only direct mechanism of this paper is that the majority of enterprises are shut down or semi-shut down due to the epidemic.
企业何时能够全面复产，回到正常的生产状态，决定了疫情对经济的影响量级。
When the enterprise can fully resume production, return to the normal state of production, determine the impact of the epidemic on the economy.
新冠疫情对各个产业带来的冲击也不一样。
The impact of the new crown epidemic on industries has been different.
比如，餐饮、旅游、交通运输等行业受到疫情的冲击更大，而制造业受到的冲击相对较小，网购、网游等行业反而在疫情中逆势上扬。
For example, the catering, tourism, transportation and other sectors were more affected by the epidemic, while manufacturing was relatively less affected, while sectors such as online purchasing and online games rose against the epidemic.
制造业是中国经济的基石，而制造业中细分行业较多。
Manufacturing is the cornerstone of China's economy, with more segments in the manufacturing sector.
本文试图提出一个初步的分析框架，探讨制造业各行业受到疫情影响大小。
This paper attempts to propose a preliminary analysis framework to explore the impact of manufacturing industries affected by the epidemic.
假设疫情会出现进一步的变化，则中国和全球经济受到的影响势必会更加复杂，我们也将跟踪局势的变化，做出更详细的探讨。
Assuming further changes in the epidemic, the impact on China and the global economy is bound to become more complex, and we will follow the situation and discuss it in more detail.
一、 中国经济什么时候能恢复正常？我们先讨论企业何时能够全面复产。
When will China's economy return to normal? We will first discuss when enterprises can resume full-scale production.
这里所说的全面复产，指的是企业从当前的极端状态下恢复到正常的生产秩序，主要体现为三个方面，分别是员工人数、产能利用率和现金流水平。
The term "full-scale rehabilitation" refers to the return of enterprises from the current extreme state to normal production order, which is manifested in three aspects: the number of employees, the capacity utilization rate and the cash flow level.
这三个方面的逻辑关系是：恢复生产秩序的先决条件是人员到岗，中端验证是产能利用率等指标恢复到正常水平，最终确认是下游需求回暖以及企业现金流恢复正常。
The logic of these three aspects is that the prerequisite for the restoration of production order is the arrival of personnel, mid-level verification is the return to normal levels of indicators such as capacity utilization, and finally confirmation of a warmer downstream demand and a return to normal cash flow.
从能够获得的高频数据可以看出，企业复产的进度并不乐观。
From the availability of high-frequency data, it can be seen that the pace of the resumption of production is not optimistic.
首先，我们利用全国铁路每日客运量来跟踪人员到岗的情况。
First of all, we use the national railway daily passenger volume to track the arrival of personnel.
如图1所示，从2月10日明确开启复工至今，客运量的恢复速度依然较慢。
As shown in figure 1, passenger traffic has continued to recover at a slower pace since the resumption of work on 10 February.
2月19日至今，每日客运量环比有明显增加，但与正常状态下每天800-900万人次的客运量水平仍有显著差异。
Since February 19, there has been a marked increase in the daily passenger volume ratio, but there is still a significant difference from the normal daily passenger volume of 8-9 million passengers.
我们也可以用五大发电集团的日均耗煤量来跟踪企业实际的生产情况（业界普遍采用六大发电集团的日均耗煤量，我们这里剔除了国电的耗煤数据，主要是因为该数据自2月7日至今，日均耗煤量均为12.79万吨，没有任何波动。
We can also track actual production using the average daily coal consumption of the five major power generation groups (the industry generally uses six major power generation groups per day). We have excluded the coal consumption data, mainly because the average daily coal consumption since February 7 has been 127,900 tons, with no fluctuations.
这既与其自身的历年变化规律有差异，也与其他五大发电集团在近期的数据表现有差异）。
This is not only different from its own annual variation, but also from the recent data performance of the other five power generation groups).
如图2所示，当前发电集团的耗煤量只有同期的50%左右。
As shown in Figure 2, coal consumption by current generation groups is only about 50 per cent of the same period.
图1 全国铁路每日客运量与过去两年对比数据来源：交通运输部，wind，经作者自行整理。
Figure 1 National rail daily passenger traffic in comparison with the past two years Source: Ministry of Transport, wind, compiled by the author himself.
t为春节当天。
t For Spring Festival Day.
图2 五大发电集团日均耗煤量与过去三年均值对比数据来源：交通运输部，wind，经作者自行整理。
Figure 2 Average daily coal consumption of the top five power generation groups over the past three years. Source: Ministry of Transport and Communications, wind.
t为春节当天。
t For Spring Festival Day.
此外，我们还可以用部分行业数据直接观察当下的生产状态：（1）全国主要钢厂的开工率低于过去三年同期水平10%，且仍在下跌（图3和图4）；（2）化工行业中，江浙地区涤纶长丝的开工率也低于过去三年同期水平20%左右，目前没有回升迹象（图5）；（3）纺织行业中，涤纶长丝对应的下游织机低于历年同期水平50%以上，2月6日当周只有5%的开工率，目前虽有复苏迹象，但进度比较缓慢（图6）。
In addition, some industry data can be used to directly observe the current state of production: (1) China's major steel mills than the same period of the past three years, and continue to decline (Figure 3 and Figure 4); (2) in the chemical industry, polyester filament lower than the same period in the past three years.
图3 主要钢厂开工率：线材数据来源：wind，经作者整理。
Fig. 3 Start-up rate of main steel mills: wire data source: wind, collated by author.
t为春节当周。
t Spring Festival is the week.
图4 主要钢厂开工率：螺纹钢数据来源：wind，经作者整理。
Fig. 4 Start-up rate of major steel mills: screw steel data source: wind, collated by the author.
t为春节当周。
t Spring Festival is the week.
图5 江浙地区涤纶长丝开工率数据来源：wind，经作者整理。
Fig. 5 Data source of polyester filament start-up rate in Jiangsu and Zhejiang region.
t为春节当周。
t Spring Festival is the week.
图6 江浙地区涤纶长丝下游织机开工率数据来源：wind，经作者整理。
Fig. 6 Data source of starting rate of polyester filament downstream in Jiangsu and Zhejiang: Wind, collated by author.
t为春节当周。
t Spring Festival is the week.
综上，无论是从人员到岗还是从生产状态来看，企业复产进度并不乐观。
Overall, whether from staff to work or from the state of production, the pace of the resumption of production is not optimistic.
全国铁路每日客运量和五大发电集团日均耗煤量等高频宏观数据表明，当下的复产仍在初期阶段，进展缓慢。
High-frequency macro data such as daily passenger volume and average daily coal consumption of five major power generation groups show that the current production is still in the early stages, progress is slow.
那么，企业到什么时候才能全面复产呢？人员返岗是全面复产的必要条件，对人员返流情况的评估是判断复产时间的重要依据。
Then, when will the enterprise be able to fully resume production? The return of personnel is a necessary condition for the full resumption of production, and the evaluation of the return flow of personnel is an important basis for judging the time of rebirth.
我们分别从存量和流量两个方面估算人员返流需要的时间。
We estimate the time needed for the reflux from two aspects: stock and flow.
流量方面，我们用过去三年春节前后的客流量作为基准，来判断正常状态下的铁路运力水平。
In terms of traffic, we used the passenger flow around the Spring Festival in the past three years as a benchmark to judge the normal level of railway capacity.
存量方面，我们用2018-2020三年里，春节前15天全国铁路客运总量作为基准。
Stock, we use 2018-2020, the Spring Festival before the 15-day total passenger rail as a benchmark.
根据过往经验，每年初五都是返程高峰期的开始，大致会持续到正月十六，这期间的返程客流量应该等于春运之前的返乡客流量。
According to past experience, the first five days of each year is the beginning of the return peak period, which will last until the 16th of the first month.
如表所示，过去两年春运前14天和初五到正月十六的客流存量数据基本一致。
As can be seen from the table, the passenger stock data of 14 days before spring transportation and 16 days from May to January are basically consistent.
而2020年节前返乡累计人次高达16亿人次，显著高于过去两年，但节后同期的返程累计人次仅为2131.9万人次。
By 2020, 1.6 billion people had returned home, a marked increase over the previous two years, but only 21.319 million had returned over the same period.
表1 2018-2020春节前后客运存量数据对比数据来源：交通运输部，经作者整理。
Table 1 Contrast data sources for passenger transport stock before and after the 2018-2020 Spring Festival: Ministry of Transport, organized by the author.
本轮复工始于2月10日，从2月19日起铁路客运量客回升速度较快。
The resumption of the current round of work began on 10 February, from 19 February railway passenger volume pick-up faster.
因此，我们以2月19日为起点，利用2月19日-2月26日的数据为基准，分别用线性外推和指数外推的方法，判断客运量恢复到正常状态所需要的时间，以及累计客运量达到节前存量水平所需要的时间，结果见图7（虚线位置为900万人次左右的客运量，衡量我国铁路运力的常态水平）和图8（虚线位置为1.22亿人次的累计客运量，是节前累计客运量1.62亿人次的75%。
Thus, using 19 February as the starting point and 19 February-26 February data as the baseline, we use linear extrapolation and exponential extrapolation, respectively, to judge the time it takes for passenger traffic to return to normal and the cumulative passenger capacity to reach pre-saving levels, as shown in figure 7.
乘以75%的原因是春运中民工和学生的比重大概是3:1）。
The reason for multiplying by 75% is that the proportion of migrant workers and students in the Spring Festival transportation is about 3: 1.
如图所示，即使按照指数增长，两者大致都要到3月20左右才能做到人员返流。
As the figure shows, even with exponential growth, it will take about March 20 for both to return.
根据现有的政策，外地返城人员需要自行在家隔离一段时间，不同地区执行的标准略有差异，从7天到14天不等。
Under the current policy, persons returning from the field are required to remain in isolation at home for a period of time, with some variations in the standards applied in different areas, ranging from 7 to 14 days.
如果我们假定中位数是10天，那么最终人员返流的时间至少要到3月底。
If we assume a median of 10 days, the end-user reflux will take at least until the end of March.
图7 全国铁路客运流量数据外推数据来源：交通运输部，经作者整理和计算。
Figure 7 Extrapolation of national rail passenger traffic data: Ministry of Transport, collated and calculated by the author.
图8 初五至今全国铁路客运村联跟数据外推数据来源：交通运输部，经作者整理和计算。
Fig. 8 From the fifth day of the National Railway Passenger Village Association and data extrapolation data sources: Ministry of Transport and Communications, the author collated and calculated.
接下来，我们利用历史数据来评估企业恢复正常生产状态所需要的时间。
Next, we use historical data to assess how long it will take for an enterprise to return to normal production.
首先，我们把复产所需要的时间分成三个部分，分别是停工时间、正常复产周期和延时系数。
First of all, we divide the time needed to resume production into three parts: downtime, normal rebirth period and delay factor.
停工时间是指本次产能利用率和开工数据的最低点与历史最低点之间的时滞，也就是2020年数据录得最低值的日期与过去三年同期内低点的时间差。
The downtime is the time lag between the lowest point in the current capacity utilization and start-up data and the lowest point in history, that is, the difference between the date of the lowest recorded value in 2020 and the low point in the same period in the past three years.
正常情况下，春节当天或者当周就是最低点，而此次由于防控的需要，许多企业在节后一段时间内无法开工，导致低点被迫推后。
Under normal circumstances, Spring Festival Day or the week is the lowest point, but this time, because of the need for prevention and control, many enterprises will not be able to start work after the holiday, causing low points to be pushed back.
目前，部分数据已经录得区间的最低值，如五大发电集团耗煤量和织机的开工率，但如螺纹钢开工率、线材开工率等还没有录得最低值，这意味着停工时间可能会有低估。
At present, some data have recorded the lowest values in the range, such as coal consumption of five power generation groups and the start-up rate of looms, but the lowest values have not been recorded for screw steel start-up, wire start-up, etc., which means that downtime may be underestimated.
正常复产周期是指过去三年内，相关指标从最低点回到节前正常水平所需要的天数。
Normal rebirth cycle refers to the number of days it takes for the indicator to return from its lowest point to normal pre-harvest levels in the past three years.
周度数据按照每周7天统一换算成了天数。
Weekly data are converted to days on a uniform basis, 7 days a week.
延时系数是指由于防控措施和供应链协调等因素，本轮企业复产的节奏会比正常的复产周期要长，因此需要乘以一个系数。
The time delay factor is that due to factors such as control measures and supply chain coordination, the recovery rate of this round of enterprises will be longer than the normal production cycle, so it needs to be multiplied by a coefficient.
我们假定本轮复产会比过去多用一倍的时间，即延时系数为2。
We assume that this cycle will take twice as long as in the past, that is, a delay factor of 2.
对于已经见底的指标，如果用先行外推的方法测算回升速度，并不支持延时系数为2的设定，实际上可能会更大一些。
For those indicators that have already bottomed out, if the recovery rate is measured by extrapolating first, the delay factor of 2 is not supported and may actually be larger.
因此，延时系数为2实际上是一个乐观估计。
Therefore, a delay factor of 2 is in fact an optimistic estimate.
综上可得，复产时间=停工时间+正常复产周期*延时系数。
In summary, time of rebirth = downtime + normal rebirth cycle * delay factor.
结果如表2所示，单位为天。
The results are shown in table 2 in days.
如表所示，根据我们测算的结果，表中的高频数据要恢复到历史的正常状态至少要两个月的时间，对应的复产时间是3月底。
As shown in the table, based on our calculations, it will take at least two months for the high frequency data in the table to return to historical normality, and the corresponding rebirth time is at the end of March.
表2 根据历年经验推算复产时间数据来源：wind，经作者整理和计算。
Table 2 Extrapolation of time-of-production data based on historical experience: wind, collated and calculated by the authors.
所有上述分析都依赖于各种假设，但也没有考虑实际复产中会遇到的各类困难。
All of the above analysis relies on various assumptions, but does not take into account the difficulties encountered in the actual reactivation.
而这些实际的困难或许会进一步增加复产的难度，延长复产的时间。
These practical difficulties may make it more difficult to resume production and increase the length of time it takes to resume production.
第一，尽快恢复生产秩序与防止疫情二次扩散的两难会越来越明显。
First, the dilemma of restoring production order as soon as possible and preventing the second spread of the epidemic will become more and more obvious.
当前的防控压力依然很大，许多劳务输出省份的基层政府和社区依然采用一刀切的方式防控疫情，省内和市内的基层交通也没有加速放开的迹象。
Current control pressure is still high, many labor-exporting provinces at the grass-roots level and communities continue to use a one-size-fits-all approach to prevent and control the epidemic, and there are no signs of accelerated liberalization of basic transport within the province and the city.
这些都大大限制了人员返程的速度。
These have significantly limited the speed of return movements.
而劳务输入省份中，有些地区的外输病例并没有减少，反而在不断增加，这进一步加剧了防控疫情与复产的矛盾。
In some provinces, the number of cases of outmigration has not decreased, but is increasing, which further aggravates the conflict between the prevention and control of the epidemic and the resumption of production.
第二，新冠病毒开始出现在全球范围的扩散趋势，尤其是日本、韩国的新冠疫情发展态势不容乐观。
Second, the new crown virus began to appear in the global trend of proliferation, especially in Japan, South Korea's new crown epidemic development situation is not optimistic.
中日韩三国是东亚生产体系中最关键的参与者，也是全球供应链中的重要组成部分。
China, Japan and South Korea are the most critical players in the East Asian production system and an important part of the global supply chain.
这会加大全球供应链协调的难度并减少海外订单，给企业恢复生产和现金流带来不确定性。
This will make global supply-chain coordination more difficult and reduce overseas orders, creating uncertainty for businesses to resume production and cash flow.
第三，国内供应链的相互协调也给复工复产增加了难度。
Third, the coordination of domestic supply chains also makes it more difficult to resume production.
进入复产阶段后，上下游企业需要互相确认各自的供货能力和订单支付能力等等，这又会减缓国内生产秩序恢复到正常状态的步伐。
After entering the rehabilitation stage, the upstream and downstream enterprises need to confirm with each other their respective supply capacity and order payment ability, which will slow down the return of domestic production order to normal.
二、哪些行业可能受到疫情的冲击更大？为防控新冠疫情，现有的政策对人员流动、货物流动和资金流动都产生了负面影响。
II. Which industries are likely to be more affected by the epidemic? To prevent and control the new crown, existing policies have had a negative impact on the movement of people, goods and capital flows.
由于各行业间的差异，其受到疫情冲击的程度也不一样。
Because of differences between industries, they are also affected by the epidemic to varying degrees.
我们仅考虑各个行业对人员流动、货物流动和资金流动的敏感程度，可以得出一个逻辑判断：劳动密集型、供应链较长、资金链偏紧的行业会受到更大的冲击。
By looking only at the sensitivity of industries to the movement of people, goods and capital flows, we can draw a logical conclusion: industries that are labour-intensive, with long supply chains and tight financial chains will be hit harder.
我们用如下指标分别衡量不同行业的劳动密集程度、供应链长短和现金流，并探讨哪些行业可能受到疫情的冲击更大。
We used the following indicators to measure labour intensity, supply chain length and cash flow in different sectors, and to explore which sectors might be more affected by the epidemic.
（1）劳动密集度的测度。
(1) Measurement of labour intensity.
我们利用最新2018年的经济普查数据，用第二产业中各行业的从业人员数量除以法人单位数量，得到一个关于行业劳动密集度的排序。
Using data from the latest economic census in 2018, we used the number of workers in each industry in the secondary sector divided by the number of legal entities to obtain a ranking of the industry's labour intensity.
这种方法可能存在的问题是：个别行业会因为特殊原因而出现单位法人从业人员数量特别高的情况，如石油加工业，因此我们在分析中剔除了该行业。
The problem with this approach is that particular industries, such as the oil processing industry, have a particularly high number of corporate employees for specific reasons, so we have excluded the industry from our analysis.
不过，整体来看，这种方法依然是符合常识判断的。
Taken as a whole, however, this approach is still based on common sense.
（2）供应链的测度。
(2) Measurement of the supply chain.
测度供应链的目的是为了比较不同行业协调供应链的难易程度。
The purpose of measuring the supply chain is to compare the ease with which different industries coordinate supply chains.
相对而言，下游行业会面对更长的供应链，这背后的含义是下游产品往往需要更多的中间品投入。
In contrast, downstream industries face longer supply chains, meaning that downstream products often require more intermediate inputs.
我们利用最近一次公布的2017年投入产出表数据，计算各行业的完全消耗系数来衡量行业的上游度。
Using input-output table data from 2017, which was last published, we calculated the total consumption factor for each industry to measure the industry's upstream.
上游度越大，说明需要来自其他行业的投入比例越高，行业就越偏下游。
The higher the upstream, the higher the proportion of inputs required from other industries, the more downstream the industry.
此处需要说明的是，有些行业，如农副产品加工、酒水饮料和烟草行业，并不需要许多其他部门的投入，在界定上下游时会存在偏差。
It is important to note here that some industries, such as agro-by-product processing, alcoholic beverages and tobacco, do not require input from many other sectors, and there are biases in defining upstream and downstream.
但整体来看，这种方法给出的行业排序是符合常识的。
But, taken as a whole, the sort of industry ranking given by this method is common sense.
（3）现金流的测度。
(3) Measurement of cash flow.
不同行业根据自身的生产和经营特点，所需要的现金流绝对数量差异很大，因此我们从周转率的角度出发，构建了两个比例指标来衡量的不同行业对现金流的敏感程度。
The absolute amount of cash flow that different industries need varies greatly according to their production and management characteristics, so we construct two ratio indexes to measure the sensitivity of different industries to cash flow from the angle of turnover.
我们先用2019年末各行业的“流动资产-应收账款-存货”，来大致估算各行业的现金规模。
We start with the end of 2019 "current assets - receivables - inventory" industry by industry to approximate the size of the cash industry.
然后，用现金规模分别除以该行业当年的利息支出和营业收入，得到“现金/利息支出”，“现金/营业收入”两个比率。
The cash size is then divided by the industry's interest payments and operating income for the year to obtain the ratio of "cash / interest expenses" to "cash / operating income."
最后，我们用主成分分析法，得到这两个序列的主成分序列，以此作为衡量行业现金流紧张程度的指标。
Finally, we use principal component analysis (PCA) to obtain the principal component sequences of the two sequences as an indicator of the degree of cash flow stress in the industry.
我们将上述结果分别放到了两张图中，考察哪些行业同时满足其中的两项或者三项，结果见图9和图10。
We put the results into two graphs, looking at which industries meet two or three at the same time. The results are shown in figures 9 and 10.
如图所示，疫情防控给纺织服装行业和化工行业带来的压力是最大的，同时满足三项条件。
As the picture shows, the epidemic prevention and control of the textile and clothing industry and the chemical industry is the greatest pressure, while meeting three conditions.
其次是，汽车行业、通讯行业和部分设备制造业，因为这些行业偏中下游，协调供应链的难度相对更大，同时劳动密集程度也更高。
Second, the automotive, communications, and parts of the equipment manufacturing industries are relatively more difficult and labour-intensive to coordinate supply chains because of their mid- and downstream orientation.
特别是湖北是国内汽车产业链的重要基地之一，对汽车行业的冲击更加直接。
Hubei, in particular, is one of the important bases of domestic automobile industry chain, and the impact on automobile industry is more direct.
图9 不同行业上游度和劳动密集度的对比图10 不同行业上游度和现金流的对比三、以积极的财政政策对冲疫情冲击当前，在维持必要防控的情况下尽快复产已经成为社会各界的普遍共识。
Figure 9 Comparison of Upstream Degree and Labor Intensity of Different Industries Figure 10 Comparison of Upstream and Cash Flow of Different Industries With Active Fiscal Policy to Hit the Current Epidemic Attack, It has become a common consensus of the community to resume production as soon as possible while maintaining necessary control.
中央多次下达促进企业复产的指示，各级地方政府也纷纷相应，最高的省份公布的复工率已经超过90%。
The central government has repeatedly issued directives to promote the resumption of production by enterprises, and local governments at all levels have followed suit, with the highest number of provinces announcing a return to work rate of over 90%.
严格来说，复工和复产是两个含义完全不同的概念，复工只是复产的第一步，意味着企业结束了关门的状态。
Strictly speaking, resumption of work and rehabilitation are two completely different concepts. Resumption of work is only the first step towards the resumption of production, which means the closure of the enterprise is over.
我们真正关心的是，在迈出第一步之后，后边的路究竟会怎么走，走多快。
What we really care about is how and how fast the road ahead will go after that first step.
从现有的数据和我们的分析结果来看，企业的复产之路充满不确定性。
From the available data and our analysis results, the road of enterprise recovery is full of uncertainty.
接下来会如何演化，既取决于企业的自救措施，更取决于政府能否为复产提供一个相对友好的宏观环境。
How it evolves depends as much on companies "self-help efforts as it does on whether the government can provide a relatively friendly macro environment for the resumption of production.
最关键的是财政政策要更加积极。
Crucially, fiscal policy needs to be more active.
应对突发事件时，货币政策往往显得心有余而力不足，因为货币政策是典型的总量政策，传导机制复杂，政策效果的时滞较长。
When dealing with emergencies, monetary policy tends to be weak, because monetary policy is a typical aggregate policy, the transmission mechanism is complex, and the policy effect is delayed for a long time.
相比之下，财政政策更加直接，也更加灵活。
By contrast, fiscal policy is more direct and flexible.
同时，疫情的防控是国家大事，理应由中央财政承担更多的支出。
At the same time, the prevention and control of the epidemic is a matter of national importance.
当前地方财政的收支压力已经很大，此次疫情爆发让地方财政状况雪上加霜。
Local budgets are already under pressure, and the outbreak of the epidemic is adding to local finances.
地方财政为防控疫情的支出在增加，同时税收收入和土地出让收入在减少。
Local governments are spending more to control the epidemic, while tax revenues and land concessions are falling.
此时，如果不能稳定地方政府的财政预期，既会打击地方政府恢复经济的动力和能力，还有可能打破近年来刚巩固起来的地方财政举债纪律。
At this point, failure to stabilize the fiscal expectations of local governments could both undermine the incentive and ability of local governments to restore the economy and potentially break the discipline of local fiscal borrowing that has only recently been consolidated.
因此，财政政策在现有基础上应该更加积极，而不必过多顾虑道德风险问题。
Therefore, fiscal policy should be more active than it already is, without much concern for moral hazard.
特别是中央财政应该承担更多的责任，稳定地方政府的财政预期，并借此机会重新理顺地方政府和企业部门的激励机制。
In particular, central finance should assume more responsibility for stabilizing local governments "fiscal expectations, and take this opportunity to reorganize incentives for local governments and the corporate sector.
何帆为上海交通大学安泰经济与管理学院教授、熵一资本首席经济学家，朱鹤为熵一资本全球宏观研究院副院长，编辑：苏琦▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
He Fan is a professor at the Antai School of Economics and Management at Shanghai Jiao Tong University, and chief economist Entropy-Capital. Zhu Hee is vice-dean of Entropy-Capital Global Macroscopical Research Institute.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
积极应对新冠疫情对宏观经济的外部冲击。
Actively deal with the external macroeconomic impact of the new crown epidemic.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "积极应对新冠疫情对宏观经济的外部冲击";。
var msg _ title = & quot; responded positively to & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "企业的复产之路充满不确定性。
var msg _ desc = & quot; the company's path to recovery is fraught with uncertainty.
接下来会如何演化，既取决于企业的自救措施，更取决于政府能否为复产提供一个相对友好的宏观环境。
How it evolves depends as much on companies "self-help efforts as it does on whether the government can provide a relatively friendly macro environment for the resumption of production.
最关键的是财政政策要更加积极";。
Crucially, fiscal policy should have been more aggressively pursued;;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
