李铁：以疫情防控为契机，建立新的大数据服务体系。
Li Tie: Take epidemic prevention and control as an opportunity to establish a new big data service system.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 财经E法。
The following article comes from the financial E method.
Author 李铁。
Author Li Tie.
财经E法。
Financial E-Law.
财经E法是脱胎于《财经》杂志的原创内容品牌，我们关注互联网行业中的法治、治理和伦理话题。
Finance E is an original content brand created by Caijing magazine. We focus on the rule of law, governance and ethics in the Internet industry.
。
.
经过这次疫情危机，一些互联网大数据企业可以利用新的数据源展开商业和社会服务;政府也可以把数据服务交给市场，建立新的数据源管理方式，提高应对城市和社会治理，以及各种突发性危机的效率，并降低成本文|李铁这次防控新冠肺炎疫情，主要面临的问题是对传播风险的严格防范。
As a result of the epidemic, some large Internet data companies have access to new data sources for business and social services; governments can also hand over data services to markets, create new ways of managing data sources, improve efficiency in responding to urban and social governance, and sudden-onset crises, and reduce costs and costs.
由于人口流动规模大，范围广，涉及全国甚至国际，如何追踪潜在病毒传播人群，掌握更为准确地信息，对于各级城市政府和地方政府都是严峻的考验。
Because of the scale and scope of population movements, involving both the national and international levels, tracking the potential transmission of the virus and obtaining more accurate information will be a severe test for municipal and local governments at all levels.
目前，能看到的措施大多是用传统的办法严防死守，通过基层社区、企事业单位和机构组织等，进行严密管理，甚至不惜让企业和单位停工停业停产，要求所有的人居家自我隔离和封闭。
At present, most of the measures that can be observed are strictly guarded by traditional means, closely managed through grass-roots communities, enterprises, institutions, etc., even at the expense of closing down enterprises and organizations and requiring all people to isolate and close their homes.
甚至有的城市要求，每个家庭每天只能有一个人可以外出两小时。
Even some cities require only one person per day for each family to be able to go out for two hours.
这些措施，对于防止疫情的迅速传播，作用是十分明显的，但是也付出了巨大的社会成本和经济成本。
These measures, while clearly effective in preventing the rapid spread of the epidemic, have also incurred enormous social and economic costs.
调整传统思维模式，更多依赖新技术和新信息源随着信息革命和互联网的发展，在城市化高速增长的过程中，很多城市都在追逐现代化的愿景，提出了建立“信息城市”“智慧城市”和“数据城市”的目标，并且投入了巨额资金，现在绝大部分城市都建立了数据中心和信息平台。
With the information revolution and the development of the Internet, many cities are pursuing the vision of modernization, and have invested huge sums of money in building "information cities," "smart cities" and "data cities." Most cities now have data centers and information platforms.
但是，在我们看到的疫情防控案例中，这些平台在对疫情传播的监测和跟踪中到底发挥了多少作用，还有巨大的潜力需要挖掘。
However, in the cases of epidemic prevention and control that we have seen, there is still great potential to be tapped as to how much these platforms have played in monitoring and tracking the spread of the epidemic.
原因在于，当初投资建立的这些信息平台和数据中心，仍然利用的是传统数据源。
The reason is that the information platforms and data centres that were originally invested in still use traditional data sources.
也就是说，所谓的数据都是来自于政府内部机构的上报数据。
In other words, the so-called data comes from reported data from government agencies.
例如统计局的普查和抽样数据，各个部门和企业的上报数据等等。
Examples include the Census and Sample Data of the Bureau of Statistics, reported data from various sectors and enterprises, etc.
这些数据作为经济社会发展年度分析报告的支撑，曾经发挥了重要作用。
These data, which underpin the annual economic and social development analysis, have played an important role.
但是遇到了波及全国范围的如此重大的的公共卫生安全危机，这些上报的数据由于时效问题，很难发挥作用。
But with a public-health security crisis of such magnitude nationwide, these reported figures are difficult to come by because of time constraints.
因为要掌握人口的流动状况和空间位置，如果按照传统的数据来源，必须再次动员全社会的力量，成本巨大，而且信息的准确性也存在很大问题。
Because of the mobility and spatial location of the population, the need to remobilize society as a whole, based on traditional data sources, is costly and the accuracy of information is highly questionable.
这说明，我们面临着科学技术的快速发展，建立的城市数据中心和信息平台，需要发挥新的信息源数据源的作用。
This shows that we face the rapid development of science and technology, the establishment of urban data centers and information platforms, need to play the role of new sources of information data.
这次疫情迅速传播带来的压力已经提醒了我们，面对未来的城市社会治理和公共卫生安全等一系列问题，必须调整原有的思维模式，更多依赖于新技术和新信息源，才能最终达到服务于全社会以及所有城乡居民的效果。
The pressures of the rapid spread of the epidemic have reminded us of the need to adapt the mindset and rely more on new technologies and sources of information in the face of a range of future issues, such as urban social governance and public health security, in order to ultimately serve society as a whole and all urban and rural residents alike.
什么是新的信息源和数据源？其实就是以互联网、移动数据以及手机信令的空间位置信息为基础，以所有个体用户为主体形成的信息源和数据源。
What is the new information source and data source? It is based on the spatial location information of Internet, mobile data and mobile phone signaling.
简单来说，每个成年人，包括部分少年儿童，都离不开手机和网络。
Simply put, every adult, including some teenagers, is dependent on cell phones and the Internet.
手机的空间定位信息是自动生成的，而网络消费中的各种定位也是经过个人授权后被网络运营商所采用的。
The spatial location information of mobile phone is generated automatically, and all kinds of positioning in network consumption are adopted by network operators after individual authorization.
这些基于每个人的手机信令和网络数据的信息源，同时也就构成了所谓覆盖最广的数据源。
These information sources, which are based on each person's cell phone signaling and network data, constitute the so-called most widely covered data sources.
所谓大数据，并不仅包含传统的上报信息，更多的是覆盖全社会的以互联网和手机信令为基础的数据源。
The so-called big data, not only contains the traditional report information, more is the whole society based on the Internet and mobile phone signaling data sources.
在信息源和数据源中，谁的覆盖面广，数据源多，谁的社会消费影响力就越大，未来可开发的数据潜力也越突出。
In information sources and data sources, the wider the coverage and data sources, the greater the influence of social consumption and the greater the potential for future data exploitation.
以疫情为契机，建立新的数据服务体系据统计，目前网络信息源占有优势的是腾讯、阿里巴巴、百度、京东等几家大的互联网企业，2019年腾讯微信月活跃用户9.91亿；阿里巴巴移动端月活跃用户达7.85亿，支付宝月活跃用户已经超过6.5亿；百度APP月活用户3.16亿；京东活跃购买用户3.34亿；此外，抖音月活用户达到了6.5亿。
According to statistics, Tencent, Alibaba, Baidu and Jingdong are the most powerful Internet companies, with 991 million active users; Alibaba Mobile has 785 million active users and Alipay has more than 650 million active users; Baidu APP has 316 million active monthly users; Jingdong has 334 million active users; and the number of active voice users has reached 650 million.
而手机信息源占有优势的是中国移动、中国联通和中国电信，它们的手机用户分别达到9.47亿、3.21亿和3.34亿，分占全国手机用户的59.2%、20%和20.8%。
China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom have 947 million, 321 million and 334 million cellphone subscribers, accounting for 59.2 percent, 20 percent and 20.8 percent, respectively.
网络信息数据和手机信令数据相比，在日常应用过程中，显然是网络用户占有优势。
Compared with cell phone signaling data, network users clearly have the advantage in the daily application process.
单就一个互联网企业，例如腾讯或是阿里巴巴的信息用户，就可以达到与中国移动用户相当的规模，而且应用范围十分广泛。
A single Internet company, such as Tencent or Alibaba's users of information, can reach a scale comparable to that of Chinese mobile users and has a wide range of applications.
但是从全覆盖角度看，特别是在这次疫情传播危机中对于潜在感染者的追踪，显然网络数据的覆盖能力相比之下弱于手机用户的覆盖能力。
But when it comes to full coverage, especially tracking potential infections in the context of the epidemic's spreading crisis, it is clear that the coverage of network data is weaker than that of mobile phone users.
因为对于网络用户来说，一个手机可以同时提供许多个网络服务的定位，但是所有网络服务都离不开手机。
For network users, a mobile phone can provide the location of many network services at the same time, but all network services are inseparable from mobile phones.
也就是说，无论是腾讯和阿里，即使各自用户都覆盖了中国60-70%的人口。
That is, both Tencent and Ali, even though their users cover 60-70% of China's population.
但是仅此而已。
But that's all.
两者即使相加，总用户还是这么多，所以空间定位无法做到全覆盖。
Even if the two add up, the total number of users, so space positioning can not achieve full coverage.
对于手机用户来说，虽然总的手机用户可以达到16亿多，超出了中国的总人口。
For cell phone users, though, the total number of mobile phone users can reach more than 1.6 billion, more than the total population of China.
但是三大运营商的手机用户是无法重叠的，即使有一人多机现象，也很难改变用户的总规模。
But the big three operators' cellphone users are unable to overlap, even if there is more than one phenomenon, it is difficult to change the overall size of users.
可以说，中国移动、中国联通和中国电信的手机用户加总，基本可以覆盖全国所有用户。
It can be said that China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom's mobile phone users add up, basically can cover all users in the country.
从这个意义上来说，手机用户相比于互联网用户更可以做到全覆盖。
In this sense, mobile phone users are better able to achieve full coverage than Internet users.
从生活实际中也可以看到，除了少儿之外，几乎所有成年人都离不开手机。
It can also be seen from the reality of life, except for children, almost all adults are inseparable from mobile phones.
因为手机信令可以做到空间和人口全覆盖，通过手机信令的大数据系统，对人口空间移动进行全方位追踪是可以实现的。
Because cell phone signaling can achieve full coverage of space and population, it is possible to track the spatial movement of population in all directions through the large data system of cell phone signaling.
只要把三大手机运营商的信令数据统筹使用，我们就可能完成真正基于大数据的城市治理。
By integrating the signaling data of the three major mobile operators, we can achieve truly big-data-based urban governance.
手机信令的追踪能力可以做到对任何一个持有人，无论是开机还是关机，一天24小时的持续定位。
Cell phone signaling tracking capabilities can be achieved for any one holder, whether on or off, 24 hours a day continuous location.
我们不仅可以对个人的行动轨迹进行跟踪，而且可以对城市的人群进行数据化的分析。
We can not only track the movement of individuals, but also carry out data analysis of the urban population.
例如，一个城市在过去半年内有多少人口，哪些是外来的，哪些是本地的，通过手机号码的实名认证，就可以得出结果。
For example, the number of people in a city in the past six months, which are foreign and which are local, can be verified by the real name of the mobile phone number.
在半年的数据保存时间内，可以对人口的流向，空间位置的聚集，做出准确的分析。
In half a year of data storage time, the flow of the population, the spatial location of the aggregation, to make an accurate analysis.
出于疫情防控的需要，从手机信令入手，只需把三大运营商的数据拿来，对于武汉市在疫情初始传播到高发期间，有多少手机用户在本地，有多少是外地手机用户，就可以清楚地了解疫情涉及到的人群规模和具体的人员情况。
Because of the need of epidemic prevention and control, it is only necessary to use the data of the three major operators. It is possible to get a clear picture of the size of the population and the number of mobile phone users in Wuhan during the initial epidemic period.
如果要进一步了解这些手机用户的空间变动情况，只要把这些外地和本地外出人员的手机号，特别是封城前的流动信息，通过疫情重点城市分别上报三大公司总部并发往各地公司，各地就可以根据这些手机信令数据来随时监测这些疫区外出人员的行踪。
If you want to know more about the spatial changes of these mobile phone users, it is only necessary to report the mobile phone numbers of the outbound and outbound people, especially the mobile information before sealing the city, through the key cities of the epidemic to the three main companies and to the companies everywhere, the mobile phone signaling data can be used to monitor the whereabouts of people outside these epidemic areas.
要做到这些，既需要三大手机运营商动员全国基层公司，提供准确数据源，同时也需要相关的公司来进行大数据模型运算，建立规模人群的追踪监测系统。
To do this, three major mobile phone operators need to mobilize national grassroots companies, provide accurate data sources, but also need relevant companies to carry out large data model operations, establish a crowd tracking system.
这样就可以清楚地得到最终的人口流向和发现疫情传播的轨迹，为全国各地的疫情防范提供最准确有效的数据源。
In this way, we can get a clear picture of the final population flow and find the spread of the epidemic trajectory, providing the most accurate and effective data source for epidemic prevention throughout the country.
通过这种方式，可以大大减轻各地政府的压力，减少社会成本，实现有效精准地疫情防控。
In this way, governments around the world can greatly reduce pressure, reduce social costs, achieve effective and accurate disease prevention and control.
在动员三大手机运营商的基础上，也可以通过各级政府，要求各地网络运营商提供网络信息数据，对手机信令数据源进行补充。
On the basis of mobilizing the three mobile phone operators, we can also request the local network operators to provide network information data to supplement the mobile phone signaling data source.
这样可以强化数据的监测能力，防止遗漏。
This would enhance the monitoring capacity of the data and prevent omissions.
当然，对于手机运营商和网络运营商来说，会加大工作量和投入。
Of course, for mobile phone operators and network operators, will increase the workload and investment.
但是政府的防疫总动员，可以提供专项投入予以支持。
But the general mobilization of the government for epidemic prevention may provide special input to support it.
各个企业也可以把对灾区的支持，体现在数据源的支持上。
Individual enterprises can also support disaster areas, reflected in the support of data sources.
对于各级地方城市政府，这无疑也是一次最好的机会。
There is no doubt that this is the best opportunity for local city governments.
就是利用这次疫情灾害，重新建立起面向全社会的数据服务体系，改革传统的数据搜集方法，建立以互联网和信息技术为中心，以用户数据源为基础的真正的大数据系统。
It is to take advantage of this epidemic disaster, re-establish the data service system for the whole society, reform the traditional data collection method, establish the real big data system based on the user data source with Internet and information technology as the center.
把政府的信息平台和数据平台融合。
Integration of government information platforms and data platforms.
从只针对政府的服务，转向为针对全社会的服务，特别是可以应付各种可能出现的各种社会危机。
Shift from government-specific services to services for society as a whole, particularly in response to potential social crises.
对于手机运营商和互联网企业来说，通过整合数据源，真正地放大了数据利用渠道，从企业自身的需要和满足于社会责任的需要，使得长期被沉淀甚至浪费的数据源得到充分地利用，而且在数据全覆盖的过程中发现新的商业机会和社会服务机会。
For mobile phone operators and Internet companies, the integration of data sources has truly magnified data access channels, enabled the long-term precipitation and even waste of data sources to be fully exploited, and identified new business opportunities and social service opportunities in the process of full data coverage, from the enterprise's own needs and the need to be satisfied with social responsibility.
一些有能力提供数据服务的企业，则可以利用这次数据整合进行深入研发，建立新型的社会公众服务和商业服务的数据信息平台。
Some enterprises with the ability to provide data services can use this data integration for in-depth research and development to establish a new kind of social public services and business services data information platform.
中央政府一方面也可以在在疫情危机中，有效利用手机和网络数据源，通过购买服务的方式，支持企业的数据储存库建设。
On the one hand, the central government can make effective use of mobile phones and network data sources in the epidemic crisis, and support the construction of enterprise data repositories by purchasing services.
各个手机运营商和网络运营商，因为数据储存会占用资金和资源，大多都在半年或最多两年内就删除过往数据。
Mobile phone operators and network operators, because data storage takes up money and resources, most delete data from the past within six months or up to two years.
如果中央政府支持企业建立数据储备库，对于手机运营商和网络运营商长期闲置和浪费的数据资源应该是一次最好的再生和无限利用机会，可以为国家和城市以及各类企业进行更为广泛的服务。
If the central government supports companies in building data banks, the long-idle and wasteful data resources of mobile phone operators and network operators should be a prime opportunity for renewal and unlimited access to a wider range of services for countries and cities, as well as for businesses of all kinds.
另一方面，也可以经过这次疫情危机，一些互联网大数据企业可以成立新的公司，利用新的数据源展开商业和社会服务，政府也可以把数据服务交给市场，形成新的数据源管理方式，提高应对城市和社会治理，以及各种突发性危机的效率，并降低成本。
On the other hand, it is also possible that, as a result of the epidemic crisis, some large Internet data companies can start new companies, use new data sources for business and social services, and governments can hand over data services to markets, develop new ways of managing data sources, improve efficiency in responding to urban and social governance and sudden-onset crises, and reduce costs.
（作者为中国城市和小城镇改革发展中心首席经济学家，编辑：朱弢）▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
(The writer is a chief economist at the Center for Reform and Development of Chinese Cities and Small Towns, editor Taoho.) Click here to find out more about the epidemic report responsibilities and services; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article by Caijing magazine.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
李铁：以疫情防控为契机，建立新的大数据服务体系。
Li Tie: Take epidemic prevention and control as an opportunity to establish a new big data service system.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "李铁：以疫情防控为契机，建立新的大数据服务体系";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Li: AT & amp; # 39; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp;
var msg_desc = "经过这次疫情危机，一些互联网大数据企业可以利用新的数据源展开商业和社会服务;政府也可以把数据服务交给市场，建立新的数据源管理方式，提高应对城市和社会治理，以及各种突发性危机的效率，并降低成本";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; As a result of the epidemic, some large Internet data companies have access to new data sources for business and social services; or governments can hand over data services to markets, create new ways of managing data sources, improve efficiency in responding to urban and social governance, and sudden crises, and reduce costs and fees;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
