还原首例新冠肺炎逝者尸检前后。
To restore the first dead patients with Newcomial Pneumonia before and after autopsy.
严徽因。
Yan Huiyin.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
2月28日，《法医学杂志》发布了《新型冠状病毒肺炎死亡尸体系统解剖大体观察报告》。
February 28, the Journal of Forensic Medicine published the "New Coronavirus pneumonia dead body system autopsy gross observation report."
这是新冠肺炎爆发以来的首例完整的尸体解剖。
This is the first complete autopsy since the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia.
该例尸检的参与者刘良曾经说过：“解剖的必要性之一，就是要弄明白这个病毒是通过什么机制让肺受到损伤的。
"One of the reasons for the autopsy is to understand how the virus causes lung damage," said Liu Liang, a participant in the autopsy.
如果死亡病例一直都没有进行解剖，基本上就搞不清楚对手打击你的方向，就容易茫然。
If the case of death has not been carried out anatomy, basically do not know the way your opponent hit you, it is easy to daze.
”但在专业人士的眼里，相比2003年SARS，新冠肺炎的第一例尸检却姗姗来迟。
But in the eyes of professionals, the first autopsy of pneumonia came too late, compared with SARS in 2003.
记者｜严岩实习记者｜张锦尸检的价值2月15日晚上9点，法医刘良接到了金银潭院长张定宇的电话。
reporter, yeg Yan Yan: The value of an autopsy, February 15 At 9 p.m., forensic doctor Liu Liang received a telephone call from Zhang Dingyu, dean of the gold and silver pool.
终于，有一例新冠肺炎患者的遗体可供解剖。
Finally, the remains of a patient with New Crown Pneumonia were available for autopsy.
刘良是华中科技大学同济医学院法医学系教授，早在1月22日他就公开发文，强调对新冠患者进行病理解剖的必要性：“死亡病例上千，尚无一例病理解剖。
As early as January 22, Liu Liang, a professor in the Department of Forensic Medicine at the Tongji School of Medicine at Huazhong University of Science and Technology, spoke publicly about the need for a pathologic autopsy of new crowns: "There are thousands of deaths, not a single case of anatomy
病理学是疾病诊断的金标准，早一天做至少可以多救几个人吧。
Pathology is the gold standard for disease diagnosis. Do it at least a few more times a day early.
”而从呼吁到真正予以施行尸体解剖，中间隔了大半个月的时间。
The interval between the call and the actual autopsy was about half a month.
王慧君是2003年主刀首例SARS患者遗体解剖的法医，她在一篇文章《从SARS-CoV到SARS-CoV-2：法医传染病尸体检验的应对与挑战》中提到，同为冠状病毒的SARS早在首例死亡病例出现后不久就开展了尸体检验，检验报告和病理发现一经发布，即为指导临床治疗提供了有效帮助。
Wang Huijun, a forensic physician who performed the first autopsy of a SARS patient in 2003, mentioned that SARS, also known as coronavirus, conducted a post-mortem examination soon after the first case of coronavirus, and that examination reports and pathologic findings, once published, provided effective guidance for clinical treatment.
而此次新冠肺炎病亡人数已逾数千例，却依然缺乏关于这个疾病尸体检验的系统报道，此次的尸检工作确有缺位。
With more than a few thousand deaths, there is still no systematic report of a autopsy of the disease, which is missing.
刘良也曾撰文指出SARS期间病理学的价值体现，“刚开始时，专家们都认为衣原体是其病原体，直到对 SARS死者解剖后检见病毒包涵体，且肺泡隔无明显增宽等病理学改变，结合SARS患者病情重、死亡率高、应用抗生素无效，综合判断认为符合病毒性肺炎的病理学特点，这才最终有力支持了广东专家组提出的‘非典病原是病毒，不是衣原体’的论断。
Liu Liang also wrote about the value of pathology during SARS. "At the beginning, experts thought chlamydia was the pathogen until the pathologic changes such as detection of viral inclusion body after autopsy of SARS deceased and no obvious enlargement of alveolar septum were found.
”而目前新冠肺炎的临床治疗方面确实出现了一些尚待解释的问题。
However, there are still some unexplained problems in the clinical treatment of new crown pneumonia.
有说法称，呼吸内科医生与ICU医生在临床上存在一个争议：是否有必要对患者做早期气管切开进行辅助呼吸？这个问题的答案，就需要明确患者肺部出现痰栓的成因。
The answer to a clinical dispute between a respiratory physician and an ICU doctor about the need for early tracheotomy to assist in breathing is a question that needs to be clarified about the cause of the sputum thrombosis in the lungs.
还有一些病人从轻症到危重症的转变过程相当迅速，这些问题也许可以通过病理解剖知道，到底是由新冠病毒单独造成的，还是由人体免疫细胞在抗击新冠病毒时候共同作用造成的。
There are also patients who are undergoing a rapid transition from mild to critical conditions, which may be determined by a pathologic study of whether it is caused by the new crown virus alone or by a combination of human immune cells acting together in the fight against the new crown virus.
因此系统性的尸检就显得尤其必要——通过对死亡个体的解剖可以直观地观察各组织器官，也有助于发现病毒感染后机体病变的性质、部位、严重程度等。
Therefore, systematic autopsy is especially necessary - through the autopsy of dead individuals can be intuitively observed tissues and organs, but also help to find the nature, location, severity and other diseases of the body after infection.
通过尸检，可能更加了解这个疾病的死亡机制。
Through autopsies, it is possible to better understand the mechanisms of death from the disease.
现阶段，遗体解剖到底有多难？既然SARS期间已经证明了做遗体解剖的必要性，那为何疫情发展至今才刚开始做？曾在2003年非典期间主导首例SARS患者尸检的王慧君在文章中提到，“解剖间的设施要求，可能是在武汉迟迟不能完成尸检的掣肘问题之一。
At this stage, how difficult is the autopsy of the remains? Since the SARS period has proved the need for autopsy, then why is the epidemic only just beginning? "Wang Huijun, who led the first autopsy of SARS patients during SARS in 2003, said in an article that" the facility requirements in the anatomy room may be one of the constraints in completing the autopsy in Wuhan.
如果拘泥于苛刻的条件要求，全国大概只有北京地坛医院的解剖间能够满足。
If the strict requirements, the country will probably only be able to meet the Beijing DiTan Hospital anatomy room.
但即便是这个解剖间也因为维护的原因目前尚未见启用。
But even this anatomy room has not yet been activated for maintenance reasons.
”“我们医院过去也有解剖间，后来因为诸多原因几乎不用了。
"" We used to have an anatomy room in the hospital, but for a lot of reasons we didn't use it anymore.
”北京佑安医院病理科医生王欣欣告诉本刊。
Beijing YouAn Hospital pathologist Wang Xinxin told the print.
北京佑安是一家三甲传染病专科医院，也是此次北京市针对新冠肺炎的首批定点医院之一。
Beijing YouAn is a special hospital for triple A infectious diseases and one of the first designated hospitals in Beijing for the new crown pneumonia.
“现在新冠肺炎这种烈性传染病，别说是解剖了，哪怕是做咽拭子的病毒扩增检测，都要求在P2级别的生物安全实验室进行，尸检所需的解剖间至少也得这种级别。
"Right now, the SARS outbreak, let alone an autopsy, requires that even an expanded pharyngeal swab test be done in a P-2 biosafety laboratory and that the autopsy requires at least the same level of anatomy.
这种级别的解剖间维护成本太高，用的就少。
This level of inter-anatomical maintenance costs are too high, and use is less.
”解剖间维护费高并不必然导致解剖间的“闲置”，更根本的原因与其使用率低有关。
The high cost of inter-anatomical maintenance does not necessarily lead to "idleness" in anatomy, but is more fundamentally related to its low usage.
《中华医学杂志》2011年刊登了一篇中国各地尸检解剖率差异的文章，作者是病理学家朱明华。
In 2011, the Chinese Medical Journal published an article on differences in autopsy rates across China, by pathologist Zhu Minghua.
他提到，“尸检在临床医学、流行病学和公共卫生学的发展中发挥独特的作用。
"Autopsies play a unique role in the development of clinical medicine, epidemiology and public health," he said.
尸体解剖的普遍程度，在一定意义上反映了一个国家的科学文化发展水平。
The prevalence of autopsy in a certain sense reflects a country's level of scientific and cultural development.
但过去几十年间，全世界范围内的尸检率一直在下降。
But autopsy rates have been declining worldwide over the past few decades.
中国在1950年到1970年之间的尸检率最高，此后尸检率持续下降。
China had the highest autopsy rate between 1950 and 1970, and has seen a steady decline since then.
”下降的其中一个原因和现在紧张的医患关系有关。
One reason for the decline is linked to the current tense doctor-patient relationship.
“医疗环境变了，过去临床上患者死因不明，大夫对治疗过程又有疑惑，为了增加对疾病的了解，会积极动员病患的家属去支持医院进行尸检。
"The medical environment has changed. In the past, the cause of death of the patient is unknown and doctors have doubts about the treatment process.
现在，医生则尽量想避免与患者产生矛盾。
Now, doctors are trying to avoid conflict with patients.
”王欣欣对本刊说。
"Wang Xinxin told the magazine.
《非自然死亡》剧照具体到此次新冠肺炎的尸检，王慧君提到，“此次尸检缺位相关的议题非常复杂，不仅仅牵扯到解剖间的设施要求，解剖间的污水排放，空气净化和消毒都得一体化安排妥当。
"The lack of an autopsy is a very complicated issue," Wang said, referring to the post-mortem examination of the pneumonia. "It involves not only the requirements of the anatomy room, but the sewage discharge from the anatomy room, air purification and disinfection.
”事实上，刘良团队最终是在一个临时改造的医院负压手术室完成了遗体解剖。
In fact, Liu's team eventually performed the autopsy in a makeshift hospital negative-pressure operating room.
3个多小时的首例尸体解剖接到张定宇电话后，刘良迅速安排团队成员，一同前往金银潭医院。
After receiving Zhang Dingyu's call for the first autopsy in more than three hours, Liu promptly arranged for the team to go to the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
晚上9点接到电话，凌晨1点尸检才正式开始。
I got the call at 9: 00 p. m. and the autopsy didn't officially begin until 1 a.m.
在刘良团队等待的过程中，金银潭医院正快速将一间小手术室改造为解剖间。
As Liu's team waits, the Golden and Silver Pool Hospital is quickly transforming a small operating room into an anatomy room.
符合传染病解剖的空间要求不少，最好是一个带负压的空间，排水也得提前做好准备，否则可能对地面、甚至地下水有影响。
Conformity with the anatomical requirements of infectious diseases, preferably a negative pressure space, drainage must be prepared in advance, or may have an impact on the ground or even groundwater.
而且为了保证室内没有任何血液、组织残余物的污染，必须采用干性解剖。
And in order to ensure that there is no blood, tissue residue in the room, the use of dry anatomy.
与普通尸检相比，新冠肺炎患者的遗体依然存在传染性，因而刘良团队做的防护级别更高——戴三层手套，两层口罩，帽子也有三层，最后是护目镜加上防护屏。
The remains of patients with Newcomial Pneumonia are still infectious compared to normal autopsies, so Liu's team has a higher level of protection - three-tiered gloves, two-story masks, three-storey hats, and finally goggles and protective screens.
至于身上的防护服，密封性也更高，不透风不透气。
As for the body's protective clothing, sealing is also higher, impermeable and airtight.
参与解剖的人把全身暴露的位置都给封闭了，才算防护到位。
Those involved in the autopsy sealed off all the exposed areas of the body before the protection was in place.
尸检开始后，穿着隔离服的刘良，不到10分钟就汗如雨下。
After the autopsy began, Liu Liang, dressed in an isolation suit, sweated like rain in less than 10 minutes.
防护服内的衣服湿透了，身体觉得有点冷，加上呼吸也不够通畅，眼镜与护目镜雾气朦朦。
The clothes were soaking wet, the body felt chilly and breathing was not good enough, and glasses and goggles were misty.
刘良视线模糊了，感觉自己像高原反应似的，出现了心慌头晕低血糖的症状。
Liu Liang blurred vision, feeling like a plateau reaction, appeared dizzy hypoglycemia symptoms.
一些平时轻松上手的步骤，由于有点缺氧，每缝一针就得大喘气，腰也开始不舒服。
Some of the usual easy steps, because of a little hypoxia, each stitch has to gasp, waist also began to feel uncomfortable.
再加上饥饿感的袭击，整个过程进行得比往常慢很多。
Coupled with the hunger pangs, the whole process was much slower than usual.
他过去做一例解剖手术只需要1个小时，而这一例新冠肺炎的遗体解剖持续了3个多小时。
He used to have an autopsy that took only an hour, but in this case the autopsy lasted more than three hours.
直至凌晨3点50分，首例新冠患者的解剖才算结束了。
It was not until 3: 50 a.m. that the autopsy of the first patient with the new crown was completed.
首例尸检报告对临床治疗有用吗？12天后，刘良等人发布了《新型冠状病毒肺炎死亡尸体系统解剖大体观察报告》，这是1例尸体解剖肉眼观察结果的报告。
Is the first autopsy report useful for clinical treatment? 12 days later, Liu Liang and others released the Report on the General Anatomical Observation of the New Coronavirus Pneumonia Death Body System, a report of the results of an autopsy with the naked eye.
报告显示，逝者为一名85岁男性。
According to the report, the deceased was an 85-year-old man.
2020年1月某日以“多发性脑梗死”入院。
He was admitted to hospital with "multiple cerebral infarction" on a certain date in January 2020.
入院时无发热、咳嗽等症状。
There was no fever or cough on admission.
入院10天后出现喉咙发痒及发热。
Throat itching and fever 10 days after admission.
入院后第13天确诊为新型冠状病毒感染患者。
A new coronavirus infection was diagnosed 13 days after admission.
入院后28天死亡，临床死亡原因诊断为“新型冠状病毒肺炎、呼吸衰竭”，死亡前3天，血氧饱和度下降至 70%~80%。
28 days after admission, the clinical cause of death was diagnosed as "new coronavirus pneumonia, respiratory failure", 3 days before death, blood oxygen saturation decreased to 70% ~ 80%.
刘良等人从此例解剖大体观察中发现：肺部纤维化及实变没有SARS导致的病变严重，而渗出性反应较SARS明显。
Liu Liang et al found that pulmonary fibrosis and consolidation were not serious lesions caused by SARS, but the exudative reaction was more obvious than that of SARS.
对临床医生来说，这些信息有什么价值呢？丁仁彧是辽宁支援湖北重症医疗队的领队，在武汉人民医院参与100多名重症病人的救治。
What's the value of this information for a clinician? Ding Yinyu is a leader of Liaoning Intensive Care Team in Hubei province who works with over 100 patients in Wuhan People's Hospital.
他告诉本刊：（尸检）提示局部的一些肺泡的损伤，是病毒先侵袭患者的肺泡上皮细胞。
He told the magazine: "[Autopsy] suggests that some of the alveolar damage is caused by the virus first attacking the alveolar epithelial cells of the patient.
结合之后病毒还会不断复制，它的一些自身的蛋白或者RNA也会对机体造成进一步打击，这是所有病毒的特点，只不过这个病毒比较可怕之处在于它攻击的部位太深了，是肺组织的最小结构，肺泡。
When combined, the virus replicates, and some of its own proteins or RNAs can strike the body further, a feature of all viruses except that the virus attacks areas too deep, the smallest structure of lung tissue, the alveoli.
因为它结合的受体ACE2主要在肺泡上皮细胞表达。
Because it binds the receptor ACE2 to the expression of alveolar epithelial cells.
这就是它的病理生理机制，可以部分解释临床过程以及影像学特点。
This is its pathophysiological mechanism, which can partly explain the clinical process and imaging features.
这些只是一般的规律，在此基础上，不同个体之间会有所差异。
These are just general laws on the basis of which there will be differences between individuals.
“我注意到尸检里边提示说，它是病毒侵袭，侵袭之后激发患者机体的一些免疫反应，里面比较突出就是淋巴细胞的浸润。
"I noticed that the autopsy revealed that it was a viral attack that triggered some immune responses in the body, notably lymphocyte infiltration.
我在想这个也是值得我们反思的。
I'm thinking this is worth reflecting on.
淋巴细胞浸润是宿主针对病毒的免疫应答，为了清除病毒。
Lymphocyte infiltration is the host's immune response to the virus in order to remove the virus.
但是如果这种应答处于亢进状态，比如有的尸检报告提示CD8、Th17等是过度活化状态，那就可能在清除病毒的同时造成肺组织局部或者全身失控的炎症反应。
But if the response is hyperactive, as shown by autopsy reports suggesting excessive activation of CD8, Th17, etc., it may cause local or systemic inflammation of the lung tissue as the virus is cleared.
如果真是这样的话，那我们免疫调节药物应该怎么用？比如说我们现在的治疗方案‘日达仙’或者‘胸腺肽’的应用很常见，那么用的时间点，用的人群，如何来把控？”丁仁彧说。
If that's the case, how do we use immune-regulating medicines? For example, our current treatment regimen, Rita Sian or Thymic Peptide, is very common.
但单独一例尸检能提供的信息非常有限。
However, a single autopsy can provide very limited information.
丁仁彧告诉本刊：“死亡的病人大概是2700多例，尸检只做了十几例。
Ding Rinyu tells this print: "There are about 2,700 patients who die and only a dozen or so autopsies are performed.
从我们的角度来看，尸检的意义毋庸置疑。
From our point of view, there is no doubt about the significance of autopsy.
但我不认可的说法是，这一例尸检能产生什么颠覆性结论。
But I do not agree that this case of autopsy can produce any subversive conclusions.
而且，尸检一定有个体化差异的问题，年龄大的患者做尸检和二三十岁年轻人的尸检，他们的病理生理改变也许是截然不同的。
Moreover, there must be an individualized difference in the pathophysiology of older patients undergoing autopsies and those of young people in their twenties and thirties.
对我们来说，你观察每一个尸检报告的时候，你一定要看这个病人的病史。
For us, when you look at every autopsy report, you have to look at the patient's medical history.
他是在什么情况下死亡的？他发病了多长时间死亡？他进没进行过高流量吸氧，进没进行过无创呼吸？这些都是至关重要的问题。
Under what circumstances did he die? How long did he die? Was he given hyperventilate oxygen and did not take noninvasive breathing? These are all crucial questions.
”另一位三甲医院的一线临床大夫也提出了比较近似的观点，“这个尸检报告中的病例是一个85岁的老人，有脑梗的病史，但除此之外，报告没有提到他是否有其他基础疾病，信息太少了。
Another frontline clinician at Sanjia Hospital offered a similar view: "The case in the autopsy report was an 85-year-old man with a history of cerebral infarction, but apart from that, the report did not mention whether he had other underlying diseases and there was too little information.
包括比较重要的一点，关于这个病例有肺的弥漫性的病变，住院后是怎么治疗的？这些信息对临床医生的判断很重要，只是告诉我们最后形成病理改变，那对我来说，这个形成的病变完全没办法分析。
Including the more important point about the diffuse lung lesion in this case, how was it treated after hospitalization? This information was important to the clinician's judgment, only to tell us that the pathology eventually changed, and for me, the lesion formed was completely beyond my analysis.
”《法医秦明》剧照不过，自2月16日至2月24日，刘良团队完成了9例尸检，上海瑞金医院团队完成了2例。
However, from February 16 to February 24, Liu's team completed nine autopsies and the Shanghai Ruijin Hospital team completed two.
所有捐赠的遗体年龄段偏大，60岁以上居多，最小的一例52岁。
All of the donated remains were of a very old age, with the majority over 60 years of age and the youngest 52 years of age.
目前刘良团队与华中科技大学同济医学院病理系主任王国平一同合作，已有3例病理学上的初步结果，尚待进一步的深入检查，“王国平教授他们在抓紧做切片，染色观察、免疫组织化学等。
At present, Liu's team is working with Wang Guoping, head of the Department of Pathology at Tongji Medical School of Huazhong University of Science and Technology. There are three preliminary pathologic findings that need further in-depth examination.
尸检病毒的信息也有单位在做，最终的病理诊断需要结合9例一起看才比较全面。
The post mortem virus information also has the unit to do, the final pathology diagnosis needs to combine 9 cases to look together is quite comprehensive.
”刘良等人告诉本刊，从系统的病理学研究的角度来说，依然希望更多的遗体捐赠，但实际情况是很难做到的。
"Liu and others told the magazine that from a systemic pathology point of view, more remains are still expected to be donated, but the actual situation is very difficult to achieve.
（感谢记者王珊、张从志对报道的帮助）作者档案严岩如果你熟悉药物的临床试验流程和入组设计，请联系我！添加好友烦请做介绍，谢谢26分钟前三联生活周刊个人微信：roseisnotred请戳→《三联生活周刊》新冠肺炎系列报道⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载开白请联系后台。
(Thanks to reporter Wang Shan, Zhang Conzhi's help with the report) Yan Yan If you are familiar with the clinical trial flow and design of the drug, please contact me! Thank you for your introduction 26 minutes ago.
未经同意，严禁转载至网站、APP等。
Do not reprint to website, APP etc. without agreement.
点击下图，下单新冠特刊「准备复工」点击阅读原文，进入周刊书店，购买【新冠肺炎专刊组合】。
Click on the image below to download the new crown special issue of Ready for Work and go to the Weekly Bookstore to buy the New Crown Pneumonia Special Issue.
严徽因。
Yan Huiyin.
投喂一碗热热热干面！。
Feed a bowl of hot, hot, dry noodles.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
投喂一碗热热热干面！。
Feed a bowl of hot, hot, dry noodles.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
还原首例新冠肺炎逝者尸检前后。
To restore the first dead patients with Newcomial Pneumonia before and after autopsy.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "还原首例新冠肺炎逝者尸检前后";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "在专业人士的眼里，相比2003年SARS，新冠肺炎的第一例尸检姗姗来迟。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
