伊朗确诊日增65%后已近千，军方成立“圣战基地”抗击疫情。
With nearly a thousand people diagnosed in Iran now approaching 65%, the military has set up a "jihadist base" to combat the outbreak.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：Press TV记者：肖恩“ 伊朗新冠肺炎确诊病例数已超过日本，在海外国家中仅次于韩国和意大利。
Source: Shawn TV: "The number of confirmed cases of pneumonia in Iran has surpassed that of Japan and is second only to South Korea and Italy among overseas countries.
”伊朗卫生部3月1日通报称，24小时内，该国新增确诊病例385例，累计978例，其中死亡54例，治愈出院175例。
Iran's Ministry of Health on March 1 reported 385 new cases with a cumulative total of 978 cases, 54 of them fatal and 175 cured within 24 hours.
此前一天伊朗累计确诊593例。
A cumulative 593 cases were diagnosed in Iran the day before.
这意味着，伊朗确诊病例总数已经超过日本，在境外国家中仅次于韩国和意大利。
This means that the total number of confirmed cases in Iran has surpassed that in Japan and is second only to South Korea and Italy among the overseas countries.
伊朗大部分确诊病例集中在首都德黑兰、什叶派圣城库姆和拉什特。
The majority of confirmed cases in Iran are concentrated in the capital Tehran, the Shiite holy cities of Qom and Rasht.
伊朗卫生部副部长简巴巴伊（Qasem Janbabaei）在2月29日致信全国医学院院长，要求全国范围内所有公共、私营和慈善医院都停止接受非急诊病人，集中力量收治新冠肺炎患者，否则将面临法律处罚。
On February 29, Qasem Janbabaei, Iran's deputy health minister, wrote to the director of the country's medical school, demanding that all public, private, and charitable hospitals nationwide stop accepting non-urgent patients and concentrate on treating patients suffering from pneumonia or face legal penalties.
如有必要，医院应提供24小时服务。
If necessary, the hospital should provide a 24-hour service.
此前伊朗在每个省市设立至少一个医院收治新冠肺炎患者。
Iran had previously set up at least one hospital in each province to treat patients with pneumonia.
伊朗巴斯德研究所所长比格拉里（Alireza Biglari）表示，目前全国已有超过22个实验中心配备了检测试剂盒，能够快速对医院搜集的患者样本进行检测，检测能力较此前提高数十倍。
Alireza Biglari, director of Iran's Pasteur Institute, says that more than 22 experimental centers across the country are now equipped with test kits that allow rapid testing of patient samples collected in hospitals, a dozens of times better than before.
伊朗科学技术战略重心副主任加德利法则表示，伊朗医科大学开始着手研究新型冠状病毒疫苗，新冠病毒检测试剂盒也将在不久的将来实现大规模生产。
Iran's medical university is working on a new coronavirus vaccine, and a new coronavirus detection kit will be produced on a large scale in the near future, said Jardry's Law, deputy director of Iran's science and technology strategy.
伊朗公司Ali Qolami 2月29日称，已将试剂盒生产提上日程，预计每天能生产150至200个，每个试剂盒能检测50名患者。
The Iranian company Ali Qolami stated on 29 February that the production of kits had been put on the agenda and that it was expected that 150 to 200 would be produced each day, with each kit capable of testing 50 patients.
为了遏制新冠病毒传播，伊朗各大银行将缩减工作时间，大中小学均已停课，电影院、音乐厅等公共场所全部关闭。
In an effort to stem the spread of the virus, Iranian banks are cutting back on working hours, schools and colleges have been closed, and public places such as cinemas and concert halls have been closed.
伊朗军方也加入了这场抗疫战争。
The Iranian military has joined the battle against the disease.
据塔斯尼姆通讯社消息，伊朗陆军成立“圣战基地”（jihadi base），以抗击新冠肺炎疫情，并于1日在德黑兰举行了仪式。
The Iranian army set up a jihadi base to fight the outbreak of pneumonia and held a ceremony in Tehran on Monday, according to the Tasmanian news agency.
伊朗陆军的步兵部队已经开始按计划对德黑兰的医院进行消毒。
Iranian Army infantry units have begun disinfecting hospitals in Tehran as planned.
伊朗伊斯兰革命卫队（IRGC）在库尔德斯坦的一名军官则表示，革命卫队能提供七辆特殊车辆帮助进行当地街道的消毒工作。
An IRGC officer in Kurdistan says the Revolutionary Guards Corps can provide seven special vehicles to help disinfect local streets.
但快速增加的确诊数字仍引起当地民众恐慌。
But the rapidly growing number of confirmed cases continues to alarm the local population.
据阿拉比亚电视台网站报道，伊朗南部阿巴斯港（Bandar Abbas）一家诊所遭遇纵火，原因是当地民众认为有来自库姆的数十名新冠肺炎确诊患者在那里隔离。
A clinic in the southern Iranian port of Bandar Abbas was set ablaze after local people believed dozens of patients diagnosed with pneumonia from Qom were quarantined, according to an Arabiya television website.
这一消息在社交媒体上流传，引起当地民众不满。
The news spread through social media, raising local discontent.
但随后伊朗法尔斯通讯社辟谣了这一消息。
But Iran's Fars news agency later dismissed the news.
据俄塔社报道，克里姆林宫2月29日声明称，俄总统普京当天与伊朗总统鲁哈尼通电话，哀悼因新冠肺炎死亡的伊朗人，并承诺愿为伊朗遏制疫情提供帮助。
Russian President Vladimir Putin spoke by telephone with Iranian President Hassan Rouhani on Tuesday to mourn the death of Iranians from pneumonia and promised to help Iran contain the outbreak, the Kremlin reported Tuesday.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
伊朗确诊日增65%后已近千，军方成立“圣战基地”抗击疫情。
With nearly a thousand people diagnosed in Iran now approaching 65%, the military has set up a "jihadist base" to combat the outbreak.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "伊朗确诊日增65%后已近千，军方成立“圣战基地”抗击疫情";。
var msg _ title = & quot; nearly a thousand after Iran's diagnosis of a growing 65%, the military set up a "jihadist base" to fight AT & quot;;.
var msg_desc = "伊朗新冠肺炎确诊病例数已超过日本，在海外国家中仅次于韩国和意大利。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Iran has surpassed Japan in the number of confirmed cases of New Crown Pneumonia, second only to South Korea and Italy among overseas countries.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
