武汉城里的白血病人。
Wuhan city leukemia person.
徐玮超。
Xu Weichao.
云林街十七号                      。
17 Yunlin Street.
云林街十七号。
17 Yunlin Street.
这场战役 我们与你们同在。
We are with you in this battle.
输不上血小板，母亲的血象每况日下。
Without platelets, the mother's blood goes down every day.
一向羞于求人，兢兢业业照顾母亲的小雯开始呼救，「在这样的天灾人祸面前，我妈妈这样的病人，可能成为了不计一切代价中间的‘代价’」。
"In the face of a natural or man-made disaster like this, a patient like my mother can be a 'price to pay' for everything.
文| 徐玮超（应当事人要求，声音已处理）跟小雯取得联系是在1月30日晚上。
Xu Weiqiao (at the request of the person concerned, the voice has been handled) contacted Xiao Wen on the evening of January 30.
她的母亲是急性白血病患者，过去两年里一直在武汉大学中南医院就诊。
Her mother, an acute leukemia patient, has been attending Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital for the past two years.
在28号的化验单上，她母亲的血小板数只有15，而正常人是150-300。
On laboratory test sheet No. 28, her mother's platelet count was only 15, compared with 150-300 for a normal person.
血小板数是白血病患者的生命线，如果低于20，患者就需要外输血小板，否则身体将有出血的危险。
Platelet count is the lifeline for patients with leukaemia. If it is below 20, the patient needs platelets to be transplanted, otherwise the body is at risk of bleeding.
而一旦发生内出血，生命很难抢救。
In the event of internal bleeding, life is difficult to save.
因为武汉疫情的变化，武汉大学中南医院的血液科门诊停诊了，住院部也不再收治血液病病人。
Due to the change of Wuhan epidemic situation, the blood clinic of Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital was stopped and the inpatient department no longer treated patients with blood diseases.
小雯和父亲询问了武汉各大有血液科的医院，却没有一家可以收治她的母亲，为母亲输上救命血。
Xiao Wen and her father asked Wuhan have a major blood department hospital, but none of her mother can be treated, for her mother lost life-saving blood.
管床医生说，唯一的解决办法是，小雯的母亲去发热急诊排查是否有新型肺炎病毒，如果没有，就在急诊病房安排输血。
The doctor said the only solution was for Xiao Wen's mother to go to the emergency room to check for the new pneumonia virus and, if not, arrange for a blood transfusion in the emergency ward.
白血病病人免疫力低下，小感冒都有可能威胁生命。
Leukemia patient immunity is low, colds are likely to threaten life.
中南医院的发热急诊，做的是新型肺炎病毒的定点试剂盒检测。
Central South Hospital of the fever emergency, do a new type of pneumonia virus locator kit detection.
以小雯母亲的免疫力，在这里就诊，极易发生交叉感染，后果不堪设想。
To Xiaowen's mother's immunity, here, easy to cross-infection, the consequences of unthinkable.
这个唯一的解决方案，对于自己的母亲来说却是死路一条。
The only solution, for her mother, is a dead end.
1月31日，刚跟小雯做完采访的晚上，她对我说：“如果我妈妈挺不过去了，这篇报道也不用发出来了”。
On January 31, just after an interview with Xiao Wen, she said to me: "If my mother can not get through, this report need not be sent."
以下内容根据小雯的自述整理：不好的预感1月23号，早晨9点半，我在手机上接到了武汉市政府发布的封城信息。
On January 23, at 9: 30 a.m. on my mobile phone, I received a message from Wuhan city government about the closure of the city.
离封城还有30分钟。
Thirty minutes from the city.
我立刻跟爸妈说，“爸妈，武汉要封城了，咱们得赶紧储备一些粮食。
I immediately said to my parents, "Mom and Dad, Wuhan is closing the city, we must hasten to store some grain.
”与此同时，我有预感，“如果这个疫情不能控制住，很可能血源会紧张。
"At the same time, I had a hunch that" if the outbreak is not contained, it is likely that blood will be strained.
”我本以为母亲春节期间的输血会成问题，可能要排很长的队。
"I thought a blood transfusion for my mother during the Spring Festival would be a problem and would have a long queue.
但没有想到的是，如今她面对的是没有血小板可输的境地。
But instead of thinking, she now faces a situation where she has no platelets to lose.
1月26日，我母亲的血小板数值还有35。
On January 26, my mother's platelet count was 35.
武汉大学中南医院的医生说，如果我母亲血象再恶化，就需要住院输血。
Doctors at Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital said an inpatient blood transfusion would be needed if my mother's blood situation deteriorated again.
等到1月28日，我再次带着母亲去中南医院查血象，母亲的血小板数已经低至15。
By January 28, I took my mother to the South-Central Hospital to check for blood, and her platelet count was as low as 15.
检验报告单我妈妈是血液科的老病人，但因为疫情，中南医院的住院部不再接收血液病病人。
Examination Report Form My mother is an old patient in the hematology department, but because of the outbreak, the inpatient department of Zhongnan Hospital no longer accepts patients with blood diseases.
值班医生建议我找其他的医院输血。
The doctor on duty advised me to seek a blood transfusion at another hospital.
然后我立马发微信给之前的管床医生，他说医院平诊全部停掉了，急诊现在都在收发热病人。
Then I immediately sent a message to the former tube-bed doctor, who said that all hospital appointments had been stopped and that the emergency department was now collecting febrile patients.
如果我妈妈没有其他情况，建议在家，避免因为免疫力低下而感染病毒。
If my mother has no other condition, recommend staying at home to avoid contracting the virus due to low immunity.
我跟他说，“你知道我母亲的这种血液情况，她的血小板一直靠输注，不输的话就一直往下掉，很有可能会掉到0，那个时候怎么办？”医生还是说没有办法，“只能是现在这个样子，你要不就去找其他的医院，要不就先观察。
I told him, "You know my mother's blood situation, her platelets have been on the infusion, and if she doesn't lose her platelets keep going down, most likely to fall to zero?" The doctor said there was no way out.
”他也说，他们血液病病人治了这么长时间，知道我的担心，一旦出血就来不及了。
He also said they had been treating patients with blood for so long that it was too late to bleed, knowing my fears.
寻找救命血回家之后，我不断地联系武汉的其他医院，为我母亲找血小板。
Looking for life-saving blood home, I constantly contact other hospitals in Wuhan, for my mother to find platelets.
省肿瘤医院，他们没有做定点医院，也没有一例疑似病例，但是医生也直接拒绝。
Provincial oncology hospital, they do not have a designated hospital, not a single suspected case, but doctors also directly refused.
他说，“我们不收血液病”。
"We don't take blood," he said.
同济的医生说，现在这种疫情，资源非常有限，还有血很少，他们原则上已经不收外来的病人了，“我自己的病人都申请不到血，甚至要预约排队很久，我们没有精力和资源再去顾及外来医院的病人了。
Doctors in Tongji say the epidemic, with its limited resources and little blood, no longer accepts incoming patients in principle. "My own patients can't apply for blood, and even have to make long queues, so we don't have the energy and resources to care for patients in foreign hospitals.
”武汉大学中南医院延迟开诊的通知我联系了省人民医院，中部战区医院，同济，协和，以及他们的其他分院区，还有省肿瘤医院，第九医院，普爱普仁医院。
"I contacted the provincial people's hospital, the central war zone hospital, Tongji, Concorde and their other campuses, as well as the provincial oncology hospital, the ninth hospital and the Puipuren hospital.
这些医院的医生回复基本上一模一样：所有的医护人员都去支援疫情了，我们没有医护人员能够在病房里面再收治其他的病种病人。
The doctors at these hospitals were basically the same: all the paramedics were there to support the outbreak, and we didn't have medical staff in the wards to treat other patients.
我们没有人了。
None of us are here.
我很理解，我母亲是重症，医院也会怀疑我母亲会不会是潜伏期患者，肯定有这种可能性。
I understand that my mother is seriously ill, and the hospital doubts that my mother will be an incubator.
这两天打电话问了很多医院，医院都有自保的心态。
These two days called a lot of hospitals, hospitals have the mentality of self-insurance.
面对这样的情况，我妈妈什么都没有说，也可能是她不愿意表现出来给我看。
Faced with this situation, my mother did not say anything, may be she did not want to show me.
有时候我们也会吵架，因为压力太大了。
Sometimes we fight, too, because the pressure is too high.
我妈妈一直感觉，如果她走了，对于我和我爸是一种解脱。
My mother always felt that if she left, it would be a relief for me and my dad.
她觉得她拖累我太久了。
She thinks she's been a drag on me too long.
我是一个很要强的人，所以不喜欢跟别人寻求太多的帮助。
I'm such a strong person that I don't like to ask for too much help.
向着自己周围的朋友宣泄，说自己家里的情况，这是一种负面情绪。
It's a negative emotion to vent your feelings about your family to friends around you.
渲染过多，别人就会觉得你像祥林嫂一样在不停的念叨。
Render too much, others will feel you like XiangLin in the same incessant chant.
我不喜欢这个样子。
I don't like this look.
但我还不愿意放弃。
But I'm not ready to give up.
现在虽然血液紧张，可是医院只要能够把我母亲收进去，我妈妈可以不在医院住，输了血小板就走。
Now, although the blood is tight, as long as the hospital can take my mother in, my mother can not live in the hospital, lost platelets and left.
在武汉目前的天气里，我可以推我妈妈到露天去输。
In the current weather in Wuhan, I can push my mother to the open air to lose.
输一袋血小板就半个小时，可是现在我们没有这个机会。
We lost a bag of platelets for half an hour, and now we don't have that chance.
难言放弃2年前，我妈妈确诊为MDS eb2。
Unspeakable give up 2 years ago, my mother diagnosed as MDS eb2.
当时医生甚至判断，以我妈妈的血象和化疗的程度，可能挺不过三个月。
At the time, the doctors even decided that my mother's blood and chemotherapy might not last three months.
可是我妈一直挺下来了。
But my mom kept it up.
从妈妈发病开始，我和爸爸就知道一定要做好防感染，所以我们家里很早就用紫外灯消毒。
From the beginning of my mother's illness, my father and I knew we had to do a good job of preventing infection, so we used UV lights early in the family disinfection.
只要她的血氧饱和度能够坚持下来，我妈妈24小时佩戴防护型的口罩，睡觉都戴着。
As long as her oxygen saturation persists, my mother wears a protective mask for 24 hours and sleeps.
我和我父亲也是一样，这两年在外面从来没有摘下过口罩。
My father and I have never taken off a mask outside for the past two years.
这只是一部分。
This is only part of it.
我妈每天每隔一小时要盐水漱口，三餐以后更是要漱口。
My mother rinses with salt water every other hour and mouthwashes after every three meals.
不论大小便，全部都要用盐水进行洗漱，就是为了防止口腔和肛周感染。
Whether you urinate or urinate, rinse with salt water to prevent oral and perianal infections.
这些都是我能够了解到的所有防护措施，我们拼尽了全力去注意。
These are all the precautions I can understand, and we have tried our best to pay attention.
妈妈在中南医院的主治医师，对我们一直特别的好，尽心尽力的救治。
Mother in the South Central Hospital attending doctors, we have been particularly good, dedicated to the treatment.
他也经常表扬我和父亲对妈妈的看顾。
He often praised me and my father for looking after my mother.
在主治医师和我们的共同努力下，妈妈两年历经多次鬼门关都挺了过来，精神也还不错。
In the attending physician and our joint efforts, the mother after two years of death have survived, the spirit is also good.
两年来，小雯母亲的收费单但突然遇到这样的事，我无法相信现实。
For two years, Xiaowen's mother's charge sheet but suddenly encountered such a thing, I can not believe the reality.
你知道吗？就好像自己费了好大的精神去保护的东西，突然一下就被打碎了。
You know what? It's like trying so hard to protect something that it suddenly breaks.
而这是被一个意外打碎的，不是因为我没做好。
And it was broken by an accident, not because I didn't do it well.
甚至可以说不是因为妈妈的病情进展。
It's not even because of my mother's illness.
昨天晚上我实在没有办法，又给中南医院的医生打电话。
I had no choice but to call the doctor at Zhongnan Hospital last night.
医生知道我母亲是老病人，他说他愿意每天以急诊的方式多帮我妈妈留一袋O型血小板，一旦我妈妈不行了，只要能够送到医院，只要医院能够接收，他就可以在急救时，为我妈妈输上血小板。
Knowing that my mother was an elderly patient, the doctor said he was willing to save my mother a bag of Type O platelets every day in an emergency. If my mother did not survive, as long as she could be taken to the hospital, he could give her platelets for emergency treatment.
我已经到了这一步。
I have come here.
在以往，我妈可以在一个周期性的医疗条件下延续生命。
In the past, my mother was able to continue her life in a cyclical medical condition.
但是在这样的天灾人祸面前，我妈妈这样的病人，可能成为了不计一切代价中间的“代价”。
But in the face of such man-made and natural disasters, patients like my mother can be a "price to pay" for everything.
这两天，我的这个预感越来越强烈了。
Over the past two days, my hunch has grown stronger.
（文中“小雯”为化名）2月1日，白天，稿件正在排版，小雯再次联系了我。
On February 1, during the day, Xiao Wen contacted me again as the manuscript was being typed.
她发在网上的求助信息被中南医院的管床医生看到了，他让她尽快删帖，因为这会对医院“带来负面影响”。
The help message she posted online was seen by the Bed Doctor at Zhongnan Hospital, who asked her to delete it as soon as possible because it would have a "negative impact" on the hospital.
白血病治疗圈的潜规则是首诊负责制，其他医院不收治，去中南医院的发热急诊对妈妈来说也是死路一条，小雯觉得自己快到极限了。
Leukemia treatment circle of the unspoken rule is the first consultation in charge of the system, other hospitals do not accept treatment, to the South China Hospital febrile emergency for mother is also a dead end, Xiaowen felt that he was nearing the limit.
她对我说：“我和妈妈已经走投无路了，这篇稿件一定要发。
She said to me: "My mother and I are desperate, this manuscript must be sent.
既然决心赴死，不能不明不白。
Being determined to die, he could not conceal it.
”（如果有网友能为小雯提供帮助，欢迎后台留言）扫码关注我们，记录你的“抗疫故事”。
(If anyone has a netizen who can help Wen, welcome backstage comments) Sweep the code and keep track of your "anti-epidemic story."
「我们是谁？」“云林街十七号”，是一群关注新型肺炎病毒抗疫的纪录片人。
"Who are we?" "Seventeen Yunlin Street" is a documentary about the new pneumonia virus.
云林街是武汉一条普通的街道，正如我们想要记录的普通故事背后的一切。
Yunlin Street is an ordinary street in Wuhan, just as we want to record the ordinary story behind everything.
团队成员来自社会学、新闻、电影、纪录片等不同背景，平均年龄不到30岁。
The team members come from a variety of backgrounds, including sociology, journalism, movies and documentaries, with an average age of less than 30 years.
点击阅读原文，报名参与“故事征集”。
Read the original text and sign up for the "Story Collection."
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉城里的白血病人。
Wuhan city leukemia person.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "文学";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "云林街十七号";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; 17 Yunlin Street;;
var msg_title = "武汉城里的白血病人";。
var msg _ title = & quot; leukemia & quot; & quot; in Wuhan.
var msg_desc = "成为不计一切代价的“代价”。
var msg _ desc = & quot; a "price" at all costs.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="云林街十七号";。
var title = & quot; 17 Yunlin Street; & quot;
