防疫不积极涉嫌“杀人”，韩国“新天地”会长跪地谢罪。
Anti-epidemic is not actively suspected of "homicide," South Korea "Xintiandi" president knelt to thank the crime.
肖恩。
Sean.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：中央日报记者：肖恩“ “尽人事听天命，上天会眷顾。
Source: China Daily: Shawn. Personnel listen to fate. Heaven will take care of you.
””“新天地方面对此感到无比愧疚，感谢政府倾力抗击疫情，并请求政府予以宽恕。
"Xintiandi side felt very guilty about this, thanked the government for its efforts to fight the epidemic and asked the government to forgive it.
新天地将积极配合政府并提供力所能及的人力物力援助。
Xintiandi will actively cooperate with the government and provide human and material assistance according to its ability.
”距离韩国“新天地”大邱教会出现首例新冠肺炎确诊病例近两周后，新天地教会会长李万熙终于露面谢罪。
Almost two weeks after the first confirmed case of New Crown Pneumonia at Taegu Church in New Horizon, South Korea, Li Wanxi, president of Xintiandi Church, finally appeared to plead guilty.
截至3月2日零时，韩国累计确诊新冠肺炎病例超过4000人，其中有近六成与新天地大邱教会有关。
By 0000 hours March 2, more than 4,000 new cases of pneumonia had been diagnosed in South Korea, nearly 60 percent of which were related to Taegu Church in Xintiandi.
据韩联社报道，当地时间2日下午，李万熙召开新冠肺炎疫情记者会。
According to the Korean News Agency, local time, 2 afternoon, Lee Wan-hee held a news conference on the new crown pneumonia.
这是“新天地”引爆韩国疫情以来，李万熙首次公开发声。
This is the "new world" since the detonation of the South Korean epidemic, Lee's first public voice.
记者会上，88岁的李万熙跪地行大礼道歉。
At a news conference, 88-year-old Lee Wan-hee knelt and apologized.
他表示，尽管并非本意，但出现这么多感染者，自己毫无颜面，向国民真心道歉，并承诺充分配合政府防控疫情。
He said that although not intended, there were so many infected people, their own shame, the people sincerely apologize, and promised full cooperation with the Government in the prevention and control of the epidemic.
李万熙表示，新天地教会现已避免进行任何集会，也关闭了所有聚会场所。
Mr Lee said the church had now avoided any gatherings and had closed all of them.
记者会上，有示威者在现场高喊要李万熙对新天地大邱教会发生的疫情负责。
At the press conference, demonstrators shouted at the scene to hold Lee Wan-hee responsible for the outbreak at Taegu Church in Xintiandi.
韩联社称，记者会进行了约20分钟，有200名警员到场维持秩序。
The agency said the news conference lasted about 20 minutes, with 200 police officers present to maintain order.
据韩国中央防疫对策本部通报，截至2日零时，韩国境内4212例新冠肺炎确诊病例中有2418例与新天地大邱教会有关，占比57.4%，病死率为0.5%，其中20至29岁病例有1235例，可能是受到新天地年轻女信徒较多的影响。
By 0000 hours on February 2, 2,418 of the 4,212 confirmed cases of New Crown Pneumonia in South Korea were related to the Taegu Church in Xintiandi, accounting for 57.4 percent, with a fatality rate of 0.5 percent.
此外，与新天地大邱教会有关的确诊病例也不仅仅出现在大邱市，而是分布在全国14个省市。
In addition, confirmed cases related to Taegu Church in Xintiandi are not only found in Daegu city, but in 14 provinces and cities across the country.
公开资料显示，新天地教会全称“新天地耶稣教证据帐幕圣殿”，由李万熙于1984年3月14日建立，总部位于韩国京畿道果川市。
Open data shows that Xintiandi Church fully known as the "new world Jesuit evidence Tent Temple," established on March 14, 1984 by Lee Wanxi, headquartered in Gyeonggi Province, Korea.
目前韩国已启动对新天地教会约31万信徒的病毒检测，预计与该教会有关的病例还将持续攀升。
South Korea has begun testing about 310,000 people in Xintiandi Church, and the number of cases related to the church is expected to continue to rise.
据韩国《中央日报》2日报道，韩国政府称，出入境记录显示，新天地教会的部分信徒曾在今年1月前往武汉，具体人数还未确定。
South Korea's government said entry and exit records showed that some members of Xintiandi Church had gone to Wuhan in January, but the exact number has not yet been determined.
但中央防疫对策本部副部长权俊旭表示，新天地教徒往返武汉人数并不多，与疫情的关系仍需进一步调查。
But Kwon Junxu, vice minister of the Central Preventive Measures, said the number of Xintiandi pilgrims to and from Wuhan was not high, and the relationship with the outbreak needed further investigation.
韩国中央防疫对策本部本部长郑银敬2日在记者会上介绍，已对从中国返回新天地信徒的出入境记录进行初步调查，相关人员有一两人，其中一人1月8日从武汉返回，但该信徒未被列入参与礼拜的名单，也没有确诊感染。
A group of one or two people, one of whom returned from Wuhan on January 8, was not included in the list of worshippers, and no confirmed infection was confirmed, said Zheng Yingjing, minister of the Central Anti-epidemic Policy of the ROK.
另据韩联社消息， 韩国司法部公布的记录显示，从去年7月至今年2月27日，共有42名“新天地”信徒从武汉进入韩国，韩方正对这42人展开调查。
According to the agency, records released by South Korea's Ministry of Justice show that from July last year to February 27, 42 followers of Xintiandi entered South Korea from Wuhan, where they are being investigated.
2月18日，韩国一名61岁的女性在大邱确诊新冠肺炎，成为韩国第31例确诊病例，她也是新天地大邱教会的首例确诊病例。
A 61-year-old woman was diagnosed with pneumonia in Daegu on Feb. 18, making her the thirty-first confirmed case in South Korea and the first in the Taegu Church in Xintiandi.
此人曾在2月9日和16日与1001名信众一同参与礼拜，此后大邱市确诊人数迅速增加，并出现了以第31例病患为中心的集聚性感染病例。
The number of confirmed cases in Daegu has increased rapidly since he attended services with 1,001 followers on 9 and 16 February, and there have been 31 patient-centred cases of concentrated infection.
3月1日，首尔市政府以违反《感染病预防法》，以及杀人、伤害等嫌疑向首尔中央地方检察厅控告李万熙和新天地12个支会领导，主要嫌疑是“没有为防止疫情扩散积极采取措施”。
On March 1, Seoul Metropolitan Government filed a complaint with Seoul Central District Prosecutor's Office against Lee Wanxi and 12 branch leaders of Xintiandi on suspicion of violating the Infectious Disease Prevention Act, as well as murder and injury. The main suspicion is "failure to take active measures to prevent the spread of the epidemic."
首尔市长朴元淳当天在脸书账号发布题为“新天地教总会长李万熙作为本次事件的核心责任人，请立即出面解决问题”的文章，敦促新天地教会人员向国民道歉，要求李万熙本人以及全体新天地教会信徒接受检测，积极配合防疫。
On the same day, Seoul Mayor Park won-soon posted a Facebook account entitled "As the core of this incident, please come forward to solve the problem," urged the people of Xintiandi Church to apologize to the people, asked Lee Wanxi himself and all followers of Xintiandi Church to accept the test, actively cooperate with the epidemic prevention.
大邱市政府也以提供虚假信息、阻碍政府防疫工作为由，对新天地教会采取法律行动。
The Daegu Municipal Government also took legal action against the Church of Xintiandi on the grounds that it had provided false information and obstructed the Government's immunization efforts.
据韩国《中央日报》报道，还有一个“新天地”受害者团体在2月27日宣布以违反《传染病预防法》和《特定经济犯罪加重处罚法》中贪污与侵吞资产的嫌疑，对李万熙提起指控，并向媒体公开了374页的诉状。
On February 27, a group of victims of Xintiandi filed charges against Lee on suspicion of embezzlement and embezzlement under the Communicable Disease Prevention Act and the Economic Offences Aggravating Punishment Act, and opened 374 pages of lawsuits to the media, the China Daily reported.
诉状指出，新天地教会公布的1100处集会场所与每年总会上报告的教会名下房产清单存在429处出入。
The petition said there were 429 discrepancies between the 1,100 assembly sites announced by the Church and the list of properties reported annually in the name of the church.
此外有部分患者知道确诊后才被发现是新天地信徒，但教会设法隐藏信徒身份，甚至教唆信徒说谎。
In addition, some patients are known to have been diagnosed as adherents of Xintiandi, but the church has managed to hide the identity of believers and even instigate them to lie.
他们认为，“不暴露身份才是更重要的事”，而不是防控疫情。
"It is more important," they say, "not to control the epidemic."
而在教会上交的信徒名单中，并没有纳入7万多名“最可能感染病毒”的预备入会人员名单和教会重要人物名单。
The Church's list of believers does not include the more than 70,000 "most likely to be infected" with the virus and the list of church dignitaries.
政府于27日要求教会提供预备教会会员名单时，被新天地方面以“教会预备会员还不是正式会员，无法提供名单”为由拒绝。
On the 27th, the government asked the church to provide a list of its members, which was rejected by Xintiandi on the grounds that "the members of the church reserve are not full members and cannot provide a list."
对此，新天地教会国际传教负责人金申昌1日在接受美国有线电视新闻网（CNN）采访时否认新天地对最近韩国感染人数激增负有责任，认为当局试图“夸大”教会涉事，以推卸政府责任。
In an interview with CNN, Kim Shin Cheong, head of international missionary work at Xintiandi Church, on Monday denied Xintiandi was responsible for the recent surge in infections in South Korea, saying the authorities were trying to "exaggerate" church involvement to absolve the government of its responsibilities.
他对教会“给韩国民众带来的担忧”道歉，但表示尽管工作上有不足，教会一直在全力配合政府工作，保持透明公开。
He apologized for the church's "concern for the people of South Korea," but said the church had cooperated fully with the government and remained transparent despite its shortcomings.
他承认教会鼓励信徒否认身份，但表示这并非是为掩盖信息，而是因为“新天地”在一些地区被视作“异端”，信徒受到歧视。
He acknowledged that the church encouraged believers to deny their identity, but said it was not to hide information, but because "new worlds" were seen as "heresy" in some areas and believers were discriminated against.
“新天地”礼拜的方式一直备受质疑。
The way of worship in Xintiandi has always been questioned.
曾经是“新天地”信徒的金杜延在2月份对CNN称，教会从未将生病视为缺席教会活动的正当理由。
Kindu Yan, a former New World devotee, told CNN in February that the church had never seen illness as a valid reason to be absent from church activities.
而做礼拜时，信徒们会像“沙丁鱼罐头似的挤在一起”，且不允许戴口罩，以免“对上帝不敬”。
At church, believers would huddle together like sardines and would not be allowed to wear masks, lest they be "disrespectful to God."
金申昌反驳称，这些说法已经过时、也不准确，从1月起，出现症状的信徒就被要求要么不要进入礼拜场所，要么就戴上口罩。
Mr Kim counters that these claims are outdated and inaccurate and that, since January, symptomatic believers have been asked either not to enter places of worship or to wear masks.
“我们关闭了所有办公室以防进一步传播。
"We closed all the offices to prevent further spread.
由于所有会员都要在家办公、最大程度上自我隔离，我们的管理进程也已拖延，”金申昌说。
Our management process has also been delayed as all members have to work from home and isolate themselves to the maximum extent, "Kim said.
“我相信肯定在有些地方我们还能做得更好，但我们想强调的是，我们已在这种情况下尽了全力。
"I'm sure there are places where we can do better, but we would like to stress that we have done our best in this situation.
”在2月19日韩国出现大批确诊病例后，韩国天主教会大邱大教区最先停止弥散，之后一周内16个教区都停止了弥撒。
The Diocese of Daegu, the Catholic church, was the first to stop dispersing after a large number of confirmed cases in South Korea on February 19, and mass ceased in 16 parishes within a week.
这在韩国天主教会236年历史上尚属首次。
This is the first time in the 236-year history of the Catholic Church.
此外，韩国佛教界也暂停全部法会，基督教多数教会也将周日礼拜改为在线礼拜。
In addition, the Buddhist community in South Korea has suspended all churches, and most Christian churches have converted Sunday services into online services.
新天地教会会长李万熙在2月21日呼吁信众“遵照政府的指示”，减少聚会并改为线上布道。
On Feb. 21, Lee Wanxi, president of Xintiandi Church, called on believers to "follow the government's instructions" by reducing the number of meetings and switching to online sermons.
一直在位于京畿道的家中自我隔离的他于3月2日表示，已接受新冠病毒检测，结果呈阴性。
Having been isolated in his home in Gyeonggi province, he said on March 2 that he had tested negative for the new crown virus.
“疫情首先是一场大型灾难，而不仅仅是个人问题。
"The epidemic is first and foremost a major disaster, not just a personal problem.
不仅仅是我们自己在努力，政府也在努力防止疫情扩散，”李万熙在2日的发布会上说。
"It's not just our own efforts, the government is also trying to prevent the spread of the epidemic," Lee said at a press conference on the 2nd.
“现在不是追究谁对谁错的时候，尽人事听天命，上天会眷顾。
"Now is not the time to find out who is right and who is wrong.
”未经授权 禁止转载。
No reproduction is permitted without authorization.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
防疫不积极涉嫌“杀人”，韩国“新天地”会长跪地谢罪。
Anti-epidemic is not actively suspected of "homicide," South Korea "Xintiandi" president knelt to thank the crime.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "防疫不积极涉嫌“杀人”，韩国“新天地”会长跪地谢罪";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "“尽人事听天命，上天会眷顾。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
”";。
";;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
