纽约首次确诊、西海岸两名患者死亡：新冠病毒继续在美蔓延。
New York City First Confirmed, Two West Coast Patients Died: New Crown Virus Spreads in US.
安晶。
Anjing.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
出现两例确诊的华盛顿州的金县养老院。
Two confirmed cases of a nursing home in Golden County, Washington.
图片来源：Twitter记者：安晶“ 前往救助的消防员和警察正在接受隔离。
Source: Twitter: "Firefighters and police going to the rescue are being quarantined."
”随着新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情在美国扩散，西海岸华盛顿州的金县成高危区：美国两例死亡病例均来自该县；当地一所养老院出现两名确诊患者，另有50多名住户和工作人员出现呼吸道症状，前往救助的消防员和警察正在接受隔离。
As the new coronavirus pneumonia epidemic spreads in the United States, Kim County, on the west coast of Washington state, is at high risk: two deaths in the United States came from the county, two confirmed cases were reported in a nursing home, and more than 50 households and staff members developed respiratory symptoms, and firefighters and police were being quarantined.
与此同时，位于东海岸的纽约也宣布确诊首例病例，患者曾前往伊朗。
Meanwhile, New York City, on the east coast, announced the first confirmed case, with the patient heading to Iran.
据金县Kiro7新闻3月1日报道，西雅图与金县公共卫生部门周日宣布，该县出现第二例新冠确诊患者死亡。
The Seattle and Jinxian public health departments announced Sunday that the county had the second confirmed death in a new crown.
死者为来自金县柯克兰市的一名70岁老人，患有基础性疾病。
The victim, a 70-year-old man from Kirkland, Kim County, was suffering from a basic disease.
周六，金县的一名50岁确诊患者死亡，也是美国的首例死亡病例。
On Saturday, a 50-year-old confirmed patient died in Kim County, the first death in the United States.
该男子因“严重呼吸性疾病”在柯克兰市当地医院就医，后被确诊感染新冠病毒。
The man was diagnosed with the new crown virus after being treated for "severe respiratory disease" at a local hospital in Kirkland.
出现症状前，男子没有前往过疫情国家和地区，也没有与任何确诊患者接触。
Prior to the onset of symptoms, men did not travel to the affected countries and areas and did not have any contact with any confirmed patients.
西雅图与金县公共卫生部门官员指出，该男子的患病说明西雅图地区已经出现社区传播。
Public health officials in Seattle and King County said the man's illness was indicative of community transmission in Seattle.
西雅图位于金县，也是金县的县治所在。
Seattle is located in King County and is the county seat of Jinxian County.
就在周日当天，金县公共部门还宣布两例新增确诊病例，均为60岁以上老人；至此，金县共出现六例确诊病例。
Just Sunday, two new cases were announced by the Kim county public authorities, both of them older than 60, bringing the total number of confirmed cases in Jinxian to six.
养老院告示。
Places for the elderly.
图片来源：Twitter在此前的确诊病例中，至少有两例与柯克兰市的养老院Life Care Center有关，一人为养老院护工，还有一人为住户。
Source: Twitter In at least two of the previous confirmed cases, Twitter was linked to the Life Care Center, a nursing home for the elderly in Kirkland, and one to a household.
除了确诊的两人外，养老院中另外50多名住户和工作人员已经出现症状，正在接受隔离检测。
In addition to the two persons diagnosed, more than 50 other households and staff in the nursing home have developed symptoms and are undergoing isolation testing.
Life Care Center共有108名住户和180名工作人员。
Life Care Center has 108 households and 180 staff members.
而住户和工作人员并非唯一受影响的人群。
Households and workers are not the only ones affected.
接到养老院报警、对住户实施救助时，有25名消防员和两名警察赶到现场。
Twenty-five firefighters and two police officers arrived at the home when the residents were called to help.
由于进入养老院时没有进行防护，到过现场的消防员和警察目前正在接受隔离观察。
Firefighters and police who arrived at the nursing home are currently being quarantined because there was no protection when entering the home.
这也意味着柯克兰市有四分之一的消防员都遭到了隔离，该市一共有100名消防员。
That means a quarter of the city's firefighters are quarantined, with a total of 100 firefighters.
在此之前一周，华盛顿湖技术学院的16名护士专业学生曾到养老院参观。
A week earlier, 16 nursing students at the Washington Lake Institute of Technology had visited the nursing home.
这些学生目前正在接受隔离观察，华盛顿湖技术学院则暂时关闭了位于柯克兰市的校区，对校园进行消毒。
The students are being quarantined and the Washington Lake Institute of Technology has temporarily closed its campus in Kirkland to disinfect it.
除养老院之外，金县确诊患者中有一人为西雅图地区的邮局工作人员。
In addition to the nursing home, one of the confirmed patients in King County is a post office worker in the Seattle area.
当地邮政部门表示，这名确诊员工所工作的部门主要负责营销邮件和包裹业务，没有处理个人邮政业务。
The local postal service said the department where the confirmed employee worked was primarily responsible for marketing mail and parcels and did not handle personal postal services.
同样在周日，金县雷德蒙德市有六名医务人员因与患者暴露在同一环境中接受隔离观察。
Also Sunday, six medical staff were quarantined in Redmond, Kim County, after being exposed to the same conditions as patients.
目前，金县多所学校已经关闭，当地官员呼吁民众勤洗手并提前备好数天的食物。
Schools in Kim County have been closed and local officials are calling on people to wash their hands and prepare food for days in advance.
美国总统特朗普在周六的讲话中提到了金县的疫情。
In his speech on Saturday, US President Trump referred to the outbreak in Kim County.
他鼓励民众无需更改日常安排，称美国已经准备好应对更大规模的疫情爆发。
He encouraged people not to change their day-to-day arrangements, saying the United States was ready for a larger outbreak.
华盛顿州已经宣布进入紧急状态。
Washington state has declared a state of emergency.
截至3月2日，美国共有89起确诊病例，包括44名“钻石公主”号游客和至少24例美国本土病例。
As of March 2, there were 89 confirmed cases in the United States, including 44 Princess Diamond and at least 24 mainland cases.
2日，纽约州长科莫（Andrew Cuomo）发表声明，宣布纽约确诊首例病例。
New York State Secretary Andrew Cuomo announced the first confirmed case in New York on Tuesday.
患者为一名30多岁女性，在伊朗旅游时感染。
The patient is a woman in her 30s who contracted the infection while traveling in Iran.
该患者出现了呼吸道症状，但症状较轻，目前正在家中隔离。
The patient developed respiratory symptoms, but the symptoms were mild and he is currently isolated at home.
据美国媒体报道，该患者的居所位于曼哈顿，曼哈顿是纽约人口最密集的行政区。
The patient lives in Manhattan, which is New York's most densely populated borough, according to US media reports.
科莫在声明中表示，目前纽约市的风险依然很低，“没有必要过度焦虑”。
In a statement, Como said the risk in New York City was still low and there was "no need for undue anxiety."
美国此前的确诊案例主要出现在西海岸，包括加州、华盛顿、亚利桑那、伊利诺斯等。
Previous confirmed cases in the United States have been found mainly on the West Coast, including California, Washington, Arizona and Illinois.
华盛顿州有13例确诊病例，美国的首例确诊也出现在该州。
There are 13 confirmed cases in Washington state, and the first confirmed case in the United States is in the state.
据《纽约时报》1日报道，华盛顿大学流行病学副教授贝德福特（Trevor Bedford）研究了多名华盛顿患者的样本，对病毒的基因序列分析后发现，2月29日一名确诊患者感染的病毒或许来自首例确诊患者。
When Trevor Bedford, an associate professor of epidemiology at the University of Washington, studied samples of patients in Washington, D. C., genetic sequencing of the virus showed that the virus that infected a confirmed patient on Feb. 29 may have originated from the first confirmed case, The New York Times reported.
贝德福特指出，这两名患者虽然都居住在华盛顿的同一个县，但从未与对方接触，而最新确诊患者感染时，早已经过了首例患者能引发的接触传染潜伏期。
Bedford said the two patients, both of whom live in the same Washington county, had never had contact with each other, and that the newly diagnosed infection had already passed through the initial contact incubation period.
贝德福特推测，一种可能是两个病例无关，属于不同的输入性病例；另一种可能就是病毒已在当地传播了近六周，也就意味着感染的人数远高于目前检测出的结果。
Bedford speculates that one possibility is that two cases are unrelated and of a different type of input; the other is that the virus has been circulating locally for nearly six weeks, meaning that the number of people infected is much higher than currently detected.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
纽约首次确诊、西海岸两名患者死亡：新冠病毒继续在美蔓延。
New York City First Confirmed, Two West Coast Patients Died: New Crown Virus Spreads in US.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "纽约首次确诊、西海岸两名患者死亡：新冠病毒继续在美蔓延";。
var msg _ title = & quot; first diagnosed in New York, two deaths on the West Coast: the new crown virus continues to plague AT & quot; & quot; in the US.
var msg_desc = "前往救助的消防员和警察正在接受隔离。
var msg _ desc = & quot; firefighters and police who went to the rescue are being quarantined.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
