患癌儿童在武汉。
Children with cancer are in Wuhan.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
2020年1月23日，武汉封城。
Wuhan city, January 23, 2020.
疫情牵动每个人，有些伤痛是刺眼的、显著的、危急的、难以忽视的，而有些伤痛则隐匿于大众视野的角落、容易被忽略，但却渗透在受伤群体的每一个生活细节中，沉默却深刻——困守在武汉的患癌儿童和他们的家庭，正在经受着这样的伤痛。
The epidemic affects everyone, some of which are glaring, visible, critical, and hard to ignore, while others are hidden in the public eye and easily overlooked, but permeate every detail of the injured community's life, silent but deep - suffering from cancer-stricken children and their families trapped in Wuhan.
文｜罗芊编辑｜金石在我国，每年会有4万多名儿童患上癌症。
Qian Qian, editor of Qian Qian, more than 40, 000 children develop cancer every year in our country.
当一个孩子确诊癌症，他的人生便开始进入闯关模式，需要多少次化疗，什么时候手术，后续还需要什么治疗，医生都会给出明晰的时间线，抗癌治疗需要连续性，如果哪个环节耽误了时间，肿瘤将面临复发风险。
When a child is diagnosed with cancer, his life begins to move into a pattern of how much chemotherapy is required, when to operate, and what treatment is needed later. Doctors give a clear timeline. Anticancer treatment requires continuity, and if it is delayed, the tumor is at risk of relapse.
2020年1月23日，武汉封城。
Wuhan city, January 23, 2020.
这座城市里几乎每一个儿童癌症患儿家庭都受到了冲击。
Almost every child's family with cancer in the city has been hit.
因为疫情原因，武汉市多家三甲医院的儿科门诊都关闭了，武汉儿童医院也被设为新冠肺炎定点医院，几乎每个科室的医生都被抽调去支援抗疫，只保留了血液肿瘤科两层楼没有动。
As a result of the outbreak, paediatric clinics were closed in several hospitals in Wuhan, and Wuhan Children's Hospital was designated as the New Crown Pneumonia Hospital. Doctors from almost every department were evacuated to support the fight against the disease, leaving only two floors of the Department of Blood Oncology intact.
李建新是武汉儿童医院血液肿瘤科的主任医生，她这样形容这次疫情对癌症患儿的影响，「就好比打仗了，肯定是打仗的事最重要，大家都关注新冠的群体了，其他群体关注度就变少了」。
Li Jianxin, director of the blood oncology department at Wuhan Children's Hospital, described the impact of the outbreak on children with cancer. "It's like fighting a war. It must be the most important thing.
武汉儿童医院血液肿瘤科有80多张病床，几乎住满了患癌儿童，他们大多不是武汉本地人，却因封城被困在了武汉。
Wuhan Children's Hospital blood oncology department has more than 80 beds, almost full of children suffering from cancer, most of them non-Wuhan native, but because of the siege of the city trapped in Wuhan.
一些需要进仓移植的患儿，因为封城后血浆、药品缺乏等问题，没法按时进仓，但也无法离开武汉去其他城市治疗；而有些移植结束的患儿，家长迟迟不敢带他们出仓，仓里有24小时空气净化装置，家长会认为那是相对安全的地方。
Some children in need of a barn transplant were unable to get into the warehouse on time because of plasma and lack of medicine, but were unable to leave Wuhan for treatment. Some patients whose transplants had been completed were too late for their parents to take them out of the warehouse, which had a 24-hour air purification unit and parents thought it was a relatively safe place.
比起这些已经接受了治疗的孩子，那些初诊的患儿的处境更为艰难——他们刚刚确诊，正处在痛苦的发病期，还没有接受任何治疗缓解病情，家长迫切地希望孩子能尽快接受治疗，但现在武汉所有能治疗儿童肿瘤的医院都成为了新冠肺炎定点医院，带孩子去医院化疗，怕被感染，不带孩子去，有些高危的癌症患儿根本拖不起，按照患儿家属的话说，「不去那就是等死」。
Compared to these children who have already been treated, those who are newly diagnosed, are suffering from painful illness, have not received any treatment to alleviate their condition, and parents are anxious to see their children treated as soon as possible.
谁也说不准，治疗的延缓会对患癌儿童造成多么具体的影响。
No one can say exactly how much the delay in treatment will affect children with cancer.
癌症是一个复杂的病症，治疗是漫长的，一环连着一环，有时候就算遵医嘱按时做好每一次治疗，孩子的生命仍有可能会逝去，如果打乱了治疗计划呢？李建新说，「看每个人个体差异，有些人停半年都不复发，有些人停了一两个月就复发了」。
Cancer is a complex disease, and treatment is long, one link at a time, and sometimes a child's life may pass away even if every treatment is done on time, as prescribed by a doctor.
在儿童肿瘤病房，许多孩子都太小了，他们躺在病床上，妈妈给戴上口罩，没多会儿就开始哭闹，把口罩扯下来玩。
In the children's oncology ward, many of the children were too young to lie in their beds, their mothers put on masks, and soon began crying and tearing down their masks.
这些孩子看起来和其他的孩子并没有太多不同，因为不常出门，他们皮肤会白一些，通常都是小光头，他们依然很活泼，喜欢笑，会闹着要吃糍粑，要吃巧克力——他们不知道疫情有多危险，也不知道癌症意味着什么。
The children did not look very different from the other children, because they did not go out very often, their skin was whiter, their heads were usually small, they were still lively, they liked to laugh, they wanted to eat ciba, they wanted chocolate - they didn't know how dangerous the outbreak was, and they didn't know what cancer meant.
以下是三个被困在武汉的儿童肿瘤患儿家庭的故事，讲述这些故事的家长都提到了「难」这个字，他们上有老下有小，孩子又患上癌症，在疫情中困守武汉，「真的步步都是艰难的」。
Here are the stories of three families of children with childhood cancer who were stranded in Wuhan. The parents who told the stories all mentioned the word "difficult."
1荆州人付小平身上带着一股乐观劲儿。
Jingzhou people pay Xiaoping with a sense of optimism.
两年前，她的女儿「小橙子」才1岁7个月，就确诊了神经母细胞瘤，幸好，是低危的，医生说，这种病的临床治愈率很高，很少有死亡病例，和许多病友比起来，她甚至觉得自己很幸运。
Two years ago, her daughter, Orange Orange, was 1 year old and 7 months old when she diagnosed a neuroblastoma. Fortunately, it was low-risk. Doctors say the disease has a high clinical success rate, few deaths and feels lucky compared to many of her sick friends.
她带着小橙子做了8次化疗，每隔三个月来武汉复查一次，她还记得第一次来复查，听病友说有些孩子需要做骨髓穿刺，她问医生，「我们要不要做骨穿啊」，医生露出了一种「很好笑」的表情说，「你们做什么骨穿啊。
She had eight chemotherapy treatments with small oranges and visited Wuhan every three months. She remembered coming back for the first time and heard her friend say that some children needed bone marrow aspiration. She asked the doctor, "Do we need bone-piercing?
」后来发生的事情超出了付小平的预料，2019年8月6日，第三次复查，小橙子血项不对劲，医生给做了骨穿，她想，就算癌细胞转移到骨髓了也不要害怕，不是高危就好。
On Aug. 6, 2019, for the third time, the doctor had a bone-piercing operation on a small orange blood item. Don't be afraid, she thought, even if the cancer moved to the bone marrow.
结果出来，小橙子没有复发，而是又患上了急性髓系白血病，这让付小平难以接受，「我们低危的，怎么可能转白血病呢」，她想不通。
As a result, the little orange did not relapse, but suffered from acute myeloid leukemia, which makes it difficult for Fu Xiaoping to accept, "we low risk, how can leukaemia", she could not understand.
李建新说，低危神母细胞瘤继发急髓性白血病，这种状况十分罕见，是武汉儿童医院的第一例。
Li Jianxin said that low-risk goblet tumor secondary to acute myeloid leukemia, this situation is very rare, is the first case of Wuhan Children's Hospital.
当时，有医生跟付小平说，这个孩子还好好的，不可能抱回去就不治了，只要愿意治，医院会找方案。
At that time, a doctor and Fu Xiaoping said that the child is still good, could not be carried back to die, as long as willing to rule, the hospital will look for a solution.
小橙子开始了新一轮的抗癌治疗。
Orange Orange has started a new round of anti-cancer treatment.
经过3次化疗，2019年12月19日，小橙子进了移植仓，正常来说，小橙子1月底可以出仓，但因为膀胱炎耽误了几天，这几天，外面的疫情越来越严重，付小平很担心女儿被感染，带着她在移植仓里多住了三周，不怎么用药，一天需要花费一千多元。
On December 19, 2019, after three chemotherapy treatments, Orange Orange entered the transplant bay. Normally, Orange was released at the end of January, but due to cystitis delayed for a few days, outside the outbreak became more serious. Fu Xiaoping was worried about her daughter's infection.
小橙子在移植仓受访者供图作为医生，李建新并不鼓励这种做法，因为移植仓也需要正常的消毒轮转，但她也理解家长的心情——仓里是相对安全的，它封闭，有24小时空气净化系统，付小平是这样想的，「好不容易花了几十万移植，咬咬牙多住几天吧，出仓以后如果感染了，真的接受不了」。
Li Jianxin did not encourage the practice of using small oranges as doctors for transplant recipients, as they also needed regular disinfection rounds, but she also understood parents' moods - Cang Li was relatively safe, closed, with a 24-hour air purification system, as Fu Xiaoping thought.
许多肿瘤患儿家庭都在武汉儿童医院附近有个小小的出租屋，付小平家的出租屋，现在还困着小橙子的爷爷、奶奶、姐姐还有爸爸。
Many families of children with tumours have a small rental house near Wuhan Children's Hospital. They pay a small rent house and are still stranded with their grandpa, grandma, sister and father.
爷爷奶奶和姐姐都是专程来武汉等小橙子出仓的，想看看她，然后就回老家，结果没想到遇到封城，一困就是一个多月。
Her grandparents and sister had come all the way to Wuhan to wait for the small oranges to leave the barn. They wanted to see her.
封城后的武汉，事事都难。
Wuhan after the city, everything is difficult.
他们也想做防护，在网上买防护服，十几天不发货，最后商家主动退款了，给孩子买消毒柜，也不发货，护目镜没有，口罩更不用说。
They also want to do protection, buy protective clothing online, 10 days do not deliver goods, finally the merchant actively refund, to buy a disinfectant cabinet for children, also do not deliver goods, goggles do not, let alone masks.
付小平一边担心老人和大女儿，一边担心小橙子的爸爸每天去医院送饭，「如果带了什么病毒回去，全家都完蛋了」。
While worrying about the old man and his eldest daughter, Fu worried that his father would go to the hospital to deliver food every day. "If I bring any virus back, the whole family is dead."
超市十点开门，人多的时候，小橙子的爸爸不敢去排队，怕感染到病毒，但等到人少的时候去，又抢不到便宜菜。
The supermarket opens at 10: 00, when the crowd, small orange father afraid to line up, afraid of infection with the virus, but when people go, and can not get cheap food.
他们家里的政策是，大人多吃蔬菜，做点肉丸子汤，留给小橙子吃。
Their policy was that adults eat more vegetables and make meatball soup, leaving small oranges to eat.
更令付小平烦恼的是，医生说，小橙子的移植效果不理想，病友圈里有句话说，「移植有价，排异无价」。
To his annoyance, the doctor said that the transplantation of small oranges did not work well, and there was a saying in the patient's circle that "transplantation is valuable and priceless."
但她鲜少抱怨，和《人物》记者交谈时，她没有强调自己经济上有多困难，她只说，「这一大家人，生活开支，真是不好搞。
But she rarely complains, and when she talks to People, she doesn't emphasize how difficult it is financially. She says, "This family, the cost of living, is not easy to do.
」一份募捐信息显示，她来自农村，生大女儿怀孕八个月时，丈夫入狱，被判刑8年。
Her husband was jailed and sentenced to eight years in jail when she gave birth to her eldest daughter, eight months after she became pregnant, according to a fundraising message.
她为小橙子做了干细胞移植，移植两天后就进仓照顾孩子。
She transplanted stem cells to small oranges and two days later went into the barn to look after the baby.
谈到孩子，她没有唉声叹气，也没有哭，语气中甚至透露出一种欣慰。
As for the child, she did not moan, she did not cry, there was even a certain relief in her voice.
小橙子一直很坚强、乐观、活泼，除非是极不舒服，才会躺在床上，只要稍微有精神，「就感觉和正常孩子一样」。
The little oranges have always been strong, optimistic and lively, and lie in bed only if they are very uncomfortable. With a little energy, they "feel like normal children."
因为从小生病，她甚至比大人都要坚强，痛的时候会哭，但是痛过了，就忘记了。
Because of childhood illness, she even stronger than adults, pain will cry, but the pain, forgotten.
一岁多的时候，每次化疗结束去医院查手指血，她都会乖乖戴上口罩，如果付小平忘记了，她会跟妈妈说，「妈妈，口罩忘记拿了」。
More than a year old, every time the end of chemotherapy to check her finger blood, she would wear a mask, if Fu Xiaoping forgot, she would say to her mother, "Mom, I forgot to take the mask."
在移植仓的后期，小橙子得了膀胱炎，总是尿裤子，有一天尿湿了四条，付小平给她换裤子时说了一句「都快没裤子换了」，小橙子点了点头，说，「妈妈，真的对不起。
In the later stages of the transplant, the little orange got cystitis and always peed her pants. One day, Fu Xiaoping changed her trousers and said, "I'm almost out of pants." The little orange nodded and said, "I'm sorry, Mom.
」3岁半的小橙子很懂得表达爱，妈妈给她买了什么，她会想，以后我也要给妈妈买，妈妈对她做过什么，以后也要对妈妈做。
The little orange, three and a half years old, knew how to express her love, and what her mother had bought for her, she would think, I would buy for her again, what my mother had done for her, and what she would do for her.
小橙子有很多购物计划，比如，长大了要给妈妈买推车，自己的小推车是黑色的，等妈妈老了，给她买粉红色的，推着她出去晒太阳。
Small oranges have many shopping plans, such as growing up to buy her mother a cart, his own trolley is black, when mother is old, buy her pink, push her out to the sun.
她还对妈妈说过，要帮她冲牛奶，帮她洗手洗脚。
She also told her mother to wash her feet and wash her hands and feet.
有时候付小平看手机忙别的，小橙子会冷不丁地说，「妈妈，好喜欢你啊。
Sometimes Fu Xiaoping looked at the phone busy other, small oranges will say coldly, "Mom, I love you so much."
」过一会儿，又会说，「妈妈，我好爱你啊。
"Then he would say," Mom, I love you so much.
」付小平说，自己听的「心都化了」。
"My heart is beating fast," Fu said.
刚开始治疗时，付小平也曾经有过想要放弃的念头，和亲近的病友说，「如果哪一天我放弃孩子了，你们不要骂我呀，不要骂我狠心。
At the beginning of the treatment, Fu Xiaoping also wanted to give up the idea, and close to the patient said, "If one day I give up children, you do not scold me ah, do not scold me cruel.
」可真要放弃孩子，她哪里做得到，小橙子那么可爱，如果你问她，「爱爸爸还是爱妈妈」，她会伸出两个手指，「我爱爸爸妈妈，爱两个」。
"But when you ask her," Love Daddy or Love Mommy, "she would hold out two fingers." I love Mom and Dad, I love both of them.
在付小平的计划中，小橙子会在移植仓里住到三月底，如果疫情仍未结束，她也不知道要怎么办。
In Fu Xiaoping's plan, the small oranges would stay in the transplant until the end of March, and if the outbreak was not over, she did not know what to do.
她匆匆地挂了电话，因为小橙子要喝牛奶、睡午觉——这是付小平眼下最重要的事情。
She hung up the phone hurriedly because the small oranges were drinking milk and taking naps - the most important thing for Fu Xiaoping right now.
开朗乐观的小橙子受访者供图2赵梦烃有一张娃娃脸，她结婚早，1995年出生，孩子已经1岁零9个月了。
Photo 2 Zhao Menghydrocarbon has a baby face. She was married early, was born in 1995, and her child is 1 year old and 9 months old.
这个新手妈妈从小没经过什么风浪，出生在湖北大冶一个村庄，嫁的人是家里介绍的，两人都没怎么出去闯过，「属于那种在家里面待惯了的人」。
The novice mother was born in a village in Hubei province without much wind and waves. The married man was introduced by his family and neither of them went out very much.
她的孩子名叫陈帅，是大家庭里的长孙，生下来就很受宠爱。
Her child, Chen Shuai, is the eldest grandchild of the extended family and has been loved ever since she was born.
帅帅1岁零9个月了，话说不太圆，只会简单地叫几声「妈妈」。
Handsome 1 years 9 months old, the words said is not too round, will simply call a few "mother."
今年1月18日开始，帅帅总是哭闹，家人带他去湖北大冶人民医院，住院三天，一位老医生怀疑帅帅肚子里有肿瘤，建议转院到武汉，那时武汉的疫情问题已经开始在新闻上播报，赵梦烃有些担忧，但医生说，「如果要救小孩命的话，这些都不要想，直接过去」。
Since January 18 this year, handsome men are always crying, his family took him to Hubei Daye People's Hospital, hospitalized for three days, an old doctor suspected a tumour in handsome stomach, recommended transfer to Wuhan, Wuhan has started to broadcast the epidemic problem in the news, but doctors said, "if you want to save the child, these do not think, directly past."
当时，赵梦烃也担心过武汉的疫情问题。
At that time, Zhao also worried about the epidemic situation in Wuhan.
她问大冶的医生，「我只能转到武汉去吗？不能去其他地方吗？」医生的回答是，「可以，你到上海、北京、广州都可以」。
She asked Daye's doctor, "Can I only transfer to Wuhan? Can't I go anywhere else?" The doctor replied, "Yes, you can go to Shanghai, Beijing and Guangzhou."
帅帅晕车，武汉是赵梦烃最近的选择。
Handsome carsick, Wuhan is Zhao Menghydrocarbon's most recent choice.
1月21日，没来得及买口罩，只给孩子带了几件换洗衣服、一桶奶粉、一个洗脸盆，赵梦烃和丈夫、婆婆出发了。
January 21, before buying a mask, only to bring a few clothes, a bucket of milk powder, a washbasin, Zhao Menghydrocarbon and her husband, mother-in-law set off.
大冶到武汉这一路，帅帅有些脱水，到武汉儿童医院已经是下午5点，怕医生要下班回家，他们恳求医生，一定帮忙救救孩子。
Wuhan Daye to this road, handsome some dehydration, to Wuhan Children's Hospital is 5 pm, afraid the doctor has to come home from work, they begged the doctor, sure to help save the child.
当天，帅帅经过腹部彩超、增强CT等检查，确诊为肝母细胞瘤。
On the same day, handsome after abdominal ultrasonography, enhanced CT and other examinations, diagnosed as hepatoblastoma.
「初诊患儿的家长是最恐惧的、最纠结的。
"Parents of first-time children are the most fearful and tangled.
」李建新说，「他们会觉得这个病好大好大。
"They will think the illness is very serious," he said.
」25岁的赵梦烃说，知道结果的那一瞬间，她感觉「天都要塌下来了」，在她心里，自己的孩子「特别特别活泼，谁能想到他肚子里面长了一个肿瘤？」抗癌治疗是痛苦的，因为每天打针、抽血，帅帅一见到穿白色衣服的人就害怕，他开始害怕有人摸他，夜里睡觉，妈妈想拍拍他的背哄睡，都会吓哭他。
The 25-year-old Zhao said she felt "the sky is falling," and in her heart, her child was "particularly active, who would have thought he had a tumour inside him?" Anticancer treatment was painful because he began to fear that someone would touch him and sleep at night.
看到帅帅这样，赵梦烃也忍不住哭，医生宽慰她，「你只有照顾好自己，才能更好地照顾孩子，治疗是一个长期的过程」。
See handsome so, Zhao Menghydrocarbon can not help but cry, the doctor comforted her, "You can only take care of yourself, can better care for children, treatment is a long-term process."
开始化疗后，帅帅的抵抗力变得很差，赵梦烃听医生说，化疗在杀死癌细胞的同时，也会把一些正常的细胞杀死，帅帅现在「就像蚂蚁一样，稍微一点点细菌病毒，都会扛不住，就像一张纸，一捅就不行」。
After chemotherapy began, handsome resistance became very poor. Zhao Menghydrocarbon heard doctors say chemotherapy kills normal cells as well as killing cancer cells. handsome men now "like ants, a little bit of bacterial virus will not carry it, just like a piece of paper, poke it."
她很小心，夜里再冷，她也不敢把穿出去过的外套盖在床上，怕帅帅被外面的细菌感染。
She was careful that no matter how cold it was at night, she did not dare to cover her bed with a coat that she had worn out for fear of being infected by bacteria outside.
他们全家人都很节省，在医院的时候基本就吃一餐，一家人几乎没吃过肉，泡面和馒头轮着吃，馒头只有楼下罗森有卖，两块五一个，她嫌贵，不怎么舍得买。
The whole family was very frugal; they ate only one meal when they were in the hospital, the whole family had hardly eaten meat, noodles and steamed bread, which were sold only downstairs in Rosenne, two dollars and five dollars, which she was too dear to buy.
但是买口罩的钱她不会省。
But she won't save money on masks.
不到一个月，她买口罩就花了1000多元，帅帅的奶奶节俭，一个口罩戴两天两夜都舍不得丢，洗了以后晒干继续戴。
Less than a month, she spent more than 1000 yuan to buy masks, handsome grandmother thrifty, wearing a mask for two days and nights are reluctant to lose, washing after drying to continue wearing.
赵梦烃会很严肃地跟她说，「你不换口罩，帅帅会把病毒、细菌都吸到嘴巴里去」，奶奶才听话地更换口罩。
Zhao Menghydrocarbon will be very serious with her, "you do not change masks, handsome will be the virus, bacteria will be absorbed into the mouth," grandmother just listen to change the mask.
如果没有封城，帅帅会在2月1日第一次化疗结束后回到湖北大冶的老家，等2月底再来化疗。
Without the closure, handsome men would return to their hometown of Hubei Daye after the first chemotherapy treatment on February 1 and wait until the end of February for chemotherapy.
出院那天，赵梦烃曾试图找一辆出租车带自己出城，结果那辆车开到一个郊外路口就让他们下车，她不肯，让对方送自己回武汉儿童医院，这样一来一回，对方收了她500多元，她很崩溃，「感觉到这里来处处被别人宰」。
On the day of her discharge, Zhao Menghydrocarbon tried to find a taxi to take her out of the city. As a result, she refused to let them off at a rural junction. She refused to be sent back to Wuhan Children's Hospital.
由于没有找到住处，赵梦烃请求医生，能不能晚一点出院，医生帮忙推迟了两天。
Unable to find a place to live, Zhao Menghydrocarbon asked the doctor to leave the hospital later, the doctor helped to delay two days.
利用这两天，她找各种朋友帮忙，终于租到一个30平米的开间，2300元一个月，没什么像样家具，一张床、一个沙发，空调、冰箱都是坏的，孩子在房子里冻到不行，房东说，让她自己找人修，如果不愿意租，可以退租。
In the past two days, she used a variety of friends to help, finally rented a 30 square meter room, 2300 yuan a month, no decent furniture, a bed, a sofa, air conditioning, refrigerators are bad, the children in the house frozen to no avail, the landlord said, let her own repair, if unwilling to rent can be returned.
「真的步步都是艰难的」，她在电话那头哭了起来。
"The real steps are hard," she cried over the phone.
帅帅的爷爷是农民工，两年没有回来过年，今年特地回来看看孙子，现在一个人在老家，每天眼睛红红的，在家里喝酒，哭，赵梦烃不敢给帅帅爷爷打电话，讲一次爷爷哭一次，她心里面也疼。
The handsome grandfather is a migrant worker, two years did not come back to see the New Year, this year specially came back to see her grandson, now a person in her hometown, every day red eyes, drinking at home, crying, Zhao Mengxin dare not call handsome grandfather, once told Grandpa cry once, her heart ache.
出院后，帅帅爸爸负责买菜，每次回来，赵梦烃说自己，「就跟神经一样」，拿消毒水喷丈夫，用湿纸巾擦擦擦，衣服鞋子都放到外面去晒。
After being discharged from hospital, handsome father is in charge of buying vegetables. Every time he comes back, Zhao Mengxin says, "Just like nerves." He sprays his husband with disinfectant water, wipes his clothes and shoes with a wet towel and puts them out to the sun.
她甚至害怕一家四口人在这里回不去了，「感觉这个病毒比我小孩的病还恐怖」。
She even feared that a family of four would not be able to return, "feeling that the virus was worse than my child's."
有一天，帅帅的爸爸忽然说肚子痛，她以为感染了新冠肺炎，如果真是那样，她甚至想，「干脆抱着孩子从医院楼顶上跳下去算了」。
One day, handsome father suddenly said stomachache, she thought she was infected with pneumonia, if that is the case, she even think, "simply hugging the child from the top of the hospital building."
有段时间，她甚至感觉自己得了新冠肺炎，头痛、嗓子痛、全身乏力，她说，从来到武汉到现在，「一直都是崩溃的」。
For a while, she even felt a new crown of pneumonia, headaches, sore throat and general fatigue. "It's been a breakdown," she said, from the time she arrived in Wuhan.
前些天，帅帅爸爸终于买到了排骨，她焯好水，分成好几份，拿出一份在电饭煲炖了很久，加了红枣枸杞，汤甜甜的，帅帅很喜欢，他吃得好才有力量。
The other day, handsome father finally bought ribs, she blanched the water, took out a long time in the electric rice cooker stew, add dates Lycium barbarum, sweet soup, handsome very like, he ate well to have the strength.
肝母细胞瘤是儿童常见的肝脏恶性肿瘤，国内的总体治愈率可以达到72%，只是治疗费用昂贵，「可能要60到80万。
Hepatoblastoma is a common malignant tumour of the liver in children, and the overall cure rate in the country can reach 72%, although treatment is expensive, "possibly between 600,000 and 800,000."
」赵梦烃说。
"said Zhao Menghydrocarbon.
很多人曾劝她放弃， 「你们还年轻，还可以再生。
Many people have advised her to give up. "You are young and you can regenerate.
」但她从没想过放弃。
"But she never thought of giving up.
她的想法很朴素，就像每一个妈妈那样——「他是我第一个孩子，是我身上掉下来的肉，我怎么能放弃他呢？他给了我做母亲的机会，我给了他生命，我为什么要剥夺他的生命？而且肿瘤也不是他愿意长的」。
Her thoughts were simple, like every mother's - "He was my first child, the meat that fell from me, how could I give him up? He gave me the chance to be a mother, I gave him life, and why should I take him away? And the tumor was not what he wanted."
这位新手妈妈正在飞速成长，她学会收起眼泪，开始劝孩子奶奶，不要在小孩面前哭，她发现小朋友其实什么都懂，「你哭他会知道的，你一哭，他会特别暴躁，都不要你抱了」。
The novice mother is growing so fast that she learned to stop crying and start telling her grandmother not to cry in front of the kids. She found out that the little friend really understands everything.
她面前依旧有许多困难，不久，帅帅的第二次化疗就要开始了，疫情仍未结束，帅帅的奶粉也快见底了，母婴店也没有开门，家乡的奶粉店说不能发快递，但她想，「能扛一天是一天吧，不知道以后会怎么样，且不谈以后，不知道明天会怎么样，我们现在也是走一步看一步」。
She still has many difficulties ahead of her, the second chemotherapy is not over, the epidemic is not over, handsome milk powder is close to the bottom, mother and child shops are not open, home milk shop said can not express, but she thought, "can carry a day is a day, I do not know what the future, we do not know what tomorrow will be, we are also step by step.
帅帅受访者供图3命运给刘俊生开的玩笑有些残忍。
handsome interviewees for Figure 3 to the fate of Liu Junsheng joke is a bit cruel.
他的母亲患有宫颈癌，父亲患有肛肠癌， 去年9月22日，他唯一的女儿蕾蕾被确诊为急性髓系白血病。
His mother has cervical cancer, his father has anal cancer, and his only daughter, Lei Lei, was diagnosed with acute myeloid leukemia on September 22 last year.
儿童白血病主要分为急性淋巴细胞白血病和急性髓系白血病，前者的患儿数量多，大约占到75%-80%，这种白血病对化疗非常敏感，化疗效果远远好于成人，而后者进行常规化疗的预后较差，需要做造血干细胞移植。
Children with leukemia are mainly divided into acute lymphocytic leukemia, which accounts for about 75% -80% of cases, and acute myeloid leukemia, which is sensitive to chemotherapy and has a much better prognosis than adults, who require hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.
过去半年，刘俊生是家里留在武汉照顾女儿的主力，蕾蕾的妈妈在老家做收银员，只能偶尔过来帮衬——这是这个家庭唯一的收入来源。
For the past six months, Liu Junsheng has been the main caregiver in Wuhan, where Lei's mother works as a cashier and only occasionally helps -- the family's only source of income.
2020年1月29日，是蕾蕾妈妈计划来武汉的日子，他们要为蕾蕾进仓移植做准备。
On January 29, 2020, the day Mother bud plans to visit Wuhan, they will prepare for the bud's transfer into the barn.
封城突然，妻子来不及赶来，刘俊生只能一个人带着蕾蕾准备移植。
Fengcheng suddenly, his wife did not have time to come, Liu Junsheng only with bud ready to transplant.
更糟糕的消息是，由于封城造成的交通不畅，医院没办法保证移植所需的药品、血浆和血小板，蕾蕾迟迟无法进仓移植，只能先吃化疗药物维持——因为无法保证正常的移植条件，封城后，武汉儿童医院几乎所有需要进仓移植的患儿都推迟了移植时间。
To make matters worse, hospitals have been unable to secure the medicines, plasma and platelets needed for transplants because of the blockage, and Lei Lei has been unable to move into a warehouse until chemotherapy is administered first - almost all of the children in Wuhan Children's Hospital who need transplants have been delayed since the city was closed.
等待移植的期间，蕾蕾也无法接受正常剂量的化疗——急性髓系白血病的化疗用药量大，患儿用药后免疫力会变得极低，非常容易感染，由于疫情的原因，医生将用药力度减轻了，李建新说：「疫情期间，医生会权衡，肯定不会打很强烈的化疗，会在安全前提下稍微折中一下」。
While waiting for the transplant, Lei Lei will not receive the normal dose of chemotherapy - acute myelogenous leukemia has a high dose of chemotherapy and the immune system becomes very low and highly susceptible to infection. As a result of the outbreak, doctors will take less medication.
就这样，蕾蕾只能住在医院，一边接受维持化疗，一边等待移植。
In this way, Lei Lei can only live in a hospital, while undergoing chemotherapy while waiting for a transplant.
由于武汉儿童医院成为新冠肺炎定点医院，为了保护患儿减少感染，医院规定，一位患儿只能留一位成人看护，其余家属全部回家，送饭的话只能送到固定地点。
As Wuhan Children's Hospital became the designated hospital for the new crown pneumonia, in order to protect the children from infection, the hospital regulations, a child can only stay one adult care, the rest of the family home, food can only be sent to a fixed location.
其他孩子大多都有两位家属在武汉，一人陪护，一人做饭送饭，但刘俊生只有一个人，他没得选择，只能每天给蕾蕾吃医院的盒饭。
Most of the other children have two families in Wuhan, accompanied by a person, a person cooking meals, but Liu Junsheng only one person, he has no choice but to give Lei a hospital lunch every day.
化疗后，刘俊生会详细地记录蕾蕾的体温受访者供图从前，他虽然也时常一个人照顾蕾蕾，但可以医院出租屋两头跑。
After chemotherapy, Liu Junsheng would record the temperature of Lei Lei in detail. Once upon a time, he could take care of Lei Lei alone, but he could take a taxi to the hospital.
他照顾孩子十分精细，癌症患儿要吃得新鲜健康，牛奶喝的是低脂牛奶，肉类是市场买的新鲜肉，他两三天逛一次菜场，吃饭的时候蕾蕾先吃，他吃剩的。
He takes good care of the children, he eats fresh and healthy cancer children, he drinks low-fat milk, meat is fresh meat from the market, he goes to the market for two or three days, Lei eats first at dinner, he eats the leftovers.
他的全部时间都在为蕾蕾服务——夜里在医院陪着蕾蕾，早上6点起来，从医院走回出租屋，给蕾蕾炖粥，蒸红糖馒头，煮鸡蛋，8点送到医院，喊蕾蕾起床，擦脸，喂早饭，蕾蕾吃饱后，他会跟医生确定当天需要输的药物，再返回出租屋，开始洗菜，菜洗好后，他会用干净毛巾擦一遍，再择好切好，用温热的水泡着，然后回医院陪女儿。
He spent all his time at the bud - spent the night in the hospital with buds, got up at six in the morning, walked back to the rented room from the hospital, steamed lace porridge, steamed brown sugar steamed buns, boiled eggs, sent to the hospital at 8: 00.
等到中午11点多，他再回去炒菜，并且把晚上的菜准备好，也用温水泡着，等晚上回来炒，「每天反复这个程序」。
By 11: 00 noon, he went back to stir-fry, and prepared the evening dishes, also with warm water, until the evening back to cook, "repeated this procedure every day."
每一餐，刘俊生会炒2个菜，因为蕾蕾不能吃剩菜，他每个菜的菜量都很少，也不放什么调味品，就加点盐。
For each meal, Liu Junsheng fried 2 dishes, because Lei Lei can not eat leftovers, he has a small amount of each dish, no seasoning, add a little salt.
有时候他也觉得挺辛苦的，一直往返在医院和出租屋，但能保证孩子体重不下降，他觉得值。
Sometimes he found it hard, going all the way to the hospital and the rented room, but making sure his child didn't lose weight was worth it.
医院的盒饭显然无法达到这个水准——25元一份，刘俊生说，蔬菜居多，土豆、白菜、萝卜、豆角，偶尔能见到一些细碎的肉片，刘俊生不埋怨医院，他说，「可能因为病毒原因吧，现在医院的肉也紧张，我都理解。
Liu said vegetables were mostly potatoes, cabbage, turnips and beans. Occasionally he could see some finely ground meat. Liu Junsheng did not complain about the hospital.
」令他难受的是蕾蕾的身体，以前，每隔两三天他都会给蕾蕾炖排骨汤，现在蕾蕾吃不上肉，营养跟不上，免疫力很低，他去求助医生，能不能让食堂给孩子单独做点排骨，他愿意付钱，医院表示，很难为一个孩子去开这个先例。
"What grieved him was the body of bud, which used to stew rib soup every two or three days. Now buds could not eat meat, they could not keep up with nutrition and their immunity was low.
他本想求助病友，能不能给孩子做点排骨汤，发现病友自家孩子都吃不上几回排骨——现在排骨不好买。
He wanted to ask his sick friend if he could make some spareribs for his child, and found that the sick man had not been able to eat a few chops of spareribs, which were hard to buy.
有时候刘俊生也想，要不硬闯出去买菜做了送来，但他的良心又过不去，万一出去买菜身上带病毒了，把大家感染了，也太自私了，「不能因为你孩子，不顾别人了」。
Sometimes Liu Junsheng also want to, or forced out to buy vegetables to do, but his conscience is also difficult, in case out to buy vegetables with the virus, infected everyone, is too selfish, "not because your children, ignore others."
住院的一个月，蕾蕾唯一一次喝上排骨汤是因为外卖。
During her month in the hospital, Lei Lei drank her only chop soup because of takeaway.
那些天，刘俊生总是抱着希望点开外卖APP，看到的总是烧烤，他不需要烧烤，他只想要排骨汤，好不容易有一天，他翻手机，见到一份排骨炖海带，只有一份了，标价48元，他马上下单，给店家打电话叮嘱，「我孩子是白血病，不希望你给我做的多么好，只要干净就行，放点盐就可以了」。
Those days, Liu Junsheng always with the hope of selling APPs, always see barbecue, he does not need barbecue, he only want the spareribs soup, but one day, he saw only a chop stew, price 48 yuan, he immediately ordered, "my child is leukemia, do not want you to do so well, as long as it is clean, put a little salt."
外卖到了医院，没法儿送上来，他央求外卖员把电话给保安，他跟保安说明了情况，保安破例帮他送到了电梯口。
When he arrived at the hospital and couldn't deliver, he begged the takeaway man to call the security guard, who explained the situation to him and the security guard delivered him to the elevator.
电梯口的门是锁着的，只有一个30厘米左右的缝隙留给病人送饭，保安捧着排骨汤，越过那个缝隙，递给他，那天，蕾蕾把海带、排骨、汤全吃光了，她太久没有吃到肉了。
The door to the elevator door was locked and there was only a gap of about 30 centimetres left for the patient to take, and the guard carried the chop soup across the gap and handed it to him. That day, Lei Lei ate all the seaweed, ribs and soup.
前些天，蕾蕾的身体指标终于达标，可以暂时出院了，刘俊生想，「总算熬到头了」，但新的问题又来了，他不敢出门买菜，他怕出门染上病毒，更不放心蕾蕾一个人在家。
A few days ago, Lei Lei's physical indicators finally met the standards, can be temporarily discharged from the hospital, Liu Junsheng thought, "finally the end of it," but new problems came, he did not dare to go out to buy vegetables, he was afraid to go out to catch the virus, and Lei Lei alone at home.
「孩子刚刚出院，她现在走路都费劲，她很虚弱，她今年6岁，现在体重不到30斤，瘦的几乎就是跟面条似的。
"The child has just been released from hospital and she is struggling to walk. She is very weak. She is 6 years old, she is now less than 30 pounds and she is almost as thin as noodles.
你想象一个女孩，将近1米1的身高，体重30斤不到，今年6岁了。
Imagine a girl who is nearly 1 metre tall and weighs less than 30 catties. She is 6 years old.
」他如此描述孩子的状况。
"So he described the child's condition.
刚出院那两天，家里没有新鲜蔬菜，刘俊生只能变着花样给蕾蕾做鸡蛋，早上是煮鸡蛋，中午摊鸡蛋饼，第二天早上煎的荷包蛋，中午又摊的鸡蛋饼。
Just two days after his discharge from the hospital, Liu Junsheng could only make eggs for the bud in a variety of ways. In the morning he boiled eggs, at noon he spread egg cakes, in the morning he fried eggs, and at noon he spread egg cakes.
后来，他加入了小区的买菜群，和大家一起团购菜，他说明了自己的情况，拜托采购的人帮忙把菜送到门口。
Later, he joined the community of food buyers, with the group to buy vegetables, he explained his situation, asked the buyer to help deliver the food to the door.
群里一位同小区的武汉大姐加他微信，说，「我家里做了点排骨炖山药，给你送过去。
Wuhan, a member of the community, said in a letter to him, "I made some pork chops and stewed yam for you.
」他收到的那份排骨炖山药，满满一大盒，里面有十多块排骨。
"The chop of yam stew he had received was filled with a large box containing more than a dozen chops.
刘俊生感动极了，他知道现在买排骨有多难，他原以为，这位大姐只是家里做了汤，给蕾蕾匀一碗，没想到她专门给蕾蕾炖了一锅汤，炖到半夜两点钟，除了排骨汤，她还送来了蕾蕾爱吃的葡萄干、饼干和零食。
Liu Junsheng moved very much, he knew how difficult it is to buy ribs, he thought, the elder sister just made a soup at home, lace a bowl, did not expect that she made a pot of lace stew, stew until 2 o'clock in the middle of the night, she also brought bud favorite raisins, biscuits and snacks.
刘俊生说，他是一个挺感性的人，看电影很容易流眼泪，蕾蕾刚确诊的时候，头发都剃光了，洗澡的时候瘦得像火柴棍似的，他看到蕾蕾化疗前的照片，几乎每天都要偷偷流眼泪。
Liu said he was a very emotional person who easily shed tears at movies, shaved his hair when bud was first diagnosed, and was as thin as a match in the shower.
现在他不这样了，「我的眼泪都流干了，」他说，他不能哭，还要在蕾蕾面前笑，要让孩子快乐。
Now he doesn't. "My tears are running dry," he said, unable to cry and laughing in front of the bud to make her happy.
「可能你听我说话的口气，感觉挺轻松，只有事情真正到自己身上的时候，你没办法，只能去面对」。
"Maybe you listen to my voice, feel very relaxed, only when things really on their own, you have no choice but to face."
他对《人物》记者说，「我必须要照顾好她，因为她是我的，可以说唯一，我只有这一个孩子，我不能失去她」。
"I have to take care of her because she's mine, so to speak, the only child I have, and I can't lose her," he told People.
他觉得自己的孩子已经很坚强了。
He felt that his children were strong enough.
在医院，医生都夸蕾蕾，体质不错，髓系白血病化疗药物用得重，副作用大，身体扛不住就需要很多后续支持治疗，有些病友一个疗程花十五、六万，但蕾蕾前两个疗程的费用都没有超过10万元，她吃到了好吃的就很活泼，医生说，「瞧着也不像得白血病的孩子」，刘俊生听到这句话笑了，他多希望这句话是真的，他还会开玩笑地问医生，「你说会不会是咱医院诊断错误了？」采访这天，刘俊生终于收到了团购的蔬菜套餐，里面有蕾蕾爱吃的红心红薯和豌豆，他准备素炒豌豆，给蕾蕾蒸红薯，他希望下一次能买到蕾蕾最爱吃的香菇，等团购的肉到了，给她做香菇炒肉。
In the hospital, doctors praised bud, good physique, medullary leukemia chemotherapy drugs used heavy, side effects, the body needs a lot of follow-up support treatment, but some patients spent more than 100, 000 yuan a course, but the first two courses of buds cost no more than 100, 000 dollars.
但眼下，刘俊生最焦心的还是蕾蕾什么时候能够进仓移植，每拖一天，他就更加忧虑。
But at the moment, Liu's biggest worry is when Lei Lei will be able to move into a warehouse transplant, and every day he procrastinates even more.
他接连说了很多句「没办法」，好像这样能带给自己一些安慰，「这个病（新冠肺炎）真坑了很多人，但是也没办法，既然已经发生了，只能大家一起克服」。
He kept saying, "Nothing can be done," as if to bring some solace to himself. "The disease is a real pit for many people, but there is no way, since it has happened, we can only overcome it together."
2月24日，武汉市曾发布通告，称将为特定人群打开离汉通道，其中就包括身患疾病需要去外地治疗的人，刘俊生没有看到这则新闻，当天下午，武汉市新冠肺炎疫情防控指挥部发布消息：放开离汉通道的通告无效。
Liu Junsheng did not see the news that Wuhan's Xinguan Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command announced Tuesday that it would open the Han corridor to specific groups of people, including those suffering from diseases requiring overseas treatment.
刘俊生说，如果可以离开武汉，他一定会带着蕾蕾去别的城市看病，「不能再这么拖下去了」。
Liu said that if he could leave Wuhan, he would take buds to other cities to see doctors.
蕾蕾受访者供图（特别感谢向日葵儿童癌症公益项目对本次采访的倾力支持）没看够？长按二维码关注《人物》微信公号更多精彩的故事在等着你。
Riley respondents (especially thanks to the support of the Sunflower Children's Cancer Community Project for this interview) didn't see enough. More exciting stories are waiting for you to focus on People in two dimensions.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
患癌儿童在武汉。
Children with cancer are in Wuhan.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "患癌儿童在武汉";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Cancer child at Wuhan & quot;;
var msg_desc = "「步步都是艰难的。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "Every step has been difficult.
」";。
";;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
