1.8亿中小学生，最挑剔的他们到底想要怎样的直播课？。
180 million primary and secondary school students, the most picky they want after all what kind of live lessons?
人物记者。
Character journalist.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
2020年春天，一场突如其来蔓延全国的新冠肺炎疫情，让这个时期变得特殊，在家学习成为主流的方式。
In the spring of 2020, a sudden nationwide outbreak of pneumonia made this a special time for home-based learning to become the norm.
老师纷纷变成主播，家长不得不成为督学。
Teachers become anchors, and parents have to become supervisors.
然而，在线直播课究竟该如何上？很多人还是懵的。
However, how on earth should live online lessons? Many people are still muddled.
老师花式「翻车」、学生强撑精神的背后，人们正在重新发现在线直播课。
Behind the teacher's fancy "flip" and student-driven spirit, people are rediscovering live online classes.
文｜易方兴编辑｜楚明直播课开始了。
+ yeg + yeg The lesson has begun yeg-yeg's direct broadcasting.
周琴知道，接下来儿子上在线直播课的这一整天，她都无法轻松了。
Zhou Qin knew that she could not relax during the whole day of her son's online live lessons.
周琴是武汉人，一家人正处在中国最核心的疫区。
Zhou Qin is from Wuhan and his family is in the epicentre of China.
随着全国各地纷纷宣布延迟开学，别的问题都好解决，唯独孩子的上课问题让她犯了难。
As delays were announced throughout the country, other problems were easily solved, with the exception of the children, who made it difficult for her to attend school.
周一到周五是最煎熬的时候，每天上午要听全省统一的直播课，儿子的注意力经常分散，有时趁周琴不注意，就关了窗口看别的去了。
Monday to Friday is the hardest time, every morning to listen to the province's unified live broadcast classes, the son's attention is often scattered, sometimes while Zhou Qin did not pay attention, closed the window to see other.
到了下午，则是他们初中学校自己临时开的在线直播课。
In the afternoon, it is their junior high school own temporary online broadcast classes.
上课在qq群里进行，依靠语音来上课。
Classes take place in the QQ group and are conducted by phonetics.
看不到画面，注意力难免打折扣。
When you don't see pictures, you lose attention.
周琴不得不像一颗钉子那样钉在儿子身边，逼着他听课。
Zhou Qin had to nail his son like a nail, forcing him to listen to the lesson.
2020年春天，一场突如其来蔓延全国的新冠肺炎疫情，让这个时期变得特殊，在家学习成为主流的方式。
In the spring of 2020, a sudden nationwide outbreak of pneumonia made this a special time for home-based learning to become the norm.
老师纷纷变成主播，家长不得不成为督学。
Teachers become anchors, and parents have to become supervisors.
然而，在线直播课究竟该如何上？很多人还是懵的。
However, how on earth should live online lessons? Many people are still muddled.
老师花式「翻车」、学生强撑精神的背后，人们正在重新发现在线直播课。
Behind the teacher's fancy "flip" and student-driven spirit, people are rediscovering live online classes.
与游戏PK的在线直播课从不放心到放心的过程中，充满了斗争。
Online live lessons with the game PK are never reassuring to the process, full of struggle.
周琴要时刻注意儿子动向。
Zhou Qin should keep an eye on his son's movements.
儿子孙亮亮今年初一，刚升入武汉一所重点寄宿制学校，聪明、智商高，但容易粗心、自主性不强。
Son Sun Liang Liang early this year, just into Wuhan a key boarding school, smart, IQ, but easy careless, autonomy is not strong.
初中环境变化，孩子要从儿童变成少年，正处于家长无比焦虑的时期。
Junior high school environment changes, the child wants to change from the child to the adolescent, is in the parent incomparable anxious period.
在周琴家里，一开始，Ipad这样的设备都是严禁触碰的。
In the Zhou Qin family, at the beginning, such equipment as Ipad is forbidden to touch.
学校的在线直播课开始了，她依旧得在旁边盯着，不然还是会偷偷切出去玩；上课的姿势也要不断提醒，一旦发现要躺着听课的苗头，就要敦促打起精神来。
As the school's live online classes begin, she'll still have to stare, or sneak out to play; there'll be a constant reminder of the steps she'll take to get back on her feet.
学习成绩会不会落下，是所有家长都要面临的问题。
Whether academic performance will fall behind is a problem that all parents have to face.
儿子的线下补习班也停滞了。
My son's offline cram school also stagnated.
她只好采取新办法，报网课。
She had to take a new approach, newspaper lessons.
周琴曾在教育系统工作，知道被动逼迫孩子学习，起不到太好的效果。
Zhou Qin had been working in the education system, know that the passive pressure children to learn, not too good effect.
大年初一，她看到有人在朋友圈发作业帮直播课的免费课，连哄带骗地让儿子听了一两节，没想到入了迷。
New Year's Day, she saw someone in the circle of friends to help homework help live class free lessons, even cajoled his son to listen to a section or two, did not expect to be fascinated.
免费课后，她果断报了新学期付费课。
After class for free, she decided to take a course for the new semester.
「考虑到武汉疫情的程度，我们心里已经做好了这个学期都只能在家学习的打算。
"Taking into account the extent of the Wuhan epidemic, we have made it our intention to study at home this semester.
」儿子坐不住，她必须要选择一种孩子喜欢的，能够主动学习的课程。
"The son couldn't sit still. She had to choose a course that her child liked and that she could take the initiative.
跟儿子一起听了在线直播课，周琴才知道现在的在线教育，已经远远不只是一块屏幕那么简单了，已经成为一个专业性很强的体系。
With his son listened to live online lessons, Zhou Qin only now know that the online education, has been far more than a simple screen, has become a very professional system.
一个学生来到线上课，首先要自主选择班级。
When a student comes to the online class, he must first choose the class by himself.
孙亮亮的数学老师白浩天同时带4个班，其中1个提升班，3个尖端班。
Sun's bright maths teacher Bai Haotian is taking four classes at a time, including one promotion class and three cutting-edge classes.
提升班的教学内容与教材同步，适合基础弱，上课吃力的学生，尖端班则是针对课堂内容已经熟练，需要进一步拓展的学生。
The contents of the advanced classes are synchronized with the teaching materials, suitable for students with weak foundations and struggling with classes, while the cutting-edge classes are for students who are already proficient in class content and need to be further developed.
每个班型都会针对性地备课，每次课备课时间都在10小时以上。
Each class type will be targeted to prepare classes, each lesson preparation time is more than 10 hours.
老师们备课时所用的讲义，难度不在知识点的罗列，而是怎么生动有趣、抓住学生。
The teacher prepares the lesson when the handout, the difficulty is not in the knowledge point enumeration, but how vivid interesting, grasps the student.
线上课和线下补习班不同，几千个学生在屏幕后面，一旦觉得内容枯燥，很难有学生不去打游戏看视频。
Online classes differ from offline cram classes, with thousands of students behind the screen who find it hard not to play games and watch videos once they find the content boring.
本质上，这是直播课堂与网络游戏的PK。
In essence, this is the PK of live classroom and online games.
一份讲义的出台要长达4个月，反复迭代，集合多位老师的心血。
A handout should be issued for up to 4 months, iterating over and over, bringing together the efforts of many teachers.
能否把学生吸在屏幕前，能否让最多学生听懂，是两个必须要达到的标准。
Whether students can be absorbed in front of the screen, whether the largest number of students can understand, is the two criteria to be met.
每一课时，都要经历整个教学组的集体磨合。
Each class, must experience the entire teaching group's collective wear and tear.
一旦一个老师觉得学生有可能听不懂，哪怕第二天就要上课，老师们都会把教学设计推翻，一直讨论到深夜，直到得出一个大家都比较满意的讲法。
Once a teacher felt that a student might not understand, even if there were to be classes the next day, the teachers would overturn the instructional design and discuss it until well into the night, until they could arrive at a more satisfactory explanation.
如何抓住孩子的注意力，还要考验老师的个人魅力。
How to catch a child's attention, but also test the teacher's personal charm.
在网上，老师们根据性格特点形成自己的风格，段子手型、权威型、细致耐心型等不一而足。
On-line, teachers form their own style according to personality characteristics, paragraph type, authority type, meticulous patience, and so on.
一般而言，幽默有趣的老师最受欢迎，一些学生选择老师还有另一个参考因素，「长得好看」。
Generally speaking, humorous teachers are the most popular, and some students choose teachers with another reference, "good looking."
气氛是轻松的，老师们花样百出地吸引学生的注意力。
The atmosphere was relaxed and the teachers attracted the attention of the students in every way.
白浩天讲课风格非常幽默，不时还会自黑。
Bai Hao Tian's style of lectures is very humorous, and sometimes black.
他的同事、同为初中数学老师的张明哲有时会在课间休息时举办「K歌大赛」，吸引更多学生互动。
His colleague Zhang Mingzhe, also a junior high school math teacher, sometimes holds a "K Song Contest" during recess to attract more students to interact with each other.
好几次，中午吃饭的时候，周琴发现儿子都在跟她说老师今天课上讲的多么幽默。
On several occasions, at lunch time, Zhou Qin found his son telling her how humorous the teacher was in class today.
孙亮亮特别喜欢「大白老师」白浩天，母子俩都觉得他讲话很像《奇葩说》的辩手小黑。
Sun Liangliang particularly likes "White Teacher" Bai Haotian, mother and son both think he speaks much like the debater of "Flower in the Pond".
「大白老师讲平行线，讲到内错角相等的性质时，把一类图形总结成『猪蹄模型』，我笑了半天。
"When the teacher talked about parallel lines and talked about the equal nature of the inner and wrong angles, I laughed for a long time and summed up a class of graphics as' pig-shoe model '.
」孙亮亮说。
"said Sun Liangliang.
白浩天老师正在讲解「猪蹄模型」在线直播课甚至比线下班让孩子们产生了更强的黏性。
Teacher Bai Hao Tian is explaining that the live pig model is even more viscous for children than offline hours.
张明哲有时上完课，会在摄像头面前再多待十五分钟讲些延伸内容。
Sometimes Zhang Mingzhe will stay in front of the camera for another 15 minutes to talk about the extension after class.
大部分孩子愿意留下继续听完。
Most of the children would like to stay and listen.
「一般1200人的课，上完课之后，还选择继续留下来的有900多人。
"After the ordinary 1200 classes, more than 900 people chose to stay after class.
」辅导作业是为人父母需要翻越的另一座大山。
"Tutorial homework is another mountain that parents need to climb over.
为了跟线下班抢生源，也为了解决家长的切肤之痛，在线直播课发展出了主讲老师和辅导老师相结合的双师体系。
In order to catch up with the online students, and to solve the pain of parents, online broadcast classes developed a dual tutor teacher and tutor system.
辅导老师，是在主讲老师之外进行一对一答疑的「班主任」们，这是在线教育创造出来的新群体，直接决定一个孩子课后享受到的教育质量。
Mentoring teachers are "head teachers" who answer one-on-one questions outside the instructor, a new group created by online education that directly determines the quality of education a child receives after school.
辅导老师乐君大年初一还在工作。
The tutor was still working on New Year's Day.
她每天早上起床就开始改作业，300个学生的作业改到晚上10点，中途还要跟家长打电话。
She began to change her homework every morning. Three hundred students changed their homework to 10 pm and called their parents on the way.
有的家长忙、不配合，觉得「孩子做不做作业也无所谓」。
Some parents are busy, do not cooperate, feel "the child does not do homework also does not matter."
她连着打了3次，最后连最顽固的家长都被打动。
She hit it three times in a row and in the end even the most obstinate parents were moved.
在作业帮直播课，像乐君这样的专职辅导老师有超过5000名。
There are more than 5,000 full-time tutors like Mr. Lok-jun in Homework Live class.
每人对接两三百名学生，每天为学生改作业、答疑、督促学习。
Each docking two or three hundred students, every day for students to change homework, answer questions, urge learning.
一个学生上课时切出画面，也就是「开小差」或者「逃课」，系统后台都有显示，辅导老师会酌情家访，或是打电话催促。
When a student cuts a picture in class, that is, "desertion" or "truancy," the background of the system shows that the tutor will call home or call to urge.
学生在线学习、做题，大数据出具个人学习报告，也要帮家长进行解读。
Students online study, do questions, large data issued by the individual study report, but also to help parents to interpret.
周琴说，「我没想到的是，即便是下课后，也有专门的辅导老师每天联系我。
"What I didn't expect was that even after class, there would be a special tutor to contact me every day," Zhou said.
」她不知道，为了让这样的课堂出现在更多孩子的屏幕上，有不计其数的老师在全国各地调研、奔波。
"She doesn't know how many teachers around the country study and run around the country to get such classes on more children's screens.
跨过高山2019年8月，初中数学老师张明哲利用暑期唯一的一周休假，进行了一场5天5城的家访。
Across Alpine 2019 In August 2019, Zhang Mingzhe, a junior high school math teacher, took the only week off his summer vacation to make a five-day five-day home visit.
他到达湖北黄冈市浠水县袁垅村，那里有个学生在等着他。
It is indicated that there is a student waiting for him at these area.
张明哲在作业帮直播课主讲了一年多，对他来说，很多时候，学生体现为直播软件上的用户名和数字。
Zhang Mingzhe has been giving lectures on homework for more than a year, and for him, many times, students embody usernames and numbers on live software.
一个班的人数通常是上千人，讲课时，多一个人少一个人也没太大差别。
Class size is usually thousands of people, when lecturing, one more person is not too different.
然而，「我还是想亲眼看看我的学生。
However, "I still want to see my students with my own eyes.
」学生叫周甜，刚参加完50元暑期优惠课。
The student, Zhou Tian, had just taken the $50 Summer Bonus Course.
周甜是个提问专业户，下课时，逮着张明哲就问问题。
Zhou Tian is a question-and-answer specialist who catches Zhang Mingzhe and asks questions when class is over.
这让他好奇，这是个怎样的小姑娘。
It made him wonder what a little girl she was.
中午太阳正烈，在全村最低矮破败的一个砖瓦房前，周甜一家人热情地迎接张明哲。
At noon, the sun is hot, in the village's lowest dilapidated brick house, Zhou sweet family warmly welcome Zhang Mingzhe.
周甜身高1米6，极瘦，也很腼腆。
Zhou Sweet is 1. 6 meters tall, extremely thin, also very shy.
见到了「大城市里来的老师」，周甜妈妈很开心。
Meet "the teacher in the big city", Zhou sweet mother is very happy.
家里穷，女孩只能报市面上所有在线教育机构的特价课，张明哲是唯一一个来看望她们的老师。
Poor family, girls can only report to all online educational institutions on the special offer, Zhang Mingzhe is the only teacher to visit them.
周甜父亲生病在家，家里三个孩子全指望一口鱼塘，但最近养的鱼被邻居的鸡粪毒死了。
Zhou Sweet's father was sick at home and his three children were counting on a fish pond, but the latest fish was poisoned by the neighbor's chicken manure.
经济贫穷成为不可承受之重。
Economic poverty has become unbearable.
作业帮长期班课收费已经是行业里较低水平，周甜依然负担不起。
Homework help long-term class charge is already low in the industry, Zhou Suan still can not afford.
临走时，张明哲在给周甜的礼物里悄悄塞了1000块钱，「这钱，她拿来报课可以，拿来改善生活也可以。
Before he left, Zhang Mingzhe slipped a thousand yuan into Zhou's gift. "It can be used for lessons or to improve your life.
」但他们依然拒绝了。
"But they refused.
这是中国教育现实的另一个侧面。
This is another aspect of China's educational reality.
中国有1.8亿的中小学生，其中73%的孩子分布在三线到六线的地区，与作业帮直播课的用户构成比例高度重合。
There are 180 million primary and secondary school students in China, of whom 73 per cent are in areas ranging from three to six lines, which is a high degree of overlap with the composition of the users of the class.
在线直播课既然辐射全国，能否做到既为一二线城市的孩子提供课程，也不让三到六线城乡的孩子们掉队？周甜家门前回到北京之后张明哲有了动力。
After returning to Beijing at the door of Zhou's home, Zhang Mingzhe gained momentum when he returned to Beijing to offer classes to children in first- or second-tier cities and to keep three to six-lane children from falling behind.
那个瘦削身影常常出现在他的脑海里。
The thin figure often appeared in his mind.
他希望为更多欠发达地区的孩子传递好的教育。
He wants to pass on a good education to more children in the less developed regions.
张明哲把普惠教育形容为一座高山。
Zhang Mingzhe describes inclusive education as a mountain.
2018年之前，他用的都是全国教育最先进的地方产出的教材，北京海淀区。
Until 2018, he used materials produced by the most educationally advanced places in the country, Haidian District, Beijing.
但一线城市孩子们听起来轻松的题，低线城市许多孩子根本听不懂。
But first-tier city kids sound like easy questions, and many children in low-end cities simply don't understand them.
那段时间，他总是接到充满挫败感的反馈，「老师，你讲的课太难了」；「张老师你讲得确实不错，就是我孩子跟不上……」以初中几何为例，海淀区的试题里，题目是一个10条直线两两相交的几何图，希望学生求出对顶角和邻补角的个数。
At that time, he always received frustrated feedback, "Teacher, your lecture is too difficult"; "Mr. Zhang is really good, but my children can't keep up..." In the case of junior high school geometry, the question of Haidian District is a geometry diagram of 10 straight lines intersecting each other.
教材上只写了概念，没有提到相关公式和解法。
Only concepts are written in the textbook and no reference is made to the relevant formulas and solutions.
这道题如果没有基础，学生们很难搞明白。
If there is no foundation for this problem, it is difficult for the students to understand it.
主要的困难是，各地的学生水平基础不均。
The main difficulty is the uneven base of students everywhere.
这背后，是教育资源分布不均。
Behind this is the unequal distribution of educational resources.
不单张明哲，作业帮各个学科的老师都意识到了相似的问题。
Not only Zhang Mingzhe but also the teachers of various disciplines are aware of similar problems.
小学语文负责人孙颖经历过5年教育创业，跑遍了半个中国的教育机构和学校。
Sun Ying, the head of primary school language, has gone through five years of educational entrepreneurship and travelled to half of China's educational institutions and schools.
2017年全国开始推广教育部编写的语文教材，对读和写提出了更高要求。
The national roll-out of language teaching materials developed by the Ministry of Education began in 2017, placing higher demands on reading and writing.
然而，孙颖发现，许多地级市的老师依然按照过去的模式在教学生，「我跟这些老师聊，他们只知道换教材了，但换了教材意味着什么，教学又要有什么改变，了解却很少。
However, Sun found that many prefectural teachers still teach students according to the old pattern. "I talk to these teachers and they only know about changing the textbooks, but what they mean by changing the textbooks, and how the teaching needs to change," she said.
」一次，她在一个城市开讲座，问台下几百个学生，有没有读过曹文轩的小说《草房子》？结果只有一个学生举手。
Once she gave a lecture in a city and asked hundreds of students whether they had read Cao Wenxuan's novel "The Grass House" and only one student raised his hand.
「这部小说是部编版的推荐阅读书目，一线城市里，大部分小学生们都读过了。
"The novel is a recommended bibliography, read by most primary school children in the first-tier cities.
」这让孙颖感到，形势已经相当紧迫了。
"This made Sun feel that the situation was quite urgent.
要把教育资源推向全国，就要打造适合全国学生的在线直播课。
To bring educational resources to the country, it is necessary to create online live classes suitable for students all over the country.
作业帮直播课的探索是从小学数学开始的。
Homework help live class exploration starts from elementary school mathematics.
小学数学老师董伟已有十年教龄，加入作业帮直播课的第一件事，就是和团队打造一款面向各地的数学同步课。
Dong Wei, a primary school math teacher, has been teaching for ten years. The first thing he did when he joined the class was to create a local math synchronization class with the team.
此前，主要教育机构都面向一二线城市，重点满足这些地区孩子的思维特训需求，全国三到六线城市的孩子竟被意外地忽视了。
Previously, the main educational institutions were oriented to first- and second-tier cities, focusing on meeting the mental-training needs of children in those areas.
作业帮打算补上这个空白，董伟感到很兴奋，但没想到经历了一波三折。
Dong Wei felt very excited when he tried to fill the gap, but he didn't expect to go through a lot of twists and turns.
刚开始想的比较简单，把课程降低一些难度，结果发现学生还是听不懂，就一直调，半年后还是觉得难，这才决定把课程体系变成同步培优，然后发现方向选对了。
In the first place, it is difficult for students to understand the courses. After half a year, they still feel difficult. Then they decide to change the course system into a synchronous one, and then find the right direction.
新的数学同步培优课，依据人教版、北师版、苏教版大纲，完全按照学校的节奏走，帮助学生打牢基础、拓展提升，同时增加课程的趣味性。
The new Math Synchronization Course is based on the syllabus of the People's, North and Su versions. It follows the pace of the school and helps students strengthen their foundation, broaden their horizons and enhance the fun of the curriculum.
没想到推出后成了爆款，每学期有几十万学生。
Unexpectedly launched after the explosion of money, every semester there are hundreds of thousands of students.
现在，小学数学同步培优课已经拥有成熟的课程体系，从教研到技术有一个完整的链条。
At present, the primary school mathematics synchronous excellent course already has the mature curriculum system, from the teaching research to the technology has a complete chain.
小学数学的突破，为包括张明哲在内的各学科老师带来启发：在中国，现阶段最需要满足的依然是最基本的需求。
The breakthrough in primary school mathematics has inspired teachers in all disciplines, including Zhang Mingzhe: the most basic needs to be met at this stage in China.
老师们以此为支点，以同步课为主打、培优课为延伸，找到了把好课程推向全国的新定位，形成了各学科课程体系，如高中「快数学」体系、初中语文「全能卓越」体系、小学英语Super E课程体系。
With this fulcrum as their fulcrum, teachers have found the new orientation to push the good curriculum to the whole country, and formed the curriculum system of various subjects, such as "Fast Mathematics" in senior middle school, "All-round Excellence" in junior middle school and Super E in primary school.
教育资源的渗透，不光是给学生，还要给家长。
The infiltration of educational resources is not only for students but also for parents.
辅导老师乐君常常要给家长普及正确的教育理念，她接触的很多家长都以为，教育就是扔给学校的事儿。
The tutor, Mr. Lok-jun, often has to popularize the correct educational philosophy for parents, and many of the parents she comes into contact with assume that education is a matter for the school.
一些家长的教育方式也要重塑。
The way some parents educate themselves has to be reshaped.
有一次，一位辅导老师提醒家长，学生没有来上课。
On one occasion, a tutor reminded parents that students were not coming to class.
一小时后，家长把孩子暴揍一顿，并发来了打孩子的照片。
An hour later, the parents gave the child a good beating and came up with pictures of the child being beaten.
辅导老师哭笑不得，赶紧进行劝导。
Mentoring teachers can not laugh and cry, hurry to persuade.
在线教育蓬勃发展的这几年，作业帮最先触达了全国更多学生，已经拥有累计8亿用户，旗下app月活跃用户1.7亿。
In those years of booming online education, homework helped reach more students nationwide first, with 800 million users and 170 million apps active in the month.
今年春节，面向全国中小学生推出的免费直播课，服务了超过3000万学生。
This Spring Festival, for primary and secondary school students across the country launched a free live course, serving more than 30 million students.
能教到全国各地，尤其是偏远乡镇的孩子们，让张明哲感觉身上的责任更重了。
Being able to teach children all over the country, especially in remote townships, makes Zhang feel more responsible.
「在普通人无法想象的困难环境里，需要更适合的在线直播课。
"In a difficult environment unimaginable for ordinary people, there is a need for more appropriate live online classes.
」辅导老师乐君出个大招一定要想出办法。
"The tutor, Le jun, made a big move and must come up with something.
何连伟已经当了八年老师。
He has been a teacher for eight years.
之前他一度觉得到了职业瓶颈，尽管喜欢这份职业，但许多问题作为老师也没法解决。
At one point he felt a career bottleneck, and though he liked the career, many problems were beyond the reach of a teacher.
进入作业帮后，他开始接手物理教研项目，突然发现自己在做一件沙漠中开江河的新事。
After entering the homework, he began to take over the physics teaching and research project and suddenly found himself doing something new in the desert running a river.
「既然针对全国的物理在线教育是一片空白，为啥我们不能打造自己的体系？」2018年起，作业帮各学科老师开始摸索全国学生都能听懂的在线直播课，高中「易物理」课程体系就此产生，其中一个核心是「大招体系」。
"Since physical online education for the whole country is a blank space, why can't we build our own system?" Starting in 2018, homework has helped teachers of all disciplines to explore online live courses that students across the country can understand. One of the core elements of the "E-Physics" curriculum in senior secondary schools is the "Big Trick System."
教研组招来一批优质教师，专门研发高中物理的解题「大招」。
The team recruited a group of high-quality teachers specializing in the development of high school physics solutions "big move."
其中有个老师是何连伟过去的同事，「他讲课比较严肃，不适合在线上讲课，但是搞教研是一把好手，一个人就想出了60%的大招。
One of the teachers, a former colleague of Mr. Ho's, said: "He is too serious to lecture online, but he is a good teacher.
」大招是个好东西。
"Big move is a good thing.
无论是一线城市，还是五线城市的学生，只要学到了招式，遇到题目都可以快速分解。
No matter first-tier city, or five-line city students, as long as they learn moves, problems can be quickly broken down.
何连伟的目标是，总结一套覆盖高中物理所有题型的大招体系。
He Lianwei's goal is to summarize a set of high school physics problem types covered by the big move system.
任务量下发到每个老师头上，每人每周都要有产出。
The amount of work goes to each teacher, and each person has to produce something each week.
有段时间，物理组的老师们走在路上都在琢磨。
For a while, the physics teachers were wondering as they walked along the road.
历时一年半，高中物理大招体系终于搭建完成，一共112个，都是从最基础的原理演化而来，是拈花飞叶的「武林秘籍」。
Over a year and a half, high school physics system was finally set up, a total of 112, all from the most basic principles evolved, is the flower flying leaves "WuLin secret book."
无论基础好还是基础差的学生都能搞懂。
Both good and poor students can understand.
学生解题效率有了质变，就像是打游戏「开了挂」。
There is a qualitative change in the efficiency of student problem-solving, like playing a game "open hanging."
一些学生对大招产生了饥渴。
Some students are hungry for big moves.
「我一上课，他们就眼巴巴地专门等着我讲大招。
"As soon as I had my class, they waited for me to talk big and loud.
」这种时候，何连伟也得收着点儿，「我会告诉他们，灵活使用大招的前提，是要搞明白基础知识。
"At times like this, he would have to keep it a bit." I would tell them that the prerequisite for being flexible is to understand the basics.
」大招体系不仅让更多人听得明白，还在突破在线直播课的天花板。
The Big Bang system is not only making more people understand it, but is also breaking through the ceiling of live online classes.
何连伟发起了一个「百人满分计划」，希望带领100个学生高中物理考出满分。
He launched a "100 Person Full Score Scheme" to lead 100 students to a full mark in high school physics.
这个计划听起来很疯狂。
The plan sounds crazy.
高中物理的难度众所周知，尤其是电磁部分，很多学生考试时都会弃题。
The difficulty of high school physics is well known, especially in the electromagnetic field, where many students drop out of exams.
但他解释说，「满分听起来很狂妄，但在『易物理』体系下并非天方夜谭。
However, he explained, "Full marks may sound arrogant, but they are not impossible under the" physics "system.
」何连伟做了大量细碎工作，备课时每一道题、每一个选项都会斟酌，学生可能在什么地方遇到思维障碍，要怎么样去诠释。
"He did a lot of detailed work. Every problem and every option in preparing for class was weighed. Where and how students might encounter mental retardation.
「我会给有能力的学生预留一些进阶题目，让学生们找到更合适的解题方法。
"I will reserve advanced questions for students who are able to work out more appropriate solutions.
」如今，满分计划已经初见成效，已经有6名同学突破了「不可能」。
Now, the Full Score Scheme has started to pay off. Six students have already broken through the impossible.
第一个考满分的是一名女生，她难以置信地发来微信：「老师，我竟然物理真的考了一百分！」高中物理老师何连伟其他学科也在课程体系下打造出了大招，光初中数学就有196个。
The first full mark was given by a girl who sent an incredible message saying, "Teacher, I really did get a hundred marks in physics!" His physics teacher, He Lianwei, made some big moves in the curriculum, 196 in junior high school math alone.
「如果你把这196个大招都搞明白了，150分的卷子，得个145分没什么问题。
"If you figure out all 196 tricks, you get a 145 out of 150.
」在初中数学老师张明哲的课堂上，学生可以靠大招体系理解听不懂的地方。
In the middle school math teacher Zhang Mingzhe's class, students can rely on a big move system to understand what they don't understand.
拿「10条直线两两相交问题」来说，老师们为学生总结出「相交大招」，从两条线的相交开始讲起，最后总结出规律：n条线两两相交，会有n（n-1）个对顶角。
At the end of the passage, you will be given 10 seconds to answer the questions. You will be asked to answer the questions. You should write at least 120 words according to the outline given below in Chinese.
高中语文负责人杨勇在教育领域摸索了十几年，一手打造了作业帮的「纵横语文」体系。
Yang Yong, the senior Chinese official, groped for more than ten years in the field of education, creating a "vertical and horizontal language" system.
一个文言文知识点，如果照搬课本来讲，学生会觉得没意思，老师们就去史书里找故事性强、生动有趣的例子，增加课堂的趣味性；同时，外国优秀作品的鉴赏也是阅读训练的内容。
If you copy a textbook, the students will find it boring. Teachers will look for interesting and interesting stories in history books. Meanwhile, the appreciation of excellent foreign works is also part of the reading training.
语文团队还出了一套12本「最美的文字」，用来拓展学生的知识面，增加阅读量。
The language team also produced a set of 12 "most beautiful words" to broaden students' knowledge and increase their reading.
语文需要积累，但这些「以学生为本」的讲法也是「大招」。
Languages need to be accumulated, but these "student-oriented" expressions are also "big moves."
语文组还在办公室安了书架，把能买到的各类书籍都摆在上面，随时查阅。
The Language Section has also installed bookshelves in the offices where all kinds of books can be purchased are placed and can be consulted at any time.
别的团队团建是去聚餐，语文组的团建是比哪一位老师会买书。
Other team building is to go to a party, the language group is more than which teachers can buy books.
教育永远在路上现在，即便自己不在旁边，儿子也能专心听课，周琴可以轻松了。
Education is always on the road Now, even if he is not around, my son can pay attention to the lesson, Zhou Qin can relax.
小学语文老师孙颖跑遍中国的那几年，一直在对各地语文老师进行培训。
Sun Ying, a primary school Chinese teacher, has been training Chinese teachers all over China for the past few years.
有的培训机构为了赚钱，希望孙颖两天之内把公司财务培养成语文老师。
Some training institutions in order to make money, hope Sun Ying in two days the company's financial training into a Chinese teacher.
这些见闻，让她感到在线直播课走向全国的迫切。
These observations made her feel the urgency of moving online live lessons across the country.
辅导老师乐君从来没有赶上过最后一班地铁。
The tutor, Lejun, never caught the last subway.
她每天盯着学生，水都顾不上喝，家长们都很信任她。
She stared at her students every day, with no water to drink, and her parents trusted her.
乐君出生于河南驻马店一个小县城，一直是县城中学里最优秀的学生，却受限于不可逾越的天花板。
Born in a small county town in Henan, Le Jundian has always been the best student in the county middle school, but is limited by the impassable ceiling.
高考那年，她考了全级第二，分数却只够一所二本院校。
She finished second in the college entrance examination, but only got enough points for one of her two colleges.
这种遗憾，是她督促学生的原点。
This regret is the origin of her urging of her students.
乐君记挂着浙江山区里的学生刘苗苗。
Lejun remembered Liu Miao Miao, a student in the mountainous area of Zhejiang Province.
她喜欢直播课，屋里没信号，在户外下着雨让妈妈打着伞也要听。
She likes live lessons, there is no signal in the house, in the open air under the rain let mother with an umbrella to listen to.
山里信号差，母女两人去山顶，坐着看老师直播。
Hill signal poor, mother and daughter to the top of the mountain, sitting to watch the teacher live.
山上很冷，又逢冬季，母女俩冻得不轻。
It was cold on the mountain and every winter. Mother and daughter were very cold.
她们哈着气，盯着屏幕，就像在看一束光。
They stared at the screen as if they were looking at a beam of light.
没看够？长按二维码关注《人物》微信公号更多精彩的故事在等着你。
Not Enough? More exciting stories waiting for you, two-dimensional attention to "People" micro-message.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
1.8亿中小学生，最挑剔的他们到底想要怎样的直播课？。
180 million primary and secondary school students, the most picky they want after all what kind of live lessons?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "教育培训";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & T; & quot;;
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "1.8亿中小学生，最挑剔的他们到底想要怎样的直播课？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; s
var msg_desc = "「在普通人无法想象的困难环境里，需要更适合的在线直播课。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "A more appropriate live online class is needed in a difficult environment unimaginable to ordinary people.
」";。
";;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
