一个健身教练决定去送外卖。
A fitness coach decided to take it out.
一个健身教练决定去送外卖。
A fitness coach decided to take it out.
苏苏。
Su Su.
人间theLivings                      。
The Lives on earth.
人间theLivings。
The Lives on earth.
以叙事之美，重构我们的生活。
Restructure our lives with the beauty of narration.
。
.
2月11号那天，我第一次跑完了35单；昨天很幸运，我跑了41单；下个月，我要开始自己的储蓄计划，每个月至少存5000元。
On February 11, I finished 35 for the first time; yesterday I was lucky to run 41; and next month I will start my own savings plan, saving at least $5,000 a month.
“我觉得，自己一下被推向了个人资金链断裂的边缘。
"I feel like I've been pushed to the brink of a personal financial chain break.
”佛山的25岁泰拳教练向罗勇很发愁。
Foshan's 25-year-old Thai boxing coach worried about Luo Yong.
以往有啥苦闷，他就上健身房举举铁，或者和人打一场拳。
In the past, he would go to the gym, lift an iron bar, or punch someone.
这一次不行。
Not this time.
疫情之下，健身房一直歇业，没有收入，每个月他要还5000元消费贷款。
With no income from the disease, the gym has been closed and he has to pay back $5,000 in consumer loans every month.
这样的苦闷，单纯靠锻炼排解，完全无济于事。
This kind of anguish, rely solely on the exercise solution, completely useless.
1月25日，向罗勇注册了美团众包骑手的账号，干起临时送餐的活计。
On January 25, Luo Yong registered with the U. S. group of crowd-sourced riders account, to do the temporary delivery of food.
跑一单挣一单的钱，头天跑完，隔天就收到钱。
Run a single earned a single money, the day before finished running, the next day received money.
和平常那些骑着电动车穿梭于商铺和小区的骑手不同，向罗勇是骑着自己的“死飞”自行车送货，因为害怕订单超时白跑一趟损失几块钱，他送餐时蹬得飞快，站起来蹬，蹬得喘不过气，比平时锻炼还累，“这就叫生活所迫”。
Unlike the usual rider, who rides through stores and neighborhoods on electric cars, Luo Yong delivers on his "dead" bike for fear of losing a few bucks for extra time. He pedals furiously, stands up, pushes breathlessly, and is more tired than usual in exercise.
而在距离佛山40分钟车程的广州，同样是因为打工的健身房迟迟不开门，21岁的潘俊超也决定成为一名专送骑手。
But in Guangzhou, 40 minutes from Foshan, 21-year-old Pan Junchao decided to become a private rider, also because of the late start of the gym.
疫情期间，各地人员隔离、道路封闭，省外老骑手返岗受阻，还在老家韶关的潘俊超在站长的连环CALL之下，提前回到广州入职，开始了自己作为骑手的“实习期”。
During the outbreak, people were isolated, roads were closed, old riders from outside the province were prevented from returning to their posts, and Pan Junchao from Shaoguan, his hometown, returned to Guangzhou early to take up his duties under the station commander's chain CALL and began his "internship" as a rider.
2月的广州，气温在20摄氏度上下，潘俊超骑着新入手的小毛驴穿梭在大街小巷，进出各类小区，看到各种风景，途经珠江时，裹挟着水汽的湿润微风拂面而来，让他心情舒畅，“很快乐的，像在旅游”。
In February in Guangzhou, where the temperature is around 20 degrees Celsius, Pan Junchao rode through the streets, entering and leaving various small areas, and seeing all kinds of scenery. As he passed through the Pearl River, he felt relaxed and "very happy, like traveling."
如此，两个年轻的95后健身教练，不论是出于被迫自救或主动转型，都在体验着另一份完全不同的职业辛酸和快乐——这也是疫情期间中国用工形态转移的缩影。
Thus, two young post-95 fitness coaches, whether forced to save themselves or transform themselves, are experiencing a completely different set of professional pains and pleasures - a microcosm of China's shift in employment patterns during the epidemic.
来自美团的数据显示，从2020年1月20日到2月23日，7.5万名劳动力成为他们的骑手，这一数量还在稳步增长。
Between January 20 and February 23, 2020, 75,000 workers became their jockeys, a number that is growing steadily, according to data from the American Mission.
新增骑手中，有37.6%都像他俩一样，来自生活服务业。
Of the new riders, 37.6 per cent are from the domestic service sector, just like them.
“我恐怕是佛山唯一一个骑自行车送外卖的骑手”@向罗勇，1995年生，现居佛山我恐怕是佛山唯一一个骑自行车送外卖的骑手，如果问我什么感受？一句话就可以形容——“我太难了”。
"I'm afraid I'm the only rider in Foshan who rides a bike to take away" @ Luo Yong, born in 1995, now living in Foshan. I'm probably the only rider in Foshan who rides a bicycle to take away.
我跟女朋友原本在同一家健身房工作，都是健身教练。
My girlfriend and I used to work in the same gym, both fitness coaches.
以前春节过后我们就会开工，最晚正月十五后也要开门。
We used to start work after the Spring Festival, but also after the fifteenth day of the first month at the latest.
因为疫情的关系，正常上班时间推迟了，只说3月份可以开工，但是具体是几号能上班，老板也没说。
Due to the epidemic, normal working hours have been delayed, saying only March can start, but the specific number can work, the boss did not say.
我和女朋友都觉得，开工好像有点遥遥无期，不如先找点赚钱的兼职吧。
My girlfriend and I felt that starting work seemed a bit far away. We'd better find some profitable part-time jobs first.
上岗第一天，送的第一单，接的是披萨店的外卖。
On the first day of duty, the first delivery came from a pizza parlor.
我骑着车，背上以前军队发的迷彩双肩包就去了。
I rode out on my back in my old army camouflage backpack.
披萨店老板看我这一身装备，直接傻眼了，说披萨不能竖着放，然后手忙脚乱给我整了一个外卖箱。
The pizza parlor looked at my outfit and stupidly said the pizza wouldn't stand on end, then scrambled to fit me into a takeout box.
这一天，我载着这个披萨店老板手做的外卖箱送了5单。
That day, I delivered five orders in a takeaway box made by the owner of the pizza parlor.
送完最后一单，下雨了，我是淋着雨回去披萨店还了外卖箱，然后再蹬车回了宿舍。
After the last order, it rained. I went back to the pizza parlor with the rain and returned to the takeout box. Then I pedaled back to the dorm.
可能是一口气骑了2个多小时没停过，蹬着蹬着，“啪”的一声，一个轮胎就爆了。
It may have been riding for more than two hours without stopping, pedalling, "snapping," a tyre burst.
当时我距离住的地方还剩3公里，咋办？继续蹬啊。
I was still 3 km away from where I lived, so what should I do?
还好我骑的是死飞，轱辘比较小，车胎爆了就爆了。
Fortunately, I ride is dead, wheeled relatively small, tires exploded on the explosion.
结果我发现，车子越蹬越重。
I found it was getting heavier and heavier.
一想，这也太不划算了——这死飞一对轮胎就100多块，我当天总共才挣了50多块。
On second thought, it wasn't worth it - more than 100 tires a day, and I'd only made more than 50 on that day.
第二天，我就送了一单，还是披萨，目的地很古怪，我还没找到地方，订单就超时了，白跑一趟，8块钱跑腿费全扣了。
The next day, I delivered a single order, or pizza, with an odd destination. Before I could find a place, the order was overrun.
再后面几天，我有事没去，加上前两天受的“打击”，就有点不想去送外卖了。
A few days later, I was busy, plus the last two days of the "shock", a little bit do not want to send out.
女朋友看我这样，便给我做思想工作，就说了一句话：“哎呀，咱们现在都没工作，不上班，需要生活呀，努力吧。
My girlfriend saw me like this, so I do ideological work, said a sentence: "Gee, we are not working, do not work, need to live ah, hard.
”我心说，行，我努力一点，挣钱去，毕竟自己还有5万多的外债，每个月要还5000多的银行贷款，没钱续上，心里很慌。
After all, I have more than 50,000 dollars in foreign debt left, and I have to pay back more than 5,000 bank loans every month.
压下去抵触的情绪，后面送餐似乎就比较顺利了。
Overcome the resistance, the back of the meal seems to be more smooth.
疫情最严重的那些天，订单多，骑手少，出去干半天外卖，可以接十五六单——我这几天跑得就少了，因为总感觉接单难，一个店门口蹲着两三个骑手，都是骑电动车的，我这样骑自行车的人哪有活路？好在，我有一些老学员在家憋得时间太长，主动约我上课了。
In the worst days of the epidemic, with more orders and fewer riders, I went out for half-day take-out, and could take in fifteen or sixteen orders - I've been running less these days because I always feel like having two or three riders in front of a shop, all on electric bikes.
|在店门口等待派单的骑手们做众包对我来说，不能算是特别好的增加收入的手段，主要是因为我骑自行车，远距离订单接不了，只能接送去近处的三五块钱的单，一般就两三公里路程。
Crowdsourcing by riders waiting at the door is not a particularly good way to increase my income, mainly because I can't meet a distant order by bike and can only get three or five dollars for a short distance, usually two or three kilometres.
我后来也会同时接几个“顺路单”，不过这个有风险，要是有一家店家出餐慢，就可能导致后面的订单全都超时，基本上这一串单子就都白跑了。
I'll pick up a couple of "drop-ins" later on, but it's a risk that if one of the stores slows down, it could lead to all subsequent orders running out of time. Basically, the list goes for nothing.
有一次接“顺路单”，特别惊险。
Once I took the "drop-by slip" and it was a close call.
那天我同时接了两个“华莱士”的订单，目的地距离店家都是2公里左右，但是方向上南辕北辙了，好在时间充足。
I took two orders for Wallace at the same time that day. The destination was about two kilometers from the store, but the two poles apart, and there was plenty of time.
没想到，店家出餐慢，需要等10多分钟。
Unexpectedly, the restaurant out slowly, need to wait for more than 10 minutes.
我在等待的那段时间里，见缝插针接了两单近的，送餐回来了，发现食物还没做好，给我剩下的时间，比预想的少了5分钟——这可真急死我了。
While I was waiting, I caught two orders between them, brought the food back, found the food was not ready, and gave me five minutes less time than I had expected--it was a real rush.
既然都这样了，那就再蹬快一点吧！东西做好，我拿起来就一路小跑冲了出去。
Now that it's all done, get a little faster! Everything is ready, and I take a trot all the way out.
北边的一单顺利送达，送南边的一单的时候，偏偏导航又出错了——因为疫情很严重，到处封路，手机导航规划的路线根本走不通，只能绕远路。
The one to the north arrived smoothly and the one to the south went wrong again - because the epidemic was severe, roads were blocked, the route of mobile navigation was simply impassable and had to be circumvented.
时间更紧张了，我直接站起来踩着脚蹬，速度比平时快一倍，蹬得我都喘不过气。
As the hours got tighter, I stood up and stomped on my toes, twice as fast as usual, making me gasp for breath.
等到了南边的时候，离规定时间差不多还剩1分钟，我赶紧打电话，上气不接下气地让顾客过来取餐。
By the time we reached the south, with almost a minute to go before the appointed time, I phoned and breathlessly asked the customer to come over for dinner.
当我把外卖交给对方的时候，一看时间，还剩30几秒——好险，以前在部队实战演习，我都没这么紧张，这就叫生活所迫吧。
When I handed over the takeaway, I saw that there were 30 seconds left - a close call. I wasn't so nervous before in the actual combat exercises in the army.
其实，这一单也就赚五六块钱，但是对我来说，通过努力得到的钱都是很珍贵的。
In fact, this single also earned five or six dollars, but for me, the hard-earned money is very precious.
我17岁就去南京当兵，在部队里待了5年，体能还不错，也擅长擒拿格斗。
I went to Nanjing as a soldier at the age of 17 and spent five years in the army.
退伍后，有个健身学院的老师问我想不想当健身教练，我就去学了3个月，随后又去曼谷进修了泰拳课程。
After I was discharged, a gym teacher asked me if I wanted to be a fitness instructor. I studied for three months and then went to Bangkok to take Thai boxing lessons.
因为工作，我换过很多城市。
I have changed a lot of cities because of my work.
从南京退伍之后，就到广东来了，最先是佛山，后来又去了广州、深圳，待过很多家大小健身房，包括知名的连锁店——毕竟，人想往高处走嘛。
After his discharge from Nanjing, he came to Guangdong, first Foshan, then Guangzhou and Shenzhen, and stayed in many gymnasiums and gyms, including famous chain stores-after all, they wanted to go up high.
现在又回到佛山，工作的健身房还是我来广东时最开始的那一家。
Now I'm back in Foshan. The gym I worked in was the one I started out in when I came to Guangdong.
见识过很多后，发现这里才是最适合我。
After seeing a lot, I find this is the best place for me.
我们健身房虽然也讲销售提成，但是专业度高，没有那么多销售业绩考核，适合我这种想走专业路线的低调教练。
Although we also talk about sales commission, but professional, there are not so many sales performance appraisal, for me to take the professional line of low-key coach.
而且这家健身房也更有人情味，教练和会员们很容易打成一片，会员们多来自于附近的电脑厂、机械城，有的在这边打工，有的自己开店，我们的会员费很便宜，一般人都消费得起。
The gym is also more humane. Coaches and members come from nearby computer factories, mechanical cities, some work here, others open their own shops, and our memberships are cheap and affordable to most people.
在健身房打工，主要收入是带私教课，教人用泰拳减脂塑身，也会带一些小孩打泰拳。
Working in the gym, the main income is to take private lessons, teach people to use Thai boxing fat body, but also take some children to play Thai boxing.
一节私教是300元，但是，收入很不稳定，像寒假暑假，约课的人多，我1个月可以拿1万多块的工资，低的时候也拿过三四千元。
However, the income is very unstable, such as the summer vacation winter vacation, about the number of people, I can get more than 10, 000 a month, when the low also took three or four thousand dollars.
当健身教练，挣的钱心安理得，上了课、耗费了时间，月底就可以拿到提成；可当骑手就不一样了，跑完一单挣一笔钱，你会即时看到收入，如果你白跑了，就没有钱，“结果导向”效果非常强，逼着你不由自主就紧张起来。
Unlike a jockey who earns a certain amount of money at the end of the month, when you are a fitness trainer, you can see your income immediately after a single run. If you run away without money, the results-oriented effect is so strong that you can't help but get nervous.
虽然我这段时间挣得并不多，不过也足以让我体会生活不易——以前做教练的时候，身边都是一些高消费的人群，跟他们接触时间长了，自己也被带动去高消费；做了骑手之后，我才觉得，哪怕是1块钱，也要珍惜，那是付出汗水挣来的。
I didn't earn much, but it was enough to let me know that life wasn't easy - I used to be a coach surrounded by high-spending people who spent a lot of time with them and were driven to spend a lot of money on themselves.
所以，骑手账号里的钱，我还都没有提现，等需要用的时候再取出来吧。
Therefore, the rider account's money, I have not drawn on the money, when the need to take out again.
我在佛山待了一年多了，平时，我除了训练就是去广州和大良那边学健身课程，以后的生活中可能会多一项新的项目——当骑手。
I have been in Foshan for more than a year. In addition to training, I go to Guangzhou and Daliang to take fitness classes there.
毕竟每跑一单，赚个二三十块钱，刚好能够保证我一天的生活费，我可以下班之后跑2个小时，从10点跑到12点。
After all, making twenty or thirty dollars a day just guaranteed my living expenses, and I could run two hours after work, running from ten to twelve.
我打算今年攒钱买一辆机车，可以平时骑，也可以送外卖，等于可以生钱——说来惭愧，我现在做的一切事，好像都掉钱眼儿里了。
I'm going to save up this year to buy a scooter that I can ride in normal times or take out, and I'm ashamed that everything I do now seems to be out of pocket.
以前我很不屑于做微商卖运动补剂的，觉得这会影响一个教练的专业度，但是，这几天我又重新发广告了，还是生活所迫。
I used to be disdainful of micro-marketing sports supplements and thought it would affect a coach's professionalism, but these days I re-advertised it, or I was forced by life.
有意思的是，我妈知道我在送外卖后说，“如果你做骑手，可以回老家来做啊”。
Interestingly, my mother knew that I said, "If you're a rider, you can go back home and do it."
我老家在湖南省衡阳市下面的一个小县城——当然，我不是一个听妈妈话的人，就算回去，我也会选择长沙。
My hometown in Heng Yang, Hunan Province, under a small county - of course, I am not a mother's words, even if I go back, I will choose Changsha.
等我年龄大了，干不了健身教练，再去考虑做专职骑手，或许也是一个不错的选择。
When I'm too old to be a trainer, it might be a good idea to consider becoming a full-time jockey.
“我太开心了，没有想到送外卖这么好玩”@潘俊超，1999年生，现居广州我算是慢热型的人。
"I am too happy, did not expect to send out so much fun to take away" @ Pan Junchao, born in 1999, now living in Guangzhou I am a slow-hot type of person.
做健身教练的时候，我就发现自己很难跟陌生人沟通。
When I was a fitness trainer, I found it difficult to communicate with strangers.
健身教练分两种：一种是私教，必须要靠口才——就是通过销售能力去卖课；另外一种是团操教练，一节课挣100多的课时费。
There are two types of fitness coaches: private tutoring, which requires eloquence - the ability to sell lessons through sales - and group coaching, which earns more than 100 hours of class time.
我纯粹是出于爱好误打误撞进入了这一行，最开始什么也不懂，只是喜欢徒手健身，就跟着网上瞎练。
I came into the business out of sheer love to stumble into it. I didn't know anything at first. I just enjoyed working out with my bare hands and practiced online.
后来我去健身学院学习了怎么做私教、怎么带团操，学了2个月，就去应聘教练了。
Later I went to the gym to learn how to do private teaching, how to lead a group exercise, two months, to apply for a coach.
广州有几百家健身房，我正式上班前，曾加入过一个团操教练兼职群，很多健身房会在里面招募团操教练代课。
There are hundreds of gymnasiums in Guangzhou. Before I went to work, I used to work part-time as a tour instructor.
一看到招募信息，我就接活，坐着地铁满广州跑，可以说，广州11条地铁的154座车站，我几乎都去过。
As soon as I saw the recruitment information, I took the job and ran all over Guangzhou on the subway. In other words, I have been to almost all 154 stations on the 11 subway stations in Guangzhou.
在健身房工作，可以天天锻炼，我很开心，唯一一点不好，就是我不太会做销售，这可能跟我的阅历太少有关，而且也不懂什么沟通技巧，总是卖不出课。
Working in a gym and exercising every day makes me happy. The only problem is that I'm not very good at selling. It probably has to do with my lack of experience and lack of communication skills.
可要想在健身房活得好，只能靠销售挣钱。
But if you want to live well in the gym, you can only earn money by selling it.
没有业绩的话，压力太大了。
Without performance, the pressure is too high.
公司也有业绩排名，排名靠前的同事，一个月能有十几万的业绩，而我只有一点点，有时还会被领导点名批评。
The company also has a rankings, the top rank of colleagues, a month can have tens of thousands of performance, and I only a little, sometimes by the leadership naming and shaming.
每天都处在这样的环境中，我就感觉很压抑，在团操课的舞台上也越来越没有自信了。
Every day in such an environment, I feel very depressed, in the group playground stage is more and more less self-confidence.
我知道我一直在逃避做“销售”的事情。
I know I've been avoiding the "sales" thing.
我的老家在广东韶关，初中没毕业，我就来广州读了一个中专，学的是“计算机网络应用”，3年后毕业，学校给我介绍了一份电话销售的工作。
My hometown is in Shaoguan, Guangdong Province, junior high school did not graduate, I came to Guangzhou to study a secondary school, learning "computer network applications," three years after graduation, the school introduced me to a telephone sales job.
我过去了，待了大概半个月，就发现实在不适合自己。
I passed, stayed for about half a month, found that really not suitable for themselves.
我原本以为当健身教练可以只做自己喜欢的事，没想到依然要“销售”，现在看，这个职业实质上是服务加销售的一种组合。
I used to think that being a fitness trainer can only do what I like, but I still have to "sell." Now, this career is essentially a combination of service and sales.
去年10月，我在健身房实在做不出业绩了，正好身边有一个朋友做“数字货币”，我看收益很高，就辞职跟他一起搞，第一个月就赚了5万元，但还没高兴多久，第二个月连本带利都跌没了。
Last October, when I couldn't make it to the gym because I had a friend doing "digital money" with me, I quit my job to do it with him. I made 50,000 yuan in the first month, but I wasn't happy for a long time.
那段时间我天天宅在家里，很颓废，也不知道干什么，脑子一片空白。
At that time I was home every day, very decadent, do not know what to do, a blank brain.
等到了1月，我下决心改变这种状况——但是我没太好的学历，又不想做销售，能干点什么呢？想来想去，我觉得可以试试送外卖。
By January, I was determined to make a difference - but I didn't have a good education and I didn't want to be a salesman.
其实我本来没打算那么早就入职，当时疫情形势还很严峻，爸妈也不同意我早早回广州。
In fact, I did not intend to take office so early, then the situation is still very serious, my parents do not agree that I return to Guangzhou early.
不过，大石站站长一直打电话催我，说他们很缺人，我跟爸妈保证，一定会保护好自己，就回广州了。
However, the station master has been calling me to say that they are very empty, my parents and I promise to protect themselves, and back to Guangzhou.
2月7日，我正式开始送外卖，实习期1个月。
On February 7, I officially began delivering takeout, a one-month internship.
当骑手的第一天，感觉广州就像一个空城，夜晚黑漆漆的，只有路灯。
When the rider's first day, the feeling of Guangzhou is like an empty city, dark at night, only street lights.
想来如果不是疫情，平常晚上，路上总会有各种小吃摊，热热闹闹的。
Presumably if it were not for the outbreak, there would always be a variety of snack stands on the road, hot and noisy.
但这样的广州，在白天也不会影响我的心情。
But such Guangzhou, in the daytime will not affect my mood.
以前天天待在健身房，和会员们大眼瞪小眼，没有机会出来逛，更没想到送外卖原来这么好玩——天天骑着小毛驴电动车到处跑，看各种风景。
I used to stay at the gym every day, staring at members, not having a chance to hang out, not to mention sending out a takeaway that was so much fun - riding around every day on an electric donkey to see the sights.
我们站点离长隆动物园很近，很多小区的景色都特别好。
Our site is very close to Changlong Zoo, many small areas are particularly good scenery.
坐在小毛驴上吹着江风，心情舒畅——这可是坐在办公室吹空调的人休假时才能享受到的快乐。
Sitting on a donkey, he was in a good mood -- the joy of a holiday for an air-conditioned man sitting in his office.
|骑着小毛驴电动车，穿行在城市中不过，第一天上班我就赔了20块钱，因为有一单在派送前没有把餐食固定好，路上菜洒出来了。
Ride a donkey's electric car through the city. But on my first day at work, I lost $20 because one of the meals had not been fixed before delivery and spilled out.
我跟客人说，实在不好意思，路上太颠簸。
I told the guest that I was sorry. It was too bumpy.
他接过外卖时没说什么，等我走了挺远的时候，忽然打电话跟我说，“实在没法吃”。
He didn't say anything when he took it out, and when I was walking a long way, he suddenly called me and said, "I can't eat."
我就原价赔偿他了，毕竟，这是我的个人责任，理所应当赔偿。
I paid him the original price. After all, it's my personal responsibility and I deserve it.
后来有一天的晚高峰，我跑单跑到电驴没电了，偏偏这个时候又来了2个新的订单，一个是蔬菜，一个是一堆熟菜外加一个大西瓜。
Then one evening at the peak, I ran alone to the electric donkey and there were two new orders. One was vegetables, one was cooked and the other was a big watermelon.
我没时间给电驴充电，就踩着电驴的脚踏出发了，速度一下就慢了很多，第二个订单送到时，已经超时30分钟了。
I had no time to recharge the donkey, so I stepped on the donkey's foot and set off much more slowly. By the time the second order arrived, it had already exceeded 30 minutes.
中途，我打了3次电话给客人：第一个电话没打通；第二个他接了，很不耐烦，让我快点；第三个电话，他生气了，说，“等我下楼看看，如果菜凉掉了的话，我就退掉”。
On the way, I called the customer three times: the first did not get through; the second he answered, impatient and asked me to hurry up; the third, angry, said, "I'll wait and see if the dishes get cold."
听到他的这句话，我心都凉了——超时这么长时间，菜肯定凉了。
His words made my heart cool -- so much so that the food must have been cold.
这个订单很贵，我拿货的时候还特地看了一下，150元左右。
This order is very expensive, I took a special look at the goods, 150 yuan or so.
我到了地方，等客人下楼时，下意识用手摸了一下外卖包装袋，还好，温的，不凉。
I arrived at the place, waiting for the guests to go downstairs, subconsciously touch the take-out bags with their hands, okay, warm, not cold.
我说，“先生，这还是热的”。
I said, "It's still hot, sir."
那人没说什么，拿着外卖走了。
The man said nothing and walked away with the takeaway.
我这才把心放下了。
That's how I set my heart at rest.
碰到这种情况，如果对方坚持要赔，我也只能认栽，因为客人不可能去了解你遇到了什么样的突发情况，你踩着电驴过来的累，他们也不知道。
In this case, if the other party insisted on compensation, I can only admit the plant, because the guests can not understand what you encountered the unexpected situation, you stepped on the donkey tired, they do not know.
“在实习期，超时是很正常的，后台也不会扣你钱”——这是我师父告诉我的。
"In an internship, overtime is normal and backstage doesn't take your money" - as my master told me.
上岗前一天，站长给我安排了一个师父，我后来有什么不懂的问题都问他。
On the day before duty, the stationmaster arranged a master for me. I asked him any questions I didn't understand later.
师父跟我说，接一单送一单，慢慢来，熟悉路线，最重要是，“不能有差评和投诉”。
Master told me, one by one, take your time, get familiar with the route, and above all, "No comments or complaints."
我记下了师父的话，从7号到现在，不仅没有差评，还收到几次打赏，钱不多，一般是8块8或者是6块6。
I took note of Master's words. From the 7th to the present, there were not only no poor comments, but also a few compliments, usually 8 yuan 8 or 6 6.
这对我来说特别有意义——就跟我之前在健身房带会员减脂，对方瘦了，我比他们还开心一样。
This means a lot to me - just as I used to take members off fat at the gym, and I'm even more happy than them when they lose weight.
这是体现我价值的时候，是别人对我的认可。
This is the time to embody my values, is the recognition of others.
同期比我先入职或者后入职的新实习骑手，都有过投诉和差评，我能做到没有，当然不是因为我长得帅，主要还是服务态度。
There have been complaints and poor reviews from new intern riders who came in before or after me, and I can't do that, not because of my good looks, but mainly because of my service attitude.
这半个多月我骑着电驴，从小巷子经过时候，会听到其他外卖小哥打电话，他们一般都是这样说的：“喂，你的外卖到了，可以下来了。
I've been riding an electric donkey for more than half a month, and as I walk down the alley, I hear other take-out guys calling, and they say, "Hey, here you go. You can come down
”客人下来之后，他们把外卖递给客人，什么都不说，直接就走了。
When the guests came down, they handed the take-out to the guests, saying nothing, and went straight away.
毕竟我之前做的是健身教练，属于服务行业，跟会员交流的时候很注重礼貌用词。
After all, I used to be a fitness trainer, a service industry, and I always use polite words when communicating with members.
我跟客人说话，总会说“麻烦您了”、“用餐愉快”或者是“久等了”这样一些话，还会顺便帮客人扔垃圾。
When I talk to a guest, I always say something like, "Excuse me," "Have a nice meal," or "I've been waiting so long."
我们一般是早上10点上班，晚上8点下班，比我早2天入职的同事跟我说，他每天就做够8小时，管它有没有单就下班了。
We usually go to work at 10 in the morning and close at 8 in the evening, and my co-worker, who takes office two days before me, tells me that he does enough for eight hours a day, regardless of whether he leaves work or not.
但是我每天晚上8点都走不了，经常熬到10点多。
But I can't go at eight every night. I often stay up until ten o'clock.
我给自己定了一个小目标——每天跑满35单，我是金牛座，会时刻计算着自己的荷包，只有保证每天33单，月底才能拿8000元的工资。
I've set myself a goal of running 35 tickets a day, I'm a Taurus, and I keep counting my bills. Only 33 bills a day can I get 8,000 yuan by the end of the month.
眼下，我很满意我现在的工作状态，困难肯定是有的，但是办法更多。
At the moment, I am very satisfied with the way I am working. There must be difficulties, but there are more ways.
做骑手比我在健身房挣的工资还高，那时最多的时候，我一个月可以拿6、7千，低的时候，只有4千多一点。
I earned more as a jockey than I earned at the gym. At my peak, I could get 6, 7, 000 a month and just over 4, 000 when I was low.
以前羡慕别人工资高，但是很迷茫，不知道怎么做，现在每天很踏实，目标明确，“做”就好了。
I used to envy others for their high salary, but I don't know how to do it. Now I am sure that I can do it well.
2月11号那天，我第一次跑完了35单。
On February 11, I finished my first 35 runs.
昨天很幸运，我跑了41单。
Luckily for me yesterday, I ran 41.
下个月，我要开始自己的储蓄计划，每个月至少存5000元。
Next month, I'll start my own savings plan and save at least $5,000 a month.
|即使时间很紧，我们仍然要在取餐前接受严格的消毒和体温检测广州很大，我想找到自己的落脚之地。
Even though the time is tight, we still have to undergo rigorous disinfection and a temperature test before we take our meals. Guangzhou is very big.
我之前有一个女朋友，很漂亮的姑娘，比我大4岁，家境也非常不错，在广州有车有房。
I used to have a girl friend, a beautiful girl, 4 years older than me, and from a very nice family, I had a car and a house in Guangzhou.
我跟她在一起总是很自卑，想给她最好的东西，但是却没有能力。
I always feel inferior with her, want to give her the best things, but do not have the ability.
我去年投资数字货币，挣了钱的那个月很开心，一心想着终于可以跟她规划未来了，但是这个美丽的愿景很快就幻灭了，我就不敢再见她了——为了她好，我应该离开她。
I was happy the month I made money in digital money last year, and I was thinking of finally being able to plan my future with her. But this beautiful vision soon died out and I dared not see her again.I should have left her for her own good.
年前，我给她发微信说，不想再浪费她的青春、不想再拖累她了。
I wrote to her years ago saying I didn't want to waste her youth and drag her down any more.
2月14日，情人节的时候，她忍不住给我发了信息，说了一大堆“会等我”的话。
On February 14, Valentine's Day, she could not help but send me a message, saying a lot of "will wait for me."
但是我不敢给她任何承诺，只想好好挣钱，完成每天的外卖小任务、每个月的存钱小目标，然后可以在2年半或者3年内买房——广州市内的房子不可能买得起，周边可以看一看，比如从化，房价只要一万六七，现在从广州过去也有地铁，很方便。
But I didn't dare give her any promise. I just wanted to make money, accomplish a daily take-out, a monthly savings target, and then buy a house in two and a half or three years. Houses in Guangzhou could not afford to buy a house.
我刚来广州那会，第一次看到“小蛮腰”，心想，怎么会有那么高、那么好看的塔；看到珠江新城，也很惊讶，觉得那里的楼太好看了。
When I first came to Guangzhou, I saw Xiao Man waist for the first time. I wondered why there was such a tall and beautiful tower.
我没有去过别的什么地方，我感觉广州挺好的，如果有可能，我当然希望在这里扎根。
I haven't been anywhere else. I think Guangzhou is very good. If possible, of course I want to take root here.
虽然我很享受在无人的路上骑电驴的畅快，但是我更喜欢到处都是人的广州。
Although I enjoy riding an electric donkey on a deserted road, I prefer Guangzhou, which is crowded with people.
真心希望，正常的日子早点到来。
I sincerely hope that normal days will come soon.
苏 苏一个积极的城市观察员。
an active city observer in susu.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一个健身教练决定去送外卖。
A fitness coach decided to take it out.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "人间theLivings";。
var nickname = & quot; at least & quot; at least & quot;
var msg_title = "一个健身教练决定去送外卖";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; A fitness coach decided to take out & quot;;
var msg_desc = "做了骑手之后，我觉得，哪怕是1块钱，也要珍惜。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="人间theLivings";。
var title = & quot; at least & quot; at least & quot;
