收银7年，我第一次看到超市成了战场丨人间。
Seven years later, I first saw a supermarket become a battleground.
西方无海。
The West has no sea.
人间theLivings                      。
The Lives on earth.
人间theLivings。
The Lives on earth.
以叙事之美，重构我们的生活。
Restructure our lives with the beauty of narration.
。
.
她希望疫情快点过去。
She hoped the epidemic would soon pass.
咳嗽时身边的人不再躲闪；出入小区时不用再带上好几张证件；每天早上开门时，第一眼见到的仍旧是对鸡蛋“虎视眈眈”的大爷大妈。
When coughing people no longer dodge; to enter and leave the community without several documents; every morning, the first to see the "covetous eye" of the big uncle.
配图 | Sipa图片社程姐是我几年前在江苏超市做收银员时的同事。
I worked as a cashier at Jiangsu Supermarket a few years ago.
她做事勤勉，为人温厚，对我颇为照顾。
She took good care of me because she was industrious and kind.
只不过多年不见，我们话题很少，这几年只有逢年过节才会相互问候。
It's just that we haven't seen each other for years. We don't talk much.
今年大年初一，我照例给程姐发了新年祝福，但几天过去都没有得到回复。
This year's New Year's Day, I routinely gave Cheng a New Year's blessing, but a few days have passed without a response.
彼时正值疫情爆发之初，武汉封城的消息，让我心中难免忐忑——超市全年无休，即便春节也不例外，我很担心她的安危。
At the beginning of the outbreak of the outbreak of Wuhan, let me unavoidably perturbed - supermarket throughout the year, even if the Spring Festival is no exception, I worry about her safety.
一直到2月5号，她才给我回了消息。
It was not until the 5th of February that she returned my message.
我连忙问她近况如何，过年是否一直在超市上班。
I hastened to ask her how she was doing and whether she had been working at the supermarket for the New Year.
她沉默了一会，随后告诉了我这个春节在超市发生的事情。
She was silent for a moment and then told me what had happened at the supermarket for the Spring Festival.
除夕之前，程姐回了一趟老家重庆。
Before New Year's Eve, Cheng returned to her hometown of Chongqing.
2018年春节，程姐的表哥结婚，程姐一家并没能赶回去，母亲心中很是过意不去，因此今年早早就通知一家老小，无论如何，也要赶回重庆老家过年。
2018 Spring Festival, Cheng sister's cousin marriage, Cheng Jie family did not return home, the mother is very sorry, so early this year to inform the family, no matter what, also back home Chongqing New Year.
为此，程姐提前一个月就订好了4张卧铺车票，又向超市请了10天长假，原定初五再回来上班。
Cheng had booked four sleeper tickets a month in advance and asked the supermarket for a 10-day long vacation before returning to work on Friday.
这是几年来程姐第一次在春节请假，往年这个时候，她都还在机台上一刻不停地给客人结账，“一方面是因为年底超市人手紧张，假很难请。
In recent years, Cheng took her first Spring Festival off work. At this time of the year, she was still checking out customers on the machine without stopping.
再说，法定假日有3倍工资。
Moreover, there are three times as many official holidays.
”程姐的家庭不算富裕，一家4口多年来都在外打工，家里除了她以外还有一个弟弟，在邻市的工厂上班。
"Cheng's family is not so rich. The family of four has been working outside for years, with a younger brother in addition to her who works in a factory in a neighboring city.
姐弟俩都没有成家，在弟弟搬去工厂附近租房住之前全家人一直生活在一起。
Neither brother nor sister had a family, and the family lived together until his brother moved to a rented house near the factory.
程姐也曾进过工厂，没干多久便辞了职，后来经人介绍来超市应聘，一干就是7个年头。
Cheng Jie has also been to the factory, did not work for a long time resigned, and then was introduced to the supermarket application, a dry is seven years.
因为工作，这些年她几乎算是和节假日“告了别”。
She almost said goodbye to the holidays these years because of her work.
节假日总是超市生意最好的时候，“结账的队伍就像开了头的线团，任你扯得再快也扯不干净”。
Holidays are always the best time for supermarket business, "the checkout line is like the first ball of thread, you can not pull the fast can not pull clean."
多年前，程姐在超市经历的第一个小长假就让她印象深刻：从早上8点上机扫码，头就没抬起来过。
Many years ago, Cheng impressed her with her first long vacation at the supermarket: she didn't lift her head when she swept the computer at 8 a.m.
扫了不知道多少个礼盒，购物袋用了一茬又一茬，杯子里的开水一直放到凉透了都没来得及喝上一口。
I didn't know how many gift boxes, shopping bags with stubble after stubble, the cup of boiling water until it was cool enough to drink.
中午换班吃饭的时候，中控（收银课的一个职能部门，主要对收银员进行调度）不小心遗漏了程姐，她自己也没有在意时间。
During the lunch break, Zhongzhong (a functional department of the Cashier's Office, dispatching the cashier) inadvertently omitted Cheng, who did not care about the time herself.
一直到下午3点钟，副课长过来给她送零钱时她才小声说了句自己还没吃饭，把副课长吓了一跳，连忙把她换下，还骂了她一句“傻子”。
It was not until three o'clock in the afternoon, when the deputy director came to bring her some change, that she whispered something in her voice that she had not eaten herself.
晚上收拾干净机台，程姐几乎是瘫在了板凳上，在课室里面坐了很久才回家。
At night to clean up the machine, Cheng is almost paralyzed on the bench, sitting in the classroom for a long time before returning home.
想着今年能好好过春节，程姐心情舒畅，站完最后一班岗，就把工作群设置为“消息免打扰”。
Thinking of a good Spring Festival this year, Cheng is happy, after the last post, set the working group as "news do not disturb."
火车的发车时间1月21日傍晚，这天一早，父母带着弟弟去商场买新衣新鞋，程姐一人在家收拾，下午他们回来的时候，程姐发现里面还有几个崭新的口罩。
On the morning of January 21, her parents and her younger brother went to the mall to buy new clothes and shoes. When Cheng came home in the afternoon, she found some brand-new masks.
“你表妹刚刚打来电话，说最近有一个什么传染病比较严重，让我们路上记着戴这玩意儿。
"Your cousin just now called and said there has been a serious infection. Let's remember to wear it on the way.
”话虽这么说，母亲的语气中却满是不以为然，几个口罩也被她顺手塞到行李中。
"That said, the mother's voice was full of disapproval, and a few masks were stuffed into her luggage.
下午，一家人拎着大包小包出发，去坐公交的路上下起了雨，一家人淋着雨吹着风，让她感觉很不舒服，整个人都十分萎靡，上车安顿好行李后，就再也坚持不住，软绵绵爬到上铺，很快就睡着了。
In the afternoon, the family set out to take the bus, the way to the rain began to rain, the family with the wind blowing through the rain, let her feel very uncomfortable, the whole people are very depressed, once the car settled down, can no longer insist on, soft climbed to the top berth, and soon fell asleep.
半夜醒来倒水时，才发现睡在自己下铺的是一个小姑娘，一路上都没怎么说话，很是安静。
When I woke up in the middle of the night, I found a little girl sleeping in my bottom bunk. I didn't talk much all the way.
姑娘戴着口罩，对程姐有些躲闪，“现在想来，也是情有可原，毕竟我们刚开始并没有听我表妹的建议戴口罩，又病恹恹的，她当然怕了。
The girl, wearing a mask, dodged a little from Cheng. "Now, it's understandable, too. After all, we didn't listen to my cousin's suggestion to wear a mask, and it was sickly.
”1月23号早上9点，他们总算到了老家。
"At nine o'clock on the morning of January 23, they finally got home.
下车以后，程姐打开手机才知道，武汉封城了。
After getting off the bus, Cheng opened her cell phone and found out that Wuhan had been closed.
在老家几天，虽然关于疫情的讨论也热火朝天，但程姐知道，他们并未多当回事儿，父母也是差不多的意思，“网上的东西看看就好，都信他们的日子还过不过了？”一句话把程姐噎得哑口无言，“说实话，其实那时候我也没太警惕，当然也不像他们那样完全不当回事儿，更不是说想传谣什么的。
In her hometown for a few days, although the discussion about the epidemic was very hot, but Cheng knew that they didn't have much to worry about, so did their parents. "The things on the Internet are good enough to believe their lives?"
就是想让父母稍微警觉一些，起码口罩要跟着戴起来。
Just want to alert parents a little bit, at least the mask to wear up.
”收效微乎其微，家中亲友包括父母还是不带口罩，表弟说他们是“无知者无畏”，程姐深以为然。
The results were minimal, with relatives and friends, including parents, still wearing masks. Her cousin said they were "fearless and ignorant," Cheng said.
到家里的第二天，程姐的感冒有所加重，咳嗽越发厉害，去镇医院买药，医生对她很是警惕，量体温时一直问她从哪里来，有没有经过武汉，因为什么生病？程姐应付了几句。
On her second day at home, Cheng had a bad cold and coughed harder and went to the town hospital to buy some medicine. The doctor was very alert to her.
医生只开了两副处方药，说“吃完了再来取，政府下了规定，这段时间我们不会关门的”。
The doctor prescribed only two doses of prescription drugs, saying, "Come and get it when you're done. The government has decreed that we won't close the door during this time."
好在药效不错，程姐很快就好转了。
Fortunately, the medicine is good, Cheng sister quickly improved.
大年初三，程姐一家按原定计划返程，路途中的光景就已和来时大不相同：火车站增加了测量体温的关卡，甚至程姐在车上睡觉时都被列车员叫醒测了体温。
On the third day of the Lunar New Year, Cheng's family returned as planned, and the journey was very different: the railway station had added a temperature check, and even Cheng was woken up by the conductor while she was sleeping.
程姐暗自庆幸自己在老家买了药，否则即便没有发烧，那么严重的感冒恐怕也会被拦下来。
Cheng congratulated herself on buying the medicine in her hometown, otherwise the severe cold might have been stopped even if she did not have a fever.
当小区门口测量体温和设卡的人员映入眼帘的时候，程姐才知道：这场几天之前还看似离自己很远的战争，终究没办法再置身事外了。
When the cell door temperature and the people set up to see the moment, Cheng Jie: a few days ago seemed to be far away from their war, after all, there is no way out of the matter.
按照原本的计划，第二天程姐就该回超市上班了。
According to the original plan, the next day Cheng should go back to the supermarket to work.
不过，她刚到家，就接到了课长的通知：上班时间待定，先在家隔离几天观察。
However, as soon as she got home, she received a notice from the head teacher that work hours were to be determined and observed at home for a few days.
课长害怕程姐多想，紧跟着又解释道：“这不是针对你一个人，大家都是这样，毕竟是特殊时期。
"The head teacher was afraid of Cheng's thinking, then explained," This is not against you, everyone is like this, after all, it is a special time.
”课长害怕程姐多想不是没有理由的：收银员除了底薪之外，薪资的另外近半部分来自工时，每个礼拜超出40个小时以外的时间都算加班，多劳多得。
The head teacher was afraid that Cheng thought it was not unreasonable: in addition to the base salary, the cashier received nearly half of her salary from working hours, and worked more than 40 hours a week.
于是为了方便统筹安排，收银课设立了近10种不同时间段的班次。
So in order to facilitate the overall arrangement, the Cashier set up nearly 10 different times of the shift.
有的很长，从早上8点到晚上8点，长达12个小时，被同事们称为“魔鬼班次”；有的很短，早上9点过来，中午12点就可以回去了。
Some are long, lasting 12 hours, from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m., and are called "devil's shifts" by colleagues; some are short, come around 9 a.m. and can be back by 12 noon.
每周通常有一到两天的休息，日子不固定。
There are usually one or two rest days per week, with irregular days.
如果碰上雨天人少，还可以提前下班。
You can also leave work early in case of a rainy day.
课长在安排每个人的班次时需要尽量一碗水端平，以免收银员之间的薪水差距过大。
The head teacher needs to arrange everyone's shift as evenly as possible to avoid a big pay gap between the cashiers.
现在课长让程姐晚几天上班，意味着这个月程姐的薪水会再次缩水。
Now the head teacher has asked Cheng to work a few days later, which means Cheng's salary will shrink again this month.
安全第一，程姐当然理解，“其实课长才是想多了，她是什么为人，我是最清楚的。
Safety first, Cheng of course understand, "in fact, the head teacher is to think more, she is what people, I know best.
”程姐记得自己刚到超市的时候，对这套乱七八糟的班次很不适应。
"Cheng remembered that when she first arrived at the supermarket, she wasn't used to the messy shift.
特别是第一个礼拜，尽管她已经在手机里拍了排班表的照片，可是依旧会忘了或者看错，不是来得太早就是来得太晚，有几次接到课长的电话都是懵的——“你为什么还不来上班？”“我今天不是9点的班吗？”“谁告诉你的，你好好看看这个礼拜的排班表，你今天8点钟就应该到了！”这样的情况一直到第二个月才有所好转。
In the first week in particular, although she had already taken a schedule photo on her cell phone, she still forgot or misread it, not too early or too late.On several occasions she was stunned by the caller's call.Why didnt you come to work todayWho told you that you should be here by 8: 00 this weekNot until the next month did she get better.
课长彼时30多岁，精明干练，往那一杵便自有一股不怒而威的气势。
At that time, the head teacher was in his 30s, shrewd and capable, and went to the pestle would have a not angry and powerful momentum.
程姐起初对她很怵，时间久了才发现她其实是个刀子嘴豆腐心的人。
Cheng felt terrible for her at first, but it took her a long time to discover that she was really a sharp-tongued brute.
程姐这才打开被屏蔽的工作群，花了半天时间粗略浏览一遍，才知道了在自己离开的这些天，超市发生的事情。
Cheng Jie then opened the shielded working group, spent half a day of cursory glance, only to know what happened in the supermarket in the days since he left.
1月25号大年初一，超市按原计划举行了抽奖活动，所有顾客购物满200元以后都可以凭小票参与。
On January 25, the supermarket held a lucky draw according to the original plan, all customers can buy 200 yuan after the participation of small votes.
这个活动超市已经在年前预热了半个多月了，活动当天领导还在群里三令五申：“客人如果购物金额差得不多，要记得提醒，询问他们是否需要再买些东西凑单，以免引起客诉。
The supermarket had been warming up for more than half a month before the event, and the leader repeated his orders in the crowd on the day of the event: "If the price is not much different, be reminded to ask if they need to buy more stuff to avoid a customer complaint.
”然而，这个活动只进行了半天便被紧急叫停了。
However, after only half a day, the event was abruptly called off.
出人意料的是，客人们对超市的“出尔反尔”并没有纠缠，都表现得十分理解。
Surprisingly, the guests did not harass the supermarket's "backlash," all of which were well understood.
放在以往，这几乎是不可能的事情——程姐还记得前几年的中秋，超市做了一项打折活动：某品牌食用油凭会员卡享受7折优惠，每张会员卡限购2桶。
In the past, it was almost impossible - Cheng remembered the Mid-Autumn Festival a few years ago, the supermarket did a discount: a brand edible oil with a membership card to enjoy a discount of 7%, each membership card to buy 2 barrels.
一位客人兴冲冲地拖了满满两辆购物车，在程姐那里结账的时候才被告知限购的事情。
One of the guests cheerfully towed two shopping carts and was told the restriction only when Cheng checked out.
其实像这样大宗的货单，一般都会有导购帮忙解释清楚，或许当天人手不足，导购没来得及解释。
As a matter of fact, such a large bill of lading, there will generally be a guide to help explain clearly, perhaps that day understaffed, the guide did not have time to explain.
程姐建议顾客先把车推到一旁，向别的客人借好了会员卡以后再来结账。
Cheng advised customers to push the car to one side and borrow a membership card from other guests before checking out.
那人并不愿意，一直嚷嚷着要程姐自己想办法：“在楼上买的时候没人告诉我，要知道这么麻烦我才不费这么大的劲呢！反正我不管你想什么办法，今天一定要按优惠价给我结了！”程姐只能通知中控前来处理，中控第一时间联系了楼上的导购，但导购并没有及时赶来。
The man didn't want to, and kept yelling for Cheng to do something of her own: "Nobody told me when I bought it upstairs that I didn't have to take so much trouble! Anyway, I don't care what you think, I must give me a special price today!
课长见客人态度强硬，只能先让后面的客人去别的机台排队。
The head teacher, seeing that the guests were tough, had to wait in line at the other stations.
可中秋的人实在太多，每一个机台都需要排上十几分钟，很多顾客——特别是已经排到前面的——并不愿意，一直在吵闹不休。
But the Mid-Autumn Festival is so crowded that every platform has to wait for a few minutes, and many customers - especially those already in the front row - are reluctant to go on quarrelling.
七嘴八舌之中，买油的客人来了劲，嗓门儿也越来越大。
In the midst of all this talk, the oil-buyer became more and more vocal.
程姐第一次遇上这种事情，沉默地站在一旁，不知道怎么办才好。
Cheng elder sister first encountered this kind of thing, stood silently aside, did not know how to do just fine.
课长一边用对讲机催楼上的导购下来解释清楚，一边从中控本就不多的人手中拉出副课长，让她拿着纸笔赶紧去向其他客人借会员卡。
With walkie-talkie to hurry down the upstairs to explain clearly, while from the control of a small number of people pull out of the deputy head, let her quickly take paper and pens to other guests to borrow membership cards.
没想到买油的人见自己占了上风，态度愈发嚣张，突然一把拽下了程姐胸口的工牌，嘴里嚷道：“不处理好我就去柜台（客服）投诉你！”突如其来的“偷袭”吓到了程姐，倒是课长眼疾手快迅速把她拽到了自己身后，同时怒斥道：“干什么你！”买油男寸步不让，嘴里开始蹦出污言秽语，有些冲着超市，有些冲着课长和程姐。
I did not expect the purchase of oil to see that they had the upper hand, more arrogant attitude, suddenly pulled down Cheng's chest plate, shouted: "I do not deal with the sudden" I went to the counter (customer service) to complain! "
周围的顾客见状都噤了声，有些排队不久的都默默转去了别的机台结账。
Customers shuddered around, and some of the people who were standing in line silently turned to the other machines to settle their accounts.
被卡在中间的动弹不得，只能装模作样玩手机。
stuck in the middle of the moveable, can only pretend to play mobile phones.
剑拔弩张之际，程姐被副课长拉回了课室。
At the moment of tension Cheng was dragged back to the classroom by the deputy head teacher.
后面的情形她没有亲眼见到，只听说课长叫来了保安，总算没让事态恶化。
The latter situation she did not see, only to hear that the head teacher called security, but it did not make matters worse.
最后硬是凑了十几张会员卡给他结了账。
Finally, he simply scrounged a dozen membership cards to give him the account.
这样的事情在超市并不少见，几乎每隔几天就会发生。
Such a thing is not uncommon in supermarkets and happens almost every few days.
程姐记得去年国庆的时候还有客人为了一包促销纸巾在客服中心大吵，最后甚至惊动了警察。
Cheng remembered last year's National Day guests for a package of promotional paper towels in the customer service center, and finally even alarmed the police.
如今，这活动直接取消却无人深究，这不得不让程姐感慨——疫情当前，这些平时极难伺候的顾客也学会了包容和克制了。
Today, the event is canceled without much scrutiny, forcing Cheng to lament that the epidemic is now such that customers, who are often hard-pressed to serve, have learned to be tolerant and restrained.
在家休息了几天，2月2日，大年初九，程姐终于接到了课长的通知：“明天过来上班，很多人已经连着20多天没有休息，实在撑不住了。
At home for a few days, February 2, about 9, Cheng finally received a notice from the head teacher: "Come to work tomorrow, many people have not had a rest for more than 20 days, can not stand.
”超市其实一直有招寒假工的惯例，但这两年收银区增添了数台自助收银机，缓解了一部分人员压力，因此临时决定压缩人数，年前只招了不到5个寒假工。
Supermarkets have long had a habit of hiring workers for winter holidays, but the addition of several cash registers in the cash register over the past two years has eased some of the pressure on staff and led to a temporary decision to downsize to fewer than five workers a year ago.
在程姐回家之前，整个收银课只有30人不到，远不及往年的轮岗人数。
Before Cheng returned home, there were fewer than 30 cashier's classes, far less than the usual number of staff.
可自助收银机其实并没那么好用，付款方式有所限制，效率也并不算高，多数顾客都不愿意学习使用，能为收银员分担的压力实在有限。
Self-service cash registers are not always easy to use, payment methods are limited, efficiency is not high, most customers are reluctant to learn to use, and there is limited pressure on cashiers to share.
开年之后更是雪上加霜，那5名大学生都打电话说不来了，收银课也招不到新人，压力陡增。
Adding insult to injury, the five college students couldn't talk on the phone, and the pressure mounted as the cash register failed to recruit new students.
再加上几个和程姐一样请假回家探亲的，此时的收银课只有不到20人在苦苦支撑。
Coupled with a few Cheng sister and leave home family visits, at this time only less than 20 people are struggling to support the cashier.
课长再三向程姐确认了两个问题；“有没有发热或者其他不适？究竟有没有经过武汉？”程姐均回复没有，课长才发来了程姐未来一周的排班表。
The head teacher repeatedly confirmed two questions to Cheng; "Do you have any fever or other discomfort? Have you ever passed through Wuhan?" Cheng did not reply. Only then did the supervisor send Cheng a schedule for the coming week.
大年初十，程姐年后第一次上班。
Chenjie first went to work in ten years.
在员工通道量体温时正赶上饭点，与其相隔不远的员工餐厅已经开门，餐桌上粘满了泡沫板，分出了大大小小的隔间，带着红色帽子的导购们正在埋头吃饭。
It was time to take a temperature in the staff passageway, and the staff restaurant not far from it had opened, with foam all over the table, partitions of large and small compartments, and red-cap guides eating.
餐厅里没有人说话，只有餐具碰撞的轻微声响。
There was no one to talk in the dining room but the clatter of cutlery.
程姐看到他们的口罩都没有摘下来，紧绷绷地别在下巴上，堪堪露出嘴。
Cheng saw that none of their masks had been removed and were so taut on her chin that her mouth was barely visible.
一个人吃完准备起身，快速拉上口罩，冲旁边的同事点了点头便去水池旁冲洗碗筷了，整个过程没有任何交流。
A person is ready to eat up, quickly put on a mask, rushed to the colleagues next to a nod and went to the sink rinse chopsticks, the process did not have any communication.
程姐有些恍惚，过去这么多年，每到饭点餐厅都是人声鼎沸的，大家在上班时间被压抑着的说话冲动在这里得到释放，吃饭好像才是顺带着的事情而已。
Cheng Jie a little trance, in the past so many years, every meal restaurant is a roar, everyone is suppressed in the work time of the speech impulse to be released here, eating seems to be incidental.
经过二楼的员工通道，程姐横穿整个超市来到自己的课室。
After the staff passageway on the second floor, Cheng walked across the supermarket to her classroom.
每年春节，在二楼的主要入口，超市都会设立“年货街”，里面摆上各种散装糖果炒货，绵延数10米，一直顶到超市另一侧——这条“街”会持续近1个半月，一直到元宵节才会撤掉。
Every Spring Festival, at the main entrance to the second floor, supermarkets set up a "New Year's Eve street," which is filled with a variety of loose candies that stretch for up to 10 meters and end up on the other side of the supermarket - a street that lasts nearly a month and a half until the Lantern Festival.
可今年，这条“街”也没了，原本人流就相对较少的二楼更加冷清了。
But this year, this "street" also disappeared, the original flow of people on the relatively few second floor more deserted.
她不知道是什么时候撤走的，但想来也在情理之中，“外面真正的街道都没什么人了，这条街又怎么热闹得起来呢？”到岗后，中控除了给程姐发放了口罩之外，还给了她一双胶皮手套和一副护目镜。
She did not know when she had withdrawn, but it was reasonable to assume that "the real street outside is empty, how can this street become boisterous?" On arrival, Zhongzhong, in addition to giving Cheng a mask, also gave her a pair of rubber gloves and goggles.
程姐讶异之余这才注意到，正在机台收银的同事们都全副武装，护目镜口罩是标配。
Cheng was surprised when she noticed that her colleagues at the checkout desk were heavily armed and that goggle masks were the norm.
至于手套，也是超市专门为收银员准备的。
As for gloves, they are specially prepared for cashiers in supermarkets.
毕竟每天要和钱打交道，戴手套可以尽量减少直接接触。
After all, you have to deal with money every day. Wearing gloves minimizes direct contact.
只是这些东西一戴上，程姐和客人说礼貌用语时声音会小很多，她估计大多数人都听不清。
But once these things are on, Cheng and her guests speak politely in a much quieter way, which she assumes most people cannot hear clearly.
“这在以前，可是大忌！”程姐所在的超市全国连锁，各方各面都有标准，为了给顾客留下好印象，总部专门为收银员设计了一整套礼貌用语，要求每个人在接待顾客时都必须一字不错。
"This is in the past, but bogey!" Cheng sister's supermarket chain, all sides have a standard, in order to make a good impression on customers, the headquarters has designed a set of polite terms for cashiers, requiring everyone to be a good word when greeting customers.
其实客人很少在意，但超市对此却极为看重。
In fact, guests pay little attention, but the supermarket is very important to this.
总部每个月都会派专人下来暗访，这些人会化装成顾客来购买商品，一旦发现员工不规范的地方都会上报，各门店在月末拿到名单之后则要通报批评，同时还要罚款，情节严重的甚至要去人力资源部“学习改造”。
The head office sends someone down every month to make unannounced visits. They dress up as customers to buy goods, report irregularities when they find them, criticize them when they arrive at the end of the month, and impose fines on them.
因为礼貌用语，程姐在刚入职的时候还被课长“重点盯防”了一段时间。
Because of politeness language, Cheng elder sister was also taken into duty when the class leader "focused attention" for a period of time.
这一套礼貌用语其实不长，从头到尾不过50个字左右，却极为正式和书面。
This set of polite words is not long, from beginning to end only about 50 words, but very formal and written.
程姐本来就不善与人交流，这段话无论如何也说不出口。
Cheng Jie is not good with the flow of people, this paragraph can not be exported anyway.
即使勉强说出来，声音也小得像蚊子哼哼，旁人根本听不清。
Even when forced to speak, the voice was as small as a mosquito's hum, and no one could hear it.
这样当然是不过关的，课长好几次巡查机台时都会提醒她注意。
Of course, this is not clearance, the class president several times when the inspection of the machine will remind her.
可天性使然，克服起来远没有那么容易。
But nature had made it far from easy to overcome it.
无奈，课长在安排机台时会尽量安排不那么显眼的地方给程姐，让她趁着没人的时候自己练习。
However, the supervisor will try to arrange a less conspicuous place for Cheng to practice when no one is around.
这一招效果着实有限，程姐依旧说得磕磕巴巴。
This effect is really limited, Cheng Jie is still talking stuttering.
课长自己也不放心，没事儿的时候就过来关切程姐的进度——毕竟她也不知道总部的“神秘客人”什么时候来，来了又会去哪个机台——超市虽然没有“连坐”制度，但自己课室的人被抓到面子上总是挂不住的。
She had no idea when the "mysterious guests" from the head office would arrive and which airport they would go to. Although there was no "sit-in" system in the supermarket, the people in her classroom would never be able to hang on to their faces.
那段时间，程姐每天上班都胆战心惊，生怕自己会上了“神秘客人”的名单。
At that time, Cheng Jie went to work every day with fear that she would make a list of "mysterious guests."
有惊无险的是，程姐并没有被“抓住”，礼貌用语也说得越来越好，很快就不需要课长“重点盯防”了。
Surprisingly, Cheng was not "caught", polite words also said more and more good, soon do not need the director of the "focus."
然而在现如今这种特殊情况下，超市对这方面也放宽了，“现在礼貌用语也说得让人听不清楚了，带上手套之后找零也慢成了龟速，却再没有听到一声指责和抱怨。
But in today's special situation, supermarkets are more lenient in this respect. "Now politeness is too much to hear, and after wearing gloves it slows down to a tortoise, without a word of reproach or complaint.
从这个角度来讲，我还蛮喜欢现在这样的。
From this point of view, I quite like the way it is.
”当然，玩笑过之后还是令人心酸。
"After the joke, of course, it was sad.
回来复工后程姐才知道，在自己复工前夜，超市生鲜课的闫芳求助说，小区封闭，自己回不了家了。
When she returned to work, Cheng knew that on the eve of returning to work, Yan-fang, a freshman in a supermarket, said that the area was closed and she could not go home.
闫芳住的小区离超市不远，骑电动车仅有10分钟的路程。
Yan-fang's residential area is not far from the supermarket, only 10 minutes away by electric car.
过年之后，小区开始封闭，除进出需要通行证之外，对进出的时间也进行了严格的管控，每天早上6点之前和晚上10点之后都不允许任何人出入。
After the Lunar New Year, the neighbourhood began to be closed, and the timing of entry and exit was strictly controlled, with no one allowed in or out until 6 a.m. and after 10 p.m., except for access permits.
闫芳发消息时正被堵在小区门外，她拍了一张小区门口的照片发到群里：另外2名同样夜里下班的女住户缩着脖子坐在车上，望着门卫岗亭。
Yan-fang at the time of the news was blocked outside the cell door, she took a picture of the neighborhood door sent to the group: two other female residents who also work at night sit in the car with their necks tied and look at the guard booth.
岗亭里面站着2名保安，警惕中带着无奈，沉默地看着她们。
Gangting inside stood two security guards, alert with helplessness, silent looking at them.
小区的大小两道铁门都被死死关上，没有留下一点缝隙。
Two iron gates the size of the neighborhood were shut, leaving no cracks.
当时是晚上10:05，仅超过规定的封闭时间5分钟。
It was 10: 05 p.m., only five minutes longer than the prescribed closing time.
闫芳说自己已经报了警，可警察来了也无济于事，一群人对峙在寒夜里，自己迫不得已才向领导求助。
Yan-fang said that they have reported to the police, but the police came to no avail, a group of people in the cold night, forced themselves to ask the leadership for help.
群里很快有人回复了“收到”，但自此没了下文，后续闫正芳如何回到家中的，程姐不得而知。
Soon someone in the group replied, "Received", but since then no follow-up, Yan Zhengfang how to return home, Cheng Jie is not known.
等到第二天，超市领导一边通知各课室收集早上班、晚下班人员的身份证和小区信息，希望能通过政府部门通知这些小区放行；一边将此事反映到了当地工商部门，很快得到了回应：“所有区内单位人员可凭借《出入证》和《单位证明》自由出入小区。
By the next day, supermarkets were advising classrooms to collect ID cards and cell information for early and late-night workers in the hope of notifying the communities through government departments, while reflecting the matter on the local business community, which quickly received a response: "All district staff will have free access to the district through the Pass and Unit Certificate."
前者在自己居住的小区办理；后者则由单位人资部门开具。
The former is handled in their own residential district; the latter is issued by the human resources department of the unit.
”起初这两张证明的确起到了不少效果，至少群里没人再反映了。
"At first the two certificates worked, and no one in the group at least reflected them.
但证明仅对本市小区适用，等到2月8号晚上8:30，服饰课的邓敏芝反映，自己被人拦在了路上。
But the certificate is only applicable to small areas of the city, until 8: 30 p.m. February 8, clothing class Deng Minzhi reported that they were stopped on the road.
邓敏芝住在邻城，每天上下班都要骑车1个多小时通勤。
Ms. Deng lives in a neighboring city and commutes for more than an hour every day to and from work.
当天晚上她照常和两位同样住在隔壁城市的同事一起下班回家，却在两城交界处被检查站的人拦了下来，说什么也不予放行。
She returned home from work the same evening with two colleagues who also lived in the next city, only to be stopped at the intersection of the two cities by the checkpoint and told not to release anything.
而在这之前的几天，这里还只需要出示身份证登记一下就可以通过。
A few days before that, all it would take was an ID card to register and pass.
大家身上都带着通行证和出入证明，可检查站的人根本不认。
All were carrying passes and access certificates, which the people at the checkpoint did not recognize at all.
邓敏芝苦苦哀求：“我真的住在城里，明天我不出来了行不行？”得到的回复依然是不行。
"I really live in the city, tomorrow I will not come out of it?" The response is still no.
邓在路边急得差点哭出来：“他们6点钟才正常放行，我不能在这站一晚上吧！”群里人纷纷给她们出主意，有人让她走小路，邓敏芝连忙问小路在哪儿，出招的人却没了动静，反倒另外一个人跳出来说道：“没用的，小路早就封死了。
The crowd advised them to take the path, and she was told to take the path, but the other man jumped out and said, "It's no use, it's dead.
”还有人让邓敏芝掉头回来，自己家里可以借给她暂住一晚。
She was also told to turn around and lend her a stay at home for a night.
有更多人随之附和，甚至有人表示这段时间在自己家里长住都不是问题。
Many more joined in, even saying it was not a problem to stay in their homes for long periods of time.
邓敏芝婉拒：“不知道这事儿要闹多久，总不能一直住在你那里吧？”七嘴八舌讨论到最后，邓敏芝几人还是只能向超市领导求助。
"I don't know how long this is going to happen, but I can't stay with you all the time.After much discussion, Deng Minzhi finally turned to the supermarket leadership for help.
求助信息很快惊动了店长。
The message of help soon alarmed the store manager.
店长一边联系了3人的课长，让他们先了解情况，安抚3名员工；一边打电话找到了本地工商局和邻市门店的店长，让他们和邻市相关单位协调看能不能将人放行。
The head of the store contacted the heads of three people to find out what had happened and to reassure the three employees. He telephoned the head of the local Chamber of Commerce and Industry and a nearby store and asked them to coordinate with the local authorities to see if they could release the person.
协调的结果并不理想，检查站的人油盐不进，只放有本地户口的居民进城，否则谁来说都没用。
The results of the coordination have not been satisfactory, and people at checkpoints do not have access to oil and only residents with local accounts enter the city, otherwise it would be useless for anyone.
而邓敏芝3人在邻市只是暂住，户口在外地，都不符合条件。
Deng Minzhi 3 people in neighbouring cities only temporary residence, accounts in the field, are not eligible.
折腾了半个多小时没有结果，店长也没了主意，只能让课长们安排，先将3人送到本城的同事家中，明天再从长计议。
After more than half an hour without result, the manager had no choice but to ask the superintendents to arrange for the three men to be sent to their colleagues in the city for long-term consideration tomorrow.
课长联系了几名家里有车的同事，让他们开车去关卡接人。
The head teacher contacted several colleagues who had cars in their homes and asked them to drive to pick them up.
此事才算是勉强得以解决。
The matter was only marginally resolved.
2月4号，有人在网上发帖称，超市在其他地方的分店有员工瞒报自己的老公是从武汉回来的事实，让大家不要再去那家超市购物。
On February 4, someone posted an online post saying that staff in other branches of the supermarket had lied about the fact that their husband had returned from Wuhan and told everyone not to go shopping at that supermarket.
谣言发酵得很快，在帖子下方多人跟帖“感谢提醒”。
The rumor ferments quickly and many people follow the post "Thanks for reminding" below the post.
随后更多谣言甚嚣尘上，更有传言称当地在10号以后会有多家超市、菜场关门停业。
More rumors followed, and rumors spread that local supermarkets and vegetable farms would close after the 10th.
对于这种消息，超市不可能不重视，那段时间，超市领导们为了辟谣忙得团团转，除了在官网发布声明以外，也联系了各地的地方官媒账号帮忙澄清。
Supermarkets are unlikely to be oblivious to the news, when supermarket leaders rushed to deny rumors and contacted local media accounts to help clarify the situation, in addition to posting statements on official websites.
同时，超市在武汉的分店早在疫情开始之初就进行了多次物资援助，领导把相关照片发到了群里，让大家在朋友圈多多宣传。
At the same time, the supermarket in Wuhan branch stores in the beginning of the epidemic in the beginning of many material assistance, the leadership of the relevant photos sent to the group, so that more publicity in friends.
大家对这样的谣言都很愤怒，颇有些同仇敌忾的意思。
All were angry at the rumors and shared a common hatred of the enemy.
程姐也觉得很糟心，对她来说，自己只是做着本职工作而已，固然谈不上伟大。
Cheng Jie also feel very bad, for her, she is just doing their job, of course, is not great.
但从大局来看，超市也是另一种意义上的前线，程姐实在不想看到有人无故诋毁。
But from the overall situation, the supermarket is another sense of the front line, Cheng really do not want to see people slander without cause.
“其实超市很多人都挺害怕，是硬着头皮站在这个岗位上的。
"In fact, a lot of people in the supermarket are quite scared, is to stand on the post bravely.
我不理解这些造谣的人是什么心态。
I don't understand the mentality of these disinformation people.
”让人欣慰的是，超市一直在正常营业，物资也没有短缺，谣言不攻自破。
The good news is that supermarkets have been operating normally, with no shortage of supplies, and rumours are breaching.
唯一的变化是，从2月10日开始，超市将营业时间从原来的8:00-22：00调整成了9:00-20:00，大家晚上只要事情做完，没有什么客人还可以提前下班——当然，这主要是对家电、服饰这些售卖非生活必需品的课室来说的，生鲜、蔬果这类区域白天依旧爆满，提前下班根本无从谈起。
The only change is that, starting on February 10, supermarkets have adjusted their opening hours from 8: 00 to 22: 00 to 9: 00-20: 00, so that no one can leave work early if things get done at night - mostly, of course, for non-essentials such as household appliances and clothing, which are still full during the day and leave work early.
这些天，超市的物资虽然不算紧缺，可为了尽量减少出门次数，前来购物的顾客大多会一次买上好几天的食材和日用品，结账的时候每个购物车都塞得满满当当，排队结账的队伍每天从早上排到傍晚。
These days, supermarket supplies aren't in short supply, but to minimise the number of trips, shoppers tend to buy ingredients and groceries for days at a time, each shopping cart being packed with groceries and queuing up from morning to evening.
程姐天天全副武装，扫码扫得天昏地暗，每次中控通知下班，对她而言都是极大的解脱。
Cheng Jie every day fully armed, sweep code dimly, every time the notice off work, for her is a great relief.
等回到课室摘掉口罩和护目镜，脸上的汗水早就把口罩全浸湿了。
By the time I got back to the classroom and removed my mask and goggles, the sweat on my face had soaked my mask.
即便如此，也是绝对不能掉以轻心的，课长还会每天在群里三番五次提醒，“要跟戴有呼吸阀口罩的客人保持距离”。
Even so, it must not be taken lightly. The head teacher will remind the group repeatedly every day to "keep a distance from the person wearing the respirator."
超市很快又在原本三件套的基础上又给员工配备了雨衣和面罩，面罩是用夏天的遮阳帽改良的。
Supermarkets quickly equipped their employees with raincoats and face masks based on the original three-piece set, improved by summer visors.
但仍旧有人不太放心，比如入职半年左右的小高，在没发雨衣之前，就在超市发的口罩里面又加了3层一次性的医用口罩，戴上护目镜以后整个脑袋活脱像个圆粽子。
However, some people are still not convinced, such as about half a year on the job, in the absence of raincoat, in the super-market to add three layers of disposable medical masks, goggles after the whole head off like a round dumplings.
“害怕也是正常的。
"Fear is normal, too.
”程姐记得前几天自己打扫卫生时轻轻咳嗽了两声，旁边的人触电似的抽开了身子，反应过来以后表情尴尬，但眼神里还是透着小心和戒备。
"Cheng remembered the other day when she gently coughed as she cleaned the house. People beside her snapped and responded with an electric shock.
那一刻，程姐又怀念起疫情之前，超市的每个清晨——早上8点，工作人员拉起卷帘门，开始一天的营业。
At that moment, Cheng missed the outbreak of the disease, supermarket every morning - 8 a.m., the staff pulled up the curtain door, began a day of business.
每当大门拉开，早已等在门外的大爷大妈便冲了进来，健步如飞，蜂拥着涌向卖鸡蛋的区域。
When the door opened, the great-great-aunt, who had been waiting outside, rushed in, swarming into the egg-selling area.
清晨超市有限量的打折鸡蛋出售早已不是什么秘密，因此，大爷大妈们在超市营业之前就会在门外“蹲守”，以便能多排几次队，从而抢到更多的鸡蛋，这是每个早上超市里都会出现的景象。
It's no secret that supermarkets have a limited number of discounted eggs for sale in the early morning, so they'll squat outside the doors before they open so they can queue up a few times to grab more eggs, as happens every morning at the supermarket.
过去，每次上早班看见这样的情景，程姐都会不自觉地露出微笑。
In the past, every time I saw such a scene in the morning shift, Cheng smiled unconsciously.
有时，她甚至会想到自己的晚年，想自己人到暮年后，如果也能保持这样的劲头，那未尝不是一种幸福。
Sometimes she even thought of her old age, and thought that it would be a blessing if she could maintain it into her old age.
毕竟对大多数人来说，为柴米油盐操心才是最有生活气息的事情。
After all, for most people, worrying about firewood is the most life-giving thing.
只是在今年复工之后，她再也没有见到过这样的场景。
It was only after returning to work this year that she never saw such a scene again.
这些日子，要说抢手的仍旧还是疫情相关的消毒、防护用品。
These days, it is still the epidemic-related disinfection and protective equipment that is in demand.
超市一直有可清洗的棉口罩出售，这种口罩虽然对病毒基本没有防范效果，但还是一度被抢购一空。
Supermarkets have been selling washable cotton masks, which were once snapped up even though they had little protection against the virus.
很多人为求个心理安慰，都会在医用的口罩外面再套一层棉口罩。
For psychological relief, many people wear cotton masks on the outside of their medical masks.
除了口罩，洗手液和消毒水的销量也有了明显上涨，大多数来购物的顾客都会顺手带上几瓶。
Sales of hand sanitizers, hand sanitizers and disinfectant have also risen sharply, with most shoppers dropping in with a few bottles.
2月16号，超市开始对洗手液进行限购，每张会员卡最多只能购买三瓶。
February 16, the supermarket began to limit the purchase of hand sanitizer, each membership card can only buy a maximum of three bottles.
收银课还特意在群里发了通知：内部员工购买一律不许结账，“其实这完全是多此一举，我们自己根本连购物的时间都没有。
The cashier also made a point of announcing in the group that internal staff are not allowed to pay for their purchases.
”后记开工以来，程姐就休息了小半天，收银课的压力依旧很大，营业时间调整之后，还发生过好几次过了晚上8点关门时间、客人还没走完的情况，收银课只能保留两三个通道，帮他们结完账再下班。
"Since the post-commencement, Cheng has rested for half a day, the pressure on cash collection classes is still very high, after the adjustment of business hours, there have been several times after the 8 p.m. closing time, guests have not finished the situation, the cash collection class can only retain two or three channels, to help them pay the bill before leaving work.
前两天小区某住户家里有亲人去世，搁在以往，大家都会摆3天的酒席，伴着哀乐声送走故去之人。
Two days ago a family in a residential home, put in the past, we will set a three-day banquet, accompanied by the sound of mourning away the deceased.
如今碍于疫情，白事只能从简。
Now, due to the epidemic, white matter can only be reduced.
那天程姐下班，看见他们在小区树下点了火堆，几个穿孝服的人正对着火堆低声抽噎。
Chenjie left work that day and saw them lighting a fire under the tree. Several men in filial clothes were sniffling low against the fire.
哀乐是提前用手机录好的，播放时音量被调到了最大，尖厉的唢呐声一波接一波刺在人心上，在冷凄的寒夜里更加令人寸断肝肠。
Mourning is recorded in advance with the mobile phone, the volume was adjusted to the biggest, sharp suona sound wave after wave thorn in the heart, in the cold cold night even more heartbreaking.
身处此情此景，程姐越发想念每天早上开门时，第一眼见到的是对鸡蛋“虎视眈眈”的大爷大妈的日子了。
In this situation, Cheng miss opening the door every morning, the first time to see the "covetous eyes" of the big grandpa's day.
编辑| 唐糖点击联系人间编辑西 方 无 海文字爱好者，希望能靠笔吃饭的家伙本文系网易新闻人间工作室独家约稿，并享有独家版权。
This article is an exclusive contract with Netease News Studio and enjoys exclusive rights. & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & #
如需转载请在后台回复【转载】。
If you need to reproduce, please reply in the background.
投稿给“人间-非虚构”写作平台，可致信：thelivings@vip.163.com，稿件一经刊用，将根据文章质量，提供千字500元-1000元的稿酬。
Written on a "human-non-fiction" writing platform, you can write to themings @ vip.163.com, which, once printed, will pay you between $500 and $1,000, depending on the quality of the article.
投稿文章需保证内容及全部内容信息（包括但不限于人物关系、事件经过、细节发展等所有元素）的真实性，保证作品不存在任何虚构内容。
The article should guarantee the authenticity of the content and information (including, but not limited to, all elements of relationships, events, details, etc.), and ensure that there is no fictional content in the work.
其它合作、建议、故事线索，欢迎于微信后台（或邮件）联系我们。
Other cooperation, suggestions, story clues, welcome to micro-mail backstage (or email) contact us.
回复「西方无海」，阅读作者文章合集点击以下「关键词」，查看往期内容：群聊魔鬼|月嫂回忆录|家暴|健身房的坑|生子丸考公|萌宠博主|82年的金智英|女大学生的毒虫男友大牛失业|卧底狱警|娶妻改命|中年男人的窝囊死亡职校老师|产科记事|改嫁|寻业中国|三大队|股市梦碎扶弟魔|末路狂花|下乡扶贫|外卖小哥|杀死我的女神吃不上药的人|黑在日本|再见警长丨穷人不配当公务员离休干部病房|控制狂父母|无征兆灭门案丨提款机女婿东北相亲|我放弃了科研|网红女同学|与巨婴离婚的女人。
RETURN TO THE WESTERN FREEDOMS AT THE COURSE AT JAPANESE & # 144; Farewell to the Police; Memoirs of Sister-in-law; Memoirs of a Sisters-in-Law; Memoirs of a Sisters-in-Law; Mentality of a Gym
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
收银7年，我第一次看到超市成了战场丨人间。
Seven years later, I first saw a supermarket become a battleground.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "文学";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "人间theLivings";。
var nickname = & quot; at least & quot; at least & quot;
var msg_title = "收银7年，我第一次看到超市成了战场丨人间";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "从某种意义来看，超市也是另一种意义上的前线。
var msg _ desc = & quot; in a sense, supermarkets are also a front in another sense.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '找到人间编辑的若干种方法',。
AT & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '群聊里的魔鬼，抓走了三个女童丨人间',。
The devil in the group conversation took three girls into service.
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '钱宝网已死，朋友说有事烧纸 | 人间',。
At the time of its death a friend says it has AT least & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '职场里的中年人：技术大牛失业了丨人间 · 寻业中国',。
Middle-aged at work: Technology Daniel is unemployed. China & amp; apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & #
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '我教的，全是上不了高中的职校生丨人间·寻业中国',。
What I taught was nothing but a vocational college student who couldn't attend high school.
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '请转告局长，三大队任务完成了丨人间',。
Please tell the director that the triad completed its service to & quot; & quot; & apos;.
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '爸，去工作吧，别再等牛市了丨人间',。
A: Dad, go to work. Don't wait for a bull market.
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '这一年下乡扶贫，我算是长见识了丨人间·再见8',。
I saw it for a long time when I went to the countryside to fight poverty.
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '吃不上药的人丨人间',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '一场毫无征兆的灭门之祸丨人间',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
var title ="人间theLivings";。
var title = & quot; at least & quot; at least & quot;
