地球青年丨没学上的中国留学生：被迫休学、中转第三国隔离入境。
Chinese students studying in the Earth's youth, forced to suspend school or transit to a third country for isolation.
地球青年丨没学上的中国留学生：被迫休学、中转第三国隔离入境。
Chinese students studying in the Earth's youth, forced to suspend school or transit to a third country for isolation.
在人间living                      。
Living on earth.
在人间living。
Living on earth.
用冷静的叙述抵抗冰冷 | 凤凰网在人间工作室出品。
Resist cold & # # 124; & # 45; Order of the Phoenix with a sober narrative.
The following article comes from 地球青年图鉴。
A guide to the youth of the planet.
Author 地青。
Authorization Green.
地球青年图鉴。
Youth of the Earth.
年轻的另一种可能。
Another possibility of being young.
在持续蔓延的新冠肺炎疫情之下，中国留学生们的求学路相比往常，困难重重。
With the new crown pneumonia spreading, Chinese students are struggling to find their way to school.
有人为了按时返校，正在尝试辗转第三国避开入境禁令，也有人只好被迫休学。
To get back to school on time, attempts are being made to bypass third countries to circumvent the ban on entry, and some are forced to suspend school.
与之而来的，还有高昂学费的压力，房租的损失，延期毕业的风险……△ 王小门和爸妈在郑州机场2月7日早晨，河南驻马店起了大雾，高速封路到中午才开放。
With it comes the pressure of tuition fees, loss of rent, and the risk of postponed graduationWang Xiaoming and his parents spent the morning of February 7 at Zhengzhou Airport.
等到晚上，天气预报提醒，明天还有出现大雾的可能。
By evening, the weather forecast warned that there was still the possibility of fog tomorrow.
怕耽误第二天的飞机，王小门的爸妈临时决定今晚就送他出发去郑州机场。
Afraid of delaying the plane the next day, Wang Xiaoming's parents tentatively decided to take him to Zhengzhou Airport tonight.
驻马店市位于河南南部，距离武汉约200公里，2月7日，王小门离开时，驻马店市累计确诊病例113例。
Located in south-east Henan, about 200 kilometers away from Wuhan, February 7, Wang Xiaoming left the city with a cumulative total of 113 confirmed cases.
除了市区，乡镇都已封闭道路，这一次离家是他二月来第一次出门。
With the exception of the city, the townships were closed, and this time he was away for the first time in February.
家门口那家火爆的鱼火锅店没有像往年一样排起长队，大门紧闭，街道上也只有零星路人。
The hot fish-pot restaurant in front of home was not lined up as it used to be, its doors were closed and there were only a few passers-by.
驱车在空巷，再转到高速上，直到离郑州机场最近的服务区，王小门数了数，遇见的车不超过20辆。
Driving in an empty lane, then on to the highway, until Zhengzhou Airport from the nearest service area, Wang Xiaoming counted, encountered no more than 20 cars.
往日拥挤嘈杂的服务区，在这个普通的夜晚空荡安静。
What used to be a crowded and noisy service area is empty and quiet on a normal night.
王小门和爸妈在服务区休息到了2月8日早上五点，手机上的道路提醒显示，驻马店的高速因大雾封路了。
Wang and his parents stayed in the service area until 5: 00 a.m. on Feb. 8. Road warnings on their mobile phones showed that the motorway at the store was blocked by fog.
爸妈为昨晚提前出发的决定长舒一口气，这些天来，把儿子送出去是家里的头等大事。
Mom and Dad heaved a sigh of relief over last night's decision to leave early. These days, getting my son out of the house is a top priority.
△ 王小门的学生证王小门是澳大利亚墨尔本大学的研究生新生，在去年12月份，他就买好了今年2月21日从上海浦东直飞墨尔本的机票。
Wang Xiaoming, a graduate student at the University of Melbourne, Australia, bought a direct flight to Melbourne from Pudong, Shanghai, on February 21 last year.
按照原计划，他会在21日抵达墨尔本，然后参加24日开始的迎新周活动。
He was scheduled to arrive in Melbourne on the 21st and then attend the New Year's Induction Week, which begins on the 24th.
不料，澳洲总理莫里斯在2月1日出台入境禁令，“从即日起，在中国大陆的非澳大利亚公民（永久居民除外），在离开或过境中国大陆的14天内，不得进入澳大利亚”。
Unexpectedly, Australian Prime Minister Maurice introduced an entry ban on February 1, "with immediate effect, non-Australian citizens (other than permanent residents) in mainland China will not be allowed to enter Australia for 14 days after leaving or transiting mainland China."
早前，澳媒宣传不会有类似政策，但在宣布旅行禁令后的第二天，王小门的航班就被取消了。
Earlier, the Australian media did not advocate a similar policy, but the day after the travel ban was announced, Wang's flight was canceled.
一切都很突然。
It was all sudden.
据澳洲教育部统计，因这一政策滞留国内的中国留学生超过10.67万人，留学生们只好选择自救。
According to the Australian Department of Education, more than 106,700 Chinese students remain in the country because of the policy, leaving them to fend for themselves.
王小门在微博看到，有着同样遭遇的澳大利亚留学生浣洱决定从泰国待14天再“曲线入澳”。
On Weibo, Wang saw a group of Australian students with the same experience. You decided to stay in Thailand for 14 days before returning to Australia.
秉承“在第三国待满14天就可中转回澳”的规定，签证成本较低的泰国成为留学生们的热门中转地。
Thailand, with its "14-day stay in a third country," has become a popular destination for international students with lower visa costs.
2月4日，浣洱顺利抵达曼谷，发微博解答大家的疑问并告知一切顺利。
On 4 February, with a smooth arrival in Bangkok, you will receive a microblog to answer your questions and tell you everything is going well.
有人留言呼吁拉个群，王小门就是这样进群了，他也做出了同样的决定。
Someone left a message calling for a group, Wang Xiaoming is so into the group, he made the same decision.
就像浣洱抵达曼谷时发的那条朋友圈，“犹豫就会败北”。
Like the circle of friends that you send when you arrive in Bangkok, "You will lose if you hesitate."
△泰国机场△王小门即将离开在泰国入住的酒店2月5日晚，王小门匆忙买好了2月8日从郑州中转上海飞曼谷的机票。
On the night of Feb. 5, Wang Xiaoming, a Thai airport, rushed to buy a flight ticket to Bangkok from Zhengzhou on February 8.
早在去年双十一他就买好了今年二月从上海飞泰国的机票，预备玩一趟，但因为疫情航班被取消了。
He bought a flight from Shanghai to Thailand in February last year, but the flight was canceled because of the outbreak.
原本往返2000元左右的机票，这次单程就花了1900元。
The original round trip of about 2000 yuan of air tickets, this one-way spent 1900 yuan.
登机时，地服人员通知，郑州机场已经全部取消廊桥登机，每架飞机都要在偏远地方经过消毒后，由摆渡车接送乘客登机。
At the time of boarding, the uniformed personnel informed that Zhengzhou airport has all cancelled the corridor bridge boarding, each aircraft in a remote area after disinfection, the ferry to pick up passengers to board.
2月8日晚十点，飞机落地曼谷机场。
The plane landed at Bangkok airport at 10 p.m. on February 8.
因为泰国落地签只有15天，所以王小门决定等过了零点再过关，“我们要尽量在第三国待久一点，才能最大程度满足澳洲14天的要求，因为我觉得澳洲海关数学一向不好”。
"We have to stay in a third country for as long as we can meet Australia's 14-day requirement because I don't think Australian Customs has ever been good at math," Wang said.
曼谷的机场工作人员态度友好，机场人潮如往常，其中的中国面孔遮挡在口罩后面，很好辨认——在曼谷机场戴着口罩的，大部分是中国游客。
Bangkok's airport staff are friendly, and airport traffic is as usual, with Chinese faces hidden behind masks and recognizable - mostly Chinese - at Bangkok's airport.
截至2月25日，泰国已经确诊37例，新闻和公共交通的播报里也放送着防护疫情的提示，这里和国内一样口罩脱销，但并不是人人出门都会戴好口罩。
As of February 25, 37 cases had been diagnosed in Thailand, and news and public transport announcements had included warnings about the epidemic. As in Thailand, masks are sold out, but not everyone goes out wearing them.
△王小门在泰国隔离期间的酒店早餐泰国的口罩供应紧缺是王小门没有料到的，幸好和澳洲的室友碰上了面，室友准备充足，他们俩分了分口罩，刚好够戴到入境澳大利亚。
A shortage of Thai masks was unexpected by Wang Xiaoming. Fortunately, he met his Australian roommate, who was well prepared. They shared a mask and were able to wear it to Australia.
这是王小门第二次来泰国，上次是自在的旅游，这次大部分时间都在酒店隔离，“每天的盼头只有早餐”。
This is Wang Xiaoming's second visit to Thailand, the last time was a free trip, most of the time in the hotel isolation, "every day only hope for breakfast."
有网友调侃莫里森是泰国旅游大使，“因为中国疫情的影响，给全世界的旅游业带来了沉重打击。
Morrison is Thailand's tourism ambassador, "because of the impact of the Chinese epidemic, the world's tourism industry has been a serious blow.
不过最近不少留学生选择赴泰，给濒危的泰国旅游业带来一定程度的复苏”。
But recently many students have chosen to go to Thailand to bring some degree of recovery to the endangered Thai tourism industry.
第一次赴泰时，曼谷一家大型免税店的免费餐券让王小门心心念念，每一个自由行的中国游客都会被赠300泰铢美食券，并且报销往返打车费。
On his first trip to Thailand, Wang was impressed by the free coupon at a large duty-free shop in Bangkok, where every free Chinese visitor was given a 300 baht voucher and reimbursed for the shuttle bus fare.
这一次也不例外，拿着赠送的餐券，王小门再次来到免税店，这是他为数不多离开酒店的活动。
This time around, Wang came to the duty-free shop again with a complimentary meal ticket. It was one of the few occasions he left the hotel.
不过这一次，他没有再购物。
This time, however, he did not shop again.
王小门所在的泰国中转群里有将近400人，而这样的群不只一个。
Wang's Thai transit group is home to nearly 400 people, and more than one such group.
他推测，现在在泰国等待中转的中国留学生少说也有几千人。
He speculates that there are thousands, if not thousands, of Chinese students waiting for transit in Thailand.
刚刚到达的那几天，他和室友还想过去逛一趟周末集市，看到里面人挤人，只有大概一半的人戴着口罩，便赶紧出来了。
On the first few days of his arrival, he and his roommate also wanted to go to a weekend market. When they saw the crowd, only about half of them were wearing masks.
2月18日，曼谷市中心发生枪击案，他们更不敢离开酒店，基本在便利店解决晚饭。
On Feb. 18, in a shooting rampage in central Bangkok, they were even more afraid to leave the hotel and settle mostly for dinner at convenience stores.
△泰国街头“中国加油”的标语从第三国曲线入境澳洲的学生有很多，有一部分人像王小门一样宅在酒店等待十四天后被允许入境，也有一部分人将泰国之行当作一次度假四处游玩，但还有些人选择留在国内的家中张望等待。
2007-9-24 16: 48 Thai street "Come on China" The number of Australian students crossing the street from a third country is high, with some staying at the hotel like Wang Xiaoming for 14 days before being allowed to enter.
Eva就是选择等待的一员，她是澳大利亚莫纳什大学的二年级研究生。
Eva, a second-year graduate student at Monash University in Australia, is one of those who chose to wait.
她觉得现在全球的疫情形势并不乐观，便没有选择中转第三国入境，这段时间她一直在等澳大利亚海关禁令的结束，直到2月20日，澳洲宣布将旅行禁令再延长一周至2月29日。
She felt that the global situation was not encouraging and had not chosen to enter a third country. She had been waiting for the end of the Australian customs ban until 20 February, when Australia announced that it would be extended for another week, until 29 February.
如果澳洲的海关禁令顺利结束，她将按时回到墨尔本，自行隔离14天以后正常上课、正常毕业；但如果无法结束，则可能要过半年的间隔年，原本3月开学的学期要延迟到7月。
If Australia's customs ban is successfully completed, she will return to Melbourne on time to attend regular classes and graduate normally after 14 days of isolation, but if not, a six-year gap may be required and the term, which began in March, will be postponed until July.
△ 王小门拍下的墨尔本大学法学院大楼所有选择前往第三国中转的学生都承担着时间、精力、金钱打水漂的风险，因为禁令可能突然更改，第三国政策可能被取消，这也是Eva犹豫的原因。
All students who chose to transit to a third country in the University of Melbourne Law School building photographed by Wang risked losing time, energy and money because the ban could change suddenly and third-country policies could be lifted, which was why Eva hesitated.
留在国内的她需要克服时差远程参加在澳洲的实习，还要负担房租和网费。
She would have to overcome jet lag and attend an internship in Australia, paying rent and Internet bills.
她与学校沟通了自己的情况，最终学校给所有人发了邮件，延迟至3月16日开学。
She communicated with the school and eventually sent an e-mail to everyone, postponing the start of the school year on 16 March.
对于即将毕业的学生来说，这一场“曲线入澳”的成功更加重要。
The success of the curve entry into Australia is even more important for graduating students.
因为如期入学意味着如期毕业，不必浪费整整半年的时间，也不必担心耽误工作和签证过期。
Being in school on time means that you don't have to waste half a year to finish school, or worry about work delays and visa expiration.
所以，不少留学生们选择中转第三国赌一把。
Therefore, many students choose to transit third countries to gamble.
Lan和女友决定从杭州出发前往泰国，再中转入澳，因为担心无法正常毕业影响工作，也不好意思长时间麻烦熟人帮他照看猫咪。
Lan and her girlfriend decided to travel from Hangzhou to Thailand and back again to Australia, fearing the disruption of their jobs and the long hours they had trouble finding acquaintances to take care of the cats.
原本满怀期待从澳洲回来和老友相聚、参加朋友的婚礼，这些活动也都取消了，两个人便一起来到了泰国。
I was looking forward to coming back from Australia to meet my old friend and attend my friend's wedding. These activities were cancelled and the two came to Thailand together.
和很多犹豫着想趁这次假期多陪陪父母的留学生不同，Lan的妈妈在卫健委工作，这个对旁人来说最长的假期，却是他和妈妈相处时间最短的寒假。
Unlike many other students who hesitated to take advantage of the holiday to spend more time with their parents, Lan's mother worked on the health committee, the longest vacation for anyone else, but the shortest winter vacation he had with his mother.
澳洲入境情况如何，对于大多数在第三国中转停留的学生来说是个未知数。
Australia's immigration status, for most students in transit in a third country is unknown.
虽然留学生们大多理解澳洲政府为了保障本国民众安全，但是一切来得太突然了。
Most students understand that the Australian government is trying to keep its people safe, but it's all too sudden.
目前对于第三国入境方案，澳洲政府、教育部和海关一直未达成统一意见，让许多留学生都不知所措。
At present, the Australian Government, the Ministry of Education and Customs have not reached a consensus on the third country entry programme, which has left many international students at a loss.
△ 王小门在墨尔本大学的宿舍窗台景色王小门庆幸自己遇到了好房东，在得知他因为疫情无法按合同日期开始居住后，房东承诺等他入住后再算房费。
Wang Xiaoming celebrated his encounter with a good landlord who promised not to charge for his house until he was admitted to Melbourne after learning that he was unable to start living on the contract date due to the outbreak of disease.
他也有听闻，当地居民因为病毒而产生对于亚洲面孔的歧视，虽然忐忑，但还是希望能够顺利开始全新的研究生旅程。
He also heard that the local population because of the virus discrimination against Asian faces, although perturbed, but still hope to smoothly start a new graduate journey.
2月19日，浣洱在泰国中转群里艾特所有人，“群主今天冲了”，之后顺利到达墨尔本。
On 19 February, in the Transit Group of Thailand, with the owner of Ait, "The group rushed today," it successfully arrived in Melbourne.
出机场时，她觉得这是五年来最爱墨尔本的一天。
As she left the airport, she thought it was her favorite day in five years.
王小门和室友看到消息就像吃下了一颗定心丸。
Wang and his roommate read the news as if they had eaten a pill.
六天后，他和室友也顺利抵达墨尔本。
Six days later, he and his roommate arrived in Melbourne.
而在另一个留学生返校防疫互助群里，想要中转赴美的学生们在咨询组团。
In another group of students returning to school, students who want to transfer to the United States in advisory groups.
一位持有加拿大签证的同学想要借道加拿大。
A student with a Canadian visa wants to borrow Canada.
虽然加拿大没有严格限制入境的禁令，但美国自美东时间2月2日下午5时起，就禁止过去14天内访问过中国的外国人入境。
Although Canada has no strict entry restrictions, the United States has banned foreigners who have visited China in the past 14 days from 5 p.m. EST on February 2.
他叹道，“国内情况虽然好转，美国禁入令还是遥遥无期。
"Although things are improving at home, the U. S. ban is far from over," he lamented.
”1月23日，韩国人在青瓦台主页发起请愿，请求政府禁止中国人入境。
On January 23, South Koreans launched a petition on the Qingwadai home page asking the government to ban Chinese from entering the country.
请愿的截止时间为2月22日，如果人数达到20万，韩国总统就必须回应。
The deadline for petitions is February 22, and if the number reaches 200,000, South Korea's president will have to respond.
2月2日，大韩民国官方推特发布了有关中国入境韩国的相关政策，其中有提到，“2月4日0点起，14天之内滞留或访问过中国湖北省的外国人，禁止入境韩国”。
On February 2, the official Twitter feed of the Republic of Korea published a policy on China's entry into South Korea, which states that "foreigners who have stayed or visited China's Hubei Province for 14 days from 0 p.m. on February 4 are prohibited from entering the Republic of Korea."
△启明大学国际处给留学生下发的文件截图在疫情高峰期间，韩国启明大学的大三学生林慧（化名）收到学校邮件，要求留学生必须在2月21至24日内到达韩国隔离时间14天，并建议由于疫情原因无法按时到学校的学生直接休学。
During the peak of the outbreak, Lin Hui (not her real name), a junior at Qiming University, received a school email asking students to arrive in South Korea for 14 days from February 21 to 24.
林慧的家乡位于凉山彝族自治州西昌市，按照原计划，她会从成都出发到韩国，现在大巴、火车停运，飞机是她唯一的选择。
Located in Xichang, Liangshan Yi Autonomous Prefecture, Lin Hui planned to travel from Chengdu to South Korea, where buses and trains are now out of service and planes are her only option.
“先从西昌飞西安，在西安候机至少六小时再飞青岛，转机到首尔，然后坐至少五小时的大巴到大邱市，中间得住两晚酒店。
"Fly from Xichang to Xichang, wait in Xi'an for at least six hours before flying to Qingdao, transfer to Seoul, and then take a bus for at least five hours to Daegu City.
“因为多次转机，感染风险增大，林慧和校方反映了问题，至今都未得到回答。
"The risk of infection increased because of multiple connections, and Lin Hui and the school responded, but so far they have not received an answer.
启明大学延迟至3月16日开学，算上隔离的14天，校方要求留学生2月24日前必须达到韩国，这让林慧感到困惑。
She was puzzled by the delay in starting classes at the university on March 16, after 14 days of isolation and a requirement that students reach South Korea by February 24.
“学校直接让无法达校的人休学，没有想过用网课等方式为学生提供学习的帮助，保护留学生的合法权益。
"Schools directly suspend people who cannot reach their schools and do not think about using online classes to help students learn and protect the legitimate rights and interests of international students.
”虽然学校为留学生提供了一人一室一厕的隔离宿舍，但在接收到通知后，林慧开始纠结是否要休学。
"Although the school offered students a one-person, one-room, one-room dormitory, Lin Hui began to wrestle with the idea of suspending her studies after receiving the notice.
父母担心她在路途中感染，启明大学附近也出现了疑似的病例。
Her parents worried about her infection on the road, and a suspected case appeared near Qiming University.
2月18号，林慧在摇摆不定后最终决定休学，接下来长达半年的休学改如何度过？她一下子迷茫了。
On Feb. 18, after vacillating, Lin Hui finally decided to suspend her studies for six months.
两天后，大邱发生新冠肺炎超级传播事件，导致1001人被隔离，林慧在家里盯着手机屏幕看报道，韩国疫情的爆发让她感到害怕，同时她也庆幸自己所做的决定，截止2月25日，启明大学准备休学的中国留学生已增至约300名。
Two days later, Daegu was disconnected from 1,001 people by the Super Bowl Pneumonia outbreak, and Lin Hui was frightened by the outbreak as she stared at her cell phone screen. She was also grateful for her decision to increase the number of Chinese students preparing to leave school to about 300 by February 25.
△ 国立釜庆大学学生群截图1月下旬，位于釜山市的国立釜庆大学发送邮件调查了中国留学生的情况，并在2月3日发邮件告知给学生准备了隔离宿舍，当天有留学生被要求搬去隔离宿舍入住。
2007-9-25 21: 48 Kikkai University in Busan sent an e-mail late in January to investigate the situation of Chinese students. On February 3, students were asked to move to separate dormitories.
身在北京的该校大四学生小洛（化名）在群里看到了宿舍环境相关的图片和视频，每个人都有独立的房间，但6至12人得共用卫生间及浴室，这样具有感染可能性的隔离环境引起了大家的不满，不过小洛心情没有受影响，她相信学校会给出合理的解决方案。
Xiao Lo, a senior at the university in Beijing, saw pictures and videos of the dormitory environment in the group. Everyone had separate rooms, but 6 to 12 people had to share bathrooms and bathrooms.
△ 国立釜庆大学隔离宿舍大楼内放置的标语通知发布后，学校的学生会和国际交流部的老师开始联系中国驻釜山领事馆，领事馆介入与学校商谈。
After the announcement of the slogan placed in the isolated dormitory building of Kukkai University, the university's student union and international exchange teachers began contacting the Chinese Consulate in Busan, which intervened to discuss with the school.
2月5日，韩国教育部开会，要求各大学尽量延期开学，同时要求中国留学生进行自我隔离。
On February 5, South Korea's education ministry called on universities to postpone classes as long as possible, while requiring Chinese students to segregate themselves.
首尔地区的大学，大多都无法提供额外的隔离宿舍，所以让留学生在酒店等地进行自我隔离。
Most universities in Seoul are unable to provide additional segregated hostels, so students are left to fend off themselves in hotels and other places.
“而我们学校的宿舍太多了，于是发生了这件事”，小洛说，“校方最开始的出发点是很好的，但没有考虑到隔离条件”。
"There were so many dormitories in our school, so it happened," said Xiao Lo. "The school started from a good starting point, but did not take into account the isolation conditions."
经过领事馆的介入以及中国留学生会的帮助，2月11日，学校决定提供校内的世宗一馆作为隔离宿舍，一人一间、独立卫浴，房间里还有路由器、24小时的地暖空调，每天需要两次体温检测。
Thanks to the intervention of the consulate and the help of the Chinese Foreign Students Association, the school decided on February 11 to provide an isolated dormitory with a private bathroom, a router, a 24-hour floor heating air conditioner and two temperature tests a day.
△ 小洛来到空荡荡的首都机场△ 小洛目前独自隔离的宿舍2月14日，小洛从北京出发，中午抵达韩国，到了学校后，直接住进了隔离宿舍。
On Feb. 14, Xiao Lo started from Beijing, arrived in South Korea at noon and went straight to an isolated dormitory when he arrived at the school.
14天隔离的房间费用由学校支付，餐费需要学生自费，但有一定程度的补助。
The cost of the 14-day secluded room is covered by the school, and the meal is paid for by the students themselves, with a certain level of subsidy.
学校还联系了中国餐馆制作中餐，小洛对隔离宿舍很满意。
The school also contacted Chinese restaurants to make Chinese food, and Xiao Luo was pleased with the isolated dormitory.
为了腾出隔离宿舍，原本居住在内的韩国学生被迫搬到另外一栋宿舍，这样的举动令一些韩国本土学生不满。
South Korean students, including others, have been forced to move to another dormitory to make way for segregated dormitories, a move that has angered some native South Korean students.
根据韩联社报道，韩国总统文在寅23日下午宣布，决定将新冠肺炎传染病危机预警级别上调至最高的“严重”级别。
South Korean President Wen Jiabao announced Tuesday afternoon that he would raise the alert level of the New Crown Pneumonia infectious disease crisis to the highest "serious" level.
同日，韩国教育部宣布全国学校推迟1周开学，这是韩国首次在全国范围内推迟学校开学。
On the same day, South Korea's Ministry of Education announced a one-week delay in opening schools across the country, the first nationwide delay.
目前，韩国除了湖北籍以外的中国居民都可以入境。
At present, all residents of the Republic of Korea except Hubei can enter the country.
截止2月25日，韩国新冠确诊增至1146例。
By February 25, the number of cases diagnosed in South Korea had risen to 1,146.
小洛身边有已经在宿舍隔离的学生决定休学，马上回国。
Xiao Luo around the students who have been isolated in the dormitory decided to suspend school, immediately return to the country.
小洛觉得自己防护用品充足，可以继续留在学校隔离。
Xiao Lo felt he had enough protective equipment to remain in school segregation.
她的朋友中，还有人因为马上要大四毕业或不愿休学，继续从国内前往韩国。
Some of her friends continue to travel from home to South Korea because they are about to graduate from college or are unwilling to leave school.
△ 桃园机场的告示1月16号思宇从台湾大学回山东威海过年，走的前一天，台湾地区的朋友提醒他，最近大陆的肺炎比较严重，回家千万要小心。
Notice at Taoyuan Airport On January 16th, Si-woo returned to Weihai, Shandong Province from Taiwan University for the Spring Festival. The day before he left, friends in Taiwan reminded him that the mainland has had severe pneumonia recently.
在桃园机场，他看到告示牌上提醒往返武汉的旅客要做好自我保护。
At Taoyuan airport, he saw signs warning travelers traveling to and from Wuhan to protect themselves.
当时他了解到国内官方通报没有提到人传人，心态乐观，还拍下来告示牌发给父母，“你看台湾人多么小题大做”。
When he learned that the official announcement did not mention human-to-human transmission and was optimistic, he took a billboard and sent it to his parents, "You see how Taiwanese are making a fuss."
回来不久，疫情蔓延，相关的报道频繁出现，思宇赶紧囤积了一些口罩。
Not long after the outbreak spread, reports of it surfaced, and Siyu quickly hoarded some masks.
1月23日，威海出现了首例确诊，他发现市里已经买不到合格的口罩了，父母也开始担心疫情的发展，取消了过年期间的一切聚会和活动，想让他赶紧回台湾。
On January 23, the first case was confirmed in Weihai. He found that no qualified face mask was available in the city. His parents began to worry about the outbreak.
台湾的朋友和老师陆续给他打电话询问情况如何，是否需要帮忙采购物资。
Friends and teachers in Taiwan have been calling him to find out how things are and if they need help buying things.
那时，台湾已经限制湖北陆生入境，其他省份的陆生暂时不受影响。
By then, Taiwan had restricted land access to Hubei, leaving the rest of the provinces unaffected.
身在山东的思宇觉得不要紧，考虑到改签机票比较贵，就没有改签。
Is in Shandong's thought does not matter, takes into account that resigns the ticket to be more expensive, did not change the signature.
1月26日，台湾宣布因疫情严重，所有陆生暂缓入境。
On January 26, Taiwan declared a moratorium on land entry due to the severity of the outbreak.
思宇才发现，他回不去了。
Si-woo found out that he could not go back.
△ 台湾大学延期开学的通知△ 思宇的研究桌暂缓入境之后，台大将开学日期推迟到了3月2日，并做出协调方案。
After the university postponed its opening??? s research table, the university postponed its opening date to March 2 and made plans to co-ordinate it.
学校开始联系陆生，提出诸如学费减免，远程授课的解决措施。
Schools began to contact land students, offering solutions such as tuition waivers and distance learning.
思宇是工作两年之后才读的研究生，接下来这个学期的必修课，一年只开一次，他担心影响毕业进度。
Siyu, a graduate student after two years of work, will be required to attend classes only once a year for the rest of the semester, fearing that it will affect his graduation schedule.
在离开台湾的前一天，他刚刚获得了学校的独立研究桌，有了自己的办公室，兴高采烈地把研究需要用到的物品都搬了过去。
The day before he left Taiwan, he had just won his independent research desk, had his own office, and cheerfully moved everything he needed for his research.
万万没想到，一次疫情袭来，不仅在短时间之内无法返回台湾读书，无法使用研究室，甚至还可能延迟毕业。
It never occurred to me that an epidemic would not only make it impossible for Taiwan to return to Taiwan for a short time to study, use a research lab, or even postpone graduation.
△ 米朵去年拍摄于回港的飞机上同样无法准时回到学校的，还有在香港教育大学读一年制硕士的米朵。
Mido was also unable to get back to school on his return flight last year, and Mido, a one-year master's degree from the Hong Kong University of Education.
原计划2月5日从宁波回香港，受疫情影响，3月中旬前米朵都没办法回学校了。
It was planned to return to Hong Kong from Ningbo on February 5, and Mido was unable to return to school until mid-March.
虽然她有香港居民身份，“想要回学校还是能回去的，但目前浙江省飞香港的航班几乎没有，自驾去上海又困难重重，更困难的是入港要强制14天居家隔离。
Although she is a Hong Kong resident, "she can still go back to school, but there are few flights to Hong Kong in Zhejiang Province.
我在香港本来就是鸟居了，14天不出门简直是酷刑”。
I was already a birdhouse in Hong Kong, and not going out for 14 days was torture.
现在米朵不仅要承担一笔不小的房租损失，还担心延课导致找工作受阻。
Not only does Mido now have to bear a large loss of rent, but it's also worried that delaying classes will get in the way.
去年因为香港示威者暴乱，米朵上了几次网课，这次因为疫情，原本面授的课程也可能会改为网课。
Mido took some online classes last year because of riots by Hong Kong demonstrators, and this time the course may have been taught online due to the outbreak.
△香港街景香港八大院校有学生主张“退学费保学历”，米朵曾和内地学生一起写邮件建议学校减免学费。
Hong Kong's Eight Colleges and Universities have students who advocate "tuition refunds." Mido has written with mainland students to suggest that schools waive tuition fees.
校方给出的方案是延后交学费的日期（原定2月14日，延后至3月31日），但并没有承诺减免学费。
The school gave a plan to delay paying school fees (originally scheduled for February 14 and extended to March 31), but did not commit to reducing or waiving school fees.
许多线下课推迟了半个月，即便恢复授课，也只是网课。
Many off-line classes were delayed by half a month, and even if classes resumed, they were only online.
除此之外，米朵还有一场入岗培训，她不知道自己能否准时参加。
On top of that, Mido had an induction course, and she didn't know if she could make it on time.
2月4日凌晨，香港政府实行关闭出入深圳各大口岸（除深圳湾和港珠澳大桥）的举措，米朵学校的群里有人解读香港入境政策，建议在深圳工作的港人和在香港工作的内地居民辞退工作。
In the early hours of February 4, the Hong Kong Government closed all major ports in Shenzhen (except Shenzhen Bay and the Hong Kong-Zhuhai-Macao Bridge). Some members of the school interpreted Hong Kong's immigration policy and suggested that Hong Kong residents working in Shenzhen and those working in Hong Kong be dismissed from their jobs.
米朵理解香港闭关口岸的举措，“因为香港人口密度非常非常大，老龄化程度又非常高，如果疫情在香港爆发势必是毁灭性打击，但是给出辞退工作的建议，单看文字就感觉非常糟心”。
"Because Hong Kong has a very high population density and a very high degree of aging, it would be devastating to have an outbreak in Hong Kong," Mr Mido said.
对于香港，她已经失去的原来的热忱。
For Hong Kong, she has lost her former zeal.
子寒是在日本专门学校就读的一年级新生，家在武汉的她因为上课没有回家过年。
Zi Han is a first-grade freshman at a Japanese special school. Her family in Wuhan did not go home for the New Year.
1月18日，在武汉的家人提醒她屯好防护用品和食物，当时日本情况并不严重。
On January 18, her family in Wuhan reminded her to collect protective goods and food, when the situation in Japan was not serious.
之后，线下药店口罩脱销，亚马逊上价格迅速上涨。
Afterwards, off-line drugstore masks sold out, Amazon prices rose rapidly.
子寒几乎每天早上8点至9点都要坐东京地铁副都心线去学校上课，这条经过池袋，新宿三丁目，明治神宫前（原宿）和涩谷几个大商业圈的地铁线，几乎每天都是人贴着人的拥挤。
The subway goes to school almost every morning from 8am to 9am. It passes through the pond bag, the Shinjuku clove, the subway line in front of the Meiji Shinji Palace and Shibuya Shinto, and the subway lines of Shibuya's several big business circles almost daily.
尽管新闻和地铁广播提醒大家注意防护、减少外出，早高峰时地铁上的乘客并没有减少，只是大部分人和子寒一样戴起了口罩。
Although the news and subway broadcasts alerted people to the need for protection and reduced travel, the number of people on the subway did not decrease during the early rush hours, but most of them wore masks just like the childs.
受到更大影响的，还有迟迟没有等到签证下签的小龙。
Even more affected are dragons who have been slow to sign visas.
小龙从大一开始准备去日留学，一年时间考下了日语N1，考了数次托福和GMAT才拿到了满意的成绩，终于在大四拿到早稻田大学的录取通知书。
After a year of studying abroad, he was able to get a satisfactory result from TOEFL and GMAT. Finally, he got the acceptance letter from Waseda University in his senior year.
原本今年2月她应该收到从日本发出的在留表，拿着它去办理学生签证，4月去报到。
She was supposed to receive a retention form from Japan in February, take it to a student visa, and report back in April.
但现在她的在留表姗姗来迟，大使馆还未开始受理材料，签证不知何时才能下发。
But now her form is long overdue, the embassy has not begun processing materials, the visa does not know when to issue.
小龙不怕没学上，只是担心不能赶上新生周的活动，对于新的环境和生活还需要适应时间。
Young dragons are not afraid not to learn, just worried that can not catch up with the activities of the New Week, for the new environment and life need to adapt to time.
△ 大阪电车站同样在等在留表的团团则更加焦虑。
The Osaka Station, which is also waiting for tables, is even more anxious.
她在武汉的一所小学一边教书，一边申请大阪的语言学校，结束了上学期的教学任务、拿到录取通知后，她便递交了辞职申请。
She submitted her application for resignation after finishing her teaching assignment last semester at a primary school in Wuhan and applying for a language school in Osaka.
这个寒假她回到湖北老家咸宁，等着在留表寄达，准备签证，期待着去日本之后，为申请教育学硕士做准备。
This winter vacation, she returned to Xianning, Hubei Province, waiting for the form to arrive, visa preparation, looking forward to Japan, for the application of Master of Education.
然而因为疫情形势严峻，离武汉只有100公里的咸宁已经封城一个月了。
However, due to the serious situation of the epidemic, only 100 kilometers away from Wuhan Xianning has been closed for a month.
日本也发布入境政策——“自2月13日零时起，持中国湖北省、浙江省签发护照者及入境日本前14日内曾到访湖北省、浙江省的外国人原则上无法进入日本”。
Japan also issued an immigration policy - "From 0000 hours on February 13, foreigners who had visited Hubei and Zhejiang provinces and had visited Japan within 14 days before entering Japan could not, in principle, enter Japan."
许多申请私立语言学校的学生在和学校协商开学时间，但团团申请的是公立学校，她担心“学校没有那么好商量”。
Many students applying to private language schools are negotiating with schools about school hours, but the group is applying to state schools, which she fears are "not that easy to negotiate."
截至2月25日，日本的确诊病例已经达到862例，如果四月疫情还不好转，无法顺利入学，她很有可能要再次申请十月份入学。
As of February 25, there were 862 confirmed cases in Japan, and she is likely to apply again in October if the epidemic does not improve and schools fail.
递交辞职申请没多久的团团，面对这样的转变百感交集，困在咸宁家中，思索着可能需要再找一份临时的工作。
A short time after submitting his resignation application, faced with the mixed feelings of such a transformation, stuck in Xianning's home, thinking that may need to find another temporary job.
文中王小门、浣洱、Eva、Lan、林慧、小洛、米朵、子寒、团团均为化名。
In the text, Wang Xiaoming, singing, Eva, Lan, Lin Hui, Xiao Luo, Mido, cold, Tuan Tuan are alias.
图片均由受访者提供作者 |易琬玉编辑| 图拉实习生 | 匡若彤凤凰新闻客户端 凤凰网在人间工作室出品新型肺炎疫情牵动人心，《在人间》现面向全国网友征稿：（一）疫区影像日记如果你身处疫区请你用照片（视频）和文字记录你所听闻和见到的一切照片不少于3张文字不少于300字投稿方式：微信联系人间君（zairenjianliving）（二）抗击疫情真实故事无论你是一线医护人员、志愿者、确诊或疑似患者及家属、已治愈出院人士等等，如果希望讲述疫情相关经历，请微信联系人间君（zairenjianliving）。
Whether you are a frontline medical worker, volunteer, confirmed or suspected patient or family member, or a person who has been cured of an epidemic, please contact the ruler of the world by letter if you wish to tell us the true story of the epidemic, whether you are a frontline medical worker, volunteer, confirmed or suspected patient or family member, or cured person.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
地球青年丨没学上的中国留学生：被迫休学、中转第三国隔离入境。
Chinese students studying in the Earth's youth, forced to suspend school or transit to a third country for isolation.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "在人间living";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; at & quot; among men.
var msg_title = "地球青年丨没学上的中国留学生：被迫休学、中转第三国隔离入境";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Chinese students from the Earth's youth community: forcibly suspended from school or transiting to a third country to quarantine & quot;;
var msg_desc = "中国留学生的最难上学路。
var msg _ desc = & quot; the hardest way for Chinese students to go to school.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '地球青年丨戴口罩被歧视后，我在纽约时代广场举牌：口罩+亚裔≠病毒',。
At Times Square in New York City, I posed for a mask: Mask + Asian Capulet virus & apos; after it was discriminated against.
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '地球青年丨我不是病毒，我在巴黎街头与50位陌生人拥抱',。
I include 50 strangers in the streets of Paris with whom I hugged and co-opted.
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '地球青年丨饭圈女孩支援疫区：做公益是追星的另一种方式',。
Girls support epidemic areas: Another way to AT & P's service is by & quot; & quot; & quot;.
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="在人间living";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; at human & quot;
