报告称湖北超五成民企生存困难 长期延迟复工潜存经济下行风险​。
The report said that over 50% of private enterprises in Hubei survival difficulties long delay resumption of work potential economic downside risks.
张家振。
Zhang Jiazhen.
中国经营报                      。
China Business News.
中国经营报。
China Business News.
与中国企业同步成长，对话商业领袖，传播商业理想，服务商业人群，《中国经营报》掌控中国商界绝对话语权。
Growing in step with Chinese companies, dialogue with business leaders, spreading business ideals, serving the business community, The China Business Administration controls the absolute voice of the Chinese business community.
。
.
本报记者 张家振 山东临沂 报道随着全国陆续进入复工复产攻坚期，深处疫情中心的湖北省相关工作的谋划部署也备受关注。
Our reporter Zhangjiazhenshandong Linyi reports that the planning and deployment of relevant work in Hubei province, the epicentre of the epidemic, has also attracted much attention as the country enters the critical period of returning to work.
根据目前政策，湖北省内各类企业先按不早于3月10日24时前复工。
According to current policies, enterprises of all kinds in Hubei Province will resume work before 2400 hours before March 10.
湖北省内地市州封城的时间不断延长，企业的生存问题和民众的就业困境凸显，复工、复产、复业问题成为企业家和工人的“心头病”。
The problem of the survival of enterprises and the plight of the people in employment is becoming more and more obvious. The problems of returning to work, returning to work and returning to work have become the "heart disease" of entrepreneurs and workers.
武汉大学中国新民营经济研究中心与武汉市工商联联合发布的《疫情中湖北企业经营分析报告》显示，调研组通过对湖北境内573家企业开展问卷调查发现，目前绝大部分民营企业出现了生存困难，近五成企业最多坚持3个月，且企业对未来大多持悲观态度，6.34%的企业甚至出现撤资倾向。
A survey of 573 enterprises in Hubei province showed that the majority of enterprises in Hubei province had difficulty in surviving, that nearly 50 percent of enterprises stayed for at most three months, and that enterprises were pessimistic about the future, with 6.34 percent even inclined to divest.
2月29日下午，上述报告主要执笔人、武汉大学中国新民营经济研究中心主任罗知在接受《中国经营报》记者采访时表示，企业现在面临的最大问题是没有正向现金流的问题，让更多企业特别是中小民营企业在寒冬里能“活下去”是相关政策出台、落地需要考虑的重点，企业只有先熬过“冬天”生存下去才能享受到税收减免、社保优惠等相关优惠政策。
In an interview with China Business Daily on the afternoon of February 29, Luo Zhi, chief author of the above-mentioned report and director of the China New Private Economic Research Center of Wuhan University, told China Business News that the biggest problem facing companies is the lack of positive cash flow.
延迟复工加剧企业生存困难据了解，2月24日至26日，为深入了解湖北企业在封城期间的生存状态和经营困难，为湖北省特别是武汉市疫后的经济恢复和社会发展提供政策建议，武汉大学中国新民营经济研究中心联合武汉市工商联对湖北省境内573家企业（以武汉市内企业为主，其中国有企业13家，民营企业558家，外资企业2家）开展了为期3天的“疫情中的企业经营状况”问卷调查。
From February 24 to 26, in order to gain a better understanding of the living conditions and operating difficulties of Hubei enterprises during the siege, the Wuhan New Private Economic Research Center of Wuhan University conducted a three-day questionnaire survey on "The state of enterprise operation in the epidemic" among 573 enterprises in Hubei Province, including 13 state-owned enterprises, 558 private enterprises and 2 foreign-funded enterprises.
调研组通过对湖北企业发放调查问卷、线上交流等方式发现，大部分企业生存状况堪忧，主要表现在：长期延迟复工影响企业的生存，可能引发企业倒闭等问题；企业对疫情结束后的发展预期不容乐观；部分企业选择在疫情结束之后撤出武汉。
According to the survey and online communication, the research group found that most enterprises are in poor condition, mainly in the form of long-term delay in resuming work, which affects the survival of enterprises and may lead to the collapse of enterprises.
调研结果显示，目前有97.21%的企业完全停产或者部分停产，高达95.64%的企业认为疫情对经营的影响大或者非常大。
The results show that 97.21 per cent of enterprises are completely or partially shut down, and 95.64 per cent consider the impact of the epidemic on their operations to be high or very high.
在不复工或者产能不恢复的情况下，57.59%的民营企业最多坚持3个月，生存困难。
In the absence of resumption of work or capacity, 57.59 per cent of private enterprises have difficulty surviving for up to three months.
值得关注的是，在受访企业中53.23%的企业对疫情结束后的发展前景持比较悲观态度，有6.34%的企业选择将在疫情结束之后撤出武汉。
It is worth noting that 53.23 per cent of the enterprises surveyed were pessimistic about their post-epidemic development prospects, with 6.34 per cent opting to leave Wuhan after the outbreak.
“企业面临的困境主要是资金紧张、人才流失、成本上升。
"The main difficulties faced by enterprises are capital constraints, brain drain and rising costs.
”调查发现，超过七成的企业存在资金紧张和经营成本上升的困境，超过五成的企业存在缺乏防疫物资、房租压力过大和员工流失的问题，还有四成的企业反映市场已经被抢占。
The survey found that more than 70 per cent of companies suffered from a shortage of funds and rising operating costs, more than 50 per cent suffered from a lack of epidemic prevention materials, excessive rent pressure and staff turnover, and 40 per cent reported that the market had been seized.
“现金是企业的血液，七成的企业缺乏现金流，其中也不乏许多大型的民营企业。
"Cash is the blood of businesses, and 70 per cent of businesses lack cash flow, including many large private enterprises.
”据罗知介绍，目前只有11.87%的企业获得了银行的金融支持，9.08%的企业申请了银行信贷支持但是未获得批准，还有63.53%的企业并未申请。
So far, only 11.87 percent of companies have received financial support from banks, 9.08 percent have applied for bank credit but have not been approved, and 63.53 percent have not, Ro said.
以在湖北总投资超200亿元的某大型新能源智能汽车公司为例，据该公司相关负责人介绍，目前企业虽已部分复工，但产能并不大，现在面临的最大问题是现金流和原材料的问题，没法从银行获得贷款支持，返岗员工和原材料都很难进来，而且原材料涨价很厉害。
For example, a large new energy-smart car company, which invested more than 20 billion yuan in Hubei province, has been partially restarted, but has little capacity. The biggest problems are cash flow and raw materials, lack of loan support from banks, difficulties in getting back-to-work workers and raw materials, and high raw material prices.
值得一提的是，调研组在对一些企业的访谈中发现，外贸企业面临的市场抢占问题尤为突出。
It is worth mentioning that the research group in the interview of a number of enterprises, foreign trade enterprises face the problem of market preemption is particularly prominent.
根据调研结果，在573家受访企业中，有238家反映存在市场被抢占的问题，占比达41.54%。
According to the results of the study, 238 of the 573 enterprises surveyed, or 41.54 per cent, reported that the market had been seized.
湖北外贸企业在全国的竞争者多、可替代性强，市场容易被其他省份企业抢占。
Hubei foreign trade enterprises in the country more competitors, can replace strong, the market easy to be seized by other provinces enterprises.
调研报告认为，外贸市场的开拓比本土市场成本高昂很多，一旦失去外贸市场，想收复失地难度很高。
The study found that the development of the foreign trade market is much more expensive than the local market, once the loss of foreign trade market, it is difficult to recover the loss of land.
面临无法复工，很多出口企业的企业家痛心疾首。
Faced with the prospect of not being able to return to work, many exporters are frustrated.
调研样本中，108家有进出口业务的企业，其中98家反映进出口业务完全停滞。
Of the 108 companies with import and export businesses, 98 reflected a complete stagnation in import and export business.
企业积极自救力争“活下去”在严峻的生存困境面前，湖北省内企业并未“束手就擒”，而是开始组织生产自救，以熬过寒冬。
In the face of the severe survival dilemma, enterprises in Hubei Province have not been caught in a hurry, but have started to organize production to help themselves to survive the cold winter.
根据调研结果，有超过50%的企业进行了股东融资、供应商融资、应收账款抵押和保理融资。
According to the results of the survey, more than 50% of the enterprises have conducted shareholder financing, supplier financing, accounts receivable mortgage and factoring financing.
五成以上的企业会拿出资金力保核心技术工人，还有近四成的企业选择拓展线上业务、员工线上培训。
More than 50% of enterprises will contribute capital to core technical workers, and nearly 40% of enterprises choose to expand online business, employee online training.
“为了防止人才流失，受访的绝大部分公司拿出专门资金试图将企业的技术人员等核心员工留下来，即使现在没法上班也正常发放工资，这实际上也加剧了没有正向现金流企业的资金紧张问题。
"To prevent brain drain, the vast majority of companies interviewed spent money trying to keep core staff, such as technical staff, on hold, paying regular salaries even when they are unable to work, effectively exacerbating the lack of cash flow to cash-flow companies.
”罗知告诉记者。
"Luo Zhi told reporters.
除自救外，受访企业也希望得到更多的外界救助措施。
In addition to helping themselves, the companies interviewed also wanted more outside help.
调研显示，企业最期待的救助措施是发放政府补贴、信贷支持和减免企业所得税。
Research shows that the most sought-after measures for businesses are government subsidies, credit support and corporate income tax cuts.
复工、补贴、贷款、减税、降租和恢复交通物流，是企业最希望相关部门出台的帮扶政策“关键词”。
Return to work, subsidies, loans, tax relief, rent reduction and the resumption of transport logistics, enterprises most want the relevant departments to help the policy "keywords."
尽快有序复工是缓解企业困难的最佳途径，但调研发现，企业复工自救还面临着一系列的困难。
Early and orderly resumption of work is the best way to alleviate the difficulties of enterprises, but the investigation found that enterprises return to work to help themselves still face a series of difficulties.
例如，物流不通畅，供应链中断；缺少防疫指导和防疫物资；员工无法到岗和招工难。
For example, poor logistics and supply chain disruption; lack of epidemiological guidance and epidemic prevention materials; inability of staff to reach their posts and recruitment difficulties.
“在调研中，60%以上的企业反映物流不通畅，有进出口业务的企业面临的原材料和市场问题更加突出。
"In the survey, more than 60 percent of enterprises report poor logistics, and raw materials and market problems facing enterprises engaged in import and export business are more pronounced.
”据罗知介绍，访谈过程中，位于武汉光谷的一家大型高科技龙头企业自动化程度很高，几乎可以实现无人生产，但是关键原材料来自于海外，由于国际航班的停运和国内物流受限，导致产能大幅缩减。
During the interview, a large, high-tech leading company in Wuhan Guanggu was highly automated and almost unproductive, but key raw materials came from overseas, where capacity was severely curtailed by the suspension of international flights and restrictions on domestic logistics, Ro said.
据了解，上述高科技龙头企业为一家国企。
It is understood that the above-mentioned high-tech enterprises for a state-owned enterprise.
就面临的具体困难等问题，该企业方面婉拒了记者的采访。
The company declined interviews with journalists on issues such as the specific difficulties it faced.
在疫情完全结束之前，只有具备防疫能力的企业才可以复工，这是复工的前提条件。
Until the epidemic is completely over, only enterprises with epidemic prevention capacity can resume work, which is a prerequisite for resuming work.
但问卷调查显示，超过五成的企业反映存在防疫物资不足的问题，超过94%的企业认为政府应该组织卫生部门进行防疫流程指导。
But the survey shows that more than 50 percent of enterprises report insufficient epidemic prevention materials, and more than 94 percent believe that the government should organize health departments to conduct epidemic prevention procedures.
此外，有接近五成的企业认为员工流失将导致企业无法恢复产能。
In addition, nearly 50% of companies believe the loss of staff will prevent companies from restoring capacity.
在问卷的另一个问题中，有51.48%的企业反映员工已经流失，只有10.3%的企业预期后期招工不太困难。
In a separate survey, 51.48 per cent of businesses reported staff attrition and only 10.3 per cent expected that recruitment would be less difficult later.
“和企业技术人员等相比，企业面临的普通劳动力流失问题可能会更突出。
"The loss of ordinary labour faced by businesses is likely to be more pronounced than that of business technicians," he said.
”罗知告诉记者，据其了解，一些国有企业的工厂都没有发工资了，部分员工处于没有收入的状态。
Mr Luo told reporters that according to his knowledge, some state-owned enterprises had no wages at all and some of their employees were in a state of no income.
尽快复工有助于提升信心一手抓防疫，一手抓经济，“两手抓两不误”正成为当前全国各地最重要的两项任务。
Resumption of work as soon as possible will help boost confidence while keeping epidemic prevention in hand and the economy in hand.
不过对于湖北省特别是武汉市来说，当前的工作重心仍然在疫情防控上。
However, for Hubei Province, especially Wuhan City, the focus of the current work is still on disease prevention and control.
根据目前政策，湖北省内各类企业先按不早于3月10日24时前复工，尚没有明确的复工日期。
According to the current policy, enterprises of all kinds in Hubei Province have resumed work before 2400 hours before March 10, and no definite date has been set for the resumption of work.
同时为充分考虑“停不得”企业的用工需求，湖北省新冠肺炎疫情防控指挥部近日印发通知，明确首批流动人员为各地保障疫情防控、公共事业运行、群众生活必需以及其他涉及重要国计民生相关企业的返岗员工。
Meanwhile, in order to give full consideration to the demands of enterprises, the Hubei Province New Crown Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command issued a notice recently, making it clear that the first wave of mobile personnel were returning to work in enterprises concerned with the prevention and control of epidemic diseases, the operation of public services, the necessities of life and other enterprises of vital importance.
报告分析认为，随着省内各地市州封城的时间不断延长，企业的生存问题和民众的就业困境凸显。
According to the analysis of the report, the survival of enterprises and the employment plight of the people become more and more obvious with the increasing time of the closure of cities and counties in the province.
贸然复工当然不利于疫情防控，但长期停工又会造成经济塌陷，处理不好这两者的矛盾将有损社会发展。
Of course, the resumption of work is not conducive to disease prevention and control, but long-term work stoppage will cause economic collapse, deal with the contradiction between the two will undermine social development.
“目前来看，湖北抗击疫情的局势实际上已经发生了完全的扭转，市民和前期的感受也截然不同。
"So far, the situation in Hubei Province has actually been completely reversed, and the feelings of the public and the previous period are very different.
在这种情况下，湖北省至少要将三成精力放到复工复产上，而湖北以外的省份至少要拿出七成精力。
Under such circumstances, Hubei province should concentrate at least 30% of its energy on resuming production, while provinces outside Hubei province should devote at least 70% of their energy to it.
”罗知告诉记者，湖北省应该把一些精力放在复工复产的调研、部署上，相关政策从出台部署到落实可能会有半个月的时间差，如果到3月10日之后才着手部署，那么企业复工可能会至少到3月下旬才能落到实处，一些企业不一定能撑到那个时候。
"Mr. Luo told reporters that Hubei province should focus some of its efforts on research and deployment to resume production, with a half-month lag between deployment and implementation, and that if deployment does not start until after March 10, companies may not get back to work until at least late March, and some companies may not survive.
报告建议，在充分保障疫情防控的基础上，湖北省需按照分批次复工的方式，拿出部分人力和物力备战3月10日之后的湖北境内员工返岗复工工作。
The report suggested that, on the basis of fully guaranteeing the prevention and control of the epidemic, Hubei province should devote some manpower and material resources to the preparations for the return to work of the employees in Hubei Province after March 10.
同时，在湖北省境内统一协调，全力恢复物流，允许湖北省内员工到岗（劳动力不出省），通过科学防疫和严格监控，实现“防疫和发展两手抓、两手硬”，避免疫后出现经济下行等各类风险。
At the same time, in Hubei Province, all efforts have been made to restore logistics and allow employees in Hubei province to go to their posts, through scientific epidemic prevention and strict surveillance and control, so as to avoid the risks of economic downturn after immunization.
原则上，高新技术产业、自动化程度高的产业、资本密集型产业、涉及外贸的产业优先复工，有员工宿舍、食堂的企业优先复工，疫情已经得到控制的地市州优先复工。
In principle, high-tech industries, industries with a high degree of automation, capital-intensive industries and industries involving foreign trade should resume work as a matter of priority. Enterprises with staff dormitories and canteens should resume work as a matter of priority.
后期，对于只要达到防疫标准的企业也均应该实现复工，做到“达标一个、复工一个”。
Later, as long as the standards of epidemic prevention enterprises should also be restored to work, to achieve "a standard, a return to work."
对于有条件的企业，鼓励线上办公。
For qualified enterprises, encourage on-line office.
“目前，全国疫情防控工作的主要思路是把疫情控制在局部即湖北地区。
"At present, the main idea of the national epidemic prevention and control is to control the epidemic in the local area of Hubei.
但是，控制在局部并不意味着湖北省内必须纹丝不动。
But local control does not mean that Hubei province must remain static.
多延迟一天复工，企业特别是中小民营企业生存的概率就降低一些，各种风险发生的概率就更高一些。
Delay a day to resume work, enterprises, especially small and medium-sized private enterprises to reduce the probability of survival, a variety of risks are more likely to occur.
”报告建议，当地要在以防疫工作为主的前提下，抽调人手组织有序复工，至少逐步出台复工的安排和部署，明确开工标准、减少开工审批程序，使企业有章可循，让企业家看到希望、重拾信心。
The report suggests that local workers should be deployed to organize and resume work in an orderly manner under the premise of epidemic prevention, at least gradually putting in place arrangements and arrangements for the resumption of work, clarifying start-up standards and reducing approval procedures for starting work, so that enterprises can follow the rules and give entrepreneurs hope and confidence.
帮扶政策需更有针对性出台相关扶持政策的针对性、可行性也是调研关注的重点。
Help policies need to be more targeted to put in place relevant support policies, feasibility is also the focus of research.
报告认为，面对疫情，中央、省、市均出台了很多诸如金融支持、税收社保减免和租金减免等帮扶政策，但政策落实到民营企业特别是中小微企业身上实际上非常困难。
The report found that the central, provincial and municipal governments had introduced a number of support policies, such as financial support, tax relief and rent relief, but that it was actually very difficult for private enterprises, especially MSMEs, to implement the policy.
例如，2月22日，武汉市政府发布应对疫情支持中小企业经营发展的21条措施，在税费减免、金融支持、企业用工、既有政策执行等方面全力为企业营造更为宽松的发展环境。
For example, on February 22, the Wuhan Municipal Government issued 21 measures to support the operation and development of small and medium-sized enterprises in response to the epidemic.
其中对承租国有资产类经营用房的中小企业，3个月房租免收、6个月房租减半，鼓励各类中小企业发展载体减免疫情期间的承租企业租金，市财政按照不超过租金减免总额的50%给予最高200万元补助。
Among them, small and medium-sized enterprises that rent State-owned assets are exempted from paying rent for three months and rent is halved for six months.
但调研组发现，对于政府出台的租金减免政策，573家企业中有527家表示没有获得租金减免，只有46家企业获得不同程度的租金减免，仅占比8.03%。
However, the team found that 527 out of 573 businesses did not receive rent relief and only 46, or 8.03 per cent, received varying degrees of rent relief.
“众多受访的企业家反馈基本上没有业主能主动减免租金。
"The feedback from many of the entrepreneurs interviewed was that few owners could offer rent relief.
”罗知表示，比如一家经营私立幼儿园的企业主告诉我们，租金不仅没有降而且还翻倍了。
Mr Luo says, for example, an entrepreneur who runs a private kindergarten tells us that rents have not only not fallen but doubled.
报告认为，虽然国家出台了金融支持政策，但均是指导性意见，即使对于大型民营企业而言，疫情期间获得更多的银行贷款也有相当的难度，中小民营企业更是举步维艰。
The report argues that while the state has financial support policies in place, they are all guidance, and even for large private companies, getting more bank loans during the epidemic can be difficult, especially for small and medium-sized private enterprises.
此外，国家出台的一些税收减免和社保优惠政策落实到民营企业身上存在困难，而且无法解决现金流缺乏的现实困境，对于很多企业而言也是事后政策，但企业是否还能熬过“冬天”尚且未知。
In addition, the state introduced some tax relief and social security preferential policies to private enterprises, and can not solve the cash flow shortage of the reality of the plight, for many enterprises is an ex post policy, but whether enterprises can survive the "winter" is unknown.
为精确帮扶民营企业特别是中小民营企业，调研组建议，要全力支持和帮助中小民营企业达到疫情防疫的标准，尽快使中小民营企业复工复产；根据2019年民营企业的交税金额，将地方留成的部分以一定比例进行定向返还或累退式返还；对于面临困境的大型、优质民营企业，地方政府与地方商业银行共同进行一对一帮扶。
In order to help private enterprises, especially small and medium-sized ones, the research group recommends that they fully support and help small and medium-sized enterprises to meet the epidemic prevention standards and resume production as soon as possible.
（编辑：石英婧 校对：颜京宁）推荐阅读点击大图|富士康最难最贵“复工季”：北上广深部分中介获得返费高达17000元点击大图|出生45天婴儿确诊！韩专家称最坏情况是40%国民感染,，疫情或至年底！。
(Editors: Quartz) Jing Jing, proofread: Foxconn has had the toughest and most expensive "back to work season": some brokers in the north have received rebates of as much as $17,000.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
报告称湖北超五成民企生存困难 长期延迟复工潜存经济下行风险​。
The report said that over 50% of private enterprises in Hubei survival difficulties long delay resumption of work potential economic downside risks.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "中国经营报";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "报告称湖北超五成民企生存困难 长期延迟复工潜存经济下行风险​";。
var msg _ title = & quot; The report says that Hubei province's over 50% private-sector companies have long delayed its resumption of work.
var msg_desc = "中国经营报 chinabusinessjournal";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Chinabusinessjournal & quot;;; China Business Newspaper.
title: '富士康最难最贵“复工季”：北上广深部分中介获得返费高达17000元',。
Foxconn has had the toughest and most expensive "back-to-work season": some brokers at Northbound & amp; Shenzhen paid $17,000 and & apos; a return fee.
subject_name: '中国经营报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '出生45天婴儿确诊！韩专家称最坏情况是40%国民感染,，疫情或至年底！',。
At least 45 days old, a South Korean expert says the worst was 40% national infection, or by year's end! & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
subject_name: '中国经营报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="中国经营报";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
