专家复盘：“不明原因肺炎”上报失灵的背后。
Expert response: "Unknown causes of pneumonia" report failure behind the failure.
彭丹妮 李想俣。
Penny lee wants Minamata.
中国新闻周刊                      。
China News Weekly.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
这里是《中国新闻周刊》掌门周刊君，影响有影响力的你。
This is the head of China News Weekly magazine, the influence of influential you.
和我一起拨开迷雾，追寻真相，守望时代。
Join me as we move through the fog, seek the truth and keep watch.
。
.
这些信息都报上去了怎么及时转化成防控行动?2月6日下午，一辆运送医疗设备和工作人员的车辆抵达武汉火神山医院。
On the afternoon of February 6, a vehicle carrying medical equipment and staff arrived at Wuhan Huoshen Mountain Hospital.
摄影/长江日报 陈卓1月8日晚，作为中国疾病预防控制中心（CDC）首席流行病学家，曾光突然接到国家卫健委通知，要求他尽快去一趟武汉。
Photography / Changjiang Daily Chen Zhuo January 8 night, as China's Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) epidemiologist, Zeng Guang was suddenly informed by the National Health Commission that he should go to Wuhan as soon as possible.
次日早上7点，他就坐上了从北京飞往武汉的飞机。
The next morning at 7 a.m., he got on a plane from Beijing to Wuhan.
因在武汉只待了一天，曾光没有参与现场调查。
Zeng did not participate in the on-site investigation because he only spent one day in Wuhan.
在地方给包括他在内的专家的汇报中，他听到的是武汉市已经隔离了多少人，密切接触者中没有出现感染者，感染者病症不是太重，和季节性流感差不多……“我们得到的都是这样的信息。
In local reports to experts, including him, he heard how many people had been quarantined in Wuhan, that there were no infected people in close contact, that the infected were not seriously ill, and that the disease was about the same as the seasonal flu... "
”在向《中国新闻周刊》回忆起那次经历时，曾光拍着桌子问，“那时我哪知道还有个李文亮，还有张继先？”即便是基于这样的信息，出于SARS时期的经验，曾光还是建议当地要把感染者完全隔离，疑似病人不但要收治进医院，还要一人一个单间，密切接触者要集中隔离，这是防控要点。
Recalling the experience with China News Weekly, Zeng clapped his hands on the table and asked, "How did I know there was still a Liang Liang and Zhang Jixian?" Even on the basis of the experience of the SARS period, Zeng advised the local authorities to completely isolate the infected person, not only the hospital, but also a single room.
但在当时，武汉并没有采纳这样的措施。
But at the time, Wuhan did not adopt such measures.
“这对于他们是额外的负担”在曾光去武汉的时候，国家卫健委还派出了第二批专家组于1月8日抵汉，在当地调查指导防疫工作，直到1月15日。
"It was an extra burden on them." While Zeng traveled to Wuhan, the State Health Commission sent a second team of experts to Han on January 8 to conduct local investigations and guide the epidemic prevention work until January 15.
上述专家组的一位成员向《中国新闻周刊》介绍说，当时，当地提供给专家组的资料有限，很难判断出病毒有没有人传人的能力。
A member of the above-mentioned expert group told China News Weekly that, at that time, the limited information available locally to the Group made it difficult to determine whether the virus had a human-to-human capability.
他回忆说，1月11日，湖北省与武汉市两级卫健委在与国家卫健委专家组召开会议时，提供了一份人数有100多人的疑似病例名单。
He recalled that on January 11, the Hubei and Wuhan municipal health committees provided a list of more than 100 suspected cases during a meeting with the group of health experts.
专家组的一致意见是，如实公布疑似病例。
The Group agreed that the suspected cases should be disclosed as such.
但在12日，武汉市卫健委的通报只重复了前日通报过的41例确诊病例，并未公布疑似病例情况。
However, on the 12th, Wuhan city health committee of the circular only repeated the day before the 41 confirmed cases notified, not the disclosure of suspected cases.
对此，专家组感到很意外。
This surprised the Group.
临床医生被感染，是疾病人传人的敏感信号。
The infection of a clinician is a sensitive signal from person to person.
据后来媒体报道，1月1日至11日，武汉已有7名医务人员感染。
According to subsequent media reports, seven medical personnel were infected in Wuhan between January 1 and 11.
其中，武汉同济医院医生陆俊于1月7日就确诊了新冠肺炎，在1月17日之前，一直在本院治疗。
Among them, Wuhan Tongji Hospital doctor Lu Junji confirmed the new crown pneumonia on January 7, until January 17, has been treated at the hospital.
上述专家说，当时，他们也走访了武汉同济，却没有人向他们提及该院医务人员的感染情况。
They also visited Wuhan Tongji at the time, the experts said, but did not mention the infection to the hospital's medical staff.
2月23日，中科院院士、上海交通大学医学院院长陈国强等人在《中国科学：生命科学》杂志发表了评述文章《新型冠状病毒感染疫情下的思考》。
On February 23, the academician of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Chen Guoqiang, dean of the Shanghai Jiaotong University School of Medicine, and others published the review "Thinking under the New Coronavirus Infection Epidemic" in the journal Chinese Science: Life Sciences.
文章指出，此次疫情发生早期, 临床医生从个案诊治中已经感觉到问题的严重性及人传人的可能性，但是却没有一支专业高效的公共卫生队伍能够在第一时间深入现场，进行细致、缜密的流行病学调查和及时确诊问题。
The article points out that in the early stage of the epidemic, clinicians have already sensed the seriousness of the problem and the possibility of human-to-human transmission from case to case, but no professional and efficient public health team has been able to conduct detailed and rigorous epidemiological investigations and timely diagnosis in the first place.
很多人都在质疑“非典”之后建立的覆盖全国的传染病直报系统为何没有发挥作用。
Many are questioning why the post-SARS-era system of direct reporting of infectious diseases, which covers the entire country, has not worked.
对此，江苏省预防医学会会长、原江苏省疾控中心主任、省卫生厅副厅长汪华向《中国新闻周刊》指出，“实际上，这个直报系统并不负责发现新发传染病。
"In fact, this direct reporting system is not responsible for detecting new infectious diseases," Wang Hua, president of Jiangsu Preventive Medicine Society and former director of the Jiangsu CDC and vice-minister of provincial health department, told China News Weekly.
”针对新发传染病，2004年12月对《传染病防治法》进行了修订，在需要上报的传染病范围一项，增加了“或者发现其他传染病暴发、流行以及突发原因不明的传染病”内容。
In response to new infectious diseases, the Communicable Disease Prevention and Control Act was amended in December 2004 to add "or detecting outbreaks of other infectious diseases, epidemics and infectious diseases of unknown cause" to the list of infectious diseases to be reported.
新发传染病可以通过直报系统下的子系统“突发公共卫生事件报告系统”上报。
Emerging infectious diseases can be reported through the public health emergency reporting system, a subsystem under the Direct Reporting System.
但问题是，只有首先定义了什么样的情况算公共卫生事件，才能上报。
The problem, however, is that only what is defined in the first place as a public health event can be reported.
对此，北京大学公共卫生学院教授、国家CDC首任主任李立明指出，修订后的《传染病防治法》对这些新发传染病只有一句话，“就是说要报告，但是怎么报告没有明确的规定。
Li Liming, a professor at the Peking University School of Public Health and the first director of the National CDC, noted that the revised Infectious Diseases Act contained only one sentence for these newly emerging infectious diseases.
”所以，1月20日国家规定新冠病毒肺炎为“乙类传染病，按甲类管理”之后，每天就开始报告了。
So, on January 20, the state designated pneumonia as a "Class B infectious disease, managed according to category A," and began reporting it every day.
李立明说，“在这之前，没有定性它是一个什么病、危害性如何，需要有专家评估与卫生行政部门决策的过程。
"Prior to this, it was not clear what the disease was and what the harm was, and an expert evaluation of the decision-making process with the health administration was required."
”而根据国家CDC官网消息，传染病网络直报系统对新冠肺炎作为法定传染病的动态监测功能是2020年1月24日才上线的。
And, according to the National CDC, the Communicable Disease Network Direct Reporting System's dynamic surveillance of new crown pneumonia as a statutory infectious disease only went online on January 24, 2020.
陈国强等人指出，早在2011年，中国CDC与美国CDC相关专家就已经撰文，在总结 2003年SARS以来中国防控新发传染病能力建设取得的成绩的同时，更提出了中国在新发传染病侦测能力上的显著差距。
Chen and others point out that as early as 2011, China's CDC and US CDC experts had already written about China's achievements in capacity-building for the prevention and control of new infectious diseases since SARS in 2003.
实际上，目前在中国的疾控体系内，能监测传染病的并非只有一个直报系统。
In fact, within China's disease control system, there is more than one direct reporting system that can detect infectious diseases.
原卫生部从2004年起，要求在全国范围内开展不明原因肺炎（PUE）病例监测，这是一个单独的系统。
Since 2004, the former Ministry of Health has required nationwide surveillance of cases of unspecified pneumonia (PUE), a separate system.
PUE与传染病直报系统相联。
PUE is linked to the Communicable Diseases Watch system.
也就是说，医生可以通过PUE在直报系统中上报不明原因肺炎病例。
That is, doctors can report cases of unexplained pneumonia through the PUE system.
由国家CDC副主任冯子健指导、2017年发表的一篇硕士毕业论文《不明原因肺炎监测系统评价》介绍说，PUE是一个依赖医疗机构临床医生上报病例的被动监测系统，临床医生对该监测系统的接受程度，直接影响病例报告质量和效率。
PUE is a passive surveillance system that relies on cases reported by clinicians in medical institutions, and clinicians' acceptance of the surveillance system has a direct impact on the quality and efficiency of case reporting, according to a Master's thesis published in 2017 and directed by Feng Zijian, deputy director of the National CDC.
2013年，苏皖等地暴发人感染禽流感H7N9疫情初期，绝大多数病例就是通过PUE发现的。
In 2013, Jiangsu and Anhui outbreak of human avian influenza H7N9 epidemic in the early stage, the vast majority of cases were found through PUE.
然而，该论文指出，目前医院内有大量符合PUE定义的病例，但上报率低。
However, the paper notes that there are currently a large number of PUE-defined cases in hospitals, but that reporting rates are low.
根据国家CDC、湖北省CDC等机构1月29日发表在《新英格兰医学杂志》上的文章，2019年12月29日，武汉当地医院通过PUE监测系统，发现了最早报告的4个新冠肺炎病例。
According to an article published in the New England Journal of Medicine on January 29 by state-run CDC and Hubei Province CDC, on December 29, 2019, Wuhan local hospital discovered the first four reported cases of new crown pneumonia through the PUE surveillance system.
但实际上，根据中国CDC的回溯性分析，以发病日统计，2019年12月31日前已经有104人感染，15人死亡。
But, in fact, according to a retrospective analysis by China's CDC, 104 people were infected and 15 died by December 31, 2019.
“临床医生在接诊时发现不明原因肺炎病人，按要求本应立即报告，但实际操作中没人管。
"The clinician found an unidentified pneumonia patient at the time of admission, which should have been reported immediately, but it was not attended to in practice.
医生都很忙，上报就意味着后续一系列登记填表、调查的工作要做，这对于他们是额外的负担。
Doctors are so busy that reporting means they have to follow a series of registration forms and investigations, which places an additional burden on them.
”汪华说，目前，发热门诊、不明原因肺炎监测系统、流感监测系统，都是彼此独立的，因管理部门不同，分散在医疗机构的管理单项里面。
At present, the fever clinic, the unexplained pneumonia surveillance system and the influenza surveillance system are independent of each other and are dispersed within the management of medical institutions because of differences in management, Wang said.
对此，多位公卫专家表示，应当合并这些分散的监测系统，建立一个统一的呼吸道疾病的监测系统，同时打通临床诊断、报告、治疗与疫情防控各个环节。
In this regard, a number of public health experts said that these decentralized surveillance systems should be merged to create a unified respiratory disease surveillance system, while opening the way for clinical diagnosis, reporting, treatment and disease prevention and control.
比如，能否在医院的电子诊疗系统做一个改进，当医生接诊一个不明原因肺炎病人，不需要再另填表，只需在他的系统里点击按钮，这个病例就能发送到监测系统里去。
For example, if an improvement can be made in the hospital's electronic diagnostic system, when a doctor visits a patient with pneumonia due to unknown causes, there is no need to fill out another form, just click a button in his system and the case can be sent to the monitoring system.
在此次疫情中，许多临床医生在早期就觉察到了异常，但由于缺乏明确的诊断，直报系统无法使用，只能层层人工上报。
In this case, many clinicians are aware of abnormalities early on, but due to the lack of clear diagnosis, the direct reporting system cannot be used and can only be reported manually.
武汉市中心医院急诊科主任艾芬在接受《中国新闻周刊》采访时就表示，2019年12月28日，她所在的急诊科接诊了4例和华南海鲜市场有关的发热病人，在29日向医院公共卫生科作了上报。
On December 28, 2019, her emergency department treated four cases of fever related to the South China seafood market and reported them to the public health department of the hospital, Aifen, director of emergency department at Wuhan Central Hospital, told China News Weekly.
医院公共卫生科又上报给武汉市江汉区疾控中心。
Hospital public health department also reported to Wuhan Jianghan CDC.
对方回复称，湖北省中西医结合医院与武汉市红十字会医院此前也上报了类似病例。
The other side replied that Hubei combined Chinese and Western medicine hospital and Wuhan Red Cross Hospital had previously reported similar cases.
另据媒体报道，靠近华南海鲜市场一家叫优抚的二级医院接收了多例不明原因发热病人。
According to media reports, near the South China seafood market a level II hospital called Youcai received a number of cases of unexplained fever patients.
1月10日左右，尽管医院将集中发热的情况报告给上级疾控部门，但对方并未马上来医院进行调研。
Around January 10, although the hospital reported the concentrated fever to its superior CDC, the other party did not come to the hospital immediately to conduct the investigation.
对此，香港中文大学流行病学荣休教授唐金陵就指出，应当重视一线临床医生的判断。
Tang Jinling, professor of epidemiology at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, pointed out that the judgment of frontline clinicians should be taken seriously.
在未来改进监测系统时，应当考虑把临床医生的观察与判断纳入进去。
The observation and judgement of clinicians should be taken into account in future improvements to the monitoring system.
对于临床医生和疾控专家在疫情发生早期相互沟通、协作的关系，李立明以美国为例介绍说，美国每个医院的急诊科里面都配有CDC专家，他们的任务，就是在急诊室随时发现新的异常病例，建立起一种敏感度很高的疫情监测系统。
As for the relationship between clinicians and disease control experts in the early stages of the epidemic, Li cited the United States as an example of an emergency department staffed with CDC specialists whose job is to detect new cases of abnormality in emergency rooms and to establish a highly sensitive disease surveillance system.
疾控专家与临床医生一起工作，这才叫真正的医防结合。
CDC experts work with clinicians, which is what's called a real medical-defense combination.
曾光说，流行病学是疾病预防控制的基本专业支持，它主要包括疾病监测、疫情报告、现场调查，以及公共卫生决策。
Zeng Guang said that epidemiology is the basic professional support for disease prevention and control, which mainly includes disease surveillance, epidemic reporting, on-site investigation, and public health decision-making.
曾光把流行病学看作一门“情报工作”。
Zeng Guang regarded epidemiology as an "intelligence work."
但现在，他感到专业人士与决策者之间的沟通渠道还不通畅，公共卫生信息难以转化为及时、有效的决策。
Now, however, he feels that the channels of communication between professionals and policymakers are not well developed and that public health information is difficult to translate into timely and effective decision-making.
多位专家指出，回溯此次疫情，尤其是早期阶段，在监测、锁定传染源等环节，在具体操作层面上还有许多可提升的空间。
Experts pointed out that retrospective epidemic, especially in the early stages, in monitoring, locking the source of infection, there is a lot of room for improvement at the operational level.
2月18日深夜 ，工作中的武汉急救中心120调度员陈蕾 。
Late at night on Feb. 18, 120 dispatcher Chen Lei at Wuhan First Aid Center.
新冠肺炎疫情发生以来，武汉市急救中心工作量剧增，陈蕾每天晚8点至早8点工作不停歇。
Since the outbreak of the new crown pneumonia, Wuhan City first aid center workload has increased dramatically, Chen Lei every night from 8 pm to 8 am work.
她的一个愿望是“ 等疫情结束，我要好好睡个觉 !”摄影 / 长江日报 陈亮“宁可错杀一千，也不漏掉一个”“当觉察到异常以后，接下来要对疾病有正确的判断。
One of her wishes was "I want a good sleep when the epidemic is over!" Photography / Changjiang Daily Chen Liang "would rather kill a thousand than miss one.
新发疾病早期不要等待诊断方法，可以根据症状判断，有异常就应及时采取社会行动。
New diseases do not wait for the early diagnosis method, can be judged according to symptoms, abnormal social action should be taken in time.
”复旦大学公共卫生学院原院长、流行病学教授姜庆五说。
Jiang Qingwu, former dean and professor of epidemiology at Fudan University School of Public Health.
据财新报道，1月4日，武汉市卫健委给当地医生的一次培训中，下发了《不明原因的病毒性肺炎诊疗方案（试行）》和《不明原因的病毒性肺炎入排标准》。
According to Caixin, on January 4, Wuhan Health Care Commission gave a training to local doctors, issued "unknown causes of viral pneumonia diagnosis and treatment (trial)" and "unknown causes of viral pneumonia into the standard.
其中，前者由卫健委第一批专家组与湖北当地专家组共同制定，而《入排标准》则由武汉市卫健委编制。
Among them, the first group of health care committee and Hubei local expert group jointly developed, while the "Row Standard" by Wuhan Health Commission compiled.
相比之下，武汉市卫健委编制的《入排标准》对于确诊条件更加严格，须同时具备临床表征与流行病学史，即有华南海鲜市场的接触史。
By contrast, the entry standards compiled by the Wuhan Health Commission are more stringent for the diagnosis of the conditions, must have clinical characteristics and epidemiological history, that is, a history of exposure to the South China seafood market.
但此后多个回溯性研究均表明，过分强调“华南海鲜市场接触史”的流行病学特征，会漏掉许多病例。
Since then, however, several retrospective studies have shown that an overemphasis on the epidemiological characteristics of the "history of exposure to the South China seafood market" has resulted in the omission of many cases.
比如，据武汉金银潭医院副院长黄朝林等人在《柳叶刀》上发表的论文，该院最初收治的41例不明原因肺炎病例中，有14例没有华南海鲜市场接触史。
For example, according to a paper published in The Lancet by Huang Chaolin, vice-president of Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, 14 of the 41 cases of unexplained pneumonia initially admitted to the hospital had no history of exposure to the South China seafood market.
国家CDC主任高福等人1月29日在《新英格兰医学杂志》上发表的文章也显示，在1月1日前发病的病例中，仅55％与华南海鲜市场相关。
In an article in the New England Journal of Medicine on Jan. 29, National CDC director Gao Fuk and others showed that only 55 percent of the cases that developed before January 1 were related to the South China seafood market.
对此，武汉金银潭医院院长张定宇告诉《中国新闻周刊》，疫情早期，专家都会把华南海鲜市场接触史作为流行病学意义上很重要的依据，“没有谁敢单凭一张CT片，或者一个血常规，就说这是什么病。
In response, Zhang Dingyu, director of Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, told China News Weekly that in the early days of the epidemic, experts had identified the history of exposure to the South China seafood market as an epidemiological basis.
现在放射科医生，只要拿到CT片，加上病人的症状，比如咳嗽比较多，咳痰比较少，都敢拍胸脯说就是新冠肺炎。
Now radiologists, as long as the CT, plus the patient's symptoms, such as cough more, cough less sputum, dare to pat chest is said to be new crown pneumonia.
”多位专家也指出，新冠疫情暴发的时间，正好是流感及非典型性肺炎的流行季，也是很多呼吸道传染病高发的季节，这些因素都使得鉴别诊断一个新的呼吸道传染病变得更加困难。
Experts also point out that the timing of the outbreak coincides with an epidemic of influenza and atypical pneumonia, as well as a high incidence of respiratory infections, making it more difficult to identify and diagnose a new respiratory infection.
但李立明指出，病例筛选的标准严格，好处是抓得更准一些，但其实这样做是很危险的。
But Li pointed out that the criteria for screening cases are strict and have the advantage of being more accurate, but it is dangerous to do so.
“为了发现和控制传染源，‘宁可错杀一千，也不漏掉一个’是原则，所以要强调诊断方法的灵敏度要高一些，临床诊断标准可能应该宽一点，以保证不漏掉任何一个可疑的传染源”。
"In order to detect and control the source of infection, 'Better kill a thousand rather than miss one' is the principle, so emphasize the sensitivity of the diagnostic method, and the clinical criteria should be wider to ensure that no suspected source of infection is left out."
国家CDC副主任冯子健后来也对媒体承认，因为偏向更精准的病例锁定，对疫情判断有保守的倾向。
Feng Zijian, deputy director of the National CDC, later admitted to the media that there was a conservative bias towards the epidemic because of a preference for more accurate case-locking.
“这个过程中面临的困难是没有诊断试剂，当有了检测试剂之后，早期迹象也表明，刚开始用时，试剂对上呼吸道、下呼吸道标本阳性检出率比较低，我们不敢轻易排除掉。
"The difficulty in this process is the absence of diagnostic reagents and, when reagents are available, early indications are that they are less likely to be positive for upper respiratory tract and lower respiratory tract specimens at the beginning of use.
受这种早期的限制，我们下结论就非常谨慎。
Given this early limitation, we are cautious in drawing conclusions.
”疫情发生一个多月以来，《新冠肺炎诊疗方案》前前后后已经修订过5次，出了6个版本，因为确定了病原体的存在，这些方案都要求新冠肺炎的确诊条件之一为病原体检测结果阳性。
More than a month after the outbreak, the New Crown Pneumonia Diagnosis and Treatment Program has been revised five times and produced six versions because the presence of pathogens has been identified, and these programmes require positive results for pathogen testing as one of the conditions for diagnosis of new crown pneumonia.
复旦大学公卫教授胡善联指出，需要通过核酸检测确诊病人，初期核酸检测试剂盒不足，对疫情防控造成了一定延误。
Hu Shanlian, professor of public health at Fudan University, said patients needed to be diagnosed with nucleic acid tests, which caused delays in disease control due to a shortage of initial nucleic acid test kits.
“部分疑似病人最终应该是确诊的病人，由于检测试剂供应不够，很多疑似病人没有及时确诊，也造成了一定的传播。
"Some of the suspected patients should eventually be diagnosed, because the supply of detection reagents is insufficient, many suspected patients have not been diagnosed in a timely manner, resulting in a certain spread.
”陈国强等人也指出，疫情暴发后，因流程尚不清晰，出现了符合资质的医疗机构迟迟无法获得检测资质，大量疑似病人积压给临床工作带来巨大压力，而疾控部门由于短时间研发生产的检测试剂质量“良莠不齐”，样本采集标准化程度不高等问题难以将检测权限下放。
Chen and others also point out that after the outbreak, the lack of clarity of the process, the emergence of qualified medical institutions to acquire test qualifications, a large backlog of suspected patients put great pressure on clinical work, and the CDC has difficulty decentralizing detection because of the poor quality of detection reagents developed and produced in a short period of time.
在这个过程中，双方的沟通与协商机制在早期不够健全，影响病毒感染者的早期筛查和确诊，成为延误诊断的“堰塞湖”。
In this process, the two sides of the communication and consultation mechanism in the early period is not sound, affecting the early screening and diagnosis of infected persons, has become a delayed diagnosis of "Yan Sehu."
核酸检测的另一个大问题是“假阴性”高，即使对于已确诊的病人阳性率也只有30％～50％。
Another big problem with nucleic acid testing is the high rate of "false negatives," which is only 30-50 per cent for confirmed patients.
因此，第五版《诊疗方案》对湖北省内的疑似病例不做流行病学史要求，并将肺部CT表现视为“临床诊断”类别。
Therefore, the fifth edition of the Diagnostic and Therapeutic Plan does not require an epidemiological history of suspected cases in Hubei Province, and considers CT manifestations of the lung as a category of "clinical diagnosis."
诊断标准调整后，2月12日，湖北新冠肺炎病例激增了14840例，其中含临床诊断病例13332例。
After adjusting the diagnostic criteria, the number of cases of Xinguan pneumonia in Hubei Province surged by 14,840 on February 12, including 13,332 cases of clinical diagnosis.
第五版诊断又回到了最初的临床诊断。
The fifth edition of the diagnosis returned to the original clinical diagnosis.
对此，姜庆五表示，“果断地采取措施非常重要。
"It is very important to take decisive measures," Jiang said.
一个新发传染病不一定要等待病原清楚、诊断方法建立。
A newly emerging infectious disease does not have to wait for the pathogen to become clear and diagnostic methods are established.
还好我们现在有先进技术，如果放到十几年前，这样的情况根本不可思议。
Fortunately, we now have advanced technology, if put more than a decade ago, such a situation is simply inconceivable.
”香港中文大学流行病学荣休教授唐金陵也指出，和上次SARS一样，媒体上传播的消息，使公众和决策者认为，分离病毒以及研制检测方法、治疗方法和疫苗等工作是首要的工作。
Tang Jinling, professor of epidemiology at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, also noted that, like the last SARS outbreak, news disseminated in the media had convinced the public and policy makers that the separation of the virus and the development of testing methods, treatments and vaccines were top priorities.
“我认为这是完全错误的，是本末倒置的做法。
"I think it's totally wrong and upside-down.
这些研究固然重要，但是对于控制迫在眉睫的传染病，根本就来不及。
Important as these studies are, they are too late to control an impending epidemic.
”他还举例说，上次的SARS疫情就不是靠发现病毒来控制住的，至今也没有有效的治疗办法，疫苗至今还是遥遥无期。
For example, he said the last SARS outbreak was not brought under control by the discovery of a virus, and there is still no effective treatment, and the vaccine is still far away.
成功控制SARS最终靠的是传统的检疫、隔离、消毒、通风、个人防护等卫生措施。
Successful SARS control ultimately depends on traditional quarantine, isolation, disinfection, ventilation, personal protection and other health measures.
如果SARS期间我们更早、更大地让卫生和疾控发挥作用，可能传播的范围会小得多，死的人会少得多，医护人员的保护会好得多。
If we had let hygiene and disease control work earlier and more during SARS, it would have spread much less, killed far fewer people and protected health-care workers much better.
2月24日，武汉一家医院内，护士正在整理新冠肺炎逝者的遗物。
On Feb. 24, nurses at a hospital in Wuhan were sorting out the remains of the dead with pneumonia.
“如果决策者缺乏专业知识，专业人士的建议可能也是徒劳”2019年12月31日，国家卫健委第一批专家组抵达武汉。
"If policymakers lack expertise, the professionals' advice may prove futile," the first group of health experts from the National Health Commission arrived in Wuhan on December 31, 2019.
这一天，中国CDC应急中心主任李群与同事们也赶到武汉，分三组对武汉金银潭医院的89例收治病人全部进行了调查。
Li Qun, director of China's CDC Emergency Response Center, and colleagues arrived in Wuhan on the same day to conduct a three-group investigation of all 89 patients admitted to Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
他们的工作包括病例监测、流行病学调查、密切接触者管理等。
Their work includes case surveillance, epidemiological investigation, close contacts management, etc.
据CDC官网信息，“随着大量认真细致的调查分析，相关调查研究和风险评估报告陆续提供到决策部门手中。
According to CDC, "with a lot of careful investigation and analysis, the relevant investigation and risk assessment reports continue to be provided to the decision-making departments.
”CDC的流行病学调查结果如何，以及这些风险评估报告对决策部门起到什么作用，这些情况至今仍不得而知。
What are the results of the CDC's epidemiological survey, and how these risk assessments have contributed to policy-making, remain unclear.
中疾控传染病预防控制所病毒学家、复旦大学上海市公共卫生临床中心兼职教授张永振领导的团队于2019年12月26日收到来自武汉的不明原因发热患者标本一份。
On December 26, 2019, a team led by virologist and adjunct professor at Shanghai Public Health Clinical Center of Fudan University received a specimen of an unexplained febrile patient from Wuhan.
1月5日上午，他们从标本中检测出一种新型冠状病毒，获得了该病毒的全基因组序列。
On the morning of January 5, they detected a new coronavirus from a specimen and obtained a complete genome sequence of the virus.
上海公卫临床中心在同日向国家卫健委提交了一份病原学调查报告。
The Shanghai Public Health Clinic Center submitted a report on etiology to the National Fitness and Health Commission on the same day.
报告指出：鉴于该病毒与造成SARS疫情的冠状病毒同源，应是经呼吸道传播，建议在公共场所采取相应的防控措施以及在临床救治中采用抗病毒治疗。
The report said the virus and the cause of SARS coronavirus homologous, should be transmitted through the respiratory tract, recommended in public places to take appropriate prevention and control measures and clinical treatment in the use of antiviral treatment.
但这份报告似乎并未起到什么作用。
But the report does not seem to have worked.
从第二天，即1月6日开始，到1月10日，武汉市卫健委均未作疫情通报。
From January 6, the next day, until January 10, Wuhan city health committee did not report the disease.
与此形成对照的是，早至1月4日，香港特区政府便对不明原因肺炎启动了“严重”级别应变，尽管当时该地怀疑病例只有7例。
By contrast, as early as January 4, the HKSAR government launched a "severe" response to unexplained pneumonia, despite the fact that only seven cases were suspected at the time.
“是公共卫生系统出问题了。
"There's something wrong with the public health system.
”曾光告诉《中国新闻周刊》，“不是流行学调查没调查好，也不是病毒不该研究，也不是不该发论文。
Zeng told China News Weekly: "It is not that epidemiological surveys are not well investigated, nor that viruses should not be studied nor that papers should not be distributed.
这些信息都报上去了，怎么及时转化成防控行动？现在的新冠疫情防控，还不是一个应急的战时体制，就像打仗，有情报部、参谋部、司令部，情报信息迅速到参谋部去研判，参谋部给出建议以后，司令部马上就拍板，应该是这么一个体制。
Now the new crown disease control system is not an emergency wartime system, just like war, intelligence department, general staff, headquarters, intelligence information is quickly sent to the general staff for deliberation, and the general staff gives advice.
”美国加州大学洛杉矶分校公共卫生学院副院长、流行病学资深终身教授张作风回忆说，2003年SARS的成功防治，得益于当时有很多流行病学专家和疾控专家献计献策。
Zhang style, a senior life-long epidemiologist and vice president of the UCLA School of Public Health, recalled that the success of SARS prevention and treatment in 2003 was due to the contributions of many epidemiologists and disease control specialists.
然而，一位疾控专家认为，社会仍未从过去的教训中总结经验。
However, according to one CDC expert, society is still learning from the lessons of the past.
SARS期间，作为防控顾问，他能直接参与研判，得出的结论或者建议很快地转化为防控行动。
During SARS, as a consultant on prevention and control, he was able to participate directly in the diagnosis and the conclusions or recommendations were quickly translated into control actions.
而现在，省疾控中心的调查结果要向省卫生厅报告，市、区、县疾控向各级卫健委报告，卫生行政部门要向政府报告。
Now, the results of the survey of the provincial CDC should be reported to the provincial health department, the city, district and county disease control should report to the health committee at all levels, and the health administrative department should report to the government.
“经过一层一层上报，效率就没了，而且真正报上去的信息可能也走样了。
"There is a layer of reporting, the efficiency is gone, and the information that is actually reported may be out of whack.
”陈国强等人则指出，地区决策者是公共卫生事件中的指挥主体，需要第一时间组织专家团队提供决策建议。
Chen and others point out that regional policymakers are the main body of command in public-health matters, requiring first-time expert teams to provide decision-making advice.
武汉作为国内临床医疗、公共卫生及病毒研究最豪华的专业阵容所在地，此次专业团队在当地政府早期疫情判断及应对决策过程中的作用似乎没有得到最大发挥, 是需要深入思考与反省的。
Wuhan as the most luxurious professional lineup of clinical medicine, public health and virus research in China, the role of professional team in the local government's early disease diagnosis and decision-making process does not seem to be the most developed, it needs in-depth reflection and reflection.
曾光说，如果决策者缺乏专业知识，专业人士的建议可能也是徒劳。
If policymakers lack expertise, Mr. Zeng says, professionals' advice can be futile.
李立明强调，基本的公卫知识和观念非常重要。
Li stressed the importance of basic public health knowledge and concepts.
“呼吸道传染病，怎么可能不出现人传人？只是时间早晚的问题，不应该出现‘有限的人传人’这种说法。
"Respiratory tract infections, how can there be no human-to-human transmission? It is only a matter of time before there should be no 'limited person-to-person'.
如果全社会都有一些基本共识，早期防控不应该是这样。
If there is some basic consensus in society, early prevention and control should not be that way.
”1月19日，曾光与中国工程院院士钟南山等人一起，以国家卫健委高级别专家组成员的身份再赴武汉。
On January 19, Zeng went to Wuhan together with Zhong Nan Shan, a member of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, as a member of a high-level group of experts.
1月20日晚，钟南山在与央视的直播连线中，肯定了新型冠状病毒存在人传人的现象，并称有14名医务人员在护理一名患者过程中被感染。
On the night of January 20, Zhong Nan Shan confirmed the human-to-human transmission of the new coronavirus and said 14 medical personnel were infected while nursing a patient.
疫情防控由此迎来转折点。
This marks a turning point in epidemic prevention and control.
在当天下午的发布会上，曾光公开呼吁，春节期间减少人群流动，能不到武汉去就不去，武汉人能不出来就不出来，“这不是官方号召，是我们专家组的建议。
At the afternoon press conference, Zeng Guang made a public appeal to reduce the flow of people during the Spring Festival, can not go to Wuhan, Wuhan can not come out, "This is not an official call, it is our expert group recommendations.
”一个多月后的2月24日，中国-世界卫生组织新型冠状病毒肺炎联合专家考察组外方组长、世界卫生组织总干事高级顾问布鲁斯·艾尔沃德在对中国所采取的措施进行评价时说，面对一种未为人知的新型病毒，中国采取了恢弘、灵活和积极的防控措施。
"More than a month later, on February 24, Bruce Alvold, Senior Advisor to the Director-General of the World Health Organization and head of the foreign team of the China-WHO Joint Expert Mission on Coronavirus Pneumonia, said in an evaluation of the measures taken by China.
对于中国采取的封城之类的围堵策略，艾尔沃德认为，“这些做法相当现代，目的是为了迅速地找到每一个感染者，穷尽式地追踪到密切接触者并进行隔离。
"These practices are fairly modern," he says, "in order to find everyone infected quickly, to track down and isolate close contacts in an exhaustive manner."
”“在这样的突发公共卫生事件的情况下是可以凝聚起民众的力量的。
"In a public health emergency like this, the power of the people can be mustered.
”2月22日，工作人员给封闭中的武汉华南海鲜市场进行消毒。
On February 22, workers disinfected the closed South China seafood market in Wuhan.
摄影/解放日报 赖鑫琳值班编辑：俞杨推荐阅读▼研究生紧急扩招，考研党速效救心特朗普首次访印：他肯定是要“拿到东西”的封面报道《新冠病毒——我们要付出多大代价》《围城之战——我们如何过关》《武汉攻坚——我们如何与疫情赛跑》《防控之辨——我们怎样科学应对》点击下图，一键下单。
/ [^ # 39 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 116] / n. Trump's First Interview with India: Surely he wanted to "get something" on the cover of "The Battle of the City - How We Go Through" Wuhan Jianzheng - How We Run Against the Outbreak.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
专家复盘：“不明原因肺炎”上报失灵的背后。
Expert response: "Unknown causes of pneumonia" report failure behind the failure.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "中国新闻周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "专家复盘：“不明原因肺炎”上报失灵的背后";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "这些信息都报上去了，怎么及时转化成防控行动?";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; all this information has been reported, and how it was promptly converted to control?;
title: '研究生紧急扩招，考研党速效救心',。
R & D's quick fix at & quot; & rsquo; & rsquo; s emergency recruitment.
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '研究生紧急扩招，考研党速效救心',。
R & D's quick fix at & quot; & rsquo; & rsquo; s emergency recruitment.
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '特朗普首次访印：他肯定是要“拿到东西”的',。
& nbsp; Trump's first visit to India: He must have been at & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '特朗普首次访印：他肯定是要“拿到东西”的',。
& nbsp; Trump's first visit to India: He must have been at & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '特朗普首次访印：他肯定是要“拿到东西”的',。
& nbsp; Trump's first visit to India: He must have been at & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="中国新闻周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by China News & quot;
