日本“以举国之力向中国提供支援”背后。
Japan "with national strength to provide support to China" behind.
李静。
Li Jing.
中国新闻周刊                      。
China News Weekly.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
这里是《中国新闻周刊》掌门周刊君，影响有影响力的你。
This is the head of China News Weekly magazine, the influence of influential you.
和我一起拨开迷雾，追寻真相，守望时代。
Join me as we move through the fog, seek the truth and keep watch.
。
.
“安倍采取了比特朗普政府更温和的态度”2月8日，在日本东京池袋， “旗袍女孩”在“东京灯 会满月祭”现场为中国募捐 。
"Abe took a more conciliatory stance than the Trump administration," Feb. 8, when the Chipao Girl raised money for China at the Tokyo Light Festival in Tokyo Pool Bag.
图 / 新华暖春下的日本对华援助本刊记者/李静发于2020.3.2总第937期《中国新闻周刊》2月17日凌晨，来自日本的第五趟包机载着援助物资飞抵武汉。
Japanese Aid to China 2007-09-25 21: 48 Chinese News Weekly, No. 937, February 17, 2007 The fifth flight from Japan arrived in Wuhan with aid on board.
从1月28日首趟包机飞抵武汉开始，来自日本的援助物资源源不断地进入中国，援助方涵盖日本从中央到地方的各级政府，以及企业、民间团体和个人。
Since the first charter flight arrived in Wuhan on January 28, a steady flow of aid has arrived from Japan, from central to local governments, as well as businesses, civil society groups and individuals.
日本自民党干事长二阶俊博在接受采访时表示，日本“以举国之力向中国提供支援”。
In an interview, Japan's Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) Minister Toshiba II said Japan was "providing support to China with national strength."
日本国际协力机构（JICA）全程参与了首趟包机的物资采购和协调工作。
The Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) was involved throughout the procurement and coordination of the first charter flight.
JICA中国事务所副所长糟谷良久告诉《中国新闻周刊》，本来JICA的储备仓只有帐篷、毛毯这类应急救援物资，而武汉急需的口罩、防护服等防疫用品，都是临时协调、紧急采购来的。
JICA's deputy director of China Dao Gu told China News Weekly that JICA only had emergency supplies such as tents and blankets, while Wuhan urgently needed masks and protective clothing were procured on an ad hoc and emergency basis.
中国驻日本大使孔铉佑在近日发表的一篇随笔中写道：“在自身也面临新冠肺炎防控压力的情况下，日方能够出于人道主义精神向中方雪中送炭⋯⋯这种跨越国界的情谊难能可贵，也得到了中国民众的诚挚感谢。
In a recent essay, Chinese Ambassador to Japan Hyun Hyun wrote: "In the face of its own pressure to prevent and control new crown pneumonia, Japan has been able to deliver carbon to China on a humanitarian basis.
”态度比特朗普政府更温和2月10日，日本自民党干事长二阶俊博宣布，自民党将向中国提供支援资金，将从包括日本首相安倍晋三在内的每一位自民党国会议员3月经费中，先行扣除5000日元（约合人民币318元），向中国捐款。
"More moderate than the Trump administration, on February 10, Japan's Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) Minister Toshio Toshiba announced on February 10 that the LDP would provide support to China by deducting 5,000 yen (318 yuan) from the March outlay of every LDP MP, including Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.
中国社会科学院研究员高洪对《中国新闻周刊》说，政治家群体自掏腰包捐款，这一举动可以说史无前例，“钱的金额虽然不大，但瓜子不饱是人心”。
Gao Hong, a researcher at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, told China News Weekly that the unprecedented move by politicians to donate money from their own pockets "means that while the amount of money is small, the lack of seeds is the heart of the people."
这也展现了一种姿态，因为政治家的行为是有一定示范作用的。
It is also a gesture, because politicians "behavior is exemplary.
中国遇到重大灾情，日方全力提供援助，这并不是第一次。
This is not the first time that Japan has offered full assistance to China in the face of a major disaster.
糟谷良久向《中国新闻周刊》介绍，自上世纪80年代以来，因中国发生重大灾害，日本政府向中国提供近20次物资等方面的大规模援助，包括1998年长江特大洪水、2003年非典疫情、2008年汶川大地震。
Since the 1980s, the Japanese government has provided China with nearly 20 large-scale supplies and other aid, including the 1998 Yangtze River floods, the 2003 SARS epidemic and the 2008 Wenchuan earthquake, according to China News Weekly.
2008年汶川地震，日本政府通过 JICA 先后派遣了由61名人员组成的国际紧急救援队。
Wenchuan earthquake in 2008, the Government of Japan through JICA successively sent a 61-member international emergency rescue team.
当时，糟谷良久作为救援队的一员，进入最核心的灾区北川，参与了青川县、北川中学、北川县城的搜救，“在那里体验了余震，也感受灾害带来的悲怆、痛苦、危险”。
At that time, as a member of the rescue team, long into the core of the disaster area of Beichuan, participated in Qingchuan County, Beichuan Middle School, Beichuan County search and rescue, "there experience aftershocks, but also feel the tragedy, pain and danger.
这次经历，让糟谷良久“一辈子难忘记”。
This experience, let bad valley for a long time "forever hard to forget."
糟谷良久认为，每个灾害都有不同的情况，援助也有不同的特点，不能简单地进行比较。
It has long been recognized that each disaster has different circumstances and that assistance has different characteristics that cannot be compared simply.
在他看来，中日之间有很多交流和互相帮助的渠道，一旦发生了大灾害，这些渠道都会发挥作用。
In his view, there were many channels of communication and mutual help between China and Japan, which worked in the event of a major disaster.
但与以往的援助相比，日本这次自上而下总动员式的援助，还是有不少特殊性。
But compared with previous aid, Japan's top-down general mobilization of assistance, there are a number of special.
除了自民党国会议员扣除经费用以向中国捐款外，一些日本地方政府还动用了救灾应急物资。
In addition to funds withheld by LDP lawmakers to donate to China, some local governments have used emergency supplies.
日本茨城县中部的水户市，只有27万常住人口，救灾应急储备中有15万只口罩，拿出5万只捐赠给了重庆市；名古屋市救灾应急储备中共有36万个口罩，向友好城市南京市捐赠了10万个；常住人口约17万的日立市只储备了两万零几千个口罩，拿出两万个作为支援物资，几乎倾囊而出。
The city of Suwon in central Ibaraki Prefecture has only 270,000 residents, 150,000 masks in its emergency stockpile and 50,000 donated to Chongqing, Nagoya has 360,000 masks in its emergency stockpile and 100,000 to the friendly city of Nanjing. Hitachi, with a resident population of about 170,000, has only a stockpile of 20,000 masks and nearly 20,000 for support.
此外，东京、大分、熊本、长崎、宫崎等日本地方政府都不惜动用救灾应急储备援助中国。
In addition, local governments in Tokyo, Osaka, Kumamoto, Nagasaki and Miyazaki have used their emergency reserves to assist China.
由于日本地震、火山喷发、台风等自然灾害较多，日本各地政府都有救灾物资储备。
As Japan earthquake, volcanic eruption, typhoon and other natural disasters more, all over Japan have reserves of relief materials.
这种救灾应急物资，是在灾害发生时用来保障当地灾民生活必需应急用的，动用救灾应急储备去援助其他国家非常罕见。
Such emergency relief materials are used to meet the emergency needs of local people in the event of a disaster, and it is very rare to use the emergency reserve to assist other countries.
据日本卫生材料工业联合会数据，日本国内原有近10亿个家用口罩库存，在过去短短一个多月里已经告罄。
According to the Japan Federation of Health Materials Industries, Japan has a stock of nearly 1 billion household masks, which has been depleted in just over a month.
现在，口罩缺货的场景已经在日本多地出现。
Now, masks are out of stock in many parts of Japan.
日本湖北总商会执行会长吴小玲自上世纪80年代起就在日本工作和生活，在她看来，日本人是很有感恩之心的，“你给他一份爱，他就还你十分情，民族性格就这样”。
Wu Xiaoling, the chief executive of the Hubei General Chamber of Commerce, has been working and living in Japan since the 1980s, and feels grateful that "if you give him a love, he will pay you back.
日本前首相鸠山由纪夫在录制为武汉加油的视频中也提到，日本不会忘记“311”特大地震时中国对日本的帮助。
Former Japanese Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama also said in a video taped to refuel in Wuhan that Japan would not forget China's help to Japan in the wake of the "311" earthquake.
“日本是个多灾多难的国家，他们很知道灾难来了是什么样子，邻居遇到灾了，他们有一份共情心，会自觉地去帮助。
"Japan is a disaster country, they know very well what the disaster is like, neighbors encountered, they have a sense of empathy, will consciously help.
”吴小玲说。
"said Wu.
另一方面，按照世界卫生组织的说法，作为国际关注的突发公共卫生事件，新冠肺炎疫情的影响是跨越国界的，对相互间经济合作、人员往来密切的国家影响尤其大。
On the other hand, according to the World Health Organization, as a public health emergency of international concern, the impact of the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic transcends national borders, affecting in particular countries with close economic cooperation and people-to-people contacts.
日本知名的综合研究兼智囊咨询机构大和总研测算了疫情对日本实际GDP的影响：若疫情持续三个月，将会使其减少0.1％；若持续一年，将会减少0.9％。
The impact of the epidemic on Japan's real GDP was estimated by Da Heping, Japan's leading comprehensive research and think tank: 0.1 per cent if the epidemic lasted three months and 0.9 per cent if it lasted one year.
在2003年非典疫情时，日本曾采取在当时比较严厉的措施，例如警告国民不要到北京和广州旅游，尽量少到中国出差，尽量减少与中国人的接触；所有日本人从中国回国10天以内自行隔离，不准上班上学，不准到街上走动；停止每年数万名中学生到中国修学旅行；取消了许多中国代表团访问和参加国际会议的资格等。
At the time of the SARS epidemic in 2003, Japan had taken more stringent measures at that time, such as warning nationals not to travel to Beijing and Guangzhou, minimizing travel to China and minimizing contact with the Chinese; isolating all Japanese from China for up to 10 days, preventing them from going to work and going around the streets; stopping tens of thousands of middle school students travelling to China every year; and cancelling many Chinese delegations' visits and participation in international conferences.
当时，中日两国双向人员往来还不到400万人次。
At that time, China and Japan had less than 4 million people travelling in both directions.
但到了2018年，两国双向人员往来已经超过1100万人次，其中赴日本中国游客达到838万人次。
By 2018, however, there had been more than 11 million two-way trips between the two countries, with 8.38 million Chinese visitors to Japan.
相比之下，2018年中美两国的人员往来超过500万人次，为中日人员往来的一半。
In 2018, by contrast, China and the US had more than five million people in transit, half the number of people in China and Japan.
截至2月23日，日本新型冠状病毒感染确诊人数已经上升至755人，但对比美国、澳大利亚、俄罗斯等国因疫情禁止中国人入境的临时性限制措施，日本至今对中国旅客的入境限制仍然相对宽松：申请入境当日之前的14天内有中国湖北省、浙江省停留史的外国人，以及持有此两省发行的该国护照的外国人，不允许入境日本。
As of February 23, the number of people diagnosed with the new coronavirus infection in Japan has risen to 755, but restrictions on the entry of Chinese tourists remain relatively relaxed: foreigners with a history of stopovers in Hubei and Zhejiang provinces, as well as foreigners holding passports issued by the two provinces, are not allowed to enter Japan.
日本乒乓球协会2月21日还表态，欢迎中国乒乓球队前往日本进行奥运前的备战。
The Japan Table Tennis Association also welcomed the Chinese table tennis team to Japan for the pre-Olympic preparations.
《日本时报》报道称，到目前为止，日本首相安倍晋三成功地避免了新冠肺炎疫情对中日关系产生消极影响。
So far, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has managed to avoid a negative impact on Sino-Japanese relations, the Japan Times reported.
“安倍采取了比特朗普政府更温和的态度，为东京在北京赢得了赞誉。
"Abe has taken a more conciliatory approach than the Trump administration, winning praise for Tokyo in Beijing.
这与安倍近年来着力修复与中国这个最大贸易伙伴的关系一脉相承。
This is in line with Abe's recent focus on restoring relations with China, the country's largest trading partner.
2012年之后，两国关系曾一度遭遇数十年来最严重的低谷”。
After 2012, relations between the two countries hit their worst trough in decades. "
适度向亚洲倾斜作为世界上的援助大国，对外援助是日本公共外交的重要手段，除了有人道因素，也有经济、政治甚至安全方面的考量。
As a major aid country in the world, foreign aid is an important means of Japanese public diplomacy, not only human factors, but also economic, political and even security considerations.
其中，政府开发援助（简称为ODA）是二战后日本对外进行援助的一种最重要的方式。
Among them, government development aid, or ODA, was one of the most important forms of Japanese foreign aid after World War II.
ODA脱胎于二战后的战争赔偿，与日本最早签订ODA协定的是缅甸、菲律宾、印度尼西亚、越南、泰国、马来西亚等东南亚国家。
ODA originated from the war reparations after World War II, and the earliest countries with which Japan signed the ODA agreement were Myanmar, the Philippines, Indonesia, Vietnam, Thailand, Malaysia and other Southeast Asian countries.
那时，由于二战日本与亚洲疏离，以日美关系为基轴，ODA成功缓和了日本与东南亚各国的紧张关系。
At that time, because of Japan's estrangement from Asia during World War II, based on Japan-US relations, ODA succeeded in defusing tensions between Japan and Southeast Asian countries.
瑞士日内瓦韦伯斯特大学学者莱昂内尔·法顿（Lionel P Fatton）在题为《日本归来：动摇的中-美-日三角关系中的自主和平衡》一文中说，1971年，美国国家安全顾问亨利·基辛格秘密访华，为1972年尼克松访华铺平了道路，但是美方没有通知日本领导人。
As Lionel P. Fatton, a scholar at the University of Webster in Geneva, Switzerland, wrote in the article entitled "The Return of Japan: Autonomy and Balance in the Shaking Sino-US-Japan Triangle," that in 1971, US National Security Advisor Henry Kissinger's secret visit to China paved the way for Nixon's visit in 1972, but the US did not inform Japan's leaders.
由于前所未有地担心美国转而支持中国，日本政府急于与中国实现关系正常化，承诺向中国政府提供巨额援助。
Anxious to normalize relations with China amid unprecedented fears that the US might turn to China, the Japanese government has pledged huge aid to Beijing.
1972年，中日实现邦交正常化。
In 1972, China and Japan normalized diplomatic relations.
自1979年开始，日本为中国提供了40年总额超过36461万亿日元（约合2852亿元人民币）的ODA援助。
Since 1979, Japan has provided more than 36,461 trillion yen (285.2 billion yuan) of ODA assistance to China for 40 years.
美国史密斯学院研究日本外交政策的学者丹尼斯·安友在《日本何以成为对外援助大国》等文章中写道，ODA成功帮助日本摆脱了战后的外交困境。
Dennis Ahn, a scholar on Japanese foreign policy at Smith College in the United States, wrote in Why Japan Becomes a Big Aid to Foreign Countries that ODA succeeded in extricating Japan from its postwar diplomatic woes.
日本逐渐发现，在所有的外交手段中，对外援助是一种更为温和灵活的政策工具。
Japan is finding that foreign aid is a more benign and flexible policy tool in all its diplomacy.
在2012年12月二度入主首相官邸后，安倍政府对东南亚和中亚地区的援助开始大幅增加。
Following its second inauguration in December 2012, Abe's government's assistance to South-East Asia and Central Asia began to increase significantly.
此外，伴随着21世纪是“亚洲世纪”的说法被不断提出，安倍政府的政策重心也适度向亚洲倾斜。
Moreover, with the claim that the twenty-first century is the "Asian century," Abe's government has shifted its policy focus moderately toward Asia.
2015年又一次修订的ODA大纲中，首次提及“国家利益”，明确指出ODA“确保为维持日本和平、实现繁荣的国家利益而继续贡献。
The ODA outline, revised again in 2015, refers for the first time to "national interests," making it clear that ODA "ensures continued contribution to the national interest of maintaining peace and prosperity in Japan."
”2013年，安倍在一年时间内访问了东盟所有10个成员国，并在2013年12月举行了日本与东盟国家特别峰会。
In 2013, Abe visited all 10 ASEAN member countries in one year, and held an extraordinary summit of Japan and ASEAN countries in December 2013.
此外，据前中国驻日本大使程永华透露，2012年中日关系陷入困难时期之后，是日方在2016年最先显示积极姿态的。
Moreover, according to Cheng Yonghua, the former Chinese ambassador to Japan, Japan was the first to show a positive stance in 2016, after a difficult period in China-Japan relations in 2012.
2013年1月，安倍在众议院接受质询时还说：“日中关系对我国而言是最重要的双边关系之一。
"Japan-China relations are one of the most important bilateral relations for our country," Abe also said in January 2013 during a question in the House of Representatives.
”莱昂内尔·法顿认为，在奥巴马担任总统期间，美国曾制定“转向亚洲”政策，但在特朗普上台之后，美国对日本的安全承诺越来越不确定。
Lionel Fatton argues that, under President Barack Obama, the United States enacted a "pivot to Asia" policy, but after Trump came to power, the US became increasingly uncertain about Japan's security commitments.
同时，美国在东亚投射军事力量的能力越来越弱，加上预算限制，将影响其作为日本安全保护者的可信度。
At the same time, America's diminishing ability to project military power in East Asia, combined with budgetary constraints, will undermine its credibility as a protector of Japanese security.
面对日本周边特别是东北亚区域格局的新变化，自2018年9月至2019年2月，安倍在不同场合先后公开提出“战后日本外交总决算”的战略概念。
Faced with the new changes in the regional pattern around Japan, especially in Northeast Asia, Abe has publicly put forward the strategic concept of the "General Accounts of Japan's Post-War Diplomacy" on various occasions from September 2018 to February 2019.
安倍指出，朝鲜核问题、解决朝鲜绑架日本人质问题、中日关系完全正常化以及日俄缔结和平条约等问题，将作为“战后日本外交总决算”框架中着重需要解决的问题。
Abe pointed out that such issues as the North Korean nuclear issue, the resolution of the abduction of Japanese hostages by North Korea, the complete normalization of China-Japan relations and the conclusion of a peace treaty between Japan and Russia will be highlighted as issues to be resolved within the framework of the "General Accounts of Japan's Post-War Diplomacy."
中国社科院日本研究所副研究员庞中鹏在2019年9月第5期《东北亚学刊》中撰文指出，“战后日本外交总决算”的提出与安倍想大幅度改善同中国的关系有很大关联。
Writing in the September 2019 issue of the Northeast Asian Journal, Pang Zhongpeng, Associate Researcher at the Japan Institute of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, argued that the "General Accounts of Japan's Post-War Diplomacy" had much to do with Abe's desire to significantly improve relations with China.
2018年开始，中日关系逐渐重回正轨。
Beginning in 2018, China-Japan relations are back on track.
同年10月，在正式访华前夕，安倍在日本国会发表的施政演说称，要将日中关系提升到一个新阶段。
In October of the same year, on the eve of his official visit to China, Abe delivered a speech at the Diet to raise Japan-China relations to a new stage.
2020年1月20日，安倍在日本国会发表演讲称，2020年是“建立日本外交新时代的关键一年”。
In a speech to the Diet on January 20, 2020, Abe called 2020 "a crucial year for a new era in Japanese diplomacy."
除了敦促韩国总统文在寅在新十年开始时建立建设性的日韩合作关系外，安倍还明确指出，要建立与新时代相关的“成熟”日中关系，“日本和中国都对地区和全球的和平与繁荣负有巨大的责任。
In addition to urging South Korean President Wen Jiabao to establish a constructive Japan-South Korea partnership at the start of the new decade, Abe has made it clear that, in order to establish a "mature" Japan-China relationship relevant to the new era, "both Japan and China bear a huge responsibility for regional and global peace and prosperity."
”高洪表示，在这样一个“暖春”背景下，面对新冠肺炎疫情，日本从政府到民间都表现出对中国的支持，也传达出对中日关系进一步改善的期待。
"Against such a" warm spring "backdrop, Japan has demonstrated its support for China from the government to the civil society and conveyed its expectation of further improvement in China-Japan relations, he said.
值班编辑：俞杨封面报道《新冠病毒——我们要付出多大代价》《围城之战——我们如何过关》《武汉攻坚——我们如何与疫情赛跑》《防控之辨——我们怎样科学应对》点击下图，一键下单。
On-duty editor: Yu Yang cover story "New Crown Virus - how much we pay for it" "The siege of the city - how do we cross the border" "Wuhan attack - how do we race with the epidemic?"
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
日本“以举国之力向中国提供支援”背后。
Japan "with national strength to provide support to China" behind.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "时事政治";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "中国新闻周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "日本“以举国之力向中国提供支援”背后";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "​“安倍采取了比特朗普政府更温和的态度”";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; quot; "Abe took a more conciliatory attitude than Trump's administration";
var title ="中国新闻周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by China News & quot;
