44名痊愈者26人复阳，专家建议出院标准要严，上海要查肛拭子。
44 recovered 26 Fuyang, experts recommend discharge criteria to be strict, Shanghai to check anus swab.
李想俣。
Minamata Lee.
中国新闻周刊                      。
China News Weekly.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
这里是《中国新闻周刊》掌门周刊君，影响有影响力的你。
This is the head of China News Weekly magazine, the influence of influential you.
和我一起拨开迷雾，追寻真相，守望时代。
Join me as we move through the fog, seek the truth and keep watch.
。
.
对于一种新发传染病我们宁可严格一点“我们的出院标准太宽了!”武汉大学人民医院呼吸与危重症医学科副主任医师、副教授张旃日前表示。
Chandrake Chandrake, Associate Professor and Associate Professor of Respiratory and Critical Medicine at Wuhan University's People's Hospital, said a few days ago.
最近，成都、武汉与广东等多地出现了出院患者复检呈阳性的情况，其中广东14%的出院患者都存在复检阳性现象。
Recently, in many places, such as Chengdu, Wuhan and Guangdong, patients returned positive for retesting. Of those discharged from Guangdong, 14 per cent were retested positive.
2月24日，张旃在“武大人民呼吸与危重症医学II科”微信公号上发文称，“我们在患者（本院医护人员组成）的配合下，将符合国家指南出院标准的患者共18人延迟出院，继续复查咽拭子核酸共至5次，发现13名患者第三次出现阳性结果。
"We delayed the release of a total of 18 patients who met the discharge criteria of the national guidelines, continued to review swabs five times and found 13 patients to have positive results for the third time," Zhang said in a statement published on February 24.
5名患者继续5次核酸检测结果均为阴性，随即办理出院。
Five patients continued to be tested negative for five nucleic acid tests and were discharged.
标本均为患者本人采集，避免每日不同的人员采集造成的假阴性结果。
The samples were collected by the patients themselves to avoid false negative results caused by different daily personnel collection.
5个连续阴性的患者既往也自己采集标本出现过阳性，所以不存在因为手法取样等原因造成的假阴性。
Five consecutive negative patients had previously tested positive for their own samples, so there were no false negatives due to, for example, manual sampling.
”武汉医生建议3次核酸阴性才能出院根据国家卫健委颁发的《新型冠状病毒肺炎诊疗方案（试行第六版）》，解除隔离和出院的标准有4条，其中第4条是：连续两次呼吸道标本核酸检测阴性（采样时间至少间隔1天）。
Wuhan doctors have suggested three times negative nucleic acid before being released from hospital under the new coronavirus pneumonia diagnosis and treatment programme (trial version 6) issued by the State Health Commission. There are four criteria for release from isolation and discharge.
然而，现在不少患者在出院2周后核酸复查都是阳性，对此，张旃指出，由于这些患者体内已经产生较高的新冠病毒抗体IgG，因此再次感染的可能性小。
However, as many patients now had positive nucleic acid reviews two weeks after discharge, Chandrake noted that the patients had a lower risk of reinfection because they had developed a high level of IgG, the new crown virus antibody.
为解决这一问题，张旃认为，应将诊疗方案里解除隔离和出院标准的第4条，修改为“连续3次呼吸道标本核酸检测阴性。
To address this problem, Chandrake decided that section 4 of the protocol, which lifted isolation and discharge criteria, should be amended to read "negative for three consecutive RNA tests."
”早在1月31日，张旃就发表文章称，在临床中她发现，符合国家诊疗方案解除隔离标准的患者，在出院后8天左右家属患病。
Chandrake published an article on Jan. 31 that in clinical practice, Chandrake found that patients who met the criteria for de-isolation under the National Diagnosis and Treatment Programme fell ill about eight days after their discharge.
而患者居家隔离期间，家属未再接触其他人。
During the period of isolation, the family did not have any contact with other people.
与此同时，武大人民医院首位确诊的医护人员出院复工后，再次进行病毒核酸检测，结果仍为阳性。
At the same time, the first confirmed hospital staff discharged from the hospital after returning to work, the virus nucleic acid testing again, the results remain positive.
了解到这一情况后，张旃立即向医院指挥部进行了汇报。
When Chandrake learned of this, Chandrake immediately reported the incident to the Hospital Command.
院方听取了张旃等一线医生的意见，要求被感染的院内医务人员2次咽拭子核酸阴性后继续隔离2周，且返岗前必须要进行病毒核酸复查，结果为阴性才能复工。
Chandrag and other frontline doctors advised Chandrake to remain in isolation for two weeks after negative swabs of nucleic acid from hospital staff, and to return to work only after negative viral nucleic acid reviews.
为持续研究这一问题，张旃对包括前述18人在内的44名两次阴性结果的医护人员新冠肺炎患者进行了多次病毒核酸检测。
In order to study the problem continuously, Zhang Qi conducted multiple viral nucleic acid tests on 44 medical personnel with double negative results, including the aforementioned 18.
在这44人中，有大约26人第三次核酸结果为阳性，概率非常高。
Of these 44, about 26 had a positive third nucleic acid outcome, with a very high probability.
“目前数据显示，有5位3次核酸检测阴性的患者，连续5次的检测均为阴性。
"Five patients who tested negative for three nucleic acid tests were negative five times in a row," he said.
即三次检测都是阴性的话，基本上可以确定不会再有阳性的可能。
That is, three tests are negative, basically can be sure that there will be no more positive possibility.
在概率上，患者在三次检测阴性后，再查出阳性的概率大大减小。
In terms of probability, patients who tested negative three times were significantly less likely to test positive.
目前可以确定的是，现行诊疗方案中的出院标准过于宽松，两次阴性后出现阳性的情况很多。
It is now possible to determine that the discharge criteria in the current programme are too lenient and that there are many cases of positive results after two negative tests.
”据此，张旃建议已出院病人在隔离点隔离两周后，应再到医院进行病毒核酸检测，出院后四周再进行一次复查。
Chandrag advised the discharged patients to go back to the hospital for a viral nucleic acid test two weeks after isolation, and for another four weeks after discharge.
张旃解释道，造成这种状况可能有两方面的原因。
Chandrake explained that there were two possible reasons for this.
一方面可能是试剂盒的问题，即出院前的检测结果为假阴性。
On the one hand, it may be a problem with the kit, that is, the test results before discharge are false negative.
另一个更可能的原因与病毒复制的周期有关。
Another, more likely, reason relates to the cycle of virus replication.
病人在好转过程中，病毒载量下降，会出现间断排毒的情况，所以可能造成间断期阴性，排毒时阳性的结果。
Patients in the process of improvement, viral load reduction, intermittent detoxification will occur, so that the interval negative, positive results of detoxification.
上海需测肛拭子张旃告诉记者，目前江苏、浙江、上海和广东实行出院标准比现行《诊疗方案》的解除隔离标准更加严格。
Chandrag told reporters that the discharge standards applied by Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Shanghai and Guangdong were stricter than the ones used in the current Diagnosis and Treatment Programme.
上海市公共卫生临床中心党委书记卢洪洲教授向《中国新闻周刊》介绍说，上海的患者在出院时，不仅要符合肺部渗出性病变明显吸收、临床症状改善和咽拭子病毒核酸检测阴性的标准，还要求出院患者的肛拭子（粪便）核酸检测为阴性。
When discharged from hospital, patients in Shanghai must not only meet the criteria of significant absorption of pulmonary exudative lesions, improvement of clinical symptoms and negative DNA test of pharyngeal swab (faecal) nucleic acid test negative for patients discharged from hospital, the party secretary of the Shanghai Public Health Clinical Centre, Professor Luhong Zhou, told China News Weekly.
他表示，由于上海的出院标准较《诊疗方案》更加严格，到目前为止，上海出院患者未出现一例核酸转阳。
He said that so far, none of the patients discharged from Shanghai had had nucleic acid transyang because of the stricter discharge standards than the Diagnostic and Therapeutic Scheme.
卢洪洲还指出，目前，上海将《诊疗方案》中出院患者第2周、第4周进行到医院随访、复诊的建议，改为出院后第1周、第3周进行复查。
Luhong Zhou also pointed out that at present, Shanghai will be discharged from the hospital in the second and fourth weeks to follow up the recommendations of the hospital, instead of the first week after the hospital, the third week after the review.
他解释说：“假如病人出院后复阳，那我们在第一周就能及时发现。
"If the patient is discharged from the hospital, we can see it in time in the first week," he explained.
尽管到目前为止，病人出院后复阳是否有传染性尚无定论，但倘若复阳患者还有传染性，就可能导致更多的传染，那我们为什么还要等到第二周再复查？对于一种新发传染病，我们宁可严格一点。
Although it is not clear whether Fuyang is contagious after discharge, if Fuyang patients are still contagious, why should we wait until the second week to review it? We'd rather be strict about a new infectious disease.
与其让患者两周后再复查，不如让患者第一周就回来复查，这样更放心一点。
Rather than having the patient review in two weeks, let the patient come back in the first week to make it easier.
”身为全国新冠肺炎医疗救治专家组感染病学组成员，卢洪洲称，“我相信第七版《诊疗方案》一定会考虑到关于肛拭子（粪便）核酸阳性的问题。
"I believe the seventh edition of the Diagnosis and Treatment Programme will definitely take into account the positive nucleic acid profile of anal swabs," said Lu Hongzhou, a member of the Infectious Diseases Group of the National Group of Specialists for the Treatment of New Crown Pneumonia.
随着我们对新发疾病的不断认识和循证医学的依据增多，《诊疗方案》会一版比一版更加结合实际，更科学。
As our understanding of emerging diseases continues to grow and the evidence-based medical evidence base increases, the Diagnostic and Therapeutic Programme will be more relevant and scientific than one edition.
对此问题，武汉同济医院呼吸与危重症医学科主任赵建平表示，“这是一个新病毒，当时我们制定诊疗标准的时候，借鉴了其他一些病毒的出院标准。
"This is a new virus," said Zhao Jianping, director of respiratory and critical medicine at Wuhan Tongji Hospital. "When we set the standards, we drew on the discharge standards of other viruses.
但这个病毒可能比我们之前认知的病毒更狡猾，所以清除起来可能没有我们预想的那么容易。
But the virus may be more cunning than we previously thought, so it may not be as easy to clean up as we expected.
两阴一阳、三阴一阳等情况说明病毒没有清除，之前的两次阴性不是真正的阴性，是假阴性，上呼吸道的咽拭子未必能反映病毒的实际情况。
Two Yin Yang, three Yin Yin Yang, and other conditions show that the virus has not been cleared, the previous two negative is not true negative, is false negative, the pharynx swab of upper respiratory tract may not reflect the actual situation of the virus.
”在2月25日，广东省的新闻发布会上，该省疾控中心副主任宋铁则解释说，“肺炎是一个迁延性比较长的疾病，有可能有的两三个月才可以恢复。
"Pneumonia is a relatively long-term disease that could take up to two to three months to recover," Song Tiewei, deputy director of the province's CDC, explained at a news conference in Guangdong province on Feb. 25.
我们观察新冠肺炎也可能会出现类似的情况。
A similar situation may arise when we look at new crown pneumonia.
从目前来看，一大部分人肺部的炎症是在吸收的过程中，还不能说是完全达到了临床痊愈，还可能会间歇性的存在排毒现象。
At present, a large proportion of human lung inflammation is in the process of absorption, can not be said to be fully clinical recovery, but also may intermittently exist detoxification.
”赵建平告诉《中国新闻周刊》，“假阴性可能受采样人员技术、疾病本身间断性排毒等因素的影响。
Zhao told China News Weekly: "False negative effects may be influenced by factors such as sampling techniques, intermittent detoxification of the disease itself.
目前武汉要求出院患者到隔离点进行两周的隔离，就是为了避免极少数病人在恢复过程中复阳造成传染的可能风险。
Wuhan currently requires patients discharged from the hospital to be quarantined for two weeks in order to avoid the possible risk of resuscitation during recovery.
核酸检测的次数越多就越保险，但也需要考虑可行性。
The more nucleic acid is tested, the safer it is, but feasibility also needs to be considered.
”值班编辑：俞杨封面报道《新冠病毒——我们要付出多大代价》《围城之战——我们如何过关》《武汉攻坚——我们如何与疫情赛跑》《防控之辨——我们怎样科学应对》点击下图，一键下单教你赚35000元奖励+1%佣金恒大网上卖房，2000元定套房，赚高额奖励，78折特大优惠，点击赚钱点击“阅读原文”了解更多详情。
"On duty editor: Yu Yang covers" The New Crown Virus - How we're going to pay "" The War of Siege - How We Go Through It "" Wuhan Tackling - How We Rise Against the Outbreak.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
44名痊愈者26人复阳，专家建议出院标准要严，上海要查肛拭子。
44 recovered 26 Fuyang, experts recommend discharge criteria to be strict, Shanghai to check anus swab.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "中国新闻周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "44名痊愈者26人复阳，专家建议出院标准要严，上海要查肛拭子";。
var msg _ title = & quot; 44 recovered with 26 Fuyang. Experts recommend strict standards for discharge.
var msg_desc = "对于一种新发传染病，我们宁可严格一点";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; for a newly emerging infectious disease.
var title ="中国新闻周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by China News & quot;
