湖北作协主席：武汉真实的生活快来了。
Hubei works association chairman: Wuhan real life is coming soon.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻记者 朱远祥对上千万的武汉人来说，新冠肺炎疫情是一次前所未有的考验。
For tens of millions of Wuhan people, the New Crown Pneumonia outbreak is an unprecedented test.
自2020年1月23日武汉“封城”以来，他们在“围城”里坚强地生存、抗争，湖北省作协主席、作家李修文也是亲历者中的一员。
Since the Wuhan Sealing City on January 23, 2020, they have made great efforts to survive and fight in the besieged city, and Li Xiwen, chairman and writer of the Hubei Provincial Cooperative Association, is one of those who have experienced it.
随着武汉疫情的逐渐好转，在下沉社区的过程中，李修文有一些身临其境的感受、观察和思考。
With the gradual improvement of Wuhan epidemic situation, in the process of sinking community, Li Xiwen has some personal experience, observation and thinking.
对于武汉这座城，他觉得“真实的生活正在到来的路上，我们必会再次真正拥有它”。
For Wuhan, he felt that "real life is coming, we will really have it again."
3月1日，李修文接受澎湃新闻（www.thepaper.cn)采访时介绍，疫情发生后，越来越多的写作者深入湖北抗疫一线，进行采访和创作。
On March 1, Li Xiuwen told reporters on the news (www.thepaper.cn) that after the outbreak, more and more writers went deep into Hubei province to conduct interviews and create works.
他认为，在灾难文学的创作中，作家应该更致力于提高写作的品质，“唯有这样，才能使之与死难者、战斗者的尊严相匹配”。
In his view, in the creation of disaster literature, writers should be more committed to improving the quality of writing, "only in this way, can it be matched with the victims, the dignity of the combatants.
湖北省作协主席李修文。
Chairman of Hubei Provincial Association Li Xiwen.
受访者 供图对话：“真实的生活正在到来的路上”澎湃新闻：从封城至今，您的个人生活和内心发生了什么变化？到今天为止，您出门了吗？李修文：我和所有在家隔离的武汉人都没有区别，这些天来百感交集，各种复杂的情绪都感受到了。
What has changed in your personal life and innermost feelings since the end of the cityLi Xiuwen: I am the same as all the Wuhan people who are isolated at home.These days, feelings are mixed and all kinds of complex emotions are felt.
作为一个写作者，我不仅关注自己的内心，也尽力体会别人的内心。
As a writer, I not only pay attention to my own heart, but also try to feel others' heart.
朋友们邻居们，那些认识和不认识的人，一个病人和一个非病人，他们的内心是不一样的，更不要说已经死去的人。
Friends, neighbors, acquaintances and strangers, a patient and a non-patient, all have different hearts, not to mention the dead.
我想，这也恰恰是作家这个职业的职责所在——感同身受、深思、理解，然后记住。
This, I suppose, is precisely what it is for the writer to do -- to empathize, to meditate, to understand, and then to remember.
因为要去社区下沉，所以我已经出门了。
I was going out because I was going down to the community.
目前，情况的确得到了根本性的好转。
There has indeed been a fundamental improvement.
这几天，因为我们协会有作家要正式介入到这场战役的采访中去，所以我还需要为了一些相关事务再出门。
These days, because our association has writers to be formally involved in this campaign interview, so I still need to go out for some related matters.
澎湃新闻：您下沉社区时看见人们的生活状态如何？经历这场疫情，您觉得武汉人的精神和心理有哪些变化？李修文：目前，我觉得我们已经从一种茫乱中镇定了下来，我所认识的大多数人都在积极地盘算和谋划着如何度过接下来的隔离期。
Li Xiwen: At present, I think we have recovered from a kind of chaos, and most of the people I know are actively plotting and plotting how to get through the next period of isolation.
我想我们和全国各地被隔离的人其实是一样的：期待着春暖花开，期待着正常的生活。
I think we're the same people isolated all over the country: looking forward to the spring, looking forward to a normal life.
但是，仍有为数不少的人陷落在他们的特殊困境中，必须看见他们、找到他们、帮助他们。
However, a significant number of people remain trapped in their particular plight and must be seen, located and assisted.
比如那些家里有人去世的人，外地滞留于此却无家可归的人，本身就身患重病的人、长期停药的人，除了政府要尽责，其实很多人也强烈意识到，我们对他人也负有责任。
For example, those whose families are dead, those who remain homeless, those who are themselves seriously ill, and those who have long stopped taking medicine, in addition to the government's responsibility, many people are acutely aware that we have responsibilities to others as well.
另外，以我自己所见，包括社区工作人员在内的抗疫一线人员，真的很辛苦。
In addition, I have seen myself, including community workers, the frontline personnel of the epidemic, really hard.
这么大的城市，这么高的管理难度，许多工作的落实，千头万绪地把担子压在了他们身上。
Such a large city, such a high degree of management difficulties, many of the implementation of the work, put a heavy burden on them.
都是人之父母，都是人之子女，这个时候，我们惟有继续撑住，继续管好自己，做好隔离和防护，才是真正的将心比心。
We are all human parents, are the children of human beings, this time, we can only continue to support, continue to take care of themselves, good isolation and protection, is the true empathy.
我就跟你说件小事吧。
I'll tell you a little thing.
前几天下沉的时候，我看见两个老太太站在自己的阳台上，戴着口罩隔空吵架，先是争执萝卜怎么做才好吃，后来发展到互相挖苦对方的厨艺，标准的武汉嫂子语气，大嗓门，说着说着又哈哈大笑。
The other day when I was sinking, I saw two old ladies standing on their balconies, quarrelling with each other over how to make radishes tasty, and then developing a sarcastic attitude towards each other's cooking.
当时我站在楼底下，听得鼻子发酸。
I was standing under the stairs and my nose was sore.
是啊，这就是最真实的生活，而真实的生活正在到来的路上，我们也必将再次真正地拥有它。
Yes, this is the most real life, and the real life is coming, we will really have it again.
澎湃新闻：可以谈谈您心目中的武汉人吗？李修文：武汉是一座充满了野气与蛮气的城市，武汉人身上独特而充沛的江湖气可以说是挥之不去，所谓“不服周”，其实不仅武汉人，整个湖北人，浓重的楚人气息仍然强烈地存在着。
Wuhan is a city full of wildness and barbarity, Wuhan people's unique and abundant body can be said to be lingering, the so-called "non-week," not only Wuhan people, the whole Hubei people, the heavy Chu breath still strongly exist.
从屈原到列祖列宗、英灵先烈，他们的心神和魂魄，都还活在今天的武汉人身上。
From Qu Yuan to Lezulizong and Yingling martyrs, their spirit and soul still live in today's Wuhan people.
在这次灾难中，不管是医护人员、政府公务员，还是作家和学者，都有不少人坚持说真话说实话。
In this disaster, whether medical personnel, civil servants, writers and scholars, there are many people who insist on telling the truth.
在这座城市里，永远都不会缺说真话说实话的人。
In this city there will never be a shortage of people who tell the truth.
灾难写作要更真诚也更真实澎湃新闻：疫情过后，您会对这场疫情进行写作吗？李修文：事实上已经开始了，我原本以为自己这么快就动笔是不可能的。
Do you want to write about the epidemic after the epidemic? Li Xiwen: Actually it has already begun. I thought it was impossible for me to start writing so soon.
所谓修辞立其诚，可能是因为最真实的命运来到了身边，对着什么去“立其诚”已经成为了一种直觉吧，所以也就开始写了。
The so-called rhetoric of sincerity, may be because the most real fate came to the side, facing what to "stand up for" has become a kind of intuitive bar, so began to write.
不过依然很困难，比如我跟不少当初在各种新媒体平台上发出求救信的人联系过，看看有没有什么办法使他们尽早入院治疗，同时，下意识地想以此为线索写下他们，但后来一打听，有些人已经去世了，每次听到这类消息，真是感到伤痛。
Still, it was difficult, for example, to contact many of the people who had sent messages on various new media platforms to see if there was any way to get them in there as soon as possible, while subconsciously trying to write them down as a clue, but when I asked if someone was dead, it hurt to hear about it.
另外，这一次的灾难，为什么极难书写？因为它不是一场突然到来又突然结束的灾难，而是在长时间内对人进行考验。
In addition, why is this disaster so difficult to write about? Because it is not a sudden and sudden disaster, but a test over a long period of time.
如果你不进行深入的思考和提炼，那么，它就很有可能和你的写作互相抵消了。
If you don't think deeply and refine, it's likely to cancel out your writing.
如果真是这样，死者的尊严何在？人与灾难进行对抗的尊严何在？写作的尊严何在？我们的一些作品为什么被诟病？就是没有更加仔细地去辨认，没有更加深入地去倾听，其结果就是不分青红皂白，任由一堆感叹号大行其道，没有严正的态度，没有一颗一起承受的心，没有相匹配的伦理和美学，那么，实际上，你的职责就并没有帮你去做值得做的事。
If that is the case, what is the dignity of the dead? Where is the dignity of man's confrontation with disaster? Where is the dignity of writing? Why is some of our writing criticized? It is indiscriminate, without a lot of exclamations, without a serious attitude, without a shared heart, without matching ethics and aesthetics, then in reality your duty does not help you to do what is worth doing.
澎湃新闻：您觉得，一个作家写灾难，或者说灾难里诞生的文学，其路径在哪里呢？李修文：杜甫之所以伟大，其中之一的原因是他的作品能“以诗证史”。
Pound News: What do you think is the path for a writer to write about disaster, or literature born out of a cataclysm? Li Xiwen: One of the reasons why Du Fu was great was that his works "bear witness to the history of poetry."
任何人都有写作的自由，但你应该面对自己的心、别人的心，更真诚也更真实地写作；你应该尽可能地增强你写作的有效性，尽可能地去触及灾难中人的精神境遇。
Everyone has the freedom to write, but you should face your own heart, other people's heart, and write more sincerely and truthfully; you should try your best to enhance the effectiveness of your writing and to touch as much of the human spirit as possible in a disaster.
你看去年大家公认的两部最好的长篇小说，《云中记》和《人，或所有的士兵》，一部写汶川地震，一部写香港沦陷，文本与历史都相隔了很长时间，但是，历史却在文本里得到了复活，死去的亡灵又一次在地底挪动了他们的踝骨。
You see the two best novels of the past year, Cloud in the Cloud and Man, or All the Soldiers, an earthquake in Wenchuan and the fall of Hong Kong. The text is a long time away from history, but history has been revived in the text, and the dead have once again moved their ankles under the ground.
对于灾难文学，我所理解的基本信条没有发生变化：写灾难的目的，就是要去反思灾难，从灾难中得到精神上的成长。
The basic tenet of disaster literature, as I understand it, has not changed: the purpose of writing disasters is to reflect on them and to grow spiritually from them.
当然，因作家自身气质相异，理解也会不同。
Of course, because the writer's temperament is different, understanding will also be different.
另外，此次灾难不同于抗震和抗洪，作家们其实极难深入现场。
In addition, unlike earthquake and flood-fighting, it is extremely difficult for writers to go deep into the scene.
然而作家们尤其是非虚构作家，如果不深入进去，可能陷入写作的疑难。
However, writers, especially non-fiction writers, can get bogged down in writing if they don't go deep into it.
据我所知，情况得到好转之后，已经有好几个优秀的非虚构作家展开了采访，我和湖北省作协的诸位同事也正在为这些作家做着服务。
As far as I know, several excellent non-fiction writers have been interviewed since the situation improved, and I and my colleagues in Hubei Province are also serving these writers.
灾难文学要与死难者、战斗者的尊严相匹配澎湃新闻：“封城”之初，您的一篇口述，讲述了亲历武汉疫情的感受，经媒体发表后，引起了广泛关注和共情，您想到过吗？李修文：我哪里想到什么反应啊，我就是想把自己看见的听见的说出来而已，顺便，也给关心着我们的人们报个信，告诉他们，我们好还是不好，如此而已；但是我想，它是真实的，那些天，我经常想起巴金的《随想录》，《随想录》为什么那么重要？因为巴金在说人话，说真话，说实话。
Catastrophe literature needs to match the dignity of the dead and the combatants: At the beginning of "The Seal of the City," your oral account of the experience of the Wuhan epidemic caused widespread concern and empathy after the publication of the media.
我无限敬仰鲁迅先生，但我就真的能成为鲁迅先生那样的人吗？恐怕绝无可能。
I admire Lu Xun infinitely, but can I really become the man like Mr. Lu Xun? I'm afraid it is impossible.
才华只有这么一点，见识只有这么一点。
There's only so much talent, and only so much insight.
但有一条路我们至少是可以经常提醒自己做到的，就是去说人话，说真话，说实话。
But there is at least one path we can always remind ourselves of, that is, to speak, to tell the truth, to tell the truth.
文章就在那里，是非曲直，一目了然。
The article is there, the merits, at a glance.
我接受采访也不是什么深思熟虑，我要求我自己，我看到了听到了什么，我说出的就是什么，糟糕就是糟糕，好起来就是好起来，写不出就是写不出，能够写了就去写，如此而已。
I asked myself, I saw what I heard, I said what I said, bad is bad, good is good is good, can't write, can write, that's all.
澎湃新闻：也有人说，在此次抗疫中，“十万作家集体缺席”，您同意吗？李修文：我当然不同意。
surging news: some people said that in this fight, "100,000 writers collectively absent," you agree? Li Xiuwen: Of course not.
别的省我不了解，湖北作家的情况我是了解的，我们的作家都是该坐着的时候坐着，该站起来的时候都站起来了，几代作家都写出了直面灾难、直面现实的好作品。
Other provinces I do not understand, Hubei writer's situation I know, our writers should be sitting when it is time to stand up to stand up, several generations of writers have written face-to-face disaster, face the reality of good works.
因为身处疫区的中心，我们的会员中有个特殊情形，就是好多作家都是全职的身在一线的医护人员、警察和社区工作者，所以，湖北省作协的自媒体每隔两天便会推出一批来自各领域、各地市州的作品；下属的《长江文艺》杂志和《长江丛刊》杂志更是定期推出精挑细选的诗歌作品，之所以精挑细选，是因为我们有足够多的优秀诗人，也有足够多的优秀作品。
Since many of our members are full-time frontline medical workers, police and community workers, the Hubei Provincial Association's "Changjiang Literature and Art" magazine and the "Yangtze River Series" magazine regularly produce carefully selected poems because we have enough excellent poets and enough excellent works.
作为一个作协主席，我想，在此期间，我的任务不是催促大家写作，因为命运正在驱使大家写作，这种时候，如何提高写作的品质，使之更与死难者、战斗者的尊严相匹配，才是更重要的。
As a co-chair, I think, in the meantime, my job is not to press you to write, because fate is driving you to write, and how to improve the quality of writing to match the dignity of the dead and the combatants is even more important.
所以说，我不同意什么“十万作家集体缺席”的说法，相反，在我们的作家中，战斗的有之，写作的有之，写出了好作品的更有之，我为湖北作家深感骄傲。
Therefore, I do not agree with what is called "collective absence of 100,000 writers." On the contrary, among our writers, there are some who fight, some who write good, and I am very proud of Hubei writers.
冷静看待新生的艰难，写出蕴藏其中的希望澎湃新闻：除了作家深入现场的难度，您觉得写出您心目中的好作品还面临一些什么困难？李修文：不光是写灾难，写任何题材的作品，想要写好总是很难的，我也并不觉得写灾难就一定要写出最好的作品，在不违背基本常识和伦理的情况下，再简单的作品都是令人尊敬的。
What difficulties do you find difficult to write about in order to write about any subject matter? Li Xiuwen: It is always difficult to write well on any subject, and I don't think it is necessary to write the best work without breaking the basic common sense and ethics.
事实上，之所以有一些写灾难的作品让人抵触，就是因为他们冒犯或违背了基本常识和伦理，大家绝不是在抵触一个创作者的热情，但难度也无处不在。
In fact, some of the disaster-writing works are objectionable because they offend or violate basic common sense and ethics, and they are by no means inimical to the passion of a creator, but difficult everywhere.
这次灾难刚开始的时候，许多人都在重读《鼠疫》，我也重读了一遍。
When this disaster began, many people were re-reading Plague, and I re-read it.
通过《鼠疫》，我们得到了两个很醒目的结论，第一，跟鼠疫斗争的唯一方式就是诚实；第二，人的内心里值得赞赏的东西总归应该比唾弃的多。
In Plague, we draw two striking conclusions. First, the only way to fight against plague is to be honest; secondly, there should always be more to be admired in one's heart than to be despised.
当然，绝大多数作家终生都可能无法写出这样的书，可我们总应该知道，什么才是值得我们为之努力的。
Of course, most writers may not be able to write such a book all their lives, but we should always know what is worth working for.
澎湃新闻：为什么您会觉得书写灾难的时候写作品质会尤其重要呢？李修文：目前发生在武汉的事，是最新最典型的中国故事。
Why do you think the quality of writing is especially important in times of disaster? Li Xiwen: What is happening in Wuhan is the latest and most typical Chinese story.
我觉得现在的武汉人可以叫做“新武汉人”了，因为这次疫情，许多武汉人的体内流淌着他人的血，许多武汉人的热泪里也流淌着他人的热泪，某种程度上，这便是新人的诞生。
Wuhan people can now be called "new Wuhan people," because this outbreak, many Wuhan people's body flow other people's blood, many Wuhan people's tears also shed other people's tears, to some extent, this is the birth of new people.
新人诞生以后不哭泣吗？不嗷嗷待哺吗？如果我们不冷静地看待这个诞生的艰难，那么我们怎么可能写出蕴藏在其中的希望？“要改变我们的语言，首先改变我们的生活”，很多人都认为这句老话是有道理的。
Do not cry after the birth of a new person? Do not starve? If we do not take a sober look at the birth of this difficult, then how can we write the hidden hope? "change our language, change our lives first," many people think is justified.
现在，生活已经改变了，你就得要有这个决心去随之改变你的语言，通过这种改变，文学的声音才得以更加有效、有力和正派，这也是听从了灾难本身带给我们的教训。
Now that life has changed, you have to have the determination to change your language accordingly, and through this change the voice of literature becomes more effective, powerful and decent, and that is the lesson of the disaster itself.
澎湃新闻：接下来，您将如何度过封闭期？对于现在的武汉，您想说些什么？李修文：我正在帮省内的一家出版社主编一本《抗疫书简》，这段时间一直在看稿和准备序言。
Li Xiuwen: I'm helping the editor-in-chief of a publishing house in the province with a copy of Anti-epidemic Booklet, and I have been reading and preparing a preface all the time.
这本书的作者，既有在家隔离的普通人，也有奋战在抗疫一线上的医护人员和社区工作者。
The book's authors range from ordinary people isolated at home to health care workers and community workers fighting the epidemic on the front lines.
今后我还要继续下沉社区，尽可能做好力所能及的事情，也要和省作协的诸位同事一起，为那些深入现场的非虚构作家们做好服务。
I will continue to sink community, do what I can, and work with my provincial colleagues to serve the non-fiction writers who are on the scene.
对于现在的武汉，一如我此前所说——真实的生活正在到来的路上，我们也必将再次真正地拥有它！戳这里进入“全国新型冠状病毒感染病例实时地图”↓↓↓本期编辑 常琛推荐阅读。
For Wuhan now, as I said before, and as real life is on its way, we must also truly own it again! Pound here into Dell Computers, a real-time map of new cases of coronavirus infection in the country.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
湖北作协主席：武汉真实的生活快来了。
Hubei works association chairman: Wuhan real life is coming soon.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "湖北作协主席：武汉真实的生活快来了";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; Hubei & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & Wuhan's real life.
var msg_desc = "“真实的生活正在到来的路上”";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; real life on the way. "
title: '湖北：监狱、看守所原则上只进不出',。
Hubei: Not at all in prison or detention centre.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '一名空乘确诊，5名复工人员被隔离',。
A flight attendant was diagnosed and five reinstated workers were quarantined with service.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '3省5个监狱共确诊555例，司法部谈疫情细节漏洞',。
Ritle: & apos; 555 cases were diagnosed in five prisons in three provinces. & nbsp; & # 160; & # 45; & Justice & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
