国内景区陆续开放，现在去玩安全吗？。
Domestic scenic spots are opening up, now to play safe?
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻记者 钱成熙2月23日上午，一段江西萍乡武功山大量游客聚集的视频引发了许多关注。
Pingxiang, Jiangxi Province, February 23 morning, a large number of tourists gathered in Pingxiang WuGongshan video attracted a lot of attention.
视频中，武功山景区内游人如织，人挨人排着队。
In the video, Wu Gongshan scenic spot visitors such as weaving, people were lined up.
当天下午，武功山管委会紧急发表通告，表示从24日起，从24日起，景区下调人数限流至3000人，关闭线下售票窗口，请游客在线上预定购票，达到3000张上限即关停网上售票。
Wu Gongshan Management Committee issued an emergency notice in the afternoon, saying that from 24, starting from 24, the number of people downflow to 3000 people, closed the offline ticket window, invited visitors online to book tickets, up to the 3000 ceiling shut down online.
游客排队买票这正是目前景区开放情况的一个缩影。
Visitors line up to buy tickets, which is a microcosm of the current landscape opening.
春日渐近，梅花、早樱已经次第开放，几乎足不出户一个月后，许多人的心里都蠢蠢欲动。
As the spring approached, plum blossoms and early blossoms opened for the first time, almost a month after leaving their homes, many people's hearts were restless.
钟南山在接受央视采访时所说的，“开放景区我是觉得很必要。
"I think it's necessary to open up the scenic spots," Zhong said in an interview with CCTV.
景区本来就是个开阔的、空气新鲜的地方……对人们的健康心理都有好的作用。
The scenic spot is originally an open, fresh air place... good for people's health and psychology.
”也给大家打了一针强心剂。
"It was also a shot in the arm.
从2月20日左右开始，各地都陆续传来了景区恢复开放的消息。
Beginning around February 20, news of the restoration of the scenic spot began to arrive in various places.
到2月28日为止，全国已有超过300个景区开放。
By 28 February, more than 300 sites had been opened throughout the country.
针对这个问题，在2月26日召开的国务院联防联控机制发布会上，文化和旅游部市场管理司司长刘克智表示，旅游景区具有“人员聚集性强，人员流动性大”的特点，旅游景区的恢复开放，应当坚持分区分级的原则，对旅游景区开放的条件和必要性进行评估，不宜搞一刀切。
In response to this issue, Liu Kezhi, Director of the Marketing Management Department of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, said at a press conference held on February 26 that the tourism scenic spot was characterized by "strong personnel aggregation and high mobility.
疫情高风险地区旅游景区暂缓开放，中风险低风险地区旅游景区由当地党委政府来决定是否开放。
Tourist attractions in high-risk areas are put on hold, while those in low-risk and medium-risk areas are left to local Party committees to decide whether or not to open.
在景区恢复开放之初，许多地方都出现了“扎堆”现象，除了文章开头提到的武功山景区外，上个周六也就是2月22日，刚刚开放的北京香山公园甚至还发生了拥堵。
In the early days of the restoration of the scenic spot, there were "bundles" in many places. Besides the Wu Gongshan area mentioned at the beginning of the article, there was even a traffic jam in the newly opened Xiangshan Park in Beijing last Saturday, Feb. 22.
2月24日，香山公园关闭了除香泉环岛停车场以外的所有所有停车场，实施游客限流。
On February 24, Xiang Shan Park closed all parking lots except for the Xiangquan roundabout parking lot, imposing restrictions on visitors.
率先于2月19日开放的杭州西湖景区也在一天内迎来了超过5000人。
The Hangzhou West Lake Scenic Area, which opened on February 19, also welcomed more than 5,000 people in a single day.
“南宁疫情800人扎堆赏山樱花”还登上了微博热搜，少数游客不戴口罩游览的照片也广为传播。
"Nanning 800 people set up a pile of cherry blossoms" also boarded Weibo hot, a few visitors do not wear masks tour photos widely disseminated.
断桥迎来疫情后首批游客此前，“景区毕竟是企业，需要生存发展，在做好疫情防控基础上稳步复工，也是合情合理的。
Broken Bridge ushered in the first tourists after the epidemic, "after all, scenic spots are enterprises, need to survive and development, in the prevention and control of the disease based on a steady return to work, is reasonable.
”中国旅游研究院景区研究专家战冬梅说。
"said Zhan Dongmei, an expert on scenic spots at the China Tourism Institute.
不过，“景区要采取谨慎态度，根据所在地区防疫实际，完善防疫制度体系，以保证员工和游客安全为必要开放前提。
However, the scenic spot should adopt a cautious attitude and improve the epidemic prevention system according to the actual epidemic prevention situation in the region, so as to ensure the safety of staff and tourists as a necessary prerequisite for opening up.
”这种情况下，旅游专家、中国未来研究会旅游分会副会长刘思敏通过澎湃新闻建议，“景区做好消毒的工作，游客也要做好自身的防护。
Liu Simin, a travel expert and vice-president of the China Future Research Council's Tourism Branch, suggested through the roar of the news: "Do a good job of disinfecting the scenic spots, and tourists should also make their own protection.
”他认为，景区需要谨慎判断当地形式，因地制宜地开放景点。
He said scenic spots needed to be carefully judged against local conditions and opened up to local conditions.
他不建议室内封闭景区如博物馆等过早开放，室外的自然景区可以循序渐进地开放。
He does not suggest that closed indoor areas such as museums open prematurely, outdoor natural scenic areas can be opened step by step.
此外，他提出，在游览管理方面，应采取分时段、间隔性办法安排游客入园，控制游客数量，落实实名登记，积极利用大数据和智能手段，做好游客信息动态监测，并加强景区巡查力度。
In addition, he suggested that in the area of tour management, a time-interval approach should be adopted to arrange tourist arrivals, control the number of tourists, implement real-name registration, actively use big data and intelligent means, and improve the dynamic monitoring of tourist information, as well as strengthen the inspection of scenic spots.
已开放景区如何防护和限流那么目前，各景区的开放情况和限流措施如何呢？2月27日，北京颐和园开始实施分时入园、预约购票措施。
How to Protect and Limit Current Attractions How to Protect and Limit Current Attractions What are the opening conditions and current restrictions in different scenic spots? On February 27, the Summer Palace in Beijing began implementing time-sharing and reservation measures.
其中要求，购票游客至少提前一天通过“颐和园”官方微信公众号进行预约，购票成功的游客需持身份证原件验证入园。
Ticket buyers are required to make an appointment at least one day in advance via the official Micromail public sign of the Summer Palace. Successful visitors are required to present their original ID cards for verification.
网络预约分为上下午两个时间段，按照不超过瞬时承载量30%进行游客量管控。
Internet booking is divided into two hours in the morning and afternoon, according to the carrying capacity of up to 30% of the control.
已经关闭的园中园景点、封闭院落、堂食餐点保持关闭现状。
Closed garden sites, closed compounds, parlours remain closed.
游客入园时，配合体温测量，佩戴口罩，分散游览，保持1.5米以上的安全间距。
When visitors enter the park, with temperature measurement, wearing masks, scattered excursions, to maintain a safe distance of more than 1.5 meters.
园内活动不聚集，不扎堆，不集中锻炼健身，不随地吐痰。
Park activities do not gather, do not pile up, do not focus on exercise, do not spit everywhere.
北京市公园管理中心新闻发言人张亚红也表示，天气转暖后居民出行意愿上升。
Zhang Yahong, a spokesman for the Beijing Park Management Center, also said residents were more willing to travel as the weather warmed.
不过她建议大家再坚持一段时间，等到防控达到阶段性成果，会逐步恢复公园游览。
However, she advised people to stick to it for a while, until the prevention and control phase results, will gradually restore the park tour.
同天开放的南岳衡山景区，则要求游客们在大巴上“隔位就坐”，此外，游客还需要经过红外热成像监控、人员消毒、信息登记等一系列严格的防控流程后，才能顺利进入景区。
The Hengshan area, which opens on the same day, requires visitors to "sit next to each other" on buses. Visitors are also required to go through a series of strict control procedures, including infrared thermal imaging, personnel disinfection and information registration.
衡山景区按照日接待量不超过景区最大承载量的50%、瞬间流量不超过最大瞬时流量的30%来控制人流，每天还对公共区域进行4次消毒，对游客高接触、高密集的区域每2小时消1次毒。
The Hengshan scenic spot controls the flow of people according to the daily amount of reception does not exceed 50% of the maximum carrying capacity of the scenic area, the instantaneous flow does not exceed 30% of the maximum instantaneous flow.
接驳巴士上分开就坐武陵源景区在27日恢复开放的首日共接待了454位客人。
On the opening day of the opening day, 454 guests from the Wulingyuan scenic area were received separately on the feeder buses.
开放初期，武陵源实施“分时预约”制度，恢复开放初期时间为每天8:30-16:00，规定单日接待量不超过1万人，所有进山游客实行入园必检和限流游览，景区交通运输工具隔位乘坐、客容量减半，百龙天梯不超过30%。
In the early days of opening, Wulingyuan implemented a "time-sharing appointment" system, with an initial opening time of 8: 30-16: 00 per day.
景区里还成立了135人的疫情防控引导员队伍，为游客提供防疫“管家”式服务。
The scenic spot also set up 135 people in the team of disease prevention and control guides, to provide visitors with epidemic prevention "housekeeper" type services.
“本区域已消毒”告示出现在售票窗口、检票口、自动取票机、厕所等公共设施区域。
"Sterilized areas" signs appear at ticket windows, ticket outlets, automatic teller machines, toilets and other public facilities.
游客服务中心还有酒精棉球、消毒液等防疫物品供游客免费使用。
Visitors service center also has alcohol cotton ball, disinfectant and other epidemic prevention items for free use by tourists.
陕西要求开放的室外景区必须对游客测体温、扫健康码，公用设施日消毒不少于4次，按日载量30%限流，提出了开放30条措施。
The open outdoor scenic spots in Shaanxi Province are required to take temperature and clean the health code, disinfect public facilities not less than 4 times a day, carry 30% of the daily flow limit, and propose 30 measures to open it up.
还有一些景区则推出优惠措施。
Other scenic spots offer preferential measures.
在石窟景区中率先开放的龙门石窟已于2月24日开放，至6月30日为止实行门票半价优惠。
The Longmen Grottoes, the first of its kind to open in the caves, were opened on Feb. 24 and offer half-price tickets until June 30.
丽江古城和玉龙雪山已于2月20日面向本省游客和全国非重点疫区游客有限开放，玉龙雪山实行门票半价。
Lijiang Old Town and Yulong Snow Mountain have been opened to tourists and non-key affected areas in the province on Feb. 20.
2月29日到3月29日，西安城墙景区和大唐芙蓉园景区免费对外开放。
From Feb. 29 to March 29, Xi'an Walls Scenic Area and Great Tang Fu Rong Garden are open to the public free of charge.
贵州省黔西南州景区景点从2月23日起到3月31日也全部免费开放。
Guizhou Southwest Guizhou scenic spots from February 23 to March 31 are also free of charge.
景区游客缓慢回流虽然在景区刚恢复开放时出现了游客“扎堆”现象，但目前大部分开放景区的游客回流情况可称相当理性，黄山开放首日仅有一位游客包场的新闻在社交网络上广为传播，让许多人“羡慕不已”。
Although tourists "pile up" in scenic spots just after the reopening of the area, the current flow of tourists in most open areas can be described as reasonable, Huangshan only the first day of the news on the network of visitors, many people "envy.
而许多景区的游客数量在每日数百人左右的基础上缓慢增长。
The number of tourists in many scenic spots is growing slowly on the order of a few hundred a day.
婺源油菜花季到来，往年花田已是人山人海2月23日开放的黄果树瀑布景区，至2月26日，景区每日接待游客数分别为26、135、229、492人。
As the Wuyuan oilflower season approached, the Huangguoshu Falls scenic spot, which opened on Feb. 23, was visited by 26, 135, 229 and 492 visitors each day.
婺源95%的景区已开放，油菜花季也已到来，不过相对于过去花季人山人海的景象，如今的婺源可称清净，日均接待量约为2000人。
Wuyuan is now open 95% of the scenic spots and the rape season has arrived. However, compared with the crowd in the past, Wuyuan is now a clean place with an average daily reception of about 2,000 people.
景区负责人预计，按照这一趋势，预计今年三、四月份婺源也不会有太多客流量。
According to this trend, Wuyuan is not expected to have much traffic in March or April this year.
黄果树瀑布游人寥寥丽江古城管委会告诉媒体，景区内餐饮、民宿商户在严格执行疫情期间措施的前提下，可以开门营业，而酒吧、历史文化展示馆及文化院落等人员密集场所暂不恢复营业和开放。
Huangguoshu waterfall visitors few Lijiang ancient city management committee told the media that restaurants and residential shops in the scenic area can open their doors under the premise of strict enforcement of the measures taken during the epidemic period, while crowded places such as bars, historical and cultural exhibitions and cultural complexes are temporarily closed and closed.
青海湖在开放首日2月26日迎来了56名游客，景区说，这个数字已经“超过了预期”。
Qinghai Lake, which opened on February 26 with 56 visitors, said the number had "exceeded expectations."
刘思敏表示，现阶段游客不多有几方面原因，一是疫情还未过去，大众尚未做好出门游玩的准备。
Liu said there are several reasons for the low number of tourists at this stage, one is that the epidemic is not over, the general public is not ready to go out to play.
二是景区的配套设施尚未开放，室内景点关闭，许多室外景点的短驳车等服务也未恢复，同样没有开放的还有游客们热衷的小吃等餐饮娱乐设施。
Second, the scenic area has not yet opened the ancillary facilities, indoor attractions closed, many outdoor attractions such as short barges have not been restored, as well as tourists like snacks and entertainment facilities.
三月起更多景区开放，谨防“旅游性感染”更多景区将在3月初集中开放。
More scenic spots will be opened in March. Beware of "tourist infections." More scenic spots will be opened in early March.
如云冈石窟发布公告于3月1日开放，但暂不接待团队游客。
For example, the announcement of the Yungang Grottoes opened on March 1, but there are no group visitors.
此外还有乔家大院、大明山景区、张掖七彩丹霞景区等，都将在3月1日开放。
In addition, Qiaojia Compound, Daimingshan Scenic Area, Zhang Yue Seven Colorful Danxia Scenic Area, will be opened on March 1.
2月25日，文旅部印发了《公共图书馆、文化馆（站）恢复开放工作指南》，就公共文化场馆恢复开放提出具体指导意见。
On 25 February, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism issued a guide for the reopening of public libraries and cultural centres (stations), providing specific guidance on the reopening of public cultural venues.
提出坚持分区分级，不搞“一刀切”。
Put forward to insist on zoning classification, not "one size fits all."
疫情高风险地区继续闭馆，中低风险地区恢复开馆工作，由当地党委政府决定。
Areas with high risk of epidemic disease remain closed, and those with low or moderate risks should be reopened by the local Party committee government.
国家文物局也表示，博物馆等场所对低风险区，经地方政府批准后可有序恢复开放。
The State Administration of Cultural Relics also said that low-risk areas, such as museums, can be reopened in an orderly manner with the approval of local governments.
对中风险区，室外露天场所可逐步恢复开放，室内封闭展馆、展厅等区域原则上暂不开放，对高风险区，暂不开放。
For medium-risk areas, outdoor open spaces can be gradually reopened, indoor closed exhibition hall, exhibition hall and other areas are temporarily closed in principle, for high-risk areas, temporarily closed.
中低风险区的开放单位原则上均不接待团体参观。
In principle, open units in low- and medium-risk areas are not open to group visits.
不过，在逐步解封的声音中，也有反对者，比如世界旅游城市联合会专家委员会副主任张辉和中国旅游改革发展咨询委员会委员孙小荣便认为，当下疫情研究尚不明朗，旅游消费并非国民生活必须性消费，人群聚集反而提升了疫情反扑的潜在风险，一旦出现“旅游性感染”，只怕得不偿失。
However, among the voices that are gradually being unsealed, such as Zhang Hui, deputy director of the expert committee of the World Tourism Organization and Sun Xiaorong, a member of the China Tourism Reform and Development Advisory Committee, said the current epidemic was unclear.
确实，对于旅行者来说，独享的美景、优惠的价格带来的吸引力是不言而喻的，但看不见的风险也不可小觑。
Indeed, for travelers, the attraction of exclusive beauty and favorable prices is self-evident, but the unseen risks are not to be underestimated.
评估风险、审慎出行，是每一个人在出行之前所应该做的。
Risk assessment and prudent travel are what everyone should do before they travel.
本期编辑 常琛推荐阅读。
This issue editor Chang Chen recommended reading.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
国内景区陆续开放，现在去玩安全吗？。
Domestic scenic spots are opening up, now to play safe?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "国内景区陆续开放，现在去玩安全吗？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Now safe to play?
var msg_desc = "钟南山在接受央视采访时所说的，“开放景区我是觉得很必要。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; in an interview with CCTV.
景区本来就是个开阔的、空气新鲜的地方……对人们的健康心理都有好的作用。
The scenic spot is originally an open, fresh air place... good for people's health and psychology.
”";。
";;
title: '湖北：监狱、看守所原则上只进不出',。
Hubei: Not at all in prison or detention centre.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '一名空乘确诊，5名复工人员被隔离',。
A flight attendant was diagnosed and five reinstated workers were quarantined with service.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '3省5个监狱共确诊555例，司法部谈疫情细节漏洞',。
Ritle: & apos; 555 cases were diagnosed in five prisons in three provinces. & nbsp; & # 160; & # 45; & Justice & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
