“华南海鲜市场或为二次传播”，“病毒猎手”接受杨澜专访。
"South China Seafood Market or Secondary Transmission", "Virus Hunter" accepted Yang Lan's interview.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
中国新闻网日前，被誉为世界最知名“病毒猎手”的美国哥伦比亚大学公共卫生学院感染与免疫中心主任、传染病学专家利普金教授(Walter Ian Lipkin)，在美国哥伦比亚大学接受了知名主持人杨澜的专访，解答了有关新冠肺炎疫情的相关问题。
Walter Ian Lipkin, director of the Infection and Immunization Center at Columbia University's School of Public Health and a specialist in infectious diseases, who has been hailed as the world's best-known viral hunter, gave an interview to Yang Lan at Columbia University to answer questions about the outbreak of pneumonia in the New Crown.
以下为本次专访的文字实录：钟南山专注而敏锐我被指派了特定任务早在2003年，利普金教授应邀来到北京协助中国抗击SARS（非典），并将携带的1万个检测试剂盒赠与了中国，他与钟南山院士也因此结识并成为朋友。
As early as 2003, Professor Lipkin was invited to Beijing to help fight the SARS epidemic in China, where he and academician Zhong Nan Shan met and became friends.
今年1月28日，利普金教授再次应邀来到中国，与政府高级官员和专家一起探讨疫情。
On January 28 this year, Professor Lipkin was again invited to China to discuss the outbreak with senior government officials and experts.
由于时间紧迫，他和老朋友钟南山院士只能在机场短暂会面。
Due to time constraints, he and his old friend, Academician Zhong Nan Shan, could only meet briefly at the airport.
杨澜（以下简称Y）：（在机场）你发现他（钟南山）是什么样的心态？你们之间有什么交流？Lipkin（以下简称L）：我从2003年就认识了钟南山，还有一张当时我们坐在一起的照片。
Yang Lan (at the airport): What do you find out about him (Zhong Nan Shan)? What kind of communication do you have? Lipkin (hereinafter referred to as "Lipkin"): I have known Zhong Nan Shan since 2003, and a picture of us sitting together.
将近20年后，又有一张我们在机场的照片。
Nearly 20 years later, there was another picture of us at the airport.
很明显，我们都有所改变，但我们的友谊依旧，我们在智力方面也都还保持着（那时的水平）。
Obviously, we have all changed, but our friendship remains the same, and we remain (at that level) intellectually.
钟南山是一个非常专注和敏锐的人，即使已到84岁高龄。
Zhong Nan Shan is a very attentive and sensitive person, even at the age of 84.
他的英语很流利，这让我和他的交流变得非常容易。
His fluency in English made it very easy for me to communicate with him.
Y：他对这次疫情的形势是如何评估的？你们一起经历过非典，这次的情况有多严重？L：他很现实，也很务实。
J: What's his assessment of the epidemic? You've been through SARS together, and how serious is the situation this timeL: He's realistic and pragmatic.
我们讨论了可能用于治疗重症病例的各种方法，无论是药物治疗还是血浆疗法。
We discussed possible approaches to the treatment of severe cases, be they drug therapy or plasma therapy.
他非常严格地在寻求方法以得出准确的诊断，（这些诊断）是能够指导具体实践的。
He is very strict in finding ways to make accurate diagnoses that can guide specific practice.
其中一件事就是能够在环境中准确地找到病毒的位置，进而能够搜索环境，并找出病毒在物体表面能存活多长时间，比如地铁扶手，栏杆，门把手等，这些是我们需要知道的事情。
One thing is to be able to locate the virus accurately in the environment, and then search for the environment and find out how long the virus can survive on the surface, such as subway rails, rails, doorknobs, and so on.
如果病毒不是通过咳嗽或打喷嚏传播，你就能找到一个缓解的方法来降低传播风险。
If the virus isn't spread by coughing or sneezing, you can find a way to reduce the risk of transmission.
我们还在努力。
We're still trying.
应该说，他（钟南山）还在努力，以确定一个人在多长时间内具有传染性、在什么时候具有传染性、谁最具有传染性，以及病毒是否还存在多样的变异性，防止更多的人处于传播疾病的高风险中。
It should be said that he (Zhong Nan Shan) is still trying to determine how long a person is contagious, when he is infectious, who is the most infectious, and whether the virus is still diverse enough to prevent more people from being at high risk of spreading disease.
还有，为什么暴露在同样的环境中，有些人患上了严重疾病，而其他人根本没有任何症状？我和他讨论了所有这些方面以及一些不足，当然还有其它问题。
And why are some people suffering from serious illnesses and others without any symptoms when exposed to the same conditions? I discussed all these aspects with him, as well as some of the shortcomings and, of course, others.
Y：在您被隔离期间，你们有没有联系过？（2月初，利普金教授从中国返回美国后，进行了14天的自我隔离。
Y: Did you contact Professor Lipkin during your isolation (Professor Lipkin went back to the United States from China in early February and spent 14 days isolating himself)
在这期间，他的工作地点转移到了自己家的地下室。
During this time, his workplace was transferred to the basement of his home.
）L：没有。
M: No, I didn't.
你要知道，我是被指派了特定任务的，而我还没有完成。
You know, I was assigned a specific assignment, and I haven't finished yet.
当我完成了答应他要去做的事后，我会再和他联系。
I'll get back to him when I've done what I promised him to do.
他现在非常忙，除了要设法处理疫情之外，还要与世卫组织、政府官员和其他人进行沟通，所以我不想增加他的负担。
He is very busy right now and, in addition to trying to deal with the epidemic, he has to communicate with WHO, government officials and others, so I don't want to burden him.
没有任何证据表明新冠病毒是人造的华南海鲜市场可能是二次传播Y：如何描述你的任务？L：我的使命是做我们最擅长、且几十年来一直在做的事情，就是试图找到一些线索，获得“病毒情报”，如病毒从何处来，它是如何引起疾病的等等。
There is no evidence that the new cap virus is an artificial South China seafood market that could be a secondary spread Y: My mission is to do what we do best, and have been doing for decades, is to try to find clues about where the virus comes from and how it causes it, and so on.
Y：那么，你对这种病毒的推理是什么？L：如果你想知道病毒从何而来，就要看它的基因序列，看看它与其他已知病毒有多相似。
M: If you want to know where the virus came from, you need to look at its genetic sequence to see how similar it is to other known viruses.
这种病毒与上个世纪90年代中期武汉病毒研究所发现的一种病毒最为相似，就其与该蝙蝠病毒的同一性百分比而言，可能是一种蝙蝠病毒。
The virus is the most similar to one found in Wuhan virus research in the mid-1990s, and may be a bat virus in terms of the same percentage as the bat virus.
这种病毒在基因结构的重要区域存在差异，表明在它实现人与人之间的有效传播之前，已经适应了人类或类似于人类的物种，并被允许以这种方式移动。
The virus differs in important areas of genetic structure, suggesting that it has adapted to humans or human-like species and has been allowed to move in this way before it can spread effectively from person to person.
因此，我们认为这种病毒存在于蝙蝠体内，可能与动物接触，可能在野生动物市场，也可能是被感染的人类。
Therefore, we believe that the virus is present in bats, may come into contact with animals, may be in wildlife markets, or may be infected with humans.
病毒在不断生长过程中适应了其他物种。
The virus adapts to other species as it grows.
当它变得能够导致人类传播时，传播链中的下一个环节就发生了，它完成了从蝙蝠到人类的跳跃。
As it becomes capable of causing humans to spread, the next link in the communication chain takes place, completing the leap from bat to human.
现在它是一种人类病毒，不是蝙蝠病毒。
It is now a human virus, not a bat virus.
我和我的同事们认为，没有任何证据表明这种病毒是在武汉病毒研究所里制造的，或者是偶然释放的，我们认为它产生于自然界。
According to my colleagues and I, there is no evidence that the virus was created at Wuhan Institute of Virus Research, or released accidentally, and we believe that it originated in nature.
Y：您的意思是，当我们在武汉华南海鲜市场发现这种病毒时，它就已经适应人类了。
Y: You mean when we found the virus in Wuhan South China Seafood Market, it was adapted to humans.
L：很可能这种病毒已经在武汉甚至湖北地区传播了，与海鲜市场的联系并不那么直接，也许在武汉华南海鲜市场内发生的是二次传播，很可能这种病毒在早些时候就已经开始扩散了。
L: The virus may have spread in Wuhan or even in Hubei Province, but it may not be directly related to the seafood market. Perhaps secondary transmission occurred in Wuhan South China Seafood Market.
新冠病毒有可能与人类共存但还是在可掌控范围内Y：您认为（疫情）未来走向如何？有人说，也许经历了人与人之间的几轮传播，病毒毒力正在降低。
New Crown Virus may coexist with humans but is within control Y: What do you think will happen in the future? Some say the virus is becoming less virulent after several rounds of human-to-human transmission.
因此，它将成为另一种威胁性更小的季节性流感，这会是未来的发展方向吗？L：很难知道病毒首次出现时会发生什么，它和人类一样是有生活方式的。
So will it be another, less threatening seasonal flu, the way to go? L: It's hard to know what happens when the virus first comes along.
但我认为，如果没有某种疫苗，它很可能会像流感一样，每年都与我们在一起。
But I think that without some kind of vaccine, it would probably be with us every year like the flu.
Y：这种病毒会不会随着温度上升而慢慢消亡，或者它是不是具有季节性？L：我认为这也是一种可能。
M: The virus can die out as the temperature rises, or is it seasonal? L: I think it's a possibility, too.
由于室内的环境比较封闭，人与人之间的呼吸比较靠近，而且空气相对污浊，病毒可以依附的漂浮物也比较多。
Because the indoor environment is relatively closed, people breathe closer to each other, and the air is relatively dirty, viruses can attach to more floating objects.
随着温度的升高，人们开始减少呆在室内的时间，减少了交叉传播的机会，病毒的传播距离也不会太远，那么我们将看到传染性的下降。
As temperatures rise, people start spending less time indoors, fewer opportunities for cross-transmission, and viruses do not travel far enough to see a decline in infectivity.
但在一些地区的传播率下降时，另一些地区的传播率可能就会上升。
However, when transmission rates decline in some areas, they are likely to increase in others.
就像我们有流感季节一样，它可能会反复出现。
Just as we have the flu season, it can happen again and again.
Y：所以下一个冬天它可能会再回来？L：可以想象，它可能会再次回来。
Y: So next winter it might come back again? L: I can imagine that it might come back again.
我强烈支持疫苗投资是降低发病率和死亡率的一种方式。
I strongly support investment in vaccines as a way to reduce morbidity and mortality.
我们没有理由认为这是一种很难研制疫苗的病毒，因为它看起来并非那么不稳定，还是在我们可以掌控范围之内的。
There is no reason to think that this is a virus that is very difficult to develop, because it does not seem so unstable and is within our control.
艾滋病毒的差异巨大，研制其疫苗就很艰难，流感每年都有显著的变化，但此病毒似乎比这两个都更稳定。
The differences in HIV are so great that it is difficult to develop a vaccine for the disease, which varies dramatically from year to year, but the virus appears to be more stable than either.
所以我认为我们应该能够研制出疫苗，虽然这不是一件能很快完成的事情，因为我们必须做安全测试。
So I think we should be able to develop a vaccine, although this is not something that can be done quickly because we have to do a safety test.
Y：我知道这很难预测，但你能告诉我（研制疫苗的）时间跨度是多少？两个月还是三个月？L：传统上对于疫苗的研发，不以“月”计，而是以“年”。
Y: I know it's hard to predict, but could you tell me what the time horizon is? Two months or three monthsL: Traditionally, vaccine development has not been measured in months, but in years.
问题是我们能不能缩短这个时间？我认为我们可以，但这取决于许多因素。
The question is whether we can shorten this time? I think we can, but it depends on a lot of factors.
不幸的是，现在有太多人同时试图研制疫苗，我们可能浪费了很多资源。
Unfortunately, too many people are now trying to develop a vaccine at the same time, and we may be wasting a lot of resources.
所以我认为我们应该选择一些，并对它们进行大量投资，我想这会是将要发生的事情。
So I think we should choose some and invest a lot in them, and I think that's what's going to happen.
敏感度更高的检测试剂将在武汉和北京开展测试工作作为遗传学方法应对传染性疾病的先驱和病毒猎手，利普金教授曾发现和鉴定了800多个与人类、野生动物或家养动物疾病相关的病毒。
More sensitive detection reagents will be tested in Wuhan and Beijing as a precursor to genetic approaches to infectious diseases and as viral hunters. Professor Lipkin has identified and identified more than 800 viruses associated with diseases in humans, wildlife or domestic animals.
二月初的中国之行，也让他尽可能全面地了解了疫情的发展与防治现状。
His visit to China in early February also allowed him to understand as fully as possible the development and prevention of the epidemic.
从中国返回后，利普金教授带领着团队迅速投入了新型冠状病毒检测试剂的研制中。
Upon his return from China, Professor Lipkin led the team into the development of a new coronavirus detection reagent.
Y：我们知道有很多人已经被隔离了，也出现了一些假阴性的情况。
Y: We know a lot of people have been isolated and there have been cases of false negatives.
而您一直在致力于开发一种比现有测试手段敏感度更高的诊断测试方法。
And you've been working on developing a more sensitive diagnostic test than the current one.
L：假阴性这个词用的很准确。
M: False negative is a very accurate word.
所以，现在问题是，你能不能找到想出一个更准确、更敏感、更特定的测试方法。
So the question now is, can you come up with a more accurate, sensitive, and specific test.
要知道，在疾病问世时的第一个测试方法往往不是最终的测试方法。
You know, the first test at the time of the disease is often not the final test.
这也是我们被要求做的一件事，另一件事我们正在尝试。
That's one thing we're being asked to do, and another thing we're trying to do.
我们将尝试利用转移这个序列和捕获技术，这样做的好处是会让测试更敏感、更便宜，而且处理时间更短。
We will try to use the transfer sequence and capture technology, which has the advantage of making testing more sensitive, cheaper and less time-consuming.
最终，有那么一个测试方法能让我们能够追踪到病毒是如何进化或者不进化的，进而变得更容易引起疾病或者更容易传播，这些就是我的任务。
Ultimately, there is a test that allows us to track how the virus evolved or did not evolve, making it easier to cause disease or spread.
Y：最初的核酸测试，准确率相对较低。
Y: The initial nucleic acid test was relatively low in accuracy.
那么，您如何评价您正在开发的这种新测试的准确性呢？L：我希望它会更好，我也认为它会更好，但它的效果还需要等我们在病人身上展开测试后才能知道。
How would you evaluate the accuracy of the new test you are developing? L: I hope it will be better, and I think it will be better, but its effects will not be known until we have tested it on the patient.
我们的测试工作将在广州和北京展开，我们会用现有核酸和新型核酸对人们进行测试，并公平比较两者，数据会告诉我们事实，然后我们会追踪这些人。
Our tests will be conducted in Guangzhou and Beijing. We will test people with existing nucleic acids and new nucleic acids and compare them fairly. The data will tell us the truth, and then we will track them down.
所以,现在我不想猜测，而是想看看结果如何。
So now I don't want to speculate, I want to see what happens.
Y:但我看得出，您对提高准确性很有信心L：我持谨慎乐观的态度，否则我也不会去做这件事。
But I can see that you have a lot of faith in accuracy. L: I'm cautiously optimistic, otherwise I wouldn't be able to do it.
疫情是对全球前所未有的挑战病毒是人类面临的最大风险Y：通过SARS和MERS（中东呼吸综合征）这样的流行病，我们学到了很多东西，他们基本也算是冠状病毒，但为什么这种（新冠病毒）传播的速度和规模会让人感到如此惊讶。
The virus is the greatest risk facing humanity. Y: We have learned a lot through pandemics such as SARS and MERS, and they are basically coronavirus, but why is this [new crown virus] spreading so fast and on such a scale that it is surprising.
为什么会如此？L：这种病毒的传染性似乎高得多，无疑比MERS更具严重传染性。
M: The virus seems to be much more contagious and is undoubtedly more contagious than MERS.
MERS是一种从蝙蝠传播到骆驼，再传播到人类的病毒。
MERS is a virus that spreads from bats to camels and then to humans.
人与人之间的传播案例是非常少的。
There are very few cases of human-to-human transmission.
SARS是在人与人之间传播的，但并不像这个病毒这么容易。
SARS spreads from person to person, but it's not as easy as the virus.
这真的是人类前所未有的一个挑战，这也不会是最后一个。
This is indeed a challenge unprecedented for humanity, and it will not be the last.
从艾滋病毒开始，我们遭遇了有SARS、NIPHA(尼帕病毒)和MERS，还有这种新冠病毒、登革热和寨卡病毒等。
Starting with HIV, we encountered SARS, NIPHA and MERS, as well as the new crown virus, dengue fever and Zika virus.
所有这些新出现的传染病基本上都来自野生动物，进入人体适应人类，然后变得能够直接或间接地在人与人之间传播。
Virtually all of these emerging infectious diseases come from wild animals, enter the human body to adapt to humans, and then become capable of direct or indirect human-to-human transmission.
因此，这些都是我们今后需要解决的问题，我们必须做些什么来防止这种情况反复发生，比如关闭野生动物市场。
So these are the issues we need to address in the future, and what we must do to prevent this from happening again, such as closing wildlife markets.
今天，我听说了（中国）已作出了关闭野生动物市场的决定，这太棒了，正是现在迫切需要的。
Today, I heard that [China] has made a decision to close the wildlife market. It's great, just what is needed now.
我们需要做的另一件事是共享数据。
Another thing we need to do is share data.
并不存在像纽约病毒或武汉病毒这样的东西，病毒是人类共同的敌人，我们需要团结起来，全球共同应对。
There is no such thing as the New York virus or the Wuhan virus, which is the common enemy of mankind, and we need to unite in a global response.
这也意味着，我们必须绕过一些知识产权和主权问题，以及贪念，还有所有其他阻碍信息正常传播的因素，而这些信息是控制病毒威胁整个世界所必需的。
It also means that we must bypass some intellectual property and sovereignty issues, as well as greed, and all the other obstacles to the normal flow of information that is necessary to control the virus that threatens the entire world.
Y：现在全球疫情的形势都非常严峻。
Y: Right now, the global situation is very serious.
除了中国，意大利、韩国、日本、伊朗等国已经有不少确诊和死亡病例，美国这边也有。
In addition to China, Italy, South Korea, Japan, Iran and other countries have a lot of confirmed cases and deaths, the United States side of the side.
L：正如你所看到的，这些国家正试图采用与中国相同的方法（应对），但这非常困难。
M: As you can see, these countries are trying to adopt the same approach [response] as China, but it's very difficult.
这也是我和钟南山谈论这个话题的原因之一。
That's one of the reasons I talked about this topic with Zhong Nan Shan.
就像我说的，我可以帮助你，提供给你一个工具，让你至少可以判断哪些人是有危险的，哪些人没有。
As I said, I can help you by providing you with a tool that allows you to judge, at least, who is at risk and who is not.
所以我们现在正努力地在做这件事，利用这些工具来获得一些线索，并能有所帮助。
So we are now trying to do this, using these tools to get some clues and help.
Y：世卫组织总干事说过，应对这场全球危机的窗口实际上正在关闭。
Y: The Director-General of WHO has said that the window to the global crisis is actually closing.
比尔·盖茨也曾说过，未来，流行病是比核武器更大的威胁。
Bill Gates has also said that, in the future, pandemics are a greater threat than nuclear weapons.
那么，人类在与这个无形敌人的战斗中该怎么做？L：实际上，我第一次听人说病毒是地球上最后一种敌人这个概念，是已故的诺贝尔经济学奖得主约书亚·莱德伯格。
For the first time, I heard that the virus was the last enemy on earth, the late Nobel laureate economist Joshua Lidberg.
他使用了我们所说的“病毒”这一特定短语，这是地球上人类面临的最大风险。
He used what we call the "virus," which is the greatest risk to humanity on Earth.
另一件我们可以肯定的事情是，随着我们逐渐攻克了这一特定问题时，威胁还会继续，而且这种流行病将有更多。
Another thing we can be sure of is that the threat will continue and that the epidemic will increase as we come to grips with this particular problem.
我们必须结成全球合作伙伴，共同加强对这些（流行病）的遏制。
We must forge a global partnership to strengthen the fight against these [pandemics].
因此《国际卫生条例》在2005年出台，上面提到每一个国家必须有能力在他们自己的境内来诊断疾病，超过180个国家签署了这个协议。
Thus, the International Health Regulations (IHR), introduced in 2005, refer to the need for each country to be able to diagnose diseases in its own territory, an agreement signed by more than 180 countries.
但至于透明地分享这些信息，目前显然还没到那一步。
But as for the transparent sharing of such information, it is clear that that is not yet the case.
目前，中国已经建立了基础设施，使其能够发现这种感染并逐渐控制它的特征。
China now has an infrastructure that allows it to detect the infection and gradually control its characteristics.
但世界上还有许多发展中国家不具备存在这种基础设施。
But there are many developing countries in the world that do not have such infrastructure.
因此，我和世界各地的同事们正在努力做的一件事就是建立这个项目，一个全球传染病流行病学网络，为他们提供基因测序和发展诊断工具，以及试剂盒所需的基础设施。
So one thing that I and my colleagues around the world are trying to do is to set up this project, a global epidemiological network of infectious diseases, to provide them with the necessary infrastructure for genetic sequencing and the development of diagnostic tools, as well as test kits.
所有信息都将发布到一个基于云的中央数据库，每个人都可以访问它，获得想要参考的信息。
All the information will be published in a central cloud-based database that everyone can access to get the information they want to refer to.
然后，每个人都可以去帮助解决问题，遏制它，在这些小火花变成大火之前就发现它们。
Then, everyone can help solve the problem, contain it, and discover the little sparks before they become a fire.
Y：因此，我们还需要建立一个更有效的全球合作机制，以应对全球挑战。
Y: So we also need a more effective mechanism for global cooperation to meet global challenges.
L：我认为，这就是我们所需要的。
M: That's all I think we need.
Y：排外情绪是一种传染病的副产品，比如这次新冠病毒疫情的暴发，当人们感到恐惧时，会引发非理性甚至是伤害性的行为，比如对来自某个地区或某个国家的人进行污名化。
Y: Xenophobia is a by-product of an infectious disease, like the outbreak of the new cap virus, which causes irrational and even hurtful behavior when people feel fear, such as stigmatizing people from a particular region or country.
你对此有何评论？L：是这样的，但这不是什么新鲜事。
M: That's right, but this is nothing new.
我的意思是，这是人类的天性，因为人们并没有真正认识到挑战，而这恰恰是真正需要人们去做的，这很遗憾。
I mean, it's human nature, because people don't really realize the challenges that people really need to do, and that's a shame.
来自疫区的人需要被隔离是应该的，但这与你是白人还是中国人，亚洲人还是非洲人无关。
People from affected areas need to be quarantined, but it doesn't matter if you are white or Chinese, Asian or African.
病毒无国界，所有人感染了都一样，仇外心理是不恰当的，因为它在寻找解决实际问题的真正办法之前设置了障碍。
The virus knew no borders, all were infected, and xenophobia was inappropriate because it set obstacles in the way of finding real solutions to real problems.
戳这里进入“全国新型冠状病毒感染病例实时地图”↓↓↓本期编辑 常琛推荐阅读。
Dell Compute Plot Here into Dell Computers Computation of New-style Cases of Coronavirus Infection in the Country
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“华南海鲜市场或为二次传播”，“病毒猎手”接受杨澜专访。
"South China Seafood Market or Secondary Transmission", "Virus Hunter" accepted Yang Lan's interview.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "“华南海鲜市场或为二次传播”，“病毒猎手”接受杨澜专访";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by Virus Hunter.
var msg_desc = "世界最知名“病毒猎手”利普金教授接受了知名主持人杨澜的专访";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by renowned host Professor Yang Lan.
title: '湖北：监狱、看守所原则上只进不出',。
Hubei: Not at all in prison or detention centre.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '一名空乘确诊，5名复工人员被隔离',。
A flight attendant was diagnosed and five reinstated workers were quarantined with service.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '3省5个监狱共确诊555例，司法部谈疫情细节漏洞',。
Ritle: & apos; 555 cases were diagnosed in five prisons in three provinces. & nbsp; & # 160; & # 45; & Justice & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
