我再也不想看到这个数字增加了。
I don't want to see that number increase again.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻记者 陈绪厚不幸的消息再次传来。
The sad news of Chen Xuehou, a journalist, came again.
武汉市中心医院3月1日上午发布公告：武汉市中心医院甲状腺乳腺外科党支部书记、主任、主任医师、中国医师奖获得者江学庆同志， 在抗击新冠肺炎疫情工作中不幸染病，经全力抢救无效，于3月1日凌晨5点32分在武汉市肺科医院去世，享年55岁。
Wu Han Central Hospital on the morning of March 1 issued a notice: Wuhan Central Hospital Thyroid Breast Surgery Branch Secretary, Director, Chief Physician, Chinese physician Award Laureate Comrade Jiang Xueqing, died on March 1 at 5: 32 a.m. in Wuhan City Lung Hospital after failing in all efforts to save him.
一周前的2月23日，我们痛别了黄文军、夏思思和杜显圣三名优秀的医护人员，他们在抗击疫情一线工作中不幸感染新冠肺炎，后经抢救无效离世。
A week ago, on February 23, we bade farewell to three excellent medical workers, Huang Wenjun, Xia Si Si and Du Xiangsheng, who had unfortunately contracted the new crown pneumonia in the front line of the fight against the epidemic.
此前，国家卫健委曾通报，截至2月11日24时，全国共报告医务人员确诊病例1716例，其中有6人以身殉职。
As of 2400 hours on February 11, 1,716 cases had been reported nationwide, of which six had been killed in the line of duty, according to the National Health Commission.
澎湃新闻（www.thepaper.cn）根据官方通报及公开报道不完全统计，截至2月24日，在此次抗击新冠肺炎的疫情中，全国至少已有9名医护人员在这场“战疫”中不幸感染新冠肺炎而逝世，年纪最大的63岁，最小的仅29岁。
News surging (www.thepper.cn) According to official and publicly reported incomplete statistics, as of Feb. 24, at least nine medical workers across the country had died of the disease, the oldest 63 years old and the youngest as young as 29.
而其中，7人都是在2月之前感染发病。
Seven of them contracted the disease before February.
同时，至少有11名医护人员在抗疫中因积劳成疾、突发心梗、车祸等原因去世。
At the same time, at least 11 health care workers in the fight against the disease due to accumulated illness, sudden cardiac arrest, car accidents and other causes of death.
20人中，有的是医院院长，带领全院医护人员抗击在疫情一线，发病后仍在为改造医院收治病患的事情而忙碌，最后医院改造如期完成，他却被送进了重症监护室；有的是村医，在偏远的乡村地区默默坚守岗位，一位67岁村医在抗击疫情中因病去世了，他的儿子接替了他的岗位，继续奋战；有的是90后医生，29岁丈夫没法向妻子兑现迟到了两年的婚礼，同样29岁的妈妈留下了2岁的孩子，孩子还不知道她去世的消息……“健康所系，性命所托。
At last, the hospital was renovated and he was sent to intensive-care unit. Some doctors, 29-year-old village doctor, died of illness in a remote rural area, while another 29-year-old mother left a 2-year-old child who had not yet heard of her death.
”他们用行动践行了《医学生誓言》里的这句话。
By their actions, they carried out the words of the Medical Student Oath.
而他们的背后，是湖北50多万放弃休假、坚守岗位的医护人员，是从全国各地前来支援湖北的近4万名医护人员，是奋战在全国抗击疫情一线的广大医护群体，他们艰苦卓绝地战斗，只为打赢这场疫情保卫战。
Behind them are more than half a million medical personnel in Hubei province who gave up their holidays and remained on their posts, nearly 40,000 medical personnel from all over the country came to support Hubei.
保护关爱医务人员是打赢疫情防控阻击战的重要保障，2月3日召开的中共中央政治局常务委员会会议就强调，坚决把救治资源和防护资源集中到抗击疫情第一线，优先满足一线医护人员和救治病人需要。
At the meeting of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China (CPC) on February 3, the Standing Committee of the Politburo emphasized that resources for treatment and protection should be focused on the first line of fighting the epidemic, giving priority to meeting the needs of first-line medical personnel and patients.
会议指出，继续根据需要从全国调派医务人员驰援武汉，同时保护好医务人员身心健康。
The meeting noted the need to continue to deploy medical personnel from across the country to Wuhan, while protecting the physical and mental health of medical personnel.
2月22日，中央应对新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情工作领导小组印发《关于全面落实进一步保护关心爱护医务人员若干措施的通知》，就进一步保护关心爱护医务人员提出十方面措施。
On February 22, the Leading Group of the Central Government's Work on the New Coronavirus Infection Pneumonia issued the Circular on the Comprehensive Implementation of Measures for the Further Protection of the Care of Medical Personnel, proposing 10 measures to further protect medical personnel.
国家卫生健康委也于2月18日印发通知，从7个方面进一步加强疫情防控期间医务人员防护工作。
The National Health Council also issued a circular on 18 February to further strengthen the protection of medical personnel during the prevention and control of the epidemic in seven areas.
澎湃新闻注意到，对于抗击新冠肺炎的一线医护人员，全国多地也出台了一系列关爱政策。
Peng Pai news noted that the fight against the new crown pneumonia front-line health care workers, many parts of the country also launched a series of care policies.
如，广东省总工会组建心理健康服务团队，对有需要的医护人员及其家属提供心理危机干预和心理疏导服务。
For example, the General Union of Guangdong Province has set up a mental health service team to provide psychological crisis intervention and counseling services to medical staff and their families in need.
对感染新冠肺炎的医务人员，每人提供3万元救助金；参加了在岗职工医疗互助保障计划的，还可以给每人最高赔付5万元。
Each member of the medical staff suffering from pneumonia in the New Crown will be provided with a subsidy of 30,000 yuan, and those who participate in the medical mutual medical insurance scheme for workers on duty will also be entitled to pay a maximum of 50,000 yuan to each of them.
同时，湖北、江苏南京、山西大同、内蒙古包头、重庆、青海、山东等地出台文件，将给抗疫一线医护人员子女升学照顾性政策。
At the same time, Hubei, Jiangsu Nanjing, Shanxi Datong, Baotou Inner Mongolia, Chongqing, Qinghai, Shandong, and other places will give preferential policies to the children of front-line medical staff against the epidemic.
部分因新冠肺炎殉职的医务人员江学庆，男，55岁，武汉市中心医院甲状腺乳腺外科党支部书记、主任、主任医师、中国医师奖获得者据武汉市中心医院公告，江学庆同志1964年3月31日出生于湖北省武汉市。
Jiang Xueqing, a 55-year-old medical worker who lost his life in the line of duty with the New Crown Pneumonia, was born on March 31, 1964 in Wuhan, Hubei Province, according to the notice of Wuhan Central Hospital.
1986年7月从同济医科大学临床医学专业毕业后一直在武汉市中心医院工作，从事外科专业30余年。
Since graduating from Tongji Medical University in July 1986, he has been working in Wuhan Central Hospital, specializing in surgery for more than 30 years.
在医院工作期间兢兢业业、甘于奉献，对患者耐心细致，尽职尽责，为医院发展作出了重要贡献。
During the work in the hospital dedicated, willing to dedicate, patient and meticulous patients, due diligence, for hospital development made an important contribution.
江学庆同志在抗击新冠肺炎疫情工作中不幸染病，经全力抢救无效，于2020年3月1日凌晨5点32分在武汉市肺科医院去世，享年55岁。
Comrade Jiang Xueqing died on March 1, 2020, at 5: 32 a.m. in Wuhan City Lung Hospital, aged 55, because he had the misfortune to get sick in the fight against the new crown pneumonia.
黄文军，男，42岁，孝感市中心医院呼吸内科副主任医师2001年6月，黄文军毕业于武汉大学医学院临床医学系，同年8月起在孝感市中心医院呼吸内科工作。
In June 2001, Huang Wenjun graduated from the Department of Clinical Medicine of Wuhan University Medical School. Since August of the same year, he began to work in respiratory medicine at Xiaogan City Central Hospital.
2004年-2005年，他在华中科技大学同济医院呼吸内科进修学习一年，于2006年12月被聘为主治医师，2012年被聘为副主任医师。
From 2004 to 2005, he spent one year in the Department of Respiratory Medicine at Tongji Hospital of Huazhong University of Science and Technology, where he was recruited as attending physician in December 2006 and vice-president in 2012.
疫情发生后，黄文军写下请战书：“苟利国家生死以，岂因祸福避趋之。
After the outbreak of the epidemic, Huang Wenjun wrote an invitation to fight: "survival of the country, should not avoid fate.
我申请去隔离病房，共赴国难，听从组织安排！”2月23日晚，孝感市中心医院官网发布讣告：在抗击新冠肺炎的战役中，黄文军不幸被感染，经多方抢救医治无效，于2月23日19时30分不幸牺牲。
I applied to go to the isolation ward and go to the disaster and listen to the organization! On the night of Feb. 23, the official website of Xiaogan City Central Hospital announced that Huang Wenjun was unfortunately infected during the battle against Newcastle Pneumonia and died at 1930 hours on February 23 after multiple medical treatments failed.
据同事介绍，1月27日，黄文军称有点干咳，不太舒服。
According to colleagues, on January 27, Huang Wenjun said he had a dry cough and was not feeling well.
两天后，病情加重，后于1月29日确诊感染新冠肺炎。
Two days later, the disease became more serious and was subsequently diagnosed with pneumonia on 29 January.
夏思思，女，29岁，武汉协和江北医院消化内科住院医师协和江北医院发布的公告显示，在抗击疫情一线，夏思思不幸感染新冠肺炎，于1月19日被收治，医院全力救治。
Xiaxi, female, 29, Wuhan Concorde Jiangbei Hospital Digestive Medicine Hospital issued a notice to show that in the first line of the fight against the epidemic, Xia Sisisi was unfortunately infected with the new crown pneumonia, January 19 was admitted to hospital full treatment.
2月7日，病情恶化，医院紧急将其送往武汉大学中南医院救治。
On 7 February, his condition deteriorated and the hospital sent him urgently to Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital for treatment.
2月23日6时30分，夏思思经救治无效在武汉大学中南医院去世。
Feb. 23 6: 30, Xiaxi invalid after treatment in Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital passed away.
夏思思出生于医护世家，她的父亲是军医，母亲是护士。
Born into a nursing family, her father was a military doctor and her mother a nurse.
受家庭影响，她从小就立下了当医生的志向。
Influenced by her family, she aspired to be a doctor from an early age.
她和丈夫都是协和江北医院的医生。
She and her husband are doctors at Concorde Jiangbei Hospital.
丈夫回忆说，他俩都在武汉江汉大学学医，是校园爱情，一起走过11个年头。
They both studied medicine at Wuhan Jianghan University and spent 11 years together on campus love, her husband recalled.
彭银华，男，29岁，武汉市江夏区第一人民医院呼吸与危重症医学科医生彭银华和妻子武汉市江夏区第一人民医院发布的公告显示，彭银华在抗击疫情一线不幸感染新冠肺炎，于1月25日入住该院，1月30日病情加重，被送往金银潭医院治疗。
Peng Yinhua, male, 29 years old, was admitted to the First People's Hospital of Jiangxia District, Wuhan. Peng Yinhua, a respiratory and critically ill physician, and his wife, Jiang Xia District First People's Hospital in Wuhan, were admitted to the hospital on January 25.
因病情恶化，经抢救无效，于2月20日21时50分去世。
He died at 2150 hours on 20 February, having been resuscitated as a result of the deterioration of his condition.
彭银华出生农村家庭，毕业于湖北科技学院临床医学院，住院医师规范化培训的3年，除了正常上班、学习，他还兼职医院120急救工作，经常给父母寄钱。
Peng Yinhua was born in a rural family, graduated from Hubei Institute of Technology and Clinical Medicine, resident standardized training three years, in addition to normal work, study, he also part-time hospital 120 first aid work, often send money to parents.
彭银华和妻子结婚两年，妻子已怀孕6月。
Peng was married to his wife for two years and his wife was six months pregnant.
他原计划在2月1日（正月初八）为妻子准备一场迟到两年的婚礼，已经邀请了科室同事们“热闹一下”，办公桌抽屉里还放着没发出的请柬。
He had planned to prepare for his wife's wedding on February 1 (the eighth day of the first month) two years late. He had asked his office colleagues to "cheer up" and there was an unsolicited invitation in his desk drawer.
刘智明，男，51岁，武汉市武昌医院院长澎湃新闻此前报道，1991年7月，刘智明从原湖北医学院本科毕业，被分配到原郧阳地区人民医院外三病区从事神经外科临床工作。
Liu Zhiming, a 51-year-old male and director of Wuhan Wuchang Medical College, had reported that in July 1991, Liu Zhiming graduated from the former Hubei Medical College and was assigned to work as a neurosurgeon outside the Yunyang People's Hospital.
1995年，刘智明离开十堰，只身前往武汉工作。
In 1995, Liu Zhiming left Shiyan to work alone in Wuhan.
无论是在郧阳医院，或是武汉三院，还是武昌医院，刘智明的拼劲几乎无人不知。
Whether in Yunyang Hospital, or Wuhan three hospitals, or Wuchang Hospital, Liu Zhiming's strenuous efforts almost everyone knows.
作为武汉市首批发热门诊定点医院的院长，疫情发生以来，刘智明带领全体医务人员奋战在抗疫一线。
As the director of the first batch of fever clinics designated hospitals in Wuhan, Liu Zhiming led all the medical staff to fight against the epidemic.
1月22日，刘智明出现身体不适，于次日确诊患新冠肺炎。
On January 22, Liu Zhiming developed symptoms and was diagnosed with pneumonia the following day.
1月24日，因病情加重，刘智命被转入武昌医院重症监护室（ICU）。
On January 24, Liu was transferred to the intensive care unit (ICU) of Wuchang Hospital due to his worsening condition.
2月17日，刘智明病情危重。
On February 17, Liu Zhiming was in critical condition.
2月18日，在用ECMO治疗17小时后，刘智明去世。
On 18 February, Liu Zhiming died 17 hours after being treated with ECMO.
柳帆，女，59岁，副主任护师柳帆生前在武汉市武昌医院举办的梨园街社区卫生服务中心注射室从事护理工作。
Liu Fan, female, aged 59, works in the injection room of Liufan Street Community Health Service Centre, organized by Liufan Deputy Head Nurse at Wuchang Hospital in Wuhan City.
据@武汉发布消息，2020年2月2日前，柳帆一直正常在岗值班。
According to @ Wuhan release of information, until February 2, 2020, willow sails have been on duty.
2月3日至2月5日轮休三天。
Three-day rotation leave from 3 February to 5 February.
2月6日早上7点，柳帆给科室护士长打电话诉身体不适，有发热症状，护士长当即安排她到武汉市武昌医院西院区进行全面检查；2月7日被确诊为新型冠状病毒肺炎，当日立即入院治疗，在住院期间，医院尽全力进行救治，但由于基础性疾病较多，病情呈进行性加重，2月14日18时30分经抢救无效逝世。
At 7: 00 a.m. on Feb. 6, Liu Fan telephoned the head nurse to complain that she was unwell and had febrile symptoms. The head nurse immediately arranged for her to come to WUCHANG Hospital for a thorough examination.
在她去世前，其父母和弟弟也先后因感染新冠肺炎去世。
Before her death, her parents and younger brother also died of pneumonia.
肖俊，男，50岁，武汉市红十字会医院普外科副主任医师长江日报 图大学刚毕业，肖俊便到武汉市红十字会医院工作，至今已有29年。
Xiao Jun, male, 50 years old, Wuhan Red Cross Hospital general surgery deputy director of the University just graduated, Xiao Jun will work in Wuhan Red Cross Hospital, has 29 years.
2月21日晚，武汉市红十字会医院发布公告：肖俊在抗击疫情一线不幸感染新冠肺炎，1月26日在本院住院治疗，1月27日转武汉市金银潭医院治疗，后因病情恶化，经抢救无效，于2月8日18时13分在武汉市金银潭医院去世。
On the evening of February 21, the Wuhan Red Cross Hospital issued a notice: Xiao Jun was admitted to the hospital on January 26 and transferred to the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital in Wuhan on January 27 for treatment.
同事回忆说，平时大家都喜欢调侃肖俊，叫他“阑尾小王子”，取这个名字，是因为他一天要做7、8台阑尾手术，很多患者点名都要找他主刀、管床。
Colleagues recall that everyone liked to joke about Xiao Jun, calling him the "little prince of the appendix," a name given to him because he had to do seven or eight appendiceal operations a day, and many of the patients called for his main knife and tube bed.
有时带着亲友来找他，遇上他外出开会，患者都要等着他回来。
Sometimes he comes to him with friends and relatives. When he goes out to a meeting, the patient waits for him to return.
李文亮，男，35岁，武汉市中心医院眼科医生李文亮于2004年参加高考，从武汉大学临床医学七年制专业毕业后，先在厦门工作了三年，2014年回到武汉，一直在武汉市中心医院工作。
Li Wenliang, a 35-year-old male, an ophthalmologist at Wuhan Central Hospital, took the entrance examination in 2004. After graduating from the seven-year course of clinical medicine from Wuhan University, he worked in Xiamen for three years before returning to Wuhan in 2014.
2020年1月8日，李文亮在接诊时遇到不明原因的病毒性肺炎患者并受到感染。
On January 8, 2020, Li Wenliang encountered an unidentified viral pneumonia patient while receiving treatment and was infected.
武汉市中心医院发布的信息显示，李文亮在抗击新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情工作中不幸感染，经全力抢救无效，于2月7日凌晨2点58分去世。
According to the information released by Wuhan Central Hospital, Li Wenliang died at 2.58 a.m. on February 7 after suffering an unfortunate infection in the battle against pneumonia caused by a new coronavirus infection.
杜显圣，男，54岁，海南琼中阳江农场医院医生据海南日报报道，1月18日，杜显圣在工作期间出现发热、咳嗽等症状，自行用药2天。
Du Xiangsheng, 54, a doctor at Qiongzhong Yangjiang Farm Hospital in Hainan province, reported in Hainan's Qiongzhongyang Farm Hospital on January 18.
由于病情未见好转，1月22日到儋州市人民医院就诊，医院怀疑其被新型冠状病毒感染。
As the disease did not improve, January 22 Danzhou People's Hospital, the hospital suspected that it was infected with the new coronavirus.
1月25日，被确诊为新型冠状病毒肺炎，随即由儋州市人民医院转到海南省人民医院。
On January 25, the new coronavirus pneumonia was confirmed and transferred from Danzhou People's Hospital to Hainan Province People's Hospital.
2月23日中午，经抢救无效，杜显圣去世。
At noon on 23 February, after rescue efforts failed, Du Xiansheng died.
澎湃新闻此前报道，杜显圣是阳江农场医院出现的本地聚集性疫情的病患之一，他曾接诊过该院防保组组长贾某某，而贾某某早前与曾某某（其父母1月初曾到武汉旅游）有过密切接触。
The news surged after it was reported that Du Xiangsheng was one of the victims of a local epidemic at Yangjiang Farm Hospital. He had been in close contact with Jia and his parents, who had visited Wuhan in early January.
1月29日，海南省卫健委发布通报指出，截至1月29日，海南省报告两例本地感染新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎确诊病例，分别为杜某某（即杜显圣）和贾某某。
As of January 29, 2007, two confirmed cases of local pneumonia infected with a new coronavirus were reported in Hainan Province, namely Du Mou (or Du Hin Sin) and Jamou (Jia), the Health Commission of Hainan Province said on January 29.
部分因其他原因不幸去世的医务人员王土成，男，37岁，河南省许昌市长葛市董村镇新王庄村村医据中新网报道，2月10日，河南省长葛市董村镇新王庄村村医王土成因劳累过度，突发急性心肌梗死，年仅37岁。
Wang Tucheng, a 37-year-old medical worker who died in part from other causes, is a 37-year-old doctor at the village of Xinwangzhuang Village, Dong Township, Changge City, Henan Province, February 10, 2007.
王土成1999年从长葛市卫校毕业，2005年取得乡村医生资格证，此后一直在新王庄村卫生室工作。
Wang Tucheng graduated from Changge Health School in 1999 and obtained a village doctor's certificate in 2005. Since then he has been working in the health clinic of New Wang Zhuang Village.
连续多日奋战在抗击新冠肺炎疫情一线的王土成，为了全天候保持“战斗”状态，主动和家人隔离，将“卧室”设在了村卫生室。
Wang Tucheng, who has been battling the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic for days on end, has been keeping his bedroom in a village health room in an all-weather effort to remain "combat" and separate from his family.
姜继军，男，51岁，江苏省泰州市人民医院感染科医生据南方都市报报道，1月23日，姜继军医生在查房后奔赴发热门诊的时候，因呼吸心跳骤停倒下，经抢救无效后去世。
Jiang Jijun, a 51-year-old male and an infectious doctor at Taizhou People's Hospital in Jiangsu Province, died on January 23 after suffering a cardiac arrest when he rushed to a fever clinic after a house search, the Southern Metropolis Daily reported.
在抢救姜继军医生的过程中，专家基本确定是心脑血管方面原因导致的猝死。
In the process of rescuing Jiang Jijun's doctor, the expert basically confirmed is the cardiac and cerebrovascular aspect causes the sudden death.
姜继军生前是副主任医师，从事感染病诊疗20余年，对不明原因发热待查的诊治有丰富的临床经验。
Jiang Jijun was the deputy chief physician, engaged in the diagnosis and treatment of infectious diseases for more than 20 years, fever unknown causes pending investigation has rich clinical experience.
蒋金波，男，58岁，江西省赣州市大余县疾病预防控制中心医师蒋金波（左一） 中国江西网 图据江西日报报道，1月28日，在疫情防控一线连续工作多日，因劳累过度突发心梗，蒋金波经抢救无效去世。
Jiang Jinbo, a 58-year-old male, is a doctor at the Centre for Disease Control and Prevention in Dawu County, Ganzhou City, Jiangxi Province.
他最后一天的午饭，是方便面；最后的生命时刻，他还惦记着工作。
His last day of lunch was instant noodles, and at the last moment of his life he was still thinking about work.
1982年从赣州卫校毕业之后，蒋金波一直服务于大余县疾控事业，先后历经2003年非典、2009年大余“7·3”洪灾、2013年禽流感、2019年人感染猪链球菌病等重大防疫“战役”，多次被评为卫生系统先进个人。
After graduating from Ganzhou Health School in 1982, Jiang Jinbo has been serving the cause of disease control in Dawu County. He has been named as an advanced individual in the health system through major epidemic prevention campaigns such as SARS in 2003, the 3 July flood in 2009, avian influenza in 2013 and Streptococcus suis infection in 2019.
徐辉，女，51岁，江苏省南京市中医院副院长据微信公众号“南京发布”消息，2月7日0时03分，在疫情防控中连续奋战18天，徐辉积劳成疾不幸去世。
Xu Hui, a 51-year-old woman, died of his illness at 0003 hours on Feb. 7 after struggling for 18 days in the prevention and control of the epidemic, according to the Vice-President of the Nanjing Chinese Hospital in Nanjing, Jiangsu Province.
徐辉很忙，她不仅是南京市中医院新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎防治指挥部副组长，也是医院防治工作小组组长。
Xu Hui is very busy, she is not only the Nanjing Chinese Hospital new coronavirus infection of the Pneumonia Command, but also is the head of the hospital prevention and treatment team.
在奋战抗疫一线的18天里，她牵头制定了《南京市中医院新型冠状病毒感染肺炎的应急预案》，组建发热门诊、预检分诊的医疗队伍，筹集防控物资……毛样红，男，52岁，福建省南平市浦城县仙阳镇中心卫生院副院长据央视网报道，1月25日，毛样红在高速检查站检测过往车辆乘员体温。
In the first 18 days of fighting the epidemic, she led the formulation of the "Nanjing Chinese Hospital New Coronavirus Infection Pneumonia Emergency Plan," set up a fever clinic, pre-check-up medical team, and raised materials for prevention and control.
当晚9点多，一辆轿车途经此地看到信号后，误将油门当刹车，导致车辆失控，撞倒毛样红，后经抢救无效死亡。
Later that night, a car passing through the area to see the signal, mistakenly brake the throttle, causing the car out of control, hit hair-like red, and later died after rescue.
据家属介绍，当天本不是毛样红值班。
According to family members, it was not Mao-like red duty that day.
因为医院人手不够，毛样红主动申请加班。
Because the hospital is understaffed, Mao Xiang-hong volunteered to work overtime.
没想到发生了意外，在大年初一倒在防疫一线。
Unexpectedly, an accident occurred on the first day of the Lunar New Year fell in epidemic prevention.
宋英杰，男，28岁，湖南省衡山县东湖镇马迹卫生院药剂组副组长据中新网报道，从大年初一开始，宋英杰连续多日在岳临高速东湖高速路口对过往人员进行排查，检测体温。
Song Yingjie, a 28-year-old male, is the deputy director of the pharmacy team at Donghu Town, Hengshan County, Hunan Province. Song Yingjie has been checking people's body temperature for days at the East Lake Expressway intersection since the New Year's Day, according to CCTV.
2月3日凌晨，他和同事在高速路口值班后，回到在医院的宿舍。
In the early morning hours of 3 February, he and his colleagues returned to their dormitory at the hospital after a high-speed junction.
同日下午，宋英杰被发现在医院宿舍内猝死。
The same afternoon, Song Yingjie was found dead in the hospital dormitory.
衡山县委宣传部表示，宋英杰在抗击新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情工作中，多日连续超负荷工作，因劳累过度引发心源性猝死，因公殉职。
Hengshan County Communications Department said that Song Yingjie in the fight against the new coronavirus infection pneumonia, many days of continuous overload work, due to overwork caused by sudden cardiac death, died in the line of duty.
魏安君，男，67岁，湖北襄阳市襄州区龙王镇肖集村村医据湖北日报报道，魏安君生前系襄阳市襄州区龙王镇肖集村村医，2012年开始担任肖集村四组组长。
Wei Anjun, a 67-year-old male, is a village doctor in Xiao Wang Village, Xiangzhou District, Hubei Province, Hubei Daily reported. Wei Anjun was a village doctor in Xiangzhou, Xiangzhou, Xiangzhou, Hubei Province.
新冠肺炎疫情阻击战打响后，他主动请缨，连续14天日夜奋战在肖集至文湾村的疫情防控点上，克服防护措施简单、村民防控意识不强、任务重人员少等困难，坚持全天候驻守卡点，测体温、先后劝返群众300余人次，因过度疲劳倒在抗疫一线，经抢救无效去世。
He had chosen to fight against the disease for 14 days and nights at the point of prevention and control from Xiao Ji to Wenwan Village. He insisted on manning the checkpoint all day long, taking temperature and persuading the masses to return to their places of residence.
魏安君去世后，儿子魏雄伟接替了他的岗位。
After Wei Anjun died, Wei Xiongwei succeeded him.
魏雄伟说，“十多年前，我考取了相关资格证，接替父亲成为了一名村医；如今，我还要继续接替父亲的岗位，坚持战斗在抗疫一线，为战胜疫情出力。
'More than a decade ago, I passed a qualification to replace my father as a village doctor, 'Mr. Wei said.' Now, I have to continue to take over as my father and fight the epidemic on the frontlines.
”朱峥嵘，男，48岁，江苏省南通市启东市南阳镇社区卫生服务中心病房组长中国江苏网 图据启东市卫健委发布的消息，2月22日，朱峥嵘全身多脏器功能衰竭抢救无效离世。
Zhu Zhengrong, male, age 48, head of the Nanyang Town Community Health Service Center, Qidong City, Jiangsu Province.
朱峥嵘于1973年5月生，1996年8月参加工作，2017年11月入党，曾先后获得启东市卫生健康系统“十佳医生”、优秀共产党员等荣誉称号。
Zhengrong in May 1973, in August 1996 to join the work, in November 2017, has been Qidong City health system "ten good doctors, excellent Communists, and other honorary titles.
新冠肺炎疫情发生后，年前就查出大动脉炎的朱峥嵘把住院通知书藏了起来，带领病房组全体医务人员投入到防疫战斗中。
After the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia, Zhu Zhengrong found atherosclerosis in the hospital notice hidden, leading the ward team of medical personnel into the battle against epidemic.
为了克服人少事多的困难，他主动担责，在病房值班的同时还兼带发热门诊值班，从除夕开始陆续工作，整整二十多天，他始终坚守在疫情防控一线。
In order to overcome the difficulties of a small number of people, he took the initiative, while on duty in the ward with a fever clinic, from the New Year's Eve began to work, for more than 20 days, he has been firmly in the frontline of epidemic prevention and control.
陈健，女，26岁，云南省昭通市彝良县奎香乡寸田村村医中新网 图陈健，汉族，大专文化，2017年4月入职奎香乡寸田村卫生室从事村医工作，先后负责孕产妇健康管理、儿童健康管理、卫生监督协管服务和基本医疗服务等公共卫生服务项目。
Chen Jian, a 26-year-old woman, is a village doctor in Kuixiang township of Yi Liang County, Zhaotong City, Yunnan Province. Chen Jian, Han nationality, college and university are engaged in village medicine in April 2017. She is responsible for maternal health management, child health management, health supervision and basic medical services.
据中新网报道，新冠肺炎疫情阻击战打响后，按照奎香卫生院安排，迟焕琴和陈健负责对寸田村新房、后山、中街等村民小组居家观察对象进行医学监测。
After the outbreak of the New Crown Pneumonia Blast Campaign, Chi Huanqin and Chen Jian were in charge of medical monitoring of the residents' groups in their homes, including the new house, Houshan and Zhongjie.
2月12日10点左右，陈健骑电动车带着迟焕琴，在对寸田村上街组、新房组、后山组居家观察对象进行体温监测和防疫知识宣传后，行至寸田村漆树组“李家湾子”处时，撞在距离路面约2米的一块石碑上，导致两人不同程度受伤，随后被送医。
At around 10: 00 pm on February 12, Chen Jian, with his electric vehicle, was taken to a stone tablet about 2 meters from the road surface after conducting body temperature monitoring and epidemic prevention education among the residents of the Sheung Shue Section, the New Home Group and the Houshan Group.
其中，陈健由于受伤较严重，经抢救无效于12日下午3点45分死亡；迟焕琴后被转至彝良县人民医院急诊科救治。
Chen Jian died at 3: 45 pm on December 12 due to his serious injuries. He was transferred to the emergency department of Yi Liangxian People's Hospital for treatment.
宋云花，女，46岁，云南省保山市隆阳区青华街道太平社区卫生室医生光明网 图据光明网报道，1月31日，开展了一上午防控新冠肺炎疫情工作的宋云花医生，在前往保山市隆阳区青华街道沈官园1号地的途中，13时30分许遭遇车祸，抢救无效，不幸去世得知宋医生去世的噩耗，熟悉她的人们都难以接受。
On January 31, Dr. Song Yunhua, a doctor in Taiping Community Health Center, Qinghua Street, Longyang District, Baoshan City, Yunnan Province, reported that on January 31, Dr. Song Yunhua, who worked all morning to control the outbreak, was in a car accident at about 13: 30 pm.
光明网报道，太平社区书记杨虎说：“她前天和我们在社区入口值班4个多小时，为了群众的安全排查外来人员，一直任劳任怨”。
"She was on duty with us at the community entrance for more than four hours the day before yesterday," said Yang Hu, Taiping community secretary.
太平社区居民白祖芹说：“宋医生到太平社区这些年一直关心照顾我们，今天她走了，我们失去了一位最亲近的人。
"Dr Song has been caring for us all these years when he came to the Tai Ping community. Today she left and we lost one of our closest relatives," said Pak Zu-qin, a resident of the Taiping community.
”张建华，男，50岁，陕西省咸阳市旬邑县湫坡头镇卫生院公共卫生科科长兼救护车驾驶员据央广网报道，张建华参加工作以来，一直坚守在乡村公共卫生事业一线，负责陕西省咸阳市旬邑县湫坡头镇公共卫生、慢性病、居民健康档案、健康扶贫等工作，并担负6000多户群众的预防接种任务，多次被旬邑县卫生健康局评为“健康卫士”，连续6年被评为旬邑县卫生系统先进工作者。
Zhang Jianhua, a 50-year-old man, is the head of public health department and ambulance driver at Xunyi county, Xianyang City, Shaanxi Province. Since joining the work, Zhang Jianhua has been in the forefront of rural public health, responsible for public health, chronic diseases, residents' health records and health relief work.
2020年1月，面对突如其来的新冠肺炎疫情，病假未满的张建华同志积极响应号召，提前返回岗位，担负起了全镇所有单位消毒防控和7个村12个检查点的疫情防控宣传工作任务。
In January 2020, in the face of the sudden outbreak of pneumonia, Comrade Zhang Jianhua, who had not reached the end of his sick leave, returned to his post earlier than scheduled, assuming the task of disinfecting all units in the town and carrying out disease prevention and control work at 12 checkpoints in seven villages.
他连续二十多天奋战在疫情防控工作一线，每天工作10小时以上。
For more than 20 days, he worked more than 10 hours a day on the frontline of epidemic prevention and control.
2020年2月3日，张建华在为湫坡头镇财政所消毒途中突发昏迷，经抢救无效去世。
February 3, 2020, Zhang Jianhua in the town of Qiushui Qiushui Town Finance House on the way to a coma, after rescue failed to die.
本期编辑 常琛推荐阅读。
This issue editor Chang Chen recommended reading.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
我再也不想看到这个数字增加了。
I don't want to see that number increase again.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "我再也不想看到这个数字增加了";。
var msg _ title = & quot; I never wanted to see that figure increase by & quot;;
var msg_desc = "至少20名医护在抗疫中去世，其中9人染新冠肺炎";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; at least 20 medical personnel died with plague, nine of them with New Crown Pneumonia;;
title: '湖北：监狱、看守所原则上只进不出',。
Hubei: Not at all in prison or detention centre.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '一名空乘确诊，5名复工人员被隔离',。
A flight attendant was diagnosed and five reinstated workers were quarantined with service.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '3省5个监狱共确诊555例，司法部谈疫情细节漏洞',。
Ritle: & apos; 555 cases were diagnosed in five prisons in three provinces. & nbsp; & # 160; & # 45; & Justice & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
