“武汉嫂子汉骂”火了后，成了社区志愿者。
"Wuhan sister-in-law Han scold" after the fire, became community volunteers.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻记者 温潇潇 实习生 孟津津武汉市江岸区江码社区火了。
Peng Pai News reporter Wen Xiaoxiao intern Mengjin Wuhan City Jiangba District Jiangcode community fire.
2月22日晚，该社区下辖的滨江苑小区业主微信群里，一名女业主激动地连发数条语音，怒骂中百超市针对不同小区发布“AB阴阳套餐”，买米要搭配草纸和酱油，社区不回应业委会诉求等。
On the evening of February 22, a woman owner of the small district of Binjiang Yuan under the jurisdiction of the community issued several excited voice, scolded Zhongbai supermarkets for "AB yin and yang package" for different districts, buy rice with grass paper and soy sauce, and the community did not respond to industry committee appeals.
语音信息随后迅速传遍网络、引发热议，人称“武汉嫂子十级汉骂”。
Voice information then quickly spread throughout the network, triggered a heated discussion, called "Wuhan sister-in-law ten Han scold."
事发第二天，社区便与中百超市协商取消了团购套餐，附近的家乐福超市成为居民团购的新供货商，团购之外的其他物资则由社区进行统一代购。
The day after the incident, the community and 100 supermarkets negotiated the cancellation of the group purchase package, the nearby Carrefour supermarket became a group of residents to purchase new supplies, other than the purchase of goods by the community on behalf of a unified procurement.
武汉嫂子“汉骂”事件后，涉事中百超市取消团购套餐，改由社区收集居民需求，开放全品类购买。
Wuhan sister-in-law "Han scold" incident, involved in the 100 supermarkets cancelled group purchase package, by the community to collect the needs of the residents, open a full range of purchases.
对于被指有“阴阳套餐”，涉事的中百超市店长称：“我们的店不大，套餐不可能满足所有人的个性化需求，都是我的顾客，我基于什么目的会区分对待呢？”此事发生后，江码社区书记朱莉很难受，她坦言，面对辖区内6500多名居民，社区在岗工作人员只有十一人，情急之下只能先关注解决生活必需品，工作没有做细，但绝对不存在AB阴阳套餐。
"Our store is small, the package is not able to meet the individual needs of everyone, it is my customer," said the manager of the Zhongyang package.
2月11日，为加强新冠肺炎疫情源头管控，最大限度减少人员流动，武汉全市范围内所有住宅小区启动实行封闭管理。
On February 11, in order to strengthen the source control of the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic and minimize the movement of people, Wuhan city-wide residential areas initiated the implementation of closed management.
2月18日起，武汉各区超市不再面向个人销售，只接受社区组团购物。
From February 18, Wuhan supermarkets no longer face individual sales, only accept community groups shopping.
这一系列措施意味着，社区基层工作人员刚准备告别分类转运病人的紧张慌乱，转身便要接住保障辖区内居民基本生活的接力棒。
This series of measures means that the community grass-roots workers are just ready to say goodbye to the classification of patients panic, turn around to protect the basic life of the residents of the baton.
郭宏坤（右）正与社区志愿者沟通工作事宜。
Guo Hongkun (right) is communicating with community volunteers about his work.
严控人员进出、帮助居民买菜买药、继续排查上报“四类人员”、协助物业消毒消杀、照顾有困难的特殊人群等等都是社区的工作。
Strict control over the entry and exit of people, help residents buy vegetables to buy medicine, continue to screen and report "four categories of personnel," assist property disinfection and sterilization, care for special groups in difficulty, and so on are community work.
疫情发生以来，朱莉常常觉得身心疲惫，生怕因为疏忽大意，造成局面失控令更多居民感染新冠肺炎。
Since the outbreak, Julie has often felt physically and emotionally drained, fearing that her negligence would cause the situation to spiral out of control and infect more residents with pneumonia.
如今，面对居民个性化的生活需求和情绪宣泄，他们即便难以应对，也不能崩溃。
Today, they are unable, if not overwhelmed, to collapse in the face of their individual needs and emotions.
她曾经尝试理解“武汉嫂子”：“她说得确实没错，每个人的需求不同，我们在这件事上没有考虑得那么周到。
"She was right," she said. "Everyone's needs were different and we weren't so thoughtful about it.
”最终，社区向居民表达了歉意。
Eventually, the community apologized to the residents.
“第一次做，没有把工作做细”滨江苑小区一名曾姓居民向澎湃新闻（www.thepaper.cn）回忆，中百超市曾推出的套餐分别以生鲜和干货为主。
"For the first time, I didn't do a detailed job," recalls a Zeng resident of Binjiang Court, who told SciDev News (www.thepaper.cn) that the package once offered by Zhongbai's supermarket was based on raw and dry goods, respectively.
其中，生鲜套餐300元一份，包括肉类以及蔬菜，但肉类偏少，自己曾买到的套餐只有两三斤排骨。
Among them, the raw package of 300 yuan, including meat and vegetables, but less meat, he has bought only two or three catties of pork chops.
干货套餐则包括大米、酱油、卫生纸等，270元一份。
Dry package includes rice, soy sauce, toilet paper, etc., 270 yuan a copy.
她认为套餐价格偏高，而且由于无法单独购买，总会买到自己不需要的东西，觉得有些浪费。
She felt that the package was expensive and that since she could not buy it alone, she would always buy something she did not need and felt that it was a waste.
她记得，套餐推出两三天后，就因“武汉嫂子汉骂”投诉而取消了：后者在微信群里质疑超市捆绑销售大米、酱油和卫生纸，套餐价格高，社区与业委会沟通不畅、服务不到位。
She remembers that the package was canceled two or three days after the launch of the package because of a complaint filed by her sister-in-law in Wuhan, who questioned the bundling of rice, soy sauce and toilet paper by the supermarket, the high cost of meals, poor communication between the community and the industry council, and inadequate services.
涉事的中百超市店长不愿接受进一步采访。
The head of the Zhong100 supermarket declined to be further interviewed.
她只表示，滨江苑与其他小区相比，社区报来的套餐确实“粗”一些，但超市绝不存在捆绑销售，也没有区分对待，无论哪种套餐，都是生活必备品：“多的什么都没添进去，可能有些人家里有，觉得多了就不舒服。
She only said the package was "rough" compared to other neighborhoods, but there was no bundle or differentiation in the supermarket, and no matter what kind of package, it was a necessity: "There is nothing added to it, maybe some people have more, feel uncomfortable.
”江码社区书记朱莉则感到措手不及：“当时听到群里飙汉腔，心里特别难受，我们第一次接手大型团购，居民人数太多，就直接沿用了他们头一天订过的一个套餐，报给中百，我感觉套餐还是比较合理的，可能只是套餐刚好重复了她家里有的东西，比如酱油醋。
Julie, the Jiangcode community secretary, was taken aback: "It was very hard to hear the crowd racing in the crowd. We first took over a large group purchase, and because the number of residents was too large, we directly followed a package they had ordered the day before.
”江码社区滨江苑小区门口，居民们正排队领取生活物资，一旁的社区工作人员正在进行记录。
Residents queued up to collect supplies at the entrance to the Binjiang Garden neighborhood, where community workers were taking notes.
每每提到被“武汉嫂子”指责的套餐，朱莉都会解释，社区面对的是滨江苑一、二、三期所有业主，即总共2100户、6500多人的服务对象，因此“只能提供必需品”。
Referring to the set meal often blamed by her sister-in-law in Wuhan, Julie explains that the community is faced with all the owners of phases 1, 2 and 3 of Binjiang Court, namely a total of 2,100 households and more than 6,500 people, thus "providing only necessities."
后来，朱莉了解到，“武汉嫂子”一家有5口人，包括老人和小孩。
Later, Julie learned that the "sister-in-law in Wuhan" family of five people, including the elderly and children.
意识到他们需要的生活物资可能更加精细后，她开始理解对方，甚至开始反思：由于精力有限，社区对一大部分健康的居民有所疏漏，跟居民沟通少了，没有通过更多方法去解决居民的生活问题。
Realizing that their needs might be finer, she began to understand each other and even to reflect that, because of her limited energy, the community neglected a large part of the healthy population, communicated less with the population and did not adopt more measures to solve their problems.
最终，社区向居民表达了歉意。
Eventually, the community apologized to the residents.
“汉骂”风波的第二天，据“武汉发布”通报，社区与中百超市协商取消团购套餐，附近的家乐福取而代之成为居民团购的新供货商，其他个性化物资需求由社区代购补齐。
"Han scold" the next day, according to the "Wuhan release," the community and 100 supermarkets negotiated the cancellation of group purchase package, Carrefour has replaced the nearby Carrefour as a new supplier of residential groups, other personalized materials need to be covered by the community.
“需求小纸条”和超级热线对于什么是个性化物资需求，郭宏坤翻出了一本复印册，上面满满当当都是居民希望社区帮忙采购的物资：“如果有人不用手机、不在（微信/网格）群里，或者不团购，我们也可以想办法。
"Demand Notes" and "Super Hotlines" Guo has produced a photocopy of what residents want their communities to buy: "If someone doesn't use a cell phone, isn't in the [micromail / grid] group, or doesn't buy in groups, we can do something about it."
”郭宏坤原是江码社区的残疾人协理员，同事们称他为“一把手”：他十几岁时出车祸，只剩下一条右臂和一条右腿，他的工位被安排在社区办公室最靠近门的第一个座位，2007年就来到社区。
Mr. Kuo, a disability aide from the Jiangyama community, was dubbed 'number one' by his colleagues: 'He had an accident as a teenager, leaving only a right arm and a right leg, and was assigned the first seat near the door in the community office, where he arrived in 2007.
他站起身时，仿佛有两条完整的腿一样稳当，左边袖口插在兜里，看不出残疾。
He stood up as if he had two full legs, with his left cuff in his pocket and no sign of disability.
江码社区附近的一家药房门外，好几名社区工作人员或志愿者正等着排号为居民买药。
Outside a pharmacy near the Jiangyama community, several community workers or volunteers are waiting to be lined up to buy medicine for residents.
2月11日，武汉所有住宅小区启动实行封闭管理。
On February 11, all residential districts in Wuhan began to implement closed management.
2月18日起，武汉各区超市不再面向个人销售，只接受社区组团购物。
From February 18, Wuhan supermarkets no longer face individual sales, only accept community groups shopping.
小区封闭后，郭宏坤负责沟通协调居民的个性化需求。
After the closure of the community, Guo Hongkun is responsible for coordinating the individual needs of residents.
他坚持请居民把要购买的物资写在小纸条上，递给门岗志愿者，由志愿者送来社区，他再安排社区专用车载着志愿者出去买：“虽然复杂一点，但我要保证不能乱，我们吃了太多亏了，（比如）有人明明要五花肉，买回来他又说要排骨。
He insisted that the residents write down the material they want to buy on a piece of paper and give it to the volunteers, who sent them to the community. He arranged for volunteers to go out in a community car.
”小纸条容易丢，郭宏坤便一一复印在A4纸上装订起来。
"Small notes are easy to lose, and Guo Hongkun photocopies one by one on A4 paper and bound.
有空巢老人写：“花生米3斤、黄豆3斤、干子20块、带鱼2条/盒，谢谢。
There is an empty nest elderly wrote: "peanut rice 3 jin, soybean 3 jin, dried seeds 20, fish 2 / box, thank you.
”有人一口气写了16项，肉类和蔬菜3斤起；有人点名叫热干面；还有人点了十包烤馍和两条黄鹤楼“峡谷情”细支香烟。
"Some people wrote about 16 items at one sitting, weighing 3 jin of meat and vegetables; others named it hot and dry noodles; and others ordered ten buns of steamed buns and two rustic cranes of the Yellow Crane Tower.
由于超市进货渠道有限，很多东西不好买。
Many things are hard to buy due to the limited access to supermarkets.
有时看着居民报来长长的清单，郭宏坤惊呆了：“这是要办年夜饭么？都不是生活必需的啊。
Sometimes looking at the long list of residents, Guo Hongkun stunned: "Is this to do New Year's Eve dinner? None of life is necessary ah.
”疫情爆发后，郭宏坤的电话变成了“超级热线”。
After the outbreak, Mr. Kuo's calls became "super hotlines."
社区发布的通知大多附上了他面前的座机电话号码。
Most of the notices issued by the community included the landline telephone number in front of him.
起初，他负责记录居民身体不适的情况，联络社区医生，协助书记朱莉联络街道争取床位。
Initially, he was responsible for keeping track of the residents' health problems, contacting the community doctor and helping the secretary Julie to contact the street for beds.
那时所有人都慌了，任何头疼脑热都会找来。
At that time, everyone panicked, and any headache would be found.
撑了十多天后实在受不了，郭宏坤改为守到晚上10点，再换小区安保人员继续守。
After more than 10 days can not bear, Guo Hongkun to be held until 10 pm, and then change the residential security personnel to continue to guard.
如今这些问题已经解决：只要发现疑似病例，社区可以立即把人送到隔离点，安排做核酸检测和CT。
Now these problems have been solved: whenever a suspected case is detected, the community can immediately send the person to an isolation point and arrange for nucleic acid testing and CT.
郭宏坤开始头疼老百姓的需求：“各种各样的需求，他们不是为了活下去，而是追求高层次、个性化。
"Guo Hongkun began to worry about the needs of the common people:" All kinds of needs, they are not to survive, but to pursue high-level, personalized.
平时无所谓，现在我们哪有精力去满足这些呢？还没谈到娱乐，你别吓我。
Usually does not matter, now how we have the energy to satisfy these? Have not talked about entertainment, do not frighten me.
”他的水杯里浸着厚厚的一层茶叶：“提神用的，不能窜瞌睡。
There was a thick layer of tea leaves in his glass of water: "refreshing.
”中午时分，社区志愿者们坐在社区办公室的长椅上打盹。
At noon, community volunteers dozed off on benches in community offices.
居民们的慌张滨江苑一名罗姓居民表示，自己能理解特殊时期社区的辛苦，但他仍然焦虑。
A resident of the flustered Binjiang area said he understood the hardships of the community during special times, but he was still anxious.
因为他已经宅在家里一个多月，担心自己经营的食品生意“黄了”。
Because he had been at home for more than a month, he worried that his food business was "yellow."
没有收入来源，而且还在还贷款。
There was no source of income and loans were being repaid.
最近一次，他给社区递纸条，希望买一箱可口可乐、三袋热干面、六瓶茶π饮料，三袋牛肉干和一袋味精，最后却只收到一袋味精。
On a recent trip, he handed the community a note hoping to buy a box of Coca-Cola, three bags of hot-and-dry noodles, six bottles of tea-branded drinks, three bags of dried beef and a bag of monosodium glutamate.
他也曾浏览过网上商超推出的套餐，却发现主要是各种肉类、蔬菜，几乎没有其他选择，而他平时很少做饭。
He has also browsed online shopping packages but has found that he has little choice, mainly meat and vegetables, which he seldom cooks.
对他来说，洗漱用品、速食、饮料就是日常。
For him, toiletries, snacks and drinks were the order of the day.
有时烟瘾一上来，没烟抽的滋味更难受：“社区的工作不可能让每个人都满意，但疫情这么长，大家都需要志愿者的帮助，做不好可以学，只希望能满足大众需求。
Sometimes when it comes to nicotine addiction, the taste of not smoking is worse: "Community work can't satisfy everyone, but the epidemic is so long that everyone needs the help of volunteers to learn, not to learn, but to meet the needs of the public.
”小区实施全封闭管理，大家从未见识过这样的场面，部分居民不止焦虑，甚至开始出现情绪崩溃的迹象。
The neighborhood is under total closure, as no one has ever seen before, and some residents are not only anxious, but are even showing signs of emotional collapse.
郭宏坤接到过一通电话，有居民要30个鸡蛋、2斤胡萝卜、2斤土豆、3斤苹果、一个大白菜、一个包菜。
Guo Hongkun received a telephone call, there are residents to 30 eggs, 2 jin carrots, 2 catties of potatoes, 3 jin of apples, a cabbage, a cabbage.
这名居民说自己已经八天没有采购，实在受不了了，已经跟超市“打好招呼”，确定能买到，要求社区立即派人去买。
The resident, who said he had not purchased for eight days, was "hailing" the supermarket to make sure it was available and asked the community to send someone to buy it immediately.
考虑到社区人手紧张，郭宏坤便答应第二天去。
Given the community's tight manpower, Guo Hongkun promised to go the next day.
对方却怎么也不听，根本不让他插话，他只好把电话交给社区志愿者，对方没说两句又开始讲起了英文。
But the other side did not listen, did not allow him to interrupt, he had to give the phone to the community volunteers, the other side did not say a word began to speak English.
挂电话前，这名居民要求社区帮忙把垃圾扔下去。
Before hanging up, the resident asked the community to help throw the trash down.
一名小区保安用额温枪测量体温为38℃，周围人一下炸了锅，赶紧把他安排到物业单间宿舍，找来水银温度计，每两小时量一次体温，但一整天都没有超过37℃，也没有其他症状。
A residential security guard with a frontal temperature of 38 degrees Celsius, the surrounding people blew up the pot, quickly put him into a single room quarters, find mercury thermometers, every two hours, but no more than 37 degrees Celsius throughout the day, and no other symptoms.
物业便继续安排保安上班，结果郭宏坤不断接到居民投诉，要求将其开除。
The property continued to be arranged for security guards to work. As a result, Mr Kwok continued to receive complaints from residents demanding his dismissal.
部分居民不相信小区会定期进行消毒消杀，要求社区拍照证明，郭宏坤只好建议物业消毒时喊喇叭提醒居民。
Some residents do not believe that the community will carry out regular disinfection and sterilization, requiring community photo certificate, Guo Hongkun had to advise property disinfection when shouting horns to remind residents.
2月初，小区走了一位独居老人，去世前曾出现过发热，但核酸检测为阴性。
At the beginning of February, the community walked a solitary old man, before his death had a fever, but nucleic acid testing negative.
为小心起见，物业给楼栋走廊做了一次消杀。
To be on the safe side, the property gave the building corridor a sanitization.
时隔近半个月后，邻居仍不放心，开始给社区打电话，担心房里“养了一屋子病毒”，要求给老人家里也消消毒。
Nearly half a month later, neighbors still feel uneasy, began to call the community, worried that the house "a room of virus", asked for the old people to also eliminate disinfection.
郭宏坤没办法，后来邻居们举报到了市长热线。
Guo Hongkun has no way, later neighbors reported to the mayor's hotline.
郭宏坤说，最近听说整栋楼都在找老人的儿子。
Mr. Kuo said he had heard recently that the entire building was looking for the old man's son.
郭宏坤很头疼：“怎么说呢？草木皆兵啊，一点科学常识都没有了。
Guo Hongkun very headache: "How to say? Grass all soldiers ah, a little scientific common sense is gone.
”国家卫生健康委专家组成员、北京地坛医院感染二科主任医师蒋荣猛曾向媒体介绍，病毒通过飞沫或接触传播，飞沫离开人体后，很快会沉降，不会在空中漂浮。
Jiang Rong, a member of the National Health Council's panel of experts and director of Infection Division II at Beijing Ditan Hospital, told the media that the virus spreads through droplets or contact.
研究发现，病毒在人高频接触的地方（如电梯按钮、门把手等）存活时间长，在光滑物体表面只能存活数小时到五天不等。
The study found that viruses survive for long periods at high-frequency human contact (e.g. elevator buttons, door handles, etc.) and for periods ranging from a few hours to five days on a smooth surface.
最忙碌的一天，李达吉为32户重症、22户轻症居民买回的药品。
At his busiest day, Li bought medicine for 32 critically ill and 22 light-hearted residents.
重症慢病者的用药保障小区封闭管理后，武汉市其他重症、慢性病患者购药一度成为难题。
After the closed management of patients with severe and chronic diseases, other patients with severe and chronic diseases in Wuhan had become a difficult problem.
2月27日中午12点左右，江码社区工作人员李达吉来到附近药房，跟进志愿者领号排队。
February 27 around 12: 00 noon, Jiangyama community workers Li Daji came to the nearby pharmacy, follow up on the volunteer collar line.
他负责给社区居民买药送药。
He was responsible for buying medicine for the community.
天空飘着淅淅沥沥的小雨，志愿者身上挂着雨衣，手上攥着“15”的排号，一上午才排到5号：“第一个人就买了50户的药。
As the sky drizzled, volunteers hung raincoats and held the number "15" in their hands before reaching No.5 one morning: "The first person bought 50 pills
”药店大门开了一半，一张桌子横放在门口，买药的人在这里登记后拿药，门帘是放下来的，只能透过落地窗看到里面的景象。
Halfway through the entrance to the drugstore, a table lay across the door, where drug buyers checked in to get the medicine.
李达吉说，别看排队的人不多：“每个人手上至少有几十个单子。
'Everyone has at least a few dozen lists on hand, 'Mr. Lidagi says.
”这段时间最忙的一天，他曾接到32户重症、22户轻症其他疾病患者的用药需求，每人还有一份清单。
In his busiest day of the year, he received a list of 32 cases of severe and 22 light illnesses and a list of each.
那天，他全部买完送到已是凌晨两三点。
It was two or three o'clock in the morning when he finished buying them.
他更担心的是“扑空”。
He was more worried about "parachuting."
为尽量一次性买齐药品，他一般先跑药品相对充足的大药店，有时也会加小药店微信，抽空打听他们的供货情况。
To get as much medicine as he can, he would first run through a large drugstore with plenty of medicine and sometimes add a small drugstore letter to find out what they were getting.
据长江日报报道，起初武汉市只有两家重症慢病定点药店，其中汉口大药房黄石路店提供的药品最齐全（包括10个病种：高血压、糖尿病、血管介入术、乙肝、丙肝、肝硬化、恶性肿瘤、慢阻肺、肾移植术后、帕金森）。
According to the Changjiang Daily, at first there were only two designated pharmacies in Wuhan, among which Huangshi Lu, Hankou big pharmacy, offered the most complete range of medicines (including 10 diseases: hypertension, diabetes, vascular intervention, hepatitis B, C, cirrhosis, malignant neoplasm, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, kidney transplantation, Parkinson).
然而购药供需矛盾日渐明显，于是武汉分别于2月11日、24日和25日扩展重症慢病定点药店至50家，并确保这些药店可以使用医保。
However, the contradiction between supply and demand for medicines became increasingly apparent, so Wuhan extended the number of designated pharmacies for severe chronic diseases to 50 on February 11, 24 and 25, respectively, and ensured their access to health care.
李达吉的实际感觉是，定点药店增加后，重症慢病药确实好买了，但仍面临排队时间长、需辗转不同药店买药、部分药品不齐全、药品厂家和规格与居民需求不符等问题。
Lidagi's real sense is that, with the increase in the number of designated pharmacies, severe chronic diseases are indeed available, but they still face long queues, the need to transfer medicines from different pharmacies, incomplete medicines, and the fact that the manufacturers and specifications of medicines do not match the needs of the population.
前两个问题李达吉累一点还可以勉强解决，但如果药店只能提供其他厂家规格的药，他会先帮居民买下来：“因为没有那么多时间判断。
The first two questions Lee barely managed to solve, but if the drugstore could only offer drugs of other manufacturers' specifications, he would buy them for the residents: "Because there wasn't much time to judge.
”送药时，他再叮嘱居民仔细遵照说明服用。
When the medicine was delivered, he directed the inhabitants to observe the directions carefully.
李达吉每天都要加几十个好友，有用药需求的居民通常会点对点找到他。
Mr. Li adds dozens of friends a day, and residents who need drugs often point to him.
除了重症慢病，普通药物也有需求。
In addition to severe chronic diseases, there is a demand for common drugs.
因此他每天要看很多微信，如果看后不能及时处理，他就先置顶聊天，等有时间再处理。
Therefore, he has to read a lot of micro-letters every day, if he can not deal with them promptly, he first put a roof chat, waiting for time to deal with it.
社区的其他工作人员心疼李达吉，因为他已经很久没好好睡过觉。
The rest of the community felt sorry for Lidaghi because he had not slept well for a long time.
李达吉说，自己也想找人帮忙，毕竟买药的工作更细致，绝对不能出错。
'I also want to get help, 'he said.' After all, the drug-buying process is more detailed and must not go wrong.
但志愿者大多不愿意做：“大家认为买药比其他工作风险更大。
But volunteers were mostly reluctant to do it: "People think buying drugs is riskier than other jobs.
”2月底，社区新招募了十位志愿者，却没能帮上李达吉，因为全部被安排在社区测体温。
At the end of February, the community recruited 10 new volunteers, but was unable to help Lidagi because they were all placed in the community to have their body temperature taken.
三十几个党员下沉干部则忙着轮班守门、分发物资和维持秩序。
Thirty or so Party members were engaged in shifts to guard doors, distribute supplies and maintain order.
李达吉很无奈：“封闭小区真的是头等大事。
Li Daji is very helpless: "Closed community is really the most important thing.
”“武汉嫂子”当了志愿者2月下旬，江码社区滨江苑曾有一名居民冒充志愿者溜出了社区。
"Sister-in-law in Wuhan became a volunteer. In late February, a resident of Riverside Park in Jiangyama District slipped out of the community disguised as a volunteer.
社区专用车司机潘师傅回忆，这名“假志愿者”拿着社区开的代购证明进了超市，等他推着满满当当的两车物资出来时，潘师傅才意识到被“忽悠”了：“每种东西只买了一样，比如排骨，就买了一整块，其他都是一份，不像别人（志愿者）的的确确为大家服务。
Pam, a driver of a community car, recalled that the "fake volunteer" entered the supermarket with a purchase certificate issued by the community, and when he came out with two carts full of goods, Master Pan realized he was being tricked: "You buy just one thing, like a chop of pork chops, and everything else is a piece, unlike other people who are really serving you.
”这件事把社区的工作人员们气得够呛。
"The whole staff of the community was choked with anger.
有工作人员形容这是因为居民“在家快被逼疯了”。
Some say it is because residents are "almost driven mad at home."
郭宏坤介绍，目前可以出入小区的人员仅限于防疫工作者、需要紧急送医的居民，以及其他社区无法协助解决的特殊情况（如必须本人去医院取处方药等）。
At present, access to the community is limited to epidemic prevention workers, residents in need of emergency medical care and special circumstances that other communities cannot assist in resolving (such as having to go to a hospital for prescription drugs, for example), Guo said.
防疫工作者展示单位证明后，只要测量体温正常即可出入。
After the vaccination workers show the unit certificate, as long as the normal temperature can enter and leave.
其他情况同样需要向社区提供证明材料。
In other cases, there is also a need to provide communities with documentation.
但他也碰上过几次例外，有人总能想出冠冕堂皇的理由混出去。
But he also encountered a few exceptions, some people always think of a high-sounding reasons to get out.
他想不明白有些居民为什么一定要出去：“外面啥也没有。
He wondered why some of the inhabitants must go out: There is nothing outside.
”他后来又转念一想：“唉，被关了一个多月了。
Then he turned to himself and said, "Alas, for more than a month I have been confined.
”“武汉嫂子汉骂”事件后，社区书记朱莉曾和这位“嫂子”打过一次电话。
"After the incident, Julie, the community secretary, made a phone call to her sister-in-law.
她记得对方提到，长时间待在家照顾5口人，需要的物资不仅多且细，精神情绪上的压力也很大。
She remembers being at home to care for five people for long periods of time, requiring not only lots and lots of material, but also lots of emotional stress.
朱莉慢慢开始理解“嫂子”。
Julie slowly began to understand her sister-in-law.
她也会辩证看待这次事件，将它看作一次提醒：不仅要解决问题，还要通过更多方式有效地解决问题：“如果大家都能通过这件事意识到差距或者做得不周到的地方，也不是一件坏事。
She will also view the incident dialectically, viewing it as a reminder not only to solve the problem, but also to address it effectively in more ways: "It would not be a bad thing if everyone were to be aware of the gaps or the ineptitude with which they did it."
”“武汉嫂子”所属单位的一名负责人介绍，目前“嫂子”已成为一名社区志愿者，加入社区防疫工作。
"Sister-in-law in Wuhan has become a volunteer in the community, said a person in charge of her unit.
2月27日，李达吉向记者展示江码社区当天接到的最新通知：为避免人群过于集中，即日起，社区除套餐外的个性化团购将缩减为每三天一次。
Li told reporters February 27, the Jiangyama community received the latest notice: to avoid the crowd too concentrated, that is, the community in addition to the package of personalized purchase will be reduced to every three days.
朱莉很想念从前的武汉：“我再也不会嫌弃马路上车太多跑不快了，非常怀念，我觉得那种生活特别特别美好。
Julie very much miss the former Wuhan: "I will never hate to abandon the road too much to run fast, very miss, I think that kind of life is particularly beautiful.
”她最想对居民说，也许社区做得不太完美，但社区最大的希望就是和居民一起战胜疫情，早日回到“人流汹涌、车水马龙”的生活。
She most wanted to tell residents that perhaps the community was not doing too well, but its greatest hope was to work with residents to overcome the epidemic and return to a crowded, crowded life.
戳这里进入“全国新型冠状病毒感染病例实时地图”↓↓↓本期编辑 常琛推荐阅读。
Dell Compute Plot Here into Dell Computers Computation of New-style Cases of Coronavirus Infection in the Country
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“武汉嫂子汉骂”火了后，成了社区志愿者。
"Wuhan sister-in-law Han scold" after the fire, became community volunteers.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "“武汉嫂子汉骂”火了后，成了社区志愿者";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "武汉市江岸区江码社区火了。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Jiangyao community fire in Wuhan city.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '“湖北疫情依旧严峻，坚决不能放松”',。
"Hubei still has a serious epidemic and resolutely not to relax" & amp; apos; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '湖北：监狱、看守所原则上只进不出',。
Hubei: Not at all in prison or detention centre.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '3省5个监狱共确诊555例，司法部谈疫情细节漏洞',。
Ritle: & apos; 555 cases were diagnosed in five prisons in three provinces. & nbsp; & # 160; & # 45; & Justice & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
