滞留40天，一觉醒来，还在武汉。
After 40 days of detention, I woke up in Wuhan.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
实习生 张卓 澎湃新闻记者 任雾滞留在武汉四十天了，陈欣觉得每天都像是在“坐牢”。
Intern Zhang Zhuo Peng Pai journalists left fog in Wuhan for 40 days, Chen Xin felt like every day in "prison."
身上还穿着四十天前匆忙离开咸宁时没来得及换的睡衣，那天，陈欣四个半月大的女儿发烧发到了40.7度，把她急坏了，和丈夫、母亲穿着睡衣便开车去了医院。
Dressed in her pyjamas, which she had left in a hurry 40 days before, Chen Xin's four and a half-month-old daughter had a fever of 40.7 degrees. She became so anxious that she drove to the hospital with her husband and mother in pajamas.
先去了老家咸宁嘉鱼县的医院，做了检查后，医生说可能是脑炎，建议马上送武汉问诊。
First went to his hometown Xiangning Jiayu County hospital, did an examination, the doctor said that it may be encephalitis, recommendations immediately sent to Wuhan for medical treatment.
陈欣从未想过，本是去武汉求医却被困在这里，还差点流落街头。
Chen Xin never thought that this was going to Wuhan to seek medical treatment but was trapped here, almost living on the street.
一边是还未痊愈的女儿，另外一边是在家生病的父亲。
On one side was the daughter, who had not yet recovered, and on the other was the sick father at home.
陈欣和其他同样滞留在武汉的外地人聚集在一个500人群里，他们都有一个共同的渴望：回家。
Chen and other outsiders, also stranded in Wuhan, gathered in a crowd of 500 with a common desire: to return home.
“封城”时刻这些“滞留者”们因为各种原因在封城前进入武汉，有人来看病；有人来探亲；还有人来旅行；也有人是在封城后下错了高速被围困在这里，他们都焦急等待着出去的那一天。
At the time of the "closure" of the city for a variety of reasons, these "stranded" people in front of the city to enter Wuhan, people to visit patients, people to travel, or people after the closure of the city under the wrong speed under siege here, they are anxious to go out of the day.
1月17日，在广东江门的梁秀文出发前往武汉探亲。
January 17, in Jiangmen, Guangdong, Liang Xiuwen departure for Wuhan family visit.
姐姐的婆家在武汉，年前姐姐回到武汉备产二胎。
Sister's mother-in-law in Wuhan, the former sister back to Wuhan to give birth to two children.
梁秀文想带着父母和孩子来探望姐姐，顺便开车把姐姐在广东念书的大儿子带来，然后一大家子一起过年。
Liang Xiuwen wanted to take her parents and children to visit her sister and bring her eldest son, who was studying in Guangdong Province, to celebrate the New Year together.
出发前，梁秀文就看到有关武汉“不明原因肺炎”的新闻，有点担心，就打电话和姐姐问问情况。
Before leaving, Liang Xiuwen saw Wuhan "unknown causes of pneumonia" news, a bit worried, on the phone and sister to ask the situation.
姐姐说，“新闻上公告过了，说是谣言，已经把几个人抓起来了，没事的，我们都没事”。
My sister said, "It was announced in the news that it was a rumor, that a few people have been arrested, it's all right, we are all right."
姐姐连着说了几次没事，打消了梁秀文心里的顾虑。
Her sister said several times nothing, removed Liang Xiuwen's heart of concern.
刚来到武汉，因为姐姐家住在乡下，所以也没有感受到疫情的紧张，“过来一看还是和以前一样，没什么变化”。
Just came to Wuhan, because my sister's home in the countryside, so did not feel the tension of the epidemic, "come and look at the same as before, nothing changed."
在封城的前一天，姐姐的二胎出生了，姐夫的弟弟一家也来了，三家人都在为新生感到喜悦。
The day before the city was sealed, her sister's second child was born and her brother-in-law's brother-in-law arrived, all three rejoicing in the new life.
一大家子聚在一起，十分热闹，还没过年，就已经开始有了年味。
A large family gathered together, very busy, before the New Year, has begun to smell.
23日早上，梁秀文醒来后看到了十点封城的消息，这一刻她才意识到这次疫情可能不同寻常，已经到了要封城的地步，她开始有点慌了，和家人商量要不要趁还有点时间赶快走。
On the morning of the 23rd, when Liang woke up and saw the news of the 10 o'clock closure, she realized that the outbreak might be unusual and had reached the point where she was about to close the city.
“我们当时讨论说应该不会封太久，而且本来也是打算在这边过年，刚来没几天就走，也不太好意思。
"We were talking about not being closed for too long and we were going to be here for the New Year," he said.
”她回忆。
'she recalled.
于是，梁秀文一家留了下来。
So Liang Xiuwen's family stayed.
此时，武汉妇幼保健院里，陈欣和母亲、丈夫，正在病房里陪着他们四个半月大的宝宝。
At this time, Wuhan maternal and child health care home, Chen Xin and her mother, husband, are with them in the ward four and a half months old baby.
眼看着原本住着四位病人的病房里，其他家庭渐渐离去，最后只剩下他们一家。
Watching the four-patient ward, the other families gradually left, leaving only their family.
去武汉前，陈欣和丈夫也一直在微博上关注疫情，但当时还没有说“人传人”，“我们想大概就和甲流差不多吧，没想那么多，就赶往了武汉”。
Before going to Wuhan, Chen Xin and her husband had been watching the epidemic on Weibo, but they had not yet said "person-to-person". "We thought it was about the same as A-liu.
1月20日，陈欣的女儿在武汉市妇幼保健院被诊断为脓毒血症，住进了ICU，要等着做一个腰穿手术。
On January 20, Chen Xin's daughter was diagnosed with sepsis at Wuhan Maternal and Child Health Care Hospital and admitted to ICU, where she was to undergo a waist-piercing operation.
陈欣女儿所在的病房，住了4位病人，封城那天早上，邻床一个小朋友的妈妈催着护士赶快打完了针，说他们要赶在十点前出城回家。
Chen Xin's daughter's ward, which housed four patients, closed the city that morning, a friend's mother urged the nurse to finish the needles, saying they had to leave town before 10 o'clock.
陈欣回忆，那天医院清了一部分病人离开，同病房一个两个半月的宝宝，刚从ICU出来没几天，也被劝着回家了。
Chen recalled that the hospital that day cleared part of the patient left, with the ward of a two and a half-month baby, just a few days out of the ICU, was also persuaded to go home.
而在几天前，医生还告知陈欣做好在医院过年的准备，因为女儿的烧还没有退，打的是需要用机器辅助的最高阶的抗生素，老家的医院没有这类设备。
A few days ago, doctors told Chen Xin that she was ready to spend the New Year at the hospital because her daughter's fever had not yet returned.
因此，封城的消息并没有给陈欣一家带来太多心里的波澜，“我们想着封城也就封一两周吧，到时候宝宝也好了，我们就可以回去了”。
Therefore, the news of the closure of the city did not bring the Chen Xin family too much mental waves, "we think the closure of the city for a week or two, when the baby is well, we can go back.
每天晚上，陈欣和女儿挤在一张床上，母亲坐在旁边的椅子上。
Every night, Chen Xin and her daughter huddled together in a bed, and her mother sat on a nearby chair.
刚开始几天陈欣丈夫是坐在走廊的椅子上睡觉，封城后，医院说为了防止交叉感染，只能留一位家属，但陈欣一个人又照顾不好女儿，就让母亲一起留下，丈夫则去车上睡了。
After Chen Xin's husband was sleeping in a chair in the corridor for a few days, the hospital said that in order to prevent cross-infection, only one family member could be left.
女儿还一直在发烧，晚上经常会哭，有一次哭得很厉害，把周围的小朋友和家人都吵醒了，陈欣和母亲只能带着女儿去走廊，抱着她走来走去，等她睡着了，再回到病房。
Chen Xin and her mother could only take their daughter to the corridor and hold her up and down. When she fell asleep, she returned to the ward.
除夕夜，陈欣的女儿打完针睡了。
On New Year's Eve, Chen Xin's daughter finished her needles and slept.
她想起女儿前两天做腰穿的场景，一根很长的针插进那么小的身体，从骨缝里将脑脊髓抽出来，女儿不停地哭，她也不停地哭。
She remembered her daughter's waist two days before, a long needle stuck into such a small body, pulling out the spinal cord from the bone, her daughter crying, and she kept crying.
她睡不着，白天周边敞亮，心情还好，到夜里，整个世界都是灰暗的。
She could not sleep, her surroundings were bright during the day, she was in a good mood, and at night the whole world was gray.
起身站到窗边，望着窗外那条在封城前格外喧哗的街道，近日来变得一片沉寂。
He rose and stood by the window, and looked out upon the street, which was so noisy in front of the enclosure, which had become quite silent in recent days.
陈欣除夕站在窗前拍的夜景。
Chen Xin New Year's Eve standing in front of the window.
遥遥无期的围困陈欣觉得“封城”后的这段时间，像是过了十年。
The endless siege of Chen Xin felt that the "closed city" after the period, like a decade.
1月29日，医生找陈欣谈话，建议她带着女儿回家。
On January 29, the doctor talked to Chen Xin and advised her to take her daughter home.
陈欣感到困惑，不用等到抗生素降级后再走吗？医生隐晦地表达了待在医院可能会更危险，让他们自己权衡。
Was Chen perplexed not to wait until the antibiotics were demoted? The doctors vaguely expressed the danger of staying in the hospital and left them to weigh it against themselves.
新冠肺炎疫情越来越严重，他们所在的这层病房之前有小孩感染了肺炎，陈欣和丈夫商量帮女儿办理出院。
Chen discussed with her husband to help her daughter get out of the hospital ward, where a child had contracted pneumonia.
第二天，陈欣带着女儿出院了，女儿的病情还未稳定下来，他们一家四口又碰上了难题——“在武汉没有家，那我们住哪？”她打了很多家酒店的电话，没有一家愿意接收。
The next day, Chen Xin and her daughter left the hospital, her daughter's illness has not stabilized, the family of four encountered a dilemma - "no home in Wuhan, where do we live?" She made a lot of hotel calls, none of which would accept.
陈欣打电话求助，希望在说明情况后申请出武汉回家。
Chen Xin called for help, hoping to clarify the situation after applying out of Wuhan home.
她打了市长热线、交管局打到疾控中心、社区、求助站……电话打过去，对方总是会给她下一个电话，一圈打下来又回到了原点，“你打市长热线问问吧”。
She called the mayor's hotline, the agency called the CDC, the community, the help station... the caller would always call her next time, the ring would come back to the origin, "You call the mayor's hotline to ask."
陈欣看着自己还在发烧的宝宝，想若是自己一个人经受这一切都没关系，但是宝宝还这么小。
Chen Xin looked at her feverish baby and thought it wouldn't matter if she was alone, but the baby was still so young.
“再这样下去过两天要抱着宝宝在街上流浪了……我该怎么样，帮帮我吧”，陈欣无助地发了一条求助微博。
"After two more days of this to take the baby wandering in the street...... how should I, help me," Chen Xin helplessly issued a micro-blog for help.
出院那天晚上，陈欣一家就先在车上“凑和”了一晚。
On the night of their discharge from hospital, the Chen Xin family first made do with one night in the car.
第二天，有朋友看到了她的微博，说自己的房子空着，备用的钥匙在门口的地毯下，让陈欣一家去住。
The next day, a friend saw her Weibo, said his house is empty, spare keys in the doorway carpet, let the Chen Xin family live.
总算是有了住的地方，但问题依然接踵而至。
At last there was a place to live, but problems still followed.
有天晚上，陈欣的父亲一个人在家心脏病发作，给陈欣发微信说身体动不了了，头是木的。
One night, Chen Xin's father had a heart attack at home. He told Chen Xin-fat that he could not move his body.
陈欣帮父亲打了120，但社区上门登记后听到陈欣父亲是从广州回来的，就走了。
Chen Xin helped his father call 120, but after the community door-to-door registration heard that Chen Xin's father came back from Guangzhou, and left.
那晚，陈欣也不敢挂父亲的电话，时不时地说几句话，确认父亲安好。
That night, Chen Xin did not dare to hang up her father's telephone, saying a few words now and then to confirm his father's well.
直到父亲吃了药说自己好转了，有点困意，陈欣才挂了电话。
Chen Xin hung up the phone until his father took the medicine and said he was feeling better and sleepy.
比陈欣更着急着回家的是她母亲，一面是发病的父亲，另一边是身体一直不好的外公。
Even more anxious than Chen Xin was her mother, the ailing father on the one hand and her ailing grandfather on the other.
母亲晚上睡不着，“她就像一只猫头鹰一样坐在那里”，坐在那里一发呆就是半天。
Mother couldn't sleep at night. "She sat there like an owl." She sat there for a long time.
外公年前刚做过心脏搭桥手术，最近心脏病复发在家里吸氧。
Grandfather just had heart bypass surgery, recently heart disease recurrence at home to absorb oxygen.
陈欣母亲也不敢让两位老人独自去医院，母亲边和外婆打电话边哭，陈欣也想哭，但怕自己哭起来母亲更收不住了，只能在一旁咬着嘴唇强忍着。
Chen Xin's mother did not dare to let the two old people go to the hospital alone. Mother was crying on the phone with her grandmother.
最近这段时间，外婆外公都是靠邻居们“投食”，楼上楼下谁家有多的菜就往外公外婆门口放一点，敲敲门就走了。
These days, grandparents rely on neighbors to "feed", upstairs and downstairs who has more dishes to the grandmother's door put a little, knock on the door and left.
陈欣说，若是能一家人在一起，那自己可以照顾宝宝和父亲，母亲可以去照顾外公外婆，但是现在相隔两地，力使不到一起，太无力了。
'If you can stay together, you can take care of the baby and the father, the mother can take care of the maternal grandparents, but now you're too far apart to be together, too weak, "Chen said.
梁秀文也越来越心慌。
Liang Xiuwen became increasingly nervous.
每天早上醒来第一件事情便是看看疫情实时数据，她的心被不断成倍增长的感染人数揪着，焦虑也随之成倍增长。
The first thing she wakes up every morning is to look at real-time data on the epidemic. Her heart is gripped by the multiplying number of infections, and anxiety multiplies.
前两天梁秀文做了个梦，梦到自己踩单车回到了江门的家里。
Two days ago Liang Xiuwen had a dream that he was riding his bicycle back to his home in Jiangmen.
但梦醒时分，依然是在武汉。
But when I woke up, it was still in Wuhan.
5岁的女儿刚来的时候还很开心，整日和亲戚家的几个小孩混在一起玩。
When her five-year-old daughter arrived happy, she spent the day hanging out with some of her relatives' children.
最近，开始玩倦了，加上家里水果蔬菜紧缺，女儿叫着好久没有吃到肉了，还想吃柚子，总追着她问，“妈妈，我们什么时候才能回到自己家？”每天三家十几口人要一起吃饭。
Recently, tired of playing games and the shortage of fruits and vegetables at home, she cried for a long time without eating meat, and wanted to eat grapefruit.
餐桌坐不下，只能分批吃，老人小孩先吃，剩下的人再吃。
Table can not sit, can only eat batches, the old children eat first, the rest of the people eat.
梁秀文每天也不好意思多吃，觉得自己一家五口住在姐姐婆家给人添了不少麻烦。
Liang Xiuwen every day also embarrassed to eat more, think his family of five people living in my sister-in-law's home to add a lot of trouble.
“你看这么一大家子人，我们再吃下去都要把人家吃空了，现在东西又不好买”，村子里实行管控，只有村口小卖部的老板能隔几天出去进一次货，保障村子里居民的物资。
"You see such a large family, we will eat more empty, now things are not easy to buy." In the village control, only the owner of the village commissary can go out every few days to secure the goods of the villagers.
“蔬菜大多都是二十几块一斤，连土豆都要七、八块一斤。
"Vegetables are mostly 20 yuan a catty. Even potatoes cost seven or eight pounds a catty.
”另一边，回不去的这一个月多月时间里，房租、员工工资加上还贷款，梁秀文支出了5万多块，“如果再不回去我就要破产了”。
"On the other hand, over the past month or so, with rent, staff salaries and loan repayments, Liang spent more than 50,000 yuan," If I don't go back, I'll go bankrupt.
2月20日，江门政府取消对重点疫情地区人员来江门的限制，逐步开始复工。
On February 20, the Jiangmen government lifted restrictions on people coming to Jiangmen in key epidemic areas and gradually began to resume work.
梁秀文听到其他在家做个体户的朋友们都陆陆续续开始开门营业，她更加着急了。
Liang Xiuwen heard that other self-employed people at home are gradually opening up to business, she was even more anxious.
城内的挣扎黄亮是湖北孝感人，来武汉务工的三年里，他做过建筑工人、也做过临时保安。
The city's struggle Huang Liang is Hubei filial piety, came to Wuhan three years of labor, he did construction workers, also did temporary security.
原本计划在23号回家，因为武汉离家近，黄亮回家的票都是随走随买。
Originally planned to go home on the 23rd, because Wuhan is close to home, Huang Liang went home with the ticket is on the go.
1月23号他一觉醒来已是11点多，看了新闻推送才知道“封城”了，回不去了。
January 23 when he woke up more than 11 o'clock, read the news push just know "closed", can not go back.
比起回不了家，更让黄亮感到恐惧的是，无法出门挣钱。
Rather than go home, let Huang Liang fear is unable to go out to earn money.
原本就是有一搭没一搭做着一些临时工，手里也没有太多积蓄，如果“封城”封得久了，自己可能要撑不下去了。
Originally there was no set up some temporary workers, hands do not have much savings, if "closed" for a long time, may not be able to sustain themselves.
正月初五，黄亮住在一个小区里的朋友说雷神山那边在招临时工人，黄亮正愁着哪里找点活挣钱，于是就跟着朋友一起去了雷神山。
On the fifth day of the first month, Huang Liang lived in a small area of friends said that Lei Shenshan in the recruitment of temporary workers, Huang Liang is worried about where to find some live to earn money, so went with friends to Lei Shenshan.
黄亮回忆，自己去做工的那两天，那边真的是人山人海。
Huang Liang recollects, oneself go to work that two days, over there is really a sea of people.
他当时看着那么多的人，感到很疑惑：为什么政府把商场都关闭，呼吁居民们都要隔离，不要聚集，街上空无一人，但工地上这么多的人，人与人之间都离得那么近？每天工作八九个小时，黄亮说也并不是很累，“人多啊，全是靠人堆起来的”。
He looked at so many people and wondered: Why did the government close all the shopping malls, appeal to the residents to be isolated and not to congregate, and the streets were empty, but so many people on the construction site were so close to each other that Huang Liang said he was not very tired.
在雷神山做工的那两天，是“封城”以来黄亮吃得最好的两天。
In the two days of the work in Raytheon Mountain, is the "closed city" since Huang Liang eat the best two days.
做了两天后，雷神山那边说不需要临时工了，黄亮又失业了。
After doing it for two days, there was no need for temporary workers on the other side of Raytheon Mountain. Huang Liang lost his job again.
28岁的王天明是在“封城”后进入武汉的，为了早点回去赚钱。
Wang Tianming, 28, entered Wuhan after "sealing the city" in order to return to earn money earlier.
他家在离武汉100多公里的天门，过去一年他在武汉做快递众包骑手，1月10日，他在武汉租的房子到期了，他就先回家过年了。
His home in Tianmen, more than 100 kilometers away from Wuhan, where he worked as a express-delivery crowdsourcing rider for the past year, ended January 10 when his rented house in Wuhan expired.
过完年，他在家憋不住了，想着继续回武汉送外卖，可能这段时间外卖员少，自己还能多赚点。
After the New Year, he was stifling at home, thinking of continuing to send back to Wuhan to deliver takeaway, perhaps this time of staff, he can earn more.
“当时很多地方信息都还不畅通，好像也没有现在这么可怕，就回来了”。
"A lot of places back then were not as well informed, as if they weren't as terrible as they are now," he said.
当时虽然已经“封城”，但进城没有限制。
Though the city was closed, there was no restriction on entering the city.
2月1日，他搭着一位朋友的便车回到了武汉。
On 1 February, he hitchhiked back to Wuhan with a friend.
但等到了武汉，王天明发现情况和自己想象的完全不同。
But by Wuhan, Wang Tianming found that the situation and their own imagination completely different.
下车后，他先去找自己的电动车，发现找不到了。
After getting off the bus, he went to find his own electric car and found that he could not find it.
再回到之前租房的地方，房主说不能续租了。
Back in the former rented space, the owner said it could not be renewed.
他就先住进了汉口火车站附近的一家旅馆，一天50元，还在他的承受范围内。
He stayed at a hotel near Hankou railway station for 50 yuan a day, which he could not afford.
那天，入住旅馆后，他去超市买了食物，刚出超市，看到有一个50多岁的男人在旁边翻垃圾桶，那人说，“现在连垃圾桶里都没有吃的了”。
That day, after check-in, he went to the supermarket to buy food, just got out of the supermarket, and saw a man in his fifties rummaging through the garbage can next to him.
他觉得挺可怜的，就把自己刚买的一包食物递了过去。
He felt sorry for himself and handed over a bag of food he had just bought.
那个男人说，“谢谢，我好几天没吃饭了”，王天明转回超市又重新给自己买了一包。
"Thank you," said the man. "I haven't eaten in days." Wang returned to the supermarket and bought a new bag for himself.
他又尝试在自如、蛋壳上面租房子，但都失败了。
He tried again to rent a house on top of a comfortable eggshell, but failed.
到了2月23日，王天明花光了身上所有的4000块钱，他决定走路回家。
On February 23rd Wang Tianming ran out of all his 4000 yuan and decided to go home on foot.
这些年来，王天明在外面闯惯了，16岁时，他辍学去广东打工，有过从东莞黑砖厂逃出来，走路去惠州的经历，所以他觉得从武汉回天门也并非难事。
Over the years, Wang Tian Ming outside the accustomed, at 16 years old, he dropped out of school to work in Guangdong, there have been from the Dongguan black brick factory, walk to Huizhou experience, so he felt it is not difficult to return from Wuhan to Tianmen.
一早退了房，王天明就踏上了归途。
As soon as he left his room, Wang Tianming set out on his way home.
回到原点王天明将自己走路回家的行为称为“冲锋”。
Back home, Wang Tianming called his walk home a "charge."
“一路上遇到好多关卡，我都是绕着走，换条小路从田野上走”，通过骑摩拜和步行接力，傍晚，他到达了武汉和汉川边界，汉江大桥附近。
"There were a lot of roadblocks, I walked around and changed lanes from the fields" and in the evening he reached the Han River Bridge near the Wuhan-Hanchuan border by a relay of motorbikes and walking.
在这里，他又遇到了一个关卡。
Here he encountered another hurdle.
关卡旁边是河，他绕着河走了两公里，试图找到其他路线，但发现如果要绕过关卡的话，就一定要过这条河。
Next to the checkpoint was the river, which he had walked two kilometres around in an attempt to find other routes, but which he found necessary to cross if he wanted to bypass it.
于是，王天明就又倒回了河边，想游泳过去，他把带着的几件的衣服都丢了，站在河边思考到底要怎么办。
Then Wang Tianming fell back to the river and wanted to swim there. He lost all his clothes and stood by the river thinking what to do.
这时，桥上执勤的辅警看到了他，喊着问他要做什么。
At that moment, the auxiliary police on duty on the bridge saw him and called out to him what he was going to do.
辅警询问了王天明的情况后便报了警。
Auxiliary police questioned Wang Tianming's situation, then reported to the police.
随后，新沟派出所的警察来带他去医院做了体检，检查结果显示正常，警察说要送他去救助站，但是王天明拒绝了。
Later, police from Xingou police station came to take him to the hospital for a medical check-up, which showed that normal, the police said to send him to the rescue station, but Wang Tianming refused.
“我以前在广东的时候进过救助站，进去后他们就把你的东西都收了，很不自由”，所以他不想去。
"I used to go to the rescue station when I was in Guangdong, and when they went in, they took everything you had. It was not free," so he didn't want to go.
当时已经是晚上11点多了，王天明在大街上晃悠了一阵，也不知道去哪里。
It was past eleven o'clock in the evening, and Wang Tianming wandered about the streets for a while, not knowing where to go.
手机停机了，他也没法打给别人，他就又 拨打了110。
The phone stopped, and he couldn't call anyone else, so he dialed 110.
2月24日凌晨一点左右，三店派出所的民警把王天明送去了安置点住下。
February 24 around 1 a.m., the police at the three-store police station Wang Tianming sent to live in the settlement.
“哎，我冲锋失败了”，王天明说，真正劝服他停下脚步的，是当时在河边辅警的那句话，“即便你真的游过去了，你后面还有几十个关卡要过。
"Well, I failed in the charge," said Wang, who was really persuaded to stop by the words of the auxiliary police at the river bank. "Even if you do swim, there are dozens of roadblocks behind you.
”王天明想想也是，今天走了半天都不知道遇到了多少个关卡，每次都要绕着走，真的太难了。
"Wang Tianming thought so, today walked half a day did not know how many levels encountered, each time around the circle, really too difficult.
王天明就这样回到了原点。
Wang Tianming thus returned to the origin.
2月24日，“武汉发布”先后发布了两道通告，先是在“17号通告”中提到“滞留在汉的外地人员可以出城”。
On Feb. 24, Wuhan issued two notices, the first of which mentioned in Notice 17 that "non-resident personnel staying in Han can leave the city."
发布仅仅三个半小时后，“武汉发布”又发出了《武汉市新冠肺炎疫情防控指挥部通告》（第18号），宣布上午发布的“17号通告”无效。
Just three and a half hours after the announcement, Wuhan issued the "Wuhan Municipal New Crown Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command Notice" (No. 18), announcing that the "17 Notice" issued this morning was invalid.
所有滞留在武汉的外地人在这三个半小时里，心情像是坐上了过山车。
For three and a half hours, all the foreigners stranded in Wuhan felt as if they were on a roller coaster.
梁秀文说上午看到17号通告，感觉自己像是中了五百万彩票，再看到18号通告，像是去兑奖，结果被告知彩票过期了。
Liang said he had seen No.7 in the morning, felt like he'd won five million lottery tickets, and seen No.8 announcement, like to cash in, only to be told that the lottery ticket had expired.
她不甘心，又打电话给防控指挥部，咨询能不能以丈夫消防单位的名义开通行证回去，还是行不通。
She is not willing to, and called the control headquarters, advice can be issued in the name of her husband fire-fighting units back, or not.
她放弃了，把收拾好的行李一件一件拿了出来，只能和微信群友相互打气。
She gave up, picked up the packed luggage one by one, can only and micro-letter group of friends mutually cheering.
她发了一张门口玉兰花的照片，和群友们发语音说“看看鲜花吧，心情会好一点”。
She sent out a picture of Magnolia at the door and said in a voicemail with her friends, "Look at the flowers, the mood will be better."
梁秀文在群里分享的玉兰花。
The magnolia that Liang Xiuwen shares in the group.
陈欣看到18号通告的那一刻，并没有很诧异，她说在这段时间经历了这么多后，她并不意外事情的走向。
Chen was not surprised when she saw the announcement. She said she was not surprised by what had happened after all this time.
出家门时，宝宝才四个半月多，现在已经长出了两颗下门牙，陈欣说看到宝宝两颗白花花的小牙的时候，是她这40天来最开心的一刻。
By the time she left home, the baby was only four and a half months old, and now there were two lower front teeth. Chen Xin said she was having the happiest time in 40 days when she saw her baby's two white teeth.
黄亮说即便明天就解封，他应该还是会留下来去找点工作挣钱，也不急着回去。
Huang Liang said that even if released tomorrow, he should still stay to find a job to earn money, not anxious to go back.
房租已经拖欠了5天了，自从雷神山做工回来后也再没吃过那么多的菜和肉了。
The rent was five days in arrears, and he had not eaten so much meat or vegetables since Raytheon came back from work.
2月27日，武汉发布滞留在汉外地人员救助通道，有朋友知道黄亮的困难，就转发了链接让黄亮填了申请试试。
February 27, Wuhan issued stranded in the Han rescue channel, some friends know Huang Liang's difficulties, forwarded a link to Huang Liang filled out the application to try.
当日，街道送了黄亮一些萝卜和白菜，黄亮说自己已经很知足了，他说比自己困难的人肯定还有很多。
On that day, the street sent Huang Liang some turnips and cabbage, Huang Liang said he was satisfied, he said than their difficulties must have many people.
“有点吃的就行，我就尽量把命保住，等疫情过了，我还是要靠自己。
"A little bit of food will do, I will try to save my life, after the epidemic, I still have to rely on their own.
”戳这里进入“全国新型冠状病毒感染病例实时地图”↓↓↓本期编辑 周玉华推荐阅读。
Priced here into a "National Real-time Map of Cases of New Coronavirus Infection," Dou Chou, the editor of this issue, recommended reading.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
滞留40天，一觉醒来，还在武汉。
After 40 days of detention, I woke up in Wuhan.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "滞留40天，一觉醒来，还在武汉";。
var msg _ title = & quot; detained for 40 days, woke up at & quot; & quot; at Wuhan & quot;
var msg_desc = "在武汉的异乡人";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; at Wuhan.
title: '湖北：监狱、看守所原则上只进不出',。
Hubei: Not at all in prison or detention centre.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '一名空乘确诊，5名复工人员被隔离',。
A flight attendant was diagnosed and five reinstated workers were quarantined with service.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '3省5个监狱共确诊555例，司法部谈疫情细节漏洞',。
Ritle: & apos; 555 cases were diagnosed in five prisons in three provinces. & nbsp; & # 160; & # 45; & Justice & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
