不在武汉，怎么做志愿者。
Not in Wuhan, how to be a volunteer.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
金钱熠/华中科技大学新闻与信息传播学院2017级本科生1月16日，武汉传媒学院大四学生Summer坐上了离汉的飞机。
On January 16, Summer, a senior at Wuhan Media Institute, got on a plane leaving Han.
按照原来的计划，到厦门参加完活动后，他将回到长白山，断网闭关写作。
According to the original plan, after going to Xiamen to participate in the activities, he will return to Changbai Mountain, closed the net writing.
武汉天河机场人流如旧，没有人戴口罩。
Wuhan Tianhe Airport as usual, no one wearing masks.
他当时不知道，新冠病毒已在武汉悄然蔓延。
He did not know at the time, the new crown virus has quietly spread in Wuhan.
更没料到，一周之后会封城，短期之内，他将无法回到这座承载了他许多记忆与感情的城市。
Even more unpredictably, a week from now, he will not be able to return to the city that bears so much of his memory and affection.
封城的消息来得突然，Summer还来不及改签机票，进汉的通道就已被切断。
The news of the city's closure came suddenly, and Summer had not had time to renew his ticket before the passage into Han was cut off.
他说，如果早知道疫情会这么严峻，当初一定会留在武汉。
'Had I known it would be so severe, I would have stayed in Wuhan, 'he said.
从封城的那天起，Summer就成为了一名线上志愿者。
Summer has been an online volunteer since the day the city was closed.
这一个多月里，他在屏幕的另一端，参与救助了三十多位患者，帮14家以上向社会求助的医院联系到了捐赠物资，仍时常感到个体的渺小和无力。
For more than a month, he helped more than 30 patients on the other side of the screen, helped 14 hospitals turn to the community for help with donations, and often felt small and powerless.
他很希望回到武汉，去做更多的事，帮助更多的人。
He would like to go back to Wuhan, to do more, to help more people.
以下是Summer的口述0点46分发来的求助1月27日0点46分，当时我正忙着联系怎样把一批捐赠物资送到定点医院，秀秀发消息问我：能不能帮忙联系志愿者司机，送她父亲到医院？那是她第一次向我求助。
It was the first time she had asked me for help in contacting a volunteer driver and taking her father to the hospital, as I was busy trying to get a donation to a designated hospital.
秀秀是我的同学，她知道我在做志愿者。
Xiuxiu is my classmate. She knows I'm volunteering.
我在武汉上学，也在那里陆陆续续工作了很久，一直以新武汉人自称，恰好又学新闻，有一些社会资源，就想用自己的资源来帮助武汉。
I went to school in Wuhan, where I continued to work a long time, has been claiming to be a new Wuhan people, happened to learn news, there are some social resources, I would like to use their own resources to help Wuhan.
自从做志愿者之后，我的工作时间基本就是从早上8点半到凌晨2点半。
Since I became a volunteer, my working hours are basically from 8: 30am to 2: 30am.
做志愿者后，Summer每天都要工作到凌晨才会休息。
As a volunteer, Summer worked until the early hours of the morning every day.
秀秀的父亲从1月20日开始出现发烧、咳嗽等症状，一直在家里隔离。
Xiuxiu's father began to develop fever, cough and other symptoms from January 20, has been isolated at home.
27日凌晨，他病情加重，体温升到了38.5度，被社区卫生服务中心诊断为高度疑似患者，需要马上送去医院。
In the early hours of the morning of 27 July, his temperature rose to 38.5 degrees and he was diagnosed as highly suspicious by the Community Health Service and needed to be taken to hospital immediately.
秀秀打了120，但没有空车，社区的车辆不能送病人，定点医院的电话也打不通，情况十分紧急。
The show was 120, but there was no empty car, the community could not transport patients, and the call to the designated hospital could not be opened, and the situation was critical.
我安慰她不要着急，建议她打110联系对口的人，同时，我把求助信息在朋友圈和医院群里扩散，又联系了疫情指挥部。
I reassured her not to worry, advised her to contact her contacts at 110, and at the same time, I spread help around the circle of friends and hospitals and contacted the outbreak command.
凌晨1点37分，秀秀发消息告诉我，车已经联系到了，正在来的路上。
At 1: 37 in the morning, the show told me that the bus had been contacted on the way in.
本来以为到了医院就安全了，但1月28日晚上6点，我再一次收到秀秀的求助：她父亲被送到武钢二医院之后，由于医院设备不完善，医务人员没法进一步检查和治疗。
I thought I would be safe at the hospital, but at 6: 00 pm on January 28th, I received Xiuxiu's help again. After her father was sent to Wuhan No.2 Hospital, medical staff could not further examine and treat her because of the inadequate equipment.
秀秀害怕父亲病情加重，希望能转到医疗设备更完善的医院。
Xiu Xiu feared his father's illness would worsen and hoped to be transferred to a better-equipped hospital.
我把她的求助转发给了记者，也在朋友圈和自己的自媒体帮忙扩散。
I forwarded her help to reporters and helped spread it out in the circle of friends and my own self-media.
但是我也知道，各家医院早就处于超负荷运转的状态。
But I also know that hospitals have been overrun for a long time.
再说，进了医院再想转出去，难度也很大。
Besides, it's hard to get out of the hospital again.
所以我和秀秀讲，要作好心理准备。
So I told Xiuxiu to prepare myself mentally.
幸运的是，29日下午，秀秀告诉我一个好消息：父亲已经排上队，能做核酸检测了。
Luckily, on the afternoon of the 29th, Xiu Xiu told me the good news: my father was in the queue and was able to do nucleic acid tests.
她担心父亲在医院里交叉感染，想让父亲在检测前先居家隔离一段时间，医生也同意了。
She worried about her father's cross-infection in the hospital and wanted him to stay in the house for a while before testing, and the doctor agreed.
后来，她也自己联系到了接父亲回家的车。
Later, she got in touch with her father's car to take him home.
当时看起来一切都很顺利。
Everything seemed to be going well.
晚上8点，秀秀又给我发消息：她在医院门口待了好久，都能看到一门之隔的父亲了，可是父亲还是没能出来。
At 8 pm, Xiuxiu sent me news: she had been at the hospital door for a long time, can see a father, but he still could not come out.
那个时候，部分地区已经开始封小区了，时间很紧迫。
By that time, parts of the area had begun to seal up, and time was running out.
我尝试去问医院方面联络人的电话，但是没有要到。
I tried to get a call from the hospital contact, but I didn't get there.
又联系了疫情指挥中心和社区，都没有得到一个确切的答复。
The outbreak command centre and the community were contacted, but no definitive response was received.
我没法到达现场，感到力不从心。
I couldn't get to the scene and felt overwhelmed.
秀秀的父亲最终还是没能出院。
Xiuxiu's father finally failed to leave the hospital.
之后，秀秀的父亲病情加重，她问我怎么才能拿到免疫球蛋白，我也根据她的求助帮她想办法。
After that, Xiuxiu's father became seriously ill. She asked me how I could get the immunoglobulin.
秀秀后来自己找到了免疫球蛋白，之后的几天，她没有再向我求助，我也没有去问。
Xiuxiu later found the immunoglobulin herself, and a few days later, she did not ask me for help, I did not ask.
疫情期间，没有消息就是好消息。
During the outbreak, no news was good news.
一般来说，进了医院，有了医生和药，是不会出问题的。
Generally speaking, in the hospital, with the doctor and the medicine, will not be a problem.
这几天，虽然联系各个渠道的过程很曲折，但最终大部分问题还算是解决了。
In recent days, although the process of contacting the various channels has been tortuous, in the end most of the problems have been solved.
15人后援团没想到，再次收到秀秀求助的时候，就接连收到她母亲患病、父亲去世的坏消息。
The 15-member support group did not expect, again received Xiu Xiu help, on a succession of her mother sick, father died of bad news.
2月5日，秀秀找我帮忙联系车辆带母亲去定点医院拍CT。
Feb. 5, Xiuxiu asked me to help contact the vehicle to take my mother to the designated hospital for CT.
7日，秀秀父亲出现休克，被转到武汉协和医院，8日上午去世。
7, Xiuxiu father appeared to shock, was transferred to Wuhan Concorde Hospital, died on the morning of 8.
得知这个消息，我很震惊，也很自责。
I was shocked and remorseful at the news.
我是我们学校第一个知道秀秀父亲病情的人。
I was the first person in our school to know about Xiuxiu's father's illness.
秀秀第一个选择了我来求助，说明她很信任我，我觉得，我可能辜负了她的信任。
Xiu Xiu first chose me to ask for help, to show that she trusted me, I feel that I may have betrayed her trust.
我当时想，如果1月29日那天，秀秀父亲没法出院的时候，我在现场处理这个事情，会不会是不一样的结果？我学的专业和媒体相关，之前的工作经历也和记者、公关相关，在和人现场打交道方面有一些经验。
I wondered if it would have been different if I had been on the scene when Xiu Xiu's father was unable to leave the hospital on January 29th. My major was media-related, my previous work experience was with journalists and public relations, and I had some experience dealing with people on the spot.
秀秀那天晚上也很害怕，如果有个冷静的人可以帮她在现场处理，事情可能就会有转机，至少比我在线上能做到的会更多。
Xiuxiu was scared that night, too, and if a cool person could help her with the scene, things might turn out better, at least more than I could do online.
从那时开始，秀秀的同学组成了一支15人后援团，其中7个人是主力，其他志愿者游击帮助。
Since then, Xiuxiu students formed a 15-member support group, seven of which are the main force, other volunteers guerrilla assistance.
团队内部有明确的分工：我负责与秀秀联系，询问医生秀秀母亲的情况，获取关于床位的内部消息，同时也会与媒体沟通、公布秀秀的情况。
There was a clear division of labour within the team: I was responsible for contacting Xiuxiu, asking the doctor about her mother, getting inside information about the bed, communicating with the media and publicizing the show.
其他志愿者有的负责与热心群众联系、管理帐务、采购药品；有的负责收集与核实医院信息、联系床位；还有的志愿者负责安抚秀秀的情绪。
Other volunteers were responsible for communicating with interested people, managing accounts and procuring medicines, collecting and verifying hospital information and connecting beds, and for soothing the feelings of the volunteers.
10日凌晨，秀秀的母亲终于被汉口医院收治，但情况很严重，医生当天下达了病危通知书。
The morning of the 10th, Xiuxiu's mother was finally admitted to Hankou Hospital, but the situation is very serious, the doctor issued a notice of critical illness that day.
两天前，秀秀和弟弟也做了CT，姐弟俩都有肺部疑似感染的情况。
Two days ago Xiuxiu and his brother also had a CT scan, and both brothers and sisters had suspected pulmonary infection.
秀秀的症状更严重，之后被确诊。
The symptoms of Xiuxiu were more serious and were later diagnosed.
父亲去世、母亲病重、自己也被确诊，秀秀那几天的状态都不是很好，和我打电话时有几次带有哭腔。
His father died, his mother was seriously ill and he was diagnosed. Xiu Xiu was not in a good state for a few days.
其实我们不用问都能知道，毕竟这个情况搁谁都没办法处理。
In fact, we do not have to ask can know, after all, this situation can not be handled by anyone.
所以一开始，大家都不敢跟秀秀沟通，生怕触碰到她的泪点。
So at the beginning, we did not dare to communicate with Xiu Xiu, for fear of touching her tears.
秀秀的微博昵称是“秀秀要做大太阳”，她在简介中写道，“一直努力一直幸运做自己的太阳”。
Xiuxiu's nickname is "show wants to be the big sun," she wrote in the introduction, "has been trying to be lucky to be their own sun."
这么多天来，我救助过三十多位患者，秀秀是我遇到的最阳光、最坚强的一位。
Over the past few days, I have rescued more than 30 patients, Xiuxiu is I met the most sunshine, the strongest one.
其他的求助者找到我的时候，已经发了很多负面的朋友圈或帖子。
When the other suitors came to me, they had already posted a lot of negative circle of friends or posts.
但是秀秀一开始求助的时候，什么多余的话都没有，更没有责怪谁。
But Xiu Xiu at the beginning of help, what superfluous words do not have, not to blame who.
她说她很理解大家，也一直在配合社区的相关工作和流程。
She said she understands people and has been working with communities and processes.
甚至在联系我之前，她都没有在社交媒体上求助过，直到父亲情况变差，才不得不麻烦别人。
Even before I was contacted, she didn't ask for help on social media until her father's situation got worse and she had to bother others.
秀秀的网名是“秀秀要做大太阳”，她在现实中很开朗，也很愿意帮助别人。
Xiuxiu's net name is "Xiuxiu to do the big sun", she is very cheerful in reality, but also willing to help others.
想要做更多志愿者的帮助并不是全部有效的。
Not all the help of wanting to be more volunteers is effective.
这并不是指志愿者不作为，而是指千辛万苦做了很多之后，结果并不尽如人意。
This does not mean that volunteers do not do, but refers to a lot of hard work after a lot of, the results are not satisfactory.
就好像我们救助患者，现有的各种渠道都尝试过了，但就是没人能救这个患者，医生和志愿者急得团团转，这是一样的心境。
As if we had saved the patient, all available channels had been tried, but no one could save the patient, and the doctors and volunteers rushed around in the same frame of mind.
无力感一直会伴随我们，但没有谁会轻易放弃。
A sense of powerlessness is always with us, but no one gives up easily.
这种无力感最强烈的时候，是在二月初。
The strongest of these feelings of powerlessness occurred in early February.
那几天，物资刚刚收紧，“应收尽收”政策也还没有出来。
In those days, goods had just been tightened and the "take-it-all" policy had not come out.
当时医疗物资已经由相关部门统一调控生产了，我们作为民间志愿者，没有办法买到，就算是已经付过款的物资，厂家都不发货了，所以我们没有办法对前线进行物资的援助。
By then, medical supplies had been uniformly controlled and produced by the departments concerned. As non-governmental volunteers, we could not buy them. Even if the goods had already been paid for, the manufacturers would not deliver the goods, so we could not provide material assistance to the front.
另一方面，患者又一直在求床位，但是当时的床位比较紧张，我们想法设法地去救助他们，但实际的救助人数也不是很多。
On the other hand, the patients have been seeking beds, but at that time the beds are tight, we tried to help them, but the actual number of people is not very large.
2月5日，我发了一条朋友圈：“渠道愈发收紧，怎样才能做到更多？”那几天对于民间志愿者来说是一个比较“黑暗”的时期。
On February 5, I sent out a circle of friends: "Channels get tighter, how can we do more?" Those days were a "dark" period for folk volunteers.
因为民间志愿者主要就做物资捐赠和患者救助这两块，那段时间，这两个板块都没法正常运转，但大家从来没有停下来过。
Because folk volunteers mainly do material donations and patients to help the two, during that time, both plates did not work properly, but everyone has never stopped.
有的志愿者寻找新的厂家，也有的找厂家联系退款，但经过几天的“挣扎”，我们发现，骗子越来越多，确实很难找到靠谱的医疗物资了。
Some volunteers look for new manufacturers, others find manufacturers contact the refund, but after a few days of "struggle," we found that more and more cheaters, it is really difficult to find reliable medical supplies.
我们的志愿者还算幸运，因为我们做的板块比较多，我们还能做信息核查，也能给官方媒体提供新闻线索。
Our volunteers were lucky, because we made more plates, we were able to check information, and we were able to provide the official media with news leads.
其实不管救不救得到，我们都会有无力感。
In fact, whether we can help or not, we will have a sense of powerlessness.
面对巨大的灾难，个人是极其渺小的。
The individual is infinitesimal in the face of great disaster.
我自己曾经给十几家医院联系到了物资，但是仅仅过了一天，医院又开始缺物资了。
I myself had contacted a dozen hospitals for supplies, but only one day later the hospital began to run out of supplies.
志愿者们或许可以帮（少数）求助的患者联系到床位，但面对成千上万的求助者，实在是心有余而力不足。
Volunteers may be able to help (a few) patients get access to beds, but in the face of thousands of sufferers, it is not enough.
我只能说“悲能拔苦，慈能与乐”，虽然渺小，但能救一个便是一个。
I can only say that "tragedy can pull out hardship, kindness and joy," although small, but can save one is a.
我们现在也在拓展新的工作内容，做生活用品捐赠这块的志愿服务，比如方舱医院的一次性碗筷、方便面和卫生纸。
We are now also expanding our work by volunteering on items such as disposable chopsticks, instant noodles and toilet paper at the cabin hospital.
现在，来求助的患者比以前少了，从昨天（2月26日）开始，我们就没有再接到床位求助了。
Fewer patients are coming to help now than ever, and we have had no bed help since yesterday, Feb. 26.
对于患者来说，康复者血浆是目前他们最需要的。
For patients, plasma is currently most needed.
我们团队有一名志愿者每天负责血浆求助患者信息的核查和整理，但这个事情很复杂，所以暂时还没有成功的案例。
Our team had a volunteer who checked and collated the plasma help patient information every day, but it was so complicated that there were no success stories for the time being.
2月22日晚上8点多，Summer的微信上还有17912条未读消息，只有把当天的消息一一阅读和处理完，他才能休息。
By 8 p.m. on February 22, Summer had 17,912 unread messages on his message, and he could not rest until he had read and processed all the news of the day.
做志愿者以来，这样高强度的工作成为了常态。
Since becoming a volunteer, such intense work has become the norm.
说实话，这段时间做志愿者比我之前学习和工作的强度都要大。
To be honest, this is a time to volunteer more than I have ever studied and worked.
我每天微信都会收到三万多条消息，只有把当天的事情处理完，我才会安心睡觉。
Every day I receive more than 30, 000 messages, and I will not sleep until I have done with the day's business.
最晚的一天，我记得很清楚，晚上10点的时候有三个患者同时向我求助，那天我凌晨3点40分才休息。
The last day, I remember very clearly, at 10: 00 pm, three patients asked me for help at the same time, and I didn't take a rest until 3: 40 a.m.
我的手机内存是128G，现在光一个微信就已经占了一半的内存了。
My cell phone has 128 gigabytes of memory, and now a micromessage alone accounts for half of that memory.
我的手机甚至因此在2月5日“罢工”了一天。
My cell phone even went on strike on February 5.
做志愿者不像学习，累了就能休息；也不像我之前比较喜欢做的自由职业，不想做就不做了。
Being a volunteer is not like studying, you can rest when you are tired, and unlike my former freelance job, you don't want to.
只要你开始做（志愿者），就必须坚持做下去，不管发生什么样的事情。
As long as you start doing it, you have to keep doing it, no matter what happens.
因为别人都在指望着你，要对别人的生命负责。
Because everyone else is counting on you to be responsible for the lives of others.
1月16日，我离开武汉出差去厦门，之后想回武汉到一线做志愿者，但想方设法都进不去。
January 16, I left Wuhan on a business trip to Xiamen, then want to return to Wuhan as a first-line volunteer, but every means can not enter.
现在我在线上能做到这么多，那么在线下一定能做到更多。
Now that I can do so much online, I'm sure I can do more online.
如果当时知道疫情会发展成这样，我肯定不会离开武汉。
Had I known that this would happen, I would certainly not have left Wuhan.
（指导老师：华中科技大学新闻与信息传播学院教师 周婷婷；澎湃新闻记者 张小莲）戳这里进入“全国新型冠状病毒感染病例实时地图”↓↓↓本期编辑 周玉华推荐阅读。
(Director: Zhou Tingting, Faculty of Journalism and Information Dissemination, Central China University of Science and Technology; Zhang Xiaolian, Peng Pai journalist, poked here into Dell Computers, PhD, PhD, PhD, PhD, PhD, PhD)
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
不在武汉，怎么做志愿者。
Not in Wuhan, how to be a volunteer.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "不在武汉，怎么做志愿者";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "“虽然渺小，但能救一个便是一个”";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '湖北：监狱、看守所原则上只进不出',。
Hubei: Not at all in prison or detention centre.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '一名空乘确诊，5名复工人员被隔离',。
A flight attendant was diagnosed and five reinstated workers were quarantined with service.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '3省5个监狱共确诊555例，司法部谈疫情细节漏洞',。
Ritle: & apos; 555 cases were diagnosed in five prisons in three provinces. & nbsp; & # 160; & # 45; & Justice & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
