“你们是不是觉得太危险，不要我们了”。
"Don't you think it's too dangerous for us?"
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻记者 钟笑玫方舱的晚上不关灯，墙、隔板也是一片白色。
Peng Pai journalists laugh at the night Mai Fang cabins do not turn off the lights, walls, partition is also a white.
冯强第一次走进去，感到刺眼，他下意识想，有些患者也许会失眠，单调的颜色让人缺乏安全感。
Feng Qiang walked in for the first time, he felt dazzling, he subconsciously thought, some patients may insomnia, monotonous color makes people insecure.
冯强是同济大学附属东方医院的临床心理科医生，16天前的2月4日，他和54名同事组成应急医疗队，从上海出发驰援武汉，4天后，入驻建成不久的武汉客厅（东西湖区）方舱医院，上了第一个夜班。
On February 4, 2006, Feng Qiang, a clinical psychologist at the Oriental Hospital attached to Tongji University, and his 54-member emergency medical team set out from Shanghai to help Wuhan.
他发现，刚进舱的患者会把这个布满床位的“大帐篷”想成仓库，而穿得像“外星人”的医护人员被划为“你们”，“我们”像是被“你们”遗弃了一样。
He found that new arrivals would think of the bunk-filled tent as a warehouse, while medical staff dressed like "aliens" were labeled "you" and "we" were abandoned by "you."
有的患者很焦虑，忧心尚未有发病症状的家人，未成年的孩子，自己的病情；也有19岁的少年，因抑郁有过轻生念头，但对医生闭口不言；还有一些人，正在艰难地面对失去亲人的“悲伤反应”。
Some patients are anxious, worried about their families, underage children, their own illnesses; others, 19-year-olds, who have thought lightly about depression but are silent about doctors; and still others, who are struggling with the "sad reactions" of losing a loved one.
在同一个方舱里，每个患者都有自己的故事，有的埋藏心底很深。
In the same cabin, each patient has his or her own story, some buried deep in the heart.
冯强每天在这些情绪中穿行。
Feng Qiang walks through these emotions every day.
冯强和另一位心理医生在巡视病房，跟患者聊天。
Feng Qiang and another psychiatrist were visiting the ward, talking to the patient.
受访者供图2月13日，他和来自新疆、宁夏、广东的两名心理医生和一名心理护士，组成了武汉客厅方舱的心理干预工作组。
The interviewee, along with two psychologists and a mental nurse from Xinjiang, Ningxia and Guangdong, formed a psychological intervention team in the Wuhan living room cabin on February 13.
他们帮一些患者弄了床帘，发给他们志愿者捐赠的眼罩。
They helped some patients make bed curtains and gave them blindfolds donated by volunteers.
在白色的墙壁上，装点绿色的树和彩色的宣传画。
On the white walls, decorated with green trees and color posters.
冯强也会把自己的微信二维码打印出来，贴在读书角的墙上、发给护士，走到哪手里总攥着一张，方便患者找到他。
Feng Qiang would also print out his microphone code, put it on the wall in the corner and give it to the nurse. He would hold it in his hand so the patient could find him.
冯强觉得，总会好的。
Feng Qiang thinks, always good.
疫情过后，他还要回一趟母校，武汉大学，再去爬一次珞珈山，去看看樱花。
After the epidemic, he will go back to his alma mater, Wuhan University, and climb once more the cherry blossoms.
以下是他的口述：一“这是不是一场演习？”到达医院时，还有人这样小声嘟囔。
Here's his dictation: "Is this a drill?" There was a murmur as he arrived at the hospital.
集结号是2月3日傍晚吹响的：“支援武汉，集合待命”。
Assembly number is the evening of February 3 blowing: "Support Wuhan, gather standby."
当时武汉的雷神山和火神山医院都在建，很多人没有想到会有一次这么紧迫的集合。
Wuhan at the time of the Raytheon Mountain and the Fire Goddess Hospital are under construction, many people did not expect that there will be such a pressing gathering.
我们医院有90多个人主动报名参加应急医疗队。
More than 90 people in our hospital volunteered to join the emergency medical team.
接到集合通知后，不管正吃饭还是没吃饭，都赶紧打包行李赶去医院。
After receiving notice of the gathering, whether eating or not, hurry to pack to go to the hospital.
焦虑、紧张在蔓延。
Anxiety and tension are spreading.
有些年轻的护士才二十几岁，工作没几年，不知道要面对的是什么。
Some of the young nurses were in their twenties and had been working for only a few years, not knowing what to expect.
就连工作近十年的“老江湖”也有点抓瞎，去不去、谁去、去多久都是不确定的。
Even the "old river lake," which has been working for nearly a decade, is a bit blind, whether to go, who to go and for how long.
大概晚上10点左右，55人的名单宣布了。
About 10: 00 p. m. the names of 55 people have been announced.
知道要去后，很多人心就定了，开始往集装箱内搬物资。
Knowing that they were going, many people decided to start moving supplies into the container.
仔细观察，你会发现，名单之外的医生的心情也很复杂，有点失落，有点轻松，又有点自责内疚，在送别的氛围中还有些感伤和担忧。
If you look closely, you will find that the feelings of the doctors outside the list are complicated, a little frustrated, a little relaxed, a little guilty of remorse, and a little sentimental and apprehensive in the atmosphere of departure.
没人哭出来，但我现在回忆起来倒是想哭，挺感动的。
No one cried out, but I now remember to cry, very moved.
第二天，火车站送别，我们都穿着统一的制服、拉着统一的箱子，就像军人穿着军装一样自豪。
The next day, as we parted at the train station, we all wore uniform uniforms and pulled uniform boxes, as proud as soldiers in military uniforms.
不单媒体，游客也给我们拍照。
Not only the media, but also tourists.
但坐上火车，轻松气氛就慢慢消失了。
But as soon as I got on the train, the light atmosphere faded away.
一开始是有列车员跟我们讲，车上有去武汉的乘客（不确定有没有接触史），不要乱走动。
At first, the conductor told us that there were passengers going to Wuhan (not sure if there was any contact), do not move about.
有的护士跟父母通视频，说着说着声泪俱下。
Some nurses are talking to their parents via video, and they are all in tears.
她们也知道这样父母会跟着揪心，但就是控制不住。
They also know that this will lead parents to worry, but can not control.
有队员跟我讲，听到播报“武汉站到了”的时候，心都感觉要跳出嗓子眼了。
Some team members told me that when I heard the broadcast "Wuhan Station arrived," my heart felt ready to jump out of my throat.
我从事精神卫生工作8年，出发前我就想好，要时刻注意队员们的情绪变化。
I've been working on mental health for eight years, and I thought before I left, I wanted to keep an eye on the changing mood of the team.
但我也不敢强调这个，主要是怕他们可能有压力——谁跟我走近点、多说几句话，可能就涉嫌心理脆弱了。
But I'm also afraid to emphasize this, mainly for fear that they might be pressured into thinking that anyone who comes close to me and talks a little more might be suspected of being psychologically vulnerable.
我能感受到被回避。
I can feel shunned.
比如坐车来回方舱医院的时候，双人座我坐了一个，旁边的位置就没人坐，就算有人坐那人也很不自然。
For example, when riding to and fro in the cabin hospital, I sat in a double seat, next to the seat will not be seated, even if someone sitting there is very unnatural.
我只能往群里多发些《抗疫·安心》这样的科普读本，平时尽量把自己跟他们同化为医生，而非凸显自己是心理医生。
I could only read more popular science books, such as Plague and Peace of mind, and try to assimilate myself as a doctor instead of highlighting myself as a psychiatrist.
最初的一周，我被安排作为内科医生进舱。
For the first week, I was assigned to the cabin as a physician.
其他医生也一样，不管原来是什么科室的，现在都统一负责新冠肺炎的诊治。
The same is true of other doctors, who are now uniformly responsible for the management of New Crown Pneumonia, whatever the department.
让患者得到治疗，这是首要任务。
Access to treatment is a top priority.
你身体健康都不能保证，哪来的心理（治疗）？就医有保障、信息通畅，也是有利于患者不往焦虑和抑郁发展的。
Your health is not guaranteed, where the psychological (therapeutic)? Access to health care, information, but also conducive to patients do not tend to anxiety and depression.
二2月4日傍晚，我们到达武汉，第二天一早就奔赴武汉客厅方舱卸物资、搭帐篷。
On the evening of February 4, we arrived in Wuhan, and the next morning we went to the drawing room to unload materials and set up a tent.
2月8日凌晨两点，我上了第一个夜班。
At 2 a.m. on February 8, I took my first night shift.
客厅方舱晚上是不关灯的，一进舱，灯光很刺眼，我下意识就想到，有些患者会失眠、精神不太好。
The living room cabin is not turned off at night, when the cabin, light is very harsh, I subconsciously thought that some patients will insomnia, not good spirit.
墙、隔板一片白色，很单调，让人没有安全感。
Wall, partition a piece of white, very monotonous, let a person feel insecure.
陌生的环境可能让一些人想起仓库，再加上一些穿得像外星人的医护人员，衣服上写着的一些外地地名，患者可能会把里面的人划分为“你们”和“我们”，觉得“我们”孤立无援、像是被“你们”遗弃了一样，陷入恐慌。
The unfamiliar environment may remind some people of the warehouse, plus some alien-dressed medical staff, with out-of-town names written on their clothes, that patients may classify the people inside as "you" and "us," feeling that "we" are alone, as if abandoned by "you," and in panic.
有些患者会跟我说，你们是不是觉得我们太危险了，不要我们了。
Some patients will tell me if you think we're too dangerous for us.
其实有这些心理都很正常，因为刚到一个环境，人搞不清楚状况，多少会缺少安全感，更别说身处疫情之中了。
In fact, these psychological are normal, because just arrived in an environment, people do not understand the situation, how much insecurity, let alone in the epidemic.
我会安慰他们，说我们也是医生护士，这里也叫医院。
I'll comfort them by saying we're also doctors and nurses, and this is also called a hospital.
我们也帮一些患者弄了床帘，志愿者也捐了眼罩过来。
We also helped some patients make bed curtains, and volunteers donated blindfolds.
墙上除了党旗、国旗，还贴上了绿色的树、彩色的“患者心理护理及调适”宣传画、读书角、电视、移动充电宝、暖气片等物品，也让大多数人的心态都慢慢稳定了下来。
In addition to the Party flag, the national flag, but also affixed to the green tree, color "patient psychological care and adaptation" posters, reading corners, TV, mobile charging treasure, heating film, and other items, so that the majority of people's mentality slowly stabilized.
冯强和另一位心理医生在墙上张贴《患者心理护理及调适》 受访者供图有患者跟我说，这边管吃管喝、免费治病、也不会像在社区一样给别人带来恐慌，一旦病情有点变化，医护人员立刻就能反应。
Feng Qiang and another psychologist posted "Psychosocial Care and Adjustment for Patients" on the wall. Respondents told me that patients here eat, drink, treat their patients for free, and do not panic as they do in the community.
他们住下来很安心，不太想出院。
They live in peace and have little desire to leave the hospital.
其实医生的感受比较复杂。
Actually, the doctor's feelings are complicated.
一方面想要帮助病人，一方面时刻会提醒自己病毒无情，做什么事情需要谨慎，包括不要靠病人太近。
On the one hand, trying to help patients, on the other hand, constantly reminds themselves of the ruthless nature of the virus and the need to be careful about what to do, including not relying too closely on patients.
隔离衣、防护服、口罩、面罩、两层手套、两层鞋套……这样的装备穿在身上，我们不仅呼吸不畅，眼镜里蓄着“雾水”——眼镜片上起的雾多了，形成水滴下来嘛。
Isolation clothing, protective clothing, mask, mask, two gloves, two layers of shoes... such equipment on the body, we not only breathing bad, glasses contain "fog water" - eyeglasses raised a lot of fog, forming water droplets.
耳朵被口罩皮筋勒得像刀割，鼻子被护目镜压得像是被打了一拳一样酸痛。
The ears were strangled like a knife through a mask, and the nose was as sore as a blow from a blow.
在这种躯体负荷下，情绪会比较容易烦躁，注意力不能持久。
Under this kind of body load, the mood can be more easily agitated, the attention cannot last long.
防护服比较容易被暖气烤坏，鞋套容易磨破，有的医护就会带着恐慌工作。
Protective clothing is more easily burned by heating, shoe cover easy to wear out, some medical care will work with fear.
气溶胶传播的可能性在一开始还只是听说，有的医护人员就会觉得周围空气都是病毒，有明显的超价观念（精神医学的一个专业名词，指某种强烈情绪加强并在意识中占主导地位）。
The possibility of aerosol transmission was initially heard, and some medical staff felt that the air around them was full of viruses, with a clear notion of overpricing (a term used in psychiatry to denote a strong emotional strengthening and dominance of consciousness).
夜晚还是比较冷的，还好我们的医生站有两个电暖器，可以烤一下。
It's still cold at night, but fortunately our doctor stands with two electric heaters that can be baked.
一起搭班的是重庆医疗队的，大家都紧张地进入了各自的岗位，书写病历和处理病人医嘱。
Together the team is Chongqing medical team, everyone nervously into their respective posts, writing medical records and dealing with patients doctor's orders.
每个人好像严重的近视眼，头基本上贴到了电脑的屏幕上，打字也好像老奶奶一样，一个一个字母看着打。
Everyone seemed to have severe nearsightedness, his head almost stuck to the computer screen, typing like an old woman, one letter at a time.
一个福建医疗队的队员不经意间提醒我，也许我靠近电暖器太近了，把右腿的防护服烤漏了。
A member of the Fujian medical team inadvertently reminded me that maybe I was too close to the heater and that I had leaked my right leg's protective suit.
我一看，吓了一跳，马上觉得病毒无孔不入进入到我的衣服里面了，立刻用消毒水一顿狂喷，然后拿透明胶布把烫漏的裤子粘了起来。
I looked, startled, immediately feel the virus into my clothes, immediately with disinfectant, then take transparent tape to stick up the hot pants.
时间不快不慢地过着。
Time goes by slowly.
我作为内科医生，上了3个班次。
I worked three shifts as a physician.
上周，也算是“找到了组织”——新疆和宁夏援鄂医疗队各有一个心理医生，广东队里有一个心理护士。
Last week, it was a "found organization" -- Xinjiang and Ningxia Hubei medical teams each have a psychologist, Guangdong team has a psychological nurse.
我们四个人组成了一个心理咨询小组，轮流入舱，专职负责方舱内1400名左右患者的精神科会诊和心理援助。
The four of us formed a psychological counseling team that rotated in and took full responsibility for psychiatric consultation and psychological assistance for about 1,400 patients in the square cabin.
三精神卫生的问题和传染病不一样，发病率一般都是1%，多的时候百分之十二三，不会是“断崖式”爆发。
Mental health problems and infectious diseases are not the same, the prevalence rate is generally 1%, more than 12%, will not be a "cliff-style" outbreak.
我们所面对的患者在整个方舱里是零星点缀的。
The patients we were dealing with were scattered throughout the cabin.
比如说，100个病人里面只有几个需要去干预，甚至吃药的。
For example, only a few out of 100 patients need to intervene or even take medication.
其他人都是一些情绪问题，只要给予教育、宣泄和疏导就可以，减少他们出现抑郁症、PTSD（创伤后应激障碍，指个体经历、目睹或遭遇到一个或多个涉及自身或他人的实际死亡，或受到死亡的威胁，或严重的受伤，或躯体完整性受到威胁后，所导致的个体延迟出现和持续存在的精神障碍）的可能性。
Others are emotional problems that can be reduced by education, catharsis, and catharsis, reducing the likelihood that individuals will experience, witness, or experience one or more actual deaths involving themselves or others, or are threatened with death, serious injury, or threats to their physical integrity.
每位医生一进舱，不管A、B、C哪个厅出现了相关情况，都要负责，比如我在舱内的时候发现了某患者的焦虑情况，下次另一位心理医生进舱时可能再会去跟他交谈。
Every doctor entering the cabin, no matter which hall A, B, C relevant circumstances, such as I found a patient's anxiety while in the cabin, the next time another psychiatrist entered the cabin may talk to him again.
目前我们有两种方式触及患者，一种是医生、护士、志愿者反馈给我们，另一种是我们自己巡视发现。
There are two ways in which we can reach out to patients: doctors, nurses, volunteers who give us feedback, and we do our own rounds.
如果是白天的班，我会重点关注躺在床上的人，蒙在被子里或者睁眼发呆的，想着他们是不是有心事昨晚没睡好、或者比较消沉。
If it was a daytime shift, I'd focus on the people lying in bed, covered in blankets or staring blankly, wondering if they had a problem sleeping or feeling depressed last night.
要是晚上，我就会跟到处溜达的人聊几句，他们是不是因为某些事情失眠。
At night, I would talk to people who wander around, if they have insomnia due to something.
比如上午的时候，一个人蒙着头睡觉，我们会叫醒他，问“帅哥，你怎么了，昨天没睡好吗？”有的青少年会说不要管他，他就想睡。
For example, in the morning, when a man goes to bed with his head covered, we wake him up and ask, "Hey, handsome man, did you sleep well yesterday?" Some teenagers say leave him alone and he wants to sleep.
大多数患者都比较配合，因为医生在关心他嘛。
Most of the patients cooperate because the doctor is concerned about him.
有的人会说自己只想缩在床位里，怕到处活动病情加重。
Some people say they just want to stay in bed, afraid to move around getting worse.
有的人马上就坐起来，说起自己失眠的情况。
Some people immediately sit up and talk about their insomnia.
一般我都会跟他们多聊几句，这跟我们平时在门诊“守株待兔”的状态不一样，“主动出击”才能触及到更深层次的情绪问题。
Usually I will talk to them a little more, which is different from our usual situation of waiting for a rabbit in the clinic, "active attack" can reach a deeper emotional problem.
比如有位女患者一开始说因为认床睡不着。
For example, one woman initially said she couldn't sleep because she had a bed.
我关心了几句，她才说自己和老公都感染新冠，但是老公现在住在另外一个方舱里，她很发愁，想要转舱。
After a few words of concern, she said that she and her husband were infected with the new crown, but now that he was living in a different cabin, she was worried and wanted to transfer.
其实这种问题我是没法解决的。
Actually, I can't solve this kind of problem.
我只能安慰这个女患者遵医嘱，锻炼身体尽快出院回家，跟老公在家里见面。
I can only comfort the female patient with medical advice, exercise as soon as possible out of the hospital to meet her husband at home.
诸如此类的，还有患者想要催着快点拿药、拿到检查报告、孩子不满18岁但想要跟孩子同舱治疗等等。
There are patients who want to be rushed for drugs, get a report, have a child under the age of 18 who wants to be treated with their children.
除了失眠，我们还碰到过焦虑和抑郁的患者。
In addition to insomnia, we have encountered anxiety and depression patients.
有位焦虑的女患者会一直忧心没有发病症状的老公会不会被“抓走”，黏着医生不让走，问了一遍“会不会被抓走啊？”医生安慰了她半天，就像没听见一样，又再问“抓走是不可能的对不对？” 还有检查结果、药、家里未完成的事、包括自己的病会不会好，都有可能成为他们焦虑的主题。
One anxious woman was always worried that her husband, who had no symptoms, would be "grabbed" by the doctor and asked, "Will he be taken away?" The doctor consoled her for a long time, as if he had not heard her.
有位抑郁的19岁男孩，听到“心理医生”四个字就非常抵触地说“我想睡觉，我没有问题，我不想说话！”但是护士和医生查房的时候，从周围患者那了解到，他有过轻生的念头。
A depressive 19-year-old boy, when he heard the word "psychiatrist," contradicted himself by saying, "I want to sleep, I have no problem, I don't want to talk!" But when the nurse and the doctor looked in the room, they learned that he had had light thoughts.
我和另一位来自新疆的心理医生张桂青跟男孩接触了两次。
Zhang Gui-qing, another psychiatrist from Xinjiang, and I met the boy twice.
第一次他是排斥的，张医生说这种是混熟了才好说话，隔了一小时我们又去找他。
The first time he was repulsive, Dr. Zhang said it was too familiar to speak, and after an hour we went to him again.
张医生告诉他，“我们又来了，看看是不是可以聊聊呢？”他说“我没有病。
"We're here again to see if we can talk," he said. "I'm not ill.
”张医生说“不一定有病我们才聊啊，我们会和很多人聊的，你看我们都聊了一圈回来了。
"Zhang said," We don't have to be sick to talk. We'll talk to a lot of people.
”这时候，男孩坐起来了，开始告诉我们自己睡得不太好，但不需要辅助睡眠的药物。
"At that point, the boy sat up and began to tell us that we were not sleeping well, but that we did not need drugs to help us sleep.
张医生告诉他“你这么年轻，很快病毒就会被你的免疫力杀死的，你需要的话，医生会随时给你帮助的。
Dr. Zhang told him, "You are so young, soon the virus will be killed by your immunity, you need, the doctor will be ready to help you.
”他本来是不怎么跟我们有目光接触的，听到这句话，他抬起头，我从他的眼神里看到他得到了一些安慰，然后赶紧抓住机会，向他推荐了一个抗疫心理音频，他主动扫上了。
He did not have much eye contact with us, and when he heard this, he looked up, I saw in his eyes that he had some comfort, and I seized the opportunity to recommend to him a mental voice against the plague, and he swept it.
方舱有三个电台供患者收听，分别是：武汉本地电台、方舱电台、上海人民广播电台，患者可以在闲暇之余听听电台的专项心理疏导节目。
There are three radio stations in the cabin for patients to listen to: Wuhan local radio station, square cabin radio station, and Shanghai People's Radio station.
澎湃新闻记者 赵思维 图这里需要提醒一点，平常心理咨询遇到的目光不接触以及身体不会正向面对你等情况，在这里不一定就能说明这个人内向或者回避沟通。
Zhao thinking diagram of Peng Pai journalist here need to remind that the usual psychological counseling encounter the eyes do not contact and the body will not face you, and so on, here does not necessarily show that this person introverted or avoided communication.
有个网络工程师，心态特别积极，把电脑带进来每天工作，还给我展示他之前给医院设计的办公平台。
There was a network engineer who was particularly active, bringing in computers to work every day and showing me the office platform he had designed for the hospital.
我跟他聊的时候，他侧身不看我，跟我解释“对不起，这不代表我不礼貌，而是不想正面说话（导致）空气喷过去增加你们的危险”。
When I was talking to him, he turned away from me and explained to me, "Sorry, this doesn't mean I'm impolite, but I don't want to talk head-on.
这种患者真的特别贴心。
This kind of patient is really close.
这次疫情凶猛，一些住进方舱的患者失去了家人。
The outbreak was so severe that some of the people who had been admitted lost their families.
目前我接触了3位患者，分别失去了父亲、母亲和丈夫，有不同程度的“居丧反应”（失去所爱的人后的一种自然反应。
I have now come into contact with three patients who have lost their fathers, mothers and husbands, and who have had varying degrees of "mourning" (a natural reaction after losing someone I love).
与死者关系越密切的人，产生悲伤反应也就越严重。
The closer a person is to the deceased, the more serious the grief response becomes.
猝然死亡，引起的悲伤反应最重）。
Sudden death causes the heaviest grief.
一位失去父亲的女患者，在朋友圈写了一大段的哀悼文字，回忆父亲特别善良，曾经让找不到酒店的陌生人住在家里，但是这么善良的人在患新冠肺炎离世之前，很难得到床位和找到车去医院急救。
A woman who lost her father wrote a long mourn in a circle of friends, recalling that his father was so kind that strangers who could not find a hotel once lived at home, but such a kind man had difficulty getting beds and finding a car to go to a hospital before he died of pneumonia.
她是哀伤中带着怨气的，创伤有点大。
She was sad and resentful, a little bruised.
我没入舱的时候，托跟她接触的医护人员把我的微信给她，她也不加。
When I was in the hold, I asked the paramedics who had been in contact with her to give her my message and she did not.
今天（2月19日）另外一位心理医生入舱了，他会去了解一下这个患者的情况，进行干预，帮助她顺利度过这段时间。
Today (Feb. 19) another psychiatrist is in the cabin, and he's going to find out about the patient and intervene to help her get through this.
四其实我做好了心理准备，很多病人可能会有病耻感，不太愿意去求助心理医生，怕被人看轻。
In fact, I was prepared for the psychological, many patients may have a sense of shame, reluctant to go to a psychologist, afraid of being looked down upon.
而且有些人会觉得心理医生不管用，只是随便聊聊，觉得这种治疗都是胡扯的。
And some people will feel that psychiatrists do not work, just chat casually, think this kind of treatment is nonsense.
特别是有些中年男性，平时抽烟、酗酒、闷声不响，其实有很严重的抑郁症和焦虑症。
In particular, some middle-aged men, usually smoking, alcohol abuse, silent, there is in fact a very serious depression and anxiety.
他们害怕暴露自己，在别的男性面前“没面子”。
They are afraid to expose themselves and "lose face" in front of other men.
我们在巡视过程中，看到还是有很多的人在床上看手机。
In the course of our tour, we still saw a lot of people in bed looking at mobile phones.
我一开始感慨，手机让大家都着迷在虚拟的时空中，一方面我们的视野更大了，可以躺在床上看世界，一方面人更孤独了。
At first, I lamented that mobile phones fascinate us all in virtual space and time. On the one hand, we have a wider vision, we can lie in bed and see the world, on the other hand, we are more lonely.
但我又意识到，在这个特殊时期，也许手机让更多人可以进行自我隔离，也可以通过手机宣传我们心理卫生的工作。
But I also realized that, at this particular time, mobile phones might allow more people to isolate themselves, or they could spread the word about our mental health work.
所以我开始“发传单式宣传”，把我的微信二维码打印出来，贴在读书角的墙上、发给护士，走到哪手里也攥着一张。
So I began a flyer campaign, typed out my message in two-dimensional code, stuck it on the wall in the corner and handed it to the nurse, holding it in my hand wherever I went.
读书角上方的墙上，张贴着冯强的微信二维码。
Reading corner above the wall, posted Feng Qiang micro-letter two-dimensional code.
澎湃新闻记者 赵思维 图我也会定期在我们医护人员的群里发一些短视频，宣传心理健康。
Zhao Yintu, a journalist, I also regularly send short videos to our medical staff to promote mental health.
如何改善睡眠，或者如何改善我们应对新冠的医务人员的情绪等等。
How to improve sleep, or how to improve the mood of our medical staff dealing with new crowns, etc.
目前为止，只是有些队员会问我失眠怎么办，还没人私下找我深聊。
So far, only some players have asked me what to do about insomnia, and no one has talked to me in private.
抢救室不用的时候，我们预计把它作为一个临时心理干预的工作室。
When the rescue room was not in use, we expected it to be used as a temporary psychological intervention studio.
那里有窗户，通风比较好，还有凳子，可以坐着聊久一点，而且比较私密。
There are windows, better ventilation, and stools where you can sit and talk for a long time and are more intimate.
不过暂时还没有患者进去过。
But no patient has been admitted yet.
据我所知，目前在武汉的一线精神科医生是70人左右。
As far as I know, the number of first-line psychiatrists in Wuhan is about 70.
我也会跟其他方舱医院的心理医生交流。
I'll talk to other psychiatrists at the cabin hospital, too.
有的方舱医院开舱不久，心理医生还没有专职做这方面的工作。
Some quarters of the cabin hospital opened shortly, the psychiatrist has not been dedicated to this work.
而且整个方舱要是只有他一个（心理）医生的话，他也会觉得孤军奋战，会有压力感。
And if he was the only doctor in the cabin, he would feel isolated and pressured.
我们有个专家后援团，大多是从事临床心理科数十年的“老江湖”。
We have an expert support group, mostly engaged in clinical psychology for decades "old river lake."
他们给了很大的支持，经常会发一些“干货”到群里给我们看。
They give a lot of support, often send some "dry goods" to the group to show us.
如果我们遇到疑难个案很难处理，就可以通过这个后援团找到一个资深的教授或者主任医师指导。
If it is difficult to deal with difficult cases, we can find a senior professor or director through this support group.
网上的心理咨询热线也是一个很重要的途径。
On-line psychological counseling hotline is also a very important way.
很多武汉市民以及愿意主动寻求心理咨询但害怕在方舱这个“小社区”内暴露的患者会去拨打心理热线。
Many Wuhan residents, as well as those who are willing to seek counseling but are afraid to be exposed in the "small community" of the cabin, will call the psychological hotline.
不论什么途径，我希望每个人都能怀着一个健康的心态度过疫情，总会好的。
No matter what way, I hope everyone can get through the epidemic with a healthy mind, will always be good.
我本科是在武汉大学医学院上的，等结束了，我想回去一趟，见见老师，应该也能见到这次疫情的战友，爬一次珞珈山，看看樱花。
My undergraduate is at Wuhan University School of Medicine, and so on end, I would like to go back, meet the teachers, should also see this outbreak of comrades, climb once Lakkkia Mountain, see cherry.
戳这里进入“全国新型冠状病毒感染病例实时地图”↓↓↓本期编辑 周玉华推荐阅读。
Poke here into a "National Real-Time Map of Cases of Coronavirus Infection," Dou Chou, editor of this issue, recommended reading.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“你们是不是觉得太危险，不要我们了”。
"Don't you think it's too dangerous for us?"
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "“你们是不是觉得太危险，不要我们了”";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; "Do you think it was too dangerous to have us?" & quot;
var msg_desc = "方舱里的100种情绪";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; 100 & quot; in the cabin.
title: '湖北：监狱、看守所原则上只进不出',。
Hubei: Not at all in prison or detention centre.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '一名空乘确诊，5名复工人员被隔离',。
A flight attendant was diagnosed and five reinstated workers were quarantined with service.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '3省5个监狱共确诊555例，司法部谈疫情细节漏洞',。
Ritle: & apos; 555 cases were diagnosed in five prisons in three provinces. & nbsp; & # 160; & # 45; & Justice & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
