抗疫、漫画、追星、拍Vlog……这届90后护士另类又强大。
Anti-epidemic, caricature, star-chasing, shooting Vlog... This 90-year-old nurse alternative and powerful.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻记者 陈斯斯Play来自瑞金医院的90后护士在前线制作了抗疫Vlog。
Pang journalist Chens Play, a 90-year-old nurse from Ruijin Hospital, made Vlog on the front line.
视频来源：受访者 视频剪辑：曾怡文(01:34)爱看吃播的夏琼华，在武汉抗疫前线身兼数职，其中包括整理隔离病房的垃圾和病人脱下来的衣物。
Video clips of interviewees: Tseng Yi-wen (01: 34) loves watching Xia Qionghua, who works on the front lines of the Wuhan anti-epidemic, including sorting garbage in isolation wards and removing clothes from patients.
防护服写着歌词的张俊杰，曾在重症监护室连续工作10多个小时，除了护理工作，还要给他们喂水、喂饭、清理大小便。
Zhang Junjie, whose lyrics are written in protective clothing, worked for more than 10 hours in the intensive care unit, feeding them water, feeding and defecating.
而在防护服上写着“林书豪女朋友”的沈妍，走出隔离病房浑身是汗，脸上是深深的口罩印。
Shen Yan, who wrote "Lin Shuhao's girlfriend" on the protective clothing, walked out of the isolation ward sweaty with a deep mask on his face.
他们是上海90后护士，会教病人玩视频软件，会通过画漫画、看吃播、唱歌解压，会在防护服上写上各种文字甚至画画，也许会让人觉得有些另类，但在抗疫中他们很强大。
They are Shanghai 90 nurses. They teach their patients video software. They can draw cartoons, watch TV, sing songs to relieve pressure, write words on protective clothing and even draw pictures.
朱酉琦将自己的漫画作品送给即将出院的病人。
Zhu Youqi gave his comic books to patients who were leaving the hospital.
90后“灵魂画手”创作《小笼包遇上热干面》画漫画，这项技能对许多90后护士来说不在话下。
90 "Soul Painter" after the creation of "small cage bag meet hot and dry noodles" drawing caricatures, this skill for many post-90 nurses.
“热干面别怕，小笼包来了”、“加油！我们都是武汉人”，这是1993年出生的朱酉琦的漫画作品上的文字。
"Don't be afraid of hot and dry noodles," "Come on! We are all Wuhan people," which is from the comic book of Zhu Youqi, born in 1993.
来自上海瑞金医院北院的她，目前在武汉同济光谷医院E3-4隔离病房工作。
She is currently working in the E3-4 isolation ward of Tongji Guang Gu Hospital in Wuhan.
根据排班，她每次进入隔离病房要4个小时，进去之前穿一套防护服就要半小时，进去后她不能喝水、上厕所，经常穿完就一身汗了，进舱后巡视病房一圈或者发药、发饭、治疗等，中间都要缓一缓，不然就会有些缺氧的感觉。
According to the schedule, it took her four hours to enter the isolation ward each time, half an hour to put on a suit of protective clothing before going in. After that, she could not drink water, go to the toilet, often sweaty when she was finished, walk around the ward after going into the cabin or give medicine, food, treatment, etc.
她回忆说，第一次准备出舱、脱掉防护服弯腰时，有水滴下来，她发现是汗顺着护目镜滴下来了，而整套防护服脱完，基本上她穿在里面的衣服全部湿透。
She recalls that the first time she tried to get out of the cabin and take off her protective clothing, water dripped down and she found the sweat dripping down the goggles.
爱好画画的她把这项技能带到了前线，她的作品被贴在病房窗户上，她还会画一些画，赠送给即将出院的病人。
She brings this skill to the front line. Her work is pasted on a ward window, and she draws pictures and presents them to patients leaving the hospital.
来自上海市第一人民医院90后护士邹芳草的漫画作品。
Comic work of Zou Fangcao, a nurse from Shanghai First People's Hospital 90.
本文除署名外，均为受访者供图“小笼包遇上热干面，一条江系上两座城。
In addition to the signature, this article is for the interviewee "small cage bag meets hot and dry noodles, a river on two cities."
”这几天，一张画着上海小笼包与武汉热干面顺利“会师”的原创漫画，在上海市第一人民医院前线医疗队朋友圈里刷屏，“求连载”“求更新”的需求纷至沓来。
Over the past few days, an original cartoon depicting the smooth operation of the Shanghai Xiaocao Bao and Wuhan hot-and-dry noodles has swept the screen in the circle of friends of the front-line medical team at Shanghai's First People's Hospital.
漫画原作者正是来自上海市第一人民医院的90后护士邹芳草，她是“隐身”于医疗队的“灵魂画手”。
The original author of the cartoon is Zou Fangcao, a 90-year-old nurse from Shanghai First People's Hospital. She is the "soul painter" of the medical team.
来武汉的前一晚，她在行李箱里带上了画图工具——平板电脑。
The night before she came to Wuhan, she carried a drawing tool, the tablet computer, in her suitcase.
90后护士邹芳草画的Q版医疗队队员。
Nurse Zou Fangcao 90 after the QEECH team members.
2月19日，抵达武汉雷神山的第一晚，她画了白大褂版和迷彩服版的护士姐姐、医生哥哥Q版“出征照”，没想到从那一晚开始，就一发不可收拾，诸多同事向她“催稿”。
On Feb. 19, the first night she arrived in Wuhan Raytheon Mountain, she painted the white coat version and camouflage version of the nurse sister, the doctor's brother version of the "war photos," did not expect from that night on, a lot of colleagues to her "draft.
渐渐地，每日更新“插画版”日记，成了邹芳草每天工作结束后的幸福折磨。
Gradually, the daily update of the "illustrations" diary, has become Zou Fangcao every day after the happy torture.
“隔离病房内四处可见的白，记录本上密密麻麻的病例文字记录，我希望通过线条的勾勒、色彩的变化能记录下雷神山病房里生动的每一幕，也给我的市一‘战友们’换一种心情，舒缓一下情绪。
"White is everywhere in the isolation ward, the medical record book is dense, I hope through the line outline, color changes can record every scene in the Lei Shenshan ward, but also give my city a 'comrade-in-arms' a change of mood, ease a little.
” 邹芳草说。
"said Zou Fangcao.
在她看来，时间久了，照片就会变成手机相册里的一串数据，只有画下来，才能被记住，成为永恒。
In her view, over time, the photo will become a collection of data in the phone album, only to draw down, can be remembered, become eternal.
90后护士邹芳草最喜欢的漫画作品《吃豆人》。
Zou Fangcao's favorite comic work "Zou Fangcao" after 90.
每次作画前，她都会在脑海中再次回味一天中印象最为深刻的一件事或一个场景。
Every time she does a painting, she remembers one of the most memorable events or scenes of the day in her mind.
每日唠叨却又无微不至照顾他们生活的“队妈”“队爸”，穿全套设备时要牢记一百遍的注意事项，变身奥特曼与病毒大战的同事“大白”，纪念市一医疗队在驻地的第一次“巴林特小组”……原本严肃枯燥的每日工作细节，在她笔下变为“走心画作”。
"Team mother" and "team father," who nagged daily but took care of their lives, had to remember a hundred times when wearing the complete set of equipment, became Altman and his colleagues in the virus war, commemorating the city's first "Bahrain Team" medical team at the site.
她最喜欢吃豆人这幅画，觉得跟医疗队很像，“吃到豆豆就是治愈患者，为了吃到豆豆要努力躲避小怪兽，就好像我们每天和病魔作斗争却又不能碰到病毒，患者痊愈就是我们的最大胜利。
She likes the picture of Bean Man best. Like the medical team, "To eat beans is to cure the sick. To eat beans is to try to avoid small monsters, as if we fight the disease every day without touching the virus."
”为病人下载短视频分散注意力一件小小的防护衣，也成为90后护士们的“创作地”。
"Downloading a short video for patients distracts attention from a small protective clothing, and has become a" creative place "for nurses after 90.
不写自己的名字，也不写来自哪家医院，创意十足的90后有人写上了“热干面加油”，还有人写上了自己的偶像。
Not writing their own names, not from which hospital, creative 90 after someone wrote "hot dry noodles refueling," and others wrote their idols.
90后护士沈妍在自己的防护服上写了“林书豪女朋友”。
Nurse Shen Yan wrote "Lin Shuhao's girlfriend" on her protective clothing.
90后护士沈妍是上海第一批支援湖北医疗队队员，目前在金银潭医院工作。
90-year-old nurse Shen Yan was one of the first Shanghai medical team members to support Hubei Medical Team.
尽管隔离病房条件艰苦、排班任务重，还面临被病毒感染的风险，但沈妍很乐观，还在自己的防护服上写上“林书豪女朋友”，给自己加油打气。
Despite the harsh conditions in the isolation ward, the heavy shift schedule and the risk of infection, Yan was optimistic and wrote "Lin Shuhao's girlfriend" on his suit to cheer himself up.
2月19日晚上8点多她夜班回家，发了一则微博祈祷“疫情早点结束”，并表示也想去首钢看林书豪打球，同时@林书豪。
February 19 more than 8 p.m. she came home at night, a tweet prayer "the end of the epidemic as soon as possible," and said that also want to see Shougang Lin Shuhao playing ball, at the same time @ Lin Shuhao.
次日，她看到林书豪转发了自己的微博，激动地告诉朋友，“感觉整个人都晕乎乎的，腰不痛了腿不酸了。
The next day, she saw Lin shuhao forward his micro-blog, excitedly told friends, "I feel the whole person is dizzy, the waist painless leg is not sour.
”脱下防护服走出隔离病房的沈妍浑身是汗。
"Take off her protective clothing and walk out of the isolation ward.
1990年出生的张俊杰，是来自上海胸科医院导管室的男护士，在金银潭医院工作一个多月。
Born in 1990, Zhang Junjie, a male nurse from the catheter room of Shanghai Chest Hospital, worked for more than a month at the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
他在防护服后写了大大的“吴青峰铁粉”，两旁还配了“甘愿赴汤蹈火去走它一遍”、“将青春翻涌成她”，这两句话出自歌手吴青峰演唱的《起风了》中的一句歌词。
He wrote a huge "Wu Qingfeng iron powder" after the suit, along with "willing to go through fire and water it again", "youth surged into her," from singer Wu Qingfeng's "Wind up the Wind.
他的工作地点在重症监护室，曾穿着厚重闷热的防护服，连续工作超过10小时。
He worked in the intensive care unit and wore heavy, stuffy protective clothing for more than 10 hours.
因为没有护工，每个护士需要承担起基础护理之外的很多工作，给病人喂水、喂饭、清理大小便，就连梳头、剪指甲也得依靠护士来完成。
Because there are no caregivers, each nurse has to do much more than basic care, feeding, cleaning, and even combing and clipping her nails.
来自上海胸科医院导管室的90后男护士张俊杰，在防护服后写了“吴青峰铁粉”，还写了两句歌词。
Zhang Junjie, a 90-year-old male nurse from the catheter room of Shanghai Chest Hospital, wrote "Wu Qingfeng Iron Powder" after the protective clothing and wrote two lyrics.
微信公众号@话匣子 图在病床旁张俊杰还帮一位病人下载短视频。
Microcredit Public Number @ chatterbox at the bedside Zhang Junjie also helped a patient download a short video.
“他一下子像发现了新大陆一样，发现这个软件还蛮好用、蛮好玩的，这样一下子分散了他的注意力。
"He was like he'd found a new continent. He found the software was pretty easy to use and fun to use, and it distracted him.
”张俊杰说，病人发自内心的快乐，对他来说是一种工作动力。
Zhang said the patient's heartfelt happiness was a motivator for him.
看吃播解压“压力其实没什么，没有什么是一顿饭不能解决的，一顿不行，就两顿，没什么过不去的。
"There's nothing really wrong with stress. There's nothing you can't do with a meal, not a meal, just two meals, nothing too much.
”这是90后护士夏琼华的口头禅。
This is the mantra of nurse Xia Qionghua after 90.
夏琼华是瑞金医院肝胆外科的一名护士。
Xia Qionghua is a nurse in hepatobiliary surgery at Ruijin Hospital.
对于她来说，相比在上海工作，在武汉同济光谷院区的工作节奏更为紧张，她可以说是身兼数职，每天整理医嘱、帮病人协调各项检查与化验，有时也做院感的工作，消毒舱内外环境。
For her, the pace of work in the Tongji Valley courtyard in Wuhan is more intense than in Shanghai, where she is doing several things: arranging doctors' orders, coordinating examinations and tests for patients, sometimes doing hospital work and disinfecting the environment inside and outside the building.
“别看我的工作琐碎，但其实非常重要，我感觉自己责任比之前更重了，我们的工作主要是架起了隔离病房内外的桥梁，是为了病人护理工作的延续性，在看到病人的化验医嘱，特别是核酸检测和CT检查的医嘱后，我们会通知舱内的护士，帮病人去预约检查，每天下班前还要去盯下这些检查的落实情况，再做好交接班的工作。
"Although my work is trivial, it is very important. I feel more responsible than before. Our job is to build a bridge between the inside and outside the ward. After seeing the patient's doctor's instructions, especially nucleic acid test and CT examination, we will inform the nurse on board to make an appointment.
”夏琼华说。
"said Xia Qionghua.
她的工作还包括整理隔离病房的垃圾、医护人员脱下的工作衣、手术服，至病人脱下来的衣物等。
Her job also includes tidying up the garbage in the isolation ward, undressing medical staff, surgeries and clothing that patients take off.
每天上班前，她还要去领取生活物资以及防护物资，谁缺了都管她要，同事们都亲切地喊她“夏阿姨”。
Every day before work, she has to go to collect the living materials and protective materials, who want to ignore her, colleagues affectionately called her "Aunt Xia."
出生于1992年的她，爱好之一就是美食，与家人、朋友聊天或者吃东西是她缓解压力的方式之一，休息时她在酒店还会看看吃播，“想想回去之后要让爸爸给我烧这些那些美食，心情马上就会快乐起来。
Born in 1992, one of her hobbies was gourmet food. Chatting with family, friends or eating was one of her ways to relieve stress. During the break she would watch TV and food at the hotel.
”夏琼华准备出征武汉时的照片。
"Xia Qionghua prepares to go on a tour of Wuhan.
夏琼华还有另外一个爱好唱歌，休息时会在酒店哼两句，还在前线制作了一个抗疫Vlog，Vlog的音乐《相亲相爱》还是自己唱的。
She also has another love of singing, humming at the hotel during break time, and making a Vlog, Vlog's music "Love Me" on the front line or singing on its own.
对于制作的初衷，她表示：“周围的小伙伴给了自己灵感。
"The people around her inspired me," she says of the original idea.
”“我们A组的小伙伴包括瑞金的团队都给我是家人的感觉，有朋友捐赠物品了都会放在我们的‘小超市’共享，我们组长朱琳对我们也像妈妈一样的温暖，有小伙伴生病了她马上调整班表，为小伙伴送上一日三餐，有危险性的操作她都是自己冲在前面，在我们下班累了的时候，组里的小伙伴都讲些笑话与我们分享，还有患者夸我们，这些都让我觉得我们就像一家人。
"Our friends in Group A, including Ruijin's team, felt like my family. Some of our friends gave gifts to us. Our group leader, Jolie, was as warm to us as our mother.
”夏琼华一直很难忘记病人对自己说过的话：“看不清你们的脸，但是你们的眼睛特别地亮。
"It has been difficult for Xia Qionghua to forget what the patient said to herself:" I can't see your faces clearly, but your eyes are very bright.
”朱酉琦（中间）与同事们在武汉同济光谷医院隔离病房合影。
Zhu Youqi (middle) took a photo with his colleagues in the isolation ward of Wuhan Tongji Guang Gu Hospital.
类似的话，朱酉琦也听到过，“虽然看不清你的脸，但谢谢你们来帮助我。
Similarly, Zhu Youqi also heard, "Although you can not see your face, but thank you for helping me.
”每每听到这句话，她觉得自己是在做一件非常有意义的事情。
"When she heard this, she felt that she was doing something very meaningful.
朱酉琦坦言：“以前大家印象里90后都比较娇生惯养，吃不起苦，但我们这个医疗队近一半以上的人都是90后，我作为90后也是一名入党积极分子，在发生疫情时也会责无旁贷，90后可以用行动去证明，自己是能够担得起责任的，保卫自己的祖国，用自己的所学的专业，去阻止疫情的蔓延。
'People used to think that 90 years later they were more pampered and unbearable, but I, as a 90-plus member of the medical team, was also an active member of the Party in times of crisis. I could prove by my actions that I could take charge, defend my country and use my knowledge to stop the spread of the disease.
”“我爷爷是老党员，我从小就想向爷爷看齐，家人都很支持我的决定，觉得我应该为这次疫情出一份力。
"" My grandfather was an old Party member, and I wanted to see Grandpa as a child, and my family was very supportive of my decision.
”这是90后护士夏琼华的独白。
"This is the 90-year-old nurse Xia Qionghua's monologue.
戳这里进入“全国新型冠状病毒感染病例实时地图”↓↓↓本期编辑 周玉华推荐阅读。
Poke here into a "National Real-Time Map of Cases of Coronavirus Infection," Dou Chou, editor of this issue, recommended reading.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
抗疫、漫画、追星、拍Vlog……这届90后护士另类又强大。
Anti-epidemic, caricature, star-chasing, shooting Vlog... This 90-year-old nurse alternative and powerful.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "抗疫、漫画、追星、拍Vlog……这届90后护士另类又强大";。
var msg _ title = & quot; against plague, manga, star-hunting, and Vlog... & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; class 90.
var msg_desc = "“看不清你们的脸，但是你们的眼睛特别地亮”";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "I couldn't see your face, but your eyes were particularly bright";
title: '湖北：监狱、看守所原则上只进不出',。
Hubei: Not at all in prison or detention centre.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '一名空乘确诊，5名复工人员被隔离',。
A flight attendant was diagnosed and five reinstated workers were quarantined with service.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '3省5个监狱共确诊555例，司法部谈疫情细节漏洞',。
Ritle: & apos; 555 cases were diagnosed in five prisons in three provinces. & nbsp; & # 160; & # 45; & Justice & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
