武汉一方舱医院发布紧急通知：拟出院病友需加做病毒抗体检查_中国政库_澎湃新闻-The Paper。
Wuhan Hatch Hospital issued an emergency notice: to draw up hospital patients need to do anti-virus antibody examination _ China Treasury _ The Paper.
报料。
News feed.
注册。
Registration.
登录。
Login.
下载APP。
Download APP.
精选。
Selected.
抗疫。
Anti-epidemic.
抗疫防控新型冠状病毒肺炎。
Anti-epidemic control of new coronavirus pneumonia.
。
.
视频。
Video.
上直播。
Live broadcast.
拉近你与现场距离。
Bring you closer to the scene.
七环视频。
Seven-ring video.
为了更美好的生活。
For a better life.
温度计。
Thermometers.
深度记录社会冷暖。
Depth of record society warm and cold.
一级视场。
Level 1 field of view.
及时现场，洞察财经事件。
On-site, insight into financial issues.
World湃。
World surging.
看见新闻全球化。
See the globalization of information.
湃客科技。
Pai guest technology.
聚焦前沿，展现新兴企业。
Focus on the frontier and showcase emerging businesses.
纪录湃。
The record runs high.
纪录澎湃中国。
China is on record.
围观。
Look around.
以影像介入社会生活。
Imaging into social life.
@所有人。
@ All.
所有人在看。
Everyone's watching.
大都会。
Metropolis.
看上海 最都会。
It's the best city in Shanghai.
追光灯。
Searchlight.
让你看到文艺生活。
Let you see the literary life.
运动装。
Sportswear.
直观运动，可以装不要伪装。
Intuitive movement, can be installed without camouflage.
健寻记。
Health care.
追寻活到一百岁的秘诀。
The secret to living to be a hundred years old.
AI播报。
AI announces.
互联网新闻+：AI播报。
Internet news +: AI broadcasts.
眼界。
Eye-catching.
每日一条视频，与新闻同步。
One video per day, synced with the news.
时事。
Current affairs.
中国政库洞悉中国动向的时政解读。
China's treasurer has insight into the current state of affairs in China.
中南海权威细致的领导人报道。
Zhongnanhai authority meticulous leader report.
舆论场倾听复杂世界的弦外之音。
Opinion circles listen to the implications of the complex world.
打虎记中国反腐报道第一平台。
Tiger Kit China Anti-Corruption Report First Platform.
人事风向快速专业的人事信息集合地。
Personnel wind speed and professional collection of personnel information.
法治中国司改风向，法治观察。
Rule of Law China Division wind direction, rule of law observation.
一号专案司法个案，法治调查。
Ad hoc Judicial Case No. 1, Rule of Law Investigations.
港台来信感觉不一样的港台报道。
RTHK's letter feels different from RTHK's report.
长三角政商解读区域政情与财富故事。
The Yangtze River Delta political and economic interpretation of regional political and wealth story.
直击现场第一现场，文图视频直播。
Click on the scene of the first scene, text video live.
公益湃记录公益发展，共建责任生态。
Public welfare record of public welfare development, jointly build ecological responsibility.
。
.
暖闻人间真善美，社会正能量。
Hear the world is good and beautiful, society is positive energy.
。
.
澎湃质量报告打假除劣，破套防坑——专注消费者权益保护。
Pai Pai quality report to fight fraud and shoddy, broken pit - focus on consumer rights and interests protection.
绿政公署环境与公共健康调查。
Environmental and Public Health Survey of the Green Administration.
澎湃国际All News In。
All News In, Peng Pai.
外交学人New World Order。
Diplomat New World Order.
澎湃防务Cyclopedia for military。
Cyclopedia for military defence.
唐人街海外利益，华人故事。
Overseas Interests in Chinatown, Chinese Stories.
澎湃人物提供最有态度的人物报道。
The roaring characters provide the most critical coverage of the characters.
浦江头条上海每天最重要的事件。
The most important events of the day in Shanghai.
教育家最先进的教育理念在此碰撞。
Educators' most advanced educational ideas collide here.
全景现场360度感识全景现场。
Panoramic scene 360-degree panorama scene.
美数课数字是骨骼，设计是灵魂。
Numbers are bones; design is the soul.
快看快看，图片会说话。
Look quick. Pictures talk.
财经。
Finance.
10%公司派发上市公司变革红利。
10 per cent distribute change dividends to listed companies.
能见度能源行业最具穿透力的思想。
Visibility The most penetrating thinking in the energy industry.
地产界地产界所有你想知道的事儿。
Real estate Everything you want to know.
财经上下游跨界找寻市场常识。
Cross-boundary market common sense.
金改实验室金融创新灵感集散地。
Financial innovation center of Jinchang Lab.
牛市点线面简单专业时尚的财富平台。
Bull market simple professional fashion wealth platform.
科技湃让我们走近科学。
Technology has brought us closer to science.
澎湃商学院品牌课外书，生活经济学。
Peng Pai Business School Brand Extracurricular Books, Life Economics.
自贸区连线自贸区第一信息和服务平台。
Free Trade Area line free trade area first information and service platform.
进博会在线走进中国国际进口博览会。
Into the Fair online into China International Import Expo.
澎湃号。
'cried the roar.
湃客。
The roar.
政务。
Government affairs.
媒体。
The media.
思想。
Ideas.
社论澎湃的立场。
The editorial was strong.
澎湃评论在这里知道更多。
Pai Pai comments know more here.
思想湃明亮的对话，澎湃的思想。
Thoughts of bright dialogue, surging thoughts.
上海书评全球百位华文写作名家撰稿。
The Shanghai Book Review is written by 100 leading Chinese writers.
思想市场有竞争的思想讲底蕴的政治。
The thought market has the competitive thought to speak the underlying politics.
私家历史发现历史之美。
Private history finds the beauty of history.
翻书党微时代的首选书单。
Turn over the book party microage first choice book list.
艺术评论独立态度解析中外艺术热点。
Artistic Comment Independent Attitude Analyzes the Hot Spots of Chinese and Foreign Art.
古代艺术巡礼人类的艺术遗产。
Ancient Art Parades the artistic heritage of mankind.
文化课关注人文景观投身人类文明。
Cultural courses focus on humanistic landscape into human civilization.
逝者记录逝者为世界留下的财富。
The dead record the wealth left to the world by the dead.
澎湃研究所为中国城市问题提供澎湃方案。
The Peng Pai Institute offers a robust programme on urban issues in China.
。
.
市政厅中国城市问题专家。
City Hall of China experts on urban issues.
城市漫步人塑造地方，地方也塑造人。
Urban strollers shape places, and places shape people.
智库报告展示全球最具价值的智库研究成果。
The think tank report showcases the world's most valuable think tank research.
专栏名家专家，上天入地。
An expert columnist.
异次元打破次元壁。
Heterogeneous element breaks the secondary wall.
生活。
Life.
有戏陪你过一种审美的生活。
Have a play to accompany you to live an aesthetic life.
文艺范一线文艺生活。
Literary and artistic life.
身体探索身体的奥秘。
The body explores the secrets of the body.
私·奔跑步是一种态度。
Personal running is an attitude.
运动家看体育如何改变世界。
Athletes see how sport can change the world.
私家地理旅途的旨趣、技艺以及乡愁。
The Purport, Skill, and Nostalgia of the Private Geographic Journey.
非常品用态度引领时尚。
A very good attitude leads to fashion.
楼市不一样的楼市观察。
Different property market observation.
生活方式更好生活，我们有一些意见。
We have some suggestions for a better way of life.
澎湃联播半个段子兽半个评论猿。
Half a section of the beast commented on apes.
视界视界观，观世界。
Look at the world, look at the world.
亲子学堂理解孩子，认知自己。
Parents and children learn to understand their children, know themselves.
赢家直击中国体育产业生存现状。
Winners strike at the survival of China's sports industry.
汽车圈专注汽车产经报道。
Auto industry focus on the auto industry report.
问吧。
'he asked.
订阅。
Subscriptions.
把你最喜欢的栏目添加到这里来哦。
Add your favorite column here.
马上登录。
Sign in now.
setMsgMark(); //login异步之后调用位置修改。
Call location modification after setMsgMark; / / login asynchronous.
// 顶部广告自适应。
/ / Top Advertising Adaptability.
// xml返回了creativeHeight。
/ / xml returned creativeLight.
//图片拓展图片时。
/ / Photo when expanding the picture.
if(typeof(xml.find("Cexpansion")[0])!="undefined"){   //是否需要展开。
If (typeof (xml. find; Cempansion & quot;) & # 91; 0 & # 93;)! = & quot; underdefined & quot;) {/ / whether it needs to be carried out.
var cexpansion = xml.find("Cexpansion")[0].textContent.trim();//展开时。
var text = xml. find (& quot; Cempansion & quot;) & # 91; 0 & # 93; .text Content.
//图片拓展视频时   。
/ / Photo when expanding the video.
//视频拓展视频时。
/ / Video when expanding the video.
//收起广告。
/ / Put the ad away.
//将 http://或者https:// 转为//。
/ / Conversion from http: / / https: / / to /.
首页。
Home page.
> 中国政库。
China's treasury.
武汉一方舱医院发布紧急通知：拟出院病友需加做病毒抗体检查。
Wuhan square cabin hospital issued emergency notice: to draw up hospital patients need to do virus antibody testing.
澎湃新闻记者 汤琪。
The journalist Tommy Pai.
2020-03-04 21:46 来源：澎湃新闻。
2020-03-04 21: 46 Source: news surging.
字号。
The font size.
超大。
Extremely large.
大。
Big.
标准。
Standards.
小。
Small.
3月4日晚，武汉市江岸方舱医院一名负责人向澎湃新闻（www.thepaper.cn）证实，江岸方舱医院发布了一份《紧急通知》：根据市防疫指挥部最新通报，近期出院患者中复发者较多，导致患者重新入院治疗。
On the night of March 4, a person in charge of the river bank cabin hospital in Wuhan confirmed to the news (www.thepaper.cn) that the riverbank cabin hospital had issued an Emergency Notice: According to the latest notice from the municipal epidemic prevention command, more patients had recently been discharged from the hospital, leading to re-admission.
为了减少病情复发，确保大家彻底治愈，达到“零回头”目标，经医院研究决定，即日对所有在舱拟出院病友抽血加做病毒抗体Ig-M与Ig-G的检查，确保病友完全康复出院，敬请各位病友配合。
In order to reduce the recurrence of the disease, to ensure a complete cure, to achieve the "zero-back" goal, the hospital decided, that is, all in the hospital to draw up hospital patients blood added to the Ig-M and Ig-G, to ensure the full recovery of patients discharged from the hospital, respectfully request your cooperation.
上述检查将从明天（3月5日）开始。
The inspection will begin tomorrow (March 5).
该负责人表示，市防疫指挥部通知他们，有患者出舱以后出现核酸检测转阳的情况，所以为了患者彻底治好，加做病毒抗体Ig-M与Ig-G的检查。
The person in charge said the city anti-epidemic command informed them that there was a patient out of the cabin after the nucleic acid test turned positive, so for a complete cure, add the virus antibodies Ig-M and Ig-G inspection.
“加做抗体（出结果）很快，明天开始（给患者）做，明天晚上就可以出结果。
"Addition of antibodies [results] is quick, starting tomorrow [for the patient] and the results will be available tomorrow night.
”该负责人说，为了使患者彻底治愈，江岸方舱医院决定采取上述措施。
The director said the hospital had decided to take the measures in order to cure the patient completely.
至于其他方舱医院是否也会加做抗体检查，该负责人表示尚不清楚。
As for whether other cabin hospitals will also add antibody tests, the director said it is not clear.
据澎湃新闻此前报道，针对部分新冠肺炎出院患者出现核酸检测复检阳性的问题，最新发布的《新型冠状病毒肺炎诊疗方案（试行第七版）》调整了出院后注意事项，将原来诊疗方案中出院患者“应继续进行14天自我健康状况监测”改为“应继续进行14天的隔离管理和健康状况监测”。
"The newly released" New Coronavirus Pneumonia Diagnosis and Treatment Program (Trial Version 7) "has adjusted the post-discharge precautions by changing the" 14-day self-health surveillance "to" 14-day isolation management and health surveillance. "
同时，相比前一版诊疗方案，第七版的诊疗方案增加了血清学证据，即如果疑似病例的血清学检查新冠病毒特异性IgM抗体和IgG抗体阳性；血清新冠病毒特异IgG抗体由阴性转为阳性或者恢复期比急性期4倍以上升高便可确诊为新冠肺炎。
At the same time, compared to the previous version of the diagnosis and treatment programme, the seventh edition of the diagnostic programme added serological evidence, that is, new crown virus-specific IgM antibody and IgG antibody-positive in suspected cases; new crown virus-specific IgG antibody may be diagnosed as new crown pneumonia if the specific IgG antibody changes from negative to positive or when the recovery period is more than four times higher than the acute phase.
针对疑似病例的排除，也需要在连续两次新冠病毒核酸检测阴性（采样时间至少间隔24小时）且发病7天后新冠病毒特异性抗体IgM和IgG仍为阴性才可排除疑似病例诊断。
For the exclusion of suspected cases, the diagnosis of suspected cases also needs to be ruled out after two consecutive Nucleic Acid (Nucleic Acid Testing) negative (at least 24 hours after sampling) and seven days after the onset of the disease, when IgM and IgG are negative.
(本文来自澎湃新闻，更多原创资讯请下载“澎湃新闻”APP)。
(This article comes from Pai Pai News. For more original information, please download the "Peng Pai News" APP.)
【专题】防控新冠肺炎。
Topic: Prevention and control of new crown pneumonia.
责任编辑：蒋晨锐。
Responsibility Editor: Jiang Chenrui.
澎湃新闻报料：4009-20-4009  澎湃新闻，未经授权不得转载。
Pai news: 4009-20-4009 surging news, not allowed to reproduce without authorization.
关键词 >> 武汉。
Key words: & gt; Wuhan.
收藏。
Collection.
跟踪: 疫情防控。
Tracking: Disease control.
相关推荐。
Relevant recommendations.
武昌方舱34人治愈，累计出舱136人。
Thirty-four people in Wuchang's cabin were cured, and 136 people came out.
图集。
Atlas.
全民战疫｜雷神山医院首例治愈患者：83岁袁奶奶今日出院。
The first case of cure at Shenshan Hospital: Grandma Yuan, 83, was discharged from hospital today.
在方舱｜等病好了，我要请医生吃饭。
I'll treat the doctor to dinner when I get well, such as in the cabin.
评论（18）。
Commentary (18).
热新闻。
Hot news.
一天。
One day.
三天。
Three days.
一周。
One week.
全球首例！香港确诊狗感染病毒：系新冠肺炎确诊患者的爱犬。
First case in the world! Confirmed Dog Infection Virus in Hong Kong: A Dog for Patients Confirmed with Newly Coronary Pneumonia.
北京地坛医院首证新冠攻击中枢神经系统，建议完善脑脊液检测。
The first Ditan Hospital in Beijing attacked the central nervous system and suggested improving the CSF test.
微视频丨走！复工啦。
Microvideo into work.
习近平主持召开中共中央政治局常务委员会会议。
Xi chaired a meeting of the Standing Committee of the Politburo.
4128万名党员捐款47.3亿元，支持疫情防控。
41.28 million Party members contributed 4.73 billion yuan to support epidemic prevention and control.
巴基斯坦将全国医院库存口罩捐赠中国。
Pakistan donates national hospital stock masks to China.
国家卫健委：昨日新增确诊病例139例，湖北新增134例。
National Health Commission: 139 new cases were confirmed yesterday and 134 new cases were reported in Hubei Province.
全民战疫｜武汉客厅方舱医院“休舱”：C厅进行第一次洗消。
People's disease, Wuhan living room cabin hospital "cabin": Hall C for the first time.
农业农村部紧急通知：中华鳖乌龟按水生动物管理不入禁食名录。
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs emergency notice: turtle turtle according to aquatic animals management not to enter the list of fast.
原纽约市长布隆伯格宣布退出总统大选，转而支持拜登。
Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg withdrew from the presidential race in favor of Biden.
著名歌唱家克里木去世，他演唱的《掀起你的盖头来》脍炙人口。
Famous singer Kerim died, his singing "lift your head to come" won great acclaim.
中央和国家机关在广大党员中积极开展自愿捐款。
The central and state organs actively solicit voluntary contributions from all Party members.
中国科研团队：新冠病毒已突变，有2个亚型，传染力有差异。
Chinese research team: The new crown virus has mutated, has 2 subtypes, infectivity difference.
全球首例！香港确诊狗感染病毒：系新冠肺炎确诊患者的爱犬。
First case in the world! Confirmed Dog Infection Virus in Hong Kong: A Dog for Patients Confirmed with Newly Coronary Pneumonia.
湖北省神农架林区发生野猪非洲猪瘟疫情，共发现死亡野猪7头。
A total of 7 dead wild boars were found in wild boar African swine fever in Shennongjia forest area of Hubei Province.
福州一在建桥梁倒塌砸到板房，伤亡未明。
A bridge under construction in Fuzhou collapsed into a slab room, the casualties are unknown.
浙江公布7例输入病例情况：同在一家意大利餐厅工作。
Zhejiang announced seven imported cases: working at the same Italian restaurant.
文在寅宣布对新冠病毒作战，韩国进入24小时全面戒备状态。
Wen announced a 24-hour state of full alert for the New Crown Virus.
山东省任城监狱疫情事件已查清。
Shandong Ren Cheng prison outbreak has been clarified.
伊朗版“火神山”医院开建，革命卫队地面部队进入警戒状态。
Iran's version of the "mountain of fire" hospital opened, Revolutionary Guards ground troops into alert.
最新进展！非洲猪瘟疫苗创制成功，向产业化应用迈出坚实一步。
The success of the creation of African swine fever vaccine has taken a solid step towards industrialization.
央视快评：疫情防控不能松，发展工作要抓紧。
CCTV quick comment: the epidemic prevention and control can not relax, development work to grasp.
外交习语｜战“疫”时期，中国元首外交这样开展。
diplomatic idiom: During the plague era, Chinese head of state diplomacy began this way.
守望相助，坚忍不拔——致敬武汉战“疫”中千千万万平凡英雄。
Watching each other and persevering in paying homage to the tens of thousands of ordinary heroes in the "plague" of Wuhan.
“国兴1”号货船在日本海域沉没，7名中国籍船员失踪。
Seven Chinese crew members are missing after the sinking of the vessel Guoxing-1 in Japanese waters.
著名歌唱家克里木去世，他演唱的《掀起你的盖头来》脍炙人口。
Famous singer Kerim died, his singing "lift your head to come" won great acclaim.
9组数据回顾2月战疫，3月继续加油！。
9 groups of data reviewed February plague, continued refuelling in March.
中央和国家机关在广大党员中积极开展自愿捐款。
The central and state organs actively solicit voluntary contributions from all Party members.
景区开放，机票卖出白菜价，疫情过后你想去哪？。
The scenic spot is open, the ticket sells the cabbage price, after the epidemic situation you want to go?
中央指导组现场指导督导监狱和社会福利院疫情防控工作。
The Central Steering Group provides on-site guidance and supervision of epidemic prevention and control in prisons and social welfare institutions.
澎湃新闻APP下载。
Pai news APP download.
热话题。
Hot topics.
一天。
One day.
三天。
Three days.
一周。
One week.
我是在日本新闻一线工作,新冠疫情中日本政界和民众态度如何,问我吧!。
I am working in the front line of Japanese journalism. What is the attitude of Japanese politics and people in the New Crown Epidemic? Ask me.
我旅居意大利17年,疫情下当地民众生活什么样,问我吧!。
I've been living in Italy for 17 years. Ask me what life is like for the local population.
疫情面前，你家亲戚让你操心了吗？。
Did your relatives worry you about the outbreak?
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
我是韩国庆熙大学博士万延娇,疫情中的首尔什么样,问吧!。
I'm Dr. Wan Yanjiao of Kyeongxi University in Korea. What's Seoul like in the epidemic? Ask.
我是在日本新闻一线工作,新冠疫情中日本政界和民众态度如何,问我吧!。
I am working in the front line of Japanese journalism. What is the attitude of Japanese politics and people in the New Crown Epidemic? Ask me.
我旅居意大利17年,疫情下当地民众生活什么样,问我吧!。
I've been living in Italy for 17 years. Ask me what life is like for the local population.
我是韩国庆熙大学博士万延娇,疫情中的首尔什么样,问吧!。
I'm Dr. Wan Yanjiao of Kyeongxi University in Korea. What's Seoul like in the epidemic? Ask.
疫情面前，你家亲戚让你操心了吗？。
Did your relatives worry you about the outbreak?
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
我旅居意大利17年,疫情下当地民众生活什么样,问我吧!。
I've been living in Italy for 17 years. Ask me what life is like for the local population.
我是在日本新闻一线工作,新冠疫情中日本政界和民众态度如何,问我吧!。
I am working in the front line of Japanese journalism. What is the attitude of Japanese politics and people in the New Crown Epidemic? Ask me.
我是韩国庆熙大学博士万延娇,疫情中的首尔什么样,问吧!。
I'm Dr. Wan Yanjiao of Kyeongxi University in Korea. What's Seoul like in the epidemic? Ask.
疫情面前，你家亲戚让你操心了吗？。
Did your relatives worry you about the outbreak?
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
热门推荐。
Hot recommendations.
武汉市拟派驻督导组进驻武汉各监所。
Wuhan city to send supervisory groups into Wuhan prison.
中国-世卫联合考察报告：新冠系动物源性病毒。
Report of the China-WHO Joint Mission: New Crown Animal Origin Virus.
试点接受教育减免交通违法记分等6项新措施3月1日起实施。
Six new measures were introduced on March 1, such as pilot acceptance of education and reduction of illegal traffic points.
钟南山领衔在顶级医学期刊发文：不要误读潜伏期中最小最大值。
Zhong Nan Shan leads in the top medical journal Issue: Do not misread the incubation period during the minimum maximum.
人物丨埃及“最后的法老”穆巴拉克去世，功过是非付青史评说。
The death of the character, the "last pharaoh," is a tribute to non-payment of history.
var lbdHeight = $(".head_ad").height()+$(".head").height()+$(".main_rt").height()-260; //滑到体到顶部的高度。
var lbdLight = $(& quot; .head _ ad & quot;) .height () + $(& quot; .head & quot;) .height () + $(& quot; .main _ rt & quot;) .light (-260; / / sliding to top height.
var topHeight = parseInt($(window).scrollTop() + 1 + 70);  //浮动频道高度70。
var topLight = parseInt ($(window) .scrollTop (+ 1 + 70); / / floating channel height 70.
联系我们。
Contact us.
关于澎湃。
About the roar.
在澎湃工作。
Working in the roar.
联系我们。
Contact us.
版权声明。
Copyright statement.
隐私政策。
Privacy policy.
澎湃广告。
There was a roaring advertisement.
友情链接。
Links to friends.
澎湃新闻举报受理和处置办法。
Measures for handling and handling surging news reports.
严正声明。
Solemn declaration.
Copyright © 2014~2020 The Paper All rights reserved.上海东方报业有限公司 | 沪ICP证：沪B2-20170116 | 沪ICP备14003370号 | 互联网新闻信息服务许可证：31120170006。
Shanghai Oriental Daily News Ltd. & # 144; Shanghai ICP Certificate: Shanghai B2-20170116 & # 124; Shanghai ICP Readiness 14003370 & # 124; Internet News Information Service license: 31120170006.
沪公网安备 31010602000299号。
Shanghai Public Net 3101 602000299.
站长统计。
Station master statistics.
c={//监测配置。
c = {/ monitoring configuration.
UA:"UA-thepaper-000002", //客户项目编号,由系统生成。
UA: & quot; UA-theaper-000002 & quot;, / or customer project number, generated by the system.
URL:'//file.thepaper.cn/www/v3/js/iwt-min.js'//iwt.js的URL位置，请客户自行托管JS文件，只需修改此值。
URL::: / / file.thepaper.cn / www.v3 / js / iwt-min.js & apos; / / iwt.js URL location; and / or iwt.js, have its client manage a JS file by yourself, simply modify this value.
//多视频。
/ / Multi-Video.
