贷款也要抗疫，武汉这家民营医院苦撑一月终迎“公立待遇”。
Loans also have to fight against the disease, Wuhan this private hospital in January to finally welcome the "public treatment."
健闻谭卓曌。
My name is Tam.
八点健闻                      。
Eight good news.
八点健闻。
Eight good news.
看得懂的健康专业新闻。
Understandable health professional news.
作为一家改制后的非公医院，汉阳医院在武汉疫情中所面临的考验更为严峻。
As a non-public hospital after the reform, Hanyang Hospital in Wuhan faced a more severe test.
在承担大量救治工作之后，医疗防护物资没有得到政府正规渠道下拨的保障。
After undertaking a large number of medical treatment, medical protection materials have not been allocated under the regular government channels.
有一天，20个医生一个口罩也没有。
One day, 20 doctors did not have a mask.
与公立医院一样，非公医院一样面对疫情，一样对抗疫情，一样猝不及防，一样挺身而出，没有丝毫退缩。
Like public hospitals, non-public hospitals, faced with the same epidemic, the same fight against the epidemic, the same unexpected, stand up to the same, did not shrink.
苦苦支撑的汉阳医院，终于在2月初迎来了一个好消息，它成为武汉市第五批新冠肺炎定点收治医院。
Hanyang Hospital, struggling to support, finally ushered in a good news in early February, it became Wuhan City's fifth batch of fixed-point hospital for pneumonia.
时间已经过去一个月多，武汉汉阳医院的管理层们仍会想起春节前后，几近崩溃的那些日子。
More than a month has passed, and managers at Wuhan Hanyang Hospital still remember the days around the Spring Festival, when they nearly collapsed.
1月20日，成为武汉市第一批定点发热门诊后，医院像要崩盘了一样，无论是发热病人，还是非发热病人，全都涌入这间本来就略显拥挤的门诊大厅，就像一锅粥一样。
On January 20th, after becoming the city's first fixed-point fever clinic, the hospital was on the verge of collapse, with both febrile and non-febrile patients flooding the already slightly congested out-patient hall like a pot of porridge.
前来排队输液的病人，因为没有位置，有的直接在自己的车子里面，挂个吊瓶就打起来了。
Queuing patients, because there is no place, some directly in their own car, hanging a bottle to fight.
新型冠状肺炎蔓延的势头，在当时，就像火焰吞噬一堆干草，谁也不知道火焰什么时候会从中央熄灭，怎么才能熄灭。
The spread of the new coronary pneumonia was like a fire devouring a pile of hay, and no one knew when and how the flame would go out of the centre.
它在人体内肆虐，整个免疫系统失灵，像是被围困的城市，城门打开，敌军拥入。
It rages through the human body, its entire immune system malfunctions, like a besieged city, its gates open and its enemies swarm in.
同时，它令整个武汉措手不及。
At the same time, it caught Wuhan unprepared.
与众多抵挡在疫情最前面的公立医院不同，汉阳医院是一家企业改制的非公医院，这决定了在它与疫情的奋战中，困难尤为突出。
Unlike many public hospitals, which are at the forefront of the epidemic, Hanyang Hospital is a non-public hospital, which makes it particularly difficult to fight the epidemic.
一方面是救治工作完全靠自身资源和社会捐赠，医院资金压力越来越大，一度需要通过银行贷款来解决资金不足的问题。
On the one hand, the treatment is entirely dependent on their own resources and social donations, hospital funds are under increasing pressure, once needed to solve the problem of insufficient funds through bank loans.
另一方面，国家公共卫生应急管理体系没有把社会办医纳入，汉阳医院急缺的呼吸科、ICU医护力量，要通过非公医疗协会四处求援，其间也是困难重重。
On the other hand, the national public health emergency management system did not include social medicine, Hanyang Hospital acute shortage of respiratory departments, ICU medical care force, through non-public medical associations to seek assistance in the meantime.
即便如此，每次开院长会议时，管理层闭口不谈经营问题。
Even so, each time the Presidency was held, management kept its mouth shut on operational issues.
一位医院管理层说，数次强调的就一句话，集中全院力量，打好这场战役。
One hospital administrator said that several times stressed just one sentence, the whole hospital forces to play a good battle.
疫情爆发整整一个月后，这家苦撑的改制医院终于被列为第五批定点收治医院，在物资调配与病人收治上纳入了区里的统一管理。
Exactly one month after the outbreak of the outbreak, the beleaguered hospital was finally designated as the fifth group of designated hospitals, integrated into the district's unified management of the distribution and treatment of patients.
△ 受访者供图疫情最严重时，医院倒下了34名医护2019年12月底，汉阳医院收治了一位高热的“肺炎”患者，接诊医生感觉到这个病毒性肺炎不同以往，进展很快，病情很重。
2007-9-24 16: 48 Hospital collapses 34 medical staffAt the end of December 2019, a hot pneumonia patient was admitted to Hanyang Hospital. The treating physician felt that this virus pneumonia was different from the previous one and that it was progressing rapidly and seriously.
当时并没有想到，这种怪病传染性极强。
It was not thought that this strange disease was extremely contagious.
直至1月21日，国家卫健委决定将新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎纳入法定传染病乙类管理，采取甲类传染病的预防、控制措施时，一些医院开始紧急防范，但病毒已经蔓延……之后的一周，是最忙碌、最紧张、最痛苦的时候。
Until January 21, the National Fitness and Health Commission decided that the new coronavirus infection pneumonia into the statutory infectious disease category B management, the adoption of measures to prevent and control Class A infectious diseases, some hospitals began emergency preparedness, but the virus has spread... the week after, is the busiest, most intense and most painful.
一位医院高层回忆，发热门诊和急诊科几乎通宵达旦，平均每天就诊和输液超过300人次，最高峰时达到700多人次，放射科CT工作量由日常每天100多次增加到400多次，被确诊为新型冠状肺炎的患者每天就有好几十个。
A senior hospital official recalled that the fever clinic and emergency department operated almost overnight, with more than 300 visits and transfusions per day on average, reaching a peak of more than 700, and the radiology CT workload increasing from more than 100 to more than 400 per day, with dozens of patients diagnosed with the new type of coronary pneumonia each day.
呼吸科收治了大量病人，原本规定床位只有40张，实际收治了70多个病人，整个病房全是加床。
The respiratory department admitted a large number of patients, originally only 40 beds, the actual admission of more than 70 patients, the entire ward is full of extra beds.
一进病房，通道和走廊两头都是人，咳嗽声、呼噜声、吵闹声相互交叠。
Once inside the ward, the passageway and hallway were full of people, coughing, snoring, and shouting overlapping each other.
病房实在住不下，确诊患者却有增无减。
Ward is unable to live, but confirmed patients have increased.
“我们把内分泌科的病房改造成一个病区，与武汉卓尔控股集团成立了汉阳应急医院，设置了250张床位，大年初二（1月26日）就被启用。
"We turned the endocrinology ward into a sick area and set up the Hanyang Emergency Hospital with 250 beds with Zhuoer Holding Group in Wuhan.
”上述高层回忆，当时整个武汉市陷入了一床难求的绝境。
The top brass recalled that Wuhan had fallen into a desperate situation.
汉阳医院是一家三级医院，因此汉口、武昌其他区的病人，都找各种关系试图往汉阳医院转。
Hanyang Hospital is a level III hospital, so Hankou, Wuchang other areas of patients, all looking for relationships to try to transfer to the Hanyang Hospital.
△ 转运病人的救护车（受访者供图）“能够有一张床，得到一些救治，这在当时，患者就已经非常感谢了。
Ambulance for transshipment of patients (interviewees supply picture) "The ability to have a bed and get some treatment was greatly appreciated by the patient at the time.
”一位汉阳医院的医生说，就好比战争片里演绎的一样。
A doctor at Hanyang Hospital said it was like a war movie.
原武汉市委书记马国强1月27日晚在防控工作新闻发布会上说，当时几天里发热门诊的日均就诊人数超过1.5万人，而往年同期仅3000人左右。
At a news conference on the night of January 27, Wuhan city Communist Party secretary Ma Guoqiang said the average number of daily visits to the fever clinic during the days exceeded 15,000, compared with about 3,000 during the same period in previous years.
发热门诊是各地医院在冬春季流感等传染病高发季节专门为出现发热、咳嗽等症状提供诊疗服务的医疗区域，相当于疫情的分流管。
Fever clinic is the medical area where the high incidence of epidemic diseases such as influenza in winter and spring is specially provided for the diagnosis and treatment of fever, cough and other symptoms.
但它受制于后端的定点收治医院医疗资源是否更得上。
But it is subject to the back end of the fixed-point hospital medical resources are better.
武汉市从1月20日后就开始扩充定点收治医院，即在武汉市在金银潭医院、肺科医院的基础上，分三批征用了24家综合医院，临时改造成收治发热病人的定点医院。
Since January 20, Wuhan has expanded the number of designated hospitals, that is, Wuhan on the basis of gold and silver pool hospital, lung hospital, in three batches requisitioned 24 general hospitals, temporarily converted into fever patients into designated hospitals.
第一批和第二批定点医院提供床位4000余张。
The first and second batch of designated hospitals provided more than 4,000 beds.
纵然如此，床位仍供不应求。
Even so, beds are in short supply.
定点医院在改造之中，火神山、雷神山、方舱尚未建立，患者处于焦灼的等待期。
Destination Hospital in the renovation, the god of fire, thunder Shenshan, square cabins have not yet been established, patients in a burning waiting period.
原有的医院压力极大，这股压力在一位当地医生看来是难以想象的，他甚至连发两句感叹，真的是难以想象的。
The pressure on the old hospital was unimaginable to a local doctor, and he could hardly imagine even uttering a few lamentations.
“有时候病人排队要排到百把号，在等床位。
"Sometimes patients line up to a hundred, waiting for their beds.
”焦灼感并不限于此。
"There was no end to anxiety.
对于汉阳医院来说，还面临着诊治难题，在早期没有出台国家指南之前，病情判断完全没有前车之鉴，这在该院一位呼吸科医生看来，病人后期恢复怎样，到底有没有存活希望？心里都是打鼓的。
For Hanyang Hospital, the diagnosis and treatment challenges, in the early absence of national guidelines, the diagnosis is completely absent from the case, in the hospital, a ventilator in the hospital, how the late recovery of patients, whether there is a chance of survival? Hearts are beating.
早期缺乏外援的情况下，汉阳医院不得已把医院外科、神经内科，甚至五官科耳鼻喉科，都组建成发热门诊。
Early lack of foreign aid, the Hanyang Hospital had to hospital surgery, neurology, and even ENT department, all into a fever clinic.
这样一支队伍也受到过质疑，是否不专业？对此，院方领导回复，“发热门诊有一个主要操作流程，在这方面经过一些培训，是可以应付的。
In response to a question about whether such a team was unprofessional, hospital leaders responded, "there is a major operating process in the fever clinic, which can be handled with some training.
”大年初一早上，迫于严峻现实压力，1000多名员工取消春节和所有休假，全部上岗，全院医护人员经过培训后参加呼吸内科两个病区和发热门诊轮班。
On the first morning of the Lunar New Year, under severe practical pressure, more than 1,000 employees canceled Spring Festival and all vacations.
全部医护，押在一线防疫上。
All medical care, in front of the epidemic prevention.
遗憾的是，一些医护倒下了，这成了汉阳医院一位副院长那段时间最大的心病。
Sadly, some medical staff collapsed, making it the biggest worry of a vice-dean at Hanyang Hospital.
在1月20日到1月24日，疫情爆发最为严重的时期，医院倒下了38名医护。
Between January 20 and January 24, at the height of the outbreak, the hospital collapsed with 38 doctors and nurses.
他也时常听到别的医院医护倒下的消息，有的院长走了，有的主任走了。
He also heard from time to time of the fall of other hospitals, and some of the deans had gone, others had gone.
那段时间，无形的心理压力时时刻刻揪住他，“一旦出现什么意外，责任很大。
At that time, invisible psychological pressure constantly seized him, "in the event of an accident, a great responsibility.
”院内感染令他更为困惑和痛苦，在市里面还没有出严格规范的时候，病人常到处乱跑，感染病人和非感染病人交叉在一起，医护、陪护也都交叉在一起。
Hospital infections have added to his confusion and pain, with patients running around in the absence of strict city rules, infected and non-infected patients crisscrossing one another and providing care and companionship.
最遗憾的事：早期仅有一台v60呼吸机2月2日，苦苦支撑的汉阳医院，迎来了一个好消息，它成为武汉市第五批新冠肺炎定点收治医院。
The most regrettable thing: There was only one v60 ventilator in the early days, February 2, the struggling Hanyang Hospital, usher in a good news, it became Wuhan City's fifth batch of fixed-point hospital for pneumonia.
该院一位副院长舒了一口气，“纳入了政府的统一管理，在物资调配、行政管理、病人收治上，就可以由区里面统一安排了。
One of the vice-presidents of the hospital breathed a sigh of relief. "It is part of the unified management of the government," he said.
”这种感觉，他形容就像是野战军，终于入编了一样。
This feeling, he described, was like that of a field army, finally integrated.
在疫情早期，武汉各大医院都陷入医护缺乏、物资告急的困境。
In the early stage of the epidemic, Wuhan major hospitals are in the lack of medical care, supplies are in dire straits.
汉阳医院也不例外，但作为一家改制后的非公医院，它所面临的考验更为严峻。
Hanyang Hospital is no exception, but as a reformed non-public hospital, it faces a more severe test.
“九省通衢”的武汉，是内陆最大的水陆空交通枢纽，其高铁网辐射大半个中国，这使得铁路、航运等国有企业在武汉布局集中。
Wuhan, a thoroughfare of nine provinces, is the largest inland water, land and air transportation hub, with high-speed rail networks emitting more than half of China, which has enabled state-owned enterprises such as railways and shipping to be concentrated in Wuhan.
在企业医院数量丰富的背景下，武汉市较早开始了企业医院改制。
In the background of the abundant number of enterprise hospitals Wuhan began to transform enterprise hospitals earlier.
汉阳医院就在其列。
Hanyang Hospital is one of them.
这家坐落在老城区的医院，建于1953年，前身为汉阳铁路中心医院，是一家国企职工医院，原隶属于中铁大桥局集团公司。
Located in the old city of the hospital, built in 1953, formerly known as the Hanyang Railway Central Hospital, is a state-owned enterprise staff hospital, originally affiliated to the China Railway Bridge Authority Group.
在2005年，医院进行了产权制度改革，引进湖北和润联合体作为控股投资方，遂变身为股份制非营利性医院，更名为“武汉市汉阳医院”。
In 2005, the hospital carried out property rights reform, introduced Hubei and Run Combination as controlling investors, and became a joint-stock non-profit hospital, renamed "Wuhan Hanyang Hospital."
被“剥离”后的汉阳医院，独立运行，自谋发展。
Hanyang hospital after "peeling", independent operation, self-development.
医院全体职工同时进行了身份置换。
The entire staff of the hospital underwent simultaneous identity replacement.
医院引入现代企业管理制度，实行董事会领导下的院长负责制，逐步被推向了市场化大潮中。
With the introduction of modern enterprise management system and the implementation of the director-in-charge system under the leadership of the board of directors, hospitals have been gradually pushed into the market tide.
该院一位领导在接受记者采访时谈到，“市场”一词不可怕。
"The market" is not a word to be feared, a leader of the hospital told reporters.
市场会将医院的命运交与病人；由病人选择“投票”，从而造就各有定位、合理分工、充分竞争的医疗新格局。
The market places the fate of the hospital on the patient; the patient chooses to "vote," thus creating a new pattern of health care that is well positioned, rationally divided, and competitive.
曾经破旧的病房，老化的设备，在改制之后全部翻新，如今汉阳医院新建了三座大楼，不再依靠大桥局拨付的经费勉强度日。
The dilapidated wards and aging equipment were completely renovated and now three new buildings have been built at Hanyang Hospital, no longer relying on funding from the Bridge Bureau to survive.
告别“大锅饭”体制，医院编制床位数从210张增加到1000余张，年门诊量从不足8万人增加到50余万人。
Farewell to the "big pot rice" system, hospital establishment from 210 to more than 1,000 beds, annual outpatient from less than 80,000 to more than 500,000 people.
这些都是15年间，汉阳医院全体职工自力更生的结果，来之不易。
These are 15 years, the Han Yang Hospital all staff self-reliance results, hard-won.
但囿于人才和患者流量，中国的非公医院在与公立医院的竞争中，长期处在劣势地位。
But due to talent and patient flow, China's non-public hospitals in the competition with public hospitals, the long-term disadvantage.
此次疫情中，非公医院自身的弱势与艰辛，展露无疑。
In this epidemic, the weakness and hardship of the non-public hospitals themselves, no doubt exposed.
一位民营医院管理层认为，与公立医院一样，非公医院一样面对疫情，一样对抗疫情，一样猝不及防，一样挺身而出，没有丝毫退缩。
One private hospital management believes that, like public hospitals, non-public hospitals, faced with the same epidemic, the same fight against the epidemic, the same unexpected, stand up to the same, do not shrink.
但相比公立医院，非公医院在疫情中的困难更多更大。
But non-public hospitals have more difficulties with the epidemic than public hospitals.
因为初期，没有国家渠道的物资保障和援汉医护人员的支援。
Because of the initial stage, there is no state channel material support and Han medical support.
“没有纳入定点医院之前，国家是不给拨款、物资的，必须是定点医院，才会有物资保障。
"Before they are included in the designated hospitals, the state will not grant funds or supplies, but must designate hospitals before material security can be provided.
”上述人士说，纳入定点之后，会按照危重病人抢救数、门诊病人数量，发放相应的物资。
These people said that after the inclusion of designated points, according to the number of critically ill patients, outpatient number, the corresponding distribution of materials.
“但在此之前，我们要么是自筹，通过校友会、关系好的企业捐赠，要么就自救，自己花钱买物资。
"But before that, we either raise our own money, donate through alumni associations, good companies, or save ourselves and buy our own supplies.
”汉阳医院也不例外。
Hanyang Hospital is no exception.
该院医生透露，在承担大量救治工作之后，医疗防护物资没有得到政府正规渠道下拨的保障，完全靠自身资源和社会捐赠支撑。
The hospital doctors revealed that after undertaking a large number of treatment, the medical protection materials have not been allocated under the regular government channels, relying solely on their own resources and social donations support.
他记得有一天，20个医生连一个口罩都没有，导致医生们都不能上岗。
One day, he remembers, 20 doctors didn't even have a mask, making it impossible for doctors to do their jobs.
收治的第一批病人，在外辗转多日，病情很重。
The first patients to be admitted to the hospital, tossing and turning outside for many days, very serious.
然而，那时的汉阳医院设备并不齐全，医院只有一台v60呼吸机，抢救重病患者需要用到呼吸机，大部分肺功能不好的病人，要靠高流量吸氧的呼吸机维系，医院都没有。
At that time, however, the Hanyang Hospital was not fully equipped. The hospital had only a v60 ventilator. Rescuers for seriously ill patients needed a ventilator. Most patients with poor lung function had to rely on ventilators with high flow oxygen intake.
这是汉阳医院呼吸科的一位医生最遗憾的事情。
This is the most regrettable thing for a doctor in the respiratory department of Hanyang Hospital.
“如果医护人员更多一点，就能救更多的病人，医疗设备更好一些，一些危重病人能抢救过来。
"If there were more paramedics, they would save more patients, medical equipment would be better and some critically ill people could be saved.
”△ 支援医疗队带来设备（受访者供图）“同样是奋战在抗疫一线，社会办医院都是通过各自厂家渠道采购，缺乏统一供应保障，各地区之间分配不均衡，实际上，应得到政府采购及物资保障平台支持。
"The support medical team brought equipment (interviewees provided by the medical team)" The same is true for fighting against SARS. Social hospitals are all procured through their own factory channels, lack uniform security of supply and are unevenly distributed among different regions.
”中国非公立协会常务副会长郝德明认为，在调拨分配医疗物资时，兼顾社会办医院的抗疫需求，国家有关部门要将公立医院和社会办医纳入一盘棋。
Hao Deming, executive vice-president of the China Non-Public Association, said the state should integrate public hospitals and social-run doctors into a single package when allocating medical supplies, taking into account the need of social-run hospitals to fight epidemic diseases.
对非公医护人员的补助，悬而不决现有医护力量到达极限时，汉阳医院不得已求援。
When subsidies for non-public medical personnel are suspended to the limit of the existing medical care capacity, Hanyang Hospital had to seek help.
从1月23日开始，汉阳医院董事长张芾四处求助。
From January 23 onwards, the chairman of Hanyang Hospital Zhang Fu sought help everywhere.
郝德明收到武汉非公协会紧急求援，才了解到，前线医生忙到一个一个快倒下，每天的休息时间只有三四个小时。
Hao Deming received Wuhan non-public association emergency assistance, only to learn that the front-line doctors are busy one by one, the daily rest time is only three or four hours.
经过多方动员，截至日前，已有150余名医护人员驰援汉阳医院。
Through multi-mobilization, as of today, more than 150 medical personnel rushed to the Hanyang Hospital.
但调动过程波折不断。
The mobility process, however, continued to fluctuate.
郝德明认为，国家在公共卫生应急管理体系，没有把社会办医的力量明确纳入到体系之内。
Hao Deming believes that the state in the public health emergency management system, did not explicitly integrate the power of social medicine into the system.
“我们调动人员，要经过当地卫健委的同意，当地不同意，人还出不来。
"When we move people, we have to get the consent of the local health committee, local disapproval, people can not get out.
我们现在已经沟通了800多个医务人员，涉及到62家医院，大概有三分之一的医院都会碰到要去当地要卫健委开证明的情况。
We have now communicated with more than 800 medical personnel, involving 62 hospitals, and about one third of the hospitals are in receipt of a certificate from a local health care provider.
”在武汉一家民营医院医生看来，支援的医护人员，其分配并不公平。
In the view of a doctor at a private hospital in Wuhan, the allocation of support staff was unfair.
疫情伊始，增援武汉的医护都是各地实力强劲的专家，多数来自公立医院。
At the beginning of the epidemic, the medical personnel who reinforced Wuhan were strong experts from all over the country, mostly from public hospitals.
但这些顶级的呼吸科、ICU专家，并没有支援自己所在的医院。
But these top breathing experts, ICU specialists, do not support their own hospitals.
作为此次疫情重灾区，武汉集结全国医护力量，急诊、重症学科更是重中之重。
As the hardest hit areas, Wuhan concentration of national medical care, emergency, severe discipline is even more important.
但在全国非公医疗的医护资源中，这方面是弱项。
But in the national non-public health care resources, this aspect is weak.
自负盈亏的生存压力下，民营医院目前普遍选择医美、牙科、妇科等轻资产的学科。
Under the pressure of self-financing, private hospitals generally choose medical, dental, gynecological and other light assets of the discipline.
突如其来的疫情面前，医疗人才的不相匹配很大程度上限制了大多数的社会办医驰援武汉的可能性。
In the face of the sudden epidemic, medical personnel do not match to a large extent limit the possibility of most social medical assistance Wuhan.
也可以说，非公立医院自身的不足，也在此次疫情中暴露无疑。
Can also say, the inadequacy of non-public hospitals themselves, but also exposed in this epidemic.
就在医院医护人员十分紧缺，几乎崩溃之际，医院向中国非公立医疗机构协会请求人员支援，郝德明会长协调，经各地卫健委批准同意，从全国组织了165名医护人员驰援汉阳医院，以解燃眉之急。
At a time when hospital medical personnel were in short supply and nearly collapsed, the hospital turned to the China Association of Non-Public Medical Institutions for staff support. Coordinated by President Hao Deming, and with the approval of local health committees, 165 medical personnel were mobilized from around the country to assist the Hanyang Hospital.
随着定点250张床位的开设，医院病区改造、设备药品和防护物品采购、人员加班补助费用等……一方面政府承诺的医疗费用全免还是需要医院先期垫付，另一方面急需扩大产能而进行各种投入，汉阳医院资金压力越来越大，其控股方和润集团一度需要银行贷款，来解决资金不足的问题。
With the opening of 250 beds, the renovation of hospital areas, procurement of equipment, medicines and protective equipment, overtime allowances for staff and so on... On the one hand, the government promised free medical expenses or the need to advance the hospital, on the other hand, the Hanyang Hospital is under increasing financial pressure.
但每次开院长会议时，管理层闭口不谈经营问题。
However, each time the Presidency was held, management kept its mouth shut on operational issues.
一位医院管理层说，数次强调的就一句话，集中全院力量，打好这场战役。
One hospital administrator said that several times stressed just one sentence, the whole hospital forces to play a good battle.
自己医护人员，一个不落下。
Self-medicine. no one's left behind.
救治更多的患者，应收尽收。
Treatment of more patients, receivable from the full.
他认为，在整个战疫中，自己真正是这样做的。
He believed that he had really done so throughout the war.
他透露，每年春节前后，是医院经营的黄金时期。
He revealed that the annual Spring Festival around the hospital is the golden period of operation.
疫情一来，医院经营基本停滞。
Hospital operations have largely ground to a halt with the outbreak.
“我们有1000多张床位，在疫情最高峰的时候，床位使用率不到正常的二分之一。
"We have more than 1,000 beds, less than half the normal capacity at the height of the epidemic.
这样，对我们的收入肯定有影响。
It certainly has an impact on our income.
另外，医护人员全部到一线去了以后，其他科室就瘫痪了。
In addition, all the medical staff went to the front line, the other departments were paralyzed.
尤其是封城之后，很多手术都没有开展。
After the closure of the city in particular, many operations were not performed.
”国家卫健委医政医管局副局长焦雅辉在国务院发布会上介绍，在薪酬待遇方面，出台了相关政策。
Jiao Yahui, deputy director of the National Health and Wellness Commission's Hospital Authority, introduced the relevant policies on pay and benefits at a State Council conference.
在湖北的一线医务人员，临时性工作补助标准提高一倍，薪酬待遇提高两倍，扩大卫生防疫津贴发放范围，确保覆盖到所有一线医务人员。
In Hubei front-line medical personnel, the temporary work allowance rate was doubled, the remuneration package was tripled, and the health and epidemic prevention allowance was extended to ensure coverage of all front-line medical personnel.
八点健闻了解到，湖北一线医务人员，来自公立医院，可享有每天300元的补助。
Eight JianWen learned that Hubei front-line medical personnel, from public hospitals, can enjoy a daily subsidy of 300 yuan.
非公的补助来自哪里，此前悬而未定。
Where the non-public subsidy comes from was left open.
最近经反复沟通，“区里面终于口头答应了。
Recently, after repeated communication, "the district inside finally agreed verbally.
”汉阳医院还算幸运。
Hanyang Hospital was lucky.
另一位民营医院的副院长说，“补贴方面，无法落实。
Another civilian hospital's vice-president said: "The subsidy aspect, unable to implement.
”目前仍是要靠企业自身的经营、外面捐赠，才能解决给职工的补贴和工资。
It still depends on the companies' own operations and outside donations to be able to pay subsidies and wages to their employees.
国家明确了要把一线工资提高两倍以上，但非公医院尚无此待遇。
The State has made it clear that it will more than triple the first-line wage, but non-public hospitals have yet to receive it.
针对补贴的问题，武汉当地一家定点收治的民营医院高层，在前不久，与所在区领导沟通过。
Regarding the subsidy problem, Wuhan a local designated private hospital, in the recent past, with the local leadership of the communication.
但得到反馈却是，在政府财政预算这一块，并没有非公这部分。
But the feedback is that there is no non-public sector in the government's budget.
在他看来，有时候，非公医院就像一个旁系，出身不好，先天不足，和公立医院还是有区别的。
Sometimes, in his view, a non-public hospital was like a byproduct of bad birth, innate, and public hospitals.
在汉阳医院一位副院长看来，汉阳医院是非营利性医院，与公立医院所承担的工作职能差不多，在疫情之中，尚且如此。
In the eyes of a vice-dean of Hanyang Hospital, Hanyang Hospital is a non-profit hospital, similar to the job functions performed by public hospitals, even in the midst of the epidemic.
而一些民营的营利性医院更为艰难。
Some private for-profit hospitals are even more difficult.
2月25日晚，汉阳医院开始“转场”，腾空新冠肺炎患者，恢复日常门诊。
February 25 night, the Hanyang Hospital began to "change the scene," empty the patients with pneumonia, resume routine outpatient.
据了解，武汉亚洲心脏病医院从3月2日开始恢复门诊。
It is understood that Wuhan Asian Heart Hospital from March 2 to resume outpatient clinics.
在武汉之外，受疫情影响，许多民营医院和诊所停工。
Outside Wuhan, many private hospitals and clinics have been shut down by the epidemic.
没有了营业收入，但成本却没有减少：店铺租金、员工工资、设备折损……在发稿之前，一位上海民营医院管理层说，外科诊所还不能完全恢复正常的工作。
No operating income, but no cost reduction: store rental, staff salaries, equipment depreciation... Before the release of the article, a Shanghai private hospital management said the surgery clinic was not fully back to normal.
在他看来，疫情对整个医疗服务市场的冲击很大，同时也带来重新洗牌的机会。
In his view, the epidemic has had a huge impact on the health-care market as a whole and has also opened up opportunities for reshuffling.
经此一疫，民营医院什么时候能真正恢复？谭卓曌|撰稿微信号：tzz19930706季敏华|责编微信号：janejiminhua我们尊重原创版权，未经允许请勿转载。
When will the private hospital really recover from the epidemic? Writing microsignals: Tzzz 19930706 & amp; Minhua & # 124; Blame microsignals: janejiminhua. We respect original copyright and do not reproduce it without permission.
授权转载郑琪 微信号:1281949389商务合作上海：leslee 13916263824北京：Jessie 13911125922线索爆料、意见反馈，加入核心读者社群请扫码联系健闻君让朋友们看到你也在看↓↓↓。
Authorized reprint of Zheng Qi microsignal: 1281949389 Commercial Cooperation Shanghai: Leslee 13916263824 Beijing: Jessie 13911125922 Tells burst of material, feedback, join the core reader community, please sweep the code to let your friends see you, too.
健闻谭卓曌。
My name is Tam.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
贷款也要抗疫，武汉这家民营医院苦撑一月终迎“公立待遇”。
Loans also have to fight against the disease, Wuhan this private hospital in January to finally welcome the "public treatment."
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "八点健闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at eight.
var msg_title = "贷款也要抗疫，武汉这家民营医院苦撑一月终迎“公立待遇”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "有一天，20个医生一个口罩也没有。
var msg _ desc = & quot; one day, 20 doctors didn't have a single mask.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="八点健闻";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; eight.
