武汉一新冠肺炎患者出院后死亡/* declared */。
Wuhan patients with new crown pneumonia died after discharge from hospital / * declared * /.
武汉一新冠肺炎患者出院后死亡<br>。
Wuhan New Crown Pneumonia (CG) patient who died or died at & lt; br & gt;
| title       = 武汉一新冠肺炎患者出院后死亡。
& # 114; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & & # 45; & & # 45; & & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
武汉一新冠肺炎患者出院后死亡。
Wuhan patients with new crown pneumonia died after discharge from hospital.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻记者 温潇潇 廖艳 汤琪李亮的死亡证明 本文图均为 家属供图3月4日，武汉硚口区的梅女士向澎湃新闻（www.thepaper.cn）反映称，自己的丈夫李亮，今年36岁，被确诊为新冠肺炎患者，经治疗，2月26日从方舱医院出院，到指定的酒店康复点隔离，3月2日突然在康复点发病，送医后不治。
Chinese journalist Wen Xiaoxiao Liang's death certificate shows Li Liang as a family member. Picture shows her husband Li Liang, 36 years old, diagnosed with New Crown Pneumonia (www.thepaper.cn).
梅女士提供的由武汉市卫健委开具的居民死亡医学证明（推断）书显示，李亮直接死亡原因为新冠肺炎，引起死亡的疾病或情况为呼吸道阻塞猝死、呼吸循环衰竭。
The medical certificate of death (inference) issued by the Wuhan Health Committee shows that Li Liang's direct death was caused by Newly Coronary Pneumonia, death-causing illness or condition is sudden respiratory obstruction death, respiratory circulation failure.
汉阳方舱医院2月26日开具的出院证明显示，李亮2月12日开始在汉阳方舱医院住院，经过规范治疗、专家组会诊确认，符合新冠肺炎患者出院标准，准予出院。
The discharge certificate issued by Hanyang Fang Hospital on February 26 showed that Li Liang had been hospitalized in the Hanyang Fangzhou Hospital on February 12.
出院证明提醒：出院后请在社区单人单间隔离14天，如有不适，请立即联系社区负责人，必要时到指定医院就医。
Reminder: Please stay in solitary confinement in the community for 14 days after discharge. If you feel unwell, please contact the head of the community immediately and visit the designated hospital if necessary.
梅女士称，李亮出院后进行隔离观察的康复点在武汉硚口区汉西三路维也纳酒店。
Ms. May said Li left the hospital to observe the isolation of the rehabilitation site in Wuhan Zhangkou District Hanxi Third Road Vienna Hotel.
她说，入住一两天后，丈夫说自己嘴巴发干，胃有点胀。
After a day or two, she said, her husband said his mouth was dry and his stomach was bulging.
3月2日上午，她再次与丈夫进行视频聊天，丈夫说他不想吃东西，躺在床上没有力气，站都站不稳，并很快挂了电话。
On the morning of 2 March, she again had a video chat with her husband, who said that he did not want to eat, that he was lying in bed without energy and that he could not stand on his feet, and that he hung up the phone quickly.
梅女士非常担心，再打丈夫电话就打不通了。
Ms. May was so worried that she couldn't get through to her husband again.
情急之下，她拨通隔离酒店前台电话，前台的工作人员告诉她不要担心。
In case of emergency, she dialed the front desk, who told her not to worry.
据梅女士还称，3月2日上午10点多，李先生又接了她的视频电话，此时医生正好来查房，医生告诉她，李先生可能是精神压力大。
According to Ms. May, Mr. Li answered her video call at more than 10 a.m. on 2 March, when the doctor happened to come to check the room and told her that Mr. Li might be stressed.
梅女士说，后来120把丈夫送去了最近的医院，丈夫当天下午5点8分过世 。
Ms. May stated that her husband was later taken to the nearest hospital and died at 5.08 p.m. the same day.
上述酒店康复点一马姓工作人员告诉澎湃新闻，李亮于2月26日下午4点37分入住康复点，同时从汉阳国博方舱出院后入住该康复点的还有十余人。
Li Liang was admitted to the rehabilitation center at 4: 37 pm on February 26, and more than a dozen people were admitted to the rehabilitation center after being discharged from the Hanyang Guobao Square.
目前，其余人员尚未出现类似突发情况。
At present, there are no similar contingencies for the remaining personnel.
李亮的出院证明李亮的出院小结据梅女士提供的多份书面材料显示，其丈夫李亮的2月4日CT报告单显示为“双肺感染，考虑病毒性肺炎”；经过治疗后，2月23日CT报告单显示，“双肺见散在多发密度增高影，大部分呈磨玻璃密度，部分呈网格样改变，大部分位于胸膜下，双肺下叶见小结节灶，最大径0.4CM，建议随诊复查”；2月25日的出院小结显示，经对症支持治疗，患者李亮体温正常3天以上，呼吸道症状明显好转，连续两次核算检查阴性，无吸氧指末氧饱和度大于95%，病程超过14天，经专家组评估，准予出院。
According to numerous written materials provided by Ms. May, her husband Li Liang's CT report of February 4 shows that her husband's CT report of February 4 shows that her husband's CT report of February 4 shows that her husband's CT report of February 4 shows that her husband's CT report of Feb.
据央广网报道，2月22日，武汉市发布关于对新冠肺炎治愈出院患者实施康复隔离的通告，要求出院患者应到指定场所统一实施为期14天的免费康复隔离和医学观察。
On Feb. 22, Wuhan issued a notice on convalescent isolation for patients discharged from hospital with Xinguan Pneumonia, requiring patients discharged from hospitals to uniformly implement 14 days of free-of-charge isolation and medical observation, CCBA reported.
观察期满，身体状况符合条件的解除隔离。
At the end of the observation period, the eligible condition was released.
3月4日，国家卫生健康委员会发布了最新版本的《新型冠状病毒肺炎诊疗方案（试行第七版）》。
On March 4, the National Health Council released the latest version of the "New Coronavirus Pneumonia Diagnosis and Treatment Programme (Trial Version 7)."
针对少数新冠肺炎出院患者出现核酸检测复检阳性的问题，新版的新型冠状病毒肺炎诊疗方案调整了出院后注意事项，将原来诊疗方案中出院患者“应继续进行14天自我健康状况监测”改为“应继续进行14天的隔离管理和健康状况监测”。
The new version of the coronavirus pneumonia diagnosis and treatment plan adjusted the post-discharge notice, replacing the 14-day self-health surveillance with the 14-day isolation management and health surveillance.
患者出院后复阳现象此前受到关注。
The phenomenon of Fuyang after discharge from hospital has been concerned.
2月28日下午，在国务院联防联控机制新闻发布会上，国家卫健委医政医管局监察专员郭燕红介绍，部分省份报告治愈出院患者出现了复检核酸检测呈阳性的情况，通过监测发现，这部分患者没有再发生传染别人的现象，另外有一部分患者再检测新冠病毒核酸时又转为阴性。
On the afternoon of February 28, at a press conference of the Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism of the State Council, Guo Yanhong, an inspector of the State Council's Hospital Authority, said that some provinces reported that they had cured patients discharged from hospitals who tested positive for nucleic acid.
郭燕红表示，新冠肺炎病毒是一个新病毒，它的致病机理、疾病的全貌和病程的特点还需要进一步加深认识。
Guo said the new crown pneumonia virus is a new virus, its pathogenic mechanism, the full extent of the disease and the characteristics of the course need to be further understood.
所以我们一方面要进一步加强对出院患者的管理，要求进行14天的医学观察，同时组织专家对这种情况进行进一步研究，对疾病的发生、发展、转归的全程进一步加深认识。
Therefore, on the one hand, we need to further strengthen the management of patients discharged from the hospital, request 14 days of medical observation, and organize experts to further study the situation, further understanding of the occurrence, development, and outcome of the disease.
对于这一问题，2月27日，钟南山院士在广州市举办的疫情防控专场新闻通气会上也表示，一般来说，病毒的感染规律都一样，只要身体里出现了IgG抗体，且（数量）增高了很多，病人就不会再次感染，不是说一发现有病毒残余，就认为患者再度感染。
On February 27, Zhong Nan Shan academician also told a news briefing on the prevention and control of the disease in Guangzhou that the virus generally follows the same pattern. As long as there is an IgG antibody in the body and the number increases, the patient will not reinfect.
钟南山分析，“复阳”病人有多种因素，核酸检测是最近才发展起来的，试剂本身有影响、检测方法也有影响，鼻咽的采样方法对结果影响较大。
Zhong Nan Shan analysis, "Fuyang" patients have a variety of factors, nucleic acid testing is a recent development, reagents themselves have an impact, detection methods also have an impact, nasopharyngeal sampling methods have a greater impact on the results.
至于肠道、粪便中所含的残余，是否会传染给别人，还有待进一步的观察。
As for the intestinal tract, feces contained in the residue, whether it will infect others, it remains to be further observed.
本期编辑 周玉华推荐阅读    。
This issue editor Zhou Yuhua recommends reading.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉一新冠肺炎患者出院后死亡。
Wuhan patients with new crown pneumonia died after discharge from hospital.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
