在人间丨基层干部的抗疫日记：从封路、隔离到复工。
Diary of resistance to disease in the world, from road sealing to isolation to return to work.
在人间。
In the world.
在人间living                      。
Living on earth.
在人间living。
Living on earth.
用冷静的叙述抵抗冰冷 | 凤凰网在人间工作室出品。
Resist cold & # # 124; & # 45; Order of the Phoenix with a sober narrative.
凤凰新闻客户端 凤凰网在人间工作室出品打开凤凰新闻客户端，搜索「在人间」并关注电影《肖申克的救赎》有句台词：“不要忘了，这个世界穿透一切高墙的东西，他就在我们内心深处，那就是希望”。
Phoenix News client-side Phoenix Internet in the human studio to open Phoenix news clients, search "in the world" and focus on the film "Redemption of Shushchenko" line: "Don't forget, the world through all the wall, he is in our hearts, that is hope."
枞阳县，地处安徽省中南部，长江在小县城的南边缓缓流过。
Fir Yangxian, located in south-central Anhui province, the Yangtze River in the small county slowly flow.
我在这座总人口81万、距离武汉380公里的小县城成长、生活，现在是本地的一名基层工作人员，同时也是一位摄影爱好者。
Growing up and living in a small county of 810,000 people 380 kilometers from Wuhan, I am a local grass-roots worker and a photographer.
庚子年春节，大年三十，枞阳县首次出现两例疑似病患，次日确诊。
Gengzi Spring Festival, about 30, the first two cases of suspected patients in Yangyang County, the next day confirmed.
武汉的新冠肺炎疫情由远及近，阴霾天，淅淅沥沥的小雨携裹着一丝紧张和恐惧，静静地在江北的这座小城蔓延开来。
Wuhan's new crown pneumonia epidemic from far and near, cloudy days, the drizzling rain with a trace of tension and fear, quietly spread in the northern part of the city.
在这等候春天的日子里，我用镜头记录被疫情笼罩的小城。
Waiting here for the spring, I use the camera to record the epidemic shrouded in the small city.
■ 1月29日，安徽省枞阳县白柳镇，桂元村老党员杨胜年正在赶写“疫情防控劝返点”宣传牌。
:: On 29 January, Yang Shengnian, an old member of Guiyuan village, Bailiuzhen, Fir County, Anhui Province, was writing a poster on "Prevention and Control of Outbreak."
宣传牌写到，“各位：大家新年好！今年情况特殊，外地亲友不要入组，本组民众也不要外出串门！敬请大家谅解！”■ 1月28日，安徽省枞阳县枞阳镇胜利社区，队书记江凌正带领社区小分队走街串巷、宣传疫情防控知识。
The poster said, "Ladies and gentlemen, Happy New Year! This year's special situation, family and friends do not join the group, we do not go out to visit! Please understand!"
■ 1月26日，安徽省枞阳县，村医何宗涛正在为从湖北返乡过年的陆某测量体温。
▪ On 26 January, Lu Mou, a village doctor in Fir Yangxian county, Anhui Province, was taking temperature measurements for Lu returning from Hubei Province for the New Year.
陆某1月13日从武汉乘车回家，尚未出现发烧发热体征，按照防控要求，村医何宗涛每天到她家中进行体温检测。
Lu January 13 from Wuhan bus home, has not appeared fever signs, in accordance with the requirements of prevention and control, village doctor He Zongtao daily to her home for a temperature test.
在陆某家中，客厅的麻将桌上散落的麻将，一家人居家隔离时用这来打发时间。
In Lu's home, the living room mahjong table scattered on the Mahjong, the family home isolation used to pass the time.
■ 1月26日，安徽省枞阳县高速公路出入口，医务防疫人员对所有进入县域的人员进行体温检查。
▪ On 26 January, at the entrance and exit of the Fir County Expressway in Anhui Province, medical and epidemic prevention personnel carried out temperature checks on all personnel entering the county.
■ 1月26日，安徽省枞阳东高速公路收费站，工作人员佩戴口罩坚守岗位。
:: 26 January, Anhui Province, Fir Yang East Expressway toll station, staff wearing masks at their posts.
■ 1月29日，安徽省枞阳县小缸窑县界出入口，两名医护防疫人员在县域边界测量外来人员体温。
:: On 29 January, at the entrance and exit of Xiaogang Kiln County, Anhui Province, two medical and epidemic prevention workers measured the body temperature of outsiders at the county boundary.
■ 1月26日，安徽省枞阳县，群众在药店排队购买口罩、酒精等个人防护用品。
▪ On 26 January, in Fir Yangxian county, Anhui Province, people lined up at pharmacies to buy personal protective equipment such as masks and alcohol.
其实，我在拍摄中，心中还是会有一些担心，在微信群看到药房口罩到货的信息，我再次去往药房购买口罩和消毒药水，营业员看了一眼长长的队伍，告诉我，口罩限购每人可以购买十个，到我应该没有了，口罩已然成为了最热销的年货。
In fact, I still have some concerns in my heart, in the micro-faith groups to see information on the arrival of respirators, I went to the pharmacy again to buy masks and disinfectant, the shop staff looked at a long line, told me that the mask purchase can buy 10, I should no longer, has become the most hot sales of the New Year.
■ 1月30日，安徽省枞阳县发热病人留观点，县医疗救治预备队的护士宣誓请战。
:: 30 January, Anhui Province Fir Yangxian febrile patients to retain their views, county medical treatment reserve nurses sworn to war.
1月26日晚间，县委县政府紧急征用县社会儿童福利院，作为枞阳县备用医疗机构。
On the night of January 26, county and county governments urgently requisitioned county social welfare homes for children as a reserve medical institution in Fir County.
100名工人日夜施工，仅用3天时间将福利院改造成了可容纳48张床位的发热病人留观点。
One hundred workers worked day and night, transforming the welfare home into a 48-bed hot patient in just three days.
枞阳版“小汤山医院”于1月31日正式启用，来自全县的59名医生和92名护士进驻留观点。
The Fir-Yang version of Xiaotangshan Hospital opened on January 31, bringing in 59 doctors and 92 nurses from across the county.
■ 1月30日，安徽省枞阳县医院放射影像科，主治医生陈鑫为发热病人进行胸部 CT检查。
:: On 30 January, Chen Xin, the attending physician of the radiography department of Fir County Hospital in Anhui Province, conducted a chest CT examination of febrile patients.
■ 2月1日，安徽省枞阳县枞阳镇。
Fir Yang Town, Fir County, Anhui Province, 1 February.
山水云间小区开始实行封闭管理，所有小区只保留一个出口，每个出入口至少安排2名劝导员。
The small area between mountain and water clouds began to implement closed management, all small areas to retain only one exit, at least two counselors at each entrance.
■ 2月2日，安徽省枞阳县雨坛镇。
:: Yutan Town, Fir County, Anhui Province, 2 February.
高峰村劝导员曹安明在整理路障。
Peak Village counselor Cao An-ming is fixing up roadblocks.
■ 2月4日，安徽省枞阳东高速公路出入口。
:: 4 February, entrance to the Fir Yang East Expressway, Anhui Province.
藕山镇卫生院值守医生胡政对外来人员测量体温。
lotus lotus town health center duty doctor Hu Zheng to take temperature of the outsiders.
■ 2月4日，安徽省枞阳县小缸窑，2名医护防疫人员换班后坐在卡点等车返家时小憩。
▪ On 4 February, two medical and preventive health workers took a rest at the checkpoint when they returned home from a small cylinder kiln in Fir Yangxian County, Anhui Province.
■ 2月19日，枞阳县枞阳镇，夜间值守的交通干警。
February 19th, Fir Yangxian Town, night duty traffic police.
值班交警需对进城车辆登记基本信息、记录体温，并询问旅行和接触史。
Traffic police on duty are required to register basic information, record body temperature and inquire about travel and contact history for vehicles entering the city.
交警、运管人员每天4人分2班，每班12小时。
Traffic police, operators in two shifts of 12 hours a day.
■ 2月4日，安徽省雨坛镇先锋村。
:: 4 February, Yuantan Town Pioneer Village, Anhui Province.
村干部荣辉胜在夜班卡点值守，同时电话再次摸排外出回乡人员信息。
Village cadres Rong Huisheng night card point guard, while the phone again feel out of town personnel information.
■ 2月3日，白柳镇某户门前立了一个小牌子：该户是湖北（武汉）返乡人员，现是居家医学观察对象，请勿相互走动，谢谢配合！■ 2月3日，安徽省枞阳县白柳镇。
▪ On 3 February, a small sign was set up in front of a house in Bailiuzhen. The family is returning from Hubei (Wuhan) and is now the object of medical observation at home.
28岁的祖某在铜陵市人民医院经过一段时间治疗，两次核酸检测为阴性，符合出院标准，成为枞阳县首位治愈出院的新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎患者。
Zumou, 28, was treated at Tongling People's Hospital and tested negative for two nucleic acid tests. He met the discharge criteria and became the first person in Fir County to be cured of a new coronavirus infection.
当祖某被急救中心的车子送回村口时，村民们都不敢接近她。
When Zumou was returned to the village by the ambulance of the emergency center, the villagers dare not approach her.
祖某似乎也没有痊愈后的喜悦，家人在为她准备隔离房间时，她独自站在院子里哭泣，显得孤独而无助。
Zou Mou also does not seem to have recovered after the joy of her family in preparation for her isolation room, she stood alone in the yard crying, looked lonely and helpless.
就在这时，不远处的二楼传来了一声呼喊：“我想你了！” 这是祖某的小学同学。
Just then, not far away from the second floor came a cry: "I miss you!" This is Zu Mou's primary school classmates.
祖某破涕而笑，回了一句：“我也想你了！”这是那天的整个拍摄中，我印象最深的一件事。
Zou Mou broke and smiled back: "I miss you too!" This is the day of the whole shooting, I remember the most thing.
我觉得祖某身上有一种孤独，可能很多患者包括已治愈的患者都有的孤独，不但需要面对病毒的威胁，还要面对感染家人、朋友的担忧和自责。
I think there is a kind of loneliness in Zumou, many patients, including those who have been cured, have to face not only the threat of the virus, but also infected family, friends and self-reproach.
■ 2月3日，安徽省枞阳县白柳镇，2名劝返人员在卡点值班。
▪ On 3 February, in Bailiuzhen, Fir Yangxian County, Anhui Province, two exhorters were on duty at the checkpoint.
■ 2月4日，安徽省枞阳县枞阳镇，一名戴着口罩老人坐在湖边。
:: On 4 February, an old man wearing a mask sat by the lake in Fir Yang Town, Fir County, Anhui Province.
■村里广播正在播放老许的抗疫广播。
▪ Lao Xu's anti-epidemic broadcast is being broadcast on the village radio.
老许，全名许光昶，是电视台的老播音员了，他在家录好音频，许多村里下载后在村里播放。
Lao Xu, full name Xu Guangchang, is an old broadcaster on TV. He recorded audio at home and many villages downloaded it and played it in the village.
（向下滑动文字查看广播内容）喂......喂，各家各户都听着了啊，我是老许哟。
Hey, everybody listen up, I'm Lao Xu. (Sliding text down) Hey, hey, everybody listen up.
现在大家在家里时间待长了，可能都有点不同程度的在家忧郁症的症状了，就像妇女产后忧郁症一样。
Now people stay at home longer, and may have some degree of symptoms of depression at home, just as women suffer from post-partum depression.
现在的问题啊，是要多做家务事情，少说话。
Now the problem is to do more housework and speak less.
说的话喷出来的可能都是火，不要闹一个家庭矛盾出来啊，有点麻烦。
Said the words are likely to be the fire, do not make a family out of contradictions ah, a bit troublesome.
实在是有点家庭矛盾呢，也没有关系，现在没有事把过去的老照片翻出来看看，回味一下，找一找过去恩爱的感觉，回忆一下对子女培养的过程、辛劳。
Is really a little family contradictions, it does not matter, there is nothing to look back on the old photos of the past, look back, find the feeling of past love, recall the process of child-rearing, hard work.
人生难得有空，回头看看也不错嘞。
Life rarely free, looking back at it is also good.
另外呢，借这个机会呀，把家里卫生彻底打扫一下子，消消毒、通通风，把家具换换位置，找一点新鲜感。
In addition, take the opportunity to clean the house thoroughly, disinfect, ventilation, change the location of the furniture, find a bit of freshness.
诶，这里我要强调一点啊，喜欢藏私房钱的老公要注意了，在打扫卫生之前，一定要收好你的私房钱，别一下子床兜里（床底下）冒出一捆钱出来子，那就难为人了，又冒出一个矛盾出来子，又不和谐了。
Aye, here I would like to emphasize a point ah, like to hide money husband to pay attention, before cleaning, you must keep your personal money, do not suddenly out of bed pocket (under the bed) out of a bundle of money, that difficult to deal with, another out of a contradiction and discordant.
男人藏私房钱，也不是什么大问题，主要是老婆管得严子，主动地承认错误嘛。
Men hide money, is not a big problem, mainly his wife strict son, the initiative to admit their mistakes.
说不定老婆呢会握住你的手说：“哎呀，感谢你老公啊，还有私房钱呢？这下子有钱买菜了，哎呀，谢谢你谢谢你哟。
Maybe his wife will take your hand and say, "Oh, thank you so much for your husband, and the money for the house," Oh, thank you very much.
”哎呀，老公说：“落个说（谁说）男人藏私房钱有啥不好呢，那是男人站得高看得远，这叫什么呢？这叫人无远虑，必有近忧。
"Oh," said the man, "what's the harm in saying that a man can't hide his money? That's why a man stands tall and looks far away.
”好了，开个玩笑啊，怕你们闷坏喽。
"Well, I'm just kidding. I'm afraid you're sulking.
请大家还要坚持一段时间，不要出门哈。
Please keep going for a while. Don't go out.
好了好了，洗洗困了啊，不能再讲了。
All right, wash and feel sleepy. I can't talk anymore.
喂......喂喂喂，各家各户都听着了啊，我是老许。
Hello... Hello, everyone's listening. I'm Lao Xu.
这几天呢，大家待在家里很郁闷、焦虑、心情暴躁，我们都很理解。
These days, we all stay at home very depressed, anxious, irritable, we all understand.
在你们玩手机的时候，在你们看电视的时候，在你们吃饭喝酒的时候，要想一想在防疫一线工作的医务工作者、各级干部、警察等等。
While you play on your cell phones, while you watch TV, while you eat and drink, think about the medical workers, cadres at all levels, the police, etc.
他们也是人叻，他们也有父母、妻子、儿女。
They are also human beings. They also have parents, wives and children.
他们冒着被感染的风险坚持工作，为了什么呢？想想他们吧。
Why should they stick to their jobs at the risk of getting infected? Think about them.
再过十天、二十天，我们的防控形势一定会好转起来。
In ten or twenty days, our prevention and control situation will certainly improve.
坚持！再坚持！一定会取得胜利的！谢谢大家的配合。
Persist! Persist again! Be sure to win! Thank you for your cooperation.
你们不出门，就是为社会做贡献。
When you do not go out, you contribute to society.
■ 1月29日，长江枞阳段。
:: 29 January, Fir Yang section of the Changjiang River.
一群冬泳爱好者在横渡长江。
A group of winter swimmers are crossing the Changjiang River.
■ 1月29日，铁铜乡和平渡口。
▪ On 29 January, the Iron Copper Township Peace Ferry.
一名母亲整理孩子的口罩。
A mother tidies her child's mask.
■ 2月12日，安徽省雨坛镇先锋村。
:: 12 February, Yuantan Town Pioneer Village, Anhui Province.
被封闭的村道。
A closed village road.
村里确诊两例后，全村只留一个出口。
Two cases were diagnosed in the village, leaving only one exit in the village.
■ 2月12日，安徽省雨坛镇先锋村。
:: 12 February, Yuantan Town Pioneer Village, Anhui Province.
王兰英坐在自己院子里。
Wang Lanying sat in his yard.
■ 2月14日，铁铜乡新丰村，治愈出院后隔离在家的新型肺炎患者严某夫妇。
▪ On 14 February, Xinfeng village, Tongxiang, cured a couple of new pneumonia patients who had been isolated at home after discharge.
在铁铜乡全乡有129个湖北返乡人员，新丰村占了52个，而且全乡2例确诊病例都在新丰村，村里的防疫压力很大。
In Tongxiang township, there are 129 Hubei returnees, Xinfeng village 52, and the whole township 2 confirmed cases are in Xinfeng village, the village vaccination pressure is very high.
村委会副主任何亮带我们去疫点的时候，我们发现新丰村不像其他地方，整个村内，家家大门紧闭，连一只鸡、一条狗都没有看见。
When the vice-chairman of the village committee brought us to the spot, we found that, unlike other places, Xinfeng village had closed its doors so tightly that not even a chicken or a dog could be seen.
在确诊病例严某家，何亮喊了几声，台阶上的大门打开了，严某夫妇戴着口罩站在门前，还没等我们说话，就招呼我们不要离得太近，说他们刚出院，还要在家隔离一段日子。
He Liang yelled a few times at the house where the patient was diagnosed, the front door of the steps was opened and the couple stood in front of the door wearing a mask. Before we could speak, we were asked not to be too close, to say that they had just been discharged from the hospital and had to remain in isolation for some time.
严某夫妇常年在武汉打工，一个做木工，一个做保洁员，年前才回家。
Yan couple work in Wuhan all year round, as a carpenter, a cleaner, only to return home years ago.
严某先发病，丈夫随后几日就诊，这在当时的铁铜乡引起了不小的轰动，原先大家以为新冠肺炎只是电视里的病，没想到一下子就近在咫尺了。
Yan Mou first onset of illness, the husband a few days later, which caused a great sensation in the then iron Copper Township, originally thought that the new crown pneumonia is only a television disease, did not expect to be very close at once.
也就是那时起，不用村里的广播再呼喊，全村人都自觉地戴上了口罩，也不外出串门了。
That is, without the village radio shouting, the whole village consciously put on masks, do not go out to visit the door.
因为病情发现较早，所以在入院一个多星期后严某夫妇就相继治愈出院。
Due to the early discovery of the disease, in more than a week after admission a strict couple were cured.
“每天医护人员都给我们测体温、取样化验，心里很害怕，不知道能不能治得好，直到有一天，医生说三次检测结果都是阴性的，可以出院了，跟做梦一样，很想感谢他们，但是当时大脑一片空白，都不知道该说些什么才好。
"Every day the paramedics took our temperature and took the samples. They were scared and didn't know if it would work out until one day the doctors said the tests were negative enough to be released from the hospital.
”严某说，因为从住院那天起，医生们就穿着防护服，一直到出院，也不知道那些照顾自己的人长什么样，就算以后回去，也不知道该谢谢谁。
Yan said doctors wore protective clothing from the day they were hospitalized until they were discharged from hospital, and did not know what their caregivers looked like, and even if they returned later, they did not know who to thank.
■ 2月12日，安徽省枞阳县雨坛镇。
:: 12 February, Yutan Township, Fir County, Anhui Province.
在武汉从事花卉养殖工作的张伦进夫妇在自家院子里。
Mr. and Mrs. Zhang Lun-jin, who are engaged in flower breeding in Wuhan, are in their yard.
夫妇俩腊月十八从武汉回村过年，“明年不去武汉了，准备隔离期结束后，去南京打工了。
The husband and wife from Wuhan back to the village for the New Year, "next year not Wuhan, ready to isolate the end of the period, to work in Nanjing.
”■ 2月12日，安徽省枞阳县雨坛镇。
:: Yutan Township, Fir County, Anhui Province, on 12 February.
一直在家务工齐克文在封村后，村里交给他一个任务，就是每天给村里消毒。
After Zikwen had been working at home in the village, the village gave him a task to disinfect the village every day.
■ 2月12日，安徽省枞阳县雨坛镇。
:: 12 February, Yutan Township, Fir County, Anhui Province.
在上海从事装潢业务的张启宝一家在自家院子里透气，由于本村确诊一例新冠肺炎患者，全家在家隔离至今。
Zhang Qibao family in Shanghai engaged in upholstery business breathed in their yard, because the village confirmed a case of New Crown Pneumonia, the family has been isolated so far.
■ 2月14日，铁铜乡和平渡口。
▪ On 14 February, the Iron Copper Township Peace Ferry.
孙晴岚和同事。
Sun Qing Lan and his colleagues.
孙晴岚是乡政府的一名会计，此次抗疫，铁铜乡全部公职人员都参与防疫工作，孙晴岚和同事张斯文、刘二青、杨当付被分配到渡运管理组，从正月初三起，他们每天从早到晚守在渡口边，检查登记所有外出采购生活物资和药品的人员，劝返其他想出洲的居民。
Sun Qing Lan, an accountant of the township government, was involved in the epidemic prevention work, Sun Qinglan and his colleagues Zhang Xiwen, Liu Erqing and Yang Dangfu were assigned to the ferry management team. From the third day of the first month, they were stationed at the ferry every day from morning to night to check and register all those who purchase goods and medicines and persuade other residents who want to leave China.
孙晴岚的丈夫在安庆市基层派出所工作，也需要参与到抗疫工作中，两人将只有1岁多的孩子交给外婆照顾，中间只回过一次家拿换洗衣服。
Sun Qinglan's husband, who works in an Anqing city police station, also needs to be involved in the fight against the epidemic. The two men left their children over one year old in the care of their grandmother, only once during the trip home to get their clothes changed.
■ 2月14日，铁铜乡环卫工人方晓满和吴宗宝坚持在岗位上工作。
▪ On 14 February, Fang Xiaoman and Wu Zongbao, sanitary workers of Tongtong Township, insisted on working in their posts.
铁铜乡坐落在长江泥沙冲击而成的江心洲，往年过了初五六，洲上的人就走的差不多了。
Iron Copper Township located in the Yangtze River sediment from the impact of the mainland, the past five or six years, the people on the continent almost left.
今年封洲，大家都出不去，生活垃圾数量成倍增加，每天都要处理十几吨垃圾，其中还有15个专门收集废旧口罩的垃圾桶，需要单独消毒处理，方晓满和吴宗宝一趟趟把垃圾运回回收站，压缩、消毒、装袋，两天一次送往县城垃圾填埋场。
With more than 10 tons of garbage disposed of every day, 15 garbage bins specializing in the collection of used masks need to be disinfected separately. Fang and Wu make a trip to the recycle bin to compress, disinfect and bag the rubbish once every two days and send it to the county landfill every other day.
■ 2020年2月14日，安徽省枞阳县和平渡口，商行老板周真涛夫妇送货到渡口。
▪ On 14 February 2020, at the Peace Ferry in Fir County, Anhui Province, the comptoir owner, Zhou Jintao and his wife, delivered the goods to the ferry.
周真涛是县城新园商行的老板，平时主要给各个乡镇的超市和小商店送货，每天至少一趟，自从疫情爆发以来，近一个月的时间，他只出门送了4趟货。
Zhou Zhengtao, the owner of Xinyuan County comptoir, usually delivers goods to supermarkets and small shops in every township at least once a day. For almost a month since the outbreak of the outbreak, he has made only four deliveries.
今天，他带来了16箱面包、饼干等小商品，准备送往洲上，因为封洲的关系，他上不了船，洲上的小卖部老板也过不来，只能将货物放在物资运输船上带过去。
Today, he brought with him sixteen crates of small articles of bread and biscuits, to be sent to the Continent, where he could not board the ship, nor could the owner of the commissary on the Continent, who could only carry the goods on board the ship.
“现在这时候，还是不接触的好，做好防护，既是为自己好，也是为大家好。
"At this time, or not contact with the good, do a good job of protection, both for their own good, but also for everyone's good.
”周真涛边说边将一页记账单折好塞进了纸箱缝里。
"Zhou Jintao said as he folded a page of bills and stuffed them into the cardboard boxes.
将货物搬上船就立刻回了岸上，船没有多做停留又立马回航驶回洲上。
The cargo was immediately put on board and returned to shore. The boat made no more stops and sailed back to Europe.
■ 2月14日，一辆载满蔬菜的货车从身边经过，驶上已经熄火的渡船。
▪ On 14 February, a lorry laden with vegetables passed by and sailed on a ferryboat that had stalled.
洲上的蔬菜种植大户兼货车老板余永斌要把这一整车的菜运往县城，供应给菜市场和超市。
Yu Yongbin, the leading vegetable grower and trucker on the continent, would ship the entire load of vegetables to the county seat for the Halles and supermarkets.
铁铜乡是枞阳县城的“菜篮子”，每年春节期间每天都要送近10吨的蔬菜进城，如今封洲后，蔬菜供应量骤减到不足从前的三分之一。
Iron Copper Township is the "vegetable basket" of Fir County. Nearly 10 tons of vegetables are sent to the city every day during the Spring Festival.
虽然疫情期间，有的地方提高了的蔬菜价格，但余永斌依然按照以往的价格批发给市场。
Although the epidemic period, some places raised the price of vegetables, but Yu Yongbin still wholesale to the market in accordance with previous prices.
但是他心里最焦虑的是找不到帮工，很多菜要烂在地里。
But what worried him most was the fact that he could not find helpers and that many dishes would rot in the field.
■ 2月14日，往铁铜乡腹地行驶的路上，视线所及之处，土地平坦辽阔。
▪ On 14 February, on the way to the hinterland of iron and copper, the land was flat and vast, within sight.
一位老人在田间劳作，乌黑的泥土在他银亮的锄头下变得更加蓬松柔软。
An old man was working in the fields. The black earth was more fluffy under his silver hoe.
老人并没有戴口罩，他环顾四周说，没有人啊，没事的吧。
The old man was not wearing a mask. He looked around and said, "No one is there. It's okay."
老人说，在家里躺了半个多月了，着急！再不出来扒扒地，到了3月份玉米就不能下地了……■ 2月14日，铁铜乡庆丰村王凤明。
The old man said that he had been lying at home for more than half a month, worried! If he didn't come out to dig the ground again, the corn would not be able to go down in March.
王凤明是庆丰村的村医，也是两个孩子的母亲，孩子大的上6年级，小的才3岁。
Wang Fengming, a village doctor in Qingfeng village, is also the mother of two children, the eldest of the sixth grade, the youngest as young as three years old.
在村里碰到王凤明的时候，她一手拿着健康档案，一手拿着消毒喷雾，正要去湖北返乡人员姚成立家做今天的第二次随访。
When she met Wang Fengming in the village, with a health file in one hand and disinfectant spray in the other, she was on her way to set up a home for today's second visit to Hubei Province.
■ 2月14日，王凤明在姚成立家为两人做体温检测。
▪ On February 14, Wang Fengming set up a home in Yao for a temperature test for both of them.
庆丰村说大不大，说小不小，村里一共有45个湖北返乡人员，每天两次体温检测，全由她一人完成，从这家到那户，做完一轮，半天也就结束了，中午在卫生室随便吃点泡面，下午，又要开始了新一轮的检测。
Qingfeng village said big, said small, a total of 45 Hubei returnees in the village, a total of two daily temperature testing, all by herself, from the house, do a round, half a day is over, at noon in the health room casual bubble, in the afternoon, will start a new round of testing.
大年三十下午5点多，原本应该和家人一起准备年夜饭的她还在村里给湖北返乡人员量体温，等到做完检查消完毒匆匆忙忙赶回家，天已经完全黑了，丈夫家的老太太责怪她不为孩子考虑。
On New Year's Eve, at 5: 00 pm, she should have prepared the dinner with her family. She also took the temperature of Hubei returnees in the village. When she finished the examination and hurried home, it was quite dark.
■ 2月29日，安徽启动线上教育教学前夕，枞阳县雨坛镇雨坛村特困户学生汪茹鑫正在线学习。
:: On the eve of the launch of online education in Anhui Province on 29 February, Wang Zhuxin, a special hardship case student in Yutan Village, Fir County, was studying online.
当天，由于其家中网络出现故障，影响网上学习。
On the same day, due to network failures in their homes, the impact of online learning.
县电信公安排技术人员及时对她家网络故障进行了维修排除。
County telecommunications public arrangements for technical staff to her home network failure in a timely manner to remove maintenance.
■ 2月14日，铁铜乡的卫生院门诊大厅里竖着一顶帐篷，顶上贴着“发热门诊”四个大字，全副武装的医护人员坐在帐篷里，护目镜上全是雾气，分不清是男是女。
▪ On 14 February, a tent was set up in the out-patient hall of the Iron Copper Township, capped with the word "hot clinic," and heavily armed paramedics were sitting in tents, their goggles foggy and indistinguishable between men and women.
■ 2月14日，铁铜乡的何宗悦早早等候在岸边。
▪ On 14 February, He Zongyue of Iron Township waited early on the shore.
何宗悦年前才回家探望89岁的老母亲，原本打算在家住几天就飞美国和妻儿一起团聚，结果突如其来的疫情打乱了他所有的计划，出洲都成了问题，更不用提出国了。
He only went home a few days ago to visit his 89-year-old mother. He had planned to spend a few days at home with his wife and children.
何宗悦老母亲患有老年痴呆症，需要长期服用处方药，已经断药两天了，好在乡政府每天都派人挨家挨户登记所需生活物品和药品，再由专人去采购，得知今天的船带回来了母亲的处方药，他就在村里开了通行证，等拿到药后，忙不迭一边往家赶。
He Zongyue old mother suffering from Alzheimer's disease, need to take long-term prescription drugs, has been out of medicine for two days, the township government every day to send people door-to-door to check the necessary supplies and medicines, then procurement, learned that today's ship brought back my mother's prescription drugs, he issued a pass in the village, waiting for the medicine, rushed home.
一边说，是天留人，让他能在母亲膝前多尽些孝心。
On the one hand, the sky is left, so that he can in his mother's knee more filial piety.
■ 2月14日，安徽省枞阳县和平渡口。
:: 14 February, Peace Ferry, Fir County, Anhui Province.
■ 2月14日，安徽省枞阳县和平渡口，船老板在开往铁铜乡的渡船头上挂上安全绳。
▪ On 14 February, at the Peace Ferry in Pingyang County, Anhui Province, the owner of the boat put safety ropes on the ferry to Copper Township.
今年49岁的陈启胜已经在这个渡口摆渡了16年，往年的春节，他的渡船每天都要来回跑六七十趟，一天可以载六七千人过江，今年封洲停渡，其他船只全部停航，他的船被乡政府定为应急船和物资运输船，严格按照政府调配行驶，每天最多跑五六趟。
Chen, 49, has spent 16 years on the ferry, making 60-70 trips a day and carrying 6,000 or 7,000 people across the river in one day. His ship has been designated by the township government as an emergency ship and a cargo ship, and travels five or six times a day in strict accordance with government regulations.
春节本来是一年当中生意最好的时候，尽管因为这场疫情损失了十几万，但陈启胜说：“大是大非，我还是分得清的，政府这是在帮我们，我们都要配合的。
Although the Spring Festival was supposed to be the best time of year, despite the loss of hundreds of thousands of people due to the outbreak, Chen said: "I can still tell the difference. The government is helping us.
”■ 2月14日，枞阳县连续1天无新增新冠感染病例，累计确诊病例22例，累计出院7例。
▪ On February 14, there were no new cases of new crown infections in Fir county for one day in a row, with a total of 22 confirmed cases and 7 cumulative discharges.
江边，已难寻见往日的热闹。
Rivers, has been difficult to find the old lively.
江风凛冽，飞鸟从空中掠过，江面一艘孤单单的大货船渐行渐远。
River wind, birds passing through the air, the river a single large freighter is gradually moving away.
天空低沉，乌云翻滚，天地之间只剩下了江水流动的声音。
The sky was low and dark clouds rolled, leaving only the sound of the river flowing between heaven and earth.
2020年春节，一场突如其来的疫情让这里改变了模样。
In 2020, Spring Festival, a sudden outbreak of the disease here changed the look.
■ 2月21日，安徽省枞阳县和平渡口。
:: 21 February, Peace Ferry, Fir County, Anhui Province.
鉴于疫情防控期间群众外出务工等现实需要，县防疫指挥部于2月14日出台外出人员离县手续办理流程，大量无湖北（武汉）接触史、居家隔离时间满14天的及经检查无发热、咳嗽、气促等新冠肺炎症状的人员外出返工。
On February 14, the county epidemic prevention command issued a procedure for handling cases of people leaving the county, during which a large number of people who had no previous contact with Hubei (Wuhan), had spent 14 days in isolation and had no symptoms of fever, cough or shortness of breath returned to work.
■ 2月21日，安徽省枞阳县和平渡口，周华拖着行李走上渡口去往合肥复工。
:: On 21 February, Zhou Hua took his luggage to the ferry to get back to work in Hefei, Huiyang County, Anhui Province.
周华在拿到复工证明后，由本人申请填报枞阳县外出人员离县申请表，再确认近一个月以来无湖北（武汉）旅居史或与湖北（武汉）来枞、返乡人员接触史。
Zhou Hua After he got the certificate of resumption of work, I applied for the application form for the departure of the Fir County emigrant, confirming that there had been no Hubei (Wuhan) sojourn in the past month, or that there was no contact history with the Hubei (Wuhan) people who had returned to China.
由村卫生室进行身体检查后确认无发热、咳嗽等症状后签字盖章，报村委会签注意见方可出洲返工。
By the village health room after physical examination confirmed that no fever, cough and other symptoms after signing seal, report to the village committee sign the opinion before leaving the continent rework.
■ 2月21日，安徽省枞阳县和平渡口。
:: 21 February, Peace Ferry, Fir County, Anhui Province.
在宁波从事服装机械设备生意的张东洋，腊月23日携妻小回妻子老家铁铜新丰村过年，封洲后一直滞留在铁铜。
In Ningbo engaged in clothing machinery and equipment business Zhang Dongyang, Lai-xiao returned home with his wife to his wife's hometown Tie Cu Xinfeng village New Year, after the closure of the continent has remained in iron copper.
2月20日办理完离枞人员申请手续后，于今日和岳父一起回宁波复工，他的妻子和孩子留在老家，等疫情形势稳定后再去汇合。
On February 20, after completing the application formalities for the fir, I returned to Ningbo today with my father-in-law. His wife and children stayed at home until the outbreak stabilized.
■ 2月21日，安徽省枞阳县和平渡口，一名来接女朋友的男子在等渡船。
▪ On 21 February, a man came to pick up his girlfriend at the Peace Ferry in Pingyang County, Anhui Province, waiting for the ferry.
■ 2月23日，枞阳县连续天10无新增。
:: On 23 February, 10 consecutive days were added in Fir County.
县指九号通告，撤销本县范围内国省干线、高速公路出口检疫点，拆除县乡村道路“硬隔离”，取消企业和项目复工复产审批备案，全面组织复工复产。
The State Council issued Notice No. 9, revoking the major export quarantine points of the main roads and highways in the county, dismantling the "hard isolation" of county roads, canceling the approval and filing of the enterprises and projects to resume production, and organizing the resumption of full-scale industrial production.
■ 3月2日，为统筹复工复产和疫期防控期间群众婚姻登记办理的需求，枞阳县恢复婚姻登记业务。
▪ On 2 March, in order to coordinate the resumption of work and mass registration of marriages during the period of epidemic prevention and control, the business of marriage registration resumed in Fir County.
许杨兵和杨凤，在江苏常熟服装厂打工，平日也没时间，年前两人就计划好春节回老家领证的，因为疫情给搁置了。
Xu Yang Bing and Yang Feng worked in Changshu Garment Factory in Jiangsu Province. They had no time on weekdays.
今天，两人终于在县里民政局恢复婚姻登记的第一天领证结婚，他们计划再过几日就回江苏上班了。
Today, the two finally got married on the first day of the resumption of civil registration at the county civil affairs bureau, and they plan to return to work in Jiangsu in a few days.
■二月初二 ，龙抬头。
February 2nd, head of dragon.
枞阳镇双龙村，在城里开理发店的张文艺回村里为老人和孩子义务理发。
In the town of Ssangyong, Zhang Wenyi, who owns a barber shop in the city, goes back to the village to do volunteer haircuts for old people and children.
■ 2月24日，枞阳县恢复了县城区部分公交线路运营和县域内出租车客运，公交车上人不多。
▪ On 24 February, Fir County resumed the operation of part of the county's urban bus lines and taxi passenger transport in the county area, with not many people on buses.
■ 2月26日，长江枞阳段。
:: 26 February, Fir Yang section of the Changjiang River.
实行分级有序恢复渡船政策实施后渡口过往车辆比往日增加了不少。
Since the implementation of the policy of graded and orderly restoration of ferries, the number of ferries passing by has increased considerably.
■ 2月24日，枞阳镇双龙村。
:: 24 February, Ssangyong village, town of Fir.
值班的卡口工作人员。
Checkpoint staff on duty.
■ 2月24日，长江枞阳段。
:: 24 February, Fir Yang section of the Changjiang River.
江边钓鱼的人们。
People fishing by the river.
这个冬天，江上的寒流刺骨，但江流依旧辽阔，日夜奔腾。
This winter, the cold current on the river is biting, but the river is still vast, running day and night.
人间的那些哀愁与欢欣，悲凉与温情，在江边一日又一日上演，不曾落幕。
Those sad and happy, sad and tender feelings, in the river day after day staged, never closed.
已经立春的日子，天开始回暖。
The days of spring had begun to warm up again.
我始终记得2月3日，枞阳首位治愈出院的新冠肺炎患者，她在回村的路上人们还是不敢接近她。
I still remember the first case of Fir Yang who was discharged from hospital on February 3, and she was still afraid to approach her on her way back to her village.
但愿这份恐惧有更多对生命的尊重，但愿这份恐惧警醒着人们对自然的敬畏，如同加缪在《鼠疫》中说过的：“人类能在这场鼠疫和生活的赌博中，赢得的全部东西，就是知识和记忆!”更多疫情故事，请点击左下角「阅读原文」。
May this fear inspire more reverence for life, as Camus said in The Bubonic Plague: "All that man can win in this plague and the gamble of life is knowledge and memory!" For more stories about the epidemic, please click "Read the text" at the bottom left.
新型肺炎疫情牵动人心，《在人间》现面向全国网友征稿：（一）疫区影像日记如果你身处疫区请你用照片（视频）和文字记录你所听闻和见到的一切照片不少于3张文字不少于300字投稿方式：微信联系人间君（zairenjianliving）（二）抗击疫情真实故事无论你是一线医护人员、志愿者、确诊或疑似患者及家属、已治愈出院人士等等，如果希望讲述疫情相关经历，请微信联系人间君（zairenjianliving）。
If you are in an epidemic area, please use photos (video) and writing to record all photos you hear and see in no less than 300 words. Whether you are a frontline health care worker, volunteer, confirmed or suspected patient and family member, cured patient or discharged person, please contact the ruler of the world by letter.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
在人间丨基层干部的抗疫日记：从封路、隔离到复工。
Diary of resistance to disease in the world, from road sealing to isolation to return to work.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "图片";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; picture & quot;;
var nickname = "在人间living";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; at & quot; among men.
var msg_title = "在人间丨基层干部的抗疫日记：从封路、隔离到复工";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; from sealing, quarantining, to reinstating & quot;;
var msg_desc = "我用镜头记录被疫情笼罩的小城。
var msg _ desc = & quot; I used a lens to record the town covered by the outbreak.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '在人间丨我在武汉金银潭医院ICU的10小时',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '在人间丨逆行者与单亲少年',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '在人间丨“拯救世界”的武汉普通人',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="在人间living";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; at human & quot;
