抢救重症新冠病人。
To rescue patients with severe crowns.
刘君鹏。
Liu Junpeng.
GQ报道                      。
GQ coverage.
GQ报道。
GQ coverage.
记录人物的浮沉和时代价值的变迁。
Record the ebb and flow of characters and the vicissitudes of the times.
全面、真实、深入、准确的非虚构故事，每周为您送上。
Full, true, in-depth, accurate non-fiction story, sent to you every week.
。
.
易慧是援助武汉的主治医师，她与同事一起进行了一次对重症新冠病人的抢救。
Yi Hui, a doctor who assisted Wuhan, worked with her colleagues to rescue patients with severe new crown.
记者详细复盘了手术的细节，记录了医生在条件受限的情况下如何判断病情、选择手术方案，最终艰难完成。
Reporter detailed the details of the operation, recorded the conditions of the doctors under the constraints of how to judge the disease, select surgical options, and ultimately difficult to complete.
这场手术看起来惊心动魄，却是武汉医院里的日常。
The operation, which looked breathtaking, was routine in Wuhan hospital.
···············凌晨5时，易慧准时起床洗脸、刷牙，吃早餐。
At 5 a.m., Yi Hui got up on time to wash her face, brush her teeth and have breakfast.
她是援助汉口医院重症隔离病房的主治医师，给自己备了一桶泡面，半盒苏打饼干，为避免值班时上厕所，没敢多喝水。
She was attending the intensive care unit of Hankou Hospital and prepared a bucket of noodles, half a box of soda biscuits and no more water to avoid going to the toilet while on duty.
73床陪房家属熊志强也没能睡踏实。
Xiong Zhiqiang, a 73-bed family member, also failed to sleep well.
老父亲75岁，血氧饱和度在86%—88%间徘徊，“如果是平时，肯定得‘插管’”。
The father was 75 years old and his blood oxygen saturation hovered between 86% and 88%.
他在凌晨时多次醒来，披着半透明的雨衣，权当防护服。
He woke up many times in the early hours of the morning in a translucent raincoat that served as a shield.
窗外没有光，念起同样在别处住院的母亲，他不禁心急如焚。
There was no light outside the window, and his mother, who was also hospitalized elsewhere, became distraught.
易慧对这位礼貌的家属印象深刻。
Yi Hui was impressed by this polite family member.
她见惯ICU里的生离死别，经常应对家属爆发的激烈情绪，但熊志强从不埋怨。
As she is used to life and death in the ICU, she is used to the violent emotions that are developing among family members.
吃过早饭，她在鼻梁上贴了张防勒痕的“水胶体敷料”，匆匆出门。
After breakfast, she posted a "water gel dressing" on her nose and hurried out the door.
六点半抵达医院，她穿好防护服，戴上手套、鞋套、护目镜，穿过4道门进入隔离区，一眼就望见73床家属，安安静静坐在那里，腰背挺得很直。
Arriving at the hospital at 6.30 a.m., she dressed in protective clothing, gloves, shoes and goggles, crossed four doors into the area of separation and saw at a glance 73 family members sitting peacefully with their backs straight.
上午7时交完班，易慧开始查房。
After handing in the work at 7: 00 am, Yi Hui began to check the room.
她个子不高，瘦削、柔弱，给衣服写名字做标记时，习惯顺手画一个心形图案。
She was not tall, thin, frail, and it was her habit to draw a heart-shaped pattern while marking the names of her clothes.
突然，她听到责任护士呼唤自己的名字。
Suddenly she heard the duty nurse calling her name.
73床忽然感到胸口绞痛，难受得大喊大叫。
The bed suddenly feels chest colic, is afflictive shouts.
原来熊志强父亲吃过饭，刚休息一会儿，倚靠枕头坐起来，抻出胳膊拉伸，情势就急转直下。
The original Xiong Zhiqiang father ate, just rest a while, lean on the pillow to sit up, stretch out his arms stretch, the situation fell sharply.
9时20分，易慧赶到现场，监护仪屏幕显示的血氧饱和度，骤然降至百分之六十几，如果不想办法抢救，几个小时后，病人即会撒手人寰。
At 9: 20, Yi Hui arrived at the scene and the blood oxygen saturation shown on the monitor screen suddenly dropped to more than 60 percent.
易慧记得那天是2020年1月31日。
Yi Hui remembers that it was January 31, 2020.
武汉“封城”的第7日。
Wuhan "closure" of the seventh day.
❶是否穿刺？走廊里长长的灯管晃人眼睛。
Does the needle pierce? The long lamp in the hallway dazzles the eyes.
病房内，氧气罐的湿化瓶咕噜咕噜，各种机器发出嗡嗡的声音，不止不休。
Inside the ward, the humming bottles of oxygen tanks purred, and machines hummed and buzzed.
易慧翻出73床指尖的红外线指脉。
Yi Hui dug out the infrared fingertips of the 73-bed fingertips.
夹子没有脱落，面罩佩戴完好，罐内氧气充足。
The clamp is not off, the mask is worn well, and oxygen is plentiful in the tank.
她在ICU实战多年，养成首先检查设备的条件反射。
After years of fighting in the ICU, she developed a conditioned response to check her equipment first.
病人血氧饱和度骤降的可能性太多了。
There is too much likelihood of a sudden drop in blood oxygen saturation.
比如“肺栓塞”，病人长期躺卧，下肢血液瘀滞，血栓容易脱落，需要服用溶栓的药物“瑞通立”。
For example, "pulmonary embolism," patients lying for a long time, blood stasis of lower limbs, thrombosis easy to fall out, need to take thrombolytic drugs "Ruitong li."
也有可能是“肺心病”，这种疾病的病理更为复杂。
It may also be "pulmonary heart disease," the pathology of which is more complex.
人类心脏分左右两个心室，右心室回流无氧血，通过压力泵入肺部，利用肺泡伸缩补充氧气。
The human heart divides the left and right ventricles, the right ventricle returns oxygen-free blood, pumps into the lungs through pressure, and uses alveolar expansion to replenish oxygen.
氧合后的血，流往左心室，喷入动脉供应给全身。
The oxygenated blood flows to the left ventricle and is injected into the arteries to supply the body.
被上下器官汲完氧气的静脉血，再次由右心回收，往肺里泵血补氧。
Intravenous blood drained from the upper and lower organs is recovered again from the right heart to pump blood into the lungs to replenish oxygen.
肺部病变后，免疫细胞本能自保，在病毒攻击的位置产生“渗出”，附着于血管外壁，垒筑起一道屏障，拦截肺里的氧气向血液中弥散，以至于，经流双肺肺泡加工输送至左心室的血液，氧含量不足，正是血氧饱和度下降的原因之一。
After lung lesions, immune cells instinctively protect themselves, producing "seepage" at the site of the virus attack, attaching to the outer wall of the vessel, erecting a barrier to the oxygen in the lungs that diffuses into the bloodstream, to the extent that insufficient oxygen is transported to the left ventricle through the flow of pulmonary alveoli, one of the reasons for the decrease in blood oxygen saturation.
忆及病人的情况时，易慧直视前方，语速均匀，一字一顿讲起艰涩复杂的医学术语。
Recalling the patient's condition, Yi Hui looked straight ahead, speaking at the same speed and speaking difficult and complicated medical terms.
介绍完专业内容，她才恢复浓重鼻音的平舌音，语气也温和起来。
After the introduction of the professional content, she was able to restore the heavy nasal tone of the flat tongue, tone also mild.
“更要命的是，肺内气管由于缺氧收窄”，她接着解释说，右心向其泵血困难，内部压力飙升，把自己憋大，从而挤压心房空间，左心持续瘪塌。
"Worse still, the trachea in her lungs is narrowing from lack of oxygen," she explained, adding that the right heart was having trouble pumping blood at her and internal pressure was so high that she squeezed the atrial space and the left heart kept collapsing.
新冠老年重症患者当中，罹患此两种“合并症”状况的很普遍。
These two "complications" are common in severe cases in the new crown.
“不少人去世都跟这个有关。
"A lot of people died because of that.
”易慧分析。
"Yi Hui analysis.
“还有一种可能，那就是气胸。
"Another possibility, though, is the pneumothorax.
”9时23分，同组的医师吴健锋过来帮手。
At 0923 hours, a doctor from the same group, Wu Jianfeng, came to help.
吴健锋是重症医疗学科领域的“大牛”，同伴以“吴老师”相称。
Wu Jianfeng is the "Daniel" in the field of severe medical science.
他盯了一眼心电监护仪，血氧饱和度只有68%，转过头，对着易慧说：“气胸的可能性也很大”。
He stared at the electrocardiograph. Blood oxygen saturation was only 68 percent. He turned to Yi Hui and said, "There's also a great chance of chest tightness."
三言两语间，司向医生也闻讯赶到。
In a few words, the Secretary to the doctor to be informed.
空间显得局促，医生们紧张交流着病人的情况，湿化瓶的咕噜咕噜声被淹没。
Space seemed cramped, doctors talked nervously about patients and the purring of wet bottles drowned out.
气胸的可能性当然也很大，易慧说，那意味着局势更为紧迫。
The possibility of pneumothorax is certainly high, says Yi Hui, which means the situation is more urgent.
病人在极度缺氧的处境下，会竭尽全力呼吸，用力过于刚猛，腔内负压剧增，肺泡瞬间撑破。
The patient in the extremely hypoxic situation, will do their best to breathe, too hard too strong, the cavity negative pressure increased dramatically, the alveolar burst instantly.
气体顺着裂纹流溢，滞留在胸腔内两层薄膜间。
The gas flows along the crack and stays between the two layers of film in the thoracic cavity.
目前的难度在于，如何确诊气胸。
The challenge now is to determine how to diagnose pneumothorax.
平日里，即便是使用最简易的听诊器，也能根据胸腔的不同声响做出大致区分。
On weekdays, even the simplest stethoscope can make a rough distinction based on the sound of the chest cavity.
现在耳朵被口罩、面罩死死包裹，双手套上三层手套，无法行使基础操作。
Now the ear mask, mask dead wrapped, hands covered with three gloves, unable to exercise the basic operation.
如果是在设备齐全的ICU病房，再不济，也能随手抽出一台超声仪，把病灶摸清楚。
If it is in the fully equipped ICU ward, no longer available, also can draw out a sonograph casually, feel the lesion clearly.
几人交换意见，凭借经验，怀疑气胸的可能性最大。
A few people exchange views, relying on experience, suspicion of pneumothorax is the most likely.
通常的应对之法，需在锁骨下方第二肋间做“穿刺”，插入管子把积聚的气体放出来。
The usual way to deal with this is to "pierce" the second rib below the collarbone and insert a tube to release the accumulated gas.
事态紧急，要不要直接穿？“还是不能。
In case of emergency, do you want to wear it directly or not
”不敢确定，吴健锋回忆，气胸有个明显特征，“漏气”后胸腔鼓鼓隆起，看上去不明显，“至少部位吃不准”。
Not sure, Wu recalled, there was a distinct characteristic of pneumothorax, "leakage" after the chest bulge, do not look obvious, "at least part of the food.
听着同事们的讨论，一个更大的不安从易慧心底冒出来——也有可能是病人本身的新冠病情，不可逆转陡然加重。
Listening to the discussion among colleagues, an even greater uneasiness emerges from Elvis's heart - and it could be the patient's own new crown, with a sudden and irreversible increase.
❷妈妈真的很爱你我叫易慧，广州市中山大学第一附属医院ICU主任医师，大年三十那天晚上抵达武汉。
Zheng mother really loves you I am Yi Hui, Guangzhou Zhongshan University First Affiliated Hospital ICU director, arrived in Wuhan on the night of the 30th anniversary.
1月20号钟南山讲完话，我们科室的同事之间讨论，大家都在说，肺炎的事情可能非常大，有预感要上“前线”。
January 20 Zhong Nan Shan speech, our colleagues in the department of discussion, everyone said that pneumonia may be very big, a presentiment to the "front line.
没想到，这么紧急。
I didn't think it was urgent.
我们对口武汉的汉口医院。
Our counterpart in Wuhan Hankou Hospital.
情况比所能想象到的最坏结果，还要糟糕很多。
The situation is much worse than the worst that could be imagined.
医院基本上处于半瘫痪状态，到处是病人，原来的医务人员也倒下不少。
Hospitals were largely semi-paralyzed, with patients and former medical staff also falling.
我们过来，先是打扫卫生，搬氧气罐，有一次，我半夜一两点下班出来，还看到我们的刘处在那里捡垃圾。
We came over first to clean up the mess, carry the oxygen tank, and once, I came out of work one or two in the middle of the night and saw our Liu picking up the rubbish there.
说实话，我在ICU做了十几年医生，各种各样的大喜大悲都遇到过，可从来没有像这次有这么强烈的无力感。
To tell you the truth, I have been a doctor in ICU for more than ten years, all kinds of great happiness and sorrow have been met, but never before has there been such a strong sense of powerlessness.
太无力了。
It's too weak.
2019年，我印象最深刻的病人是个小女孩，她是普通肺炎，但非常严重，别的地方已经建议做肺移植。
In 2019, my most impressive patient was a little girl with ordinary pneumonia, but very serious, and a lung transplant was recommended elsewhere.
但家属没有放弃，我们也没有放弃，她在ICU住了20多天，竟然一点一点熬了过来，最后康复出院了。
But the family did not give up, we did not give up, she lived in the ICU for more than 20 days, unexpectedly bit by bit over, finally recovered from hospital.
这是去年我印象很深的一个患者，已经到那个程度，硬是从死神那里拽了回来。
This was one of the patients I had a deep impression of last year, and who had reached that point and was dragged back from death.
所以我相信奇迹。
So I believe in miracles.
ICU的工作风格，常常是为了抢救不惜成本，像体外膜肺这种方法，动辄消耗几十万，动用整个科室的力量，抓住一线希望挽救生命。
The ICU's style of work, often designed to save lives at any cost, is to use hundreds of thousands of dollars, using the power of entire departments to seize a glimmer of hope to save lives.
可眼下太难了。
But it's too hard right now.
刚开始，吸氧都成问题，管网老化，再加上流量高，如果某个病床阀门开太大，其他人就吸不了了。
At first, oxygen absorption was a problem, the network aged, coupled with high flow, if one bed valve opened too large, others could not.
你说，给谁吸，不给谁吸？在武汉，我第一个没有拉回来的病人，是一位50多岁的阿姨。
In Wuhan, I was the first patient not to be pulled back, an aunt in her fifties.
之前一直没有床位，只能在门诊和社区隔离。
Previously there had been no beds, only outpatient and community isolation.
等到能接收她时，赶快把氧给她吸上，可是，刚住进来一个多小时，人就没了。
When he could receive her, he sucked up the oxygen, but after he had been there for more than an hour, he was gone.
我的职业要求自己，尽量保持平常心，保持理性，可这样的事情见多了，还是伤感。
My career requires me, try to keep normal, keep rational, but such things see more, or sad.
很多人没能见到病人最后一面，趴在地上大哭，边哭边说，昨天还好好的，怎么一下子人就没了，还有好多话没对你讲。
Many people did not see the last side of the patient, lying on the ground and crying, said, yesterday is still good, how all of a sudden people are gone, there are a lot of words to you.
他们有恋人，有夫妻，也有孩子对爸爸妈妈，或者，爸爸妈妈对孩子说。
They have lovers, couples, children to their parents, or parents to say to their children.
这对我的生活态度、世界观影响很大。
This has a great impact on my attitude towards life and worldview.
我一直对身边的朋友说，我们大家不要隐藏自己对爱的人的感情，有什么想说的话，该说就说。
I have been saying to my friends around me that we should not hide our feelings for the people we love and say what we want to say.
我对父母、对先生、对女儿，一直都这样。
It has always been the case with my parents, with my husband, and with my daughter.
在武汉这些天，恰逢女儿四岁生日，这是我第一次没陪她一起过生日。
These days in Wuhan, which coincides with my daughter's fourth birthday, this is the first time I did not accompany her birthday.
她很不开心，生气说不要妈妈了。
She was very unhappy and angry that she didn't want her mother.
我想对她说，妈妈很爱你，妈妈真的真的很爱你。
I want to say to her, mother loves you very much, mother really really loves you.
❸“肺点，找到肺点了”“超声仪来了。
"Zen" lung point, found lung point "" supersonic to come.
”那是一台大小接近于电脑桌的塑料推车，放着底座足有5厘米厚、笔记本电脑形状的主机，配有手柄的面板连接着一根近2米长的细线，直通棒槌状的探头。
It was a plastic trolley nearly the size of a computer table with a 5-centimetre-thick laptop-shaped host with a handle-mounted panel attached to a thin line nearly two metres long and running straight through a stick-like probe.
型号虽然陈旧，但是能用。
The model is old, but it works.
吴健锋刚刚抱着试一试的心态，给医务科打电话，询问医院有没有超声仪，没想到还真有。
Wu Jianfeng just had a try of the mentality, to the medical section to call, asked whether the hospital has sonograph, did not expect that there is really.
9时35分，护士推来整套超声仪设备。
At 0935 hours the nurse pushed the whole set of ultrasonic equipment.
“让我来吧。
"" Let me come.
”“嗯。
"" Hmm.
”易慧轻声细语，动作干净利落。
"Yi Hui spoke softly and neatly.
她把设备推进去，紧贴氧气罐竖立。
She pushed the device into place, close to the oxygen tank.
司向接过超声仪面板，往探头上涂了一小撮藕合剂，走到病床边。
The Secretary took the supersonic panel, put a pinch of lotus root mixture on the probe and walked to the side of the bed.
司向今年33岁，是中山一附医的业务新星。
The company is 33 years old and is a rising star in the business of Zhongshan.
他坐上床沿，拿探头触碰患者心口。
He sat on the edge of the bed and touched the patient's heart with his probes.
透过面罩，他低头去看面板液晶屏，上面的雪花点颗粒袖珍、排列密集，自下而上灰度渐浅，过渡得自然顺滑。
Through the mask, he looked down at the panel LCD screen, the snowflake particles above the pocket, closely arranged, bottom-up grayscale gradually shallow, the transition to smooth.
“不是心肺病。
"Not cardio-pulmonary disease.
”易慧通过主机大屏幕判断。
Yi Hui judged by using the mainframe screen.
探头往上走，来到关键的肺叶区域。
Head up to the critical lobe of the lungs.
胸膜滑动，清晰、正常。
The pleura glides, clear and normal.
换边，再照。
Change sides, take pictures.
啊，胸膜滑动没了。
Oh, the pleura is slipping.
司向解释，两肺之间隔着“脏层胸膜”和“壁层胸膜”，呼气吸气来回开阖，两层胸膜相互滑动的现象，叫“胸膜滑动”。
The department explained that the lungs were separated by a "visceral pleura" and a "wall pleura." Breathing in and out, two layers of pleura sliding back and forth, called "pleural sliding."
这属于正常状态，说明没有气体在流动。
This is a normal state of affairs, indicating that no gas is flowing.
“如果不动了，你看，两个白点、两个黑点没有动，那说明，中间有气体跑进来了，动不了了。
If you do not move, you will see that the two white dots and the two black dots have not moved.
”漆黑一团的面板上，像云一样的白带上宽下窄，呈倒三角层层凝固。
On the dark panel, the white belt as wide and narrow as a cloud, congealed in an inverted triangle.
9时40分，气胸的怀疑进一步得到佐证。
At 0940 hours, the suspicion of the pneumothorax was further corroborated.
接下来，要是能找到“肺点”——血氧饱和度数值断崖下降的原因就板上钉钉了。
Next, if you can find the "lung point" - the reason for the drop in the value of blood oxygen saturation bluff - it is certain.
司向转过头，瞄了一眼易慧和吴健锋，没能瞅清两人的表情。
The Secretary turned his head and glanced at Yi Hui and Wu Jianfeng.
他说，职业直觉告诉自己，两位老师鼓励自己继续。
'Professional intuition tells me that the two teachers encourage themselves to continue, 'he says.
探头顺着胸线从左往右蠕动，司向摸着肋骨，半根半根往下探索。
The probes crept from left to right along the chest line, the primer feeling his ribs and half his roots down.
易慧深吸一口气，感觉身体被勒得更紧。
Yi Hui took a deep breath and felt the body tighten.
她与吴健锋死死盯着屏幕。
She stared fixedly at the screen with Wu Jianfeng.
时间一分一秒流逝。
Every minute goes by.
9时43分。
It left at 0943 hours.
9时45分。
It left at 0945 hours.
46分。
46 points.
“谢谢你们啦。
"Thank you.
谢谢医生。
Thanks to the doctor.
”75岁阿伯神志清醒，喃喃冒出几句话。
"Abe, 75, was wide-awake and mumbled a few words.
易慧在ICU工作14年，她明白，ICU是踩钢丝的艺术，每做出一个抉择，就会面临新的风险，能取得病人或者家属的信任，对抢救非常重要。
Yi Hui has worked in the ICU for 14 years. She knows that the ICU is the art of stepping on steel wire. Every time you make a choice, you will face new risks.
“生死所系，性命相托。
Life and death depend on it.
这份信任对医生很重要。
This trust is important to the doctor.
”学术界公认，肺点是确诊气胸的一条“金线”，它是实时超声显像中肺膜滑动与消失的分界点。
The lung is widely recognized in academia as a "golden line" for the diagnosis of pneumothorax, the point at which the membranes slide and disappear in real-time ultrasound imaging.
不过，肺点藏匿极为隐蔽，通常难窥真容。
However, the hiding place of lung points is extremely hidden and often difficult to see.
当前，右肺无胸膜滑动的图形已明晰，不能一直拖下去，实在不行，就穿刺。
At present, the right lung without pleural slipping pattern has been clear, can not be dragged down, really can not, piercing.
案头必备的胸部穿刺套件，是东挪西凑临时寻来。
The desk-bound chest puncture kit was found impromptu.
一份胸穿套盒，针头、丝线、气筒够用，没有抽气的胶管，只好拿一根规格略大的粗管，改造前后开口，凑合使用。
A chest wearing case, needles, silk thread, cylinder enough to use, there is no suction hose, had to take a slightly larger size of thick pipe, reform the front and back openings, make use of.
排气的水封瓶也没有，医生发动护士，把科室里唯一的瓶子奉献出来。
There was no bottle of vented water, and the doctor started the nurse and dedicated the only bottle in the department.
“肺点，找到肺点了。
"Lung, here's the lung.
”9时55分，司向几乎吼了出来。
At 9: 55, the Secretary almost shouted.
找到了，这下可以确认，司向伸出指头反复指向电脑，可以做穿刺了。
I found it. It confirmed that the department pointed its finger at the computer repeatedly, so it could be pierced.
吴健锋点点头，对大家说，好的。
Wu Jianfeng nodded and said to everyone, OK.
主机屏幕上，横纹拼接的锥形密度匀称，腰部围着一条截开的黑带。
On the main screen, the taper density of the horizontal splice is even, with a truncated black belt around the waist.
得一帧一帧细辨，才能看出眉目，一个模糊的点，出现在暗灰结界处。
To see the eyebrow, a blurry dot appears at the dark gray boundary, one frame at a time.
易慧说，现在该我上场了。
Yi Hui said it was time for me to play.
❹爸爸的排骨汤我们家最早感染的人是我父亲。
The first person to infect our family was my father.
1月16号，他感觉发烧，去医院看病，当天住院治疗。
On 16 January, he developed a fever and went to the hospital, where he was hospitalized the same day.
那个时候，没怎么听说过这个病毒，我去汉口医院看他，只是觉得人比平时多。
At that time, did not hear of the virus, I went to Hankou Hospital to see him, but feel more than usual.
大概20号觉得不对劲，那个时候再去医院，医生护士开始穿防护服，看起来就很恐怖了。
Maybe No. 20 didn't feel right. Then I went to the hospital and the doctor and nurse began to wear protective clothing. It looked terrible.
爸爸住院几天之后，我妈妈也开始发烧。
After Dad was in hospital for a few days, my mother had a fever, too.
她去的是长航医院。
She went to Changjiang Hospital.
说来也巧，刚好有一个床位，就住进去了。
It so happened that there was a bed just in time to live in it.
晚一两天，哪怕再晚半天，床位就没没了。
A day or two late, or even half a day later, the bed was gone.
妈妈后来从长航转到金银潭，我就去金银潭照顾她，我弟弟去汉口医院照顾爸爸。
My mother was transferred from Changjiang to Gold and Silver Pool. I went to take care of her. My brother went to Hankou Hospital to look after my father.
一个妹妹在长沙，也被感染了。
A sister in Changsha was also infected.
妈妈恢复得不错，每一天都在好转，爸爸那边的情况很不乐观。
Mom recovered well, every day was getting better, and Dad's situation was not very good.
我去汉口医院看我爸，他跟我说想喝汤，就做了好吃好喝的给他端过去。
I went to Hankou Hospital to see my father, he told me that he wanted to drink soup, made a good food and drink to him.
爸爸下楼来接，才几天没见，样子全变了，如果不是他叫我，还以为是病友帮忙来取东西。
Dad came downstairs to pick me up. He hadn't seen him for a few days, and if he hadn't called me, he'd have thought it was his sick friend who was helping him get things.
他头发散乱，走路颤颤巍巍。
His hair was disheveled and he walked trembling.
等认出来那就是爸爸，我吓了一跳，排骨汤掉地上，撒了一地。
When I realized it was Dad, I started and the chop soup fell to the ground and spilled all over the floor.
太伤心了，爸爸怎么成了这样子。
That's sad. What's Dad doing here.
我又跑回去，给他盛了一碗肉汤送过去，那天如果没有让爸爸喝到那碗汤，我一辈子都不能原谅自己。
I ran back and served him a bowl of gravy, which I would never have forgiven myself for not letting Dad drink the soup that day.
爸爸越来越严重，起不了床，我就给他送进去。
Dad was getting too bad to get out of bed, so I sent him in.
好像按规定，隔离病房不让家属进去，那时候乱成一锅粥，顾不上那么多，再后来，听说陆续都不让再进去了。
As if the regulations, the isolation ward does not allow family members to go in, then chaotic into a pot of porridge, care for so much, and then, I heard that no further entry.
我很小心，能穿能戴的都披上了，我们家有好几件雨衣，蓝的、黄的、绿色轮流换。
I was careful enough to wear what I could. Our house had several raincoats, blue, yellow and green.
爸爸不想让人进去看他，担心把我也感染了，我就坐在门口，等有需要，再进去帮忙。
Dad didn't want anyone to come in and worry about infecting me, so I sat at the door, waiting for someone to come in and help.
我非常非常感谢医生护士，他们真的付出很多。
I really appreciate the doctors and nurses. They really give a lot.
我叫熊志强，我弟弟叫熊志勇，寓意勇敢、坚强。
My name is Xiong Zhiqiang. My brother is Xiong Zhiyong.
我是很乐观的人，我爸爸我妈妈，我们一家人都很乐观，这件事之后，我还会教育我儿子，要乐观，要积极对待生活。
I am a very optimistic person, my father my mother, our family are very optimistic, after this matter, I will also teach my son, optimistic, positive attitude towards life.
可是，我内心深处，还是很悲伤，伤痛会一直都在。
But deep down, I still feel sad, the pain will always be there.
❺“看到阳光，感觉又活过来了”针管足足15厘米。
Zen "see the sun, feel alive again" needle tube fully 15 centimeters.
易慧从盒子里抽出来，举在眼前。
Yi Hui pulled it out of the box and held it up in front of him.
方才肺点确认的地方已经消毒，条件所限，尽力在侧肋间做了局部麻醉。
Fang just confirmed the location of lung point has been disinfected, the conditions are limited, try to do a local anesthesia between the side ribs.
她分开食指和中指，固定住病人的皮肤，捏紧针管尾部蓝色的“三通活栓”，将直径0.4毫米的针眼，瞄准腋中线的一个点，缓缓刺去。
She splits her index and middle fingers, holds the patient's skin in place, pinches the blue "three-way bolt" at the tail of the needle, and gently pricks the 0.4 millimetre diameter needle at a point in the axil median line.
易慧站着操作，腰弯成弓形。
Yi Hui stands, bending her waist into a bow.
司向、吴健锋退守到一米开外的空间。
Secretary to, Wu Jianfeng retreat to a meter away from the space.
“啊！”老伯竭力配合，可还是疼。
"Ah!" Old Bob tried to cooperate, but it still hurt.
刺破肌肤后，针头撑开皮下组织，触感变紧。
After piercing the skin, needles prop up subcutaneous tissue, causing the sensation to tighten.
易慧掌握节奏，持续向前深探，直至长针埋进肉里5公分。
Yi Hui mastered the rhythm and continued to probe deep until the long needle buried 5 cm in the meat.
抵触感消失后，意味着已穿入胸膜腔。
When the resistance disappears, it means that the pleural cavity has been penetrated.
“这就是为什么，最好能探明肺点精准方位的原因，弄不好再损伤肺脏的话，无疑雪上加霜。
"That's why it's better to find out the exact location of your lungs, to make it worse if you can't damage your lungs.
”接下来是装引导线，那是一根极细的钢丝，易慧将其沿着针眼扎进胸腔内部，再用扩张器将洞口扩充。
Next came the guide line, a very thin wire that Yi Hui had pierced through the thoracic cavity, then expanded it with an expander.
她把先前准备好的胶管，顺着钢丝放进胸腔里。
She put the rubber tube she had prepared into her chest along the wire.
好了，积气终于可以往外流了。
Well, the gas is finally draining away.
不过还不够。
But it's not enough.
胸腔内气体太多，自动外泄太慢，有必要人工引气。
There is too much gas in the chest, and it is too slow to leak automatically.
引流管尾巴留有中空切口，插入注射器往外吸。
The tail of the drain pipe has a hollow incision inserted into the syringe and sucked out.
注射器规格为50毫升，一边抽，易慧一边在心里记着数字。
The syringe had a gauge of 50ml, and Yi Hui kept the figures in mind as he smoked.
司向凑过去，数出声来。
The division approached and counted out.
“一管”。
"One tube."
“两管”。
"Two tubes."
“三…”。
"Three..."
“升了，（血氧）饱和度升了。
"L, the saturation has gone up.
”抽完第5管，吴健锋声调忽然增高，他把心电监护显示的数据报出来，血氧饱和度往上提升了两个百分点。
After pipe 5, Wu Jianfeng's voice suddenly increased. He reported the ECG data, and the oxygen saturation of the blood increased by two percentage points.
说明有效果。
The instructions worked.
易慧仍然没有说话。
Yi Hui still did not speak.
不过循着吴医生提醒，目光投向液晶屏幕，抬起头，再放下来。
But follow Dr. Wu to remind, look at the LCD screen, raised his head, and then down.
绿色字码很快突破70%，然后，一点一点往上攀爬。
The green letter code soon passed 70%, and then, little by little, climbed up.
她记得很清晰，50毫升的注射器，整整抽了10管。
She remembers clearly, 50 milliliter syringes, 10 straight tubes.
指头感受到注射针筒的负压之后，易慧停止抽气操作。
After the finger felt the negative pressure of the syringe, Yi Hui stopped pumping.
最终，血氧饱和度定格在83%。
In the end, the oxygen saturation lattice was 83%.
比出事前的87%，还是降了不少。
Compared with the 87% before the accident, or a lot of reduction.
至少，把人从鬼门关拉回来了。
At least, it's pulling people back from the dead.
下午两点钟下班。
Leave work at 2: 00 p.m.
天气一转连日来的阴霾，温度也上升了。
The weather turned cloudy and the temperature rose.
沐浴在和煦的阳光下，众人来了兴致，在医院门口留下一张合影。
Bask in the genial sun, people came to interest, leaving a picture in front of the hospital.
吃过饭，易慧开始活跃，在小组微信群里说：“大家把我们今天那个阳光灿烂相片发群里哈。
After dinner, Yi Hui became very active and said in the group micro-letter group: "People take our sunny photos of Riha today.
”几张照片传过来。
"Several photographs came.
易慧身穿手术服，比划着大拇哥，大笑的嘴巴撑起口罩。
Yi Hui, wearing a surgical uniform, was wearing a big brother, laughing mouth held up a mask.
同伴在图下留言：看到阳光，我感觉自己活过来了。
Peer left a message in the picture: see the sun, I feel alive.
❻一张弥足珍贵的床位“妈妈，你什么时候回来呀？”“妈妈打完怪兽就回去了。
A priceless bed called "Mommy, when are you coming back?" "Mom hit the monster and went back.
”每天晚上八点钟，易慧和女儿、爱人通视频电话。
"At eight o'clock each evening, Yi Hui talked to her daughter and lover by video phone.
来武汉快十天了，她很快适应了非常时期的生活，但无法克服的心疾就是思念女儿。
Wuhan almost 10 days, she quickly adapted to the extraordinary period of life, but can not overcome the heart disease is missing her daughter.
孩子刚满4岁，正飞速成长。
The child has just turned 4 and is growing fast.
大年三十接到援鄂通知，易慧几个小时后就要出发。
New Year's 30 received a notice of support, Yi Hui will start in a few hours.
丈夫妇产科大夫，能够理解这个决定。
The husband, the obstetrician-gynaecologist, understands the decision.
在去机场的路上，易慧纠结了一路，不知该如何对父母说。
On the way to the airport, Yi Hui puzzled over how to tell his parents all the way.
在候机楼，她问同事，原来大家都向老人交代过。
In the terminal, she asked her colleague that everyone had told the old man.
她才拿起手机给老家拨电话。
She just picked up her cell phone and called home.
双亲皆为医疗系统退休职工，他们表示支持。
Both parents are retired employees of the health care system and they expressed their support.
唯独女儿，不太愿意接受。
Daughter is the only one who's reluctant to accept.
2月2日晚上通完话，易慧有些失落。
February 2 evening after the conversation, Yi Hui a little lost.
乖巧、懂事的女儿，明显不开心，想让妈妈回家。
The clever, clever daughter, obviously unhappy, wanted her mother home.
易慧心神不宁。
Yi Hui was distracted.
2月3日，她值凌晨1时到7时的后半夜班。
On 3 February, she was on duty from 1 a.m. to 7 a.m. in the second half of the night.
天气连续放晴两日，但又冷了。
The weather cleared for two days in succession, but it was cold again.
她十二点多出发去医院，途径高架桥边缘，桥上几乎没有车，路灯很亮，巨大暗影投向人行道。
She set out for the hospital at more than twelve o'clock, crossing the edge of the viaduct, where there were few cars, street lights were bright and huge shadows cast over the sidewalk.
几个人交流说，也不知道这波疫情，什么时候是个头。
Several people exchanged views and did not know when the outbreak was going to be.
就在2月2日下午，医生邹子俊值班，通知73床的家属熊志强，说病人已然奄奄一息。
On the afternoon of February 2, doctor Zou Zijun was on duty and told Xiong Zhiqiang, a 73-bed family member, that the patient was dying.
熊志强告诉邹医生，母亲恢复的很好，早上从医院接回家。
Zou Zhiqiang told Dr. Zou that his mother was well and had taken her home from the hospital in the morning.
没想到，晚上却收到父亲的噩耗。
I didn't expect to hear from my father at night.
“很遗憾，老爷子没挺过来，”当晚9时50分，邹医生宣告熊老爷子的死亡。
"Unfortunately, the man did not make it," said Dr. Zou at 9: 50 that night, announcing the death of Grandpa Bear.
据邹子俊回忆，熊志强没有责难，不停地说谢谢，谢谢十几天来的救助。
According to Zou Zijun recall, Xiong Zhiqiang did not censure, said repeatedly thank, thank you for ten days of rescue.
他说，老爷子在弥留之际，能遇到这么好的医生，是种缘分。
He said it was a kind of fate for him to meet such a good doctor when he died.
3日凌晨换班，邹子俊有些疲惫，他给易慧交接了一部分工作，以及讲了几个重点病人的情况。
3 early morning shift, Zou Zijun a bit tired, he gave Yi Hui a part of the transfer, and spoke about several key patients.
“那个，73床的老爷子，走了。
The 73-bed old man has gone.
”邹子俊最后说。
"said Zou Zijun finally.
“啊，”易慧回答说：“还是，走了啊。
"" Oh, "replied Yi Hui," still, let's go.
”73床还是走了。
"The bed was gone.
细究下来，大伯的病情肯定要插管。
On closer examination, my uncle's condition is sure to be intubated.
可惜武汉病人太多了，远远满足不了需求。
Unfortunately, Wuhan has too many patients, far from meeting the needs.
如果早期能通上呼吸机，将血氧饱和度提升到90%以上，那么治愈的概率会增加很多。
Early exposure to a ventilator that raises blood oxygen saturation to more than 90% increases the chance of a cure.
易慧再没见过熊志强。
Yi Hui has never seen Xiong Zhiqiang again.
根据2月3日民政部下发的殡葬业规定，疫情防控期间，应当简化丧事办理，不举办守灵、告别、祭奠等仪式。
According to the funeral service regulations issued by the Ministry of Civil Affairs on February 3, funerals should be simplified during the period of epidemic prevention and control.
此前，护士已经把0.5%过氧乙酸棉球，填塞进入患者口、鼻、耳等所有开放通道，留下的微创伤口作缝合处理，将其穿戴齐整，用双层布单包裹，装入双层胶袋中。
Previously, nurses had stuffed 0.5% peroxyacetic acid cotton pellets into all open passages of the patient's mouth, nose and ears, stitching and stitching the remaining minimally invasive wounds, wrapping them in a double-layered tissue paper bag.
然后，她架起紫外线灯管，对准病床照射半个小时。
She then set up an ultraviolet lamp and directed it at the hospital bed for half an hour.
拆除枕套、被套、床单，装进橙色口袋，用2000mg/L的氯擦拭床、柜子、呼叫铃、墙壁，再用紫外线灯照射半个小时。
Remove pillowcases, coverings, sheets, put them in orange pockets, clean beds, cabinets, call bells, and walls with 2,000 mg / L of chlorine, and use ultraviolet light for half an hour.
完结后，重新套上消过毒的白色枕套、被套、床单。
After the end, re-fitted with sterilized white pillowcase, bedding, sheets.
新冠时期的武汉，重症隔离区的一张床位弥足珍贵。
Wuhan during the New Grown Period, a bed in the intensive care area is precious.
在公众号后台回复彩蛋，送你一个彩蛋采访：刘君鹏、闫力元、龚柔善撰文：刘君鹏编辑：靳锦图片提供：刘君鹏、受访者供图运营编辑：二水。
In the background of the public answer egg, send you a color egg interview: Liu Junpeng, Yan Lian Yuan, Gong Xiaoshan Writing: Jin Junpeng Editor: Jin Junpeng: Liu Junpeng, interviewee for map operation editor: Ershui.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
抢救重症新冠病人。
To rescue patients with severe crowns.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "GQ报道";。
Var nickname = & quot; GQ report & quot;;
var msg_title = "抢救重症新冠病人";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 160; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "重症隔离区的一张床位弥足珍贵。
var msg _ desc = & quot; a bed in the intensive care unit is precious.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '[聊天记录]',。
Ritle: & apos; & # 91; & # 91; & # 93; & # 93; & # 93; & apos;
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
title: '六代人问易烊千玺：你快乐吗？叛逆吗？需要自己充话费吗？',。
At the turn of the century: Are you happy? Rebellious? Need your own charges? & amp; apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Are
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
title: '失序的日子里，疫区的普通人如何照常生活？',。
How did ordinary people in the affected area live at & nbsp; as usual at & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
var title ="GQ报道";。
var title = & quot; GQ report & quot;;
