1300万湖北慢性病患者背后的「药神」。
"Pharmacology" behind 13 million people with chronic diseases in Hubei Province.
丁畏、邢吟欢。
Ding Ding, Xing Yinghuan.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
文｜丁畏、邢吟欢胡迪在「舒利迭」的瓶身上，又画完了一个「正」字。
WwW. zIdiR. coM Article, Xing YingHudy In the bottle of "Shuli Die," another positive word has been painted.
那是儿子宁宁的救命药，每天吸一次，当画完第12个「正」字，这瓶药就空了。
It was his son Ningning's life-saving medicine. Once a day, when the 12th positive word was finished, the bottle was empty.
此处风光秀美，从院子里可以看见群山间云雾缭绕。
The scenery is beautiful and the hills can be seen in the courtyard.
在这个宁静小村里的每一天，胡迪都如坐针毡。
Every day in this quiet little village, Hoody was on the carpet.
「孩子的药得备够。
"The child has enough medicine.
」胡迪带着儿子宁宁回湖北老家过年前，医生特地嘱咐她。
"Before returning to her hometown of Hubei for the New Year with her son Ningning, the doctor specially instructed her.
宁宁5岁，患有过敏性哮喘，这是一种无法治愈，但可控的慢性病。
Ningning is 5 years old and suffers from allergic asthma, an incurable but controllable chronic disease.
经过了多年集中治疗，近半年来，宁宁的病情趋于稳定，只需要每日使用一种名为「舒利迭」的吸入剂，便不会发作。
After years of intensive care, Ningning's condition has stabilized over the past six months, with only one inhalant, called sullidide, required daily to prevent a seizure.
胡迪是细心的母亲，总是随身为宁宁带着吸入剂，算好使用次数，一瓶可以吸60次，能一直用到3月2日。
Hoody is a careful mother, always with Ning Ning inhaler, calculate the number of times, a bottle can absorb 60 times, can be used until March 2.
对于只打算回老家过个年的胡迪而言，这剂量是够的。
For Hoody, who only plans to return home for a year, the dose is enough.
但疫情来了，湖北首当其冲，老家村子封了，出不去，也进不来了。
But the outbreak came, Hubei bear the brunt of the disease, home village sealed, unable to get out, also can not enter.
对一般人来说，就地停留隔离已经够揪心了，但对儿子宁宁来说，则是性命攸关。
For ordinary people, on-site isolation is enough to seize the heart, but for his son Ningning, life is at stake.
哮喘是一种不发作则已，发作则颇为凶险的疾病。
Asthma is a disease that does not attack, but does occur rather sinister.
买不到药，一旦哮喘发作，也无法就医，宁宁的肺功能可能出现损伤，甚至出现呼吸骤停，危及生命。
Can not buy medicine, once asthma attack, also unable to see a doctor, Ningning lung function may be damaged, even breathing sudden stop, life-threatening.
宁宁的危机并不在少数。
There are many crises in Ningning.
仅湖北地区就有1300万慢性病患者，放眼全国，这个数字则高达3亿。
There are 13 million chronically ill people in Hubei province alone, compared with 300 million nationwide.
诸如癫痫、哮喘、糖尿病等许多原本可控的慢性病，在这个春天，遭到新旧疾病的双重威胁。
Many already controllable chronic diseases, such as epilepsy, asthma and diabetes, are threatened by both old and new diseases this spring.
他们因隔离、物流受阻或医疗资源紧张，消耗着最后的救命药，成为一个个无援的孤岛。
Isolated by isolation, logistical obstacles or strained medical resources, they consume life-saving drugs of last resort and become isolated islands without assistance.
「窄门」快关上了胡迪的老家在宜昌，三峡库区深山里的一座村庄。
"Narrow door" is closing Hoody's hometown in Yichang, a village in a deep mountain in the Three Gorges Reservoir area.
从宜昌市区出发，经过漫长的盘山公路才能抵达。
From Yichang District, after a long Pangshan Road to reach.
今年是胡迪第一次带宁宁回家，她想让孩子看看自己长大的地方，也和外公外婆多一些亲近。
This was the first time that she had brought Ningning home. She wanted her children to see where she had grown up and to get closer to her grandparents.
在做出这个谨慎的决定前，她还特地征得了医生的同意。
Before making this prudent decision, she sought the consent of her doctor.
宁宁的过敏性哮喘是出生后不久发现的，胡迪和丈夫为此耗尽心力，有时一周要带着孩子跑三次医院。
Ningning's allergic asthma was discovered shortly after birth, and Hoody and her husband ran out of energy, sometimes three times a week with their children.
在过去的几年里，她总是小心翼翼，如履薄冰。
For the past few years, she has been careful and tremulous.
作为一个母亲，看着孩子哮喘发作，无疑是一种沉痛的折磨。
As a mother, watching her child suffer from asthma attacks is a painful ordeal.
没发作时，宁宁和同龄的孩子一样，发作时，先是咳嗽，接着是更剧烈的咳嗽，他的呼吸道里会发出一种异样的声音，「像拖拉机一样」，它有一个专业术语——哮鸣音。
When he did not, Ningning, like a child of his age, coughed first and then more violently, making a strange sound in his respiratory tract, "like a tractor." It had a technical term - asthma.
然后是急促的呼吸，达到极高的频率。
Then came the rapid breathing, which reached a very high frequency.
「那个速度，连我数起来都觉得吃力。
"That's a speed that makes me struggle to count.
」胡迪说。
"said Hoody.
就像呼吸道被锁住了，只留下一道窄门。
It was like the airway was locked, leaving only a narrow door.
一个孩子生命所需的全部氧气，都只能从这道窄门里过。
All the oxygen a child needs to live can only pass through this narrow door.
最严重的一次，宁宁张着嘴大口呼吸、鼻翼扇动。
The most serious, Ningning mouth open mouth breathing, flapping nostrils.
周围都是空气，他却总是吸不够，直到嘴唇发紫，医学上对应这一症状的术语叫「紫绀」，是身体缺氧的提示。
There was air all around him, but he did not suck enough until his lips turned purple. The medical term for this symptom is cyanosis, a sign of hypoxia in the body.
经历过几次之后，胡迪对咳嗽、打喷嚏格外敏感。
After several experiences, Hoody is particularly sensitive to coughing and sneezing.
无论何时，宁宁的一声咳嗽，都会令她心里一紧，担心这是哮喘发作的前兆。
Whenever Ning Ning coughed, it would make her nervous, worried that it was a precursor to an asthma attack.
在病情还不稳定的时候，因为担心剧烈运动诱发哮喘，宁宁也失去了同龄孩子的一部分乐趣。
When the condition is unstable, Ningning loses some of its fun for children of the same age for fear that strenuous exercise might trigger asthma.
每每看见其他孩子追逐嬉戏时，宁宁也很想加入他们，但总会被母亲制止。
Often see other children chasing play, Ning Ning would like to join them, but will always be stopped by their mother.
「等你身体好了，我们再玩，好吗？」胡迪哄着儿子。
"When you're all right, let's play again, will you?" Hoody coaxed his son.
通常这时，宁宁都只能悻悻然低着头，发出一声「哦」。
Usually, Ning Ning can only angrily lower his head, issued a "Oh."
但下一次胡迪带着他路过小区游乐场时，宁宁仍会朝着嬉闹声的方向一直张望。
But the next time Hoody takes him past the playground, Ningning still looks in the direction of the frolicking sound.
如今，宁宁的病情总算是稳定了。
Now, Ningning's condition is finally stable.
胡迪想着，这次就让儿子玩得开心点吧。
Let my son have fun this time, he thought.
在村子里的几天，宁宁像是要补偿过去的不甘似的，整天和表兄妹们在长满浅草的荒地里追跑，上田埂上放鞭炮，好像急着把童年都补回来。
For a few days in the village, Ning Ning seemed to make up for his past reluctance, running all day with his cousins on the heath overgrown with shallow grass, and setting off firecrackers on the ridges of the fields, as if eager to make up for his childhood.
没想到，才过了没几天，疫情就爆发了。
Unexpectedly, just a few days later, the outbreak of the outbreak.
起初武汉封城，胡迪并没有太放在心上。
At first Wuhan closed the city, Hoody did not pay much attention to it.
直到他们所在的村子也被封了，她开始有些慌张。
She began to panic until their village, too, was closed.
每一天，眼看着剩余的药越来越少，胡迪感到，儿子呼吸道里那扇「窄门」，快要关上了。
Every day, as the remaining medicine dwindled down, Hoody felt that the narrow door in his son's respiratory tract was closing.
必须尽快想办法找到「舒利迭」，并想办法送进这个偏远的小村庄。
It is important to find a way to find the Shuli Districts and to find a way to send them to this small and remote village.
她开始动用一切可能的关系，寻求一切可能的渠道。
She began to use all possible connections, to seek all possible channels.
因为无法离开村庄，胡迪每天电话打个不停。
Unable to leave the village, Hoody made phone calls every day.
父母都是种了一辈子地的庄稼人，对外面的世界了解不多，母亲看着女儿那样焦心，自己却帮不上忙，也只好沉默，尽量不提、不问，担忧却写在脸上。
Parents are farmers who have lived their entire lives, who have little knowledge of the outside world, and whose mothers, anxious as their daughters are, are unable to help themselves.
一切与找药有关的电话，胡迪总是避着母亲，走到院子外拨打或接听。
In all calls related to the search for medicine, Hoody kept away from his mother and went outside to call or answer the phone.
在院子里玩耍的宁宁并不知道这一切，仍和其他孩子打闹着。
Ningning, who was playing in the yard, did not know all this and was still fighting with the other children.
胡迪看着活泼的儿子，突然觉得眼前一切显得有些不真实。
As he looked at his lively son, Hoody suddenly felt that something was amiss.
这一幅田园间其乐融融的场面，太过于脆弱，随时可能崩塌。
The scene between the fields was too fragile to collapse at any moment.
几天后，如果仍找不到药，宁宁就可能面临性命之虞。
A few days later, if no medicine is found, Ningning could be in danger of dying.
她又想起了急促的呼吸声和紫色的嘴唇。
She thought again of the rapid breathing and purple lips.
宁宁的困境，也是疫情下慢性病患者们的普遍困境。
The plight of Ningning is also the common plight of the chronically ill under the epidemic situation.
即便是城市里的患者，也往往一药难求。
Even among the urban sick, it is often difficult to obtain a pill.
独居武汉的一位70岁乳腺癌患者，用完了她的他莫昔芬片，那是一种白色的小药丸，用于抑制癌细胞生长。
A 70-year-old breast cancer patient living alone in Wuhan ran out of Tamoxifen, a small white pill used to inhibit cancer growth.
一位在孝感的脑梗患者断药已两个星期，一开始还能减少用量，从一天两次，到一天一次，再到隔天一次，到后来只剩两粒药，他舍不得吃，留着权作心里安慰。
A patient with a dutiful cerebral infarction had been weaned for two weeks, and at first he was able to reduce his dosage, from twice a day to once a day, and then the next day, until there were only two pills left.
患类风湿关节炎的老人，因为断药，已经开始出现「晨僵」症状，早晨醒来无法活动关节。
The elderly suffering from rheumatoid arthritis, because of medication, has begun to appear "morning stiffness" symptoms, waking up in the morning unable to move joints.
阿里健康还收到来自湖北地区1000名以上肝炎患者的求助，因为断药，暴露在病毒全面反弹的风险里。
Ali Health also received help from more than 1,000 hepatitis patients in Hubei province, who were exposed to the risk of a full-blown viral rebound because of a drug cut-off.
而他们还只是湖北慢性病患者的冰山一角。
And they are just the tip of the iceberg for chronic diseases in Hubei.
有一群人，可是要天天上医院的当外界注意到这些「孤岛」时，情况已非常危急了。
There was a group of people who had to go to the hospital every day and when the "islands" came to the attention of the outside world, the situation was critical.
随着断药的逼近，上社交媒体求救的慢性病患者越来越多。
As the drug cuts approach, more and more chronically ill people are turning to social media for help.
「我在湖北，父亲慢阻肺，家里的常备药马上就吃完，药店没货医院不敢去，我要急疯了！」「父亲直肠癌晚期，因为疫情无法去医院开药，现在疼痛难忍，我该怎么帮助他？」「外婆患有糖尿病，村里书记去药店没买到瑞格列奈片，已经断药了，怎么办？急！急！急！」「有谁知道哪家药店有卖替米沙坦片的吗？我爸爸糖尿病患者，药已经用完很多天了，有这方面消息的朋友吗？拜托了！」众多患者上网反映断药情况沉在水面下的冰山部分，很快被站在最前方的瞭望者发现。
"I was in Hubei Province, my father slowly blocked his lungs, and the pharmacy was running out of medicine. I was afraid to go to the hospital." "How can I help my father with advanced rectal cancer?
远在杭州的亭净，对疫情的消息比多数人要敏感。
As far away as Ting Jing in Hangzhou, the news of the outbreak is more sensitive than that of most people.
这位前医生，现在是阿里健康的运营专家，她开玩笑地说，「掌管着中国最大的线上医疗平台。
The former doctor, now Ali's health care specialist, jokingly said, "controls the largest online medical platform in China."
」看着当年的同学和前同事们，纷纷赶赴武汉支援抗疫一线，在后方的亭净也按捺不住，决定做点什么。
"Looking at the students and former colleagues, rushed to Wuhan to support the first line of the epidemic, in the back of the kiosk can not restrain, decided to do something.
疫情发生后不久，她就连夜发动同事在线工作，推出了「免费线上问诊平台」，招募全国医疗专家，在线为病人进行初步问诊，以分流线下医院的压力。
Soon after the outbreak, she launched her colleagues' online work overnight, launching a "free online consultation platform" to recruit medical experts across the country to conduct on-line initial consultations for patients in order to divert pressure from the off-line hospitals.
几天后，全国就有超过200万人因得到在线问诊，避免了在医院可能的交叉感染。
In a few days, more than 2 million people across the country were treated online, avoiding possible cross-infections in hospitals.
2月初，在这个问诊平台上，亭净注意到了一个新现象，许多病人找医生并不是为了问诊，而是想通过医生买药。
In early February, on this consultation platform, Trinket noticed a new phenomenon, in which many patients did not seek medical treatment but wanted to buy medicine through their doctors.
阿里健康平台上，一位互联网医生正在家里为慢病患者看诊真正让亭净感到触动的，是她在平台信息上发现，有人正在找胰岛素。
On Ali's health platform, an internet doctor at home visiting patients with chronic diseases really struck Kiu-jin when she discovered on the platform that someone was looking for insulin.
这是一种需要冷链运输的药物，疫情期间交通管制，胰岛素的短缺并不奇怪。
It's a cold-chain drug, and during epidemics traffic control, insulin shortages are not surprising.
但这个信息却在亭净脑中如警钟一响。
But the message was a wake-up call in the kiosk's head.
因为胰岛素是晚期糖尿病患者的日常用药，每天都得注射，一旦停药可能导致生命危险。
Because insulin is a daily medication for people with advanced diabetes, injections are given daily and can be life-threatening if discontinued.
这是一个危机的信号。
This is a sign of crisis.
「所有人的注意力都在新冠肺炎身上，但人们却忘了，有一群人天天都要去医院的。
"All eyes are on pneumonia, but people forget that there is a group of people who go to the hospital every day.
」亭净说。
"said Trinket.
「您的药，找到了」几乎是出于医生的本能，她立刻在线上召集分散全国的伙伴们开会：「我们需要马上开启一个找药行动。
"Your medicine was found," almost out of a doctor's instinct, and she immediately convened a meeting of her dispersed partners online: "We need to start a drug-seeking operation right away.
」各组人员分头行动，把电话打得滚烫，超过50家全国知名药企收到了这场援助行动的消息，阿里健康随即推出面向全国的「慢病福利计划」，利用平台的信息资源，与五十多家合作的药企一起为全国的慢性病患者找药。
More than 50 well-known pharmaceutical companies across the country received news of the operation, and Ali Health launched a nationwide Chronic Disease Benefit Scheme, using the platform's information resources to work with more than 50 collaborating pharmaceutical companies to find medicine for chronic diseases across the country.
原本在阿里健康负责品控的小二高健，自愿承担起了客服的任务。
Originally responsible for the quality control of Ali's health in Xiaogao Jian, volunteered to assume the task of customer service.
在找药行动的最初阶段，由于支援活动刚刚启动，全湖北慢病求助者的药，都只能靠高健「人肉」去找。
In the early stages of the drug-seeking operation, as the support activities had just started, all the patients with chronic diseases in Hubei Province had to rely on high-quality "human flesh."
阿里健康小二高健在家中办公，通过互联网为慢病患者找药她先从APP后台导出找药信息，包括患者基本情况、需要的药量、剩余的药量等。
Ali's Health Junior 2 worked from home, using the Internet to find medicine for chronic patients. She first derived drug information from the APP background, including the patient's basic situation, the amount of medicine needed, the amount of medicine remaining.
「大概三分之一的人已经没药了，或者剩着最后一点舍不得吃，其他人的药量也只有几天，最多不超过十天。
"About one-third of the population is myrrh, or has a last drop to spare, and the rest is only a few days old, not more than ten days.
」之后，她再把这些信息汇总，发到合作药企的沟通群，由药企找药并安排物流。
"She then compiled the information and sent it to a consortium of pharmaceutical companies to find medicines and arrange logistics.
当药企也无法提供所需药品时，高健就只能靠自己了。
When pharmaceutical companies are unable to provide the medicines they need, Gao Jian has to fend for himself.
有时，她用以往在药业内的人脉去找药；有时，她也用「笨办法」，打开自己的手机，在天猫上的药商一家一家地搜。
Sometimes she used her old connections with the pharmaceutical industry to find medicine; sometimes she used "stupid methods" to turn on her cell phone and search every drug dealer on the cat.
她的电脑桌面堆满了登记患者信息的Excel表格，每天打上百个电话，联系平台商家或合作伙伴。
Her desktop is filled with Excel forms for registering patients, making hundreds of calls a day to contact Platform vendors or partners.
但即便她使出了浑身解数，也无法满足所有人，因为平台上的需求早已爆棚。
But even if she did her best, she would not be able to satisfy everyone, because the demand on the platform had already been exhausted.
一天早上，高健照例从后台导出求助信息，她看了一眼都懵了。
One morning, Gao Jian routinely exported help messages from the background and she was stunned.
「当日求助量已接近一千。
"The number of calls reached nearly one thousand.
」这也意味着，高健的「人肉」找药模式不可持续了。
This also means that the high-quality "human flesh" drug-seeking model is not sustainable.
好在阿里健康的程序员们耗了三天三夜，迅速开发出了一套「找药精灵」程序，卸下了高健身上的重担。
Fortunately, it took Ali's healthy programmers three days and three nights to develop a "drug wizard" program that takes the burden off their high fitness.
「找药精灵」在技术上打通了阿里健康和钉钉，只要患者在阿里健康完成缺药登记，这些信息立即就会「跳进」商家群，然后，来自武汉湖北及全国各地的药商便会主动认领。
As soon as the patient completes the registration of his drug deficiency in Ali's health, the information "jumps" into the business community and is then claimed by pharmacists from Hubei, Wuhan, and throughout the country.
阿里健康平台上为药品进行最后确认的复核包装员同时，在湖北断药患者的钉钉群里，一个智能AI会不断带来一些令人振奋的好消息：「XX，您的药找到了」、「XX，您的药已发货」。
At the same time, a smart AI in Hubei province, where patients with drug-related problems are suffering from nailing, will continue to bring some exciting news: "XX, your medicine has been found," "XX, your medicine has been shipped."
「它是一种人文关怀。
"It is a kind of humane care.
」负责开发的产品经理说。
"said the product manager in charge of development.
即便找到的不是自己的药，患者也会为他人感到开心，为陌生的病友发去祝福或鼓励。
Even if they do not find their own medicine, patients will feel happy for others, for strangers to bless or encourage.
被困在宜昌农村的胡迪也是在这个时候，偶然在阿里健康上做了缺药登记。
Hoody, trapped in the countryside of Yichang, also happened to be in Ali's health at the time of registration for drug deficiency.
在此之前，她已经尝试过各种办法，也用尽了能想到的一切关系，但仍无所获。
She had tried every means before, and had exhausted every possible connection she could think of, but nothing had been achieved.
她每天埋头抱着手机刷资讯，任何关于找药的只言片语，都会被她像救命稻草一样抓住。
Every day, she would hold her mobile phone brush information, any word about looking for medicine, she will be like a lifesaver.
她也试过一些电商，药倒是找到了，但卖家一听是湖北，还是偏远的山村里，便坦言发不了货。
She also tried some electric business, the medicine is found, but the seller is listening to Hubei, or remote mountain village, confessed that it can not send goods.
她只能死马当活马医，在各种找药平台上留下自己的信息。
She could do nothing but sit tight and leave her message on the various drug-seeking platforms.
胡迪自己也没想到，其中偶然的一次登记，改变了宁宁的命运。
Hoody himself did not expect that one of the accidental registration, changed the fate of Ning Ning.
接力，送过去积累了十多天的找药经验后，阿里健康的小二们意识到，其实真找不到的药很少，大多数药都卡在物流环节。
Relay, the past accumulated more than 10 days of drug experience, Ali's healthy second class realized that in fact there are very few drugs, most of them stuck in the logistics chain.
一位阿里健康小二自愿前往孝感送药宁宁的父亲远在杭州，他曾想尽办法弄到了「舒利迭」，却苦于物流不畅，无法寄出。
A healthy young Ali who volunteered to send medicine to Ningning's father is far away in Hangzhou. He tried his best to get the "Shuli Die", but he suffered from poor logistics and could not send it out.
他跑遍了附近所有的快递网点，所有人都告诉他「湖北寄不了」。
He traveled all over the neighborhood express delivery network and everyone told him "Hubei can't send it."
这位焦急的父亲在一个顺丰网点哀求了许久，得到的回复是：「东西可以给你收下，但不保证什么时候可以送到。
The anxious father begged for a long time at a Shun Fung site and was told, "You can have it, but there is no guarantee that it will be delivered.
」他想了想，把药留在了自己身上。
"He thought for a moment and left the medicine on himself.
因为他做好了打算，如果实在没办法，就自己开车一路硬闯，从杭州把药送到宜昌。
Because he was planning to take the medicine to Yichang from Hangzhou if he had no choice but to drive all the way.
只要孩子能活，他愿意付出任何代价。
As long as the child can live, he is willing to pay any price.
那天胡迪走出院子跟丈夫通电话，「我感觉他都要哭了，还是一直忍着。
That day Hoody walked out of the yard to talk to her husband on the phone.
」打通物流的压力还是落在了亭净的身上，和快递公司沟通得多了，她的脑中有了一张湖北省交通地图，上面大片大片都是红色，意味着物流进不去的地方。
The pressure to unblock logistics still falls on Kiu Jing, who communicates much more with express delivery companies, with a map of Hubei province showing huge swaths of red, meaning inaccessible logistics.
经过多方辗转，亭净找到了在湖北通行权限最高的EMS。
After many toss and turn, Pavilion net found in Hubei traffic authority the highest EMS.
当湖北的城市和乡村都还处于封锁状态时，EMS几乎可以通行所有地方。
While the cities and villages of Hubei are still closed, the EMS can travel almost everywhere.
一名志愿者用私家车为患者送药，湖北地区许多药都是由当地志愿者完成「最后一公里」新的问题又出现了，大部分阿里健康的合作药商，与EMS没有协议，无法通过其发货。
A private car was used by a volunteer to deliver medicine to patients. Many drugs in Hubei province were returned by local volunteers to complete the "final kilometre" problem. Most of Ali's healthy cooperators did not have an agreement with EMS to deliver the drugs through them.
为此，阿里健康的小二们只能采取一个折中办法：先用其他快递把药发到武汉，再在武汉当地找到一家与EMS有协议的药企转寄。
For this reason, Ali's healthy second-in-law can only take a compromise: send the medicine to Wuhan by other express delivery, and then find a local EMS agreement with the drug transfer.
承担这项中转任务的，是一位名叫夕木的志愿者，当她在阿里健康的朋友羲禾找她帮忙时，她当即就答应下来。
The transfer was carried out by a volunteer named Xi Muk, who responded to Ali's healthy friend, Xi He, as soon as she asked her for help.
夕木要做的事，是收下所有从外地寄过来的药，将它们带去附近的邮局，通过EMS寄往湖北境内的各个市县、乡镇、山村。
The idea was to take all the medicine from other places, take it to the nearby post office and send it to the cities, towns and villages in Hubei province by EMS.
到目前为止，她已经为超过1000名慢性病断药患者寄去了药。
So far, she has sent medicine to more than 1,000 chronically ill patients.
起初，夕木还能开车出门，后来由于私家车禁行政策，她只能徒步从家走到邮局。
At first, the tree was able to drive out, but because of the private car ban, she had to walk from home to the post office.
来回要走上一个小时。
It's an hour's walk back and forth.
她尽量保证每天只出门一次，攒够几十个包裹就去一趟邮局。
She tried to make sure that she only went out once a day and saved enough for dozens of parcels to go to the post office.
夕木家里还有个12岁的女儿。
There's a 12-year-old daughter at my house.
每次寄药回来，夕木都会把鞋放在阳台通风，再将全身衣服换下，消毒、清洗。
Each time send medicine back, the sunset will put shoes on the balcony ventilation, and then change the whole body clothes, disinfection, cleaning.
然后给自己洗个澡，往所有触摸过的地方喷撒酒精，撕掉出发前裹在手机上的保鲜膜。
Then bathe yourself, spray alcohol in all the places you touch, and tear off the plastic wrap that was wrapped around your mobile phone before you leave.
女儿知道她正在做的事情。
Daughter knows what she's doing.
母女俩在一起时，女儿会频繁地摸夕木的额头，确认她没有发烧，然后松一口气。
When the mother and daughter were together, the daughter would frequently touch her forehead to make sure that she did not have a fever and then breathe a sigh of relief.
这天，夕木收到了两瓶「舒利迭」，她赶在中午前将药带到邮局寄出，然后给收件人发去了一条信息。
One day, the tree received two bottles of "Shuli Die," she took the medicine to the post office before noon, and then sent a message to the recipient.
对方，正是故事开头的胡迪。
The other side, is the story of the beginning of Hoody.
在仓库里等待寄给慢性病患者的药，每一个包裹都是一个希望赶在最后一滴药前，到了在宜昌深山中急得五内俱焚的胡迪，收到了一条信息：「药已寄出，请注意查收。
Waiting in the warehouse for the medicine to be sent to the chronically ill, each package is a message sent to Hu Di, who is desperate to catch the last drop of medicine in the deep mountains of Yichang.
」紧绷了一个月的心终于稍稍松弛了些，但药没拿到手，胡迪的心还是悬着。
"After a month of tension, the heart relaxed a little, but the medicine did not reach him, and Hoody's heart was still hanging.
又过了几天，胡迪心心念念的「舒利迭」终于到达了镇上，由镇卫生院的医生送到了村的卫生所。
A few days later, Hoody's thoughtful "Shuli Dian" finally arrived in town, the town hospital doctors sent to the village health clinic.
在村卫生所里，胡迪见到了镇上来的医生，对方拿出药时还不忘说笑：「听说你这个药搞得很不容易啊。
At the village clinic, Hoody met the town doctor and said, "I heard it wasn't easy."
」胡迪顾不得体面，现场用力撕开包裹。
"Hoody couldn't be decent enough to tear the package apart.
当看到那个熟悉的小瓶子时，她知道，宁宁有救了。
When she saw the familiar little bottle, she knew that Ningning would be saved.
这位紧张了大半个月的母亲，忍不住喊了一声「耶」。
The mother, who had been nervous for half a month, couldn't help crying out "Yeah."
这天是3月1日。
It was March 1.
药瓶上的最后一个「正」字，正好还差最后一笔。
The last positive word on the bottle, just short of the last one.
就在胡迪收到药的同时，在阿里健康上登记药品需求的用户已遍及湖北全境，大多来自当地乡镇。
Just as Mr. Hoody received the medicine, the demand for medicines registered on Ali's health has spread across Hubei, mostly from local townships.
其中慢病用药需求占比高达87%。
The proportion of chronic drug demand was as high as 87%.
到目前为止，已为半数以上的登记用户送出亟需药品。
To date, over half of the registered users have received urgently needed medicines.
阿里健康一名小二打通重重关卡为孝感当地慢病患者送药现场在武汉市蔡甸区张湾街道的一个村庄里，患强制性脊柱炎的中年人不再缺药，孝感一名患肺癌老人在重庆找到需要的靶向药，黄冈罗平县的心脏病患者不再为「保命丸」忧心。
An elderly man suffering from lung cancer in Chongqing is no longer worried about life-saving pills. A young man suffering from lung cancer in Chongqing has found the needed targeted medication in a village along the Zhangwan Street, Cai Den district, Wuhan.
在全国，数万名慢病患者也陆续通过阿里健康平台解除他们的断药危机，被封锁在浙江台州乡下的大三阳患者不再恐惧病情恶化，远在更远的北方，救急药也正从哈尔滨运往冰雪封冻的东北乡下。
Tens of thousands of slow-onset patients across the country have also been relieved of their medication crisis through the Ali health platform, and patients in Dayangyang, locked off in Taizhou, Zhejiang Province, are no longer afraid of worsening conditions. Far north, emergency drugs are being shipped from Harbin to the frozen northeast countryside.
胡迪回到家时，母亲正在厨房做饭，胡迪悄悄走了进去，轻轻喊了一声：「妈，药找到了。
When Hoody got home, while his mother was cooking in the kitchen, Hoody crept in and yelled softly, "Mom, the medicine has been found.
」老人先是一怔，随即慌乱地在灰褐色的围裙上揩手，不知道该如何庆祝，胡迪看到母亲：「脸都笑得开了。
"The old man was in a trance, then wiped his hands in a beige apron, not knowing how to celebrate.
」院子里，宁宁正在玩耍，胡迪站在一旁静静看了一会，唤了他一声。
"In the yard, Ningning was playing. Hoody stood by and looked at him silently for a moment, calling him.
宁宁看见她回来了，喊了一声「妈妈」，便小跑着冲来扑在胡迪怀里。
Ningning saw her come back, called out a "mother", then trotted up and down in Hoody's arms.
胡迪把孩子抱起来，稍微使些劲搂在怀里，头放孩子的一边肩膀上。
Hoody took the child up, put some strength in his arms, and put his head on one shoulder.
在宁宁眼里，这又是乡村生活中无忧而快乐的一天。
In the eyes of Ningning, it was a happy and secure day in country life.
或许等他长大后，母亲会向他解释，这一天的背后，有那么多来自远方的善意。
Perhaps when he grew up, his mother would explain to him that behind the day there was so much goodwill from afar.
（文中胡迪、夕木为化名）没看够？长按二维码关注《人物》微信公号更多精彩的故事在等着你。
(In the text, Hu Di, Xi Mu for alias) did not see enough? Long two-dimensional attention to "People" micro-letter number more wonderful story waiting for you.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
1300万湖北慢性病患者背后的「药神」。
"Pharmacology" behind 13 million people with chronic diseases in Hubei Province.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "1300万湖北慢性病患者背后的「药神」";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "断药者就像孤岛，远方的善意让他们再度连接。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Outpatients are like islands, reconnected by distant goodwill.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
