新冠病毒境外感染人数破万，世卫组织为何还不宣布“大流行”？。
Why hasn't the WHO declared a "pandemic" when the number of people infected outside the New Crown Virus has exploded?
杨大可、孙滔。
Yang Daoke, Sun Tao.
DeepTech深科技                      。
Deep Technology DeepTech.
DeepTech深科技。
Deep Technology DeepTech.
DeepTech是一家关注新兴科技产业化的全链条内容、服务、数据和投融资平台，致力于构建一个全球科技创新合作网络。
DeepTech is a whole chain of content, services, data, and investment and financing platforms that focus on the industrialization of emerging technologies, and is committed to building a global science, technology, and innovation collaborative network.
。
.
随着新冠病毒在世界范围内快速传播，全球大流行的趋势似乎无可避免。
With the rapid spread of the new crown virus around the world, a global pandemic seems inevitable.
但在要不要宣布全球大流行的问题上，依然存在两极的看法。
But there is still a bipolar view of whether to declare a global pandemic.
日内瓦当地时间 3 月 3 日，世界卫生组织对外发布了最新一期新型冠状病毒肺炎情况发展的每日报告。
The World Health Organization (WHO) released its daily report on the latest development of coronavirus pneumonia on March 3, Geneva time.
截至欧洲中部时间 3 月 3 日上午 10 时，在中国境外共有 72 个国家（前日为 64 个）确诊新冠肺炎 10,566 例，死亡共计 166 例。
As of 10 a.m. on March 3, Central Europe time, 10,566 new cases of pneumonia and 166 deaths had been diagnosed in 72 countries outside China (64 the day before).
与前一日的报告相比，中国境外新增确诊病例 1,792 例，新增死亡 38 例。
Compared with the previous day's report, 1,792 new cases and 38 new deaths were confirmed outside China.
世卫组织总干事谭德塞在例行发布会上表示，中国新冠肺炎新增病例数持续下降，在过去 24 小时内，中国报告了 119 例新增病例，这是自 1 月 20 日以来的最低新增数。
The number of new cases of pneumonia in China has continued to decline, with 119 new cases reported in China in the past 24 hours, the lowest increase since January 20, WHO Director-General Theresa Tanner said at a regular news conference.
而中国境外新增病例数已是中国境内新增病例数的 15 倍。
The number of new cases outside China is already 15 times the number of new cases in China.
其中，韩国、意大利、伊朗和日本 4 个国家的情况最令人担忧，尤其是境外确诊病例有 80% 是来自韩国、伊朗和意大利 3 个国家的。
Of these, four countries - South Korea, Italy, Iran, and Japan - are the most worrisome, especially with 80% of confirmed cases abroad coming from three countries: South Korea, Iran, and Italy.
图 | 新冠病毒疫情图（来源：WHO）截至本文撰写之时，世卫组织官网统计全球确诊病例已达 91,783 例，全球总死亡病例数为 3,123 人。
At the time of writing, WHO has recorded 91,783 confirmed cases globally and 3,123 globally.
从上述地图也可以看出，目前出现疫情的国家已经遍布五大洲，只有南极洲幸免。
As can be seen from the above-mentioned map, only Antarctica has been spared from the current epidemic, which has spread across five continents.
百年一遇的“大流行”？随着 WHO 获得更多数据，现已越来越了解这种病毒及其引起的疾病。
The once-in-a-century "pandemic"? As WHO gets more data, there is a growing understanding of the virus and the diseases it causes.
谭德塞表示，新冠病毒既不是 SARS，也不是 MERS，更不是流感；它是具有独特特征的新型病毒。
The virus is neither SARS nor MERS nor flu; it is a novel virus with unique characteristics, says Mr Tanner.
新冠病毒和流行性感冒都会引起呼吸道疾病，并通过相似的渠道传播。
Both the new crown virus and the influenza cause respiratory illnesses and are transmitted through similar channels.
但是，新冠疫情与流感之间有几点重要区别。
But there are several important differences between the new crown outbreak and the flu.
首先，根据目前的数据，新型冠状病毒的传播效率不如流感。
First, according to current data, the new coronavirus is not as effective as influenza.
因为流行性感冒的传播主要是源自受感染但尚未患病的人，而新冠病毒似乎并非如此。
Because the spread of influenza comes mainly from infected but uninfected people, the new crown virus does not seem to be so.
根据目前数据显示，只有 1％ 的上报病例为“无症状患者”，而且大多数病例在 2 天内都有症状出现。
According to current data, only 1 per cent of reported cases are asymptomatic, and most cases show symptoms within two days.
但要注意，新冠病毒导致的疾病比季节性流感更为严重，因为它是一种新病毒，没有人对此具有免疫力，而全球有许多人已建立了对季节性流感病毒株的免疫力。
Note, however, that Crested Virus causes more serious illnesses than seasonal influenza because it is a new virus for which no one is immune, and many people around the world have built up immunity to seasonal influenza strains.
而且，人们拥有针对季节性流感的疫苗和治疗药物。
Moreover, people have vaccines and treatments for seasonal influenza.
但对于新冠病毒来说，目前既没有疫苗，也没有针对该病毒的特异性治疗方法，所以人们要提高警惕。
But for the new crown virus, there is neither a vaccine nor a specific treatment for the virus, so people need to be vigilant.
目前有很多国家都在进行治疗药物的临床试验，并且已有 20 多种疫苗正在研发之中。
Clinical trials of therapeutic drugs are under way in many countries, and more than 20 vaccines are under development.
最后，WHO 从来没有讨论过对季节性流感的控制，因为那是不可能的。
Finally, the WHO has never discussed seasonal flu control because it is impossible.
但对新冠病毒来说，遏制其传播是可能的。
But for the new Crown virus, it is possible to contain its spread.
因此，各国应该针对新冠病毒进行接触者追踪，这样可以防止感染并挽救生命。
Countries should therefore track those who come into contact with the new crown virus, which can prevent infection and save lives.
图 | 世卫组织总干事谭德塞，3 月 3 日也是他的生日，发布会上他表示收到了来自非洲刚果的礼物——连续两周没有上报的埃博拉病例，并且目前没有患者接受治疗；但他也说道“另一场战争变得越来越复杂。
WHAT & # 160; & # 45; Director-General of WHO, Roger Tanner, who was also at his birthday on March 3, said he received gifts from Congo Africa - two weeks of unreported Ebola cases and no patients being treated, but said "another war is getting more complicated."
”（来源：Twitter/WHO）随着新冠病毒确诊病例在亚洲、中东和欧洲的不断蔓延，越来越多的人在关注此次疫情是不是正在扩大其影响，变为一种新的在全球广泛传播的“大流行”传染病。
(Source: Twitter / WHO) As new cases of Crested Virus are spreading across Asia, the Middle East, and Europe, there is growing concern that the epidemic is spreading its reach into a new, "pandemic" pandemic that is spreading around the world.
在美国，虽然目前累计新冠肺炎确诊病例刚超过 100 例，并有 9 例死亡。
In the United States, there are just over 100 confirmed cases of new crown pneumonia and 9 deaths.
但其食品药品管理局（FDA）的前任负责人 Scott Gottlieb 博士对媒体表示，美国可能有“几百或几千个”新冠肺炎病例尚未被确诊上报，至少有两个州、甚至是四个州正在发生“社区传播”。
But Dr. Scott Gottlieb, a former head of its Food and Drug Administration, told reporters there could be "hundreds or thousands" of new cases of pneumonia in the United States that have yet to be reported, and that "community transmission" is occurring in at least two or even four states.
比尔·盖茨在 2 月 28 日发表言论，认为新冠病毒可能是百年一遇的“大流行”疫情；但世卫组织显然对是否使用“大流行”来定义新型冠状病毒考虑得更为谨慎。
Bill Gates spoke on Feb. 28, saying the new strain could be a once-in-a-century pandemic, but the WHO is clearly more cautious about using a pandemic to define the new coronavirus.
2 月 28 日世卫组织总干事谭德塞在媒体例行会上宣布，WHO 将新冠肺炎疫情的全球风险级别从“高风险”提高至“非常高”；但并没有决定使用 "大流行" 来描述该疫情。
WHO raised the global risk level for the outbreak from "high risk" to "very high"; but did not decide to use & quot; pandemic & quot; to describe the outbreak, WHO announced at a regular press conference on February 28.
或许在意的问题就在于：在众多国家已经采取了相应控制疫情发展、保护公众卫生安全的措施之时，宣布“大流行”这一动作，一方面有助于全球范围内启动更多的紧急行动计划，但另一方面给民众的日常生活或许也会带来更为严重的破坏。
Perhaps the problem is that, at a time when many countries have taken steps to contain the epidemic and protect public health and safety, declaring a pandemic would help to launch more emergency operations around the world, but would probably do more damage to people's daily lives.
（来源：Twitter/WHO）何为“大流行”病？“大流行”病的说法本身就足够引起人们的警惕，甚至恐慌。
(Source: Twitter / WHO) What is a pandemic? The very notion of a pandemic is enough to cause alarm, even panic.
该说法一定程度上源于不同的英文单词对疫情发展程度的不同层级描述。
This is partly due to the different levels at which different English words describe the degree of progression of the epidemic.
通常，对疫情的爆发描述有三个英文单词：outbreak、epidemic 和 pandemic，某种疾病暴发初期，也就是使用“epidemic”发生之前会使用“outbreak”来表示“病例的突然增加”，其影响范围可能从单个社区扩展至几个国家，但规模比 epidemic 要小得多。
Typically, outbreaks are described in three English words: outbreak, epidemic, and pandemic. In the early days of an outbreak, "outbreak" is used to denote a "sudden increase in cases," which may extend from a single community to a few countries, but on a much smaller scale than epidem.
当一种传染性疾病会快速传播给许多人时，就会被称为“epidemic”。
When an infectious disease spreads quickly to a large number of people, it is called epidemic.
而如果该疾病没有被控制住，还在不断地蔓延，公共卫生人员就可能考虑将其称为“pandemic”，也就是大流行，意思是这种流行病已经影响到世界不同地区足够多的人，达到了全球性暴发的程度。
And if the disease is not contained and continues to spread, public health personnel may consider calling it a pandemic, meaning that the epidemic has affected enough people in different parts of the world to reach global proportions.
这也意味着，当疫情被称为 pandemic 时起，感染的人数、导致的死亡数，以及其对社会和经济造成的影响将是最为广泛的。
It also means that when the epidemic is called pandemic, the number of people infected, the number of deaths caused, and the social and economic impact will be the most widespread.
美国对外关系委员会全球健康高级研究员黄严忠告诉 DeepTech，实际上大流行这个定义本身是很模糊的，持续的、大规模的、世界范围内的传染病流行，就可以说是大流行。
Indeed, the definition of pandemic itself is vague, and a persistent, large-scale, worldwide epidemic can be described as a pandemic, Huang Yan-chung, senior researcher on global health at the United States Council on Foreign Relations, told DeepTech.
“其操作有一定的弹性。
"There is a degree of flexibility in its operation.
”历史上，1918 年到 1919 年间的“西班牙流感”就属于大流行，其在全球范围内导致了 2000 万至 4000 万人丧生。
Historically, the Spanish flu pandemic from 1918 to 1919 killed between 20 million and 40 million people worldwide.
而时间距离我们最近的，是 2009 年的甲型 H1N1 流感，也是自 2005 年《国际卫生条例》实施以来首起“国际关注的突发公共卫生事件（PHEIC）”。
The closest we have been to H1N1 influenza in 2009, the first "public health emergency of international concern" since the International Health Regulations came into force in 2005.
据美国 CDC 估计，截至 2010 年 3 月中旬，当时的甲型 H1N1 流感疫情疫情导致 5,900 万美国人染病，26.5 万人住院，1.2 万人死亡。
The United States CDC estimated that, as of mid-March 2010, the then influenza A (H1N1) epidemic had affected 59 million Americans, 265,000 hospitalized and 12,000 dead.
此外，全球范围内确诊出甲型 H1N1 流感病例的国家（及地区）的数目为 186 个，出现死亡病例的国家（及地区）有 72 个（数据更新于 2020 年 1 月）。
In addition, the number of countries (and territories) with a global diagnosis of influenza A (H1N1) is 186, and the number of countries (and territories) with deaths is 72 (data updated in January 2020).
图 | 截至 2009 年 7 月 31 日受影响国家和死亡人数地图（来源：WHO）说回此次疫情，目前新冠肺炎的确诊病例在全球范围内已超过 9 万例，涉及近 80 多个国家，与 2009 年甲型 H1N1 流感疫情的规模相比还相距较远。
Figure # 124; Map of affected countries and deaths as at 31 July 2009 (source: WHO): Back to the epidemic, there are now more than 90,000 confirmed cases of New Crown Pneumonia worldwide, involving nearly 80 countries, far from the scale of the 2009 influenza A (H1N1) epidemic.
但有媒体表示，根据 2010 年世卫组织网站上对大流行疾病的“技术标准”：一种新型病毒感染，大多数人没有免疫力，并且在世界各地出现并传播。
But according to media reports, according to the 2010 "technical standard" for pandemic diseases on the WHO website: a new type of infection, most people have no immunity and appear and spread around the world.
相较于普通流感，大流行病在某些方面看起来与之类似，但有其他可能完全不同的特征，比如季节性流感和大流行流感均可在全年龄段引起感染，大多数情况下会导致自限性疾病，患者无需治疗即可完全康复。
Pandemic diseases may look similar in some respects to ordinary influenza, but there are other characteristics that may be completely different, such as seasonal influenza and pandemic influenza, which can cause infections in all age groups, in most cases leading to self-limited diseases and full recovery without treatment.
但是，“大流行”的重症病例患者的比例可能会更大，并且持续时间不会有季节性，甚至在夏季也有暴发疫情的可能。
However, the proportion of severe cases of a "pandemic" is likely to be higher and will not be seasonal in duration, with outbreaks even likely in summer.
实际上， 2010 年这个“技术标准”的颁布，就和 2009 年世卫组织将甲型 H1N1 流感宣布为大流行病有着千丝万缕的关系。
Indeed, the promulgation of the "technical standard" in 2010 is inextricably linked to the declaration of influenza A (H1N1) as a pandemic by WHO in 2009.
在世卫组织宣布甲型流感为大流行病之后，导致了当时大量资源在短时间内都集中投入到疫苗研发之中，但该疾病在后来被证明其实影响有限，这让许多人诟病世卫组织反应“过激”了。
Following the WHO's declaration of influenza A as a pandemic, which led to a brief concentration of resources on vaccine development, the disease later proved to be of limited impact, leading many to criticize the WHO's "overreaction."
“2009年的时候围堵一个病死率比流感还要低的病毒，在某种程度上可说是一个笑话。
"It was a joke in 2009 to contain a virus with a lower death rate than the flu.
”黄严忠认为，那一次宣布为大流行让大家人心惶惶，耗费了大量的资源。
Huang believed that the announcement of the pandemic had alarmed everyone and consumed a lot of resources.
特别是在亚洲国家，大量的资源放在围堵政策上面，其实后来发现这些举措实际上是没有太大必要的。
In Asian countries, in particular, substantial resources have been devoted to containment policies, which have since turned out to be virtually unnecessary.
后来，时任世卫组织总干事的陈冯富珍博士曾专门向《英国医学杂志》致信声明，阐释“当初为何宣布 H1N1 为大流行，判断指标是什么”，也就是上述“技术标准”。
Later, Dr. Margaret Chan, then Director-General of WHO, wrote a letter to the British Medical Journal explaining "why H1N1 was declared a pandemic and what the yardstick is," or "technical standards."
这或许也是让世卫组织在判定此次疫情是否宣布为“大流行”病时，变得异常谨慎的原因之一。
That may be one reason why the WHO has become extremely cautious in deciding whether the outbreak has been declared a "pandemic."
“大流行”病带来的影响世卫组织总干事谭德塞在 2 月 24 日曾强调：此次新冠肺炎疫情尚不可将其称为大流行病。
"Pandemic Influenza" The impact of the World Health Organization (WHO) Director General Theresa Tupper stressed on February 24: This outbreak of pneumonia can not be called a pandemic.
因为当时并没有出现“失去控制的全球传播”或者“大规模严重疾病或死亡”。
For there was no "uncontrolled global spread" or "massive and serious illness or death."
但随后，世卫组织在 2 月 28 日又对外宣布，将新冠肺炎疫情的全球风险级别从“高风险”提高至“非常高”。
But then, on February 28, WHO announced that it would raise the global risk level for the outbreak from "high risk" to "very high."
谭德塞表示，我们应该做好其可能发展为全球流行病的准备。
'We need to be prepared for what might turn out to be a global epidemic, 'Mr. Tanner said.
但关键问题并不是该关注使用什么词来描述疫情，使用“大流行”与否，不会干扰疫情的任何一次感染，也不会有助于拯救任何人的生命。
But the key question is not what words should be used to describe the epidemic, and whether to use a pandemic or not will not interfere with any infection of the epidemic or help save anyone's life.
现在是所有国家、社区、家庭和个人集中精力做好控制疫情扩散准备的时候。
It is time for all nations, communities, families and individuals to focus on preparing to control the spread of the epidemic.
我们所生活的环境并非是一个“非黑即白”的二元世界，大流行病亦或流行病也不是非此即彼的问题。
We live in an environment that is not a dualistic world of "black or white," and pandemics, or epidemics, are not either of them.
同时，新型冠状病毒的源头和传播的某些方面尚未调查清楚。
Meanwhile, some aspects of the origin and transmission of the new coronavirus have not been clearly investigated.
这些因素让其被宣布为“大流行”变得困难，尤其目前还有早期迹象表明，在中国、新加坡和越南等国家的疫情出现减缓的时候。
These factors make it difficult to declare a pandemic, especially at a time when there are early signs of a slowdown in countries such as China, Singapore, and Vietnam.
此外，将一种传染疾病宣布为大流行病，既不会为世卫组织带来更多的支援与帮助，也不会赋予其新的权力。
Moreover, declaring an infectious disease a pandemic would neither bring more support and help to WHO nor give it new powers.
而且，“国际关注的突发公共卫生事件（PHEIC）”已经是世卫组织的对疫情设置的最高警戒级别，目前也没有用“大流行”与否来表示影响程度的明确条例。
Moreover, "Public Health Emergencies of International Concern" (PHEIC) is already the WHO's highest-alert level for epidemics, and there are no clear regulations on the extent of impact in terms of "pandemic" or "pandemic."
世卫组织作为联合国下属的一个专门机构，也是最大的政府间卫生组织，其并没有管理各个国家或地区面对疫情如何运行的权力，只能进行号召与建议，但是一旦将疫情宣布为大流行病，很可能会刺激更多的国家在地方或者州一级别推出紧急级别更高的应对措施。
WHO, as a specialized agency of the United Nations and the largest intergovernmental health organization, does not have the authority to manage how countries or regions operate in the face of an epidemic and can only make calls and recommendations, but the declaration of a pandemic is likely to spur more countries to introduce higher-level emergency responses at the local or state level.
比如，美国 CDC 针对大流行病就有一系列措施，包括关闭学校、远程办公，以及取消更多公共活动等。
The US CDC, for example, has taken a series of steps to address the pandemic, including closing schools, telecommuting, and cancelling more public events.
而一旦大规模采取上述措施，很有可能给民众带来远超病毒所带来的恐慌和损失。
Once implemented on a large scale, these measures are likely to cause more panic and damage to the population than the virus.
据美国媒体报道，当美国新冠肺炎确诊病例增至 69 人且有 3 例“不明来源”感染病患时，在美国多地的超市就出现了民众排队抢购粮油米面、卫生纸、水等物资的现象；更有甚者，因担心情况失控部分人已经开始在囤积子弹。
When the number of confirmed cases of pneumonia in the United States rose to 69 and there were three cases of "unidentified" infection, people lined up at supermarkets in many parts of the United States to snag supplies such as rice noodles, toilet paper and water. Worse, fears of runaway conditions have led some to hoard bullets.
（来源：MIT Technology Review）当新冠疫情还未形成如此全球扩散的规模时，世卫组织在 1 月中旬就将由此次新冠病毒带来恐慌和混乱的问题称为“信息疫情”（Infodemic），并指出“社交媒体上散布着大量有关疫情、真假不一的消息，这加剧了公众对于疫情的恐惧心理。
(Source: MIT Technology Review) At a time when the new crown epidemic is not yet on such a global scale, the World Health Organization in mid-January called the problem of panic and chaos caused by the new crown virus "Information Epidemic" and noted that "the proliferation of information on social media, true and false, exacerbates public fears of the epidemic."
同时，虚假信息通过社交媒体迅速传播，引发了公共信任危机，也为网络内外的恐慌和种族主义推波助澜。
At the same time, the rapid spread of disinformation through social media has triggered a crisis of public confidence and fuelled fear and racism within and outside the network.
避免进一步加剧民众恐慌心理，减少可能出现的暴力风险，可能也是世卫组织考虑的关键因素之一。
Avoiding further panic among the population and reducing the risk of possible violence may also be one of the key considerations for WHO.
如今，世界经济紧密联系，一个国家遭殃，其他国家都会受到牵连。
Today, the world economy is inextricably linked, with one country suffering and others affected.
特别是像中国这样的世界经济主要引擎，这种影响就更为巨大。
This impact is even greater in a world economy like China's, which is a major engine.
而像发生在西非的埃博拉，对世界其他地方也会有影响，但无法与此次疫情的影响相提并论。
Ebola in West Africa, for example, will have an impact on the rest of the world, but not on a par with the impact of the epidemic.
在黄严忠看来，一旦宣布为“大流行”病，全球化可能是最大的牺牲品，因为中国一直在拥抱全球化，一直都是在支持全球化自由贸易。
In Huang's view, once declared a "pandemic," globalization could be the biggest casualty, because China has been embracing globalization and has always supported global free trade.
这一次疫情如果重创世界经济的话，更多的国家可能会对自由贸易、全球化更加没有信心。
If the current outbreak hits the world economy hard, more countries may become less confident in free trade and globalization.
另附：其他国家疫情进展不论宣布“大流行”与否，各个国家与地区都应准备好相应防疫措施。
Attachment: The progress of epidemic in other countries No matter whether a pandemic is declared or not, all countries and regions should be prepared to take corresponding preventive measures.
谭德塞表示：防疫并没有放之四海而皆准的方法，每个国家都必须针对本国的国情进行自我风险评估。
There is no one-size-fits-all approach to epidemic prevention, says Mr Tanner. Each country must conduct its own risk assessment tailored to its national circumstances.
世卫组织也在继续进行自己的风险评估，并日夜监测这一流行病的演变情况。
WHO is also continuing its own risk assessment and monitoring the evolution of the epidemic day and night.
“我们必须专心防控，同时尽我们所能为潜在的病毒长期存在的可能做好准备。
"We have to focus on prevention and control and do our best to prepare for the long-term possibility of a potential virus.
”不同国家为控制疫情的蔓延所做出的反应动作也有所不同，看似“佛系”应对的新加坡一度是除中国外感染人数第二多的国家，但截至 2 月 29 日，新加坡累计确诊 102 例新冠肺炎，未有死亡病例。
Different countries have reacted differently to contain the spread of the outbreak, with Singapore, which appears to have the second highest number of infections outside China, reporting 102 new cases of pneumonia and no deaths as of February 29.
从 2 月 21 日开始，治愈病患数便大于新增病例数；在 2 月 23 日，实现了病例零新增。
From 21 February, the number of cases cured was greater than the number of new cases; on 23 February, zero new cases were achieved.
这得益于其政府的快速反应，并有一套完善且经过验证的疾病应对系统；此外，还清楚地列明防疫对日常生活的影响，对民众的建议。
This was possible thanks to the rapid response of the Government and the existence of a well-developed and validated system of disease response; in addition, the impact of immunization on daily life and advice to the population were clearly outlined.
这让当地民众对新冠病毒的严重程度，有了直观认识。
This has given the local population a visual sense of the magnitude of the new crown virus.
在一定程度上，能减少不必要的恐慌情绪。
To some extent, it can reduce unnecessary panic.
作为让世卫组织担忧的日本，在 3 月 2 日上午日本首相安倍晋三在参议院预算委员会上发表讲话表示：“为预防可能出现的所有情况，将疫情对国民生活的影响控制在最小范围，政府应尽快推进立法程序，制定与新型流感对策特别措施法同等的措施，包括实施宣布国家进入紧急状态的条例。
"To prevent all eventualities and minimize the impact of the epidemic on national life, the government should move ahead with the legislative process and enact the same measures as the new influenza special measures law, including implementing regulations declaring a state of emergency," Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said in a statement to the Senate Budget Committee on the morning of March 2.
”他还强调，根据专家意见，未来的 1~2 周是决定新冠肺炎疫情在日本急速扩大还是逐步缓和的关键时刻。
He also stressed that, according to experts, the next 1-2 weeks would be a critical moment in determining whether the outbreak of pneumonia in Japan is expanding or easing.
几天前，安倍晋三在 2 月 27 日要求日本全国的学校停课，以防止新冠病毒的大规模蔓延。
A few days ago, Shinzo Abe asked schools across Japan to suspend classes to prevent a massive outbreak of the new crown virus.
而 3 月 2 日正是要求全国小、初、高停课的第一天。
March 2 is the first day of a nationwide ban on elementary, junior and high school classes.
不过，即便从宣布到停课已经给出了 5 天时间来安排相关事项，在给地方留出准备时间的同时，也给病毒传播留下了一个“窗口”，但是在 3 月 2 日仍然有部分地方政府拒绝停课，有的是“没有任何理由的拒绝”，还有的表示“由于家长和企业负担太大，所以拒绝停课”。
However, even though five days have passed between the announcement and the suspension, leaving a window for the virus to spread while allowing time for local preparations, some local authorities refused to suspend classes on March 2, either "without any reason to do so," or "because parents and businesses are too burdened."
鉴于有当做“普通流感”应对的新加坡在前，日本的疫情未来会发展如何，还有待时间验证。
It remains to be seen how the epidemic in Japan will unfold in the future, given that Singapore, which has responded as a "common flu," is ahead.
图 | 东京一些超市的架子上已经没有拉面了（来源：Twitter）政府专家会议成员、北海道大学医学研究院教授西浦博根据 2 月 25 日的调查，推算出北海道感染者将超过 940 人。
At some of Tokyo's supermarkets, noodles are no longer on shelves (www.tweette.com.cn) At Hokkaido, a professor at the Hokkaido Institute of Medicine and a member of the government expert meeting, Hokkaido University, calculated that more than 940 people will be infected in Hokkaido.
他表示：“目前公布的北海道感染人数为77人，但是推算的数据却是这一数字的 10 倍，‘轻症患者不会向年轻人群扩散’这种观点是不符合常理的推断。
"The number of Hokkaido infections currently reported is 77, but the extrapolated figure is 10 times that number," he said.
”另一个邻居韩国，据韩联社报道，3 月 3 日韩国累计确诊新冠肺炎病例 5,328 例，累计死亡 32 人，当日新增确诊病例数为 516 例。
South Korea, another neighbor, reported a cumulative total of 5,328 confirmed cases of pneumonia in South Korea on March 3, bringing the total number of confirmed deaths to 32, with 516 new cases confirmed on the same day.
总统文在寅在3 月 3 日上午的每周内阁会议上表示，随着大邱和附近的庆尚北道新冠病毒危机达到顶峰，韩国宣布对新冠病毒“作战”，政府所有机构进入 24 小时全面戒备状态，并计划直接或间接向新冠病毒应对行动注入 30 万亿韩元（约合人民币 1,700 亿元）资金。
At its weekly cabinet meeting on the morning of March 3, President Wen Yin Yin said that with the peak of the Taegu and nearby Gyeongshan North Province New Crown Virus crisis, South Korea announced a "war" on the new crown virus, with all government agencies on full 24-hour alert and planning to inject 30 trillion won (170 billion yuan) directly or indirectly into the new crown virus response.
在欧洲，随着新冠肺炎疫情的不断蔓延，欧洲疾病预防控制中心将新型冠状病毒风险级别由“中等”提升至“高”。
In Europe, the European Centers for Disease Control and Prevention raised the risk level of the new coronavirus from "moderate" to "high" as the outbreak of new coronavirus spread.
据海外媒体报道，意大利确诊病例数大幅上升，累计确诊病例从 2,036 例已上涨至 2,502 例，其中死亡病例达到 79人，超越了伊朗，成为中国之外因疫情死亡人数最多的国家。
According to overseas media reports, the number of confirmed cases in Italy has risen sharply, from 2,036 to 2,502, with 79 deaths, surpassing Iran as the country with the highest number of deaths from the epidemic outside China.
目前意大利已经对多个出现疫情的城镇采取封闭措施。
Italy has so far imposed closure measures on several towns affected by the epidemic.
西班牙在 3 月 3 日更新的数据显示，该国新冠病毒确诊病例数已攀升至 150；其中，有 7 名患者正在接受重症监护，并有 13 例涉及卫生工作者。
In Spain, the number of confirmed cases of the new crown virus climbed to 150, with seven patients under intensive care and 13 involving health workers, according to data updated on March 3.
此外，西班牙还确认了首例死于新冠病毒的病患，一名死于 2 月 13 日的男子尸检结果显示其死因是由于新冠疫情。
In addition, Spain confirmed the first case of death from the new crown virus, and an autopsy of a man who died on 13 February revealed that the cause of his death was a new crown.
法国政府在 3 月 1 日关闭了巴黎卢浮宫博物馆，后续开放时间尚不明确。
The French government closed the Louvre museum in Paris on March 1. The opening hours are unclear.
德国也已宣布取消多场展会、体育赛事等大型活动；德国内政部长 Horst Lorenz Seehofer 对媒体表示：为应对疫情，不排除将封闭部分地区或城市。
Germany has also announced the cancellation of major exhibitions, sporting events and other events, and German Interior Minister Horst Lorenz Seehofer told reporters that in response to the outbreak, it was not ruled out that some areas or cities would be closed.
图 | 意大利米兰 Affori 地区的超市，当地人在网上称为“人们集体歇斯底里”（来源：Twitter）英国在 3 月 3 日当日新增确诊病例 12 例，总病患人数已达到 51 例，英国卫生和社会工作大臣 Matt Hancock 在 BBC 的采访中表示，如果病毒进一步传播，将制定紧急“作战计划”，包括考虑禁止大型集会，停止足球比赛，关闭学校，劝告人们少乘公共交通等措施，只要这些措施“符合传染病学和科学”，都有可能实施。
Supermarkets in the Affori area of Milan, Italy, with local people calling it "people's collective hysteria," said in an interview with BBC Health and Social Work on March 3 that urgent "operational plans" will be made if the virus spreads further, including a ban on large gatherings, football matches, school closures and advising people to take less public transport.
但 Matt 也强调，目前上述措施都只在考虑中，尚未有任何决定。
But Matt also stressed that the measures are only under consideration and that no decision has yet been made.
在英国公共卫生局发布官方建议以前，人们不必选择关闭学校或其他机构。
People do not have to close schools or other institutions until the Office of Public Health issues an official recommendation.
而如果新冠肺炎在英国进一步扩散，政府将计划把已退休的医生护士召回到医疗服务体系中工作，并建议人们在家工作。
And if pneumonia is to spread further in the UK, the government will plan to recall retired doctors and nurses to work in the health-care system and advise people to work from home.
”在中东地区疫情最为严重的伊朗，据媒体报道，其境内新冠肺炎感染确诊病例已达 2,300 例，累计死亡人数已达 77 人。
In Iran, the most affected country in the Middle East, there have been 2,300 confirmed cases of pneumonia and 77 cumulative deaths, according to media reports.
目前有疑似病例 4,300 多例。
There are currently more than 4,300 suspected cases.
伊朗卫生部表示，将把中国的诊疗方案译为波斯语，并实施全国入户排查措施。
Iran's health ministry says it will translate its treatment programme into Persian and implement a nationwide household screening program.
视线回到中国，在发现疫情并采取严厉的管控措施之后，在全国人民和医护人员的不懈努力之下，如今疫情已得到了一定控制。
Looking back to China, after discovering the epidemic and adopting strict control measures, the epidemic has been brought under control thanks to the unremitting efforts of the nation's people and medical staff.
但据广东卫健委 3 月 1 日晚间发布的消息，深圳市卫健委报告 1 例由英国而来的输入性新冠肺炎确诊病例。
However, Guangdong Health Commission released the night of March 1, Shenzhen Health Commission reported a case of imported new crown pneumonia from the United Kingdom confirmed.
北京同样出现两例曾在伊朗出现症状的，境外输入性确诊病例。
Beijing also has two cases of imported confirmed cases that have developed symptoms in Iran.
而浙江在 3 月 1 日和 2 日两天内新增意大利输入性确诊病例 8 例。
Zhejiang Province on March 1 and 2, two days new Italian imports of confirmed cases of 8 cases.
因此，目前在继续做好国内疫情防控工作的同时，也要提高对国外输入性病例的警惕，在出入境管理上进行更为严格的健康检测，以避免疫情感染人数有重新“抬头”的可能。
Therefore, while continuing to do a good job of prevention and control of the epidemic at home, we should also pay more attention to imported cases abroad and carry out more stringent health tests on the entry and exit management so as to avoid the possibility of a new "re-emergence" of infection.
目前，北京、上海等地已经出台了相关措施，核心内容之一就是隔离 14 天，不分国内国外，没有区别对待，更不会有例外，只有一视同仁和严格执行。
At present, relevant measures have been taken in Beijing, Shanghai and other places, one of the core elements of which is 14 days of isolation, both inside and outside the country, without distinction and without exception.
-End-参考：https://www.who.int/https://experience.arcgis.com/experience/685d0ace521648f8a5beeeee1b9125cdhttps://www.who.int/csr/disease/swineflu/frequently_asked_questions/pandemic/en/https://twitter.com/WHOhttps://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2020-02-26/what-it-means-if-the-coronavirus-is-called-a-pandemic-quicktake?srnd=premium&sref=2bcE3K9dhttp://ex.chinadaily.com.cn/exchange/partners/77/rss/channel/language/columns/ohe6en/stories/WS5e5c549ba31012821727b6bf.htmltt_from=weixin&tt_group_id=6799404321189397005&utm_campaign=client_share&wxshare_count=1&timestamp=1583115691&app=news_article&utm_source=weixin&utm_medium=toutiao_android&req_id=202003021021310100140470771CB129B7&group_id=6799404321189397005https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2009_flu_pandemic_in_the_United_Stateshttps://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/i1RWCGBglN-dNETNR48l-Q。
- End - Refer: https: / / www.who.int / https: / / experience.arcgis.com / experience = weixin _ country / experience / 658404321189397005 https: / / ww.who.int / csr / dialogue / swineffps: / / www.blo.int / csr / dialogue / swineffps: / / www.twitter.com / WHOhttps: / / twitter.com / WHOhttps: / / twitter.com /
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
新冠病毒境外感染人数破万，世卫组织为何还不宣布“大流行”？。
Why hasn't the WHO declared a "pandemic" when the number of people infected outside the New Crown Virus has exploded?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "科技互联网";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & T & T & T;;
var nickname = "DeepTech深科技";。
var nickname = & quot; DeepTech & quot;;
var msg_title = "新冠病毒境外感染人数破万，世卫组织为何还不宣布“大流行”？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Why hasn't WHO declared a "pandemic"?
var msg_desc = "新冠病毒要不要宣布全球大流行？两种不同声音，应如何看待。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Has the new crown virus declared a global pandemic? What do two different voices say?
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="DeepTech深科技";。
var title = & quot; DeepTech & quot;;
