深夜，我在武汉等一辆救护车。
Late at night, I was waiting for an ambulance in Wuhan.
邓芷莹。
Miss Denise Tang.
云林街十七号                      。
17 Yunlin Street.
云林街十七号。
17 Yunlin Street.
这场战役 我们与你们同在。
We are with you in this battle.
没有床位，疑似病人的生命不断被消耗。
There are no beds and the lives of suspected patients are constantly being consumed.
无法确诊，无处可逃的，除了病人，还有绝望的家属。
Undiagnosed, nowhere to run, Except for the sick, And desperate family members.
文| 邓芷莹和小姜联系以来，我的作息也变成了每天凌晨三点入眠，陪她等救护车。
Since Deng and Jiang were contacted, my daily routine has turned to sleeping at 3 a.m. every day, waiting for an ambulance.
小姜的外公今年八十七岁，高度疑似新冠肺炎重症感染者。
Jiang's grandfather is 87 years old and highly suspected to be seriously infected with pneumonia.
家里只剩她和快六十岁的母亲。
There was only her and her mother, who was nearly sixty years old.
交通管制后，没人没车，要送外公上医院打针，她们只能靠凌晨打110、120碰运气。
Traffic control, no one without cars, to send grandfather to the hospital injection, they can only rely on the early morning call 110, 120 take a chance.
和小姜的聊天记录以下是小姜的自述：我今年32岁，女，单身未婚，在交警大队做辅警。
I am thirty-two years old, female, single and unmarried, and working as an auxiliary member of the Traffic Police Force.
我外公今年八十七岁，重症疑似。
My grandfather is 87 years old, seriously ill.
我们的每天，从夜晚10点，打电话碰运气叫110和120，送外公上医院打针开始。
Every day, from 10: 00 p. m., call luck to call 110 and 120, and send Grandpa to the hospital for an injection.
我们白天不敢上医院去。
We dare not go to the hospital during the day.
外公第一次到医院，排队挂号，见到医生等了五六个小时。
Grandpa's first visit to the hospital, line up to see the doctor waiting for five or six hours.
开完化验单，排队做CT又是两个小时。
After writing out the slip, queuing up for CT is another two hours.
我们还得拿着轮椅推他回家，扛他上楼。
We had to push him home in a wheelchair and carry him upstairs.
人回来了也不睡，睡不着，不停地喘。
People come back without sleep, without sleep, without stopping to catch their breath.
他的病已经很重了，我们不敢再这样磨，怕病没看上，人就给磨没了。
His illness is so serious that we dare not grind it any more. We are afraid that if we do not see it, it will wear away.
凌晨到医院排队打针，人会少一点，只用等三四个小时，外公能少受点罪。
In the early morning line to the hospital, people will be less, just wait for three or four hours, Grandpa can suffer less.
但打110和120也不是每次都能等到车的。
But it's not always possible to wait for a car to play 110 or 120.
别人愿意来就来，不来就不来，他们也害怕。
People come when they want to, and they are afraid if they don't.
等不到车，没有担架，我就和妈妈自己背外公下楼梯，再用轮椅推着去医院，走一个小时。
Before I could wait for the bus or stretcher, my mother and I would take my grandpa down the stairs and wheeled him to the hospital for an hour.
下楼的楼梯前天接电话的民警很好，半夜两点了还愿意来送我们去医院，可是我们也不能让人家等着再送我们回来。
The police answered the phone the day before yesterday. We'd like to be taken to the hospital at 2: 00 am, but we couldn't wait to see us back.
说实话，接送这种病人谁心里不发毛？凌晨打完针，我们自己用轮椅推着外公走回家，把他弄上楼。
To tell the truth, who doesn't get a hair in his head to take this patient home We wheeled my grandfather home after the injection in the early hours of the morning and took him upstairs.
等他休息了，母亲才肯眯一会。
When he rested, his mother would squint for a while.
母亲眯上了，我才能闭一会眼睛。
My mother squinted so that I could close my eyes for a while.
希望今天运气好一点，能等到110和120派车。
I hope I'm lucky enough to wait till the 110 and 120.
希望外公能在等到床位前，多熬一天。
I hope Grandpa can stay up one more day waiting for his bed.
Play外公的命运太不好了。
Grandpa Play's fate is so bad.
他16岁从军，到哈尔滨读军医，准备抗美援朝上战场。
He joined the army at the age of 16 and went to Harbin to study military medicine.
还没毕业，战争就结束了。
The war is over before graduation.
在部队当军医快三十年，是复员专业的老战士。
In the army almost thirty years of military medicine, is the demobilization of professional veterans.
76年转业到地方工厂。
Transferred to a local factory in 76.
那几年工厂垮台，就下岗了。
The factory collapsed in those years and was laid off.
外公有老年痴呆，一直在小区里的养老院住。
Grandfather has senile dementia, has been living in a residential home for the elderly.
感冒之前身体特别好，根本看不出来八十七岁，别人都以为他只有七十。
Before catching a cold, he was so well that he could not tell that he was eighty-seven.
华南海鲜市场离我家仅1公里，当时根本没有在意。
South China Seafood Market is only one kilometer from my home, then did not care.
当时政府说华南有疫情，把华南海鲜给关闭了，根本没有提及疫情的严重程度。
At the time, the government said there was an outbreak in South China, shutting down the South China seafood, without even mentioning the severity of the outbreak.
我们小区离华南这么近，封城前一天，大家都还没有要戴口罩的意识。
Our community is so close to South China, the day before the closure of the city, everyone has not yet to wear a mask awareness.
20号之前，大家都开心地置办年货，因为政府一直说没有发现人传人的迹象，很肯定说大概不会人传人。
Before the 20th, people were happy to buy New Year's Eve, because the government has been saying there is no evidence of human-to-human transmission, very sure that there will probably be no human-to-human transmission.
求助下的网友评论一开始我们以为是普通的感冒发烧，不敢去医院。
Help under the netizen comment at first we thought is the common cold fevers, dare not go to the hospital.
后来发烧反复，持续七八天都退不下来，一天比一天严重，最后开始呼吸急促。
Later fever repeatedly, continued for seven or eight days can not retreat down, day by day more serious, finally began to breathe quickly.
我们没办法了，只能去医院。
We have no choice but to go to the hospital.
医生看了结果就说是高度疑似，没有盒子做确诊，不确诊就不能收治，给我们开了单子每天来医院打针。
When the doctor saw the result, he said it was highly suspicious. There was no box to confirm the diagnosis and we could not be admitted without confirmation.
他只生了我的母亲一个，我母亲也只有我一个孩子。
He had only one mother, and my mother had only one child.
外婆过世多年，我爸妈在我很小的时候就离异了，现在家里只有我们仨相依为命。
Grandma died many years ago, my parents split up when I was very young, and now there are only three of us in the family.
等不到车，等不到人，就只能我来扛。
I can't wait for the bus, I can carry it.
现在外公住在里屋，我和母亲住客厅。
Now my grandfather lives in the inner room. My mother and I live in the living room.
我老和母亲吵，让她不要上那个屋去，会感染。
I keep arguing with my mother that she won't go into that room. It will infect me.
她老是不听，一直要上那个房间照顾外公，给他端水、送饭、擦洗，看他呼吸得过不过来。
She would not listen, and would go up to the room to look after my grandfather, bring him water, bring food, scrub, and see if he could not breathe.
她说“那是我爸”，可她也是我妈呀。
She said, "That's my father," but she's my mother, too.
自制的防护措施我害怕外公走了，她也要走了，那我也只能走了。
Homemade defenses I'm afraid Grandpa's gone, and she's leaving, so I'll have to go.
我每天都在给不同的医院打电话，希望早点收治隔离，但哪里都没有床位。
I call different hospitals every day, hoping to be treated and quarantined earlier, but there are no beds anywhere.
只能熬在家里打针。
I had to stay home and do the needles.
说实话，这个事刚发生的时候，我无感。
To be honest, I didn't feel a thing when it first happened.
慢慢地觉得愤怒。
Slowly feel angry.
到现在自己家人得了这个病，有可能我也感染了，我已经没有愤怒了，只有害怕和崩溃。
By now his family has this disease, I may also be infected, I no longer angry, only fear and collapse.
我也不想出门，也想在家好好隔离啊。
I don't want to go out, and I want to be at home.
可是不出门，谁送外公去打针？我不知道外公还能熬多久，我也不知道，他要是死在家里了，我们怎么办。
I don't know how long Grandpa can stay, and I don't know what we'll do if he dies at home.
我所需要的，是一个隔离床位，是收治。
All I need is a secluded bed. It's for treatment.
是救命，救我们一家三口的命。
It's a life save. save the lives of three of us.
打医院的电话、打求助热线、打110、120、发求助帖子，我都已经试过了，我已经没有任何办法了。
I've tried calling the hospital, calling the helpline, calling 110, 120, posting help. I have no choice.
现在，外公呼吸困难了，他在不停地说，“去医院，带我去医院”。
Now, grandfather breathing difficulties, he kept saying, "to the hospital, take me to the hospital."
我好心疼。
My heart aches.
可是，我怎么去？小姜的“遗书”我父亲和奶奶还不知道这个事。
But how am I going? My father and grandmother still don't know about this.
他们不能知道，我不想再害多一个人进来了。
They don't know. I don't want one more man coming in.
后记2020年2月2日晚，我在小姜家里见到了她，外公已经病重无法呼吸。
Postscript February 2, 2020, evening, I saw her at Jiang's home, grandfather has been seriously ill unable to breathe.
18:28 我们叫了救护车19:43 救护车抵达，两位男护士用担架将外公抬下楼20:10抵达协和医院发热门诊，被告知需要挂号。
We called an ambulance at 19: 43, and the two male nurses took Grandpa downstairs on a stretcher at 20: 10 and arrived at the fever clinic at Concorde Hospital, where they were told to register.
当天号已经取完，得等到过凌晨后取号才能看医生就行救治20:20 外公无法呼吸，护士帮忙挂上吸氧瓶，血氧饱和度从55%升到84%21:00 外公撑不住了，被告知只能等待过零点取号，在急诊室熬一夜，明早看医生，床位未知21:24 拨打各个热线，江汉区政府推到健康热线，健康热线推到社区书记后，社区书记表示，“我会和街道反应的。
20: 20 Grandpa couldn't breathe, the nurse helped hang up the oxygen bottle, he was told to wait overnight in the emergency room from 55% to 84% 21: 00. I was told to wait overnight in the emergency room.
我没有办法，我的个人建议是，你们就死赖在医院”21:50 一具尸体从我们面前抬出去22:00 外公用微弱的气息哼哼，“不看了不看了 回屋头去 我想死屋头”22:30 在110、社区叫车均被拒绝的情况下，我们选择给外公盖上厚厚的棉被，推轮椅回家（请能提供床位和救助信息的朋友，联系邓芷莹 13371696978）「云林街十七号」推出征集活动无论你是医护人员、患者，还是普通人都可以点击“阅读原文”和我们联系点击阅读原文，报名参与“故事征集”。
My personal suggestion is that you stay in the hospital. "2150 A corpse was carried out in front of us. 22: 50 Grandpa hummed in a weak breath," No more looking at it Go back to the house I want to go home in a wheelchair.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
深夜，我在武汉等一辆救护车。
Late at night, I was waiting for an ambulance in Wuhan.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "云林街十七号";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; 17 Yunlin Street;;
var msg_title = "深夜，我在武汉等一辆救护车";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Late at night, I waited for an ambulance at & quot; in Wuhan.
var msg_desc = "外公呼吸困难了，他在不停地说“去医院，带我去医院”。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Grandpa had trouble breathing; he kept saying, "Go to the hospital, take me to the hospital."
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="云林街十七号";。
var title = & quot; 17 Yunlin Street; & quot;
