如何走进武汉「心里」。
How to walk into Wuhan "heart."
刘楚zzZ。
Liu Chu-zzZ.
偶尔治愈                      。
Occasionally cured.
偶尔治愈。
Occasionally cured.
记录人与疾病、衰老、死亡的相处方式。
Document how people relate to illness, old age and death.
。
.
「封城」后的武汉，一度被病毒分裂成了两种状态：有新冠肺炎感染的家庭和无新冠肺炎感染的家庭。
Wuhan, after the closure of the city, was once split into two states by the virus: families infected with pneumonia and families without a new crown pneumonia.
疫情刚爆发时，武汉人刘俊几乎每隔一会儿就在手机里刷新一次疫情地图，看着感染数字的增加，不断扩大的红色，白色全部变成红色，浅红变成深红、甚至紫红。
When the outbreak first broke out, Liu Jun, a Wuhan native, refreshed the epidemic map almost every few moments on his mobile phone. He watched as the number of infections increased.
焦虑、恐惧随着感染数字的上升蔓延到了人们的心里，数百条心理咨询热线在全国各地开通。
Anxiety and fear spread to people as the number of infections rose, with hundreds of counseling hotlines operating across the country.
人们从网络中获悉，武汉战疫陆续陷入物资紧缺、试剂盒不足、一床难求等困境。
People learn from the network, Wuhan epidemic has been trapped in material shortages, insufficient kits, a bed difficult to find.
而在武汉的刘俊， 1 月底父母陆续发病，他开始理解那些逃离这座城市的人们。
But in Wuhan, Liu Jun, parents began to get sick at the end of January, he began to understand those who fled the city.
父亲最危急时刻，他泪流满面地跪在轮椅前听着不太清晰的遗言，绝望中脑海中冒出「灭门之灾」四个字。
At his most critical moment, he knelt down in front of his wheelchair in tears, listening to his unclear wishes, and in despair he thought of the word "destruction."
2 月 9 日，唐伟、刘志宏成为浙江第三批援汉医疗队里唯二的心理专家，因为人数少被编在省队里。
On February 9, Tang Wei and Liu Zhihong became the only two psychologists in Zhejiang's Third Han Medical Team because their numbers were smaller than those in the provincial team.
直到落地后一个星期，他们才陆续在见缝插针中进行着心理援助工作。
It was not until a week after landing that they began to work on psychological assistance in the stitch.
与此同时，武汉本地的心理咨询师杜洺君告诉「偶尔治愈」，心理危机干预开始向患属和医护专线倾斜，但当前的问题是，如何让更需要的特定人群知晓、完成「需要」和「资源」的匹配。
Meanwhile, Wuhan local counselor Du Zengjun told the "occasional cure," psychological crisis intervention began to tilt toward the genera and the medical line, but the question now is how to make the match between "needs" and "resources" known and fulfilled by specific groups of people in greater need.
「他们（患者亲属）在亲人离开后，作为密切接触者，当下还处于自我求生的阶段，属于马斯洛最基本的生存需求，而最深层的创伤来不及应对。
"As close contacts after the departure of their loved ones, they are still at the stage of self-sustenance. They belong to Maslow's most basic survival needs and the deepest wounds cannot be met.
」更多时候，是更外围的亲属，在无能为力的心态下，拨打热线请求干预。
More often than not, it is the more peripheral relatives who call the hotline to ask for intervention in a helpless state of mind.
根据国际精神疾病的分类，一般把接触创伤事件 3 天至 1 个月内所出现的创伤应激反应症状，称为急性应激障碍（ ASD ），疫情中许多人都会产生这类应激反应。
According to the International Classification of Mental Illness, symptoms of traumatic stress that typically occur within three days to one month of exposure to traumatic events are known as Acute Stress Disorder (ASD), which occurs in many people during an outbreak.
但如果恐惧、回避等状况持续半年以上，则属创伤后应激障碍（ PTSD ）。
But if the condition of fear, avoidance and so on lasts for more than half a year, is the post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).
3 月 1 日下午，湖北武汉硚口武体方舱医院 34 名患者痊愈出院，在剩余 76 名患者完成转诊处理后，将进行「休舱」处理，不再接收患者。
On the afternoon of March 1, 34 patients in Wuhan, Hubei Province, Zhangkou Wuji Square Hospital, were discharged from hospital. After the remaining 76 patients were referred for treatment, they would be "closed" and no longer accepted.
「休舱」的消息传到了一线医护群体，很多人觉得终于看到希望，「离回家的日子不远了。
The news of the cabin shutdown reached the front-line health care community, and many people felt finally hopeful, "It's not far from home.
」但刘志宏在日记中写道：「（此次）抗疫对不少医护人员构成重大的心理创伤，除了当下的心里抚慰和支持，未来中长期的心理辅导与创伤处理将更为重要」。
But in his diary, Mr Lau wrote: "The fight against the disease has caused serious psychological trauma to many health care workers. In addition to immediate psychological relief and support, medium- and long-term psychological counselling and trauma management will become more important."
一1 个多月前，院士「人传人」的声音振聋发聩，人们用抢购口罩的方式响应了这一警告。
More than a month ago, the academician's "human-to-human" voice was so loud that people responded to this warning by snapping up masks.
武汉公布了第一批 7 家定点医院，很快就被涌入的人群挤满。
Wuhan announced the first batch of seven designated hospitals and was soon overwhelmed by an influx of people.
在高级别专家组到达武汉数日后， 1 月 23 日上午 10 点正式「封城」，是近百年来第一遭。
A few days after the high-level panel arrived in Wuhan, the city was officially closed at 10 a.m. on January 23 for the first time in nearly 100 years.
土生土长的武汉人刘俊在手机里机械地刷着新闻，犹豫着要不要离开妻女，去父母家照顾腿脚不便、刚刚手术出院的父亲。
Liu Jun, a native of Wuhan, mechanically brushes the news on his mobile phone, hesitating to leave his wife and daughter and go to his parents' home to care for his father, who has just been released from surgery.
刘俊支持「封城」，甚至有些不理解那些连夜逃离的人群。
Liu Jun supported the "closure" and did not even understand those who fled overnight.
同处武汉的心理咨询师杜洺君接到其所在的湖北省心理咨询师协会会长肖劲松电话，此后她一直在家连线工作至今。
Wuhan-based counselor Du Zengjun received a telephone call from Xiao Jinsong, the head of the Hubei Psychological Counsellors Association, and has been working from home ever since.
「共情创伤」一时间成为热词，被用来形容普通民众通过换位思考，感同身受体验到患者及家属的遭遇，继而产生身心疲惫、焦虑情绪，甚至因此导致自己出现心理应激创伤症状。
Emotional trauma has become a popular term to describe how ordinary people experience the experiences of their patients and their families through empathy, followed by physical and mental fatigue, anxiety and even traumatic symptoms of psychological stress.
几乎同时，湖北省心理咨询师协会和武汉卫生精神中心公布心理咨询热线。
Almost at the same time, Hubei Psychological Counsellors Association and Wuhan Mental Health Center published psychological counseling hotline.
其后，全国各地的心理学学术协会、心理咨询协会、联盟等都行动起来，利用电话、互联网等渠道对外提供公益咨询服务。
Since then, psychological academic associations, psychological consultation associations, alliances, etc. have been set up throughout the country to provide public service consultation services through telephone and Internet channels.
除夕当晚，武汉十多家医院联名对外界发出物资告急求助信息，随后核酸检测试剂盒不足、病患一床难求在家去世等负性消息不断充斥在网络，加剧了普通民众对于武汉疫区的「共情」以及恐慌。
On New Year's Eve, more than a dozen hospitals in Wuhan sent out a material emergency information to the outside world, and then nucleic acid test kits insufficient, patients a bed difficult to die at home and other negative news constantly filled the network, exacerbated the general public of Wuhan epidemic areas "empathy" and panic.
武汉卫生精神中心后来统计的数据显示，仅除夕当天的未接电话就达 1000 余个，是平时的 10 - 15 倍。
Statistics from the Wuhan Health and Mental Health Center later showed that the number of unanswered calls on New Year's Eve alone reached more than 1,000, 10-15 times the usual number.
数据分析发现，早期的咨询中 70% 都是普通群众， 85.7% 处于非危机状态。
Data analysis found that 70 per cent of early consultations were with the general population and 85.7 per cent were in a non-crisis situation.
咨询人面临的问题中， 39%是由于买药、出行、就医、食品口罩等现实矛盾导致。
Of the problems faced by consultants, 39 per cent were due to real-life contradictions such as drug purchases, travel, medical treatment and food masks.
心理咨询热线来电分析图标图源：武汉精神卫生中心官微事实证明，民众对于心理咨询的知晓和需求量的确在此次疫情中呈现出前所未有的增长，而迅速反应建立起的专业心理咨询团队，对于主动寻求外界帮助的焦虑人群，无疑是最好的情绪出口。
Wuhan Mental Health Center official micro-evidence, the public's knowledge of and demand for psychological counseling has indeed shown an unprecedented increase in the epidemic, and the rapid establishment of professional psychological counseling teams, for the initiative to seek external help for the anxious people, is undoubtedly the best emotional outlet.
从志愿者报名到如何筛选、培训……杜洺君几乎每次接受采访时都会被问到的问题，这背后是很多人仍记得的那句「防火防盗防咨询师」：汶川地震时，一大批缺乏组织的心理咨询师涌入灾区，却因不够专业被诟病对被咨询对象造成二次伤害。
From volunteer enrollment to how to screen and train... Du Zengjun was asked questions almost every time he was interviewed. This is the phrase many people still remember: When Wenchuan earthquake, a large number of unorganized counselors poured into the disaster area, but the lack of professionalism was criticized as causing secondary harm to the clients.
杜洺君告诉「偶尔治愈」，一般来讲，能够拿起电话去求助别人的咨询者，其实都有一个很强的动力，他愿意借助这个外力来支持自己。
Mr. Du tells "Healing Occasionally." Generally speaking, a counselor who can pick up the phone and ask someone else for help has a strong motivation that he is willing to use to support himself.
她所在的热线团队采取的三级工作制，其中一半都是因为疫情所导致的直接应急反应，可以在 10 - 15 分钟内让咨询者情绪稳定下来；40% 出现身体不适的躯体症状，则通过一级干预后转后台分发，由咨询师再次回拨，干预时长在 30 到 90 分钟。
Half of the three-tiered work system adopted by her hotline team was a direct emergency response to the outbreak, which stabilized the counselor within 10-15 minutes; 40 per cent had physical symptoms of discomfort, which were distributed backstage through a first-level intervention that was redirected by a counsellor for 30 to 90 minutes.
仅有 10% 的因为疫情引发的既往心理问题，需要咨询师提供持续的心理支持，甚至是精神药物治疗。
Only 10 per cent of past psychological problems related to the epidemic require ongoing psychological support, even psychoactive treatment, from a counsellor.
鲜为人知的是，技术上的难题比人员不足给热线运转带来了更多困难。
It is little known that technical difficulties make the operation of hotlines more difficult than understaffing.
比如，咨询师都是通过自己的实名电话接听和回拨，造成了隐私泄露和潜在的隐患问题。
Consultants, for example, answer calls and callbacks using their real names, creating privacy leaks and potential pitfalls.
武汉精神卫生中心不得不临时召集技术志愿团队， 2 天内紧急搭建一套「云呼」系统，但最终达到多线通畅程度，花了3周的时间。
Wuhan Mental Health Center had to temporarily convene a technical volunteer team to set up an urgent set of "cloud paging" system within 2 days, but eventually reached a multi-line smooth degree, it took three weeks.
1 月 27 日，国家卫健委下发了《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情紧急心理危机干预指导原则》，要求分类干预，将第一级人群（住院治疗的重症及以上患者、疫情防控一线的医护、疾控和管理人员等）作为心理危机干预的重点。
On January 27, the National Fitness and Health Commission issued guidelines for emergency psychological crisis intervention in cases of new coronavirus infection, requiring classified intervention to focus on the first group of people (hospitalized severe and above patients, frontline care, disease control and management personnel, etc.).
在热线开通半个月后，杜洺君告诉「偶尔治愈」，他们又开通了医护人员和患者及家属专线，也逐渐寻求与定点医院对接的机会，尽可能主动介入到被隔离的人群中去。
Half a month after the hotline opened, Du told "Healing Occasionally," they opened a special line for medical staff and patients and their families, and gradually sought to link up with the designated hospitals, reaching out to isolated groups as much as possible.
二心理专家常常将重大危机事件比作人们在海上遭遇风暴，但只要有一个人安稳，就可以给船上所有人带来安定和希望，而每个心理援助者便是风暴中那个安稳的人。
Psychologists often liken a major crisis event to a storm at sea, but as long as one person is calm and hopeful for everyone on board, each one is the calm one in the storm.
1 月 29 日，上海医疗救治专家组组长、华山医院感染科主任张文宏接受媒体采访时说：「空气中闻到的不是病毒的味道，是恐惧的味道。
"It's not the smell of the virus, it's the smell of fear," Zhang Wenhong, the head of the Shanghai Medical Treatment Expert Group and director of infection at Huashan Hospital, told reporters.
」张文宏说，受到各类自媒体信息报道渲染，医生也会恐惧，集中隔离治疗的病人更加恐惧，他建议隔离治疗病房里的病患和医护心理干预要立即开始。
"Doctors are also frightened by all kinds of self-media coverage," Zhang said, adding that patients undergoing intensive isolation treatment were more fearful and suggesting that patients in isolation wards and medical and psychological interventions should begin immediately.
2003 年 SARS 时期，多伦多的研究表明，有 20% 的医护人员出现抑郁症状，在护士中的比例更是高达 40% 。
In the SARS period of 2003, a Toronto study showed that 20 percent of health-care workers had depressive symptoms, and as many as 40 percent of nurses.
但在早期心理咨询热线接到的电话中，医护人员占比不超过 5% ，杜洺君分析原因是早期的一线医护处于高负荷的工作运转中，没有精力关注到自身的情绪。
But doctors and nurses make up no more than 5 percent of the calls to the early counseling hotline, which Du attributed to the fact that early front-line care was running at a high workload and was not focused on his emotions.
2 月 3 日开始改造，2 月 5 日第一批正式启用的方舱医院，负责接收具有自理能力的轻症确诊新冠肺炎患者。
The renovation began on 3 February, with the first officially opened cabin hospital on 5 February to receive patients diagnosed with mild and self-sufficient pneumonia.
然而启用次日，就传出不通电、体感温度过低等消息，一些患者因此还与医护人员产生了冲突，甚至出现谩骂医护人员的事件。
However, the next day, there was no electricity, the body temperature too low news, some patients have also had conflicts with medical personnel, and even abuse of medical personnel.
另一边，从全国各地赶来支援的医护人员也感觉委屈。
On the other hand, medical staff from all over the country felt aggrieved.
方舱医院内部图片图源：武汉发布武汉中南医院神经内科主任医师肖劲松是最早进入隔离病房的心理医生，他告诉「偶尔治愈」，不同于定点医院，方舱医院对于医护人员的心理危机干预能力要求更高，如果不及时干预，可能出现严重的群体性事件。
Wuhan Central South Hospital, Wuhan released the neurologist Xiao Jinsong is the first to enter the isolation ward of the psychiatrist, he told the "occasional cure," unlike the designated hospital, the cabin hospital to the medical staff of the higher psychological crisis intervention capacity, if not timely intervention, there may be serious mass incidents.
「方舱医院作为临时的收治区间条件肯定比较一般，所以患者刚入住时，可能就会产生抵触心理，加上生病担心病情加重、远离家人来到陌生的环境感到孤独，相比医疗救治，更需要的是心理疏导。
"As a temporary admission interval, the Fang Ngau Hospital is certainly relatively modest. As a result, patients may develop resistance when they first arrive. In addition, they may feel lonely when they are ill and live away from their families in unfamiliar places. What they need is more psychological guidance than medical treatment.
」肖劲松提出，虽然方舱里面的医护人员并非都具备心理学背景，但只要经过简单的培训，就可以在日常护理中提供非专业的干预，「这种干预恰好也是我们当前所需要的。
Although not all the staff in the cabin had a psychological background, Xiao suggested that with simple training, lay interventions could be provided in day-to-day care, "just what we need right now.
」按照此前卫健委的文件，心理危机干预应该由各省级防疫工作指挥部统一领导，但武汉的情况却是，一个方舱医院往往容纳数百上千人，必须由多个救援队同时负责。
According to the document, psychological crisis intervention should be under the unified leadership of the provincial anti-epidemic commands, but in Wuhan, a square-cabin hospital often holds hundreds of thousands of people and must be managed by multiple rescue teams.
而在各省抽调的支援医疗队里，重症医学、感染科、呼吸科才是首选，轮到唐伟接到指令跟队时，已经是浙江派出的第三批支援医疗队。
Among the medical support teams drawn from the provinces, the departments of severe medicine, infection and respiration were the first choice. When Tang Wei was instructed to follow the team, he was the third support medical team sent by Zhejiang.
和唐伟一同随队的还有温州康宁医院集团资深心理专家刘志宏，这也是浙江第一次组织精神心理专家组赴武汉疫区提供心理危机援助服务。
Along with Tang Wei, Liu Zhihong, a senior psychologist at Wenzhou Kangning Hospital Group, is the first time that Zhejiang has organized a team of mental experts to provide psychological crisis assistance in an epidemic area in Wuhan.
唐、刘两位专家此行的任务很明确：保证队内医护人员的心理健康，对武汉患者提供力所能及的帮助。
Tang and Liu experts on the mission is very clear: to ensure the mental health of the team of medical personnel, Wuhan patients to provide assistance within their capacity.
然而，刚到武汉，唐伟和刘志宏两位年逾50的专家一度产生了「英雄无用武之地」的落寞感。
However, just arrived in Wuhan, Tang Wei and Liu Zhihong, two more than 50-year-old experts have had a lonely feeling of "heroic land".
他们在日记中记载，刚开始队员们大多在讨论物资问题，而且常常接到临时命令，不得不把刚整理好的行李塞进行李箱跟队转移。
They noted in their diary that at first most of the team members were discussing material problems and were often given temporary orders to move their freshly packed luggage into suitcases.
2 月 15 日， 1700 名医护人员被感染的数字第一次被披露，此时唐伟和刘志宏所在的医疗队也很快就要进入方舱医院工作，「队员心理压力更大了，心理干预将呈爆发之势。
On February 15, the first figures of 1,700 health-care workers being infected were revealed, as the medical teams of Tang Wei and Liu Zhihong were about to enter the cabin hospital.
」而等到救援队正式入驻新方舱医院时，心理专家的作用马上就体现了，不仅有来自医护人员本身的心理问题，更多的是方舱内病员的心理问题通过医护人员传达了出来。
"By the time the team was officially admitted to the new cabin hospital, the role of the psychiatrist would soon be reflected, not only in the mental problems of the medical staff themselves, but also in the psychological problems of the patients in the square cabin through the medical staff.
「病员的情绪如何评估？」「病员失眠又不想吃安眠药怎么办？」「我们通过广播播放医学常识或放松音乐，但有病员就会抗议、嫌吵，心率增快到 100 次了，还有一次，一放音乐就晕倒…… 」一位医护人员曾表示，方舱里的工作 80% 是心理安慰，但并不是所有医护人员都懂得如何安慰。
"What about the patients' emotional assessment?" "What if the patient has insomnia and doesn't want to take sleeping pills?" "We broadcast common medical knowledge or relaxing music on the radio, but the sick people protest, quarrel, heart rate increases to 100 times, and once the heart rate faints..."
医疗队心理专家为开舱前所做预案流程图图源：受访者供图而上述这些问题，在唐伟、刘志宏的介入下都能及时地得到专业的解决方案。
Medical team psychological experts for the pre-plan flow chart source: interviewees supply maps and these issues, Tang Wei, Liu Zhihong's intervention can be timely professional solutions.
2 月 16 日，刘志宏在日记中记载，吃早饭时刷手机，突然看到微信里有队员发来消息，称自己穿防护服出现胸闷、呼吸困难的情况。
Liu Zhihong wrote in his diary on Feb. 16 that while brushing his cell phone at breakfast, he suddenly saw messages from members of the team saying they were having chest tightness and breathlessness in protective clothing.
当下他便回到房间，思考一会儿便立即写出一篇《关于穿防护服后出现胸闷、呼吸困难的应对策略》，并转发到救援队的工作群。
Then he returned to his room, thought for a moment, and immediately wrote A Strategy for Dealing with Breathing and Breathing Difficulty After Wear Protective Wear, and forwarded it to the rescue team.
除了这些，唐伟和刘志宏还经常接到一线医护的热线咨询。
In addition to these, Tang Wei and Liu Zhihong often receive first-line medical advice hotline.
武汉救援医疗队酒店窗外的武汉凌晨景象图源：唐伟拍摄刘志宏曾接到一名男医生的电话，他已经在重症病房工作了 20 天，坚持到第 4 个星期，感觉体力透支已经到了极限，双下肢肿胀、酸痛，觉得自己坚持不下去了……而原因是男医生身高 185cm ，却没有合适尺码的防护服，每天穿着小号的防护服不敢坐不敢蹲，「一坐下防护服就会崩裂……」「那一刻，给多少安慰、讲多少道理都是站着讲话不腰痛，任何专门的技术都是苍白无力的。
Wu Han rescue medical team hotel window scene picture source: Liu Zhihong has received a male doctor's telephone, he has been working in the intensive care unit for 20 days, until the 4th week, feeling exhausted, legs swelling, sore, feel unable to sit down... "
唯一能做的，就是争取在短时间里，通过单一的信息通道（听觉），获得对方的信任而为其营造一个倾诉和释放情绪的空间。
The only thing that can be done is to create a space for them to confide and release their emotions in a short period of time through a single channel of information (aural) and gain the trust of the other party.
」三1 月底，刘俊 60 岁左右的双亲逐渐出现高烧等感染症状，彼时武汉很多疑似患者由于核酸检测试剂盒的短缺，不得不拿药回家进行居家隔离治疗。
By the end of January, Liu's parents, aged around 60, were showing signs of infection such as high fever, when many suspected Wuhan patients had to go home for home isolation due to a shortage of nucleic acid test kits.
然而，一旦病情加重，想要收治入定点医院，患者仍然需要拿到核酸检测阳性结果，但由于资源短缺和社区网格化管理压力，很多家庭在打了无数电话后得到的回答只有等待。
However, in the event of an aggravation of the condition and in order to be admitted to a designated hospital, patients still need to receive a positive nucleic acid test, but due to lack of resources and pressure from community griddle management, many families are left with no choice but to wait after making countless calls.
而在居家隔离的过程中，很多疑似患者无法完全隔离，传染给了其他家庭成员，很多患者出现自责、内疚心理，甚至有留下遗书离家出走最终去世的案例。
In the process of isolation, many of the suspected patients can not be completely isolated, transmitted to other family members, many patients have self-blame, guilt, and even left a letter to leave the final death of the case.
与此同时，心理专家集体呼吁，应该将社会心理危机干预纳入到疫情防控整体部署，发挥民政等在救扶安置等方面有丰富实践经验的部门作用。
At the same time, psychological experts collectively called for the inclusion of psychosocial crisis interventions in the overall deployment of disease prevention and control, and the role of civil affairs and other sectors with rich practical experience in rescue and resettlement.
2 月 8 日，武汉硚口区70 岁的尿毒症合并新冠肺炎疑似患者梁述滔从家中阳台一跃而下结束了自己的生命，他留给同样感染新冠肺炎的妻子最后一句话是「不想连累你」。
Wuhan, a 70-year-old patient with uremia complicated by pneumonia, ended his life on the balcony of his home on Feb. 8, leaving his wife, also infected with pneumonia, with the last line: "Do not want to compromise you."
在此之前，梁述滔和家人多次为了核酸检测前往社区服务中心沟通，但所得到的答案大多是「正在走流程」「医生刚下班」，甚至后来服务中心大门关闭，不再接待群众，工作人员仅接听电话。
Before that, Liang and his family went to the community service centres several times for nucleic acid testing. However, most of the answers were "doctors just off duty." Even after the service centre door was closed, the staff only answered the phone calls.
事发后，另有社区工作人员对偶然治愈表示，社区工作人员诚然已是高负荷，虽然在医疗资源上无法及时提供，但是在面对群众情绪崩溃时，采取闭门谢客的态度，让患者和家属的情绪无处释放，颇为遗憾。
After the incident, other community workers expressed regret that community workers, who were already overworked, were unable to provide medical resources in a timely manner and, in the face of a breakdown in public sentiment, resorted to a closed-door attitude, leaving patients and their families with no place to release their emotions.
「如果社区能够早一点与心理咨询团队做好沟通，在发现群众情绪出现爆发迹象时由心理咨询师介入干预，也许能够避免类似的悲剧发生。
"A similar tragedy might have been averted if the community had been able to communicate with the counseling team earlier and the counselor had intervened in the event of an outbreak of public emotion.
」在 2 月 9 日接到救援一线的命令前，唐伟就曾收到来自温州防疫指挥中心层面的函件，让他们参与到集中隔离酒店、定点医院等心理危机干预工作中去。
"Before receiving a first-line rescue order on February 9, Tang Wei had received a letter from the Wenzhou epidemic prevention command centre, asking them to participate in psychological crisis interventions such as centrally quarantined hotels and designated hospitals.
2 月 4 日晚上，唐伟接到平阳市人民医院的救助电话，对方告知有一名被集中隔离的人出现焦虑甚至极度恐惧的状况，时不时大喊「活不了了」，急需干预。
On the evening of February 4, Tang Wei received a telephone call from the Pingyang People's Hospital informing him of the anxiety and even extreme fear of a person who had been placed in a concentrated isolation, occasionally shouting "Not alive" and in urgent need of intervention.
唐伟通过电话了解到，这名来自河北的 59 岁女性，没有去过疫区，仅仅是因为同乘的动车上出现一例确诊感染者，因此被隔离起来。
The 59-year-old woman from Hebei province, who had not been to the affected area, was quarantined simply because of a confirmed case of infection on a commuter train, Tang said by telephone.
「远离家人、亲属，对隔离环境的不熟悉，对死亡的恐惧，孤独、寂寞都容易让隔离人群产生心理上的问题。
"Stay away from family, relatives, unfamiliar with the isolation environment, fear of death, loneliness and isolation all tend to cause psychological problems for isolated people.
」唐伟参与过很多重大事件中的心理干预，目前在温州地区有 10 支专业的心理干预团队，覆盖到几乎所有的县市，即便在疫情交通管制情况下，也可以通过政府函件快速到达急需支援的地区。
Tang Wei has been involved in psychological intervention in many major incidents and now has 10 professional psychological intervention teams in Wenzhou, covering almost all counties and cities. Even in the case of epidemic traffic control, it is possible to reach areas in urgent need of support through government letters.
与心理咨询师不同的是，作为专业的精神科医生，唐伟具备处方权，特别是对于严重精神障碍的患者，可以很好地通过转院进行接收。
Unlike psychiatrists, Tang Wei, a professional psychiatrist, has the right to prescribe treatment, especially for patients with severe mental disorders, can be well received through referral.
「心理咨询师和心理医生的关系类似于护士和医生，心理咨询师更面向大众，但遇到棘手的病患时就需要专业的心理医生介入，采取临床治疗手段。
"Psychologists and psychiatrists have similar relationships to nurses and doctors. Psychotherapists are more open to the general public, but require the intervention of a professional psychiatrist and clinical intervention when confronted with a difficult patient.
」杜洺君向「偶尔治愈」解释。
"Du Ze-jun explained to" Healing Occasionally. "
然而在武汉，温州这套成熟的心理干预体系在疫情期间很难运转。
In Wuhan, however, this mature system of psychological intervention in Wenzhou was difficult to operate during the epidemic.
肖劲松曾向「偶尔治愈」表示，虽然心理咨询热线团队拥有来自全国各地、甚至海外权威专家资源，但是从整个武汉防控措施中，最先考虑的仍然是救治条件、防护物资等现实问题，心理危机干预属于自发民间行动，除非是以政府发文的方式，否则很难覆盖到各个角落。
Xiao told The Occasional Healer that although the psychological counseling hotline team has resources from all over the country and even overseas authoritative experts, the first consideration in the overall Wuhan control measures is still the treatment conditions, protective materials and other practical issues, psychological crisis intervention is a spontaneous civilian action, unless the way the government sent a communication, it is difficult to cover all corners.
而另一方面，对于原本就捉襟见肘的武汉来说，早期防护不足所带来的院内交叉感染也使得医护力量损伤惨重，这在精神专科医院更显得尤为突出。
On the other hand, for Wuhan, which is already overstretched, cross-infection caused by inadequate early protection also causes serious damage to medical care, especially in psychiatric hospitals.
据中国新闻周刊报道，武汉市精神卫生中心出现院内感染，至少有 50 名患者和 30 名医务人员感染新冠肺炎。
At least 50 patients and 30 medical staff have contracted pneumonia at the Wuhan Mental Health Center, according to China News Weekly.
「偶尔治愈」此前确认到， 2 月 16 日，武汉精神卫生中心不得不向感染控制专家请求支援，原因该院也被征收为新冠定点医院，接收新冠肺炎合并精神疾病患者。
"Occasional Healing" had previously confirmed that on Feb. 16, Wuhan Mental Health Center had to seek help from an infection control specialist because the hospital had also been recruited as the New Crown Point Hospital to receive patients with New Crown Pneumonia complicated with mental illness.
相比起普通综合医院，精神专科医院的病人更难管理，一旦发生交叉感染，精神病患者难以被其他定点医院接收，救治过程中也更容易对医护人员造成感染威胁。
Patients in specialized psychiatric hospitals are more difficult to manage than in general general hospitals, and in the event of cross-infection, it is more difficult for psychiatric patients to be admitted to other designated hospitals, and the risk of infection to health-care personnel is increased.
近日，杜洺君所在的心理咨询热线接到的普通群众咨询量逐渐回落，但如同「偶尔治愈」接触的所有心理专家所见一致，相比起疫情防控，心理战役仍是硬仗。
Recently, Du Zengjun's counseling hotline received a gradual decline in the number of consultations with the general public, but as "occasional cure" contact of all psychological experts see, compared to the prevention and control of the disease, psychological battle is still a battle.
四刘俊告诉「偶尔治愈」，最让人恐惧的事情是能感知到的死亡。
Four Liu Jun tells "occasionally cure", the most frightening thing is to be able to perceive the death.
前一天还在医院碰面的小区邻居大爷，仅隔了两天就在业主群里看到他去世的消息，「那种强烈的感受跟网络上看别人的故事完全不同，很难想象如果是我的父母又是什么心情。
"It's so different from watching other people's stories on the Internet that it's hard to imagine what it would have been like for my parents," he said.
」「偶尔治愈」曾经接触到一位武汉的新冠患者施宁，出院后独自在家隔离，而父母均在医院救治，病情危在旦夕。
"Occasionally cured" has come into contact with Shi Ning, a Wuhan-based newly-crowned patient who was discharged from the hospital in solitary isolation.
父亲去世后，她告诉「偶尔治愈」，在武汉最难入院时期，她给自己设定好每天必须要做的事情，比如打市民热线、找关系、求助网络；也定好目标，先找到核酸检测试剂，拿到阳性报告单再找床位，「我知道，只有确诊了才有被定点医院接收。
After her father died, she told "Healing Now and then" that during Wuhan's most difficult period of hospitalization, she set herself daily to do things such as calling the Citizen's Hotline, finding a relationship and a help network; and set her sights on finding nucleic acid reagents, getting positive reports and finding beds.
」但父亲去世后，她开始陷入自闭，不想打电话也不想回任何消息，主动逃避一切，「（母亲还在医院）我暂时只能让自己不去想父亲去世的事情，现在骨灰盒还在殡仪馆，不知道什么时候才能拿回来。
"But after her father died, she began to shut herself up, didn't want to call or hear anything back, and volunteered to run away from everything." For the time being, I had to let myself forget about my father's death.
」「我很感恩周围的亲朋好友，虽然我不回消息，但她们没有放弃，仍然在联系我，才把我拉回来。
"" I am very grateful to my friends and relatives around me. Although I did not return my message, they did not give up.
」原本以为施宁已经足够坚强，但后来「偶尔治愈」获悉，没多久她的母亲也因为癌症在医院去世，此后便再也没有接受媒体采访。
Shi Ning was thought to be strong enough, but she was "cured occasionally" when she learned that her mother had died of cancer in the hospital and had not been interviewed by the media since.
杜洺君也接触到类似的案例，但她认为，这些受到巨大震荡的家庭成员来说，其实心理创伤问题才刚刚开始。
Mr. Du has come in contact with similar cases, but believes the trauma is only just beginning for those family members who have been through a huge shock.
「作为去世患者的亲属，首先作为密切接触者需要接受隔离，面对的是死亡的威胁，对于他们来说，当下最着急的首先是活下来。
"For the relatives of the deceased, who first need to be isolated as close contacts and face the threat of death, the immediate priority is to survive.
」「死亡患者家属先是处于马斯洛最底层的需求，等到后期确认可以活下来了，整个疫情的状况稳定了，他们才允许自己从封锁到接受的过程，心理创伤状态开始显现。
"The families of the deceased were at the bottom of Maslow's needs, and it was only later that they were able to confirm that they would survive, that the epidemic stabilized, that they allowed themselves to move from closure to acceptance, and that a state of trauma began to emerge.
」杜洺君说，每一个死亡数字背后都代表着一个家庭，而真正的心理危机干预工作仍然任重道远。
"Every death number represents a family, and real psychological crisis intervention still has a long way to go," says Mr. Du.
从疫情爆发开始，杜洺君就做好了打持久战的准备，从刚开始的面对公众最广泛的情绪层面的适应，正在逐步转移到创伤后遗症（ PTSD ）和特殊人群的纵深干预。
From the outbreak of the outbreak, Du prepared for a protracted war, from the beginning of the most extensive public emotional adaptation, is gradually moving to traumatic sequelae (PTSD) and the deep intervention of special populations.
湖北省心理咨询师协会每日海报图源：受访者供图目前，杜洺君每天都在转发心理协会的宣传海报，除了固定不变的两部热线电话，海报上的日期日日变化，还附上一句心理句子，从未间断。
At present, Du Zengjun transmits the propaganda posters of the Psychological Association every day. Apart from the two fixed telephone hotlines, the day-to-day changes in the dates on the posters are accompanied by a psychological sentence that never stops.
最近一次沟通中，她告诉「偶尔治愈」，在区妇联的支持下，已经有两家方舱医院的墙上贴出了他们热线的电话，她期待能通过媒体宣传让更多人知晓热线，特别是那些最需要心理危机干预的人群。
In a recent communication, she told "Healing Now and then," with the support of the District Women's Union, their hotline had been posted on the walls of two cabin hospitals, and she looked forward to reaching more people, especially those most in need of psychological crisis intervention, through media campaigns.
到达武汉 10 日后，唐伟和刘志宏不约而同在日记里第一次提到了疲惫的字眼。
Ten days after arriving in Wuhan, Tang Wei and Liu Zhihong coincidentally mentioned the word tired in their diary for the first time.
3 月 1 日，第一家方舱医院即将「休舱」的消息传来，医护人员都觉得看到了希望，「离回家的日子不远了。
On March 1, news came that the first cabin hospital was about to be "closed," and doctors and nurses felt hopeful.
」但刘志宏在日记中写道：「抗疫对不少医护人员构成重大的心理创伤，除了当下的心里抚慰和支持，未来中长期的心理辅导与创伤处理将更为重要」。
But Mr Lau wrote in his diary: "Anti-epidemic is a major psychological trauma for many healthcare personnel. In addition to immediate psychological relief and support, medium- and long-term psychological counselling and trauma management will become more important."
相比于网络、电视里医护人员时而英勇、时而脆弱的形象，刘志宏日记里的医护人员，更像是个普通人，随时有着可能爆发的心理压力。
Compared to the sometimes heroic and sometimes fragile images of medical staff on the Internet and on television, the medical staff in Liu Zhihong's diary are more like ordinary people with psychological stress that can erupt at any time.
对于这些心理压力，刘志宏总结为：有对「病毒」无孔不入带来的恐慌、有工作后较长时间隔离在房间里的无聊与孤独、有病情「瞬变」及生死带来的无助与悲伤、有病员离世家人亲疏不同带来的人情冷暖的失望，有「白衣战士被英雄」后的无奈与压抑，有轻视、曲解「心理保障」意义与价值的不屑，更有世俗偏见带来的「讳疾忌医」……杜洺君告诉「偶尔治愈」，她早已经从开始的没日没夜工作变成有规律的作息，按时吃饭、按时睡觉，保持好的精神状态。
To these psychological pressures, Liu Zhihong summed up: there are "viruses" brought panic, isolation after work for a long time in the room, there is "transient" and life-and-death helplessness and grief, "white-clothed warrior is a hero."
而对于疫情结束的期盼，她曾在朋友圈写下了一句诗词：「岂敢妄谈笑樱花，唯愿含泪赏夏荷。
Looking forward to the end of the epidemic, she wrote a poem in her circle of friends: "Do you dare to talk about cherry blossoms, but only tears in the summer.
」（文中刘俊、施宁均为化名）（主笔更多好文，可点击「阅读原文」）作者：刘楚封面图片来源：站酷海洛—Tips—我们的新书《生死之间》出版了可识别下方图片中的二维码购买偶尔治愈to-cure-sometimes——记录人与疾病、衰老、死亡的相处方式偶尔治愈 | 常常帮助 | 总是安慰。
2007-9-24 16: 55 [hide] http: / / www.youtheme.cnOur new book, "Between Life and Death," publishes two-dimensional code purchases that recognize the occasional cure to disease, old age, and death - an occasional cure for illness, aging, and death.
刘楚zzZ。
Liu Chu-zzZ.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
已喜欢，对作者说句悄悄话。
Like it, whisper to the author.
发送给作者。
Send to author.
最多40字，当前共字。
Up to 40 words, currently in common.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
如何走进武汉「心里」。
How to walk into Wuhan "heart."
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "偶尔治愈";。
Var nickname = & quot; occasionally cured & quot;;
var msg_title = "如何走进武汉「心里」";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; How to enter Wuhan & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "步步为营的疫情心理危机干预";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; step-by-step psychological crisis intervention;;
var title ="偶尔治愈";。
var title = & quot; occasionally cured & quot;;
