一个武汉中产家庭的抗疫史：一夜之间全家沦陷。
An Anti-epidemic History of Middle-class Families in Wuhan: Whole Families Fall Overnight.
点击右边星标。
Click the star on the right.
一条                      。
One article.
一条。
One article.
每天一条原创短视频，每天讲述一个动人的故事，每天精选人间美物，每天来和我一起过美好的生活。
Every day an original short video, tell a moving story every day, select the best things in the world, and come and live a good life with me every day.
。
.
小月，33岁，武汉人，从事IT行业。
Xiaoyue, 33 years old, Wuhan, engaged in IT industry.
自武汉疫情爆发以来，一家5口，先后3人确诊，一度分隔4地。
Wuhan outbreak since the outbreak of a family of five, three people have been diagnosed, at one time separated four places.
在2月20日，接受一条采访时，小月的婆婆病情最重，当时在金银潭医院接受治疗，她和丈夫属于轻症，在方舱医院治疗，公公因为是密切接触人群，在酒店接受隔离，4岁的女儿托管在邻居家中，现在还无法理解这次分离。
In an interview on February 20, when her mother-in-law was the most ill, she and her husband were treated at Gold and Silver Pool Hospital. She and her husband were treated in a cabin hospital. Her father-in-law was quarantined in the hotel because of his close contact with the crowd.
这是一个武汉中产家庭的抗疫史。
This is the anti-epidemic history of a middle-class Wuhan family.
当疫情来临时，他们也曾绝望得抱头痛哭：“你的心就像海滩上的砂石一样，每一天，都被惊涛骇浪拍打着。
When the outbreak came, they cried out in despair: "Your heart is like the sand on the beach, every day, the waves are beating.
”但却清醒得非常之快，想尽办法调配资源，“住不进医院前，我们给婆婆买了台呼吸机，确保她在家能正常呼吸。
But we were wide-awake and tried to marshal resources. "Before we went to the hospital, we bought a ventilator for my mother-in-law to make sure she could breathe normally at home.
”自救之余，还不忘救助病友，也努力改善着方舱医院内的生活环境，“现在最大的感受是，死太容易了，活着才是最难的，既然现在还死不了，我就要活好每一天。
"Save yourself, not forgetting to help sick people, but also trying to improve the living environment inside the cabin hospital," the biggest feeling is that death is too easy, to live is the most difficult, since now can not die, I will live a good day.
”自述小月  编辑倪楚娇全家人的年夜饭暴露我叫小月，33岁，武汉人，从事IT行业。
"Self-described Xiaoyue editor Ni Chujiao family dinner exposed my name is Xiaoyue, 33 years old, Wuhan people, engaged in the IT industry.
婚后与公婆同住，有一个4岁的女儿。
After marriage, she lived with her in-laws and had a 4-year-old daughter.
1月22日，我们全家提前吃了个年夜饭。
On January 22nd, my family had a Chinese New Year's Eve meal in advance.
吃完后，我婆婆因为抹不开面子，还是答应去别人家打麻将，一直打到凌晨2:00才回来。
After eating, my mother-in-law because of the face, or agreed to play Mahjong in other people's homes, until 2: 00 a.m.
她不听我们的劝阻，也一直对新闻报道挺不在乎的：“每年冬天都会有很多老人扛不过去，这次没那么夸张。
She didn't listen to our attempts to dissuade her, and she didn't give a damn about the news: "There are a lot of old people who can't carry it every winter, and this time it's no exaggeration.
”1月23日一早，封城的消息就出来了。
Early on the morning of January 23, word came out of the city.
我们才意识到不再是“有限的人传人”，这次疫情挺严重的。
We just realized that we are no longer "limited person-to-person", this epidemic is quite serious.
本来那天我们是要飞新加坡去度假的，也因此取消了。
We had to fly to Singapore for our holiday that day, so we canceled it.
接下来的几天，我全部的精力都在退票、取消行程上面，对于疫情没有太在意。
For the next few days, I spent all my energy on returning tickets and canceling trips, not paying much attention to the epidemic.
家里粮食的储备也挺充足的。
Food reserves at home are also plentiful.
我想：“封城，最多半个月吧。
"I thought," Seal the city for half a month at the most.
”1月26日，我婆婆号召全家人一起大扫除。
On January 26, my mother-in-law called for the whole family to clean up.
大家热火朝天地把纱窗都拆下来洗，打开窗子南北通风。
The screen windows were torn down and the north and south ventilation opened.
风挺大的，吹了很久。
The wind was strong. It lasted a long time.
当天婆婆就发烧了，但我们都没当回事，觉得太正常了，不过是出了汗、吹了风，才发的烧。
That day my mother-in-law had a fever, but we were not serious, feel too normal, but is sweaty, blowing wind, just issued a fire.
1月28号晚上，我突然一下觉得头好痛，身体也不对劲了，浑身无力，一直保持37.6度的低烧状态。
On the evening of January 28, I suddenly felt a headache, and I was not feeling well. I was all weak and had a low fever of 37.6 degrees.
我开始焦虑，怀疑是否被感染了。
I began to worry, wondering if I was infected.
1月30号下午，我正在刷朋友圈，发现我婆婆一个朋友的亲戚被确诊了，病情严重，在朋友圈求助。
On the afternoon of January 30, while I was cleaning my circle of friends, I found that a relative of one of my mother-in-law's friends had been diagnosed.
而我婆婆就是去这个朋友家打的牌。
And my mother-in-law went to play cards at this friend's house.
我脑子一下就懵了。
I was stunned for a moment.
小月的女儿在“新家”自得其乐她还不知道家里发生了什么隔离、争吵公公知道以后，和婆婆大吵了一架，武汉人说话都特别直，而且难听：“是你一直不当回事，还出去玩，现在害了一家人！”我和老公一边安抚两位老人的情绪，一边考虑对策。
When my father-in-law and I got into a huge fight, Wuhan people always spoke very straight and unpleasantly: "You've been neglecting your duty and going out to play, and now it's hurting the family!" My husband and I tried to soothe the two old people's feelings and consider ways to deal with them.
居家隔离太难实行了，说白了就是靠每个人不同的抵抗力，扛过去就扛过去了，抗不过去就全家感染。
Isolation at home is too difficult to implement, to put it bluntly is to rely on each person's different resistance, carry the past on the shoulders of the past, can not resist the family infection.
还好的是，我老公的一个同事回老家过年了，就很仗义地把武汉的房子借给我们隔离，他的房子是我老公装修的，还保留着钥匙。
Fortunately, one of my husband's colleagues back home for the Spring Festival, very generous to us to lend the isolation of Wuhan, his house is decorated by my husband, but also keep the key.
但30号公婆的那场大吵，让我们没有走成。
But we didn't make it through the big fight with my mother-in-law 30.
安抚了一夜后，1月31号，我和丈夫思虑再三还是决定到他同事家去，中午我们开始收拾东西，收拾完我们就带着4岁的女儿，3个人一起搬到了同事家中，与婆婆分开。
After a quiet night, on Jan. 31, my husband and I decided to go to his colleague's house again and again. At noon we started packing, and when we finished, we moved to the home with our four-year-old daughter and three of us moved in with our mother-in-law.
我们离开家的同时，婆婆到社区医院拍了个X光片，诊断下来肺部有一点支气管炎症。
While we were away, my mother-in-law took an X-ray at the community hospital and diagnosed bronchitis in the lungs.
顿时，我们心里的石头都放下了。
All of a sudden, the stone in our hearts are down.
“新家”有两个房间，我独立一间，老公和孩子在另外一个房间睡上下铺。
The "new house" has two rooms, I am a separate room, husband and children in another room to sleep in the upper and lower berths.
在那里，我们度过了最难熬的一个星期。
We had the hardest week there.
因为我们不知道会面临什么，也不知道能做什么，就像砧板上的鱼肉。
Because we don't know what to face or what to do, like fish on the chopping block.
后来的5天，婆婆每天去社区医院打针。
For the next five days, my mother-in-law went to the community hospital for injections every day.
她咳得比较厉害，但是她的咳嗽是常年慢性病，所以当时我们还是不愿意相信，新冠肺炎真的到我们家来了。
She coughed badly, but her cough was chronic all year round, so we didn't want to believe that New Crown Pneumonia had really come to our house.
小月婆婆的CT结果双肺炎症，考虑病毒性感染崩溃、自救2月4日，婆婆已经打了5天针了，但咳嗽还是没有缓解，还出现了胸闷，她到武汉科技大学的校医院做了一个CT检查，显示双肺有感染。
On Feb. 4, my mother-in-law has had five days of unrelieved cough and chest tightness. She went to Wuhan University of Science and Technology Hospital for a CT scan showing two-lung infection.
我们越来越紧张，老公想办法买了一台呼吸机，连夜给婆婆送去。
We became more and more nervous. My husband managed to buy a ventilator and sent it to his mother-in-law overnight.
同时一直联系社区，希望可以把婆婆接走隔离。
At the same time has been in contact with the community, hope that her mother-in-law can be isolated.
老公很担心自己的父亲。
My husband is worried about his father.
公公本身的基础病非常严重，心脏做了5根支架，如果感染了，后果都不敢想。
Father-in-law's own basic illness is very serious, the heart did five stents, if infected, the consequences do not dare to think.
同一时间，我开始第二次发烧，比第一次严重。
At the same time, I began a second fever, more serious than the first.
当时病得全身乏力、不停地出虚汗、打寒战，裹着被子太热，稍稍透点气又冷得不行。
At that time, the whole body was tired, sweating, shivering, wrapped in quilt too hot, a little breathless and cold.
还出现严重的呕吐、腹泻、没胃口，就像中毒了，吃药都没有缓解。
There was also severe vomiting, diarrhea, loss of appetite, as if intoxicated, and medication did not relieve.
我又怀疑是不是药不对症，吃多了有副作用，才导致不舒服。
I doubt whether the medicine is wrong, eat more side effects, just cause discomfort.
从第一次发烧开始，我们就病急乱投医，从家里找出来莲花清瘟、阿莫西林开始服用，后来不烧了，也还盲目地吃，好像吃了药就能抵抗病毒一样。
From the first fever, we rushed to the hospital, from home to find lotus rinderpest, amoxicillin began to take, later did not burn, but also eat blindly, as if taking medicine can resist the virus.
真是乱了阵脚，每天又被各种疫情信息轰炸着，也不知道自己是否被感染，身心都在煎熬。
Really confused, every day by a variety of epidemic information bombing, do not know whether they are infected, mental and physical suffering.
2月4日晚上视频的时候，老公跟婆婆说了要送她去隔离的想法，婆婆在视频里和老公争执起来：“现在还没确诊，你们要冷静，心态要放好！又没什么事，搞得要死要活的。
February 4 night video, her husband told her mother-in-law to send her to the idea of isolation, mother-in-law and her husband argued in the video: "Now not confirmed, you have to calm down, mind well!
”我们俩都崩溃了，两个人抱在一起痛哭，不知道该怎么办，那是真的绝望。
"We both collapsed, and the two of us cried together and didn't know what to do.
看到他平时脾气火爆的大老爷们在那儿委屈地哭，我好心疼。
It hurts me to see his usually hot-tempered old men cry bitterly there.
居家隔离条件有限小月的丈夫与女儿睡上下床有朋友知道我生病了，经常会来慰问，给我做各种提醒说：“一定要跟孩子隔开，现在新冠肺炎还可以通过粪便传播，要把家里弄干净。
A friend of mine, aware that I was ill, would often come to my assistance, offering me various reminders: "Be sure to separate from your child. Now pneumonia can also be spread through faeces and the home needs to be cleaned up.
”我当时特别讨厌来关心我的人，我如果有酒精，我如果能够和我孩子分开，我难道不知道要去做吗？全房间就只有一个洗手间，你要我怎么分开？虽然是好心，但他们说的话已经脱离了我当前的一个现状，就特别特别不爽。
"I hated people who came to care about me, and if I had alcohol, didn't I know I was going to do it? There was only one bathroom in the room, and how do you want me to part?
当时网上负面消息太多了，每天那么多人确诊，朋友圈到处是求助的信息。
There was too much negative news on the Internet, so many people diagnosed every day, friends everywhere to ask for help.
当时各种资源还没调配起来，床位非常紧张，排队一整天也排不上号。
Resources were not allocated, beds were tight, and queues were not available for the whole day.
4号当天，婆婆就去人民医院做核酸检测，从上午一直排队到晚上7点才做上检查。
On the 4th, her mother-in-law went to the People's Hospital for a nucleic acid test.
那段时间我正在发病，整个人都是虚脱的状态，我只知道我老公那两天，从起床到闭眼一直在打电话。
At that time I was getting sick and the whole person was in a state of exhaustion. All I knew was that my husband spent those two days on the phone from waking up to closing his eyes.
小月婆婆的核酸结果第一次检测，显示为双阴2月5日我们通过人民医院的熟人，查到了我婆婆的检查结果，是双阴，悬着的心又落下了，但还是不敢放松警惕，因为有朋友说核酸检测不准，CT显示感染的话基本就确诊了，说实话我不想听这些，也不想再去想。
My mother-in-law's nucleic acid test showed that February 5, through the people's hospital acquaintances, we found that my mother-in-law's examination results, is overcast, suspended heart fell, but did not dare to relax vigilance, because friends said nucleic acid testing is not accurate, CT showed the infection basically confirmed, I do not want to hear these, I do not want to think about it.
2月6日，婆婆终于被接到酒店隔离，老公的情绪开始缓解。
February 6, the mother-in-law was finally isolated from the hotel, husband's mood began to ease.
公公在家，用酒精上上下下全部消毒了一次。
Father-in-law at home, using alcohol up and down all disinfected once.
2月7日，我们就带着孩子回家了。
On February 7, we went home with our children.
确诊、拒收婆婆在酒店隔离时，也会做核酸检测，大概10号左右，社区联系我们说婆婆的结果是双阳，稍微平复的心情又被揪紧。
Confirmed, refused mother-in-law isolation in the hotel, will do nucleic acid testing, about 10, the community contact us that the results of the mother-in-law is Shuangyang, slightly calm mood was pulled tight.
我婆婆是在半夜，被一辆国产皮卡车接走的，后面是敞开的那种卡车。
My mother-in-law was picked up in the middle of the night by a homemade pickup truck, followed by an open truck.
为了保护司机的安全，从酒店接走的病人全部都是坐在后面。
To protect the driver, all the patients picked up from the hotel were sitting in the back.
她跟我说：“风吹得当时觉得人都要死过去了。
She said to me, "The wind was killing me.
”婆婆被接到社区的卫生院，这里变成了一个中转中心，病人们在这里等待被安排进入方舱治疗。
"Her mother-in-law was taken to the community health center, where she became a transit center where patients waited to be placed in a cabin for treatment.
转运到方舱后，因为婆婆心率太高了，直接跳到了120，方舱不敢收。
Transshipped to the cabin, because the mother-in-law heart rate is too high, jumped directly to 120, the cabin dare not collect.
他们只接收轻症患者，因为方舱只能提供药物治疗，那时针都不能打，就又把我婆婆给打回了社区医院。
They only accept patients with mild cases, because the cabin can only provide medication, that clockwise can not play, and then called my mother-in-law back to the community hospital.
住在中转中心里，看着每天有人被送进来，但是每天送进来的人都被转走了， 而自己被卡在那里，内心是非常焦虑的。
Living in the transit center, watching people being brought in every day, but every day the people are transferred, and they are stuck there, very anxious.
CT显示双肺感染，同时核酸呈双阴的人，或是病情较为严重的人，都被留了下来。
CT showed that two-lung infection, nucleic acid is diyin, or more serious people, were left behind.
我婆婆说，算上她一共有3个人卡在那里。
My mother-in-law said, including three of her people.
（后来，我都帮他们解决了问题，晚点再说。
Later, I solved their problems for them. I'll talk about them later.
）小月和老公全副武装前往医院做核酸检查全家沦陷祸不单行，在被新冠肺炎蹂躏的这些天里，老公的爷爷也出了问题。
) Xiao Yun and her husband went to the hospital armed for a nucleic acid test. During the days of New Crown Pneumonia, my husband's grandfather had a problem.
2月9日凌晨，奶奶打来电话说爷爷中风了，倒在地上扶不起来。
In the early morning of February 9, Grandma called to say that Grandpa had a stroke and that he could not help himself to the floor.
当时婆婆已被隔离，我们都出不了门，只能干着急，打了很多电话，110、120、社区，都无能为力。
At that time, our mother-in-law was isolated, we could not go out, we had to worry, made a lot of phone calls, 110, 120, the community, can do nothing.
2月12日下午，爷爷过世。
On the afternoon of February 12, Grandpa died.
没有任何告别仪式，殡仪馆把人带走火化后，让我们等通知去取骨灰盒，至少15个工作日。
After the funeral parlor has cremated the person, let us wait until notice to pick up the urn, at least 15 working days.
如果不是这次疫情，送去医院救治的话，爷爷一定是能活过来的。
If it had not been for the outbreak, sent to the hospital for treatment, Grandpa would have survived.
每一天，你的心就像海滩上的砂石一样，被惊涛骇浪拍打着。
Every day, your heart is like the sand and stone on the beach.
从担心，到害怕，到绝望，慢慢就接受事情已然如此，生活仍旧继续。
From worry to fear to despair, slowly accept that this is already the case and that life continues.
我现在最大的感受是，死太容易了，活着才是最难的。
My biggest feeling right now is that it's easy to die, to be alive is the hardest.
既然我死不了，那我就要活好每一天。
Since I cannot die, I will live each day.
小月丈夫的核酸检测结果2月12日，公公、我和老公一起去做了ct检查。
On Feb. 12, my husband and I went to have a CT scan together.
我跟我老公双肺都有感染，公公的肺部没有什么问题。
My husband and I both have lung infections and my father-in-law has no problem with his lungs.
我们知道这个情况不是很好了。
We know the situation is not very good.
公公还有心脏病，他没法一个人带孩子。
Father-in-law has a heart attack. He can't bring kids alone.
我爸妈不在武汉帮不上忙。
My parents can't help me in Wuhan.
这样就没有任何人能照顾4岁的女儿了，实在没有办法，不得不连夜把孩子送到邻居家。
With no one left to look after their four-year-old daughter, there was no way to send their children to their neighbours overnight.
2月13号，我们去了湖北省人民医院做核酸检查，整个就诊的情况很有序，也有既定的流程，不像之前新闻里报道的那样，所有人都往医院涌，无序而绝望。
On February 13, we went to Hubei Provincial People's Hospital for a nucleic acid examination. The whole visit was orderly and there was an established procedure, unlike the previous news report, when everyone rushed to the hospital in disorder and despair.
期间接到邻居的电话，阿姨说她晚上洗澡时感冒了，意思是不能帮我们照顾孩子了。
During the neighbors phone call, aunt said she took a bath at night, cold, meaning can not help us to take care of the children.
我们想阿姨也许是担心，没有多说什么怕她有负担，表达了感谢后，我老公就把孩子接走了。
We thought the aunt may be worried, did not say more afraid of her burden, expressed gratitude, my husband took the child away.
婆婆又联系了另外一个阿姨，她是一个人独居的，也知道所有的风险，但还是特别仗义，就让我们把孩子送去。
The mother-in-law contacted another aunt, who lived alone and knew all the risks, but was very generous enough to let us send the child away.
她现在一直帮我们在照顾孩子。
She's been helping us with the baby now.
如果没有她，我们真的不知道该怎么安置自己的孩子。
Without her, we really don't know what to do with our children.
“孩子没事”是我们当时为数不多的心理支撑。
"Kids are OK" was one of the few psychological supports we had.
2月14日情人节，核酸检测出结果了，我老公是双阳，我是两个可疑。
February 14, Valentine's Day, nucleic acid detection results, my husband is Shuangyang, I am two suspicious.
那一天早上，我老公就到社区医院跟婆婆会合了。
That morning, my husband met his mother-in-law at the community hospital.
他比较幸运，当天就住进了方舱。
He was fortunate enough to be in the cabin the same day.
他在我们全家里面，是第一个到洪山体育馆方舱医院的人。
He was the first person in our family to go to Hong Shan Gymnasium, Fang Cao Hospital.
我在去方舱的公交车上为了保护司机安全，公交车做了改造2月15日，我又做了一次核酸。
I was on the bus to the square cabin to protect the driver's safety, the bus did a transformation Feb. 15, I made another nucleic acid.
那天晚上，和孩子视频通话的时候，她一直哭一直哭，情绪很激动，想要回到我们身边，她知道外面有病毒，但她不能接受和家人分离，为什么顷刻间所有亲人都不在她身边了。
That night, during a video conversation with her child, she cried and cried and wanted to come back to us. She knew there was a virus outside, but she couldn't accept to be separated from her family.
我又崩溃了，还抱着侥幸心理，想着如果结果是阴性，要去酒店隔离，我就去接她，带到酒店跟我一起隔离。
I broke down again, thinking that if the result was negative and I wanted to go to the hotel for isolation, I would pick her up and take her to the hotel to be isolated with me.
2月16号8:40，湖北省人民医院给我打电话，告诉我结果是双阳，让我联系社区安排隔离，那一刻，我反而平静了下来，因为结果给我了一个定数，我不用再去猜疑。
February 16 8: 40, Hubei Provincial People's Hospital called me, told me the result is Shuangyang, let me contact the community to arrange isolation, but at that moment, I calmed down, because the result gave me a fixed number, I do not need to suspect.
等到快3点，车来了，是一辆旅游大巴。
When it was almost three o'clock, the bus came. It was a tour bus.
所有人都只能从后门进，坐最后的位置，司机要求把后面所有的窗户和天窗全部打开。
Everyone had to get in through the back door and sit in the last position. The driver demanded that all the windows and skylights in the back be opened.
从接我婆婆的皮卡到现在的旅游大巴，武汉的情况每一天都在变好。
From picking up my mother-in-law's pickup to the current tour bus, Wuhan's situation is getting better every day.
车把我们带到了另一个医院，后来知道，各个社区都把病人集中汇总在这里，再用公交车把我们这群病人运送到洪山体育馆的方舱医院。
The car took us to another hospital, where it became known that the various communities had assembled the patients and transported us by bus to the Fang Ngau Hospital at Hongshan Stadium.
洪山体育馆方舱医院工作人员在处理出院病人的用品5口人，分隔4地2月16号，我跟老公在洪山体育馆方舱医院会合。
HONG SHAN Gymnasium, Fang Ngau Hospital staff are handling the discharge of five patients, separated on February 16, 4, my husband and I at Hongshan Stadium Fang Hung Hospital to meet.
我们所在的西区是4个篮球场，250个床位，每个隔间里，大概有20个病人。
Our western quarter is a 250-bed basketball court with about 20 patients in each cubicle.
在这里，护士每天会跟我们量体温、血氧饱和度、心率……早上医生会过来查房，根据每个人的情况开一些药物。
Here, the nurse takes our temperature, blood oxygen saturation, heart rate every day... The doctor comes in the morning to check the room and prescribe medication according to each person's condition.
我进来的第1天晚上，有一群女病友自发地在那里唱歌，比如唱《我和我的祖国》、《隐形的翅膀》，也有很多人拍视频。
On the first night I came in, a group of female patients spontaneously sang songs like "Me and My Motherland," "Invisible Wings," and many people made videos.
病人多，工作人员少，大家都是头一次，不完美之处自然是很多，但是能够理解这一点的人不多。
For the first time, with so many patients and so few staff, there are many imperfections, but not many people can understand that.
我现在是我们病区的小组长，可能是我之前管了很多闲事吧，比如去通下水道啦，去处理开水间的污水啦，向方舱临时党支部反馈卫生问题等等。
I'm the team leader in our sick area. Maybe I was involved in a lot of other things, such as going to the sewer, treating the sewage in the water closet, giving back to the temporary Party branch in the cabin about hygiene.
用于隔离的酒店环境我婆婆比我们病情都严重，2月15号被成功收入金银潭医院。
An isolated hotel environment My mother-in-law is more ill than we are. She was admitted to the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital on February 15th.
她在2月18日出现了咳血的症状，但是医生给的回复说，她现在是在一个恢复期，她咳得太久了，可能肺部一些毛细血管受到了受伤，所以会有一些咳血的现象。
She developed symptoms of hemoptysis on February 18, but the doctor replied that she was now in a convalescent period and that she had coughed up too long and might have had some blood capillaries in her lungs, so there was some hemoptysis.
我公公因为是密切接触者，现在已经在酒店进行隔离了。
My father-in-law has been quarantined at the hotel because he was in close contact with him.
孩子依然在那个阿姨家。
The child is still at the aunt's house.
小月丈夫与婆婆的视频记录5口人，分隔四地，每天都花很长时间在视频通话上。
The video recording of her husband and mother-in-law shows five people separated into four places and spending a lot of time on video calls each day.
小月已经有2周没有见到女儿了每次和女儿视频，她一直重复一句话：“我想回家，我想跟爸爸妈妈在一起。
"I want to go home. I want to be with my parents," she repeated each time.
”因为女儿提出的诉求，我老公无法满足，这激发了他的无力感，他就有了应激的反应，他说的最重的一句话就是威胁我女儿：“你再哭我就不要你了。
My husband's inability to satisfy his daughter's demands stimulated his powerlessness, and he reacted with stress, threatening my daughter with the heaviest thing he could say: "If you cry again, I won't want you.
”我就拿过手机对我女儿说：“你不要听爸爸的，不管怎么样妈妈都爱你，妈妈都会跟你在一起。
"I took the phone and said to my daughter," You don't want to listen to Dad.
”我女儿就说：“我也要跟你一起到医院来。
"My daughter said," I'm coming with you to the hospital, too.
”我就跟她说：“这有很多病毒，你来了，你的身体会受到伤害。
I told her, "There are a lot of viruses in it, and when you come, your body is going to be damaged.
你在天上选中我做你的妈妈，我们相遇多么不容易。
You chose me in heaven to be your mother. How difficult it was for us to meet.
如果你死了，我怎么办。
What do I do if you're dead?
”她说：“你可以再把我生出来。
"You may have me born again," she said.
”我说：“万一不是你怎么办？万一你没有选中我当你妈妈怎么办？（哭）”我和女儿说这句话的时候，并没有哭。
I said, "What if it wasn't you? What if you didn't choose me to be your mother?" (Crying) My daughter and I didn't cry when we said that.
我一直努力地维持着自己的情绪，我婆婆一直觉得这件事情是因她而起，自己是个罪人，压力会比较大。
I have been trying to maintain their mood, my mother-in-law has always felt that this is because of her, he is a sinner, more pressure.
我老公本身性格就属于很直爽、脾气火爆的那种人，思念女儿让他也很痛苦。
My husband's personality itself belongs to a very straightforward, hot-tempered kind of people, missing his daughter let him very painful.
我就像一个容器，承接着家人们的情绪。
I was like a container, carrying on the emotions of my family.
那个时候，我就跟自己说：我要稳住。
At that time, I said to myself: I want to calm down.
确诊是最重要的在方舱医院安顿下来的当天，我就开始处理我婆婆病友的困境，他们两个被“卡”在社区医院了。
The most important day I settled down at the cabin hospital, I began to deal with the plight of my mother-in-law, both of whom were "stuck" in the community hospital.
一个62岁的阿姨，ct显示双肺感染，核酸结果是阴性。
A 62-year-old aunt, Ct, showed two lung infections and negative nucleic acid results.
但是她在核酸结果出来之前，社区就把她接走了。
But before the nucleic acid came out, the community picked her up.
因为是阴性，所以一直不能转到方舱医院。
Because is negative, therefore cannot transfer to the square cabin hospital forever.
卡在了社区服务中心以后，社区医院也没有能力提供检查，又不能做进一步的确诊，用她自己比较极端的话来说就是，没有人管她。
Once in the community service centre, the community hospital did not have the capacity to provide a check-up or to make a further diagnosis and, in her own extreme words, nobody cared about her.
从我自己经历来说，我就很清楚应该怎么来解决了。
From my own experience, I knew exactly what to do.
其实只需要社区派一辆车，接她去医院，再做一次核酸。
All it takes is a car from the community, pick her up at the hospital, and do nucleic acid again.
如果是阳性，就去方舱医院，如果是阴性的话，就到酒店接受隔离。
If it is positive, go to the cabin hospital, if it is negative, go to the hotel to be isolated.
后来通过我们的网格员，我知道了他们社区一个书记的电话。
Later, through our grid staff, I learned about the phone call of a secretary in their community.
当时书记情绪也很激动，就说现在安排不了车，然后也没有车，她算是轻症，让她等着之类的。
At that time, the secretary was also very excited, said that now can not arrange the car, then there is no car, she is a mild illness, let her wait and so on.
在服务人员眼里，总是有个轻重缓急，但事情放在自己的身上，是很难接受自己被“缓”的。
In the eyes of the service personnel, there is always a priority, but things on their own, it is difficult to accept that they are "slow."
两边，其实我都特别能理解。
On both sides, in fact, I understand.
我比较锲而不舍吧，就到处打电话，武汉市民热线、武昌疾控中心、应急指挥部、记者、社区、街道，就一个个打。
More perseverance, I called everywhere, Wuhan city hotline, Wuchang CDC, emergency command, journalists, communities, streets, one by one.
2月16日晚上，书记给我回复了一个电话说第二天早上会派车过去。
On the evening of February 16, the clerk answered a call saying that a car would be sent the next morning.
中间还闹了小插曲，车子一直没有等来。
There was a hiccup in the middle, and the car never waited.
我就又打了一通电话，后来在18号做了核酸，是阴性，现在在酒店集中隔离了。
I made another phone call, then made nucleic acid on the 18th, negative, now concentrated in the hotel isolation.
方舱医院给2月生的病友过生日负面情绪如瘟疫，理性应对很重要还有一位姓叶的阿姨，被留在社区医院5天了，她非常着急。
The hospital gave birth to a sick person in February, negative emotions such as plague, rational response is important, and an aunt named Ye was left in the community hospital for five days, she was very anxious.
阿姨患有乳腺癌，而新冠肺炎其实是轻症，但是因为有乳腺癌，方舱不敢接收，又没有其他医院收她。
Auntie breast cancer, but the new crown pneumonia is light, but because of breast cancer, the cabin dare not accept, and no other hospital to receive her.
按照原定的乳腺癌治疗计划，在两周以前就应该要接受第12次靶向治疗了。
According to the original breast cancer treatment plan, the 12th targeted treatment was due two weeks ago.
但是因为疫情，武汉市的正常生活已经全部瘫痪了，你去医院除了看新冠肺炎，没有其他科室给你看病。
But due to the epidemic, Wuhan city's normal life has been completely paralyzed, you go to the hospital except to see the new crown pneumonia, no other departments to see you.
她就非常焦虑自己的乳腺癌会复发。
She is very anxious that her breast cancer will recur.
我做了这么几件事情，我从微信上了解到武汉当地报社记者的一个求助电话，还有武昌市民热线，以及社区的一个座机电话。
I have done so many things, I learned from the letter Wuhan local newspaper reporters, there is Wuchang Citizen Hotline, as well as a community landline phone.
然后每天帮她打电话去反映这个情况。
Then call her every day to report the situation.
其实社区作为基层，他们的工作压力也很大，每天要面对辖区里面这么多患者，不光是情绪安抚，还有各种情况的处理和反馈。
In fact, the community as a grass-roots level, their work pressure is also very high, daily to face the jurisdiction of so many patients, not only emotional pacification, but also a variety of situations and feedback.
武汉人讲话都不是很好听的，就像要吵架一样。
Wuhan people are not very pleasant to speak, as if to quarrel.
理性在这些时刻还是特别重要的，你要直接告诉别人，你现在遇到什么样的困难，你有什么样的诉求。
Reason is especially important at these times. You have to tell others directly what kind of difficulties you are having and what kind of claims you have.
可是很多上了年纪的人，在沟通时更多的是宣泄自己的负面情绪，不能够去跟工作人员沟通自己的处境。
But many older people, when communicating, are more likely to express their negative feelings and not be able to communicate with staff about their situation.
当时社区的工作人员跟我说话的时候，其实也挺不耐烦的，他说：“她的情况已经上报了100次了，我们也响应了100次。
When the community workers spoke to me, they were impatient, saying, "She's been reported 100 times and we've responded 100 times.
”他们肯定也挺讨厌我这样多管闲事的人的。
They must hate me for meddling, too.
2月17日，叶阿姨跟我说，她已经被中南医院收治了。
On February 17, Aunt Ye told me that she had been admitted to Zhongnan Hospital.
家庭最新现状：截止2月29日，我婆婆目前已经从金银潭医院出院了，被隔离在学校的宿舍中，需要等待14天，最后会再测一次核酸，如果是阴性，即可回家。
Family Update: As of February 29, my mother-in-law had been discharged from the Golden and Silver Pool Hospital, isolated in the school dormitory, and had to wait 14 days before finally taking another nucleic acid test and returning home if she was negative.
今天我也从方舱出来了，一样需要隔离再观察。
Today, I came out of the cabin, too. I need isolation and observation.
丈夫依然在方舱里，基本已经康复了。
The husband was still in the cabin and had basically recovered.
想要出院，必须做CT、血液测试和核酸测试。
CT, blood tests and nucleic acid tests are required to get out of the hospital.
如果CT显示肺部有明显的好转，血液测试也通过，并且连续两次核酸呈阴性才能出院。
If the CT showed a clear improvement in the lungs, blood tests passed and nucleic acids were negative twice in a row before being released.
我丈夫目前还不符合条件。
My husband is not up to par right now.
公公结束了酒店的隔离，在2月29日回到了家中。
Father-in-law ended the isolation of the hotel and returned home on 29 February.
孩子在阿姨家呆了17天了，都安好。
The child stayed at his aunt's house for 17 days and was all right.
等全家康复，疫情结束后，我就想接女儿回家，好好亲亲她。
When the family recovers and the epidemic is over, I want to take my daughter home and kiss her well.
▼。
Why don't we do it?
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一个武汉中产家庭的抗疫史：一夜之间全家沦陷。
An Anti-epidemic History of Middle-class Families in Wuhan: Whole Families Fall Overnight.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "一条";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "一个武汉中产家庭的抗疫史：一夜之间全家沦陷";。
var msg _ title = & quot; a middle-class Wuhan family's history of resistance: & nbsp; & quot; & quot; & quot; overnight.
var title ="一条";。
var title = & quot; & quot; a & quot;;
