中国首位确诊新冠肺炎的一线记者：除了狗，我全家都被感染了。
China's first front-line reporter to confirm pneumonia: My entire family has been infected, except for dogs.
点击右边星标。
Click the star on the right.
一条                      。
One article.
一条。
One article.
每天一条原创短视频，每天讲述一个动人的故事，每天精选人间美物，每天来和我一起过美好的生活。
Every day an original short video, tell a moving story every day, select the best things in the world, and come and live a good life with me every day.
。
.
1月29日，我们发布了文章《媒体不死！武汉一线记者口述实录》，没想到几天之后，凤凰卫视特约记者、武汉人敖慕麟一家三口就相继出现新冠肺炎的病症，他本人也成为首位，从感染病毒到逐渐康复的一线新闻工作者。
On January 29, we released the article The Media Does Not Die! Wuhan First-Line Journalist Oral Record, but a few days later, Phoenix TV reporter and Wuhan Ao Mulin family developed symptoms of pneumonia, and he himself became the first frontline journalist to gradually recover from the virus.
敖慕麟在武汉接受一条采访敖慕麟的求助信息在网络上获得关注患病早期，他们和大多数在武汉本地的患者一样，经历了看病难、确诊难、入院难的困境，我们在后台接到无数读者的询问，听说敖慕麟找不到床位，他们全家怎么样了？目前，慕麟和妈妈正在家中隔离，而爸爸仍然留在ICU病房。
In the early days of illness, they, like most local Wuhan patients, experienced difficulties in seeing a doctor, diagnosing and hospitalizing them, and we received innumerable inquiries backstage from readers about how the family was doing when he and his mother were being quarantined in their homes while their father remained in the ICU ward.
几天前，我们和敖慕麟取得联系，那天刚好是他父亲的生日，他说：“现在最希望是爸爸能够康复回家，之后给他补办一顿生日宴。
A few days ago, we contacted Ao Moolin, who happened to be on his father's birthday, and said, "Now I want Dad to get well enough to go home and have a birthday party for him afterwards.
”自述敖慕麟 编辑莫竣威敖慕麟（左一）与摄像师1月23日封城后，武汉天气冻得厉害。
The weather in Wuhan is freezing after self-portraying the editor of O-Gon Moo Wei Moolin (first from left) and cameraman who seal the city on January 23.
白天气温跌至接近零度，而且还不时下雨，这种湿冷下，体感的温度可能比零度还要低。
During the day, the temperature drops to near zero and it rains from time to time. In this cold, humid climate, the temperature may be even lower than zero.
也就是这一天，我开始作为香港凤凰卫视的特约记者，为他们做了一段时间的前线采访报道，主要关注封城后，整个市面的各种情况。
It was on this day that I began to work as a stringer for Hong Kong Phoenix Television, covering the front line for a while, focusing on the whole market after the closure.
香港凤凰卫视新闻中心，敖慕麟曾在此工作我是武汉人，这里是我的家乡。
Hong Kong Phoenix Satellite TV News Centre, where O-Gon used to work I am from Wuhan, this is my hometown.
其实我在2016年已经离开凤凰卫视了，这次武汉封城以后，是前同事联系我，希望我可以以特约记者的身份，协助他们做一些武汉市面的现场报道。
In fact, I have left the Phoenix Satellite TV in 2016, this time Wuhan after the closure of the former colleagues contact me, I hope that as a reporter, I can help them do some Wuhan City live coverage.
我在香港工作和生活了差不多10年，之前在台里做过港闻记者，后来在凤凰卫视资讯台担任新闻主编一职。
I worked and lived in Hong Kong for almost 10 years. I worked as a Hong Kong correspondent before and worked as a news editor at the Phoenix TV Information Desk.
2011年本·拉登之死、2014年马航MH370失踪事件、2015年的巴黎连环恐袭等等，我都参与过新闻节目的统筹和策划工作。
I was involved in the co-ordination and planning of news programs, including bin Laden's death in 2011, Ma'alia's MH370's disappearance in 2014, and the Paris serial terror attacks in 2015.
敖慕麟曾是凤凰卫视记者武汉封城后的前两天，都是我自己拿着自拍杆、手机，一个人在街上完成报道。
Olmoulin used to be the Phoenix TV reporter Wuhan after the first two days, are my own racket, mobile phone, a person in the street to complete the story.
之后几经周折，我联络到一位摄影师刘亦农，我们就组成了一个报道小分队：我负责采访出镜，阿农负责摄影，我爸帮我开车。
After much ado, I contacted a photographer, Liu YiNong, and we formed a reporting team: I was in charge of the audition, Anon was in charge of the photography, and my dad was driving for me.
我们主要关注武汉封城之初，市面交通和生活的状况。
We are mainly concerned with the city of Wuhan at the beginning of the market traffic and living conditions.
那天下着小雨，市面上人很少，当时连接江岸区和武昌区的长江隧道关闭了，我站在宽广的武汉大道，偶尔看到有车辆飞驰而过，路面有点湿滑，地面的反光映着几个大字：“出城通道封闭，敬请谅解”。
At that time, the Yangtze River tunnel connecting the Jiangxi and Wuchang districts was closed. I stood on the broad Wuhan Boulevard, occasionally seeing vehicles galloping along the slippery road and the reflection of the ground reflecting in big letters: "Out of the city closed, please forgive me."
这就是武汉大年三十的傍晚。
This is the evening of Wuhan New Year's Eve.
另一个是去了解物资供应情况，我去了麦德龙超市，也去了几家药房，起初口罩药物还是相对充足的，我采访了药店的老板，他卖的一次性外科口罩50个/盒，50块，他就对我说了一句，这个价格肯定跟平时一样，我们关键的时候肯定不会“发国难财”。
I went to Metro and a couple of pharmacies. At first, the mask medication was relatively plentiful. I interviewed the drugstore owner, who sold 50 disposable surgical masks for 50 yuan.
走访过的药店总之，武汉这个城市，是进入了一个前所未有的状态。
The drugstore visited in a word, Wuhan, this city, is entering an unprecedented state.
在特约记者这个身份之外，我只是个普通的武汉市民，仅有的外出防护装备就只有口罩。
In addition to the status of a freelance reporter, I am just an ordinary Wuhan city, the only protective equipment out there is only masks.
我在选定采访地点的时候，已经非常谨慎：不去医院，尽量选择人流不太密集、比较通风的地方，工作回家后第一时间进行全身消毒。
When I chose the interview site, I had been very careful not to go to the hospital, try to choose less crowded, more ventilated places, work home after the first time for general disinfection.
没想到这样，还是受到了感染。
I didn't expect it. I got infected.
敖慕麟在武汉市区报道新闻（影像来源：凤凰卫视）“如何感染、在哪里感染，我完全没有任何头绪”1月26号天气依然不好，自己的身体特别冷，也感觉有点累。
"I don't have any clue how and where I got the infection," O-Gon said in a report in Wuhan city. "January 26 is still a bad day, and he is very cold and tired.
这几天，手机、电脑、电视等一切媒介，关于疫情的信息密集轰炸。
These days, mobile phones, computers, television and all other media, information about the outbreak of intensive bombing.
我想每个在武汉的人，心里都会默默问自己：我得了吗？我有可能得吗？当晚，母亲告诉我，她感觉自己有一点发热。
I think everyone in Wuhan, the heart will silently ask themselves: I got it? Can I get it? That night, my mother told me that she felt a little feverish.
用体温计测过体温发现超过了37度。
The thermometer was found to be over 37 degrees.
我马上警觉了起来，当时我让她先服用了一些退烧药，回房间进行休息。
I was immediately alerted when I asked her to take some antipyretics and go back to her room for a rest.
1月27日晚的武汉某社区，群众高叫“武汉加油”1月27日，很多人响应微信群的号召，在家自发打开窗户，高唱国歌、高叫口号，一声声凄厉的叫喊 “武汉加油”、“武汉加油”回荡在夜幕之下，悲壮又动容。
Wuhan on the night of January 27, the crowd shouted "Wuhan refueling" January 27, many people responded to the call of micro-letter groups, spontaneous open windows, singing the national anthem, shouting slogans, a shrill cry "Wuhan refueling," "Wuhan refueling," echoed in the dark, solemn and moving face.
后来这种行为被劝止了，因为大家都对着室外大声呼喊，会增加受感染的风险。
This behaviour was later discouraged, as everyone shouted outside, increasing the risk of infection.
当晚，终于连我也开始出现发烧的症状。
That night, even I began to develop symptoms of fever.
我们有担心，但没有恐慌。
We were worried, but not panicked.
初期，我和母亲的症状都比较轻，只有轻度的发烧。
At first, my mother and I had mild symptoms, only a mild fever.
甚至有一天晚上我没有感觉到任何的不适，但测了一下体温依然是37度以上。
I didn't even feel any discomfort one night, but my temperature was still above 37 degrees.
我们知道武汉市的前线医疗资源非常紧张，任何一间医院的发热门诊，都处于爆满状态，所以我们不敢贸然去医院，打算先自我在家隔离，一日三餐就由父亲负责。
We know that the front-line medical resources in Wuhan are very tight. The fever clinic in any hospital is full, so we dare not go to the hospital.
对于如何感染、在哪里感染，我完全没有任何头绪。
I don't have any idea how or where to get infected.
我试图回想走过的地方、见过的人，但始终我们不知道敌人在哪，它到底有多大规模，也不完全清楚它的传播途径。
I try to think back to where I went, to the people I met, but we never knew where the enemy was, how large it was, or how it spread.
点击图片，重温敖慕麟在武汉封城初期的采访经历▲冒着风险出去采访，我当时只有一个想法，就是我需要把信息传递出去，这是责任，然后就这么去做了。
Click on the picture, re-examine the interview in the early part of the city of Wuhan at the risk of going out interview, I had only one idea, I need to send the message out, it is the responsibility, and then do it.
直到28号左右，我父亲也开始发热，并伴有肌肉酸痛和全身乏力这些新冠肺炎的典型症状。
Until around the 28th, my father also had a fever, accompanied by muscle aches and general fatigue, the typical symptoms of Newcrown Pneumonia.
我开始变得非常担心。
I began to get very worried.
我无法判断，接下来的病情会如何发展？我们一家人会怎么样？“没有床位、120救护车要等4小时，我真的等不起”父亲的情况比较严重，我需要想办法作进一步的检查和确诊，但当时我了解到的情况是，有很大部分人因为对疫情不了解，心里恐慌，一旦出现任何病症，都跑去定点医院希望做个检查，多家大型医院的发热门诊，排队等待的人已经排到室外。
I couldn't tell what would happen next? What happened to our family? "No beds, 120 ambulances had to wait four hours, I really couldn't wait." My father's condition was serious, and I needed to find out how many people wanted a check-up.
1月26日，武汉出台措施，由社区卫生院负责新冠肺炎病人筛查工作（图片来源：武汉市卫健委网站）而我记得在之前采访中曾经报道过一则这样的消息：为了缓解前线的医疗压力，武汉发动社区卫生院对发热市民进行筛查，如发现有新冠肺炎疑似或严重病例，才会转诊到上一级的定点医院进行收治。
Wuhan launched measures on January 26 to screen patients for pneumonia (source: Wuhan Health Commission website) and I recall that in an earlier interview, Wuhan launched a community health centre to screen people with fever in order to ease medical pressure on the front line. If a suspected or serious case of pneumonia is found, it is referred to a higher-level designated hospital for treatment.
所以当时我就决定先去街道的卫生院做检查。
So I decided to go to the street clinic for a check-up.
29号早上我们一家人开车过去，大概10分钟就到了。
In the morning of the 29th, our family drove by and about ten minutes later.
这里地方不大，就两层楼，但比起定点医院，这里排队的人不算多，目测大概十几个左右吧，而所有的医护人员，都已经穿上了防护服。
There's not much room here, just two floors, but there's not a lot of people in line here, about a dozen or so, and all the paramedics are already wearing protective clothing.
因为这是武汉肺炎爆发以来，我第一次进入医疗结构，出于职业的本能驱使，我还询问了一下护士们的工作状态和物资情况。
Since this was the first time that I had entered the medical structure since the outbreak of pneumonia in Wuhan, I asked the nurses about their working status and material conditions.
她们当时回答说情况还好。
They replied that the situation was good.
街道卫生院的医疗设备有限，我们只拍了X光，做了血常规的检测。
The medical facilities at the street health centre were limited and we had only X-rays and routine blood tests.
因为人不多，不到半个小时就拿到了结果，显示三人血常规的指标存在异常，我和我母亲的问题稍微轻一点，而我父亲当场就已经被医生要求说，必须要作进一步的检查。
As there were not many people, the results were obtained in less than half an hour, showing that there was an anomaly in the trio's blood routines, that my mother and I had a slightly lighter problem, and that my father had been asked by the doctor on the spot that further tests were needed.
如果按照标准的流程，我父亲这时候应该由街道卫生院安排，统一组织转送到定点医院接受诊治。
If according to the standard procedure, my father should then be arranged by the street health center, unified organization to receive treatment in designated hospitals.
但是医生直接告诉我：“医院转运的交通工具是120，因为运力不足，如果你们要等，起码4小时。
But the doctor told me directly: "The hospital transshipment is 120, because the capacity is not enough, if you have to wait, at least four hours.
”敖慕麟自我隔离期间服用的部分药品我觉得我等不起，即便到了医院，也需要排队做检查，在不了解定点医院的情况下，我不想冒着交叉感染的风险去医院排队。
Some of the medicines O-Gon took during his self-imposed isolation I felt I could not afford to wait. Even when I got to the hospital, I had to stand in line for an examination, and I did not want to risk cross-infection to go to the hospital.
所以我在卫生院开了一点奥司他韦，也就是达菲，一种流感的特效药，之后去药店买点阿莫西林、一些中成药、解毒胶囊之类的。
So I opened a little oseltamivir, or Tamiflu, a special agent for influenza, and went to the drugstore to buy some amoxicillin, some proprietary Chinese medicines, antidote capsules, and so on.
然后先自行回家休息。
Then go home and have a rest.
当天晚上，我父亲的情况不是很理想，身体变得虚弱。
That night, my father's condition was not ideal and he became weak.
在我不断打听之下，终于了解到武汉第三医院光谷院区可以做CT，人也不多。
In my constant inquiry, finally learned that Wuhan Third Hospital Guanggu courtyard area can do CT, there are not many people.
我家住在汉口，医院在武昌，当天晚上我们就开车，从城市的一端到另一端去做检查。
My family lives in Hankou, the hospital is in Wuchang, that night we drove, from one end of the city to the other.
接诊敖慕麟的医生晚上医院的人不算多，很快就轮到我们。
The doctor who attended O-Gon's hospital was not crowded at night, and soon it was our turn.
接诊的医生，防护服上写着名字和三个字：萌萌哒。
The attending physician, the suit had a name and three words written on it: Meng Meng.
也许是医护人员之间，在互相鼓舞士气的一种方式吧。
Maybe it's a way for the staff to bring it on to each other.
CT的结果显示我们一家三口肺部都有感染，父母是双肺感染，我是单肺感染。
CT results show that all three of our families have lung infections, my parents have two lung infections, and I have a single lung infection.
医生说父亲的情况必须马上入院治疗。
The doctor said the father's condition must be admitted to hospital immediately.
但是他们这里没有床位，没办法收治。
But they don't have beds. They can't take care of them.
我们只能按照医生开的处方去买药、去吃药，按照医嘱三天后复诊。
We can only follow the doctor's prescription to buy medicine, to take medicine, according to the doctor's advice after three days.
从1月30日到2月1日这三天，一家人都待在家中自我隔离。
For three days, from January 30 to February 1, the family stayed at home and isolated themselves.
一个人待在一个房间，在家都戴着口罩。
A person is in a room, wearing a mask at home.
饭菜都是自己做自己的，然后各自端到房间里面自己吃，尽量避免近距离的接触和交流。
The food was cooked on their own, then brought to the room to eat their own, try to avoid close contact and communication.
这三天我也尝试去联系一些医院和朋友，看是否能为父亲争取到入院的床位。
Over the past three days I have also tried to contact some hospitals and friends to see if I could secure a hospital bed for my father.
但面临一个问题：我们只做了CT，还没有确诊。
But there's a problem: We only had a CT scan, but we haven't diagnosed it yet.
按照当时的流程，只有核酸检测呈阳性，才能确诊为新型肺炎，才有资格住院。
At that time, only those who tested positive for nucleic acid could be diagnosed with new pneumonia to qualify for hospitalization.
但各种消息都在告诉我们，做检测的资格很紧俏。
But all kinds of news are telling us that the qualification for testing is very tight.
三天后也就是2月1日，我们再到医院复诊，照了CT也查了血。
Three days later, on February 1, we went back to the hospital for a second visit, took a CT scan and looked for blood.
显示我和父亲的感染面积仍在扩大。
It shows that my father and I are still getting infected.
医生还是要求我父亲马上住院，但是他们仍然没有床位，最后我们也就只能够接受输液治疗。
The doctors asked my father to be hospitalized right away, but they still didn't have beds and eventually we could only get transfusion treatment.
医院排队缴费的人“从有希望到失望我筋疲力尽，但没有绝望”我完全没有想到自己到了这样一个无助的地步。
The people in the queue at the hospital were "exhausted from hope to disappointment, but I didn't despair." I had no idea that I had reached such a helpless situation.
眼看父亲身体越来越虚弱，我实在没有办法，只能尝试找原来的同事和朋友，跟他们讲了我自己的经历和情况。
Seeing my father getting weaker and weaker, I had no choice but to try to find my former colleagues and friends and tell them about my own experiences and circumstances.
看能不能找到相关资源可以让父亲住进医院。
See if we can find the resources to put my father in the hospital.
“医生建议我父亲因指标较危急，需住院。
"The doctor advised my father to be hospitalized because the indicators were critical.
恳请领导联络有关医疗资源，安排我父亲入院，万分感谢。
Kindly contact the medical resources and arrange my father's admission. Thank you very much.
”敖慕麟的求助信息，2月1日晚在朋友圈传播从2月1日当晚8点开始一直到半夜，我的求助信息一直被不同的人在朋友圈转发：有朋友、有老同学，还有网络上的大V账号，很多媒体同行把我的求助信息转发到微博，引起了很大的关注。
In the evening of February 1, when O-Gon's call for help spread through his circle of friends from 8 p.m. on February 1 to midnight, my help messages have been relayed by people from different circles of friends: friends, old classmates and large V accounts on the Internet.
港台媒体机构如《明报》、《HK01》、《中时电子报》在第二天的报刊中也转载了我的经历。
RTHK media organizations such as Ming Pao Daily, HK01, Zhongtiao E-News also reprinted my experience in the press the following day.
媒体对敖慕麟的情况进行报道当晚敖慕麟的微信收到各种消息之后我的手机一直在响，打到都快没电了。
News reports on the situation in Ao Moolin that evening came after the news that my cell phone had been ringing and running out of electricity.
微信上不停地有好友给我发来消息和慰问，也有很多人添加我好友，因为消息太多，连里面的新消息提示都不显示数字了，直接是三个点，根本回不过来。
On the micro-letter, there are always friends to send me messages and solicitude, and many people add my friends, because there is so much news that even the new message inside does not display the figures, directly three points, can not come back.
朋友们很热心，给我发来了很多他们所知道的消息。
The friends were so warm-hearted that they sent me a lot of information they knew.
不少人告诉我蔡甸区的同济医院中法新城院区刚刚完成新改造，有600-700张床位，专门收治肺炎病人，那边也可以做到核酸检测，还附上了联络电话。
Many people told me that the Tongji Hospital in Cai Den has just completed a new renovation, 600-700 beds dedicated to treating patients with pneumonia, where nucleic acid testing can also be done, along with a contact telephone.
我拨打了医院那边的座机，但根本没人接听。
I dialed the hospital's landline, but no one answered.
但眼下的情况，已经不容许我再等了。
But in the circumstances, it is no longer permissible for me to wait.
我决定第二天还是先去医院那边试一试。
I decided to try the hospital the next day.
武汉某医院的急诊科过道（图片来源：向凯）2月2日，早上10点我们就到了那边。
Wuhan hospital emergency department aisle (Source: toward Kai) February 2, 10 a.m. we arrived there.
发热门诊已经是人满为患了，走道上密密麻麻全部是人，很多患者只能在室外进行输液，也有人在露天的环境下等待入院。
The fever clinic is already overcrowded, the aisles are crowded with people, many patients can only be infusion outdoors, but also in the open environment waiting to be hospitalized.
那天武汉的气温大概8度左右，风很大。
Wuhan that day the temperature about 8 degrees, the wind is very strong.
我亲眼看见一个年纪较大的女士，她坐在轮椅上，身上盖着几层很厚的被子，就在室外等着被安排床位，不知道还要多久。
I saw an older woman sitting in a wheelchair, covered with thick quilts, waiting outside to be put in bed, for an unknown length of time.
要做核酸检测，就必须先挂号，但医院没有人工挂号窗口，只能通过自助挂号机去完成。
Nucleic acid testing must be registered, but hospitals do not have manual registration windows, can only be done through self-registration machines.
我让爸妈先留在车里面等我，自己一个人去排队。
I told my parents to stay in the car and wait for me, so I could stand in line alone.
发热门诊的自助挂号机就在室外门口处，当时只有十几个人在我面前排队。
The self-service register at the fever clinic was just outside the door, and only a dozen people lined up in front of me.
但是，整条队就一直僵持着，根本没有动过。
But the whole team remained deadlocked and unmoved.
我也不敢走开，因为只有这个办法可以挂上号，哪怕做到核酸检测，已经算是一个进步了。
And I'm afraid to go away, because that's the only way to put a label on it, even if it's an improvement on nucleic acid testing.
武汉某医院的候诊大厅（图片来源：向凯）然而，我从早上10点多一直排到下午3点，超过四个小时，机器就没有一个号放出来。
Waiting rooms at a hospital in Wuhan (Source: Xiang Kai) However, I waited from more than 10 a.m. until 3 p.m., more than four hours later, none of the machines were released.
我身边全部是发热病人，他们都在那儿等着。
I was surrounded by feverish patients, and they were waiting.
排队的人逐渐离开，在我前面就只剩下一对夫妻，他们两个人就这样轮流，在机器面前不停地去点击屏幕，不断地刷新页面，希望能够在第一时间拿到号去看病。
The line gradually left, and there was only one couple left in front of me. They took turns clicking on the screen in front of the machine, constantly updating the page, hoping to get the number to see the doctor in the first place.
但四个小时，没有任何收获。
But for four hours, nothing came of it.
武汉某医院的候诊大厅（图片来源：向凯）后来我了解到，因为病人太多，医院根本没办法消化，所以当日后续再也没有继续放号了。
Wuhan hospital waiting hall (picture: to Kay) I later learned that because there were too many patients, the hospital simply could not digest, so no further on the day after.
虽然我没有绝望，但就这样在户外白白折腾了一天，我没有拿到号，也没有得到确诊，更谈不上什么治疗，真的让我很沮丧，很彷徨。
Although I did not despair, but I spent a day in the open air, I did not get a number, not to mention the diagnosis, let alone treatment, really let me very depressed, very hesitant.
加上我开始出现了严重的咳嗽，当时终于体会到什么是筋疲力尽。
Plus I began to have a bad cough, and I finally realized what exhaustion was.
我没有任何想法，只想赶紧回家休息，吃点东西补充体力，再想想下一步该怎么办。
I didn't have any idea. I just wanted to get home and get some food to refresh myself and think about what to do next.
敖慕麒的求助信息被大量转发无奈之下，我只有再一次向认识的人寻求帮助。
Odor Yee's help message was forwarded to a large number of helpless, I only once again to ask for help from people I know.
当晚又再有新一轮的信息不断涌过来。
That night another round of messages poured in.
但我实在太累了，已经接不动电话，后来我的大学同学帮我做对接。
But I was too tired to answer the phone, and then my college classmate helped me with the docking.
当中有很多朋友在外地发来消息，不过他们并不了解武汉的情况，就像今天的遭遇一样，那些医院是接诊的，但需要碰运气，需要等。
Many of them sent messages from other places, but they did not know the situation in Wuhan. As in today's case, the hospitals were treated but needed luck and wait.
很显然，我父亲当时的情况，已经不适合这样了。
Obviously, my father's situation was not right for this anymore.
庆幸的是，这天终于联系到比较明确的核酸检测和入院信息，2月3日我们三个人一起去医院做了检测。
Fortunately, the day was finally linked to more specific nucleic acid testing and admission information, February 3 we all went to the hospital for a test.
当时我父亲的检测结果是阳性，直接被收入院，而我和母亲是轻症，只需回家自我隔离，按时服药治疗。
My father tested positive and was admitted directly to the hospital, while my mother and I were mild enough to go home and isolate ourselves and take regular medication.
武汉金银潭医院是新冠肺炎的定点收治医院我和母亲自行康复，父亲却仍然在ICU接受治疗就这样，这段时间我和母亲一直留在家里按时服药，正常生活。
Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital is the designated hospital for New Crown Pneumonia. My mother and I are still receiving treatment in the ICU.
目前体温已经恢复正常并维持两个礼拜了。
The temperature has returned to normal for two weeks now.
其他症状也慢慢消失。
Other symptoms are slowly disappearing.
2月15日，武汉下了一场大雪2月15日，我们和她的最新核酸检测结果为阴性，证明呼吸道现在未监测到有病毒。
On Feb. 15, Wuhan, a heavy snow February 15, we and her latest nucleic acid test results are negative, proof that the respiratory tract is not currently detected by the virus.
不过湖北在12日改变了新冠肺炎的确诊标准，将临床诊断病例纳入确诊病例，所以根据CT复查结果，我是被确诊患上新型肺炎。
However, Hubei changed the diagnosis standard of new crown pneumonia on the 12th, the clinical diagnosis case will be included in the confirmed case, so according to CT review results, I was diagnosed with the new pneumonia.
最近，区里的相关部门经常打电话来询问我家人的身体情况。
Recently, authorities in the district often called to ask about my family's health.
每次打来都问同样的问题，我问做这些统计后续是否会有配套的支援安排？打电话的目的是什么？为什么三番五次同一个部门问同一个问题？对方回答说：“会上报等上面安排，是上面领导让打的。
Every time I call the same question, do I ask if there are any support arrangements for these statistics? What is the purpose of the call? Why do the same department ask the same question over and over again?
” 封城已经一个多月了，不知道还有多少人力资源花费在这样的统计上。
The city has been closed for more than a month, and it is not known how many human resources are still spent on such statistics.
小区实施了封闭管理，出入处有人把守敖慕麟家窗外的风景，楼下是一排排停驶的公交车小区已经实施封闭管理一段时间了，外人不让进，居民要凭证出入，并且限制出行次数。
The neighbourhood is under closed management, with people guarding the scenery outside the O-O-Lun family window, row upon row of parked bus complexes downstairs having been closed for some time to outsiders, residents requiring access and limiting the number of trips.
购买物资很不方便。
It's very inconvenient to buy things.
前几天通过微信，向菜贩订了一些蔬菜，无鱼无肉，148元，包括4元一斤的大白菜、15元一斤的葱蒜、10元一斤的小葱、青椒和1.5元一个的鸡蛋。
A few days ago, I ordered some vegetables from vegetable peddlers. No fish, no meat, 148 yuan, including 4 yuan a catty of Chinese cabbage, 15 yuan a catty of onion, 10 yuan a catty of green onions, green peppers and 1.5 yuan eggs.
价格都比平时至少翻了一番。
Prices have at least doubled from their usual levels.
街边小店一壶没有任何包装和生产信息的5斤装酒精售价138元。
Street corner store a pot without any packaging and production information for five bottles of alcohol selling for 138 yuan.
非常时期，涨价可以理解，但如果这成为常态，我想不是每个人都可以负担得起的。
The price rises are understandable in these exceptional times, but if that becomes the norm, I don't think everyone can afford it.
家里的泰迪犬中秋我家现在状态最好的是叫“中秋”的泰迪，她一如即往地爱恋她的球。
Mid-Autumn Family Teddy The best form of my family is now called "Mid-Autumn Festival" Teddy, she loved her ball as always.
只是每天可怜巴巴地蹲门口，似乎期待着我带她去楼下溜溜。
Just squatting at the door every day, as if expecting me to take her downstairs.
这段时间，我非常感谢老东家凤凰的领导和同事们提供的各种帮助和支援，以及母校人大的师长、校友和同学们的关心。
During this time, I am very grateful for the leadership and colleagues of the old Phoenix, as well as the alma mater teachers, alumni and students of the concern.
就连在香港一起居住过三年，没怎么正常讲过话的女室友，现在每天都给我发一大段信息，介绍香港抢厕纸的战况，给我鼓励为我祝福，真的很感动。
Even my roommate, who has lived in Hong Kong for three years and has not spoken normally, now sends me a big message every day about how Hong Kong is fighting over toilet paper.
我想那三年我们讲过的说话加起来，都没有这两周说得多。
I don't think all the things we said in those three years added up as much as the last two weeks.
今年的2月18日，是我父亲59岁的生日。
February 18th this year is my father's 59th birthday.
我祝他生日快乐，虽然他现在在病房里听不到，但我希望他能够度过这一个难关，回家后，我们一起吃饭，这是我现在最大的心愿。
I wish him a happy birthday, and though he can't hear him now in the hospital room, I hope he can get through this, and when he comes home, we will have dinner together, which is my greatest wish.
图片由敖慕麟、向凯提供封面摄影师：谢丹▼。
Why don't we go over there?
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
中国首位确诊新冠肺炎的一线记者：除了狗，我全家都被感染了。
China's first front-line reporter to confirm pneumonia: My entire family has been infected, except for dogs.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "一条";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "中国首位确诊新冠肺炎的一线记者：除了狗，我全家都被感染了";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '媒体不死！武汉一线记者口述实录',。
AT RATE & amp; DEATH! Wuhan first-line reporter dictates AT & amp; apos; s service.
subject_name: '一条',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;
var title ="一条";。
var title = & quot; & quot; a & quot;;
