武汉早期疫情上报为何一度中断。
Wuhan early outbreak reported why once interrupted.
杨海。
Yang Hai.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
2月29日，武汉市第一医院一位气管插管的新冠肺炎病人。
February 29, Wuhan City First Hospital, a trachea intubation of a patient with new crown pneumonia.
为了防止管道压在病人身上，护士用手套吹成一个气球，放在病人枕边，预防压疮。
To prevent the tube from pressing on the patient, the nurse blew a glove into a balloon and placed it next to the patient's pillow to prevent pressure ulcers.
气球上画了一张笑脸。
A smiling face was drawn on the balloon.
中青报·中青网见习记者李强/摄作者 | 中青报·中青网记者 杨海编辑 | 张国时间就是生命——“早发现、早报告、早隔离、早治疗”，中央反复强调的新冠肺炎疫情处置措施里，有4个“早”字。
Zhongqing News, Zhongqing News Network trainee journalist Li Qiang / photo writer & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; &
疫情发生后，中国疾控中心（又称“中国CDC”）对外介绍，2019年12月31日凌晨，中国疾控中心应急中心主任李群等9名专家乘当日最早航班从北京赶到了武汉。
In the early morning hours of December 31, 2019, nine experts, including Li Qun, director of China's CDC Emergency Center, arrived in Wuhan on the earliest flight of the day.
这一天，国家卫生健康委员会派出工作组、专家组赶赴武汉。
On this day, the National Health Council sent a working group and expert group to Wuhan.
当天午后，武汉市卫健委发出了有关“不明原因肺炎”疫情的首份通报：近期部分医疗机构发现接诊的多例肺炎病例与华南海鲜城有关联……已发现27例。
On the afternoon of the same day, Wuhan Health Commission issued its first report on the case of "unknown pneumonia": Recently, some medical institutions found many cases of pneumonia related to the South China Sea Fresh City... 27 cases were found.
2003年SARS疫情后，中央和地方财政共同出资7亿多元，建立了“中国传染病疫情和突发公共卫生事件网络直报系统”。
After the SARS epidemic in 2003, the central and local governments jointly funded more than 700 million yuan and established the China Communicable Disease Outbreak and Public Health Emergency Network Direct Reporting System.
这个“全球规模最大” “横向到边、纵向到底”的网络直报系统，为传染病疫情的“早报告”提供了基础，基层医疗机构只要在系统里上报信息，中国疾控中心就能实时收到。
This "global scale" "horizontal to side, vertical to bottom" network direct reporting system, provides the basis for the "early reporting" of infectious disease outbreaks, as long as the primary medical institutions report information in the system, China CDC can receive it in real time.
2019年6月，中国疾控中心主任高福在一个主题为“实现全民健康——全球公共卫生发展合作”的论坛上介绍，对于任何可疑的传染病，包括新发和再发的，国家卫健委在6个小时之内会立刻知道，“因为我们已经建立了覆盖全国全境的信息直报系统”。
In June 2019, Gao Fu, director of the China Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, told a forum on the theme "Achieving national health - global public health development cooperation." Any suspected infectious disease, including new or re-emerging infections, will be known immediately within six hours, "because we have a direct reporting system covering the whole country."
新冠肺炎疫情暴发后，公众普遍关心的一点是：去年12月和今年1月中上旬，疫情早期处置的关键时期，这个“纵向到底”的信息直报系统有没有接到过来自武汉的“早报告”？疾控专家在武汉华南海鲜市场调查。
In the wake of the outbreak of pneumonia, there was widespread public concern about whether the "vertical bottom-to-bottom" information direct reporting system had received an "early report" from Wuhan during the critical period of early disposal of the outbreak last December and early January.
图片来源/国家CDC官网1月上旬报告过，“不知道什么原因停下来了”被称为“疫情上报第一人”并因此受到湖北省“记大功”奖励的，是湖北省中西医结合医院呼吸内科主任张继先。
Zhang Jixian, director of respiratory medicine at Hubei Province Association of Chinese and Western Medicine, reported in early January that "somehow stopped" was called "the first person to be notified of the outbreak" and was thus honored by Hubei Province as "the best remembered feat."
她于2019年12月26日接诊了4个不明原因肺炎患者。
She was admitted to 4 patients with pneumonia due to unknown causes on 26 December 2019.
第二天，她向医院汇报，医院上报至武汉市江汉区疾控中心。
The next day, she reported to the hospital, the hospital reported to Wuhan Jianghan District CDC.
12月28日和29日，该院又陆续收治了3人。
On 28 and 29 December, three more persons were admitted to the hospital.
医院组织会诊后，向湖北省、武汉市卫健委疾控处报告。
Hospitals organized consultation, Hubei Province, Wuhan City Wei Jiaobian disease control office report.
省、市卫健委疾控处指示传染病专科医院金银潭医院和江汉区疾控中心前去开展流行病学调查。
The Provincial and Municipal Health Care and Disease Control Office instructed the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital and the Jianghan CDC to carry out epidemiological investigation.
根据金银潭医院副院长黄朝林的回忆，12月29日下午，武汉市卫健委电话通知他去湖北省中西医结合医院调查。
According to Huang Chaolin, vice-dean of the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, he was informed by telephone on December 29 that he was going to Hubei Province for investigation.
当天，7位病人中的6位转到了金银潭医院。
On the same day, six of the seven patients were transferred to the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
这是湖北省、武汉市迄今公布过的疫情早期报告过程，其中没有提到可在“6个小时内”直通国家卫健委的网络直报系统。
The report, published so far in Hubei and Wuhan, did not mention the possibility of "six hours' direct access to the National Health Commission's online direct reporting system.
早在2007年，原卫生部就曾发文要求，经省级专家组会诊不能明确诊断的聚集性不明原因肺炎病例，省级疾控机构要将标本送中国疾控中心进行检测。
As early as 2007, the former Ministry of Health had sent a communication requesting that samples of unexplained pneumonia, which could not be clearly diagnosed by provincial expert group consultations, be sent by the provincial CDC to the China CDC for testing.
据报道，2019年12月，武汉医院里采集的不同病例标本，曾被送往多家民营机构做过检测。
It was reported that in December 2019, samples of different cases collected in Wuhan hospitals had been sent to a number of private institutions for testing.
2020年1月2日，中国疾控中心才等到了来自武汉的第一份病例标本。
On January 2, 2020, China's CDC waited for the first specimen from Wuhan.
“时间就是生命，早一分钟检测，就能早一分钟做出结果。
"Time is life. One minute before a test, you can make a decision a minute early.
”中国疾控中心官网称，该中心接到标本后的研究，为确定新型冠状病毒这一病因，“提供了最为重要的实验室证据”。
The CDC website said the center's study after receiving the specimen "provides the most important laboratory evidence" for determining the cause of the new coronavirus.
中国疾控中心副主任冯子健告诉中国青年报·中国青年网记者，武汉通过“网络直报”方式上报不明原因肺炎病例，始于1月3日，大约在1月上旬后停止了。
Feng Zijian, deputy director of the China CDC, told China Youth Daily's China Youth Net that Wuhan, which began reporting cases of unexplained pneumonia on January 3 through a "direct internet newspaper," stopped about the first half of January.
冯子健说：“（去年）12月底、（今年）1月初，国家卫健委介入调查之后，要求武汉把病例通过网络直报报上来，有这个要求，他们确实报了，但是后来不知道什么原因又停下来了。
"At the end of December (last year) and the beginning of January (this year), Wuhan was asked to report the case directly through the Internet," Feng said.
”中国疾控中心原副主任杨功焕也对记者证实了上述说法。
Yang Kun-hwan, former deputy director of the China CDC, also told reporters.
她说，自己咨询过国家CDC相关人员，得知去年12月没有接到“直报”。
She said she consulted with CDC officials and learned that she had not received a "direct newspaper" in December.
“他们说1月3日到1月10日左右，接到过武汉直报过来的信息，但后面就忽然停了。
"They said they had received direct reports from Wuhan between January 3 and January 10, but stopped short.
直到1月24日新冠肺炎加入到网络直报系统中后，才恢复上报。
It didn't resume until January 24, when Newcastle Pneumonia was added to the Web Direct Mail system.
”一家医院外的护目镜。
"Goggles outside a hospital.
中青报·中青网见习记者 李强/摄国家要求“立即网络直报”与“省卫健委同意才能上报”中国青年报·中国青年网记者获得了武汉市一家三甲医院公共卫生科的一份《新型冠状病毒疫情处置情况说明》（下称《疫情处置说明》），里面详细记录了该院从去年12月底到今年1月16日之间的“不明原因肺炎”上报情况。
China Youth Daily's China Youth Net reporter obtained a "Statement on the Handling of the Novel Coronavirus Epidemic Disease" from the Public Health Bureau of a three-A hospital in Wuhan, China Youth Daily reported the case of "unknown pneumonia" between the end of December and January 16 this year.
相关记录与冯子健、杨功焕的说法相符。
The relevant records are consistent with Feng Zijian and Yang Gonghwan.
国家卫健委专家组不同成员向记者证实，1月3日前后，国家卫健委专家组和地方专家组共同起草了《不明原因的病毒性肺炎医疗救治工作手册》，由武汉市卫健委制定下发。
Different members of the group confirmed to reporters that around January 3, the expert group of the National Health Care Commission and the local expert group jointly drafted the Manual for Medical Treatment of Unknown Causes of Viral Pneumonia, which was drawn up and distributed by the Wuhan Health Commission.
其中对“病例的发现与报告”一项规定：各级各类医疗机构的医务人员发现符合疾病定义的病例后，应立即报告医疗机构相关部门，由医疗机构在12小时内组织本单位专家组进行会诊和排查，仍不能明确诊断的，应立即填写传染病报告卡，注明“不明原因的病毒性肺炎”并进行网络直报，直报病种选择“不明原因肺炎”。
If the medical staff of all levels and types of medical institutions find out that the cases meet the definition of disease, they should immediately report to the relevant departments of medical institutions, and if the medical institutions cannot clearly diagnose them within 12 hours, they should immediately fill out the infectious disease report card, indicate "viral pneumonia of unknown cause" and report the disease directly to the network.
前述武汉三甲医院的《疫情处置说明》记录：“1月4日，我们收到了市卫健委下发的不明原因的病毒性肺炎指导手册，指导手册上面显示，对于疑似病例，院内需12小时内组织专家会诊，会诊不能排除时应立即上报传染病报告卡。
"On January 4, we received a guidebook on viral pneumonia of unknown cause issued by the municipal health committee. The instruction manual indicates that for suspected cases, expert consultation should be organized within 12 hours in the hospital, and the infectious disease report card should be reported as soon as the consultation cannot be ruled out.
”根据这份记录，1月5日，该医院所在的辖区卫健委组织开会，“传达市级指导手册的精神”。
On January 5, the hospital's district health committee organized a meeting to "convey the spirit of the city guidance manual," according to the records.
区卫健委要求在“市级指导手册精神”的基础上，加入“区级组织专家会诊”的流程，即医院专家会诊和区级专家会诊均不能排除其他疾病后，才能上报传染病报告卡。
The district health committee requires that, on the basis of the "spirit of the municipal guidance manual," it should be added to the process of "expert consultation at the district level," that is, hospital specialist consultation and district expert consultation cannot exclude other diseases before reporting infectious disease report cards.
传染病报告卡全称是《中华人民共和国传染病报告卡》。
All infectious disease report cards are called "Report Cards of the People's Republic of China."
原国家卫计委2015年制定的《传染病信息报告管理规范（2015年版）》规定，首诊医生在诊疗过程中发现传染病病人、疑似病人和规定报告的病原携带者后，应按照要求填写《传染病报告卡》或通过电子病历、电子健康档案自动抽取符合交换文档标准的电子传染病报告卡……其他暴发、流行或原因不明的传染病也应填报传染病报告卡信息。
According to the Regulations on the Reporting and Management of Infectious Diseases Information (2015 Edition), formulated by the former National Health and Planning Commission in 2015, the first-time doctor who detects a patient with an infectious disease, a suspected patient and a prescribed reported pathogen in the course of diagnosis and treatment shall fill out an infectious disease report card or automatically extract an electronic infectious disease report card meeting the exchange file standards.
“只要医院上报传染病报告卡，医院所属的区（县）、市、省，以及国家CDC都能实时收到信息。
"As long as the hospital reports an infectious disease report card, the hospital's district (county), city, province, and national CDC can receive information in real time.
”杨功焕向记者解释。
Mr Yang explained to reporters.
她在2004年任中国疾控中心公共卫生监测和信息服务中心主任，2005年任中国疾控中心副主任，分管公共卫生监测工作，2011年退休。
She was Director of Public Health Monitoring and Information Service Center of China CDC in 2004 and Deputy Director of China CDC in 2005. She was in charge of public health surveillance and retired in 2011.
一位武汉市三甲医院的医生告诉记者，医生在接诊过程中，只要在电子病历系统中输入传染病名称缩写，系统就会自动弹出传染病报告卡，供医生填报。
A doctor at Wuhan Sanjia Hospital told reporters that doctors who enter an abbreviation for an infectious disease in the electronic patient record system will automatically pop up an infectious disease report card for doctors to fill in.
这位医生说，网络直报系统是专用网络，一般由医院公共卫生科或者医院感染办公室等相关部门收集病例，并负责上传、直报。
The doctor said the network is a dedicated network, usually by hospital public health or hospital infection office and other relevant departments to collect cases, and responsible for uploading, direct reporting.
“理论上网络直报系统是医生都可以上报的，但是可能是考虑到一线医生工作繁重，再加上一些其他客观原因，我去年到基层医院考察，发现大部分都是由医院的相关科室负责直报。
"In theory, doctors can report online direct reporting, but probably because of the heavy workload of front-line doctors and other objective reasons, I visited the basic hospitals last year and found that most of them were reported directly by the relevant departments in the hospitals.
”杨功焕告诉记者。
Mr Yang told reporters.
武汉这家医院的《疫情处置说明》显示了该院的上报记录：1月8日-10日3天，分别上报了9张、4张和1张“不明原因肺炎”报告卡。
Wuhan, the hospital's "epidemic treatment notes" show the hospital reported: January 8-10 three days, respectively, reported nine, four and one "unknown pneumonia" report card.
在连续3天网络直报不明原因肺炎病例后，这家医院停止了上报。
The hospital stopped reporting cases of unspecified pneumonia after three days of direct online reporting.
2月26日，武汉同济医院光谷院区，血液净化中心的护士们在等待即将送到的援助物资。
Nurses at the Blood Purification Centre wait for aid to arrive at the Guanggu compound of Wuhan Tongji Hospital on February 26.
这支“护肾小队”负责为重症及危重症新冠肺炎患者做血液净化。
The "Kidney Squad" is responsible for clearing the blood of patients with severe and critical new crown pneumonia.
中⻘报·中青网记者 李隽辉/摄根据这份《疫情处置说明》，1月11日，该院专家会诊一位疑似病例后，不能排除其他疾病，将会诊意见报告给区卫健委医政科，医政科要求医院自行联系区疾控中心采样、做流行病学调查。
According to the Note on Handling a Suspected Disease, experts from Zhongyang Daily reported the consultation opinion to the District Health Committee Medical Bureau, which requested the hospital to contact the CDC for sampling and epidemiological investigation.
该医院工作人员联系区疾控中心后，被告知采样、流调，要等区卫健委医政科通知。
The hospital staff contact the District CDC, was told to sample, transfer, to wait for the District Health and Medical Department notice.
1月12日上午，湖北省卫健委执法监督处处长带队到该院督导发热门诊相关工作，指示：传染病报告卡报告需慎重，省市联合确定后报卡。
January 12 morning, Hubei Wei Health Commission law enforcement supervision director led the team to the hospital fever clinic related work, instructions: Infectious disease report card reports need to be cautious, provinces and municipalities jointly determine after the card.
当时在场的一位知情者向中国青年报·中国青年网记者回忆，省卫健委那位处长确实有此表述。
A person who was present at the meeting told China Youth Daily China Youth Net that the chief of the provincial health committee did express this.
1月13日上午，武汉市卫健委疾控处处长、区卫健委疾控科工作人员一行到该院，传达最新的不明原因肺炎病例上报精神。
On the morning of January 13, the director of the Wuhan CDC and the staff of the District Health Care and Prevention Department came to the hospital to convey the latest case of unknown pneumonia reporting spirit.
这位处长指出：不明原因肺炎病例要慎重上报。
The director pointed out: Unexplained pneumonia cases to be carefully reported.
发现的病毒性肺炎病例，首先要在院内完成各项检验和相关检查，经院内专家组会诊为不明原因肺炎后，再报区卫健委会诊并通知区疾控采样，经区、市、省级逐级检测 ，依然为不明原因肺炎后，“经省卫健委同意”，才能进行病例信息上报。
Cases of viral pneumonia found, first of all, to complete the hospital inspection and related examination, after hospital expert group consultation for unknown pneumonia, then reported to the District Health Commission and notify the district CDC sampling, through district, city, provincial level, still unknown pneumonia, "with the consent of the provincial health committee," before the case information can be reported.
这家医院公共卫生科的另一份文件，记录了当天传达活动的具体情况，其中提到其他医院的不明原因肺炎病例的上报情况——截止到1月13日，武汉协和医院共上报11例，张继先所在的湖北省中西医结合医院上报9例。
Another document from the public health section of the hospital, which recorded details of the day's communication activities, mentioned the reported cases of unexplained pneumonia in other hospitals - 11 cases were reported by Wuhan Concorde Hospital as of January 13, and 9 cases were reported by the Hubei Hospital of Chinese and Western Medicine, where Zhang was located.
《疫情处置说明》里还记录，1月16日下午，该科工作人员向周边医院询问近期报卡情况，得知“近期也未报卡”。
In the afternoon of 16 January, the staff of the Section inquired from the surrounding hospitals about recent reports and learned that "no cards have been reported in the near future."
2月21日，武汉市洪山体育馆方舱医院内，一名患者在读《安妮日记》。
A patient reads "Diary of Anne" at Hongshan Stadium Fang Cao Hospital in Wuhan on February 21.
中青报·中青网见习记者 鲁冲/摄对不明原因肺炎的网络直报，国家卫生行政主管部门在SARS疫情之后推出了明确规定。
Zhongqing News Network trainee reporter Lu Chong / camera for unknown causes of pneumonia, the national health administration in the wake of the SARS epidemic issued clear provisions.
基层医疗机构会诊后，仍不能确诊的，要立即“网络直报”，不需要其他层级的审核和会诊。
After primary medical institutions consultation, still can not diagnose, want to "network direct report" immediately, do not need other levels of audit and consultation.
此举是为了“早期发出预警并采取相应的防控措施”。
This is to "early warning and take appropriate preventive and control measures."
2004年7月，原卫生部下发《全国不明原因肺炎病例监测实施方案（试行）》，在此基础上，2007年又推出了正式的《全国不明原因肺炎病例监测、排查和管理方案》——今年1月初，国家卫健委专家组和地方专家组共同制定的《不明原因的病毒性肺炎医疗救治工作手册》里，“病例报告”有关规定正基于此。
In July 2004, the former Ministry of Health issued the National Programme for Monitoring, Screening and Managing Cases of Unknown Causes of Pneumonia (Trial Implementation), on the basis of which the National Program for Monitoring, Screening and Managing Cases of Unknown Causes of Pneumonia was launched in 2007.
两个版本的方案都规定，临床医务人员发现符合不明原因肺炎定义的病例后，应立即报告医院相关部门，由医院组织本医院专家组进行会诊和排查，仍不能明确诊断的，应立即填写传染病报告卡，注明“不明原因肺炎”进行网络直报，并电话报告县级卫生行政部门。
Both versions of the plan stipulate that clinical staff should immediately report cases that meet the definition of unexplained pneumonia to the relevant departments of the hospital. If the hospital organizes a group of specialists to conduct consultations and screenings, but is still unable to make a clear diagnosis, they should immediately fill out a report card for infectious diseases, indicate "unknown pneumonia" and report directly to the county health administration department by telephone.
《全国不明原因肺炎病例监测、排查和管理方案》对网络直报的时限也提出了要求：医疗机构要在“12小时”内组织本单位专家组进行会诊和排查，仍不能明确诊断的，应“立即填写传染病报告卡”，注明“不明原因肺炎”并进行网络直报。
The National Program for Monitoring, Screening and Managing Cases of Unknown Causes of Pneumonia also requires medical institutions to organize consultation and check-up by their own expert group within "12 hours" and still be unable to make a clear diagnosis, they should "fill out an infectious disease report card immediately," indicate "pneumonia for unknown reasons" and report it directly online.
此外，假使有的医疗机构“不具备网络直报条件”，应立即向当地县级疾控机构报告，县级疾控机构在接到电话报告后，应“立即进行网络直报”。
In addition, if some medical institutions "do not meet the conditions for direct reporting on the network," they should immediately report to the local county-level disease control authorities.
方案还要求，辖区内的不明原因肺炎监测、排查和管理工作，由各级卫生行政部门负责领导，并且要组织监督检查。
The programme also calls for the monitoring, screening and management of unexplained pneumonia in the jurisdiction to be led by health administrations at all levels and to organize supervision and inspection.
各级卫生行政部门接到医疗机构报告后，应尽快组织本辖区内的专家进行会诊。
The administrative departments of public health at all levels shall, as soon as possible after receiving reports from medical organizations, organize consultations among specialists within their respective jurisdictions.
此时的“会诊”不是“网络直报”的前提，而是便于对之前的网络直报结果进行修订：“县级专家会诊后，仍不能明确诊断的，应立即报请地市级专家组进行会诊。
At this time, "consultation" is not the premise of the "direct network newspaper," but to facilitate the previous network of direct reporting results: "county-level experts consultation, but still can not clearly diagnose, should be immediately reported to the municipal expert group for consultation.
做出明确诊断的，由报告单位订正为诊断疾病。
If a definite diagnosis is made, the reporting unit shall revise it to diagnose the disease.
”杨功焕对记者解释，SARS以前，逐级上报流程很慢，也容易出现地方政府行政干预的情况。
Mr Yang explained to reporters that the previous reporting process for SARS had been slow and prone to interference by local government administration.
建立这个直报系统，就是为了减少中间环节，（病例信息）可以从基层医院直达国家疾控中心，让国家用最快的速度获得疫情信息，做出响应。
This direct reporting system was set up to reduce the number of intermediate steps that can be taken directly from the basic hospitals to the National CDC, allowing the country to obtain epidemic information and respond as quickly as possible.
中国疾控中心公共卫生监测与信息服务中心原主任金水高，曾在一篇论文里总结国家法定传染病报告工作的演变。
Jin Shugao, former director of China CDC Public Health Surveillance and Information Service Center, summarized the evolution of national mandatory reporting of infectious diseases in a paper.
这项工作始于20世纪50年代，几十年间都是报告从基层医院经由不同层级防疫部门，每月汇总到国家卫生行政主管部门。
This work began in the 1950s and has been reported for decades from the grass-roots hospitals through the different levels of vaccination departments, monthly aggregated to the national health administration.
计算机技术取代了邮寄报告卡后，缩短了疫情从基层到中央的报告周期，但直到2004年，并没有改变按月报告的基本特性，经常造成信息延迟，不能对疫情的暴发及突发卫生公共事件进行及时的预警和实时的监测。
The replacement of mailing reports cards by computer technology has shortened the reporting cycle from the grass-roots to the central level, but until 2004, the basic features of monthly reporting were not changed, often resulting in delays in the provision of timely early warning and real-time monitoring of outbreaks of disease and public health emergencies.
《中国数字医学》2006年发表的金水高研究员论文，介绍了“网络直报系统”的框架。
"Chinese Digital Medicine" published in 2006, Jinshui Gao researcher paper, introduced the "network direct reporting system" framework.
他介绍，新系统2004年1月1日开始正式运行。
He explained that the new system had become fully operational on 1 January 2004.
各级各类医疗机构发现的传染病例，要在发现的第一时间通过互联网直接传送到中国疾控中心的中央数据中心。
Cases of infectious diseases discovered by medical institutions of various levels and at all levels shall be transmitted directly via the Internet to the Central Data Center of the China CDC at the first time of discovery.
各级疾控中心和卫生行政部门可以根据授权在系统里查看辖区内信息。
CDC and health administration departments at all levels can view information in their jurisdictions in the system as authorized.
到2006年，全国96％以上的县及县级以上医院、66％的乡镇卫生院已经能够通过系统上报传染病及突发公共卫生事件。
By 2006, more than 96 percent of county and higher hospitals and 66 percent of township hospitals had been able to systematically report infectious diseases and public health emergencies.
“SARS的爆发给人们最深刻的教训就是信息渠道不畅，信息不透明。
"The most profound lesson learned from the SARS outbreak is that information is not accessible and transparent.
”金水高指出，后来建成全国疾病预防控制体系，其中建立新的传染病及突发公共卫生事件监测系统，满足对暴发疫情及突发公共卫生事件的早期监测与预警，是其中最重要的内容之一。
Mr Kim pointed out that one of the most important elements was the subsequent establishment of a national disease prevention and control system, which established a new surveillance system for infectious diseases and public health emergencies to meet the needs for early detection and early warning of outbreaks and public health emergencies.
一段时间里，没有网络直报，对外无通报或通报“无增长” 武汉多家医院医生向记者反映了另一个不利于新发病例上报的原因：1月3日前后，他们收到了通过口头传达的武汉市卫健委的《不明原因的病毒性肺炎入排标准》。
For some time, there was no direct online reporting, and doctors at Wuhan hospitals reported another unfavorable case to reporters: Around January 3, they received a verbal communication from Wuhan Health Commission "Unexplained Viral Pneumonia Entry Standard."
他们认为，这个标准对不明原因肺炎病例的排查标准过于“苛刻”，即使临床收治了很多此后经过核酸检测确诊的病人，但当时都不符合标准。
They said the standard was too "stringent" for cases of unexplained pneumonia, even though many patients who were later diagnosed with nucleic acid testing were treated clinically, but did not meet the criteria.
一位医生说： “按照这样的标准，我们一个都报不上去。
"By such standards, we can't report any of them," said a doctor.
”“我从来没参与过《入排标准》的制定，国家卫健委一开始也不知道这个标准的存在。
"I have never been involved in the development of the Standard and the NHS was not aware of it in the first place.
”国家卫健委专家组一位成员对记者说：“这个标准是武汉后来加进去的。
"This standard was added by Wuhan," a member of the group told reporters.
”（此前报道：白皮手册与绿皮手册：新冠肺炎诊断标准之变）一段时间里，武汉市没有网络直报，没有对外通报或对外通报“无新增”，但不代表没有病例出现。
(Previously reported: White Leather Manual and Green Pneumonia Diagnostic Standard Change) For some time, Wuhan City did not have a direct online report, did not report to the outside world or reported "no new cases," but it did not mean that no cases appeared.
中国疾控中心后续回溯病例发现，以发病日统计，2019年12月31日前就有104人感染。
A follow-up case back to the China CDC showed that 104 people had been infected by December 31, 2019.
中国疾控中心副主任冯子健、湖北省疾控中心主任杨波等人在1月29日《新英格兰医学杂志》发表的论文介绍，武汉早期425个确诊病例中，1月1日到11日之间发病的有248人，1月12日到22日发病的有130人。
In a paper published in the New England Journal of Medicine on January 29, Feng Zijian, deputy director of the China CDC, and Yang Bo, director of the Hubei Province CDC, said 248 cases occurred between January 1 and 11 and 130 from January 12 to 22 in Wuhan.
《新英格兰医学杂志》论文其中，1月1日到1月11日之间，武汉有7位医务人员感染肺炎。
According to the New England Journal of Medicine, between January 1 and January 11, seven medical staff in Wuhan contracted pneumonia.
医务人员感染是病毒“人传人”的重要指标。
Infection of medical personnel is an important index of human-to-human transmission of virus.
1月上旬赶到武汉的国家卫健委专家中，有人后来对记者说，专家组当时并未得知人传人信息。
Some of the national health experts who arrived in Wuhan in early January later told reporters that the group had no knowledge of human-to-human transmission.
这位专家说，当时询问过的一位武汉医生，在很多天以后曾给自己打电话，承认当时感染了新冠病毒，却没对专家组说实话。
According to the expert, an Wuhan doctor interviewed at the time called himself many days later to confess to having contracted the new crown virus, but did not tell the Group the truth.
国家卫健委高级别专家组成员曾光。
Zeng Guang, a high-level expert group member.
图片来源/央视新闻国家卫健委高级别专家组成员、中国疾控中心流行病学首席科学家曾光对中国青年报·中国青年网记者回忆，1月8日，他接到国家卫健委电话，让他第二天一早去武汉。
Zhang Guang, a senior expert on epidemiology at the China Center for Disease Control and a member of the National Healthy People's Health Council, told China Youth Daily that on January 8, he received a telephone call from the State Fitness Commission asking him to go to Wuhan the next morning.
1月9日，他在武汉待了一天，跟当时在武汉的国家卫健委其他专家“基本没有交集”，主要是听湖北省和武汉市方面的一些情况介绍。
On January 9, he spent a day in Wuhan, "basically no intersection" with other experts of the state health committee in Wuhan at the time, mainly to listen to some presentations in Hubei and Wuhan.
“他们说（患者）病情比较轻，跟季节性肺炎差不多，几百个密切接触者没有一个发病的。
"They say [the patient] is relatively mild, about the same as the seasonal pneumonia, and none of the hundreds of close contacts are ill.
说得很轻松。
It's easy to say.
”他回忆当时的情况。
He recalled what had happened.
他还记得，当时听说了“有限人传人”现象，但也只是个别人。
He remembers hearing about the "limited person-to-person" phenomenon, but only a few others.
曾光对记者说，他在中国疾控中心曾管过17年的全国传染病疫情报告和疫情分析。
Zeng told reporters that he had been in China CDC for 17 years of national epidemiological reporting and epidemic analysis.
虽然存在报告机制，但如果地方不报告，就形同虚设。
While reporting mechanisms exist, failure to report at the local level is a dead letter.
甚至会出现这样的情况：“上头（通过其他渠道）知道了，催下面报告。
There may even be a situation where the above (via other channels) knows, urging the following report.
这样的问题都出现了，下面捂不住了，上面催他们报告。
This kind of problem appeared, below cover not to be able to, above urge them to report.
”国家卫生健康委专家组成员、北京大学第一医院呼吸和危重症医学科主任王广发在武汉工作期间，感染了新冠肺炎。
Wang Guangfa, a member of the group of experts at the National Health Council and director of respiratory and critical medicine at Peking University's First Hospital, contracted pneumonia while working in Wuhan.
在武汉期间，他曾向媒体介绍整体疫情“可防可控”。
During his stay in Wuhan, he briefed the media on the overall epidemic "preventable and controllable."
他后来对中国青年报·中国青年网记者回忆，对疫情的判断不是个人，是集体做出的，“但是研判的资料，必须得是没问题的”。
He later told China Youth Daily's China Youth Net that the diagnosis of the epidemic was not individual, but collective, "but the information must be correct."
原始的资料不真实、有欠缺，甚至有些信息根本没拿到，判断上就会失误。
The original information is untrue, deficient, and even some information has not been obtained at all, the judgement will be wrong.
直报系统就像打车软件，可以选快车也可以选出租车1月19日，国家卫健委高级别专家组成员在武汉开展工作。
Direct report system is like a taxi software, can choose express or taxi January 19, high-level expert group members of the National Health Commission work in Wuhan.
次日，专家组在北京以记者会的形式首次透露了病毒人传人、医务人员感染等信息。
The next day, the group of experts in Beijing in the form of a press conference, the first to reveal virus transmission, medical staff infection and other information.
这一天，经国务院批准，国家卫健委将新冠肺炎纳入《传染病防治法》规定的乙类传染病，并采取甲类传染病的预防、控制措施。
On that day, with the approval of the State Council, the State Council added the new crown pneumonia to the Class B infectious diseases as stipulated in the Law on the Prevention and Control of Infectious Diseases, and adopted measures for the prevention and control of Class A infectious diseases.
1月24日，在紧急系统调试之后，传染病网络直报系统的“新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎动态监测功能”上线。
January 24, after debugging the emergency system, infectious disease network direct reporting system "new coronavirus infection of the dynamic pneumonia monitoring function."
“新冠肺炎被列为法定报告传染病，并且系统进行更新、升级后，这次疫情的网络直报就顺畅了。
"Newly-reported pneumonia is listed as a notifiable infectious disease, and the system has been updated and upgraded to provide a smooth online reporting of the outbreak.
”杨功焕告诉记者。
Mr Yang told reporters.
新冠肺炎被纳入法定报告传染病之前，我国一共有39种法定报告传染病。
Before the introduction of new crown pneumonia into the statutory reporting of infectious diseases, there were 39 statutory notifiable infectious diseases in the country.
中国疾控中心官网介绍，法定报告传染病分为甲、乙、丙3类。
The official website of the China CDC said that mandatory reporting of infectious diseases is classified into A, B and C.
此外，还包括列入乙类、丙类传染病管理的其他传染病和按照甲类管理开展应急监测报告的其他传染病。
In addition, other infectious diseases included in the management of B and C infectious diseases and other infectious diseases reported for emergency monitoring under category A management are included.
杨功焕在中国疾控中心工作期间，参与了网络直报系统的建设。
During his work at China CDC, Yang Gonghwan participated in the construction of the network direct reporting system.
她介绍，“对基层医院来说，法定传染病和不明原因肺炎都是在一个软件里的，只是分处两个不同的模块。
"For basic hospitals, both statutory and unspecified pneumonia are in one piece of software, just two separate modules," she said.
就像使用打车软件时，你可以选快车，也可以选出租车。
Just like using taxi software, you can choose either express or taxi.
”她认为，虽然是一个软件，但可以把法定报告传染病网络直报系统和不明原因肺炎监测系统理解为两个不同的系统。
She believes that while it is a software package, the statutory Communicable Disease Network Direct Reporting System and the Unexplained Pneumonia Surveillance System can be understood as two separate systems.
“一个是法定报告的，一个是重点监测的，确实不太一样。
"One is mandatory, the other is focused, and it's really different.
”冯子健也告诉记者，法定报告传染病网络直报系统和不明原因肺炎监测系统，（性质上）是两个不同的系统。
Feng also told reporters that the Direct Reporting System for Infectious Diseases Net and the Unexplained Pneumonia Surveillance System were two different systems.
系统“规定”各地医务人员报告39种法定传染病，同时“鼓励”医务人员报告他们希望报上来的传染病——“这个没有明确的规定，是在‘其他’疾病这个栏目里，然后在备注里加一个这个疾病的诊断，这是自愿的。
The system "requires" medical staff everywhere to report 39 statutory infections, and "encourages" medical staff to report infectious diseases that they wish to report - "This is not specified, is in the" other "disease column, and then add a diagnosis of the disease to the remarks, which is voluntary.
”“比如水痘，就报了很多，这个就不是法定报告传染病，但很多医务人员觉得它是个很明显的传染病，也都有报告。
"For example, chicken pox, which has been reported a lot, is not a legally reported infectious disease, but many medical staff feel that it is a very visible infectious disease, and it has been reported.
”他举例说。
'he said.
冯子健解释，一个新的疾病出现但还没有被纳入法定报告传染病时，中国疾控中心有时会发临时通知，要求各地把这种新发疾病在“其他”栏目里报，然后后面加上备注。
Feng explained that when a new disease emerged but had not been included in the statutory reporting of infectious diseases, the CDC sometimes issued a temporary notice asking countries to report the new disease in the "other" column, followed by a note.
“这样就临时解决报告方式问题。
"This would resolve the issue of reporting modalities on an interim basis.
”他说，这次在武汉，1月初“不明原因肺炎”也是采取这种方式报告的。
This time in Wuhan, "pneumonia due to unknown causes" was reported in this way in early January, he said.
至于“不明原因肺炎监测系统”，冯子健告诉记者，该系统是SARS、H5N1禽流感出现以后建立的，希望基层能够报告那些“无法做出诊断的，排除不了其他疾病的不明原因肺炎”。
As for the Unexplained Pneumonia Surveillance System, Feng told reporters that the system was set up after the emergence of SARS and H5N1 avian influenza, and hoped that people at the grass-roots level could report "undiagnosed pneumonia, which does not rule out other diseases."
“特别是那些有聚集性的、病毒性的不明原因肺炎，这个更要报。
"This is especially true for those with clustered, viral and unexplained pneumonia.
但是这个报告，年度间、各地间的差异特别大，总体情况就是报告得不够好。
The report, however, showed particularly wide variations from year to year and from place to place, and the overall picture was one of under-reporting.
”一家基层疾控中心提供给记者的网络直报系统照片显示，“不明原因肺炎”处在“其他传染病”子项之下，该子项还有水痘、中东呼吸综合征（MERS）等疾病。
"Unexplained pneumonia" is under the subheading "other infectious diseases," along with diseases such as chickenpox and the Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS), according to photos of a direct online newspaper system provided to reporters by a grass-roots CDC.
记者从北京一家三甲医院临床医生电子病历系统的照片中，也看到了“传染病报告卡”的“不明原因肺炎”选项。
The "Unexplained Pneumonia" option of the Infectious Disease Report Card was also seen in a photograph taken from the electronic medical records system of a clinician at a three-A hospital in Beijing.
无论是SARS、MERS还是新冠肺炎，在病毒确定之前，都属“不明原因肺炎”。
Both SARS, MERS and Newcomial Pneumonia were "unidentified pneumonia" until the virus was confirmed.
2017年，中国疾控中心完成了一篇在冯子健指导下研究“不明原因肺炎监测系统”的硕士毕业论文。
In 2017, China's CDC completed a master's thesis on "Unexplained Pneumonia Surveillance System" under Feng Zijian's supervision.
其中介绍，“不明原因肺炎监测系统”是SARS和H5N1禽流感之后，为早期发出预警并采取相应防控措施，从而防止疫情扩散建立的系统。
"Unknown causes of pneumonia surveillance system" is the SARS and H5N1 avian influenza after the early warning and corresponding prevention and control measures to prevent the spread of the disease.
比如，2013年人感染禽流感H7N9疫情暴发初期，绝大多数H7N9病例都是通过该系统发现的。
For example, the majority of H7N9 cases were detected through the H7N9 outbreak in humans in the early stages of the outbreak in 2013.
“很多传染病比如鼠疫的初期症状跟肺炎很像，这个系统有一年甚至监测到了一起鼠疫病例疫情。
"Many infectious diseases, such as bubonic plague, begin with symptoms similar to pneumonia, and the system even detected one case of plague a year ago.
”杨功焕告诉记者。
Mr Yang told reporters.
上述论文提到，“不明原因肺炎监测系统”是一个依赖临床医生上报病例的“被动监测系统”，临床医生对该监测系统的接受程度直接影响病例报告质量和效率。
The paper notes that the Unexplained Pneumonia Surveillance System is a "passive surveillance system" that relies on clinicians to report cases, and clinicians' acceptance of the surveillance system directly affects the quality and efficiency of case reporting.
“那些已知的传染病经过多年的防控，已经很难再引发大的疫情了。
"Those known infections, after years of prevention and control, are no longer likely to cause a major outbreak.
反而是新发的传染病，比如SARS、MERS产生了严重的疫情。
Instead, new infectious diseases, such as SARS and MERS, have caused serious outbreaks.
”北京大学公共卫生学院教授、中国疾控中心首任主任李立明对记者说，“这个直报系统应该注重新发传染病的监测和报告。
Li Liming, a professor at the Peking University School of Public Health and China's first director of the CDC, told reporters: "This direct reporting system should focus on surveillance and reporting of emerging infectious diseases.
”他说，从SARS、MERS到新冠肺炎，都是新发传染病，对人民、对社会的影响更大。
From SARS to MERS to pneumonia, new infections are emerging, with a greater impact on people and society, he said.
建议建立更加“敏感”的体系，可以“立即报告、立即响应、立即处置”。
A more "sensitive" system that can "report immediately, respond immediately, and dispose of immediately" is recommended.
“网络直报系统什么时候都应该是最快、最敏锐的，要不还有什么意义呢？”李立明说。
"When should the network direct reporting system be the fastest, the sharpest, or what else is the point?" Li said.
他说，不仅要关注“病”，也要关注“症”。
He said attention should be paid not only to "illness" but also to "illness."
比如国外发现流感流行，不仅靠症状，也靠其他的敏感信息，比如超市纸巾销售量突增等。
Foreign flu epidemics, for example, depend not only on symptoms, but also on other sensitive information, such as the sudden increase in sales of supermarket towels.
一位业内人士向记者指出，武汉市有没有报告，国家疾控中心应该检查、督查，及时弄清情况。
An industry source pointed out to reporters, Wuhan has no report, the National CDC should check, supervise and promptly clarify the situation.
如果没有报告，国家疾控中心有没有及时发现并向国家卫健委反映？各级疾控中心负责检查、督查疫情报告系统的及时性、敏感性和报告率、漏报率等，结果要形成书面报告，上报各级卫生健康委。
If not, does the CDC detect and report to the NCHC in a timely manner? The CDC is responsible for checking and inspecting the timeliness, sensitivity, reporting rate and omission rate of the epidemic reporting system at all levels.
国家疾控中心不仅要检查省级疾控中心的报告情况，还要检查基层医院和社区发病情况以验证疫情报告系统的及时性、敏感性和报告率、漏报率。
The CDC should not only check the reports of provincial CDC, but also the basic hospitals and communities to verify the timeliness, sensitivity and reporting rate of the epidemic reporting system, as well as the underreporting rate.
国家卫健委官网2月发布的一则信息透露：1月14日上午，国家卫健委召开了全国电视电话会议，部署新型冠状病毒感染肺炎防控工作。
The National Health Commission held a nationwide televised conference call on January 14 to plan for the prevention and control of the new coronavirus-infected pneumonia, the website said in February.
要求各地高度重视，“讲政治、顾大局”，把疫情防控作为当前卫生健康系统的头等大事来抓，会上要求“强化系统内、部门间、区域间信息共享和联防联控”。
We need all regions to attach great importance to this issue, making prevention and control of the epidemic a top priority of the current health and health system, calling for "strengthening information sharing within the system, between departments and between regions, and joint prevention and control."
关于武汉，会议提出要求：“武汉的疫情防控工作决定今后全国疫情防控工作的走向。
Wuhan, the meeting asked: "Wuhan's epidemic prevention and control work determines the future direction of the national epidemic prevention and control.
湖北省和武汉市要采取严格管控措施，重点加强农贸市场管控；加强发热人员管控，筑牢体温监测和发热门诊筛查两道防线；加强人群活动管理，减少大型公众聚集性活动，提醒发热患者不要离开武汉；加强患者救治和密切接触者管理，落实最严格的措施，下决心把疫情控制在当地，尽最大努力避免武汉疫情扩散蔓延。
Hubei and Wuhan should adopt strict control measures, focus on strengthening the control of farmers' market, strengthen the control of fever personnel, strengthen the two lines of defense, strengthen the management of mass events, reduce large-scale public gatherings, remind febrile patients not to leave Wuhan; strengthen patient treatment and close contact management, implement the strictest measures, and make every effort to prevent the spread of the epidemic in Wuhan.
”2月19日，武汉市百步亭社区，两位工作人员上门询问情况。
On Feb. 19, two staff members visited the Bumbuting community in Wuhan City to inquire about the situation.
中青报·中青网记者 赵迪/摄钟南山眼中疫情暴露出的一个短板：CDC地位太低了1月18日上午，曾光再次接到电话通知，让他当天下午赶到武汉。
Zhongqing Pao Zhongqing News reporter Zhao Di / Zheng Zhongshan exposed the epidemic exposed a short board: CDC status too low January 18 morning, Zeng Guang was again informed by telephone that he would arrive in Wuhan that afternoon.
这一次，他是国家卫健委高级别专家组6位成员之一，另外5位是钟南山、高福、李兰娟、袁国勇、杜斌，他们分别从不同地方赶到了武汉。
This time, he is one of the six members of the high-level group of experts of the National Fitness and Health Commission. The other five are Zhong Nan Shan, Gao Fu, Li Lan Juan, Yuan Guoyong and Du Bin.
两天后，高级别专家组在北京的记者会上，证实了有人传人的传染，也证实了有医务人员感染。
Two days later, a high-level panel of experts at a press conference in Beijing confirmed human-to-human transmission and confirmed the presence of infected medical personnel.
曾光在那次记者会上说：“我们希望人群现在能不到武汉去就不去，武汉人能不出来就不出来——这不是官方的号召，是我们专家组的一些建议。
"We hope that the crowd will not go to Wuhan now, that Wuhan people will not come out - this is not an official call, it is some of the recommendations of our group of experts," Zeng said at the press conference.
”他事后对记者回忆，他“喊出这样的话”，因为专家组非常着急。
He later told reporters he "shouted that way" because the panel was in a hurry.
那次记者会，“没有任何人告诉我们该说什么，不该说什么”“想到哪儿就说到哪儿”。
At the press conference, "Nobody tells us what to say or shouldn't say" "Just say what you think."
国家卫健委高级别专家组组长钟南山。
Zhong Nan Shan, high-level expert group leader.
图片来源/新华社2月27日，在广州市疫情防控新闻通气会上，国家卫健委高级别专家组组长钟南山说，此次疫情“暴露了我们的短板”——“我们CDC（疾控中心）的地位太低了，CDC只是一个技术部门，一个卫健委领导下的技术部门，CDC的特殊地位并没有得到足够的重视。
2007-9-25 21: 48 "We at CDC (CDC) are too low, the CDC is just a technical department, a technical department under the health committee, and the special status of the CDC has not been given enough attention," Zhong Nan-shan, head of the high-level panel, said.
”他说，在有的国家，CDC是直通中央的，不需要逐层申报，甚至在特殊情况下可以直接向社会公报，但中国要一级一级（报告）。
In some countries, the CDC goes straight to the centre, does not need to be reported layer by layer, and can even be sent directly to the Social Bulletin in special cases, but at a higher level in China (reporting).
钟南山说：“CDC只是个技术部门，它只能向上报告。
"The CDC is just a technical department, it can only report up," Zhong said.
向地方政府报告了以后，地方政府怎么决定，那是地方政府的决定，CDC没有权力再进一步做什么东西。
After reporting it to the local government, the local government decided that it was the local government's decision and that the CDC had no authority to do anything further.
”他认为，这一点需要改变，CDC的地位需要提高，并且要有行政权，“这是我的一个很重要的看法。
He argues that this needs to change, that the CDC needs to be upgraded and have executive power, "a very important point for me.
假如说以后还不是这样的话，那（疫情）还会出现。
If that is not the case in the future, then it will happen again.
”“我经历过SARS，我感觉这次疫情早期跟SARS时有着惊人相似之处。
"I have experienced SARS and I feel that there are striking similarities between the early stages of the outbreak and SARS.
”李立明对中国青年报·中国青年网记者指出，“都是一开始没有一个快速的系统去响应，最后不得不全社会动员、全民参与的群防群控措施，利用我们的制度优势去解决问题，对全社会都是巨大的消耗。
Li Liming told China Youth Daily's China Youth Net that "the lack of a rapid system to respond in the first place, and ultimately had to mobilize the whole society, participate in the crowd control measures, use our institutional advantages to solve the problem, is a huge drain on the whole society."
实际上17年过去了，我们的技术有了很大的提高，我们国际合作也做得很好，我们这次诊疗救治的指南也不断在更新。
In fact, 17 years later, our technology has improved a lot, our international cooperation has done a good job, and our guidelines for medical treatment are constantly being updated.
但是公共卫生意识还是落后的，传染病防控这种专业的事还在受行政因素的干预。
However, public health awareness is still lagging behind, infectious disease prevention and control this professional matter is still subject to administrative factors intervention.
”他说，传染病防控应该是件“技术决策”的事，建议加强基层“守门人”医务人员公共卫生意识的培训，让他们主动报告、依法报告。
Infectious disease prevention and control should be a matter of "technical decision-making," he said, suggesting that public health awareness training for "gatekeepers" at the grass-roots level be strengthened to allow them to report voluntarily and in accordance with the law.
技术上，直报系统要对基层医生更友好，不能让他们为上报传染病信息而消耗大量时间和精力，同时还应有激励机制鼓励“吹哨人”；要让疾控技术人员能够及时判断、核实诊断，然后做出如何应急响应的决定，而减少行政的层级干预。
Technically, direct reporting systems need to be more friendly to primary-level doctors, not allow them to expend a great deal of time and effort in reporting infectious disease information, and should have incentives to encourage whistleblowers; and they should enable disease control technicians to make timely diagnoses, verify diagnoses, and then make emergency response decisions, thereby reducing administrative hierarchies of intervention.
“我就一句话：专业的工作，应该让专业的人去做。
"Let me just say this: a professional job should be done by a professional person.
”*本文由中国青年报独立出品，首发在中国青年报客户端及头条号，加入树木计划。
* This article was produced independently by China Youth Daily and was first published in the China Youth Daily client and headline number to join the Tree Program.
中国青年报·中国青年网出品觉得好看请点这里。
China Youth Daily China Youth Net products feel good please click here.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉早期疫情上报为何一度中断。
Wuhan early outbreak reported why once interrupted.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉早期疫情上报为何一度中断";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Why did Wuhan's early outbreak report at one time interrupt & quot;;;
var msg_desc = "如题";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; as & quot; as & quot;
title: '白皮手册与绿皮手册：新冠肺炎诊断标准之变',。
White leather manual and green leather handbook: AT & amp; apos; s diagnostic standard for new crown pneumonia.
subject_name: '冰点周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
