重症楼层的求生渴望。
Survival aspirations for the critical floor.
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
中日友好医院支援湖北医疗队队员的手部合影。
The Chinese-Japanese Friendship Hospital supported Hubei Medical Team's hand photo.
受访者供图本文约4257字预计阅读时间11分钟作者 | 中青报·中青网记者 秦珍子编辑 | 张国咳嗽声此起彼伏，孙贺看见整条走廊全是人，从护士站漫到楼梯口。
2007-9-25 21: 48 Chinese Youth Daily Qin Zhengzhi's cough came and went. Sun He saw the corridor filled with people, from the nurse's station to the staircase.
有人坐在轮椅上，盖着棉被。
Someone was sitting in a wheelchair, covered with a quilt.
他听到有人一直叫喊，不懂方言，但能听明白，是要床位。
He heard people shouting all the time, not knowing the dialect, but as far as he could understand, it was the bed.
“他们很害怕，我也很害怕。
"They're scared, and so am I.
”他做了4年护士，没见过那样的场面。
He had been a nurse for four years and had never seen anything like that.
这是他到武汉的第四天，2020年2月4日，晚上10点。
This is his fourth day in Wuhan, February 4, 2020, 10: 00 p.m.
他值班的4小时内，这层病房收进31个新冠肺炎患者，主要是中老年人。
Within four hours of his shift, he admitted 31 patients, mainly middle-aged and elderly, to the ward.
一对夫妇是互相搀扶着来的。
A couple came to help each other.
有老人记不住亲属的电话号码，其中一位甚至不知“电话”是什么意思。
There were elderly people who couldn't remember their relatives' phone numbers and one of them didn't even know what "telephone" meant.
有人呼吸困难，无法说话，面对医生的问题，缓慢地点头和摇头。
Some people have difficulty breathing, are unable to speak, face a doctor's question, and slowly nod and shake their heads.
发热最高的体温40摄氏度。
The highest fever is 40 degrees centigrade.
有人需要马上吸氧。
Someone needs oxygen at once.
做检查时，每个人要抽七八管血，因为管数多、针头细，抽到最后血液容易凝住，要找别处的血管再扎一次。
When doing the examination, each person should smoke 78 tube of blood, because tube number is many, needle is fine, the blood is easy to clamp down at the end, want to look elsewhere blood vessel again.
那天下班时，孙贺“瘫了，不知道怎么干过来的”。
At the end of the day, Sun He was paralyzed and did not know how to do it.
他30岁，是中日友好医院护士，支援湖北医疗队成员。
He is a 30-year-old nurse at the Sino-Japanese Friendship Hospital.
他们接管了武汉同济医院中法新城院区C6东区。
They took over the district of C6 East of Tongji Hospital in Wuhan.
该院区经过改造后，主要接收新冠肺炎重症、危重症患者，其他楼层“还有协和的、湘雅的、白求恩医院的”。
After the renovation of the hospital area, mainly to receive serious, critical cases of pneumonia, other floors "there are Concorde, Xiangya, Bethune Hospital."
“头一天还是一层空房，第二天快满了。
The first day was an empty one, and the next nearly full.
”孙贺说，“一天就收了46个，什么场面！”当初在医院选科室，他选了内分泌科，因为“怕压抑，受不了生离死别”，工作以来“还没‘送走’过一个”。
"He received 46 in one day, what scene!" He chose the endocrinology department at the hospital because he was "afraid of repression and can't stand to die," and "hasn't sent one away" since he started work.
到武汉后，有一天他值班，一位男性患者想喝酸奶，打电话张罗家人送来，请医务人员帮忙接收。
After reaching Wuhan, one day he was on duty. A male patient wanted to drink yoghurt. He called his family and asked the medical staff to help him.
“沟通了好几次，把东西给他送进病房，输液时我看着也挺好的。
"I communicated several times and took the things to the hospital room, and I looked good with the infusion.
”孙贺再来上班时，那位男士不见了。
When Sun He came to work again, the man was gone.
“走了。
"Go on.
”同事说。
"said the colleague.
“这么快出院了？”“没了。
Are you out of the hospital so soon?
”截至目前，中日友好医院负责的中法院区C6东区共有3名新冠肺炎患者病亡。
So far, three new cases of pneumonia have died in the C6 Eastern District, which is covered by the China-Japan Friendship Hospital.
孙贺站在了他曾经最不想靠近的、离死亡很近的病床边。
Sun He was standing next to the bed near death, which he had never wanted to go near.
孙贺和同事在武汉同济医院中法新城院区C6东区。
Sun He and his colleagues in Wuhan Tongji Hospital in the French New Town courtyard C6 East District.
受访者供图中日友好医院第一次征集队员时，他就报名了，当时他感冒没好，没走成。
The interviewee applied for the first call-up at the Sino-Japanese Friendship Hospital, when he had a bad cold and did not make it.
同学朋友劝他，别去，不缺你一个。
Schoolmate friend admonishes him, do not go, do not lack you one.
姨妈听说外甥要去武汉，电话里声音都变了。
When my aunt heard that my nephew was going to Wuhan, his voice changed.
一个令人意外的支持者是妈妈：“去吧，只要你想去。
A surprising supporter is Mom: "Go ahead, as long as you want to go.
”孙贺此前也只是通过新闻和社交媒体了解新冠肺炎疫情。
He had previously only learned about the outbreak through the news and social media.
他知道院里有专家去了武汉，但没听过“人传人”。
He knew that experts in the hospital had gone to Wuhan, but had not heard of the "person-to-person".
他见到医院新开了发热门诊和隔离点，但没见过一个真正的确诊者。
He saw a new fever clinic and quarantine in the hospital, but never a real diagnosis.
后来，他知道有医护人员感染。
Later, he learned that medical staff were infected.
“普通人不太了解防护知识，医护人员感染，说明（病毒）可能超过了我们的防御范围。
"The fact that ordinary people don't know much about protection and health care workers get infected suggests [the virus] may be beyond our defenses.
”抵达武汉后，他接受两天培训，怎么消毒、防护、穿隔离衣。
After arriving in Wuhan, he underwent two days of training on how to disinfect, protect and wear protective clothing.
迎接山西医疗队到来时，一直驻扎在中法院区的著名医生曹彬讲了话。
When welcoming the Shanxi Medical Team, Cao Bin, a famous doctor who had been stationed in the Central Court district, made a speech.
这是孙贺第一次见到这位中日友好医院副院长、国家卫健委专家组成员，“以前只在医院布告栏里看过，在传说中听过”。
It was the first time Sun He had seen the Vice-President of the Sino-Japanese Friendship Hospital and a member of the national health committee.
几位在场者都回忆，曹彬那次讲得很严肃，数次提到“死亡”。
Several of the attendees recalled that Cao Bin spoke seriously at that time, mentioning "death" several times.
“他那种状态，让我觉得（情况）挺严重的。
"His condition makes me think [the situation] pretty serious.
”孙贺说。
"said Sun He.
相当一部分重症患者，刚入院时几乎失去全部行动能力，在病床上大小便，喝水、吃饭、吃药、翻身都需要辅助。
A significant proportion of patients with severe illnesses have almost lost all mobility upon admission, requiring assistance with bed defecation, drinking water, eating, taking medication and turning over.
有人完全离不开氧气，有人上了ECMO（人工膜肺），“浑身都是管路”。
Some people completely depend on oxygen, someone on ECMO (artificial membrane lung), "all over the pipe."
没有护工、家属，有人来得急，没带生活用品，一只纸杯用到“快碎了”。
There are no nursing workers, family members, some people come in a hurry, no daily necessities, a paper cup used to "nearly broken."
他们手里只有一个呼叫铃，铃的那头是护士。
They had only one call-bell in their hand. At the other end was the nurse.
有位患者，牙刷被患有阿尔茨海默病的80多岁的室友误用了。
One patient, a toothbrush, was misused by a roommate in his 80s with Alzheimer's disease.
孙贺说，问你家人要新牙刷。
Ask your family for a new toothbrush, he said.
那位患者苦笑，“只能找你们要，我家人不是在住院，就是在隔离”。
The patient grinned. "You can only have it. My family is either hospitalized or isolated."
还有一位患者，闹着要吃苹果，护士从驻地酒店找到了苹果。
Another patient, noisy to eat apples, the nurse found apples from the resident hotel.
有人喊冷，“别的医院都有空调，就你们这儿没有”。
Someone yells cold, "All the other hospitals have air conditioners, only you don't have one here."
孙贺解释，关闭中央空调是防止病毒传播。
Sun explained that turning off the central air conditioner was preventing the virus from spreading.
某患者找不到“记得带了”的八宝粥，对着护士发火，结果护士也火了，“后来（患者）就‘乖’多了”。
Some patients can not find "remember to bring" porridge, angry at the nurse, the nurse also angry, "Later [patients] more '.
另一位患者症状稍轻，拒绝和较重的病友住在一间病房，起初就站在门口不肯进去。
The other patient, less symptomatic, refused to share a ward with his more serious patient and initially stood at the door refusing to enter.
孙贺听同事讲，有一次，呼吸机某条管路意外脱落，患者呼吸道分泌物液体、大量气溶胶都喷到护士的身上。
He listened to colleagues, one time, a ventilator pipe dropped out unexpectedly, the patient's respiratory secretion liquid, a large amount of aerosols were sprayed on nurses.
“插管的暴露风险真的很大，护士要参与，还要做所有的善后。
"The risk of exposure to the intubation is really high and the nurse has to be involved and do all the aftercare.
”但孙贺同时认为，新冠病毒再可怕，医务人员多少还能了解一些，患者和家属是茫然的。
But Sun also believes that the new crown virus, no matter how terrible, can be more or less understood by medical staff, patients and family members are at a loss.
“没报道出来时，可能还觉得是普通感冒呢，一看报道，得有多无助，生的希望都没了。
"When they don't report it, they may still feel like they have a common cold. They tell me how helpless they are and how little hope they have of living.
好不容易能住院，却又见不到家人，没人护理，身边的护士多拿杯水，（帮忙）盖个被子，他们就感觉很好。
It was hard to be hospitalized, but there were no family members, no one to take care of them, and the nurses around them took more than a glass of water to build a quilt.
他们生病着急，我想帮他们，也着急。
They were in a hurry. I wanted to help them, too.
”夜里，咳嗽声少，走廊里能听到心电监护仪的嘀嘀声和吸氧时的咕嘟声。
At night there was less cough, and in the hallway could be heard the tick of the electrocardiograph and the beep of oxygen.
护士一次值班是4个小时，白班夜班来回倒。
The nurse was on duty for four hours at a time, night shifts falling back and forth during the day.
孙贺在午夜、清晨、午后的好几个时段，经过武汉的同一条路。
Sun He passes by the same road in Wuhan at midnight, early morning and late afternoon.
进医院后要穿5道门，手套要戴5层（后改为3层），“两层橡胶中间夹着一层吃小龙虾那种（手套）”。
After entering the hospital to wear five doors, gloves to wear five (later changed to three), "two layers of rubber between a layer of eat crayfish (gloves)."
隔离衣里穿一件白底蓝花的病号服，脱下来的时候，“不夸张，拧出水”。
Wear a white background blue flower in the quarantine clothes, take off, "no exaggeration, twist out the water".
穿一层鞋套，再穿拖鞋，再穿一层鞋套。
Wear a shoe cover, slippers, and a shoe cover.
护目镜是前面的同事用过的，从消毒液里捞出来。
The goggles were used by colleagues in front of them and were fished out of the disinfectant.
熟练以后，孙贺15分钟就能完成防护流程。
After the proficiency, Sun He 15 minutes to complete the protection process.
交接班之前，他会先把堆放在两间屋里的6袋医疗垃圾丢掉。
He would throw away six bags of medical waste piled up in two rooms before handing over.
一位80多岁的老人，刚开始腹泻严重，因为性别差异，拒绝让孙贺为她擦拭大便。
An 80-year-old man, who had just had severe diarrhea, refused to let Sun He clean her stool because of gender differences.
“我其实有优势！”身高178厘米的孙贺说，“劲儿大，能帮着翻个身，处理得挺干净的。
"I have the advantage!" said Sun He, who is 178 cm tall. "He is strong enough to help him turn over and deal with it cleanly.
”过去在内分泌科病房，孙贺几乎没做过这些事。
In the past, Sun He barely did any of these things in the endocrinology ward.
他不常“吸痰”、设置呼吸机参数，没清理过化疗常用的“PICC（经外周静脉穿刺中心静脉置管）”，也没接触过治疗艾滋病的药物。
He did not often "suck phlegm," set ventilator parameters, did not clean up the "PICC" commonly used in chemotherapy, nor did he have access to drugs to treat AIDS.
常规的采血变困难了，手套戴太厚，让人没法同时做到扎针、固定、换管，需要两个护士配合。
Conventional blood collection becomes difficult, gloves too thick to do at the same time pin, fixed, change tube, the need for two nurses to cooperate.
武汉话他听不懂，有天抽血听到患者嘟囔“过早”，他说都快6点了，不早了，再不抽就晚了。
Wuhan dialect he did not understand, one day he heard the patient mumble "too early," he said it was almost 6 o'clock, late, or no more smoke late.
后来才知道，“过早”是表达“饿了，想吃早饭”。
Later I learned that "early" means "hungry, want to eat breakfast".
一起工作的武汉护士交班时叮嘱，抽完血给“自助”打电话。
Wuhan nurses working together when the orders, smoke blood to "self-help" call.
反复交流之后他才明白了，血液样本送实验室，北京叫“物流”，武汉叫“自助”。
Repeated exchanges before he understood that blood samples sent to the laboratory, Beijing is called "logistics", Wuhan is called "self-help."
17床住了一位30多岁的女性，圆脸，齐刘海，总给医患当“武汉话”翻译。
Beds a woman in her 30s, round face, Qi Liu Hai, always give the doctor-patient "Wuhan dialect" translation.
一个月磨下来，孙贺“听到音还是对不上汉字，但意思全能明白”。
A month down, Sun He "still can not hear the sound of Chinese characters, but the meaning of omnipotent understand."
他记得，几天前值班时，一个29岁的女性入院，“腿像饮料瓶那么细”，患有白血病。
He remembers a 29-year-old woman on duty a few days ago who was hospitalized with "legs as thin as a drink bottle" and leukaemia.
他特意去病房查看，患者动不了，说不出话，只能用眼神交流。
He went to the ward specially to check, the patient cannot move, cannot speak, can only use the eye to communicate.
同病房还有一位白血病患者。
There is also a leukemia patient in the same ward.
“我以前没护理过这类病人，他们免疫力特别低，特别容易感染，要特别小心。
"I haven't looked after this kind of patient before, they have very low immunity and are particularly susceptible to infection, so be very careful.
”孙贺说。
"said Sun He.
事实上，这层楼的患者，不少都有其他疾病。
In fact, many of the patients on this floor have other illnesses.
不久前，中日医院医疗队对一位使用ECMO后好转的患者“撤机”，还同时为其做了“介入治疗”。
Not long ago, a medical team from a hospital in China and Japan "pulled out" a patient who was in remission after ECMO use, and gave him "interventional therapy."
“刚开始动不了，说不了话，太可怜了，好了就特别可爱。
'At first you can't move, you can't speak, it's too pathetic.
”随着时间推移，孙贺观察到，很多患者开始好转，撤掉ECMO，摆脱对氧气的依赖，不再咳嗽，肺部CT白色区域缩小，有的顺利出院。
Over time, he observed that many patients were getting better, removing ECMO from dependence on oxygen, coughing, shrinking CT-white areas of the lungs and getting out of the hospital successfully.
曾经需要孙贺辅助大小便的一位老人，现在一看到他就说：“我已经上完厕所了！”16床一位50多岁的女性，从监护室里出来后，主动说吃了多少、体温多少、小便多少——“精确到毫升数，知道我们要问什么，一点儿麻烦都不想给我们添了”。
An old man who once needed him to help him urinate said: "I'm done with the toilet!" A woman in her 50s came out of the intensive care unit and volunteered how much she ate, how much she had, how much she urinated - "accurate to milliliter, knowing what we're going to ask, no trouble at all."
孙贺对数字敏感，按床号记人，比如“18床旁边那个17床，人特别好”“16床后来出院了”……他能通过“发型”和“衣着”判断病情，有人刚住院时头发乱糟糟，现在梳得挺整齐。
Sun He is sensitive to numbers and keeps track of people by the number of beds, such as the 17 bed next to the 18 bed, a particularly nice person 16 beds were discharged from hospital He was able to judge his illness by his hairstyle and his clothes.
还有人衣服和脸都明显干净了，自理能力恢复了。
There were others whose clothes and faces were visibly clean, and their self-care abilities were restored.
有人帮病友找助眠药物、分享零食。
Some help patients find sleeping pills and share snacks.
孙贺能听到女病房的聊天声，也在男病房见过有人爬起来打手机游戏。
Sun He could hear the chatter in the women's ward and saw someone get up and play mobile games in the men's ward.
一位93岁的女性患者，女儿住在隔壁床。
A 93-year-old female patient has a daughter in a bed next door.
最初老人情况危急，还总闹小情绪。
At first the old man was in a critical condition and always in a small mood.
同事刘小雪说，“孙贺总是哄奶奶开心，每次做治疗特别温柔，奶奶后来特别配合。
Colleague Liu Xiaoxue said, "Sun He always coax grandma happy, every time do a special gentle treatment, grandmother later on special cooperation.
”这位老人病情好转，能下床溜达，还抱着平板电脑“刷剧”，看完一集让闺女换下一集。
The old man is getting better, can get out of bed and walk around with a tablet computer "scrubbing" to finish the episode and get her to switch over to another episode.
有一次她非要孙贺一起吃午饭，还有一次，看他护目镜有水汽，让他摘了，“衣服也脱了”——当然，这些要求只能拒绝。
Once she insisted that Sun He should have lunch with her, and once, seeing that he had steam in his goggles, she asked him to take off his clothes.
孙贺的同事杨坤杰记得，有位患者总会悄悄给医护人员拍照，“记下我们忙碌时候的样子”。
Dr. Sun's colleague, Yang Kun-jie, remembers that a patient would quietly take pictures of medical staff, "jot down how we were busy."
后来她们加了微信，患者发来很多照片。
Later they added a letter and the patient sent many pictures.
每一次到她床旁，这位阿姨都会叮嘱一遍，“保护好自己”。
Every time she came to her bed, the aunt would tell her, "Protect yourself."
上了ECMO的一位，原来是护士眼里的“刺儿头”，不配合，说话还难听，故意找麻烦。
An ECMO on the original, is the eyes of nurses "piercing head", do not cooperate, speech is still bad, deliberately looking for trouble.
杨坤杰发现，用了ECMO之后，他态度好多了。
Yang Kun Jie found that after using ECMO, his attitude is much better.
护士随口一句“好久没吃馒头”，他就把自己的早餐留下来。
The nurse casually said that he had not eaten steamed bread for a long time, so he left his breakfast.
“他可能看到了生的希望。
"He may have seen a hope of life.
”杨坤杰推测，她还帮患者剪掉很长的头发，“眼神特别不舍，就知道对生有多渴求”。
Yang speculated that she also helped cut patients' long hair "with such a hard look that they know how much they want to live."
孙贺刚上班时，曾在重症监护病房轮岗。
When Sun He first went to work, he was in intensive care ward rotation.
“做任何事情，患者是没有回应的，不像在这里，你帮他们，他们特别感谢。
"In doing anything, the patients are not responding, unlike here, you help them, and they are especially grateful.
”有一次，医疗队有成员过生日，同事拜托驻地酒店煮一碗长寿面，没想到酒店餐厅自制了奶油蛋糕，“谢谢你们能来”。
When a medical team member had a birthday party, a colleague asked the hotel to cook a bowl of long-lived noodles, but the hotel restaurant made homemade cream cake.
那之后，酒店餐厅记下了所有在住医护人员的生日，利用有限的材料做蛋糕，外圈的巧克力装饰是手掰的，有的像刀片，有的像石头，边上都放一块牌子“致敬逆行者”。
After that, the hotel restaurant noted all the birthdays of the in-patient staff, using a limited amount of ingredients to make the cake. The chocolate decorations on the outer ring were hand-picked, some resembling blades, others like stones, with a sign on the side that said "Hail the Inverse."
按照防护规定，房间需要医护人员自己打扫。
According to the protective regulations, the room needs to be cleaned by medical staff.
10平方米不到也要分3个区，进门是污染区，洗手间和过道是半污染区，床附近是清洁区。
Less than 10 square meters will also be divided into three sectors, access to the door is contaminated areas, toilets and corridors are semi-polluted areas, the bed is adjacent to the clean areas.
屋里走一圈，要换3双不同的鞋。
Walk around the house and change three pairs of different shoes.
离开医院前，医护人员要用酒精直接擦拭面部。
Before leaving the hospital, the paramedics clean their faces with alcohol.
有小护士沮丧，“本来皮肤就不好，这下更烂了”，也有人开玩笑，“明明脸特别干，捂了4个小时又捂出油来了”。
There are small nurses depressed, "the original skin is not good, this is worse," another joking, "obviously dry face, covering four hours and cover the oil.
摘掉手套后，大家会比一比手腕上的勒痕，“看我今天这镯子真霸气，这么粗！”站在酒店窗前，能看到长江景色。
After taking off the gloves, everyone would compare the strangulation on the wrist, "Look at my bracelets today so bully!" Standing at the window of the hotel, you can see the view of the Changjiang River.
江边有公园，来武汉20天后，有人想起来提议拍照留念。
River side park, came to Wuhan 20 days later, someone remembered to propose to take photos.
“谁带化妆品了！”有女生在工作群发问。
"Who has brought cosmetics!" Some girls in the work group asked.
“怎么可能！”“带那个有啥用？”还有人说，回到酒店，敷面膜的力气都没有了。
"How possible!" "What's the point of taking that?" Others said, back at the hotel, the strength of the mask was gone.
很多人想家了。
Many people are homesick.
同事们录个“疫情结束你想干什么”的视频，有人录着录着就开始哭，回到驻地还在哭。
Colleagues made a video of "What do you want to do when the epidemic is over" and someone started to cry on the tape and back at the station.
也有人计算归期。
Others calculate the return period.
孙贺想家里两只猫，想看动漫，想把早就混乱的作息时间调整过来，好好睡一觉。
Sun He wanted to see the cartoon, two cats, want to adjust the chaos of the work time over, a good sleep.
他原本打算2020年到武汉看樱花、吃热干面，“行动”意外提前，“项目”却全然不同。
He had planned to visit Wuhan in 2020 to see cherry blossoms and eat hot, dry noodles, but "action" ahead of schedule, "the project" is completely different.
不值班的时候，他和同事去送物资，为医疗队写日志。
When not on duty, he and his colleagues go to deliver supplies and write logs for the medical team.
有时他买鸭脖分给同事吃，不久前，他还策划了护士长的生日聚会。
Sometimes he bought duck neck to share with his colleagues, and not long ago, he planned the head nurse's birthday party.
赵培玉护士长穿上写满同事生日祝福的隔离衣。
Master nurse Zhao Peiyu wears an isolation garment full of birthday wishes from her colleagues.
受访者供图这一层重症病区投入使用之初，药品来得很慢，针头等耗材没有计数，第一例患者出院时，大家都是懵的，不知道怎么办“出院手续”。
The first patient was discharged from the hospital. They were stunned and did not know what to do with the "discharge formalities."
截至3月3日，已经有29名患者出院。
As at 3 March, 29 patients had been discharged.
咳嗽声几乎消失了，吸氧的咕嘟声也少了很多。
The cough almost disappeared, and the purr of oxygen was much less.
空床出现了，孙贺和同事值班时，有时间坐下来休息一会儿。
When the empty bed appeared, Sun He and his colleagues on duty had time to sit down and have a rest.
整个医护团队目前没有一人感染。
None of the entire care team is currently infected.
孙贺坚持着每天繁琐的消毒和防护程序，“都这会儿了，一松懈前面全白费”。
Sun He insisted on the daily cumbersome disinfection and protection procedures, "now, a relaxation of the front all in vain."
他是家里的独生子。
He is the only son in the family.
2019年，母亲得了场大病，他用掉了加班积攒出来的所有假期，回老家陪护。
In 2019, his mother became seriously ill, and he took all the time he had saved from working overtime to stay with him back home.
“从那之后，患者和家属的心情，我全都明白了。
"Since then, I have understood all the feelings of the patients and their families.
”中国青年报·中国青年网出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
"China Youth Daily & amp; China Youth Net & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
重症楼层的求生渴望。
Survival aspirations for the critical floor.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "重症楼层的求生渴望";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; on the critical floor.
var msg_desc = "他做了4年护士，没见过那样的场面。
var msg _ desc = & quot; He was a nurse for four years, and has never seen anything like that.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
