妈妈，我带你妈妈回家。
Mom, I'm taking your mom home.
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
吴尚哲和外婆 受访者供图小时候，外婆带着吴尚哲参加报社组织的小记者活动，外婆头发花白，左右手各拎一个书包，正好被记者拍了下来，发到报纸上，题目是《中国式小皇帝》。
Wu Shang-zhe and his grandmother were interviewed for a photo. When they were young, their grandmother and Wu Shanzhe took part in a small journalistic activity organized by the newspaper. The grandmother's hair was gray, her right hand and left hand were carrying a bag.
这一回，她的任务是把外婆带回家，“我垮了，我们家就完了。
This time it was her job to take Grandma home. "I broke down and we were done for.
”作者中青报·中青网记者 杨 杰编辑陈卓火神山医院没有夜晚。
The writer Zhongqing Newspaper Zhongqing Net reporter Yang Jie editorials Chen Zhuo Fosen Mountain Hospital has no night.
病房的窗户朝着走廊，走廊的那头还是病房。
The window of the ward looked out into the hallway, which was the ward.
道路还在施工，满是泥泞，素白的建筑间，人们穿着防护服行走。
Roads were still being built, muddy, white buildings, and people were walking in protective clothing.
看起来，这里像一个临时搭建的剧组。
It looks like a makeshift crew.
吴尚哲就在这里。
Wu Shangzhe is here.
她是位编剧，一个多月前还在北京的办公室构思医疗甜宠剧，现在，她一家四口每一位都成了疫情统计中的数字：有重症、有确诊、有疑似、有密切接触者。
She was a screenwriter and conceived of medical sweeteners in her Beijing office more than a month ago, and now everyone in her family is in the epidemic statistics: seriously ill, diagnosed, suspected, close contacts.
26岁的她为了照顾89岁的外婆，成为少有的从方舱医院搬到火神山医院的轻症病人，她对正在隔离的母亲说，“妈妈，我会照顾你的妈妈，然后带她一起回家。
"Mom, I'll take care of your mother and take her home with me," she told her mother, who was being quarantined to take care of her 89-year-old grandmother, the rare light-case patient who moved from the cabin hospital to Mount Fire.
”“死亡卡”外婆的情况不大好。
"" Death card "Grandma is not doing very well.
在火神山医院，她几天不吃不喝，拒绝医护人员的帮助。
At Mount Fire Hospital, she refused to eat or drink for days and refused medical help.
医院通知家人，若有亲人来照看，老人兴许能重拾求生欲。
The hospital told the family that if a relative came to look after him, the old man might regain his lust for life.
而这时，吴尚哲的父母都已成了新冠肺炎疑似病例，一个在酒店隔离，一个在家隔离，垃圾都不能倒。
By this time, Wu's parents had become suspected cases of pneumonia, a hotel isolation, a home isolation, garbage can not fall.
进入火神山医院照看，必须是确诊的患者。
Admission to Mount Fujimori Hospital must be a confirmed patient.
吴尚哲是唯一合适的一个。
Wu Shanzhe was the only one fit.
她的核酸检测结果呈阳性，那时住在武汉客厅方舱医院。
She tested positive for nucleic acid and lived at the Wuhan living room in Fang Cao Hospital.
她是1月19日从北京回到武汉的。
She returned to Wuhan from Beijing on January 19th.
为了早点回家，她特意改签了火车票，结果到武汉第二天，新冠病毒“人传人”的信息传出，在街道办工作的母亲和她先后发烧、腹泻、呕吐。
In order to go home earlier, she deliberately signed the train ticket, the next day, Wuhan, the new crown virus "person-to-person" information spread, the mother and she worked in the streets of fever, diarrhea, vomiting.
母亲反复刷新查询，没发现有疑似或确诊病例和女儿同乘一趟车。
The mother repeatedly refreshed the inquiry, did not find a suspected or confirmed case and daughter together on a bus.
吴尚哲线上问诊的结果也只是普通感冒加急性肠胃炎。
Wu Shanzhe line on the results of consultation is only common cold plus acute gastroenteritis.
母女俩久未见面，睡在一张床上，母亲沈馨莹有些后悔让她回武汉，但还是安慰道，“孩子别怕，这事应该不大，很快就会过去。
Mother and daughter did not see each other for a long time, sleep in a bed, mother Shen Ying some regret to let her back to Wuhan, but still consoled, "children do not fear, this matter should not be big, will soon pass.
”城市越来越空，她家临街的房间也变得异常安静，偶尔开过一辆车，架着喇叭里重复叫着“不要出门”。
As the city empties, her house in the street becomes unusually quiet, occasionally driving a car and honking "Don't go out."
“我们好像在一片乌云之下，不知道雷阵雨什么时候来。
"We seem to be under a cloud, not knowing when a thunderstorm will come.
”几天后，外婆突然发烧，情况急转直下。
"A few days later, Grandma suddenly had a fever and the situation deteriorated.
原先她每天两次遛狗，“走得比年轻人都快”，两三天内，突然无法从房间走到洗手间，拒绝进食，白的、红的、黄的，吐了一地。
She walked her dog twice a day, "faster than any young man," suddenly unable to walk from room to bathroom for two or three days, refusing to eat, white, red, yellow and vomiting.
“不去医院，会饿死；去医院，怕感染，痛苦的抉择，两条路，都是死路。
"If you don't go to the hospital, you starve to death; to a hospital, to infection, to a painful choice, to two roads.
”家里人挑了个夜晚人少的时候，把外婆送到武汉协和东西湖医院。
When the family selected a small night, they took Grandma to Wuhan Concorde East-West Lake Hospital.
一家人挨个儿查血象，拍CT。
The family went through the bloodstream, taking CT.
母亲和外婆双肺感染，有炎症，父亲肺部也有感染，只有吴尚哲最轻。
Mother and grandmother both lung infection, inflammation, father lung infection, only Wu Shangzhe the lightest.
夜里，吴尚哲躺在家中失眠，“以后我的家可能就是个空空的房间，或者他们不在了，只剩我一个。
At night, Wu Shangzhe lay in his home insomnia, "After my home may be an empty room, or they are not there, only me.
”那是她最害怕的一个夜晚，“明天，我和家人会成为‘疑似病例’上的4个数字。
"It was the night she dreaded most." Tomorrow my family and I will be four numbers on the list of suspected cases.
”2月13日查核酸结果，父亲是阴性。
On February 13, DNA tests showed that the father was negative.
紧接着轮到吴尚哲，她没怎么仔细辨认小小的“阴阳”二字，就发到家人群里，“肯定是阴性。
Then it was Wu Shangzhe, she did not carefully identify the small "Yin and Yang" word, sent to the family, "definitely negative.
”前一秒还兴奋的父亲，忽然愣住，“不对啊，你怎么是阳性？”他反复确认结果是不是拿错了，“好像我抽到一张死亡卡，他说不行，这个不是你抽到的，家里每个人都希望那张卡是自己抽到的。
"The father, still excited a second ago, was stunned," No, why are you positive? "He repeatedly confirmed that the result was wrong," as if I had drawn a death card, and he said no.
”母亲被隔离，发来视频，眼睛已经哭肿，后悔让女儿回了武汉。
"Mother was isolated, sent a video, eyes have been crying swollen, regret to let her daughter back to Wuhan.
最终结果，除了吴尚哲，全家人都是阴性。
In the end, all the family members except Wu were negative.
吴尚哲在朋友圈公布了消息，配了一张比基尼图片。
Wu Shanzhe announced the news in a circle of friends, with a picture of a bikini.
她常以乖巧面目示人，曾经不敢做的事，这一下忽然来了勇气。
What she had dared not to do, she had so often displayed her deportment, when courage suddenly came upon her.
“如果这是我朋友圈最后一张图片，我希望大家记住最美的一面，记住这张性感悲壮比基尼。
"If this is the last picture of my circle of friends, I want you to remember the best and the sexy, tragic bikini.
”吴尚哲的朋友圈 受访者供图吴尚哲属于轻症，进了武汉客厅方舱医院。
Wu Shangzhe, a friend of Wu's circle of friends, admitted to the Wuhan living room square cabin hospital for his mild illness.
外婆虽然核酸显示阴性，但临床判断症状较重，被送往火神山医院。
Grandmother although nucleic acid shows negative, but clinical judgement symptom is more serious, be sent to fire god mountain hospital.
在此之前，她最后一次跟外婆交流时，见她斜靠在医院冰冷的椅子上，挂着3瓶点滴，虚脱地哀嚎着“好冷”。
The last time she spoke to her grandmother, she reclined in a cold hospital chair, hanging three bottles of beer and screaming, "It's cold."
吴尚哲把羽绒服脱下，披在外婆身上，外婆突然一个激灵，叫她自己穿着。
Wu Shangzhe took off her down and put it on her grandma, who suddenly had an urge to dress herself.
“我好怕那是我和外婆说的最后一句话。
"I'm afraid that's the last thing Grandma and I said.
”吴尚哲的外婆 受访者供图方舱最乐观的女孩进方舱医院前，吴尚哲沐浴更衣剪指甲，还带了一本《托福核心词汇21天突破》。
Wu, who was interviewed by his grandmother, bathes and cuts her nails before allowing the most optimistic girl in the cabin to enter the cabin hospital, along with a 21-day breakthrough.
可是，表面笑嘻嘻，洗澡时痛哭流涕，吹头发才想起没用洗发水，“那时发现自己真的很慌。
But with a smile on his face and tears in his bath and hair dryer, he realized that he had no shampoo.
”进舱第一天，父亲打来电话慰问，吴尚哲说“一切都挺好的”。
"On the first day of the cabin, when his father called to express his sympathy, Wu said," Everything is fine.
旁边的大妈不耐烦地接了一句，“都来医院了，有什么好的。
The woman next to her answered impatiently, "We're all at the hospital. What's the good news?
”“还是挺悲凉的。
"" It's still very sad.
”吴尚哲说。
"said Wu.
她在方舱每天都能听到哭声。
She could hear crying every day in the cabin.
情绪像波浪一样，有高有低，一浪浪打过来，“在方舱跳舞的人，你看到的是他痛苦的浪过后的那一刻，真正的悲痛你看不见。
Emotions are like waves, ups and downs, waves come, "Dancers in the cabin, you see the moment after the waves of pain have passed, and the real grief is invisible.
”吴尚哲见过一个女人在走廊里一边打电话一边哭，她递过纸巾，对方没有接，下意识地后退一步——这在方舱很正常。
Wu once saw a woman crying on the phone in the hallway. She handed her tissue, but she did not answer.
挂了电话，女人说，她的老公也隔离起来了，没人照顾7岁的孩子。
Hanging up, the woman said, her husband was isolated, and no one looked after the seven-year-old.
进来的每个人都想尽快走，有个阿姨以为自己快走了，欢欢喜喜地把剩下的洗发水送给吴尚哲，后来她的核酸又转阳，一字之间，给人惊喜，给人失望。
Everyone who came in wanted to go as soon as possible. An aunt thought she was leaving soon and gave Wu Shang Zhe the rest of her shampoo happily.
隔壁64床的大姐常咳得厉害。
The big sister next door, 64, often coughs badly.
她圆圆的脸，圆圆的眼睛，烫着栗色小卷发。
Her round face, round eyes, hot chestnut curls.
她和吴尚哲不太聊天，他们俩说得最多的是“今天菜还挺好的”。
She and Wu Shanzhe do not talk much, they said most is "today is a good dish."
住进方舱的第三天，吴尚哲看到护士给64床戴了氧气袋。
On the third day of his stay in the cabin, Wu saw the nurse wearing an oxygen bag on his 64 bed.
她直直地望着，64床发现了她的注视，惨笑一声，“他们说我要转院，应该是病情严重了吧。
She looked straight at her, and the bed saw her gaze, with a wry grin. "They said I was going to be transferred to the hospital.
”她拿饭的手在抖。
Her hands trembled as she took the meal.
吴尚哲感到沉重，送给她一个鸡蛋补充营养。
Wu Shangzhe felt heavy and gave her an egg to supplement her nutrition.
64床狼吞虎咽吃下去，“我感觉她有很强的求生欲，想活。
The bed wolfed down. "I felt she had a strong desire to live.
”她俩的对话第一次深入。
"For the first time the conversation deepened.
64床的老公得了脑动脉血管瘤，这病凶险，两个月她一直在医院陪着抢救，没想到老公活了，她感染上了新冠病毒，家里还有未成年的孩子。
64-bed husband got cerebral artery hemangioma, this disease is dangerous, two months she has been in the hospital to accompany rescue, did not expect her husband to live, she was infected with the new crown virus, the family has underage children.
她瞒着自己的妈妈，每天母亲打来电话，她都沉着气假装健康，“先不告诉她了，万一我能活呢？”“这里的人都不大好，却都在担心着别人。
She kept the secret from her mother, who pretended to be healthy every day when her mother called, "If I don't tell her, what if I live?" "People aren't very nice here, but they're worried about other people.
”那差不多是她们最后的对话。
It was almost their last conversation.
那天吴尚哲很累，不久就睡着了，再一睁眼，64床已经是一张空床。
Wu was very tired that day, soon fell asleep, and once again opened his eyes, 64 bed is already an empty bed.
她走后，床头贴的信息撕掉了，吴尚哲甚至来不及知道她的名字。
After she left, the information posted at the head of the bed was torn off. Wu didn't even have time to know her name.
在这里，吴尚哲让自己尽量心态平和。
Here, Wu Shanzhe makes himself as calm as possible.
她发朋友圈说中药一号方像加了薄荷的美式咖啡，二号方像馊掉的意式特浓咖啡。
She has friends who say TCM # 1 is like American coffee with mint and No. 2 is like rancid espresso.
她用Vlog记录在方舱的生活，说要向阳而生，做方舱最乐观的女孩。
She used Vlog to record her life in the cabin. She said she wanted to live in the sun and be the most optimistic girl in the cabin.
她对着手机自拍，调各种角度。
She took pictures of herself on her cell phone, playing at various angles.
在方舱，自拍成了热爱生命的表现。
In the cabin, self-photography became a love of life.
她说自己是个臭美的小姑娘，日常活得精致，在公司上厕所，随身携带日本生产的除臭剂，今天用薄荷味，明天用玫瑰味。
She described herself as a beautiful little girl, living a delicate daily routine, using toilet facilities at the company, carrying a deodorant made in Japan with her, scented peppermint today and rose tomorrow.
方舱的厕所像塑料电话亭，连续打开3间，如果有一间是干净的，便是她那天“卑微的小欢喜”。
The bathrooms in the cabin looked like plastic telephone booths, which opened three times in a row. If one was clean, it was her "humble joy" that day.
在方舱的最后一天，吴尚哲终于见到了广场舞，“在现场看的时候，特别燃，我一下子就掉泪了。
On the last day of the cabin, Wu finally saw the square dance. "When I saw it on the spot, I burst into tears.
”站c位大妈穿着粉色珊瑚绒睡衣，自信地教大家动作。
Standing in her pink coral velvet pajamas, Aunt C taught everyone to move confidently.
“在家里，她跳广场舞可能会遭到家人嫌弃，但在方舱，但凡对生命有追求的举动都会带来好感。
"At home, she may be rejected by her family, but in the cabins, but any move toward life brings good will.
”家庭破碎，身体病痛，不掩武汉人的潇洒，“隔着口罩，我都能看见她的笑容。
"Broken family, physical pain, do not cover Wuhan people's chic," across the mask, I can see her smile.
”吴尚哲说，整个疫情的过程痛苦，但片段的截取是快乐的。
Wu said the whole outbreak was painful, but the snippet was happy.
吴尚哲在火神山医院 受访者供图火神山“葫芦娃”“方舱对我来说是避难所”，吴尚哲怕听到家人的坏消息。
Wu Shanzhe in the fire god mountain hospital interviewee supply picture fire god mountain "cucuruwa" "The cabin is a refuge for me," Wu Shanzhe was afraid to hear the bad news from his family.
2月17日，一通电话还是打来了。
On 17 February, a telephone call was again made.
妈妈告知外婆病危，全家只有她是阳性，能转去火神山医院照顾。
Mother told Grandma that she was critically ill and that she was the only one in the family who could be transferred to Mount Fire Hospital.
爸爸极力反对。
Father objected strongly.
“你不能拿20多岁的生命去换外婆90岁的生命。
"You can't trade your life in your 20s for the life of Grandma at 90.
”他跟妻子说“千万阻止姑娘去火神山”。
He said to his wife, "Do not let the girl go to Mount Fire.
直到现在，父亲也不认同女儿的做法，“从道德层面讲，做的是对的，但还是比较鲁莽，是不是有更好的办法解决。
Up to now, fathers have disapproved of their daughters, "morally, doing the right thing, but still being reckless, is there a better way to solve it."
”“对于疼爱孩子的父母来说，一分风险也会放大100倍。
"Parents who love their children also show a 100-fold increase in risk.
”吴尚哲说。
"said Wu.
沈馨莹听着丈夫和女儿争论，不敢作声。
Shen Yingying listened to her husband and daughter's argument, dare not say a word.
她在隔离的酒店独自痛苦，一边是母亲，一边是女儿，“她都握不住。
She suffered alone in the seclusion of the wine-shop, between her mother and her daughter.
”沈馨莹送母亲住院时，没来得及说一句安慰的话。
When Shen sent her mother to hospital, she didn't have time to say a word of comfort.
“当时只想着一床难求，我们怎么这么好运气，碰到好的医生收治了，也没求人。
"We were so lucky to meet a good doctor, and we didn't ask for anyone," he said.
”出来后，她想再说几句话，已经不能返回。
When she came out, she wished to say a few words more, and could not return.
20多天过去了，沈馨莹没见过母亲，“虽然隔离条件不错，但家里不停传来不好的消息，平常亲人能做的，我都做不了。
More than 20 days passed, Shen Ying did not see her mother, "Although the isolation conditions are good, but the family did not stop sending bad news, ordinary relatives can do, I can not do.
”“如果这次我妈妈不行了，希望女儿能见她最后一面。
"" If my mother doesn't do it this time, I hope my daughter will see her one last time.
”沈馨莹说，“女儿是个编剧，人生该体验的过程，也总要经历。
'Daughter is a screenwriter, 'says Ms. Shen.' The experience of life is always a process.
”她试着说服自己。
She tried to persuade herself.
吴尚哲的父亲立即反驳，“让她体验这个干什么，这是瘟疫啊。
Wu's father immediately retorted, "Let her experience what this is, it is the plague."
”吴尚哲已经收拾好行李，转院电话迟迟不来，想到最后见到外婆的画面，她蹲在地上嚎啕大哭。
Wu had packed her bags and was late for the transfer. She cried loudly as she thought of seeing her grandmother at last.
“我想转到火神山也是赎罪。
"I want to go to Mount Fire to atone for it.
”吴尚哲说，当初外婆发病没有及时送去医院，“她现在遭受的痛苦，有一部分是我的原因。
"Wu said the illness was not sent to the hospital in time," part of the pain she is suffering now is my cause.
”她没看过火神山建设的视频，印象中那是离自己很遥远的地方。
She had not seen videos of the construction of Mount Fire, which she remembered as being far away from her.
做了转院的决定后，她也有些后怕，但仍然逞强。
After the decision to transfer the hospital, she was afraid, but still brave.
2月19日转院当天，她在微博上写了4个字，“义无反顾”。
On February 19, the day she was transferred to the hospital, she wrote four words on Weibo, "No turning back."
她的父亲“很直男，说话不好听”，那几天，他每天发红包，红包上挂着一句暖心的话，“我爱你们，盼早日归。
Her father "very straight man, not easy to listen to," those days, he issued red envelopes, red envelopes hung warm words, "I love you, look forward to an early return.
”吴尚哲说，自己去火神山并不是冒险送死，而是要把外婆带回来。
Wu said he was not going to Mount Fire to risk his life, but to bring back his grandmother.
救护车擦着城市的边过，萧瑟的街道在吴尚哲身后倒退。
Ambulances brushed the edge of the city, and the bleak streets retreated behind Wu.
“我走的时候，方舱正在唱KTV，来到这边突然很冷清，很肃穆。
"When I left, the cabin was singing KTV, and came here suddenly very cold and solemn.
”火神山医院有大面积的白色，她透过窗口看到走廊对面的病房正在做心肺复苏，医护人员的手一下一下往下按。
She saw through the window that the ward across the hallway was undergoing cardiopulmonary resuscitation, and the hands of the paramedics were pressing down.
当吴尚哲见到外婆时，老人半昏迷，耳背，她一遍遍喊着“家家”（武汉话，外婆），拉着她的手，外婆的眼睛慢慢睁开，惊慌地问，“这次是不是挺不过来了？”吴尚哲摇头，摸着她的额头安慰。
When Wu Shang Zhe saw her grandmother, the old man was half unconscious, her ears, she repeatedly called "family" (Wuhan dialect, grandmother), her hands slowly open, panic asked, "This is not quite over it?" Wu Shangzhe shook his head and touched her forehead comfort.
后来，老人突然惊醒，震惊中带着愤怒，“你？你怎么过来的？你不要过来啊，会传染的。
Then the old man woke up suddenly, shocked and angry. "You? How did you get along? Don't come here. It's contagious."
”同屋的病友告诉吴尚哲，她来了之后，老人晚上终于没有一直哀嚎了。
Her roommate told Wu that the old man didn't whine all night long after she arrived.
“外婆年轻时切胆囊，下了8个管子，吹了一辈子牛，这次老人真的吓到了。
"Grandma cut her gall bladder when she was young and blew eight tubes and blew a cow for the rest of her life.
”她看到一个骄傲的老太太，丧失了尊严。
She lost her dignity when she saw a proud old lady.
习惯性呕吐，让老人拒绝进食，她常常盯着注射剂，看着点滴一滴一滴地流下来。
Habitual vomiting, let old people refuse to eat, she often stare at injection, watching the drop by drop down.
医护来打针，她颤巍巍地想要举手比划一个胜利姿势，又努力摇了摇护士的手，表达感谢。
Medical attention to the injection, she trembled to raise her hand than a victory gesture, and shook the nurse's hand hard to express gratitude.
护士的眼眶红了。
The nurse's eyes were red.
吴尚哲开玩笑说自己不是什么孝顺孩子，在家爱吵架顶嘴、好吃懒做，“大概一个月前，我还是个吃苹果都要爸妈削好的娇生惯养熊孩子。
Wu joked that he was not a dutiful child, quarrelling and lazy at home. "About a month ago, I was a spoiled brat who ate apples and wanted my parents to peel them off.
现在，我都会给老人换纸尿裤了。
Now, I can change old people's diapers.
”她千方百计想让外婆吃一口，老太太想喝水时，她把白粥里较清的部分，舀出来喂了进去。
"She made every effort to get Grandmother to take a bite, and when the old lady wanted some water, she scooped out the clearer portion of the porridge and fed it.
呕吐严重时，她一打开开水瓶，外婆就一脸惊恐，摇头说 “我不吃，我不喝，什么都不要给我”。
When she opened her jar of water when vomiting was severe, Grandma shook her head in horror and said, "I won't eat, I won't drink, don't give me anything."
外婆喜欢盯着她看，每次注意到外婆的目光，吴尚哲“故意耍宝”，吃饭时努力吧唧嘴，一副享受美食的样子。
Grandmother likes to stare at her, every time noted the grandmother's eyes, Wu Shang Zhe "deliberately juggling treasure", eating hard, like a gourmet look.
她还尝试过用“道德绑架法”劝外婆进食。
She has also tried "moral kidnapping" to persuade her grandmother to eat.
护士给她拿来米粉，医生把发的一箱八宝粥都送给了她。
The nurse brought her rice noodle and the doctor gave her a box of eight-treasure gruel.
吴尚哲告诉外婆，大家对她如此好，她一定要吃一口。
Wu told her grandmother that she must take a bite when everyone was so kind to her.
她跟外婆拉勾、拍照取证。
She hooked up with Grandma and took pictures and evidence.
结果第二天外婆还是只把食物含在嘴里，不下咽。
Results The next day the grandmother still only contains the food in the mouth, does not swallow.
“我当时特别生气，吓唬她，作势要走，就像以前在家里发脾气，假装摔门。
'I was particularly angry at that time, threatening her, and trying to go, as I used to lose my temper at home, and pretend to throw a door.
”老人只能用悲伤的眼神望着她，吴尚哲后悔自责，“我来的时候有种使命感，只有我能救她。
"The old man could only look at her with sad eyes, Wu Shangzhe regretted his self-reproach.
”外婆伸出大拇指说，“不逼我吃东西，就是这个”。
"Grandmother extended her thumb and said," That's all I need to eat.
然后伸出小拇指，撇嘴，“逼我吃东西，这个”。
Then he held out his thumb and curled his mouth, "force me to eat, this."
晚上，外婆拉着她说了好多话， 她信佛，说，“这辈子我的（恩情）你都还完了。
In the evening, Grandma pulled her to say a lot of words. She believed in Buddha and said, "You have paid me back all my life.
”2月的最后一天，外婆在夜里忽然失明。
"On the last day of February, Grandmother went blind in the night.
“很像《还珠格格》里紫薇失明的片段，她一直让我开灯，我已经开了，但她还是看不到。
"Much like the part of The Pearl Grill where the crape myrtle went blind, she kept asking me to turn on the light, and I did, but she couldn't see it.
”吴尚哲想象着外婆的恐惧，听不见，也看不着，像被关在密封的盒子里，担心她丧失求生的欲望。
Wu imagines her grandmother's fear, unable to hear or see, as if locked in a sealed box, worried that she would lose her desire to survive.
“前一天还挺有精神的，像个小孩问我什么时候能回家，叫我最初的小名。
"The day before had been a brisk day, like a child asking me when I would be able to go home and call me my first name.
”逐渐确认自己失去视力后，外婆一直哭叫、摇头，吴尚哲爬上她的病床，牵着她的手，两人在一米宽的床上蜷缩着入睡，老人用大拇指反复摩擦外孙女的手指。
After gradually confirming that she had lost her sight, the grandmother cried and shook her head. Wu climbed into her bed and took her hand. The two fell asleep curled up in a bed one metre wide, and the old man rubbed his thumbs on her granddaughter's fingers.
第二天，外婆下胃管，手在空中乱抓，心率忽然升到200。
The next day, grandmother's stomach tube, hand clutching in the air, heart rate suddenly rose to 200.
医生说，外婆相当于一直在以极快的速度跑步。
Doctors say Grandma has been running very fast.
六七个护士迅速急救，吴尚哲握着她的手，似乎是能给她的唯一安慰。
Six or seven nurses gave quick first aid, and Wu Shanzhe took her hand as if it were the only consolation she could get.
“你们家里人说一句话，顶我们说十句。
One word from your family, and ten from us.
”火神山医护人员的声音透过层层口罩传来，显得闷闷的。
"The voice of the Fire Mountain paramedics was muffled through the layers of masks.
“他们见过无数生死，却珍惜每一个生命，这是我对他们最大的感激。
"I owe them the greatest debt of gratitude for the countless lives they have seen and the life they have cherished.
”吴尚哲说，“有人觉得我外婆89岁了，救治是浪费国家资源，但在医生护士眼里，他们看到的是一条生命，无差别对待。
"Some people think my grandmother is 89 years old, and treating her is a waste of national resources, but in the eyes of doctors and nurses, they see a life without discrimination," Wu said.
”吴尚哲的Vlog在网上传播开后，医护人员也在手机上关注她。
After Wu's Vlog spread online, doctors and nurses followed her on the phone.
“方舱每个患者都是数字，这里每个医护都是形状。
"Every patient in the cabin is a number, and every care here is a shape.
”他们穿着铠甲一样的防护服，看不清面目。
They were wearing armour-like protective clothing and could not see clearly.
在这家临时组建的医院，医生和护士来自各地，彼此不熟识，但他们都知道吴尚哲。
In the makeshift hospital, doctors and nurses come from different places and do not know each other well, but they all know Wu.
外婆转去ICU，暂时稳定下来，但仍未脱离危险期。
Grandmother transferred to ICU, temporarily stabilized, but still not out of danger.
“突然发现我变得有点坚强。
"Suddenly I realized I was getting a little stronger.
”吴尚哲哭了一会，但还能冷静吃饭。
"Wu Shanzhe wept for a while, but he was able to eat calmly.
她以前一向把情绪写在脸上，哭和笑的阈值都低，被朋友嘲笑脸上有弹幕。
She used to write down her emotions on her face, and the thresholds for crying and laughing were low, and she was laughed at by her friends for having a curtain on her face.
沈馨莹说女儿学会了忍住，“对着我妈还在笑，背着脸肯定哭得像个鬼。
Shen Xing Ying said the daughter learned to resist, "to my mother is still laughing, face must cry like a ghost.
”小时候，外婆带着吴尚哲参加报社组织的小记者活动，外婆头发花白，左右手各拎一个书包，正好被记者拍了下来，发到报纸上，题目是《中国式小皇帝》。
When I was a child, my grandmother took Wu Shangzhe to join the activities organized by the newspaper. Her hair was grey, and her right hand and left hand were carrying a schoolbag.
这一回，她的任务是把外婆带回家，“我垮了，我们家就完了。
This time it was her job to take Grandma home. "I broke down and we were done for.
”工作室的老师眼中，吴尚哲是个娇娇嗲嗲的女孩子，戴兔耳朵和三个问号的发箍，剧本里积极阳光的可爱女二号形象，参考了她的特质。
In the studio's teacher's eyes, Wu is a sweet satay girl, with bunny ears and three question-mark hair hoop, and a lovely, sunny No. 2 girl in the script, which refers to her idiosyncrasies.
这次疫情，他对吴尚哲刮目相看。
He looked at Wu with new eyes at the outbreak.
吴尚哲 受访者供图以前让她流泪的东西，她不会再流泪；以前让她在意的东西，也没那么在意了。
Wu Shang Zhe interviewee provided pictures of things that made her cry before, she will not shed tears; what she cared about before, she did not care so much.
武汉封城以来，她陆续删除了200个微信好友，“没有时间精力维护那么多关系。
Wuhan since the closure of the city, she has deleted 200 micro-letter friends, "do not have the time and energy to maintain so many relations.
”她觉得自己一夜长大了，只是长大的方式很痛，不是循序渐进地痛，而是时代的大手拔苗助长，“让我不得不从泥土里伸出来，扯着我的所有情感。
"She felt as if she had grown up overnight, but in a way that hurt not so much in stages, but in the pulling out of the great hands of the time, that I had to come out of the earth and pull all my emotions.
”上初中时，吴尚哲给自己起了个英文名Heroine，既是女主角，又是女英雄。
In junior high school, Wu gave himself an English name, Heroine, who was both a heroine and a heroine.
“当时玛丽苏，觉得这个名字可跩了，直到有一天，别人跟我说，这个名字就像一个老外起名‘葫芦娃’。
"Then Marisu felt that the name was snooty until one day someone told me that it was like a foreigner named 'gourmet'.
”她喜欢这个英文名里带着的力量和少年感。
"She liked the power and sense of youth that came with the English name.
现在，“葫芦娃”有了新名号，“火神山女孩”，她成了“肺炎网红”。
Now, "Huluwa" has a new name, "fire god mountain girl," she became "pneumonia net red."
网友们关注她的日记，说“我们都是外婆的‘云孙子’”。
The netizens pay attention to her diary and say, "We are all grandma 'cloud grandson'."
其中一个网友翻出旧帖，那时外公刚刚去世，吴尚哲不得见最后一面，沉重地写下，“以后要对外婆好一点。
One of the netizens turned out the old post, just then grandfather died, Wu Shang Zhe can not see the last side, heavy write down, "in the future to grandmother better.
”网友在这条久远的状态下回复了4个字：“你做到了。
"In that remote situation, netizens answered four words:" You did it.
”中国青年报·中国青年网出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
"China Youth Daily & amp; China Youth Net & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
妈妈，我带你妈妈回家。
Mom, I'm taking your mom home.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "妈妈，我带你妈妈回家";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Mum, I took your mother home and quot;;
var msg_desc = "去火神山，救外婆";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; went to Mount Fire to save Grandma & quot;;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
