方舱医院的800块拼图。
Eight hundred pieces of jigsaw puzzle from the cabin hospital.
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
2月4日下午，武汉洪山体育馆主馆内已经摆置好了200余张床和垫被，等待患者入住。
On the afternoon of Feb. 4, more than 200 beds and quilts have been set up in the main stadium in Hongshan, Wuhan, waiting for the patients to move in.
这家方舱医院总计提供了约800张床位。
The cabin hospital provides a total of about 800 beds.
中青报·中青网见习记者 鲁冲/摄本文约8040字预计阅读时间21分钟作者 | 中青报·中青网记者 王嘉兴编辑| 从玉华建成34年的武汉市洪山体育馆第一次成为一家医院。
About 8040 words Anticipated Reading Time 21 Minutes By Zhongqing News Zhongqing Zhongqing News Correspondent Wang Jiaxing The Hongshan Stadium in Wuhan City, built 34 years after Yuhua, became a hospital for the first time.
这个迎接过小虎队、李宗盛、NBA明星队等名人的地标，近一个月最多同时容纳了近800名患者。
The landmark, which welcomed the Tigers, Lee Seung-sheng and NBA stars, accommodated up to 800 patients a month at most.
48岁的张兵曾送女儿到这里学游泳，还曾作为保安维持克莱德曼钢琴音乐会的秩序。
Zhang Bing, 48, sent his daughter here to learn how to swim and served as a security guard to keep order at Kleidmann's piano concert.
他对这个体育馆很熟悉，但他从没想过，自己有一天将作为患者，在这里生活15天。
He knew the stadium well, but he never thought he would one day live here as a patient for 15 days.
2020年2月3日，洪山体育馆成为首批被改建为收治新冠肺炎轻症患者的方舱医院，它是武汉市计划或已经建设的32家方舱医院之一。
On February 3, 2020, Hongshan Stadium, one of the 32 planned or built Fangcao hospitals in Wuhan, became the first to be converted into a new cabin hospital for patients with mild pneumonia.
这座人口超千万的城市，累计已有约5万人确诊新冠肺炎。
About 50,000 people have been diagnosed with pneumonia in this city with a population of more than 50 million.
仅洪山体育馆方舱医院，就有来自河北、辽宁、湖南、青海、广西等地的援汉医疗队进驻。
Hongshan Stadium Fang Cao Hospital alone, from Hebei, Liaoning, Hunan, Qinghai, Guangxi and other places to enter.
在这个寒冷的冬日，先后有上千名患者挤进这片屋檐，开始了“床挨着床”的群居生活。
On this cold winter day, thousands of patients crowded into the eaves and began a "bed-by-bed" social life.
相 遇洪山体育馆方舱医院从筹备到迎接第一批患者，时间不足48小时。
It took less than 48 hours to prepare for the arrival of the first group of patients at Hongshan Stadium.
2月4日深夜1点，睡梦中的刘连梅接到电话，医院通知紧急集合。
At 1 p.m. on February 4, Liu Lianmei in her sleep received a telephone call from the hospital informing her of the emergency gathering.
她是青海省互助县中医院急诊科护士长，常在深夜紧急赶往医院。
She is the head nurse of emergency department of Qinghai Mutual Aid County Chinese Hospital.
电话里没有说明具体事宜，但她和丈夫隐约感到，可能是要援助武汉，丈夫便驱车送她。
No details were given, but she and her husband vaguely felt that they might be trying to help Wuhan, so they drove her off.
凌晨3点，刘连梅和4名同事被定为支援湖北医疗队队员，早上8点集合。
At 3 a.m., Liu Lianmei and four colleagues were assigned to support the members of the Hubei Medical Team.
出发前，刘连梅5岁的儿子已经醒来。
Liu Lianmei's five-year-old son had woken up before leaving.
面对“妈妈要去哪里”的疑问，刘连梅说 ，“妈妈要去很远的地方学习，你在家里听爷爷奶奶的话。
Faced with the question, Liu said, "Mom is going to study far away. You listen to her grandparents at home.
”想到可能要理短发，又补了一句，“妈妈为了学习，可能要把头发剪成你这样。
"Thinking that she might cut her hair short, she added," Mom, to learn, might have to cut your hair like this.
”第二天，在看守所工作的刘连梅的丈夫也开始隔离工作。
The next day, Liu's husband, who works in the detention centre, also began to work in isolation.
刘连梅抵达武汉后，才知道自己要支援“方舱医院”。
Liu Lianmei arrived in Wuhan, only to know that they should support "the cabin hospital."
她只在新闻里听过这个词，不知道它的概念，也没见过图片。
She had heard the word only in the news, did not know its concept, and had never seen a picture.
她想不到，自己将要面对“一整个体育馆的病人”。
She had no idea that she was going to face "a whole stadium patient."
刘连梅接到电话时，千里之外的武汉洪山体育馆，中国一冶的第一批27名突击队员已经开始作业，一些工人刚从雷神山医院建设现场赶来。
When Liu received the call, the first batch of 27 commandos from Yicheng Yi, Wuhan, thousands of miles away, had already started their work, and some workers had just arrived from the construction site of Raytheon Mountain Hospital.
不到48小时后，这座方舱医院将迎来第一批患者。
In less than 48 hours, the cabin hospital will have its first patients.
2月5日晚11点，这里正进行最后的整备，第一批病人半小时后就要入场了。
Final preparations were under way here at 11 p.m. on February 5, and the first patients were due in half an hour.
电工储海宁师傅已经34小时没有合眼，短暂休息后，他又开始地下室场馆的排线工作。
After a 34-hour hiatus, the electrician, who had been without eyes for 34 hours, began work on the basements.
数百名身着“中国卫生”队服的医务人员从他身边列队进驻，他们脚边还散落着电线。
Hundreds of medical personnel dressed in Chinese health uniforms lined up beside him, with wires strewn around their feet.
几十名工作人员正紧急安装围栏，划分清洁区和污染区。
Dozens of staff are urgently installing fences to delineate clean-up areas and contaminated areas.
体育馆的另一侧大门，数十个移动厕所刚安装好。
Dozens of mobile toilets have just been installed at the other side of the stadium.
厕所内黑黢黢的，还没有灯；用于消毒患者排泄物的消毒池还在建设中。
There was no light in the toilet; the disinfection pool for disinfecting patients' excreta was still under construction.
方舱内已经清场。
The square bay has been cleared.
湖南湘雅二医院的4名医护人员在清洁区穿好了防护服，才发现没有护目镜，紧急求助，最后找上海华山医院医疗队借到了。
Hunan Xiangya II Hospital 4 medical personnel in the cleaning area put on protective clothing, only to find no goggles, emergency help, finally asked the Shanghai Huashan Hospital Medical Team to borrow.
而这几个护目镜，本来是给6小时后将接班的4名医护人员用的。
The goggles were meant for four paramedics who were due to take over in six hours.
救护车正在转运病人。
The ambulance is transferring the patient.
凄风冷雨中，几名医生坐在体育馆外的临时帐篷中预诊。
Several doctors sat in makeshift tents outside the gymnasium during the bleak weather.
由于防护服不透气，一名医生的内衣被汗水浸透，很快被吹得冰凉。
As the suit was airtight, a doctor's underwear was soaked in sweat and was quickly blown cold.
2月2日，武汉市提出将对“四类人员”集中收治和隔离。
February 2, Wuhan city proposed to "four categories of personnel" concentrated treatment and isolation.
2月5日前后，仍有大量确诊患者居家隔离。
Around 5 February, a large number of confirmed patients remained isolated in their homes.
那是46岁的方蕾最绝望的时刻。
That was the most desperate moment for 46-year-old Fang Lei.
她的公公已经卧病在床两周，几乎无法进食，一家人找遍了关系寻不到一张床位。
Her father-in-law had been confined to bed for two weeks, barely able to feed, and the family had searched for a bed.
2月5日，公公确诊新冠肺炎，之前还怀有一丝侥幸的方蕾眼前一黑，“一家人都逃不了。
Feb. 5, father-in-law confirmed the new crown pneumonia, but also a little luck before the eyes of a black, "the family can not escape.
”之后几天，她的婆婆、11岁的女儿小梦、她本人陆续确诊。
A few days later, her mother-in-law, her 11-year-old daughter, dreamt of her own diagnosis.
45岁的陈军那时在武汉市中南医院住院。
Chen Jun, 45, was hospitalized at Wuhan Zhongnan Hospital.
此前，他高烧39℃近一周，血氧一度低于90%。
He had a high fever of 39 degrees Celsius for nearly a week and blood oxygen of less than 90 percent.
没插管、没上激素，他挺了过来，已经能下床走动。
No cannula, no hormones, he made it through and was able to get out of bed.
陈军偶尔看新闻，知道很多病情比自己严重得多的患者住院无门。
Chen Jun occasionally reads the news and knows that many patients with much more serious illnesses are hospitalized.
重症病房让陈军极度压抑。
The intensive care unit was extremely depressing to Chen.
他同病房的几个病友整日戴着呼吸机，不翻身，几乎不说话。
He wore a ventilator all day, did not turn over, and hardly spoke.
夜深人静的时候，病房里只有监护仪的“嘀嘀”声，病友厚重的呼吸声和痛苦的呻吟。
In the dead of night, there was only the sound of "ticks" in the ward, the heavy breathing and painful moans of the patient's patients.
陈军压着声音咳嗽，很少下床走动，怕影响病友。
Chen Jun pressure voice coughing, rarely out of bed walk, afraid of affecting the patient.
几天后，他从中南医院转入方舱医院。
A few days later, he was transferred from the South Central Hospital to the Fang Causeway Hospital.
陈军看到有网友说方舱医院是“诺亚方舟”，他很喜欢这个比喻，“之前心里很恐慌，来到方舱，觉得有救了。
Chen Jun saw netizens say that Fang Cao Hospital is "Noah's Ark." He liked this metaphor very much.
”张兵2月6日刚过零点接到通知，自己将被方舱医院收治。
Zhang Bing was notified just after midnight on February 6 that he would be admitted to the cabin hospital.
“听到医院两个字就很开心了，管他什么医院。
"It's good to hear the word hospital, whatever.
”他从1月27日起发烧，还要照顾同样染病的岳母。
"He has had a fever since January 27 and has to take care of his mother-in-law, who is also ill.
那几天，他们在医院输液，一排队就是一整天。
On those days, they were in the hospital infusion, queuing up all day.
2月5日下午，他联系上床位，把岳母送进医院。
On the afternoon of 5 February, he contacted his bed and took his mother-in-law to hospital.
2月6日凌晨3点，他被统一安排的大巴车接上，连夜进入方舱。
At 3 a.m. on 6 February, he was connected by a bus, which had been jointly arranged, and entered the cabin overnight.
对那个夜晚，他只记得雨“很大很大”。
For that night, all he remembered was that the rain was "very big."
之后，他在病床上躺了整整两天。
After that, he stayed in his bed for two whole days.
张兵是洪山体育馆方舱医院的首批患者。
Zhang Bing was one of the first patients at Hongshan Stadium's Fang Cao Hospital.
这座“庇护所”还有大量细节等待完善，即将有近千人在此共同生活。
There are still plenty of details waiting to be worked out, with nearly a thousand people living together.
磨 合在方舱医院，床与床间隔约1米，这是患者隐私的尺度。
Abrasion in the square cabin hospital, bed and bed spacing of about 1 meter, this is a measure of patient privacy.
1米，够放一张课桌。
One meter, enough for a desk.
课桌上印着“25中”字样，它们来自附近的武汉市第二十五中学。
On the desk were printed the words "25 in," which came from the nearby Wuhan Municipal Twenty-fifth Middle School.
这张课桌和约2米长、1米宽的床，构成了一名患者全部的私人空间。
The desk, about 2 metres long and 1 metre wide, constitutes all of a patient's private space.
每一张病床背后，都藏着一个家庭的喜乐悲苦。
Behind every hospital bed lurks the joys and sorrows of a family.
这里可能是歧视最难以立足的地方，没有人会因为病毒而被另眼看待。
This may be where discrimination is most difficult to establish, and no one will be treated differently because of the virus.
几乎每张书桌周围，都立着、卷着CT片。
Around almost every desk, CT scrolls stand and roll up.
方舱的第一天是混乱的。
The first day of the cabin was chaotic.
饭菜是凉的。
The food was cold.
卫生间很脏。
The bathroom is dirty.
方舱也很冷，没有热水洗澡。
The cabin was also cold and no hot water to bathe in.
开水机附近全是水，有人为了防护铺上了快递箱，结果显得更脏。
The boiling water machine was full of water, and someone had put a express box in order to protect it, which made it even dirtier.
一些插座没有电，用不了电热毯，也没法给手机充电。
Some sockets don't have electricity, don't use electric blankets, and don't recharge your phone.
张兵理解人们的焦急。
Zhang Bing understands people's anxieties.
“我家几个老人在不同的医院，老婆在宾馆隔离，只能靠手机联络。
"Several of my elderly in different hospitals, the wife in the hotel isolation, can only rely on mobile phone contact.
大家都是这个情况。
This is the case for all of us.
”一名护士还在交接班，身边就已经围满了患者。
A nurse was still on the shift, surrounded by patients.
有的要吃药，有的要卫生纸、要热水，不断人问“有没有WiFi”。
Some want medicine, some want toilet paper, some need hot water, and others keep asking "Wi-Fi."
一名医生说，有患者进来不久就摔东西，大吼要出去。
One doctor said a patient came in and threw things and yelled to get out.
那天夜里，很多人一夜未眠。
Many people did not sleep that night.
除了焦虑、不适应，还因为场馆24小时亮灯。
In addition to anxiety, maladjustment, but also because the venue 24-hour lights.
一些患者找护士讨来安定药物才睡着。
Some patients fall asleep after seeking antidote from a nurse.
刘连梅最大的感受是压抑：多数人一天到晚都待在床上，用被子捂着头，根本不动。
Liu's biggest feeling is repression: most people stay in bed all day, covering their heads with quilts and not moving at all.
“我去问了，他们没有不舒服，只是没心情活动。
"I asked. They're not feeling well, they're just not in the mood.
”2月21日，武汉市洪山体育馆方舱医院内，两名患者躺着在床上看手机。
On February 21, two patients lay on their beds looking at their cell phones at the Fang Causeway Hospital in Hongshan Stadium, Wuhan.
中青报·中青网见习记者鲁冲/摄迷迷糊糊躺在床上时，张兵看到了一个收拾垃圾的人，没穿防护服，头发都白了。
While lying in bed in a daze, Zhang Bing saw a man picking up the garbage. He was wearing no protective clothing and his hair was white.
他意识到，这个人也是病人。
He realized that this man was also a patient.
那时他就想，等好些了，要去帮忙。
Then he thought, It's better to wait and help.
打扫起卫生后，他又看不过去开水机渍水，找来水桶暂时储存废水，定期倾倒。
After cleaning up, he can not see past the water machine wpa, find a bucket to temporarily store waste water, regular dumping.
后来，他打算倒废水时，发现已经有人倒过了。
Later, when he tried to empty the waste water, he found that someone had fallen over.
“谁都不想自己生活在一个乱糟糟的环境中……人就是这样，要么都不做，有一个人站出来，就会有很多人一起做。
"No one wants to live in a mess... that's what people do, or don't do it. When one person stands up, there are a lot of people doing it together."
”一开始是星星点点的。
"It started out as a tiny speck.
有人帮医护人员送药、分发餐食，有人帮忙安抚新进舱的患者。
Medicines were delivered, meals were distributed, and help was provided to soothe the new compartments.
听说方舱产生的垃圾里混了牛奶和粥，不便焚烧处理，有人自发宣传和指导病友做垃圾分类，还轮流在垃圾桶边站岗。
It is said that the garbage generated by the cabin is mixed with milk and porridge. It is not easy to be burned.
根据地理位置，病友把方舱划成了8个区域，排班做卫生，按分区领盒饭。
According to the geographical location, the patient divided the cabin into eight areas, arranged to do the sanitation, according to the zoning box rice.
医护人员顺水推舟，重新划出了5个区域，把原本复杂的1区、2区、左区、右区的名字统一成了A-E区，并选出区长，协调各区的工作。
The doctors and nurses drew up five new zones, unified the names of the complex districts 1, 2, left and right into A-E areas and elected district governors to coordinate the work of the districts.
张兵自荐成为区长，还当上了方舱医院临时党支部书记。
Zhang Bing self-recommended to become district mayor, also became the temporary party branch secretary of the cabin hospital.
由于物资紧张，区长的袖标用现成的“控烟劝导员”袖标替代。
Due to material constraints, the district governor's armband was replaced by a ready-made "smoke-control counselor" armband.
有人发现病友不吃午饭，一问，原来是回族人。
It was found that the sick friend did not eat lunch, a question, the original Hui people.
各区赶紧摸底，统计有特殊饮食需求的人。
Districts quickly map out the number of people with special dietary needs.
当天晚上起，饮食就有了清真、无糖和流食等选择。
From that night on, the diet has a choice of halal, sugar-free and liquid foods.
还有人提出，数百人一起生活，一旦发生火灾，风险很大，病友中有消防知识的便组织了消防培训和演练。
It was also suggested that hundreds of people lived together and that, in the event of a fire, there was a high risk and fire training and drills were organized by those with fire-fighting knowledge.
5天后，当地消防部门也意识到这个问题，在各方舱开展了消防培训。
Five days later, the local fire department was also aware of the problem, in the various quarters of the fire training.
一些互助通过微信群实现。
Some mutual assistance is achieved through micro-groups.
有人忘带手霜，在病友群里说了一句，几分钟后就借到了；很多人因为体育馆的灯光睡不着觉，一名区长托在外面的朋友买来眼罩。
Someone forgot his hand cream and said it in the sick group and borrowed it a few minutes later. Many people couldn't sleep because of the lights in the gymnasium, and a district mayor entrusted a friend outside to buy blindfolds.
考虑到病友仓促搬入方舱医院，工作人员提前购置了牙具、毛巾、卫生巾、袜子、拖鞋、保暖衣等物品，还准备了保温杯。
In view of the fact that the sick person had rushed to the cabin hospital, the staff had purchased dental appliances, towels, sanitary towels, socks, slippers, warm clothes and other items in advance, and had prepared a thermos cup.
但在微信群里，他们发现了盲点：指甲刀，于是赶紧申请了100个送进方舱。
But in the micromail group, they found the blind spot: nail sharpeners, so they hastened to apply for 100 into the cabin.
在那些官方照顾不到的地方，民间智慧开始发挥作用。
Where official care is not possible, popular wisdom has come into play.
武汉的冬天阴雨绵绵，遇上晴天，近800名患者的上千件衣物需要晾晒，方舱医院内细长的物品被改造为晾衣杆。
In Wuhan, where it is rainy and rainy in winter, thousands of clothes from nearly 800 patients need to be dried, and slender objects in the cabin hospital have been made into clotheslines.
为了方便看剧，人们用饭盒、水果搭成支架，省去用手举着手机、平板的辛苦。
In order to facilitate the theater, people use lunch boxes, fruit stents, to save the hand held cell phones, tablets of the laborious.
21岁的周玉婷2月9日进入方舱时，这里已经有了吹风机、微波炉。
When Zhou Yuting, 21, entered the cabin on February 9, there was already a hairdryer and microwave oven.
她很快接受了方舱里的生活，她原以为这里“就是几张床”。
She quickly accepted life in the cabin, which she thought was "just a few beds."
后来方舱又陆续配备了制氧机、CT室。
Later the cabin was equipped with oxygen making machine, CT room.
按照规定，方舱医院只接收18-65岁的轻症患者。
According to the regulations, only light patients aged between 18 and 65 are admitted to the cabin hospital.
但出于人性化考虑，也有儿童跟着家长住进来。
However, for reasons of humanity, children also live with their parents.
方舱医院还专门安排了1名儿科医生参与诊疗。
In addition, a paediatrician has been specially assigned to attend the hospital.
5天后，淋浴间也建好了，只是排队时间有点长，即使饭点也要等待半小时。
Five days later, the shower room was built, but the line was a bit long, and even the meal had to wait for half an hour.
洗澡是方舱里的女性最操心的事情之一，周玉婷没事就会转悠过去看看人多不多。
Bathing is one of the most worrying things for women in the cabin. Zhou Yu-ting will turn around and see how many people there are.
生 活方舱的一天开始于早上6点。
One day in the Living Cabin begins at 6 a. m.
叫醒周玉婷的，是医护人员递来的温度计。
Wake up Zhou Yuting, is the thermometer delivered by the medical staff.
一些老年人还要测血压。
Some elderly people also take blood pressure.
之后，周玉婷要睡回笼觉，到8点发早餐时再起床。
After that, Zhou Yu-ting to sleep in a cage, until 8 o'clock breakfast before getting up.
元宵节那天，早餐是汤圆。
On Lantern Festival, the breakfast is Tangyuan.
如果不是在方舱，她一般夜里3点睡觉，中午才会起床。
Had it not been for the cabin, she would have gone to bed at three in the night and not got up until noon.
吃完早饭，11岁的小梦和18岁的付巧开始在线上听课。
After breakfast, the 11-year-old dreamer and 18-year-old Fu Qiao began attending classes online.
付巧今年高考，患病没有影响她的信心，“大家都远程上课，我也没有吃亏。
Feiqiao this year's college entrance examination, illness did not affect her confidence, "everyone remote classes, I did not suffer.
”小梦则担心，负责录数学课的隔壁班老师讲的解法和自己班上数学老师的不一样。
"The teacher next door, who was responsible for recording the math class, worried that the solutions were different from those given by the math teacher in his class.
2月21日，武汉市洪山体育馆方舱医院内，高三学生付巧的书桌里放满了课本。
February 21, Wuhan Hongshan Stadium Square Hospital, senior three students pay the pocket of the desk full of textbooks.
她在便签纸上手写课程表，贴在隔板上。
She scribbled the lesson plan on a notepad and stuck it on the partition.
晚餐期间每人一份苹果和牛奶，邻床患者将自己那份也送给了她。
Each of them had an apple and milk for dinner, and the next-door patient gave her his share.
中青报·中青网见习记者鲁冲/摄洪山体育馆方舱医院为这两个学生降低了广播的频率和音量，周围的人也会轻声说话。
The Chinese Youth Daily, Zhongqing YMN Student Journalist Lu Chong / She Hong Shan Stadium Fang Causeway Hospital lowered the frequency and volume of the broadcasts for the two students, and the people around them spoke softly.
付巧感觉，自己在方舱里反而学习效率更高，因为总有人站在背后监督，还提醒她挺直腰背。
Fu Qiao felt that she was learning more efficiently in the cabin because there was always someone standing behind her and reminding her to stand erect.
大家把盒饭送到她手边，帮她烫中药。
They took the boxed rice to her hand and helped her iron the traditional Chinese medicine.
而在家里，父母一直对她“放养”。
At home, however, her parents kept her "free."
最近，方舱医院的医护人员把医生办公室腾出半间给付巧学习。
Recently, the staff at the Fang Cao Hospital vacated the doctor's office to pay for the study.
付巧说，她能感受到医生办公和进出时，都在尽量减小动静。
Fu Qiao said that she could feel the doctor working and going in and out, trying to minimize the noise.
有时，医生累了就在房间另一边坐下闭目养神，或是边捶腿边回消息。
Sometimes the doctor sat down on the other side of the room when he was tired, or beat his legs and replied.
2月23日，一名医护人员在防护服上写下“付巧加油，高考必胜”。
Feb. 23, a medical staff in the protective clothing written "Fu Qiao refueling, college entrance examination wins."
早饭后是医生查房、发药的时间。
After breakfast is the time for the doctor to check in and dispense medicine.
患者一般会待在自己的床位，有问题、有需求都在这时提出。
Patients will generally stay in their beds, there are problems, needs are raised at this time.
这样，下午一班医护人员进方舱的时候，就能把急需的东西带进来。
In this way, an afternoon shift of paramedics will be able to bring in much-needed items when they enter the cabin.
张兵选择在这个时间和家人联系。
Zhang Bing chose to contact his family at this time.
一名在民办学校教书的38岁教师也要按课表线上开课，但他采取了文字授课的形式，因为方舱环境嘈杂，他也不想因为自己在方舱引起学生特别的关心和关注。
A 38-year-old teacher who taught in a private school was also required to follow the course schedule, but he taught in written form because the cabin was noisy and he did not want to attract special interest and attention from his students in the cabin.
中午12点，各区区长把午饭领回。
At 12 noon, the sous-préfets brought their lunch back.
方舱内的餐标是每日120元，此外还有水果和牛奶。
The food sign in the square cabin is 120 yuan per day, plus fruit and milk.
小梦和付巧每次都多收到附近病人的那份。
Xiao dream and Fu Qiao each time receives the share of the nearby patient.
小梦觉得，在方舱比在家更开心，因为“吃喝不用愁”。
Little dream, in the cabin than at home is happier, because "eat and drink do not worry."
一名护士告诉记者，一些病患不愿意离开方舱，觉得在这里吃得好，还能出门放风。
A nurse told reporters that some patients did not want to leave the cabin, feel good eating here, but can also go outside.
有人甚至为此逃避核酸检测。
Some even evade nucleic acid testing.
2月21日，武汉市洪山体育馆方舱医院内，一名患者在吃晚饭。
February 21, Wuhan Hongshan Stadium Fang cabin hospital, a patient at dinner.
中青报·中青网见习记者鲁冲/摄周玉婷已经吃腻了方舱的饭。
Lu Chong / Regent Yuting, a trainee reporter for Zhongqing Yingbo, has had enough of the square cabins.
她从来没有过过这么健康的生活，每天作息规律，三餐荤素搭配，有水果有牛奶。
She has never lived such a healthy life, daily routine, three meat dishes with fruit and milk.
周玉婷爱吃辣。
Zhou Yuting likes spicy food.
进入方舱后，她点的第一个跑腿订单，是几包火鸡面。
After entering the cabin, her first errands order was for a few packs of turkey noodle.
吃到一半，附近的叔叔阿姨都凑过来了。
In the middle of the meal, all the uncles and aunts from the neighborhood came up.
大家都因为太久没有吃辣馋得慌。
Everyone was so scared that they didn't eat spicy food for too long.
“在这里过得太营养了，谁不想吃点垃圾食品？”在他们的委托下，周玉婷把周边商超的火鸡面买到断货。
"Living here too nutritious, who do not want to eat some junk food?" In their commission, Zhou Yuting around the business super turkey pasta bought.
因为疫情，她“躲”过了春节的家庭聚会，却不得不在方舱接受叔叔阿姨的“盘问”：论文写得怎么样？工作找了吗？谈恋爱了吗？每天下午3点和晚饭后的7点半，各区组织做健肺操和跳广场舞。
Because of the epidemic, she "hide" after the Spring Festival family gatherings, but had to be "questioned" by her uncle and aunt in the cabin: How is the paper written? Have you looked for a job? Are you in love? Every afternoon at 3 pm and 7: 30 after dinner, the district organizations do vigorous exercises and dance square dance.
到了时间，区长张兵就拿起喇叭动员大家参与。
When the time came, Zhang Bing, the district chief, picked up the trumpet to mobilize everyone.
方舱内年龄最大的是一名83岁的老婆婆，她有时也跟着跳两步。
The oldest person in the cabin was an 83-year-old woman who sometimes jumped two steps with her.
记者在方舱见到，一名在旁边泡脚的中年男子也跟着旋律踩出了水花。
The reporter sees in square cabin, a middle-aged man that bubble foot next to also trod out water spray along with melody.
2月21日，武汉市洪山体育馆方舱医院内，青海省互助县中医院高晓燕护士（右）正在带患者练习八段锦。
On February 21, Nurse Gao Xiaoyan (right) of Hongshan Gymnasium, Qinghai Province, was taking the patient to the Ba Duan brocade.
中青报·中青网见习记者鲁冲/摄张兵很想让那些沉闷的年轻人不要总是躺在床上玩手机，或是几个人聚在一起玩手机，但鲜少成功。
Lu Chong / Zhang Bing, a trainee journalist with YMCA / YMCA, is keen to get bored young people not to stay in bed and play with their cell phones all the time, or for a few people to get together and play with their cell phones, but with little success.
面对张兵的大喇叭，周玉婷一开始假装没听到，后来一到时间就出去溜达。
Facing Zhang Bing's big trumpet, Zhou Yuting pretended not to hear it at first, then went out for a stroll when the time came.
张兵觉得，这也算达到目的。
Zhang Bing thinks, this also calculate achieves the goal.
陈军很少参加这些活动。
Chen rarely takes part in these activities.
他忧心老家黄冈的父母，村子“硬核封路”，“断粮、断药怎么办？出了意外，救护车、消防车开不进去怎么办？”他也担心妻子在隔离点被传染，报喜不报忧。
He was worried about his parents in his hometown of Huanggang, the "hard core of the village blocked road," "What about the food, medicine? An accident, ambulance, fire trucks can not go in?" He also worried that his wife was infected in the quarantine point, the news did not worry.
他每天都和妻子视频，互相鼓劲。
He plays video games with his wife every day to encourage each other.
在方舱一周，他把手机通讯录从头翻到了尾。
One week in the cabin, he flipped his cellphone address book from top to bottom.
关系好的同学、朋友，他打了个遍。
The good relation schoolmate, the friend, he hits once.
在方舱里，烟是稀缺品，但陈军找人讨，对方也会大方地给。
In the square cabin, smoke is scarce, but Chen Jun asked for someone to ask, the other side will give generously.
他喜欢夜里走出方舱，看看月亮，“白天人多，这会儿安静。
He liked to go out of the cabin at night and look at the moon.
” 他有时会想到医院重症病房的病友，“不知道他们康复了没有”。
He would sometimes think of his sick fellow in the intensive care unit of the hospital, "I wonder if they have recovered."
有时，他看着月亮出神。
Sometimes he looked at the moon.
这样的夜晚本属于团聚。
This night was meant to be a reunion.
夜深了，有患者在室外射灯下和家人视频聊天。
Late at night, patients in the outdoor lighting and family video chat.
做完作业，小梦会和爷爷打电话。
When he finishes his homework, Xiao Meng will call Grandpa.
爷爷很疼小梦，小梦晚上上完补习班回家，一说饿了，爷爷就给她做饭。
Grandpa is very fond of dreams, Xiao dream at night after coming home from a cram school, said hungry, Grandpa cooked for her.
小梦很担心爷爷，“他病了好久。
Little Dream was worried about Grandpa. He was ill for a long time
打电话时他不说自己不舒服，但我听得出来，他说话没力气。
He didn't say he was feeling sick on the phone, but I could tell he had no energy to speak.
”夜里11点半，人们陆续入睡，付巧也没法儿再学习，因为附近的病友和医护都会催促她早点睡觉。
People began to fall asleep at 11: 30 in the evening, and it happened that they could not study any more, for their sick friends and medical care nearby were urging her to go to bed earlier.
在方舱，她有了几十个“家长”“班主任”。
In the cabin, she had dozens of "parents" and "headteacher."
一些患者直到出院都没睡安稳过。
Some patients did not sleep well until they were discharged from the hospital.
周玉婷觉得，跟几百人“共处一室”，很别扭，担心自己睡相不好。
Zhou Yuting felt that with hundreds of people "living together", very awkward, worried about their sleep.
张兵说，脸上蒙着眼罩和口罩，很闷，因此他会在白天给自己安排很多事情，累一点，夜里好休息。
Zhang Bing said that his face covered with blindfolds and masks, very stuffy, so he will arrange a lot of things for himself during the day, tired, good night rest.
刚进方舱时，张兵夜里老醒。
Just entered the cabin, Zhang Bing woke up at night.
体育馆的顶灯照得他有点恍惚，整个人被一种不真实感笼罩。
The ceiling of the gymnasium gave him a kind of trance, and the whole man was shrouded in unreality.
他得揉半天眼睛，看清身边有人睡着，有人玩手机、起夜，有护士走动，又觉得心头一暖，这才反应过来，自己在方舱医院，“五味杂陈”。
He had to knead his eyes for a long time to see that someone was asleep, someone playing mobile phone, rising and rising, a nurse moving around, and feeling warm, then he was in the cabin hospital, "mixed."
陈军总是等到别人都睡着了，偷偷在被子里换贴身衣物。
Chen Jun always waits until everyone else is asleep, secretly changing clothes in the quilt.
不过，他觉得这里已经够好了。
But he thinks it's good enough.
在重症病房，为了方便抢救，有病人一丝不挂，只是盖上被子，或是“穿”一件蒙住身体，从背后系上的“布”。
In the intensive care unit, in order to facilitate rescue, there are patients naked, just covered with a quilt, or "wear" a covered body, tied from the back of the "cloth."
但也有人不在乎这些，洗完衣服后，把内裤随手晾在床头。
But some people don't care about these, after washing clothes, hang your underwear on the bed.
缝 隙夜里，看着几百张病床上齐刷刷躺满患者，刘连梅心里不是滋味。
Seam gap at night, looking at hundreds of beds on the brush brush lying full of patients, Liu Lianmei heart is not taste.
“总觉得大家是遭了难，来这里避难。
'Always thought they were in trouble, and took refuge here.
”她1小时巡场一遍，见到病人的被子掉到地上，就帮忙盖好。
"She patrolled the scene for an hour, and when she saw the patient's quilt fall to the ground, she helped to cover it up.
她想到了自己睡觉不老实的儿子。
She thought of her son, who was sleeping dishonestly.
刘连梅给儿子看过自己穿防护服的照片，儿子在视频时问，“妈妈你是去打怪兽吗？”刘连梅回答，“是的，妈妈已经消灭很多敌人了。
Liu Lianmei showed her son a picture of herself wearing protective clothing. During the video, her son asked, "Are you going to shoot monsters?" Liu Lianmei replied, "Yes, mother has eliminated many of her enemies.
”她穿上“打怪兽”的厚重装备需要半小时，然后穿过昏暗的清洁区、潜在污染区、半污染区通道进入方舱。
It took her half an hour to put on the heavy gear of the Beast, and then walk through the dark clean area, the potentially polluted area, and the semi-polluted passage into the cabin.
她反复接受过培训，但看到几百名确诊患者，还是心里发怵。
She has been trained repeatedly, but she is nervous to see hundreds of confirmed patients.
医护人员都是第一次同时面对上百名病人。
For the first time, health care workers are facing hundreds of patients simultaneously.
“和每个人只交流10分钟也忙不过来。
"A mere 10 minutes of conversation with each other is hectic.
病人长时间在这里，也没啥事，和医生沟通就是基本需求。
The patient is here for a long time, nothing is wrong, and communicating with the doctor is the basic need.
病人喊你，你不沟通也不好，但是一有需求就进去，费一套防护服不说，穿就得半小时，耽误时间。
The patient calls you, you do not communicate well, but as soon as the need to go in, not to mention a suit of protective clothing, wear half an hour, waste time.
”本地医生韩光说。
"said Han Guang, a local doctor.
平常，医生很少和病人产生私交。
Normally, doctors rarely have personal relationships with patients.
这次，他们给病人留下微信、建立微信群，几十名在外面的医生也可以分担工作。
This time, they left a message to the patients, set up a micro-group, dozens of outside doctors can also share the work.
为了方便方舱内外沟通，湖北省肿瘤医院的医生胡胜把自己的手机带进方舱，不再拿出来。
To facilitate communication in and out of the cabin, Hu Sheng, a doctor at Hubei Oncology Hospital, brought his mobile phone into the cabin and stopped taking it out.
后来，他又把自家的iPad放了进去，他想让患者看医生更清楚些，减少恐惧。
Later, he put his iPad in. He wanted the patient to see a doctor more clearly and to reduce his fear.
几天后，方舱给医护人员配备了几部工作手机。
A few days later, the cabin equipped the paramedics with several mobile phones.
他们的经验后来被其他方舱管理团队学习。
Their experience was later learned by other cabin management teams.
刘连梅来自省外，她遇到的困难还包括理解武汉方言。
Liu Lianmei comes from outside the province, her difficulties also include understanding Wuhan dialect.
方舱内的病患以中老年人居多，很多只会说方言，需要会普通话的本地人帮忙翻译。
The majority of patients in the square cabin to the elderly, many only speak dialects, the need for Mandarin-speaking locals to help translate.
一次，刘连梅的同事听到有人吵架，赶紧跑过去劝架，还问一边的周玉婷，“他们怎么又吵起来了？”其实，两个中年男人是在互相问候“几码赞过早？”（什么时候吃早饭），因为武汉话听起来凶狠，她误会了。
Once, Liu Lianmei's colleagues heard someone quarrelling, rushed to persuade, and asked one side of Zhou Yuting, "How do they quarrel?" In fact, two middle-aged men are greeting each other "a few yards too soon?" (When to eat breakfast), because Wuhan sounds ferocious, she misunderstood.
方舱内偶尔发生纠纷，大多是因为病友不服管，比如不配合垃圾分类，或是往开水机里倒水。
Occasional disputes occur in the square cabin, most of the patients do not accept control, such as do not cooperate with garbage classification, or pour water into the water machine.
在洗衣服的地方，有人批评前面的人不把洗衣粉归位，两人回到方舱里还在吵，吸引了一群人看热闹。
In the laundry area, someone criticized the front for not taking the washing powder back into place, and the two men returned to the cabin still quarrelling, attracting a crowd to the scene.
这些纠纷让刘连梅感到了生活的气息，“说明把这里当家了。
These disputes let Liu Lianmei feel the breath of life, "that the home here.
”头几天，方舱气氛压抑，广播放笑话缓解气氛。
"For the first few days the atmosphere was oppressive and the broadcast amused the atmosphere.
只有一个阿姨很活泼，拉着人聊天，还和别人打趣刘连梅长得高，“你们猜那是男的女的。
Only one aunt is very lively, pulling people to chat, but also joking with others Liu Lianmei tall, "Guess it is a man and woman.
”她觉得，转折点是方舱第一次有患者出院的时候。
She felt that the turning point was the first time a patient had been discharged from the cabin.
“就像黎明前最后的黑暗，大家有了信心。
"Just like the last darkness before dawn, we have faith.
”她更怕病人有需求也不说。
She was more afraid of the sick man's need than to say anything.
“很多人感到羞耻，觉得在里面什么事情都要找我们，是麻烦我们，因此被动地等我们给，很少主动要。
"A lot of people are ashamed and feel like they need us for everything inside. It's troublesome for us to wait passively for us to give.
”张兵记得，第一次外面送卫生巾进来时，12包立刻就被分光了。
Zhang remembered that when the first sanitary napkin came in, 12 bags were spectroscopic immediately.
他意识到，这是个大问题，但大家都不好意思张口，第二天便自作主张上报了更多包的需求。
He realized it was a big problem, but everyone was too shy to say anything, and the next day he volunteered for more packages.
一个年轻人上卫生间时打湿了鞋子，犹豫了很久才找护士要拖鞋。
A young man went to the bathroom and wet his shoes. He hesitated for a long time before asking the nurse for slippers.
刘连梅记得，年轻人很认真地解释自己为什么需要拖鞋，拿到拖鞋后又解释了一遍，前后反复道歉，说麻烦护士了。
Liu remembered that the young man explained very carefully why he needed slippers, then explained them again and again, apologizing to the nurses for troubling them.
“其实他不需要说那么多。
"He doesn't really need to say that much.
我们不会评判他的需求，他也不必为此感到羞耻。
We don't judge his needs, and he doesn't have to be ashamed of that.
”刘连梅说。
"said Liu.
耻感有时来自社会。
Stigma sometimes comes from society.
曾有报道未给方蕾和小梦化名，甚至刊出了小梦未戴口罩的照片。
There have been reports of Fang Lei and Xiao dream pseudonym, or even published a small dream without a mask photo.
小梦同学的家长打电话到学校，问班主任小梦是不是得了新冠肺炎，还表示，希望开学后小梦暂缓去学校。
Xiao dream schoolmate's parents called the school, asked the head teacher if the new crown pneumonia, also expressed the hope that after the beginning of the school dream to stay in school.
老师这才知道小梦一家在方舱医院。
The teacher knew that the little dream family was in the cabin hospital.
方蕾说，在她老家黄陂的村子里，村民对她患病有议论。
Fang Lei said that in her hometown Huangpi village, villagers about her illness.
方蕾在新闻里看到，部分她以前做过生意的地方不欢迎湖北人，还有新闻说某些地方举报湖北人有奖。
Fang Lei saw in the news that some places where she had previously done business did not welcome Hubei people, and that some places reported Hubei people have awards.
2月21日，武汉市洪山体育馆方舱医院内，一名患者正在和家人视频对话。
February 21, Wuhan Hongshan Stadium Fang cabin hospital, a patient and his family video conversation.
中青报·中青网见习记者鲁冲/摄小梦对这些还不知情。
Lu Chong / Meng, a trainee reporter for the Zhongqing News Network, was unaware of this.
住进方舱医院，她告诉了6个最好的朋友。
Into the cabin hospital, she told her six best friends.
“她们都鼓励我，让我加油，说一定会好的。
"They've been encouraging me to cheer me up and say it's going to be okay.
”其中一人还告诉小梦，学校组织学生录视频到方舱医院播放，她退出了，因为她想直接到方舱来探望小梦。
One of them also told Xiao dream that the school had organized a video for the students to play in the cabin hospital and she had withdrawn because she wanted to go directly to the cabin to see the little dream.
周玉婷和付巧主动告诉同学自己在方舱医院，她们没觉得不好意思。
Zhou Yuting and Fu Qiao volunteered to tell their students in the cabin hospital, they did not feel embarrassed.
周玉婷还会每天把方舱里的伙食拍给同学看，“我吃得比她们都好”。
Zhou Yuting will also be the cabin every day in the food patted to students, "I eat better than they."
她说，同学们对方舱很感兴趣，经常发来有关方舱医院的图片和视频，问是不是真的，方舱里的设施到底好不好。
She said that the students were interested in each other's cabin, often sent pictures and video about the cabin hospital, asked if it is true, the cabin facilities after all good.
再 见如今，张兵和周玉婷已经出院。
Today, Zhang Bing and Zhou Yuting have been discharged from hospital.
陈军几次核酸检测结果在阴性和阳性间反复。
Chen Jun repeated the negative and positive nucleic acid test results several times.
如果连续两次核酸检测是阴性，且呼吸道无明显症状，他也将出院。
He will also be released from hospital if two consecutive tests for nucleic acid are negative and there are no obvious symptoms of the respiratory tract.
出院前，张兵转交了自己区长的袖章、临时党支部的工作手册和党旗，又叮嘱日常工作的注意事项。
Before being discharged from hospital, Zhang Bing handed over the armband of his district chief, the workbook of the temporary Party branch and the Party flag.
这个热心的中年人没有退大大小小的方舱医院群，看到病友需要物资，他帮忙协调。
The warm-hearted middle-aged man did not retreat to the large and small quarters of the hospital cluster, see sick friend in need of supplies, he helped coordinate.
一名医生告诉记者，最近几天，这里每天的出院人数都在50人上下，入院人数则在30人上下，开始出现“床等人”的情况。
A doctor told reporters that in recent days around 50 people have been discharged from the hospital each day, and about 30 people have been admitted to the hospital.
10年前，刘连梅到武汉旅游过。
Liu Lianmei traveled to Wuhan 10 years ago.
这次来武汉，她坐着大巴在晚高峰经过雄楚大道，一路见到最多的是急驰而过的救护车。
This time to Wuhan, she took a bus in the late peak of the road through Xiangchu Road, the most seen is the ambulance rushed by.
相比10年前，武汉多了很多摩天大楼，但看到空空如也的城市，她感到凄凉，“这座城市真的遇到了很大的麻烦。
Wuhan had many more skyscrapers than 10 years ago, but when she saw an empty city, she felt desolate.
”她在当天的日志里写道。
"she wrote in the journal of the day.
同一天到达的广西医疗队的护士说，坐着大巴，看到空荡荡的城市，很多同事都哭了。
Nurses from Guangxi's medical team who arrived the same day said many colleagues cried as they took the bus and saw the empty city.
刘连梅盼着洪山体育馆方舱医院关闭的那一天。
Liu Lianmei is looking forward to the day when Hongshan Stadium's Fang Cavern Hospital is closed.
方蕾希望这场疫情尽快过去。
Fang hoped the outbreak would soon be over.
她常年出差做服装生意，是家里的顶梁柱。
She is the backbone of her family, traveling all the year round in the clothing business.
2017年，她出车祸，全身多处骨折，只躺了一个月就继续工作。
In 2017, she had a car accident, multiple fractures all over her body and continued to work for only one month.
她读书少，讨生活艰辛，她希望小梦不再走自己的老路，给小梦报最好的培优班。
She read less, hard to live, she hoped that the little dream will not follow his old way, to the best Peiyun class.
小梦说，疫情结束以后，想参加一次闺密们的聚会。
Xiao dream said, after the epidemic ended, would like to attend a boudoir party.
因为要上培训班，她错过了此前的每一次聚会。
She missed every previous party because she had to attend a training class.
2月14日是刘连梅和丈夫的结婚纪念日。
February 14 is Liu Lianmei and her husband's wedding anniversary.
今年的情人节，相隔千里的两个人互相发了一条短信表达爱意，他们都在短信里写道，“今年很特别”。
This Valentine's Day this year, two people thousands of miles apart sent a text message of love to each other, saying, "This year is special.
2月19日至今，全国每日新增治愈病例均超过确诊病历。
From 19 February to the present, the number of new cases per day nationwide exceeded the number of confirmed cases.
武汉市的医院正在重新开设急诊、门诊，逐渐回归正轨。
Wuhan city hospital is reopening emergency, outpatient services, gradually back on track.
3月1日。
March 1.
武汉硚口武体方舱已经率先“休舱”，在合适的时候，其他方舱医院也将一个个“关门大吉”。
Wuhan Zhoukou military body of the cabin has been the first "cabin," when appropriate, other cabin hospitals will be "closed."
病患、医务人员、环卫、保安、志愿者都会恢复正常的生活。
Patients, medical staff, sanitation, security, volunteers will all return to normal lives.
陈军在方舱认识了2个以前不认识的街坊。
Chen Jun met two previously unknown neighbors in the cabin.
他少时住在老城区，整条街的同龄人都认识。
He lived in the old city when he was a boy and knew his peers all over the street.
但自打搬进公寓楼，邻里间很少来往。
But since moving into apartment buildings, neighbors have had little contact.
陈军刚去方舱医院时，不熟悉环境，附近的病人很热心，替他拿饭、拿水果，告诉他哪里打热水、哪里比较安静，病床挨着的几个人很快熟悉起来。
When Chen Jun first went to Fang Cao Hospital, he was unfamiliar with the environment. The nearby patients were very warm-hearted. They brought him some food and fruit, told him where to get hot water and where it was quieter.
一问，陈军发现有2个人和自己住得很近。
One question, Chen Jun found two people living very close to themselves.
统一接患者出方舱回家的大巴上，周玉婷也发现，同车的人有10个和自己来自同一个社区。
Unified take the patient out of the cabin on the bus home, Zhou Yuting also found that the same car and 10 people from the same community.
他们在方舱擦肩而过。
They passed each other in the cabin.
（为保护受访者隐私，方蕾和小梦为化名）（中青报·中青网见习记者鲁冲对本文亦有贡献）中国青年报·中国青年网出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
(To protect the privacy of the interviewee, Fang Lei and Xiao Meng are aliases) (Lu Chong, a trainee journalist with the China Youth Daily, also contributed to this article) China Youth Daily.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
方舱医院的800块拼图。
Eight hundred pieces of jigsaw puzzle from the cabin hospital.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "方舱医院的800块拼图";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; 800 at cabin hospital.
var msg_desc = "他们在方舱擦肩而过。
var msg _ desc = & quot; they passed by in the cabin.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
