疫情攻坚期，麻醉医生成立了一支十人“插管队”。
During the critical period of the epidemic, the anesthesiologist set up a ten-member "intubation team."
小昼。
Daylight.
极昼工作室                      。
Daylight Studio.
极昼工作室。
Daylight Studio.
为坚持严肃阅读的人群提供选项。
Offer options for people who insist on serious reading.
搜狐新闻极昼工作室。
Sohu News Polar Daylight Studio.
。
.
文|程静之编辑|胡大旗作为一名参加工作十几年的医生，42岁的林云见过许多生死。
As a doctor who has worked for more than a decade, Mr. Lin, 42, has seen many a life and death.
但这段时间以来，他动不动就感到很难受，“也许是老了。
But for some time now, he had always felt uncomfortable. "Maybe he is old.
”疫情进入攻坚阶段后，危重病人死亡病例在增加，需要急救或者介入性的机械通气。
As the epidemic enters a critical phase, the number of fatal cases is increasing, requiring first aid or interventional mechanical ventilation.
2月12日，包括林云在内的武汉协和医院十名麻醉医生组成了一支“插管队”，进入协和医院分院的重症病房，用麻醉医生的办法，帮助病人耐受手术的整个过程，为病人做气管插管，输送氧气。
On February 12, ten anaesthesiologists from Wuhan Hsiao He Hospital, including Lin Yun, formed an "intubation team" to enter the intensive care unit of the Concorde Hospital compound.
他们见过病人焦急而迫切的眼神，用手托着面罩拼命呼吸；救治过送医时心跳快要停止的病人；帮助过一位同时失去了老人和妻子的患者，度过绝望的时刻后，病人重拾生的欲望。
They have seen anxious and urgent eyes, breathed desperately with face masks in their hands, treated patients whose hearts were about to stop when they were sent to hospital, and helped a patient who had lost both an old man and his wife to survive a desperate moment.
作为一位18岁起就来武汉求学、工作的“武汉人”，林云从未见过这样的武汉：街道上空无一人，空气是冰的。
As an 18-year-old came to Wuhan to study and work, "Wuhan," Lin Yun has never seen such Wuhan: the streets empty, the air is ice.
他将这座曾经热情火辣的城市，比喻为“得了一场重病，昏昏沉沉地睡着”。
He likened the once fiery city to "a serious illness and a drowsy sleep."
而医护人员、其他百姓，“都是它身体里面的免疫分子，都在努力工作，为了修复它的免疫力。
And the medical staff, the rest of the population, "are the immune molecules in its body, working hard to restore its immunity."
”以下内容根据林云的讲述整理：1_所有人心情一下子绷起来我是一名麻醉医生，42岁。
All of a sudden I am an anesthesiologist, 42 years old. I am a very good doctor.
用我们的方法，保证你身体能够耐受手术的整个过程，血压是好的，心跳是好的，呼吸是好的，让你舒服地睡过去，安稳地醒过来。
With our method, your body can tolerate the entire process of the operation, blood pressure is good, heart rate is good, breathing is good, let you sleep comfortably past, quietly wake up.
2月12日，我们医院本部要组成一个10人的紧急插管小组。
On 12 February, our hospital headquarters was to form a 10-person emergency intubation team.
“抗疫”到了关键的攻坚阶段，危重病人死亡病例在增加，需要急救或者介入性的机械治疗，就需要气管插管。
"Anti-epidemic" has reached a critical stage of attack, critical cases of death are increasing, requiring first aid or interventional mechanical treatment, the need for trachea intubation.
麻醉医生相当于临危受命，我们科室主任亲自带队，短短20分钟，就组好了队伍。
Anesthetist equivalent to a crisis, our section director personally led the team, a short period of 20 minutes, on the formation of a team.
我很兴奋，也很担忧，不知道接下来会面对一个什么样的局面。
I was excited and worried, not knowing what the next situation would be like.
母亲嘴上不同意我去，但还是默默把行李打包好，苹果，牛奶、饼干、西洋参，包括小被子都带过来，还把我当小孩。
My mother said no to me, but quietly packed the luggage, apples, milk, biscuits, ginseng, including quilts, and I as a child.
晚上五六点钟，天气不太好，下点小雨，我从家里直接赶到一线，住进医院附近的快捷酒店。
At five or six in the evening, the weather was not so good. It rained a little and I went straight from home to the Inn Express near the hospital.
酒店条件不错，有独立空调。
Hotel conditions are good, with independent air conditioning.
一部分后勤保障，是靠社会支持。
Part of the logistical support, is dependent on social support.
我们很熟悉的一个饭店老板，90后瘦小伙，免费为酒店300号医护人员提供中餐和晚餐。
We are familiar with a hotelier, the 90-year-old skinny guy, who provides free Chinese food and dinner for the hotel's 300 paramedics.
各级政府、医院统筹安排防护设备。
Governments at all levels and hospitals shall arrange protective equipment.
基本上来讲，比上个月要好，正压头盔到了三级防护级别，比较安全。
Basically, better than last month, the positive pressure helmet to the third level of protection, more secure.
当然，据我了解，有小一点的医院防护物资还是不太充足。
Of course, as far as I know, there is still not enough hospital protection.
因为时刻都可能被感染，心理压力确实很大。
Because all the time can be infected, psychological pressure is really very high.
“参战”之前，我们预防性地用了一些抗病毒药物。
Before "going to war," we used some antiviral drugs preventively.
我们走得太急，头发是来酒店以后互相剃的。
We walked so fast that our hair was shaved off after we came to the pub.
有个同事把家里用的电动推子带过来，没想到手上活挺好，我们开玩笑，老了不当麻醉医生，还可以当理发师。
A colleague brought home the electric push, did not expect to have a good hand, we joked, old inappropriate anesthesiologist, and can be a hairdresser.
第二天，我们分成了两个小队，了解（武汉协和医院）西院的楼层结构、工作设备、患者分布。
The next day, we split into two teams to understand the (Wuhan Hsiehe Hospital) West courtyard floor structure, working equipment, patient distribution.
西院是新修的综合楼层，分了清洁区、缓冲区和感染区，一共17个病区，800多张病床，基本上都住满了。
The west courtyard is a newly constructed complex with clean areas, buffer zones and infected areas, with a total of 17 sick areas and more than 800 beds, which are almost fully occupied.
综合的ICU病房有20多张床，但是远远不够，几乎每个病区都有非常危重的病人，有的病情已经发展到终末期，（有的）患者有其他严重的并发症。
The integrated ICU ward has more than 20 beds, but it is far from enough. Almost every ward has very serious patients, some of whom have reached the end of their lives, and some have other serious complications.
“插管”小组第一天在酒店外。
The first day of the intubation group was outside the hotel.
受访者供图为了不给外界带来更多的影响，避免交叉传染，很多危重病人的周转是在晚上进行。
In order to avoid cross-infection and not to bring more influence to the outside world, the turnover of many critically ill patients takes place at night.
早上八点，主治医生查房，判断病人经过一晚上以后，病情变好还是变坏，如果需要提前插管，就会跟我们联系。
At 8 a. m., the attending physician checked in to see if the patient was getting better or worse after a night, and if he needed an early intubation, he would contact us.
有段时间，危重病人越来越多，我们10个人电话都被打爆了，平均不到一个小时，就要救治一个（病人）。
For a while, more and more people were critically ill, and all 10 of us got hit by a phone call, and within an hour on average, we had to treat one.
我们像陀螺一样在转，一天会为十几个重症病人进行紧急气管插管，或者介入性插管。
We spin like gyroscopes, performing emergency trachea intubation, or interventional intubation, for a dozen or so critically ill patients a day.
有的病人，血氧饱和度只有60、50，到了很严重的缺氧状态。
Some patients, blood oxygen saturation of only 60, 50, to a very serious state of anoxia.
他已经喘不过气，一手按着面罩，拼命地去呼吸，那种很焦虑、很急迫的眼神，你一眼就看得到，（病人）活下来的愿望是非常强烈的。
He was out of breath, breathing desperately with one hand pressed on the mask, and with that anxious, urgent look you could see that the desire to live was very strong.
也有很多突发情况，病人几个小时之内突然恶化，再加上心脏病、血栓等并发症，呼吸、心跳统统停掉，就要紧急插管，上呼吸机。
There are also many emergencies, patients within a few hours suddenly deteriorated, coupled with heart disease, thrombosis and other complications, breathing, heartbeat all stopped, emergency intubation, on the ventilator.
但对于这种危重的新冠肺炎病人，其实急救回来的可能性非常小。
But for this critically ill patient with new crown pneumonia, the likelihood of first aid returning is very low.
一般情况下，一个病人的插管工作，最多允许两个麻醉医生进行，进隔离舱前，我们要花最少一二十分钟，穿保护服，戴好医用隔离口罩、护目镜，从头到脚，裹得严严实实，不让身体的任何一部分暴露在污染的空气中。
In general, the intubation of a patient is allowed to be done by two anaesthetists at most. Before entering the isolation room, we take at least one or two minutes to wear protective clothing, a medical mask, goggles and a head-to-toe bandage so that no part of the body is exposed to the polluted air.
防护服上来以后，工作很不方便。
After the protective clothing came up, the work was very inconvenient.
呼吸难受，眼睛模糊，尿憋得难受，甚至肚子不舒服的人要穿成人纸尿裤，全身汗湿了以后，贴在身上像蒸桑拿。
Respiratory afflictive, the eye is blurry, urination is suffocating, even the person that is upset stomach wants to wear adult diaper pants, whole body perspire wet, stick on the body like steaming sauna.
出来的时候，有一种虚脱的感觉。
When I came out, I had a feeling of exhaustion.
4至6个小时之后，医生必须要出舱，一方面身体已经到了一定的极限，再一方面口罩减弱了阻挡病毒的能力，很危险。
After 4 to 6 hours, the doctor must leave the cabin, on the one hand, the body has reached a certain limit, on the other hand, mask weakened the ability to block the virus, very dangerous.
实际上，更危险的是在缓冲区脱各种设备的时候。
In fact, it is more dangerous when the buffer zone is stripped of all sorts of equipment.
在隔离病房待了很久，身上都可能沾满了病毒，我们脱掉眼罩、手套、隔离服，放在指定的地方，每做一步都要消毒，动作要迅速，又要轻柔，最好在一分钟左右，然后迅速用水冲澡。
After spending a long time in the isolation ward, we may be infected with the virus. We take off our blindfolds, gloves, protective clothing, put them in a designated place, disinfect every step, move quickly and gently, preferably in a minute or so, and then shower quickly with water.
持续、高危暴露在有病毒的空气中，是非常危险的一件事情。
Persistent, high-risk exposure to the virus in the air is very dangerous.
我们干一天，休息一天，每天会监测自己的体温情况。
We work all day, take a day off, and monitor our temperature every day.
从感染病房出来，或多或少，身上都会带有一点病毒，但如果抵抗力是正常的，休息一下，机体会把这些少量的病毒清除掉。
From the infection ward, more or less, the body will carry a bit of virus, but if the resistance is normal, rest, the body will remove these small amount of virus.
过来两天以后，我们小组有一个医生开始咳嗽，另一位医生喉咙不舒服，所有人心情一下子绷起来。
Two days later, one of our doctors started coughing, the other had a sore throat, and all of us felt tense.
主任那天晚上失眠了。
The director had insomnia that night.
她们很快做了核酸和CT检测，排除掉（这个病），过两天就好了，可能是工作很累，压力太大了。
They had a quick nucleic acid and CT test and got rid of it. After two days, it would probably be very tiring and stressful.
2_大多数病人都是这么活过来的在这（插管小组成立）之前，我在医院本部轮岗，隔几天就要去做急诊手术，也会接触到新冠肺炎病人。
2 _ Most of the patients lived this way Before this, I was on duty at the hospital headquarters, and every few days I had to have an emergency operation, and I was in contact with patients with Newcastle pneumonia.
钟南山院士到武汉来之前，我作为工作在最一线的医务人员，或多或少会有所感知。
Before Academician Zhong Nan Shan came to Wuhan, as a front-line medical staff, more or less will have some perception.
不管是手术病人也好，非手术病人也好，发热咳嗽的病人多起来了，有些很快转为重症，周围医生拉肚子、发烧的也有，我觉得有点不对，自己及时做好防护，吃一些药或者打一些针剂进行防备。
Whether surgery patients, non-surgical patients, fever and cough patients have increased, some quickly turned serious, doctors around the belly, fever also have, I feel a bit wrong, take some medicine or take some injections for protection.
我有同学和李文亮（注：武汉市中心医院眼科医生，较早向外界发出疫情预警。
I have a classmate and Li Wenliang (Note: Wuhan City Central Hospital ophthalmologist, early to the outside world issued an epidemic warning.
2月7日凌晨，因感染新冠肺炎去世）在一个单位，会接触到各种各样的信息。
February 7 in the early morning, due to infection with pneumonia) in a unit, will be exposed to a variety of information.
但作为个人，没有官方的报道，疫情没有引起大范围的流行，我也不知道自己医院以外的情况，很难去确认什么。
But as an individual, there is no official report that the epidemic is not widespread, and I don't know what's going on outside my hospital. It's hard to confirm anything.
况且年底了，医生手术量大，并没有为了这个事情去做特别沟通。
And by the end of the year, the doctor had a lot of surgery, and there was no special communication for the matter.
直到后来，医院通知我们，肺炎的风险是存在的，让大家工作时做好防护，如果有症状，要及时汇报给单位。
Until later, the hospital informed us that there was a risk of pneumonia, let everyone work well when the protection, if there are symptoms, to report to the unit.
疫情刚开始扩大的时候，医院人满为患，工作非常紧张，防护物资有限，除了发热门诊医生有保障以外，其他医生的防护都是很大的问题，医护人员暴露的风险非常大。
At the onset of the epidemic, hospitals were overcrowded, work was very tight, protective materials were limited, the protection of doctors was a major problem, and health-care workers were exposed to significant risks, in addition to the protection provided by the fever clinic doctors.
再加上这个病本身有很多的欺骗性。
Plus, the disease itself has a lot of deceptive qualities.
一个无症状的感染者，鱼刺把食管刺破了，必须来医院开刀。
An asymptomatic infected person, Stinger stabbed the esophagus, had to come to the hospital to operate.
在疾病高发的情况下，我们非常慎重，给他做了CT，（显示）肺部有炎症感染，也可能跟刺破食管有关。
Given the high incidence of the disease, we took great care to give him a CT scan, which showed an inflammatory infection in the lungs that could also be linked to a punctured esophagus.
做手术时，我们做了二级防护，第二天，他的核酸显示阳性。
When we had surgery, we had secondary protection, and the next day, his nucleic acid was positive.
不过还好，手术的三个医生、两个护士，都没有感染。
But fortunately, the operation of the three doctors, two nurses, were not infected.
春节那几天，各方面不好的信息都传过来，疫情很严峻，交通不方便，大家都很压抑。
Spring Festival in those days, all aspects of bad information came over, the epidemic is very serious, traffic is not convenient, we are very depressed.
我步行到医院20分钟，距离很短，也很长，因为大街上看不到任何一个人，空气是冰的，偶尔有一个骑自行车的人路过，也是像我这样的医护人员。
I walked 20 minutes to the hospital, a short, long walk, because no one could be seen on the street, the air was ice, and occasionally a cyclist passed by, a paramedic like me.
正月初三，协和医院外空无一人的街道。
On the third day of the first month, empty streets outside Concorde Hospital.
受访者供图最早期，我们不知道病理基础，就是摸着石头过河，认为可能和SARS很像，肺部组织纤维化，进行血氧交换的有效组织变硬，没有功能了。
At the earliest stage of the survey, we did not know the pathologic basis. We felt that it might be similar to SARS, fibrosis of lung tissue, hardening of effective tissues for blood-oxygen exchange, and no function.
治疗上也适当地用激素，但是效果都不太好。
Hormones were also used appropriately in the treatment, but the results were not very good.
也没办法找到特效药，这是治疗的难点所在。
There is also no way to find specific drugs, which is the difficulty of treatment.
医疗界对疾病的认识，都是出于医生的临床经验，根据病人身体不同的情况，进行对症保护，虽然都是心肝肺，但是换一个病情，免疫力又不一样，用的方法就不一定相同。
The understanding of the disease in the medical profession is based on the clinical experience of the doctor, according to the patient's different physical conditions, although they are cardiopulmonary, but a different disease, different immunity, the use of the method is not necessarily the same.
这段时间，医护人员了解了这个病不同时期的表现，越来越得心应手。
During this time, health care workers understand the different stages of the disease performance, more and more handy.
自然病程一般有潜伏期，3至5天发病期，很多病人会发烧、咳嗽、拉肚子。
The natural course of disease usually has latency, 3 to 5 days of onset period, many patients will have a fever, cough, diarrhea.
通过CT、试剂确诊后，如果不及时介入治疗，病情慢慢加重；7天到10天的时候，可能是炎症因子爆发的阶段，病人状态会越来越差，肺部的表现一天一个变化。
Without timely intervention after CT and reagent diagnosis, the condition slowly worsens; between 7 and 10 days, it may be the stage of an inflammatory factor outbreak, with the patient's state deteriorating and lung performance changing from day to day.
所以，（发病后）一周多到两周很关键。
So more than a week to two weeks is crucial.
如果熬过了这个点，（病情）可能就往好的方向走，如果熬不过，就往不好的方向走。
If you get through this, you may go in the right direction, but if you don't, you may end up in a bad direction.
到了拐点以后，脾肝、肾脏、肠道，所有的免疫器官都被攻击、损伤，加上有的病人本身就有中风、偏瘫等疾病，更容易多脏器受损，就要考虑用气管插管，甚至要上ECMO（注释：体外膜肺氧合，一种医疗急救技术设备），让机器替代心脏或者肺的功能。
After the inflection point, the spleen, kidneys, intestines, and all the immune organs are attacked and damaged. In addition, some patients have strokes, hemiplegia and other diseases and are more likely to have multiple organs damaged, consider using trachea cannula or even ECMO (External Membrane Pulmonary Oxygen, a medical emergency technical device) to replace the heart or lungs.
因此，预防和对症治疗就显得更加重要。
Prevention and symptomatic treatment are therefore all the more important.
我们要在早期进行有效的对症处理，把病情控制下来。
We need to do effective symptomatic management at an early stage to bring the disease under control.
当免疫力修复之后，身体里的免疫因子把病毒清除出去，就是一个恢复的过程，大多数的病人都是这么活过来的。
When immunity is restored, the immune factor in the body removes the virus, a process of recovery that most patients survive.
看了最新解剖结果的论文和媒体发布的相关消息，我们才知道病人的肺是个什么状态。
After reading the latest autopsy results of the paper and the media release the relevant information, we know what the patient's lung is like.
第一例病人的肺组织里并没有发现大量病毒包含体，意味着，不是病毒直接造成肺组织的损伤。
The first patient did not find a large number of virus-containing bodies in his lung tissue, meaning that it was not the virus that directly caused lung tissue damage.
第二例病人的肺泡，大部分也是完整的，肺泡表面隔了一层冻状物质，像一层厚厚的毯子，盖在肺泡上，导致氧气被阻隔，没办法进行（血氧）交换，身体各个器官慢慢缺氧，炎症反应很快，（病情）就恶化了。
In the second case, the alveoli, most of which were intact, were covered with a layer of frozen material, like a thick blanket, covering the alveoli, leaving oxygen blocked, unable to exchange oxygen, slow hypoxia of the body's organs, rapid inflammation and deterioration.
这种分泌物很粘稠，病人咳不出来，慢慢形成一种硬痂。
The secretion is sticky and the patient does not cough out, slowly forming a scab.
从免疫神经学的角度，（病毒）过度激活了身体的免疫反应，释放炎症因子，形成炎症风暴，才导致了不可逆的损伤。
From an immuno-neurological point of view, overactivation of the body's immune response releases inflammatory cytokines and forms an inflammatory storm that causes irreversible damage.
我们对这个病的理解越来越深刻。
Our understanding of the disease is getting deeper and deeper.
早期处理了很多急救病人以后，我们就意识到，等到病房的医生呼叫我们进行急救插管，从某种程度来讲，能够挽救过来的病人并不是太多。
After dealing with a lot of first-aid patients early on, we realized that not many patients could be saved until the doctor in the ward called us for an emergency intubation.
回访发现，头一天我们插管的病人，第二天就走了，因为病情发展到了非常晚的一个时期，自我修复的能力已经失去了。
The visit revealed that the patient we had intubated the first day had left the next day, because the condition had reached a very late stage and the ability to self-repair had been lost.
后来，我们就和的医生讨论，如果时间早一点，病人还没有走到呼吸心跳要停这一步，依据一定的指标原则，以及综合病人的临床表现，我们就和病人家属沟通，早一点介入，进行保护性的机械通气。
Later, we discussed with our doctors that if the patient had not yet reached the point where his heart would stop breathing and the patient's clinical manifestation would be stopped earlier, we would communicate with the patient's family, intervene earlier and take protective mechanical ventilation.
因为肺部缺氧，身体所有重要的器官都会损伤，时间长了，这种危险是不可逆的。
Since the lungs lack oxygen, all of the body's vital organs are damaged, and the risk is irreversible over time.
家属同意以后，我们进行麻醉，让病人安安静静睡着，不知道痛苦，然后把管子插到气管里，让肺泡能够接触到氧气，再把氧气输送到全身。
With the family's consent, we anesthetized the patient to sleep peacefully, unaware of the pain, and then inserted the tube into the trachea, allowing the alveoli to come in contact with oxygen, which was then carried throughout the body.
3_这段时间以来，动不动就会很难受，也许是老了事实证明，麻醉治疗学是有效的。
In recent years, it has been easy to suffer, and it may be that old age has proved that anesthesiotherapy is effective.
经过两周的介入治疗，一部分病人的肺已经开始好转。
After two weeks of intervention, some of the patients' lungs have begun to improve.
实际上，麻醉医生是非常高危的一个工种，为危重病人气管插管时，离病人口鼻最近，大量病毒会直接暴露在我们面前。
In fact, anesthesiologist is a very high-risk job, for critically ill patients with trachea intubation, the most recent from the nose of the infected population, a large number of viruses directly exposed to us.
病人的肺组织受损，我们的方法就是通过不痛的药，睡着的药，松弛下来的药，在病人没有痛觉的情况下，把一个气管导管放在病人的口鼻气管里，外面连上一个呼吸机，通过气管导管，把各种浓度的氧气直接送到病人的肺里，帮助病人呼吸。
The patient's lung tissue is damaged, and our method is to place a trachea tube in the patient's mouth and nose, with a ventilator attached to the patient's mouth and nose, through a tracheal tube that sends oxygen of various concentrations directly into the patient's lungs to help him breathe.
有的病人，真的就像小孩子一样，哪怕跟他说一句话，鼓励一下，他就觉得非常欣慰，高兴好几个小时。
Some patients, really like children, even with a word of encouragement to him, he felt very relieved, happy for several hours.
给他握个手，竖个大拇指，立马就不那么烦躁，护士推药的时候，就很配合。
Give him a hand, a thumb, immediately less irritable, when the nurse push medicine, it is very compatible.
麻醉医生和患者握手给予安慰。
The anesthesiologist offered comfort by shaking hands with the patient.
受访者供图推完药后，病人睡着了，没有呼吸，我们把他嘴巴打开，把喉镜放进去，查看气道的开口，把管子放在气道里，固定好，接上呼吸机，调整频率，输送氧气。
We opened his mouth, put the laryngoscope in, examined the opening of the airway, placed the tube in the airway, fixed it, connected the ventilator, adjusted the frequency, and delivered oxygen.
这半分钟到一分钟的过程，要非常迅速、熟练，凝聚了麻醉医生好多年的功力。
This half-minute to one-minute process, to be very rapid, skilled, agglomerated anesthesiologist for many years of power.
操作过程中，我们有很多要注意的地方。
During the operation, we have a lot to pay attention to.
比如，管子插到喉咙里，病人有可能会呛咳，数以亿计的病毒就会喷到脸上，我们就要用药物避免这种情况，让病人的肌肉松下来。
For example, if a tube is stuck in the throat, the patient might choke and hundreds of millions of viruses would be sprayed on his face. We would have to use drugs to avoid this and relax the patient's muscles.
如果病人肥胖，管子插不进去，也非常危急。
If the patient is fat and the tube doesn't fit in, it's critical.
我们需要用到喉罩等工具，实在不行，还可以紧急穿刺，迅速熟练地把管子插到里面去。
We need to use tools like a laryngeal mask. Not really. We can also perform an emergency piercing and insert the tube into it skillfully and quickly.
一场急救，就是一场和死神的赛跑。
First aid is a race against death.
我遇到情况最危险的一个病人，是2月13号那天，病人心跳马上要停了，我们进行紧急给氧，心肺复苏、气管插管，全是麻醉医生拿手的活，很快就把病人救过来，后来转进了ICU。
One of the most dangerous cases I encountered was February 13, when the patient's heart was about to stop. We had emergency oxygen, cardiopulmonary resuscitation, trachea intubation, all the anaesthesiologist's special job, and quickly rescued the patient and was transferred to the ICU.
还有一个中风偏瘫的失语患者，80多岁，又有高血压、糖尿病，各项指标都不太好，不立马急救，当天晚上可能就走掉。
There was also a stroke hemiplegic aphasia, in his 80s, with high blood pressure, diabetes, indicators are not very good, not immediately first aid, that night may go away.
后来病人转危为安，我们心情很舒畅。
Then the patient came back and we were in a good mood.
这个时候，又体现了麻醉医生的担当和能力。
At this time, the role and ability of the anesthesiologist.
一个小小病房里的人生百态，我们医生看到太多。
A small ward of life, we doctors see too much.
一场急救的隔壁床，病人可能刚刚走掉，家属把寿衣放在床上，其他病人还在安静地睡觉，护士会用屏风做好隔离，心里默默愿他走好。
An emergency bed next door, the patient may have just gone, the family put the shroud on the bed, other patients are still sleeping quietly, the nurse will use the screen isolation, silently wish him to go.
印象最深的一个病人，他的病情本身并不是太重，但他全家都感染了新冠病毒，老人走了，爱人也走了，所有打击一股脑儿过来，他丧失了求生的欲望，饮食、精神都会受影响。
One of the most impressed patients, his condition is not too heavy in itself, but his family has been infected with the new crown virus, the old man has gone, the lover has gone, all the blows have come, he has lost the desire to survive, the diet, the spirit will be affected.
护士给他戴面罩，他是抗拒的，想跟着家人一走了之，（病情）就越来越重。
The nurse put a mask on him. He resisted. He wanted to follow his family and it got heavier and heavier.
为了挽救他的生命，我们尽早介入治疗，让他安安静静地睡去，度过最艰难的时刻。
In order to save his life, we intervened as early as possible and let him sleep peacefully through the most difficult time.
三五天后，他肺部情况立马往好的方向走。
Three or five days later, his lungs began to turn for the better.
管子拔了以后，他可以更好地呼吸，也有了生的希望，他知道，他还有小孩，（生活）还需要继续过下去。
After the pipe was pulled out, he was able to breathe better and had hope of life. He knew that he still had children and needed to go on.
我们也非常欣慰，毕竟救了一条命。
We are also very happy, after all, saved a life.
所以有时候，医生治病可能不光要有技术，也要有人文关怀，考虑的问题是多方面多层次的。
Therefore, sometimes, doctors may not only have to have technology, but also humanistic care, the issues considered are multifaceted and multi-layered.
近两周，我们紧急插管救治的一部分病人慢慢恢复，提前拔出了气管导管，甚至越来越多的患者治愈出院了。
For nearly two weeks, some of our emergency intubation patients slowly recovered, pulled out the trachea catheter ahead of time, and more and more patients were cured and discharged.
我们也觉得蛮自豪，这是我们的价值所在。
We're proud, too. That's what we're worth.
（有人说）插管队是敢死队，对不起，我不认同。
(Someone says) Intubation is a death squad. Sorry, I don't agree.
敢死队胜利以后，回来的有几个？我们是医生，也是人。
After the death squads won, how many came back? We were doctors and human beings.
我们有小孩，有老人。
We have kids, we have old people.
把病人从最危险的情况之下拉回来，是我们的工作，但我们不是来赴死的，是来打败疾病的。
It's our job to get the patient out of the most dangerous situations, but we're not here to die, we're here to defeat the disease.
我已经四十多岁，参加工作十几年，见了太多的生生死死，但从疫情初期到现在，我已经接受了太多负面信息，这段时间以来，动不动就会很难受，也许是老了。
I have been in my forties, working for more than a decade, and I have seen too much life and death, but since the early days of the epidemic I have received too much negative information.
我非常佩服我的老师，武汉协和医院的姚尚龙教授。
I admire my teacher, professor Yao Shang Long of Wuhan Concorde Hospital.
他面对了很多大灾大难，自身就经历过肿瘤，开过刀。
He faced a lot of disasters, his own experience of the tumor, has been operated on.
他的夫人、女儿都是医护人员，这次一家三口都感染了，但都扛过来了。
His wife and daughter were paramedics, and this time the family was infected, but they carried it.
现在，全国几乎最强的医生和护士，最有力的保障都在湖北，医疗技术、医生的人文素质，都是非常强的。
Now, the country's almost the strongest doctors and nurses, the strongest protection is in Hubei, medical technology, the humanistic quality of doctors, are very strong.
我们有好的武器，好的盾牌，我们是冲锋队，队员一个都不能少。
We have good weapons, good shields, we are stormtroopers, not one of them is missing.
我十八岁到武汉读书、找工作，除了出国留学，就没有离开过这里。
I went to Wuhan when I was eighteen to study and find a job. I didn't leave here except to study abroad.
刚来武汉，本地人说话都是大嗓门，好吃，爱生活，衣食住行都标志着本土的文化，我被他们过度的火辣和热情吓到。
When I first came to Wuhan, the local people all spoke loudly, delicious, love life, food, clothing and travel to mark the local culture, I was scared by their excessive heat and enthusiasm.
武汉是一个越活越让人热爱的城市，也是一个非常包容、有活力的城市。
Wuhan is a more and more living people love the city, but also a very inclusive, dynamic city.
现在，它得了一场重病，昏昏沉沉地睡着。
Now he was very ill, and he slept soundly.
医护人员、其他百姓，都是它身体里面的免疫分子，都在努力工作，为了修复它的免疫力。
The paramedics, the rest of the population, are the immune molecules in its body, working hard to restore its immunity.
这段时间，春天来了，虽然戴着口罩，但能感觉到空气很干净，很新鲜。
This time, spring came, although wearing a mask, but can feel the air is very clean, very fresh.
天上的云是白的，阳光也恨不得五彩斑斓，照得高楼大厦玻璃窗非常明亮。
The clouds in the sky are white and the sun wants to be colorful. The windows in the tall buildings are very bright.
早上上班，我还能看到花草树木萌芽，鸟也在叫，有猫有狗在晒着太阳，给武汉带来一些生机。
At work in the morning, I can still see the buds of flowers and trees, birds are barking, cats and dogs in the sun, to bring some life to Wuhan.
（2月26日下午，林云医生在搜狐视频直播了他在一线的工作内容。
(On the afternoon of February 26, Dr. Lin Yun broadcast live his first-line work on Sohu video.
文中部分内容来自当天的直播）林云和同事们在感染病房。
Lin Yun and his colleagues were in the infection ward.
受访者供图后台回复“读者群”，加入更多讨论。
Respondents were asked to respond to "readers' groups" in the background, adding more discussion.
小昼。
Daylight.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
已喜欢，对作者说句悄悄话。
Like it, whisper to the author.
发送给作者。
Send to author.
最多40字，当前共字。
Up to 40 words, currently in common.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情攻坚期，麻醉医生成立了一支十人“插管队”。
During the critical period of the epidemic, the anesthesiologist set up a ten-member "intubation team."
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "极昼工作室";。
Var nickname = & quot; daytime studio & quot;;
var msg_title = "疫情攻坚期，麻醉医生成立了一支十人“插管队”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; a ten-man "intubation team";
var msg_desc = "在隔离病房待了很久，身上都可能沾满了病毒。
var msg _ desc = & quot; spent a long time in the isolation ward, probably covered with virus.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="极昼工作室";。
var title = & quot; day studio & quot;;
