疫情中的电影院：错过了春节和情人节，不想再失去五一。
Cinema in the midst of an epidemic: miss Spring Festival and Valentine's Day, do not want to lose the May Day.
小昼。
Daylight.
极昼工作室                      。
Daylight Studio.
极昼工作室。
Daylight Studio.
为坚持严肃阅读的人群提供选项。
Offer options for people who insist on serious reading.
搜狐新闻极昼工作室。
Sohu News Polar Daylight Studio.
。
.
摘要：在本次新冠肺炎的疫情中，各行各业都受到程度不一的影响。
ABSTRACT: In this outbreak of new crown pneumonia, all walks of life have been affected to varying degrees.
其中，电影院无疑遭受了重创——全国各个城市，所有的影院都收到了相关通知，全部停业等待。
Cinemas, of course, have been hard hit - all have been notified and have been put out of business in cities across the country.
有些影院选择自救，让工作人员做起微商，线上售卖库存，并开启预售模式；另一些选择抱团取暖，通过协会发声，呼吁商场能够减免影院租金。
Some cinemas have chosen to help themselves, allowing staff to set up small businesses, sell their inventory online and open a pre-sale model. Others have opted to stay warm through the Association and appeal to the shopping malls for rent relief.
文 |殷盛琳编辑 |王珊2020春节档的影片竞赛被一场突如其来的疫情彻底截停。
Ren Shenglin's film competition at Ren Cheng Lin's 2020 Spring Festival gear has been completely cut short by a sudden epidemic.
先是多部影片宣布撤档，之后，全国影院都收到了相关通知，全部停业等待。
First a number of films announced the withdrawal of files, after which cinemas across the country have received the relevant notice, all suspended waiting.
对于从业者来说，春节档本是影院全年的营收重头。
For practitioners, the Spring Festival archive is the cinema's annual revenue.
处在行业的末端，他们目前唯一能做的事情就是等待：等允许开业的通知，等电影重新定档，等影迷消除对人群的恐慌。
At the end of the industry, the only thing they can do right now is wait: wait for a notice to open up, wait for the film to be re-archived, wait for fans to put an end to panic.
在此关口，大年初一，本应在院线首映的《囧妈》以6.3亿元的价格卖给了字节跳动，在网上免费播放，打破了原本稳固的“制作-发行-放映”模式，动了全国本就面临经营压力的一万多家影院的蛋糕。
The movie, which was supposed to premiere on the first day of the new year, sold to bytes for 630m yuan, breaking the firm "make-distribute-show" model and sparking more than 10,000 theaters across the country that were already under operational pressure.
很多从业者相信这只是一则疫情下的个例，不会成为一种趋势，影院仍有不可替代的价值。
Many practitioners believe that this is only a case of an epidemic, not a trend, cinemas still have irreplaceable value.
但这次长达两个月甚至更久的停摆，的确将引发行业新一轮的洗牌。
But the two-month-long pause, if not longer, will surely trigger a new reshuffle in the industry.
随着春节档一同消失的还有情人节档，有从业者推测，因为开学推迟，今年的暑期档可能也会非常惨淡，这些意味着影院全年近一半的收入受到损失。
Valentine's Day will also disappear along with the Spring Festival holiday, with practitioners speculating that late starts could mean a dismal summer break for theaters, meaning nearly half of their revenues will be lost throughout the year.
有些影院选择自救，另一些选择抱团取暖。
Some cinemas choose to save themselves, others choose to stay warm.
焦虑等待中，大家也有了喘息的缝隙，开始思考影院的价值与可能性。
Anxiety waiting, we also have a breathing space, began to think about the cinema's value and possibilities.
2月23日，中国电影发行放映协会发布“关于电影院复工准备工作的建议”。
On February 23, the China Film Distribution and Screening Association issued "Recommendations on the Preparation of Cinemas for Restarting Work."
2月26日，北京市电影局联合北京疾病预防控制中心做出进一步明确要求：在复映初期一定时间内（由市电影局视情况明确具体时间），按隔排隔座售票，售票处实行观众信息登记制，洗手间等场所应配备洗手液或消毒用品，公共区域每天消毒不少于8次，每个影厅每部影片放映结束后须彻底消毒一次，并进行通风。
On February 26, the Beijing Film Bureau, in conjunction with the Beijing Center for Disease Control and Prevention, further specified that tickets should be sold in alternate stalls within a certain period of time (to be specified by the Municipal Film Bureau as the case may be).
截止目前，全国一万多家电影院依然在等待复映的消息。
So far, more than 10, 000 cinemas across the country are still waiting to be shown.
以下是三位影院工作人员的口述：两个求婚包场取消了「上海DFC电影院市场部 胡晓飞」我们是在除夕的前一天接到了上海电影局发的通知，要求市内所有电影院暂停营业。
The following is the oral testimony of three cinema workers: Two proposal shows canceled "Shanghai DFC Cinema Marketing Department Hu Xiaofei" We received a notice from the Shanghai Film Bureau the day before New Year's Eve asking all cinemas in the city to suspend business.
这之前我们一直以为疫情没那么严重，影院也没有受到什么限制。
Until then, we thought the epidemic was not so serious, and theaters were not restricted.
春节档的影片我们提前一周就开始预售了，我记得大年初一那天上映的片子，我们单个影院就有10万的预售票房。
We started to sell the Spring Festival movies a week in advance. I remember the movie that opened on New Year's Day.
如果不是出现这种情况的话，大年初一之后的几天应该是会爆满的。
If this is not the case, the New Year's Day after a few days should be full.
我们店在龙阳广场，算是中等大小，一共6个影厅。
Our shop in Longyang Square, is a medium-sized, a total of 6 Shadows.
春节档是一年里生意最好，营收最多的时候，往年一天的票房至少20万。
Spring Festival is the best business in a year, the most revenue of the time, usually a day at least 200,000 box office.
没记错的话，去年全国电影票房收入600多亿，春节档的票房能占到整年营收的四分之一。
With more than $60 billion in box office revenue last year, Spring Festival will account for a quarter of all year-round revenue.
现在这些全没了。
It's all gone now.
不止是春节档，连着2月份的情人节档也泡汤了。
It's not just Spring Festival, but Valentine's Day in February.
停业前我接到过两个要包场求婚的订单，跟我们这边商量好了，要保持神秘感，场内不能布置显眼的装饰，等电影播放完之后，由我们的工作人员出场，拿着花啊什么的给人家烘托气氛，现在疫情出来，客户原计划的求婚也取消了。
Before the shutdown, I received two orders to propose marriage. We agreed to keep the mystery secret. After the film was shown, our staff came out with flowers and things. Now the outbreak has come out and the proposal of the client has been canceled.
《囧妈》改线上首映这事儿很折腾，之前还调了档。
The premiere of "Jomma" was a bit of a toss-up, and it had to be shifted before.
本来春节档都是大年初一开始的嘛，按照行业的规矩，年三十这天是电影院工作人员全年唯一休息的一天。
Spring Festival is the beginning of the Spring Festival, according to the industry rules, the thirty-first day of the cinema is the only rest day of the year.
一般影院不开门或者只营业到中午，员工们早一点回家，吃顿团年饭。
Generally, cinemas are closed or open only until noon. The employees come home early and have a reunion dinner.
结果《囧妈》改档期到大年三十，我们只能提前改排班表，取消了一些员工的假期。
As a result, we had to change the schedule ahead of time and cancel some of the employees' holidays.
预售都到一半了，他们突然又宣布改线上播，我们就开始退票，需要人工一张一张地退，特别耗费精力。
Halfway to the sale, they suddenly announced a change in the broadcast, we began to refund tickets, need to be returned one by one, particularly energy-consuming.
之前撤档的电影什么时候上映我们也没有消息，只能等复工，估计上海这边还得等一段时间，电影院是公共场所，怕交叉感染。
We also have no information on when the previously withdrawn films will be released. We will have to wait a while to get back to work.
复工之后，电影院开业，片方才确定电影的档期，这个时间是他们做主的。
After the resumption of work, the cinema opened, the film just decided on the film slot, this time they make the decision.
电影的发行和排片是个复杂的系统。
Film distribution and film layout is a complex system.
一般电影的上映日期会安排在周五，我们就会在上映前的几天开个小的预售，比如周三就开售一部分，如果票卖得好的话，我们可能尽量在周末重点排这个片子。
The release date for a regular movie is set for Friday, and we'll have a small sale a few days before the show, like part of it on Wednesday, and if it sells well, we'll probably try to highlight it over the weekend.
之后再根据客流量、上座率来回改排片量，每天都要改。
Then according to the passenger flow, seat rate to and fro rearrange the amount of film, every day to change.
总体上，尽量会把受欢迎的片子排在周末。
In general, try to schedule popular movies for the weekend.
我们影院是加盟的中影，片源从他们那里过来，排片是我们影院自己来决定。
Our cinema is joining the film, the film source from them come over, the layout is our cinema to decide.
其他公司制作的影片一般会找到发行公司，由他们来跟影院对接。
Films made by other companies usually find a distribution company that docks with the theater.
他们有时候会办新片首映礼，邀请院线和电影院的人去看，提前做宣发。
Sometimes they do a premiere of a new film, invite the people from the cinema and the cinema to see it, and do it in advance.
猫眼、淘票票这样的第三方平台也会承担一些发行业务，比如有时候你能在这些平台上看到有电影票卖到9块9，其实就是发行公司带头，把宣传活动的业务给了第三方。
Third-party platforms like Cat Eye and Taobao can also take on some distribution business. Sometimes you can see movie tickets sold for $9. 9 on these platforms, but the issuing company takes the lead and gives the advertising business to a third party.
这里面的差价由发行公司补上。
The difference is made up by the issuing company.
另外片方为了让电影卖得更好，还会组织点映和电影院路演，会通知我们来承接，赠给我们一些海报之类的衍生品，对电影院来说是双赢的。
In order to make the film sell better, the film will organize spot screenings and cinema roadshows, will inform us to undertake, give us some posters and other derivatives, it is a win-win situation for cinemas.
总票房是片方和电影院分账，差不多是一半一半。
The total box office is divided between the movie side and the cinema, almost half.
但电影院的营收里，除了票房还有零食饮料这些销售额。
But the theater's revenue, in addition to the box office and snacks and drinks these sales.
我觉得《囧妈》改线上播放应该是受疫情影响的个例，其实说实话，如果是一个好的电影，我觉得还是去影院看的效果最好。
I think the redirection of "Jommy" should be a case in point, but to be honest, if it's a good movie, I think going to the theater is the best.
包括音响，大屏幕，视听效果，还有那种感受，是在线上没法实现的。
Including audio, large screen, audio-visual effects, and that kind of feeling, is not available online.
这个潮水我不知道会流向哪里，这次疫情对电影行业有那么大的冲击，像中影这样的大集团，既参与制作又参与发行，还有自己的院线，应该会更有优势一些，我们现在的工资也是照常发放的。
I don't know where the tide is going, the epidemic has had such a big impact on the film industry that big groups like ZhongYing, which are involved in production and distribution as well as their own lines, should be better off and our salaries are paid as usual.
这只是我个人的想法，很多东西我也管不到，我只是做影院里面的市场，但我对电影院还是有信心的。
It's just my personal opinion, a lot of things I can't control, I just do the theater inside the market, but I still have confidence in the cinema.
1月23日，上海一家影院在醒目位置竖起“已消毒”标牌。
A "sterilized" sign was erected in a prominent place in a Shanghai cinema on January 23.
图片来自中新网在朋友圈卖爆米花「河南洛阳老城电影院老板 林妍」我们是个体影院，2018年2月份才开业，今年算第二个年头，正好赶上疫情这事，对我们打击真的很大。
"Lin Yan, owner of Luoyang Old Town Cinema, Henan Province." We are individual cinemas, which opened in February 2018, for the second year, just in time to catch up with the epidemic.
但我们应该不是最惨的那一类，因为我们员工少一些，除我之外大概有20个，人工成本少一点。
But we shouldn't be in the worst category, because we have fewer staff, about 20 in addition to me, and less labor costs.
另外，房子是我们自己的，虽然每个月还在还房子的贷款，但相比那些纯租房的个体影院好一点。
In addition, the house is our own, although the monthly loan is still paying for the house, but it is better than those pure rental individual theaters.
我们1月23号接到的停业通知，24号关的门。
We received our shutdown notice on January 23rd, the door to level 24.
但春节档那7部影片撤档要在停业之前，我记得他们是在23号陆续发出的撤档消息。
But before they shut down, I remember they were dropping files on the 23rd.
虽然我们影院开业时间不长，但我非常明白春节档对于影院的意义。
Although the opening time of our cinema is not long, but I know very well the significance of Spring Festival archives for cinemas.
最先看到《熊出没》片方撤档的消息我非常惊讶，我有一些朋友也是从事影院行业的，我们就在微信上讨论，今年到底怎么回事？会不会波及其他电影？结果就接二连三的，基本上就在四五个小时之内，《急先锋》《囧妈》《中国女排》《唐探3》全部撤档了。
I was surprised to see Bear Stealth first. I had some friends in the movie business, and we discussed it on the microphone. What happened this year? Will it spill over to other movies? The result was a barrage of "Pioneer," "Damn Me" and "Chinese Women's Volleyball" and "Tangshan 3."
我们都没有遇到过这种情况，不知道该怎么办了，当时还在想，那大年初一放什么电影，会不会还放《叶问》和《误杀》？虽然这俩片子挺好，但已经放了一个多月，大家已经对这两部电影疲倦了。
We didn't have this kind of situation, we didn't know what to do, we were wondering, what movie was on the first day of the new year, whether there would be "Ye ask" and "kill by mistake"? Although the films were good, they had been running out for more than a month and everyone was tired of them.
当时从来没想过会停业，只是觉得可能这个春节档会很冷清，我当时为了撑到过年期间还叫了非常多小时工，就是一些放寒假回来的学生，看到撤档消息后，我想着没那么多电影可放，就赶紧通知他们先不用来上班。
At that time, I never thought of going out of business, but I thought maybe the Spring Festival holiday would be very lonely. I called a lot of hourly workers to survive the Spring Festival.
那天我们下班还稍微早了点，结果晚上就接到相关部门的电话，给我打了好几个电话，说影院属于人员密集场所，赶紧先停业。
We got off work a little early that night, so we got a call from the relevant department and made several phone calls to me, saying that the cinema was a densely populated area, so shut down immediately.
我那时候才感觉这个病毒的情况很严重，之前没觉得，我只是在网上刷消息，还想着要不要让员工在过年期间戴口罩。
I felt the virus was very serious at the time. I didn't think I was just doing it online, and I was wondering if I wanted my staff to wear masks during the Lunar New Year.
这个病我了解不多，但我知道是传染病，所以我在停业前好几天就先给我们前台和两个检票台上放了一些免洗的洗手液，让顾客进场的时候挤一些，搓一搓，还让保洁阿姨每天消毒一次。
I didn't know much about the disease, but I knew it was an infectious disease, so I put some scrub-free hand sanitizers on our front desk and two ticket counters several days before the shutdown.
结果那些洗手液还没用完，我们就关门了。
The hand sanitizer didn't run out, so we closed the door.
为了给春节档做准备，我们之前进了很多零食饮料的库存。
In order to prepare for the Spring Festival holiday, we advance the stock of snacks and drinks.
供应商给退换了一些，剩下的爆米花啊薯条啊是退不了的。
The supplier gave me a refund for the rest of the popcorn and fries.
为了减少损失，我带头领着咱们员工每天都要发朋友圈，做起来微商了。
In order to reduce losses, I lead our staff to send out a circle of friends every day, to do micro-business.
尽量选择同城卖货，配送的话都是我们自己的员工，有时候是我去。
Try to choose with the city to sell goods, distribution words are our own staff, sometimes I go.
能卖一些是一些，这个也算是我们的一种自救方式。
To sell some is some, and this is one of our ways to save ourselves.
我们城市其他个体影院也差不多是这个方式，大家都想尽量减少损失，像一些连锁影院，我觉得他们退换库存应该会更方便一些。
Other individual cinemas in our city do the same thing, and everyone wants to minimize losses. Like some chain cinemas, I think it would be easier for them to replace their stock.
我们个体影院的话，没有什么投资，会有资金链的问题。
If we individual cinema, there is no investment, there will be a chain of funds.
现在我们账上的资金撑过2月份还可以，如果说3月份我们再没有现金流的话，可能就很难了。
We have enough money on our books for February, and if we don't have any cash flow in March, it might be hard.
而且就算3月份营业，我们也没什么片子可放，之前的片子秘钥到期了，新片又不上映。
And even if it's open in March, we don't have a movie to play. The secret key has expired and the new film is not on.
我们在做一个挽回现金流的测试，就是预售一些99元大礼包，这里面包括一些零食和电影票，现在可能用不到，但电影票有效期是在我们开业之后2个月内。
We're doing a cash-flow redemption test, a $99 package that includes some snacks and movie tickets that may not be available now, but the tickets are valid for up to two months after we opened.
我想，等到之后他们想来看电影的时候，可能会第一时间想到我们影院。
I think when they want to see a movie after that, they might think of us first.
现在洛阳有一些饭店开业了，我们就给他们打电话联系做一些市场活动，商家联盟，把我们的一些优惠券给他们，让他们免费发给顾客，帮我们引流一些客户。
Now that some of the hotels in Luoyang are open, we'll call them and do some marketing activities. Businessmen's leagues will give them some of our coupons for free distribution to customers and help us channel some of our customers.
洛阳街道上，人还是很少，大家还在家里隔离观望，我们也没有接到开业通知。
Luoyang street, people are still very few, people are still watching in isolation at home, we have not received the opening notice.
现在只能等，等疫情过去，等一个机会。
Now we have to wait, wait for the epidemic to pass, for a chance.
赌一把，看五一假期的时候情况怎么样，希望是电影的一个爆发期。
Gamble, to see the May Day holiday when the situation, I hope it is a period of film explosion.
我不想因为这件事裁员，我们这儿跟你们北京不一样，这些员工都是本地人，大家在我们这儿工作了都有一两年时间了，从开业开始就来了，大家之间也都有感情，你让他们再去找其他工作，我想也会很难。
I don't want to lay off people because of this. We're different from you in Beijing. These people are local people. They've been working here for a year or two.
《囧妈》改线上播放对行业肯定是有影响的，如果说每部电影都改线上了，那我们完全可以被替代了，基本上电影院就没有什么存在的价值了。
If every movie has been rerouted, we can be replaced. Basically, cinemas don't have any value.
但是我还是觉得，去影院和在家里电视上看电影的效果是完全不同的。
But I still think going to the movies and watching them on TV at home is totally different.
但是这个也是有前提的，就是你拍的片子能配得上大家的电影票。
But this also has the premise, is you make the film can match everybody's movie ticket.
这个需要我们整个产业链一起去努力，包括拍摄者，电影的片方，还有我们影院，算是处在这个链条的最末端，要做好电影的视听效果。
This needs our entire industry chain to work together, including the filmmaker, the film's side, and our cinema, is at the end of the chain, to do a good job in the audiovisual effects of the film.
需要我们共同努力，才能把这个行业撑起来。
We need to work together to keep this business afloat.
青岛苏宁影城发布的零食大礼包 图片来源网络有人问我们什么时候开门，特别想看《唐探3》「苏州耳东影城市场部 衡雪琴」苏州这几天都没有新增病例，情况一直在好转，一些饭店也陆续开业，但政府还没有通知我们复工的时间，估计我们会是最后一批。
/ [^ # 39 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 116] / n. Suzhou has not had any new cases in recent days. The situation has been improving and some restaurants are opening, but the government has not informed us when to resume work.
大家在一个封闭性的地方看电影还是挺危险的，影院的确比较特殊。
It's dangerous to watch a movie in a closed area. Cinemas are really special.
腊月二十七八号的时候，我们还贴了一些海报出去，告诉大家我们春节会正常营业，包括大年三十我们还排了片子，结果就在当天，我们接到通知说停业，一直停到现在。
On July 28th, we put up some posters to show that we would be open for business during the Spring Festival, including the Chinese New Year's Eve.
在那之前我们也做了消毒措施，只是没想到疫情情况那么严重。
Before that, we also did disinfection measures, but did not expect the situation to be so serious.
年前那几天的客流量本来也不怎么好。
Passenger traffic in those days wasn't so good either.
春节档的片子预售卖了五六万的样子，接到停业通知后，我们得全部退票，那天工作人员一整天的工作就是退票，忙得要死。
After receiving the notice of closure, we all had to refund the tickets. The whole day's work of the staff was a dead-end ticket refund.
好在后来像第三方平台，猫眼，淘票票这些，他们系统处理退票，我们就稍微轻松一点。
Luckily, like third-party platforms, cat-eyes, and ticket-panning tickets, they systematically processed refund tickets, and we were a little more relaxed.
停业后我们开始想办法处理我们的库存，因为不知道什么时候能开门，食品是有保质期的。
After the shutdown we began to try to dispose of our stock because we did not know when the door would open and the food had a shelf life.
从2月15号开始到现在，我们卖了一周多，大部分是薯条和一些瓶装饮料。
We've been on sale for more than a week since February 15, mostly fries and some bottled drinks.
我们把消息发到影迷群里，尽量卖给附近的人，让他们自己过来拿一下，我们每天都有值班人员，整理好货给他们到楼下送一下就可以。
We send the news to the fans, sell it to the people around us, and let them get it by themselves. We have people on duty every day, just pack their stuff and send it downstairs.
这几十箱的库存都是给春节档准备的，还有一个原因是，过年供应商也会放假，我们会多囤一点货，谁知道今年的过年是这么过来的？像以前，春节期间是我们最忙的时候，尤其是像永旺这种商场，周末啊，春节，国庆这种节日，都是我们生意比较好的时候，我们也是主要在这个时候能多挣一点，今年就泡汤了。
In the past, the Spring Festival is the busiest time for us, especially the shopping malls like Yongwang, the weekend, Spring Festival and National Day, which is the best time for us to make more money.
我毕业刚两年，没有房贷车贷要还，支出大头就是租房的房租而已，所以还好，那些有贷款要还的同事会很难。
I graduated just two years ago, no mortgage loans to pay, the majority of the expenditure is just rent, so fortunately, those who have loans to pay colleagues will be difficult.
我们2月份不上班，只发最低工资，每天有一个人去影院值班，检查一下安全问题，看看情况。
We don't go to work in February. We only get the minimum wage. One person goes to the cinema every day to check on safety issues and see what happens.
我们集团旗下有9家影院，我们影院就有30个左右的员工，不知道他们有多大的实力能一直供着，作为员工来讲，也会有一点怕自己失业。
Our group has nine cinemas, and our theaters have about 30 employees who don't know how strong they are to stay and who, as employees, are a little afraid of losing their jobs.
你看现在这个样子，其实也不知道影院到底能撑多久，心里没有底。
You see this, in fact, do not know how long the cinema can last, there is no bottom in mind.
每天都在想，到底什么时候能开业？而且就算开业，也是赔本生意。
Every day I wonder when I can start my business, and even if I do, I lose money.
大家恢复对影院的态度，至少也要五六月份了，经历了疫情，今年估计学校的暑期也没有了，那我们暑期档也会很惨淡。
It will take at least May and June to restore our attitude to cinemas, experience an epidemic, and this year's summer vacation is not expected, so will our summer vacation.
这样一算大半年就过去了，整个2020年的收益都会很受影响。
Such a calculation on the majority of the year has passed, the entire 2020 will be very affected earnings.
好在，我们电影院那边的商场决定减免我们一半的租金，真是太及时了。
Luckily, the mall over there decided to reduce our rent by half. It was just in time.
我觉得影院永远不会被视频网站取代，那种享受电影的感觉不可替代，而且影院还有社交的功能，像我们这里，每周末都有一家人来观影的，还有大量的情侣。
I don't think cinemas are ever going to be replaced by video sites, there's no substitute for movies, and theaters have social functions, like we have a family here every weekend and a lot of couples.
就前两天，我们有个粉丝来加我微信，问我们影院什么时候开门，她特别想看《唐探3》。
Just two days ago, one of our fans came to me and asked us when the cinema would open. She wanted to see "Detective Tang 3."
（文中衡雪琴，林妍为化名。
(In the text Hengxueqin, Lin Yan for alias.
）后台回复"读者群",加入更多讨论。
Back-office reply & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; join in more discussion.
小昼。
Daylight.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
已喜欢，对作者说句悄悄话。
Like it, whisper to the author.
发送给作者。
Send to author.
最多40字，当前共字。
Up to 40 words, currently in common.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情中的电影院：错过了春节和情人节，不想再失去五一。
Cinema in the midst of an epidemic: miss Spring Festival and Valentine's Day, do not want to lose the May Day.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "极昼工作室";。
Var nickname = & quot; daytime studio & quot;;
var msg_title = "疫情中的电影院：错过了春节和情人节，不想再失去五一";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; &
var msg_desc = "每天都在想，到底什么时候能开业？";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; when exactly?
var title ="极昼工作室";。
var title = & quot; day studio & quot;;
