武汉新冠患者出院后死亡，香港检出宠物狗感染新冠，以及其他 24 条新闻。
Wuhan Xinguan patients died after discharge from hospital, Hong Kong detected a new canine infection crown, and 24 other news items.
临时报道小组。
Interim coverage team.
所有的鱼                      。
All the fish.
所有的鱼。
All the fish.
地球被毁灭之前究竟发生了什么？。
What happened before the earth was destroyed?
所有的鱼现在同步在 allthefishnews.wordpress.com 更新并可通过邮件订阅。
All fish are now synchronized at allthefishnews. wordpress.com and can be subscribed to by mail.
你可以复制上方链接浏览器打开获取订阅链接。
You can copy the above link browser to open for a subscription link.
根据丁香医生实时数据，截至 3 月 5 日 17:52 时，全国现存确诊病例 25275 例，累计确诊病例 80568 例，现存疑似病例 522 例。
According to the real-time data of Dr. Lilac, as of 17: 52 on March 5, there were 25,275 confirmed cases nationwide, 80,568 confirmed cases and 522 existing suspected cases.
其中，重症病例 5952 例，死亡病例 3016 例，累计治愈病例 52277 例。
Among them, 5952 severe cases, 3016 deaths and 52,277 cumulative cases were cured.
根据世界卫生组织，截至 3 月 4 日，除中国以外，全球确诊病例为 12668 例，死亡 214 例。
As of March 4, there were 12,668 confirmed cases and 214 deaths worldwide, according to the World Health Organization.
除中国外，目前全球有 76 个国家出现了新冠肺炎确诊病人。
In addition to China, 76 countries have now been diagnosed with pneumonia in the new crown.
疫情发展武汉——新冠患者出院后死亡。
Epidemic Development Wuhan - New Guan patient died after discharge from hospital.
据财新网报道，患者李亮 36 岁，是骨科康复诊所中医医生（没有医生执照），症状较轻。
Li Liang, a 36-year-old Chinese medicine practitioner at an orthopaedic rehabilitation clinic without a doctor's license, has mild symptoms, Caixin reported.
在 2 月 3 日出现发烧症状， 2 月 8 日被送入社区隔离点，2 月 9 日晚检测为新冠核酸阳性，2 月 12 日转入汉阳国博方舱医院，进行纯中药治疗，退烧，且咳嗽症状缓解。
Fever developed on 3 February, was taken to a community isolation site on 8 February, tested positive for Nucleic Acid (Nucleic Acid) on the evening of 9 February and transferred to Hanyang Guobao Fang Hospital on 12 February for pure Chinese medicine treatment, fever reduction and cough relief.
2 月 20 日和 2 月 23 日，李亮在方舱医院进行了两次核酸检测，都呈阴性，无吸氧指末氧饱和度大于 95%，在 2 月 26 日“经专家组评估准予出院”，进入社区隔离点隔离 14 天，之后在继续喝中药。
On 20 February and 23 February, Li Liang underwent two nucleic acid tests at the Fang Cao Hospital, both negative and with no oxygen-absorbing end-oxygen saturation greater than 95 per cent. On 26 February, he was admitted to a community isolation site for 14 days and continued to drink traditional Chinese medicine.
2 月 28 日起，李亮觉得嘴巴发干，妻子回忆“医生告诉丈夫，口干是因为吃中药，叫他多喝水，于是李亮买了很多水，还买了水果在房间里吃。
Since February 28, Li Liang felt dry mouth, the wife recalled that "the doctor told her husband that the dry mouth is due to take Chinese medicine, told him to drink more water, so Li Liang bought a lot of water, but also bought fruit to eat in the room.
”3 月 2 日上午，李亮妻子与李亮视频通话时称“体温只有 35.3 度”，脉搏微弱，躺在床上没有力气。
On the morning of March 2, Li Liang's wife, speaking to Li Liang on video, said "the temperature is only 35.3 degrees.
下午 3 时 30 分，隔离点打电话称李亮“压力大，精神不好”，5 时 08 分李亮在隔离酒店死亡。
At 3: 30 p. m., Li Liang was called "stressed and mentally ill," and at 5: 08 p.m. Li Liang died in the quarantine hotel.
《死亡医学证明书》记载死亡的三个原因是：新冠肺炎、呼吸道阻塞猝死、呼吸循环衰竭。
The Medical Certificate of Death documents three causes of death: Newly Coronary Pneumonia, Sudden Respiratory Obstruction, and Respiratory Failure.
对于他是否不符合出院标准就被放出方舱，还是属于复阳目前没有定论。
Whether he did not meet the discharge criteria to be released from the cabin, or belong to Fuyang is not conclusive.
武汉多家方舱医院已停止病人出院。
Wuhan multi-cabin hospitals have stopped patients out of hospital.
韩国——确诊累积破 6 千，政府拟禁止口罩出口。
ROK - The government intends to ban the export of masks after a cumulative total of 6,000 cases have been confirmed.
据韩联社报道，截止 3 月 5 日 16 时，韩国累计确诊 6088 例，死亡 41 例，较 5 日 0 时新增 322 例，有 96 个国家和地区对韩国采取入境限制。
As of 16: 00 on March 5, a total of 6,088 cases and 41 deaths had been diagnosed in South Korea, 322 more than at 0000 hours on March 5.
韩国政府计划提高口罩产量，限制口罩出口，限制民众每周购买 2 个等方式来缓解口罩需求，计划扩大药房、邮局和农协超市等公共渠道销售的口罩量，从原本的 50% 的市场占有提高至 80%。
The government plans to ease demand for face masks by increasing production, restricting the export of face masks and limiting their purchase to two a week. It plans to expand the number of masks sold in public outlets, such as pharmacies, post offices, and farmers' associations' supermarkets, from 50% to 80%.
此前台湾有类似的措施。
Taiwan had similar measures before.
香港出现全球首宗宠物狗感染新冠案例 可能由人类传染。
The world's first case of pet dog infection in Hong Kong could be transmitted to humans.
3 月 4 日晚间，香港渔农自然护理署公布，一只新冠肺炎患者的宠物狗，其样本在多次新冠病毒检测中均呈弱阳性反应。
On the evening of March 4, the Agriculture, Fisheries and Conservation Department of Hong Kong announced that a pet dog of a newly-crowned pneumonia patient had a weak positive response to multiple new crown virus tests.
但该宠物狗现无任何新冠相关病症。
But the dog does not have any new crown-related problems.
渔护署于 2 月 26 日、28 日及 3 月 2 日对这只狗的口腔及鼻腔样本进行检测，均对新冠病毒呈弱阳性反应。
On February 26, 28 and 2, AFCD tested the dog's oral and nasal cavity samples, all of which were found to be weak positive for the new crown virus.
香港大学公共卫生学院、香港城市大学动物医学及生命科学院及世界动物卫生组织专家一致认为，上述结果显示该宠物狗已低程度感染有关病毒，并很可能是由人类传染。
Experts from the Faculty of Public Health of the University of Hong Kong, the School of Animal Medicine and Life Sciences of the City University of Hong Kong and the World Organisation for Animal Health agreed that the results showed that the dog had been infected with the virus at a low level and was likely to be human-borne.
香港渔农自然护理署助理署长（检验及检疫）薛汉宗兽医指出，尚无资料显示感染的动物会传给人类或其他动物，因此不应弃养宠物。
The Assistant Director of Agriculture, Fisheries and Conservation (Inspection and Quarantine), Dr Thomas Sit, said there was no information that infected animals could be passed on to humans or other animals. Therefore, pets should not be abandoned.
希腊邮轮出现感染。
Greek cruise ship is infected.
3 月 4 日外媒报道，地中海邮轮公司旗下“歌剧”号一名奥地利乘客下船后被确诊感染新冠肺炎，船上两千余名乘客被要求留在船上等待指示，邮轮将在希腊科孚岛靠岸暂时隔离。
Mar 4: More than two thousand passengers aboard the Mediterranean liner Cruise, confirmed to have contracted pneumonia after disembarking from the ship, have been ordered to stay on board awaiting instructions and will be temporarily quarantined on the Greek island of Corfu, media reported Monday.
印度感染病例不断增多。
Infections are on the rise in India.
当地时间 3 月 2 日，新德里报告了首例确诊病例，患者是一名曾赴意大利旅行的男子。
The first confirmed case was reported in New Delhi on March 2, local time, of a man who had travelled to Italy.
他的六位家人也被感染。
Six members of his family were also infected.
3 月 3 日，确诊数字升至 28 例，其中包括 16 名意大利游客。
On 3 March, the number of confirmed cases rose to 28, including 16 Italian tourists.
《纽约时报》认为印度的真实的感染率可能比已知的更高，考虑到印度只有 22％的死亡获得医学认证。
The New York Times says the true infection rate in India may be higher than is known, given that only 22% of deaths in India are medically certified.
印度下周将迎来重要的宗教节日洒红节，总理莫迪没有宣布取消庆祝活动，而是敦促人们保持冷静。
Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged people to remain calm instead of announcing the cancellation of an important religious holiday, the Hindu festival of Saints, next week.
美国死亡病例升至 11 例，加州宣布进入紧急状态。
Deaths rose to 11 in the United States and a state of emergency was declared in California.
美国华盛顿州再有一名感染患者死亡。
Another infected person died in Washington state.
此前西雅图地区一所养老院至少有七名住户染病死亡。
At least seven residents of a nursing home in the Seattle area died.
目前美国确认的 11 例死亡病例中有 10 起发生在华盛顿州。
Ten of the 11 confirmed deaths in the United States now occur in Washington state.
加州报告了华盛顿州以外的首宗死亡病例，全州宣布进入紧急状态。
California has reported its first death outside Washington state, and a state of emergency has been declared.
这名死者存在基础疾病，可能在一艘从旧金山开往墨西哥的邮轮上接触到病毒。
The victim, who had a basic illness, may have been exposed to the virus on a ship sailing from San Francisco to Mexico.
目前加州至少有 54 例确诊病例，这一数字在全美各州中最高。
California now has at least 54 confirmed cases, the highest number of any state in the country.
截至 3 月 5 日，美国全国已有 158 名确诊新冠肺炎患者。
As of March 5, there were 158 confirmed cases of pneumonia in the United States.
美国参众两院的主要议员周三达成协议，将为抗击病毒提供83亿美元的紧急援助。
Key members of both houses of Congress agreed Wednesday to provide $8.3 billion in emergency aid to fight the virus.
随着美国政府因疫情处理不力而遭受批评，特朗普试图将问题归咎于他的前任。
As the US government has come under criticism for its poor handling of the epidemic, Trump has tried to blame his predecessor.
特朗普抱怨称，奥巴马通过的一项联邦法规加大了对该病毒进行大规模检测的难度，并称他在几天前已撤销相关规定。
Trump has complained that a federal law passed by Obama has made mass testing of the virus more difficult, and said he withdrew the rule a few days ago.
未来研判新冠病毒引起中枢神经感染，医院提醒注意意识障碍患者。
In the future, new crown virus causes central nervous infection, and the hospital reminds the patients with mental disorder.
3 月 4 日，北京地坛医院报告新冠病毒攻击中枢神经系统的病例。
On March 4, Beijing Ditan Hospital reported a case of a new crown virus attack on the central nervous system.
患者在 1 月 24 日住进地坛医院，有高热、乏力、呼吸衰竭等症状，且医治无效持续加重， 1月底出现“颌面及口角频繁抽搐的症状，还伴有持续呃逆”等，检查后发现为“中枢神经系统感染”，“头颅CT却未发现颅内异常，但脑脊液压力显著升高。
The patient was admitted to Ditan Hospital on January 24 with symptoms of high fever, fatigue and respiratory failure, and his medical treatment continued to worsen. At the end of January, he developed symptoms of "frequent convulsions of the jaw and mouth accompanied by persistent hiccup."
”经过针对病毒性脑炎的治疗，患者开始好转，于 2 月 25 日出院。
After treatment for viral encephalitis, the patient began to improve and was discharged on February 25.
地坛医院在官方微博中提醒“一旦患者出现意识障碍，要考虑病毒有可能攻击中枢神经系统，为患者进行脑脊液等相关检查，并完善脑脊液的核酸检测及基因测序等”。
"In the event of a mental disorder, consider the possibility that the virus could attack the central nervous system, perform correlative tests such as cerebrospinal fluid, and improve the detection and sequencing of cerebrospinal fluid," Ditan Hospital said in an official microblog.
到 3 月底，武汉有希望新增病例基本“清零”。
By the end of March, Wuhan is expected to increase the number of new cases "Qingnil."
中央指导组专家组成员、中国工程院院士、天津中医药大学校长张伯礼，在武汉接受了人民日报新媒体的专访。
Group member of the Central Steering Group, academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering and President of Tianjin University of Chinese Medicine Zhang Boli, interviewed in Wuhan by the new media of People's Daily.
“我们分析了疫情演变数据，目前来看，全国除湖北以外其他地区，2 月底新增病例基本“清零”；湖北省除武汉市以外其他地区，3 月中旬估计能基本“清零”；武汉市有希望到 3 月底实现基本“清零”。
"We have analyzed the data on the evolution of the epidemic, and now the number of new cases nationwide is basically" zero "at the end of February, with the exception of Wuhan city in Hubei Province, which is expected to be basically" zero "by mid-March.
从疫情整体发展趋势看，是这样的。
From the overall trend of the epidemic, this is the case.
但是，“清零”也不是绝对的，偶尔还是会出现几个新增病例。
But, "clear zero" also is not absolute, still can appear occasionally a few new cases.
”城市防控武汉——开设「康复门诊」，用中医治疗。
Urban Prevention and Control in Wuhan - Opening a "rehabilitation clinic" to be treated with traditional Chinese medicine.
3 月 5 日起，湖北省中医院光谷院区开设新冠肺炎康复门诊，接诊新冠肺炎出院患者。
Since March 5, Guanggu courtyard district of Hubei province's TCM Hospital has opened a rehabilitation clinic for patients discharged from Xinguan Pneumonia.
主要方法是中医，针对隔离点患者、居家隔离患者，“提供恢复期治疗与康复指导”，包括康复性的评估、康复训练、心理指导等。
The main method is Chinese medicine, for isolation point patients, home isolation patients, "provide rehabilitation treatment and rehabilitation guidance," including rehabilitation assessment, rehabilitation training, psychological guidance.
武汉——武汉部分医院恢复正常门诊。
WUHAN - Some hospitals in Wuhan have returned to normal clinics.
楚天都市报 3 月 5 日消息，随着抗疫的进行，武汉部分医院已恢复恢复正常门诊。
The Chu Tian Metropolis Daily reported on March 5 that some hospitals in Wuhan had resumed normal outpatient clinics following the outbreak of the disease.
具体情况可至相关网站查阅。
Details are available on the relevant websites.
湖北，赤壁——湖北赤壁市撤销乡镇村组防控交通卡口及城区部分卡点。
Hubei, Chibi - Chibi City, Hubei Province to abolish the township group of traffic card mouth and part of the city card.
3 月 5 日，赤壁市新冠肺炎疫情防控指挥部下达通知，到 3 月 6 日上午 10 点前，撤销该市各乡镇（办、场、区）之间以及村组之间所有疫情防控交通卡口，打通物理隔离，恢复正常通行秩序。
March 5, Chibi City New Crown Pneumonia Control Command issued a notice, by 10: 00 a.m. March 6, the city's towns (offices, fields, districts), as well as between the village groups, all the epidemic control traffic gates, physical isolation, and the restoration of normal order.
除了乡村卡点，城区部分卡点也将撤销。
In addition to rural card points, some of the urban card points will be removed.
赤壁市防控指挥部负责人说，撤销卡点是为了赤壁市内物资运输和农村春耕的方便，保障市民正常的生产和生活需求。
Chibi City, said the control command in order to remove the card for the transport of materials and rural spring ploughing convenience, to ensure normal production and life needs.
在赤壁市境内省与省、县与县之间的管控卡口，仍然严禁出入。
Access is still strictly prohibited between the province and the province, county and county in the city of Chibi.
小区管理上，还是执行此前规定。
On the community management, or the implementation of previous provisions.
截至 3 月 4 日，赤壁市已连续 19 天没有新增新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎病例。
As of March 4, Chibi City has not been new coronavirus infection pneumonia for 19 days in a row.
云南——云南 3 所学校因疫情防控失职失责被通报。
YUNNAN - Three schools in Yunnan province have been notified of failures in disease control and prevention.
通报称，近期，驻省教育厅纪检监察组对在昆 12 所学校校园疫情防控工作开展明察暗访，检查发现云南农业大学、云南体育运动职业技术学院、云南文化艺术职业学院疫情防控工作抓而不实、抓而不细，学校门禁管理不严格、值班人员擅离职守等问题，对上述学校有关人员的失职失责行为予以问责，并通报曝光。
A recent unannounced inspection by disciplinary inspection teams based at the provincial education department found that Yunnan Agricultural University, Yunnan Vocational and Technical Institute of Physical Education and Culture and the Yunnan Vocational College of Culture and the Arts were caught up in the epidemic prevention and control work.
意大利关闭各级学校。
Italy closed schools at all levels.
为了防止疫情继续扩散，意大利正式宣布从3月5日起，关闭全国各级学校与大学、球场和剧院至3月15日。
In order to prevent the spread of the epidemic, Italy officially announced the closure of schools and universities, stadiums and theatres at all levels throughout the country from 5 March until 15 March.
此前，意大利政府已关闭该国北部的学校与大学，并封锁十多个在疫情核心的城镇。
Earlier, the Italian government had closed schools and universities in the north of the country and blocked more than a dozen towns at the heart of the epidemic.
意大利3月4日新增587起确诊与28起死亡案例，累计确诊病例与死亡案例提升至3089例与107例。
Italy added 587 new cases and 28 new deaths on March 4, bringing the total number of confirmed cases and deaths to 3,089 and 107.
日本将要求从中韩入境日本的人员隔离两周。
Japan will ask to be quarantined for two weeks.
人民日报客户端 3 月 5 日消息，日本首相安倍晋三 3 月 5 日傍晚在新冠肺炎传染病对策总部会议上表示，将要求从中国和韩国入境日本的人员，在日本政府指定设施隔离两周。
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said at a meeting at the headquarters of the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic on the evening of March 5 that people entering Japan from China and South Korea would be required to be quarantined for two weeks at facilities designated by the Japanese government.
韩国将禁止口罩出口。
South Korea to ban mask exports.
3 月 5 日，韩国国务总理丁世均宣布，将于 3 月 6 日起全面禁止口罩出口。
On March 5, South Korean Prime Minister Ding Se-soo announced that he would ban the export of face masks from March 6.
随着疫情加剧，韩国口罩供不应求。
South Korea faces a shortage of masks as the epidemic intensifies.
除限制出口外，政府还将补贴厂商鼓励周末生产，提高口罩供应量。
In addition to restricting exports, the government will subsidize manufacturers to encourage weekend production and increase the supply of masks.
伊朗假释 5.4 万名囚犯以防监狱传播。
Iran paroled 54,000 prisoners to prevent prison spread.
截至当地时间 3 月 4 日中午，伊朗单日新增 586 例新冠肺炎确诊病例，全国累计确诊病例升至 2922 例。
By noon March 4, local time, 586 new cases of pneumonia had been confirmed in Iran, bringing the total number of confirmed cases nationwide to 2,922.
其中 552 例已经康复。
Of these, 552 have recovered.
当前，伊朗已超过意大利和韩国，成为新增病例增速最快的国家，死亡率也持续高于全球平均水平，达到 3.14%。
Iran has now overtaken Italy and South Korea as the fastest-growing country in terms of new cases, and the death rate remains above the global average of 3.14 per cent.
政坛多名要员确认感染。
A number of politicians confirmed the infection.
为避免群聚感染，伊朗暂时释放了全国大约四分之一的在押囚犯。
To avoid a mass infection, Iran has temporarily released about a quarter of the country's prison population.
但被判服刑 5 年以上，以及对公共安全构成威胁的“安全犯”将不会被释放。
But "security prisoners" sentenced to more than five years in prison and who pose a threat to public safety will not be released.
部分囚犯还要缴纳大额保释金，才能暂时离开监狱。
Some prisoners also had to pay substantial bail in order to leave the prison temporarily.
医疗方案国家卫建委发布「诊疗方案」（第七版）和「康复方案」。
Medical Programs The National Health Council (NSAC) released the "Diagnosis and Treatment Programme" (7th Edition) and the "Rehabilitation Programme."
3 月 4 日，国家卫健委发布《新型冠状病毒肺炎诊疗方案（试行第七版）》，较 2 月 19 日发布的第六版做出细化调整和补充，出院标准没有变化。
On March 4, the National Fitness and Health Commission promulgated the "New Coronavirus Pneumonia Diagnosis and Treatment Scheme (Trial Version 7)," which is fine-tuned and supplemented from the 6th edition released on February 19.
重要变化是增加「血清学检测依据」，指出“血清新型冠状病毒特异性IgM抗体和IgG抗体阳性；血清新型冠状病毒特异性IgG抗体由阴性转为阳性或恢复期较急性期4倍及以上升高”可被判定为确诊；治疗方式中，在「有创机械通气」中增加“吸痰”等措施来改善通气。
An important change was the addition of "Serological test evidence," stating that "new coronavirus-specific IgM antibody and IgG antibody-positive serum. New coronavirus-specific IgG antibody increased from negative to positive or increased by 4 times or more than the acute phase.
其他包括提示「传播途径」“由于在粪便及尿中可分离到新型冠状病毒，应注意粪便及尿对环境污染造成气溶胶或接触传播。
"As excreta and urine can be isolated to a new coronavirus, please note that faeces and urine can cause aerosol or contact transmission to the environment.
”增加「病理描述」，提到“发现病人的脑组织充血、水肿，部分神经元变性”，增加对儿童和孕妇的针对性的治疗方案。
Add a "pathology description," referring to "the detection of congestion, edema, and partial degeneration of neurons in the brain of the patient," and increased targeted treatment programmes for children and pregnant women.
同一日，国家卫健委发布《新冠肺炎出院患者康复方案（试行）》，提出 4 种康复治疗方法：呼吸功能训练、躯体功能训练、心理康复干预和日常生活活动能力训练。
On the same day, the National Fitness and Health Commission issued the Program for the Rehabilitation of New Crown Pneumonia Discharged Patients (Trial), proposing four rehabilitation methods: respiratory training, somatic functional training, psychological rehabilitation intervention and daily life activity training.
未经清洁的病房马桶、水槽、通风口等位置采集的样本均呈新冠病毒阳性。
The samples collected from the unclean toilet, flume and vents were all positive for the new crown virus.
国际顶级医学杂志《美国医学会杂志》（JAMA）以研究快报（Research Letter）的形式发表了一项新加坡团队关于新冠病毒如何污染空气、地面环境和个人防护设备的研究。
The leading international medical journal, the Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA), published a study by the Singapore team on how the new crown virus contaminates the air, the ground environment, and personal protective equipment in the form of a research alert.
研究发现，未经清洁的病房马桶、水槽、通风口等位置采集的样本均呈新冠病毒阳性，这意味着必须十分重视个人防护、病房清洁和手部卫生。
The study found that samples collected from unclean ward toilets, gutters, vents and other locations were all positive for the new crown virus, meaning that great attention must be paid to personal protection, ward cleaning and hand hygiene.
外围影响卢浮宫重新开放。
The outer influence of the Louvre reopened.
3 月 4 日，经过员工投票，卢浮宫宣布当天下午起重新开放。
On 4 March, following a staff vote, the Louvre was reopened in the afternoon of the same day.
卢浮宫曾于 2 月 29 日起闭馆讨论措施，重开后采取的措施包括只接受信用卡付款和只接受线上订票，对员工分发消毒剂凝胶、增加人员轮换班次等。
The reopening of the Louvre, which was closed for discussion on February 29, included accepting credit card payments only and accepting online bookings only, distributing disinfectant gels to staff and increasing staff turnover.
今年全球航空客运收入损失或达 1130 亿美元。
Global passenger revenue losses this year could reach $113 billion.
3 月 5 日，澎湃新闻记者从国际航空运输协会（简称“国际航协”，IATA）方面了解到，国际航协最新发布的新冠肺炎疫情（COVID-19）对全球航空运输业的财务影响预测， 2020 年全球客运业务的收入损失将介于 630 亿美元（数据基于 3 月 2 日新冠肺炎确诊数超过 100 例的国家）到 1130 亿美元（疫情传播范围更广的情况下）之间。
On March 5, Peng Pai journalists learned from the International Air Transport Association (IATA) (IATA) that the financial impact on the global air transport industry of the latest International Air Transport Association (COVID-19) forecast that global passenger revenue losses in 2020 would range from $63 billion (based on countries with more than 100 confirmed cases of pneumonia on March 2) to $113 billion (with the epidemic spreading more widely).
货运损失的预测数据尚在评估中。
Forecast data on freight losses are still being assessed.
国务院强调补贴向一线医务人员倾斜。
The State Council has emphasized subsidies to frontline medical staff.
3 月 5 日的中央应对新冠肺炎疫情工作领导小组会议强调，要进一步落实好关心关爱医务人员各项措施，临时工作补助、一次性慰问补助、卫生防疫津贴等要及时发放，向与患者直接接触的接诊、筛查、检测、转运、治疗等一线医务人员特别是救治重症患者的医务人员倾斜，不得按行政级别确定发放标准。
The meeting of the Leading Group on the Response to the New Crowne Pneumonia on March 5 stressed the need to further implement measures to care for medical personnel, timely payment of temporary assistance, one-time solicitude assistance and health and epidemic prevention allowances, and to give preferential treatment to frontline medical personnel who come into direct contact with patients, especially those who treat severe cases.
此次会议也提到了要解决滞留武汉外地人食宿问题、对生活不能自理的老幼病残等人员提供照料。
The meeting also mentioned the need to solve the problem of accommodation for people staying in Wuhan, and to provide care for the elderly, the sick and the disabled.
苹果店 iPhone 维修可能延期 2-4 周。
Repair of Apple's iPhone could be delayed for two to four weeks.
苹果向零售店员工发出警告，表示 iPhone 的零件将出现 2-4 周出现短缺。
Apple has warned retail store employees that parts for the iPhone will be in short supply for two to four weeks.
当顾客将一部无法维修的 iPhone 送修时，苹果会为其直接更换 iPhone。
Apple will replace the iPhone directly when customers replace it with an unserviceable iPhone.
报道认为这是受疫情影响导致供应链紧张的迹象。
The report said it was a sign of supply chain strain caused by the outbreak.
富士康称 3 月底在华供应链可以恢复。
Foxconn said the supply chain in China could be restored by the end of March.
舆论关注鳖龟蛙可以吃吗？3 月 4 日，「中国农业农村部」发布「农业农村部关于贯彻落实《全国人民代表大会常务委员会关于全面禁止非法野生动物交易、革除滥食野生动物陋习、切实保障人民群众生命健康安全的决定》进一步加强水生野生动物保护管理的通知」，提到“中华鳖、乌龟等列入《国家重点保护经济水生动植物资源名录》的两栖爬行类动物，按照水生动物管理。
The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs issued a notice on the implementation of the Decision of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress on the Prohibition of Illegal Wildlife Trade, Eliminating Abuse of Wild Animals and Safeguarding People's Life, Health and Safety.
”3 月 5 日，「国务院联防联控机制会」，农业农村部渔业渔政管理局局长张显良回答，鱼类等水生野生动物不列入禁食范围；包括中华鳖、乌龟在内的绝大多数养殖龟鳖和蛙类中的牛蛙、美国青蛙两个引进种可以养殖食用。
On March 5, the Secretary for Agriculture, Fisheries and Fisheries of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, Mr Zhang Xianliang, replied that aquatic wildlife such as fish were not included in the ban.
陕西一医院行政领导补助比一线医生高。
Administrative leadership subsidy is higher than first-line doctor in Shaanxi Province.
微博有人爆料，陕西省安康市中心医院领导拿的补助比援鄂一线的医生更多。
Weibo has been revealed that the leaders of Ankang City Central Hospital in Shaanxi Province receive more subsidies than doctors on the front line of Hubei.
安康市中心医院将所有感染病例都集中在三医院隔离和治疗，距离中心医院很远。
Ankang Central Hospital has concentrated all cases of infection in the three hospitals isolation and treatment, far from the central hospital.
中心医院院领导偶尔去三医院视察一下，有些科室负责人甚至根本没有去过一线，然而很多人拿的补助不仅远高于一线人员，甚至比该院援鄂一线的医生都要多。
The head of the Central Hospital occasionally visits the three hospitals. Some heads of department have not even been to the front line at all. However, many receive far more money than frontline staff and even more doctors on the front line.
“如心内科主任任晖，上了一天发热门诊就拿 9900。
"If department of cardiology director Ren Hui, on a day of fever clinic to take 9900.
”该院公布的补助标准是，基层员工每天是200元，领导们是每天300元，基层员工包括发热门诊的一线医护是干几天补助几天，而并不是每天都在抗疫一线的该医院院领导们是从疫情开始就算补助，算全勤。
The institute announced a subsidy of 200 yuan a day for grass-roots workers and 300 yuan a day for leaders, and a few days of first-line care for grass-roots workers, including a fever clinic, for a few days, not every day from the start of the epidemic.
所以很多一线的医护人员补助只有4000左右，而领导们不少获得上万元补助。
As a result, many front-line medical staff subsidies only about 4,000, and many leaders receive tens of thousands of dollars in subsidies.
安康市中心医院在 3 月 3 日做出了回应。
Ankang Central Hospital responded on March 3.
医院开会后认定，医院存在对一线防控人员工作补助核定标准把握不准、审核不严等问题。
After the meeting, the hospital found that the first-line staff work subsidies approved standards of uncertainty, lax audit and other issues.
党委书记、院长陈文乾代表领导班子接受院内职工和社会各界建设性的监督，并对工作中存在的问题诚恳致歉。
Party Secretary and President Chen Wenqian accept constructive supervision by hospital staff and the community on behalf of the leadership team, and sincerely apologize for the problems in the work.
该院将重新核定补助。
The hospital will re-approve the grant.
文中所有新闻和消息来源可通过下方链接查看：https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HjYdVnv7XyvP-e_ncOV4Gu-smyObp72E22yxGKJbfHg/edit《新型冠状病毒肺炎每日疫情播报》，可复制链接后科学上网打开。
All news and sources in the article can be viewed at the following link: https: / / docs.google.com / document / d / 1HjYdVnv7XyvP-e _ ncoV4Gu-smyObp72E22yxGKJbfHg / edit The Daily Coronavirus Pneumonia Daily Outbreak Report, which can be accessed online by copying links.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉新冠患者出院后死亡，香港检出宠物狗感染新冠，以及其他 24 条新闻。
Wuhan Xinguan patients died after discharge from hospital, Hong Kong detected a new canine infection crown, and 24 other news items.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "所有的鱼";。
Var nickname = & quot; all the fish & quot;;
var msg_title = "武汉新冠患者出院后死亡，香港检出宠物狗感染新冠，以及其他 24 条新闻";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & nbsp
var msg_desc = "我们为你选取了新冠肺炎的重要新闻";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; We've selected RPG's important news for you;;
var title ="所有的鱼";。
Valle = & quot; All the fish & quot;;
