“大家渐渐麻木，只是熬过而已”，武汉单亲母亲的抗疫记忆。
"People gradually numb, just survived only," Wuhan single mother's anti-epidemic memory.
我是大米。
I'm rice.
大米和小米                      。
Rice and millet.
大米和小米。
Rice and millet.
大米和小米是国内领先的自闭症谱系儿童服务平台，提供康复训练、融合教育支持、家长培训、线上课程及科普咨询等一体化服务。
Rice and millet are the leading autistic pediatric service platforms in the country, providing integrated services such as rehabilitation training, integrated education support, parent training, online courses and popular science counselling.
目前，我们已在北京、上海、广州、深圳、郑州开设线下服务机构及多所融合幼儿园，未来还将拓展至更多地区。
At present, we have established on-line services and integrated kindergartens in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Shenzhen and Zhengzhou, and will expand them to more areas in the future.
。
.
武汉一个月，我记住的几件事口述| 牛仔妈妈武汉公益组织“蜗牛家园“负责人11岁发育迟缓男孩牛仔的妈妈01老小区的自救群我跟儿子牛仔住在武汉汉口一个老小区，这里被户主们戏称为野院子，物业平时服务就不主动，有事的时候总找不到人。
Wuhan, a month ago, was remembered by my cowboy mother, Wuhan Public Welfare Organization, at the age of 11, the mother of a stunted boy cowboy, the mother of a cowboy. I live with my son, a cowboy, in an old district in Hankou, Wuhan.
1月23号，武汉封城后，居委会的标语突然从“倡议少出门”飞速变成了“禁止出门”，生活物资怎么解决？周围感染情况怎么样？身在疫区中心，未知的恐惧笼罩在老旧的房区里，挤压在每一张愁云惨雾的脸上。
On January 23, Wuhan, after the closure of the city, the signs of the neighborhood committee suddenly changed from "fewer initiatives go out" to "no go out," how to solve the problem of living things?
物业一问三不知，有业主提议让他建个群，方便大家团购物资，他不知想什么，总之就是不答应。
Property asked three do not know, owners proposed to let him build a group, to facilitate the purchase of goods, he did not know what, in short, do not agree.
大家决定自救，几个领头的业主把群建好，我是进去的第十号成员，之后不断有人加进来，还包括其他一些小区的人。
They decided to help themselves. Several leading owners built the group. I was the 10th member of the group, and people came in, including people from other neighborhoods.
这个群后来发挥了很大效用，一个多月来，我们通过这个群团购生活物资，发布求助信息，顺便吐槽物业，一致表示等疫情结束再跟这种不愿意担当的物业好好理论。
The group has worked well since then, and for more than a month we've been buying supplies, posting help messages, spitting out property, and arguing with reluctant property when the epidemic is over.
每天下午，群主叫号，十个人一组分批下楼拿菜，小区楼墙上，高音喇叭里一遍遍重复“分批领菜，保持一到两米间隔。
Every afternoon, the group called out, ten people came down in groups to pick up the dishes. On the wall of the building, the loudspeaker repeated the words, "In batches, keep one to two meters apart.
”领完菜后，大家又像小偷一样，匆匆忙忙上楼，我不知道怎么形容这样诡异的画面，只想到一个词：可怜。
When they had finished, they hurried upstairs again like thieves, and I did not know how to describe such a strange picture, thinking only of one word: pitiful.
牛仔喜欢趴在窗台上看窗外有一次，我正准备下楼领菜，小区群里有人发消息说，等会殡仪馆的要来拉尸体，建议大家避一下。
Cowboys like to look out of the window window, I was about to go downstairs to pick up food, a message from the community that the funeral parlour will come to pull the body, advised everyone to avoid.
殡仪馆来拉走的人，就在我家对面，我们都是三楼，老小区的房子，楼间距很逼仄，相互之间，一抬头，就能看到对方家里。
Funeral parlour to pull away people, just across from my home, we are the third floor, the old housing estate, floor spacing is very narrow, one, one looked up, can see each other's homes.
对面的那个人就这样走了，但我不知道，他有没有出现在疫情的死亡名单上。
The man across the street walked away, but I don't know if he was on the death list of the outbreak.
那时候，武汉每天能确诊的人数不过300人，有的人还没来得及确诊就没了。
At that time, Wuhan can diagnose the number of only 300 people every day, some people before the diagnosis is no longer.
人没了，在外人眼里就是结局，可关上门来，这家人的噩梦才刚开始，怀疑、恐惧和不安在封闭的空间里蔓延、感染，谁都逃不过。
When a man is gone, the end is in the eyes of the outsider; the door is shut; the nightmare of the family is only just beginning; doubts, fears, and uneasiness are spreading and infecting in closed spaces, and no one can escape.
02我和女儿的“战争”1月29号，武汉封城一个周。
02 My daughter and I "war" January 29, Wuhan closed the city for a week.
我跟女儿吵了有史以来最严重的一架。
I had the worst fight I've ever had with my daughter.
她用了最难听、最狠的话指责我，怪我为什么明知自己是亲密接触者却不告诉她。
She reproached me with the worst and harshest words, for not telling her why I knew I was a close contact.
“你有没有想过，这样会给别人的生活带来多大的影响！”女儿待在乡下男朋友家里，发过来的每一个字都透露着恐惧、羞愧和愤怒。
"Have you ever wondered what a difference it would make in someone else's life?" Every word she sent her daughter from her country boyfriend's home revealed fear, shame and anger.
争吵源于我的家里住过被确诊的病人，而21号晚上，在上海工作的女儿和她男朋友一起去男方老家过年的当晚，来我这里待过两个小时，吃了一顿饭。
The quarrel originated in my home with a confirmed patient, and on the night of the 21st, my daughter, who works in Shanghai, went with her boyfriend to my home town for the New Year's Eve.
在我这里住过的病人，就是前段时间在在网络媒体上掀起风浪，17岁在家死亡的脑瘫儿的父亲鄢小文。
The patient I lived with was Yan Xiaowen, the father of a 17-year-old cerebral palsy who died in the online media.
为了减轻负担，之前，我、鄢小文、还有另一个家长，我们三人组成了一个互助小组，一起照顾几个孩子，我家的客厅都改成了孩子们的活动场所。
To lighten the burden, Yan Xiaowen and I, together with another parent, formed a support group to look after several children, and our living room was transformed into a playground for children.
鄢小文没有收入，还带着两个孩子，我就在靠阳台边铺设了间上下铺的床，当做他们爷仨临时的家。
Yan Xiaowen, with no income and two children, built a bunk bed next to the balcony to serve as a temporary home for the trio.
女儿回来那天，鄢小文他们父子已经回老家了。
On the day her daughter returned, Yan Xiaowen and her father returned home.
而女儿跟我争吵那天上午，我也才知道鄢小文被确诊，鄢成去世的消息。
And the morning of my daughter's argument with me, I also learned about Yan Xiaowen's diagnosis and Yan Cheng's death.
当时，武汉的物资十分紧缺，我在小超市里好不容易购到两小瓶84消毒液，却不知道从何下手消毒。
At that time, Wuhan supplies are very scarce, I have to buy a small supermarket 84 bottles of disinfectant, but do not know where to start disinfection.
恐惧比病毒更密集，每一个角落似乎都附着密密麻麻的病毒，我甚至不敢大口呼吸，感觉空气都被病毒占领了。
Fear was denser than the virus, and every corner seemed to be stuck to a dense virus. I didn't even dare to breathe. I felt the air was occupied by the virus.
我在社群里问能不能买防护手套，一个朋友说她家里还有6个，叫我过去拿。
I asked in the community if I could buy protective gloves, and one friend said there were six left in her house and asked me to get them.
我戴好口罩，匆匆下楼，对方也包裹得严严实实，我走近，她把手套迅速塞给我，说了句最后6个都给你了，就慌慌张张走了，原本感谢的话被一下子塞回到喉咙里。
I put on my mask and hurried downstairs, the other side was wrapped up too. As I approached, she quickly slipped the gloves into my mouth, said the last six to you, and hurried away, her words of thanks thrust back into her throat.
那一刻我仿佛变成了病毒本身。
At that moment I felt like the virus itself.
女儿的消息还在不停发进来，她说我从来顾不上她，只管自己和牛仔的死活，因为带男朋友来了一趟家里，害人家一家都陷入了恐慌，她感觉好丢脸。
The news of my daughter kept coming in, and she said I never cared about her. I just wanted to live with the cowboy because she felt humiliated by bringing my boyfriend to the house and scaring the whole family.
还说这一次把话说明白了，以后她绝对不管牛仔。
And said this time to make it clear, she will never care about cowboys.
我全身气得发抖，却无力反驳，我亏欠她，也伤害了她，疫情只是把她内心的恐惧和痛苦放出来与我撕咬搏斗。
I was shaking with rage, but I could not refute it. I owed her and hurt her. The outbreak only unleashed her fear and pain on me.
城市生病了，我们的关系好像也生病了。
The city got sick and so did our relationship.
第二天，女儿的愤怒又突然不见，她跟我抱怨他们那边也不安全云云，叮嘱我保重身体，照顾好弟弟。
The next day, my daughter's anger suddenly disappeared, she complained to me that they are not safe there, told me to take care of the body, take care of my brother.
她托人在美国给我买了40个N95口罩，只是货来得慢，而我也没用上，这是后话。
She sent someone to buy me 40 N95 masks in the United States, but they came slowly and I didn't use them.
03牛仔和他的特殊学校同学相较往常，疫情期间，对牛仔的干预康复，我放松了很多。
The cowboy and his special school classmate compared to the usual, during the outbreak of cowboy intervention recovery, I relaxed a lot.
他情绪比较稳定，每天睡到10点到11点才起床，中午给他做饭，下午安排两个活动，做做手工，打打鼓，一天就过去了。
He was in a more stable mood, going to bed between ten and eleven every day, cooking for him at noon, arranging two activities in the afternoon, doing manual work, playing drums, and passing the day.
好在也算因祸得福，疫情期间，融合中国、大米和小米，反应迅速，及时提供了很多公益的居家干预服务，在孩子醒来之前，我会跟着学习，晚上带孩子的时候，也可以听听音频直播。
Luckily, it was a blessing in disguise. During the outbreak, China, rice and millet were merged to provide a quick and timely range of home-based interventions for the public good. Before the children woke up, I would follow them and listen to live audio at night when I was with my children.
牛仔在特殊学校读三年级，他们班上总共11个孩子，据我所知，已经有两个孩子的爷爷、奶奶在这场疫情中去世。
Cowboys are in third grade at a special school with a total of 11 children in their class. To my knowledge, grandfathers and grandmothers of two children have died from the epidemic.
其中一个孩子的家长我认识，孩子自闭症，小的时候和牛仔在一起干预过。
One of the parents of a child I know, the child autistic, when he was a child with cowboys have intervened.
夫妻俩都是武汉市某公立医院的医生，家里老人感染肺炎去世的时候，他们都在岗位上救治病人，孩子则一直住在陪读老师家里。
Both are doctors at a public hospital in Wuhan. When the elderly died of pneumonia, they treated patients at their posts, while the children stayed with their teachers.
家里有个自闭症孩子，老人感染过世，没有人知道这一个月他们夫妻是怎么坚持过来的。
There was an autistic child in the family. The old man died of infection. No one knew how the couple had managed to make it through the month.
前天，孩子妈妈才从一线换下来隔离休息。
The day before yesterday, the mother of the child from the line to replace the isolation rest.
出来后，她跟我发微信只说“太累了”。
After coming out, she wrote me a letter saying "Too tired."
04我身边的医生们因为工作的原因，我认识了很多医生，也是因为有他们在前面，疫情下，我勇敢的一面盖过了恐惧。
The doctors around me know many doctors because of their work, and because they are in front of me, my brave side overcomes my fear.
2月17号，女儿给我从美国买的40个N95口罩终于到家了，那时候武汉这边医护人员的防护物资依然很紧张，我左思右想，还是决定把这些口罩送给更需要的人。
On February 17, when my daughter finally got home with 40 N95 masks I had bought from the United States, medical staff on this side of Wuhan were still so nervous that I decided to give them to someone more in need.
我先把电话打给了一个比较熟的医生，问他需不需要口罩，他说让我把口罩给他另一位还在一线的同事。
I called a familiar doctor and asked if he needed a mask. He told me to give it to another colleague who was still on the front line.
他自己已经被感染了，刚出院，在家隔离用不上。
He himself had been infected, had just been discharged from hospital and was isolated from his home.
2月中旬，治愈出院的病例特别少，用我们老百姓的话来说，他这是死里逃生，是命大啊。
In mid-February, the number of cases cured was particularly low and, in the words of our common people, he was a narrow escape.
我心里特别难受，一下子没忍住眼泪。
I felt so bad that I couldn't hold back my tears.
接着他又回了我一条消息，“你们也要保重，一切都会好的。
Then he sent me another piece of news. Take care of yourself, everything will be all right.
”之后，我很快联系了另外一位在一线救治病人的医生，他先问我有没有用的，我说家里有一次性的普通医用口罩可以用。
"I quickly contacted another doctor who was treating patients on the front line and asked if I could use it. I said I had a disposable medical mask at home.
当天晚上，他开车跑到我们这里，这40个在路上辗转了20多天的口罩终于找到了它的去处。
That night, he drove up to us and the 40 masks, which had been tossing the road for more than 20 days, finally found their way.
口罩没到前，女儿千叮咛万嘱咐，让我省着用，口罩买的特别贵，后来我跟她说，国难当头，这么贵重的口罩送给一线医务人员更好，我和牛仔在家老老实实待着，做好隔离就行。
Before the mask arrived, my daughter could have spoken words to save my use, and it was very expensive to buy the mask. Then I told her that it is better for the country to give such expensive mask to front-line medical staff.
难得地，这一次我们母女终于意见一致，她没反对，只反复让我保重。
Rarely, this time, our mother and daughter finally agreed, she did not object, only repeatedly let me take care of.
42天，43天……封锁的时间还在无限叠加，沮丧的情绪让我们对数字越来越麻木，比如刚开始，听到惩办相关人员的新闻，大家都争相转发，觉得特别舒畅，可现在查处了那么多人，人们却又都慢慢沉默了。
Forty-two days, 43 days... the blockade continues to accumulate. Frustration makes us increasingly numb to numbers. For example, at the beginning, when we heard news about the punishment of the people involved, everyone felt very comfortable, but now that so many people have been investigated and punished, people are becoming silent.
我们都不希望这个世界会这么坏。
We all don't want this world to be so bad.
有人问我，你担不担心疫情结束武汉人会被歧视，我还真没想过，因为当下对我，甚至对更多疫区的人来说，活着才是一切。
I was asked if you were worried that Wuhan people would be discriminated against at the end of the epidemic. I never thought about it, because living is everything to me now, even to people in more affected areas.
▲▲▲整理|小熊  编辑|当当图|受访者提供  内容顾问|孙旭阳。
Running Bear Editing & # 124; & # 45; When & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 144; & quot; & quot; & quot;
我是大米。
I'm rice.
她每天都在为特殊孩子家庭努力。
She works every day for families with special children.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
已喜欢，对作者说句悄悄话。
Like it, whisper to the author.
发送给作者。
Send to author.
最多40字，当前共字。
Up to 40 words, currently in common.
她每天都在为特殊孩子家庭努力。
She works every day for families with special children.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“大家渐渐麻木，只是熬过而已”，武汉单亲母亲的抗疫记忆。
"People gradually numb, just survived only," Wuhan single mother's anti-epidemic memory.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "母婴育儿";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; mother and child care;;;
var nickname = "大米和小米";。
Var nickname = & quot; rice and millet & quot;;;
var msg_title = "“大家渐渐麻木，只是熬过而已”，武汉单亲母亲的抗疫记忆";。
var msg _ title = & quot; "Everybody is getting numb, only to survive," and & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by Wuhan single mother.
var msg_desc = "相比病毒，自闭症，活着才是一切";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var title ="大米和小米";。
var title = & quot; rice and millet & quot;;;
