她一下回过了头，以为是爸爸回来了。
She turned her head back, thinking it was her father.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
武汉封城以来，全国各地依次派出了217支医疗队，共计25633人支援湖北。
Since the city was closed in Wuhan, 217 medical teams have been dispatched from all over China, with a total of 25,633 personnel supporting Hubei.
在不计其数的一线工作者中，由外地派往湖北的医护人员是其中能够统计的一部分。
Among the countless frontline workers, the medical staff sent to Hubei from other places are a part of the statistics.
更多坚守于一线的人隐藏在庞大得无法统计的数字背后。
More people on the front lines are hiding behind numbers that are too big to count.
在这其中，有一个无法忽略的群体：那些已经为人父母的一线工作者。
There is one group that cannot be ignored: front-line workers who are already parents.
身为父母，他们最担心的或许不是自身安危，而是身后的孩子。
As parents, their biggest worry may not be their own safety, but the children behind them.
武汉市的一位社区工作者，在疫情中面对着前所未有的复杂工作——有人生病时，她负责统计、上报、叫救护车，社区采买和捐赠发放也由她统筹负责。
A community worker in Wuhan, faced with an unprecedented level of complexity in the epidemic, was responsible for counting, reporting, calling ambulances, buying and distributing donations.
她有两个孩子，老大在上小学，老二还不满1岁，为了能专心安排社区的工作，她一狠心，给老二断了奶。
She has two children, the eldest is in primary school, the second is less than a year old, in order to be able to concentrate on the community work, she is cruel, give the second son a milk.
因为害怕交叉感染，她在家里开始使用公筷，即使同住一屋，也尽量减少见面。
Fearing cross-infection, she started using chopsticks at home and even sharing a room kept her meetings to a minimum.
一位广西支援武汉的护士，也同样是两个孩子的妈妈。
A nurse from Guangxi who supports Wuhan is also the mother of two children.
分别前，孩子们抱着她哭。
Before they parted, the children held her in their arms and cried.
妈妈就哄他们，外面有一个病毒，很厉害，会让人生病，妈妈要去打病毒，把病毒打跑就回来。
Mom coax them, there is a virus outside, very strong, will make people sick, mother to fight the virus, hit the virus back.
在前线轮休时，她用水彩笔给孩子们画画，在画里，她穿着防护服，一手高举着巨大的针筒，对准另一只手抓着的臊眉耷眼的冠状病毒。
On her front-line break, she used a watercolor pen to paint the children, in which she wore protective clothing and held a large syringe in one hand against the coronavirus, which was floppy and drooping in the other hand.
对于姐弟俩而言，这就是妈妈打怪兽的证据。
For the brothers and sisters, this was evidence of his mother beating the monster.
她觉得外面世界发生的一切对孩子来说，都太难理解了。
She felt that what was happening in the outside world was too difficult for the child to understand.
孩子们也暂时不会明白，为什么亲密的父母一定要离开家。
The children also temporarily fail to understand why close parents have to leave home.
但总有一天他们会知道。
But one day they'll know.
父母们把发生在这个冬春之交的故事珍藏着，等一切都过去，再慢慢说给他们听。
The parents treasured the stories that took place at the turn of the winter and spring, and waited until everything was over and told them slowly.
文｜瞿麦编辑｜糖槭就像妈妈在身边陪着一样1月26日，天津第一批援助医疗队出发前往武汉，全队138人，护士邢蕊是其中之一。
+ yeg + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + +, + N + + + + +, + +, + +, + +, + +, + +, + +, + + + + + + + +, + + + + + + +, + + + + + + + +, + + + + + + + +, +
年三十当天，她就跟女儿说，妈妈要去武汉了。
On the thirtieth day, she told her daughter that her mother was going to Wuhan.
7岁半的希希当场就哭了。
Seven-and-a-half-year-old Heath cried instantly.
事实上，她早就习惯了妈妈不能像别的妈妈一样每天陪着自己。
In fact, she has long been used to her mother can not be like other mothers to accompany themselves every day.
好多个周末的白天，她一个人在家里做作业，妈妈就在房间里睡觉，准备上夜班，或是刚下夜班。
During the days of many weekends, she did her homework alone, and her mother slept in her room, preparing for the night shift, or had just started the night shift.
很偶尔的时候，妈妈才能去接女儿放学，希希就会很兴奋，「眼神和表情是不一样的。
Occasionally my mother would pick up her daughter from school, and Heath would be excited. "The eyes and expressions were different.
」但这一次，希希觉得妈妈「可能很难回来」——意思是，以往都没有分开过这么久，这次妈妈要去多久，谁也不知道。
But this time, Heath felt that her mother "might not be able to come back" - meaning that she had not been separated for so long before, and no one knew how long she would go.
希希写寒假作业，语文练习里有一个她不认识的词语，「危难」。
Xi Xi writes winter vacation homework, language practice has a word she does not know, "distress."
她问妈妈这是什么意思，妈妈说，危是危险，难是灾难，「武汉人现在就是处于这个环境。
She asked her mother what she meant, saying danger is danger, hardship is disaster, "Wuhan people are now in this environment.
」希希想到妈妈要离开会哭，哭完了，邢蕊开始进行责任教育。
"Xi Xi thought his mother was leaving and would cry. Xing Lian began to teach responsibility.
「我说这是我们的责任，就是工作的责任。
"I say it's our responsibility, it's our job.
我也有好多同学都在那边。
I have a lot of students over there, too.
做好安全防护会没有问题，你应该相信我。
There's nothing wrong with being safe. You should trust me.
」希希去机场送邢蕊出发上战场，那天，一个瞬间被央视的记者拍了下来——邢蕊蹲着，比希希更低一些，她拉着女儿的手，两个人都戴着口罩。
"Xi went to the airport to see Xing Lisen off to the battlefield. On that day, a CCTV reporter filmed Xing Ling squatting, lower than Xi Xi, taking her daughter by the hand and wearing masks.
后来，那张照片上了元宵晚会的大屏幕，好几个朋友和同事拍下来发给邢蕊看。
Later, the photo appeared on the big screen of the Lantern Festival Gala, which several friends and colleagues photographed and distributed to Xing.
她感到欣慰，但也知道，「在支援湖北的这几万名医护人员当中，可能有的人家里有两个孩子，可能有的人孩子比我的孩子还要小，他们其实对孩子的思念更多。
"Among the tens of thousands of healthcare professionals who support Hubei, some of them may have two children in their families, others may have children younger than my children, and they may actually miss their children more," she said.
」邢蕊不知道这场战役将打到哪一天。
Xing did not know the date of the battle.
在电话里，希希跟邢蕊说，每天晚上睡觉要穿着妈妈的T恤，再抱着妈妈的枕头。
On the phone, Heath told Xing that she wore her mother's T-shirt and held her pillow every night as she slept.
熟悉的气味能让小朋友迅速安定下来，就像妈妈在身边陪着一样。
The familiar smell can let the children settle down quickly, just like the mother in the side of the same.
邢蕊到达武汉的第26天，希希给她写了一封信。
Xing Lian arrived in Wuhan on the 26th day, Xi Xi wrote her a letter.
信上有一家三口的合影，还画了糖果，爱心，和彩虹。
The letter had a picture of a family of three, with candy, love, and rainbows.
「亲爱的妈妈，今天是2020年2月20日，妈妈离开家的第26天。
"Dear Mother, Today is February 20, 2020, the 26th day my mother leaves home.
妈妈，您不是说我喝完那箱牛奶您就回来吗，我都喝完好多天了。
Mom, didn't you say you'd come back after I had drunk that case of milk? I've been drinking well for days.
您怎么还没回来呢？我好想见您呀。
Why haven't you come back? I want to see you so much.
」这行字后面，画了一个边哭边嘴角向下撇的小圆脸。
"Behind the line was a small round face, curled from the corners of its mouth as it wept.
这种分离的悲伤是所有一线人员们共享的。
The sadness of separation is shared by all those on the front line.
没有人愿意离开自己的家人，放弃对孩子的陪伴，但在选择必须做下的那一刻，他们都本能地站在了另一边。
No one wants to leave their families and give up the companionship of their children, but they instinctively stand on the other side of the coin at the moment they choose what to do.
希希写给妈妈的信身为父母的共情将他们联结在了一起一千多公里以外，处在上海的百度工程师罗荣刚正在家办公。
A letter to his mother Heath's empathy for their parents bound them together more than a thousand kilometers away, while Luo Ronggang, a Baidu engineer in Shanghai, worked at home.
居家隔离的这一段时间，是他难得的陪伴家人的日子。
This period of isolation at home was a rare time for him to stay with his family.
罗荣刚主要负责小度智能音箱儿童方向的研发工作。
Luo Ronggang is mainly responsible for the development of small-scale intelligent speakers in children's direction.
他同样是两个女儿的父亲，大女儿上幼儿园中班，小女儿才刚一岁。
He was also the father of two daughters. The eldest daughter was in kindergarten, and the youngest was just one year old.
为人父母后，看问题的角度总是会从孩子出发，给世界蒙上一层柔软的滤镜。
As a parent, the point of view of the problem is always to start with the children, to give the world a soft filter.
因此，经罗荣刚研究开发的一些功能，似乎自带了「老父亲」光环。
Therefore, through Luo Rong just research and development of some of the functions, seems to bring "old father" aura.
给女孩们念故事书，是罗荣刚的习惯。
It is Luo Ronggang's habit to read stories to the girls.
但有时他加班回来已是凌晨。
But sometimes he comes back from overtime in the wee hours.
女儿开始懂事了，不会因此哭闹，她们已经开始明白「工作」和「加班」的含义。
Daughters began to understand, will not cry because they have begun to understand the meaning of "work" and "overtime."
罗荣刚却时常对此感到愧疚，尽管他时常会在加班之后给孩子买些零食、绘本和玩具作为补偿。
Mr Luo often feels guilty about it, though he often compensates his children by buying snacks, sketches and toys after working overtime.
去年10月，他所在的小度智能音箱团队酝酿了一个想法，他们想将语音定制功能投入到小度智能音箱中，用家人的声音给孩子读故事。
Last October, his team of small, intelligent speakers developed the idea of incorporating voice-customization features into small, intelligent speakers to read stories to their children in their own voices.
团队中很多人已经成为了父母，因为加班而无法陪伴孩子入眠，是他们共有的经历与隐痛。
Many people on the team have become parents, because overtime can not accompany their children to sleep, it is their common experience and pain.
项目很快启动。
Project started soon.
这是一次跨地域、跨部门的大型合作，目标是在2020年的农历新年前交付使用，实际的开发时间只有不到一个月。
This is a large cross-regional, cross-sectoral cooperation, the goal is to be delivered before the Chinese New Year 2020, the actual development time is less than a month.
开发的难度存在于多方面。
The difficulty of development lies in many aspects.
在技术上，他们发现用于训练父母声音的GPU成本和服务器压力非常大。
Technically, they found the GPU cost and server pressure for training parents' voices to be very high.
经过讨论后，他们采取了更折中的方案：父母先录20句话，等服务器比较空闲的时候，再离线生成模型。
After discussion, they came up with a more eclectic approach: Parents recorded 20 sentences first, and then offline the model when the server was free.
用户最多等一个小时，就能生成有着自己音色和语调的句子。
Users can wait up to an hour to produce sentences with their own timbre and intonation.
第一次试验时，谁也不知道最终的训练效果会怎样。
At the first test, no one knew what the ultimate training effect would be.
他们用项目里资历最高的T10高级工程师的声音训练出第一版样本。
They trained the first version with the sound of the most senior T10 engineer on the project.
结果令人惊喜。
The results were surprising.
那个高级工程师的声音原本就具有比较高的辨识度，放出来时，不管是聚在办公室里的同事，还是远程办公的同事，都一下认出了那是谁的声音。
The senior engineer's voice was inherently highly recognizable, and when it came out, it was recognized by colleagues in the office, as well as those working remotely.
功能临近上线前是最后的测试环节，团队在北京进行了为期一周的封闭。
The team closed off in Beijing for a week as the function neared go-live for the final test session.
所有人都在一个地下会议室里进行密集研发，每天都忙到很晚，有时甚至会工作到凌晨两点。
All worked intensively in an underground conference room, working late into the day and sometimes until two in the morning.
那一周里，罗荣刚每天早上七点多会和家人视频一下。
That week, Luo Rong Gang every morning more than 7 o'clock video with his family.
那是他一天中最放松的时刻，甚至比睡觉还放松。
It was the most relaxing time of the day, even more so than sleeping.
因为回到酒店睡觉的感觉，只是「临时睡一下」。
The feeling of going back to bed at the hotel was just a "brief nap."
一周封闭期结束后不久，新功能上线，再过不久，武汉封城。
A week after the closure period, the new function went live, and soon after, Wuhan closed the city.
小度智能音箱的工作人员并非处在抗疫一线岗位，但很多已经为人父母。
Small-scale intelligent speakers staff are not in the frontline anti-epidemic posts, but many have been parents.
在庞杂的新闻中，有一类引起了他们的格外关注：关于那些身为父母的一线工作人员。
One category of news that has caught their eye is that of front-line workers who are parents.
他们注意到，这些医生、护士、警察和志愿者等一线人员，最放心不下的并不是自己的安危，而是无法和年幼的孩子相见。
They noted that it was not their own safety, but their inability to meet young children, that was the most worrying aspect of front-line personnel, such as doctors, nurses, police officers and volunteers.
曾经有一则新闻中写道，一位援鄂女医生出发前，孩子抱着妈妈哭了一小时，但是妈妈说，「你不舍得妈妈去，但妈妈也必须要去，妈妈去是为了让更多的小朋友的爸爸妈妈可以平平安安在家陪他们的宝宝。
A woman doctor hugged her mother and cried for an hour before she left, but her mother said, "You don't want your mother to go, but your mother must go too.
」身为父母的共情将他们联结在了一起。
The empathy that binds them together as parents.
1月30日开始，小度携手度小满金融向奋战在武汉一线参与防疫救援工作的医护人员家庭捐赠两万台小度在家智能屏。
On January 30, Xiao Du joined hands with Xiao Man Finance to donate 20,000 small-scale smart screens to the families of medical workers who fought in the first line of epidemic prevention and rescue work in Wuhan.
视频通话功能、疫情播报功能，以及罗荣刚团队上线的语音定制功能，成了连接这些无法回家的医护人员与家人的一扇任意门。
The video calling function, the epidemic announcement function, and the voice customization function of Luo Ronggang's team have become an arbitrary door to connect these medical staff who cannot go home with their families.
罗荣刚的女儿在玩小度智能屏特殊时期的陪伴抵达武汉的第三天，邢蕊在一篇推送里读到了小度携手度小满金融发起的捐赠2万台小度在家智能屏给一线人员的活动。
On the third day of Lo's daughter's arrival in Wuhan, accompanying her during the special period of the mini-smart screen, Xing read in a push the donation of 20,000 small-scale small-scale home smart screen to front-line staff activities.
她填了申请信息，很快，信息审核通过，天津的家人收到了小度在家智能屏。
She filled in the application information, soon, the information approval, Tianjin family received small-scale smart screen at home.
有了新玩具，希希的注意力得到了一部分转移，思念也有了寄托。
With the new toy, Heath's attention was partly diverted and his thoughts reposed.
希希在玩小度智能屏希希在家里念电子英文绘本，念完了，她把音频发给妈妈。
Heath was at home reading an electronic English version of the book at home, and when she finished, she sent the audio to her mother.
她有时还会通过视频电话表演才艺，最新的节目是唱跳《火红的萨日朗》，唱完了，还要跑去钢琴那里弹两句。
She sometimes does a video-phone show, the latest of which is "Red Sun Long," finishes and runs to the piano.
邢蕊则会隔着屏幕，跟希希说身边有趣的事。
Xing Lian will be across the screen, with Heath to tell the interesting things around.
比如酒店门口的那条小狗，迎风抽芽的小树，比如食堂里帮忙做饭的志愿者，还有自己用发下来的萝卜做的咸菜。
For example, the dog in front of the hotel, small trees sprouting in the wind, such as volunteers in the cafeteria to help cook, and their own radish pickles.
希希变得异常关心母亲的冷暖。
Heasy became very concerned about her mother's warmth and coldness.
她每天都要问，小度小度，今天武汉的温度是多少？然后再跟妈妈汇报。
She asked every day, small degree, today Wuhan temperature is how much? And then report back to her mother.
有一天大降温，气温从15度跌到了5度，希希提醒她，一定要多穿一点，贴暖宝宝。
One day, the temperature dropped from 15 degrees to 5 degrees. Heath reminded her to wear more clothes and keep the baby warm.
邢蕊形容那一天，「像极了北方的深秋，但这是武汉的初春。
Xing described that day, "like the northern late autumn, but this is Wuhan early spring.
」她拍下被春雨打落一地的树叶，「枯叶落下，必定有新芽生长，春暖花开还会远吗？」模拟爸爸妈妈真实的声线，是特殊时期陪伴亲人的形式。
She took pictures of the leaves lying on the ground in the spring rain. "Will new shoots grow when the leaves fall?" The true voice of her parents is the form of accompanying someone in special times.
但在此之外，物理意义上的陪伴永远无法被替代。
But beyond that, physical companionship can never be replaced.
现在，罗荣刚在家办公。
Now, Luo Rong just works from home.
每天中午，女儿要午休，藏在小度智能屏里的「爸爸」念故事给她听。
Every day at noon, my daughter takes a lunch break and reads a story to her, hidden in a small intelligent screen.
到了晚上，罗荣刚会争取把工作放在一边，到女儿的床头，去给她们读一篇故事。
In the evening, Ron would try to put his work aside, go to her daughter's bed, and read them a story.
时间拨回到春节以前，疫情还未来临，罗荣刚和小度智能音箱团队的所有人，都没意识到自己可能在做一件能量巨大的事。
As time passes back to the Spring Festival, the epidemic is still looming, and neither Luo nor anyone on the small-scale intelligent speakers team is aware that they may be doing something hugely powerful.
那天，罗荣刚从外面回家，他准备在小女儿身上试验新上线的语音定制功能。
That day, Luo Rong just came home from the outside, he is ready to test the new voice customization function on the younger daughter.
他录了一段话，由此生成用自己声音定制的一篇故事朗诵，然后远程控制自家的音箱，自己躲在门后，悄悄观察小女儿的反应。
He recorded a passage from which he recited a story customized from his own voice, then remotely took control of his speakers, hid behind the door and quietly watched the younger girl's reaction.
女孩原本背对着音箱，正坐着吃饭，当自动生成的「爸爸」的声音从身后传出时，她一下回过了头，以为是爸爸回来了。
The girl, who was sitting with her back to the speaker, turned her head and thought it was Dad who had come back when the voice of the auto-generated "Daddy" came out from behind.
没看够？长按二维码关注《人物》微信公号更多精彩的故事在等着你。
Not Enough? More exciting stories waiting for you, two-dimensional attention to "People" micro-message.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
已喜欢，对作者说句悄悄话。
Like it, whisper to the author.
发送给作者。
Send to author.
最多40字，当前共字。
Up to 40 words, currently in common.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
她一下回过了头，以为是爸爸回来了。
She turned her head back, thinking it was her father.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "她一下回过了头，以为是爸爸回来了";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; She turned round and assumed that her father had come back.;
var msg_desc = "身为父母，他们最担心的是身后的孩子。
var msg _ desc = & quot; as parents, the children they worry about most are those behind them.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
