在武汉，一个诗人不再写诗。
In Wuhan, a poet no longer writes poetry.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
「胸中有块垒，手中却无刀，只能通过文字刺激一下那个庞然大物。
"There was a block in his breast, but there was no knife in his hand. He could only stimulate the monster with words.
」文｜张月编辑｜槐杨消失的一个月诗人小引在阳台上养了四盆花，月季、吊兰、芭蕉，还有一盆不知名的野荆棘，是在珞珈山上散步时顺手挖回来的。
"less than locust Yang, the poet, raised four pots of flowers on the balcony, the rose, the orchid, the plantain, and a pot of unknown wild thorns, which had been picked up while walking on the mountain.
武汉气候愁人，夏天湿热冬天湿冷，他懒散，好几天才想起来浇一次水，几株植物争气，几年下来虽然没开花，但也鲜活茂盛。
Wuhan climate sad, hot and humid summer winter, he lazy, several days to think of watering water, a few plants contention, although did not bloom, but also vibrant.
2月21日，午饭过后，他搬个小板凳坐在阳台上抽烟、晒太阳，那是他的自留地，是深夜里写不出诗和文章时喘口气的地方。
On 21 February, after lunch, he sat on the balcony smoking and bask in the sun, which was his reserve, the place to catch his breath in the dead of night when he could not write poems or articles.
从高楼上俯视，旁边紧挨着的小区空荡荡的，没有人，偶尔有送外卖的经过，过去之后，就又空了，马路也空荡荡的，很少有车。
Overlooking the high-rise, the neighborhood next to it was empty, empty, with few cars, and the occasional delivery of take-out.
小引坐在那儿，一边抽烟一边看，不记得坐了多久，偶尔低头，发现几盆花看上去都有些不好，吊兰有些蔫，叶子枯了好多片；月季和野荆棘都掉了蛮多叶子；四个花盆里的土都干涸了。
The little guide sat looking at it, smoking, not remembering how long he had been sitting, occasionally looking down and finding several pots of flowers looking a little bad, some limp, some withered leaves in the hanging orchid, quite a few leaves in the rose and the wild thorns, and the earth in the four pots that had dried up.
他终于想起来，已经很久很久没有给花们浇过水，「似乎忘记了它们的存在。
He finally remembered that it had been a long time since he had watered the flowers, and that he seemed to have forgotten them.
」这是武汉封城的第三十天。
This is the 30th day of Wuhan Sealing City.
他感觉自己已经丧失了时间感。
He felt that he had lost his sense of time.
武汉与外地连接的通道、长江隧道、交通要道次第封锁，不断加码，最后是小区的大铁门。
Wuhan and other links between the corridor, the Yangtze River tunnel, traffic artery next to the blockade, constantly adding yards, and finally the district of the iron gate.
他去楼下喷泉池旁边抽根烟，没两分钟就被小区的大爷劝回去了。
He went downstairs to the fountain and had a cigarette. Within two minutes he was persuaded to go back to his neighborhood.
这是一种类似于囚禁的生活，在他眼里，日子不再是一天一天的，变成了一团一团的，或者说，一坨一坨的。
It was a life akin to captivity, in which the days were no longer, in his eyes, day by day, but into a mass, or, in a lump, a lump.
「每一天和每一天之间不存在间隔，也不存在区别，就像一团云雾一样『哗』地一下过来，过了几天之后，你才意识到这个时间过去了。
"There was no space between each day and each day, and there was no difference. It came like a cloud. It took a few days for you to realize that the time had passed.
」他说。
'he said.
穿着秋裤，他在屋子里走来走去。
He was walking up and down the room in his autumn trousers.
抽烟抽得更凶，一天要十来根。
Smoke more heavily. It takes about a dozen cigarettes a day.
头发越来越长，尤其是鬓角。
Hair is growing longer, especially at the temples.
此前接受媒体采访时，对方请他拍一张自己的照片，他严词拒绝，「我蓬头垢面一个多月了，完全不能见人。
In an earlier interview with the media, he was asked to take a picture of himself, he refused, "I have been unkempt for more than a month, completely unable to see people.
」记忆也变得缓慢，对于一月发生的事情他印象深刻，二月的事情需要仔细想一想，几天前好像因为一个笑话大笑一场，但笑话内容是什么来着？他想不起来了。
Memories were slow, he was impressed by what had happened in January, and he needed to think hard about February, when he seemed to laugh at a joke a few days ago.
接受《人物》采访时，他有点不确定地问：「今天多少号了？」「3月1号。
In an interview with People, he asked with some uncertainty, "What's the date today?" "March 1.
」电话那头，他像是吓了一跳。
"At the other end of the line, he seemed startled.
是的，已经三月了，楼下的李树开了花，是这座城市里开得最早的，而对于在这里居住了47年的诗人来说，「整整一个月消失了。
Yes, it was March, and the plum trees downstairs blossomed, the oldest in the city, and for the poet who had lived there for 47 years, "the whole month is gone.
」「消失」的一个月里，绝大部分武汉人不再需要上班，明天没有什么要紧的事情做。
During the "vanishing" month, the vast majority of Wuhan people no longer need to work, there is nothing urgent to do tomorrow.
小引也是如此，他不需要像往常一样去旁边的武汉大学做土木工程实验和教学，也见不到那些谈诗论道、胡吃海喝的朋友。
He did not need to go to Wuhan University next to him to do experiments and teaching civil engineering, and did not see those who talk about poetry, eat and drink friends.
黑白颠倒，他每天熬到凌晨五点才睡觉，中午起来给儿子做饭，炒个尖椒肉丝，加个快手青菜，再蒸个鸡蛋。
Black and white upside down, he stayed up until 5 a.m., noon to cook for his son, stir-fry peppers meat, add a fast green vegetables, and steamed eggs.
午后得打个瞌睡，不然熬夜之后容易「半昏迷」。
You have to doze off in the afternoon, or you'll go into a coma after staying up late.
睡醒了就歪在客厅沙发上看书。
Wake up on the living room sofa and read.
他最近在看美国人类学家詹姆斯·斯科特写的《逃避统治的艺术》，讲的是东南亚的山民为什么要逃离国家的控制，他对书里一句缅甸歌谣印象深刻：「宝塔已经完成，但是国家已经毁灭。
He recently read "The Art of Evading Governance," by American anthropologist James Scott, about why mountain people in Southeast Asia are fleeing from state control. He is impressed by the Burmese ballad: "The pagoda is finished, but the country is destroyed.
」看书闷了，就去阳台上放个风，俯瞰脚下空荡荡的城市。
The book was boring, so he went out on the balcony and looked down on the empty city.
五点钟就又该去做饭，儿子上高二，每天在家自习，得注意营养，晚上可以炖个牛肉吃。
At five o'clock it was time to cook again. My son was a sophomore in high school, studying at home every day.
晚饭时，父子聊一会儿天。
Father and son chatted together during supper.
小引最近给儿子推荐沈从文《湘行散记》，儿子边吃边给他讲沈从文如何跑到城楼看杀人、如何偷偷去游泳、如何骗私塾的先生。
Shen Congwen recently recommended to his son "Xiangxing Sanzhi", while eating to tell him how Shen Congwen ran to the tower to see how to kill people, how to sneak to swim, how to deceive the private school gentleman.
少年不焦虑，对这突如其来的疫情、隔离，像放了长假一般快乐。
Teenagers do not worry about this sudden epidemic, isolation, like a long holiday as happy.
多年前，小引写过一首名为《落叶》的诗。
Many years ago, Xiao Quan wrote a poem called "Fallen leaves."
「再也没有什么值得你去关心了/除了亲人、晚餐和天气。
"Nothing is worth caring about anymore / except family, dinner and the weather.
」他没有想到有一天真的过上了这样的生活。
"He didn't think that one day he would live like that.
武汉连着下了几天雨，降温了，小引开了暖气。
Wuhan continued to rain for a few days, cooling down, small pilot heating.
阳台是冷与热的交界处，午后坐在那里时，有一丝不真实。
The balcony is the junction of cold and heat, there is a little bit of unreal afternoon sitting there.
相比起那些在医院绝望奔波的人，他没有遇到什么真正的困难。
He did not encounter any real difficulties as compared with those who were desperate at the hospital.
冰箱里装满了菜和肉，阳台上还有好多包火锅底料，烟够抽到更暖和的春天，身边的亲人好友健康安好，除了不自由，他的生活看上去正常而幸福，如果，能忽略掉内心如影随形的悲痛感的话。
The refrigerator is full of vegetables and meat, there are many bags of hot pot materials on the balcony, smoke enough to warm the spring, friends and relatives around him are healthy and well, except not free, his life looks normal and happy, if you can ignore the sadness of his heart.
诗人小引 图源受访者真实、持续而坚定的写作小引51岁，在武汉居住了47年。
The poet quotes the source of the interviewee's true, persistent and determined writing at the age of 51, who lived in Wuhan for 47 years.
小时候跟父母住在武汉水利电力学院的教工五舍，那时候这所高校还未并入武汉大学，他在校园里度过了自己的少年和青年时代，在珞珈山漫山遍野地跑，熟悉山上的果子、植物和动物，还有东湖里粼光闪闪的水和鱼；了解学校里的书店，还有校门外的夜宵摊儿。
When he was a child he lived with his parents at WuHan University, where he spent his adolescence and youth running across the hills and knowing the fruits, plants and animals there, as well as the glittering water and fish in the East Lake.
他在这里长大、恋爱，结婚生子，至今住在离这所大学不到3公里的街道口。
He grew up here, fell in love, married and had children, and still lives less than three kilometers from the university.
武汉之于他，「像是呼吸，所有认识的人都在这里，所有的记忆也都在这里，它已经是你的生命了，你就没有办法和它有企图割裂的想法。
Wuhan is to him, "like breathing, all the people know here, all the memories are here, it is your life, you can not and it has no attempt to separate the idea.
」隔离的夜晚，他和朋友们视频，隔着屏幕喝威士忌，一个月下来，七八瓶酒见了底。
"Isolated night, he and his friends video, across the screen to drink whisky, a month later, 78 bottles of wine to see the bottom.
有一天，视频聊天群里一共有9个人，谈起周围死亡的人。
One day, there were nine people in the video chat group talking about people who had died around them.
有三个人说有亲戚和同事死于新冠肺炎，其他六人，都有亲友感染。
Three people said they had relatives and colleagues who died of pneumonia, while six others had relatives and friends infected.
小引的武汉，显露出脆弱。
The quoted Wuhan, revealed the fragility.
和朋友们视频结束，他躺在床上，久久地望着天花板。
After the video with his friends, he lay in bed and looked at the ceiling for a long time.
小引猜，这座城市里大概有很多人和他一样，深夜沉默地望着天花板，用武汉话来说，这情形叫「望天」，「意思就是很无奈的情况，去他妈的，算了吧，反正你也无力抵抗。
Guess there are a lot of people in this city like him, looking at the ceiling in silence late at night. In Wuhan, it's called "looking up to the sky," which means "helpless situation, damn it, forget it, you can't resist anyway.
」李文亮去世第二天晚上，他看到一个视频，两个年轻的男孩去武汉市中心医院送花圈，挽联有些皱，他们仔细地把它抚平，转过身掏出口哨，吹了起来。
The day after his death, he saw a video of two young boys going to Wuhan Central Hospital to send wreaths and draw a few wrinkles. They carefully smoothed it, turned around and whistled.
看到此处，他落了泪。
Seeing this, he shed tears.
他的表达一直理性，遣词用句都很克制，唯有讲起那个瞬间，他有些控制不住地哽咽。
His expression had always been rational and his language restrained, except for the moment he could not help choking.
「往常觉得生离死别悲欢离合有些矫情，如今身处其中，才觉得悲痛。
"It is sad to be in the midst of what used to be an affectionate sense of parting.
」封城之后，他一句诗也没有写出来。
"After the city was sealed, he did not write a word of it.
「在遇见灾难的时候，是不是应该动笔，是不是应该写诗，我觉得这是很次要的一个问题，关键是你在灾情里面作为一个人，如何面对自己的内心，因为你和这个世界重新遭遇了，你遭遇了一个新的世界，而不是往常的、你以为的那个世界。
"I think this is a very minor question. The key is how you, as a person in a disaster situation, face your heart, because you and the world have come together again, and you have come across a new world, not the kind of world you used to think.
」他说。
'he said.
但他还是要写。
But he still had to write.
他说过文字的作用，「胸中有块垒，手中却无刀，只能通过文字刺激一下那个渐渐麻木的不可一世的庞然大物。
He had said the word, "There is a block in the breast, but there is no knife in the hands, can only stimulate through words that gradually numb the mighty monster.
」1月22日，他开始写日记，自此每日一篇《来自疫区武汉的消息》，发到「小引诗歌」公众号上，至今发了43篇。
On January 22, he began to keep a diary. Since then, he has published a daily report on Wuhan, an epidemic area, which has been published in the public column titled "Poetry in Quote" and 43 so far.
他记录下当天发生的事情：武汉政策的变动、挣扎的人、死去的人……每天晚上11点打开电脑，妻儿已经睡觉，他在客厅写作。
He records what happened that day: Wuhan policy changes, struggling people, dead people... Every night at 11 o'clock on the computer, his wife and children have gone to bed, he is writing in the living room.
儿子有鼻炎，他不敢在客厅里抽烟，烟瘾犯了就搬着电脑去厨房写，把抽油烟机打开。
His son has rhinitis, he did not dare to smoke in the living room, smoking addict to carry the computer to the kitchen to write, the pump open.
一篇2500字的文章通常会花去2个小时，更漫长而不可控的时间花费在与系统的捉迷藏中。
An article of 2500 words usually takes two hours, and a longer, uncontrollable time is spent playing hide-and-seek with the system.
他一个一个地猜测哪些字词是需要调整的。
He speculated, one by one, on which words needed adjustment.
一开始这些日记只是和个人有关的记录，「这次灾难一定是整个人类历史上，在武汉的历史上，以及在我的人生历史上，都是一件绝无仅有的大事，从写作者的角度来说，面对大事情的时候，我要把它记下来。
"This disaster must have been a unique event in the history of mankind, in the history of Wuhan, and in the history of my life. From the writer's point of view, I will write it down in the face of great events.
」他并不觉得这记录有多重要，但随着日子推移，他发现也许不只是和自己相关。
"He didn't think the record was important, but as the days went on, he realized that it might not be just about himself.
疫情前，他的公众号每篇文章阅读量在三四千左右，疫情后，每篇涨到了四五万。
Before the outbreak, his public number was about three or four thousand readings per article, and after the epidemic, each article rose to four hundred and fifty thousand.
写到二十来天的时候，他想放弃。
When he wrote about twenty days, he wanted to give up.
疲惫，苦苦寻找到底是哪个词有问题，找来找去还是找不到，他觉得头疼欲裂，太阳穴的血管突突地跳。
Tired, struggling to find out which word is the problem, to find or not to find, he felt a splitting headache, the veins of the temple suddenly jump.
骂了一句脏话，他关上电脑去睡觉了，那是唯一一天断更。
He shut off his computer and went to bed. It was the only day off.
第二天打开公众号后台，发现有几百条留言，有人关心他是不是生病了，有的怕他出事了，有人一直问，怎么没有了？「你才发现好多人都在跟读，他们觉得灾区里面有一个人还正常地活着，还可以写作。
The next day, the public phone backstage, found hundreds of messages, people concerned about whether he was sick, some fear of his accident, someone has been asking, "Why not?" You just found a lot of people are reading, they feel that there is a person in the disaster area who is still alive and writing.
这反过来给你一种压力。
This in turn puts pressure on you.
」在围观之下，他希望自己的写作不要有表演的性质，保持民间写作的立场，「那是一种独立的，或者说相对独立的姿态，在某些思考上是不合作的，是字面意义抽离出来往后退一步的。
Under the watchful eye, he wished that his writing should not be of the nature of a performance, but maintain the position of folk writing. "It is an independent, or relatively independent, gesture that is uncooperative in some ways, and a step back from the literal meaning.
」也因此，他失去了一些文章。
As a result, he lost some of his articles.
一位朋友在视频喝酒的时候劝他，不要再写了。
One friend advised him to stop writing when he was drinking on a video.
小引有一些写诗的朋友，他们也写得很少了。
There are some friends who write poems, and they write very little.
他猜，也许他们还在写，只是没有公开发表。
Maybe they were still writing it, he guessed, but it wasn't published.
写作可以在静默中继续。
Writing can continue in silence.
在他看来，灾难之后，写诗并非是野蛮的，用谎言继续灾难才是野蛮的。
In his view, it was not barbaric to write poetry after a disaster, but to continue a disaster with a lie.
反抗野蛮的唯一办法，就是真实、持续而坚定的写作。
The only way to resist barbarism is to write truthfully, persistently and firmly.
「不能让我们写下去的是那些谎言，而不是这些生死。
"It's the lies we can't write about, not the life and death.
一个写作者如果看清楚这一点，在我们没有能力去推翻这个谎言的情况下，我们用真实的记录和谎言站在一起，我相信真实是会胜出的。
If a writer sees this clearly, in the absence of our ability to disprove the lie, we stand together with a true record and a lie, and I believe that the truth will prevail.
」他不再写诗，却觉得，这些日记也可以称为「诗」，因为他没有「强写」，也没有编造，更没有唱颂歌。
He no longer wrote poetry, but felt that these diaries could also be called "poems," for he had not "forced" them, nor had he invented them, let alone sung carols.
武汉街头 尹夕远 摄「它应该会活下去」一月，「正常」活着的一月，感觉已经很遥远了。
Wuhan street Yin Xiyuan "it should live" January, "normal" living January, the feeling is very far away.
1月20日晚上，小引去汉口和几位朋友聚会，吃了牛肉火锅和基围虾之后，他和一位朋友在江滩散步，旁边是宁静的长江。
On the night of Jan. 20, Xiao Gui went to Hankou to have a party with some friends. After eating beef hotpot and shrimp, he and a friend walked along the river bank, beside the quiet Changjiang River.
晃晃悠悠，他们走到了附近的爪哇酒吧，那是他们最爱去的地方。
Wobbling, they walked to the nearby Java bar, where they loved to go.
酒吧门口摆着一艘破旧的木船，他们经常开玩笑说：「在这里喝酒，是失败主义者的草船借箭。
In front of the bar there was an old wooden boat. They often joked, "Drink here. You're a loser."
」那是一个自由散漫的地方，遍地文艺青年，大部分人都是葛优躺，小引和朋友喝了几瓶啤酒就散了。
"It was a place of freedom, filled with literary youths, most of whom lay in Ge You, and the little guide and his friends drank a few bottles of beer and dispersed.
他记得那天天气晴朗，酒吧里坐满了人，人们相互敬酒，没有人戴口罩，也没有人提起新冠病毒。
He remembered the sunny day, the bar was full of people, people toasted each other, no one wore masks, and no one mentioned the new crown virus.
那是他习以为常的场景，喝到兴起时，常常有人朗诵诗歌。
It was the sort of scene to which he was accustomed, and on the rise poetry was often read aloud.
小引的诗也常谈到酒，《和月亮有关》里，他写道：「那个夜晚/其实没什么悲伤和喜悦/我们去街道口的小酒馆吧/不谈命运/就像草地上的两只昆虫/朝有光的地方飞去。
Quotes often refer to wine, "About the Moon." He writes, "That night / There was no sorrow or joy / Let's go to the pub on the street / Let's not talk about fate / Just like two insects on the grass / Where there is light.
」某种程度上，「爪哇好像是世外桃源，病毒与它无关。
In a way, "Java is like a paradise and the virus has nothing to do with it.
」他说。
'he said.
也是那一天晚上，钟南山在电视上宣布「人传人」，此后一切都急转而下。
It was also that night that Zhong Nan Shan announced "human-to-human" on TV, after which everything turned upside down.
小引记得，小时侯家附近有一家国营商店，那时叫合作社，店里卖食品糖果和五金，店里有个售货员叫三元。
I remember that there was a state-owned shop near Hou's house. It was called a cooperative. It sold food, candy and hardware.
大玻璃罐装着亮晶晶的糖果，小引总是拿着家里牙膏皮换来的几分钱去三元那里买姜糖，多边形的糖果包在马粪纸里，能吃一下午。
Big glass jars are filled with glittering candies, and little guides always take a few pennies from home toothpaste to buy ginger sugar. Polygons are wrapped in horse manure and can be eaten all afternoon.
那是80年代初的事情。
That was in the early '80s.
将近40年过去了，小引总是记得三元，也许是因为糖果，「就觉得幸福和甜蜜都是他带来的。
Nearly 40 years later, the little quotation always remembered $3, perhaps because of the candy, "I think he brought happiness and sweetness."
」三元温和爱笑，喜欢拿着一把吉他在柜台后面弹，小引后来上大学弹吉他也是受他影响。
"Sanyuan, a mild-mannered person, liked to play behind the counter with a guitar. He also played guitar in college.
他们一直在共同的圈子里，只是彼此想不到要专门交换讯息。
They had been in the same circle, but had never thought of exchanging messages.
2月的最后一天，一位朋友告诉他，三元去世了。
On the last day of February, a friend told him that $3 had passed away.
他心中沉痛，但在当天的日记里，他只在结尾处提到这位老友，「云飞兄突然跟我说，三元上周得肺炎，已经死了。
But in his diary of the day, he only mentioned the old friend at the end. "Brother Yun-fei suddenly told me that he had pneumonia last week and was dead.
」「每一个文字它都可以往最痛苦的地方去下刀子」，小引说，「但一个冷静的写作者他应该会知道在这样的一个情况下，去世的人去世了，如果你在旁边看着的话，你才会知道活着的人必须要继续活下去。
"Every word it can use to stab where it hurts most," Quote said. "But a cool writer should know that in a situation like this, the dead die, and if you look around, you will know that the living must live.
」他写过一首诗，《说起来是在春天》，「清晨出门的人啊/如此迟钝/花朵中的事情他们熟视无睹。
"He wrote a poem," Say it in Spring, "" People who go out in the morning / They turn a blind eye to things in flowers.
」那种心情，「你还在正常的生活中，但是不知道这种生活马上要破碎了。
"You're still in your normal life, but you don't know that life is about to break up.
」经历过这个二月，他说，再也不会写那样的诗了。
After that February, he said, he would never write a poem like that again.
他知道了正常的生活随时可能破碎。
He knew that normal life could break down at any moment.
疫情期间，他问爪哇酒吧的老板方文，酒吧怎么样？方文答，还开着，但是只有自己一个人在里面喝酒了。
During the outbreak, he asked Fang Wenwen, owner of the Java bar, how was the bar? Fang Wen-tat was still open, but he was alone in the bar drinking.
疫情最严重的时候，方文一个人去江滩踢足球，给小引发来视频。
At the height of the epidemic, Fang went to the beach alone to play football, to trigger a small video.
阳光极为灿烂，像大把大把的钱洒在脸上，万里无云，平时熙攘的码头空无一人。
The sun was shining brilliantly, like a lot of money sprinkled on the face, cloudless, usually bustling wharf empty.
方文在视频里感叹：「这真他妈浪费啊！」那一刻，小引觉得，这座城市总会恢复正常。
Fang Wen sighed in the video: "This is a goddamn waste ah!" At that moment, Xiao Ying felt that the city would always return to normal.
但是无论如何，人们不会回到从前了。
But no matter what, people won't go back.
「我们不可能回到原来的武汉了。
"We can't go back to Wuhan.
」在他看来，哪怕没有经历扑到跟前的生离死别，这场灾难依然给每个武汉人都打上了标记，每个活下来的人，身上都写着「大难不死」，自此之后，不会再像原来那样活。
"In his view, the disaster marked every Wuhan person, even though he had not experienced the final moments of his life before him, and every one who survived was marked" Undead "and will not live as he has since.
「情感、认知、生死观……很多东西都会发生变化。
"Emotion, cognition, life and death... a lot of things change.
我不知道具体会变化在哪里，可能要等到真正解封的那一天才会知道。
I don't know exactly where it will change, but it may not be known until the day it is really unsealed.
」小引说。
"said the little guide.
他希望那个「大难不死」的标记能让时代记住，「再过17年，不要再发生这种事情，希望整个社会的结构变得越来越好，越来越稳固，而不是在一个病毒的冲击下支离破碎。
He hoped that the mark of "survival" would remind the world that "in another 17 years, this will not happen again, but rather that the fabric of society as a whole will become better and stronger rather than fragmented by a virus."
」没有写诗，但在最近给《诗刊》写的一篇短文里，小引推荐了土耳其诗人塔朗吉所写、余光中翻译的《火车》：去什么地方呢?这么晚了，美丽的火车，孤独的火车?凄苦是你汽笛的声音，令人记起了很多事情。
"No poetry was written, but in a recent essay to the Psalms, Tarangi, a Turkish poet, was quoted as saying:" Where are we going? Beautiful trains, lonely trains? Sad is the sound of your whistle, and it is a reminder of many things.
为什么我不该挥舞手巾呢?乘客多少都跟我有亲。
Why shouldn't I wield a towel? Passengers are more or less related to me.
去吧，但愿你一路平安，桥都坚固，隧道都光明。
Go, I hope you have a safe journey. The bridges are strong and the tunnels bright.
一位朋友用木头做了花盆，把吃掉了菜叶子的青菜根种到里面，放在阳台上。
A friend made a flowerpot out of wood and planted the roots of vegetables that had eaten the leaves on the balcony.
几天过去，居然长出了小小的绿芽。
A few days later, actually grew a small green buds.
小引笑着说，大概不会好吃吧。
Xiao Yang said with a smile, probably not delicious.
但那一点绿意让人感觉到希望，如同他在文章里所写的，「在黑暗中踽踽独行，习惯了黑暗的人，往往在一根火柴面前惊诧莫名。
But that little bit of greenery, as he wrote in his article, "traveled alone in the dark, accustomed to the dark, often in front of a match surprised.
」阳台上，他的花状况也不错，他给它们仔细浇了水，为蔫了的吊兰松了松土，「花开是不太可能的，就是让它们活着吧，它们应该还会活下去。
"On the balcony, his flowers were in good condition, and he watered them carefully, loosening the loosened soil for the limp cranes.
」图源受访者没看够？长按二维码关注《人物》微信公号更多精彩的故事在等着你。
Did the respondents not see enough? There are more wonderful stories waiting for you to focus on People in two dimensions.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
已喜欢，对作者说句悄悄话。
Like it, whisper to the author.
发送给作者。
Send to author.
最多40字，当前共字。
Up to 40 words, currently in common.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
在武汉，一个诗人不再写诗。
In Wuhan, a poet no longer writes poetry.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "在武汉，一个诗人不再写诗";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; in Wuhan.
var msg_desc = "反抗野蛮的唯一办法，是真实、持续而坚定的写作。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
