​用高质量信息保证高质量决策。
Leads to quality information to ensure quality decision-making.
包刚升。
Bao Gang-sheng.
中国新闻周刊                      。
China News Weekly.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
这里是《中国新闻周刊》掌门周刊君，影响有影响力的你。
This is the head of China News Weekly magazine, the influence of influential you.
和我一起拨开迷雾，追寻真相，守望时代。
Join me as we move through the fog, seek the truth and keep watch.
。
.
决策过程能否获取真实有效的信息是事关生存还是毁灭、繁荣还是衰败的问题用高质量信息保证高质量决策特约评论员/包刚升发于2020.3.9总第938期《中国新闻周刊》任何系统要想得以发展，都离不开正确的决策。
Whether or not the decision-making process is about survival or destruction, prosperity or decay is a matter of survival or destruction. High-quality information to ensure high-quality decision-making Invited commentators / Bao Gang Ascended in 2020.3.9 General Issue 938 China News Weekly Any system that can be developed cannot be developed without sound decision-making.
我们很多时候强调执行，但只有在决策对的时候，执行才有意义。
We often emphasize implementation, but implementation makes sense only when decisions are right.
按照管理学家彼得·德鲁克的看法，执行要解决的是“把事情做正确”，而决策才关乎是否在“做正确的事情”。
According to management scientist Peter Drucker, execution is about doing the right thing, and decision-making is about doing the right thing.
影响决策的因素有很多，其中最重要的就是决策赖以做出的信息。
There are many factors that influence decision-making, the most important of which is the information on which decisions are made.
无论对国家治理，还是对组织管理，信息质量往往决定决策质量的高低。
The quality of information often determines the quality of decision-making, both for national governance and for organizational management.
问题是，如何才能获得正确决策所需的信息？最容易令人想到的是影响信息获取的外部原因，比如科技发展水平、事物的复杂性、突发事件的随机性等。
The question is, how do you get the information you need to make the right decision? The most obvious are the external factors that affect access to information, such as the level of technological development, the complexity of things, the randomness of events, etc.
而实际上，影响有效信息获取的，除了技术原因，还有内部的组织原因。
In fact, effective access to information, in addition to technical reasons, there are internal organizational reasons.
对任何组织来说，决策通常都是由少数人做出的。
For any organization, decisions are usually made by a few people.
而决定关键信息能否从系统内外各个角落汇集到做出决策的议事厅、会议室或者决策者的办公桌上的，就是内部因素。
Internal factors determine whether critical information can be brought together from every corner of the system to the desks of the meeting rooms, conference rooms, or policymakers who make the decisions.
问题是，系统在收集、处理和传递信息上往往不是中性的，会屏蔽某些信息，而鼓励另一些信息的传递。
The problem is that systems are often not neutral in the collection, processing and transmission of information, shielding some information and encouraging the transmission of others.
这种选择性，就容易导致决策出现偏差。
This selectivity tends to lead to bias in decision-making.
一个常见的现象是，许多系统倾向于屏蔽掉“坏消息”，因为坏消息不仅听上去不太悦耳，而且容易让人对现状、战略、前景甚至是领导力产生质疑。
A common phenomenon is that many systems tend to screen out "bad news," which not only sounds unpleasant, but also tends to call into question the status quo, strategy, prospects, and even leadership.
这当然是不受系统欢迎的。
This, of course, is not systematically welcomed.
古代“花剌子模信使”的传说所描述的，就是一种偏爱好消息的组织文化。
The archaic Arabian model courier describes an organizational culture that favors good news.
这种文化尽管有一定风险，但只要整个局面没有崩坏，在很多系统内都是容易蒙混过关的。
This culture, while risky, is easy to muddle through in many systems as long as the whole situation does not collapse.
反之，如果披露真实信息的个人成本太高，个人几乎就不会选择传递真实信息了。
Conversely, if the personal cost of disclosing truthful information is too high, individuals will almost certainly not choose to pass it on.
这样，如果一切波澜不惊，那大家依然可以岁月静好。
In this way, if all is not disturbed, then everyone can still be quiet years.
但一旦遭遇真正的严重问题，惯常的这种信息处理方式，就可能引发决策危机甚至是严重危机。
However, once the real serious problems encountered, the usual way of information processing, can lead to a decision crisis or even a serious crisis.
现成的例子就是发生在武汉的新冠肺炎疫情的初期，多家医院的医生凭借自己专业的敏感，已经发现了不明原因肺炎病人，但无论他们是向相关部门传达这样的信息，还是通过互联网发出信息提醒别人，都被警告和制止。
A case in point was the early days of the outbreak of pneumonia in Wuhan, where doctors in several hospitals, by virtue of their professional sensitivity, had identified patients with unexplained pneumonia, but were warned and deterred, whether they conveyed such information to the relevant authorities or sent messages alerting others via the Internet.
这种对所谓“坏消息”的屏蔽所导致的决策偏差，最终酿成的是灾难性后果。
The decision-making bias caused by this so-called "bad news" shield turned out to be disastrous.
面对系统获取有效信息的难题，首要问题是在系统内部鼓励真实信息的披露、获取和传递。
Facing the difficult problem of obtaining effective information, the first problem is to encourage the disclosure, acquisition and transmission of real information within the system.
但这绝不是简单地号召大家努力讲真话那么表面化。
But it is not simply a superficial call to try to tell the truth.
这既需要改变奖励好消息和惩罚坏消息的文化，还需要为那些发出和传递真实信息的人提供正向激励而非惩罚。
This requires both a change in the culture of rewarding good news and punishing bad news, and positive incentives, not penalties, for those who send and convey the true message.
其次，决策仅仅借助系统内部信息是不够的，而是要充分借助分散在外部的各种公开信息。
Second, it is not enough to rely on information within the system for decision-making, but rather to make full use of publicly available information that is dispersed externally.
在系统外部，人们由于没有直接嵌入利益网络中，反而更可能发布和传播真实信息。
Outside the system, people are more likely to publish and disseminate real information because they are not directly embedded in the benefit network.
最后，降低决策层级也是有效的做法。
Finally, lowering the decision-making level is also effective.
从信息源到决策权之间的链条越短，信息被扭曲的可能性就越低。
The shorter the chain between information sources and decision-making power, the less likely it is that information will be distorted.
许多决策者对层级更低的信息敏感度不够，他们认为，“下面”即便发生什么事也不会影响全局。
Many policymakers are not sensitive enough to lower-level information, arguing that even what happens "below" won't affect the overall picture.
但是，蝴蝶效应的存在就否定了这种想法。
But the Butterfly Effect negates this idea.
分散决策，有可能防止蝴蝶效应对一个高度复杂系统构成的威胁。
Decentralized decision-making makes it possible to prevent the Butterfly Effect from posing a threat to a highly complex system.
“让听到炮声的军官们来做决策”，说的就是这个逻辑。
"Let the officers who hear the cannon make the decision," said the logic.
总之，无数事实告诉我们，决策过程能否获取真实有效的信息，是事关生存还是毁灭、繁荣还是衰败的问题。
In short, innumerable facts tell us that whether the decision-making process can obtain real and effective information is a matter of survival or destruction, prosperity or decay.
新冠肺炎防控的决策过程，就是一个鲜活的例证。
The decision-making process for the prevention and control of new crown pneumonia is a vivid example.
值班编辑：俞杨封面报道《新冠病毒——我们要付出多大代价》《围城之战——我们如何过关》《武汉攻坚——我们如何与疫情赛跑》《防控之辨——我们怎样科学应对》点击下图，一键下单。
On-duty editor: Yu Yang cover story "New Crown Virus - how much we pay for it" "The siege of the city - how do we cross the border" "Wuhan attack - how do we race with the epidemic?"
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
​用高质量信息保证高质量决策。
Leads to quality information to ensure quality decision-making.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "中国新闻周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "​用高质量信息保证高质量决策";。
var msg _ title = & quot; used quality information to ensure high-quality decision-making;;
var msg_desc = "决策过程能否获取真实有效的信息，是事关生存还是毁灭、繁荣还是衰败的问题";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; whether survival or destruction, prosperity, or decay is at stake;
var title ="中国新闻周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by China News & quot;
