官员如何被问责？疫情防控外公众最关切。
How officials are held accountable? The public is most concerned about the disease outside its control.
徐天。
Xu Tian.
中国新闻周刊                      。
China News Weekly.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
这里是《中国新闻周刊》掌门周刊君，影响有影响力的你。
This is the head of China News Weekly magazine, the influence of influential you.
和我一起拨开迷雾，追寻真相，守望时代。
Join me as we move through the fog, seek the truth and keep watch.
。
.
实事求是2月14日，江西南昌的一个小区，市民在进入小区时出示自己的身份证。
Realistic February 14, Nanchang, Jiangxi, a small community, when citizens enter the community to show their identity cards.
图/中新官场“疫情问责”观察本刊记者/徐天发于2020.3.9总第938期《中国新闻周刊》3月2日，一则“疫情问责”新闻引发热议——因“武汉女子监狱刑满释放的新冠肺炎确诊人员离汉抵京”事件，引发了湖北省司法系统的“地震”。
2007-9-25 21: 48 "Epidemic Accountability" in Wuhan Women's Prison An outbreak of "accountability for the outbreak of SARS in Wuhan" triggered a "quake" in the judicial system in Hubei Province on March 2.
在湖北方面，对省司法厅党委书记、厅长谭先振予以立案审查调查，省监狱管理局党委书记、局长郝爱民，省监狱管理局党委委员、副局长胡承浩，党委委员、政治部主任张新华及刑罚执行处处长李欣均被予以免职以及立案审查调查。
In Hubei province, the secretary and director of the provincial judicial department, Tan Xianzhen, the secretary and director of the provincial prison administration department, Hao Aimin, the member and deputy director of the provincial prison administration committee, Hu Chenghao, party committee member, director of the political department, Zhang Xinhua, director of the political department and Li Xin-jin, chief of penalty enforcement department.
直接相关方、武汉女子监狱原党委书记、监狱长周裕坤在原先已被免职的情况下，被立案审查调查，副监狱长郭秋文及刑罚执行科科长汤早容也被免职并立案审查调查。
The party directly concerned, the former secretary of Wuhan Women's Prison Party Committee, prison director Zhou Yukun has been dismissed in the case of the original case, the case was investigated, deputy prison director Guo Qiuwen and sentence enforcement section chief Tang Zhirong was also dismissed and investigated.
另外，武汉市东西湖区公安分局副局长尹志强被免职并立案审查调查。
In addition, Wuhan East and West Lake District Public Security Branch Deputy Commissioner Yin Zhiqiang dismissed and file a case for investigation.
免职一词，在此次疫情时期频繁出现，每一次都引起强烈关注。
The term dismissals, which are common in this period of the epidemic, have caused intense concern in each case.
最先引起注意的被免职官员是黄冈市卫健委原主任唐志红。
The first dismissed official to attract attention was Tang Zhihong, former director of the Huanggang Health Care Commission.
1月底，在面对中央指导组派出赶赴黄冈的督查组时，她“一问三不知”，随即在1月30日被免职。
At the end of January, she was removed from her post on January 30 after being asked "three questions" by the Central Steering Group's supervisory team on its way to Huanggang.
免职是什么样的问责手段？在此次疫情中，官员如何被问责？这是除了疫情本身、防控措施之外，公众最为关切的问题。
What kind of accountability is dismissal? How are officials held accountable in this epidemic? This is a matter of public concern, in addition to the epidemic itself, prevention and control measures.
问责的依据黄冈方面对唐志红免职的通报称，“黄冈市委研究同意，提名免去唐志红同志黄冈市卫生健康委员会主任职务，其免职按有关法律规定办理。
(Huang Zhihong) (Huang Zhihong) (Huang Zhihong) The Huanggang municipal committee has agreed to remove Comrade Tang Zhihong from the post of director of the Huanggang city health committee.
”根据《党政领导干部选拔任用工作条例》，党政领导干部需免去现职的情形有八类：达到任职年龄界限或者退休年龄界限的；受到责任追究应当免职的；不适宜担任现职应当免职的；因违纪违法应当免职的；辞职或者调出的；非组织选派，个人申请离职学习期限超过一年的；因健康原因，无法正常履行工作职责一年以上的；因工作需要或者其他原因应当免去现职的。
According to the Regulations on the Selection and Appointment of Cadres for Party and Government Leadership, leading Party and government cadres should be relieved of their current posts in eight categories: those who have reached the post-service age limit or the retirement age limit.
仅从官方通报来看，唐志红被免职的原因尚不十分清楚。
The reasons for Mr Tang's dismissal are not entirely clear from official reports alone.
同理，后来被免职的湖北省鄂州市卫健委原主任王时文，官方通报表示，“提名免去王时文同志市卫健委主任职务，原任市公立医院管理中心主任职务因机构更名自行免除。
Similarly, Wang Xiwen, former director of the Hubei Huizhou Wei Bodyguard Commission, who was dismissed later, was dismissed from his post as head of the municipal health and wellness committee.
”其被免职的原因同样难以准确判断。
The reasons for his dismissal are equally difficult to determine with precision.
实际上，此次疫情中湖北省还有更高级别的被免职官员，包括湖北省卫健委原党组书记张晋和原主任刘英姿。
In fact, there were higher-level dismissals in Hubei province during the outbreak, including Zhang Jin, the former party secretary of the Hubei Wei Bodyguard Committee, and Liu Yingzi, the former director.
一位其他省份的基层监察委干部告诉《中国新闻周刊》，免职用于有过错行为的公职人员，其中一种可能是，其行为的性质还有待进一步查清核实，只是当时已不适于继续任职而先行免职。
A cadre of grass-roots monitoring committees in other provinces told China News Weekly that one possibility was to remove public officials for wrongful acts, one of them being that the nature of their acts had yet to be further ascertained and verified, except that they were no longer fit to continue their duties and were dismissed first.
中国人民大学反腐败与廉政政策研究中心主任毛昭晖告诉《中国新闻周刊》，目前湖北一些官员的免职和一般意义上的免职是不同的。
Mao Zhaohui, director of the Center for Anti-Corruption and Integrity Policy Research at Renmin University of China, told China News Weekly that the removal of some officials from Hubei province was different from dismissal in general.
“这一次的免职，紧接着配套会有问责。
"This removal will be followed by accountability.
但是目前来看，（可能会是）这次事态平息以后，再追加问责。
But for now, it is likely that the situation will subside before additional accountability.
”原因有二，一是如果马上问责，可能事实不太清楚；二是会影响注意力，当前要把注意力全部放在防范疫情上。
The reasons are twofold: if accountability is immediate, the facts may not be clear; and second, attention must now be focused entirely on preventing the epidemic.
因此，以上几份免职通报还有待进一步观察。
It remains to be seen, therefore, how many of these dismissals were communicated.
那么，在疫情中，湖北省是否有做出问责性质的免职决定？答案是：有，并且很多。
So, in the midst of the epidemic, does Hubei Province have a decision to remove itself from office with accountability? The answer: yes, and a lot.
比如本文开头所提到的湖北省司法系统官场地震的案例，多人被免职并被立案审查调查。
For example, in the case of the official earthquake in the judicial system in Hubei Province mentioned at the beginning of this article, many people were dismissed and investigated.
根据《中国共产党纪律检查机关监督执纪工作规则》，“纪检监察机关经过初步核实，对党员、干部以及监察对象涉嫌违纪或者职务违法、职务犯罪，需要追究纪律或者法律责任的，应当立案审查调查。
According to the Rules Governing Disciplinary Work of the Disciplinary Organs of the Communist Party of China, "the disciplinary inspection and supervision authorities shall, after preliminary verification, file a case for investigation and investigation against Party members, cadres and objects under supervision who are suspected of disciplinary or official infractions or official duties and who need to be investigated and investigated.
”也就是说，要立案进行审查调查的，都是明确已掌握部分违纪或者职务违法、职务犯罪事实和证据的。
In other words, those who want to file a case for examination and investigation are those who have already mastered part of the facts and evidence of disciplinary or official infractions or official crimes.
而这种情形下所做的免职决定，也必然带有问责性质。
The decision to remove a person from office in such cases is also necessarily of an accountability nature.
另一个广为人知也清晰明了的免职问责是针对湖北省红十字会的问责。
Another well-known and clear accountability for dismissals is that of the Hubei Red Cross.
根据湖北省纪委监委网站的消息，“经调查，省红十字会有关领导和干部在疫情防控期间接收和分配捐赠款物工作中存在不担当不作为、违反‘三重一大’规定、信息公开错误等失职失责问题……决定免去张钦省红十字会党组成员、专职副会长职务，并给予其党内严重警告、政务记大过处分”。
"After investigation, the leaders and cadres of the provincial Red Cross Society in the prevention and control of the epidemic committed omissions such as not acting, violating the 'triple triple' rule and information disclosure errors, etc... decided to dismiss Zhang Qin Red Cross Party members and full-time vice-chairmen, and to give them serious warning and government records.
免职原因很显然，官员违纪违法，免职之外，被给予党纪、政务的双重处分。
The reason for dismissal is clear, officials break the law, removal from office, the party discipline, political affairs were given dual sanctions.
免职的不同原因，反映了对官员进行问责的轻重程度。
The different causes of dismissal reflect the degree of accountability of officials.
问责有几种方式，包括组织处理、党纪处分、政务处分等。
There are several ways of accountability, including organization, discipline, administrative sanctions, etc.
简单地说，组织处理相对后两者较轻，党纪处分针对党员，政务处分则针对所有履行公职的监察对象。
In short, the organization of the latter two are relatively light, party discipline is targeted at party members, and administrative sanctions are targeted at all those who perform official duties.
免职，是组织处理的一种，并非处分形式。
Removal from office is a form of organization, not disposition.
根据相关条例，问责有一定的影响期。
Accountability has an impact period under the relevant regulations.
受到诫勉的领导干部，六个月内不得提拔或者重用；引咎辞职、责令辞职和因问责被免职的党政领导干部，一年内不安排领导职务，两年内不得升职；因不适宜担任现职调离岗位、免职的，一年内不得提拔。
Leading cadres who are subject to the commandment may not be promoted or re-elected for six months, leading cadres who resign or are ordered to resign or be dismissed for reasons of accountability, shall not be placed in leadership positions for one year and may not be promoted for two years.
也就是说，上述各个尚未明确原因的免职通报，如果是认定其不适宜或者被问责，至少一年内不得提拔，甚至两年。
In other words, the above-mentioned notifications of dismissal for unspecified reasons cannot be promoted for at least one year, or even two years, if they are found to be inappropriate or accountable.
之前大家熟知的一个免职、引咎辞职的官员是SARS期间的北京市长孟学农，当时上任三个月的他，被免去党内职务，并引咎辞职市长职务。
One of the officials known for his dismissal and resignation was Meng Xuenong, the mayor of Beijing during the SARS epidemic, who was sacked after three months in office and forced to resign as mayor.
起复后，2008年他又因山西溃坝事件再次被免去党内职务，并引咎辞职山西省长一职。
He was sacked again in 2008 for breaking a dam in Shanxi and resigned as head of Shanxi province.
值得注意的是，除非另有党纪政务处分，免职的官员一般会保留原先的职级待遇。
It should be noted that, except in the case of disciplinary action, dismissed officials generally retain their former rank entitlements.
比如孟学农，北京市长、山西省长都是正部级，此后他担任的中央直属机关工委副书记，仍为正部级。
For example, Meng Xuenong, mayor of Beijing and minister of Shanxi province, was a full-fledged minister.
相比组织处理，五种党纪处分的性质更严厉，影响期也相对更长。
Compared with the organization treatment, the five party disciplinary punishment nature is more severe, the influence period is also relatively longer.
如果被警告、严重警告或者撤销党内职务，不允许升职的时间，分别是一年、一年半以及两年。
If a person is warned, given a severe warning, or dismissed from a post within the party, the period for promotion is one year, one and a half years and two years, respectively.
若受到留党察看的处分，党内职务自然撤销。
If the punishment of staying on probation, Party posts are automatically revoked.
在恢复党员权利后的两年内，不允许恢复原职级或升职。
Restoration of rank or promotion shall not be permitted for a period of two years after the restoration of party members' rights.
最严重的党纪处分是开除党籍。
The most serious disciplinary measure is Party membership.
除了党员的问责方式之外，《中华人民共和国监察法》《公职人员政务处分暂行规定》还规定了对所有违法的监察对象的处分形式，即政务处分，包括警告、记过、记大过、降级、撤职、开除等。
In addition to the way Party members are held accountable, the Interim Provisions on Administrative Disposition of Public Officials of the Law of the People's Republic of China on the Supervision of Public Officials also stipulate the forms of punishment for all subjects who violate the law, namely, administrative sanctions, including warning, entry, recall, demotion, dismissal and dismissal.
“从重从快”2020年1月30日，湖北省纪委发出通知，提出了六个字，“从重从快查处”。
"From scratch" January 30, 2020, Hubei Province discipline committee issued a notice, put forward six words, "from the beginning to deal with fast."
通知中，省纪委明确了五种需从重从快查处的情形：“一是对于瞒报、谎报确诊、死亡、疑似病例的，坚决予以撤职乃至开除党籍、开除公职处分；二是对于擅离职守、临阵脱逃的，坚决予以撤职乃至开除党籍、开除公职处分；三是对于不担当、不落实、虚作为、假作为而造成严重后果或者不良社会影响的，坚决予以降职或者撤职乃至开除党籍、开除公职处分；四是对于贪污侵占、截留挪用防控专项资金及防护物资的，坚决予以开除党籍、开除公职处分；涉嫌职务犯罪的，移送司法机关依法处理；五是对于制造、散布、传播谣言等严重违反政治纪律政治规矩的，坚决予以撤职乃至开除党籍、开除公职处分。
"First, where a person conceals, falsely reports a diagnosis, dies or suspects a case, he shall be resolutely dismissed from his post or dismissed from office or dismissed from public office.
”同时，湖北省委常委、省纪委书记、省监委主任王立山在黄冈检查督导疫情防控工作时提出了五个“最严”：最严措施、最严作风、最严管理、最严监督、最严问责。
Meanwhile, Wang Lishan, secretary of the Huanggang Standing Committee, secretary of the provincial disciplinary committee and head of the provincial supervision and control commission, put forward five "most severe" measures: the strictest measures, the strictest style, the strictest management, the strictest supervision and the strictest accountability.
国内其他省也在疫情中，先后提出了类似的问责要求，比如“从严从重”。
Other provinces in the country have made similar demands for accountability, such as "heavier penalties."
这为各地的处理定下了基调。
This sets the tone for treatment everywhere.
毛昭晖指出，从严从重，是指对一些特殊的事态，如果其社会危害大、影响力大，以上限为查处标准。
Mao Zhaohui pointed out that aggravating circumstances refer to a number of special situations, if its social harm is large and influential, the above-mentioned limit is the standard of investigation and punishment.
问责中最严重的，是开除党籍、开除公职，也就是大家所知的“双开”。
The most serious aspect of accountability is the removal of party membership and dismissal from public office, known as "double-opening."
在湖北省已通报的问责中，一个典型“双开”案例在咸宁。
In Hubei Province has notified the accountability, a typical "two-way" case in Xianning.
咸宁市代管的赤壁市医疗保障局干部、驻赵李桥镇伴旗山村第一书记罗玉钦，与该村党支部书记、村委会主任雷陆平去村民家中聚餐，之后与该村党支部副书记、预备党员以及部分村民聚众赌博。
Xianning City escrow of Chibi City Medical Security Bureau cadres, Zhao Liqiao Town Flag Village First Secretary Luo Yuqin, and the village party branch secretary, village committee director Lei Lupin went to the villagers' home for dinner, after which he joined the deputy secretary, reserve members and some villagers of the village party branch.
此外还涉及擅自脱岗、擅离职守，违规驾驶工作车辆载非工作人员或携带亲属乘坐工作车辆出城，导致人员非正常流动等问题。
It also involves such issues as unauthorized release from work, absence without leave, illegal driving of working vehicles carrying non-staff members or relatives out of the city in working vehicles, resulting in irregular movements of persons.
罗玉钦被双开，雷陆平被开除党籍，并被罢免村委会主任职务。
Luo Yuqin was opened, Lei Lu Ping was dismissed from the party, and dismissed from the post of village committee director.
其他省也曾在疫情期间处理过类似的情形，干部在防控期间擅离职守、聚众赌博，或许因为案件细节上的差别，干部并未被双开。
Other provinces have dealt with similar cases during the epidemic, with cadres leaving their posts without permission and gambling, perhaps because of differences in case details.
比如天津市武清区前沙坨村党支部书记、村委会主任被撤销党内职务，并被责令辞去村委会主任职务。
For example, the secretary of the former Shatuo village Party branch and the director of the village committee in Wuqing district of Tianjin were dismissed from their posts and ordered to resign as village committee directors.
河南省也公布过“双开”典型。
Henan Province has also published the "double-open" model.
郑州市航空港经济综合实验区经济发展局统计处副处长李强疫情防控期间聚众饮酒、酒后驾车，返回居住小区时，拒绝配合疫情防控人员检查，并与三名亲属一同殴打该工作人员。
When Li Qiang, deputy director of the Statistics Department of the Economic Development Bureau of Zhengzhou Airport Economic Comprehensive Experimental Area, gathered people to drink and drive while returning to his residential area during the prevention and control period, refused to cooperate with the epidemic prevention and control personnel inspection, and together with three relatives beat the staff member.
其被双开，并和参与殴打的其他三人由公安机关依法拘留。
He was detained in accordance with the law by the public security organs, together with three other persons involved in the assault.
在各省通报中较为常见的典型案例，是临阵脱逃。
A typical case that is more common in provincial notifications is that of flight.
比如湖北省襄阳市经济责任审计局审计科一级科员周骏，在接到单位“每天要向单位和社区报到”通知要求后，拒不执行。
For example, Zhou Jun, a member of the audit section of Xiangyang Economic Responsibility Audit Bureau in Hubei Province, refused to carry out the notice requirement that he report to his unit and community every day.
而在社区安排其第二天与社区干部一起到某小区送物品后，他得知该小区有新冠肺炎疑似病例，担心自身被病毒感染，心生畏怯，拒不执行这一任务，也不参与社区防控工作。
When the community arranged for him to go with community officials to deliver goods to a community the following day, he learned that the neighbourhood had suspected cases of pneumonia, feared for his own infection, was afraid, refused to carry out this task and was not involved in community control.
另外，他还从家属院搬离，在酒店居住，不曾汇报去向，也多日不汇报身体状况。
In addition, he moved from his family home, stayed in a hotel, did not report his whereabouts and did not report his medical condition for many days.
最终，被开除党籍，并由一级科员降为二级科员。
In the end, was expelled from the party, and from the first-level officers to second-level officers.
类似的情况也出现在辽宁，但处理稍轻微一些。
A similar situation occurred in Liaoning, but it was treated slightly less.
沈阳市铁西区市场监督管理局笃工市场监督管理所工作人员蒋天，在负责人多次电话、微信通知其上班的情况下，不接电话、不回微信，虚开病情诊断书，拒不上班。
Jiang Tian, a staff member of the Shenzhen Municipal Bureau of Market Supervision and Administration of Tiexi District of Shenyang, refused to answer the phone, reply to letters, make false medical certificate and refuse to go to work.
受留党察看一年、政务撤职处分，由二级主任科员降为三级主任科员。
Remain under probation for one year, the government affairs dismissal, from the second director to the third-level director.
另一种在通报中较多见的典型案例是瞒报。
Another typical case that is more commonly reported is underreporting.
比如咸宁市通城县实验小学副校长张新甫与妻子从武汉返回，1月22日一同为父亲违规操办十余桌寿宴，宴请超百人，并收受了2000元礼金。
For example, Zhang Xinfu, vice-principal of Tongcheng County Experimental Primary School in Xiangning, returned with his wife from Wuhan. On January 22, he jointly hosted a dozen birthday parties for his father, entertained more than 100 people and received a 2,000-yuan gift.
之后陪妻子在医院诊疗，隐瞒武汉接触史，妻子确诊后，医院20名医护人员及多名干部群众被隔离观察。
Afterwards accompanied the wife in the hospital diagnosis, concealing Wuhan contact history, the hospital after the diagnosis of 20 medical personnel and a number of cadres were isolated observation.
在审查期间，张新甫也拒不配合。
During the period under review, Zhang also refused to cooperate.
之后，被给予开除党籍处分，并与妻子就涉嫌违法问题被移送公安机关依法进行处理。
Subsequently, was given a dismissal of party membership, and with his wife on the suspected violation of the law was transferred to the public security organs for treatment.
这种情况也多见于湖北省外，不过在官方通报中，或许因为情节有所区别，处分也比湖北省的略轻一些。
The situation is also common outside Hubei province, although in the official notice, perhaps because of the differences in circumstances, punishment is also slightly lighter than in Hubei Province.
比如天津一所小学副校长隐瞒不报儿子自武汉返回的情况，被给予撤销党内职务、政务撤职处分；宁夏石嘴山市一街道党支部副书记的女儿从武汉返回家中，未如实报告，被给予党内警告处分。
For example, a vice-principal of a primary school in Tianjin who conceals not to report the return of his son from Wuhan was given dismissal from his post in the Party and dismissal from office.
还有一类较多见的典型案例是不落实、虚作为、假作为。
There is also a more typical case of non-implementation, virtual act, false act.
比如湖北省黄石市枫林镇水源村有一批武汉返乡人员被留院观察，其中有人后来被确诊，但在此期间，124名返乡人员连续三天上报的体温信息无任何变化，后来确诊的患者体温上报信息也始终正常。
For example, in Fenglin village, Huangshi City, Hubei Province, a group of Wuhan returnees were taken into custody for observation, some of whom were later diagnosed. During this period, 124 returnees reported no change in their temperature information for three consecutive days, and the temperature information of patients later confirmed was always normal.
经查，是村委会副主任胡庆良未如实填写。
After investigation, is the village committee vice-director Hu Qingliang did not fill in truthfully.
他被给予留党察看一年处分，并罢免了水源村委会副主任职务。
He was given a year's probation and dismissed as deputy director of the village committee on water.
根据各地公开的数据，问责中处分所占比例有所不同。
According to publicly available data, the share of sanctions in accountability varies.
湖北省处分比例较高的城市是咸宁、潜江。
The cities with higher rate of disposal in Hubei Province are Xianning and Qianjiang.
咸宁市截至2月23日问责399人，其中处分135人，占比33.3％。
As of February 23, Xiangning had accounted for 399 people, of whom 135, or 33.3 per cent, had been disciplined.
潜江市截至2月28日问责114人，其中处分38人，占比33.3％。
As of February 28, 114 people had been held accountable in the city of Qianjiang, of whom 38, or 33.3 percent, had been disciplined.
湖北省外的已有公开数据则比他们低一些。
Open data available outside Hubei province are somewhat lower.
比如甘肃省，截至2月24日，共处理976人，其中处分170人，占比17.4％。
In Gansu Province, for example, as at 24 February, a total of 976 persons had been treated, of whom 170, or 17.4 per cent, had been disposed of.
谁被问责根据《中国新闻周刊》的梳理，在各地被通报的典型案例中，凡涉及防控中的职务行为，几类人群最为常见。
Who is Accountability According to China News Weekly, of the typical cases reported around the world, several groups are the most common when it comes to professional conduct in prevention and control.
第一种是基层干部，包括村支书、居委会主任、街道办主任等；第二种是医院这类疫情最直接相关单位的相关人员；第三种则是应负领导责任的一批官员。
The first is grass-roots cadres, including village support letters, neighborhood committee directors, street office directors, etc.; the second is the most directly related to the hospital of this type of epidemic; the third is a group of officials responsible for leadership.
第一种人群前述已有不少例子，在通报中，这类人员的占比也最高。
For the first group, there are already many examples mentioned above, with the highest proportion of such persons in the notification.
第二种在湖北省内外的通报中也不少见。
The second is not uncommon in and around Hubei province.
比如四川省西南石油大学南充校区医院副院长在明知自己的两名亲戚已经出现发热症状和肺炎影像学特征，未报疾控中心，先后将两人收进校区医院治疗。
For example, the Vice-Dean of Nanchong University Hospital, Southwest Sichuan Province, admitted the two men to a school district hospital without reporting to the CDC, knowing that two of their relatives had developed fever and pneumonia imaging features.
后来，其中一人被确诊为新冠肺炎。
Later, one of them was diagnosed with pneumonia.
而该院院长也不听取其他医护人员意见，违规同意收治，且未及时报告情况，引发可能传播疫情的重大风险，致使多名医护人员被隔离观察。
The hospital director did not listen to other medical staff, consent to treatment in violation of regulations, and did not report the situation in a timely manner, leading to a major risk of spreading the epidemic, resulting in medical staff being watched in isolation.
之后，副院长被免职，解除聘用关系；院长受到党内严重警告处分，被免职。
Subsequently, the Vice-President was dismissed and the employment relationship was dissolved; the President was severely reprimanded by the party and dismissed.
而第三种常见人群，是应负领导责任的官员，又可以细分为卫健系统相关负责人，以及市县区或其他单位的相关负责人。
The third common group is the officials responsible for leadership, which can be broken down into those responsible for the health system and those in charge of the municipal district or other units.
疫情中，不止一地的卫健系统受到过问责。
More than one health system in more than one location has been blamed for the outbreak.
引发热议的“武汉女子监狱刑满释放的新冠肺炎确诊人员离汉抵京”事件，在北京市公布的问责处理中，决定对北京市疾控中心办公室主任于建平进行诫勉，给予北京市疾控中心办公室副主任钱海坤警告处分。
"Wuhan women's prison released from prison after the new crown pneumonia confirmed the arrival of personnel from the Han Beijing," in the accountability issued by Beijing, the decision to Beijing CDC Office Director Yu Jianping, the director of the Beijing CDC Office, Qian Haikun warned disciplinary action.
而早在1月底，邻近的河北省也曾通报，邯郸市疾控中心主任董伯森因履职不力受到停职处理。
As early as the end of January, neighboring Hebei province reported that Dong Bosen, director of the CDC in Handan, had been suspended for failing to perform his duties.
对市县区负责人的处理，在湖北省外的通报中，最著名的恐怕是大理市。
In Hubei Province, the most famous notice of the handling of municipal and county officials is probably marble.
因扣押防疫口罩，大理市委书记被免职，并给予党内严重警告处分，大理市长与一名副市长被给予撤销党内职务，政务撤职处分。
The mayor of Dali and a deputy mayor were given dismissal from their posts and dismissed from their posts after the seizure of a face mask and given severe warning within the party.
除了这样的特殊案件，对市县区相关负责人的处理，多集中于疫情较为严重地区。
In addition to such special cases, the treatment of the relevant municipal and county officials, mostly concentrated in the more serious epidemic areas.
比如黑龙江省，被媒体称为湖北之外“死亡率、重症率双高”的省份，至少有7名处级干部被免职，包括哈尔滨市香坊区区长，五常市长，齐齐哈尔建华区委书记，鸡西市恒山区区委书记、副区长、区卫健局局长，哈尔滨双鸭山友谊县副县长、县卫健局局长，伊春市金林区区委书记等。
In Heilongjiang Province, for example, where the media called it "death rate and serious disease rate" outside Hubei province, at least seven branch officials were dismissed, including Harbin Xiangfang Prefecture, Five Permanent Mayors, Qiqihar Jianhua District Secretary, Jixi Hengshan District Committee Secretary, Vice-Prefect, District Health Secretary, Harbin Shuangyashan Friendship County Deputy County Director, County Health Secretary, Yichun Golden Forest District Secretary, etc.
再如浙江省温州市的疫情压力较大，一度是湖北省外确诊人数最多的城市。
As the Wenzhou, Zhejiang Province, the more severe epidemic pressure, once outside Hubei Province, the most confirmed city.
因出现防控漏洞，温州市下辖的乐清市卫健局局长以及疾控中心主任均被免职，乐清市分管副市长受到党内严重警告处分。
As a result of control loopholes, Wenzhou under the jurisdiction of the Director of Yueqing City Health and the Director of the CDC were dismissed, Yueqing deputy mayor was severely warned within the party.
同理，还有四川省甘孜州道孚县，是四川省成都市之外，确诊病例最多的县。
Similarly, Dawu County, Ganzi Prefecture, Sichuan Province, is the county with the highest number of confirmed cases outside Chengdu, Sichuan Province.
县统战部长和公安局长都被党纪立案审查。
County generals and chiefs of public security have been registered for review.
而对其他单位负责人的处理，目前最受关注的是监狱系统。
At present, the prison system is the most concerned with the treatment of the heads of other units.
此次疫情中，已有湖北、浙江、山东这三省的五个监狱发生了罪犯感染疫情，截至2月25日，共确诊病例555例，疑似19例，重症4例。
Five prisons in Hubei, Zhejiang and Shandong provinces have been affected by the outbreak, with 555 confirmed cases, 19 suspected cases and 4 severe cases reported as of February 25.
除本文开头所述的湖北司法系统之外，山东省司法厅党委书记等八名领导干部被免职，浙江省涉事监狱的监狱长和政委也被免职。
In addition to the Hubei judicial system mentioned at the beginning of this article, eight leading cadres, including the party secretary of the Shandong Provincial Judicial Bureau, were dismissed, as were the prison directors and political commissars of the concerned prisons in Zhejiang Province.
有一些地市在进行通报时，公开了在此次疫情防控工作中，问责的处级及以上干部的人数。
In some municipalities, the number of officials at or above the level of accountability for the prevention and control of the epidemic was disclosed during the briefing.
比如最受关注的武汉市，在2月22日的通报中指出，武汉市纪检监察机关共问责处理630多人，其中涉及处级及处级以上干部130多名。
In Wuhan, for example, the city's disciplinary watchdog handled more than 630 people, including more than 130 officials at or above the department level, according to a February 22 notice.
这个比例在国内已公开的数据中较高。
This percentage is higher in the country's publicly available data.
陕西省西安市在2月28日透露了问责数据，他们先后追责问责338人，其中，县处级干部43人。
The city of Xian, Shaanxi province, revealed accountability figures on Feb. 28, when it questioned 338 people, 43 of whom were county-level cadres.
不难看出，当前疫情防控中的问责有着高压态势。
It is not difficult to see the current epidemic in the prevention and control of accountability has a high-pressure posture.
也是在此过程中，至少两位接受《中国新闻周刊》采访的基层纪委人员提到了“审慎问责”的概念。
Also in the process, at least two junior disciplinary committee members interviewed by China News Weekly referred to the concept of "prudential accountability."
前述基层监察委干部告诉《中国新闻周刊》，他所在的地市，对多数基层干部以批评教育为主，因为这是“最需要基层干部冲锋陷阵的时候”，不能一棍子打死。
The aforementioned cadres told China News Weekly that in his city, criticism and education were the main focus of most cadres at the grass-roots level, as this was the "time when grassroots cadres were most needed" and could not be bludgeoned.
杭州市纪委常务副书记、监委副主任朱华在接受采访时表示，“疫情防控一环扣一环，管理中难免出现疏漏或者不足，特别是基层一线党员干部很辛苦，问责处理一定要审慎稳妥。
"The prevention and control of the epidemic is one link in a chain," Zhu Hua, deputy secretary of the disciplinary committee and deputy director of the committee, said in an interview.
”他表示，杭州市纪检监察机关对于查证党员干部主观上积极努力，没有怠工推诿或者谋取私利等行为，适度容错免责或减责。
He said the city's disciplinary inspection and supervision authorities have made no effort to verify the subjective well-being of party officials and have not shirked their duties or sought private gain.
北京大学廉政建设研究中心副主任庄德水告诉《中国新闻周刊》，这就要求客观、实事求是的问责，以免出现误伤的情况，需要平衡。
Zhuang Deshui, deputy director of Peking University's Center for Construction Integrity, told China News Weekly that this required objective and realistic accountability to avoid accidental injury and the need for balance.
尤其要避免领导意志化的倾向，也就是说，不能因为领导重视而加重处罚，或者因为社会舆情关注而加重处罚。
In particular, efforts should be made to avoid the tendency of the will of the leadership to impose heavier penalties because of the importance attached by the leadership or because of the concern of public opinion.
“还是要实事求是、依法依规，更精准的利用执纪执法的手段，才能取信于社会公众，让被处分处罚的党员干部心服口服。
"Only by seeking truth from the facts and following the rules according to the law and using the means of enforcing the law more accurately can we win the trust of the public and satisfy the people of the Party who have been disciplined.
”毛昭晖也指出，当前，各地方在针对防控期间的问责时，在操作过程中存在多样性，有的地方很严，有的地方则会松一些。
Mr Mao also points out that there is currently a great deal of diversity in the way places operate - sometimes tightly, sometimes loosely - when it comes to accountability during prevention and control.
他认为，中纪委、国家监察委，或者地方上的纪委监委，应出台一个针对防控期间问责的指导性意见，使得各地可以进一步的依规监督。
In his view, the CPC, the National Supervisory Committee, or the local JCMB, should issue a guidance note on accountability during prevention and control, allowing for further compliance monitoring.
值班编辑：俞杨封面报道《新冠病毒——我们要付出多大代价》《围城之战——我们如何过关》《武汉攻坚——我们如何与疫情赛跑》《防控之辨——我们怎样科学应对》点击下图，一键下单教你赚35000元+1%佣金点击“阅读原文”了解更多详情。
On duty editor: Yu Yang cover story "New Crown Virus - How we pay" "The War of Siege - How we pass" "Wuhan Jianzheng - How we race against the epidemic" Click on the figure below to teach you how to earn 35,000 yuan + 1% commission.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
官员如何被问责？疫情防控外公众最关切。
How officials are held accountable? The public is most concerned about the disease outside its control.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "时事政治";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "中国新闻周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "官员如何被问责？疫情防控外公众最关切";。
var msg _ title = & quot; How was the official held accountable? The public was most concerned about and at least included in the epidemic.
var msg_desc = "实事求是​";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Be honest and call it quot;;
var title ="中国新闻周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by China News & quot;
