在人间丨乡村防疫观察：没有什么比串门更诡异的了。
Observation in the World into the Village: Nothing is more bizarre than a visit to a door.
张然。
Zhang Ran.
在人间living                      。
Living on earth.
在人间living。
Living on earth.
用冷静的叙述抵抗冰冷 | 凤凰网在人间工作室出品。
Resist cold & # # 124; & # 45; Order of the Phoenix with a sober narrative.
凤凰新闻客户端 凤凰网在人间工作室出品打开凤凰新闻客户端，搜索「在人间」并关注村里说缺志愿者。
Phoenix News client-side Phoenix net in the world studio to open Phoenix News client, search "in the world" and pay attention to the village said lack of volunteers.
我犹豫了会儿，决定去。
I hesitated for a moment and decided to go.
我很好奇，他们是怎么进行村里的拦堵工作的。
I was curious how they managed to stop the work in the village.
这天正月十六，天气晴朗，钟南山口中的第二个14天隔离期刚刚开始，乡里开始实行新的防控措施。
On the 16th of the first month, when the weather was clear and the second 14-day quarantine period in Zhong Nan Shan had just begun, new control measures were introduced in the countryside.
早上雾很大。
It's foggy in the morning.
我很久没看见这么大的雾了。
I haven't seen such a big fog for a long time.
出发前我戴了两层一次性医用口罩，太阳帽和近视眼镜。
Before I left, I wore two disposable medical masks, sunhats and nearsighted glasses.
妈妈给我找了一副薄手套，我也戴上了。
My mother found me a pair of thin gloves and I put them on.
口罩是我在年前买的。
I bought the mask years ago.
1月22日，我感到疫情严重，跑了几家药店，买到五个医用白色棉布口罩，五块钱一只。
On January 22, feeling the epidemic, I went to several pharmacies and bought five medical white cotton masks, one for five dollars.
但都说没用。
But it doesn't work.
23日晚上又去药房，药房说口罩卖完了，隔壁超市有，我又去超市，买了30个。
23 evening went to the pharmacy, the pharmacy said that the mask sold out, the supermarket next door, I went to the supermarket, bought 30.
24日，新闻中感染者数字攀升，早上离开安庆市区前，我跑到超市，店里只剩下13包。
24, the number of infected people in the news climbed, the morning before leaving Anqing City, I ran to the supermarket, only 13 bags left.
我心想，给别人也留一点，就买了10包，共100只，100块钱。
I thought to myself, give others also a little, bought 10 packages, 100 altogether, 100 dollars.
这么多口罩四、五个人用。
So many masks for four or five people.
不出门还好，老出门，就不够用了。
Don't go out is good, always go out, it is not enough.
我带妈妈去医院那天一下子就用了两三包，现在只剩下四包。
I used two or three packs the day I took my mother to the hospital. Now there are only four bags left.
回过头来说这天。
Back to that day.
我爬上江堤，江堤上没什么人，偶尔有一辆小汽车和三轮车经过，车上的人也戴着口罩。
I climbed the river bank. There was no one on the bank. Occasionally a car and tricycle passed, and the people on it were wearing masks.
雾很大。
It's foggy.
可见距离不过5米。
Visible distance is no more than 5 meters.
村部在我的小学对面。
The village department is opposite my elementary school.
小学现在变成了一家生态环境相关的公司。
Elementary school is now an eco-related company.
里面建筑和布局没啥变化，但是招牌变了。
There was little change in the building and layout, but the sign changed.
村子位于三市交界处，沿江而建。
The village lies at the junction of three cities and is built along the river.
距离市区开车1个小时左右。
About an hour's drive from downtown.
江堤是通向市区的主要道路。
The river bank is the main road to the city.
现在，村部卡点是村里唯一的出口。
The village checkpoint is now the only exit in the village.
其它从村民家通向江堤的路都被封死，封路的方法同很多乡村一样简单粗暴，挖掘机挖土堵住了路口。
Other roads leading from the villagers' homes to the river embankment were blocked in the same way as in many villages. Excavators dug earth to block the intersection.
村里目前的防控工作主要是在不同位置设卡，安排人每天守着卡点，登记出入人员，劝返来村或出村人员，给进村人员测量体温，在村里宣传防疫信息。
The current control efforts in the villages consist mainly of setting up checkpoints at different locations, arranging daily check-points, registering people entering and leaving the village, persuading people to return to the village or from the village to take temperature measurements and disseminating information on vaccination in the village.
村里的卡点设在小学对面的小卖部里。
The village checkpoint is located in the commissary opposite the primary school.
小卖部和学校的墙之间用一条红色的布拉起，算是临时的屏障。
Between the commissary and the school walls was a temporary barrier, made up of a red cloth.
这屏障若是人想要冲过去，也很简单。
The barrier is simple if one wants to go through it.
但在这里，屏障本身的功能不大，重要的是它起到的心理震慑作用。
But here, the function of the barrier itself is not very large, the important thing is that it acts as a psychological deterrent.
村部在小卖部的门口摆了一条长桌。
The village department set up a long table in front of the commissary.
长桌上放着出入登记簿和一些通行证、文件等，一瓶免洗消毒洗手液，两包纸巾。
On the long table were the entry and exit register, some passes, papers, etc., a bottle of disinfectant hand sanitizer, two paper towels.
小卖部里的货柜都被挪到最里面靠墙，透明玻璃柜下面有圆规、作业本、卷笔刀、橡皮等，但都粘着灰，那灰粘了很多年没人打扫，看着有点油腻的样子。
Containers in the commissary were moved to the innermost wall. There were compasses, worksheets, pencil sharpeners, erasers, etc. under transparent glass cabinets, but they all stuck to ashes that had not been cleaned for years and looked a little greasy.
玻璃柜上放着一台身体检测仪，连着一只测量体温的“枪”，旁边是一只红色喇叭。
On the glass case is a body detector attached to a "gun" to measure body temperature, next to a red trumpet.
身体检测仪除了测体温，还能测血压、血氧等简单身体指标。
In addition to body temperature measurement instrument, but also can measure blood pressure, blood oxygen and other simple physical indicators.
口罩是村里唯一的防护设备。
Masks are the only protective equipment in the village.
一个戴口罩的女生坐在那儿，她是村妇联主任。
A girl wearing a mask sat there. She was the director of the village women's federation.
我们是小学校友，她比我小一岁。
We are primary school alumni. She is a year younger than me.
她让我坐下来，跟我说怎么登记，要做什么。
She asked me to sit down and tell me how to register and what to do.
大致就是，遇到有人想进来，不放进来，除非有通行证；遇到想出去的人，问他们为什么出去，尽量劝返。
It's like meeting someone who wants to come in, not letting them in unless they have a pass. If you meet someone who wants to go out, ask them why they went out and try to persuade them to return.
总之，就是严进严出。
In a word, it's strict.
乡里给村里发了上班通行证和临时出入证。
Villages were issued with work passes and temporary passes.
上班通行证有效期是9天，需要当事人所在的公司开具一份工作证明，盖好章，再交给村委，村委填好相应信息再发上班通行证，有了上班通行证，就可以在9天内往返村里，但如果超过9天又要重新办理。
The work permit is valid for 9 days and requires the company of the party concerned to issue a work certificate, seal it and hand it over to the village committee, who then issues a work pass after completing the corresponding information and, with a work pass, can travel to and from the village within nine days, but reapply if it exceeds nine days.
临时出入证，有效期3天，3天内只能往返一次，用于非上班者临时出村。
Temporary grounds passes will be valid for three days and can be used only once in three days for temporary absences from work.
我的任务是在卡点登记出入人员，以及测体温。
My job is to check in and out at the checkpoint and take my temperature.
村部要求我们详细记录出入村的人姓名、身份证号码、电话号码、为什么出去或者进来，从哪里到哪里，具体到家庭住址。
The village department asked us to keep a detailed record of the names, identification numbers, telephone numbers, why we went out or came in, where and where, with specific reference to the address of the family.
在此之前，村里实施的是另一套管理方法。
Prior to that, the village had adopted a different system of management.
他们给村民发出入证，有了出入证就能自由进出。
They will be issued with passes for villagers and will be able to enter and leave freely.
不过现在出入证无效了。
But now the pass is invalid.
尽管依然有人拿着出入证过来，或者询问能不能办出入证。
Even though some people still come with passes, or ask if they can get a pass.
规定每天变，谁也不知道现在的通行证又能持续到哪天。
The rules change from day to day, and no one knows how long the current pass will last.
除了我和那个女生，又来了四五个男人，两个是乡里派来的工作人员，大约是来监督的。
In addition to me and the girl, four or five more men arrived, two of whom were from the country, and came about to supervise them.
还有三个，分别是书记和两个副书记。
There are three secretaries and two deputy secretaries.
大家都戴着口罩。
Everyone was wearing masks.
路刚封的时候，村民们极其不满。
When Luke was sealed, the villagers were very dissatisfied.
看到挖掘机正在挖土堵住村里唯一的出口，人们都聚集观看，有些人走上去争论，但无效。
Seeing the excavators digging up the earth to block the only entrance to the village, people gathered to watch, and some people went up to argue, but to no avail.
书记站在江堤上俯瞰挖掘机和人们。
The clerk stood on the bank overlooking the excavators and the people.
他看到我在拍摄，说拍了不要上传到网上。
He saw me filming and he said don't upload it to the internet.
前几天，一个小伙子，开车想要去市区取东西。
A few days ago, a young man, driving want to go downtown to pick up things.
书记拦住他，说出去找死啊。
The clerk stopped him and said he wanted to die.
下午，书记开车经过小伙子家门口时，小伙子开出卡车挡住书记的路，书记把警察喊来了。
In the afternoon, as the clerk was driving past the boy's house, the young man got out of the truck and stopped the secretary, who called the police.
一大群人围观。
A large crowd surrounded.
小伙子气愤不已，书记也气愤。
The young man was angry, and the clerk was angry.
最后警察把人群劝走。
At last the police persuaded the crowd away.
那天警察和书记走后，村民们很愤怒，聚在一起回忆起了旧事。
When the police and the secretary left that day, the villagers got angry and got together to remember the past.
他们说，有次村干部为了收田，如何把刚刚成熟的玉米毁掉。
They say that once village cadre in order to collect farmland, how to destroy just mature corn.
一个阿姨很激愤，她不断说着自己如何被人强迫架走。
An aunt was furious. She kept talking about how she had been forced to walk away.
书记还说，你们以为这里安全，这里很不安全。
You think it's safe here. It's not safe here, 'the secretary said.
直至2月25日，我们市确诊83例，55例治愈，0死亡。
Up to February 25, our city confirmed 83 cases, 55 cases cured, 0 deaths.
暂无增量。
No increment.
目前我所知道的，村里是零感染。
So far as I know, there is zero infection in the village.
这几年，村里的小学关闭，因为没有学生，学生都去市区读书了。
In recent years, the village primary school closed, because there are no students, students went to the city to study.
年轻人都在外地或者市区打工，平时不在家，村里剩下的多是老人。
Young people are working outside the city or in the city, usually not at home, the village is mostly left of the elderly.
疫情发生时，人们同往常一样回来过年，以为四五天后就该去上班了。
When the outbreak occurred, people came back as usual for the New Year, thinking that it was time to go to work in four or five days.
但没想到，一直滞留家中。
But I didn't expect to stay at home.
村里人互相都认识，谁也不觉得病毒会到这个地方。
Everyone in the village knew each other and no one thought the virus would come to this place.
村里的老人和中年人都没有意识到疫情的严重性。
Neither the elderly nor the middle-aged in the village were aware of the severity of the outbreak.
这种时候没有什么比农村回乡邻居间的串门更诡异的了。
Nothing can be more quirky at this time than a visit between neighbours in the countryside.
你还不能说別串门了。
You can't say stop by.
别人来了不能不接待，要请人家吃饭，喝茶，人家有可能会拒绝，说站会儿就走，这拒绝里分不清是恐惧还是客气，这邀请里也分不清是客套多一点还是热情多一点。
If someone comes and asks for a meal or tea, they may refuse, say to leave later. This is a refusal to distinguish between fear and politeness, and a little more civility or warmth in the invitation.
反正在疫情里，他们总还要把那点人与人之间的规矩贯彻到底。
In any case, in the epidemic, they will always have to the end of the rules between people.
我爸爸此前一直不戴口罩，总爱出门。
My father used to wear no mask and always went out.
我每天跟他争吵。
I argue with him every day.
他是慢慢感知到疫情的严重性的。
He was slowly awakening to the seriousness of the outbreak.
正月初二那天，我妈妈本想去上班，我劝了一整天，无效。
On the second day of the first month, my mother wanted to go to work.
那天晚上，她收到老板通知，餐厅暂停营业。
That night, she was informed by her boss that the restaurant was closed.
当晚，我妈妈发烧39.2度。
That night, my mother had a fever of 39.2 degrees.
但是爸妈瞒着我和弟弟。
But Mom and Dad kept it from me and my brother.
直到第二天傍晚，我让村医给她量体温，39.9度，才知道她已经高烧。
The next evening, I asked the village doctor to take her temperature, 39.9 degrees, only to know that she had a high fever.
马上决定带她去医院检测。
It was decided to take her to the hospital for tests.
当时村里已经开始要求村医每天上午在村卫生所上班，排查发热病人，遇到发热病人一律要求去发热门诊。
By then, the village doctor had been required to work in the village clinic every morning to check on febrile patients and to go to the fever clinic whenever they encountered a fever.
村医不敢治疗她，哪怕降温措施也不能采取。
The village doctor was afraid to treat her, not even to cool down.
再到后来，卫生所被关闭，村医也需要在卡口值班。
Later, the clinic was closed and the village doctor had to be on duty at the checkpoint.
我带妈妈去了市里排第二的医院的发热门诊。
I took my mother to the fever clinic at the No. 2 hospital in the city.
考虑到市里唯一的一家定点医院人会很多，而且那时我们市也有不少从武汉回来的人，已有感染案例，他们被集中在定点医院治疗，易发生交叉感染。
Considering that the only designated hospital in the city will be many, and at that time our city has a lot of people back from Wuhan, there have been cases of infection, they are concentrated in designated hospitals, prone to cross-infection.
晚上医院没有什么人。
There were few people in the hospital at night.
刚进门就看到门诊挂号处放着牌子，写着发热门诊。
As soon as I entered, I saw a sign in the outpatient registration office with a fever clinic.
我们循着箭头找到发热门诊处。
We followed the arrows to the fever clinic.
那里有个护士坐在一张临时设的桌子前接待病人，大厅的角落里有个医院工作人员坐着在挂水。
There was a nurse sitting at a makeshift table to receive patients, and in the corner of the hall a hospital attendant sat hanging water.
护士只简单戴着一只一次性口罩，我还看到一个没有戴口罩的医护人员走过去。
The nurse simply wore a disposable mask, and I saw a paramedic walk past without a mask.
先量体温，我妈体温39.4度。
Take your temperature first. My mother has 39.4 degrees.
护士让我带她上二楼发热门诊找医生。
The nurse asked me to take her to the fever clinic on the second floor.
诊室在二楼一角，楼梯在外，只有一位中年男医生穿着防护服，戴着口罩和护目镜。
The room was on the second floor in a corner, outside the stairs, and only a middle-aged male doctor was wearing protective clothing, masks and goggles.
这是我在这家医院看到的唯一一套防护服，但医生穿的很不舒服，没人时他会拿下护目镜。
This was the only suit I saw in this hospital, but the doctor was not comfortable and he would take the goggles off when no one was there.
有几个病人戴着口罩围在医生身边，大家互相看看，眼神凝重，都不说话，有人似乎在和医生争论什么。
Several patients wore masks around the doctor, and everyone looked at each other with heavy eyes and no words. Someone seemed to be arguing with the doctor.
医生的样子很慌乱，有种一个人被派来也不知道怎么办好，但又必须得做的无奈。
The doctor looked very confused, a kind of person was sent to do not know how to do well, but also had to do helpless.
有个女人戴着口罩，让我妈妈坐得离医生远一点。
A woman in a mask told my mother to sit away from the doctor.
血检，拍CT。
Blood test. CT.
我本以为可以直接检测核酸，但是去了才知道，根本无法确诊。
I thought it would be possible to test nucleic acids directly, but it turned out to be impossible to diagnose.
只能等待。
Only wait.
CT显示我妈妈肺部有感染，发热门诊的医生说是普通肺炎，直接给我们开住院单，让她在呼吸科住院。
CT showed my mother had an infection in her lungs, and the doctor at the fever clinic said it was common pneumonia. He gave us a hospitalization order and hospitalized her in the respiratory department.
但是去了后，呼吸科医生拒收，认为不能排除是新型冠状病毒感染。
But after going there, the respiratory doctor refused to accept the coronavirus infection and said it could not be ruled out.
医生说如果是以往，就是普通肺炎，但是现在，没有人敢担起责任，只是建议我妈妈住到感染科。
The doctors said that if it had been the case, it would have been pneumonia, but now, no one has taken the responsibility, just advised my mother to stay in the infection department.
那时，医院的医生大都被调到定点医院，或是支援武汉，只有一两个年轻医生在。
At that time, the hospital doctors were mostly transferred to designated hospitals, or support Wuhan, only one or two young doctors in.
突发的疫情让一切都变得魔幻。
The sudden outbreak of disease has made everything magical.
每个人都变成这场人祸中的承受者和受害者。
Everyone became the sufferer and victim of this man-made disaster.
一开始武汉疫情没有太多人知晓，但被曝光后，各地管理又走向另一个极端，任何发热者都是疑似，以致连正常的医疗都被打乱。
At first, the Wuhan epidemic was not widely known, but after the exposure, management went to the other extreme, any feverish people are suspected, even the normal medical treatment was disrupted.
人们每日生活在恐慌中。
People live in daily fear.
我所在的城市还不缺床位，但在武汉，没有床位的求助声不绝于耳。
My city has no shortage of beds, but in Wuhan, there are no beds for help.
考虑了两个小时，我决定让医生开药，带我妈回乡下自行隔离。
After thinking about it for two hours, I decided to ask the doctor to prescribe the medicine and take my mother back to the country to isolate herself.
三天后，我妈体温如果降下来，稳定，就可以继续居家隔离。
Three days later, if my mother's temperature drops and stabilizes, she can continue to live in isolation.
如果不能，就要送到感染科隔离。
If they can't, they're gonna be quarantined.
那三天，我很紧张，晚上无法入睡。
For those three days, I was too nervous to sleep at night.
一回家，我让我爸单独睡到别的房间，给我妈准备单独碗筷。
As soon as I got home, I asked my father to sleep alone in another room and prepare a separate bowl for my mother.
我们尽量不进入她的房间，进去必须戴口罩。
We tried not to go into her room. We had to wear a mask.
我也让她随时戴口罩，即使睡觉都戴上。
I also made her wear a mask at all times, even when she slept.
一开始，她吃不下饭，想呕吐。
At first, she couldn't eat and wanted to vomit.
我担心她没有抵抗力，让她喝维C泡腾片。
I was afraid she had no resistance, so let her drink vitamin C effervescent tablets.
我们每隔两个小时就给她测一次体温。
We take her temperature every two hours.
第三天，她的体温开始降到38度以下。
On the third day her temperature began to drop below 38 degrees.
第四天又降到37度以下。
The fourth day fell below 37 degrees.
之后保持稳定。
It remained stable thereafter.
这才逐渐转好。
It's getting better.
我们听说，有从武汉开车回来的人，被带走隔离。
We heard that some people who had driven back from Wuhan had been taken away and isolated.
我舅妈的妈妈因为感冒发烧直接被送到感染病房隔离。
My aunt's mother was taken directly to the infection ward with a cold and fever.
1月31日，村里开始封路设卡，人们进出都被严密把控。
On 31 January, the village began to block road gates and people were tightly controlled in and out.
联系我的说，现在基本没什么人进出。
Contact me and say, few people are coming in or out these days.
因此我预想这会是很闲的一天。
So I expect it will be a very idle day.
其实不然。
Not really.
晌午，雾气渐渐散去，太阳出来了。
By noon the fog had cleared away and the sun had come out.
不一会儿，出村的人陆陆续续来了。
In a few moments a trickle of people trickled in.
后来人越来越多。
There were more and more people.
村民们直接往小屋里涌。
The villagers poured straight into the hut.
多到有时小屋子里站满了人，有的人戴着口罩，有的人没戴口罩。
Sometimes the hut was full of people, some were wearing masks, others were not wearing masks.
遇到不戴口罩的人，书记就无奈大喊：爹爹哎（奶奶哎），你出来把口罩戴着啊！要是遇到实在没口罩也不知道自己戴口罩的老人家，他们就拿给他一只一次性口罩使用。
If you come out and wear a mask, if you don't know who you are wearing, they will give him a disposable mask.
进入第二个14天隔离期，开始面临着食物不够的问题。
After entering the second 14-day isolation period, he began to face the problem of insufficient food.
米快没了，菜也吃完了。
The rice was running out.
由于我们平时不住在村里，田地早已被征收或荒芜，我家就全靠村里亲邻送菜吃。
As we do not live in the village, the land has long been confiscated or deserted, my family rely on the village neighbors to deliver food.
这天想要出卡口的就有很多想出村买菜的村民。
This day wants to get out of the mouth of many villagers want to buy vegetables from the village.
村里说，如果村民想要出村买菜和食品，可以登记村民想买的必需物品，再统一购买。
The village said that if villagers want to go out to buy food and vegetables, they can register the villagers want to buy essential items, and then unified purchase.
比如有个男生要买鸡爪、辣椒，被村里人指出这不是必需品，比如我想买红糖、方便面，也不是必需品。
For example, a boy who wants to buy chicken claws and chili peppers is pointed out by the villagers as not a necessity, such as brown sugar, instant noodles or necessities.
鱼和肉可以算必需品。
Fish and meat are essential.
因为村里没有肉铺。
There is no meat shop in the village.
村里有小卖部，小卖部如果可以买到，就不算必需品。
There are canteens in the village. Commissaries are not essentials if they are available.
有个村民驮着液化气罐想出村灌气，不能走。
A villager carrying a gas canister tried to get out of the village and could not go.
他们让他把液化气灌留下，统一灌好，他再来取。
They told him to keep the liquefied gas and fill it up, and he came back to get it.
还有个女人带着女儿想要回城取尿不湿，取完之后再回村。
Another woman and her daughter wanted to go back to the city to get it wet and then go back to the village.
也不行。
Not at all.
凡是除上班之外的，要出村，且还要回来的，都不放行。
Those who want to leave the village except for work and return will not be released.
女人家里有很多尿不湿，如果临时去买新的，不是同一个牌子的，女儿又不能习惯。
Women have a lot of urine not wet, if temporary to buy a new, not the same brand, the daughter can not get used to.
她不知道怎么办。
She did not know what to do.
后来离开了。
Then he left.
还有一种人不用办通行证。
Another kind of person doesn't need a pass.
去外地上班不回来的，或者去市区居住不回来的。
Those who do not return from work or who do not return to the city.
村部的人也要统计，并让他们签字表明自己在疫情期间不会回村。
Village people were also counted and asked to sign that they would not return to their villages during the outbreak.
我舅舅带着两个孩子去了市区，因为他的孩子需要在网上上课。
My uncle went downtown with his two children because his children had to take classes online.
不仅出去麻烦，回到村里也不容易。
It is not only troublesome to go out but also difficult to return to the village.
有个男人前几天偷偷从村里跑出去了，现在他想回村，被卡在乡里的卡口，而通往市区的卡口也不让他通过，他被卡在中间，退不能，进也不能。
A man who had sneaked out of the village the other day wanted to go back to his village and was stuck in a hiccup in the countryside. He was refused passage through the gates leading to the city. He was stuck in the middle, unable to retreat or enter.
他老婆来到村里求情，请书记开通行证，书记很生气，说他什么时候偷偷跑出去的？他老婆求了半天，话都是从书记的角度说，讲到他们的工作多么不容易，都是为了村民好，回来要让老公跟书记道歉，诸如此类，书记听了很受用。
His wife came to the village and asked the secretary to open the laissez-passer, and the secretary was angry that he had sneaked out for a long time, all from the clerk's point of view, about how difficult their work was for the good of the villagers and to get his husband to apologize to the clerk, and so on.
虽然板着脸，但是最后还是开了通行证给她，他老公才得以回来。
Although the face, but finally opened a pass to her, his husband was able to come back.
但也有年轻小伙子不认同封路，下车就跟书记吵，国家规定了不能封路，你们凭什么封。
But there are also young men do not agree with the closure, get out of the car with the secretary, the state regulations can not block the road, you on what seal.
书记说，我们有上面的政策。
'We have the policy above, 'said the secretary.
小伙子愤然，引来很多人围观，小伙子站在拉起的红绳子一边，书记和副书记们站在红绳的另一边，双方都没有跨过或者钻过红绳。
The young man stood on the side of the red line, the secretary and the deputy secretaries were standing on the other side of the line. Neither side had crossed or drilled the red line.
村民们或远或近观看。
The villagers watched from afar or near.
书记坚持不放行，小伙子坚持不走。
The secretary would not let him go, and the young man insisted.
双方僵持不下。
The two sides were deadlocked.
很久之后，小伙子上车走了。
After a long time, the young man got on the bus and left.
村部一整天人都很多。
The village was crowded all day.
村民们很多人不识字，尤其是老人，也不熟悉怎么操作微信或者手机，办理通行证的过程曲折复杂。
Many villagers are illiterate, especially the elderly, and are not familiar with how to operate micro-letters or mobile phones. The process of getting a pass is complicated.
人们都在跟自己的公司打电话，让开工作证明。
People are calling their own companies to get proof of their jobs.
书记看到工作证明，就很开心地开具通行证。
Seeing the certificate of work, the secretary was happy to issue the pass.
书记说，只要单位给他们开证明就行，那就不是我的责任了，而是单位负责了。
The secretary said that as long as the unit issued a certificate to them, it is not my responsibility, but the unit responsible.
在我这，我就得负责。
In my case, I'm responsible.
一天里，乡里的书记和乡长都会轮流来把关。
During the day, the village secretary and the township chief would take turns to guard the gates.
上午乡里的书记先来，乡里的书记穿得更体面，斯斯文文。
In the morning the secretary of the country came first, and the secretary of the country dressed more decently and with more gentleness.
坐在小卖部里头，也不怎么说话。
Sitting in the buffet, he didn't talk much.
村里的书记坐在桌前亲自在给村民开通行证，有时村民问问题，就转头跟乡里的书记汇报一下。
The secretary of the village sat at the table and gave the villagers a pass. Sometimes the villagers asked questions and turned to the secretary of the village.
乡里的书记满意了，后来就走了。
The secretary of the country was satisfied and went away.
下午五点左右，乡长又来了。
Around five o'clock in the afternoon, the mayor returned.
跟乡长一起来的还有个年轻女人，对着登记簿一通指责。
The mayor was accompanied by a young woman, who accused the registrar.
书记只能连连说是。
The secretary can only say yes.
最初村里还有人打麻将，后来也不怎么被允许。
People in the village also played Mahjong at first and were not allowed to play it later.
前几天，我弟弟去河边钓鱼。
The other day, my brother went fishing by the river.
看到两个人在江边钓鱼，一辆警车过来，没收了他们的鱼竿，人也被警车带走了。
Two men were seen fishing along the river, a police car came by, confiscated their fishing poles, and people were taken away by police cars.
我弟弟问为什么不能钓鱼，警察没有告诉他。
My brother asked why he couldn't go fishing, but the police didn't tell him.
天气好的时候，人们出来晒太阳，但都不会走远。
When the weather is fine, people come out to bask in the sun, but they don't go far.
天气不好的时候，都各自窝在家里不出门。
When the weather is bad, we all stay at home.
好在农村地方大，倦了还能在院子里走一走。
Fortunately, the large rural areas, tired can also walk in the yard.
我爸爸每天坐在院子里，借着邻居的Wi-Fi，刷抖音和新闻，一边感叹什么时候才能结束。
My dad sits in the yard every day, swearing out the neighbors' Wi-Fi, squeaking and news, wondering when it's over.
村民聊天的话题已经被疫情占领，所有人都意识到自己的生活彻底被疫情打乱了，他们不能出去打工，就不能挣钱，作为普通百姓，很是焦虑。
The topic of the villagers had been occupied by the epidemic, everyone realized that their lives had been completely disrupted by the epidemic, they could not go out to work, they could not earn money, as ordinary people, very anxious.
天气越来越好，很快距离新年已经一个月了。
It's getting better and better. It's been a month since the new year.
院子里都是阳光，衣服一层层少了。
There was sunshine in the yard and there were fewer layers of clothes.
第二个14天隔离期也已经结束。
The second 14-day isolation period has also ended.
2月24日，住在市区的邻居终于回村，说市区的路障都清除了。
On February 24, neighbours living in the city finally returned to the village and said that the barricades in the city had been cleared.
邻居是爸爸的从小到大的朋友，过去一个月，他们每天在微信上交流疫情，见面了，便很开心地都聚到家里吃饭，除了他们，还有其他两个邻居也来了，他们都是很好的朋友。
In the past month, when they met, they happily gathered at home for dinner. Besides them, there were two other neighbors who were very good friends.
异常温暖的天气加上突然到来的客人，让人感到春天已经来到，病毒似乎正在离去。
The unusually warm weather, coupled with the unexpected arrival of guests, gave the impression that spring had arrived and that the virus seemed to be leaving.
但我知道，阳光并不能遮住病毒的本质。
But I know that sunlight does not hide the essence of the virus.
那些仍在继续的，需要被记住的，并不会因为阳光出来就消失了。
What is still going on, and needs to be remembered, does not go away just because the sun comes out.
疫情并未结束，仍有很多武汉人、湖北人及其他地方的病人还在煎熬。
The epidemic is not over, and many Wuhan, Hubei and other patients are still suffering.
我希望每个人都能尽快迎来鸟语花香的春天。
I hope everyone can welcome the spring flowers and birds as soon as possible.
更多疫情故事，请点击左下角「阅读原文」。
For more stories about the outbreak, please click "Read the original text" at the bottom left corner.
新型肺炎疫情牵动人心，《在人间》现面向全国网友征稿：（一）疫区影像日记如果你身处疫区请你用照片（视频）和文字记录你所听闻和见到的一切照片不少于3张文字不少于300字投稿方式：微信联系人间君（zairenjianliving）（二）抗击疫情真实故事无论你是一线医护人员、志愿者、确诊或疑似患者及家属、已治愈出院人士等等，如果希望讲述疫情相关经历，请微信联系人间君（zairenjianliving）。
If you are in an epidemic area, please use photos (video) and writing to record all photos you hear and see in no less than 300 words. Whether you are a frontline health care worker, volunteer, confirmed or suspected patient and family member, cured patient or discharged person, please contact the ruler of the world by letter.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
在人间丨乡村防疫观察：没有什么比串门更诡异的了。
Observation in the World into the Village: Nothing is more bizarre than a visit to a door.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "在人间living";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; at & quot; among men.
var msg_title = "在人间丨乡村防疫观察：没有什么比串门更诡异的了";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; Nothing is more bizarre than a visit.
var msg_desc = "他们总还要把人情世故贯彻到底。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; they always have to carry the story through.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '在人间丨基层干部的抗疫日记：从封路、隔离到复工',。
Diary of resistance to disease among people, from road sealing to quarantining to reinstated & apos;
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '在人间丨我在武汉金银潭医院ICU的10小时',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '在人间丨逆行者与单亲少年',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="在人间living";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; at human & quot;
