地球青年丨戒毒后他闯荡非洲成酋长，这次向戒毒所捐万只口罩。
He broke into Africa as a sheikh after the youth of the planet, donating millions of masks to the drug treatment center.
在人间living                      。
Living on earth.
在人间living。
Living on earth.
用冷静的叙述抵抗冰冷 | 凤凰网在人间工作室出品。
Resist cold & # # 124; & # 45; Order of the Phoenix with a sober narrative.
The following article comes from 地球青年图鉴。
A guide to the youth of the planet.
Author 地青。
Authorization Green.
地球青年图鉴。
Youth of the Earth.
年轻的另一种可能。
Another possibility of being young.
1月31日，郑岳峰到尼日利亚拉各斯的一家国际货运公司，他手上有一批口罩，想尽快将其寄往国内。
On January 31, Zheng Yuefeng visited an international cargo company in Lagos, Nigeria. He had a batch of masks on his hand and wanted to send them to China as soon as possible.
非洲的口罩全部靠进口，本地并不生产，加之需求量少，各地库存都比较紧张，能在尼日利亚筹集到这14000只医用外科口罩和N95口罩并不容易。
The collection of 14,000 medical surgical masks and N95 face masks in Nigeria has been made difficult by the fact that Africa imports all its masks and does not produce them locally, and because of low demand, stocks are tight.
来到货运公司，郑岳峰发现比筹集口罩更不容易的是运输。
Coming to the freight company, Mr. Zheng found it harder to move than raising masks.
那时，往来中国的国际航班大面积停飞，不久前，因为航班取消，郑岳峰刚刚退掉了回国过年的机票。
By then, international flights to and from China had ground to a halt, and not long ago, Zheng Yuefeng had just returned home for the New Year because of cancelled flights.
如果货物滞留在半路，货运公司将承担一定的经济风险，很多公司选择不再接发往中国的订单。
If the goods stay half way, the freight company will assume certain economic risks, many companies choose not to take orders to China.
郑岳峰是非洲尼日利亚的酋长，酋长在当地人心中很有威信，郑岳峰承诺“出了问题责任一起担”，货运公司的工作人员答应试一试。
Zheng Yuefeng, the chief of Nigeria in Africa, has a reputation among locals and promised to "share the blame for the problem," and the truckers promised to give it a try.
2月14日，郑岳峰悬了两周的一颗心终于放下了，14000只口罩顺利到达福建省，其中1万只到达榕城司法强制隔离戒毒所，4000只来到福清市镜洋镇。
Feb. 14, Zheng Yuefeng hung for two weeks a heart finally laid down, 14, 000 masks successfully arrived in Fujian Province, of which only 10, 000 arrived in Yung City judicial forced isolation drug rehabilitation center, 4000 came to the Fuqing City Jingyang Town.
前者是郑岳峰在毒瘾中挣扎了15年的地方，后者是郑岳峰的老家。
The former is Zheng Yuefeng in the drug addiction struggle for 15 years, the latter is Zheng Yuefeng's hometown.
△ 郑岳峰受尼日利亚前总统接见最初得知中国疫情爆发的消息时，郑岳峰一边看新闻一边流泪，每每提及疫情，郑岳峰都会哽咽，“很心酸，很痛，我希望祖国能平平安安的，祖国的人民都能健健康康的，我觉得我应该做点什么”。
When Zheng Yuefeng was first informed of the outbreak of the outbreak in Nigeria by the former president of Nigeria, while watching the news and weeping, he would always mention the outbreak. "Very sad, very painful.
今年是郑岳峰成功戒掉毒瘾、来到非洲的第五年，这五年间，他在尼日利亚创立了矿业公司，娶了妻生了子，被任命为尼日利亚福建总商会副会长、尼日利亚华裔青年会副会长，甚至还当上了非洲酋长，“所有的人生大事都是在这边完成的”，但他却始终感念祖国。
In his fifth year in Africa, he founded a mining company in Nigeria, married his wife, was appointed Vice President of the Fujian General Chamber of Commerce in Nigeria, Vice-President of the Chinese Youth Association of Nigeria, and even became African Chief.
△ 打包中的口罩1月27日，大年初三，和往年一样，郑岳峰在微信上给魏明情拜年。
On January 27, 2007, New Year's Eve, as in previous years, Zheng Yuefeng paid a New Year call to Wei on a letter.
魏明情是榕城司法强制隔离戒毒所管理科科长，也是郑岳峰的“恩人、兄弟”，曾在2000年到2015年的15年间帮助郑岳峰戒毒。
Wei Mingqing is the head of the section of the Yung City Judicial Forcible Isolation Drug Addiction Treatment Center and Zheng Yuefeng's "benefactor and brother," who helped Zheng Yuefeng detoxify for 15 years from 2000 to 2015.
离开戒毒所后，郑岳峰一直与他保持着联系。
After leaving the drug rehabilitation center, Zheng Yuefeng has been in contact with him.
二人聊到疫情，魏明情说戒毒所内口罩库存不多了，希望郑岳峰帮他在尼日利亚买5000只口罩寄回去，郑岳峰当即决定再追加5000只，为戒毒所凑齐1万只口罩。
When the two talked about the outbreak, Wei said stocks of masks in the drug rehabilitation center were running low. He hoped that Zheng Yuefeng would help him buy 5,000 masks back in Nigeria.
第二天一早，郑岳峰就动身了。
Early the next morning, Zheng Yuefeng set out.
非洲本地不生产口罩，全部靠从印度、中国、黎巴嫩三个国家进口，口罩储备并不多，郑岳峰所在的拉各斯口罩已经全部售罄，郑岳峰和他的另外五名员工驱车来到距离拉各斯300公里的地方，六人分头行动，从城市到农村，走遍大小药店，3天时间，买到了14000只口罩。
Africa does not produce face masks locally, but imports them from India, China and Lebanon. There are not many of them in stock. Zheng Yuefeng and his five other staff have all been sold out. Zheng and five other employees drove 300 kilometers from Lagos.
“去过的药店数不清，一盒口罩是50只，有的药店有一两盒，还有很多药店根本没有，最多的一次是在一家店买到了五盒，这已经算是非常多的了”。
"There are countless pharmacies you've been to, a box of 50 masks, a box or two at a drugstore, and a lot of pharmacies that don't have them at all, most of them five boxes at a store, which is pretty much enough.
当地口罩的价格也在涨，“一天一个样子，这个国家所有的口罩都被华人采购光了”，郑岳峰买下这些口罩花了980000奈拉（约合人民币18800元），相当于每个口罩人民币一块多，之前还要便宜很多。
Local mask prices are also rising, "day by day, all the country's masks are bought by the Chinese." Zheng bought them for 980,000 naira (18,800 yuan), equivalent to more than one yuan per mask, much cheaper than before.
从非洲向国内寄口罩同样不容易，尼日利亚没有直接飞往中国的航班，要转机一到两次，受疫情影响，很多航班都取消了，因为担心货物滞留半路造成的经济损失，货运公司一开始不接单，郑岳峰反复和货运公司交涉，又慢慢等待货运公司清关、交税、检查口罩是否合格。
There were no direct flights to China from Africa, and many flights were cancelled due to the impact of one or two stopovers. Fearing the economic loss of the cargo half way, the trucking company made repeated interventions with the trucking company and slowly waited for the cargo company to clear the customs, pay taxes and check the validity of the masks.
郑岳峰总共花了7500元运费，接近口罩价格的一半，得知口罩顺利到达国内的一刻，郑岳峰说了句，“上苍保佑！”2月14日，榕城司法强制隔离戒毒所收到3个纸箱，上面写着“中国加油！武汉加油！福建加油！尼日利亚华人郑岳峰捐赠”，箱子里是1万只口罩。
Zheng Yuefeng spent 7,500 yuan in freight, close to half the price of the mask. When he learned that the mask had arrived in China successfully, he said, "God bless you!" On February 14, Zheng Yuefeng received three cartons with the words, "China Come on! Wuhan! Come on! Fujian! Donation by Chinese Nigerians Zheng Yuefeng." There were 10,000 masks in the case.
“真是解了我们的燃眉之急”，戒毒所所长陈秋十分欣喜，“我负责他的时候，他才20岁出头，长相清秀，很是机灵。
"It was a real relief to us," said Chen Qiu, director of the drug rehabilitation center. "When I was in charge of him, he was in his early twenties, handsome and shrewd.
”虽已过去多年，陈秋对郑岳峰仍然印象深刻，他还记得，他曾带着郑岳峰在全省作巡回演讲。
Although many years have passed, Chen is still impressed by Zheng Yuefeng, who, he remembers, took him on a speaking tour across the province.
和口罩在一起的，还有一封郑岳峰的亲笔信，“我记得我是一名中国人。
Along with the mask was a personal letter from Zheng Yuefeng, "I remember being a Chinese.
”“郑岳峰没有让你们失望，这几年我没有再碰毒品，没有你们的教导，就没有今天的我。
"" Zheng Yuefeng didn't let you down. I haven't touched drugs in the past few years.
”郑岳峰在信中还写了一句“岂曰无衣，与子同袍”，前不久他看到一则新闻用了这个诗句，那则新闻讲的是河南侨商抢购物资援助家乡的事，郑岳峰很感动，“祖国的强大安康，对于我们这些海外的游子来说是很重要的，一旦祖国有什么事我们都会尽一切的努力去支援，只有祖国好了，我们这些游子在国外才能过得好”。
"In his letter, Zheng Yuefeng also wrote," Wouldn't we be clothed and robed with our children? "Recently, he saw a news item about overseas Chinese businessmen snapping up goods to help his hometown.
疫情刚刚开始的时候，郑岳峰就向当地商会捐赠了100万奈拉（约合人民币2万元）。
At the beginning of the epidemic, Mr. Zheng donated one million naira (20,000 yuan) to the local chamber of commerce.
他听说老家福清镜洋镇一线值班人员没有口罩戴，又将4000只口罩寄到了老家，还委托友人给镇卫生院送去了价值1万元的慰问品。
He heard that his hometown Fuqing Jingyang Town first-line duty staff did not wear masks, and sent 4,000 masks to his hometown, but also entrusted friends to the township hospital sent 10,000 yuan worth of comfort.
后来温州的朋友找到他，说浙江温州有很多单位口罩紧缺，他又帮忙采购了2万多只口罩寄回国内。
Later, friends of Wenzhou came to him and said that many units in Wenzhou, Zhejiang Province, are in short supply, he helped to purchase more than 20,000 masks sent home.
△ 郑岳峰与当地员工五年前，郑岳峰从未想过自己有天可以有机会回报自己的祖国和帮助过他的人们。
Zheng Yuefeng and his local employees Five years ago, Zheng Yuefeng never thought that he would one day have the opportunity to repay his motherland and help the people who helped him.
2015年7月，郑岳峰第三次从戒毒所出来，接连找了很久的工作，却处处碰壁，“戒毒人员回归社会，遭到的排斥是非常厉害的，我当时真的非常迷茫，又很怕自己会再次用毒品来麻痹自己”。
In July 2015, Zheng Yuefeng came out of drug addiction treatment center for the third time, looking for a long job in succession, only to encounter every obstacle.
这一次，40岁的郑岳峰感觉自己无法再次承受复吸的后果了。
This time, the 40-year-old Zheng felt he could not bear the consequences of resuscitation again.
2000年，郑岳峰染上毒瘾，那时他才十几岁，一直到2015年，他三次进出榕城戒毒所，“我是家里的独生子，父母对我寄予了很大的期望，这十几年里我却伤透了他们的心，把最好的时光都荒废在了戒毒所里”。
In 2000, when he became addicted to drugs, when he was a teenager, until 2015, he entered and left the banyan city drug treatment center three times. "I am the only child in the family, my parents have great expectations of me, but for more than a decade I broke their hearts and wasted my best time in drug addiction."
郑岳峰觉得自己找不到工作了，绝望之时，他想到了时任榕城戒毒所三大队大队长的陈秋，陈秋说过“有什么困难，三大队所有民警的手机永远为你开通”。
Zheng Yuefeng felt that he could not find work, desperate time, he thought of then banyan City Drug Addiction Institute three brigade commander Chen Qiu said, "what difficulties, all three brigade of the police mobile phones will always be open for you."
郑岳峰试着拨通了魏明情的电话，魏明情了解情况后，热情地给予帮助，他建议郑岳峰换个环境试试，并把他介绍给了一位在非洲经商的老乡，让郑岳峰有机会到国外发展。
Zheng Yuefeng tried to dial Wei Mingcai telephone, Wei Mingqing after understanding the situation, enthusiastically help, he suggested that Zheng Yuefeng try a change of environment, and he introduced him to a businessman in Africa, let Zheng Yuefeng have the opportunity to develop abroad.
△ 郑岳峰拍下的尼日利亚2015年9月，郑岳峰独自坐上了前往尼日利亚的飞机。
In September 2015, Zheng Yuefeng, photographed by Cheng Yuefeng, boarded a plane for Nigeria alone.
刚到尼日利亚时，郑岳峰在老乡介绍的一家木材公司工作，每天负责到尼日利亚乡下的山林中收购梨花木。
When he first arrived in Nigeria, Zheng Yuefeng worked for a timber company introduced by Laoxiang and was responsible for buying pear trees in the mountains of rural Nigeria every day.
独自到非洲闯荡，郑岳峰没觉得有什么不适应的地方，尽管语言不通，但他当时仍然觉得尼日利亚是个比中国好很多的地方，“因为在这里没有人会去排斥你，去介意你是个吸毒的。
Although he didn't understand the language, he still felt that Nigeria was a much better place than China. "Because no one here would reject you, and mind that you are a drug addict.
只要你能在这里好好地工作，你就能好好地生存下去。
As long as you can work well here, you will survive well.
”郑岳峰评价自己“很讲诚信”“办事灵活”，在木材公司干了三四个月，就交到了很多朋友，朋友都跟他说“在这边吃死工资，不划算”，老板也建议他“阿峰，你自己去收购一点木头，这样的话你可以多赚一点点”。
After three or four months at the lumber company, he made a lot of friends who said "it's not good to eat your wages here," and the boss advised him to "buy some wood yourself so you can make a little more money."
△ 郑岳峰与当地人一起烧烤“阿峰”听从了老板的建议，做起了自己的木材生意。
Cheng Yuefeng barbecued with the local people "Ah Feng" heeded the boss's suggestion and started his own timber business.
他从尼日利亚当地收购来梨花木，拿去清关，再销售到中国。
He bought pear wood from Nigeria, cleared it for customs and sold it to China.
最初的员工有五六个，都是他在戒毒所认识的朋友，听说他在非洲发展不错，都来“投靠”他。
His initial staff of five or six, all friends he knew from drug addiction treatment, heard that he was doing well in Africa and had come to rely on him.
木材生意让郑岳峰挣到了人生的“第一桶金”，人民币20万元。
Timber business let Zheng Yue Feng earned the "first barrel of gold" of life, RMB 200,000.
每每提到此处，他都唏嘘不已，出国之前，10万块钱他借了一个月，怎么借都借不到，“当时的情形我到现在都历历在目，没人相信我”。
Before he went abroad, he borrowed 100,000 yuan, but he could not borrow any. "I can see the situation now and no one believes me."
郑岳峰第一时间把挣钱的事情告诉了魏明情，他说魏明情像他的“再造父母”，没有他，他根本不会来非洲。
Zheng Yuefeng first told Wei Mingyue about making money. He said he was like his "reconstituted parents" and would never have come to Africa without him.
郑岳峰的木材生意做了两年，当时公司的员工已经有十几人了，每人每月能开1万多元工资。
Zheng Yuefeng's timber business for two years, when the company's staff of more than a dozen people, each can open a monthly wage of more than 10, 000.
后来因为尼日利亚将梨花木列为濒危木种、木材一律禁止出关，郑岳峰的生意就停掉了。
Later, because Nigeria listed pear wood as an endangered species, timber ban, Zheng Yuefeng's business stopped.
△ 郑岳峰公司所在的矿区△ 矿区的金矿他转而成立了一家矿业公司。
He started a mining company instead of a gold mine in the mining area of?????????? mining area?
公司做原金生意，从河道采掘淘选出沙金，过筛、烧制后直接在当地销售，生产线有两条，总投资达三千多万元。
The company does the original gold business, from the river to pick out the sand gold, sieve, after directly selling in the local production line, two lines, total investment of more than 30 million yuan.
郑岳峰现在和当地的土皇合作，他英语不好，于是找了非洲人做翻译，生意渐渐从华人圈子扩大到了非洲人的圈子。
Zheng Yuefeng now works with the local Tsar. His English is poor, so he turns to Africans as a translator and his business expands from the Chinese to the African community.
在尼日利亚成功创业的经历让郑岳峰重拾了信心，也让他获得了尼国华商们的认可，他现在是尼日利亚福建总商会副会长、尼日利亚华裔青年会副会长，郑岳峰觉得，“挣到钱就要回馈社会”。
His successful experience in starting a business in Nigeria has restored his confidence and won him the recognition of Chinese businessmen in Nepal. He is now Vice President of the Fujian General Chamber of Commerce and Vice President of the Chinese Youth Association of Nigeria.
他为当地捐款修建了一座学校，去年五四青年节的时候，学校盖好了，当地的酋长跟州长为了表彰他的突出贡献，封他为“酋长”。
He built a school for a local donation, and last year on May 4th the school was built and the local chief and governor, in recognition of his outstanding contribution, made him chief.
△ 郑岳峰授封酋长现场△ 酋长证书与王冠授封当天，尼日利亚约鲁巴族土皇亲手为郑岳峰颁发了证书和象征权力的权杖。
On the day of Chief?? s certificate and crest?? s coronation, the Empress of Yoruba, Nigeria, handed Zheng Yuefeng a certificate and a scepter of power.
郑岳峰穿着纯白色的传统服饰，伴随着当地的敲击乐器与歌声，和大家一起跳舞，他感到非常兴奋，“从来没想过能在这片距离中国一万多公里的土地上成为酋长”。
Zheng Yuefeng, dressed in pure white and traditional costume, danced along with the local percussion instruments and songs. He was very excited and "never thought of becoming a sheikh on a land more than 10,000 kilometers away from China.
酋长可以分到一块土地，土地上的老百姓跟着酋长的姓氏，成为酋长的子民。
The sheikhs can be given a piece of land where the people follow the chief's name and become subjects of the chieftaincy.
去见州长的时候，可以直接得到接见。
When he goes to see the governor, he is received directly.
当地百姓也非常尊重酋长，他们见到酋长会下跪，呼喊“King,King（酋长，酋长）”。
The local people also showed great respect for the chiefs, who would kneel down and shout "King, King (chiefs, chiefs)."
虽然酋长并不享有实际的行政权力，但是郑岳峰发现，只要自己穿着酋长的服装出门，当地人都会非常接纳自己，办任何事都变得方便和顺心。
Although the chiefs do not have real executive power, Mr. Zheng found that as long as he went out dressed as sheikhs, the locals would embrace themselves and make everything easy and comfortable.
△ 郑岳峰与妻子、孩子。
Zheng Yuefeng and his wife and children.
很多人觉得郑岳峰的人生曲折、魔幻，郑岳峰也这么觉得，“你让我怎么幻想，我都想不出能走到今天这一步”。
Many people feel that the life of Zheng Yuefeng twists and turns, magic, Zheng Yuefeng also feel so, "you let me fantasize, I can not even think of this stage."
但如今，郑岳峰更想要的是平淡，他打算再在尼日利亚奋斗五年，就回国去孝敬父母。
But now, what Zheng Yuefeng wants more is flat, he intends to fight in Nigeria for another five years, return home to honor their parents.
过去的五年间，在异国事业的成功、家庭的组建，带来了郑岳峰与父母关系的缓和，现在女儿在国内的父母那里，他每天都会和爸妈视频聊天，“如今我才觉得我活得像一个人，不让父母整天以泪洗面。
In the past five years, the success of foreign ventures and family formation has brought about the rapprochement between Zheng Yuefeng and his parents. Now his daughter is at home, he talks to his parents on video every day.
现在我每天都能听到、看到我父母发自内心的笑，我觉得人生本来就应该是这样的。
Now that I can hear and see my parents smile every day, I think life should be like this.
”图片均由受访者提供作者 | 羽祺编辑| 图拉实习生 | 匡若彤 易琬玉凤凰新闻客户端 凤凰网在人间工作室出品新型肺炎疫情牵动人心，《在人间》现面向全国网友征稿：（一）疫区影像日记如果你身处疫区请你用照片（视频）和文字记录你所听闻和见到的一切照片不少于3张文字不少于300字投稿方式：微信联系人间君（zairenjianliving）（二）抗击疫情真实故事无论你是一线医护人员、志愿者、确诊或疑似患者及家属、已治愈出院人士等等，如果希望讲述疫情相关经历，请微信联系人间君（zairenjianliving）。
Imaged Diaries of the Epidemic Region When you are in a quarantined area, please contact the ruler of the world (zairenjianliving) if you wish to tell a story about the epidemic, whether you are a frontline medical worker, volunteer, confirmed or suspected patient and family member, or a person who has been cured.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
地球青年丨戒毒后他闯荡非洲成酋长，这次向戒毒所捐万只口罩。
He broke into Africa as a sheikh after the youth of the planet, donating millions of masks to the drug treatment center.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "在人间living";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; at & quot; among men.
var msg_title = "地球青年丨戒毒后他闯荡非洲成酋长，这次向戒毒所捐万只口罩";。
var msg _ title = & quot; He broke into Africa as a sheikh after the young people of the world went into drugs.
var msg_desc = "离开戒毒所后，他迎来了传奇人生。
var msg _ desc = & quot; his departure from rehab ushered in a life of legend.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '地球青年丨没学上的中国留学生：被迫休学、中转第三国隔离入境',。
Chinese students: Forcible suspension from school, transit to a third country, and & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '地球青年丨戴口罩被歧视后，我在纽约时代广场举牌：口罩+亚裔≠病毒',。
At Times Square in New York City, I posed for a mask: Mask + Asian Capulet virus & apos; after it was discriminated against.
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '地球青年丨我不是病毒，我在巴黎街头与50位陌生人拥抱',。
I include 50 strangers in the streets of Paris with whom I hugged and co-opted.
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="在人间living";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; at human & quot;
