逝者｜华科四位教授：新冠疫情让他们永远留在2020年的寒春。
Four professors: The new crown makes them stay in the cold spring of 2020 forever.
晚点团队。
Late team.
晚点LatePost                      。
Late LatePost.
晚点LatePost。
Late LatePost.
晚一点，好一点。
Later. Better.
这是《财经》杂志与小晚团队联合推出的新品牌。
This is Caijing magazine and the evening team jointly launched the new brand.
全部一手采访，没有二手信息。
All hands-on interviews, no second-hand information.
做你最信任的商业新闻媒体。
Be the business press you trust most.
。
.
段正澄院士亲手种下的梧桐树他们是贡献卓越的科研工作者，也是诲人不倦的教育者。
The Chinese parasol trees planted by the academician are both outstanding researchers and tireless educators.
他们是家里的哥哥、丈夫、母亲和父亲，他们本不应该在2020年的春天离开。
They are the family's brothers, husbands, mothers and fathers, who should not have left in the spring of 2020.
文 |《财经》记者 陈晶 管艺雯编辑 | 宋玮据WHO数据，截至2020年3月3日6时，新冠病毒已经在全球夺去了3110条生命，而随着疫情在全球的蔓延，这一数字仍在增加。
As of 0600 hours on March 3, 2020, the new crown virus has killed 3,110 people globally, a figure that is still growing as the epidemic spreads around the world, according to Caijing Chen and Wei Song, according to WHO.
每一位因为疫情丧生的生命都应该被记住。
Every life lost to the epidemic should be remembered.
而在风暴中心，位于湖北省武汉市的华中科技大学（简称“华中大”）更是因为这场疫情损失惨重，自2020年2月以来，不到20天的时间内五位教授相继辞世，他们的离开或直接或间接与这场疫情有关。
At the epicenter of the storm, the Huazhong University of Science and Technology in Wuhan, Hubei Province (Huazhong University) has lost so much to the epidemic that five professors have died in less than 20 days since February 2020, either directly or indirectly related to the outbreak.
同济医学院的林正斌教授是全国第三位感染新冠病毒的医务工作者，在他可能已经感染的时候，武汉尚未通报病毒“人传人”。
Professor Lin Zhengbin of Tongji Medical College is the third medical worker in the country to be infected with the new crown virus.
机械学院的段正澄院士一生低调，离开之前他曾对身边人说，可能来不及看到手上项目的成果出来了。
Before leaving, he told those around him that it might not be possible to see the results of the project in hand.
生命科学与技术学院的红凌教授被确诊感染新冠病毒三天后就离开了人世，他的妻子仍在家中为他点灯守护。
Professor Hong Ling, of the Institute of Life Sciences and Technology, died three days after being diagnosed with the new crown virus, and his wife is still at home lighting him up.
社会学院的柯卉兵教授离开时年仅41岁，这位乐观温柔的老师生前罹患恶性肿瘤，因疑似感染新冠病毒隔离数天后离世，离世前尚未确诊。
Professor Cole Ping of the College of Social Sciences left at the age of 41, an optimistic and gentle teacher who developed malignant tumours and died a few days after being suspected of having been isolated with the new canopy virus and had not been diagnosed before his death.
同济医学院公共卫生学院教授、研究生导师刘筱娴于2020年2月13日去世，她是我国著名预防医学教育家，创办了我国第一个本科妇幼卫生专业，曾兼任卫生部政策与管理专家委员会委员。
Liu Xiaoxian, professor of public health at Tongji Medical School and a graduate tutor, passed away on February 13, 2020. She is a well-known preventive medicine educator in China.
华中科技大学宣传部人员对《财经》记者表示，刘老师去世前并未感染新冠病毒，而是由于自身疾病医治无效，“但这次疫情造成医疗资源相对紧张，给其他病症的病人也带来了影响。
"Before her death, Liu had not contracted the new crown virus, but because her own illness had not worked," but the outbreak has strained medical resources to the detriment of other patients, "Caijing told Caijing.
”红凌、林正斌、段正澄、柯卉兵，这四位因为新冠病毒而离开的教授，都曾经在他们热爱的华中大生活过。
"Hong Ling, Lin Zhengbin, Duan Zhengzheng, creative soldiers, these four because of the new crown virus and left the professor, have all lived in their beloved Central China University.
他们的故事值得被铭记，被书写。
Their stories deserve to be remembered and written.
当疫情结束，数千学子再踏入华中大时，他们会知道曾经有几位可敬可爱的老师，在灾难中离开了我们。
When the epidemic is over and thousands of students re-enter CUHK, they will know that there were a few honorable teachers who left us in the disaster.
1中国工程院院士段正澄：“尽管离开了，他还是活着”华中科技大学教授、中国工程院院士 段正澄1953年，在武汉武昌的喻家山南麓，一片农田脱胎换骨，华中科技大学的前身——华中工学院正式成立，并在这一年开始招生。
In 1953, Duan Zhengcheng, a professor at Huazhong University of Science and Technology and academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, changed his farmland in the southern foothills of Wuchang, Wuhan, in 1953.
这一年是段正澄从江苏镇江迁来武汉的第二年，19岁的段正澄成为了华中工学院的第一届学生，4年后，段正澄从机械工程系毕业并留校任教至今。
This year is the second year that Cheng Cheng Cheng moved to Wuhan from Zhenjiang, Jiangsu Province. At the age of 19, Duan Zhengcheng became the first student of the Central China Engineering School.
从一片农田到校舍，再到如今的华中大，段正澄陪伴学校走过了从无到有的完整67年。
From a farmland to a school building to today's Central China University, Duan Zhengcheng has accompanied the school through 67 years from scratch.
而在2020年2月15日19时35分，这份陪伴画上了休止符——1月27日段正澄发烧住院，两天后确诊感染新冠病毒，2月11日进入ICU，前几天在ICU还比较稳定，但15日下午情况突然恶化，于当日19时35分在武汉去世。
At 19: 35 on February 15, 2020, the company painted a rest - January 27 Cheng Cheng fever hospitalized, two days later confirmed infection with the new crown virus, February 11 into the ICU, the last few days in the ICU is relatively stable, but on the afternoon of the 15th situation suddenly deteriorated, died on the same day at 19: 35 in Wuhan.
段正澄的丧事从简，不举行遗体告别仪式，一座以段正澄名字拼音为域名的网上纪念堂在15日当晚紧急搭建上线，数百条唁电和悼文从政府领导、领域专家、师生校友、社会各界发来，纪念这位把一生奉献给华中大和机械工程事业的老人。
A memorial service was held on the night of the 15th. Hundreds of messages of condolence and eulogy were sent from government leaders, experts in the field, students and teachers and members of the public in memory of the man who dedicated his life to the cause of central university and mechanical engineering.
1月27日到2月15日，这20天对于所有段正澄的学生、亲友来说，是煎熬的。
January 27 to February 15, these 20 days for all the students, friends and relatives are suffering.
周家林是段正澄的研究生、博士生，认识三十余年，两个家庭非常熟悉。
Zhou Jialin is a graduate student and PhD student who has known for more than 30 years and is familiar to both families.
因为身在新西兰，周家林只能通过段老师的女儿和自己的师弟了解他的病情。
Because he is in New Zealand, Zhou Jialin can only learn about his illness through a teacher's daughter and his brother.
“（段正澄去世后）那天早上，（我）一大早7点钟就醒了，我老婆说段老师女儿发东西了，我们一家三个人就哭起来了。
"(After the death of Cheng Cheng) That morning, [I] woke up at seven o'clock in the morning. My wife said a teacher and daughter had sent something.
”段正澄头七那天，周家林拿出手机，对着中国那个方向，他和老婆深深鞠了三个躬。
On the seventh day of Duan Zhengcheng's head, Zhou Jialin took out his cell phone and bowed deeply to his wife in the direction of China.
在官方介绍里，段正澄拥有非常多的头衔——中国共产党党员、我国著名机械工程专家、中国工程院院士，华中科技大学机械科学与工程学院教授、博士研究生导师、制造装备数字化国家工程研究中心首席科学家。
In the official introduction, Duan Zhengcheng holds many titles - member of the Communist Party of China, an expert on mechanical engineering in China, academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, professor at the Faculty of Mechanical Sciences and Engineering of Huazhong University of Science and Technology, master scientist at the National Engineering Research Center for Digitalization of Manufacturing Equipment.
但他并不在意这诸多头衔，他曾说，“我这辈子最高的行政职务是机械自动化教研室主任”，段正澄所在的教研室走出了五位院士，四位重点大学的党委书记和校长，包括现任华中科技大学的党委书记邵新宇，他在2019年也当选为中国工程院院士。
But he did not care about the titles, saying that "the highest administrative position in my life was as director of the Institute of Mechanical Automation." Duan Zhengcheng's faculty came out of five academicians, and four party secretaries and principals of key universities, including Shao Xinyu, now secretary of the Central University of Science and Technology, who was also elected academician in 2019.
段正澄结交30多年的挚友舒晓向《财经》记者回忆，段正澄直到74岁才申报院士且一次申报成功，因为75岁之后便不能再申报。
Shuxiao, Mr. Duan's best friend for more than 30 years, recalls to Caijing that Mr. Duan didn't file until he was 74 and made a successful declaration, because he couldn't file again after he turned 75.
对于无数人梦寐以求的院士头衔，段正澄看得很淡，他曾说，“如果不是为了学校和团队的荣誉，我也许不会申报。
Duan Zheng looked down on the long-cherished title of academician, saying, "I might not have declared it if it hadn't been for the honor of the school and the team.
”华中师范大学刘中兴教授承担了中国科协等主办的“老科学家学术成长资料采集工程”，他从2018年4月起要对段正澄进行八次正式访谈，目前已经进行了六次，“一开始段老不愿意做，以为是宣传，通过学校相关部门、学院领导多次跟他解释这是一个科研项目，他才接受”。
Professor Liu Zhongxing of Central China Normal University, who has conducted eight official interviews with Zheng Cheng since April 2018, has conducted six official interviews with Zheng Cheng. "He was reluctant to do so at the outset, explaining to him that it was a scientific research project.
在刘中兴印象中，段正澄非常低调，接受访谈之后，段正澄还反复向他强调，“一定要实事求是，不要拔高、不要宣传，还强调要多反映他的团队，多反映学生，多反映学校。
In Liu Zhongxing impression, paragraph Cheng Cheng very low-key, after the interview, Duan Zhengcheng also repeatedly stressed to him, "must be realistic, not high-altitude, not publicity, but also to reflect more of his team, reflect students, more reflects the school.
强调所有的成绩不是他一个人的事，而是一个团队，一个学院的事情。
Emphasize that all achievements are not his business alone, but a team, a college thing.
”舒晓评价段正澄一大特点是既能动手又能动脑，“段老的车工能到8级水平，这是最高的。
"Shuxiao evaluation paragraph Cheng Cheng Cheng is one of the characteristics of both hands and brain," a section of the old car workers can reach the level 8, which is the highest.
”段正澄有一句名言，“要把文章写在祖国大地上，写到车间里”。
Duan Zhengcheng famously said, "Write the article on the land of the motherland, in the workshop."
年轻的时候，段正澄经常一趴车间趴好几个月，段正澄的学生黄禹回忆，当年段正澄为二汽建设研发两条生产线，他在上海、十堰等地一干七八年，多次过武汉家门而不入。
When he was young, paragraph Cheng Cheng often lay in the workshop for several months, paragraph Cheng Yu students Huangyu recollection, the paragraph Chengcheng two production lines for Erqi construction, he in Shanghai, Shiyan, and other places for 78 years, many times over Wuhan home and out.
段正澄带领团队进行的每一项研究都需要投入非常长的时间，他们花了10年研制能杀死肿瘤细胞的“全身伽马刀”，花了20年研究激光加工关键技术与装备，花了整整30年持续完善高性能汽车发动机曲轴高精高效磨床。
Duan Zheng-cheng spent 10 years developing "whole body gamma knives" that kill tumor cells, 20 years of research on key technologies and equipment for laser processing, and 30 years of continuous refinement of the crankshaft and high-efficiency grinder for high-performance automobile engines.
他经常说的一句话是，“做研究要耐得住寂寞，不能够外面来一个脉冲，你自己就要振荡。
He often said, "Do research to endure loneliness, can not come outside a pulse, you will oscillate.
”在感染新冠病毒前，段正澄还在参与研究适合大部分癌症病人的质子放疗设备，“质子刀”在技术上比“全身伽马刀”还要复杂得多，投资规模也是后者的几十倍。
Before becoming infected, Duan was still working on proton radiotherapy equipment for most cancer patients, and the proton knife was technically much more complicated than a full-body gamma knife and invested dozens of times as much.
段正澄已经参与研究了近4年，他曾对周家林等人说过，他可能来不及看到这个项目的成果出来。
Duan Zhengcheng has been involved in research for nearly four years, and he told others like Zhou Jialin that he might not have time to see the results of the project.
60多年来，段正澄培养了32名博士生、6名博士后，与其他教授相比，这并不是一个很高的“产量”。
For more than 60 years, Mr. Duan has trained 32 doctoral students and six postdoctoral students, which is not a high "yield" compared to other professors.
周家林对《财经》记者回忆，“段老的博士可能要读个四五年才能毕业，我当时不知道改了多少遍，他很严格，做他的学生要有一颗强大的内心。
"An old doctor may not graduate for four or five years," Zhou told Caijing. "I don't know how many times he changed it.
”这种严格让周家林受益匪浅，除了工作能力的增强，心理承受能力也变强了。
Zhoujialin benefited greatly from the strictness, and besides the enhancement of his ability to work, his psychological endurance became stronger.
周家林说，“我每次跟段老汇报东西，我会拿出不少于三个方案跟他讨论，这个方案被他否定了，我说还有一个，你再说我还有一个，不然过不了关。
"Every time I talk to him about something, I come up with no less than three proposals, which he rejects, and I say there is one, and you say I have one, or I won't pass.
但是这会让你做到精益求精，好中取好，优中选优。
But it will allow you to excel, to take the best and to choose the best.
”虽然对学生严格，私下里段正澄是一位非常和善的老者。
Although he was strict with his students, Cheng Cheng in private was a very kind old man.
揭文曾经在校时上过段正澄的课，在他印象中，段老师特别爽朗，“有他的地方话就比较多，他是人群里的核心，声音又洪亮，一直笑声不断”。
In his impressions, Mr. Duan was particularly outgoing. "There is more in his place, he is the center of the crowd, his voice is loud and the laughter is constant."
段正澄是机械学院出了名的“铁嘴”，他很能讲，思维敏捷、逻辑性强。
Duan Zhengcheng is the famous "iron mouth" of the Institute of Mechanics. He can speak, think quickly and logically.
不仅能说，段正澄还很能“打”，1.8米的高个，他在大学时就是学校篮球队的第一任队长，专打后卫，还带领篮球队拿到了湖北省冠军。
He was the first captain of the school basketball team in college. He played full-back and led the basketball team to the Hubei Province championship.
不仅能说能打，段正澄还是动手达人。
Not only can say can fight, Duan Zhengcheng still reaches out to the person.
周家林回忆，“最早段老师还住在华工的那个两层楼小房子里，段老师会买来各种元器件，自己组装电视机。
"The earliest teacher lived in the two-storey house where Chinese workers lived," Zhou recalled. "Mr. Duan buys components and assembles his own TV sets.
”段正澄生活拮据的时候，家里备有全套的修鞋工具，家人和朋友鞋底的鞋掌都是他亲力亲为钉上去的，他烧菜也不错，拿手好菜是红烧狮子头。
When the money was tight, the family had a full complement of shoemaking tools, and the soles of the shoes of his family and friends were fixed by his own hands.
刘中兴还记得2019年11月去段正澄家里访谈他的夫人万老师，她评价自己的丈夫很认真，成果始终围绕国家和社会需要，虽然是搞机械的，其实也比较有生活情趣。
Liu also remembers visiting Duan Zhengcheng's home in November 2019 to interview his wife, Mr. Wan, who said her husband was serious and that the results always revolved around the needs of the country and society.
刘中兴告诉《财经》记者，万老师是华中大老年合唱团团长，歌唱得非常好，还会用俄语唱歌，“湖北省一次联欢活动上，老两口还一起上台表演，是《纤夫的爱》歌曲对唱。
Liu told Caijing that Mr. Wan, the head of the Huazhong University Choir, sang very well and sang in Russian. "At a get-together event in Hubei Province, the old couple performed together on stage, singing the song" Love of a cilia husband. "
”在华中科技大学附属中学老校区旁，有一棵段正澄亲手栽下的梧桐树，在西南角往北数第二棵。
"Next to the old campus of the secondary school attached to Huazhong University of Science and Technology, there was a sycamore tree planted by himself, the second one north of the southwest corner.
他和那棵梧桐树一起，陪伴着这块土地上的人们长大和老去，过去，现在，未来。
Together with the sycamore tree, he accompanied the people on this land grow up and grow old, past, present, future.
这场疫情夺走了很多不应该离开的生命。
The epidemic has taken many lives that should not be left behind.
如果不是这场突如其来的疫情，段正澄将度过一个团圆的春节，继续参与质子刀的项目研究，饭点去教工食堂吃一碗热腾腾的热干面，闲暇时去青年园旁拍摄风景、去看看自己栽下的法国梧桐，一如往常，平凡又美好。
If it had not been for the sudden outbreak, Duan Zhengcheng would have spent a reunion Spring Festival, continued to participate in the proton knife project research, lunch to eat a bowl of hot and dry noodles, leisure time to shoot the scenery next to the youth garden, to see their plane trees, as usual, ordinary and beautiful.
段正澄走后，他的老友舒晓依然在给他发送微信消息，“我非常伤心，他尽管离开了，他还是活着，活在我们心里，他是一个真正平凡而又伟大的人。
After Duan Zhengcheng had gone, his old friend Shu Xiao still sent him a message. "I am very sad, even though he has left, he is still alive in our hearts, he is really ordinary and great.
”2同济医学院附属同济医院教授林正斌：“一位好医生就这样走了”华中科技大学同济医学院附属同济医院副主任医师、教授林正斌2月10日11时，华中科技大学同济医学院附属同济医院教授林正斌因感染新冠肺炎抢救无效去世，享年62岁。
Lin Zhengbin, a professor at Tongji Hospital affiliated with Tongji Medical School, Tongji University of Science and Technology, said: "A good doctor has just left." Lin Zhengbin, a professor at Tongji Hospital affiliated with Tongji Medical School, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, died on February 10.
他是该院器官移植研究所的副主任医师，感染前一直在医院值班工作，从确诊感染新冠肺炎到去世，中间不到半个月时间。
He was the deputy director of the Institute of Organ Transplant at the hospital, where he had been on duty before the infection, less than half a month between the diagnosis of pneumonia and death.
去世前他曾发信息给同事，“我上呼吸机了，救救我。
Before he died, he sent a message to his colleagues, "I'm on the ventilator. Help me.
”据《健康时报》报道，过年前林正斌就找到了同事——感染科主任医师、湖北省疫情防控专家组成员宋建新，当时林正斌已经出现了多日低烧、咳嗽的症状。
Lin found a colleague Song Jianxin, director of the Infection Department and a member of the Hubei Provincial Epidemiology and Prevention Expert Group, before the New Year, when Lin Zhengbin developed symptoms of low fever and cough.
一位器官移植研究所的同事曾在接受《南方都市报》采访中表示，1月24日林正斌就已经在家进行了隔离治疗，隔离了一段时间觉得病情并未好转才在1月27日前后住院治疗。
Lin Zhengbin was hospitalized around January 27 after being held in isolation for a period of time because he didn't feel better, a colleague from the Organ Transplant Institute told Southern Metropolis Daily.
按照病毒14天的潜伏期推算，林正斌可能在1月10日前后就感染了病毒。
Based on the virus's incubation period of 14 days, Lin Zhengbin may have contracted the virus around January 10.
而当时，同济医院的医生内部都尚未意识到疫情的严重性。
At the time, doctors at Tongji Hospital were unaware of the severity of the outbreak.
1月20日，中国工程院院士钟南山才明确表示新冠病毒存在“人传人”。
On January 20, Chinese Academy of Engineering academician Zhong Nan-shan made it clear that there was "human-to-human" transmission of the virus.
《财经》记者了解到，同济医院在2020年元旦后启动了医护人员的三级防护，但宋建新告诉记者，“并非全院都启动。
Caijing reporter learned that Tongji Hospital started tertiary protection for medical staff after the 2020 New Year's Day, but Song Jianxin told reporters that "not all hospitals have started.
”根据2003年卫生部发布的《传染性非典型肺炎流调人员现场防护指导原则（试行）》，三级防护主要适用于采集疑似病例、临床诊断病例咽拭子等标本的工作人员。
According to the Guidelines for the Field Protection of Persons Dispatched with Infectious Atypical Pneumonia (Trial) issued by the Ministry of Health in 2003, level 3 protection is mainly applied to staff who collect specimens of suspected cases, clinical diagnosis and swabs of pharynx.
林正斌所在的器官移植研究所不属于实施三级防护措施的范围。
Lin Zhengbin's organ transplant institute does not fall within the scope of implementing tertiary protective measures.
器官移植研究所所长陈知水对记者表示，林正斌感染前一直在科室正常进行门诊、查房，并未调至发热门诊支援。
Chen Zhishui, director of the Organ Transplant Institute, told reporters that Lin Zhengbin had been in the department before the infection normal outpatient, room inspection, did not adjust to the heating clinic support.
对于感染的原因，陈知水表示“不好说”。
For the cause of the infection, Chen Zhi-shui said "hard to say."
他认为感染源可能来自门诊病人，“年初外科集体体检，门诊人也比较多”。
He believes that the source of the infection may have come from the outpatient, "early surgical group examination, outpatient is also more."
也可能来自医院外。
It may also come from outside the hospital.
住院前，林正斌一直不敢确定自己被感染了，“奇怪了，我不会得了那个传染性肺炎了吧。
Before he was admitted to hospital, Lin Zhengbin was unsure that he was infected. "Strange, I won't have that infectious pneumonia.
”直到宋建新看了他的CT结果，告诉他：“很有可能是。
It was not until Song Jianxin read his CT results that he told him, "Probably.
”让宋建新没想到的是，林正斌病情恶化迅速，住院后一星期就进了重症监护室。
What Song did not expect was that Lin Zhengbin's condition deteriorated rapidly, and he was admitted to intensive care unit a week after his hospitalization.
上了呼吸机后，林正斌曾给宋建新发信息：“宋主任，我上了呼吸机，救救我。
On the ventilator, Lin Zhengbin had given Song Jianxin information: "Song director, I entered the ventilator, save me.
”林正斌的大学室友，厦门大学附属第一医院心脏外科主任医师舒涛听到林正斌病情迅速恶化后去世的消息感到震惊且疑惑，“这个消息一下把人打蒙了。
"Shu Tao, Lin Zhengbin's college roommate and head of cardiac surgery at Xiamen University's First Affiliated Hospital, was shocked and puzzled when he heard that Lin Zhengbin's illness had rapidly deteriorated.
”在舒涛的记忆中，林正斌大学时期是学校足球队成员，“球踢得很棒”。
In Shu Tao's memory, Lin Zhengbin was a member of the school football team during his college days.
他也喜欢跑步，学校的操场上总能看见他矫健的身姿。
He also likes to run, the school playground can always see his lithe posture.
“按理来说，他的身体免疫力不会差”。
"His immunity is not supposed to be bad."
陈知水说，之所以一周内就快速转为重症，可能和感染的病毒量、个人免疫力有关，此外初期大家对于病毒的认知也不够清晰。
Chen Zhishui said that the rapid transformation to serious illness within a week, may be related to the amount of virus infection, personal immunity, in addition to the early knowledge of the virus is not clear.
不过，陈知水称，“没有听说过他之前有什么基础病。
However, Chen Zhishui said, "I have not heard of his previous basic illness.
”林正斌去世后，他的儿子、媳妇也感染上了新冠病毒，不过陈知水表示二人目前“状况还好”。
After Lin's death, his son and daughter-in-law also contracted the new crown virus, but Chen said they were "in good condition.
目前同济医学院附属同济医院仍有医护人员感染，暂时没有感染的重症医护人员。
At present, Tongji Hospital attached to Tongji Medical College is still infected by medical staff. There are no serious cases of infection.
在陈知水眼中，林正斌平时为人谦和，工作踏实，“对病人很好。
In Chen Zhi-shui's eyes, Lin Zhengbin is usually humble, practical work, "good to the patient.
”对于所里的工作，从来都是任劳任怨。
"There was never any work to be done.
“事情交给他，都会办得很靠谱，没有怨言。
"Everything is left to him to do well, without complaint.
”由于器官移植时机关键，手术不等人，一有捐赠器官就需要为受体安排手术。
Since the timing of organ transplants is crucial, surgery does not wait for people, and recipients need to be operated on as soon as donor organs are donated.
对林正斌来说，半夜临时上手术，全国各地出差取器官、做手术都是工作常态。
For Lin Zhengbin, the temporary operation in the middle of the night, all over the country to take organs, surgery is the normal work.
“苦活、累活他都干了不少。
He has worked hard and hard.
”高考恢复第二年，舒涛和林正斌在武汉医学院（华中科技大学同济医学院前身）开始了五年的大学时光。
Shu Tao and Lin Zhengbin began their five-year college years at Wuhan Medical School, the predecessor of Tongji Medical College of Huazhong University of Science and Technology.
当时的林正斌比同寝室的四五位室友都要年长两三岁，对他们来说，林正斌就像他们的大哥哥一样。
Lin Zhengbin was two or three years older than four or five of his roommates, and to them Lin Zhengbin was like their elder brother.
舒涛还记得，林正斌在生活各方面都尽量照顾室友们。
Shu Tao also remembers that Lin Zhengbin took care of his roommates in every aspect of his life.
上世纪70年代，大家生活都不富裕，每个月11元的奖学金就是同学们的生活费，“从没见他穿过什么好衣服”。
In the 1970s, everyone was not well-to-do. A scholarship of 11 yuan a month was the living expenses of his classmates.
家在武汉本地的林正斌还会邀请室友去家里玩，热情招待大家。
The local home in Wuhan Lin Zhengbin will also invite roommates to play at home, warmly welcome everyone.
林正斌来自一个普通的工人家庭，家中还有两位哥哥，他排行老三。
Lin Zhengbin from an ordinary working family, there are two brothers, he ranked third.
在舒涛的记忆中，林正斌是家中读书时间最久的孩子，他靠自学考上大学，1983年毕业之后就留在了同济医学院附属同济医院器官移植研究所，一干就是三十多年。
In Shu Tao's memory, Lin Zhengbin is the oldest child at home, he went to college by self-study, after 1983 graduated from Tongji Hospital Tongji Hospital Organ Transplant Institute for more than 30 years.
器官移植研究所的前身是武汉医学院腹部外科研究室，由中国科学院院士、“中国外科之父”裘法祖教授在1965年带头成立。
The Institute of Organ Transplant, formerly the abdominal surgery department of Wuhan Medical School, was founded in 1965 by Professor Ju Fazu, academician of the Chinese Academy of Sciences and father of Chinese surgery.
1977年研究室由同济医院代管，1982年，研究室完成了国内首例单纯胰腺移植，1989年首例亲属活体脾在这里移植成功。
In 1977, the Office of Research was managed by Tongji Hospital. In 1982, the Office of Research completed the first pancreatic transplantation in China. In 1989, the first living relative spleen was successfully transplanted here.
能留在这样国内顶尖的科研单位并不容易。
It is not easy to stay in such a state-of-the-art scientific institution.
舒涛记得，大学时期，林正斌就是同学之间的“优等生”，大家中午回寝室休息的时候，他还在教室学习。
Shu Tao remembers that in college, Lin Zhengbin was a "top student" among his classmates. When we returned to his dorm room at noon, he was still studying in the classroom.
武汉的冬天，冷得让人难受。
Wuhan in winter, the cold is miserable.
林正斌和同学们都是早上四五点起来，裹着军大衣就去教室学习了。
Lin Zhengbin and his classmates are up four or five in the morning, wrapped in a military coat to study in the classroom.
“他下过乡，在那个时期还在保持学习。
"He went to the country and stayed in school during that time.
所以他一旦抓住了学习的机会，就特别珍惜。
So once he grasps the opportunity to learn, he especially cherishes it.
”舒涛表示，林正斌不是那种会高谈人生理想的人，但对于医学科研这条路一直非常坚持，工作之后和林正斌聊天，聊得最多的还是他的病人和科研。
Lin Zhengbin is not the kind of person to talk about life's ideals, but he has been very insistent on medical research, talking to Lin Zhengbin after work, most often about his patients and scientific research.
在舒涛眼中，林正斌是非常爱国且有正义感的人。
In the eyes of Shu Tao, Lin Zhengbin is very patriotic and has a sense of justice.
工作后，林正斌曾赴日本金泽医科大学进修学习，学习完成后他还是选择了回国。
After work, Lin Zhengbin went to Jinze Medical University in Japan to study, after which he chose to return home.
2017年他退休后又被返聘，在肾移植手术、术后管理和危重病人救治方面都是专家，在新型免疫抑制剂的应用和器官保存液的研发方面也作出了突出贡献。
After retiring in 2017, he was rehired as an expert in renal transplant surgery, post-operative management, and treatment of critically ill patients, and made outstanding contributions to the application of new immunosuppressive agents and the development of organ preservation fluids.
林正斌偶尔去厦门出差开会，都会带着武汉特产来看舒涛。
Lin Zhengbin occasionally goes to Xiamen on business meetings, will take Wuhan specialty to see Shu Tao.
尽管最后一次和林正斌见面已经是十多年前，舒涛仍能记得他温厚、平和的样子，没想到再听到他的消息，已经是他感染新冠病毒去世了。
Although the last time and Lin Zhengbin met more than 10 years ago, Shu Tao can still remember his warm, peaceful appearance, did not expect to hear from him again, it was his death of the new crown virus.
“太突然了。
"It's too sudden.
他一路走来很不容易，一位好医生就这样走了。
It was not easy for him to walk all the way, and so a good doctor went away.
”3生命科学与技术学院教授红凌：“肺炎好像越来越严重了，你们都早一点回家吧”华中科技大学生命科学与技术学院教授、 博士生导师红凌2020年2月7日晚上10点45分，红凌教授的妻子接到了来自华中科技大学附属协和医院的电话，她被告知红凌老师去世了，而就在三个小时前，妻子还问红凌吃饭了没有，红凌给他回了一个“ok”的表情。
"Pneumonia seems to be getting worse, so please go home earlier," Hong Ling, a professor at the Institute of Life Sciences and Technology and a doctoral supervisor at Huazhong University of Science and Technology, received a telephone call from Concorde Hospital, an affiliate of the Central University of Science and Technology.
病来如山倒。
Illness is like a mountain.
春节期间，红凌和妻子都出现了感染新冠病毒的症状，由于红凌有糖尿病，病情比妻子更严重。
During the Spring Festival, both Hong Ling and her wife developed symptoms of the new crown virus, which is more serious than that of their wives because of diabetes.
但当时没有核酸检测就无法住院，等了好几天，终于在2月5日，家人收到了个“好消息”：核酸检测阳性，可以住院了。
But after days of waiting without a nucleic acid test, the family received the "good news" on February 5: Nucleic acid positive enough to be hospitalized.
当天早上6点，妻子帮红凌刮了胡子，临走前还和红凌抱了抱，让他“乖乖治疗”。
At 6 o'clock that morning, the wife helped Hong Ling to shave her beard and hugged him before she left.
当时红凌的状况已经不乐观，家人已经做好了要上呼吸机的准备。
Hong Ling was no longer in good shape, and her family was ready to go to the ventilator.
当天下午，红凌还打电话和妻子说，“感觉舒服多了。
On the afternoon of the same day, Hong Ling telephoned her wife and said, "I feel much better.
”但让家人和同事们都没想到的是，仅在三天后，红凌就去世了，年仅53岁。
But to the surprise of her family and colleagues, Hong Ling died just three days later, at the age of 53.
红凌可能较早就注意到了这次疫情不一般。
Hong Ling may have noticed the unusual outbreak earlier.
据《新京报》报道，1月17日，曾有实验室的学生和红凌聊起泰国当时出现了第二例新冠肺炎患者，而当天武汉卫健委通报称无新增确诊病例。
On January 17, a lab student and Hong Ling chatted about a second case of New Crown Pneumonia in Thailand, while Wuhan Health Commission reported no new cases, the Beijing News reported.
红凌告诉学生：“肺炎好像越来越严重了，你们都早一点回家吧。
"Pneumonia seems to be getting worse and worse. Let's all go home earlier," Hong Ling told the students.
”春节期间，红凌还在实验室的微信群里叮嘱学生们，要注意身体健康。
During the Spring Festival, Hong Ling also tells students in her laboratory to pay attention to their health.
红凌最后一次在群里发的一条消息，是1月26日学校延期春季开学的通知。
The last piece of news that Hong Ling gave in the group was the announcement that the school had postponed the start of spring on January 26.
在同事张伟眼中，红凌工作勤奋，踏实。
In the eyes of her colleague Zhang Wei, Hong Ling works diligently and steadily.
张伟常看到他在办公室工作到很晚，对于亲自带的这十来个学生，他十分上心。
Zhang Wei often saw him working late in the office, and he was very interested in the dozen or so students he took with him.
一位学生说，自己曾在朋友圈转发生科院同学家属的筹钱信息，红凌老师看到后还专门来问了这位同学的情况，这让他觉得十分感动。
One student said that she had relayed money-raising information about the family members of her classmates in a circle of friends. When Hong Ling saw the information, she came to ask the student about it, which moved him very much.
2019年12月华中大考试周来临时，红凌还一对一和实验室的本科生谈心，“你们学业繁重，实验室的工作先放一放，专心复习。
When the Central China University Examinations Week came in December 2019, Hong Ling talked with undergraduate students in the laboratory on a one-on-one basis.
”红凌常鼓励学生们要注重成绩。
Red Ling often encourages students to focus on their grades.
一次在课堂上，他说起自己大学时曾经因为沉迷下围棋耽误了学习，导致考试不及格。
Once in class, he mentioned that he had been delayed in his studies due to his obsession with Go in college, which had caused him to fail the exam.
“所以，成绩还是很重要啊。
"So grades are still very important.
”一位学生还能想起红凌老师当时爽朗的笑声。
"One student could also remember the bright laughter of Miss Hong Ling at the time.
学院的课题讨论会上，不少老师会对学生提一些尖锐的问题，红凌总是风格温和的那个。
During the seminar, many teachers will ask some tough questions to the students. Hong Ling is always the one with a mild style.
红凌老师最后一次参会是在1月上旬，当时数十位老师、学生都围坐在一间会议室里，均没有防护措施。
The last time Hong Ling attended the meeting was in early January, dozens of teachers and students were sitting in a conference room without protection.
在张伟看来，红凌平时工作压力比较大，身体状况也一般，开会的时候总是过一会，就要出去歇一会。
In Zhang Wei's opinion, Hong Ling usually works under more pressure and is in a general condition. She always goes out for a rest after meeting.
平时除了带着学生做课题、上课之外，还需要花精力照顾家中年迈的父亲和母亲，偶尔因为照顾家里人不能来开会。
In addition to taking students to do projects, classes, but also to spend energy looking after their elderly father and mother, occasionally unable to attend meetings because of family care.
他还有一位妹妹，常年在国外。
He also has a sister, who lives abroad all year round.
红凌是武汉本地人，2007年回到武汉，在华中科技大学担任生命科学与技术学院教授、博士生导师，研究领域是人体重大疾病的分子机制及信号转导网络调控。
Hong Ling, a native of Wuhan, returned to Wuhan in 2007 to work as a professor and doctoral tutor at the Institute of Life Sciences and Technology at Huazhong University of Science and Technology.
此前，红凌在美国亚利桑那大学攻读生物化学博士学位并且在加利福尼亚大学伯克利分校做博士后研究，后来留在了美国加州伯克莱、劳任斯国家实验室工作。
Previously, Hong Ling studied biochemistry at the University of Arizona and did postdoctoral research at the University of California, Berkeley, before staying at the Laurens National Laboratory in Berkeley, California.
同事张伟表示，红凌妻子和孩子平日都在国外。
Colleague Zhang Wei said that Hong Ling's wife and children were abroad on weekdays.
他一个人从国外回来，多半是因为要照顾父母，双亲目前已80多岁。
He came back from abroad alone, mostly because he had to take care of his parents, who were now in their 80s.
红凌去世前致力于维生素K2在膀胱癌上的抗癌机制研究，以及抗癌药物的研发，并在与人体重大疾病及稀有疾病相关的基因UBIAD1的分子机制研究上作出了巨大贡献。
Before her death, Hong Ling devoted herself to studying the anti-cancer mechanism of vitamin K2 on bladder cancer and the development of anticancer drugs, and made a great contribution to the research on the molecular mechanism of UBIAD 1 gene associated with major and rare diseases of the human body.
得知红凌老师去世的消息，张伟表示很震惊。
Zhang Wei was shocked to learn of the death of Miss Hong Ling.
张伟最后在课题讨论会上见到红凌老师时，他还在聊自己手上关于抗癌药物研发的课题，“没想到他走得这么快、这么突然。
When Zhang finally met with Hong Ling at the project seminar, he was still talking about his research and development of anticancer drugs.
”红凌走后，他的妻子在朋友圈发了一封信，“写给我的挚爱红凌”。
After Hong Ling leaves, her wife sends a letter to her friends, "Write to my dear Hong Ling.
在信中，她称丈夫为“红小胖”。
In the letter, she called her husband "Little Red Fat."
信的最后，她写道：你不要走得太急，可以回来看看我吗？记得我在等你。
You mustn't go too fast, she wrote at the end of the letter, can you come back and see meI remember waiting for you.
4社会学院教授柯卉兵：“他是一种引导的力量”华中科技大学社会学院教授、博士生导师 柯卉兵2020年2月19日6时，华中科技大学社会学院教授、博士生导师柯卉兵因病医治无效去世，生前曾被疑似感染新冠病毒。
"He is a guiding force." At 6 o'clock on February 19, 2020, Cohui Bing, professor of social science college of Huazhong University of Science and Technology and a doctoral tutor, Ke Huibing, died of invalid medical treatment and was suspected of having contracted the new crown virus.
这位12岁孩子的父亲在离开时年仅41岁。
The 12-year-old's father was only 41 years old when he left.
在他和妹妹最后的聊天记录中，他交代妹妹把自己的手机留给母亲用，“她的手机太旧太小了，看着眼睛痛。
In his last chat with his sister, he told her that she had left her cell phone for her mother. "Her cell phone is too old and too small and she looks very sore.
”在学生眼中，这是位平易近人，温柔耐心的好老师，“就连上课说话都轻声细语的”。
To the students, it was an approachable, patient, good teacher "who speaks softly even in class."
2014级社会学院学生刘文龙告诉《财经》记者，柯老师作为自己的本科导师，常和学生们交代的是，“有什么困难都可以告诉我，不管是经济上的、还是精神上的。
Liu Wenlong, a 2014 social science student, told Caijing that as her undergraduate tutor, Ms. Ke often told her students, "Any difficulty can be told me, whether it is economic or spiritual.
”这位对学生慷慨的老师，因为一场疾病迅速陷入了危机。
"The teacher, who was generous to her students, quickly fell into crisis because of an illness.
2019年7月29日，柯卉兵在华中科技大学同济医学院附属同济医院被确诊为恶性淋巴肿瘤，而就在几个月前，柯卉兵刚刚评上了教授职称。
July 29, 2019, in Huazhong University of Science and Technology Tongji Hospital attached to the Tongji Medical School was diagnosed as malignant lymphoma, and just a few months ago, Ke Hui Bing had just been awarded the title of professor.
2020年2月11日，同事郭林在水滴筹平台为柯卉兵的治疗筹资。
On February 11, 2020, colleagues Guo Lin in the water drop chip platform for the treatment of creative soldiers to raise funds.
认证信息显示，为了治疗肿瘤，柯卉兵的家庭已经花费了50多万元，很多费用不能报销，并且后续治疗费用估计上百万元。
Certified information shows that in order to treat tumors, the family has spent more than 500,000 yuan, many expenses can not be reimbursed, and the cost of follow-up treatment is estimated to be million yuan.
而在这之前，柯老师已经与病魔斗争了七个多月。
Before that, Miss Ke had been struggling with her illness for more than seven months.
在原定的计划中，2020年1月柯老师会进行造血干细胞移植手术，妹妹与他的配型相合，移植后身体会逐渐好转。
The plan was to have a hematopoietic stem cell transplant in January 2020, when her sister would match his matching model and gradually improve after the transplant.
直到2月11日，所有看到那条筹款信息的同学、同事们都认为：柯老师还是有希望的。
Until Feb. 11, all the students and colleagues who saw the fund-raising message thought: Teacher Ke is hopeful.
他们没想到，因疑似感染新冠病毒被隔离，8天后老师就离开了他们。
They did not expect the teacher to leave them eight days later after being quarantined for suspected infection with the new crown virus.
自2020年除夕开始，柯卉兵就出现了反复高烧，后期还出现了咳嗽。
Since the 2020 New Year's Eve, creative soldiers appear repeatedly high fever, late cough has also appeared.
2月4日，值班医生给柯卉兵下了病危通知书，让家属加强看护。
Feb. 4, the doctor on duty to the soldiers under the critical notice of illness, let the family strengthen care.
通知书显示，“患者肿瘤进展、反复发热，考虑嗜血细胞综合征。
The notification showed that "the patient had tumor progression, recurrent fever, and hemophilic syndrome was considered.
随时可能因嗜血、感染加重导致呼吸系统停止，危及生命。
At any time due to haemophilia, increased infection leading to respiratory system stop, life-threatening.
”2月6日的CT检查中，柯老师已经出现了肺部感染症状。
In a CT scan on Feb. 6, Mr. Ke already developed symptoms of lung infection.
医院2月8日开具的一份“患者病情单”显示，医生诊断柯卉兵为“血管免疫母性T细胞淋巴瘤、嗜血细胞综合征、肺部感染（疑似病毒性肺炎）、脾大等”。
The hospital issued a "patient's disease list" on February 8, doctors diagnosed Koehui as "vascular immunity maternal T-cell lymphoma, hemophilic syndrome, lung infection (suspected viral pneumonia), splenic, and so on."
据柯卉兵妹妹柯女士的微博，柯女士当时最担心的是，如果只是普通肺部感染，原本免疫力就不强的柯老师转入定点医院会加大新冠病毒感染风险，且家属无法进行陪护，病情可能恶化。
According to Ms. Koehl's micro-blog, Ms. Ke was most worried that if only common lung infection, the immune teachers will be transferred to the designated hospital will increase the risk of new crown virus infection, and family members can not accompany, the disease may worsen.
柯女士称，当时柯老师所在医院同一层楼已经出现了七八个医护人员感染，而主治医生已经去了前线抗疫。
Ms. Ke said there had been seven or eight cases of infection on the same floor at her hospital, and doctors had gone to the front line to fight the disease.
她能理解疫情下医院的难处：当时所在医院的走廊里消毒瓶里的消毒水已经空了三天，护士们也缺少防护服，“这场瘟疫让在武汉治疗的重症之人难上加难。
She understood the difficulty of hospitals with epidemics: disinfectant bottles had been empty for three days in the corridors of the hospital, and nurses lacked protective clothing.
”她在微博上写道。
"she wrote on the microblog.
2月6日，柯女士在微博上称哥哥的治疗已经基本停止，原因是常规的药品和血制品都供应不上，而没有血制品的支持，任何化疗和移植治疗（大剂量化疗）都不敢进行。
On 6 February, Ms. Ke reported on Weibo that her brother's treatment had largely stopped because conventional medicines and blood products were not available and that no chemotherapy or transplant treatment (large doses of chemotherapy) could be carried out without the support of blood products.
2月10日，柯卉兵进入了隔离病房。
Feb. 10, creative soldiers entered the isolation ward.
前一天，柯女士见到了哥哥，但没想到那就是最后一面。
The day before, Ms. Ke had met her brother, but she had not expected that it would be the last.
哥哥被隔离一天后，柯女士发现他回复消息没有以前及时了。
A day after her brother was isolated, Ms. Coe found that his reply had not been timely.
家人询问柯卉兵情况，他只回复了两个字“还好”。
Family members asked Koehui soldiers, he only replied to the two words "OK."
柯女士知道，哥哥向来“报喜不报忧”。
Ms. Ke knew that her brother was always "happy without sorrow."
即使自己高烧不退，在床上无法自理，也不愿意让家人担心。
Even if their own high fever, unable to care for themselves in bed, and do not want to worry their families.
隔离两天后，柯卉兵进行了第一次核酸检测，显示为阴性，对于家人来说这是“唯一的好消息”。
Two days after isolation, Koehui soldiers carried out the first nucleic acid test, showing negative, for the family is "the only good news."
当时家人的希望是，再等待第二次核酸检测的结果，如果依然是阴性就可以转院治疗。
The hope of the family was that the results of the second nucleic acid test, if still negative, could be transferred to hospital.
“有一线希望，我们永远都不要放弃”。
"There is a glimmer of hope that we will never give up."
其间，柯女士曾多次在微博上求助，希望能有机会转出外地治疗或转院治疗，家人在家“如坐针毡”。
During this time, Ms. Ke on Weibo on many occasions, hoping to have the opportunity to be transferred out of treatment or hospital treatment, the family at home "like a needle."
但柯卉兵的家人、学生都没想到的是，进入隔离病房，化疗停止后病情急剧恶化，2月19日凌晨6时，柯卉兵去世。
But the family, students did not expect to be creative, into the isolation ward, chemotherapy stopped the disease deteriorated sharply, February 19 6 a.m., Kaohui soldiers died.
家人赶到医院的时候，由于病房隔离，没能见到柯老师最后一面。
When the family arrived at the hospital, due to the isolation of the ward, did not see Miss Ke last side.
看着殡仪馆的车将柯老师送走，家人能做的也只有在路边跪送。
Looking at the funeral parlour car will send Mr. Ke away, the family can only do in the roadside kneel.
柯老师去世七天后，柯女士在微博上写道：是对生活的热爱，让哥哥熬了半年多的病痛坚持下来，却没想到因为隔离停止治疗匆匆走了。
Ms. Ke wrote on the microblog seven days after the death of Miss Ke: It was love for life that kept my brother suffering for more than half a year.
柯老师喜欢给家人拍照，每次拍完都会洗出来做成相册和照片墙；武大樱花开的时候，柯老师会骑着自行车带着妹妹去武大看樱花，即使满头大汗也充满热情。
Ke likes to take pictures of his family. He washes them into albums and photo walls after each shoot. When the cherry blossoms bloom, Mr. Ke takes her sister to Wuda to see the cherry blossoms, even though she sweats passionately.
他也会用积极阳光的态度影响学生，遇上家庭条件不太好的学生时，他会讲述自己从一名农村孩子到教授的经历。
He also influences his students in a positive light, talking about his experience from a rural child to a professor when he meets a student from a disadvantaged family.
“老师说坚持下去没有什么不可能。
"The teacher said there was nothing impossible about holding on.
他是一种引导的力量。
He is a guiding force.
”一位学生说。
"said one of the students.
柯老师在农村长大，现在父母兄弟也仍在农村。
Teacher Ke grew up in the countryside, and now his parents and brothers are still in the countryside.
妻子也是教师，孩子12岁，家庭负担不轻。
The wife is also a teacher and the child is 12 years old and has a heavy family burden.
在柯老师去世后，他的家人在微博上表示不需要任何帮助了，“希望大家关注其他非肺炎重症患者的存活问题”。
After Ke's death, his family said on Weibo that they did not need any help. "I hope everyone is concerned about the survival of other non-pneumonia patients."
柯老师为人一直朴实、低调。
Mr. Ke has always been a simple, low-key person.
不少学生都是在看到朋友圈转发的那条水滴筹链接之后，才知道柯老师生病了。
Many students in the circle of friends forward to see the water droplet link, only to know that Miss Ke is ill.
一位学生说，自己印象中的柯老师还是课堂上朴实又可爱的样子，看到老师在病床上消瘦的样子，“一下子就哽咽了。
One student said he was impressed by the simplicity and loveliness of the class and saw the teacher wasting away in his hospital bed.
”一位同事说，2019年7月他去医院看柯老师时，他精神状态还不错，还嘱托对方要注意身体。
"When he went to the hospital to see Miss Ke in July 2019, he was in good spirits and asked the caller to pay attention to his health, a colleague said.
确诊罹患肿瘤后，柯卉兵仍在继续工作，去西安开会。
After the diagnosis of cancer, creative soldiers continue to work, to Xi'an meeting.
10月份开题答辩时，他仍在给学生指导论文。
He was still giving his student a guidance paper when he opened his defence in October.
柯卉兵此前研究的领域是社会保障与社会福利，曾主持两个国家社科基金项目。
Formerly the research field is social security and social welfare, has presided over two national social science fund projects.
在水滴筹认证信息中，柯老师的师弟孙健留言称，当年柯卉兵读完博士后放弃了高薪职业选择做老师，想着“中国的社会保障刚起步，想好好研究，教书育人”。
In the water droplet authentication information, Miss Ke's younger brother Sun Jian said that in that year, after seeing a Ph.D. student quit high-paying career options as a teacher, thinking, "China's social security is just beginning, want to study, teach people."
学生刘文龙仍记得大二时的一节课，柯老师花了很长时间讲解社会救助中，“爱”如何体现。
Students Liu Wenlong still remember a sophomore class, Ke spent a long time explaining social assistance, "love" how to reflect.
那节课上他提到最多的一句话，在怀念他的同学们看来，也是柯老师人生的一个注脚，“爱是恒久忍耐，又有恩慈”。
That lesson he mentioned the most words, in the memory of his classmates, is also a note to the life of Miss Ke, "Love is patient and kind."
（文中张伟为化名，实习生马可欣对此文亦有帮助，感谢所有在采访中提供帮助的人）（本文首刊于2020年3月2日发布的《财经》杂志）。
(Zhang Wei is a pseudonym, intern Ma Kexin is also helpful to this article, thanks to all those who helped in the interview) (Caijing magazine, first published on March 2, 2020).
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
逝者｜华科四位教授：新冠疫情让他们永远留在2020年的寒春。
Four professors: The new crown makes them stay in the cold spring of 2020 forever.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "晚点LatePost";。
var nickname = & quot; late at LatePost & quot;;
var msg_title = "逝者｜华科四位教授：新冠疫情让他们永远留在2020年的寒春";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; deceased & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "他们是贡献卓越的科研工作者，也是诲人不倦的教育者。
var msg _ desc = & quot; they are distinguished researchers and tireless educators.
他们是家里的哥哥、丈夫、母亲和父亲，他们本不应该在2020年的春天离开​。
They are the family's brothers, husbands, mothers and fathers, who should not have left the scene in the spring of 2020.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="晚点LatePost";。
var title = & quot; late at LatePost & quot;;
