85%中小企业现金难撑3个月，自救他救合力应对疫情大考。
85% of small and medium-sized enterprises cash for three months, self-help him to cope with the epidemic.
杨秀红。
Yang Xiuhong.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
《财经》记者采访的多家VC高管均表示，中小企业的现金流管理至关重要，如果现金流枯竭，企业很难摆脱倒闭的命运。
Many VC executives interviewed by Caijing said cash-flow management by small and medium-sized companies was crucial, and if cash flow dried up, it would be difficult for companies to get out of business.
目前正在通过各种方式帮助被投企业解决现金流问题文 |《财经》记者杨秀红王颖陆玲张欣培编辑 | 陆玲裁员、倒闭，还是想尽各种办法活下去？2020年的新冠肺炎疫情，令资金链本就脆弱的中小企业，遭遇一场大考。
Caijing's reporter, Yang Xiuhong Wang, Lu Ling Zhang Xinpei, has laid off workers and closed down, or is she trying to survive by all means? The 2020 outbreak of pneumonia has left small and medium-sized companies with fragile money links in a big test.
庚子鼠年，疫情肆虐。
Gengzi Year of the Rat, ravaging epidemic.
很多企业没能逃脱疫情对经济的重压。
Many businesses have failed to escape the economic strain of the epidemic.
仅2月以来，就有包括K歌之王、兄弟连、明兮大语文等在内的多家中小企业宣布倒闭。
Since February alone, a number of small and medium-sized enterprises, including the King of Kings, the Brothers Company and the Ming language, have closed down.
明兮大语文创始人王嘉树道出公司关停的背后原因：在最新的融资中,投资方因为疫情原因而放弃投资。
Wang Jiashu, founder of the Chinese language group, points out the reason behind the company's shutdown: in the latest funding, investors gave up investment because of the outbreak.
一家处于风口浪尖的在线教育机构，其融资尚有困难，其他中小企业会遭遇怎样的困境？近期，《财经》记者采访了数家中小企业以及十多家投资机构。
In recent days, Caijing interviewed several small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) as well as more than a dozen investment institutions in a troubled online educational institution with difficulty in raising capital.
据《财经》记者了解，目前，这些VC机构多在春节前后召开了紧急会议，与公司投资的数十家乃至数百家企业沟通，商讨如何应对这次罕见疫情给企业带来的冲击，有些VC公司则在协助个别企业破解经营上的生死之局。
According to Caijing reporter, at present, most of these VC organizations held emergency meetings around the Spring Festival, with dozens or even hundreds of companies invested in the company to discuss how to deal with the impact of this rare outbreak of business, some VC companies are helping individual companies break the business of life and death.
“我们投资的一家商旅企业，因为受到疫情影响，国际国内航班停飞，已为客户无条件退了几十万张机票。
"We have invested in a business enterprise, because of the impact of the epidemic, international and domestic flights were stopped, customers have unconditionally returned hundreds of thousands of tickets.
仅春节一个假期，这家企业的业务退款就已达6亿－7亿元。
During the Spring Festival alone, the business refund of this enterprise has reached 600-700 million yuan.
”2月12日晚，春光里产业资本集团创始人杨守彬对《财经》记者称。
On the night of February 12, Yang Shoubin, founder of Chungwang Industrial Capital Group, told Caijing.
一些VC机构已开始帮助被投企业落实融资问题。
Some VC institutions have begun to help investment firms to implement financing issues.
2月13日，华创资本管理合伙人吴海燕戴着口罩，去小区门口接待一位同城快递，签署了几份工商变更协议，这将完成去年底起就在法律流程里的一个新投资在实质交割之前的必须手续。
On February 13, Wu Haiyan, a partner in Huacheng Capital Management, went to the gate of the community to receive a courier, signed several business change agreements, which will complete a new investment in the legal process from the end of last year before the actual delivery of the necessary formalities.
2月12日，中国投资协会创业投资专业委员会（简称“中国创投委”）发布的一份疫情对创投机构和其投资企业影响的调研报告显示，近90%的调研对象认为此次疫情对创投行业影响很大或有一定影响。
A survey on the impact of the epidemic on VCs and their investment enterprises, published on Feb. 12 by the China Investment Association's Venture Capital Commission, showed that nearly 90 percent of the respondents thought the epidemic had a strong or moderate impact on the venture capital industry.
受疫情影响最为严重的行业包括消费产品和服务业，特别是线下消费零售餐饮和服务行业；物流与交通运输；文化及娱乐传媒，特别是影视行业；制造业特别是劳动密集型工业制造行业。
The sectors most affected by the epidemic include consumer goods and services, particularly offline consumer retail catering and services; logistics and transport; cultural and entertainment media, particularly the film and television industry; and manufacturing, particularly labour-intensive industrial manufacturing.
近日，随着国内非湖北地区新增病例降至个位数，国内企业的复工复产被提上日程，不过整体复工率依然堪忧。
In recent days, with new cases falling to single digits in non-Hubei areas of China, the resumption of domestic enterprises is on the agenda, although the overall rate of resumption of work remains worrying.
2月25日，工信部的调查数据显示，全国中小企业的复工率目前只有30%左右。
On February 25, Ministry of Industry and Communications survey data showed that the national SME return to work rate is only about 30%.
如何应对此次疫情带来的冲击？《财经》记者采访的多家VC高管均表示，中小企业的现金流管理至关重要，如果现金流枯竭，企业很难摆脱倒闭的命运。
Many VC executives interviewed by Caijing said cash-flow management by small and medium-sized companies was crucial and it would be hard for companies to get out of business if cash flow dried up.
目前正在帮助被投企业解决现金流问题。
Assistance is being provided to investment firms to address cash flow problems.
管理现金流，需要从止血、造血、输血三方面着手。
Management of cash flow, the need to stop bleeding, hematopoiesis, blood transfusion three aspects.
关于止血和造血，《财经》记者采访的多位VC高管为其投资的企业提供了多项建议，包括砍掉资金流消耗过多的业务、与员工协商缓发薪酬和降低薪酬，相关差价公司用对应期权来补偿，让被投企业在业务上互帮互助等。
With regard to hemostasis and hematopoiesis, VC executives interviewed by Caijing provided advice to the companies in which they invested, including cutting operations that drain capital flows, negotiating with employees to slow down pay and pay cuts, compensating firms with options, and helping each other in their businesses.
对于输血，多位VC高管则表示，目前政府针对中小企业出台的扶持措施“远水难解近渴”，很多措施难以实际落地。
As for blood transfusions, many VC executives said the government's current support measures for small and medium-sized enterprises "distant water does not quench thirst", many measures can not be practical landing.
他们给政府提出了一些建议，如一些有能力的城市成立专项扶持基金；让银行建立绿色通道，尽快为中小企业发放贷款；将企业社保由缓交改为免交等。
They made some suggestions to the government, such as setting up special support funds for some capable cities, letting banks set up green channels, granting loans to small and medium-sized enterprises as soon as possible, and changing the social security of enterprises from deferment to exemption.
对于疫情过后的投资市场，多位VC高管认为，在经济寒冬和罕见疫情的双重冲击下活下来的企业，将会更具投资价值。
In the post-epidemic investment market, VC executives believe that companies that survive the double winters of an economic winter and rare outbreaks will have more investment value.
目前，一些VC公司投资的线上和生鲜领域的企业，业务迎来爆发式增长，有生鲜企业的单月业务量已经翻倍。
At present, some VC companies to invest in the online and fresh fields of enterprises, business ushered in explosive growth, fresh business has doubled the volume of a single month.
不过，随之而来的问题则是，疫情过后，这些企业如何继续留住新增客户。
But the question then arises as to how these companies can continue to retain new customers after the epidemic.
星陀资本创始合伙人刘泽辉对《财经》记者表示，“疫情会倒逼传统企业自我革新，一些没有数字化运营能力、管理较弱的公司要出清一批。
"The epidemic will force traditional companies to innovate on their own," Liu Ze-hui, a founding partner of Star Capital, told Caijing.
预计未来很多公司都会加大在数字化建设、供应链方面的投入。
In the future, many companies are expected to increase their investment in digital construction, supply chain.
”“灾难并不必然催生伟大企业，但有的企业会因灾难而伟大。
"Disasters do not necessarily lead to great businesses, but some businesses can be great because of them.
”杨守彬称。
"said Yang.
现状：九成中小企业或受波及2月10日，春节之后复工首日，在公司员工大会上，新潮传媒CEO张继学宣布裁员500人，占总员工数的10%，高管集体降薪20%。
Zhang Jixue, chief executive of trendy media, announced 500 job cuts, or 10 percent of the workforce, and a 20 percent pay cut for executives at the company's employees' meeting on the first day after the Spring Festival holiday.
“我带领团队战胜过2003年的非典，战胜过2008年的地震，但害怕败给2020年的新冠，因为街上没有人，也就没有消费者，这个有点可怕。
"I led the team through SARS in 2003 and defeated the earthquake in 2008, but I was afraid of losing to the 2020 crown because there were no people on the streets and there were no consumers, which was a bit scary.
”张继学在当天的内部讲话中表示，“新潮账上尽管还有近10亿元现金，但如果收入归零，也只能活六七个月。
Zhang Jixue said in an internal speech on the same day that "despite nearly a billion yuan in cash, the trendy accounts will live only six to seven months if revenues go down to zero.
”新潮宣布裁员之前不久，北京K歌之王发布内部信，宣布公司破产，并与全体员工解除劳动合同。
The announcement comes shortly after Beijing's Kings issued an internal letter declaring the company bankrupt and terminating labour contracts with all its employees.
无独有偶，几乎在同一时间，兄弟连创始人李超发布《致兄弟连全体学员、员工、股东的一封信》，表示因受疫情影响，即日起，兄弟连北京校区停止招生，员工全部遣散。
Similarly, almost at the same time, brother company founder Li Chao issued a "Letter to all the students, employees and shareholders," said that due to the impact of the epidemic, the brothers even stopped enrollment in the Beijing campus, and all staff were discharged.
在三亚经营着一家饭店的李奇告诉《财经》记者，每年的盈利几乎全凭借过年时间。
Rich, who runs a restaurant in Sanya, tells Caijing that profits are made almost entirely through the New Year.
“一年中大部分时间基本盈亏平衡，只有到过年才能赚出一年的利润。
"It takes most of the year to break even and only in the New Year to make a year's profit."
今年我们初二就关门了。
We closed on the second day of school this year.
大概亏了200多万元，不打算再做了。
Probably lost more than two million yuan, no more plans to do it.
”“我每天都在想该如何保住公司，如何保住300个员工。
"Every day I wonder how I can keep my company and how I can keep 300 employees.
”一家健身行业连锁品牌高管张亮告诉《财经》记者，“我们面临着两到三个月的低谷期。
Zhang Liang, a chain-brand fitness executive, told Caijing: "We face a two to three-month trough.
三个月的员工工资基本亏损，超过1000万元，房租水电和器材损耗，接近600万元，这基本上等于公司全年的利润了。
Three months of basic salary losses, more than 10 million yuan, rent utilities and equipment losses, close to 6 million yuan, which is almost the same as the company's full-year profits.
”按照文旅部要求，1月27日之后包括出境团队在内的所有团队游业务、机票加酒店服务全部暂停。
All group tours, including outbound tours, air tickets and hotel services have been suspended after January 27, according to the ministry.
以提成为主要收入的导游们也只能拿最低工资。
Guides who make up the bulk of their income also get the minimum wage.
导游金杰告诉《财经》记者，其实很多旅行社导游没有底薪，有底薪也只是最低工资标准，保险之类都是自己交，根本没办法支持家庭的正常运转。
In fact, many tour guides do not have a basic salary, base salary is just the minimum wage, insurance and so on are paid by themselves, there is no way to support the normal functioning of the family.
即使那些处在风口浪尖的在线教育机构，有的也难熬过寒冬。
Even those online educational institutions that are on the cusp of the storm have struggled to weather the winter.
2月中旬，曾被誉为大语文赛道黑马的在线教育机构“明兮大语文”宣布公司终止运营。
In mid-February, an online educational institution known as the Big Language Racetrack Blackhorse announced the company's closure.
该公司创始人王嘉树道出了背后原因：在最新的融资中,投资方因为疫情原因而放弃投资。
The company's founder, Wang Jiashu, gave the reason behind the move: in the latest financing, investors gave up investment because of the outbreak.
疫情之下，账上尚有10亿元现金的企业不得不裁员自救，处于融资风口的企业宣布倒闭，更多资金不足的中小企业现状如何？近日，清华大学经济管理学院、北京大学汇丰商学院联合调研了995家中小企业，涵盖了餐饮、零售等多个行业。
In the wake of the outbreak, companies with 1 billion yuan in cash had to lay off workers to help themselves, and companies in the financial crisis were declared bankrupt and more of them were underfunded.
数据显示，其中34%的企业账上现金能维持生存的时间只有1个月，33.1%的企业可以维持2个月，17.91%的企业可以维持3个月。
The data show that 34 per cent of businesses have only one month in which cash can survive, 33.1 per cent can last two months and 17.91 per cent can last three months.
也就是说85%的企业账上余额仅够最多维持3个月。
This means that 85 per cent of the enterprise accounts have only enough balance to last up to three months.
《财经》记者近期采访的多位VC高管表示，新冠肺炎疫情对被投企业影响不容忽视。
Caijing recently interviewed a number of VC executives said that the new crown pneumonia epidemic on the impact of investment enterprises can not be ignored.
2月10日复工日以来，他们投资的大部分企业实现了线上办公，但与正常运营相比，还有较大差距。
Since resuming work on February 10, most of the companies they have invested in have gone online, but there is still a big gap compared to normal operations.
受到疫情影响，部分被投企业损失惨重，还有一部分企业逆流而上，如生鲜电商和互联网相关企业等。
Affected by the epidemic, some of the investment enterprises suffered heavy losses, and some enterprises upstream, such as live electricity business and Internet-related enterprises.
“从整体来看，这场疫情的影响无疑是非常广泛的。
"Overall, there is no doubt that the impact of the epidemic is very widespread.
可能有90%的企业会因疫情而面临经营压力，剩下的10%的企业，会因为疫情带来业务上的逆势增长。
Ninety percent of businesses are likely to be under operational pressure from the epidemic, with the remaining 10 percent experiencing adverse business growth due to the epidemic.
部分企业面临的业务损失可能相当惨重，如纯线下场景的企业、国家禁止开业的度假公寓、现金流极不充足的企业等。
Some companies can face heavy business losses, such as off-line scenario businesses, state-banned vacation apartments, and cash-strapped businesses.
”根据公司团队近期的分析统计以及与被投企业的沟通，杨守彬对《财经》记者总结道。
"According to the company's recent analysis of the statistics and communication with the investment enterprises, Yang Shuping told Caijing News.
“目前一些中小企业的运营面临很多困难，比如产能问题，上游工厂未开工、原料供应不上，客户停标或暂缓投标等。
"Some small and medium-sized enterprises are now facing difficulties in operating, such as capacity problems, upstream plants not operating, raw materials not available, customers stopping bids or suspending bids."
”英诺天使基金副总裁彭程对《财经》记者表示。
Peng Cheng, vice-president of Ino Angel Fund, told Caijing.
吴海燕亦对《财经》记者表示，“一些面向中小微企业的SaaS公司，它们的客户受到疫情冲击，现金流紧张，自然也会延迟或者减少系统采购投入，进而会影响这些SaaS公司的运营现金流。
"Some SaaS companies for MSMEs, whose customers are hit by the epidemic and have tight cash flow, will naturally delay or reduce the system procurement input, which in turn will affect the operating cash flow of SaaS," Wu told Caijing.
”为了解疫情之下中小企业和投资机构的状况，中国创投委近期对近200家创投机构进行了随机抽样调查。
To understand the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises and investment institutions under the epidemic, the CVIAC recently conducted a random sample survey of nearly 200 VCs.
其调查结果显示，近90%的调研对象认为此次疫情对创投行业影响很大或有一定影响。
The survey results show that nearly 90% of the respondents think the epidemic has a strong or moderate impact on the venture capital industry.
超过95%的调研对象表示此次疫情对已投项目产生了不利影响，其中认为影响很大的占比23.35%；认为有一定影响的占比61.93%。
More than 95 per cent of the respondents said the epidemic had had a negative impact on the projects put forward, with 23.35 per cent believing that the impact was significant and 61.93 per cent believing that it had had an impact.
此外，超过70%的创投企业和天使投资人认为疫情将对“双创”（大众创业、万众创新）产生严重影响或较大影响。
In addition, more than 70 percent of venture capital and angel investors believe the epidemic will have a severe or significant impact on "double creation" (mass entrepreneurship, mass innovation).
一项对于延期开工的调查结果则更显严峻。
The results of a survey into the delay are even more grim.
近日，中国社会科学院社会学研究所牵头推出的《企业开工力调查·报告》显示，疫情导致企业延迟开工，约96%的企业难以承受两个月以上的延期。
Some 96 percent of companies can ill afford a two-month extension, according to the Work Start Survey Report, led by the Institute of Social Sciences of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.
其中，约67.7%的被调查企业表示最多能承受两周以内的延期，能够承受2周-1个月延期开工的企业约占五分之一，能够承受1个月以上延期开工的企业为7.1%，能够承受2个月以上延期的企业仅占1.7%。
Of these, 67.7 per cent indicated that they could afford extensions of up to two weeks, about one fifth of enterprises could afford a two-week-to-one-month extension, 7.1 per cent of enterprises were able to withstand a delay of more than one month and only 1.7 per cent of enterprises were able to withstand delays of more than two months.
2月末，尽管国内非湖北地区的新增病例降至个位数，但企业复工复产的状况依然不容乐观。
At the end of February, despite the fact that the number of new cases fell to single digits in non-Hubei areas of the country, the situation remains bleak.
2月25日，工信部产业政策与法规司二级巡视员舒朝晖表示，中小企业特别是小微企业的生产、办公条件、资金、人员等条件较弱，受疫情影响较深，是复工复产的难点，也是重点。
On February 25, Shu Chaohui, Second Inspector of the Industrial Policy and Regulations Department of the Ministry of Industry and Communications, said that small and medium-sized enterprises, especially small and micro-enterprises, had weaker production, office conditions, capital and personnel.
“工信部根据对240万户使用云平台和电商平台的中小企业进行监测，全国中小企业的复工率目前只有30%左右。
"Based on the monitoring of 2.4 million SMEs using cloud platforms and e-commerce platforms, the return rate of SMEs nationwide is currently only about 30 per cent.
”工信部总工程师田玉龙则表示，当前，中小企业开工复工复产主要面临“五难”，包括复工难、用工难、产业链配套比较难、资金支撑难、订单交付难等。
Tian Yulong, chief engineer at the Ministry of Industry and Communications, said SMEs faced "five difficulties" in resuming work, including the difficulty of resuming work, the difficulty of employing workers, the difficulty of matching industrial chains, the difficulty of supporting funds and the difficulty of delivering orders.
不过，有不少企业主向《财经》记者表示，复工审批前期十分严格，后期随着疫情的缓解，审批变得相对宽松，越是经济发达的地区，比如浙江、江苏，越能够根据市场反馈意见，及时进行动态调整。
However, a number of business owners told Caijing that the pre-approval period for resuming work was very strict. As the epidemic eased in the latter part of the year, the more economically developed areas, such as Zhejiang and Jiangsu, were able to make timely and dynamic adjustments based on market feedback.
“最开始是填写7个文件的模板递交申请，还要一级一级层层审查，现在改成递交申请就可以自行复工了。
"The initial step is to fill in the template for seven documents and then go through the layers of review, and now you can go back to work by yourself by submitting your application.
”有杭州企业感叹，获批效率也更高了，“我们14日递交复工申请，17日就获批。
"Hangzhou enterprises lament that the efficiency of the approval is higher," we submitted the application for resumption of work on the 14th, approved on the 17th.
”驰援：远水难解近渴在中小企业的“至暗时刻”，从中央到地方，一系列的救助政策和措施迅速出台。
In the "darkest hour" of small and medium-sized enterprises, from the central government to the local, a series of rescue policies and measures were quickly put in place.
2月1日，央行、财政部、银保监会等五部门联合发文，出台了强化金融对疫情防控工作支持的30条举措。
On February 1, the Central Bank, the Ministry of Finance and the CBRC jointly issued a letter outlining 30 measures to strengthen financial support for epidemic prevention and control.
其中，明确指出对受疫情影响较大的批发零售、住宿餐饮等行业，以及有发展前景但受疫情影响暂遇困难的企业，特别是小微企业，不得盲目抽贷、断贷、压贷。
Among them, it is clearly pointed out that enterprises, especially micro and small enterprises, that have great prospects for development but are temporarily affected by the epidemic, should not blindly draw loans, stop lending or depress loans.
2月2日，苏州市率先出台了《支持中小企业共渡难关的十条政策意见》。
On February 2, Suzhou City took the lead in issuing "Ten Policy Opinions on Supporting SMEs to Overcome Difficulty Together."
提出确保小微企业信贷余额不下降、实施援企稳岗政策、缓缴社会保险费等十条意见。
Ten suggestions are put forward to ensure that the credit balance of micro and small enterprises does not decrease, implement stabilization policy and defer social insurance premiums.
据了解，该政策执行期暂定为自政策发布之日起的三个月。
It is understood that the policy implementation period is tentatively set at three months from the date of issuance of the policy.
随后，北京、上海、青岛等地也迅速推出类似的积极政策。
Subsequently, Beijing, Shanghai, Qingdao and other places also quickly launched similar active policies.
此前，已有许多大型企业纷纷主动出台措施，支持中小企业。
Previously, many large enterprises have taken the initiative to support small and medium-sized enterprises.
1月28日，万达宣布对全国323个购物中心从1月25日至2月29日，实行为期36天的租金及物业费全免政策。
On 28 January, Wanda announced a 36-day rent and property fee waiver for 323 shopping centres across the country from 25 January to 29 February.
龙湖、华润、保利等地产商纷纷跟进。
Longhu, China Resources, Poly and other property developers have followed suit.
据不完全统计，目前全国有近500家百货购物中心主动减租。
According to incomplete statistics, there are nearly 500 department stores across the country active rent reduction.
在2月20日举行的国务院联防联控机制发布会上，人社部、财政部、住建部等部门介绍了阶段性减免企业社保费、医保费和缓缴住房公积金的政策情况，预计规模将超5000亿元。
At the launch of the Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism of the State Council on February 20, the Ministry of Human Services, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Housing and Construction introduced the policy of phasing out enterprise social insurance premiums, medical insurance fees and deferred payment of housing provident funds, expected to exceed 500 billion yuan.
2月25日的国务院常务会议则提出，对符合条件、流动性遇到暂时困难的中小微企业包括个体工商户贷款本金，付息可延期到6月30日，并免收罚息。
The regular meeting of the State Council on Feb. 25 proposed that interest payments could be extended to June 30 for MSMEs that meet the conditions and have temporary difficulties with liquidity, and that interest payments could be extended until June 30 with no penalty.
同时表示增加再贷款、再贴现额度5000亿元，重点用于中小银行加大对中小微企业的信贷支持。
It also said it would increase refinancing and rediscount the amount of 500 billion yuan, mainly for small and medium-sized banks to increase credit support for MSMEs.
在很多中小企业主和投资人看来，这次纾困政策扶持力度之大、出台速度之快，是历史上从来都没有过的。
For many small and medium-sized business owners and investors, the bail-out policy support is so strong, the speed of release, is unprecedented in history.
但也因为新政出来时间较短、较仓促，真正执行落实到企业身上尚需时日。
But also because the New Deal came out of a relatively short time, faster, real implementation of the implementation of enterprises will take time.
多位VC高管则表示，恐怕远水难解近渴。
Many VC executives said, I am afraid distant water difficult to quench thirst.
“目前政府出台了一系列信贷政策、财政政策来扶持中小企业，但时效不会立即显现。
"The government has put in place a series of credit policies and fiscal policies to support small and medium-sized enterprises.
有些政策也不是很现实，比如减免房租，除非是政府相关部门的运营主体，其他的房东自己都成问题。
Some policies, such as rent relief, are not very realistic, unless they are the main operators of government departments, and other landlords have their own problems.
”刘泽辉在接受《财经》记者采访时直言。
In an interview with Caijing, Liu said bluntly.
在优客工场创始人毛大庆看来，推迟、减免税收对缓解今天企业所面临的困难没有直接作用。
According to Mao Daqing, founder of Youku Workshop, postponing or waiving taxes has no direct effect on alleviating the difficulties facing businesses today.
“五险一金”递延虽然可以对劳动密集型企业产生一些作用，但地方政府在执行上尚有待落地。
"Five risks, one gold" deferred may have some effect on labor-intensive enterprises, but the implementation of local governments has yet to land.
北京大学国家发展研究院副院长黄益平则撰文指出，中央银行与监管部门的支持政策应该向网络银行或者城商行倾斜。
Huang Yiping, vice-president of the National Development Research Institute at Peking University, wrote that central banks and regulators should support policies that favor online banks or city firms.
“但最近央行的3000亿元专项再贷款，大头去了全国性商业银行，或许不太容易流到中小企业的手中。
"But most of the central bank's $300bn in special refinancing recently went to national commercial banks, and probably not easily to small and medium-sized enterprises."
”针对中小企业的系列扶植政策如何才能落到实处？在杨守彬看来，有些政策在准确性、及时性和普惠性上有待完善。
In Mr Yang's view, some policies need to be improved in terms of accuracy, timeliness and inclusiveness.
他提出了一些建议，如一些有能力的城市成立专项扶持基金；让银行建立绿色通道，尽快为中小企业发放贷款；政府根据企业实际情况，将其社保缓交改为免交等。
He made a number of recommendations, such as the establishment of special support funds in some cities capable of doing so; the establishment of green channels for banks to lend to SMEs as soon as possible; and the replacement of social security deferment by exemption by the Government in accordance with the actual conditions of enterprises.
具体操作上，杨守彬建议，一是设立快速申请贷款的端口，比如集中几家大的银行，针对疫情中的企业，形成一个约定贷款利率，建立在线的审批机制，满足哪些具体条件，企业可以获得贷款。
In practice, Yang suggested, one is to set up a fast-track loan application port, such as a few large banks, for example, to form a contract loan rate, set up an online approval mechanism, to meet specific conditions, enterprises can obtain loans.
“现在的状况是，政策对银行没有约束，依靠银行自觉，哪个银行愿意做就做，不愿意做就不做。
"What is happening is that policy is not binding on banks, that they are self-conscious, that they are willing to do what they do not want to do," he said.
”对此，华创资本管理合伙人吴海燕亦有类似建议。
Wu Haiyan, managing partner of Huacheng Capital, had a similar suggestion.
“小微企业大部分没有可抵押的固定资产，金融机构能否基于企业线上系统里的业务数据、应收账款等情况，综合评估小微企业的贷款偿还能力并且给予信贷。
"MSMEs mostly do not have collateral fixed assets, and financial institutions can comprehensively assess the loan repayment capacity of MSMEs and extend credit on the basis of business data, accounts receivable, etc., in the enterprise online system."
希望银行等金融机构对小微企业的评估办法能够改善，这样才能让它们尽快贷到资金。
It was to be hoped that financial institutions such as banks would improve their assessment of MSMEs so that they could borrow as quickly as possible.
”二是将社保的缓交和免交结合。
The second is the combination of social security deferment and exemption.
目前很多地方政府出台了社保缓交政策，实际上应该将缓交和免交结合，结合企业自身情况，让企业免交2个-3个月社保。
At present, many local governments have introduced social security deferment policy, in fact should be deferred and exempted from the combination of their own circumstances, enterprises are exempted from social security for two to three months.
“不要等到企业没有生命体征了，再进行挽救”。
"Don't wait until the company has no signs of life, then save it."
三是有能力的城市成立疫情专项基金，这部分资金来自政府的引导基金，有的城市有一两百亿元的基金，可以暂时拿出一二十亿元，用于特定扶持。
Third, cities with the capacity to set up a special epidemic fund, which comes from government-directed funds. Some cities have a fund of 120 billion yuan, which can be temporarily allocated one or two billion yuan for specific support.
政府可以遴选一些有发展潜力的企业，进行定向的救助、投资。
The government can select some enterprises with development potential and make targeted aid and investment.
“其实，最重要的是，在各个行业里保持各项基础政策的稳定性、可预期性和透明性，大幅减少各个领域民营企业由于有关部门的过度监管和朝令夕改所遭受的经济损失，给它们提供可以休养生息的时间和环境。
"The most important thing is to maintain the stability, predictability and transparency of the underlying policies in all sectors and to significantly reduce the economic losses suffered by private enterprises in various sectors as a result of excessive regulation and regulatory changes in the sectors concerned, providing them with a time and environment in which to recover."
”易凯资本创始人王冉表示。
Wang Ran, founder of Yi Kai Capital, said.
自救：活下去的N种方式既然“远水难解近渴”，在前所未遇的疫情面前，这一庞大的中小企业群体如何自救？《财经》记者采访的多家VC机构高管表示，正在群策群力帮助被投企业渡过难关。
How can such a large group of small and medium-sized enterprises save themselves in the face of an unprecedented epidemic? Executives at VC institutions interviewed by Caijing said they were working together to help them tide over the difficulties.
多名高管强调，企业最核心的问题就是资金问题。
A number of executives stressed that the central issue for companies is funding.
一旦现金流枯竭，中小企业将面临倒闭风险。
Once cash flow dried up, small and medium-sized enterprises would face bankruptcy risk.
此前，国内餐饮业知名品牌西贝董事长贾国龙曾表示，公司经营告急，春节损失七八亿，员工工资每月支出超1.5亿元，可能撑不过三个月。
Jia Guolong, chairman of a well-known domestic restaurant brand, has said the company is running out of steam, losing 7.8 billion yuan on Spring Festival and 150 million yuan on salaries and wages, which could last three months.
很多中小企业亦在微博、微信等平台表示，疫情令企业经营陷入困境，如果迟迟不能开工，依靠自有资金，很难撑过三个月。
Many small and medium-sized enterprises also in micro-blogging, micro-letter platform, such as the business difficulties caused by the epidemic, if delayed start, relying on their own funds, it will be difficult to survive three months.
前文提及的在线教育机构明兮大语文，即是因为遇到资金困难而倒闭。
The above-mentioned online educational institutions failed because of funding difficulties.
“现金流如同一个企业的血液，在当前疫情下，需要考虑的是，依靠自身造血还是靠外部输血活下去？我认为，维持现金流，需要止血、造血和输血三步。
"Cash flow is like the blood of an enterprise. What needs to be considered in the current epidemic is whether to live on its own blood or through external transfusions? I think there are three steps to maintaining cash flow: bleeding, hematopoiesis and blood transfusion.
”杨守彬称。
"said Yang.
在止血和造血方面，《财经》记者采访的多家VC高管也给出了较为趋同的建议。
In hemostasis and hematopoiesis, Caijing reporter interviewed a number of VC executives also gave more convergent recommendations.
他们认为，目前企业经营，现金为王。
They believe that the current business operations, cash for King.
至于止血的措施，一是企业可考虑是否能够砍掉现金流消耗比较大的业务；二是企业协调上下游，将应付款项改为延期付款等；第三，是否能与员工协商缓发薪酬、降低薪酬。
As for the measures to stop bleeding, first, enterprises can consider whether they can cut down the business with large cash flow consumption; secondly, they can coordinate upstream and downstream payments to deferred payments; and thirdly, they can negotiate with their employees to slow down the payment of their salaries.
这些方法可以帮助企业短期内降低经营的现金流成本。
These methods can help companies reduce cash flow costs in the short term.
另外一方面，VC机构还建议被投企业，让未落地的融资尽快落地，比如疫情前一些项目融资已经谈妥，还差走流程，则建议将其尽快落实。
VC agencies, on the other hand, are also advising investment firms to let off-the-ground financing fall as soon as possible, such as before the epidemic some project financing has been negotiated, but not yet the process, it is recommended that it be implemented as soon as possible.
就造血而言，多名VC高管表示，每个企业都不一样，需要根据自身状况寻找创收条件，比如线下转线上，如鼓励线下餐饮企业开拓线上销售渠道，帮助一些线下销售企业转到直播平台进行销售等。
In terms of hematopoiesis, many VC executives say that companies are different and need to look for income-generating conditions based on their circumstances, such as offline switching, such as encouraging offline catering companies to open up online distribution channels, and helping some offline sales companies to switch to live distribution platforms.
还有一些VC机构则在协调被投企业互帮互助。
There are also VC institutions in the coordination of investment enterprises to help each other.
杨守彬所在的春光里资本近期发起成立了一个春光战“疫”共同体，让被投企业、春光系企业和春光里的合作单位之间有效对接资源与技术，互帮互助。
Yang Shoubin's Spring Guang Li capital recently launched the establishment of a Spring Guang Battle "plague" community, so that investment enterprises, Chunguang Department enterprises and partners in Chunguang effective interface resources and technology, mutual assistance.
吴海燕则建议，这些中小企业要多和上下游企业一起协调，在整个产业链上共渡难关。
Wu Haiyan suggested that these small and medium-sized enterprises and upstream and downstream enterprises to coordinate in the entire industrial chain to tide over difficulties.
刘泽辉则建议中小企业开源节流，自我革新。
Liu Ze-hui advised small and medium-sized enterprises to self-innovation.
“我们建议企业注意控制成本，消减不必要的开支。
"We recommend that companies take care to control costs and cut unnecessary expenses.
营销费用等不能产生当期收益的开支要控制住。
Marketing expenses and other expenses that do not generate current revenue should be controlled.
员工的成本控制虽然不得已，如有必要也得做。
Control the cost of staff, even if it is necessary to do.
一把手要以身作则，跟大家一起共渡难关。
A leader should lead by example and work together to tide over difficulties.
”“这次疫情中，一些数字化运营能力较弱的公司受伤比较大。
"Some companies with less digital capabilities have been hurt more in this outbreak."
估计疫情过后，一些没有线上运营能力、管理较弱的公司可能要出清一批。
It is estimated that in the aftermath of the epidemic, a number of companies without online operational capacity and weak management may have to liquidate.
疫情会倒逼传统企业自我革新，预计未来很多公司都会加大在数字化建设、供应链方面的投入。
The epidemic will force traditional companies to innovate and many are expected to invest more in digital construction and supply chains in the future.
这将会提升整个社会的运营效率，改变行业的竞争格局。
This will enhance the operational efficiency of the whole society and change the competitive pattern of the industry.
”刘泽辉认为。
"Liu thinks.
愉悦资本创始及执行合伙人刘二海认为，企业自身能否创新，将影响其抵御疫情冲击的能力。
Liu Erhai, founder and managing partner of Pleasure Capital, thinks whether the company itself can innovate will affect its ability to withstand the impact of the epidemic.
“相对于高科技企业，劳动力密集型企业在此次疫情中明显受冲击较大。
"Compared with high-tech enterprises, labor-intensive enterprises are obviously impacted by the epidemic.
所以，如果你没有巨大创新，效率又不高，一旦出现问题，就很危险。
So if you don't innovate at all and you're not very efficient, it's dangerous if something goes wrong.
”他认为，虽然被投企业面临不少挑战、甚至危机，但同时也隐藏着很多机遇，需要企业根据情形自己挖掘。
He argues that while investment firms face many challenges and even crises, there are also many hidden opportunities that need to be tapped by companies themselves.
比如对商业模式进行一些改进和延展，从技术里面要效益要创新。
For example, some improvement and extension of the business model, from the inside of the technology to innovation.
比如，瑞幸咖啡去年开始筹备无人零售，今年2月，首台瑞幸无人咖啡机在武汉六七二医院投入使用，满足了特殊形势下无接触的安全卫生标准。
In February, the first Ruixing coffee machine went into service at Wuhan 672Hospital, meeting the safety and hygiene standards of no-contact in special situations.
同时，瑞幸咖啡还开拓其经营范围，包括酒精消毒液、抗菌洗手液等。
At the same time, Ruixin coffee business scope, including alcohol disinfectant, antibacterial hand sanitizer and so on.
不过，瑞幸咖啡最近几年一直处于亏损状态：2017年亏损5637万元，2018年亏损16.2亿元，2019年前三季度净亏损超过17亿元。
However, the company has been losing money in recent years: 563.7 million yuan in 2017, 1.62 billion yuan in 2018 and 1.7 billion yuan in the first three quarters of 2019.
未来能否依靠拓宽经营范围等度过此次疫情危机，尚待观察。
It remains to be seen whether the future can rely on the expansion of business scope and so on through this epidemic crisis.
这些VC高管同时提醒被投企业，在通过上述方法解决资金问题的同时，企业还需考虑这些措施带来的影响。
The VC executives also remind investment firms that they need to consider the impact of such measures as well as addressing their funding problems.
例如降薪，《财经》记者采访的VC机构高管表示，企业在降薪的同时，可以考虑做出补偿方案，比如将降薪改为缓发工资，此外，还可以和员工协商，用公司期权来补偿，从而让员工与公司共克时艰。
For example, VC agency executives interviewed by Caijing said companies could consider compensation packages alongside pay cuts, such as salary cuts to pay suspensions, and negotiate with employees to compensate with company options, making life difficult for them.
一些中小企业的自救方式已受到诟病。
The self-help approach of some SMEs has been criticized.
如国内规模最大的长租公寓上市公司蛋壳公寓，在疫情期间，以不可抗力为由与房东解除合同、同时波及到租客，部分租客面临退租的同时还需向蛋壳公寓缴纳租金贷，这令该公司陷入了舆论漩涡。
The company has been caught in a public-opinion swirl as the nation's largest tenanted condo-listed eggshell apartment has been forced to cancel contracts with landlords and spill over to tenants during the outbreak, with some tenants facing rent rebates and paying rental loans to their shell apartments.
该公司2019年前三季度净现金流为-1.68亿元，也凸显了其面临的资金危机。
The company's net cash flow of -168 million yuan in the first three quarters of 2019 also highlighted its funding crisis.
蜕变：危中有机来势汹汹的疫情对不少行业造成了巨大的冲击。
Metamorphosis: The threat of an organic epidemic in a number of industries has had a huge impact.
不过，危中亦有机。
However, crises are also organic.
在大部分中小企业正在承受疫情带来的次生伤害时，有一部分企业则逆流而上，迎来难得的业务量爆发机遇。
In most small and medium-sized enterprises are suffering from the outbreak of secondary injury, some enterprises upstream, usher in rare business opportunities.
“近期，我们投资的一些纯线上业务公司实现‘逆增长’，比如一款教大家做饭的APP，1月底、2月份以来，其流量相比之前翻了一倍不止。
"Some of the pure-line businesses we have invested in recently, such as an APP that teaches people how to cook, have more than doubled their traffic since late January and February.
还有我们投资的生鲜电商公司，如每日优鲜等，创造出‘非接触式配送’的方式，在大家不方便出门、不方便聚集到超市等密闭空间的情况下，业务需求爆发。
And we invest in fresh electric companies, such as the daily excellent, create 'non-contact distribution' mode, in the case of people are not convenient to go out, not convenient to gather in supermarkets and other closed spaces, business needs erupted.
再有就是远程办公需求的快速增长，一些线上办公软件如石墨（文档协同）等，迎来客户的涌入。
Then there is the rapid growth of telecommuting demand and the influx of online office software such as graphite (document collaboration).
”吴海燕对《财经》记者表示。
"Wu Haiyan told Caijing.
不过，生鲜行业业务量爆发的同时，也遇到了一些难题。
However, the fresh industry business volume explosion, but also encountered some difficulties.
据吴海燕介绍，一是封城封路对供应链的影响。
According to Wu Haiyan, one is the closure of the city road supply chain impact.
经过沟通，目前大型农产品的物流已经恢复了。
As a result of communication, the logistics of large agricultural products have been restored.
二是配送人员短缺，原有配送员回城不方便，生鲜企业进行创新，接纳了一批餐饮企业的服务人员，吸纳进来进行仓库工作。
Second, the shortage of distribution personnel, the original distribution staff back to the city is not convenient, fresh enterprises to innovate, a number of catering enterprises have accepted the service personnel, to absorb into the warehouse work.
未来，这些企业也面临着一些挑战，比如在疫情结束后，如何将疫情期间新增的客户留住，保证业务量的持续增长等。
In the future, these companies will also face challenges, such as how to retain new customers during the epidemic and ensure continued growth in business after the epidemic.
多位投资人表示，医疗健康行业的投融资有望逆势上扬，股市上集体爆发的医药股便是明证。
A number of investors said the health industry is expected to reverse the trend of investment and financing, as evidenced by the stock market's collective outbreak of medicine.
疫情暴露了我国在公共卫生体系建设以及医疗检测、治疗技术等方面的不足，悟空投资创使合伙人王斌认为，未来国家会加大对公共卫生和疾控体系的投入，引导更多资金、资源流向医疗行业的各个垂直领域，“会有越来越多投资机构选择设立单一产业基金，专门投资医疗行业”。
Wang Bin, a founding partner of Wukong Investments, believes that in the future the state will increase its investment in public health and disease control systems and direct more funds and resources to various vertical sectors of the healthcare industry.
在刘二海看来，疫情将重塑民众的行为习惯和消费理念，从而诞生新的产品和服务的需求，比如居家健康。
In Liu's view, the epidemic will reshape people's habits and consumption patterns, creating demand for new products and services, such as home-based health.
“我们投资的一个医学监测项目，患者可以在家进行尿液测试，数据通过智能手机传入诊断中心，用于慢性肾病的辅助诊断，缓解了大医院的压力。
"We have invested in a medical surveillance program that allows patients to take urine tests at home, and the data are passed through smartphones to diagnostic centres for secondary diagnosis of chronic nephropathy, relieving pressure in major hospitals.
”疫情来袭，“宅经济”兴起，线上业态成为了新的投资风口。
With the outbreak of the epidemic and the rise of the "home economy," the online industry has become a new investment outlet.
但线下场景线上化的背后，是人工智能的发展以及高新技术的应用，这条赛道已然成为各路投资人眼中的“香饽饽”。
But the development of artificial intelligence and the application of high-tech have become the "hot spot" in the eyes of investors.
杨守彬坚持未来将继续重仓智能新经济，根据他的判断，未来的企业分为三类：一是人工智能企业；二是智能+传统产业，如智能+消费、智能+文旅等；三是被智能淘汰的企业，“2003年的非典催生国内电子商务的崛起，这一轮疫情则有可能加速产业向移动互联网、智能互联网的升级”。
According to his judgment, future companies will be divided into three categories: artificial intelligence enterprises; intelligent + traditional industries, such as intelligence + consumption, intelligent + cultural brigade, etc.; and enterprises that have been intelligently eliminated.
彭程则关注人工智能机器人在医疗、防控一环的应用，“有些医院把污染隔离区交给机器人，机器人配备了摄像头、麦克风以及听诊器等设备，医生负责在隔离窗外操作机器人，影像还可实时传至远程会诊中心，有助于降低一线医护人员的职业暴露，避免被感染的风险。
"Some hospitals have handed over the containment area to robots, equipped with cameras, microphones and stethoscopes. Doctors operate robots outside the isolation window, and images can be sent to remote consultation centers in real time, helping to reduce the occupational exposure of front-line health workers and avoid the risk of infection
”在多数投资人看来，此次疫情会加剧各个行业的洗牌，2020年，多数行业会出现分水岭，头部优质企业进一步扩大市场占有率，不好的企业可能会被快速淘汰。
The outbreak is seen by most investors as exacerbating the shuffling of industries, with most sectors set to experience a watershed in 2020, head-quality companies gaining further market share and bad companies likely to be rapidly phased out.
与此同时，疫情也打乱了创投机构既有的募投节奏。
At the same time, the epidemic has disrupted the established bidding rhythm of VCs.
不过，多位VC高管认为，短期的疫情不会对投资逻辑、偏好带来重大影响，反而会触发新的投资风向，在经济寒冬和罕见疫情的双重冲击下活下来的企业，将会更具投资价值。
However, many VC executives believe the short-term epidemic will not have a significant impact on investment logic and preferences, but rather will trigger new investment winds that will make it more worthwhile for companies that survive the double winters of an economic winter and rare outbreaks.
杨守彬表示在疫情结束后，会“逆势”增资中小企业：“投资行业一定要逢低买入。
Yang said in the end of the epidemic, will "reverse the trend" capital increase SMEs: "The investment industry must buy low.
之前市场疯狂的时候，估值虚高、泡沫又大，疫情帮我们挤掉了泡沫，一些企业的估值跌到谷底，无疑是个好机会。
When markets were crazy, valuations were inflated and bubbles were huge, the epidemic helped deflate the bubble, and some companies' valuations bottomed out.
”刘泽辉倾向于更加谨慎，“对已经进入投资决策的项目会正常推进，而受疫情影响严重的项目，则可能要重新评估，要看它们有没有足够的核心竞争力来渡过难关。
Mr Liu tends to be more cautious: "Projects that are already making investment decisions will proceed normally, while projects that are severely affected by the epidemic may have to be re-evaluated to see if they have enough core competitiveness to survive."
”不过，他仍然强调，疫情之后能留下来的公司肯定是好公司。
Still, he stressed that the companies that could stay after the epidemic were good ones.
疫情让本就笼罩在资本寒冬中的创投圈雪上加霜。
The epidemic has added to the winterization of capital already shrouded in capital.
彭程表示，未来资源会更多地向三类资本集中：一是红杉、高瓴等头部机构；二是上市公司成立的产业资本，比如BATJ互联网巨头系VC、小米的顺为资本等；三是国有资本。
Peng said that future resources will be more concentrated into three types of capital: first, Sequoia, such as the head office; second, listed companies established industrial capital, such as BATJ Internet giant VC, millet Shun capital; and third, state-owned capital.
2018年后由于资管新规和经济下行的双重影响，人民币募资出现结构性困境。
After 2018, due to the new regulation of capital management and the double impact of the economic downturn, RMB financing appears to be a structural dilemma.
彭程预计未来募资会更加困难，投资会有所放缓，更多的是放在“管”和“退”上，“下一步在保证被投资企业的现金流的情况下，能有退出机会的肯定都会加速退出”。
Mr Pang expects future funding to be more difficult, investment to slow down, and more focus on "regulation" and "exit." The next step, with guaranteed cash flow for the invested companies, is to accelerate exit.
与此同时，近年来创投机构“退出难”也愈发凸显。
At the same time, in recent years venture capital institutions "difficult to exit" has become more prominent.
“目前私募股权一级市场近9万亿元存量压顶，2015年－2016年是市场的大爆发期，如果按照传统‘5+2’基金模式，这两年正好集中到期清算。
"The private-equity tier 1 market is currently peaking at nearly 9 trillion yuan, with 2015-2016 being the market's big break-out period, which would coincide with a concentrated maturity if the traditional '5 + 2' fund model is followed."
”王斌表示，IPO是退出的主渠道，但目前市场容量有限，“减持新规导致退出期又延长了一到两年，时间延长，收益率降低，资金迟迟无法回流，进而加剧了下一轮募资难”。
Mr Wang said IPOs were the main exit channel, but market capacity was limited and "the new rules have led to an extension of the exit period by another year or two, longer periods, lower yields and delayed reversals of capital, further exacerbating the next round of fundraising difficulties."
可以预见的是，2020年资本市场投融资将呈现普遍收紧的态势。
Predictably, there will be a general tightening of capital market investment and financing in 2020.
没有一个冬天不可逾越，也没有一个春天不会到来。
No winter is impassable, no spring does not come.
“如果把疫情看做一场灾难的话，并不必然产生伟大企业，不过，我们也不能排除，可能有企业因为灾难而伟大。
"If we look at the epidemic as a disaster, we don't necessarily have great companies, but we can't rule out that there may be companies that are great because of disasters."
”杨守彬说。
'he said.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click Here for more information about the epidemic:: Archives & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and may not be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
85%中小企业现金难撑3个月，自救他救合力应对疫情大考。
85% of small and medium-sized enterprises cash for three months, self-help him to cope with the epidemic.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "85%中小企业现金难撑3个月，自救他救合力应对疫情大考";。
var msg _ title = & quot; 85% of small and medium-sized businesses didn't have enough cash to last three months to save him and fight against the epidemic.
var msg_desc = "《财经》记者采访的多家VC高管均表示，中小企业的现金流管理至关重要，如果现金流枯竭，企业很难摆脱倒闭的命运。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; VC executives interviewed by Caijing say cash-flow management by small and medium-sized companies is crucial, and that companies can hardly escape bankruptcy if their cash flow dried up.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
