韩国战疫：重点调查新天地教会成员访问武汉情况。
Korean Plague: Focus on investigating the visit of members of Xintiandi Church to Wuhan.
蔡婷贻。
CHOI Ying-yee.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
爱丁堡大学医学院公共卫生专家斯立德哈尔认为，全球疫情已经呈现多处无关联暴发，这意味着新型冠状病毒已大流行，各国政府应该确保医疗系统的医治能力，同时教育民众以减缓传播。
According to public health expert Slytherkhar of the University of Edinburgh School of Medicine, the global epidemic has now taken on multiple unrelated outbreaks, meaning that a new coronavirus has become a pandemic, and governments should ensure that health-care systems are capable of treating them, while educating people to slow transmission.
文 |《财经》记者 蔡婷贻 编辑 | 郝洲“我要代表我们的成员诚心向大家致上最大的歉意。
"On behalf of our members, I sincerely apologize to you all," said Rita Lau, editor and editor of Caijing Caijing.
”造成韩国新型冠状病毒大流行的“新天地”教会会长李万熙双膝下跪，磕头鞠躬，向韩国民众谢罪。
Lee Wan-hee, the head of the New Coronavirus-related Church in South Korea, kneeled on his knees, bowed and thanked the people of South Korea.
3月2日，韩国“新天地”教会会长李万熙召开新冠肺炎疫情记者会，在记者会上，89岁的李万熙行大礼道歉。
At a news conference on March 2, Lee Wanxi, the 89-year-old leader of the New Horizon Church, apologized.
图/法新3月2日，在离首尔一小时的京畿道加平郡研习中心，李万熙举行记者会，同时誓言教会将全力配合政府对抗疫情。
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Lee Wan-hee held a news conference on March 2 at the Gapyeong County Study Center, an hour away from Seoul, vowing full cooperation with the government in the fight against the epidemic.
但是这样的低姿态维持并不久，“安静！ 秩序！”当抗议者人士在记者提问时大声抗议，他忍不住露出他对教徒的军事管理态度。
But such a low profile did not last long, "Quiet! Order!" As protesters shouted at reporters asking questions, he could not help showing his military management of the faithful.
韩国疫情不断升温，每日新确诊人数以3位数增加，3月 3日新增600例，确诊总数在两周内迅速攀升至4812例，其中和“新天地”教会相关的确诊案例就占2418，占比57.4%，发生在大邱教会的则达2136例。
The number of newly diagnosed cases rose by three digits each day, reaching 600 on March 3, and the total number of confirmed cases climbed rapidly to 4,812 within two weeks. Of these, 2418, or 57.4%, were related to the Church of Xintiandi, while 2,136 cases occurred in Daegu Church.
韩国总统文在寅3月3日宣布国家进入战时状态，所有政府部门24小时待命应对疫情，政府将投入30万亿韩元（约合人民币1751亿元）抗疫，他在记者会上也就国内口罩短缺向民众道歉，承诺政府将尽快改善供给问题。
South Korean President Wen Jiabao on March 3 declared a state of war, all government departments on 24-hour standby to deal with the epidemic, the government will invest 30 trillion won (175.1 billion yuan) in the fight against the epidemic.
由于确诊案例不断攀升，抗疫部门宣布全国中小学的开学日期由3月9日再延期2周至3月23日。
Due to the rising number of confirmed cases, the Anti-epidemic Department announced that the opening date of primary and secondary schools throughout the country would be extended for another two weeks, from 9 March to 23 March.
文在寅的宣誓获得病毒专家的肯定，纽约西奈山伊坎医学院病毒和疫苗专家克莱默（Florian Krammer）在社交媒体上表示，这样提高应对等级的做法是防疫应有的态度。
Writing on social media, Florian Kramer, an expert on viruses and vaccines at the Icahn School of Medicine in Mount Sinai, New York, who took the oath under oath, said on social media that such a higher level of response would be the attitude expected of immunization.
爱丁堡大学医学院公共卫生专家斯立德哈尔（Devi Sridhar ）对《财经》记者指出，全球疫情已经呈现多处无关联暴发，这意味着新型冠状病毒已大流行，各国政府应该确保医疗系统的医治能力，同时教育民众以减缓传播。
Devi Sridhar, a public-health expert at the University of Edinburgh School of Medicine, told Caijing that the global epidemic has taken on multiple unrelated outbreaks, meaning that a new coronavirus has become a pandemic, and governments should ensure that health-care systems are capable of treating them, while educating people to slow transmission.
“新天地”教会的法律责任“新天地”教会自韩国疫情于2月21日严重爆发以来，不愿配合交出教会成员名单和准确联络方式被认为是疫情难以控制的主因，相关部门在倍感挫折之余正寻求通过法律途径向“新天地”教会问责。
"Xintiandi" Church's legal responsibility "Xintiandi" Church Since the outbreak of the epidemic in South Korea on February 21, the unwillingness to cooperate with the surrender of church membership and accurate communication methods is considered the main reason for the epidemic's uncontrollable.
京畿道水原地方检察官办公室3月1日就教会在疫情快速传播中所扮演的角色立案调查，接着疫情最集中的大邱市长权泳臻也因为教会屡次交出错误信息，愤而提出刑事指控；随后首尔市政府也向首尔地方检察院提交起诉状，要求检察官依韩国《传染病防治管理法》和《刑法》中的谋杀罪和故意伤害罪起诉李万熙和其他地方教会分支的12名负责人。
On March 1, the Suwon District Attorney's Office opened an investigation into the Church's role in the rapid spread of the epidemic, followed by criminal charges brought by Mayor Kwon Young-jin of Daegu, the most concentrated of the epidemic. The Seoul Metropolitan Government subsequently filed a complaint with the Seoul District Prosecutor's Office for murder and intentional injury under the Infectious Diseases Control Act and the Criminal Code.
首都首尔市市长朴元淳更在社交媒体上敦促韩国检方尽快逮捕李万熙。
Park Yuanchun, mayor of Seoul, urged South Korean prosecutors on social media to arrest Lee as soon as possible.
不过，不少韩国律师认为“新天地”教会阻挠防疫的罪名可能成立，但谋杀罪指控可能不容易成立。
However, many South Korean lawyers believe the Church of Xintiandi may be guilty of obstruction, but murder charges may not be easy.
韩国新冠病毒疫情和“新天地”教会首次受到关注源于“第31号”确诊案例，该名61岁妇人在出现症状后参加多次教会活动，因而造成疫情在韩国暴发不可收拾，迫使韩国社会面对这个神秘教会带来的负面影响。
The outbreak of the virus in South Korea and the first case of concern in the Church of New Horizon stem from the case of the 61-year-old woman who was involved in church activities after the onset of symptoms, causing the outbreak to spiral out of control in South Korea, forcing South Korean society to confront the negative impact of this mysterious church.
韩国政府将调查的焦点转向“新天地”教会和武汉的关系。
The South Korean government shifted the focus of the investigation to relations between the Church of Xintiandi and Wuhan.
韩国司法部指出，新天地在武汉设有分部，42位新天地成员自去年7月起曾拜访过武汉。
The ministry noted that Xintiandi had branches in Wuhan and 42 members of Xintiandi had visited Wuhan since July last year.
不过，教会否认病毒来自教会的武汉成员。
However, the church denied that the virus had come from Wuhan members of the church.
教会发表的声明指出，教会武汉分部的350名信徒自2019年12月后就没入境，“我们希望政府能公布这42个人的正确旅行时间。
According to a statement issued by the Church, 350 members of the Wuhan branch of the Church have not entered the country since December 2019. "We hope the government will announce the correct travel time for these 42 people.
”3月3日，韩国中央灾难安全对策本部指出，经比对发现两名新天地成员今年1月曾经访问武汉，其中一位后来在2月下旬确诊，这名成员是否引发教会大型传播尚在调查中。
"On March 3, the Central Disaster Security Response Ministry said the discovery by comparison of two members of Xintiandi who visited Wuhan in January, one of whom was later confirmed in late February, is still under investigation.
根据统计，新天地大邱教会确诊教徒主要出现症状时点为2月7-10日和2月14-18日；“第31号”病例在2月17日确诊。
According to statistics, the main symptoms of the Taegu church in Xintiandi were 7-10 February and 14-18 February; the case of "No. 31" was confirmed on February 17.
政府防疫部门自2月中开始积极联络教会成员并进行筛检，但是因为教会成员大都倾向于掩盖身份，排查并不顺利。
Since mid-February, the Government's anti-epidemic services have been actively contacting members of the Church and conducting screening, but the screening has not been easy because members of the Church tend to conceal their identities.
2月24日参与主要疫区抗疫的大邱西区卫生所官员确诊感染病毒，被确诊后他承认自己也是“新天地”教会信徒。
On 24 February, officials of the Taegu Western Health Centre, involved in the fight against major epidemics, confirmed the virus and admitted that he was also a member of the Church of Xintiandi.
该名官员主管该地区整体防疫政策，确诊后卫生所50名职员被要求立即回家进行自我隔离。
The officer was in charge of the overall vaccination policy in the area and 50 staff of the post-diagnosis clinic were asked to return home immediately for self-isolation.
让外界感到惊讶的是，确诊案例中20岁-30岁年龄段的病患达29.4%，为所有年龄段中的最高值；女性比例也以62.4%远高于男性的37.6%。
Surprisingly, 29.4 per cent of the patients in the 20-30 age group were diagnosed, the highest among all age groups; the proportion of women was also significantly higher, at 62.4 per cent, compared with 37.6 per cent of men.
分析其中原因，防疫部门推估指出由于20岁-30岁的女性为新天地的主要成员，因此确诊案例结构特别明显。
Analysis of the reasons for the epidemic department estimates that the 20-30 year-old women as the main members of Xintiandi, the case structure is particularly clear.
另外，教会确诊第一例，也就是韩国的“第31例”是名女性，也可能和女性往来较多，造成女性感染远高于男性。
In addition, the church's first case, South Korea's "31st case," was a woman and probably had more contact with women, causing them to become infected much more than men.
“新天地”教会成立于1984年，创办人李万熙自称有“不坏肉身”，通过秘密传教，要求信徒隐匿身份潜入其他教会传教，手法颇受争议。
Founded in 1984, founder Lee Wanxi claimed to have a "non-bad body", through secret proselytizing, asked believers to sneak into other churches in a controversial way.
教徒相信李万熙是基督再世，教会是真正的继承者，当审判日来临时将能带领教徒进天堂。
Believers believe that Lee Wanxi is the reincarnation of Christ, the church is the true successor, when the day of judgment comes will lead believers to heaven.
根据曾参加过教会组织的信徒表示，新天地对信徒做礼拜要求甚严，即使生病也要如期出席礼拜活动，一旦缺席就会面临其他信徒异样眼光。
According to former members of church groups, Xintiandi is very strict with worshipers, attending services on time even in case of illness, and faces other believers' eyes in case of absence.
对于外界一再指责教会不配合交出成员名单，教会内务部长辩解指出，教会在2月25日就交出21万成员清单，接着27日再交出6.5万包括国外信徒的名单，中间因为信息落差引发误会。
In response to repeated accusations that the Church was not cooperating in handing over its membership, the Minister of the Interior argued that the Church had handed over a list of 210,000 members on 25 February, followed by a list of 65,000, including foreign believers, on 27 February, in the middle of a misunderstanding caused by the information gap.
89岁的李万熙自从教会因疫情受到关注后就被指隐匿去向，教会表示他2月29日曾接受病毒筛检，检验结果呈现阴性。
Lee Wanxi, 89, has been held in hiding since the church came under scrutiny for the outbreak, and the church said he tested negative for the virus on February 29.
不过韩国官方表示无法确认这一结果。
But South Korean officials said they could not confirm the results.
负责进行第一轮排查的中央灾难安全对策本部3月3日表示，已经完成19万成员的电话调查，确认是否出现相关症状，接下来将进一步进行病毒筛检。
The central disaster security headquarters, which conducted the first round of checks, said on March 3 that a telephone survey of 190,000 members had been completed to confirm the presence of symptoms, followed by further screening of the virus.
由教会引起的疫情引发韩国社会的愤怒，数万人签署要求解散该教会，但是教会发言人反驳称教会也是受害者，同时指控外界抹黑教会。
The church-caused outbreak sparked outrage in South Korean society, with tens of thousands signing up to disband the church, but church spokesmen retorted that the church was also a victim and accused the outside world of tarnishing the church.
一名在大邱附近小学执教的英语教师对《财经》记者指出，她对疫情感到非常担忧，“非必要不出门。
An English teacher who teaches at a primary school near Daegu told Caijing that she was very worried about the outbreak.
”长期研究“新天地”教会文化的专家对李万熙的道歉诚意感到存疑。
Experts who have long studied the culture of the Church of Xintiandi doubt Lee's sincerity in apologizing.
釜山长老会大学教授卓知日指出，相对于向社会大众道歉，李万熙更应该做的其实是向他的信众喊话，他认为李万熙的做法主要是为了维持在信徒中的地位而非真的是为了配合防疫。
Rather than apologise to the public, Lee should have addressed his followers, who believed that Lee's actions were aimed at maintaining their status among the faithful rather than at cooperating with the epidemic, Pusan Presbyterian University professor Chuo Chi-chi said.
确诊病人“应收尽收”大邱市累计确诊病例仍为全国最高，截至3月3日达2136例，接着也是因为“新天地”教会而成为疫区的庆尚北道，达197例，其中大南医院相关的病例为119例。
The total number of confirmed cases in Daegu city remains the highest in the country, with 2,136 cases as of March 3, followed by Gyeongshan North Province, which has become an epidemic area because of the Xintiandi church, with 197 cases, of which 119 are related to Da'nan Hospital.
中央防疫对策本部部长郑银敬表示，大邱市的发病率最高，为每10万人中就有126例确诊病例，其次是庆尚北道每10万人中有23.4例。
Zheng Yingjing, chief minister of the Central Preventive Measures, said Daegu had the highest incidence, with 126 confirmed cases per 100,000 people, followed by Gyeongshan North Province with 23.4 cases per 100,000 people.
大邱地区确诊病例迅速增加，当地医疗机构无法负荷，面临和武汉一样无法收治的问题。
There has been a rapid increase in confirmed cases in Daegu and local medical institutions are unable to cope with the same problems as Wuhan.
至3月1日，1661名病患因病床短缺被迫在家隔离等待，4例感染病人在等待期间身亡。
By 1 March, 1,661 patients had been forced to wait in isolation at home owing to a shortage of beds, and four infected patients had died while waiting.
为因应新的疫情，防疫部门在2月底改变策略，将感染病例依症状轻重分类重新分配医疗资源，只有重症病人才送往医院治疗，轻症患者则送往临时增设的方舱医院。
In response to the new outbreak, the Department changed its strategy at the end of February to redistribute medical resources according to the severity of symptoms. Only patients with severe illnesses were admitted to hospitals, while patients with mild cases were sent to temporary additional squares hospitals.
为节省时间，大邱地区将国家教育训练中心改为第一个方舱医院，3月2日投入使用，首日收治160名患者。
In order to save time, the Daegu area converted the National Education and Training Centre into the first square-cabin hospital, which became operational on 2 March and treated 160 patients on the first day.
常驻中心的17名医务人员每天为轻症患者测温两次并检查其呼吸道症状，必要时安排患者接受诊疗。
The 17 medical staff stationed at the centre take temperature measurements twice a day for light patients and examine their respiratory symptoms, and arrange medical consultations if necessary.
由行政安全部、国防部、保健福祉部（卫生部）、大邱市政府等有关部门组成的政府联合支援团负责中心运营，不同于武汉的方舱医院，大邱的轻症感染患者每人配有独立房间 。
The Centre is operated by a joint government support group comprising the Ministry of Administrative Security, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Health and Welfare (Ministry of Health) and the City of Daegu. Unlike Wuhan's Fangdao Hospital, patients with mild infection in Daegu are provided with separate rooms.
大邱市灾难本部也开放24小时热线，安排专门医生跟踪管理未被收治的确诊病人，同时保证提供所需用药。
The Daegu City Disaster Headquarters has also opened a 24-hour hotline to arrange specialized doctors to follow up on confirmed patients who have not been admitted and to ensure that the required medication is provided.
大邱市长在3月1日记者会上指出，避免确诊病患在等待病床时过世将是接下来防疫的优先改善重点。
Speaking at a press conference on March 1, Mayor Daegu said avoiding the death of a confirmed patient while waiting for his bed would be a priority for future immunization.
接下来，庆尚北道地区本周内也将成立两个方舱医院，改建位于盈德郡的三星人力开发院和闻庆市的首尔大学医院人才院， 两处的病房数量分别为203间和100间。
Next, Gyeongshan North Province will set up two cabin hospitals this week, transforming the Samsung Manpower Development Institute in Pound County and the Seoul National University Hospital in Wenqing City, with 203 and 100 wards, respectively.
中央政府的防疫部门指出，政府将会向感染人数众多的大邱地区派送更多医疗人员和资源，争取在本周内将1000名患者安置到新成立的方舱医院接受治疗。
The central government's anti-epidemic agency said the government would send more medical personnel and resources to the heavily infected Taegu area and aim to relocate 1,000 patients to a new cabin hospital this week.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click Here for more information about the epidemic:: Archives & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and may not be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
韩国战疫：重点调查新天地教会成员访问武汉情况。
Korean Plague: Focus on investigating the visit of members of Xintiandi Church to Wuhan.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "韩国战疫：重点调查新天地教会成员访问武汉情况";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Korean plague: A focus on New World Church members' visit to Wuhan.
var msg_desc = "爱丁堡大学医学院公共卫生专家斯立德哈尔认为，全球疫情已经呈现多处无关联暴发，这意味着新型冠状病毒已大流行，各国政府应该确保医疗系统的医治能力，同时教育民众以减缓传播。
var msg _ desc = & quot; public health expert at Edinburgh University School of Medicine & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
