新冠疫情席卷64国，全球大流行只待宣布 | 《财经》封面。
With the New Crown sweeping 64 countries, the global pandemic has only to be announced and announced on Caijing's cover.
金焱 等。
Yan, et al.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
新冠疫情在中国已初步得到遏制，但在六大洲加速蔓延引发多重冲击，世卫组织暂未认定其为“大流行病”，协同抗疫任重道远文 |《财经》特派华盛顿记者 金焱 《财经》记者 蔡婷贻 发自北京  《财经》特派伦敦记者 江玮 德黑兰特约撰稿人 墨父编辑 | 郝洲经过一个多月的防控，虽然中国的疫情数据累计仍在增长，但新增确诊感染人数增速持续下降，治愈出院病例持续增加，疫情蔓延势头初步得到遏制。
The outbreak has initially been contained in China, but has spawned multiple shocks on six continents. WHO has not yet designated it a pandemic. Working with Caijing, a Washington-based reporter, Tsai Ting Jing, Caijing reporter from Beijing Caijing, has seen a steady decline in the number of newly diagnosed infections, a steady increase in the number of cured cases and initial containment of the epidemic.
但在中国以外，韩国、日本、意大利、伊朗等国出现多起聚集性感染，确诊病例快速增加，疫情在全球蔓延的形势引起各方面高度关注。
But outside China, there have been many cases of conglomerate infection in Korea, Japan, Italy and Iran, and the number of confirmed cases has increased rapidly.
由于疏于防控，疫情在这些引发新关切的国家四处扩散，与伊朗相关的病例已输入黎巴嫩、阿联酋、巴林、伊拉克、科威特、阿曼和巴基斯坦等周边国家，与意大利相关联的病例则已经输入阿尔及利亚、奥地利、克罗地亚、德国、西班牙和瑞士。
As a result of this lack of control, the epidemic has spread throughout these countries of new concern, with cases related to Iran imported into neighbouring countries such as Lebanon, the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Iraq, Kuwait, Oman and Pakistan, and cases linked to Italy have been imported into Algeria, Austria, Croatia, Germany, Spain and Switzerland.
根据世界卫生组织的统计数据，截至北京时间3月2日17时，在中国之外，全球共有64个国家报告了8774例确诊病例，其中128人死亡。
According to the World Health Organization, by 1700 hours Beijing time on March 2, a total of 8,774 confirmed cases, including 128 deaths, had been reported in 64 countries around the world.
2月26日，中国境外报告的新增病例数量首次超过了中国境内。
On February 26, the number of new cases reported outside China surpassed that in China for the first time.
3月2日，境外单日新增数量已经是中国国内的9倍之多。
On March 2, the number of one-day additions abroad was already nine times greater than in China.
尽管如此，世卫组织仍然不希望在“没有谨慎和清晰地分析事实情况之前”仓促宣布疫情为全球“大流行病”。
Nonetheless, WHO still does not want to rush to declare the epidemic a global "pandemic" without "careful and clear analysis of the facts."
世卫组织总干事谭德塞强调，“世卫组织已经宣布新型冠状病毒疫情为国际关注的突发公共卫生事件，这是世卫组织最高级别的预警。
"The WHO has declared the new coronavirus outbreak to be a public health emergency of international concern, which is the highest-level WHO alert," said WHO Director-General Theresa Tanner.
草率地使用‘全球大流行’一词，并不会产生任何切实的益处，只会带来严重的风险，放大没有必要和缺乏根据的恐惧及污名化，让社会体系陷入瘫痪。
The hasty use of the term 'global pandemic' does not produce any tangible benefits, but carries a serious risk of amplifying unnecessary and unfounded fears and stigmatization and paralysing the social system.
”谭德塞同时指出，世卫组织正在24小时持续监测疫情进展，并与本组织内外专家保持沟通，假如疫情真的发展到了需要宣布“全球大流行”的地步，世卫组织也不会有任何迟疑。
He added that WHO was monitoring the situation 24 hours a day and was in communication with experts inside and outside the organization, and that it would not hesitate to declare a "global pandemic" if the outbreak did go as far as it needed to.
他说，“目前，我们没有看到持续和密集的社区传播，也没有看到大规模的重症和死亡。
"At the moment, we are not seeing sustained and intensive community transmission, nor are we seeing large-scale serious illness and death," he said.
”2月8日，日本东京地铁品川站，早高峰的乘客们。
Early-peak passengers at the Tokyo subway station in Pinkawa, Japan, Feb. 8.
图/ 法新韩国：“新天地”教会带来灾难韩国疫情自2月21日开始升温，接着确诊案例在短短数日内呈翻倍式增长，使得韩国瞬间成为中国以外新型冠状病毒感染最严重的疫区，韩国政府原本以围堵为主的防疫政策也被迫转为寻求减灾。
2007-9-25 21: 23 (Xinhua) -- South Korea's government has been forced to turn to disaster mitigation as its containment-oriented immunization policy has been forced to turn to disaster reduction as the number of confirmed cases doubled in a matter of days, making South Korea the worst-affected region outside China.
韩国的累计确诊病例已经达到1766例，死亡病例达13例。
The cumulative number of confirmed cases in Korea has reached 1,766, with 13 deaths.
随着案例快速增加，韩国防疫部门已来不及调查和阻隔每个案例的感染源，国会也因为在野党议员曾接触过确诊患者紧急宣布休会。
With the number of cases rapidly increasing, the Korean epidemic prevention authorities have not had time to investigate and block the source of infection in each case, and the National Assembly has abruptly adjourned due to contacts made by opposition MPs with confirmed patients.
韩国政府2月23日召开紧急会议，文在寅总统宣布国家进入紧急状态，将传染病预警级别由此前的“警戒”调高到最高级“严重”。
South Korea's government called an emergency meeting on Feb. 23, and President Wen Jiabao declared a state of emergency, raising the alert level of infectious diseases from the previous "alert" to the highest level.
这是韩国自2009年H1N1流感后，再次发布最高级传染病预警，政府依法定标准能随时发布学校停课、禁止集体活动等紧急命令。
This is the South Korean H1N1 influenza since 2009, again issued the highest-level infectious disease alert, the government in accordance with legal standards can be issued at any time school suspension, ban collective activities and other emergency orders.
根据相关部门的推演，2月23日至3月3日将是韩国是否能有效控制疫情的时间窗口。
Feb. 23 to March 3 will be a window into whether South Korea can effectively control the epidemic, according to a calculation by the relevant authorities.
韩国疫情快速升温主要源于两起聚集性感染，尤其是位于韩国第四大城市大邱市的“新天地”教会；另一个感染源为庆尚北道清道郡大南医院。
South Korea's rapid rise in the epidemic is due to two cases of concentrated infection, particularly in the Church of Xintiandi in Daegu, South Korea's fourth-largest city, and from the Ching Nan Hospital in Qingdao, Gyeongshan North Province.
由于庆尚北道是“新天地”教会创办人李万熙的家乡，教会成员曾参加在该医院举办的创办人兄长丧礼，韩国保健福祉部（卫生部）下属的疾病预防控制中心推断大南医院的感染源同样来自教会。
As Gyeongshan North Province is the home of Li Wanxi, founder of Xintiandi Church, church members participated in the funeral of the founder's brother at the hospital, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention under the Ministry of Health and Welfare concluded that the source of infection at the Greater South Hospital was also from the Church.
2020年2月29日，在韩国大邱，防疫人员准备对交通枢纽东大邱站进行消毒。
On February 29, 2020, in Daegu, South Korea, anti-epidemic workers prepared to disinfect the traffic hub of East Taegu.
图/ 法新韩国翰林医学院流行病专家金东炫指出，韩国已经过了政府防疫部门能独立控制疫情的阶段，现在已经进入整个社会都要配合防疫的关键时期。
Kim Dong-hyun, an epidemiologist at the Han Lin School of Medicine in France and New Korea, said South Korea had passed the stage when the government anti-epidemic department was able to control the epidemic independently.
经过复盘调查，韩国的“第31例病人”成为该国的第一个“超级传播者”。
South Korea's "thirty-first patient" became the country's first "super communicator" after a reexamination.
“第31例病人”为一名1959年出生的女性，因为车祸自2月7日开始往来地方诊所接受治疗，她自2月10日开始发烧，17日接受病毒检测，18日确诊为阳性。
"The thirty-first patient, a woman born in 1959, was diagnosed as positive on February 18 after a car accident that began on February 7 and started running a fever on February 10, and a virus test on February 17.
隔日，大邱和庆尚北道出现13例新增病例，调查显示源头都来自“第31例病人”，韩国媒体指出，诊所医生曾经建议她接受病毒筛检，但是遭到拒绝。
The next day there were 13 new cases in Daegu and Gyeongshan province, all of which were traced to the thirty-first patient, and South Korean media said doctors had advised her to be screened for the virus, but were rejected.
她在出现症状后仍4次参加教会礼拜活动，并与超过1160人发生了接触。
She attended church services four times after the onset of symptoms and had contact with more than 1160 people.
韩国防疫系统自此面临严峻挑战。
The Korean epidemic prevention system has since faced serious challenges.
被感染的“新天地”教会信徒主要在2月7日－10日以及14日－18日期间出现症状，韩国疾病预防控制中心推断教会的礼拜活动可能是病毒的主要传播场合。
The infected New World believers showed symptoms mainly between February 7-10 and 14-18, and the Korean Centers for Disease Control and Prevention concluded that church services could be the main places of transmission of the virus.
“新天地”教会信徒在韩国至少有21万之众,有超过1000个据点，这些教徒倾向于隐瞒参加教会活动，也向家人隐瞒秘密入教。
With a population of at least 210,000 and more than 1,000 strongholds in South Korea, believers tend to conceal their involvement in church activities as well as their clandestine affiliation with their families.
“新天地”教会在初期不愿配合防疫，提交的信徒名单和联系方式并不完整，有媒体指出教会要求信徒在接到防疫电话时否认参与活动误导防疫人员。
The Church was initially reluctant to cooperate with immunization, submitting incomplete lists of believers and contact details, with media reports pointing out that the church had asked believers to deny involvement in misleading vaccination personnel when called for vaccination.
防疫人员随后表示，若教会不配合将采取法律手段。
The vaccination official later said the church would take legal action if it did not cooperate.
文在寅在2月23日的紧急会议之后特别指出，政府将关闭新天地在全国各地的教会，对教徒进行全面调查。
Wen said after an emergency meeting on Feb. 23 that the government would close its churches around the country and conduct a thorough investigation of the faithful.
韩国政府已宣布大邱和庆尚北道清道郡为“传染病特别管理地区”。
The South Korean government has declared Daegu and Qingdao County, Gyeongshan North Province, "Special Management Areas for Infectious Diseases."
“新天地”教会引发的疫情还包括军队，一名在济州岛的军人2月20日放假前往大邱和女友见面后也遭到感染，截至2月27日下午5点，韩国陆、海、空三军感染人数达25人，已隔离至少9990人，考虑到疫情，韩美已推迟原定于3月9日进行的联合军演规模。
The outbreak also includes troops from Jeju Island who visited Taegu on February 20 to meet with his girlfriend. As of 5 p.m. on February 27, the army, navy and air force had infected 25 people and quarantined at least 9,990 people.
鉴于疫情升温迅速，韩国普通人的正常生活已经开始受到影响。
With the epidemic heating up rapidly, ordinary people in South Korea are starting to suffer.
韩国政府宣布全国幼儿园、中小学等各级学校新学年自3月2日延后至3月9日。
The Korean government announced that the new school year for kindergartens, primary and secondary schools across the country would be postponed from March 2 to March 9.
大邱市政府除了宣布学校延后一周开学，同时也要求市内1324所幼儿园休园，252个老年医疗设施管制外部人员进出。
The city government, in addition to declaring schools open a week late, has ordered 1,324 kindergartens in the city to be closed and 252 geriatric facilities to control access.
在取消了大邱市举办的主要活动之外，不少政府部门已改为在家办公。
In addition to the cancellation of major events in Daegu city, a number of government departments have switched to home-based work.
“我们觉得市中心好像被炸弹攻击了一样，一个人也没有……路上的人都戴起口罩，很多地方需要量体温才能进入，没有戴口罩就不提供服务。
"We felt as if the city centre had been hit by a bomb, there was no one... people on the road were wearing masks, many places needed temperature to get in, and there was no service without a mask.
”住在“新天地”大邱教会附近的美国人梅里德斯 （Meredith Khanloo） 对《财经》记者指出。
Meredith Khanloo, an American living near the Taegu church in Xintiandi, told Caijing.
在首尔居住从事中韩文翻译的朴女士非常愤怒地对《财经》记者表示，新冠病毒在韩国大流行全是因为“新天地”教徒。
Ms. Park, who lives in Seoul and works as a Chinese-Korean translator, told Caijing angrily that the New Crown Virus pandemic in South Korea was all about Sinti.
“那些人精神不正常。
"Those people are insane.
我们原本并不担心新冠病毒，但现在情况完全变了，我们也开始担忧，甚至感到不安。
We didn't worry about the new Crown virus, but it has changed, and we are beginning to worry and even feel uneasy.
”朴女士的儿子在2月14日刚刚经历毕业典礼，那时韩国完全感受不到新冠病毒流行的气氛。
Ms Park's son had just graduated from graduation on February 14, a time when South Korea simply did not feel the vibe of the new crown virus.
有两个孩子的梅里德斯担忧地表示，除非她相信疫情获得控制，她和很多韩国妈妈都不会准时在新的开学日将孩子送到学校，“妈妈们非常担心自己的孩子到时候会独自被隔离或在医院接受治疗”。
Merides, who has two children, worries that unless she believes the outbreak is under control, she and many South Korean mothers will not be able to send their children to school on the new school day.
为尽快控制疫情，中央政府正编列新的预算，协助大邱和庆尚北道政府进行疫情封锁，“织密防疫网”阻断进一步社区传播。
To bring the epidemic under control as soon as possible, the central government is drawing up a new budget to help the governments of Daegu and Gyeongshan to block further community transmission through an epidemic prevention network.
此外，随着韩国大学即将陆续开学，3.8万名中国学生将回到韩国就学，韩国政府为此已拨出50亿韩元（2888万元人民币）用于中国学生14天隔离和发放口罩之用。
In addition, the South Korean government has allocated 5 billion won (28.88 million yuan) to Chinese students for 14 days of isolation and the distribution of face masks, as universities begin to reopen in South Korea and 38,000 Chinese students will return to South Korea.
意大利：沦为欧洲“重灾区”意大利于1月30日发现来自武汉的一对夫妻游客感染新冠病毒，为该国最早的确诊病例。
Italy is the first confirmed case in Europe of a couple of tourists caught the new crown virus from Wuhan, Italy on January 30.
随后，意大利宣布暂停所有往来于中国的航班，并进入六个月的紧急状态。
Italy then suspended all flights to and from China and imposed a six-month state of emergency.
此后一段时间，意大利确诊病例没有出现明显增长。
Since then, there has been no significant increase in confirmed cases in Italy.
但是2月22日疫情形势急转直下，两天内，意大利新增了149例确诊病例，其中3人在48小时内先后去世。
But the situation fell sharply on February 22, when 149 new cases were confirmed in Italy, three of them within 48 hours.
至2月27日18时，意大利的累计感染病例数已达650例，死亡17例。
By 1800 hours on 27 February, the cumulative number of infections in Italy had reached 650 cases and 17 deaths.
意大利公布的确诊病例主要来自北部地区的伦巴第和威尼托。
The confirmed cases reported in Italy are mainly from Lombardy and Veneto in the northern region.
两个重灾区为意大利的经济重镇，贡献了全国30％的GDP。
The two worst-hit regions are Italy's economic powerhouse, contributing 30% of the country's GDP.
在2月22日召开内阁紧急会议之后，意大利总理孔特当晚宣布一系列紧急措施，包括封锁伦巴第、威尼托大区的11个市镇。
Following an emergency cabinet meeting on February 22, Italian Prime Minister Matteo Conte announced a series of emergency measures, including a blockade of 11 municipalities in the Lombardy and Veneto regions.
被封锁区域目前出入通道由警察把控，所有公共活动暂停，交通也被限制，影响范围覆盖大约5万人。
Access to the closed areas is currently controlled by the police, all public events have been suspended and traffic has been restricted, affecting approximately 50,000 people.
违反防疫要求的违规者将会被处以最多三个月监禁或最高206欧元（约合人民币1567元）的罚款。
Violators who violate quarantine requirements will be sentenced to up to three months' imprisonment or a fine of up to 206 euros (1,567 yuan).
由于新型冠状病毒肺炎在意大利迅速蔓延，三场原定于在23日晚上举行的意甲联赛被延期，其中包括意甲豪门国际米兰主场对桑普多利亚的一场比赛。
As a result of the rapid spread of the new coronavirus pneumonia in Italy, three Serie A league matches scheduled for the evening of 23 were postponed, including a home game between Serie A giants Inter Milan and Sampdoria.
意大利教育部发布公告，要求伦巴第、威尼托、艾米利亚-罗马涅三个大区的高等院校暂时停止教学活动直至2月29日。
The Italian Ministry of Education has issued a circular requesting higher education institutions in the regions of Lombardy, Veneto and Emilia Romagna to suspend their activities until 29 February.
周旻雪是意大利都灵大学的一名中国学生，她所在的城市都灵属于皮埃蒙特大区，虽然不在上述三个大区范围之内，但也已经出现了6例确诊病例。
Zhou Min Xue is a Chinese student at the University of Turin, Italy, and her city, Turin, belongs to the Piedmont region. Although outside the three regions mentioned above, there have also been six confirmed cases.
她于23日晚上8点收到学校发出的通知，宣布暂时停课至29日，复课时间仍待另行通知。
She received a notice from the school at 8 p.m. on the 23rd, announcing that the school would be suspended until the 29th day until further notice.
周旻雪来自湖北鄂州，她对《财经》记者表示：“我之前担心家里，现在家里担心我。
Zhou Min Xue, from Hubei province, told Caijing: "I used to worry about my family, but now my family is worried about me.
”她在周围的药店已经买不到消毒水、免洗洗手液和口罩。
She can't buy disinfectant, hand sanitizers or face masks at the drugstores around her.
2月23日，周旻雪去了一趟超市采购食物，看到货架上的物品还算充足。
On February 23, Zhou Min-xue went to the supermarket to buy food and found the goods on the shelf were sufficient.
但生活在米兰的另一名中国留学生却发现他去的那家超市货架上的食品已经基本被抢购一空。
But another Chinese student, who lives in Milan, found that the supermarket shelves he had gone to were almost empty.
“前一天去的时候还不是这样。
"It wasn't like that the day before.
”他对《财经》记者表示。
"He told Caijing.
米兰是伦巴第大区的首府，尽管确诊病例主要集中在米兰南部的城镇，但出于对控制病毒传播的考虑，米兰大教堂将对游人暂时关闭至2月25日；米兰斯卡拉歌剧院（Teatro alla Scala）23日宣布暂停剧场演出；米兰的学校也停课一周。
Milan, the capital of the Lombardy region, although confirmed cases are concentrated in towns south of Milan, will temporarily close to visitors until February 25 to control the spread of the virus; the Teatro alla Scala has been suspended for 23 days; and schools in Milan have been closed for a week.
病毒在意大利的蔓延也使得当地华人的处境受到影响。
The spread of the virus in Italy has also affected the situation of local Chinese.
1月底，意大利罗马的一家音乐学院曾要求来自东亚国家的学生停课。
At the end of January, a conservatory in Rome asked students from East Asian countries to suspend classes.
在都灵留学的一名中国学生对《财经》记者表示，两周前在地铁上，一名十几岁的青少年捂着嘴避开了他。
A Chinese student studying in Turin told Caijing that a teenager had covered his mouth to avoid him on the subway two weeks ago.
但除此之外，没有更多不愉快的经历发生。
But beyond that, there are no more unpleasant experiences.
一些社交媒体上出现针对华人超市的打砸抢或者反华游行图片也已经被证明为谣言。
Pictures of vandalism or anti-China demonstrations on some social media outlets against Chinese supermarkets have also proved to be rumors.
但一名华人女性成为了种族歧视的受害者。
But a Chinese woman became a victim of racial discrimination.
2月20日，一名在都灵生活多年的华人遭到两名意大利人的袭击。
On 20 February, a Chinese living in Turin for many years was attacked by two Italians.
据意大利《新闻报》23日报道，事发时间在白天，地点为都灵市中心。
According to the Italian newspaper El Pais 23, the incident took place in the daytime, in downtown Turin.
当时这名华人女性在路边等红绿灯，两名三四十岁的意大利人走向她，并夹杂着脏话冲她喊：“病毒，快离开都灵。
The Chinese woman was waiting for a traffic light when two Italians in their 30s and 40s approached her and shouted at her with foul language: "Virus, get out of Turin.
”这名女性试图解释，即使她是中国人，也不意味着她就携带了病毒。
The woman tried to explain that even if she was Chinese, that did not mean she was carrying the virus.
但男子持续辱骂她，与其同行的一名女性则动手打了她。
The man, however, continued to abuse her, and one of the women with whom he was travelling beat her.
都灵市市长奇亚拉·阿彭迪诺对这一行为表示谴责，称其卑鄙可耻。
The Mayor of Turin, Chiara Apendino, condemned the act as despicable and shameful.
对于在意大利的华人来说，他们纠结的一个问题是：在能够买到口罩的前提下，到底要不要戴上口罩？在当地人看来只有患病的情况才需要戴上口罩，而华人则把戴口罩视为一种自我保护或者保护他人。
For the Chinese in Italy, a vexed question is whether to put on a mask if one can buy one. In the eyes of the locals, it is only necessary to wear a mask in case of illness, whereas the Chinese see it as a form of self-protection or protection.
手里只有一个口罩的周旻雪决定减少出门，在目睹了家乡疫情暴发的经过之后，她为意大利人对病毒缺乏警惕的心态感到担忧。
Zhou Min-snow, who had only one mask, decided to cut back on travel and was worried about Italians' lack of vigilance about the virus after witnessing the outbreak at home.
伊朗：因疫情被进一步孤立2月19日，距离中国湖北省武汉封城后的两个“隔离期”——整整28天，伊朗首次发现两例新冠肺炎确诊病例，发现即死亡。
Iran: Two confirmed cases of new crown pneumonia were found dead in Iran for the first time in 28 days, two days after the outbreak was sealed off in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China.
随后一周，确诊病例呈直线上升趋势，截至当地时间2月28日，伊朗累计确诊388例，死亡34例。
The following week, the number of confirmed cases showed a linear upward trend, with a cumulative total of 388 confirmed cases and 34 deaths in Iran as of 28 February local time.
按照死亡人数占确诊病例数的比例来看，伊朗疫情的致死率达到8.8％，远超疫情集中且严重的中国湖北省，湖北省目前的致死率约为4％。
In terms of the number of deaths as a percentage of the number of confirmed cases, the mortality rate of the Iranian epidemic reached 8.8 percent, far exceeding the mortality rate of about 4 percent in Hubei Province, China, where the epidemic is concentrated and severe.
病毒究竟如何传到伊朗，这个问题至今还是一个谜。
How exactly the virus spread to Iran remains a mystery.
伊朗官方公布的调查显示，最初确诊病例在库姆发现，库姆确诊病例最多，其他确诊病例多数有库姆旅行史。
According to official Iranian investigations, the first confirmed cases were found in Qom, with the largest number of confirmed cases in Qom, and the majority of the other confirmed cases had a Qom travel history.
库姆是伊朗的什叶派圣城，距离德黑兰大概两个小时车程，城内的库姆神学院是世界最知名的宗教学院之一，法蒂玛·马苏玛陵墓被视为伊斯兰教什叶派最为神圣的地方之一。
Qom is Iran's Shiite holy city, about two hours' drive from Tehran. The Qom seminary in the city is one of the world's most famous religious schools, and Fatima al-Masuma's tomb is considered one of the holiest places for Shiites in Islam.
伊朗卫生部部长纳马基在接受媒体采访时曾推断，“有90％以上的可能，该病毒是经由携带者从中国传入伊朗，特别是库姆市的。
In an interview with the media, Health Minister Manouchehr al-Namaki concluded that "there is a 90 percent probability that the virus was introduced to Iran, especially the city of Qom, by carriers from China.
”但具体是谁携带进去的，是在库姆的工人、学生、商人、旅行者？没有准确答案。
But who brought in the workers, the students, the businessmen, the travellers at Qom? No precise answer.
纳马基同时表示，库姆的一例死亡病例是一位在病毒传染期曾去过中国的伊朗商人，因此，也有可能是该伊朗商人在中国感染病毒后带回伊朗。
Namaki also said the death in Qom was the death of an Iranian businessman who had been to China during the virus infection period, so it is also possible that the Iranian businessman brought it back to Iran after contracting the virus in China.
除了致死率高，伊朗的疫情还表现得非常平等，伊朗卫生部副部长哈里齐2月25日也宣布自己确诊感染新冠肺炎，伊朗负责妇女和家庭事务的副总统玛苏梅·埃卜特卡和伊朗议会国家安全和外交委员会主席穆杰塔巴·宗努尔也于27日被确诊感染。
In addition to the high fatality rate, Iran's epidemic is showing great equality, with Iran's Vice Minister of Health, Halizi, announcing on 25 February that he had been diagnosed with New Crown Pneumonia, and Iran's Vice-President for Women's and Family Affairs, Massoume Ebteka, and the Chairman of the Iranian Parliament's National Security and Foreign Affairs Committee, Mujetaba Zonur, were also diagnosed on 27 February.
按照哈里齐的说法，这个病毒“不分高低贵贱”。
According to Haretz, the virus "does not distinguish between high and low."
伊朗总统发言人拉比伊此前与哈里齐在同一个新闻发布会上共处多时。
Iran's presidential spokesman, Ali Rabi'i, had been with him at the same news conference for a long time.
有消息说，哈里齐的确诊消息传出后，总统鲁哈尼和拉比伊都在第一时间进行了病毒检测，好在2月26日的检测结果都是阴性。
President Rouhani and Rabi both tested negative for the virus at the first sign of infection after word spread of the company's diagnosis.
此外，德黑兰第十三区的区长和国家议会的议员萨德吉也都确诊感染。
In addition, the district mayor of Tehran's thirteenth district and member of the National Assembly, Saadji, were also diagnosed with the infection.
2020 年2月21日，伊朗纳杰夫国际机场，工作人员为旅客测量体温。
On 21 February 2020, at Iran's Najaf International Airport, staff took the temperature of the passengers.
图 / 法新疫情发生以后，伊朗10个省份的学校停课，全国体育赛事、音乐会、艺术展等统统取消，所有电影院及公共休闲场所关停，德黑兰还禁止在公共场所举办婚礼等大型聚会，设拉子市关闭了粉红清真寺等热门景点，古勒斯坦省禁止病人亲属探监，各城市的公交、地铁等公共交通也要求定期消毒。
Following the outbreak of the Tu / AFP epidemic, schools were closed in 10 Iranian provinces, national sporting events, concerts, art exhibitions, all cinemas and public leisure venues were closed, major gatherings such as weddings in public places were banned in Tehran, popular sites such as pink mosques were closed in Shiraz, relatives of patients were barred from visiting prisons in Gulastan and public transport such as buses and subways in cities was required to be disinfected regularly.
经过一番讨论之后，伊朗已经宣布取消2月28日的集体礼拜活动。
After some discussion, Iran has announced the cancellation of the 28 February collective worship.
同时，伊朗将对位于马什哈德的伊玛目礼萨圣陵和位于库姆的法蒂玛圣陵等礼拜圣地进行限流，前往礼拜的人员，必须佩戴口罩，自带洗手液，并出示健康信息。
At the same time, the Islamic Republic of Iran will impose restrictions on places of worship such as the holy shrine of Imam Reza in Mashhad and the holy shrine of Fatima in Qom. Those going to worship are required to wear masks, bring their own hand sanitizers and present health information.
其实做出这种决策对于政教合一的伊朗实属不易。
Making such decisions will not be easy for a secular Iran.
每周五的聚礼对于穆斯林来说是生活中极其重要的一部分。
Friday parties are a vital part of life for Muslims.
此前有教士表示读《古兰经》可以抵御病毒，有教士称在圣陵朝拜可以治病，但科学家告诉伊朗政府，疫情蔓延之时大规模聚集有着极高的风险，所以周五的礼拜取消，这对于伊朗来说是一个极其艰难的抉择。
Earlier clerics said reading the Koran would protect against the virus, and some clerics said pilgrimage to the holy shrines would cure the disease, but scientists told the Iranian government that Friday prayers were cancelled because of the high risk of a large-scale gathering at a time when the epidemic was spreading, making it a very difficult choice for Iran.
即便如此，伊朗采取的措施与中国举全国之力严防死守的态势相比仍然较为松懈，更没有“封城”的打算。
Even so, Iran's measures remain lax compared with China's national assertiveness, not to mention its intention to "close the city."
总统鲁哈尼2月26日表示，“国家没有决定隔离任何城市，民众不要听信封城的传言，所有生活物资都有足够的供应。
President Rouhani said on February 26, "the country has not decided to isolate any city, people do not listen to Envelope City rumors, all supplies are adequate.
”封城所需的资源调动能力还有国家经济的承受能力，对于伊朗都是不可承受之重。
The ability to mobilize the resources needed to close the city, and the country's economic capacity, is unbearable for Iran.
就像大禹治水一样，不能“堵”时，只能选择“疏”。
Just as Dayu Zhi water, can not "block", can only choose "sparse."
最高领袖的外事顾问也是伊朗著名的儿科医生韦拉亚提身穿白大褂出现在电视上告诉民众，“新冠病毒的致死率不如流感”。
The Supreme Leader's foreign affairs adviser and well-known Iranian pediatrician, Ayatollah Ali Bayati, appeared on television and told people that "the new crown virus is not as deadly as the flu."
卫生部副部长哈里齐声称，“大多数感染者不必前往医院，在家休息喝水补充维生素就能好”，他在自己录制的视频里确实精神状态良好。
"Most infected people don't have to go to a hospital to rest at home and drink vitamin supplements," said Harry Qi, deputy minister of health.
由于国家在努力给疫情“降温”，民众并没有产生恐慌情绪。
As the country tries to "cool down" the epidemic, there is little fear among the population.
但这只是原因之一，还有很大一部分是宗教因素让很多民众看淡生死，一名超市的管理人员解释他自己不戴口罩的原因是“得不得病，全看真主的意思”。
But that is just one reason, and a large part of it is religion that makes many people see life and death, and one supermarket manager explained that he was not wearing a mask because "it's all God's will."
伊朗民众在疫情不断蔓延的同时没有采取很好的保护措施，街头上戴口罩的民众也就在10％左右，拥堵的德黑兰交通也没有因为疫情而缓解，多数人还是像往常一样工作生活。
As the epidemic continues to unfold without adequate protection, the number of people wearing masks on the streets is around 10%, traffic in congested Tehran has not eased, and most people are still working and living as usual.
更有意思的是，由于学校停课，一些学生竟然组团去伊朗北部里海附近度假游玩，而那里的城市同样也有确诊病例，此事让卫生部直接喊话，“让你们停课不是让你们出去旅游的，都在宿舍老实待着。
Even more interestingly, some students have taken vacations around the Caspian Sea in northern Iran, where there have also been confirmed cases, prompting the Health Ministry to say directly, "It's not for you to travel.
”虽然多数民众表现得情绪稳定，但药店里的口罩、酒精、消毒水已经被抢购一空。
Although most people appear to be in a stable mood, pharmacies have been snapped up with masks, alcohol and disinfectant.
长期遭受制裁的伊朗，在医疗物资、医疗条件上确实没有办法应付疫情大规模暴发而产生的医疗需求上升。
Long-suffering Iran does not have the means, in terms of medical supplies and conditions, to cope with the rising demand for health care from a massive outbreak of the disease.
伊朗的病毒是否来源于中国尚无定论，但是有很多国家的确诊病例已经确定是经由伊朗“输送”过去的。
Whether the Iranian virus originates in China is debatable, but confirmed cases in many countries have been confirmed to have been "transported" through Iran.
2月20日，加拿大不列颠哥伦比亚省确诊的第6例是一名从伊朗返回的30多岁的妇女。
On 20 February, the sixth confirmed case in British Columbia, Canada, was a woman in her thirties who had returned from Iran.
21日，黎巴嫩发现的第1例病例系一名从库姆回国的45岁黎巴嫩妇女。
On 21 July, the first case detected in Lebanon was that of a 45-year-old Lebanese woman who had returned from Qom.
22日，阿联酋再添两名确诊病例，为一名70岁的伊朗游客和他64岁的妻子。
22, the United Arab Emirates added two confirmed cases, a 70-year-old Iranian tourist and his 64-year-old wife.
经统计，截至2月27日各国发现的伊朗输送确诊病例人数为：科威特43人，黎巴嫩2人，伊拉克4人，巴林26人，阿曼2人，阿联酋2人，巴基斯坦1人，加拿大1人，还有一名中国人从伊朗返回中国后被确诊。
The number of confirmed cases detected in Iran as at 27 February was 43 in Kuwait, 2 in Lebanon, 4 in Iraq, 26 in Bahrain, 2 in Oman, 2 in the United Arab Emirates, 1 in Pakistan, 1 in Canada and 1 Chinese was confirmed upon his return to China from Iran.
当伊朗成为中东“毒源”以后，各国都紧急关闭了与伊朗的空中、陆地交通，除上述发现了来自伊朗确诊病例的国家外，土耳其、塔吉克斯坦等国也切断与伊朗的联系，伊朗几乎成为一座孤岛。
When Iran became a "source" in the Middle East, air and land traffic with Iran was urgently closed, and, in addition to the countries identified above, countries like Turkey, Tajikistan, and others cut off Iran, making it almost an island.
依然滞留在伊朗的中国人惊恐地发现，此前因为中国疫情伊朗与中国间的直航都已取消，而之前通过迪拜、莫斯科、伊斯坦布尔等城市转机的回国路径也已经被堵死，几无退路。
The Chinese, still in Iran, were horrified to discover that direct flights between Iran and China had been cancelled because of the Chinese epidemic, and that the return route through cities such as Dubai, Moscow and Istanbul had been blocked.
美国：为最坏的可能做准备美国疾病控制与预防中心（CDC）在2月26日表示，美国已有60例确诊病例，其中大部分来自从日本的“钻石公主”号邮轮上被撤回的乘客，还有三起来自从武汉撤回的侨民。
The United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said on February 26 that 60 confirmed cases had been reported in the United States, most of them from passengers removed from the Japanese vessel Princess Diamond and three from Wuhan.
就美国境内发现的病例而言，美国疾控中心网站数据显示目前的确诊病例是14例，其中12例有中国旅行史，另外2例是密切接触者之间的人传人。
In terms of cases detected in the United States, CDC website data show that there are currently 14 confirmed cases, of which 12 have a history of travel to China and 2 are person-to-person contacts between close contacts.
美国卫生官员说，疫情有可能成为全球“大流行病”，迟早会在美国出现社区传播。
U. S. health officials say the outbreak has the potential to become a global "pandemic" that will sooner or later spread to communities in the United States.
在特朗普政府面临更大防疫压力之际，当地时间2月26日下午，美国总统特朗普和美国疾控中心官员等出席新闻发布会，谈论新冠病毒扩散问题。
On the afternoon of February 26, US President Trump and officials from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention attended a press conference to discuss the spread of the new cap virus, amid mounting pressure on the Trump administration.
特朗普宣布任命副总统彭斯做抗击新冠病毒疫情的大主管，因彭斯在担任印第安纳州州长期间有医疗政策方面的经验。
Trump announced the appointment of Vice President Burns as chief executive of the fight against the New Crown Virus, owing to his experience of health policy during his tenure as governor of Indiana.
彭斯将负责协调医务人员和其他专业人员，防止病毒在美国蔓延。
Burns will coordinate medical and other professionals to prevent the virus from spreading in the United States.
美国宾夕法尼亚大学佩雷尔曼医学院的Schaeffer医学教授杰克·恩迪（Jack Ende）对《财经》记者说，新冠肺炎疫情可能很快就成为“大流行病”，这是全球医学界要面对的一场“完美风暴”。
Jack Ende, a professor of medicine at the University of Pennsylvania's Perelman School of Medicine, told Caijing that the outbreak could soon become a "pandemic," a "perfect storm" for the global medical community.
恩迪之所以如此推断，他指出，首先是因为，“我们除隔离外，没有其他预防策略，比如疫苗。
Endy reasoned that, first of all, because "we have no prevention strategies other than isolation, such as vaccines."
另外也没有及时、早期检测发现病毒的手段，且我们不了解病毒传播所需的全部知识，包括无症状期传播的可能性；目前尚无针对新冠病毒对人体器官系统造成损伤的具体疗法，只能靠医生和医疗机构提供支持治疗来应对；最后，我们仍然没有动物模型来测试如何治疗和检测新冠病毒，动物模型的缺乏阻碍了我们在免疫、早期发现和治疗领域迅速推进的能力。
There is also a lack of timely and early detection of the means to detect viruses, and we do not know the full range of knowledge needed to spread the virus, including the possibility of asymptomatic transmission; there is no specific treatment for damage to human organ systems that can only be countered by supportive treatment by doctors and medical institutions.
”美国疾控中心国家免疫和呼吸疾病中心主任南希·麦斯尼耶（Nancy Messonnier）在2月25日的一个媒体简报会上也说，“问题不在于疫情是否会在美国发生传播，而在于何时会开始，以及这个国家有多少人会患上重病。
Nancy Messonnier, director of the CDC's National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, also said in a press briefing on February 25: "The question is not whether the epidemic will spread in the US, but when it will begin, and how many people in the country will become seriously ill."
”她接着警告说，“对日常生活的干扰有可能是严重的。
"Interference with everyday life can be serious," she warns.
”美国疾控中心还警告说，如果新冠病毒在美国大面积传播，这将意味着大批人在同一时间需要医疗照顾，这将对医疗、学校、运输、执法、应急等社会多个方面造成冲击。
The CDC also warns that if the new crown virus spreads widely across the United States, it could mean large numbers of people requiring medical attention at the same time, with repercussions for many sectors of society, including health care, schools, transportation, law enforcement and emergency response.
此外，美国疾控中心正在努力为各州和地方实验室提供新版本的新冠病毒检测试剂盒，原先的某些试剂盒存在缺陷。
In addition, the CDC is working to provide state and local laboratories with new versions of the New Crown Virus test kit, some of which are defective.
出于对新冠肺炎疫情的担忧，旧金山市市长伦敦·布里德（London Breed）于在2月25日宣布该市进入紧急状态。
The mayor of San Francisco, London Breed, declared a state of emergency on Feb. 25 out of concern over the outbreak of pneumonia.
布里德在一份声明中说，虽然旧金山目前尚未有确诊病例，但“全球疫情形势正迅速变化，我们需要加强防范”。
Although there have been no confirmed cases in San Francisco, "the global epidemic is changing rapidly and we need to strengthen our defences," Blide said in a statement.
花旗集团前全球外汇主管、深数宏观（DeepMacro）联合创始人兼CEO杰弗瑞·杨（Jeffrey Young）则对《财经》记者说，病毒持续在中国境外传播会恶化市场情绪。
Jeffrey Young, Citigroup's former global foreign-exchange director and co-founder and CEO of Deep Macro, told Caijing that continued transmission of the virus outside China would exacerbate market sentiment.
美国疾控中心的警告非常重要，如果疫情导致更严格的出行限制，对经济会产生更严重的负面影响。
The CDC's warning is important and could have a more serious negative impact on the economy if the outbreak leads to tighter travel restrictions.
受疫情快速发展的影响，美股接连遭遇重挫。
Affected by the rapid development of the epidemic, U. S. stocks suffered a series of setbacks.
道琼斯指数在2月24日跌超千点后，2月25日收盘再下跌879.40点，跌幅3.15％，报27081.36点；标普500指数收盘下跌97.70点，跌幅3.03％，报3128.21点，两个交易日已连跌6.3％，为2015年8月以来最大跌幅；纳斯达克指数收盘下跌255.70点，跌幅2.77％，报8965.61点。
The Dow closed down 879.40 points, or 3.15%, at 27081.36 after falling below 1,000 on Feb. 24, while the S & P 500 finished down 97.70 points, or 3.03%, at 3128.21, down 6.3% in two trading days, the biggest drop since August 2015.
为稳定市场情绪，白宫首席经济顾问库德洛赶紧在2月25日表示，美国目前经济状况良好，行政当局控制住了新型冠状病毒疫情。
In an effort to calm market sentiment, White House Chief Economic Adviser Christopher Cudlow told reporters on Feb. 25 that the U.S. economy is in good shape and the administration has brought the new coronavirus under control.
他敦促大家“不要惊慌”。
He urged "not to panic."
他说：“我们的经济状况良好。
"Our economy is doing well," he said.
这个病毒不会持久的。
The virus won't last long.
我们已经控制住了它。
We've got it under control.
我不会说滴水不漏，但这些措施已经非常接近滴水不漏了。
I won't say anything, but these measures are very close to being watertight.
美国做得很好。
The United States is doing well.
”他还说，虽然这次疫情是一场“人类悲剧”，但在他看来可能不会成为一场“经济悲剧”。
He added that although the outbreak was a "human tragedy," it might not be an "economic tragedy" in his view.
杰弗瑞·杨认为，美联储和财政部将不得不祭出更“宽容”工具，像中国政府对银行实行的一系列措施一样，而能让市场企稳的重要正常化指标，是中国一些重要工业省份如广东和浙江最新数据有良好表现。
Jeffery Young argues that the Fed and the Treasury will have to offer more "lenient" tools, like the series of measures imposed by the Chinese government on banks, and that the key normalization indicators that will stabilize the market are the latest data from some important industrial provinces in China, such as Guangdong and Zhejiang.
市场持续上行的希望在于，或者中国疫情企稳，或者世界其他地区迅速采取行动。
The hope that markets will continue to rise is either that the Chinese epidemic stabilizes or that the rest of the world will act quickly.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click Here for more information about the epidemic:: Archives & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and may not be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
新冠疫情席卷64国，全球大流行只待宣布 | 《财经》封面。
With the New Crown sweeping 64 countries, the global pandemic has only to be announced and announced on Caijing's cover.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "新冠疫情席卷64国，全球大流行只待宣布 | 《财经》封面";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "新冠疫情在中国已初步得到遏制，但在六大洲加速蔓延引发多重冲击，世卫组织暂未认定其为“大流行病”，协同抗疫任重道远";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
