珠三角复工调查：短期缺人缺原料，长期供应链外迁。
PRD Resumption Survey: Short-term shortage of raw materials, long-term supply chain outmigration.
陈潇潇 周源 王凤。
Chen Xiaoxiao Zhou Yuan Wang Feng.
财经十一人                      。
Eleven finance and economics.
财经十一人。
Eleven finance and economics.
由《财经》杂志公司产业报道团队创建，研讨企业成败，探究行业兴衰，推动阳光商业。
Founded by Caijing magazine's industry report team, it explores the success or failure of enterprises, probes into the ups and downs of the industry, and promotes sunshine business.
分工越细致，协同起来效率越高、弹性越大，这是珠三角模式的优势。
The more detailed the division of labor, the more efficient and resilient the synergy, which is the advantage of the Pearl River Delta model.
一旦出现问题，整张网络要恢复运转也相对复杂，需要更长时间陈潇潇周源王凤 | 文谢丽容 | 编辑划重点：1. 过去十数年，珠三角发展出了全球绝无仅有的供应链模式。
Once a problem arises, it can take a longer time for the entire network to resume operation. Chen Xiaoxiao Zhou Yuan, Wang Fung and Wang Feng; Editor's Note: 1. Over the past decade or so, the Pearl River Delta (PRD) has developed a unique model of supply chain in the world.
从螺丝钉、金属结构件、再到芯片加工，千百个供应商环环相扣，像乐高积木一样搭成一张网。
From screws and metal structures to chip processing, hundreds of suppliers are linked together in a web of Lego blocks.
2. 中国六成以上的电子加工企业在珠三角地区，大部分自动化产线需要80%以上的员工到位，才能跑起来。
More than 60% of the electronic processing enterprises in China are in the Pearl River Delta region, and most automated production lines require more than 80% of the staff to be in place to be able to run.
3. 为了鼓励新老员工尽快到生产线上，富士康龙华园区推出了相对诱人的入职奖金分批次发放制度：3月31日之前入职，入职满60天发放4250元，入职满90天发放2500元，共计6750元。
In order to encourage new and old employees to join the production line as soon as possible, Foxconn Lung Wah Park has introduced a relatively attractive system for distributing induction bonuses in batches: $4,250 before March 31, $4,250 after 60 days of entry on duty and $6,750 after 90 days of service.
4. 为了救急，大部分企业的做法是把现有人员集中在一些有条件跑起来的产线上。
4. In order to respond to emergencies, the practice of most enterprises is to concentrate their existing personnel on the production lines where conditions permit them to run.
不少公司的管理层人员也临时下产线，临时补充劳动力。
Many of the company's management personnel also temporary production line, temporary supplement labor.
5. 对于供应链企业来说，相比疫情，来自经济下行、产业格局重构以及中美贸易摩擦的影响才是最深远的。
Compared with the epidemic, the impact of the economic downturn, industrial restructuring and trade frictions between China and the United States is the most profound for supply chain enterprises.
6. 综合多家供应链企业的观察，过去为规避风险，大部分国际制造巨头会在同一个国家找两家供应商。
6. Combining the observations of multiple supply chain enterprises, in the past most international manufacturing giants have sought two suppliers in the same country in order to avoid risk.
现在的趋势是一个产品会在两个国家分别设定供应商。
The trend is for a product to be set up in two countries separately.
7. 在两地设立供应链的好处是，一旦国内市场受影响，可以迅速将产能转移至海外，反之亦然。
7. The advantage of having supply chains in both locations is that once the domestic market is affected, capacity can be quickly transferred overseas and vice versa.
要有产品对冲，有市场对冲，有客户对冲，甚至经营模式对冲来抵消负面影响。
Product hedging, market hedging, customer hedging and even business model hedging are needed to offset the negative impact.
“如果我们反应慢一点，就危险了。
"If we slow down a little, it's dangerous.
”拓邦螺丝的市场经理谭鸿霖对《财经》记者说道。
Tam Honglin, marketing manager for the rubbings, told Caijing.
这家位于东莞的螺丝制造企业，在2月10日复工当日就接到了瑞典客户的尽调。
The Dongguan-based screw maker received a chorus from Swedish customers on February 10, the day it resumed work.
对方意思很明确，如果响应不够迅速，可能会被换掉。
The other party makes it clear that if the response is not prompt enough, it may be replaced.
这是珠三角大部分出口外向型制造企业复工日的场景。
This is the Pearl River Delta export-oriented manufacturing enterprises return to work day scene.
拓邦螺丝有六成客户都在海外，新冠肺炎疫情发生后，国内制造业短期内按下了暂停键。
Rubber screws 60% of customers are overseas, after the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia, the domestic manufacturing industry pressed the temporary key.
但这些海外客户的生产还在持续，他们最关注的是供应商复工后的交货能力。
But production by these overseas customers continues, and their primary concern is the ability of suppliers to deliver once they return to work.
刚复工那几天，工作人员几乎每时每刻都在回复客户邮件。
On the first few days of work, staff responded to customers' e-mails almost every hour.
深圳一家金属结构件公司的总经理黄奇告诉《财经》记者，不仅每个客户都会做复工调查，同一个客户，还有不同部门打电话尽调，一个环节要反复确认很多遍。
Huang Qi, the general manager of a metal parts company in Shenzhen, told Caijing that not only will each customer do a rework survey, but also the same customer and different departments will try to make phone calls, one link has to be reconfirmed many times.
据《财经》记者了解，整个珠三角区域，这些出口型制造企业复工最早，受到的考验也首当其冲。
According to Caijing reporter, the entire Pearl River Delta region, these export-oriented manufacturing enterprises return to work at the earliest, was also the first test.
一方面要满足海外客户的追货要求，另一方面，由于2月挤压了订单，现金流受到了考验。
Cash flow has been tested as orders have been squeezed in February while foreign customers' demands for goods have been met.
如果不及时交货，回一部分血，到了4、5月就会面临资金压力。
If you do not deliver the goods in time, you will face financial pressure in April and May if you return some of your blood.
整个供应链的恢复速度比想象中要慢，复工开始了，复产还需要一个调解期。
Recovery along the supply chain has been slower than expected, work has begun and a period of reconciliation is needed to resume production.
“复工的意思是可以开门，就像电影院营业一样，来一个人也算复工。
"To return to work means to be able to open the door, just as the cinema is open, and a man is returned to work.
但是你不一定能保障生产。
But you can't guarantee production.
”黄奇说道。
"said Huang.
接下来，不仅是人员到齐率，材料库存是否能跟上，都将是考验珠三角企业的关键。
Next, is not only the personnel to the same rate, whether the material inventory can keep up, will be a test of the Pearl River Delta enterprises.
人不齐，效率上不去珠三角是外来务工大区，仅广东省的外来务工人员就有2600万，他们来自全国各省市。
The Pearl River Delta is home to 26 million migrant workers from all over the country.
由于多地实行交通管制，人员回流速度也比其他地区要慢。
Owing to increased traffic control, the rate of return movement is also slower than in other areas.
黄奇的公司在苏州也设有工厂，苏州不是劳动力输入型城市，工人以本地人居多，复工两周后已有近百位员工到岗。
Huangqi's company also has factories in Suzhou, which is not a labor-importing city. Most of the workers are local.
但公司位于深圳的厂区，截止目前，只到岗了寥寥几十位工人。
But the company is located in Shenzhen's factory district, so far, only a few dozen workers have been posted.
中国六成以上的电子加工企业在珠三角地区，对于劳动密集型企业而言，产能大小取决于有多少工人按时到岗。
More than 60% of China's electronics processors are in the Pearl River Delta region, and for labor-intensive companies, capacity depends on how many workers arrive on time.
事实上，大部分自动化产线需要80%以上的员工到位，才能跑起来。
In fact, most automated production lines require more than 80% of the workforce to be in place to run.
“一个萝卜一个坑，产线上的环节是连续的，人少了开不起来。
"A rodent is a pit, and the link in the line of production is continuous, and it is impossible to open a man without one.
”黄奇说道。
"said Huang.
以自动化产线为主的富士康陷入用工荒。
Foxconn, which focuses on automated production lines, is suffering from labor shortages.
一位深圳富士康龙华园区的主管告诉《财经》记者，截至2月28日，园区的复工率是30%，“生产线基本处于半开工状态。
As of February 28, the rework rate in the park was 30 percent, and "the production line is almost at work," a director of the Foxconn Longhua Park in Shenzhen told Caijing.
”为了尽快恢复产能，每个师级干部都有人头任务，必须推荐一个普通员工进厂上班。
In order to restore capacity as soon as possible, every division-level cadre has a head-on task and must recommend an ordinary employee to the factory.
完成了有奖金，但完不成影响绩效。
Bonuses were paid, but performance was not affected.
为了鼓励新老员工尽快到生产线上，富士康龙华园区推出了相对诱人的入职奖金分批次发放制度：3月31日之前入职，入职满60天发放4250元，入职满90天发放2500元，共计6750元。
In order to encourage new and old employees to join the production line as soon as possible, Foxconn Lung Wah Park has introduced a relatively attractive system for distributing induction bonuses in batches: $4,250 before March 31, $4,250 after 60 days of service and $6,750 after 90 days of service.
另一种情况是，有时人到齐了，少了关键岗位的人也不行。
On the other hand, there are times when people are here, even when there are fewer key positions.
尤其是那些需要工程师级别的人员随时在场的产线。
Especially those that require the presence of engineers at all times.
“工程师本身就在产线上占一个岗位，如果缺了，哪怕其余人员都齐，这条线也开不下去。
"The engineer himself holds a position on the production line, and if it is missing, even if the rest of us are here, it won't go on.
”黄奇说道。
"said Huang.
经《财经》记者调查，多数珠三角企业的人员要到3月中下旬才能齐全。
According to Caijing reporter survey, most of the Pearl River Delta enterprise personnel will not be complete until the middle and second half of March.
为了救急，大部分企业的做法是把现有人员集中在一些有条件跑起来的产线上。
In order to rescue the emergency, the practice of most enterprises is to concentrate the existing personnel in a number of conditional on the production line.
不少公司的管理层人员也临时下产线，临时补充劳动力。
Many of the company's management personnel also temporary production line, temporary supplement labor.
从2月17日起，黄奇公司的深圳工厂，从厂长、经理到办公室人员都亲自上了产线，加班加点出货，只求能回一点现金流。
From Feb. 17, Huang Qi's Shenzhen factory, from the factory director, manager to the office staff are personally on the production line, working overtime, just to return a little cash flow.
但由于办公室人员不熟悉动作，整条线下来，效率并不高。
But because the office staff is not familiar with the action, the whole line down, the efficiency is not high.
深圳江波龙电子有限公司董事长蔡华波告诉《财经》记者，由于各种限制，即便人员到了七成，目前效率也只能恢复到平时的30%。
Cai Huaobo, chairman of Shenzhen-based Jiangbolong Electronics Co., told Caijing that because of restrictions, even with 70 percent of the staff, the efficiency can now be restored to 30 percent as usual.
不过，蔡华波认为，很多企业目前主要关注员工到岗问题，一个月之后，原材料短缺现象可能才是最大的挑战。
Still, Mr. Cai says many companies are focused on employee absenteeism, and a month later, a shortage of raw materials may be the biggest challenge.
破解材料短缺难题深圳市集和诚科技有限公司是一家生产工业控制计算机（简称工控机）的企业。
Cracking Material Shortcomings Shenzhen Ji He Cheng Technology Co., Ltd. is an industrial control computer (ICPC) production enterprise.
该公司资深主管刘芸告诉《财经》记者，虽然芯片、主板等核心元器件备货较为充足，不太担心。
Liu Yun, senior director of the company, told Caijing that although the chip, motherboard and other core components are more adequate, not worried.
但结构件有可能出现短缺，“一台计算机少一个零件都没办法发货的。
But there may be a shortage of structural parts, "a computer without a spare part can not be shipped.
”刘芸说。
"said Liu Yun.
结构件厂商们也在担心原材料供应问题。
Structural-parts makers are also worried about the supply of raw materials.
黄奇公司生产的轴就是一种结构件，主要用于打印机等办公设备，其主材是塑胶和加工后的金属。
Huangqi production shaft is a kind of structural parts, mainly used for printers and other office equipment, the main material is plastic and processed metal.
这些主材供应商也有自己的下游供应商，比如钢铁厂，他忧心钢铁厂产能是否能供应及时。
These suppliers also have their own downstream suppliers, such as steel mills, which he worries will be supplied in time.
据《财经》记者了解，不少珠三角的不锈钢厂、特殊材料厂的彻底供应要到4月。
According to Caijing reporter, many of the Pearl River Delta stainless steel factories, special materials factories will be a thorough supply until April.
但黄奇手里的材料库存只够一个月了。
But Huang has only one month left in stock.
现在，每天一睁眼，就是给供应商打电话，只要有货，就立刻囤上。
Now, open your eyes every day, is to call the supplier, as long as the goods, immediately hoard.
这也是大部分珠三角企业的库存状态。
This is also the status of most enterprises in the Pearl River Delta inventory.
库存意味着一部分现金流变成了固定资产，刘芸告诉《财经》记者，零部件都有安全库存量指标，例如，主板库存周期一般在1到2个月左右。
Inventories mean part of the cash flow becomes fixed assets, and Ms. Liu told Caijing that spare parts have safety measures, such as a typical motherboard inventory cycle of about one to two months.
对于大部分消费类电子行业，这个周期更短，原因是产品更新太快。
For most consumer electronics, the cycle is shorter because products are being updated too quickly.
“上个月的产品要求，到了这月可能就变了，部件也得跟着换。
"The product requirements of last month may change this month and the parts will have to be changed as well.
”一家面向欧美客户的OEM厂商对《财经》表示，中小型电子组装厂几乎都不敢轻易囤货。
OEM, an OEM company for customers in Europe and the US, told Caijing that small and medium-sized electronics assembly plants were almost afraid to hoard goods.
但现在由于缺少元器件，复产艰难。
But the lack of components now makes it difficult to revive production.
多位行业人士认为，之所以目前整个供应链没有暴露出明显问题，是因为大家还在消化库存。
Many industry people believe that the whole supply chain did not expose obvious problems, because people are still digesting the inventory.
等库存一旦消耗完，又来不及补充，才是考验来临的时候。
Once the stock is used up, and not enough time to replenish, is the time of the test.
过去十数年，珠三角发展出了全球绝无仅有的供应链模式。
Over the past decade or so, the Pearl River Delta has developed a unique global supply chain model.
从螺丝钉、金属结构件、再到芯片加工，千百个供应商环环相扣，像乐高积木一样搭成一张网。
From screws and metal structures to chip processing, hundreds of suppliers are linked together in a web of Lego blocks.
一台理光打印机上有700多个零件，95%都在珠三角生产，退回去10年这些零部件80%要从日本进口。
One polish printer has more than 700 parts, 95% of which are made in the Pearl River Delta, and 80% of which will have to be imported from Japan 10 years back.
刘芸就告诉《财经》记者，该公司原材料采购主要集中在珠三角地区。
Liu told Caijing that the company's raw material procurement is mainly concentrated in the Pearl River Delta region.
理论上讲，分工越细致，协同起来效率越高、弹性越大，这是珠三角模式的优势。
Theoretically, the more detailed the division of labor, the higher the synergy efficiency, the greater the flexibility, this is the advantage of the Pearl River Delta model.
可一旦出现问题，整张网络要恢复运转也相对复杂。
But once something goes wrong, getting the network back to work is relatively complicated.
这是因为供应是链条式的，断供也是链条式的。
This is because the supply is chain-linked and the interruption is chain-linked.
“即便我不缺原材料，但如果我的合作伙伴缺零部件，整体还是存在问题。
"Even if I don't need the raw materials, if my partner is short of parts, the whole problem remains.
”蔡华波对《财经》记者说道。
'Mr. Cai told Caijing.
一旦缺货，要更换材料供应商也不是一件容易的事情。
Once out of stock, it is not easy to change the material supplier.
据刘芸介绍，重新开发一款主板，算上评估用料以及前期研发验证、测试，至少需要两三个月。
According to Liu Yun, the redevelopment of a motherboard, taking into account the evaluation of materials and prior research and development validation, testing, at least two or three months.
这意味着任何一个零部件供应不上，对于整个产业链来说，都可能是致命的。
This means that any part of the supply is not available, for the entire industrial chain, can be fatal.
原材料囤货的现象已经出现了。
The hoarding of raw materials has occurred.
但能不能囤到足够的货，依然取决于现金流和资源的储备，在这一点上，巨头有绝对的优势。
But getting enough stock still depends on cash flow and reserves of resources, where the giant has an absolute advantage.
据《财经》记者了解，有大厂直接锁住了一家存储芯片厂商的一整条产线。
According to Caijing reporter, there is a large factory directly locked a storage chip manufacturer of a whole production line.
这家存储芯片本来是刘芸的供应商之一。
The memory chip was originally one of Liu Yun's suppliers.
“也就是说，这家厂是不可能再向我们这些小公司供货了。
"In other words, it's impossible for this factory to supply any more of our smaller companies.
”无奈之下，该公司只得转向其他供应商。
But the company had to turn to other suppliers.
一些元器件代理商则有意 “捂货”。
Some component agents are deliberately "covering goods."
仍以存储芯片为例，韩国三星是全球最大的内存和闪存芯片生产企业，SK海力士是全球第二大内存生产企业，随着韩国新冠疫情日益严重，珠三角的一些芯片代理商玩起了惜售，刘芸表示，存储芯片也是一天一个价。
Still taking memory chips as an example, South Korea's Samsung is the world's largest maker of memory and flash memory chips, SK Haishi is the world's second largest memory producer. As South Korea's new crown gets worse, some chip dealers in the Pearl River Delta are playing hard to sell.
加速供应链海外布局尽管供应链受到了冲击，但大部分企业依然认为，影响是短期的。
Accelerating Supply Chain Offshore Layout Despite the supply chain shock, most companies still believe the impact is short-term.
据《财经》记者了解，从2月下旬起，包括东莞在内的多数珠三角城市已开始实行先复工后审核的政策，另一方面，随着各地交通管制的放开，复工复产的步伐在明显加快。
Since late February, most cities in the Pearl River Delta region, including Dongguan, have adopted a work-back-to-work policy, according to Caijing. On the other hand, with the liberalization of local traffic control, the pace of resumption of work has accelerated markedly.
广东省人力资源和社会保障厅数据显示，截止2月21日，广东全省企业复工率为45.5%，其中，988家重点用工企业复工率为49.7%。
Data from the Guangdong Provincial Human Resources and Social Security Administration show that as of February 21, the rework rate of enterprises across Guangdong was 45.5 percent, of which 988 key industrial enterprises had resumed work at 49.7 percent.
多家珠三角企业乐观估计，供应链有望在4月恢复到80%。
Several Pearl River Delta companies are optimistic that the supply chain could recover to 80% in April.
拓邦螺丝总经理王宏对《财经》表示，对于供应链企业而言，相比疫情，来自经济下行、产业格局重构以及中美贸易摩擦的影响才是最深远的。
Wang Hong, general manager of Rio Tinto screws, told Caijing that the impact of the downturn, industrial restructuring and Sino-US trade frictions was more profound for supply chain companies than for the epidemic.
事实上，一些大型跨国企业已经在调整其供应链策略。
Indeed, some large multinationals are already adjusting their supply-chain strategies.
过去一年，由于中美贸易摩擦，业内已形成了一个共识：不能将所有鸡蛋放在同一个篮子、供应链需要足够的弹性来应对任何可能出现的国际情势变化。
Over the past year, as a result of trade frictions between China and the US, there has been a consensus in the industry that all eggs cannot be put together in one basket and that the supply chain needs to be flexible enough to cope with any possible changes in international conditions.
现在疫情加速了这一过程。
Now the epidemic has accelerated the process.
谭鸿霖告诉《财经》记者，疫情已促使其瑞典客户成立了专项团队，准备同时在海外重新建设压铸件、塑胶件等零部件的供应链。
Tan told Caijing that the outbreak has prompted its Swedish customers to set up special teams to rebuild the supply chain of die castings, plastic parts and other components overseas.
另据《财经》记者了解，包括佳能、兄弟在内的日系厂商也都有加速改变其供应链格局的意愿。
According to Caijing reporter, including Canon, brothers and other Japanese manufacturers are also willing to accelerate changes in their supply chain pattern.
综合多家供应链企业的观察，过去为规避风险，大部分国际制造巨头会在同一个国家找两家供应商。
In the past, to avoid risk, most international manufacturing giants would find two suppliers in the same country.
现在的趋势是一个产品会在两个国家分别设定供应商。
The trend is for a product to be set up in two countries separately.
这意味着，疫情过后，供应链企业如何更好地适应新的产业格局，提升自我竞争力才是更核心的问题。
This means that, after the epidemic, how supply chain enterprises can better adapt to the new industrial pattern, improve self-competitiveness is the more central issue.
蔡华波认为，有能力的供应链企业加速海外布局将是一大趋势。
Cai Huaobo believes that the ability of supply chain enterprises to accelerate overseas distribution will be a major trend.
事实上，正是出于风险考虑，公司此前将60%的产能都放在了海外。
Indeed, it was because of risk that the company had previously put 60 per cent of its production capacity overseas.
这次疫情发生后，基于国外的供应链，公司的海外工厂并没有受到影响，对冲掉了国内的一些损失。
After the outbreak, based on foreign supply chains, the company's overseas factories were not affected, to wash away some of the domestic losses.
在两地设立供应链的好处是，“一旦国内市场受影响，可以迅速将产能转移至海外，反之亦然。
The advantage of having supply chains in both locations is that "once the domestic market is affected, capacity can be quickly transferred overseas, and vice versa."
要有产品对冲，有市场对冲，有客户对冲，甚至经营模式对冲来抵消负面影响。
Product hedging, market hedging, customer hedging and even business model hedging are needed to offset the negative impact.
”他对《财经》记者说道。
'he told Caijing.
在时刻变化的国际形势中，多点开花无疑是提升综合竞争力的重要手段。
In the changing international situation, multi-point flowering is undoubtedly an important means to enhance comprehensive competitiveness.
黄奇对《财经》记者表示，公司在国内有竞争对手，但由于在越南设有工厂，尽管产能爬坡吃力，上游厂商并没有更换供应商。
Huang told Caijing that the company had competitors at home, but because it had factories in Vietnam, upstream companies did not change suppliers despite the difficulty of ramping up capacity.
作者为《财经》记者，本作品著作权归《财经》独家所有，授权深圳市腾讯计算机系统有限公司独家享有信息网络传播权，任何第三方未经授权，不得转载。
The writer is a reporter for Caijing. The copyright of this work belongs to Caijing exclusively, and authorizes the Shenzhen Tencent Computer System Co. Ltd. to enjoy exclusive rights of information network transmission.
作者：陈潇潇微信：karine1986欢迎交流~加微信请注明姓名、公司、职务责编 | 蒋丽lijiang@caijing.com.cn。
Author: Chen Xiaoxiao micro-mail: welcome to communicate ~ 1986 Please note your name, company, job description and # 124; Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
珠三角复工调查：短期缺人缺原料，长期供应链外迁。
PRD Resumption Survey: Short-term shortage of raw materials, long-term supply chain outmigration.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经十一人";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics.
var msg_title = "珠三角复工调查：短期缺人缺原料，长期供应链外迁";。
var msg _ title = & quot; PRD Restart Survey: Short-term supply chain outmigration;;
var msg_desc = "分工越细致，协同起来效率越高、弹性越大，这是珠三角模式的优势。
var msg _ desc = & quot; the more detailed the division, the more efficient and resilient it is, the better the PRD model.
一旦出现问题，整张网络要恢复运转也相对复杂，需要更长时间";。
; Once the problem occurred, the whole network was relatively complicated to get back to work, requiring AT & quot; longer;;
title: '心理援助：另一个抗疫战场',。
AT & P; Psychological assistance: Another battle with plague AT & apos;.
subject_name: '财经十一人',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
title: '武汉蔬菜肉蛋价格为什么上涨，谁有权卖菜？',。
Why did Wuhan prices for vegetable eggs rise and who had the right to sell its vegetables?
subject_name: '财经十一人',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
title: '山东半岛“韩流”来袭？各城市严防境外疫情回流',。
Has South Korea's Shandong Peninsula come and gone? Cities have been heavily protected against foreign flights.
subject_name: '财经十一人',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
title: '支持复工，“三桶油”降气价为何难过两大电网降电价',。
Why did AT & rsquo; t pay at & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '财经十一人',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
var title ="财经十一人";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; 11; & quot;
