疫情全球蔓延，大型跨国广告集团怎么上班？。
Global spread of the epidemic, large multinational advertising groups how to work?
马越。
Ma Yue.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
记者：马越  编辑：牙韩翔“ 多家广告公司向界面新闻证实，远程办公成为目前新常态，而往返中国、日本、伊朗、韩国、和意大利北部等地的商务旅行多数被禁止。
"Telecommuting has become the new normal, and most business travel to and from China, Japan, Iran, South Korea and northern Italy has been banned," he said.
”新冠肺炎疫情的蔓延，开始呈现全球化趋势——世界卫生组织（WHO）称，截至北京时间3月2日17点，24小时内中国境外新增病例数几乎是中国境内的9倍，已经蔓延至除南极洲外所有大洲。
The spread of the new crown pneumonia epidemic is beginning to take on a global character with the World Health Organisation (WHO) reporting that the number of new cases outside China within 24 hours was nearly nine times that in China as of 1700 hours Beijing time, spreading to all continents except Antarctica.
中国以外累计病例超过万人。
The cumulative number of cases outside China exceeds 10,000.
疫情之下，大型跨国广告集团纷纷采取了相应措施，包括远程办公、限制前往受疫情影响国家和地区差旅，也有少数公司暂时关闭了办公室。
In response, large multinational advertising groups have responded, including telecommuting, restricting travel to affected countries and regions, and a small number of companies have temporarily closed their offices.
总部位于日本东京的电通安吉斯集团备受关注，截止3月3日，日本累计确诊病例276人（另外钻石公主号累计确诊706人）。
As of March 3, a cumulative total of 276 cases had been confirmed in Japan, with 706 others confirmed by Princess Diamond, the Tokyo-based telecom company.
而根据彭博社消息，电通集团东京总部一名50多岁的男性职员在24日被确诊，总公司全部员工从26日起在家办公。
According to Bloomberg, telecom group headquarters in Tokyo, a 50-year-old male staff was diagnosed on the 24th, the head office staff from 26 work from home.
随着中国疫情逐步得到控制和整体复工复产，电通安吉斯告诉界面新闻，目前除了武汉，中国其他所有办公室都已经开放。
With the Chinese epidemic under control and the overall resumption of production, the company told Interface News that all offices in China, with the exception of Wuhan, were open.
集团安排员工从2月10日开始远程办公，自2月24日起开始错峰到办公室办公。
The group has arranged for telecommuting from Feb. 10, and has been working in offices since Feb. 24.
部门主管可根据实际业务需求，在可返回办公室的员工中指定不超过50%的员工返回办公室工作，但需得到提前申请并得到品牌 CEO的批准，其余同事则继续在家移动办公。
Heads of department can assign no more than 50 per cent of staff who can return to the office to return to the office based on actual operational needs, subject to prior application and approval by the brand CEO, while the rest of the staff remain mobile at home.
针对最近疫情蔓延至更多国家和地区，电通安吉斯在发布给员工的最新旅行指南政策中强调，所有商务旅行必须提前得到集团CEO的批准。
Responding to the recent spread of the epidemic to more countries and regions, the company stressed in its latest travel guidelines policy to employees that all business travel must be approved in advance by the group's CEO.
受限制的旅行目的地名单将随着情况的变化而更新。
The list of restricted destinations will be updated as the situation evolves.
目前，在另行通知之前，电通安吉斯不允许员工往返韩国大邱和清道郡地区、意大利北部伦巴第和威尼托地区、伊朗和电通东京总部（汐留地区）进行商务旅行。
Currently, until further notice, Teletomos does not allow staff to travel between Daegu and Ching-Do counties in South Korea, Lombardy and Veneto in northern Italy, Iran and the Tokyo headquarters of Telecommuting (Tidal region).
如果有员工从最近从上述任何地点返回（无论是商务或个人旅行），都必须通知其部门经理和当地人力资源负责人，并自我隔离14天。
If an employee returns from any of the above locations recently (whether for business or personal travel), the department manager and the local head of human resources must be notified and self-segregated for 14 days.
埃培智集团（Interpublic Group）已限制所有往来中国和韩国的商务旅行，直至另行通知。
Interpublic Group has restricted all business travel to and from China and South Korea until further notice.
根据Adweek报道称，埃培智集团要求最近去过中国大陆、韩国或意大利的任何员工都必须在家工作14天，以及与上述地点旅行的人有过密切接触的员工也必须在家工作14天。
According to Adweek, the company requires any employee who has recently been to China, South Korea or Italy to work from home for 14 days, as well as employees who have been in close contact with those who travel to those locations for 14 days.
埃培智集团发言人表示，公司正在和医疗顾问密切合作，监控市场情况，调整工作安排，以确保其员工的安全。
A spokesman for Apee-chi said the company was working closely with medical consultants to monitor the market and adjust work arrangements to ensure the safety of its employees.
同时也在和技术部门合作，以应对可能出现的居家办公时间延长的情况。
Work is also under way with technical departments to respond to possible extensions of working hours at home.
Adweek报道称，宏盟集团（Omnicom Group）在2月26日实施了针对员工的差旅规定，包括推迟所有往返中国大陆、日本、香港、伊朗、新加坡、韩国、泰国、台湾和意大利北部的商务旅行，直到另行通知。
Adweek reported that on February 26, Omnicom Group imposed travel rules for its employees, including postponing all business trips to and from mainland China, Japan, Hong Kong, Iran, Singapore, the Republic of Korea, Thailand, Taiwan and northern Italy until further notice.
员工从上述国家或地区返回，也要居家隔离14天。
Employees returning from the above-mentioned countries or areas are also housed in isolation for 14 days.
宏盟集团旗下的BBDO北京办公室向界面新闻确认了这一规定，并表示大中华区自疫情开始以来，就已经要求取消全部出差，也成立了疫情紧急小组，每周都会根据疫情最新情况发布应对措施。
The BBDO Beijing office of the macro-alliance group confirmed the rule to Interface News, saying that Greater China has called for all travel to be cancelled since the outbreak began, and that emergency teams have been set up to issue weekly responses based on the latest outbreaks.
目前北京和上海办公室采取了错峰上班的安排。
The Beijing and Shanghai offices are now staggered to work.
哈瓦斯集团（Havas Group）已暂停往返“高风险暴露地区”的商务旅行，直至另行通知。
Havas Group has suspended business travel to and from high-risk areas until further notice.
截止目前，这些地区包括大中华区、新加坡、韩国和意大利的伦巴第和威尼托等地区。
So far, they include Greater China, Singapore, South Korea and Italy's Lombardy and Veneto regions.
此外，任何从这些地区出差、私人旅行或中途停留的人，在返回时必须进行14天隔离。
In addition, any person travelling from these areas on business, private travel or stopover must be segregated for 14 days upon return.
而哈瓦斯表示，这些员工可以在家工作，也可以休假。
But Hawass said the employees could work from home or take vacations.
WPP旗下的奥美中国告诉界面新闻，根据各地政府政策的不同，北京办公室从2月3日起恢复远程办公，上海、广州、深圳从2月10日起开始远程复工。
WPP's Ogilvy and American China told the Interface News that telecommuting had resumed in Beijing on February 3 and in Shanghai, Guangzhou and Shenzhen from February 10, depending on local government policies.
从2月17日起，北京、上海、广州、深圳办公室开始恢复正常运作，但同时公司还是鼓励员工在家办公，视工作状况而选择是否需要进入办公室。
Since February 17, offices in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Shenzhen have resumed normal operations, but employees are encouraged to work from home and choose whether to enter the office depending on their job status.
前往奥美办公室办公的员工，则都必须已在工作所在地完成 14天的居家健康观察，员工进入办公室需要在前一天进行报备及申请，以便公司随时掌握办公室内人员情况。
Workers travelling to Ogilvy and Ogilvy's offices must complete a 14-day stay-at-home health survey at their workplace, where employees must report and apply the day before entering the office so that the company can keep track of the office workforce.
员工每天在办公室工作建议不超过6小时，并须于晚7点前离开办公室。
Employees are advised to work no more than 6 hours a day in the office and leave the office before 7 pm.
同时，奥美中国基本上停止所有差旅，但若有任何急迫需要的差旅，必须由各办公室负责人批准。
At the same time, Ogilvy and American China essentially stopped all travel, but any urgent travel had to be approved by the heads of offices.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情全球蔓延，大型跨国广告集团怎么上班？。
Global spread of the epidemic, large multinational advertising groups how to work?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "疫情全球蔓延，大型跨国广告集团怎么上班？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "多家广告公司向界面新闻证实，远程办公成为目前新常态，而往返中国、日本、伊朗、韩国、和意大利北部等地的商务旅行多数被禁止。
var msg _ desc = & quot; A number of advertising agencies have confirmed to Interface News that telecommuting has become the new normal and that most business travel to and from China, Japan, Iran, South Korea, and northern Italy has been banned.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
