卫健委专家组成员王广发的流行病学样本：我应是气溶胶传播感染的。
Epidemiological sample of Wang Guangfa, a member of the health care committee: I should be an aerosol-borne infection.
赵孟。
Zhao Meng.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国记者：赵孟“ 作为一名专业医生，又是感染者，王广发说，希望自己的观察和思考，能为疫情防控工作提供有益的借鉴。
Photo source: China Visual: Zhao Meng "As a professional doctor, is also infected, Wang Guangfa said, I hope their observation and thinking, can provide useful lessons for disease prevention and control work.
”事后回忆，王广发一直觉得自己感染新冠肺炎“很奇怪”。
In retrospect, Wang Guangfa always thought he was "very strange" to have contracted pneumonia.
2020年1月8日，王广发作为国家卫健委专家组成员，与其他专家到武汉参与新冠肺炎防治工作。
On January 8, 2020, Wang Guangfa as a member of the national health committee expert group, along with other experts to Wuhan to participate in the prevention and treatment of New Crown Pneumonia.
12天后，他在北京被确诊。
Twelve days later, he was diagnosed in Beijing.
作为北京大学第一医院呼吸和危重症医学科主任，王广发参加过包括SARS在内的多起疫情防控工作，一直平安无事，此次他被感染引发舆论热切关注。
Wang Guangfa, director of respiratory and critical medicine at Peking University's First Hospital, has been involved in a number of cases, including SARS, and has been safe from infection.
王广发是如何被感染的？与他密切接触的人员状况如何？他又是如何治疗康复的？发病以来，王广发自己也经常困惑，“得了一场病，还是有不少思考的。
How did Wang Guangfa get infected? What was the situation of the people in close contact with him? How did he treat and recover? Since the onset of the disease, Wang Guangfa himself is often confused.
”他告诉界面新闻，清晰的流行病学调查，对于认识病毒传播路径和疫情防控大有裨益，但目前，国内尚缺乏针对新冠肺炎个案比较清晰的流行病学调查，于是他通过对自己发病过程的追溯，“拼图”出一份新冠肺炎轻症患者的“流行病学调查报告”。
He told Interface News that clear epidemiological investigations were useful in understanding the route of transmission of the virus and in preventing and controlling the disease, but that there was no clear epidemiological investigation of cases of pneumonia in China.
作为一名专业医生，又是感染者，王广发说，希望自己的观察和思考，能为疫情防控工作提供有益的借鉴。
As a professional doctor and an infected person, Wang Guangfa said he hoped that his observation and thinking, can provide a useful reference for disease prevention and control.
“气溶胶传播基本可以证实”在武汉期间，除了查看病例和开会讨论疫情，作为医疗救治专家的王广发，还亲自去武汉多家定点收治医院，了解病人的救治情况。
"Aerosol transmission can be basically confirmed" In Wuhan, in addition to cases and meetings to discuss the outbreak, Wang Guangfa, as a medical expert, also went to Wuhan designated hospitals, to understand the treatment of patients.
“我们希望了解这个疫情到底有多严重，就必须要去看病人。
"We want to understand how serious the epidemic really is, we have to see the patients.
”王广发说，所以医院的ICU病房和发热门诊无法绕开。
So the hospital's ICU ward and the fever clinic could not be bypassed, Wang said.
在最早收治新冠肺炎病人的武汉市金银潭医院，王广发去了ICU病房，当时一个重症病人身体需要插管，他还帮助该院的医生一起插管。
At the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital in Wuhan, where he first admitted patients with pneumonia, Wang went to the ICU ward, where a critically ill patient needed an intubation and helped the hospital's doctor intubate.
当时，他穿着防护服，带着护目镜。
He was wearing protective clothing and goggles.
事后，他了解到该院ICU病房主任也被感染，但属于轻症患者。
Later, he learned that the hospital ICU ward director was also infected, but belongs to the light disease patients.
王广发不认为自己是在ICU病房被感染，毕竟当时“全副武装”，而且暴露时间并不长。
Wang didn't think he was infected in the ICU ward, which was "heavily armed" and had been exposed for only a short time.
除了这家ICU病房，专家组还去了多家医院的发热门诊。
In addition to this ICU ward, the Group visited a number of hospital fever clinics.
在发热门诊，他们只戴着口罩，没有带护目镜，也没穿防护服。
At the fever clinic, they were wearing nothing but masks, goggles and protective clothing.
根据中国医院的发热门诊有关规范，护目镜并不是医生的标配，但在美国和世界卫生组织的操作规范中，发热门诊医生必须佩戴护目镜工作。
According to the regulations of the Chinese hospital, goggles are not a doctor's standard, but in the United States and World Health Organization operating rules, fever clinic doctors must wear goggles to work.
1月14日，王广发与另两位人士一起去一家医院的发热门诊。
On January 14, Wang and two other people went to a fever clinic in a hospital.
他进入病区，与发热门诊主任交流，并查看CT影像，询问病人的情况。
He went into the area, spoke to the fever clinic director, looked at CT images, and asked about the patient.
王广发在这家医院的发热门诊待了大约半小时。
Wang Guangfa spent about half an hour at the hospital's fever clinic.
发热门诊积压了许多人，但都没有进行核酸检测，因此无法确诊，这让他想起了17年前SARS爆发时的景象。
The fever clinic has a huge backlog of people, but none of them has been tested for nucleic acids, making it impossible to diagnose, reminiscent of the SARS outbreak 17 years ago.
王广发查看胸片CT后，发现与确诊患者极为相似，初步判断这些人已经被感染。
Wang Guangfa looked at the chest CT, found very similar to the confirmed patients, the preliminary judgement that these people have been infected.
王广发事后得知，这家医院发热门诊的主任，于1月15日，即陪同他一起到发热门诊的次日，出现身体不适，最后确诊感染新冠肺炎，而他自己则于1月16日出现身体不适，“差不多同时”。
Wang Guangfa later learned that on January 15, the day after accompanying him to the fever clinic, the director of the hospital's fever clinic developed symptoms and was finally diagnosed with pneumonia, while he himself developed symptoms "around the same time" on January 16.
王广发根据自己的记忆，画出了这家医院发热门诊的格局图。
Wang Guangfa drew a map of the fever clinic in the hospital according to his memory.
印象中发热门诊空间较大，几十个病人聚集在一处，但这里没有窗户，只有一个很小的通风口，这里的空气中病毒含量较高。
The impression of a hot clinic space, dozens of patients gathered in one place, but there are no windows, only a small vent, here in the air virus content is high.
王广发后来请上述发热门诊主任拍下照片发给他，印证了他自己的记忆。
Wang Guangfa later asked the director of the fever clinic to take photos and send him photos, confirming his own memory.
“我们当时说话的时候，还有意识的保持了一定距离。
"When we were talking, we were conscious of the distance," he said.
”王广发说，“当时也没有喷溅，所以排除飞沫传播”，由于口鼻都被保护起来，唯一暴露在外面的黏膜只有眼睛，最后他得出结论，新冠病毒通过气溶胶传播侵入眼睛致人感染。
"There was no spray, so the foam spread was excluded," Wang said. "The only mucous membrane exposed to the outside was the eye, as the mouth and nose were protected.
气溶胶通常指大小为0.001~100微米的固体或液体小粒子，分散并悬浮于气体中形成的胶体分散体系。
Aerosols are typically small solid or liquid particles of 0.001 to 100 microns in size, dispersed and suspended in a colloidal dispersion system.
大气中的自然微生物，主要是非病原体的腐生菌、细菌、真菌、衣原体等，都可以在一定的条件下形成气溶胶悬浮在空气中。
Natural microorganisms in the atmosphere, mainly non-pathogenic saprophytes, bacteria, fungi, chlamydia, etc. can form aerosols suspended in the air under certain conditions.
在飞沫传播方式中，由于飞沫直径较大，在空气中迅速下沉，通常表示较近距离的传播。
In droplet propagation, the droplet is larger in diameter and sinks rapidly in the air, usually indicating closer propagation.
但气溶胶传播在理论上能达到数十米，乃至数百米，远远超过飞沫的传播距离。
But aerosol propagation can theoretically reach tens or even hundreds of meters, far exceeding the transmission distance of droplets.
有研究显示，SARS病毒也可以通过气溶胶传播。
Studies have shown that the SARS virus can also spread via aerosols.
王广发曾将自己的分析告诉同行，一些人表示质疑，认为他是用手揉眼睛，将病毒带入眼睛，但王广发说，作为一名专业医生，他对病毒的防控意识较强，并没有用手揉过眼睛。
Wang told his colleagues that some questioned whether he had rubbed his eyes with his hands to get the virus into his eyes, but Wang said he was a professional doctor who was more aware of the virus and did not rub his eyes with his hands.
王广发认为，他对自己被感染情况的追溯，可以为存在气溶胶传播提供有力证据。
Wang believes that his retrospective knowledge of his infection provides strong evidence of the presence of aerosols.
除了与共同暴露在发热门诊，又“差不多同时”感染的那位主任的“阳性对照”，王广发还分析了“阴性对照”的情况，即未感染者的活动路径与感染情况的关联。
Wang also analysed the "negative controls" - the link between the route of activity of the uninfected and the infection - in addition to the positive controls with the director, who was also exposed to the fever clinic at the same time as the infection.
当时，另外两位同行人员中，一人未进入病人区，一人在门口站着，这两人恰好都没有被感染。
At the time, one of the other two colleagues did not enter the patient area and one stood at the door, neither of whom happened to be infected.
对传染源的追溯，让王广发思考中国发热门诊的建设问题。
On the source of infection trace, let Wang Guangfa think about the construction of fever clinic in China.
与国外医院发热门诊普遍针对流行病不同，中国医院的发热门诊多数是临时性的，平时的病例不多，但疫情爆发后又要承担重任，发热门诊的硬件设计和医护人员操作规范，都存在应对流行病的漏洞。
Different from foreign hospitals, most of the fever clinics in Chinese hospitals are temporary in nature, and there are few cases in normal times. However, after the outbreak of the epidemic, there are loopholes in the design of the hardware of the fever clinic and the standard of operation of medical personnel.
“建太大又浪费资源，太狭小又很难应付疫情。
"Too big and too wasteful, too small and too difficult to deal with the epidemic.
”王广发说，鉴于中国的医疗制度和人口规模，在国外很难找到借鉴经验，今后中国的发热门诊如何建设，需要认真研究。
"Given China's medical system and population size, it is difficult to find experience in foreign countries," Wang said.
“戴口罩可减少病毒侵入量”1月16日，王广发回到北京，当日下午，他觉得眼角膜不适，开始是一侧，接着两侧都出现不适。
"Wearing a mask can reduce viral invasions." Wang returned to Beijing on January 16 and felt corneal discomfort that afternoon, first on one side and then on both sides.
到了晚上，他身体发烧，并伴随咳嗽，流鼻涕、打喷嚏等上呼吸道症状。
At night, he developed a fever, accompanied by cough, runny nose, sneezing and other upper respiratory symptoms.
王广发初期没有觉得自己会感染新冠肺炎。
Wang initially did not think he would be infected with pneumonia.
他在武汉看到的41例早期新冠肺炎病例中，病人表现出的都是下呼吸道症状，比如干咳、呼吸困难等。
In 41 cases of early neonatal pneumonia he saw in Wuhan, the patients presented with lower respiratory symptoms such as dry cough and dyspnea.
加之他去过的发热门诊，也有一些流感患者，王广发认为自己染上了流感，对于采取了抗流感治疗。
Add to that the fever clinic he visited, and there were a few cases of flu, and Wang Guangfa thought he had the flu and was treated for it.
1月19日，他又开始发烧了，头疼。
On January 19th he began to have a fever and a headache.
他发现抗流感药无效，遂开始考虑是否感染新冠肺炎。
Finding the antiflu drug ineffective, he began to wonder if he might be infected with pneumonia.
当日下午，他到医院做了核酸检测，次日结果出来显示阳性，他被确诊了。
That afternoon, he went to the hospital for a nucleic acid test, and the next day it turned out to be positive and he was diagnosed.
1月21日，王广发住进医院，接受隔离治疗。
On 21 January, Wang Guangfa was admitted to the hospital for isolation treatment.
从1月14日去发热门诊，到1月21日开始隔离治疗的6天里，王广发乘坐出租车、坐飞机、开会，与许多人有过密切接触，这密切接触者是否被感染，成为个案流行病学调查的重点。
From the fever clinic on January 14 to the six days of isolation treatment on January 21, Wang Guangfa had close contact with many people in taxis, planes and meetings, and whether this close contact was infected or not became the focus of a case epidemiological investigation.
王广发与国家疾控中心、北京市疾控中心和北京市西城区疾控中心联系，询问这些与他密切接触者的健康状况。
Wang contacted the National CDC, the Beijing CDC and the CDC in the Xicheng District of Beijing to enquire about the health of those in close contact with him.
王广发了解到，与他搭乘同一架航班的乘客中，有一人后来被确诊感染新冠肺炎，由于尚不清楚这名乘客发病的时间和活动轨迹，因此无法确认是被王广发感染；但其他与他密切接触的人，均未被感染。
Wang learned that one of the passengers on the same flight was later confirmed to have contracted pneumonia. As the time and trajectory of the passenger's illness were not known, it could not be confirmed that Wang had contracted the infection. However, none of the other people who were in close contact with him were infected.
当时尚不了解该病毒的传播特征，王广发回京后从机场到国家卫健委参加会议时，与同行人员乘坐同一辆出租车，同行者也没有被感染。
When Wang returned to Beijing from the airport to attend the meeting, he shared a taxi with his colleagues, who were not infected.
王广发认为，这至少说明，轻症感染者在潜伏期的传播性并不强。
Wang Guang-fa believes that this at least shows that the transmission of mild cases in latency is not strong.
1月16日发病后，王广发就主动戴上了N95口罩。
On January 16, after the onset of illness, Wang Guangfa took the initiative to put on the N95 mask.
1月20日被被确诊之前，他还参加过一些会议，“左右都坐着人”，但这些人也没有被感染。
Before he was diagnosed on January 20, he attended meetings where he "sat around and around", but these people were not infected.
他认为，感染者症状的轻重，与病毒侵入量的多少有关，带口罩做好个人防护，对减少病毒侵入量，甚至阻断病毒传播都是有效的，“不能轻视戴口罩的作用”。
He believes that the severity of the infection symptoms, with the number of virus invasion, wearing a mask for personal protection, to reduce the number of virus invasion, or even to block the spread of the virus is effective, "can not despise the role of wearing masks."
王广发住院当晚，体温烧到39度，并出现了咳嗽，但一直没有呼吸困难，属于轻症。
On the night of his hospitalization, Wang Guangfa had a fever of 39 degrees and coughed, but he had no breathing difficulties.
他没有打点滴，选择口服利托那韦/洛皮那韦（克力芝），这种药物常用于治疗艾滋病病毒感染患者。
He chose to take Ritonavir / Lopinavir (Kaletra) orally, a drug commonly used to treat people with HIV infection.
1月22日，王广发的体温就降下来了，两个天后他做核算检测，结果显示依然为阳性。
On January 22, Wang Guangfa's temperature came down. Two days later, he did an accounting test and the results showed that he was still positive.
在流行病上，他仍是一名病毒携带者。
He is still a carrier of the virus in an epidemic.
又过了三四天，临床症状已经改善，王广发再做核算检测，结果为阴性。
Three or four days later, clinical symptoms have improved, Wang Guangfa again do accounting tests, the results are negative.
1月30日，住院9天后，王广发康复出院。
January 30, 9 days after hospitalization, Wang Guangfa convalescent discharged.
与王广发共同暴露在发热门诊被感染的那位主任，也属于轻症患者，服用阿比朵尔（一种抗病毒药物）治疗后，已经康复。
The director, who was exposed to infection at the fever clinic together with Wang Guangfa, is also a mild case and has recovered after taking Abidol, an antiviral drug.
目前，对这种药物治疗新冠病毒肺炎的研究已经展开。
At present, the research of this kind of medicine to treat the new crown virus pneumonia has begun.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
卫健委专家组成员王广发的流行病学样本：我应是气溶胶传播感染的。
Epidemiological sample of Wang Guangfa, a member of the health care committee: I should be an aerosol-borne infection.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "卫健委专家组成员王广发的流行病学样本：我应是气溶胶传播感染的";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; Wang Guangfa, a member of the WEEE Expert Group: I should have been & quot; & quot; & quot; with aerosol-borne infections.
var msg_desc = "作为一名专业医生，又是感染者，王广发说，希望自己的观察和思考，能为疫情防控工作提供有益的借鉴。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
