为何欧洲国家仍不建议民众戴口罩？。
Why do European countries still not recommend wearing masks?
界面地球姨。
Auntie Earth.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
视觉中国记者：王磬“ 欧洲目前正进入病例激增时期，也正面临诸多与中国疫情爆发初期相似的挑战。
Visual China: "Europe is now entering a period of rapid increase in cases and is facing many challenges similar to those in the early stages of the outbreak in China.
”随着新冠疫情在欧洲蔓延，多国纷纷出现口罩短缺。
As the new crown epidemic spreads across Europe, there are shortages of masks in many countries.
2月29日，法国政府宣布，口罩将被列入处方药。
On February 29, the French government announced that the mask would be included in prescription drugs.
药店不得把口罩卖给没有出具医生处方的顾客，以限制哄抢、将口罩留给最需要防护的医护人员。
Pharmacies should not sell masks to customers who do not have a doctor's prescription, in order to limit looting and leave them to the health care workers who need them most.
据界面新闻了解，在米兰、巴黎、伦敦、布鲁塞尔、阿姆斯特丹等大城市，药店里均出现了口罩售罄、消毒用品短缺的现象。
Interface news, Milan, Paris, London, Brussels, Amsterdam and other major cities, pharmacies have sold out of masks, sterilization supplies shortage.
但与之形成对比的是，除了意大利北部地区，欧洲其他大城市的街头仍很少看到民众配戴口罩。
But in contrast, street masks are still rarely seen on the streets of major European cities, except in northern Italy.
这些口罩都去了哪儿？医疗物资向来充足的欧洲，为何也突然陷入了“口罩荒”？欧洲各国的政府和企业又如何应对这一挑战？早已供不应求截至发稿，已经有18个欧盟成员国报告确诊了新冠病例，其中意大利是重灾区，累计2036例，法德确诊病例也均逾百。
Why has Europe, which has so far been flush with medical supplies, suddenly fallen into a "mask crisis"? Governments and companies across Europe are already struggling to meet the challenge, with 18 EU member states reporting new cases, including Italy, with 2,036 cases, and France with more than 100 confirmed cases.
欧盟已将疫情风险等级从“温和”上调至“高”。
The European Union has raised its epidemic risk level from "moderate" to "high."
此轮疫情在欧洲的爆发始于2月21日意大利北部伦巴第大区出现的社区传染，但口罩供应却是早在此之前就已出现短缺迹象。
The outbreak in Europe began on 21 February with a community epidemic in the Lombardy region of northern Italy, but the supply of masks showed early signs of shortages.
阿姆斯特丹一间药店的店员告诉界面新闻，尽管荷兰直到2月27日才确诊了本国的首例病例，但早在1月底时他们的口罩就已经供不应求，主要是亚洲群体在购买。
An Amsterdam pharmacy clerk told Interview News that although the Netherlands did not confirm its first case until February 27, there was already a shortage of face masks in late January, mainly from Asian groups.
药店当时打算增加采购，但已经很难找到货源。
Pharmacies were planning to increase their purchases, but it was difficult to find supplies.
德国药品批发协会在上周表示，药店现在很难再拿到新的货品，即使下单成功，也往往会面临延时和运输困难等问题。
The German Pharmaceutical Wholesale Association said last week it was difficult for pharmacies to get new products and even successful orders often faced delays and shipping difficulties.
在疫情中心意大利，口罩价格疯涨了数百倍。
In Italy, the epicenter of the epidemic, the price of masks has skyrocketed hundreds of times.
路透社援引一位米兰检察官的说法称，在伦巴第大区，一只普通口罩的在线价格甚至从平时的1欧分涨至10欧元，警方不得不介入调查。
Reuters quoted a Milan prosecutor as saying that police had to intervene in the Lombardy region where the online price of an ordinary mask had risen to 10 euros from the usual 1 euro.
居住在意大利、法国、英国的多位华人均向界面新闻表示，实体药店里已经很难寻觅口罩的踪影，网店里也多显示脱销，如果想要购买口罩只能通过华人群体“自寻渠道”。
Many Chinese living in Italy, France and Britain have told the Interface News that it is difficult to find face masks in physical pharmacies, and stores are showing signs of being sold out.
不只是普通消费者，连医护人员都表达了对口罩短缺的担忧。
Not only ordinary consumers but also health care workers have expressed concern about the shortage of face masks.
德国罗斯托克大学医院的医生向《德国之声》表示，目前面临的最大问题就是买不到防护口罩，大学医院的供应商表示可以提供半年的货量、但并不清楚它们有怎样的途径。
Doctors at Rostock University Hospital in Germany told Deutsche Welle that the biggest problem was the unavailability of face masks. University hospital suppliers offered to supply half a year's supply, but it was not clear how they would do so.
在极端的情况下，医护人员将很可能需要重复使用口罩。
In extreme cases, paramedics will likely need to reuse masks.
意大利护士工会向意大利媒体表示，口罩、防护服、手套等防护服严重缺失，很多地区已经用完。
The Italian nurses' union told Italian media that protective masks, suits and gloves were sorely missing and many areas had been used up.
在托斯卡纳大区，甚至还发生了医院里的口罩箱被盗走的事情。
In the Tuscany region, there were even cases of theft of hospital masks.
为何短缺至此？《纽约时报》指出，中国既是新冠疫情的中心，也是世界口罩生产的中心。
The New York Times points out that China is both the epicentre of the new crown and the epicentre of world mask production.
中国每年口罩产量占全球的约50%，武汉疫情爆发，叠加春节假期，大量工厂停摆。
About 50% of China's annual mask production, Wuhan outbreak, superimposed Spring Festival, a large number of factories stopped.
中国随后又发布了防疫物资出口的管制措施。
Subsequently, China issued measures to control the export of epidemic prevention materials.
宁波一间外贸公司的总裁表示，疫情爆发之前他们每月出口60万至70万个医用口罩，但这个数字现在是零。
Before the outbreak, they exported between 600,000 and 700,000 medical masks a month, but the figure is now zero, said Ningbo president of a foreign-trade company.
包括欧洲在内的全球市场早已无法从中国获得常规的口罩供应。
Global markets, including Europe, have long been unable to get a regular supply of masks from China.
在疫情初期，欧洲原有的口罩存量曾大量用于驰援中国。
In the early stages of the epidemic, Europe's original stock of masks was used to help China.
2月初，应中方请求，欧盟曾协调成员国向中国运送12吨的疫情防控急需物资。
In early February, at the request of China, the EU coordinated the delivery of 12 tons of urgently needed materials to China for epidemic prevention and control.
自武汉封城以来，大量居住在欧洲的华人通过零售或批发的方式，在欧洲各地收购并运送回国，尤以各地侨乡会和武汉地区高校的校友会为主要力量。
Since the closure of Wuhan, a large number of Chinese living in Europe have been purchased and sent back home by retail or wholesale, especially by the Alumni Association of Overseas Chinese Associations and Wuhan Regional Universities.
据界面新闻了解，这其中也存在个别欧洲华人商贩利用疫情信息的时间差、囤积口罩并高价转卖给本地民众的现象。
According to the Interface News, there is also the phenomenon of individual European Chinese traders using epidemic information, hoarding masks and reselling them to the local population at high prices.
一些欧洲华人微信群里流传的信息显示，“平时进价2.5（欧元的）50pz盒装口罩，现在被买到了20、50、100，甚至狮子大开口地叫卖200欧”。
According to information circulating in some European Chinese micro-mailings, "50 pz face masks, bought at a normal price of 2.5 pz (Euro), are now sold for 20, 50, 100 or even the lion barks 200 euros."
也因此有侨领出来呼吁，恳请欧洲华商不要再囤口罩，放一点给本地医护人员。
Therefore, some overseas Chinese came out to appeal, please do not hoard the mask, put some local medical personnel.
产能面临挑战多国口罩短缺，这对欧洲的制造业产能形成了严峻挑战。
A shortage of multi-country masks in the face of capacity challenges poses a serious challenge to European manufacturing capacity.
据意大利《24小时太阳报》2月中旬，该国口罩制造公司Dpi di Roma负责人Vittorio de Blasiis表示，“十天之内消耗了过去十年的口罩存量”。
Vittorio de Blasiis, head of Italy's Mask Manufacturer Dpi di Roma, said in mid-February that "the last decade's supply of masks was used up in 10 days."
他表示因需求激增，每天都接到成百万的订单。
He says he receives millions of orders every day because of the surge in demand.
不仅有来自中国的采购请求，也有国际大公司希望给员工采购的请求。
There are not only procurement requests from China, but also requests from major international companies to procure for their employees.
不过，大部分欧洲口罩制造商的生产线都设在中国，欧洲本身产能十分有限。
However, most European mask makers have production lines based in China, and Europe itself has very limited capacity.
由于中国禁止了医用口罩出口，一些制造商正在计划将生产线撤回本国或是迁到其他尚未受疫情影响的国家。
With China banning the export of medical masks, some manufacturers are planning to withdraw production lines or relocate them to other countries not yet affected by the epidemic.
据捷克门户新闻网站iRozhlas报道，捷克医疗物品公司Respilon生产的口罩用于供应欧美市场，疫情后其需求量增加了10倍有余。
Demand for masks manufactured by the Czech medical-goods company Respilon has more than 10-fold increased after the outbreak, according to the Czech portal iRozhlas.
该公司通常的生产流程是：由捷克提供口罩生产的原料、在中国加工完成。
The company's usual production process is: the Czech supply of raw materials for mask production, processing in China.
该公司总裁Roman Zima表示，他们正在考虑在捷克和以色列建立新的生产线，预计5月可投入生产，届时可日产70000只普通口罩、6000只医用口罩。
The company's president, Roman Zima, said it was considering new production lines in the Czech Republic and Israel, expected to be operational in May, when 70,000 ordinary masks and 6,000 medical masks could be produced.
但他也表示，这恐怕仍然无法满足实际需求。
But he said it still falls short of what is actually needed.
欧洲目前有三大口罩制造商，从战略层面来看这是不够的。
Europe currently has three major mask manufacturers, which is not enough at the strategic level.
政府紧急调配欧洲多国政府也出台了紧急调配措施。
The government has also put in place emergency deployment measures for many European governments.
调配重点是：确保医护人员拥有足够的口罩。
The focus of the deployment is to ensure that medical staff have adequate masks.
欧盟成员国之中，法国最早对口罩短缺做出反应。
France was the first EU member to respond to the shortage of face masks.
法国政府于上周宣布，已经紧急下单采购2亿口罩，但尚不确定何时能到货。
The French government announced last week that it had ordered 200 million masks urgently, but was unsure when they would arrive.
政府已经将库存的1500万口罩发放至医疗前线，主要用来支持家庭医生和在医院里工作的医护人员。
The government has distributed a stockpile of 15 million masks on the front line, mainly to support family doctors and hospital staff.
2月29日，法国又决定将口罩纳入处方药，以防止民众抢购。
On February 29, France decided to add masks to prescription drugs to prevent panic buying.
意大利的中央和地方政府也在上周开展了一轮口罩采购。
Italy's central and local governments also launched a round of mask purchases last week.
据意大利《晚邮报》，伦巴第大区政府已经紧急采购了30万个ffp3口罩、20万个医用口罩。
According to the Italian Evening Post, the Lombardy regional government has purchased 300,000 ffp3 masks and 200,000 medical masks on an emergency basis.
意大利“新冠危机委员会”委员Angelo Borrelli表示，中央政府已经与意大利工业家联合会Confindustria合作，设立了专门的口罩采购渠道，并将在口罩到达之后根据各大区的疫情状况进行分配。
Angelo Borrelli, a member of Italy's "New Crown Crisis Committee," said the central government, in cooperation with the Confederation of Italian Industrialists, has set up a special procurement channel for masks, which will be distributed according to the epidemic situation in each region once they arrive.
意大利政府尚未出台针对口罩的限购措施，但加大了对恶意抬价等倒卖行为的打击。
The Italian government has yet to introduce a cap on the purchase of face masks, but has stepped up its crackdown on deals such as price hikes.
在都灵，警方不久前破获一起不合规口罩的倒卖事件，一盒售价高达5000欧元。
In Turin, police recently uncovered the sale of an irregular mask for up to? 5, 000 a case.
英国政府也表示，将释放部分存量口罩，以缓解市场需求压力。
The British government also said it would release some of the masks to ease market demand.
德国政府此前也已经向药店发出通告，优先保障医护人员的口罩需求。
The German government has also issued a circular to pharmacies to prioritize the need for masks for health-care workers.
欧盟委员会在3月2日的新闻发布会上表示，欧盟已经协调18个受疫情影响的成员国共同进行物资采购，其中包括口罩。
At a press conference on March 2, the European Commission said it had coordinated the procurement of supplies, including masks, by 18 affected member states.
它们期待在一周之内收到相关物资，但尚未透露采购规模。
They expect to receive the related materiel within a week, but have yet to disclose the scale of the procurement.
欧洲疾控中心（ECDC）在此前接受界面新闻采访时曾表示，欧盟国家或将激活大流行病防范计划，要保证医疗系统有足够的资源和人力去隔离和医治不断增长的新冠病人。
In an earlier interview with Interface News, the European Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (ECDC) said EU countries might activate their pandemic preparedness plans to ensure the health system has sufficient resources and manpower to isolate and treat the growing number of new cases.
“民众无需戴口罩”值得注意的是，关于普通民众是否需要佩戴口罩，意大利、法国、德国、英国等政府发布的官方防疫手册给出的建议基本类似：不需要。
"People don't have to wear masks," it is worth noting that official vaccination manuals issued by governments in Italy, France, Germany and the United Kingdom give much the same advice: No.
截至发稿，至少已有30个欧洲国家（不含俄罗斯）报告了确诊病例，其中意大利2036人、法国191人、德国157人、英国40人。
By the time of writing, at least 30 European countries (excluding Russia) had reported confirmed cases, including 2,036 in Italy, 191 in France, 157 in Germany and 40 in the United Kingdom.
总的来说，这些欧洲国家的防疫手册都遵循了世卫组织的建议，强调了如下几点：勤洗手、咳嗽或打喷嚏时用手臂捂住、使用一次性纸巾、避免握手和不必要的身体接触等。
In general, the vaccination manuals of these European countries follow WHO recommendations and emphasize the following points: frequent hand washing, placing a hand over one's arm when coughing or sneezing, using disposable tissues, avoiding shaking hands and unnecessary physical contact.
英国NHS表示，口罩在医院等场所非常重要，但是几乎没有证据显示，用口罩遮住口鼻可以降低健康人感染新冠病毒的概率。
The NHS says masks are important in places such as hospitals, but there is little evidence that covering the mouth and nose with a mask reduces the chance of a healthy person contracting the new crown virus.
口罩的作用主要是防止病人将疾病传播给别人，因此那些已经有症状的人才需要佩戴口罩。
Masks are designed to prevent patients from spreading the disease to others, so people who already have symptoms need to wear masks.
意大利卫生部援引世卫组织的说法，认为只有如下几类人才需要戴口罩：那些可能与病人有过接触的人、出现了咳嗽打喷嚏等症状的人、正在照顾疑似/确诊病人的人，以及医院的医护工作者。
The Italian Ministry of Health quoted WHO as saying that masks were only needed for certain categories of persons: those who might have come into contact with patients, those who developed symptoms such as coughing and sneezing, those taking care of suspected / confirmed patients, and hospital health workers.
此外，在意大利北部的红色疫区——罗马涅、伦巴第、威尼托三个大区——民众应当佩戴口罩。
Moreover, in northern Italy's red-infected regions - Romagna, Lombardy, and Veneto - people should wear masks.
德国卫生部指出，普通人群佩戴口罩“没有意义”，应该将防疫重点放在个人卫生上。
The German Health Ministry said the general population wearing masks "meaningless", should focus on personal hygiene immunization.
只有通过正确的方式佩戴口罩（例如有胡子的男性需要先刮光胡子等）、并保持一定频度的更换，否则接触被污染的口罩反而会带来感染风险。
Wear a mask correctly (men with a beard, for example, need to shave their moustaches first) and change them frequently. Otherwise, contact with contaminated masks carries a risk of infection.
戴口罩还可能让人产生一种有安全感的错觉，从而忽略了其他卫生措施，如勤洗手。
Wearing masks may also create the illusion of security and neglect other hygiene measures, such as frequent hand washing.
卫生部建议，民众如果出现了感冒的相关症状，应与家庭医生沟通，再决定是否佩戴、如何佩戴、以及佩戴哪一种型号的口罩。
The ministry recommends that people who develop symptoms associated with colds communicate with family doctors before deciding whether to wear them, how to wear them, and which type of mask to wear.
法国卫生部建议，如果你曾在过去两周到过疫区，如中国、新加坡、韩国、伊朗、意大利北部三大区，可以佩戴口罩。
The French health ministry suggests wearing masks if you have been to affected areas in the past two weeks, such as China, Singapore, South Korea, Iran and northern Italy.
但也强调，带有呼吸阀的口罩如ffp2应该留给医护人员。
But it was also stressed that respirators with respirators, such as ffp2, should be reserved for medical staff.
不过，据界面新闻了解，欧洲华人群体内部对这些建议有些质疑之声。
However, according to the Interface News, there is some scepticism about these proposals within the Chinese community in Europe.
中国正在经历“硬核”防疫，其中，口罩是民众防疫的基础物资，疫情严重的地方甚至出现了不戴口罩不能上街的强制措施。
China is experiencing a "hard core" epidemic prevention, in which masks are the basic materials for people to prevent epidemic diseases, even in places where there are no masks can be put on the streets.
在这样的对比之下，有华人担心，欧盟有5亿人口，这也许是欧洲政府在口罩不足的情况下，为防止民众抢购而做出的策略性表态，并非真的因为口罩真的无效。
By contrast, some Chinese fear that the 500 million people in the European Union may be a tactical gesture by European governments to prevent people from snapping up masks, not because they are actually ineffective.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
为何欧洲国家仍不建议民众戴口罩？。
Why do European countries still not recommend wearing masks?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "为何欧洲国家仍不建议民众戴口罩？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Why do European countries still not recommend wearing masks?;
var msg_desc = "欧洲目前正进入病例激增时期，也正面临诸多与中国疫情爆发初期相似的挑战。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Europe is now entering a surge in cases and facing many challenges similar to those faced in the early days of the outbreak.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
