海外70余国累计确诊过万，新冠肺炎进入“全球化”阶段。
Overseas more than 70 countries have confirmed the cumulative total, the New Crown Pneumonia entered the "globalization" stage.
肖恩。
Sean.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：联合国新闻记者：肖恩“ 世卫组织称，世界正处于一个未知领域，但新冠肺炎在传播上不像流感，只要方法得当，完全有可能被遏制。
Source: UN Correspondent: Sean "The world is in an uncharted territory, but pneumonia is not spreading like the flu, and could well be contained if the method is right," the WHO said.
”新冠肺炎的蔓延开始呈现“全球化”趋势，覆盖六大洲超70国，中国以外累计确诊病例已过万人。
The spread of pneumonia is starting to "globalize," covering more than 70 countries on six continents, with more than 10,000 confirmed cases outside China.
从疫情扩散路径上看，全球范围内都呈现出“从点到面”的特点，即从一个中心点出发向外辐射，由此再出现第二，甚至第三代人传人病例。
From the point of view of the spread of the epidemic, the whole world is characterized by a "point-to-surface" radiating from a central point, resulting in the emergence of second or even third-generation human-to-human transmission.
与此同时，疫情“倒灌”的现象也开始出现。
At the same time, the phenomenon of "reverse irrigation" has begun to appear.
世界卫生组织（WHO）称，截至北京时间3月2日17点，24小时内中国境外新增病例数几乎是中国境内的9倍，已经蔓延至除南极洲外所有大洲。
According to the World Health Organization (WHO), the number of new cases outside China within 24 hours was nearly nine times that in China as at 17: 00 March Beijing time, and had spread to all continents except Antarctica.
意大利和伊朗已成为境外两个疫情辐射中心，多国疫情都源于意大利和伊朗的输出病例，因而也是现阶段国际疫情防控的重点之一。
Italy and Iran have become two radiation centers outside the country. The multi-country epidemic originated from export cases from Italy and Iran and is therefore one of the priorities of international epidemic prevention and control.
据中新社、新浪和BNO新闻等机构的实时统计，截至发稿，全球除中国（包括港澳台地区）外，已有超过70个国家累计确诊10000余病例，超过170人死亡。
According to real-time statistics from China News Agency, Sina and BNO News, more than 10,000 cases and 170 deaths had been confirmed in more than 70 countries, including China (including Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan).
意大利意大利是目前全球确诊病例第三多的国家，仅次于中国和韩国。
Italy has the third highest number of confirmed cases in the world after China and South Korea.
据意大利民防部门2日通报，该国累计确诊新冠肺炎病例2036例，死亡52例。
According to the Italian Civil Protection Department reported on the 2nd, the country accumulated 2036 confirmed cases of new crown pneumonia, 52 deaths.
意大利的疫情也在向整个欧洲，乃至北非、亚洲和大西洋另一端的拉丁美洲。
The epidemic in Italy is also spreading throughout Europe, as well as across North Africa, Asia and Latin America across the Atlantic.
意大利疫情最严重的伦巴第大区首府米兰和威尼托大区首府威尼斯都是意大利著名旅游城市。
The capital of Italy's worst affected regions, Milan and Veneto, are well-known tourist cities in Italy.
意大利疫情爆发后，欧洲整体形势开始迅速恶化。
After the outbreak of the outbreak in Italy, the overall situation in Europe began to deteriorate rapidly.
据不完全统计，目前有近30个欧洲国家出现新冠肺炎疫情，累计确诊病例逾2700例。
According to incomplete statistics, there are nearly 30 European countries with new cases of pneumonia, with a cumulative total of over 2,700 confirmed cases.
进入3月后，捷克、爱尔兰、卢森堡、葡萄牙、摩洛哥、冰岛、安道尔等国纷纷确诊首例新冠肺炎病例，且这些病例均有意大利旅行史。
In March, the Czech Republic, Ireland, Luxembourg, Portugal, Morocco, Iceland, Andorra and other countries confirmed the first cases of new crown pneumonia, all with a history of Italian travel.
欧盟委员会主席冯德莱恩2日在新闻发布会上表示，欧洲疾病预防控制中心（ECDC）已将新型冠状病毒风险级别由“中等”提升至“高”。
The European Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (ECDC) has raised the risk level of the new coronavirus from "medium" to "high," European Commission President von der Lean said at a news conference.
根据这一对疫情的最新评估，欧委会也决定成立专门的新型冠状病毒应对小组，帮助欧盟各成员国，及受疫情影响的各相关领域采取协调一致的应对措施。
Based on this latest assessment of the outbreak, the Commission also decided to set up a special coronavirus response team to help EU member states, as well as the affected areas of the coordinated response.
欧盟危机管理委员莱纳契奇（Janez Lenarčič）表示，尽管不应恐慌，但情况确实在向更糟的方向发展。
European Union Crisis Management Commissioner Janez Lenarčič said that while there should be no panic, things are moving in a much worse direction.
意大利前总理、欧盟经济专员真蒂洛尼（Paolo Gentiloni）则指出，交通、旅游和汽车制造是受影响最大的领域。
Paolo Gentiloni, Italy's former prime minister and EU economic commissioner, has pointed out that transport, tourism and car manufacturing are the areas most affected.
不过真蒂洛尼认为，疫情将迫使欧洲各国提高支出，经济影响会呈“V”字形走向，即迅速恶化，又迅速恢复。
But Mr Chendiloni believes the epidemic will force higher spending across Europe and that the economic impact will be "V" in the shape of a rapid deterioration and recovery.
此外，摩洛哥和塞内加尔均在2日确诊首例病例，使非洲出现新冠肺炎疫情的国家增加至六个，其中除了塞内加尔的病例是从法国输入外，突尼斯、阿尔及利亚、尼日利亚和摩洛哥的首例病例都是源自意大利。
In addition, Morocco and Senegal confirmed their first cases on the second day, bringing to six the number of African countries with new cases of pneumonia, with the exception of Senegal, where the first cases were from Italy, and Algeria, Nigeria and Morocco.
埃及确诊的两例病也也都是外籍人士，但不清楚是具体哪个国家。
The two cases diagnosed in Egypt are also foreigners, but it is not clear which country.
拉丁美洲也因为意大利病例输入而“沦陷”。
Latin America has also been "sunk" by the importation of Italian cases.
一名曾前往意大利的巴西男子在2月25日确诊感染新冠肺炎，成为拉丁美洲首例确诊病例，随后是墨西哥、多米尼加和厄瓜多尔。
A Brazilian man who had travelled to Italy was diagnosed with pneumonia on 25 February, making it the first confirmed case in Latin America, followed by Mexico, Dominica and Ecuador.
其中前两国病例是意大利输入，厄瓜多尔首例病例则来自西班牙。
The first two cases were imported from Italy and the first case from Ecuador came from Spain.
值得一提的是，中国浙江丽水市青田县2日报告的7例新增确诊病例也都是意大利输入病例。
It is worth mentioning that the 7 newly confirmed cases reported in Qingtian County, Zhejiang Province, China, are also imported from Italy.
约旦2日确诊的首例病例也有意大利旅行史。
Jordan 2 confirmed the first case of Italian travel history.
意大利国立卫生研究院院长布鲁塞弗罗（Silvio Brusaferro）1日在接受当地《共和国报》（la Repubblica）采访时表示，本周将是意大利防疫工作的关键一周，如果接下来七天感染人数有所减少，就意味着目前封城、取消集会等措施有效。
Silvio Brusaferro, director of the Italian National Institutes of Health, said in an interview with the local newspaper La Repubblica on Monday that the week would be a critical week for Italy's epidemic and that if the number of infections falls over the next seven days, it could mean that measures such as closures and cancellations are working.
伊朗作为中东的“风暴眼”，伊朗也是该地区新冠肺炎疫情“多米诺”式发展的起点。
As the "eye of the storm" in the Middle East, Iran is also the starting point for a "domino" outbreak of pneumonia in the region.
沙特阿拉伯在2日确诊首例新冠肺炎病例，患者系从伊朗途径巴林返回沙特。
Saudi Arabia confirmed its first case of new crown pneumonia on Tuesday, returning to Saudi Arabia from Iran via Bahrain.
至此，波斯湾国家全部“失守”，且绝大多数病例都有伊朗旅行史。
So far, the Persian Gulf states have all lost their "defenses," and the vast majority of cases have a history of Iranian travel.
此外，阿富汗、阿曼、黎巴嫩、亚美尼亚等南亚、中东国家的疫情也都源于伊朗输入病例。
In addition, Afghanistan, Oman, Lebanon, Armenia and other countries in South Asia, the Middle East also originated from the importation of cases from Iran.
中国的北京和宁夏也都出现伊朗输入病例。
There have also been cases of Iranian imports in Beijing and Ningxia.
疫情爆发迅猛，加之“抗疫”能力遭质疑，使得伊朗成为当前最受关注的疫情中心之一。
Rapid outbreaks, coupled with doubts about its ability to fight the disease, have made Iran one of the most visible centers of the epidemic.
截至3月2日中午，伊朗共确诊新冠肺炎病例1501例，单日新增523例，累计死亡66例。
By noon on March 2, Iran had confirmed 1,501 new cases of pneumonia, 523 new cases a day and 66 cumulative deaths.
德国外长马斯（Heiko Maas）透露，法德英三国都向伊朗运送了一批防疫物资，其中包括核酸检测设备和防护服等，同时追加500万欧元经济援助。
German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas revealed that France, Germany, and the United Kingdom had delivered a batch of vaccines, including nucleic acid testing equipment and protective clothing, to Iran, with an additional €5 million in economic aid.
在阿联酋政府的帮助下，WHO也向伊朗提供了一批足够1.5万名医务人员使用的防疫物资，另外还有足以为数千人做检测的试剂盒。
With the UAE government's help, the World Health Organization has also provided Iran with a sufficient supply of vaccines for 15,000 medical personnel, as well as kits for testing thousands of people.
WHO代表已经于2日抵达德黑兰，以评估目前伊朗新冠肺炎疫情状况。
WHO representatives have arrived in Tehran on February 2 to assess the current status of the outbreak of pneumonia in Iran.
“钻石公主”号“钻石公主”号邮轮一度是中国境外最大疫情爆发地，而船上近1000名乘客下船回国后，也把新冠病毒带到了各个国家。
The Princess Diamond once was the biggest outbreak outside China, and nearly 1,000 passengers got off the ship and brought the virus to various countries.
以色列确诊的首例病例就是“钻石公主”号上的乘客。
The first confirmed case in Israel was that of a passenger aboard the Princess Diamond.
澳大利亚、美国和英国均有船上乘客回国后被确诊，其中包括澳大利亚首例死亡病例。
Passengers were diagnosed in Australia, the United States and the United Kingdom on their return home, including the first death in Australia.
WHO总干事谭德塞1日在日内瓦举行的发布会上表示，认识和理解流行病是战胜它的第一步，但新冠肺炎是一个从未进入过的未知领域。
Understanding and understanding the epidemic is the first step to overcoming it, but new crown pneumonia is an unknown territory that has never been encountered, WHO director General Theresa Tanner said at a press conference in Geneva on Monday.
此前从未出现过一种能在社区传播，但也可以通过正确措施加以遏制的呼吸道病源体。
There has never been a single respiratory pathogen that can be transmitted in the community but can be contained with the right measures.
但新冠肺炎在传播上不像流感，只要方法得当，完全有可能被遏制。
But Crowne Pneumonia, unlike the flu, is likely to be contained if it is properly administered.
谭德塞指出，新冠肺炎在全球范围内的扩散不是单向的，因此需要所有国家迅速行动起来，根据自身情况采取适当的防疫措施。
The global spread of pneumonia is not a one-way street and requires all countries to act quickly and take appropriate preventive measures, according to their own circumstances, he said.
在目前出现确诊病例的国家中，超过半数确诊人数不足十人，还有约八个国家连续两周没有新增病例，已经有能力控制疫情。
More than half of the countries with confirmed cases now have fewer than 10 confirmed cases, and about eight countries with no new cases for two weeks have the capacity to contain the epidemic.
而中国的经历证明，就算是有大量确诊病例的国家，也能够遏制疫情发展。
And China's experience shows that even countries with a large number of confirmed cases can contain the epidemic.
谭德塞还提到，韩国、意大利、伊朗和日本的疫情爆发最值得关注。
The outbreaks in South Korea, Italy, Iran and Japan are of the greatest concern, he said.
扩散面积越来越大的新冠肺炎疫情也给全球经济带来严峻挑战。
The increasingly widespread outbreak of pneumonia in the New Crown also poses a serious challenge to the global economy.
经合组织（OECD）在2日发布的最新《全球经济展望报告》中，将2020年全球经济增速预期从疫情爆发前的2.9%下调至2.4%。
In its latest Global Economic Outlook report released yesterday, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development lowered its forecast for global economic growth from 2.9 per cent before the outbreak to 2.4 per cent in 2020.
OECD警告称，新冠肺炎疫情正将全球经济拖入自全球金融危机以来最严重的增长放缓，如果继续恶化，日本和欧元区都有陷入经济衰退的风险。
The OECD warns that the outbreak of new crown pneumonia is plunging the global economy into the worst growth slowdown since the global financial crisis, with both Japan and the euro zone at risk of falling into recession if they continue to worsen.
世界银行和国际货币基金组织都表示已经准备好对协助成员国，尤其是贫困国家抗击疫情的准备，包括提供紧急拨款。
Both the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund have indicated their readiness to assist member countries, especially poor countries, in the fight against the epidemic, including by providing emergency funding.
七国集团（G7）的财政部长和央行行长将在3日举行电话会议，商讨应对新冠肺炎疫情扩大带来的经济冲击的对策。
Finance ministers and central bankers from the Group of Seven leading nations will hold a conference call on Wednesday to discuss measures to deal with the economic impact of the new outbreak of pneumonia.
法国财长勒梅尔（Bruno Le Maire）表示，G7将采取协调一致的行动”限制疫情对经济增长的冲击。
Bruno Le Maire, French finance minister, said the G7 would take concerted action "to limit the impact of the outbreak on economic growth."
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
海外70余国累计确诊过万，新冠肺炎进入“全球化”阶段。
Overseas more than 70 countries have confirmed the cumulative total, the New Crown Pneumonia entered the "globalization" stage.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "海外70余国累计确诊过万，新冠肺炎进入“全球化”阶段";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "世卫组织称，世界正处于一个未知领域，但新冠肺炎在传播上不像流感，只要方法得当，完全有可能被遏制。
var msg _ desc = & quot; WHO says the world is in an unknown territory, but that pneumonia is not as contagious as flu and may well be contained if it is properly managed.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
