东京奥运会“被允许推迟至年底举行”意味着什么？。
What does it mean for the Tokyo Olympics to be "allowed to be postponed until the end of the year"?
罗盈盈。
Lo Ying Ying.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国记者：罗盈盈“ 日本政府和东京奥组委依然致力于让奥运会如期举行。
Source: China Visual Correspondent: Luo Ying-ying "The Japanese government and the Tokyo Organizing Committee remain committed to keeping the Games on schedule.
”受全球疫情影响，东京奥运会能否如期举办的悬念仍在持续。
The suspense over whether the Tokyo Olympics will be held as scheduled continues to hang over the global epidemic.
3月3日，据英国《每日邮报》报道，日本奥运大臣桥本圣子在回答一名议员关于疫情是否会导致东京奥运会取消时，她表示，日本与国际奥委会之间的协议允许东京奥运会在2020年底进行。
Japan's Olympic minister, Naoko Hashimoto, said on March 3 that the agreement between Japan and the IOC would allow the Games to take place by the end of 2020, in response to a question from a lawmaker about whether the outbreak would lead to the cancellation of the Games, the Daily Mail reported.
“协议要求奥运会在2020年内举行，这可以解释为允许推迟到年底，”桥本圣子同时强调，日本政府和东京奥组委依然致力于让奥运会如期举行。
"The agreement calls for the Olympics to be held in 2020, which could be interpreted as allowing the Games to be postponed until the end of the year," Mr Hashimoto said, stressing that the Japanese government and Tokyo Organizing Committee remained committed to keeping the games on schedule.
不过，根据奥运主办协议，推迟或取消奥运会的权利仍归国际奥委会所有。
However, according to the agreement to host the Games, the right to postpone or cancel the Games remains with the IOC.
按照原计划，东京奥运会和残奥会，将分别于2020年7月24日至8月9日和2020年8月25日至9月6日举行。
As originally planned, the Tokyo Olympic and Paralympic Games will be held from 24 July to 9 August 2020 and from 25 August to 6 September 2020, respectively.
目前距离原定揭幕日期，还有将近5个月的时间。
Nearly five months remain before the scheduled unveiling date.
此外，桥本圣子透露，如果取消奥运会将面临非常高昂的代价，“目前，东京奥运会的最新预算是1.35万亿日元（约合人民币873亿元），其中日本政府提供1200亿日元用于建造奥运场馆，300亿日元用于残奥会。
Moreover, Naoko Hashimoto revealed that if the Games were to be cancelled, "the latest budget for the Tokyo Games is Y1.35 trillion (87.3 billion yuan), with the Japanese government providing Y120bn for the construction of Olympic venues and Y30bn for the Paralympics."
”另据《时代周刊》估算，日本已经为东京奥运会耗资约250亿美元，是最初成本预算的四倍之多。
The Times also estimates that Japan has spent about $25bn on the Tokyo Olympics, four times the original cost estimate.
目前，在全球新冠肺炎疫情扩散的背景下，即使日本疫情得以平息，但海外感染持续扩大的话，奥运会仍会受到影响。
Now, with the global outbreak of pneumonia spreading, the Olympics will be affected even if the epidemic subsides but overseas infections continue to spread.
3月2日，据日本共同社引援奥运相关人士推测称，“可能很大程度上取决于世界卫生组织给出怎样的看法。
On March 2, Japanese news agency Kyodo quoted Olympic-related people as speculating that "much may depend on what the World Health Organization thinks."
”早前，国际奥委会高级官员迪克·庞德（Dick Pound）接受美联社采访时提到，由于奥运会涉及太多利益相关方，延期或易地举行奥运会的可行性有待商榷。
Earlier, Dick Pound, a senior IOC official, mentioned in an interview with The Associated Press that the feasibility of postponing or changing the venue was open to question as the Games involved too many stakeholders.
“就奥运会的规模而言，你不能推迟，那么大规模的赛事移动，同时每个国家有不同的联赛安排，各类项目有自己的竞赛日程，还有电视转播难以协调，”迪克·庞德认为，奥运延期并非一个简单的时间问题。
"In terms of the size of the Olympics, you can't put it off, the big games are moving, there are different league arrangements in each country, there is a competition schedule for all kinds of events and there is a lot of television broadcasting," said Dick Pound, adding that the delay was not a simple matter of time.
尤其在下半年，职业体育赛事的日程表都被安排得满满当当，包括NBA、NFL等北美职业联赛、欧洲足球及篮球赛事等扎堆举办。
In the second half of the year, professional sporting events are packed up with events ranging from NBA to NFL to European football and basketball.
在这样的情况下，运动员和各个国家队或将难以协调奥运会和联赛赛程。
Under these circumstances, it may be difficult for athletes and national teams to coordinate the Olympic and league schedules.
除此之外，推迟举办奥运会对转播商而言同样是一大考验。
In addition, the delay in hosting the Olympic Games will also be a major test for broadcasters.
自1988年以来，NBC一直持有夏季奥运会的美国转播权，并且已经支付高达14.5亿美元的东京奥运转播费用。
NBC has held U.S. rights to broadcast the Summer Games since 1988 and has paid up to $1.45 billion for the Tokyo Olympics.
据悉，由于下半年有众多职业赛事转播计划，而且奥运期间的广告时段销售事宜已经逐步确定，广播公司难以接受奥运改期的安排。
Broadcasters are unlikely to accept the rescheduling because of plans to broadcast many professional events in the second half of the year and because advertising slots have been fixed during the Games.
这意味着，如果东京奥运会最终推迟至年底举行，国际奥委会和东京奥组委将要开展复杂的协调工作。
That means the IOC and the Tokyo Organizing Committee will have to do complex co-ordination if the Tokyo Olympics are eventually postponed to the end of the year.
另外，3月3日《每日邮报》报道，据英国自行车运动协会主席斯蒂芬·帕克（Stephen Park）透露，国际奥委会、世界卫生组织和各大体育协会高层曾讨论过，在禁止观众入场的情况下举办东京奥运会的方案。
Separately, according to Stephen Park, chairman of the British Cycling Association, the IOC, the World Health Organization and top sports associations have discussed a plan to hold the Tokyo Olympics without spectators, the Daily Mail reported on March 3.
如果全球新冠病毒肺炎疫情持续蔓延，空场比赛或许是东京奥运会的应急选项之一。
If the global outbreak of the new crown pneumonia continues to spread, an empty stadium may be one of the emergency options for the Tokyo Olympics.
根据日本厚生劳动省和各地方政府统计的数据，截至当地时间3月3日18时，日本国内累计确诊新冠肺炎病例985例，其中，重症病例为57例，死亡12例。
According to statistics from the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare and local governments, as of 1800 hours local time on March 3, 985 new cases of pneumonia had been confirmed in Japan, of which 57 were serious cases and 12 were fatal.
这些感染者中，包括钻石公主号邮轮确诊的706例。
Among those infected were 706 confirmed cases of the Princess Diamond cruise.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
东京奥运会“被允许推迟至年底举行”意味着什么？。
What does it mean for the Tokyo Olympics to be "allowed to be postponed until the end of the year"?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "东京奥运会“被允许推迟至年底举行”意味着什么？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "日本政府和东京奥组委依然致力于让奥运会如期举行。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; The Japanese government and TOKYO remain committed to keeping the Olympics on schedule.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
