80名中国人在俄隔离始末：被忽视的同意书与总体规范的执法_澎湃关注_澎湃新闻-The Paper。
80 Chinese Isolated in Russia: Neglected Consent and Overall Normative Enforcement _ A Pound of Concern _ The Paper.
报料。
News feed.
注册。
Registration.
登录。
Login.
下载APP。
Download APP.
精选。
Selected.
抗疫。
Anti-epidemic.
抗疫防控新型冠状病毒肺炎。
Anti-epidemic control of new coronavirus pneumonia.
。
.
视频。
Video.
上直播。
Live broadcast.
拉近你与现场距离。
Bring you closer to the scene.
七环视频。
Seven-ring video.
为了更美好的生活。
For a better life.
温度计。
Thermometers.
深度记录社会冷暖。
Depth of record society warm and cold.
一级视场。
Level 1 field of view.
及时现场，洞察财经事件。
On-site, insight into financial issues.
World湃。
World surging.
看见新闻全球化。
See the globalization of information.
湃客科技。
Pai guest technology.
聚焦前沿，展现新兴企业。
Focus on the frontier and showcase emerging businesses.
纪录湃。
The record runs high.
纪录澎湃中国。
China is on record.
围观。
Look around.
以影像介入社会生活。
Imaging into social life.
@所有人。
@ All.
所有人在看。
Everyone's watching.
大都会。
Metropolis.
看上海 最都会。
It's the best city in Shanghai.
追光灯。
Searchlight.
让你看到文艺生活。
Let you see the literary life.
运动装。
Sportswear.
直观运动，可以装不要伪装。
Intuitive movement, can be installed without camouflage.
健寻记。
Health care.
追寻活到一百岁的秘诀。
The secret to living to be a hundred years old.
AI播报。
AI announces.
互联网新闻+：AI播报。
Internet news +: AI broadcasts.
眼界。
Eye-catching.
每日一条视频，与新闻同步。
One video per day, synced with the news.
时事。
Current affairs.
中国政库洞悉中国动向的时政解读。
China's treasurer has insight into the current state of affairs in China.
中南海权威细致的领导人报道。
Zhongnanhai authority meticulous leader report.
舆论场倾听复杂世界的弦外之音。
Opinion circles listen to the implications of the complex world.
打虎记中国反腐报道第一平台。
Tiger Kit China Anti-Corruption Report First Platform.
人事风向快速专业的人事信息集合地。
Personnel wind speed and professional collection of personnel information.
法治中国司改风向，法治观察。
Rule of Law China Division wind direction, rule of law observation.
一号专案司法个案，法治调查。
Ad hoc Judicial Case No. 1, Rule of Law Investigations.
港台来信感觉不一样的港台报道。
RTHK's letter feels different from RTHK's report.
长三角政商解读区域政情与财富故事。
The Yangtze River Delta political and economic interpretation of regional political and wealth story.
直击现场第一现场，文图视频直播。
Click on the scene of the first scene, text video live.
公益湃记录公益发展，共建责任生态。
Public welfare record of public welfare development, jointly build ecological responsibility.
。
.
暖闻人间真善美，社会正能量。
Hear the world is good and beautiful, society is positive energy.
。
.
澎湃质量报告打假除劣，破套防坑——专注消费者权益保护。
Pai Pai quality report to fight fraud and shoddy, broken pit - focus on consumer rights and interests protection.
绿政公署环境与公共健康调查。
Environmental and Public Health Survey of the Green Administration.
澎湃国际All News In。
All News In, Peng Pai.
外交学人New World Order。
Diplomat New World Order.
澎湃防务Cyclopedia for military。
Cyclopedia for military defence.
唐人街海外利益，华人故事。
Overseas Interests in Chinatown, Chinese Stories.
澎湃人物提供最有态度的人物报道。
The roaring characters provide the most critical coverage of the characters.
浦江头条上海每天最重要的事件。
The most important events of the day in Shanghai.
教育家最先进的教育理念在此碰撞。
Educators' most advanced educational ideas collide here.
全景现场360度感识全景现场。
Panoramic scene 360-degree panorama scene.
美数课数字是骨骼，设计是灵魂。
Numbers are bones; design is the soul.
快看快看，图片会说话。
Look quick. Pictures talk.
财经。
Finance.
10%公司派发上市公司变革红利。
10 per cent distribute change dividends to listed companies.
能见度能源行业最具穿透力的思想。
Visibility The most penetrating thinking in the energy industry.
地产界地产界所有你想知道的事儿。
Real estate Everything you want to know.
财经上下游跨界找寻市场常识。
Cross-boundary market common sense.
金改实验室金融创新灵感集散地。
Financial innovation center of Jinchang Lab.
牛市点线面简单专业时尚的财富平台。
Bull market simple professional fashion wealth platform.
科技湃让我们走近科学。
Technology has brought us closer to science.
澎湃商学院品牌课外书，生活经济学。
Peng Pai Business School Brand Extracurricular Books, Life Economics.
自贸区连线自贸区第一信息和服务平台。
Free Trade Area line free trade area first information and service platform.
进博会在线走进中国国际进口博览会。
Into the Fair online into China International Import Expo.
澎湃号。
'cried the roar.
湃客。
The roar.
政务。
Government affairs.
媒体。
The media.
思想。
Ideas.
社论澎湃的立场。
The editorial was strong.
澎湃评论在这里知道更多。
Pai Pai comments know more here.
思想湃明亮的对话，澎湃的思想。
Thoughts of bright dialogue, surging thoughts.
上海书评全球百位华文写作名家撰稿。
The Shanghai Book Review is written by 100 leading Chinese writers.
思想市场有竞争的思想讲底蕴的政治。
The thought market has the competitive thought to speak the underlying politics.
私家历史发现历史之美。
Private history finds the beauty of history.
翻书党微时代的首选书单。
Turn over the book party microage first choice book list.
艺术评论独立态度解析中外艺术热点。
Artistic Comment Independent Attitude Analyzes the Hot Spots of Chinese and Foreign Art.
古代艺术巡礼人类的艺术遗产。
Ancient Art Parades the artistic heritage of mankind.
文化课关注人文景观投身人类文明。
Cultural courses focus on humanistic landscape into human civilization.
逝者记录逝者为世界留下的财富。
The dead record the wealth left to the world by the dead.
澎湃研究所为中国城市问题提供澎湃方案。
The Peng Pai Institute offers a robust programme on urban issues in China.
。
.
市政厅中国城市问题专家。
City Hall of China experts on urban issues.
城市漫步人塑造地方，地方也塑造人。
Urban strollers shape places, and places shape people.
智库报告展示全球最具价值的智库研究成果。
The think tank report showcases the world's most valuable think tank research.
专栏名家专家，上天入地。
An expert columnist.
异次元打破次元壁。
Heterogeneous element breaks the secondary wall.
生活。
Life.
有戏陪你过一种审美的生活。
Have a play to accompany you to live an aesthetic life.
文艺范一线文艺生活。
Literary and artistic life.
身体探索身体的奥秘。
The body explores the secrets of the body.
私·奔跑步是一种态度。
Personal running is an attitude.
运动家看体育如何改变世界。
Athletes see how sport can change the world.
私家地理旅途的旨趣、技艺以及乡愁。
The Purport, Skill, and Nostalgia of the Private Geographic Journey.
非常品用态度引领时尚。
A very good attitude leads to fashion.
楼市不一样的楼市观察。
Different property market observation.
生活方式更好生活，我们有一些意见。
We have some suggestions for a better way of life.
澎湃联播半个段子兽半个评论猿。
Half a section of the beast commented on apes.
视界视界观，观世界。
Look at the world, look at the world.
亲子学堂理解孩子，认知自己。
Parents and children learn to understand their children, know themselves.
赢家直击中国体育产业生存现状。
Winners strike at the survival of China's sports industry.
汽车圈专注汽车产经报道。
Auto industry focus on the auto industry report.
问吧。
'he asked.
订阅。
Subscriptions.
把你最喜欢的栏目添加到这里来哦。
Add your favorite column here.
马上登录。
Sign in now.
setMsgMark(); //login异步之后调用位置修改。
Call location modification after setMsgMark; / / login asynchronous.
// 顶部广告自适应。
/ / Top Advertising Adaptability.
// xml返回了creativeHeight。
/ / xml returned creativeLight.
//图片拓展图片时。
/ / Photo when expanding the picture.
if(typeof(xml.find("Cexpansion")[0])!="undefined"){   //是否需要展开。
If (typeof (xml. find; Cempansion & quot;) & # 91; 0 & # 93;)! = & quot; underdefined & quot;) {/ / whether it needs to be carried out.
var cexpansion = xml.find("Cexpansion")[0].textContent.trim();//展开时。
var text = xml. find (& quot; Cempansion & quot;) & # 91; 0 & # 93; .text Content.
//图片拓展视频时   。
/ / Photo when expanding the video.
//视频拓展视频时。
/ / Video when expanding the video.
//收起广告。
/ / Put the ad away.
//将 http://或者https:// 转为//。
/ / Conversion from http: / / https: / / to /.
80名中国人在俄隔离始末：被忽视的同意书与总体规范的执法。
80 Chinese Isolated in Russia: Neglected Consent and Overall Normative Enforcement.
澎湃新闻记者 刘惠。
Liu Hui, a journalist.
2020-03-03 22:27 来源：澎湃新闻。
2020-03-03 22: 27 Source: surging news.
字号。
The font size.
超大。
Extremely large.
大。
Big.
标准。
Standards.
小。
Small.
受新冠肺炎疫情影响，俄罗斯首都莫斯科市政府近期采取严厉检疫举措，要求从中国抵达人员（含俄公民、第三国公民）入境后需在居住地自我隔离14天，警察在地铁站等公共交通设施检查由中国抵达俄罗斯的人员的入境时间并测量体温。
Due to the outbreak of new crown pneumonia, the Russian capital, Moscow, has recently taken stringent quarantine measures, requiring people arriving from China (including Russian citizens, citizens of third countries) to self-isolate for 14 days at their places of residence, and police at subway stations and other public transport facilities to check the arrival times and temperature of persons arriving in Russia from China.
据中国驻俄罗斯大使馆3月1日通报的消息，目前有80名涉嫌违反自我隔离规定的中国公民被集中在察里津诺康复中心等指定地点进行隔离。
At present, 80 Chinese citizens suspected of violating the self-segregation regulations are being held incommunicado at designated sites such as the Carizino Rehabilitation Center, the Chinese embassy in Moscow said.
俄媒RBC电视台2月28日报道称，莫斯科副市长拉科娃当日表示，警务人员对从中国飞抵莫斯科人员住处进行了突击检查，发现有88人违反强制隔离规定，其中80人为中国公民。
Moscow's deputy mayor said Sunday that police officers carried out raids on the residences of people arriving in Moscow from China and found 88 people, 80 of whom were Chinese citizens, to have violated the mandatory segregation rule.
所有违反规定的外国公民将被驱逐出境。
All foreign citizens who violate the rules will be deported.
如今，这80名中国人被隔离在著名旅游景点“女皇村”附近的察里津诺残疾人康复中心，他们中有留学生、有做生意的商人、有自由行游客，在入境时都签了一份俄语的隔离同意书。
The 80 Chinese are now housed in the Tsarizino Rehabilitation Centre for the Handicapped, near the famous tourist attraction "Queen's Village," which includes foreign students, businesspeople, free-going tourists and a Russian-language consent form for isolation.
这80人之中有些人向澎湃新闻（www.thepaper.cn）表示，当时并不了解这份同意书意味着什么——14天里不得离开住所，不遵守的后果是被驱逐出境且5年不得入境。
Some of these 80 people told the roaring news (www.thepper.cn) that they did not know what the consent meant - they were not allowed to leave their homes for 14 days, and the consequences of non-compliance were deportation and five years of non-entry.
一份未被重视的隔离同意书2004年12月1日，俄罗斯联邦政府颁布了《关于批准社会重大疾病和危害周围人群疾病清单》第715号令。
On 1 December 2004, the Government of the Russian Federation issued Order No. 715 "On approval of the list of socially significant diseases and diseases affecting the surrounding population."
今年1月31日，俄罗斯联邦首席卫生官第3号决定获通过，新冠病毒被列入上述疾病清单。
On 31 January this year, decision No. 3 of the Chief Health Officer of the Russian Federation was adopted and the new crown virus was added to the list of diseases mentioned above.
这是从中国入境人员被要求签署隔离同意书，以及在违反条例后面临处罚的法律依据。
This is the legal basis for persons entering China to be required to sign a consent form for isolation and to face penalties if they violate the regulations.
为应对新冠疫情，俄罗斯政府2月18日宣布自莫斯科时间2月20日零时起，俄方临时禁止持工作、私人访问、学习和旅游签证的中国公民入境。
In response to the outbreak of the new crown, the Russian Government announced February 18, starting at 00: 00 Moscow time, temporary ban on the entry of Chinese citizens holding jobs, private visits, study and tourist visas.
当地时间2月26日，俄罗斯宣布将应对新冠肺炎疫情采取的临时措施延长至4月1日。
February 26, local time, Russia announced that the response to the outbreak of pneumonia in the interim measures extended until April 1.
莫斯科副市长拉科娃2月28日在接受媒体采访时说，俄总理米舒斯京签署新的入境指令后，以莫斯科为目的地的中国公民数量明显减少。
Moscow's deputy mayor said in an interview with reporters on Feb. 28 that the number of Chinese citizens traveling to Moscow has dropped sharply after Prime Minister Yuliya Mishushkin signed new entry orders.
但仍有中国公民通过商务签证或人道主义等原因来到俄罗斯。
But Chinese citizens still come to Russia on business visas or on humanitarian grounds.
为了应对疫情，莫斯科市政府采取的检疫措施包括：从中国抵达的人员（含俄公民、第三国公民）在莫斯科入境时，需测量体温并填写健康和居留信息表（即隔离同意书）；从中国抵达的人员（含俄公民、第三国公民）入境后需在居住地自我隔离14天；莫斯科防疫部门对中国公民较为集中的学校、宾馆、市场等地上门进行体温检测。
In response to the outbreak, the Moscow city government took quarantine measures, including: taking temperature and filling out health and residence information forms (i.e. quarantine consent forms) when entering Moscow; self-isolation for 14 days after arrival from China (including Russian citizens, citizens of third countries); and temperature tests at schools, hotels and markets where Chinese citizens are concentrated.
并在地铁站等公共交通设施，检查由中国抵达俄罗斯的人员的入境时间，并测量体温。
Public transport facilities, such as subway stations, check the arrival time of persons arriving in Russia from China and take temperature measurements.
澎湃新闻获悉的一份隔离同意书内容显示，莫斯科市首席卫生官作出隔离要求，从中国入境人员需填写同意书内横线空格部分并签字确认：从中国入境的___（姓名，国籍）公民应该在决定作出之时起，在居住地___（地址）处于医学观察及隔离制度下___天（总计14天的隔离天数减去已入境天数）。
According to a copy of the quarantine agreement received by the news agency, the Chief Health Officer of Moscow requested that persons entering China fill in the blank space section of the consent form and sign a confirmation that _ _ _ _ (name, nationality) citizens entering China should be under the medical observation and isolation regime _ _ days from the date of the decision (total 14 days of isolation minus days of entry).
这代表签署者不能离开居住的房间，具体要求包括不能前往公共场所、不能乘坐交通工具、每天测两次体温、每天电话通报健康情况等。
This means that the signatory cannot leave the room in which he or she resides. Specific requirements include no access to public places, no means of transport, two body temperature tests per day, daily telephone briefings on health, etc.
从中国入境人员需签署的隔离同意书 本文图片均为受访者供图但有在察里津诺的中国人表示，他们是“糊里糊涂被带来隔离”的，一是不清楚隔离同意书的具体要求，二是警察执法时都告诉他们是去检查身体。
The picture shows Chinese people in Tsarizino saying that they were "foolishly brought to isolation," that they were unaware of the specific requirements for the quarantine consent, and that they were told by the police during law enforcement that they were going to be examined.
中国游客思思于2月19日抵达莫斯科，她一句俄语都不懂，因此在入境时她的那份隔离同意书由机场检疫人员代填，她仅被要求签上名字。
Chinese tourist Thoughts arrived in Moscow on February 19th, unable to understand a word of Russian, so her quarantine consent was filled in by the airport quarantine officer at the time of entry and she was only asked to sign her name.
“入境时机场有穿着防护服的医务人员指给我（隔离同意书）需要签字的地方，但他们不会讲中文和英语，我听不懂俄语。
"I had medical staff in protective clothing at the airport at the time of entry pointing out where I needed to sign [the quarantine consent], but they could not speak Chinese or English and I could not understand Russian.
”思思告诉澎湃新闻，“我问他们这是什么文件，没有人回答我。
"I asked them what the document was, and no one answered.
”2月19日，思思抵达莫斯科思思在2019年底办的旅游签证，只被允许在俄罗斯境内待一个月，“如果知道需要在酒店自我隔离14天，我肯定不会去的。
On Feb. 19, Think arrived in Moscow to think about a tourist visa at the end of 2019, and was allowed to stay in Russia for only one month.
”思思说道。
'she said.
遇到类似情况的，还有俄语不好的郝先生，他甚至没在意自己签过什么文件，以为只是走个入境流程。
In a similar vein, Mr. Hao, who did not know the Russian language well, did not even care what documents he had signed, thinking it was just an entry process.
“我在俄罗斯十多年了，做点生意谋生，如果知道有这样的规定，肯定不会违反的。
"I've been in Russia for more than a decade, doing business and making a living, and I wouldn't violate that rule if I knew it.
”郝先生说。
"said Mr. Hao.
因为刚从国内回莫斯科，他去了住处附近的超市买点食品，就在那里被警察带去了隔离中心。
Having just returned to Moscow from home, he went to the supermarket near his residence to buy some food, where he was taken by the police to the isolation centre.
由于俄语不好，他没有细看入境时所签文件的具体内容。
Owing to his poor command of Russian, he did not scrutinize the details of the documents signed at the time of entry.
直到被带至察里津诺隔离，他才明白自己违反了哪项条例，“没想到把工作签证搭进去了。
It was not until he was taken to Tsarizino's isolation that he realized which regulations he had violated.
”莫斯科某高校经济系研究生王伟已经来俄罗斯6年了，他可以用俄语沟通，也遵守了14天居家隔离的规定。
Wang Wei, a graduate economics student from a Moscow university who has been in Russia for six years, can communicate in Russian and observes the 14-day rule.
据他介绍，2月5日到了莫斯科之后，每天都有医生会问他身体情况。
After arriving in Moscow on February 5, doctors asked him about his health every day, he said.
每隔两天，会有医生上门检查体温，然后鼻腔口腔取样。
Every two days, a doctor visits you to take a temperature check and then take a nasal cavity sample.
直到2月19日，医生告诉他隔离解除了，2月20日他去医院领取了健康诊断证明，“当时医生跟我说，可以去上课了。
It was not until 19 February that the doctor told him that the isolation had been lifted and that on 20 February he went to the hospital to receive a health certificate.
”王伟14天居家隔离期满后，医院提供的健康证明但到了2月22日，王伟有一个合租室友从国内回到莫斯科，在下楼倒垃圾的途中遇到警察。
After Wang Wei's 14-day stay-at-home quarantine expired, the hospital issued a health certificate but on February 22, a roommate of Mr. Wang returned to Moscow from China to meet police on the way down the stairs to empty the trash.
之后警察带着医生上门执法，医生对所有人做了一系列检查后，警察将他们所有5个中国人全部带至察里津诺。
The police then took the doctor to the door to enforce the law, and after a series of examinations on all of them, the police took all five of them to Charizino.
“去的路上我问了警察去做什么，警察说去检查一下，他会替我说明特殊情况，很快就回来。
"On the way I asked the policeman what he was going to do, and the policeman said he would go and check it out.
到了以后才发现是个强制隔离点，说要强制隔离14天。
It turned out to be a forced isolation point, saying it would be mandatory for 14 days.
”王伟觉得很冤枉，“这些我都认了，但后面又变成了遣返出境。
"Wang Wei felt wronged." I did it all, but it turned out to be deportation.
”“没人听我解释。
"Nobody listens to me.
”他补充道。
'he added.
因生意需要，长期在北京和莫斯科两地往返的商人张丽告诉澎湃新闻，她从1月31日起两次往返莫斯科，2月20日入境时签的文件只有俄文，没有中文或英文提示，也没有任何人告诉她要在家自行隔离14日，“一直以为是普通的健康表格。
Zhang Li, a businessman who has been traveling to and from Beijing and Moscow for a long time for business reasons, told Pai Pai News that she had travelled to and from Moscow twice since January 31, had signed documents in Russian only on February 20, had no Chinese or English instructions, and had not been told to isolate herself at home for 14 days.
”2月23日，张丽和爱人王晓明打算从莫斯科飞回北京，在开车去机场的路上被交警拦下，“交警不听任何解释，把我们交给警察，警察告诉我们去医院检查个体温就可以出去，但他们扣押了我们的护照。
"On February 23, Zhang Li and her wife Wang Xiaoming were planning to fly back from Moscow to Beijing when they were stopped by traffic police on the way to the airport." Without any explanation, they handed us over to the police, who told us we could go to the hospital for a temperature check, but they seized our passports.
到医院填完表格后，我们被告知得强制隔离。
After filling out the form at the hospital, we were told to enforce quarantine.
”如上述一样存在争议的情况不是个例，也不仅仅针对中国公民。
Controversial circumstances, such as the one described above, are not unique, nor are they specific to Chinese citizens.
俄罗斯BFM新闻网2月29日报道称，一名俄罗斯公民亚历桑德拉2月8日从中国返回莫斯科，她在2月19日出现生病症状后致电医院并被带走。
A Russian citizen, Aleksandra, who returned to Moscow from China on February 8, telephoned the hospital and was taken away after showing symptoms of illness on February 19, the BFM news network reported Tuesday.
随后，在医生问她为何违反隔离规定时，她才知道自己在机场签署过一份同意书。
She then learned that she had signed a consent form at the airport when the doctor asked her why she had breached the quarantine.
“他们后来给我看了我签的文件，上面内容草率，新冠病毒的一个字母都拼错了。
"They later showed me my signed document, which was sloppy and contained a misspelled letter for the new crown virus.
”亚历桑德拉说道，“没人给我解释过这份文件，对于不懂俄语的人来说，更难理解。
"No one has explained the document to me, and it's more difficult for people who don't understand Russian," he said.
”视频宣判与十天上诉期在察里津诺枯燥的隔离生活很快被一则消息打破平静。
The video sentence was soon calmed by a news report after a tedious 10-day separation period in Tsarizino.
2月27日，郝先生被两名警察从四人间带去另一个房间，要求在一份遣返同意书上“签字画押”。
On 27 February, Mr. Hao was taken from four persons to another room by two police officers, who asked for a "signature" on a return consent form.
在他拒绝签字、拒绝按手印后，郝先生于2月28日再次被带去接受视频庭审。
After he refused to sign and fingerprint, Mr. Hao was again taken to a video hearing on 28 February.
据他说，视频庭审现场有一个法官，一个翻译，法官当庭宣判罚款5000卢布（约合人民币526元），并将他驱逐出境，5年内不得再次入境。
He said a judge, an interpreter, fined 5,000 roubles (526 yuan) in court and deported him without re-entry for five years.
“我提出不同意审判结果，他们给了我一张纸条，翻译说不服可以10天内上诉。
"I offered to disagree with the outcome of the trial and they gave me a note saying that the interpreter could appeal within 10 days.
可我现在被隔离了，不知道怎么上诉。
But I'm in quarantine now. I don't know how to appeal.
”郝先生说道。
"said Mr. Hao.
2月28日，王伟也被叫去接受视频庭审。
On Feb. 28, Wang Wei was also called to a video court hearing.
由于多人拒绝签署遣返同意书，到了28日，“签字画押”环节被取消，改为直接审判。
As many people refused to sign the consent form, the "signature painting" was cancelled and replaced by a direct trial on 28 July.
据王伟描述：“在法官要求我陈述时，我试图说明自己隔离期已满14天的情况，但法官让我对着翻译说。
"When the judge asked me to make a statement, I tried to account for my 14 days of isolation," Wang described, "but the judge asked me to speak to the interpreter.
因为我懂俄语，所以我知道翻译的水平，他根本没有如实翻译。
Because I know Russian, I know the level of translation, he did not really translate.
之后法官直接宣布了审判结果，他讲了3分钟，翻译只告诉我两句话——你被罚款5000卢布并被驱逐出境，5年内禁止入境。
The judge then announced the outcome of the trial directly. He spoke for three minutes and the interpreter told me only two sentences - you were fined 5,000 roubles and expelled from the country for five years.
”然后，庭审就结束了。
"Then the hearing was over.
这期间王伟没见到判决书，只被告知10天之内可以上诉，但不知道该向哪里上诉。
During this time Wang Wei did not see the verdict, was told only 10 days to appeal, but did not know where to appeal.
王伟说，从屏幕里的俄语翻译到听不清声音的法官，他觉得整个过程“有点可笑”。
Wang said he found the process "a little ridiculous" as he translated from Russian on-screen to judges who couldn't hear clearly.
2月29、3月1日两天是周末，对察里津诺被隔离人员的视频庭审暂停了下来，但在因该事件而建的“80人家人记者帮助（微信）群”里，焦虑一刻不停地在蔓延。
On the weekend of February 29 and March 1, the video-conferencing of Carizino's quarantined people was suspended, but anxiety continued to spread in the "80-family reporter help group" created in connection with the incident.
面对自媒体上关于俄罗斯警察暴力执法、中国公民遭到虐待的谣言，他们也很无奈。
They are also helpless in the face of media rumours of violent law enforcement by Russian police and ill-treatment of Chinese citizens.
一名被隔离在察里津诺的中国人在微博辩驳称，“造谣的不是被隔离的80个中国公民，但网友会自动联想，然后说我们造谣。
"It's not the 80 Chinese citizens who have been isolated, but the cyber-friends will automatically associate and say we are rumoring," retorted a microblog.
”中国驻俄罗斯大使馆3月1日发布的公告对相关谣言做出了澄清。
A statement released March 1 by the Chinese embassy in Russia cleared up rumours.
公告称，近日，使馆注意到个别自媒体上传言称莫斯科警方暴力执法，虐待隔离人员，无故带走中国公民。
The statement said recently, the embassy noted individual rumors from the media that Moscow police violence law enforcement, ill-treatment of isolated personnel, took away Chinese citizens without cause.
我馆高度关注此事。
Our library pays close attention to this matter.
经核实，该传言并不属实。
The rumour was verified as untrue.
被警方带走的人员均涉嫌违反了俄防疫规定。
All the people taken away by the police are suspected of violating Russian epidemic prevention regulations.
经查证，造谣者与日前散布中国公民因感染冠状病毒被俄方抛尸荒野谣言者系同一人。
It has been verified that the rumour-mongers and those who spread rumors that Chinese citizens have been dumped into the wild by the Russian side because they are infected with coronavirus are the same.
“老实说，隔离条件还不错，伙食是不好，但大家也没有抱怨。
"To tell the truth, the isolation was good, the food was bad, and there was no complaint.
”王伟说，“大家的重点在于觉得这个判罚不公平。
"The point is to feel the penalty is unfair," Wang said.
”依据目前法院的判决，若不上诉，当事人将面临强制驱逐而不是自行离境。
According to the current court decision, without appeal, the person concerned would face forced eviction instead of leaving the country on his own initiative.
在收到判决书后，当事人需在专门的收容所等待被遣返回国。
Upon receipt of the judgement, the person concerned awaits repatriation to a special shelter.
由于收容所的文件交接和准备，护送人员和车辆的调配，被强制驱逐人员会在收容所停留一段时间。
Forced deportees stay in shelters for a period of time due to the handover and preparation of shelter documents and the deployment of escorts and vehicles.
经过收容所负责人的同意，律师可以会见当事人。
With the consent of the head of the shelter, the lawyer may meet the client.
80人微信群中流传的视频截图显示，收容所条件恶劣。
Video footage circulated among the 80-person microphone group showed poor shelter conditions.
“听说收容所条件很差，人员很杂不安全，我们现在就是任人宰割的心情。
"We are in the mood to be slaughtered when we hear that the shelter is very poor and the people are unsafe.
”尚未接受视频庭审的思思说道。
"said the reflection, who hasn't yet appeared in court by video.
中国驻俄罗斯大使馆3月1日的公告称，对于在察里津诺隔离的80名中国公民，使馆相关部门与俄联邦和地方主管部门负责人保持密切沟通，逐一了解80名中国公民被处罚的法律依据和具体事实，与被隔离人员热线联系、安抚情绪，并提供必要的领事服务和法律援助，跟进部分被判罚公民案件进展和上诉审理。
The Chinese embassy in Moscow on March 1 said that for the 80 Chinese citizens isolated in Tsarizino, the relevant departments of the embassy have been in close communication with the heads of the Russian Federation and local authorities to find out the legal basis and specific facts of the punishment of 80 Chinese citizens, contact the hotline to appease them and provide necessary consular services and legal aid.
“只查中国人”和“称不上歧视”莫斯科市采取的防疫措施也的确引发了是否只针对中国人的质疑。
The cordon sanitaire measures taken by Moscow to "look only at the Chinese" and "not discriminate" do raise questions about whether they are aimed only at the Chinese.
“当时在莫斯科的中国留学生有些愤慨，虽然当地政府否认，但是警察确实给人专门查中国人的感觉。
"Chinese students in Moscow were outraged that although the local government denied this, the police did give people a special look at the Chinese feeling.
”留学生林川日前对澎湃新闻表示，如果是随机检查，大家不会对检疫措施有意见。
Lin Chuan, an international student, told the roaring news that if it was a random inspection, people would not have problems with quarantine measures.
3月1日，林川在罗蒙诺索夫大街地铁站遇到警察查证件，他被要求出示护照（首页、签证页）、入境卡、入境登记/落地签以及医院证明供警察拍照。
On 1 March, Lin Chuan met the police at the Lomonosov Street subway station for identification. He was asked to present his passport (front page, visa page), entry card, entry / arrival visa and a hospital certificate for police to take photographs.
警察还需拍下他的正面照，并登记手机号码。
The police also had to take positive photographs of him and register his cell phone number.
同时，警察帮他填写了一份包含国籍、入境日期等信息的中俄双语表格，由他签字，表格名称为《莫斯科公共交通使用者的申请表》。
At the same time, the police filled out a bilingual Chinese-Russian form, entitled "Application Form for Users of Public Transport in Moscow," containing information on nationality and date of entry, which he signed.
“警察看到我的时候，先朝我敬了个礼，然后把我引向了一边，全程都是笑笑的。
"When the police saw me, they saluted me first and then took me aside, laughing all the way.
”林川说，他将整个过程录了音。
"Lin said he recorded the whole process.
警察在莫斯科罗蒙诺索夫大街地铁站登记林川信息中国驻俄大使馆曾于2月24日照会莫斯科市政府称，注意到近日莫斯科市政府为防止疫情蔓延所采取的补充措施，包括对来自中国的所有人员进行普遍监控，但相关部门在实际操作中似乎仅对中国公民进行查验、登记。
China's embassy in Moscow said on February 24 it had taken note of additional measures taken by the Moscow city government to prevent the spread of the epidemic, including a general surveillance of all personnel from China, but in practice the authorities appeared to check and register only Chinese citizens.
中方对俄方采取防疫措施的必要性表示理解，但也强调，“希望有关措施适度、非歧视性”，“不要采取过度措施”，使有关举措符合中俄友好精神及两国关系应有水平。
China understands the need for Russia to take preventive measures, but also stresses that it hopes relevant measures will be proportionate and non-discriminatory and that no excessive measures will be taken to ensure that the measures are in line with the spirit of friendship between China and Russia and the level of relations between the two countries.
据俄罗斯卫星通讯社消息，被问及上述照会时，克里姆林宫发言人佩斯科夫2月26日称举措“不存在任何歧视”，“该措施针对的是所有入境旅客”。
Asked about the note, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said on February 26 that the move was "non-discriminatory" and "targeted at all incoming passengers," according to the Russian satellite news agency.
他同时表示对于中方递交的照会不知情。
He also said he was unaware of China's note.
2月27日，莫斯科市长索比亚宁回复了中国大使馆的外交照会，否认检疫政策针对中国公民，认为相关措施不构成歧视。
On 27 February, the Mayor of Moscow responded to a diplomatic note from the Chinese Embassy denying that the quarantine policy had targeted Chinese citizens and that the measures in question did not constitute discrimination.
同时，中国驻俄罗斯大使馆2月27日发布公告称，索比亚宁回复我馆称，莫斯科市政府高度重视发展与中国的友好关系，真诚向中国和其他国家的新冠肺炎病毒患者及其家人表示同情和慰问。
At the same time, the Chinese Embassy in Russia issued a statement on February 27, saying that the Moscow city government attaches great importance to developing friendly relations with China and sincerely expresses sympathy and condolences to China and other countries affected by the new crown pneumonia virus and their families.
近期所有来自疫情国家或地区的人员都必须在居住地或停留地隔离14天，不能外出活动。
All persons from countries or areas affected by the epidemic must remain in isolation for 14 days and not be allowed to travel outside their homes.
莫斯科市政府请大使馆对俄方被迫采取这一防止新冠肺炎病毒在莫斯科扩散的措施予以谅解，并希望我馆呼吁所有来莫斯科的中国公民严格遵守隔离规定。
The Moscow city government asked the embassy for an understanding of the measures Russia was forced to take to prevent the spread of the new crown pneumonia virus in Moscow, and hoped that our library would appeal to all Chinese citizens who come to Moscow to strictly abide by the quarantine regulations.
在俄罗斯国立高等经济大学的留学生小曹则表示自己从没有遇到因疫情被身边俄罗斯人歧视的情况，更多的是一些来自医务人员和楼管大妈的温暖。
Cao, a foreign student at Russia's State University of Higher Economics, said he had never encountered discrimination against Russians around him because of the outbreak.
她于2月13日在宿舍结束14天居家隔离，之后还未遇到被警察盘查的情况。
She was placed in residential isolation for 14 days on 13 February, after which she had not been questioned by the police.
“地铁随机抽查可能是为了让莫斯科本地民众心安，将心比心，我认为称不上歧视中国人。
"Random metro checks may be a way to reassure and sympathize with the local population in Moscow, and I don't think it discriminates against the Chinese."
”小曹告诉澎湃新闻。
"Little Cao told the news.
中国驻俄罗斯大使馆3月1日的公告称，俄方出于疫情防控需要采取的临时防疫措施，应当予以尊重。
China's embassy in Russia on March 1 said that the Russian side for the prevention and control of the disease needs to take temporary epidemic prevention measures should be respected.
使馆在工作中注意到，俄执法部门对本国公民和其他国家公民也进行了防疫检查。
In the course of its work, the Embassy noted that Russian law enforcement authorities also carried out vaccination checks on citizens of the Russian Federation and citizens of other countries.
据使馆了解，莫斯科市执法人员总体上执法规范，检查护照确认入境时间超过14天后即予放行。
According to the Embassy's information, law enforcement officials in Moscow generally enforce the law by checking passports and confirming their entry into the country after 14 days.
如中国公民遇到过度执法行为或遭遇不公正待遇，请如实向使馆反映。
If Chinese citizens encounter excessive law enforcement or are subjected to unfair treatment, please report to the Embassy accordingly.
我馆将切实维护中国公民的合法权益。
Our library will protect the legitimate rights and interests of Chinese citizens.
（应受访者要求，文中所有人物均为化名）(本文来自澎湃新闻，更多原创资讯请下载“澎湃新闻”APP)。
(All characters in the article are pseudonyms at the request of the interviewee). (This article comes from Peng Pai News. For more original information, please download the "Peng Pai News" APP.
责任编辑：朱郑勇校对：丁晓。
Responsibility Editor: Zhu Zhengyong proofread by Ding Xiao.
澎湃新闻报料：4009-20-4009  澎湃新闻，未经授权不得转载。
Pai news: 4009-20-4009 surging news, not allowed to reproduce without authorization.
关键词 >> 俄罗斯,新冠疫情,中国公民。
Key words & gt; RUSSIA, NEW GUANE Epidemic, a Chinese citizen.
收藏。
Collection.
跟踪: 俄罗斯新冠疫情。
Tracking: Russian New Crown Epidemic.
相关推荐。
Relevant recommendations.
评论（169）。
Comment (169).
热新闻。
Hot news.
一天。
One day.
三天。
Three days.
一周。
One week.
山东省检察机关依法决定对任城监狱疫情事件相关人员立案侦查。
Shandong Provincial Procuratorate decided to file a case against the personnel involved in the epidemic situation in Ren Cheng prison.
中国驻俄罗斯使馆高度关注中国公民被遣返事。
The Chinese Embassy in Russia is highly concerned about the repatriation of Chinese citizens.
巴基斯坦将全国医院库存口罩捐赠中国。
Pakistan donates national hospital stock masks to China.
国家卫健委：昨日新增确诊病例139例，湖北新增134例。
National Health Commission: 139 new cases were confirmed yesterday and 134 new cases were reported in Hubei Province.
广电总局：湖北人民可免费看网剧，1个月五千余部精品节目。
General Administration of Radio, Television and Radio: Hubei people can watch free online drama, a month more than 5,000 boutique programs.
中共中央、国务院关于深化医疗保障制度改革的意见。
The CPC Central Committee and the State Council on Deepening Reform of Medical Security System.
特稿丨危险的控制：起底韩国疫情风暴眼新天地教会。
Control of Features and Risks: Korean Outbreak Storm Eye Church
新冠病毒会随着升温而消失？张文宏：很难讲，大概率可能是的。
Will the new canopy virus disappear with the warming? Zhang Wenhong: It's hard to say, the high probability may be.
张伯礼：到3月底，武汉有希望新增病例基本“清零”。
Zhang: By the end of March, Wuhan is expected to increase the number of new cases of "zero."
外交部驳美主持人要中国就疫情道歉言论：荒谬可笑，毫无根据。
Foreign Ministry barge host asked China to apologize for the outbreak: ridiculous, groundless.
著名歌唱家克里木去世，他演唱的《掀起你的盖头来》脍炙人口。
Famous singer Kerim died, his singing "lift your head to come" won great acclaim.
山东省检察机关依法决定对任城监狱疫情事件相关人员立案侦查。
Shandong Provincial Procuratorate decided to file a case against the personnel involved in the epidemic situation in Ren Cheng prison.
中国科研团队：新冠病毒已突变，有2个亚型，传染力有差异。
Chinese research team: The new crown virus has mutated, has 2 subtypes, infectivity difference.
全球首例！香港确诊狗感染病毒：系新冠肺炎确诊患者的爱犬。
First case in the world! Confirmed Dog Infection Virus in Hong Kong: A Dog for Patients Confirmed with Newly Coronary Pneumonia.
湖北省神农架林区发生野猪非洲猪瘟疫情，共发现死亡野猪7头。
A total of 7 dead wild boars were found in wild boar African swine fever in Shennongjia forest area of Hubei Province.
浙江公布7例输入病例情况：同在一家意大利餐厅工作。
Zhejiang announced seven imported cases: working at the same Italian restaurant.
文在寅宣布对新冠病毒作战，韩国进入24小时全面戒备状态。
Wen announced a 24-hour state of full alert for the New Crown Virus.
山东省任城监狱疫情事件已查清。
Shandong Ren Cheng prison outbreak has been clarified.
伊朗版“火神山”医院开建，革命卫队地面部队进入警戒状态。
Iran's version of the "mountain of fire" hospital opened, Revolutionary Guards ground troops into alert.
日本奥运大臣：根据协议，可以解释为允许奥运会推迟到年底。
Japanese Olympic Minister: According to the agreement, this could be interpreted as allowing the Olympics to be postponed until the end of the year.
央视快评：疫情防控不能松，发展工作要抓紧。
CCTV quick comment: the epidemic prevention and control can not relax, development work to grasp.
最新进展！非洲猪瘟疫苗创制成功，向产业化应用迈出坚实一步。
The success of the creation of African swine fever vaccine has taken a solid step towards industrialization.
外交习语｜战“疫”时期，中国元首外交这样开展。
diplomatic idiom: During the plague era, Chinese head of state diplomacy began this way.
守望相助，坚忍不拔——致敬武汉战“疫”中千千万万平凡英雄。
Watching each other and persevering in paying homage to the tens of thousands of ordinary heroes in the "plague" of Wuhan.
9组数据回顾2月战疫，3月继续加油！。
9 groups of data reviewed February plague, continued refuelling in March.
“国兴1”号货船在日本海域沉没，7名中国籍船员失踪。
Seven Chinese crew members are missing after the sinking of the vessel Guoxing-1 in Japanese waters.
著名歌唱家克里木去世，他演唱的《掀起你的盖头来》脍炙人口。
Famous singer Kerim died, his singing "lift your head to come" won great acclaim.
中央和国家机关在广大党员中积极开展自愿捐款。
The central and state organs actively solicit voluntary contributions from all Party members.
景区开放，机票卖出白菜价，疫情过后你想去哪？。
The scenic spot is open, the ticket sells the cabbage price, after the epidemic situation you want to go?
中央指导组现场指导督导监狱和社会福利院疫情防控工作。
The Central Steering Group provides on-site guidance and supervision of epidemic prevention and control in prisons and social welfare institutions.
澎湃新闻APP下载。
Pai news APP download.
热话题。
Hot topics.
一天。
One day.
三天。
Three days.
一周。
One week.
我是在日本新闻一线工作,新冠疫情中日本政界和民众态度如何,问我吧!。
I am working in the front line of Japanese journalism. What is the attitude of Japanese politics and people in the New Crown Epidemic? Ask me.
我旅居意大利17年,疫情下当地民众生活什么样,问我吧!。
I've been living in Italy for 17 years. Ask me what life is like for the local population.
疫情面前，你家亲戚让你操心了吗？。
Did your relatives worry you about the outbreak?
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
我是韩国庆熙大学博士万延娇,疫情中的首尔什么样,问吧!。
I'm Dr. Wan Yanjiao of Kyeongxi University in Korea. What's Seoul like in the epidemic? Ask.
我是在日本新闻一线工作,新冠疫情中日本政界和民众态度如何,问我吧!。
I am working in the front line of Japanese journalism. What is the attitude of Japanese politics and people in the New Crown Epidemic? Ask me.
我旅居意大利17年,疫情下当地民众生活什么样,问我吧!。
I've been living in Italy for 17 years. Ask me what life is like for the local population.
疫情面前，你家亲戚让你操心了吗？。
Did your relatives worry you about the outbreak?
我是韩国庆熙大学博士万延娇,疫情中的首尔什么样,问吧!。
I'm Dr. Wan Yanjiao of Kyeongxi University in Korea. What's Seoul like in the epidemic? Ask.
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
我是在日本新闻一线工作,新冠疫情中日本政界和民众态度如何,问我吧!。
I am working in the front line of Japanese journalism. What is the attitude of Japanese politics and people in the New Crown Epidemic? Ask me.
我旅居意大利17年,疫情下当地民众生活什么样,问我吧!。
I've been living in Italy for 17 years. Ask me what life is like for the local population.
我是韩国庆熙大学博士万延娇,疫情中的首尔什么样,问吧!。
I'm Dr. Wan Yanjiao of Kyeongxi University in Korea. What's Seoul like in the epidemic? Ask.
疫情面前，你家亲戚让你操心了吗？。
Did your relatives worry you about the outbreak?
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
热门推荐。
Hot recommendations.
财政部：2月湖北国库仅有零星收入，将按周调度资金给湖北。
Ministry of Finance: Hubei treasury has only sporadic income in February, will dispatch funds to Hubei on a weekly basis.
三部门表彰全国卫生健康系统疫情防控工作先进集体和个人。
Three departments recognize the national health system epidemic prevention and control of advanced collective and individual.
特写｜欧洲疫情蔓延下的中国留学生。
Feature: Chinese students studying under the spread of the European epidemic.
特稿丨危险的控制：起底韩国疫情风暴眼新天地教会。
Control of Features and Risks: Korean Outbreak Storm Eye Church
新冠病毒会随着升温而消失？张文宏：很难讲，大概率可能是的。
Will the new canopy virus disappear with the warming? Zhang Wenhong: It's hard to say, the high probability may be.
var lbdHeight = $(".head_ad").height()+$(".head").height()+$(".main_rt").height()-260; //滑到体到顶部的高度。
var lbdLight = $(& quot; .head _ ad & quot;) .height () + $(& quot; .head & quot;) .height () + $(& quot; .main _ rt & quot;) .light (-260; / / sliding to top height.
var topHeight = parseInt($(window).scrollTop() + 1 + 70);  //浮动频道高度70。
var topLight = parseInt ($(window) .scrollTop (+ 1 + 70); / / floating channel height 70.
联系我们。
Contact us.
关于澎湃。
About the roar.
在澎湃工作。
Working in the roar.
联系我们。
Contact us.
版权声明。
Copyright statement.
隐私政策。
Privacy policy.
澎湃广告。
There was a roaring advertisement.
友情链接。
Links to friends.
澎湃新闻举报受理和处置办法。
Measures for handling and handling surging news reports.
严正声明。
Solemn declaration.
Copyright © 2014~2020 The Paper All rights reserved.上海东方报业有限公司 | 沪ICP证：沪B2-20170116 | 沪ICP备14003370号 | 互联网新闻信息服务许可证：31120170006。
Shanghai Oriental Daily News Ltd. & # 144; Shanghai ICP Certificate: Shanghai B2-20170116 & # 124; Shanghai ICP Readiness 14003370 & # 124; Internet News Information Service license: 31120170006.
沪公网安备 31010602000299号。
Shanghai Public Net 3101 602000299.
站长统计。
Station master statistics.
c={//监测配置。
c = {/ monitoring configuration.
UA:"UA-thepaper-000002", //客户项目编号,由系统生成。
UA: & quot; UA-theaper-000002 & quot;, / or customer project number, generated by the system.
URL:'//file.thepaper.cn/www/v3/js/iwt-min.js'//iwt.js的URL位置，请客户自行托管JS文件，只需修改此值。
URL::: / / file.thepaper.cn / www.v3 / js / iwt-min.js & apos; / / iwt.js URL location; and / or iwt.js, have its client manage a JS file by yourself, simply modify this value.
//多视频。
/ / Multi-Video.
