一线女医生“抗战”：遇上生理期像是历劫。
First-line female doctors "resistance": encounter physiological period like robbery.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻记者 钟笑玫 实习生 沈青青半夜两三点醒来是常事。
Peng Pai news reporters Zhong laugh Mae Intern Shen Qingqing wake up in the middle of the night is common.
摸到手机，李昕给好友发微信：“紧张怎么办？你安慰安慰我。
Touching the mobile phone, Li Xin sent a message to friends: "How to be nervous? You comfort and comfort me.
”对方正在熟睡，她当然知道。
"The other party was asleep ， and of course she knew ．
只不过白天紧绷的神经一松，同济大学附属东方医院援鄂医疗队女医生的担子卸下，她开始忧心女儿的学习、母亲的糖尿病和自己的安危。
Just the tension of the day nerves, Tongji University attached to the Eastern Hospital medical team to relieve the burden of female doctors, she began to worry about her daughter's study, her mother's diabetes and their own safety.
被压下去的焦虑、惧怕和孤独，又冒了出来。
The anxiety, the fear, the loneliness that had been crushed came out again.
李昕打开手机里穿脱防护服的教学视频。
Li Xin opened the mobile phone to wear protective clothing in the teaching video.
示范的医生曾抗击埃博拉病毒，现在在金银潭医院救治重症新冠患者。
Demonstrated doctors who fought Ebola are now treating patients with severe crowns at the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
对方每示范一遍，她就在脑海里演示一遍，直到睡去。
With each demonstration, she would repeat it in her head until she went to sleep.
醒来的时间是不固定的。
The time of waking is not fixed.
其他医生生病、摔伤、剃头刮破皮肤或者临时没找到装备……李昕随时会接到临时值班的电话。
Other doctors fall ill, fall, shave their skin or temporarily fail to find equipment... Li Xin is always on temporary duty.
武汉东西湖方舱医院（又名武汉客厅方舱医院）医护人员每6小时换一次班，8至14点为早班，接下来是午班、中班和夜班。
Wuhan east-west lake cabin hospital (also known as Wuhan living room square cabin hospital) medical staff change shifts every six hours, 8 to 14 early morning, followed by afternoon, middle and night shifts.
每个人相邻两次值班的时间通常间隔24至48小时。
There is usually a 24-48-hour interval between two shifts per person.
来回路程、穿脱防护服、交接班和回酒店消毒，算上这些时间，医护人员得提前2小时准备，延迟2小时休息。
Taking into account the time required for round-trip travel, protective clothing, hand-over and back-to-hotel sanitization, medical staff had to prepare for the trip two hours in advance, with a two-hour delay.
如果值早班，李昕得清晨6点起床。
If there is an early shift, Li Xin has to get up at 6 am.
值完中班，她凌晨四点才能躺在床上。
She can't lie in bed until four o'clock in the morning after work.
梦里，她的血被制成特效疫苗，就连重症患者打了也能好。
In the dream, her blood was made into a special-effects vaccine, even severe patients can fight well.
最后一个患者笑嘻嘻打完后，方舱空荡荡，医护人员全都放假回家了。
When the last patient had finished laughing, the cabin was empty and all the paramedics were back home on holiday.
李昕女儿画的卡通画，希望妈妈能治住新冠病毒。
Li Xin daughter's cartoon, hope that the mother can treat the new crown virus.
除特殊注明，图片皆为受访者提供1装备早班的闹钟会在6点将李昕从梦中唤醒。
Unless otherwise indicated, the photos provide respondents with 1 alarm clock equipped for the morning shift that awakens Li Xin from his dreams at 6 pm.
窗外昏黑一片，封城的武汉少了烟火气，也没有汽笛声。
Outside the window, a dark, sealed Wuhan without fireworks, there is no sound of whistle.
她习惯把这个位于东西湖区酒店九楼的房间称为“家”：比起方舱医院，这里让她感到更安全。
She used to call the room on the ninth floor of the East and West Lake Hotel "home": it made her feel safer than the cabin hospital.
“家”里没有早饭，为了避免上厕所和低血糖，她没喝水，干咽了两个小蛋糕。
There was no breakfast in the house. To avoid going to the bathroom and keeping her blood sugar low, she drank two small cakes dry.
防护用品有备无患，她左边口袋装着小瓶消毒水和眼药水，右边口袋里是口罩和抗病毒口服液。
She had a small bottle of disinfectant and eye drops in her left pocket and a mask and antiviral oral liquid in her right pocket.
她这边把衣服塞得鼓鼓囊囊，用20个发卡固定好碎发，带上口罩，套上胶鞋，下了楼。
She stuffed her clothes, stuck her hair in 20 locks, put on a mask, put on her rubber shoes, and went downstairs.
此时的武汉，道路空旷而冷寂，车里的医生坐在一起，忍不住“提前上班”：A患者本该两天前做的核酸检测迟迟未做，B患者因为老公去世在晚上大哭但抵触心理医生，C患者想看CT片子可方舱当时只能出具结果报告……近20分钟后，车停了。
Wuhan, at this time, the road is empty and cold, the car doctor sitting together, can not help but "early to work": A patients should have done two days ago did not do nucleic acid tests, B patients because her husband died crying at night but resisted the psychiatrist, C patients want to see CT pictures can only produce results report.
东西湖方舱医院二三十米外，浅咖色的医用帐篷紧挨着。
Twenty or thirty meters from the East-West Lake Fang Hospital, a light curry medical tent nestled next to it.
一街之隔，收治重症患者的金银潭医院正俯视这片低矮建筑群。
Across the street, the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, which caters for critically ill patients, dominates the low-rise complex.
走进方舱时，医护人员感到金银潭医院在背后给自己施压：如果患者病情加重，很快就会进入更危险的境地。
As they entered the cabin, the paramedics felt pressure from the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital behind them: if the patient got worse, he would soon be in a more dangerous position.
澎湃新闻记者 赵思维 图李昕记得，2月5日，她和同事花了3个多小时搭建这些帐篷。
Zhao Yintu Li Xin, a journalist, remembers that she and her colleagues spent more than three hours setting up the tents on February 5.
那时，舱内的电路和通风设施还在建，没有隔板。
At that time, the electrical circuits and ventilation were still under construction, with no partitions.
看着密密麻麻的病床，她联想到新冠病毒，头皮发麻。
Looking at the dense bed, she thought of the new crown virus, dandruff.
方舱医院里满目皆床。
The cabin hospital is full of beds.
李文亮医生在2月7日凌晨离世，这则噩耗加深了李昕的不安。
The death of Dr Li Wenliang in the early hours of February 7 deepened Li's uneasiness.
当晚，东西湖方舱医院收治患者，她被安排在2月8日凌晨进舱。
That night, the East-West Lake Fang Hospital admitted patients, she was scheduled to enter the cabin in the early hours of February 8.
“要进去打仗了，突然紧张起来，万一我有什么，女儿您帮我照顾，她做您女儿，我放心。
"To go in to war, suddenly tense up, in case I have anything, daughter you help me to take care of, she is your daughter, I rest assured.
”她发消息给女儿的班主任。
She sent the news to her daughter's head teacher.
她告诉了父亲自己两张银行卡的密码，说把钱留给女儿上学。
She told her father the password of two bank cards and said she would leave the money for her daughter's school.
“妈妈如果不在了，要照顾自己，已经是少年了，钱留着上学时候用，不要乱花。
"If the mother is not there, to take care of themselves, has been a juvenile, money for school use, do not spend.
”她又叮嘱女儿。
"And she directed her daughter.
女更衣室帐篷里，她把手机放进储物柜，换上单薄的绿色手术服，顶着寒风往入舱口奔。
In the women's locker tent, she put her cell phone in a locker, replaced it with a thin green surgical uniform, and rushed into the hatch against the cold wind.
东西湖方舱医院分为A、B、C三块区域，各有一个入舱口，舱口前都设有一个帐篷。
The East-West Lake Fang Hospital is divided into A, B and C areas, each with a hatch and a tent in front of the hatch.
每个舱每次轮班，都会有5位医生和近20名护士进去穿戴防护用品。
Five doctors and nearly 20 nurses went in to wear protective gear on each shift in each cabin.
开舱之初，防护用品比较紧张，医护人员得适应不同规格的物资。
At the beginning of the opening, protective equipment was tight and medical staff had to adapt to different specifications of materials.
绿色医用N95口罩第一天就被用空，只剩下了不防喷溅的白色N95口罩。
The green N95 mask was empty on the first day, leaving only the sprayed white N95 mask.
再过几天，头挂式的口罩变为了耳挂式，像李昕这样耳朵比较软的人戴久了会脱落。
A few days later, the head-mounted mask into an ear-hanging type, like Li Xin's ears softer people wear long will fall off.
领队也急坏了，连夜联系一家乳制品企业拆了牛奶箱的提手，用提手两端勾住口罩带子固定。
Team leader is also anxious to contact a dairy enterprises overnight to dismantle the milk box handle, with the two ends of the handle hook mask belt fixed.
李昕第一次入舱时，帐篷还没有镜子。
Li Xin's tent did not have a mirror when he first came in.
她按照脑子里记住的步骤，依次戴上口罩、手术帽，穿上蓝色隔离服、白色防护服，再戴上护目镜、面屏，套上手套和脚套。
She put on a mask, a surgical cap, blue protective clothing, goggles, a face screen, gloves, and foot covers.
换口罩时，她怕交叉感染，跑到帐篷外头，在空旷处深吸一口气，再拿新的戴上。
When changing the mask, she was afraid of cross-infection, ran outside the tent, took a deep breath in the open and put on a new one.
没办法检查安全性，她也不敢进舱。
There was no way to check for safety, and she dared not go in.
幸亏一名曾经当过护士的志愿者过来，帮她整理碎发，检查口罩和护目镜的密闭情况。
Thankfully, a volunteer who had been a nurse came over to help her tidy up her hair and check the sealing of masks and goggles.
医护人员正在穿防护服。
The paramedics are wearing protective clothing.
其中一位的衣服上写着“春天来了”。
One of them had on her dress the words "Spring is here."
澎湃新闻记者 赵思维 图后来，这个帐篷设置了物资管理员。
Zhao Yintu, a Peng journalist, later set up a material manager in the tent.
有些女护士的耳后被口罩皮筋勒破皮，或是额头及鼻梁被护目镜压伤，能找管理员要“安普贴”。
Some female nurses have their ears ripped by a facial mask, or their forehead and nose are crushed by goggles. They can ask the administrator for an "Amp patch."
贴上这种水胶敷料，进舱后创口不会直接接触到汗水，不会感染。
With this kind of glue dressing, the wound will not come into direct contact with sweat and won't infect.
负责物资管理的护士尤俪雯记得，几乎每个要“安普贴”的人声音都很小，没什么底气，仿佛是讨要一种“奢侈品”。
The nurse in charge of material management, Midman recalls that almost everyone who wanted an 'Amp Stick' was muted and impotent, as if asking for a luxury.
能箍紧衣袖的外科手套、质量好的靴套、加大码的防护服，能领到的人都无比珍惜。
Surgical gloves with tight sleeves, high-quality boot jackets, and bulging protective clothing are treasured by those who receive them.
有次，一个女护士不小心把领来的N95口罩掉在了地上，盯着地上，半天没开口再要。
On one occasion, a nurse accidentally dropped her N95 mask and stared at the ground without asking for more.
尤俪雯再给了一个，对方连连说了好几声谢谢。
Slimming in particular gave another one, the other side repeatedly said thank you.
大约半小时后，互相在防护服上写好名字的医护人员相继入舱了。
About half an hour later, the paramedics who had written their names on each other's protective clothing arrived.
2战场穿过最后一道门，李昕进入她的战场。
The field of battle crossed the last gate and Li Xin entered her field of battle.
A舱满员后，同济大学附属东方医院援鄂医疗队被安排至B舱，和宁夏、广东、新疆等地的援鄂医疗队一起搭班。
After cabin A was full, the medical team attached to Oriental Hospital of Tongji University was arranged to go to Class B and join the medical teams of Hubei in Ningxia, Guangdong and Xinjiang.
李昕每班需要负责B舱B厅中的115个患者。
Lixin will be responsible for 115 patients per shift in B-class.
此外，她还要“包干”10位患者，不值班时也要用电话和微信问诊。
In addition, she had to "dry out" 10 patients, who were also treated by telephone and microphone when not on duty.
她此前经过的清洁区、潜在污染区、污染区由三个小房间充当。
The clean-up area, the potential contamination zone and the contaminated area she had passed through were three small rooms.
病毒会随对流的空气传播，所以房间只能单门开。
The virus travels with convective air, so the room can only open one door.
交班像是坐过山车，平稳地沟通病情一阵，又突然接到个棘手难题。
The shift was like a roller coaster, smooth communication for a while, then suddenly a thorny problem.
有患者的丈夫去世，一直哭嚎，上个值班医生会让她联系心理医生。
When her husband died and cried, the last doctor on duty asked her to contact a psychiatrist.
有患者狂躁地要求知道核酸检测结果，她也需要在查房时进行安抚。
Some patients manic to know the nucleic acid test results, she also needs to be in the room to pacify.
李昕（蓝衣者）在和上一班的医生交班。
Li Xin (Blue Shirt) is on shift with the doctor of the last class.
8点20分，李昕走到918病床前，开始查房。
At 8: 20, Li Xin walked to 918 beds and began to inspect the room.
确诊几天？现在哪里不舒服？核酸与CT做过几次了？药还够几天吃？同样的问题，李昕要问每个患者一遍，用纸笔记录下来。
A few days after the diagnosis? What's wrong now? How many times has Nucleic Acid and CT been done? How many days does the medicine last? Lixin will ask each patient for the same question and write it down in paper and pen.
病人都醒了，看见李昕，立马从床上坐起身。
The patient woke up and saw Li Xin sitting up in bed.
不管是发烧、腹泻、胸闷、缺药，还是口罩戴久了鼻腔发热、隔壁床打鼾影响睡眠，患者都会细细说给李昕。
Whether it be fever, diarrhea, chest tightness, lack of medicine, or a long nasal mask, snoring in the next bed affects sleep, patients will tell Li Xin in detail.
新冠肺炎没有特效药，大多时候，李昕做的多是采集病史和倾听宽慰。
New crown pneumonia has no specific medicine, most of the time, Lixin do is to collect medical history and listen to comfort.
“这个病毒比较诡异。
"The virus is weird.
”李昕了解到，很多患者都不清楚自己是被谁传染。
Li Xin understands that many patients do not know who infected them.
一名家庭主妇告诉她，自己出门买了瓶醋，印象中没跟任何人有一米内的亲密接触，回家就开始咳嗽了。
A housewife told her that she went out to buy a bottle of vinegar, the impression of no one within a meter of intimate contact with anyone, home began to cough.
作为从医16年的心内科医生，她发现，新冠肺炎患者的心率普遍升高。
As a cardiologist for 16 years, she found that heart rates generally increased in patients with new crown pneumonia.
她负责125个患者，其中有二十几位分别患高血压、糖尿病、冠心病患者，她可以作出针对性的诊治。
She is responsible for 125 patients, including more than 20 patients with hypertension, diabetes, coronary heart disease, she can make targeted diagnosis and treatment.
病床是由志愿者铺的，白色的床品变成了花花绿绿的。
The bed was made up of volunteers, and the white bedding became colorful.
穿过病床时，会有患者撩起床单，从自制的帘子探出头来。
As he crosses the hospital bed, the patient lifts the sheet and pokes his head out of a homemade curtain.
“不好意思医生，我这两天心跳特别快，稍微一动就到120怎么办？”一位年轻女孩忍不住“插队”。
"I'm sorry, Doctor. My heart is beating so fast these two days. What if I moved to 120?" A young girl couldn't resist "jumping in line."
“你有甲亢没有？”透过起雾的护目镜，李昕依稀看见女孩眼睛有点凸。
"Do you have hyperthyroidism?" Through the goggles of fog, Lixin faintly saw the girl's eyes slightly convex.
女孩称，自己患过甲亢，但已一年没有复查。
The girl said she had suffered from hyperthyroidism, but had not reviewed it for a year.
应激可能刺激甲亢复发，李昕建议她每天吃一片降低心率的药。
Stress may stimulate the recurrence of hyperthyroidism Li Xin advised her to take a pill to lower her heart rate every day.
女孩想吃几天缓解后停药，李昕连忙劝“千万别减，减了跳得更快，出院了，家里人团聚了再减，好不好？”刚查过的一个患者跑来，问她自己怎样才能出院。
The girl would like to take a few days to stop medicine, Li Xin quickly advised "not to reduce, the faster the jump, the family reunion and less, ok?" A patient just checked came and asked her how to get out of the hospital.
旁边几个病人也悄悄围了过来，都在等着李昕的回答。
Several patients nearby quietly gathered around, waiting for Li Xin's reply.
事实上，方舱的医疗设备是逐渐配齐的。
As a matter of fact, the medical equipment in the cabin is gradually complete.
最开始，舱内只有一台移动车载CT，一天最多能给30个患者拍片，而且舱内医生只能看到CT报告、无法调阅片子。
At first, there was only one mobile vehicle CT in the capsule, which could take up to 30 patients a day, and the cabin doctor could only see CT reports and could not see the film.
现在，CT增设了一台，医生可以对比片子判断病程。
Now, CT has added one, the doctor can compare the film to judge the course of illness.
抢救设施也从寥寥几个氧气瓶，变成了呼吸机、除颤仪、心电监护等齐全设备。
Rescue facilities from a few oxygen cylinders, into respirators, defibrillators, ECG monitoring and other complete equipment.
李昕解释，只有核酸检测显示阴性才能做CT。
Lixin explained that only negative nucleic acid test can do CT.
CT结果正常后，患者如果核酸检测再是阴性，病程和症状符合规定标准，才能出院。
After CT results are normal, the patient can be discharged only if the nucleic acid test is negative and the course and symptoms meet the prescribed criteria.
核酸检测会出现一定的假阴性率，有些患者前后两次结果常常一阴一阳。
Nucleic acid detection can appear certain false negative rate, some patients before and after two results often Yin Yang.
按照这套出院标准，患者得多些耐心才行。
According to this discharge standard, patients need to be more patient.
“这是现在临时搭建的医院，请你理解。
"This is a makeshift hospital. Please understand.
”李昕重复这句话。
Li Xin repeated this sentence.
3“历劫”在李昕的“作战规划”里，目前舱内约1400名患者赶紧出院，再收进来一批新的。
"Adventures" Li Xin's "combat planning", the current cabin about 1,400 patients hastened out of the hospital, and a new batch of incoming.
这样正常周转三遍，这个战役就差不多能胜利了。
With three normal rotations like this, the battle will almost be won.
穿着密不透风的防护服，李昕在开着24℃暖气的舱里不停地走，一身大汗。
Dressed in an impermeable suit, Li Xin walked continuously in his 24-degree heating cabin, sweating profusely.
不断有床位靠后的患者等着急了跑来等着，或者前头查过的患者过来催药。
The patient with a bed in the back was waiting impatiently, or the patient who had been examined earlier came to call for medicine.
有的患者去办公室找不到她，凶完护士又焦急地过来催问结果。
Some patients go to the office to find her, the end of the nurse anxiously came to ask for the results.
戴着口罩说话声音闷着很难被听清，有患者喜欢凑到李昕耳边说话。
Wearing a mask to talk muffled voice is difficult to hear clearly, some patients like to listen to Lixin ear.
靠太近有感染风险，李昕拉开距离，被防护服裹着大声说话。
Close to the risk of infection Li Xin opened the distance and was wrapped in protective clothing to speak loudly.
嘴越来越干，不停说话时唇部皮肤有拉扯感。
The mouth is drier and drier, and the skin on your lips feels pulled as you speak.
口罩和护目镜压住鼻子，用嘴呼吸一口，连口腔都变得干燥。
Masks and goggles press down on your nose, breathe in through your mouth, and dry your mouth.
满身的装备像是枷锁。
Full of equipment like shackles.
头戴式口罩的皮筋没有拉到头顶，边走边往下滑，她也没法用手触碰，只能保持头部僵直。
Wearing a mask, the skin did not pull the top of the head, while sliding, she can not touch with her hands, can only keep the head rigid.
护目镜太紧，勒得有些大脑缺氧。
The goggles were too tight and the brain was suffering from hypoxia.
流鼻涕也不能擦，挂不住了再吸一下。
A runny nose won't wipe. You can't hang on to it again.
憋尿是常有的事。
It's common to have urine.
有的护士甚至会因为憋尿太久而尿血。
Some nurses even urinate because they can't take too long.
身边有患者和其他医护，即使穿着尿不湿，李昕也不好意思尿，怕防护服破掉，也不太敢做蹲下的动作。
There are patients and other medical care, even if wearing urine not wet, Lixin is also embarrassed to urinate, afraid of wearing a broken suit, also dare not squat down.
实在憋不住，李昕会在路过隔板时站定尿一次。
I can't help but take a pee when I pass the separator.
遇上生理期，女性医护人员“像是历劫”。
Meet physiology period, female medical personnel is "like plunder".
经血不受控地流到卫生巾上，平常3至4小时能更换一次，进方舱前后近10个小时，血又漏到安心裤上。
Uncontrolled flow of menstrual blood to sanitary towels, usually three to four hours can be replaced, into the cabin before and after nearly 10 hours, the blood leakage to the reassuring pants.
走起路来，像是穿了一条黏糊糊的血裤。
Walking, like wearing a slimy blood pants.
不停把药发到患者手里，处理医嘱，给患者办入院和出院手续，记录患者没洗发水等琐碎问题……护士有时比医生还要忙碌。
Sending medication to patients, dealing with doctors' orders, getting patients hospitalized and discharged, keeping track of trivial problems such as patients not having shampoo... nurses are sometimes busier than doctors.
不吃不喝体力不支，再加上痛经，曾有生理期的护士晕倒在舱内。
Do not eat physical support, plus dysmenorrhea, there has been a physiological period of nurses fainted in the cabin.
3小时后，等最后一个病床的患者说完“谢谢李医生”后，李昕回办公室坐下开临时医嘱。
Three hours later, after the last patient had finished saying "Thank you, Dr. Li," Li Xin returned to his office and sat down to give a temporary medical order.
护目镜起雾，涂了沐浴液、碘伏消毒液也撑不了多久，只能360度转头寻找没有雾的角落。
Goggles fog, painted bath solution, iodovoltaic disinfectant will not last long, can only 360 degrees turn around to find no fog corner.
看电脑屏幕更是让人眼睛发晕。
Watching a computer screen can make your eyes dizzy.
李昕把查房收集的开药、开检查、身体不适等情况录入。
Li Xin will check the room to collect the medicine, open the examination, the body discomfort and other conditions input.
手指戴着两层手套，汗水黏糊糊的，打字成了很痛苦的事。
The fingers were wearing two layers of gloves, and the sweat was sticky and the typing was painful.
查房的李昕。
Li Xin in the room.
查房时不在的患者会过来补充情况。
Patients who are not present at the time of the house search will come to supplement the information.
还有许多患者喜欢溜达，路过一次办公桌就催问李昕一次检验结果。
Many patients like to stroll, passing a desk on the Xin asked Li Xin test results.
护士会带着患者做呼吸操，分散他们注意力，被“解救”的李昕就抓紧时间敲医嘱。
Nurse will take the patient to do breathing exercises, distracted by the "rescued" Li Xin on time to ask for medical advice.
李昕（蓝衣者）在电脑上敲医嘱。
Li Xin (Blue Shirt) tapped the doctor on the computer.
桌上摆着一瓶给病人喝的水。
On the table was a bottle of water for the sick.
李昕自嘲“我们眼里只有酒精，没有水”。
Lixin mocked itself that "we have only alcohol in our eyes and no water."
有次，一位患者站在办公室门口，远远地叫她“李医生”。
Once, a patient stood at the door of the office and called her "Dr. Li" from a distance.
那个阿姨的亲人都在隔离，只剩两个85岁以上的老人待在家中。
The aunt's relatives were in isolation, leaving only two elderly people over 85 at home.
因为胰岛素笔里的笔芯只够两天的量，实在没办法才找她求助。
There was no way to turn to her for help because the insulin pen had only two days' supply of pencils.
怕传染病毒给她，宁愿隔着距离大声说话。
Afraid of infectious disease virus to her, would rather speak loudly across the distance.
“她是没办法才会来找我的。
"She couldn't help coming to me.
所以我一定要尽全力帮她。
So I must do my best to help her.
”李昕的母亲也患有糖尿病，没有胰岛素会酮症酸中毒。
Lixin's mother also suffers from diabetes and does not suffer from insulin-induced ketoacidosis.
临行前，她让母亲储备了几个月的药物才放心离开。
Before she left, she left her mother with a few months' supply of medicine.
方舱医院糖尿病人不多，她问遍整个方舱的医疗队，打电话给药物调度员，经过两天，给阿姨找到了配对的笔芯。
Fang cabin hospital diabetic people are not many, she asked the entire cabin medical team, called the drug dispatcher, after two days, aunt found a pair of cores.
后来，她将阿姨转到了定点医院。
Later, she transferred her aunt to the designated hospital.
“恭喜你，可以出院了。
"Congratulations, I'm leaving the hospital.
”将近11点，方舱广播里响起5个人的名字。
Towards eleven o'clock the names of five men sounded in the cabin broadcast.
所有患者一起鼓掌。
All the patients clapped together.
李昕听到里面有个她负责病区的患者，托护士让那位女患者等她把出院小结送过去再走。
Li Xin heard that there was a patient in charge of the sick area and asked the nurse to wait for her to send the discharge summary.
等她再去时，病床上只剩下女患者的棕色羽绒衣。
When she returned, the bed was left with the brown down jacket of the woman.
“简直是拔腿就跑。
"Just run away.
”李昕乐得像打了胜仗的将军。
Li Xin was as happy as a general who had won the battle.
4突发计划外的情况随时出现。
4. Unforeseen events occur at any time.
方舱的深夜不熄灯，明亮如白昼。
The cabins did not turn off their lights at night, as bright as day.
李昕第一次值班那天，社区凌晨还在往方舱送病人。
Li Xin's first duty day, the community in the early morning to see off patients.
方舱医院临时决定，先让所有患者进舱睡觉，第二天再补办住院手续和开医嘱。
The hospital temporarily decided to let all patients into the cabin to sleep, the next day to re-inpatient procedures and prescription.
李昕所在的A厅离通道最近，患者进门就躺上空床，不到一小时，她所负责的区域一下就住进了180多位患者。
Lixin's A hall is closest to the passageway, and the patient lies on the bed above the door.
凌晨2点35分，一名A舱A厅24床的患者突然呼吸困难，血氧饱和度降到89%。
At 2.35 a.m., a 24-bed patient in cabin A suddenly had difficulty breathing, and the oxygen saturation decreased to 89 per cent.
李昕急得后背冒冷汗。
Li Xin sweats in his back.
办公室墙上的联系电话，她一个个打过去，转诊电话忙音，终于打通了调度电话，但对方又说晚上无法转诊病人。
Phone calls to the office wall, one after another, a referral call, and finally a dispatch call, but the caller said she could not refer the patient at night.
再跑回患者床前，他已经喘得厉害，无法躺平了。
He ran back to the patient's bed. He was gasping so hard that he could not lie down.
“没法抢救啊。
There is no way to save it.
”李昕回忆，当时舱内没有氧气瓶和呼吸机，万一患者不行，只能靠心肺复苏。
Lixin recalled that there were no oxygen cylinders or respirators in the cabin and that, in case the patient could not, only cardiopulmonary resuscitation was necessary.
她站在那，像个没有子弹的士兵。
She stood there like a soldier without bullets.
一位夜间巡回的护士长“救”了她。
A nocturnal matron "saved" her.
一个100多斤的蓝色氧气瓶，被护士长从舱外的抢救室一路滚来患者床前。
A blue oxygen cylinder of more than 100 kilos was rolled by the matron from the rescue room outside the cabin to the patient's bed.
等到3点半，两人终于给患者吸上了氧。
At 3: 30, the two finally got oxygen for the patient.
半个小时后，患者的血氧饱和度升到94%，李昕才松了口气。
After half an hour, the patient's blood oxygen saturation rose to 94%, Li Xin was relieved.
紧接着，36床的患者体温升至39.9℃，李昕又回到紧绷状态。
Immediately afterwards, the temperature of the 36-bed patient rose to 39.9 degrees Celsius, Li Xin returned to a tense state.
当时许多药物还无法及时拿到，只能进行物理降温，拿冷毛巾敷在患者额头上。
Many medicines were not available in time, but had to be physically cooled and cold towels applied to the patient's forehead.
李昕守着，等到这位22岁的患者体温降下来再离开。
Li Xinsheng waited until the 22-year-old patient's temperature dropped before leaving.
喊声、哭声也是一种警报。
Shouts and cries are also a kind of alarm.
曾有位感染新冠肺炎的精神科医生，在病房激动地喊叫。
There was a psychiatrist with pneumonia in the ward, shouting excitedly.
见到她和另外两位医生，那个男人“扑通”一声给他们跪下，甩出两本医生证件，说自己没有发热但测出核酸阳性，哭诉自己没病，请求出舱。
Seeing her and the other two doctors, the man plopped them on his knees, shook out two medical certificates, said he was not feverish but tested positive for nucleic acids, and cried that he was not ill and asked to leave the cabin.
随后两天，尽管他仍然觉得自己没有感染新冠肺炎，但也逐渐接受了舱内的生活。
For the next two days, though he still didn't feel infected with pneumonia, he gradually accepted the life inside.
一个失去丈夫的女人晚上突然哭起来。
A woman who had lost her husband burst into tears at night.
李昕到时，女人头发乱作一团，泪水滴到口罩里。
When Li Xin arrived, the woman's hair was in a mess, tears dripping into the mask.
病友递给她纸巾，女人也不伸手接。
The patient handed her a tissue and the woman did not reach for it.
李昕问她喝不喝水，也不理人。
Li Xin asked her whether she would drink water or ignore people.
“想哭就哭吧。
"Cry as you like.
”李昕杵在那，听女人哭喊。
Li Xin pestle there, listening to women cry.
丈夫患重症新冠肺炎，就在对面的金银潭医院离世，人走了，她连最后一面也没见上。
Her husband was suffering from severe Newcastle pneumonia and died at the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital across the street. She was gone. She had never seen her last face.
20分钟后，女人哭累了，把头蒙到被子里，露出一只眼睛。
After 20 minutes, the woman cried tired and put her head under the covers, revealing one of her eyes.
看女人闭上眼，李昕走开了。
Seeing the woman close her eyes Li Xin walked away.
到了后半夜，她蹑手蹑脚再去时，女人已是一副熟睡的样子。
When she crept back in the middle of the night, the woman was asleep.
等第二天心理医生冯强进舱询问，女人对他哭泣，但已经不承认丈夫去世了。
When Feng Qiang, the psychiatrist, asked the next day, the woman wept over him, but did not admit that her husband had died.
方舱外的日落时分。
Sunset outside the cabin.
慌忙之中，李昕的鞋套在舱内掉过一次。
In a hurry, Li Xin's shoe sleeve fell in the cabin once.
这种“瞬时裸奔”的情况可能是致命的。
This "fleeting streak" scenario can be fatal.
她站在原地不敢再走，一个宁夏的护士看到了，赶快去办公室给她拿来酒精紧急消毒，找了个医用垃圾袋套上应急。
She stood where she did not dare to go, a nurse in Ningxia saw, hurry to the office to bring her an emergency disinfection of alcohol, found a medical garbage bag on the emergency.
脱防护服比穿要更严谨，这是所有人的共识。
It is the consensus of all that it is more rigorous to remove protective clothing than to wear it.
出舱的医务人员通道分为缓冲区、一脱间、二脱间和三脱区。
There are buffer zone, sublevel, sublevel and triple escape zone for the medical staff.
两个安保人员守在出舱口，每次只能放两个人。
Two security officers were at the exit, only two at a time.
有次来接班的医生找不到鞋套迟来了，李昕在集中出舱的护士后面排队，等了两个多小时。
After Li Xin lined up behind the nurses who had been bundled out, waiting for more than two hours.
缓冲区没有灯，漆黑一片，为了防止气溶胶传播病毒，要站定一刻钟才能进入一脱间。
Buffer zone without lights, dark, to prevent aerosol transmission of the virus, to stand for a quarter of an hour to get into a cutoff.
动作要轻缓，步骤顺序错了，危险就会到来。
Move slowly, step by step in the wrong order, and danger will set in.
放医疗废物的垃圾桶堆满了，多的垃圾堆得人高。
The garbage cans are full of clinical waste, and there is a lot of rubbish piled high.
靠近时，李昕只能屏息。
Li Xin could only hold his breath as it approached.
遇上手部消毒液、口罩被拿完的情况，人相当于被“卡住”，既不能退回污染更重的区域，也不能把病毒带到清洁区。
When you run out of hand sanitizers and masks, people are "stuck," unable to return to more contaminated areas or to clean up areas.
印象最深刻的那次，李昕站在那，等了半小时管理员才把外科口罩拿来。
The most impressive one, Lixin stood there and waited half an hour for the administrator to bring the surgical mask.
三脱区的门是敞开的，风灌进来，已经脱掉防护服的她冷得打哆嗦。
The door of the escape zone was open, and the wind came in, shivering with cold as she had taken off her protective clothing.
5喘息重压之下，李昕偶尔也会与舱内的工作者聊天，在舱外放松。
Under the panting pressure, Li Xin would occasionally chat with the workers in the cabin and relax outside.
夜班时，患者大部分都睡了。
Most of the patients went to sleep during the night shift.
没有暖气的那几天，李昕挨着电暖炉，坐在凳子上稍微打个盹。
On days when there was no heating, Lixin sat on the stool next to the electric heater for a short nap.
武汉下雪那天，同事在群里说“寒流来了记得添衣”。
Wuhan snow day, colleagues in the group said that "cold flow came to remember to add clothes."
李昕穿上保暖内衣，但舱内暖气调高了温度，热得她全身汗湿，“感觉都要人间蒸发了”。
Li Xin put on warm underwear, but the cabin heating turned up the temperature, hot all over her body sweaty, "feel like people evaporate."
她从患者通道往舱外走，去透个风。
She walked out of the patient's aisle to take a breath.
出门左边是厕所，右边是洗漱台，中间是露天的走道。
To the left is the toilet, to the right is the lavatory and in the middle is the open walkway.
夜里人很少，两个男清洁工看见她，帮她搬了把椅子。
There were few people at night, and two male cleaners saw her and helped her carry a chair.
“你现在燥热，别说话，坐下来。
"You're hot, don't talk. Sit down.
”两人看见李昕身上写着“湖北媳妇”，跟她拉了些家常，说了声“谢谢你来武汉帮忙”就走了。
The two men saw Li Xin with the words "Hubei daughter-in-law," pulled some home with her, said "thank you for coming to Wuhan to help" and left.
黄微1990年出生，是武汉市东西湖区城市管理执法局的一名清洁工。
Huang Wei was born in 1990 and is a dustman of the city administration law enforcement bureau in Wuhan.
为了不让排泄物漫出，他每天要和同事工作4个多小时，清理10到12吨的排泄物。
He works more than four hours a day with co-workers to clean up 10 to 12 tons of excreta to keep excrement from escaping.
“粪便的味道穿过口罩直刺鼻喉，口罩似乎还放大了这浓烈的气味，只叫人恶心想吐。
"The smell of faeces pierced the nose and throat of the mask, and the mask seemed to amplify the strong smell, making people nauseous and nauseous.
” 黄微忍受着这种“永生不忘”的味道，在防护服的束缚下消毒、抬水管、吸粪。
Huang endured the taste of immortality, disinfecting, lifting pipes and sucking up dung under the yoke of protective clothing.
防护服并不防水，可冲厕所、消毒都要跟水打交道。
Protective clothing is not waterproof, you can flush toilets, disinfect all have to deal with water.
吸粪时也会有尿液溅到身上。
You can also get urine spilling into your body when you inhale.
尽管听说病毒可能通过粪口传播，但黄微觉得，也没必要太过害怕或者计较这些事情，“医生都勇敢冲在前面呢”。
Although the virus may be transmitted through the mouth, but yellow micro-feel that there is no need to be too afraid or care about these things, "doctors are brave to go ahead."
从舱外回来，李昕到处转转，偶尔会看见守着进出通道的安保蹲靠着墙打盹。
Returning from the cabin, Li Xin wandered about, occasionally seeing guards crouching against the wall to doze.
曹怀应属于因“封城”回不了家的人。
Cao Huai should belong to the people who could not return home due to "closure."
看到方舱医院招募安保的信息，35岁的他和同事从公司宿舍来这里报了名。
Seeing information about security recruitment at Fang Ngau Hospital, he and his colleagues, 35, arrived from the company's dorm room to sign up.
“就像在家里面一样，反正有你忙不完的事。
"It's like being at home, because you can't finish your work anyway.
”6个小时的值班时间里，曹怀应有时运送物资，坐岗守门，无聊了就去给饮水机更换桶装水。
During the six-hour shift, Cao should sometimes transport supplies, sit on guard doors and, when bored, replace buckets of water for the water cooler.
一个患者因为看不惯另一个患者往埋着电线的沟里倒水，吵了起来。
A patient had a fight because he couldn't stand another patient pouring water into a trench with a buried wire.
旁边劝架的人喊“四面八方的人来支援我们，再吵要丢武汉的脸啦！”他看见了，赶忙把两人拉回自己床位。
The man next to him shouted, "People are coming from all directions to support us and make a scene in Wuhan again!" He saw this and pulled the two of them back to their beds.
方言是最困扰他的事情。
Dialects were the thing that most troubled him.
方舱里头老人多，有次，一位老太太向他要家属送过来的东西，可他并没有收到。
There were many old people in the cabin. Once an old woman asked him for something from her family, but he did not receive it.
老太太听不懂他的普通话，说着一口方言，跟在他后头嘀咕了半小时才离开。
The old lady could not understand his Mandarin, spoke a dialect and mumbled after him for half an hour before she left.
大多数，曹怀应都会收到一句“谢谢，辛苦了”，觉得自己来做志愿者也不算白来，“最起码别人知道你辛苦，知道你累”。
Most, Cao Huai Ying will receive a "thank you, hard", feel oneself to be a volunteer is not free, "at least others know you hard, know you tired."
对于李昕来讲，累着从舱里出去是件令人愉悦的事情。
It was pleasant for Li Xin to get out of the cabin tired.
外面的空气无比清新，回到酒店摘下口罩，一口气喝下出门时剩下的半瓶可乐。
The air outside is very fresh, go back to the hotel to take off the mask, sip off the remaining bottles of Coke.
那一瞬，她觉得健康活着的感觉真好。
For a moment, she felt it good to be healthy and alive.
不用值班的时间，她会写一些工作心得，写累了就在房间里跳郑多燕的减肥操。
Not on duty time, she will write some work experience, tired on the room to dance Zheng Douyan's weight loss exercise.
看着酒店下的篮球场，想象在那跑上一圈的滋味。
Look at the basketball court under the hotel and imagine running around there.
有的护士在隔壁跳舞，发抖音视频给她看。
Some of the nurses danced next door and showed her a shivering video.
房门是开着的，大家可以站在自己房门口戴着口罩聊天。
The door is open, people can stand in their own door wearing masks to chat.
从酒店窗户往外看，足球场和篮球场显得格外“诱人”。
Seen from the hotel window, the football and basketball courts are particularly "seductive."
第一天刚到武汉的时候，李昕因为前一天还在上班，来不及回家收拾行李，只拿了医疗队发的箱子。
The first day just arrived in Wuhan, Li Xin because the previous day is still at work, too late to go home to pack, only to take the medical team sent boxes.
陆陆续续地，社会捐赠的物资越来越多，李昕的房间里多了指甲剪、饼干蛋糕、洗发水、卫生巾、热水袋。
Gradually, the society donated more and more materials, Li Xin's room more nail clipping, biscuit cake, shampoo, sanitary towel, hot water bag.
“家里吃的用的挺齐全了，感觉我可以跟对面小卖部老板PK一下。
"At home with a complete set of food, I feel I can with the opposite shop owner PK.
”李昕说。
"said Li Xin.
她最忧心的还是女儿的学习。
Her biggest worry was her daughter's studies.
在她看来，四年级是个分水岭。
In her view, the fourth grade was a watershed.
班级群里，许多没有外出工作的家长都发了辅导督促孩子学习的时间表。
In the class, many parents who do not work outside the home send out tutoring schedules to urge their children to learn.
“人家在家放假三个月了，天天有人有专门盯着学习，我就觉得我女儿输了，落下了好多。
"People have been away from home for three months, every day there is a special focus on learning, I think my daughter lost, fell a lot.
”家里老人管不住孩子，老公刚从外地回来正在隔离。
The old man could not manage the children, and his husband had just returned from the field, isolated.
夜深人静时，她成了一个普通家长，在焦虑中睡去。
In the dead of night, she became an ordinary parent, sleeping in anxiety.
再次醒来的时间仍是不固定的。
The time of waking up again is still fluid.
肯定的是，醒来之后，她又要再次抵达方舱。
To be sure, when she woke up, she wanted to reach the cabin again.
元宵节那天，父亲给李昕发了一张他和李昕女儿的照片。
On the Lantern Festival, his father sent Li Xinfei a picture of himself and Li Xin's daughter.
戳这里进入“全国新型冠状病毒感染病例实时地图”↓↓↓本期编辑 周玉华推荐阅读。
Poke here into a "National Real-Time Map of Cases of Coronavirus Infection," Dou Chou, editor of this issue, recommended reading.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一线女医生“抗战”：遇上生理期像是历劫。
First-line female doctors "resistance": encounter physiological period like robbery.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "一线女医生“抗战”：遇上生理期像是历劫";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "她最忧心的还是女儿的学习";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; her daughter's study & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '湖北：监狱、看守所原则上只进不出',。
Hubei: Not at all in prison or detention centre.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '一名空乘确诊，5名复工人员被隔离',。
A flight attendant was diagnosed and five reinstated workers were quarantined with service.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '3省5个监狱共确诊555例，司法部谈疫情细节漏洞',。
Ritle: & apos; 555 cases were diagnosed in five prisons in three provinces. & nbsp; & # 160; & # 45; & Justice & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
