武汉一线社区医生：想变成“千手观音”。
Wuhan first-line community doctor: want to become a "thousand hands Guanyin".
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻记者 薛莎莎早上6点多，黄杨娟起床进行房间消毒。
Xue Sha Sha of Peng Pai news reporter more than 6 am, Huang Yang Juan got up to disinfect the room.
7点多，她开始整理所负责隔离点居民的健康数据，随后出门开始一天的工作。
At more than 7: 00, she began to collate the health data of the residents of the quarantined area, then set out for a day's work.
分发居民的一日三餐和生活用品；一早一晚两次查房，统计健康状况；解答微信群中居民提出的问题；组织居民做核酸检测；与街道办、疾控中心、消杀团队对接工作……黄杨娟忙起来，时间总过得很快。
Distribute daily meals and daily necessities to residents; check the health status twice a night; answer questions from the residents of the microphone group; organize the residents to do nucleic acid testing; and work with the street office, CDC, the elimination team... Huang Yang Juan busy up, time always very fast.
晚上，一切都安定下来，居民们渐入梦乡，黄杨娟开始梳理新冠肺炎病毒核酸双阴（两次检测均是阴性）表格。
At night, everything settled down, residents fell asleep, and Huang Yang Juan began combing the Nucleic Acid Twin (both tests negative) form.
她忙完所有工作，已是深夜。
She was busy with all her work. It was late at night.
黄杨娟在查房，询问居民身体情况，做好登记。
Huang Yang Juan in the house, inquire residents physical condition, do a good job of registration.
本文图片均由受访者供图“疫情让我们爆发出平时不敢想象的能量。
This picture is provided by the interviewee. "The epidemic has caused us to erupt into energy that we normally would not have imagined.
”黄杨娟是武汉市普仁江岸医院新村街社区卫生服务中心的一名主任，2月29日晚，她忙完工作，才有时间和澎湃新闻（www.thepaper.cn）记者对话。
Huang Yang-juan, a director of the Xincun Street Community Health Service Center at the Puren River Bank Hospital in Wuhan, was too busy working on the evening of February 29 to have time to talk to journalists about the roaring news (www.thepper.cn).
疫情发生以来，她带领中心30多位员工，逐步开展分诊看诊、提供电话咨询服务、上门家访、给孤寡老人送药、负责隔离点的医疗服务等工作。
Since the outbreak, she has led more than 30 staff at the centre, gradually opening outpatient consultations, providing telephone counselling services, home visits, delivering medicines to widowed elderly people and providing medical services in isolated locations.
在黄杨娟看来，抗疫初期，病人太多，床位太少，工作慌乱无序。
Huang Yang Juan in the early stage of the disease, too many patients, too few beds, work panic disorder.
随着火神山、雷神山和方舱医院建成，各地医疗队入驻，病人能住院，各方面工作才逐渐步入正轨。
With the completion of the Mount of Fire, Raytheon Mountain and the Fangkang Hospital, medical teams from all over the world have been stationed and patients can be hospitalized.
已奋战一线近40天的黄杨娟，最大的感触是，见证了这一切：抗疫工作从慌乱到有序，又从有序到进一步优化流程、效率提高。
Huang Yang Juan, who has been on the frontline for nearly 40 days, has witnessed all this: from confusion to order, but also from order to further optimize the process, efficiency.
她期待疫情消散，到那时，她想去武汉东湖公园的绿道上放心呼吸、尽情奔跑。
She expects the outbreak to dissipate and by then, she wants to breathe and run freely on the green road in Wuhan East Lake Park.
黄杨娟和同事。
Huang Yang Juan and her colleagues.
黄杨娟的口述“想变成‘千手观音’”“封城”这一天，对我和我的团队而言，是抗疫战打响的第一天。
Huang Yangjuan's oral "want to become a thousand hands Guanyin '" "closure" this day, for me and my team, is the first day of the anti-epidemic war.
1月23日，我们被街道办工作人员叫去参加临时召开的紧急会议。
On January 23, we were called by street workers to attend an emergency meeting.
会上，我们接到任务：社区医院承担辖区内发热居民的分诊工作。
At the meeting, we received the task: the community hospital to assume the district heating resident's subdivision work.
一方面，我们要对发热病人进行分类分流，如果是普通发热病人，就进行常规治疗，如果是疑似新冠肺炎病人，就引导其去定点医院的发热门诊治疗。
On the one hand, we need to separate the febrile patients, in the case of common fever patients, for routine treatment, and in the case of suspected patients with new crown pneumonia, to be referred to a point hospital for fever outpatient treatment.
此外，我们还要成立“电话咨询团队”，为居民提供线上医疗服务。
In addition, we will set up a "telephone advisory team" to provide online medical services to residents.
我们突然被推上一线，压力来了，伴随而来的还有恐慌、焦虑的情绪。
We were suddenly pushed to the front line, and the stress came, with panic and anxiety.
“封城”当天，医院涌进很多病人。
The hospital was flooded with patients that day.
我们接诊分诊，忙个不停，不仅如此，我的电话也快被打爆了，我一天接了90多个电话。
Not only were we busy, but my phone was about to explode. I answered more than 90 calls a day.
我一边在门诊忙活着，一边还要接电话，有时实在忙不过来，我旁边的其他医护人员帮我接电话。
While I was busy at the clinic, I had to answer the phone. Sometimes I was too busy. The other paramedics next to me answered the phone.
忙得焦头烂额的时候，我好想把自己变成“千手观音”。
When I'm too busy, I really want to turn myself into a "thousand hands."
打电话咨询的居民有三类。
There are three categories of residents consulted by telephone.
一类是自己或家人发热，不知道该怎么办。
One kind is oneself or the family feverish, do not know how to do.
对于这类病人，我会先了解病情，然后引导其来社区医院查血常规，判断是否为疑似感染者。
For such patients, I will first understand the disease, and then guide them to the community hospital to check blood routines, to determine whether the suspected infected.
第二类是已经确诊感染新冠肺炎、但没有医院收治的病人，这也是最让我感到无力的人群。
The second group of patients has been diagnosed with pneumonia, but no hospital treatment, this is the most weak people I feel.
那时，火神山、雷神山、方舱医院都还未建成，病人们在定点发热门诊排队到凌晨都等不来一个床位。
At that time, the Mount of Fire, Raytheon Mountain, and the Fangkang Hospital were not built, and patients queued up at the sentinel fever clinic until the wee hours without waiting for a bed.
对于这类人群中的轻症患者，我会根据病人的病情，教他们对症用药、居家治疗。
For patients with mild illness in this group, I will teach them symptomatic medicine, home treatment according to the patient's illness.
对于重症患者，我只能联系卫生部门和街道办工作人员，让他们安排车辆把他们送到定点医院。
For the seriously ill, I had to contact the health authorities and street workers and ask them to arrange for a vehicle to take them to the designated hospital.
但卫生部门和街道办也无法一下子“变”出床位来。
But health departments and street offices cannot "change" their beds all at once.
第三类是有其他医疗需求的居民，比如，有孤寡老人的药用完了，但年纪太大无法出门；有老人尿管脱落。
In the third category are residents with other medical needs, such as elderly persons who have run out of medicines but are too old to go out; there are elderly persons who have lost their urinary tubes.
对于这类情况，我们会安排医护人员上门服务。
In such cases, medical staff will be provided with on-site services.
黄杨娟和同事。
Huang Yang Juan and her colleagues.
我记得很清楚，有一位居民连着四天给我打电话，说她丈夫已经确诊，跑遍武汉市所有定点医院，都没有床位，她一边说一边哭，哭得我实在心酸。
I remember one resident who called me for four days and told me that her husband had been diagnosed and that she had no beds in all the designated hospitals in Wuhan.
我们也遇到一些“撒泼打滚”的家属。
We also met some families who were "throwing and rolling."
有一次，一位家属把妻子带到社区医院，坐在地上，对着医护人员骂骂咧咧。
On one occasion, a family member took his wife to a community hospital and sat on the floor, swearing at the paramedics.
我听了大致情况，原来是他妻子已基本确诊，但无医院收治，没办法了想来我们这里输液。
I listened to the general situation, it turned out that his wife has been basically diagnosed, but there is no hospital treatment, there is no way to want us here infusion.
按照规定，这类病人要到定点医院治疗，如果我收了他妻子，随时有感染医护人员和周边居民的风险。
As a rule, such patients go to designated hospitals for treatment, and if I take his wife, there is a constant risk of infecting medical staff and the surrounding population.
这位家属坐在医院门口，挡住其他病人就诊的通道。
The family sat in front of the hospital, blocking access to other patients.
我好说歹说，给他们讲解武汉现行的相关政策，提醒他所戴的口罩防护不够，送了他几只口罩，引导他去定点医院。
I told them about Wuhan's current policy, reminded him of the inadequacy of the mask he was wearing, gave him a few masks and directed him to a hospital.
最后，我把手机号码留给他。
Finally, I left him my cell phone number.
最终，他被我成功劝导。
In the end, he was successfully persuaded by me.
病人和家属都是通情理的，他们只是太无助，我理解他们。
Patients and their families are reasonable, they are just too helpless, and I understand them.
那段时间，我总是尽力多方打听、及时关注最新的定点医院名单，关注火神山、雷神山医院开放时间，好及时通知他们。
At that time, I always try to make a lot of inquiries, timely attention to the latest list of designated hospitals, pay attention to the fire god mountain, Lei Shenshan hospital opening hours, so as to inform them in time.
抗疫初期，病人太多，床位太少，那段时间可以称得上是“兵荒马乱”，回想起来不禁觉得可怕。
In the early days of the epidemic, when there were too many patients and too few beds, it was a time of "war and disorder," and it was frightening to think of it.
医院里，除了怀孕、年纪大的医护人员，其他的员工都取消休假回来工作，但我们依然处于连轴转的状态。
At the hospital, all the employees except the pregnant, the elderly, and the rest of the staff came back from vacation, but we were still in a state of constant rotation.
医护人员身体上的累都不算什么，一开始的心累、心酸又无助，才最困扰我们。
The physical fatigue of medical staff is nothing, at the beginning of the heart tired, sad and helpless, it is the most disturbing.
当时，我一直盼着在建的医院快点建起来。
At that time, I was looking forward to the construction of the hospital soon.
火神山医院开放时，我看到转运病人的视频，瞬间热泪盈眶，我太感动了，心想着许多病人终于能住上院了！“病人能住院，也就安心了”这次疫情，对武汉来说，可谓是“大考”。
When the hospital opened, I saw videos of patients in transit, and tears welled up in my eyes. I was so moved that many patients could finally live in the Upper House!
为了打好抗疫战，官方开始建医院、设床位。
In order to prepare for the war against epidemics, officials began to build hospitals and beds.
各地的援助医疗队也一批一批进驻武汉各医院。
Aid medical teams from all over the world are also stationed in Wuhan hospitals in batches.
观察密切接触者，阻断潜在传染源，也是抗疫工作中的关键一环。
Observation of close contacts to block potential sources of infection is also a key part of the fight against the epidemic.
武汉实行“四包一”政策，由一位民警、一位网格员、一位社区工作者、一位社区医院工作者组成“家访队”，对密切接触者上门家访，询问健康状况，并且登记成表。
Wuhan implements the policy of "four packs one," consisting of a police officer, a grid worker, a community worker and a community hospital worker.
那时，社区医院的防护装备很紧缺。
At that time, there was a shortage of protective equipment for community hospitals.
有时，在没有防护装备的情况下，我戴上两层口罩，穿上白大褂，就和其他工作人员上门家访了。
Sometimes, without protective equipment, I put on a two-layer mask and put on a white coat, and went home with other staff.
一次，我家访完回到医院，院长吓了一跳说，“没有防护服都敢去家访，感染了可怎么办？”说实话，我想不了那么多，我是医生，这是职责所在，我也是主任，任务来了，难道能不做吗？其实我也害怕，但是没办法，疫情那么严重，就是害怕也要上。
Once, when I returned to the hospital after my home visit, the dean started and said, "I dare to visit my home without protective clothing and get infected?" To be honest, I can't think of that much, I'm a doctor, it's my duty, I'm the director.
疫情让我们都爆发出了以前不敢想象的能量。
The outbreak has caused us all to erupt in energies previously unthinkable.
团队里年轻医生和小护士们，也都很勇敢，工作起来没有任何怨言。
The young doctors and nurses on the team were also brave enough to work without any complaints.
好在，抗疫战打响没多久，我就明显感觉到情况好转了。
Fortunately, soon after the outbreak of the war, I clearly felt that the situation had improved.
自1月27日，我接到的居民咨询来电就开始减少，从一天90多个，减到50多个，再减到20多个。
Since January 27, the number of calls I received from residents has declined from more than 90 a day to more than 50 and more than 20.
工作中，我和同事常常总结，把工作逐渐流程化、区块化。
In the work, my colleagues and I often conclude that the work gradually streamline, block.
我们在分诊台设置“三道坎”。
We set up three bars at the dispensary.
第一道是健康门诊的宣教和筛查，医护人员把肺部有感染、核酸检测阳性、高度疑似病人筛查出来，交由街道办人员带至定点医院治疗。
The first course is the health clinic education and screening, the staff of the lung infection, nucleic acid test positive, highly suspect patients screened out, to be taken to the street office to the designated hospital for treatment.
第二道是对于轻症暂未确诊的病人，我们引导其到指定的社区医院留观。
The second way is for patients with mild cases that have not yet been diagnosed, we guide them to designated community hospitals for observation.
第三道是没有做过任何检查的人群，可先在我们这里做血常规检查，再根据血常规指标及症状做进一步处理，要么转到发热门诊，要么进行药物治疗。
The third is the group of people who have not been examined, we can do a routine blood test here, and then according to the blood routine indicators and symptoms for further treatment, either referred to the fever clinic, or drug treatment.
这样划分区块后，我们逐渐把工作理顺，操作起来也井井有条，医护人员的心也安定下来了。
By dividing the blocks in this way, we gradually put our work in order and in good order, and the minds of the medical staff settled down.
伴随着火神山、雷神山以及多所方舱医院的建成和开放，在“应收尽收、应治尽治”和“分类管制”统一要求下，武汉市大部分确诊病人、疑似病人以及密切接触者，都来到相应的医院和安置点，接受卫生医疗服务。
With the completion and opening of the Fire Mountain, Lei Shenshan and many cabin hospitals, most of the confirmed patients and suspected patients as well as close contacts in Wuhan have come to the corresponding hospitals and settlements to receive health care services under the unified requirements of "receiving and treating as much as possible" and "categorizing and controlling."
各地援助医疗队也纷纷到位，投入救治工作。
Aid medical teams from all over the world have also arrived and put in treatment.
床位增多、医护人员就位，“人等床”的情况大大缓解，病人能住院，也就安心了。
The number of beds, the number of staff in place, the situation of "people waiting for bed" has been greatly alleviated, patients can be hospitalized, and peace of mind.
“工作理顺了”随着病人逐步转到各大医院治疗，社区医院的工作慢慢减少。
"Work is getting straightened out" As patients are referred to major hospitals for treatment, community hospitals are slowly losing jobs.
卫生部门设立多个密切接触者隔离点，我们社区医院定点驻扎在其中一个隔离点，为隔离的居民提供医疗服务。
The health sector has multiple close contacts, and our community hospital is stationed at one of the isolation points to provide medical services to isolated residents.
2月7日，我们来到隔离点开始工作。
On 7 February, we arrived at the quarantining point and began work.
黄杨娟和同事在隔离点工作。
Ms. Huang and her colleagues work at the quarantine site.
最初，这里并非是“密切接触者隔离点”，而是一个确诊病人的“中转站”。
Initially, it was not a "close contact point" but a "transit point" for the diagnosis of patients.
那时，因方舱医院床位基本处于饱和状态，所以少部分暂时没住进方舱医院的确诊病人，先在这里暂住，等方舱医院腾出床位，再转过去。
At that time, as the hospital bed in the square cabin was in a state of saturation, a small number of confirmed patients who had not been admitted to the cabin hospital temporarily stayed there, waiting for the beds to be vacated at the Fang Cao Hospital before being transferred.
第一天，我们就接到8名确诊病人。
On the first day, we had eight confirmed patients.
直接接触确诊病人，我们工作上必须十分谨慎。
We must be very careful in our work when we are in direct contact with confirmed patients.
为了服务好居民的同时，又最大可能的减少交叉感染，我们建了医护人员和居民们的微信交流群。
In order to serve the population and minimize cross-infection, we have established a community of micro-communication between medical staff and residents.
居民们有生活和医疗需求，可随时在群里提出，我们及时解决。
Residents have living and medical needs that can be raised at any time in the group, and we can solve them in time.
随着方舱医院治愈出院患者越来越多，我们这里的确诊患者没几天就全部转进方舱医院了。
With more and more patients being treated and discharged from the cabin hospital, all the patients diagnosed here were transferred to the cabin hospital within a few days.
接下来，我们又陆续接待了一些疑似患者。
Then, we continued to receive a number of suspected patients.
每天早上，我6点多就起床，把自己房间全面消毒后，出门开始一天的工作。
Every morning, I get up at more than 6 o'clock, disinfect my room completely, go out to start the day's work.
先安排人员把隔离点的上上下下进行消毒，安排发放早餐，一一查房收集居民们的体温和身体状况，登记成表，接着在微信群里关注居民们的生活和医疗需求，并及时解决。
The first is to arrange for the disinfection of the upper and lower parts of the site, the distribution of breakfasts, a survey of the population's temperature and physical condition, the registration of tables, and follow-up on the residents' living and medical needs in micro-mail groups, and timely solutions.
同时，我们还要密切关注几名病情稍重病人的身体变化。
At the same time, we have to pay close attention to the physical changes of several patients who are seriously ill.
微信群里，黄杨娟和团队的工作得到居民的肯定和感谢。
Weixin group, Huang Yang Juan and the work of the team were recognized and appreciated by the residents.
分发午餐后，我们开始梳理下午需要做核酸检测的居民名单，并及时通知他们，做好安排。
After lunch, we began combing through the list of residents who needed to be tested for nucleic acids in the afternoon.
提前与疾控中心采样人员对接，保证“无缝衔接”，不耽误时间。
Docking with CDC sampler ahead of time to ensure "seamless connection" and no delay.
随后，我们向卫生部门、信访部门上报隔离点各类信息，并接受检查。
Subsequently, we report all kinds of information about the quarantine point to the departments of public health and letters and visits.
工作虽然有条不紊，但近期工作中有一个问题一直困扰着我。
Although the work is in order, there is a problem that has been bothering me in my work recently.
我们隔离点统计的双阴名单常和疾控中心统计的不一致，我们统计的人数常会多出几人。
Our quarantined double yin list is often inconsistent with CDC statistics, and we often count a few more people.
在接受工作检查时，我们向疾控中心反映了这一问题。
We raised this issue with the CDC during a job inspection.
随后，疾控中心立即召开会议查找数据偏差问题所在。
The CDC then immediately convened a meeting to find out where the data bias lay.
原来疾控中心在对病人的统计中，疏漏了病人此前在医院所做的核酸检测，导致“双阴”居民的数量少。
It turned out that the CDC had missed out on the nucleic acid tests that patients had previously performed in hospitals, resulting in a small number of "double-yin" residents.
找到问题后，疾控中心的工作人员立即调整工作方案，决定只要居民能拿出纸质版核酸检测阴性的报告，结合其在隔离点所做的检测，两次均是阴性后，即可到定点医院做复查，评估其是否能解除隔离。
As soon as the problem was identified, the CDC staff immediately adjusted the work programme and decided that, as long as the population produced a paper-based version of the Nucleic Acid negative report, combined with tests done at the isolation site, both were negative, they could go to the designated hospital for a review to assess whether they could be de-isolated.
如此一来，这方面工作就理顺了，也缩短了居民解除隔离的时间，能腾出更多床位。
In this way, the work has been rationalized and the length of time that residents can be released from isolation has been shortened, freeing up more beds.
工作的流程优化、效率提高，还体现在消杀工作方面。
Work process optimization, efficiency improvement, but also in the elimination of work.
此前，江岸区32家隔离点只要有居民解除隔离，就随时需要专业的消杀团队上门消毒。
Previously, the river area 32 quarantine points as long as the residents to remove isolation, at any time the need for professional sterilization team door-to-door.
这就导致消杀团队多走很多冤枉路，也耽误时间。
This leads to the elimination of the team a lot of wrong road, but also waste time.
后来，我们一起商量决定，每天定时上报一天要消毒的房间数量，消杀团队收集好信息，规划最佳的出行方案，这样就大大提高了工作效率。
Later, we agreed to regularly report the number of rooms to be sanitized each day, to eliminate the team to gather good information, planning the best way to travel, thus greatly improving the efficiency of work.
抗疫到现在，已经一个多月。
It has been over a month since the epidemic began.
这一个多月以来，抗疫工作从无序到有序，从有序到日益优化。
This more than a month, the anti-epidemic work from disorder to order, from order to increasingly optimized.
今天回顾了这段时间的工作，突然很怀念以前在东湖公园踏青的时光。
Looking back on this period of work today, I suddenly miss the green time in the East Lake Park.
等到春暖花开，疫情消散的时候，我想和家人、同事一起去东湖绿道，不戴口罩，放心呼吸、尽情奔跑。
When spring blossoms and the epidemic dissipates, I want to go with my family and colleagues to the East Lake Green Road, do not wear masks, breathing confidently, running heartily.
戳这里进入“全国新型冠状病毒感染病例实时地图”↓↓↓本期编辑 周玉华推荐阅读。
Poke here into a "National Real-Time Map of Cases of Coronavirus Infection," Dou Chou, editor of this issue, recommended reading.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉一线社区医生：想变成“千手观音”。
Wuhan first-line community doctor: want to become a "thousand hands Guanyin".
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉一线社区医生：想变成“千手观音”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '湖北：监狱、看守所原则上只进不出',。
Hubei: Not at all in prison or detention centre.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '一名空乘确诊，5名复工人员被隔离',。
A flight attendant was diagnosed and five reinstated workers were quarantined with service.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '3省5个监狱共确诊555例，司法部谈疫情细节漏洞',。
Ritle: & apos; 555 cases were diagnosed in five prisons in three provinces. & nbsp; & # 160; & # 45; & Justice & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
