一个武汉小区想要消毒。
An Wuhan community wants to disinfect.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻记者 葛明宁 发自武汉 实习生 张卓 沈青青 蓝泽齐消毒开始了。
Peng Ming Ning a journalist from Wuhan intern Zhang Zhuo Shen Qingqing blue Zezi disinfection began.
形似手枪的喷雾器，汩汩而出气状的白烟，隆隆作响。
The spray, like a pistol, gurgled and puffed white smoke, rumbling.
全副武装的消毒公司员工，肩扛着设备，从一楼喷洒到七楼。
Fully armed disinfectant company staff, shoulder to shoulder equipment, sprayed from the first floor to the seventh floor.
2月17日起，武汉市开展为期三天的大排查，希望将新冠病毒感染确诊、疑似病例、密切接触者，以及有发热症状的四类人群“应收尽收”。
Since February 17, Wuhan city has launched a three-day screening exercise aimed at collecting all four categories of people who have been diagnosed, suspected cases, close contacts and febrile symptoms.
在这个位于长江西岸的老小区，“消毒”是人们最迫切的愿望。
In this old neighborhood on the west side of the Yangtze River, "disinfection" is the most urgent desire.
小区间或进出的救护车，身穿白色防护服的工作人员，滋生出各种想象，包括谣言。
Occasional ambulances and staff in white protective clothing breed a variety of imaginations, including rumors.
业主们在社交媒体上反复发帖，要求社区增加消毒频率。
Owners have repeatedly posted on social media asking the community to increase the frequency of disinfection.
尽管社区回应，许多人心惶惶的楼栋并没有病人，“请居民不信谣、不传谣”，但最终他们还是请来了消毒队。
Despite the community response, many of the panic-stricken buildings contained no patients, "please do not believe in rumors, do not spread rumors," but eventually they called a disinfection team.
2月17日，消毒开始了，共持续三四天时间 。
Disinfection began on 17 February and lasted three or four days.
楼道弥漫着雾化的消毒水，和其他武汉小区一样，2月20日，这里进入“全封闭管理”模式。
The aisles are permeated with atomized disinfectant water, which, like other wuhan districts, entered a "total closure" mode on Feb. 20.
眼下，足不出户已经多日，业主们的焦虑似乎没有解除——一面来自买菜买药之类的日常，一面来自小区里可疑的“异动”。
For many days now, homeowners' anxieties seem to be unraveling - from everyday purchases of food and medicine to suspicious "changes" in the neighborhood.
疫情中的一个武汉小区，正在经历复杂的情绪波折。
The epidemic in a Wuhan community is experiencing complex emotional ups and downs.
111小区外观有些陈旧，3000多名住户里中老年人占了大半。
The area has a somewhat archaic appearance, with older persons accounting for most of the more than 3,000 households.
2月中下旬，已是“四类人群”清零的最后时刻。
In the second half of February, it was the last minute to clear the "four categories."
但在小区深处的一栋居民楼，有人还是怀疑，有遗漏的病人。
But in a residential building deep in the community, some people still suspect that there are missing patients.
该小区于2000年竣工，地处偏僻，住户多是老年人。
Completed in 2000, the plot is geographically isolated and populated mostly by elderly people.
二楼的王凤英50多岁。
Wang Fengying on the second floor is over 50.
她隔着纱门对记者说，物资紧张可以理解，但小区里有的事，令她心里打鼓——小区门口有个棋牌室，老板是不到七十岁的老太太。
She told reporters through the screen door, material constraints are understandable, but there are things in the community, making her heart beat - there is a chess room, the boss is less than 70 years old old lady.
王凤英的老公常去打牌，与他们家人很熟。
Wang Fengying's husband used to play cards and knew his family very well.
女店主在年前被看见去医院吸氧，听说也发过烧。
The shopkeeper was seen taking oxygen to the hospital a year ago and was said to have had a fever.
“以前只听说她有高血压、颈椎病。
"She was told she had high blood pressure and cervical spondylosis.
她生病以后，我们反复打过几个视频电话，想问候她，全都是她的家人接电话，总说她的病还好。
After she got sick, we made several video calls to greet her, all from her family, always saying she was all right.
”后来女店主去世了，家人说死因是急性心肌梗塞，但王凤英不信。
"Later the woman shopkeeper died, the family said the cause of death was acute myocardial infarction, but Wang Fengying did not believe.
那时，小区的微信群都在提醒不要接近病人和家属，居民们遇到会绕道走。
At that time, the small community of micro-letters are warning not to approach patients and family members, residents will encounter detour.
她很想问女店主的真实死因，但“我们不好打听，问的话，就像是我们要看她家的笑话”。
She wanted to ask the shopkeeper the true cause of death, but "it was hard to ask, to ask, like we were going to see her joke."
王凤英有两个八十多岁的亲戚，都是确诊的“新冠”患者，那时床位紧张，他们没能住进医院，1月下旬先后去世。
Wang Fengying has two relatives in her 80s who were diagnosed with the "new crown," who died in late January after being unable to stay in a hospital because of a shortage of beds.
临终时，他们才从家里被拉去急救中心，再被拉去殡仪馆。
On their deathbed, they were taken from their homes to the emergency centre and taken to the funeral home.
王凤英自认还年轻。
Wang believes she is still young.
但她的同学群里，也不时有人提到同龄的朋友去世，对王凤英来说，那都是有名有姓的人，她的心止不住地震颤。
But from time to time, some of her classmates mentioned the death of friends of the same age. To Wang Fengying, they were all names, and her heart was shaking.
“莫得办法呀。
"Don't do it.
这是一下子爆发出来的，医院收不了这么多，年纪大了，抵抗力差了呀。
This is a sudden eruption, the hospital can not receive so much, old age, poor resistance ah.
这个病它没有特效药，就是靠免疫力拼呀。
This disease it has no specific medicine, is to rely on the immune system.
”在小区封闭管理前，她也不愿意迈出家门一步，要不是家人要吃要喝的话。
She was reluctant to leave the house until the neighborhood was sealed off, if it weren't for her family's need to eat and drink.
她两三天出一次门，回家给衣服喷上消毒水，然后挂到阳台上。
She went out for two or three days, went home and sprayed disinfectant on her clothes and hung them on the balcony.
她用掉了一包鞋套，很遗憾自己没“眼镜”（护目镜）。
She used a bag of shoes and was sorry that she didn't have "glasses".
万不得已出门倒垃圾，她总是心里很慌。
She was always in a panic when she had to go out to empty the garbage.
说着话，王凤英往空白的楼道里扫视，也许楼上有发热病人，只是躲起来，不愿意说。
With these words, Wang Feng Ying swept through the empty corridor. Perhaps there was a feverish patient upstairs, but she hid herself and refused to say anything.
她对记者说，很盼望消毒，把整栋楼都彻底喷一遍。
She told reporters she looked forward to disinfection and sprayed the whole building through.
121不时有救护车和接送病人的白色面包车停在小区门口。
Occasionally, ambulances and white vans carrying patients were parked in front of the compound.
车辆的照片被拍下来，在业主自建的微信群里流传：有一辆白色的车子开出去了。
Photographs of the vehicle were taken and circulated among the owner's own small letters: A white car drove out.
业主群里大多是生活信息，例如自发团购口罩和食物的接龙活动，但有时疫情“线索”也在这里流通。
Owners tend to have information about their lives, such as spontaneous group buying masks and food catchments, but sometimes "clues" to the epidemic circulate here.
听说，小区新增了确诊病例，“谁能告诉我啥时候带走的啊？”一个年轻的头像发问，“我下午稀里糊涂地在外面……谁能告诉我有没有跟（病毒）擦身而过？”“人是在x栋x单元上的车。
"Who can tell me when it was taken away?" a young avatar asked, "I was out in a muddle this afternoon... who could tell me if I had a brush with the virus?"
”另一人说。
"said another.
“是有个什么车子进去，好像跟门口的人还争论了两句，我看了一眼……然后出来的时候，我在门卫室这边，露了一点头出来。
"It was some sort of car that went in, as if it had been an argument with the man at the door, and I took a look... and then, as I came out, I nodded in the porter's room.
”她连发了几个哭泣的表情。
"She made several sobbing faces.
业主们试图复盘小区“疫情”的起源和传播路线。
Owners are trying to revive the origin and spread of the epidemic in their neighborhoods.
王凤英的朋友，住在三楼的江小梅肯定地说，这病是小区里的老年舞蹈队吃年夜饭传开的。
Wang Fengying's friends, living on the third floor of Jiang Xiaomei confirmed that the disease is the community of the elderly dance team spread.
她们回来后，有一部分人发烧，有的住院了。
When they returned, some of them had a fever and some were hospitalized.
江小梅揣摩着，舞蹈队里的一些阿姨很爱面子，她们得了病，可能“阴着”不说，平时她们和老公吵架了也不会说。
Jiang Xiaomei speculated that some of the aunts in the dance team were proud of themselves. They were ill and might be "overcast," and they could not say anything when they quarreled with their husbands.
“听说有个女的老公一直在咳”，江小梅神秘地对记者说。
"Heard of a woman's husband has been cough," Jiang Xiaomei mysteriously told reporters.
她是个说话中气十足的老年人。
She is an elderly person who speaks in a high-pitched way.
江小梅一直不喜欢舞蹈队——何况，舞蹈队与小区物业走得太近，江小梅对物业又不满意。
Jiang Xiaomei has always disliked the dance team - not to mention, the dance team and the residential property too close, Jiang Xiaomei is not satisfied with the property.
她抱怨说，物业聚餐“抠门”，端一盆圆子上来，物业的人一下就倒走了，要带回家里。
She complained that the property dinner "stingy man," a basin of round came up, the property of the people immediately reversed, to take home.
“我说这次你吃得好吧，大家全部都到医院里去了呗。
"I said you had a good meal this time. Everyone went to the hospital.
”自从病毒源自年夜饭的说法传开后，小区里有人四处打听，那张桌上，究竟坐着哪几个人。
Since the story of the virus beginning at New Year's Eve began to spread, people in the neighborhood asked who were sitting on the table.
在江小梅楼上，六楼的住户邱兰分析，好些密切接触者在外乱跑。
Jiang Xiaomei upstairs, the sixth floor of the residents Qiulan analysis, many close contacts outside run.
比如，一个黑衣的女青年——她向记者展示了一张穿黑羽绒服的女性照片，但她不认识图片中的姑娘。
For example, a young woman in black, who showed a woman in a black down jacket, did not know the girl in the picture.
这样的图片也来自业主群。
Such images also come from owners' groups.
从居民楼往下俯拍的视角，据说是前一天拍的。
The view from the residential building down is said to have been taken the day before.
图片上还有水印文字，“父亲已确诊”。
There is also a watermark on the picture, "Father has been diagnosed."
小区居民常看到救护车进出，拍照在微信群流传。
Residential areas often see ambulances in and out, photographs in the micro-groups circulating.
受访者供图五十多岁的邱兰有些激动：“她爸爸已经住院了。
The interviewee was agitated by Churchill, who is in his fifties: "Her father is already in hospital.
她应该上报去隔离呀，她带着那个病毒，不是把我们所有人都害了吗！”邱兰自己和儿子儿媳住在一起。
She was supposed to be quarantined. She was carrying the virus, wasn't she killing us all! "Churchill himself lived with his son and daughter-in-law.
她在疫情中费劲得到了批准，把儿媳妇平时独居的奶奶接来住。
She managed to get approval for the outbreak, bringing in her daughter-in-law's normally solitary grandmother.
这些事搞得她焦头烂额。
All this has left her in a mess.
有的业主打电话给社区要求全面消杀，那时正是疫情最胶着的时候，社区表示人手不够。
Some of the owners called the community to demand a total elimination, when the epidemic was at its peak, the community said there was a shortage of staff.
业主们又提到“黑羽绒服姑娘”，要求社区对她进行强制隔离。
Owners also referred to the "black eiderdown girl" and asked the community to forcibly segregate her.
社区回复说，她父亲没有确诊，那个说法是谣言。
The community replied that her father had not been diagnosed, which was a rumour.
于是业主们又打市长热线，投诉社区干部。
Owners then called the mayor's hotline to complain about community cadres.
有的业主看到病人家属出门买东西，选择了报警。
Some owners see the patient's family go shopping, choose to call the police.
“社区说话的口吻比我们的硬，”邱兰的儿子说，“不肯管我们”，他有心脏病，一直喘息着。
"The community talks harder than we do," Churchill's son said. "Ignore us." He has a heart attack and is gasping.
邱兰请记者不要担心，不是病毒。
Qiulan asks the reporter not to worry, not the virus.
七楼的住户王南很同情社区，他觉得社区和物业的工作人员没什么防护，就在户外工作，与医护人员一样，都是“搏命”，他不想给他们增加负担。
Wang Nan, a resident on the seventh floor, was sympathetic to the community. He felt that the staff of the community and property had little protection. He worked outdoors and, like the medical staff, was "fighting for his life." He did not want to burden them.
王南和老伴都快七十岁，他们在顶楼搞了一块菜地，日常摘些蔬菜使用，已经有一个月没下楼了。
Wang Nan and his wife are nearly 70 years old, they have a vegetable plot in the top floor, daily use of vegetables, has not been downstairs for a month.
王南说话慢条斯理的，他说自己是退休干部，原本是河南人，一直在武汉工作。
Wang Nan speaks slowly, he said that he is a retired cadre, originally Henan people, has been working in Wuhan.
他也想抱怨些什么，但终究停了下来。
He, too, wanted to complain, but stopped.
“要我怎么说呢，闺女。
"What shall I say, my daughter?
你要我说什么好呢。
What do you want me to say?
”131整栋楼的人都觉得消毒的事应该物业负责，而物业经理对记者说，小区有几十栋楼和十来名物业人员，其中三个看大门，两个管理，其余的是电工和保洁员。
People throughout the building felt responsible for the disinfection, while the property manager told reporters there were dozens of buildings and a dozen property staff, three of whom looked at the gates, two managed and the rest electricians and cleaners.
物业做不到对所有楼道进行消杀。
The property could not be used to kill all the corridors.
邱兰推荐记者去见一位热心的业主刘正凯。
Qiulan recommends reporters to meet a zealous owner Liu Zhengkai.
这是个高高胖胖的年轻人，27岁的健身教练，他自我介绍，早年爱玩，喜欢打架，现在已经改好了。
This is a tall, fat young man, 27-year-old fitness coach, who introduced himself as a fun-loving, fighting-loving young man who is now better.
刘正凯回忆，有一天他在自家的露台上倒茶，看见一副担架抬着病人出去，他只感到一阵气血上涌，在那一瞬间，他觉得要站出来组织大家共同“抗疫”。
Liu recalled that one day when he poured tea on his patio and saw a stretcher carrying the patient out, he felt a surge of blood.
在健身房的不远处有家书店，刘正凯读了一本切斯特•巴纳德写的《组织与管理》。
Not far from the gym in a bookstore, Liu Zhengkai reads Chester Barnard's "Organization and Management."
他当即制定出计划：在小区里招募年轻志愿者，最好是30岁没结婚的，40岁以下也还可以，每栋楼招一个人，统一出门采购。
He immediately worked out a plan: recruit young volunteers in the community, preferably unmarried at the age of 30, but also under the age of 40, each building to recruit a person, uniform out of the procurement.
还要集中采购一批消毒药水，也由年轻志愿者消毒。
Also centralized procurement of a batch of disinfectant, also disinfected by young volunteers.
其他时间，居民都不要出门。
At other times, residents are not allowed to go out.
这是记者见到他之前数天发生的事情。
That was a few days before reporters saw him.
但2月13日的刘正凯有点丧气：他往小区微信群发送自己的微信二维码，然后在夜晚端着喇叭在小区里循环播放，号召居民出来参加消毒——但没有年轻人来加他的微信。
But Mr Liu, on February 13, was a bit frustrated: he sent out his microphone in two-dimensional code to the community, then circulated it at night with a megaphone, calling on residents to come out and take part in disinfection - but no young man came to add his message.
40岁的邻居姐姐想参加志愿者活动，刘正凯说，你有孩子，要注意安全，不要外出。
'If you have children, be careful and don't go out, 'said Liu Zengkai, a 40-year-old neighbor's sister who wants to volunteer.
还有几个60岁的老人也加他的微信。
Several other 60-year-olds also added his message.
刘正凯觉得这与害人性命无异。
Liu Zhengkai felt that this is life-threatening.
他一一拒绝了他们。
He refused them all.
后来，社区书记向记者解释，小区里本就老年人多——曾经有个活动叫“邻里关爱”，内容是60岁的志愿者给80岁的跑腿采买。
Later, the community secretary explained to reporters that there were many elderly people in the neighborhood - there had been a campaign called "Neighborhood Care," in which 60-year-old volunteers picked up errands for the 80-year-old.
以前，刘正凯从不参加小区里的社交活动，早出晚归的他只认识一个年轻邻居。
Formerly, Liu Zhengkai never attended social activities in his community. He only knew a young neighbor when he came home early and late.
刘正凯孤独地用浇花用的小壶给自己的楼栋消了一遍毒。
Liu Zhengkai alone with watering pot for their own building for the elimination of a poison.
他觉得小区里的传言有点过分，于是独自守在大门口，记录每一日运送病人车辆出现的频率。
He felt that the rumors in the community were a little excessive, so he stood alone at the gate, recording the frequency with which patients' vehicles were transported every day.
因为业主群流传某一户人家有还未送医的确诊病人，刘正凯决定亲自上门验证真假，他特意选择晚上，这样家中必定有人。
Because the owners spread a certain family has not been sent to a confirmed patient, Liu Zhengkai decided to personally verify the authenticity of the door, he deliberately chose the evening, so there must be someone in the family.
出门前，他甚至戴上了驱邪的钟馗挂件，结果证明都是谣言，那单元房里没有住人。
Before going out, he even put on the Zhong Kui exorcism pendant, the result proves to be rumor, that unit is not inhabited.
刘正凯出门消毒，有些紧张。
Liu Zhengkai went out to disinfect, some nervous.
他戴了个钟馗挂件，用于辟邪。
He wears a Zhong Kui Monument which is used to ward off evil spirits.
受访者供图“一个个都只会在群里传图片，瞎说八道。
Respondents offered to "pass pictures and gossip in groups only."
”刘正凯后来变得有些愤世嫉俗。
Mr Liu later became somewhat cynical.
但是，他又能理解他们的心情。
But, again, he could understand their feelings.
采访的第二日，他也给记者发来那张黑羽绒服女性的照片。
On the second day of the interview, he also sent a photo of a woman in a black down jacket.
“整栋楼的人都吓得要命。
"The whole building is freaking out.
”刘正凯说，“能不能帮忙核实一下？”他有个朋友的母亲发热，住在某栋楼的楼顶。
"Could you please check it out for me?" His friend's mother was feverish and lived on the roof of a building.
楼下出过“新冠”确诊病人，那天晚上，刘正凯六神无主，和记者探讨是否要把病人送下楼去看病，“会经过确诊病人的门口”。
Liu Zhengkai, who had been diagnosed with a "new crown" downstairs, spent the night discussing with reporters whether to take the patient downstairs to see a doctor "through the door of a confirmed patient."
最终，朋友的母亲还是去看病了，确诊也是“新冠”肺炎。
Finally, the friend's mother went to see the doctor, the diagnosis is also "new crown" pneumonia.
141“你跟他们很难说得通。
"You can hardly make sense to them.
”记者见到负责该小区的社区书记周文山时，他显得很烦闷。
The reporter saw Zhou Wenshan, the community secretary in charge of the district, who looked bored.
“有的人投诉说物业只往楼道口洒点清水，这怎么可能？还有人要整栋楼全部消杀，物业经理说，哪怕高档小区的物业也做不到。
"How is it possible that some people complain that property is simply sprinkling clean water into the entryway? Others want the whole building to be wiped out, the property manager said, even in upscale properties.
居民能听得进这种话？”物业一般归房屋管理局指导。
Can the residents hear this? "The property is generally under the direction of the Housing Authority.
周文山说，社区平时让物业做些事，靠的是私人情面。
Zhou Wenshan said that the community usually let the property do something, depending on the personal circumstances.
在“四类人员”“清零”的当口，周文山再顾不上居民和物业之间的矛盾。
In the "four categories of personnel" "zero," Zhou Wenshan no longer care about the contradiction between residents and property.
2月13日，他正忙着劝说密切接触者去隔离点。
On 13 February, he was busy persuading close contacts to go to the quarantine site.
据街道办事处的人说，周文山曾到某户居民家门口蹲了一晚——劝说是一件机械的事，是不断与人说同一套话，最后把人“哄”上车去。
According to the street office people, Zhou Wenshan once squatted in front of the door of a house for a night - persuasion is a mechanical thing, is to repeatedly say the same cliche, and finally "coax" people into the car.
“隔离是为了你的安全，也是为了你家人的安全。
"Isolation is for your safety and that of your family.
政府花这么多钱，都是为了你们居民好。
The government spends so much money for the good of your residents.
麻烦的并不是你，你身体好，你屋里（家里）要是别人身体有点……划不来嘛，到隔离点去有吃有喝，又不要你掏一分钱。
It's not you who's in trouble, you're in good health, and if someone else's a little... it's not worth it, eat and drink at the quarantined point and pay nothing.
”社区服务中心位于一条城乡结合部的小巷子里近一半人都需要周文山反复说这一套话。
Nearly half of the people at the community service center in a rural-urban neighborhood need Zhou Wenshan to repeat the same message.
2月19日，记者第二次见到他，仍旧如此。
On 19 February, the journalist saw him for the second time and continued to do so.
他正接起一个电话，那一端的同事说，解释不通，有个密切接触者不想带被子去隔离点。
He was picking up a phone, said a colleague at the other end of the line. It didn't make sense.
周文山说：“那我们一下买不到嘛，你说是不是，你说能不能买到？”酒店改为隔离点后，他们“抢着”把密切接触者送进去。
"Then we can't buy it at once, don't you think you can buy it?" Zhou Wenshan said.
否则，出现新一例的确诊，就会立刻多出许多密切接触者，又有很多变数。
Otherwise, the diagnosis of a new case will immediately have many more close contacts, and a lot of variables.
武汉各区疾控中心掌握街道、社区的“四类人员”身份信息。
Wuhan District CDC grasp the street, community "four categories of personnel" identity information.
除了各街道城管和志愿者负责开车接送，周文山所属的区要求社区干部亲自将“四类人员”送上车，完成交接。
In addition to the city managers and volunteers are responsible for driving, Zhou Wenshan's district asked the community cadres to personally "four categories of personnel" to the vehicle to complete the handover.
如果是确诊的病人，街道办事处要派员跟车。
In the case of a confirmed patient, the street office will have to follow suit.
于是，在2月19日下午，周文山两次艰难地将自己套入一身工业级别防护服里。
So, on the afternoon of February 19th, Zhou Wenshan struggled twice to fit himself into an industrial-grade suit.
他说，社区干部大多都是女的，胆子小。
He said that most of the community cadres were women and had little courage.
而他，是个55岁的男人。
And he's a 55-year-old man.
这一桩事要接触患者与密切接触者，如果大家轮流去，回到社区服务中心容易交叉感染。
Contact with patients and close contacts, if everyone takes turns, back to the community service center easy to cross-infection.
说完，他骑上一辆“社区巡逻”字样的电瓶车飞驰而去。
"With that, he rode away on a" community patrol "electric truck.
此前，听记者提起那个强烈要求消毒的小区，周文山脸上的烦闷又加重一层。
Previously, listen to the reporter to urge disinfection of the community, Zhou Wenshan face of the boredom and aggravate a layer.
他回忆，这小区里有个密切接触者不想去隔离点，非常难搞。
He recalled that there was a close contact in the neighborhood who didn't want to go to the quarantine site, which was very difficult.
最终，他一气之下对那女子说：“你小区微信群里都在咒你。
At last he said to the girl angrily, "You are cursed in the small letters in your neighborhood.
要不，你写个保证书，以后被业主打了，不要找我。
Or, you write a letter of guarantee, was later hit by the owner, do not look for me.
”对方听了，要求立刻去隔离点。
"Hearing this, the other party demanded to go to the quarantine point at once.
那是一个夜晚，临时找不到车辆。
It was a night when no traffic could be found.
周文山领着她，走了2.5公里的夜路。
Zhou Wenshan led her and walked 2.5 kilometers at night.
151坐到记者面前，周文山说，正好把之前的经历都梳理一遍。
151 sit in front of reporters, Zhou Wenshan said, just to comb the previous experience.
社区服务中心有十多个职员，除了一个人专门负责数据，其他人都忙些琐事。
The community service center has more than a dozen employees, all but one of whom specializes in data and others are busy with trivia.
辖区内有一万多人，有的居民会提出稀奇古怪的需求。
There are more than 10, 000 people in the district, some of whom will ask for odd demands.
有的明明60多岁，子女只住在一公里外，可非说自己已经80岁，要社区给他送菜去。
Some are in their sixties and their children live only one kilometer away, but they have to say that they are 80 years old and want the community to bring him food.
周文山内心觉得不应该，但他担心投诉。
Zhou Wenshan felt that he should not, but he was worried about complaining.
只要有居民打市长热线，甚或有直接报警的，他们都要交书面材料。
Whenever a resident calls the mayor's hotline or even calls the police directly, they submit written materials.
没疫情的时候，对居民提的要求，社区干部会做入户核查，一般只有无子女的孤寡老人、残疾人，才能享受特殊照顾。
When there is no outbreak of the disease, community leaders will ask residents to do home verification, generally only childless elderly and disabled, can enjoy special care.
可是，周文山现在不愿意差人到居民家去。
But Zhou Wenshan doesn't want to send people to their homes now.
那些送药送菜的需求，只能先答应下来，给居民送到门口。
Those who sent medicine to deliver the demand, can only answer first down, to the residents to the door.
他说，腾不出人手去做消毒。
He said there was no room for hands to disinfect.
即便有志愿者愿意去消毒、与病家接触，周文山也不会放行。
Even if there are volunteers willing to disinfect, contact the patient, Zhou Wenshan will not release.
这是有感染风险的事，即便志愿者不责怪他，他们的父母和朋友也会打市长热线、报警。
This is an infection risk, even if the volunteers do not blame him, their parents and friends will also call the mayor's hotline, the police.
一切发生得太快了，他感慨。
It all happened so fast, he lamented.
1月23日，武汉“封城”。
January 23, Wuhan "closed the city."
那天是腊月二十九，有外地人到社区服务中心来，想请他开个证明。
It was the 29th of December, and a stranger had come to the community service centre to ask him for a certificate.
他们以为社区能批准他们离开武汉，但周文山开不出证明。
They thought the community would allow them to leave Wuhan, but Zhou Wenshan could not prove it.
他当时还想，等疫情过去，这些人能回家过元宵节的。
He thought that when the epidemic was over, these people would be able to go home for the Lantern Festival.
大年初一晚上开始，周文山住到了他位于社区服务中心二楼的办公室里，此后的二十多天，都没有回过家。
Zhou Wenshan started living in his office on the second floor of the community service center on the first night of New Year's Day and did not return home for more than 20 days.
他的手机总连着充电宝。
His cell phone is always connected to a recharger.
春节的头几天，大量的病人家属打不通“110”“120”，就打他的电话——他的电话写在社区的公告栏里。
During the first few days of the Lunar New Year, a large number of patients' families could not get through "110" or "120," so they called himhis phone number was written on the bulletin board in the community.
最紧张的时候，是正月初三、初四，他没有怎么睡过觉。
The most tense time, is the first month, the third day, four days, he did not sleep very much.
那两日武汉落了小雨，到初五，就转成了雨夹雪。
Wuhan on those two days of light rain, to the fifth day, turned into a sleet.
周文山挂了一个电话，能看见刚才没能打进来的，回拨过去，那一端是对他的哀求：我在屋里头，烧得快要死了。
Zhou Wenshan hung up a telephone, can see just failed to call in, dial back to the other end of his appeal: I was inside the house, burning almost to death.
但床位太不够了，他只好对病人们说，我们社区只有这点条件，我明天给你上报到街道啊。
But the beds were not enough, and he told the patients that there was only one condition in our community, and I would report it to the street to-morrow.
那段时间，周文山不脱鞋睡觉，也不关灯。
At that time, Zhou Wenshan does not take off shoes sleep, also does not turn off the light.
有的女病人在家生病，社区里帮不到她。
Some of the women were sick at home and could not be helped in the community.
她的女婿先到社区服务中心来骂了一场。
Her son-in-law came to the community service center and scolded him.
第二日，仍然不能住院。
On the second day, he remained hospitalized.
她的女儿跑来社区，摘下口罩，哈出一大口气。
Her daughter ran into the community, took off her mask and let out a big breath.
2月2日，“松动了”。
On February 2, "loosened."
这一天开始，病人陆续住进了医院。
At the beginning of the day, the patients were admitted to the hospital.
可周文山感到疲倦万分：之前深夜来电，有发烧的人攻击他，说他不为他们服务；病床供应增加以后，甚至有人夸大病情，想赶快住院；还有的人想给周文山送钱，这让他感觉受到“侮辱”。
But Zhou Wenshan felt extremely tired: he had been attacked late at night by people with a fever who said he was not serving them; the increase in the supply of beds had even led to an exaggerated desire to be hospitalized; and there were those who wanted to send money to Zhou Wenshan, which made him feel insulted.
最近，周文山在给老年人送菜。
Recently, Zhou Wenshan is delivering food to the old people.
他说送菜挺开心的，虽然爬楼累点，但老人们都感谢他。
He said the food was very happy, although the building tired, but the old people are grateful to him.
161“防护服不可能按照量来送。
"Protective clothing cannot be delivered in quantities.
”街道办事处主任刘宁对记者说，“区里只是大致估计一下各街道的需求。
"It's just a rough estimate of the demand in the streets," Liu Ning, director of the neighborhood office, told reporters.
有时候，为了省防护服，接完病人就在楼下站一会。
Sometimes, to save on protective clothing, the patient stands downstairs for a while.
这样能省下一套。
That saves one set.
”省防护服的是刘宁自己。
"It was Liu Ning himself who saved the suit.
他替区政府解释，要求基层干部亲自运送病人的理由是：到了医院的接待处，病人之间为避免交叉感染会主动站得“非常分散”，需要有人维持秩序。
He explained to the district government that the reason for requiring grassroots cadres to transport patients themselves was that at the hospital reception, patients would stand "very dispersed" to avoid cross-infection and someone needed to maintain order.
刘宁与负责开车的城管队员去过两次方舱医院。
Liu Ning and the city guard in charge of driving have been to the cabin hospital twice.
2月15日上午，刘宁在街道办事处的走廊里踱来踱去，给密切接触者打电话。
On the morning of February 15, Liu Ning walked up and down the hallway of the street office, telephoning close contacts.
社区书记搞不定的密切接触者，也要转到刘宁这里。
Close contacts that the community secretary may not be able to make will also be transferred to Liu Ning.
但刘宁说，他没有社区干部困难。
But Liu Ning says he has no difficulties with community cadres.
“他们与无数的人打交道，我们只与有限的人打交道。
"They deal with countless people, we deal with a limited number of people.
”特殊时期，社区办事处原有的建制打乱，分成运输组、物资组与数据组。
During the special period, the original establishment of the community office was disrupted, divided into transportation groups, material groups and data sets.
运输组调度改装过的城管车辆，作为临时的救护车运送病人；物资组要给隔离点的患者送日用品，从区政府运回酒精和成箱的中药，再分发到各个社区；数据组实时更新各社区的病例情况，包括体温、核酸检测结果，每个确诊病人的密切接触者。
The Transport Section dispatches modified CTS vehicles to transport patients as temporary ambulances; the Material Unit delivers daily supplies to patients in isolation sites, alcohol and boxes of Chinese medicine from the district administration for distribution to communities; and the data sets provide real-time updates on cases in communities, including temperature, nucleic acid test results and close contacts for each confirmed patient.
数据组的王佳在区疾控中心的微信群里。
Wang Jia of the data set is in the micromail group of the district CDC.
最忙的时候，群里会在深夜跳出信息，说是某个医院有床位，请各街道上报病人最新情况。
The busiest time, the group will jump out of the message late at night, said that a hospital bed, please report the latest situation in the streets.
王佳忙不迭地给区疾控发邮件，包括辖区内重症患者的个人信息和胸片。
Wang Jia rushed to the district CDC e-mail, including the area of severe patients personal information and chest film.
王佳总觉得，自己在与其他街道比拼手速。
Wang Jia always felt that she was competing with other streets for speed.
那段时间，为了确定上报名单，刘宁和王佳要给各社区上报的重症病人排队，分出轻重缓急。
During that time, Liu Ning and Wang Jiajie had to line up patients with severe illnesses reported to the communities in order to confirm their lists.
刘宁说，各个社区书记在材料里的口风不一样，有的特别紧张，有的可能在辖区里收集到太多病例，描述时反而轻描淡写。
Liu Ning said that the various community secretaries in the materials in the wind, some particularly tense, some may be in the jurisdiction of the collection of too many cases, the description of the light.
一开始，刘宁会找街道卫生中心的人看一下胸片，但后来中心主任染上“新冠”病毒，就再没有多余的医生帮他干活。
At first, Liu would look at the chest films at the street health center, but then the director of the center contracted the new crown virus and there were no more doctors left to help.
刘宁是哮喘患者，“对咳喘的事比较了解”，于是他自己给重症病人家属打电话。
Liu Ning, an asthma sufferer, "knows something about coughing," so he himself called the family of a critically ill patient.
有时候他也会想，错了怎么办，“那只能尽力而为吧”。
Sometimes he would wonder what he would do wrong. "Do what you can."
他说起一个35岁左右的“新冠”患者，有哮喘的基础病，“我还好，”病人在电话里说，“把床位让给其他人吧”。
He spoke of a 35-year-old "New Crown" patient with asthma symptoms, "I'm OK," the patient said on the phone. "Give up your bed to someone else."
过了一会，病人的妻子给刘宁打来电话，边说边哭。
After a while, the patient's wife called Liu Ning, saying and crying.
其实这个病人的情况不太好。
In fact, the patient is not doing very well.
后来，刘宁把他送去了同济医院中法新城院区。
Later, Liu Ning sent him to Tongji Hospital in France Xincheng District.
方舱医院刚开始收治病人时，有几天，接收重症病人的定点医院还比较满，刘宁想让辖区内的病人都及时住进医院。
When the hospital first began to treat patients, there were a few days, the admission of patients with serious illness is still relatively full, Liu Ning want to let the patients in their jurisdiction in time to live in hospital.
“住进方舱要测静态血氧饱和度，”刘宁回忆，“我就和病人们讲，去的路上平心静气一点，不要急躁，一躁血氧饱和度会下跌。
"Into the cabin to measure the static oxygen saturation," Liu Ning recalled, "I told patients that the road to calm down, not impatience, manic blood oxygen saturation will fall.
”2月15日，刘宁有一件事想和区政府汇报：辖区内有一名不到30岁的尿毒症患者，核酸检测阴性，但属于符合临床诊断标准的“新冠”病人。
On Feb. 15, Liu Ning wanted to report to the regional government that there was a uremic patient under the age of 30 who tested negative for nucleic acid but was a "new crown" patient who met the criteria for a clinical diagnosis.
他不愿意去方舱医院，理由是不方便去另家医院做透析，而且有交叉感染的风险。
He was reluctant to go to the Fang Causeway Hospital on the grounds that it was inconvenient to go to another hospital for dialysis and that there was a risk of cross-infection.
刘宁想问下区里有没有折中的办法。
Liu Ning wants to ask if there is a compromise in the next district.
他的另一桩任务是筹备封闭小区。
His other task was to prepare for the closure of the community.
在刘宁的辖区内，不少居民楼的楼栋直接面向马路。
In Liu Ning's jurisdiction, many residential buildings directly facing the road.
只好组织一下，把马路也封起来。
We have to organize and seal up the road.
街道办事处主张封锁马路，这天下雪，要趁路面结冰前做完。
Street offices advocate blocking the road, it is snowing that day, before the road before the ice finish.
千头万绪的事等着他们去做，消毒只是其中一件。
Sterilization is only one of the myriad things that await them.
“疫情”暴发以后，只要是有人在家死亡，无论是否有迹象显示与“新冠”有关，都要对房屋内部进行彻底的消杀。
After the outbreak of the outbreak, the interior of the house was completely eliminated whenever someone died at home, whether or not there was any indication of a connection with the New Crown.
坐在王佳斜对面的郑云，就负责收集社区人员的去世信息，对接区疾控去消毒，给他们协调车辆。
Sitting opposite Wang Jia, Zheng Yun is responsible for collecting information about the death of community members, disinfecting disease control in the docking area, and coordinating vehicles with them.
她还负责核对密切接触者。
She is also responsible for checking close contacts.
当一个病例确诊后，区里会先找病人了解情况，然后把密切接触者的名单发送给她，她打电话复核后，重新上传。
When a case is diagnosed, the district first asks the patient for information and then sends her a list of close contacts, which she calls to review and re-uploads.
过一段时间，区里会给王佳一个确定版本的密切接触者名单。
After a while, the district will give Wang Jia a definitive version of the list of close contacts.
王佳再把名单分发给各社区，说服他们接受隔离。
Wang Jia then distributed the lists to communities to persuade them to accept segregation.
但作为“其中一件”的消毒，此刻在居民眼中无比紧迫。
But as "one of them" disinfection, at the moment in the eyes of the residents incomparable urgency.
刘宁交办郑云，联络下可以做小区外部消杀的第三方机构。
Liu Ning to do Zheng Yun, contact with the community can be the external elimination of third-party institutions.
在前述工作的空隙，郑云打了几个电话，第一个说自己正在隔离点干活，第二个关机，第三个说，消杀一栋楼的价格是700元。
Zheng Yun made several phone calls in the margins of the aforementioned work. The first said he was working at the quarantine point, the second shut down, and the third said the cost of killing a building was 700 yuan.
郑云觉得有一点贵，她拿不准由哪项经费出这笔钱。
Zheng Yun felt a bit expensive, and she was unsure which fund would pay for the money.
171消毒前后用了三四天，里里外外雾气滚滚。
171 It took three or four days before and after disinfection, with internal and external fog billowing.
“现在居民也比较怕，要让他们有安全感嘛。
"The residents are afraid now, so let them feel safe.
”19日的采访中，周文山说，他劝服了物业经理，掏钱搞一次消毒，要不然，他也不知道该怎么办。
In an interview Monday, Zhou said he persuaded the property manager to pay for a disinfection, or else he did not know what to do.
小区已实现封闭管理了。
The neighborhood has been sealed off.
2月20日，物业张经理在协调给小区居民买菜。
On February 20, property manager Zhang was coordinating the purchase of vegetables for residents of the district.
他对记者说，别老听着居民骂我们，这个小区每年的物业费，不过每平方米6毛钱，这点钱能干什么事？完成“四类人员清零”以后，社区的主要工作是保障民生。
He told reporters not to listen to the residents scold us, this district annual property fees, but 60 cents per square meter, what can this money do? "Four categories of personnel after the completion of the" four categories of people, "the main task of the community is to safeguard people's livelihood.
大门口堆放着萝卜和冬瓜。
The gate was piled high with radishes and winter melons.
疫情之中，物业倒下了一个电工。
During the outbreak, the property collapsed an electrician.
他大约52岁，高高瘦瘦的，武汉黄陂人，他的老婆也得病了。
He is about 52 years old, tall thin, Wuhan Huangpi, his wife also got sick.
看门的大爷说，居民之前看见电工出门就很紧张，为此报过警。
The porter said that the residents had seen the electrician go out before very nervous, for this reason reported to the police.
至于那个身穿黑羽绒服的年轻女性，在街道办事处的文档中，她的母亲在1月30日住进医院，是确诊的“新冠”病人。
As for the young woman in a black down jacket, in the street office file, her mother was admitted to the hospital on January 30, a confirmed "new crown" patient.
她的父亲在2月2日左右也开始发热住院，但核酸检测阴性，也不是临床的疑似病例，最近被定性为普通发热，已经出院了。
Her father, who had also started febrile hospitalization around 2 February, had a negative nucleic acid test, which was not a clinical suspicion, and had recently been classified as a normal fever and discharged.
所以，黑衣的姑娘不算是密切接触者。
So girls in black are not close contacts.
小区里长期分成支持物业与反对物业的两拨人。
The community has long been divided between those who support property and those who oppose it.
江小梅经常与物业争吵，2月20日，当记者再次见到她时，她抱怨说，消毒的时候只听到隆隆的响声，闻不到84消毒水的气味，担心是走形式。
Jiang often quarreled with her property, and on Feb. 20, when reporters saw her again, she complained that she heard only a rumble of disinfection, did not smell of disinfectant 84, and worried about the form.
但她又说，现在觉得，物业也很不容易。
But now, she says, it's not easy to own a property.
转变的起因是，小区封闭后，开始招募团购志愿者。
The reason for the shift was that the community closed down and began recruiting volunteers for the group.
江小梅想撺掇其他反对物业的姐妹去报名，正好让物业看一看，她们是怎么管理这个小区的。
Jiang Xiaomei would like to throw other anti-property sister to register, just let the property see, how they manage this community.
可那些姐妹又不愿意。
But the sisters didn't want it.
江小梅很不忿。
Jiang Xiaomei was very angry.
她想自己去当志愿者，外出替居民采购。
She wanted to volunteer herself and go out shopping for the residents.
邱兰还是惴惴不安。
Qiu Lan is still apprehensive.
她对记者说，前一天小区微信群里还有求助的，是有个女人，已经喘不上气了，住在楼上的王南为此报了警，后来又说不是“新冠”。
She told reporters that the previous day there was a small community micro-letter group for help, is a woman, already out of breath, living upstairs Wang Nan reported to the police, and later said not "new crown.
邱兰搞不明白到底怎么回事。
Churchill couldn't figure out what was going on.
但王南向记者解释，他没报警，只是打了市长热线。
But Wang explained to reporters that he did not call the police, just called the mayor's hotline.
过了一会，社区回复说，求助帖不是本人发的，是那个女人的朋友代发的，朋友在电话里听女人气喘吁吁的，就报警了。
After a while, the community replied that the help post is not my own, is the woman's friend, friends in the phone to listen to women panting, the police.
实际上，女人家里的确有“新冠”病人，但14天之前已经送医，她也不算密切接触者。
In fact, a woman does have a "new crown" patient in her home, but she was admitted 14 days ago, and she is not close to her.
小区出门左拐是个大卖场，三个中年男人站在门口，阳光打在他们的脸上。
The neighborhood turned left is a big market, three middle-aged men stand at the door, the sun hit their faces.
他们都是小区的团购志愿者，在等着搬运各类货物。
They are group buying volunteers in the neighborhood, waiting to move all kinds of goods.
其中一位说，小区不招募志愿者了，人再多一点，就变成“人群聚集”。
One of them said that the community did not recruit volunteers, a little more people, will become "crowd gathered."
刘正凯最终没参加这次志愿者活动。
Liu Zhengkai did not take part in the volunteer activities.
他觉得，自己之前在外购买消毒物品，又拿大喇叭在小区招募志愿者，接触太多，需要在家自行隔离。
He felt he had bought disinfectant items outside and recruited volunteers in his neighborhood with a loudspeaker. He had too much contact and needed to isolate himself at home.
可在家待了几天之后，他在微信上吐槽，“我好无聊啊”。
But after a few days at home, he spat on the trough, "I'm so bored."
经过朋友介绍，他决定去当治安志愿者了。
After being introduced by his friends, he decided to be a police volunteer.
2月22日，他的任务是去方舱医院附近巡逻，夜班，晚上6点开始。
On 22 February, his assignment was to patrol the area around the Fangkang Hospital, where night work began at 6 p.m.
出发前，刘正凯有点紧张，他担心有坏人冲他吐口水。
Before setting out, Liu Zhengkai was a little nervous, he was afraid of bad people spitting at him.
但是，“没关系，我会综合格斗，要是有人敢在夜里做坏事，我就去抓这些坏人”。
But, "Never mind, I'll combine combat, and if anyone dares to do bad things at night, I'll catch these bad guys."
他戴上了他的钟馗挂件。
He wears his Zhong Kui Monument.
（文中人物皆为化名）戳这里进入“全国新型冠状病毒感染病例实时地图”↓↓↓本期编辑 周玉华推荐阅读。
Wee Chow, editor of this PhD, recommended reading the Dell Computerized Dell Computers, PhD, PhD, for this year's edition.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一个武汉小区想要消毒。
An Wuhan community wants to disinfect.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "一个武汉小区想要消毒";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "疫情中的一个武汉小区，正在经历复杂的情绪波折";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
title: '湖北：监狱、看守所原则上只进不出',。
Hubei: Not at all in prison or detention centre.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '一名空乘确诊，5名复工人员被隔离',。
A flight attendant was diagnosed and five reinstated workers were quarantined with service.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '3省5个监狱共确诊555例，司法部谈疫情细节漏洞',。
Ritle: & apos; 555 cases were diagnosed in five prisons in three provinces. & nbsp; & # 160; & # 45; & Justice & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
