冷冻电镜下的新冠病毒“侦查战”，西湖大学团队重要病毒解析登Science丨独家专访。
Frozen Microscopy for New Crown Virus "Reconnaissance Warfare," Western Lake University Team Critical Virus Analyses DenScience.
黄珊。
Huang Shan.
DeepTech深科技                      。
Deep Technology DeepTech.
DeepTech深科技。
Deep Technology DeepTech.
DeepTech是一家关注新兴科技产业化的全链条内容、服务、数据和投融资平台，致力于构建一个全球科技创新合作网络。
DeepTech is a whole chain of content, services, data, and investment and financing platforms that focus on the industrialization of emerging technologies, and is committed to building a global science, technology, and innovation collaborative network.
。
.
近日，中国工程院副院长、呼吸与危重症医学专家王辰院士在采访中提到，新冠病毒是有可能转成慢性的，像流感一样长期在人间存在的病，对此我们要做好准备。
Recently, the Vice-President of the Chinese Academy of Engineering and a specialist in respiratory and critical medicine, Wang Chen, said in an interview that the new crown virus could turn into a chronic, flu-like, long-term human disease, for which we must be prepared.
或许是认同这一判断，越来越多的药企和研究机构正加入研发新冠病毒疫苗和特效药的行列。
Perhaps in recognition of this judgment, a growing number of pharmaceutical companies and research institutions are joining the effort to develop a vaccine and specific drugs for the new crown virus.
在这场长跑中，有一环节让人类得以加速，那就是对于新冠病毒受体 ACE2 的完整结构解析，以及新冠病毒表面 S 蛋白与 ACE2 的复合物结构解析。
In this long-distance race, there is a link that allows humans to accelerate the analysis of the complete structure of the new crown virus receptor ACE2, as well as the complex structure of the new crown virus surface S protein and ACE2.
“在 SARS 病毒和新冠病毒侵入人体的过程中，ACE2 就像是‘门把手’，病毒抓住它，从而打开了进入细胞的大门”，西湖大学周强团队如此解释道。
"In the course of the SARS virus and the new crown virus invading the body, ACE2 acts as a 'door handle' and the virus catches it, opening the door to the cell," explains Zhou Qiang's team at West Lake University.
最近，透视这个 “门把手” 的重要研究，便出自这个实验室。
Recently, an important study on the "doorknob" came out of this laboratory.
图丨ACE2-B0AT1 复合物的冷冻电镜密度图（来源：西湖大学）美国东部时间 2020 年 3 月 4 日上午 10 点左右，Science 杂志在线发表了题为 “Structural basis for the recognition of the SARS-CoV-2 by full-length human ACE2” 的研究论文，报道了周强团队首次成功解析新型冠状病毒细胞表面受体 ACE2 的全长三维结构，以及新型冠状病毒表面 S 蛋白受体结合结构域与细胞表面受体 ACE2 全长蛋白复合物的三维结构，更进一步揭开新冠病毒入侵人体细胞的神秘面纱。
A study by The Cryoscope Density Map of the Map to the ACE2-B0AT1 Complex (Source: West Lake University) On March 4, 2020, Science Magazine published an online research paper entitled "Structural basis for the recognition of the SARS-CoV-2 by full-length protein complex of cell surface receptor ACE2."
周强研究员在接受 DeepTech 独家专访时解读道：“首先，我们第一次看清了全长宿主细胞受体 ACE2 的结构，而且看到 ACE2 以二聚体形式存在。
In an exclusive interview with DeepTech, Zhou Qiang explained: "First, we saw for the first time the structure of the full-length host cell receptor ACE2 and the presence of ACE2 as a dimer.
之前的工作只解析了 ACE2 的一部分结构，这个结构是单体状态，原因是因为缺少介导二聚化的结构域。
Previous work has only partially resolved the structure of ACE2, which is a monomeric state due to the lack of domain mediating dimerization.
这就好比你原来以为它是一只手工作的，而实际上它是两只手在一起工作的，增加了我们对它工作机理的认识。
It's as if you thought it was working with one hand, but it actually works with both hands, increasing our understanding of how it works.
随后，我们解析了病毒的 S 蛋白的受体结合结构域与全长 ACE2 复合物的结构，看清了它们二者的相互作用方式，这对于我们后续设计针对性的药物能够提供很好的参考。
Then we analyzed the structure of the receptor-binding domain of S protein and the full-length ACE2 complex, and saw how they interact with each other, which can provide a good reference for us to design targeted drugs.
”图丨周强（来源：西湖大学）在过去两年，实验室一直在研究人源氨基酸转运蛋白复合物的结构和功能，锁定了数种目标蛋白，ACE2 就是其中一种。
For the past two years, the lab has studied the structure and function of the human amino acid transporter complex, locking in several target proteins, including ACE2.
此后新冠肺炎疫情爆发，团队因此迅速提升 ACE2 研究工作的优先级，以最快速度取得研究成果，为后期药物研发提供了关键信息。
Since then, the new outbreak of pneumonia, the team quickly increased the priority of ACE2 research work, the fastest speed to obtain research results, for late drug research and development provides key information.
而这两项研究之前，西湖大学也已是国内少有的拥有顶尖冷冻电镜平台的高校之一。
Before these two studies, West Lake University is one of the few universities in China to have a top-notch cryoelectric mirror platform.
“自西湖大学成立以来，我们用最短的时间内成功建立了冷冻电镜平台，拥有两台世界上最先进的 Krios+K3 电镜设备，这为我们顺利解析这些复合物的结构奠定了硬件基础”，周强说。
"Since the establishment of the University of the West Lake, we have successfully built a cryoelectric mirror platform in the shortest possible time, with two of the world's most advanced Krios + K3 electron microscopy equipment, which provides a hardware foundation for the smooth analysis of the structures of these compounds," Zhou said.
2015 年，Nature 子刊 Nature method 就将冷冻电镜技术评为年度最受关注技术。
In 2015, the Nature sub-journal Nature method rated frozen-mirror technology as the most interesting technology of the year.
在过去几年里，冷冻电子显微镜技术逐渐成为结构生物学的重要研究工具。
In the past few years, cryonics microscopy has gradually become an important research tool in structural biology.
图丨曾因冷冻电镜获奖的三位科学家Joachim Frank 、Jacques Dubochet、Richard Henderson冷冻电镜技术的三位先驱者，也凭借对冷冻电镜技术的开拓和发展，获得了 2017 年诺贝尔化学奖。
Joachim Frank, Jacques Dubochet and Richard Henderson, the three pioneers of frozen-glass technology, also won the 2017 Nobel Prize for Chemistry for their pioneering work in cryoelectricity technology.
由于冷冻电镜的发展，各种生物大分子的结构能在接近生理状态下被精确解析。
As a result of the development of cryoelectric mirrors, the structures of various biomolecules can be precisely analyzed near the physiological state.
但需要指出，在这场病毒 “侦查战” 中，并非有了冷冻电镜就万事俱备。
However, it should be noted that in this virus "reconnaissance war," is not equipped with a frozen mirror everything.
因为，冷冻电镜能够发挥作用的关键前提之一是成功制备高质量的样品。
Because one of the key prerequisites for a cryoelectric lens to work is the successful preparation of high-quality samples.
周强进一步解释道：“在此次研究中最大的难点在于获取稳定的全长 ACE2 蛋白。
Zhou Qiang further explained: "The biggest difficulty in this study is to obtain a stable full-length ACE2 protein.
如果没有好的样品，空有强大的冷冻电镜也是巧妇难为。
If there are no good samples, empty of a powerful frozen mirror is also difficult for women.
ACE2 是一种膜蛋白，正常情况下我们很难获得稳定的全长 ACE2 蛋白。
ACE2 is a membrane protein and it is difficult to obtain stable full-length ACE2 protein under normal circumstances.
凭借前期研究的积累，我们通过共表达 B0AT1 和 ACE2 蛋白，成功地稳定住了 ACE2 蛋白，最终在此基础上解析了它的结构”。
With the accumulation of previous studies, we successfully stabilized ACE2 protein by expressing B0AT1 and ACE2 protein, and finally analyzed its structure.
和国内其他许多投身于此次疫情的科研团队一样，在两项成果发布之后，周强实验室很快又投入到了下一个阶段的研究中。
Like many other domestic research teams involved in the epidemic, Zhou Qiang's lab soon moved on to the next phase of research, following the release of the two results.
据了解，团队接下来的研究方向将是进一步探索 ACE2 与新冠病毒 S 蛋白相互作用，同时也积极与其他领域的研究者开展合作。
It is understood that the next research direction of the team will be to further explore ACE2 interaction with the new crown virus S protein, but also actively cooperate with researchers in other fields.
（来源：Science）在此次疫情中，国内科研界受到的关注也随着现实的发展被不断放大。
(Source: Science) In this epidemic, the domestic scientific research community with the development of reality has been constantly magnified.
公开报道显示，从病毒溯源、临床救治，到药物研制、疫苗研发，20 个省市设立了新冠肺炎科技应急专项，多所高校团队参与其中（此次西湖大学承担了浙江省 “新型冠状病毒肺炎防治应急攻关项目”），疫情中的“科研速度” 屡次成为舆论热点。
Public reports show that 20 provinces and municipalities have set up special projects for scientific and technological emergency response to the new coronavirus pneumonia in 20 provinces and municipalities, with the participation of many university teams (the university undertook the "New Coronavirus Pneumonia Emergency Tackling Project").
以此次疫情为契机，周强认为，其突然暴发给人民健康和社会、经济带来很大冲击和影响，在此情形下，科研界也迅速动员和行动起来共同应对疫情。
Taking the outbreak as an opportunity, Zhou Qiang believed that the sudden outbreak of the health and social and economic impact of the people, the scientific community also quickly mobilized and action to respond to the epidemic.
如何在发挥各自优势的同时开展紧密而高效的合作，是疫情给科研界提出的一个新问题，也会是科研界今后长期面临的一个问题。
How to develop close and efficient cooperation while giving full play to each other's advantages is a new problem to the scientific research community and will be a long-term problem in the future.
-End-。
- End-.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
冷冻电镜下的新冠病毒“侦查战”，西湖大学团队重要病毒解析登Science丨独家专访。
Frozen Microscopy for New Crown Virus "Reconnaissance Warfare," Western Lake University Team Critical Virus Analyses DenScience.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "DeepTech深科技";。
var nickname = & quot; DeepTech & quot;;
var msg_title = "冷冻电镜下的新冠病毒“侦查战”，西湖大学团队重要病毒解析登Science丨独家专访";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "近日，中国工程院副院长、呼吸与危重症医学专家王辰院士在采访中提到，新冠病毒是有可能转成慢性的，像流感一样长期";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; in an interview.
var title ="DeepTech深科技";。
var title = & quot; DeepTech & quot;;
