在武汉一线，他变身最酷的“骑士”。
On the Wuhan line, he became the coolest knight.
在武汉一线，他变身最酷的“骑士”。
On the Wuhan line, he became the coolest knight.
舒怀。
Comfort.
我们是有故事的人                      。
We are people with stories.
我们是有故事的人。
We are people with stories.
每一行都有认真的人，再平凡的人也有不平凡的故事。
There are serious people in every line, and even ordinary people have extraordinary stories.
华中科技大学出版社官方非虚构故事平台，有故事的人终将在这里相遇。
Huazhong University of Science and Technology Press official non-fiction platform, the story will eventually meet here.
。
.
- 疫情 之 下 -如今，针对医护人员的出行难，政府已出台各种措施，但还是有个别的需求难以得到满足。
- In the face of the epidemic - the Government has put in place various measures to address the travel difficulties of health-care workers, but there are still individual needs that cannot be met.
高宇说，他会一直坚持到医护人员交通困难问题缓解的那一天。
Gao said he would hold out until the day when the medical staff's traffic problems subsided.
”2020年1月23日，武汉市新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控指挥部发布公告，23日10时起，武汉市城市公交、地铁、轮渡、长途客运暂停运营，机场、火车站离汉通道暂时关闭。
On January 23, 2020, the Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command for the New Coronavirus Infection in Wuhan issued a notice announcing that the Wuhan Municipal Public Transportation, Subway, Ferry and Long-haul Passenger Transport would be temporarily closed at 10: 00 a.m. on the same day.
这是控制疫情的必要措施。
This is necessary to control the epidemic.
然而，这也给那些需要每天出行的人，尤其是奋战一线的医护工作者，带来了挑战。
However, it also poses a challenge for those who need to travel on a daily basis, especially those on the front lines.
1月24日下午2点12分，武汉市民高宇发现这一问题后，没有犹豫，当即就在朋友圈发布了一条信息：“有自愿免费为医护人员提供车辆接送服务的，速度联系我。
At 2: 12 p.m. on January 24, Min Gaoyu of Wuhan City, after discovering the problem, did not hesitate to post a message in his circle of friends: "There is a voluntary free medical personnel to provide vehicle transportation services, contact me at speed.
有较高感染风险，请考虑好。
There is a high risk of infection, please consider it.
不敢的，帮我转给敢的人。
Dare to help me to someone dauntless.
我微信电话同步，求帮转。
I'm tweeting. I need help.
高宇：****。
Gao Yu: * * * *.
满屏加油挺住的各位大神，我敢，你们谁陪我一起？”      他人生中最特殊的春节开始了……1.大年夜，变身“骑士”高宇，生于1975年，武汉一家4S店的一名管理人员。
The most special Spring Festival of his life began............................................................................................ "
1月24日，看到交通瘫痪后，很多医护人员一上班就是八个小时以上，下班了却不能及时回家休息，有的甚至要走路一个多小时上下班，他坐不住了，决定上阵。
On January 24, after seeing traffic paralyze, many medical workers had to work for more than eight hours, but could not come home in time to rest, and some had to walk more than an hour to work.
当时，武汉的志愿者车队建了三个微信群，分为武昌、汉口与汉阳三个区域。
At that time, Wuhan's volunteer team built three micro-groups, divided into Wuchang, Hankou and Hanyang regions.
高宇家在汉口，于是就进入了汉口群。
Gao Yujia was in Hankou, so he entered the Hankou group.
进群后没多久，高宇就接到了第一单需求，接送湖北省第三人民医院一位急诊科的护士下班回家。
Not long after entering the group, Gao Yu received the first demand to take a nurse from the emergency department of the Third People's Hospital in Hubei Province home from work.
他戴上口罩，穿上雨衣，套上手套与头套，架上护目镜，启动自己的艾瑞泽7，喜庆的红色，开了三年，没毛病。
He put on a mask, raincoat, gloves and headgear, goggles on his rack, and started his Erize 7, a festive red, three-year-old.
爱车转为拉力车，早已做完消毒，驶出小区，进入愁云惨淡的江城街道。
Love car into pull-up car, have done disinfection, drive out of the community, into the gloomy river city streets.
送达医院，他打开窗子，吹散病毒。
At the hospital, he opened the window and blew the virus away.
第一单结束，自己家也不敢回，就在车里坐着。
At the end of the first one, my family did not dare to return, just sat in the car.
忽然，微信叮咚一响，原来是刚刚急诊的医生给他发了30元的红包。
Suddenly, a micro-letter Jingdong ring, it was just the emergency doctor gave him a 30-yuan red envelope.
但高宇拒绝了，“我是义务接送哈。
But Gao Yu refused. "I'm a volunteer.
”随后，他开始返程，来到汉口火车站的家，刚要准备停车。
"He then returned to his home in Hankou railway station, just getting ready to stop.
三点半，电话来了，是他的一个交警朋友。
At 3: 30, the call came. It was a traffic cop friend of his.
微信视频那头声音焦急，“高宇，我正在附近路面执勤，有一个从外地回武汉的医生，出了汉口火车站，在路边拦了一个小时车，拦不到。
Gaoyu, I was on duty near the road. A doctor returning to Wuhan from another place stopped at Hankou Railway Station and stopped by the roadside for an hour without stopping.
我请示了领导，本来想送他，可是领导没批准。
I asked the leader, who wanted to give him a ride, but he didn't approve.
这不，刚好看到你接送医护的朋友圈，能不能过来接送下啊？”高宇迅速将艾瑞泽7调转，找到了朋友与医生等待的位置。
This is just to see you to see the medical care of the circle of friends, can you come over to pick up ah? "Gao Yu quickly Aireze 7 turned around, found a friend and doctor waiting for a place.
上车的汪强有点儿疲惫，也有点焦急：“谢谢，我去蔡甸人民医院。
Wang Qiang got on the bus a little tired and a little anxious: "Thank you, I went to Cai dian People's Hospital.
”高宇跟他攀谈两句：“家是哪儿的？医院那边发热多不多？”汪强对高宇说：“我是蔡甸人民医院的。
Gao Yu talked to him: "Where is home? Where is the fever in the hospital?" Wang Qiang said to Gao Yu, "I'm from Cai dian People's Hospital.
本来准备在合肥老家吃年夜饭的，没想到下午就已经收到了火神山要建设的消息，于是马上赶回武汉。
Originally planned to eat in his hometown of New Year's Eve dinner, did not expect that afternoon has received the news of the construction of the mountain god of fire, so immediately back to Wuhan.
正好我们蔡甸，正在抽调力量，而蔡甸人民医院很可能是被抽调的重点……”大年三十，街道上似乎没有一点气息。
Just as we Cai dian, is pulling out the power, and Cai dian People's Hospital is likely to be the focus of withdrawal...... "New Year's 30, the street does not seem to have any breath.
从汉口火车站到蔡甸人民医院，二三十公里样子，车内渐渐安静下来，车外是平远的路，丝毫不用担心堵车的状况。
From Hankou railway station to Cai Den People's Hospital, the car gradually quiet, the car is far away from the road, there is no need to worry about traffic jam.
40分钟，车停了，汪强对高宇表示感谢。
Forty minutes later, the bus stopped and Wang Qiang thanked Gao Yu.
高宇赞叹：“这个医生相当不容易，好不容易过年了，除夕夜都不能在家吃饭，得赶到医院救治病人，太伟大了。
"This doctor is not easy, after all, New Year's Eve can not eat at home, have to rush to the hospital to treat patients, it is too great.
”此后，两人再无联络。
"Since then, the two men have had no contact.
那这个医生后来有没有去火神山？高宇也不知道，“开车送人是我的事情，其他的，我哪儿知道呢？”下午5点12分，高宇从蔡甸赶回汉口，接第三个医生回长港路的家。
Did the doctor go to Mount Fire afterwards? Gao did not know, "It's my business to give someone away by car, how do I know the rest?" At 5: 12 p. m., Gao Yu hurried back to Hankou from Cai dian to take a third doctor back to his home on Changgang Road.
医生告诉高宇，他一个N95口罩戴了一个礼拜。
The doctor told Gao Yu that he had been wearing an N95 mask for a week.
因为不同科室有不同的量，防护资源不足，他们越发危险，只能拼自己的抵抗力。
Because different departments have different quantities, inadequate protection resources, they are more dangerous, can only spell their own resistance.
听罢，高宇这个大老爷们，边开车边流下了热泪。
Listen, Gao Yu this big man, while driving the car to shed the hot tears.
随后，他又接送了两次医护人员，横跨江汉、江岸、汉阳、武昌、蔡甸几个区。
Subsequently, he sent two more medical personnel, across Jianghan, River Bank, Han Yang, Wuchang, Cai dian several districts.
等到送完当天最后一位乘客，已是晚上6点多。
It was past six o'clock in the evening, when the last passenger of the day was finished.
他给自己的艾瑞泽7加满油，却不知接下来该去哪儿。
He filled his Arizer 7 with oil and didn't know where to go next.
疫情刚开始确定，整个城市在全力备战，空气中弥漫着恐慌、紧张的情绪，这个春节完全没有往年的氛围。
The outbreak is just beginning to be confirmed, the city is fully prepared for war, the air is full of panic, tension, this Spring Festival has no atmosphere as usual.
高宇担心自己有感染的风险，同时也不想让家人知道自己在做的事情而担心。
Gao worries about his own risk of infection and doesn't want his family to know what he's doing.
大年三十的晚上，高宇决定不回家吃年夜饭。
On New Year's Eve Gao Yu decided not to go home for New Year's Eve dinner.
反正他回家吃晚饭的日子本来就少，家里的父母也不会怀疑，单身一个人的生活容易搞定。
After all, when he comes home for dinner, his parents won't doubt that it's easy to handle a single person's life.
令他感动的是，他的朋友江汉交通大队付勇队长得知他没有回家吃年夜饭，连忙煮了饺子送给他，高宇开车回小区停车场，吃了这一碗特别的年夜饭。
He was moved, his friend Jiang Han traffic brigade Fu Yong learned that he did not go home to eat Chinese New Year's Eve dinner, rushed to boil dumplings to him, Gao Yu drove back to the parking lot, eat this special bowl of New Year dinner.
晚上7点45分，他接到了一个女护士的单子，“明天七点出门，大概八点上班。
At 7: 45 p.m., he received a list of female nurses. "Tomorrow at seven o'clock, about eight o'clock.
”高宇回复，“准时来接。
"Gao Yu replied," Come and answer on time.
”空荡荡的街道，没有鞭炮齐鸣，没有锣鼓喧嚣，很安静的夜晚，回到家中，过完了十二点，阴历年里，他45岁了。
"The empty streets, no firecrackers, no gongs and noise, very quiet night, returned home, after twelve, the lunar year, he was 45 years old.
2.城市之光，一起逆行1月25日一大早，高宇将自己的防护装备做了升级，将帽子换成了摩托车头盔。
In the early morning of January 25, Gao Yu upgraded his protective gear and changed his hat to a motorcycle helmet.
6：51分，他提前到达约定地点，开了双闪等待医护。
At 6: 51 he reached the appointed spot ahead of schedule and set out to double-flash for medical attention.
送到中心医院后，医护一定要送个口罩给高宇。
After taking him to the central hospital, the doctor must send a mask to Gao Yu.
高宇坚决不要。
Gao Yu resolutely refused.
结果，她偷偷扔到了高宇的车上。
As a result, she slipped into Goewoo's car.
接着，他接到了一对母女。
Then he received a mother and daughter.
妈妈在同济，女儿在古田路四医院上班。
My mother is in Tongji, and my daughter is working in Gutian Road Hospital No. 4.
她们在路上走了快一个小时，才联系到高宇。
They walked for nearly an hour on the road before they could get in touch with Gao Yu.
沿途的空的士，一听说是要去医院，都不愿意载她们。
Empty taxis along the way, when told they were going to the hospital, did not want to take them.
高宇将两位先后送达。
Gao Yu will send two people successively.
晚上9点35分，他送完最后一位医护，厚着脸皮让朋友下了一碗面。
At 9: 35 p. m., he finished off his last doctor and brazenly asked his friend for a bowl of noodles.
等车子即将到达时，他叮嘱朋友：“我不进小区了，你把面放在我车前盖上，不要跟我讲话，有话微信说……”江湖夜雨，灯火阑珊，他吃完了这碗“最好吃”的面，一口不剩。
When the car was about to arrive, he said to his friend: "I will not go into the district, you put your face in front of my car cover, do not talk to me, there is a message that..."
1月26日早上，群里有一个护士昨夜叫车，她要从古田二路到蔡甸中法医院。
On the morning of January 26, a nurse in the group called for a bus last night. She wanted to go from Gudantian Road to Cai Den Zhongfa Hospital.
高宇接到了她。
Gao Yu received her.
车上，护士袁凌纯感慨，封城后，没有了公交，一个人上班要走三个半小时，而她单位一个同事，更是走了四个小时上班。
On the bus, nurses Yuan Lingchun sigh, after the closure of the city, no public transport, a person to walk three and a half hours, and her unit a colleague, walked four hours to work.
高宇说，“这也太远了吧！”袁凌纯说：“可是，必须去啊！如果不去的话，别人下不了班，我要去接班的。
"This is too far!" Yuan Lingchun said: "But, must go! If not, others can not get off the shift, I will go to take the shift.
”高宇沉默了。
"Gao Yu was silent.
送达后，高宇说：“你要是下班不方便，可以群里叫我。
When it arrived, Gao Yu said, "If it is inconvenient for you to leave work, you can call me from the group.
”当夜，高宇护送袁凌纯回家。
That night, Gao escorted Yuan Ling-chun home.
原来，她是同济医院的，这天在中法医院参加培训。
Originally, she is Tongji Hospital, that day in the French-Chinese hospital to participate in training.
时间一长，高宇就发现了医护人员的痛点。
Over time, Gao Yu found out the pain of medical staff.
为了解决医护人员的上下班难题，医院设定了固定班车。
In order to solve the problem of commuting, the hospital has set a fixed bus.
但是，上下班只有一趟，行经线路与站点停靠时间都是固定的。
However, only one trip to and from work, the route and stop time is fixed.
如果要赶班车，医护人员就要步行到集合地点，有的离家会比较远，甚至有七八公里。
If there is a bus to catch, medical personnel have to walk to the assembly point, some will be far from home, even seven or eight kilometers.
而且，上班是统一的时间点，高宇只能接到一二个，下班就很难一致了。
Moreover, work is a unified time point, Gao Yu can only receive one or two, after work is very difficult to agree.
但是，下班时间又比较灵活，他一个人可以载几个人回去，前提是，只要对方愿意等。
However, the shift was flexible, and he could take several people home on his own, provided the other person wanted to wait.
每日出门，高宇会在车里储备些许酸奶、点心、面包等，肚子饿了，就吃一点。
Everyday out, Gao Yun will store some yogurt, snacks, bread and so on in the car, hungry, eat a little.
晚上回家，则有妈妈做的晚餐，简单热一热，吃饭完，他又开始处理群里的消息，定好明日一早接送医护的人数与行程。
When he got home at night, there was his mother's dinner, which was simply hot, and when he had finished eating, he began to work on the group's messages, fixing the number and itinerary to be delivered early tomorrow morning.
原先的群是分区域的，高宇发现这对跨越武汉三镇的医护人员上下班不利，于是他干脆建了一个群，不分区域远近，无条件地接送。
The original group was a sub-regional one, and Gaoyu found it detrimental to the commuting of medical staff across the town of Wuhan, so he set up a group to deliver it unconditionally, far and near.
很快，大群满了，为方便管理，又分了两个小群。
Soon, the crowd was full, and for ease of management, two small groups were formed.
一个是医护人员，另一个是司机。
One is a paramedic, the other a driver.
这样，他实现了医护需求与志愿司机的一一对接。
In this way, he achieved the need for medical care and volunteer drivers one by one docking.
没过多久，医护群就达到了三百多人。
Before long, the medical community reached more than 300 people.
2月4日，上午8点6分，他看到消息，有个年轻的男医生刘羽，从汉口姑嫂树到武昌省妇幼医院，叫不到车。
On February 4, at 8: 06 a.m., he saw news that a young male doctor, Liu Yu, was unable to get a bus from his sister-in-law in Hankou to the Women and Children's Hospital in Wuchang Province.
当时，他刚送完另一个医生，发现群里有消息，赶紧联系对方。
At that time, he had just sent another doctor, found a message in the group, quickly contact each other.
刘羽说：“我发了群消息，等了许久，看到没有人载我，现在已经骑了个摩拜，上了二环线，准备骑车过江。
"I sent a group of news, waited a long time, saw no one to drive me, and now I have ridden a Moby, got on the Second Ring Road, and is ready to cycle across the river," Liu said.
”高宇让他把位置共享打开，马上开车去二环线解救他。
"Gao Yu asked him to open the shared position and immediately drove to the Second Ring Road to free him.
8点16分，在二环线上，他接到了刘羽。
At 8: 16, on the Second Ring Line, he received Liu Yu.
刘羽将摩拜单车放到路边，坐到了后座位上，赶赴医院。
Liu Yu put Moby's bicycle on the side of the road, sat in the back seat and rushed to the hospital.
晚上9点半，武汉十一医院，高宇接到了一位刚下夜班的特殊医护人员。
At 9: 30 p.m., Wuhan 11 Hospital, Gao Yu received a new night shift from a special medical staff.
“向这位主动申请来支援武汉的四川广源医生致敬，她说武汉人之前支援过汶川，她应来报答武汉人。
"Tribute to the Sichuan Guangyuan doctor who volunteered to support Wuhan, saying Wuhan people had previously supported Wenchuan, and she should repay the Wuhan people.
”除了接送医护人员，他的业务还有送防护服、医疗器材等，简直无所不包……3.汉口“老杆”的原则这已经不是高宇第一次做爱心救助活动了。
In addition to transporting medical personnel, his business includes delivery of protective clothing, medical equipment and so on... This is not the first time that Gao Yu has done love rescue activities.
高宇是个汉口老杆，今年45岁。
Gao Yu is a Hankou veteran. He is 45 years old.
他喜欢摄影，从最起初的拍婚庆，到进入职业圈子，已有十年。
He loved photography, from the very beginning of the wedding, to enter the professional world, has been 10 years.
不过，他更爱的是越野车与摩托车，在武汉的越野与摩友俱乐部，小有名气。
However, he is more love off-road vehicles and motorcycles, in Wuhan's cross-country and Motorsport Club, a small reputation.
“老杆”，是由武汉流氓话“老枪”演变而来，指的是汉口原住民中的中年男人。
"Old rod", is from Wuhan hooligan language "old gun" evolved, refers to the Hankou Aborigine middle-aged men.
高宇面相显得老成，“朋友多、讲义气、有面子”，可叫老杆。
Gao Yu looks old-fashioned face, "many friends, speak the spirit of righteousness, face", can be called Lao rod.
武汉民俗学家葛亮说，比“老杆”年轻一点的是“竹杆”，再老可叫“老蔑皮”“老豁皮”。
Wuhan folklore expert Ge Liang said, than the "old pole" is a little younger "bamboo pole," and old can be called "Michaeli" "old open-skinned.
有人说，武汉的“老杆”，比魔都的“老克拉”多了嬉笑怒骂的务实感；比雾都的“袍哥”少了混迹社会的老规矩；比帝都的“老炮”更服膺生活的真相。
Some people say that Wuhan's "old stick," "old carat" more than Mordor's "pragmatic sense of fun and scold; less" muddy society "than the fog of the" robe "; the" old gun "more than the emperor of the truth of life.
大抵差不多。
About the same.
高宇出生在老汉口的高知家庭，家里有一个姐姐，已经嫁人。
Gaoyu was born in the Gaozhi family in LaoHankou. He had a sister who had married.
妈妈是位老医生，吉林人，先后在解放军野战医院、中山医院等工作。
Mother is an old doctor, Jilin people, in the PLA field hospital, Zhongshan Hospital and other work.
父亲是武汉人，高级建筑工程师。
Father is Wuhan, senior construction engineer.
作为医生的家属，他心里自觉就负担着一份责任。
As a family member of a doctor, he felt a responsibility in his heart.
在朋友眼中，他颇有侠气。
In the eyes of his friends, he was chivalrous.
2016年夏，高宇的车友与爱人在路途中，不小心翻车掉入了灌木丛生的山崖下。
In the summer of 2016, Gao Yu's fellow drivers and lovers were on their way when they overturned and fell off a scrub-covered cliff.
当时，他正在武汉上班，看到消息后，马上从武汉赶去大悟娘娘山。
At that time, he was working in Wuhan, saw the news, immediately from Wuhan to DazuiNianshan.
到达现场，几个消防官兵将车友的爱人用担架抬了上来，行将耗尽体力。
Arrived at the scene, several fire officers and soldiers will be the lover of a stretcher to lift up, is running out of energy.
旁边围观了许多人，却无能为力，只能干等着。
Surrounded by many people, but can do nothing but wait.
高宇二话不说，喊一声“让我来”，身上捆了绳子，赶紧下去。
Without saying a word, Gao Yu yelled "Let me come," tied the rope around him and hurried down.
他与另外三个消防官兵，将受伤的车友一起抬了上去，骨折的地方因而能及时送到医院施救。
He and three other fire officers and soldiers, will be injured with the car up, the fracture site can be sent to the hospital in time to help.
2017年夏，武汉雨季，汤逊湖发生洪水。
In the summer of 2017, the rainy season in Wuhan, Lake Townsend floods.
一个傍晚，玩车的群里，一位车友老家紧急求援，他的老家在武汉郊区的新洲凤凰镇，水灾影响到了城镇生活。
One evening, in a group playing with cars, a friend of his hometown, in the Wuhan suburb of Phoenix, New Chau, flood affected town life.
高宇看到了，马上与几个朋友一起号召捐款，第二天早上，就赶去超市买食物与物资等。
Gao Yu saw it, immediately with a few friends to call for donations, the next morning, on the supermarket to buy food and supplies.
一行人，十几台车开过去，解了灾区的燃眉之急。
A line of people, a dozen cars drove past, relief of the immediate needs of the disaster areas.
作为一名“老杆”，因为个性直爽，喜欢张口就喷人，朋友送他一个外号“喷子哥”。
As an "old stick", because of the forthright personality, like to open mouth on the spray, friends give him a nickname "Jasmine Brother."
2019年9月，武汉市发布“最严禁摩令”，扩大摩托车禁行范围，禁止摩托车进入三环线……然而不久，知音号上举行了一场41对的集体婚礼，游轮上摆放着几十辆摩托车。
In September 2019, Wuhan issued a "maximum ban on motorbikes," expanding the ban on motorcycles and banning them from entering the Third Ring Road... but soon after, a group wedding of 41 couples was held on the Boxer, with dozens of motorcycles on board.
高宇开怼了，“这不就是明令禁止，却公开违反吗?还有脸大肆宣传？”他认为，知音号属于一环以内，而结婚不属于紧急公务。
"Isn't that an explicit prohibition, but a blatant violation? And a face-hype?" He thought that a confidant was part of a link, while marriage was not an emergency.
经过这一喷，众多网友支持他，有那么几天，他一下子成了网红。
After this blowout, many netizens supported him, for a few days, he suddenly became a net red.
封城后，加入解救上下班困难的医护人员志愿者行列的他，不是空有满腔热血，而是有着自己的“资本”。
After the closure of the city, to join the ranks of relief workers with difficulty to work, he is not empty full of blood, but has their own "capital."
2007年，他集中锻炼过半年，身体一直很健康，用他的话就是“基础打得好”。
In 2007, he focused on six months of physical activity and has been in good health, what he calls "good grounding."
他的微信头像都是与摩托车的合影，平头，眼神锐利而坚定，洁白干练的T恤衫，坐在草地上，背后是敦实的摩托车。
His tweets were pictures of motorbikes with flat heads, sharp, firm eyes, white, crisp T-shirts, sitting on the grass behind solid motorbikes.
平时，他喜欢跟摩友们一起骑长途摩旅，高速800公里，国道500公里，他都跑过。
Usually, he likes to ride with friends on the long-distance motorcycle, 800 kilometers high speed, 500 kilometers of national roads, he ran.
“经历过长久摩托驾驶的人，再开汽车，就要舒服很多了。
"People who've been on a long motorcycle ride are much more comfortable driving a car.
没得比！”他的口气云淡风轻。
There is no comparison! "His voice was soft.
接送医护人员最早的一周，高宇每天只能睡三小时，五六点出门，等到睡觉已经是凌晨三点。
Gaoyu can only sleep three hours a day, go out at five or six, and wait until it's three o'clock in the morning.
他回家就比较晚，还要处理群里消息，白天也很少睡，接送医护到第三天时，精神头就不太足。
He came home late, had to deal with the news in the group, rarely slept during the day, and was not refreshed for the third day.
二十来天的接送中，有两天的中午十二点发困，他就打电话给医护，“不好意思，你另外找个人，我要休息下。
On two days of the twenty-odd days of the shuttle, when he was sleepy at 12: 00 noon, he called the paramedics. "Sorry, I'm looking for someone else.
”随后，他在车上咪半小时，继续投入到战斗中。
"He then continued to fight for half an hour in the car.
最多的一次，高宇一天接送了二十多个医护人员。
The most, Gao Yu a day to transport more than 20 medical personnel.
并不是每一个志愿者都有他的健壮体格，也并不是每个志愿者都有一颗无私的心。
Not every volunteer has a strong physique, and not every volunteer has a selfless heart.
时间久了，高宇发现，有的志愿者不愿意接社区服务中心，有的人是有条件的，收费不说，更是“远了不接，早了不接，晚了不接，小医院不接，男的不接”，而他的原则是“不管多远，只要等我，我就去”。
Over time, Gao Yu found that some volunteers are unwilling to accept community service centers, some are conditional, charges do not say, is "far away, early not to take, late not to pick up, small hospitals do not pick up, not men," and his principle is "no matter how far, as long as I wait for me to go.
高宇记得，他接的最长的一个单子，跑了70公里，是从武汉最西边的东西湖十三支沟，送到左岭的120医护急救站。
Gao remembered the longest list he had ever received, running 70 kilometers from 13 trenches in the westernmost lake in Wuhan to 120 medical and first aid stations in Zuolin.
这个120的护士，是几班倒，先上两天两夜班，再休息三天。
The 120-year-old nurse works several shifts and works two nights and three days off.
高宇的举动也感动了很多医生，有的坐高宇车的医生会给他带一份早餐，牛肉面或者热干面或者油条，有的会送他一副口罩，或者一盒牛奶，提醒他注意身体。
Some doctors in Gao Yu's car will bring him a breakfast, beef noodles or hot-and-dry noodles or tarpaulins. Some will give him a mask or a box of milk to remind him of his health.
有几个护士曾给他私下发红包，但是，高宇全部拒收了。
Several nurses had given him private red envelopes, but Gao Yu refused.
他对她们说：“我只是尽一份自己的力量，不想让你们上下班步行，不想让你们骑单车。
He said to them: "I'm just doing my part and I don't want you to walk to and from work. I don't want you cycling.
”每一趟接送之后，他会用装了75%酒精的喷壶，把车子全部喷一遍消毒，然后开车门通风三十分钟左右，再去接下一单的乘客。
"After each delivery, he would spray the car with a spray bottle containing 75 percent alcohol and then ventilate the door for about 30 minutes before picking up the next passenger.
从早上忙到晚上九点半才算完毕，回家妈妈已经热好了饭菜。
I was busy until 9: 30 in the morning, and my mother had warmed up the meal.
进门前，高宇把防护服脱掉、口罩摘下处理消毒。
Before entering the gate, Gao Yu takes off the protective clothing, takes off the mask to treat disinfection.
为了安全，这些天他一直把自己和家人隔离开来。
He's been keeping himself away from his family these days for safety's sake.
4.我不是英雄，也不是圣人“你建个平台才三百人？我建的三个微信群都千把人了，我和你有什么好规划的，你是为了赚钱，说那么好听干啥？你的平台好用你自己用，平台再好，人是不是不用司机开车送？用平台送？三点半你的平台能出车不？”2月5日，高宇狠狠地怼了一个邀请他加入的平台推广人。
I'm not a hero, I'm not a saint. "You built a platform just three hundred people? I built three micro-groups of people, you and I have a good plan, you are easy to use your own platform, the platform is good, people do not need to drive? Send platform? At 3: 30 your platform can drive?
起初，他找了几个女志愿者帮忙处理群里工作，可以更快对接医护人员的用车。
At first, he hired a few female volunteers to help with the group's work and docked the paramedics' cars more quickly.
等到晚上回家，他就来接管。
When he gets home in the evening, he'll take over.
然而，因为工作繁琐等，志愿者先后退出，只剩下高宇自己管理全部。
However, because the work is tedious, volunteers have quit, leaving only Gao Yu to manage all his own.
接送医护，他有自己的审核准则：1、发工作牌照片（或其他证件照片）。
He has his own audit criteria: 1. Issue a work plate photograph (or other photo identification).
2、车上和他合影（眼睛看镜头，避免说偷拍）。
Take a picture with him in the car (look at the camera and avoid snapping).
以上两点做不到，不好意思，请另外找车。
I'm sorry, but please find another car.
2月4日，高宇接到一位护士，上车后他要求拍个合影。
On Feb. 4, Gao Yu received a nurse. After getting on the bus, he asked for a picture.
护士一直低着头，高宇道，请把头抬起来。
Nurse has been bowed head, Gao Yun Road, please raise your head.
她问，为什么拍照要抬头?高宇说，怕说我是偷拍的。
Why, she asked, did she raise her head? Gao Yu said, afraid to say I was secretly filming.
然后，她抬起了头，扭向了窗外。
Then she looked up and turned out of the window.
接着，高宇叫她下车。
Then Gao Yu told her to get off.
她问，为什么?高宇道，我累了。
She asked, why? Goewoo, I'm tired.
她又问，那我没车怎么回家？高宇说，我怎么知道。
How am I going to get home without a car? said Gao Yu. How do I know?
然后，他当她的面删了照片，她又要高宇删了她微信，并检查手机相册（怕他存了）。
Then, when he deleted the photo in front of her, she asked Gao Yu to delete her microphone and check the album (for fear he might save it).
高宇照办。
Gao Yu obeys.
然后，她下车了。
Then she got off the bus.
对此，高宇有自己的道理，“我不是英雄，也不是圣人，我只尽义务做一点力所能及的事情。
"I am not a hero, I am not a saint, I only have the obligation to do something within my power.
我个人做这个事情，个人定了这个流程，而且我也不需要解释。
I personally do this, I personally set the process, and I do not need to explain.
为什么要拍合照，能接受的，就送，不能接受，自己想办法。
Why to photograph group photograph, can accept, send, cannot accept, oneself think a way.
认识我的人，都知道，我脾气不好，所以不要认为我有多好，我也不会在意旁人怎么看我。
People who know me know that I have a bad temper, so don't think how good I am, I don't care what other people think of me.
”5.一场疫情，世间百态2月3日，志愿者何辉因感染新冠肺炎去世，一些志愿者很伤心。
On February 3, some volunteers, Ho Hui, died of pneumonia in the New Crown. Some of them were very sad.
事实上，面对新冠状病毒的肆虐，当时最早一批的志愿者，能够坚持下来的也少了，新加入的志愿者也在后浪推前浪。
In fact, in the face of the new coronavirus ravages, the earliest group of volunteers, can insist on less, the new volunteers are also in the forefront of the wave.
对于何辉的去世，高宇表示惋惜，“他可能之前就感染了，只跑了两三天的车子。
He died, Gao expressed regret, "he may have been infected before, only run two or three days of the car.
很多人问我为什么不怕感染新冠肺炎，其实我想说：我这种没心没肺的人，没有肺，拿什么感染？当然不怕了。
Many people ask me why I am not afraid of contracting pneumonia, in fact, I would like to say: I have no lung, what infection? Of course not afraid.
”志愿者们相互间比较独立，各接各的单子，不是一个整体，只是殊途同归。
The volunteers were more independent of each other, responding to separate lists, not as a whole, but as one.
对于社区，高宇是既理解其人数少难办事的苦衷，又恨铁不成钢。
For the community, Gao Yu is both understanding the number of difficult things to do, but also hate iron.
政府下发文件，要求社区宣传优先安排接送医护人员，结果，不少社区做不到接送医护人员。
As a result of the Government's document requesting the community to prioritize the transport of health-care workers, many communities were unable to do so.
有的不但不送，还把高宇的电话直接给医护人员。
Some not only do not send, but also Gao Yu's telephone directly to the medical staff.
高宇找对方理论，原来因为怕感染，司机所在的公司不允许派到社区的司机接送医护人员。
Gao reasoned that because of fear of infection, the driver's company was not allowed to send drivers to the community to pick up the paramedics.
同时，又拍照拍视频宣传在社区接送医护人员……高宇愤愤不平，“拿了钱不干活还想听大家的赞美，然后我们这些非各大公司平台的傻子司机去接送，还直接把我的电话给医护人员。
At the same time, we took photos and video to promote the delivery of medical personnel in the community... Gao Yu angrily, "take money not to work and want to listen to praise, then we are not major corporate platforms stupid drivers to pick up, but also directly to my phone to the medical staff.
最搞笑的就是，汉阳某社区自己有车不安排，社区的工作人员联系我一个住江汉的，要我帮接送，我是看在医护人员造业，送了，还是从汉阳送盘龙城。
The funniest thing is that a community in Hanyang has their own car arrangements, the community staff contact me to live in Jianghan, I want to help pick up, I see in the medical workers, delivered, or sent from Hanyang to Panlong City.
这些事，社区干部有点无奈，社区压力大，根子在那些拿了钱的各种车的平台，平台靠这赚钱，还想趁机会露脸打广告。
These things, community cadres a little helpless, community pressure, roots in those who took the money of the various car platforms, platform money, but also want to take the opportunity to face advertising.
”令高宇心灰意冷的时候不止这一次。
It was not only this time that Gaoyu was disheartened.
2月4日晚上，他接到了一个护士跟他谈价格，而原因是其爱人想省一点点油钱。
On the night of February 4, he got a nurse to talk to him about the price because his wife wanted to save a little fuel.
他怒了，“我每天起早贪黑不吃不睡为什么？为了当英雄？为了一声谢谢？为了骗医护人员一个戴口罩的合影？我是冒着生命危险啊，包括我父母的生命啊！你自己有车不想开车送老婆就算了，你连钱都想省？其实我送了这么多天，我早看出来了，哪一个小区都不便宜，但凡结了婚的，家里肯定是有车的，就算有些家里有特殊情况，但是有车不开等着我们免费送的一定还有。
He was furious, "Why do I get up every morning and not go to bed? To be a hero? For a thank you? To deceive a medical staff wearing a mask? I'm risking my life, including my parents' life!
但是我不想说，我还是能送就送，装个苕（武汉话，傻子）。
But I do not want to say, I still can deliver, pack a Tiaoxia (Wuhan dialect, silly).
”于是，他开始对每位用车人员多花点时间了解情况，确保每位是真的需要用车。
So he began spending more time with each car driver to make sure everyone really needed the car.
2月5日，有好心人提醒他，“高宇兄弟，武汉疫情比我们想象的严重。
On February 5, a kind man reminded him, "brothers, Wuhan is more serious than we thought.
上次你送的那个医生2月1日被感染了，目前医院床位紧缺，都吃药在家自行隔离。
The last doctor you sent was infected on Feb. 1, and there is a shortage of hospital beds.
你一定要引起重视，注意防护啦！”随后，他拍了一段自拍视频，发到朋友圈，“万一我挂了，你们可以看一下我最后的样子。
Then he took a video of himself and sent it to his friends. "If I die, you can have a look at my last look.
”这天，他所在的小区贴出公号，“我们小区现在有发热病人5例，已送走一个，这六例分别是……”高宇看了下，还好，没有他所在的单元。
"On this day, his community posted the official number," We have 5 cases of fever patients in the community, has sent one, these six cases are... "
6.没有情人的情人节早在1月25日中午，在得知高宇接送医护之时，高宇的母亲表示了强烈反对，“你要做什么？你在家里不出去，就是对抗病毒最好的方式。
Valentine's Day without a lover came as early as noon on January 25, when Gao Yu was being taken to hospital, Gao's mother expressed her strong disapproval, "What are you going to do
你不要好心帮倒忙，就听一下我这个当了一辈子医生的妈妈的话吧！”高宇回复：“我没事，我抵抗力好。
Instead of trying to be kind, listen to my mother, who has been a doctor for the rest of her life! "Gao Yu replied," I'm all right.
”后来，看着高宇固执不变，高宇妈妈就没有办法，拦不住，也就随他去了。
"Later, looking at Gao Yu stubbornly invariable, Gao Yu mother has no way, can not stop, also went with him.
其实，在参与接送医护人员之前，他就做了最坏的打算：“我就是抱着肯定会被感染的心态来做这个事，就是说假设我最后被感染了，但我不会有生命危险，我是可以被治愈的，所以我不害怕。
In fact, he did the worst before taking the paramedics: "I did it with the certainty of being infected, that is to say, assuming I ended up infected, but I wouldn't be in danger, I could be cured, so I wasn't afraid.
”2月6日下午，妈妈感冒了，家里没人照顾做饭，高宇只好暂停出车。
On the afternoon of February 6, his mother caught a cold and no one in the house took care of the cooking.
他下厨炒菜，照顾妈妈。
He cooks and cooks and takes care of his mother.
他自嘲，“开得一手好车，扯得一手好皮，下得一手好面。
"He laughed to himself," A good car, a good pull, and a good hand.
”12号，母亲感冒病愈。
"On the 12th my mother recovers from her cold.
缺席5天后，看到志愿者车队开始减少，他决定再次逆行，王者归来。
After five days of absence, seeing the volunteer fleet begin to dwindle, he decided to go backwards again and return.
“兄弟们坚持两天，这几天车子越来越少，你们辛苦了。
"Brothers for two days, these days fewer and fewer cars, you have worked hard.
我马上归队。
I'll be right back.
”这天，高宇遇到了一位“违约”的医护人员。
That day, Gao encountered a medical worker who had "defaulted."
中午两点多，他接到了亚心医院护士方玲的约车，晚上六点左右出发，返回汉阳七里庙家中。
More than 2: 00 noon, he received the Axin Hospital nurse Fang Ling's appointment, set out around 6 p.m., returned to the Hanyang QiLi Temple home.
结果，高宇送完上一位护士人员后，提前到。
As a result, Goewoo arrived early after delivering his last nurse.
到了六点钟，方玲打电话不接，微信不回。
At six o'clock Fang Ling did not answer the phone.
一直到七点四十，又有一个护士叫车，他只好抱歉。
At 7: 40 another nurse called, and he had to apologize.
“我只能走了，不能让下一个也等。
"I've got to go, not the next one," he said.
”后来，方玲联系到他，对他表示抱歉，刚刚一直在加班。
Later, Fang Ling contacted him and apologized for working overtime.
高宇开玩笑，“刚刚放我鸽子的，现在我再从硚口去沌口接她。
Gao Yu joked. "Just put me on pigeon, now I pick her up from the morsel."
虐我千百遍，如初恋。
Mistress me a thousand times, like first love.
”2月14日凌晨转钟，与往年鲜花美酒饭局种种浪漫不同的是，疫情下，同守一室的夫妻恋人依偎着，同城却不能彼此相见的情人们（哪怕是隔离者）通过电话、视频形式开始“云约会”。
In the early hours of February 14, unlike previous romantic situations where couples who share a room snuggle up with each other, even the isolated ones, start "cloud dating" by telephone and video.
年已45岁的高宇依然是过着单身一人的生活。
At the age of 45, Gao still lives a single life.
他曾有过不合适的爱情，但“因为穷”，且将积蓄都奉献给了摩托与车子，买不起房，始终没有进入婚姻。
He had an inappropriate love affair, but "because he was poor" and had given all his savings to motorcycles and cars, could not afford to buy a house and never entered into marriage.
他感慨，“情人节办的第一件事居然是安排给蒲江捐赠车辆的通行证盖章，又迎来了一个没有情人的情人节。
"The first thing I did on Valentine's Day was to arrange a laissez-passer for Pope to donate vehicles," he lamented.
”4点50分起床，5点一刻出门，天色依然是黑漆漆的。
"Get up at 4: 50 and go out at a quarter past five. It was still dark.
5点29分，他在解放大道接到了一位，还要等待另外两位医护的前来。
At 5: 29 he met a man on Liberty Avenue, awaiting the arrival of two other paramedics.
5点54分，先送到武汉市一医院。
At 5: 54, take it to a hospital in Wuhan.
6点13分，送到汉阳医院。
6: 13, to Hanyang Hospital.
他将脑袋用黑头套包裹起来，戴上帽子，半个白色口罩露在外面，只留两只眼睛与小半个额头，有点儿克里斯托弗·诺兰电影中蝙蝠侠黑暗骑士的样子。
He wrapped his head in a black hood, put on his hat, and let half of his white mask hang out, leaving only two eyes and half his forehead, a bit like the dark knight of Batman in Christopher Nolan's movie.
其后，在接送医护人员的空袭，他还抽空为江汉大队给蒲江捐赠车队的司机们开通行证明盖章，并将车队送到岱黄高速入口，看着这一队运送救援物资的车辆驶出，有一位一线警员默默地向所有援助武汉的同胞们致敬。
Then, in an air raid to pick up the paramedics, he found time to issue a pass stamp for the drivers of the JiangHan Group's convoy to Pu Jiang and take the convoy to the Dai Huang expressway entrance. As the convoy drove out of the convoy, a frontline police officer paid a silent tribute to all his fellow Wuhan rescuers.
这天，他的轨迹遍布武汉多家医院，有一医院、汉阳医院、儿童医院、中山医院、同济医院、武汉紫荆医院、四医院、六医院，而接送医护人员达十余位。
On this day, his trajectory throughout Wuhan a number of hospitals, there is a hospital, Hanyang Hospital, Children's Hospital, Zhongshan Hospital, Tongji Hospital, Wuhan Bauhinia Hospital, four hospitals, six hospitals, and the transport of more than a dozen medical personnel.
傍晚六点，中央气象台发布暴雪蓝色预警：预计2月14日20时至15日20时，辽宁中东部、吉林东南部、山东北部、湖北东北部和西部山区、安徽大别山区等地有大雪。
At 6 p.m., the Central Meteorological Station issued a blizzard blue warning: Between 2000 and 2000 hours on February 14, heavy snow was expected in central and eastern Liaoning, southeastern Jilin, northern Shandong, northeastern and western Hunan, and Dabie mountain areas of Anhui Province.
暗夜渐深，外头开始狂风怒号，电闪雷鸣，似乎要将天地劈开。
Deep into the night, the wind began to roar outside, thunder, as if to split the world.
高宇总结道，“今天任务完成的不错，明天早上一点不到起床出车。
Gao Yu concluded, "Today is a good day to get out of bed before 1: 00 am.
我不相信官宣的24小时待命，我只相信我自己24小时出车，我从不待命，直接出车。
I don't believe in 24-hour standby. I just believe I'm on 24-hour commute. I'm never on standby.
”2月15日一大早，武汉城区，雪花纷纷扬扬，天地为之一新，道路滑冻，行驶分外小心。
Early in the morning of February 15, Wuhan city, snowflakes swirling, a new world, the road slippery, driving very carefully.
中午12点3分，武昌区南湖长虹桥，高宇接到一个女护士，“她每天骑一个半小时自行车上下班，今天下雪，不能骑车。
At 12: 03 noon, Wuchang Nanhu ChangHong Qiao, Gao Yu received a female nurse, "she rode a bike to and from work for an hour and a half every day, it snows today, can not ride a bike.
”二十二分钟后，他抵达仁寿路社区卫生服务站。
Twenty-two minutes later, he arrived at the Yan Shou Road Community Health Service Station.
这里，高宇接送过十几号人。
Here, Gao Yu picked up more than a dozen people.
高宇说，各大平台都在服务医护人员，但并不能够覆盖全部人群。
Each platform serves health-care workers, but it doesn't cover the entire population, Gao said.
譬如，最大的网约车平台滴滴，其接送医护方面，像同济协和类的大医院有500个名额，一般医院有200个名额，社区卫生服务站就属于三不管地带，不仅没有名额，志愿者也不太愿意接。
For example, the largest networked car platforms, such as Tongji Concorde-type large hospitals, have 500 places, general hospitals have 200 places, and community health service stations are in a zone of neglect. There are no places, and volunteers are less willing to accept them.
夜色里，雪依然在下。
The snow was still falling in the night.
高宇仍然在路上。
Gao Yu is still on his way.
空旷的街道上，武汉大道两侧的高楼闪耀着血红色的通体的灯，上面用黄色字体写着“武汉必胜”“中国必胜”。
On the open streets, buildings on both sides of Wuhan Boulevard glowed with blood-red body lights in yellow letters that read Wuhan Must Win and China Must Win.
2月15日晚上，风雪夜归。
On the night of Feb. 15, the snow came back at night.
9点45分，他在群里@所有人，“明天早上6点20分准时在武胜路四医院门口集合上车，过时不候，收到请回复。
At 9.45 a.m., he was in the group @ everyone. "Tomorrow morning at 6: 20 a.m. at the door of Wusheng Road 4 Hospital on time to get on the bus.
”很快，群里有4个医护人员先后回复“收到”。
"Soon after, four medical workers in the group replied," Received.
高宇自我嘲讽，“硬生生把自己从一个黑的士玩成了黑巴士。
"Gao Yu self-mocked," suddenly played from a black taxi into a black bus.
”2月16日早上，高宇今天又接到了袁凌纯。
On the morning of February 16, Gao Yu received Yuan Ling-chun again today.
高宇问：“换地方了？”袁凌纯说：“我是同济本部的，上回是去中法医院那边参加培训。
"Change of place?" Yuan Ling-chun said: "I am Tongji home, the last time is to go to the side of the French-Chinese hospital for training.
这回到本部，距离上就近一点啦！辛苦你啦！”如今，针对医护人员的出行难，政府已经出台了各种措施，但还是有个别的需求难以得到满足。
Now the government has put in place measures to deal with the travel difficulties of medical staff, but there are still individual needs that cannot be met.
高宇说，他会一直坚持到医护人员交通困难问题缓解的那一天。
Gao said he would hold out until the day when the medical staff's traffic problems subsided.
在今天的武汉，高宇只是众多默默为抗击疫情做贡献的普通人之一。
In Wuhan today, Gao Yu is just one of many ordinary people who silently contribute to the fight against the epidemic.
身边像他这样义务接送医护人员的私家车司机不下200人，其中有十余位在他的影响下，加入了志愿者行列。
There are no fewer than 200 private car drivers like him who volunteer to transport medical staff, and a dozen of them joined the ranks of volunteers under his influence.
他们说，“高大哥，我想和你一样。
They said, "Big Brother, I want to be like you.
”（除高宇外均为化名）-END-图文|舒怀，青年作者/《大武汉美食榜》主编，资深媒体人，美食博主。
"(alias except Gao Yu) - END-picture & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Young author / Editor-in-Chief of Wuhan Gourmet List, senior media worker, and gastronomic blogger.
/华中科技大学出版社·武汉战“疫”数博馆抗击新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情作品资料正在征集中——【征集要求】＊来稿应为未公开发表和出版的内容，题材不限，VLOG、文字、图片等均可，务必客观真实，​反映疫情当下的民生现况及个人见闻；＊提供作品者都将获得华中科技大学出版社提供的“宅家悦读大礼包”；＊作品一旦录用，将提供完整规范的版权保护。
2007-9-19 15: 19 2007-11-19 14: 23 2007-11-19 15: 19 2007-11-19 15: 19 2007-06-19 09: 19 2007-06-19 09: 19 2007-06-17 09: 19 2007-06-12 09: 19: 07 2007-06-12 09: 19: 40 2007-06-19 19: 19 2008-12-19 17: 19
【投稿方式】音视频：2279281426@qq.com文字：423322329@qq.com图片：454578039@qq.com或点击下方链接直接投稿http://2019ncov.xiushewang.com/请务必留下真实姓名及详细联系方式。
Audio and Video: 2279281426 @ qq.com Text: 423322329 @ qq.com Photo: 454578039 @ qq.com or click the link below to contribute directly http: / / 2019ncov.xiushewang.com / Please make sure to leave your real name and contact details.
“我故”故事练习生培养计划，详情请戳：培养计划|加入“故事创造营”，你就是未来写作之星！About us主编：鹿｜本期编辑：鹿Contact us投稿/商务合作/咨询微信后台留言or 邮箱：wmsygsdr@163.com我们是有故事的人｜华中科技大学出版社官方故事平台。
I Am Here Story Training Program, for details: Join the Story Creation Camp, where you are the star of future writing! Deer Contacts / Business Collaboration / Consultation Letter Backstage Message or Mailbox: wmsygsdr @ 163.com We are storytellers, official story platform at HUST Press.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
在武汉一线，他变身最酷的“骑士”。
On the Wuhan line, he became the coolest knight.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "我们是有故事的人";。
Var nickname = & quot; We are someone with a story & quot;;
var msg_title = "在武汉一线，他变身最酷的“骑士”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; &
var msg_desc = "他说：我不是英雄，也不是圣人。
var msg _ desc = & quot; he says: I'm not a hero, or a saint.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="我们是有故事的人";。
Var title = & quot; We are someone with a story & quot;;
