「国难财」中的魍魉魑魅。
The Yao Ming of evil spirits.
左异。
On the left.
偶尔治愈                      。
Occasionally cured.
偶尔治愈。
Occasionally cured.
记录人与疾病、衰老、死亡的相处方式。
Document how people relate to illness, old age and death.
。
.
生死防控的悲欢错叠中，隐藏着逐利「国难」的魑魅魍魉。
Life and death control in the overlapping, hidden profit-making "national tragedy" of evil spirits.
2 月 28 日，京海康佰馨医药有限责任公司发布声明，就董事长李东售假 3M 口罩（涉案金额 430 余万）致歉。
On February 28, Beijing Hai-kang Bai Xin Medicine Co. Ltd issued a statement apologizing for Chairman Li Dong's sale of fake 3M masks, which involved more than 4.3 million yuan.
尘埃未定时，健客网创始人苏展，则实名举报在 CEO 谢方敏的运作下，进行三无口罩经销及关联物价哄抬，「坑害社会」。
Dust is uncertain, the founder of the health network Su Jian, the real name reported under the operation of CEO Xie Fangmin, three no-mask distribution and associated price increases, "harm the community."
苏展举报及声明图源：受访者提供成立于 2007 年的健客网，营业主体为广州云医惠药有限公司（下称「云医惠药」），执照登记机关为为广州市黄埔区市场监督管理局。
Source of the Report and Statement: The respondents provided the Health Guest Website set up in 2007, which is mainly operated by Guangzhou Yunmei Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. The licensing authority is the Huangpu District Market Supervision Authority of Guangzhou.
健客网不仅取得此前互联网药品交易所需的 B 和 C 证，更于 2017 年获国家食品药品监督管理总局 A 证，领航医药电商行业。
In addition to obtaining the B and C certificates required for previous Internet drug transactions, HJN was certified A by the State Administration of Food and Drug in 2017, leading the pharmaceutical and electronic commerce industry.
2018 年完成 B 轮 1.3 亿美元融资后，曾规划美股上市。
After completing the $130 million round of B financing in 2018, the U. S. stock listing was planned.
目前，健客网对外表示，苏建所言为恶意捏造，搬弄是非。
Current, healthy guest net expresses, what Su Jian says is maliciously fabricate, tell right and wrong.
不过，谢方敏及总裁办主任左利民，均未回应「偶尔治愈」的事实核查请求。
However, neither Mr Xie nor the Director of the CEO's Office, Lim-min Zuo, responded to the "occasional cure" request for fact-checking.
而经投诉信息梳理及相关证据分析，「偶尔治愈」发现，集中于健客网的问题繁杂，远未明晰。
After combing the complaints and analyzing the relevant evidence, the "occasional cure" found that the problem of concentrating on the health-care network is complicated and far from clear.
投诉不断经新浪旗下 315 平台「黑猫投诉」，针对健客网的维权申诉不断，且均在「处理中」状态。
Through Sina 315 platform "Black Cat Complaints", the complaints against the health-care network are constantly, and are "in the process of processing."
其中，最为蹊跷的是，多有消费者反映，健客网标注为「医用外科口罩」的商品，实发却为无任何标识的一次性薄片口罩。
The most curious thing is that many consumers reported that the product labelled "Medical Surgical Mask" on the website was actually a disposable thin mask without any logo.
当联系客服交涉时方发现，原订单亦被健客网对应「修改」。
When contacting the customer service representatives, it was found that the original order was also "modified" by HPN.
单号和购买时间未变，「医用外科口罩」却替换为「医用一次性蓝色无纺布口罩」。
The order number and purchase time remained the same, but the term "medical surgical mask" was replaced by "medical disposable blue non-woven mask."
被健客网替换的口罩产品图源：投诉者微博健客网客服针对此的回复，则为「缺货」，「国家征用」，「工作人员正在休假」甚至「问心无愧」等。
Source of Mask Products Replaced by HPN: Responses to this are "stock out of stock," "national requisition," "staff on leave" and even "clear conscience."
「偶尔治愈」了解到，上述健客网所售医用外科口罩，为广东宏瑞医疗器械有限公司生产的「梅花」品牌。
"Occasional Healing" understands that the surgical masks sold on the website are "plum blossom" brands made by Guangdong Hongrui Medical Devices Co. Ltd.
注册产品标准 YY0469-2011 。
Registered Product Standard YY0469-2011.
被健客网私自更换发货的一次性无纺布口罩，出货单显示厂商，为并不存在的广州市仕骤诚无纺布制品有限公司。
Translated Description: Health Net replacement of disposable non-woven mask delivery, the list of manufacturers, for the non-existent Guangzhou Shixuncheng non-woven products Co. Ltd.
涉及此的质疑增多后，健客网回应，广州市仕骤诚无纺布制品有限公司错误，合作方为广州市仕璟诚无纺布制品有限公司且产品符合质检要求。
Involved in this increase in doubts, Jianguest net response, Guangzhou Shixuncheng non-woven products Co. Ltd. error, cooperation for Guangzhou prosperous non-woven products limited company and products meet the quality inspection requirements.
健客网更改此前的「医用一次性蓝色无纺布口罩」为「一次性蓝色无纺布口罩」图源：健客网仕璟诚公司在《中国经营报》采访时表示，供货于健客网的一次性无纺布口罩，为外贸业务中出口韩国的库存，共计 10000 只。
Translated Description: Medical disposable blue non-woven mask map source: Health Jing Cheng Cheng Company said in an interview with China Business News, the supply of non-woven masks on the website, a total of 10,000 Korean stocks for export business.
工商信息显示，仕璟诚公司于 2019 年 12 月获得医疗器械质量管理体系认证，由此新增业务范围为一次性医用无纺布（非灭菌）口罩的生产和销售（出口至欧美及泰国）。
Business information shows, prosperous firm obtains medical equipment quality management system certification in December 2019, this new business scope is disposable medical non-woven cloth (non-sterilization) production and sale (exports to Europe, America and Thailand).
此外，仕璟诚公司申请的「一片口罩」商标，目前尚处等待实质审查程序。
In addition, our company applies for "a mask" trademark, is still waiting for the substantive examination procedure.
广州市黄埔区市场监督管理局则回应媒体道，已针对健客网销售三无口罩的举报，展开 3 次调查取证，并「依法对当事人涉嫌销售假冒伪劣口罩的行为进行立案」。
In response to media reports, the Huangpu District Market Surveillance Administration of Guangzhou has launched three investigation and evidence-gathering activities in response to reports of the sale of three masks on the website.
康佰馨李东等已被检查机关提起公诉，其违法方式为，自个体商户进货侵权 3M 商标的不合标口罩加价销售。
Kimberly-Clark Li Dong and other authorities have been prosecuted, the violation of the law is from the purchase of goods infringement 3M brand non-standard masks sold at a premium.
健客网是否存在类似行为，以及篡改订单所涉金额等，尚待相关部门调查公示。
Whether there is similar behavior on the website, as well as tampering with the amount of order, etc. are yet to be investigated by the relevant departments.
不过，广州市黄埔区市场监督管理局对健客网「哄抬物价」的情况，则认定为「暂未发现」。
However, the Huangpu District Market Supervision Authority of Guangzhou considered the situation of "price hike" of the Guinness website as "not yet discovered."
微博及「黑猫投诉」等平台显示， 1 月间，健客网所售诸如由广州市冠桦劳保药品有限公司生产的 8860 型 GB2626-2006 KN90 标准 10 片装口罩，定价为 128 元；但同期京东第三方及淘宝平台售价，则分别为 10 片 10 元上下及 50 片 22 元左右。
According to the Weibo and Black Cat Complaints platforms, in January, HJN sold 10-piece mask with standard price of 128 for model 8860 GB2626-2006 KN90 produced by Guanghua Laboratories Ltd. Guangzhou. However, the selling prices of Jing Dong's third-party and Taobao platforms were around $10 and $50 respectively.
变相加价的情况，亦被提及。
Variation mark-ups are also mentioned.
如相关投诉中，自健客网购买日产口罩 6 袋（ 1 袋 2 只装）计 454 元，实际到货却为 6 袋单只装另款类型口罩。
In response to the complaint, SUN purchased 6 bags of Nissan masks (1 pack of 2 packs) for $454. However, 6 bags of masks were actually delivered.
禁区屡触广州市黄埔区市场监督管理局介入下，健客网相关广东宏瑞及广州仕骤诚的产品均显示缺货。
With the intervention of Huangpu District Market Supervision Bureau, the products of Guangdong Hongrui and Guangzhou Shutcheng show that the products are out of stock.
而此前无任何标识，货单显示为广州市仕骤诚无纺布制品有限公司的「医用一次性蓝色无纺布口罩」，则更换为「 SJC 」一次性蓝色无纺布口罩，添加厂商为广州市仕璟诚无纺布制品有限公司。
Before there is no sign, the bill of lading for Guangzhou Shixuncheng non-woven products Limited "medical disposable blue non-woven mask," replaced with "SJC" disposable blue non-woven mask, add the manufacturer of Guangzhou prosperous non-woven products Co. Ltd.
同时，健客网的口罩销售转而以广州市创卫劳保用品有限公司生产的「联友」和「创卫」品牌，且主推套装销售。
At the same time, the net sales of masks to Guangzhou Chuang Wei Labor Products Co. Ltd. production of "Union Friends" and "Chuang Wei" brand, and sales of the main sales kits.
商品信息显示，一对口罩的搭配产品，除维 C 及减肥等保健品外，更「捆绑」于拜瑞妥、拜新同、诺欣妥、络活喜等 3 盒以上购买量的处方药物。
Commodity information shows that a pair of mask products, in addition to vitamin C and weight loss health products, but also "bundled" in Bayerido, Bayxin Tong, Novartis, Luo Wan Xi and more than three prescription drugs.
健客网将口罩与处方药等搭配进行套餐销售图源：健客网作为三证均持的医药电商，健客网曾将部分处方药纳入双十一「健康囤货节」的宣传促销活动。
The website uses a combination of masks and prescription drugs to carry out package sales. As a third card holder, HJN has included some prescription drugs in its promotional campaign for the Double-Eleven Health Hoarding Festival.
另据工商信息统计，2016 至 2019 年，健客网涉广告及销售的行政处罚达 33 次。
According to business information statistics, between 2016 and 2019, health-care users involved in advertising and sales of administrative penalties up to 33 times.
由苏展引发的舆论关注逐渐扩大后，健客网再将处方药与口罩的套装上架商品移除，并以云医惠药名义声明：苏展并非「我司董事」，且因破坏生产经营罪「畏罪潜逃」。
After the public opinion aroused by the Soviet exhibition gradually expanded, the website removed prescription drugs and masks from shelves and declared in the name of Yun Hui medicine that Su Zheng was not "director of our company" and that he had "absconded" for disrupting production and business operations.
然而，工商信息表明：在健客网此前的运营主体广东健客医药有限公司（注册地东莞，下称「健客医药」）及云医惠药，苏展均为实控人及监事。
However, business information shows that before the main operator of the Jianghui Guangdong Health Medicine Co. Ltd. (the registered Dongguan, "Healthcare") and Yun medicine Huihui medicine, Su exhibition is the real-life controller and supervisor.
就「畏罪潜逃」事宜，苏展则对「偶尔治愈」强调，从未被公安机关侦查。
On the issue of "guilty plea," Mr Su stressed that "occasional cure" had never been investigated by the public security organs.
个人行事谨慎缘由，首先在于 2011 年，邀请具百度工作经验及曾成功操盘健康品牌「绿瘦」的谢方敏，进入健客网负责经营后，自己转退二线。
First of all, in 2011, I invited Xie Fangmin, who has Baidu working experience and has successfully handled the health brand "Green Thin," to enter the health care network to run, he turned back the second line.
其次，苏展表示，2019 年与健客医药法人马昊志发现谢方敏私存虚假公章并向警方报案后，一直遭受威胁。
Second, Su said Ma Haozhi, a 2019 health professional, had been threatened after discovering that Xie had kept a false official seal and reported it to the police.
健客网 CEO 苏展（右）图源：健客网官微此外，健客网亦声明其所有口罩均资质合规齐全，价格则严格按照广州市场监督管理局的相关规定定价。
Chief Executive Officer (right): Health Guest website micro-also announced that all its masks are fully qualified, the price is strictly in accordance with the relevant Guangzhou Market Supervision Authority pricing.
然而，据健客官网企宣报道记录，其口罩业务其实并不成熟。
However, according to the Guang Guang business report, its mask business is not mature.
健客网曾坦言，因此前口罩非重要品类，并无固定对接厂商，在资质审核等过程中，「对方没有时间理我们」，如何定价也十分「被动」。
The website has admitted that the front mask is not a major category, there is no fixed docking manufacturer, in the process of qualification audit, "the other side has no time to care about us," how pricing is "passive.
如此情形下，仅春节 7 天内，健客网仍实现口罩供给 100 余万只，并兑现了「不涨价的承诺」。
Under such circumstances, only the Spring Festival 7 days, the network still achieved more than 1 million masks, and fulfilled the "no price commitment."
就目前健客网主营的联友口罩，投诉依旧。
On the current main network of health network friends face mask, the complaint is still.
既有消费者表示，1 月期间以 190 元左右价格购买的拆零联友 9501 KN95 级别口罩，部分无任何包装文字说明，而客服解释为，厂商忘记标注。
Customers said they had bought the 9501 KN95 class face mask for about 190 yuan in January, partly without any packaging instructions, while the customer service explained that the manufacturer had forgotten the label.
悬案未解如今，虽广州市黄埔区市场监督管理局已针对立案，苏展却忧虑起真相最终水落石出的「程度」。
Although the case has been filed with the Huangpu District Market Supervision Bureau of Guangzhou, the Soviet Union is worried about the "extent" of the truth.
在其看来，健客网之所以在疫情期间有恃无恐，在于 2019 年其发现 100 余枚公司印章中 40 余枚伪造，并与公司法人马昊志共同报案后，一直未果。
In its view, the Health Passenger Network was emboldened by the fact that in 2019 it found more than 40 forgeries of more than 100 company seals, which it reported together with Ma Haozhi, the corporate officer, to no avail.
「偶尔治愈」收到的一份健客医药实体分店公章统计单据显示，含有谢方敏签名的公章汇总信息中，存放于广州及东莞的 4 枚公章，被标注「 1 真 3 假」。
"Occasionally cured" received a health-care entities shop official seal statistical documents show that with Xie Fangmin's signature, the four official seals stored in Guangzhou and Dongguan, marked "1 true 3 false."
值得注意的是，因报案公章造假，马昊志因「涉嫌盗窃」（后改为「破坏生产经营」）罪被捕。
Notably, Ma Haozhi was arrested for "suspected theft" (later changed to "sabotage of production and operation") for making a false report.
对此，苏展解释为，因马昊志在公司保险柜发现 40 余枚假章，谢方敏则报案柜内存放有 10000 美元被盗。
In response, Su explained that Ma Hao found more than 40 fake seals in the company safe, Xie Fangmin reported the theft of $10,000 in the cabinet.
后双方纠缠中，苏展因要求公司保证正常运营，谢方敏却宣布放假而彼此冲突，参与其中的马昊志又被定罪「破坏生产经营」。
After the two entangled, Su Jian asked the company to ensure normal operation, but Xie Fangmin declared a holiday and clashed with each other. Ma Haozhi was convicted of "disrupting production."
云医惠药的声明中，则强调苏展所言的情形，实为其与马昊志组织社会人员对公司进行打砸抢，目的「不可告人」。
In his statement, Yun-mei emphasized the situation described by Su Jing-chi, who, together with members of the Marhaozhi community, had attacked and robbed the company for the purpose of "concealment."
彼时，作为公司监事，苏展开始意识到健客网存在严重管理问题。
At that time, as a supervisor of the company, Soviet development began to realize that there are serious management problems.
继而以公章造假为线索，却发现 2016 至 2018 年间，健客网与贵州海健医药有限责任公司（下称「贵州海健」）约 4500 万元的合作往来，并未通过公司账户且存在伪造嫌疑。
Using the official seal as a clue, however, it was found that between 2016 and 2018, HJN and Guizhou Haijian Medicine Co. Ltd. (Guizhou Haijian) had about 45 million yuan of cooperation, without passing through the company account and suspected of forgery.
苏展表示，公安机关介入调查后，贵州海健向东莞市药监局等部门表示，实从未与健客网存在业务关系，并出具相关证明函件。
After the public security organs intervened in the investigation, Guizhou Haijian told the Dongguan Pharmaceutical Supervision Bureau and other departments that it had never had a business relationship with the website and issued relevant certificates.
「偶尔治愈」获得的相关出货单据中，盖有贵州海健出库章。
"Occasionally cured" obtained the relevant bills of lading, stamped Guizhou Haijian out of the library chapter.
若贵州海健与健客网无业务关系，意即关联系于此的药品交易，无正规渠道和质量保证。
If Guizhou Haijian has no business relationship with Jianguest Network, it means that there are no formal channels or quality assurance for drug transactions.
但此案至今无实质进展。
However, no substantive progress has been made.
「偶尔治愈」试图联系贵州海健负责人徐耀了解具体情况，但无回复。
"Occasional Healing" tried to contact Xu Yew, the Guizhou Haijian official, but did not respond.
后辗转联系到办案民警，对方则表示经办中案件不便透露具体细节。
After rolling to contact the civilian police handling the case, the other side said that the case is not easy to disclose specific details.
不过，东莞市食品药品监督管理局一份对健客医药的行政处罚决定书显示，一次健客网购进的货值 58870 元吗替麦考酚酯胶囊等，除违规销售外，未向供货单位索取发票，未认真核对进货单据，无法说明购进药品的合法渠道。
However, a decision of the Food and Drug Administration of Dongguan City on the administrative penalty of health medicine shows that the value of a single purchase of health care network 58,870 yuan for McCopherol capsules, other than illegal sales, did not request invoices from suppliers, did not carefully check purchase documents, and could not explain the legal channels for the purchase of medicines.
假劣难防诚如一基层市场监察人员对「偶尔治愈」所言，诸如知名电商健客网和口碑药房康佰馨，均出现恶性问题，各地假劣口罩等商品渗透的严重，可想而知。
As a grass-roots market supervisor once said about "occasional cure," such as well-known electronic business health network and tablet pharmacy, such as Hong Yin, there are malignant problems, local fake masks and other commodities permeate the serious, you can imagine.
当公众关注集中于疫区防控时，对此实「感知」不足。
When public attention is focused on the prevention and control of epidemic areas, this fact "perception" is insufficient.
让其印象深刻的是，春节期间，发现微商及淘宝平台突然密集出现「飘安」医用口罩时，就预判到集中造假的爆发。
What impressed him was that during the Spring Festival, the discovery of a sudden surge of "fluttering" medical masks on microbusinesses and Taobao platforms predicted a concentrated outbreak of counterfeiting.
为此，该市场监察人员主动扩散其观察质疑，果然，举报接踵而至：「仅此一品牌，涉案人员和金额就难以统计」。
As a result, the market watchdog took the initiative to spread his observation, and the report followed: "This brand alone makes it difficult to count the people involved and the amounts involved."
飘安品牌正规医用口罩由河南飘安集团有限公司生产。
Piao An brand of regular medical masks by the Henan Piao An Group Co. Ltd.
「偶尔治愈」搜索新闻信息发现，关联此的案件频发于河南、安徽、山东、江苏、山西等省。
"Occasional cure" search for news information found that related to the frequency of cases in Henan, Anhui, Shandong, Jiangsu, Shanxi provinces.
2 月，郑州、济南铁路警方联手破获的 32 万只飘安医用口罩造假案显示，其毫无消毒和防护的生产销售流程，甚至已发展至公司化运作。
In February, 320,000 fake medical masks discovered by Zhengzhou and Jinan railway police showed that the process of manufacturing and selling them without disinfection or protection had even developed into company operation.
3 月 4 日，最高检发布四批全国检察机关办理妨害疫情防控犯罪典型案例，总结道，疫情期间，口罩、酒精、消毒剂等防疫物资用品假冒伪劣事件「多发高发」，并渐趋呈现犯罪主体多元化，经网络渠道跨区域广范围销售，严重危及人民群众身体健康，影响防疫工作等特征。
On March 4, the Supreme Inspection issued four typical cases of obstruction of epidemic prevention and control by state procuratorates nationwide, concluding that during the epidemic period, there was a "high incidence" of fake and inferior epidemic prevention supplies such as masks, alcohol and disinfectants.
为此，最高检强调，对生产、销售假冒伪劣口罩行为，绝不会「轻纵、放纵」。
To this end, the Supreme Inspection stressed that the production and sale of fake and inferior masks, will never be "light-handed, indulgent."
涉及罪名则可能为刑法第 140 条 生产、销售伪劣产品罪，第 145 条生产、销售不符合标准的医用器材罪；第 213 条假冒注册商标罪、第 214 条销售假冒注册商标的商品罪以及第 225 条非法经营罪等。
Article 140 of the Criminal Law covers the crime of producing and selling fake and inferior products, article 145 the crime of producing and selling substandard medical equipment, article 213 the crime of counterfeiting a registered trademark, article 214 the crime of selling goods with counterfeit registered trademarks and article 225 the crime of illegal operation.
此外，假冒品牌外，伪造标准则为更「安全」的黑利方式。
In addition, counterfeiting standards are a more "safe" form of hacking than counterfeit brands.
如佛山市场监督管理局通报的案例中，一 11 余万只，涉及金额近 100 万的相关案件，既伪造 QS 、 CE 标志和虚假宣传，生产一次性防尘口罩、KN95 口罩等。
For example, the Foshan Market Supervision Bureau has reported more than 110,000 cases involving nearly one million cases involving the counterfeiting of QS, CE markings and false propaganda, the production of disposable dust masks, KN95 masks, etc.
就目前健客网主售的联友口罩，山西等地亦曾查处标注广州市创卫劳保用品有限公司生产，却无生产许可证编号等伪劣问题。
At present, the owner of the health network to sell allied masks, Shanxi and other places have also investigated and marked Guangzhou Chuangwei Labor Insurance Co. Ltd. production, but there are no production license numbers, such as shoddy problems.
舆论正持续发酵下，就健客网的官方调查结果格外引入关注。
Public opinion is continuing to ferment over the official findings of the website, particularly the introduction of concern.
毕竟，相关法律文书显示，谢方敏为武汉居民。
After all, relevant legal documents show that Xie Fangmin is a resident of Wuhan.
（主笔更多好文，可点击「阅读原文」）作者：左异封面图片来源：站酷海洛—Tips—我们的新书《生死之间》出版了可识别下方图片中的二维码购买偶尔治愈to-cure-sometimes——记录人与疾病、衰老、死亡的相处方式偶尔治愈 | 常常帮助 | 总是安慰。
2007-9-25 21: 48 Our new book, Between Life and Death, identifies two-dimensional code purchases in the image below that occasionally cures to cure disease, aging, and death - and occasionally heals and comforts with AT & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
左异。
On the left.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
已喜欢，对作者说句悄悄话。
Like it, whisper to the author.
发送给作者。
Send to author.
最多40字，当前共字。
Up to 40 words, currently in common.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
「国难财」中的魍魉魑魅。
The Yao Ming of evil spirits.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "偶尔治愈";。
Var nickname = & quot; occasionally cured & quot;;
var msg_title = "「国难财」中的魍魉魑魅";。
var msg _ title = & quot; 'evil spirits' in 'national wealth'.
var msg_desc = "被立案的知名医药电商健客网，问题远非涉及口罩欺诈";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="偶尔治愈";。
var title = & quot; occasionally cured & quot;;
