医生彭银华的最后一场战役。
Doctor Peng Yinhua's last battle.
刘洋。
Liu Yang.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
如果2020年没有到来，29岁的彭银华还将过着他的普通生活。
If 2020 does not come, the 29-year-old will continue to lead his ordinary life.
他慢条斯理，不善拒绝，是个工作狂，放松时会打游戏。
He is slow-witted, not very good at rejecting, is a workaholic and plays games when relaxed.
他靠助学贷款完成学业，父亲中风，是两个家庭的支柱。
He completed his education with a student loan, and his father suffered a stroke, the mainstay of two families.
他即将成为父亲，为此拼命工作，攒钱买房。
He was about to become a father, so he worked hard to save money for a house.
但2020年到来了。
But 2020 is the year.
在疫情蔓延的武汉，他是江夏第一人民医院的医生，守在岗位，从未退缩，终致感染。
In the spread of the epidemic in Wuhan, he is the first people's hospital in Jiangxia doctors, guarding their posts, never flinched, eventually infected.
2月20日，他因器官衰竭去世。
On 20 February, he died of organ failure.
彭银华是一个奋斗者，是我们社会那类勤勉善良的年轻人。
Peng Yinhua is a fighter, is the kind of diligent and kind-hearted young people in our society.
在疫情中，他成为了英雄。
During the outbreak, he became a hero.
本文约7489字预计阅读时间19分钟作者 |刘洋 林珊珊冰点周刊×故事硬核推迟婚礼彭银华最后一次回家是在1月18日，那天下班，他没有跟妻子提医院的事，只说越来越忙。
About 7489 words Estimated reading time 19 minutes Author & # 45; Liuyang Linshansan Bing Dot Weekly Delayed Marriage Peng Yinhua's last trip home on January 18, the day he left work without mentioning the hospital to his wife.
彭银华是个安静的人。
Peng Yinhua was a quiet man.
再半个月，他们就要举行婚礼，再过三个多月，孩子也将出生。
In half a month they were to be married, and more than three months later the baby would be born.
结婚两年来，钟欣知道丈夫一直想挤出时间，把婚礼准备充分，好给她一个惊喜。
After two years of marriage, Ms Chung knew her husband was trying to surprise her by trying to find time to prepare for the wedding.
但疫情让他越来越担忧。
But the epidemic is worrying him more and more.
早在去年12月20日左右，他所在的江夏区第一人民医院呼吸三科就接诊了一个重症“病毒肺”患者， 7天后转到了武汉市中心医院，后来又转到了收治传染病病人的金银潭医院。
As early as December 20 last year, his own Jiangxia First People's Hospital on the respiratory three patients received a severe "viral lung" patients, seven days after the transfer to Wuhan City Central Hospital, and then transferred to the treatment of infectious disease patients of the gold and silver pool hospital.
很快传染风声流传，有人说SARS重来 ，后纠正为不明原因的病毒性肺炎。
Quickly spread the spread of infection, some people said SARS again, after correcting for unknown causes of viral pneumonia.
等到1月10日，呼吸科设置了专门病区，60张床，但不到10天就人满为患。
By 10 January, the Respiratory Department had set up a special section of 60 beds, but in less than 10 days it was overcrowded.
4天后彭银华参加了医院的大会诊，一直忙到凌晨，两位“病毒肺”病人还是没留住，一个在呼吸三科去世，一个转到感染病区后死亡。
Four days later, Mr. Pang attended a general consultation at the hospital and was too busy until the early hours of the morning for two "viral lung" patients to remain, one died after breathing three units and one was transferred to an infected area.
担心家人和怀孕的妻子被感染，彭银华决定住到科室里去，排班时还嚷着，“你们外地的、有孩子的都回家过年，排不过来的班我顶着”。
Fearing for his family and his pregnant wife, Peng Yinhua decided to stay in the department, shouting at the time of the shift, "You all go home and have children to celebrate the New Year, I can not come over the shift I bear.
婚礼的喜帖放在办公室抽屉里，“兹定于”后的时间详细到了分钟，彭银华想要延期，但同事江俊霞医生说，“什么事情都能往后延，结婚不可以”。
The wedding ceremony in the office drawer, "now scheduled" the time to be detailed to the minutes, Peng Yinhua would like to postpone, but colleagues Dr. Jiang Junxia said, "anything can be put off, marriage can not.
情况越来越紧急。
The situation is becoming increasingly urgent.
1月20号证实这种新型肺炎“人传人”，当晚发热门诊病人剧增，很多人一做CT确实有问题，就算不发烧，胸闷气喘、咳嗽、咽痛的大有人在，不少本来有基础疾病的患者，家属送过来时人已垂危。
People-to-person transmission of the new form of pneumonia was confirmed on Jan. 20. Fever-free clinics surged that night, and many people did have problems with CT scans, even if they did not have fever, chest tightness, cough, sore throat, many patients with basic illnesses, family members sent to the people are critically ill.
那个晚上，医生护士通宵无休。
That night, the doctor and nurse stayed up all night.
病人还在急速增加，呼吸三科接管了两层楼，设为第二批隔离病区，在一天内做好分区、培训和二级防护，准备收治病人。
The number of patients is still increasing rapidly. The respiratory unit has taken over two floors and is located in a second quarantined area, with a day of zoning, training and secondary protection for patients.
科室主任陈浩意识到，战役已经开始了。
Section director Chen Hao realized that the battle had begun.
算上他自己，呼吸三科一共7位医生，全部是80后、90后。
Including himself, there were seven doctors in three breathing departments, all 80 or 90.
“21日筹备，穿防护服也是现培训的，我之前是没穿过的，非典时我在读高中。
"21 preparation, wearing protective clothing is also the current training, I have not worn before, SARS I was in high school.
任务也蛮急，楼一清空，马上病人蜂拥而至。
The mission was urgent, as soon as the building was empty, patients rushed in.
”江俊霞说，饭都顾不上，中午就在科室吃一口，点餐由彭银华帮忙去拿。
Jiang Junxia said the meal was ignored, at noon in the department eat a meal, by Peng Yinhua to help pick up.
这一天，彭银华给妻子钟欣打了电话，决定推迟婚期，“要打一场硬仗”，他说。
That day, Peng Yinhua called his wife, Zhong Xin, and decided to postpone the wedding "to fight a hard battle," he said.
妻子曾在江夏一院120做急救护士，没有异议，只怕丈夫身体吃不消，让他放松心态。
His wife once worked as an emergency nurse in a 120-yard hospital in Jiangxia. There was no objection.
彭银华说，“不要担心”。
'Don't worry, 'says Mr. Pang.
彭银华最难打的仗21号晚上，烦躁的情绪开始蔓延，病人挤在护士站，争相往前。
On the night of the 21st, when Peng Yinhua's toughest battle began to fester, patients crowded into the nursing station, rushed forward.
彭银华一直站在那里，尝试着安抚。
Peng Yinhua was standing there, trying to appease her.
殷德群医生事后记得他语气温和地不停重复着，“我们一定尽医护人员最大的力量把大家收进来治疗”，直到下半夜才恢复了秩序。
"We'll do our best to get everyone in for treatment," Dr. Yin remembers after the fact, softly repeating, "We'll do everything we can to get everyone in for treatment." It wasn't until midnight that order was restored.
也许只有共同经历的人，才会理解耐心有多么重要。
Perhaps only those who have shared experiences will understand how important patience is.
同事李英璞当晚上夜班，没吃晚饭，下午5点穿上防护服，直到第二天早上8点，“几乎一刻不停在看病人、写化验单，看了80个号，还要复诊，就是160个号，没喝水、没上厕所。
My colleague, Li Yingpu, did not eat dinner at night, put on protective clothing at 5 pm until the next morning at 8: 00 a.m., "almost non-stop to see patients, write laboratory tests, read 80, and re-consultation, that is 160, no water, no toilet.
”那夜李英璞开了20多个住院证，全都是双肺磨玻璃状病变。
That night, Li Yingpu issued more than 20 hospital certificates, all of which were double-lung grinding glass-like lesions.
而住院区已经超负荷运转，同事打来电话，“发热门诊稍微悠着点，病房实在忙不过来了”。
The in-patient area has been overrun, colleagues called, "fever clinic a little leisurely, the ward is really busy."
但李英璞不敢把病人放出医院外。
But Li Yingpu did not dare to release patients outside the hospital.
“真的从来没有见过这么多病人。
"I've never seen so many patients before.
”江俊霞医生说。
"said Dr. Jiang Junxia.
不到24小时，两层楼，加上抢救室，130张床全部收满。
Less than 24 hours, two floors, plus rescue rooms, full capacity of 130 beds.
空气里弥漫着焦躁恐慌的氛围，有的病人觉得被关了起来、“像坐牢一样”，心理承受不住，跟医生护士吵，“我要出院，就要出院，我不治了，就算死也要死在家里”。
The air was filled with restlessness and panic. Some patients felt locked up, "like a prison," and could not bear to quarrel with the doctors and nurses. "I'm going out of the hospital, I'm going out of the hospital, and I'm dying, even if I die at home."
22号下午，一位老年男性患者各项指数下降，生命体征微弱，彭银华开始抢救，又紧急将他转到重症区，并跟家属沟通，“可能预后不好”，没多久患者还是走了。
22 afternoon, an elderly male patients index fell, weak vital signs, Peng Yinhua began to rescue him, and urgent to transfer him to the critical area, and communicate with his family, "may not have a good prognosis," but soon after the patient left.
夜里，33床的病人熬不住了，家里的小儿子一直喊着，“你就给我抢救！”彭银华为老人做心肺复苏，按压了个把小时，家属仍不愿放弃，又喊着：“再按半个小时！”江俊霞也参与了抢救，她知道这其实是徒劳的，但彭银华就一直按着。
At night, 33-bed patients can not stand, the family's youngest son has been shouting, "You save me!" Peng Yin Huawei did cardiopulmonary resuscitation for an hour, but the family still refused to give up and shouted: "Another half an hour!" Jiang Junxia participated in the rescue, she knew it was futile, but Peng Yinhua has been holding on.
她也知道这就是彭银华，不忍心拒绝任何人。
She also knew that this was Peng Yinhua, could not bear to refuse anyone.
“病人、家属都蛮信服他，以他的担当和责任心，以后一定是个了不起的医生。
"The patient and his family are quite convinced that he must be a great doctor in the future because of his commitment and responsibility.
”江俊霞后来说。
"said Jiang later.
李英璞也一直知道彭银华做事实在，能吃苦、不计回报。
Li Yingpu has always known Peng Yinhua to do things, can endure hardship, no return.
“我们科室除了主任只有他一个男医生，体力精力更好，做事一直冲在前面。
"Our department except the director of a male doctor, physical strength and energy better, always rushed in front of the work.
”她回忆着，平时给病人做检查，“你说‘彭医生搭把手’，他马上就过来。
'Dr Peng, 'she recalled, examining the patient as usual,' you say, 'Dr Peng has a handle,' and he'll be right here.
有突发情况让他帮忙顶班，彭医生都很乐意帮忙。
Dr. Peng was happy to help him in case of emergency.
”但眼下所有人都焦头烂额。
But everyone is in a mess now.
60床的病人抢救无效，家属不太理解，医生们只得解释了很久何谓危重。
The 60-bed patient had no help and the family did not understand, so the doctors had to explain what was at stake for a long time.
两天后家属来办理死亡证明，赶上电脑出问题，等得不耐烦，开始发脾气，摔桌子、摔凳子。
Two days later the family came for the death certificate, caught up with the computer problem, waited impatiently, began to lose his temper, fell on the table, fell stool.
“又要收病人，又要处理这样的事情。
'Receive patients, and deal with such things again.
”江俊霞说。
"said Jiang Junxia.
医院后来有5位内科医生到隔离病区支援，但专业上仍以呼吸科为主，7个医生、11个护士没日没夜连轴转。
The hospital was later supported by five physicians, but the department continued to specialize in respiration, with 7 doctors and 11 nurses working around the clock.
李英璞和彭银华不同楼层，那两天忙得面都没碰上。
Li Yingpu and Peng Yinhua different floor, those two days busy face did not meet.
与此同时，彭银华还得支援门诊，上午是江俊霞，下午是他，“搞到很晚才下班，根本搞不过来。
At the same time, Peng Yinhua also had to support out-patient clinics, Jiang Junxia in the morning and him in the afternoon.
”江俊霞说，刚开隔离病区那两天，每逢彭银华主班，他都尽量一个人收治病人，让白班的医生休息，也减少同事的暴露机会，有天下午病人再次暴增才找白班医生来帮忙。
Jiang said he tried to treat patients alone during the two days when the quarantine zone was opened, to give the daytime doctors rest and reduce the exposure of his colleagues.
“平时他基本不会找人帮忙，应该是实在扛不住了。
"Usually he won't ask for help, but he can't carry it.
”按照政府部署，江夏区收治新冠肺炎病人的定点医院最初设在江夏区中医院，江夏一院得到通知，要把隔离病区的所有病人一股脑转到中医院去。
According to the government's plan, the designated hospital for patients admitted to the new crown pneumonia in Jiangxia District was first set up in the Jiangxia District Hospital, which was notified to transfer all patients from the isolated area to a Chinese hospital.
转了100多个病人时又接到通知，江夏一院也被设为定点医院——当时仅靠中医院的300张床已经远远不够。
When more than 100 patients were transferred, a hospital in Jiangxia was set up as a designated hospital - a time when only 300 beds in a Chinese hospital were no longer sufficient.
不到两天，病区腾出来的100多个病床再次收满。
In less than two days, more than 100 beds were vacated in the affected areas.
“实在不敢把病人放走，如果他们到社会上，继续传染其他人，回过头来仍然是医生的工作，而且更加无法承受。
"It's really not safe to let patients go, and if they continue to infect others, it's still a doctor's job and even more unbearable.
”陈浩说。
"said Chen Hao.
那些天，彭银华和同事们相互补台，轮着收治病人。
Those days, Peng Yinhua and colleagues complement each other, in turn receiving patients.
身处其中，陈浩感受到一种空前紧张的氛围，“每个人都绷得非常紧。
Among them, Chen Hao felt an atmosphere of unprecedented tension, "everyone is very tight."
”对病毒的了解也在加深，现在他知道了它和之前知识体系里的发病机制都不一样。
Knowledge of the virus is growing, and he now understands that it differs from the pathogenesis of previous knowledge systems.
极强的感染性让他感到艰难，不仅将大量病人推到他眼前，又悄悄绕过防线，入侵到他的队伍里。
Extremely infectious and difficult, he not only pushed a large number of patients to his eyes, but also slipped around the line of defense, invading his team.
彭银华“好像中标了”大年三十前，彭银华有些发热，精神不振，同事们很警觉，立刻催他去做CT，当时肺上没有看到病灶，他以为只是普通的感冒。
Peng Yinhua "seems to have won the bid" about 30 years ago, Pang Yinhua a little feverish, depressed, colleagues were very alert, immediately urged him to do CT, lung did not see the lesion, he thought it was just a common cold.
但到大年初一，他仍然提不起精神，胃口差，帮同事取了餐，自己却吃不下几口，复查CT，肺上出现了感染灶，但核酸检测却是阴性。
But by New Year's Day, he still can not lift spirit, appetite, help colleagues to get a meal, but he can not eat a few, review CT, lung infection focus, but Nucleic acid testing is negative.
同事记得，彭银华故作轻松，笑着说，“好像中标了”，心思却全在工作上。
Colleagues remember that Peng Yinhua pretended to be relaxed, smiled and said, "It seems to have won the bid," but all his mind at work.
主任陈浩赶紧让他停下工作，住进隔离病区。
Director Chen Hao hastens to let him stop work, live in quarantine area.
彭银华对陈浩说，“不管怎样，配合治疗，好了之后再回一线。
'Anyhow, with treatment, we can go back to the front line, 'Mr. Pang told Mr. Chen.
”还提出，由他来承担隔离区病人的管理工作，让其他医生尽可能待在办公室和清洁区，减少暴露风险。
He also proposed that he take on the management of patients in the colony, keeping other doctors as close to the office and clean areas as possible to reduce exposure.
“他知道我们其他人工作是非常紧张的。
"He knows the rest of us are very nervous about our work.
”陈浩感到震动，但没有同意彭医生的请求，“医生可能对自己都比较自信。
Chen Hao was shocked, but did not agree with Dr Peng's request. "Doctors may be more confident about themselves.
彭医生刚刚发病，症状还不是很重。
Dr. Peng has just got sick and the symptoms are not very serious.
”作为医生，彭银华格外懂得如何配合治疗，在科室的微信群里把对疾病的感受告诉大家，发心电监护仪的照片，告知高流量吸氧、无创呼吸机的参数，他的体温、呼吸频率、血氧饱和度，也都得到实时关注。
As a doctor, Mr. Peng knows how to cooperate with treatments, telling people how he feels about the disease in his department's microphone group, sending photos of ECG monitors, telling the parameters of a high-flow oxygen-absorbing, non-invasive respirator, and getting real-time attention to his body temperature, respiration rate, and blood oxygen saturation.
陈浩也会不时地建议他做一些调整，把氧浓度、氧压打到多少，坐着还是躺着，再观察他的反应，一度看到好转的迹象。
From time to time, Chen Hao would suggest that he make adjustments to the oxygen concentration, how much oxygen pressure hit, sit or lie down, and watch his reaction, once see signs of improvement.
最开始的那段时间，江夏一院严重缺乏防护物资，医生护士们防护服一穿就是七八个小时，出好几身大汗，护目镜也起了雾，给病人抽血都很困难。
In the early days, there was a severe shortage of protective materials in the Jiangxia hospital. Doctors and nurses wore protective clothing for seven or eight hours, sweating heavily on their faces and fogging their goggles.
有医生抢救重症病人之后也不敢离开隔离病区，担心患者病情反复。
Have a doctor rescues serious patient also dare not leave quarantine disease area, fear patient's condition is repeated.
所有医护人员都在体力的极限，凌晨两点，有人穿着防护服在护士站睡着了。
All the paramedics were stretched to the limit, and at 2 a. m., someone in protective clothing fell asleep at the nurse's station.
“我们这个工作也是持久战，这样其实不符合院感、防护标准，但医生只能硬扛着。
"Our work is a protracted war, which is not in line with the hospital feeling, protection standards, but the doctor can only be forced to carry.
”殷德群说。
"said Yin Dequn.
然而，医疗界很多人都知道：如果医务人员过于劳累，所有的防护可能都起不到作用。
However, many in the medical profession know that all protection may not work if the medical staff is overworked.
“一位同事感染后，密切接触者都要隔离。
"Close contacts are segregated after a colleague gets infected.
那些天大家都一起吃睡在科室里，可能会不幸地形成一个感染环境。
These days everyone sleeps and eats together in the office, which can unfortunately create an infected environment.
”陈浩说，“但当时，尽管彭银华已经发病，其他同事也没办法得到休息，我们一直都在一线上，倒一个人意味着工作更艰难。
"But at the time, even though Peng Yinhua was ill and other colleagues couldn't get rest, we were always on the front line," says Mr Chen.
”“和彭医生一起，我们科室在最初那些天里，毫无疑问是最难打的仗。
"With Dr Peng, there is no doubt that the first days of our department were the most difficult battles to fight.
”陈浩说。
"said Chen Hao.
直到江苏医疗队十天后赶来，其他科医生也转来支援，陈浩觉得科室的十多个人才算顺了口气。
Until Jiangsu medical team arrived 10 days later, other doctors also turned to support, Chen Hao felt that the department of more than a dozen people smooth tone.
但在彭银华之后，科室的殷德群、江俊霞、许惠也都相继发现了感染灶，只是谁也没有料到，最年轻且身体强壮的彭银华，会是病情急剧恶化的那一个。
But after Peng Yinhua, the department of Yin De Qun, Jiang Junxia, Xu Hui have also found infection focus, but who did not expect, the youngest and strong Peng Yinhua, will be a sharp deterioration of the disease.
同事们一起到隔离病区看望彭银华又一个器官衰竭了，又一个……大年初一，钟欣接到彭银华的电话，丈夫住院了，告诉她自己只是低烧、咳嗽，有点乏力。
Colleagues to the quarantine area to see another organ failure Peng Yinhua, another... On the first day of the New Year, Zhong Xin received a phone call from Peng Yinhua, her husband was hospitalized, told her that he was only low fever, cough, a little weak.
三天后，丈夫来电说，核酸检测第一次显示阳性。
Three days later, her husband called and said the nucleic acid test was positive for the first time.
两人决定不要告诉父母，暗自扛着。
They decided not to tell their parents, secretly carrying them.
那天下午，同事们去看彭银华。
That afternoon, colleagues went to see Peng Yinhua.
大家说说笑笑，商量着无论如何要一起出去好好玩一次，又提到要去闹他的婚礼，“你爱人将来挺着肚子穿婚纱和你举行婚礼，真的挺浪漫的。
They laughed and talked about how much fun it would be to go out together anyway. They talked about going to his wedding and saying, "It's really romantic that your partner will tie the knot with you in her wedding gown.
”“这场婚礼不只要等你病好，还要等到武汉疫情结束，到时候孩子可能已经出生了，就要办三口之家的婚礼了，那也挺浪漫的。
"" This wedding will not only wait until you get well, but also when Wuhan is over and the baby is probably already born, it will be a family of three.
”还一起畅想着，什么时候病人能少一点，大家不用那么累，可以有点时间回家陪陪家人。
"They also talked about when patients would be less tired and would have time to go home and spend time with their families.
后来，科室里几位被感染的医生和护士建了个“加油群”，每天在群里互相打气，有护士感到害怕，彭银华就在群里给她们讲这个病的自然演变，安慰说并不可怕，“生病就像爬山一样，开始感染的时候你在山脚下，慢慢出现临床症状时你在山腰上，进入治疗后病情不会直接往下走，还会沿着山往上爬，治疗中免疫力慢慢恢复，会把病毒压下去，你的病也开始走下坡路，会回到山脚。
Later, several infected doctors and nurses in the department set up a "refueling group" to cheer each other up every day. Pang Yinhua told them about the natural evolution of the disease.
”1月30日，江俊霞医生也住进了彭银华的病房，发现他几乎变了个人，一动就喘气，用上了高流量吸氧，氧浓度已经调到40升，吃东西也很费力，行动就更难了，不能下床上厕所。
On January 30, Dr. Jiang Junxia also moved into Peng Yinhua's ward, where he found himself almost a changed man, panting and breathing heavily, with oxygen levels set at 40 litres, and eating with difficulty, making it harder for him to get out of bed.
江俊霞给他带了一提牛奶，他喝不下。
Jiang Junxia brought him a mention of milk, he can not drink.
陈浩发现他病情进展很快，那天也尽量在病房照顾他。
Chen found that he was progressing rapidly and tried to take care of him in the ward that day.
陈浩提出如果医院能购置一台ECMO，科室会请协和的教授来指导使用。
Chen Hao suggested that if the hospital could buy an ECMO, the department would call on Concorde's professors to guide its use.
但一想到彭银华要上ECMO，同事们心里很难过。
But the thought of Pang Yinhua going to ECMO, colleagues are very sad.
到了晚上，彭银华要转到传染病区（重症病区），他问江俊霞，“江老师，我为什么要转去传染病区呢？”江俊霞没多想，说“那边有大呼吸机”。
In the evening, Peng Yinhua to be transferred to the infectious disease area (serious illness area), he asked Jiang Junxia, "Mr. Jiang, why do I have to transfer to the infectious disease area?" Jiang Junxia did not think much, said "there is a big breathing machine."
陈浩怕他担心，忙说，“也不是这样的，去那边有它的益处”。
Chen Hao afraid of him worried, busy said, "also not like that, go there has its advantages."
几小时后，他病情加重，连夜转去了金银潭医院。
A few hours later, he became seriously ill and was transferred overnight to the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
“那天晚上我们其实松了一口气，觉得他去了金银潭就比较有保障了，安全了。
"We were really relieved that night to think he was safer and more secure with his gold and silver.
”江俊霞说。
"said Jiang Junxia.
刚转到金银潭那两天，彭银华状态不错，没用太多药，抗生素都降下来了。
Just turned to gold and silver pool that two days, Peng Yinhua condition is good, do not use too much medicine, antibiotics are down.
同事们在群里开玩笑，让他把好的治疗方案、秘籍都学回来。
Colleagues joked in the group, asking him to come back with good treatments and secret books.
彭银华回说，“权当我在金银潭进修了”。
"Right when I was studying in the gold and silver pool," said Mr. Peng.
但很快，他开始发热。
But soon he began to get hot.
陈浩说，大家的心又提起来，“我们经常伴随着他的病情而心情起伏，他状态不好的时候我们就特别沮丧，好一些了我们就很兴奋。
'Everyone's heart goes up and down again, 'says Mr. Chen.' We're always going through a lot of ups and downs with his illness, and when he's in a bad form, we're very depressed and excited.
”听彭银华说心率急剧加快、呼吸困难加重——同事们心里一沉，知道疾病已经损伤到心脏，不仅仅是肺了。
Hearing his heart rate rise sharply and breathing difficulties worsen, Mr. Pang said, colleagues became so distraught they knew the disease had damaged the heart, not just the lungs.
听说合并使用了最高档的抗菌药物——可能出现耐药性或真菌感染了。
It is said that a combination of the most high-grade antimicrobial agents - possibly drug resistance or fungal infections - is used.
心里又是一沉。
My heart sank again.
但群里总是收到彭银华的报信，说今天生命体征平稳，说同事们多吃、营养要跟上。
But the group always received a letter from Peng Yinhua, said today's signs of life is stable, said colleagues eat more, nutrition to keep up.
到了2月9号，他交代“体温有波动”后再没了消息，所有人都慌了。
By February 9, he said he had no more news after the "temperature fluctuation," and everyone was in a panic.
直到第二天早上，他忽然出现，“差点见不着你们了”。
It was not until the next morning that he suddenly appeared, "I could hardly see you."
前一晚，他高烧38.3℃，血氧饱和度50%持续了一两个小时，金银潭的治疗团队临时加了小剂量激素缓解他的呼吸困难，还考虑过插管，“幸好挺过来了！”陈浩感到很难受，可他始终没有过听到彭银华说任何消极的、宣泄情绪的话，最低落时只是说：我看到旁边床的奶奶刚刚走了，我才意识到原来死亡离我这么近。
The night before, he had a high fever of 38.3 degrees Celsius, 50% blood oxygen saturation for an hour or two, the treatment team of the gold and silver pool temporarily added small doses of hormones to ease his breathing difficulties and considered the intubation.
同事们想做点什么，他说想请120给带点换洗衣物，还希望能给妻子送点物资，她物资不多了。
Colleagues wanted to do something. He said he wanted 120 to change some clothes, and he wanted to get something for his wife. She was short of supplies.
那天是2月10号——之后，所有人就与他失联了。
It was February 10 - and then everyone lost touch with him.
当天下午彭银华接受了插管治疗，深度昏迷。
That afternoon Peng Yinhua received intubation treatment, deep coma.
“从无创到有创措施，我们知道不太乐观了，到这一步，大部分患者很难治愈。
"We know that we are not very optimistic and that at this point most patients are very difficult to cure.
”殷德群说。
"said Yin Dequn.
陈浩想着预后可能不会太好，“但不愿多想，对他抱着极大的希望，你身边这样一个人，说他要殉职，没到那一步，你不愿意想，不愿意相信，也没有思想准备。
Chen Hao thought the prognosis may not be too good, "but do not want to think much, a great deal of hope for him, such a person around you, said he would die in the line of duty, until that step, you do not want to think, do not want to believe, do not have the mental preparation.
”得到第一批康复者的血浆时，陈浩立即想到能否给彭银华用上，查对血型之后，把三袋共300毫升血浆送去了金银潭。
"When he got the plasma from the first survivors, Chen immediately wondered if he could use it for Peng Yinhua. He checked the blood type and sent three bags of 300 ml plasma to the gold and silver pool.
江俊霞始终惦记着彭银华，忍不住和钟欣联系，“彭银华现在怎么样了嘞？”钟欣也没有消息，还安慰说，“没消息就是好消息”。
Jiang Junxia has always been thinking of Peng Yinhua, and Zhong Xin contact, "Peng Yinhua now how?" Zhong Xin also did not have news, and consoled said, "No news is good news."
最后，江俊霞通过同学联系到省人民医院的余追教授，他正在带队救治彭银华，余教授说，彭银华的胰酶（重症胰腺炎的指标）上来了，这意味着胰腺也已受损。
Finally, Jiang Junxia contacted Professor Yu Zhuan of the provincial People's Hospital through his classmates. He was leading the team to treat Peng Yinhua, who said Peng Yinhua's trypsin, an indicator of severe pancreatitis, meant the pancreas had also been damaged.
还有腹水，CRRT（体外肾脏代谢）也在做了——又一个器官，肾脏，也衰竭了。
And with ascites, CRRT (in vitro kidney metabolism) is doing the same - another organ, the kidneys, is failing, too.
彭银华在住院  2020年没到来多好2020年2月20日21点50分刚过，江俊霞收到余追教授的信息，“我已经从病房下来了，尽全力了”，她告诉陈浩，陈浩说，“彭银华已经不在了”。
Peng Yinhua in hospital in 2020 do not come much better February 20, 2020 just after 21: 50, Jiang Junxia received a message from Professor Yu Chuan, "I have come down from the ward, do my best," she told Chen Hao, "Peng Yinhua is gone."
护士长在科室微信群里问，“都在吗？”几个人回“在”“我在”。
The head nurse asks in the department micromail group, "Are all here?" Several people return "I am in."
没有人再说什么，大家也都猜到了。
No one said anything more, and everyone guessed.
殷德群很恍惚，手在抖，但手边有工作，还有大量的病人，不敢让悲痛的情绪起来。
Yin De Qun was in a trance, his hands shaking, but he had a job at hand and a large number of patients who did not dare to grieve.
回想那些天，除了“惊心动魄”，李丹医生始终没找到其他词汇来表达。
Looking back on those days, apart from the "heart-stirring", Dr. Li Dan has never found other words to express.
几个心直口快、平时爱和彭银华怼着聊天的护士，都一宿没睡，夜里3点多实在憋不住开启了群通话。
Several nurses who spoke freely, and often loved to talk with Peng Yinhua, had not slept all night.
住在隔离病区的江俊霞没和任何人说话，哭了一晚上。
Jiang Junxia, who lives in a quarantined area, cried all night without talking to anyone.
隔壁床的阿姨安慰她，“你现在也是病人，要调整自己”。
The aunt next door comforted her. "You're a patient now, too. Tune in."
两天后她在日记里写：今天哭了，明天不再哭了。
Two days later she wrote in her diary: Today I cry, tomorrow I will not cry.
她又想起不久前和彭银华一起住院，约着都要写日记，有天她写“太阳射过来，很温暖”，殷德群医生笑说她心态真好。
She thought of her recent hospitalization with Peng Yinhua and her appointment to keep a diary. One day she wrote, "The sun is coming, it's warm," and Dr. Yin said with a smile that she was in a good mood.
她不知彭银华写了没。
She wondered if Peng Yinhua had written it.
23号，结束隔离的李英璞医生重回科室，查房时看到彭银华曾经的病床，隔壁床的江俊霞眼睛还肿着。
23, the end of isolation of Dr. Li Yingpu returned to the department, when the room to see Peng Yinhua used to bed, the next bed Jiang Junxia eyes are still swollen.
“作为医生我没有保护好自己的同事。
"I didn't protect my colleagues as a doctor.
”李英璞哽咽着，“虽然说临床医生经历过太多生离死别，很多人觉得我们心肠很硬、很冷血，职责在那，我们不可能把软弱摆在病人面前，但说实话，这个事儿发生在自己同事身上格外揪心，身边的战友倒下去了……”疫情还在继续，李英璞知道还要继续屏蔽内心里很多感受。
Although many people think that our heart is hard and cold-blooded, and the duty lies there, we can not put weakness before the patient, but to tell the truth, it happened to his colleagues who fell down side by side.
“从来没想过在和平年代我们会在一线‘打仗’，你说怕吧确实怕，说不怕吧作为医务人员也确实不怕，白大褂、防护服穿上你也不允许自己退缩。
"I never thought we were going to fight on the front lines in peacetime. You know, I'm really scared, I'm not afraid. As a medical man, you're not afraid.
我们医生护士隔离期过了重新回一线，其实我们的父母是不希望我们继续工作的，我堂哥说我爸妈憔悴了一大截，我更不敢想象彭银华的爸妈现在咋样。
We doctors and nurses seclusion after the line, in fact, our parents do not want us to continue working, my cousin said my parents haggard a lot, I can not imagine Peng Yinhua's parents now how.
但我们职责如此，只要疫情不散，我们不可能退缩的。
But that is our responsibility, and we cannot shrink as long as the epidemic continues.
到现在，已经不单单因为我们是医务工作者，全国各地这么多来支援我们的兄弟姐妹，他们也是人，为了他们，我们也必须要再上战场，也要让他们得到休息，大家是一体的。
It is not only because we are medical workers, but also because there are so many brothers and sisters around the country supporting our brothers and sisters, who are human beings. For their sake, we must go back to the battlefield and rest them.
”江俊霞也在重新确认信念。
Mr Jiang is also reasserting his conviction.
她相信再来一次这样的战役，大家不会畏缩，还会义无反顾地去接收病人，但会总结一些经验。
She believed that in such a battle, people would not shrink and would accept patients irresistibly, but would learn from their experiences.
“我们科里结束隔离的都回来了，我治愈了也会回一线的。
"We're coming back from quarantine, and I'm going to be back in line when I heal.
”这些天，陈浩想了很多，他是最坚硬的那类人。
"These days, Chen Hao thought a lot. He was the hardest kind of person.
这不是他第一次面对严峻的状况，但“这绝对是最严重的一次”，他知道自己必须带领团队去打这场仗。
It wasn't the first time he had faced a tough situation, but "it was definitely the worst" and he knew he had to lead his team to the battle.
“彭医生去世后，我们有沮丧和心理上的创伤，但大家还是在积极地工作，不然同事就白白牺牲了。
"After Dr Peng's death, we suffered from depression and psychological trauma, but we all worked hard or our colleagues would have died in vain.
”一个多月来，他和团队拼尽全力维持病人们各个受损器官的功能，帮助度过病毒的自限性。
For more than a month, he and his team struggled to maintain the functioning of their diseased organs to help them survive the virus's self-limitation.
“这次疫情发生后，我觉得人类就是井底之蛙。
"After this outbreak, I think humans are frogs in the well.
我们的认识是非常局限的，当你觉得了解了某种规律，以为什么东西都是按照你所理解的经验去运行的时候，它可能就会来一次黑天鹅。
Our understanding is very limited, and when you feel that you understand a certain law, and why everything is running according to your understanding of experience, it may be a black swan.
你认为你了解了世界的规律，但真正的规律不是你想象的样子，你一定要时刻去敬畏，我们的医生、科学家都不能太自信，对自然、科学都要去敬畏，就像对这个疾病一样，超出了既往的认知。
You think you know the laws of the world, but the real laws are not what you think they are. You must fear them all the time. Our doctors and scientists cannot be too confident.
我们的工作，也包括医生的感染，都在证明超出你经验的事情在发生。
Our work, including that of doctors, is proving that things are happening beyond your experience.
”同事中还有另一种喟叹：2020年没到来多好，没有这个病毒，他也还在……彭银华的新婚照。
There is another comment among colleagues: 2020 is not a good year, and without the virus, he is... Peng Yinhua's recent wedding photo.
赵莹/供图120的爱情钟欣始终记得自己当初在江夏一院做120护士时，每一次和彭银华出急救的经历，那时彭银华刚刚大学毕业，在120兼做急救医生。
Zhao Ying / Pu 120 love Zhong Xin always remember his first time as a 120-year-old nurse in a hospital in Jiangxia, each time with Peng Yinhua, who graduated from college and worked as an emergency doctor in 120.
车祸，火灾，暴力事件，两人曾一起面对过许多死亡。
Car accidents, fires, violent incidents, both of which have faced many deaths together.
2016年1月的一个凌晨，下着雨，他们接到一个电话后立刻赶到江夏殡仪馆，随后被卷进一场医闹事件。
In the early morning hours of January 2016, it was raining. They received a call and rushed to the Jiangxia funeral home, where they were involved in a medical hoax.
抢救对象身体还有热度，但治疗医院已经判断临床死亡，家属大闹，还拉了一群人来，场面很混乱。
Rescue object body still has heat, but the treatment hospital has judged the clinical death, the family squabble, also pulled a group of people, the scene is chaotic.
彭银华一直保护着钟欣，同时尽力和家属沟通。
Peng Yinhua has been protecting Zhong Xin while trying to communicate with her family.
家属强行把患者抬上了车，彭银华还是给做了心肺复苏、静脉穿刺和吸氧，并且尽量自己完成，不让钟欣参与。
Family members forced the patient onto the car, Pang Yinhua gave CPR, venipuncture and oxygen absorption, and try to do their own, do not participate Zhong Xin.
钟欣回忆，“我不是第一次和他出急救，但那次印象深刻。
"It wasn't the first time I had to give him first aid, but it was very impressive," Ms Chung recalled.
结束后还一起去警局做笔录，我很紧张，第一次进警局，他安慰我，说别怕，说‘我也没经历过这事儿，把情况说清楚就好了’。
When I got to the police station for the first time, he comforted me by saying, 'I haven't been through this either. I wish I could be clear'.
”那之后不久，两人就在一起了。
"Shortly after that, they were together.
2017年11月30号领证那天，是钟欣的生日。
On November 30, 2017, the date of collection, is Zhong Xin's birthday.
夫妻俩婚后一直和钟欣的父母、哥哥挤在一间简陋的小平房里。
The couple has been married Zhong Xin's parents, brothers crowded into a humble bungalow.
双方父母都靠打零工过日子，彭银华父亲2014年中风之后丧失了劳动能力，母亲多年高血压，钟欣的父亲也在2008年患高血压，做了两次肾结石手术，两家子的老人长年都在吃药。
Both parents worked part-time, Peng Yinhua's father lost his ability to work after a stroke in 2014, his mother suffered from high blood pressure for years, and Zhong's father suffered from hypertension and kidney stones twice in 2008.
钟欣怀孕后也离职了，彭银华成了两个家庭唯一的经济支柱，拼命工作，想攒钱买个房子，给未出世的宝宝一个更好的环境，中风的父亲也能接来一起生活。
Ms. Chung left her job after becoming pregnant, and Mr. Pang became the sole breadwinner of the two families, working hard to save money for a house that would give her a better environment for her unborn baby and help her father cope with a stroke.
而如今，腾讯公益慈善基金会为他捐款的资料上写着“殉职”。
Now, Tencent's charitable foundation is donating to him in a document that says "martyrdom".
“平时在家，他其实挺安静的，放松时玩玩游戏，和工作时的工作狂两个样子；我喜欢看心理学的书，最近看育儿书。
"He's quiet at home, playing games when he's relaxed, and a workaholic at work. I love reading psychology books and, more recently, parenting books.
”钟欣说。
'she said.
至今，宝宝还没取名字。
So far, the baby has not been named.
2月10号下午1点47分，钟欣最后一次收到丈夫的信息，说他请科室的护士长帮忙备了一些药品和物资给家里。
On February 10 at 1: 47 p.m., Zhong received her husband's last message that he had asked the head nurse of the department to help him prepare some medicine and supplies for his family.
2月20号那天，一整夜，钟欣一直在颤抖，也一直尽量控制，她很恐惧，怕宝宝有什么危险，一直努力不让自己哭出来。
All night long, Feb. 20, Zhong Xin trembled and kept trying to control herself. She was afraid of what might happen to her baby, and she tried hard not to cry.
“我一直压抑着我的情绪，我自认为是个很坚强的人。
"I've been suppressing my emotions and I think I'm a very strong person.
”3月2号，武汉又是阴天，街面湿漉漉的。
On March 2, Wuhan was overcast again, and the streets were wet.
胎儿越来越大，钟欣走路时身体有些偏，但步子不小，穿过一众孕妇和陪伴的丈夫们。
As the fetus grew larger, Zhong Xin walked a little out of step, through a company of pregnant women and accompanying husbands.
她一口气爬了五层楼，去做孕中期的大排畸检查。
She climbed the fifth floor in one breath to undergo a major teratogenic test in the middle of pregnancy.
胎儿的影像出现在B超仪上，医生告诉她，“胎儿现在正好手把脸挡住了，照不到面部的三维，面部五官都是正常的啊。
The fetus appeared on the ultrasound machine and doctors told her. "The fetus is now in the face, not three-dimensional, facial features are normal ah.
”“都挡住了呀！”钟欣语调高了一点，带着一丝兴奋。
"It's all in the way!" Zhong Hin's tone was a little higher, with a tinge of excitement.
她知道一个人抚养孩子需要多大勇气，如今她只想把宝宝好好生下来，孩子能健康长大，未来会告诉他，父亲是个英雄。
She knows how much courage it takes to raise a child, and now she just wants her baby to be born, the baby to grow up healthy, and the future to tell him that his father is a hero.
彭银华的照片下摆满菊花。
Peng Yinhua's photos are covered with chrysanthemums.
中青报·中青网记者 王鑫昕/摄（本文由冰点周刊、故事硬核联合出品，首发于中青报和腾讯新闻平台，未经授权不得转载。
Xinxin Wang / Photographer of Zhongqing News Network (This article is jointly produced by Freezing Point Weekly and Story Hard Core. It was first published in Zhongqing News and Tencent News Platform and cannot be reproduced without authorization.
）中国青年报·中国青年网出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
The China Youth Daily and China Youth Daily have sent a message to Ren Yi.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
医生彭银华的最后一场战役。
Doctor Peng Yinhua's last battle.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "医生彭银华的最后一场战役";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Doctor Pang Yinhua's last battle;;
var msg_desc = "2020年没到来多好，没有这个病毒，他也还在。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
