这支“护肾小队”专门对付“炎症风暴”。
The "Kidney Squad" deals with "inflammatory storms."
这支“护肾小队”专门对付“炎症风暴”。
The "Kidney Squad" deals with "inflammatory storms."
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
The following article comes from 守候微光。
The following article comes from waits for the light.
Author 中国青年报。
Author China Youth Daily.
守候微光。
Waiting for the light.
大家一起凝视的， 既是我们的生活，也是历史的脉络。
What we gaze upon together is not only our life, but also the thread of history.
中国青年报摄影部公众平台，生产真诚严肃的社会纪实摄影，品读新鲜有益的全球视觉资讯，帮助年轻的你看身旁、看远方。
China Youth Daily Photography Department public platform, production of sincere and serious social documentary photography, reading fresh and beneficial global visual information, to help young you look at the side, see the distance.
。
.
2月26日，湖北省武汉市同济医院光谷院区，血液净化中心的护士们在等待即将送到的援助物资。
Nurses at the Blood Purification Center wait for aid to arrive at the Guanggu courtyard of Tongji Hospital in Wuhan, Hubei province, Feb. 26, 2006.
这支由20多名专科护理人员组成的“护肾小队”，负责为重症及危重症新冠肺炎患者做血液净化，清除体内细胞因子风暴。
The "Kidney Squad," a team of more than 20 specialist nurses, clears the body of cytokine storms by cleansing the blood of patients with severe and critical new crown pneumonia.
中⻘报·中青网记者 李隽辉/摄Play中青报·中青网记者 李隽辉摄影报道从除夕那天晚上开始，武汉同济医院血液净化中心护士长鄢建军和他的团队就一直没有休息过，已有一个多月了。
Zhongtongji Hospital Blood Purification Center in Wuhan Tongji Hospital and his team have not had a rest for more than a month since New Year's Eve.
2月9日，武汉同济医院光谷院区被征用为新冠肺炎重症救治医院。
February 9, Wuhan Tongji Hospital Guanggu courtyard area was requisitioned as the new crown pneumonia severe treatment hospital.
两天多的时间，这里迅速收满了800余名重症和危重症患者。
In more than two days, more than 800 critically ill and critically ill patients were quickly collected here.
征用当天，鄢建军带着护士们为100多个病人做完透析，并将他们转移回本部院区，已经是半夜12点了。
On the day of the requisition, the Visayas completed dialysis with nurses for more than 100 patients and transferred them back to their home campus at 12: 00 midnight.
两天后，血液净化中心的40余名护士一分为二，其中一半“最年轻、最能扛事儿”的护士重新回到光谷院区，组成“护肾小队”，开始为新冠肺炎患者做透析。
Two days later, more than 40 nurses from the Blood Purification Center split in half. Half of them, the "youngest and most productive" nurses, returned to the Gwanggu compound to form a "kidney team" to start dialysis patients with Newcastle pneumonia.
这些病人都是两周前的“存量”，那时“应收尽收”的政策还没出台，不少病人因为核酸检测的假阴性耽误了治疗时机，在病情加重后才被送进医院。
These patients were "in stock" two weeks ago, before the "catch-all" policy was in place, and many patients were sent to hospital only after their condition had worsened because of false-negative nucleic acid testing, which delayed treatment.
“护肾小队”的工作首先是筛查合并有肾病损害的病人，进行早期干预，避免出现肾功能损伤；其次是对炎症细胞因子进行筛查。
The work of the "Kidney Care Team" begins with screening patients with kidney damage and early intervention to avoid kidney damage, followed by screening for inflammatory cytokines.
他们发现，很多患者有“细胞因子风暴”的风险。
They found that many patients were at risk of "cytokine storms."
有基础疾病的病人，在“细胞因子风暴”的作用下会发生多器官衰竭，从而可能导致死亡。
Patients with basic diseases may die from multiple organ failure due to "cytokine storms."
血液净化技术可以通过清除炎症因子，达到保护脏器、挽救生命的目的。
Blood purification technology can protect organs and save lives by removing inflammatory factors.
国家卫健委3月3日发布的《新型冠状病毒肺炎诊疗方案（试行第七版）》明确提出，对重型、危重型患者存在细胞因子风暴的，增加“血液净化治疗”。
The "New Coronavirus Pneumonia Diagnosis and Treatment Scheme (Trial Version 7)" promulgated by the State Health Commission on March 3 explicitly provides for the addition of "blood purification therapy" to patients with severe or severe severe cases with cytokine storms.
2月26日，武汉同济医院光谷院区，血液净化中心护士冯佰仟、万妞、李继明（左至右）在上午的交班例会中。
February 26, Wuhan Tongji Hospital Guanggu courtyard area, blood purification center nurses Feng Baiqian, Wanchu, Li Jiming (left to right) in the morning shift regular meeting.
所有护士每天早上8点都要打卡，并报告身体状况。
All nurses have to punch in every morning at 8 am and report their health.
中⻘报·中青网记者李隽辉/摄2月26日，湖北省武汉市同济医院光谷院区，在进入ICU病房前，血液净化中心的护士们互相帮助，穿上防护服。
Zhongyang Daily News Li Jun-hui / She February 26, Hubei Province, Wuhan Tongji Hospital Guanggu courtyard, before entering the ICU ward, the blood purification center nurses help each other put on protective clothing.
中⻘报·中青网记者李隽辉/摄2月26日，武汉同济医院光谷院区，ICU病房内的监控屏幕。
Zhongzhong newspaper Zhongqing net reporter Li meaningful hui / She Feb. 26, Wuhan Tongji Hospital Guanggu courtyard area, ICU ward inside the surveillance screen.
中⻘报·中青网记者李隽辉/摄以目前小队的人员配置，一天为10名患者做透析是常态，也是满格的工作状态。
Zhongyang newspaper Zhongqing net reporter Li meaningful hui / camera with the current team staffing, a day for 10 patients dialysis is the norm, is also a full working state.
进入ICU后，护士们先要调试血液净化机，医生们则开始为病人插导管，这些工作在身着两三层防护服的情况下，变得艰难异常，原本半小时就可以完成的工作要做一个小时。
After entering the ICU, nurses tweak the blood purifier, and doctors begin to insert catheters into patients' cloths, which can take an hour to complete in half an hour while wearing two or three layers of protective clothing.
一名病人使用血液净化机的时间是8-10个小时，而医护人员防护服的使用时限是6小时，所以需要两拨儿护士接力才能完成1个病人的血液净化，有的护士甚至一天要进3次ICU。
A patient uses a blood purifier for 8-10 hours, whereas a health-care suit is used for six hours, so it takes a relay of two nurses, some up to three times a day, to purify a patient's blood.
ICU病房是红区中的红区，房间中病毒气溶胶浓度非常高，进行近距离的操作时需要二级甚至是三级防护（三级为最高防护），防护服如果有一点点漏气，病毒就可能被吸入。
The ICU ward is a red zone in the red zone. Virus aerosol concentrations in the room are very high. Close operation requires secondary or even tertiary protection (the highest level of protection), and if there is a slight leak in the protective clothing, the virus may be inhaled.
这也是高度缺氧的状态，他们每次从ICU出来时，全身上下都会被汗水湿透。
It's also a state of high anoxia, and they get soaked in sweat every time they come out of the ICU.
疫情初期，需要常规透析的病人每个星期仍要去医院两三次，而透析室是人员聚集的地方，传染风险很大。
At the beginning of the epidemic, patients in need of routine dialysis continued to visit hospitals two or three times a week, and dialysis rooms, where people congregated, were at high risk of infection.
透析病人多半合并有基础疾病，一旦感染，死亡率极高。
Most dialysis patients are associated with basic diseases and, once infected, have extremely high mortality rates.
操作透析的医护人员同样面临着极大的风险。
The health care workers who operate dialysis are also at great risk.
不断有医护人员感染、确诊的消息，会对一线护士的心理产生影响。
Constant information about the infection and diagnosis of medical staff will have an impact on the psychology of front-line nurses.
“说实话，我们都很怕。
"To tell the truth, we were all afraid.
但血液透析治疗是挽救病人生命的最后手段，做了，病人可能活，但不做就死了。
But hemodialysis treatment is the last resort to save a patient's life. Once done, the patient may live, but not die.
”鄢建军说。
"said Visayas Jianjun.
“封城”初期，很多物资没来得及运进来，隔离衣用完了，医生护士只能穿工作服甚至是病人的病号服工作，直到正月十五之后情况才慢慢好转。
In the early days of the "closure," when many supplies were not delivered in, the isolation clothes were exhausted and the doctors and nurses had to work in overalls or even in patients' hospital uniforms.
也就是在这期间，武汉市一批批医院被征用，常规透析病人们没有地方透析。
During this period, batches of hospitals in Wuhan were requisitioned, and dialysis patients had no local dialysis.
他们一旦发烧，原本可以去透析的医院不允许接待，只能转到定点医院排查。
If they have a fever, the hospital that can go to dialysis is not allowed to receive them, but can only refer to the designated hospital for screening.
“排查期间因为没有做透析，不少病人没有挺过去。
"A lot of patients didn't make it through the screening because they didn't have dialysis.
”鄢建军说。
"said Visayas Jianjun.
后来，透析病人有了定点医院，加上外省医疗队的进入，情况才有了好转。
Later, the situation improved with the appointment of a hospital for dialysis patients and the entry of medical teams from the provinces.
同济医院肾内科副教授何凡介绍，一开始，光谷院区的各援助医疗队对应用血液净化技术治疗新冠肺炎患者持保守态度。
At first, the aid medical teams in Kwanggu Prefecture took a conservative attitude towards the use of blood purification technology to treat patients with Newcomrown Crowne Pneumonia, an associate professor of renal medicine at Tongji Hospital.
一次，“护肾小队”为一名74岁的老人完成3次血液净化后，原本呼吸衰竭、已经进入昏迷状态的老人逐渐开始好转，超出正常水平30多倍的炎症因子回到常规范围内。
Once, after completing three blood purification sessions for a 74-year-old man, the respiratory failure and coma of the elderly began to improve, more than 30 times the normal level of inflammation back into the regular range.
一星期后，老人重症转轻后转院。
A week later, the old man became light and transferred to hospital.
从这以后，这种治疗方式开始为各医疗队所接受。
Since then, this form of treatment has begun to be accepted by medical teams.
在随后的两周内，34名患者接受了近百人次血液净化，其中10人已经出院或转至轻症医院。
In the following two weeks, 34 patients underwent nearly 100 blood purification sessions, 10 of whom were discharged or referred to light hospitals.
2月26日，武汉同济医院光谷院区，血液净化中心的护士们准备进入病房。
Nurses prepare to enter the ward at the Guanggu courtyard of Wuhan Tongji Hospital on February 26.
他们要推着血液净化机，穿过3道门，才能从清洁区进入污染区。
They had to push the blood purifier through three doors to get into the contaminated area from the clean area.
中⻘报·中青网记者李隽辉/摄2月26日，武汉同济医院光谷院区，ICU病房内，护士们在调试血液净化机。
Zhongyang newspaper Zhongqing net journalist Li meaningful hui / She February 26, Wuhan Tongji Hospital Guanggu courtyard, ICU ward, nurses are adjusting the blood purification machine.
这些工作在身着两三层防护的情况下，变得艰难异常，原本半小时就可以完成的工作要做一个小时。
These jobs, with two or three layers of protection, have become extraordinarily difficult, requiring an hour of work that could have been done in half an hour.
中⻘报·中青网记者李隽辉/摄2月26日，武汉同济医院光谷院区，ICU病房内，“护肾小队”与上海华山医院医疗队的医护人员一起，观察一名新冠肺炎患者在血液净化过程中的体征变化。
Zhongtongji Hospital, Wuhan February 26, Li meaningful Hui / She February 26, Wuhan Tongji Hospital Guanggu courtyard, ICU ward, "Kidney care team" and Shanghai Huashan Hospital Medical Team, to observe the changes of signs of a patient with new crown pneumonia in the process of blood purification.
中⻘报·中青网记者李隽辉/摄2月26日，武汉同济医院光谷院区，ICU病房内，“护肾小队”为一名病人做股静脉置管，这是为患者进行血液净化的前期工作。
Zhongtongji Hospital, Wuhan February 26, Li meaningful hui / She February 26, Wuhan Tongji Hospital Guanggu courtyard, ICU ward, the "kidney protection team" for a patient to do femoral vein catheterization, which is the prelude to the patient's blood purification.
中⻘报·中青网记者李隽辉/摄2月26日，武汉同济医院光谷院区，ICU病房内，护士长鄢建军（右二）在帮助调试血液净化机。
Zhongtongji Hospital Guanggu courtyard area, ICU ward, the head nurse Yang Jianjun (second right) is helping adjust the blood purifier.
中⻘报·中青网记者李隽辉/摄2月26日，武汉同济医院光谷院区，护士们在ICU病房内的护士台交流。
Zhongtongji Hospital, Wuhan February 26, Zhongzhi reporter Li meaningful hui / She February 26, Wuhan Tongji Hospital Guanggu courtyard area, nurses in the ICU ward to communicate.
中⻘报·中青网记者李隽辉/摄2月26日，武汉同济医院光谷院区，ICU病房内，郭水明医生在治疗间隙休息。
Zhongguan newspaper Zhongqing net reporter Li meaningful hui / She Feb 26, Wuhan Tongji Hospital Guanggu courtyard, ICU ward, Dr. Guo Shuiming in the interval between treatment.
中⻘报·中青网记者李隽辉/摄2月26日，武汉同济医院光谷院区，准备进病房前，护士们集中在清洁区用餐。
Zhong Zhongqing News reporter Li meaningful hui / She February 26, Wuhan Tongji Hospital Guanggu courtyard area, ready to enter the ward, nurses gathered in the cleaning area to eat.
疫情暴发后，他们中不少人住在医院病房改造的双人间里，很久没有回家了。
After the outbreak, many of them lived in converted double rooms in hospital wards and did not return home for a long time.
中⻘报·中青网记者李隽辉/摄2月26日，武汉同济医院光谷院区，后勤保障人员在搬运物资。
Zhongzhong News Zhongqing net journalist Li meaningful hui / She Feb. 26, Wuhan Tongji Hospital Guanggu courtyard area, logistics personnel are carrying supplies.
中⻘报·中青网记者李隽辉/摄2月26日，湖北省武汉市同济医院光谷院区，为了方便一线护士工作，整层的病房都被改造成了临时“宿舍”。
In order to facilitate front-line nurses, the whole floor ward was transformed into a temporary dormitory to facilitate the work of front-line nurses in the Guanggu Campus of Tongji Hospital in Wuhan, Hubei Province.
中⻘报·中青网记者李隽辉/摄2月26日 ，武汉同济医院光谷院区，血液净化中心护士万妞靠在走廊偷偷抹眼泪，她和1岁多的孩子已经有40多天没见面了。
Zhongtongji Hospital Guanggu courtyard district, Wuhan Tongji Hospital February 26, blood purification center nurse Wan Niu secretly wiping tears, she and more than a year-old children have not seen each other for more than 40 days.
中⻘报·中青网记者李隽辉/摄国务院联防联控机制2月29日新闻发布会的数据显示，国家援派湖北、武汉的医疗队中，一共派出5500余名重症专业的护士，约占派驻护士总人数的21%，重症专业的护士占重症医务人员总数的3/4。
According to the 29 February press conference, more than 5,500 medical teams from Hubei and Wuhan were sent by the state to provide intensive care services, accounting for about 21 percent of the total number of nurses deployed, and nurses specializing in severe diseases accounted for three-quarters of the total.
医疗队多以呼吸科、感染科和重症医学科的医生为主，肾科的医生和护士很少。
Medical teams are dominated by physicians in respiratory, infectious, and severe medicine, with few kidney doctors and nurses.
需要血液净化的患者都是危重症，细胞因子风暴出现的几率很高，需要提供精细化的护理。
Patients requiring blood purification are critically ill, and there is a high risk of cytokine storms requiring intensive care.
专人专守式的护理对人力资源消耗比较大，这也导致现在武汉血液透析的专科护士紧缺。
Specialized care for human resources consumption is relatively large, which also led to the current Wuhan hemodialysis specialist nurses shortage.
“不是不想换，是没人换。
"" No, I don't want to.
”鄢建军说。
"said Visayas Jianjun.
在他看来，现在是最吃劲的时期，如果能够把这些存量的病例消化掉，外面没有确诊的病人，也没有人再转重症，那就可以缓一口气了。
In his view, this was the most strenuous period, and if the stock of cases could be digested, there would be no confirmed cases outside, and no one would turn serious again, it would be a respite.
“现在就像打阻击战一样，每个人都很疲惫，甚至还有因感染减员的问题，但是阵地一定要守住，不能丢。
"Everyone is tired and even suffering from attrition, just like in the blockades, but the position must be there and not lost.
”他说。
'he said.
何凡也呼吁，希望能有血液净化科的护士来武汉支援他们，“毕竟已经超负荷工作很久了”。
He also called for nurses from the blood purification department to come to Wuhan to support them. "After all, they have been overworked for a long time."
2月26日，湖北省武汉市同济医院光谷院区，ICU病房内，一名护士坐在走廊尽头的椅子上睡着了。
A nurse sits in a chair at the end of a hallway in the Guanggu courtyard of Tongji Hospital in Wuhan, Hubei province, Feb. 26, 2006.
中⻘报·中青网记者李隽辉/摄  2月26日，武汉同济医院光谷院区，ICU病房内，上海华山医院医疗队的一名护士在在休息。
Zhong Zhongqing News Li meaningful hui / She February 26, Wuhan Tongji Hospital Guanggu courtyard, ICU ward, Shanghai Huashan Hospital Medical Team a nurse is resting.
该医疗队 中的6名血液净化科护士接管了ECMO设备，配合“护肾小队”治疗。
Six of the team's blood purification nurses took over the ECMO equipment in conjunction with the "Kidney Squad" treatment.
中⻘报·中青网记者李隽辉/摄2月26日，武汉同济医院光谷院区，ICU病房内，写着“加油”的橡胶手套。
Zhongyang newspaper Zhongqing net reporter Li meaningful hui / She February 26, Wuhan Tongji Hospital Guanggu courtyard, ICU ward, write "refueling" rubber gloves.
中⻘报·中青网记者李隽辉/摄中国青年报·中国青年网出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
Zhongyi Zhongqing News reporter Li meaningful / China Youth News China Youth Daily products micro-letter editor Chen Yi male thinks good-looking please click here.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
这支“护肾小队”专门对付“炎症风暴”。
The "Kidney Squad" deals with "inflammatory storms."
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "这支“护肾小队”专门对付“炎症风暴”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "“现在就像打阻击战一样，每个人都很疲惫，甚至还有因感染减员的问题，但是阵地一定要守住，不能丢。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "Everyone is tired now, just as it was in the Battle of Obstruction. There was even a problem with attrition, but the position must be kept and not lost.
”";。
";;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
