他们都是武汉人。
They are all Wuhan people.
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
2月15日，湖北省武汉市，雪中长江边的停船。
February 15, Wuhan, Hubei Province, snow in the Yangtze River to stop the ship.
中国青年报赵迪摄作者 中青报·中青网记者 秦珍子编辑 从玉华坐在老家内蒙古苏尼特右旗的大炕上，28岁的娜仁每天刷着手机，关注武汉的“社区网格信息”，看见“0”就高兴，隔着1600多公里，替楼上楼下的爹爹婆婆松一口气。
The 28-year-old brushes her mobile phone every day, paying attention to Wuhan "community grid information." She is happy to see "0" and breathes a sigh of relief for her parents-in-law upstairs and downstairs, more than 1600 kilometers away.
没封闭小区管理前，她看见图片里老人们凑着脑袋，在楼下晒花被子，就着急。
Before she closed the plot management, she saw pictures of old people put their heads together, in the downstairs sun flower quilt, worried.
她想回武汉回不去。
She wanted to go back to Wuhan.
她的猫、男友、创业项目和几乎全部日常生活都在武汉。
Her cat, boyfriend, entrepreneurial projects and almost all her daily life are in Wuhan.
她开了家小小的幼托机构，2019年下半年刚开始“不亏钱”。
She started a small childcare facility and started "no loss" in the second half of 2019.
她租的房子在积玉桥一个老社区，住的都是“爹爹婆婆”，大家很亲近。
The house she rented was in an old neighborhood of Jade Bridge, inhabited by "parents-in-law," and everyone was very close.
房租不能缓缴，老师的工资不能拖欠。
Rent cannot be deferred and teachers' salaries must not be in arrears.
最近一次支完钱，她账上还剩567元。
The last time she ran out of money, she had 567 yuan left on her account.
内蒙古的家里养着200只羊，写网文点击量不错，有人劝她干点别的，她不答应。
Inner Mongolia home keeps 200 sheep, writes the net text clicks the quantity to be good, someone advises her to do something else, she does not agree.
“办法总比困难多！”她说，“啥时候解禁，我还得回去呢。
"It's better than hard!" she said. "When do I have to go back?"
”过去心情不爽的时候，她会跨一遍长江大桥。
"She used to cross the Yangtze River Bridge when she was unhappy.
作为新武汉人，她和所有的武汉人共饮一江水。
As a new Wuhan people, she and all the Wuhan people drink a river.
1公元前300多年的一个故事，让2000多年后的18岁的娜仁，选择了去武汉上大学。
1 More than 300 BC a story, so that more than 2000 years later, 18-year-old Na Yan, chose to go to Wuhan University.
她学过古筝，热爱古典文化，满心期待伯牙子期相遇的地方。
She had studied Guzheng, loved classical culture, and looked forward to the place where her children met.
可一到汉口火车站，她的拉杆箱轱辘就“卡”住了，路太坑洼，车站“好老”。
Upon arrival at the Hankou Railway Station, her lever-cart rumbled out, the road was too potholes and the station was "good old."
“这是什么地方？”娜仁一次也没去过传说中知音初遇的琴断口。
"Where is this place?" Na Renren has never been to the legendary Chin break.
初来武汉，每天她都觉得要下雨，她说，“武汉的阳光太隐晦了，衣服永远晾不干。
When she first came to Wuhan, she felt it would rain every day. "The sun is too dim in Wuhan," she said.
”作家方方把这样潮湿的天气写进小说《琴断口》里。
The writer Fang Fang put such wet weather into the novel Chin Broken Chin.
冬天的小雪像“细粉”，落地即化，地上不结冰，只是湿漉漉的。
Winter snow like "fine powder", landed immediately, the ground does not freeze, just wet.
小说里的冬夜发生了大事，桥断了。
An important event happened on the winter night in the novel and the bridge was broken.
方方所处的现实世界，在这个冬天也发生了大事。
Fang Fang in the real world, this winter has also taken place a major event.
截至目前，全国累计确诊新冠肺炎80303例。
To date, a total of 80,303 new cases of pneumonia have been diagnosed nationwide.
从大年初一开始，这位作家每天写下一篇武汉日记。
From the beginning of New Year's Day, the writer wrote an Wuhan diary every day.
她曾任湖北省作协主席，得过一连串的文学奖，小说被改编成电影，还实名公开质疑过湖北省人社厅对某诗人的职称评定。
She was chairman of the Hubei Provincial Association, won a series of literary awards, adapted the novel into a film, and has openly questioned Hubei Provincial People's Association's assessment of a poet's job title.
这一切都没有像“武汉日记”那样，把她变成一个网红。
All this did not like the "Wuhan Diary," as she turned into a red net.
有人评价她是把手指按在伤口上的作家。
She was described as a writer who put her finger to the wound.
高速传播让这位习惯了“小众阅读”的作家感到恐惧，但她决定坚持写到封城结束的那天。
The high-speed spread horrified the author, who was used to "small reading," but decided to stick to it until the end of the city.
有人称她的日记就是武汉封城“信使”。
Some people call her diary is Wuhan sealed "messenger."
她的日记帮助民众理解政府的举措，却也不回避对一些前期处置的批评。
Her diary helps people to understand the government's actions, but it does not shy away from criticism of what has been done in the first place.
“我替你扛，你也得让我骂。
"I'll carry it for you, and you'll have to let me scold you.
”方方在一篇日记里写道。
Fang wrote in a diary.
一位武汉嫂子就“骂”得漂亮。
Wuhan sister-in-law on the "scold" beautiful.
一段微信语音曾在社交网络中疯传。
A segment of microphonetics has gone berserk in social networks.
网名“雨儿”的女声发出“连珠炮”，在微信群痛骂不负责任的社区和超市，包括买米强行搭售酱油和草纸、物资配送不力等，“沆瀣一气”“一丘之貉”结合国骂、方言，构成一封能喷出火的检举信。
Yuer "Yuer" the female voice issued a "continuous cannon", in the micro-faith groups scold irresponsible communities and supermarkets, including the purchase of rice imposed on the sale of soy sauce and grass paper, poor distribution of materials, "collude" and "like a dog," a combination of national abuse, dialects, constitute a fire-spewing letter.
这段“汉骂”引发关注后，相关部门已经介入调查。
After this paragraph "Han scold" causes the attention, the relevant department already intervenes in the investigation.
人们感受到武汉人的态度里的“辣度”和“锐度”，纷纷为这位女性叫好。
People feel Wuhan people's attitude in the "burning degree" and "sharpness," in succession for this woman applauded.
娜仁记得，大学时有一堂自习课，两个武汉男生为什么事吵起来，直到下课，还没吵完。
Na Ren remembers that there was a self-study class in college, and two Wuhan boys got into an argument until class was over.
“这边的人都好喜欢吵架啊！”她说，多小的事也能吵起来。
"People here love to fight," she said, and even the smallest things can be quarrelsome.
“喜欢扯皮，打嘴巴官司，不管事情解决没解决，要占个嘴巴舒服。
"It's bullshit, it's a case of mouth-busting," he says. "It's a big deal.
”徐珊珊说。
"said Xu Shanshan.
她在湖北襄阳长大，在武汉生活了20年，是位室内设计师。
She grew up in Xiangyang, Hubei Province. She lived in Wuhan for 20 years. She was an interior designer.
疫情发生后，她向媒体反映定点医院征用管理的问题，意外地加入了一个征集新闻线索和患者求助信息的微信群。
After the outbreak, she complained to the media about the management of hospital admissions and accidentally joined a small group of people seeking news leads and information about patients seeking help.
2许多人看到徐珊珊发布的求助信息征集帖，“哗啦塞来一大堆信息”。
Many people saw Xu's call for information, "a deluge of information."
她让对方稍微核实一下，一半人就没回音了。
She asked her partner to check it out a little, and the other half didn't answer.
“同情心足够，但需要自己付出的时候，就都懒得做。
"Sympathy is enough, but when you need to give, you don't bother to do it.
”“拧巴得很，有小爱，没大爱。
'Very well wrung, little love, no great love.
”徐珊珊说，自私和义气都在武汉人身上。
"Selfishness and loyalty lie with the Wuhan people," Xu said.
“我不为我，谁为我”的观念让他们在关乎自身的利益面前敢争、敢闹，自己的事儿搞定了，江湖义气又上来了，会去帮助别人。
"I don't for me, who for me" concept let them in front of their own interests, dare to fight, their own affairs have been done, Jianghuiqi will come up, will help others.
“就像很多人刚出院，就献血救人，这是武汉人的侠肝义胆。
"Like a lot of people just discharged from the hospital, donated blood to save people, this is the chivalrous Wuhan people.
”武汉人李勇对社区邻里展开了营救。
Wuhan man Li Yong rescue the neighborhood.
他家住武汉武昌黄鹤楼街道读书院社区。
He lives in Wuhan Wuchang Yellow Crane Tower Street School Community.
黄鹤楼三个字在中国文学史和建筑史中显赫了千年，中国孩子最初会背诵的唐诗里，一定有一首属于它。
Yellow Crane Tower in the history of Chinese literature and architecture for a thousand years, the Chinese children will initially recite Tang poetry, there must be one belongs to it.
屹立千年的古建筑见证了江边人的焦灼与挣扎。
Immobiliare's ancient buildings bear witness to the anxiety and struggles of the people along the river.
80岁的母亲确诊感染新冠病毒后，李勇和许多患者家属一样，通过社区、网络、媒体到处求救。
After his 80-year-old mother was diagnosed with the new crown virus, Li Yong, like many of his patients' families, sought help through the community, the Internet and the media.
因为老人发烧多日、病情恶化、排不到床位，他曾在打给记者的电话里大发脾气，并提到“这个社区感染的很多，有些人没确诊就走了”。
"The old man, who had a fever, worsened and was unable to get a bed, lost his temper during a telephone call to reporters and said" the community is infected so much that some people leave without being diagnosed. "
老人刚一入院，他就换了状态，开始帮助社区邻里联系就医，他会自己核实情况，编写详细的信息，多方传递。
As soon as the old man was admitted to hospital, he changed his status and began to help the neighborhood contact him for medical treatment.
这类故事那些天都发生在武汉城里。
Such stories take place in Wuhan these days.
转发一个可能联系到床位的电话，运送一个没有交通工具可用的病人，为封城后无家可归的人寻找住处，把急需的医疗物资带进医院。
Forward a phone call with a possible link to the bed, transport a patient with no means of transportation, find shelter for the homeless behind the city and bring urgently needed medical supplies to the hospital.
无数个微信群被建立起来，人们传递着各种各样的信息，探索自救与救助他人的路径。
Innumerable groups of micro-letters have been created, and people are passing messages of all kinds, exploring ways to save and help others.
这个城市上上下下都在强调隔离，将隔离进行到底，直到让病毒害不到人，可很多东西又怎么也隔不开。
The city up and down is emphasizing isolation, keeping it to the end until the virus can't get people, but a lot of things can't be separated.
有一家人，给感染新冠病毒的老人转了3次院，从卫生院到定点医院，费了大力气，可就是没想过“不管了”。
One family moved three times to the hospital, from the clinic to the designated hospital, but did not think of "no matter."
有年轻人在ICU门外为父母抢病床，也有老年夫妇互相搀扶徒步十几公里到医院，再排七八个小时队，去做检查。
There are young men fighting for their parents' beds outside the ICU, and elderly couples who walk a dozen kilometers to the hospital and wait seven or eight hours for a checkup.
还有人打开自家不算满的冰箱，取出一只鸡，挂到对门感染新冠病毒独居的老人的门把手上。
Others opened their not-so-full fridge, took out a chicken and hung it on the doorknob of an old man who lived alone with Newcap virus.
李敏和他的同事已经把29个新冠肺炎患者送出重症病房。
Li Min and his colleagues have taken 29 patients with Newcomial Pneumonia out of the intensive care unit.
作为中日友好医院呼吸重症医学科的医生，他是北京第一批支援湖北医疗队成员，掌握ECMO技术。
As a doctor breathing severe medicine in China-Japan Friendship Hospital, he was the first member of Beijing Medical Support Team to master ECMO technology.
他也是武汉人，口音里顽固地保留着方言的发音，父母兄弟都在家乡。
He is also Wuhan, accents stubbornly retain the pronunciation of dialects, parents and brothers are in their home.
从2008年算起，他只有两个春节在武汉度过。
From 2008 onwards, he only spent two Spring Festival in Wuhan.
今年大年初二，他飞抵故乡。
He flew to his hometown on the second day of New Year.
机舱里除了来自北京6家医院的同行，还有价值高昂的医疗设备。
In addition to colleagues from six hospitals in Beijing, the cabin has high-value medical equipment.
“回家了，又不可能回家。
'Home, and impossible to go home.
”他说。
'he said.
在与媒体沟通的大多数时间里，李敏都在谈论临床救治的办法，专业的医学名词接连不断地跳出来，不带任何情绪。
During most of the time she spent communicating with the media, Li Min talked about clinical treatment, and professional medical terms popped up one after another without emotion.
他用他的专业知识在治疗家乡。
He is using his expertise to cure his hometown.
走在武汉的病房里，他觉得和在北京的病房没有什么差别。
Walking in his room in Wuhan, he felt no different from that in Beijing.
在病毒面前，他顾不上自己的地域属性，护目镜外，只有病人。
In front of the virus, he did not care about his geographical attributes, goggles outside, only patients.
“心理准备我有，别的没什么要准备的。
I have nothing else to prepare.
”他说，在ICU工作多年，心态淡然。
He says years of working at the ICU have left him in a cool mood.
事实上在武汉，一些此前感染新冠病毒已痊愈的医护，又回去医院接着上班。
In fact, in Wuhan, some doctors and nurses who had previously been infected with the new crown virus returned to work.
也有一些人再也回不去了。
There are also people who can't go back.
整个武汉市，水电气网从未断过，头发长了有人剪，叫了外卖有人送。
The whole city of Wuhan, hydropower gas network has never been broken, hair has been cut, called take-out someone to send.
大街上空空荡荡，人们碗里的香辣，依然漫溢。
The streets are empty and the spicy food in people's bowls is still overflowing.
3“水流到哪儿，房子就建到水边。
Where the water goes, the house is built by the water.
”在武汉读了7年书的湖北人华浅说，密密编织的水系网络是这座城市的血管。
Huaxian, who has been reading in Wuhan for seven years, says the dense woven water network is the city's blood vessels.
人感染了新冠病毒，血氧饱和度会降低。
When a person is infected with the new crown virus, blood oxygen saturation decreases.
医院的氧气也一度告缺。
Oxygen was also in short supply at the hospital.
然而，病毒没法降低这座城市的血氧饱和度。
However, the virus did not reduce blood oxygen saturation in the city.
正月十五，超市里汤圆卖光。
On the fifteenth day of the first month.
有些小区，社区采购的车辆抵达，居民会蜂拥而至。
In some neighborhoods, when community-purchased vehicles arrive, residents flock to each other.
徐珊珊的朋友在上海看到自家社区抢菜的盛况，人群里找到老爸的身影，急得跳脚。
Xu Shan's friends in Shanghai to see their community to rob the feast, the crowd found the figure of his father, anxious jump.
娜仁的男友发来租屋楼下的照片——爹爹婆婆集体晒出花花绿绿的被子。
Naren's boyfriend sent a picture of the house downstairs - father and mother-in-law collectively out the colorful quilt.
娜仁的男友是武汉人，每天都和一群好友开“网络会议”，讲笑话，互相吐槽，直播做菜、打游戏。
Her boyfriend, a Wuhan native, holds "online meetings" with a group of friends every day, telling jokes, spitting on each other's pockets, broadcasting live food and playing games.
其中不乏家人确诊、隔离、入院治疗的。
Many of them were diagnosed, isolated and hospitalized by their families.
“焦虑的时候我会看看这个（群里的直播），这是一群隔离在家的武汉人。
"When I was worried I would see this [live broadcast from the group], a group of Wuhan people isolated at home.
”娜仁说，“这座城市比任何地方都要乐观。
"The city is more optimistic than anywhere else," she said.
”在内蒙古老家，娜仁所在的牧区地广人稀，一个村子只剩3户人家。
Back in Inner Mongolia, Naren's pastoral area is sparsely populated, leaving only three families in one village.
她迷上武汉浓浓的烟火气。
She was fascinated by the heavy smoke from Wuhan.
读书时，娜仁曾给一户武汉人家做家教，辅导一年级小朋友学语文。
Reading, Na Ren to a Wuhan family to do home tutor, tutor first-year children learn Chinese.
课快上完，她听见“爹爹婆婆”在屋里背着她讨论，要留她吃晚饭。
Near the end of the class, she heard "Daddy-in-law" in the room behind her back and asked her to stay for dinner.
明明是背后议论，声音却压不住：“造业（可怜的意思），一个小姑娘吖，还不好意思吃饭。
Clearly behind the back of the argument, but the voice can not suppress: "Construction (poor meaning), a young girl A, also embarrassed to eat.
”刚开始，她不习惯那种“自来熟”的热情，被拉扯着坐到桌边。
"At first she was not used to the" familiarity "and was dragged to the table.
后来，她多讲会儿课，然后留下来吃饭已经很平常。
Later, it was common for her to talk a little more and then stay for dinner.
租屋的邻里间也会送吃的，她早适应了。
She had adapted to the idea that food would be served in the neighborhood of the rented house.
有一段时间，她每天坐公交车，从南湖到取水楼上班，总有个到循礼门下车的婆婆站到她面前，“知道我会给她让座”。
There was a time when she took a bus from South Lake to work at the water table, and one of her mother-in-law, who got off at the gate, stood in front of her, knowing that I would give her a seat.
次数多了，娜仁心里很烦，“怎么那么爱占小便宜”。
The number of times, Na Renren was very upset, "How love so small cheap".
结果有一天，婆婆到站下车，照例把座位还给她，另一个婆婆要来抢座。
As a result, one day, mother-in-law to get out of the station, as usual returned her seat, another mother-in-law to snatch seats.
“这是小姑娘的座位！”两个婆婆大吵一架。
"This is the little girl's seat!" The two mothers-in-law quarreled.
娜仁惊讶极了，她和他乡的陌生人就这样产生了某种连结感。
Na Renren was so surprised that she developed a sense of connection with strangers in another country.
她曾去深圳实习，但最终还是舍不得离开武汉。
She went to Shenzhen for an internship, but eventually she was reluctant to leave Wuhan.
“这里的人开始很市民气，熟了就充满了人情味儿，讲义气，有家的感觉。
"People here are beginning to be very civic-minded, ripe full of human feelings, speak out, there is a sense of home.
”她觉得自己的性格比西北温和，又比南方直爽，“武汉刚刚好”。
"She felt her character was milder than the northwest, and more straightforward than the south," Wuhan just fine.
百步亭社区因“万家宴”被推上舆论的风口浪尖。
The hundred-foot-Ting community has been pushed to the top of public opinion because of the "family banquet."
传闻中，那里的居民有不少感染新冠病毒，境况危急。
Rumor has it that residents there are in critical condition with the new crown virus.
很多记者关注百步亭，不少居民接到了核实信息的电话。
Many reporters followed the kiosks, and many residents received phone calls to verify the information.
一位住在百步亭某小区的患者家属向媒体报送求床位的信息后，忽然问记者从哪里来，冷不冷，适不适应。
A family member of a patient living in a residential area of 100 steps to the media to send bed information, suddenly asked reporters from where, cold not cold, out of place.
也不管对方怎么解释，就反复念叨“你们北方人在这里不行的，要电热毯，我给你们送过去”。
No matter what the other side of the explanation, repeated: "You northerners here can not do, electric blanket, I will send to you."
烟火气和病毒僵持不下。
Fireworks and viruses are deadlocked.
方舱医院里，有人跳广场舞，有人练瑜伽，有人读书，喇叭里传出的不再是疾病相关知识，而是舒缓的音乐。
In the cabin hospital, people danced in the square, practiced yoga, read books, and sounded no longer disease-related knowledge, but soothing music.
重症病床上，也有患者缠磨护士，就想吃一个苹果。
On the sickbed, there are also patients grinding nurses, just want to eat an apple.
习惯了“冰火两重天”的武汉人自有解构悲伤的法子。
Accustomed to "two days of ice fire" Wuhan people have their own way of deconstructing grief.
有媒体“一本正经”地采访火神山的工人，一工人说：“为国家做点儿事情，以后好跟孩子吹牛。
One worker said, "Do something for the country so that you can brag to your children later."
”一个刚住进了武展方舱的病人说，这下好了，以前来武展，还要门票，现在免费，住够。
'Now, 'said a patient who had just entered the cabin of the martial arts exhibition,' I used to come to the exhibition, and tickets are now free and sufficient.
很多武汉人嘴里脏话不少，但只有在不同语境里，才能明白骂声是咸还是甜。
Many Wuhan people mouth dirty words, but only in different contexts, can understand whether the curse is salty or sweet.
比如，有人吃上了方舱的第一顿午餐，抹着嘴说：“狗日的，太好吃了。
For example, someone ate the first meal in the cabin, wiped his mouth and said, "Dog day, it's delicious.
”比如，躺在病床吸着氧气，蔫蔫的，他也会喘着粗气说：“老子就不信你的邪。
For example, lying in his hospital bed, sucking oxygen and listless, he will gasp: "Lao Tzu doesn't believe your evil spirits.
”可不，在病毒这“孙子”面前，他再弱，也是老子。
"Well, in front of the" grandson "of the virus, he was as weak as Lao Tzu.
武汉，大江大湖，波澜不惊。
Wuhan, the Great Lakes, uneventful.
在某处方舱，一个姑娘在哭泣，路人经过时说，“我妈妈昨天也走了。
In one of the cabins, a girl was crying. A passer-by said, "My mother left yesterday, too.
”风依然在吹，家门口的江水滚滚向东，日子还在继续。
The wind was still blowing, and the river rolled eastward in front of my house, and the days went on.
他们来自这城市的每一个角落。
They come from every corner of the city.
有历史感浓郁的“卓刀泉解甲院”，也有各种“星城”“华府”“公馆”“俪舍”。
There is a strong sense of history "Zhuo Dao-quan Jiejia hospital," but also a variety of "Star City," "Washington," "House" and "Li Shou.
江流千古，江边的人们对生活的热望不息。
The river flows through the ages, the people along the river are always looking forward to life.
一位一直值班的武汉自来水厂工人对女儿承诺：“好好学习，给你买AJ（运动鞋）。
Wuhan Waterworks worker who has been on duty promised his daughter: "Study hard and buy you AJ (sneakers).
”还有一位有移民打算的大学老师，她的姐姐已经移民到加拿大多年。
"There is also a college teacher with immigration plans whose sister has emigrated to Canada for years.
李文亮走的那天，姐妹俩在地球的两端流泪。
The day Li Wenliang left, the sisters wept at both ends of the earth.
姐姐在西半球说：“我每天都在刷武汉的消息，我从来就没离开过武汉。
"My sister said in the Western Hemisphere:" I brush Wuhan every day news, I have never left Wuhan.
”这个大学老师说，这一夜，她放弃了移民打算，“文化的根”是移不动的。
"The university teacher said she had given up immigration overnight and that the" roots of culture "could not be moved.
她希望孩子除了读《哈利·波特》，还要多读《诗经》《离骚》。
She wanted her child to read more than Harry Potter and the Book of Songs.
“我很喜欢武汉，能从街道里读出光阴的故事。
"I like Wuhan so much that I can read the story of time from the street.
”徐珊珊说，她参与过武汉老建筑改造的项目，熟悉这座城市的历史。
Xu said she had been involved in projects to rebuild Wuhan's old buildings and was familiar with the city's history.
她反感“管谁都叫拐子（大哥）的不靠谱”，却又对“码头文化”怀着眷恋：“一个人可以当一条团队用的，战斗力很强。
She resents the idea of calling anyone a kidnapper, but she is sentimentally attached to the wharf culture: "One can be a team player with a strong fighting capacity.
”娜仁如今说一口流利的武汉话，“没人听得出我是内蒙古的”。
"No one can tell I'm from Inner Mongolia," Na'ren now speaks fluent Wuhan.
她天性里的倔强，在这座战斗力满格、固执不服输的城市，找到了容身之处。
The stubbornness of her nature found shelter in a city full of fighting power and stubborn resistance to defeat.
“我的幼托中心不会垮，我不会让它垮。
"My crèche won't break down, I won't let it.
”她说，“我写写小说，搞搞直播，也就缓过来了。
'she said.' I wrote a novel, and made it live, and came round again.
”中国青年报·中国青年网出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
"China Youth Daily & amp; China Youth Net & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
他们都是武汉人。
They are all Wuhan people.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "他们都是武汉人";。
var msg _ title = & quot; they all belonged to Wuhan & quot;;
var msg_desc = "共饮一江水";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
