我在监控里，看着武汉城里的爸爸和奶奶。
I was watching, watching my father and grandmother in Wuhan.
吴美芬。
Wu Mei Fen.
云林街十七号                      。
17 Yunlin Street.
云林街十七号。
17 Yunlin Street.
这场战役 我们与你们同在。
We are with you in this battle.
翁文的爸爸和奶奶，在武汉相继患上了新冠肺炎。
Weng Wen's father and grandmother, in Wuhan has been suffering from the new crown pneumonia.
在北京工作的翁文，每天只能通过监控，关注着他们的一举一动。
Weng Wenwen, who works in Beijing, can only monitor and follow their every move every day.
几经折腾，爸爸终于入院，83岁的奶奶却依旧孤立无援。
After much ado, Dad finally went to hospital, but 83-year-old Grandma is still alone.
文| 吴美芬翁文是一名在北京工作的武汉人，他远在武汉的爸爸61岁，奶奶83岁。
Wu Mei-wen, a Wuhan native who works in Beijing, is 61 years old from his father in Wuhan and 83 from his grandmother.
爸爸和奶奶平日里相互照顾，最近相继患上了新冠病毒肺炎。
My father and grandmother often take care of each other and recently developed pneumonia due to the new crown virus.
人无法回到武汉，翁文只能每天24小时通过监控，观察他们在家中的情况。
People can not return to Wuhan, Wengwen can only 24 hours a day through monitoring, observation of their situation at home.
随着翁文爸爸和奶奶病情的加重，他们在武汉的遭遇变得愈发艰难。
As Weng Wen's father and grandmother became seriously ill, their experience in Wuhan became even more difficult.
爸爸作为疑似病人被社区带走，强行在宾馆隔离了两天，因为缺乏医护条件，导致原有的肾病严重恶化，精神几度崩溃，幸好随后被确诊入院。
The father was taken by the community as a suspected patient and was forcibly isolated in a hotel for two days because of the lack of medical care, which led to a serious deterioration of the original kidney condition, several episodes of mental breakdown and, fortunately, subsequent hospitalization.
爸爸被带走后，83岁的奶奶一个人生活、一个人看病，举步维艰。
After Dad was taken away, 83-year-old Grandma was struggling to live alone and to see a doctor alone.
我和翁文在2月3日取得了联系，他远在北京，一直焦急地为爸爸和奶奶联系当地社区和医院安排救治。
Weng Wenwen and I made contact on Feb. 3, and he was far away in Beijing, anxiously arranging for my father and grandmother to contact the local community and the hospital for treatment.
发生在他爸爸和奶奶身上的求医经历，是武汉老年新型肺炎患者群体遭遇的缩影。
The experience of seeking medical treatment on his father and grandmother is the epitome of the new type of pneumonia in Wuhan.
这一群老年人，到底该由谁来负责？以下是翁文的自述：被社区集中隔离的父亲1月23日，我爸爸开始发热，并伴随着咳嗽、流鼻涕、打喷嚏等症状。
On January 23, my father began to get feverish and developed symptoms such as coughing, runny nose and sneezing, according to Weng Wen's self-report.
除了1月20日和22日，爸爸去市场买过菜之外，他再没出过门。
Except on January 20 and 22, when Dad went to the market to buy food, he never went out.
这两个市场在武汉比较偏远的地方，爸爸只在市场门口停留过，没有和其他人发生直接或者近距离的接触。
These two markets in Wuhan relatively remote places, father only in the market door stay, no direct or close contact with other people.
爸爸出现发热症状后，我有点慌。
I got a little nervous when dad had a fever.
但考虑他没有呼吸障碍或者呼吸紧迫的症状，且很少出门，我以为是感冒或者甲、乙流感。
But considering that he did not have respiratory problems or symptoms of shortness of breath, and rarely went out, I thought it was a cold or influenza A or B.
所以最开始，我们选择进行居家隔离，并结合中草药和可乐必妥、奥司他韦等消炎药进行治疗。
So at first, we opted for home isolation, combined with Chinese herbs and colapidol, oseltamivir and other anti-inflammatory drugs for treatment.
直到1月29日，爸爸的病情都没见好转。
Until January 29, Dad was not in better shape.
他每天都会发烧到38.6℃左右，1月29日体温高达38.9℃。
He has a fever of about 38.6 degrees Celsius every day and a fever of 38.9 on January 29.
每天都靠吃退烧药维持，头一晚上吃，第二天体温能够降到36℃左右。
Daily maintenance by taking antipyretics, the first night to eat, the next day temperature can be down to about 36 degrees Celsius.
可退烧药治标不治本，他的病情不断恶化。
The symptoms and causes of fever can be cured and his condition is deteriorating.
后来，消炎药和抗甲流感的特效药也没用了，爸爸的尿液逐步变少，腰酸背疼，精神萎靡不振。
Later, anti-inflammatory drugs and anti-influenza specific drugs are also useless, the father's urine gradually reduced, backache, the spirit of lethargy.
之前几天，我在监控里还能看到他坐在客厅看电视。
A few days ago, I could still see him sitting in the living room watching TV.
到了1月29日，他的精神就很差了。
By January 29, he was in a bad mood.
腰特别酸疼，尤其是肾脏的部位。
The waist is particularly sore, especially in the kidneys.
爸爸本来就有慢性肾炎，最怕的就是发烧，因为一旦发烧，肾炎可能会转移成尿毒症，到最后就是肾衰，那时就没法治了。
Dad has chronic nephritis, the most afraid is fever, because once fever, nephritis may be transferred to uremia, and eventually kidney failure, then there is no rule of law.
我们本来是不想给政府添乱的，不想去占用更多的医疗资源。
We didn't want to mess with the government and take up more medical resources.
所以刚有症状时，我们选择居家隔离和观察用药。
So when we first had symptoms, we opted for home isolation and observed medication.
可是保守治疗了那么久，没有任何作用。
But the conservative treatment lasted so long, it had no effect.
1月29日，爸爸高温38.9℃，去武汉科技大学发热门诊检查血液和肺部CT等，医生确诊是新冠病毒感染，让赶快找医院住院。
January 29, Dad high temperature 38.9 degrees Celsius, Wuhan University of Science and Technology fever clinic to check blood and lung CT, doctors confirmed a new crown virus infection, let quickly find hospitals.
我和爸爸说，基本推断如医生所说，还必须要试剂盒才能确认，并上报给社区。
My father and I said that the basic assumption was that, as the doctor said, a kit was needed to confirm it and report it to the community.
爸爸陆续辗转各个医院，想做核酸检测。
Dad was rolling around the hospitals, trying to do nucleic acid tests.
他先后去了天佑医院、672医院、陆总医院、最后到了七医院，在七医院排队等了7、8个小时也没排上，饭也没吃。
He went to the Heavenly Hospital, 672 hospitals, the General Hospital of the Army, and finally to the Seventh Hospital, where he waited in line for seven or eight hours and did not eat.
19点34分，我得到社区通知，让爸爸回来准备去医院，把常用物品都带着，120马上到楼下。
At 19: 34, I was notified by the community that Dad would come back to the hospital with all the things he normally used.
爸爸急匆匆赶回来，回到小区，没进家门。
Dad hurried back to the community, did not enter the house.
他让奶奶准备了一些洗漱用品、几件厚衣服、吃饭碗筷以及治疗高血压的药，放在门外，他上去拿了就下楼。
He asked his grandmother to prepare some toiletries, some heavy clothes, food and chopsticks and medicine for high blood pressure. He went up and took them and went downstairs.
21点22分，来了一辆中巴车。
At 21: 22, a minibus arrived.
不是120的救护车，是私家车。
Not 120 ambulances. Private cars.
那种大批发市场运菜的车子，很旧，很破，车内大部分座位已拆除，属非法改装。
The large wholesale market, which carries vegetables, is very old, broken, most of the seats in the car have been removed, illegal conversion.
爸爸上了所谓的120车，车子沿途还接了另外六个人。
Dad got on the so-called 120-car, and six other people were picked up along the way.
去的也不是医院，而是隔离点，新的隔离宾馆。
It's not the hospital. It's the quarantine. The new secluded hotel.
隔离点被锁住的大门我晚上都要疯了。
The locked door of the quarantine I'm going crazy at night.
爸爸在发烧，没有医生、没有护士、没有药、没有试剂盒、只有一盒泡面。
Dad had a fever, no doctor, no nurse, no medicine, no kit, just a box of noodles.
隔离点的负责人拒绝接电话。
The man in charge of the quarantine refuses to answer the phone.
1月30日早晨，爸爸肾脏病情加重，精神崩溃，发来一条信息：“这里没有医护工作者，也没有药和体温计，什么都没有。
On the morning of January 30, Dad's kidneys got worse and he broke down, sending a message: "There are no medical workers, no medicine, no thermometers, nothing.
过了一晚，现在病情日益加重，己经没有尿了，再不釆取自救，估计马上要死了。
After a night, now getting worse and worse, had no urine, no more self-help, estimated to die soon.
”我打电话问了社区，才知道宾馆地点：武汉市洪山区青菱中路特一号驿海柏曼酒店。
I called the community and found out where the hotel was located: Qingling Zhongrut No. 1, Hongshan District, Wuhan.
大门已被铁链子上锁。
The gate was chained.
我的亲人想要曝光，但打各种电话，都打不通，占线。
My loved ones want to be exposed, but they can't get through all kinds of phone calls. The line is busy.
13点27 分，爸爸急着要去医院，但隔离点负责人不让出去，要求爸爸写免责保证书。
At 13: 27, Dad was anxious to go to the hospital, but the head of the quarantine point refused to go out and asked Dad to write a disclaimer.
爸爸写了免责保证书后，隔离点也不放他出去。
When Dad wrote the release bond, he was not allowed out of the quarantine.
爸爸写的保证书下午，隔离点统一安排他们去了湖北省荣军医院做核酸检测。
Dad wrote a pledge in the afternoon, the isolation point arranged for them to go to Hubei Invalids Hospital for nucleic acid testing.
18时，爸爸说，核酸已检查完，满城尽是救护车。
At 1800 hours, Dad said that the nucleic acid had been checked and the city was full of ambulances.
晚上，爸爸又回到了什么都没有的隔离宾馆，偶尔有人来测一下体温，或者发一下泡面，有时候也会发盒饭和退烧药。
At night, Dad went back to the deserted guesthouse. Occasionally someone would come to take a temperature test, or make a noodle, and sometimes a boxed rice or antipyretic.
隔天的下午，爸爸被告知，检测48小时以后才能出结果。
The next afternoon, Dad was told that the results would not be available until 48 hours after the test.
这时爸爸发烧到了38.5℃以上。
Dad had a fever of more than 38.5 degrees Celsius.
另一边，在家里的奶奶开始有了乏力、腹泻、出汗、胸闷等疑似症状。
On the other hand, the grandmother at home began to have fatigue, diarrhea, sweating, chest tightness and other suspected symptoms.
我邀请所有的亲戚入家庭群，开始做最坏的准备。
I invited all my relatives into the family group to prepare for the worst.
2月1日下午6时，48小时已到，但检测依然未出结果，爸爸精神再次崩溃。
By 6 p.m. on 1 February, 48 hours had passed, but the tests had not yet yielded results and Dad was again in a state of nervous breakdown.
我再次感到快疯了。
I feel like I'm going crazy again.
社区和政府承诺给我们的东西都没实现。
What the community and the Government have promised us has not materialized.
我一直在想办法自救，什么途径都尝试过了，但还是没有找到。
I've been trying to help myself. I've tried everything, but I haven't found it.
2月2日中午，隔离点开始安排爸爸去672医院，并说隔离点直接对接医院，并不提供诊断单据。
At noon on 2 February, the quarantining point began arranging for the father to go to hospital 672, stating that the isolation point docked directly with the hospital and did not provide diagnostic documentation.
爸爸总算住进了医院，有医生护士可以照顾他了。
Dad was finally admitted to the hospital and had a doctor and nurse to take care of him.
如果还在隔离宾馆，基本上连可以求助的人都没有，欲哭无泪，门给上锁，门卡不给他，家人也不可以去探视。
If he was still in a quarantined hotel, there were basically no people to turn to for help, tears were shed, doors were locked, he was not given a gate card and his family was not allowed to visit him.
就算给探视也去不了，因为武汉的交通被禁，大家哪也去不了。
Even to visit can not go, because Wuhan traffic is banned, everyone can not go anywhere.
我反复跟爸爸强调，要找到医生、护士或者政府方面的人拿到确诊报告。
I repeatedly told my dad to find doctors, nurses, or people from the government to get a diagnosis.
但直到现在也还没拿到。
But I haven't got it yet.
不过，我确定他是确诊了，因为他就住在672医院，这家医院只收确诊的病人。
However, I am sure he is diagnosed, as he lives in the 672 hospital, which only accepts confirmed patients.
爸爸的CT结果独自在家的奶奶发病这些天，我们一直在监控奶奶的体温。
Dad's CT Results Left Grandma at Home Alone These days, we've been monitoring Grandma's temperature.
由社区安排物业帮忙测量，早晚各一次，他们人很好，还帮我观察奶奶的状况。
The community arranges the property to help measure, sooner or later, each time, they are very good, but also helps me to observe the grandmother's condition.
2月2日下午，奶奶体温突然高达37.4℃，爸爸提出赶紧去医院，同时我和社区报告了此事。
On the afternoon of February 2, Grandma's temperature suddenly reached 37.4 degrees Celsius, my father asked to go to the hospital, and I and the community reported it.
本来社区是安排奶奶去确诊病人家属的隔离点的，但是奶奶已经烧到了38°，属于发热病人，因此达不到确诊病人家属隔离点的条件，只能去发热的疑似病人隔离点。
The community had arranged for Grandma to identify the isolation point for the patient's family, but the grandmother had burned to 38 ° and was therefore unable to meet the conditions for the identification of the patient's family isolation point and had to go to the suspected patient isolation site with fever.
但疑似病人隔离点的条件，是需要血液检查和肺部CT。
But the condition of suspected patient isolation is the need for a blood test and pulmonary CT.
奶奶没有独立去医院检查的能力。
Grandma was not able to go to the hospital alone.
无法取得检查结果，自然也去不了隔离点。
The results cannot be obtained and the isolation points cannot be reached.
最近的亲属在20公里以外，没有隔离服，甚至没有优质的口罩。
The closest relatives were 20 kilometres away, without isolated clothing or even quality masks.
我们都希望有隔离服的社区，能派人送奶奶去。
We all want communities with segregated clothing to send grandma.
社区则希望我们有家属陪同，因为如果奶奶半路有任何事情发生，110、120、社区都担不起责任。
The community wanted us to be accompanied by family because if anything happened to Grandma halfway, the community couldn't take responsibility.
下午，爸爸想从672医院里出来，去带奶奶检查。
In the afternoon, Dad wanted to come out of the 672 hospital and take Grandma for an examination.
护士医生把他拦了下来了，爸爸只好自我鼓励，“人生自古谁无死”。
Nurse doctor stopped him, father had to encourage himself, "life has never died."
19点32分，奶奶又发烧了，我想发微信给社区书记沟通怎么办，却发现在未告知情况下，被他删了微信。
At 19: 32, Grandma has a fever again, I want to send a message to the community secretary how to communicate, but found in the absence of information, he deleted micro-letter.
社区书记删掉了我的微信社会和国家呼吁我们求助社区，社区书记却把我的微信给删了，至今也没有一个说法。
The community secretary erased my micro-faith society and the state called on us to help the community, but the community secretary deleted my message, to this day no statement.
我觉得他舍弃了“人民”，舍弃了像我奶奶这样83岁的老人。
I think he left the "people" behind an 83-year-old man like my grandmother.
我开始给120、110、街道办事处打电话，他们均说政府让社区接管所有筛查工作，接送疑似病人也由社区负责。
I started calling 120, 110, street offices, all of which said the government had the community take over all the screening, and the community was responsible for transporting the suspected patients.
（音频已作变声处理）我们社区委员会有13个工作人，整个社区人数不到1万，目前确诊病人是5人。
Our community committee has 13 working people and the total number of people in the community is less than 10,000. The number of patients diagnosed is 5.
作为一线抗疫人员，他们的精神压力确实比较大。
As frontline anti-epidemic personnel, their mental stress is really greater.
但如果我是社区书记，我绝对不会删掉一个有求于我的人的微信，更何况我本身就有责任，在他需要时去帮助他。
But if I were a community secretary, I would never delete a letter from someone who asked for me, let alone my own responsibility to help him in his hour of need.
本来准备去隔离点的奶奶，打包好了行李22点多，奶奶在38.2℃情况下未吃退烧药，坚持睡觉了。
Grandma, who was going to go to the quarantine point, packed her bags for more than 22 o'clock, and Grandma did not take any antipyretics at 38.2 degrees Celsius and went to bed.
我心忐忑。
My heart perturbed.
2月3日下午，多方沟通后，社区终于派人送奶奶去医院检查。
On the afternoon of February 3, after much communication, the community finally sent Grandma to the hospital for examination.
在医院里没有人陪，83岁的奶奶，一个人做检查。
There's no one in the hospital, 83-year-old grandma, doing the tests alone.
经检查，医生确诊奶奶患上了新冠病毒肺炎，并告知要快速找医院住。
Upon examination, the doctor confirmed that Grandma had contracted Newcastle virus pneumonia and told her to find a hospital quickly.
奶奶没医院住，只能回家等社区再另行安排。
Grandma did not live in hospital, but had to go home and wait for the community to rearrange.
奶奶的确诊报告我奶奶本来就有三级高血压、冠心病和胃食管反流等疾病，还是糖尿病的潜在患者。
Grandma's diagnosis reported that my grandmother was already suffering from tertiary hypertension, coronary heart disease and gastroesophageal reflux, and was a potential diabetic.
只有她住进医院，我的心才会放下。
Only if she lives in the hospital will my heart break down.
我希望社区和政府，能够让我83岁、重病独居的奶奶，有机会去医院。
I want the community and the government to give my 83-year-old grandmother, who is seriously ill and living alone, the chance to go to the hospital.
尽管床位非常艰难，但是我也希望她能入院。
Though the bed is very difficult, I hope she will be admitted to the hospital.
死生各安天命，我不会强求医院一定把她救活。
I'm not going to force the hospital to save her life.
我也不会去医闹，更不会去责怪医护工作者。
I'm not going to be a doctor, and I'm not blaming health care workers.
我知道医务工作者的压力非常大。
I know medical workers are under a lot of pressure.
我本身就是一个医护工作者的家属，所以我能够理解。
I'm a family member of a health care worker, so I understand.
我奶奶曾经是一个国营工厂的纺织工人，12岁开始在工厂工作。
My grandmother used to be a textile worker in a state-owned factory and started working in a factory at the age of 12.
爷爷早年因为交通意外去世，她靠着自己的劳动支撑起整个家庭。
Grandpa died in an accident in her early years, and she supported the whole family on her own labor.
作为武汉人，我时刻想着能够为家乡人做一些事情。
As a Wuhan person, I always want to be able to do something for home people.
但现在爸爸刚住进医院，奶奶独自在医院做检查，我无心做别的事情。
But now that Dad is in the hospital and Grandma is doing the tests alone, I have no intention of doing anything else.
政府是有责任救助她的，这是一个公共卫生事件。
The government had a responsibility to save her. It was a public health event.
国家是有责任，救助这些人的。
It is the responsibility of the State to rescue these people.
我奶奶从来都不怕死。
My grandmother never fears death.
这几年她一直念叨着，去世后要把遗体捐给医务工作者和医学院的学生。
Over the years she has been talking about how she would donate her body to medical workers and medical students after her death.
虽然家里其他人不同意，我一直都是很支持的。
Although the rest of the family didn't agree, I was always supportive.
可是，如果这次我奶奶患的新型冠状病毒肺炎没有治好，我连骨灰都见不到，还怎么把遗体捐献给医务工作者呢？「云林街十七号」推出征集活动无论你是医护人员、患者，还是普通人都可以点击“阅读原文”和我们联系最近，我们收到了很多人爱心人士发来的视频，还有人想要加入我们的志愿团队。
However, if my grandmother's new coronavirus pneumonia is not cured and I can't see the ashes, how can I donate the body to the medical staff?
真的谢谢大家的关注和支持！借一位受访者的话很送给大家：“樱花还会再开”。
Thank you for your attention and support! Thanks to the words of one interviewee, "cherry blossoms will bloom again."
报名参与“故事征集”。
Sign up for the Story Collection.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
我在监控里，看着武汉城里的爸爸和奶奶。
I was watching, watching my father and grandmother in Wuhan.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "文学";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "云林街十七号";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; 17 Yunlin Street;;
var msg_title = "我在监控里，看着武汉城里的爸爸和奶奶";。
var msg _ title = & quot; I was monitoring and looking at Dad and Grandma & quot;; at Wuhan.
var msg_desc = "​世界上最远的距离。
var msg _ desc = & quot; v. the furthest distance in the world.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="云林街十七号";。
var title = & quot; 17 Yunlin Street; & quot;
