疫情下的书店深冬：图书行业的惊蛰何时来临？。
Deep Winter in an Epidemic Bookstore: When Is the Book Industry Stung?
潘文捷。
Pan Wenjie.
界面文化                      。
Interface culture.
界面文化。
Interface culture.
在这里，与最优质的文化原创内容相遇。
Here, and the most quality of the original cultural content to meet.
。
.
“疫情迟迟没有尽头，书店撑不住了。
"There's no end to the epidemic. The bookstore can't last.
”2月24日，单向空间发布了一封续命救助信，称受新冠疫情影响，书店2月份收入较往年下滑80%，希望发起50元至8000元不等的众筹助力计划。
On Feb. 24, a one-way space release said revenue at the bookstore fell 80% in February from a year earlier amid fears of a new wave of crowdfunding plans ranging from $50 to $8,000.
这一举措引发了“做书”公号的批评，一篇题为《只靠情怀充值能拯救单向空间吗？》的文章指责单向空间这样网红体质的书店这个时候出来呼救，反而透支了文青的钱包，让更多开在城市社区的独立书店、二三四线城市中的“沙漠绿洲”得不到关注。
The move prompted criticism of the book-making banner, "Can one-way space be saved by emotional recharge?" The article accuses one-way space of such a red-hot bookstore coming out this time to call for help, only to overdraw Wenqing's wallet and leave more of it unnoticed in independent bookstores in urban communities and "oases of the desert" in two or four-lane cities.
之所以“透支文青钱包”的隐忧存在，是因为在一个多月漫长的疫情状态之下，无论是大城市里的网红书店还是二三四线城市的小书店，都已经没有顾客、销售停滞，纷纷采取多种措施试图自救。
The reason why the "overdraft Wenqing wallet" is that in a long epidemic of more than a month, whether in the big cities of the net red bookstore or the small bookstores in the 24-line city, there are no customers, sales have stagnated, a variety of measures to try to save themselves.
实际上，不仅是书店，整个图书行业各个环节都受到了疫情波及，其中实体书店受到的影响最为严重和明显。
In fact, not only bookstores, the entire book industry has been affected by the epidemic, among which the physical bookstore is the most serious and obvious impact.
界面文化（ID：Booksandfun）在采访中发现，第一，线上书店遇到的最大困难是大多数仓库未复工，无法发货，中国图书网推出“88元任选10本”活动以解决现金流问题；第二，大型电商如当当虽称图书销售未受影响，但也因有员工确诊新冠肺炎而使消费者感到恐慌；第三，实体书店面临双重考验，一方面老问题依旧存在——电商已经把实体书店“打”得体无完肤，国家和资本补助并未能帮助书店增强自身的造血功能，另一方面新的契机正在出现，越来越多书店在疫情中开始实验线上活动、线上直播、线上众筹等等生存出路。
First, the biggest problem with online bookstores is that most of them are not back to work and cannot be shipped. Second, the country's online bookstore faces a double-edged problem: state and capital subsidies have failed to help bookstores boost their hematopoietic function.
中国图书网推出“88元任选10本”活动针对实体书店目前的困境，政府出台了一些相关措施。
China Book Network launched "88 yuan optional 10 books" campaign to address the current plight of the physical bookstore, the government has introduced some relevant measures.
例如2月26日北京市委宣传部就2020年北京市实体书店扶持工作发出通知，协调出版单位在图书供货、回款账期、营销活动等方面为实体书店提供更多便利和支持，倡议回款账期延长3-6个月；协调电商平台对书店免收或降低入驻费用，并给予特殊费率优惠和流量补贴等。
For example, on February 26, the Publicity Department of the Beijing Municipal Government issued a circular on support work for bookstores in Beijing in 2020, and coordinated publishing units to provide more convenience and support to physical bookstores in terms of book supply, repayment period and marketing activities.
政策救援与勉力自救并行，图书行业能够撑过寒冬吗？1出版社：免费或低价开放资源的“双刃剑”2月5日，武汉方舱医院青年捧读福山《政治秩序的起源》的照片在社交网络上广为流传，“理想国”受此激励推出了一个线上活动，“看理想”和“理想国”陆续开放了1300多集节目和20多本电子书的收听和阅读权限。
2007-3-1 00: 00 Utopia Opens More than 1,300 TV episodes and more than 20 e-books have been opened up to the public by Wuhan Fangkang Hospital on Feb. 5, 2007, as photos of the origins of political order in Wuhan Fangkang Hospital spread widely on social networks.
读者可以在看理想APP免费收听节目，也可以在理想国图书旗舰店以每本1元钱的价格领取20多本电子书。
You can watch the ideal APP for free, or you can get more than 20 e-books for $1 each at Utopia's flagship book stores.
与这一做法类似，商务印书馆人文社科知识服务平台的上千余种电子图书资源也向社会免费开放，其下属的《英语世界》杂志限期免费开放所有杂志电子版内容。
Similarly, more than a thousand e-book resources of the Humanities and Social Science Knowledge Service Platform of the Commercial Press are also available free of charge to the public, and its English World magazine has a deadline for free electronic access to all its electronic content.
花城出版社则在“爱花城”APP上以免费阅读的形式推出了共19年的《花城》杂志电子版。
Flower City Press launched the 19-year-old digital edition of Flower City magazine in a free reading format on the Aihua City APP.
武汉方舱医院，青年捧读福山《政治秩序的起源》南方出版传媒股份有限公司总编辑兼花城出版社社长肖延兵告诉界面文化，推出这些免费举措，一方面是希望发挥文学抚慰伤痛、鼓舞人心的作用，体现应有的责任担当，另一方面也让花城吸引了更多读者。
Wuhan Fangkang Hospital, the young people to read Fushan "the origin of political order" Southern Publishing Media Co. Ltd. and director of Hua Cheng Press told the interface culture, these free initiatives, on the one hand, hope to play a soothing, inspiring role of literature, reflect due responsibility, on the other hand, let flower city attract more readers.
免费开放阅读资源以后，“爱花城”平台上的文学作品阅读量大幅度提升，花城出版社的音乐电子教材每天都有数十万的下载次数。
Free and open reading resources, the "Ai Hua City" platform on the reading volume of literature has increased significantly, Huacheng Publishing House music electronic teaching materials every day hundreds of thousands of downloads.
从客观上来看，此次疫情更加明确了“出版融合”的发展趋势，也更坚定了花城出版社做数字出版的决心。
Objectively, this epidemic situation has made the trend of "publishing convergence" clearer, but also strengthened the determination of Huacheng Publishing House to do digital publishing.
但出版社开放免费或低价资源也是一把“双刃剑”。
But a free or low-cost publishing house is also a "double-edged sword."
山东友谊出版社社长兼总编辑何慧颖在接受百道网访谈时分析认为，出版社的免费共享可以起到很好的广告宣传作用，为今后纸质书的热销奠定基础。
Shandong Friendship Publishing House President and Editor-in-Chief He Huiying in an interview with Baudao network, the free sharing of publishing houses can play a good role in advertising, for the future of the paper-based book sales.
不过，对一部分图书来讲，也可能由于过度透支图书内容而影响到纸质书的销售，“非常时期的无条件免费线上共享，充分体现了国有文化企业的责任担当，但长期这样免费共享下去，恐怕也不是大部分出版社能够吃得消的。
However, for some books, it may also affect the sales of paper books due to excessive overdraft of book content. "Unconditional free online sharing in times of emergency fully reflects the responsibility of state-owned cultural enterprises, but for a long time this free sharing, I am afraid that most publishers will not be able to bear.
”而在纸质书的出版和定价方面，出版社普遍仍处于掣肘状态。
Publishers generally remain constrained in publishing and pricing paper books.
肖延兵在接受百道网采访时提到，花城出版社的图书出版和生产销售都受到了疫情的影响。
Xiao Yanbing in the Baudao network interview mentioned that the book publishing and production and sales of Huacheng Press were affected by the epidemic.
在出版方面，由于多数印刷企业采用淡旺季用工调剂方式，疫情可能会影响他们的日常用工，印刷排期受到波及，纸张和印刷成本也可能增加不少。
In the area of publishing, the epidemic is likely to affect the day-to-day use of jobs in most printing companies, with the result that printing schedules will be affected and paper and printing costs may increase considerably.
在销售环节，九成以上的地面实体书店处于停业状态，网上销售也因物流不畅受到了很大打击，纸质书籍的销售在线上线下同时受阻。
In the sales link, more than 90% of the physical bookstore on the ground is in a state of closure, online sales have been hit by poor logistics, paper book sales online and offline at the same time blocked.
商务印书馆总经理于殿利则指出了书籍定价的特殊性以及在日前特殊状态下出版社的两难。
Yu Dianli, General Manager of Commercial Printing House, pointed out the particularity of book pricing and the dilemma of publishing house under the special situation.
他认为，其他类别商品可以在上架前根据成本状况灵活调整价格，而图书已经在先前的生产流程中确定价格并做出明确标识，虽成本增加，价格却无法随之调整，临时改价会引发读者质疑。
He argued that other categories of goods could adjust their prices flexibly according to cost conditions before they went on sale, whereas books had been priced and clearly marked in previous production processes, and while costs had increased, prices could not be adjusted accordingly, and ad hoc price changes could raise questions among readers.
2电商平台：库房压力与物流障碍“我想问，我刚在当当买的书，要不要退货？”“我刚刚买完，退货去退货去。
I want to ask you if I just bought a book in pawnbroker Would you like to return it I just bought it and returned it
”这是当当网员工确诊新冠肺炎的新闻爆出后社交媒体上出现的反应。
That was the reaction on social media after news broke that the internet worker had diagnosed pneumonia.
虽然当当客服试图耐心解释图书出库的无接触以及消毒过程，但依然有消费者表示不敢在当当买书了。
Although customers try to explain the lack of access to libraries and the sterilization process patiently, there are still consumers who say they are afraid to buy books in pawnshops.
与积极组织线上活动的出版社不同，电商本来应当在疫情当中占据优势。
Unlike publishing houses that actively organize online, the telecoms industry should have had an edge in the epidemic.
实际上，2003年的非典疫情催生了中国零售业的变革。
Indeed, the SARS epidemic in 2003 spawned a revolution in Chinese retailing.
刘强东曾提到中关村电脑卖场在非典疫情时集体关门，他由此开始严肃考虑做电商，最终走上了全面线上化的道路。
Liu Qiangdong mentioned that Zhongguancun computer store in the SARS epidemic when the collective shutdown, he began to seriously consider doing electricity business, finally embarked on a comprehensive line of the road.
非典一爆发，马云也觉察到，网上购物将成为消费者刚需，阿里巴巴有必要在当时已有的2B（面向企业客户）业务基础之上推出2C（面向普通消费者）网购平台。
As soon as SARS broke out, Ma also became aware that online shopping would become just what consumers wanted, and Alibaba needed to launch a 2C (for ordinary consumers) online purchasing platform on top of its then-existing 2B (business-oriented) business.
2003年5月10日，淘宝上线，很快即打败了在中国如日中天的美国互联网巨头eBay。
On May 10, 2003, Taobao went online and quickly defeated Internet giant eBay of the United States, which thrives in China.
按常理来说，疫情似乎本应刺激网上购物的发展，但这一次，中国的一些线上书店也难逃寒冬。
Normally, the outbreak would have been expected to spur online shopping, but this time, some online bookstores in China have also been caught in the cold.
当当工作人员称，目前推出100-50活动不是因为疫情期间书卖不出去，而是开学季的常规活动。
When workers say the 100-50 campaign is being launched, it's not because books can't be sold during the epidemic, but because it's a regular part of the school year.
当当称目前图书“销售一切正常”，但界面文化记者也发现，目前网购图书时效无法保证，比平时的送达速度慢很多，例如2月27日购买的图书预计一周以后才能送达，物流不畅的难题切实存在。
When Dang said the current book "sales are normal," but interface culture reporters also found that the current online book time is not guaranteed, more than normal delivery of the book, such as the February 27 purchase is not expected to arrive a week later, the logistics problem is real.
与当当相比，其他线上书店面对的情况要严峻得多。
Compared with Dangdang, other online bookstores face a much tougher situation.
如果你打开中国图书网，注意力一定会被网站头条位置“88元10本”的巨幅广告吸引，中图网甚至因这项活动登上微博热搜——6000种图书88元任选10本，涵盖文学、社科、历史、少儿、艺术等门类，但是库房复工后才能发货。
If you open a Chinese library, your attention will be attracted by the huge 88 yuan 10 ad on the front page of the Web site, which even boarded the Weibo Hot Search10 of 6,000 titles, including literature, social sciences, history, children and the arts, but can't be delivered until the warehouse is back on the job.
中图网官微曾在2月12日的微博中提及库房面对的巨大压力——“涿州库房还没复工，也没有开工的准确时间，但是租金还得正常交，所以我们想法自救。
"Zhuozhou storehouse has not been restarted, nor has the exact time to start work, but the rent has to be normal, so we tried to save ourselves.
”中图网总经理黄平在接受“北青艺评”采访时提到，“没这笔钱，我们的现金流会出问题，”这次成功的促销活动帮助中图网在春节前在支付完了员工工资和年终奖，并可以为节后经营预留一部分现金。
"Without the money, our cash flow would go awry," Huang Ping, general manager of the Central Picture Network, said in an interview with the North Qinghai Review. "This successful sales campaign helped Chinatown pay staff salaries and end-of-year bonuses before the Spring Festival holiday and set aside some cash for post-holiday operations.
中图网微博线上书店遇到的最大困难是大多数仓库未复工、无法发货，以及物流不畅问题。
The biggest difficulties encountered by the bookstore on the Middle Grid microblogging line are that most warehouses have not been restarted, that deliveries are not possible, and that logistics are poor.
在“北青艺评”的报道中，一位不具名的出版人士提到“在此次疫情中，越是大型网络书店，遇到的困难就越大“，“我们的一家重要客户，在全国网上销售，此外有十几家实体书店，可库房在湖北，因为从湖北发货到全国各地，价格比较便宜，这次全部沦陷。
In a report published by the North Qinghai Art Review, an anonymous publisher said: "In this epidemic, the bigger the online bookstore, the more difficult it is." "One of our important customers, which sells online throughout the country, has a dozen physical bookstores in Hubei, which are cheaper to ship from Hubei to different parts of the country.
他说还能继续运营，但库房关闭了，实在发不出货。
He said he could continue to operate, but the warehouse was closed and could not deliver.
我看他说着说着，都快哭了。
I could see he was about to cry as he spoke.
”3实体书店：存活不易，百般自救“从整个图书行业看，出版社损失较小，线上书店损失较大，实体书店损失最大。
From the book industry as a whole, publishing houses lose less, online bookstores lose more, and physical bookstores lose the most.
”黄平认为。
Huang Ping thought.
中小书店联盟“书萌”主持了一项2020年春节实体书店紧急调查，调查报告反映了中小型民营书店在当下疫情当中的情况，在全国353份有效问卷当中，86.97%的书店目前几乎没有收入来源，如果疫情继续，34.56%的书店只能维持一个月不到，甚至有的书店已经在进行结业的操作，另外有四成的书店称撑不到三个月。
The survey showed that 86.97% of the 353 valid questionnaires in the country currently had few sources of income. If the epidemic continued, 34.56% of the bookstores could last less than a month, while another 40% said they would last less than three months.
中小书店联盟“书萌”调查数据广东潮州的三更书店就是结业书店之一。
Small and medium-sized bookstore alliance "Shu Meng" survey data Guangdong Chaozhou Sanwen Bookstore is one of the final bookstores.
2017年10月，合伙人之一姚超凡在实体书店回暖的大环境下回到潮州开店，两年间尝试了书店与餐饮相结合的方式，勉强能够维持运营。
In October 2017, one of his partners, Yao Chao-fan, returned to Chaozhou to open a store in the warm physical bookstore.
他原以为今年将是书店复苏的一次生机，如今却不得不在公号里写下“三更失约”的告别信：“浮生着甚苦奔忙，盛席华筵终散场。
He thought this year would be a revival of the bookstore, but now he had to write a farewell letter "Three More Bereavement" in the official post: "A very busy life, the end of the feast.
”一些出版社的线上免费共享计划以及联合当当推出的五折封顶大促计划，南昌青苑书店创始人万国英都看到了，感到有些“心里堵得慌”。
Wan Guoying, founder of Qingyuan Bookstore in Nanchang, saw some of the publishers' plans for free online sharing and the 50% discount on capped plans launched by Upaang.
她一来担心“大家看到免费的东西太多了，就会觉得没有必要再去花钱了”，二来也隐隐预感，为了消化库存，整个书店行业的混战又会开始。
She worries that "everyone sees too much free and feels no need to spend any more," and has a vague foreboding that a melee in the bookstore industry is about to begin in order to digest inventory.
她理解这个时候每个企业都想要自保，获得现金流才能维护正常开支，不过从结果上看，整个市场可能会陷入折扣战红海。
She understands that at this point every company wants to protect itself and get cash flow to maintain normal spending, but in terms of results, the whole market could be in for a discount war on the Red Sea.
“读者肯定哪里便宜哪里走，但实体书店会受到不小的影响，”万国英对界面文化说。
"The reader is sure where to go cheap, but the physical bookstore will be affected," Wan said of the interface culture.
创立28年来，1月31日，青苑书店第一次在公众号发出求助的声音。
For the first time in the 28 years since its foundation, the Green Garden Bookstore issued a public call for help on January 31.
《我是青苑书店，请不要让我冻毙于风雪》一文发出后，200名读者在青苑书店充值了近10万元。
"I'm a bookstore in Green Garden. Please don't let me freeze to death." After the article was released, 200 readers got nearly $100,000 at the Green Garden Bookstore.
单向空间也在2月24日发起了众筹续命，其公号文章称，目前4家实体书店只有北京朝阳大悦城店开业，书店平均每天只能卖出15本书，其中一半还是同事自己买走的。
One-way space also launched a crowdfunding campaign on Feb. 24, reporting that only four physical bookstores are now open in Beijing's Chaoyang Grand Yue Shopping Mall, with bookstores selling an average of 15 books a day, half of which are bought by co-workers.
尽管已经尝试了线上平台储值优惠、在线直播、建群秒杀等一系列活动，但每次推广只能带来几百元的收入。
While a range of online platform store discounts, live webcasts, and group stoppages have been tried, each promotion generates only a few hundred dollars in revenue.
其电商平台因供应商未开工、物流受限等原因，销售情况也几乎腰斩。
Its electric business platform because the supplier did not start, logistics constraints and other reasons, sales almost halved.
青苑书店在微信公号发出求助信上海钟书总经理特别助理兼钟书阁副总黄翊苹告诉界面文化，钟书阁实体书店在疫情当中也受到了很大冲击，“2019年总共13家门店做销售，光是春节半个月就销售了500多万。
Qingyuan Bookstore in Weixin Office issued a letter of request for help Shanghai Zhongshu general manager special assistant and vice-president Huang Yiping told the interface culture, Zhong Shuguo physical bookstore in the epidemic also suffered a great impact, "2019 a total of 13 stores do sales, Spring Festival alone half a month sold more than 5 million.
今年春节期间只有3家店在营业，销售额不到10万。
Only three stores are open this Spring Festival, with sales of less than 100, 000.
”目前静安店已经开店，但只开放部分区域，每天客流量最多只有三四十位。
Quiet An has opened shops, but only parts of the city are open, with a maximum of 30 or 40 passengers a day.
此外，钟书阁也开始尝试直播带货。
In addition, Zhong Shuchu Pavilion also began to try to live delivery.
第一场直播有8000多人次观看，《张文宏教授支招防控新型冠状病毒》的新书直播在1小时内卖书150多本。
The first live broadcast was watched by more than 8,000 people, and Professor Zhang Wenhong offered to prevent and control the new coronavirus.
除了天猫和当当店，各个门店的客户群也会接受读者订书。
In addition to the sky cat and pawn shop, the customer base of each store will also accept the reader's book.
纵有丰富的自救举措，目前实体书店部分依旧亏损，但黄翊苹认为，钟书阁目前并没有“疫情再持续下去公司就会倒闭”的严重问题。
Although there are rich self-help measures, the physical bookstore is still part of the loss, but Huang Yupin believes that Zhong Shuguo is not "the continuation of the epidemic will continue the company will collapse."
因为钟书阁总公司上海钟书有自己的出版业务，并且以课外阅读类的学生读物为主，客人也主要是学生。
Since Zhongshu Ge Corporation Shanghai Zhongshu has its own publishing business, and the main reading class of students, mainly students.
这段时间小朋友虽然在家里，也依然需要买书，网店图书的销量相对较高。
This time although the children at home, but also still need to buy books, online store books are relatively high sales.
钟书阁直播但是非刚需线下零售实体要艰难得多。
It's much harder to live on the clock but not just off-line retail entities.
广州市扶光书店（时光里店）称，扶光书店品牌旗下书店都面临着客流锐减、库存积压、书店收入甚微且单一的现状，同时仍要支付每月供应商货款和租金（有部分店铺获得业主降租支持），以及不降薪、不裁员的全体人工薪酬，与此同时，书店对疫情期间消费者心理变化和消费习惯改变以及对未来纸质书阅读弱需求的担忧也逐渐增长。
Fuguang Bookstore (Time Store) in Guangzhou said its bookstores are facing a sharp drop in traffic, a backlog of inventory, little revenue and a single status quo, while still paying monthly suppliers and rents (with some stores receiving owner-rent reduction support) and no-pay, no-layoffs.
扶光书店说，希望出版供应商能短期调整货款账期及放宽退货比例，并予以优惠措施。
Fuguang Bookstore said that the hope of publishing suppliers to adjust the short-term payment period and relax the proportion of returned goods, and preferential measures.
3尾声：书店的未来“这段时间大家都躲在家里没有办法出门，我相信疫情真的结束之后，书店也会有一波反弹，因为毕竟大家闷久了，喜欢看书的人就是喜欢看书，有的人的休闲活动可能是吃饭、去玩，可能有些人就是想去书店走一下，我想会有很多客人愿意回来的。
I believe there will be a bounce back in the bookstore after all, because after all, people like to read books, others like to eat and play in the leisure activities, maybe some people just want to go to the bookstore, I think a lot of guests will like to come back.
”黄翊苹对疫情结束后的实体书店整体持乐观态度。
"Huang Yiping after the outbreak of the physical bookstore as a whole optimistic attitude.
她说，图书虽然不能说是刚需，但是很多人已经把去书店看书看作是生活当中的一种精神寄托了。
Books aren't exactly what they need, she says, but many people already see reading in a bookstore as a sort of spiritual sustenance.
万国英则认为，此次疫情的影响还有1到2个月，书店恢复还需要3个月，要半年时间才能够看到整个行业的变化。
Wan believes the impact of the epidemic is one to two months away, the bookshop will take another three months to recover, it will take half a year to see the industry change.
在整个图书行业，只有像教辅这样的刚需或者特别热门的书才会成为消费重心。
In the book industry as a whole, only just-needed or especially hot books like the tutor will be the center of gravity.
“人们满足了基本需求以后才会想要精神层面的需求。
"People don't want spiritual needs until they have met their basic needs.
在这半年里，实体书店该倒的就会倒掉，能够生存下来的实体书店也很危险。
In this half year, the physical bookstore should fall down, can survive the physical bookstore is also dangerous.
减免房租、补贴社保等措施可能可以解决两三个月的问题，但‘救急不能救贫’。
Rent relief, subsidized social security measures may solve problems for two or three months, but 'emergency relief cannot help the poor'.
”实体书店的劣势地位非一日之寒，此次疫情只不过直接撕开了书店行业的旧伤。
The physical bookstore is not in a bad position, this time simply tore open the bookstore industry's old wounds.
万国英在接受界面文化采访时提到，在疫情之前，电商已经把实体书店打得体无完肤了。
In an interview with Interface Culture, Wan Guoying said that before the outbreak, the physical bookstore has been beaten up by electricity merchants.
“折扣战从2018年打到现在。
"The discount war has been going on since 2018.
去年更加恶劣，基本每个月电商都有活动，2019年实体书店的数据已经很难看了。
Last year was even worse, with almost every month of e-commerce activity, and in 2019 the physical bookstore data was ugly.
”而在实体书店行业当中，国家补助、资本补助都已经扭曲了行业的生存常态，导致书店行业商业模式暧昧不明。
In the physical bookstore industry, state subsidies and capital subsidies have distorted the industry's normal existence, leading to an ambiguous business model for the bookstore industry.
这也正是公众号“做书”的文章对单向空间提出的批评之一：当家产品是单向历，撬动文化界的是单读杂志、单向街书店文学奖，这样一来，还不如干脆脱去“沉重肉身”。
This is one of the criticisms levelled at one-way space in the public-domain "book-making" article: when the product is a one-way street, the culture is prized by a single-read magazine and a one-way street bookstore, so it's better to get rid of the "heavy body" altogether.
2月18日青苑书店 图片源自@青苑书店微博“一家书店在宫殿般的场所里能够自负盈亏吗？不算投资的话，这样的标配也让服务成本增加。
February 18 Bookstore picture from @ Qingyuan Bookstore Weibo "a bookstore in a palace-like location can be self-financing? If not investment, such a standard also increases the cost of services.
书的盈利、咖啡、文创都不能转化为书店的造血功能，但如果完全靠补贴来做，就不能够真正叫做商业行为。
The book's profitability, coffee, and creativity cannot be translated into a bookstore's hematopoietic function, but if it is done entirely through subsidies, it cannot really be called business behavior.
”万国英认为，政府的政策和资金支持是有利于书店发展的。
Mr Wan believes the government's policy and financial support is conducive to the development of bookstores.
但是书店行业应该有一个思考，因为现在很多人把书作为附属和装饰，让书店成为打卡、拍照、游览的地方。
But the bookstore industry should have a thought, because nowadays many people use books as accessories and decorations, making bookstores places to card, photograph and visit.
“北大不是因为招收的学生很多，而是因为培养出了很多人才，才是好学校。
"Beijing University is not because of the large number of students enrolled, but because of the training of many talents, is a good school.
书店也是这样，能够给市民带来什么引导，培养多少读书种子，才是书店真正存在的意义。
Bookstore is the same, can bring what guidance to the public, how many reading seeds, is the real existence of the bookstore significance.
”如果说万国英担心的是实体书店既存的老问题，书萌创始人孙谦则看到了一种新出路。
"If Wanguo-ying was worried about the old problems in the physical bookstore, Sun Meng, the founder of the book, saw a new way out.
在接受《中国新闻出版广电报》采访时，孙谦称，经历这次疫情，此前在书店业流行的“书店+”“图书+”理念受到了巨大挑战。
In an interview with China Press and Publication Radio and Telegraph newspaper, Sun said the concept of "bookstore +" and "book +", which had become popular in bookstores, had been challenged by the epidemic.
实体书店如何将互联网思维贯穿于运营全程，在线上线下进行符合实体书店实际的融合，将成为广大实体书店最为关切并且实践的方向。
It will be the most concerned and practical direction for the real bookstore how to integrate the Internet thinking through the whole process of operation, online and offline real bookstore.
之后孙谦还发表了一篇文章《实体书店如何盈利——未来篇》，称未来实体书店的盈利主要依靠三个部分：升级产品线，从原来的只卖图书、文创、咖啡这些有形产品拓展到课程、知识、服务等无形产品上；要进行升级服务，从原来的只提供现有产品的批发零售服务到提供社交和情感的服务；空间上要进行线下到线上的升级，积累对自己有信任感的客户，形成自己的“私域流量”。
Sun Qian also published an article on "How to make a profit in a physical bookstore - The Future," saying that the future of the physical bookstore depends on three main parts: upgrading the product line from selling only books, literature, coffee tangible products to courses, knowledge, services and other intangible products; and upgrading services, from wholesale and retail services to social and emotional services.
“实体书店未来的战场，将不再只是线下。
"The battlefield of the physical bookstore in the future will no longer be just offline.
未来，产品、服务、空间的全面转线上，是大家的新课题。
In the future, products, services, space on the overall line, is everyone's new subject.
”青苑书店也进行了线上活动，在“书店燃灯计划”当中，书店卖出了不到十本书，从销售的角度上说收益不是很大。
The online campaign is also under way at the Green Garden Bookstore, where fewer than 10 books have been sold as part of the "Bookstore Lighting Project," which is not very profitable in terms of sales.
但是万国英看到，做线上活动本身是有意义的，能够在疫情期让在家宅了一个月的书友得到一些新的思考。
But Wanguo Ying saw that doing on-line activities itself is meaningful, in the epidemic period so that a month in the home of friends to get some new thinking.
她说，未来也许会带来线上线下的新组合。
The future may bring new combinations offline, she said.
2月20日，青苑书店开门营业，第一天客人不到二十人，第二天下雨，客人更少了。
On February 20th, the bookstore of Qingyuan opened for business. On the first day, there were less than 20 guests.
不过万国英依然抱有希望，熟客告诉她，希望疫情早日结束，再和读者们聚到一起。
However, the British still hope, the familiar told her, hope that the epidemic will end soon, and the readers together.
本文为独家原创内容，采写：潘文捷，编辑：黄月，未经界面文化（ID：Booksandfun）授权不得转载。
This article is original and exclusive content, pick up: Pan Wenjie, editor: Yellow Moon, no interface culture (ID: Booksandfun) authorization can not be reproduced.
未经授权谢绝转载欢迎转发至朋友圈。
Unauthorized reprint of the welcome to forward to friends.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情下的书店深冬：图书行业的惊蛰何时来临？。
Deep Winter in an Epidemic Bookstore: When Is the Book Industry Stung?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "文学";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "界面文化";。
Var nickname = & quot; interface culture & quot;;
var msg_title = "疫情下的书店深冬：图书行业的惊蛰何时来临？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; When did the book industry sting?
var msg_desc = "不仅是书店，整个图书行业各个环节都受到了疫情波及。
var msg _ desc = & quot; not only the bookstore, but the entire book industry has been affected by the epidemic.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '走出孤岛 保卫书店丨坚持了 15 年的单向求众筹续命',。
& nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '单向空间OWSPACE',。
subject _ name: & apos; one-way space OWSPACE & apos;;.
title: '只靠情怀充值能拯救单向空间吗？',。
& # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '做書',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & apos; & quot; & apos;.
title: '只靠情怀充值能拯救单向空间吗？',。
& # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '做書',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & apos; & quot; & apos;.
title: '当骄傲的许知远也开始求救：瘟疫时期的书店“最要紧是活下来”',。
When proud Xu Zhiyuan also began calling for help: "What matters is to survive" and & apos; at plague-era bookstores.
subject_name: '北青艺评',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '三更书店结业通知',。
Rita & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
subject_name: '三更书店',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '我是青苑书店，请不要让我冻毙于风雪丨特别策划',。
I am at Castle Peak Bookstore. Please don't let me freeze to death.
subject_name: '南昌市青苑书店',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="界面文化";。
Var title = & quot; interface culture & quot;;
