凌晨4点的武汉，900万人的害怕和勇敢。
Wuhan at 4 a.m., 9 million people are afraid and brave.
世相君。
The King of Sages.
新世相                      。
The New World.
新世相。
The New World.
每天最后一分钟的人生学校，我们终将改变潮水的方向。
Every day the last minute of life school, we will eventually change the direction of the tide.
。
.
-这是新世相的第1201篇文章-Sayings:两周前，我曾问：你见过凌晨四点的武汉吗，是什么样？之后，我们收到了接近2000个人的讲述，包括 150多个在武汉的人。
-1201 - Sayings: Two weeks ago, I asked: Did you see Wuhan at 4 a. m. and what was it? After that, we received accounts from nearly 2,000 people, including more than 150 people in Wuhan.
他们的故事，构成了今天这条推送的两部分：1、一部 9分钟的纪实短片2、12个武汉从深夜到凌晨的故事凌晨四点，多年以前的这个时间，科比在洛杉矶街头看着光明一点点到来。
Their stories make up the two parts of today's push: 1. A 9-minute documentary film, 12 Wuhan late-night-to-early-morning stories, Kobe Bryant came in the streets of Los Angeles at this time many years ago.
受他的启发，过去几年里，我们用短片和真实故事的方式记录了凌晨四点的北京、上海、重庆。
Inspired by him, over the past few years, we have recorded four in the morning in Beijing, Shanghai and Chongqing in the form of short films and real-life stories.
而这次，在这个特殊的时期，我们记录下了从夜里 9 点到凌晨 4 点的武汉。
This time, at this particular time, we recorded Wuhan from 9pm to 4am.
有残酷，有温柔——一个男孩给刚认识的婴儿当了志愿奶爸；一位年轻护士送走了抢救失败的老人；一位孕妇在被隔离的产房顺利生下了女儿；一只流浪猫在小区封禁前被人领回家了……你会在短片《凌晨四点的武汉》里看到他们的身影，在后面的文章里读到他们的故事。
There is cruelty and tenderness - a boy volunteers for a baby he knows; a young nurse delivers a failed old man; a pregnant woman gives birth to a daughter in a secluded maternity ward; a stray cat is taken home before the cell is banned... you'll see them in the short film Wuhan at 4 a.m. and read their stories in later articles.
和往常不一样的是，这次短片中大部分的内容，是几十个在武汉的普通人，在简单的指导下自拍上传给我们的。
As usual, most of the short film is dozens of ordinary people in Wuhan, under the simple guidance of the self-film handed down to us.
一些画面可能有点模糊、摇晃，却十分真实——Play↑点击观看↑他们都是很普通的人，会害怕，会想念父母、女儿、男朋友，想念热干面，也会觉得口罩勒得脸好疼……为了早日从疫情手里赢回普通的生活，通宵达旦地努力着——“我们不睡，这座城就不会输。
Some pictures may be a little fuzzy, shake, but very real - they are very ordinary people, will miss parents, daughters, boyfriends, miss hot and dry noodles, will feel very painful facial strangulation... To win back ordinary life from the epidemic, overnight efforts - "We do not sleep, this city will not lose.
”凌晨四点的武汉口述：新世相在武汉的读者和朋友们“我们站得远远的，给她唱了生日歌”我们酒店里住了两个援鄂的医疗队。
Wuhan Oral at 4 a.m.: Readers and friends of the New World in Wuhan "We stand far away and sing her a birthday song."
有一个广西来的医生叫温汉春，从登记的身份证号码发现她那天过生日，我们特地做了蛋糕和长寿面。
There is a doctor from Guangxi named Wenhanchun, from the number of her registered identity card found her birthday, we specially made cake and long-lived noodles.
她是春天在武汉出生的，所以起了这个名字。
She was born in Wuhan in spring, so she got the name.
我们给她写了句祝福：“汉无恙，春归来”。
We gave her a blessing: "Han is all right, spring back."
唱生日歌时我们都站得远远的，但我们的心很近。
We all stood away when we sang the birthday song, but our hearts were very close.
疫情结束后的愿望：“我在医院外巡逻，守护住院的妻子”情人节前夕我拍一个vlog，遇到一对夫妇让我特别感动——丈夫叫陈升浩，37 岁，是江岸区分局大智派出所的警察。
I patrolled outside the hospital to guard my wife in hospital. "On Valentine's Day, I filmed a vlog and was particularly moved to meet a couple whose husband was Chen Shenghao, 37, a police officer at Tai Chi Police Station.
他的妻子刘昌璇是武汉中心医院的医生，感染了肺炎，1 月 22 开始住院治疗。
His wife, Liu Changxuan, a doctor at Wuhan Central Hospital, contracted pneumonia and was hospitalized on January 22.
这之后陈升浩主动报名了武汉中心医院附近的值守工作，他说：“我每次巡逻从那边走的时候，都会想到我在守护我老婆。
After that, Chen took the initiative to sign up for duty near Wuhan Central Hospital, saying: "Every time I go out there on patrol, I think I'm guarding my wife.
”这是晚上 9 点半，陈升浩和在病床上插着管的老婆视频：——“你今天感觉怎么样？你在那边加油，然后早点回来嘛。
It was 9: 30 p.m. Chen and his wife, who had tubes in their beds. "How are you feeling today? You cheer up over there and come back early.
”——“我康复了之后，我不会在家里待着，我要马上去前线工作的。
'When I am well, I shall not stay at home; I shall go to the front at once.
”——“那以前你说好要推我晒太阳，说话要算数哦。
'Then you promised to push me into the sun, and you'll keep your word.
”最近的好消息是，陈升浩的老婆 2 月 16 日已经出院了，身体状态还不错。
The latest good news is that Chen's wife was released from the hospital on February 16 and is in good health.
疫情结束后的愿望：“下班回家想抱抱女儿，可她睡着了”我们每天在机场保障航班，组织人员装车转运物资和行李，特殊时期 24 小时待命。
The end of the epidemic: "Home from work want to embrace her daughter, but she fell asleep." We guarantee flights at the airport every day, organize personnel loading transit materials and luggage, special 24-hour standby.
连续工作 8 天后，晚上 11 点半回家，一推门进屋，发现女儿还撑着没睡，在等我。
After eight days of continuous work, I came home at 11: 30 p.m., pushed the door in and found my daughter was still awake, waiting for me.
本来准备抱一下她的，后来一想，算了。
I was gonna give her a hug, And then I thought, forget it.
现在是特殊情况。
This is a special case.
本来想洗了澡换了衣服之后再抱她，但洗完出来她已经睡着了。
She wanted to take a shower and change her clothes before holding her, but she fell asleep after washing it out.
这是我女儿画的，病毒下面粘了弹簧，病毒一出来，她就用锤子使劲儿捶。
This is my daughter's drawing. There's a spring under the virus. When the virus comes out, she punches it with a hammer.
疫情结束后的愿望：“亲历汶川地震的陌生人，给我发了条微信”在家隔离这几天，每晚我都在快手上直播教大家画画，画完跟大家聊聊天。
The end of the epidemic: "Wenchuan experience of the stranger, sent me a message" Isolation at home these days, every night I live in the hands of painting, painting and chat with everyone.
印象最深的是有个四川都江堰的朋友说，他自己在家做火锅，想寄给我，给我发了很多照片。
What impressed me most was a friend of Dujiangyan in Sichuan who said he made hotpot at home and wanted to send me a lot of photos.
我说现在快递没法进来了，他还是很坚持，又想从我家附近网购东西给我。
I said courier can not come in now, he still very insistent, want to buy things from my home near the net to me.
他说：“地震的时候，全国都在帮我们啊。
"The whole country was helping us in the earthquake," he said.
”疫情结束后的愿望：“我给 11 个月大的宝宝当志愿奶爸”这个 11 个月大的小女孩叫小格格。
Post-epidemic wishes: "I volunteer for my 11-month-old baby," an 11-month-old girl called Little Gerge.
她家好几口人都确诊了，她住院观察，孩子爸一个人照顾不过来。
Several members of her family were diagnosed, and she was hospitalized to observe that the father could not care for her alone.
我经常抱着哄着放歌给她听。
I often sang songs to her with my arms full.
她喜欢公主抱，还要到处晃悠，不喜欢一动不动，坐着会哭，也不能放床上，就爱在你怀里仰着头东看看西摸摸。
She likes to hold the princess, she also wanders around, she doesn't like to move, she can't cry, she can't put her bed, she loves to look up and feel in your arms.
有天夜里我抱着哄她睡觉，哄着哄着我俩都睡了。
One night I hugged her to sleep and coaxed both of us to sleep.
这张照片是她爸爸拍的。
This picture was taken by her father.
在病房里要戴3层口罩，穿防护服，手套10分钟换一次疫情结束后的愿望：“全力抢救也没救回来，很无力”有天凌晨，一个七十多岁的爹爹（爷爷）突然病情恶化，立马推倒抢救室除颤，胸外按压等等，最后还是没救回来。
Wearing a 3-storey mask, protective clothing, gloves 10 minutes after the end of the epidemic: "All efforts have not been rescued, very powerless" One morning, a father (grandfather) in his 70s suddenly deteriorated, immediately pulled down rescue room fibrillation, chest compressions, and so on, but was not rescued.
那一刻，有深深的无力感。
At that moment, there is a deep sense of powerlessness.
为了让他走得体面一点，我和同事花了一个小时给他整理仪容，擦拭身体、消毒……老人的儿子收好遗物，没说话，也没哭，但我忘不了他走的时候那微微驼下的背影。
To make him walk decently, my colleague and I spent an hour grooming, wiping and disinfecting him... The old man's son collected his belongings and did not speak or cry, but I couldn't forget his slightly hunched back when he left.
疫情结束后的愿望：“寒潮来的晚上，我收养了第 7 只猫”家附近有只粘人的小野猫，叫小花，我经常去喂它。
The end of the epidemic: "Cold tide came the night, I adopted the seventh cat" There is a small sticky cat, called Flower, near the house, I often feed it.
2 月 15 日晚上寒潮来了，风雨特别大，我特别担心，凌晨 3 点左右下去找它。
February 15 evening the cold tide came, the wind and rain is particularly strong, I am particularly worried, around 3 a.m. to find it.
它知道我来，马上就蹦出来了。
He knew I was coming, and he popped out.
其实我当时家里已经收养了 6 只猫。
In fact, I had adopted six cats in my family.
但因为武汉管得越来越严，不让出去，我放心不下，就把它也收养了。
But because Wuhan is more and more strict, not to go out, I worry about it, it was also adopted.
武汉下雪那天，小花在雪里打滚，可开心了。
Wuhan snow day, small flowers in the snow rolling, can be happy.
疫情结束后的愿望：   “跟兄弟们蹲在工地宿舍吃泡面”从雷神山医院到鄂州雷山医院，我一直在队里负责团队沟通和协调。
After the outbreak of the desire: "with the brothers squatting in the construction site dormitory bubble noodle" from Lei Shenshan Hospital to Huizhou Lei Shan Hospital, I have been in charge of the team communication and coordination.
有天凌晨加班加点抢建完 ICU 病区，宿舍没通电也没开水，我们从门卫那里接了电，借了开水壶，每人一桶泡面，又是宵夜又是早餐。
One day in the early hours of the morning after rush construction of the ICU sick area, dormitory no electricity or boiling water, we received electricity from the guard, borrowed a kettle, everyone a bucket of noodles, is a night and breakfast.
这张是在雷神山工地的一位大叔，拿到工资挺高兴的，他说他要立马转回去给家里，让家人去买菜。
This is the construction site in Lei Shenshan, a uncle, very happy to get a salary, he said he would immediately back home, let the family to buy vegetables.
昨天凌晨三点，医院开始进病人了，我们的团队穿防护服在里面继续调试设备。
At 3 a.m. yesterday, the hospital began to enter the patients, and our team continued to adjust the equipment in protective clothing.
我觉得，他们和医生护士一样高尚。
I think they're as noble as doctors and nurses.
疫情结束后的愿望：“在吊车上待了 5 天 5 夜，我也动摇过”大年三十在家看春晚时接到的电话，说火神山那边开吊车缺人。
The end of the epidemic: "I spent five days and five nights on the crane, I also shake." Spring Festival Gala at home received a call, said the other side of the fire god crane missing people.
当时老婆一个劲儿地叫我别去，我还是去了。
My wife kept on telling me not to go, so I went anyway.
身为武汉人怎么能在此刻怂！5 天 5 夜没下车，累了就在车上睡会儿。
Robbie, how can I be a Wuhan person at the moment? I haven't lost my car for 5 days and nights.
每天都很崩溃。
It breaks down every day.
唯一开心的事是，和工友吃槟榔喝红牛。
The only happy thing is to eat betel nut and drink red bull with fellow workers.
‍  有天吃了晚饭，老婆打电话给我说：“你别建好了医院自己住！”其实进病人之后我动摇过，但还是接着干了 3 天。
Zen ate supper one day, his wife called me and said: "You don't build a hospital to live in!" In fact, I moved into the patient, but continued to work for three days.
看到病人有地方住很有成就感，这么多天的苦没白吃。
Seeing the patient has a place to live has a sense of achievement, so many days of suffering has not been wasted.
疫情结束后的愿望：   “情人节晚上，我坐在货车上收到了玫瑰花”前几天晚上接了另外两个志愿，去帮忙搬运外地捐赠的一批苹果。
After the outbreak: "Valentine's night, I sat on the truck received roses" received two other volunteers the other night to help carry a batch of donated apples.
一般物资都是几吨往上走的，搬完就凌晨 3 点了。
General goods are a few tons of upward, moving after 3: 00 a.m.
那天是情人节，有个男生车上剩了几枝给医护人员准备的玫瑰花。
It was Valentine's Day and a boy had a few roses left in his car for the paramedics.
拿出来一起拍照了，还挺甜的。
I took a picture together. It was sweet.
疫情结束后的愿望：“穿上四层防护服不到 10分钟，我冒冷汗了”从重庆到武汉的第一天，凌晨 4 点去医院上班。
After the epidemic: "Wear four layers of protective clothing in less than 10 minutes, I braved the cold sweat" from Chongqing to Wuhan on the first day, at 4 a.m. to work in the hospital.
大家戴着口罩和防护帽，没有一个人讲话，氛围凝重。
Everyone wore masks and helmets, none spoke, and the atmosphere was solemn.
气温大概只有 4℃，市区里空空荡荡，寂静无声。
The temperature was only about 4 ℃, and the city was empty and silent.
看到街边的巨幅电子屏上面写着：“武汉加油”，心里突然有了股劲儿。
See the street side of the huge electronic screen above the words: "Wuhan refueling," the heart suddenly had the strength.
到了武汉大学人民医院，我们在清洁区的通道里换防护服，洗手衣+防护服+隔离衣+自己的衣服，一共四层。
At Wuhan University People's Hospital, we changed the protective clothing in the passage of the cleaning area, the hand-washing clothes + the protective clothing + the isolation clothing + own clothes, altogether four layers.
再戴上两个口罩和一个护目镜。
Put on two more masks and a pair of goggles.
穿戴好后，不到 10 分钟，我就开始冒冷汗、心慌。
Less than 10 minutes after I was dressed, I began to sweat and panic.
于是赶紧脱掉，让自己深呼吸几口空气，才慢慢觉得恢复了。
So hurriedly take off, let oneself take a few deep breath of air, just slowly feel recovered.
“必须克服心理压力”，我在心底这样告诉自己。
"Stress must be overcome," I told myself in my heart.
然后鼓起勇气重新穿戴好，开始了今天的工作。
Then pluck up the courage to get dressed again and get to work today.
疫情结束后的愿望：“女儿出生时医生跟我说：别怕，母女平安”     这个春天最开心的事，就是我的女儿在 2 月 20 号平安出生了。
After the outbreak: "When my daughter was born, the doctor told me," Don't be afraid, mother and daughter are safe. "The happiest thing this spring was the birth of my daughter safely on February 20th.
陪产时医生让我拿毛巾和小孩衣服，我急急忙忙的，慌手慌脚。
The doctor asked me to get towels and children's clothes while I was giving birth. I was in a hurry.
医生说你别怕，母女俩都平安，你别倒下了。
The doctor says don't be afraid, mother and daughter are safe, don't fall down.
我有点懵，一时间做爸爸了，感觉好像自己还是个孩子。
I am a little stunned, a father for a while, feel like a child.
老家的父母过不来武汉，我一个人照顾母女俩，凌晨四点在给她换尿不湿、兑奶粉。
Home parents can not pass Wuhan, I took care of mother and daughter alone, at 4 a.m. in her urine, mixed milk powder.
我们给女儿起名字尹楚宁，“楚”代表湖北，“宁”代表平安、安宁。
We named our daughter Yin Chunning, "Chu" for Hubei, "Ning" for peace and tranquility.
希望她的出生能够给湖北、给武汉带来平安。
I hope her birth will bring peace to Hubei and Wuhan.
疫情结束后的愿望：【写在最后】凌晨四点是这样的一个时刻：黑暗和光明交界，逝去和新生交界，属于夜晚的惶恐和属于清晨的振奋交界。
The end of the epidemic: At four o'clock in the morning there is a moment when darkness meets light, passing away at the junction of the new, the terror of the night and the thrill of the morning.
这一个多月里，也许你也在某个深夜或凌晨因为工作、因为生活、因为照顾身边的人而醒着。
For more than a month, you may be awake late one night or early in the morning for work, for life, for taking care of the people around you.
希望这些人的故事能陪你一起，等到太阳升起来。
I hope the stories of these people will accompany you until the sun rises.
。
.
←左右滑动查看更多图片→最后，还想感谢人民日报客户端、快手和我们一起推出这部短片。
stitch [5leiFEn] Finally, I would like to thank the client of People's Daily, the express hand, for launching this short film with us.
疫情中，有很多在武汉的人，都在用文字、图片和视频的方式记录自己的工作和生活。
During the outbreak, many people in Wuhan are using words, pictures and video to record their work and life.
我们从这些故事里看到了聚光灯之外普通人的付出，更看到了 900 万人在这场战役中的坚持。
From these stories we see the ordinary people giving out of the spotlight, but also the persistence of 9 million people in this battle.
这是我们和人民日报客户端、快手联合推出这部纪录片的最大初衷。
This is our and people's daily client, quick hand joint release this documentary's biggest original intention.
我们也感谢每一个为这部片子提供了帮助的普通人。
We also thank everyone who helped out with this film.
除了在武汉本地参与拍摄的 5 个团队，还有 45 个普通人在简单的拍摄指导下，自拍上传了视频给我们，很不容易。
In addition to the five teams involved in the local shooting in Wuhan, 45 ordinary people, under the simple guidance of filming, uploaded video to us, it is not easy.
谢谢他们。
Thank you.
撰稿：Cassie采写：罗梦倩樊悦书 牛晓宇张宁宁主编：李妙多 晚祷时刻：“等风雨经过，等我们相见”晚安，武汉早安，每一个等天明的人↓↓↓。
Writing: Cassie Cassie Fan Xiaoyu Zhang Ning, Editor-in-Chief: Li Miaodo Evening Pray Moment: "Let the wind and rain pass by, wait for us to meet" Good night, Wuhan, Wee Di Di Di Di Di.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
凌晨4点的武汉，900万人的害怕和勇敢。
Wuhan at 4 a.m., 9 million people are afraid and brave.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "情感";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "新世相";。
Var nickname = & quot; New World & quot;;
var msg_title = "凌晨4点的武汉，900万人的害怕和勇敢";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at 4 a.m. in Wuhan.
var msg_desc = "一部纪实短片，12 个武汉从深夜到凌晨的故事。
var msg _ desc = & quot; a documentary film with 12 stories from late night to early morning in Wuhan.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="新世相";。
Var title = & quot; New World & quot;;
