疫区夹缝：那些非新冠肺炎患者的命运。
Fate of patients with non-Newly crowned Pneumonia.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
非肺炎患者，是一个疫情出现前不曾有过的词语。
Non-pneumonia is a term that did not exist before the outbreak.
新冠病毒重塑了经济、公共空间以及人们的日常生活，像涟漪一般扩散，将原本看似在外围的人收纳进被影响的范围。
By reshaping the economy, the public space, and people's daily lives, the new crown virus ripples out, absorbing those who appear to be on the periphery.
交通封锁，物流不畅，医院被征用，医生被调走，种种问题出现，波及到新冠肺炎患者以外的其他人群。
Traffic blockades, poor logistics, the expropriation of hospitals, the removal of doctors and problems affecting people other than those suffering from pneumonia in the New Crown.
艾滋感染者，抑郁症患者，孕妇，癌症病人，肾透析者.......他们如此不同，谁也不会想到，他们会被归拢为一类。
AIDS patients, depression patients, pregnant women, cancer patients, kidney dialysis patients... they are so different that no one would expect them to be grouped together.
文｜谢梦遥采访｜谢梦遥、王雨娟编辑｜金石摄影｜尹夕远突如其来要么成功，要么「在手术台上下不来」。
+ yeg + yeg + yeg + yeg + yeg Yun Yuan has been successful, or "can not get off the operating table."
回忆起1月13日那场危险性极高的脊柱减压手术时，律律小心翼翼地避开使用「死」字。
Recalling the highly risky spinal decompression operation on January 13, the firm carefully avoided using the word "death."
妻子严丽罹患的是恶性嗜铬细胞瘤——这是一种病因不明、肿瘤起始位置在腹膜外的疾病。
His wife, Yan Li, suffers from a malignant pheochromocytoma, an unexplained disease in which the tumor begins outside the peritoneum.
当时，严丽的肿瘤已经压迫到了脊柱神经，若不处理，她的下肢可能瘫痪。
At the time, Yan Li's tumour was already pressing down on her spinal nerve, and if left untreated, her lower limbs could be paralyzed.
律律知道妻子是个极为要强的人，他瞒着她做了那个激进的决定，暂缓放疗，先通过一个外科手术，切开脊柱，将椎管里的肿瘤与神经剥离，避免瘫痪发生。
Knowing that his wife was a very strong person, he made the radical decision not to expose her to radiotherapy, first through a surgical operation to cut the spine, remove the tumour from the spinal canal and prevent paralysis.
好在手术是成功的。
Fortunately, the operation was successful.
对于这对年纪刚刚过30岁的武汉夫妻来说，过去的半年有如一生一般漫长。
The past six months have been as long as life for the Wuhan couple, who are only 30 years old.
去年7月底，严丽的腹部发现了一个8厘米大的肿瘤，那时她怀孕3个月。
At the end of July, Yan Li found an 8-centimeter tumor in her abdomen when she was three months pregnant.
父母都建议终止妊娠，严丽珍惜这个孩子，坚持要生下来。
Both parents suggested that the pregnancy be terminated, Yan Li cherished the child and insisted on being born.
8月中旬手术完成，肿瘤被切除了，但到了11月，严丽癌细胞发生骨转移，扩散到肋骨、肩膀、肝脏等全身各处，夫妻俩相信，那是怀孕的代价，任何治疗都进行不了，「把它给催化了」。
The surgery was completed in mid-August and the tumor was removed, but by November, Yan Li's cancer cells had metastasized and spread all over her ribs, shoulders and liver. The husband and wife believed that it was the price of pregnancy and that no treatment could be done.
到了12月中实在没有办法，严丽提前剖宫产。
By the middle of December there was no way out, Yan Li gave birth early.
万幸，孩子平安。
Luckily, the baby is safe.
按照原来的时间表，放疗将在年后进行。
According to the original schedule, radiotherapy will take place after one year.
严丽无法行动，一直住在武汉协和医院肿瘤中心。
Yan Li is unable to move and has been living in Wuhan Concord Hospital Oncology Center.
疫情突如其来。
The outbreak was sudden.
放疗中心的开放一拖再拖。
The opening of radiotherapy centres has been delayed.
直到2月5日才终于开门，却因为接待的头几个病人有人确诊肺炎，中心再次关闭，进行全面消毒。
It did not finally open until 5 February, when it was again closed for full disinfection because the first patients were diagnosed with pneumonia.
在这期间，律律已经收到消息，一些武汉的医院被征收为新型肺炎的定点收治医院，不再接待其他病人。
In the meantime, the law has received word that some Wuhan hospitals have been expropriated as designated hospitals for the new pneumonia and no longer serve other patients.
他感到庆幸，妻子所在的不是那些综合型医院，「它只是单纯的一个肿瘤医院。
He was grateful that his wife was not in a general hospital, "it was just a oncology hospital."
」2月9日，放疗中心重新开放，妻子接受放疗，「好不容易盼到了可以开始尝试着对肿瘤进行控制了。
On February 9, the radiotherapy centre was reopened and the wife received radiotherapy. "It was hard to hope to start trying to control the tumor.
」定点收治医院的名单在不断扩大。
The list of designated hospitals continues to expand.
妻子才做了2次放疗，2月13日，肿瘤中心也被征用了。
The wife had just had two radiotherapy sessions and, on 13 February, the oncology centre had also been requisitioned.
一切发生得似乎太快了。
It all seems to be happening too fast.
肿瘤中心有3栋楼，头一天大家还在微信群里传着这个消息。
There were three buildings in the oncology center, and the news was still being relayed through the microphone group the first day.
问医生，没有得到准确答复。
Ask the doctor for an accurate answer.
第二天，所有的留院病人全部被集中一栋楼里，「突然一下变得特别拥挤，特别吵」。
The next day, all the hospitalized patients were gathered in a single building, "suddenly became very crowded, particularly noisy."
放疗中心位于专门收治发热病人的那座楼的地下负一层。
The radiotherapy centre is located on the ground floor of the building dedicated to treating febrile patients.
律律隐隐抱着希望，是否有机会开一条绿色通道，让肿瘤病人继续治疗。
The law dimly hopes that there will be a chance to open a green passage for cancer patients to continue treatment.
第三天，放疗中心关闭了。
On the third day, the radiotherapy centre was closed.
「可能医院的领导也觉得，疫区的楼底下做放疗，必然是要经过疫区的。
"Perhaps the hospital leadership also felt that the floor of the epidemic area to do radiotherapy, is bound to go through the epidemic area.
这种风险他也不能去承担，所以没有别的办法，只有把放疗中心给关闭了。
He could not bear the risk, so there was no alternative but to shut down the radiotherapy centre.
」律律想。
"thought the law.
一夜之间，之前在病房间进进出出、随处可见的医生们突然消失了。
Overnight, the doctors who had been walking in and out of the sick room suddenly disappeared.
一层有三四十间病房，律律只看到一个医生，在忙着给病人办理出院事宜。
On the first floor there were thirty or forty wards, and there was only one doctor in sight, busily engaged in discharging the patient.
大家围住他提问，他只是回答，「等这个疫情过去了，你们还可以再回来。
He was surrounded by questions, and he just said, "When this epidemic is over, you can come back again.
」院方没有明确地强制要求出院，但在那种情况下，所有人纷纷忙着打包东西，都默认这个局面无法更改。
The hospital did not explicitly mandate discharge, but in that case, everyone was too busy packing to allow the situation to change.
「那天下午就要开始收治病人了，病房就要做改造了，你不走你也得走啊。
"The hospital room is going to be reconditioned that afternoon, and you'll have to go if you don't leave.
」恐慌是一定的。
"The panic is certain.
有人不断唉声叹气，有人向医生哭泣，「好不容易过来就医啊，放疗做一半就停了怎么办？」「在一个救死扶伤的地方，你觉得你是一个被别人给抛弃了的。
Some people sigh and cry to the doctor, "How do you stop halfway through the radiotherapy?" "In a place that saves lives, you feel abandoned by someone else.
」那一刻，不是愤怒，律律有一种不可思议的感觉，「觉得这个事情已经超出了我能接受的范围。
"At that moment, instead of being angry, the law had an uncanny feeling that the matter was beyond my control.
」他注意到在那个100多人的病友群里，还有一些从外地过来的患者。
"He noticed that among the group of more than 100 sick people were patients who had come from outside the country.
他们将去哪里呢？他想，所幸自己是武汉人，尚有家可回。
Where were they going? Luckily, he thought, he was from Wuhan and had a family to go back to.
后来，他无瑕再去关注那些病友的去向。
Later, he was able to follow the whereabouts of his sick companions.
在严丽出院的同一天，涂静的堂弟成为了一名病人。
On the same day Yan Li was discharged from the hospital, Tu Jing's cousin became a patient.
疑似白血病，这是医生根据临床表现和血常规检查对他下的判断。
Suspected leukemia, this is the doctor according to clinical manifestation and blood routine examination to judge him.
即便此时，涂静都没有想到那场疫情会与堂弟发生直接关联。
Even then, Coolidge had no idea that the outbreak would be directly related to his cousin.
他们生活在孝感下属的一个县城，虽然离这场疫情的起点——武汉只有100多公里，但那是地理意义上的，心理意义上疫情离他们很远。
They live in a county of filial piety, and although it is more than 100 kilometers from the start of the epidemic - Wuhan - it is geographically significant and psychologically distant from them.
几天前，弟弟才突感全身无力难以走动并伴随低烧，家人一度以为是肺炎。
A few days ago, my brother suddenly felt weak and unable to walk around with a low fever, family once thought it was pneumonia.
瘟疫肆虐时，这家人的生活依然是平静幸福的。
When the plague struck, the family's life was still peaceful and happy.
过年期间，大家族没有采取城里人那样严格的自我隔离措施，还一起聚在村里吃过团圆饭。
During the Chinese New Year, the big family did not adopt the strict self-isolation measures of city residents, and together they gathered in the village to eat reunion dinner.
弟弟一个多月前刚办了婚宴，年初三晚上，弟弟与怀孕的妻子在县城街上散步，拍了一段视频，丢进20多人的亲戚群里。
My younger brother had a wedding party a little over a month ago. On the third night of the new year, my brother and my pregnant wife were walking through the county streets.
在这个群里，「肺炎」从来没有成为过被讨论的话题。
Pneumonia has never been a subject of discussion in this group.
「我们没有接触武汉人。
"We have no contact with Wuhan people.
」涂静说。
"said Tu Jing.
2月3日的晚上，弟弟转去孝感市中心医院——这是一家三甲医院。
On the night of February 3, my brother was transferred to Xiaogan City Central Hospital, a triple-A hospital.
做完骨髓穿刺后，程序卡住了。
After the bone marrow aspiration, the procedure got stuck.
既往骨髓穿刺都是送去武汉检验，而如今，物流停了，对接医院的检验也停了。
Previous bone marrow aspiration is sent to Wuhan for testing, but now, the logistics stopped, docking hospital inspection also stopped.
没有确诊结果，就无法制订治疗方案，医院只能对弟弟进行一些输液与输血的基础治疗。
Without the results of the diagnosis, no treatment plan can be developed and the hospital can only provide some basic treatment for infusion and transfusion to the younger brother.
那一天之后，亲戚微信群里再也没人说话了。
After that day, no one spoke in the group of relatives.
往前翻一翻，那些不久前拍下的照片、视频都在。
Turn forward, those recently taken photos, videos are in.
「没想到这么快，本来觉得可以好好过日子的，」涂静说，「那种热闹的场面，形成一种反差。
"I didn't expect to be able to get along so fast," said Tu Jing. "It was such a busy scene, a contrast.
」武汉街道封闭另一类人起先，她能做的和所有人一样，不过是在网上转发。
Wuhan streets seal off another kind of peopleAt first, what she could do, like everyone else, was just forwarding them online.
后来，她觉得可以比顺手的转发多做一点。
Later, she thought she could do a little more than just forward.
身在澳洲的留学生陈宜君在微博「肺炎患者求助」的超话里，看到了太多受苦受难的人。
Chen Yijun, an Australian student, saw too many suffering people in the hyperbole of "Pneumonia" on Weibo.
她和她的朋友们开始行动——都是网友，把求助信息录入表格汇总起来，以得到更多关注。
She and her friends began to act - all netizens, putting in help forms to get more attention.
很快，陈宜君发现，网络上有好几支志愿者力量也在对接肺炎求助，他们资源庞大，运作成熟，而自己「只有一个表格」。
Soon, Chen found that there were several volunteer forces on the network seeking help with pneumonia. They were resourceful and sophisticated, and had "only one form."
而在汇总信息的过程中，她也发现，其实有大量的非肺炎患者求助，夹杂信息洪流之中。
In the process of summarizing the information, she also found that in fact there are a large number of non-pneumonia patients for help, mixed with the flow of information.
而这一领域的志愿服务几乎是空白。
Volunteerism in this area is almost non-existent.
她和朋友们决定，转而服务这类求助。
She and her friends decided to turn to this type of help.
他们给这个有着20余名成员、只存在于网络的组织起了个戏谑的名字，「不要红包」。
They joked at the name, "No Red Packets," for an organization with more than 20 members that exists only on the Internet.
非肺炎患者，是一个疫情出现前不曾有过的词语。
Non-pneumonia is a term that did not exist before the outbreak.
新冠病毒重塑了经济、公共空间以及人们的日常生活，像涟漪一般扩散，将原本看似在外围的人收纳进被影响的范围。
By reshaping the economy, the public space, and people's daily lives, the new crown virus ripples out, absorbing those who appear to be on the periphery.
交通封锁，物流不畅，医院被征用，医生被调走，种种问题出现，波及到新冠肺炎患者以外的其他人群。
Traffic blockades, poor logistics, the expropriation of hospitals, the removal of doctors and problems affecting people other than those suffering from pneumonia in the New Crown.
艾滋感染者，抑郁症患者，孕妇，癌症病人，肾透析者.......他们如此不同，谁也不会想到，他们会被归拢为一类。
AIDS patients, depression patients, pregnant women, cancer patients, kidney dialysis patients... they are so different that no one would expect them to be grouped together.
「不要红包」在2月12日成立，两天下来就收集了100多例求助信息，这让他们意识到这项工作的紧迫性。
Launched on February 12, the No Red Packets collected more than 100 help messages in two days, making them aware of the urgency of the work.
陈宜君曾申请过开通「非肺炎求助」的超话，当时页面显示，有三四万人在申请。
Chen Yijun had applied to open a "non-pneumonia for help" hyperbole, when the page showed that 30,000 people were applying.
不知道什么原因，这个超话始终无法成立。
For some reason, this hypocrisy never worked.
志愿者只有通过更原始的方式，靠着关键词搜索，去寻找那些求助的声音。
The volunteers looked for help only in a more primitive way, relying on keyword searches.
他们正是通过这种方法找到了只有12个粉丝的涂静。
It was in this way that they found the silence of only 12 fans.
一些人发出求助时，会附上「肺炎患者求助」的标签，这样有机会混入后者已建立的超话里。
Some people ask for help by attaching a "Pneumonia Helper" label, giving them the opportunity to blend in with the hyper-language they have built up.
这是引起注意的不得已的办法。
This is a last resort to draw attention to.
疫情之下，肺炎患者是最先被想起来的人，非肺炎患者是另一类人。
Pneumonia is the first person to remember, and non-pneumonia is another.
关注有先后，就连志愿者也是如此。
There is a sequence of attention, even among volunteers.
与「不要红包」一样，一个名为「床位组」的志愿者组织，也经历过从肺炎到非肺炎议题的转移。
Like No Red Packs, a volunteer group called Bedspace Group has experienced a shift in topics from pneumonia to non-pneumonia.
顾名思义，这个组织不对接患者，只收集、发布医院的床位信息。
As the name implies, the organization does not docking patients, only to collect and publish hospital bed information.
他们发现，肺炎患者的送医与住院尚且有社区统筹，而非肺炎患者更大程度上要依靠自己。
They found that people with pneumonia were hospitalized and hospitalized with community co-ordination, rather than with pneumonia patients relying more on their own.
一位「床位组」成员告诉《人物》，在1月底的武汉，非肺炎患者跨区就诊普遍还是可行的，进入2月，各医院相继不接受自行求诊的其他区病人，优先保障本区人员——与新型肺炎患者先前所经历的曲线一致，这是医疗资源变得愈发紧张的证明。
A bedspace group member told People that cross-district visits to non-pneumonia patients were generally feasible in Wuhan at the end of January, with hospitals failing to accept patients from other districts seeking treatment on their own in February, giving priority to those in the district - consistent with the curves previously experienced by patients with new pneumonia, a testament to the increasing strain on medical resources.
让志愿者感到意外的是，部分求助不来自于肺炎集中爆发的疫区，而是来自于外部，就像是一场连锁反应，一些患者的手术被取消，只因为主治医生被调去前线了。
To the surprise of the volunteers, some of the help did not come from the area where the outbreak was concentrated, but from outside, acting as a chain reaction, with some patients having their operations cancelled simply because the attending physician had been transferred to the front line.
一位辽宁的志愿者告诉律律，他的母亲就属于这种情况。
A volunteer from Liaoning told the law that this was the case with his mother.
《人物》采访的案例中也包括一名湖北广水市脑动脉瘤患者有病危可能，在当地无法进行手术，武汉又不接收。
Among the cases interviewed by People was a case of a brain aneurysm in Hubei Guangshui, where surgery could not be performed and Wuhan could not accept it.
据报道，全国10%的重症专业医护人员去了湖北，主要集中于武汉。
It is reported that 10 percent of the country's serious medical professionals went to Hubei, mainly concentrated in Wuhan.
十几天下来，陈宜君和朋友感到极为疲惫，这是一个很难有成就感的工作。
Decades down, Chen Yijun and his friends feel extremely tired, this is a difficult work with a sense of accomplishment.
特别是一些大型手术，「对医疗环境、医疗资源有要求」，仅靠志愿者的力量难以推进。
In particular, some major surgeries, "medical environment, medical resources requirements," the strength of volunteers alone can not advance.
打电话成了志愿者能开展的有限事项里的重要一部分。
Making phone calls is an important part of the limited list of things volunteers can do.
给患者打电话更新信息与需求，给医院打电话问接收可能。
Call the patient to update the information and needs, call the hospital to receive the possible.
官方渠道公布出来的可就诊医院，只是一个名字，没有电话等具体信息。
Official channels for public access to hospitals, only a name, no specific information such as the telephone.
找电话也要耗费相当一番功夫，「找到哪个打哪个」，有些电话从来没打通过。
Finding a phone also takes a lot of effort. "Find which one to type," and some calls never pass.
后来，「不要红包」做了个在线表格来统计电话。
Later, "Do not red packets" made an online form to calculate the telephone.
「不要红包」曾制做海报说明医院接诊与床位信息，但很快就放弃了。
"Do not red packets" produced posters explaining hospital admissions and bed information, but they were quickly abandoned.
图片美观且明确，但弊端也很明显。
The picture is beautiful and clear, but the drawbacks are obvious.
「这个图做出去了，它就定在那儿了。
"The picture is made, and it is fixed there.
有一些人看到我们的这个图，还打电话去问，结果人家反馈就是，你这个信息现在好像不行了。
Some people see our picture and call to ask, and the feedback is that you don't seem to be able to get the message right now.
」陈宜君说。
"said Mr Chen.
各家医院的床位每时每刻都在变化。
The beds in the hospitals are changing all the time.
一位志愿者告诉《人物》，她曾为一名因车祸脑部遭重伤的病人寻找手术床位，在晚上6点找到两家医院可接受。
One volunteer told People that she had found an operating bed for a patient with a severe brain injury in a car accident and found two hospitals acceptable at 6pm.
和病人沟通完，晚9点再打电话，一个医院的床位已经没了，另一个医院的科室里出现疑似肺炎患者，不再接受新人。
Communicate with the patient, call back at 9 pm, a hospital bed is gone, another hospital section has suspected pneumonia patients, no longer accept new people.
「你充其量就是一个安慰，一个引导吧，告诉他不要放弃。
"You are at best a comfort, a guide, and tell him not to give up.
」陈宜君说。
"said Mr Chen.
每天醒来，有那么一会儿，这个住在「有吃有喝、天气也好」的环境里的留学女孩，难以区分梦境与现实。
Every day, when she wakes up, she finds it difficult to distinguish between dream and reality. She lives in an "environment of food, drink and weather."
在等待中，有人去世了，都是她曾录入过的名字。
While waiting, someone died, all of them names she had typed in.
有的时候，那只是她的噩梦。
Sometimes it's just her nightmares.
有的时候，那是真的。
Sometimes, that's true.
bridge-床位组在微博发布的非新冠肺炎患者医疗信息整理贴 图源网络「幸运」根据「不要红包」志愿组织的经验，孕妇与儿童相关的求助容易引起关注，当事人往往能够找到医院接受。
Luckily, based on the experience of volunteer organizations such as No Red Packets, pregnant women and children often get help from hospitals.
剩下的人里，相对容易解决的是断药的那批病人。
Among the rest, the relatively easy solution was the group of patients who had lost their medication.
他们主要分为几种情况：人困在老家，取药的定点医院在异地；因封城封村，无法出门取药；又或者，药物紧缺，在当地药房买不到。
They are divided into several situations: people are trapped in their home communities and designated hospitals for medicines are located in different locations; there is no access to medicines due to the closure of the city; or medicines are scarce and are not available at local pharmacies.
「我们可以找一些途径，看看能不能帮他们买到药物，或者运送药物。
"We can look for ways to help them buy medicine or deliver it.
」陈宜君说。
"said Mr Chen.
中国罕见病联盟在2月初启动了药物援助项目，通过联系药物供应方、协调药物配送，为300多名肢端肥大症、天使综合征、重症肌无力等罕见病人解决了用药问题。
The China Rare Diseases Alliance launched a drug assistance project in early February to address drug use problems for more than 300 rare patients, including acromegaly, angelic syndrome and myasthenia gravis, by linking drug suppliers and coordinating drug distribution.
一些同志权益机构发动艾滋感染者之间相互借药，很多求助在社群内部得以消化。
Some gay rights groups have launched cross-borrowing between people living with HIV, and many of the help has been absorbed within the community.
再剩下的人里，另一个较早得到重视的群体就是需要血液透析的尿毒症患者了。
Among the rest, another group that received early attention was uremia patients in need of hemodialysis.
2月5日，武汉市卫健委发布疫情以来首个关于非肺炎患者的针对性举措，慢性肾功能衰竭病人（终末期即尿毒症）和孕产妇一同被重点提及。
On February 5, Wuhan city health committee released the first targeted initiative on non-pneumonia patients, chronic renal failure patients (terminal uremia) and pregnant women were highlighted.
在尿毒症病友平台「肾一样的人」的创立者智安看来，这其中有偶然的成分。
According to Che'an, the founder of the Uremic Patient Platform "Kidney-like People," there is an element of chance.
尿毒症患者需要每周做两到三次透析，每次约4小时。
Patients with uremia require dialysis two to three times a week for about four hours each time.
在武汉前两批医院被征用时，受影响的病人尚能在其他医院找到位置，真正困境的出现，是1月底第三批医院被征用开始，「这个地区能有的空位基本上都被病人填满了」。
When the first two batches of hospitals in Wuhan were requisitioned, the affected patients were able to find places in other hospitals. The real dilemma arose when the third batch of hospitals was requisitioned at the end of January.
剩下能做透析的医院开了夜班，仍然应付不过来。
The rest of the dialysis hospitals were working night shifts and were still unable to cope.
就像一场抢凳子游戏，先受影响的病人，成了先坐下的一批，后受影响的人，发现找不到座位了。
Like a game of stools, the affected patients became the first to sit down, later affected by the people, found no seat.
尿毒症社群发出声音，早于问题成为问题之前。
The uremic community spoke out long before the problem became a problem.
自武汉实行管制后，意识到透析病人出行难，智安就找过十几家媒体，凤凰网和南都周刊在1月27日首先在社交平台呼吁关注这一群体。
Since Wuhan imposed controls, aware that dialysis patients travel difficult, Zhi'an has sought a dozen media, Phoenix and Nandu on January 27 first called attention to this group on social platforms.
之后，多家媒体发布透析病人困境的深入报道。
After that, several media released in-depth reports on the plight of dialysis patients.
在智安的争取下，中国生命关爱协会向上提交了内参。
Under the efforts of Zhi'an, the China Life Care Association submitted internal parameters.
2月4号国家卫健委的新闻发布会上，有记者问及孕妇处理安排时，发言人主动提及到了透析病人。
At a press conference on February 4, when asked about arrangements for handling pregnant women, the spokesman volunteered to talk about dialysis patients.
「说明在这场发布会之前他们已经做了预案了，要不他不可能做那些答复。
"It means they made plans before the launch, or he won't be able to give those answers.
」智安说。
"said Zhian.
在那之后，倾向性政策逐渐落地，武汉的透析点明显增多。
After that, the inclined policy gradually fell to the ground, Wuhan dialysis points significantly increased.
在「不要红包」建立的血液病与透析求助群里，涂静看到，一个个尿毒症患者在得到救治。
In the "No Red Packets" set up in the blood and dialysis help group, smear quiet to see, one after another uremia patients in the treatment.
「白血病的患者是很少吗，为什么没有得到关注和帮助？对于我们来说是一件很大的事情，对于整个社会来说好像，就像一粒尘埃一样，微不足道吧。
"Is the patient of leukaemia very few, why not get attention and help? For us it is a big thing, for the whole society, as if, like a speck of dust, insignificant.
」她想。
"she thought.
「我们喊得太早了。
"We shouted too early.
因为你发声越早，声音越大，你就越容易被关注到。
Because the earlier you speak, the louder your voice, the easier it will be for you to be noticed.
」智安说。
"said Zhian.
「你会发现其他的病人群体里面没有发声，只是在后期随着发展的时候，有一些被媒体关注到了，但是效果就差了。
"You'll find that other groups of patients don't have a voice, but as the development progresses, some get media attention, but the effect is poor.
因为精力、资源，包括很多东西都有限了。
Because energy, resources, including many things are limited.
」一次又一次的，他提到这个词，「幸运」。
Over and over again, he mentioned the word "lucky."
「肾一样的人」成立8年，覆盖5万多人，在全国80多个城市建有病友群。
"Kidney-like people" has been in existence for eight years, covering more than 50,000 people, with groups of sick people in more than 80 cities across the country.
社群的存在，确实能够起到提早预警、放大音量的效果。
The existence of the community, can indeed play an early warning, amplify the volume effect.
另一个例子是，早在农历新年刚过，受疫情牵连的诸多次生问题还未浮现时，武汉同志中心等机构就公开反映过艾滋感染者断药问题，引发媒体关注。
Another example is that just after the Lunar New Year, when many secondary problems related to the epidemic have not yet surfaced, organizations such as the Wuhan Gay Center have openly reflected the problem of people living with HIV / AIDS disabling their medicines, drawing media attention.
有社群联结的另一个好处体现在信息收集与传递上。
Another benefit of community connectivity is in the collection and delivery of information.
哪家医院的透析室开放了，病友来反馈的消息比媒体渠道，更准确且更快。
In which hospital the dialysis room opened, patients came to give more accurate and faster feedback than media channels.
「比如前些天，光谷三院被征用了（可提供透析），晚上10点多信息发出来，医生马上就通知病人，我们这边就知道了。
"For example, just a few days ago, the Kwun Tong Hospital was requisitioned (dialysis can be provided) and more than 10 pm messages were sent out.
」智安说。
"said Zhian.
不要说那些突发外伤的求医者，大部分慢性病患者也不具备这样的社群条件。
Do not say those who seek medical treatment for sudden trauma, most patients with chronic diseases do not have such community conditions.
「不要红包」的成员陈宜君说，透析问题作为率先解决的典型，也是因为操作相对简单，武汉民营透析机构有几十家。
Chen Yijun, a member of "No Red Packs," said the dialysis problem, typical of the first solution, was also due to the relatively simple operation, Wuhan non-governmental dialysis institutions have dozens.
病人除了去透析室，床旁透析也是可行的。
Besides going to the dialysis room, bedside dialysis is also possible.
「如果是要做手术的话，你得需要手术室，需要多个医生，还需要完善的急救设备。
"If you're going to have surgery, you need an operating room, you need a lot of doctors, and you need good first aid equipment.
手术完了之后，你也不能立刻回家，你得观察，那还要后续的一系列的救治。
After the surgery, you can't go home right away, you have to watch, and there's a series of treatments to follow.
」血液透析资料图 图源视觉中国夹在中间纸面上，透析的问题似乎解决了，确诊肺炎的透析者与未感染的透析者各有去向，分别由肺炎定点救治医院与未征用医院接收。
Hemodialysis chart source vision China is sandwiched between paper and dialysis problems seem to be resolved, with dialysis patients diagnosed with pneumonia and uninfected dialysis patients being treated separately by the pneumonia sentinel hospital and the unrequisitioned hospital, respectively.
但有些人发现自己夹在了中间——疑似肺炎感染者。
But some have found themselves caught in the middle - people with suspected pneumonia.
庄彪的父亲正是这种情况。
This was the case with his father.
2月7日早晨，老人陷入昏迷，一天前他刚在武钢医院做过透析，庄彪赶忙把父亲送去武钢医院急诊，拍了CT，发现肺部显影有感染。
On the morning of February 7, the old man fell into a coma. A day before he had done dialysis in WISCO Hospital. Zhuang Biao rushed his father to Wugang Hospital for emergency treatment.
而无法解释的昏迷可能更是加重了医院的顾虑，医院不让透析了。
The unexplained coma may have added to the hospital's concerns, which prevented dialysis.
庄彪告诉《人物》，父亲自2017年时肺部就有这个病灶。
Zhuang Biao told People that his father had had the lesion in his lungs since 2017.
他们去到九医院——那是肺炎定点救治医院，如果确诊就可以在那里做透析。
They went to the Nine Hospitals, the designated hospital for pneumonia, where they could be dialyzed if they were diagnosed.
但父亲的核酸检验结果是阴性，那里同样不接受。
But the father's nucleic acid test was negative and not accepted there, either.
从逻辑上，两家医院的做法都可以理解。
Logically, the approach of both hospitals is understandable.
武钢医院不接收，是担心疑似病人携带了病毒，感染了其他健康的人。
Wuhan Iron and Steel Hospital does not accept, is concerned about suspected patients with the virus, infected with other healthy people.
九医院不接受，则是担心疑似病人其实没有病，来了反而被其他病人传染。
Nine hospitals do not accept, is worried that the suspect is not really sick, come instead of being infected by other patients.
说得通的逻辑解决不了现实存在的问题，现实是，父亲哪里也去不了。
Reasonable logic does not solve existing problems, and the reality is that the father cannot go anywhere.
时间一点点地过去。
Little by little, time passes.
父亲在第二天发烧了，但烧很快退了，再没复发。
My father had a fever the next day, but it soon subsided and did not recur.
第三天，一直昏迷的父亲苏醒了。
On the third day the unconscious father came to life.
他像是变傻了，意识不清。
He seems to have become stupid and unconscious.
后来庄彪才搞清楚，父亲那晚吃光母亲的安眠药片，慢性病的长期折磨与突发的疫情，令他决定寻死。
Then Zhuang Biao found out that the night his father ate all his mother's sleeping pills, chronic diseases and sudden outbreaks of disease, he decided to seek death.
庄彪在微博发出求助，浏览量达到100多万时，他一度心怀希望。
When Zhuang Biao sent out calls for help and more than a million views, he was hopeful.
志愿者介入后，和他一起打了许多电话，包括远在郊县的医院，都无法接收。
Volunteers involved, and he made a lot of phone calls, including as far away as the hospital in suburban areas, can not be accepted.
庄彪渐渐认清了这个现实：「他们肯定不愿承担这个风险，所以只有在原来透析的医院想办法，尽快排除（疑似）。
Chuang Biao gradually realized the reality: "They are certainly not willing to take this risk, so only in the original dialysis hospital to find a way to remove (suspected).
」某些时刻，庄彪确实想过，父亲若是能确诊就好了，虽然多了一重苦难，至少可以有地方透析。
"At some point, Zhuang Biao really thought that if his father could be diagnosed, he would be able to have at least local dialysis, even if it meant a lot of suffering.
他不认为这么想有什么荒谬，因为「特别无助，没办法了」。
He did not think there was any absurdity in thinking of it, for he was "hopelessly helpless."
他当然也反复找过社区。
He has, of course, repeatedly approached the community.
「等上面通知。
"Wait for the announcement.
」他总是被这样回复。
"He was always given the answer.
武钢医院所在的青山区卫健委、国家卫健委、武汉疾控中心，就像所有的求助者一样，能打的电话都打了不止一轮。
Wugang Hospital located in the Qingshan District Health Commission, the National Health Commission, Wuhan CDC, like all the callers, can call more than one round.
要么太「上面」了，要么不是对口的「上面」。
Either it's too "top" or it's not the "top".
真正的上面是哪儿呢？他搞清楚了，武汉市血透质控中心，对全市的透析病人负责。
Where was the real one? He made it clear that the Wuhan Hemodialysis Quality Control Center was responsible for dialysis patients throughout the city.
那个机构挂靠在第一医院。
The institution is attached to hospital No. 1.
他打去问，「那也不是上面」，只是个透析室电话，对方什么也不知道。
He called and asked, "That's not even up there." It was just a dialysis room phone. He didn't know anything about it.
很难摆脱那种卑微的感觉。
It's hard to shake off that humbling feeling.
有次他和母亲跑去找武钢医院的透析室主任沟通，对方直接就说：「你们过来干什么，不要到处害人。
Once he and his mother went to talk to the director of the dialysis room of Wuhan Iron and Steel Hospital.
」说不上是谁的错，非常时期，人的神经都是紧绷的。
"Without saying whose fault it was, nerves were strained at the height of the emergency.
母亲与主任争执起来，他看着她在哭。
His mother argued with the director and he watched her cry.
后来，他也哭了。
Then, too, he cried.
到2月12日，父亲已在九医院、武钢医院和街道卫生站做过3次核酸检测，全部是阴性。
By February 12, my father had done three nucleic acid tests, all negative, at Nine Hospitals, Wuhan Iron and Steel Hospital and Street Health Station.
该庆幸吗？现在做核酸检测倒是容易多了，若是回到核酸试剂无比匮乏的上一阶段，确诊更是无门，庄彪想过，「那个时候会更麻烦」。
Is it easy to do nucleic acid testing now, if you go back to the previous stage of DNA reagent scarcity, diagnosis is no way, Zhuang Biao thought, "then will be more troublesome."
但硬币的另一面是，核酸假阴性的问题出现后，医院不再相信核酸结果。
But on the other side of the coin, after the false-negative nucleic acid problem emerged, hospitals no longer believed in nucleic acid results.
武钢医院最初告诉庄彪，两次检测为阴性，庄彪父亲即可回去透析，后来改为3次，最后说，还是要根据CT判断。
Wu Gang Hospital initially told Zhuang Biao, two tests negative, Zhuang Biao father can go back to dialysis, later changed to three times, said finally, or according to CT judgement.
特别是涉及到转院时，很多医院都对病人的核酸检验结果抱以谨慎态度。
Especially when it comes to referrals, many hospitals are wary of patients' nucleic acid tests.
一位因车祸脑部受伤病人也遭遇了类似情况。
A patient with a brain injury from a car accident suffered a similar condition.
他受伤后原本在金银滩医院住院——那里只治肺炎，不负责外科手术，2月16日核酸检验为阴性，院方要求他出院，但2月19日找到两家有床位的医院时，因为他有发烧，对方都要求他重新检测，3天前的结果不足信赖。
After his injuries, he was hospitalized at Golden Beach Hospital, where he was treated only for pneumonia and not for surgery, and was asked to leave the hospital on 16 February when negative nucleic acid tests were performed. However, when two hospital beds were found on 19 February, he was asked to retest because he had a fever and the results three days earlier were not reliable.
庄彪终于找到了「上面」。
Zhuang Biao finally found the "above."
志愿者给他一个号码，那是血透质控中心主任的电话。
The volunteer gave him a number, a call from the director of the Blood Transmittance Quality Control Center.
电话接通了。
The telephone is through.
对方告诉他，他们不对接病人，只是在医院之间协调空位。
He was told that they were not docking patients and were simply coordinating vacancies between hospitals.
他不再更新微博。
He doesn't update his tweets.
浏览量还在增加，他感到那束希望之光正暗淡下来。
As the number of views increased, he felt the glimmer of hope fading.
武汉医院里的医护人员突围无奈从肿瘤中心出院后，律律想到的去处是岳父母家，有老人帮手，方便照顾妻子。
Wuhan hospital medical staff broke out of the tumor center helplessly, legal thought of the place is his parents-in-law home, there are elderly helpers, easy to care for his wife.
到了那里，他才发现，上不了楼。
When he got there, he found that he could not get upstairs.
妻子无法行动，躺在担架上，而岳父母住的楼里没有担架电梯（轿厢尺寸1.1米×2.1米），只有方形电梯，担架进不去。
The wife was unable to move and lay on a stretcher, while her parents-in-law lived in a building with no stretcher elevator (1.1m x 2.1m), only a square lift, with no stretcher.
那是个不到10年的小区。
It was a small community for less than 10 years.
最后，他们只有回了自己家。
Finally, they had to go back to their homes.
担架电梯就像一个隐喻，代表着被忽略的需求。
The stretcher elevator is like a metaphor for neglected needs.
他曾注意过岳父母住的楼里没有那种长方形的电梯，但从没有意识到，它变成困难存在。
He had noticed that there was no rectangular elevator in the building where his parents-in-law lived, but he had never realized that it had become difficult.
「很多事儿可能只有真正的发生到自己身上，你才可以去理解其中的这个道理。
"A lot of things can only happen to you, and you can understand that.
」律律说，「一个成熟的城市，它的医疗体系里面，这一部分人其实本来就不应该会像现在这个地步。
"A mature city, with its healthcare system, this part of the population shouldn't be where it is now," the law says.
」打了一圈电话，「得到的答复是所有的医院的放疗全都停止了。
"I made a call." The answer was that all hospital radiotherapy had stopped.
」孝感县城里的涂静，还在设法让弟弟的骨髓穿刺得到检验。
Filial piety County in the quiet, but also trying to get my brother's bone marrow piercing to be tested.
她查到武汉有一些第三公司可以完成这种检测，联系到一家后得知，「大部分人是在做肺炎方面的核酸检测，没有人手做这个检查。
She found out that Wuhan had some third-party companies that could complete the test, and contacted one and said, "Most people are tested for nucleic acid in pneumonia.
」资源倾斜的现象，在这个市场也一样存在。
The same is true of resource bias in this market.
她后来又听说，医院对这种第三方检测不予认可，她彻底打消了念头。
She later learned that this third-party test was not accepted by the hospital and she gave up the idea altogether.
只有最后一条路了。
There's only one way out.
涂静和律律都想到了这条路：省外就医。
Calm and rhythm are thinking of this path: out-of-province medical treatment.
必须马上行动。
We must act now.
眼看着交通管制越来越严了。
Watching traffic control get tighter.
大约从2月中旬起，涂静所在的县城，从早7点半至晚6点半之间，是不允许车辆在路面通行的。
From about mid-February onwards, the county where Qujing is located, from 7.30am to 6.30pm, is not allowed to traffic on the road.
她在银行工作，5点半下班，要等一个小时才能回家。
She works in the bank and leaves work at half past five. She has to wait an hour to get home.
也正是交通原因，她一直没有机会去看望在市医院的弟弟。
It was because of the traffic that she never had the opportunity to see her brother in the city hospital.
在武汉，律律先前从家往返医院时，也被交警拦下过。
In Wuhan, the former law from the home to the hospital, was also stopped by traffic police.
他没有防疫通行证，「理论上不允许上路」。
He had no vaccination pass and was "theoretically not allowed to go on the road."
向交警解释情况特殊后，他被放行了，但被告知，下不为例。
After explaining the special situation to the traffic police, he was released, but was told not to give the example below.
至此，两个家庭的遭遇出现分野。
At this point, the two families encounter separation.
妻子严丽的高中同学自发组织了20多人的群，大家身在各行各业，将消息扩散出去。
His wife Yan Li high school students spontaneously organized a group of more than 20 people, people in all walks of life, spread the message out.
律律的表姐是媒体人，借助圈内人脉，律律发出的求助微博得到「十年砍柴」等大V转发，浏览量达到几百万次。
Ruling's cousin is a media person, with the help of insiders, the law issued a micro-request for help "10 years of wood cutting" and other large V-forward, the number of views reached millions.
他的求助也引起了青山区政府的关注。
His appeal also drew the attention of the Qingshan government.
一位负责人联系他，态度非常好，「在青山区只要有警察扣你车，你给我打电话，我马上给你解决。
A responsible person contacted him, very good attitude, "In the mountains as long as the police seize your car, you call me, I will solve you.
」通过北京的亲戚，兜兜转转经过多层关系，他们联系到北京一家医院的院长，那里引入美国的一种同位素全身放疗法，比一般化疗更有针对性，2月底将有床位。
Through relatives in Beijing, walking around in multiple circles, they contacted the president of a Beijing hospital, where an isotopic whole-body radiotherapy, introduced in the United States, is more targeted than chemotherapy and will have beds by the end of February.
一个公安系统的朋友捎来消息，只要北京医院能开收治证明，湖北出境，乃至沿途通行他都可以帮忙解决。
A friend of the public security system sent word that as long as the Beijing hospital can open a medical certificate, Hubei exit, and even along the way he can help solve.
这些只是口头承诺，让律律尤为振奋的，是武汉防疫指挥部交通管控组在今日头条通过官方账号针对妻子情况进行的回复：「我组建议由医院出具相关医学证明，经市、区防疫指挥部批准后由我组联系相关市民协调放行事宜。
These are just verbal promises, especially heartening to the traffic control group of Wuhan Preventive Command today through the official account of the response to the situation of his wife: "I recommend that the hospital produce relevant medical certificates, after approval by the city, regional epidemic prevention command, our team contact the relevant citizens to coordinate the release.
」对他来说，这份回复就像一张特别通行证。
To him, the reply was like a special pass.
鲜有人能够得到这样的安排。
Few have been able to get such an arrangement.
涂静屡屡受挫。
Calmness is often frustrated.
她找过两家外省医院，先前还谈得好好的，一听到病人来自湖北，对方就说不能接受了。
She went to two provincial hospitals, and when she heard that the patient was from Hubei province, she said she could not accept it.
涂静没有再找下去。
Quiet did not find any more.
她知道即便过了接受这一关，14天隔离这一关，弟弟是过不去的。
She knew that even after going through this 14-day quarantine, her brother would not make it through.
网上发布的求助，基本没有转发和留言。
On-line published help, basically no forwarding and message.
有关部门还是知道了她的情况，医院方面被问询。
The authorities were still aware of her condition and the hospital was questioned.
这过程的信息传递大概出现了一些误会，她接到了堂弟父亲的电话，他人在医院，问她是不是投诉了。
There was probably some misunderstanding about the process. She got a phone call from her cousin's father. He was in the hospital and asked if she had complained.
尽管认为自己所做的只是求助，「没有说什么不好的话」，她还是把那条微博删掉了。
Despite thinking that all she had done was ask for help and "say nothing bad," she deleted the microblog.
没多久她就后悔了，把求助再发了一次，还是没几条转发和留言。
It wasn't long before she regretted that she had sent in a second request for help, but there were not many forwarding and message.
当地派出所和孝感市卫健委倒是主动给涂静打过电话。
The local police station and filial piety city health committee is active to smear static call.
由头到尾，她又把事情讲了两遍。
From beginning to end, she told the story twice more.
对方调查很细致，给医院也打了电话。
The other side investigated very carefully, also called the hospital.
但涂静心知肚明，症结在武汉，唯有弟弟骨髓穿刺的检测能够被实现，事情才得以进展，否则「不断地调查，没有一个结果」。
However, I know that Wuhan is the crux of the matter, only if the detection of my brother bone marrow puncture can be achieved, things can only progress, or "continuous investigation, no results.
两条迥异的故事线，还是并入了同一轨迹。
Two very different story lines, or incorporated into the same track.
律律妻子的省外就医之路，还是出现了变数：那家北京医院所在街道的领导不同意。
The law wife's way out of the province, or a variable: the Beijing hospital where the street leaders do not agree.
「北京这边对其他省过来的人相对来说会宽松一点，武汉过来的人，还是比较严格地不接收。
"Beijing on the other provinces of the people will be relatively relaxed, Wuhan people, or relatively strict not to accept.
」律律说，「可能觉得我们会把肺炎带过去，有很多责任他需要承担。
"It may feel like we're going to take pneumonia with us and he has a lot of responsibility," the law said.
」几乎在同一时间，律律看到，武汉防疫指挥部废止了一条涉及出城车辆管理的通告（17号令），这意味着离汉渠道管理的收紧。
At about the same time, the law firm observed that Wuhan Anti-epidemic Command had rescinded a notice (17) dealing with vehicle management in the city, which meant tighter regulation of the Han channels.
武汉空荡的街头转机非肺炎患者的处境，是随着疫情受控以及肺炎与疑似病人「应收尽收」政策的落实，逐渐好转的。
The situation of non-pneumonia patients with empty street connections in Wuhan has gradually improved with the control of the outbreak and the implementation of the "receivable" policy for pneumonia and suspected patients.
2月18日，武汉市卫健委第二次发布非新冠肺炎特殊患者医疗救治医院名单，比第一次涉及病种更多，针对急性心脑血管疾病患者、外伤等急危重症患者、有血液透析需求的肾病患者、孕产妇和儿童、五官科疾病患者、烧伤患者等分别列出了对应的救治医院名单。
On February 18, the Wuhan Health Commission issued a second list of hospitals for special patients with non-Newly Coronary Pneumonia, more than the first ones, listing corresponding treatment hospitals for patients with acute cardiovascular diseases, severe injuries such as trauma, nephropathy patients with hemodialysis needs, pregnant women and children, patients with pentaphysical diseases and burn patients.
2月21日，市防疫指挥部增设「非新冠肺炎医疗救治组」。
On February 21, the Municipal Preventive Command added the "Non-Newly Crowded Pneumonia Medical Treatment Team."
新措施出台后，依然需要时间去磨合。
After the new measures come out, still need time to wear out.
据「不要红包」志愿者说，政府公布的多家外伤等急危重救治医院，实际上只能接受普通外伤的急诊，动不了大型手术。
According to "No Red Packets" volunteers, the government announced that a number of emergency hospitals, such as trauma, can only accept emergency treatment of common trauma, not large-scale surgery.
在大量医院和医护人员为肺炎服务的情况下，非肺炎病人的床位资源依然是稀缺的。
Bed resources for non-pneumonia patients are still scarce at a time when many hospitals and health care workers are serving pneumonia.
至于武汉之外的非肺炎病人，因为分散，还没有得到同样的关注。
As for the non-pneumonia patients outside Wuhan, because of the dispersion, has not received the same attention.
涂静的弟弟还在孝感医院输血，无法确诊。
Tu Jing's younger brother is still filial hospital blood transfusion, can not be diagnosed.
好消息是——如果这也算好消息的话，她2月23日发一条微博，这次她附上了「肺炎患者求助」的标签，转发上了千。
The good news - if that's good news, she posted a tweet on February 23, this time attaching the label "Pneumonia for help" and forwarding it to thousands.
「最近的求助少了一些，但也还有的。
"There has been less help lately, but there have been others.
」一个网友转发写道。
A netizen forwarded it.
在中断透析8天后，武昌医院终于同意让庄彪的父亲回去透析了。
After an eight-day hiatus from dialysis, Wuchang finally agreed to let his father go back to dialysis.
专门开辟了一个房间，为父亲以及其他几个疑似感染者进行隔离透析，护士们都穿着防护服作业。
A room was set aside for the dialysis of the father and several other suspected infections, and nurses wore protective clothing.
父亲身体很虚弱，透析时不停唉声叹息，似乎很不舒服，有次还提前20分钟要求结束。
My father was frail, groaning incessantly during dialysis, and seemed uncomfortable, in one case demanding an end 20 minutes in advance.
他有时会自己哭。
Sometimes he would cry himself.
庄彪想，既然可以隔离透析，为什么不早点进行呢，父亲不至于承受这么多苦。
Zhuang Biao thought, since can isolate dialysis, why did not carry on earlier, father does not suffer so much.
但他转念又想，「也是有人手方面的关系吧，他们也不敢随便接收。
But then he thought to himself, "It's also a matter of human hands, and they don't dare to accept it.
」2月21日，严丽在政府协调下，住进了普仁医院，这里可为她提供放疗。
On February 21, Yan Li was admitted to Puren Hospital, coordinated by the government, where she could be treated with radiation.
律律感到，他心里始终有一个过不去的槛。
The law felt that there was always a threshold in his heart that he could not cross.
「一个事情被爆发出来，社会上的资源、力量都会往那一个点上去集中，这个是好事，但是这个度总是没有把握好。
"It is a good thing that a matter is brought to the fore and the resources and forces of society converge at that point, but the measure is always uncertain."
」律律说，「每个人都是平等的，被忽视的这种感觉很难受，这个难受不是后续通过补救就能够抹平的。
"Everyone is equal," the law says. "The feeling of neglect is hard, and the pain is not smoothed out by subsequent remedies.
」律律依然盼望着，封锁能够解除，妻子能去北京接受更超前的治疗方案。
The law is still hopeful that the blockade will be lifted and that his wife will be able to go to Beijing for more advanced treatment.
之前他的注意力都在武汉，现在，北京的疫情变化也与他息息相关了。
Before his attention is in Wuhan, now, Beijing's epidemic changes are also closely related to him.
他开始特别关注一个他从未生活过的地方。
He began to pay special attention to a place where he had never lived.
每天早上起来第一件事，就是看肺炎数据，看北京的数字有无减少。
The first thing I do in the morning is to look at the pneumonia data and see if Beijing's numbers are decreasing.
「希望这个疫情赶快能够过去。
"Hopefully, the epidemic will soon be over.
」律律说。
'said the law.
（陈少远、王博对本文亦有贡献）没看够？长按二维码关注《人物》微信公号更多精彩的故事在等着你。
(Chen Shaoyuan, Wang Bo also contributed to this article) Did not see enough? Long two-dimensional attention to "People" micro-message more wonderful story waiting for you.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
已喜欢，对作者说句悄悄话。
Like it, whisper to the author.
发送给作者。
Send to author.
最多40字，当前共字。
Up to 40 words, currently in common.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫区夹缝：那些非新冠肺炎患者的命运。
Fate of patients with non-Newly crowned Pneumonia.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "疫区夹缝：那些非新冠肺炎患者的命运";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "「你发声越早，声音越大，就越容易被关注到。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "The earlier you speak, the louder your voice, the easier it is to be noticed.
」";。
";;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
