在人间丨露宿街头的医院护工：确诊了，这是个好的坏消息。
Hospital caretaker: Yes, it's good news.
陈曦。
Chen Xi.
在人间living                      。
Living on earth.
在人间living。
Living on earth.
用冷静的叙述抵抗冰冷 | 凤凰网在人间工作室出品。
Resist cold & # # 124; & # 45; Order of the Phoenix with a sober narrative.
凤凰新闻客户端 凤凰网在人间工作室出品打开凤凰新闻客户端，搜索「在人间」并关注我是河南人，在深圳读研究生。
Phoenix News client-side Phoenix net in the world studio to open Phoenix News clients, search "in the world" and pay attention to me as a Henan, in Shenzhen, graduate students.
疫情期间，我和好友筱筱在一个机构做远程志愿工作，负责收集求助信息，核实后，再由机构统一上报有关部门，安排收治。
During the outbreak, my friends and I did remote volunteer work in an institution, responsible for collecting help information, verification, and then unified reporting by the agencies to the relevant departments, arrangements for admission.
2月8日，晚上8、9点，我们收到一条求助信息：两位护工阿姨在武汉某医院照顾病人时感染上新冠肺炎，但医院、社区都不收治，目前在外流浪。
February 8, 9 p.m., we received a help message: two nurses and aunts in Wuhan hospital to care for patients infected with the new crown pneumonia, but the hospital, the community are not admitted to treatment, the current vagrant.
那天刚好是元宵节，筱筱和我讲的时候，我正在吃汤圆看元宵晚会。
That day was the Lantern Festival, and while Hisahino and I were talking, I was eating Tangyuan to watch the Lantern Festival.
看到信息我有些震惊，回复她：第一次听说在医院工作的人在医院染上病了，不能住院要流落街头！我放下吃了一半的汤圆，打电话过去，通过阿姨以及其所在的家政公司的讲述，大概还原了事情的经过：陈姨和张姨，分别48岁、52岁， 她们从湖北孝感和黄冈来武汉，经家政公司介绍在医院打工。
When I first heard that the people working in the hospital were sick and could not be hospitalized, I put down half of the Tangyuan, called and told the story of Aunt Chen and Aunt Zhang, aged 48 and 52, who came to Wuhan from Hubei Xiaofei and Huang Gang respectively and worked in the hospital on the recommendation of the Home Affairs Company.
在新冠肺炎爆发前，她们已在武汉市中心医院后湖院区（下称后湖院区）从事护理工作多年，是资深护工。
Before the outbreak of new crown pneumonia, they had been engaged in nursing work in the backlake courtyard of Wuhan city central hospital (hereinafter referred to as Houhu courtyard area) for many years, was a senior nurse.
她们白天在病房照顾病人起居，晚上就支一个陪护床，睡在病人旁边。
They take care of the sick in the ward during the day and sleep next to the patient in a chaperone bed at night.
张姨说，她经常很长一段时间不出医院大门，24小时在病人身边。
Zhang said she often did not go out of the hospital for a long time, 24 hours next to the patient.
1月26日起，后湖院区被征用为新冠肺炎定点医院，该院其余病人被转至武汉中心医院本院，陈姨和张姨也跟着照顾的对象一起转移。
Since January 26, the Houhu courtyard area has been requisitioned as the Xinguan Pneumonia Hospital. The rest of the patients in the hospital have been transferred to Wuhan Central Hospital Hospital. Aunt Chen and Aunt Zhang have also been transferred along with their clients.
转移后的第二天，陈姨照顾的老年患者开始发烧并被隔离。
The day after the transfer, the elderly patient under Aunt Chen's care developed a fever and was isolated.
2月5日，陈姨也开始发烧。
On 5 February, Aunt Chen also developed a fever.
2月6日晚，陈姨在医院做了CT和验血，结果与新冠肺炎症状形似。
On the night of February 6, Aunt Chen had a CT and blood test at the hospital.
同日，在同一病房工作的张姨也出现症状。
On the same day, Aunt Zhang, who worked in the same ward, also developed symptoms.
7日，陈姨做了核酸检测，张姨则做了CT和验血。
On July 7, Aunt Chen did a nucleic acid test, while Uncle Zhang did a CT and blood test.
“双肺散在斑片状感染病灶，磨玻璃样密度增高影”，疑似感染。
"Two lungs scattered in the speckle-like infection focus, grinding glass-like density increased shadow", suspected infection.
“马上去社区登记吧”，医生告诉张姨。
"Register to the community now," the doctor told Aunt Zhang.
疫情下的武汉，医院是不能直接接收病人的，病人只能先上报给自己所在的社区，再由社区安排去检查，根据检查结果进行收治。
Wuhan, under the epidemic situation, the hospital is not able to receive patients directly, patients can only report to their own community, and then arranged by the community to check, based on the results of the examination.
■两位护工阿姨的检验报告单。
:: Inspection reports from two nurses' aunts.
听到自己可能被感染，“很害怕，没想到遭遇这一出”， 张姨说。
Hearing that he might be infected, he said, "I was so scared that I didn't expect to meet him," Zhang said.
因为平时都是以医院为家，吃住都在医院，她们便赶紧联系了医院所在的社区，但是社区说她们不是本社区居民，“管不了”。
Because they usually live in the hospital, eat and live in the hospital, they quickly contact the hospital community, but the community said they are not residents of the community, "out of control."
阿姨不知道自己属于哪个社区，她们没有其他住处。
The aunt did not know which community she belonged to and they had no other place to live.
此时医院也不让她们住了，护士长让她们必须离开，一是她们没有要照顾的病人，二是她们也疑似感染了。
They were also not allowed to stay at the hospital, and the head nurse told them to leave because they had no patients to look after and because they were suspected of having contracted the infection.
张姨想回老家治病，但是武汉封城，出不去，回不了家。
Uncle Zhang wanted to go back to his hometown to cure his illness, but Wuhan could not get out and go home.
她们不知道自己能去哪，白天就在医院门口的花坛坐着，晚上就找个附近楼房的楼梯间睡。
They don't know where they can go, sitting in the flower beds outside the hospital during the day and sleeping in the stairwell in a nearby building at night.
“我们带的衣服也不多，武汉晚上又很冷，我们第一天夜里冻得直哆嗦”。
"We didn't have many clothes, Wuhan was cold at night, and we shivered the first night."
我核实信息后，按照正常流程上报了。
I checked the information and reported it in accordance with the normal procedure.
“能不能先想办法找个出租屋或者酒店，先解决阿姨们的住宿问题，总不能一直睡街头吧。
'Could you try to find a taxi or a hotel, and settle the problem of the aunts' lodging first, instead of always sleeping on the street?
” 我有些担心，两个阿姨现在只是疑似病例，上报了也不会马上解决，一般都是优先安排已经确诊的重病患者。
"I'm worried that the two aunts are now only suspected cases that will not be resolved immediately if they report them, usually giving priority to patients who have already been diagnosed with a serious illness.
我把这个担心发在了志愿者群里。
I sent this concern to the volunteer corps.
“那就发微博吧，带话题”，筱筱比较了解这方面。
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
说做就做，10点，我们发出求助微博，希望给两位护工阿姨找到住处，很快转发量就到了2.5万。
Just do it. At 10: 00, we sent out a micro-blog for help, hoping to find a place for two nurses and aunts, and soon the transmissions reached 25,000.
董董是最先联系我的，她们是一个线上的志愿团体，人不在武汉，但可以帮忙联系医院附近的酒店，住宿花销她们也可以出。
Dong is the first to contact me, they are an online voluntary group, people are not in Wuhan, but can help contact the hotel near the hospital, they can also pay for accommodation.
第二个联系我愿意提供帮助的是大白，她说问一下在武汉有房子的朋友，“两个阿姨是疑似患者，住你朋友那里没问题吗？”我觉得疑似感染这个情况要先和提供帮助的人说清楚。
The second contact I would like to help is the white, she said that there is a house in Wuhan friends, "two aunts are suspected patients, live with your friends?" I think the suspected infection of this situation should be explained to the people providing help.
没过多久，大白告诉我找到了，但是需要阿姨自己过去，不是很远，开车10分钟就能到。
It wasn't long before White told me that I had found it, but I needed my aunt to come by herself. It wasn't very far.
我赶快把这个好消息告诉阿姨。
I hastened to tell my aunt the good news.
但是怎么过去又成了难题，已经是凌晨一点多了，我们把求助信息发到武汉志愿车队的群里，没有收到任何回复。
But how the past has become a difficult problem, it is one o'clock in the morning, we sent help to Wuhan volunteer convoys, did not receive any response.
我试着联系了一个熟人，对方表示没有防护设备不敢接送。
I tried to contact one of my acquaintances, who said there was no protective equipment.
也能理解，面对传染力如此强的新冠肺炎，谁会冒着风险在没有隔离防护的状况下接触疑似患者呢！■ 车主因为护工阿姨是疑似患者不肯接送她们去住的地方时，两个阿姨不停向我展示她们随身携带的消毒用品，但是对方依然觉得没办法保障。
Understandably, in the face of such a contagious new crown pneumonia, who risks contacting the suspected patient without being quarantined, two aunts kept showing me the disinfectant supplies they had brought with them, but the other didn't feel safe.
董董也没有好消息，几乎所有酒店都被政府征用了，有房间的也不愿接收发热病人。
Dong also has no good news, almost all hotels have been requisitioned by the government, rooms do not want to receive fever patients.
酒店这条路也行不通。
This hotel road doesn't work either.
一直到凌晨3点，我们都没找到愿意送阿姨过去的人。
We didn't find anyone willing to send our aunt over until 3 am.
没办法，我只得告诉阿姨等天亮了再想办法。
No way, I had to tell my aunt to wait until dawn to do something about it.
后来我才知道这一晚对两个阿姨意味着什么，这是她们在街边睡的第二晚，恐慌，没有住处，不知道明天能去哪儿……她们几乎一晚未眠。
It was the second night they slept on the street, panicked, had no place to live, didn't know where to go tomorrow... and they stayed up almost all night.
微博发出后，我的电话几乎被打爆了。
After the tweet, my phone almost blew out.
“是真的吗？两个阿姨现在情况怎样？”“你们试试这个电话”……人民日报等媒体也主动联系我们说可以帮忙登记，也有记者说想采访两个阿姨。
"Is it true? How are the two aunts doing?" "You try this phone...".. People's Daily and other media have contacted us to say that we can help register, and some reporters said they want to interview two aunts.
我和筱筱都不在武汉，只能远程打电话联系。
I and Sasakao are not in Wuhan, only remote telephone contact.
我们相继联系了三家机构，无果。
We contacted three institutions in succession, to no avail.
得到的回复或者说不归他们管，或者说可以上报，但是什么时候有结果，目前“不知道”。
The responses received are either not in their charge, or can be reported, but when the results, "do not know."
社区说很多本地居民都还在排队，没办法安排；医院说他们这个院区不接受发热病人，双方都让我们去找对方或者其他人问问。
The community said many local residents were still queuing up to arrange the visit. The hospital said they would not accept febrile patients in the compound.
这一天听到最多的两个字就是“不行”。
The two words most often heard on this day are "No."
坏消息却接踵而至，同意提供住房的好心人，因为物业公司不允许疑似病例进入小区，收回了许诺。
Bad news ensued, and good people agreed to provide housing, because property companies refused to allow suspected cases to enter the community and retracted their promises.
陈姨的核酸检测结果出来了，阳性，确诊了。
Auntie chen's nucleic acid test came out, positive, confirmed.
■两位护工手持CT的照片。
▪ Two nurses holding CT photographs.
下午3点，我们突然联系不上她们。
At 3 p. m., we suddenly lost contact with them.
后来，她们说是有人来接，但是谁接的，去了哪里，阿姨始终不肯说。
Later, they said that someone came to pick up, but who picked up, where to go, aunt always refused to say.
我和筱筱担心她们的安全，赶紧告知阿姨的女儿和家政公司。
Here was Hisahito and I worried about their safety and told Auntie's daughter and home office.
张姨的女儿告诉我，有一个同乡送她们去了一个小旅馆，40块钱一晚，两个人就挤在一个只能放下一张床的房间。
Aunt Zhang's daughter told me that a fellow countryman had taken them to a small hotel. Forty dollars a night, the two of them were huddled together in a room with only one bed to put down.
她们去旅馆时隐瞒了病情，“她们也知道这么做不好，可实在是太累了，两天了没有睡好觉，就吃了几块饼干，还是雇主给她的。
They went to the hotel to conceal their illness. "They knew it wasn't good, but they were too tired. After two days without a good night's sleep, they ate some biscuits, which the employer gave her.
我妈有糖尿病，不能吃甜的，实在饿极了。
My mother has diabetes, can not eat sweet, really hungry.
”我想，如果被人发现、举报，能入院也行，现在两人至少可以休息一下。
"I think if someone finds out and reports them, they can go to the hospital, and now they can at least have a rest.
我和阿姨讲要深居简出，尽量不要出门接触人。
My aunt and I talked about living in seclusion, trying not to get out of touch.
但她们根本没有接触人的机会，刚刚睡下，就被叫醒。
But they had no contact at all and were woken up as soon as they fell asleep.
她们被赶出来了。
They were driven out.
除了医院门口，她们不知道能去哪儿。
They didn't know where to go except at the hospital gate.
一切又回到了原点。
It's all back to square one.
那时候已经晚上8点多了，如果再找不到住处，她们将继续流落街头。
It was already past 8 p.m. and if they could no longer find a place to live, they would continue to live on the streets.
我重新联系了所有可能提供帮助的人、机构，告诉他们陈姨确诊的消息，希望可以加急处理。
I recontacted all the people and institutions who might be able to help. I told them about Aunt Chen's diagnosis.
一个负责登记的志愿者告诉我，如果确诊了也就好办一些，按照武汉现在的救助标准，确诊可以直接登记上报医院。
A volunteer responsible for registration told me, if the diagnosis is also easier to do, according to Wuhan's current rescue standards, diagnosis can be directly registered to the hospital.
但最快也要明天才能有结果。
But it won't come to fruition until tomorrow at the earliest.
确诊了，就方便上报，这真的是一个好的坏消息。
Confirmed, easy to report, this is really a good bad news.
社区的人也说他们会安排阿姨去隔离点，但是要排队，也算有一点进展了。
The community also said they would arrange for the aunt to go to the quarantine point, but the queue was a bit of a step forward.
期间我曾联系一个区里的负责人，她也得了肺炎，但会帮忙解决。
During that time, I contacted the head of a district who also had pneumonia, but would help.
这个冬天，武汉生病的人真的太多了。
Wuhan really has too many sick people this winter.
晚上，我有些失落。
In the evening, I was lost.
我不知道明天还能有什么新的办法，更害怕阿姨灰心失望。
I don't know what else to do tomorrow. I'm more afraid my aunt will lose heart.
记者老谢说，难免的，在这么大的灾难面前，我们每个人的力量都很薄弱。
Reporter old Xie said, inevitable, in the face of such a big disaster, each of us is very weak.
每天媒体都在更新确诊人数、治愈人数，但每一个生命都不是数字。
Every day the media updates the number of people diagnosed, the number cured, but every life is not a number.
两位阿姨甚至可能都不在统计数字之内。
The two aunts may not even be in the statistics.
晚上11点多，老谢的同事给阿姨送去了棉衣热饭，她们已经好久没吃过热乎的东西了。
More than 11: 00 p.m., old Xie's colleagues sent Auntie warm cotton clothes, they have not eaten hot things for a long time.
接近零度的武汉不再那么冷。
Wuhan, near zero, is no longer so cold.
2月9日，也就是我们发微博的第二天晚上，阿姨依然睡在街边，求助依然在继续。
On February 9, the night after we posted our tweets, my aunt was still sleeping on the street, asking for help.
可能是我们多渠道的求助起到了作用，也可能是因为武汉“应收尽收、应诊尽诊”新指令的下达，2月10日下午，社区便送阿姨到了武汉弘济骨科医院，这是一个临时隔离点。
Perhaps our multi-channel help has played a role, or perhaps because Wuhan "due to the receipt of all available, consultation," the new directive, February 10 afternoon, the community sent aunt to Wuhan Hongji Orthopaedic Hospital, which is a temporary isolation point.
两位阿姨难得放松下来，显得很开心。
The two aunts seldom relax and look happy.
她们不停地和我讲在隔离点的事情，把居住环境，护士送来的吃的、药，都拍照片发给我。
They kept telling me about the quarantine, the living environment, the food and medicine the nurse had brought me, and they sent me pictures.
尽管此地不能安排治疗，但她们觉得不用再睡街边，已经很好了。
Although the place could not be arranged for treatment, they felt that they did not need to sleep on the street anymore.
■阿姨向我展示隔离点发给她们的生活用品，吃的和药。
▪ Auntie showed me the daily necessities, food and medicine given to them from the quarantine point.
两天后，她们分别被送去医院接受治疗。
Two days later, they were taken to separate hospitals for treatment.
张姨以疑似病例入院，后来也确诊了。
Zhang was hospitalized with a suspected case and was later confirmed.
张姨还说医生给了治糖尿病的药，血糖也比较稳定了。
Aunt Zhang also said the doctor gave the medicine for diabetes, blood sugar is also relatively stable.
2月13号，全国新增确诊人数突然多了一万多例，很多人感到恐慌，但我知道这是一个好消息。
On February 13, there were suddenly more than 10,000 new diagnoses across the country, and many people panicked, but I knew it was good news.
更多“统计数字”之外的人被看到了。
More people outside the "statistics" were seen.
3月5号，她们住院半个月后，张姨说，她最近又做了一次核酸检测，阴性。
On March 5, after they had been in hospital for half a month, Zhang said she had recently had another nucleic acid test negative.
医生说再观察2天，没问题就可以出院。
The doctor said he could leave the hospital after two more days of observation.
陈姨的身体状况也在好转。
Aunt Chen is also getting better.
“那出院以后去哪儿呢？”我有些担心，一般出院的都会被社区的人接走，送回社区点继续隔离。
"Where do I go when I get out of the hospital?" I'm worried that people who are usually discharged from the hospital are picked up by the community and sent back to the community to remain isolated.
不知道送阿姨来的社区愿不愿意接收她们回去，康复后有没有人愿意租房子给她们住。
I don't know if the community that sent the aunt will accept them back, and if anyone is willing to rent a house for them when they recover.
“医生说，等我们康复了，社会还会送我们去隔离点隔离”，听到这个答案我松了一口气，至少目前听到的都是好消息，一切都在好转。
"The doctors say that when we get well, society will send us to quarantine," I said, relieved to hear that, at least for now, the good news is that things are improving.
或许等到春暖花开时，阿姨已经可以回到自己的家乡了。
Perhaps by the time the spring blooms, aunt has been able to return to their hometown.
事后有人给阿姨捐款，阿姨坚持不肯收。
The aunt refused to accept the donation after it was given to her.
她们说一日三餐都有保障了，有吃有喝的，外面还有很多无法得到救治的人，他们更需要帮助。
They said three meals a day are guaranteed, there is food and drink, there are many people outside can not be treated, they need help more.
我和筱筱悬着的心终于放下了，筱筱开玩笑说：“我们这次也算做了件好事，可惜没留名字。
No, no, no, no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no
”我们继续登记求助信息、核实，我们知道我们抓紧多登记一个人，说不定就可以多帮助一个人，甚至是挽救一个生命。
We continue to register for help and verify that we know that by registering more people, we may be able to help an additional person, or even save a life.
记得2月15日那天，两个阿姨和我讲，她们已经被安排入院，不知道怎么谢谢我，我说：“那等您康复了，我去武汉了，您请我吃热干面……”真希望那一天可以早点到来。
I remember on February 15, two aunts and I said that they had been admitted to hospital, do not know how to thank me, I said: "When you recovered, I went to Wuhan, you invited me to eat hot dry noodles..." I really hope that day can come early.
（图片均由受访者提供）更多疫情故事，请点击左下角「阅读原文」。
For more information on the epidemic, please click "Read the original text" at the bottom left corner.
新型肺炎疫情牵动人心，《在人间》现面向全国网友征稿：（一）疫区影像日记如果你身处疫区请你用照片（视频）和文字记录你所听闻和见到的一切照片不少于3张文字不少于300字投稿方式：微信联系人间君（zairenjianliving）（二）抗击疫情真实故事无论你是一线医护人员、志愿者、确诊或疑似患者及家属、已治愈出院人士等等，如果希望讲述疫情相关经历，请微信联系人间君（zairenjianliving）。
If you are in an epidemic area, please use photos (video) and writing to record all photos you hear and see in no less than 300 words. Whether you are a frontline health care worker, volunteer, confirmed or suspected patient and family member, cured patient or discharged person, please contact the ruler of the world by letter.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
在人间丨露宿街头的医院护工：确诊了，这是个好的坏消息。
Hospital caretaker: Yes, it's good news.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "在人间living";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; at & quot; among men.
var msg_title = "在人间丨露宿街头的医院护工：确诊了，这是个好的坏消息";。
var msg _ title = & quot; hospital care worker: Yes, it's good news and good news;;
var msg_desc = "“夜里我们冻得直哆嗦”";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "We shivered at night" and & quot;;
title: '在人间丨乡村防疫观察：没有什么比串门更诡异的了',。
& # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '在人间丨基层干部的抗疫日记：从封路、隔离到复工',。
Diary of resistance to disease among people, from road sealing to quarantining to reinstated & apos;
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '在人间丨我在武汉金银潭医院ICU的10小时',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="在人间living";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; at human & quot;
