战至中局：一支医疗援助队的武汉记忆 | 一线日记。
War to the middle: a first-line diary of a medical aid team.
北青深一度。
North Qingsheng one degree.
北青深一度                      。
North Qingsheng one degree.
北青深一度。
North Qingsheng one degree.
北京青年报深度报道部官方公众号。
Beijing Youth Daily in-depth coverage of the Department's official public number.
提供更深一度，更快一步的时事新闻资讯，守望变革中国的纵深阅读。
To provide a deeper and faster news of current events, and to keep watch for changes in China's in-depth reading.
。
.
记者/ 刘汨编辑/ 宋建华世纪坛医院护士刘宇航摘下口罩的一瞬间那辆579路公交已经很久没到过武汉的地标之一江滩公园了，过去的一个多月，它成了北京医疗队的摆渡车，往返于三角湖路和武汉协和西院之间。
The 579 public transport had not been to Jiangtan Park, one of Wuhan's landmarks, for a long time, and had become a ferry service for the Beijing Medical Team from Delta Lake Road to Wuhan Concorde West Hospital for over a month.
从午后到凌晨，驶过空荡的街道，车上的乘客只有医生和护士。
From noon to early morning, the empty streets were driven only by doctors and nurses.
1月27日，北京12家医院组成的医疗队抵达武汉，接手协和西院三个病区，截至3月5日9时，累积收治患者302人、出院70人，其中绝大多数是重症和危重症病例。
On January 27, a medical team from 12 hospitals in Beijing arrived in Wuhan and took over the three sicknesses of the Western Concorde Hospital. As of 0900 hours on March 5, 302 patients had been admitted and 70 discharged, the vast majority of them critically ill and critically ill.
跟随医疗队出发之前，我能够想见，这段日子大部分的画面，将会由患者、家属和医护人员组成。
Before I follow the medical team out, I can imagine that most of the images of these days will be made up of patients, family members and medical staff.
但当这种设想以具体的人物和故事出现时，所受的冲击还是超过了我的想象。
But when it comes in the form of specific people and stories, the impact is greater than I thought.
无数个瞬间最终构成了一座天枰，一端是骑50分钟共享单车、来找一张床位的患者，写下承诺书、不愿占用过多医疗资源的家属；另一端是重返隔离病房、记忆被唤醒的非典老兵，以及刚开始插管病人高风险护理的95后护士。
Innumerable moments culminated in a scale of 50 minutes of sharing a bicycle to find a bed for a patient, writing a statement of commitment not to take up too much medical resources, and returning SARS veterans with awakened memories at the other end, and post95 nurses who had just begun to intubate patients for high-risk care.
维系这座天枰平衡的，不只是医术，还有意志和人心。
What sustains this balance is not only skill, but will and heart.
正在穿戴防护装备的医疗队员1月27日：一场战争这天，是我第一次听到，有人把这件事比作一场战争。
MEDICAL USE: A WAR DAY, IT'S THE FIRST TIME I've ever heard, someone likened it to a war.
在去机场的路上，朝阳医院领队唐子人跟队员们说了一句战争电影里的台词：“咱们里面，我会第一只脚踏上武汉，最后一只脚离开，我一定会把你们安全带回来。
On the way to the airport, the leader of Chaoyang Hospital, Tang Zi, spoke to the players in the war movie, "I will step on Wuhan with my first foot and leave with the last foot.
”出发前几天，宣武医院的护士阮征有点生气，当警察的丈夫对什么事都很镇定，好像对她来武汉也没什么特别的反应。
A few days before her departure, Nguyen Tzu, a nurse at Xuanwu Hospital, was a little angry, and when the police husband was calm about everything, he seemed to have no particular reaction to her arrival in Wuhan.
直到临出发的时候，同事把丈夫拉到跟前，阮征发现他哭得像个孩子似的。
When he was about to leave, his colleague pulled him up to him and Ruan Zheng found him crying like a child.
阮征一下乐了，掏出手机说：“来，记录一下，20年了，第一次看见你掉眼泪。
"Ruan Zheng took out his mobile phone and said," Come on, record it for 20 years, and see you cry for the first time.
”晚上8点半，航班即将起飞，机长广播的声音有点儿哽咽，他把医疗队的成员比作“英雄”，自己也因为即将飞往武汉感到自豪。
At 8: 30 p.m., shortly before the flight took off, the captain's voice choked as he compared the members of the medical team to "heroes" and was proud to be on his way to Wuhan.
1月28日：“那里已经被污染了”医疗队从三角湖路的住地出发，10分钟后，那辆作为摆渡车的579路停在了武汉协和西院门口，医疗队的第一次对接即将开始。
January 28: "There has been contaminated" the medical team from the triangle lake road settlement, 10 minutes later, that 579 as a ferry stopped at the west yard of Wuhan Concorde, the first docking of the medical team is about to begin.
下车后，大家愣了几秒，远远看见发热门诊里拿着CT片子徘徊的病人们。
After getting out of the car, we stared for a few seconds, saw the fever clinic with CT films wandering patients.
突然有人把一包东西塞到了我的衣服口袋里，拿出来一看，是一个防护效果更好的N95口罩。
Suddenly someone shoved a packet into my pocket and pulled it out. It was a better protective N95 mask.
“把这个也戴上吧，你那个不行”，给我口罩的是宣武医院的男护士王长亮，我俩在车上刚认识。
"Put this on, you can't do that," I gave the mask is Xuanwu Hospital male nurse Wang Changliang, we just met in the car.
在我耳边叮嘱完，他走开了。
He walked away, after he had whispered in my ear.
医疗队被带到了协和西院的侧门，一进去就是即将收治病人的住院部大楼。
The medical team was taken to the side gate of the Concorde hospital, where the inpatient was to be admitted.
武汉本地医务人员一再提醒，不要再从刚才的发热门诊经过，“那里已经被污染了。
Wuhan local medical staff repeatedly reminded, do not from the fever clinic just past, "there has been contaminated.
”王长亮与唐子人 摄影/高曌2月1日：被唤醒的记忆第一次走出武汉的隔离病房，有人问唐子人和非典时比是什么感觉，2003年，他是朝阳医院首批进入发热门诊的医生之一。
"Wang Changliang and Tangzi photography / Gao name February 1: The first time awakened memories walk out of the isolation ward in Wuhan, someone asked about the feelings of Tang Zi and SARS.
唐子人笑着反问：“那会儿我33岁，如今50了，你说呢？”穿上防护服的那一刻，宣武医院医生李艳17年前的记忆又被唤醒了，窒息、幽闭、浑身上下被压力包裹。
"I was 33 then, but now I'm 50, don't you thinkThe moment I put on the protective clothing, the memories of Xuanwu Hospital doctor Li Yan 17 years ago were awakened, suffocated, claustrophobic and covered with pressure.
作为呼吸科医生，她知道人甚至可以忍受刀扎、针刺，但最不能忍耐的就是窒息。
As a respiratory doctor, she knew that people could even put up with knives and needles, but the most intolerable thing was suffocation.
似曾相识的还有病房里的病人。
Also familiar was the patient in the ward.
17年前，李艳所在的非典病房里，住进来一位70多岁姓杨的老人，在一周后去世。
Seventeen years ago, Li Yan lived in her SARS ward when an elderly man in his 70s, Yang, died a week later.
当天，同一张床上又住进一个30来岁的女人，也姓杨。
On the same day, a woman in her 30s, also known as Yang, was living in the same bed.
李艳后来才知道，他们两人是父女。
Li Yan later learned that they were both father and daughter.
医疗队在武汉首批收治的病人里，有一对60多岁的老夫妻，他们坚持要住在同一间病房，好相互有个照应。
Among the first patients admitted to Wuhan by the medical team was an elderly couple in their 60s who insisted on living in the same ward so that they could take care of each other.
但两个人都是疑似病例，必须单独隔离，王长亮劝了很久，他们才接受了住在对门的安排。
But two people are suspected cases, had to be isolated, Wang Changliang advised for a long time, they accepted the arrangement of living on the door.
2月2日：坏消息的告知李艳告诉我，那对想住在一个病房的老夫妻，老太太去世了。
February 2: The bad news to Li Yan told me that the old couple who want to live in a ward, the old lady died.
老人的儿子在外省没法回来，相关手续必须找她的丈夫签字。
The old man's son could not come back in the province, so the formalities had to be signed by her husband.
隔离病房里，“坏消息的告知”从来不是一件容易的事，隔着厚厚的防护装备，眼神和和肢体语言都很难带来足够的安慰。
In the isolation ward, "bad news" is never an easy thing to do, and with thick protective equipment, eye and body language is hardly enough comfort.
李艳和同事做好了各种预案，如果老人不肯签字怎么办，如果情绪激动、甚至伤害自己怎么办，他们早早让一台抢救车停在了门口。
Li Yan and her colleagues have made various plans. What if the old man refuses to sign them and if he feels excited or even hurts himself, they have an early ambulance parked at the door.
进入病房，李艳告诉老人，他老伴的情况确实很严重，前期做了哪些治疗，“阿姨抢救无效去世了，但请您放心，阿姨走得很安详，没有任何痛苦。
Into the ward, Li Yan told the old man, his wife's situation is indeed very serious, what treatment has been done in the early days, "Auntie rescue dead, but you can rest assured, aunt walked peacefully, no pain.
”老人哭得伤心，李艳看着揪心，甚至有些内疚，“在最后的时刻，都没能让他们住在一个房间里。
"The old man cried, Li Yan looked at the heart, even a little guilty," at the last moment, did not let them live in a room.
”李艳还撒了一个谎，老人问她，妻子留下什么话没有。
Li Yan also told a lie. The old man asked her if she had left anything behind.
其实老太太走得很突然，很快陷入了昏迷，但李艳还是强弩着说：“阿姨说了，让您好好活着，让您能够代替他继续活下去。
In fact, the old lady walked very suddenly, soon fell into a coma, but Li Yan still strong said: "Auntie said, let you live well, so that you can continue to live instead of him.
”“全副武装”出门购物的武汉市民2月3日：“好像一个逃兵”表妹介绍我认识了她在武汉的同学程晓，他们一起读的医科，两年前程晓从武汉一家三甲医院的感染科辞职了。
"Armed" to go shopping in Wuhan February 3: "Like a deserter" cousin introduced me to her classmates in Wuhan, Cheng Xiao, they read together in the medical science, two years ago xiao xiao from an infection section of a three-A hospital in Wuhan resigned.
程晓说自己从来没对医生这个职业有过太多向往，上班以后也不喜欢做实验、发论文。
Ms. Cheng says she has never had too much of a career as a doctor and doesn't like doing experiments or handing out papers after work.
疫情爆发，身边好多人说他“逃过一劫”，但程晓心里不舒服，有种当“逃兵”的感觉。
The outbreak of the outbreak, a lot of people around him said he "escaped a robbery," but Cheng Xiao is uncomfortable, when a "deserter" feeling.
他解释说，这和职业荣誉感无关，只是科室的同事以前对他很好，“这个时候，我应该跟在乎的人在一起。
'This has nothing to do with professional pride, 'he explains.' It's just that colleagues in the department used to be nice to him.
”每天都能收到以前同事从医院传来的消息，发热门诊挂号量又翻了几倍、又有哪些医生护士被隔离了，程晓想做点什么，他加入了志愿小组，负责审核募集来的医疗用品，还去问了以前的科室主任，作为普通人，能不能回到隔离病房值班。
Every day he received word from his former colleagues at the hospital that the number of registered fever clinics had doubled, that doctors and nurses were being quarantined, and that Cheng wanted to do something about it.
程晓还跟我说起了他的舅舅，春节之后，老人先是感冒了几天，接着又咳嗽憋气，因为担心交叉感染，一直没去医院看病。
Cheng Xiao also told me about his uncle. After the Spring Festival, the old man first had a cold for a few days and then coughed and suffocated.
程晓从小和舅舅的感情很好，舅舅以前是个老师，退休后又去给别人讲课，他喜欢舅舅博学又随性的处事方式。
Cheng Xiao had a good relationship with his uncle, who used to be a teacher and went to give lectures after retirement. He liked his uncle's erudite and casual manner.
2月6日：能拉回来一个是一个早上9点接班，李艳听说有个病人病情加重，供氧面罩开到最大，血氧饱和度也只有七八十，病人时不时昏迷、大小便失禁。
February 6: Can pull back one morning is a 9: 00 shift, Li Yan heard that a patient is worse, oxygen mask to the maximum, blood oxygen saturation is only 70, patients from time to time unconscious, incontinence.
李艳给ICU打电话，联系床位，强调这个病人有抢救的价值。
Li Yan called the ICU, contacted the bed, stressed that the patient has rescue value.
等她换好防护服，进入病房，正赶上护士在喊：“有医生么？有医生么？”在喷溅了一地咖啡色的血性物质后，病人又昏迷了，心率飙到了167次，因为极度缺氧，身体是紫绀色的。
When she had changed her suit and entered the ward, the nurse was on the point of calling out: "Is there a doctor? Is there a doctor?" After spilling a coffee-colored blood substance, the patient lapsed into a coma with a heart rate of 167 times because of extreme anoxia and cyanosis.
李艳想赶紧建立一条静脉通路，为后面注入抢救药物做准备。
Li Yan wanted to set up a vein to prepare for the injection of resuscitation drugs.
病人一直吃得很少，血管不好找，几名积水潭医院的护士先是在大脚趾的边缘找到了一根血管，刚注入了呼吸兴奋剂，针就鼓了。
The patient had been eating very little and his blood vessels were not good to find. Several nurses at the Water Pool Hospital first found a blood vessel at the edge of their big toe.
几名护士几乎趴在了病人身上，想赶紧再找到一条通路。
Several nurses nearly got down on the patient, trying to find another way out.
谁也不知道会不会再次发生喷溅，那是等级最高的感染风险之一。
No one knows if there will be another spatter, which is one of the highest levels of infection.
护目镜里是模糊的水气，李艳只能勉强看见病人的模样，她到最后都不知道，护士们是怎么在手腕上又找到了一根血管。
The goggles were foggy, Li Yan could only barely see the patient's appearance, she finally did not know how the nurses found a blood vessel on their wrists.
来不及测血气，李艳只能靠临床经验推测病人是因为缺氧导致了酸中毒，碳酸氢钠打了进去。
Without time to measure blood gas, Li Yan can only rely on clinical experience to speculate that the patient is suffering from hypoxia resulting in acidosis, sodium bicarbonate hit.
过了会儿，病人恢复了意识，ICU也传来消息，有床位了。
After a while, the patient regained consciousness, the ICU also sent word that there was a bed.
“缺了哪一环，这个人可能都挺不过来了”，李艳说，这样的场面几乎每天都在病房里发生，就和战场一样，躲着枪林弹雨，能拉回几个病人，就拉回几个。
"This person may not be able to make it through the missing link," Li Yan said. Such scenes happen almost every day in the hospital room, just like in the battlefield, hiding from gunfire, can pull back a few patients, and then pull back a few.
李艳和陈洪云 摄影/高曌2月7日：善意的疏远协和西院需要将床位增加到800张，再次扩容病区，这件事让医疗队院感组头疼了几天。
Li Yan and Chen Hongyun photo / Gao name Feb. 7: The medical team has been struggling for days with the well-intentioned estranged Concorde West Courtyard, which needs to increase its bed capacity to 800 beds.
在传染病医院，院感防控部门对诸多事项有着“一票否决权”。
In an infectious disease hospital, the hospital has a "one-vote veto" on a number of issues.
但在疫区，制度之外还要考量人力和资源的制约。
But in the epidemic area, outside the system also has to consider the human and resource constraints.
到今天为止，北京医疗队已经开设了8楼、10楼、12楼三个病区，累计收治病人155人。
To date, the Beijing Medical Team has opened three sick areas on the 8th, 10th and 12th floors, with a cumulative total of 155 patients.
医护人员交接班、穿戴防护装备都在清洁区进行。
The transfer of medical staff and the wearing of protective equipment are carried out in the cleaning area.
为了扩容，院感组最后想到的办法是缩减清洁区数量，三个病区共用一个清洁区。
To expand the capacity, the hospital team finally thought of a way to reduce the number of clean areas, the three areas shared a clean area.
面对增加的风险，院感组要求所有队员，把同伴都当作潜在的“疑似病例”，一些善意的“疏远”出现在了我身边。
Confronted with the increased risk, the Academy asked all the players to treat their peers as potential "suspected cases," and some friendly "estrangement" appeared beside me.
采访完护士陈洪云，摄影记者要给她拍照片，我提出帮陈洪云拿着外套，被她拒绝了，“别碰了，我进过病房了，对你们不好。
After interviewing the nurse Chen Hongyun, the photographer wanted to take a picture of her. I offered to help Chen Hongyun take a coat.
”上楼的时候，陈洪云又提出来自己再等一趟电梯，说的还是那句：“我进过病房了。
"As he went upstairs, Chen Hongyun asked to wait for another elevator, saying the same thing:" I was in the hospital room.
”我们不想搞得这么生分，执意让陈洪云也进了电梯。
We didn't want to get into this mess and insisted that Chen Hongyun get into the elevator as well.
在里面，她还是和我们保持着距离，直到我们走出电梯，她才按下了自己的楼层。
Inside, she kept us at arm's length until we got out of the elevator before she pressed her floor.
2月8日：进发热门诊程晓突然告诉我，他和表妹陪着舅舅到了一家医院的发热门诊。
Feb. 8: Ching Xiao into the fever clinic told me that he and his cousin accompanied my uncle to a hospital fever clinic.
舅舅的病情在凌晨突然加重，不仅有肺炎的症状，神智也不清楚，嘴都歪了。
Uncle's illness in the early morning suddenly aggravated, not only pneumonia symptoms, mental not clear, mouth is distorted.
前一天晚上，我和程晓刚聊过进入发热门诊的危险，但里面还是有很多陪护的家属，我俩最后的结论是，因为有在乎的人在里面。
The night before, Cheng and I had talked about the dangers of entering a hot clinic, but there were many accompanying family members, and we had concluded that there was someone inside who cared.
我问程晓的防护措施怎么样，他说有师姐给了医用N95口罩，但因为出门急，他忘了拿泳镜。
I asked Cheng how the protective measures, he said that a teacher gave a medical N95 mask, but because of the urgency of going out, he forgot to take swimming glasses.
程晓跟我说了在发热门诊的见闻，一辆出租车下来了两个老人，一个婆婆搀着一个几乎瘫在地上的爷爷，喊了几声都没人过来帮忙。
Cheng Xiao told me about the experience in the fever clinic, a taxi down two old people, a mother-in-law and a grandfather almost collapsed on the ground, cried a few voices no one came to help.
程晓正要上去，一个陪床的男家属抢先了一步，一边斥责着人们的冷漠、一边把爷爷背了进去。
Cheng Xiao is about to go up, a male family members with the bed preempted a step, while reprimanding people's apathy, while grandpa carried in.
程晓还遇见了两个大学同学，都穿着防护服，他认出了两个人的眼睛。
Cheng Xiao also met two college students, all wearing protective clothing, he recognized the eyes of the two men.
一个是血液科医生，现在成了程晓舅舅的管床大夫，还有一个是眼科医生，现在负责统计核酸检测结果。
One is a haematologist, now Uncle Cheng Xiao's bed-keeper, and another is an ophthalmologist, who is now responsible for counting nucleic acid tests.
武汉街头穿防护服的行人2月9日：天枰的两端下午，医疗队几个病区接到通知，协和西院要将一部分好转的患者转到其他医院，腾出新的床位。
Wuhan Wear protective clothing pedestrians February 9: On the two sides of the hospital afternoon, several medical teams were notified, Concorde West hospital to transfer some of the patients to other hospitals to make room for new beds.
血氧饱和度、基础病史和年龄，都是考量的标准，对照着病历，李艳报出了几个床号。
Blood oxygen saturation, basic medical history and age, are all considered criteria, compared to medical records, Li Yan reported a number of beds.
这并不是一个容易的过程，如果在平时，医生们轻易不会让刚好转的病人经历转院的波折。
This is not an easy process if, in normal times, doctors simply do not allow patients who are just getting better to go through the turmoil of hospital transfers.
但现在是“战时”状态，李艳告诉我一个叫“检伤分类”的概念，好像战场上用不同颜色的布条标记不同伤情的士兵，医生也要快速依据患者的病情做出决断。
But now that it's "wartime," Li Yan tells me about a concept called "injury classification," as if soldiers are marked with different colors of cloth on the battlefield, and doctors make quick decisions based on the patient's condition.
在我看着医生们确定转院患者名单的时候，程晓给我发来消息，他舅舅正等待着协和西院空出的床位。
As I watched the doctors confirm the transfer list, Cheng sent me word that his uncle was waiting for the bed to be vacated in the Concorde West courtyard.
舅舅已经确诊了新冠肺炎，并且陷入昏迷状态，医生建议最好找到ICU的床位。
My uncle had been diagnosed with Newcomial Pneumonia and was in a coma. Doctors advised finding an ICU bed.
程晓先把舅舅转到了发热门诊的留观病房，因为周围人都在说，住进这里可以优先转往协和西院。
Cheng first transferred his uncle to the hospice ward at the fever clinic because people around him were saying they could be transferred to the Concorde Ward on a priority basis.
程晓给上学时带过他的教授打去电话，那边也很为难，说前几天帮别人找床位刚被拒绝。
Cheng called the professor who had taken him to school, and it was difficult to find someone else's bed the other day.
这一天，我好像看到了天枰的两端。
That day, I seemed to see a scale.
2月10日：病房里的陪护程晓告诉我，昨天晚上，舅舅终于住进了协和西院，他和表妹也跟进去陪护了。
Feb. 10: The escort in the ward, Cheng Dao, told me that my uncle had finally moved into the Concorde Ward last night and that he and his cousin had followed.
出来后，他们会主动去隔离。
When they come out, they will go into isolation.
他解释说，舅舅住的是其他医疗队负责的普通病房，没有ICU那么充足的护理人员，“但他已经昏迷了，身边离不开人。
He explained that he lived in a regular ward run by other medical teams and did not have the ICU's full nursing staff, "but he was unconscious and could not live without people.
”“你们有防护服么？”程晓不知道是在安慰我还是安慰自己，说他们有口罩和充足的手套，“我们不知道要在里面待多久，很难做到一直穿着防护服，意义不大。
"Do you have protective clothing?" Cheng wondered if she was comforting me or comforting herself with masks and adequate gloves. "We don't know how long we're going to be inside, it's hard to keep wearing protective clothing and it doesn't make much sense.
”我表妹也知道了程晓进病房的事，她给我发来一张照片，是他们几个同学新年时在武汉见面的合影。
"My cousin also learned about Cheng Xiaojin's ward, and she sent me a picture of her classmates meeting in Wuhan on New Year's Day.
他们去听了一场演唱会，就在协和西院旁边的体育中心里，那里现在已经改建成了一所方舱医院。
They went to a concert in the sports centre next to the Concorde West Courtyard, which has now been converted into a cabin hospital.
医护人员准备把患者的盒饭送进病房2月11日：心理曲线唐子人每天都会在医疗队联络群里转发一首歌曲，他相信音乐给人的力量。
The Tangzi, who relays a song from his medical team every day, believes in the power of music.
转发2003年那首《手牵手》时，他说在非典值班时，总会听这首歌。
Forwarding the 2003 book Hand in Hand, he said that when SARS was on duty, he would listen to the song.
这些都是来自非典时期的经验。
These are lessons from the SARS era.
2003年在非典病房里的日子，唐子人经历过最初的紧张，两周后逐渐平复，到了一个多月后，疲惫、孤独、焦虑再次出现。
In 2003, when they were in the SARS ward, the Tang people experienced initial stress and gradually recovered after two weeks. After more than a month, fatigue, loneliness and anxiety returned.
有的病人，上午他还说过话、下午床位就空了，他打开电视想放松下来，里面铺天盖地都是疫情的新闻。
Some patients, he said in the morning, the bed was empty in the afternoon, he turned on the TV to relax, the inside is full of news of the epidemic.
他还听说，因为自己的原因，没有人敢和母亲坐一趟电梯。
He also heard that no one dared take an elevator with his mother because of his own reasons.
类似的事情也发生在现在。
Something similar is happening now.
95后护士张俊总会想起之前护理过的那个老人，老人按呼叫铃的次数特别多，大都是换尿袋这类护理上的需要。
After 95 nurses Zhang Jun always thought of the old man who had nursed before, and the old people rang the bell more often, mostly because of the need of such care as changing urine bag.
一趟趟跑过去，张俊很高兴，病人有需要、能交流，就说明精神头还不错。
A trip to the past, Zhang Jun is very happy, patients need, can communicate, that the spirit is not bad.
俩人最后一次说话的时候，老人让张俊把一些水果拿到离自己更近的椅子上。
The last time the two talked, the old man asked Zhang Jun to take some fruit to the chair closer to him.
张俊隔天再去值班的时候，床位上换了人，老人已经走了，新来的病人正需要抢救。
When Zhang Jun went on duty the next day, the bed was changed, the old man had left and the new patient was in need of rescue.
张俊心里不是滋味，她平时在北京胸科医院结核科工作，也见过病人离去，但病程发展会比较慢，大多能有个心理准备。
Zhang Jun, who usually works in the tuberculosis department of Beijing Chest Hospital, has also seen patients leave, but the course of illness will be slow, most of them can have psychological preparation.
2月12日：死亡病例讨论每组交接班时，都要通报病房内的变化，XX加重了、XX走了，一些床号被报出来的时候，接班医生会露出惊讶的表情。
Feb. 12: Deaths Discuss the changes in the ward as each shift is discussed. XX increases and XX leaves. When some bed numbers are reported, the doctor on the shift looks surprised.
医疗队一位有着几十年临床经验的医生告诉我，以他曾经的经验，看到病人的化验结果、影像学和既往病史后，大概率能估计出病人未来几天的身体走向。
A doctor with decades of clinical experience with a medical team told me that, based on his previous experience, seeing the patient's laboratory results, imaging, and past medical history, he was able to estimate the patient's physical development over the next few days.
但在新冠肺炎多变的病程中，一些他原本抱有希望的病人，恶化程度还是超出了预想，“特别是那些六七十岁走了的，这不是一个很大的年龄。
But in the changing course of his pneumonia, some of his hopeful patients have deteriorated beyond expectations, "especially those who left in their sixties and seventies, which is not a great age."
”只能从现有病例寻找更多的线索，在一场12层病区的讨论会上，5名近期去世的患者成为了讨论的对象。
"More clues can only be gleaned from existing cases, and in a 12-storey seminar, five recently deceased patients became the subject of discussion.
五名患者都是老年人，入院时病情较重。
All five patients were elderly and were hospitalized in serious condition.
在去世之前，他们经历了血氧饱和度的突然下降。
Before they died, they experienced a sudden drop in blood oxygen saturation.
一名协和医院本地医生回忆，其中一名患者去世前曾去过卫生间，“结果发现他在里面已经有些意识不清了。
A local doctor at Concorde Hospital recalled that one of the patients had been to the restroom before he died and found that he had lost some consciousness inside.
”世纪坛医院领队丁新民认为这是一个很关键的线索，在随后的梳理发现，五名患者有三人都在去世前去过卫生间。
"Ding Xinmin, a team leader at Shijitan Hospital, said this was a crucial clue, and a subsequent grooming revealed that three of the five patients had used the restroom before they died.
丁新民分析，新冠肺炎患者对氧气支持的需求很大，去卫生间需要摘掉氧气面罩，也耗费体力。
Ding Xinmin analysis, the new crown pneumonia patients to oxygen support demand is very large, to go to the toilet needs to remove oxygen mask, also consume physical strength.
即使有的病人抵触，必要时，还是要坚决使用尿管。
Even if some patients resist, if necessary, still want to resolutely use the ureter.
医生对患者CT影像进行讨论2月13日：送战友下午，北京医疗队病区迎来了4名确诊患者出院，其中一位是武汉一家医院的护士，唐子人要来送送。
Doctors Discuss CT Images Feb. 13: Send a comrade-in-arms afternoon, the Beijing Medical Team welcomed four confirmed patients out of the hospital, one of which is a nurse from Wuhan, Tang Zi people to deliver.
除了一个寓意平安的苹果，唐子人还递过去了一个信封，上面写着“不畏生死赴疆场，风雨同舟迎彩虹”，里面装着几名医疗队员凑的慰问金。
In addition to an apple with a message of peace, the Tang Zi handed over an envelope with the words, "Go to the battle field despite death and storm to greet the rainbow.
护士想要推托，又被唐子人挡了回去，“你们很不容易，我对你们保有敬意。
"The nurse tried to avoid it, but the Tang Dynasty stopped her." You are not easy, I respect you.
”17年前，唐子人参与接诊了朝阳医院首名非典病人，“毒力”很强。
"Seventeen years ago, the Tang people attended the first SARS patient in Chaoyang Hospital, and the" virulence "was strong.
两三天后，他身边开始有同事发烧，进而有20多名医护人员感染。
Two or three days later, he began to have a fever around his colleagues, and more than 20 health care workers became infected.
看着身边的战友倒下，唐子人说，那种恐惧无法用语言形容。
Watching the fallen comrade-in-arms around him, Tang Zi said, that fear can not be described as words.
“就像战争电影里一样，冲锋的时候，是一种应激状态，激素分泌旺盛，你挨了一枪，可能当时都没感觉。
"Just like in war movies, charging is a stressful situation in which hormones are secreted and you get a shot that you probably didn't feel at all.
等你冷静下来的时候，才发现身上有一个大口子，弹片在里面。
When you calm down, only to find a large body cut, shrapnel inside.
”后来的日子里，唐子人还梦到过在隔离病房的日子，但都不是噩梦。
Later in the day, the Tang Dynasty dreamt of living in an isolation ward, but none of them were nightmares.
只有一次，他路过北京9名非典时期牺牲医务人员的纪念碑，独自在那里凭吊了很久。
Only once did he pass a memorial to nine SARS-era medical workers in Beijing, where he hung himself for a long time.
2月13日：插管清洁区的办公室里，十几名医生和护士正激烈的讨论着，每个人都要提高嗓门，才能让别人听清。
Feb. 13: A dozen doctors and nurses at the office of the intubated cleanup area are having a heated discussion. Everyone needs to raise their voices to be heard.
为了提高对危重患者的抢救效果，北京医疗队的三个病区将开始插管，使用有创呼吸机。
In order to improve the rescue effect of critically ill patients, three medical teams in Beijing will begin to intubate, using invasive breathing machines.
这个决定带来一连串的改变：病区要腾出一间病房作为专门的抢救室；护士的班次需要调整，有两个人专职负责插管病人的护理；还有筹措呼吸机和配件的问题，一般三甲医院拥有的呼吸机，不过几十台而已。
The decision led to a series of changes: one ward in the sick area was set aside for specialized emergency rooms; the nurses' shift needed to be adjusted to have two people dedicated to the care of patients undergoing intubation; and the problem of raising ventilators and accessories, the breathing apparatus owned by a general triple A hospital, but only a few dozen.
来武汉之前，李艳就把队员分成“普通”和“监护”两组，但她没想到，最后会把普通病房改造成监护室，进行插管病人的护理。
Before coming to Wuhan, Li Yan divided the members into two groups: "ordinary" and "ward," but she did not expect that eventually the general ward will be transformed into a care unit for patients undergoing intubation.
这与协和西院现有的ICU资源有关，重症监护室只有20张左右的床位，哪些危重病人可以进入，一度是需要反复权衡的问题。
This was related to the availability of ICU resources in the Concorde West Court, which had only about 20 beds, and which critically ill patients were once the subject of much rebalancing.
插管让李艳最担心的还是防护问题，病人开放气道，管路连接到肺部，随时可能发生喷溅。
Intubation let Li Yan most worried about the problem of protection, patients open airways, pipes connected to the lungs, ready to spatter.
原则上，传染病监护必须是负压病房，新风系统不断将有病毒的空气排出去，但现有条件，能做的只有开窗通风。
In principle, infectious disease surveillance must be a negative pressure ward, and the fresh air system constantly drains out the air with the virus, but all that can be done is open windows for ventilation.
医护人员将装运遗体的袋子拿进病房2月14日：黄色的袋子昨天临近半夜，程晓告诉我，舅舅走了。
The doctors and nurses took the body bag into the hospital room Feb. 14, 2004.The yellow bag was near midnight yesterday, and Cheng told me that my uncle had gone.
进入隔离病房以后，程晓一直不想用医生的思维去考虑舅舅的病情，怕哭出来影响陪护，也影响表妹的心情。
After entering the isolation ward, Cheng Xiao has not wanted to use the doctor's thinking to consider the uncle's illness, afraid to cry out to affect escort, but also affect the cousin's mood.
昨天早上，舅舅有了消化道出血的症状，到了晚上出现了“点头呼吸”，这是很多病人临终前的征兆，每次吸气头都会向后仰。
Yesterday morning, my uncle had gastrointestinal bleeding symptoms, in the evening there was a "nod of breath," this is the end of many patients before the symptoms, every time the head will tilt back.
程晓想起来，舅舅第二天要作为疑难病例，请各病区的专家一起讨论，他知道这需要花费很大精力去准备，就去找了医生，“人可能不行了，你们恐怕要换个病例了。
He knew it would take a lot of effort to prepare, so he went to the doctor. "I'm afraid you'll have to change the case
”舅舅的高压掉到了只有七八十，医生问要不要插管，程晓和表妹犹豫，舅舅以前说过，不喜欢像那样瘫在床上。
Uncle Henry's pressure had fallen to only seventy or eighty, and the doctor asked if he wanted an intubation. Chenxiao hesitated with his cousin, who had said before that he did not like to sit in bed like that.
等程晓再回到病房里，舅舅没有动静了，心率只有17。
When Cheng returned to the ward, his uncle did not stir. His heart rate was only 17.
他在里面待了会儿，出来后说，可以做心电图了。
He stayed inside for a while, then came out and said that he could do an electrocardiogram.
这只有当过医生的人才会知道，医院要用这种方式，为停止心跳的病人留档。
Only a doctor would know that the hospital would keep a file for patients who had stopped their heartbeats in this way.
临近午夜，程晓和表妹帮着护士，把舅舅装进写着“祭”字的黄色袋子。
Toward midnight, Cheng Xiao and her cousin helped the nurse by packing his uncle into a yellow bag with the word "sacrifice."
殡仪馆的人来了以后，要求在外面又套了一层袋子，才把遗体拉走。
When the undertaker's man arrived, he asked for another coat of sack to be placed outside before the body was taken away.
程晓和表妹联系社区，提出作为密接人员隔离，但社区说找不到车，两人又回病房里待了一夜。
Chenxiao contacted the community and offered to be quarantined as a secret service, but the community said it could not find a car.
第二天，我给程晓的防护服终于派上了用场，一位在西院值班的同学主动拉他和表妹去了隔离点，车上，三个人都穿上了防护服。
The next day, I finally came into use for Cheng Xiao's protective clothing, a West Court duty student took the initiative to pull him and his cousin to the isolation point, the car, all three wearing protective clothing.
2月15日：战争的感觉开始护理插管病人后，王长亮和阮征都戴上了防护面屏。
Feb. 15: The feelings of war began to care for the intubation patients, Wang Changliang and Ruan Zheng put on the protective screen.
接下来的几个小时里，他们要定时为插管病人翻身、吸痰、更换尿袋。
For the next few hours, they regularly roll over, suck and change urine bags for patients undergoing intubation.
当他俩再次走出来的时候，两周来，第一次对着我的镜头比出了胜利的手势。
As they walked out again, for the first time in two weeks, they made a triumphant gesture toward my camera.
为了保证病人的营养和药物供给，病房里开始进行深静脉穿刺，这是唐子人在急诊室的常规操作，但在戴了四层手套之后，他连用酒精棉消毒都试了几次。
To ensure sustenance and medication, the ward began to perform deep vein puncture, a routine for the Tang people in the emergency room, but after wearing four layers of gloves, he tried disinfecting alcohol cotton several times.
他能依靠的只有肌肉记忆，进针时抵向锁骨，然后回撤，再抬高针尾，紧贴锁骨下缘负压进针，暗红色的静脉血流了出来，“还行，一次成了！”北京医疗队的大部分护士都投入到了对插管病人的护理中，其他病房的护理工作需要协和西院补充新的人手。
All he could rely on was muscle memory, pushing the needle back into the clavicle, pushing the needle back up, pressing the needle close to the underside of the clavicle, and bleeding the dark red vein.
一队西院本部的护士被调了过来，她们看上去都很年轻。
A party of nurses from the west courtyard home was transferred, and they all looked young.
护士长带她们熟悉了穿脱防护服的流程后，又让马上进去值班的人，把几名新来的护士也带到隔离病房里，“先进去待一个小时，看看。
After familiarizing themselves with the procedure for wearing protective clothing, the head nurse asked the person immediately on duty to take the new nurses to the isolation ward.
”这是我第一次感到，这就是一场战争。
It was the first time I felt that this was a war.
拼杀到最激烈的时候，补充进来的，只剩下那些年轻的新兵。
At the height of the fight, only the young recruits were added in.
我把这个感觉告诉了李艳，她很赞同护士长的做法。
I told Li Yan the feeling and she agreed with the head nurse.
她用那部即将上映的电影《1917》跟我打比方，一战的炮火中，两个年轻的士兵要穿过敌人的战壕，去传递一份重要的情报。
She used the analogy of the upcoming film 1917, in which two young soldiers had to pass through enemy trenches to deliver an important piece of information.
“他们一开始可能没有什么阅历、理想，但在看到战友的倒下，看到残酷的一面后，他们也就完成了自己的蜕变。
"They may not have had much experience or ideals at first, but when they see a fallen comrade-in-arms and a cruel side, they accomplish their own transformation.
”一位出院患者拿着医疗队员送上的苹果和祝福2月19日：骑车50分钟换来的床位协和西院一次出院了31位患者，吴汉生是里面最兴奋的那个人。
A patient discharged from the hospital with apples and good wishes from a medical team Feb. 19 was discharged from the 50-minute Bed Concorde West Hospital, where Wu is the most excited person.
病房里的医生护士都被防护服挡住了面孔，吴汉生记住了他们的声音，人群中说上几句话，他就叫出了每个人的名字。
The doctors and nurses in the ward were covered with protective clothing, and Wu remembered their voices. After a few words in the crowd, he called out everyone's name.
吴汉生手里攥着几页纸的感谢信，他在上面写着，“来之前感觉自己像个无家可归的人，来到协和西院后，感受家就在这里！”其实吴汉生的家就在汉阳区，只是他半个多月没回去过了。
Wu Hansheng was holding a few pages of a thank-you note in his hand, on which he wrote, "I felt like a homeless man before coming to the Concorde Ward Home is right here!
他在1月25日开始发烧，社区给了张酒店房卡，让他去那里隔离。
He had a fever on January 25, and the community gave him a hotel room card to quarantine him there.
酒店的停车场每天要收50元停车费，吴汉生有点生气，做完核酸检测那天，他把车停回了家。
Wu was a bit angry that the hotel parking lot charged $50 a day, so he pulled back home the day he finished the nucleic acid test.
几天后，吴汉生拿到了阳性的检测结果。
A few days later, Wu got the positive test results.
2月初，宾馆的房间里，吴汉生高烧38度多，吃片退烧药，能降半度，他不敢去刷牙，从床边走到卫生间的力气都没有，痰里还带着血。
At the beginning of February, Wu Hansheng had a high fever of more than 38 degrees. He took a piece of antipyretic and was able to reduce it by half a degree.
他打电话问各种部门，什么时候能去医院，答复都是等待、等待、等待。
He called various departments and asked when they would be able to go to the hospital.
吴汉生给老婆发了段视频，告诉她房产证这些贵重物品放在了哪，还嘱咐说，如果自己走了，骨灰要么洒在汉阳区的墨水湖，要么撒在前年刚去世的母亲墓碑旁。
Wu sent a video to his wife telling her where the valuables were and instructing her that if she left, the ashes should either be sprinkled on the ink lake in Hanyang or next to the tombstone of his mother, who had died the year before.
2月5日早上6点，还是没人安排转诊，吴汉生不想再等了，他说自己是骑了53分钟共享单车，到协和西院碰碰运气。
At 6 a.m. on February 5, no referral was made and Wu said he had taken 53 minutes to share his bicycle and try his luck at the Concorde West Court.
怕我不信，他把APP截图也发了过来。
Afraid I wouldn't believe him, he sent me a screenshot of the APP.
那天吴汉生真的住进了病房，他后来才知道，恰好有位老人去世，空出来张床位。
Wu Han-sheng was admitted to the ward that day. He found out later that an old man had just died, leaving a bed open.
2月21日：一罐蛋白粉认识王利强，是因为我看见了他在父母住进8层病区时，写下的那份《承诺书》。
February 21: A jar of protein powder known Wang Liqiang, because I saw his parents live in the eight-storey area, wrote the Deed of Commitment.
“如果父母在住院期间出现紧急情况，我们希望不采取激进的抢救措施......我们相信父母在人生的最后时刻也不愿意占用过多的公共医疗资源，无愧他们这平凡又伟大的一生。
"If our parents are in an emergency while they are in hospital, we want to take no radical measures to save them... We believe that parents are not willing to take up too much public health care resources at the last minute of their lives and deserve their ordinary and great life.
”几天前我第一次给王利强打去电话，那头的声音很疲惫，他说不想多谈什么，“我父亲已经走了。
"I called Wang Liqiang the first time a few days ago, but the voice at the other end was very tired.
”王利强的父母这些年神智不太清楚，需要一级护理，一直住在养老院里，王利强推测，感染应该也是发生在那里。
Wang's parents, who had been mentally ill for years and needed first-degree care, had been living in a nursing home, where Wang speculated the infection should have occurred.
他说写下承诺书，与历来的家教有关，“如果我父亲头脑还清楚的话，也坚决不会让我们给社会带来太大麻烦的。
He said that the Deed of Commitment had something to do with traditional tutoring. "If my father had a clear head, he was determined not to let us cause too much trouble for society.
”父亲以前是教育系统的局级干部，对子女要求很严格，“别说上学这些事了，我们连他的公车都没坐过一次。
The father, a former director of the education system, was very strict with his children, saying "let alone going to school, we haven't even once sat on his bus.
”我俩第二次通话时，王利强想拜托我件事，他的妹妹也住进了8层病区，他想让我给医生带个话，多照顾一些。
The second time we spoke, Wang wanted to beg me to do something. His sister, who was also in the eight-storey ward, wanted me to give the doctor a message and take more care of him.
王利强这些年一直生活在北京，父母没住进医院的时候，怕家里的阿姨感染，妹妹贴身护理了老人四天四天，只睡了六个小时，他觉得很对不起妹妹。
Wang Liqiang has been living in Beijing these years, parents did not live in the hospital, afraid of the infection of the aunt at home, sister closely nursing the old man for four days, only six hours of sleep, he felt very sorry for his sister.
我跟王利强说，不用担心医生们的职业态度和责任心，这不是单纯的宽慰，8层病区的肖汉医生，也是一个生活在北京的武汉人。
I told Wang that there was no need to worry about doctors' professional attitude and sense of responsibility. It was not a simple comfort.
肖汉毕业后去了北京，他不光家在武汉，也是在武汉学的医，一些同学比他更早进入了一线，对于这些医科生来说，武汉是一座需要像“祖庭”一样去捍卫的城市，加入医疗队，肖汉不需要更多的理由，“不来，心里过不了那道坎。
For some students, Wuhan, a city that needs to be defended like a Zu Ting, Wuhan is a city that needs to be defended like a Zu Ting. For these medical students, Xiao Han does not need any more reason.
”母亲和很多亲人都在武汉，肖汉和他们一直没见面。
"His mother and many close relatives were in Wuhan, and Xiao Han and they had never met.
家里人想来驻地看看他，远远看几眼也行，想着自己是密接人员，肖汉都拒绝了。
The family wanted to see him at the site, looking at him from a distance, thinking that he was a secret agent, Shawhan refused.
我没告诉王利强，其实在认识他之前，肖汉就跟我说起过他父母在病房里的情况，那些一起住院的夫妻、母女，都让肖汉觉得心里堵的慌。
I did not tell Wang Liqiang, in fact, before he knew him, Shaohan told me about his parents in the ward, those couples hospitalized, mother and daughter, all made Shaohan feel confused.
今天，王利强又打来了电话，我对他的保证得到了应验。
Today, Wang Liqiang called again and my promise to him was fulfilled.
一位医生在查房时带给他妹妹一罐蛋白粉，王利强说，这东西没多贵重，可出现在隔离病房里，让人觉得温暖。
One doctor brought his sister a jar of protein powder while he was checking the room. Wang said it was not expensive and could be found in the isolation ward, which made people feel warm.
两位出院患者向医护人员挥手2月19日：模范病人第一批入院的一个小伙子，被大家看作是一名“模范病人”。
Two discharged patients wave to hospital staff Feb. 19: Model patient The first young man admitted to hospital was considered a "model patient."
小伙子是个博士，开始发烧后，他把爱人和孩子送去了别的住处，又从网上定了很多生活用品，嘱咐快递小哥走远后，才出门去取。
The young man is a doctor, began to have a fever, he loved and children to other places, and ordered a lot of daily necessities from the Internet, ordered express brother to leave, before going out to pick up.
住进医院，小伙子明显做了很多准备，他能看懂一些CT影像，还会就治疗、用药提出很多有针对性的问题，同时也很遵重医生的决定。
In the hospital, the young man obviously did a lot of preparation, he can understand some CT images, he will ask a lot of targeted questions about treatment, medication, and respect for the doctor's decision.
从医生的角度，希望每个患者都能保持头脑冷静，进行顺畅的沟通。
From the doctor's point of view, I hope that every patient can keep a cool head and communicate smoothly.
但在关乎生死的时候，每个人的性格、知识、境遇不同，表现也不一样。
But when it comes to life and death, each person's character, knowledge, circumstances and performance are different.
世纪坛医院领队丁新民一直建议，住院患者少用手机，每天早晚和家人各联系一次就够了。
Xin-min Ding, a team leader at Shiqiantan Hospital, has been advising hospitalized patients to use their mobile phones less often and communicate with their families every morning and evening.
能做到这点的人不多，现代通讯这时候成了把“双刃剑”，接受海量信息的同时，负面情绪无法避免，变得更加惶恐。
Modern communication has become a "double-edged sword." While accepting huge amounts of information, negative emotions become unavoidable and become more fearful.
各种治疗方案也不再是秘密，有家属打来电话，一字一顿说出四个英文字母，问有没有这种设备，医生半天才反应过来，他说的是ECMO；有家属说自己有渠道搞来康复者血浆，想要用在亲人身上；还有一个没康复的患者急着出院，他说女儿在别的医院已经插管了，他想出去献血。
Treatment options are no longer a secret, with family members phoning to say four letters a word, asking if the device was available, the doctor said ECMO; a family member said he had a source of plasma from the convalescent and wanted to use it on their loved ones; and a patient who had not recovered from the hospital said his daughter had been intubated in another hospital.
2月21日：反攻的前夜相比新闻里的数字，唐子人更关心病房里的改变，医疗队的三个病区，死亡率在下降，更多的重症病人在好转。
Feb. 21: Compared with the figures in the news on the night before the counterattack, the Tang Zi people are more concerned about the changes in the wards, the death rate in the three sick areas of the medical team, and more patients in serious condition are getting better.
现在查房，唐子人要说很多话，一个患者可能要连着问他十几分钟的问题，唐子人挺高兴，“人有力气了，才有心思考虑自己的事儿。
Now the Tang Zi people to say a lot of things, a patient may have to ask him a few minutes of questions, the Tang Zi people are very happy, "people have strength, only have the mind to think about their own things.
”护士们也发现了变化，很多病人的口味“越来越高”，食欲恢复了，能尝出咸淡了。
Nurses have also noticed changes, with many patients having "higher and higher" tastes, regained appetite and tasted salty.
一个91岁的老先生，觉得医院盒饭味道太淡，托护士从住地拿些口味重的吃的来。
A 91-year-old gentleman thought the hospital lunch was too light and asked the nurse to bring some heavy food from the living room.
这有点像“反攻的前夜”，李艳已经想好了，有一天她会在工作笔记写上“总攻，斩首行动”，但要写上这几个字，还要再等上一段时间。
It was a bit like "the night before the counter-attack," and Li Yan had already decided that one day she would write "Total Attack, behead" in her notes, but it would be a while before she wrote them down.
刚刚过去的那个小夜班，病房里又是一片忙碌。
The night shift that had just passed was another hectic one in the ward.
李艳先是给一个插管的病人做了深静脉穿刺，接着是一个昏迷的肾衰病人，李艳判断是酸中毒，但暂时做不了血滤，只好找来降钾的药物顶上。
Li Yan first performed a deep vein puncture on an intubated patient, then a coma patient with renal failure. Li Yan judged the acidosis to be acidosis, but was unable to do a blood filter for a while.
忙过一阵，护士突然说，51床的血氧饱和度下来了，那是个病得很重的老人，还总是爱摘掉氧气面罩。
After a while, the nurse suddenly said that the oxygen saturation of the 51 bed was coming down. It was a very sick old man and he always liked to take off the oxygen mask.
过去一看，面罩果然挂在他下巴上。
He went over and saw that the mask was hanging on his chin.
没办法，只好用约束带把老人固定在了床上。
There was no choice but to fasten the old man to his bed with a strap.
夜里12点，51床又出事了。
At 12: 00 in the night, there's another 51 beds.
老人解开约束带，自己下了地，血氧掉到了50多，全身发紫。
The old man untied the strap and went down to the ground. Blood oxygen fell to more than 50.
李艳他们把老人重新弄上床，一时找不来机器插管，一个医生不停捏着氧气面罩下面的储氧袋，20分钟以后，终于把血氧捏回了90以上。
When they got the old man back to bed, they couldn't find the intubate, and a doctor kept pinching the oxygen bag under the oxygen mask for 20 minutes before he finally pinched the oxygen back to over 90.
消毒车驶过后出现的彩虹2月24日：共情从北京来的心理专家说，疫区医护人员要注意“共情”的问题，在跟病人接触中，要站在病人的角度考虑问题，情感反应和病人一样，“但要进得去、出得来，不然对自己影响很大。
2007-3-1 15: 53: 00 Emotional experts from Beijing said doctors and nurses in affected areas should pay attention to the problem of empathy. In their contact with patients, they should consider the problem from the perspective of the patient.
”这件事做起来并不容易。
This was not an easy thing to do.
因为送我口罩那件事，我和王长亮熟络起来。
Wang Changliang and I got acquainted with each other because of the mask thing.
他之前跟我说，隔离病房里，他会给予病人关心照顾，但个人感情上不想离得太近，怕陷进去了。
He had told me that in the isolation ward, he would take care of the patient, but personally he didn't want to be close enough to get involved.
今天，王长亮突然告诉我，他去看了第一批病人里那个妻子在对门去世的老人。
Today, Wang Changliang suddenly told me that he went to see the first group of patients whose wife died opposite the door.
老人正在康复，转到了别的病区，但情绪还是不好。
The old man is recovering and moving to another area, but he is still in a bad mood.
王长亮过去说了句“您得加油啊”，老人没说话，冲他点了点头。
Wang Changliang said "You have to refuel," the old man did not speak, nodded to him.
我问王长亮，不是要保持情感上的距离么，他乐呵呵说了句粗口：“再怎么装X，也改变不了善良的心。
I asked Wang Changliang, is not to maintain emotional distance, he hehe said happily: "No matter how to install X, also can not change the good heart.
”2月25日：重新被审视的亲情离开家快一个月了。
Feb. 25: The re-examined family has been away for almost a month.
丈夫跟阮征说，送行时候之所以哭了，是因为真的害怕了。
The husband told Ruan Zheng that he cried when seeing him off because he was really afraid.
到了武汉，阮征一直没把脱下防护服后的勒痕照片发给丈夫，怕他担心。
In Wuhan, Ruan Zheng did not take off the protective clothing after the strangulation photos sent to her husband, afraid he worried.
阮征终于理解了，当警察的丈夫为什么从来不跟她讲起工作上的事，那种沉默不是疏远，是另一种爱护。
Ruan Zheng finally understood why the police husband never told her about his work. The silence was not estrangement, it was another kind of love.
李艳也从来不和丈夫说隔离病房里的事，联系时，他们交流更多的是孩子。
Li Yan also never told her husband about the isolation ward, when contacted, they communicate more with the children.
李艳心里一直有愧疚，当了快20年医生，李艳追求完美到偏激，希望病房里所有人都活着。
Li Yan heart has been guilty of being a doctor for nearly 20 years, Li Yan pursuit of perfection to extreme, hope that all people alive in the ward.
丈夫说她自私，忘了自己还是个妻子和母亲，她只去开过一次家长会，每次加班，都骗孩子“病房里有个老爷爷流鼻血了”。
The husband said she was selfish and forgot that she was still a wife and mother. She only went to a parent-parent meeting, and every time she worked overtime, she lied to her child, "There's an old grandpa in the ward with a bloody nose."
王长亮一直为儿子的事发愁，总想陪在他身边。
Wang Changliang always worried about his son and always wanted to stay with him.
一直不在家，儿子已经有些不高兴了，跟王长亮说：“你这个丑八怪，不想看见你。
The son has been away from home, has been a bit unhappy, and said to Wang Changliang: "You ugly bastard, do not want to see you.
”最近几天联系，儿子才有了笑脸，他对爸爸有了“需求”，想爸爸赶紧回来，带他去看看大海。
"Only in recent days did my son have a smile. He had a" need "for his father and wanted him to come home and take him to see the sea.
张俊觉得父亲变了，以前两人交流不多，现在每天都想多跟她说点什么。
Zhang Jun thought his father had changed. Before, they didn't talk much. Now they wanted to talk to her more every day.
但父亲还是不太懂和女儿交流的技巧，总是汇报自己每天做了什么、去了哪里，拼命想找些话题。
But he still doesn't know much about the mechanics of communicating with his daughter. He always reports on what he does and where he goes each day, desperately trying to find some topics to talk about.
张俊觉得，那样子特别可爱。
Zhang Jun thinks, that looks particularly lovely.
一批新到岗的医护人员在接受培训2月26日：最后的阵地一位医生估计，就像当年非典时一样，随着疫情被控制，最后的疑难患者将会被收拢到少数几家医院内。
A new group of paramedics are being trained Feb. 26: A doctor at the last position estimates that as the outbreak is brought under control, the final patients will be collected in a few hospitals.
在医疗队的三个病区里，大部分仍然是重症和危重患者。
The majority of the three disease areas of the medical team continue to be seriously ill and critically ill.
一些人除了感染新冠肺炎，还有肾衰、偏瘫、老年痴呆，甚至胸腰椎骨折。
Some people have kidney failure, hemiplegia, Alzheimer's disease, and even thoracolumbar fractures, in addition to new crown pneumonia.
这里，有可能是疫区炮火最后停息的阵地之一。
Here, it is likely to be one of the last positions in the affected areas to stop fire.
大多数人也做好了在这里待上更长时间的准备，二月二那天，医疗队找来师傅给大家理发，因为报名的人太多，又延长了两天。
Most of them were ready to stay longer. On February 2, the medical team sent for a barber, but the enrollment was too high and it was extended by two more days.
三角湖路上，医疗队住地是为数不多总有人进出的地方，这引来了几只流浪猫狗。
On the Triangle Lake Road, where medical teams live in one of the few places that are always frequented, a few stray cats and dogs are attracted.
担心卫生问题，医疗队书记半开玩笑说，过分跟猫狗亲近要被罚做俯卧撑。
Worried about hygiene, the medical team's secretary joked that getting too close to cats and dogs would be punished by doing push-ups.
但每天饭后，还是有队员在门口放下些剩菜，远远地看着它们。
But every day after dinner, some of the players put down some leftovers at the door and watched them from afar.
2月27日：两段人生在酒店隔离的程晓和表妹做完了两次核酸检测，都是阴性。
Feb. 27: Two life in the hotel isolation of Cheng Dao and her cousin have done two nucleic acid tests, both negative.
他俩现在担心的，是一个人在家的舅妈，情绪差到了极点。
What they were worrying about was a single aunt at home, in a most bad mood.
舅妈除了他俩谁的电话都不接，在电话那头总是念叨：他就这么把我们丢下了？什么时候能把骨灰拿回来......程晓想起了舅舅昏迷前，跟自己说的最后一句话，让他去买根拐杖。
At the other end of the line, she would say, "That's what he left us behind.When can he get the ashes back... Chenxiao remembered his uncle's last words to himself before he went into a coma and asked him to buy a crutch.
程晓猜测，舅舅要么真的就是在为回家做准备，要么就是想给自己留个希望。
Mr. Cheng guessed that uncle was either really preparing to go home or trying to leave a message of hope for himself.
再和我通话，吴汉生还是像刚出院时那么兴奋，他正在自家另一套房子里隔离。
On the other hand, Wu was as excited as he had been when he left the hospital. He was isolated in his other house.
去之前，他和妻子隔着十米见了一面，妻子穿着防护服把各种生活用品放到车上，儿子就在后面的楼上，吴汉生坚持没让他下来。
Before he went, he and his wife met 10 meters apart. His wife was wearing protective clothing and putting various things in the car.
吴汉生跟我说起了他的人生经历，最开始是一名公务员，90年代末辞职了，做钢材生意赚了些钱，买了几套房子。
Wu told me about his life experience, starting as a civil servant who quit in the late 1990s to make some money in the steel business and buy some houses.
后来生意不景气，年纪也大了，他去了一家物业公司上班。
Afterward the business depression, also old age, he went to a property company to work.
为了向我证明他说过的一切，一个下午，吴汉生给我发来了十几段视频和照片，里面有他跟儿子的合影，有在宾馆隔离时咳出的血痰，还有去年圣诞节时江汉路的夜景，对着涌动的人群，吴汉生大喊着：“2020年，平平安安，万事如意。
To prove what he had said, Wu handed me a dozen videos and photos one afternoon showing him taking pictures of his son, coughing up blood and phlegm from a hotel seclusion, and last Christmas at Jianghan Road, shouting to the crowd: "2020, safe and sound.
”二月二这天，一位女医疗队员在住地理发2月29日：不想当英雄的人过去的一个多月里，唐子人和李艳，是我听到把当下比作一场战争最多的人。
More than a month ago, Tang Zi and Li Yan were the people I heard comparing the present to the most often fought in a war.
唐子人喜欢看战争电影，熟知历史中的豪杰人物，但他不想成为别人眼中的英雄，他说自己来武汉就是救人，他更信奉一家医学研究所墙上的那句犹太谚语，“救一个人，就等于救了全世界。
He said he came to Wuhan to save lives. He believed in the Jewish proverb on the wall of a medical institute. "To save a man is to save the whole world.
”李艳也不想当英雄，她只有普通人最朴素的那种想法，“早点结束这场战役，赶快回家。
"Li Yan didn't want to be a hero either. She had only the simplest idea of a common person.
”2003年初夏的一天，北京怀柔的一家度假村，李艳和同事们结束了两周的隔离观察期。
One day in early summer 2003, Li Yan and her colleagues ended a two-week quarantine at a resort in Huairou, Beijing.
隔离地点对面就是北京啤酒厂，给他们送来了好多啤酒。
Opposite the quarantined site was the Beer Brewery in Beijing, which brought them a lot of beer.
还有很多出租车赶过来，志愿把他们送回了家。
There were also a lot of taxis that came and volunteered to take them home.
李艳记得，那天很热，她远远就看见，母亲摇着蒲扇，站在楼门口等着自己。
Li Yan remembers that it was a hot day, and she saw her mother waiting for herself at the door of the building, shaking a fan of dandelion.
（文中除医护人员均为化名）【反侵权公告】本文由北京青年报在腾讯新闻独家首发，未经授权，不得转载。
This article is published exclusively by Beijing Youth Daily in Tencent News, and cannot be reproduced without authorization.
3例病理解剖初步诊断完成 死者肺部有黏液性分泌物|深度报道不想成为英雄，只是想不被绝望困住|深度报道送别李文亮医生：愿天堂没有病毒|深度报道。
PRELIMINARY DIAGNOSIS OF 3 CASES Completed with Mucous Exudates AT THE DEEP LIVER Don't want to be a hero, just to avoid despair. & # 160; & # 45; Farewell to Dr. Lee Wenliang: May there be no in-depth reports at & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
战至中局：一支医疗援助队的武汉记忆 | 一线日记。
War to the middle: a first-line diary of a medical aid team.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "北青深一度";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at once.
var msg_title = "战至中局：一支医疗援助队的武汉记忆 | 一线日记";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "医术与人心";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; medicine and people & quot;;
title: '11例病理解剖3例完成初步诊断，死者肺部有黏液性分泌物，输氧治疗需更小心 | 深度聚焦',。
At least 11 cases of pathological anatomy. Three cases completed initial diagnosis. The deceased had mucous discharge from the lungs.
subject_name: '北青深一度',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '29岁武汉女孩封城后的26天：她并不想成为英雄，只是想不被绝望困住｜深度人物',。
Wuhan, 29, was 26 days after it was shut down: She didn't want to be a hero, just not to be hopeless at & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '北青深一度',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '送别李文亮医生：愿天堂不再有病毒 | 深度报道',。
Dr. Li Wenliang: May heaven never again have AT & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '北青深一度',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="北青深一度";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at once.
