开工了，可我没口罩。
It's working, but I don't have a mask.
每日人物                      。
Daily characters.
每日人物。
Daily characters.
轻商业，懂生活。
Light business, understand life.
。
.
The following article comes from AI财经社。
The following article comes from AI Financial Services.
Author AI财经社作者。
Author, Author AI Financial Services.
AI财经社。
AI Financial Services.
中国更有腔调的新商业媒体。
China's new commercial media with a more vocal tone.
。
.
开工前最忧伤的段子可能是，“今天戴着口罩去买口罩，口罩没买到，还损失了一个口罩。
Perhaps the saddest part of the pre-construction period was, "Today I wore a mask to buy a mask, I didn't buy one, and I lost a mask."
”2月10日起，部分企业陆续复工，宅在家里即为国家做贡献的使命宣告终结。
"February 10, some enterprises have resumed work, the home is home to the country's contribution to the end of the mission.
当下的主要矛盾已经转化为企业开工自救与员工口罩供给不足之间的矛盾。
The current major contradiction has been translated into the enterprise start self-help and insufficient supply of staff masks between the contradiction.
一边是线上、药店口罩齐断货，一边是没有口罩不能出现在公共场所，甚至不许乘坐公共交通。
On one side is line, drugstore mask cut off, on the other side is no mask in public places, or even public transport.
这个矛盾该如何解？文 |孙静 麻策编辑 | 赵艳秋封面图 | 来源北京地铁微博复工最大焦虑：没口罩2月10日早上7点半，在北京亮马桥工作的张昊泽捂着N95口罩，走入地铁6号线北运河西站。
At 7: 30 a.m. on February 10, Zhang Haoze, who worked at Liangma Bridge in Beijing, covered his N95 mask and walked to the west of the North Canal Station on Line 6.
往常的早高峰，他会快速挤到车厢中部、在靠近金属支柱的位置放好双脚。
At his usual early peak, he would huddle into the middle of the car and put his feet close to the metal strut.
如果上车速度不够快，被卡在靠近车门位置，简直会是一场灾难——接下来草桥、常营等大站的人流会像沙粒一样，瞬间填满车门两侧空隙，里面的人经常被挤得双脚离地、掏不出手机。
If you don't get in fast enough to get stuck near a car door, it can be a disaster - and then traffic at big stations like straw bridges and permanent camps can fill the gap between the sides of the car door instantaneously, with people often squeezed between their feet and unable to reach their mobile phones.
不过这种场面在首个复工日并未出现。
However, the scene did not appear on the first day of work.
6号线竟然一路都有空座，这让一批兀自忐忑的上班族，感到些许心安。
Line 6 unexpectedly all the way empty seat, this let a group of perturbed office workers, feel a little relieved.
环顾四周车厢，大家都低头着，在口罩之下用力呼吸。
Looking around, everyone bowed their heads and breathed under the mask.
有人戴的是粉色、天蓝色的一次性医用口罩，也有人佩戴的是白色棉布口罩。
Some wore pink, sky-blue disposable medical masks, while others wore white cotton masks.
在上周末公司通知10日复工后，张昊泽所在部门群里就开始涌动着口罩焦虑。
Zhang Haoze, whose department started to mop up with anxiety after the company announced last weekend that it would resume work on the 10th.
一名同事问，家里口罩消耗殆尽，到现在还买不到新的，怎么办？另外一个问，穿雨衣坐地铁会不会被人笑话？其他同事很快安慰他：没关系，反正地铁上的人也不认识你。
A colleague asked him what would happen if he didn't buy a new one after running out of masks at home? Another asked if he would be laughed at if he took the subway in a raincoat.
▲图/ 北京地铁微博在疫情面前，口罩成为个体自救的最后一道屏障。
Map / Beijing Metro Weibo In the face of the epidemic, masks become the last barrier to individual self-help.
但是在医用物资紧缺、一线医护人员都在为口罩、防护服发愁的情况下，复工上班族的焦虑短期内似乎难以纾解。
But with shortages of medical supplies and front-line health workers worried about masks and protective clothing, the anxiety of returning to work seems hard to ease in the short term.
很多人都经历了开工前抢口罩的紧张。
Many people have experienced the stress of getting a mask before starting work.
某4A广告公司文案袁莉说，大年三十当天她还在土耳其旅行，一个经历过非典的北京同事提醒她，赶紧囤口罩、消毒液、除菌洗衣液。
Yuan Li, a copy of a 4A advertising agency, said she was still traveling in Turkey on New Year's Eve. A colleague from Beijing who had experienced SARS reminded her to wash masks, disinfectant and disinfectant, according to Yuan.
她慌忙下单，在京东上买了6个N95，100元；100个一次性口罩，90多元；同时在淘宝上买了40个戴呼吸阀的防雾霾口罩，以及酒精片、护目镜。
She hastily placed an order to buy six N95,100 yuan on Jingdong, 100 disposable masks, over 90 yuan, and 40 respirator-wearing smog masks, as well as alcohol tablets and goggles on Taobao.
到2月10日，除了看起来最无关紧要的护目镜已经到货，其他都是未发货状态。
By 10 February, all but the most insignificant-looking goggles had arrived and the rest were undelivered.
前几天，土耳其导游告诉她，搞到1万个英国产3M口罩，每单最少120个。
The other day, the Turkish tour guide told her that she had 10,000 British-made 3M masks, each containing at least 120.
袁莉下了一单，准备再与同事拼购。
Yuan Li issued a single, ready to co-purchase with colleagues.
消息刚发出，三个同事就认领了70个。
As soon as the news got out, the three colleagues claimed 70.
“我们特意选的不戴呼吸阀的，想着如果自己中招，对别人也是一种保护。
"We purposely chose not to wear a respirator valve, thinking that if we do, it is also a protection for others.
”很多人都为口罩焦虑。
Many people worry about masks.
一个同事特别着急地告诉袁莉，自己每天定点到网易上抢购，但至今仍未成功。
Yuan Li was particularly anxious to tell a colleague that he fixed point to Netease every day snapping up, but so far has not succeeded.
微博上， 一名嘉兴网友在当地实现口罩预约后，特意开了闹钟，无奈总也抢不到，她的老父亲没有口罩，又不能不出去买菜，结果在菜市场被人家指着鼻子骂。
Weibo, a Jiaxing netizen in the local implementation of mask appointment, specially opened the alarm clock, helpless, her old father did not have masks, and can not go out to buy vegetables, the result of the Hallmark people scold.
在杭州，口罩预约信息每天都要重复填写，更是麻烦。
In Hangzhou, the mask booking information has to be repeated every day, is more troublesome.
在上海，一名没戴口罩想要强闯地铁的乘客，直接被行政拘留。
In Shanghai, a passenger who tried to force his way into the subway without a mask was placed in administrative detention.
买不到口罩的人，开始研究各种“硬核”自救。
People who couldn't buy masks began studying all kinds of "hard core" self-help.
有人购买医用无纺布甚至用纸巾，在家自制口罩。
Some people buy medical non-woven cloth or even paper towels, home-made masks.
还有人研究各种延长口罩寿命的办法：比如紫外线消毒、蒸煮或者将使用过的口罩真空封存，搁置7天后再拿出来使用。
Others look at ways to prolong the mask's lifespan: ultraviolet disinfection, cooking, or vacuum sealing a used mask for seven days before putting it up for use.
口罩再生问题甚至惊动了院士。
The rebirth of masks even alarmed the academicians.
据媒体报道，86岁高龄的闻玉梅院士建议研究团队用实验寻找一次性医学口罩的复用对策，结论是以保鲜袋包裹用过的口罩，电热吹风机30分钟后即可重复使用。
Academician Wen Yumei, 86, suggested the team try to find a way to reuse disposable medical masks by experimenting. They concluded that the masks should be wrapped in plastic bags and could be re-used after 30 minutes.
袁莉觉得自己还算幸运的，因为北京雾霾，她还有5个N95口罩存货，或许能扛到土耳其口罩发货。
Yuan Li thinks she is lucky, because Beijing fog haze, she still has 5 N95 mask inventory, perhaps can carry to Turkey mask delivery.
但是开工前她收到两个消息，一好一坏：坏消息是导游的口罩没了，据说4000个口罩在海关被扣——不知真假；好消息是公司通知继续在家办公一周。
The bad news is that the guide's mask is missing and 4,000 face masks are said to have been seized at customs. The good news is that the company has advised to stay at home for another week.
并没有那么幸运的医疗器械行业某员工在微博吐槽，她们早已开工赶货，但同样口罩紧缺，有生产线同事戴的就是纯棉口罩。
Some of the less fortunate employees in the medical equipment industry are tweeting. They are already working on their wares, but there is also a shortage of masks and production-line colleagues wearing pure cotton masks.
她也理解——看起来戴口罩仅仅为了融合大家，不被排斥，反而不是保护自己。
She also understands that wearing a mask seems to be about integrating people, not being ostracized, not protecting themselves.
▲ 图/ 人民日报微博企业复产：有没有口罩都烦恼“口罩现在意味着你能不能开工，开工意味着你能不能挣钱，挣钱意味着你能不能活下去。
Mask now means whether you can start work, whether you can make money or not, making money means you can live or not.
”一名南方企业主告诉AI财经社，企业同样为找口罩犯难。
A southern business owner told AI Financial that businesses were also having trouble finding masks.
在一家企业传给AI财经社的当地政府规定复工材料的清单上显示，复工需要满足口罩、84消毒液、红外式体温枪、消毒洗手液、手套等物资齐全的要求。
According to a list of local government regulations sent by a company to AI Financial Services, returning to work requires a complete supply of masks, disinfectants, infrared thermostats, disinfectant hand sanitizers, gloves, etc.
比如，一个工厂要为员工一天准备两个口罩，开工前要先准备好10天的量。
For example, a factory needs to prepare two masks a day for its employees and a 10-day supply before starting work.
2月3日远程办公后，深圳一家企业的董事长组织管理层天天开远程视频会议，其中一个连续讨论了几天的议题是，怎么为员工抢购口罩。
After a telecommuting session on Feb. 3, the management of a Shenzhen-based company held daily teleconferences, including a day-long discussion on how to snap up masks for employees.
这家企业有上千人，有设计研发人员以及附属工厂。
The company has thousands of people, design developers and ancillary factories.
按照政府的要求，在办公室和工厂复工后，口罩是必须的。
Mask masks are required after office and factory work resumes, as requested by the government.
公司统计了2月10日能正常到办公室报到的员工，发现除了一小部分员工被封在湖北各地以外，还有大约三分之一的员工因为家乡封路回不了深圳。
The company counted the employees who reported to their offices on Feb. 10 and found that about one-third of workers, in addition to a small number of staff, could not return to Shenzhen because their hometown was blocked.
即便如此，员工一人一个口罩，在当前口罩如此紧缺的情况下，依然是一个不小的采购量。
Even so, one-man-a-mask is still a big deal given the current shortage of face masks.
形势本来在朝着乐观的方向走。
The situation was already moving in an optimistic direction.
一名管理层称，公司采购部通过关系，联系了一家口罩厂，对方答应供一部分货。
According to one management, the company's purchasing department contacted a mask factory through contacts, the other side agreed to supply a portion of the goods.
随后董事长告诉大家，他们注册地所在的区政府拿到一批口罩，企业可以申领。
Then the chairman told everyone that the local government where they are registered got a batch of masks, enterprises can apply.
如果申请成功，有望解决一部分需求。
If successful, it is expected to address some of the needs.
但直到2月9日，复工口罩仍没有着落。
However, as of 9 February, the resumption of work masks remained unaccounted for.
就连董事长的心气都有点变了，他在员工群分享了一个链接，大意是在哪些药店可以买到即将空运到深圳的数百万口罩……然后号召员工尽量自己去抢购和准备。
Even the chairman's mood changed when he shared a link with his staff about which drugstores could buy millions of masks to be flown to Shenzhen... and then called on employees to snap up and prepare as much as they could.
因为疫情不明，知识短视频服务商视知在2月7日晚临时决定，再推迟一周复工。
Because the epidemic situation is unknown, short-knowledge video service providers on the night of 7 February provisionally decided to postpone work for another week.
负责人力资源的同事告诉视知创始人兼CEO马昌博，各种同行群都在讨论复工时间问题，看得出大家都很纠结。
Colleagues in charge of human resources told Avec's founder and CEO that the various peer groups were discussing the issue of returning to work, and it was clear that everyone was in a tangle.
马昌博认为，与其让员工别别扭扭到公司上班，不如安心在家办公，特殊时期人最重要。
Rather than sending employees off the hook to the office, Mr. Makambo says, it's better to work from home, especially in special times.
尽管部分业务如拍摄制作和商务洽谈可能会受较大影响。
Although some business such as filming and business negotiations may be affected.
公司层面也在寻找口罩，人力资源部门联系了七八家，就是没有找到合适的渠道，要么发货太晚，要么资质令人生疑。
Companies are also looking for masks, human resources departments contacted seven or eight, but did not find the appropriate channels, or late delivery, or questionable qualifications.
马昌博本人也在朋友圈发起求助，中间有两次付款后也没拿到货。
Mr. Ma himself has called for help in a circle of friends and twice failed to get paid for the goods.
其中一次，对方要求1万个起订，N95口罩价格在20-25元之间，一次性医用口罩约4元一个。
In one case, the other side asked for 10, 000 starting, N95 mask prices in the 20-25 yuan, disposable medical masks about 4 yuan 1.
视知与另外一家企业拼购、付款，但半小时后对方找过来：对不起，被别人抢了，已经没有货了。
The inspection and another enterprise to buy, pay, but half an hour later the other side found: Sorry, was robbed, already out of stock.
他又请在韩国的朋友帮忙采购，好不容易找到货源，结果遇到当地管控，口罩发不过来。
He also asked friends in South Korea to help with the procurement, hard to find the source of the goods, the local control, the mask can not come.
当时视知恰好有员工在日本，公司委托其在当地采购，结果要排号，目测排到一个月之后。
When it transpired that there were employees in Japan, the company commissioned them to purchase locally, with the result that they had to be numbered and visual for up to a month.
远水解不了近渴，他们放弃了。
Far water can't quench their thirst. They give up.
截至发稿，这家拥有100多名员工的创业公司，仍未解决口罩的难题。
At the time of writing, the start-up company, which employs more than 100 people, still has not solved the mask problem.
知情人称，能找到口罩的企业也不一定省心。
Companies that can find masks don't necessarily worry, say people familiar with the matter.
有家公司费劲心力，从海外买到了1万个复工口罩，然后，被当地政府因疫情防控征用，自己还是复不了工。
One company struggled to buy 10,000 rework masks from overseas, and was forced by the local government to resume work because of the epidemic.
口罩厂老板：我家也没口罩了即便作为一个口罩工厂的管理者，杨铮自己家里也已经没口罩了。
Mask Factory Owner: My family no longer mask even as a mask factory manager, his own home has no mask.
他多数时间吃住在工厂，“嘱咐老婆孩子少出门”。
He spends most of his time in the factory, "telling his wife and children to go out less."
在位于四川成都的这家小型口罩生产工厂，几十名工人三班倒赶制口罩。
Dozens of workers have been working three shifts to make masks at the small mask-making factory in Chengdu, Sichuan.
杨铮告诉AI财经社，他从腊月二十八开始投入工作，至今没有休息。
Mr Yang told AI Financial that he had been working since 28 of December and had not taken a break.
对于春节期间加班的几十名工人，公司给予“能力范围内”的经济补贴。
Dozens of workers who work overtime during the Spring Festival are given financial subsidies that are within their means.
▲ 图/ 人民日报微博新冠肺炎发生以来，为了给这场疫情防控阻击战提供充足“弹药”，医疗用品企业加紧生产。
Since the outbreak of micro-blogging pneumonia in the People's Daily, medical supplies companies have stepped up production to provide adequate "ammunition" for the battle against the disease.
截至目前，四川省共出台了11项政策用以加大疫情防控物资和生活物资保障，针对疫情防控物资保障，要求企业“千方百计扩大产能”。
So far, 11 policies have been put in place in Sichuan Province to increase the supply of materials and supplies for the prevention and control of the disease, requiring enterprises to "spare no effort to expand production capacity."
四川省应对新冠肺炎疫情应急指挥部在2月5日设定目标，力争2月13日前达到日产医用口罩100万只的生产能力。
Sichuan province's emergency command to deal with the outbreak set a target of 1 million medical masks a day by February 13.
2月7日在国新办发布会上，财政部相关人士说，为鼓励企业保质保量增加紧缺的重点医疗防护物资生产，如N95口罩、防护服等，将全部由政府兜底采购收储，这给生产企业吃了一颗“定心丸”。
To encourage companies to increase the quantity and quality of key medical protection products, such as N95 masks and protective clothing, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) said at a press conference on Feb. 7.
据杨铮介绍，四川成都共有8家具备资质的医用口罩生产企业，各家都在加班加点，“只有小部分留下给工厂员工自用”，其他都配合政府管理部门调配。
According to Mr Yang, eight qualified manufacturers of medical masks in Chengdu, Sichuan, are working overtime, "leaving only a small portion for factory staff to use" and the rest are being deployed with government management.
这意味着，市场上能销售的专用口罩变得极为有限。
This means that the number of specialized masks available for sale in the market has become extremely limited.
“对于线上而言，未来很长一段时间内都会无货可发。
"There will be no supplies on the line for a long time to come.
”安徽专门销售N95口罩的经销商刘景善说。
Liu Jingshan, a distributor in Anhui province that specializes in selling N95 masks.
目前，各电商平台的正规货源已经非常稀缺。
At present, the commercial platform of the regular supply of goods has been very scarce.
根据工信部的统计数据，我国口罩产能已是全球第一，之前日口罩最大产能为2000多万只。
According to the Ministry of Industry and Communications, China's mask production capacity is the world's first, before the maximum capacity of more than 20 million masks.
自1月21日联防联控机制成立以来，工信部全力动员企业复工复产。
Since the establishment of JCMB on 21 January, the Ministry has made every effort to reactivate the enterprises.
但在疫情面前，供应仍存在缺口。
But in the face of the epidemic, supply gaps remain.
为缓解口罩紧缺的形势，一批大型企业“跨行”生产口罩、防护服等急需医疗卫生用品。
To ease the shortage of face masks, a number of large enterprises "across the line" production masks, protective clothing and other urgently needed medical supplies.
其中，车企冲在了前线，包括通用五菱、广汽、比亚迪等都已宣布投入口罩等医疗卫生用品的生产。
Among them, carmakers have rushed to the front lines, including General Wuling, GAC, BYD and others have announced plans to put into the production of medical supplies such as masks.
此外，中石化、富士康等企业也加入了跨行生产支援疫情的行列。
In addition, Sinopec, Foxconn and other enterprises also joined the cross-line production support epidemic.
通用五菱预计口罩日生产量达到170万只以上，富士康预计2月底可达到日产200万只。
GM expects to produce more than 1.7 million masks a day and Foxconn expects to produce 2 million a day by the end of February.
不过，一些大企业自身就有庞大的需求，另一些企业目前计划供给一线疫区、医院，暂不考虑对外销售。
However, some large enterprises have their own large demand, others are currently planning to supply the first-line epidemic areas, hospitals, temporarily not to consider external sales.
一家医疗器械公司创始人告诉AI财经社，他们口罩的线上销售渠道已经处于暂停供应的状态。
The founder of a medical-device company told AI Financial that the online distribution of their masks was on hold.
对于下一次线上购买的开放时间，其表示“还不知道”。
The opening hours of the next online purchase are "not yet known."
而之前一段时间，线上货源供应虽然有限，但并未停止。
And some time ago, the online supply of goods, although limited, did not stop.
因为开工手续和当地政府部门对于复工带来人员流动的担忧，该公司的一座自有的小型工厂暂时尚未获得复工允许。
One of the company's own small factories has not yet been allowed to resume work because of work start-ups and local government authorities' concerns about the movement of people back to work.
另一位网络销售口罩等产品的企业人士则对AI财经社表示，在他们的平台上，一次性医用口罩始终处于缺货状态，而普通一次性口罩的价格从年前至今已经增加三倍。
Another company that sells products such as masks on the Internet told AI Financial that disposable masks have been out of stock on their platforms, while the cost of common disposable masks has tripled since a year ago.
“从5毛一个，涨到了现在的2元一个。
"From fifty-one, it's two yuan a day.
”而相对疫情带来的巨大心理恐慌，普通一次性口罩显然不能带给人们充分的安全感。
In contrast to the huge psychological panic caused by the outbreak, it is clear that ordinary disposable masks do not provide people with a sufficient sense of security.
据AI财经社了解，很多线下药店目前仍有口罩供应，但处于限量状态，多数情况下需要早起去排队抢购。
According to AI Financial, many off-line pharmacies are still supplied with masks, but in a limited number of cases need to get up early to rush.
什么时候口罩供应能够充足，普通人能够正常购买到口罩，不必为开工惊慌？“难，口罩脱销将会持续。
When will the supply of masks be sufficient and ordinary people will be able to buy them normally, without panic at the start of the operation?
“上述医疗器械公司创始人建议，“口罩真的要开始循环用了。
"The mask is really going to start circulating," the founder of the medical device company suggested.
“（应受访人要求，张昊泽、袁莉、杨铮为化名。
"(At the request of interviewees, Zhang Haoze, Yuan Li and Yang Zheng became pseudonyms.
）每人互动你的口罩存货还能用多久？文章授权转载自AI财经社（ID：aicjnews）。
) How much longer can everyone interact with your mask inventory? The article authorizes forwarding from AI Financial Services.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
开工了，可我没口罩。
It's working, but I don't have a mask.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "每日人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; everyday & quot;.
var msg_title = "开工了，可我没口罩";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; started, but I didn't include & quot; & quot; with mask.
var msg_desc = "口罩真的要开始循环利用了。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Mask really is about to begin recycling.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="每日人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; everyday & quot;.
