被销毁的100万支玫瑰。
1 million roses destroyed.
被销毁的100万支玫瑰。
1 million roses destroyed.
每日人物                      。
Daily characters.
每日人物。
Daily characters.
轻商业，懂生活。
Light business, understand life.
。
.
The following article comes from 市界。
The following article comes from the municipal boundaries.
Author 有趣有料的。
The Author is interesting.
市界。
City boundaries.
最具洞见的资本观察。
The most insightful observations of capital.
灾难具有两面性。
Disasters have two sides.
在惋惜花农遭受重大损失的同时，也侧面反映出来以云南花卉行业为代表的中国鲜花行业的问题。
While regretting the heavy losses suffered by flower farmers, the problems of the flowers industry in China, represented by Yunnan Flower Industry, are also reflected in profile.
文 |李曙光 齐敏倩编辑 | 廖影“找我买花吧，一扎玫瑰20枝才二十几块钱，真的不贵。
Li Shuguang Qi Min-qian, editor and director Liao Ying. "Find me some flowers. A bundle of 20 roses is only about twenty dollars.
”情人节早上，一条“一天上百万枝玫瑰被销毁”的消息上了热搜后，李欣留下这样的评论。
On Valentine's Day morning, Ms. Li left a comment after a hot search for word that millions of roses had been destroyed in a day.
她已经通过社区团购等方式卖了一年多鲜花，今年的情人节是她从业以来经历过生意最差的时候。
She has been selling flowers for more than a year, including through community shopping, and this year's Valentine's Day is the worst she has seen in her career.
去年情人节，她光是社区团购就卖了几十单，而今年，她一共只卖了3单。
She sold dozens of them last Valentine's Day in the community alone, compared with three this year.
李欣的进货渠道是云南斗南花卉市场，这里是亚洲最大的鲜切花交易市场。
Li Xin's sourcing channel is the Du Nan Flower Market in Yunnan Province, the largest fresh cut flower market in Asia.
与往年情人节期间市场上摩肩接踵不同的是，今年来拍卖的花农甚少。
Auctions this year have been rare, unlike on Valentine's Day, when markets were crowded around.
即便价格只有平时的三分之一，仍有不少卖不出去的玫瑰花被无奈的丢在垃圾桶里。
Even if the price is only one-third of the usual, there are still a lot of roses can not be sold out of the garbage bin helplessly.
疫情之下，本该甜蜜的情人节，却成了“一天百万支玫瑰花被销毁“的无奈。
Under the epidemic, should be sweet Valentine's Day, but has become "a million roses a day destroyed" helplessness.
但若深究，疫情黑天鹅或只是一个引子，背后引爆的是云南花卉产链积弊已久的弊病，现在只是被无限放大了。
But a closer look at the epidemic of black swans or just a precursor to the long-standing malady of Yunnan's flower production chain is only magnified indefinitely.
遇冷的玫瑰花李欣最初因为单纯喜欢鲜花就在家里做起了小小的鲜花生意，她会统计出每周订花的客户量，然后在斗南花卉市场的App上统一下单，寄到家里，简单修剪后，等着客户上门取花。
When it comes to cold roses, Li Xin starts small flower business at home simply because she likes flowers. She counts the number of customers who order flowers each week and sends them to her home on the App of the flower market at Du Nan, where she simply clips and waits for customers to pick them up.
每年12月到次年5月份，是她和大多数花店生意最好的时候。
December to May is the best time for her to do business with most florist's.
鼠年春节之前，鲜花价格大涨。
The price of flowers rose sharply before the Spring Festival.
一扎普通玫瑰花五六十块钱也有不少人买。
A bunch of ordinary roses were bought for fifty or sixty dollars.
圣诞、元旦、情人节、妇女节、清明节和母亲节等上半年的节日是鲜花销量最好的时候。
Festivals in the first half of the year, such as Christmas, New Year's Day, Valentine's Day, Tomb Sweeping Day and Mother's Day, are the best sellers.
李欣记得，去年2月初她就开始接情人节的单，光是社区团购就有几十单。
Ms. Li remembers that she started taking Valentine's Day tickets in early February, with dozens of them for community groups alone.
可今年，她一共才卖出去3束花。
But this year, she only sold three bouquets.
疫情导致情人节鲜花需求锐减，价格也大幅下降。
The outbreak has led to a sharp drop in demand and prices for Valentine's Day flowers.
李欣向市界展示，她用来采购的斗南花卉市场App上，普通玫瑰花的价格降到0.15元，还是卖不出去。
On the App, the flower market at which she makes purchases, Ms. Li shows how the average rose can't be sold for as much as $15.
斗南花卉市场工作人员接受媒体采访时说，今年玫瑰花价格只有去年同期的三分之一，最便宜的玫瑰花甚至只卖7、8分钱一支，鲜花需求量只有往年的30%—40%。
This year roses are worth a third of the price of the same period last year, with the cheapest roses selling for as little as 7 or 8 cents apiece and flowers in demand at 30% to 40%, according to media interviews.
“花贱伤农”，需求少、价格低，让不少花农犯了愁。
"Flower base injury farmer", demand is small, price is low, let a lot of florists made worry.
王晓做鲜花电商生意，云南的花农是她的进货渠道。
Wang Xiaodo flower business, Yunnan flower farmers are her channel of purchase.
去年情人节“一花难求”，和她合作的花农卖光了所有的花也供不上市场需求。
On Valentine's Day last year, the florists she worked with sold out all their flowers and couldn't keep up with demand.
但在今年，鲜花销量差，价格低，人工、交通也不方便，许多花农只能任由自己种的鲜花烂在地里或者倒掉。
But this year, with poor flower sales, low prices and poor labor and transportation, many gardeners are left to rot their own flowers in the fields or throw them away.
在云南做鲜花网络批发生意的张天，从1月22号以来，一直处于歇业状态。
Zhang Tian, who does wholesale flowers in Yunnan province, has been out of business since January 22.
一般情况下，他的公司一天可以批发出去上万把鲜花。
His company typically sells tens of thousands of flowers a day.
今年春节，他的生意无法跟往年比，“可能是今年春节早，大家都很仓促，销量稍微差点。
This Spring Festival, his business can not compare with previous years, "may be this year's Spring Festival early, everyone is very rushed, almost sales.
”据张天介绍，每年12月、1月和2月份，这三个月的鲜花成交量可以占到全年的一半左右。
In December, January and February, flowers account for about half of the annual turnover for the three months, Zhang said.
如今疫情来袭，大家都不敢贸然开工，他和花农们只能等待下个花期的来临。
Now that the epidemic has hit, no one dares to rush to work. He and the gardeners can only wait for the next flowering period to come.
▲云南斗南花卉市场是亚洲最大的鲜切花交易市场鲜花行业的困境很快转导到上游卖种球的商户身上。
The flower market at Du Nan, Yunnan Province, is the largest fresh cut flower market in Asia. The difficulties quickly find their way into upstream sellers.
滇峰园艺的老板童丽萍在斗南市场经营花卉种球，还开了淘宝店。
Dian Feng horticultural boss Tong Liping manages flower seed ball in Du Nan market, also opened Taobao store.
她说，正常情况下，花农会提前7—10天准备情人节的花朵，拿到斗南市场拍卖，那是整个市场最热闹的时候。
Normally, the Flower Farmers' Association prepares Valentine's Day flowers seven to 10 days in advance to be auctioned off at the Danun Market, which is the busiest time in the market, she said.
童丽萍告诉市界，鲜花交易一般是在晚上，情人节期间，他们市场上人挨着人，走动都很困难。
Ms. Trapping told the city that flowers are usually traded at night, and it is difficult for people to walk around the market during Valentine's Day.
而今年，来拍卖的农户非常少，她经常看到卖不出去的玫瑰花被扔在市场的垃圾桶里。
This year, very few farmers came to the auction, and she often saw roses that could not be sold dumped in the market garbage can.
她家的种球除了网络销售，也会卖给花农，春天正是买种球的季节。
Her seeds are sold to flower farmers as well as online, and spring is the season for seed balls.
往年春天，她光是一个淘宝店一天就能卖几万块钱，但是现在一天的销量基本就是几千块钱。
She sold tens of thousands of dollars a day at a Taobao store last spring, but now she sells for thousands of dollars a day.
一般正月十五之后，她就开始陆续接农户的单，今年至今为止，她一个花农的订单都没接到。
After the fifteenth day of the first month, she began to pick up the farmer's single, so far this year, she did not receive a florist order.
差价几十倍背后的鲜花潜规则斗南花卉市场是中国和全亚洲最大的花卉市场，位于风景秀丽的云南省昆明市的滇池东岸斗南村。
With flower markets at dozens of times the difference, the South China flower market is the largest in China and all of Asia, at Dou Nan Village, on the eastern shore of Yunnan Province's Kunming City.
其距离昆明机场12公里，交通位置优越。
Kunming Airport is 12 kilometers away from the traffic location is superior.
该村所在的镇被称为“中国花木之乡”。
The town where the village is located is known as the "Land of Chinese Flowers and Plants."
“花”是云南的靓丽名片之一，从上世纪80年代至今，云南当地大力扶持用各种措施推进“云花”产业链的迈进，让云南成为亚洲鲜花中心。
"Flower" is one of Yunnan's beautiful business cards, from the 1980s to the present, Yunnan Province vigorously support measures to promote the "Cloud Flower" industrial chain to make Yunnan into the Asian Flower Center.
根据《2018年度云南花卉产业发展公报》显示，“2018年全省鲜切花产量达112.2亿支，产值100.6亿元，云花产值首次突破百亿元大关。
According to the 2018 Yunnan Flower Industry Development Bulletin, "the production of fresh cut flowers in 2018 reached 11.22 billion yuan, with a production value of 10.06 billion yuan, breaking the 10 billion yuan mark for the first time.
鲜切花种植面积为22.7万亩，产销量连续25年保持全国领先，占全国鲜切花总产量的53%”云南鲜切花销量占全国市场的70%左右以上。
With an area of 227,000 mu, cut flowers account for the largest production and sales in China for 25 years, accounting for 53 percent of the total fresh cut flowers in China.
10%出口到日本、泰国、新加坡、韩国、俄罗斯、台湾、香港等40多个国家和地区。
Ten percent are exported to more than 40 countries and regions including Japan, Thailand, Singapore, the Republic of Korea, Russia, Taiwan and Hong Kong.
在产业链背后是十余万云南花农。
Behind the industrial chain are more than 100,000 Yunnan flower farmers.
每天凌晨，农户从自家地里收获鲜花之后，通过昆明国际花卉拍卖交易中心进行筛选与拍卖，仅有 30％的优质花卉最终能够通过筛选，以高价运往全国乃至全世界，近 70％的鲜花质量都因不达标而被低价贱卖。
Every morning, after farmers harvest flowers from their fields, only 30 percent of them are screened and auctioned through the Kunming International Flower Auction Center. Only 30 percent of them can eventually be sifted to the whole country and the world at high prices, and nearly 70 percent of the flowers are sold cheaply for substandard products.
这里鲜切花会被分为ABCD四个等级，低等级和高等级的差价高达几十倍。
The fresh cut flowers here will be divided into ABCD four grades, the difference between the lower and higher grades up to dozens of times.
评定的标准一般是根据花、茎、叶的完整、均衡、新鲜和成熟度以及色、姿、香味等综合品质进行目测和感官评定。
Evaluation criteria are generally based on the flowers, stems, leaves integrity, balance, freshness and maturity, as well as the color, posture, fragrance and other comprehensive quality of visual and sensory evaluation.
斗南花卉市场的管理人员董瑞称，往年的A级玫瑰花每支价格在2.5元和3元以上，最高价可以达到5元，而C级和D级玫瑰花每支仅需几毛钱。
Dong Rui, an administrator at the Dou South flower market, says roses of category A in previous years cost 2.5 yuan and more, with a price of up to $5 each. Class C and D roses cost a few cents each.
花农们都知道：种出一株高品质的鲜花，将会是比几十株普通花更有价值。
Flower growers know that growing a high-quality flower will be more valuable than a few dozen common ones.
现实是云南省的鲜切花多数由个体花农生产，而大多数花农都没有接受过专业的科学种植技术培训，导致云南花卉产品的标准化不够，产品质量参差不齐。
The reality is that most of Yunnan's fresh cut flowers are produced by individual flower growers. Most of them have not received professional training in scientific cultivation techniques, which leads to insufficient standardization of Yunnan flower products and uneven product quality.
所以云南的鲜花产业链虽然整体繁荣，但由于主要是以小农经济为主，整个产业链薄弱。
So Yunnan flowers industry chain although the overall prosperity, but mainly due to small-scale farming economy, the entire industrial chain is weak.
在今年遇到了这样雪上加霜的行情，便将这种困境放大。
In the face of this year's more difficult situation, will be magnified.
由于受雪灾和新冠肺炎疫情影响，今年云南花卉产业遭受重创。
The Yunnan flower industry has been hit hard this year by snowstorms and the outbreak of new crown pneumonia.
据昆明国际花卉交易中心预测，云南鲜花行业第一季度损失将达40亿左右。
Kunming International Flower Trading Center predicts that Yunnan's flower industry will lose about $4 billion in the first quarter.
据报道，年前花农们在斗南的供货量仍有每日80万枝，1月27日起仅仅有三四十万枝，而拍卖成交额也仅为50%—60%，就在去年七夕拍到每枝4元的红玫瑰，最近的最低成交价跌到了每枝5分钱。
According to reports, farmers still sell 800,000 plants a day in Danun, up from 3.4 million on January 27, and the auction turnover is only 50-60 percent.
花农们深知自己的玫瑰花无法走出云南省，大大小小的种植户选择让所有的玫瑰花在地里开爆掉，再剪掉当垃圾处理，生怕影响后续的鲜花种植。
Farmers knew that their roses would not come out of Yunnan Province. Farmers, large and small, chose to have all the roses blown up in the fields and cut them off for garbage disposal, for fear that they might interfere with subsequent flower growing.
所以才有了”一天就有100多万支玫瑰花被销毁”的现象。
That is why more than one million roses were destroyed in a single day.
灾难具有两面性。
Disasters have two sides.
在惋惜花农遭受重大损失的同时，也侧面反映出来以云南花卉行业为代表的中国鲜花行业的问题。
While regretting the heavy losses suffered by flower farmers, the problems of the flowers industry in China, represented by Yunnan Flower Industry, are also reflected in profile.
被“嫌弃”的云南鲜花鲜花也是有技术和专利的，也讲究国际竞争力，而那些高端的具备相应技术专利的鲜花品种在国际市场上不仅高价并且供不应求。
Yunnan flowers and flowers are also technically and patented and internationally competitive, while the high-end flower varieties with corresponding technology patents are not only overpriced but also in short supply on the international market.
花之国荷兰平均每年能产出 800到 1000个新品种，这使其在高端花卉市场占主导地位，高档市场的鲜花价格远远高于低档鲜花。
The Netherlands, the country of flowers, produces an average of 800 to 1,000 new varieties a year, giving it a dominant position in the high-end flower market, where flower prices are far higher than low-end flowers.
荷兰的花卉产业是一门科学技术。
The flower industry in Holland is a science and technology.
建立了具体的科研体系和运行机制。
Established the concrete scientific research system and the operation mechanism.
在荷兰，花卉的研究机构数量非常多，各个研究机构都有自己的主要研究方向。
In the Netherlands, there are a very large number of flower research institutions, each with its own main research area.
主要分为3个层次：大学研究院、国家研究院和企业研究院，分别负责科研、推广、生产和市场，分工明确，相互合作，军团作战。
There are three levels: the University Research Institute, the National Research Institute and the Enterprise Research Institute, which are responsible for research, promotion, production and marketing respectively.
云南花卉则是小农经济为主，自主知识产权发展相对滞后，自主知识产权的花卉新品种非常少。
Yunnan flowers are mainly small-scale agricultural economy, the development of independent intellectual property rights lagged behind, the independent intellectual property rights of flowers are very few.
大宗商品花卉的种源供应主要依赖国外进口。
The main source of supply for commodities and flowers is imported from abroad.
据云南大学学者李如是发表的《整合云南鲜花销售模式》一文中指出：“我国的花卉种植总面积居世界第一，比“花之国”荷兰大 10倍，但荷兰的花卉出口量却占世界花卉市场的 70%以上，我国只占到0.5%。
"China ranks first in the world in terms of flower area and 10 times larger than Holland, but the Netherlands exports more than 70 percent of the world's flower market and our country accounts for only 0.5 percent," Li, a scholar at Yunnan University, said.
云南的鲜花产业花了大力气，却只有蝇头小利。
The flowers industry in Yunnan has made a big effort, but only a minuscule profit.
”“荷兰2013 年每公顷平均产值约人民币 133 万元人民币，云南省 2013 年平均产值约21.92 万元，相差近 6 倍。
"The average output value of the Netherlands was about 1.33 million yuan per hectare in 2013, compared with 219.2 million yuan in Yunnan Province in 2013, nearly six times that amount.
”云南的鲜花总产量很大，但是出口比例却很小，虽然近年来经过一番努力有所增长，但是2016 年的数据是云南省出口仅占花卉总销售额10%左右。
Yunnan's total flower production is large, but its export share is small, and although efforts have increased in recent years, the 2016 figure is that Yunnan's exports account for only about 10 per cent of total flower sales.
此外，由于花卉是一种极易损耗的产品，对于冷链运输的要求非常高。
In addition, because flowers are a very easy to wear products, the cold chain transport requirements are very high.
斗南市场虽然靠近昆明机场，但是仅靠昆明机场的运力是有限的，昆明至欧洲、东亚等偏远地区没有直达航班，出口到这些偏远的地区的花需要进行多次周转，运输时间长，鲜切花品质得不到保障。
Although near Kunming airport, Kunming airport alone has limited capacity, Kunming to Europe, East Asia and other remote areas do not have direct flights, exports to these remote areas of the flowers need to turn over many times, long transport time, the quality of fresh cut flowers not guaranteed.
国内花卉运价是其它国家运价的两倍以上，这成为制约花卉出口的另一限制因素。
Domestic flower tariffs are more than double those of other countries, which is another constraint on flower exports.
并且云南的花卉由于很多无法做边采收边消毒，大多鲜花只作初级处理，没有形成标准化的工业流程和运作模式，这大大降低了云南鲜切花的保鲜度、瓶插时间、正品率及鲜花品质。
And Yunnan flowers because many can not do harvest side disinfection, most flowers are only for primary processing, did not form a standardized industrial process and operating model, which greatly reduced the fresh cut flowers in Yunnan, the fresh-cut time, quality of authentic products and flowers.
最终导致了云南鲜切花除了在本地的收购的超低价优势外，没有办法形成更多的产业附加值。
Eventually led to Yunnan fresh cut flowers in addition to the local acquisition of ultra-low prices, there is no way to form more industrial value added.
而这种薄弱的产业链，碰上不期而遇的新冠肺炎黑天鹅时，品质低、工业化程度低，出口量少的赤裸现状将会无限放大疫情的影响，使产业链重创。
And this weak industrial chain, the unexpected encounter of the new crown pneumonia black swan, low quality, low industrialization, export volume of naked status will unlimited magnify the impact of the epidemic, so that the industrial chain hit hard.
另一个放大因素是，国人的鲜花消费习惯不像欧美，欧美日常就有习惯消费鲜花，没事往家里买一束鲜花都是司空见惯的事情，但是中国不是。
Another amplification factor is that Chinese people's consumption of flowers is not like the United States and Europe, the daily habit of consuming flowers, nothing to buy a bouquet of flowers at home is common, but China is not.
在荷兰，日常鲜花消费占比高达60%，美国则是40％，中国这一比例历年只有5%上下。
In the Netherlands, flowers account for 60% of daily consumption, compared with 40% in the U.S., and about 5% in China.
国人的鲜花消费场景主要集中在节日和婚庆。
Chinese flower consumption scene mainly focuses on festivals and weddings.
打铁尚需自身硬，疫情黑天鹅是一个引子，“云南花农情人节一天销毁百万支玫瑰花”也是一个引子，引爆的是云南鲜花产业乃至中国鲜花产业的薄弱环节。
Strike iron still needs oneself hard, epidemic black swan is an introduction, "Yunnan flower farmers destroy a million roses a day" is also an introduction, detonating Yunnan flowers industry and even the weak link in the Chinese flower industry.
倘若云南花卉具有极强的品质和完善的全球物流产业链，出口额必然大幅提高，护城河加深，疫情黑天鹅的影响将会大大减弱。
If Yunnan flowers have strong quality and perfect global logistics industry chain, the export value will be significantly increased, moat deepened, the impact of the epidemic black swan will be greatly reduced.
这是一个深远的命题和任务，花农的收入和城市的产业经济规划牵扯其中，虽然云南近些年一直在努力改善花卉产业质量，但是上述的花卉产业薄弱基本盘，并不是那么容易改变。
Although Yunnan has been trying to improve the quality of its flower industry in recent years, the floral industry is not so easily changed.
花卉产业被称为21世纪的朝阳产业，既是朝阳必然有无数人在追逐。
Flower industry is called the sunrise industry in the 21st century, since the morning sun is bound to have countless people chasing.
花卉产业到今天已经脱离了传统农业耕作的认知，在培育、研发和加工领域都面临着极强的科技竞赛。
Flower industry has been out of the traditional knowledge of agricultural cultivation, in the field of cultivation, research and development and processing are facing a very strong science and technology competition.
需要个人、企业、政府的共同培育和进化。
It needs the co-cultivation and evolution of individuals, enterprises and governments.
这或是中国诸多行业的一个缩影。
This is perhaps a microcosm of China's many industries.
竞争悄然而至，偏安一隅的小富即安、农耕思维已然无法面对加剧的竞争环境和突至的黑天鹅，改变是痛苦的，但经济动能转换既是国家需求，也是市场使然，更应是每个从业者的认知。
Competition has crept in, and while pockets of affluence and farming thinking have been unable to cope with increased competition and burgeoning black swans, change is painful, but the shift in economic momentum is both a national demand and a market imperative, and should be perceived by every practitioner.
唯有如此才是中国，企业，个人能持续向好的基础。
Only then is China, the enterprise, the individual can continue to be a good foundation.
（文中李欣、张天、王晓均为化名）每人互动今年情人节你收到玫瑰了吗？文章授权转载自市界（ID：ishijie2018）。
Do you receive roses for Valentine's Day this year? The article authorizes forwarding from the city boundary (ID: ishijie 2018).
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
被销毁的100万支玫瑰。
1 million roses destroyed.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "每日人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; everyday & quot;.
var msg_title = "被销毁的100万支玫瑰";。
var msg _ title = & quot; 1 million roses & quot;; destroyed.
var msg_desc = "黑天鹅牵出产业链弊病";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; black swans at & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="每日人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; everyday & quot;.
