当北上广没有育儿嫂。
There is no Sister-in-law in northern China.
每人作者。
Author per person.
每日人物                      。
Daily characters.
每日人物。
Daily characters.
轻商业，懂生活。
Light business, understand life.
。
.
还有些雇主，因为年前预定好的阿姨无法回京，自己的公司又复工，不能没有育儿嫂，干脆开着车去阿姨的老家们，将阿姨们从河北、山东、山西这些地方，接回到北京来，放到自家另一所房子里隔离14天后上工。
Some employers, unable to return to Beijing because their aunts, who had been booked up years ago, could not return to work without their mothers-in-law. They drove to their aunts' hometown and took their aunts back to Beijing from places like Hebei, Shandong and Shanxi and put them in quarantine for 14 days in another house.
文| 涂雨清编辑 | 金匝运营 | 一凡两个家庭的困境这原本是一个相对轻松的春节。
Rain & amp; Clear Editing & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
50岁的育儿嫂陈红和丈夫今年在北京租上了自己的房子，是四居室里的一个单间，终于不用住在公司宿舍了。
Chen Hong, 50, and her husband rented their own apartment in Beijing this year, a four-bedroom, one-bedroom apartment that eventually won't have to live in a company dorm.
16岁的儿子放寒假从老家河北赶来，大年三十，她做了小鸡炖蘑菇，烧了一条鱼，还包了饺子，是自己剁的馅儿。
Sixteen-year-old son from his hometown Hebei came, about 30, she made chicken stewed mushrooms, burned a fish, and made dumplings, is their own chop stuffing.
几天前，她花了200块钱给自己买了件新衣服，想着3月份回老家的时候能穿上，这是今年她第一次买新衣裳。
A few days ago, she bought herself a new dress for $200, thinking that she could wear it when she returned home in March, the first time this year she had bought a new dress.
原本狠下心给自己买了一件900元的羽绒服，回家挂了一个晚上，最后还是拿去退了，给孩子换了一整套。
Originally cruel heart bought oneself a 900 yuan down jacket, went home to hang a night, finally took back, for the child changed a set.
北京的除夕夜很安静，听不到爆竹声。
Beijing New Year's Eve is very quiet, can not hear firecrackers.
傍晚六点，日落了，整个屋子，只有陈红一家的灯还亮着，其它三家人都回了老家过年。
At six o'clock in the evening, sunset, the entire house, only the Chen Hong family lights are still on, the other three people back home for the New Year.
新型冠状肺炎的消息在那个晚上来到他们的餐桌，“哎呀，这病情怎么这么厉害啊，怎么还能封村。
The news of the new type of coronary pneumonia came to their table that night. "Gee, why is it so bad that we can still seal the village?"
”但一家人一说就过了，没把它当回事。
But the family did not take it seriously when they said it.
坏消息却接踵而至。
Bad news ensues.
陈红的雇主是一岁半孩子的妈妈，对方告诉她，初六先不用来上工了，在家里观察14天再说。
Chen Hong's employer is a year and a half child's mother, the other side told her, first six days do not come to work, in the home observation 14 days.
她丈夫在北京一家公司里当司机，假期延长到了2月10号，上初三的儿子也接到了学校通知，暂不返校。
Her husband worked as a driver for a company in Beijing, and his holiday was extended until February 10, when her third-year-old son was told not to return to school.
这个原本一家团聚的房间渐渐成了牢笼。
The room, which had once been a family reunion, gradually became a cage.
十平米的房间里，只放得下一张1.5米宽的双人床和一张沙发。
The ten-square-metre room only holds a 1.5-metre-wide double bed and a sofa.
儿子个儿高，父子俩睡床上，陈红矮一些，蜷在沙发上，睡一觉起来周身都疼。
Son tall, father and son sleep in bed, Chen Hong shorter, curled up on the sofa, sleep up all over the pain.
吃晚饭的时候，陈红想起那桌年夜饭，说，“早知道就不那么快吃完（鱼和鸡）了。
At dinner, Chen Hong remembered the dinner table and said, "I knew it would not be finished so soon."
”厨房里只剩下几袋面条，零星的土豆和白菜。
"There were only a few bags of noodles, potatoes and cabbage left in the kitchen.
儿子坐在床沿，趴在折叠桌上听网课。
The son sat on the edge of the bed, leaning over the folding table.
延期开学后，老师嘱咐学生网上学习，陈红家里三个人的手机都打不开网课的页面，孩子只能听见声音，看不到链接里的画面。
Postponed after the beginning of the school year, the teacher instructed students to learn online, Chen Hong's mobile phone can not open the pages of the net classes, the children can only hear the sound, not the link screen.
老师说得用电脑，但这个家买不起一台电脑。
The teacher speaks computer, but the family can't afford a computer.
她看了微信钱包的余额，是200块。
She looked at the balance of the envelope. It was 200 dollars.
原本等着一开工开始赚下个月的生活费，现在看起来情况并不明朗。
Waiting to start earning next month's living expenses as soon as construction began seems uncertain.
陷入困境的，不仅仅是陈红一家人。
It's not just the Chenhong family that's in trouble.
没了育儿嫂，北上广很多家庭都慌了手脚。
Without the Sister-in-law, many families in the north are flummoxed.
▲ 育儿嫂是北上广许多“双工家庭”的生活得以正常运转的“标配”。
Sister-in-law is the "standard" for the normal functioning of life in many "dual-earner families" in the north.
图/ 《找到你》剧照住在上海普陀区的方伊楠觉得自己就快抑郁了，“妈妈都是超人咯，白天不用睡觉，晚上也不用睡觉咯。
Photo / Find You Fang Yinan, who lives in Putuo District of Shanghai, feels depressed. "Mom is Superman. She doesn't need to sleep during the day or at night.
”她的孩子刚满两个月，父亲身体不好，母亲要照顾他，婆婆还没退休，没办法来家里帮手。
Her father had not been well for two months, his mother had to take care of him, and her mother-in-law had not retired to help her at home.
原本一直有月嫂住家，月嫂走后，和家政公司说好育儿嫂初七来家里上班，肺炎一来，村里封路，育儿嫂没法来了。
Originally there has been a sister-in-law home, after the departure of the month, and the home company said good Sister-in-law to work, pneumonia, the village closed, Sister-in-law can not come.
方伊楠的丈夫是基层社工，因为疫情影响，春节取消了假期，每天最少要在岗位上待12个小时，她开始了独自带娃的噩梦般的日子。
Fang Yinan's husband is a social worker at the grass-roots level. Because of the epidemic, the Chinese New Year cancelled her holiday and spent at least 12 hours a day on her job.
崽崽每天晚上12点-1点之间睡觉，3小时左右喂一次奶，早上7点钟醒来，再也不肯睡床，要妈妈抱着睡。
Puppies sleep every night between 12 and 1, are fed about three hours, wake up at 7 in the morning and never sleep again.
不接受亲喂，只能用奶瓶，方伊楠每隔4小时就要吸一次奶。
Do not accept the kiss, can only use the bottle, Fang Inan every four hours to take milk.
孩子胀气，白天睡不踏实，一般睡了不到10分钟就会惊醒，醒了就需要重新哄睡，她就在这些没有止境的程序里来回往复。
The child swells, sleeps unsteadily during the day, generally sleeps for less than 10 minutes to wake up, needs to coax sleeps again, she in these endless program back and forth.
没时间做饭，方伊楠自己吃的，通常是泡面和速冻食品。
There's no time for cooking. Fang eats it herself, usually noodles and frozen food.
疫情期间买菜也不方便，就算手机下单，也没法送上门，要去小区门口拿，她不放心带孩子出门，又不好意思每次麻烦居委会来送菜，“奶都回了很多。
Buying vegetables during the epidemic period is not convenient, even if the mobile phone orders, can not send the door, to pick up the door to the community, she did not trust to take the children out, and embarrassed every time trouble to send food to the neighborhood committee, "milk back a lot.
”带娃的第24天，方伊楠联系的家政公司有了信儿，还有几位春节期间没有回老家的育儿嫂可以调动，但能用的育儿嫂太紧俏了，另一家人给出的价格高了1000块，她还没能等来，育儿嫂就去了别家。
"On the 24th day, Fang got a letter from the home office she had contacted, and a couple of her sisters-in-law who did not return home during the Spring Festival, but the available sister-in-law was too tight, and the other family offered a price of $1,000, before she could wait.
放下刚睡着的崽崽，方伊楠拿出手机回复朋友的消息，“我一个人，24小时崩溃地带。
Lay down the sleeping cub, Fang Yinan takes out his cell phone and replies to a friend's message, "I'm alone in a 24-hour crash zone.
”▲ 对很多职场妈妈而言，在家办公带孩子=加班，出门上班=休假。
For many working mothers, working from home with children = overtime, going out to work = taking time off.
图/ 《业务部长 吉良奈津子》剧照停滞的生意陈红的雇主是双职工家庭，孩子妈妈每天7点出门上班，爸爸常年在外。
Business Staggered Business Chen Hong's employer is a two-earner family, his mother goes out to work at 7 every day and his father is away all year round.
一岁半的孩子正是难带的时候，因为担忧疫情，暂时不敢让育儿嫂来家里。
A year and a half of the child is difficult to bring, because of fear of the epidemic, sister-in-law to let the home.
她对陈红说，等到2月20号吧，自己所在的公司通知20号上班，一旦开工，家里不能没人带孩子。
'Wait until February 20th, 'she told Chen Hong.' My company told her to go to work on February 20th.
某种角度来说，陈红是幸运的，这个春节她留在了北京，隔离14天后，还能继续回到雇主家里。
In a sense, Chen is lucky to have stayed in Beijing for the Spring Festival, staying in quarantine for 14 days before returning to her employer's home.
还有更多的育儿嫂滞留在老家，至今无法返回。
Many more are staying at home and are still unable to return.
新冠肺炎在春节期间爆发，包括育儿嫂在内的大量阿姨春节期间回老家，又因疫情无法返岗，家政行业几乎全面停工。
New Crown Pneumonia broke out during the Spring Festival, including a large number of aunts and sisters-in-law during the Spring Festival home, due to the epidemic could not return to work, almost all domestic work stoppage.
北京是全国家政服务需求量排名第一的城市。
Beijing is the city with the highest demand for domestic service in the country.
据北京家政服务协会测算，北京600多万户家庭中，至少有三分之一需要家政服务，其中老人陪护、病患护理、婴幼儿看护等业态需求量最大。
The Beijing Home Affairs Association estimates that at least one-third of Beijing's more than 6 million households need domestic help, with the elderly most in demand for escort, patient care, and childcare.
育儿嫂和月嫂们缓解着城市越来越大的育幼压力，国家卫健委副主任于学军在2019年提出，目前我国有3岁以下（不含3岁）婴幼儿5000万左右，而照护服务供给不足。
Sister-in-law and sister-in-law are relieving the growing pressure on the city's children, said Yu Xuejun, deputy director of the National Fitness Commission.
从家政服务业态数据来看，母婴护理业态的营业收入占到家政服务业营业总收入的30%。
According to the data of domestic service industry, the operating income of mother and child care industry accounts for 30% of the total operating income of domestic service.
但这个春节，一夜之间，育幼压力重回北上广。
But this Spring Festival, overnight, the pressure of child-rearing returned northward.
一些规模较大的家政公司决定充分调配春节留京的阿姨。
Some of the larger home economics companies decided to fully deploy aunts staying in Beijing for the Spring Festival.
主营业务为育儿嫂和月嫂的家政公司“阿姨来了”北京分公司负责人孙梅说，这些措施也只能满足一些老客户暂时替换的需求，新单几乎接不了。
Sun Mei, head of the Beijing branch of the home-economics company, which specializes in raising children, says the measures will only meet the temporary replacement needs of some old customers, who will barely be able to connect to the new ones.
还有些雇主，因为年前预定好的阿姨无法回京，自己的公司又复工了，不能没有育儿嫂，干脆开着车去阿姨的老家们，将阿姨们从河北、山东、山西这些离北京不算太远的省份，接回到北京来，放到自家另一所房子里隔离14天后上工。
Some employers, unable to return to Beijing because their aunts, who had been booked up years ago, returned to work after 14 days in isolation in another home, instead of driving to their aunts' home towns and driving them back to Beijing from provinces not too far from Beijing: Hebei, Shandong and Shanxi.
春节后原本是这个行业一年当中最旺的用工季节，以往从大年初四开始往后的一个月里，家政公司“阿姨来了”在北京每天能签下的新单几十到上百，但现在从各个渠道反馈来的数据，只有“零星的几个单子”。
After the Spring Festival, which was originally the most popular employment season in the industry, the "auntie" of home economics signed dozens to hundreds of new orders a day in Beijing for a month starting on Thursday, but now comes from various sources with only "a few odd lists."
2月7号开始，“阿姨来了”呼吁非疫区的阿姨回京，由公司安排隔离14天再上岗。
February 7, the "aunt came" called on the non-infected areas of the aunt back to Beijing, the company arranged isolation for 14 days before the job.
但阿姨们分散在全国各地，目前回到北京的仅有25人。
But aunts are scattered all over the country, with only 25 people returning to Beijing.
孙梅说，“我们公司的一句口号就是有人就有一切，现在没有人，就什么都做不了，所有的业务都开展不了。
"The slogan of our company is that everyone has everything. Now nobody can do anything, nothing can be done," Sun said.
”即便是有了人，也解决不了全部的问题。
Even with people, you can't solve all your problems.
有家政公司安排好育儿嫂后，雇主要求这家公司的一位店长出具一份保证书，保证这位要来上工的月嫂没有感染肺炎，“我怎么敢保证？”这位店长也很无奈。
After a domestic company arranged for a sister-in-law, the employer asked one of the company's store directors to issue a letter of guarantee that the incoming sister-in-law was not infected with pneumonia.
为了规避风险，更多小型的家政公司则做出了不接单的决定。
To avoid risk, more small home-management companies have made unordered decisions.
▲育儿嫂必须通过严格的培训才可以入户上岗。
The mother-in-law must go through rigorous training before she can enter the house.
图/ 受访方提供在北京的家政行业从业8年，徐莲从育儿嫂干起，成为家政人员培训师，终于在去年5月开了属于自己的一家店，主要接月嫂和育儿嫂的订单，不忙的时候，店里能张罗接单的阿姨有20人左右。
Xu, who started her career as a domestic worker in Beijing after working as a domestic worker for eight years, opened her own shop in May last year, mainly for Sister-in-law and Sister-in-Law.
但从疫情爆发后到今天，徐莲的店“几乎没有新的客户来问”，“就是有问的，我们也不派单子。
But from the outbreak of the outbreak to the present day, Xu Lin's shop "almost no new customers to ask", "even if asked, we do not send a list.
”她说，“阿姨要出来，正常来说有隔离申请，咱们也没有隔离的条件，要是居家隔离，咱们对工人也不了解。
'Auntie wants to come out, 'she said.' Normally there's a quarantine request, and we don't have the isolation, and we don't know the workers if we're isolated.
”北京市疾控中心要求外地返京的家政服务人员，返京后应自我医学观察14天。
The Beijing CDC has asked foreign domestic helpers to return to Beijing for 14 days of self-medical observation.
家政公司的宿舍大多是几人一间的上下铺，很难做到单独隔离。
The dormitory of home affairs company is a few person room upper and lower berth, it is very difficult to achieve isolation.
徐莲还是会担心，回北京后也无法保证阿姨们每天接触的人里一定没有感染源。
Xu will still worry that after returning to Beijing, there is no guarantee that the aunt daily contact in the people must not be infected with the source.
“还没盈利，就出现了这个事情。
"It happened before it was profitable.
损失都不敢想。
I can't think of a loss.
”徐莲每天都关注新增病例的数量，看看“有没有拐点”，然后叮嘱店里的阿姨“别回来”。
Xu Lian followed the number of new cases every day to see if there was an inflection point and then told her aunt not to "come back."
等大年初七，北京是个晴天，但陈红感受不到比前几日更猛烈的阳光。
On the seventh day of the Lunar New Year, Beijing is a sunny day, but Chen Hong did not feel more violent than the previous days of the sun.
房间里只有一扇小窗，对面是饭店的水泥外墙，屋子里整日闷沉沉的。
There was only a small window opposite the concrete wall of the hotel, and the room was stuffy all day.
一家三口照例又睡到了11点，“早饭那顿就省了”。
As usual, the family slept until eleven o'clock. "Breakfast will be over."
有工作的时候，她睡不了多久，要早晨6点起床，骑40分钟的电动车到达雇主的家，晚上6点才结束一天的工作。
When she has a job, she can't sleep long enough to get up at 6 a. m., take a 40-minute electric bike to her employer's house and finish the day at 6 p. m.
干活的日子睡得踏实，现在，每天都睡不上一个整觉，沙发上伸不开腿，心里又因为没法赚钱着急，实在困得不行了，才能眯一会儿，没多久就醒了。
Now, I can't sleep a whole night, I can't stretch my legs on the sofa, I'm too sleepy to make money. I can't get a squint for a while, and soon wake up.
听新闻里说要少出门，多通风。
Listen to the news about going out less and getting more ventilation.
陈红打开那扇灰色的窗，但没有风。
Chen Hong opened the grey window, but there was no wind.
她把门也打开了，只留下一道帘子。
She opened the door, leaving only a curtain.
午饭是面条，给儿子打两个鸡蛋，她和丈夫吃一个，配点咸菜，吃过饭又躺回沙发。
Lunch is noodles, give her son two eggs, she and her husband eat one, with pickled vegetables, after dinner and lying back on the sofa.
房间里只有容纳一人走动的空间，他们通常都各自躺在床上或者沙发上。
There is only room for one person to move around. They usually lie on their beds or on sofas.
下午，孩子实在无聊，想跟爸妈一起打扑克，陈红不愿意，“玩什么玩，闹心劲。
In the afternoon, the children really boring, want to play poker with their parents, Chen Hong would not like, "What to play, fun.
”她正在盯着手机，再一次查看和疫情有关的消息，“新型肺炎疫情实时播报”，就在她手机通知页面的第一栏。
She was staring at her cell phone and looking again at the news about the outbreak, "New Pneumonia Live Broadcast," in the first column of her mobile-phone announcement page.
陈红第一次这么关注新闻，每天都要看好几遍手机上的疫情动态，亲友群里转发的文章几乎都会点进去看，“提心吊胆的”。
Chen Hong for the first time so much attention to the news, every day to see several times on the mobile phone situation, relatives and friends will forward the article will almost point to see, "fear."
疫情的消息几乎成为这间房子里三个人仅剩的话题。
News of the outbreak was almost the only topic left for the three of us in the house.
又过了一个星期，陈红终于盼来丈夫原定上班的日子，上班就意味着能按时发工资。
Another week later, Chen Hong finally looked forward to her husband's scheduled day at work, which meant being able to pay her wages on time.
但他们只等来了人事发来的一条消息，陈红所在的小区出现了一例确诊病例，单位通知陈红的丈夫，继续在家隔离14天。
But they only waited for the personnel sent a message, Chen Hong's community appeared a confirmed case, the unit informed Chen Hong's husband, continue to isolate at home for 14 days.
看着微信账户里的那点儿钱，陈红有些发愁。
Looking at the small amount of money in the micro-letter account, Chen Hong a little worried.
年前置办完新衣服，原本就只剩下不到1000块，这是他们一家三口最后的生活费。
After finishing the new clothes in 2000, they had less than 1000 yuan left. It was the last living expenses of the three of them.
倘若再不开工，她只能向姐姐借钱熬过继续隔离的14天。
If she did not start again, she would have to borrow money from her sister to survive the 14 days of continued isolation.
同为育儿嫂，陈红和同行们大多面临着相似的处境，因为家庭收入低，决定去一线城市打工，每个月挣来的钱都花在刀刃上，没有多余的积蓄。
Chen and her peers face a similar situation, with low household incomes and a decision to work in first-tier cities, where the money they earn each month is spent on knives and has no spare savings.
47岁的育儿嫂周爱玲在这个假期回了老家山东，手机里收到了老板通知暂缓返岗的消息。
Sister-in-law Zhou Ailing, 47, returned to her hometown of Shandong this holiday season and received a warning from her boss on her mobile phone not to return home.
开工的日子一推再推，原本2月10号前可以返岗，在北京隔离14天就上班，但老家的村子至今还封着，她才开始着急自己的收入。
After pushing back the start of the project, she was able to return to work before February 10 and work 14 days in isolation in Beijing, but the village was still sealed before she began to worry about her income.
平时丈夫在家种地，照看孩子，一家人的各项开支都靠她在北京的这份工资。
Usually the husband at home to plant land, take care of the children, the family's expenses are dependent on her wages in Beijing.
小型家政公司的老板眼看着就要借钱度日，接到每日人物的电话前，徐莲正在和银行的职员聊信用卡贷款的业务，她算了算手里的钱，大概只能撑到3月份，之后房租钱都付不起了。
Xu was talking to the bank staff about the credit card loan business before he got a call from a daily person.She calculated that she would only have enough money in her hand to last until March, after which she could not pay the rent.
往常店内每个月的毛利大约两万块，大多是依靠新的订单，老客户换人对中介来说没有利润。
The average monthly gross profit in the store is about 20,000, mostly based on new orders, old customer turnover is no profit for the intermediary.
一直不能接新单就没有收入，每个月还需要支付一万左右的房租钱。
Unable to keep up-to-date, I have no income and need to pay about 10,000 yuan a month for rent.
没了阿姨，公司暂时不能履约，以前收的中介费可能需要退回。
Without aunt, the company is temporarily unable to perform, the intermediary fees previously collected may need to be refunded.
形势并不乐观。
The situation is not encouraging.
2月8日，58到家母公司到家集团的CEO陈小华在接受《财新》采访时说，如果在一两周后，新冠疫情的新增数量大规模下降，那么对未来就有乐观的预期。
In an interview with Caixin on Feb. 8, Chen Xiaowa, CEO of 58-year-old parent group Home, told Caixin that if, in a week or two, the number of new cases falls dramatically, there will be optimism about the future.
而若疫情持续影响两三个月，家政行业规模或仅存原来的10%到20%。
If the epidemic continues to affect two or three months, the size of the domestic sector may remain at between 10 and 20 per cent.
▲58同城招聘数据预测，等疫情稳定人们复工后，对家政等服务业人员的需求排在第三位，但前提是家政行业能够保证被需求的服务人员“健康”。
58 Recruitment figures for the same city predict that when the epidemic stabilizes, demand for domestic workers and other services will come in third, but only if the domestic sector can ensure that the service workers in demand are "healthy."
图/ 58同城招聘整理今年春节后的用工高潮已经指望不上了，徐莲只希望国家在疫情后能出台一些政策，减免家政行业的一部分租金，让公司能扛得久一点。
Xu hoped that after the outbreak of the epidemic, the government would introduce some policies to reduce or reduce the rent of the domestic industry so that the company can carry on a little longer.
她只能在电话里安抚着急请人的顾客和同样着急工作的阿姨，她相信等疫情过了总会好的，“雇主在等，阿姨在等，我们也在等。
She had to calm anxious customers and aunts who were equally anxious about their jobs on the phone. She believed that when the epidemic was over, it would be OK.
”愿望5年前，为了供儿子念书，陈红独自来到北京做月嫂，挣的钱比做育儿嫂多一些，一个月能拿到7000元左右。
Five years ago, to support her son in school, Chen Hong came to Beijing to work as a sister-in-law on her own and earned more than a sister-in-law, earning about 7,000 yuan a month.
月嫂一般一次接26天，下户后如果没有别的预约，就只能等着，极少能刚下户，就马上能去另一家。
Sister-in-law generally 26 days at a time, if there is no other appointment after the house, can only wait, very few can just down the door, can immediately go to another.
双方还得面试，价格、技能、眼缘，都得挑。
Both sides also have to interview, price, skills, eye, have to choose.
一年下来，陈红最多只能完整地做6、7个月的月嫂，“连着做谁也受不了。
A year down, Chen Hong can only do a full 6, 7 months of the sister-in-law, "no one can bear to do without.
”有一次，陈红不停歇地干了两个月，回家照镜子，“瘦一圈，都不认识了。
"Once, Chen Hong did not stop working for two months, returned home to look in the mirror," thin circle, do not know.
”白天给月子里的妈妈做饭，三顿正餐和三顿副餐，还有孩子的吃喝拉撒睡，又要打扫卫生，洗衣服。
"During the day she would cook for her mother, have three main meals and three side meals, sleep with the children and clean up and do the laundry.
晚上睡不好，宝宝要醒很多次，她得看着。
Sleep poorly at night, baby to wake up many times, she has to watch.
住家也有许多麻烦事，做饭的时候饭和菜的量得小心掌握，做多了，家里的老人觉得浪费，但做少了，不够吃也为难。
There are also a lot of household troubles, when cooking meals and dishes have to be carefully controlled, do more, the old people at home feel wasteful, but do less, not enough food is difficult.
陈红是个性格直爽的辽宁人，到雇主家的第一件事，就是把自己要注意的事项问得明明白白，比如什么刀切菜，什么刀切水果，她都记着。
Chen Hong is a forthright Liaoning, to the employer's first thing, is to pay attention to the matter clearly asked, such as what knife cut vegetables, what knife cut fruit, she remembered.
碰上过最难缠的雇主，之前别的阿姨待几天就下户了，陈红忍了4个半月。
Had met the most difficult employer, before other aunts stay for a few days on the account, Chen Honglong endured for four and a half months.
遇到合得来的雇主，她掏心窝子对待，别人多给了一个月5000元的工资，她要拿出来4000给孩子买东西，改日送上门去。
When she met an agreeable employer, she paid 5000 yuan more per month. She would take out 4000 to buy things for her children and send them to the door another day.
干了一年月嫂后，陈红觉得自己年纪大了，白天黑夜地干活，“人都垮了”，于是改上白天的班，只做育儿嫂，“晚上能睡觉就行”，但工资也降，一个月不到5000块，只能维持家里的基本开支。
After a year in office, Chen Hong felt that she was old, working day and night, and "people are breaking down." So she switched to a daytime shift and worked only as a nursing sister-in-law, with a reduced salary of less than $5,000 a month to cover the family's basic expenses.
两年前，陈红的丈夫做生意，不慎赔了钱，欠下10万块的外债，于是丈夫也来了北京打工。
Two years ago, Chen Hong's husband did business, inadvertently lost money, owed 100,000 yuan of foreign debt, and her husband came to Beijing to work.
每个月盘算着要是没有大的支出，陈红的工资一到手就拿去还债，“不敢搁手里搁着，搁手里就花了就没有了。
Every month, if there is no major expenditure, Chen Hong's wages as soon as the hands to pay off the debt, "dare not put on the shelf, put in their hands spent no.
”一家人靠丈夫的5000块工资生活，每个月要交2000块房租，还要供孩子的学费和吃穿。
The family lives on her husband's 5,000-dollar salary, pays 2,000 yuan a month for rent and pays for school fees and food and clothing.
夫妻两人一个月有8天的休息日，但他们几乎不休息，而是去当小时工，“一天一百块钱，回来够吃好几天。
The couple had eight days off a month, but they hardly rested and went to work part-time. "A hundred dollars a day, and they came back for a few days.
”陈红不知道自己还能在北京做多久的育儿嫂。
Chen does not know how long she can stay in Beijing to raise a child.
市场对育儿嫂年龄的要求越来越严苛，陈红就见过一些雇主，只要四十岁以下的阿姨，如果不能做育儿嫂，其它家政服务的薪水就更低了，但她还是想继续在北京工作。
The market is becoming more demanding about the age of the wife, and Chen has met employers who want to continue working in Beijing as long as their aunts under the age of 40 are paid less for other domestic services if they are unable to work as a child-rearing nurse.
老家的地租了出去，屋子里落满灰尘，门窗都旧了。
The land in my hometown was rented out, the house was dusty and the doors and windows were old.
她说，“回家干啥，守着大空房子，要啥啥没有。
'What are you doing at home, guarding the big empty house, 'she says.
”陈红太想出去工作了，闷在出租屋里半个月，瘦了两斤多。
Chen Hongtai wanted to go out to work and spent half a month in a rental house, losing more than two jin.
她希望可以早点把债还完，再为儿子挣下一栋楼房。
She hoped that she could pay off the debt earlier and build a house for her son.
武汉医生李文亮去世的那天，她在被窝里为他偷偷抹了眼泪，医护人员原本是自己羡慕的行业，却面临更艰难的处境。
Wuhan doctor Li Wenliang died that day, she secretly wipes tears for him in the bedclothes, the medical staff originally envied the profession, but faces more difficult situation.
她说，“俺们一点也不想给国家添乱。
"We don't want to mess with the country at all.
”一家人极少出门，买菜的时候要先看看超市人多不多，等人少的时候再进去。
"Families rarely go out, and when shopping, check to see how many people in the supermarket are before going in when there are fewer.
上楼和下楼的时候走楼梯，不坐电梯，尽量不接触公共空间，回到家，全身的衣服都得换一遍。
When you go upstairs and downstairs, take the stairs, do not take the elevator, try not to touch the public space, back home, all clothes have to be changed.
这些天，她家附近超市的菜价贵了，以前一棵白菜2、3块钱，现在10来块钱，买了两棵白菜花了26块钱，豆角、茄子6、7块钱一斤，买上几个就10来块钱，吃不了几顿，她还是放弃了，买了土豆、萝卜这些能存住的菜，计算好一家三口大约一个星期的菜量，花了一百多。
A cabbage of 2 or 3 yuan, now about 10 yuan, two cabbages cost 26 yuan, beans, eggplant 6, 7 yuan a catty, a few dollars for a few meals, she gave up, bought potatoes, radishes, and calculated the amount of food a family of three could eat for about a week.
账上的钱只剩下不到100块了。
There is less than 100 dollars left in the account.
陈红和雇主商量，等到下一个阶段过去，也许就能上班。
Chen Hong discussed with her employer that she might be able to go to work when the next stage was over.
但北京市疾控中心要求家政人员佩戴口罩上岗，陈红数了数，一家三口能用的口罩只剩下7个。
But Beijing CDC required domestic staff to wear masks on duty, Chen Hongcount, a family of three can only use the remaining seven masks.
元宵节前，一场大雪降临北京，雪后起了风，陈红从沙发上站起来，把窗户开了一点儿缝。
Before the Lantern Festival, a heavy snow fell on Beijing, after the snow began to wind, Chen Hong rose from the sofa, opened the window a little.
那天的风大，终于沿着缝儿，吹进了陈红的小屋。
It was a windy day, and finally along the seam, blowing into Chen Hong's hut.
▲ 图/ 视觉中国（除孙梅外，文中受访者皆为化名）每人互动这个假期，你找家政了么？文章为每日人物原创侵权必究。
2007-9-19 19: 19 [hide] [/ color] [/ color] [/ color] [color = Red] [color = Red] [/ color] [/ color] [/ color] [color = Red]
每人作者。
Author per person.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
已喜欢，对作者说句悄悄话。
Like it, whisper to the author.
发送给作者。
Send to author.
最多40字，当前共字。
Up to 40 words, currently in common.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
当北上广没有育儿嫂。
There is no Sister-in-law in northern China.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "每日人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; everyday & quot;.
var msg_title = "当北上广没有育儿嫂";。
var msg _ title = & quot; When & quot; When & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "“雇主在等，阿姨在等，我们也在等。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "The employer is waiting; Aunt is waiting; and we're waiting.
”";。
";;
var title ="每日人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; everyday & quot;.
