这届毕业生，困在家里。
This class of graduates, stuck at home.
每人作者。
Author per person.
每日人物                      。
Daily characters.
每日人物。
Daily characters.
轻商业，懂生活。
Light business, understand life.
。
.
2020年和王晟一样的应届高校毕业生有874万，比去年多出40万人。
In 2020, there were 8.74 million fresh college graduates like Sheng Wang, 400,000 more than last year.
开学推迟，春招冷清，疫情打乱了这届毕业生找工作的阵脚。
Postponement of the start of the school year, cold recruitment spring, the epidemic disrupted this class of graduates looking for work.
走不出家门的他们，现在能做的只有时刻守在屏幕前，关注着不时跳出的招聘信息，揣测着春招的形势。
Unable to get out of their homes, all they can do now is to stay in front of the screen, pay attention to the recruitment messages that pop up from time to time, and speculate on the situation of spring recruitment.
文 |都芃编辑 | 楚明运营 |山山即将毕业的王晟，至今还没有找到工作。
Ariel's soon-to-graduate Zhishan Mountain has not yet found a job.
希望原本寄托在鼠年开年的春招上。
The hope originally reposed in the spring of the mouse year.
寒假回家时，王晟想着过完年早点回学校准备春季招聘。
When he came home from winter vacation, Sheng Wang thought of returning to school early next year to prepare for spring recruitment.
但随着疫情爆发，1月23日武汉正式封城，他开始感觉有些不妙。
But with the outbreak of the outbreak and the official closure of Wuhan on January 23, he began to feel a little bad.
不断加强的防疫措施也印证了他的直觉，2月1日，学校延迟开学，任何人不准提前返校，具体开学时间等候通知。
His intuition was also confirmed by the strengthening of preventive measures. On 1 February, schools were delayed and no one was allowed to return to school earlier than scheduled.
各类高校毕业生的现场招聘会也被要求暂停。
On-site job fairs for college graduates of all types were also suspended.
如今，回想起寒假前自己做出的两个选择，王晟感到有些懊恼。
Now, in retrospect of the two choices he made before his winter vacation, Sheng Wang feels a little chagrined.
一是，他自觉落后别人太多，放弃了考研；第二个就是去年秋天放弃了一份唾手可得的offer。
First, he consciously fell behind others too much, gave up the examination; the second is last fall gave up a readily available offer.
和王晟一样的应届毕业生有874万，比去年多出40万人。
Like Sheng Wang, there are 8.74 million fresh graduates, 400,000 more than last year.
他们中的一部分还没有找到工作。
Some of them have yet to find work.
计划赶不上变化，疫情打乱了王晟他们找工作的节奏。
Plans have not kept pace with the changes, and the epidemic has disrupted Sheng Wang's pace of finding work.
▲今年高校毕业生数量创历史新高，就业形势严峻。
This year the number of college graduates hit a record high, employment situation is grim.
图/梨视频截图看不见摸不着王晟学的是应用电子专业，还拿过不少奖学金。
Shengxue Wang is majoring in applied electronics and has won a lot of scholarships.
秋招刚开始他就收到了新能源汽车配件生产企业的offer，转正后薪资6000元。
Autumn move just received the new energy auto parts production enterprise offer, straightened after the 6000 yuan salary.
这对读普通高校的他来说，可以接受。
It is acceptable for him to study in ordinary colleges and universities.
他把这个消息告诉家里人后，有亲戚担心“万一是骗补贴的，跑路了怎么办”。
After he told the news to his family, some of his relatives worried "what if I had to cheat on the subsidy and run away?"
更主要的是，作为山东人，他一直被父母期待能够找一个有编制的工作，“这样说出去他们有面子”。
More importantly, as a Shandong national, he has been expected by his parents to find a structured job, "to say so they have face."
因此，他决定放弃到手的工作，转而听从亲戚建议准备考技师学校的“教师编”。
So he decided to give up his job and take his relatives' advice to prepare "teachers" for the technician school.
准备了两个多月后，王晟才知道自己不符合技师学校教师的招聘要求。
After more than two months of preparation, Shengya Wang only knew that he did not meet the requirements for the recruitment of technicians school teachers.
此时秋招已经接近尾声，看着招聘会上所剩无几的企业，王晟只能转而扑向来年的春招。
At this point autumn move has come to an end, looking at the job fair left few enterprises, Sheng Wang can only turn to the Spring Festival.
除了完成剩余的毕业设计，王晟现在每天主要的事情是浏览各个招聘网站，尽可能地搜寻招聘信息。
In addition to completing the rest of his graduation project, Sheng Wang now spends most of his day browsing job sites looking for as much information as possible.
学校就业网、招聘公众号、就业微信群，各类能获取招聘信息的渠道都在他的搜寻范围内。
The school employment network, public recruitment numbers, employment micro-groups, all kinds of access to recruitment information within his search scope.
“就业群我都没有屏蔽，看见老师发招聘信息我就赶紧看。
"I did not shield the employment group, see the teacher sends the recruitment information I hasten to read.
”只要薪资可以接受，从对口专业到不限专业，他看到条件符合的岗位就会投简历过去，然后继续刷新等待回复。
As long as the salary is acceptable, from major to major, he sees a well-qualified position and sends a resume, which he continues to refresh while awaiting a reply.
“每天不是盯着电脑就是看手机，我原来手机是静音的，现在也不敢静音了，怕错过电话。
"Every day either staring at the computer or looking at the mobile phone, my original phone is silent, now dare not silent, afraid to miss the phone.
”但日子一天天过去，除了眼睛经常有些干涩，王晟还没等到结果。
But as the days passed, Sheng Wang did not wait for the result, except that his eyes were often a little dry.
同是今年毕业的张晓柔终于接到面试通知，只不过方式变了。
Zhang Xiaorou, who also graduated this year, was finally notified of the interview, but only in a different way.
为了避免人员接触聚集，多数招聘企业将面试从线下改为了线上的“无接触面试”。
To avoid crowds, most recruiters switched interviews from offline to online "no contact interviews."
流程大同小异，都要求面试者通过摄影头和麦克风与面试官进行视频对话。
The flow is much the same, requiring the interviewer to have a video conversation with the interviewer through a camera head and microphone.
▲受到疫情影响，许多企业年后招聘改为线上模式。
Affected by the epidemic, many enterprises after the recruitment of online model.
图/Moka《2020企业招聘受疫情影响情况调研》分析张晓柔知道不同于线下面试更看重整体的着装和仪态，视频摄像头“最多只能拍到上半身”，对表情和神态的管理变得格外重要。
Zhang Xiaorou knows that unlike offline interviews, which place more emphasis on overall attire and posture, video cameras "capture only the upper body at most," which makes the management of facial expressions and looks all the more important.
她经常在卫生间对着镜子练习表情，反复背诵着已经准备好的回答。
She often practiced her expression in the bathroom in front of a mirror, repeating the answers she had prepared.
有时她还会和闺蜜打开视频聊天，模拟面试场景。
Sometimes she would open a video chat with her girlfriend to simulate the interview scene.
她学的是英语专业，在面试时经常会被要求进行英语的听说读写。
She majored in English and was often required to speak, speak and write English during interviews.
转为视频面试后，张晓柔不知道这能否顺利进行，“要是用英语交流的时候网络卡了怎么办？”张晓柔在不大的家里来回走动，想选一处合适的地方做视频背景。
Turning to video interview, Zhang did not know whether this can smoothly, "if the English communication time network card how to do?" Zhang Xiaorou in the small home back and forth, want to choose a suitable place to do a video background.
她选在了自己房间的书柜前，还特意把房间收拾了，避免画面杂乱的尴尬。
She chose the bookcase in her room, and made a point of cleaning the room to avoid the awkwardness of the scene.
但她还担心，“万一父母在外面听，不敢发挥。
But she also worries, "in case my parents listen outside, I'm afraid to play it.
”不同于大公司较高的知名度和完善的流程机制，中小公司的线上招聘充满更大的不确定性。
Unlike large companies, which have high visibility and well-established process mechanisms, online recruitment by small and medium-sized companies is fraught with greater uncertainty.
许多中小公司在招聘公告的面试环节中只写了“视频面试“四个字，别无其它。
Many small and medium-sized companies only wrote the word "video interview" during job interviews, and nothing else.
究竟通过何种方式进行，事先也不知道，“是下载专门的办公软件，还是直接跟HR用微信视频？”对于不知名的中小公司，张晓柔在选择时还有自己的考量。
How to do this is not known in advance, "whether to download specialized office software, or directly with HR micro-video?" For unknown small and medium-sized companies, Zhang Xiaorou in the choice of their own considerations.
秋招的时候，一到面试公司的楼下，她就会开始“打量”公司，交通是否便利、公司面积多大、工作环境如何，这些都是张晓柔考虑的因素。
As soon as she got to the bottom of the interview, she would start looking at the company, whether it was convenient, how big the company was and what the working environment was.
她认为这些能直观反映出一个公司的实力和企业文化，“有些公司的工作环境就很压抑，看了就让人不想去。
These, she says, are a direct reflection of a company's strengths and culture. "Some companies work in repressive environments that people don't want to go to.
”转为线上面试后，这些最为直观的信息都无从得知。
After switching to online interviews, none of the most intuitive information is known.
张晓柔更担心的是，“如果公司都没去过就直接签约，我总感觉不太放心，万一是骗子怎么办？”王晟同样对线上面试有疑虑。
Zhang is more worried, "If the company has not been to sign directly, I always feel uneasy, what if it is a liar?" Wang Sheng also has doubts about online interviews.
他跑过几场招聘会，直接面对面地与招聘官对话，获取关键信息也快，“比在网上问来问去效率高多了”。
He goes through job fairs, talks directly to recruiters face-to-face, gets key information quickly, and "is much more efficient than asking questions online."
坐在家里，揣测着网线那头看不见摸不着的企业，王晟总觉有些无力。
Sitting at home, speculating on the invisible enterprise on the net, Sheng Wang always feels weak.
求职心态变了学习财务专业的林秋在秋招快要结束的时候收到了一家房地产企业的offer，公司希望她寒假结束后能尽快去实习，但她打算春招再投简历看看。
The company hopes to get an internship as soon as her winter vacation is over, but she plans to send another resume this spring.
林秋不知道是许多公司推迟了春招还是岗位确实减少了，她觉得今年的春招有些冷清。
Lin Qiu did not know is that many companies delayed spring move or the post really reduced, she felt this year's spring move a little lonely.
因为疫情原因，元宵节过后仍有大量企业无法按时复工，企业正常经营受到影响，对新增员工的需求也随之减少。
Because of the epidemic, the Lantern Festival after a large number of enterprises can not return to work on time, the normal operation of enterprises affected, the demand for new staff has been reduced.
林秋认为虽然每个公司都需要财务人员，但这部分需求相对稳定，招聘岗位多源自于企业扩张规模或员工离职后产生的岗位空缺，“我们专业跟经济形势关系很大，本来今年就不好找工作，疫情一来更麻烦了”。
Lin Qiu thinks that although each company needs finance personnel, but this part of the demand is relatively stable, recruitment is mostly due to the expansion of enterprises or staff after the job vacancy, "our professional and economic situation is very relevant, this year was not easy to find jobs, the outbreak of more trouble."
她还猜测，因为疫情的影响，原本计划在年后辞职的人会犹豫，而中小企业也没有进一步扩张的想法和能力，“我们专业现在岗位应该会比较少，找工作有点难”。
She also speculated that, because of the epidemic, people who had planned to resign after a year would hesitate, and that small and medium-sized enterprises did not have the idea and ability to expand further.
财务专业的林秋知道，疫情爆发后，企业生产经营受到影响，但运营成本尤其是员工工资并不会因此减少。
Finance professional Lin Qiu knows, after outbreak, enterprise production and operation is affected, but operation cost, especially staff salary won't be reduced as a result.
大企业还能够靠现金流支撑一段时间，而抗风险能力较差的中小企业则可能无力支撑。
Large companies can also support themselves with cash flow for a while, while small and medium-sized enterprises, which are less risk-resistant, may not be able to sustain them.
即使勉强撑过，短时间内也难以进行大规模扩张，招聘需求难免降低。
Even if it survives, large-scale expansion will be difficult in the short term and recruitment needs will inevitably fall.
这也正是王晟所担心的。
This is what Shengong Wang is worried about.
他知道，虽然向往大企业，但以自身条件找一个成熟稳定的中小企业才是现实目标，“大企业只要985或211的毕业生，我可能连简历都过不了。
He knows that, while looking forward to big business, finding a mature and stable SME on my own terms is a realistic goal. "As long as 985 or 211 graduates of a large corporation, I may not even pass my resume.
”他不得不担心，中小企业的经营困境最终会直接传导至和他一样的普通院校毕业生身上。
He has to worry that the plight of small and medium-sized enterprises will eventually trickle down to ordinary college graduates like him.
在874万的应届毕业生中，占据大多数的仍是毕业于普通院校的学生，”我们人是最多的，找工作也是最难的。
Of the 8.74 million recent graduates, the majority are still graduates from ordinary colleges and universities. "We are the most numerous and the job search is the most difficult.
”▲图/视觉中国在北京一所高校读影视专业研究生的师卓今年夏天也将毕业，但他也没有找到合适的工作，原本以电影行业为目标的他感觉希望愈加渺茫。
Zhu Zhuo, a graduate student majoring in film and television at a university in Beijing, will also graduate this summer, but he hasn't found a suitable job and hopes of targeting the film industry are fading.
电影行业在疫情爆发后首当其冲，原定春节档上映的多部贺岁片在疫情面前都选择了撤档，从院线到幕后制作公司都无一幸免。
The film industry bore the brunt of the outbreak, with many New Year films scheduled for release during the Spring Festival holiday having been pulled back from theaters to behind-the-scenes studios.
师卓原本应聘计划中的一家电影公司迟迟没有推出春招计划，“我听说他们可能要取消春招了，他们已经算是很大的公司了，小公司情况更可想而知了。
"I heard that they might have to cancel their Spring Festival moves. They are already very big companies, so it's even easier to imagine small companies.
”大公司缩减招聘规模，小公司则可能无法挺过寒冬。
Large companies are scaling back recruitment, and smaller companies may not survive the winter.
大型的影视制作公司有时会将部分业务外包给中小公司，以提高效率，降低成本。
Large studios sometimes outsource some of their business to small and medium-sized companies to increase efficiency and reduce costs.
行业链条环环相扣，中小公司如果一直拿不到大公司的回款来支付运营成本可能很容易就垮了。
The chain of industries is so interconnected that small and medium-sized companies can easily collapse if they do not receive cash from large companies to cover their operating costs.
师卓年前实习的一家电影公司一直没有让员工回去上班，“他们回去了也没什么事干”。
A film company that worked as an intern for Shi Zhuo years ago never sent employees back to work. "They didn't do anything when they got back."
以前做影视项目的公司，现在为了生存从广告到小视频，师卓什么活儿都开始接了。
Companies that used to do film and television projects are now starting to do everything from advertising to video to survival.
虽然那些不是当初想做的，但看着招聘网站上符合自身条件的公司寥寥无几，师卓现在觉得“能混口饭吃就不错了”。
While few companies have looked at job sites that meet their own requirements, Shi now says "it's good to be able to eat like a pig."
林秋庆幸自己有一份工作保底。
Lin Qiu is glad she has a job security.
但学校不开学，林秋便没有住处回去实习。
But school does not open, Lin Qiu has no place to go back to practice.
线上实习并非对所有行业适用，财务工作有时不方便在线上进行，“有的东西需要公司内网做，而且票据现在不在我这儿。
Online internships are not for all industries, finance is not always easy to do online, and "there are things that need to be done on the company intranet and the paper is not with me right now.
”但在家多待一天，林秋的焦虑就多增加一份。
But staying at home for an extra day increased Lin Qiu's anxiety.
她听说有同学签好的三方协议被招聘企业单方面违约了。
She heard that a trilateral agreement signed by her classmate had been unilaterally violated by the recruiting firm.
还没有签三方协议的她担心再这样下去，难保企业不会反悔，原本确定的工作也会变得不确定。
She has not signed the tripartite agreement, she fears that if this continues, it will be difficult to ensure that enterprises will not renege, the original identified work will become uncertain.
许多毕业生的求职心态也在疫情影响下不知不觉地发生着微妙的变化。
The job-seeking mentality of many graduates is also under the impact of the epidemic unwittingly subtle changes.
王晟在看招聘信息时不会再考虑创业公司了。
Sheng Wang will no longer think about startups when he looks at job offers.
如果员工人数太少，或者成立时间过短，他也不会再考虑，“不想去太小的公司，风险太大了。
If the number of employees is too small, or too short a time to set up, he will no longer consider, "do not want to go too small companies, the risk is too great.
”晓柔也有这样的担心，如果面对突发情况自己会不会失业。
Xiaorou shares the concern about whether she will lose her job in the face of a sudden situation.
虽然倾向于选择更加稳定的大型企业，但岗位数量终归有限，普通院校出身的她面对大企业“僧多粥少”的岗位机会也没有太多办法，“先就业再择业吧”。
Although she prefers to choose larger, more stable companies, the number of jobs is still limited, ordinary college-born women in the face of large enterprises "opportunities," employment before career.
公务员是不少人的救命稻草，疫情爆发后多地宣布公务员考试或面试时间向后推迟，利用这段时间在家备考公务员也是他们缓解就业焦虑的办法之一。
Civil servants have been a lifeline for many, with delays in public service examinations or interviews often announced after the outbreak of the epidemic, and the use of this time to prepare civil servants for examinations at home is also a way to ease their employment worries.
王晟虽然不认同父母只想让他进入体制内的想法，但“回家考事业编”也是他给自己想好的退路。
Although Sheng Wang disagrees with the idea that his parents only want him to enter the system, the "Home Examination Book" is his way out of the system.
也有幸运的与大部分行业遭遇寒冬形成鲜明对比的是，一些互联网行业提前迎接了春天。
Fortunately for most industries in contrast to the cold winter, some of the Internet industry ahead of the spring.
夏天就要毕业的赵海也被疫情困在了家里，但和其他毕业生不同，整个过年期间他都没闲下来。
Zhao, who is due to graduate in the summer, was also stranded at home, but unlike other graduates, he remained idle throughout the Lunar New Year.
在成为在线教师前，赵海的职业规划是互联网公司的运营或产品经理。
Before becoming an online teacher, Zhao's career plan was that of an internet company's operations or product manager.
秋招后他进入了一家在线教育公司做运营实习生。
He joined an online education company as an operating intern after the autumn move.
早在疫情爆发前，在线教育已经算是互联网行业风口，赵海同样看准这一点，“疫情前我们就很缺主讲老师”。
Long before the outbreak of the epidemic, online education has been the wind mouth of the Internet industry, Zhao Hai is also sure of this point, "we are very short of teachers before the epidemic."
赵海在北京一所师范院校读研究生，虽然不是师范专业，但同学毕业后当老师的比比皆是。
Zhao Hai is a graduate student at a teacher training college in Beijing. Though he is not majoring in teacher training, many students graduate and become teachers.
虽然也关注教育行业，但他从来没想过做老师，“我之前主要就是想做互联网运营，但当时公司跟我说缺主讲教师，说我的学历合适就让我试试。
Although he also focused on the education sector, he never thought of becoming a teacher. "I wanted to be an internet operator, but the company told me that I wanted to be a lecturer.
”他决定抓住这个机会。
He decided to seize the opportunity.
签约后一年底薪是25万，超过大多数同龄人。
One year after signing up, the base salary was 250,000, more than most of my age.
但压力同样随之而来，各种考核标准让从来没做过老师的他在刚开始时感到痛苦，“磨课那段时间挺难受，但好歹是挺过来了。
But it also came with the stress of testing standards that made him miserable at first when he never taught. "It was tough at the time, but somehow he survived.
”真正面向镜头为数以万计的学生上课前，“磨课”是每一个新老师的必经之路。
"Truly camera-oriented for tens of thousands of students before class," grind lessons "is a must for every new teacher.
赵海需要将所有的教学内容熟记于心，并按照教学计划先给听课老师讲一遍，然后接受一轮又一轮的打磨，“你的课得有干货，还要足够吸引人，不然别人凭什么选择你。
Zhao Hai need to learn all the teaching content by heart, and according to the teaching plan to tell the teacher, and then accept round after round grinding, "your class must have dry goods, but also attractive enough, otherwise others will choose you.
”每次开课前，他面对直播镜头时仍然会有点紧张，“我们是直播课，说错了就是说错了，不能剪辑。
"Every time before class began, he was still a little nervous about the live footage." We were live, so it was wrong to say it was wrong, not edited.
”与其他尚无着落的毕业生相比，赵海无疑是幸运的。
Zhao is unquestionably lucky compared with other uncharted graduates.
有媒体形容疫情期间的在线教育彷佛正在经历“大跃进”。
Some media described online education during the epidemic as if it was undergoing a "great leap forward."
困在家的学生和家长到处寻找着能在线上学习的课程，他所在的公司也在此时加大投入，推出低价课程吸引学生和家长试听，同时在不断地招聘新的主讲教师。
As homebound students and parents search for online courses, his company is stepping up its investment in offering low-cost classes to attract students and parents, as well as recruiting new lecturers.
他觉得这对线上教育来说是个机会，虽然不会迅速见效，但是个朝阳产业，“现在其实更多是培养家长的线上教育观念，主要看以后的发展。
He sees it as an opportunity for online education, but it's not going to work fast, but it's a sunrise industry. "Now it's more about nurturing parents' ideas about online education, and it's about future development.
”不只线上教育，能填满人们居家空闲时间的在线行业都迎来了机遇。
Not just online education, but the online industry, which fills people's free time at home, offers opportunities.
嘉奇原本以为疫情能让他在家多休息几天，年前他在一家互联网娱乐公司的产品运营岗位实习， “初七一过我就开始线上实习了”。
Cargill, who thought the outbreak would give him a few more days off at home, worked as an intern for a product operation at an internet entertainment company.
嘉奇的工作是提高产品的用户活跃度。
Garge's job is to increase the user activity of the product.
为了抓住这个人们都在家百无聊赖的好时机，他在家加班的时间比在公司还长，“正是日活高的时候，比以前更忙了。
To catch a moment when people are bored at home, he spends more time at home than at work. "It's when life is high that he's busier than ever.
”虽然还没拿到正式的offer，但嘉奇相信互联网行业不会受疫情影响，“说不定还会扩招”。
Although he hasn't yet received a formal offer, Garage believes the industry will not be affected by the epidemic and "may even expand."
他关注的互联网求职公众号每天都在推实习或者招聘信息，”很多都是和娱乐有关的“。
His Internet job-hunting public numbers are pushing for internships or job postings every day, "many of them about entertainment."
困在家里的王晟在网上发帖来排解自己的焦虑。
Locked at home, Sheng Wang posts online to ease his anxiety.
网友在帖子里鼓励他，“我觉得你已经很厉害了，只是运气还没到。
"I think you are already very strong, but the luck has not arrived.
”回顾这个有点失败的求职季，他也开始释怀，盼望疫情早点过去，一切都能回到正轨。
Looking back on this somewhat frustrating job-hunting season, he is also looking forward to seeing the epidemic over and things returning to normal.
▲图/《喜剧之王》截图（文中王晟、张晓柔、林秋、赵海和嘉奇为化名）每人互动你身边的应届生找工作情况如何？文章为每日人物原创侵权必究。
2007-9-19 15: 19 [hide] [/ b] [/ b] [/ b] [/ color] [/ color] [/ color] [/ size] [/ size] [/ size] [/ size] [/ size] [/ size] [/ size] [/ size]
每人作者。
Author per person.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
已喜欢，对作者说句悄悄话。
Like it, whisper to the author.
发送给作者。
Send to author.
最多40字，当前共字。
Up to 40 words, currently in common.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
这届毕业生，困在家里。
This class of graduates, stuck at home.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "每日人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; everyday & quot;.
var msg_title = "这届毕业生，困在家里";。
var msg _ title = & quot; this class, at home and at home;;
var msg_desc = "疫情会影响这届毕业生找工作吗？";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot
var title ="每日人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; everyday & quot;.
