今年，你还有勇气辞职吗？。
Do you still have the courage to resign this year?
每人作者。
Author per person.
每日人物                      。
Daily characters.
每日人物。
Daily characters.
轻商业，懂生活。
Light business, understand life.
。
.
这次疫情，让很多年轻人重新思考自己的职场下一步。
The epidemic has led many young people to rethink their next step in the workplace.
可能的裁员，泡汤的年终奖，不太明朗的求职形势和疫情下复工的危险，是每个职场人或多或少要面临的处境。
Possible layoffs, failing year-end bonuses, unclear job-hunting conditions and the danger of returning to work in an epidemic situation are situations that every worker must face to a greater or lesser extent.
稳定还是高薪，健康还是金钱，工作的意义感，所处的生命阶段，这些驱使我们做出职业选择的因素，被重新摆在了台面上博弈，每个人的选择不尽相同。
Stability or high pay, health or money, the sense of meaning at work, the stage in life that drives our career choices are back on the table, and everyone's choices are different.
文 |席拉编辑 | 金匝运营 |山山被打乱的辞职计划李司棋原本打算年后向老板提辞职。
Rita Lau & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; &
这之前，她已经在重庆一家私企做了四年的工程造价师，负责计算工程的建造成本。
She had worked as an engineering price-maker for four years in a private company in Chongqing, where she was responsible for calculating the cost of the project.
和数字打交道的工作劳神费力，对着电脑一坐就是一天，全身神经都是痛的。
Working with numbers takes a lot of effort, sitting in front of a computer for a day and all your nerves hurt.
撑到深夜十一二点下班，脑子一片混沌，步行十五分钟的路，她也宁愿打的，回到小区好几次都被锁在门外，还得叫醒熟睡的保安开门。
She stayed up till eleven or twelve o'clock in the night, her mind wandering for fifteen minutes, and she preferred to fight. She went back to her quarters, locked out several times, and had to wake up the sleeping security guard to open the door.
这不是一个25岁姑娘想要的生活，她决心做到年底就走。
It was not the life a 25-year-old wanted, and she was determined to leave by the end of the year.
春节过后，疫情越发严峻。
The outbreak became more severe after the Spring Festival.
公司的复工时间从2月3号改成10号，10号前一天晚上又临时通知在家办公，李司棋的辞职计划也被打乱了，“发微信或邮件都不够郑重，离职手续也要到公司才能办理。
The company changed its work schedule from February 3 to February 10 and temporarily announced the night before the 10th to work at home, Li Shi-qi's resignation plans have been disrupted, "the message or mail is not serious enough to leave the company can be processed.
”更让她没想到的是，直属上司在开工前几天就打电话催她规划今年的工作。
To her surprise, her immediate supervisor called a few days before work began to urge her to plan for the year.
一开始李司棋还顺从地敷衍过去，直到又一通电话打来，叫她接手一个项目。
At first, Lee was obediently perfunctory until another phone call was made asking her to take over a project.
她一听就很恼火，心里嘟囔：明明还在放假，你给我分项目，万一我不做了呢？索性一句“我没空”抛过去，上司问，“那你在家都做什么？”她答了一句：“我不做了。
Exasperated, she murmured, Give me a sub-project while it's still on vacation, what if I don't do itJust say "I'm not free" and the boss asks, "What are you doing at home?" She replied, "I'm not doing it.
”上司挂断了电话。
The boss hung up the phone.
“应该是被我气到了，”李司棋后来回忆，“但我就是想走了，不想接项目。
"I must have been angry with me," Li Shiqi later recalled. "But I just wanted to go and didn't want to take up the project.
”疫情当头，不是所有人都能像李司棋这么洒脱。
With the epidemic under control, not everyone is as free and easy as Lee.
智联招聘2月2日发布的调研显示，64%的求职者因为这次疫情调整了换工作的计划，还有34%的求职者处于观望状态，走一步看一步。
Sixty-four percent of job-seekers changed their job plans because of the epidemic, while 34 percent were on the sidelines, taking a step-by-step approach, according to a survey released Feb. 2 by the think tank.
陈言就是其中一个。
Statements are one of them.
今年刚满22岁的她是广州一家少儿美术机构的课程顾问。
She turned 22 this year as a course consultant at a children's art institute in Guangzhou.
实体教育行业在这次疫情中大受打击，为了维护客源，她所在的公司2月3号就在微信群里动员，全体教师疫情期间免费给学生上辅导课，业绩第一的校区或员工有奖金——据说由校长级别的领导们自掏腰包。
The real-world education industry has been hit hard by the epidemic, and her company mobilized in a microphone group on Feb. 3 to provide free tutoring to students during the teacher epidemic, with top-performing campuses or employees receiving bonuses - reportedly paid for by principals.
“你能想象隔着屏幕教幼儿园的孩子画画有多难吗？”陈言说。
"Can you imagine how difficult it is to teach a kindergarten child to draw across the screen?" Chen said.
线上复工比正常授课多了至少一倍的工作量，元宵节也不休息，平均每个老师要在几天内辅导30个学生。
Restarting work online is at least twice as much as normal, and the Lantern Festival doesn't break, with each teacher coaching an average of 30 students in a few days.
正式复工这十天，陈言没有丝毫喘息的空间。
The official resumption of work these 10 days, the statement has no breathing space.
上午十点开始一对一授课，每次一小时，一天下来能辅导五六个学生。
One-on-one classes, one-on-one, begin at 10 a.m. and can coach five or six students at the end of the day.
晚上七点到八点是一对三的寒假班辅导课，八点之后还要连开两个会议，十点左右才能结束。
7 to 8 p.m. is a one-to-three winter class remedial class, after 8: 00 will be held back-to-back two meetings, around 10 o'clock before the end.
“有时真的是完全不想工作，就躺在那里，甚至想找别人做假，替我上班。
"Sometimes I really don't want to work at all and I just lie there and try to find someone else to fake it and work for me.
”消极怠工时，总监上午发来的信息，她下午才回，还被总监提醒“干不好就末位淘汰”。
When the negativity slowed down, the director sent in the morning message, which she returned only in the afternoon, and was reminded by the governor that "if you don't do well, you'll end up dead."
陈言本想年后辞职，可疫情一来，未来几个月工作都难找，家人劝她别冲动。
Chen said she wanted to quit her job a year later, but the next few months are hard to find, her family advised her not to impulse.
辞职的念头无法抑制，她只好找同事倾诉。
The thought of quitting was irresistible and she had to confide in her co-workers.
和她同岗位的17个人里，有5个人和她一样打算辞职，但每次都以互相劝阻告终。
Five of her 17 co-workers, like her, plan to resign, but each time they try to dissuade each other.
“特殊时期少说话多做事，灾后不好找工作啊。
"Special time to do more with less talk, post-disaster difficult to find work ah.
”同事这么对陈言说。
"Said the colleague to Chen.
▲受疫情影响，线下教育机构兄弟连于2月6日宣布倒闭。
Influenced by the outbreak, a company of brothers from an online educational institution went out of business on February 6.
图/网络工作价值再博弈突如其来的疫情，打乱了包括李司棋和陈言在内的一些年轻人的职场计划。
The sudden outbreak of value-based replay has disrupted some young people's career plans, including Li Shiqi and Chen Yan.
面对可能的裁员，泡汤的年终奖，不太明朗的求职形势和疫情下复工的危险，那些驱使她们做出职业选择的因素，被重新摆在了台面上博弈：稳定还是高薪，健康还是金钱，工作的意义感，所处的生命阶段……对大多数人来说，纠结是常态。
Faced with the prospect of layoffs, end-of-year bonuses, less-than-clear job-seeking situations, and the dangers of returning to work in an epidemic, the factors that drive them to make career choices are back on the table: stability or high pay, health or money, sense of meaning at work, life stage.
看似坚定如李司棋，在这之前，也至少摇摆了四回。
Seemingly firm as Li Shiqi, before this, also rocked at least four times.
“工作四年，几乎每年提一次辞职。
"Four years of service, almost every year.
”李司棋又补充道，“但每次都没走成。
"Li Shi-qi added," but not every time.
”她是待了四年的老员工，老板不肯轻易放人。
"She had been an old employee for four years and the boss wouldn't let go.
2018年她刚开始带团队，连续两个月凌晨四点才睡。
She started with her team in 2018 and slept at 4 a.m. for two months in a row.
白天要过问组员的进度，传达老板的吩咐，手上的项目做不完，好几次都在办公室哭着通宵。
During the day, I have to check on the progress of the group, pass on the boss' orders, finish the work on hand, and spend several nights crying in the office.
她先后提了两次辞职，老板都不应允，先停了她手头的项目，又给她换了部门。
She resigned twice, and the boss refused, stopping her work on the project and changing her department.
“其实我们公司很好，在重庆造价咨询行业是前几名，但我无法想象自己30岁还在做这行。
"In fact, our company is very good, in Chongqing cost consulting industry is the top, but I can not imagine their 30-year-old is still doing this.
”李司棋今年就要满25岁了，想转行做自己喜欢的绘画和摄影，又担忧自己学无所成，“自身工作太忙，没时间学，一旦辞职，放弃了这几年的积累，去学其他的不知如何下手。
Li, who will turn 25 this year, wants to switch to painting and photography as he likes, fearing that he can do nothing at all. "He is too busy to study," he says.
”直到去年八月，她和相恋多年的高中男友结婚，两三年内就会要小孩，她才发觉时间不等人，关于自己想要的生活，她在笔记本上写了两个关键词：自由和视觉传达设计，再次提出辞职。
It was not until August last year that she married her longtime high school boyfriend and had a baby within two or three years that she realized that time was running out.
“这次我很坚决，老板劝了两个小时，也没改变主意。
"This time I was adamant and the boss talked for two hours without changing his mind.
最后老板没辙了，要我懂得感恩，做到年底再走。
Finally, the boss has no way, I know how to be grateful, until the end of the year.
”李司棋坦白，自己又一次妥协，除了人情外，还有别的考虑：习惯了忙碌后，她觉得没工作没收入的生活很可怕。
Lee confessed to herself that there were other considerations besides the human condition: After getting used to being busy, she felt that living without a job or an income was terrible.
同事里有典型的“工作狂”，每天忙得连聊闲天的功夫都没有，除了上班就是回家。
A typical workaholic is someone who is too busy chatting away every day to get home except for work.
李司棋总忍不住和她对比，“别人都在往上走，你辞了职就像在走下坡路。
Lee could not help but compare with her, "Everyone else is going up, you quit your job as if it was going downhill.
”这次疫情延长的居家假期，恰好打消了她最后一个顾虑。
The extended stay-at-home holiday removed one last concern.
这十多天来，李司棋每天睡到自然醒，做什么全凭喜好，有时看豆瓣、淘宝就是一天，不像工作时，总有无法拒绝的事塞满日程，她好久没体会过这种自由了。
She has not experienced this freedom for a long time. Sometimes she goes to see peas and Taobao for a day. Unlike working days, when she always has to cram her schedule with irresistible things, she hasn't experienced this freedom for a long time.
“上班除了为钱，感觉不到快乐。
"You don't feel happy going to work except for the money.
”李司棋感慨，“不过我能在这个特殊时期提辞职，首先是有经济保障。
"But I can resign at this particular time, above all because of the financial security.
存款虽然不多，但能坚持一年，无房贷无车贷无小孩，自己一个人吃饱就行。
Although the deposit is not much, but can insist on a year, no mortgage car loan no children, their own people eat and fill.
”一边是复工后加倍的工作量和潜在的危险，一边是未来几个月没有工作和收入的生活，豆瓣鹅组就出了这样一个选择题，4299人参与的“2月10日普遍开工，你们选择上班还是辞职？”，投票结果里，92%的人选择了上班或请假往后拖。
On the one hand, the double workload and potential dangers of returning to work, on the one hand, and the lack of work and income in the next few months, on the other hand, the Doubane Goose Group has such a choice.
▲疫情当前，选择辞职的人仍然是少数。
The epidemic is still in the minority among those who have chosen to resign.
图/《未生》剧照有无足够的金钱储蓄，似乎成了疫情期间职场人决定去留的关键。
Whether or not there is enough money saved in the play seems to be the key to workers' decision to stay during the epidemic.
在小组同题讨论“本来打算年后辞职的人，现在什么想法？”下，回答“有存款够你活个一年半载就辞职，没钱很穷就算了”获得了579票的赞同。
What do you think of the people who are going to quit their jobs in a year and a half? "The answer was" You have enough money to quit in a year and a half, and you don't have the money to be poor. "
对出生于1998年的陈言来说，这些因素却通通不在考虑范围内。
None of these factors were taken into account when it came to statements made in 1998.
她觉得在家办公，感染肺炎的风险并不大，虽然嘴上抱怨，但工作量翻倍她也能承受——她所在的岗位以压力大著称，身兼教学销售运营甚至家访多职，平均一个月换一次人，而她已经做了半年。
She feels less at risk of contracting pneumonia from work at home, and can afford to double her workload, despite complaining - her job is famously stressful, teaching-sales operations and even home visits, averaging once a month, while she has been doing it for six months.
“我接受不了的是上司只喜欢拍马屁的人，还特别爱在背后打小报告。
"What I can't accept is that bosses only like to flatter people, but also love to report behind the back.
”陈言说，“我有几个关系比较好的同事都被上司以各种原因弄走了，这种工作环境让我觉得很压抑。
"Several of my better co-workers have been removed by their bosses for various reasons," Chen says.
”市场预测求职形势五月份前都不会好转，所幸她在广州和家人同住，没有租房和三餐的压力，手头的积蓄也足以支撑她半年。
The market forecast that the job market would not improve until May, but fortunately she lived with her family in Guangzhou, where she was under no pressure to rent a house or eat three meals and had enough money on hand to last her six months.
“我比较在意的是家人的看法。
"I care more about what my family thinks.
他们是支持我辞职的，甚至都帮我想好了要做什么，但年后不好找工作，我本来就不够自律，他们担心我一旦适应了无业游民的状态，就不想工作了。
They supported my resignation and even helped me figure out what to do, but I wasn't self-disciplined enough to find a job after a year, and they worried that once I got used to being a loafer, I didn't want to work.
”陈言承认，在轻松但有风险和辛苦但稳定的生活中，她选择了后者。
The statement acknowledges that she chose the latter in a light but risky and hard-earned but steady life.
重新洗牌的职业人生这场疫情让职场人陷入挣扎的同时，也让不同行业的前景重新洗牌。
Re-shuffling the professional life of the epidemic so that people in the workplace struggle, but also let the prospects of different industries reshuffle.
餐饮、酒店、旅游和实体教育行业普遍损失惨重，有的企业已经开始裁员。
The catering, hotel, tourism and physical education sectors have generally suffered heavy losses, with some companies already laying off workers.
和行业一同洗牌的是里边人的命运，原定年后入职的菲比就不幸成了炮灰。
With the industry shuffle is the fate of the people inside, the original year after the entry of Phoebe unfortunately become cannon fodder.
菲比是位孩子刚满八个月的新手妈妈，去年底，她做出了这34年来最重要的决定之一：从福利待遇好的会计岗位离职，做一名英语教师。
Phoebe, a novice mom with just eight months to go, made one of the most important decisions she had made in 34 years: quit her job as a well-paid accountant and become an English teacher.
她自陈此前三十多年一直浑浑噩噩，从选专业到毕业工作，不是父母安排，就是跟随形势。
She has had an unexamined life for more than 30 years, from choosing a major to graduating, arranging for her parents or following the situation.
毕业后在老师的介绍下顺利入职一家化工企业做财务，一做就是十年。
After graduation in the teacher's introduction to a successful entry into a chemical enterprise to do financial, one is 10 years.
公司的福利待遇，在菲比生活的这座山东三线城市来说，已经绰绰有余， 但菲比心底总有一股证明自己的欲望。
The company's benefits are more than enough for the third-tier Shandong city where Phoebe lives, but Phoebe always has a desire to prove herself.
“我一直觉得这不是我自己选择的生活，甚至觉得这一切来得太容易。
"I've always felt that it wasn't a life of my own choosing, or even that it was too easy.
”她从小英语就好，想做一名英语教师，但始终没勇气放弃所拥有的一切。
"She had been good at English since childhood and wanted to be an English teacher, but she never had the courage to give up everything she had.
去年年底，她产后六个月，终于下定决心提了辞职。
At the end of last year, six months after giving birth, she finally decided to resign.
“（身边）所有人都不理解，都觉得我疯了，干嘛30多岁了还去折腾自己。
"Everybody around me doesn't understand, they think I'm crazy, why bother with myself when I'm over 30."
”辞职前菲比问遍了亲近的朋友，无一例外都劝她“别辞职”。
Phoebe asks her close friends all over the place before she quits, and without exception advises her not to quit.
突然少了一笔经济来源，丈夫最初也不答应，菲比感到委屈，“凭什么我父母住这边给我带孩子，我还不能做一份自己喜欢的工作，要去挣比你多的钱还房贷？”丈夫心中有愧，没再多说。
Phoebe feels aggrieved by the sudden loss of a financial source and her husband's initial disapproval. "Why do my parents live here to bring me kids, and I can't do what I love to do and earn more money to pay your mortgage?
一心指望儿女安稳的父母也不同意，“我妈为了阻拦我还去帮我算命，说我两年以后就会升职，让我在那待着不要走。
My parents, who only hoped for the safety of their children, would not agree. "My mother told me, in order to stop me, that I would be promoted in two years.
”中间菲比想过放弃，但还是咬着牙坚持，“人就这一辈子，我可能也就这一次折腾的机会了，再过两年、三年，我都不会再有勇气了。
In the middle Phoebe thought of giving up, but still clenched her teeth. "For the rest of my life, I might as well take this chance, and in two or three years I won't have the courage.
”离职后转行也颇费一番功夫，面试了10多家教育机构才收到了眼下这家青少年英语的offer，虽然薪资是原来工作的一半，但她每天坚持打卡各种学习英语的软件，对新生活心怀希望。
It took me a lot of time to change careers, and I interviewed more than a dozen educational institutions to get an offer from the teen-agers who are making half their salaries, but every day she sticks to various software programs to learn English and hopes for a new life.
直到HR的辞退电话打来前，她都还在家里备考教师资格证。
She was at home preparing for her teacher's certificate until HR's dismissal call.
“对方说按疫情发展情况，估计三四个月内培训机构是不会有生源了。
"The other side said that based on the development of the epidemic, it is estimated that within three to four months there will be no new sources of training.
”接到电话后的菲比，直接瘫在了书房的床上，不知如何告诉家里人，“现在心里真的很丧，人也很废，对自己充满了质疑，甚至每天晚上做梦都是回去上班了。
Phoebe was paralyzed in her study bed and didn't know how to tell her family. "I'm really depressed, I'm so dispirited, I doubt myself, I even go back to work every night.
”当菲比的自我证明之路因疫情而受挫时，护士于然却找回了工作的价值感。
When Phoebe's path to self-identification was thwarted by the epidemic, the nurse recovered the value of her job.
疫情爆发的第三天，她在个人微博上写道“上班以来一直在想，当初是为什么那么坚决地想要学医。
On the third day of the outbreak, she wrote on her personal microblog, "I've been thinking about why I was so determined to study medicine.
被质疑过、被骂过、被威胁过、被推搡过，学医的初心好像越来越模糊。
Once questioned, scolded, threatened, shoved around, the beginnings of medicine seem increasingly blurred.
想过放弃，想过转行，直到这次疫情爆发，突然想明白了：如果可以，我愿意。
Thought of giving up, thinking of changing careers, until the outbreak of this outbreak, suddenly understand: if I can, I would.
”她出身于一个医药世家，父亲在四川一座小城开私人诊所，母亲是当地卫生系统的职工。
Born into a family of doctors, her father runs a private clinic in a small city in Sichuan and her mother works for the local health system.
小学二年级写作文“长大想做什么？”，她就写“我要做一名医生”。
"What do you want to be when you grow up?" she wrote "I want to be a doctor."
“没什么特别的原因，学医就是我的一个执念，我又是比较固执的人，就这么坚持了下来。
"Nothing in particular, medicine is one of my perseverance, I am more stubborn people, so adhere to it.
”于然说。
'he said.
大学填报志愿时，因为她读的是文科，不能学临床，就报了护理。
When the university filled in the volunteer, because she was a liberal arts, can not learn clinical, reported for nursing.
实习过后，她顺利进入邻市一家三甲医院，开始规培轮转。
After the internship, she entered a neighboring city of a triple A hospital, began training rotation.
从心胸外科转至急诊科再到儿科，“开不完的会，做不完的杂事，还有紧张的医患关系……我好像找不到自己治病救人的初心了。
From cardio-thoracic surgery to emergency and paediatrics, "endless meetings, endless chores, and strained doctor-patient relationships... I can't seem to find my first heart.
”冲击最大的一次是在急诊科值夜班，病人一个接一个地来，医生们忙着抢救濒死的老大爷，就顾不过来十七八岁的大男孩。
"The biggest shock was in the emergency department, where one patient after another arrived, and doctors were too busy trying to save the dying man to care for a boy of seventeen or eighteen.
一开始医生还耐心解释，男孩妈妈在一旁急得大吼，本就手忙脚乱的医生也火了：“你没看到那边心跳都停了吗？就不能等一等？”“每个人的生与死好像都只关自己，一个病人没能抢救成功，我们会很难过，但还有下一个病人，（在急诊科）久了就对生死麻木了。
At first the doctor patiently explained that the boy's mother was shouting with impatience, and the doctor, who was already in a hurry, said, "Can't you see the heart beating? Can't wait?" "Everybody's life and death seem to be all about themselves.
”于然说。
'he said.
她第一年就考虑过换工作，去成都做临床实验协调员，但薪水微薄，难以在大城市立足，母亲劝她等规培结束后再做打算，一晃就是两年。
In her first year, she considered changing her job to become a clinical laboratory coordinator in Chengdu, but her salary was too small to stay in a big city.
很快，武汉肺炎爆发，“12月份武汉肺炎的新闻出来后，我们还觉得挺平常，后面说是SARS，紧张了一会，又有消息说不是SARS。
Soon after the outbreak of pneumonia in Wuhan, "the news of Wuhan pneumonia in December came out, we still feel quite ordinary, after saying that SARS, nervous for a while, and news that it is not SARS.
”确定有人传人的迹象后，于然所在的医院开始征集志愿医疗队上前线支援。
After confirming signs of human transmission, the hospital began recruiting volunteer medical teams to the front lines.
“我们科室几乎所有人都报名了，十四个护士，还有今年夏天就要退休的医生，除了一个年龄特别大的老师，而且她还是因为老公和女儿都去了一线。
"Almost everyone in my department has signed up, 14 nurses, and doctors who are retiring this summer, except for one particularly old teacher, and because my husband and daughter are on the frontline.
”于然感到振奋，新闻铺天盖地都在报道医护人员的事迹，点进评论里，也都是赞美，“大部分人还是能理解我们的辛苦的”。
Encouraged by this, the news is filled with stories of health-care workers and, in the comments, praise, "Most people still understand our travails."
除夕夜看到军医上前线的消息时，她哭了，“医护人员是最清楚这个病传染性有多高的，但还是义无反顾地报名上前线，这就是一种使命感。
When she saw the news on the front lines on New Year's Eve, she cried. "It was a sense of mission that health-care workers knew best how contagious the disease was, but signed up for the front line without turning back.
”她看到已经离职的护士们都在懊悔该晚点辞职，不然就可以上一线抗争，于然很庆幸自己还留在这个岗位上。
"She was glad she was still in her position when she saw her former nurses regretting that they had to resign later or face a struggle.
由于缺乏ICU和呼吸科的经验，两次报名她都没能入选支援队，于然有点失落，但很快就用一句话来抚慰自己，“‘你们赴前线，我们守家园’，无论是一线还是后方，做的事情都有同样的价值，就是治病救人。
The lack of experience in ICU and respiration meant that she was unable to join the support team on either occasion, and she was a bit frustrated, but quickly consoled herself with a sentence saying, 'You go to the front, we keep the house,' and everything you do, whether on the front or back, has the same value: cure and save.
”▲截至2月20日，国家、部队和各省市已累计派出255支共32572名医护人员支援武汉。
"As of February 20, the state, the armed forces and provinces and municipalities have sent a total of 255 medical personnel to support Wuhan.
图/武汉大学中南医院新浪微博等待疫情好转找回初心之后，于然觉得自己对工作更尽责了，做起杂事来也有了意义感，“杂事也是为了救人服务”。
Figure / Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital Sina Weibo waiting for the epidemic situation to recover the initial heart, then feel more responsible for their work, to do miscellaneous things also have a sense of significance, "miscellaneous things are also to save people to serve.
疫情之下，大家自觉居家隔离，她所在的儿科病人大幅减少。
Under the epidemic, people felt isolated at home, and her paediatric patients were drastically reduced.
“昨天下夜是19个病人，往常这个时候人数在80-100左右。
"Last night there were 19 patients and at this time of the week it was about 80-100," he said.
”她发现自己对病人家属更耐心了，会详细给他们解释用药事项和健康知识，而往常她宁愿把时间花在写记录测体温和配药上。
She found herself more patient with her patients' families, explaining medication and health in detail, when she used to spend time writing notes and taking temperature and prescriptions.
“当你学会为他们考虑后，其实家属们也没那么难相处。
"When you learn to think about them, the family isn't that hard to deal with.
”于然说她仍然打算考研，但更多是为了提升自己，而不是逃离这里，“我确定护士是我想做的事情了。
"So she said she still wanted to take the postgraduate exam, but more to improve herself than to run away from here.
”被辞退的菲比也确定英语教师仍是她的理想工作，但事情本该有更好的解决办法。
Phoebe also made sure the English teacher was still her dream job, but there could have been a better solution.
“我当初应该听家人朋友的劝，拿完年终奖再走的。
"I should have listened to my family and friends and taken the year-end bonus before I left.
如果是那样的话，现在我就不至于失业在家了。
In that case, I wouldn't be out of work now.
”菲比说自己年前辞职是为了预留时间给公司招新人，但没想到，前一天还在不停挽留她的领导，第二天一早就让她立马走人。
Phoebe says she quit her job a year ago to set aside time for the company to hire new people, only to find out the day before she was asked to leave early the next morning.
“真的非常后悔，前几天还梦到以前公司找我上班。
"I really regret that I had a dream about my company looking for work the other day.
”菲比说，有一周左右的时间，她都无法静下心来备考教师资格证。
For a week or so, Pheebs says, she couldn't settle for a teacher's certificate.
每天在各个社交平台刷消息：微博“肺炎超话”，知乎“疫情后如何找工作”，还有各个微信群里的信息。
Brush messages daily on various social platforms: Weibo "Pneumonia Sutra," "How to find a job after the epidemic," as well as messages from various micro-groups.
“就是尽可能避免主动思考，被动接受消息。
"To avoid thinking as much as possible and to receive messages passively.
”为了安抚内心的焦虑，接到辞退电话后她马上联系了之前了解过的培训机构，这次，她把要求降到了“少幼儿英语”，有三家表示不缺生源，教育局恢复授课的通知下来后，会通知她面试。
"To assuage her anxiety, she contacted the training institute she had known immediately after receiving her layoff call. This time, she lowered the request to" Little Kids English, "and three said they had no shortage of students.
她还是不放心，又去招聘网站上浏览了会计岗位的信息，做二手准备。
She still is not at ease, went to recruit website to browse the information of accountant position again, do second-hand preparation.
除此之外，她还打算三月底参加政府公示的事业单位考试，目标是四月初拿到一个满意的offer。
In addition, she plans to take a government-announced public-sector exam by the end of March, with the goal of getting a satisfactory offer by early April.
比菲比小十几岁的陈言没这么乐观。
It's not as upbeat as Phoebe's teenage statement.
“我觉得我可能撑不到三月。
"I don't think I'll make it through March.
”每天周旋在学生家长和上司之间让她抓狂，不能出门，她坚持下午外送星巴克或奶茶来缓解头痛。
"She drove her nuts out of the house between her parents and supervisors every day and insisted on taking Starbucks or milk tea out in the afternoon to ease her headaches.
原以为疫情后公司运转正常，但前几天主管通知，只有线上授课业绩突出的人才能顺利返岗，发放基本工资，这意味着其他人可能连饭碗都不保。
The company was supposed to be functioning normally after the outbreak, but in the last few days supervisors told me that only those with outstanding online delivery would be able to return to work and pay basic salaries, which meant that others might not even be able to secure their jobs.
逃离的念头仍时不时在脑海中浮现，但为了安抚家人，她只能委曲求全，“一直在劝自己，过了今天就好了，一天天地熬下去，熬到疫情过去再说。
The idea of escape still recurred to her mind from time to time, but to soothe her family, she had to bend the rules, "always trying to persuade herself that today would be better, and day after day, until the epidemic was over.
”▲图/《凪的新生活》截图（应受访者要求，文中涉及人物皆为化名）每人互动疫情下，你的职场计划变了吗？文章为每日人物原创侵权必究。
[/ b] [/ b] [/ b] [/ b] [/ b] [/ b] [/ b] [/ color] [/ color] [/ color] [/ color] [/ color] [/ color] [color = Red] [/ color] [/ color] [color = Red]
每人作者。
Author per person.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
已喜欢，对作者说句悄悄话。
Like it, whisper to the author.
发送给作者。
Send to author.
最多40字，当前共字。
Up to 40 words, currently in common.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
今年，你还有勇气辞职吗？。
Do you still have the courage to resign this year?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "每日人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; everyday & quot;.
var msg_title = "今年，你还有勇气辞职吗？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Did you have the courage to resign this year?;
var msg_desc = "对大多数人来说，纠结是常态。
var msg _ desc = & quot; for most people, entanglement is the norm.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="每日人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; everyday & quot;.
