养蜂人刘德成，无法再追花。
Beekeepers Liu Desheng, can no longer chase flowers.
每人作者。
Author per person.
每日人物                      。
Daily characters.
每日人物。
Daily characters.
轻商业，懂生活。
Light business, understand life.
。
.
2月3号，情势已经急转直下。
By February 3, the situation had turned sour.
刘德成发了一个朋友圈，说自己的蜜蜂中毒了。
Liu Decheng has a circle of friends who say his bees have been poisoned.
在四川攀枝花繁蜂的徐仁柱看到后跟他聊了起来。
Xu Renzhu, a bee hiker in Sichuan province, chatted with him when he saw it.
那个晚上，刘德成告诉徐仁柱，从大年初三到现在，光是死去的蜜蜂，他就装了六七桶，都倒掉了，那是能装三四十斤水的大桶。
That night, Liu Decheng told Xu Yan-zhu that from the third day of the New Year to the present, just the dead bees, he filled six or seven barrels, all poured out, it is able to hold thirty-four jin of water.
“要疯了。
"" It's going crazy.
”他向徐仁柱描述那些蜂子的惨状：“死得密密麻麻，都拖不出来。
He described the horrors of the bees to Xu Renzhu: "Death is too close to drag.
”文 |翟锦采访 |翟锦 王梓帆编辑 | 金匝运营 |山山这是养蜂人刘德成第一年带着蜜蜂在云南过冬。
At the service of Rizi, this is the first year that beekeeper Liu Decheng spent the winter in Yunnan with a bee.
以前他常在老家四川西昌繁蜂，这里油菜花茂盛。
He used to live in his hometown of Xichang, Sichuan Province, where rapeseed flourishes.
但后来，很多人不种油菜，改栽葡萄，花少。
But later, a lot of people do not plant rape, change grape, spend less.
他听蜂友说云南不错，就去了。
He heard from his hive that Yunnan was good, so he went.
养蜂人追着各地的花期跑，叫转场。
Beekeepers chase the flowering periods around the world, called the change.
一旦来年春暖花开，带着176箱蜜蜂，刘德成将会离开云南易门，转场到第一站四川绵阳。
Once the coming spring flowers, with 176 boxes of bees, Liu Decheng will leave Yi Men, Yunnan Province, to the first stop Mianyang Sichuan.
二三月份，那里有大片的油菜花，比腰还高，黄灿灿，蜜蜂一涌进去，就看不到影子。
In February and March, there is a large rape, than waist high, yellow, bees rush in, can not see the shadow.
四月份，一路西行，从四川来到甘肃天水，追逐油菜花、洋槐花和苜蓿花。
April, all the way westward from Sichuan to Tianshui, Gansu Province, chasing rape, acacia and alfalfa flowers.
洋槐花开的满树，攒在枝头，洋槐花蜜也是养蜂人卖得最好的蜂蜜。
Robinia pseudoacacia blossoms full of trees, in the branches, locust nectar is also the beekeeper selling the best honey.
接着，会历经定西、白银、武威。
Then, will go through Dingxi, silver, Wuwei.
赶最后一个花期时，他会回到天水，在地图上绕完一个椭圆形，十一月左右，就再启程去云南，繁育蜜蜂，等待来年的花期。
In time for the last flowering period, he would return to Tianshui, complete an ellipse on the map, and set out for Yunnan around November, breeding bees and waiting for the next year's flowering season.
只是今年，这场迁徙被疫情切断。
Only this year, the migration was cut off by the epidemic.
因为新冠肺炎，在云南易门的他遇到村子封路，不能带着蜜蜂及时转场，饲料糖也运不进来，蜜蜂只能采食已经被打上农药的油菜花，一层一层的工蜂死去。
Because of the new crown pneumonia, he encountered the village in Yi Men, Yunnan Province, can not bring bees to the scene in time, feed sugar can not be brought in, bees can only eat has been pesticide-coated rape, layer after layer of worker bees died.
这期间，蜂螨又爆发了。
In the meantime, the bee mite erupted again.
给蜜蜂治螨时，刘德成用药狠了，不止是工蜂，小蜜蜂也长不出来了，蜂场已经完全崩溃，损失十几万。
When the bees to treat mites, Liu Decheng drug cruel, not only worker bees, bees can not grow out, the hive has completely collapsed, the loss of tens of thousands of.
2月13日，45岁的刘德成在养蜂的帐篷里用一条麻绳结束生命。
On February 13, 45-year-old Liu Decheng ended his life in a hemp rope in a beekeeping tent.
他原本的176箱蜜蜂，最后只合并成36个残弱的蜂群。
His original 176 boxes of bees ended up merging into only 36 crippled colonies.
▲刘德成的养蜂证图/网络   1  对刘德成来说，在云南易门，他原本要独自度过一个没有蜂蜜产出的时节。
Liu Decheng's bee-keeping card chart / network 1 for Liu Desheng, in Yi Men, Yunnan, he would have to spend a lonely season without honey production.
前几年，刘德成的妻子还会跟着他一起去追花，后来，他的两个孩子大了，一个读高中，一个读初中，得有人照顾，妻子在老家的超市找了一份临工，就刘德成一个人带着蜜蜂四处迁徙。
A few years ago, Liu Decheng's wife will follow him to chase flowers, later, his two children, a high school, a junior high school, had to be looked after, his wife found a job in the home supermarket, Liu DeCheng a person with bees to migrate.
秋冬是蜂王产卵、大量培育越冬蜂的关键时期，年龄大、身体差的蜂王被淘汰，引入新的优质蜂王，培育出壮蜂。
Autumn and winter is a critical period for queen bee spawning and growing a large number of overwintering bees.
即便是到了云南，比四川西昌的花要繁盛一些，食物还是不够，一定要有充足的饲料糖，喂给蜜源并不多的蜂群，以便它们安全越冬。
Even in Yunnan, the flowers are more plentiful than those in Xichang, Sichuan. Food is not enough. Sufficient feed sugar must be fed to honeybees, which have few sources, so that they can pass the winter safely.
越冬期，养蜂人的一天多是如此度过：早上天蒙蒙亮起床，把饭煮上，一箱箱检查蜜蜂。
Over the winter, beekeepers spend more of their day getting up in the morning, boiling the rice and checking the bees in boxes.
秋冬是蜂螨高发期，得时刻注意除螨。
Autumn and winter is a high incidence of bee mite, must always pay attention to mite removal.
等到蜜蜂飞出去，才能坐下吃饭。
Wait until the bees fly out before they can sit down to eat.
傍晚六七点，太阳落山，气温下降，蜜蜂自己飞回来，就要给它们喂糖水。
At six or seven in the evening, when the sun sets and the temperature drops, the bees fly back to feed them sugar and water.
虽然没有蜂蜜产出，但对刘德成来说，这几个月仍然是充满希望的——蜂群正在积蓄力量，孕育新一年采蜜的主力。
Although there is no honey production, these months have been promising for Liu Decheng, a swarm of bees that is building up strength to produce the main source of honey for the new year.
今年1月底，甘肃天水的李志荣还给刘德成打过一个电话，他称呼刘德成“师父”。
At the end of January, Li Zhirong of Tianshui, Gansu Province, called Liu Desheng "Master."
“等你转场到了绵阳，我就开车上来看你，咱们两个，我的车，你的蜂，我的蜂，一起拉走，我跟你好好地学几年，今年我们大干一场。
"When you get to Mianyang, I'll drive up to see you, the two of us, my car, your bee, my bee, and I'll study hard with you for a few years, and we did a great job this year.
”刘德成在那头还是高兴的样子，他告诉李志荣，2月20号就要带着蜜蜂到四川绵阳去，到时候给他打电话。
"Liu, still happy at the other end, told Li Zhirong that he would take the bees to Mianyang, Sichuan Province, on February 20th and call him when the time came.
但2月3号，情势已经急转直下。
By February 3, however, the situation had turned sour.
刘德成发了一个朋友圈，说自己的蜜蜂中毒了。
Liu Decheng has a circle of friends who say his bees have been poisoned.
在四川攀枝花繁蜂的徐仁柱看到后跟他聊了起来。
Xu Renzhu, a bee hiker in Sichuan province, chatted with him when he saw it.
那个晚上，刘德成告诉徐仁柱，从大年初三到现在，光是死去的蜜蜂，他就装了六七桶，都倒掉了，那是能装三四十斤水的大桶。
That night, Liu Decheng told Xu Yan-zhu that from the third day of the New Year to the present, just the dead bees, he filled six or seven barrels, all poured out, it is able to hold thirty-four jin of water.
▲2月初，刘德成拍视频给朋友看蜂箱和死掉的蜜蜂。
In early February, Liu Decheng took a video showing friends beehives and dead bees.
图/受访者供图徐仁柱感同身受。
Photo / Interview with Tu Yan-chu.
因为肺炎疫情，春节假期结束后，攀枝花的农民们没能像往常一样出去打工，在田地打农药打的很勤快，蜜蜂中毒比往年都厉害，以前打开蜂箱厚厚的都是蜜蜂，现在几乎可以见底——工蜂都死了，中毒后，蜂王也几乎都不兴奋，繁育不了。
As a result of the pneumonia epidemic, Panzhihua farmers did not go out to work as usual after the Spring Festival holiday. They worked hard in the fields to fight pesticides. Bees were more poisoned than usual.
攀枝花待不下去，徐仁柱就想办法往新都去赶花期。
Panzhihua can not stay, Xu Yan-zhu would like to try to catch the flowering period to Xindu.
他拿着健康通行证，去往年待过的地方落脚，跟村长说好了自己隔离14天后再出门。
He took his health pass and settled down where he had spent the previous year. He told the village chief that he would stay in quarantine for 14 days before going out.
但第二天，以前熟悉的村民就找到他的帐篷里去，赶他走，不走就砸蜂箱。
But the next day, the familiar villagers found him in his tent and drove him away, smashing the hive before he left.
“我说我已经走投无路，他们也不放过。
"I said I was desperate, and they didn't let me go.
我没办法，又到处求朋友收留。
I can't help it. I'm begging my friends for shelter again.
”最后还是一个蜂农朋友，把他的蜜蜂放在自己的蜂场养着。
"Finally, he was a bee-farmer who kept his bees in his hive.
刘德成所在的易门县只比这些更严重。
Liudecheng's Yi Men county is only more serious than these.
村子封路，路上都设了卡，他找不到车，饲料糖进不来，他也出不去，即便是真能出去了，四川那边也不接收。
The village sealed the road, the road is set up cards, he can not find cars, feed sugar can not enter, he can not get out, even if really can go out, Sichuan side will not accept.
“但是你的蜂子在长的嘛。
'But your bee grows.
”徐仁柱安慰刘德成，效果甚微。
Xu Renzhu consoled Liu Decheng, with little effect.
刘德成告诉他，“要疯了。
Liu Decheng told him, "It's going crazy.
”他向徐仁柱描述那些蜂子的惨状：“死得密密麻麻，都拖不出来。
He described the horrors of the bees to Xu Renzhu: "Death is too close to drag.
”聊天戛然而止，除了说一下各自的损失，他们没什么办法，也无法彼此安慰。
"Chatting abruptly, they could do nothing but talk of their respective losses, and could not console each other.
就在刘德成走后的第三天，2月15日，相关部门印发《关于解决当前实际困难加快养殖业复工复产的紧急通知》。
Just three days after Liu's departure, on February 15, the relevant departments issued the Emergency Notice on Resolving Current Practical Difficulties in Accelerating the Resumption of Livestock Work.
其中把蜜蜂运输包括进去了。
Which includes the transportation of bees.
有了这份文件，转场放蜂的出口才逐渐开始打开。
With this document, the exit of the transvestite wasp began to open gradually.
2  养蜂人的生活充满不确定。
The life of a beekeeper is full of uncertainty.
如果一年风调雨顺，蜜蜂在蜜源地吃得满足，产蜜也多；如果雨水天多，或是遇上“倒春寒”这样的极端天气，蜜源植物就会减少流蜜量，也会影响蜜蜂外出行动。
Bees produce more honey if they eat in the honey-producing areas after a good year of good weather. If there is plenty of rain or extreme weather such as "hot spring," the honey plant will reduce the amount of honey flowing, and will also affect the bees' mobility.
以为这儿的花期有两个月，可能20天就开完了，天太热，花早早开了就落，采不上蜜，那又得赶紧转移到下一个地方。
It was so hot that the flowers came early and fell without honey. Then they had to be quickly moved to the next place.
每一年都像开一场“赌局”，赌能不能挣上钱。
Each year is like a "gambling game," gambling can not earn money.
这不是刘德成第一次输掉“赌局”。
This is not the first time Liu Decheng lost "gambling."
2018年4月，甘肃遭遇低温冻害，刘德成当时和其他养蜂人一道在这里赶花期，气温突降，花粉受损，蜜蜂无蜜可采。
In April 2018, when Gansu suffered frostbite, Liu Decheng joined other beekeepers to catch the flowering season. The temperature dropped abruptly, pollen was damaged and bees had no honey to harvest.
采不上蜜，蜜蜂只能吃白糖，一袋100斤的白糖当时涨到快400块，一花期得喂10多袋，再后来，那大半年，走西北花线，几乎沿路都要一直喂白糖，入不敷出，赔了好几万。
No honey, bees can only eat white sugar, a bag of 100 jin of sugar then rose to nearly 400, a growing period had to feed more than 10 bags, and then later, the majority of that year, took the northwest flower line, almost all the way to feed sugar, income beyond the income of tens of thousands of dollars.
除了靠天吃饭，还得能掌握这门手艺。
Besides eating by the weather, one has to master the trade.
很多养蜂人都得跟着师父跑上四五年，才能独自上路。
Many beekeepers had to follow the master for four or five years before they could travel alone.
得摸清蜜蜂的习性，得会给蜜蜂治病。
To find out the habits of bees, they have to cure bees.
蜜蜂最常见也最危险的疾病就是蜂螨。
The most common and dangerous disease for bees is the bee mite.
螨病严重的蜂群，新蜂不能健康出生，成年蜂大批死亡，蜂群迅速削弱。
Mites with severe acariasis, new bees cannot be born healthy, adult bees die in large numbers, and colonies rapidly erode.
蜜蜂长了螨虫是看不出来的。
Bees can't tell if they have mites.
对养蜂人刘德成来说，在云南易门时，每天最重要的事情之一就是检查蜂螨，把蜂箱的蜂巢脾（蜂巢脾是蜜蜂用蜂蜡修造的数千个巢房组成的）一个个提出来，看攀爬在上面的蜜蜂的翅膀，如果有蜜蜂的翅膀扭曲，被咬出一个洞，就是长了螨虫。
For beekeeper Liu Desheng, one of the most important things of the day at Yi Men in Yunnan was to check wasp mites and present hive spleen (a hive of thousands of hives built by bees using beeswax) one by one to see the wings of bees climbing on them.
除螨，只能打药。
You can only take medicine for mites.
螨虫药其实也是一种农药，打少了，蜂螨去不掉，打多了，就会把自己的蜂子毒死。
Acarite medicine is also a pesticide, hit less, bee mite can not get rid of, hit more, will own bee poisoned.
因为每年蜂螨的情况不一样，只能自己估计药量，再熟练的蜂农有时候都会出错。
Because bee mites do not have the same situation each year, they can only estimate the amount of their own medicine, even skilled humminggrowers sometimes make mistakes.
徐仁柱去年换了一种新的螨虫药，不晓得药性，打了一次没效果，还好转场后又补了一次，不然蜂子也会出大问题。
Xu Renzhu last year changed a new mite drug, do not know the drug, hit a no effect, but also improved the field after a repair, otherwise the bee will also be a big problem.
这一次，出错的是刘德成。
This time, it was Liu Desheng who made the mistake.
在遭遇无法转场，蜜蜂中毒后，他的蜂群又因为治螨药打重了，成群地死，之前打开蜂箱还能看到活跃的蜜蜂，后来几乎看不到了。
After being unable to switch fields and being poisoned by bees, his swarm died of acaricides, and before opening the hive he could see active bees, which were almost invisible.
过去一年里，生活的打击已经来得太频繁。
Life has been battered too often in the past year.
去年追花的时候，刘德成请了杨崇福帮忙。
Last year when the pursuit of flowers, Andy Lau asked Yang Chongfu to help.
二月底，他们从四川西昌出发，去了绵阳追油菜花。
At the end of February, they set out from Xichang, Sichuan Province, and went to Mianyang to pursue rapeseed.
杨崇福主要帮刘德成转场、做饭和照顾蜜蜂，一个月两千元，他觉得这工资太低了，别人都开三四千，五千的也有，他也问刘德成加过工资，刘德成说，“加不起来”。
Yang Chongfu mainly helps Liu Decheng to turn around, cook and take care of bees. He thinks the salary is too low.
▲油菜花盛开的时节，养蜂人在田间忙碌。
Rapeseed season, beekeepers in the field busy.
图/视觉中国杨崇福听了他的话，没再追问，他不想让中间介绍人为难，钱少些就少些。
Photo / Visual China Yang Chongfu listened to his words, no further inquiry, he did not want to let the intermediary difficult, less money.
至于原因，他也能模糊猜到一些——他听说过刘德成家里人患病的消息。
As for the cause, he could dimly guess that he had heard of the illness of Liu's family.
去年七八月份的时候，刘德成的弟弟因为癌症去世，他把蜂场交给杨崇福看管，回去给弟弟办后事，半个多月后才回来。
Last July and August, Liu's younger brother died of cancer. He left the beehive in Yang Chongfu's care and returned to his younger brother.
刘德成到云南繁蜂后，还问过杨崇福要不要来帮忙。
Liu Desheng to Yunnan after the bees, also asked whether Yang Chongfu would like to help.
也是这次，刘德成才提起说，来年五月，等采了洋槐花之后，可能就把蜂子都卖了，回去照顾父亲——他父亲患了肾病，已经在做透析。
The next May, after picking locust flowers, he would probably sell the bees back to take care of his father, who had kidney disease and was already undergoing dialysis.
3  养蜂人刘德成，留下的痕迹并不多，外人只有在几个短视频里，才得以窥见他生活里的一些面貌。
Liu Decheng, a beekeeper, left only a few traces, only in a few short video, to get a glimpse of his life.
在一个短视频平台上，刘德成超过半数的视频都是他在唱歌，戴着耳机，正对着屏幕，偶尔会边唱边转圈，可以看到他背后的帐篷、蜂箱，和空旷无物的四周。
On a short video platform, more than half of Liu Decheng's videos are of him singing, wearing headphones, facing the screen, occasionally singing and circling, and seeing the tents, beehives, and empty spaces behind him.
在《朋友别哭》的前奏响起来时，刘德成不笑，嘴角没有弧度，踩着歌的节奏说：“养蜂人的生活就是这样，一个帐篷，100多箱蜜蜂，四处流浪。
"This is how life is for a beekeeper, a tent, more than 100 boxes of bees," Liu Decheng said, without a smile or curvature or curvature in the corners of his mouth.
”那是1月13号，他最后上传的一个视频。
It was January 13, the last video he uploaded.
▲刘德成在短视频平台上传的最后一个视频，翻唱《朋友别哭》。
Liu Desheng in the short video platform upload the last video, turn over to sing "Friends don't cry."
图/网络路边，山里，村子外头，草原上，都是他的落脚点。
Picture / network roadside, mountain, outside the village, grassland, are his foothold.
这些年有了太阳能电板后，刘德成的帐篷晚上才有了灯，还可以给手机充电，也会带个小电视。
After years of solar panels, Mr. Liu's tent had lights at night, recharged his cell phone and brought a small TV.
他喜欢唱歌，徐仁柱也喜欢。
He likes singing, so does Xu Renzhu.
春节的时候，很多养蜂人不在家过年，也没有电视看，他们就在蜂友群里，自己搞联欢晚会，一个接一个地唱，唱《青藏高原》、《黄土高坡》、《牡丹之歌》，唱得好，有人会发红包。
During the Spring Festival, many beekeepers do not stay at home to celebrate the New Year or watch TV. They do their own parties, sing one song after another, sing "Qinghai-Tibet Plateau," "Loess Plateau," "Song of Peony," singing well, and some people will give red envelopes.
日子是孤独又辛苦的。
The days are lonely and hard.
春夏里，得每天检查蜂箱，除了看有没有蜂螨，还要把多的琥珀色蜂蜜摇出来；秋冬时，在外头也难找水，找到了，得一趟趟挑水，给蜜蜂喂糖水，蜜蜂吃一顿就得耗一桶水，水用得快。
In spring and summer, beehives have to be checked every day to see if there is a bee mite, and more amber honey has to be shaken out. In autumn and winter, when water is hard to find outside, they have to go to fetch water, give sugar to bees, eat a bucket of water, water quickly.
碰上阴雨天，蜜蜂出不去，养蜂人就只能在帐篷里发愁，什么也做不了。
On rainy days, bees can not get out, beekeepers can only worry in tents, nothing can be done.
晚上，太阳能供电的灯泡“呜呜”作响，光线只能让人勉强看到帐篷里的东西，帐篷外头已经凉了，四周也只有蜜蜂的声音。
At night, solar-powered bulbs whine, the light barely makes people see what's in the tent, the outside of the tent is cold and the sound of bees is all around.
有一年，徐仁柱就遇上大风雨，帐篷被刮跑了，不敢出去找，只用湿被子蒙住头，挨到天亮。
One year, Xu Yan-zhu was caught in the storm. The tent was blown away. He dared not go out to look for it.
蜜蜂喜欢安静，附近除了要有大片花田，还要有清洁的水源。
Bees like quiet, in addition to large areas of nearby flowers, but also a clean water source.
要避免离人群太近，免得蜜蜂蛰人引起矛盾。
Avoid being too close to people so that bees do not cause problems.
也不能和其它蜂场隔着太近，蜜蜂打起架来几分钟就能死一大片。
Nor can they be too close to other hives, which can kill a great deal in a few minutes of fighting.
所以，刘德成这样的养蜂人总住在偏僻的地方，很少能与人交流，只能唱歌，“再不张嘴，你都不会说话了。
Therefore, Liu Decheng such beekeepers always live in remote places, rarely able to communicate with people, can only sing, "no more mouth, you can not speak.
”徐仁柱解释说。
Xu Renzhu explained.
刘德成养的是意大利蜜蜂，是后来引进中国的一种西蜂。
Liu De grew up as an Italian bee and was later introduced to China as a wasp.
意蜂个头大，成群结队，喜欢成片的花田，不喜欢零散的花。
Italian bees are large, hordes of people, like the flowers into pieces of the field, do not like scattered flowers.
如果挨着当地养中蜂（中华蜜蜂）的蜂场放，会惹麻烦，养中蜂的蜂农会找上门赶你走，觉得你家意蜂抢了我家中蜂的花粉。
If the beehive next to the native wasp (Chunghwa bee) gets in trouble, the wasp farmers who keep the wasps will come to you and chase you away, feeling that your bees have stolen pollen from my bees.
他性子柔和，不愿与人起争执。
He is soft-tempered and does not want to argue with others.
有次，他的意蜂咬死了人家的一群中峰，对方让他赔钱，他很快答应，赔了三千。
Once, his Italian bee bit a group of people to death, the other party let him lose money, he quickly agreed, lost three thousand.
后来说起这件事，李志荣觉得赔多了，想帮他讨些回来，刘德成把他拦住了：“算了，不多，现在到人家村子这边放蜂，一个小事能惹个大事，咱们还要谋以后的生路。
When Li Zhirong talked about it later, he felt that he was making too much money and wanted to help him get some back. Liu Dexin stopped him: "Forget it, not much.
”刘德成赔钱后的第三天，对方叫了几个当地养中蜂的蜂农找上门，逼着他搬走。
On the third day after Liu lost money, beekeepers from several local wasps were called in to force him to move.
李志荣要把他的蜜蜂拉到自己家去，但刘德成没答应，一直在旁边说：“可以，我可以搬走。
Li Zhirong wanted to pull his bees to his home, but Liu Decheng refused and kept saying, "Yes, I can move.
”他让对方给他点时间，为蜜蜂找个新的去处。
"He asked the other side to give him time to find a new place for the bees.
他是个处处小心、愿意留下善意的人。
He was a careful man who was willing to leave good intentions.
村里的人来买蜂蜜，买一斤他送人家半斤。
The villagers came to buy honey and paid half a catty for it.
他跟李志荣说：“靠钱还是要靠大的，不能靠小的，咱们这么多的蜂，哪里扔不下半斤蜜？养蜂，就是吃的扔的，来的走的，你要看远一点。
He told Li Zhirong: "Money still depends on big, can not rely on small, we so many bees, where can not throw not half a catty honey? Bees, is to throw food, come to walk, you must look further.
”有次他的蜜蜂被邻村的人偷走三箱，他骑着车过去，跟人喝茶聊天，装作不经意看到蜂箱，说好像是他的，对方只说是自己捡的，他也没戳破，拿了两箱蜜蜂回去，另一箱留给了人家。
Once his bee was stolen by a man from a neighboring village, and he rode over and talked with people over tea, pretending that he didn't notice the beehive, that it seemed to be his, and that he had picked it up.
除去孤独和辛苦，“但养蜂也是真的自由”，这也是他们还愿意在这个行业里待着的原因。
Despite loneliness and toil, "but apiculture is really free," which is why they still want to stay in the industry.
徐仁柱说，有时候好几个地方都开花，自己就可以选一个风景好气候好自己也喜欢的地方去赶花期，“追着花期等于是追着春天，大部分时候我们都穿着春秋装在帐篷里，空气也很好，早晚都是凉凉的。
Xu Yan-zhu said that sometimes several places flowering, they can choose a good climate of their own favorite place to catch the flowering period, "chasing flowers is tantamount to chasing spring, most of the time we wear spring and autumn in tents, the air is good, and the night is cool.
”走到哪就认识新朋友，别的养蜂人或是本地朋友，会在草原上和大家一起吃饭、喝青稞酒。
Where to meet new people, other beekeepers or local friends, and eat and drink barley wine on the grasslands.
他和刘德成，就是前年在川西北的若尔盖草原追花时认识的。
He and Liu Desheng, is the year before last in the northwest of Chuan when the Jolgai grassland met.
▲养蜂人在整理蜂巢。
The beekeeper is tidying up the hive.
图/视觉中国现在，新都的花快开了，朋友的蜂已经开始采粉，徐仁柱的蜂还是只能用糖水养着，他每天都检查蜂王的情况，想从头繁殖蜂群。
Photo / Vision China Now that the flowers of the new capital are beginning to bloom, friends' bees have begun to pick powder, Xu Renzhu's bees can only be kept in sugar water, he checks the queen bee every day and wants to breed bees from scratch.
去年养蜂的钱就是借的，他还没还清。
He didn't pay back the money he borrowed for beekeeping last year.
今年一只蜂王80多块，要恢复蜂群，他得买几百只。
This year a queen bee is more than 80 dollars, to restore the colony, he has to buy several hundred.
但那天听到刘德成自杀的消息后，他一晚上没睡着，早上就联系老乡发起募捐，筹到2160元，他也捐了100块，都给了刘德成的妻子。
But that day after hearing the news of Liu Decheng's suicide, he did not sleep all night, contact the villagers to launch a fund-raising, raised 2160 yuan, he also donated 100, all to Liu Decheng's wife.
后来，徐仁柱想给自己募一点钱，希望能够用这钱买一些蜜蜂。
Later, Xu Renzhu wanted to raise some money for himself, hoping to use the money to buy some bees.
蜂友联盟的群主说，大家已经捐给了刘德成，还在弄湖北的捐款，群里就这些蜂农，只能尽力给他捐助了三千多元。
Friends of the group said that they have donated to Liu Decheng, still making donations to Hubei, the group of these farmers, can only do their best to give him more than 3,000.
每人互动你所在的行业有受到疫情影响吗？文章为每日人物原创侵权必究。
Do you think your industry is affected by the epidemic? This article is an original daily human tort.
每人作者。
Author per person.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
已喜欢，对作者说句悄悄话。
Like it, whisper to the author.
发送给作者。
Send to author.
最多40字，当前共字。
Up to 40 words, currently in common.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
养蜂人刘德成，无法再追花。
Beekeepers Liu Desheng, can no longer chase flowers.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "每日人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; everyday & quot;.
var msg_title = "养蜂人刘德成，无法再追花";。
var msg _ title = & quot; beekeeper Liu Desheng, no longer at & quot;;
var msg_desc = "除去孤独和辛苦，“但养蜂也是真的自由”。
var msg _ desc = & quot; with all its loneliness and toil, "but beekeeping is really free."
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="每日人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; everyday & quot;.
