那些创业的年轻人，今年还能从蝌蚪变青蛙吗？。
Those young starters can change frogs from tadpoles this year?
每人作者。
Author per person.
每日人物                      。
Daily characters.
每日人物。
Daily characters.
轻商业，懂生活。
Light business, understand life.
。
.
这个春天，如何活下来，是悬在创业者头上的问题。
How to survive this spring is a question hanging over entrepreneurs.
西贝的董事长贾国龙称，西贝的2万多员工处于待业中，即使贷款发工资，公司也只够撑3个月。
His chairman, Jia Guolong, said more than 20,000 of his employees were unemployed and that the company would only last three months even if the loans were paid.
解散和辞退员工的事情已经发生，K歌之王宣布与全部200余名员工解除劳动合同，百程决定关闭公司启动清算准备的消息刚传出，优信也向员工发出了停工待岗通知书。
Dissolution and dismissal have occurred, Kongking announced that all 200 employees terminated their labor contracts, 100% decided to close the company to start the liquidation of the news, Youxin also issued employees to work suspension waiting notice.
因为疫情，突然陷入困境的创业者众多。
Because of the epidemic, the sudden plight of entrepreneurs is numerous.
2月2日，金沙江创投合伙人朱啸虎也发表朋友圈称，今年比非典还严峻，对很多创业企业是生死关。
February 2, Jinshajiang venture partner Zhu Xiaohu also published a circle of friends, said that this year than SARS more severe, for many startups is critical.
每日人物为此找到了四位与创业者联系紧密的投资人，聊一聊他们眼中这波疫情对创业者最真实的影响。
The Daily People found four investors who were very close to the founders to talk about what they saw as the real impact of the epidemic on entrepreneurs.
文 |翟锦编辑 |金匝运营 |肖睿如果创业公司等、靠、要，我们就不会出手吴世春梅花创投创始合伙人我们毕竟是投资机构，要不要出手相救，还是得看项目有没有可持续性。
At the same time, we wouldn't have sold Wushchun Plum Founding Partner if the company had waited, relied on or asked for help. We were, after all, investment institutions, and whether or not to lend a helping hand or whether the project was sustainable.
我们给他们钱，不是让他们用来去支付那些刚性成本，而是用来转型，不是纯粹为了救命而救命，而是用来发展。
We give them money not to pay for those rigid costs, but to transform, not to save lives simply to save, but to develop.
创始人积极自救很重要，不等、不靠，转型到一个新的业务，产品已经做出来了，需要一笔钱启动，那这时候我们很愿意出手；但是如果他在这里等、靠、要的话，我们就不会出手。
It's important for the founders to help themselves. It's important not to wait, not to trust, to turn to a new business, to get the product done, to start with, then we're willing to do it; but if he's here, depending on it, we won't do it.
像在这次疫情里，有些创业者表现就很优秀，像科比特无人机，能迅速抓住一些新机会，大年三十，我们打电话，我跟他说：“接下来群防群控可能是一个重点，你们的无人机应该能转变成替代人工群防群控的利器。
In an epidemic like this, some entrepreneurs do well, like Bryant UAVs, who can quickly seize new opportunities. When we call in the mid-thirties, we say to him: "Next crowd control may be a priority, and your drones should be able to be converted into an alternative to crowd control.
”大年初一，他们就调集人力在家里办公，积极地把它开发出来了，大年初十就已经上线，在十几个城市代替人工做群防群控。
On the first day of the Lunar New Year, they mobilized manpower to work from home and actively developed it.
科比特无人机原来是给电力做巡检，能在空中停留四个小时，代替人工的能力很强。
The Bryant UAV was originally designed to patrol electricity, allowing it to stay in the air for up to four hours instead of being man-made.
也是这一遭，科比特无人机，在我们很多项目里杀出重围，我们也愿意给很多支持。
It was the same time, Bryant UAV, in many of our projects, we are willing to give a lot of support.
我们投的公司也有受到疫情影响比较严重的。
Our company has also been seriously affected by the epidemic.
像一家做线下教育培训的，基本上也不能开展业务，也在转到线上作业，还需要一个阶段。
Like an offline educator, it's almost impossible to do business, and it's going to take a while to get online.
还有一家是给院线提供宣发服务的公司，今年春节档和接下来的2月、3月的影院，收入几乎可以计为0，所以影院也没钱去支付下游公司的服务费。
There is also a company that serves theaters, which earn almost nothing this Spring Festival and the February and March movies, so cinemas don't have the money to pay for the services of downstream companies.
这些公司，要么受到客户影响，要么服务本身需要面对面接触，有的房租开支比例还很高，又停业这么长时间，公司的现金储备很难支持。
These companies are either influenced by customers or face-to-face contact is required for the services themselves, and in some cases the company's cash reserves are difficult to support because of the high rate of rent payments and the long time they are out of business.
还有我们投了一家狼人杀公司，他们这段时间用户量暴涨，在梅花帮的社群里问谁有资源，他们有业务要外包，原本有家给院线做线上票务的公司，就正好对接上了。
And we put in a werewolf killing company, which has seen a huge increase in users, asking who in the club has the resources to outsource their business, and the company that used to do the ticketing for the line is on the right track.
创造一些额外收入，也是一种救命的方式。
Creating some extra income is also a way to save lives.
我们投的云菜园，在济南开了150多家社区生鲜便利店，1月底，我看他们受到影响还比较大，创始人一开始也有些焦虑，我和他打过好几次电话，大年初五那会，他问的都是怎么办的问题，他们现金流支撑不到3个月。
At the end of January, I thought they were more affected and the founders were a little anxious. I called him several times during the fifth half of the year to ask questions about what to do, and their cash flow lasted less than three months.
到2月初，他从焦虑和慌乱中恢复过来，问的都是我这样办行不行的问题。
By the beginning of February, he had recovered from his anxiety and agitation, and had asked if it would be all right with me.
他现在积极地开展多种形式的自救，比如让员工在线上卖东西，甚至一部分转微商，先活下来。
He is now actively engaged in a variety of forms of self-help, such as online sales, or even some micro-business, to survive.
创始人还扩大了原来to B的业务，给很多社区小店提供蔬菜、最后这个月净利润也还挺好，他们也被省政府列入疫情重点保障企业，银行给他们放贷，缓解了现金流的压力。
The founders also expanded to B's business, supplying vegetables to many small community stores and ended the month with a good net profit. They were also included in the provincial government's list of the most important protection companies in the epidemic, with banks lending to them, easing cash flow pressures.
所以办法总比困难多，只要创始人心理强大，我觉得就没问题。
So the solution is always more difficult, as long as the founder psychological strong, I think no problem.
▲受疫情影响，生鲜电商市场有了大幅的增长。
Affected by the epidemic, the live electricity business market has grown significantly.
图/ 网络如果疫情能够像当年的非典一样，3个月内消失掉，那我觉得大概会有20%的创业公司会受到比较严重的影响；那如果持续6个月的话，我觉得50%以上的创业公司会受到非常严重的影响；如果进入胶着，可能就是全面打击了，特别是非线上业务收入的创业公司。
Chart / Network If the epidemic could go away like SARS in three months, I think about 20 percent of startups would be seriously affected. If it lasted six months, I think more than 50 percent of startups would be very seriously affected.
小微企业尤其困难，他们的融资渠道比较单一，银行也不肯给他们放款，在这个时候如果没有新收入，就面临着断流的危险。
MSMEs in particular face difficulties in accessing finance through a single channel, and banks are reluctant to lend to them, at a time when they are at risk of being cut off if there is no new income.
我们春节前有几家公司，已经做完DD（尽职调查），大年初十的时候，我们会把最后的流程走完，因为这时候不愿意去耽误创业者。
Before the Spring Festival, there are several companies, have done DD (due diligence), about the beginning of the year, we will be the final process, because this time do not want to delay entrepreneurs.
我们也劝他说，要把钱当做宝贝一样地，一分钱掰成两半花，因为不知道疫情会持续多久，要按照能够使用12个月的时间去规划。
We also advised him to split the money into halves as if it were a treasure, because it was not known how long the outbreak would last, and it had to be planned over a period of 12 months.
这次疫情也会影响我们投资机构，可能更难募到钱，原本能出资的个人或是企业，他们可能自己也受到了影响，或是他们心理上倾向于观望。
The epidemic will also affect our investment institutions, which may find it more difficult to raise money. Individuals or businesses that could otherwise contribute may themselves be affected, or they may be psychologically inclined to wait and see.
而且很多资产像商铺、土地房产的资产价格会降低，会变得有吸引力，这些地方会吸引钱进去。
And the asset prices of many assets, such as shops and land properties, will fall and become attractive, attracting money.
当然也会导致一些比较弱的投资机构被淘汰，头部的投资机构影响会小一些，但也有影响，所以我们接下来也会更谨慎，也会谨慎地去看待接下来的募资环境。
Of course it will also lead to the elimination of weaker investment institutions, the head of the investment agency will have a smaller impact, so we will also be more cautious and cautious about the next fundraising environment.
这段时间，我们的重点是在做投后管理，目前资金是充足的，等到疫情结束以后，要迅速地恢复到正常的投资轨道和步伐里。
In the meantime, our focus has been on post-shot management, and the funds are sufficient to quickly return to the normal investment trajectory and pace once the epidemic is over.
我们原有的计划是今年的投资项目也要跟2019年差不多，去年我们投了70多个项目，今年我们估计也要投60多个项目，但是现在第一季度不能很好地做投资了，就看二季度以后情况怎么样了。
Our original plan was to have investment projects similar to 2019. Last year we put in more than 70 projects, and this year we're going to invest more than 60 projects, but now we're not investing well in the first quarter.
掐了融资的念头吧，上半年不要想了叶东东 天使湾创投管理合伙人这两年资本形势本来就不大好，如果之前没融到资，自己现金流又不好，疫情一来，情况只会更加恶化，对这样的公司，我都会跟他们说：掐了融资的念头吧，上半年就算了，老老实实赚现金流，先养活自己。
The first half of the year, do not think about Ye Dongdong Angel Bay venture capital management partner these two years is not very good, if not before the capital flow and bad cash flow, the situation will only get worse, I will say to them: pinch the idea of financing, even if the first half of the year, honest cash flow, to feed themselves.
所以，这次疫情对两类公司影响最大。
So the epidemic is having the greatest impact on both groups of companies.
一类是企业一直想用成长性故事，用资本续命的模式发展，资本市场比较狂热的时候，这一类或许还有人买单，但是现在，就不要再抱有幻想了；还有一类公司，各项业务数据还不错，只是现金流还没回正，本来努努力跳一跳可能还能融到资，只要融到，那么还有机会留下，还能翻盘，但是因为这次疫情的影响，这个机会可能就没了。
One is that companies have always wanted to use the growth story, capital-for-life model, which may still pay when capital markets are hot, but now, don't be disillusioned; there are other companies whose business data are good, but whose cash flow hasn't been corrected.
风险投资这个行业最大的特征是，“资本”是有自我休眠功能的，一旦遇到黑天鹅事件，是可以不投的。
Venture capital is the biggest characteristic of the industry, "capital" is a self-dormant function, once encounter black swan incident, can not cast.
我们上半年的重要工作主要转向了投后管理，把已经在碗里的公司服务好，让他们更加健康地度过这次危机，新项目我们还会看，好的行业还会继续研究，但上半年出手应该会比较慎重，对保留的子弹会更加珍惜。
Our important work in the first half of the year has turned to post-release management, serving companies already in the bowl to get them through the crisis more healthily. We'll look at new projects, good industries will continue to study, but the first half of the year should be more cautious, more treasure the bullets retained.
说实话，在疫情爆发最严重的时候，我们还是比较担忧的，2月初，我们就在线上开了会，叫各个投资经理去摸底我们已投公司受疫情影响的程度，也收集了一些问卷调查，花时间一对一跟公司创始人开电话会询问需求。
To be honest, we were worried at the height of the outbreak. In early February, we held an online meeting to ask our investment managers to find out how well we had been affected by the epidemic. We also collected a number of questionnaires and took the time to call the company's founders one-on-one to ask for information.
非常幸运的是，我们投的公司整体受疫情的情况还好。
Luckily, our company as a whole is doing well.
有不少公司比较幸运，在2019年都完成了后续融资，有好几家公司一年完成了数轮，账上现金储备还是不错的，加上前两年我们投的公司都是偏大消费和产业互联网公司，自身现金流情况也还好，所以账上6个月以上的现金都是能保证的。
A number of companies are fortunate to have completed follow-up financing in 2019, several rounds a year, good cash reserves on their books, and the fact that the companies we invested in in the last two years were big consumer and industrial Internet companies with good cash flow, so cash on their books for more than six months is guaranteed.
当然，也会有少数公司，在疫情之前本身发展就不是很好，这次就更雪上加霜了，裁员反而多了一个说法。
Of course, there will be a small number of companies that did not develop well before the epidemic, and this time the situation has been made worse by layoffs.
所以，两极分化非常明显。
So polarization is clear.
你问如果半年之内疫情还不结束，那么我们投资的一些公司状况会怎么样，这样的话，的确挺讨厌了，有些现金流还没正反馈的公司，半年后就真的危险了。
You ask what will happen to some of the companies we invest in if the epidemic doesn't end within six months, which is really annoying. Some companies with negative cash flows are really in danger six months later.
所以，我警告我们一些现金流还没正反馈，但是靠前几年融资，账上还保有粮草的公司就一句话：未来半年，要把上一轮融资当做最后一轮，务必在现有的资金烧完之前，让公司实现盈亏平衡，这是一场生死之战，绝对不能掉以轻心。
So, I warn us that some cash flow is not positive, but thanks to a few years of financing, companies that still keep grasses on their books are saying: over the next six months, take the last round of financing as the last round, and make sure the company is even before the money runs out. This is a battle of life and death.
长期乐观是对的，但是短期过于乐观的话，怎么死都不知道。
Long-term optimism is right, but short-term over-optimistic, how to die do not know.
我从2010年起就做早期投资，也犯过很多错。
I've made early investments since 2010, and I've made a lot of mistakes.
教训最惨痛的，是2015年那波开始的O2O风口，我们投错了不少项目，校园O2O电商，上门洗车，上门按摩，共享厨房，同城物流等等，现在回头看，基本全军覆没，不堪回首，那一波也是我们经历的最大一次挫折，当然，这也是我们最大的一笔财富。
The most tragic lesson is that the O2O wind tunnel began in 2015. We made a lot of mistakes, such as O2O on campus, door-to-door car washing, door-to-door massages, kitchen-sharing, logistics, etc. In retrospect, it was the biggest setback we experienced and, of course, our greatest asset.
我经常会复盘那几年的失败案例，对当时的很多商业模式、商业逻辑会全面反省，很多低级错误现在看也可以避免，但为什么会犯那些错误呢？我觉得主要是独立的深度思考能力不够，对很多风口机会铺天而来的时候，被整个资本行业的狂躁影响了，第二个就是商业逻辑的思想实验推演不够，很多明明漏洞百出的模式，我们在自圆其说，强行美化说服自己，当一个职业投资人出现强行逻辑自洽的时候，是非常非常危险的。
I often revisit the failures of the past few years and reflect on many of the business models and business logic of the time, many of which can now be avoided, but why should I make those mistakes? The second is the lack of independent in-depth thinking.
▲共享模式曾经吸引了大批投资，但如今的境遇已大不如前，共享洗车就是其中之一。
Sharing has attracted a lot of investment, but today it's a lot less so than it used to be. Sharing cars is one of them.
图/ 网络踩了这些坑之后，从2017年开始，我就很少看只有成长性故事的项目，不仅看成长性，看商业模式，也会看现金流，不一定马上盈利，但必须要有现金流的闭环。
Once the pits are trodden on, from 2017 onwards, I will rarely look at only growth stories, not just growth, business models, but cash flow, not necessarily quick profits, but closed-loop cash flow.
因为我们就有铺垫，所以，因祸得福，这次黑天鹅事件对我们冲击其实比较小。
Because we have paved the way, therefore, due to good fortune, this black swan incident to our impact is actually relatively small.
现金流真的很重要。
Cash flow is really important.
去年年底，我看软银的年会，连孙正义都开始提现金流了。
At the end of last year, I watched Softbank's annual meeting and even Sun started to cash flow.
现金流这个词，他过去10年是从来不讲的。
Cash flow is a word he has never used for the past 10 years.
他投的好几家公司，像OYO，WeWork，都出现了严重问题，19年应该是他整个投资生涯中比较难熬的一年。
Several of his companies, like OYO WeWork, have had serious problems, and 19 years should have been a tough year in his entire investment life.
需要特别说明的是，我并不完全否定成长故事逻辑的早期项目。
In particular, I do not totally negate the early projects of the growth story logic.
任何时代的科技泡沫里都会出很好的公司，2000年互联网的泡沫，不是诞生了Google和Facebook吗？像共享经济、互联网金融、智能硬件这些风口，大家觉得有大量机会，蜂拥而入，把泡沫吹大了，虽然多数都倒下了，一将功成万骨枯，但是还是有一些公司走出来的。
The Internet bubble of 2000 did not give birth to Google and Facebook? There were plenty of opportunities to swarm in and inflate the bubble, even though most of it collapsed and would wither away.
只是一定要提醒自己的是，任何泡泡吹大之后，终归是要变现的，泡泡估值终归是要有东西撑得起了。
Just be sure to remind yourself that after any bubble is blown up, it will eventually be realized, bubble valuation is ultimately something to hold up.
这几年，为什么整个资本形势不大好，除了全球经济形势的大宏观之外，内在的核心，还是因为很多泡泡没有实际的东西撑起来，因为没有找到变现方式，或者找到了一直不能正反馈，最后投资人们都没耐心了，二级市场都开始破发了，一级市场的人又退不出来，而基金周期又已经过了第一个八年，十年，发现并没有看到传说中的暴富神话，于是，更加让很多人对创投市场产生了怀疑。
In recent years, why the overall capital situation is not good, apart from the broader global economic situation, or because many bubbles do not actually hold up, because there is no way to find liquidity, or have found no positive feedback, finally investors are impatient, the secondary market began to break, the first 10 years have not seen the myth of rich legend, so many people have more doubts about the venture capital market.
风险资本毕竟是有周期的，它的耐心是有限的，尤其在中国。
Venture capital, after all, has cycles, and its patience is limited, especially in China.
所以，资本没耐心了，也受伤了，也就更加保守了。
Therefore, the capital is impatient, also injured, also more conservative.
但是呢，很多人都在等新的浪潮出现，不用担心，当新的浪潮出现后，疯狂会继续重来，泡沫也会马上回来，这个是一个循环往复的游戏。
But a lot of people are waiting for a new wave to emerge. Don't worry. When the new wave comes along, the madness will continue and the bubble will come back soon.
在下一次浪潮没到来之前，我们更需要的是抓住一些细分的垂直领域的机会，因为大的、平台性机会越来越难了，说得难听点，现在大家更多的也只能是一些喝汤机会，还痴心于非要投中一个千倍、万倍机会的超级大家伙，我认为是不现实的。
Before the next wave arrives, what we need more than ever is to seize the opportunity to subdivide the vertical field, because big, platform opportunities are getting harder and harder to say, and now more of a chance to drink soup than a giant guy with a thousand and ten thousand chances. I don't think it's realistic.
▲2019年11月6日，软银集团CEO孙正义于日本东京公布第二季度财报，该公司运营亏损约65亿美元（约合455亿元人民币），为14年来的首个季度经营亏损。
On November 6, 2019, Softbank CEO Sun Ji in Tokyo reported an operating loss of about $6.5 billion (45.5 billion yuan), its first quarterly operating loss in 14 years.
图/ 视觉中国卖也卖不掉，救又救不起，那就好聚好散吧侯继勇 风云资本创始合伙人去年，我们跟投的那些企业说：现在这个环境下，突然倒下的可能性非常大，你们必须要留一年到一年半的钱，所以这次危机里，我们投的公司相对还好，因为都是一些比较头部的项目，而且公司之前做预算，都会把一些风险考虑进去，给自己留的钱比较充裕。
Last year, we told investors that in this environment, the probability of a sudden collapse is very high, and you have to stay for a year to a year and a half. So in this crisis, our companies are doing relatively well because they are head-comparison programs, and they have a lot of money left for themselves
如果只在账上留两三个月钱，那很恐怖。
It would be terrible to leave only two or three months of money in the account.
毕竟很多小企业很难达到银行贷款的要求，而且募资状况又很不乐观。
After all, many small businesses struggle to meet bank loan requirements, and fund-raising is not encouraging.
2015年，很多小公司只做3个月的现金规划，因为那时候的钱特别好融，创业者和投资人都特别乐观，大家也乱花钱，很激进。
In 2015, many small companies will do only three months of cash planning, when money is exceptionally flexible, entrepreneurs and investors are particularly optimistic, and everyone is spending recklessly and aggressively.
典型的就是当年出行行业拉新，发红包补贴，一个用户的成本是几百块钱。
Typical is the travel industry pull new, red envelopes subsidies, a user's cost is hundreds of dollars.
去年年底，教育行业也疯狂抢用户，七八千块钱抢一个人。
At the end of last year, the education industry also raided users, seven or eight thousand dollars to rob a person.
互联网金融、垂直电商那一拨烧钱也特别厉害，而且他们很乐观，觉得钱花完了，还会有钱，可以跟投资人说，现在有多少用户，给我一个新的估值，我融下一轮。
Internet finance, vertical business that a lot of money burning, and they are optimistic that the money spent, will have money, can tell investors, now how many users, give me a new valuation, I will be the next round.
以前野蛮生长，只要有用户，就可以等你变现，但现在竞争激烈，环境也不好了，讲那些故事没人听了，投资人也从强调用户、日活，到开始强调公司有正向的现金流，创业公司也可能来不及演化就死掉了，你是蝌蚪就是蝌蚪，在蝌蚪阶段就被干掉了，变不成青蛙。
Before barbaric growth, as long as you have users, can wait for you to realize, but now the competition is fierce, the environment is not good, to tell those stories from the emphasis on users, daily life, to the beginning of the company stressed that the company has positive cash flow, startups may die before evolution, you are tadpole is tadpole, was killed in tadpole stage, become frog.
其实公司2014年创立时，我就跟大家说，长期的繁荣肯定是不能持续的。
When the company was founded in 2014, I told you that long-term prosperity was not sustainable.
那时候，全国6万多家投资公司，搞全民创业，这是不正常的，让大家变得浮躁、冒进。
At that time, more than 60,000 investment companies throughout the country, engaged in entrepreneurship, which is abnormal, so that everyone become impetuous, aggressive.
之后环境不好了，很多人可能就手足无措，出现很多问题。
After the environment is bad, many people may be at a loss, there are many problems.
投资公司倒掉，不像创业公司动静那么大，更多是悄无声息的。
Investment companies fall out, unlike startups, more quietly.
行业里边，2017、2018年还是挺惨烈的。
Inside the industry, 2017, 2018 is still quite brutal.
那些公司很多都是2013年前后创立的，做房地产、能源攒的钱，还有煤老板，成立投资公司，几千万，或是几个亿，投几个项目，也有撒胡椒面投几十个项目的，每个项目投100万，后来项目都死了，基金没有收益，投资公司也做不下去了。
Many of those companies were founded around 2013, with real estate, energy savings, coal bosses, investment companies, tens or hundreds of millions of dollars, a few projects, a sprinkling of pepper for dozens of projects, a million per project, all dead, no money from the fund and no investment company to go on.
他们是站在2015年的时间点，用1995的投资方式去投资。
They stand at a point in time in 2015, investing in the way they invested in 1995.
我们一开始就很警惕纯概念型的公司。
We were wary of purely conceptual companies from the start.
2015年前后，O2O，智能制造的风口，我们都没赶，就只做了点尝试，但后来大部分不成功。
Around 2015, O2O, the wind tunnel of intelligent manufacturing, we didn't catch up, so we just tried a little bit, but most of it failed.
我们喜欢吃虾，当时投了一家公司叫大虾来了，送虾上门，自有物流，结果死得很惨。
We like to eat shrimp, then cast a company called prawn, send shrimp door, its own logistics, the result of a very tragic death.
现在基本只剩线下店了，线上走不通，那就跟开餐馆一样，钱也没法退出，所以这个项目就变成我们吃小龙虾的据点了。
Now it's basically off-line, not accessible, like a restaurant, and no way out of the money, so this project is where we eat crayfish.
一家投资机构，成不成，就靠头部项目。
An investment agency, unable to make it, depends on the head project.
所以我当时的投资原则就是，投头部项目，另外就是投头部创业者。
So my investment principle at the time was to put the head on the project, the other is to invest in the head entrepreneur.
再就是互联网+垂直行业的项目，比如我们投互联网+车，瓜子二手车，投互联网+生活服务，58到家。
Then there is the Internet + vertical industry projects, such as we cast Internet + cars, melon and second-hand cars, Internet + services, 58 home.
去年流传各种名单，生死簿榜，那种巨头型的创业公司倒掉，也会拉垮一些投资公司。
Last year the list of names, the list of life and death, the kind of giant startups to fall, will also bring down some investment companies.
创业公司不行了，投资机构也没有太好的作为，卖也卖不掉，救又救不起，那就好聚好散吧，如果创业者有能力，就下次再来。
Start-up companies can not, investment institutions do not have too good, selling can not sell, save and can not save, then good get together well dispersed, if entrepreneurs have the ability, next time.
我们团队从创立到现在，就基本维持在20多人左右，估计今年也不会招人，因为行业不太好，也没有那么多事情可以做了。
Our team has been around 20 or so since its inception, and probably won't be hiring this year because the industry is not so good and there's not so much to do.
最近也有来找我们募钱的项目，但我们还是先管好我们自己投的项目吧，投资人张颖不也说，重点的项目好好扶持，差的能放手就放手，新的项目要谨慎。
Recently, we have come to look for our fund-raising projects, but we had better take care of our own investment projects, investors Zhang Ying not also said that the key projects well supported, the poor can let go, new projects to be cautious.
疫情确实让我们的心态更谨慎一些，以前可以投的一些企业，可能也会观望了。
The epidemic does make us more cautious mentality, the former can be invested in a number of enterprises, may also wait and see.
怕你投了，他们也融不了下一轮。
They won't be able to finance the next round if you do.
但是我们觉得特别好的项目，不会因为疫情改变我们的决策。
But projects that we feel are particularly good won't change our decisions because of the epidemic.
▲自疫情爆发以来，一些公司倒闭。
Some companies have gone out of business since the outbreak of the epidemic.
图/ IT桔子新经济死亡公司数据库是疫情，也是机会卿永 番茄资本创始人我们投了不少餐饮品牌，餐饮行业是现金流进来快，出去也快的一个行业，平时现金流非常好，因为每天在营业，但一旦不营业，房租、人工成本，包括前期压的供应商欠款，都很大，就像一辆不能刹车的高速列车，它只能往前行驶。
/ [^ # 39 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105] / n.
所以我们在2015年投资以来就定下规则：现金流为王。
So we have set the rules since we invested in 2015: cash flow is king.
这两年也感受到一些比较悲观的因素，就更加反复强调了。
These two years also feel some more pessimistic factors, more repeatedly stressed.
因为过去储备的现金流会充裕一些，所以我们现在也有能力选择大胆做投资。
Because there used to be a lot of cash flow from reserves, we now have the ability to choose to invest boldly.
当然，损失是确确实实存在的，今年利润都不好看，我们也有些品牌会关掉一些不好的店铺。
Of course, the losses are real, this year's profits are not good, we will also have some brands will close some bad stores.
这次疫情，大年三十我们意识到可能会非常严重，马上成立了疫情援助小组，初一就跟所有的项目开会，摸底，给出个性化的建议，并且迅速联系所有的银行贷款机构，几乎把中国所有的银行政策都了解了，也帮助一批企业拿到了贷款。
We immediately set up an epidemic assistance team to meet with all the projects, map out the situation, give personalized advice, and contact all the bank lending institutions quickly, so as to understand almost all the banking policies in China and help a group of enterprises get loans.
资金问题，我让他们优先用银行贷款解决，如果有必要，我们就提供增资，所以我们现在每个项目资金都能支撑半年到一年的时间，甚至更久。
I asked them to give priority to bank loans, and if necessary, we increased our capital, so we now have six months to a year, or even more, for each project.
而且我们自己也会做一些调整。
And we will make some adjustments ourselves.
我们最近接触了一个项目，春节前有投资机构跟他们签了框架协议，估值也定了，但是遇到疫情，就趁机谈条件了，条款要变，估值要变，那创始人就不乐意了，找到了我们。
We recently came into contact with a project in which investment institutions signed a framework agreement with them before the Spring Festival and the valuation was set, but in the event of an outbreak, terms changed and valuations changed, the founders were not happy to find us.
确实会有一些机构，甚至是很知名的机构，有这种趁人之危、压低价格的想法。
There will indeed be institutions, even well-known ones, that have the idea of taking advantage of the crisis to keep prices down.
但我们在春节之前签的项目，我们没有提出任何附加条件，也没有去降低估值，反而加速了手续的办理。
But the items we signed before the Spring Festival didn't come with any strings attached, and instead of lowering valuations, we accelerated the process.
因为这时候创始人需要钱，需要安全感，我们这样做也能建立更良性的关系。
Because the founders need money and a sense of security, we can also build a more virtuous relationship.
对我们来说，这段时间找我们的项目比之前也更多了，一些原来我们一直在接洽，对方觉得不需要融钱的项目，现在也意识到了融资的意义和价值。
For us, this is the time to find more projects than before, some of the original contact we have been dealing with, the other side did not feel the need to raise money, and now also realized the significance and value of financing.
所以这次虽然是危机，对我们也有些正面影响，我们获得了更多的优质项目，而且原来的优质项目，也获得一些增资的机会。
So even though this is a crisis, it has had a positive impact on us. We've got more quality projects and some opportunities for capital increase.
这次疫情，很多人都会和非典对比。
This epidemic, many people will be compared with SARS.
非典之后有一批餐饮品牌死掉，同样也有一批品牌获得了快速发展，像小肥羊、眉州东坡，包括俏江南、百胜、麦当劳等等。
After SARS, a number of restaurant brands died, and so did a number of brands, such as Little Sheep, Mei Zhou Dongpo, including Jiajiangnan, Yisheng, McDonald's and so on.
所以我也告诉我们一些资金流非常充裕的项目，是疫情，也是机会。
So I also tell us that some projects with a lot of money flow are epidemic and opportunity.
我们的预判，如果3月疫情能结束，估计影响可能会在4个月左右，暑假期间就会相对恢复正常了。
Our forecast is that if the March outbreak is over, the estimated impact could be in the order of four months, with a relative return to normal during the summer vacation.
但是指望五一期间恢复正常，还是太乐观了，因为就算门店敢开，人们心中的恐惧还是会在，所以可能还是需要有一些替代性的解决方案。
But it is too optimistic to expect a return to normal during the May Day holiday, because even if the stores are open, fears will remain, so some alternative solutions may be needed.
如果对领域不专业，观望是安全的，但我们在餐饮行业里待了近5年，团队里很多人有二三十年餐饮工作经验，所以对我们来说，疫情没有改变什么，我们依然是看到好项目就立即下手，疫情对我们来说更像是一张出给创始人的考卷，多了一个检视的角度而已。
If it's not professional, it's safe to wait and see, but we've been in the restaurant business for almost five years, and a lot of people on the team have 20 or 30 years of food and beverage experience.
▲在这次疫情中，餐饮行业正面对着巨大的挑战，许多餐厅选择卖菜来缓解现金流问题。
In this epidemic, the restaurant industry is facing a huge challenge, many restaurants choose to sell vegetables to alleviate cash flow problems.
/ 网络每人互动你身边创业的朋友怎么样了？文章为每日人物原创侵权必究。
How are the friends you are starting a startup with? This article is a daily list of original torts.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
那些创业的年轻人，今年还能从蝌蚪变青蛙吗？。
Those young starters can change frogs from tadpoles this year?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "每日人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; everyday & quot;.
var msg_title = "那些创业的年轻人，今年还能从蝌蚪变青蛙吗？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;;
var msg_desc = "现金流很重要。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Cash flow is important.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="每日人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; everyday & quot;.
