活在聊天记录里的额温枪。
A frontal gun that lives in a chat.
每人作者。
Author per person.
每日人物                      。
Daily characters.
每日人物。
Daily characters.
轻商业，懂生活。
Light business, understand life.
。
.
疫情风口中的额温枪，身价匆忙间翻了数倍。
The price of a frontal gun in the mouth of the epidemic doubled in a hurry.
在货源不足的情况下，骗子、“倒爷”、和“散户”，数个上下家构成了看似紧张繁荣的买卖链条，只是，每一个入局者都无法侥幸。
In the case of insufficient supplies, cheats, "barons," and "retail", several up and down constitute a seemingly tense and prosperous trading chain, but everyone can not get away with it.
文 |王雯清编辑 | 钟十五 萧祷运营 |山山商机额温枪从来没有如此紧俏。
WANG Wenqing, editor and chief executive, has never had such a tight business opportunity at mountain top.
原本在天津做软件开发的孙飞发现，他的朋友圈里，有人正在叫卖额温枪，搭配上了“现货”“稀缺”的字眼。
Sun Fei, originally working on software development in Tianjin, found that someone in his circle of friends was bidding for a frontal-temperature gun, paired with the word "spot" and "scarce."
同款的东西，几个月前，他的同事在购物网站上买了一台，只花了68块，但便宜的额温枪如今怎么也买不到了，朋友圈里的标价是700元，涨了近10倍。
The same item, which his colleagues bought on a shopping site a few months ago, cost only 68 yuan. But now they can't get a cheap one.
疫情爆发后，体温检测成了甄别疑似患者的重要关口。
After the outbreak, temperature testing became an important screening point for suspected patients.
医用级额温枪不用接触、时间较短，依靠红外测量，在额头上一晃即过，因此成为公共场合体温检测的首选。
Medical front- temperature guns, which are untouched, short-lived, rely on infrared measurements and pass across the forehead, making them the first choice for temperature testing in public places.
伴随着企业复工步伐加快，额温枪的需求量也越来越大。
Along with the enterprise resumes the pace to speed up, frontal temperature gun demand also is getting bigger.
一“枪”难求，孙飞从中嗅到“商机”。
A "gun" is difficult to obtain, from which Sun Fei sniffs out "business opportunity."
▲近90天额温枪搜索指数变化，从1月底疫情爆发起迅速走高。
Nearly 90-day changes in the frontal temperature gun search index, from the outbreak of the outbreak in late January quickly went up.
图/ 百度指数2月9日下午，他在网上结识了周婷，对方除了卖医用防护服外，还有现货额温枪。
Picture / Baidu index February 9 afternoon, he met Zhou Ting online, in addition to selling medical protective clothing, but also spot frontal gun.
他们协定，孙飞以278的单价购买1000台额温枪，先付10％的定金，拿到快递发货回执单后再支付全款。
They agreed that Sun would pay 278 per cent for 1,000 front-loaded guns, 10 per cent down payment and a courier delivery receipt for the full payment.
“当时就想买一点然后卖了，因为不愁卖嘛。
"I wanted to buy some and sell it because I didn't want to sell it.
”孙飞说。
"said Sun Fei.
也不是没有怀疑过，可卖家提供了自己的身份证，他就此放松了警惕。
Not without doubt, but the seller provided his own identity card, he relaxed his vigilance.
本来约好当晚发货，但没过多久，卖家称有别的客户付全款订了1万台额温枪，货源紧张，要求孙飞支付50％的定金。
It was supposed to be delivered that night, but not long after, the seller claimed that other customers had paid in full for 10,000 units and that the supply was tight and required Sun Fei to pay 50% down payment.
等孙飞借到钱后，50％也不行了，要全款。
After Sun Fei borrows money, 50% also can't, want the whole money.
“后来冷静下来想，那个聊天很像刻意营造很紧张的氛围。
"Later, calm down to think, that chat is like deliberately to create a very tense atmosphere.
”孙飞说。
"said Sun Fei.
匆忙之中，他凑齐了近28万，坐等对方发货。
In his haste, he gathered nearly 280,000 and waited for the other side to deliver.
在广东东莞的吴哲付出的更多。
Wu Zhe paid more in Dongguan, Guangdong.
2月14日，他认识了钱宇，钱宇称自己有个上家，姓田。
February 14, he knew Qian Yu, Qian Yu said he had a family, surnamed Tian.
老田在厂里有关系，能搞到货，付清全款后，18到20号就能发货。
Lao Tian has connections in the factory, can get the goods, pay the full amount, 18 to 20 can be delivered.
两天后，在吴哲的要求下，钱宇出示了他和老田的合同。
Two days later, at Wu Zhe's request, Qian Yu showed his contract with Lao Tian.
“当时也怀疑，因为网上都没有，怎么他那里有。
"I doubted it at the time, because there was no Internet, so why did he have it
但钱宇说不用担心，可以把身份证都给你看，还可以视频验证。
But Qian Yu said do not need to worry, can give you identity cards to see, but also video validation.
”吴哲回忆，“我当初只是相信他，因为他的身份证和银行卡、支付宝都给我（看过），验证是真的。
"I just believed him because he gave me his ID card and bank card and paid for it," Wu recalled.
”吴哲没有想太多。
Wu Zhe did not think much.
今年33岁的他此前一直在郑州富士康工作，两年前来到东莞，在一家鞋厂负责采购。
The 33-year-old worked at Foxconn, Zhengzhou, and two years ago went to Dongguan, where he bought shoes from a shoe factory.
刚看到有人卖额温枪的时候，他便有了想法，“额温枪一般是工厂开工用，帮他们弄到，我自己也可以挣点奶粉钱，因为我小孩才一岁半。
As soon as he saw someone selling a warm-blooded gun, he thought, "Usually a frontal-temperature gun is for factory use. Help them get it, and I can earn some milk powder myself, because my baby is only a year and a half old.
”听说上家有货后，他在群里发布了有期货额温枪的消息，随后便有人加他好友，待出示了两份合同后，有两个下家各自打款，一个以335元的价格购买900台，另一个以340元的价格购买1000台，641500元的钱款打到吴哲账上，他和上家谈好的单价是320元，两单下来，可以从中得利33500元。
After hearing that he had a futures frontal gun in the group, he was joined by a friend. After the two contracts were presented, two families made their own payments, one for 900 units for 335 yuan, the other for 340 yuan, and 641,500 yuan for Wu Zhe.
接下来的几天，吴哲以为，只需要等待额温枪和“辛苦费”一起到来，疫情期间的日子虽是忐忑，但也有了希望。
Over the next few days, Wu Zhe thought that only to wait for the frontal temperature gun and "hardship" to come together, the period of the epidemic is perturbed, but also hope.
▲作为企业复工必备产品，即使价格一路走高，额温枪仍旧“一枪难求”。
As a business must-have products, even if the price all the way up, the frontal temperature gun is still "a shot hard to find."
图/ 网络逃难网络上，孙飞和吴哲这些转手额温枪赚取差价的人，被统称作“倒爷”。
Map / network escape network, Sun Fei and Wu Zhe these hand-to-hand frontal temperature gun earn difference person, be referred to collectively as "barbarian".
溯其词源，实有贬义，但对于亲历其中的人，这是一个机会。
To trace its etymology is pejorative, but for those who have experienced it, it is an opportunity.
在东莞，吴哲每个月拿5000块的工资，和妻子孩子住在一起，除去五险一金、吃饭房租之类，刚刚好够开销，偶尔能存下一点，家里还有个75岁的母亲留在河南，需要照顾。
In Dongguan, Wu Zhe gets 5000 yuan a month to live with his wife and children, except for five insurance, food and rent, just enough to save a little money, and a 75-year-old mother in Henan who needs to take care of her.
他很希望能挣到这3万多块钱，缓解生活压力。
He hopes to earn more than 30,000 yuan to ease the pressure of life.
天津上班的孙飞此时也正受疫情影响，困在家乡广东佛山，复工遥遥无期，他希望能靠这笔钱填补一点亏空。
Tianjin working Sun Fei is also affected by the epidemic, trapped in his hometown of Foshan, Guangdong Province, back to work, he hopes to be able to make up a small deficit.
可事情并未向他们所期待的方向发展。
But things did not go the way they had hoped.
孙飞的近28万转出去，迟迟未等到发货。
Sun Fei's nearly 280,000 turn out, delay waiting for delivery.
商定发货日期的次日，孙飞越想越不对劲，追着索要验货视频。
The day after the agreed delivery date, Sun flew over and asked for a video check.
当晚11点钟，卖方称发不了了，厂家没货了。
At eleven o'clock that evening, the seller said he could not deliver.
“那不要货了，退钱。
"No more, no more money.
”孙飞追问，对方也不同意。
"asked Sun, disagreeing.
他这时才意识到自己可能被骗了。
It was then that he realized that he might have been taken in.
吴哲参与的交易链条要更长，损失也更多。
Wu Zhe participates in the trade chain to be longer, also loses more.
到了约定发货的时间，上家一直没给他快递单号。
At the appointed time of delivery, the last home has not given him the express delivery list number.
傍晚6点左右，上家说被骗了，准备报警。
Around 6 pm, the family said they had been cheated, ready to call the police.
吴哲慌了神，也去了派出所。
Wu Zhe panicked and went to the police station.
在派出所，他见到了自己的下家石先生，让他没有想到的是，这位下家下面还有十多个下家。
At the police station, he met his own Mr. Xiacha Shi, let him not think of, there are more than a dozen under the next house.
▲疫情期间，女子花4万多元订购测温枪被骗。
During the outbreak, women were tricked into spending more than 40, 000 yuan ordering thermostat guns.
图/ 看看新闻经过长时间的解释与商量，凌晨5点钟，吴哲终于回到家里，孩子已经睡了。
picture / look at the news After a long time of explanation and discussion, Wu Zhe finally got home at 5 o'clock in the morning and the child was asleep.
他与妻子抱头痛哭，“我在想我这个家完了，小孩子怎么办，我坐牢了，老婆怎么办，家里的妈怎么办。
He cried bitterly with his wife. "I was thinking about the end of my family, what about the kids, I'm in jail, what about my wife, what about my mother at home.
”冷静下来，他想到下家要求第二天必须还钱，不然就去工作单位找他。
"Calm down, he thought of asking the next day to pay back the money, or he would go to work looking for him.
他怕有人会找妻子的麻烦，清晨6点左右，他再次出发去公安局，恳请警方把他关起来。
Fearing that someone might trouble his wife, he set off for the police station again around 6 a.m. and begged the police to lock him up.
“没有车，我走路去。
"No car, I'll walk.
在路上看到摩托车拉客的，我让他把我带到公安分局。
On the way to see the motorbike soliciting, I asked him to take me to the police station.
我到那里，门卫说你应该去派出所，我说我昨晚去了，现在能不能要求你们让我进去把情况再跟刑警说一下。
When I got there, the guard said you should go to the police station. I said I went there last night.
门卫说只能一级一级地往上报。
The guard said only one level could be reported.
”“求关”无果，他又走到公交站台，当时8点多，下家打来电话，称自己已经到了他工作的工厂里，要求吴哲在10点之前凑5万出来。
"Quan" failed, he went to the bus station, then more than 8 o'clock, the next home called, said he had arrived at his work factory, asked Wu Zhe to come out before 10 o'clock.
他找朋友借了钱，下家收到后，又要求他一天之内还清全款，“没有钱你可以网贷。
He borrowed money from a friend, and when he received it, he asked him to pay it back in one day.
”吴哲害怕了，既害怕与下家见面起冲突，又害怕被逼借网贷。
Wu Zhe was afraid, both of meeting with his family and of being forced to borrow money from the Internet.
他爬上工厂楼顶，在6层，发了一条朋友圈，突如其来的压力使他崩溃，他决定跳楼自杀。
He climbed to the top of the factory building, made a group of friends on the sixth floor, and when the sudden pressure broke him down, he decided to jump.
庆幸的是，家人及时阻拦，他没有走这条路，“我老婆说，既然发生了就算坐牢她也会等我。
Fortunately, the family in time to stop him, he did not take this road, "my wife said that since it happened, even in prison she will wait for me.
”为了安全，吴哲辞去了工作，带着妻子离开了工厂，住在亲戚家，“过着逃难般的生活。
"For safety reasons, Wu quit his job and left the factory with his wife, staying with relatives.
”起诉2月21日，吴哲的上家拿到立案通知书，警方告知，骗钱的人已经逃到国外了。
On Feb. 21, Wu Zhe's family got a case file and police said the fraudster had fled the country.
说好的额温枪成了空头许诺，上家也好，吴哲也罢，怎么也凑不齐数十万。
Said a good forehead shot into a promise of empty, whether on the home or Wu Zhe, how can hundreds of thousands of dollars.
上家告诉吴哲，接下来，他每个月打工，如果工资有5千，他就还4千，如果有4千就给3千。
Wu Zhe was told by his family that he would work every month and pay 4,000 if he earned 5,000 and 3,000 if he had 4,000.
吴哲跟他的两个下家协商，将上家赚的钱平均分给他们，下家不同意，称会找催债公司，也会准备起诉。
Wu Zhe and his two underlings agreed to divide the money equally between them. The family disagreed, saying they would find a debt company and prepare a lawsuit.
尽管在福建友通事务所律师颜双进看来，吴哲的行为并不涉嫌诈骗：他无法向下家按时交货，是一手卖家田某履行不能导致，吴哲没有非法占有下家货款的目的，可是此时的吴哲因为压力太大，睡不好，饭也吃不下去。
Though Yan Shuangjin, a lawyer at Fujian Youtong Service, saw that Wu Zhe was not involved in fraud: he was unable to deliver the goods to the next home on time.
“后悔啊，工作也丢了。
"I regret losing my job, too.
”孙飞也已经决定起诉。
"Sun Fei has also decided to sue.
只是在他报案的前一天，上家周婷先去派出所报了案，称孙飞涉嫌诈骗和洗钱。
Only the day before he reported the case, home Zhou Ting first reported to the police station, said Sun Fei suspected of fraud and money-laundering.
案情因此变得复杂，需要延期三十天审理。
The case was thus complicated and required an extension of 30 days.
在这一个月里，他相继接到周婷丈夫和朋友的电话，他们一个自称律师，另一个表明自己是催债的，好言相劝孙飞：“各退一步，这边退一半的钱，你就当花钱买个教训。
During the month, he received telephone calls from Zhou Ting's husband and friends, one claiming to be a lawyer and the other saying that he was a debt collector.
”相比之下，孙飞和吴哲与其被称作“倒爷”，不如被当做“散户”，他们的遭遇也并非孤例。
Sun Fei and Wu Zhe, by contrast, are treated as "retail" rather than "barbarians," and their experiences are not unique.
据公安部官方数据，截至2月14日，全国共破获涉疫情诈骗案件3600起，抓获犯罪嫌疑人1373名，涉案金额6691万。
According to official figures from the Ministry of Public Security, 3,600 cases of epidemic fraud had been uncovered nationwide, and 1373 suspects had been arrested, involving 66.91 million yuan.
涉及额温枪诈骗的也被算至其中。
Fraud involving a frontal gun is also included.
除了像孙飞和吴哲这样订单数量上千台的，还有很多人出于工厂复工需求、捐赠防疫物资等目的，订购了少量额温枪，他们是“倒爷”和“散户”的下家。
In addition to the thousands of orders like Sun Fei and Wu Zhe, many others have ordered small quantity of frontal guns for the purpose of returning to work and donating epidemic prevention materials.
方志远是安徽铜陵人，2月11日，经朋友介绍，他认识了自称有额温枪可发货的陈某。
Fang Zhiyuan is a native of Tongling, Anhui Province. On Feb. 11, after being introduced by friends, he met Chen who claimed to have a temperature gun to deliver goods.
方志远的工厂复工需要额温枪，再加上老家村里也有六七个关卡要体温检测，他想捐赠点物资，当日凌晨，他从陈某处购买了77台额温枪，共计15400元，约定早上安排发货。
Fang Zhiyuan needed a frontal-temperature gun to get back to work. In addition, there were six or seven check-points in his hometown. He wanted to donate some materials. In the early morning, he bought 77 warm-blooded guns from somewhere in Chen, amounting to 15,400 yuan.
发货单号没有如约而至，陈某称没现货，需要再等八九天。
Issue number did not come as promised, Chen said no spot, need to wait another eight or nine days.
方志远等不及，要求退回货款，却遭拒绝。
Fang Chi couldn't wait to get the money back, but he was turned down.
聊天记录中，陈某屡次威胁，“你求我帮忙卖给你的，没人绑着你，要你买、要你转账的。
Chat records, Chen repeatedly threatened, "you asked me to help sell you, no one tied you, you want to buy, want you to transfer.
”这让方志远很不理解，做生意，“没有金刚钻就不要揽瓷器活。
"This makes Fang Zhi very incomprehensible, business," without diamond do not do porcelain work.
”就在方志远转账的前一天，北京的王娟也正在帮助两位朋友采购一批额温枪。
"The day before the transfer, Wang Juanjuan of Beijing was helping two friends buy a pair of frontal-temperature guns.
对接上卖方后，对方先是许诺当天可以发现货，随后又改口，称只有工业额温枪，也可以拿来测体温，尽快打款才能拿到货源。
After connecting to the seller, the other party promised to find the goods on the same day, and then changed the mouth, saying that only industrial frontal temperature guns, can also be used to measure temperature, as soon as possible to withdraw money to get the source.
——而这种工业额温枪被普遍认为，未经专业调试时，误差较大。
But this kind of industrial frontal temperature gun is commonly thought that, without the specialized debugging, the error is big.
因为急需，王娟以322的单价购买了131台额温枪，分批转账4万多。
Because of the urgent need, Wang Juan to 322 unit price to buy 131 frontal temperature guns, batch transfer more than 40,000.
只是最终，她收到的快递单号都是空号，要求退款时也被拒绝。
It was only in the end that the express delivery numbers she received were empty and rejected when she asked for a refund.
需求事情过后，孙飞联系了接触额温枪生产的朋友，得出结论，“现在只要说手里有500把（额温）枪以上的都是骗子，都不要相信。
After the demand, Mr. Sun contacted a friend who made contact with his forehead, and concluded, 'Now just say that anyone with more than 500 guns in his hand is a liar.
”眼下的倒买倒卖，基本都是先预收货款，再通过各种渠道去找货，“甚至很多都是骗钱的。
"The current buy-back, basic is to receive advance payment, and then through various channels to find goods," and even a lot of money is fraudulent.
”额温计供应商九安医疗董事长刘毅称。
Liu Yi-hui, chairman of JiuAn Medical Group, a headthermometer supplier.
第一个发布额温枪现货信息的人，会通过n次方裂变的方式，聚集海量的资金和需求，而最终因为手上无货，一直拖延发货日期。
The first person to release spot information on a frontal-temperature gun gathers huge amounts of money and demand by fission n times, and ultimately delays the delivery date because there is no stock on hand.
刘毅认为，一些商家声称自己有上万只现货，这是根本不可能的。
'Some businesses claim to have tens of thousands of them in stock, which is simply not possible, 'Mr. Liu said.
据他了解，去年全年额温枪销售量不足200万台，现在全国一个月的公共卫生防疫需求已经达到1000万台。
According to his knowledge, fewer than 2 million quantity of frontal-temperature guns were sold in the past year, and now the demand for public health and epidemic prevention has reached 10 million nationwide.
“目前市场上所有厂家的产能都在用于政府的公共卫生防疫需求，基本上是零库存。
"At present, the capacity of all manufacturers in the market is used for the government's public health and epidemic prevention needs, basically zero inventory.
”医用级额温枪属于二类医疗器械，生产企业必须有医疗器械生产许可资质。
Medical-grade frontal-temperature guns belong to the second category of medical devices, and manufacturing enterprises must be qualified to produce them.
而如今对企业而言，扩大产能的难点主要来自供应链的压力：额温枪的生产涉及到100多颗原材料，受到疫情影响，如今供应商缺料，再上游的原材料企业也要面对产能不足的窘状。
For companies today, the main difficulty in expanding capacity comes from supply-chain pressures: the production of frontal-temperature guns, which involve more than 100 raw materials, is now out of reach for suppliers, and raw-material companies upstream face a shortage of capacity.
更重要的是，对于生产企业而言，商业需求已暂被搁置，要尽全力优先保障公共卫生防疫需求，特别是湖北疫区的需求。
More importantly, business needs have been put on hold for manufacturers, and every effort should be made to prioritize public health and epidemic prevention needs, especially in areas affected by the epidemic in Hubei Province.
▲疫情当前，许多医疗企业加紧复工生产额温枪等医疗物资。
At present, many medical enterprises to speed up the resumption of production of warm guns and other medical supplies.
图/九安医疗官方微博疫情风口中的额温枪，身价匆忙间翻了数倍。
Photo / Jiuan Medical official Weibo epidemic in the mouth of the forehead gun, the value of the hastily doubled.
在货源不足的情况下，骗子、“倒爷”、和“散户”，数个上下家构成了看似紧张繁荣的买卖链条，只是，每一个入局者都无法侥幸。
In the case of insufficient supplies, cheats, "barons," and "retail", several up and down constitute a seemingly tense and prosperous trading chain, but everyone can not get away with it.
刘毅预计，到4月份，随着额温计生产商的扩产，产能将进一步得到释放。
By April, Mr. Liu predicts, capacity will be further unlocked as makers of thermometers expand production.
如果疫情没有大的变化，额温计在国内的供需可能达到平衡。
If there is no major change in the epidemic, the supply and demand for a thermometer in the country may be balanced.
而赶在疫情结束之前，“额温枪！现货！”“5万台起订！”的字眼还继续出现在卖家的朋友圈中。
And before the end of the epidemic, the words "frontal temperature guns! Spot!" "50,000 sets of orders!" continue to appear in the seller's circle of friends.
（应受访者要求，孙飞、周婷、吴哲、钱宇、方志远、王娟为化名。
(At the request of interviewees, Sun Fei, Zhou Ting, Wu Zhe, Qian Yu, Fang Zhiyuan and Wang Juan as aliases.
）每人互动你身边有人在卖额温枪吗？文章为每日人物原创此文独家供稿腾讯新闻，未经允许禁止转载。
) Do you have anyone at your side selling a thermos gun? This article is an exclusive contribution to Tencent News by daily personage.
每人作者。
Author per person.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
已喜欢，对作者说句悄悄话。
Like it, whisper to the author.
发送给作者。
Send to author.
最多40字，当前共字。
Up to 40 words, currently in common.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
活在聊天记录里的额温枪。
A frontal gun that lives in a chat.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "每日人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; everyday & quot;.
var msg_title = "活在聊天记录里的额温枪";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; in a chat record.
var msg_desc = "每一个入局者都无法侥幸。
var msg _ desc = & quot; every player who entered the bureau was not lucky.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="每日人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; everyday & quot;.
