买菜群里的湖北人：半个土豆给猫半个土豆给自己。
Hubei people in the shopping group: half a potato for the cat half potato for themselves.
每日人物                      。
Daily characters.
每日人物。
Daily characters.
轻商业，懂生活。
Light business, understand life.
。
.
The following article comes from 谷雨实验室-腾讯新闻。
The following article comes from the Grain Rain Laboratory - Tencent News.
Author 姜思羽。
Author Jiang Siyu.
谷雨实验室-腾讯新闻。
Grain Lab - Tencent News.
腾讯新闻出品、谷雨工作室旗下栏目，聚焦深度图文内容。
Tencent news products, Grain Studio's column, focus on depth graphics and text content.
。
.
封闭的日子里，他们的注意力逐渐从“什么时候结束”转到“明天吃什么？”武汉是一座市井的城市，热情、粗糙、坚韧。
During the closed days, their attention gradually shifted from "when to end" to "what to eat tomorrow?" Wuhan is a city of markets, warm, rough and tough.
菜市场挪到线上，他们每天的生活从买菜开始——这成了一件大事：在团购群里、生鲜APP上、买菜接龙小程序上，分享菜谱，菜单。
The Halles moved to the market, and their daily lives began with shopping - a big thing: sharing recipes and menus in groups, on fresh APPs, and in shopping for dinners.
原本被忽略的很多细节，重新回到生活的中心。
Many of the details that had been overlooked returned to the center of life.
好好吃饭，成了人和人之间重要的情感纽带，也成了每天最大的期待和最大的快乐。
Eating well has become an important emotional bond between people, as well as the greatest expectation and the greatest happiness of each day.
文 | 姜思羽编辑 | 张亚利 金赫来源 | 公众号“谷雨实验室-腾讯新闻”十几个买菜群早上7：00，闹钟准时响起。
Ricky Cheung & # 44; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
陈强看一圈买菜APP、翻一遍12个团购的买菜群，搜寻划算的蔬菜果瓜，碰运气找找不贵的鸡胸肉或巴沙鱼。
Chen Qiang saw a circle to buy APP, over 12 group purchase groups, search for cost-effective vegetables and melons, take a chance to find inexpensive chicken breast or barracuda.
大概到了8点，起床准备过早——“过早”是湖北人吃早餐的说法。
About 8 o'clock, get up early - "too early" is the Hubei people eat breakfast.
陈强以前从不愁早上吃什么，武汉的早餐铺多如牛毛：三鲜豆皮、苕面窝、蛋酒、糯米包油条......现在的早餐比较固定，牛奶或面包。
Before Chen Qiang never worried about what to eat in the morning, Wuhan has a lot of breakfast shop: three fresh beans, Tiaoxiao, egg wine, glutinous rice buns... Now breakfast is more fixed, milk or bread.
幸运的是，一周前团的热干面终于到货了。
Luckily, the hot, dry noodles of the regiment arrived a week ago.
100份成团，每份50元，里面带5份面1袋面包，发在群里不到5分钟就凑齐了。
One hundred rolls, each worth $50, containing five loaves of flour and a bag of bread, had been assembled in the group in less than five minutes.
小区封闭后，他每天的生活从“买菜”开始，群里有人总结——“为了避免弹尽粮绝，武汉人作出了行动：睁眼……看团购信息……起床……看团购信息……洗漱……接龙……过早……接龙……做卫生……接龙……做饭……看接龙中了没有……付款……做晚饭……加团购群……看新的团购信息……拼手速抢团购……秒盒马秒京东……没秒到发朋友圈……继续求团购群……看团购信息……报计划……睡觉……”第一个加的买菜群叫“武汉蔬菜果瓜群”，他进去的时候是第400个，不一会儿就满了500人——陈强是在封城后，从外地自驾回来的，平常不爱社交的他，为了吃饭问题，开始加群。
After the community closed, his daily life began with "buy vegetables", the group summed up - "to avoid running out of food, Wuhan people have made action: see the group purchase information...
比起刚封城那会，现在买菜的便利度已经好多了。
The convenience of shopping is much better now than it was just when the city was closed.
刚开始，他没经验，渠道也少。
At first, he had no experience and few channels.
买菜的小程序刚发进群里，他点进去就没了，“以为是网速和手速不行，就蹲在路由器底下抢”。
Buy a small program just sent into the group, he did not go in, "think of the speed and speed of the network, squatting under the router."
第一次抢到5斤蘑菇时，很兴奋。
The first time I caught 5 jin of mushrooms, I was very excited.
“比双十一都刺激。
"It's more exciting than even 11.
”他说。
'he said.
陈强现在的存货：5个品种20斤的蔬菜——红菜苔、莴苣、蘑菇、茼蒿、大白菜；4斤白萝卜胡萝卜，“以前不吃，现在卖什么就先买什么”；鸡胸肉和巴沙鱼（主要是为猫采购，自己也跟着吃）。
Chen Qiang's current inventory: 5 varieties of vegetables - red vegetable moss, lettuce, mushrooms, garland chrysanthemum, cabbage; 4 catty carrots, "before do not eat, now sell what you buy"; Chicken breast and barracuda (mainly for cats, eat their own).
他的猫3岁。
His cat is three years old.
滞留在外那会，看着猫差点断粮，他在监控视频里第一次哭了。
Stay out there, watching the cat almost starve, he cried for the first time in the surveillance video.
猫粮没多少了，猫罐头下的单至今没发货。
There's not much cat food left, and the orders under the cans are still undelivered.
他开始学着做猫粮，猫粮由冰冻的巴沙鱼或鸡胸肉、鸡蛋和土豆混合而成。
He began to learn to make cat food, a mixture of frozen barracuda or chicken breast, eggs and potatoes.
他的食谱也顺着猫吃，给猫煮土豆的时候多切一个，炒成土豆片自己吃。
His recipes follow the cat's lead, cutting one more potato for the cat and frying it into potato chips to feed itself.
刚开始，猫不吃，但可能是看到见底的猫粮，也懂事地每次都吃光。
At first, cats don't eat, but maybe they see cat food at the bottom and eat it sensibly every time.
“我平时也劝导它，困难都是暂时的，罐头也会有的。
"I usually advise it, the difficulties are temporary, can also have.
”陈强给猫改了名字，以前叫“好评”，现在叫“会好的”。
Chen Qiang changed the cat's name from "good comments" to "good.
▲ 陈强的猫主子“会好的”。
Chen Qiang's cat owners "will be all right."
小多妈都不记得到底团了什么。
Little Mom can't remember what the tour is all about.
特殊时期，交通管制，送菜的时效性不能保证，通常三四天才能送到，所以她每天都要买菜，不知道哪个先到。
Special times, traffic control, the effectiveness of food delivery can not be guaranteed, usually three or four days before delivery, so she has to buy vegetables every day, do not know which first.
武汉家乐福、中百仓储等大型超市出了蔬菜套餐，物业或社区负责对接，微信群里发蔬菜套餐——不同套餐里包含不同的蔬菜或肉类。
Wuhan Carrefour, Zhong100 stores and other large supermarkets out of vegetable packages, property or community is responsible for docking, micro-letter groups of vegetables - different packages containing different vegetables or meat.
业主们用群接龙小程序报名，写清名字、地址、联系方式、想要的套餐。
Owners use group pick-up programs to sign up, write down the name, address, contact information, want the package meal.
每天下午两点截止，钱转给物业，物业再和超市对接，最后食材都会统一送到一楼。
Every afternoon at 2: 00 pm, the money transferred to the property, the property and the supermarket docking, the final feed will be unified to the ground floor.
为避免人员聚集，物业会统一分类后，挨家挨户地送上门。
To avoid crowd gathering, properties will be classified and delivered door to door.
想吃的菜能买到自己想吃的菜会带来额外幸福感。
The food you want to eat will bring extra happiness if you can buy the food you want.
周晓静最近的幸福时刻是在某生鲜APP上买到了排骨，早晨8点放菜，不到1分钟就被秒杀光了。
Zhou Xiaojing recently bought the ribs on a fresh APP, put the dishes on the table at 8 a. m., and was killed in less than a minute.
女儿喜欢吃糖醋排骨，但一直都买不到。
My daughter likes sweet and sour spareribs, but she never buys them.
以前一斤排骨吃一顿都不够，这次她打算分两次吃。
She had not had enough of a kilo of ribs before, and this time she planned to eat it twice.
周晓静是1月10日带孩子从北京回到湖北的，结果被“困”住了。
Zhou Xiaojing, who returned to Hubei with her children from Beijing on January 10, was trapped.
她有5个群，卖鸡的鸡群，卖鸭的鸭群，卖菜的菜群，还有物业疫情防控的群等。
She has five groups, chicken selling chickens, duck selling ducks, vegetable dishes, and property control groups.
想要买鸡，要凑够200个人买，一只50元，统一宰杀处理后配送。
Want to buy chicken, want to gather enough 200 people to buy, a 50 yuan, unified slaughter processing distribution.
初二的时候，她买到200个鸡蛋，这是她买鸡蛋最多的一次。
In her second year of junior high, she bought 200 eggs, the largest she had ever bought.
▲ 土鸡蛋配送群里经常有人发布团购信息。
Clay egg distribution groups are often issued with group buying information.
群里除了发团购信息，就是讨论如何买菜，谁有买到什么稀缺物资。
In addition to group buying information, is to discuss how to buy vegetables, who has what scarce supplies.
猪肉没那么好买，买到算幸运的人。
Pork is not so easy to buy, buy a lucky man.
商家配送还算及时，一般隔一天能送过来。
Distribution business is still in time, generally every other day can be delivered.
办了通行证的商家可以送到小区门口，周晓静戴上口罩拿上酒精去接菜——酒精是给菜消毒的。
Businesses with permits can be sent to the community door, Zhou Xiaojing put on a mask to pick up alcohol - alcohol is disinfected vegetables.
吃的最多的青菜是菜薹，“因为这种菜几天就能长一茬，卖得多。
The vegetable that ate the most was bolting, because this dish can grow a stubble in a few days and sell more.
”周晓静和孩子、父母住在老房子里，三室一厅还有阁楼，一个房间专门用来储存物资。
Zhou Xiaojing lives in the old house with her children and parents, with three bedrooms and a loft, and a room for storing goods.
山药、粉条、鸡蛋、牛奶、橘子、橙子、苹果、猕猴桃、柚子摊放在桌子和地上。
Yam, powder, eggs, milk, oranges, oranges, apples, kiwifruit, grapefruit stand on the table and on the floor.
圆生菜因为时间久了，已经打蔫了。
The round lettuce has wilted over time.
阁楼的阳台上挂着腊香肠、腊鱼、腊鸡等腊味，多是亲戚送的。
Attic balcony hung wax sausage, salty fish, bacon and so on salami, mostly sent by relatives.
周晓静本来想在厨房大展拳脚，还从北京带了自己花一万多买的厨师机。
Zhou Xiaojing had wanted to make a big show in the kitchen and brought her own cooker machine from Beijing, which cost her more than 10,000 yuan.
现在一看到那张从北京回武昌的火车票她就心情复杂。
The sight of the train ticket from Beijing back to Wuchang left her in a complicated mood.
她和妈妈下车的第一件事儿，就是吃了热干面，但后来还没吃第二次，疫情就来了。
The first thing she and her mother got out of the car was to eat hot, dry noodles, but before they ate it a second time, the outbreak came.
小区封闭后吃的最好的一餐是羊肉萝卜，用了从北京带回来的麻酱调料做蘸料。
The best meal the neighborhood ate after it was closed was a mutton turnip dipped in a sesame sauce from Beijing.
父亲把最后碗底的麻酱加汤都喝了，“以前没有人会这样。
My father drank the last bowl of sesame sauce with soup. Nobody used to do that.
”特殊时期，这四包麻酱调料显得弥足珍贵。
These four packets of sesame sauce are especially valuable during special times.
她家楼下本是一条很热闹的街，超市、餐馆、小吃一应俱全，她在这里长大，曾目睹这里的喧嚣。
She grew up in a busy street downstairs, with supermarkets, restaurants and snacks, and had witnessed the hustle and bustle of the place.
现在楼下一片寂静，偶有戴口罩的工作人员走动，有时候还能听到消毒车喷洒的声音。
There was silence below, with occasional staff wearing masks moving about, and occasionally the sound of disinfectant vehicles spraying.
堆满屋子的食材，让她获得了一种安全感。
She was given a sense of security by a room full of ingredients.
晒菜单小多妈每天都在群里晒菜单，用有限的食材做成好看的食物：豆腐脑、松饼、汉堡、豆皮、手工意大利面……她甚至可以花一整天做饭。
Sun Menu Little Mom used to bathe menus in groups every day, making nice food out of limited ingredients: bean curd, muffins, hamburgers, peas, handmade pasta... and she could even cook all day.
前几天做馒头只做了6个，丈夫问她：“为什么不一次多做点？”她觉得少做点，多花点时间，把食物做得精致漂亮，更有幸福感。
The other day, when she had made only six steamed buns, the husband asked her, "Why not do more at a time?" She felt less time, more time, more refinement and more happiness.
刚开始封城的时候，小多妈也很焦虑，抱着手机刷各个群里的小道消息，翻翻朋友圈，心里太难受了。
At the beginning of the closure of the city, mother is also very anxious, holding the mobile phone brush in the various groups of gossip, turn over the circle of friends, it is too sad.
她后来就不看了，专心看美食博主的文章，手机里除了买菜的APP就是做饭的APP。
She then stopped reading, focusing on the articles of the gastronomic blogger, except that the APP is the APP for cooking.
昨天，她做了汉堡，前一天揉面、发面，烤好面包，腌制好鸡腿，第二天做出来的效果和快餐店的一样。
Yesterday she made hamburgers, kneaded noodles, baked bread, preserved chicken legs, and cooked them the next day in the same way as fast food restaurants.
她把美食发在朋友圈，“外地的朋友说，之前都不敢看武汉人的朋友圈，现在每天看到我的朋友圈心里会好过一些，看到我们好好生活有些安慰。
"Friends in other parts of the country said they didn't dare to see the Wuhan people's circle of friends. It's a little comforting to see my circle of friends every day.
”一家三口在一起做意大利面。
"A family of three makes pasta together.
小多妈揉面，丈夫压面条，儿子在一旁做喜欢的造型的小西点。
Little Mom kneaded the noodles, her husband pressed the noodles, the son in the side to do like the modelling of the small West Point.
儿子还和她一起烤了苹果派，有时候还会问她：“明天做什么？”▲ 小多妈一家做意大利面。
Her son also baked apple pie with her, and sometimes asked her: "What do you do tomorrow?" The mother's family made spaghetti.
囤货多了，储存食物的技能必不可少。
As we hoard more food, the skills to store it are essential.
陈强在网上现学，在手机上记录：上海青，冰箱里保存2--3天。
Chen Qiang studied choreography on the Internet and recorded it on his mobile phone. He kept it in the refrigerator for two to three days.
青椒，一周。
Green pepper, a week.
萝卜3--5天。
Radish 3-5 days.
萝卜来了，要先把萝卜缨去掉，因为叶子会吸收萝卜的养分，让萝卜变糠，变软了没水分了，但也能吃。
When the turnip came, it had to remove the carrot because the leaves would absorb the nutrients and leave the carrot chaff, softened and dehydrated, but it could also be eaten.
绿叶菜要扎成小捆，根向下浸泡到水里。
Green leafy vegetables have to be bundled up and roots dipped into the water.
蔬菜中最多的是蘑菇，刚买回来就先放在冷冻层里24小时以后取出来，然后化开，用纸把水分吸走，再把蘑菇放入保鲜袋里，直接进行冷冻，就可以长期保存。
The most common vegetables are mushrooms, which are placed in the freezer for 24 hours after they are bought back. They are then melted down and soaked up with paper. The mushrooms are then placed in plastic bags and frozen directly for long-term preservation.
一瓶2L的冰红茶，他已经喝了2周多。
A 2L bottle of iced tea. He's been drinking it for more than two weeks.
每天都喝，但是还剩下大半瓶。
Drink it every day, but there's more than half left.
他总结经验，每次倒一点进杯子里，剩下的倒白开水，这样既有甜味，也有茶味，而且一次用不到10ML。
He emptied a little at a time into a cup, emptying the rest into boiling water, which smelled both sweet and tea, and cost less than 10ML at a time.
他发朋友圈开玩笑：“2L的冰红茶只要愿意，有信心喝到过期。
He made fun of his circle of friends: "2L iced tea, if you want, is confident that it will expire.
”疫情发生前，陈强几乎没做过饭，三餐要么在外边，要么靠外卖。
Before the outbreak, Chen barely cooked meals, either outdoors or by takeaway.
现在他每天必须下厨，烹饪只求“方便”，有时候一天三餐都是面。
Now he has to cook every day. Cooking is "convenient." Sometimes three meals a day are noodles.
“比如上午上海青面条，中午萝卜面条，晚上蘑菇面条。
"Shanghai noodles in the morning, radish noodles at noon and mushroom noodles at night.
”后来买的老干妈到货了，才得到改善。
"Then the old wet nurse arrived and got the better of her.
面条里放上老干妈酱，他觉得异乎寻常地美味。
The noodles were served with dried mother's sauce and he found them unusually tasty.
但还是馋，想吃螺蛳粉，下单了8家，期待着哪怕有一个能发货，但至今一家都没有。
But still greedy, want to eat snail powder, ordered 8, expect to have even one can deliver goods, but so far no one.
他还在一个生鲜APP上抢到了两条鱼。
He also grabbed two fish from a fresh APP.
拿回来还没死，他放在了洗脸盆里养。
He's not dead yet. He's in the washbasin.
想等他家猫“会好的”2月15日生日时给他清蒸，但鱼活了不到一小时就“去世了”。
He was steamed for his cat's birthday on Feb. 15, but the fish "died" after less than an hour.
放锅里蒸了一下，那算是小区封闭后吃的最好一餐。
Steam in the pot, it is the best food after the closure of the community.
最困难的情况是：冰箱坏了。
The most difficult situation is that the refrigerator is broken.
下面冷冻层的冰都化成了水，抽屉门拉不出来。
The ice in the freezer below melted into water and the door of the drawer could not be pulled out.
陈强慌了，“带来安全感的除了楼道里的消毒酒精，就是老冰箱散发的凉气。
Chen Qiang panicked. "Besides the disinfectant alcohol in the corridor, it is the coolness of the old refrigerator."
”不能找到维修工，他想先买个小冰箱对付一下，那种300元左右的。
Not being able to find a repairman, he wanted to buy a small refrigerator for about 300 yuan.
网上找了一圈，都被告知：“湖北不能发货。
Looking around the Internet, were told: "Hubei can not deliver goods.
”冰箱里的食物等不了。
The food in the refrigerator could not wait.
他决定自己修一修，按照网上的教程，他先把家里的燃气全部都关了，冰箱的电源也拔了。
He decided to fix it himself and, according to the online tutorial, he turned off all the gas in the house and pulled out the power in the refrigerator.
螺丝刀卸下了机壳，跟着视频那端的师傅查看压缩机、缓冲管和排水孔……折腾了五个多小时，再一关，果然冰箱就关上了。
The screwdriver unloaded the case and followed the master at the end of the video to see the compressor, the buffer tube and the drain hole...
一袋包子小区居民和社区之间，从来没有像现在这样紧密连接过。
Never before have the residents and communities of a bag of baozi been so closely connected.
菜通过各种渠道配送到小区后，需要社区和物业人员分菜送菜。
Cuisine distribution through various channels to the community, the community and property personnel to send vegetables.
他们按门铃，把蔬菜放在门口后离开，工作量很大。
They rang the doorbell and left the vegetables at the door.
小多妈小区的物业，十几个人轮班送菜。
Small multi-mother property, more than a dozen people in shifts to deliver vegetables.
凌晨一点，恒鑫美生鲜的老板闻龙的工作还没有结束，他本来是个农庄和果园的老板。
At 1 a. m., Hang Mei's boss Wen Long was not finished. He used to be the owner of a farm and orchard.
疫情发生后，他想把蔬果和食物运给被封闭在小区里的武汉人，开始尝试做蔬菜套餐配送。
After the outbreak, he wanted to transport fruits, vegetables and food to the wuhan people in the closed area, and began to try to make vegetable packages distribution.
每天早上七点开始，他就在市场采购，协调发货。
Every morning at seven o'clock he would shop in the market and coordinate deliveries.
由于配送不及时，每天咨询和投诉的电话也很多，他顾及不了投诉，把手机开启了飞行模式。
Because of the delay in delivery and the large number of daily calls for advice and complaints, he was unable to take into account the complaints and switched on his mobile phone.
有些蔬菜不能达到需求也做了适当调整，大多数时候，人们都能理解。
Some vegetables do not meet the needs of the appropriate adjustments, most of the time, people can understand.
周晓静偶然在一个吃喝玩乐群里看到了酒精和84消毒液，她立马买了1000多块钱的消毒用品，自己只留了1桶5L的酒精，剩下的都留给了社区工作人员。
When Zhou Xiaojing happened to see alcohol and disinfectant 84 in a group, she immediately bought more than 1000 yuan of disinfectant supplies, leaving only one barrel of 5 L of alcohol for herself and the rest for the community workers.
最初的焦躁过去之后，三代人聚在老房子里，每天有一个固定的下午茶时间。
After the initial fretting had passed, three generations gathered in the old house, with a fixed afternoon tea hour each day.
姥爷写完书法后，会召集大家喝茶半个小时，菊花金银花甘草泡茶，孙女喜欢跳舞，教大人一起跳，学完后，她还会像小老师一样检查效果。
After my grandfather finished writing calligraphy, he would call for half an hour of tea, chrysanthemum honeysuckle licorice tea, granddaughter like to dance, teach adults to dance together, after the study, she will also like a small teacher to check the effect.
姥爷就因为跳的不标准，被罚跳了3遍。
My grandfather was punished three times for not doing his standard jump.
这段日子，陈强遭遇过“断烟危机”。
These days, Chen Qiang encountered the "smoke crisis."
想抽烟的心情，“就像猫挠猫抓板的心情一样”。
Want to smoke the mood, "like cat scratching cat scratches the mood".
刚开始他想，这也是戒烟的好机会。
At first he thought it was a good chance to quit smoking.
但断烟一周后，他实在忍不住了。
But after a week's break, he couldn't help it.
就下楼想让门卫通融一下，但还是没放他出去。
I went downstairs to let the guard down, but I still didn't let him out.
特别难受的时候，他甚至想捡起楼道旮旯里的一个烟屁股。
He even wants to pick up a cigarette butt in the hallway when he's feeling really down.
“太浪费了，剩那么一大截。
"What a waste, so much left.
”他说以后等好了，抽烟要抽到烫手才罢休。
"He said he would wait until he got too hot to smoke.
他垂头丧气往回走时，门卫给了他惊喜，不仅送了他一根烟，还给了他一个卖烟酒老板的电话。
As he walked back down in frustration, the doorman surprised him with a cigarette and gave him a call from a liquor and tobacco seller.
他回去加了老板微信，发红包和跑腿费，老板找人送过去。
He went back to the boss to send a letter, red envelopes and errands, the boss sent someone to send it.
他一次性买了5条，还送门卫一盒。
He bought five at a time and sent the doorman a box.
困在40多平米的房子里，唯一的放风时间是取菜。
Stuck in a house of more than 40 square meters, the only time to go outside is to pick up food.
小区按照楼号，错开时间。
The neighborhood is staggered according to the building number.
那天，他拎着一兜青菜回家，看到一个头发花白，戴红手套的老太太，手里拽着一袋面粉。
That day, he came home with a bag of vegetables, and saw a gray-haired old lady in red gloves, clutching a bag of flour.
分发蔬菜的社区人员在后面喊：“我们一会儿给您送去。
The community member who distributed the vegetables called out from behind, "We will deliver them to you later.
”老太太摇头，自己走。
The old lady shook her head and walked away.
▲ 武汉社区，居民领取生活物资。
Wuhan community, residents receive living materials.
图/ 新华社那是位独居老人，不敢坐电梯，怕有危险，非要自己爬楼。
Tu / Xinhua News Agency is a lonely old man, afraid to take the elevator, afraid of danger, must climb buildings themselves.
陈强主动拐进楼梯间，帮老太太扛面。
Chen Qiang turned into the staircase to help the old lady carry noodles.
老太太放下面袋子，上气不接下气地说了一句——“你得跟我保持一米。
"The old lady put the bag down and breathlessly said," You'll have to keep your meter with me.
”面放在了三楼，临走，老太太主动问了他一句：“你住几零几？”陈强说了房号，就又爬了两层到家。
On the third floor, the old lady volunteered to ask him, "How many do you live in?" Chen Qiang said the room number and climbed two more floors home.
回到家把蔬菜放在门口通风，进屋设了闹铃，打算3小时后再拿进来。
He went home, put the vegetables in the doorway, set the alarm, and decided to bring them in three hours later.
还没到时间，门铃响了，他有点奇怪。
Before it was time, the doorbell rang. He was a little queer.
这时候来的，要么是物业，要么就是警察了，从猫眼里没看到人。
At this time, either the property, or the police, did not see people in the cat's eyes.
推开门，蔬菜袋子旁边多了一个白色的塑料袋。
Open the door, next to the vegetable bag there is a white plastic bag.
捡起来，热乎乎的，是包子。
Pick it up. It's hot. It's steamed buns.
他往楼下探头，看到了红手套，听到了气喘的声音。
He poked his head downstairs, saw red gloves, and heard breaths.
那晚，他给猫分了一半包子，吃着吃着有点热泪盈眶。
That night, he gave the cat half of the steamed bun, eating and eating a little hot tears.
*文中人物均为化名，部分图片由受访者提供。
* The figures are all aliases and some of the images were provided by respondents.
每人互动疫情结束你最想吃到的美食是什么？文章为每日人物经授权转载。
What food would you most like to eat at the end of each interactive epidemic? The article is an authorized reprint of the daily characters.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
买菜群里的湖北人：半个土豆给猫半个土豆给自己。
Hubei people in the shopping group: half a potato for the cat half potato for themselves.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "每日人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; everyday & quot;.
var msg_title = "买菜群里的湖北人：半个土豆给猫半个土豆给自己";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "好好吃饭，便是眼下最大的期待和欢乐。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; having a good meal is the greatest expectation and joy at the moment.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="每日人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; everyday & quot;.
