一个武汉姑娘和她的71篇方舱日记。
A Wuhan girl and her 71-piece cabin diary.
每人作者。
Author per person.
每日人物                      。
Daily characters.
每日人物。
Daily characters.
轻商业，懂生活。
Light business, understand life.
。
.
方舱医院像一座微缩城市，阿布在其间游走，写下方舱日记，记录不同的人间日常。
The hospital in the square cabin is like a miniature city in which Abu travels and writes down his cabin diary to record the daily lives of different people.
这些小红书上的日记，是在宏大的叙事之外，建立一份普通人的历史存档。
The diary in these little red books, beyond the grandiose narrative, is to create an archive of ordinary people's history.
方舱的日子一定都是快乐的吗？应该是不会的。
Must the days in the cabin be happy? It shouldn't be.
但是如果能在这些枯燥、充满未知的生活里寻找到一点点微弱的光芒，那些快乐的瞬间，是能够给人带来希望的。
But if you can find a little glimmer of light in these dull, uncharted lives, those happy moments can bring hope.
文 | 林念编辑 | 金匝运营 | 一凡1阿布记得，那是一辆白色的大皮卡，孤零零地停在街边。
RIM & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & #
时间临近晚上7点钟，路上没有什么车，武汉的气温降到了3度左右。
It was nearly 7 p. m. and there was no car on the road. The temperature in Wuhan dropped to about 3 degrees.
除她之外，驾驶座后方的车斗上坐着一位女士，三位男士。
In addition to her, there was a woman and three men in the sidecar behind the driver's seat.
他们都裹紧了衣服，蜷缩在车斗里，脸上蒙着口罩，看不清彼此的脸。
They were all wrapped in their clothes, curled up in the sidecar, their faces covered with masks, and could not see each other's faces.
那位女士呼吸急促。
The lady is short of breath.
她告诉阿布，她还在发烧，烧得有些糊涂了。
She told Abu that she was still feverish and burning a little confused.
而后，车开得飞快，风凛冽地刮在他们身上，每一次颠簸，都把车斗里的人震起。
Then the car sped along, the wind blowing hard on them, and each jolt shook the people in the sidecar.
阿布担心，自己会不会从车上掉下去。
Abramovich worries if he falls off the bus.
这辆皮卡的目的地是方舱的集中转送集合点，抵达之后，阿布会被送往武汉客厅，过去它曾是城市文化地标，疫情发生后，它被改造为方舱医院，床位达1461张，是武汉目前规模最大的方舱医院，负责收治轻症患者。
Upon arrival, Abu will be taken to the Wuhan living room, which used to be a cultural landmark of the city. After the outbreak, it was converted into a square-cabin hospital with 1,461 beds.
和阿布同行的4个人，都被确诊了新型冠状病毒性肺炎。
Four people who were travelling with Abramovich were diagnosed with a new coronavirus pneumonia.
阿布从未想过新冠肺炎会降临在自己身上。
Abramovich never thought a new crown pneumonia would befall him.
得知武汉有疫情后，她做了一切防护的措施，每天在家里喷洒消毒剂和酒精，奔去药店买来了奥司他韦和莲花清瘟作为预防的药物，叮嘱所有家人24小时戴上口罩，睡觉时也不摘下。
After learning of the outbreak in Wuhan, she took all necessary precautions, spraying disinfectant and alcohol at home every day, went to the pharmacy and bought oseltamivir and lotus rinderpest as preventive drugs, and told all family members to wear masks 24 hours a day and not to take them off while sleeping.
买好储备的食材后，她便极少迈出家门。
Having bought the stock of ingredients, she rarely went out of her house.
“妈妈，为什么不能出去？”3岁的女儿果果问她。
"Mom, why can't you go out?" asked the 3-year-old daughter Fruit.
“外面有一个大怪兽，出去很危险的。
"There's a big monster out there. It's dangerous to go out.
”阿布告诉她。
"Abu told her.
得到这样的回答，平时吵闹的果果变得懂事，只是偶尔会忍不住张望窗外的天。
Such an answer, usually noisy fruit become sensible, but occasionally can not help but look out of the window of the sky.
症状是慢慢显现的。
Symptoms show up slowly.
1月23日，阿布开始喉咙发痒，吃了药才转好，一周后，她出现了头痛、鼻塞的症状，浑身冒起了虚汗。
On January 23, Abramovich began an itching throat and took medicine to heal. A week later, she developed headaches, stuffy nose and sweating.
阿布的公公和婆婆也出现了类似的症状，2月4日，他们被断定为双肺感染。
Abu's father-in-law and mother-in-law also developed similar symptoms, and on February 4 they were judged to have a two-lung infection.
阿布慌了。
Abramovich panicked.
第二天，她和丈夫一同去医院做了CT检查。
The next day, she and her husband went to the hospital for a CT scan.
CT结果显示，阿布的右下肺叶感染，得到结果的时候，“那一下，就像一道闪电击中了我的脑袋，‘嗡’的一声，晴天霹雳。
The CT results showed that Abu's right lower lobe infection, when it turned out, "was like a bolt of lightning hitting my head, a buzz, a bolt of thunder."
”阿布的第一反应是“一定要把女儿保护好”。
Abu's first reaction was to "make sure my daughter is well protected."
她心里后怕，果果依赖她，这些天来，母女俩都紧密地睡在一起。
She was terrified that the fruit would depend on her, and that she and her daughter had slept together so closely these days.
她不得已和丈夫、女儿分开，独自住进了另一套亲戚空置的房子里。
She was forced to separate from her husband and daughter, and went to live alone in another family house.
第二天一早，母亲发来视频请求。
Early the next morning, my mother sent a video request.
一看事情瞒不住了，她只好坦白自己肺部感染的事实，“你们先别紧张啊，我和你们说件事情。
As soon as she could not conceal it, she confessed to the fact that her lungs were infected. "Don't be nervous, I'll tell you something.
”“你是不是确诊了？”母亲问。
"Have you been diagnosed?" asked the mother.
阿布点点头，这时候，手机两头的一家三口都陷入沉默，阿布看到，在一旁不发一言的父亲瞬间掉下了眼泪，她也忍不住哭了。
When Abu nodded, the family fell silent on both ends of the phone, and Abu saw her father, who had not spoken, shed tears in a moment and she could not help crying.
2月7日，她和丈夫、女儿前往酒店隔离，才抵达酒店，就收到了核酸是阳性的消息。
On 7 February, she and her husband and daughter went to the hotel for isolation before arriving at the hotel, where they received information that the nucleic acid was positive.
半小时后，社区通知她去武汉客厅方舱医院。
Half an hour later, the community told her to go to Wuhan living room cabin hospital.
不能和住在隔壁房间的果果正式道别，她只能发去视频通话请求，“果果，妈妈要去医院，因为妈妈生病了，你在这里要听爸爸的话，如果爸爸需要帮助，你一定要帮助他。
Instead of saying good-bye to the fruit in the next room, she would have to send a video message asking, "Fruit, Mom is going to the hospital because my mother is sick, you have to listen to Dad here, if Dad needs help, you must help him.
”果果点点头，“好的，妈妈，爱你哟。
"Fruit nodded." Okay, Mom, love you.
”“我也爱你。
"I love you, too.
”阿布说。
"said Abu.
几乎是毫无准备地，视频通话结束，阿布提着一个简易的塑料袋，随意地装上几件换洗的衣裤，坐上了那辆等待她的皮卡车。
Almost unprepared, the video call ended and Abramovich, carrying a simple plastic bag, casually packed a few change-of-clothes clothes and got into the pickup truck that was waiting for her.
到达下一个集合点，已经是晚上9点钟。
It was nine o'clock at the next rendezvous.
他们被暂时搁置在路边。
They were held up temporarily by the roadside.
在寒风中，阿布站得腿酸。
In the cold wind, Abramovich stood on his legs.
她突然想到，她即将要面对的，也许是一段非常难忘的旅程。
It occurred to her that what she was about to face might be a very unforgettable journey.
她在冷风中掏出手机，摄像头转向自己，“现在是2020年2月7号，我被确诊了肺炎，现在要去方舱医院了。
"She took out her cell phone in the cold wind and turned to herself." It's February 7, 2020, and I've been diagnosed with pneumonia.
”画面里，阿布戴着淡蓝色的口罩，一身白色的羽绒服，齐肩的栗色头发塞在帽子里。
"Abu wears a pale blue mask, white down jacket and shoulder-length chestnut hair tucked into his hat.
那是阿布第一条关于方舱的视频日记，迄今，她在小红书上共记录下了71条方舱日记。
It was Abu's first video diary of the cabin, and so far she has recorded 71 cabin diaries on Little Red.
▲ 阿布选择用记录的方式来度过在方舱医院的日日夜夜。
Abramovich chose to spend the day and night at the cabin hospital in record time.
图/ 受访者提供2来到方舱的第一个晚上，阿布没睡好觉，早晨6点便睁开了眼睛。
Photo / interviewee provides 2 The first night he came to the cabin, Abu did not sleep well and opened his eyes at 6 a. m.
开放环境下，人与人之间几乎没有隐私。
In an open environment, there is little privacy between people.
躺在病床上，阿布听见了许多声音。
As he lay in his bed, Abu heard many sounds.
一位上了年纪的阿姨在哭。
An elderly aunt was crying.
她才入院不久，焦急地冲医护人员求助，“我80多岁的妈妈还在家里，也感染了这个病，怎么办啊？她该怎么办？”一位男性操着外地口音，安慰电话那头的母亲和孩子，“不要哭，不要哭，不必担心我，我在这里一切都好。
"My mother in her 80s is still at home and she has the disease, what should she do?" A man, speaking with a foreign accent, comforted his mother and children on the other end of the line.
”抚慰完家人，他开始大口喘气，暴露出刚才悉心藏好的病症。
After soothing his family, he began to gasp, exposing the condition that had been carefully hidden.
有人每隔半小时询问自己的病情，反复回答过的问题，他仍要找来医生再确认一次，烦躁地在医院里来回地走动。
Every half-hour he was asked questions about his condition, repeated questions, and he had to call a doctor to confirm it again and walk restlessly back and forth in the hospital.
还有人不断嘀咕，“这里是什么鬼地方？不就是把我们拖来这里等死吗？”方舱才建成不久，硬件条件不好。
Still others murmured, "What the hell is this place? Isn't it dragging us here to die?" The cabin was just built, and the hardware was in bad condition.
移动厕所老出问题，水箱缺水，纸张和排泄物通通黏在排水口上。
Mobile toilets are often out of order, water tanks are short of water, and paper and excreta stick to the drain.
洗澡的队伍排得老长，浴室里，周遭的缝隙钻进飕飕的凉风，在方舱的20天里，阿布只洗过3次澡。
The bathing line was long, the bathroom crept through crevices in the air around it, and Abramovich bathed only three times during the 20 days of the cabin.
但问题总要克服。
But problems have to be overcome.
没有现成的晾衣绳，她把蓝色的垃圾袋撕成条状，拧在一起，制成一条简易的塑料绳，绑在床头，用来晾毛巾。
There was no ready-made clothesline and she tore the blue bags into strips and twisted them together into a simple plastic cord tied to the head of the bed to dry the towels.
她在角落发现了一个废弃的喷壶，得到医务人员的许可后，往里面灌上消毒液，分给身边的病友们。
She found an abandoned spray bottle in the corner and, with the permission of the medical staff, filled it with disinfectant and gave it to her sick friends.
“我不想去抱怨这些东西不好，只想尽量去理解它，它在最短的时间里能够做成这样已经很不错了，我总是这样对自己说。
"I don't want to complain about it, I just want to try to understand it, it's a good idea to be able to do it in the shortest possible time, I always say to myself.
”一场广场舞让人们看到方舱的另一面。
A square dance showed the other side of the cabin.
2月10日上午10点，当时七八位A8舱的病友们起床做运动，有人提议跳舞，他们便打开了手机视频，趁着音乐扭起了舞步。
February 10, 10 a.m., seven or eight of the sick people A8 out of bed to exercise, some people proposed to dance, they turned on the mobile phone video, while the music turned on the dance steps.
跳舞的视频被旁人发上了网，引来了热议。
The dance video was posted on the net by someone else, which led to a heated discussion.
医护人员们决定，广场舞自此作为方舱医院的保留节目。
The medical staff decided that the square dance would henceforth be reserved for the cabin hospital.
当天下午6点半，一位护士将扩音喇叭架在手机边上，放起了音乐。
At 6: 30 p.m. that day, a nurse placed a loudspeaker beside her cell phone and played music.
正值饭点过后，管床的护士们到每个病床前鼓励病友下床运动。
At the end of the meal, the bed nurses went to each bed to encourage their sick friends to get out of bed.
公共活动的空地上，人渐渐多了起来。
There were more and more people in the open spaces for public activities.
A区来了近四分之一的人，相互隔着1米左右的距离。
Almost a quarter of the population of Area A came from a distance of about one metre.
一位甘肃医疗队的护士在前头领舞，跳起了《火红的萨日朗》。
A nurse from a medical team in Gansu led the way in "Red Sunshine."
▲ 阿布用镜头记录下的这场舞蹈，感动了无数网友。
Abramovich recorded the dance with the lens, touched countless netizens.
图/ 阿布的小红书截图阿布没有跳，在一旁用手机录下了这一切。
Photo / Abu's red-book screenshot of Abu did not jump, and he recorded all this on his mobile phone.
她看到，医护人员穿着厚重的防护服，尽力地跳出轻快的舞步。
She saw the paramedics wearing heavy protective clothing and trying to jump out of their brisk dance steps.
阿布给这支舞取名叫“方舱舞”，发布在小红书后，吸引来了大量的点赞和评论。
Abu named the dance "square cabin dance," published after the small red book, attracted a lot of praise and comments.
即使在这样欢乐的时刻，冲突也不可避免。
Even in such joyous times, conflict is inevitable.
第二天，病友们照例跳着广场舞，一个披着卷发的高个儿大妈，快速冲上前，抢走了护士手中的话筒，对着话筒用高昂的声音说：“你们是很开心还是怎样？你们以为来这里是享福的吗？我告诉你们，过来都是来送死的，还跳跳跳……”人群停了下来，目光死死地盯住她，“你不跳你可以回去呀”，他们开始回击，“你不想治病就回去”，声音此起彼伏，越来越嘈杂，夹杂着当地特色的“汉骂”。
The next day, as usual, the sick fellows danced in the square, and a tall woman in curly hair rushed forward, snatched the receiver from her hand, and said in a high voice, "Are you happy or what?" The crowd stopped, fixed your eyes on her.
大妈愣住了，不再出声，把话筒往回一塞，骂骂咧咧走回了自己的病床。
Stunned, she stopped talking, pushed the receiver back and scolded back to her bed.
疾病面前，积极乐观是一种错吗？阿布琢磨过这样的问题。
Is positive optimism a mistake in the face of disease? Abu has pondered such a question.
刚来方舱时，因为核酸迟迟不转阴，阿布偶发焦虑和沮丧。
When he first arrived, Abu became anxious and depressed because of the slow passing of nucleic acid.
没有其他事情可做，她只能不断刷新闻，坠入新一轮的失望和恐惧。
There was nothing else to do but brush up the news and plunge into a new round of disappointment and fear.
进入方舱两周后，做完第二次核酸检测，结果依然是阳性，阿布给丈夫拨去电话，边说边红了眼眶。
Two weeks after entering the capsule, after a second nucleic acid test, the results are still positive, Abu to her husband dial the phone, said while red eyes.
她想念女儿，这是她和果果分别最长的一段时间。
She missed her daughter. It was the longest time she had had fruit and fruit.
果果为她画了一张画，画里阿布穿着裙子，身上点满黄色的病毒。
The fruit drew her a picture of Abramovich in a dress with yellow viruses on her body.
画完，果果挥舞着手里的画纸，在狭小的酒店房间里边跳边喊，“希望妈妈早点出院”。
After the painting, the fruit waved the hand of the paper, in the narrow hotel room jump in the shouting, "I hope my mother leave hospital earlier."
这些情节屡屡让阿布掉泪，“但我不想让自己一直纠结在病情上，想把情绪转换一下。
"But I don't want to let myself get stuck in a situation where I want to turn my mood around.
看到的那些不好，我会自动地过滤掉，这样才能保持愉快的心情。
When I see something bad, I filter it out automatically so I can stay in a good mood.
”▲ 画面中，果果挥舞着手上的画喊着：“妈妈早点出院，爱你哟”。
In the picture, the fruit brandished the picture in her hand and shouted, "Mother left the hospital earlier, love you yo."
图/ 阿布的小红书截图3为了控制自己的情绪，阿布卸载了其他的资讯平台，独独留下小红书这个生活方式社区，更新自己的方舱日记。
To control his emotions, Abu unloads the other information platforms and leaves little red-book, a lifestyle community, to update his cabin diary.
视频日记，她只拍快乐的部分。
The video diary, she only patted the happy part.
没有专业唱歌设备，一位医生举着平时的扩音话筒唱《成都成都》，把歌词里的“成都”替换成了“武汉”，病人围着他站成一圈，随着音乐节奏摇摆。
Without professional singing equipment, a doctor held up his usual megaphone to sing Chengdu, replacing "Chengdu" with "Wuhan" in the lyrics. The patient stood around him in a circle, swinging to the rhythm of the music.
阿布还拍摄了自己参加合唱团的过程，她穿着棕褐色的迷彩服，和病友们站成一排，排练《我和我的祖国》。
Abu also filmed her ensemble, dressed in tan camouflage and standing in line with her sick friends, rehearsing "Me and My Motherland."
医护人员不能带手机，让阿布给他们拍摄视频向家人报平安。
The paramedics were not allowed to bring their phones with them, and Abu told them to shoot videos to keep their families safe.
阿布的方舱日记登上了央视，连续播出了3集。
Abu's cabin diary appeared on CCTV and broadcast three episodes in a row.
她没想到，自己第一次上央视，竟是以新冠肺炎确诊患者的身份。
She did not expect that their first visit to CCTV, is to confirm the identity of the patients with pneumonia.
后来，她越来越熟练，举着手机正儿八经地采访医生，还窜到方舱一些不惹人注意的角落，拍摄她觉得有趣的画面。
Later, she became more adept at interviewing doctors with her mobile phone, and darted to unobtrusive corners of the cabin, taking pictures that she found interesting.
▲阿布的方舱日记登上央视的画面。
Abu's cabin diary appeared on CCTV.
图/ 阿布的小红书条件艰苦，阿布也自得其乐。
Tu / Abu's little red book is hard, and Abramovich is enjoying himself.
公共活动区域是一条露天过道，一边是卸粪车，另一边是移动厕所，阿布夹在中间悠然啃着苹果。
The public event area is an open-air walkway, with a cesspool on one side and a mobile toilet on the other, with Abu nibbling on the apples in the middle.
再往前走点路，能看到好一些的景色，“那里能压压腿、拉拉筋，也挺好的呀。
A little further on, you could see a better view. "It's good for pressing your legs and pulling your hamstring.
”她说。
'she said.
乐观的情绪会被感染。
Optimism can be contagious.
和阿布同一批进来的病友都是上了年纪的阿姨，她注意到一位60多岁的阿姨满脸愁云，话少，沉闷地坐在病床上。
Auntie Auntie, who came in with Abu, noticed a woman in her sixties sitting sullenly in her hospital bed with a sad face and few words.
阿姨的症状比较严重，她告诉阿布，她和家里人交代好了后事，“反正我是再也回不去了，要死也死在外面吧。
Auntie's symptoms are more serious, she told Abu, she told her family after the story, "I can not go back anyway, die also die outside.
”阿布和旁边的阿姨们找她搭腔，“我们不会和她说，‘你肯定会没事的’这样的话，那样的力量太单薄了。
"Abu and his aunts spoke to her." We're not going to say, 'You're going to be all right,' and that's just too thin.
大家会和她开玩笑，让她真心地笑起来，她反而会慢慢地转好。
People would make fun of her and make her smile from the bottom of her heart, but she would turn around slowly.
”五天后，那个阿姨终于露出了笑容。
"Five days later, the aunt finally smiled.
“回去还要操心做饭买菜，就在这里待着，还有饭吃。
"Go back and worry about cooking and shopping, just stay here and eat.
”她说。
'she said.
▲ 阿布入院第二天领到的饭菜。
The food Abu Dhabi received the day after admission.
图/ 阿布的小红书每回领饭菜或零食、发拖鞋，阿姨们都想着给阿布留一份。
Photo / Abu's Little Red Book Every time I get food or snacks and flip-flops, my aunts want to give Abu one.
医护人员发物资，如果有谁缺席，她们一定会多拿一套，生怕缺席的人饿了冷了。
The paramedics dispense supplies, and if anyone is absent, they are sure to get an extra set for fear that the absent will be cold and hungry.
阿布习惯了晚睡，晚上12点多钟，阿姨们看到她的手机还亮着光，冲她喊，“阿布，还不睡觉呢。
"Abu is used to going to bed late, and at 12 o'clock in the evening, his aunts see her cell phone still on and yell at her," Abu, not even sleeping.
”“阿布，早点睡觉身体才会快点好。
"" Abu, going to bed early will help you feel better.
”阿布无奈地笑，乖乖把手机关了。
"Abu smiled helplessly and turned off the phone.
早晨起来，阿布挨个催促她们起床打八段锦，“你们快下床，别睡了，颈椎都要睡断啦，还不下来运动？”方舱医院像一座微缩城市，阿布在其间游走，记录不同的人间日常。
In the morning, Abu urged each of them to get up and hit the eight brocade, "You get out of bed, don't sleep, cervical spine sleep, not down to exercise?" Fang Jiao Hospital is like a miniature city in which Abramovich travels, recording the daily lives of different people.
人来人往，难免出现争执，明明每人可以分到一瓶的酸奶，总有人成箱成箱地往自己的病床搬。
People come and go, inevitably disputes, it is clear that each person can be assigned a bottle of yogurt, there are always boxes of their bed to move.
因为各自想看的电视台不同，两位病人起了争执，惹来了附近驻守的警察。
The two patients got into an argument because the TV stations they wanted to watch were different and the police stationed nearby got into a fight.
方舱外人与人之间的贪婪、争斗，也毫不意外地在方舱里复制上演。
The covetousness and strife between outsiders and men in the cabin was not unexpected.
阿布在日记里把这些画面剔除，她更愿意记录病友间的互相支撑、医护人员的关照，她想给舱外的人带去能量和温暖。
Abramovich removed the images in her diary, preferring to record the mutual support of her patients, the care of medical staff, and her desire to bring energy and warmth to those outside the cabin.
在阿布看来，乐观真的有用。
In Abu's view, optimism really works.
她专注于挖掘生活里温暖部分的同时，方舱也发生着它的变化，某一天，她发现墙上长出了贴满便签的信心树，过了几天，医院的图书角又建了起来。
As she concentrated on digging up the warm parts of life, the cabin changed, and one day she noticed a tree of faith spread out over the walls, and a few days later the corner of the hospital was built again.
“城市”在不断变好，关系的藤蔓也在不知不觉间开始生长。
The "city" is getting better and the vines of the relationship are beginning to grow unconsciously.
即使医护人员只露出一双眼睛，阿布也能喊出他们的名字。
Even if the paramedics showed only one pair of eyes, Abu could have shouted their names.
阿布去领物资，一路上都有人和她打招呼，“阿布，你怎么还没出院？”“阿布，最近感觉怎么样？”。
Abu went to get the supplies and was greeted all the way, "Abu, why aren't you out of hospital?" "Abu, how are you feeling these days?"
阿布觉得自己像参加了一场“冬令营”，病友们像是同学，共同为一场大考做准备。
Abu felt as if he had taken part in a "winter camp." His sick friends were like classmates, preparing for a big exam.
▲ 阿布记录下的方舱医护人员。
Abu records the cabin crew.
图/ 受访者提供4发布方舱日记后，阿布在小红书上多了一些追随者，他们每天守着阿布发视频。
Photo / interviewee provides 4 release of the cabin diary, Abu in the little red book a few followers, they are watching daily Abu Dhabi video.
阿布发得晚了，他们急得给她留言，担心她的病情是不是出现了新变化。
They were so anxious to leave a message that they worried about a new change in her condition.
她成了大家在方舱的另一双眼。
She became the other eye of the crew in the cabin.
这双眼睛看到的，是实实在在的方舱生活。
This pair of eyes see, is the actual square cabin life.
像阿布这样，在小红书上分享疫期生活的用户还有很多。
Like Abramovich, there are still many users who share the life of the epidemic on Little Red Books.
武汉市同济医院肿瘤科的“牛牛妈妈”被调配到发热门诊后，开始在小红书上记录发热病区的日常，“作为80后的我们，小时候没有穿过纸尿裤，2020年，我们穿上纸尿裤，依然是美少女。
Tongji Hospital Oncology Department of Wuhan "Niu Niu mother" was deployed to the fever clinic, began to record the day-to-day fever areas in the small red book, "As a child after 80 we did not wear diapers, in 2020, we put on diapers, still beautiful girls.
”3月2日那天，发热病区开设满一个月时，牛牛妈妈和同事吃了“满月蛋糕”，照片里的蛋糕裹了一圈鲜黄色的芒果粒，“等大家都出院了，我们就可以‘封科’啦。
When the febrile zone opened for a month on March 2, cow moms and colleagues ate a "full moon cake" wrapped in bright yellow mangoes.
”一个名为“蓝宝石”的小红书用户是驰援黄冈的一名护士。
A Little Red Book user named "Sapphire" is a nurse who helps Huang Gang.
她分享了黄冈首例ECMO患者的抢救过程。
She shared the rescue of the first case of ECMO in Huanggang.
由于没有转运呼吸机，送患者去往CT室的路上，他们只能用手来反复捏呼吸囊，一路奔跑着，让患者顺利做了头胸部的CT检查，再将他送回了重症病房。
Since there was no transporter, they had to pinch the sacs repeatedly with their hands as they headed to the CT room, where they performed a CT scan on his chest and sent him back to the intensive care unit.
“这是一辈子珍贵的回忆，等多年后来看看这些，曾经的我们那么勇敢，为了心中的信念不惜一切，哪怕付出生命。
"This is a lifetime precious memories, and so on many years later to see these, once we were so brave, in order to the hearts of faith at all costs, even if the cost of life.
”她写道。
"she wrote.
封城封路的举措让线下的城市停摆，线上互动重要性凸显，越来越多的人涌进了小红书这座虚拟城市。
With the closure of the city, the importance of online interaction is highlighted, and more and more people are flocking to the virtual city of Little Red Book.
小红书社区生态运营负责人济颠觉得，幽闭在家的日子里，人们更渴望明亮的事物来照见生活。
The head of community eco-operations at Little Red Book feels that people crave bright things to see life during claustrophobic days.
这个城市在自发地萌生出各种小众的圈层，来到这里，可以轻易地寻见气味相投的人。
This city in the spontaneous emergence of a variety of small circles, came here, can easily find like-minded people.
页面像一块块长方形的窗格，窗格里传来家常菜的饭香，还能听到吉他弹唱的弦音，尽是日常。
The page was like rectangular panes, with the smell of homemade food coming from the panes and the strings of guitar playing, everyday.
小红书所在做的，是在宏大的叙事之外，建立一份普通人的历史存档。
What Little Red Book does is to build an archive of ordinary people's history beyond the grandiose narrative.
“方舱的日子一定都是快乐的吗？我想应该是不会的。
'Must the days in the cabin be happy? 'I suppose not.
但是如果能在这些枯燥、充满未知的生活里寻找到一点点微弱的光芒，那些快乐的瞬间，是能够给人带来希望的。
But if you can find a little glimmer of light in these dull, uncharted lives, those happy moments can bring hope.
”济颠说。
"said Jeep.
属于阿布的那一份故事存档还在继续。
The archives of the story belonging to Abu continue.
▲ 阿布转院前的最后一次记录，她说自己是最后一次在这个“客厅”录视频了。
For the last time before he was transferred to hospital, she said she was recording the video for the last time in the "living room."
图/ 阿布的小红书2月27日，阿布接到了转院的通知。
Little Red Book of Tu / Abu was notified of the transfer on 27 February.
她被转去中南医院进行下一步的观察。
She was transferred to the South-Central Hospital for further observation.
核酸仍没有转阴，她沮丧得很，小红书用户们鼓励她，“阿布呀，你就当作是高三没考中重点，再复读一年。
The nucleic acid is still not cloudy, she is very depressed, red book users encourage her, "Abu, you think is the third year of high school failed to take the key, re-read a year.
到中南医院就是读到火箭班去了，你肯定很快就毕业了。
To Zhongnan Hospital is to read the rocket class, you are sure to graduate soon.
”转院那天，阿布和熟悉的医护人员一一告别。
"On the day of the transfer, Abu said goodbye to the paramedics he knew.
不能接触防护服，她在相距半米左右的位置，和她们隔空做了一个拥抱的姿势。
Unable to touch the protective clothing, she was about half a metre away, and they made a hug at the space between them.
外地医疗队的医护们和阿布有一个约定，“等我们抗疫一周年，我们要再回来看一下。
The medical staff of the medical team in the field made an agreement with Abu, "We will come back and see the first anniversary of our fight against the disease.
”阿布答应，“好，不管是你们来武汉，还是我去广东或者甘肃，我们都要再见面。
"Abu promises," Well, whether you come to Wuhan or I go to Guangdong or Gansu, we will meet again.
”A8舱的阿姨们给阿布打包行李，担心她去了中南医院吃不饱，她们把自己平时省下来的榨菜、水果，统统放到一个纸箱里。
The aunts in Hatch A8 packed Abramovich's bags, worried that she would not get enough to eat at the Zhongnan hospital, and put all the leeching and fruit they had saved in one carton.
零食越积越多，纸箱被塞得鼓鼓囊囊，一个阿姨手脚利落地用胶带将它捆牢。
More and more snacks, cartons stuffed full, an aunt hand and foot with tape to bind it.
来的那天，阿布只有一个玫粉色行李箱，临走时，箱子变成了3个。
On the day of his arrival, Abramovich only had an May pink suitcase, which became three when he left.
6位病友拍了一张集体照，匆忙地建了一个“方舱战友群”。
Six sick friends took a group photo and hurriedly built a "squadron of comrades in arms."
再也没有时间可以做更多的道别，阿布带着这些零食，转去了中南医院。
There was no more time to say goodbye, and Abe took the snacks to the South-Central Hospital.
在中南医院的检验科，她拿到了第四次核酸检验结果，显示阴性。
At the South-Central Hospital's laboratory, she received the fourth nucleic acid test, showing negative results.
她兴奋地洗了头发，冲了澡。
She washed her hair excitedly and took a shower.
她的病房正对着武汉的双湖桥，晚上望过去，是一条紫色和白色交接的灯带。
Her ward facing Wuhan Shuanghu Bridge, at night, is a purple and white handover of the light belt.
桥两边的建筑的灯火，一天比一天明亮。
The lights of the buildings on both sides of the bridge became brighter day by day.
晚风吹了进来。
The evening wind blew in.
阿布想，春天，总归是要来了吧。
Abu thinks, spring, must be coming.
▲ 阿布在信心树上留下的愿望便签纸。
Abramovich's wishes on the tree of faith were signed.
图/ 阿布的小红书每人互动阿布的方舱日记给你的感受是怎样的？文章为每日人物原创侵权必究。
Photo / Abu's Little Red Book What does it feel like to have an interactive Abu's cabin diary?
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一个武汉姑娘和她的71篇方舱日记。
A Wuhan girl and her 71-piece cabin diary.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "每日人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; everyday & quot;.
var msg_title = "一个武汉姑娘和她的71篇方舱日记";。
var msg _ title = & quot; a Wuhan girl and her 71 cabin diary;;
var msg_desc = "一份普通人的历史存档。
var msg _ desc = & quot; an archive of ordinary people's history.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="每日人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; everyday & quot;.
