一家义乌「小龙头」的复工样本。
Sample of the resumption of work of a Yiwu dragon head.
陆云霏。
Lu Yun Fei.
城市OurCity                      。
City of OurCity.
城市OurCity。
City of OurCity.
关心每一位普通中国人的生活革命。
To care about the life revolution of every ordinary Chinese.
。
.
包车、包机、组织高铁复工专列，浙江省对于复工的急切在一系列的措施中展露无遗。
The eagerness to get back to work in Zhejiang Province is evident in a series of measures: charter cars, charter flights and high-speed rail lines.
为什么是浙江？为什么如此急切的复工？复工意味着一切回到正常吗？为了回答这些问题，我们找到了浙江省义乌市的一家民营龙头企业双童吸管，与董事长楼仲平聊了聊他的企业复工经验。
In order to answer these questions, we found a private enterprise in Yiwu, Zhejiang Province, two children straw, and chairman Lou Zhongping chatted about his experience of returning to work.
作者｜陆云霏设计｜范晓雯“双童离‘死亡’只有六个月！”这是义乌市双童日用品有限公司（后简称双童吸管）去年8月21日一篇公众号文章的标题。
+ less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + + + + + + + + + = + + + + + Children are only six months away from death.
这个加引号的“死亡”却在六个月后，切切实实地成为很多企业眼前的困境。
Six months later, the quoted "death" is a real dilemma for many businesses.
复工，是迫切的事情，但新冠疫情仍在，从政府到企业再到个人，又都被束缚着手脚。
It is urgent to get back to work, but the new crown is still alive, tied hands and feet, from governments to businesses to individuals.
当义乌走在前面，成为最早推进复工的城市之一，舆论给出了一种声音：“活该义乌人挣钱！”这是带有比照心态的赞扬，人们都希望能够比照着他们的样本，把复工这件必须要做的事情，更快速更安全地推进。
When Yiwu moved ahead and became one of the first cities to resume work, public opinion gave a voice: "Fuck the Yiwu for making money!" This was a praiseworthy compliment, and it was hoped that people would be able to match their samples and move back to work more quickly and safely.
2月中旬，浙江省政府开始从各地包车、包机、组织高铁专列接回务工人员复工，从中我们能够感受到这个省份的急切心态和行动能力。
In mid-February, the Zhejiang provincial government began to pick up workers from all over the country on charter cars, charters and high-speed rail lines, from which we could feel the urgency and capacity for action of the province.
在2月24日从汉中城固机场出发落地义乌的一架返工专机上，170位乘客从陕西返回义乌工作，其中一位名叫朱刚的乘客和他的四位老乡，共同搭乘了这趟飞机返回双童吸管上班。
A passenger named Zhu Gang and four of his fellow villagers took the plane back to work in Yiwu on February 24 from a reworking plane that landed in Yiwu from Hanzhong City Airport.
▲从陕西开往义乌的返岗专机不过说“返回”并不完全准确，这五人当中还有朱刚从老家“捎带”来的新员工，因为朱刚觉得“厂子福利待遇还是可以的”，加上公司针对“老带新”也推出了奖励政策，工厂需要工人，工人需要工作，顺顺当当。
The return flight from Shaanxi to Yiwu was not entirely accurate, but the five, along with Zhu Gang, a new employee from his hometown, thought the factory benefits were okay and the company introduced incentives for the old ones. Factories needed workers, and workers needed jobs.
随着这一批工人的就位，双童吸管的员工总体返岗数量在二月底时达到了三分之二，产能则已经恢复到了去年同期的70%。
With the workers in place, the overall number of workers returning from straws reached two-thirds at the end of February, and capacity has recovered to 70% a year earlier.
这是双童吸管董事长楼仲平给到我们的数据，而按照他对工厂复工节奏的划分，朱刚和他的老乡们的就位，表示着企业已经进入到了全面复工的第三阶段。
This is Shuangtong straw chairman Lou Zhongping to us data, and according to his division of the pace of factory resumption, Zhu Gang and his villagers in place, indicating that the enterprise has entered the third stage of full resumption of work.
作为义乌市第一批被批准复工的企业，楼仲平告诉我们，实际上所有的准备从2月4号就已经开始了。
As one of the first enterprises in Yiwu to be allowed to resume work, Lou Zhongping told us that practically all preparations had begun on February 4.
简单介绍一下双童吸管的背景。
Briefly introduce the background of twin straw.
这家民营企业成立于1994年，专业从事饮用吸管研发、生产和销售，公司占地15000平方米，拥有各类吸管生产流水线200多条，企业员工450余人，年生产各类吸管近万吨（200多亿支），产品供应国内外，在全球吸管行业都处于领先地位。
Founded in 1994, the company specializes in the development, production and sale of drinking straw. It occupies an area of 15,000 square meters, has more than 200 production lines for various straw production, employs more than 450 workers and produces nearly 20 billion tons of straw annually.
能站在复工梯队的前排，前提是足够规模化，这也在一个层面上回答了为什么复工的是双童吸管的问题。
Being able to stand in the front row of a rework echelon, provided it is large enough, also answers, on one level, the question of why it is a twin-child straw.
所有的答案当然不止于此，为什么是双童？为什么是浙江？复工意味着一切回到正常吗？在这些问题之下，董事长楼仲平和我们聊了聊他在企业复工过程中的经历和思考。
The answer, of course, goes beyond that. Why is it a twin boy? Why Zhejiang? Restarting work means everything is back to normal? Under these questions, Chairman Zhongping talked about his experiences and thoughts in the process of returning to work in the company.
OurCity前期快速，后期瓶颈我们是义乌市第一批批准复工的六家企业当中的一家。
We were one of the first six enterprises in Yiwu to approve the resumption of work.
2月3号，浙江省出了一个文件，《浙江企业复工和疫情防控17条规定》（简称17条），当时市里面就召集了一部分企业开会，我们企业作为第一批召集到的。
February 3, Zhejiang Province issued a document, "Zhejiang enterprises resume work and epidemic prevention and control 17 regulations" (17 short for short), then convened a number of enterprises in the city, our enterprise as the first to convene.
当时是鼓励企业自愿申报，政府通过对企业防疫工作的指导，进行风险评估，然后再进行批准。
At that time, voluntary declarations were encouraged, and the Government conducted risk assessments through guidance to enterprises on epidemic prevention before approving them.
我们在2月3号到4号期间，差不多到了一半的管理层和业务层，科室行政人员，包括技术人员，到了五六十号人；开工到10号左右，到了三分之一普通员工，整个加起来大概有一百多号人，占当时我们厂总员工的四分之一到五分之一左右。
Between February 3 and February 4, we reached almost half of the management and operational levels. Section administrators, including technicians, were in their fifties; around 10, one third of the regular staff, or about a hundred people, accounted for about a quarter to one-fifth of our total staff at that time.
10号之后，我们政府出台了各种支持政策，成立了10个工作组，到全国各个省，重要的劳务输出省，帮我们企业把员工带回来。
After the 10th, our government has put in place various support policies, set up 10 working groups to the various provinces of the country, important labor export provinces, to help our enterprises bring back employees.
初期是通过大巴的形式，包车回来，然后也有高铁专列，再到包机。
The initial stage is by bus, charter car back, then there are high-speed train, and then to charter.
这个过程当中，陆陆续续员工的端口就打开。
During this process, a staff member's port is turned on.
10号到20号期间，我们整个员工的情况是，行政人员、科室人员、技术人员和业务销售人员95%都到位了，普通员工始终只到了一半左右。
Between the 10th and 20th, we had 95% of the executive, section, technical, and sales staff in place, and only about half the regular staff.
▲员工乘坐包机到达义乌机场20号之后，员工进来得就非常慢。
Staff came in very slowly after arriving at Yiwu Airport on a chartered flight.
非常慢的原因就是，能出来的地方，通过我们的鼓励，通过政府的努力，也都出来了。
The reason for the slowness is that the places we can get out of, through our encouragement, through the efforts of the government, are also out.
出不来的原因就多种多样了。
There are many reasons why you can't get out.
有地方要让员工去做健康证，做健康证的过程当中，我们了解到很多员工就很困难，做的过程当中，可能在镇里要盖三个、四个的公章，要一个部门一个部门签，这个对一个基层员工来讲，他们是做不到的，他们也没有私家车。
In the process of making health certificates, we know that many employees have difficulty in doing it. In the process, they may have to build three or four seals in the town and sign one department after another.
有些地方也能出来，员工也很想出来，但是他没有公交，或者干脆镇里的道路封掉，有人封，但没人恢复，就一直断在那里。
There were places out there and the staff wanted to come out, but he didn't have a bus, or the roads in the town were blocked, sealed, but no one recovered, and remained there.
反正各种各样的问题。
All sorts of questions anyway.
现在义乌从十个工作组扩大到五十个工作组，已经细化到各个地区了。
Now Yiwu has expanded from ten working groups to fifty working groups, which have been refined to the regions.
我们厂里也成立了工作小组，专门把复工作为一件重要事情在推。
Working groups have also been set up in our factory to push back to work as an important matter.
跟着我们义乌的工作组，到当地除了召回老员工之外，也希望打开新员工的入口。
Along with our team in Yiwu, we went to the area to recall old employees, but also to open the entrance of new employees.
到现在为止，我们招了一二十号新员工，都是老员工带来的，因为我们也出台了一些奖励招工的政策。
So far, we've recruited a dozen new hires, all from older workers, because we also have some policies in place to reward hiring.
为什么后面没有新员工？是劳务市场没有完全开放。
Why are there no new employees? The labor market is not completely open.
一个，现在要求最多两百家企业进场招工，整个义乌几万个企业；另一个，最多只允许800个人进场找工作。
One now requires up to 200 companies to enter the market, tens of thousands of businesses across Yiwu; the other allows up to 800 people to enter the market looking for work.
两百家企业，一家企业四个人，成交率是很低。
Two hundred enterprises, one enterprise four people, the turnover rate is very low.
我们弄不好派几个人过去，一个人招不到一个人，这对于企业来讲是不可接受的。
It is not acceptable for a business to send several people over and recruit no one by ourselves.
OurCity做制定标准的人我们企业可以说在国内最早一批发布标准化复工防疫流程的企业，后来我们把它上报到国家标准化委员会上去了。
We were among the first in China to issue standardized back-to-work epidemic prevention procedures, and then we reported it to the National Standardization Council.
我们进行快速的组织架构的临时搭建，实际上就是把原来企业运用到管理当中的一套标准化体系，运用到我们的防疫当中去。
We carry on the rapid organization structure temporary construction, is actually uses the original enterprise in the management one set of standardization system, applies to our epidemic prevention.
因为大家都知道，现代工业的进步和发展，就取决于标准化思维，也就是模块化。
For we all know that the progress and development of modern industry depends on standardized thinking, that is, modularization.
按照这个思维，我们在10号之前就形成了一个规范的操作流程。
According to this thinking, we formed a standard operating procedure before the 10th.
首先成立防疫工作临时指挥部，然后分工到人流管控、隔离诊治、环境消杀、宣传教育、物资筹备五个小组。
First, the temporary command for epidemic prevention was set up and divided into five groups: crowd control, quarantine, environmental sterilization, publicity and education, and material preparation.
▲双童吸管的防疫组织架构这就需要人。
Twin children straw anti-epidemic organization structure this needs people.
在成立这个工作小组的时候，2月4号的时候，我们这里没人，只有我和总经理从三亚赶回来，其他的人都是留厂的普通员工，也就一两个干部留厂，当时是没有干部可以用，所以我们5个小组里面有4个小组都是用了普通的工人。
At the time of the establishment of the working group, on February 4, there was no one here except me and the general manager from Sanya. The others were regular employees of the factory and stayed with one or two cadres. So four of our five teams used ordinary workers.
就是在关键时候，我们是突破层级的，打破所谓权力的界限，敢于授权。
It is at critical times that we break through hierarchies, break the boundaries of so-called power and dare to empower.
把年轻人用起来，从而在赋予他们权力的过程当中，让他们去承担责任。
Use young people so that they can take responsibility in the process of their empowerment.
我觉得在关键的时候，这个很重要。
I think this is important at a crucial time.
OurCity危机不是突发的我并不认为危机是突发性的东西，这种规律虽然不是定期的，但它是有周期性的，也就是危机这个东西，它一定是一种自然的规律，总是会来临的。
The OurCity crisis is not sudden I don't think it's something sudden. It's not periodic, but it's cyclical. It's a crisis. It must be a natural law that's always coming.
既然会来临，或前或后你要去准备。
Since it will come, or before or after you have to prepare.
组织的危机意识是否强烈，决定了你这个组织是否能够在危机发生之时活下去。
Whether or not an organization is crisis-conscious determines whether it can survive a crisis.
我们平时还蛮重视这种危机的，有一句口号就是“双童离开死亡只有6个月”。
We usually attach considerable importance to this kind of crisis, there is a slogan is "only 6 months from the death of twin children."
大家时刻有意识，危机来临的时候，我们就能有应对的方式。
We are always aware that when a crisis comes, we can respond in a way.
这次危机对两类企业影响很大：第一类，投资过度，杠杆过大；第二类，处在转型当中。
The crisis had a significant impact on two groups of enterprises: the first, overleveraged and over-leveraged, and the second, in transition.
这两种现象，我们这个企业正好都处在当中。
In both cases, we are in the middle of the business.
去年我们刚刚完成了新厂房的建设，春节的时候刚把机器搬进去，还没安装，新厂房45万平方米，一个多亿投进去了；我们坚持了26年只做一根吸管，但去年年底的时候，我们已经明确从吸管这个领域走到可降解膜袋产品这样一个行业当中，也就是可降解塑料袋的生产当中，年前有一部分设备已经拉回来了，也是企业转型的重大投资。
Last year, we just finished the construction of the new factory building. We moved the machine into the factory before the Spring Festival, 450,000 square meters and more than a billion dollars into it. But by the end of last year, we were definitely moving from straws to degradable plastic bags, where some of the equipment had already been pulled back years ago.
但是我并不担心，我们的危机意识在于：第一，财务一定要保守；第二，战略上要保守、战术要转型。
But I don't worry, our sense of crisis lies in: first, financial conservatism; and secondly, strategic conservatism and tactical transformation.
该封闭的地方封闭，在金融上封闭。
The closed area is closed and financially closed.
哪里开放呢？在管理技术其他等等方面都开放。
Where is it open? It is open in management technology and so on.
我们去年完成二期厂房之后，我们这个企业还是没有破产，还是有现金储备。
After we finished the second plant last year, our company still didn't go bankrupt, we still had cash reserves.
危机对我们来讲，虽然有恐惧，但是没有恐慌。
For us, there is fear, but there is no panic.
恐惧会激发你的动力，但恐慌就会失去方向感，让你做出错误的判断。
Fear can motivate you, but panic can cause you to lose your sense of direction and make the wrong judgment.
作为企业来讲，做不好死掉那是应该的。
As a business, it's not a bad idea to die.
企业本质上跟人是一样的，它就是个生物体，弱肉强食，新陈代谢，遵循自然规律的优胜劣汰。
A business is essentially the same as a human being. It is an organism, predatory, metabolized, following the laws of nature.
OurCity浙江为什么“着急”？我觉得这次危机从全国的角度来讲，对浙江的企业伤害是最大的。
Why is Zhejiang "anxious"? I think this crisis from a national perspective, Zhejiang's business injury is the biggest.
因为浙江的企业个体最小、最分散、产业链最不紧凑。
Because Zhejiang enterprise individual is smallest, most dispersive, industrial chain is most compact.
像在2月20号之前，我们是要什么没什么，20号之后上游供应链还好一点，下游供应链依然是一塌糊涂，要什么没什么。
Like before February 20th, what we want is nothing, the upstream supply chain is a little better after the 20th, the downstream supply chain is still messy, what is it?
因为一个产品都是几十样、上百样东西组合而成的，缺一个东西哪怕缺一个小标签，都不是完整的商品。
Because a product is dozens of, hundreds of things together, the lack of a thing even a small label, are not a complete commodity.
这些供应链上的企业都是草根型的，往往分工极细，自己并不拥有产业链的深度。
These supply chain enterprises are grass-roots type, often very detailed division of labour, do not own the depth of the industrial chain.
这种细致紧密的生态系统很有活力，但一旦破坏了以后，恢复回来就比较难，需要很多时间。
This delicate ecosystem is dynamic, but once it is destroyed, it is more difficult and time-consuming to recover.
从2月4号开始，政府就催得比较紧了，给了我们一个礼拜的准备时间，10号就一定要复工。
Since February 4, the government has been pressing harder, giving us a week to prepare, 10 must be back to work.
一开始是要申报才能复工的，后面根据疫情的发展，复工的条件也是一直在变化，到了15号左右，报备就可以开工了，到了17、18号之后，我看也没有必要报备了，所有的企业只要符合条件，然后叫社区看一下你口罩有没有，消毒水有没有，隔离衣有没有，隔离房间有没有，有没有建立这个防疫工作的工作小组，有就可以开工了。
After the outbreak, the conditions for resumption of work have been changing. After the 15th or so, I don't think it is necessary to report. After the 17th and 18th, all enterprises should see if you have masks, disinfectant water, quarantine clothes, isolated rooms, working groups to set up the epidemic prevention work, and so on.
我们自己从年前开始就陆续筹措了一批像口罩、消毒水这些物资，政府也会发放给我们。
We have been collecting supplies like masks and disinfectant since years ago, and the government will distribute them to us.
我们人手不够的时候，政府还组织了一些志愿者来给我们做临时工，支持我们快速复产。
When we were short of manpower, the government also organized some volunteers to do temporary work for us, to support our quick return to work.
▲志愿者进入厂房协助复产2月26号到3月5号这9天的时间，政府还要求深入到各个地方的工作组，每个组都要拉回2000个人，50个工作组要拉回十万个人。
From February 26 to March 5, nine days after the volunteers entered the plant, the government also asked to reach out to local teams, each with 2,000 people back and 50 teams that wanted 100,000 people back.
工作组组长整天给我们打电话：你那边有没有员工，有员工赶紧给我，我来给你拉回来。
The head of the working group called us all day and said: Do you have any employees over there? I'll bring them back for you.
否则他任务完成不了。
Otherwise, he can't finish his mission.
你不觉得浙江是一个市场化机制最完善的省份吗？市场是理性的，我觉得浙江也好、义乌也好，它是基于这样一种理性的环境下，做出的一些判断。
Don't you think Zhejiang is a province with the most perfect market mechanism? The market is rational, I think Zhejiang or Yiwu, it is based on such a rational environment, made some judgments.
对于疫情、对于生产经济的恢复，浙江是两手抓、两手硬。
For the epidemic, for the recovery of the production economy, Zhejiang is a two-handed, two-handed.
这是基于以市场为导向的、以发展为根本的行政思维方式。
This is based on a market-oriented and development-based approach to administrative thinking.
毕竟，我们都意识到疫情虽然可怕，但不会比经济崩溃更可怕。
After all, we are all aware that the epidemic, terrible as it is, is no worse than an economic collapse.
OurCity后复工时期我们已经进入到复工后面的一个阶段了，订单不足这些问题就在这阶段开始慢慢显现，对于我们企业会有这样的压力。
We have already entered the back stage of the post-OurCity rework period, where the lack of orders is beginning to manifest itself, and there will be such pressure on our company.
我相信大多数企业都有压力，它一定是共性的问题。
I believe that most companies have pressure, it must be a common problem.
销售端对我们目前的影响比较大。
The sales side is having a big impact on us right now.
我们的产品跟食品有关，欧盟的客户在观望当中，部分客户也出现了退单，目前一、二月份的订单只有去年同期的四分之一都不到。
Our products are food-related, EU customers are on the sidelines, and some of our customers are returning bills. Orders for January and February are less than a quarter of what they were a year ago.
现在的情况就是，前期货干不出来，有货也运不出去，运出去的船只又有限，方方面面的问题。
Now, the situation is that the forward futures do not come out, goods can not be shipped out, the ship is limited, all aspects of the problem.
我们的传统市场就是欧盟、日本、韩国，这些国家一旦控制不住话，对我们这种企业造成的伤害，有可能比国内的疫情还更严重。
Our traditional markets are the European Union, Japan and South Korea, and if these countries can't control their words, the damage to our companies could be worse than the domestic epidemic.
因为上半年我们要把员工招够，但是招够了之后又没订单可做的话，那是很尴尬的事情。
Because in the first half of the year we had to hire enough staff, but after we had enough and no order to do, it was very embarrassing.
危机这个东西，它的影响第一它是滞后的，第二它是隐性的。
Crisis this thing, its influence first it is lag, second it is recessive.
我们现在到街道上去看，店铺开起来的比例是极低的，可能真的是不到10%。
When we look at the streets, the proportion of shops that open is extremely low, probably less than 10%.
这种情况下，你看似是少挣一个月、两个月的钱，但实际上真不是这样，经济是一个产业链，是产业规模的一个共振关系。
In this case, you seem to be earning less money for a month or two, but in fact it is not. The economy is an industrial chain and a resonance of industrial scale.
现在为什么街道上店铺少呢？因为还是处在相互之间的观望当中，某种程度上是进入到一种死循环或者说恶性循环。
Why are there so few shops on the street now? Because they are still on the sidelines of each other, to some extent into a kind of dead-end cycle or vicious circle.
也就是说，你觉得没有人又没有生意，然后你也不来开我也不来开，开的人就越来越少，越来越少的情况下消费者就没有。
In other words, if you think no one has a business, then you don't drive and I don't drive, fewer and fewer people drive, and consumers don't.
时间一长整个产业链断掉，断掉之后产业链的恢复就需要时间。
A long time the entire industrial chain broken, broken after the restoration of the industrial chain takes time.
这个过程当中会产生深远的影响。
The implications of this process will be profound.
@城市OurCity原创内容 转载请联系授权欢迎转发朋友圈History Review。
@ Original content reproduction of Urban OurCity please contact Authorization Welcome to forward History Review of Friends Circle.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一家义乌「小龙头」的复工样本。
Sample of the resumption of work of a Yiwu dragon head.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "城市OurCity";。
var nickname = & quot; City City & quot;;
var msg_title = "一家义乌「小龙头」的复工样本";。
var msg _ title = & quot; reinstated sample at & quot; & quot; a Yiwu "Little Dragon Head".
var msg_desc = "疫情虽然可怕，但不会比经济崩溃更可怕。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; terrible as it was, the outbreak was no worse than an economic collapse.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '封城一月，盒马不停',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
subject_name: '城市OurCity',。
Subject _ name: & apos; City OurCity & apos;;.
var title ="城市OurCity";。
var title = & quot; City City & quot;;
