“我丈夫感染了新型冠状病毒，治愈了”。
"My husband is infected with the new coronavirus and is cured."
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 活粒。
The following article comes from living grains.
Author 活粒。
Author live granules.
活粒。
Live granules.
联动三医，桥接资本，直达健康。
Connect three medicine, bridge capital, directly to health.
这是较早一批感染者之一，发病住院时还没有“新型冠状病毒”的称谓。
This is one of the earlier group of infected persons, the onset of hospitalization when there is no "new coronavirus" title.
经历17天隔离治疗，如今痊愈回家2020年1月11日，工作人员在武汉华南海鲜批发市场西区（主要经营海鲜、水产等）进行检查。
After 17 days of isolation treatment, now back home on January 11, 2020, workers in Wuhan, South China Wholesale Seafood Market West (mainly engaged in seafood, aquaculture, etc.) for inspection.
图/法新文 |《财经》记者赵天宇 信娜 辛颖 实习记者 朱贺编辑 | 王小丈夫感染过新型冠状病毒，痊愈出院已经一周，陈丹依然每天关注着武汉新型冠状病毒的病例情况和专家评论。
Caijing reporter Zhao Tianyu Xinying intern Zhu He has been infected with the new coronavirus and has been out of hospital for a week. Chen is still keeping an eye on the case of the new coronavirus in Wuhan and the expert review.
家住武汉，陈丹的丈夫曾去过武汉市华南海鲜批发市场，大约一周后，因咳嗽、发烧，2019年圣诞节前夕去武汉市同济医院就诊，谁想一去在医院过了新年，经历转院、隔离， 23天后，终于在2020年春节前痊愈走出医院。
Her husband had been to Wuhan South China Seafood Wholesale Market. About a week later, he went to Wuhan Tongji Hospital on Christmas Eve 2019 because of coughing and fever.
如今回忆起之前的诊疗过程，“都过去了，还好。
Now I think back to the treatment process before, "It's all over, okay.
”陈丹对《财经》记者说。
"Chen Dan told Caijing.
但是随着周围人听说这家有人患过新型冠状病毒，人际往来受到些影响。
But as people around them heard that someone in the family had been infected with the new coronavirus, people-to-people contact was affected.
截至1月21日24时，国内13省（区、市）累计报告新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎确诊病例440例，死亡9例。
As of 2400 hours on January 21, 440 cases of pneumonia with new coronavirus infection and 9 deaths have been reported in 13 provinces (districts and municipalities) of the country.
陈丹的丈夫，正是这440个确诊病例中的一员。
Chen Dan's husband is one of 440 confirmed cases.
患者曾反复发烧，但妻子没有感染起初，陈丹的丈夫开始咳嗽、发烧，家人都以为他是感冒了。
At first, Chen Dan's husband began to cough and have a fever. His family thought he had a cold.
2019年12月23日，他去武汉市同济医院看了病，医生认为是感冒，给开了治疗感冒的药物。
On 23 December 2019, he went to the Tongji Hospital in Wuhan City for a visit. The doctor thought it was a cold and prescribed medicine to treat the cold.
可是，回家后病仍不见好转，每天晚上发烧，察觉到有些不对劲，于是陈丹的丈夫又去同济医院，并住院两天。
However, when he got home, he still did not get better. Every night he had a fever. He noticed something was wrong.
“在同济医院时，他发病很厉害。
"When he was at Tongji Hospital, he had a bad case.
总在发烧，反复发烧。
Always feverish, feverish.
”陈丹告诉《财经》记者，丈夫平时身体很好，很少生病，吃感冒药的情况都很少，一般都能自己扛过去。
Chen told Caijing that his husband was usually in good health, rarely ill and rarely took cold medicine, and usually carried it himself.
武汉同济医院发热门诊 。
Wuhan Tongji Hospital Fever Clinic.
采访对象供图从临床表现来看，新型冠状病毒肺炎起病以发热为主要表现，可合并轻度干咳、乏力、呼吸不畅、腹泻等症状，流涕、咳痰等其他症状少见。
From the clinical manifestation, the new coronavirus pneumonia is characterized by fever, mild dry cough, fatigue, poor breathing and diarrhea. Other symptoms such as runny nose and cough and sputum are rare.
一半患者在一周后出现呼吸困难。
Half of the patients had difficulty breathing after a week.
在2019年的倒数第二天，同济院方将陈丹的丈夫转诊到武汉市金银潭医院，进行隔离治疗。
On the penultimate day of 2019, Tongji hospital referred Chen Dan's husband to the gold and silver pool hospital in Wuhan for isolation treatment.
同在这一天晚间，武汉市卫健委发布紧急通知，主题为“报送不明原因肺炎救治情况”。
Also in the evening, Wuhan city health committee issued an emergency notice, the theme is "reported to the treatment of pneumonia for unknown reasons."
其中写道，根据上级紧急通知，武汉市华南海鲜市场陆续出现不明原因肺炎病人。
According to the emergency notice, the South China Seafood Market in Wuhan City has been suffering from unexplained pneumonia, it said.
消息迅速传播发酵。
The news spread and fermented rapidly.
陈丹提到，丈夫发病前一星期左右，曾去过武汉市华南海鲜批发市场。
Chen Dan mentioned that her husband had been to Wuhan South China Seafood Wholesale Market about a week before his illness.
这个市场从2019年12月31日起已经被武汉市政府关闭，并进行了清理和消毒。
The market has been closed by Wuhan city government since December 31, 2019, and has been cleaned and disinfected.
中国疾控中心副主任、国家卫健委专家组专家冯子健曾说，通过各种各样调查，新型冠状病毒的相关证据大多指向华南海鲜批发市场。
Feng Zijian, deputy director of the China CDC and an expert on the national health committee, has said that through various investigations, most of the evidence for the new coronavirus points to the South China Wholesale Seafood Market.
此次新型冠状病毒肺炎在免疫功能低下和免疫功能正常人群均可发生，与接触病毒的量有一定关系。
This new coronavirus pneumonia in the immune function is low and normal people can occur, and the amount of exposure to the virus has a certain relationship.
如果一次接触大量病毒，即使免疫功能正常，也可能患病。
If you are exposed to a large number of viruses at once, you may get sick even if your immune function is normal.
陈丹丈夫在去过华南海鲜批发市场一星期后发病，这与后来公布的新型冠状病毒的潜伏期长度相吻合。
Chen's husband fell ill a week after he visited the South China Wholesale Seafood Market, consistent with the latency of the new coronavirus.
2020年1月20日，国家卫健委专家组成员高占成说，从现有病例来看，病毒潜伏期平均7天左右，短的2到3天，长的12天。
On 20 January 2020, Gao Zhancheng, a member of the National Health Committee Expert Group, said that the incubation period of the virus averaged about 7 days for existing cases, 2 to 3 days for short cases and 12 days for long cases.
与武汉新型冠状病毒属于冠状病毒家族β属的SARS病毒，潜伏期最常见为3—5天。
The new coronavirus belongs to the SARS virus of the coronavirus family. The incubation period is 3-5 days.
陈丹丈夫转院至武汉市金银潭医院，就开始了隔离治疗。
Chen Dan's husband was transferred to the gold and silver pool hospital in Wuhan and began isolation treatment.
金银潭医院以诊治传染病见长，该医院的感染性疾病科是国家临床重点专科，因此成为武汉专门收治新型冠状病毒感染肺炎患者的定点医院。
The department of infectious diseases in the hospital is one of the key clinical specialties in the country. As a result, the hospital is designated to treat patients with new coronavirus pneumonia in Wuhan.
据《新京报》消息，目前金银潭医院已禁止除相关医护人员和患者外的其他人进入住院大楼。
According to the Beijing News, the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital has banned all but the relevant medical staff and patients from entering the inpatient building.
在金银潭医院的17天里，由于是隔离治疗，陈丹见不到丈夫本人，送东西进去都是由医务人员帮忙转交。
During the 17-day stay at the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, Chen Dan could not see her husband personally because of isolation treatment.
被隔离的患者，可以用手机视频来向外面的亲人传递身体健康情况。
Isolated patients can use mobile phone videos to convey health information to their loved ones outside.
陈丹每天都会问丈夫，“病情怎么样了，发不发烧了？”作为较早一批感染的患者，陈丹和丈夫当时并无从知晓是病毒作怪，甚至丈夫感染的病毒名称——“新型冠状病毒”，都是世界卫生组织在1月12日才命名的，当时他早已在医院接受隔离治疗近两周。
Chen Dan asked his husband every day, "How's it going and I don't have a fever?" Chen Dan and her husband, the early sufferers, did not know it was the virus, and even the name of the virus, the new coronavirus, was named by the World Health Organization on January 12 after nearly two weeks of isolation in a hospital.
往前回溯，从丈夫开始发烧，一直到转入金银潭医院之前这段时间，陈丹一直在丈夫身边照顾他。
Retrospective, Chen Dan was at her husband's side from the time he developed a fever until he was transferred to the Golden and Silver Pool Hospital.
陈丹的丈夫住进金银潭医院第二天，2019年12月31日，武汉市卫健委发布通报，当时已发现27例确诊病例，其中7例病情严重，“经多方分析，上述病例系病毒性肺炎，且未发现明显人传人现象”。
Chen Dan's husband was admitted to the Golden and Silver Pool Hospital the next day. On December 31, 2019, Wuhan Health Commission announced that 27 confirmed cases had been found, 7 of which were serious.
随着病例数增长、研究的深入，半个月后，2020年1月15日，武汉市卫健委在描述新型病毒传播途径时，增加了“不能排除有限人传人可能”。
As the number of cases grew and the study progressed, half a month later, on January 15, 2020, the Wuhan Health Commission added the phrase "limited human-to-human transmission may not be excluded" to describe the new virus transmission route.
1月20日，钟南山在介绍疫情防控情况的记者会上说，已经“证实了有人传人的传染。
On January 20, Zhong Nan-shan told a press conference on the prevention and control of the epidemic that "human-to-human transmission has been confirmed."
”彼时，陈丹的丈夫已经治愈出院了。
Chen's husband was then cured and discharged.
幸运的是，陈丹没有感染新型冠状病毒。
Fortunately, Chen Dan was not infected with the new coronavirus.
“我不放心，自己去金银潭医院查了一下，采血检查后，没什么问题。
'I'm not sure, 'he said.' I went to the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital to check.
”陈丹一家为此庆幸。
"The family congratulated themselves.
隔离17天治愈出院“我一直都很担心。
17 days of isolation Healing out of hospital "I was always worried.
”陈丹告诉《财经》记者，丈夫住院时没有特效药，家人难免担心。
Chen told Caijing that her husband had no specific medication when he was hospitalized and his family was unavoidably worried.
国家卫健委高级别专家组组长、中国工程院院士钟南山在1月20日的疫情防控情况的记者会上说，到现在为止，针对病情还没有特效药。
At a news conference on January 20, Zhong Nan-shan, a member of the Chinese Academy of Engineering and head of the high-level group of experts, said there was no specific cure for the disease.
“说实在的，17年前的非典到这个阶段为止也没有特效药，非常难。
"In fact, 17 years ago SARS at this stage there is no specific drugs, very difficult.
”在金银潭医院治疗了一个星期左右，陈丹的丈夫病情开始出现好转的迹象，慢慢就不咳嗽、不发烧了。
After being treated at the Golden and Silver Pool Hospital for about a week, Chen's husband began to show signs of improvement and gradually stopped coughing and running a fever.
具体治疗用药方案，他们并不清楚。
They don't know exactly what the treatment plan will be.
《财经》记者获悉，1月21日，中部地区某县卫生管理部门下发了一则通知，主题为“新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎治疗和防控等方案》（下称“诊疗方案”），来源是国家卫健委，时间为1月15日。
On January 21, the Health Administration of a county in the central region issued a notice on the treatment and prevention of pneumonia for a new coronavirus infection (hereinafter referred to as the "Diagnosis and Treatment Programme").
该诊疗方案显示，如果患者确诊新型冠状病毒肺炎，一般治疗方案需要卧床休息，保证充分热量，注意水、电解质平衡，监测生命体征、指氧饱和度，并根据病情监测血常规、尿常规以及生化指标、凝血功能等。
If the patient is diagnosed with the new coronavirus pneumonia, the general treatment plan needs to rest in bed, ensure adequate heat, pay attention to the water and electrolyte balance, monitor vital signs, oxygen saturation, and monitor blood routine, urine routine and biochemical indicators, coagulation function and so on.
并且，依据病情程度，新型冠状病毒患者还可以接受氧疗、抗病毒治疗、抗菌药物治疗以及中医药治疗，这也是比较常见的治疗方法。
And, depending on the severity of the disease, patients with the new coronavirus can also receive oxygen therapy, antiviral treatment, antibacterial drugs and Chinese medicine treatment, which is also a relatively common treatment.
该诊疗方案建议，可试用α-干扰素雾化吸入，疗程至少5天。
The diagnosis and treatment plan suggests a trial period of at least 5 days for inhalation of quotient-interferon aerosols.
干扰素具有广谱的抗病毒及免疫调节作用。
Interferon has broad-spectrum antiviral and immunomodulatory effects.
雾化吸入疗法，是用专用的雾化装置，使药物直接作用于气道黏膜，达到洁净、湿化气道，起效迅速、疗效确切。
Aerosol inhalation therapy is a special atomization device, so that drugs directly affect the airway mucosa, to achieve clean, wet airway, effective and accurate.
常用于慢性支气管炎急性发作、儿童流行性感冒等。
Often used in chronic bronchitis acute attack, children influenza, etc.
在金银潭医院的17天里，在陈丹看来，丈夫的治疗过程与普通的肺炎等疾病看起来差不多，有时候她会在和丈夫视频时，看到早上丈夫在输液；有时候丈夫会提到，今天又抽了血。
During her 17 days at the Golden Pool Hospital, Chen Dan said her husband's treatment appeared to be similar to that of ordinary pneumonia. Sometimes she watched her husband receive an infusion in the morning while he watched the video.
按照上述诊疗方案，如果患者的病情进展到危重症阶段，医院可能采取呼吸支持，使用“肺保护性通气策略”以降低呼吸机相关肺损伤。
According to the above-mentioned diagnosis and treatment plan, if the patient's condition progresses to critical stage, the hospital may adopt respiratory support and use the "protective pulmonary ventilation strategy" to reduce ventilator-related lung injury.
陈丹的丈夫在金银潭医院时，医院为他做了采血、肺部CT等一系列的检查。
Chen Dan's husband in the gold and silver pool hospital, the hospital for him to do a series of blood collection, lung CT and other tests.
陈丹说，丈夫烧退了、人舒服了，视频时看着他一天比一天好起来，“这时候心才慢慢放下来，感觉挺高兴的”。
Chen Dan said his husband had burned out and was comfortable, watching him get better and better every day. "It was a good time for me to relax."
“我们确实积累了一定的经验；治疗的措施跟支持疗法，跟以前比有很大的进步。
"We do have a certain amount of experience; treatment and support therapy are much better than they used to be.
”1月20日晚，国家卫健委高级别专家组组长、中国工程院院士钟南山接受央视采访时说。
Zhong Nan Shan, a member of the Chinese Academy of Engineering and head of a high-level expert group, told CCTV on the evening of January 20.
钟南山介绍，现在他们在做一些实验观察，对冠状病毒有一些研究；正在进行动物实验，同时也对一些候选的中药进行观察研究。
Now they are doing some experimental observations, some studies on the coronavirus, animal experiments, and some candidate Chinese medicines, Zhong said.
病情研究不能靠碰运气，科学研究要跟上，这也是现在非常重要的一步措施。
It is not a matter of chance. Scientific research has to keep pace. It is now a very important step.
1月22日，国家卫生健康委员会副主任李斌在国新办的防控新闻发布会上说，“充分发挥专家力量，尽快查明传染来源、传播途径，有针对性地做好抗病毒药物的研发和筛选。
"Experts should be brought into full play to find out the source of infection and the way to spread it as soon as possible, and develop and screen anti-viral drugs in a targeted way," Li Bin, deputy director of the National Health Council, said at a news conference on prevention and control launched by the State Council
”此前，中部地区某县医院曾接到上级卫生管理部门通知，要求储备充足的抗病毒药物。
Earlier, a county hospital in the central region had been told by higher health authorities to stock up on antiviral drugs.
一名该县医院医生对《财经》记者说，“接到的通知是，没有对这类新型冠状病毒的特效药，要求每个医院储备常用抗病毒药物”，如奥司他韦、阿昔洛韦等抗病毒药物。
"We have been informed that there is no specific drug for this new coronavirus and that every hospital is required to stock up on commonly used antiviral drugs," such as oseltamivir and acyclovir, a doctor at the county hospital told Caijing
九州通相关负责人向《财经》记者介绍，1月20日，该公司总代理的一款奥司他韦的单日出货量暴涨至近3000万元，21日单日销售突破1个亿（含少量医院渠道销量）。
The head of Kyushu Tong told Caijing that on Jan. 20, one-day shipments of an oseltamivir, the company's general agent, soared to nearly 30 million yuan, with sales surpassing 100 million yuan (including a small number of hospital sales) a day on January 21.
为了保障湖北武汉等病例较为密集区域用药需求，现正在从江西、湖南长沙等地向武汉调货。
In order to ensure the case of Wuhan, Hubei more intensive regional drug demand, is now from Jiangxi, Hunan Changsha and other places to transfer goods to Wuhan.
2020年1月中旬陈丹的丈夫出院回家。
Chen Dan's husband was discharged from hospital in mid-January 2020.
陈丹说，丈夫出院至今已经一周左右，没有再出现发烧等症状，也没有发生任何不适，她认为治疗是有效的。
Chen said about a week after her husband was discharged from the hospital, he had no symptoms such as fever and did not suffer any discomfort.
至于这次病毒感染两次住院治疗的费用，陈丹说，目前是医保报销一部分。
As for the cost of two hospital admissions for the virus, Chen said it is now part of the Medicare reimbursement.
1月21日，国家医保局的微信公众号消息，针对此次疫情特点，医保局决定对确诊为“新型冠状病毒感染肺炎”等患者采取特殊报销政策，将国家卫生健康委《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案》覆盖的药品和医疗服务项目，全部临时纳入医保基金支付范围。
On January 21, the National Health Insurance Bureau (NHS) issued a micro-letter to the public announcing the decision to adopt a special reimbursement policy for patients diagnosed with coronavirus pneumonia and to temporarily include all the drugs and medical service items covered by the NCHC's pneumonia diagnosis and treatment programme.
武汉市卫健委官方微博信息称，截至1月19日24时，武汉市已治愈出院25例新型冠状病毒患者。
As of 2400 hours on January 19, Wuhan had cured 25 patients with the new coronavirus, according to the official Weibo message of Wuhan Health Commission.
陈丹的丈夫正式其中一位幸运者。
Chen Dan's husband is officially one of the lucky ones.
由于目前人类对该疾病的认识不够深入，即便已经痊愈，人们依然在密切关注该病毒的病例情况和诊疗方式。
Because the current understanding of the disease is not deep enough, even after the recovery, people are still closely watching the case of the virus and the mode of diagnosis and treatment.
以往的SARS治疗中，一些患者留下了后遗症，例如骨头坏死、肺部纤维化等，一些专家认为抢救中使用的激素类药物是导致骨头坏死的主要原因。
In past SARS treatments, some patients left sequelae, such as bone necrosis and pulmonary fibrosis. Some experts believe that the main cause of osteonecrosis is the hormone used in rescue.
2004年3月，原北京市卫生局曾成立专家组，对SARS后遗症患者开始进行系统治疗。
In March 2004, the former Beijing Municipal Health Bureau set up a group of experts to start systematic treatment of people suffering from the after-effects of SARS.
“有些问题我们也在关注，比如说这个病能不能好彻底？”陈丹说，她还关心这个病究竟何时能有特效药。
"There are some issues that we are concerned about, such as whether the disease can be completely cured," Chen said, adding that she was also concerned about when the disease would have specific effects.
（陈丹为化名）【声明】本文为《财经》与腾讯新闻独家合作内容，谢绝转载推荐阅读一人感染14名医务人员，武汉新型病毒正在增强，需警惕超级传播者“武汉肺炎”确诊病例突增，中国紧急布设三道防线迎大考责编| 黄端duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
The new Wuhan virus is on the rise. Be on guard against a sudden increase in confirmed cases of Wuhan Pneumonia, the super-communicator. China has laid three lines of defense to meet RCCE's censure; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article by Caijing magazine and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“我丈夫感染了新型冠状病毒，治愈了”。
"My husband is infected with the new coronavirus and is cured."
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "“我丈夫感染了新型冠状病毒，治愈了”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; "My husband was infected with the new coronavirus and cured" & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "这是较早一批感染者之一，发病住院时还没有“新型冠状病毒”的称谓。
var msg _ desc = & quot; It was one of the earlier infections, and the coronavirus didn't appear at the time of admission.
经历17天隔离治疗，如今痊愈回家";。
After 17 days of isolation, he has recovered and has returned home.
title: '一人感染14名医务人员，武汉新型病毒正在增强，需警惕超级传播者',。
At least one person infected with 14 medical personnel. Wuhan's new strain of the virus is strengthening. Be wary of AT & amp; apos; s service.
subject_name: '财经杂志',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
title: '“武汉肺炎”确诊病例突增，中国紧急布设三道防线迎大考',。
At & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '财经杂志',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
