举办前景不明，东京奥运会可能要赔大了。
The prospect of hosting the Games is uncertain, and the Games may be costly.
王晓枫。
Wang Xiaofeng.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
因为新冠疫情带来的不确定性，让企业对于营销支出和赞助奥运持观望态度。
Uncertainty over the new crown has left companies on the sidelines about marketing spending and sponsorship of the Olympics.
这种不确定性已经从奥运经济主动脉向外扩散，今年东京奥运会可能因此承受罕见的商业压力文 |《财经》记者 王晓枫 编辑 | 郝洲日本东京正全力为举办今年的夏季奥运会做准备，相关花费已突破百亿美元，全球知名企业和媒体也投入天价资金争取赞助权和转播权。
The uncertainty has spread out of the aorta of the Olympic economy, and this year's Tokyo Olympics may be under unusual commercial pressure. Japan's Tokyo city is gearing up for this year's Summer Olympics, spending more than $10 billion, while world-renowned companies and media are pouring money into sponsorship and broadcasting rights.
各国运动员更是为了备战奥运训练数年，现在距离他们冲上运动生涯的巅峰只剩几个月。
Athletes from around the world have been preparing for years of Olympic training and are only a few months away from the pinnacle of their athletic careers.
然而，近期新冠肺炎疫情在全球爆发，日本境内疫情形势严峻，让外界愈发担心这次夏季奥运会可能无法如期举行。
However, the recent global outbreak of pneumonia and the severity of the situation in Japan have heightened concerns that the summer games may not be held as scheduled.
即使能勉强举行，其商业运营前景也堪忧，可能亏损的阴影越来越大。
Even if held reluctantly, the outlook for its business operations is grim, with the prospect of losses looming larger.
截至3月3日，全球73个国家出现新冠病毒确诊病例，确诊病例总数突破9万。
As at 3 March, 73 countries worldwide had confirmed cases of the new crown virus, bringing the total number of confirmed cases to over 90,000.
在中国疫情逐渐缓和的同时，日本、韩国、伊朗和意大利的确诊病例却持续上升，一些国家死亡案例也在上升。
While China's epidemic is easing, confirmed cases continue to rise in Japan, South Korea, Iran, and Italy, and deaths are on the rise in some countries.
截至3月4日9时，日本累计确诊新冠肺炎病例1000例，因新冠肺炎死亡累计12人。
As of 0900 hours March 4, the cumulative number of confirmed cases of New Crown Pneumonia in Japan is 1000, resulting in 12 deaths due to New Crown Pneumonia.
其中在日本国内的日本人和中国游客等累计确诊280例，“钻石公主”号邮轮累计确诊706例，从武汉乘坐包机返回者累计确诊14例。
Among them, 280 cases were diagnosed by Japanese and Chinese tourists in Japan, 706 by Princess Diamond and 14 by air charter in Wuhan.
为了打消外界疑虑，3月3日，国际奥委会执委会再次发表声明，表达对2020年东京奥运会如期举行的充分承诺。
To reassure the outside world, on March 3, the IOC Executive Committee issued another statement expressing its full commitment to the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games as scheduled.
这一承诺是建立在听取世界卫生组织意见的基础上做出的。
This commitment is based on consultations with the World Health Organization.
声明说，一支针对疫情的联合特遣队在今年2月中旬就已成立，成员来自国际奥委会、东京奥组委、日本和东京政府以及世卫组织。
The statement said a joint task force was formed in mid-February with members from the International Olympic Committee, the Tokyo and Japanese governments and WHO.
国际奥委会的声明是东京奥运会利好消息，自从钻石公主号加剧日本疫情和随后全球疫情升级，东京奥组委、东京都政府和日本政府面临巨大压力，日方高层多次出面强调奥运会将如期举行，仍不能打消外界疑虑。
The IOC's statement is good news for the Tokyo Olympic Games. Since Princess Diamond aggravated the Japanese epidemic and then escalated the global epidemic, the Tokyo Organizing Committee, the Tokyo Metropolitan Government and the Japanese government have come under tremendous pressure and senior Japanese officials have repeatedly stressed that the Games will be held on schedule.
推迟或取消，最终权力在奥委会国际奥委会高级成员迪克·庞德（Dick Pound）曾对媒体表示，如果疫情在未来三个月内得不到控制，可能会取消或推迟奥运会。
Postponement or cancellation, and ultimately power in the IOC's senior IOC member Dick Pound, has told the press that if the outbreak is not contained within the next three months, it could cancel or delay the Games.
这一表态一石激起千层浪。
The announcement went up in flames.
对于东京奥运会何去何从，日本奥运大臣桥本圣子在3月3日的参院预算委员会会议上透露，根据《举办城市合同》，可以在2020年内进行延期。
Japan's Olympic minister, Seiko Hashimoto, revealed at a meeting of the Senate Budget Committee on March 3 that the city contract could be extended in 2020.
虽然桥本圣子强调仍将全力推进如期召开，她的话被解读为暗示奥运会可能会推迟至年底。
While Naoko Hashimoto stressed that she would press ahead with the schedule, her comments were interpreted as implying that the Games might be postponed until the end of the year.
对于这种可能性，北京关键之道体育咨询公司CEO 张庆对《财经》记者分析说，“完全取消一届奥运会不太可能，因为无论是运动员、主办方还是企业都付出巨大努力和成本，桥本圣子说法是个大家都能接受的可能性方案。
Zhang Qing, CEO of Beijing-based Key Ways Sports Consulting, told Caijing about the possibility: "It is unlikely that one Olympics will be completely canceled because, given the enormous effort and cost involved, whether by athletes, organizers or companies, the Hashimoto statement is an acceptable possibility.
张庆公司的客户中有中国奥委会赞助商，他们将东京奥运会视为非常重要营销机会。
Among Zhang's customers are sponsors of the Chinese Olympic Committee, who see the Games as a very important marketing opportunity.
按照惯例，七月召开奥运会，现在已经要开始营销了，但如今则一切都没有动静，因为新冠疫情带来的不确定性让企业对于营销和赞助奥运抱持观望犹疑态度。
It is customary to hold the Olympics in July, and now marketing is about to begin, but nothing is happening now, because the uncertainty surrounding the new crown has left companies hesitant to wait and see about marketing and sponsoring the Games.
这种不确定性已经从奥运经济主动脉扩散到每个毛细血管。
This uncertainty has spread from the aorta of the Olympic economy to every capillary.
奥运会不仅是全球体育盛事，也是高度市场化的全球性经济行为，牵涉各方利益，因此取消绝非轻而易举能做出的决定。
The Olympic Games are not only a global sporting event, but also a highly market-based global economic event that involves the interests of all parties, so cancelling it is not an easy decision.
疫情带来的不确定性已经让资本市场捏了一把汗，特别是保险业，如果东京奥运会取消，全球保险公司将面临巨额账单，承保成本将高达数十亿美元。
The uncertainty created by the epidemic has left capital markets, particularly the insurance industry, with global insurers facing huge bills and billions of dollars in underwriting costs if the Tokyo Olympics are cancelled.
据杰富瑞集团（Jefferies）分析师估算，2020年奥运会的保险成本为20亿美元，其中包括电视转播权和赞助，另外还有6亿美元的招待费用。
Analysts at Jefferies estimate the cost of insurance for the 2020 Games at $2 billion, including television rights and sponsorship, plus $600 million for hospitality.
正因如此，在历史上，除了战争原因，奥运会未因其他原因被取消过。
That is why, historically, the Games have not been canceled for any reason other than war.
如果东京在今年7月如期举办奥运会，它将是亚洲历史上第一个举办过两次夏季奥运会的城市。
If Tokyo hosts the Games as scheduled in July, it will be the first city in Asian history to host two Summer Games.
东京曾在1964年第一次举办奥运会。
Tokyo hosted the first Olympic Games in 1964.
推迟或取消奥运会的最终权力归国际奥委会所有。
The final authority to postpone or cancel the Games rests with the IOC.
桥本圣子认为，国际奥委会将在5月底前研判东京奥运是否如期举办。
Naoko Hashimoto believes the IOC will judge whether the Tokyo Olympics will be held as scheduled by the end of May.
根据国际奥委会与东京都政府签署的《举办城市合同》规定，有理由相信奥运会参赛者安全将严重受到威胁时，国际奥委会有权单独终止合同。
Under the terms of the Host City Contract signed between the IOC and the Tokyo Metropolitan Government, the IOC has the right to terminate the contract alone if there are grounds to believe that the safety of Olympic competitors will be seriously threatened.
这一条款让一些日方人士担忧，国际奥委会可能会在某种情况下将举办城市的意向置之脑后，单方面做出决定。
The clause has raised concerns among some Japanese that the IOC might, in some cases, ignore the idea of hosting a city and make a unilateral decision.
他们认为，今后可能很大程度上取决于世卫组织就奥运会给出怎样的看法。
They believe that much will depend on how WHO views the Games.
世卫组织高级专家马里恩·库普曼斯（Marion Koopmans）曾对《财经》记者指出，奥运会能否如期举行取决于新冠病毒是否通过中国以及其他国家和地区采取的防控措施得到控制。
Marion Koopmans, a senior WHO expert, told Caijing that whether the Olympics can be held as scheduled depends on whether the new crown virus is controlled through control measures in China and other countries and regions.
可能会有天价损失因非战争原因取消奥运会前所未有，在高度经济全球化今天，带来的损失也会牵一动百。
There may be sky-high price losses due to the cancellation of the Olympic Games for non-war reasons, in today's high economic globalization, the loss will also be a 100%.
“若取消奥运会，经济损失是多层面的，国际奥委会本来可以获得的媒体转播权费和TOP赞助商收入损失，还有赔偿。
"If the Olympics were cancelled, the economic losses would be multi-layered, the IOC would have lost media rights and TOP sponsors' revenue, as well as compensation.
赞助商和媒体先期投入收不回来，预期收入得不到。
Sponsors and the media do not get paid upfront and expected revenue is not forthcoming.
组委会收入得不到，城市场馆设施投入、基础设施投入和城市运行投入都收不回来，全部是损失。
Committee income is not available, urban venues and facilities inputs, infrastructure inputs and urban operation inputs can not be collected, all is a loss.
东京奥组委预期投入56亿美元，场馆设施投入70亿美元，都算损失。
Tokyo is expected to spend $5.6 billion on stadiums and $7 billion on stadiums and facilities, all at a loss.
” 奥林匹克问题专家、温州大学教授易剑东对《财经》记者表示。
Yi Jiandong, an Olympic expert and professor at Wenzhou University, told Caijing.
虽然国际奥委会可以通过《奥林匹克宪章》等文本规避对东道主的赔偿责任，但易剑东解释说，国际奥委会获得的媒体转播权收入和TOP赞助商收入都将失去，可能还有一定毁约责任。
Although the IOC can circumvent its host's liability by adopting texts such as the Olympic Charter, Mr. Yi explained that IOC would lose both media rights revenue and TOP sponsor revenue and could be liable for some damage.
这对国际奥委会来说影响巨大，因为他们的主要收入来源就是媒体转播权和TOP赞助收益，若失去这两项，承诺分配给单项组织和各国/地区奥委会的费用都将不存在。
This has a huge impact on the IOC, as its main sources of revenue are media rights and TOP sponsorship revenues, without which the costs promised to individual organizations and national / regional Olympic committees would not exist.
为了应对风险，国际奥委会设立储备金作为风险管理。
In response to risk, IOC established reserves as risk management.
国际奥委会还设立一笔来自电视转播收入的6.47亿美元的资产，用于在需要时返还合同款。
The IOC also set up an asset of $647 million from televised revenue to pay back the contract if needed.
另有2.61亿美元用于弥补大型赞助项目的亏损，以及4.47亿美元用于分发给各国/地区的奥运机构。
An additional $261 million was used to cover losses on large sponsorship projects and $447 million for distribution to Olympic bodies in various countries / regions.
然而，避险小金库也无法弥补取消一届奥运会带来的经济损失，特别是TOP赞助和电视转播权这两笔账是国际奥委会不得不算的。
However, the coffers will not be able to recoup the economic damage caused by the cancellation of an Olympic Games, especially TOP sponsorship and television rights, which the IOC has had to calculate.
据国际奥委会官网2013年-2016年财报显示，该机构73%收入来自出售转播权，18%来自TOP赞助商，5%来自其他收入，4%来自其他合同权利售卖。
According to the IOC's 2013-2016 financial report, 73% of the organization's revenue comes from selling rights, 18% from TOP sponsors, 5% from other revenue and 4% from other contract rights sales.
90%收入用于办奥运会和体育发展，金额高达50亿美元。
Ninety percent of the revenue goes to the Olympics and sports development, amounting to $5 billion.
除了办奥运，这笔钱还会给到各国/地区和国际体育主管机构，资助全球运动员。
In addition to the Olympic Games, the money will go to national / regional and international sports authorities to fund athletes around the world.
例如，里约奥运会时，国际奥委会向各个国际体育机构提供了5.4亿美元，另有5.4亿美元给了各国/地区奥委会。
For example, at the Rio Games, the IOC provided $540 million to international sports bodies and another $540 million to national Olympic committees.
本届奥运会无论是电视转播权和赞助费用都水涨船高。
Both television rights and sponsorship costs have soared.
著名体育频道Eurosport母公司Discovery Communications支付13亿欧元（约合14亿美元）在欧洲范围内转播2018年至2024年的奥运会。
Discovery Communications, the parent company of Europort, paid 1.3 billion euros ($1.4 billion) to broadcast the 2018-2024 Games in Europe.
美国NBC环球母公司Comcast支付43.8亿美元购买2014年至2020年四届奥运会的美国媒体转播权。
Comcast, NBC Universal's parent company, paid $4.38 billion to buy U.S. media rights for four Olympics from 2014 to 2020.
目前，国际奥委会有阿里巴巴在内的14家TOP赞助商，阿里巴巴与国际奥委合同期限直至2028年，有媒体估计，阿里巴巴的赞助总金额将不低于8亿美元。
The IOC currently has 14 TOP sponsors, including Alibaba, which has a contract with the IOC until 2028, and media estimates put Alibaba's total sponsorship at no less than $800 million.
据悉，三星与国际奥委会的合同也价值数亿美元。
Samsung's contract with the IOC is also believed to be worth hundreds of millions of dollars.
如果取消奥运会，连同电视转播权和TOP赞助将注定打水漂，国际奥委会收入也会大打折扣。
Cancellation of the Olympics, along with television rights and TOP sponsorship, would be doomed to failure, and the IOC's revenues would be severely compromised.
取消奥运会还会直接影响东京奥组委收入，据悉东京奥运会国内赞助金额创30亿美元历史新高，国际奥委会数据显示，这笔超过30亿美元的国内赞助费是近年来历届奥运会的三倍。
The cancellation will also have a direct impact on Tokyo's revenue, which is believed to have hit a record $3 billion in domestic sponsorship, which, according to the International Olympic Committee, is three times higher than at any Olympics in recent years.
奥运会的国内赞助收入纪录来自2012年伦敦奥运会，伦敦从国内赞助商那里筹集到约11亿美元的资金。
The Olympic record for domestic sponsorship revenue comes from the London 2012 Games, which raised about $1.1 billion from domestic sponsors.
东京奥运会国内赞助分为三个等级，目前已经签署15家顶级黄金合作伙伴、32家官方合作伙伴和18家官方供应商，总计65家赞助商。
There are three levels of domestic sponsorship for the Tokyo Olympics, with 15 top gold partners, 32 official partners and 18 official suppliers, a total of 65 sponsors.
其中，顶级黄金合作伙伴需要支付9位数金额，即过亿美元。
Top-tier gold partners have to pay nine-figure amounts, or more than $100 million.
这62家国内赞助商中，还不包括普利司通、松下和丰田等三家与国际奥委会签署全球顶级合作伙伴协议的日本企业，他们签署的合同价值分别达到数亿美元。
The 62 domestic sponsors, excluding Puliton, Matsushita and Toyota, which have signed global top-level partnership agreements with the IOC, are worth hundreds of millions of dollars each.
不仅赞助创新高，东京奥运会预算也比最初设想超支数倍。
Not only did the sponsorship record high, the Tokyo Olympics budget was several times larger than originally envisaged.
去年12月，东京奥运会组织方曾透露，预计耗资约1.35万亿日元（约合123.5亿美元），这一数字还不包括将马拉松和竞走项目从东京迁至札幌所需的30亿日元。
In December, organizers of the Tokyo Games said the estimated cost would be about Y1.35 trillion ($12.35 billion), not including the Y3 billion needed to move marathon and race events from Tokyo to Sapporo.
东京奥运会预算由组委会和地方及国家政府分担，国际奥委会捐款超过8亿美元。
The Tokyo Olympics budget is shared between the IOC and local and national governments, with the IOC contributing more than $800 million.
成本无论如何都会增加疫情带来的不确定性让外界普遍担忧东京奥运会成本恐进一步增加，如此高企的预算，别说是取消，即便是延期都会给东京奥组委带来巨大压力。
The uncertainty that costs will add to the epidemic in any case has led to widespread concern that the cost of the Games may rise even further, and that even such a high budget, let alone its cancellation, would put a huge strain on the organization.
“如果延期，本次奥运会承办成本会增加，不仅有人力运营成本，还要增加防疫成本。
"If postponed, the cost of hosting the Games will increase, not only in terms of manpower and running costs, but also in terms of epidemic prevention costs.
”张庆说。
"said Zhang.
不仅如此，疫情还可能会对东京奥运会规模带来影响，因为即便如期举行，也可能要控制到场观众数量以及筹备阶段营销行为规模，这些都是经济损失。
What's more, the outbreak could have an impact on the scale of the Tokyo Olympics, because even if it does, controlling attendance and the scale of marketing in the run-up to the Games could be a financial loss.
“控制观众数量对东京奥运会的影响不仅是门票收入减少，还会造成赞助商收入减少，城市运行效率低下，但总体上影响不会太大。
"Controlling audience numbers will have an impact not only on ticket sales, but also on sponsors' revenues and the city's inefficiency, but not on the whole.
”易剑东说。
"said Yi Jiandong.
甚至有分析人士担忧东京奥运会是否有重蹈蒙特利尔奥运会亏损覆辙，对于这种可能性，易剑东认为不太可能重演，因为东京奥运会是否亏损，不能仅计算赛事经济账（组委会损失不会太大，因为门票收入本就占比不大），还要计算场馆、基础设施在赛后的利用效率，包括城市运行今后的运作模式是否增进效率。
Even analysts worry about the possibility of a repeat of the losses at the Games in Montreal, a possibility that Yi believes is unlikely to be repeated, because Tokyo's losses cannot be measured solely in economic terms (the organizing committee won't lose much because tickets already make up a small percentage), and how efficiently venues and infrastructure are used, including future urban operations.
1976年的蒙特利尔奥运会亏损24亿美元，令市政府多年来债台高筑，总共10亿美元的债务在30年后的2006年11月才还清，是现代奥运会历史上亏损最严重的一次，这也让很多城市一度不敢申办奥运，直至1984年洛杉矶奥运出现财政盈余为止。
The 1976 Montreal Olympics lost $2.4 billion, leaving the city heavily indebted for years, with a total debt of $1 billion repaid only in November 2006, 30 years later, the worst loss in modern Olympic history, and deterring many cities from bidding until the 1984 Los Angeles Olympics had a fiscal surplus.
亏损的主要原因是兴建各项体育馆开支庞大以及主场馆建造过程困难重重（工程要到奥运闭幕后十多年后才完工），导致蒙特利尔奥运会耗资高达58亿美元。
The main reason for the losses was the huge cost of building stadiums and the difficulty of constructing the main stadium, which would not be completed until more than a decade after the end of the Games, costing the Montreal Games $5.8 billion.
从历史经验看，亏损的奥运会一定程度上是因为奥运会后场馆无法得到很好利用，因为修建体育馆成本高昂，却产生不了什么经济效益，基本上不能吸引投资，而要用公共资金埋单，例如，2004年奥运会衰败的场馆成为希腊经济危机的暗喻，而洛杉矶奥运会之所以成功是因为策划者避免修建新体育馆。
Historically, the loss was due in part to the poor use of post-Olympic stadiums, which were expensive but not cost-effective, and largely unattractive to investment. For example, the decaying venues of the 2004 Olympic Games were a metaphor for Greece's economic crisis, whereas the Los Angeles Olympics were successful because planners avoided building new stadiums.
东京奥运会共将启用43个场馆，其中包括8个新建永久性场馆，据悉新国立竞技场造价接近1600亿日元（约合15亿美元），东京都政府已经将赛会后场馆可持续利用提上议程，但仍有民众质疑新建的国立体育馆大而无用。
Tokyo will open 43 stadiums, including eight new permanent stadiums. The new stadium is understood to cost nearly 160 billion yen ($1.5 billion), and the government has put the sustainable use of post-Games venues on the agenda, but questions remain about the usefulness of the new stadium.
如何处理好这个问题将是东京奥运会能否避免亏损的关键之一。
How to deal with this problem will be one of the keys to avoiding losses at the Tokyo Olympics.
除了场馆，张庆认为，奥运会是否盈利要看怎么界定，虽然花费体量巨大，但奥运会给城市和国家带来的品牌收益也是巨大的，并且提升城市公共设施，带动GDP增长，增加就业岗位，这些都是广义上的收益。
Apart from stadiums, Zhang believes that whether the Olympics will be profitable depends on how it is defined. Although the cost is huge, the brand benefits for cities and countries are huge, and the benefits in the broad sense of the word are in upgrading urban public facilities, boosting GDP growth and creating jobs.
目前距离奥运会已有不到150天，运动员们焦急备战的同时，赞助商们也屏息以待，疫情的发展将牵动各方关注。
With less than 150 days to go before the Games, athletes are bracing themselves for the games and sponsors are holding their breath as the epidemic progresses.
“鉴于国际奥委会表态，奥运会大概率是举办的，企业还是应该早做准备，奥运资源稀缺，四年一次还是应该把握。
"In the light of the IOC's position that the high probability of the Olympics will be held, companies should prepare well in advance," he said.
”张庆认为。
Zhang Qing thinks.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click Here for more information about the epidemic:: Archives & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and may not be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
举办前景不明，东京奥运会可能要赔大了。
The prospect of hosting the Games is uncertain, and the Games may be costly.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "举办前景不明，东京奥运会可能要赔大了";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "因为新冠疫情带来的不确定性，让企业对于营销支出和赞助奥运持观望态度。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; about marketing spending and sponsorship.
这种不确定性已经从奥运经济主动脉向外扩散";。
That uncertainty has spread from the Olympic aorta to AT & quot;.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
