蜜蜂也饿，养蜂人挺住啊！。
Bees are hungry too. Beekeepers stay up.
张洁琼。
Jet Chang.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
一年四季，由南至北，不停追逐花期，带蜜蜂转场到新的蜜源地，这是我国800万养蜂人的生存方式。
Throughout the year, from south to north, constantly chasing the flowering period, taking bees to the new honey source, this is the way of survival of China's 8 million beekeepers.
突如其来的疫情中断了这一链环，也波及到农作物的蜜蜂授粉。
The sudden outbreak disrupted the chain and pollinated bees, which also affected crops.
实习记者 | 张洁琼中断的追花转场刘晓梅最近每天都在盼望着转场。
Liu Xiaomei, whose courtship was interrupted by Ms Zhang, has been looking forward to a turnaround every day recently.
准备时，她要早早起来开始收帐篷，那是她这些年来唯一的住所，她要把附在巢箱上的蜜蜂塞进去，封住蜂箱盖，她要和丈夫一起将五百个箱子挨个搬上9米6的高栏货车。
In preparation, she would get up early and start collecting the tent, her only home for all these years. She would tuck in the bees attached to the nest box and seal the beehive lid.
做这些需要花去她一周的时间。
It took her a week to do this.
最后，她会在天气转凉时的一个夜晚，坐上卡车，和她的蜜蜂们一起离开云南，去追赶下一个花期。
Eventually, she would ride in a truck one cool night and leave Yunnan with her bees to catch the next bloom.
云南的冬天暖和，每年12月底，刘晓梅都会离开湖北荆门老家，将蜂箱运到云南进行春繁。
Yunnan winters are warm, and at the end of December, Liu Xiaomei leaves her hometown of Jingmen in Hubei Province and delivers beehives to Yunnan for spring propagation.
按照原计划，2月10日左右，她本该从云南转至四川，那里油菜花盛放，黄灿灿的花朵上尽是好蜜。
She was supposed to be transferred from Yunnan to Sichuan around February 10, where rapeseed blossoms were plentiful and the yellow flowers were covered with honey.
之后，回到湖北，采柑橘。
After that, return to Hubei, pick citrus.
4月中旬，她将继续北上到陕甘地区采洋槐，洋槐花已经结成了串，又白又嫩，蜜蜂采来蜜后，便能做成洋槐蜜，那是市场上最受欢迎的一种蜜。
In mid-April, she will continue her journey northward to the Shaanxi region to pick locust. Locust flowers are already strung together, white and tender, and when honey is picked by bees, they can make locust honey, the most popular honey in the market.
像刘晓梅这样的养蜂法叫做转地养蜂，蜂农要根据花期，由南至北转移到蜜源多的地区。
The beekeeping method such as Liu Xiaomei is called transplanting bee-keeping. Honeykeepers move from south to north to the honey-rich areas according to the flowering period.
作为世界第一养蜂大国，我国蜜蜂群数已经超过900万群，其中较大的养殖场为了提高采蜜量，均选择转地养殖。
As the largest bee-keeping country in the world, the number of bees in China has exceeded 9 million.
数据显示，我国蜂农转场次数大多超过5次，转场范围达到3000公里以上。
The data show that the frequency of beekeeping conversion in China is more than 5 times, and the range of conversion reaches more than 3000 km.
转场的蜂农养殖的大多为“意大利蜂”，拥有的蜂箱从一百箱至五百箱不等，规模大，专业化程度高，经营成本也高。
Most of the converted beekeepers are Italian bees, with hives ranging from 100 to 500 boxes, large, highly specialized and costly to run.
“我养蜂20多年，没遇过大灾，朋友们都说我运气好，但这是我第一次感到无助了。
"I had not had a major disaster for more than 20 years and my friends said I was lucky, but it was the first time I felt helpless.
”刘晓梅告诉本刊。
Liu Xiaomei told the print.
2月14日，刘晓梅听一位同是湖北籍的养蜂人说，他在海南出不来，无法前往下一个花源地。
On February 14, Liu Xiaomei listened to a beekeeper who was also of Hubei nationality. He said he could not get out of Hainan and could not go to the next flower source.
她这才意识到，自家的五百箱蜜蜂可能出不了云南了。
Then she realized that her five hundred cases of bees might not be able to get out of Yunnan.
如今，四川的油菜花期已经开始十天，她仍无法按计划启程，疫期的交通管制使得她被迫留在了云南楚雄。
Now, 10 days into her canola life, Sichuan is still unable to travel as planned, and traffic control during the epidemic has forced her to stay in Chuxiong, Yunnan.
在楚雄，像刘晓梅一样的外地养蜂人就有十几户，五湖四海的养蜂人被困。
In Chuxiong, like Liu Xiaomei, there are dozens of beekeepers from all over the world.
养蜂这些年，刘晓梅四处奔走，结识了不少养蜂人，一到追花转场时，大家常常会互相照顾。
Bee-keeping over the years, Liu Xiaomei around, known many beekeepers, when the time comes to chase flowers, we often take care of each other.
刘晓梅发消息给四川青白江区养蜂的朋友：“如果我湖北身份证不能去，我就把蜂子运过去，你把蜂场当成你的，你去给我搞，我们等封城过了再过去。
Liu Xiaomei sent a message to a friend of a bee-keeper in Qingbaijiang District of Sichuan: "If I can't go to Hubei ID card, I'll send the bee, you take the beehive as yours, you get it for me, and we'll wait for the city to pass.
”朋友一口答应了。
"The friend said yes.
没过两天，政策更严了，当地一听说是她是湖北蜂农就怎么都不放行，朋友也无能为力。
Not two days later, the policy is more strict, the local heard that she is Hubei bee farmers on how not to let go, friends can do nothing.
这下刘晓梅急了，不能转场，就意味着蜜蜂采不到蜜，没有收成，蜜蜂也只能靠白糖人工饲养，冬天囤的五吨白糖快要见底了，接下来五百箱蜜蜂一周要消耗1吨白糖，每多停留一周，仅饲料费就要花去她6000元。
For the next five hundred tons of honey, the next five hundred cases of which consume a ton of sugar a week, will cost her 6,000 yuan for each additional week spent on feed.
刘晓梅翻出一份文件：2月15日，农业农村部办公厅、国家发展改革委办公厅、交通运输部办公厅三部委就颁发了文件，将转场蜜蜂列入生活必需品应急保障范畴，全力支持和解决蜜蜂转场问题。
Liu Xiaomei turned over a document: On February 15, the General Office of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, the Office of the National Development and Reform Commission and the General Office of the Ministry of Transport and Communications issued documents to include bees in the emergency supply of basic necessities in order to fully support and solve the problem of bee conversion.
《通知》称，除必要的对司机快速体温检测外，确保“三不一优先”（不停车、不检查、不收费、优先通行），便捷快速通行。
The notice said that in addition to the necessary rapid temperature testing drivers, to ensure that "three different priority" (no parking, no inspection, no charge, priority of passage), convenient and fast.
她本以为，文件一发，转场就不用愁了，但没想到具体实施时，困难仍然一层接着一层。
She had thought that once a document, the field did not worry about, but did not expect to be practical implementation, the difficulties still layer after layer.
图 | 视觉中国“3月10号四川的花期就结束了。
"The flowering period in Sichuan province on March 10 is over," says AT & # 160; & # 45; China.
”但刘晓梅仍未放弃希望。
But Liu Xiaomei has not given up hope.
她掐着日子计算着，只要能找到回湖北荆门的车，4月家里有柑橘，6月有荆条，9月有楠木，虽然都是小蜜源，但维持生计总是可以的。
She wondered if she could find a bus back to Jingmen, Hubei Province. There were oranges in April, thorns in June and nanmu in September.
抑或是回去后拼命繁蜂，“湖北蜂箱厂多，到时候卖蜂子，一样可创效益。
Or back after the desperate busy bee, "Hubei beehive factory, when the time to sell bees, can create benefits.
”看上去，一年有四五个花期可追，刘晓梅目前只错过了一个，但事实上，错过一次花期的影响是连锁的，“即便蜂农去赶下一个花期，但蜜蜂的状态和正常状况下已经不一样了，它现在是属于饥饿状态。
Liu Xiaomei seems to have missed only one flower four or five times a year, but in fact the effect of missing a florescence is interlocking. "Even if the bee goes to catch the next florescence, the bee is no longer in the same state as it would normally be.
就跟婴儿时期它该喝奶，你不给它喝奶，婴儿的体质能好吗？”国家蜂产业技术体系首席科学家吴杰告诉本刊。
Just like the baby should drink milk, you do not give it milk, baby physique can be good? "National bee industry technology system chief scientist Wu Jie told this print.
游牧式生存比起刘晓梅，王桂玲稍微幸运一些，2月15日文件一下发，来自黑龙江的她便能即刻启程，从云南曲靖转场去四川绵阳。
Nomadic survival than Liu Xiaomei, Wang Guiling a little lucky, February 15 documents issued, from Heilongjiang she can immediately start from Qujing, Yunnan Province to Mianyang.
每次转场搬家都是最累的事情，一个蜂箱连蜂加蜜有七八十斤重，她和丈夫两个人要在两个多小时将三百个蜂箱装进货车里。
Each shift was the most exhausting thing, a hive of bees and honey weighed 78 or 10 pounds, and she and her husband had to pack 300 beehives into the wagon for more than two hours.
转场也给她和丈夫带来了巨大开销，王桂玲算了算，高速费、司机费用和饲料费，去年一年她和丈夫转场的花销接近七万。
The switch also cost her and her husband dearly, with Wang calculating that the high-speed fare, driver's fees and fodder fees would have cost her and her husband close to 70, 000 a year ago.
但倘若不付出如此大的成本四处转场，蜂农生存会更加艰难。
But it would be harder for beekeepers to survive if they didn't have to spend so much money to get around.
2016年，黑龙江气候不好，蜜源减少，王桂玲和丈夫赔了10万，连越冬喂蜜蜂的白糖都买不起了，她管亲戚借了钱，买了白糖，让蜜蜂们撑过了一个冬天。
In 2016, Heilongjiang bad climate, reduced honey sources, Wang Guiling and her husband lost 100,000, even the winter feeding bees can not afford sugar, she relatives borrowed money, bought sugar, let the bees through the winter.
转年开春，王桂玲和丈夫便踏上了追逐花期的道路，四处寻找蜜源，“走到哪算到哪，我们就这样四海为家了。
The following spring, Wang Guiling and her husband embarked on the road to chase the flowering period, looking around for honey, "where to go, we are home.
”王桂玲说。
'said Wang.
仲夏时，王桂玲要到黑龙江长白山自然保护区里打椴树蜜。
Midsummer, Wang Guiling will go to Heilongjiang Changbai Mountain Nature Reserve to play linden tree honey.
保护区属于无人区，一呆就是一两个月，无人区里没有电，没有信号，过的完全是原始人的生活。
Protected areas are no man's land, stay for a month or two, no electricity, no signal in no man's land, the life of the primitive people.
没有食物，她便去山里挖野菜和蒲公英来吃。
Without food, she went to the mountains to dig for wild vegetables and dandelions to eat.
没有水，她和丈夫便挖坑捞地表水出来，烧开了喝。
When there was no water, she and her husband dug a hole for surface water and boiled it.
第一次喝，她的脸肿了，全身开始起疱疹，刺疼刺疼的。
For the first time, her face swollen and her whole body began to suffer from herpes, stabbing pain.
当时正赶上转场去云南，王桂玲连医院也没来得及去。
Just in time for the transfer to Yunnan, Wang Guiling even had time to go to the hospital.
到了云南后，大马蜂总在她家蜂场附近出没，“跟飞机的动静似的”，马蜂看准了王桂玲家的小意蜂，一把叼走两三个。
After arriving in Yunnan, the wasp haunts around her hive, "like the movement of the plane," and the wasp looks at Wang Guilin's little Italian bee and takes two or three away.
王桂玲抬起手，预备赶走大马蜂，大马蜂一个回旋，隔着睡衣将螫针扎到了她的后背上。
Wang raised her hand and prepared to drive off the wasp. The wasp swirled and stabbed the sting into her back through her pyjamas.
王桂玲说，常年在外经受风吹雨打，她早已习惯，但对蜜蜂来说，一点蒙蒙细雨，都会影响巨大。
Wang said she was used to being exposed to the wind and rain all year round, but for bees, a little drizzle could make a big difference.
一旦下雨，蜜蜂的翅膀会变得潮湿沉重，它们便很难飞起来，若遇上南方连着几天的阴雨天，蜜蜂则要一直留在蜂箱里，靠人工喂养。
Once it rains, the bees' wings become moist and heavy, making it difficult for them to fly. If it is cloudy and rainy in the south for several days, bees stay in their hives and feed by hand.
更严峻的是碰上大雪或霜冻，天水蜂农李志荣告诉本刊，2017年初春，甘肃一带下了一场大雪，雪打在油菜花上，折损了雌蕊，花蜜全没了。
More serious is the snow or frost, Tianshui beekeeper Li Zhirong told this print, early spring 2017, Gansu region, snow hit rape flowers, the loss of pistil, nectar lost.
出门在外，困难多，纷争也多。
It is harder and more difficult to be abroad.
自家蜜蜂叮了别人，被叮的人总要据理力争。
When a bee stung a man, he who was stung always fought hard.
“遇到好一些的，我们出医疗费，几百块就平息了。
"If we meet better, and we pay for it, a few hundred dollars will die.
遇到野蛮一点的，一定要管我们讹几千。
If you come across a bit of savagery, you must take care of us.
”王桂玲说。
'said Wang.
于是，每到一个新地方，她一定先提几罐蜂蜜，给附近的邻居挨个送一遍。
So, every time she went to a new place, she would carry a few cans of honey and give them to her neighbors.
养蜂业从业者吴佩珊告诉本刊，养蜂人中的大多数都是农民，经济基础薄弱，信息也相对闭塞，没有足够强大的能力抵御自然风险。
Beekeepers, most of whom are farmers, have a weak economic base and relatively little information and are not strong enough to withstand natural risks, Wu Peishan, a beekeeper, told reporters.
而带给养蜂人最多困扰的还是不断下跌的蜂蜜价格。
And what brings beekeepers the most trouble is the falling price of honey.
近两年，由于蜂产品造假挤兑了真蜜空间，蜂产品价格不断下跌，生产者与消费者之间信息不透明，养蜂人只能听从批发商、采购商的调遣，蜂农在蜂产品市场中没有定价权，这些进一步加剧了蜂农面临的市场风险。
In the past two years, the market risks faced by bee farmers have been further exacerbated by the fact that bee products have been used to create real honey spaces, bee prices have been falling, information between producers and consumers is opaque, beekeepers are at the mercy of wholesalers and buyers, and hummingkeepers have no pricing power in the bees market.
王桂玲在长白山自然保护区打出的椴树蜜，颜色雪白，黏稠状像是豆油一样，温度达到13度时，椴树蜜会结晶，普通顾客都以为那是掺杂了白糖的假蜜，这让王桂玲哭笑不得，她告诉本刊：“有买的人问我，怎么我们的蜜不甜，那是他们不知道原生态的蜜都是软绵绵的，有花香，吃起来带一点酸味。
The linden tree nectar from the Changbai Mountain Nature Reserve was white and sticky like soybean oil. When the temperature reached 13 degrees, the linden tree nectar crystallized and ordinary customers thought it was fake honey mixed with sugar.
特别甜的都是那种掺杂了白糖水的白糖蜜。
Especially sweet is the kind of white molasses mixed with sugar water.
”去年一年王桂玲卖蜂蜜赚了不足十万，减去四处转场的7万花销，所剩无几。
Wang earned less than 100,000 pounds of honey last year, less 70,000 yuan for every move, leaving little to spare.
在她看来，自己尚属于收入较好的养蜂人，她的蜜蜂都是零售，所以没赔本，还能有点收入，一天差不多能赚一两百。
To her, she was still a better-paid beekeeper, her bees were retail, so she didn't lose money, and she had a little income, almost a hundred or two a day.
“大部分养蜂人都没挣着钱，我知道的有养蜂人一年亏30万的，要说赚钱，都被收蜜商赚走了。
"Most beekeepers don't earn money. I know of beekeepers who lose 300,000 a year.
”她说。
'she said.
蜜蜂授粉的连锁反应在外养蜂四处漂泊，生活辛苦，收成还看运气，但总有些理由让养蜂人无法割舍。
Bee pollination ripples out of the beekeeping, life is hard, the harvest is good luck, but there are some reasons why beekeepers can not give up.
刘晓梅每到一个地方放蜂，忙完蜂场的活儿，就到附近的风景区转悠。
Liu Xiaomei every place to release bees, busy bee work, to the nearby scenic spots around.
村里的农民待她也热情，看她忙不过来时，便来蜂场里帮忙，动不动还往她的帐篷里送些瓜果蔬菜，还有人干脆拉着刘晓梅到自己园地里，指着菜地说：“刘姐，那块园子是我的，你想吃啥自己来弄。
When the peasants in the village showed their enthusiasm to her, they came to the beehive to help her, always brought some fruits and vegetables to her tent, and others simply dragged Liu Xiaomei to his garden and pointed to the vegetable plot.
”礼尚往来，刘晓梅制成蜂蜜后也会给当地村民送。
"The exchange of courteous, Liu Xiaomei made honey will also be sent to the local villagers.
“村民们都欢迎我们，因为我们的蜜蜂也可以给他们的农作物授粉。
"The villagers all welcome us because our bees can pollinate their crops as well.
再加上现在惠农政策，提倡蜜蜂授粉。
In addition to the current policy of farmers, bee pollination is advocated.
”“自然界中有85%左右的作物要通过昆虫授粉才能结实，而蜜蜂是人类饲养数量最大的昆虫，它可以被人类驯养，驯养后通过运输工具运送到需要授粉的地方，因此，蜜蜂的重要性就显得特别突出。
"About 85 percent of all crops in nature are pollinated by insects, and bees are the largest human breed, and their importance is particularly important because they can be domesticated and domesticated and transported to areas where pollination is needed.
”国家蜂产业技术体系首席科学家吴杰向本刊强调，“蜜蜂转场受阻，势必会影响到整个农业系统。
Wu Jie, chief scientist of the National Bee Industry Technology System, told the paper: "Bee diversion is blocked and this is bound to affect the entire agricultural system.
”在欧美国家，养蜂业的第一功能和国内完全不一样，他们主业不是生产蜂产品，而是让蜜蜂为农作物授粉。
Bee farming in Europe and the United States has a completely different primary function from home, where bees pollinate crops rather than produce bees.
蜂农靠出租蜜蜂授粉的收入，占他们全年收入的75%~90%。
Honeykeepers earn 75% to 90% of their annual income from hive pollination.
吴杰告诉本刊，像温室的草莓、油桃用蜜蜂来授粉，产出率能增长10%~20%，同时果型漂亮，甜度也高，有些果农愿意花钱请蜜蜂来授粉，但这种种植业者在我国的比例还是较小。
Wu Jie told this print, like the greenhouse strawberry, nectarine pollinate with bees, yield can increase by 10% ~ 20%, while the fruit is beautiful and sweet, some farmers are willing to pay bees to pollinate, but the proportion of such growers in our country is small.
早些年，因为认识不够，有的村民甚至会将蜂农驱赶出去。
In earlier years, some villagers even drove out the hummingbird because they were not sufficiently aware of it.
渐渐地，村民们依靠田野经验，意识到了蜜蜂授粉的好处，也开始主动接纳养蜂人。
Gradually, the villagers, relying on field experience, realized the benefits of bee pollination and began to volunteer for beekeepers.
多次转场的养蜂人追的大都是油菜花。
Most of the beekeepers who have changed fields are rapeseed.
油菜花作为重要的经济作物，在我国种植面积大、范围广，养蜂人所获的收益也高。
As an important cash crop, rapeseed is widely cultivated in China, and its benefits to beekeepers are also high.
江西农业大学曾志将教授团队曾做过一个油菜授粉实验，将实验分成了三部分处理：一是无蜂授粉区，二是蜜蜂授粉区，三是自然授粉区。
Zeng Zhi of Jiangxi Agricultural University has done an experiment of rapeseed pollination and divided it into three parts: bee-free pollination area, bee pollination area and natural pollination area.
无蜂授粉区亩产59.89公斤，自然授粉区亩产91.86公斤，蜜蜂授粉区亩产128.75公斤。
Bee-free pollination area per mu yield 59.89 kg, natural pollination area per mu yield 91.86 kg, bee pollination area per mu production 128.75 kg.
实验表明，蜜蜂授粉有明显的增产效果，仅自然授粉是不充分的。
Experiments show that honeybee pollination has obvious stimulation effect, and natural pollination alone is not enough.
蜜蜂授粉的好处是不言而喻的，但在中国却一直未能广泛推广。
The benefits of bee pollination are self-evident, but have not been widely promoted in China.
深究起来，首要原因是授粉还未能给蜂农带来好的经济收入，蜂农难以靠授粉谋生。
The first reason to delve deeper is that pollination has yet to generate good financial returns for beekeepers, who struggle to earn a living from pollination.
前几年，李廷春在内蒙古放蜂，当地农民给他钱，要他的蜜蜂为自己田地授粉。
A few years ago, Li Tingchun wasps in Inner Mongolia, local farmers gave him money to his bees to pollinate his fields.
授了几个月，蜜蜂数量迅速减少，他仔细琢磨后才发现，当地有一种葵花，花瓣上有黏胶，蜜蜂授粉时容易粘在上面，飞不回来。
After months of teaching, the population of bees rapidly dwindled. He thought about it carefully and discovered that there was a kind of sunflower with sticky petals that bees could easily stick to when pollinating and could not fly back.
授粉赚的钱还不够他买幼蜂花去的钱，他想，这买卖实在不划算，于是此后就很少接授粉的活儿。
The money he earned from pollination was not enough to buy the honeybee, he thought. It was a bargain, and he seldom took up pollination afterwards.
在新疆，找养蜂人陈跃辉授粉的农民多，但赖账的也多，新疆靠北方，一年真正授粉的时间只有6月、7月两个月。
In Xinjiang, more farmers are looking for beekeeper Chen Yuehui to pollinate, but more defaulters. Xinjiang is near the north, with only two months of actual pollination in June and July.
陈跃辉的200箱蜜蜂能给1000亩农作物授粉，但当地授期短，授上一两次，它们就要靠人工喂养了。
Chen's 200 boxes of bees pollinate 1,000 acres of crops, but the local crop is so short that once or twice they have to be fed artificially.
此外，蜜蜂采蜜授粉对土地也有要求，一旦农田里有农药的气味，蜜蜂闻到就会很快死亡。
Bees are also required to pollinate honey and die as soon as there is a pesticide smell in their fields.
“好多地方的农民不是同时打农药，而是今天他打完，明天你打，后天再张三李四家打。
"In many places farmers do not hit pesticides at the same time, but today he finished fighting, tomorrow you fight, the day after tomorrow Zhang Sanli four dozen.
蜜蜂受影响的时间很长。
Bees are affected for a long time.
”在云南繁蜂的养蜂人李廷春说。
"Li Tingchun, a beekeeper in Yunnan province, said.
2018年《Science》杂志发表的有关研究显示，新烟碱类杀虫剂会伤害蜜蜂大脑，阻碍蜜蜂繁殖，影响它们的觅食和导航方式。
Studies published in 2018 in the journal Science show that new nicotine insecticides harm the brains of bees, impede their reproduction and affect their feeding and navigation patterns.
而烟碱类物质，诸如啶虫脒、噻虫胺、吡虫啉等，正是全球蜜蜂数量下降的罪魁祸首。
Nicotinic substances, such as amitraz, thiamine and imidacloprid, are responsible for the global decline in bee numbers.
但在民间，农民对于农药的危害缺少警觉，仍在大量喷洒农药以防治病虫害。
But among the people, farmers are not aware of the dangers of pesticides and are still spraying them in large quantities to control pests and diseases.
即便仅从农作物授粉的价值来看，养蜂人和他们的蜜蜂的重要性也被忽视了。
Even in terms of the value of pollination, the importance of beekeepers and their bees has been overlooked.
吴杰告诉本刊，2006年至2008年间，我国36种主要作物蜜蜂授粉的年均价值高达3042.20亿元，是中国蜂业总产值的76倍，相当于中国农业总产值的12.30%。
Wu told the magazine that between 2006 and 2008, the average annual value of honeybee pollination on 36 major crops reached 304.220 billion yuan, 76 times the total output value of China's bees and 12.30 percent of China's total agricultural output.
据他推算，“中国仅蔬菜、果树、棉花、油菜、西瓜、甜瓜和草莓等作物，需要授粉蜂群的数量就达6000万-8800万群，远远超过我国现有的900多万蜂群数。
According to his calculations, "China has only vegetables, fruit trees, cotton, rape, watermelons, melons and strawberries. The number of pollinated bees has reached 60-88 million, far surpassing the current population of 9 million.
”⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载请联系后台。
The copyright of the article belongs to Three Lives Weekly. Welcome to your friends circle, please contact the backstage.
点击图片，一键下单「营造学社」▼ 点击阅读原文，进入周刊书店，购买更多好书。
Why don't we go to a weekly bookshop and buy more good books Why don't you come over to our office?
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
蜜蜂也饿，养蜂人挺住啊！。
Bees are hungry too. Beekeepers stay up.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "蜜蜂也饿，养蜂人挺住啊！";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Bee also hungry; beekeeper held out!; & quot;
var msg_desc = "一年四季，由南至北，不停追逐花期，带蜜蜂转场到新的蜜源地，这是我国800万养蜂人的生存方式。
var msg _ desc = & quot; all year round, from south to north, chasing the flowering season and bringing bees to new honey fields, a way of life for our 8 million beekeepers.
突如其来的疫情中断了这一链环，也波及到农作物的蜜蜂授粉。
The sudden outbreak disrupted the chain and pollinated bees, which also affected crops.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
