医护人员每天要用300万口罩，全球各国如何应对？。
Health care workers use three million masks a day. How do countries around the world respond?
肖恩。
Sean.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：图虫记者：肖恩“ “如果我们无法保护医护人员，就无法阻止新冠病毒的传播。
Source: Toothworm Reporter: Shawn, "If we can't protect health care workers, we can't stop the spread of the new crown virus.
””对于身处抗疫一线的医护人员，口罩等防护物资就是他们的“铠甲”。
"For medical staff on the front lines of the epidemic, protective equipment such as masks is their armour.
而在全球疫情形势愈发严峻的当口，物资紧缺已经成为各国共同面临的难题。
At a time when the global epidemic situation is becoming more and more serious, material shortages have become a common challenge for all countries.
世界卫生组织总干事谭德塞3日在例行新闻发布会上发出警告：由于全球范围内需求增加以及囤积和不当使用等原因，医用手套、口罩、呼吸器、护目镜、面罩和防护服等价格飙升，供给出现短缺，使得各国的应对能力受到影响。
Medical gloves, face masks, respirators, goggles, face masks and protective clothing have soared and supply shortages have affected the ability of countries to respond because of rising global demand and hoarding and improper use, the head of the World Health Organization (WHO), Thence, warned at a regular news conference.
“如果我们无法保护医护人员，我们就无法阻止新冠病毒的传播。
"If we can't protect health care workers, we can't stop the spread of the new cap virus.
”他说。
'he said.
世卫组织估计，全球医护人员一个月需要8900万个外科口罩、7600万双医检手套和160万副护目镜。
The WHO estimates that 89 million surgical masks, 76 million pairs of medical gloves and 1.6 million pairs of goggles are needed each month by health workers worldwide.
根据目前的情况，预计全球范围内个人防护装备供应量需要增加40%。
Based on the current situation, a 40 per cent increase in the global supply of PPE is expected.
谭德塞呼吁政府制定激励措施，鼓励制造商扩大生产。
Mr. Tanner called on the government to create incentives for manufacturers to expand production.
这包括放松对个人防护装备和其他医疗用品出口和分销的限制。
This includes easing restrictions on the export and distribution of personal protective equipment and other medical supplies.
以最常用的口罩为例，中国是世界口罩生产的中心，其产量占全球的一半，但随着武汉疫情爆发，出口大大受限。
Consider the most commonly used masks. China is the center of world mask production, accounting for half of global production, but exports have been severely limited by the Wuhan outbreak.
为了缓解国内医疗物资紧缺的压力，面临疫情重压的国家正在想尽一切办法应对。
In order to ease the pressure of domestic medical supplies, countries facing the burden of the epidemic are doing everything possible to respond.
伊朗：囤积走私医疗用品可判死刑这个内外交困的中东大国最为令人担忧。
Iran: The death penalty for hoarding smuggled medical supplies is most worrying for the beleaguered Middle East power.
截至3月3日，伊朗累计确诊2336例，其中77例死亡，病死率高达3.3%。
As of March 3, a cumulative total of 2,336 cases have been diagnosed in Iran, including 77 deaths, with a fatality rate of 3.3%.
世卫突发事件规划执行主任莱恩（Michael Ryan）也提出了警告，伊朗卫生系统对防护物资需求的紧迫性远超其他国家。
Michael Ryan, WHO's executive director of emergency planning, has also warned that Iran's health-care system is far more urgent than other countries "need for protective goods.
该国外长扎里夫近日就在社交媒体向国际社会求援，目前该国N95口罩和普通三层口罩、呼吸器、核酸检测试剂盒等防疫物资告急。
Foreign Minister Nawaz Zarif has appealed to the international community for help on social media, with emergency supplies such as N95 masks and regular three-storey masks, respirators and nucleic acid test kits.
最高领袖哈梅内伊在3日下令军队协助卫生部门防控病毒传播。
Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei on the 3rd ordered the military to help health authorities control the spread of the virus.
国防部也加入了口罩和消毒液的生产，并在下属机构建立起了生产线。
The Ministry of Defence is also involved in the production of masks and disinfectants and has set up production lines in subordinate agencies.
国防部长哈塔米此前要求，国防部每日需生产口罩2万只，消毒液2万升。
Defense Minister Khatami had previously demanded that the Defense Ministry produce 20,000 masks and 20,000 litres of disinfectant a day.
法尔达电台在同一天报道，卫生部长纳马基（Saee Namaki）2月29日曾致信工业、矿产和贸易部部长拉赫玛尼，否认了对方之前关于伊朗每天可生产百万个口罩的说法，称这是“空洞的口号”。
On the same day, Farda reported that Health Minister Saee Namaki had written to Minister of Industry, Mines and Trade Rahmani on February 29, denying previous claims that Iran could produce a million face masks a day, calling it an "empty slogan."
纳马基表示，过去一周卫生部仅收到100万个口罩。
Mr Namaki said the ministry had received only one million face masks in the past week.
此外，为了打击囤积和走私医疗物资，政府已经逮捕了部分嫌疑人。
In addition, the Government has arrested some suspects in an effort to combat the stockpiling and smuggling of medical supplies.
如果被以“散播腐败”定罪，他们最高将面临死刑，或最低5至20年监禁。
If convicted of "spreading corruption," they face the death penalty, or a minimum of 5 to 20 years in prison.
韩国：取消出口，免费发放1.3亿只确诊病例早早突破5000大关的工业国韩国也陷入口罩短缺的困境。
South Korea: South Korea, an industrial country that scrapped exports and sent 130 million confirmed cases free of charge ahead of the 5,000 mark, is also facing a shortage of masks.
总统文在寅近日因为政府供给口罩不力而向全体国民道歉。
President Wen Jin Yin recently apologized to the nation for failing to supply masks.
文在寅就解决口罩问题做出部署：为扩大生产提供支援、制定公平的配给方案、透明介绍供给情况。
Wen made arrangements to solve the mask problem by providing support for expanded production, developing a fair distribution plan, and providing transparent supply information.
副总理兼企划财政部长官洪楠基则提出，政府将向弱势群体免费发放1.3亿只口罩，同时力争把全国口罩的日产量提高到1400万只，并将大幅提升通过公共流通网的供给比率（目前为50%），每只售价以1200-1500韩元（约合人民币7-9元）为宜。
Honanaki, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Planning and Finance, said the government would distribute 130 million face masks to vulnerable groups free of charge, and strive to increase the daily output of masks to 14 million and increase the supply ratio through the public distribution network (currently 50%) to 1,200-1,500 won (about 7-9 yuan) each.
洪楠基表示，为打击恶性囤积行为，各大药房本周内将全面启动监管系统，防止重复购买；政府将为口罩厂商提供增产补助、保障原料供应等各项支援；还将考虑从巴西、南非等地区进口。
To combat the vicious hoarding, manufacturers will be fully activated this week to prevent repeat purchases, Hongnaki said, adding that the government will provide support to mask makers to increase production and secure supplies of raw materials, and will consider imports from Brazil and South Africa.
韩国执政党共同民主党、政府和青瓦台4日召开会议，决定将基本取消口罩出口，鼓励周末生产，以确保供给。
South Korea's ruling Joint Democratic Party, the government and Qingwadai 4 meeting, decided to basically eliminate the export of masks, encourage weekend production to ensure supply.
会议上还讨论了确保共享医药品安全使用服务(DUR)信息共享的制度，进一步探索防止重复购买口罩，尽量减少排队现象的方案。
A system to ensure the sharing of information on the safe use of pharmaceuticals (DUR) was also discussed, and a programme to prevent duplication of purchase of masks and minimize queuing was further explored.
日本：储备仅743万个，产能要求翻两倍日本有1.27亿人口，本就是需求大国，在疫情冲击下更是面临供不应求的局面，甚至从零售店的柜台一度消失踪影。
Japan: With only 7.43 million reserves and twice as many capacity requirements, Japan, with a population of 127 million, is already in a situation of high demand, particularly under the impact of the epidemic, and has even disappeared from retail store counters.
日本政府在4日的预算会上表示，截至2日国家拥有的口罩共约743万只，目前正在研究其分配问题。
The government said on Tuesday it had about 7.43 million face masks and was studying their distribution.
鉴于疫情扩大，在野党要求灵活使用国家目前就新型流感对策等储备的口罩。
Given the spread of the epidemic, opposition parties are demanding flexible use of the country's current stocks of masks, such as the new flu response.
政府在前一天决定，将从2019年度的预备费中拨款22.85亿日元（约合人民币1.48亿元），用于发放口罩。
The government decided the day before to allocate 2,285 million yen (148 million yuan) from its 2019 reserve for the distribution of masks.
首相安倍晋三从上月底就呼吁产商增产口罩，余量将由国家收购，作为储备物资。
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has called on manufacturers to increase production of masks since the end of last month, with the remainder to be bought by the state as a reserve.
主要厂商已经响应政府号召，采取24小时生产体制增产口罩。
Major manufacturers have responded to the government's call for a 24-hour production system to increase production of masks.
电子电器生产商夏普预计也将于3月中旬启动口罩生产，日产能15万个。
Sharp, an electronics maker, is also expected to start manufacturing masks in mid-March, with a capacity of 150,000 a day.
内阁官房长官菅义伟在2月26日重申，预计3月可具备每月供应6亿个口罩的能力，达到1月产能的两倍。
The Chief Cabinet Secretary, Naoto Kan, reiterated on 26 February that he expected to be able to supply 600 million masks a month in March, twice the capacity in January.
但日经新闻网指出，目前正值“花粉症”流行期，即使达到日本政府争取的月产6亿个，能否解决供应短缺也是未知数。
But the company said it was in the midst of an epidemic of hay fever, and it was uncertain whether the shortfall would be solved even if the government's target of 600 million a month were reached.
意大利：缺口达1000万，紧急求助邻国包括意大利在内的大部分欧洲口罩制造商生产线都设在中国，欧洲本身产能十分有限。
Italy: With a shortfall of 10 million, most of Europe's mask-makers, including Italy, are operating in China, with limited capacity in Europe itself.
目前确诊病例在境外国家中位居第二的意大利面临至少1000万个口罩的缺口。
Italy, which currently has the second-highest number of confirmed cases abroad, faces a shortfall of at least 10 million masks.
意大利民防部负责人丹杰洛（Luigi D'Angelo）2日对法新社表示，意大利当天已经收到来自南非的40万个口罩，另外还有40万个将于4日抵意，但这对于如此严重的疫情来说远远不够。
The head of Italy's civil defence ministry, Luigi D & apos; Angelo, told AFP yesterday that Italy had received 400,000 face masks from South Africa that day and another 400,000 will arrive on April 4, but not enough for such a serious outbreak.
丹杰洛称，在疫情最严重的伦巴第大区，一天的口罩消耗量为20万个，地区医院的库存基本已经耗尽。
In Lombardy, where the epidemic is most severe, there is a daily consumption of 200,000 masks and the district hospital stock is almost exhausted, according to Danjelo.
由于意大利国内不生产口罩，因此正联系罗马尼亚、瑞士和荷兰等有生产的国家。
As Italy does not produce its own masks, it is contacting producing countries such as Romania, Switzerland and the Netherlands.
邻国法国也严阵以待。
Neighbouring France is also on standby.
总统马克龙在推特上表示，法国将征用目前所有的口罩库存和生产产能，并把口罩分发给公共卫生专业人员及新冠病毒的感染者。
On Twitter, President Macron said France would expropriate all existing masks stocks and production capacity and distribute them to public health professionals and those infected with the new cap virus.
美国：考虑动用战时法律扩产能美国拥有3.27亿人，其供需紧张可想而知。
US: Consider using wartime legislation to expand production capacity The US, with 327 million people, is struggling with demand and supply.
美国卫生与公共服务部（HSS）官员罗伯特·卡德尔茨（Robert Kadlec）近日透露，如果疫情大规模爆发，美国需要35亿个N95口罩，但目前库存只达到需求的十分之一。
Robert Kadlec, an official with the US Department of Health and Human Services (HSS), recently revealed that the US would need 3.5 billion N95 million face masks in the event of a major outbreak, but only one-tenth of what is needed.
美国大部分的口罩和防护服等物资生产工厂都设立在海外，这也成为供应紧缺的一个重要原因。
The fact that most U. S. factories producing materials, such as masks and protective clothing, are located overseas is also a major source of shortages.
食品药品监督管理局（FDA）从2日起放宽了口罩使用范围，将一种通常是建筑工人用于防尘的口罩也纳入可供医务工作者使用的物资清单。
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has relaxed the use of masks since February 2, adding a mask, usually used by construction workers to protect them from dust, to the list of goods available for medical workers.
这种口罩能有效过滤95%颗粒物，医院和手术室里也会使用这种口罩防菌。
The mask effectively filters 95% of the particles and is used in hospitals and operating rooms to prevent germs.
卫生部医疗总监亚当斯（Jerome M. Adams）多次呼吁公众不要抢购口罩，把它们留给真正有需要的人。
Jerome M. Adams, the health director, has repeatedly called on the public not to snap up masks and leave them to those who really need them.
他强调，目前普通民众的风险还很低。
He stressed that the risks to the general population were currently low.
负责抗疫事务的副总统彭斯和HSS部长阿扎尔（Alex Azar）也都发表过类似的呼吁。
Similar calls have been made by Vice President Burns, who is in charge of fighting the epidemic, and by Alex Azar, the HSS minister.
阿扎尔1日在接受采访时表示，在必要的时候，特朗普政府可能会动用《战争权力法》扩大护物资生产。
Adjara said in an interview on the 1, when necessary, the Trump administration may use the War Powers Act to expand protective goods production.
此外，政府也考虑启用配套的《国防生产法案》的权力，保证产商优先生产口罩和手套等重点防护物资。
In addition, the Government is considering the power of the accompanying Defence Production Act to ensure that manufacturers give priority to the production of priority protective materials such as masks and gloves.
目前美国面临的疫情压力大增，确诊病例上升到了125例，病亡人，且多地宣布进入紧急状态。
The pressure on the United States has increased dramatically, with the number of confirmed cases rising to 125, the number of patients and the declaration of a state of emergency.
而其他制造能力欠缺的国家则更注重于节流。
Other countries with less manufacturing capacity have focused more on cost-cutting.
例如泰国政府将对个人、网上或实体商户以及公务员能够持有的口罩数量设限制，公共卫生和医疗机构除外。
For example, the Thai Government will impose restrictions on the number of masks that individuals, online or entity businesses and civil servants can hold, except in public health and medical institutions.
被发现持有过多口罩者，最高将面临七年监禁和14万泰铢（约合人民币4500元）罚款。
Those found guilty of wearing too many face up to seven years in jail and a fine of 140,000 baht (4,500 yuan).
而俄罗斯则禁止出口包括口罩在内的几种医疗产品，以防国内出现短缺。
Russia has banned the export of several medical products, including masks, in case of shortages at home.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
医护人员每天要用300万口罩，全球各国如何应对？。
Health care workers use three million masks a day. How do countries around the world respond?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "医护人员每天要用300万口罩，全球各国如何应对？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "“如果我们无法保护医护人员，就无法阻止新冠病毒的传播。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "If we can't protect our health workers, we can't stop the spread of the new crown virus.
”";。
";;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
