欧洲口罩遭疯抢，可大街上却没人戴。
European masks were ravened, but no one wore them on the streets.
钱伯彦 陈英。
Mr Chamberlain Chen.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：图虫特约作者：钱伯彦 陈英“ 笔者尝试戴上口罩，但很快引起周遭人群窃窃私语。
Source: Toothworm Toothwein Chen Ying. I tried wearing a mask, but I soon got a buzz from the crowd around me
由于德国出现过乘客向列车员“举报”有疑似病例而逼停整列高铁的先例，笔者最终选择放弃继续佩戴口罩。
Due to the precedent of passengers "reporting" suspected cases to the conductor and forcing them to stop wearing the entire train, I finally chose to give up wearing masks.
”新冠病毒的爆发在欧洲各国至今仍未有趋缓的迹象。
The outbreak has so far shown no sign of abating in European countries.
截至欧洲时间3月3日中午，疫情最为严重的意大利累计确诊已达2063例，是全球第三大受灾国。
As of midday on March 3, Europe time, the most serious Italian cumulative diagnosis of 2,063 cases, is the world's third most affected country.
由于欧洲一体化带来的人口高度流动性，除个别东欧国家之外，几乎欧洲国家都先后出现大量新增确诊病例，其中法国、德国、西班牙大有突破200例确诊大关之势，即便是在“瘟疫公司”游戏中最难感染地区之一的冰岛也已确诊9例。
As a result of the high level of population mobility brought about by European integration, almost all European countries, with the exception of a few Eastern European countries, have seen a significant increase in the number of confirmed cases, with France, Germany and Spain recording more than 200 confirmed cases, even in Iceland, one of the hardest-hit regions in the plague company game.
整个欧洲已沦陷。
The whole of Europe has fallen.
制图：钱伯彦欧洲目前已经是继东亚三国和伊朗之后疫情最为严重的地区，但不同于人人全副武装的中国各大城市，在欧洲各国街头却始终难觅佩戴口罩的行人。
Cartography: Chamberlain Europe is by far the worst affected region after East Asia and Iran, but unlike China's heavily armed cities, the streets of Europe have always had trouble finding people wearing masks.
欧洲人对于佩戴口罩究竟有多么抵触？一个最典型的案例便是2月26日意大利议员马特奥·奥索（Matteo Dall'Osso）因佩戴口罩出席会议而遭到同僚的嘲讽。
A case in point is how resistant Europeans are to wearing masks: Matteo Dall & amp; Osso, an Italian MP, was ridiculed by his colleagues for wearing a mask to the meeting on February 26.
尽管奥索向议长强调其佩戴口罩并不影响其他人，且这仅是因自己先前去过北部疫区而采取的防护措施，但他的举动在社交媒体上依然遭到了众多意大利人质疑其免疫能力低下、刻意制造恐慌的批评。
Though Osso stressed to the speaker that wearing a mask did not affect anyone else, and that it was only because he had previously been in a northern affected area, his actions were criticized on social media by many Italians for questioning his low immunity and deliberately creating panic.
不仅在意大利，一周前在西班牙加纳利群岛上曾经发生了因某旅客确诊新冠病毒而导致H10 Costa Adeje Palace旅店及其中近1000名游客被强制隔离的紧急情况。
Not only in Italy, but also in the Canary Islands, Spain, a week ago, there was an emergency situation in which the H10 Costa Adeje Palace hotel and nearly 1,000 of its visitors were forcibly quarantined as a result of a traveller's diagnosis of the new crown virus.
当时恰巧入住该旅店的顾臻夫妇告诉笔者，虽然当地政府向旅馆内被隔离人员分发了口罩，但岛上其他游客依然无人佩戴口罩。
Mr. and Mrs. Gu, who happened to be staying at the hotel, told me that although the local government had distributed masks to the isolated people in the hotel, none of the other tourists on the island were wearing masks.
在5天的隔离结束之后，即便是先前被隔离的游客也同样选择摘下了口罩。
After five days of isolation, even previously isolated tourists chose to take off their masks as well.
“从酒店到机场，一路上我们只看到两个白人中年女性戴了口罩，相比病毒，大家更关心岛上交通会不会封锁以及能否准时离岛，”顾臻说。
"From the hotel to the airport, we saw only two middle-aged white women wearing masks. We were more concerned about the closure of the island than about the virus," Gu said.
而在德国最繁忙的法兰克福火车站，笔者在半小时内仅能找到一名佩戴口罩的德国人。
At Frankfurt, Germany's busiest railway station, I was able to find only one German wearing a mask in half an hour.
不过该男子在与人交谈时仍然选择摘下口罩，理由也仅仅是方便交流。
However, the man chose to remove the mask when talking to someone, again for the simple reason of facilitating communication.
2月26日欧冠1/8决赛，里昂主场对阵尤文图斯，尽管事前法国方面对接纳4000余名客队球迷表示不满，但在比赛当天看台上依然无人佩戴口罩。
Lyon played Juventus in the quarter-finals of the Champions League on February 26, and no face masks were on the stands on the day of the match, despite French dissatisfaction with the reception of more than 4,000 visitors.
欧洲人为何不愿意配戴口罩？一个重要原因在于至今尚未有欧洲国家政府或欧盟机构建议民众佩戴口罩出门。
One important reason why Europeans are reluctant to wear masks is that so far no European government or EU body has advised people to wear masks.
法国卫生部长奥利维尔·韦兰（Olivier Veran）此前就公开表示：“如果没有医生的指示，则没有必要佩戴口罩，否则将造成口罩短缺。
Olivier Veran, France's health minister, had previously said publicly: "There is no need to wear a mask without instructions from a doctor, otherwise there would be a shortage of masks."
”而德国卫生部长延斯·施潘（Jens Spahn）更是表示：“佩戴口罩毫无必要，因为病毒不是通过呼吸传染的。
And German Health Minister Jens Spahn said: "Wearing a mask is unnecessary because the virus is not transmitted by breathing.
”即便是在形势最严峻的意大利，卫生部长罗伯托·斯佩兰萨（Roberto Speranza）公布的防疫指南中也没有出现佩戴口罩一条。
Even in Italy, where the situation is most severe, the health minister, Roberto Speranza, has issued no guidance on how to wear a mask.
事实上，德法意三国卫生部长在公开场合上也确实从未佩戴过口罩出镜。
Indeed, the ministers of health of Germany, France, and Italy never appear in public wearing masks.
除了官方对于佩戴口罩的不提倡之外，学术界对于佩戴口罩的效果也存在着争议。
In addition to official reluctance to wear masks, there is debate in academia about the effectiveness of wearing them.
意大利卫生部长斯佩兰萨的顾问、世界卫生组织执委会成员沃尔特·里查尔迪（Walter Ricciardi）就强调，口罩只用于保护医护人员和病人。
Walter Ricciardi, an adviser to Italy's Health Minister, and a member of the World Health Organization's Executive Board, has emphasized that masks are used only to protect health-care workers and patients.
而包括此前成功使用ß2肾上腺素受体激动剂缓解并治愈德国新冠病毒病例的主治医师文特纳（Clemens Wendtner）以及德国P4实验室所在的罗伯特·科赫研究所都表示，健康人佩戴口罩对于预防病毒感染几乎没有作用，在经过20分钟呼吸打湿之后，口罩几乎没有效用。
But Clemens Wendtner, who previously successfully used ß-adrenaline receptor agonist to relieve and cure cases of the German new crown virus, and the Robert Koch Institute, where Germany's P4 laboratory is based, say that wearing masks in healthy people has little effect on preventing viral infections, and after 20 minutes of breathing and wetting, masks are almost useless.
持有该观点的普通欧洲人不在少数。
Many ordinary Europeans share this view.
一位工作于宝马慕尼黑供应商的工程师莱昂哈特告诉笔者：“目前不能证明戴口罩有效，确保自己免疫能力和注重锻炼才有用。
"There is no way to prove that wearing a mask is effective, making sure you are immune and focusing on exercise," Lion Hart, an engineer at BMW Munich supplier, told me.
”3月2日，宝马慕尼黑研发总部FIZ就因出现疑似而遭到封锁，但据莱昂哈特介绍，仍然无人选择佩戴口罩。
The BMW Munich research and development headquarters, FIZ, was blocked on March 2 for suspicion, but according to Leonhardt, no one has yet chosen to wear a mask.
另一位在法兰克福工作的工程师马蒂亚斯也同样向笔者表示：“工作环境里几乎都是青壮年，新冠病毒的病亡率也低于流感，并没有担心的必要。
"Almost all working conditions are young and prime, and the death rate of the new crown virus is lower than the flu, so there is no need to worry," Mathias, another engineer based in Frankfurt, told the author.
”即使在家居商城这种大客流量公共场所工作的售货员沃夫罗斯基也同样对新冠病毒嗤之以鼻：“今天（周六）的确客人少了很多，我不确定是不是因为这个病毒，但这（病毒）又有什么了不起？每年因流感死的人比这多多了。
Even saleswoman Waflowski, who works in a public area with large passenger traffic, such as Home Mall, scoffs at the new crown virus: "Today (Saturday) does have a lot fewer customers, and I'm not sure if it's the virus, but what's so great about it?
”说罢，沃夫罗斯基还提醒笔者在附近刚刚又确诊一例。
"That said, Waflowski reminded me of another case that had just been confirmed nearby.
面对是否感到恐慌的追问，沃夫罗斯基的唯一担忧只是疫情影响到这个月的生意了。
Confronted with the question of whether he was panicked, Wolfowski's only concern was that the outbreak was affecting business this month.
至少在统计数据上，沃夫罗斯基们的观点并非全无道理。
On the statistical side, at least, the Waflowski arguments are not entirely unfounded.
至少在德国，根据罗伯特·科赫研究所的数据显示，流感每年会夺走100至200条生命，而新冠病毒在德国至今仍无死亡病例。
In Germany, at least, according to the Robert Koch Institute, the flu kills between 100 and 200 people a year, while the crowning virus has yet to die in Germany.
即使在死亡人数超过50起的意大利，患者也多是年长者以及有重大疾病史的群体。
Even in Italy, where the death toll exceeds 50, patients are mostly elderly and people with a history of major illnesses.
此外，大部分欧洲人深信“病人才戴口罩”，及其带来的变相歧视也是使得佩戴口罩难以成为习惯的重要因素之一。
Moreover, most Europeans are convinced that "patients wear masks," and the disguised discrimination that it entails, are one of the main factors that make wearing masks difficult.
在3月1日于莱比锡举行的莱比锡红牛对阵勒沃库森的比赛中，就有20名日本人因佩戴口罩及东亚面孔引起了安保人员注意，并最终在开赛11分钟之后被强制请出了球场。
At the Leipzig Red Bull vs Leverkusen on March 1, 20 Japanese were forced out of the stadium 11 minutes after the start of the match because of their masks and East Asian faces.
即便是在封闭环境的高铁车厢内，佩戴口罩同样显得极为引人瞩目。
Even in enclosed high-speed rail carriages, wearing masks is highly visible.
笔者曾尝试戴上口罩，但很快便引起周遭人群的窃窃私语。
I tried wearing a mask, but I soon got whispers from the crowd around me.
虽然并没有乘客会主动提出意见，但由于一周前德国出现过乘客向列车员“举报”有疑似病例而逼停整列高铁的先例，笔者最终选择放弃继续佩戴口罩。
Although no passenger offered to comment, I eventually gave up wearing a mask after a German passenger "reported" a suspected case to a conductor a week ago, forcing him to stop wearing a high-speed rail line.
在另一方面，虽然各国政府不鼓励佩戴口罩，街头佩戴口罩的人群比例也极小，但欧洲各地依然出现了口罩供不应求的状况。
On the other hand, while governments discourage the wearing of masks and the percentage of people wearing them on the streets is minimal, shortages of masks continue to occur across Europe.
3月1日，欧盟委员会主席冯德莱恩确认，意大利已经向欧盟求助，请求支援该国口罩供应。
On March 1, European Commission President von der Lehn confirmed that Italy had turned to the European Union for help with the supply of masks.
不过即便是在生产能力最强的德国，各大药店的口罩也已被抢购一空。
But even in the most productive Germany, pharmacies have sold out of masks.
据了解，目前巴伐利亚和法兰克福等地的商店皆无法提供任何一次性口罩或N95口罩。
At present, shops in Bavaria and Frankfurt are unable to provide any disposable masks or N95 masks.
至于何时能够补货，慕尼黑某药店柜员告诉笔者：“我们也无法确定，现在连厂家电话也已无法打通。
As to when the goods can be restocked, a pharmacy teller in Munich told the writer: "We are not sure, even now the factory phone can not be opened.
唯一可能有存货的地方是建材市场的FFP3口罩。
The only area likely to be stocked is the FFP3 mask in the building materials market.
”FFP3口罩即是欧标的N95规格口罩，一般情况下仅有油漆喷涂工人才会使用。
FFP3 masks are Euro-standard N95-gauge masks, which are normally used only by painting workers.
据笔者于2月29日在建材市场的走访，目前建材市场的各类口罩虽仍有部分现货，但库存也已见底。
According to my visit to the building materials market on Feb. 29, all kinds of masks in the building materials market are still available, but stocks have bottomed out.
某位因工作需求购买FFP3口罩的建筑工人告诉笔者：“这里附近的韩国企业很多，一些韩国人在抢购。
"There are a lot of South Korean businesses around here, and some South Koreans are snapping up," one construction worker who bought an FFP3 mask for work needs told me.
”该工人相信，建材市场的口罩仍有现货仅仅是因为该类市场选址远离市区，才得以免遭抢购。
The worker believes the mask in the construction materials market is still available only because the market is located far from the city to avoid a snap-up.
口罩的稀缺程度体现最为明显的则是在以亚马逊为代表的电商平台。
The scarcity of masks is most obvious in the Amazon as a representative of the e-commerce platform.
据了解，最高级的FFP3口罩平日售价在10欧元/只以下。
It is understood that the most advanced FFP3 mask is usually sold for up to 10 euros per day.
当笔者于2月初购买该型口罩时，单价已上升至14欧元/只，目前在亚马逊上，甚至有个人卖家卖出了90欧元/只的单价。
By the time I bought the mask in early February, the unit price had risen to 14 euros / unit, and there were even individual sellers selling 90 euros / unit price on Amazon.
在德国Real超市的官方网站上，FFP3的口罩价格已上涨到999欧元一盒（10片）进一步加剧稀缺供应并推高昂贵售价的，则是欧洲人对医嘱的严格遵照。
The price of FFP3 masks has risen to 999 euros a case (10 pieces) on the official website of Real Supermarket in Germany, further exacerbating scarce supplies and pushing up expensive prices.
药店工作人员说，即使是防护等级最高的FFP3口罩，每次使用时间不能超过3个小时，口罩也需要半小时“休息期”，而单个口罩最长寿命不得超过7.5小时。
Pharmacists say that even the most heavily protected FFP3 mask should last no more than three hours at a time, that a half-hour "rest period" is required for a mask, and that the maximum lifespan of a single mask should not exceed 7.5 hours.
这也意味着，如果一位普通办公室员工每日在外10个小时，一个月就将消耗掉至少40个口罩。
It also means that if an average office worker is out for 10 hours a day, he or she will consume at least 40 masks a month.
不过相比于口罩，目前欧洲各国更为稀缺的则是消毒液、洗手液以及包括意大利面在内的基本生活物资。
But sanitizers, hand sanitizers and basic necessities, including spaghetti, are now scarcer than masks in Europe.
虽然口罩并不在各国政府防疫指南之中，但是“勤洗手、减少握手和贴面礼”等细节却被反复提及。
Although masks are not part of the government's immunization guidelines, details such as "washing hands frequently, shaking hands less and veneering" were repeatedly mentioned.
德国卫生部甚至建议民众在家囤积为期10天的生活物资。
The German ministry of health even advises people to hoard supplies at home for 10 days.
3月2日的会议上，德国内政部长拒绝了默克尔的握手。
At a meeting on March 2, Germany's interior minister rejected Merkel's handshake.
图源：每日镜报在官方的鼓励下，目前各大超市的卫生用品、意大利面、面包、午餐肉甚至是花生米都出现了断货。
Source: Daily Mirror, encouraged by officials, is now running out of groceries, pasta, bread, lunch meat and even peanut rice in major supermarkets.
据笔者了解，其中最为抢手的消毒液及免洗洗手液在亚马逊等平台和社交网络已经被炒至100欧元/瓶。
According to the author, one of the most popular disinfectant and wash-free hand sanitizer platforms and social networks in Amazon has been fried to 100 euros / bottle.
而个人卖家几乎带着东亚姓氏。
The individual seller carries almost an East Asian surname.
德国连锁超市Rewe的售货员同样告诉笔者：“所有东西都在被抢购，无法理解。
"Everything is being snapped up and cannot be understood," the salesman at Rewe, a German supermarket chain, told me.
”虽然该员工承诺将尽快补齐货架，但Rewe仍于3月2日夜间以防止物价上涨为由取消了意面供应商Barilla的所有订单。
Rewe cancelled all orders from Barilla, the spaghetti supplier, on the night of March 2 to prevent price increases, although the employee promised to fill shelves as soon as possible.
Rewe超市中的意大利面柜台出现了大面积缺货。
The spaghetti counter in the Rewe supermarket was out of stock on a large scale.
拍摄：陈英END点击图片查看相关内容未经授权 禁止转载。
Photo: Chen Ying END click on the picture to view the relevant content is not authorized to reproduce.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
欧洲口罩遭疯抢，可大街上却没人戴。
European masks were ravened, but no one wore them on the streets.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "欧洲口罩遭疯抢，可大街上却没人戴";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & #
var msg_desc = "笔者尝试戴上口罩，但很快引起周遭人群窃窃私语。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; I tried wearing a mask, but quickly got a buzz from the crowd.
由于德国出现过乘客向列车员“举报”有疑似病例而逼停整列高铁的先例，笔者最终选择放弃继续佩戴口罩。
Due to the precedent of passengers "reporting" suspected cases to the conductor and forcing them to stop wearing the entire train, I finally chose to give up wearing masks.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '为何欧洲国家仍不建议民众戴口罩？',。
Why is it that European countries still don't recommend wearing masks?
subject_name: '界面新闻',。
Subject _ name: & apos; interface news & amp; apos;;,
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
