口罩、额温枪和酒精海外订单激增，中国这座世界工厂能出口吗？。
Will China, the world's factory, be able to export the surging orders for masks, foreheads and alcohol from overseas?
昝慧昉。
Zheng Huifang.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国记者：昝慧昉编辑：许悦“ 眼下看来，在防疫物资序列中，产能充足、有能力供应海外市场的，可能是酒精消毒液类产品。
Photograph: China Visual Correspondent: Zheng Huifang, editor: Xu Yue, At present, it seems that in the epidemic prevention material sequence, the capacity is sufficient to supply the overseas market, may be alcohol disinfectant products.
”随着新冠疫情在全球范围蔓延，防护、消杀等疫情防控物资的供应依旧紧张。
With the new crown epidemic spreading around the world, supplies of prevention and control materials such as protection and elimination remain tight.
据第一财经3月4日报道，预计全球范围内个人防护设备的供应需要将增加40％。
The global demand for personal protective equipment (PPE) is expected to increase by 40 percent.
当地时间3月3日，世界卫生组织（WHO）总干事谭德塞在日内瓦总部的新闻发布会上表示，为应对新冠疫情，WHO预计全球每月需要使用8900万个医用口罩、 7600万副检查用手套和160万副护目镜。
In response to the new crown outbreak, the World Health Organization (WHO) estimated that 89 million medical masks, 76 million gloves and 1.6 million goggles would be needed each month to respond to the new outbreak, the World Health Organization said at a news conference at its Geneva headquarters.
作为疫情最早爆发的地区，中国对疫情防控物资的需求依然庞大，国内相关物资生产企业当下的供应重点依然是满足国内的需求。
As the earliest outbreak of the epidemic, China's demand for epidemic prevention and control materials is still large, domestic manufacturers of related materials supply focus on meeting domestic demand.
医用口罩，是此次疫情爆发后最为紧缺的疫情防控产品之一。
Medical mask is one of the most critical disease prevention and control products after the outbreak.
但随着产业链上下游企业逐渐复工，更多企业转产口罩，产能得以恢复、增长。
However, as the industrial chain upstream and downstream enterprises gradually resume work, more enterprises into production masks, capacity can be restored, growth.
3月2日，国家发改委披露，全国口罩日产能及日产量均突破1亿只，供需矛盾得到进一步缓解。
On March 2, the National Development and Reform Commission revealed that the nation's daily production capacity and output of masks exceeded 100 million, further easing the supply and demand contradictions.
即便如此，个人消费者购买医用口罩依然不是件容易事。
Even so, it is not easy for individual consumers to buy medical masks.
据界面新闻了解，目前口罩生产企业的大部分产能仍需服从国家调拨，首先保障医疗和防控疫情一线人员需求。
According to the interface news, the current mask manufacturers most of the production capacity is still subject to national allocation, first to ensure medical treatment and prevention and control of the epidemic personnel needs.
以山东日照三奇医疗卫生用品有限公司（以下简称“三奇医疗”）为例，这家自1993年开始生产口罩的企业，口罩单品产业及技术水平在国际上位居行业前列，过去一直以出口口罩和防护服为主要业务，在抗击SARS、禽流感等疫情期间，也曾为疫区供应医疗产品。
Taking Rizhao Sanqi Medical Products Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "Sanqi Medical Care") as an example, this company, which started manufacturing masks in 1993, has one of the highest industries in the world.
此次新冠肺炎疫情发生后，被工信部认定为重点生产供应单位，全力供应国内市场。
After the outbreak of the new crown pneumonia, by the Ministry of Industry and Communications identified as the key production supply units, supply the domestic market.
新华社3月2日报道，目前三奇医疗的生产能力大幅提高，日产口罩从50余万只提高到150余万只，日产医用防护服从1000余套提高到5000余套。
The production capacity of Sanqi Medical Service has been greatly improved, with the number of Nissan masks increased from more than 500,000 to more than 1.5 million and Nissan's medical protection from 1,000 to more than 5,000.
该公司副总经理车进军表示，以往此时，大批产品将出口国外。
The company's deputy general manager car march said that at this time in the past, a large number of products will be exported abroad.
现如今为支持国内疫情防控，公司与外商协调处理了所有外贸订单，全力供应国内需要。
Now to support the prevention and control of the domestic epidemic, the company and foreign investors coordinated the processing of all foreign trade orders, to supply domestic needs.
工厂“人歇机不歇”，24小时满负荷生产，还紧急将海外分公司的防疫物资调往国内应急。
The factory "people shut down," 24-hour full capacity production, but also the urgent transfer of the overseas branch of the epidemic prevention materials to domestic emergency.
一位不愿具名的业内人士告诉界面新闻，目前市场上流通的口罩货源非常有限，大部分企业的产能要服从国家调配。
An anonymous insider told Interface News that the current market is very limited supply of surgical masks, most of the production capacity of enterprises to be subject to national deployment.
虽然疫情发生后，新建了不少口罩厂，也有许多企业转产做口罩，但上游供应商能产出的医用口罩的核心原料——熔喷布供给不足，不少口罩厂处于“无米下锅”的境地。
Although a number of new mask factories have been built since the outbreak, and many companies have switched to masks, the core ingredient in the medical masks produced by upstream suppliers is in short supply and many mask factories are in a "no-rice-pot" situation.
另一大疫情防控物资红外线测温仪的供应也非常紧张。
Another major disease control material infrared thermometer supplies are also very tight.
此前《上海证券报》曾报道红外热成像体温检测设备生产商大立科技的海外订单近期快速上升，但相较于大立科技生产的大型红外热成像体温检测设备，手持式测温设备（耳温枪、额温枪）的市场缺口更大。
Earlier, the Shanghai Securities Journal reported a recent surge in overseas orders for DL, a maker of infrared thermal imaging equipment, but a bigger gap in the market for hand-held thermostats (ear-temperature guns, frontal-temperature guns) than the large-scale infrared thermal imaging thermography equipment produced by DL Technology.
来自赛迪顾问医药健康产业研究中心的统计数据显示，2019年前国内手持红外体温计的产量一直在20万把至30万把之间，整体市场规模并不大。
Domestic production of hand-held infrared thermometers has been between 200,000 and 300,000 units until 2019, according to the Saidi consultant's Center for Medical and Health Industry Research.
而2020年新冠肺炎疫情暴发后，额温枪订单突然剧增，出现“一枪难求”的局面。
After the outbreak of the new crown pneumonia in 2020, orders for frontal temperature guns suddenly shot up sharply, resulting in a "one shot at a time."
根据工信部今年2月初披露的数据，手持式红外测温仪的市场缺口约达55万把。
According to data released by the ministry in early February, the market for hand-held infrared thermometers is about 550,000 units.
界面新闻在采访中发现，手持式测温设备相关企业目前的产品供应也都以国内市场为主。
Interface news in the interview found that the hand-held temperature measurement equipment related enterprises are currently the main product supply to the domestic market.
鱼跃医疗、九安医疗都是目前中国最主要的红外线测温仪生产企业，界面新闻在投资者互动关系平台上看到，这两家公司在回复投资者关于海外市场供应相关问题时，均表示目前产品供不应求，主要保障国内疫情一线需求。
In response to questions from investors about supply in overseas markets, the two companies have said they are in short supply, mainly to safeguard the first-line demand for the disease.
九安医疗方面表示：据其在公开市场得到的信息，中国能够大批量生产电子体温计的厂家含九安在内不超过3家，能大规模提产的也不多。
According to information available on the open market, no more than three manufacturers in China are capable of mass-producing electronic thermometers, and not many can be mass-produced, says Jiuan Medical.
目前看，而问及需求依然存在缺口，虽然公司而问及日产能已突破1万台，还是根本满足不了整体需求，公司正在积极购买生产相关设备扩大产能，计划三月上旬达到日产能1.5万台。
Now, when asked about the remaining shortfall in demand, and although the company asked if it had more than 10,000 units a day, it simply couldn't meet the overall demand, the company is actively buying production-related equipment to expand capacity, with a planned capacity of 15,000 units in early March.
虽然我们一直收到来自日本、韩国、意大利、法国、美国、德国等地的询单，但作为一家中国公司，将优先保障国内公共卫生防疫需求。
Although we have been receiving enquiries from Japan, South Korea, Italy, France, the United States, Germany and other places, as a Chinese company, priority will be given to domestic public health and epidemic prevention needs.
如果国内疫情好转，将在优先国内公共卫生防疫需求的前提下，考虑向国外地区提供额温枪及相关领域医疗器械。
If the domestic epidemic improves, consideration will be given to supplying foreign regions with frontal-temperature guns and related medical devices, provided that priority is given to domestic public health and epidemic prevention needs.
界面新闻致电红外线测温仪的大型生产商优利德科技（中国）股份有限公司，得知由于上游配套生产商零部件供应不足该，该公司红外线测温仪从1月份开始断货，目前已无法接单。
Interface News called infrared thermometer giant Youlide Technology (China) Co., Ltd., learned that the company's infrared thermometer had been out of stock since January due to a lack of spare parts for the upstream ancillary manufacturers.
眼下看来，在防疫物资序列中产能充足，有能力供应海外市场的，可能是酒精消毒液类产品。
At present, it appears that in the epidemic prevention material in sufficient production capacity, the ability to supply overseas markets, may be alcohol disinfectant products.
据《证券日报》日前报道，中国酒精产能最高的生产企业、国投生物科技投资有限公司（下称“国投生物”）已签署了出口意向订单约100吨。
China's largest producer of ethanol production capacity, the state-invested biotech company, has signed an export offer of about 100 tons, the Securities Daily reported yesterday.
国投集团首席科学家、国投生物董事长岳国君在接受《证券日报》采访时表示，“中国是全球酒精第二大生产国，保障酒精消毒液供应，生产能力不是问题，完全可以放心。
"China is the second-largest producer of alcohol in the world and production capacity is not a problem," Yue Guojun, chief scientist and chairman of CIC Biology, told the Securities Daily.
此前酒精消毒液之所以一度出现区域性断货、供不应求的现象，主要还是因为疫情发生后，对酒精消毒液的需求量一下子提升太快，加上正好赶上春节，很多生产厂家放假，并且物流受阻，导致一时间市场突然出现供需缺口。
The reason why alcohol disinfectant was once out of stock and in short supply is mainly due to the sudden increase in demand for alcohol disinfectant after the outbreak of the epidemic, coupled with the spring festival, the holiday of many manufacturers and logistical obstacles, resulting in a sudden gap between supply and demand.
”据他介绍，中国酒精总产能达到1500万吨/年左右，可用于生产酒精消毒液的产能规模约为900万吨/年。
With a total production capacity of about 15m tonnes / year, the capacity to produce alcohol is about 9m tonnes / year, he said.
其中，国投生物酒精年产能达160万吨，为国内最大。
Among them, the national production capacity of bioethanol reached 1.6 million tons, the largest in China.
目前国投生物旗下位于吉林省梅河口市、吉林市、榆树市，辽宁省铁岭市，广东省湛江市的五个酒精生产基地已快速转产出符合国家标准的酒精消毒液，已实现日产酒精消毒液2000吨的供应能力，根据市场需求供应能力还可进一步提升。
At present, five alcohol production bases in Meichou City, Jilin City, Yushu City in Jilin Province, Tieling City in Liaoning Province and Zhanjiang City in Guangdong Province have rapidly converted alcohol disinfectant to national standard.
关于海外订单，国投生物方面也对界面新闻表示，“因为产能不成问题，所以能同时兼顾国内和海外市场”。
On overseas orders, China's biological side also told the interface news, "because production capacity is not a problem, so that both the domestic and overseas markets."
但也并非所有酒精生产企业都已开始向海外市场供货。
But not all alcohol producers have started to supply overseas markets.
中粮集团旗下中粮生物科技股份有限公司（下称“中粮生物”）是国内主要酒精供应商之一，公司目前产能可超过1000吨/天。
China Foodstuffs Biotech Co., Ltd. is one of the country's main suppliers of alcohol, and the company can now produce more than 1,000 tonnes per day.
界面新闻记者以经销商身份联系了中粮生物，后者表示目前暂不承接海外订单。
Interface journalists contacted Cocoa as a distributor, who said it would not accept overseas orders for the time being.
界面新闻从生产酒精、防护服的山东威高集团获得的消息是，该集团生产的防疫物资目前仍需服从国家统一调拨，不对市场供应也不接海外订单。
Interface News reports from Shandong Weigao Group, which produces alcohol and protective clothing, that the group's epidemic prevention products are still subject to unified state allocation and do not supply to the market or take orders from overseas.
工信部日前披露，2月20日，84消毒液、免洗手消液和酒精等主要消杀产品的日产量较1月底分别提高了207%、151%和270%，从总量上看，前期供需矛盾已明显得到缓解。
On Feb. 20, the daily output of major disinfection products such as disinfectant, hands-free disinfectant and alcohol increased by 207%, 151% and 270%, respectively, compared with the end of January.
以酒精为例，随着酒精企业陆续复工，以及部分原粮食酒厂、化学厂转产，局部地区甚至出现了供过于求的现象，部分企业由于库存较多已经开始降低生产负荷。
In the case of alcohol, for example, with the resumption of work by alcohol enterprises, as well as the conversion of some former grain distillers and chemical factories, there has even been an oversupply in some areas.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
口罩、额温枪和酒精海外订单激增，中国这座世界工厂能出口吗？。
Will China, the world's factory, be able to export the surging orders for masks, foreheads and alcohol from overseas?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "口罩、额温枪和酒精海外订单激增，中国这座世界工厂能出口吗？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Can China's world factory export?
var msg_desc = "眼下看来，在防疫物资序列中，产能充足、有能力供应海外市场的，可能是酒精消毒液类产品。
var msg _ desc = & quot; at the moment, it appears that products with sufficient production capacity and the ability to supply overseas markets may have been disinfectant products in the epidemiological profile.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
