香港四大核心商区空置商铺半年激增近一倍，尖沙咀最惨。
Vacant shops in Hong Kong's four core business districts have nearly doubled in half a year, with Tsim Sha Tsui at its worst.
卢奕贝。
LU Yick Pui.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
1月31日大年初七，奢侈品门店云集的尖沙咀广东道上行人稀少。
January 31, the seventh day of the year, luxury stores crowded Guangdong Road Tsim Sha Tsui pedestrians are scarce.
来源：美联工商铺记者：卢奕贝编辑：昝慧昉“ 疫情对香港商业的打击开始集中显现。
www.youtheme.cn www.youtheme.cn www.youtheme.cn www.youtheme.cn www.youtheme.cnYouTheme (wwwyoutheme.cn) www.youtheme.cnYouTheme (wwwyoutheme.com)
”3月3日，美联工商铺资料研究部发布了最新的香港核心区商户调查报告，今年1、2月份香港四大核心购物区尖沙嘴、旺角、铜锣湾及中环，空置商铺数量由去年9月的482家，在半年后急升43%至689家，空置率达9.2%。
On March 3, the Information and Research Department of the US Federation of Commerce, Industry and Commerce released the latest survey of merchants in Hong Kong's core shopping districts of Tsim Sha Tsui, Mong Kok, Causeway Bay and Central in January and February this year.
是该公司自2016年有统计以来的新高。
It is the company's highest level since 2016, when statistics became available.
香港的四大核心商区中，尖沙咀是商铺空置率增幅最大的区域。
Tsim Sha Tsui, one of the four core business districts in Hong Kong, registered the largest increase in vacancy rates.
新春期间，奢侈品门店云集的尖沙咀广东道上行人稀少，这在2003年SARS疫情后已属罕见。
During the New Year, there were few pedestrians on the Canton Road in Tsim Sha Tsui, which was a rarity after the SARS epidemic in 2003.
在美联工商铺过去5年的统计当中，广东道和海防道有三年都没有任何空置街边商铺，表现较为逊色的2017年第三季也只录得两家空置。
In the past five years, Guangdong Road and Haiphong Road had not had any vacant street shops for three years, and the weaker third quarter of 2017 also recorded only two vacancies.
但这个春节，这里已经有了4家空铺。
But this Spring Festival, there have been 4 empty shops here.
同样位处广东道附近、香港最大的购物中心海港城，在2月初也有许多场内商铺闭店暂停营业，其中围上装修板的门面更多达24个。
The Harbour City, Hong Kong's largest shopping centre near Canton Road, was also closed in early February with up to 24 upholstered facades.
尖沙咀区域商铺空置率，由2019年第三季的6.8%急升至10.9%，空置商铺数量高达167间。
The vacancy rate in Tsim Sha Tsui increased sharply from 6.8% in the third quarter of 2019 to 10.9%, with 167 vacant shops.
与尖沙咀隔海相望的铜锣湾也境况惨淡。
Causeway Bay, across the sea from Tsim Sha Tsui, is also in dire straits.
铜锣湾租金的高昂举世闻名，房地产服务商戴德梁行的一份报告显示，铜锣湾罗素街每平方英尺（约合0.09平方米）租金为2800美元（约合人民币1.68万元），价格超过纽约第五大道，是世界上租金最贵的购物街。
Causeway Bay is the most expensive shopping street in the world, with $2,800 (16,800 yuan) per square foot (about 16,800 yuan) per square foot, the most expensive shopping street in the world, according to a report by De Leung, a property service provider.
此前界面新闻曾报道过，Louis Vuitton铜锣湾时代广场分店、Prada铜锣湾Plaza 2000的店铺都曾因受社会事件影响游客数量暴跌，且扛不住高昂租金而选择关闭。
As previously reported in the Interface News, shops in Times Square in Louis Vuitton Causeway Bay and Plaza 2000 in Prada Causeway Bay have all closed down because of social events and because they cannot afford to pay high rents.
在新冠肺炎疫情来袭的此时，铜锣湾200平方尺（约22平方米）的街铺仍然可以卖1亿港币的高价。
The 200-square-foot (22-square-meter) street in Causeway Bay can still fetch up to HK $100 million at the time of the outbreak.
美联工商铺网站截图。
US Federation of Commerce and Industry website screenshot.
去年的风波还未消化，新冠疫情又雪上加霜，没有游客、租金高昂逼走了许多商户，令铜锣湾的商铺空置率高企。
Last year's turmoil, compounded by the new crown, has driven many merchants away without tourists and high rents, leading to high vacancy rates in Causeway Bay.
根据美联工商铺统计，该区域的1094家街铺中，有133家空置，空置率由去年第三季的9.4%上升至12.2%，这也是四大核心商业区中的空置率之冠。
The vacancy rate rose from 9.4 percent in the third quarter of last year to 12.2 percent, the highest vacancy rate among the four core business districts, according to the US-based Federation of Commerce and Industry.
而在其他核心商区，除旅客减少影响商铺生意外，本地市民外出消费意愿下降也令食肆及零售商户面临困境。
In the other core business districts, apart from the reduction in visitor arrivals, the decline in the willingness of local residents to go out to spend has also put restaurants and retailers in a difficult position.
中环一直是香港中产、外籍人士及游客最喜爱的美食、酒吧天堂，自去年6月开始，这里的生意日渐萧条。
Central has long been a favorite gourmet and bar paradise for middle-class, expatriates and tourists in Hong Kong, where business has been languishing since June.
2019年第三季，食肆、酒吧云集的兰桂坊、威灵顿街及苏豪区的空置商铺已有41家，到今年1、2月份，中环美食酒吧街的空置商铺急升至64家，空置率高达18.8%。
In the third quarter of 2019, 41 vacant shops have been set up in restaurants, bars, Wellington Street and Soho. By January and February this year, the number of vacant shops in Central Food and Bar Street had risen sharply to 64, representing a vacancy rate of 18.8%.
综合来看，饮食及与游客相关的行业是此次受灾最严重的。
Taken together, the food and tourist-related industries were the hardest hit.
餐饮店铺结业半年间净减62家，服装类则减少49家，游客相关的珠宝、药房、化妆品商户数也有双位数跌幅。
There was a net reduction of 62 restaurants and 49 clothing stores over the six-month period, as well as double-digit declines in the number of tourist-related jewellery, pharmacies and cosmetics businesses.
本地消费方面，如美容及理发店铺则逆市上升，半年增加19家，主要因租金下跌令楼上铺商户转租街铺。
Local consumption, such as beauty salons and barber shops, rose against the market, with an increase of 19 a year, mainly due to the fall in rents, which caused shopkeepers upstairs to sublet their shops.
美联工商铺董事卢展豪分析称，目前香港铺市已进入超大型调整期，随著零售企业出现倒闭潮及裁员潮，预期第三季核心区整体空置率将升至11.5%至12.5%，空置店铺数目将上升至900个。
A spokesman for the Commerce, Industry and Technology Bureau said the number of vacant shops in the third quarter was expected to rise to 11.5% to 12.5%, while the number of vacant shops would rise to 900 as retail companies went bankrupt and layoffs occurred.
租金方面，他预计全年核心区租售价会跌约40%，非核心区亦会跌10至15%。
He predicted that the annual core district rental price would fall by about 40 per cent and the non-core area by 10 to 15 per cent.
目前不少业主已分阶段减租，但这对商户的帮助仅为“吊盐水”（形容杯水车薪），因生意大减，他们对零售前景失去信心，部分只愿意续短租，欠租情况也较严重。
Many owners have reduced their rents in stages, but the help is only "saltwater," which means they have lost confidence in retail prospects as a result of the collapse in business. Some are willing to renew only short-term leases and rent arrears are high.
美联工商铺行政总裁黄汉成则认为，目前情况较SARS时期更差，疫情过后，长远也难以看到刺激经济的诱因，对铺市前景悲观，认为未来2至3年租售价会继续拾级而下，或重返2003年SARS时水平。
Wong Hon-sing, chief executive of USB, said the situation was worse than during the SARS period. After the outbreak, it was difficult to see the long-term incentive to stimulate the economy. He was pessimistic about the outlook for the market and thought that the next two to three years would continue to go down the river or return to 2003 SARS levels.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
香港四大核心商区空置商铺半年激增近一倍，尖沙咀最惨。
Vacant shops in Hong Kong's four core business districts have nearly doubled in half a year, with Tsim Sha Tsui at its worst.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "香港四大核心商区空置商铺半年激增近一倍，尖沙咀最惨";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; in Tsim Sha Tsui.
var msg_desc = "疫情对香港商业的打击开始集中显现。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; The epidemic's impact on business in Hong Kong has begun to bite.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
