科学家研究发现新冠病毒已突变出2个亚型，传播力有差异。
Scientists have discovered that the new crown virus has mutated into two subtypes with different transmission forces.
金淼​。
Jin Miao Zheng.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：海洛创意记者：金淼“ 作者发现新冠病毒已经演化出L和S两个亚型，这两个亚型在地域分布以及人群中的比例相距甚远。
Source: Hailo Creative Journalist: Jin Miao, "The authors found that the new canopy virus has evolved into two subtypes, L and S, which vary greatly in geographic distribution and population size.
”3月3日，《国家科学评论》发表《关于SARS-CoV-2的起源和持续进化》一文。
On March 3, the National Scientific Review published The Origin and Continuing Evolution of SARS-CoV-2.
论文通讯作者为陆剑研究员（北京大学生命科学学院生物信息中心）、崔杰研究员（中国科学院上海巴斯德研究所）。
The authors of the thesis are Lu Jian Researcher (Bioinformatics Center of Beijing University School of Life Sciences) and Cui Jie Researcher (Shanghai Pasteur Institute of Chinese Academy of Sciences).
文章通过迄今为止最大规模的新冠病毒全基因组分子进化分析，揭示了新冠病毒已经演化出L和S两个亚型，这两个亚型在地域分布以及人群中的比例相距甚远。
Through the largest genome-wide molecular evolution analysis of the new crown virus so far, the paper reveals that the new crown virus has evolved into two subtypes, L and S, which are widely distributed geographically and proportionally among populations.
根据新型冠状病毒的演变方式，作者推测这两种亚型的传播能力、致病严重程度或许存在较大区别。
According to the evolution of the new coronavirus, the authors speculate that the transmission ability and severity of the two subtypes may be quite different.
两个亚型的区别在于病毒RNA基因组的第28144位点，L型是T碱基（对应亮氨酸，Leu），S型是C碱基（对应丝氨酸，Ser）。
The difference between the two subtypes is the 28144 locus of the viral RNA genome, L-bases (corresponding to leucine, Leu) and S-bases (corresponding to serine, Ser).
通过与其他冠状病毒比较，作者发现S型新冠病毒与蝙蝠来源的冠状病毒在进化树上更接近，从而得出S型相对更古老的结论。
Comparing with other coronavirus, the authors found that the coronavirus from the bat was closer to the coronavirus from bat source, which leads to the conclusion that the S-shape is older.
从而得出推论：相对古老的S型新冠病毒应该产生更多的病毒株，因其有更多的时间在人群中传播。
This leads to the inference that the relatively old S-type Newcap virus should produce more virus strains because it has more time to spread through the population.
但基因组数据表明L型占70%，S型占30%，且每个L型病毒株比S型携带了相对较多的新生突变。
However, genome data indicate that L-type is 70% and S-type 30%, and that each L-strain carries relatively more new mutations than S-type.
作者分析了为什么相对年轻的L型新冠病毒却产生了更多的病毒株，作者推测L型病毒传播能力更强，或者在人体内复制更快，因此可能意味着其毒力也更大。
The authors analyzed why the relatively young L-type Newcap virus produced more virus strains, and speculated that the L-virus was more able to spread or replicate faster in humans, thus possibly implying greater virulence.
另外，作者发现绝大多处患者体内提取的病毒株表明其只感染了L型或S型中的一个病毒亚型。
In addition, the authors found that virus strains in most patients showed that they were infected with only one virus subtype in type L or S.
L亚型在武汉暴发的早期阶段更为普遍，但由于强力的人为干预，L亚型的发生频率在2020年1月初后有所下降。
L-subtypes were more common in the early stages of the Wuhan outbreak, but the frequency of L subtypes declined after the beginning of January 2020 due to strong human intervention.
不过，一名确诊前有过武汉旅行史的一位美国患者分离的病毒株，却预示其可能发生了同时感染了L型和S型新冠病毒的情况（但目前还无法排除新突变型的可能性）。
However, a strain of virus isolated from an American patient with a history of travel to Wuhan prior to diagnosis foreshadows possible co-infection with both the L-type and S-type new crown viruses (although the possibility of new mutations cannot be ruled out).
作者在文章中表示，后续工作需要扩大样本量，以验证这些结论或推测。
In his article, the authors suggest that follow-up work needs to expand the sample size to validate these conclusions or speculations.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
科学家研究发现新冠病毒已突变出2个亚型，传播力有差异。
Scientists have discovered that the new crown virus has mutated into two subtypes with different transmission forces.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "科学家研究发现新冠病毒已突变出2个亚型，传播力有差异";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Scientists have found that the new crown virus has mutated to two subtypes, with a differential transmission rate at & quot;;
var msg_desc = "作者发现新冠病毒已经演化出L和S两个亚型，这两个亚型在地域分布以及人群中的比例相距甚远。
var msg _ desc = & quot; The authors found that the new crown virus has evolved into L and S subtypes that vary widely in geographic distribution and in proportion to population.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
