深圳复工抢人大战：时薪加5块，速度要快。
Shenzhen resumption of workers rob war: hourly wage plus 5, speed to be fast.
徐诗琪。
Xu Shiqi.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：unsplash记者：徐诗琪编辑：林腾“ “这是我十几年来看过最缺人的一次！””“之前每小时19块，现在24块，每个月我能多赚1300块，拼了。
This is the most missing person I've seen in more than a decade! Before that, it was 19 dollars an hour, now it's 24 dollars, and every month I can earn an extra 1,300 bucks
”2月27日晚上，29岁的王久拎上书包，坐上了前往深圳罗湖的火车。
On the night of February 27, Wang, 29, grabbed his schoolbag and boarded the train to Shenzhen's Luohu.
王久来自江西赣州，几个小时之后，他将在深圳福田参加一场联想工厂的面试，成功之后可能被安排到联想的电脑、服务器、手机的组装、包装的流水线上工作。
A few hours later, Mr. Wang, from Ganzhou, Jiangxi, will attend an interview at Lenovo factory in Fukuda, Shenzhen, where he could be placed on the assembly line of Lenovo's computers, servers, mobile phones and packaging.
联想开出了每小时24块的“高薪”诱惑工人们的到来。
Lenovo offered a "high salary" of $24 an hour to lure workers.
时薪比以前多了5块钱，涨幅26%，这是几年来联想工厂薪水的巅峰了。
The hourly wage was $5, or 26%, more than before, the peak of Lenovo factory salaries in years.
去年开工的时候，火车票已经一票难求。
When work began last year, train tickets were already unavailable.
但如今在“新冠”疫情的影响之下，王久乘坐的K115次列车上的乘客聊聊无几，车站也空荡荡。
But now, under the influence of the New Crown, passengers on the K115 train in which Wang Ju traveled had little conversation and the station was empty.
王久不知道，像他这样决定冒险“南下”的普通流水线工人，如今已经成为了深圳各大企业争相抢夺的对象。
Wang did not know that, like him decided to take the risk of "southward" ordinary pipeline workers, has become the major enterprises in Shenzhen competing for the object.
“紧急通知，连夜涨价！”一家工厂在招工信息上打上了这样的标题。
"Emergency notice, night price rise!" A factory put such a title on job information.
深圳工厂的确太缺人了。
Shenzhen factory is really too short of people.
尽管政府与企业都使出了浑身解数，包车、包专列、甚至包飞机接送员工返深，但仍然缓解不了工厂的燃眉之急。
Despite the best efforts of the government and companies, charters, packages, and even chartering planes to take employees back to the depths, they still do not meet the immediate needs of the factory.
因为其他地区交通管制依旧严格，内地人员外出需要开具证明，而已到深圳的人又面临着不短的隔离时间。
Because traffic control in other areas is still strict, mainland personnel need to issue certificates, people who have been to Shenzhen face not short isolation time.
界面新闻了解到，富士康深圳的工厂里面的人不到以前的一半，也因产能不足已经导致了新iPhone的发布延迟。
Interface News understands that less than half of Foxconn's Shenzhen plants are home to less than half as many people, and that lack of capacity has delayed the launch of the new iPhone.
几个比亚迪厂区，合计人员缺口达到2000多。
Several BYD factories, the total personnel gap reached more than 2,000.
联想深圳工厂一天内至少面试了600人。
Lenovo's Shenzhen plant interviewed at least 600 people a day.
联想招工现场。
Lenovo job site.
图片：受访者提供人员无法流动，新人又补不满旧窟窿，在制造业发达的深圳，从事最基础工作的工人群体突然成了稀缺物种。
Photo: Interviewees are unable to move and newcomers are discontented with old holes. In Shenzhen, a manufacturing powerhouse, the most basic group of workers suddenly becomes a scarce species.
抢人大战也随之一触即发。
The Great War of Robbery followed.
界面新闻了解到，OPPO发起“春风行动”，向员工聚集的七个地市派出免费专车，接员工回工业园，并提高基本工资与加班补贴以招聘新工人。
Interface News understands that OPPO launched "Operation Spring Wind," sending free cars to seven cities where employees congregate, taking staff back to industrial parks and increasing basic wages and overtime allowances to recruit new workers.
立讯精密开通了两条免费专列高铁，每天2班，每班500，同时对内推入职的员工每月奖励上千元。
The company has opened two toll-free high-speed rail lines, two shifts of 500 a day, with a monthly bonus of thousands of yuan for inbound employees.
创维也大力宣传其内推活动，对推荐人奖励最高1500元，被推荐人最高1200元。
Chuang Wei also vigorously propagandizes its internal activities, rewarding the referees up to 1,500 yuan and the highest referees 1200 yuan.
代理工人招募的深圳市新路程人力资源负责人胡先生甚至对界面新闻感叹：“这是我十几年来看过最缺人的一次！”推荐入职就奖7000块缺人的困境，富士康首当其冲。
"This is the most missing person I've seen in more than a decade!" Mr. Hu, head of human resources at Shenzhen's new distance agency, even lamented on the interface news: "This is the most missing person I've seen in more than a decade!"
富士康龙华和观澜厂区，这里曾经聚集着深圳最大规模的流水线工人。
Foxconn Longhua and Guanlan Factory, which used to have the largest assembly line workers in Shenzhen.
但如今，厂区大部分的餐饮娱乐设施都大门紧闭，虽然食堂依旧开门，但原先的餐桌被高高的纸板分隔成了四个小方块。
But most of the dining and entertainment facilities are now closed, and although the cafeteria remains open, the original dining room is divided into four small squares separated by high cardboard.
厂里对员工们建议：不交谈、快速就餐。
The factory advises employees not to talk and eat quickly.
复工后的富士康食堂。
Foxconn canteen after the resumption of work.
图片：受访者提供厂区内大部分餐厅未开门。
Photo: Most of the restaurants in the factory area are closed.
图片：受访者提供“厂里面的人不到以前的一半吧。
Photo: Respondents offered "less than half as many people as before."
”富士康工人周星对界面新闻记者说。
Foxconn worker Zhou Xing told the interface reporter.
他所在的GIS事业群（业成光电）负责苹果某产品的屏幕测试，车间里原先有5条流水线，现在只能开动3条。
His GIS business group, called Photovoltaic, runs a screen test on an Apple product, and can now run only three of the five assembly lines that used to run in the plant.
据周星介绍，因为有部分员工在假期留守，富士康其实一直没有停过工，只在春节期间放了四天假。
According to Zhou Xing, because some of the staff stay on holiday, Foxconn has not stopped work, only during the Spring Festival during the four-day holiday.
疫情来袭，富士康还加开了口罩产线，部分员工被分配去生产口罩。
Foxconn also opened the mask production line, some of the staff were assigned to the production of masks.
《财新》的报道曾经提到，富士康深圳园区共18万人，春节期间留守2万人，当时预计只有5.7万员工能在10号以前返回深圳。
The report said only 57,000 employees were expected to return to Shenzhen by the 10th, leaving 180,000 at the Foxconn complex and 20,000 at the Spring Festival.
为了应对巨大的人员缺口，富士康双管齐下：一边对老员工进行分三批次的有序复工，另一边，通过高价的内部推荐，奖励招募新工人。
To cope with the huge staffing gap, Foxconn has been working in three orderly batches of older workers, while at the same time rewarding new workers with high-priced internal recommendations.
“推荐入职就奖7710元，这是龙华富士康有史以来最高的奖金了。
"The recommended entry award was 7710 yuan, the highest prize ever paid by Lung Wah Foxconn.
”界面新闻记者以求职者身份咨询一位富士康招募中心的唐先生，他热情地回复。
Interviewer asks Tang, a Foxconn recruiter, for an interview as a job seeker, and he responds enthusiastically.
2月21日，富士康内部招聘软件“我要聘”发布信息显示，IDPBG（数位产品事业群）龙华厂区需求人数7000人，观澜厂区20000人，需求逼近三万人。
On Feb. 21, Foxconn's internal recruiting software, "I Want to Hire," released information showing that IDPBG (Digital Products Group) Longhua factory area demand 7,000 people, Guanlan factory area 20,000 people, demand close to 30,000.
IDPBG针对内部推荐的新员工和离职返聘员工，对每人奖励6750元，加上360元的新人入职奖，最高可以拿7710元奖励。
IDPBG rewards each employee with $6,750 plus a 360-yuan entry bonus of up to $7,710 for new hires and rehired employees leaving the company.
内部推荐一直是目前富士康等工厂主要的吸引招工手段。
Internal referral has been the main attraction of Foxconn and other factories at present.
工厂的基础工资往往只达到最低工资标准2300元左右，工人们想增加收入，靠的就是加班或者就是想办法去拿内部推荐的奖金。
Factory salaries are often as low as 2,300 yuan, and workers are trying to increase their earnings by working overtime or by trying to get an internal bonus.
根据记者了解，多家工厂都采取了类似的手段。
According to the reporter's understanding, many factories have taken similar measures.
比如创维光电开出1000元内部推荐奖，拉人越多奖励越多；海德门电子开出1000元的隔离补贴；一些小厂也增加了新人入职奖金。
For example, Chuang Wei photovoltaic issued 1000 yuan internal recommendation award, the more awards more people, Hyderman Electronics issued 1000 yuan isolation subsidy; some small factories also increased the induction bonus.
在工人们的眼里，富士康算得上是一家“高薪”企业，因为福利好，工资高，甚至被他们称作“养老康”。
Foxconn is seen by workers as a "well-paid" company, with good benefits, high wages, and even what they call "old-age health."
因此，即便在疫情之下，富士康依旧让工人们趋之若鹜。
So even in the face of the epidemic, Foxconn still attracts workers.
界面新闻记者观察到，因为开出了丰厚奖金，报名人数快速地填满需求人数，每过几天，需求人数都会进行上调。
Interface journalists have observed that the number of applicants is rapidly filling up with lucrative bonuses, and that the number of people in need is adjusted upwards every few days.
“要快点报名，后面招得差不多了，奖金会减的。
"If we sign up quickly, we'll get a lot of money in the back.
”入职后推荐人也有3600元的奖励，唐先生极力邀请。
After entering the job, the referees also had a 3600 yuan award, which Mr. Tang urged.
留住临时工按照深圳工厂的规则，工人一般分为两种：长期正式工与短期临时工。
Temporary Workers Retention According to the rules of Shenzhen factories, workers generally fall into two categories: permanent regular workers and temporary short-term workers.
正式工有底薪，临时工则只算时薪。
Regular workers have a base salary, while casual workers are only paid by the hour.
大部分临时工都由中介代招，工人与中介公司签订劳务合同。
Most temporary workers are hired by intermediaries, who sign labour contracts with intermediaries.
富士康工人周星就是临时工。
Foxconn worker Zhou Xing is a temporary worker.
他今年20岁，正在读大专二年级。
He is 20 years old and is in his second year of junior college.
1月初，他来到深圳龙华富士康，打算只做三个月的临时工，中介给他开出的工资是前两个月时薪27元，后一个月21元。
At the beginning of January, he came to Longhua Foxconn in Shenzhen, intending to do only three months of temporary work, he was offered 27 yuan an hour for the first two months and 21 yuan for the following month.
一般而言，年底许多工人返回，大部分工厂又着急赶年底最后一批货，因此临时工价在春节前一般会迎来上涨。
In general, many workers returned by the end of the year and most factories were anxious to catch the last shipment by the end of the year.
春节后迎来工人回潮，临时工的工价则随之下调。
After the Spring Festival ushered in a return of workers, temporary workers were subsequently reduced wages.
但疫情之下，临时工的地位也完全改变了。
But with the epidemic, the status of temporary workers has completely changed.
工厂一般倾向于招正式工以维持稳定的生产，临时工是被逼无奈的选择。
Factories tend to hire regular workers to maintain a steady stream of production, and casual workers are forced to choose.
而今年，正式工已经招不到了，许多工厂不得不放开限制，猛招临时工“补一补”。
This year, full-time workers are no longer available, and many factories have had to loosen restrictions and hire temporary workers to "fill in the blanks."
界面新闻通过中介公司了解到，现在深圳工厂临时工的往年工价在20以内，16-18元为主，现在已经上涨至22左右。
Interface news through intermediary companies, the factory workers in Shenzhen now pay less than 20 yuan, 16-18 yuan, has now risen to about 22.
而在富士康，临时工工价已经涨到了30元。
In Foxconn, the price of casual workers has risen to 30 yuan.
整体涨幅逼近50%。
Overall gains were close to 50 per cent.
周星在3月初的一个晚上收到工作群信息，原先每小时21元的工价被调升到25元，如果能留任至5月，还能涨到27。
Zhou Xing received a group message one night in early March, and his original hourly wage of $21 was raised to $25, rising to 27 if he stayed in office until May.
他表示，收到消息以后，身边许多人都将已经写好的辞职表又拿了回来。
After receiving the news, he said, many people around him had brought back the resignation forms they had written.
不仅如此，连年龄的限制也被打开。
Not only that, but the age limit has been opened.
在工厂默认的规则中，18-40岁是通常的招工年龄区间，但在今年，大部分工厂将年龄上限调到了45岁甚至50岁。
In the factory default rule, 18-40 is the usual employment age range, but this year most factories have adjusted the age limit to 45 or even 50.
界面新闻记者致电一位创维光电的招工负责人，询问47岁是否能入厂，他回应道：“47年纪有点大了，可能41、42还可以。
An interface reporter called a job recruiter for Chuangwei Optoelectronics and asked if he would be admitted to the factory at age 47. He replied, "I'm a bit old, maybe 41, 42.
”另外，严格的隔离限制也随着复工潮来临、疫情得到控制而渐渐被放宽。
In addition, strict quarantine restrictions have gradually been relaxed with the arrival of a return to work and containment of the epidemic.
以富士康为例，2月21号其发出的招募流程中显示，隔离天数要求14天，需要先住宿舍隔离，后核酸检测，最后才能面试、入职。
In Foxconn, for example, the recruitment process it issued on February 21 showed that days of isolation required 14 days of isolation, followed by nucleic acid testing, before interviewing and entering the job market.
日前，这一要求改为不需要再重复隔离，抵深2天即可安排面试，通过通讯商确认14天内行程轨迹（不在重点疫区）后，核酸检测通过即可入职。
Recently, the request was changed to no longer need to repeat isolation, two days deep can be arranged for interviews, through the communicator confirmed that the 14-day itinerary (not in the key affected areas), nucleic acid testing passed the induction.
富士康面试排队现场 。
Foxconn Interview Queuing.
图片：受访者提供界面新闻联系多家中介与厂招人士了解到的情况是，有部分厂仍需隔离，时长3-14天不等；而有技术能力的厂，则可以通过通讯商定位等大数据手段查询行程，免去重复隔离手续，到厂当天就能上班。
Photo: Interface News Links: Interface News Connection Intermediaries and factory recruiters understand that some factories still need to be isolated for periods ranging from 3 to 14 days, while those with technical capabilities can check their itineraries by using big data such as location of communicators so that they do not have to repeat isolation procedures to get to work on the same day.
中介最繁忙的时刻“今年工厂那边的需求增长了至少30%。
"Demand from the factory side has grown by at least 30 per cent this year.
”深圳市新路程人力资源市场（下称新路程）的负责人胡先生对界面新闻说。
Mr. Hu, head of Shenzhen's New Distance Human Resources Market, told Interface News.
他所在的人力资源公司为工厂发布招聘信息，原先以线下店内招聘为主，现在主要通过线上公众号发布招聘信息。
His human-resources company, which publishes job postings for factories, previously focused on off-line in-store hiring, now posts mainly through online public numbers.
最近，每天都有200-500人通过他负责的公众号联系工作。
Recently, between 200 and 500 people have been working every day through the public number he is responsible for.
胡先生曾经在新路程服务了上百家工厂，有十多年的中介从业经验。
Mr. Hu has served hundreds of factories in the new distance and has worked as an intermediary for more than a decade.
而当下，却是他从业以来人力最紧缺的时候。
Right now, it's the time of his greatest shortage of workers.
按照他的说法，普遍工厂人员缺口在五百人左右，多的例如比亚迪缺口2000多人。
According to him, the general factory staff gap is in the 500 or so, such as more than 2,000 BYD shortfall.
中介费也在这个特殊时期应声上涨。
Intermediary fees have also risen during this particular period.
以前，中介每帮工厂招一个人收取300-500元的代理招聘费，现在这笔费用每人涨了200元。
In the past, each group of agents to recruit a person to charge 300-500 yuan recruitment fee, now the cost of each rose 200 yuan.
尽管如此，线上招聘还是困难重重。
Despite this, online recruitment has been difficult.
胡先生表示，他们通过电话与求职者预约到厂面试时间，确定合规以后，再通知求职者集中到厂。
Mr. Hu said they made phone appointments with job seekers for factory interviews, confirmed compliance, and then told them to assemble at the factory.
但许多求职者虽然锁定了入职名额，却不能保证能按时上岗，有些人还滞留在家中。
But while many job seekers have targeted entry quotas, there is no guarantee that they will be available on time, and some will stay at home.
他举了个例子，前段时间新路程为创维预约了1000人的现场面试，结果到了现场，人只来了200个。
He cited the example of a trip where 1,000 people had been booked for on-site interviews for Chuang Wei, only 200 of whom had been there.
主要原因在于，过于严格的隔离和封闭措施导致愿意回深圳打工的人回不来，也有些原在深务工的人出于担心而不愿意回来。
The main reason is that too strict isolation and closure measures lead to the return of those willing to return to Shenzhen to work, and some former deep-duty workers are reluctant to return out of fear.
胡先生认为，想解决这个问题，最快的方式就是由地方政府出面，“政府接人、政府招人。
The quickest way to solve the problem, says Mr Hu, is for local governments to step in, "to accept people and recruit people."
”事实上，深圳市政府也的确正在这样做。
Indeed, the Shenzhen Municipal Government is doing the same.
据南方网报道，深圳人社局在2月积极通过专车、专列等形式接人，截至2月26日，共安全接回异地务工人员4641人。
As of February 26, 4,641 migrant workers had been safely repatriated, according to Southern China Daily.
另外，深圳人社局也在2月28日上线了“深圳市公益网络招聘月”，为期一个月，联合智联招聘、58同城、深圳人才网等大型网站进行人才招聘，提供超过3千个公司共超过4万人岗位。
In addition, the Shenzhen Municipal Public Interest Network Recruitment Month was launched on Feb. 28 for one month, offering more than 40,000 jobs to more than 3,000 companies, including recruitment by JJF, 58 Tongcheng and Shenzhen Talent Network.
部分生产、配送疫情急需物资的企业，还能够向深圳人社局申请“一次性吸纳就业补贴”，每人补贴1000元。
Some enterprises that produce and distribute urgently needed materials for the epidemic are also able to apply to the Shenzhen Municipal Social Bureau for a "one-off employment subsidy" of 1,000 yuan per person.
胡先生预计，要到4月中旬这样的用工紧缺状态才能缓解，之后会逐步恢复正常。
Mr. Hu expects such shortages to ease by mid-April and then gradually return to normal.
（应受访者要求，文中王久、周星为化名。
At the request of the interviewee, Wang Ju and Zhou Xing are aliases.
）未经授权 禁止转载。
) No reproduction is permitted.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
深圳复工抢人大战：时薪加5块，速度要快。
Shenzhen resumption of workers rob war: hourly wage plus 5, speed to be fast.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "深圳复工抢人大战：时薪加5块，速度要快";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "“这是我十几年来看过最缺人的一次！”";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "This is the most missing person I've seen in more than a decade!" & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
