新冠肺炎疫情在多国加速蔓延，专家称可考虑临时停飞。
The outbreak is accelerating in many countries, and experts say a temporary moratorium could be considered.
牛其昌。
Niu Qichang.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国记者：牛其昌“ 随着国内新增确诊病例数明显减少，多地已纷纷下调疫情应急响应等级。
Source: China Visual Correspondent: Niu Qichang "With the number of newly diagnosed cases significantly reduced, many have lowered the emergency response level of the epidemic.
但鉴于全球新冠肺炎疫情防控形势的严峻性，疾控部门已经把境外疫情评估纳入工作范畴。
However, due to the severe situation of global Crowd Pneumonia prevention and control, the CDC has included the overseas epidemic assessment into the scope of work.
”新冠肺炎疫情正在全球范围内加速蔓延，中国面临的疫情输入性风险也越来越大。
The outbreak of new crown pneumonia is accelerating globally, and China faces increasing import risks.
界面新闻注意到，近日，我国一些省份，包括浙江、北京等地已出现了境外输入性新冠肺炎病例。
Interface News noted that in recent days, some provinces in China, including Zhejiang, Beijing and other places have been imported into the new crown pneumonia.
据浙江省通报，2020年3月2日，该省新增境外（意大利）输入性确诊病例7例。
Zhejiang Province reported that on March 2, 2020, the province added a new overseas (Italy) confirmed cases of seven cases.
该7例病例与首例境外输入病例（患者王某，女，31岁，意大利华侨，2月28日回国，国内户籍为青田县瓯南街道，3月1日确诊）为密切接触者，系在意大利贝加莫同一家餐厅工作。
The 7 cases were in close contact with the first imported case (patient Wang Mou, female, 31 years old, Italian overseas Chinese, who returned home on February 28. The domestic household registration is Ounan Street of Qingtian County, confirmed March 1) are close contacts and work in the same restaurant in Bergamo, Italy.
公开信息显示，我国地方政府首次通报境外输入确诊病例发生在2月26日。
Public information shows that China's local government for the first time reported the importation of confirmed cases abroad occurred on February 26.
宁夏自治区中卫市当日发布消息称，该市发现1例境外输入型新冠肺炎病例，患者丁某，男，23岁，宁夏中卫市中宁县大战场镇人，系由伊朗回国后确诊。
The city of Zhongwei, Ningxia Autonomous Region, reported a case of imported new crown pneumonia in the city. Ding Mou, a 23-year-old man from ZhongNing County, Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region, was confirmed on his return from Iran.
2月29日，北京市报告2例自伊朗入境的新冠肺炎确诊病例，均为2月26日宁夏确诊病例丁某某在伊朗期间的密切接触者。
On February 29, Beijing reported two confirmed cases of new crown pneumonia from Iran, both close contacts while Ding was in Iran on February 26.
3月1日凌晨，深圳市也报告1例境外输入新冠肺炎确诊病例，该患者由英国回国，途经香港。
In the early morning hours of March 1, Shenzhen city also reported a confirmed case of overseas importation of New Crown Pneumonia, the patient returned from the United Kingdom through Hong Kong.
据初步了解，患者无湖北旅行史，在英国工作地点有两名同事出现咳嗽发热症状。
According to preliminary understanding, the patient did not have Hubei travel history, two colleagues in the United Kingdom workplace cough fever symptoms.
武汉大学健康学院院长、新发传染病专家于学杰在接受界面新闻采访时表示，当前务必要采取措施防止境外疫情倒灌，否则一旦松懈，将会前功尽弃。
In an interview with the Interface News, Yu Xuejie, dean of Wuhan University School of Health and an expert on emerging infectious diseases, said it was imperative to take measures to prevent the reflux of overseas epidemics.
于学杰表示，中国目前已经看到了战胜疫情的曙光，但由于其他国家采取的防控措施和力度有限，全球疫情存在潜在的“世界大流行”趋势。
Yu said that China had seen the light of day to overcome the epidemic, but there was a potential "world pandemic" trend due to the limited prevention and control measures taken by other countries.
据人民日报消息，截至北京时间3月3日12时，除中国外72个国家累已计确诊10614例新冠肺炎，累计死亡164例。
As of 12: 00 noon March 3, Beijing time, 72 countries, excluding China, had diagnosed 10,614 cases of new crown pneumonia, with a cumulative total of 164 deaths, according to the People's Daily.
由于中国新冠肺炎病例数持续下降，在过去的24小时内，中国境外新增病例数几乎是境内新增病例数的9倍。
The number of new cases outside China over the past 24 hours is almost nine times the number of new cases in China, as the number of cases continues to fall.
世卫组织总干事谭德塞表示，韩国、意大利、伊朗和日本的情况最令人担忧，韩国新冠肺炎病例数占中国境外总病例数的一半以上。
The situation is most worrying in South Korea, Italy, Iran and Japan, where the number of cases accounts for more than half of all cases outside China, according to WHO Director-General Theresa Tupper.
北京大学医学部公共卫生学院副院长王培玉对界面新闻表示，“全球大流行”并没有一个绝对的定义，但从目前全球的疫情来看，韩国、伊朗和意大利的确诊病例都已过千，所以说目前疫情处于大流行的趋势也未尝不可。
There is no absolute definition of "global pandemic," Wang Peiyu, vice-dean of Beijing University's School of Public Health, told Interface News. But given the current global epidemic, there are thousands of confirmed cases in South Korea, Iran and Italy.
“3月2日武汉新增确诊病例是111例，按照目前形势来看，只要再坚持两周左右，武汉新增确诊病例可能就会减少到个位数，这意味着疫情基本被控制住了。
"According to the current situation, with 111 new cases confirmed in Wuhan on March 2, the number of newly diagnosed cases in Wuhan could be reduced to a single digit number within two weeks or so, which means the epidemic is basically under control.
”于学杰表示，在此情况下，为防止疫情再度反复，当前防控政策有必要向防止境外疫情倒灌方面倾斜。
Yu said that under the circumstances, in order to prevent a recurrence of the epidemic, the current policy of prevention and control is necessary to prevent the reverse side of the epidemic.
王培玉指出，“中国付出了这么大的代价，做了这么多努力才降低到目前的程度，如果不对境外疫情倒灌加以重视，后果将不堪设想。
"China has paid such a high price and worked so hard to bring it down to its current level that the consequences would be unthinkable if we did not pay attention to the back-loading of the epidemic," Wang said.
”此前，随着国内新增确诊病例数明显减少，多地已纷纷下调疫情应急响应等级。
"Earlier, with the number of newly confirmed cases significantly reduced, many have lowered the emergency response level of the epidemic.
但鉴于全球新冠肺炎疫情防控形势的严峻性，疾控部门已经把境外疫情评估纳入工作范畴。
However, due to the severe situation of global Crowd Pneumonia prevention and control, the CDC has included the overseas epidemic assessment into the scope of work.
“目前还要未雨绸缪，除了评估国内复工后的风险，对国外疫情也要做出评价 。
"There is also a need to plan ahead and assess the risks of returning to work at home, as well as the situation abroad.
”中国疾控中心相关负责人对界面新闻透露，包括境外疫情对国内疫情和相关社会生活的影响，其他国家的疫情风险和应对能力，还有当地华人和中国驻外工作人员的保障措施以及中国对外援助等，目前都在中国疾控中心评估范围之内。
The CDC officials concerned told the China CDC News that the impact of the overseas outbreak on the domestic epidemic and related social life, the epidemic risk and response capacity of other countries, as well as safeguards for local Chinese and Chinese overseas staff, and China's foreign aid, are currently under review by China's CDC.
于学杰分析，由于国家体制不同等方面原因，国内一些所谓的“硬核”防控措施在其他国家难以施行，很难做到全国上下“一盘棋”。
Yu Xuejie analysis, due to different national systems and other reasons, some of the so-called "hard core" control measures in other countries is difficult to implement, it is difficult to achieve a "one size fits all."
鉴于境外一些国家防控力度和措施有限，疫情向国内倒灌的风险也存在不确定性。
Given the limited control efforts and measures in some countries outside their borders, there is also uncertainty about the risk of the epidemic reverting to domestic irrigation.
于学杰认为，有必要采取措施控制好国门，并形成常态化管理，“对于疫情特别严重的地方，可以考虑临时停飞。
Yu said it was necessary to take measures to control the country's borders and to establish normal management. "In places where the epidemic is particularly serious, temporary suspensions can be considered.
因为一旦有确诊病例输入，届时再采取措施会很被动。
Because once there is a confirmed case input, then take action will be very passive.
针对来自疫情低发地区的人员，也要加强监测和跟踪。
Monitoring and follow-up should also be strengthened for personnel from low-prevalence areas.
”王培玉认为，相比切断与疫情严重地区的航线，各地做好入境人员隔离和监测追踪工作则更加实际和重要，应该对入境人员严格采取体温检测、登记住处等措施，确保出现问题可以第一时间找到人。
Wang said it was more practical and important for countries to segregate and monitor people entering the country than to cut off routes to areas with severe epidemics.
3月1日，国务院举行联防联控机制新闻发布会，海关总署卫生检疫司司长林伟在谈及境外输入性病例防控工作时表示，海关已对所有出入境人员实施百分之百的查验健康申报，全面开展体温监测筛查，严密实施医学巡查。
On March 1, the State Council held a press conference of the Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism, and the Secretary for Health and Quarantine of the General Administration of Customs, Lin Wei, speaking on the prevention and control of imported cases from abroad, said the department had implemented 100 percent of health declaration checks for all incoming and outgoing personnel.
3月3日下午，北京市政府秘书长陈蓓在新闻发布会上表示，近期，新冠肺炎疫情在海外呈现扩散态势，部分国家疫情发展很快，形势还是很严峻。
In the afternoon of March 3, Chen Bei, the secretary-general of the Beijing Municipal Government, said at a press conference that the recent outbreak of new crown pneumonia had spread overseas.
一些海外留学生、务工人员回国意愿比较强烈。
Some overseas students and workers are more willing to return home.
近几天，仅在伊朗的中国留学生从北京口岸回国的就有20余人。
In recent days, more than 20 Chinese students have returned home from the port of Beijing alone.
对此，北京市要求，凡是从韩国、意大利、伊朗、日本等疫情严重国家经北京口岸入境的，如果目的地是北京，不论是中国人，还是外国人，都要实行14天隔离观察。
In response, Beijing has demanded 14 days of quarantine if the destination is Beijing, whether Chinese or foreign, from countries with serious epidemics such as South Korea, Italy, Iran and Japan.
3月3日，上海市政府新闻发言人徐威也表示，所有中外人员，凡是进入上海之日起，只要有重点国家或地区的旅居史，均需自我隔离14天。
On March 3, Xu Wei, a spokesman for the Shanghai municipal government, said that all Chinese and foreign personnel entering Shanghai had to isolate themselves for 14 days as long as they had a history of sojourn in key countries or regions.
此前，一些国家对中国公民采取了入境管制措施，目前中国是否会对高风险国家人员采取包括暂停颁发签证在内的限制措施？3月1日，外交部领事司司长崔爱民对此回应，根据疫情发展情况，中国地方政府将及时动态调整对外国来华人员入境后的防控措施。
On March 1, Cui Aimin, director of the Consular Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, responded to the ban on entry into China imposed by some countries on Chinese citizens.
“我们会密切关注海外疫情的发展，根据情况和形势变化，加强与有关国家的沟通协调协商，减少一些不必要的跨国旅行活动，我们希望跟外方一起努力，做好人员交流工作，保障中外人员交往和各领域交流合作不受到大的影响。
"We will closely follow the development of overseas epidemics, strengthen communication, coordination and consultation with relevant countries in light of the changing circumstances and situation, and reduce unnecessary international travel activities.
”崔爱民说。
'said Cui Aimin.
（陈鑫对本文亦有贡献）未经授权 禁止转载。
(Xin Chen also contributed to this article) Unauthorized reprinting is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
新冠肺炎疫情在多国加速蔓延，专家称可考虑临时停飞。
The outbreak is accelerating in many countries, and experts say a temporary moratorium could be considered.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "新冠肺炎疫情在多国加速蔓延，专家称可考虑临时停飞";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "随着国内新增确诊病例数明显减少，多地已纷纷下调疫情应急响应等级。
var msg _ desc = & quot; emergency response levels have been lowered as the number of newly diagnosed cases in the country has dropped significantly.
但鉴于全球新冠肺炎疫情防控形势的严峻性，疾控部门已经把境外疫情评估纳入工作范畴。
However, due to the severe situation of global Crowd Pneumonia prevention and control, the CDC has included the overseas epidemic assessment into the scope of work.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
