290人议会23人确诊！伊朗增产医疗用品，囤积走私或处极刑。
Iran increases production of medical supplies and hoards smuggling or capital punishment.
潘金花。
Pan Jinhua.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
3月2日，伊朗伊斯法罕Goltash公司的手部消毒凝胶生产线。
Hand disinfection gel production line, Goltash Corporation, Isfahan, Iran, 2 March.
图片来源：法尔斯通讯社记者 ：潘金花“ 伊朗司法部发言人称，若相关囤积走私案件被裁定涉及腐败，被告人或将面临最长20年的监禁，甚至死刑。
Source: Fars News Agency: Pan Jinhua, a spokesman for Iran's Ministry of Justice, said the defendants could face up to 20 years in jail or even the death penalty if smuggling cases are found to involve corruption.
”77例死亡、290人的议会中有23名议员确诊，伊朗的新冠肺炎疫情正愈发严峻。
With 23 MPs out of 77 dead and 290 members of parliament confirmed, Iran's new crown pneumonia is on the rise.
伊朗卫生部副部长莱西（Alireza Raisi）3月3日说，伊朗当天新增新冠肺炎病例835例，新增死亡病例11例。
Iran has 835 new cases of pneumonia and 11 new deaths, deputy health minister Alireza Raisi said March 3.
截至当地时间当天中午，伊朗累计确诊新冠肺炎病例2336例，其中435例康复，77例死亡。
By noon local time, 2,336 new cases of pneumonia had been confirmed in Iran, 435 of which had recovered and 77 had died.
据伊朗Press TV报道，伊朗最高领袖哈梅内伊当天已下令，要求军队协助卫生部抗击疫情，遏制新冠病毒的传播。
Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei has ordered the military to assist the Health Ministry in fighting the epidemic and curbing the spread of the new crown virus, Press TV reported.
据半岛电视台报道，伊朗当局正在考虑动员多达30万名士兵和志愿者。
According to Al Jazeera, Iranian authorities are considering mobilizing up to 300,000 soldiers and volunteers.
哈梅内伊说，“任何有助于公共卫生和预防疾病传播的方法都是好的，让疾病进一步传播的东西则是罪恶的。
"Any approach that contributes to public health and the prevention of the spread of disease is good," Khamenei said.
”他呼吁民众遵循卫生部门给出的建议，并敦促伊朗各部门密切合作，同时强调伊朗所有武装部队和与领导人办公室有关的单位都应加入战“疫”。
He called on people to follow the recommendations made by the health ministry and urged Iranian authorities to work closely together, while stressing that all Iranian armed forces and units associated with the leadership's office should join the battle.
哈梅内伊还表示，疫情是暂时的，还未发展到极为严重的地步，在适当的时候会得到控制，不能低估疫情，但同时也不能夸大其词。
Khamenei also said the outbreak is temporary, has not developed to a very serious point, will be controlled in due course, can not underestimate the epidemic, but at the same time cannot exaggerate.
他指出，“疫情不会持续很久，终将过去，但它带来的经验，以及民众和各个机构所做出的集体努力，将会是一大成就。
"The epidemic will not last long and will pass, but the experience it brings and the collective efforts of people and institutions will be a major achievement," he said.
”哈梅内伊同时还称赞了伊朗官员在公布疫情信息时的“透明与诚实”，并指出“在某些疫情扩散得更严重的国家，存在隐瞒的情况”。
Khamenei also praised Iranian officials for their "transparency and honesty" in releasing information about the outbreak, noting that "in some countries where the spread of the disease has been more severe, there is concealment."
但此前，鉴于伊朗政府官员接连中招以及确诊病人的高死亡率，西方媒体已多次提出质疑，怀疑伊朗政府瞒报实际感染人数。
But previously, in the light of successive moves by Iranian government officials and the high death rate among confirmed patients, Western media have repeatedly questioned whether the Iranian government has misrepresented the actual number of people infected.
俄罗斯卫星通讯社3日援引伊朗媒体的报道称，根据伊朗议会副议长梅斯里的说法，截至当天，已有23名伊朗议员的新冠病毒检测结果呈阳性，议员会见人民代表的活动也已暂时取消。
Russian satellite news agency Wednesday quoted Iranian media as saying that, according to Iran's deputy Speaker of Parliament, as of that date, 23 Iranian members of parliament have tested positive for the new crown virus, and the activities of parliamentarians to meet with representatives of the people have been suspended.
在此之前，包括伊朗驻叙利亚前大使谢赫伊斯兰、伊朗副总统埃卜特卡尔以及伊朗卫生部副部长哈里奇在内的多名伊朗官员均已确诊感染。
Prior to that, a number of Iranian officials, including Sheikh Islam, the former Iranian ambassador to Syria, Iranian Vice-President Ebtkar, and Iran's Deputy Health Minister Halic, have all been confirmed infected.
据阿拉比亚电视台（Al Arabiya）网站最新消息，伊朗紧急卫生服务部负责人克利夫兰（Pir Hossein Kolivand）3日也确诊感染了新冠病毒。
The head of Iran's emergency health service, Pir Hossein Kolivand, was also diagnosed with the new crown virus Wednesday, according to the latest news on Al Arabiya.
另据俄罗斯卫星通讯社报道，当天，伊朗司法部长的一名顾问已因新冠病毒感染去世。
Also, the Russian satellite news agency reported that the same day, Iran's Minister of Justice, a consultant has died due to the new crown virus.
上周一（24日），伊朗疫情爆发区库姆市也有议员指出，该市已有50人死于新冠肺炎，但这些死亡病例并未体现在官方公布的数据之中。
On Monday, lawmakers in Qom, an outbreak zone in Iran, said 50 people had died of pneumonia in the city, but the deaths were not reflected in official figures.
针对这些质疑声，世卫组织总干事谭德塞2日表示，世卫组织有自己的核实机制，目前暂未有证据显示伊朗隐瞒疫情的严重度，如有瞒报，将会“做出处理”。
In response to these questions, WHO Director-General Theresa Tupper said on the 2, WHO has its own verification mechanism, there is no evidence that Iran concealed the severity of the epidemic, if underreported, will "deal with.
据Press TV报道，为遏制新冠疫情扩散，伊朗已加快了消毒剂及卫生用品的生产，过去两周相关产品的产量已至少翻了一倍。
Iran has stepped up production of disinfectants and hygiene products to stem the spread of the new crown, doubling production over the past two weeks, Press TV reported.
伊朗工矿贸易部长拉赫马尼（Reza Rahmani）3日说，政府已向相关公司发放了必要的许可证，以加快洗涤剂、消毒剂及卫生用品的生产，自2月初以来，相关产品的产量已增长了一倍。
Reza Rahmani, Iran's minister of industrial and mining trade, said Wednesday that the government has issued the necessary licenses to companies to speed up the production of detergents, disinfectants and sanitation products, which have doubled since the beginning of February.
与此同时，伊朗当局也正在大力打击口罩、手套等医疗用品的走私活动。
At the same time, the Iranian authorities are vigorously combating the smuggling of medical supplies such as masks and gloves.
伊朗司法部发言人埃斯迈利（Gholam-Hossein Esmaili）3日说，在此次的打击行动中，当局已逮捕了多人，在过去一周，已有11起与囤积医疗物资有关的案件提交至法院。
Gholam-Hossein Esmaili, spokesman for the Iranian judiciary, said Wednesday that authorities had arrested a number of people during the crackdown and that in the past week, 11 cases related to the hoarding of medical supplies had been brought to court.
埃斯迈利表示，若法院裁定这些案件涉及腐败，根据伊朗法律，被告人或将面临最长20年的监禁，甚至死刑。
If the court decides the cases involve corruption, the defendant could face up to 20 years in jail or even the death penalty under Iranian law, he said.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
290人议会23人确诊！伊朗增产医疗用品，囤积走私或处极刑。
Iran increases production of medical supplies and hoards smuggling or capital punishment.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "290人议会23人确诊！伊朗增产医疗用品，囤积走私或处极刑";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "伊朗司法部发言人称，若相关囤积走私案件被裁定涉及腐败，被告人或将面临最长20年的监禁，甚至死刑。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Iran's Justice Ministry spokesman says the accused may face up to 20 years in prison, or even capital punishment, if the alleged hoarding of smuggled goods is found to involve corruption.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
