留守空剧院，我依旧等待《狮子王》到来。
Staying at the theater, I'm still waiting for The Lion King.
段心玫。
Duan Xinmei.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
段心玫/华中科技大学新闻与信息传播学院儿童眼科诊所的店长文子（化名）还记得，2019年的10月，自己曾在武汉琴台大剧院听了一场李云迪的音乐会，她很想念那段多姿多彩的时光（☞此前报道）。
Wen-tzu (alias), director of the Children's Ophthalmology Clinic at the School of Journalism and Information Dissemination at China Central University of Science and Technology, recalls attending a concert by Li Yundi at Wuhan Qintai Grand Theatre in October 2019.
如今，大剧院与整个武汉一起，陷入了沉寂。
Now, along with the whole city of Wuhan, the Grand Theatre has fallen into silence.
“如果没有这次疫情，我们今天应该会忙疯了吧。
"If it hadn't been for the outbreak, we would have been crazy today.
”剧院保安部经理周登涛和他的同事挤在大剧院的办公室里闲聊。
Zhou Dengtao, director of theatre security, and his colleagues crowded into the theatre office to chat.
这天是个特别的日子，留守剧院32天，无论时光多么重复单调，他们依旧会因2月19日这天感慨万千。
It was a special day, staying at the theatre for 32 days, and no matter how monotonous the time, they would still feel great about February 19.
原定于2月19日首演的百老汇原版音乐剧《狮子王》国际巡演武汉站，因新冠肺炎疫情宣布调档，并于近日开启退换票通道，重演时间未知。
The original Broadway musical "The Lion King" international tour of Wuhan, scheduled to premiere on Feb. 19, announced a shift in gears due to the outbreak of pneumonia in the New Crown.
武汉琴台大剧院1月18日提前放假，包括周登涛在内的7名保安没有选择回家，留在了大剧院、留在了武汉。
Wuhan Qintai Grand Theatre early January 18 holiday, including Zhou Tengtao, seven security guards did not choose to go home, left the Grand Theatre, remained in Wuhan.
他们都是武汉或武汉周边人，大部分为90后，最小的22岁，都是身体健康、免疫力强的精壮小伙子。
They are all Wuhan or Wuhan people, mostly after 90, the youngest 22-year-old, are healthy, strong immune young man.
从去年起，“看樱花，看狮子王”“游武汉，看狮子王”这些口号就让周登涛感到激动 。
Since last year, Zhou Dengtao has been excited by the slogan "Look at the cherry blossoms, the lion king" and "swim to Wuhan and see the Lion King."
本文图片均为受访者提供7人，32天，一天三班轮值，从前金光熠熠、人头攒动的剧院大厅，如今由他们七人守护，并将继续守护下去。
The seven-person, 32-day, three-shift theatre hall, which used to be a golden theatre full of people, is now guarded by seven of them and will continue to do so.
在疫情结束前，剧院就是他们同吃同住的家。
Before the end of the epidemic, the theater was where they lived and ate together.
周登涛1983年生，湖北孝感邹岗镇联合村人，他眼里的大剧院是个优雅美丽的殿堂，是他深深热爱的地方。
Zhou Dengtao was born in 1983, Hubei Xiaogan Zou Gang Town United Village, he thought of the Grand Theatre is an elegant and beautiful hall, is he deeply love the place.
“在剧院工作是神圣的。
"It is sacred to work in the theatre.
”一直不善言谈、用词朴素的周登涛笃定万分。
Zhou Dengtao, who has been a poor talker and a plain speaker, is sure.
看似守在幕后、与舞台上的阳春白雪无关的他们，其实早已和剧院、艺术紧密相连，他们的情感在这里流淌生根，即使灾难无情、剧院沉寂，这依旧是一份让他们由衷享受和自豪的职业。
They, who seem to be standing behind the scenes, and have nothing to do with the rising sun and snow on the stage, have long been closely associated with the theatre and the arts, where their emotions have taken root, and even if the disaster is merciless and the theatre is silent, it is still a profession in which they can take heart and pride.
《狮子王》调档了如果没有这场灾难，2月19日，全武汉的焦点将在琴台大剧院，《狮子王》内地第一站如约首演，此后数月上演70余场，春天的武汉将属于“这只小狮子”。
If it hadn't been for the disaster, Wuhan would have been the "little lion" on February 19th, with the first mainland stop of The Lion King coming on schedule and more than 70 in the next few months.
这并不夸张。
That is no exaggeration.
此前巡演多国并屡破票房纪录的《狮子王》终于来到中国大陆，武汉站开票第一天，售票近10000张，要从其他城市来武汉看剧的观众近40%，琴台大剧院的工作人员说这是“史无前例的奇迹”。
"The Lion King," which previously toured many countries and hit record box office records, finally made it to mainland China with nearly 10,000 tickets sold on the first day of the Wuhan show, an unprecedented 40 percent of the audience coming from other cities to Wuhan.
对周登涛来说，从业近六年，《狮子王》是最让他兴奋和期待的项目之一，他负责的保安部去年起就在为《狮子王》的安保工作筹备、演练。
For Zhou, one of the most exciting and anticipated projects in his career in the past six years is Lion King, whose security department has been preparing for and rehearsing security for The Lion King since last year.
“各个岗位是否就位？检查是否完毕？”在周登涛的想象中，原本今晚6点半2月19日晚6点半，制服笔挺、皮鞋锃亮的他应该已经在用对讲机与各岗位对接，同事们检票、安检、接待，各司其职。
"Are all the posts in place? Check out?" Zhou Tengtao imagined that tonight at 6: 30 February 19 evening, his uniform bristling, shoes polished, he should have used walkie-talkies to docking posts, colleagues check tickets, security check, reception, each according to his job.
大厅大门拉开，来自全国各地的观众将在他们的迎接下有序进入，观众们会被布满大厅、各式各样的《狮子王》宣传物料吸引，这会是所有人期待已久的时刻，也会是深深写在周登涛职业生涯里的荣耀一笔。
The main entrance of the hall will be opened and audiences from all over the country will be welcomed into the hall. The audience will be attracted by the various Lion King promotional materials all over the hall. This will be a long-awaited moment for everyone and an honour written deeply into Zhou's career.
从去年起，“看樱花，看狮子王”“游武汉，看狮子王”这些口号就让周登涛感到激动，这是武汉市政府、文旅局都在支持的项目，是武汉即将打造的城市名片，而他会在现场接待那些远道而来的演职人员。
Since last year, Zhou Dengtao has been agitated by the slogan "Look at the cherry blossoms, the lion king" and "swim to Wuhan, see the Lion King." This is a project supported by the Wuhan city government and the Tourism Bureau.
“真的太有意义了！”他说。
"It really makes sense," he said.
对周登涛来说，从业近六年，《狮子王》是最让他兴奋和期待的项目之一“原本这会是繁忙的一天。
For Zhou, "The Lion King" has been one of his biggest thrills and expectations for nearly six years. "It was supposed to be a busy day.
”和琴台所有工作人员一样，周登涛也是遗憾的， 但想到武汉有很多家庭在这场灾难里破碎了，他开始痛心难过，他明白共抗疫情是这个时候最重要的事。
"Like all Qin staff, Zhou Dengtao was sorry, but he began to grieve to think that Wuhan had many families shattered in the disaster, and he knew that fighting the epidemic together was the most important thing at this time.
作为一名退伍的老兵，周登涛有时候会想，如果病毒是个敌人，他愿意拿着枪上战场跟它拼杀。
As a veteran, Zhou Dengtao sometimes thinks that if the virus is an enemy, he is willing to fight it with a gun on the battlefield.
我们并非守着一座孤岛响应公司号召来留守剧场，周登涛从没犹豫过。
We are not guarding a lonely island to respond to the company's call to stay at the theater, Zhou Tengtao never hesitated.
高中毕业就入伍当兵的他在部队待了12年后转业，2014年五四青年节那天，他来到琴台大剧院所属的保利集团工作。
After 12 years in the army, he changed his job after graduating from high school. On May 4th, 2014, he came to work for the Paulie Group, which belongs to the Grand Theatre.
老兵多、氛围好、管理军事化，这里让周登涛感到踏实又充实。
Veterans many, the atmosphere is good, the management militarization, here lets Zhou Tengtao feel solid and substantial.
“我是保安部的负责人，这种时候就应该到剧院来，这是我应该守护的地方。
"I'm in charge of the security department, and this is the time to come to the theatre. It's where I should be.
”他觉得这就够了。
He felt that was enough.
现实中的2月19日和之前的32天没什么不同。
In reality, February 19 is no different from the previous 32 days.
早晨9点，他按时到岗，到厨房帮忙打下手，切菜、端盘子、拿出消过毒的碗筷，然后开始去各个岗位巡视，工程机房、舞台设备都要检查，监控室、高压配电房都要确保有人值班。
He arrived on time at 9 a.m. to help with kitchen help cut vegetables, carry dishes and take out disinfectant dishchopsticks. Then he went around the jobs, checking the engineering room and stage equipment, and making sure there was someone on duty in the control room and the high-voltage distribution room.
上午11点左右准备开饭，他们和隔壁琴台音乐厅的留值人员一起打饭。
Around 11 a. m., they prepared dinner with a guest in the concert hall next door.
剧院食堂是外包给餐饮公司的，有自己的蔬菜基地，他们每天都能吃到新鲜的蔬菜水果。
Theater canteen is outsourced to the catering company, with its own vegetable base, they can eat fresh fruits and vegetables every day.
此前，保利集团从全国各地和海外为他们调集来一批物资，口罩、消毒液、洗手液、手套等必需品也十分充足。
Earlier, the group had brought in supplies from around the country and overseas, and supplies such as masks, disinfectants, hand sanitizers and gloves were plentiful.
吃过午饭就该清扫消毒了，办公室、监控室、厨房、洗手间…………疫情期间，生活区和工作区都要保证每日消毒。
After lunch should be cleaned and disinfected, the office, the control room, the kitchen, the bathroom... During the outbreak, daily disinfection of the living and working areas should be ensured.
晚饭后，他们需要收集所有垃圾送往户外回收点。
After dinner, they collect all the rubbish and send it to an outdoor collection point.
晚上8点，夜班人员到岗，另一个12个小时的值班就开始了。
At 8 p.m., night shift workers arrive, and another 12-hour shift begins.
生活区和工作区都要保证每日消毒武汉疫情一度很不乐观，但充足的物资是周登涛安全感的来源，剧院的四方天地至少让他们生活无忧。
Life and work areas to ensure daily sterilization Wuhan epidemic situation was not optimistic at one time, but adequate supplies are the source of Zhou Tengtao's security, the theater's four worlds at least let them live secure.
周登涛几乎每天都会接到集团领导打来的电话，接受关于健康和物资的询问，他能感觉到他们是被关心的，并非在这里守着一座孤岛，这让他很心安：“没有后顾之忧更能尽职尽责。
Almost every day Zhou Dengtao receives phone calls from group leaders asking for health and supplies. He feels that they are being taken care of, not guarding an isolated island.
”剧院观众厅很大，1400多平米，三层，1802个座位。
The auditorium is large, with more than 1,400 square metres and three floors and 1,802 seats.
周登涛常常看着空荡荡的剧院，会想到以前歌舞喧闹的画面。
Zhou Dengtao often looks at the empty theater, will think of the old song and dance noise picture.
他对自己说：“等疫情过去吧，过去了就能开开心心来到剧场，演出、看剧、迎接观众！”我爱剧院，也爱武汉留守期间的工作密度并不算高，大部分时光还是需要在生活琐碎上消磨。
He said to himself: "When the epidemic is over, the past will be happy to go to the theater, performances, drama, audience!" I love the theater, I love Wuhan stay-at-home work intensity is not high, most of the time still need to spend on trivial life.
保障剧院安全、保证人员健康之外，周登涛有很多时间可以自由支配。
Besides ensuring theatre safety and ensuring people's health, Zhou Tengtao has plenty of time at his disposal.
同事们常常会在办公室休息、聊天、玩游戏，周登涛除了给后厨帮忙，还会看看电影和电视剧，《大明风华》的64集他全看完了，周星驰和刘德华早期的电影也看了不少。
In addition to helping the chef, Zhou Dengtao also watches movies and TV series. He has seen all 64 episodes of Daming Fenghua, and many of the earlier films of Zhou Xingchi and Andy Lau.
他还喜欢看书，《红楼梦》的人物描写曾让他痴迷，还有邓小平女儿写的《我的父亲邓小平》、季羡林的《牛棚杂记》，他看了一遍又一遍，历史类的书籍总是让他格外喜欢。
He also liked reading books, the portraits of "Dream of the Red Mansions" had fascinated him, and Deng Xiaoping's daughter's "My Father Deng Xiaoping" and Ji Xianlin's "Tales of the Cowherds," he read and read over and over again.
最近几天睡觉前，他会在一个App上听书，花365块钱订阅一整年，听这些由各类名著浓缩成的50分钟左右的音频，有关于励志的、成长的，还有企业管理、销售营销的，眼睛疲累的时候，听书让他很舒服。
Before going to bed the last few days, he'd spend 365 dollars on an App to subscribe to 50 minutes or so of audio condensed from classics, inspirational, growing, corporate management, sales and marketing, and comfortable listening to books when his eyes are tired.
“现在我们读书的时间越来越少了，又都是碎片化的时间，所以听书会更容易投入进去。
"Now we have less time to read and more time to fragment, so it's easier to listen to books.
”他很想把这件有趣的事推荐给身边的人。
He wanted to recommend this interesting thing to the people around him.
周登涛对剧院是有情怀的。
Zhou Tengtao is sentimental about the theatre.
小时候只能从电视里看到交响音乐会、话剧，来这里工作前，他总觉得自己是门外汉，与剧院格格不入。
When he was a child, he could only see symphonic concerts and plays on television. Before he came here to work, he felt like a layman, out of place in the theatre.
但五六年的时间过去，他发现不论是话剧、音乐剧还是交响乐，都是在生活的泥土里开花，他总能看到生活的影子。
But five or six years passed, and he found that whether it was a play, a musical or a symphony, blossoming in the soil of life, he could always see the shadow of life.
值班的时候，他和同事们经常轮流去场内工作，每场他都会从头看到尾，也都会有所触动，在他看来，《巴黎圣母院》、《阿依达》都是让人震撼的作品，都是爱恨交织的传奇故事。
While on duty, he and his colleagues often took turns working on the field. He saw it from beginning to end, and he thought Notre Dame de Paris and Ayida were thrilling stories, full of love-hate legends.
周登涛眼里的大剧院是个优雅美丽的殿堂，是他深深热爱的地方。
Zhou Tengtao's eyes of the Grand Theatre is an elegant and beautiful temple, he deeply love the place.
对周登涛来说，精神生活比物质生活更重要，他觉得只有心灵上的充实、精神上的满足才能让一个人充满阳光并感到幸福。
For Zhou Dengtao, the spiritual life is more important than the material life, he felt that only the spiritual enrichment and spiritual satisfaction can make a person full of sunshine and happiness.
他记得去年夏天，一个老奶奶每天都带着她的孙子来看演出，只买一张票，让剧院的工作人员带小孙子进去，自己就坐在外面等，她说她是附近的居民，孙子在学钢琴，也很喜欢儿童剧，她很信任剧院，有多少演出就要让孙子看多少场。
He remembered that last summer an old woman came to the show with her grandson every day, bought only one ticket for the theatre staff to take her little grandson in and sit outside and waited for her. She said she was a resident of the neighbourhood.
周登涛越发觉得，武汉其实是一个文化氛围很好的城市，大家对艺术和文化的需求很高，是这些特殊的观众让他越来越了解这座城市。
Zhou Tengtao more and more feel that Wuhan is actually a very good cultural atmosphere of the city, the high demand for art and culture, it is these special audience let him understand the city more and more.
在这场大部分武汉人每天都会为抢菜、囤货、购买物资劳心费神的灾难里，剧院似乎只是代表精神世界、文化生活的象牙塔，大剧院也注定会因这场疫情暂时沉寂，期限未知。
In a disaster in which most Wuhan people struggle daily to grab vegetables, hoard goods, and buy supplies, the theater seems to represent the ivory tower of spiritual and cultural life, and is doomed to a lull in the epidemic for an unknown period.
但现实让人惊喜，“春暖花开，剧场相见”仿佛成了琴台和武汉观众的密语，这句话在琴台大剧院所有平台的留言区里随处可见，大家都因这浪漫的约定信心倍增，包括周登涛：“剧院是这个城市很重要的一部分，疫情固然很严峻，但我相信有的东西是不会被忘记的。
But the reality is amazing, "Spring flowers bloom, theater meet" seems to become the lyre and Wuhan audience of the secret language, this phrase can be found in all platforms of the Chin Tai Theatre message area, everyone is confident that the romantic agreement, including Zhou Tengtao: "Theatre is an important part of the city, the epidemic is very serious, but I believe that some things will not be forgotten.
”有很多买过《狮子王》的观众并不想退票，他们都在等待《狮子王》归来，周登涛也是，他相信它一定会上演，他在剧院等着那一天。
Many people who have bought The Lion King do not want a refund, they are waiting for The Lion King to return and so does Zhou Tengtao, who believes it will be staged and he is waiting for the day at the theatre.
(指导老师：华中科技大学新闻与信息传播学院教师 周婷婷；澎湃新闻记者 张小莲 崔烜)本期编辑 邢潭推荐阅读。
) Teacher: Zhou Tingting, a faculty member of the School of Journalism and Information Dissemination, Central China University of Science and Technology.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
留守空剧院，我依旧等待《狮子王》到来。
Staying at the theater, I'm still waiting for The Lion King.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "留守空剧院，我依旧等待《狮子王》到来";。
var msg _ title = & quot; left at Rita & quot; I still await Rat King's arrival;;
var msg_desc = "他相信它一定会上演，他在剧院等着那一天。
var msg _ desc = & quot; he believes it must be staged; he's waiting at the theatre for that day.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
