武汉“封城”战疫情：民航铁路高速等出城通道相继关闭。
Wuhan "closed the city" war epidemic: civil aviation railway high-speed traffic out of the city closed.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 出行一客。
The following article comes from a trip.
Author 施智梁团队。
Author Team.
出行一客。
Take a trip.
《财经》杂志交通工业组创建，专注于交通出行领域新闻。
The Transport Industry Section of Caijing Magazine was founded to focus on news in the field of transport travel.
在这里，我们将带你联结出行、科技与未来。
Here, we will connect you with travel, technology and the future.
。
.
关闭高速公路已是迫在眉睫，此前有因为自驾出游导致疑似感染的病例。
The closure of the highway is already imminent, following a suspected case of infection as a result of a drive.
截至1月23日下午14时，出武汉市的高速公路开始封闭湖北省武汉市洪山区武鄂高速公路龚家岭收费站，已经堵车一个半小时文 |《财经》记者 陈亮 李皙寅 王静仪编辑 | 施智梁1月22日一天之内，武汉新增62例新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎病例。
As of 14: 00 p.m. on January 23, Wuhan city's expressway began to close Gong Jialing toll collection point on the Hubei Hongshan area of Wuhan City, Hubei Province. & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; &
随着武汉肺炎疫情进一步蔓延，此前多位专业人士建议的全面封闭武汉公交系统，最终成为现实。
With the further spread of pneumonia in Wuhan, the previous professional recommendations of a comprehensive closure of Wuhan public transport system, finally become a reality.
武汉市新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控指挥部于1月23日凌晨2时发布公告，自2020年1月23日10时起，全市城市公交、地铁、轮渡、长途客运暂停运营；机场、火车站离汉通道暂时关闭。
The Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command for the New Coronavirus Infection in Wuhan issued a notice at 2: 00 a.m. on January 23, 2020. From 1000 hours on January 23, 2020, the city's public transport, subway, ferry and long-distance passenger transport operations were suspended.
恢复时间另行通告。
Recovery time will be announced separately.
1月23日下午2时许，央视记者从湖北省高速公路管理部门获悉，湖北省内龚家岭、小军山、汉南、北湖、花山、柏泉、青龙、西湖站入口封闭。
On January 23 around 2 p.m., CCTV reporters from the Hubei Province Highway Administration learned that the Hubei Province in Gong Jialing, Xiaojun Mountain, Hannan, North Lake, Huashan, cypress, Qinglong, West Lake Station entrance closed.
京港澳高速武汉西、武汉北、蔡甸、永安收费站口封闭。
Beijing, Hong Kong and Macao high-speed Wuhan West, Wuhan North, Cai dian, Yongan toll station closed.
其他出武汉市的高速公路口也已开始封闭。
Other highways out of Wuhan have also begun to close.
在外界看来，武汉实施只能进城不能出城的“封城”措施，实属无奈之举，虽然会给市民生活带来诸多不便，但有利于疫情排查和防控。
In the eyes of the outside world, Wuhan can only go into the city can not go out of the "closure" measures, is a helpless, although it will bring many inconveniences to the lives of citizens, but it is conducive to disease detection and prevention.
一名返汉途中的乘客对《财经》记者表示，他们还没接到不能停靠汉口站的通知。
A passenger on his way back to China told Caijing that they had not been notified that they could not stop at Hankou Station.
“目前还是单向的命令，即管出不管进。
"At the moment it is a one-way command, that is, pipe out regardless of entry.
”从1月23日早上开始，离开武汉的公共交通系统正在逐渐关闭。
From the morning of January 23, the public transport system that leaves Wuhan is gradually closing.
据AirSavvi数据，1月23日武汉机场计划进出港航班629架次。
Wuhan airport is scheduled to fly 629 flights in and out of the port on January 23, according to AirSavvi.
截至13点05分，已经累计取消了412架次。
As at 1305 hours, 412 such sorties had been cancelled.
完成出港航班66架次，最后出港航班号CZ356，目的地广州，离港时间12点55分。
Completion of 66 departures with final departure flight No. CZ356 to Guangzhou at 12.55 HKT.
武汉天河机场新闻中心中层干部告诉《财经》记者，目前武汉天河机场没有关闭，仍在运行。
Wuhan Tianhe Airport information center middle-level cadres told Caijing, Wuhan Tianhe Airport is not closed, is still in operation.
截至10时，进港20架次，出港45架次。
As at 1000 hours, 20 sorties had been flown out of Hong Kong.
《财经》记者最新获悉，目前旅客已不能进入武汉天河机场候机楼，落地旅客可以出航站楼。
Caijing reporter recently learned that at present, passengers can not enter Wuhan Tianhe airport terminal, landing passengers can leave the terminal.
公路是众多武汉市内人民离开武汉的重要选择。
Highway is an important choice for many Wuhan people to leave Wuhan.
截止2019年中，武汉共有各种车辆超过320万，日常驾车出行人次多达数百万。
By mid-2019, Wuhan had more than 3.2 million vehicles and millions of daily car trips.
《财经》记者获悉，从武汉昨日开始实施进出城道口重大疫情排查防控以来，公路检测点出现较为明显的排队情况，平均排队时间30分钟左右。
According to Caijing reporter, since Wuhan started to implement major epidemic prevention and control in and out of the city's Daokou yesterday, there has been a more obvious line-up at the highway inspection point, with an average queuing time of about 30 minutes.
武汉市内公交车基本已经停运但这一通道也在被关闭。
The bus service in Wuhan city has been suspended but the passageway is being closed.
央视记者从湖北省高速公路管理部门获悉，湖北省内龚家岭、小军山、汉南、北湖、花山、柏泉、青龙、西湖站入口封闭。
CCTV reporters from the Hubei Province Highway Administration learned that the Hubei Province Gong Jialing, Xiaojun Shan, Hannan, North Lake, Huashan, cypress, Qinglong, West Lake Station entrance closed.
京港澳高速武汉西、武汉北、蔡甸、永安收费站口封闭。
Beijing, Hong Kong and Macao high-speed Wuhan West, Wuhan North, Cai dian, Yongan toll station closed.
其他出武汉市的高速公路口也已开始封闭。
Other highways out of Wuhan have also begun to close.
有人感叹：这就是真的“土城”了，还没有离开武汉的人，接下来只能留守当地了。
Some people sigh: This is the real "Tucheng", has not left Wuhan people, the next can only stay in the local.
有人选择离开武汉，也有人选择主动留守。
Some choose to leave Wuhan, others choose to stay.
“这个时候我不会离开武汉。
"I won't leave Wuhan at this time.
”一位驻守一线的当地记者告诉《财经》记者，武汉现在虽形势严峻，但是中央、武汉市委市政府决定封城，旨在不让病毒扩散而影响其他城市。
Wuhan is now in a serious situation, but the central government and Wuhan Municipal Government have decided to close the city to prevent the virus from spreading to other cities, a local reporter stationed on the front line told Caijing.
武汉目前已是有壮士断腕的决心。
Wuhan now has the determination to have a strong hand.
“封城”前数小时，上千人搭机离汉为应对疫情，厦门航空、东方航空（600115.SH/00670.HK/NYSE:CEA）、南方航空（600029..SH/01055.HK/）等航司从昨晚至今晨一直在开会讨论航班调整计划。
Hours before the closure of the city, thousands of people were flown out of the country in response to the outbreak. The airline companies Xiamen Airlines, China Eastern Airlines (600115.SH / 00670.HK / NYSE: CEA), Southern Airlines (600029. SH / 01055.HK /) met last night and this morning to discuss flight adjustment plans.
1月23日早上的武汉天河机场厦门航空的工作人员告诉《财经》记者，厦门航空已于1月22日制定武汉航班调整计划，采用取消政策。
Xiamen Airlines staff at Wuhan Tianhe Airport told Caijing on the morning of January 23 that Xiamen Airlines had worked out a flight adjustment plan for Wuhan on January 22, adopting the cancellation policy.
厦门航空取消了1月23日部分武汉进出港航班，例如8:15杭州至武汉、11:00武汉至杭州的航班等。
Xiamen Airlines canceled January 23 some Wuhan inbound and outbound flights, such as the 8: 15 Hangzhou to Wuhan, 11: 00 Wuhan to Hangzhou flights.
经过管理层凌晨开会决议后，东方航空也取消1月23日东方航空、上海航空实际执飞武汉的部分进出港航班，涉及20个架次。
China Eastern also cancelled some of the flights that China Eastern and Shanghai Airlines actually flew to and from Wuhan on January 23, involving 20 flights, after a management meeting in the early morning.
例如6:55上海浦东至武汉、10:25武汉至上海虹桥等。
Examples: Shanghai Pudong to Wuhan, 10: 25 Wuhan to Shanghai Hongqiao and so on.
《财经》记者获悉，1月23日凌晨东方航空武汉出港航班有7个，共计883人；武汉进港航班8个航班，共计440人。
According to Caijing, China Eastern Airlines had seven flights out of Wuhan early on January 23, making a total of 883 people, and Wuhan inbound flights with a total of 440 people.
南方航空1月23日10时后武汉出港航班全部取消。
Southern Airlines on January 23 after 10: 00 Wuhan all flights canceled.
此外，南方航空还取消了部分进港航班。
In addition, Southern Airlines cancelled some inbound flights.
取消进出武汉航班架次达107架次。
Some 107 sorties were cancelled in and out of Wuhan.
《财经》记者向中国国航（601111.SH/00753.HK）询问相关情况，目前中国国航尚未就涉及武汉的航班情况作出表态。
Caijing asked Air China (601111.SH / 00753.HK) about the situation, and Air China has not said anything about flights involving Wuhan.
据AirSavvi数据，1月23日武汉机场计划进出港航班629架次。
Wuhan airport is scheduled to fly 629 flights in and out of the port on January 23, according to AirSavvi.
截至13点05分，已经累计取消了412架次。
As at 1305 hours, 412 such sorties had been cancelled.
完成进港航班37架次，最后进港航班号CA8244，出发地贵阳，落地时间13点01分。
The 37 inbound flights were completed and the final inbound flight number CA8244 landed at 1301 hours from Guiyang.
完成出港航班66架次，最后出港航班号CZ356，目的地广州，离港时间为1月23日12点55分。
Completion of 66 departures with final departure flight No. CZ356 to Guangzhou, departing from Hong Kong at 12.55 a.m. on 23 January.
23日武汉机场出港航班目的地分别为：广州、巴黎、成都、曼谷、福州、香港、长滩岛、兰州、拉萨、西宁。
Wuhan airport departure flight destination is: Guangzhou, Paris, Chengdu, Bangkok, Fuzhou, Hong Kong, Long Beach, Lanzhou, Lhasa, Xining.
进港航班出发地分别为：广州、重庆、太原、成都、曼谷、厦门、三亚、温州、胡志明、香港、贵阳、西安、恩施、兰州、北京、上海、昆明、临汾、天津、海口、巴厘岛、宁波、仰光、福州、杭州、泉州、深圳、普吉、青岛。
The inbound flights originated from Guangzhou, Chongqing, Taiyuan, Chengdu, Bangkok, Xiamen, Sanya, Wenzhou, Ho Chi Minh, Hong Kong, Guiyang, Xi'an, Enshi, Lanzhou, Beijing, Shanghai, Kunming, Linfen, Tianjin, Haikou, Bali, Ningbo, Yangon, Fuzhou, Hangzhou, Quanzhou, Shenzhen, Phuket and Qingdao.
武汉天河机场新闻中心一位工作人员强调，武汉机场没有关闭，仍在运行。
Wuhan Tianhe Airport Information Center staff stressed that Wuhan airport has not been closed, is still in operation.
目前机场方面在组织网约车、大巴保障旅客出行。
At present, the airport in the organization of network cars, buses to guarantee passenger travel.
据悉，机场已经设立进出口双向测温，所有工作人员均佩戴口罩。
It is reported that the airport has set up two-way temperature measurement, all staff wear masks.
现场旅客在目力所及范围也都戴上了口罩。
Visitors at the scene were also wearing masks within eyesight.
东方航空涉武汉航线机组乘务组、武汉机场地服员工已全面发放口罩，可在工作全程中佩戴，其他航线员工也全部佩戴口罩，做好个人防护。
Eastern Airlines flights to Wuhan airline crew, Wuhan airport ground service staff have been fully issued masks, can be worn throughout the work, other routes staff also wear masks, personal protection.
在接收武汉进港航班的地区，航空公司也采取了措施。
Airlines have also taken steps in areas receiving Wuhan inbound flights.
东方航空地面服务部的工作人员对《财经》记者表示，在上海虹桥和浦东机场，东航地服安排专人、专车、专用设备保障涉武汉航班，针对性升级防护消毒措施，保护旅客及员工安全。
At Shanghai Hongqiao and Pudong airports, the company has arranged special persons, vehicles and special equipment to cover Wuhan flights, upgrade protective disinfection measures and protect passengers and employees, an official with the China Eastern Aeronautics and Space Administration told Caijing.
虽然各航空公司都在取消了大部分涉及武汉的航班，但10时以后仍有少部分航空从武汉天河机场起飞。
Although airlines are canceling most flights involving Wuhan, a small number of airlines still take off from Wuhan Tianhe Airport after 10: 00.
例如10：00武汉至哈尔滨、10:15武汉至西宁、10：15武汉至拉萨、10:40武汉至南宁、11:05武汉至西宁、11:30武汉至巴黎。
Wuhan to Harbin, 1015 Wuhan to Xining, 1015 Wuhan to Lhasa, 1040 Wuhan to Nanning, 11: 05 Wuhan to Xining, 11: 30 Wuhan to Paris.
与此同时，武汉火车站开始出行管制，想进站离开武汉的乘客被阻拦，从外地到武汉的乘客可以停靠并出站。
At the same time, Wuhan railway station began to travel control, want to enter the station to leave Wuhan passengers were blocked, from other places to Wuhan passengers can stop and leave.
一名返汉途中的乘客对《财经》记者表示，他们还没接到不能停靠汉口站的通知，目前还是单向的命令。
A passenger on his way back to China told Caijing that they had not been notified that they could not stop at Hankou Station.
1月23日上午11时许达到汉口站的旅客告诉《财经》记者，出站时没有特别的安检措施，“也没有人测我的体温”。
Passengers arriving at Hankou Station at about 11 a.m. on January 23 told Caijing there were no special security checks and "no one took my temperature."
上述旅客表示，已看不到进站乘客，出车厢后只有下车乘客与乘务人员，进站入口、地铁口等已关闭。
The passengers said that no inbound passengers can be seen, only get off the train passengers and crew, the entrance to the station, subway entrance has been closed.
出站后，打车需要排队上百人，最终上述旅客选择骑行近5公里回到家中。
After leaving the station, the taxi had to line up hundreds of people, eventually the above-mentioned passengers chose to ride nearly 5 kilometers home.
公路能否有效管控？“无特殊原因，市民不要离开武汉，机场、火车站离汉通道暂时关闭。
"Without any special reason, citizens should not leave Wuhan, airports and railway stations from Han corridor temporarily closed.
”《财经》记者留意到，在这份武汉市新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控指挥部1月23日凌晨发布的通告中，未提及关闭高速公路、国道等公路，因此有人认为，“封城”并不彻底。
"Caijing" reporter noted that in this Wuhan city, the new coronavirus infection of the pneumonia command issued in the early hours of January 23, issued the notice, did not mention the closure of highways, state roads and other highways, some people believe that the "closure" is not thorough.
根据当地人提供的情况，“封城”消息公布后，自驾出行成为武汉市内人们离开的唯一选择，一时间造成许多路段拥堵。
According to local people, after the announcement of the "closure", driving became the only option for people to leave Wuhan, causing a lot of congestion.
根据指挥部现行规定，武汉不限制车辆进出城，但需要排查车内人员体温和是否载有活禽活畜和野生动物。
Wuhan is not restricted from entering or leaving the city, but will need to check the temperature of its occupants and live poultry and wildlife, according to current headquarters regulations.
这一规定从1月22日起实施，具体操作方法为：佩戴防护口罩和防护手套的民警要求驾驶员打开后备厢，查看是否载有活禽活畜和野生动物；两名身穿白色防护服的卫生防疫人员，手持测温枪，逐一进行检测和筛查。
The regulations, which came into effect on 22 January, were implemented by the civilian police wearing face masks and protective gloves, who asked the driver to open the back box to see if there were live poultry and wildlife on board, and two sanitary agents dressed in white protective clothing, who were hand-held and tested and screened one by one.
一旦确认车辆未载有活禽活畜和野生动物，司机和车内旅客体温正常，随即给予放行。
Once it is confirmed that the vehicle is free of live poultry and wildlife, the driver and the passengers in the vehicle have normal body temperature and are then released.
从武汉昨日开始实施进出城道口重大疫情排查防控以来，公路检测点出现较为明显的排队情况，平均排队时间30分钟左右。
Since Wuhan started to implement the major epidemic prevention and control in and out of the city Daokou yesterday, road inspection points appear more obvious queuing situation, the average queuing time of about 30 minutes.
武汉本地媒体长江网报道，民警人手已不够，各区政府职能部门如交通运输局、文化和旅游局、园林和林业局、卫生健康局等单位都派出工作人员，一道在公路上检查过往车辆。
Wuhan local media Changjiang reported that the civilian police are no longer sufficient, the regional government departments such as the Transport Bureau, the Culture and Tourism Bureau, the Landscape and Forestry Bureau, the Health and Health Bureau and others have sent staff to inspect vehicles on the highway.
此前尚未限制鄂A牌照出城，检查措施也不是天衣无缝。
There were no previous restrictions on the exit of the E-E license plate, and inspection measures were not seamless.
刘先生1月23日上午9点左右从汉蔡高速离开武汉，“没有人查体温，一路上也没有，”他告诉《财经》记者，“出武汉的高速上车非常多。
Mr. Liu left Wuhan at about 9 a.m. on January 23 from Hancai expressway. "No one checked the temperature and there was no temperature along the way," he told Caijing.
”汉蔡高速通往宜昌、十堰、西安、北京等，是当地重要的对外交通通道。
Hancai Expressway leads to Yichang, Shiyan, Xi'an and Beijing, and is an important external transportation route.
据《中国经营报》报道，1月23日9时许，作为武汉出城重要高速公路之一的汉蔡高速收费口，大量离汉车辆正排队。
According to China Business Daily, on January 23, at about 9: 00 a.m., a large number of vehicles were queuing up at Hancai Expressway, one of Wuhan's major highways.
至上午9时30时，肉眼已经难以看到排队车辆的队尾，出行车辆已经等候半小时以上。
By 9.30 a.m., it was difficult for the naked eye to see the end of the queue and the vehicles had been waiting for more than half an hour.
1月23日早上准备离开武汉的市民告诉《财经》记者，已经在龚家岭收费站排队一个半小时。
People preparing to leave Wuhan on the morning of January 23 told Caijing that they had lined up at Gong Jialing toll booth for an hour and a half.
龚家岭收费站位于武鄂高速，武鄂高速是武汉左岭至鄂州花湖的公路，是武汉“1+8城市圈”公路水路交通发展规划中的七条射线之一。
Gong Jialing toll station is located at the Wubei Expressway, which is one of the seven rays in Wuhan "1 + 8 Urban Circle" highway and waterway traffic development plan.
关闭高速公路已是迫在眉睫，此前有因为自驾出游导致疑似感染的病例。
The closure of the highway is already imminent, following a suspected case of infection as a result of a drive.
据人民日报报道，内蒙古自治区满洲里市发现1例新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疑似病例。
A suspected case of pneumonia with a new coronavirus infection has been found in Manzhouli, Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, the People's Daily reported.
患者男，30岁，家住武汉市，从事服装生意，21日自驾游到满洲里市后，直接到满洲里市人民医院急诊科就诊。
The patient, a 30-year-old man living in Wuhan, engaged in the clothing business, 21 self-driving to Manzhouli City, directly to the emergency department of the Manchuria People's Hospital.
截至1月23日中午12点半，湖北高速交警最新一条微博是：“高速公路因雾实施的临时交通管制已全部解除，全省高速公路恢复正常通行。
"Temporary traffic control on the expressway due to fog has been lifted and the expressway is back to normal," Hubei Expressway Traffic Police said on Tuesday at 12: 30 noon.
”底下评论大量市民询问高速是否会扩大封路，尚无应答。
The following comments have left unanswered a large number of questions from citizens about whether the motorway will be expanded.
在微博等社交媒体上，网友们正在掀起一股对出城鄂A牌照的讨论。
On social media, such as Weibo, netizens are sparking a debate about getting a licence to exit the city.
先后有网友发文称，在高速路上，刚才旁边有辆鄂A，坐标宜宾；“封城”的结果就是，鄂A字牌照把下面的地级市围得水泄不通。
In a row, netizens said that in the highway, just next to a Hubei A, coordinates Yibin; the "closure" result is that the E E license plate below the city surrounded the city.
湖北省宜昌市在1月22日发布，在各高速公路收费站出口，对通过高速公路进入本市的鄂A牌照车辆，开设专用人工通道，对司乘人员测温排查。
The city of Yichang, Hubei Province, on January 22, opened a special manual passageway at the exit of toll gates of various expressways to check the temperature of the crew of the department.
武汉周边地市无法独善其身。
Wuhan surrounding the city can not escape alone.
东风出行相关人员对《财经》记者透露，除了为武汉平台的车辆配发84消毒液等设备外，对临近的襄阳、十堰地区也指定了预案。
Dongfeng travel-related personnel told Caijing, in addition to Wuhan platform vehicles issued with 84 disinfectant equipment, the adjacent Xiangyang, Shiyan area has also designated a plan.
除了高速，还有国道和村道可供对外出行。
In addition to high-speed, but also national roads and village roads for external travel.
一位武汉当地市民对《财经》记者表示了疑虑，虽然高速封了，但国道和村道怎么办？武汉地形特殊，不知道会不会把桥梁和隧道封闭？截至1月23日下午2时许，央视记者从湖北省高速公路管理部门获悉，湖北省内龚家岭、小军山、汉南、北湖、花山、柏泉、青龙、西湖站入口封闭。
A local resident of Wuhan expressed doubts about Caijing News, saying that although the expressway was blocked at a high speed, what about the State Road and Village Road? As of 2: 00 p.m. on January 23, CCTV reporters had learned from the expressway administration in Hubei Province that the entrance to Gong Jialing, Xiaojun Mountain, Hannan, North Lake, Huashan, Baquan, Qinglong and West Lake Station was closed.
京港澳高速武汉西、武汉北、蔡甸、永安收费站口封闭。
Beijing, Hong Kong and Macao high-speed Wuhan West, Wuhan North, Cai dian, Yongan toll station closed.
其他出武汉市的高速公路口也已开始封闭。
Other highways out of Wuhan have also begun to close.
由于武汉市疫情防控指挥部通告（第1号）决定，今早10时起，长途客运全部暂停运营，网约车和出租车成为市民跨市出行的重要公共交通方式。
As a result of Wuhan city epidemic prevention and control command circular (No. 1), the operation of long-distance passenger transport has been suspended since 10: 00 this morning, and network cars and taxis have become an important means of public transport for citizens travelling across the city.
嘀嗒顺风车回应《财经》记者称，10点起，嘀嗒出行启动一级响应，已暂时关闭武汉城际顺风车和市内顺风车通道。
In response to Caijing's report, Tick-Tick started a first-class response at 10: 00 and has temporarily shut down Wuhan intercity downwind and city downwind lanes, Caijing said.
留守的市民：这个时候我不会离开武汉“速冻饺子好像储备的不够，就剩两袋，一家三口一餐就能吃一袋”。
Remaining citizens: I will not leave Wuhan at this time "frozen dumplings seem to have not enough reserves, there are only two bags, a family of three can eat a bag.
一位留守在武汉的市民刚刚吃过封城后的第一餐。
A resident left behind in Wuhan has just eaten his first meal since the city was sealed.
当早已习惯的东西突然停摆，会让人颇为措手不及。
When something you're used to is suddenly stopped, it can be quite unprepared.
速冻饺子不足后，打开电商买菜平台，却发现有的已经不接单，已下单的也成为薛定谔的快递。
After the shortage of fast-frozen dumplings, opened the platform for electric merchants to buy vegetables, but found that some have not received orders, has been ordered Schrodinger express.
出门去菜市场，途径楼下的小超市，店主说库存已经卖光。
Go out to the Halles market, through the small supermarket downstairs, the shopkeeper said that the stock had been sold out.
戴着口罩的市民，平常不常买菜的人也再度走进了菜市场。
Citizens wearing masks, who normally don't buy much food, have also re-entered the market.
一位身处武汉大学城的关先生告诉《财经》记者，得知封城消息后，菜市场的价格较往常上涨了50%左右，“大白菜5块一斤，千张10块一斤，菜苔5块一斤。
A gentleman from Wuhan University told Caijing that after learning of the ban, the prices in the Halles had risen by about 50 percent over the usual 50 percent. "Chinese cabbages cost 5 yuan a catty, 1,000 yuan a catty and 5 yuan lichen.
”关先生透露，小外卖好像都关了，但是大一点的，肯德基啊老乡鸡啊这种，食堂还有少数在营业，为此他储备了一个月的生活物资。
Mr. Guan revealed that the smaller takeout items seemed to be closed, but larger ones, like KFC, and a few of the canteens were open, so he set aside supplies for a month.
出差武汉遭遇封城的关先生表示，蔬菜有些难买，价格上涨了近五成武汉新型肺炎防控指挥部发布第2号通告，关闭离汉通道是阻止疫情扩散的必要之举，目前武汉市大宗商品、食品、医疗防护用品等储备充分、供应顺畅。
Mr. Guan, who was on business trip to Wuhan, said vegetables were difficult to buy, and the new Wuhan Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command issued Notice No. 2 that closing the Han corridor was necessary to stop the spread of the epidemic.
请广大市民不用恐慌，不必囤积，以免造成不必要的浪费。
Please do not panic, do not hoard, so as not to cause unnecessary waste.
经常出差武汉的他，第一次在武汉过年就遇到“封城”，“只要基本水电气网络供应没问题，物流和快递能维持个基本的，我觉得对大部分居民影响应该不会太大。
Wuhan business trip, the first time he encountered "closure" in Wuhan, "as long as the supply of basic hydroelectric network, logistics and express delivery can maintain a basic, I think the majority of the residents should not have too much impact.
当天早些时候，市疫情防控指挥部通告（第1号）决定，从1月23日10时起，全市公共交通全部暂停运营，出租车成为部分市民必要出行的重要方式。
Earlier in the day, the Municipal Command of Disease Control and Prevention (No. 1) decided to suspend all public transport operations in the city from 1000 hours on January 23, making taxis an important way for some citizens to travel.
为此，武汉市客管处告知广大出租车驾驶员，严禁借机讹财和拼车、拒载、绕道等违法运营行为。
To this end, Wuhan city passenger management office informed the vast number of taxi drivers, the opportunity to blackmail and carpool, refuse, detour and other illegal operations.
违者将按最严厉标准惩处。
Penalties for non-compliance are the most severe.
当地网约车也开始响应，未出行的行程普遍可以免责取消。
Local network cars also began to respond, the trip not to travel can generally be exempted from cancellation.
东风出行相关人员对《财经》记者回应，武汉的运营车辆配备了84消毒液，每天洗消；若司机被确诊，在治疗和隔离期间，租车合同中止，免除租金。
Dongfeng travel-related personnel responded to Caijing, Wuhan operating vehicles equipped with 84 disinfectant, daily washing off; if the driver is diagnosed, during treatment and isolation, the rental contract was suspended, rent-free.
共享单车或许成为重要的补充出行手段，一位上午抵达汉口火车站的旅客表示，出站后，打车需要排队上百人，因此该乘客最后选择骑行近5公里回到家中。
A passenger arriving at Hankou railway station this morning said he had to wait in line for hundreds of people to catch a taxi after his departure, so he finally chose to ride nearly five kilometers home.
1月23日12点55分，《财经》记者采用滴滴出行试图在汉口火车站叫车，显示排队第116位，预计应答时长超过一小时。
On January 23, at 12: 55, Caijing reporter used drip-drip travel to try to call at Hankou Railway Station, showing a 116th place in line, with an expected response time of more than an hour.
武汉火车站则有40人在排队，预计应答时间40分钟。
Wuhan railway station has 40 people in line, the expected response time of 40 minutes.
武汉周边地区的市民也已经逐渐进入戒备，一位李姓十堰居民表示，十堰也比较重视防疫，城区居民防疫意识较强，下辖的县市区则差一点，街上戴口罩的只有极少部分人，武汉封城后，十堰的口罩比较紧缺，好多药店已经买不到了。
Wuhan surrounding areas of the citizens have also gradually into alert, a Li Shiyan residents, Shiyan also pay more attention to epidemic prevention, urban residents epidemic awareness, the county under the jurisdiction of the county almost, the street wearing masks only a very small number of people, Wuhan after the closure of the city, Shiyan relatively scarce, many pharmacies have not been able to buy.
东风出行相关人员对《财经》记者透露，除了为武汉平台的车辆配发84消毒液等设备外，对临近的襄阳、十堰地区也指定了预案。
Dongfeng travel-related personnel told Caijing, in addition to Wuhan platform vehicles issued with 84 disinfectant equipment, the adjacent Xiangyang, Shiyan area has also designated a plan.
“返乡的大部分在腊月二十五左右就回来了”李女士表示，各县已经重视返乡人员的情况。
"Most of those who return home come back around the 25th of December," Ms. Lee said, adding that the counties have paid attention to the situation of returnees.
不过菜价基本正常，往年也是过年前这个时间上涨，但目前还没受疫情影响。
However, vegetable prices are basically normal, the previous year before the time rose, but so far has not been affected by the epidemic.
在采访中，留守的武汉市民最多说的就是，虽然也有点害怕，但希望不要引起恐慌。
In the interview, the left-behind Wuhan is the most said, although a little afraid, but hope not to cause panic.
“这个时候我不会离开武汉。
"I won't leave Wuhan at this time.
”一位驻守一线的当地记者告诉《财经》记者，武汉现在虽形势严峻，但是中央、武汉市委市政府决定封城，旨在不让病毒扩散而影响其他城市。
Wuhan is now in a serious situation, but the central government and Wuhan Municipal Government have decided to close the city to prevent the virus from spreading to other cities, a local reporter stationed on the front line told Caijing.
武汉目前已是有壮士断腕的决心。
Wuhan now has the determination to have a strong hand.
（《财经》记者王斌斌、新媒体运营编辑杨佩谦对本文亦有贡献）本文由树木计划作者【财经杂志】创作，独家发布在今日头条，未经授权，不得转载 “武汉肺炎”疫情系列报道▷ 点击图片查看责编| 黄端duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
(Caijing, Wang Binbin, editor of the new media operation Yang Peiqian) This article by Caijing Wang Binbin, editor of the new media operation, was created by Caijing magazine and published exclusively in the headlines today.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉“封城”战疫情：民航铁路高速等出城通道相继关闭。
Wuhan "closed the city" war epidemic: civil aviation railway high-speed traffic out of the city closed.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉“封城”战疫情：民航铁路高速等出城通道相继关闭";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; Wuhan & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "关闭高速公路已是迫在眉睫，此前有因为自驾出游导致疑似感染的病例。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; The closure of the freeway is imminent, following a suspected case of infection from a drive.
截至1月23日下午14时，出武汉市的高速公路开始封闭";。
As of 1400 hours on January 23, the expressway out of Wuhan has begun to close and quot;;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
