武汉，不能后退的理由。
Wuhan, can not retreat the reason.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻特约撰稿 张小莲 记者 朱莹 温潇潇 实习生 刘昱秀Play由张学友演唱，周杰伦谱曲，方文山填词的歌曲《等风雨经过》(02:54)距离武汉封城，已经过去了40天。
Zhang Xiaolian reporter Zhu Ying Wenxiaoxiao intern Liu Yu Play singing by Zhang Xueyou, Zhou Jielun composed music, Fang Wenshan filled in the song "wait for rain and rain passed" (02: 54) 40 days after the closure of Wuhan.
这40天，有人离世，有人痊愈，有人还在忍受病痛。
These 40 days, some people died, some recovered, some are still suffering from illness.
有人日夜奋战在一线，有人匆匆奔波在路上。
There were men fighting day and night, and men hurrying along the road.
有人彻夜失眠，有人在凌晨四点做了一个重要的决定……这座城市付出了沉重的代价，也熬过了最艰难的时期。
There was sleeplessness all night, and an important decision was made at four in the morning... The city paid a heavy price and survived the worst.
无数人的每一个瞬间，构成了武汉的40天。
Countless people each moment, the formation of Wuhan 40 days.
因这无数人的无数瞬间，一切在慢慢变好。
Because of these innumerable people's numberless moment, everything is slowly getting better.
这是武汉，不能后退的理由。
Wuhan, this is not a reason to retreat.
2月10日，动车组列车停放在武汉动车段的存车线上（无人机照片）。
On February 10, the EMU train was parked on the storage line of Wuhan EMV section (UAV photo).
新华社 图01无声的蔓延去年12月30日，许世庆和一帮中老年歌友去KTV唱歌。
BEIJING, Dec. 30 (Xinhua) -- Xu and a group of middle-aged and elderly singers went to KTV to sing.
年过半百，快退休了，他没别的爱好，就喜欢唱歌，这已经是他这个月第4次去KTV了。
Over fifty and retiring, he had no other hobbies and loved to sing. It was his fourth visit to KTV this month.
KTV距离华南海鲜市场只有一两公里，环境不错，每天人很多。
KTV is only a kilometre or two from the South China seafood market.
K房封闭，开着空调，大家边唱边跳，气氛欢乐。
K room closed, open air conditioning, everyone singing and dancing, happy atmosphere.
许世庆为了给大家拍视频，时而蹲下来，时而站着高高的。
Xu Shiqing to take a video for everyone, sometimes squat down, sometimes standing high.
他后来回想，应当是在这次聚会中，被感染了新冠病毒。
He later recalled that it must have been at the party that he was infected with the new crown virus.
他没有去过海鲜市场，也没有接触过动物。
He has never been to a seafood market, nor to animals.
平时要么在家里，要么在上班。
Usually either at home or at work.
他是一名央企单位的保安，一个人坐在监控室里，极少和人近距离接触，目前单位还没有其他人感染。
He is a CCE unit security, a person sitting in the control room, very little contact with people close to the unit so far no one else has been infected.
而那次聚会的歌友中，有几个人都住院了。
Several of the party's singers were hospitalized.
聚会回来后，他感到浑身发冷，还有些发烧，他关了门窗，把家里空调开得很热。
When he got back from the party, he felt cold and feverish. He shut the door and windows and turned the house on hot.
当时以为只是普通感冒。
Thought it was just a common cold.
之后有个同学聚会，大家都迁就他的上班时间，他本来有点纠结，最后还是参加了，要了一副公筷，吃得不多。
Then there was a class reunion. When everyone agreed to his work time, he got a bit tangled up. He finally joined in and ordered a pair of chopsticks.
事后他感到庆幸，他的同学没有人感染。
He was glad that none of his classmates had been infected.
1月2日，正在上班的许世庆感到很不舒服，去同济医院拍片子，医生说有点严重，建议去武汉市肺科医院，那里有全科专家正在搞发热门诊。
On January 2, Xu Shiqing, who was at work, felt ill and went to Tongji Hospital to make a film. The doctor said it was a bit serious.
随后他便去了肺科医院，没确诊，开了一些药回家吃。
He then went to the pulmonary hospital, but was not diagnosed and prescribed some medicine to go home to eat.
过了两天他发高烧，又去了肺科医院。
Two days later he had a high fever and went to the pulmonary hospital.
医生说他有肺气肿、支气管扩张，在普通病房住了两天，才转到隔离病房。
The doctor said he had emphysema, bronchiectasis and spent two days in the general ward before being transferred to the isolation ward.
在他住院的第二天，妻子也发烧入院，后来被送去金银潭医院。
The day after he was hospitalized, his wife also had a fever and was taken to the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
此后40多天里，包括春节，他都在病房中度过。
He spent more than 40 days in the hospital room, including the Spring Festival.
在许世庆发病的同时，郭琴也感觉到，来医院的发热病人开始增多了。
While Xu Shiqing was ill, Guo felt that the number of febrile patients coming to the hospital had begun to increase.
郭琴是武汉大学中南医院急诊科的一名护士。
Guo Qin is a nurse in emergency department of Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital.
去年12月底，医院下发了通知，对发热病人有一套专门的就诊流程，需要发口罩、登记信息。
At the end of December last year, the hospital issued a circular for fever patients to have a special procedure, the need to issue masks, registration information.
几天后，急诊病房改造为隔离病房，专门收治这类患者。
A few days later, the emergency ward was converted into an isolation ward for such patients.
郭琴说，急诊科风险较高，1月7日起就开始穿防护服；在此之前，他们会戴外科口罩，如确定患者有不明原因肺炎，也会穿防护服。
The emergency department is riskier and has been wearing protective clothing since January 7, Guo said, adding that before wearing surgical masks, they would also wear protective clothing if it was determined that the patient had pneumonia for unknown reasons.
1月6日，郭琴初次接触新冠肺炎患者。
On January 6, Guoqin first came into contact with patients with Newcastle pneumonia.
那人50多岁，从菜场买菜回家后接连高烧，入院时已是重症，生命体征不稳定，她在ICU参与了抢救。
The man, who was in his fifties and had a high fever since returning home from the food market, was hospitalized with severe and unstable vital signs and was involved in rescue efforts at the ICU.
之后一周，她又接触到5位后来被确诊的患者。
A week later, she was approached by five patients who were later diagnosed.
那阵子，她每天工作时间很长，有时只能睡四五个小时，直到身体出现不适。
She had been working long hours, sometimes four or five hours, until she was unwell.
1月12日，她上完10个小时的夜班，回家后身体一直发冷，到了晚上开始发烧。
On 12 January, after a 10-hour night shift, she returned home with a chilly body and a fever at night.
她怀疑自己可能感染了，没再和家人接触，自己睡一间房，吃了抗病毒的药，喝了大量的水。
She suspects she may be infected, has no contact with her family, sleeps in a room, takes antiviral drugs and drinks a lot of water.
第二天早上起来，感觉头痛、四肢疼痛，下午烧到了39摄氏度。
The next morning, I woke up with a headache, aching limbs and a fever of 39 degrees Celsius in the afternoon.
丈夫把她送去医院，查血、做CT、做核酸检测。
Her husband took her to the hospital for blood tests, CT and nucleic acid tests.
确诊结果是两天后才告诉她的。
The diagnosis was not reported to her until two days later.
当时同事只是委婉地表示，怀疑是新冠肺炎，需住院观察。
Colleagues at the time only euphemistically expressed the suspicion of Newly Coronary Pneumonia, requiring in-patient observation.
并安慰她说：“不要害怕，有我们在，我们这么优秀，对吧？”她嘴上说“我还好”，心里还是有些害怕。
And comforted her: "Don't be afraid, we are so good with us, right?" She said "I'm OK", still a little scared.
那天晚上，她住进隔离病房，和之前护理的患者住在一起。
That night, she was admitted to the isolation ward, where she lived with her former nurse.
她不由想起那个重症病人，入院后出现呼吸窘迫综合征，最后上了体外膜肺仪（ECMO），才抢救回来。
She couldn't help but think of the critically ill patient who developed respiratory distress syndrome on admission and was finally resuscitated by ECMO.
她担心，自己会不会也发展成那样？郭琴不会忘记，生平第一次作为病人躺在病床上度过的那个夜晚。
She worried that she might not develop that way, too? Guo won't forget the night he spent in his first hospital bed as a patient.
她整夜没能入睡，伴有发热、恶心、乏力和疼痛。
She did not sleep all night, with fever, nausea, fatigue and pain.
耳边回响着监护仪的滴滴声，病人的呻吟声，治疗车轮子的滚动声，还有同事急匆匆的脚步声。
I heard the drip of the monitor, the patient's groans, the rolling sound of the wheels, and the rush of colleagues' feet.
当晚值班的同事是郭琴的徒弟，一个年轻的小姑娘，刚进来一个月，“她一来接班，就说：‘郭老师，等我不忙的时候，就来陪你说话’。
On duty that night was Guo Qin's apprentice, a young girl, who had just come in for a month. "As soon as she arrived to take over, she said, 'Miss Guo, come and talk to you when I'm not busy'.
”但那天晚上她特别忙，一晚上没停。
But that night she was particularly busy, not stopping all night.
郭琴心疼她，却帮不上忙。
Guo Qin loves her, but he can't help.
“每次她停下来站在我的床边，我可以感受到，她在看着我。
"Every time she stops and stands by my bed, I can feel her looking at me.
”郭琴想到自己以前值夜班的时候，也是这样到每个病人床边，观察他们呼吸是否顺畅平稳，睡得怎么样。
"Guo, thinking of his previous night shifts, also went to each patient's bed to see if his breathing was smooth and sound and how he slept.
有老人要上厕所，还要帮忙脱穿裤子、抱上床。
Some old people to go to the toilet, but also to help take off pants, bed.
当郭琴成为那个被照顾的角色，才体会到，原来医护人员这样忙碌、辛苦，原来病人真的会不忍心麻烦护士，不好意思喊人。
When Guo Qin into the role of care, then realized that the original health care workers so busy, hard, the original patient will not bother nurses, embarrassed to call.
也许正是那个无眠之夜的某一刻，让她暗自下定决心，等病好了，就回来上班。
Perhaps it was the moment of that sleepless night that made her decide to come back to work when she was well.
02凌晨四点的朋友圈虽然早期已有一线医护感染，但大部分普通百姓真正认识新冠肺炎是从1月20日开始的。
02 The 4 a. m. circle of friends Although the first-line medical care infection has been early, but the majority of ordinary people really know the new crown pneumonia from January 20.
那天，钟南山院士在央视采访中确认，“新型冠状病毒肺炎是肯定的人传人”。
That day, academician Zhong Nan Shan confirmed in CCTV interview, "the new coronavirus pneumonia is a positive person-to-person."
然而，居住在武汉郊区盘龙城的邱贝文一家后知后觉。
However, living in the Wuhan suburb of Panlong Qiubewen family later learned.
邱贝文的丈夫万路在盘龙城开发区第一小学旁经营着一家海鲜烧烤店，基本上每星期都要去华南海鲜市场进一次货，那阵子店里的货比较充足，隔了10来天都没去市场，正好错开了出事的时间。
Her husband, Wan Lu, runs a seafood grill next to the No. 1 primary school in the Panlong City Development Zone. He basically goes to the South China Seafood Market once a week.
后来他们看报纸才知道，其中一家有感染的店就是他们经常进货的商铺。
Later they read the newspaper and found out that one of the infected shops was the one they used to buy.
那家店已经有人因新冠肺炎去世了。
Someone has died of pneumonia in that shop.
邱贝文当时有点吓到，后来又释然，“因为我们拿的不是野味，只是牛肉，而且十多天没去了，”邱贝文说，她老公也觉得很庆幸，两人之后没怎么关注新冠肺炎的讯息，以为就是“可以控制”的小传染病。
"We didn't have game, only beef, and we didn't go for more than a decade," Qiu said, adding that her husband was grateful that they had paid little attention to the new crown pneumonia because they thought it was a "manageable" infection.
1月20日左右，万路还在为店里采购各种肉类海鲜，以备营业到大年初六。
Around January 20, Wan Lu is still shopping for all kinds of meat and seafood in preparation for the opening day of the New Year.
之后两天，封城的消息传来传去，大家开始谈论肺炎，但邱贝文感觉，郊区的人对这个病没什么概念，即便在封城后，很多人也没有意识到疫情的严重性。
Over the next two days word of the siege spread, and people began to talk about pneumonia, but Churchill felt that people in the suburbs had little idea of the disease and that even after the siege, many people were unaware of the severity of the outbreak.
2月中旬封控小区之前，她还经常看到有些人出门不戴口罩，她过去劝说，对方不以为意。
Prior to the closure of the compound in mid-February, she had often seen people out of their homes without masks, whom she had persuaded not to wear.
封城后，每天看着网上各种信息，朋友圈里也在传医护人员求助的截图，邱贝文揪心到睡不着觉，心里开始有个念头在滋长。
After the closure of the city, every day looking at a variety of information, friends in the circle of doctors and nurses to call for help screenshots, Qiu Baiwen worried about sleep, the heart began to have a growing idea.
1月24日除夕夜，身边在医院上班的朋友发来一段语音，一段崩溃的哭诉。
January 24 New Year's Eve, the side of the hospital to work friends sent a voice, a collapse of the cry.
这压倒了邱贝文的“最后一根神经”，她无法再继续袖手旁观，必须要做点什么。
This overpowered Churchill's "last nerve," and she could no longer stand idly by and had to do something.
在丈夫万路眼中，邱贝文那天晚上“边看边流泪”，捧着手机在编辑朋友圈，犹豫了很久。
In the eyes of her husband Wan Lu, Qiu Bevan that night "while looking at tears," holding mobile phones in the editing circle of friends, hesitated for a long time.
他不知道妻子在想什么，先睡着了。
He didn't know what his wife was thinking. He fell asleep first.
这条后来登上微博热搜的朋友圈，在25日凌晨06:33发出来了。
The circle of friends who later boarded the Weibo fever search arrived at 6: 33 a.m. on the 25th.
1月25日，邱贝文发的朋友圈。
On January 25, Chiu Bevan's circle of friends.
除标注外，文中配图均为受访者提供“我在盘龙城，开车送161医院15分钟，送协和医院40分钟，只要医院医护人员需要吃饭，无论哪个点，提前半小时打我电话153****1171，24小时在线。
"I was in Panlong City, drove 161 hospitals for 15 minutes, and sent to Concorde Hospital for 40 minutes. Whenever hospital staff needed to eat at any point, they called me 153 * * * * 1171 24 hours in advance.
”早上六点多，第一通电话打进来了，此后连续两三天24小时电话都没停过。
The first call came in at more than six in the morning and lasted two or three days without a stop.
起初很多人打电话只是为了核实、转发，此后才主要是医护人员。
At first a lot of people called just to check and forward, and then it was mainly paramedics.
被电话声吵醒后，万路才知道妻子瞒着他做了这么大一个决定。
After being woken up by the phone, Wan Lou knew his wife had made such a big decision without telling him.
刚开始他有点蒙，“挺无语的”，但还是觉得这件事值得一做，只是要量力而行。
At first he was a bit of a monk, "quite speechless," but he still felt that it was worth doing, just within his power.
其实在发这条朋友圈之前，邱贝文已经考虑一天了。
In fact, before sending this circle of friends, Qiu Bei-wen has been thinking about a day.
“不是因为怕感染，我当时对感染一点概念都没有，我想的第一点是人手够不够，能不能做？”她事先问过6位员工，他们都很支持，但朋友圈发出来后，因家里人反对，都不能到场。
"Not because I was afraid of infection, I didn't have any idea about infection. The first thing I wanted was whether I could do it with enough manpower." She asked six staff members in advance that they were supportive, but the family objected.
正发愁着，“后援军”就到了。
Worried, the "reinforcements" arrived.
那条朋友圈她屏蔽了爸妈，却忘了屏蔽其他家人。
She shielded her parents from the circle of friends, but forgot to shield the rest of the family.
尤其亲妹妹知道后特别担心，“骂骂咧咧”地说她，“我们姐妹俩很爱彼此，她觉得我要考虑孩子，但又很想支持。
My own sister, in particular, was particularly worried when she heard this and said, "We love each other very much, and she feels like I have to think about children, but I want to support them.
”于是，妹妹带着妹夫来了，万路的弟弟和妹妹也加入了。
"So my sister came with her brother-in-law, and Wan Lu's younger brother and sister joined her.
当天上午，万路到超市采购了三千多元的蔬菜、鸡蛋和大米，同时作为唯一的厨师掌勺，其他人负责准备食材和装盒打包。
That morning, Wan Lu went to the supermarket to buy more than 3,000 vegetables, eggs and rice, and as the sole cook, the others prepared the ingredients and packed the boxes.
但除了万路，其他人平时都没怎么下过厨房，邱贝文更是连菜刀都没碰过。
But in addition to the way, other people have not been under the kitchen, Qiu Bai-wen even did not touch the kitchen knife.
第一天“手忙脚乱”地做了180份盒饭，两荤一素，每份15元。
On the first day, I made 180 boxes of rice, two meat and one vegetable, at 15 yuan each.
邱贝文说，原本想定价10元以内，但菜价贵，这个价格做不了多久就会亏到做不下去。
It was supposed to be within 10 yuan, but it was expensive and it won't be long before the price is too high, he said.
“我们是小本生意，我们一定要收费，但一分钱不赚。
"We are a small business and we have to charge for it, but we don't make a cent.
”订单量与日俱增，从两三百份涨到八九百份。
The number of orders grew steadily, from two or three hundred to eight or nine hundred.
后来婆婆叫上公公，公公又喊了爸爸，除了在家带孩子的妈妈，一大家子9口人全上阵了。
Then her mother-in-law called her father-in-law, and father-in-law, except for the mother with the children at home, a large family of nine in the battle.
最忙时，一天要做将近一千份饭。
At busiest times, you have to cook nearly a thousand meals a day.
9个人从早上8点忙到晚上12点，中间几乎没得休息。
Nine were busy from 8 a.m. to 12 p.m., with little rest between them.
有一次为了准备第二天的食材，切菜切到凌晨两三点。
Once in order to prepare food for the next day, cutting vegetables until two or three in the morning.
超市10点开门，限定人数，负责采购的公公每天一早在门口排队，第一个进去。
Supermarkets open at 10: 00, a limited number of people, in charge of purchasing Grandpa line up at the door every morning, first in.
超市人流密集，但是没有办法，他们没得选择。
Supermarkets are crowded, but they have no choice.
菜市场都关了，离得最近的批发市场环境更糟糕，那里的人连口罩都不戴，或者戴了口罩把鼻孔露出来。
The Halles are closed, and the nearest wholesale market is worse off, where people don't even wear masks, or wear masks to expose their nostrils.
在邱贝文看来，家人的全力支持，一个最主要的原因是，他们和自己一样不知道疫情有多严重，如果知道了，可能就不会同意了。
One of the main reasons for his family's full support, in Qiu Bevan's view, was that they did not know as much as they did about the outbreak, and if they did, they might not agree.
第一次去医院送餐，邱贝文记忆很深刻。
The first time I went to the hospital to deliver food, Qiu Bevan remembered deeply.
当时刮着很大的风，下着雨，街上空空荡荡，很冷清，没什么人，也见不到几辆车。
There was a strong wind, it was raining, the streets were empty and deserted, few people, not many cars.
她从来没有见过这样的武汉。
She has never seen such an Wuhan.
还没靠近医院，消毒水的味道就扑鼻而来，她在医院旁边停了车，不敢更近一步。
Before she was near the hospital, the smell of disinfectant came and she stopped by the hospital, not daring to go any closer.
四周一片寂静，她站在外面等，鸡皮疙瘩从脚底蔓延上来，整个人都在发抖。
There was a stillness about her, and she stood waiting, her goose bumps creeping out of the soles of her feet, and the whole being was trembling.
那一瞬间，她突然害怕了。
At that moment, she suddenly became frightened.
当时她只戴了一个普通的口罩。
She was wearing only an ordinary mask.
之后再想备些医用口罩、酒精、消毒水，已经很难买到了，不得不求助亲友。
And then want to prepare some medical masks, alcohol, disinfectant, has been very difficult to buy, had to resort to friends and relatives.
尽管如此，她还是庆幸自己做了这件事情。
Still, she was glad she had done it.
因为那段时间，是一线医护人员最难熬的时期，“什么都缺”，缺吃、缺用、缺防护、缺人手，连上下班也成了一个难题。
Because that was the hardest time for front-line health care workers, "short of everything," lack of food, lack of protection, lack of staff, even to work has become a problem.
骨科医院护士发给邱贝文的感谢短信03多休息一刻钟也好在邱贝文考虑为医护人员送餐的同一天，住在汉阳区的张伟加入了接送医护人员的志愿者大军。
A thank-you note from an orthopaedic hospital nurse sent Qiu Bevan a quarter of an hour off. On the same day Qiu Beven considered delivering meals to medical staff, Zhang Wei, who lives in Hanyang district, joined the army of volunteers to transport medical staff.
张伟今年31岁，长期在泰国做射击教练，1月9日回武汉，陪父母过年。
Zhang Wei, 31, has been a shooting coach in Thailand for a long time and returned to Wuhan on January 9 to spend the New Year with his parents.
除夕中午，他看到越野发烧友群里发了招募车队志愿者的帖子，立即扫码入群，当时群里只有几十人，接活儿全凭自愿。
At midday on New Year's Eve, he saw an off-road enthusiast in the crowd, recruitment of volunteers, immediately swept into the crowd, only a few dozen people, the work is entirely voluntary.
他当晚接了一个护士去医院上班，还送了一批定向捐赠的防护服给三个指定医院。
That night he took a nurse to work at the hospital and delivered a consignment of donated protective clothing to three designated hospitals.
其中200件送给湖北省中医院。
Two hundred of them were sent to Hubei TCM.
到了医院，门口站着一位50多岁的男医生，穿着白大褂、皮鞋，仅戴着医用帽和外科口罩。
At the hospital, in front of the door stood a man in his fifties, wearing a white coat, leather shoes and only a medical hat and surgical mask.
那个画面令张伟难以忘怀：一个年近花甲的男医生，看到防护服来了，一边拍手一边在台阶上跳，“太好了！太好了！”他一连说了好几次，然后迫不及待地打电话，让科室人员推着小推车来收货。
Zhang Wei can not forget that picture: a male doctor, when he saw the suit coming, clapped his hands and jumped on the steps, "Great! Great!" He said it several times in a row, then he couldn't wait to call the office staff to pick up the trolley.
“感谢你们！你们都是好人。
"Thank you! You are all good people.
”医生真挚地说道。
'said the doctor earnestly.
仅仅过了一晚上，群成员就增加到500人了。
In just one night, the group grew to 500.
张伟又加了十几个志愿者群，哪个群有消息，需要用车，他有时间都会去接。
Zhang Wei added a dozen more volunteers, which group has news, need to use the car, he has time to pick up.
“我这个人用武汉话说就是‘岔巴子’，喜欢管闲事，爱揽事儿。
"I used to call it a 'fork in the road' in Wuhan and liked to meddle and do things.
”张伟自侃说。
"said Zhang.
2月22日晚上，张伟给湖北省中医院光谷院区送捐赠的柚子。
On the evening of February 22, Zhang Wei delivered a donation of grapefruit to the Guanggu courtyard of Hubei Provincial Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine.
从除夕晚上至今，他每天接送医护人员上下班，有空就去运送物资，目前大概累计接送过200余人次。
From New Year's Eve to the present, he has taken medical workers to and from work every day.
父母担心他，也劝过他：“你冒着生命危险，至于吗？”但张伟觉得，医护人员才是冒着生命危险在救人，“我还年轻，抵抗力好一些。
Worried about him, his parents advised him, "Do you risk your life?" But Zhang Wei felt that the paramedics were risking their lives to save lives.
”刚封城那几天，医院最缺防护物资。
In the days since the city was sealed, hospitals lacked protective equipment.
张伟白天拉物资往医院送，跟调配物资的负责人和捐赠人联系，问可不可以留几套防护服给志愿者用，他们同意后，就给他发一两套防护服。
Zhang Wei pulled supplies to the hospital during the day, contacted the person in charge of the deployment of the supplies and the donor and asked if he could leave some suits for the volunteers.
每次他拿到防护服就放在副驾上，接送医护人员时送给他们。
Every time he got his suit, he put it on his back and gave it to the paramedics.
“医护人员距离危险最近，比我们更需要。
"The paramedics are nearest to danger and need them more than we do.
”他说。
'he said.
泰国的同事听说他在做志愿者，给他寄了200个N95口罩。
His Thai colleague heard that he was volunteering and sent him 200 N95 masks.
他出门就戴个口罩，此外没有别的防护措施。
He wore a mask when he went out, and had no other protection.
张伟等志愿者为江汉中西医结合医院装卸物资送完物资后，对接医生在张伟的车上签收单据。
Zhang Wei and other volunteers for the Chinese and Western medicine combined with the hospital loading and unloading supplies after docking doctors in Zhang Wei's car to sign receipts.
大年初二早上9点多，他去市第五医院接一位下夜班的护士。
On New Year's Day, he went to the Fifth Municipal Hospital to pick up a night nurse.
两天前，这家医院成为武汉第一批被征用的七家定点医院之一，也是汉阳区唯一收治发热病人的定点医院。
Two days ago, the hospital became one of the first seven designated hospitals to be requisitioned in Wuhan and the only one in Hanyang to treat febrile patients.
汉阳区所有发热病人、新冠肺炎患者一下都涌到第五医院，人满为患。
Hanyang District all febrile patients, new crown pneumonia patients immediately poured into the Fifth Hospital, overcrowding.
护士告诉他，封城后公共交通停运，有时求助找不到车送，便骑共享单车上班。
The nurse told him that public transportation was suspended after the siege and that sometimes he rode a bicycle to work when he could not find a car.
她住在靠近沌口开发区的地方，距离医院十几公里。
She lives close to the illegible port development zone, a dozen kilometers from the hospital.
骑一两个小时到医院，再爬十几层楼的楼梯（电梯是污染区），再穿上防护服，连续工作8个小时，中间不能脱，不能吃饭，不能喝水，不能上厕所。
Take an hour or two to the hospital, climb the stairs of a dozen floors (the elevator is a contaminated area), put on protective clothing and work for eight hours in a row, unable to take off food, drink water or use the toilet.
张伟听完后“特别心疼”，在他眼里，这位护士不过是一个“90后的小姑娘”。
Zhang Wei listened to the "special pain", in his eyes, the nurse is only a "90 after the little girl."
他还听说一些医护人员家住汉阳区，医院在江对面的武昌，找不到车，不得不从三环大桥走过去上班。
He also heard that some medical personnel live in Hanyang District, the hospital across the river in Wuchang, can not find a car, had to walk from the Three Ring Bridge to work.
他恨不得在车上贴张纸，写“医护人员招手即停!”但打印店都关门了，他只能多看看群消息。
He would have liked to have put a piece of paper on the car and said, "Pardon when the paramedics beckon!" But the print shop was closed, so he could only look at the crowd.
他每天早上5:30起床，会收到6000多条新消息。
He gets up at 5: 30 every morning and receives more than 6,000 new messages.
查看完重要消息，就要把群聊记录删掉，不然手机会卡死。
After checking the important information, we have to delete the group chat records, or the mobile phone will be stuck.
每天晚上，他会把第二天早上的接送任务尽量排满，几点钟，去哪，接谁，送到哪，安排好再睡觉。
Every night he would pack up the following morning's pickup, at what time, where, who, where, and where he would be sent, and arrange to sleep.
早上6点出门时，父母还在睡觉。
My parents were still sleeping when I left home at 6 am.
一般送完上早班的医护人员，他再吃早饭。
Usually after the morning shift medical personnel, he has breakfast.
运气好的话，遇到卖早点的店铺，可以吃到热乎乎的东西；运气不好，只能到超市买点东西垫垫肚子。
If you are lucky enough to meet an early-selling store, you can get something hot. Luckily, you have to buy something to cushion your stomach at the supermarket.
等到9点，上夜班的医护人员下班，他再过去接。
By nine o'clock, the night-shift paramedics were off duty and he picked them up again.
早班的医护人员基本都是8点上班，他不能出发太早，冬天早起困难，医护人员都很疲惫。
The morning shift workers are usually at work at 8 o'clock. He can't start early. He gets up early in the winter.
有次他和家附近的一个护士约好时间，但第二天早上，临时需要接一个医生去省中医院光谷院区，6点多给护士打电话，问她10分钟后可不可以出门，当时护士还在睡觉。
Once he made an appointment with a nurse near his home, but the next morning he had to take a doctor to the Guanggu District of the provincial TCM Hospital. At 6 o'clock he telephoned the nurse and asked if she could go out in 10 minutes while the nurse was still asleep.
等快到她家楼下时，她打电话说不用接她了，一会儿她再想办法去医院，她想多睡一会儿。
When she got to her house downstairs, she called and said she didn't have to pick her up. She tried to get to the hospital later.
这件事让张伟挺不好意思的。
Zhang Wei was rather embarrassed about this.
他是一个时间观念很强的人，和别人约好基本不迟到。
He is a person with a strong sense of time and will be almost never late for his appointment.
平时医护人员上车地点分散，下车地点也分散，路程也比较长，中途还要停车，但他必须在早上8点前将每一个医护人员送到医院。
Usually the place where the medics get on the bus is scattered, the place of getting off is also scattered, the distance is longer, and he has to stop over halfway, but he has to take every medic to the hospital by 8 a.m.
如果早班的医护人员迟到了，意味着夜班的医护人员没办法正点下班，“大家都很辛苦，能多休息一刻钟也好。
The late arrival of the morning shift meant that the night shift workers were unable to work on time. "Everyone was working hard and getting an extra 15 minutes of rest.
”有一次早上9点多，张伟去市第四医院接三个护士下夜班，她们都住在汉阳区，距离他家不远。
One morning at more than nine o'clock, Zhang Wei went to the Fourth Municipal Hospital to pick up three nurses for the night shift.
送完后，他回家吃早饭，一边刷群消息，突然看到刚刚送回去的三个护士的求车信息，要再从家送到医院。
When he had finished, he went home for breakfast, brushing news of the three nurses he had just sent home to ask for a ride to hospital.
他马上联系她们，出门去接。
He contacted them immediately and went out to pick them up.
第一个护士上车后解释说，领导刚来电话，上早班的两个护士晕倒了，需要两个人过去顶班。
The first nurse got on the bus and explained that the leader had just called and the two nurses from the morning shift had fainted.
“刚刚下了夜班，回家不到半小时，又要去上8个小时的早班。
"Just got off the graveyard shift and went home less than half an hour before going on an eight-hour morning shift.
”张伟没法想象这种高负荷的工作状态，在此之前他也不知道，医院的人手这么紧张。
Zhang Wei could not imagine working at such a high workload, and he had no idea that the hospital was so staffed until then.
类似的情况邱贝文也遇到过。
Winston Churchill had a similar experience.
1月26日下午1点，她把150份盒饭送到汉口医院，当时医护人员正在重症病房里忙碌，没办法出来取餐，她一直等到下午3点，才接到对方电话，让她把饭放在门卫室。
At 1 p.m. on 26 January, she took 150 boxes of rice to Hankou Hospital, where medical staff were too busy to get out of the intensive care unit until 3 p.m., when she received a call asking her to leave her food in the janitor's room.
但返回店里没多久，又接到电话说，他们现在有紧急任务，没时间吃饭，希望把这些饭免费送给其他医院。
Not long after they returned to the store, they got a call saying they had urgent business and had no time to eat and wanted to give it away free of charge to other hospitals.
她和志愿者又返回医院。
She and the volunteers returned to the hospital.
这时盒饭已被搬到一楼的食堂。
By this time the lunch box had been moved to the cafeteria on the first floor.
她不敢进食堂，志愿者替她进去，把150份盒饭抬上车，然后辗转送到各个医护人员安置点。
She did not dare to enter the canteen, volunteers for her to go in, 150 boxes of rice to the car, and then toss and transfer to various health-care places.
再次回到店里时，已经晚上8点了。
It was eight o'clock in the evening when I came back.
04有人逝去，有人归来当护士的第15年，郭琴住进了自己工作的病房，成了医院第一个感染新冠肺炎的医护人员。
In his fifteenth year as a nurse, Guo moved into the hospital room where he worked, becoming the first hospital worker to contract pneumonia.
幸运的是，她也是第一个痊愈的病人。
Luckily, she was also the first patient to recover.
1月16日，住院三天后，郭琴退了烧，各项检查都显示情况稳定。
On 16 January, after three days in hospital, Guo returned to fever and tests showed that he was in stable condition.
隔离病房15张床都住满了，还加了两三张床，但床位还是很紧张。
The isolation ward was full of 15 beds, plus two or three, but the beds were tight.
郭琴便出院回父母家隔离了。
Guo Qin was discharged from the hospital and separated from his parents.
父母家有两层楼，可以分开住。
My parents have two floors and can live separately.
直到此时，父母才知道她感染了新冠肺炎。
Only then did her parents know that she was infected with pneumonia.
一开始，母亲没有很在意，有时候不听劝，非要进她房间聊天，还不戴口罩。
At first, the mother did not care very much, sometimes do not listen to advice, insisted to enter her room to chat, not wearing a mask.
父亲关注得多，就比较担心她，老是问：“你要吃药啊，你什么药都不用吃吗？你要不要打电话问下专家？会不会越来越严重了？这好得了吗？”隔离期间，郭琴每天在家看书、听音乐，为了加深对病毒的认识，还看了SARS和埃博拉的纪录片，以及相关医学文献。
The father was more concerned about her and kept asking, "Do you need any medicine? Would you like to call an expert? Is it getting worse? Is that all right?" Guo read books and music at home every day during the isolation period.
她说，很久没有这样休息了。
It's been a long time, she said.
但看着工作群里的同事越来越忙碌，人员越来越紧张，她只想快点回去跟他们并肩战斗。
But as her co-workers get busier and more nervous, she just wants to get back to work with them.
1月27日第二次复查，结果也是阴性。
The second review, on 27 January, also yielded negative results.
当时，她第一反应是终于可以去见孩子了。
At the time, her first reaction was that she was finally able to see her child.
但转念一想，上班了还是要继续隔离，还是不能见面。
But on second thought, I still want to continue isolation at work, or can not meet.
第二天，郭琴就回去上班了。
The next day, Guo Qin went back to work.
十几个同事以拥抱迎接她，说咱们的英雄回来了。
A dozen colleagues greeted her with hugs and said our hero had returned.
其实她并非无所畏惧，她只是觉得，自己是第一个感染并痊愈的医护人员，这对同事是一种激励，对病人而言则是安慰，是战胜病毒的信心。
In fact, she is not fearless, she just feel that she is the first infected and healed health care workers, this is an inspiration to colleagues, comfort to patients, confidence to overcome the virus.
中南医院最早痊愈后返岗的急诊中心护士郭琴。
Central South Hospital after the earliest recovery return to the emergency center nurses Guo Qin.
返岗后，郭琴像往常一样护理危重病人。
After returning to work, Guo Qin cared for the critically ill as usual.
不同的是，这次需要全副武装地面对“敌人”。
The difference is that this time the enemy needs to be fully armed.
为了节省一点物资，她和同事们每天只穿一套防护服，尽量不喝水不上厕所；防护服很闷，一活动就会出汗，湿了又干，干了又湿；口罩戴着也闷，有时候喘气都有点困难；护目镜容易起雾，老是看不清楚；长期接触消毒水、戴手套，手也长了湿疹，出现干燥裂痕……她无暇在意这些不适感，只要一穿上防护服，就步履匆匆地忙到停不下来。
In order to save money, she and her colleagues wear only one suit a day and try not to drink too much water to go to the toilet; suits are stuffy, sweating, wet and dry and wet; masks are stuffy and sometimes difficult to breathe; goggles foggy and often blurred; long contact with disinfectant, gloves, eczema and dry cracks in her hands.
“我们这层楼有三十多个病人，这里的护士走路都是连走带跑的。
There are more than thirty patients on our floor, and the nurses here are walking and walking.
”这是许世庆住院这么长时间的最大感受。
"This is Xu Shiqing hospitalized for so long the biggest feeling.
有一天他问早班护士，你们什么时候吃饭，护士说（下午）两点半下班后再吃。
One day he asked the morning nurse when you were going to have dinner, and the nurse said (afternoon) that he would eat after work at half past two.
在许世庆眼里，这些护士跟自己的女儿差不多大，但女儿也没有像她们这样无微不至地照顾自己，“真的是特级护理”。
In Xu's eyes, the nurses are about the same age as his daughter, but she does not take care of herself as meticulously as they do.
他只要看到医护人员，心里就很踏实。
The sight of the paramedics reassured him.
刚住院那两天，他吃不下饭，只能喝一点粥，吃个鸡蛋白；一躺下来就呼吸困难，只能坐着。
In the first two days of hospitalization, he could not eat anything but porridge, eating an egg white; once lying down, he had difficulty breathing and had to sit.
连续发烧十几天，一直在喘气，直到烧退了才不喘。
I had a fever for ten days and was gasping until it was out of breath.
心电监护仪用了二十多天，每天接受吸氧、雾化、抗病毒等治疗。
The ECG monitor was used for more than 20 days and received daily treatment for oxygen inhalation, atomization and antiviral treatment.
1月28日，妻子出院回家，女儿当天下午开始发烧，第二天烧到39摄氏度以上，后来也住进了医院。
On 28 January, the wife was discharged from the hospital and her daughter began to have a fever the same afternoon, burning more than 39 degrees Celsius the next day, and was later admitted to hospital.
他和爱人生病，他都不紧张，但女儿一生病，他当天晚上睡不着觉，“心都在绞痛”。
He was not nervous when he and his wife were ill, but when his daughter was ill, he could not sleep that night.
直到几天后女儿病情稳定了，他才松了一口气。
It was not until a few days later that his daughter was stabilized that he breathed a sigh of relief.
一家三口都能住上院，他觉得运气挺好的。
The family of three could live in the Upper House, and he felt lucky.
但有些人就没有那么幸运了。
But some people are not so lucky.
他有一个歌友，69岁，在圈子里特别活跃，1月份还在组织活动。
He has a fellow singer, 69, who is particularly active in the community and organized events in January.
1月20日开始发病，到门诊打针，在朋友圈求助，等了10天，没排到床位，2月1日在家里去世了。
She began her illness on 20 January and died at home on 1 February, after a 10-day waiting period at the clinic, where she sought help from friends and did not reach her bed.
1月底到2月上旬，正是医院床位最紧张的时候。
The hospital bed was at its peak between late January and early February.
许世庆很快意识到这点。
Xu Shiqing soon realized this.
2月4日，住在硚口区的岳父开始咳嗽，连续发烧四天，去社区发热门诊拍CT，显示肺部感染，只能在家等做核酸检测，身边无人照顾。
On 4 February, the father-in-law living in the Zhangkou District started coughing and had a fever for four days. He went to the community fever clinic to take a CT scan showing lung infection and had to wait at home for a nucleic acid test.
两天后被送去隔离点。
Two days later, he was sent to quarantine.
2月7日，许世庆入院的第34天，因停了9天药，病情复发，咳嗽、胸闷，又去拍片抽血，还打了青霉素。
On February 7, Xu Shiqing was admitted to hospital 34 days, due to a 9-day suspension of the drug, relapse, cough, chest tightness, and to take a blood sample, but also hit penicillin.
之后医生每次来查房，都让他叫家人去买丙球蛋白，说可以提高免疫力，帮助治疗。
After each visit, the doctor asked his family to buy propolis protein, said that it can improve immunity and help treatment.
可是谁帮他买呢？女儿在住院，妻子刚出院在家吸氧，一动就喘不上气，也没有交通工具。
But who bought it for himDaughter was in hospital, his wife had just been discharged from the hospital to take in oxygen, and she was breathless and had no means of transportation.
过了几天，医生告诉他，可能要把他转去方舱医院。
A few days later, the doctor told him that he might be transferred to the cabin hospital.
他表示愿意，毕竟自己一直不转阴，应该把病床留给更需要的重症病人，他中午清理好物品，随时准备走。
After all, he said he was willing to stay in the shade and should leave his bed for the more needy patients in serious condition, cleaning up at noon and getting ready to go.
那段时间，好消息和坏消息总是交替传来，让人的心也跟着起起落落。
In those days, the good news and the bad news always alternate, making people's hearts rise and fall.
2月12日，女儿出院回家。
On 12 February, the daughter was discharged from the hospital.
16日，妻子再次查出双肺疑似感染，晚上11点被送往酒店隔离。
On the 16th, his wife was again diagnosed with a suspected infection of both lungs and was taken to the hotel for isolation at 11 p.m.
同一天，许世庆也终于出院了。
On the same day, Xu Shiqing was finally discharged from hospital.
那天下午，他骑车骑了十几公里，大概两个小时，回到家已经天黑了。
That afternoon, he rode a dozen kilometers, about two hours, and got home in the dark.
他感觉到久违的自由。
He felt the freedom of a long time ago.
他活到56岁，已经送走了6个亲人。
He lived to be 56 years old and had already sent six relatives away.
每去一次殡仪馆，都觉得，人生活着就是胜利。
Every time I go to a funeral home, I feel that living is a victory.
经过这场大病，他更加爱惜身体，决定在家好好调养，一年内不再唱歌，担心对肺不好。
After this serious illness, he more cherish the body, decided to stay at home and proper care, a year no longer singing, worried about lung bad.
许世庆与同房病友合唱《感恩的心》，送给医护人员。
Xu Shiqing sang "Gratitude Heart" with his roommate and gave it to the medical staff.
如今，四个人都已出院。
All four are now discharged from the hospital.
05不能后退的理由现在回头看，邱贝文觉得当时做这个决定“太冲动”。
In retrospect, Churchill found the decision "too impulsive" to make.
至今，她给武汉八成以上的医院都送过餐，接触了很多医护人员和志愿者，才了解到原来疫情比她想象的严重得多。
So far, she has given food to more than 80% of Wuhan hospitals, contact a lot of medical personnel and volunteers, just realize that the original epidemic than she thought much more serious.
她说，如果一开始就知情，她应该不会去做这件事。
'If she had known from the start, she wouldn't have done it, 'she says.
“因为我就是个很普通的人，我有家庭有孩子，没有人是不怕死的。
"Because I am a very ordinary person, I have a family with children, and no one is afraid of death.
”但是她没有后悔过。
But she had not regretted it.
“因为需要你的人太多了，每一个向你求助的人，你根本没有办法拒绝。
"Because there are so many people who need you, there's no way you can refuse anyone who asks you for help.
当他们开口说出第一句，你可能就受不了了。
When they say the first sentence, you may not be able to stand it.
你明显能感觉到，他们冲在最前面，已经为你挡了很多东西。
You can obviously feel that they are in the front and have already got a lot of things in your way.
就像打仗一样，必须有一排兵去挡那些子弹。
Just as in war, there must be a platoon of soldiers to keep out the bullets.
这个时候，我觉得是个人都不会说退，也退不了。
At this time, I feel that is the individual will not say retreat, also cannot return.
”有一次，她给洪山区一家骨科医院送500份盒饭，四个护士出来迎接，每个人脸上都有压痕，看样子是刚刚脱下防护服，还没来得及穿外套，只披着一件白大褂，里面的秋衣也很薄。
On one occasion, she sent 500 boxes of rice to an orthopaedic hospital in Hongshan District. Four nurses came out to greet them, each with indentations on his face.
邱贝文站的地方离医院有一段距离，走在最前面的那个女孩，一路小跑跑过来，稚嫩的嗓音喊着：“姐姐！姐姐！”然后在离她两米远的地方，停住了。
Qiu Baiwen station is some distance from the hospital, walk in the front of the girl, running along the road, the immature voice cried: "Sister! Sister!" and then two meters away from her, stopped.
那一瞬间，她突然有了勇气，一点都不怕了。
All at once she had courage, and she was not afraid.
不知道是因为“姐姐”这个称呼，让她想起了自己的妹妹，还是因为，这个女孩只有23岁，一副青春单纯的模样，可能还不知道前面的路会怎么样，但说出的话却透露出一股坚硬，像极了20岁的自己。
I don't know if it was the name "sister" that reminded her of her sister, or whether it was because the girl was only 23 and looked so young and innocent that she might not know what the road ahead would be like, but the words she uttered revealed a hardness that resembled her 20-year-old self.
第二天，女孩告诉她，他们医院要开始收治重症肺炎患者了。
The next day, the girl told her that her hospital was about to begin treating patients with severe pneumonia.
志愿者张伟也遇到过一个年纪很小的女护士，她一路上很安静，没有说话，下车时送给他一盒阿比多尔，她说这药是医院给内部人特发的，有预防作用。
Volunteers Zhang Wei also met a very young female nurse who was quiet all the way, did not speak, and when she got off the bus she gave him a box of Abidol, which she said was specially given to insiders by the hospital and had a preventive effect.
当时这个药在武汉已经断货，后来他在群里看到有人发图片求药，才知道它这么珍贵。
At that time, the medicine in Wuhan has been out of stock, later he saw in the group pictures asked for medicine, just know it is so precious.
在张伟看来，医护人员都很善良。
In Zhang Wei's view, the medical staff are very kind.
一个白头发的男医生令他印象深刻，那人很斯文，也很执着。
He was impressed by a white-haired male doctor, who was gentle and persistent.
“早上我送他上早班，到了医院后，他不让我走，让我等他一下，然后急匆匆跑进医院。
"I took him to the morning shift, and when he got to the hospital, he wouldn't let me go. He told me to wait for him.
过了一会儿，他把医院里的紫外线灯牵出来，要给我的车消毒。
After a while, he pulled out the ultraviolet light from the hospital to disinfect my car.
到处找接线板，我说我有准备消毒液，但他坚持要连紫外线灯，问了保安、同事，找了很多人，最后实在找不到这么长的接线板，他才不好意思地让我走了。
Searching for the switchboard, I said I was ready to take the disinfectant, but he insisted on turning on the ultraviolet light, asking the security guard, his colleagues, and a lot of people.
”接送医护人员这件事，张伟说他会一直做下去，直到不需要他的时候。
"Zhang Wei said he would continue to do it until he was no longer needed.
邱贝文也抱有同样的想法。
Churchill shared this sentiment.
最近因为送餐的饭店多了起来，单量回落到两三百份，轻松了许多。
Recently due to more restaurants to send food, the volume fell back to two or three hundred, relaxed a lot.
如今，医院不缺吃不缺喝了，她开始琢磨自己还能做些什么。
Now that the hospital was in need of food and drink, she began to wonder what else she could do.
听说免疫力强，病毒不易入侵，她就想，要不要做些汤给医护人员喝。
Hear immunity is strong, virus is not easy to invade, she thinks, want to make soup to give medics drink.
她想起自己坐月子时喝的鸡汤，就去超市买了五千多元的黑土鸡，加上山药等配料，做了几百份汤，免费送给医护人员喝。
Remembering the chicken soup she had drunk while sitting on her stomach, she went to the supermarket and bought more than 5,000 kinds of black-earth chickens, plus yams and other ingredients, and made hundreds of soups and gave them free to medical workers.
本来只想送一两次，但鸡汤受到一致好评，其他没喝到的人都说想喝，邱贝文就决定再送几次。
I only wanted to give it once or twice, but the chicken soup was well received and everyone else who didn't drink said they wanted to drink it. Qiu Beven decided to send it a few more times.
能被他们需要，她觉得“超开心”。
She felt "super happy" to be needed by them.
邱贝文夫妇做给医护人员喝的免费鸡汤。
Mr. and Mrs. Churchill made free chicken soup for the paramedics.
大概一个星期前，邱贝文对疫情还比较悲观，担心这担心那，还跟丈夫说，万一自己真的感染了，也挺值得的。
About a week ago, Qiu Bei-wen was pessimistic about the outbreak, worried about it, and told her husband that it would be worth it if he did get infected.
丈夫觉得她太焦虑了，劝她说，有这么多人在努力，情况必然会越来越好。
The husband felt that she was too anxious and advised her that with so many people working hard, things would get better and better.
2月21日，一个护士给她发消息，说他们现在不缺东西了，各方面都在往好的方向发展。
On February 21, a nurse sent her a message that they did not need anything anymore and that everything was going well.
她看到之后特别欣慰，期待在不久的将来，武汉恢复往日的生机。
When she saw this, she was particularly pleased and looked forward to Wuhan's return to its former vitality in the near future.
她向记者介绍自己的家乡：武汉是一座很热闹的城市，很有市井烟火气。
She introduced her hometown to reporters: Wuhan is a very busy city, there is a lot of fireworks.
大家每天起得很早，一定要去吃早餐，早餐很丰富。
Everyone gets up very early every day, we must go to have breakfast, breakfast is very rich.
武汉人也很喜欢吃宵夜，不论有没有钱，都喜欢，这是一种生活方式，尤其到了夏天，你会发现，男女老少都在外面吃宵夜。
Wuhan people also like to eat supper, whether money or not, it is a way of life, especially in the summer, you will find that men, women and children are out for supper.
武汉没有夜晚，走到哪里都是灯，时时刻刻都有人，到处都有24小时的店……最后她说：“很高兴认识你，我叫邱贝文，疫情过后一定要来武汉玩，它是座充满热情的城市，像我。
Wuhan has no night, everywhere are lights, people everywhere, 24-hour shops... Finally she said: "Nice to meet you, my name is Qiu Baiwen, after the epidemic must come to Wuhan, it is a passionate city like me.
”元宵节，邱贝文一家为医护人员准备了汤圆。
"On the Lantern Festival, the Qiu Beven family prepared Tang Yuan for the medical staff.
墙上写的是邱贝文的座右铭：人总要仰望点什么，向着高远，支撑起生命和灵魂。
On the wall was written the motto of Qiu Bei-wen: one must always look up to something and stand tall, supporting life and soul.
（文中张伟为化名。
(In this article Zhang Wei alias.
澎湃新闻记者葛明宁、实习生胡友美对本文亦有贡献）戳这里进入“全国新型冠状病毒感染病例实时地图”↓↓↓本期编辑 邢潭推荐阅读。
Peng Pai journalist Ge Mingning, intern Hu Youmei also contributed to this article. He entered here, PhD, PhD, PhD, PhD, PhD, PhD, PhD, PhD, for a new type of coronavirus infection.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉，不能后退的理由。
Wuhan, can not retreat the reason.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉，不能后退的理由";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Wuhan, a reason not to fall back;;
var msg_desc = "无数人的每一个瞬间，构成了武汉的40天。
var msg _ desc = & quot; every moment of innumerable people makes up Wuhan's 40 days.
因这无数人的无数瞬间，一切都在慢慢变好。
Because of these innumerable people's numberless moment, everything is slowly getting better.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '“湖北疫情依旧严峻，坚决不能放松”',。
"Hubei still has a serious epidemic and resolutely not to relax" & amp; apos; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '湖北：监狱、看守所原则上只进不出',。
Hubei: Not at all in prison or detention centre.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '3省5个监狱共确诊555例，司法部谈疫情细节漏洞',。
Ritle: & apos; 555 cases were diagnosed in five prisons in three provinces. & nbsp; & # 160; & # 45; & Justice & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
