武汉B面：封城下的经济重镇。
Wuhan B surface: the economic city under the seal.
郭儒逸。
Guo Ruyi.
商业人物                      。
Business people.
商业人物。
Business people.
定义中国商业力量。
Defining China's commercial power.
作者：郭儒逸来源：商业人物（ID：biz-leaders)武汉封城已超过40天，这座长江边上的千万人口特大城市，仍然处在疫情的中心。
Wuhan, a mega-city with a population of tens of millions along the Yangtze River, remains at the center of the epidemic for more than 40 days.
在此之前，武汉一直扮演着中国经济地理中心的角色。
Until then, Wuhan had been playing the role of China's economic geography center.
昔日的“东方芝加哥”、九省通衢之地，曾有过太多荣光时刻。
The thoroughfare of the Orient, the thoroughfare of nine provinces, has had too many moments of glory.
而突如其来的疫情，正裹挟着如今现代化的武汉。
The sudden outbreak of the disease, is now wrapped up in the modern Wuhan.
这座华中重镇的种种经济元素，均在遭受一场特殊的挑战。
The economic elements of central China are all facing a particular challenge.
风气之先武汉地处湖北省东部，长江及其最大支流汉江在城中汇聚，隋唐以来便有“江城”之称。
Wuhan is located in the eastern part of Hubei Province, the Yangtze River and its largest tributary Han River converged in the city, since Sui and Tang Dynasty known as "Jiangcheng."
此外，长江还与京广铁路在此交汇，构成内陆最大的水陆空交通枢纽。
In addition, the Yangtze River and the Beijing-Guangzhou railway intersect here, constituting the largest inland land, sea and air transport hub.
自第二次鸦片战争后汉口被迫开埠，从传统商业市镇向近代都会转型，武汉就开启其现代化进程。
Since the Second Opium War Hankou was forced to open a port, from the traditional commercial towns to the modern metropolis, Wuhan began its modernization process.
经过四十年改革开放，作为中部六省份唯一的副省级市，武汉已成为长江经济带的核心城市。
After 40 years of reform and opening up, Wuhan, the only provincial city in the six central provinces, has become the core city of the Yangtze River economic belt.
武汉土地面积约8569平方公里，截至2019年，户籍人口超过900万。
Wuhan has an area of approximately 8,569 square kilometres and, as of 2019, has a population of more than 9 million.
2014年其GDP首次闯入万亿大关，2018年GDP总量接近1.5万亿，在内地16个“万亿GDP城市”中位列第九，排在东部地区的杭州、南京前面。
Its GDP entered the trillion-dollar mark for the first time in 2014, reaching nearly $1.5 trillion in 2018, ranking ninth among the 16 "trillion GDP cities" on the mainland, ahead of Hangzhou and Nanjing in the eastern region.
据国家统计局核算，去年湖北全省GDP突破4.5万亿，居全国第七位，在中部仅次于河南省。
Hubei province topped 4.5 trillion last year, ranking seventh in the country and second only to Henan province in the central region, according to the National Bureau of Statistics.
这一规模超过波兰、瑞典和比利时等国家经济总量，相当于一个中等经济体量的发达国家水平。
This is larger than the economic aggregates of countries such as Poland, Sweden and Belgium and is comparable to that of a developed country with a medium-sized economy.
其中，武汉在湖北可谓“一家独大”。
Among them, Wuhan in Hubei can be described as a "monopoly."
以2018年数据为例，其GDP规模占全省比重超过三分之一，而省内其他两强襄阳和宜昌，经济总量均不到武汉的30%。
Taking 2018 data as an example, its GDP accounts for more than one-third of the province's total, while the other two largest cities in the province, Xiangyang and Yichang, account for less than 30% of Wuhan.
此次疫情尤其严重的黄冈、孝感等地，虽然同处武汉城市圈内，但与武汉的差距则更是显著。
This outbreak is particularly serious Huanggang, filial piety and other places, although the same Wuhan city circle, but the gap with Wuhan is more significant.
去年湖北人均GDP首次迈过1万美元，武汉在省内同样一骑绝尘。
Last year per capita GDP in Hubei Province stepped over $10,000 for the first time, Wuhan in the province also ride the dust.
在人均可支配收入方面，2018年武汉全市居民人均可支配收入达到4.21万元，在中部六省份的87个市（州）排名中，仅次于长沙的4.46万元，居于第二位。
In terms of per capita disposable income, the city's per capita disposable income reached 42,100 yuan in 2018, second only to Changsha's 44,600 yuan in 87 cities and counties in the six central provinces.
截至去年11月，武汉轨道交通运营线路共有9条，总运营里程达339千米，线路长度居国内第五位、中西部第一位。
As of November last year, Wuhan Rail Transit Line had 9 lines, with a total operating mileage of 339 km, ranking fifth in length in China and number one in the central and western regions.
占地2100亩的武汉动车段，则是全球规模最大的高速列车检修基地，占全国动车组检修任务总量的40%左右。
Wuhan, which occupies 2100 mu of land, is the largest maintenance base for high-speed trains in the world, accounting for about 40% of the total number of maintenance tasks in the EMU.
从武汉乘坐高铁出发，五个小时左右可到达北京、上海、重庆、深圳和香港；而搭乘110多条国内客运航线，2小时航程也可以覆盖到全国各主要城市。
Wuhan from the high-speed rail from Beijing, Shanghai, Chongqing, Shenzhen and Hong Kong about five hours, and more than 110 domestic passenger routes, the two-hour flight can also cover the major cities of the country.
武汉是国内制造业产业链上的关键一环。
Wuhan is a key link in the domestic manufacturing industry chain.
在“十二五”初期，当时市政府就提出打造电子信息、汽车、装备制造、钢铁等6个“千亿产业集群”。
At the beginning of the 12th Five-Year Plan period, the city government proposed to build six "trillion-billion-dollar industrial clusters" of electronic information, automobiles, equipment manufacturing and steel.
据《2019年武汉市政府工作报告》披露，光电子信息、汽车及零部件、生物医药及医疗器械三大支柱产业，2018年主营业务收入已突破5000 亿元。
According to the 2019 Wuhan Report on the Work of the Government, photoelectronic information, automobiles and parts, biomedicine and medical devices are the mainstay industries, with 2018 revenue exceeding 500 billion yuan.
此外，金融、商贸、物流、建筑等行业增加值也均超过千亿元。
In addition, the added value of the financial, trade, logistics and construction industries exceeded 100 billion yuan.
去年12月30日，武汉市委召开经济工作会议时提出，要尽快打造1—2个5000亿级新兴支柱产业，以跨入“两万亿GDP俱乐部”——目前北上广深和重庆已达这一标准。
On December 30 last year, when the Wuhan Municipal Committee convened an economic-work conference, it called for the creation of a 500 billion-billion-grade emerging pillar industry as soon as possible in order to enter the "two trillion-dollar GDP club" - a standard that has now been reached in both Shenzhen and Chongqing.
但意料之外的新冠肺炎疫情，给正准备经济冲刺的武汉踩下一脚刹车。
But the unexpected outbreak of pneumonia in the new crown gave Wuhan, preparing for its economic spurt, a brake.
由于复工进程尤其延后，这一目标的实现难度已然增加。
This objective has been made more difficult by the particularly delayed resumption process.
“汽车之城”在上述三大支柱产业中，汽车产业自2010年至今一直是武汉第一大产业。
"Automobile City" in the three pillars of the industry, the automotive industry has been Wuhan since 2010 has been the largest industry.
早在上世纪六十年代末，东风汽车的前身第二汽车制造厂在湖北十堰成立，后总部迁至武汉经济技术开发区。
Back in the late 1960s, Dongfeng's predecessor, the Second Automobile Factory, was founded in Shiyan, Hubei Province, and moved to Wuhan Economic and Technological Development Zone.
伴随着行业龙头“二汽”的发展，产业链相关企业逐渐在武汉大规模聚集。
Accompanied by the industry leader "second steam" development, the industrial chain-related enterprises gradually large-scale aggregation in Wuhan.
据湖北省统计局数据显示，2018年武汉汽车制造业企业将近1500家。
By 2018, Wuhan auto manufacturing enterprises numbered nearly 1,500, according to the Hubei Bureau of Statistics.
在湖北省内20家整车厂商之中，武汉一地就达12家。
Wuhan is home to 12 of the 20 full-scale manufacturers in Hubei province.
作为全国六大乘用车基地之一，当地汇集了中、法、美、日四大车系，2018年汽车产量超170万辆，汽车及零部件产业产值达4000亿元。
As one of the six major passenger vehicle bases in the country, China, France, the United States and Japan together produce more than 1.7 million automobiles in 2018, and the output value of the automobile and spare parts industry reached 400 billion yuan.
在众多零部件制造企业中，不仅有博世、法雷奥、伟世通等跨国巨头的身影，也有成百上千家大大小小的本土中小企业。
In many parts manufacturing enterprises, there are not only Bosch, Farrell, Weston and other multinational giants, but also hundreds of small and large local small and medium-sized enterprises.
目前，武汉经济技术开发区已是全球汽车工厂最密集的区域之一，东风大道向南的十几公里半径内，俨然形成一条世界汽车工业的“走廊”。
At present, Wuhan Economic and Technological Development Zone is one of the most densely populated areas in the world, and Dongfeng Boulevard has become a corridor for the world automobile industry within a radius of ten kilometers to the south.
也正是因此，全球汽车前十大供应商约40%的生产工厂和研发中心处于包括武汉在内的重灾区，而饱受疫情冲击。
As a result, about 40 per cent of the world's top 10 suppliers' production plants and R & D centres are in hard-hit areas, including Wuhan.
在“汽车之城”之外，光电子产业是武汉的另一张烫金名片。
Outside the "City of the Automobile," the optoelectronics industry is another hot business card in Wuhan.
别称“中国光谷”的东湖高新区在1991年成为首批国家高新区，2001年，东湖高新区又获批为国家光电子产业基地。
The East Lake High-tech Zone, also known as the Guanggu Prefecture of China, became the first national high-tech zone in 1991, and in 2001, the East Lake High-tech Zone was also approved as the national optoelectronics industry base.
几乎与此同时，湖北确立以武汉为中心发展集成电路的方向，由此开始了至今已有20年的光谷布局。
Almost at the same time, Hubei established Wuhan as the center of the development of integrated circuits, thus began to have 20 years of optical valley layout.
武汉的光电子信息产业主要包括半导体、显示屏、光通信、激光和消费电子终端等。
Wuhan optoelectronic information industry mainly includes semiconductor, display screen, optical communication, laser and consumer electronic terminal, etc.
企查查信息显示，当地计算机、通信等电子设备制造业企业超过2000家。
Enterprises check information, local computers, telecommunications and other electronic equipment manufacturing enterprises more than 2,000.
目前，武汉的光纤光缆生产规模全球第一，占国内、国际市场的比例分别为三分之二和四分之一；光电器件、光传输设备在国内市场占有率分别达到60%和10%。
At present, Wuhan is the world's largest producer of fibre optic cables, accounting for two thirds of the domestic market and one quarter of the international market. Optoelectronic devices and optical transmission equipment account for 60 per cent and 10 per cent of the domestic market respectively.
而由于对下游行业的极端重要性，据《财经》报道，备受关注的武汉芯片巨头长江存储等在疫情期间均未中断生产，尽可能降低对行业的影响。
Because of its critical importance to the downstream sector, Wuhan chip giant Changjiang Storage, among others, kept production at bay during the outbreak, minimizing its impact on the industry, Caijing reported.
在生物医药方面，据统计武汉共有1500多家生物医药及医疗器械企业，其中既有辉瑞和拜耳等跨国大厂分厂，也有九州通、人福医药和武汉健民等行业企业，还有明德生物、安翰科技等一批新兴企业。
In the field of biomedicine, Wuhan has more than 1,500 biomedical and medical-device enterprises, including major multinational factories such as Pfizer and Bayer, as well as enterprises in such industries as Kyushu Tong, Humanfu Medicine and Wuhan Jianmin, as well as a number of start-up enterprises such as Mingde Biology and Anhan Technology.
按照此前当地政府的规划，在汽车和装备制造等现有产业增长有限的情况下，包括生命健康、信息技术、智能制造和新材料等在内的新领域，被寄予了冲击5000亿产值规模的新希望。
Under previous local government plans, given the limited growth of existing industries, such as car and equipment manufacturing, new areas, including life and health, information technology, smart manufacturing and new materials, have been given new hope of striking a value of 500 billion dollars.
作为中部地区的重要工业基地，市场机构分析认为，如果武汉的生产和物流停止，湖北之外的制造企业将很可能面临上游断供、下游停产、复工困难的问题。
As an important industrial base in the central region, market analysis suggests that if Wuhan production and logistics stop, manufacturers outside Hubei will likely face problems of upstream interruption, downstream shutdown and difficulty in resuming work.
此次疫情的冲击波，已经远远超出武汉一城的范围。
The shockwave of this epidemic, has been far beyond the scope of Wuhan.
上市公司身处火线疫情之下受到直接影响的，具有代表性的就是武汉的上市公司。
Listed companies in the fire epidemic under the direct impact of the representative is Wuhan listed companies.
截至目前，武汉A股上市公司数量为60家，其中人福医药（600079.SH）作为湖北首家上市的民营高新企业，在1997年5月便登陆上交所。
Up to now, Wuhan A-share listed companies number 60, of which Humanfu Medicine (600079.SH), the first private high-tech enterprise listed in Hubei, was listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange in May 1997.
此外，当地还有20家企业赴境外上市。
In addition, 20 local companies are listed abroad.
就湖北全省而言，其境内上市公司达到109家，在中部各省份中居首。
As far as Hubei province is concerned, 109 listed companies are listed in China, the highest among the central provinces.
武汉上市公司主要分布在各支柱产业中。
Wuhan listed companies are mainly distributed among the pillar industries.
在众多上市公司背后，是庞大的员工数量，有媒体统计这60家企业共雇佣员工数接近43万人。
Behind the many listed companies is a huge number of employees, with media statistics showing that the 60 companies employ close to 430,000 people.
其中，东风集团股份员工数近14万人，葛洲坝员工数超过4万人，而此次取代当地红十字会梳理医药物流的九州通，员工数也达到2.6万人。
Dongfeng Group has nearly 140,000 employees and Gezhouba has more than 40,000 employees, while Kyushu, which replaces the local Red Cross, has 26,000 employees.
鉴于当前严峻的疫情形势，这些员工的复工日期仍难以确定。
Given the current critical situation, it remains difficult to determine the date on which these employees will resume work.
在武汉封城之初，疫情迅速爆发之际，当地上市公司的股价大多经历了一次重击。
At the beginning of Wuhan, when the epidemic broke out quickly, most of the shares of local listed companies were hit hard.
不过随着形势逐渐稳定，不少股票已经开始收复失地，其中不乏热门概念股近期迎来新的上涨。
But as things have stabilised, stocks have begun to recover, with some of the hottest concepts coming on stream in the recent past.
据“商业人物”统计，截至3月4日收盘，上述60家A股上市公司中有35家已发布2019年度业绩预报（未审计），其中预亏的有4家，归属上市公司股东净利润同比下降的达16家（见下图）。
By the end of March 4, 35 of the 60 listed A-shares had issued 2019 forecasts (unaudited), with 4 forecast losses and 16 year-on-year declines in net profits attributable to listed companies, according to the business figures (see chart below).
而此次疫情无疑将继续波及今年的业绩，湖北证监局相关负责人近日就表示，辖区上市公司预计2020年收入、利润同比下降超10%的企业比较多，尤其是消费以及服务类上市公司，业绩将更为承压。
The epidemic will no doubt continue to spill over into this year's results, with officials of Hubei Securities Regulatory Agency saying recently that companies listed in the jurisdiction are expecting more than 10% year-on-year declines in revenues and profits in 2020, especially those listed in the consumer and service sectors.
在疫情导致的一派压抑氛围之中，这个群体仍不乏新鲜血液加入。
Amid the pent-up atmosphere created by the outbreak, the group still has fresh blood to add.
2月24日，“高端零食第一股”良品铺子登陆上交所。
Feb. 24, the "high-end snacks first stock" good goods shop landing on the Shanghai Stock Exchange.
上市之后，这只总部位于武汉的新股连拉九个涨停，3月5日收盘时总市值达到147.3亿元。
The Wuhan-based company closed March 5 with a total market value of 14.73 billion yuan after nine trading sessions.
而与此同时，对大多数企业而言，则只能继续观望和等待，四方筹措以缓解迫在眉睫的经营压力。
At the same time, for most businesses, the wait-and-see process continued, with the Quartet raising funds to ease pressing operational pressures.
正月初十，这原本是在宜昌举行湖北重大项目开工仪式的日期。
The tenth day of the first month, which was originally held in Yichang Hubei major project start date.
地处经济要冲的江城武汉，彼时也还在憧憬新的目标。
Located in Wuhan, an economically important city, Wuhan was also looking forward to new goals.
然而一个月过去，新的时间表仍然没能确定。
A month later, however, the new timetable remains uncertain.
疫情之下，武汉展露给外界罕有的一面。
Under the epidemic situation, Wuhan revealed to the outside world rare side.
这座久经风霜的经济重镇何时能恢复生机，也还是未知数。
It remains to be seen when the weather-beaten economic powerhouse will revive.
*头图购买于视觉中国推荐阅读严正声明：“商业人物”所有原创文章，转载均须获授权。
* Headline purchase in Visual China Recommended Reading Solemn Statement: All original articles and reprints of "business people" must be authorized.
一切形式非法转载，包括但不限于盗转、未获“商业人物”授权通过第三方转载行为，均属侵权行为，“商业人物”将公布“黑名单”并追究法律责任。
All forms of illegal reproduction, including, but not limited to, theft and unauthorized reprinting by a third party without the authorization of a "business person," who will publish the "blacklist" and will be held liable.
“商业人物”只愿与尊重知识产权的机构合作。
"Business people" are willing to cooperate only with institutions that respect intellectual property rights.
投稿、约访、合作，联系邮箱：bizleaders@qq.com添加微信biz-leader，获转载授权或邀您加入商友群微信名：商业人物微信ID：biz-leaders1.长按右侧二维码即可关注。
Subscriptions, interviews, collaborations, contact mailboxes: bizleaders @ qq.com, get permission to reprint, or invite you to join the microphone group of business people: micro-ID: biz-leaders1. Click on the two-dimensional code on the right.
2.期待您置顶与星标。
2. Expect you to place your top and star.
欢迎分享与评论，欢迎通过留言或私信方式给我们提供选题线索。
Welcome to share and comment, welcome to leave a message or private letter to us to provide clues to the topic.
3.点击“阅读原文”，看商业人物官网，获取更多精彩内容。
3. Click on "Read the original text" to see the official website of business people, to get more wonderful content.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉B面：封城下的经济重镇。
Wuhan B surface: the economic city under the seal.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "艺术文化";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; arts, culture;;;
var nickname = "商业人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
var msg_title = "武汉B面：封城下的经济重镇";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Wuhan B: Economic & quot; & quot; & quot; below.
var msg_desc = "华中重镇，经济承压。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; central China, under pressure.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '这两位富豪，败给了特朗普',。
:: These two rich men lost to Trump and AT & apos;.
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '跨越太平洋的轮值老人',。
AT RATE & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '此时此刻，他们在日本，他们在韩国',。
At the moment, they are in Japan, and they at South Korea & apos; s service.
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="商业人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
