武汉医疗系统应急：七家定点医院仓促改造，临时医院将开建。
Wuhan medical system emergency: seven designated hospitals hastily renovated, temporary hospitals will be built.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 活粒。
The following article comes from living grains.
Author 活粒。
Author live granules.
活粒。
Live granules.
联动三医，桥接资本，直达健康。
Connect three medicine, bridge capital, directly to health.
七家二级医院被征用，成为收治新型冠状病毒患者的定点医院，但医护人员防护设备紧缺，隔离病房仍未完工。
Seven Level II hospitals have been requisitioned to serve as designated hospitals for treating patients with the new coronavirus. However, medical staff are short of protective equipment and the isolation ward is still not completed.
初露端倪的临时医院，最快也要六天才能建成文 |《财经》信娜 陈晶 房宫一柳实习记者 朱贺编辑 | 王小“到底什么时候能够确诊，什么时候能够住院？”站在武汉多家医院的发热门诊内，焦虑的等候人群想知道答案。
"When and when will you be hospitalized?" Wang Xiao, an intern at Caijing Chen Palace, China's newest temporary hospital, has been waiting for answers from anxious patients at a fever clinic in Wuhan's many hospitals.
2020年1月23日17点，武汉市七医院发热门诊内，李帆与64岁的父亲在等待确诊。
At 17: 00 on January 23, 2020, Li Fan and his 64-year-old father are waiting to be diagnosed at a fever clinic at Wuhan Seven Hospital.
此时，距离他们到医院，已经过去了21个小时，周围和他们一样等待多时者并不在少数。
By this time, 21 hours had passed since they arrived at the hospital, and there were not a few who had waited as long as they had.
按武汉市政府安排，从1月23日起，所有发热在37.3度以上的病人全部到七家定点医院就诊，有关人士在现场看到的情况是，这些医院一直人满为患。
According to the arrangements made by the Wuhan city government, from 23 January all patients with fever of over 37.3 degrees went to seven designated hospitals, and what the persons concerned saw on the spot was that the hospitals had been overcrowded.
李帆和父亲候诊的武汉市七医院，是7家收治发热病人的定点医院之一。
Li Fan and his father waiting for the seven Wuhan City Hospital, is one of the seven fever patients admitted to one of the designated hospitals.
其余6家为：武汉市汉口医院、市红十字会医院、市四医院西院区、市九医院、市武昌医院、市五医院，7家均为二级医院。
The remaining six are Hankou Hospital, City Red Cross Hospital, Western Hospital of City 4 Hospital, City Jiu Hospital, City Wuchang Hospital and City Five Hospital, all of which are Level II hospitals.
1月22日，湖北省在通报新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情防控的会议上，武汉市副市长陈邂馨表示，计划安排上述7家医院腾出3400张床位，专门收治发热患者。
On January 22, 2007, at a meeting in Hubei province to report on the prevention and control of the new coronavirus-infected pneumonia, Vice Mayor Chen Xinxin said he planned to set aside 3,400 beds at the seven hospitals to treat fever sufferers.
现实是，陆续腾出来的床位不够用。
The reality is that there is not enough space available.
在过去24小时，因没有足够可用的床位，武汉市先后有三家医院明确拒绝了李帆父亲的住院申请，他们才转而又来到市七医院。
In the past 24 hours, three hospitals in Wuhan have turned down Li's father's application for hospitalization because there were not enough beds available.
1月23日凌晨两点多，李帆父亲终于在七医院的门诊观察室接受治疗。
January 23 more than 2 a.m., Li Fan father finally in the outpatient observation room of seven hospitals to receive treatment.
《财经》记者了解到，上述定点医院大多在1月21日下午收到通知，要求在1月23日将现有病人转移。
Caijing reporter learned that most of the above-mentioned designated hospitals received notification on the afternoon of January 21, requesting the transfer of existing patients on January 23.
之后，这些医院不再接诊其他疾病患者，成为肺炎患者的定点收治医院。
Since then, these hospitals no longer treat patients with other diseases and have become the designated hospitals for patients with pneumonia.
如何在两天内转移病人、腾空病床，事实上成为巨大挑战。
How to transfer patients and vacate hospital beds within two days has in fact become a huge challenge.
而在专业人士看来，大量发热病人集中涌入上述医院，可能会加大交叉感染的风险。
In the view of professionals, the influx of febrile patients into these hospitals may increase the risk of cross-infection.
为此，7家医院需要一边腾空病床，一边做必要的病房改造。
As a result, seven hospitals had to vacate their beds and make the necessary changes to the wards.
一位知情人士告诉《财经》记者，临床一线医生防护措施不到位，但不得不仓促上阵，病房改造短期无法充分到位，致使门诊和病房并不能保障医务人员和病人的安全。
A person familiar with the situation told Caijing that preventive measures for first-line doctors were not in place, but had to be rushed, and that the short-term renovation of wards could not be fully in place, resulting in clinics and wards not being able to guarantee the safety of medical staff and patients.
还有就是建新的临时医院集中救治，这被视为此前北京抗击非典的一条重要经验。
There is also the construction of a new temporary hospital centralized treatment, which is seen as Beijing's previous fight against SARS an important experience.
一位武汉设计院人士告诉《财经》记者，武汉将在武汉职工疗养院建临时医院，位置在武汉蔡甸知音湖区域，医院需在6天内建成。
Wuhan will build a temporary hospital in Wuhan Employee Sanatorium, located in the Wuhan Cai dian Jieyin Lake area, the hospital needs to be built in six days, a Wuhan design institute told Caijing.
此前，面对非典疫情，北京曾在7天内建设了“小汤山”医疗点，两个月内收治了全国七分之一的非典病人。
Beijing had already built a "Xiaotangshan" clinic in seven days to treat one in seven SARS patients in two months in the face of the SARS epidemic.
截至1月23日17:50分，中国共确诊新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎病例618例，疑似429例。
As of January 23, 17: 50, China has confirmed a total of 618 new cases of coronavirus infection, suspected 429 cases.
截至1月22日24时，湖北省累计报告444例，已治愈出院28例，死亡17例。
As of 2400 hours January 22, a total of 444 cases had been reported in Hubei Province, 28 cases had been cured and 17 cases had died.
设计/黎立“现在是无休止的排队”1月23日17点，武汉市七医院发热门诊内，李帆与父亲仍在等待。
Design / Li Li "is now an endless queue" January 23 17: 00, Wuhan Seven Hospital fever clinic, Li Fan and his father are still waiting.
“大家都在等待，（用试剂盒）检测之后才能确定能不能收治入院”，已经等待了超过21个小时，李帆的父亲还没有轮上，“现在是无休止的排队”。
"Everyone is waiting for a test (with a kit) to see if he can be admitted," he said. After more than 21 hours of waiting, Li Fan's father has not been on the wheel. "It's an endless queue."
1月22日晚，李帆听说武汉市第七医院开始接诊发热患者，匆匆赶往发热门诊挂号处，“当时已经没有号可取，只能顺着往前排着走”。
On the evening of January 22, Li Fan heard that Wuhan seventh hospital began to receive patients with fever, rushed to the fever clinic registration office, "there was no option but to go along the line."
《财经》记者从现场照片看到，1月22日晚10点，该医院发热门诊排队候诊人群，已蜿蜒至院外街道。
Caijing reporter saw from the scene photos, January 22 evening, 10 pm, the hospital fever clinic queued up waiting groups, has winding to the street outside the hospital.
1月22日晚10点左右武汉市七医院门口排队等待就诊的患者。
January 22 night around 10 o'clock Wuhan City Seven Hospital queued up to wait for patients.
采访对象供图24小时之内，李帆和家人走了四家医院。
Within 24 hours of the interview, Li Fan and his family walked through four hospitals.
1月22日，在武汉市第八医院复查，CT检查显示，李帆的父亲双肺感染。
January 22, Wuhan City Eighth Hospital review, CT examination showed that Li Fan's father had two lung infection.
“接诊医生说，医院床位已满，实在收不下了”，李帆的朋友张可告诉《财经》记者。
"The doctor said the hospital bed was full and could not be collected," Li Fan's friend Zhang Keke told Caijing.
这之后，他们去了汉口一家非定点医院，后又来到武昌医院。
After that, they went to a non-designated hospital in Hankou and then to Wuchang Hospital.
当晚8点到达发热门诊时，有将近200个人在排队，最终仍然未能入院，“这里也收不下，没床位”，张可说。
By the time we arrived at the fever clinic at 8 p.m., nearly 200 people were queuing up and were still not hospitalized.
1月22日晚8点左右武昌医院里排队等待的人。
People queuing up at Wuchang Hospital around 8: 00 pm on January 22nd.
采访对象供图“没有床位，发热的病人没有确诊就先回家自己隔离。
The interview subject for the picture: "No beds, febrile patients go home to their own isolation without diagnosis.
”武汉市某三甲医院一位医生告诉《财经》记者。
A doctor at a hospital in Wuhan told Caijing.
上周，李帆的父亲有些发热，到汉口医院就诊。
Last week, Li Fan's father had a fever and went to Hankou Hospital.
医生口头告知其父回家隔离休息，称如果再有发烧等症状随时来医院复查。
The doctor verbally told his father to go home and rest in isolation, saying he would come back to the hospital if he had fever again.
此前，他的父亲未曾去过华南海鲜市场。
His father had never been to the South China seafood market before.
医生没有给开药，于是只能自己买一些维生素C、板蓝根。
The doctor did not give the medicine, so had to buy some vitamin C, Banlangen.
在5天的自家隔离中，李帆的父亲一直高烧不退，病情不见好转。
In the five-day isolation of his family, Li Fan's father has been high fever, the disease did not improve.
1月23日凌晨两点多，李帆的父亲终于在市第七医院的门诊观察室接受输液治疗。
January 23 more than 2 a.m., Li Fan's father finally in the city's seventh hospital outpatient observation room received infusion treatment.
由于病情不断加重，直到1月23日下午5点，李帆的父亲仍留在观察室接受观察。
Due to his worsening condition, Li Fan's father remained in the observation room until 5 p.m. on January 23.
在观察室内外，挤满了戴着口罩的人群。
Inside and outside the observation room, a crowd of men wearing masks filled the room.
上述三甲医院医生说，大家都太紧张了，小感冒都往医院跑。
All of them were so nervous that they rushed to the hospital with a small cold, said the doctor at the hospital.
患者一旦发现住所附近的医院不能就诊，就流动去下一家医院看，而几家定点医院都在市中心，发热病人这样流动挺让人担忧的。
Once the patient found that the hospital nearby was unable to see him, he moved to the next hospital, and several of the designated hospitals were in the centre of the city.
有相似等待遭遇的还有从国外回武汉探亲的王木，1月19日下午，从国外回武汉探亲的王木持续发烧，后去武汉同济医院就诊，一进门就震惊于眼前的景象。
Wang Mu, who had returned to Wuhan on January 19 to visit his relatives in Wuhan, developed a fever on the afternoon of January 19 and went to Wuhan Tongji Hospital for medical treatment.
发热门诊问诊台边，“里三层外三层”被人群围着。
Heating out-patient clinics next to the table, "three floors" surrounded by the crowd.
她询问还要等多久？护士回复：没办法，你没看到这么多人吗，等不了就去其他医院吧。
How long will it take? The nurse replied, No way. Haven't you seen so many people? Go to another hospital if you can't.
1月20日，王木来到武汉普爱医院，依然是如同济医院相似的情景，“病人们都挤在医生诊室里围着医生”。
January 20, Wang Mu came to Wuhan Puai Hospital, is still similar to the Tongji hospital, "patients crowded into the doctor's room surrounded by doctors.
1月23日，武汉卫健委官网发布通告，此前，由辖区疾控中心将样本转运到市疾控中心，市疾控中心转运到省疾控中心进行核酸检测，每天可检测样本200多份。
January 23, Wuhan Wei health officials issued a notice, the jurisdiction of the CDC will be transferred samples to the CDC, CDC transferred to the provincial CDC for nucleic acid testing, can detect more than 200 samples per day.
预计从采样开始到结果返回，当前约需要2天左右的时间。
It is expected that it will currently take about two days from the beginning of the sampling to the return of the results.
此前，样本需送到北京国家指定的检测机构，检测结果返回约需要3—5天。
Previously, samples had to be sent to a state-designated testing facility in Beijing, and the results would take about three to five days to return.
由于发热门诊就诊人数增多，留观患者堆积，上述通告称，1月22日开始，武汉市制定部分医院及市疾控中心等具备相应防护级别的生物安全实验室，开展相关样本的病原核酸检测。
Due to the increase in the number of visits to fever clinics and the accumulation of patients for observation, the notice said that starting on January 22, Wuhan had set up biosafety laboratories with appropriate levels of protection, such as some hospitals and city disease control centers, to carry out pathogen nucleic acid testing of relevant samples.
第一批加入检测的共10家机构，预计全部运行起来每天可检测样本近2000份。
A total of 10 agencies were among the first to be tested, and it is expected that nearly 2,000 samples per day will be available for testing.
此外，武汉市计划紧急调运3万人份试剂盒发放到指定检测机构，目前已下发6000人份。
In addition, Wuhan city plans to urgently transfer 30, 000 dosing kits to designated testing institutions, so far has distributed 6,000 people.
听到这样的消息，李帆留言：“但愿吧。
Hearing the news, Li Fan said, "I hope so.
”即使检测后，还要多久自己的父亲才能住院治疗？“即刻起，医院不再接诊普通患者”“1月22日，医院需开始接诊发热病人”。
"Even after the test, how long will it take for his father to be hospitalized?" From now on, hospitals no longer treat ordinary patients, "he said.
前一天晚上六点，该医院一名医生收到这样的通知。
At six o'clock the previous evening, a doctor at the hospital had received such notification.
1月22日当日，一位值班医护人员在科室群里询问，“哪里可以领防护服”？当日晚间，该院发热门诊的一名急诊医生，只佩戴了普通的外科口罩。
"Where can I get protective clothing?" On January 22, an emergency doctor at the hospital's calorific clinic wore only ordinary surgical masks.
1月22日晚，湖北省副省长、省新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎防控指挥部副指挥长杨云彦在发布会上介绍，在城区7家大型医院附近，选择了7家二级公立医院作为发热门诊的定点医院，转移病人、腾空病房全部用于接收发热病人。
In the evening of January 22, Yang Yunyan, vice-governor of Hubei province and deputy commander of the Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command for the new coronavirus infection in the province, said at a news conference that seven level-II public hospitals had been selected as designated hospitals for fever clinics in the vicinity of seven major hospitals in urban areas.
从1月23日起，所有发热在37.3度以上的病人全部到这七家定点医院就诊。
From 23 January, all patients with fever of more than 37.3 degrees went to the seven designated hospitals.
此前两天，武昌医院院门口贴出的“温馨提示”上写着，医院被确定为武汉中心城区发热患者定点诊疗医院，铁路医保慢病患者请到对面药房取药。
Two days earlier, a "warm tip" posted outside the hospital said the hospital had been identified as a designated hospital for fever sufferers in central Wuhan.
请非发热患者前往其他医院就诊。
Non-febrile patients are invited to visit other hospitals.
另一家定点医院的措辞是“紧急公告”：医院确定为武汉市中心城区发热患者定点诊疗医院，全部用于接诊发热患者，“即刻起，我院不再接诊其他疾病患者”。
Another designated hospital wording "emergency notice": the hospital identified as Wuhan central city district fever patients designated hospital, all used to treat febrile patients, "that is, from now on, the hospital will not accept other patients."
上述定点医院内，除发热病人外的原有病人，需由另外7家三级以上医院接管。
In the above-mentioned designated hospital, in addition to febrile patients of the original patients, need to be taken over by seven more than three hospitals.
这些在武汉市内的医院是：同济医院、协和医院、武大人民医院、武大中南医院、市一医院、市中心医院、市三医院。
The hospitals in Wuhan are: Tongji Hospital, Concorde Hospital, Wu Da People's Hospital, Wu Da Zhongnan Hospital, City One Hospital, Central Hospital and City Three Hospital.
上述某三级医院相关负责人告诉《财经》记者，从1月22日晚开始，该医院已经不收治新的发热病人了，只能去定点医院。
Since the evening of January 22, the hospital has stopped treating new patients with fever and will have to go to a designated hospital, Caijing told Caijing.
武汉市另一三甲医院相关负责人透露，现有病人继续治疗。
Wuhan another three A hospital related officials revealed that the existing patients continue to be treated.
医院内部分专家对口武汉市及省内部分区域的其他医院，负责管理、诊疗和指导。
Some experts in the hospital are responsible for the management, diagnosis and guidance of Wuhan city and other hospitals in some areas of the province.
1月22日，武汉大学人民医院的公告是，请体温超过37.3℃的患者前往其他医院就诊，也就是上述定点医院。
On January 22, the notice of Wuhan University People's Hospital said that patients with body temperature exceeding 37.3 degrees Celsius were invited to other hospitals, namely the designated hospital.
上述武汉武昌医院发布的通知提及，医院需开始进行相关准备工作，“具体开始接诊发热患者时间另行通知”。
Wuhan Wuchang Hospital issued the notice mentioned above, the hospital needs to start the relevant preparatory work, "the specific start of treatment fever patients time to notice."
1月23日，上海市组建首批医疗队援助湖北，共同应对新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情。
On January 23, the first medical teams from Shanghai were set up to assist Hubei province in jointly responding to the new coronavirus pneumonia.
《财经》记者了解到，共组建了3批医疗队，一批开展救治，另外两批待命。
Caijing reporter learned that a total of three medical teams have been formed, a batch of medical treatment, the other two groups on standby.
每批次135人。
135 persons per batch.
《财经》记者从复旦大学附属华山医院了解到，目前已派出医疗队，包括呼吸科和感染科的医生。
"Caijing" from Fudan University affiliated Huashan Hospital learned that the medical team has been sent, including the respiratory department and the infection department doctors.
武汉的医院准备好了吗？1月22日，上述某定点医院一科室护士长去相关科室领物资，却“领不到”。
Wuhan hospital ready? January 22, a department head nurse to a designated hospital to receive supplies, but "do not receive."
他们所指的物资是，防护服、医用口罩等。
They refer to protective clothing, medical masks, etc.
在此前国家卫健委的通报提到，医护人员在从事与患者有密切接触的诊疗活动时，需穿戴一次性工作帽、防护眼镜、防护服等。
Earlier, the NHS circular mentioned that medical staff should wear disposable work caps, protective glasses and protective clothing when engaging in close contact with patients.
1月22日，国家卫健委的发布会上已证实，病毒可在人际间传播。
The virus can spread from person to person, as confirmed by the National Fitness Council at a press conference on January 22.
已经出现人传人和医务工作者感染。
Human-to-human transmission and medical worker infections have occurred.
这些“物资”也许是阻断病毒侵入的最后一道防火墙。
These "materials" may be the last firewall to block virus access.
一则信息显示，武汉大学人民医院相关负责人发布，急需防护物资，当前奋战一线的医护都只能限量供应。
According to one information, Wuhan University People's Hospital related to the release of urgently needed protective materials, the current battle front-line medical care can only be limited supply.
《财经》记者致电武汉大学人民医院设备处的杨姓负责人，证实了该院缺少防护设备。
Caijing called Yang, the head of the equipment department of Wuhan University's People's Hospital, and confirmed the hospital's lack of protective equipment.
1月23日，武汉市新型肺炎防控指挥部发布通告，希望社会各界捐赠武汉市抗击疫情的医用耗材、防护用品等物资。
On January 23, the Wuhan New Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command issued a circular, hoping the community donated Wuhan City to fight the epidemic medical supplies, protective supplies and other materials.
已开通24小时电话接收社会各界爱心捐赠（武汉市红十字会电话：027-82788599，027-82210181，027-82812604，027-82858499，027-82856122。
A 24-hour telephone line has been set up to receive charitable donations from various sectors of the community (Wuhan Red Cross: 027-82788599, 027-82210181, 027-82812604, 027-82858499, 027-82856122).
联系人：骆钢强 13297963117）。
Contact person: Mr. Locke 13297963117.
武汉市红十字会一名工作人员告诉《财经》记者，缺医用口罩、缺防护服，具体数量不限。
Wuhan Red Cross staff told Caijing reporter, lack of medical masks, lack of protective clothing, the number is not limited.
除了紧缺的防护物资，隔离病房的改造也在仓促进行中。
In addition to scarce protective materials, the reform of the isolation ward is also in a hurry.
1月23日下午4时，武汉市四医院西院区一名工作人员告诉《财经》记者，21日下午5点接到通知，22日上午8点钟医院停诊，预计25号可以开放接收病人。
At 4: 00 p.m. on January 23, a staff member of the western courtyard of Wuhan Fourth Hospital told Caijing that the hospital was closed at 8: 00 pm on the 21st and expected to open for patients on May 25.
22日中午后开始对院区进行改造，“今明两天都在赶工”。
After noon on the 22nd began to reform the courtyard area, "today and next two days are in rush."
上述市四院工作人员称，政府部门要求两天改造完，但目前看来难度很大，“院内的指引标识都还没贴，工程和防护服的问题目前尚未解决，现在正在加固隔断。
Officials at the Fourth Municipal Government said the two-day renovation was required, but it appeared difficult at the moment. "The signs have not yet been posted and engineering and protective clothing problems remain unresolved and are being reinforced.
“如果病人大量涌进，我们却没有防护力度”。
"If there is a huge influx of patients, we have no protection."
1月23日，《财经》记者分别致电武汉市七医院及四医院西院区，其均为此次公布的新型病毒肺炎患者的定点医院，都表示，“正在改建病房，加固隔断”。
On January 23, Caijing called Wuhan Seven Hospital and the Western Hospital of the Fourth Hospital respectively, both of which are designated hospitals for patients with new type of viral pneumonia.
除了改造基础设施，上述市四院工作人员称，原来的住院病人需要清空，正在搬家，“今天还剩几十个病人没有转走”。
In addition to infrastructure improvements, hospital staff said the original residents need to be emptied, moving, "today there are dozens of patients have not been transferred.
整个病区将全部腾空， “按病情的轻、中、重来收治发热病人，一个病房有三四十张床”。
The entire area will be emptied, "according to the disease light, medium, heavy treatment fever patients, a ward of 30 or 40 beds."
《财经》记者向一位知情人士了解到，市五医院正在新开辟出600张病床，一个病区30张床位，承接疑似或确诊为新型病毒肺炎患者。
Caijing told a person familiar with the matter that the Fifth Municipal Hospital is opening a new 600 beds, a sick area of 30 beds, to undertake suspected or confirmed patients with new virus pneumonia.
上述医院的医生透露，要求1月23日晚18点前腾空现有病人。
Doctors at the hospital said they were required to vacate existing patients by 18 p.m. on January 23.
这距离她收到通知的间隔，仅两天。
It was only two days before she was notified.
（《财经》记者韩舒淋、陈亮、黄姝静对本文亦有贡献；文中李帆、张可、王木为化名）本文由树木计划作者【财经杂志】创作，独家发布在今日头条，未经授权，不得转载 “武汉肺炎”疫情系列报道▷ 点击图片查看责编| 黄端duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
(Written by Nifang Li, Zhang Ke and Wang Mu as pseudonyms), this article was written by Nifang Li, Zhang Ke, and Wang Mu, the authors of this report. It was published by Caijing magazine.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉医疗系统应急：七家定点医院仓促改造，临时医院将开建。
Wuhan medical system emergency: seven designated hospitals hastily renovated, temporary hospitals will be built.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉医疗系统应急：七家定点医院仓促改造，临时医院将开建";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Wuhan Medical System Emergency: Seven designated hospitals were hastily overhauled, and temporary hospitals will be built or quot;;;
var msg_desc = "七家二级医院被征用，成为收治新型冠状病毒患者的定点医院，但医护人员防护设备紧缺，隔离病房仍未完工。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Seven level II hospitals were requisitioned to serve as referral hospitals for patients with new coronavirus, but medical personnel are short of protective equipment and the isolation ward remains incomplete.
初露端倪的临时医院，最快也要六天才能建成";。
; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; six days at the earliest.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
