武汉“封城”首日实录：医院少床位、防护缺资源、病患难隔离。
Wuhan "closure" on the first day of the record: hospitals with fewer beds, lack of resources for protection, disease and isolation.
房宫一柳  陈晶。
Atrium willow Chen Jing.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
不管是医生、护士、病患、疑似病患，还是星夜出城的情侣、着急的母亲、加班的创业者，没有人提到现在是春节，今天是除夕文 |《财经》记者房宫一柳陈晶编辑 | 宋玮第一个8小时：“封城”来得突然一些武汉人起床晚，他们可能比全国网民更晚知道武汉“封城”的消息。
No one ever mentioned that it was Spring Festival. Today is the first eight hours for Chenjing, a reporter's office of Caijing. Mr. Song Wei: Suddenly some Wuhan people wake up late, and they may know about Wuhan's "city closure" later than any other Chinese netizen.
1月23日上午8点51分左右，他们收到中国移动的手机短信：武汉市新兴冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控指挥部表示，自2020年1月23日10时起，全市城市公交、地铁、轮渡、长途客运站暂停运营。
At around 8: 51 a.m. on January 23, they received a text message from China Mobile: "Since 10: 00 a.m. on January 23, 2020, the city's urban public transport, subway, ferry and long-distance passenger stations have been suspended," said the command for the prevention and control of pneumonia infected with the new coronavirus in Wuhan.
机场、火车站离汉通道暂时关闭。
The airport and railway stations are temporarily closed.
一些武汉人睡得晚，他们在1月23日凌晨2点看到了武汉即将“封城”的消息，于是准备连夜出城。
Some Wuhan people go to bed late, they saw the January 23 at 2: 00 a.m. Wuhan is about to "seal the city", so ready to go out of the city overnight.
武汉市民王深凌晨4点醒来看见新闻，迅速摇醒了身边的女友，两个人预定了1张1月23日上午8点55分去福建泉州的车票。
The King of Wuhan woke up at 4 a.m. and saw the news. He quickly woke up his girlfriend. The two men booked a ticket to Quanzhou, Fujian Province, at 8: 55 a.m. on January 23.
王深在前一晚刚刚取消了团年饭，提前给全公司放了假。
Wang Sheng cancelled the Lunar New Year dinner the night before and gave the whole company leave ahead of time.
在突然的“封城”通知前，他误打误撞给员工留出了回家时间，现在他准备把女友送出武汉。
Before the sudden "closure" notice, he mistakenly gave staff time to go home, now he is ready to send his girlfriend out of Wuhan.
王深告诉《财经》记者，跨省救治的病例对他影响很大：此前媒体报道一位大连确诊病例，就是因为在武汉无法救治，最终选择飞去大连，然后确诊了。
Wang told Caijing that the cross-provincial treatment of the case had a great impact on him: previously, the media reported that a confirmed case in Dalian was due to the inability to cure, finally chose to fly to Dalian, and then confirmed.
于是，王深和女友选择一个人出城、一个人留下，虽然两人没有肺炎的任何症状，但决定分散风险，去其他城市以便及时就医，或许那是更可行的出路。
So Wang and his girlfriend chose to leave town alone. Although they did not have any symptoms of pneumonia, they decided to spread the risk and seek medical treatment in other cities in time.
他们是武汉众多紧急出城人群的缩影。
They are Wuhan's many emergency out of the city's population in miniature.
1月23日清晨5点30分，一些准备出城的人到达便利店时，那里已经挤满了人。
At 5: 30 a.m. on January 23rd, when some people ready to leave town arrived at the convenience store, it was already crowded with people.
店员告诉他们，这是第三拨来囤物资的市民了。
The clerk told them that this was the third citizen to hoard the goods.
近6点，在地铁站门口，已经有近十人在排队等候。
By six o'clock, at the gate of the subway station, nearly ten people were already waiting in line.
7点15时，王深将女友送到了武汉车站。
At 7: 15, Wang sent his girlfriend to Wuhan station.
那里人山人海，他目测绝大部分人戴上了口罩。
There was a sea of people, and he saw most of them put on masks.
武汉开往泉州的列车正常发车。
The train from Wuhan to Quanzhou starts normally.
但是他女友上车前，没有接受任何体温检查。
But his girlfriend didn't have any temperature check before she got on the bus.
一位从洛杉矶回武汉探亲的女士告诉《财经》记者，看到“封城”消息后，他们全家都慌了。
A woman returning to Wuhan from Los Angeles to visit her family told Caijing that the whole family panicked when she saw the news of the "city closure."
她女儿刚好是当天下午的飞机，从武汉中转厦门前往洛杉矶。
Her daughter happened to be on a plane that afternoon, transiting Xiamen from Wuhan to Los Angeles.
她想去机场碰碰运气，到达时看到大批警察坐着大巴赶到机场，飞机不能再飞。
She wanted to try her luck at the airport and arrived to see a large number of police arriving on buses that could no longer fly.
而女儿大学开学在即，她只能选择先去武汉周边的麻城，再从麻城搭高铁去其他地方乘飞机。
With her daughter's university due to start, she had to travel to the mahjong on the outskirts of Wuhan, then take a high-speed train from Massachusetts to other places by air.
有人建议她自己开车上高速，然而到1月23日下午3点，武汉周边的高速也开始封路。
She was advised to drive on the highway herself, but by 3 p.m. on January 23, highways around Wuhan had also begun to be closed.
送完女友上车后，王深回城，9点左右他到了武汉中百超市囤货。
After sending his girlfriend on the bus, Wang Sheng returned to the city, around 9 o'clock he went to Wuhan Zhong100 supermarket hoarding goods.
很多人几乎不看货不选货，直接把蔬菜水果放入篮中。
Many people almost do not see the goods do not select goods, directly into the basket of vegetables and fruits.
超市里有3个称重点、6个收银点，每队排了20几人。
In the supermarket, there are three key points, six checkout points, each queue with more than 20 people.
货架上，前一夜补货的84消毒液，已经销售一空。
On the shelf, 84 disinfectants that had been restocked the night before had been sold out.
据悉，1月23日武汉多数超市物价处于正常状态，即武汉往年的过年价格，比平常物价高出30%-50%。
Prices at most supermarkets in Wuhan on January 23 are in a normal state, with prices in Wuhan being 30 percent to 50 percent higher than normal in previous years.
武汉市民罗新买了两捆菜苔，2斤半青豆，4节藕，花费113元。
Wuhan City Min Luo new bought two bundles of moss, 2 jacks of green beans, 4 lotus root, spent 113 yuan.
此时，家在武汉市东南部武昌的周学刚刚起床。
At this time, the home in Wuhan south-eastern Wuchang Zhou Xuehe just got up.
他从1月22日起出现发低烧、全身无力、厌食等病毒性肺炎症状，先后去了6家医院，直到1月23日武汉“封城”消息来临，还未得到就诊机会。
He developed symptoms such as low fever, general weakness, anorexia and other viral pneumonia on January 22, and went to six hospitals until the news of the Wuhan "closed city" on January 23, he has not yet had the opportunity to see a doctor.
他所去的医院，要么不接诊，要么排大队，预约挂号被取消，多家医院需要通宵排队。
The hospital he went to was either unattended or in a platoon, his appointment was cancelled and several hospitals had to wait in line overnight.
只有两家医院可以排上门诊，一是中部战区总医院，但只排查、不治疗；一是省妇女保健医院，但只接诊孕妇。
Only two hospitals are available on an outpatient basis, the Central Theatre General Hospital, which is open only for screening and non-treatment, and the Provincial Women's Health Hospital, which only caters to pregnant women.
疲惫的周学只能带着症状回家。
Weary Zhouxue can only bring symptoms home.
他发现姥姥也开始发低烧，但姥姥又不能像年轻人一样转折6家医院求医，只能在家自我隔离，等待医院就诊的最新情况。
He discovered that Grandma was starting to have a low fever, but Grandma could not turn to six hospitals like a young person and had to isolate herself at home and wait for the latest situation.
接到“封城”消息后，周学起床做了两件事，去超市抢食品和去加油站。
After receiving the news, Zhou got up and did two things. He went to the supermarket to grab food and go to the gas station.
在他看来，“封城”后这些资源不比医疗资源充足，超市里蔬菜已被抢购一空，只能等第二天补货；而等待加油的汽车排了一条街的队。
In his view, these resources were no more than medical resources after the "closure," the supermarket had been sold out of vegetables, had to wait for the next day to restock, and cars waiting to refuel lined up in line.
同样来加油站的罗新，等了30分钟没加上油，看看还有半箱油，就驾车离开了。
Luo Xin, who also came to the gas station, waited 30 minutes without adding oil, looked at half a carton of oil, and drove away.
加油站排了一条街的队对比《财经》采访的多位疑似病患，拥有汽车的周学或许还算是幸运的。
A line of gas stations lined up to compare Caijing's interview with a number of suspected patients, the owner of the car Zhou may be lucky.
公交、地铁、交通方式接连停运后，无数无车的病患者，去医院的交通选择并不多。
Public transportation, subway, transportation mode after another, countless patients without cars, to the hospital transport options are not many.
因为疫情，武汉市内打车运力已经锐减。
Due to the epidemic, taxi capacity in Wuhan has been drastically reduced.
根据一家打车平台提供给《财经》记者的数据，从1月21日起，武汉订单量仅至日常一半左右，1月23日“封城”后订单数更少。
Since January 21, Wuhan has ordered only about half of its daily order volume, with even fewer orders after the city was closed on January 23, according to Caijing reporter from a taxi platform.
这意味着，多数没有汽车的病患，如果打不到车，只能徒步去最近的医院。
This means that most patients who do not have a car go to the nearest hospital on foot if they cannot get a car.
有人想叫救护车，但据医院表示，每个医院不多的救护车已经全力出勤，基本叫不上。
Some people want to call ambulances, but hospitals say that not many ambulances in every hospital are fully in attendance and can hardly be called.
第二个8小时：医院一床难求然而即使到了医院，也不一定能看上病。
Second 8 hours: a hospital bed is hard to come by but even when you get to the hospital, you may not get sick.
《财经》记者致电武汉所有定点医院，包括第一批3家医院：市汉口医院、市红十字会医院、市七医院，和第二批的4家医院：市四医院西区、市九医院、市武昌医院、市五医院，只有红十字会医院尚有床位，其他定点医院各自几百个床位已满，他们正在通过整理过道位置，转移普通病人等方式准备新的床位。
"Caijing" called all the designated Wuhan hospitals, including the first three hospitals: City Hankou Hospital, City Red Cross Hospital, City Seven Hospital, and the second batch of four hospitals: City 4 Hospital West, City 9 Hospital, City Wuchang Hospital, City Five Hospital.
也就是说，这些医院至少2000多个床位已经住满了发热病人。
In other words, at least 2,000 beds in these hospitals are already full of febrile patients.
武汉协和、同济这两家知名的综合性医院，发热住院床位已满，只能接受门诊。
Wuhan Concorde, Tongji these two well-known general hospitals, fever hospital beds have been full, can only accept outpatient.
对于周学这样的疑似病患，他只能不停给医院致电询问最新床位情况。
For a suspect like Zhou, he had to call the hospital to find out the latest status of his bed.
就算确诊或是高度疑似，目前也只能先服药，回家自我隔离3—5天。
Even if the diagnosis is confirmed or highly suspected, at present can only take medicine, home self-isolation for 3-5 days.
他也在等待医生上门诊治的消息。
He was also waiting to hear from the doctor.
欧洲防疫规定，发生疫情时医生需要上门诊治。
European epidemic prevention rules, when the outbreak of a doctor need home treatment.
但截至发稿，《财经》尚未获悉武汉有医院收到相关部署，也未见社区提供相关帮助。
But as of the writing, "Caijing" has not yet learned that Wuhan hospitals have received the relevant deployment, and did not see the community to provide relevant assistance.
面对疫情蔓延，武汉市医疗系统近日已绷紧至极。
Faced with the spread of the epidemic Wuhan medical system has been stretched to the limit.
据《财经》记者了解，定点医院市七医院只能接受门诊，床位仍在腾挪中。
According to "Caijing" reporter understands, the city seven hospital can only accept the outpatient service, the bed is still moving.
1月22日晚收治超过600人，不管是轻症还是重症只能口服药物或者输液。
On the evening of January 22, more than 600 people were admitted for treatment, either orally or by infusion.
该医院将中南医院调配的医护人员支持，争取在几天之内完成过道病床改建，计划开出305张床位。
The hospital, supported by medical staff deployed from the South-Central Hospital, aims to complete the conversion of the corridor within a few days, with a planned 305 beds.
同时该院也向上报备了资源紧缺需求。
At the same time, the hospital has also reported a resource shortage needs.
从武汉去湖北十堰太和医院就诊的李岚，被告知回家等待结果，目前该院仅剩2-3张床位，仅能提供给重症患者。
Li Lan, who went from Wuhan to Taihe Hospital in Shiyan, Hubei Province, was told to go home and wait for the results.
李岚在武汉“封城”之前赶回了老家，此前她在武汉同济医院胃肠外科实习，直到1月19日她离开同济医院之前，胃肠外科医护人员罕有身着防护服者，他们当时看到的是官方通报是，未发现明确人传人证据。
Li Lan returned to her hometown before Wuhan "closed the city" after working as a gastrointestinal surgeon at Wuhan Tongji Hospital until January 19, when she left Tongji Hospital.
武汉人民医院的眼科室也在近日被征用为感染病房，住的是疑似或确诊被感染的医生。
The eye department of Wuhan People's Hospital was also recently requisitioned as an infection ward, housing doctors suspected or confirmed to be infected.
他们于1月23日中午被转移去了定点医院。
They were transferred to the designated hospital at noon on 23 January.
《财经》记者通过致电了解，武汉市第三、第七医院均于近两日接到上级通知成为定点医院，正在转移普通病人，整理床位。
"Caijing" reporters learned by telephone, Wuhan City, the third and seventh hospitals have been notified that the last two days as a designated hospital, the transfer of ordinary patients, the bed.
几日间，武汉确诊和疑似病例暴增至数百，城市防护等级升格，尤其是了解到许多病例并没有发热等明显特征后，不少武汉市民的心态仿佛经历了过山车，从应对流感的普通心态，到人人自危。
In a few days, Wuhan confirmed and suspected cases of violence increased to hundreds, urban protection level upgrade, especially after understanding that many cases do not have fever and other obvious characteristics, many Wuhan people's mentality as if experienced a roller coaster, from the common state of mind to deal with flu, to everyone's self-harm.
再加上武汉至大连就诊案例、“封城”的刺激，有类似症状的市民大多想去医院尽快得到诊治，武汉有限的医疗资源因此供不应求。
Wuhan to Dalian clinic cases, "closure" of the stimulation, the majority of citizens with similar symptoms want to go to the hospital as soon as possible, Wuhan limited medical resources are in short supply.
同样紧缺的还有医疗物资。
Also in short supply are medical supplies.
第三医院被通知成为定点医院后，并没有储备足够多的防护物资，在下午2点记者电话联系该医院时，医生只有少量口罩、医用帽，没有防护服以及护目镜。
Hospital No. 3, which was notified as a designated hospital, did not have sufficient stocks of protective equipment, and when the hospital was contacted by telephone at 2 p.m., the doctor had only a small number of masks, a medical cap, no protective clothing and goggles.
医院正在通过社会途径寻求物资支持。
Hospitals are seeking material support through social channels.
但第三医院并没有储备足够多的防护物资，1月23日下午2点，《财经》记者电话联系该医院时，医生只有少量口罩、医用帽，没有防护服以及护目镜，医院正在通过社会途径寻求物资支持。
But the third hospital did not have enough protective equipment. When Caijing called the hospital at 2: 00 p.m. on January 23, the doctor had only a small number of masks, a medical cap, no protective clothing and goggles.
武汉科技大学附属医院的员工告诉《财经》记者，目前医生只有外科口罩可以使用，没有隔离衣，只有发热门诊和隔离区有N95口罩，正在等待物资支持。
Wuhan University of Science and Technology affiliated hospital staff told Caijing that doctors are only allowed to use surgical masks, no protective clothing, only fever clinics and the area of separation N95 masks, waiting for material support.
湖北孝感市汉川某医院的医护人员则表示，护士们此前拿到手的部分N95口罩过期近一年，这种口罩只有在保质期内才能有效灭菌。
Medical staff at a hospital in Hanchuan, Hubei province, said some of the N95 masks nurses had received were nearly a year overdue and could only be sterilized within their shelf life.
一些护士发现后气愤地在工作群里反映，领导的反馈是：不要公开发，有事私聊。
Some nurses see this and angrily report it to the work group. The feedback from the leadership is: Don't post it openly. Talk to someone privately.
据《财经》记者了解，圆通已开通快递中转，在消毒后可将物资送入武汉。
According to "Caijing" reporter, Yuantong has opened express transit, after disinfection can be sent to Wuhan.
社会各界正在响应医院请求，捐助物资进汉。
All sectors of society are responding to hospital requests, donations into Han.
武汉已捐赠企业两点十分告诉《财经》记者，可走基金会或个人捐赠。
Wuhan has donated two points to Caijing reporter, can go to the foundation or individual donation.
一位行业人士向记者透露，一般的捐赠申请都是通过基金会达成，尤其是医药耗材等需要经过专业质量检测物资，现在各家定点医院和综合类医院都在对外寻求物资帮助，实属罕见。
One industry source told reporters that general applications for donations are made through the foundation, especially for medical supplies that require professional quality testing, and that it is rare for designated hospitals and general hospitals to seek material assistance from outside.
他质疑，是否存在中间环节的沟通不畅或不作为。
He questioned whether there was poor communication or inaction in the middle.
然而一位来自欧洲某机构的人士向《财经》记者表示，海外捐赠的物资如何进入武汉，尚有必要流程要走，他们购买的上万只口罩，何时能送进武汉，目前也不确定。
However, a person from a European institution told Caijing that it was not certain how the donated goods would get into Wuhan and when the tens of thousands of masks they bought would be delivered to Wuhan.
除了物资不足，部分医院隔离床位也有限。
In addition to material shortages, some hospitals have limited isolation beds.
据了解，在湖北孝感汉川某医院内，感染科床位不够后，部分疑似病人被转去了急诊科。
It is understood that in a hospital in Hubei filial piety Hanchuan, infected beds are insufficient, some of the suspected patients were transferred to the emergency department.
和疑似病人住在一起的，还有深夜送来急诊科的外伤病人，以及，尚未出院的孩子。
Also staying with suspected patients were trauma patients brought to the emergency department late at night, and children who had not been discharged from the hospital.
一位医护人员表示，从1月20日到23日，该院急诊科接手的有发热症状的病人已经超过160人。
From January 20 to 23, more than 160 patients with fever symptoms were taken over by the hospital's emergency department, a paramedic said.
该院从1月23日早上开始实施部分隔离，连夜赶建的隔离区一日之间就已经住满了病人，其他部分疑似病人被叮嘱“戴好口罩、不要走动”。
The hospital began partial isolation on the morning of January 23, filling the overnight quarantine zone with patients, with others suspected of "wearing masks and not walking."
第三个8小时：总会有好消息的1月23日下午4点，武汉协和医院发布了上呼吸道感染及病毒样肺炎初步诊疗方案，其中根据12种不同的临床特征提供了相关的诊疗策略。
At 4: 00 p.m. on January 23, Wuhan Hsiao Ho Hospital issued a preliminary diagnosis and treatment plan for upper respiratory tract infection and viral pneumonia, offering relevant diagnosis and treatment strategies based on 12 different clinical features.
对于确诊病例和在家自我隔离的疑似病例，最需要备的药品有口服莫西沙星、左氧氟沙星、奥司他韦等药。
For confirmed cases and suspected cases of self-isolation at home, the drugs most in need are oral moxifloxacin, levofloxacin and oseltamivir.
周学情绪激动地告诉《财经》记者：“终于出方案了！”对于他这样的疑似病患，最怕的就是无医可查、无药可吃。
Zhou Xuefei told Caijing agitatedly: "Finally out of the scheme!" For such a suspected patient, the most feared is no medical records, no medicine to eat.
在大量疑似病例面前、在没有排到床位的确诊病例之前，药品方案和轻症治愈的案例，至少能让人们安心一点。
In the face of a large number of suspected cases, and before there are confirmed cases that do not reach the bed, drug regimens and cases of mild cases can at least reassure people.
但目前药品的储备量并不容乐观。
But stocks of drugs are not promising.
《财经》记者通过致电了解了武汉几家大药房的备货情况，普遍情况是：上述药卖得快、库存少，需要临时进货。
"Caijing" reporter through the telephone to understand the state of several major pharmacies in Wuhan, the general situation is: the above-mentioned drugs sold quickly, stock small, need temporary stock.
汉口火车站附近的养天和药房，人流量巨大，近日因防疫，莫西沙星已经断货，只剩20盒奥司他韦。
Hankou railway station near the day and pharmacy, huge traffic, recently due to vaccination, moxifloxacin has been out of stock, only 20 boxes of oseltamivir.
而口罩、消毒液等物资，早在近几日被抢购一空。
And supplies such as masks and disinfectants have been snapped up in recent days.
春节和“封城”加速了药物的短缺情况：《财经》记者采访的5家药房都将在1月24日春节假期歇业。
Spring Festival and city closures have accelerated the shortage of drugs: All five pharmacies interviewed by Caijing will close during the Spring Festival holiday on January 24.
有的药房表示，正月初四（1月28日）可能会营业，取决于“封城”后的进货结果。
Some pharmacies say it is possible to open on Thursday of January 28, depending on what happens when the city is closed.
放假后大门紧闭的药房1月23日下午6点，武汉下起了小雨，街上只有少量车辆，基本看不到行人。
On January 23, at 6: 00 pm, a light rain began to fall in Wuhan. There were only a few vehicles in the street and few people could be seen.
周学下楼买药，发现药店已经关门。
Zhou went downstairs to buy medicine and found the drugstore was closed.
但同时，他家楼下的棋牌室仍然热热闹闹。
But at the same time, the chess room downstairs was still noisy.
这是武汉人热衷的休闲娱乐，尤其是过年期间。
This is Wuhan people's enthusiasm for leisure and entertainment, especially during the New Year.
从窗户看进去，里面开着空调，人们穿着薄薄的毛衣，正在豪爽地推牌，几乎没有人戴口罩。
Looking through the window, the air-conditioner was on, people were wearing thin sweaters, pushing cards bravely, and almost no one was wearing masks.
小区楼下如火如荼的棋牌室周学告诉记者，他所在小区还有不少独居的老人。
Zhouxue, a chess room in full swing downstairs, told reporters that there were many old people living alone in his neighborhood.
他们的孩子在外工作，因疫情放弃回家过年，但又不放心家里老人，社区也没有提供相关的慰问，只能兜兜转转找到他，希望能帮忙照看。
Their children work outside, due to the epidemic situation gave up going home for the New Year, but do not trust the elderly family, the community did not provide relevant condolences, can only turn around to find him, hoping to help look after him.
但周学现在已经是疑似案例，他能做的，不比老人在外的孩子多。
But Zhou is now a suspect case, he can do no more than the elderly children outside.
“这些老人又不会从手机里看最新消息，他们打开电视，看的也多是新年喜庆景象，不知道他们这年怎么过，如果真的身体不舒服，又该怎么去医院。
"These older people don't get the latest news from their cell phones. They turn on the TV and watch a festive New Year's Eve and wonder how they are going to get to the hospital if they are really sick.
”周学担忧道。
"Zhou Xue worried.
获悉女朋友平安到达泉州后，王深回到家做了一顿饭，他囤了够吃一周的粮食。
After learning that his girlfriend had arrived safely in Quanzhou, Wang returned home to cook a meal, for which he hoarded food for a week.
饭后，他去公司取了趟东西。
After dinner, he went to the office to pick up something.
此时的武汉光谷智慧园，路上人很少，但办公楼仍有5、6层亮着灯。
At this time, Wuhan Guanggu Wisdom Park, few people on the road, but office buildings still have 5, 6 floors bright lights.
有人已经回家，有人还在加班。
Some have gone home and some are still working overtime.
仍有人加班的光谷智慧园而对于武汉的多数医生，几乎没有太多休息的时间。
There are still people working overtime at the Guanggu Wisdom Park, and for most doctors in Wuhan, there is little time for rest.
武汉五院的医生到夜间还不能下班，其他不是定点医院的医生，也在1月23日被通知取消春节休假，随时待命。
Wuhan five hospitals doctors can not work at night, other doctors are not designated hospitals, January 23 was also informed to cancel the Spring Festival holiday, ready to be on call.
下班后，院里的医生有班车接送，但站点并不能通过所有医生家附近。
There is a shuttle bus service for doctors in the hospital after work, but the station does not pass near all the doctors' homes.
一位医生告诉《财经》记者：“早上上班估计只能靠滴滴了。
One doctor told Caijing: "It's only a drop in the morning."
”但1月24日凌晨传来消息，应武汉新冠肺炎防控指挥部要求，滴滴将暂停武汉市内的网约车运营，接受统一调配。
But in the early hours of January 24, it was announced that, at the request of Wuhan Xinguan Pneumonia Control Command, drip-drip would suspend the operation of network cars in Wuhan city and accept the unified deployment.
1月23日晚间，《财经》记者再次联系市七院时，对方表示上面通知不能再接受采访，需要任何信息都需要转向医院媒体处。
On the evening of January 23, Caijing reporter contacted Caijing once again, the other side said the above notice can no longer be interviewed, need any information need to turn to the hospital media office.
同时，一家对外发布寻求捐赠物资信息的定点医院，也收到了通知，要求尽快删除相关消息，并不能再随意转发类似信息。
At the same time, a designated hospital that publishes information seeking donations has also been notified that relevant information should be deleted as soon as possible and that similar information can no longer be relayed at will.
1月23日晚上12点左右，李岚从十堰太和医院出来。
January 23 around 12: 00 p.m., Li Lan from Shiyan Taihe Hospital came out.
她已经出现了发热和全身无力症状，准备回家自我隔离，等待医院抽血结果。
She had developed fever and general weakness and was ready to go home and isolate herself, awaiting the results of the hospital's blood sample.
她告诉《财经》记者，她庆幸在武汉“封城”前赶回了老家，因为在医院值过班，她认为武汉周边城市的人较少，就诊相较武汉不会那么紧张。
She told Caijing she was glad to get back to her hometown before Wuhan "closed the city" because she had worked in a hospital and thought there were fewer people around Wuhan, and doctors would be less nervous than Wuhan.
也是在1月23日晚上，《长江日报》发布了专家组副组长在家自愈新冠肺炎的文章。
Also on the evening of 23 January, the Changjiang Daily published an article by the Deputy Group Leader on self-healing pneumonia in his home.
周学看到后，决定放弃第二天早起去医院的计划，选择在家隔离吃口服药，避免在拥挤的门诊与重症患者交叉感染，同时减轻医疗资源的负担。
When Zhou learned, he decided to give up the plan of getting up early and going to the hospital the next day. He chose to take oral medicine in isolation at home to avoid cross-infection with serious patients in a crowded clinic, while reducing the burden on medical resources.
在过去24小时的采访过程中，不管是医生、护士、病患、疑似病患，还是星夜出城的市民、着急的母亲、加班的创业者，没人提到现在是春节，今天是除夕。
During the past 24 hours of interviews, no one mentioned that it was Spring Festival or New Year's Eve, whether it was a doctor, a nurse, a patient, a suspected patient, a citizen leaving town at night, a worried mother, an over-worked entrepreneur.
《财经》记者将持续跟踪武汉重大疫情防治进展，继续发来相关报道。
Caijing will continue to follow the progress of major epidemic prevention and treatment in Wuhan, and continue to send relevant reports.
（文中 王深、肖学、罗新、李岚为化名） “武汉肺炎”疫情系列报道▷ 点击图片查看责编| 黄端duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
In this article, Wang Sheng, Xiao Xin, Luo Xin and Li Lan are alias. Wuhan Pneumonia, an epidemic situation in Wuhan Pneumonia is reported in this series.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉“封城”首日实录：医院少床位、防护缺资源、病患难隔离。
Wuhan "closure" on the first day of the record: hospitals with fewer beds, lack of resources for protection, disease and isolation.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉“封城”首日实录：医院少床位、防护缺资源、病患难隔离";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "不管是医生、护士、病患、疑似病患，还是星夜出城的情侣、着急的母亲、加班的创业者，没有人提到现在是春节，今天是除夕";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; whether it's a doctor, nurse, patient, suspected patient, star-nightly couple, worried mother, overtime entrepreneur, nobody says it's Spring Festival.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
