不止有武汉：湖北疫区16城实录 （上篇）。
There is more than Wuhan: Hubei epidemic area 16 cities recorded (Part I).
房宫一柳 等。
a willow house etc.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
各方资源和关注的焦点是武汉，但在周边16座也因疫情而被封闭的城市里，他们正在经历着什么文|《财经》记者 房宫一柳 宋玮 黎诗韵 管艺雯 陈晶 余洋洋实习生 马可欣 张凡编辑|宋玮1月24日，农历鼠年除夕夜，《财经》记者接到了湖北麻城市一位年轻女孩的电话。
Wuhan is the focus of resources and attention, but at least some of the 16 surrounding cities that have also been closed by the epidemic are experiencing what & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
她的亲人在市医院工作，据说相关物资只够使用几天，还有一位亲人在乡镇医院，戴着简陋的一次性口罩接待发热病人，防护程度严重不足。
Her relatives work in the city hospital, where the supplies are said to last only a few days, and a relative is severely underprotected in a township hospital, wearing rudimentary disposable masks to receive febrile patients.
担心着亲人们的安危，女孩突然哭了起来：“他们真的什么都没有，什么都没有...”这是湖北疫区的普通一角，但外界知之甚少。
Worried about the safety of her relatives, the girl suddenly began to cry: "They really nothing, nothing..." This is the common corner of Hubei epidemic area, but little is known.
“全国的目光都在武汉，但湖北不是只有一个武汉。
"The whole country is looking at Wuhan, but Hubei is not the only Wuhan.
”一位荆州市医院一线医护人员的家属告诉《财经》记者，她已经连续三天没有休息，在为父亲所在的医院向社会求助。
A family member of a front-line medical worker at Jingzhou Hospital told Caijing that she had not taken three days off to seek help from society at her father's hospital.
她联系了一些爱心物资提供商，都回复她：武汉优先。
She contacted a number of love goods providers, all reply to her: Wuhan first.
因为是武汉周边城市，这些医院并不具备应对突发公共卫生事件的充分经验，但疫情严重，它们也成了定点医院。
As Wuhan periphery city, these hospitals do not have the sufficient experience to deal with the public health emergency, but the outbreak is serious, they also become the designated hospital.
这些地区发热门诊同样人满为患——它们是与武汉人口往来最多的地区。
Fever clinics in these areas are also overcrowded - they are the most popular with Wuhan.
它们也缺口罩、缺防护服，没有足够床位。
They are also covered with gaps, lack protective clothing and do not have enough beds.
按往年惯例，湖北这些城市的人们提前为春节备好了年货、团圆饭，但很少有东西是为突发疫情或“封城”而准备的。
As is customary in previous years, people in these cities in Hubei prepared New Year's Eve goods and reunion dinner in advance for the Spring Festival, but few things were prepared for sudden outbreaks of disease or "city closures."
武汉“封城”的消息是1月23日上午确认的，此时已经腊月二十九，各种防护物资迅速抢购一空，连一些生活用品也突然变得紧俏。
Wuhan "closed the city" was confirmed on the morning of January 23, by which time the twenty-ninth, a variety of protective materials quickly purchased, even some supplies have suddenly become tight.
武汉作为湖北资源的集中地尚且紧绷至极，武汉周边城市的境况可想而知。
Wuhan as the center of Hubei resources is tight to the extreme, Wuhan surrounding cities can be imagined.
荆州一线医护人员肖力告诉《财经》记者，之前官方报道说：“可防可控”、“没有迹象人传人”，他们没有及时准备物资，甚至在接待病人初期没有必要的防护。
Xiao Li, a front-line medical worker in Jingzhou, told Caijing that officials had previously reported that there was "no evidence of human-to-human transmission," that supplies were not prepared in time and that there was no necessary protection even in the early stages of receiving patients.
突然之间，发热病人大批涌入，物资缺口迅速拉大。
Suddenly, feverish patients poured in and the material gap widened rapidly.
肖力所在的医院正到处寻找N95口罩、护目镜，甚至自己掏钱去高价购买防护物资。
Xiao Li's hospital is searching for N95 masks, goggles and even paying for high-priced protective gear.
武汉之外这些地区，医疗资源更稀缺、信息沟通更不畅，应急现状堪忧。
Outside Wuhan, these areas, medical resources are more scarce, information communication less smooth, emergency situation is worrying.
多数人恐惧的，不是灾难、病痛，而是未知。
What most people fear is not disaster, sickness, but the unknown.
不少医生不知道何时能有充足的防护物资，更多患者不知道自己是否得病，市民不知道病例是否有瞒报、交通“封城”何时结束，民众不知道政府何时会有新的大范围行动。
Many doctors do not know when to have adequate protective equipment, more patients do not know whether they are ill, citizens do not know whether cases are underreported, when the traffic "closure" will end, and people do not know when the government will have a new large-scale operation.
而对于人人自危的新型冠状病毒肺炎，当地许多人更是病源未知、特效药未知、传播方式未知。
But for everybody's new coronavirus pneumonia, many local people are unknown, specific drugs unknown, the mode of transmission is unknown.
1月26日上午，有三名医生从罗田县一同返回黄岗中心医院来上班，他们的同事告诉《财经》记者，“他们做好了进去就出不来的准备。
On the morning of January 26, three doctors returned to work at Huanggang Central Hospital from Luotian County. "They are ready to go in," their colleagues told Caijing.
”在未知、恐慌以及某些不以为然的复杂氛围中，在武汉之外这些同样被疫情困扰的城市里，人们正在经历一个罕见的冷清春节。
Outside Wuhan, in a complex atmosphere of uncertainty, panic and disapproval, people are experiencing a rare, cold Spring Festival outside Wuhan, a city also plagued by epidemics.
1月24日，央视春晚增加了致敬湖北肺炎战场的诗朗诵节目，但《财经》记者接触到的湖北一线医护人员几乎没人有机会直接听到，在本该万家灯火、阖家团圆的节日里，他们在医院加班，不停接诊、救治病患。
On January 24, CCTV Spring Festival Gala increased poetry recitation to salute the battlefield of Hubei Pneumonia, but few of the front-line Hubei medical personnel contacted by Caijing have had the opportunity to hear them directly.
在湖北相继“封城”的那些周边城市中，那些躺在病床上的患者、陪护的家属、在家里自我隔离的市民，亦五味杂陈地消化这些屏幕上的祝福。
In the surrounding cities where Hubei has been "closed" to the outside world, patients lying in beds, accompanying family members, and isolated citizens at home have digested the blessings on these screens with mixed feelings.
截止1月26日上午发稿为止，除省会武汉外，湖北共“封城”16座，包括：鄂州、仙桃、枝江、潜江、黄冈、赤壁、荆门、咸宁、黄石（含大冶市、阳新县）、当阳、恩施、孝感、宜昌、荆州、随州、十堰，整个湖北基本被武汉肺炎疫情覆盖。
As of the morning of January 26, in addition to the provincial capital Wuhan, Hubei "closed" a total of 16, including: Huizhou, Xiantao, Zhijiang, Qijiang, Huanggang, Chibi, Jingmen, Xianning, Huang Shi (including Daye City, Yangxin County), Dangyang, Enshi, filial piety, Yichang, Jingzhou, Suizhou and Shiyan.
《财经》记者先后通过电话、微信等方式采访了这16个城市里四十余名一线医护人员、市民、疑似病患，写下这16个城市里这些普通人的故事，分上下两篇刊出，希望外界可以更多了解这些被疫情困扰的城市里，普通人的现状与期待。
Through telephone calls and letters, Caijing interviewed more than 40 front-line medical workers, citizens and suspected patients in these 16 cities, and wrote down the stories of these ordinary people in these 16 cities in two separate editions, hoping to find out more about the situation and expectations of ordinary people in these epidemic-stricken cities.
1荆州，一线医护人员：“我看到了人性之恶，但我们不能停止。
1 Jingzhou, front-line medical personnel: "I saw the evil of human nature, but we can not stop.
”1月23日上午10时，武汉正式“封城”。
Wuhan officially closed the city at 10 a.m. on January 23.
但一上班，荆州市某三甲医院就接诊了二三十位开车从武汉出城就诊的市民。
However, once at work, a hospital in Jingzhou city on the acceptance of 20 or 30 driving out of the city of Wuhan residents.
他们多数都在早上6点天未亮时就开车出了武汉，到达荆州时，有人还在发烧、咳嗽。
Most of them drove out of Wuhan before dawn at 6 a. m. and when they arrived in Jingzhou, people still had a fever and coughing.
“很多人会责怪他们明知生病还出城，但不跑怎么办？武汉各医院根本没位置收治。
"Many people blame them for leaving the city knowing they are sick, but don't run? Wuhan hospitals have no places at all.
”接诊的荆州市某三甲医院护士田梦秋说，1月23日接诊的病人80%以上都是当天或几天前从武汉开车而来。
Tian Mengqiu, a nurse at a hospital in Jingzhou, said more than 80 percent of patients admitted on January 23 had come by car from Wuhan on the same day or a few days ago.
从武汉到荆州，全程约221.9公里，走最近的沪渝高速，车程需3小时18分。
From Wuhan to Jingzhou, the whole journey is about 221.9 kilometers, taking the nearest Shanghai-Chongqing expressway, which takes three hours and 18 minutes.
荆州离武汉并不近，尚且有不少人开车从武汉来看病，还有一些是从洪湖、仙桃等周边城市过来的病人。
Jingzhou is not close to Wuhan, and there are still many people driving from Wuhan to see doctors, there are also some from Honghu, Xiantao and other peripheral cities from patients.
“我们腾了两层楼，仅23号一天，基本住满了。
"We've gained two floors, just one day on the 23rd, and are almost fully occupied.
”她说，有一位来看病的女士，老公在武汉确诊了，她自己没有任何症状，但是特意开车从武汉回荆州来检查。
She said a woman who had come to see a doctor and whose husband had been diagnosed in Wuhan had no symptoms of her own, but had deliberately driven from Wuhan to Jingzhou to be examined.
“人性之恶我今天算是看到了。
I have seen the wickedness of humanity to-day.
”这位护士说。
"said the nurse.
她亲眼看到一家四口从武汉来看病，他们先在武汉某医院就诊，但医院说不发烧、没收治，让他们自行在家隔离观察。
She saw a family of four from Wuhan to see a doctor, they first see a hospital in Wuhan, but the hospital said no fever, confiscation of treatment, let them their own home isolation observation.
但这家人没听医生的话，先是跑到荆州另一家医院就诊，做了检查、确诊，通知要隔离，结果一家人又跑了。
But the family did not listen to the doctor, first went to another hospital in Jingzhou, check-up, diagnosis, notification to quarantine, the family ran away.
“又跑来我们医院就诊，来了后大吵大闹，要求医院马上给安排救治。
"Come to our hospital to see a doctor, after the uproar, asked the hospital to arrange treatment immediately.
”但根据规定，在其他医院确诊后要转诊，需要通过卫计委重新确诊。
However, referrals to other hospitals are required after confirmation and need to be re-diagnosed by the Planning Commission.
“于是他们开始各种吵闹，怎么劝都不听。
Then they began to make so many noises that they could not be persuaded to listen.
”“这一路上不晓得传染多少人了。
"" I don't know how many people were infected along the way.
”田梦秋说，“不理解他们为什么要这样做，我有时候甚至会怀疑他们是恶意的，但我告诉自己不要这么想。
"I don't understand why they do this, and I sometimes even suspect they mean it, but I tell myself not to think so.
”还有一名患者，22号来做检查，高度疑似，结果检查结果出来之前偷偷跑了，后来医院安排保安去找，却发现身份证是假的，电话也不接。
Another patient, 22, came for a test and was highly suspicious. As a result, the hospital secretly ran away before the results came out.
接受《财经》采访的一些医护人员称，部分感染的病患，心态是非常差的。
Some of the infected patients are in a very bad state of mind, according to some healthcare professionals interviewed by Caijing.
“有人明知生病也不好好戴口罩，巴不得别人也跟着病，有人甚至强拉护士口罩对护士喷气。
"Some people don't wear masks when they know they're sick, and others might even force them to put on their masks and puff at nurses.
”田梦秋说。
"said Tian.
一名武汉大学人民医院的医生也表达了同样的困惑，他说，“有的患者会撕开你的面罩向你吐口水。
A doctor at Wuhan University's People's Hospital expressed the same confusion, saying: "Some patients will tear open your mask and spit on you.
他们说，‘没有药谁也别想好’。
They say, 'No one can think without medicine'.
”“我现在几乎天天上班，早上拖着紫外线灯管一个病房一个病房消毒，买了一堆毛巾，大家都洗澡消毒了回家，每天工作服脱下来消毒第二天再穿。
"" I work almost every day, sterilizing a ward in the morning with an ultraviolet ray tube, buying a pile of towels, all taking baths and disinfecting them, and taking off my work clothes and disinfecting them the next day.
”田梦秋说，医院防护设备紧缺，但每天会给病人及家属发放口罩，结果每天早上都一圈人围过来要口罩。
Tian said hospitals were short of protective equipment but gave patients and their families face masks every day, with the result that a circle of people gathered around each morning to demand masks.
要知道，除了一线人员有防护服、护目镜、N95口罩，其他人员都只是戴着普通医疗口罩工作。
You know, except for front-line staff with protective clothing, goggles, and N95 masks, the rest of the staff are simply wearing normal medical masks.
包括院长。
Including the President.
另一名护士说，有一天她去上厕所，回来发现，放在抽屉里的近百个口罩被偷了。
Another nurse said she went to the toilet one day and came back to find that nearly a hundred masks had been stolen from her drawer.
丢失的口罩物资不够时，同事们掏出家里的泳镜作护目镜，浴帽套头上做帽子，文件袋作头套。
When supplies of the lost masks were insufficient, colleagues took out their swimming goggles for goggles, hats on bathrobe covers, and paper bags as hoods.
田梦秋笑称，同事们都成了“发明家”。
Tian said with a smile that colleagues have become "inventors."
据了解，1月22日该医院发热就诊患者超过100人，接下来两天里就诊患者均超过300人。
It is understood that on January 22, the hospital febrile patients more than 100 patients, the next two days each more than 300 patients.
另一位医护人员告诉《财经》记者，他们很快发现一些规律，比如超市是重灾区。
Another medical worker told Caijing that they soon found some rules, such as supermarkets being the hardest hit areas.
超市往往空间封闭且人流量大，易感染，荆州一家超市被发现其中多数员工都出现了发热症状。
Supermarkets are often closed space and large traffic, easy to infection, Jingzhou a supermarket was found that most of the staff have fever symptoms.
卫计委会给湖北各医院下传疫情通报和基本防范培训指南，这份指南不断更新，但到现在也没有确定确切传染途径。
The CPPC has updated the Guidelines on Outbreak Notification and Basic Preventive Training for Hubei hospitals, but has not yet determined the exact route of transmission.
其中提到，发病到入院的中位时间是9天；部分病患发病到出现呼吸困难仅7天左右；患者年龄集中在40-60岁，暂未出现儿童病患；危重症占15%，多位老年人、有基础病者、肥胖者。
The median time between onset of illness and admission was 9 days; some patients had difficulty breathing for only about 7 days; patients aged 40-60 were concentrated and there were no children; 15 per cent were critically ill and many were elderly, basic and obese.
但有医院发现，实际排查情况与指南有差异，指南说患者多发年龄是40-60岁，“但我们有一天的排查结果是——基本20-40岁多见。
But some hospitals have found discrepancies between actual screening and the guidelines, which say patients tend to be 40-60 years old, "but one day we found out - mostly 20-40-year-olds.
还有些到去世都没有咳嗽的，也不发烧。
Some of them died without coughing or fever.
”上述人士说。
'said the man.
这些去世但没有确诊的案例，会不会被记录在确诊死亡病例之中？无人回应。
Will these deaths, which have not been confirmed, be recorded in the confirmed death cases? No response.
医院从1个诊室扩到3个，1个分诊护士扩到4个，日夜不间断接诊，医护人员没有充足的防护服更换，基本能节约就忍着。
Hospitals were expanded from one to three consultation rooms, one visiting nurse to four, round-the-clock consultations, and medical staff did not have sufficient protective clothing to be replaced, which was largely cost-effective.
医院调人去发热门诊，诊疗后直接化验，开设临时检验，拍片设备也临时抽调，避免和其他患者混合一起交叉感染。
Hospital transfer to fever clinic, direct test after diagnosis and treatment, set up temporary testing, film equipment also temporary withdrawal, to avoid mixed with other patients with cross-infection.
医院还紧急腾空了三个病区，把本来分流到其他科室的病人集中收治，发热门诊也单独设置，与门诊通道分开。
The hospital also emptied three of the affected areas on an emergency basis, centralizing the treatment of patients who had previously been diverted to other sections, and set up a separate fever clinic separate from the outpatient access.
床位不够。
There are not enough beds.
CT提示大白肺，病况较重医院才能收，轻症的只能开药然后回家观察。
CT indicates that large white lung, serious illness can only be collected in hospitals, mild cases can only be prescribed medicine and then home observation.
因为这类病人对消毒隔离及床间距都有要求，以前一个病房收三个病人，现在一个病房也许只能收一个，何况本身医院还有很多其他重病患者。
Because of these patients' requirement for sterile isolation and spacing of beds, a ward used to accommodate three patients, but now a ward may be able to take only one, not to mention its own many other seriously ill patients.
留观的只能躺地铺或者排椅上。
The visitors can only lie on the floor or the row of chairs.
“很多病人和家属并不理解没有对症药是什么意思，也并不了解即使住院也不是立刻就能好起来。
"Many patients and their families don't understand what it means to be without a prescription, and don't understand that even if you're in hospital you don't get well right away.
觉得来医院最好争分夺秒住进去，立刻一群医生治疗，这样就会很快好起来。
I think the best time to come to the hospital to live in, immediately a group of doctors to treat, so that will soon get better.
”但医护人员随时随地、反馈发热门诊和收治情况。
But health-care workers report fever clinics and admissions anytime, anywhere.
“所有人都是自愿，没人强迫。
"It's all voluntary, no one's forced.
”1月25日，荆州卫计委下达指令，要全市统一调配床位出来收治病人，然后把上报的渠道全部下放到每个病区，自行填报。
On January 25, the Jingzhou Health and Planning Commission issued a directive requiring the city to allocate beds uniformly for patients, and then to decentralize all reporting channels to each area and file their own reports.
这对紧绷的一线来说，是个好消息。
This is good news for a tight line.
同时，1月25日就诊的病人变少了，田梦秋认为这是因为“封城”的作用：流动人员减少、交叉感染几率降低。
At the same time, fewer patients attended the clinic on January 25, which Tian Mengqiu attributes to a "closed city": fewer people on the move and less chance of cross-infection.
一名刚来医院不久的护士有一次下夜班时突然抱住她，哭了，这名年轻护士说：“我好害怕，我真的好害怕。
A nurse who had recently arrived at the hospital suddenly hugged her at night and cried. The young nurse said, "I'm so scared. I'm really scared.
”截至2020年1月26日00:32分，湖北省累计报告新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎病例761例，其荆州市10例。
As of 00: 32 January 2020, a total of 761 cases of pneumonia with a new coronavirus infection have been reported in Hubei Province, with 10 cases in Jingzhou.
2洪湖，父亲高烧的市民：“大家不要骂逃跑的湖北人了，我们只是为了活着。
2 Honghu, father of the citizens with high fever: "Do not scold the escape of Hubei people, we are just to live.
”1月24日除夕夜晚上，小易的父亲开始高烧，他赶紧上网查症状，但通过网上罗列的各类信息根本没法判断病情如何，他连夜带爸爸去了最近的洪湖市第二医院就医。
On January 24, New Year's Eve, Xiao Yi's father had a high fever. He rushed to the Internet to check his symptoms, but he couldn't tell what was wrong with the various kinds of information on the Internet.
洪湖市第二医院是荆州官方公布的发热门诊清单中的医院，属洪湖市和武汉大学中南医院合作的医院。
Honghu City Hospital No. 2 is the official list of fever clinics in Jingzhou hospitals are Honghu City and Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital cooperation hospital.
但因为除夕，医院发热门诊已经停诊了，只有内科医生值班。
But because of New Year's Eve, the hospital fever clinic has been closed, only physicians on duty.
值班的医生只有一个外科用口罩，没有护目镜、防护衣。
The doctor on duty had only one surgical mask, no goggles, no protective clothing.
小易告诉《财经》记者，父亲做完X光、抽血检验完，时间差不多晚上8点，但刚刚看病的医生说自己下班了，小易只能带着父亲去住院科找医生，小小的诊室里挤了十几个人，大人小孩都有。
Xiao Yi told Caijing that his father had finished X-ray and blood sample test. It was about 8 pm, but the doctor who had just seen him said he was off duty. Xiao Yi had to take his father to the hospital for a doctor.
医生看完结果说，“我们这里检查不了新型肺炎，需要去市人民医院。
The doctor looked at the results and said, "We can't check the new pneumonia here. We need to go to the Municipal People's Hospital.
”接着开了一些流感药让小易带着父亲回家观察。
"He then prescribed some flu medicines to take Xiao Yi home with his father to watch.
“官方发布的这个信息实在不能让人满意，列了一个不能检查的医院，算什么？医院的基本防护措施都没有，又算什么？”他说。
"The official release of this information is not satisfactory. What is a hospital that cannot be inspected? What is a hospital without basic precautions?" he said.
停顿了一会，小易对《财经》记者补充道，“希望网友们不要骂那些逃跑的武汉人、湖北人了，如果你在，你也会做出这种选择，只为了活着。
After a pause, Xiao Yi added to Caijing, "I hope netizens don't scold Wuhan and Hubei people who run away. If you are here, you will make this choice just to live.
”3潜江，油田医院医生：“ 市委书记来医院暗访了”潜江市中心医院的医护人员截止1月26日上午10时，潜江仍然是湖北唯一“封城”但尚无新型冠状肺炎确诊案例的城市。
"Submerged river, oilfield hospital doctor:" Municipal Party secretary came to the hospital unannounced visit "As of 10: 00 a.m. on January 26, the Qianjiang River is still the only city in Hubei Province with no confirmed cases of new coronary pneumonia.
《财经》记者电话采访当地人时发现，始终没有确诊病患——对于这座城市的很多人来说，不算是一个好消息，反而激起了他们更大的担忧和猜测。
In a telephone interview with locals, Caijing found that there had been no confirmed cases - not good news for many in the city, but rather more concern and speculation.
一位潜江中心医院的医护人员说，目前感染科已经全部住满了，医院每天有不少疑似患者。
A paramedic at the Submerged Central Hospital said the infection department was now fully staffed and the hospital had a number of suspected patients every day.
该医院是潜江最大的医院。
The hospital is the largest in the Qianjiang River.
潜江中心医院感染科一名护士告诉《财经》杂志，医院设备落后，没有试剂盒，无法确诊。
A nurse at the Infection Department of the Qianjiang Central Hospital told Caijing magazine that the hospital was poorly equipped and did not have kits to confirm the diagnosis.
另一位接受采访的护士也表示，她没有看到科室内有核酸检测盒。
Another nurse interviewed said she did not see nucleic acid test kits in the department.
潜江第二大医院——潜江油田医院的一名医生说，目前医院隔离病房已收治10余例患者，但不能做检测，需要将标本往上报，让卫健委来检测。
A doctor at the Qianjiang Oilfield Hospital, the second-largest hospital in the river, said the hospital had admitted more than 10 patients but could not be tested.
上述医生还提到，医院本有PCR（临床基因扩增检验实验室），但是这两年检测做得很少，检测室几近荒废，资质也过期了。
The doctors also mentioned that PCR (Clinical Genome Augmentation Laboratory) was available in the hospital, but little testing was done in the past two years and the testing rooms were almost dilapidated and their qualifications expired.
“我自己也发烧了，做了CT。
"I've got a fever myself. I've got a CT scan.
“虽然是医生，但是对于冠状病毒的发病症状，他并不比普通市民多确定多少。
"Although he is a doctor, he is not much more certain than the general public about the coronavirus.
他听一个同行说，对方医院一个晚上做了600个CT，有部分人是因为恐惧而就医。
He heard from a colleague that the other hospital had done 600 CT scans a night, some of them for fear.
“前几天晚上，市委书记还来暗访了，看我们防护手段是否到位。
"The other night, the party secretary came in unannounced to see if our protective measures were in place.
”上述油田医院的医生说。
"said the doctor at the oilfield hospital.
1月25日下午15：29，潜江市疾控中心通报，初步确定新型肺炎疑似病例14例——这也是潜江首次通报疑似病例。
January 25 15: 29 p.m., Qianjiang City CDC reported that initially identified 14 new cases of suspected pneumonia - this is also the first reported suspected cases of Qianjiang.
一位医生第一时间把这个通报发给了记者，“终于有了”，他说。
A doctor first sent the announcement to reporters, "finally," he said.
潜江，忧心忡忡的年轻人：“为了阻止爸爸出去打麻将，女儿报警了。
"Diving River, a worried young man:" To stop Dad from playing Mahjong, my daughter called the police.
”在潜江，通常是除夕当天下午2点左右开始吃团圆饭，4点左右吃完，到晚上8点看春晚之间，还有几个小时的空闲时间，他们往往会选择打麻将度过。
In the submerged river, where the reunion dinner usually begins at about 2 p.m. on New Year's Eve, it is eaten around 4 p.m., and a few hours between 8 p.m. and the Spring Festival Evening, they often choose to play Mahjong.
“让家人戴口罩，没问题；让家人别聚餐别上街，没问题；让家人别拜年，也没问题。
"Let the family wear masks, no problem; let the family do not go to the street dinner, no problem; let the family do not call New Year, no problem.
让家人别打麻将，不行。
Let the family stop playing mahjong. No.
“潜江市民周露说，她有一个亲戚要出去打麻将。
Zhoulu says one of her relatives is going out to play Mahjong.
为了阻拦爸爸，她女儿打电话报了警。
To stop her father, her daughter called the police.
“人心惶惶是真的，老一辈的人觉得不会发生在自己身上也是真的。
"It's true that fear doesn't happen to you in the older generation.
”周露告诉《财经》记者。
Zhou told Caijing.
一位在潜江市下属农村的采访对象提到，因为村里没有确诊案例，他感受到村里对事情的认知程度太低了——老人们完全不在乎，该走家串户还是走。
An interviewee in a suburban village said he felt the village's awareness of the situation was too low because there were no confirmed cases -- elderly people simply don't care whether to go door-to-door or go.
上述市民说，他的心路历程是：怀疑-认识到重要性-自我保护-向周围人强调做好防护-呆在家中尽量不外出。
His path, the citizen said, was to doubt - to recognize the importance - to protect himself - to emphasize protection to those around him - to stay at home as long as possible.
现在最关心什么时候能解除封城，可以自由进出，什么时候可以去上班、正常进出电影院。
Now the most concerned about when to lift the closure of the city, free access, when to go to work, normal access to the cinema.
在采访普通市民的过程中，《财经》记者感受到，如果采访的是年轻市民，他们往往会抱怨、忧心长辈不够重视；如果采访的是年长者，则可能会说：“他们还什么都没经历过。
In interviews with ordinary citizens, Caijing said they often complain and worry about their elders not being taken seriously if they interview young citizens. If they interview elderly people, they may say, "They haven't experienced anything yet.
”周露说，潜江市政府行动的还算及时，娱乐场所全部关闭，酒店不得开麻将房，餐厅不得接收聚会宴席，火车站也关闭了。
Zhoulu said the action by the submerged city government was timely, with all recreational venues closed, hotels barred from mahjong rooms, restaurants closed to party banquets and railway stations closed.
“我们同学群里得知街上在免费派发口罩，但是没有人敢上街领取。
"We learned from the group that free masks were being distributed on the street, but no one dared to pick them up.
”另一位接受采访的年轻市民说，他父亲工作于潜江最大的几所酒店之一，现在已经没有什么办酒席的人了，酒店正在低价向员工出售原本用于酒席的菜品年货。
Another young citizen interviewed said his father worked at one of the biggest hotels in the river and there were no more caterers, and the hotel was selling off new food items intended for restaurants to its staff at low prices.
几位采访对象都提到，为了宣传防护知识，潜江市的市委书记还编写了一个顺口溜在地方电视台里轮流播放。
Several interviewees mentioned that, in order to promote knowledge of protection, the municipal secretary of the city of Qianjiang also prepared a radio program that rotates on local TV stations.
4宜昌，在家隔离的发烧患者：“究竟能不能确诊？”当阳周边正在封路1月23日10点，武汉正式“封城”。
4 Yichang, isolated fever patient at home: "After all, can you confirm?" Dangyang Road around 10 o'clock January 23, Wuhan officially "closed the city.
封城前一天，夏成光从武汉出发赶往老家宜昌当阳市，在路上，他已经开始发烧，因为目睹了武汉疫情爆发的严重性，他一到当阳就赶往当地人民医院就诊，但医护人员并不紧张的态度让他很惊讶。
On his way to his hometown of Yichang Dangyang, Xia Chengguang had a fever the day before the city was closed. As soon as he arrived in the city, he rushed to the local people's hospital to check on the severity of the outbreak.
“从武汉回来，在路上发烧，属于非常疑似的患者，但就诊医生看上去并不紧张，让我去拍了CT，没有明显阴影，就直接让我走了。
"Back from Wuhan, with a fever on the road, is a very suspected patient, but the doctor did not look nervous, let me take a CT, no obvious shadow, directly let me go.
“夏成光告诉《财经》杂志记者，医生没有提醒他需要自我隔离的任何事宜。
"Xia told Caijing magazine that the doctor did not remind him of any need to isolate himself.
给的药都是一样的——抗炎症、退烧。
The medicine given is the same - anti-inflammatory, reduce fever.
“先让你在家里扛两天，高烧依旧不退再复诊。
"First let you carry two days at home, the fever is still not returned to the hospital.
”他说。
'he said.
夏成光的高烧仍在反复，网上舆情四起，他开始每晚做噩梦。
Xia Chengguang's high fever is still repeated, online public opinion everywhere, he began to have nightmares every night.
地方医院会对高度疑似的病例采取隔离手段，但这仅限于肺部有明显阴影的病患。
Local hospitals use isolation for highly suspected cases, but this is limited to patients with visible lung shadows.
这几天，一直没有社区管理人员上门做武汉拜访史的登记。
In the past few days, there has been no community management door-to-door Wuhan visit history registration.
他只能在家进行自我隔离，全程戴口罩，除夕夜吃饭，他让家人给自己夹好一些菜，窝在一旁吃。
He had to insulate himself at home, wear a mask and eat on New Year's Eve. He asked his family to pack some food for him and sit down to eat.
1月25日正月初一，夏成光再次来到医院，向发热门诊的坐诊医生明确要求要使用试剂盒确诊，医生告诉小瑞，“整个当阳、宜昌市都没有。
January 25, the first day of the first month, Xia Chengguang came to the hospital, fever clinic doctors specifically asked for the use of kits diagnosis, doctors told Xiao Rui, "the whole Dangyang, Yichang City do not.
”这个时候，医生接到电话，是一位两岁小孩的妈妈，她希望派个救护车到家里，小孩一直高烧不退，希望医生能够确诊。
"At the same time, the doctor got a call from the mother of a two-year-old who wanted an ambulance to come home with a fever and wanted the doctor to confirm it.
夏成光听到两位医生在交流，一个对另一个说，“把人拖过来我们也没法确诊，我不过去。
Xia Chengguang heard two doctors talking to each other, and one said to the other, "We can't diagnose people by towing them.
”夏成光立即追问医生，“究竟能不能确诊？”但他们都没有回答他，“我知道他们没有办法回答我。
"Xia Chengguang immediately asked the doctor," Can we get a diagnosis? "But they did not answer him.
”5鄂州，朋友被确诊的年轻市民：“没人会拿身边人造谣”鄂州市是离武汉最近的城市，坐城际铁路只要20分钟，也是紧跟武汉封城的第二座城市。
Huizhou, the closest city to Wuhan, is only 20 minutes by intercity railway, the second city to follow the city of Wuhan.
在1月25日鄂州官方通报的感染数字里，确诊1例，疑似病例30例。
On January 25, Huizhou official notification of infection figures, confirmed one case, 30 suspected cases.
但刘铭并不太相信这个数字，因为他不确定上述统计是否包括了他认识的一个男孩。
But Mr Liu is not convinced by the figure, because he is not sure if it includes a boy he knows.
曾经和他一起当过伴郎的一位鄂州籍男孩亲口告诉他，自己被确诊了。
A Huizhou boy who used to be the best man with him told him that he had been diagnosed.
这名男孩是华中科技大学的博士，被怀疑是在武汉站感染的，CT和血检有问题后就确诊了。
The boy, a PhD student at Huazhong University of Science and Technology, was diagnosed with a suspected infection at Wuhan Station after CT and blood tests showed problems.
对此，《财经》记者未能联系到相关机构确认上述信息。
In response, Caijing reporter could not contact the relevant agencies to confirm the above information.
据刘铭介绍，那位男孩的确诊时间比官方通报病例时间要早，他的妈妈也疑似被感染了，两人分院治疗。
The boy was diagnosed earlier than the official case and his mother was suspected of having contracted the disease, Liu said.
“没人会拿身边人造谣。
"No one is going to tell rumors.
再说鄂州市区离武汉就50公里，人口流动巨大。
Besides, Huzhou City is 50 kilometers away from Wuhan and has a huge population flow.
”他说。
'he said.
在此之前，鄂州这座城市的不少人并不那么紧张。
Before that, many people in the city of Huizhou were not so nervous.
在上海工作的一位鄂州人告诉《财经》记者，他1月16日从上海返回鄂州时，还在汉口站换乘了——这里离冠性肺炎爆发的海鲜市场仅几百米之隔。
A Huizhou man who works in Shanghai told Caijing that when he returned to Huizhou from Shanghai on January 16, he changed his seat at Hankou Station, just a few hundred meters from the seafood market where crowning pneumonia erupted.
当时关于肺炎的宣传是“可防可控”，大家没太多担心，车站和火车上没有什么防护措施。
Pneumonia was advertised as "preventable and controllable." There was not much to worry about. There was no protection at the station or on the train.
1月20日，刘铭从武汉回到鄂州，还和初中同学聚了餐，“当时大家并没有太关注肺炎的事。
On January 20, Liu Ming returned to Huizhou from Wuhan and had a dinner with his junior high school classmates. "People didn't pay much attention to pneumonia at that time.
”他说。
'he said.
但周围人的遭遇、新闻里翻升的感染数字、社交媒体层出不穷的爆料，终于让他意识到形势已经急转直下。
But the stories of the people around him, the numbers of infections in the news, the explosion of social media, finally convinced him that the situation had turned sour.
1月23日，鄂州和武汉一起“封城”。
On January 23, Huizhou and Wuhan jointly "closed the city."
早在“封城”之前的1月21日，当地很多药店就买不到口罩了。
Many local pharmacies were unable to buy face masks on January 21, long before the city was closed.
就算今年哪里也去不了，一些年纪大的人还是会“不带口罩也要拜年”，他看到家附近的驾照训练场学员还在一起练车。
Even though he won't be able to go anywhere this year, some older people will still "pay New Year's Eve without a mask," he says.
1月24日除夕夜，他们家里自“封城”后第一次被插上了一张捐赠倡议书。
On Jan. 24, New Year's Eve, the family was slapped with a donation proposal for the first time since the city was closed.
可是他辗转反侧到凌晨三点左右，疯狂刷医护人员的消息，“他们在为我们拼命，但是却连自己的生命都保障不了，我真的是很‘丧’。
But he tossed around until about three in the morning, frantically brushing the news of the paramedics, "They are fighting for us, but even their own lives can not be guaranteed, I am really very 'mourning'.
”鄂州，返乡在京工作者：“我怕这辈子再也见不到我的猫了”薛宁的两只猫2020年春节是薛宁度过的最难受的春节，他无心看春晚，不敢吃活禽，以往年夜饭一定会喝的鸡汤家里也不喝了，改吃超市买的冻牛肉，薛宁妹妹用牛肉做出了三道菜——卤牛肉、卤牛肉火锅和凉拌牛肉。
Xue Ning's two cats will never see my cat again in the future. "Xue Ning's two cats spent the Spring Festival 2020 as the worst Spring Festival for Xue Ning. He was too busy watching the Spring Festival gala to eat live poultry.
他原计划1月25日飞回北京工作，但现在薛宁所在的鄂州封城，一时回不去。
He had planned to fly back to work in Beijing on January 25, but now Xue Ning's Huizhou city is blocked from returning.
薛宁看到网上有很多键盘侠说武汉人是“丧尸”，“我有个宠物交流群，群友说自己淘宝买的食物，路程中经过了武汉，问大家要不要扔， 那一刻我真的很难受。
Xue Ning saw many keyboard people on the Internet saying that Wuhan people are "dead," "I have a pet exchange group, friends said their Taobao food, passed Wuhan, asked you to throw, that moment I really feel bad.
”薛宁说，他在北京家里有好几只猫，猫是目前小薛最放心不下的，“晚上我一边哭一边打开手机监控看猫，忍不住发了一条微博，说我怕这辈子再也见不到我的猫了。
Xue said he had several cats at his home in Beijing, and the cat was the biggest worry for young Xue. "At night, while crying, I turned on my cell phone and watched the cat, and I couldn't help posting a microblog saying that I feared I would never see my cat again.
后来删了，怕影响别人。
Later deleted, afraid to affect others.
”“现在猫成了我回北京的希望，猫也让我更加坚定，如果事情过了全家安全无恙，我就自考去学医。
"" Now the cat is my hope for going back to Beijing, and the cat has made me more determined.
”薛宁对《财经》杂志记者说。
"Xue told Caijing magazine.
6孝感，相信政府的主任医生：“只要政府重视。
6 Filial piety, trust the government's chief doctor: "As long as the government takes seriously.
”孝感中心医院的护士们位于湖北省东北部的孝感市是湖北省第二严重的疫区，也是离武汉最近的城市之一。
Filial piety central hospital nurses in Xiaogan City in northeast Hubei Province are the second worst-affected area in Hubei province and one of the closest cities to Wuhan.
截止1月25日，孝感确诊病例26例。
As of January 25, 26 cases of filial piety were diagnosed.
一位孝感市中心医院的医护人员告诉《财经》记者，仅孝感市中心医院目前已确诊20例，还有大量疑似病人，现在传染楼三层病房已全部住满。
A hospital worker at Xiaogan City Central Hospital told Caijing that only 20 cases have been confirmed and a large number of suspected patients have been diagnosed.
上述医护人员说，虽然孝感市是湖北的第二大重灾区，但她所感知到的重视程度还是不够的。
Although Xiaogan City is the second worst-hit area in Hubei province, the level of attention she is aware of isn't enough, the medical staff said.
“医院本应在武汉疫情发展第一阶段就开始做准备，而现实情况是——在武汉封城之后，孝感各医院才开始重视。
"The hospital was supposed to start preparing for the first stage of the epidemic in Wuhan, but the reality is that after the closure of Wuhan, hospitals began to pay attention to filial piety.
”在没有统一调度的情况下，忙乱的医疗系统已经难以跟进慌张的病人。
In the absence of uniform scheduling, a jumbled health-care system has struggled to keep up with flustered patients.
一位孝感汉川的医护人员表示，在20号以后几位病人从武汉偷偷跑了回来，他们是汉川本地人，在武汉被告知需要留院观察后，他们在没有告知医生的情况下离开了武汉。
After the 20th, several patients sneaked back from Wuhan, a native of Hanchuan province who left Wuhan without telling doctors after being told they needed to stay in the hospital, said a hospital staff member who felt filial.
1月23日下午，湖北省卫生健康委员会在官网公布了“湖北省新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎医疗救治和发热门诊定点医疗机构名单”，其中孝感有定点医疗机构有31家。
On the afternoon of January 23, the Hubei Provincial Health Committee announced on the official website the list of designated medical institutions for medical treatment and fever clinics for new coronavirus infection in Hubei Province, of which 31 are designated medical institutions.
但在孝感当地，医疗物资也非常稀缺。
But where filial piety is concerned, medical supplies are scarce.
应城人民医院的刘主任接受《财经》采访时称，物资只能撑1-2天。
Liu, director of Yingcheng People's Hospital, told Caijing that materials can only last one to two days.
应城人民医院物资管理人员则称，政府在帮忙调度物资，但是医院太多了，每个医院得到的物资只有一点点。
Officials at Yingcheng People's Hospital said the government was helping dispatch supplies, but there were too many hospitals and only a few supplies for each hospital.
上述护士说，前两天护士长问，有没有人愿意去感染病房支援，她本来有些犹豫。
The nurse said she was hesitant to ask the head nurse the other day if anyone wanted to infect the ward.
在一线医护人员看来，这次冠状病毒感染呈现几大特征——患者症状不典型、没有针对药治疗、检测方式的确定性不高。
In front-line medical personnel, this coronavirus infection presents several characteristics - the patient's symptoms are atypical, there is no drug treatment, the determination of the test method is not high.
“我们医院基本每个疑似患者都要用检测盒检测两三次，才能有一个基本确定的答案。
"Every suspected patient in our hospital has to be tested two or three times with a test box to get a basic definitive answer.
”但一位党员同志非常积极，立刻响应。
But a Party member was very active and immediately responded.
昨天这名党员已经上前线帮忙了。
The party member went to the front yesterday to help.
“她有家有口都不怕，我单身怕啥。
"She's not afraid of having a family. I'm single.
”她说，下一批，也就是一星期后，她也要上前线了。
The next batch, a week later, she said, would be on the front line, too.
孝感市中心医院呼吸内科主任温医生行医30余年，今年快60岁了，孩子不在身边，家里只有他和太太。
Xiaogan City Central Hospital Respiratory Director Dr. Wen more than 30 years, this year will soon be 60 years old, the children are not around, only his wife and he.
他说，只要政府重视起来，所有病魔都终将被战胜。
'If the government values it, all the diseases will be overcome, 'he said.
《财经》记者问，“当看到那些濒临崩溃的年轻护士、医生，你会如何安慰他们？”他说，“那是因为他们还没经历过什么。
"How do you comfort young nurses and doctors who are on the verge of collapse?" he said. "That's because they haven't experienced anything yet.
”7恩施，医生家庭的女儿：“敏感问题要和医院、和官方站在一起”恩施乡下一户普通人家的对联恩施是土家族苗族自治州，也是湖北封城地区里唯二的直辖市，地处武陵山区、农村很多。
"Enshi, daughter of the doctor's family:" Sensitive issues should stand with the hospital and the authorities. "Enshi, an ordinary family in Enshi, is the Miao autonomous prefecture of the Tujia ethnic group and the only municipality directly under the central government in Hubei Fengcheng district, located in Wulingshan district and many rural areas.
疫情发生后，恩施出了两个规定：一，严厉禁止农历正月十五（2月8日）之前的任何红白喜事；二，要求1月8日从武汉回来的人都要登记。
Following the outbreak, Enshi imposed two regulations: first, a strict ban on any red-and-white festivities before the fifteenth day of the first month of the lunar calendar (February 8); and, second, requiring anyone returning from Wuhan on January 8 to register.
在回老家过年的路上，张笑看见有警察拦车牌鄂A的车，那时是封城前几日，已经有一大批武汉的务工人员和大学生返回恩施。
On the way back to his hometown for the Spring Festival, Zhang smiled to see the police stop the car with the license plate E-E. A few days before the city was closed, a large number of Wuhan workers and university students had returned to Enshi.
“我觉得防护措施来的有点晚。
"I think the protective measures came a little late.
”张笑对《财经》记者说。
"Zhang told Caijing.
张笑的母亲是医生，本来已经休假在家，后被医院紧急召回。
Zhang's mother, a doctor, was on leave and was recalled by the hospital.
但她戴的口罩，都是向囤了货的亲戚借的，而不是单位发的——她妈妈是医院后勤保障人员，每天在医院里奔波协调物资，仅有的口罩都供给了一线。
But the masks she wore were borrowed from relatives who had hoarded the goods, not from the house--her mother, a hospital logistics officer, travels the hospital every day to coordinate supplies and supplies, and her only mask supplies the front line.
张笑说，母亲告诉她，省里下拨了专项资金120万，县里下拨了1000万，现在缺的不是钱，缺的就是物资和专业的人。
Zhang said she was told by her mother that the province had earmarked 1.2 million funds and the county had allocated 10 million. What was lacking was not money, but material and professional people.
张笑的母亲每天晚上十一点半回家，近期吃得最好的一顿就是年夜饭——从家里带了点菜到单位热着吃，其他时间都在吃方便面。
Zhang's mother comes home at half past eleven every night, and one of the best meals she has had these days is New Year's Eve - from taking a la carte from home to eating it hot at work and eating instant noodles at other times.
张笑希望外界了解恩施医院物资紧缺的情况。
Zhang hoped that the outside world to understand the shortage of supplies Enshi Hospital.
妈妈除夕还在为乡村医院协调物资，被告知一个村只能发6个口罩，还不够前线医生用。
Mother's Eve was coordinating supplies for the country hospital and was told that only six masks could be distributed in one village, not enough for front-line doctors.
但张笑无法说服亲人站出来说话：“他们开会有强调，敏感问题要和医院、和官方站在一起。
But Zhang was unable to persuade relatives to come forward: "They had a meeting to stress that sensitive issues have to stand with the hospital and the authorities.
”8仙桃，带母亲看病的女儿:“科室主任也生病了”空无一车、一人的仙桃街道1月24日早上，杜梅的母亲半夜发高烧，同时一直在腹泻。
Fairy Peaches, Mother's Daughter: "Desk directors are sick, too." On the morning of January 24, Doumei's mother had a high fever in the middle of the night and was suffering from diarrhea.
次日一早，杜梅带母亲前往仙桃市人民医院做检查。
The next morning, Dumei took her mother to Xiantao People's Hospital for an examination.
目前，仙桃市除人民医院外，其余医院均不接收发热病人。
At present, Xiantao City except the People's Hospital, the other hospitals do not accept febrile patients.
有发热症状的病人必须先到人民医院做肺部CT和血检，在判定为疑似病例后，才有资格做试剂盒检测。
Patients with fever symptoms must first go to the People's Hospital for a pulmonary CT and blood test. Only after a suspected case is determined can they qualify for a kit test.
杜梅到人民医院后发现整个发热门诊已经跟其他门诊独立开来了，是另外单独一栋楼，发热门诊里面也是人满为患。
When Dumei arrived at the People's Hospital, he found that the entire fever clinic had become separate from other clinics, a separate building, and that the fever clinic was also overcrowded.
医生说老人是由细菌感染引起的炎症反应，要打几天消炎针再去做血检。
Doctors say the elderly is caused by bacterial infection inflammation, to play a few days anti-inflammatory needle to do a blood test.
现在仙桃市人民医院不开药、不输液，她们必须换到另一个小医院去治疗。
Now Xiantao People's Hospital does not prescribe drugs, do not infusion, they must be transferred to another small hospital for treatment.
看病时，杜梅问医生，现在医院人多不多。
When seeing the doctor, Doumei asked the doctor that there were not many people in hospital.
医生回答，疑似病例的人已经住满了。
The doctor replied that the suspected case was full.
一位该医院的医护人员家属小李告诉《财经》记者：“仙桃医院的样本都是送到湖北省疾控中心去确诊，在缺少试剂盒的情况下，目前只能通过照CT基本判断是否为高度疑似病例。
"Samples from Xiantao Hospital are sent to the CDC in Hubei Province to be confirmed, and in the absence of a kit, it can only be determined by CT," Xiao Li, a family member of the hospital, told Caijing
”这意味着，尽管目前仙桃市对外公布的确诊人数为10人（截至1月25日19:30），但由于疑似病例没有办法确诊，实际情况可能比公布得要糟糕。
This means that although the number of confirmed cases reported so far in Xiantao is 10 (as of January 25 at 19: 30), the actual situation may be worse than the announcement because there is no way to confirm the suspected cases.
在1月24日9时，湖北省卫健委发布的情况显示，仙桃市首次发现两例，但更多未经证实的消息在当地人的微信群里传播。
At 9: 00 a.m. on January 24, two cases were first reported in Xiantao city, but more unconfirmed information spread through the local population's microphone network.
多数《财经》记者联系到的仙桃医护人员都不愿意接受采访，他们表示“领导嘱咐了不能外传。
Most of the peach doctors and nurses contacted by Caijing were reluctant to be interviewed, saying "the leader told them not to spread the word.
”1月25日，除夕当天，仙桃人民医院发布紧急通知称，某主任涉及的科室即日起暂时关闭，停止应诊，该科室的所有医护人员在科室内留守观察14天。
On January 25, the day of the Lunar New Year's Eve, the Peach People's Hospital issued an emergency notice saying that a department headed by a director had been temporarily closed for 14 days.
上述某科室主任被认为可能是高度疑似病例，目前自行隔离在家。
The director of one of the above-mentioned sections is believed to be a highly suspicious case and is currently isolated at home.
仙桃，除夕夜逃离的一家人：“成功了！”1月24日除夕夜，王垚垚一家的年夜饭有蒸菜、鱼肉和青菜，但他们都没有胃口，弟弟一家正在和湖北仙桃市高速封路的最后期限争分夺秒，全家都在等弟弟出城成功的电话。
Fairy peach, the family that fled on New Year's Eve: "Success!" January 24, the Chinese wang Laojue Zang eat steamed vegetables, fish and vegetables, but they have no appetite, brothers and Xiantao Road closure deadline in Hubei Province, the family is waiting for a successful brother out of the city.
仙桃市高速封路的消息在除夕下午3点开始发酵，“6点多听到消息，弟弟一家就开始打包行李了。
The news of the highway closure began fermenting at 3 pm on New Year's Eve. "When I heard more about it at 6 o'clock, my brothers and I began packing.
弟弟今年高三，全家都在广州生活，每年回仙桃老家过年。
My younger brother is in the third year of high school. The whole family lives in Guangzhou.
”到了除夕夜晚上8点多，仙桃市官方正式发布通知，1月24日24点高速正式封路，“弟弟一家看到通知立刻就出发了。
On New Year's Eve, more than 8: 00 pm, Xiantao official notice, January 24, 24 high-speed official closure, "my brother and family saw the notice immediately set out.
”但弟弟出城就遇到了堵车，从晚上8点堵到了晚上10点，试图逃离仙桃的人非常多。
But my brother got stuck in a traffic jam outside the city from 8pm to 10pm and there were a lot of people trying to escape from the peach.
在高速封路前不到一小时，弟弟终于打来电话说，“成功了。
Less than an hour before the highway closed, my brother finally called and said, "It worked.
“仙桃是湖北人口流动性最强的城市之一，当地没有大学，人均工资可能不到3000，很多人在外求学和工作。
"Xiantao is one of the most mobile cities in Hubei Province, where there are no universities, wages per capita may be less than 3,000 and many people study and work outside the city.
在仙桃，如果要坐火车，要从天门南站坐动车去武汉站，然后再转火车。
In Xiantao, if you want to take a train, from Tianmen South Station to take the train to Wuhan station, and then transfer train.
仙桃作为疫区，本应更有资源的优势。
As an epidemic area, peach should have the advantage of more resources.
如果在淘宝上搜索“口罩”，并将发货地选为仙桃，会出现大量商品。
If you search for "masks" on Taobao and select the place of shipment as a peach, there will be a large number of commodities.
作为“中国非织造布工业名城”， 仙桃盛产可用来制作一次性口罩、鞋套等防护用品的非织造布（又称无纺布），曾在抗击非典、甲流等传染病中发挥过作用。
As a famous non-woven industrial city in China, peach produces non-woven cloth (also known as non-woven cloth), which can be used to make disposable masks, shoes and other protective articles, and has played a role in fighting SARS, swine flu and other infectious diseases.
但现在，口罩等物资成为稀缺品。
But now, supplies such as masks are scarce.
1月23日武汉和仙桃相继封城后，药店口罩开始限购，每人只能采购两只口罩。
After the closure of Wuhan and Xiantao on January 23, pharmacies began to restrict the purchase of face masks, each can only purchase two masks.
让王垚垚气愤的是，这两天她拆开口罩（和去年品牌一样），发现去年的口罩有三层，现在的口罩只有两层了。
To his chagrin, Wang took off her mask two days ago (like last year's brand) and found that last year's mask had three layers and now has only two.
“封城”后，他上街买东西，看到收银员戴着游泳眼镜，一边扫条形码，一边说：“我这冒好大的风险来上班哦！”现在，王垚垚最大的希望就是看到事情变好，让一切灾难快点消失。
After Sealing the City, he went shopping and saw the cashier in swimming glasses, sweeping the bar code and saying, "I'm taking a big risk to get to work!" Now Wang's biggest hope is to see things get better and make things go away faster.
1月24日除夕时他发了一条朋友圈：“窗外每隔30分钟就有一辆宣讲疫情的广播车驶过，每天醒来看到的是不断攀升的确诊病例数，电视里是各地浓浓‘中国年’，真魔幻。
On January 24, New Year's Eve, he sent out a circle of friends: "Outside the window every 30 minutes a radio car goes by announcing the epidemic. Every day, he wakes up and sees the number of confirmed cases rising.
”9十堰，送君出征的内科医生：“我不怕死，但我怕分离。
9 Shiyan, physician during the expedition: "I am not afraid of death, but I am afraid of separation.
”1月24日大年三十晚上，十堰市民周瑶正在做年夜饭，十堰宣布“封城”。
January 24 on the thirtieth night, Shiyan City Min Zhou Yao is doing New Year's Eve dinner, 10 Weir announced "closure.
几乎是一瞬间的反应，她直接关了火，匆忙收拾行李，和家人一起离开了十堰。
Almost instantaneously, she turned off the fire, hastily packed her bags, and left Shiyan with her family.
十堰的“封城”不难理解。
Shiyan "closure" is not difficult to understand.
十堰是二汽建址地，与武汉商业往来密切。
Shiyan is the site of Erqi and Wuhan commercial exchanges close.
每年大量二汽人员和家属回十堰过年，人员流动很大，这也让十堰在此次疫情中承担了许多压力。
Every year a large number of FAW personnel and family back to Shiyan, the movement of personnel, which also let Shiyan bear a lot of pressure in this outbreak.
另一位市民提前预感到了十堰要“封城”，她计划把机票改签到1月26日或27日，但没有票。
Another citizen had a presentiment that Shiyan would be "closed" and planned to change her ticket to January 26 or 27, but did not have tickets.
她看到这座城市面对疫情反应还不够敏锐。
She saw that the city was not sharp enough to respond to the epidemic.
从1月21日到24日，农贸市场和商超里戴口罩的人寥寥无几，只有1月23日当天多一点，十堰当地媒体有关预防和宣传不多，“还是重视不足。
From January 21 to 24, farmers and ultra-few people wearing masks, only a little more than January 23, Shiyan local media on prevention and publicity, "or not enough attention.
”上述人士说，十堰远离关注焦点，但湖北不是只有武汉。
But Wuhan is not the only city in Hubei province, said the person.
湖北是省会独大最典型的省份，各种资源相对集中在武汉，周边城市容易被忽视。
Hubei is the capital of the most typical province, a variety of resources are relatively concentrated in Wuhan, peripheral cities easy to ignore.
留在北京的十堰人李女士得知，远在郑州的小区都在消毒，而问及十堰的朋友，小区是没有定期消毒的，这让她更加担心家人的安全。
Ms. Li, who stayed in Beijing, was told that the area in Zhengzhou was disinfected, and asked about friends in Shiyan, the community is not regularly disinfected, which makes her more worried about the safety of her family.
李女士做过多年记者，她对一切信息都很敏感。
Ms. Li has been a journalist for many years. She is very sensitive to all kinds of information.
1月24日除夕那天，十堰市政府通报了1例冠性肺炎的确诊病例，以及21例疑似病例。
On New Year's Eve on January 24, Shiyan City government reported a confirmed case of coronary pneumonia, as well as 21 suspected cases.
这一天，十堰太和医院呼吸内科主任王梅芳没有等来红包，同为医生的丈夫告诉她，1月25日上完门诊后，他就要去定点医院一线支援了，“你要照顾好自己和孩子。
On this day, Shiyan Taihe Hospital Respiratory Director Wang Mei-fang did not wait for the red envelopes, the doctor's husband told her that after attending the clinic on January 25, he would go to the hospital first-line support, "you have to take care of yourself and the children.
”王梅芳对记者说，丈夫说得太突然，她没有准备好，忍不住哭了起来。
"Wang Mei-fang told reporters that her husband had spoken so suddenly that she was not ready and could not help crying.
李女士在微信群里说起担心，群里一位朋友很淡然地说，“怕什么，没什么可怕的。
"There's nothing to be afraid of," said one of the group's friends, coolly, "about what to fear.
”她说，“我不怕死，但我怕分离。
"I am not afraid of death, but I am afraid of separation.
”（除十堰王梅芳医生和孝感呼吸内科温医生外，其余人名均为化名。
"(In addition to Shiyan Wang Mei-fang and filial piety breathing physician Wen, the other names are aliases.
）后记：面对突如其来的疫情和应急举措，武汉周边这些城市的情况大致相似：面临的问题相似，人们的心态相似。
) Postscript: Faced with the sudden outbreak of the epidemic and emergency measures, the situation around Wuhan, these cities are more or less the same: faced with similar problems, people have similar mentality.
许多人似乎是突然警醒，一夜间转变了对疫情的态度，虽然“封城”了，但大家其实都没有准备好，市民们面对着诊断难和资源缺乏等问题，医护人员的资源更是极其匮乏。
Many people seem to be suddenly alerted to a shift in attitude toward the epidemic overnight, with "closed" but virtually unprepared, citizens facing problems of diagnosis and lack of resources, and scarce resources for health-care workers.
但他们面临的疫情考验或许才刚刚开始。
But the ordeal they face may be just beginning.
这是《湖北疫区16城实录》上篇，我们会在明天刊出下篇，感谢关注。
This is the record of 16 cities in Hubei epidemic area. We will publish the next one tomorrow, thank you for your attention.
“武汉肺炎”疫情系列报道▷ 点击图片查看责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Wuhan Pneumonia (Wuhan Pneumonia) series of reports Please click on picture to see Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article was originally written for Caijing magazine and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
不止有武汉：湖北疫区16城实录 （上篇）。
There is more than Wuhan: Hubei epidemic area 16 cities recorded (Part I).
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "不止有武汉：湖北疫区16城实录 （上篇）";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "各方资源和关注的焦点是武汉，但在周边16座也因疫情而被封闭的城市里，他们正在经历着什么";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
