武汉疫情第一道防线——社区卫生服务中心是怎样失守的？。
Wuhan epidemic of the first line of defense - community health service center is how to lose?
健闻吴靖。
Hear Wu Jing.
八点健闻                      。
Eight good news.
八点健闻。
Eight good news.
看得懂的健康专业新闻。
Understandable health professional news.
疫情初起时，大量发热病人、不明原因肺炎病人，挤满了武汉各大医院的门诊和住院部，当时社区卫生服务中心却似乎与紧张气氛绝缘——直到封城之后，才加入疫情防控阵营。
In the early days of the epidemic, when a flood of febrile patients and patients with unexplained pneumonia filled out the outpatient and inpatient departments of Wuhan's major hospitals, community health-care centers seemed to be insulated from tensions - until the city was shut down before joining the anti-epidemic camp.
在武汉疫情中，本该成为第一道防线、承担传染病防控功能的社区卫生服务中心，为何缺席并失守？武汉市江汉区某社区卫生中心的院长方涵，在从医20多年的职业生涯中，从没见过这么大的阵仗。
In Wuhan, the community health service center, which was supposed to be the first line of defense and assume the function of infectious disease prevention and control, is absent and has lost its guard? Fang Han, director of a community health center in Wuhan, has never seen such a battle in his more than 20-year career as a doctor.
当他意识到“一个社区的发热病人比2003年非典时期整个武汉市的病人都多”时，已到了2020年1月末。
By the end of January 2020, when he realized that "a community of febrile patients had more patients than the entire city of Wuhan during the SARS period in 2003."
早在2019年12月底到2020年1月中旬，越来越多的发热病人、不明原因肺炎病人，已经将武汉各大医院的门诊、住院部挤满，但当时社区卫生服务中心的人却未感觉有何异样。
As early as the end of December 2019 and the middle of January 2020, an increasing number of patients with fever and unexplained pneumonia had crowded out the outpatient and inpatient departments of Wuhan's major hospitals.
近几年，国家接连推动分级诊疗、家庭医生签约和医共体等政策，力图将病人下沉到社区，但在武汉收效甚微。
In recent years, the state has successively promoted graded medical treatment, family doctor contracting and medical community policies aimed at sinking patients into the community, but with little success in Wuhan.
武汉的老百姓习惯了发热还是到大医院，很少会直接去社区卫生服务中心。
Wuhan common people accustomed to fever or to the big hospital, few will go directly to the community health service center.
2020年初，方涵开始感到有一些异样。
In early 2020, Fang began to feel something different.
1月初，来自国家卫健委和湖北省的“大领导”，忽然来到他所在的社区卫生服务中心，这是他“这一辈子可能见过的最高级别的官员”。
In early January, "big leaders" from the National Fitness Commission and Hubei Province suddenly arrived at his community health service center, "the highest-ranking official he has ever seen in his life."
但随后到1月底，近一个月的时间，又是一个平静期。
But by the end of January, almost a month later, there had been another lull.
在最高决策层面，社区卫生服务中心一直缺席。
At the highest decision-making level, community health service centres have been absent.
早在1月初，国家卫健委陆续派员抵达武汉。
As early as the beginning of January, the National Health Commission sent personnel to Wuhan.
有知情人士透露，国家卫健委最初参与武汉不明原因肺炎的主要是疾控局、应急办和医政医管局这几个部门，负责基层公共卫生服务的基层司一直未参与。
According to people familiar with the matter, the primary departments involved in the case of pneumonia in Wuhan were the Disease Control Bureau, the Emergency Office and the Hospital Authority, while the grass-roots department in charge of public health services at the grassroots level has not been involved.
直到1月26日，武汉封城后三天，国家卫健委基层司才下发《加强基层医疗卫生机构新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控工作的通知》。
It was not until January 26, three days after the city was sealed in Wuhan, that the State Health Council issued the Notice on Strengthening the Prevention and Control of Pneumonia Infected by the New Coronavirus Infection in Primary Health Care Institutions.
1月23日，武汉封城。
Wuhan Sealed on January 23.
新冠肺炎疫情已不可控，被感染的人数越来越多，率先被冲垮的是各大医院。
The outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia has become uncontrollable, the number of people infected is increasing, the first major hospitals were washed out.
封城后，社区卫生服务中心才加入疫情防控阵营，社区将发热病人先送往社区卫生服务中心，由中心进行分检，开分诊单，将符合条件的病人送往定点医院的发热门诊。
After the closure of the city, the CHSCs joined the Epidemic Prevention and Control Campaign. The community first sent the febrile patients to the Community Health Service Centres (CHSCs), where they divided the checklists and sent the eligible patients to the fever clinics of the designated hospitals.
但社区卫生服务中心并没有加入上门排查、指挥居民防控的任务，只是派人支援定点医院。
But the community health service center did not join the door-to-door screening, command the task of residents control, just send people to support designated hospitals.
更荒诞的是，从封城到集中隔离这一周多的时间里，一些社区卫生服务中心做的最多的工作，是为一些病逝家中的居民进行消毒和抬遗体。
More absurdly, in the more than a week between closure and centralization, some community health services have done the most to disinfect and lift the remains of some of the residents who died.
2月初，集中隔离政策开始后，管理隔离点又成了他们的新任务。
At the beginning of February, when the policy of concentrated isolation began, the management of the quarantining points became their new task.
在武汉疫情中，本该成为第一道防线、承担传染病防控功能的社区卫生服务中心，为何缺席并失守？以下是八点健闻对方涵的访谈记录。
Wuhan epidemic, should become the first line of defense, assume the function of infectious disease prevention and control community health service center, why is absent and lost?
1月3日国家卫健委官员来视察时没戴口罩八点健闻：你们何时开始意识到武汉疫情的？武汉市一些医院12月下旬、1月上旬就开始感觉不对了，你们那时候感觉到了吗？方涵：那段时间有一点感觉，但感觉不明显。
When did you first become aware of the epidemic in Wuhan Some hospitals in Wuhan began to feel wrong in late December and early January Do you feel that at that time there was a little sensation, but it didn't feel obvious.
12月31日，武汉市卫健委医政医管局就下发了内部文件，要求排查不明肺炎，当时网上闹得沸沸扬扬，我们也有点疑惑。
On December 31, Wuhan Health and Wellness Commission Hospital Authority issued internal documents, the request to clear unknown pneumonia, at that time the Internet uproar, we also have some doubts.
当时市卫健委的传播口径是可防可控，人不传人。
At that time, the spread of the health committee is preventable, people do not transmit.
1月3日，国家卫健委相关负责人就来到我们这里，当时的陪同人员有武汉市卫健委主任，还有江汉区区长。
January 3, the relevant national health committee came to us, then accompanied by the director of Wuhan city health committee, and the district governor of JiangHan.
当时大家都没戴口罩，他们观看了预检分诊台和发热诊室，问了我们防控不明肺炎的情况。
When everyone was wearing no masks, they looked at the preview counter and the hot room and asked us about the status of prevention and control of unknown pneumonia.
只有在发热诊室里的医生戴了口罩，这个医生后来（1月23日）被我派去支援武汉红十字会医院，但没过几天就发现他已经被感染了。
Only the doctor in the fever room wore a mask, and the doctor was later sent to support the Wuhan Red Cross hospital on January 23, but within a few days he was found to be infected.
1月6日，时任湖北省委书记蒋超良又过来这里视察，他戴着口罩。
On January 6, then-secretary of Hubei Provincial Party Committee Jiang Xiuliang visited here again. He was wearing a mask.
也就在那几天，要求我们医护人员也戴口罩。
On those very days, we were asked to wear masks as well.
随同的人还有武汉市委书记、区委书记和武汉市卫健委的人。
Along with Wuhan city party secretary, district party secretary and Wuhan city health committee people.
当时领导传达的意思是“可防可控”，“要做好医务人员防控，不要出现医务人员感染”。
At that time, the leader's message is "preventable controllable," "to do a good job of medical control, not the emergence of medical staff infection."
八点健闻：领导视察结束后你们的工作有什么变化吗？方涵：有相当一段时间我们的工作没什么变化，一直到大年二十九（1月23日）都是正常的接诊。
How has your work changed since the completion of the inspection? Fang: For quite a while, our work remained the same.
但从21日开始，我们的防控级别提升了，筛选社区发热病人到定点医院发热门诊的任务也下发了。
But from the 21st, our level of prevention and control has been raised, screening community febrile patients to the designated hospital heating clinic tasks have also been issued.
大年三十（1月24日）开始安排门诊和住院值班，一般的科室就不开门了。
New Year's 30 (January 24) began to arrange outpatient and inpatient duty, the general departments will not open.
八点健闻：什么时候明显感觉到情况严重了？方涵：我意识到严重，是在封城前后，那时我们有医务人员感染了。
When did you notice the seriousness of the situation? Fang Han: I realized it was serious. It was around the time of the siege when medical staff got infected.
过年前几天，我紧急给比较熟悉的医药公司的业务员打电话，向他进了一些口罩，又让他帮我找了一批防护服， 150元一件，当时觉得贵，现在来看，这个价格已经很便宜了。
A few days before the New Year, I called the salesman in a familiar pharmaceutical company, put some masks in his mouth, and asked him to help me find a batch of protective clothing, 150 yuan a piece.
我定了200件，他只能搞到这么多件。
I ordered 200 of them. He could only get so many.
还进了两箱、一共6000只的一次性医用口罩。
Two boxes of disposable medical masks, totalling 6,000, were also brought in.
N95口罩完全没货了。
N95 masks are completely out of stock.
大年初一（1月25日）晚上，我们有几个医务人员感染。
On the night of New Year's Day (January 25), several of our medical staff became infected.
有一个在我们的住院部自己隔离了，还有一个每天到中心来打针，另外一个在酒店隔离，他们之间低落的情绪互相感染。
One of them was isolated in our inpatient department, another came to the center every day to get an injection, and the other was quarantined in a hotel where their low spirits infected each other.
大年初一晚上，我给护士长发了微信，“局面不受控制了”。
On New Year's Eve, I sent a message to the head nurse. "The situation is out of control."
我们帮生病的员工联系医院，协和同济和红十字会医院都回复无能为力。
We helped sick employees contact the hospital, Concorde Tongji and Red Cross hospitals were unable to respond.
那段时间，我每天去市卫健委开会时，都要经过灯火辉煌的一条大街，那么漂亮的街道，没有车也没有人。
At that time, I went to the city health committee every day when the meeting, have to go through the brilliant lights of a street, so beautiful, no car and no one.
以往逢年过节，居民是不愿意来医院看病的。
In the past, residents were reluctant to come to the hospital.
在过年的七天时间里，我们安排上班的医务人员比较少。
We had fewer medical staff assigned to work during the seven days of the Chinese New Year.
这次，全科我只安排了一个医生值班，后来计划全部打乱了。
This time, I had only one doctor on duty in the general practice, and all my plans were upset.
1月22日早上，区卫健委通知，每个社区卫生服务中心要派两个医生、一个护士去支援定点医院（当时第一批七家定点医院名单刚确定）。
On the morning of January 22, the district health committee announced that each community health service center would send two doctors and a nurse to support designated hospitals (the first batch of seven designated hospitals had just been identified).
我派去的三个人都是党员，他们都比较爽快地答应了。
All three of the men I sent were Party members, and they agreed more readily.
1月22日下午1点，三个人都跑去武汉市红十字会医院做院感培训，当天写了支援请愿书。
On January 22 at 1: 00 p.m., all three went to Wuhan Red Cross Hospital to do hospital feeling training, the same day wrote a support petition.
几天后，华西医院派人进驻红十字会医院，我们在那里的两个同事就被调到武汉商职医院。
A few days later, Huaxi Hospital sent personnel to the Red Cross Hospital, where two of our colleagues were transferred to Wuhan Commercial Hospital.
另一个同事被感染了，那时他一直是疑似，没有确诊，住不上医院，只能回家单独隔离。
Another colleague was infected when he was suspected, undiagnosed, unable to go to hospital and had to go home in solitary confinement.
八点健闻：当时上级有没有对你们的防控做什么要求？方涵：没有让所有的医护人员上二级防护，当时要求的是一级防护。
Eight Jianmin: What did the superior do to your control at that time? Fang Han: Not all the medical personnel to go to secondary protection, what was required was first-class protection.
防控形势每天在变。
The situation is changing every day.
武汉封城后，我们社区卫生中心的院长每天都去市卫健委开会。
Wuhan after the city, our community health center deans every day to the city health committee to meet.
当时上级不准我们在网上发信息，在工作群里也不允许我们发。
Our superiors did not allow us to send messages on the Internet, nor did they allow us to do so in the work group.
防控相关的内部文件和报表都是纸质的，都不在网络上传电子版的。
Control related internal documents and reports are paper-based, do not upload electronic version of the network.
八点健闻：当时定点医院的情况是怎样的？方涵：1月23日晚，定点收治发热病人的武汉红十字医院刚刚开诊，大约2000多人把医院挤得水泄不通。
Eight Jianmin: What was the situation at the designated hospital? On the night of January 23, Wuhan Red Cross Hospital, where fever cases were treated, opened and about 2,000 people packed the hospital.
外面搭着帐篷，江汉区的发热病人很多都被引导到那里去了。
Tents were set up outside, and many of the feverish patients in the Jianghan district were directed there.
哪怕是普通的发热，居民都要去医院搞搞清楚是不是新冠病毒。
Even if the fever is common, residents have to go to the hospital to find out whether the new crown virus.
平时，这家医院的接诊能力也就是几百人，这就大大超出医院的运转能力。
Normally, the hospital has a capacity of a few hundred, which is far beyond its capacity.
医院满走廊都是垃圾没人收，有的人排着队就倒下了。
The hospital was full of rubbish. Some people fell in line.
八点健闻：封城后，你们还做了哪些工作？方涵：封城前，所有人看病都去大医院，大医院人满为患。
Eight Jianmin: What other work did you do after the closure of the city? Fang Han: Before the blockade, all the doctors went to big hospitals.
封城后，上级武汉市区指挥部决定封城之后，由社区卫生服务中心对病人进行分级分类转诊。
After the closure of the city, the higher Wuhan District Command decided to seal the city, the community health service center to classify patients for referral.
我们没有到用户家里去排查，是社区工作人员将排查的发热病人都集中到我们这里来，做血常规、胸片这些基础检查。
We did not go to the user's home screening, is the community workers will be the heat patients gathered here to do blood routine, chest screening these basic tests.
如果是疑似病人的话就开转诊单，疑似病人拿着我们的转诊单由街道派车护送到定点发热门诊，初筛以后符合条件就转到发热门诊再做CT。
In the case of a suspected patient, a referral form is issued and the suspected patient is escorted to a designated fever clinic by car from the street with our referral form. After initial screening, eligible patients are referred to a fever clinic for CT.
这个社区老龄患者比较多，当时我们一天检查八九十个病人。
This community has more elderly patients, when we check 80 or 90 patients a day.
有的症状不明显但是家里有确诊病人的，我们也会开转诊单派过去。
In cases where the symptoms are not obvious but there is a confirmed patient in the home, we will also issue a referral to the individual.
当时要求每个街道卫生院派专人到指定的发热门诊，专门接收这种有社区转诊单的病人，再安排他们在门诊看病。
At that time, each neighbourhood health centre was required to send a person to a designated fever clinic to receive such patients with a community referral form and then arrange for them to visit the clinic on an outpatient basis.
只有定点医院的发热门诊才可以做核酸检测，数量极少。
Nucleic acid testing can only be done in the fever clinic of the designated hospital, which is extremely rare.
八点健闻：发热病人的初筛转诊是你们唯一的工作吗？方涵：我们还负责收殓一些在家里病逝的居民遗体。
Eight points of health news: Fever patient referral is your only job? Fang Han: We are also responsible for collecting the remains of some residents who died at home.
这个工作从大年三十晚上就开始了。
The work has been going on since New Year's Eve.
是我们卫生院的一个男性党员去做的。
It was done by a male member of our clinic.
疫情之前，如果有人在家中去世，是由第三方的机构来消毒、抬运遗体到殡仪馆，这属于收费服务。
Before the outbreak, if someone died at home, it was a fee-paying service for a third party to disinfect and carry the body to the funeral home.
疫情出现之后，第三方机构不愿做了。
After the outbreak, third-party agencies were reluctant to do so.
政府要求社区卫生服务中心必须承担这个工作，我们医务人员24小时待命。
The Government has made it mandatory for community health services centres, and our medical staff are available 24 hours a day.
我们到去世的人家里消毒、包裹遗体并等殡仪馆的车来。
We disinfect the dead, wrap the bodies and wait for the undertaker's car to come.
之前我们从来没有遇到过这种事情，那段时间，最严重的时候，一晚上要去好几趟。
We had never experienced anything like this before, and at that time, at its worst, we made several trips a night.
程序是家属到我们这里来开死亡证，办了死亡证之后我们去消毒，同步联系殡仪馆。
The procedure is that the family came to us to issue a death certificate, after the death certificate we disinfect, synchronous contact funeral parlour.
我们必须要把消毒的整个过程拍出来，留给殡仪馆的人看，否则殡仪馆的人不会抬的。
We must photograph the whole process of disinfection and leave it to the undertaker, or the undertaker will not lift it.
有的家属都躲的远远的，是我们医务人员帮着抬。
Some of the family members are hiding far away, is our medical staff to help carry.
还有的家属连来都不来，只报警通知我们过去，我们去了之后，还要和家属联系。
Some of the family did not even come, only to inform us of the past, we went to contact their families.
还有一些人，是在宾馆或在外面去世的，法医让我们去消毒。
Still others, who died in hotels or outside, were asked to disinfect by forensic doctors.
又让我们去包裹遗体。
Let's go wrap the body.
八点健闻：做这个工作心理压力是不是很大？方涵：那不是一般的人受得了的。
Eight points of health news: do this job psychological pressure is not very? culprit: That is not ordinary people can bear.
有的人去世之后，像睡着了一样，很安详。
Some people die as if they were asleep, quite at peace.
还有一些人，去世的样子很吓人。
There are also people who die in a very scary way.
我们社区医务人员承受的不是一般的压力。
Medical workers in our community are not under ordinary pressure.
八点健闻：社区卫生服务中心有没有参与指导居民的防疫、上门排查等工作？方涵：没有。
Eight points: Does the community health service center participate in guiding the work of vaccination, door-to-door inspection and so on?
2月初集中隔离、应收尽收阶段社区卫生中心接手隔离点2月初，武汉市居家隔离的政策变为集中隔离，密切接触人员、轻症、疑似病人到隔离点。
At the beginning of February, the community health center took over the quarantine point. At the beginning of February, the isolation policy of Wuhan city changed to concentrate isolation, close contact with personnel, light diseases and suspected patients to the isolation point.
部分社区卫生中心的医务人员被抽调去隔离点。
Medical staff from some community health centres were evacuated to isolated sites.
八点健闻：你们多少医务人员抽调过去了？方涵：2月3日晚上10点，上级打电话让我们去隔离点。
Eight minutes later: How many medical personnel did you pull over? Fang Han: On February 3 at 10: 00 pm, the superior called and asked us to go to the quarantine point.
我一个小时之内就把社区卫生服务中心的两名党员叫过来，晚上11点多钟我们就来隔离点了，连夜从中心紧急调配了一些防护用品。
I called in two members of the community health service within an hour, and by 11: 00 p. m. we were at the quarantine point and had some emergency supplies from the center overnight.
2月4日早上两名党员就在隔离点开展工作了。
On the morning of 4 February, two party members were working at the quarantining point.
从隔离点成立开始，我们二十余位医务人员基本都抽调过去了，社区卫生服务中心只留了几个人。
Since the establishment of the isolation point, we have about 20 medical personnel have basically been transferred, community health service centres left only a few people.
封城开始，我们只负责分诊，也没有治疗任务，工作量不是很大，所以工作重心全到隔离点去了。
The closure of the city, we are only responsible for the diagnosis, there is no treatment task, the workload is not very large, so the focus of all to the isolation point.
八点健闻：隔离点是什么情况？方涵：我们在的隔离点有300张床位，比较简陋。
Eight Jianmin: What's the isolation pointFang Han: We have 300 beds in the quarantine area.
没有网络，线路也有问题。
There's no network, and there's a problem with the lines.
病人在生活上和治疗上都有很多需求。
Patients have many needs both in life and in treatment.
一些病人有特殊需求，例如慢性疾病要开药的病人，或者心脏等部位不舒服等，我们需要指挥部来协调完成。
Some patients have special needs, such as chronic diseases to prescribe drugs, or uncomfortable parts of the heart, we need the command to coordinate the completion.
生活上的投诉，主要是马桶堵了、电视坏了、线路有问题等。
The complaint of life, basically is clog of closestool, TV broke down, circuit problem and so on.
八点健闻：医务人员在隔离点主要做什么？方涵：我们每天都要对病人进行医学观察。
Eight minutes of good news: What do the medical staff do in the quarantine? Culm: We observe the patients every day.
每天进去给病人发放体温表。
Give the patient a thermometer every day.
我们尽量不到房间走动，因为首先我们自己的防护用品级别不够，防护服很薄，不是医用防护服。
We tried not to walk around the room because, first of all, our own protective gear was not of sufficient grade, it was very thin and not a medical suit.
现在我们还要承担采样工作，就是核酸检测咽拭的采样工作。
Now we also have to undertake the sampling work, that is, nucleic acid detection swabbing sampling.
前期是上级安排由检测机构来做核酸检测，是大医院的医务人员来采样，然后送到指定的检测机构，把信息反馈回来。
The early stage is arranged by the detection organization to do nucleic acid testing, is a large hospital medical personnel to sample, and then sent to the designated testing institutions, feedback back.
但是在对接过程中，信息出错了。
But during the docking, the information went wrong.
检测机构众多，隔离点也众多，一些信息在比对的时候出错了，检测结果反馈不回来，从2月21日开始，隔离点的人全部由隔离点的医务人员采。
The number of detection agencies and the number of isolation points, some of the information in the matching error, test results can not be returned, starting on 21 February, the isolation points were all by the medical personnel of the isolation points.
我们每天中午两点之前采样完成，然后疾控中心进行收样，第二、三天结果就反馈回来了。
We sampled before 2: 00 noon every day, then the CDC took samples, and the results were reported back in two or three days.
这样节约了时间，也有利于床位的周转。
This saves time and facilitates the turnover of beds.
疫情发生前分级诊疗、公共卫生服务进展艰难八点健闻：之前社区卫生中心在传染病防控方面有做哪些工作呢？方涵：传染病防控我们平时都有培训，每个社区卫生中心基本上都有一个公共卫生科，有一个专人来做传染病管理。
What did community health centers do in the prevention and control of infectious diseases We usually have training, and each community health center basically has a public health section with a specialist in infectious disease management.
在门诊和住院部会发生一些比较常见的传染病案例，平时报的经常是腮腺炎，痢疾，禽流感，手足口病等。
In the outpatient and inpatient department will occur some common infectious diseases, usually reported parotitis, dysentery, avian flu, hand, foot and mouth disease and so on.
我们也有风险预案，但根本没有想到这次的疫情会难以控制。
We had a risk profile, but we didn't expect the outbreak to get out of hand.
八点健闻：这次你们有三名医护人员感染，在院感方面平时做过哪些准备呢？方涵：我们平时就是一级防护，戴口罩。
Eight points Jianmin: This time you have three hospital staff infected, in the hospital sense of what preparations have been made? Culver: We are usually the first level of protection, wearing masks.
大家对院感的意识还是要差一些。
People are still less conscious of the sense of court.
在院感方面的投入受条件的限制，职工不愿意我们在这方面多投入，他觉得你多投了钱在院感上面，但没有防护意识，就觉得这个支出是不必要的。
The investment in the hospital sense is limited by the condition, the staff do not want us to invest more in this area, he felt that you have invested too much money in the hospital, but no sense of protection, it felt that the expenditure was unnecessary.
成本支出包括洗手液、快速消毒凝胶、科室里的感应水龙头，这都涉及到改造，我们都知道有院感的管理，但是没有用在实际应用上。
Expenses include hand sanitizers, quick disinfectant gels, induction faucets in offices, all of which involve retrofitting, and we all know that there is hospital management, but it is not used in practice.
在这次疫情防控期间，我们现在这种院感支出，是以前完全不敢想象的。
During this period of epidemic prevention and control, we now have such hospital spending that was completely unthinkable before.
在平时，这些防护用品不怕没有厂家供应，肯定不存在买不到口罩和防护服的顾虑。
In normal times, these protective equipment is not afraid of no manufacturers supply, certainly do not buy masks and protective clothing concerns.
但是突然遇到这样的状况，整个存储和供应都成了问题。
But all of a sudden, the whole storage and supply becomes a problem.
我们平时的存储可能就仅限于口罩和医用手术帽这些耗材，不可能储备这么大量的防护服。
Our usual storage may be limited to such consumables as masks and medical surgical caps, and it is impossible to store such a large quantity of protective clothing.
八点健闻：平时社区卫生服务中心做什么？方涵：我们大部分精力放在慢性病管理上，但老百姓接受程度不是太高。
Eight Health News: What do community health service centers do in peacetime? Fang Han: Most of our efforts focus on the management of chronic diseases, but the acceptance of the people is not too high.
我们推行家庭医生签约，设计的初衷是好的，但进展很困难。
We have a family doctor contract. It was designed to be good, but it's going to be tough.
主动签约的只有很少一部分人。
Only a small number of people sign up voluntarily.
他们刚从大医院回来，需要后续治疗如上尿管、上胃管的、换药有需求的，就急切地跟你签约。
They have just returned from the major hospital, need follow-up treatment such as ureter, upper stomach tube, change the demand, eager to sign with you.
但是其它人是没有兴趣签约的，一些得了高血压、糖尿病的人，不愿意受社区卫生服务中心的管制。
But others are not interested in signing contracts, and some people with high blood pressure and diabetes are reluctant to be regulated by community health services.
八点健闻：平时居民习惯来社区卫生服务中心就诊吗？方涵：如果全民参保的情况下，来街道卫生院看病，报销比例高于医院时，居民才愿意来。
Eight points of health news: usually residents used to come to the community health service center? Fang Han: If the universal coverage of the case, to the street hospitals, reimbursement rates higher than hospitals, residents will only be willing to come.
但在武汉，门诊用的是个人账户，只有住院才用统筹基金。
But in Wuhan, out-patient use of personal accounts, only hospitalization with a co-ordinated fund.
居民拿着医保卡，只要是医保定点机构都可以就诊。
Residents with health insurance cards, as long as the health-care designated institutions can be visited.
在社区卫生服务中心开药和在三甲门诊开药并没有什么区别。
There is no difference between prescribing in community health services and prescribing in triple-A clinics.
要达到分级诊疗的效果，需要让参保人员选择自己固定就诊的一级、二级、三级医院，把这部分人的基本医疗费用和门诊、统筹按人头先预拨到社区卫生院。
To achieve the effect of graded diagnosis and treatment, it is necessary for the insured to choose their own fixed primary, secondary and tertiary hospitals, and to pre-allocate the basic medical expenses and outpatient services to the community health centres.
如果社区卫生院看不了这个病，要转诊的话，就赚不到这部分钱。
If the community health center can not see the disease, if there is a referral, the money will not be earned.
事实上，武汉这里没有这么做，没有提前划拨到社区卫生院的人头经费。
In fact, Wuhan here did not do so, there is no advance allocation to the community health center headcount.
八点健闻：那你们的收入来源主要是什么？方涵：收入来源都是公共卫生经费拨款。
Eight points of health news: What are your main sources of income? Implication: Public health funding is the source of income.
我们是差额拨款的，就是财政负担一部分。
We are the difference between the appropriation, is part of the financial burden.
工作人员的待遇很差，没有编制八点健闻：武汉的医联体、医共体建设有没有促进分级诊疗？方涵：2006年的时候（是2016年还是2006年？），我们和武汉协和签约过对口支援。
Staff treatment is very poor, did not compile eight Jianmin: Wuhan conjoined, medical community construction to promote grading diagnosis and treatment? In 2006 (2016 or 2006?), we signed with Wuhan Concorde counterpart support.
当时由武汉市卫生局牵头，一部分协和的医生下沉到街道，但他们都是专科医生，并不愿意看我们的全科病人，除非遇到特别对口的病人。
Led by the Wuhan Health Bureau, some of the Concorde's doctors went down the street, but they were specialists and did not want to see our general patients unless they had a special counterpart.
而且医生下社区，没有绩效考核绑定，他们积极性也不高。
And doctors in the community, there is no performance appraisal binding, they are not very motivated.
后来，协和开始发展自己的医疗，不断的扩张、建楼，越做越大，不断地建分院，人员特别紧张，后来根本派不出人去社区，这种模式就逐渐终止了。
Later, Concorde began to develop its own medical care, constantly expanding, building buildings, doing more and more, building branches, being particularly stressed, and then not being able to send people to the community at all.
大医院的虹吸效应太厉害了，它发展的越大，我们这里的病人就越少。
The siphon effect of a big hospital is too great. The more it develops, the fewer patients we have here.
最近两三年，武汉又在推行区域医联体，那么我们区是二级医疗机构带13条社区卫生中心，也有点吃不消。
In the past two or three years, Wuhan in the implementation of regional conjoined, then our district is a secondary medical institutions with 13 community health centres, also a bit difficult.
这是武汉市转变思维的结果，之前协和医院，是省部级医院，级别和水平和我们差距太大。
This is the result of the transformation of thinking in Wuhan, the former Concorde Hospital, is a provincial-level hospital, the level and level of our gap is too large.
现在的模式是“三二一”，三级医院带二级医院，二级医院带一级和底下N个社区卫生服务中心。
The current model is "3 by 1," with a level-III hospital with a level II hospital and a primary and lower N community health services centres.
这两年，我们和区里的红十字会医院就是医联体模式。
In these two years, we and the district Red Cross hospital is the conjoined model.
没有任何一个社区卫生服务中心是是被医院人财物全部托管的，除非是这个医院自己创办的社区卫生服务中心。
None of the community health services centres are fully staffed by hospital personnel, except for the community health service centres established by the hospital itself.
红十字会医院办了一个唐家墩社区卫生服务中心，人员全部都是红十字会医院的编制，享受和医院一样的待遇，人财物都归医院管。
The Red Cross Hospital runs a community health service centre in Tangjiadun, staffed entirely by Red Cross hospital staff and treated like a hospital, with all its personnel and possessions under hospital supervision.
卫生院做的一些工作可以由本院来支持，比如说，卫生院在开展家庭医生签约工作上，就比我们有优势，尤其是老年人体检，有医院的支持。
Some of the work done at the health centres can be supported by the hospital, for example, which has an advantage over us in the contracting of family doctors, particularly in the area of medical examinations for the elderly, with the support of hospitals.
我们做老年人体检，完全靠自己，还要去联系医院。
We do a physical examination of the elderly, completely on their own, but also to contact the hospital.
这个卫生院可以把老年人直接送到医院的体检中心，没有什么障碍。
This clinic can take the elderly directly to the hospital's medical centre without any obstacles.
（本文中方涵为化名）吴靖|撰稿微信号：1136352312王晨|统筹 责编微信号：2174127我们尊重原创版权，未经允许请勿转载。
Writing microsignals: 1136352312 Wang Chen & # 124; Co-ordinated microsignals: 2174127. We respect original copyright and do not reproduce it without permission.
授权转载郑琪 微信号:1281949389商务合作上海：leslee 13916263824北京：Jessie 13911125922线索爆料、意见反馈，加入核心读者社群请扫码联系健闻君让朋友们看到你也在看↓↓↓。
Authorized reprint of Zheng Qi microsignal: 1281949389 Commercial Cooperation Shanghai: Leslee 13916263824 Beijing: Jessie 13911125922 Tells burst of material, feedback, join the core reader community, please sweep the code to let your friends see you, too.
健闻吴靖。
Hear Wu Jing.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
已喜欢，对作者说句悄悄话。
Like it, whisper to the author.
发送给作者。
Send to author.
最多40字，当前共字。
Up to 40 words, currently in common.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉疫情第一道防线——社区卫生服务中心是怎样失守的？。
Wuhan epidemic of the first line of defense - community health service center is how to lose?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "八点健闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at eight.
var msg_title = "武汉疫情第一道防线——社区卫生服务中心是怎样失守的？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; How did Wuhan's first line of defence, the Community Health Service, fall?;
var msg_desc = "一位社区卫生服务中心负责人的口述。
var msg _ desc = & quot; oral statement by a head of a community health service centre.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="八点健闻";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; eight.
