不止有武汉：湖北疫区17城实录（下篇）。
More than Wuhan: Hubei epidemic area 17 cities recorded (next section).
房宫一柳 等。
a willow house etc.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
这是一场无法预知开始、但也许可以看到结局的抗击疫情特殊战役，它不仅仅是疫情爆发地汉口的战役，更是武汉及周边，湖北、乃至全国的战役文|《财经》记者房宫一柳黎诗韵管艺雯宋玮高洪浩余洋洋陈晶实习生张凡马可欣编辑|宋玮1月24日，中国农历除夕当天，湖北天门人程光从武汉自驾回天门市，他见证了“封城”的全过程：先是铁路、高速路封闭，接着一些县道乃至乡道也开始封闭，很多人通过在农村小路上开车逃避警察检查站来避开封锁。
It is a special battle against the epidemic, which is unpredictable but may see the end. It is not only the battle in Hankou, where the outbreak took place, but also the battle in and around Wuhan, Hubei and even the whole country.
后来，他在一座桥上被堵住，当地政府不得不派了个摆渡车把人摆进城，没有人的空车密密麻麻停了一桥。
Later, when he was blocked on a bridge, the local government had to send a ferry to the city and no one's empty cars stopped.
而他的妻子，还留在武汉。
His wife, meanwhile, remained in Wuhan.
他们度过了第一个没有互相陪伴的除夕，不知何时能再见。
They passed the first New Year's Eve without each other, and did not know when to see each other again.
程光说，“封城”之前，他还和太太开玩笑说“该不会“封城”吧，没想到成真了，他们都成了疫情中心的人。
Before "sealing the city," Cheng said, joking with his wife that "it's not going to be closed," but it turned out they were all at the center of the epidemic.
“可当灾难降临时，都难以相信是灾难。
"But when disaster strikes, it's hard to believe it's a disaster.
”他对《财经》记者说。
'he told Caijing.
湖北省千万普通人，因为突如其来的疫情，生活被重新分割、春节被重新定义。
Hubei province thousands of ordinary people, because of the sudden epidemic, life was re-divided, the Spring Festival was redefined.
社会正在为这次疫情付出更多的代价，包括亲情、人情、健康和经济。
Society is paying more for the epidemic in terms of family, human, health and economic well-being.
一位家住武汉的人士说，这是她第一次哭着度过的春节。
It was the first time she had spent the Spring Festival crying, said a Wuhan-based resident.
“大过年的，为什么要分别，为什么要拼命？”1月26日，襄阳宣布从次日凌晨起封锁出入交通，湖北“封城”名单再添一城。
On January 26, Xiangyang announced that traffic would be blocked from the next morning, adding another city to the list of "closed cities" in Hubei Province.
也就意味着，除了山林遍布的神农架外，湖北城市地区都进入“封城”状态。
This means that in addition to the mountains and forests throughout Shennongjia, Hubei urban areas have entered the state of "closed city."
它们分别是武汉、鄂州、仙桃、枝江、潜江、黄冈、赤壁、荆门、咸宁、黄石（含大冶市、阳新县）、当阳、恩施、孝感、宜昌、荆州、随州、十堰、襄阳。
They are Wuhan, Huizhou, Xiantao, Zhijiang, Submerged River, Huanggang, Red Cliff, Jingmen, Xianning, Huang Shi (including Daye City, Yangxin County), Dangyang, Enshi, Filial Feeling, Yichang, Jingzhou, Suizhou, Shiyan and Xiangyang.
湖北是一个典型省会为大的城市，武汉资源集中，交通呈放射状辐射周围。
Hubei is a typical provincial capital of a large city, Wuhan resources are concentrated, traffic around radiation.
围绕武汉有“8+1”城市圈，当很多人在喊“武汉加油”时，武汉之外的湖北其他17座城市及管辖地区，需要外界更多的关注和支援。
Wuhan around the "8 + 1" city circle, when many people shouted "Wuhan refueling," Hubei other 17 cities and jurisdictions outside Wuhan, need more attention and support from the outside world.
黄石五医院的一位医生告诉《财经》记者，他在感染门诊值班，很长时间都没有护目镜，每次取咽喉试纸都被喷一脸唾沫，后来好不容易有了一个护目镜，现在每天用酒精擦了轮流用。
A doctor at Huang Shiwu Hospital told Caijing that he was on duty at the Infection Clinic for a long time without goggles, and that he had to spit on his throat paper every time.
黄冈浠水县医院的一位医护人员说，他刚刚拍了一个一家三口的CT，有两个肺部阳性，分别年龄是28和29岁，他没有护目镜，近距离接触患者。
It is indicated that a medical staff at these county hospital has just taken a CT scan of a family of three with two pulmonary positives aged 28 and 29 who have no goggles and are exposed to the patient at close range.
《财经》采访了这17座城市中近50人，他们中有一线的医护人员、隔离在家的市民、山区的农民、疑似病患。
Caijing interviewed nearly 50 people in the 17 cities, including front-line medical workers, isolated citizens, mountain farmers and suspected patients.
1月26日，我们刊发了疫区实录的上篇，1月27日我们呈上这个实录的下篇。
On January 26, we published the last part of the tape of the epidemic area, and on January 27th we submitted the next part of the transcript.
这是一场无法预知开始、但也许可以看到结局的抗击疫情特殊战役，它不仅仅是疫情爆发地汉口的战役，更是武汉及周边，湖北、乃至全国的抗击疫情战役。
This is a special battle against the epidemic, which is unpredictable but may see the end. It is not only the battle in Hankou, the epicentre of the outbreak, but also the battle against the epidemic in Wuhan and its immediate vicinity, in Hubei and throughout the country.
无论是逃离武汉的人、发热的病患、奔波的医护人员、普通的市民，他们都是另一些人的儿女、家人，所有人的命运在此交织。
Whether they are fleeing Wuhan, feverish patients, traveling medical personnel, ordinary citizens, they are the children of others, the family, the fate of all people interwoven here.
10武汉，无防护措施的高危护士：“开颅手术进行中，被告知患者肺部已感染”刚下手术累得睡着了的张瑶张瑶是一名手术麻醉科的护士。
Wuhan, high-risk nurse without protective measures: "During the craniotomy, the patient was told that his lungs had been infected." Zhang Yao, who had just fallen asleep from surgery, was a nurse in the surgical anaesthesia department.
1月23日，武汉“封城”前一天，她接到了领导电话，领导问她，你是科室最年轻的党员，愿不愿意起先锋作用，她毫不犹豫地答应了。
On January 23, the day before Wuhan "closed the city," she received a call from the leadership, asked her, you are the youngest members of the department, willing to play a pioneering role, she did not hesitate to agree.
张瑶告诉父母医院要加班后，就连夜搭车回了武汉。
Zhang Yao told her parents that the hospital had to work overtime, so she hitchhiked back to Wuhan.
但她没有告诉父母，她所在的医院被列为定点医院的对口医院，同时她也已经应征调配，以后可能前往定点医院一线。
She did not tell her parents, however, that her hospital had been designated as the hospital's counterpart and that she had been called up for deployment, possibly on the way to the designated hospital.
张瑶告诉《财经》记者，1月26日，一位脑出血患者被送到急症手术室，亲属说没有武汉接触史、不发热，要求立马手术。
Zhang Yao told Caijing that on January 26, a patient with cerebral hemorrhage was sent to the emergency operation room. Relatives said there was no Wuhan contact history and no fever.
但在手术过程中，他们被告知，该患者CT结果显示肺部已感染，属于高度疑似新冠肺炎患者。
But during the operation, they were told that CT findings showed that the lung was infected and that the patient was highly suspected of pneumonia.
“听到结果的那一刻，我们6个人都沉默了。
"The moment we heard the result, all six of us were silent.
”张瑶说。
'said Zhang Yao.
因为家属并未提前告知此情况，所有手术中的医护人员都没有佩戴专用口罩、没有戴护目镜，而正在进行的是极其容易暴露感染源的开颅手术。
As the family did not inform this in advance, all the medical staff in the operation did not wear a special mask, did not wear goggles, but were performing craniotomy, which is extremely vulnerable to infection.
“我们都意识到自己可能成为高危感染人群，但是没有办法，手术还是要继续。
"We are all aware that we may be at high risk of infection, but we have no choice but to continue the operation.
”手术结束，去重症监护室的路上，家属这才告诉医生，患者已经在家发烧两天了。
On the way to intensive care, the family told the doctor that the patient had been running a fever for two days.
当天回家后，张瑶大哭了一场。
After returning home that day, Zhang Yao cried loudly.
她觉得委屈，害怕自己成为潜伏期的病患，传染给其他医护人员和病人。
She felt aggrieved, afraid she would become an incubator, infecting other health-care workers and patients.
她也觉得困惑，“保护医生，难道不也是在保护所有人吗？患者为什么要瞒着我们？”张瑶说，为什么大家都没有做好防护，因为医院不是定点医院，物资本来就少，能有的都送去了发热门诊，手术麻醉科能有的防护服都留给了麻醉师，因为他们是最危险的人。
"Why is the patient hiding from us?" Zhang Yao said. "The hospital is not an on-site hospital. Some of them are sent to the fever clinic. All the protective clothing that the anesthesiology department can have is left to the anesthesiologist because they are the most dangerous person.
但因为是定点医院对口医院，很多医疗需求都转给了他们。
However, many medical needs were referred to them because they were designated hospital counterparts.
“资源都是不到万不得已都舍不得用，一个口罩能戴好几天。
"Resources are less than a last resort reluctant to use, a mask can wear for several days.
”工作环境并不允许她在家隔离14天。
The work environment did not allow her to remain in isolation for 14 days.
一是因为医院人手不够，二是因为她住在医院统一安排的宿舍，同住的还有多个室友。
One is because the hospital is understaffed, and the other is because she lives in a dormitory with several roommates.
她打电话问询过一家宣传愿意为医生提供免费住宿的酒店，对方告知：只能给五间房，只能住一晚。
She called a hotel that advertised a free stay for doctors and was told only five rooms for one night.
宿舍离医院有五公里，现在她每天要步行一个多小时回家，因为下班太晚，班车不等人。
The dormitory is five kilometers away from the hospital, and now she has to walk home for more than an hour every day.
回武汉后，张瑶在朋友圈里发布了很多捐赠求助、疫情等信息，但都把家人屏蔽了。
Back in Wuhan, Zhang Yao released a lot of donation help, epidemic situation and so on in the circle of friends, but all blocked the family.
她的妈妈不知道她在医院经历了什么，只是时不时地问候她，“怎么样了？”“现在武汉还好吗？”张瑶看到一些谣言说“武汉医护人员百分之百感染”。
Her mother didn't know what she had been through in the hospital, but asked her from time to time, "How's it going?" "Is Wuhan OK now?" Zhang Yao saw some rumors that "Wuhan medical staff are 100 percent infected."
她非常气愤：“如果我妈妈看到这些了，又会怎么想？”11天门，愤怒的女儿：“哪怕晚10天（而不是晚了20天）公布疫情，我妈妈就可以避免去接诊这位病人了。
She was furious, "What if my mother saw this?" Eleven days later, her angry daughter said, "Even if she announces the outbreak 10 days later (instead of 20 days late), my mother will be able to avoid attending the patient.
”这个春节对王恕萍一家异常难熬，她的母亲在天门三医（天门市新型冠状病毒诊治定点医院）已被隔离三天。
"The Spring Festival was particularly painful for the Wang family, whose mother was quarantined for three days at Tianmen Sanjiao, the new coronavirus treatment and treatment hospital.
1月24日，天门首次宣布确诊三名新型冠状病毒患者，年龄分别是39岁、45岁、65岁，均有武汉居住中，旅行中或接触史。
On January 24, Tianmen first announced the diagnosis of three new coronavirus patients, aged 39, 45 and 65, all of whom had a history of living, travelling or contacting Wuhan.
消息还显示，追踪密切接触者为10人，均在接受医学观察。
Sources also indicated that close contacts of 10 people were being followed and were under medical observation.
王恕萍的母亲就是这十名与冠状病毒患者密切接触者中的一个。
Wang's mother was one of 10 people in close contact with coronavirus patients.
王恕萍告诉《财经》杂志记者，母亲是天门下属岳口镇梁巷村村卫生室的医生，11天前（约1月16日），一位武汉回来的发热病人来卫生室看病，母亲后来确认说，她跟患者接触的时候已佩戴口罩——这也是出于她的职业习惯。
Wang told Caijing magazine that her mother, a doctor at Liang Lane Village Health Center in Yue Kou Township, Tianmen Province, 11 days ago (about January 16), a hot patient from Wuhan came to the clinic and her mother later confirmed that she had worn a mask when she came into contact with her patients - also because of her professional habits.
1月22日，人在国外的王恕萍在与母亲通电话时，听到母亲有些轻微咳嗽，24日，母亲一觉醒来后出现了发热症状。
On January 22, while talking on the phone with her mother, Wang Ming-ping, who lives abroad, heard her mother cough a little.
“我爷爷立刻把她送去了三医，被隔离至今。
"My grandfather immediately sent her to three different doctors, and she remains in quarantine.
”王恕萍母亲入院的当天就传来消息，她当时接诊的发热病人已确诊冠状病毒感染。
Wang's mother was admitted to hospital on the day news came that the fever patient she was attending had confirmed the coronavirus infection.
王恕萍把母亲的CT原片给一位武汉大学医学院的原老师诊断，对方回复，CT显示“磨玻璃影”，很大可能有感染。
Wang Mingping gave a former teacher of Wuhan University School of Medicine the original CT diagnosis, the other side of the response, CT showed "grinding glass shadow," a high probability of infection.
“母亲跟我说，她就在医院里，和另外一个病人在一间房里。
"Mother told me she was in the hospital, in the same room as the other patient.
”王恕萍说，“除了那个CT，到目前为止没有被要求做其他检查。
"With the exception of that CT, no other tests have been required so far," Wang said.
”令人欣慰的是，王恕萍母亲目前现在状况尚好，病情没有继续恶化。
Thankfully, Wang's mother is now in good shape and has not continued to deteriorate.
“她已经出了200块的CT费用，其他费用暂未被提起，医院有人送餐，但医生和护士比较难见到。
"She has already paid 200 dollars in CT fees, other expenses have not been mentioned, there are people in the hospital to deliver food, but doctors and nurses are less likely to see it.
”王恕萍说，她在2019年12月31日就给母亲微信转发了官方公布的第一条消息：“武汉出现不明肺炎”。
Wang said she sent her first official message to her mother on December 31, 2019: "Unknown pneumonia in Wuhan."
但后来方向变为“不存在明显人传人”，“可防可控”，王恕萍也就对它失去了关注，更别说对信息不敏感的母亲了。
But then the direction changed to "no obvious person-to-person", "defensible controllable," Wang also lost focus on it, let alone insensitive to information mother.
“我现在最生气的，如果晚10天公布（他们是晚了20天，恰恰是在春运返乡的高潮），我妈妈就可以避免去接诊这位病人了！”王恕萍说，除了母亲，希望媒体、政府能关注下其他村医务室的医生。
"What I am most angry about now is that if I announce it 10 days late (they are 20 days late, which is the climax of the spring transport home), my mother will be able to avoid attending to this patient," Wang said.
武汉其他城市都被忽略了，她现在很担心家里的其他人，爷爷、外婆和表姐一家，他们都是和母亲有过亲密接触的人。
Wuhan other cities have been neglected, she is now worried about the rest of the family, grandpa, grandmother and cousin family, they have had close contact with the mother.
天门，独自返乡的丈夫：“当灾难降临时，都难以相信是灾难”雨后的天门市程光的除夕夜是在家过的，年夜饭有藕汤、烩鳝鱼、回锅牛肉和青菜。
Tianmen, a husband returning home alone: "When disaster comes, it is hard to believe that it is a disaster." After the rain, Tianmen City Chenguang New Year's Eve is at home, there is lotus soup, stew eel, beef and vegetables.
以往是一大家人一起过年，今年只有四个人。
It used to be a big family, but this year there are only four.
他的太太独自被封在武汉了。
His wife was sealed off in Wuhan alone.
程光说，“封城”之前，他还和太太开玩笑说“该不会‘封城’吧”，没想到成真了，他们都成了疫情中心的人，“当灾难降临时，都难以相信是灾难。
Before "sealing the city," Cheng said, joking with his wife that "it's not going to be closed," but when it did, they were at the center of the epidemic. "When disaster struck, it was hard to believe it was a disaster.
”1月24日，农历大年三十，程光从武汉自驾回到老家天门，这也是武汉“封城”的第二天。
On January 24, the 30th anniversary of the Chinese New Year, Cheng drove back to his hometown of Tianmen from Wuhan, the second day of the city's closure.
程光开上路发现，铁路、高速路封了，天门当地的一些乡镇也开始封路，县道乃至乡道开始封闭，这意味着从乡镇到市区的道路被封闭。
Cheng Gang opened the road to find that the railway, highway blocked, Tianmen local towns and villages have also begun to seal off, county roads and even township roads began to close, meaning that the road from the township to the city was closed.
他告诉《财经》记者，天门当地有个镇叫皂市镇，他回来时在进城的一座桥上被堵住，所有的车都开不过来。
He told Caijing that there was a town called Soap Township in Tianmen. When he came back, he got stuck on a bridge in the city.
最后，当地政府派了个摆渡车把人摆过来，车都留在桥上。
Finally, the local government sent a ferry to put the people over, and the cars remained on the bridge.
好不容易回到家，程光发现奶奶有一些咳嗽，他的奶奶有心脏病史。
After getting home, Cheng noticed that Grandma had a few coughs and that her grandmother had a history of heart disease.
于是在除夕夜前，他带着奶奶返回天门市中医院看心脏方面的问题，但医院很保守，回复说，有任何疑似症状（包括咳嗽）都先让先去发热门诊看一下程光的太太现在独自在武汉，蔬菜和肉等食物缺乏，药店也全部关门了。
So before New Year's Eve, he returned with his grandmother to Tian Men's Hospital for heart problems, but the hospital was very conservative and replied that any suspected symptoms (including coughs) were first referred to the fever clinic.
除了物资，靠谱的信息对他们来说也很稀缺。
In addition to supplies, reliable information is scarce for them.
“官方宣传的速度赶不上微信转发的信息，真假不好区分。
"The speed of official propaganda is not keeping pace with the message being relayed by micro-letters.
”程光是个很理性的人，他关心的是，疫情之后，武汉的社会经济会受到什么影响？武汉的城市印象会有什么影响？12渔薪镇，用酒水喷洒家中消毒的村民：“我们最担心的不是疫情，而是不通畅的信息。
"Cheng light is a very rational person, he is concerned about, after the epidemic, Wuhan's socio-economic impact? Wuhan's impression of the city will be affected? 12 Fishertown, spray homes with disinfectant villagers:" What we are most worried about is not the outbreak, but poor information.
”付达家在天门市下属渔薪镇涂嘴村，他的孩子正月初四满周岁，听说武汉“封城”后，当天下午立刻决定取消了周岁宴。
The Fu Da family in Tianmen City fishing town Tu mouth village, his children turned four in the first month, heard that Wuhan "closed the city," the same afternoon immediately decided to cancel the one-year-old banquet.
天门也属于武汉“8+1”城市圈城市之一，和武汉往来密切。
Tianmen also belongs to Wuhan "8 + 1" city circle city, and Wuhan exchanges closely.
付达说，现在村民很自觉在家自我隔离，街道基本不见人，村与村、组与组之间，用土堆、路挡、警车来隔离。
Now villagers feel isolated at home, with few people in the streets, and between villages, groups and groups, they are isolated with earth mounds, road blocks and police cars, Fida said.
有一座从村里到镇上的桥，大桥都已被封闭了，其他的村子出入路口，也基本被堵住，不让走动。
There was a bridge from the village to the town, which had been sealed off, and the other villages were largely blocked from moving.
付达和他的朋友王博都称，同村有一名从武汉返乡的人士被拉走隔离。
Fuda and his friend Wang Bo both said a man from the same village who had returned home from Wuhan had been taken into isolation.
“现在村里有些恐慌。
"There is some panic in the village now.
”两人称，他们最需要的是知道外界情况，他们最担心的不是疫情，而是不通畅的信息。
What they need most, they say, is to know what is going on. What they are worrying about most is not the outbreak, but poor information.
付达告诉《财经》记者，现在大街上买不到酒精和消毒液了，他希望政府可以组织消毒。
Fidelity told Caijing that alcohol and disinfectant were no longer available on the streets, and he wanted the government to disinfect them.
“我们现在都用酒水喷洒。
"We're all drinking spray now.
”王博说，大家对这次疫情缺乏正确认识，一方面对病毒实际危害不清楚而恐慌，另一方面，也和政府宣传有关。
"There was a lack of proper understanding of the epidemic and panic over the lack of clarity about the actual virus," Wang said, referring to government propaganda.
毕竟对于家乡很多人来说，没有更多的信息输入渠道，不知道如何防护，也不知道厉害关系，需要基层政府做好宣传工作。
After all, for many people back home, there is no more information input channels, do not know how to protect, do not know the important relationship, the grass-roots government needs to do a good job of publicity.
村民没有口罩，有时候人们在家自娱自乐，把孩子的尿不湿套在头上。
Villagers don't have masks, and sometimes people amuse themselves at home by putting their children's urine on their heads.
付达家的老人们紧闭在家，屋后一个菜园，老人家就和邻居隔着十多米在喊话拉家常。
The old people of the Fu Da family close at home, a vegetable garden behind the house, the old people and neighbors over a dozen meters in shouting.
没有口罩，把孩子的尿不湿套在头上付达说，他们现在都和亲戚们网上约着打麻将，他给记者展示了约麻将局的微信截屏，群名是：天天向上。
Now they're dating relatives online, he says. He showed reporters the video footage of the Mahjong meeting. The group name is: Day in and day out.
13咸宁，母亲和弟弟身在一线：“每次接电话都害怕是一个坏消息。
13 Xianning, mother and brother are on the line: "Every time I answer the phone, I'm afraid it's bad news.
”咸宁和武汉接壤，小路众多，即使国道被封，武汉也有很多各种途径，可以直通咸宁。
"Xianning and Wuhan border, many paths, even if the national road was sealed, Wuhan also has many ways, can go straight to Xianning.
直到1月24日，咸宁的冠状病毒患者确诊人数一直是零。
Until Jan. 24, the number of people diagnosed with the coronavirus in Xianning was zero.
当天，检测试纸到了。
On the same day, the test paper arrived.
次日，咸宁市就发布了两次讯息，先报告了冠状病毒患者确诊人数为7例，再报告了21例。
The next day, Xianning City issued two messages, first reported the number of coronavirus patients confirmed 7, and reported 21 more.
当地1月26日一早发布的数据为43例，仅次于武汉、黄冈、孝感，为湖北省第四。
The local January 26 early release of data of 43 cases, after Wuhan, Huanggang, filial piety, Hubei Province for the fourth.
刘木霖的母亲是咸宁第一人民医院外科的医生。
Liu's mother is a surgeon at Xianning First People's Hospital.
1月25日，她的母亲接到通知，咸宁第一人民医院要将医院清空，把其他住院患者转入市区其他医院，第一人民医院专门收治发热病人。
On 25 January, her mother was informed that the First People's Hospital in Xianning would empty the hospital and transfer other hospitalized patients to other hospitals in the city, while the First People's Hospital specialized in treating febrile patients.
这几日医院开始对医护人员密集培训，同时组建隔离病房、对各个科室进行排班，包括外科。
These days, the hospital began intensive training of medical personnel, the formation of isolation wards, various sections and scheduling, including surgery.
人在外地的刘木霖很是担忧母亲。
People in the field of Liu Mulin is worried about her mother.
她告诉《财经》记者，母亲告诉她，1月23日，有一个病人因为发热就直接就转到外科去了，但按理说那个发烧病人应该去发热门诊。
She told Caijing that her mother told her that on January 23, a patient had gone straight to surgery with a fever, but that the fever patient should have gone to the fever clinic.
外科的医护人员当时并无配备N95和防护服，医护人员都带着一次性外科口罩，和那个病人接触，包括她的母亲。
Surgical staff were not equipped with N95 and protective clothing, and medical staff were wearing disposable surgical masks and were in contact with the patient, including her mother.
后来有一名护士，出现了咳嗽、低烧的症状，目前正在医院隔离观察。
A nurse later developed symptoms of cough and low fever and is now being quarantined at the hospital.
“但其他医生、护士都是该回家回家，该上班上班。
"But the other doctors and nurses have to go home and go to work.
”“我妈说，物资缺乏，N95肯定要给最一线的地方用，她们戴普通口罩就行了。
"My mom says there's a shortage of supplies, and N95 must be for the front line, they just have to wear regular masks.
”刘木霖告诉《财经》记者，“我妈还说，只要没有退休，该战斗的时候都得战斗。
"My mother also said that as long as we don't retire, we have to fight when we have to," Liu told Caijing.
她当年非典还申请过上一线，现在50多了，依然很昂扬，觉得这是医者使命。
She also applied to the first line of SARS, now more than 50, is still very high, feel that this is the mission of the doctor.
”“她就是那种一呼就应，会为了别人，不顾自己去做一些事情，所以我才会替她担心。
"" She's the kind of person who does things on the spur of the moment, for other people and regardless of who she is, that's why I worry about her.
我一直跟她说，你这年纪大了就不要去冲啊，她说如果医院需要就一定会回去。
I kept telling her not to rush when you're old, and she said she would go back if the hospital needed it.
”“可我就是放心不下，如果医院不给你足够的防护，你直接回去，那不是送死吗？”刘木霖说，她现在很怕接母亲电话，又特别希望接到她的电话，心情很复杂。
"But I just can't worry, if the hospital doesn't give you enough protection and you go straight back, isn't it?" Liu said.
刘木霖以前和母亲很少打电话，因为她工作也很忙，可能母女俩一个月才打一次。
Liu used to call her mother infrequently because she was also busy, and probably only played once a month between mother and daughter.
“最近几次，每次突然接到她的电话，她都会说，自己突然接到医院的什么消息，或者什么通知，或者确诊人数又突然涨了，每一次告诉我都是一个更严重的情况，每次都会让我更加担心。
"The last couple of times, every time I hear a phone call from her, she says she suddenly gets something from the hospital, or something, or a sudden increase in the number of people diagnosed, and each time it's a more serious situation, it makes me even more worried.
”刘木霖在网上看到很多周边城市的求助信息，却唯独没有看到咸宁的，而且医院昨天才临时开始定点接受发热病人，所以很可能医院也还没有来得准备物资。
"Liu saw help messages from many neighboring cities on the Internet, but only Xianning, and the hospital only yesterday temporarily began to accept febrile patients, so it is likely that the hospital has not yet arrived to prepare supplies.
“我就特别担心后面接下来的情况，担心我妈妈。
"I'm especially worried about the rest of the world, about my mother.
”她说。
'she said.
刘木霖说，她的弟弟也是医生，去年11月小孩才出生。
Liu said her brother, also a doctor, was born in November last year.
弟弟说他现在回家都不敢碰、不敢抱小孩子，只能看几眼。
Brother said he now home dare not touch, dare not hold children, can only see a few eyes.
1月25日，刘木霖听家人说，武汉通往咸阳的那些小路或许会被直接进行挖断，把“封城”做得更彻底。
On January 25, Liu heard his family say that Wuhan to the Xianyang those paths may be directly cut, the "seal" to do more thorough.
14赤壁，渴望不再恐慌的市民：“我和我的朋友们都希望能把武汉加油改成湖北加油。
Red wall, eager to no longer panic citizens: "My friends and I hope to be able to refuel Wuhan into Hubei refueling.
”赤壁市民魏辉和全家人一起看春晚，看到小品时一些令人发笑的桥段，他不太敢笑，“隐隐在心里觉得，这个时候，笑是不对的。
"Wei Hui, a citizen of Chibi, and his family watched the Spring Festival Gala and saw some funny passages of the sketch.
”他说，看到春晚关于肺炎的节目还挺感动的，好像是临时加上去的一个节目。
He said he was moved to see the program on pneumonia on Chunwan, which seemed to be an impromptu addition to the program.
可这时候他又不敢认真地听，因为怕听了之后会掉眼泪。
But he did not dare to listen, for he was afraid to shed tears when he heard it.
“在那个节目中，最后还是说的是武汉加油。
"In that program, finally said that Wuhan refueling.
我和我的朋友们都希望，能够把武汉加油改成湖北加油。
My friends and I hope to be able to add fuel to Wuhan into Hubei refueling.
”魏辉说，从一开始到现在，他觉得全国，甚至省内的人们对武汉周边的城市、县城的关注都很弱。
Wei said that from the beginning to the present, he felt that people all over the country and even in the province paid little attention to the cities and counties around Wuhan.
县城的资源肯定无法和武汉相比，但县城去武汉工作的人又特别多，所以他格外担心武汉周边县城的情况。
The resources of the county can not be compared with Wuhan, but the county to work in Wuhan people are particularly many, so he is particularly worried about the situation around Wuhan county.
他整理了他所关注到的现状：1、谣言遍布，很多可怕的信息不知真假。
He sorted out the facts he was concerned about: 1. Rumors were rife and a lot of terrible information was untrue.
2、居民防护意识薄弱，药店口罩酒精全部脱销。
(2) Weak public awareness of protection, pharmacies face mask alcohol sold out.
3 、医院资源非常稀缺，没有试剂盒无法确诊，医用设备、医疗设备、试剂、药品、防护设备、消洗设备、耗材（其中口罩需求量较大） 4 、上报还需审批，所以疑似和确诊病例都没有公开。
3, hospital resources are very scarce, no kits can be diagnosed, medical equipment, medical equipment, reagents, drugs, protective equipment, cleaning equipment, consumables (of which there is a high demand for masks) 4.
魏辉和其他很多接受采访的民众一样，希望记者可以多核实、多发布真实信息。
Wei, like many other people interviewed, wanted reporters to verify and release more truthful information.
他看到了微信群传播的一个病人直接倒下的视频，“这会让我们格外恐慌。
He saw a video of a patient toppling directly from a microphone colony. "This is going to terrify us a lot.
”“今天晚上的春晚一直在放着，我们都没有认真的看。
"" Tonight the Spring Festival Evening has been on, and we didn't really look at it.
脑袋里真的，那首诗一直在脑袋里回荡，就是那句——隔江犹唱后庭花。
In the head really, that poem has been echoing in the head, is that sentence - the next river sings after the court.
”他说。
'he said.
15荆州公安县，帮不上忙干着急的老乡：“那句‘真的关心就拿物资过来’，真的把我气到了。
15 Jingzhou public security county, can not help the villagers in a hurry: "really care about the material come here ', really made me angry.
”公安县是湖北荆州下属最大的县，距离荆州车程约一小时。
The county is the largest subordinate county in Jingzhou, about an hour's drive from Jingzhou.
公安县是一个历史古县，三国时期，因左将军刘备（人称左公）屯兵油江口（今县城所在地），取“左公安营扎寨”之意，改名公安。
Public Security County is a historical ancient county, the Three Kingdoms period, because left general Liu Bei (known as the left grandfather) Tun Pingkou oil (now the county seat), take "Zuo Gong camp camp" meaning, renamed public security.
由于公安县名字的特殊性，在贴吧里并没有公安吧，而是要输入“公安县”才有该县的贴吧，曾被网友调侃是全国唯一没有贴吧的县。
Because of the particularity of the name of public security county, there is no public security bar in the paste bar, but to enter "Public Security County" before the county has posted bar, has been ridiculed by netizens is the only county not posted bar.
陈一丹的妹妹在县人民医院工作，这也是公安县最大的医院。
Chen's sister works at the county people's hospital, the largest in public security county.
根据当地微信公众号的通告，包括县人民医院和中医院，共有34名医护人员在防控救治一线。
According to the notice of the local micro-letter public, including county people's hospital and traditional Chinese hospital, a total of 34 medical personnel in the prevention and treatment of frontline.
据《财经》记者了解，截止1月25日，公安县确诊4例，人民医院共收治约28个病例。
As of January 25, 4 cases had been diagnosed in public security counties and about 28 cases had been admitted to the People's Hospital, according to Caijing reporter.
陈一丹说，目前公安县官方仍然在不断排查武汉返乡的人，但感染科因为病床不够，已经把其他病人（比如肺结核或者其他传染病的病人）转移到了其他科，而其他科的医生和负责防控一线的34位医护人员目前急缺医疗物资。
Police officials are still checking Wuhan returnees, but the infection section has moved other patients (such as patients with tuberculosis or other infectious diseases) to other sections because of lack of beds, while doctors from other sections and 34 medical personnel in charge of front-line prevention and control are in urgent need of medical supplies, Chen said.
“荆州的物资尚且很不够，何况再下面的县医院。
"Jingzhou supplies are not enough, not to mention the county hospital below.
”她说，目前只有感染科和ICU科室的工作人员有N95口罩。
So far, only staff in infection and ICU departments have N95 masks, she said.
很多医生不得不自己在网上购买口罩，但基本都要到年后才发货。
Many doctors have to buy their own masks online, but most do not deliver them until about the year after.
公安县下属的南平镇有一个疑似病人，被村民电话举报后，警察和医生把病人运上车送往医院。
Police and doctors rushed patients to hospital after being called to report a suspected case in Nanping town, a county under public security.
但是据当时在场村民拍下的视频和照片显示，警察和病人都没有戴口罩。
But videos and photos taken by villagers showed neither the police nor the patients were wearing masks.
“很担心家里人的防范意识不够，目前老家的很多工厂都发了延迟上班的通知，但仍然需要有人值班，今天我的妈妈就去工厂值了一天班，每天进工厂前会有专人测量体温。
"I'm worried about my family's lack of precautions. Many factories in my hometown have been notified of delays, but people are still on duty. Today my mother went to the factory for a day's work and had her temperature taken before entering the factory every day.
”她说。
'she said.
1月26日下午4点起，公安县宣布对斗湖堤城区实行交通管制禁止机动车出行。
January 26 at 4 p.m., the public security county announced that the city of Douhu embankment traffic control ban motor vehicles travel.
一位医生说，他需要走两个小时才能到达医院。
A doctor said he had to walk two hours to get to the hospital.
陈一丹发现，家人和留在老家的朋友对公安县疫情情况都不太了解，也不是很关心，她更担心了，“感觉就我一个人在外地干着急，恨不得回去看看到底情况怎么样。
Chen found that her family and friends back home didn't know much about the situation in the county and didn't care much about it. She was even more worried.
”她拨打了医院志愿者电话，想了解下医院情况，但志愿者说自己不了解情况，只接受物资，说完便直接挂了电话。
"She called a hospital volunteer to find out about the hospital, but the volunteer said she didn't know the situation and only accepted the supplies, so she hung up the phone.
她还辗转联系到医院的一名医生，对方也不愿说太多，只回，“如果真的关心就拿物资过来。
She also contacted a doctor at the hospital, who would not say too much, only to say, "If you really care, bring supplies.
”陈一丹说，她听完有些懊恼。
"said Chen Yidan, annoyed to hear it all.
陈一丹整理了一个文档，名为《湖北荆州公安县疫情大致情》，她把自己了解到的靠谱信息、照片、捐助方法都放在了文档里，并发给其他希望了解情况的人。
Chen compiled a document entitled "Hubei Jingzhou public security county epidemic situation," she learned by relying on spectral information, photos, methods of donation are put in the file and sent to other people who want to know.
“气到了，我继续整理文档去了。
"Angry, I went on with the paperwork.
”这也是她表达爱和关心的方法。
This is how she expresses her love and care.
16麻城，小区保安的女儿：“小区查武汉回来的人，人没找到，车被标记了”“封城”进行中的麻城火车站麻城是湖北省直辖县级市，麻城距离武汉110公里，但该县拥有三条高铁和两条普铁，是湖北仅次于武汉、襄阳、宜昌的第四大铁路枢纽。
City, the residential security daughter: "the district back to Wuhan, people did not find, the car was marked" The ongoing Massachusetts City Railway Station is Hubei Province directly administered county, Massachusetts from Wuhan 110 kilometers, but the county has three high-speed rail and two common iron, Hubei is the next largest railway hub after Wuhan, Xiangyang, Yichang.
1月23日武汉“封城”后，身在麻城的张阳出门采购了大概3-4天的蔬菜肉类储备，她周围没人离开，倒是很多武汉人回来了，他们中很多人是赶着武汉“封城”前赶紧出城回来的。
Wuhan on January 23, after the "closure" of the city, Zhang Yang in Massachusetts about three to four days out of the purchase of vegetables and meat reserves, she did not leave, but a lot of Wuhan, many of them rushed back to Wuhan before the "closure" of the city.
除夕夜，张阳一家四口6点钟就吃了年夜饭，因为当小区保安的爸爸要上夜班。
On New Year's Eve, the four of them ate Chinese New Year's Eve at 6 o'clock, because their father had to work at night when he was a security guard.
爸爸上班后，张阳就和妈妈、弟弟在家看电视、刷微信群抢红包。
Dad after work, Zhang Yang and his mother, younger brother at home watching TV, brushing micro-groups red packets.
但红包抢着抢着张阳还是不放心，“很揪心，想知道更多的疫情信息。
But red envelopes scramble for Zhang Yang or not at ease, "very worried, want to know more information about the epidemic.
”除夕夜，对张阳来说是五味杂陈的一夜，她看见朋友圈里麻城医院物资捐助请求已经刷屏，她觉得感伤、悲愤、疑惑、恐惧、慌张、悲凉与无助。
"On New Year's Eve, which was a mixed night for Zhang Yang, she felt sad, angry, suspicious, frightened, flustered, sad and helpless when she saw the request for donations from the Massachusetts Institute of Hospitals in a circle of friends.
张阳不知道怎么排解心情，又看起了春晚，她对晚会中抗击肺炎的诗朗诵有一丝好奇，她对《财经》杂志记者说，“但听到白岩松一开口，我没有看下去，直接回房间了。
Zhang Yang did not know how to deal with the mood, and saw the Spring Festival Gala, she was a little curious about the poetry recital against pneumonia, she told Caijing magazine. "But when I heard Bai Yansong open her mouth, I didn't go straight to my room.
我当时脑子里全都是，湖北不止一个武汉，物资也好、求助也好，都是关于武汉的，我们这些武汉周边县市呢？有人关心吗？”在张阳满脑子想着“大家都关心武汉”的同一时刻，她的爸爸在他工作的小区看到，警察开车进小区，挨家挨户得查武汉“封城”后从那里回来的人，结果，“人没找到车找到了，车还被做标记了。
At the same time, when Zhang Yang was thinking about the same time that "everyone cares about Wuhan," her father saw the police driving into the community, going door-to-door to look up the Wuhan people back from the "closed city," the results, "people have not found the car, the car was marked.
”另一位麻城的市民告诉《财经》记者，昨天有人在小区地上捡到一张武汉到麻城的车票，现在全小区开始地毯式人肉搜索。
Another Massachusetts citizen told Caijing that a blanket human search had begun yesterday after someone picked up a Wuhan-Massachusetts ticket on the plot.
17枝江，从武汉返乡的姐妹俩：“上车前，我和姐姐一起去医院验血，显示自己身体没问题”田叙和姐姐两人同在武汉工作。
Before I got on the bus, my sister and I went to the hospital to have a blood test, which showed that I was all right.
她们很早就买好了22号返回枝江的车票，因为担心疫情，她在身体没有任何症状情况下，还是和姐姐一起去医院验了血，确定身体没问题，才拿着报告按原计划回家。
They bought the ticket back to Zhijiang on the 22nd very early. Fearing the outbreak, she went to the hospital with her sister for a blood test and made sure she was all right, for fear of the outbreak.
田叙告诉《财经》记者，她办公室有11个同事，有俩人担心自己身上有潜伏病毒，自觉留在武汉没回家。
Tian told Caijing that there were 11 colleagues in her office, two of whom feared they had latent virus and stayed home in Wuhan.
其他同事看着她回家之前查血，自己也都回家做了隔离或者检查。
Other colleagues looked at her before she went home for blood tests, and all of them went home for isolation or check-ups.
“其实多数人都没想着要流动，怕伤了自己，也怕害了别人。
"Most people don't want to move because they're afraid of hurting themselves and other people.
”另一位留守武汉的枝江人说。
"said another Zhijiang resident in Wuhan.
身处武汉，田叙对疫情非常关注。
In Wuhan, Tian and Syria are very concerned about the outbreak.
可22号回到枝江，她发现人们对疾病的防范意识是很弱的。
When she returned to Zhijiang on the 22nd, she found that people's awareness of disease prevention was weak.
后来接连“封城”后，政府开始重视。
Later, after the "closure", the government began to pay attention.
除夕早上，所有村民都需要去村医院量体温登记信息。
On New Year's Eve morning, all the villagers need to go to the village hospital for temperature registration information.
田叙的心态很微妙，她说自己什么信息都刷，“就是不相信官方信息。
Ms. Tian's mentality is subtle, saying she brushes everything, "but doesn't trust official information."
”18荆门，带母亲跑了两次医院的市民：“现在流行感冒也无法‘确诊’了”戴着已模糊不清的防护镜这些城市对冠性肺炎的反应弧线，大概和它“封城”的时间呈现正相关。
"Jingmen, a resident who took his mother to the hospital twice, said:" The current flu is not confirmed "by wearing blurred mirrors - the arc of the city's response to coronary pneumonia may be positively correlated with the timing of its" closure. "
荆门“封城”时间较晚。
Jingmen "closed the city" later.
一位荆门市民说，她的母亲16号从武汉回来后开始咳嗽，但直到22号才开始重视——此时已是武汉“封城”的前一天，他们去到荆门市第一医院检查。
A Jingmen resident said her mother, 16, returned from Wuhan and coughed until the 22nd, the day before the city was closed and they went to Jingmen Hospital No. 1 for an examination.
当时发热门诊和普通门诊基本没什么人，她母亲挂了一个专家号，没有发热，所以医生只开了一些常规止咳消炎的药，就让她回家了。
The fever clinic and the general outpatient clinic were almost empty. Her mother hung up an expert number and had no fever, so the doctor prescribed only a few conventional antitussis and anti-inflammatory drugs and sent her home.
当晚吃药并没有好转。
The medicine didn't improve that night.
第二天，她又带着母亲去了医院。
The next day, she took her mother to the hospital.
门口先试测体温，37.5°以上的会被划到发热门诊，大概只有三四个人排队。
Take a temperature test at the door. Those over 37.5 degrees will be paddled into a fever clinic, with only about three or four people queuing up.
而没有发热的则直接排队由一位全科医生接诊，这位医生只佩戴了普通口罩，没有防护服。
Those who did not have fever queued up to be treated by a general practitioner, who wore only a mask and no protective clothing.
病人中有一位的拍片结果显示肺部炎症了，医生问他要不要办住院，但没有强制要求。
One of the patients showed inflammation of the lungs, and the doctor asked if he wanted to be hospitalized, but there was no compulsion.
当时几乎所有轻微症状的患者都是，面诊，拍片，拿结果，开药，让病人回家。
Almost all patients with mild symptoms at the time were interviewed, photographed, got results, prescribed drugs, and sent the patient home.
“之后我就没有去医院了，在家自行隔离。
"Then I stopped going to the hospital and isolated myself at home.
”这位市民说。
"said the citizen.
后来，荆门城市公共交通都停了，确诊人数越来越多，她看着网上层出不穷的坏消息，每天都焦虑得睡不着，当朋友转给她文章，她会跟对方说，不要再给我看了。
As public transportation stops and more people are diagnosed in Jingmen City, she watches the bad news on the Internet and becomes too anxious to sleep every day.
“武汉这样的省会城市都没有完全保障，那我们小城市更不用说了，”她说，“如果是感冒，原来去看病、做完检查，医生都会确切告知——你只是普通感冒。
"Wuhan is not a provincial capital, let alone a small city," she said. "If you have a cold, you go to a doctor, do a check-up, and the doctor will tell you that you are just a common cold.
但现在，医生是不敢轻易判断病的。
But now, doctors are afraid to judge the disease easily.
”某种程度这加重了人们的担心。
To some extent, this has added to concerns.
19襄阳，买了500个鸡蛋的市民：“我们的防疫措施，远远落后其他城市”1月27日晚，襄阳宣布第二天凌晨封锁进出交通，市民刘一凡从朋友圈看到，晚间的火车站已挤满了人。
19 Xiangyang, who bought 500 eggs: "Our epidemic prevention measures, far behind other cities" January 27 evening, Xiangyang announced the next morning to block traffic, citizens Liu Yifan from friends see that the evening train station has been full of people.
人们正抓住最后几个小时准备离开襄阳。
People are seizing the last few hours to get out of Xiangyang.
襄阳是湖北GDP第2大城市，也是地区重要交通枢纽，但襄阳是最晚被“封城”的湖北核心城市。
Xiangyang is the second largest city of Hubei GDP and an important regional transportation hub, but Xiangyang is the last central city of Hubei.
在1月26日之前，都没有确诊病例出现。
There were no confirmed cases until 26 January.
看着周边城市接连“封城”，刘一凡眼里的襄阳，是最晚收到官方疫情教育的城市（除夕夜），又是最晚“封城”的城市、最晚出现病例的城市。
Looked at the surrounding cities one after another "closed", Liu Yifan's eyes Xiangyang, is the latest to receive official epidemic education (New Year's Eve), the latest "closed" cities, the latest cases of the city.
这导致她周围很多人都认为襄阳很安全，甚至身边还有人喊“襄阳挺住，不要破0”，“襄阳是风水宝地，全国最安全的地方”。
This has led many people around her to think Xiangyang is safe, even around the shouting "Xiangyang hold out, do not break 0," "Xiangyang is geomantic treasure, the safest place in the country."
她认为这一切都太荒谬。
She thought all this was ridiculous.
刘一凡比周围的人都更早意识到疫情的严重性，但每天只能干着急。
Liu Yifan realized the severity of the outbreak earlier than anyone else around him, but he had to worry about it every day.
她了解到，当地的一家上市公司还如期举行了年会，那时武汉还没有“封城”，武汉、襄阳分公司的人在年会上热火地交流。
She learned that a local listed company had held its annual meeting as scheduled, and that Wuhan and Xiangyang branches had not yet closed the city.
截至2020年1月26日24:00，襄阳累计确诊病例36例。
As of 2400 hours on January 26, 2020, 36 cases have been diagnosed in Xiangyang.
1月20日，刘一凡给市政府卫生热线致电，问是否采取防治隔离措施，对方回答：一切听从上面的安排。
On January 20, Liu Yifan called the municipal health hotline to ask if any measures had been taken to prevent quarantine.
1月24号她再次致电，仍然得到类似的答复。
She called again on 24 January and still received a similar response.
“襄阳有605万常住人口，但政府一直没有太大的行动。
"There are 6.05 million people living in Xiangyang, but the government has not taken much action.
”刘一凡对《财经》记者说。
"Liu Yifan told Caijing.
在正式“封城”前几天，政府叫停了部分市内公交线路，关闭了几家商场，但在她眼里管控力度远远不够。
A few days before the official "closure," the government ordered the suspension of some city bus lines and the closure of several shopping malls, but in her view the controls were far from adequate.
“停的线路、关的商场都不是人最多的商场。
"The lines that stop, the shopping malls are not the most crowded shopping malls.
”她说，政府并且没有禁止聚会、没有社区人员上门登记武汉往返人口。
She said the government has not banned gatherings or community visits to register Wuhan commuters.
她的一位邻居从武汉回来后，没有接到上门问询和任何通知，只向所在单位做了报告了。
One of her neighbors came back from Wuhan, did not receive home inquiries and any notice, only to the unit reported.
她所在的小区楼下，还停着很多车牌以鄂A开头的汽车。
Downstairs in her neighborhood, there were cars with a lot of license plates beginning in E E
而她的家乡，襄阳农村，直到26日，才完成村村隔断，武汉返乡人员统计也还没有完成。
And her hometown, Xiangyang countryside, until the 26th, only to complete the village partition, Wuhan returning personnel statistics has not been completed.
据她了解，村里茶馆娱乐场所照常开，多数人都不戴口罩，村政府贴了公告，但是很多人都不知道贴在什么地方。
As far as she knew, the village teahouse was open as usual, most of the people were not wearing masks, and the village government had put up notices, but many people did not know where to put them.
“我更期望能够“封城”，再加大市内管控力度，让我们看到政府要去控制疫情的决心。
"I would have preferred to see the city shut down, with more control of the city, to see the government's determination to control the epidemic.
”刘一凡认为，如果周围的人不能被确诊数字敲醒，至少强硬“封城”和管控，能让他们认识到疫情的严重性。
Mr Liu believes that if those around him cannot be woken up by the numbers, at least tough "closures" and controls will make them realize the severity of the epidemic.
为了25人年夜饭的事，她和家里人吵了一架，他们都当笑话听。
She had a quarrel with her family over dinner for 25 people, and they all laughed at it.
最后年夜饭她没有出席，自己买了500个鸡蛋，等着在家期间慢慢吃。
She did not attend the last dinner, she bought 500 eggs, waiting to eat slowly at home.
20黄冈，回村发现电话信号都没有的返乡者：“就算有了‘解药’，你也不知道什么时候才会轮到自己村子。
20 Huanggang, returning home to find no telephone signals: "Even with the 'antidote', you don't know when it's your village's turn.
”美丽而封闭的山村无论如今的网络速度多快、信息传递多么通达，所在的黄冈罗田县凤山镇大塘湾村依然是全中国最闭塞的村子之一。
Beautiful and Closed Mountain Villages Despite the speed and reach of today's networks, the village of Tai Tong Wan in Fengshan, Luotian County, Huanggang, remains one of the most isolated villages in China.
在这里，数十户人家组成一个塆，几个塆组成一个组，而这十几个组共同形成一个村。
Here, dozens of families make up a plot, a few into a group, and the dozen or so groups together form a village.
在这里，传递消息仍保持着由组长挨家挨户敲门通知的传统方式。
Here, the tradition of door-to-door door-to-door notification by the group leader is still maintained.
潘顺说，他们第一次接到官方通知——告诫大家注意疫情来袭，已经是大年三十（1月24日）的下午。
Pan Shun said they were first officially notified that it was the afternoon of the Chinese New Year's Eve, or January 24, to warn of the outbreak.
此时距离12月29日武汉金银潭医院收治第一例确诊病例已过去近一个月。
It is now nearly a month since the first confirmed case was admitted to Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital on December 29.
“欢迎在外乡亲回家过年”的条幅还来不及撤下与这则通知同时到来的是封路。
"Welcome folks home to celebrate the New Year" banners have not had time to remove and this notice came with the closure of the road.
在没有任何预警下，大塘湾村和凤山镇的道路只用了一个下午的时间就被全部封了起来。
Without any warning, the roads in Tai Tong Bay and Fung Shan were sealed off in only one afternoon.
“几乎没有村民知道路被封住了，只有在大家想去镇上的时候才发现，已经出不去了。
"Few of the villagers knew that the road was blocked, and it was only when they wanted to go to town that they found they could not get out.
”潘顺告诉《财经》记者。
Mr Pan told Caijing.
最新的数据显示，黄冈是武汉以外确诊人数最多的城市，感染人数众多、医疗物资短缺，但黄冈的这阵焦虑并没有第一时间渗透到下面的乡镇。
The latest figures show Huanggang is the city with the highest number of confirmed cases outside Wuhan, with a high number of infections and a shortage of medical supplies.
城市和村之间的空间距离或许并不遥远，人们心理上的距离却十分明显。
The spatial distance between a city and a village may not be far away, but the psychological distance between people is obvious.
村里的人对黄冈和武汉发生的事情只是略有耳闻。
The people in the village only heard a few words about what happened in Huanggang and Wuhan.
直到大年三十，隔壁村传来有人疑似感染的消息，大家才终于意识到事态的严重，而此时，路已经被封锁了，镇上也去不了，口罩和药物自然也就买不到了。
It was not until the New Year's Eve, when word of a suspected infection came from the next village, that people finally realized the seriousness of the situation. By this time, the road was blocked, the town could not go, and masks and medicines were not available.
2020年1月25日，全国各地集结了优质的医疗团队赶赴湖北支援；1月26日，有医护人员在治疗后对病毒核酸检测转了阴性。
On January 25, 2020, high-quality medical teams from all over the country gathered for support in Hubei Province. On January 26, medical personnel turned negative for viral nucleic acid tests after treatment.
但这些好消息对大塘湾村的人而言，并没有带来多大的鼓舞。
But the good news did not inspire people in the village of Tai Tong Wan.
“或许对于武汉、黄冈这样的城市有用，但可能短期轮不到我们下面这些乡镇。
"It may be useful for cities like Wuhan and Huanggang, but it may not be our turn to go down here in the short term.
”潘顺说，大塘湾村所在的罗田县一共70多万人，这70多万人一共只有罗田县一家大医院，乡镇的卫生所条件简陋得可怜。
More than 700,000 people live in Lota County, where Tai Tong Bay Village is located. The 700,000-strong population consists of only one major hospital in Luotian county, and township clinics are woefully inadequate, Pan said.
在这里，十几个村共用一个小商店，这是封路后唯一可以购买商品的地方，但商店没有医疗用品。
Here, a dozen villages share a small shop, the only place to buy goods after the road is closed, but there are no medical supplies.
“在村里生活的人都是留守儿童和老人，他们多数一辈子都没有用过口罩。
"The people living in the village are left behind, children and elderly people, most of whom have never used masks in their lives.
”如今大家唯一的自救方法就是足不出户，呆在家中等待消息。
The only way to save yourself is to stay home and wait for news.
在这个完全没有电话和网络信号的村子里，去不了镇上的村民们几乎是与世隔绝。
In this village, which has no telephone or Internet signals at all, the villagers who cannot get to the town are almost isolated.
“你永远不知道路会什么时候解封，更迷茫的是，就算有了解药你也不知道什么时候才会轮到自己的村子。
"You never know when the road will be unsealed and, even more confusedly, when it will be your turn to know the medicine.
”这位人士说，他习惯把特效药称作解药，这让他能更安心一些。
The person said his habit of calling specific drugs the antidote made him feel more at ease.
21黄石，广州返乡人：“婚礼提前准备了好多菜和肉，都可惜了”黄石三甲医院医生，隔离衣替代防护服、治疗巾当作护颈从广州至黄石的列车1月22日就要发车了，但黄石市民陈学还没决定是否要上车。
21 Huang Shi, Guangzhou returnees: "The wedding in advance prepared a lot of dishes and meat, are a pity." Huang Shi Sanjia Hospital doctor, the replacement of protective clothing, treatment towel as a neck protection from Guangzhou January 22 train to Huang Shi, but Huangshi Min Xue has not decided whether to board the train.
早些时候，他在广州街头徘徊，看见药店里的队伍排到了马路上。
Earlier, while wandering the streets of Guangzhou, he saw lines in the drugstore lining the road.
他也跟着买了两包口罩。
He also bought two bags of masks.
凌晨，他辗转反侧到两点，不停刷新闻，蔓延的肺炎疫情让他想要退票。
In the early hours of the morning, he tossed around until two o'clock, brushing news that the spread of pneumonia made him want a refund.
这个念头很快打消了。
The idea was quickly dispelled.
他说自己是个十分恋家的人，“所以即使最困难、情况变得非常严重，我也想回去和亲人在一起，而不是一个人在外地过年。
He said that he was a very loving person, "so even if the most difficult, the situation has become very serious, I would like to go back with relatives, rather than a person in the New Year.
”从小在大冶长大，后来才搬入黄石，陈学对黄石这座城市的印象是“灰扑扑的”。
"Growing up in Daye, before moving into Yellowstone, Chen's impression of the city of Yellowstone was" gray. "
和别的城市相比，比如深圳的车都极力让着行人，可黄石的车却毫不客气，“好像十年了都没什么变化。
Comparing with other cities, such as Shenzhen, where cars are trying to impress pedestrians, Yellowstone's car is impolite, "as if nothing has changed in a decade.
”他说。
'he said.
作为一座以矿石资源起家的城市，黄石曾经经济实力仅次于武汉，是湖北省第二大城市。
As a city that started with mineral resources, Huang Shi was the second largest city in Hubei province after Wuhan.
但在资源逐渐枯竭的背景下，黄石也逐渐没落了。
But in the background of the gradual depletion of resources, Yellowstone also gradually declined.
列车中途需要在武汉换乘。
The train needs to change at Wuhan.
陈学注意到，武汉戴口罩的人好像还没有广州多，“好像（这里）不是很严重一样。
Chen noted that Wuhan wearing masks do not seem to have more Guangzhou, "as if (here) is not very serious."
”到了黄石，父亲来接他，也并没有戴口罩，当地完全没有紧张的气氛。
When he got to Yellowstone, his father came to meet him, not wearing a mask, and there was no tension in the area.
但他当初设想的最坏的情况很快就出现了：随着武汉“封城”，24号上午十点，黄石也“封城”了。
But his worst-case scenario soon emerged: with Wuhan "closed the city," Yellowstone "closed" at 10 a.m. on the 24th.
先是市区，再接着是镇、县、村，路都陆续被封了。
First the city, then the town, the county, the village, the road has been blocked.
口罩是稀缺的，他每天都需要给家人量两遍体温，洗手、开窗、通风、拖地。
Masks are scarce and he needs to take his family's temperature twice a day to wash his hands, open windows, ventilate and mop the floor.
一直不知道真实的疫情是什么样子，黄石是湖北最后一个通报确诊病例的地市，直到1月25日23:38分，政府一次性公布确诊病例31人、死亡1人。
Huangshi was the last city in Hubei province to report a confirmed case until 23: 38 on January 25, when the government made a one-off announcement of 31 confirmed cases and 1 death.
黄石市防控指挥部相关负责人曾答记者问，大概的解释是，省级认可黄石有自行检测能力花了一些时间，之后黄石将此前的疑似病例一次性报告为了确诊病例，黄石不存在漏报、瞒报情况。
Huang Shi City control command of the relevant officials have answered questions, presumably explained that the provincial recognized Yellowstone self-detection capacity took some time, Huang Shi previously reported a suspected case once in a while in order to confirm the case, Yellowstone did not miss, understate.
在疫情影响下，他的一位亲戚取消了原定大年初四的婚礼。
Under the impact of the outbreak, one of his relatives canceled his wedding scheduled for early Thursday.
亲戚犹豫了许久，在取消的前一天晚上还给陈学的母亲打电话商量，“我好像听到他说，婚礼提前准备了好多菜和肉，最后都可惜了。
Relatives hesitated for a long time and telephoned Chen's mother the night before the cancellation. "I thought I heard him say he had prepared so much food and meat for the wedding ahead of schedule.
”陈学说。
"Chen said.
22黄陂，心系医院前线父亲的儿子：“父亲曾说，千万不要见义勇为，但这次他冲在了最前线。
22 Huangpi, son of his father at the front of the hospital: "Father once said, must not volunteer, but this time he rushed to the forefront.
”夜里的越洋视频是贾树和父亲说话的唯一机会。
The transoceanic video at night was Jia Shu's only chance to speak to his father.
父亲是黄陂人民医院呼吸科的一位医生，在视频里，他身穿多重防护，到休息室摘下口罩，再抽出几分钟跟儿子聊天。
In the video, his father, a doctor in the respiratory department of the Huangpi People's Hospital, wears multiple protective clothing, takes off his mask in the foyer and devotes a few minutes to chatting with his son.
“不要担心。
"Don't worry.
”父亲一直对他说。
"said the father to him.
可贾树心里想的是，“怎么可能不担心呢？”他知道黄陂中心医院现在的情况：发热的患者非常恐慌，他们挤爆了急诊厅，而这极容易造成交叉感染。
But Jia Shu thought, "How could he not worry?" He knew what was happening at Huangpi Central Hospital: the febrile patients were so frightened that they crowded out the emergency room, which could easily cause cross-infection.
父亲和其他医护人员必须不停轮轴转，“太忙太忙，掏手机的时候都没”。
Fathers and other paramedics had to keep their wheels turning "too busy and too busy to reach for their mobile phones."
除夕夜的晚上，父亲回家简单吃了个饭，就继续去了医院。
On New Year's Eve, my father went home for a simple meal and went on to the hospital.
除了累，他更怕父亲被患者肢体攻击或者被撕防护服。
In addition to fatigue, he was more afraid of his father being physically attacked by the patient or torn protective clothing.
口罩和防护服一直是匮乏的，他们的安全没有很好的保障。
Masks and protective clothing have been scarce and their safety is not well ensured.
看着视频里的父亲，贾树百感交集。
Looking at the video of the father, Jia Shu mixed feelings.
他从来没想过，自己父亲这样一个普普通通的大夫（远远比不得钟南山院士这样的国士、泰斗），会猛地被时代浪潮推到防疫工作的第一线。
It never occurred to him that his father, an ordinary doctor (far more than academician like Zhong Nan Shan, Tai Dou), would suddenly be pushed to the front line of epidemic prevention by the tide of the times.
他感慨小人物与大时代之间的巨大张力。
He lamented the great tension between the little people and the great age.
在此之前，他心里父亲的形象甚至并不伟光正。
Before that, the image of his father had not even been impressive.
父亲不过是“俗的不能再俗”的市井小民，和很多家长一样，会教育他要好好赚钱，混社会，“千万不要见义勇为”。
Father is "vulgar can no longer vulgar" of the market, like many parents, will teach him to make good money, mixed society, "do not volunteer.
这次父亲冲在了最前线，贾树没有问父亲为什么做的和说的不同，“我知道他也没有答案，这大概是人的直觉。
Jia didn't ask his father why he did it different from what he said. "I know he doesn't have an answer either.
”（文中所有人名均为化名，感谢提供采访帮助的朋友们。
"(All the names are aliases and thanks to the friends who have helped with the interview.
）【相关阅读】不止有武汉：湖北疫区16城实录（上篇）“武汉肺炎”疫情系列报道▷ 点击图片查看责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Wuhan is not the only city in Hubei province where the epidemic of Wuhan Pneumonia has been reported in a series of photos. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article by Caijing magazine and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
不止有武汉：湖北疫区17城实录（下篇）。
More than Wuhan: Hubei epidemic area 17 cities recorded (next section).
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "不止有武汉：湖北疫区17城实录（下篇）";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "这是一场无法预知开始、但也许可以看到结局的抗击疫情特殊战役，它不仅仅是疫情爆发地汉口的战役，更是武汉及周边，湖北、乃至全国的战役";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;
title: '不止有武汉：湖北疫区16城实录 （上篇）',。
Not only Wuhan: At least 16 cities in Hubei province have been recorded at & amp; # 39; & apos;
subject_name: '财经杂志',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
title: '不止有武汉：湖北疫区16城实录 （上篇）',。
Not only Wuhan: At least 16 cities in Hubei province have been recorded at & amp; # 39; & apos;
subject_name: '财经杂志',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
