没口罩、免租难、上游产业链受阻……疫情笼罩下的中小企业复工太难了。
No masks, rent-free, upstream industrial chain blocked... epidemic under the cover of small and medium-sized enterprises too difficult to return to work.
王晓珊丁宁。
Wang Xiaoxantinin.
南都周刊                      。
Nandu Weekly.
南都周刊。
Nandu Weekly.
有温度的新媒体。
New media with temperature.
上游产业链供应受阻、市场需求不足、现金流日益“吃紧”、防疫能力较弱、召回员工风险高等问题，使得中小微企业复工之路，显得困难重重。
The supply of upstream industry chain is blocked, market demand is insufficient, cash flow is increasingly "tight," epidemic prevention ability is weak, recall high-risk problem of employees, so that the return of MSMEs road, it is difficult.
记者 | 王晓珊 实习生|丁宁 编辑 | 盛倩玉茅台镇一家酒企老板李磊，这几天愁坏了。
Li Lei, the owner of a liquor factory in Sheng Qinyu Maotai, has been sad these days.
酒厂酿酒的酒糟有时限要求，不能放得太久，如果生产跟不上，库房里积压的货卖不出去，就会影响给供应商的周期付款。
The brewery's breweries are time-bound and cannot last too long. If production does not keep pace, the backlog in the warehouse will not be sold, which will affect the cycle of payments to suppliers.
李磊的纠结在于，“既怕开工出现感染风险，又怕不开工耽误生产。
Mr. Li's entanglement is' both afraid of the risk of an infection at work and of a delay in production.
” 和李磊一样发愁复工的中小企业主不在少数，工业和信息化部副部长张克俭在2月27日召开的发布会上表示，中小企业2月26日复工率为32.8%。
Many small and medium-sized enterprises, such as Li Lei, are struggling to get back to work. Zhang Kejian, deputy minister of industry and information technology, said at a press conference on Feb. 27 that the reactivation rate for small and medium-sized enterprises on Feb. 26 was 32.8 percent.
如果按照工信部对220万使用云平台的中小企业监测的数据来计算，目前，还有至少147万的老板处于两难之间——不复工、还是复工？张克俭表示，截至2018年末，中国中小企业法人单位共1807万家。
At least 1.47 million bosses are still caught between not returning to work or returning to work, according to the ministry's monitoring of 2.2 million small and medium-sized enterprises using cloud platforms.
若按此数量计算，实际上没有复工的企业只会更多。
At this rate, the number of businesses that do not actually return to work would actually be much higher.
上游产业链供应受阻、市场需求不足、现金流日益“吃紧”、防疫能力较弱、召回员工风险高等问题，使得中小微企业复工之路，显得困难重重。
The supply of upstream industry chain is blocked, market demand is insufficient, cash flow is increasingly "tight," epidemic prevention ability is weak, recall high-risk problem of employees, so that the return of MSMEs road, it is difficult.
稀缺的口罩“从初三复工至今，厂里一共只发了三个口罩。
Scarce masks "Since resuming work on the third day of junior high, only three face masks have been issued.
” 于清是广西壮族自治区崇左市龙州南华糖业有限责任公司一名工人。
Yu Qing is a worker at Longzhou Nanhua Sugar Industry Co. Ltd., Chongzhuang Autonomous Region.
冬季正是糖厂的榨季，每年的十一月到次年的三月，工厂都会集中榨糖。
Winter is the season for sugar mills, which concentrate on the extraction of sugar from November to March of the following year.
今年于清也不例外，从1月27日复工至今，工厂里的车间一直没停过。
This year in Qing is no exception, from the resumption of work on January 27 to the present, the factory workshop has not stopped.
“每个班8小时，三班倒，中午就在厂子里吃饭。
"" Eight hours a shift, three shifts, lunch at the factory.
”据于清介绍， 为了不影响生产，工厂里几百个人从初三就开始复工，但由于防疫物资紧缺，口罩半个月发一次， 一次发一只。
"To avoid disrupting production, hundreds of people at the factory have been working since the third day of junior high school, according to Yu Qing, but the masks were given out half a month and once a month due to the shortage of epidemic prevention materials.
到目前，工厂发的三只口罩包括一只棉质口罩、一只活性炭口罩，一只蓝色口罩。
So far, three face masks issued by the factory include a cotton mask, an activated carbon mask and a blue mask.
于清对记者说，刚发的蓝色口罩他折叠好了放在兜里，一直没舍得戴。
Yu Qing told reporters that the new blue mask he folded up and put in his pocket, has not been willing to wear.
图为龙州南华糖业有限责任公司给工人发放的口罩 复工进行时，防疫物品必不可少，但是物资考验着急于复工的企业们。
The picture shows the workers of Longzhou Nanhua Sugar Industry Co. Ltd. When the masks were released to workers, immunization supplies are indispensable, but supplies are testing enterprises eager to get back to work.
根据2019年11月公布的第四次全国经济普查数据显示，2018年末，全国法人单位和个体经营户合计从业人员为5.33亿人，其中第二产业2亿人，第三产业3.3亿人。
According to data from the fourth national economic census, published in November 2019, at the end of 2018, there were 533 million employees in corporate and self-employed households, of whom 200 million were in the secondary sector and 330 million in the tertiary sector.
这意味着，如果每人每天一只口罩计算，每天至少需要5.3亿只口罩。
This means that at least 530 million face masks per person per day are needed.
华创证券首席分析师张瑜称，如果在极端情况下，即仅第二产业、医疗工作人员和交通运输业复工，每天也需要2.38亿只。
Zhang Yu, chief analyst at Huacheng Securities, said 238 million units a day would be needed if only the secondary sector, medical workers and the transport industry were to return to work.
为应对防疫物资的巨大缺口，不少车企纷纷改建生产线，转产医疗物资。
In response to the huge gap in epidemic prevention materials, many auto enterprises have rebuilt production lines to produce medical materials.
2月6日，上汽通用五菱宣布联合供应商改建14条口罩生产线，4条为N95口罩生产线，剩余为一般医用防护口罩生产线，日产量预计能达到170万个以上；2月7日，比亚迪精密制造有限公司进行了企业经营范围变更，新增了医疗器械、工业防护用品的研发、生产、销售，进行消毒液和口罩的研发与生产；2月11日，广汽集团第一台口罩生产设备已开始进行安装和调试…… 尽管不断有新产能投产，众多大型国企、民企开始加入口罩生产线，国内口罩销售仍十分紧俏。
On February 6, SAIC announced that its joint supplier had rebuilt 14 mask production lines, 4 for N95 masks and 1.7 million or more per day. On February 7, BYD Precision Manufacturing Co. Ltd. changed the scope of its operations.
2月27日，据国家发展改革委介绍，目前全国口罩日产能达到7285万只，日产量达到7619万只，分别是2月1日的3.4倍、7.8倍，全国口罩的产能利用率已达到105%左右，但这一数字与每天5.3亿口罩的需求量相对比，仍有相当大的差距。
On February 27, the National Development and Reform Commission said that China now has 72.85 million masks a day, with a daily output of 76.19 million, 3.4 times and 7.8 times that of February 1.
许多中小企业既没有能力自己改建口罩生产线，也无力承受购买防疫物资所带来的高额成本，复工在即，如何在防疫物资紧缺的情况下确保员工安全开工，成为了令中小企业主头疼的难题。
Many small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) can neither rebuild their own mask production line nor afford the high cost of purchasing epidemic prevention materials. How to ensure the safe start of work despite the shortage of epidemic prevention materials has become a major headache for SMEs.
工信部产业政策与法规司二级巡视员舒朝晖表示，中小企业特别是一些小微企业，生产和办公条件、人员、资金都比较弱，受到疫情影响也比较深，是复工复产的难点，也是重点，并且企业规模越小，复工率越低。
Small and medium-sized enterprises, especially small and micro-enterprises, are relatively weak in terms of production and office conditions, personnel and capital, and are more affected by the epidemic.
北京大学汇丰商学院教授欧阳良宜2月23日至24日发布的一项企业问卷调查研究也证明了这一观点。
This view is also supported by a survey of enterprises conducted by Ouyang Liangyi, a professor at the HSBC Business School of Peking University from February 23 to 24.
在533家样本企业中，68%的小微企业（企业年收入在500万以下）人员返城比例仅为25%，而年收入达5亿以上的样本企业中，31%的企业复工率已达到75%。
Of the 533 sample enterprises, 68 per cent of those with an annual income of less than 5 million returned to the cities only 25 per cent, while 31 per cent of the sample enterprises with an annual income of more than 500 million had a reactivation rate of 75 per cent.
“望而兴叹”的免租名单“租金是成本中的大头。
"Looking and Sighing" rent-free list "rent is the majority of the cost.
”内蒙古自治区包头市浩克健身游泳健身店店长刘炳辉对记者解释道，健身房、游泳池等占地面积大，租金相对较高。
Liu Binghui, head of the Baotou fitness swimming store in Baotou, Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, explained to reporters that gymnasiums, swimming pools and other areas occupied a large area, relatively high rent.
自1月23日店面关门以来，门店颗粒无收，但房租却一分不少。
Since the store closed on January 23, the store has run out of money, but the rent has been quite a bit.
为帮助企业共同应对疫情，部分地产公司带头减免租金。
To help businesses cope with the epidemic, some real estate companies have taken the lead in reducing rents.
1月28日晚间，万达集团宣布为抗击疫情，万达商管集团将对全国各地所有万达广场的商户，自1月24日-2月25日时间内的租金及物业费实行全免政策。
During the night of January 28, Wanda Group announced that it would waive all rent and property fees for all Wanda Plaza businesses across the country from January 24 to February 25 to fight the epidemic.
随即，大悦城、华润置地等多家商业地产公司均相继宣布对旗下商业项目减免租金。
Immediately, Big Yue City, China Resources Land and other commercial real estate companies have announced that their commercial projects have been reduced or reduced rent.
各地政府也纷纷出台免租政策，帮助部分当地企业解燃眉之急。
Governments across the country have also introduced rent-free policies to help some local enterprises meet the immediate needs.
2月8日，深圳市出台应对新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情的“惠企16条”，对租用市、区政府以及市属、区属国有企业持有物业（含厂房、创新型产业用房、写字楼、农批市场、商铺、仓储物流设施、配套服务用房等）的非国有企业、科研机构、医疗机构和个体工商户，免除2个月租金。
On February 8, 2006, Shenzhen Municipal Government and municipal and district state-owned enterprises (including factory buildings, innovative industrial buildings, office buildings, farm batch markets, shops, storage and logistics facilities, and auxiliary service rooms) owned by non-state-owned enterprises, scientific research institutions, medical institutions and individual industrial and commercial households shall be exempted from paying rent for two months.
2月9日，湖北省人民政府网站发布《湖北省人民政府办公厅关于印发应对新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情 支持中小微企业共渡难关有关政策措施的通知》，对承租国有资产类经营用房的中小微企业，3个月房租免收、6个月房租减半……  然而，记者在采访时了解到，由于中小企业涉及行业种类较多，且承租房屋业主并非国有企业持有物业，有相当一部分中小企业租赁运营商并不在减免租金的名单之列，只能徘徊在帮扶政策之外。
On February 9, the website of the Hubei Provincial People's Government issued the Notice of the Office of the People's Government of Hubei Province on Measures and Measures to Support Small and Medium Enterprises in Resolving the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome.
“太难了！”深圳市荔枝公寓相关负责人蔡琳告诉记者，长租公寓的业主多数属于非国有企业、个人以及股份合作公司等，政府没有补贴，只能靠业主自愿免租。
"It's too difficult!" Cai Lin, director of Shenzhen's Lai Chi Apartment, told reporters that most owners of long-rented apartments are non-state-owned enterprises, individuals and joint stock cooperative companies.
蔡琳形容自己就像“夹心饼干”一样，“一边是湖北籍住户希望长租公寓为他们免租，另一边的业主也等着租金这笔收入，我们只能夹在中间做工作。
Cai described herself as a "sandwich cookie": "On the one hand, Hubei residents want to rent-free apartments for them, and on the other, the owners are waiting for the rent, so we have to work in the middle.
” 据蔡琳介绍，由于深圳外来人口比较多，公寓大部分租户基本都在春节前退租了。
"According to Cai, most of the tenants in the apartments will have to rent out their apartments before the Spring Festival because of the large foreign population in Shenzhen.
受疫情影响，荔枝公寓2月份的营业收入减少了近30%，但除了租金之外的成本却翻了一倍。
Litchi Apartments lost nearly 30 per cent of its operating income in February as a result of the outbreak, but its costs, other than rent, doubled.
“为了给住户消毒、发放口罩等，我们支出了近20万的防疫成本，此外，春节期间给员工发放的是三倍工资，都是净支出，对公司打击太大了。
"We spent nearly 200,000 yuan on vaccinations to disinfect homes and hand out masks," he said. "In addition, tripling the salaries paid to employees during the Spring Festival is a net expense that hurts the company.
”蔡琳无奈地表示，目前公司已经裁员近20%。
Ms Cai reluctantly says the company has cut nearly 20 per cent of its work force.
贵州省仁怀市茅台镇的酒企最近也在陆续复工，当被询问到是否收到当地的减免租金政策，李磊表示：“政府虽然发布了倡议书，提倡企业业主适当减免租金，但最终说了算的是业主，目前我们并没有收到任何相关的租金减免优惠。
When asked if they had received any rent reduction or reduction, Li Lei said: "Although the government has issued a proposal to encourage business owners to offer appropriate rent relief, it is the owners who are ultimately the ones who will receive no rent relief.
”“如果站在出租方的角度思考，他们也在亏损。
'If you think from the perspective of the lessor, they are losing money, too.
”广东省一家人脸识别企业的负责人陈豪认为，如果为了响应号召，企业业主减免幅度会非常小。
Chen Hao, head of a face-recognition company in Guangdong province, said there would be very little relief for business owners to respond to the call.
“可能也就象征性地减免十几天，这对于中小企业而言只是聊胜于无罢了。
"It could be a symbolic 10-day reduction, which is just better for SMEs than nothing.
”陈豪说。
"said Chen Hao.
广东省公寓协会深圳分会的相关人员在接受记者采访时提到，能够租到国有企业物业的企业体量都相对较大，本身抗风险能力较高，反而是在深圳市“恵企16条”之外的许多中小企业受疫情打击大、更需要补贴或减免租金的政策支持。
In an interview with reporters from Shenzhen branch of Guangdong Province Apartment Association, it was noted that many small and medium-sized enterprises outside of Shenzhen's "Article 16" had been hit hard by the outbreak and needed more subsidies or rent relief.
供应链上游受阻 不少企业已于近日陆续开工，但人手缺乏问题刚得到缓解，又走入原材料缺乏的困境。
Many enterprises in the upper reaches of the supply chain have started work in recent days, but the shortage of staff has just been alleviated, and the lack of raw materials into the plight.
湖南省株洲市某生物科技公司本在一周前已经复工，但由于上游原材料供应不足，所需苹果果汁粉库存几乎见底，如今又将面临着停工的风险。
A biotech company in Zhuzhou, Hunan Province, which started work a week ago, is now at risk of shutdown after running out of fresh supplies of raw materials and nearly bottoming out its stock of apple juice powder.
在北大汇丰商学院教授欧阳良宜24日的企业问卷调查中，51.6%的样本企业认为上游产业链供应能力尚未恢复，是影响企业复工的最主要因素。
In a survey of enterprises conducted by Uyang Liangyi 24 at HSBC Business School, 51.6 per cent of the sample enterprises considered that the supply capacity of the upstream industrial chain had not been restored, which was the most important factor affecting the resumption of work.
欧阳良宜认为，中小微制造企业的员工雇佣关系并不如大型企业那样稳定，往往春节之后需要重新招工。
Ouyang Liangyi believes that the employment relationship of MSMEs is not as stable as that of large enterprises, often after the Spring Festival need to re-recruit.
本次疫情中，中小微制造企业将面临人手短缺和原材料不足的双重考验。
In this epidemic, MSMEs will face the double test of shortage of manpower and raw materials.
“我们代理的一些产品，因为上游缺原材料生产不了，现在也只能停售了。
"Some of our products, because they can't be produced from raw materials upstream, can only be stopped now.
”前述人脸识别企业股东陈豪说道。
Chen Hao, a former face-recognition company shareholder, said.
陈豪公司目前主要进行代理销售，目前上游原材料短缺的影响仍未对公司造成较大的影响，但他担心如果情况没有及时改变，未来原材料“物以稀为贵”，价格上扬，导致产品价格上升，会对公司销售造成进一步的打击。
Chen Hao company is currently engaged in agent sales, the impact of the current upstream raw materials shortage has not had a major impact on the company, but he is concerned that if the situation does not change in time, the future raw materials "precious" prices will rise, leading to higher prices, will have a further impact on sales.
“因为公司要拿到成品才能销售，如果上游因缺乏材料无法生产出成品，会直接影响到公司的销售渠道。
"Because companies need finished products to sell, if upstream because of a lack of materials can not produce finished products, will have a direct impact on the company's sales channels.
”陈豪对此解释道。
Chen Hao explained.
被滞后的“软需求”“惨。
"Soft demand" lagged behind "miserable.
”这是上海某墙纸生产厂商负责人描述该企业经营现状时，使用最频繁的一个字。
"That's the word most frequently used by a Shanghai wallpaper manufacturer to describe the company's current operations.
“现在也没人装修，我们就算复工了，生产线也不敢全开，这一个月损失了近2000万。
"There's no one left to fix it, and even if we get back to work, we won't be able to open the entire production line.
” 该负责人表示，由于目前市场需求不足，产品滞销，拥有2000多名员工的公司已经开始裁员。
The director said the company, which employs more than 2,000 people, had already started laying off workers because of insufficient demand and unsold products.
有企业通过裁员应对，有企业则选择停薪留职获得喘息空间。
Some enterprises through layoffs to deal with, some enterprises choose to leave without pay to obtain breathing space.
“我们店全体19名员工都停薪留职了，去年12月的工资还都欠着。
"All 19 members of our store are on leave without pay and we still owe you December's salary.
” 王杰是广西壮族自治区南宁市一家健身房门店的店长。
Wang Jie is the head of a gymnasium store in Nanning, Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region.
去年六月，王杰刚刚从家乡内蒙古自治区来到广西壮族自治区南宁市，踌躇满志的他正准备在新接手的店面“施展身手”。
Last June, Wang Jie from his hometown, Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, came to Nanning, Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region.
然而让王杰也没想到的是，一场突然起来的新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎，让刚刚达到收支平衡的店面再度陷入亏损。
However, to Wang Jie also did not expect, a new coronavirus infection of pneumonia, just reached the balance of the store into a loss.
健身房的暂停营业通知健身房属于人员密集场所，但受疫情影响，王杰所在公司的几百家门店已全部关停近一个月。
Gym suspension notice Gym is a densely populated area, but due to the epidemic, several hundred stores of Wang Jie's company have been closed for nearly a month.
“本来指望在今年的寒假、春节冲冲业绩，现在压根没有收入，房租、水电、泳池消毒等成本每天都在支出，说多了都是泪，不知道什么时候是个头。
"I was looking forward to this year's winter break, Spring Festival rush results, now no income at all, rent, utilities, pool sterilization costs every day, said more tears, do not know when is a head.
”王杰说。
"said Wang Jie.
在王杰看来，虽然目前各地复工正在有序进行，但他所在的健身行业属于“软需求”，复工的次序非常靠后。
In Wang's view, although the resumption of work is now in order everywhere, but his fitness industry is "soft demand", the order of return to work is very low.
根据广西壮族自治区南宁市发布的《南宁市服务业企业疫情防控期间安全有序复工工作导则》，2月10日起，宾馆、餐饮企业、商贸流通企业、批发市场可以复工；2月15日起，为企业生产提供融资、科技咨询、企业管理的企业可以复工；2月20日起，房地产开发企业、房屋网上销售、中介销售等房地产服务企业可以复工。
According to the Guidelines for Safe and Orderly Resumption of Work during the Prevention and Control of Outbreak in Service Enterprises in Nanning City, Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, effective February 10, enterprises providing financing, technological advice and enterprise management for enterprise production may resume work.
然而，体育及健身机构作为“暂缓复工的服务业企业”，仍未有明确的复工时间表。
However, sports and fitness institutions, as "suspended service enterprises," still do not have a clear timetable for the resumption of work.
同属于“软需求”的人脸识别行业前景陈豪表示并不看好。
Chen Hao, also a "soft demand" face-recognition industry, said he was not optimistic.
他认为人脸识别并不是人们当前最需要的服务产品，类似测温等防疫物资才是主流，“大家收入都受到冲击的情况下，可能下半年很多人在人脸识别这块的投入会减少，即使以前有购买意愿的，现在因为钱包‘受伤’，也会尽可能减少支出。
Face recognition is not the most needed service, he said. Vaccines such as temperature measurements are the mainstay. "As incomes all suffer, many people will probably spend less on Facebook in the second half of the year, even if they were willing to buy before, and now spend as little as possible because their wallets are 'injured.
” 陈豪原本估计今年公司销售额能做到2000万，但是因上半年无法开展正常的销售活动，最终销售额会锐减到800万左右。
Chen had expected sales to reach 20m this year but would drop sharply to about 8m as a result of not being able to carry out normal sales activities in the first half of the year.
收入断流，成本却在增加，企业的现金流遭遇巨大的考验。
Revenue outage, but the cost is increasing, the cash flow of enterprises encountered a huge test.
“现在我们还撑得住，但疫情再持续两个月，我们现金流就会非常紧张。
"We can do it now, but if the epidemic continues for another two months, our cash flow will be tight.
”陈豪对记者说道，原本公司打算过完年就开始招聘新员工，但现在受疫情影响，未来不排除会裁员节流。
Chen told reporters that the company had planned to start recruiting new staff by the end of the year, but now the epidemic has affected the company and it is not ruled out cutting jobs and cutting costs.
“这次疫情对企业的考验和对人身体素质的考验一样”，王杰给记者打了一个形象比方， “经营不善的公司就像是有基础病的老年人，在严峻形势的考验下，会很快的被击垮，但现金流较好、实力较强的公司，则会在这波冲击之后留下来，更快地发展。
"The test of the epidemic is the same as the test of a person's health," Wang told reporters. "A badly run company is like an old man with a basic illness who will be knocked out quickly in the face of a severe situation, but a company with better cash flow and greater strength will stay and grow faster after the shock.
” 健身房门店店长刘炳辉对行业未来的发展则较为乐观，他决定等店面重新开张时，以此次疫情中身体素质较好的人不容易受病毒侵扰为宣传点，努力弥补今年前三个月20%的营业损失。
Gym store manager Liu Binghui was optimistic about the future of the industry and decided to wait until the store reopened to try to recoup 20 per cent of business losses in the first three months of the year, citing the fact that people in better health in the outbreak were less vulnerable to the virus.
“人到30了像是在一个十字路口，总感觉有股莫名的焦虑。
"People at 30 seem to be at a crossroads, feeling a sense of unexplained anxiety.
”失眠多日的王杰最近几天重新投递了简历，准备离开苦心经营半年的门店，重新出发。
Wang Jie, who has been without sleep for days, has recently resubmitted his resume, ready to leave the store for six months and start afresh.
（应受访者要求，于清、王杰、陈豪、蔡琳、李磊均为化名）来源｜南都周刊END欢迎分享到朋友圈，如想取得授权请邮件：newmedia@nbweekly.com。
(Respondents requested, Yu Qing, Wang Jie, Chen Hao, Cai Lin, Li Lei are all alias) .Please share your experience with your circle of friends, if you would like authorization, please email newmedia @ nbweekly.com.
如果想找到小南，可以在后台回复「小南」试试看哦~ 。
If you want to find Xiao Nan, you can reply to "Xiao Nan" in the background.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
没口罩、免租难、上游产业链受阻……疫情笼罩下的中小企业复工太难了。
No masks, rent-free, upstream industrial chain blocked... epidemic under the cover of small and medium-sized enterprises too difficult to return to work.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "南都周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "没口罩、免租难、上游产业链受阻……疫情笼罩下的中小企业复工太难了";。
var msg _ title = & quot; no mask, no rent, no upstream industrial chain obstruction... & nbsp; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "还有至少147万的老板处于两难之间：不复工、还是复工？";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; and at least 1.47 million bosses are in a dilemma: never to return to work, or to resume work? & quot;;
var title ="南都周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
