从玩时尚到做口罩，我经历的那些魔幻事……。
From playing with fashion to making masks, I went through the magic...
盛倩玉。
Splendid jade.
南都周刊                      。
Nandu Weekly.
南都周刊。
Nandu Weekly.
有温度的新媒体。
New media with temperature.
20天上线口罩生产线，林芃遇到了很多转产防疫物资的同行，见识了原材料价格一天数变，还见识了借稀缺资源做起诈骗的人。
On the 20-day line of her mask production line the Ariel met many of her counterparts who were concerned with the transformation of her products and saw how the price of her raw materials changed from day to day and saw how her scarce resources were used for her purpose.
他发了个朋友圈：这场疫情，像是一个放大镜，让我们发现，好人是真好，坏人是真坏，蠢人是真蠢，善良的人是真善良。
He sent a circle of friends: the epidemic, like a magnifying glass, let us find that good people are really good, bad people are really bad, stupid people are really stupid, good people are really good.
记者| 盛倩玉编辑 | 小豆元宵节后第三天，林芃还在老家，他觉得自己“实在是坐不住了。
When Ariel was at home three days after the Lantern Festival, he thought she was "really sitting pretty.
”林芃是广州一家纺织产业链投资公司负责人，80后，已经在纺织面料行业摸爬滚打了十年。
Ariel is the head of a textile industry chain investment company in Guangzhou. Ariel has been working in the textile and fabrics industry for ten years.
对于今年什么面料卖得好，哪种面料会流行要多备货，乃至服装行业的潮流趋势，林芃都门儿清，他甚至还和独立设计师品牌合作生产男装。
Ariel works closely with the independent stylist to make her own man-made clothing. Ariel sells very well this year for what she sells well, what kind of material is in fashion and what kind of material is available.
年前的时候，他按照以往的规矩，把该备的货备齐了，该还供应商的钱还清了，就回老家过年了。
Five years ago, he followed the previous rule, the goods should be ready to pay back the supplier's money, back home for the New Year.
没想到的是，一场疫情突如其来，复工遥遥无期。
Unexpectedly, a sudden outbreak of the disease, the resumption of work is remote.
“什么都干不了，不知道怎么办了。
"Nothing can be done, I don't know what to do.
”焦虑啃食着人的神经，终于让林芃决定，“先出来再说”。
"Ariel is concerned to eat her nerves, and finally her decision is to" come out first.
2月11日，他发了一条朋友圈，配上面戴口罩的自拍，然后开了300公里的车，从老家直奔广州，“先看看情况”。
On February 11, he sent out a circle of friends with a self-portrait of wearing a mask and drove 300 kilometers straight from his hometown to Guangzhou.
而此时的他，还不会料到，随后不到20天的时间里，他也变身成为庞大的“口罩转产大军”中的一员，其间，还遭遇了各种让人心跳的“魔幻事”。
At this point, he would not have expected that, less than 20 days later, he also turned into a huge "army of mask conversion", in the meantime, encountered a variety of heartbeat "magic.
2月28日，大庆石化首条口罩生产线投产。
February 28, Daqing Petrochemical first mask production line put into operation.
（图源：人民网）“买不到我就自己做”的豪气广州中山大学附近，分布着几十个大大小小的布匹市场，成千上万的商户、档口聚集于此，组成一片名为“中大布匹市场”的广泛区域，主营各色面料、辅料生意。
There are dozens of large and small cloth markets around Zhongshan University in Guangzhou. Tens of thousands of merchants and stalls have gathered to form a broad area called "Central Blossom Market" which mainly sells fabric and accessories of various colors.
往年，春节特别是正月十五之后，应是制衣厂生产的旺季，但这一次，林芃回到自己位于广州中大布匹市场的公司，却发现“连办公室都封掉了”。
The Ariel went to her company, which is in the middle of the big cloth market in Guangzhou, to find that her office was closed.
广州城空空荡荡，路上看不见车，办公室也进不去，林芃无奈回到住处，考虑着下一步的应对计划。
When the city was empty and her car did not see her car on the way her office did not get in, Ariel went to her house to think of her next plan of action.
此时，他突然得知，自己一位做服装生意的好友也在广州，计划新建防护服、口罩生产线。
At this time, he suddenly learned that a good friend of his clothing business is also in Guangzhou, planning to build new protective clothing, mask production line.
转产口罩、防护服？“如果能做成，可以增加物资供应，也可以让企业先运转起来。
Switch to masks, protective clothing? "If it can be made, it can increase the supply of supplies, but also allow enterprises to operate first.
”沟通后，林芃觉得，自己也可以加入合作。
"Ariel felt that she herself could join the alliance.
事实上，最近一段时间，着手转产防疫物资的，远不止林芃和他的朋友，各式各样的厂家纷纷行动起来，大有“既然买不到，我就自己做”的豪放气势。
In fact, it is not only Ariel and her friends who are working on the transformation of epidemic prevention materials these days. Ariel and her friends are all getting on with her work.
江逸夫的公司2月17日就开始筹备口罩生产线，随后只用了9天时间，就上线了口罩生产线，而他们原本主要生产的，是智能垃圾分类设备。
Mr. Jiang's company began preparing a mask-production line Feb. 17, and spent nine days putting it on line for a mask production line that would have produced intelligent waste separation equipment.
江逸夫告诉记者，“我们接触到的大批环卫工人急需口罩，公司员工自发组织起来分头采购，优先保障环卫工人使用，但这样的方式效率太低，于是公司就考虑自行生产。
"A large number of sanitary workers we have come into contact with are in urgent need of masks," Jiang told reporters. "The company's employees have organized themselves into separate shops to give priority to sanitation workers, but this approach is so inefficient that the company is considering producing its own masks.
”面料、服装，甚至垃圾分类企业纷纷转产口罩，听起来似乎有些“魔幻”？但江逸夫告诉记者，“与智能垃圾分类收集设备相比，口罩生产的复杂性，显然低了许多。
Fabrics, clothing and even waste-sorting companies are switching to masks, which may sound like magic, but Mr Jiang told reporters: "The complexity of mask production is clearly much lower than that of intelligent waste separation devices.
”“口罩生产要保证无尘环境，并且要在恒定的温度、湿度下完成，而生产智能分类垃圾箱的电子车间，正具备这样的能力。
"Mask production needs to be dust-free and done at a constant temperature and humidity, and the electrical workshop that makes intelligent sorting bins has the capacity to do so.
”在当地政府的帮助下，江逸夫公司的口罩生产许可证，在一天之内就特批下来了。
Jiang Yifu's mask-making license was granted within a day with the help of the local government.
当前，各地政府为企业转产提供了积极的帮助措施。
At present, governments all over the world have provided positive measures to help enterprises convert to production.
据国家药品监督管理局副局长颜江瑛介绍，对于医用口罩、医用防护服等医疗器械产品的注册、生产许可和检验检测等实施特别措施，合并审批流程；对于转产生产医疗器械的企业，实行应急审批，依法办理医疗器械注册证和生产许可证，全力满足防疫所需。
Yan Jianying, deputy director of the State Administration of Pharmaceutical Administration, said that special measures should be taken to register, license, inspect and examine medical instruments such as medical masks and protective clothing, and that enterprises that convert to medical devices should undergo emergency examination and approval, obtain certificates of registration of medical devices and production licenses according to law and make every effort to satisfy the needs of epidemic prevention.
而天眼查提供的数据显示，自2020年1月20日至2月27日期间，全国范围内已经有超过6500家企业的经营范围新增了“口罩、防护服、测温仪、医疗器械”等相关业务。
From January 20 to February 27, 2020, more than 6,500 companies added masks, protective clothing, thermometers and medical devices to their operations, according to Skyeye.
其中，不仅有大批原本从事服装、面料生产的企业，也有比亚迪、五菱等汽车企业，甚至还出现了瑞幸咖啡的身影。
Among them, there are not only a large number of original garment, fabric production enterprises, but also BYD, Wuling and other automotive enterprises, even Ruixin coffee figure.
记者检索发现，2月17日，瑞幸咖啡（北京）有限公司经营范围，在原有的餐饮服务等内容的基础上，新增了“零售药品；销售医疗器械一类、二类、卫生用品”等内容。
Reporter found that Feb. 17, Ruixin Coffee (Beijing) Co. Ltd. operating scope, in addition to the original catering services, such as the new "retail drugs; sales of medical devices, category II, hygiene items," and other contents.
瑞幸咖啡（北京）有限公司经营范围变更上设备办资质不易，找口罩“心脏”更难林芃计划上普通医用口罩生产线，“资质还没下来可以先标民用，等资质审核完成再换医用”，林芃说，他们早已提交了资质申请。
Ariel has difficulty in obtaining the right equipment for her new plant. Ariel plans to work on a common medical mask production line until her qualifications have been determined and her qualifications have been fulfilled. Ariel said that her application has already been submitted.
然而，资质、设备只是口罩生产的“必要条件”，却并非口罩生产的“充分条件”。
However, qualifications, equipment is only a "necessary condition" for mask production, but not a "sufficient condition" for mask production.
决定转产后，林芃和朋友利用以往积累的资源，在广州、佛山四处寻找工厂，他随之发现了当前口罩生产中的“最大痛点”——原料。
After her decision to convert her work, Ariel and her friends began to search the plants in Guangzhou and Foshan using the resources that she had accumulated so that she discovered the raw materials which are the "most painful point" in the current production of her masks.
当前，不少口罩生产企业，都是卡在了“原料”这一关。
At present, many mask manufacturers, are stuck in the "raw materials" of this level.
常见的医用口罩，主要是由三层无纺布组成——内层是普通无纺布；外层是做了防水处理的无纺布；中间的过滤层用的是经过驻极处理的“聚丙烯熔喷无纺布”。
Common medical masks are mainly composed of three layers of non-woven cloth - the inner layer is plain nonwoven; the outer layer is a waterproof non-woven fabric; and the middle filter layer is a "polypropylene melt spray non-woven fabric" that is treated with a stop-over.
而问题的关键，就在于这种名为“聚丙烯熔喷无纺布”（下称熔喷布）的过滤材料，也被称为医用外科口罩和N95口罩的“心脏”。
The crux of the matter is that the filter, called polypropylene melt-sprayed nonwoven fabric, is also known as the "heart" of medical surgical masks and N95 masks.
林芃在朋友圈求购熔喷布。
Ariel is looking for melts in her circle of friends.
（受访者提供）当前，整个国内市场熔喷布材料都十分缺乏，对于一些口罩厂家来说，这相当于要生产口罩，却找不到“心脏”。
At the moment, there is a dearth of melts across the domestic market, which for some mask makers is tantamount to making masks without a "heart."
“不是稀缺，是太稀缺了！”2月27日，熔喷布生产厂商江西天滤新材料股份有限公司向记者透露，疫情发生前，熔喷无纺布只是个小众且需求稳定的市场，但目前口罩需求大增，带动熔喷布的需求大幅增加。
"Not scarcity, is too scarce!" Melting fabric manufacturer Jiangxi Tianfilter New Materials Co., Ltd. told reporters before the outbreak of the epidemic, melt-blown non-woven fabric is a small and stable market, but the current demand for masks, led to a substantial increase in demand for melt-blown cloth.
根据中国产业用纺织品行业协会统计，中国非织造布行业的生产工艺以纺粘为主，2018年，纺粘工艺非织造布的产量为 297.12 万吨，在非织造布总产量中占比达 50.09%，而熔喷工艺非织造布占比仅0.90%。
According to statistics from the China Association of Industrial Textile Industry, the textile industry in China mainly produces nonwovens. In 2018, the textile gluing process produced 2.9712 million tons of nonwovens, accounting for 50.09 percent of the total non-woven production and 0.90 percent of the non-woven fabric used in the fusible process.
若熔喷布生产企业提升产能，则涉及新增熔喷生产线的问题。
If the melt-jet production enterprises to increase production capacity, then involved in the issue of the new production line.
金发科技股份有限公司供应熔喷布生产所需的聚丙烯材料，其销售人员向记者透露，“当前熔喷布十分稀缺。
Blonde Technologies supplies the polypropylene materials it needs for its production, and its salespeople told reporters: "At the moment, the spray is scarce.
与口罩生产线相比，熔喷布生产线投入更大，而用于生产熔喷布的高精度模头常常需要进口。
Compared with the mask production line, the melt-jet production line is more expensive, and the high-precision molds used to produce the spray cloth are often imported.
”和口罩机的低成本、易操作不同，熔喷布生产设备的价格动辄超过百万元，且需要对工作人员进行专门培训，产业门槛较高。
Unlike the low-cost, easy-to-operate masks, which cost more than $1 million to manufacture, and require specialized training for staff, industry barriers are high.
而对熔喷布生产企业而言，新建生产线，一方面需要时间和资本，另一方面也涉及疫情过后，新增产能如何消化利用的问题。
For smelter manufacturers, the new production line, on the one hand, requires time and capital, and on the other hand, how to absorb the use of the new capacity after the epidemic.
“我们只接政府的单。
"We only take government bills.
”记者致电天津泰达洁净材料有限公司在内的部分主流熔喷布生产企业，企业方面向记者透露，当前，不少主流熔喷布生产企业由政府统一调配生产，供应前线医护人员，解决疫情时期的应急需求。
"The reporter called Tianjin TEDA Clean Materials Co. Ltd. and other mainstream manufacturers, enterprises revealed that at present, many mainstream production enterprises are coordinated and production by the Government, supply front-line medical personnel to address emergency needs during the epidemic.
“即使是以往一些合作的老客户，现在我们也无法供货了。
"We can't supply even the old customers we used to work with.
”江西天滤新材料股份有限公司表示。
Jiangxi Tianfilter New Materials Co. Ltd said.
而对于在疫情之后新加入的口罩生产厂家，寻找熔喷布，成为他们务必解决的问题。
And for the new mask manufacturers after the outbreak, to find a melting cloth, they have to solve the problem.
熔喷布的“倒爷”市场林芃告诉记者，政府调配之外，也有一定比例的熔喷布货源可以在市场上销售，而具备生产资质的口罩厂家，可以购买熔喷布原料组织生产。
Ariel tells the reporters that in addition to her work the government allocates a certain proportion of her household products to the market and the manufacturers who are qualified to produce them may purchase the raw materials for the smelting cloth to be produced.
“好多人都在找材料，但都不懂这个东西，不知道从哪里买。
"A lot of people are looking for material, but they don't understand it and don't know where to buy it.
”现实中，不少转产口罩的企业厂家属于“半路出家”。
In reality, many enterprises to convert masks manufacturers belong to the "halfway house."
“新人”对熔喷布的各项质量指标一知半解，也不知道该去哪里才能找到生产厂商。
"New people" on all quality indicators of melting cloth, do not know where to find manufacturers.
一开始，林芃通过以往在纺织、面料行业内积累的人脉，四处搜寻熔喷布等生产原材料，在这个过程中，他发现了其中存在巨大的“信息差”，甚至已经形成了一门疫情期间才有的“新生意”。
Ariel began her work by looking for the raw materials which she had already accumulated in the field of textiles and fabrics. In the process she discovered that there was a great "information gap" and even a "new business" which she had during the epidemic.
这是一个庞大的熔喷布“倒爷”市场。
This is a huge melting pot "barn."
工厂生产出来的原材料，出厂的时候是一个价格，但经过了一手、二手、三手、四手、五手甚至六手的数次倒卖，价格翻着番往上涨。
The raw materials produced by the factory were sold at a price, but they were sold several times in the first, second, third, fourth, five or even six hands, and prices doubled.
“这样一帮人，过一手就加一次钱。
Such a group of people add money once every single hand.
“林芃告诉记者，市场确实有需求，倒爷更加剧了这种紧迫感。
"Ariel told the reporters that there is indeed a need for Ariel's work and that her urgency is exacerbated.
此时的熔喷布，已是“一天一个价，每天都在涨。
At this point in time, has been "a price a day, every day in the rise.
”疫情发生前，级别不同的熔喷布每吨价格在3-5万元不等，不同企业可能有所差异，但疫情发生后，部分熔喷布的市场价格甚至达到30万元/吨以上。
"Before the outbreak, the price per ton of spray varied between 30,000 and 50,000 yuan for different grades, with companies likely to differ, but the market price for some of the sprays even exceeded 300,000 yuan per ton after the outbreak.
江西天滤新公司向记者透露，“作为一直从事熔喷布生产的企业，我们有自己长期合作的客户，必须考虑以后的长远合作，所以即使疫情期间，企业也不会把价格抬得很高；但对于一些新进入行业的玩家或是倒爷，价格却是抬得越高越好。
"As we have long-term partners, we have to consider long-term cooperation, so even during an epidemic, companies will not raise prices very high," Jiang told reporters. "But the higher the price for new entrants or bad players, the better.
”“稍微一犹豫，货就没有了。
"If you hesitate a little, the goods are gone.
”“货刚谈好，钱没到，又没了。
"Just as the goods had been agreed, the money had not arrived, and was gone.
”“要是没买到，下次再一问，价格又涨了。
"" If you don't get it, the next time you ask, the price goes up again.
”这样的形势对于做了十年布匹生意的林芃来说，都是第一次遭遇。
"This was the first time that Ariel had been involved in the trade for ten years.
这个时候，对于急需原料组织生产的口罩生产企业而言，买或不买，成为一个极其考验心智的决定。
Buying or not buying a mask-making company that desperately needs raw materials has become an extremely mind-testing decision.
不断地找资源，不断地介绍，说是“朋友”的“朋友”，然后这个“朋友”再为你介绍个“朋友”，谈到最后，最后谈成买卖的人，互相之间可能连面都没见过。
If you are a friend of a friend's, then the friend introduces you to a friend, and finally, the person who finally makes the deal, probably never even met each other.
短短一小时甚至几十分钟内，买家和卖家就要越过信任的鸿沟，当机立断，我是买还是不买？我是卖还是不卖？他是否值得信任？这笔生意能不能利益最大？几十万甚至几百万的货款在一群“陌生的朋友”之间“乱飞”，有人几天之内赚得盆满钵满，有人时时刻刻觉得自己被骗。
Within an hour or even a few minutes, buyers and sellers are about to cross the chasm of trust and decide whether I should buy or not? Am I selling or not? Is he trustworthy? Can the deal be most profitable? Hundreds of thousands or millions of dollars are "flying" among a group of "strange friends," someone making money in a matter of days and feeling cheated.
“这个生意做得真是心虚。
"It's a real business deal.
”林芃说，短短十几天，他仿佛经历了这些年最魔幻的时光。
"said Ariel, within the space of ten days it seems to her that she has experienced the most magical time of all these years.
熔喷布生产厂：一天来几波“倒爷”记者以“熔喷布”等关键词在QQ、微信等平台进行检索，很快就加入了数个打着不同名号的信息交流群。
Molten cloth production plant: In the past day, several waves of "barrage" reporters to "spray cloth" and other key words in QQ, micro-letters and other platforms to search, and soon joined a number of information exchange groups under different names.
但奇怪的是，在这些信息交流群里，熔喷布似乎并没有厂家说得那么“匮乏”。
Curiously, however, among these exchanges, the melting pot does not seem to be as "in short supply" as the manufacturers say.
群里消息不停刷屏，卖家们纷纷以“数量+地点+级别”的方式表示自己“有货”，只要有人询价，就会有大批卖家主动抛出信息，或表示“加我私聊”。
As the group scraped through the screen, sellers began to say "yes" in the form of "number + location + level," and whenever an inquiry was made, a large number of vendors volunteered to send a message or said "I'll have a private chat."
熔喷布真的这么好买么？群中不少卖家表示自己有货出售记者随机添加了其中一位自称“有货”的商家，他给出了熔喷布的价格清单，BEF95级别的25万元/吨，BEF99级别的31万元/吨，并表示“3天发货，全国调货。
A number of sellers in the group said they had goods to sell and randomly added one of the vendors calling themselves "available." He gave a list of prices for melts, 250,000 yuan per ton at BEF95 and 310,000 yuan per ton at BEF99, saying "three days to ship and ship goods across the country."
”记者以购买者身份询问对方是否为生产厂家时，该卖家则表示，自己拿到了中字头的代理权，可让买家直接与中字头签订合约。
Asked if the buyer was a manufacturer as a buyer, the seller said he had the power to act on the letterhead, allowing the buyer to sign the contract directly with the Chinese characters.
记者询问，如果没有政府公函等资料是否可以购买时，对方则回复，“黑市价格数量按照当天情况具体谈。
Reporter asked, if there is no official government letter and other information can be purchased, the other side replied, "black market prices according to the circumstances of the day.
”另一位卖家，在记者询问熔喷布价格后，便将记者拉入了一个微信群聊，此时群中已经有了好几位购买者。
Another seller, after reporters asked about the melt-jet price, pulled the reporter into a microphone conversation in which several buyers were already in the group.
卖家让购买者们直接在群里报出所需要的熔喷布数量，还发布了熔喷布生产线的小视频，表示“剩货不多，预购从速，打完款来签合同拿货”。
The seller asked the buyer to report directly to the group on the quantity of spray needed, and also issued a short video of the production line, saying: "There is not much left over, buy quickly in advance, to sign the contract to get the goods."
群中有购买者表示，要先看公司名称。
Some buyers in the group said they wanted to see the name of the company first.
也有购买者表示“先打款后拿货的不信”。
There are also buyers said that "the first payment after the goods do not believe."
此时卖家则略显不悦的回复，“这种东西，你相信我就有货，不相信，你找其他人。
At this point the seller slightly displeased with the response, "this kind of thing, you believe I have goods, do not believe, you look for others.
”此后，记者又以购买者的身份，在一些信息群中询问货源，一位自称“倒爷”的群友添加了记者，并善意“提醒”，“很多都是骗你的。
"Reporters asked questions about the source as buyers, and a group of people calling themselves" defectors "added reporters and kindly" warned "that" a lot of it was lying to you.
”他表示，自己虽然也是倒爷，但是他是真的有货。
He said he was a bad boy, but he had real goods.
他看不惯群里很多“骗子”，都是为了骗些订金才谎称有货。
He is not used to a lot of "swindlers" in the group, are in order to cheat some deposit to falsely claim goods.
随后，他提醒记者，“如果要买，可以找我。
Later, he reminded reporters, "If you want to buy, you can call me.
”一位熔喷布生产厂家表示，“我们工厂一天几波人来，全是中间人。
"Our factory comes in waves a day through middlemen," says one manufacturer.
口罩生产厂商一次一次被这些中间人加价，吓得都不敢下单。
Mask makers have been repeatedly overpriced by these middlemen, too scared to order.
”半个月时间，林芃见识了层层加价，见识了价格一天数变，还见识了借稀缺资源做起诈骗的人，他们或者销售不合格的熔喷布产品，或者只是为了骗取订金。
"For half a month Ariel saw how the price goes up and the price changes day by day and also saw how her scarce resources are used to do her tricks.
2月22日，林芃在朋友圈转发了一篇文章，内容是“冲上热搜！世界最高速的口罩机广州投产”，但配文却是：这场疫情，像是一个放大镜，让我们发现，好人是真好，坏人是真坏，蠢人是真蠢，善良的人是真善良。
On the 22nd of February Ariel forwarded to her friends an article which read: "Ariel goes to work on the hot search! The world's highest-speed respirator, Guangzhou, put into operation.
疫情之后，口罩产能如何安置？当前，多地企业、单位陆续复工。
After the outbreak, how to put mask production capacity? At present, many enterprises, units have resumed work.
2019年11月公布的第四次全国经济普查数据显示，2018年末，全国法人单位和个体经营户合计从业人员为5.33亿人，其中第二产业2亿人，第三产业3.3亿人。
According to data from the fourth national economic census, published in November 2019, by the end of 2018, there were 533 million employees in corporate and self-employed households, of whom 200 million were in the secondary sector and 330 million in the tertiary sector.
这意味着，如果每人每天一只口罩计算，至少每天需要5.3亿只口罩。
This means that at least 530 million face masks per person per day are needed.
但真正的购买需求或许还会更大，“不能说今天生产一个口罩，就卖给一个人用，就真正的购买来说，一个人起码要准备10个，要考虑储备的数量。
But the real demand may be even greater: "It cannot be said that today a mask is produced and sold to one person. In terms of real purchases, one has to prepare at least 10, taking into account the size of the stockpile.
”进入3月，林芃的口罩生产线开始运转。
"Ariel's mask production line began to work in March.
算起来从2月11日回到广州，到口罩生产线上线，不到20天时间。
Calculated from February 11 back to Guangzhou, to the mask production line line, less than 20 days.
林芃说，新生产线的口罩产能将从20万个/日逐步上升至70-80万个/日。
Ariel says that the capacity of her new production line will gradually increase from 200,000 to 800,000 per day.
他分析，进入3月以后，更多转产口罩或新增口罩生产线的商家也将陆续开工，届时熔喷布的需求量和价格，或许还会有进一步的提升。
After March, he says, more businesses will start producing masks or new masks, and demand and prices may rise even further.
2月25日，中石化发布消息称，为解决口罩核心原材料紧缺的局面，其将投资约2亿元，在燕山石化和仪征化纤建设熔喷布和无纺布生产线。
Sinopec will invest about 200 million yuan to build melt-jet and non-woven production lines in Yanshan Petrochemical Company and Yenshan Chemical Fiber Co., in an effort to address the shortage of raw materials for the mask core, Sinopec said.
其中，燕山石化力争在3月8日部分投产。
Among them, Yanshan Petrochemical Co. Ltd. aims to put into production on March 8.
而未来随着疫情的逐步缓解，口罩需求量也会逐渐下降，届时熔喷布的价格也会逐渐回落。
In the future, with the gradual alleviation of the epidemic, the demand for masks will gradually decline, when the price of melts will gradually fall.
到了那时，这些手里还握有熔喷布的“倒爷”们，或许再难找到人为其“接盘”。
At that time, these hands are still holding the melting cloth "barons," and perhaps it is difficult to find its "contact plate."
至于大批企业新上的口罩生产线，在疫情结束后将如何安置？林芃告诉记者，如果企业能接到1000-2000万个口罩的订单，生产线的投资成本基本上就回来了。
Ariel told reporters that if Ariel gets the order for 10 to 20 million masks, the cost of her investment in the production line will almost certainly return.
所以疫情之后，很多转产企业可能会直接放弃掉新增的口罩生产线。
So after the outbreak, many conversion enterprises may directly give up the new mask production line.
但林芃和身边的一些朋友，还有更长远的规划。
But Ariel and her friends have other plans for the future.
这段时间做起来之后，现在这些设备、车间，以及相关的资质，未来或许可以用在服装生产上，“例如一些婴童服装，或者品质要求更高的服装生产。
After that time, the equipment, workshops, and related qualifications may now be used in garment production, "for example, some baby clothes, or clothing of higher quality."
”（应受访者要求，文中人物为化名）来源｜南都周刊END欢迎分享到朋友圈，如想取得授权请邮件：newmedia@nbweekly.com。
less + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + + + + +
如果想找到小南，可以在后台回复「小南」试试看哦~  。
If you want to find Xiao Nan, you can reply to "Xiao Nan" in the background.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
从玩时尚到做口罩，我经历的那些魔幻事……。
From playing with fashion to making masks, I went through the magic...
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "南都周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "从玩时尚到做口罩，我经历的那些魔幻事……";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; from fashion to mask-making.
var msg_desc = "魔幻的20天";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="南都周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
