疫情下的课外培训：线上线下“冰火两重天”。
Extracurricular Training under Outbreak: "Two Days of Ice Fire" Under the Line.
敖瑾。
O-Jin.
南都周刊                      。
Nandu Weekly.
南都周刊。
Nandu Weekly.
有温度的新媒体。
New media with temperature.
2月16日，百弗英语向学生们发出了教师团队解散的消息。
On Feb. 16, BriefEnglish sent a message to the students about the dissolution of the teachers' team.
“由于一、二月份疫情对公司的打击非常大，我们资金链出了问题，无法再上课了。
"With the January and February epidemic hitting the company so hard, we had a problem with our money and we couldn't go back to school.
”文 | 敖瑾 实习生丁宁编辑 |盛倩玉新冠肺炎疫情影响下的教培机构，“线上”“线下”境况“冰火两重天”。
Not only did O-Jin, an intern with O-Jin, but also a teacher and trainer at its service under the impact of Sheng Qinyu's new crown pneumonia, the situation was "freezing."
线上教培的网络授课平台，此时被大批在家上课的学生们“挤到宕机”；但线下教育机构此时却是乏人问津，复课遥遥无期又错失招生旺季、遭遇学生退费，而陷入了资金链断裂的危险。
The online teaching platform is now being "pushed to downtime" by a deluge of home-schooled students, but offline education is in danger of breaking down the financial chain as it continues to run out of classes and miss out on recruiting season and student refunds.
百弗英语：教师团队解散“2月15日前主动离职，可以获得一月工资的70%；选择不离职的，工资会一直保留到公司有足够资金，或是破产清算时再继续发放。
If you leave your job before February 15, you will receive 70% of your monthly salary. If you do not leave your job, your salary will be held until the company has enough money or you will continue to be paid in the event of bankruptcy
”李明任职的线下教培机构，在2月初给所有员工发出了这样一则通知。
Li Ming's offline training agency sent out such a notice to all employees in early February.
这家名为“百弗英语”的教育机构，主要线下教授雅思、托福、四六级、成人英语口语等课程，成立时间已经超过10年，号称“在全国5大省市布局有35个培训校区，累计服务学员超过10万人”。
The school, which offers courses in IELTS, TOEFL, Level 4 and 6, and adult oral English, has been in existence for more than 10 years and boasts "35 training campuses in five major provinces and cities nationwide, serving more than 100,000 students.
但疫情突如其来，让这些“数字”就此定格。
But the outbreak was so sudden that the "numbers" came to a standstill.
2月16日，百弗向学生发出了教师团队解散的消息。
On Feb. 16, Beverly sent the news of the dissolution of the faculty to the students.
“由于一、二月份疫情对公司的打击非常大，我们资金链出了问题，无法再上课了。
"With the January and February epidemic hitting the company so hard, we had a problem with our money and we couldn't go back to school.
”一名曾有多年教育机构运营经验的业内人士向南都周刊记者介绍，春季本是校外教育机构的招生旺季，但受疫情影响，教育机构失去了春季招生机会，下一个招生旺季要等到秋季。
An industry insider with years of experience in running an educational institution told Nandu Weekly that spring was supposed to be the peak season for enrolling students in out-of-school institutions, but because of the epidemic, educational institutions had lost their spring intake opportunities and the next season would have to wait until autumn.
也就是说，线下教育机构将面临着一整个上半年都没有生源的窘境。
In other words, offline educational institutions will face an entire first half of the year without a source of funding.
开源无望，而投资方的撤资，对百弗英语这样的线下教育机构而言，打击更如同雪上加霜。
Open source is hopeless, and divestment by investors is worse for an offline institution like BaftEnglish.
据百弗英语内部知情人士透露，疫情爆发前，公司本来有投资方，但线下机构受疫情影响被迫关停的状况，让投资方做出了撤资决定。
Before the outbreak, the company had investors, but offline institutions were forced to shut down because of the epidemic, leading investors to divest, according to people familiar with the situation.
百弗英语成都校区一名负责人直言，自己从未想过，线下教育机构会遇到像现在这样巨大的挑战。
One person in charge of the Chengdu campus said he had never thought offline educational institutions would face such a huge challenge.
“线下教育机构复课遥遥无期，越坚持、越迷茫。
"Offline educational institutions are back in session for ever, the more insistent, the more confused.
”超九成校外培训机构经营困难“百弗英语的授课方式基本全部都是线下面授，很少有线上课程，属于‘一条腿走路’。
Over 90 per cent of the out-of-school training institutions have difficulty operating. "The English language is taught almost entirely offline, with very few cable lessons and 'one leg walking'.
”百弗英语一位校区负责人在复盘百弗英语倒闭时，这样总结了公司的业务形态。
One Bafer English district manager summed up the company's business model when the English language failed on its second day of trading.
线下培训全面叫停的情况下，像百弗这样“一条腿走路”、只有线下授课形式的教育机构，处境显得十分被动。
In the case of off-line training, "one-legged", offline-only educational institutions like Bafer are in a passive position.
2月20日，中国民办教育协会培训教育专业委员会在线调研了全国31个省市的校外培训机构，调查结果显示，超过90%的教育机构表示，目前经营存在部分困难或严重困难。
On February 20, the Professional Training and Education Committee of the China Association of Private Education conducted an online survey of out-of-school training institutions in 31 provinces and municipalities.
疫情期间培训机构面临各种困难中，排在前三位的依次为：营收减少、场地租金压力和人力成本过高。
Among the difficulties faced by training institutions during the epidemic, the top three were, in descending order, reduced revenues, pressure on the rental of premises and excessive labour costs.
不同类型机构所面临的困难排位略有差异。
The ranking of difficulties faced by different types of institutions varies slightly.
疫情对经营机构的影响（图片来源：中国民办教育协会培训教育专业委员会）纯线下培训机构受“在疫情期间不能进行线下培训”影响，直接面临“场地租金压力”和“人力成本压力”；与此同时，“线下转线上的压力”也远远高于其他已经具备线上功能的培训机构。
2007-9-25 21: 23 The Impact of the Epidemic on Operating Agencies (Source: China Non-governmental Education Association Training and Education Commission) Pure offline training institutions are affected by "no offline training during the epidemic," directly facing "site rental pressure" and "manpower cost pressure"; at the same time, "off-line pressure" is far higher than other training institutions that already have online capabilities.
营收方面，疫情影响下，有47%的校外培训机构预计2020年上半年的营收比上年同期将减少50%以上。
On the revenue side, 47 per cent of out-of-school training institutions are expected to generate more than 50 per cent less revenue in the first half of 2020 than in the same period a year earlier.
不同模式的机构营收受影响状况不同，受冲击最大的仍是线下机构。
Different models of institutional reception have different impacts, and offline mechanisms continue to be the hardest hit.
具体来看，线下机构中有49.42%的机构预计收入同比减少50%以上，只有0.8%左右预计与去年相比持平或者增加。
Specifically, 49.42 per cent of institutions in offline institutions are expected to see their income decline by more than 50 per cent year-on-year, and only about 0.8 per cent are expected to be equal to or increase from last year.
预计疫情对机构上半年营收影响（图片来源：中国民办教育协会培训教育专业委员会）张兰是深圳一家中小型线下课外培训机构员工，她向记者透露，疫情期间，她所在的教育机构面临学生续费意愿低和招生难的问题。
Zhang Lan, an employee of a small and medium-sized extracurricular training institution in Shenzhen, told reporters that her institution faced low student renewal willingness and difficulties in enrolling students during the epidemic.
但与此同时，机构在南山和福田的两个店面，每月仍产生租金等费用近50万元，员工每人每月上万元的底薪加五险一金等人力成本，让机构不堪重负。
But at the same time, the agency's two stores in Nanshan and Fukuda still incur rental and other expenses of nearly 500,000 yuan per month.
一方面是营收下降，另一方面是各种运营成本并未相应降低，许多机构都面临账上资金不足问题。
On the one hand, the decline in revenue, on the other hand, various operating costs have not been correspondingly reduced, many agencies are faced with insufficient funds on their books.
79%的受访机构表示，账上资金仅能维持3个月以内，8%的机构只能支持半个月以内，13%的机构能够支持3-6个月，只有7%的机构能够支持6个月以上。
Seventy-nine per cent of the institutions surveyed indicated that funds were available for less than three months, 8 per cent for less than half a month, 13 per cent for three to six months and only 7 per cent for more than six months.
一线下课外培训机构运营表示，要保障资金链安全，一般要预留6个月的运营资金，但现实情况是，教育机构一般账面上能支撑3个月左右，就已经算比较理想的状态。
Operations at first-line extracurricular training institutions say six months of operating funds are usually set aside to secure the financial chain, but the reality is that educational institutions generally fare better on paper for about three months.
“如果是单店运营的话，（预留3个月左右的运营资金）倒是没什么大问题。
"If it's a single-store operation, it's not a big deal [to set aside about three months of working capital].
一旦开了连锁店，那点资金根本不够。
Once the chain stores were opened, there was simply not enough money.
”压力之下，线下培训机构不得不采取措施进行自救。
Under pressure, offline training providers have had to take steps to save themselves.
根据调查结果，线下机构应对资金短缺策略的前三大手段分别是：贷款、现有股东提供资金、减员降薪。
According to the survey, the top three responses to funding shortfalls for offline institutions were loans, funding from existing shareholders, and wage cuts through job losses.
张兰任职的机构2月中旬向全体员工发布了疫情期间工资发放调整的通知。
Zhang's agency issued a notice to all employees in mid-February announcing wage adjustments during the epidemic.
通知中，公司承诺不会因疫情的原因而进行裁员和减薪，但为保障现金流，公司目前每月只给员工发放50%的应发工资，剩下50%部分暂缓至暑假正常开课。
The company promised not to lay off workers or cut wages because of the epidemic, but to protect its cash flow, it currently pays 50% of its employees a month, leaving 50% partially suspended until the summer break.
方案暂定实行四个月。
The programme is tentatively scheduled for four months.
学生：课没办法上了还要还贷现实中，还有更多线下培训机构并未能熬过这个冬天。
Student: There is no way to go to class but also to repay the loan reality, there are more offline training institutions did not survive this winter.
破产倒闭的多米诺骨牌，最终传导到了学生身上。
The dominoes that went bankrupt eventually spread to the students.
刘星在百弗试听过英语课后，在机构老师的强烈推荐下，花费6万元，报了最贵的“一对一”课程。
Liu Xing in Bai Fu after listening to English classes, in the strong recommendation of the agency teachers, spent 60,000 yuan, reported the most expensive "one-on-one" courses.
但现在，刘星这6万块钱很大几率是“打了水漂”。
But now, Liu Xing this 60, 000 pieces of money is very likely to be "hit water drift."
他在微信群里看到了一名任课老师发的消息，“课没办法上了，不清楚能不能退钱，因为我也已经是一个失业的离职员工。
He saw the message from a teacher in the microphone group. "I can't go to class. I don't know if I can return the money, because I am already an unemployed employee.
”百弗英语学员与老师的沟通（图片由受访者提供）在学员的反复追问下，百弗英语给出了一个处理方案：百弗目前无法上课也不能退钱，但可以转到另一家“牛学教育”，以多人小班的方式继续上课。
In response to repeated questions from the students, the English-speaking class offered a solution: it was unable to attend classes or return money, but could move on to another "cattle education" and continue classes in small groups.
但这一方案并未能让学员满意。
However, the scheme did not satisfy the participants.
还有两年课程未完成的王飞认为，机构“出此下策”，对学员并不负责，“如果同意签转，我们以后既不能找百弗英语，也无法找牛学教育维权。
Wang Fei, who also had two years of unfinished courses, said the agency was "ill-advised" and was not responsible for the students. "If we agreed to sign the transfer, we would not be able to find either English or cattle education rights protection.
”百弗英语处理问题的态度也让王飞不满。
Mr Wang was also displeased by the way Bafer dealt with the problem.
“如果我不同意转课，机构就认定我是自动放弃剩余课程。
"If I do not agree to a transfer, the organization will assume that I am automatically abandoning the remaining courses.
这跟我们跟百弗签订的合同完全不符。
This is totally at odds with the contract we signed with hundred.
”多名学员提供的入学合同清晰显示，“未经乙方同意，甲方不得将乙方课程转让给其他机构或交由其他机构实施教学……甲方因自身原因要求解除本合同的，甲方须退还乙方剩余学费。
The enrollment contract provided by many students clearly indicates that Party A shall not transfer Party B's courses to any other institution or turn them over to another organization for teaching without Party B's approval.
”学生与百弗英语签订的合同（图片由受访者提供）现金预缴学费的学员面临退费难，而选择了贷款缴纳课程款的学员，则面临没课上还要继续还款的困境。
Students with a contract with BriefEnglish (provided by respondents) face the prospect of having to pay back their tuition fees in cash, while students who choose to pay for their courses face the dilemma of continuing to pay back when they are not in class.
叶鑫目前已经停课近一个月，但还需在“百度有钱花”APP上为课程学费按月偿还贷款。
Yip Xin has been closed for nearly a month, but still needs to pay the course fees on the "Baidu rich flowers" APP monthly repayment.
据他介绍，自己报名时，被推荐使用指定平台贷款，百弗英语称这样可以减免学费2000元。
When he signed up, he said, he was recommended to use a designated platform loan, which he said would reduce tuition fees by 2,000 yuan.
如果叶鑫的情况得不到处理，他面临着没课上但要继续还贷两年的可能，每月还款1667元。
If Yip Xin's situation is not addressed, he faces the possibility of not attending school but continuing to repay the loan for two years, paying 1,667 yuan per month.
学员贷款信息（图片由受访者提供）目前，退费无门的学生们组建了一个微信群，试图通过与校区沟通、拨打市长热线、向市场监督局投诉等多种方式维权。
Student Loan Information (Photo provided by the interviewee) At present, students with no access to refunds form a micro-group that tries to assert their rights by communicating with the school district, calling the mayor's hotline and filing a complaint with the Market Supervisory Authority.
现在，这个群里已经聚集了将近800名百弗学员。
There are now nearly 800 students in the group.
对于“跑路”的质疑和学生的退费诉求，百弗英语股东熊淑仪曾在电话采访中表示，正在积极寻求解决方案，并没有失联。
Xiong Shu-yee, a BriefEnglish shareholder, said in a telephone interview that she was actively seeking a solution and was not disconnected.
“我没有跑路，虽然因为经济困难给同学造成了一些困扰，但我们在积极解决。
"I didn't run, and although the financial difficulties caused some problems for my classmates, we were actively trying to solve them.
”熊淑仪称，自己每天晚上跟同学沟通到（凌晨）两点钟，不管遇到什么困难，都要积极地站出来面对。
"Xiong Shuyi said that she communicated with her classmates every night until two o'clock and had to come forward to face any difficulties.
但截至3月3日，百弗英语多个校区的学员，仍未收到任何解决方案或补偿措施的通知。
But as of March 3, students at various BEF English campuses had not been notified of any solutions or compensation measures.
（应受访者要求，文中人物均为化名）来源｜南都周刊END欢迎分享到朋友圈，如想取得授权请邮件：newmedia@nbweekly.com。
less + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + + +
如果想找到小南，可以在后台回复「小南」试试看哦~ 。
If you want to find Xiao Nan, you can reply to "Xiao Nan" in the background.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情下的课外培训：线上线下“冰火两重天”。
Extracurricular Training under Outbreak: "Two Days of Ice Fire" Under the Line.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "南都周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "疫情下的课外培训：线上线下“冰火两重天”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; offline.
var msg_desc = "​2月16日，百弗英语向学生们发出了教师团队解散的消息。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; On February 16, Brewer English sent its students word that its team had disbanded.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="南都周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
