“我们住在一个家，却无法一起见面”。
"We live in the same house, but we can't meet."
吴美芬。
Wu Mei Fen.
云林街十七号                      。
17 Yunlin Street.
云林街十七号。
17 Yunlin Street.
这场战役 我们与你们同在。
We are with you in this battle.
看到“7例肺炎”的新闻后，小熊赶回了武汉。
Seeing the news of "seven cases of pneumonia," the bear rushed back to Wuhan.
但妈妈还是病倒了。
But Mom fell ill.
目前居家隔离的妈妈病情有所好转，可小熊还是一刻不敢放松。
At present, the mother's condition of isolation in the home has improved, but the bear is still afraid to relax.
文| 吴美芬1月1日，家住武汉的小熊在贵阳出差。
Wu Mei-fen, a young bear resident in Wuhan, was on business in Guiyang on January 1.
这天他第一次听说了“新型肺炎”，新闻里说武汉有7个人患上了这个病，有人传闻是“非典”。
He first heard about the "new pneumonia," the news that Wuhan seven people have the disease, some people rumored to be "SARS."
1月7日，他担心父母，跟公司申请提前回到武汉。
On January 7, fearing for his parents, he applied with the company to return to Wuhan earlier.
两周后，母亲病发急需抢救。
Two weeks later, the mother was in urgent need of rescue.
在医院，他亲历了新型冠状病毒肺炎“人传人”的消息公布之初，医院的真实状况。
In the hospital, he personally experienced the new coronavirus pneumonia "person-to-person" at the beginning of the announcement, the hospital's real situation.
2月4日，我联系上他，听他讲述为母亲求医的过程。
On 4 February, I contacted him and listened to his account of the process of seeking medical treatment for his mother.
张母至今未确诊，居家隔离治疗，病情有所好转。
Zhang mother has not been diagnosed so far, isolated treatment at home, the condition has improved.
以下是小熊的自述：“非典”？1月1日，我在贵阳看到一条新闻，说武汉华南海鲜市场有7个人患上了新型肺炎。
On January 1, I saw a news report in Guiyang that seven people at Wuhan South China Seafood Market had contracted the new pneumonia.
接着就有传闻说是“非典”，后来又出了辟谣新闻，说那些患者已经被隔离了，大家很安全。
Then there was the rumor that it was SARS, and then a rumor spread that the patients had been quarantined and safe.
我担心父母，连年会都没参加，跟公司申请提前了6天回来。
Worried about my parents, I didn't attend the annual meeting and applied to the company six days earlier.
我是12日中午在贵阳北站坐的车，下午回到了武汉。
I took the bus at Guiyang North Station at noon on the 12th and returned to Wuhan in the afternoon.
隔天，我们正在吃晚饭，妈妈突然不舒服，说前几天一直发烧咳嗽，疲惫乏力，不想吃饭。
The next day, we were having dinner, my mother suddenly uncomfortable, said the other day has been a fever and cough, tired and tired, do not want to eat.
当时我没感觉到问题的严重性。
I didn't feel the seriousness of the problem at the time.
一是因为回到武汉没看到大家戴口罩，二是我们家住在汉口，离华南海鲜市场比较远，也没去过那边。
One is to return to Wuhan did not see everyone wearing masks, and the other is that we live in Hankou, far from the South China seafood market, has not been there.
1月14日，妈妈自己去第一医院做检查，医生诊断是支气管炎，开了3天针。
On 14 January, the mother went to hospital No. 1 for her own examination, which was diagnosed as bronchitis and prescribed for three days.
三天针打完后病情没有好转，发热更严重了， 38度往上。
Three days after the injection did not get better, fever more serious, 38 degrees upward.
我感觉情况不对，1月17日又让她去第一医院拍了CT，还做了血检。
Feeling wrong, I sent her to the first hospital for a CT scan and a blood test on January 17.
这次医生诊断为肺炎，说是从支气管炎发展的。
This time the doctor diagnosed pneumonia, said to have developed from bronchitis.
医生又给她开了一天针，打完还是没效果，体温一直在38.6度左右。
The doctor gave her another day's injection, but the result was still no effect, the temperature has been around 38.6 degrees.
医生建议住院，让我们去住院部问一下有没床位。
The doctor suggests hospitalization. Let's go to the inpatient department and ask if there are beds available.
我先到13楼，护士说有40多个人在排队。
I got to the 13th floor, and the nurse said there were 40 people in line.
我又去14楼，护士说登记一下，有100多人在排队，等有人出院，才能住进去。
I went to the 14th floor, and the nurse said to register that there were more than 100 people in line waiting for someone to leave the hospital.
我看到这个状况，意识到问题严峻，骑着电动车跑遍了三医院、四医院、武昌军区总医院，都说床位满了，要排队。
I saw the situation, realized that the problem is serious, riding electric cars around the three hospitals, four hospitals, Wuchang Military District General Hospital, said the beds are full, have to queue.
1月23日，我爸陪妈妈去协和医院，做了CT和血检，医生基本确定是新型冠状病毒感染。
On January 23, my father accompanied my mother to Concoronavirus Hospital, did a CT and blood test, the doctor basically confirmed that it is a new coronavirus infection.
当天，新型冠状病毒肺炎“人传人”的消息已经公布，全市医院呼吸科住满了人，还有很多人在排队。
On the same day, the new coronavirus pneumonia "person-to-person" has been announced, the city's hospital breathing department full of people, there are many people queuing.
我妈妈那时咳嗽已经很严重，没有床位住不了院，只好回家。
My mother had such a bad cough that she could not live in a hospital without a bed and had to go home.
人满为患的医院1月23号下午，妈妈突然呼吸困难、喘不过气。
Overcrowding Hospital On the afternoon of January 23, my mother was out of breath and out of breath.
那天武汉开始封城，公交、地铁都停运，出租车也打不到。
Wuhan began to close that day, the public transport, the subway are stopped, taxis can not be opened.
我同时用爸爸、妈妈还有我的手机拨打了120，大概7分钟后电话接通。
I dialed 120 with my dad, my mom and my cell phone, and I'll call you back in about seven minutes.
对方问我，联系好医院没？我说没有，他们说没联系好没法来接。
The other side asked me if I could get in touch with the hospital? I said no, they said they couldn't pick it up.
我不断地恳求，说了很多好话，他们才答应来。
I kept begging and saying a lot of nice things before they agreed to come.
救护车从汉阳出发20分钟左右到我家。
The ambulance will arrive at my house about 20 minutes from Hanyang.
车上一共有4个护士，两男两女，没有医生。
There were four nurses, two men and two women, and no doctor.
去医院的路上，救护车的车窗一直开着，冬天风很大，很冷，我妈妈一直在咳嗽。
On the way to the hospital, the ambulance window remained open. It was windy and cold in winter. My mother had been coughing.
我问护士，能不能给我妈妈吸氧，他们不愿意给，原因是妈妈一直在咳嗽，他们怕飞沫传播造成感染。
I asked the nurse if they could give my mother oxygen. They didn't want to give it to her because she had been coughing and they were afraid of infection caused by foaming.
我就让他们帮忙把车窗关上了。
I asked them to help close the window.
有一个护士给了我几个电话投诉卫生部门，我打了2、3个，这些部门都推来推去，没说谁负责。
One of the nurses called me several times to complain about the health department, and I called two or three, all of which pushed back and forth without saying who was responsible.
救护车只好先把我们送到古田三路的普爱医院西院区，去到那发现医院的门被封闭了，门诊、急诊的门都上了锁，说是在改造。
The ambulance had to take us to the west courtyard of Pu Ei Hospital on Kutian Road, where the door of the hospital was closed and the doors of the outpatient clinic and emergency department were locked and said to be in a state of renovation.
下午5点左右，救护车带着我们去到协和医院，此时，协和医院正好在转移一批新型冠状病毒感染的病人，楼下很多救护车，护士让我们赶快走，说急诊科没有医生了。
At about 5 p.m., the ambulance took us to the Concoronavirus Hospital, which was just transferring a group of patients infected with the new coronavirus. There were ambulances downstairs and the nurse told us to go.
最后去了红十字会医院，一进去，大厅塞满了人，左边的发热门诊跟右边的急诊都塞满了，只留下一条很小的道，像集市或者过节的步行街，人挤人，有人走过大家都要让一下的那种。
At last he went to the Red Cross hospital, and as soon as he entered, the hall was full of people, the left fever clinic and the emergency department on the right were all packed up, leaving only a small passage, like a market or a pedestrian street for the holidays, crowded, people passing by the kind that everyone had to concede.
缴费和打针的人很多，排队很长，可以说是绕了篮球场一圈。
A lot of people pay the bills and get shots. They line up long enough to walk around the basketball court.
病人坐在板凳上，大多数是中老年人。
Patients, mostly middle-aged and elderly, sit on benches.
红十字医院门诊我们转了一圈，才在电梯旁找到一个位置给妈妈坐下来。
Red Cross hospital clinic we took a turn before we found a seat next to the elevator to sit down for my mother.
爸爸挂完号后，只有两个医生看病，我和我爸分别排队，我排的这个医生本来是6点下班的，一直到7点都还没走，后来他实在看不动了，就说后面的人不用排了，又排了6个人才轮到我们，这时他都还没下班。
When Dad finished hanging up, there were only two doctors to see. My father and I were standing in line. The doctor on my platoon, who was off duty at 6: 00, didn't leave until 7: 00.
排在我们前面的那个病人属于轻症病人，他想打针但医生建议他回家隔离吃药，避免交叉传染。
The patient in front of us was a mild case. He wanted an injection but the doctor advised him to go home and take the medicine in isolation to avoid cross-infection.
我妈妈属于重症，开了针。
My mother is in serious condition and has been given an injection.
我们是6点左右挂完号，一直到第二天早上7点多才打上针，排了十几个小时队，都没有人来过大厅消毒，只有两台空气净化器在运转，一边一个。
We hung up around 6: 00 a.m. and didn't get a shot until around 7: 00 in the morning. After a dozen hours of queuing, no one came to disinfect the hall, and only two air purifiers were operating, one on each side.
我一晚上都坐着，没合过眼，人太多，很吵，我感到特别无助。
I've been sitting all night, not closing my eyes, too many people, very noisy, I feel particularly helpless.
其他的病人和家属也一样。
The same is true for other patients and their families.
我看到有的家属因为插队打了起来，有的病人对着护士吼：“我已经排了24个小时了，还没打上针”，还有人排着队突然就晕倒了。
I saw some family members jump in and yell at the nurse, "I've been waiting for 24 hours, I haven't had an injection yet," and others stand in line and suddenly faint.
很多人在跟护士抱怨。
Many people are complaining to the nurse.
我很同情她，因为她也在打电话求助。
I sympathized with her because she was also calling for help.
印象最深刻的是，我亲眼看到一个新型冠状病毒感染的病人去世。
Most impressively, I witnessed the death of a patient infected with a new coronavirus.
我记得是1月24日凌晨，我排队坐得腰酸背疼，起来走动了一下。
I remember standing in line in the early morning of January 24, feeling my back ache and getting up and walking.
走到一个诊疗室门口，里面没有医生，队伍很长。
There was no doctor in it. There was a long line.
问别人，他们说医生去抢救了。
Ask others. They say the doctor went to rescue them.
我就往抢救室走，到了门口，我看到有个患者躺在抢救室门外地板的担架上，一个医生和两个护士正在做胸部按压抢救，另外有一个护士急匆匆跑进药房又拿着点滴包跑过来。
I headed for the emergency room and when I got to the door, I saw a patient lying on a stretcher on the floor outside the emergency room. A doctor and two nurses were doing chest compressions.
还有个人拉住她问了个问题，她很急地回了句“现在没时间回答”。
Another man pulled her to ask a question, and she replied in a hurry, "There's no time to answer now."
当时，抢救室门外，有很多在输液的患者和排队的家属。
At the time, outside the emergency room, there were a lot of infusion patients and queues of family members.
医生特别用力地往下压，可是那个病人一点反应都没有，医生一直按一直按，最后还是抢救无效。
The doctor pressed down very hard, but the patient didn't respond at all. The doctor kept pressing the button until the rescue failed.
一线医护人员真的很值得尊敬，他们冒着生命危险去拯救武汉的患者，我能感受到他们的真心。
First-line health care workers really deserve respect, they risk their lives to save Wuhan patients, I can feel their sincerity.
因为没有试剂检测确诊，不能住院，打完针我们就回家了。
We couldn't be hospitalized because there was no reagent test, so we went home after the injection.
艰难的求医之路我们开始做隔离措施，妈妈睡主卧，爸爸睡客厅，我睡次窝，并且互相说好，没什么事都不要出房间门。
The Difficult Way to Seek Healthcare We began seclusion, with my mother sleeping in the living room, my father sleeping in the living room, and saying good night to each other.
1月25日早上，妈妈说自己没发热，只是行动时还是会喘气、费力，进食也好了点，精神看上去比之前好很多。
On the morning of January 25, my mother said she had no fever, but she would gasp and struggle, eat better and look much better than before.
但过了两天，我妈还是觉得呼吸困难，想去医院看看。
But after two days, my mother was still having difficulty breathing and wanted to see the hospital.
这时国家政策规定患者去医院要经过社区。
State policy then requires patients to travel through the community to the hospital.
我打电话给社区登记了情况。
I called the community to check in.
两个小时后他们回电话，让我去卫生所看一下。
They call back in two hours and tell me to go to the clinic.
我去到门口，看到有辆救护车接走了一个病人。
I went to the door and saw an ambulance pick up a patient.
卫生所里面不用挂号，轮两三个就到我了，可医生说这看不了，建议我去泰康医院或者汉口医院。
Health clinic do not need to register, two or three rounds to me, but the doctor said that this can not see, suggested that I go to Taikang Hospital or Hankou Hospital.
但卫生所没车，去不了。
But the clinic doesn't have a car.
反复联系社区后，说可以让我妈妈跟其他人一起坐一辆车去，但不会把家属送回来，我就让爸爸跟着去，想着晚些时候可以开电瓶车去把爸爸接回来。
After repeatedly contacting the community, I said my mother could take a car with the others, but I wouldn't send my family back, so I asked Dad to come with me, thinking about driving the battery car to get Dad back later.
他们去的是浦爱西院，到了之后，爸爸给我打电话说，医院不给37.3度以下的人看病，我妈妈当时的体温是37度，没有发热，医院不肯给她看。
They went to the Western Pu Ai courtyard, and when they arrived, my father called me and said that the hospital did not treat people under 37.3 degrees. My mother's temperature was 37 degrees and there was no fever.
没办法，我就骑着电动车去把妈妈接回来。
I can't help it. I'm riding an electric car to get my mom back.
那时是晚上7点多，去的路上，马路空荡荡，我完全可以在快车道上骑行。
It was past seven in the evening, and on the way there was no road and I could have ridden in the fast lane.
半路遇到一个老爷爷用轮椅推着一个老奶奶，走在通往医院的路上。
Halfway down the road, I met an old grandpa wheeling an old woman down the road to the hospital.
冬天晚上好冷，没有人会在这个时候出来，我想他们是去看病，没有车只能走路去。
Winter evening is so cold, no one will come out at this time, I think they are going to see a doctor, no car can only walk.
我妈还有我在身边，他们只能是两个老人相依为命，看着很心酸，很可怜。
My mother and I around, they can only be two old people together, looking very sad, very poor.
空无一人的街道禁止交通，对于子女不在身边又不会开车的老年人来说，太残酷了。
The empty streets are closed to traffic. It's cruel for the old people who can't drive without their children.
之前，我爸妈去医院叫出租车，司机都不肯接，说上面有规定，不接送咳嗽病人。
Before, my parents went to the hospital to call a taxi, the driver refused to accept, said there are rules above, do not carry coughing patients.
这简直是把人往死里逼，就好像是在说：你只能是靠自己，你能活下来就能活，活不下来，我也没有办法。
It was like saying, You can only live on your own, you can live, you can't live, I can't help it.
回来时，我给爸爸扫了一辆共享单车，6公里的路，我骑了半个小时，我爸骑了40分钟。
When I got back, I cleaned my dad a shared bike, 6 kilometers away, I rode half an hour, and my father rode 40 minutes.
天特别冷，我冻得鼻涕直流，把口罩的上半部分都浸湿了，还拿纸巾擦了鼻涕。
It was so cold that I had a runny nose, soaked the upper part of my mask and wiped my nose with a tissue.
妈妈坐在后面，我都无法想象她冻得有多难受，好担心她冻发烧。
Mother sat in the back and I couldn't even imagine how cold she was. I was afraid she might have a fever.
1月27日后，妈妈再没去过医院。
After January 27, my mother never went to the hospital again.
她在家吃一种名叫阿斯美的药，医院医生开的，说是治咳嗽和哮喘。
She took a medicine called Asme at home, prescribed by a doctor at the hospital, for cough and asthma.
吃完后，我自己又去社区卫生院开了两瓶，45元一瓶，共90元。
After eating, I went to the community health center opened two bottles, 45 yuan bottle, a total of 90 yuan.
她也没再发热，状态有所好转。
She hasn't had any more fever. She's getting better.
除了偶尔出去买菜，我都不出门。
I don't go out except to go shopping occasionally.
我是一个武汉市公民，也想为武汉控制疫情做点事情。
I am a citizen of Wuhan, also want to do something for Wuhan control epidemic situation.
直到现在，我妈都没得到试剂做核酸确诊，只是医生口头说是新型冠状病毒感染。
Until now, my mother did not get a reagent to do nucleic acid diagnosis, only the doctor said orally is a new coronavirus infection.
虽然不发热了，但只要有一天我妈妈没确诊，没痊愈，我一天都不能放松，都会提心吊胆。
Although not feverish, but as long as one day my mother did not diagnose, not recovered, I can not relax all day, will worry about.
就像随时准备上战场的人，我很怕她突然哪天又发烧或呼吸困难。
Like someone ready to go to war, I'm afraid she'll suddenly have a fever or have trouble breathing.
现在求医的流程太漫长，如果妈妈突然发热，我只能骑电动车带她去医院。
It's a long process now, and if my mother suddenly gets hot, I have to take her to the hospital by electric car.
但如果是需要抢救的情况，我怎么办？现在120、110都需要排队。
But what should I do if I need to be rescued? Now 120, 110 need to stand in line.
等走完这些流程，救护车来的那一刻，病人也许去世了。
By the time these procedures are completed and the ambulance arrives, the patient may be dead.
小熊妈妈的检查结果未来会怎样？我也想过，如果某一天被自己感染了，怎么办？我的家人谁来照顾。
What will happen to Mama Bear's test results? I also thought, what if I get infected one day? My family who will take care of it.
我一直在跟自己说，不能倒下。
I've been telling myself I can't fall.
每时每刻我都很注意，减少感染的概率，没有医用酒精，就经常洗手、换口罩，外出回来会把所有衣服换掉。
I always pay attention to reduce the probability of infection, no medical alcohol, often wash hands, change masks, go out will change all clothes.
武汉基本买不到医用酒精，不可能像网上说的那样这里喷喷，那里喷喷。
Wuhan can not buy medical alcohol, it is impossible to spray here, where spray.
我把自己的洗漱用品拿到阳台洗漱，凑合着过。
I took my toiletries out to the balcony to wash and make do.
妈妈除了上厕所，也不出房间，由爸爸给她送吃的。
Mom goes to the toilet, she doesn't go to the room, and Dad brings her food.
这些天，我们一家三口，住在一个家，却没有过三个人一起见面的时候，有事情就通过电话说。
These days, our family of three, living in a home, but no three people together to meet, something on the phone to say.
我一直在关注政府出台的措施和政策，各种途径都做去登记。
I have been following the measures and policies that the government has put in place, and every avenue has been registered.
今天我还在一个叫做“武汉微邻居”的公众号做了登记，后来有人打电话来询问一下情况，也就没了下文。
Today, I registered with a public phone number called "Wuhan Micro Neighbor," and then someone called to ask about the situation, and there was no follow-up.
妈妈生病后，我在微博上发了一些视频和言论，有人说我造谣。
After my mother got sick, I posted videos and comments on Weibo. Some people said I was making a rumor.
如果我是造谣，他们可以举报，没必这样抨击。
If I'm a rumor, they can report it, they don't have to criticize it like that.
我没有精力去回应他们。
I have no energy to respond to them.
作为当事人，作为武汉人，我在微博上发声，是希望看到政府有更好的决策，把床位供应起来，把核酸检测放出来，让大家都能得到确诊，得到救助，这是我最想看到的。
As a party, as a Wuhan citizen, I speak on Weibo in the hope of seeing the government make better decisions, making beds available, releasing nucleic acid tests, and getting help and diagnoses, which is what I most want to see.
生病后，我妈妈特别沮丧，特别没有信心，那天在救护车上，她有说过：“算了，不看了，死了算了”。
When she got sick, my mother was very depressed and had no confidence. In the ambulance that day, she said, "Forget it, forget it, die."
很悲观。
Pessimistic about it.
我特别能理解，因为她被病魔折磨得很痛苦，无论是身体还是精神，都很绝望。
I particularly understood that she was suffering from the disease and was in despair, both physically and mentally.
但我还是努力鼓励妈妈，一直跟她讲不管多严峻，一定要有活下去的信心。
But I still try to encourage her mother, always told her no matter how severe, must have the confidence to live.
一定要努力进食，负能量越多，对病情是没有帮助的。
Be sure to eat hard. The more negative energy you have, the less helpful it is.
这也是我最想对所有的患者或家属说的话，慢慢会好起来的，一定要乐观。
This is what I most want to say to all patients or family members, slowly will be better, must be optimistic.
前天我关注到政府的一个政策说，不会放过任何一个患者，哪怕是轻微症状的，也会隔离起来治疗。
The day before yesterday I was concerned about a government policy that no patient, no matter how mild, would be isolated for treatment.
直到今天都还没有执行彻底，还有很多患者或者家属呐喊，需要试剂确诊，需要床位住院。
To this day has not been carried out thoroughly, there are many patients or families cry out, need reagent diagnosis, need bed hospital.
现在，我堂姐的姨妈也感染住院了。
Now my cousin's aunt is in the hospital too.
她一家三口都被感染了，丈夫70多岁，直到病发去世都没试剂检测确诊。
All three of her family were infected and her husband was in his 70s, until his death without reagent testing.
堂哥受感染还在社区的隔离点。
Cousins are still infected at the community isolation point.
我身边的亲戚朋友一共有5个人受感染尚未确诊。
A total of five of my relatives and friends have not been diagnosed with infection.
虽然没确诊，但肯定是感染了。
It's not confirmed, but it must be an infection.
因为医生口头说了，他是不会骗你的，他们都在尽自己最大能力救治你，不会隐瞒什么，这是挺好的。
Because the doctor said orally, he will not deceive you, they are doing their best to save you, will not hide anything, it is good.
（编辑：徐玮超 严月茹）「云林街十七号」推出征集活动无论你是医护人员、患者，还是普通人都可以点击“阅读原文”和我们联系点击“阅读原文”，报名参与“故事征集”。
Whether you are a health care worker, patient or ordinary person, you can click on "Read the original text" and contact us to sign up for the "Call to Story."
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“我们住在一个家，却无法一起见面”。
"We live in the same house, but we can't meet."
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "文学";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "云林街十七号";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; 17 Yunlin Street;;
var msg_title = "“我们住在一个家，却无法一起见面”";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; "We used to live in the same house but couldn't meet" & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "希望武汉早点好起来。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Wish Wuhan had gotten better earlier.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="云林街十七号";。
var title = & quot; 17 Yunlin Street; & quot;
