全国多地“封村”，防疫效果如何？。
Many parts of the country "sealed the village", how effective epidemic prevention?
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 出行一客。
The following article comes from a trip.
Author 施智梁团队。
Author Team.
出行一客。
Take a trip.
《财经》杂志交通工业组创建，专注于交通出行领域新闻。
The Transport Industry Section of Caijing Magazine was founded to focus on news in the field of transport travel.
在这里，我们将带你联结出行、科技与未来。
Here, we will connect you with travel, technology and the future.
。
.
当上门拜年的人扑空、救护车里的医护人员被迫下车清理路障、村民风声鹤唳草木皆兵，“封村”政策执行的粗放性又不免被摆到台面上来洛阳南村小区门口悬挂着横幅 / 受访者 供图文|《财经》记者 王静仪王斌斌 特约撰稿 杨佩谦编辑| 施智梁或沙石封路，或人为阻挡，为了防止源自武汉的新型冠状病毒疫情的蔓延，全国多地村庄在春节前后相继进行大规模的“封村”行动，引发外界关注和争议。
When visitors to the New Year come to an end, ambulance staff are forced out to clear roadblocks, villagers haze over roadblocks, and the rampant implementation of the policy of "blocking the village" hangs banners / interviewees at the entrance to Luoyang's Nancun residence.
据《财经》记者不完全统计，自正月起，河南、河北、山西、山东、浙江、广东等多个省份在封锁村庄对外通行的道路，禁止车辆通行，其中尤以华北华中各省尤甚，拒绝一切非本村的外来人员和车辆进入。
According to incomplete statistics, since the first month, many provinces, including Henan, Hebei, Shanxi, Shandong, Zhejiang and Guangdong provinces, have banned vehicular traffic in closed villages, especially in the central central provinces of northern China.
几乎没有人否认，面对疫情在全国范围蔓延，“封村”在这样非常时刻的必要性。
Few deny the need to "seal the village" at such a critical moment in the face of the epidemic spreading across the country.
早在这之前，村民也多已自发减少了外出活动。
Even before that, the villagers had spontaneously reduced their out-of-town activities.
但当上门拜年的人扑空、救护车里的医护人员被迫下车清理路障、村民风声鹤唳草木皆兵，“封村”政策执行的粗放性又不免被摆到台面上来。
But when people came to visit the New Year, ambulance staff were forced to get out of vehicles to clean up roadblocks, the villagers fret about the implementation of the policy of "village closure" is inevitably put on the table.
同时，人员的流动没有被封住，本村村民能在登记后自由出入，这样的“封村”成效几何？浙江嘉兴：村里来了一辆“鄂F”“有群众举报说，一辆湖北牌照的车辆在村里面开来开去，是什么情况？”1月27日晚饭前后，村委干部匆匆驱车赶到该村的疫情防控检查点，也是“封村”之后车辆唯一的出入口。
At the same time, the movement of people was not blocked, and the villagers were able to enter and leave freely after the registration of their villages.Jiaxing, Zhejiang Province: A report came from the village that a Hubei-licensed vehicle was driving back and forth in the village.
村子在浙江省嘉兴市某百强县，位于三个县市的交界处，一般过年时节，人来车往，流量很大。
The village in Jiaxing City, Zhejiang Province, a hundred counties, located at the junction of three counties, the general New Year season, people to the traffic, very large.
截止1月28日24时，嘉兴市累积报告新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎确诊病例14例，其中重症病例5例。
As of 2400 hours on January 28, 14 confirmed cases of pneumonia with new coronavirus infection had been reported in Jiaxing city.
“现在主要担心的是很多回家过年的工人回这边，或者有湖北籍人士来这边投亲靠友。
"The main concern now is that many workers who come home for the Chinese New Year come back here, or even Hubei people come here to join in.
”该村村支书对《财经》记者表示，要特别注意他们中是否有感染的人。
The village branch told Caijing that special attention should be paid to those among them who are infected.
1月26日下午，各小队的小队长（村民组长）被叫到村委开会，正式传达从镇里下发的“封村”通知，同时沟通具体封锁哪些道路、最后留哪个口子作为疫情防控检查点（简称“卡点”）通行，能够最方便村民生活。
On the afternoon of January 26, the team leaders (village leaders) were called to a village committee meeting to formally convey the "village seal" notice issued from the town, and to communicate which roads were blocked and which cut-off points were allowed to pass as checkpoints for disease prevention and control, thus making life easier for villagers.
很快，村里通往其他各村的道路，陆续被沙子、泥土等封堵，只留下一个出入口。
Soon, the village to the other villages of the road, gradually blocked by sand, soil and so on, leaving only an entrance.
在此之前，相邻的村子已经开始陆陆续续“封村”，其中一个村子还从一家工厂调用一辆货车堵在路口。
Before that, neighbouring villages had continued to trickle down, with one village moving a lorry from a factory to block the intersection.
相邻的村子已经开始陆陆续续“封村”，其中一个村子还从一家工厂调用一辆货车堵在路口 / 记者王斌斌 摄村里通往其他各村的道路，陆续被沙子、泥土等封堵 / 记者王斌斌 摄多位接受《财经》记者采访的村民都表示理解这样的举措，“是为了大家好，没有特殊情况，也不会外出。
Neighboring villages have continued to trickle down, with one village transferring a lorry from a factory to block the road to other villages, blocked by sand and earth / press Wang Binbin. Many villagers interviewed by Caijing said they understood the move "for the good of everyone, no special circumstances, no going out.
”《财经》记者观察了多条被堵道路后发现，这些封堵措施主要是针对汽车，而行人以及两轮电瓶车可以从边缘地带通行。
Caijing's reporters looked at a number of blocked roads and found that the closures were mainly aimed at cars, while pedestrians and two-wheeled electric vehicles could move from the edges.
在其中一条路上，《财经》记者就看到一辆电瓶车驶离村子。
On one of the roads, Caijing reporter saw an electric truck leaving the village.
26日下午4点，村委在该入口设立了“疫情防控检查点”，搭建了一个简易的棚子，并开始招募18岁以上、50岁以下的志愿者进行执勤检查。
At 4: 00 pm on the 26th, the village committee set up an "epidemic prevention and control checkpoint" at the entrance, set up a makeshift hut and began recruiting volunteers over the age of 18 and under 50 to conduct operational inspections.
卡点执勤为24小时，三班倒（0-8点，8-16点以及16-24点）。
The checkpoint was operated 24 hours a day in three shifts (0-8, 8-16 and 16-24).
据了解，志愿者都是村委号召、自愿报名的。
It is understood that the volunteers are called upon by the village committee, voluntary registration.
26日，征集到志愿者十余人，每班安排两人。
On the 26th, more than ten volunteers were recruited and two persons were assigned to each class.
在村支书发布的卡点要求中，常规操作是核验身份、登记身份证号、联系方式以及车牌号，并测量体温，着重强调要询问近两周是否去过武汉。
Among the card-point requirements issued by the village branch, the normal operation is to check the identity, registration number, contact information and number of the car, and temperature measurement, with special emphasis on whether you have been to Wuhan in the past two weeks.
若为湖北籍人士，需了解现在居住地。
If you are of Hubei nationality, you need to know your current residence.
在卡点处临时搭建的棚子 / 记者王斌斌 摄针对湖北人员，体温异常者，拨打120将其带到指定医院。
A makeshift shack / reporter Wang Binbin at the checkpoint was taken to a designated hospital for Hubei staff and people with abnormal body temperature by calling 120.
体温正常者，如果住在企业，需要企业负责人到场确认，在企隔离；如住出租房，联系派出所核实身份，并与房东取得联系，由房东和租客沟通，在出租房隔离或者劝返。
A person with normal body temperature, if residing in an enterprise, needs the presence of the head of the enterprise to confirm isolation in the enterprise; in the case of rented accommodation, contact the police station to verify identity and contact the landlord, communicate with the tenant, segregate or persuade in the rented premises.
如果来自武汉，体温正常也需带到镇隔离点。
If from Wuhan, the body temperature is normal and should also be taken to the town isolation point.
有志愿者告诉《财经》记者，在具体执行过程中，一开始主要是针对外地来村的人员进行检查、登记，特别是外省牌照和外地返乡人员，需要注意并上报，拒绝外地人口进村。
Some volunteers told Caijing that during the implementation process, people from outside the village were mainly checked and registered, especially those coming from outside the province and returning from abroad.
如果是当地村民回家，一般问明从哪里来，家住哪里之后，就会放行。
If the local villagers go home, they usually ask where they came from, where they live, and then let them go.
尽管要求测量体温，由于设备未到位，这一要求成为一纸空文。
Despite the request for a temperature check, the request became a dead letter because the equipment was not in place.
28日，卡点的志愿者对《财经》记者表示，他们还没拿到体温检测的设备，不过“听说东西已经到镇里了”。
The volunteers at the checkpoint told Caijing on Monday that they had not been given the equipment for a temperature test, but had "heard that they are in town."
绝大多数来往车辆都很理解“封村”的举措，停车、摇下车窗，按照要求配合检查、登记等。
Most of the traffic is very understanding of the "village" initiative, parking, rolling down the windows, as required to cooperate with the inspection, registration.
经过卡点的以本地人士和本地车辆为主，没有发现特别情况。
Local people and local vehicles were the main vehicles passing through the checkpoint and no special cases were found.
直到1月27日晚饭前后，村民举报有“鄂F”的湖北牌照车辆在村内行驶。
Until about dinner on January 27, villagers reported that Hubei licensed vehicles with "E F" were driving in the village.
村委来人调查，与检查点的志愿者沟通，查看相关记录后，才发现是虚惊一场：该鄂F牌照车辆为京东快递车，晚饭前进入该村。
Village committee survey, with the volunteers at the checkpoint to check the relevant records, only to find a false alarm: the E E F vehicle for the Beijing East Express, entered the village before dinner.
因为快递员是本地口音，所留身份证号码的前几位也显示他是本地人，并非从湖北返乡人士，因此执勤人员放行。
Since the courier had a local accent and the top spot number indicated that he was a native and not a returning person from Hubei, the duty officer released him.
当天晚上7时许，鄂F牌照的快递车辆再次经过检查点，离开该村。
At about 7 p.m. on the same day, the express delivery vehicle, licence plate E E, again passed through the checkpoint and left the village.
当天执勤的志愿者透露，车辆驶离后，有村民来到卡点附近了解“鄂F”车辆的情况，根据交流内容来看应该就是举报的群众，其中一位女性表示，“要家里的小孩这几天不要网购了，这次弄得人心惶惶的。
After the vehicle left, villagers approached the site to find out what happened to the E-E vehicle, said one of the women. "I want the kids at home to stop buying online these days, and this time it's scary.
”1月28日，“封村”两天后，参与执勤检查的志愿者数量不断增加，从十多个到二十几个，排班从一天三班变成一天四班，同时村委每个班次都派人驻场，即每天四班倒，每班都有三人值守。
On January 28, two days after the closure of the village, the number of volunteers participating in operational inspections increased from a dozen to a dozen, shifting the shift from three to four shifts a day, with village committee members stationed on four shifts a day, each with three people on duty.
登记的标准变得严格，现在本村人进村也需要登记。
The criteria for registration have become stringent and now the people of the village need to register to enter the village.
对于道路的封锁也在加码。
The blockade of roads is also on the rise.
此前，被沙土封锁的道路还能通行电瓶车，28日开始，村里调了几辆汽车，分别横在几处堆放沙土的地方。
Previously, the road blocked by sand can still carry electric vehicles, 28, the village transferred a few cars, each in a number of places stacked sand.
山东滨州：村民打算“越狱”上班1月26日，山东省滨州市的新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎确诊病例达到3例。
BEIJING, Shandong Province, January 26 (Xinhua) -- Three cases of pneumonia were confirmed for a new coronavirus infection in Binzhou, Shandong Province.
滨州市人民政府随即发布通告，暂停市行政区范围内客运车辆的运行，包括长途客车、公交车和出租车等。
The people's government of Binzhou immediately issued a notice suspending the operation of passenger vehicles, including long-distance buses, buses and taxis.
和交通应急响应一起启动的，还有大规模的无差别封村行动。
Started in conjunction with the traffic emergency response, there was a massive indiscriminate operation to seal the village.
虽然没有来自官方的声明，但接近当地政府的知情人士向《财经》记者透露，现在是“宁可十防九空，也要切断传染源”，不管是否已有确诊病例，都需要先把人口流动控制住。
Although there were no official statements, people close to the local government told Caijing that it would be "better to cut off the source of infection" and to contain the flow of people, whether confirmed or not.
滨州位于山东北部，户籍总人口394.25万人，2018年的GDP为2640.52亿元，位居全省17个地级市的第14位。
Binzhou is located in northern Shandong Province, with a population of 3.942 million inhabitants and a 2018 GDP of 264.052 billion yuan, ranking 14th among 17 prefectural-level cities in the province.
大姚家村正是被封锁的村庄之一，这里与已有确诊病例的车集村相距12公里，二者虽然同属于滨州市惠民县，但实际距离并不算近。
The village of Dayaojia is one of the blockaded villages, 12 km from the market village where confirmed cases have been identified. Although both belong to Huimin county, Binzhou, the actual distance is not close.
1月26日早上，大姚家村实行了封村，除了当天村里的大喇叭进行循环广播，并没有提前下达其他通知。
On the morning of January 26, Dayaojia Village was closed to the public, except for a circular broadcast of the village loudspeaker on that day, without prior notice.
平日在滨州市区上班的姚先生，封村前两天才驱车回到老家。
Mr. Yao, who usually works in Binzhou, drove back to his hometown only two days before the village was closed.
“幸好现在是过年期间，家里年货备得足，吃的方面暂时不需要担心，不然真是措手不及。
"Fortunately this is the New Year period, the family is well-prepared, food aspects do not need to worry about, or really caught unprepared.
”他对《财经》记者表示，“但真的没想到我们这种小县城里也会有病例，而且封村之前对疫情基本没什么宣传，导致很多人根本不把这次的肺炎当回事，其实直到现在村里面戴口罩人的也不算多。
"But I really didn't think there would be cases in a small county like ours," he told Caijing. "And because there was not much publicity about the outbreak before the closure of the village, many people didn't take the pneumonia seriously, and so far not many people in the village have been wearing masks.
”某一个出村的路口被土挡住 / 受访者 供图大姚家村的封村方式简单：堵住每个路口，不允许机动车通行。
A junction out of a village is blocked by earth / interviewees supply Yao Jia Village with a simple way of sealing the village: blocking every junction and not allowing motor vehicles to pass.
“有的是大车拦在路上，有的是用挖掘机挖的土垒起来，还有放石头拉绳子的。
There are wagons in the road, earth mounds dug by excavators, and stones to pull ropes.
”姚先生说，“虽然汽车走不了，但是徒步还是可以穿行，有些路口挡得不严实，电动车也能走。
"Yao said," although the car can't go, but it can still walk through on foot, some junctions are not tightly blocked, and electric cars can walk.
”大姚家村允许本村人进出，但禁止外来人口进入。
Yao allowed people from the village in and out, but was barred from outside the village.
就在1月26日封村的当日下午，姚先生送哥哥离村，“回来的时候没有人拦下我，而且没有体温测试。
On the afternoon of 26 January, Mr. Yao escorted his brother from the village. "Nobody stopped me when I got back, and there was no temperature test.
”外村人不能到大姚家村拜年了，但本村人还是可以相互串门。
The villagers can't visit Dayaojia village for the New Year, but the villagers can still visit each other.
姚先生留意道，村民的防护意识开始提高，已经不再随意走动，“还算自觉吧。
Mr. Yao noted that the villagers began to improve the sense of protection, no longer free to walk, "but also conscious.
”截至1月28日24时，滨州市新增新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎累计确诊病例6例。
As of 2400 hours on January 28, six cases of pneumonia with a new coronavirus infection had been confirmed in Binzhou.
无差别封村还在持续进行着，前述知情人士告诉《财经》记者，滨州市行政区内的绝大部分村庄都已经“封锁”，市内的居民区也已经开始陆续限制人员进出。
The indiscriminate closures continued, the person familiar with the matter told Caijing that most of the villages in the Binzhou administrative district had been "closed" and that residential areas in the city were beginning to be restricted.
姚先生有些疑惑：“政府用意挺好的，而且执行效率也很高，但是不知道这种’封车不封人’的模式有多大作用？”但更他发愁的是，封村之后，自己如何回到滨州市区上班。
Mr. Yao wondered: "The government has good intentions and is very efficient in its execution, but I don't know how much this' no-car 'model works." But what worries him more is how he can get back to work in Binzhou after sealing the village.
虽然国务院规定春节假期延长三日至2月2日，可他的公司并没有下发相应通知，这意味按照原定计划，正月初七他就要上班了。
Although the State Council extended the Spring Festival by three days to February 2, his company did not issue a notice to that effect, which meant that he was due to start work on the seventh day of the first month.
但是进出村的路口都被封住，他的私家车开不出去，而通往市区的公共交通也已经全部停运。
But intersections into and out of the village were blocked, his private car was impassable, and all public transport to the city had been shut down.
大姚家村距离滨州市区45公里，驾车需要一个小时。
Dayaojia is about 45 kilometers from Binzhou City and takes an hour to drive.
“实在没办法了，今明两天我打算去’越狱’试试。
There's nothing I can do. Im going to try Prison Break today and tomorrow.
”姚先生有点无奈。
Mr. Yao felt a little helpless.
河南洛阳：从劝返湖北车辆到劝返本省车辆1月29日，家住洛阳市市区的郭先生准备给住在南村的母亲送些年货，却在村口被拦了下来。
Luoyang, Henan Province: From persuading vehicles back to Hubei Province to persuade vehicles to return to this province January 29, Mr. Guo, who lives in downtown Luoyang City, was stopped at the village's entrance to deliver some new year goods to his mother who lives in Nancun.
“不让进啊，所有外面来的都不让进”，村口设了好几个岗哨，“前天（27日，正月初三）就封了，本村人登记了可以出去，外面的统统不让进。
"Do not enter, all outside are not allowed to enter", the village put up several sentry posts, "the day before yesterday (27, the first day of the first month) sealed, the village can register to go out, the outside of all not to enter.
”带着一袋子年货的郭先生愣了。
"Mr. Guo stared with a bag of New Year's goods.
他拨通母亲的电话，母亲赶到村口，戴着口罩的二人汇合，没说几句话就匆匆散开。
He dialed his mother, who rushed to the entrance of the village. The two men in masks rallied and hurried away without saying anything.
他们约定，疫情结束之前，电话联系就够了。
They agreed that telephone contact would be sufficient until the outbreak was over.
截至1月28日24时，洛阳市累计报告新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎确诊病例2例。
As of 2400 hours January 28, Luoyang City cumulative report of a new coronavirus infection pneumonia confirmed 2 cases.
尽管疫情扩散情况相对全国其他地区尚不突出，但洛阳市防控指挥部的要求严格：该市不仅从正月开始陆续“封村”，而且将车辆排查劝返范围从湖北扩大到本省的信阳和南阳等市，被网友评论为“疫情面前六亲不认”。
Although the spread of the epidemic relative to the rest of the country, but Luoyang City Control Command requirements are strict: not only the city from January onwards "closed the village," but also the vehicle screening and persuasion from Hubei Province to Xinyang and Nanyang City, was commented as "epidemic in the face of six friends.
1月29日，洛阳市交通要道疫情联防联控工作领导小组对湖北牌照车辆及乘坐人员开始执行劝返，同时对省内信阳、南阳、周口、驻马店、商丘、郑州、平顶山七地市的机动车和人员也要劝返。
On January 29, the Leading Group for Joint Control of Outbreak in Luoyang City began to carry out exhortations for vehicles and passengers with Hubei license plates. Motor vehicles and personnel from Xinyang, Nanyang, Zhoukou, Ma-dian, Shangqiu, Zhengzhou and Pingdingshan cities in the province should also be encouraged.
河南位于湖北北部，两地经济社会往来密切，截止昨天，与湖北接壤的河南省信阳市已确诊32例，河南省省会郑州市已确诊40例。
As of yesterday, 32 cases had been confirmed in Xinyang, Henan Province, bordering Hubei Province, and 40 cases in Zhengzhou, capital of Henan Province.
河南多地的封村正在进行中。
Village closures are under way in Henan Province.
南村是位于城市边缘的村庄，和洛阳市区的距离只有一两公里，去探望母亲的郭先生白跑一趟，还能觉得“（封村）能理解，在这个时候应该的”。
South Village is located on the edge of the city, and Luoyang only one or two kilometers away from the city, to visit his mother Mr. Guo Bao, can also feel that "[Village] can understand, at this time should be.
但当张先生从洛阳驱车50公里，到达邻市三门峡市藕池村的村口，却发现所有路口都已经被堵上，他急了。
But when Mr. Zhang drove 50 kilometers from Luoyang to the entrance of lotus pond village in the neighboring city of Sanmenxia, he found that all the intersections had been blocked, he was in a hurry.
“地图软件上又看不到提醒，我们也没有接到通知，我们怎么知道封村了？”张先生对村口执勤的志愿者质疑道。
"There was no warning on the map software, and we were not notified. How do we know that the village was closed?" Mr. Zhang asked the volunteers on duty at the village gate.
志愿者寸土不让。
Volunteers won't give up.
“目前进入藕池村的七个路口，加油站和车站路口是有人值班、活动封闭，其他五个路口已经全部用土堆封闭，禁止一切外来人口进入。
"At present into the seven lotus root village junction, gas station and station intersection is on duty, closed activities, the other five junctions have all been closed with earth mounds, to all outside population access.
”探望年逾八旬的父母未果，张先生更担忧的是，救护车来了怎么办？“我们了解到不少救护车被堵在村口的情况”，洛阳市120急救指挥中心相关人士告诉《财经》记者，“肯定会延误急救的，但是具体多长时间不好说，因为村里也会帮忙清理。
"We know a lot of ambulances are stuck at the edge of the village," Zhang told Caijing. "It's definitely going to be delayed, but it's hard to say how long, because the village will help."
如果只拉横幅的就很快，就怕石头和土堵路的。
If you pull only a banner quickly, you are afraid of stones and dirt blocking the road.
”一位山东省平度市人民医院的急诊科护士也对《财经》记者说，她在最近一次进村急救时，因为村里用树枝堆阻挡了道路，她不得不和同事一起下车清理路障，“别病毒没到，人就不行了”。
An emergency nurse at the People's Hospital in Pingdu, Shandong Province, also told Caijing that she had to get off the bus with her colleagues to clear the barricade because the village had blocked the road with a tree branch pile.
她希望，各村庄一定要理性封村、科学封路。
She hoped that the villages must be rationally sealed and scientifically sealed.
（本文为《财经》与腾讯新闻独家合作内容，谢绝转载）“武汉肺炎”疫情系列报道▷ 点击图片查看责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
This article is an original for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization. This article is an original for Caijing magazine.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
全国多地“封村”，防疫效果如何？。
Many parts of the country "sealed the village", how effective epidemic prevention?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "全国多地“封村”，防疫效果如何？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "当上门拜年的人扑空、救护车里的医护人员被迫下车清理路障、村民风声鹤唳草木皆兵，“封村”政策执行的粗放性又不免被摆到台面上来";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
