北京家政工：无法返京，无处隔离，无工可做。
Beijing domestic workers: unable to return to Beijing, nowhere to isolate, no work to do.
南风窗                      。
South Window.
南风窗。
South Window.
冷静的力量。
The power of coolness.
The following article comes from 新周刊。
The following article comes from the new weekly.
Author 赵景宜。
Author Zhao Jingyi.
新周刊。
New Weekly.
《新周刊》创刊于1996年8月18日，由南方出版传媒股份有限公司主管、主办，以“中国最新锐的生活方式周刊”为定位，推出过一系列极具影响力的专题报道，是中国期刊市场最具代表性和影响力的杂志之一，享有"话题策源地"的美誉。
New Weekly, founded on 18 August 1996 and hosted by Southern Publishing and Media, Inc., has a range of influential features targeted at China's Newest Lifestyle Weekly. It is one of the most representative and influential magazines in the Chinese periodical market, and enjoys the reputation of having RTS.
。
.
疫情之下，许多不曾见过的场景变得稀松平常，而曾经再简单不过的事却变得十分艰难。
Under the epidemic, many unseen scenes have become commonplace, and what was once simple has become very difficult.
突如其来的疫情，让家政工的工作节奏在“上户”和“下户”间不断切换。
The sudden outbreak of the epidemic, so that the pace of domestic workers in the "upper" and "lower" constantly switch.
偌大的北京城里，她们留守在各自的出租屋内，期待疫情过后的阳光。
In the huge city of Beijing, they stay in their rented rooms, looking forward to the post-epidemic sunshine.
如果晚走一天，小陈姐可能回不了北京。
Xiao Chen may not be able to go back to Beijing if she leaves one day late.
她是个家政小时工，从业十年，四川阆中人。
She worked as a domestic helper for ten years. She was a Sichuan Langzhong.
在北京，她住在五环外靠近望京的费家村。
In Beijing, she lives outside the Fifth Ring Road near Faijia Village, Wangjing.
2月3日，她打算从老家返回北京。
On February 3, she plans to return to Beijing from her hometown.
在这之前，她就听到北京传来的消息——随着疫情不断严重，费家村一度不允许租户入住，后改成在家隔离一周。
Before that, she had heard news from Beijing that, as the outbreak continued, Faijia had once refused to allow tenants to move in and was being kept in isolation for a week.
这个村子住着几百个村民，以及数万名外地人。
The village is home to hundreds of villagers and tens of thousands of outsiders.
去阆中市火车站要坐中巴车，小陈姐趁停车时在路边买了两斤折耳根。
To Langzhong railway station to take the Zhongba bus, while the little sister Chen while parking in the roadside to buy two catties broken ears.
她随身带了十来斤豌豆尖、油菜。
She took ten kilos of pea tips and rape with her.
“担心进村后，不让出门，买不到吃的。
"Fear of entering the village, not to go out, can not buy food.
”进入2月，那些偏远的乡村对疫情也有了警觉。
In February, the remote villages were alerted to the outbreak.
往年，小陈姐会带上阆中特产张飞牛肉送给雇主们。
In previous years, Sister Chen will bring Zhang Fei beef, a Langzhong specialty, to her employers.
但如今，镇上铺子都关门了。
But now the town's shops are closed.
进了市区，行人很少，她也不敢乱逛。
There were few pedestrians in the city, and she dared not wander about.
十多个小时的动车上，小陈姐一口水也没喝，因为她不敢摘下口罩。
More than 10 hours of moving car, little Chen did not drink a mouthful of water, because she did not dare to take off her mask.
第二天，她就听家人说，“封村了，路封了，班车也停运了”。
The next day, she heard from her family, "sealed the village, the road closed, the bus stopped."
一开始，所有人都意识不到，接下来会面临什么。
At first, no one realized what lay ahead.
摄影/引粒返京之路想进费家村，得房东来一一领人。
Photography / Paring back to Beijing Road want to enter the village, the landlord to get people.
寒冬中，小陈姐等了一个小时，总算到家了。
In the winter, Xiao Chen waited for an hour and finally got home.
在北京五环外，有很多像费家村这样的地方。
Outside the five rings in Beijing, there are many places like Fei Jia Village.
这些散落在城市外围的村庄，如今成了外来务工人员的落脚点：租金相对低廉，还方便进城工作。
These scattered villages on the outskirts of the city are now home to migrant workers: relatively cheap rents and easy access to the city for work.
2017年，小陈姐搬到这里，和女儿住在一起；去年，女儿回成都工作，这个月租1600元的小公寓里就剩下她自己了。
Chen moved here in 2017 to live with her daughter, who last year returned to work in Chengdu, leaving her to fend for herself in her 1,600-yuan apartment.
“我还想再干几年，房租也凑合，交得起。
"I want to work a few more years, and the rent is affordable.
”按计划，隔离一周后，小陈姐就能拿到出入证了。
After a week of isolation, Xiao Chen is scheduled to get a pass.
大年初一，费家村处于强封闭状态，留在北京的租户需要办证。
New Year's Day, the village in a strong closed state, stay in Beijing tenants need to apply for a permit.
原本村子有好几个出入口，现在只留了一个。
There used to be several entrances to the village, but now there is only one.
起初，办证需要花很长时间排队，一到下午4点，管理人员就说“不办了”。
At first, it took a long queue to get a pass, and by 4 p. m., managers said "no."
租户们不满，去网上发帖投诉，晚些时候，村子又开始连夜办证。
The tenants resented and posted online complaints, and later the village began to run its cards overnight.
费家村一度不允许湖北、安徽、河南等八省的租户回村，但后来因为争议太大，改成了这几个省的人进村隔离两周，其他省的人隔离一周。
At one point, tenants from eight provinces, including Hubei, Anhui and Henan, were not allowed to return to their villages, but later, because of the controversy, people from those provinces were separated from the village for two weeks and those from the other provinces for a week.
费家村门前，有人设卡巡查。
A man set up a checkpoint in front of Faijia village.
摄影/引粒对小陈姐来说，隔离的一周太闷了，她只好用来睡觉。
Photography / Particles For Sister Chen, the isolated week was so stuffy that she had to sleep.
她的日程原本安排得很满，每天有4份工作：早上6点半起，在一家幼儿园做3小时保洁；上午10点，去一个雇主家打扫卫生、做午饭；午饭后，在另一个雇主家待4个小时，做家务、做晚饭，离开后回到幼儿园刷1小时碗；下午6点半，在一家药业公司再干2个小时保洁。
She had a full schedule, four jobs a day: cleaning at a kindergarten for three hours from 6: 30 a.m., cleaning and lunch at one employer's house at 10 a.m., doing housework, cooking dinner, returning to the kindergarten after lunch to do housework, cook dinner and return to the kindergarten to do an hour's work.
这些工作，让小陈姐每月能赚1万多元。
These jobs, let younger sister Chen can earn more than 10, 000 a month.
但如今，突然袭来的疫情打破了这一切。
But now the sudden outbreak has shattered all of this.
年初二，小陈姐接到一个雇主的电话，说年后就不请她帮忙了。
On the second day of New Year, Xiao Chen received a telephone call from an employer saying that she would not ask her for help after the year.
这是一个普通家庭，住着60平方米的两居室。
This is an ordinary family, living in 60 square meters of two-bedroom.
女雇主的母亲得过癌症，无法照顾念小学的外孙，所以雇了小时工。
The mother of a female employer suffered from cancer and was unable to care for her grandchild in primary school, so she hired a part-time worker.
小陈姐在这家干了两年多，做家务、做晚饭，彼此处得很好。
Xiao Chen worked in this house for more than two years, do housework, cook dinner, get along well with each other.
刚来时，她告诉女雇主，这些活不需要花4个小时。
When she arrived, she told her employer that the job would not take four hours.
对方很体恤人，让她睡1小时午觉。
The other person is very considerate, let her sleep an hour nap.
“她跟我说，实在对不起，现在旅游业没活了，她自己也没工作，打算在家把孩子带到小学毕业。
"I'm sorry," she told me. "Now that the tourism industry is dead and she doesn't have a job herself, she's going to bring her kids home to finish primary school.
我说没关系，我很理解，人都有无助的时候。
I said it's okay. I understand. People can be helpless.
”小陈姐说。
"said little Chen.
因为疫情，私立幼儿园暂时不开学。
Private kindergartens are temporarily closed because of the epidemic.
小陈姐的工作就剩下两个。
Sister Chen has only two jobs left.
药业公司告诉她，隔离期间一样付工资。
The pharmaceutical company told her to pay the same wages during the quarantine period.
另一个家庭雇了小陈姐10年。
Another family hired little Chen for 10 years.
她在这家做午饭，和雇主一家人一起吃。
She cooks lunch in this house and eats with her employer's family.
最开始是一家四口，两个小孩长大后，只剩雇主夫妇二人，其中一个出差的话，另一个就叫小陈姐过来一起吃。
The first is a family of four. When the two children grow up, there are only two employers. If one of them is on a business trip, the other will ask Xiao Chen to come and eat with them.
这家人倒不在意外地人返京需要隔离这件事，他们告诉小陈姐：“你看能不能偷偷跑出来，和人讲讲好话？”回到费家村，小陈姐向工作人员出示出入证。
The family did not care about the need to separate foreigners from Beijing. They told Xiao Chen, "Do you think you can sneak out and have a good word to say?"
摄影/引粒隔离了一周后，小陈姐去上了几天班。
After being isolated for a week, Xiao Chen went to work for a few days.
这时，费家村出了新规，从进村那天算起，所有租户都要隔离两周。
At this time, the new village rules, from the date of entry into the village, all tenants have to be isolated for two weeks.
刚到手的出入证，就这样被没收了。
Just got a pass, and it was confiscated.
越发紧张的雇佣关系2月初，北京鸿雁社工服务中心负责人梅若接到一个电话，对方叫李萍，是一位育儿嫂，干了十天，下户（月嫂、育儿嫂、住家保姆等家政工通常只服务一家雇主，找到新雇主称为“上户”，离开雇主则称为“下户”）了，中介公司拒绝付她薪水。
At the beginning of February, Mei Ruo, the head of the Hongyan Social Work Service Center in Beijing, received a call from Li Ping, a child-raising sister-in-law, who had worked for 10 days. Domestic workers, such as the wife, wife-in-law and live-in babysitter, often served only one employer.
按照原来谈好的价钱，她本该拿回3600元。
She was supposed to get 3,600 yuan back at the agreed price.
最近二十多天，梅若都在天津家中线上工作。
For more than 20 days, Mei Ruo has been working on the Tianjin mid-line.
她比以往更忙，收到了很多求助信息。
She's busier than ever, getting a lot of help.
北京鸿雁社工服务中心是一家专门服务家政工群体的公益机构，家政工们称它为“鸿雁之家”。
The Beijing Hongyan Social Work Service Centre is a public welfare agency specializing in domestic workers, who refer to it as the "Hong Yan Home."
有人估计，中国共有3500万名家政工，她们是城市化进程中隐秘而又重要的推动者。
Some estimate that there are 35 million domestic workers in China who are hidden and important agents in the process of urbanization.
疫情让以往就存在的各种纠纷变得尖锐又暧昧。
The epidemic has sharpened and obscured a variety of disputes that existed in the past.
年二十八，李萍上户了，雇主是一个刚生了二胎的母亲。
In 1998, Li Ping went to the family home. The employer was a new mother with two children.
“她和中介公司谈好，一个月14800元，中介抽4000元。
"She negotiated a good deal with the agency, 14,800 yuan a month, the intermediary smoking 4000 yuan.
春节三天的加倍工资，雇主另付。
Double wages for the three days of Spring Festival.
最后，李萍只收到了加班费。
Finally, Li Ping only received overtime pay.
”梅若说。
'she said.
李萍只干了十天，因为她觉得雇主要求过于严格。
Li Ping worked only ten days because she felt her employer was too strict.
有10年月嫂经验的她觉得有些委屈，比如为婴儿做饭时，她会把孩子暂时交给母亲，但对方对此很有意见：“上一次请的月嫂，孩子我碰都不用碰。
She felt aggrieved by the experience of her 10-year-old sister-in-law, such as temporarily handing over the baby to her mother while she cooked for the baby, but was critical: "I didn't have to touch the baby the last time I invited her.
”李萍请辞过两次，雇主都挽留了她，直到第三次，对方终于同意了。
Li Ping resigned twice, and the employer retained her until a third time, when the other party finally agreed.
中介公司的态度是：“你毁了我的单子，违约了，十天的钱别想拿了。
The agency's attitude: "You ruined my list, defaulted, and don't take ten days.
”得知这个情况，梅若给中介公司打了电话。
"Hearing of this, May telephoned the agency.
对方表示：“她在疫情中抛弃了雇主，也不管是否有人接手就直接离开了，这没有职业操守。
"It is not ethical for her to abandon her employer in the face of the epidemic and to leave directly, whether someone takes over or not," she said.
”双方交涉了好几次。
Several attempts were made.
过去，梅若从不主动直接参与谈判，而是试图让家政工“搞清楚状况”，自己学会谈判和维权。
In the past, instead of directly negotiating, she tried to get domestic workers to "figure out the situation" and learn to negotiate and defend themselves.
但李萍不太习惯同性格强势的人打交道，中介拉黑了她的微信。
But Li Ping is not used to dealing with people with strong personalities, the intermediary black her micro-letter.
打电话过去，她又被对方臭骂了一顿。
She was scolded again on the phone.
小陈姐的自行车。
Little Sister Chen's bike.
平日里，她每天打四份工。
She works four times a day on weekdays.
早六点半，一直到晚八点半。
Six-thirty in the morning and up to eight thirty.
半年前，村子没收了她的电动车，改骑自行车上下班。
Six months ago, the village confiscated her electric car and commuted to work by bike.
疫情到来，小陈姐工作少了一半。
When the outbreak came, Xiao Chen lost half of her job.
但实际上，她算数千万小时工里比较幸运的一个了。
But in fact, she was the luckier of the tens of millions of hourly workers.
摄影/赵景宜对于李萍的离开，双方各有说法。
Photography / Zhao Jingyi for Li Ping's departure, each side said.
中介公司认为，李萍只是为了赚春节加班费，离开是因为有了新的活。
Intermediary company thinks, Li Ping is just in order to earn Spring Festival overtime pay, leave because have new job.
产生纠纷期间，中介在微信上联系李萍，要求她开视频通话，但李萍都没接，就怀疑她已经上户了。
During the dispute, the intermediary in the micro-letter to contact Li Ping, asked her to open a video call, but Li Ping did not answer, she suspected that she had been on the door.
梅若则相信李萍，因为双方多次通话时，“环境非常安静，明显是待业状态”。
Mei Ruo believes Li Ping, because the two sides of many phone calls, "the environment is very quiet, clearly state of unemployment."
“她被误解，是因为在雇主家干活那段时间，上一个客户在微信上问她照顾孩子的问题。
"She was misunderstood because while she was working at the employer's house, the last client wrote to her about her childcare.
听到对方传来的语音时，现雇主很不满意，觉得她在找新工作。
Hearing the voice, the current employer was very dissatisfied with her and felt that she was looking for a new job.
”梅若说。
'she said.
过去能够沟通、解释的误解，在眼下的特殊时期变得难以解释。
Misunderstandings that could have been communicated and explained in the past have become difficult to explain in these particular times.
梅若认为，李萍和中介公司都有责任，都没有预估疫情的影响。
Mei Ruo thinks, Li Ping and intermediary company are responsible, did not predict the impact of the epidemic.
中介应该和李萍做好沟通，劝她这时候不下户。
The intermediary should do a good job of communicating with Li Ping, advise her not to leave the house at this time.
“中介老说，很难找到人接手，雇主也不放心新来的人返京有没隔离，就不请月嫂了。
Intermediaries often say that it is difficult to find someone to take over, and employers do not trust newcomers to Beijing to have separation, do not ask Sister-in-law.
中介把这种损失迁怒到这个姐姐身上。
The agency took the loss to her sister.
”比起工作纠纷，无工可做是这次疫情对家政群体最常见的影响。
Job insecurity is the most common effect of the epidemic on domestic workers, compared with job disputes.
有些人找不到新工作，有些人被雇主要求隔离但找不到隔离地。
Some are unable to find new jobs, while others are asked by their employers to be segregated but cannot be segregated.
家政工遇到的这些困难，是近期复工难的一个缩影。
These difficulties encountered by domestic workers are a microcosm of the recent return to work.
2月8日，梅若终于处理完李萍的个案，双方各担责任，中介公司付李萍2000元工资。
February 8, Mei finally finished the case of Li Ping, both sides share the responsibility, the intermediary company to pay Li Ping 2000 yuan wages.
找工作对于家政工而言愈发艰难。
Finding a job is becoming more difficult for domestic workers.
摄影/引粒滞留在老家1月18日，陈雨露下户，提前回老家山西大同。
Photography / Granulation stay in his hometown January 18, Chen Yueluo under the family, early return home Shanxi Datong.
回家的原因，是她觉得上一个雇主太苛刻，“看家政工，像看下人一样。
The reason for going home was that she felt her last employer was too demanding. "The housekeeper is like looking after a man."
在家里，也不敢说话”。
I dare not speak at home.
这两年多，雇主家常出门旅游，其间给她放长假，不过会从她每月的工资里扣钱。
For more than two years, employers used to take long vacations while traveling, but would deduct money from her monthly salary.
“他们第二天要走，头一天晚上才告诉你，这几天不用来了。
'They're going away the next day, and they didn't tell you until the night before.
”陈雨露提了几次建议，希望雇主提前告知，自己回老家好买车票。
Chen Yuelu made several suggestions, hoping employers would inform him in advance that they would go home to buy their tickets.
好几次，她买的都是站票。
On several occasions, she bought station tickets.
年前，陈雨露提前10天告诉雇主，自己“以后不来了”。
Chen Yuelu told her employer 10 days in advance that she would not come in the future.
对方很生气，认为她应该提前两个月说清楚。
The other party was angry and thought that she should have made it clear two months in advance.
“谁能预料这么早？”她有些委屈，“我就说，你们出去旅游也没打招呼啊。
"Who could have foreseen so early?" She was a little aggrieved, "I said, you did not go out to travel to say hello.
”男主人被惹怒了：“凭什么跟你打招呼，我花钱雇你，想让你什么时候休就什么时候休。
"The man got angry and said," Say hello to me, I'll hire you and let you go whenever you want.
”回家没几天，陈雨露收到了儿子的电话，让她去买口罩。
A few days after returning home, Chen Yuelu received a call from her son asking her to buy a mask.
陈雨露的儿子在天津当乐器老师，今年22岁。
Chen's son is a 22-year-old instrument teacher in Tianjin.
他听说当地有确诊病人后，口罩已经很难买了。
He heard that it was difficult to buy a mask after a confirmed local patient.
放下儿子的电话，陈雨露跑去药房买了60个医用外科口罩。
Putting down her son's phone, Chen went to the pharmacy and bought 60 medical surgical masks.
这也是她买到口罩的最后机会。
It was her last chance to buy a mask.
一直到年二十八，陈雨露才发现疫情其实和自己紧密相关。
Until the twenty-eighth year, Chen Yuelu only found that the outbreak of their own closely related.
家政公司群里，经理发来消息：过完年，不要着急回来，宿舍关闭了。
Home Affairs Group, the manager sent a message: after the New Year, do not hurry back, the dormitory closed.
“他说我们要是回去，得隔离14天，可我们没住的地方，去哪隔离呀？”这个新年陈雨露没过好。
"He said that if we went back, we would have to be quarantined for 14 days, but where we didn't live, where was the segregation?"
她待在家里，心里犯急，担心找不到活。
She stayed at home, anxious, worried that she would not find work.
“听到这个事以后很无助。
"I was helpless to hear that.
本来生活就很有压力，因为做一天，你才有一天的工资。
Life is stressful because one day you get paid.
”三年前，陈雨露来到北京当住家嫂。
Three years ago, Chen Yuelu came to Beijing as a stay-at-home wife.
按照她的经验，春节后是找工作的高峰期。
In her experience, Spring Festival is the peak time for job hunting.
“正常情况下，我一般初六回北京。
Normally, I go back to Beijing on my sixth day of junior high.
等过了元宵节，大量人员返回北京，家政工宿舍人挤人，找活就很紧张。
After the Lantern Festival, a large number of people returned to Beijing, the domestic workers dormitory crowded, looking for work is very tense.
”她形容家政公司安排找活就像选秀一样，雇主一来，就安排三个人过去，一个一个看，“就是谈话，雇主感觉不行就换下一个，一直挑到满意为止”。
"She describes how a home office arranges job-hunting like a draft, where employers come in and have three people go by one at a time.
疫情之下，家政工供过于求。
Domestic workers are oversupplied by the epidemic.
摄影/引粒这些大大小小的中介公司，一般向家政工收取当月10%到30%的费用。
Photography / Granulation These large and small intermediaries typically charge domestic workers between 10 and 30 per cent of the cost for the month.
中介公司可以为下户的家政工提供付费的日租宿舍，帮助他们度过空档期。
Intermediaries can provide paid day-rent accommodation for domestic workers to help them stay in between assignments.
大多数住家保姆都通过中介公司找到雇主。
Most live-in nannies find employers through intermediaries.
但疫情让宿舍关闭，也让处于空档期的家政工犯了难。
But the outbreak shut down dormitories and made life difficult for domestic workers in between.
陈雨露说，儿子工作的培训机构，一直没有通知上班时间。
Chen Yuelu said the training agency where her son works had not been notified of working hours.
这段时间里，儿子也没了收入。
During this time, the son also lost his income.
住在甘肃平凉的李梦雨，也因为封路，没法去西安坐火车，回不了北京。
LiMengyu, who lives in Pingliang, Gansu Province, is unable to go to Xi'an by train or to Beijing because of road closures.
她还没和雇主商量复工时间，也没谈到返京后是否需要隔离两周这件事。
She hasn't talked to her employer about returning to work or whether she needs to be kept in quarantine for two weeks after returning to Beijing.
她的工作是照顾一个两岁多的小孩，但因为疫情，雇主也留在家里办公，“我得问好了再去，问不好就不去了” 。
Her job was to take care of a two-year-old, but because of the outbreak, the employer stayed at home too. "I'll have to say hello.
这一个多月，她所在的村子被封了，无法看望另一个村的独居母亲。
For more than a month, her village was closed and it was not possible to visit a single mother in another village.
空闲时，李梦雨就看那些从北京带回家的书，写点东西。
In his spare time, Li Mengyu reads books brought home from Beijing and writes about things.
然而她却被同村人讥笑，“说我成城里人了，看不起她们”“笑我想当作家”⋯⋯李梦雨称，因为疫情带来的“禁足”，让她对农村的传统和保守感到窒息。
However, she was ridiculed by her fellow villagers who "said I became a city dweller and despised them" "Laughing that I want to be a writer" because of the "ban" brought about by the outbreak which has stifled her from tradition and conservatism in the countryside.
漫漫返京路，不知道还要等待多久。
Long road back to Beijing, do not know how long to wait.
无处隔离住家保姆回北京后，雇主一般会要求她们先隔离一段时间。
When a live-in babysitter returns to Beijing, employers usually ask them to stay away for a while.
梅若称，有些家庭会提供住处，但更多的家庭没这个条件，需要保姆自己想办法。
Some families will provide accommodation, Mayer says, but many more do not and will need a babysitter's own way.
在鸿雁之家，有一个叫谭姐的人。
In Hongyan 's home, there is a man named Tan Jie.
她是四川人，远嫁广东后和丈夫关系不好，之后离家来到北京。
She was from Sichuan. After marrying Guangdong, she had a bad relationship with her husband and then left for Beijing.
去年，她回了一趟惠州参加女儿的婚礼，包了个“很大的红包”。
Last year, she returned to Huizhou to attend her daughter's wedding, wrapped a "big red envelope."
在北京当育儿嫂可以赚不少钱，这让谭姐底气很足，但孩子们从没来看过她。
Being a mother-in-law in Beijing can make a lot of money, which makes her feel good, but the children never come to see her.
在北京的10年里，谭姐没有固定住所。
For 10 years in Beijing, Sister Tan had no fixed abode.
她住在雇主家，游走于不同家庭间。
She lived with her employer and wandered from family to family.
碰到空档期时，中介公司提供的宿舍就是她的家。
When she ran into a gap, the dormitory provided by the agency was her home.
梅若很早就认识谭姐。
Mei knows Sister Tan very early.
“她中专毕业，文化程度不错。
"She graduated from high school with a good education.
有次上烹饪课，不小心踩翻了开水锅，毁容了。
One cooking class, accidentally stepped on the boiling water pot, disfigured the face.
她过得一直挺坎坷，但生活得很充实。
She has been rough, but she lives a full life.
”谭姐回北京前，梅若尝试帮她联系住所，但最终失败了。
"Before she returned to Beijing, Mae tried to contact her house but failed.
“我问了一些朋友，看有没有住的地方。
"I asked some friends if they had any place to stay.
谭姐也问过小陈姐，但那时小陈姐的外甥女住进去了⋯⋯”年初七，谭姐住进了老乡家里。
Tan sister also asked Xiao Chen sister, but at that time her niece lived in hospital "Year 7, Tan sister lived into the home.
雇主知道她回来后，专门给她送过一趟口罩，并承诺在隔离期间照样付工资。
The employer, aware of her return, sent her a special mask and promised to pay her wages while in isolation.
这一天，梅若接到另一个育儿嫂的咨询。
On this day, May receives advice from another Sister-in-Law.
对方称，雇主催她回来上班，提供了一处房子让她隔离5天。
She was reportedly rushed back to work by her employer, who provided her with a house to keep her in isolation for five days.
房子里只留了挂面、方便面，其他需要她自己解决。
The house only left hanging noodles, instant noodles, other needs her own solution.
育儿嫂认为隔离这5天应该有工资，但雇主咨询了中介公司后称不需要支付。
The mother-in-law believed that the five days of isolation should be paid, but the employer consulted the agency and said that no payment was required.
“我告诉她，关于这事没有明确的法律规定。
"I told her there was no clear law on the matter.
你从山东临沂坐12个小时车回来，路上冒着交叉感染的风险，回来隔离5天，雇主理应支付这笔费用，但需要双方进一步协商。
When you come back from Linyi, Shandong, in a 12-hour car ride, you risk cross-infection and return to quarantine for five days, a fee that the employer should pay, subject to further negotiation between the two sides.
”第二天晚上，这个育儿嫂给梅若发来微信：“感觉心被锁起来了。
"The next night, the sister-in-law sent a message to Mae:" I feel my heart locked up.
我想回家了。
I want to go home.
”回城工作一事，遥遥无期。
The task of returning to work was remote.
摄影/引粒更少工作机会2月22日，在调查了90名家政工后，鸿雁之家发布了一份家政工疫情调研报告。
Photo / Quill Less Job Opportunities February 22, after a survey of 90 home workers, Hon Yan House released a report on the domestic worker epidemic.
调查结果显示，受疫情影响，有40%的人在相当长一段时间内无法工作，20%的人失去了原来的工作。
According to the survey results, 40 per cent of the people affected by the epidemic had been unable to work for a considerable period of time, and 20 per cent had lost their jobs.
在很长一段时间里，小陈姐都只能打两份工了。
For a long time, Xiao Chen can only play two jobs.
2月13日，隔离期结束，她可以出入费家村了。
On 13 February, at the end of the isolation period, she was able to enter and leave the village.
中午，从雇主家离开后，她就直接去了药业公司。
At noon, after leaving her employer's house, she went straight to the pharmaceutical company.
这些天，来公司上班的人很少，做清洁的难度小了不少。
These days, few people come to the company to work, the difficulty of doing a lot of cleaning.
公司原来有一个专职保洁员，还有一个和小陈姐一样，每天只干两小时。
The company used to have a full-time cleaner, and one worked only two hours a day, as did Xiao Chen.
她们都没回来，被困在了老家。
They didn't come back. They were stuck in their hometown.
小陈姐算了一笔账：“公司跟我说，让我先全包了，另外两个人的工钱都算给我。
Xiao Chen calculated an account: "The company told me, let me first all the package, the other two people's wages are calculated to me.
她们回来前，我的收入和过去差不了太多。
Before they came back, my income wasn't much worse than it used to be.
但那家私立幼儿园刚开不久，说不定要倒闭。
But that private kindergarten has just opened and may go bankrupt.
这些窟窿还要想办法填。
We must try to fill in these holes.
”每天下午4点不到，小陈姐就回家了。
"Xiao Chen goes home before four o'clock every afternoon.
在那间小公寓里，她煮过火锅，做过土豆饼、酸菜面，还拍成小视频发到网上。
In that small apartment, she boiled a hotpot, made potato pancakes, pickled noodles, and made small videos for distribution on the Internet.
梅若一直觉得小陈姐性格乐观，“她喜欢喝红酒。
Mei has always felt optimistic about her personality. "She likes drinking red wine."
那么苦，不勉力生活，怎么支撑得下去”。
So bitter, do not struggle to live, how to sustain. "
梅若认识的另一个住在费家村的小时工，是一个人过的年。
Another part-time worker Meyer knew, who lived in Faijia, was a man.
村子实行封闭管理，她同在北京的丈夫和儿子过不来。
The village was sealed off and she could not get along with her husband and son in Beijing.
现在能出村了，但她更多时间都在家躺着，因为无事可做。
She was able to leave the village now, but she spent more time at home because there was nothing to do.
“她不像小陈姐，时间安排很密集，和雇主关系经营得很好。
"She doesn't look like Miss Chen. She has a very tight schedule and she manages very well with her employer.
她是一个很散的人，不是很有计划性。
She is a loose cannon. She is not very systematic.
她的雇主都是不固定的，不是每天都去同一家。
Her employers are all fickle and don't go to the same house every day.
有活就做，没了也着急，常常看到活就上户，有一种投机性，趁机会找人多要钱。
There is work to do, do not worry, often see on the door, there is a kind of speculation, will look for more money.
”“她常接些不靠谱的活，通常都没有合同。
"" She often takes jobs that don't count, and usually doesn't have a contract.
这几年，我跟她去了好几次雇主家找对方要钱。
In the past few years, I have gone to her employer's house several times to ask for money.
”过去的雇主让她最近不要去了，因为知道她去很多家里“串”，担心交叉感染。
Past employers told her not to go recently because they knew she was going to many homes "string" and worried about cross-infection.
实际上，这段时间她只有一个活，就是去喂猫，因为雇主去南方过年了。
In fact, she had only one job to do during this time. She was fed the cat because her employer had gone south for the New Year.
“我说你这样会坐吃山空的。
"I said you'd sit on your hands like that.
”梅若在电话里这样提醒，“她反倒挺坦然的，说全国人民都这样，正好能躺几天，能有啥办法？”在京务工的日子里，家政工们会在业余时间聚集到北京鸿雁社工服务中心，一起排练节目。
"What can be done about it?" Mei said in a telephone message. "She was calm enough to say that people all over the country could just lie down for a few days.
摄影/杨昶梅若说，家政工这个群体其实蛮乐观的。
Photo / YangChangMei said that the group of domestic workers was rather optimistic.
她还记得2017年12月，自己去拜访小陈姐，后者当时和姐姐、外甥女一起住在东辛店村。
She remembers visiting her sister Chen, who was living with her sister and niece in Dongxindian village in December 2017.
小小的房子里没有电暖器，非常冷，那段时间，村里的很多外地租客匆忙搬走。
There was no electricity heater in the small house. It was very cold. During that time, many of the village tenants left in a hurry.
在谈话间，村子又一次突然停电，小陈姐三人就像什么也没发生一样，点燃一支蜡烛，继续愉快地谈起刚说的事情。
During the conversation, the village was out of power again. As if nothing had happened, the three of them lit a candle and talked happily about what they had just said.
“那种失序感，那种随时要迎接的意外，对她们来说就是生活的常态。
That sense of disorder, that unexpected readiness to meet, is the norm in life for them.
”“她们长出了一种能力，随时迎接生活里的不确定性。
"" They have developed a capacity for meeting uncertainty in their lives.
”猜你还想看围观不好意思，突然接到抓捕任务，才回来故事武汉大爷：我只要草纸，就别捆绑卫生巾了吧热文逼孩子们吃大锅药，还有比这更荒唐的吗？点击购买最新一期《南风窗》。
I just need some grass paper, so don't tie up the sanitary napkin. Is it any more ridiculous to force children to take a big pot of medicine? Click on the latest issue of Window of the South.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
北京家政工：无法返京，无处隔离，无工可做。
Beijing domestic workers: unable to return to Beijing, nowhere to isolate, no work to do.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "南风窗";。
Var nickname = & quot; South Window & quot;;
var msg_title = "北京家政工：无法返京，无处隔离，无工可做";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; Beijing domestic worker: Not able to return to Beijing, nowhere to be isolated, or at least & quot; without work.
var msg_desc = "他们该何去何从？";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Where did they go?;
title: '不好意思，突然接到抓捕任务，才回来',。
Excuse me, but I just came back at & apos; with a surprise arrest.
subject_name: '南风窗',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '武汉大爷：我只要草纸，就别捆绑卫生巾了吧',。
Uncle Wuhan: I only wanted grass paper. Don't tie up sanitary towels.
subject_name: '南风窗',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '逼孩子们吃大锅药，还有比这更荒唐的吗？',。
Is there anything more absurd than forcing a child to take a big pot of medicine?
subject_name: '南风窗',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="南风窗";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
