开不了工，程序员、理发师、创业者都去送外卖了。
Unable to work, programmers, hairdressers, entrepreneurs are sent to take away.
余鑫 罗佳。
Yu Xin Luo Jia.
南风窗                      。
South Window.
南风窗。
South Window.
冷静的力量。
The power of coolness.
多年以后，理发师高为谋如果还在干这行，准会想起2020年春天这个特殊的二月二。
Years later, Hairdresser Gao Wei-wei would have thought of a special February 2, 2020, if he were still in the business.
这一天，他打工的理发店仍旧闭着门，座椅上落满灰，彩虹灯也不亮了，打开微博，呼唤“Tony老师”的声音遍地都是。
On this day, the barber shop he worked in was still closed, his seat was dusty, the rainbow lights were dim, microblogging was opened, and the voice of "Mr. Tony" was everywhere.
而他，正在南京的街头送外卖。
He, on the street in Nanjing, was delivering takeaway.
Tony老师是对理发师群体的一种善意调侃。
Tony is a good joke on the hairdresser community.
疫情之下，人们一个月居家未出，男女老少，发丝枝蔓，无比怀念曾经不以为意的理发师。
Under the epidemic, people stay at home for a month, men, women and children, hair filament branches, can not miss the once disagreeable barber.
理发师去哪儿了？他们中有人为即将上前线的医护人员理发，降低他们感染病毒的几率，也维持着美丽和尊严。
Where's the barber? Some of them cut the hair of the medical staff going to the front line, reducing their chances of contracting the virus and maintaining their beauty and dignity.
但更多的人，因为疫情开不了工。
But many more will not be able to do so because of the epidemic.
原定于正月十四返沪的按摩技师贾鹏飞，留在了北方小城宝鸡。
Jia Peng-fei, a massage technician originally scheduled to return to Shanghai on January 14, stayed at Baoji, a small northern city.
按摩店一直关着门，老板不说，大家也都只能心照不宣。
The massage parlour kept the door closed. The boss said nothing and everyone had to keep his mouth shut.
程序员张琦在数月前辞职，换了城市，打算重新开始，疫情让他的求职蒙上了一层阴影。
A few months ago, programmer Zhang Qi resigned and moved to a new city, casting a shadow over his job search.
在这个过于漫长的冬天，寻找一份付出与回报成正比的工作，并没那么容易。
In this too long winter, it is not so easy to find a job that pays well in proportion to the reward.
还有昆明一家洗车场的老板、90后创业者高鹏，他看着怀孕的新婚妻子，推迟开张、生意冷清的洗车场，这位年轻人决定无论如何，都要承担起父亲、丈夫的责任。
There is also a Kunming car wash owner, 90-post-founder Gao Peng, who looked at his new wife, delayed the opening of a business, car wash, and decided to take on the responsibilities of father and husband no matter what.
他们也选择了骑上自动车，开始送外卖。
They also chose to ride an automatic car and start delivering takeout.
四人的故事是疫情期间中国用工形态转移的缩影。
The story of the four men epitomizes the shift in Chinese employment patterns during the epidemic.
来自美团的数据显示，从2020年1月20日到2月23日，7.5万名劳动力成为他们的新骑手，这一数据还在稳步增长，这家企业预期将以长期就业和灵活就业相结合方式向全国提供逾20万个工作岗位。
Between January 20 and February 23, 2020, 75,000 workers became their new riders, according to data from the US Mission, which expects to provide more than 200,000 jobs nationwide through a combination of long-term employment and flexible employment.
成为骑手之前，贾鹏飞从未真正了解过送外卖这个职业。
Before becoming a rider, Jia Peng-fei had never really understood the delivery profession.
在上海工作的日子，他曾在一家便利店里，与一位湖南的外卖小哥有过一次短暂交集。
While working in Shanghai, he had a brief encounter with a Hunan take-out brother in a convenience store.
当时已经晚上10点，他买了一份便当，趴在便利店的就餐区，神情疲惫。
It was 10 p. m., and he bought a handy place to lie in the convenience store dining area, looking tired.
从早上7点到10点，他已经在街上奔波了15个小时。
He had been running the streets for 15 hours from 7 a.m. to 10 a.m.
贾鹏飞询问他的收入，他说有8000元到12000元，有时候也只能拿到7000多。
When Jia Peng-fei asked about his salary, he said that there were 8000 yuan to 12,000 yuan, and sometimes only 7000 yuan.
辛苦——是贾鹏飞对骑手这份工作的印象。
Hard - is Jia Peng-fei's impression of the rider's job.
现在，他开始重新认识这个行当。
Now he was beginning to get to know the business again.
这份工作看似简单，其实也需要诸多服务技巧。
The job may seem simple, but it also requires a lot of service skills.
几天前，因为着急赶路，洒了点汤出来，他又没沟通好，顾客给了一个差评。
A few days ago, because anxious to rush, spilled some soup out, he did not communicate well, customers gave a poor review.
不过，也有一些温暖的时刻。
But there are also some warm moments.
有一次，晚上10点半他送餐时，发现顾客已经在门口等了好久。
At half past ten in the evening he noticed that the customer had been waiting at the door for a long time.
那天夜里挺冷温度在零下。
It was rather cold that night. It was below zero.
走的时候，他跟贾鹏飞说“注意安全”。
When he left, he and Jia Peng-fei said, "Pay attention to safety."
他们的故事是疫情中无数普通人的写照。
Their story is the story of countless ordinary people in the epidemic.
生活遭遇困境，他们选择面对，寻找出路，也重新审视责任、亲情与爱情。
Life encountered difficulties, they choose to face, find a way out, but also re-examine the responsibility, family and love.
以下是他们的口述：张琦，90后，程序员，扬州换了城市找工作不容易，送外卖收入跟付出成正比我从2月3日开始送外卖，还不满一个月。
The following is their dictation: Zhang Qi, 90 years later, programmer, Yangzhou change the city to find a job is not easy, send out sales income and pay directly proportional to I started February 3 delivery, less than a month.
其实是没有选择了才做这个选择。
In fact, there is no choice to make this choice.
我今年24岁，河南人，现在在江苏扬州生活。
I am 24 years old, from Henan Province, and now I live in Yangzhou, Jiangsu Province.
上一份工作是敲代码的，在北京。
The last job was tapping code in Beijing.
程序员这种职业，看起来似乎很忙，但其实不同的公司不一样。
A programmer's career may seem like a busy one, but it's different from one company to another.
有那种死命加班累得要死要活的公司，也有业务进入稳定期，能比较规律上下班的公司。
There is a kind of desperate overtime to die to live the company, but also business into a stable period, can be more regular commuting companies.
我之前的工作属于后面这种。
My previous job belonged to the latter.
之前的公司实在太悠闲了，工作挺轻松的，感觉没有什么发展前途，也学不到东西。
Before the company is really too leisurely, the work is quite relaxed, feel that there is no future, also can not learn things.
我们的项目经理在那儿待了好多年，才混到那个位置。
Our project manager stayed there for years before he got into that position.
签五年合同，就可以在北京摇车、买房，但是我不想过那种日子了，就离职了。
If I sign a five-year contract, I can buy a rickshaw and a house in Beijing, but I don't want to live like that anymore.
一开始是打算换一家公司的。
It was intended to start with a new company.
中间因为一些事耽搁了，几个月没找工作。
In the middle of something delayed, months did not find a job.
前段时间，有个关系好的网友问我要不要来扬州发展。
Some time ago, a good relationship netizen asked me whether I want to come to Yangzhou development.
我这个人很佛系，去过很多城市，对大家都在意的食物、气候都无感，所以对在哪个城市生活无所谓。
I am a Buddhist, I have been to many cities, people do not care about the food, the climate, so there is no matter what city life.
在北京待着也没觉得特别好，别人跟我说可以换个环境。
I didn't feel particularly well staying in Beijing. I was told that I could change my environment.
我想那就试试呗，就来扬州了。
I think I'll give it a try and come to Yangzhou.
之前我以为扬州是个二线城市，工作机会应该不少。
Before I thought Yangzhou is a second-tier city, job opportunities should be quite a few.
到了才发现其实这里没有太多的岗位可选。
Only to find that there are not too many posts to choose from.
比如我想找的程序员岗就没那么好找，这里对它的需求并不大。
For example, I would like to find the programmer post is not so easy to find, here is not much demand for it.
扬州的普遍工资水平也不敢恭维，基础岗位比如保安和洗车工，一个月工资也就三四千块钱。
The average wage in Yangzhou is less than flattering, with basic jobs such as security and car washing costing three or four thousand a month.
来了之后租了个公寓。
I rented an apartment when I arrived.
一开始不知道市场行情，是按照北京的心里价位租的。
At first did not know the market situation, is in accordance with Beijing's heart price rent.
后面发现其实租贵了，也没有办法了。
Later found in fact rent expensive, there is no way.
过年的时候一个人在这边，哪里也去不了，待在租的公寓里。
On the New Year's Eve a person on this side, can not go anywhere, stay in the rented apartment.
因为不太会做饭，每天点外卖。
Order take-out every day because you can't cook very well.
本来打算年后找工作的，没想到碰上了这场疫情。
I was going to look for a job after next year, but I didn't expect to encounter the epidemic.
疫情期间更加没有公司招人，可以选择的机会就更少了。
During the epidemic, companies are less likely to hire and have fewer options.
公寓每个月有房租，真是计划赶不上变化。
The apartment pays rent every month, so the plan can't keep up with the change.
反正最后看下来，感觉送外卖还算是不错的选择。
Anyway, at the end of the day, feel like delivery is still a good choice.
当骑手门槛低，虽然累，工资相比其他的工作还是要高一点。
When the rider's threshold is low, though tired, the pay is a little higher than in other jobs.
受疫情影响，最近订单不是特别多。
Orders have not been particularly high recently because of the epidemic.
早晨一般没有什么单，我九点到十点才出门，中餐时间忙一点，到下午两三点又闲下来了，晚餐时会忙一阵。
I usually don't have a list in the morning. I don't go out until nine to ten, I'm busy at lunch, and then I'm free at two or three in the afternoon.
之后就没什么订单了，我八九点就回去了，特殊时期对我这种新手来说可能是个缓冲。
There were no orders left, and I went back at 8 or 9: 00. Special times can be a buffer for a novice like me.
我以前天天点外卖，什么情况都碰到过。
I used to take out everything.
最极端的一次，我点的饭菜超时一个小时送到的。
In the most extreme case, my order was served an hour late.
当时骑手解释说摔了一跤，我朋友特别生气，我倒觉得还好。
When the rider explained that he had a fall, my friend was very angry and I felt fine.
还有一次，点餐等太久我太饿就又点了一单。
Another time when I was too hungry I ordered another order after waiting too long for a meal.
饭都吃完了，第一份单才送到。
The meal was finished and the first order was delivered.
顾客点餐最基本的需求不就是让餐比较快地完整送到么。
The most basic requirement for a customer's order is to have the meal delivered more quickly and completely.
等我自己送外卖了，就发现时间真的很紧。
When I take it out myself, I find the time is really tight.
因为人手少，最近系统派的单有些不太顺路。
Due to the small number of staff, the system recently sent a bit of a bumpy.
商家人手也不够，出餐比较慢。
Businesses are understaffed and slow to go out.
我们送的那片有个商场，不让骑手进去，有单子需要商家送下来。
We sent a shopping mall where riders were not allowed in. There was a list that needed to be delivered.
商家店里可能也只有一个人，有时好多单一起做了送下来。
There may be only one person in the shop, and sometimes a lot of orders are delivered together.
我前几天就送了一单，拿到餐的时候就已经超时三分钟了。
I gave you a order the other day, and it was three minutes too late for dinner.
另外有时候导航不太准。
Sometimes the navigation is not accurate.
因为疫情有些路封掉了，路线会有点绕。
Because some of the roads have been closed, the route will be a little circuitous.
这些都可能导致超时。
These can all lead to timeouts.
不过，疫情期间，小区不让进，东西都直接放门口，倒是帮我节省了点时间。
However, during the outbreak, the small area is not allowed to enter, things are placed directly at the door, but to help me save a little time.
可能从骑手到顾客大家都要互相体谅一下吧。
Maybe everyone from the rider to the customer needs to understand each other.
前两天汤撒了，客观讲，确实责任不在于我，商家的餐盒比较薄，全碎了，汤就撒了，不是晃出来的。
Two days ago soup, objectively speaking, the responsibility does not lie with me, the merchant's lunch box is thin, broken, the soup spread, not out.
那一单是酸菜鱼，应该是48块钱，我就跟客户说加微信赔给他。
It was a pickled fish. It was supposed to be $48. I told my client to pay him by microphone.
48块钱，我当时说赔就赔了。
Forty-eight dollars. I said I paid for it.
没转变思路来，其实像我这种一单五块钱挣辛苦钱的人，不应该这么想。
Not to change their minds, in fact, like me a single five dollar hard-earned money people, should not think so.
不过顾客回家处理了一下，跟我说不用赔钱。
But the customer came home to take care of it and told me not to lose money.
他们人还挺好的。
They're pretty good people.
我到现在遇到的顾客都挺好说话的。
The customers I've met so far are easy to talk to.
新手经常会遇到的问题，比如超时、餐撒了或者拿错餐，其实我都犯了。
Novice people often encounter problems, such as overtime, the spread of meals or take the wrong meal, in fact I have committed.
但顾客都比较体谅，可能这和我认错态度挺好也有关系，知道错了我就认错。
But the customer is more considerate, perhaps this and I admit the wrong attitude is very good also have a relationship, know wrong I admit wrong.
不管是对着电脑还是骑电动车在外面跑，对我而言都是工作。
Whether it's running outside on a computer or an electric car, it's work to me.
一些资深的骑手，基本全年无休，我现在才干一个月还没感到特别累。
Some senior riders, basically all year round off, I am now able to a month without feeling particularly tired.
之前天天坐办公室看着电脑，按时按点下班，有周六周末休息，相比较而言，当然是骑手更累一点。
I used to sit in my office looking at my computer, work on time and have a Saturday weekend off, but of course the rider was a little more tired.
但有句话说得好，“怕累当什么骑手呢”，来干骑手不就是因为这里收入跟付出成正比，只要努力肯干，工资就会不错。
But there is a good saying, "afraid of fatigue when what rider", to do the rider is not because income is proportional to the pay, as long as you work hard, the wages will be good.
扬州的房租我交了六个月，先看看情况，也是在适应这份工作和这个城市。
Yangzhou rent I paid for six months, first to see the situation, but also to adapt to the job and the city.
我也没想好后面的生活。
I had no idea what life would be like.
我写代码有几个月的空档了，不知道现在这种形势下后面还好不好找工作。
I've been writing code for a few months, and I don't know if I'll be able to find a job in this situation.
当然也有可能当骑手得心应手了，工资也还可以，然后就一直做这行。
Of course it's possible to be a rider, get a decent salary, and do it all the time.
贾鹏飞，80后按摩技师，陕西宝鸡如果当年没转行，我现在也在武汉一线当护士2月3日，正月十四，我做美团骑手的第一天，一共送了7单。
Jia Peng-fei, 80 years later massage technician, if the Shaanxi Baoji did not change profession, I am now in Wuhan as a first-line nurse February 3, January 14, I was a tour rider on the first day, a total of seven.
第一单是一碗米线，顾客是一位30多岁的女性。
The first is a bowl of rice noodle, the customer is a woman in her thirties.
那天天气晴好，风很大，路上没有人，商铺大多关门，街道空荡荡的。
The weather was fine, the wind was strong, the roads were deserted, the shops were mostly closed and the streets empty.
她居住的小区是一家工厂的员工宿舍。
The neighborhood where she lives is an employee dorm in a factory.
我取了餐送到大门口，等了3分钟，她从楼里跑出来，我隔着门把装着米线的塑料袋递给她，她说了声谢谢，转身走了。
I took the meal to the gate and waited for three minutes. She ran out of the building. I handed her the plastic bag with the rice string through the door.
如果没有这场疫情，这一天将是我返回上海的日子。
If it had not been for the outbreak, this day would have been my return to Shanghai.
我是青浦区一家按摩店的康复理疗技师。
I am a rehabilitation physiotherapist at a massage parlour in Qingpu District.
我在上海生活了4年，喜欢那里湿润的气候，以及城市的文明和精致。
I have lived in Shanghai for 4 years and like the humid climate there, as well as the city's civilization and refinement.
我印象很深的一个细节是，在上海，你不能直接用手拿吃的给别人，必须拿盘子托着或用夹子夹着递过去。
One of the details that struck me was that in Shanghai, you can't give food directly to someone else. You have to carry it on a plate or hold it in a clip.
到今年，我从事按摩行业已经11年了。
By this year, I have been in the massage business for 11 years.
上海的按摩店包吃住，每天工作12个小时，多劳多得，每月工资到手8000元～10000元。
Shanghai massage parlour food and accommodation, 12 hours a day, more work, the salary of 8000 yuan to 10000 yuan a month.
在宝鸡，这算是一笔不菲的收入。
At Baoji, that's a lot of money.
我原本计划继续沪漂，挣几年钱再做打算，但疫情改变了一切。
I had planned to continue my career in Shanghai for a few years before planning, but the epidemic changed everything.
1月20日，我从上海回宝鸡过年。
On January 20, I returned to Baoji from Shanghai for the New Year.
疫情急转直下，上海的按摩店关张。
The epidemic has plunged and the massage parlour in Shanghai has been closed.
正月初一，我就和同事私下讨论，复工的时间或将延长，甚至可能需要另做打算。
On the first day of the first month, I discuss with my colleagues in private, the time may be extended, and may even need to make other plans.
整家按摩店一共有40多位员工，食宿已是不小的开支。
The massage parlour has more than 40 employees, and accommodation is no small expense.
老板不说什么时候重新开张，我们也不多问，大家心照不宣。
When the boss didn't say when to reopen, we didn't ask much, everyone was taciturn.
正月初七之后，陆续有七八位同事回沪，至今没有工资，老板仅承担餐饮，但不再负担住宿费。
After the seventh day of the first month, seven or eight colleagues back to Shanghai, so far no salary, the boss only undertake catering, but no longer pay for accommodation.
像我一样就地就业的，也有七八个人。
Like me, there were seven or eight people who were employed locally.
我有家有口，不能一直赋闲在家，于是决定留在宝鸡当美团骑手。
I had a family and couldn't stay at home all the time, so I decided to stay at Baoji as a rider.
我的一位发小做了近半年的骑手。
One of my hairdressers has been a rider for nearly half a year.
我们很久没有联系，春节闲聊时他告诉，在宝鸡，美团骑手的收入可观，于是决定试试看。
We haven't been in touch for a long time, he told Chicken during the Spring Festival, the American rider's income is considerable, so he decided to give it a try.
宝鸡是一座关中小城，人口不到上海的零头，我在这里出生、成长，也在这里结婚生子。
Baoji is a small city in Guanzhong, less than the population of Shanghai, where I was born, grew up, married and had children.
正月初一，陕西省启动突发公共卫生一级响应。
On the first day of January, Shaanxi Province launched a public health emergency response.
恐慌蔓延到了故乡这座小城。
The panic spread to the town of my hometown.
商店相继关门，市民开始闭门不出，外卖骑手成为城市的刚需。
Shops are closing, citizens are closing, and take-out riders are the city's last resort.
谁都知道疫情汹汹，在外奔波有风险。
It is well known that the epidemic is menacing and dangerous to travel outside.
但是，我们这种年轻力壮的不出来，还能指望谁出来跑呢？于是，1月30日，我通过朋友介绍，去见了现在的站长，第二天便领了工作服。
On January 30th, I was introduced by my friends and went to see my current stationmaster, and the next day I received my overalls.
他也是这个站点的骑手，我们现在成了同事。
He's also a rider on this site, and we're working together now.
上岗第一天， 上午十点，站长安排了一位老骑手跟我一起送单。
On the first day of duty, at 10 a.m., the stationmaster arranged for an old rider to deliver the bill with me.
他在一旁观摩，指点我操作流程，诸如手机上如何接单、取餐、配送等。
He watched and showed me how to do things, such as picking up orders, taking meals and distributing them on the phone.
一般来说，从骑手接单到配送完成，需要30分钟，这其中还包括餐厅制作的时间。
Generally speaking, it takes 30 minutes from the time the rider takes to get the order to the delivery, which also includes the time taken to make the restaurant.
下午两点多，我开始独自送餐。
After two o'clock in the afternoon, I began to deliver meals alone.
因为疫情，我们这个片区，开门营业的仅有一家牛肉面馆、一家米线馆，还有几个商超市和药店。
Because of the outbreak, the only open area in our area is a beef noodle shop, a rice noodle shop and a few commercial supermarkets and pharmacies.
和其他的城市一样，宝鸡最繁忙的地方也是医院。
Like other cities, the busiest place for baoji is the hospital.
在关中小城，恐惧同样在蔓延。
Fear is spreading in the small city of Guanzhong.
城市突然空了，市民闭门在家，安静得让我陌生。
The city suddenly empty, the citizens are closed at home, quiet so that I do not know.
因为疫情的缘故，最近我经常想起从前当护士的日子。
Because of the epidemic, I often think of my former days as a nurse.
我是护理学毕业的，在成为按摩师之前也曾做过呼吸内科的护士。
I graduated from nursing and had been a nurse in respiratory medicine before becoming a masseuse.
春节之后，六位昔日同窗，已经相继奔赴武汉一线。
After the Spring Festival, six former classmates have rushed to Wuhan.
我在新闻里，看到医护年夜饭吃泡面，说不出的心酸。
In the news, I saw the medical dinner to eat noodles, inexpressibly sad.
如果当年没有转行，不知道我现在是否也在武汉。
If I didn't change my profession, I don't know if I am in Wuhan now.
2003年非典肆掠，我正好在吉林省吉林市一家三甲医院实习。
SARS swept in 2003, I happen to be Jilin Province Jilin City, a triple A hospital internship.
我和几位同学被调去了该医院的传染科支援，负责照顾、隔离发热病人。
Several of my classmates and I were transferred to the hospital's infection department to take care of and isolate the febrile patients.
当时的防护条件远没有今天好，没有N95、防护服、护目镜，只有48层的纱布口罩。
The protection was far from what it is today, with no N95, protective clothing, goggles, and only 48-story gauze masks.
每隔三小时，我们就需要去更换口罩，用热水清洗，然后消毒、晾干。
Every three hours, we need to change the mask, wash it in hot water, and then disinfect and dry it.
我们的纱布口罩挂在晾衣绳上，白茫茫一片。
Our gauze mask hung on the clothesline, white as a sheet.
那一年我19岁，年轻气盛，不知道什么叫害怕，几个年轻护士还在病房里陪发热患者玩游戏。
I was 19 that year, young and vigorous, do not know what fear, several young nurses are still in the ward with fever patients to play games.
幸运的是，吉林市没有一例“非典”患者，我们也全部平安。
Fortunately, there is not a single SARS patient in Jilin, and we are all safe.
不过，那家医院的护士长去了北京地坛医院支援。
However, the head nurse of the hospital went to Beijing Ditan Hospital for support.
当年，这家医院被称为“非典医院”，收治了大量的患者，医护感染率很高。
The hospital, known as the SARS Hospital, admitted a large number of patients, a high rate of health care infection.
她回东北的时候已经是夏天了。
It was summer when she returned to the northeast.
许多事我已经忘了，但清晰地记得，她说在北京，给患者扎针时，需要戴三层塑胶手套，穿着厚厚的防护服。
Many things I have forgotten, but clearly remember that she said that in Beijing, patients need to wear three layers of plastic gloves and thick protective clothing when stitching needles.
“一位优秀的护士，需要具备这样的技能——即便戴三层手套，也能找准血管，把针推进去。
A good nurse needs the skill to find the right blood vessels and push the needle in, even with three layers of gloves on.
”她说。
'she said.
一些事情必须有人去做，她做了她应该做的事。
Something had to be done. She did what she was supposed to do.
毕业之后，同窗好友各自奔去了全国各地的医院。
After graduation, friends and classmates went to hospitals all over the country.
当时我太年轻，欲望很多，想法也很多。
I was too young, I had many desires, I had many thoughts.
护士的工资偏低，不能满足我。
The nurse's salary is too low to satisfy me.
短暂地从事了半年医护工作之后，我选择离开吉林，去西安另谋生路。
After a brief medical work for half a year, I chose to leave Jilin and make a living in Xi'an.
我后来发现，那一年毕业的男同学，几乎全都转行了。
I later discovered that almost all the male students who graduated that year had changed their profession.
四五年里，我干了无数职业，包括建筑工人、磨眼镜片工人等等。
In the past four or five years, I have worked in countless occupations, including construction workers, eye-grinder and so on.
直到2009年，我重拾护理相关的工作，转行成为一名按摩技师。
Until 2009, I returned to nursing-related work and became a massage technician.
2015年冬天，为了更好的发展，我开始沪漂。
In the winter of 2015, for better development, I began to float Shanghai.
离开陕西之前，我结了婚。
I got married before I left Shaanxi.
上海房价高昂，落户定居显得不太现实，所以妻子留在了宝鸡。
Housing prices in Shanghai are high, it seems unrealistic to settle down, so his wife stayed at Baoji.
因为疫情，我重新审视自己的职业选择，说不后悔是假的。
Because of the epidemic, I re-examined my career choices and said no regrets were false.
人生不只有短期的利益考量，还有职业价值、尊严等等，当年不能理解，现在理解了已经是中年人了。
Life is not only short-term interests, but also professional value, dignity and so on, can not understand, now understand that it is middle-aged.
如果有重来的机会，既然学了护理，我会在这条路上走得更远。
If I had a chance to do it again, I would have gone farther down the road now that I had studied nursing.
我很钦佩那些“逆行”去武汉的同学，这种勇气，不是每个人都拥有的。
I admire those who "retrograde" to Wuhan students, this kind of courage, not everyone has.
其中一位女孩，一直坚守在重症病房。
One of the girls had been stuck in the intensive care unit.
几天前，她在微信里跟我们讲述一线的经历：一个病房里，5位护士照顾8位病人，一天晚上，她一个人换了13罐氧气。
A few days ago, she told us about a line of experience in a ward where five nurses cared for eight patients and one night she changed 13 cans of oxygen on her own.
前几天，她恰好生理期，因为防护服珍贵，需尽量减少穿脱，一天工作下来，裤子都湿透了。
A few days ago, she just physiological period, because of protective clothing precious, need to minimize wear, the day after work, pants are wet.
我的孩子今年四岁，是我的软肋。
My child is four years old and I am weak.
如果做骑手能有不错的收入，又能留在宝鸡照顾家人，我也会考虑长期做下去。
If I could make a good income as a rider and stay at Baoji to take care of my family, I would also consider doing it in the long run.
20多天过去了，虽然有委屈，有不愉快，但也有收获。
More than 20 days have passed, although there have been grievances, unhappy, but also harvest.
我的预期收入是5000～8000。
My expected income is 5000 ~ 8000.
现在，企业已经有序复工，路上有时候还会堵车，高峰时期的订单量开始多了。
Now, businesses are back to work in an orderly fashion, sometimes with traffic jams, and peak-time orders are starting to mount.
但愿一切慢慢向好。
I wish everything would turn out fine.
高鹏，90后创业者，昆明老婆怀孕四个月了，我想多挣点钱没有疫情，我可能还是会做外卖骑手。
Gao Peng, a 90-year-old entrepreneur, Kunming's wife has been pregnant for four months, I want to earn more money no epidemic, I may still be a takeaway rider.
我是昆明人，1992年出生，辗转广州、上海之后，几年前回昆明安家定居。
I am Kunming, born in 1992, after moving through Guangzhou and Shanghai, returned to Kunming a few years ago to settle down.
去年12月，我结婚时，妻子已经怀有身孕。
When I got married last December, my wife was already pregnant.
她之前在美甲店工作，因为妊娠反应，婚后辞职在家待产。
She had worked in a nail shop before and quit her job to give birth after her pregnancy.
一人吃饱，全家不饿的日子过去了，我突然意识到作为一个丈夫和父亲的责任。
When I was fed up and my family was hungry, I suddenly realized my responsibility as a husband and a father.
4年前，我们一家和表哥一家一共投资50万，开了一家洗车场。
Four years ago, my family and my cousins invested half a million dollars to open a car wash.
我和弟弟两个人参与运营，既当老板，也要当工人。
My brother and I were involved in running the business, both as bosses and as workers.
洗车场如今已经走上正轨，投资的本金基本赚回来了。
The car wash is now on track and the principal of the investment has been largely earned back.
按照约定，除了年终分红，我和弟弟两个人轮流去洗车场上班，领一份工资，每月3000元。
According to the agreement, in addition to the year-end bonus, my brother and I took turns to work at the car wash and got a salary of 3,000 yuan a month.
孩子即将要到来，对于我而言，这工资远远不够。
The baby is coming. For me, the salary is far from enough.
一月初，我开始在58同城上找工作。
In early January, I began looking for work in my city of 58.
因为当过司机，又开洗车场，我优先考虑的是网约车司机。
Having been a driver and driving a car wash, I gave priority to the chauffeur.
但是在昆明，网约车的水很深。
But in Kunming, the water is very deep.
我在网上看到一些帖子，有人被黑中介坑骗，交了几千块也没开上车。
I saw some posts on the Internet, some people were deceived by the black intermediary, paid thousands of dollars also did not drive into the car.
于是，我开始考虑外卖骑手，这份工作相对自由、灵活，门槛也不算太高。
So I started thinking about takeaway riders, a relatively free, flexible job with a low threshold.
经过面试之后，1月20日我正式成为美团的骑手。
After the interview, I officially became a rider on January 20th.
说来也巧，站点就在我家隔壁楼栋，上班、沟通都很便捷。
Coincidentally, the site is next door to my building, work, communication is very convenient.
那时候，妻子已经回了娘家，我自己独居。
By then, my wife had returned to my mother's house, and I was alone.
临近春节，昆明依然热闹，外卖订单很多，忙的时候我一天能送36单，算起来，一个月能有6000元～7000元的收入。
The Spring Festival approaching, Kunming is still busy, take out a lot of orders, busy when I can deliver 36, calculated that a month can have 6,000 yuan to 7,000 yuan of income.
然而，仅仅三天之后，武汉的疫情恶化，昆明的氛围也变得紧张起来。
However, just three days later, the situation in Wuhan worsened and the atmosphere in Kunming became tense.
洗车场暂停营业了，各家各户也闭门不出。
The car wash was closed, as were the homes.
正月初一那天，我经常送外卖的小区，出现了一例确诊病例。
On the first day of the first month, I often sent takeaway to the community, there was a confirmed case.
我刚上班几天，就遇到这样的情况，完全是意料之外。
When I first went to work for a few days, I was surprised to see this happen.
妻子得知此事之后，立即给我打电话，“别跑了，回家吧。
When my wife heard about this, she called me immediately. "Don't run away. Go home.
”她焦急地说。
'she said anxiously.
我也想过要不算了，不要工资了，打退堂鼓回家吧。
I also thought about it, don't pay, and back away from home.
新冠肺炎有14天的潜伏期，当时我并不知道自己是否安全，如果贸然回家，传染给她怎么办？此外，这是创业四五年后，第一份正式工作，临阵脱逃不负责任。
The incubation period of 14 days, I did not know whether I was safe, if I rushed home, infected her? In addition, this is four or five years after the first formal job, escape irresponsible.
考量在三，我决定不回家，继续送外卖。
On the third count, I decided not to go home and continue to deliver.
春节原本是云南的旅游旺季，因为疫情，旅游市场滑入冰点。
Spring Festival was originally a tourist season in Yunnan, because of the epidemic, tourism market slid into freezing point.
人流减少，景点关门，市民闭门不出，外卖订单大幅减少。
People decreased, attractions closed, citizens closed doors, take-out orders significantly reduced.
城里仍然坚持营业的，只有少量的餐饮店、水果店和药品店。
Only a small number of restaurants, fruit shops and drug stores remain open in the city.
今年冬天，昆明的天气比往年冷，初一那天还下了雪。
This winter, the weather in Kunming is colder than usual, and it snowed on the first day of the month.
妻子每天给我打电话，询问身体状况，关心防护措施。
My wife calls me every day, asks about my health and cares about protective measures.
她每天抱着手机等我的消息，我给她发微信，她随时都是“秒回”。
She holds my phone every day waiting for my message, I send her a message, she is always "seconds back."
她有四个月身孕，妊娠反应很严重，让她担忧，我感觉非常愧疚。
She was four months pregnant and the pregnancy was so severe that it worried her and made me feel guilty.
我也送过一些医院的订单，水果、餐饮等等，有的送给医护，有的送给住院的病人。
I have also sent some hospital orders, fruit, meals, etc., some for medical care, some for hospitalized patients.
春节期间，美团都是无接触配送，所以我并没有特别恐惧。
During the Spring Festival, the U. S. Mission is contact-free distribution, so I do not have a special fear.
再说，灾难真的要来临，恐惧也是没用的。
Besides, when disaster does come, fear is of no use.
不过，我从来不会告诉父母和妻子，我往医院送餐。
However, I never tell my parents or my wife that I send food to the hospital.
疫情对洗车场的影响很快显现出来。
The impact of the epidemic on the car wash soon became apparent.
往年，我们通常正月初六就开张了。
Normally, we open on the sixth of January.
初八前后是生意最好的几天，一天能洗70多辆车，有时候甚至忙得没时间吃早餐。
Around the eighth day of business is the best days, can wash more than 70 cars a day, sometimes even too busy to eat breakfast.
今年，因为疫情，开业的时间一再推迟，一直到2月26日。
This year, due to the outbreak, the opening of the business was repeatedly postponed until 26 February.
而且，即便营业，生意也异常冷清。
And even when it does, business is unusually dull.
我们的洗车场有200平米，一年的租金是12万，关门歇业一天都是不小的损失。
Our car wash yard has 200 square meters, a year's rent is 120,000, shut-down business day is no small loss.
现在想想，我出来做骑手的选择是对的，能减轻不少负担。
Now think of it, I was right to come out as a rider and lighten the load.
我没有上大学，18岁出来工作，在一家化工厂里当工人，工资每月2400元，工厂包吃住。
I didn't go to college. I went out to work at the age of 18 and worked as a worker in a chemical factory.
从工厂辞职之后，我去叔叔承包的建筑工地当过工人，学驾照当过司机，也去上海广州打过工。
After I resigned from the factory, I worked as a worker at my uncle's construction site, as a driver for my driving licence and as a worker in Guangzhou, Shanghai.
时间过得很快，一晃已经十年了。
Time flies, it has been ten years.
洗车场的生意何时能恢复正常，目前仍是未知数。
It remains to be seen when business will return to normal at the car wash.
不过，我对未来依然抱有乐观的态度，疫情终将过去。
However, I remain optimistic about the future and the epidemic will eventually pass.
现在，昆明已经开始有序复工，外卖的订单逐步增加，我每天都能送30多单。
Now Kunming has started to resume work in an orderly fashion, with take-out orders increasing and I can deliver more than 30 orders a day.
春城的天气回暖，风和日丽，在路上奔波也不觉得辛苦。
Spring City warm weather, the wind beautiful, running on the road do not feel laborious.
除夕那天，我跟妻子因为一些小事发生口角。
On New Year's Eve, my wife and I had an argument over some trifle.
她在电话里赌气说：“这个家你不想回来永远别回来了。
"You don't want to come back home," she said angrily on the phone.
”我脾气不好，又在气头上，当天就没有回家。
'I was grumpy and angry, and did not return home that day.
正月初一，送餐的小区发现确诊病例，我回不去了。
On the first day of the first month, the food delivery community found confirmed cases, I can not go back.
为此，我一直充满了愧疚。
For this, I have been full of guilt.
疫情过去之后，我希望好好补偿她。
After the epidemic, I hope to make it up to her.
洗车场是我的事业，如果经营状况良好，我希望未来能开分店。
Car wash is my business, if the management is in good condition, I hope to open stores in the future.
至于骑手这份工作，我暂时还不确定，是否会一直做下去，但在岗的每一天，我都会尽职尽责。
As for the rider this job, I am not sure for the time being, whether will continue to do so, but every day in the post, I will do my duty.
高为谋，95后理发师，南京特殊时期送外卖攒点钱，支持小梦想我是98年生的，在南京送外卖快一个月了。
Gao Wei-mou, 95, hairdresser, Nanjing special period to save some money to support the little dream I was born in 1998, Nanjing delivery almost a month ago.
我老家在安徽凤阳县，凤阳离南京很近，开车两个多小时，老家有很多人都在南京工作。
My hometown is in Fengyang County, Anhui Province. Fengyang is very close to Nanjing and drives for more than two hours.
2018年夏天，我高中毕业之后没考上好学校，也不想复读，就来到了南京。
In the summer of 2018, after graduating from high school, I did not enter a good school, do not want to repeat, came to Nanjing.
凤阳是个小地方，毕业后我还是想出来闯一闯。
Fengyang is a small place, after graduation I still want to venture out.
爸妈也在南京打工，我爸在化工厂，我妈在电子厂。
My parents also work in Nanjing. My father works in a chemical factory. My mother works in an electronics factory.
他们本来也想带我去工厂，我觉得在工厂太枯燥了，还是想学门手艺。
They also wanted to take me to the factory. I thought it was boring and I still wanted to learn the craft.
我看到有理发店招学徒，觉得这个行业“挺酷的”，就想着学学美发，将来可以自己开个店。
I saw a barber shop looking for an apprentice and thought the industry was "cool" and wanted to study hairdressing and open a shop for myself in the future.
学了有一年多，现在还是学徒，感觉这个行业周期有点长，一般都要学三四年才能出师，有点动摇。
After more than a year, is still an apprentice, feel this industry cycle is a bit long, generally have to study for three or four years before leaving the faculty, a bit shaken.
之前一年多，每个月都只能挣一千多，生活上还是需要家里补贴一些。
More than a year ago, each month can only earn more than a thousand, life or the need to subsidize some family.
春节前我就在网上看到了消息，说武汉那边有肺炎，没感觉很严重，我1月19日就回家过年了。
Before the Spring Festival, I read on the Internet, said that Wuhan side of pneumonia, do not feel very serious, I went home on January 19 to celebrate the New Year.
过完年，27号我回了南京，那时候大巴还是通的，后来村里也封路了。
After the New Year, I returned to Nanjing on the 27th, when the bus was still open, and then the village closed the road.
来南京的路上，我感觉到疫情严重了。
On my way to Nanjing, I sensed that the epidemic was serious.
上车和下车都要检查体温，在苏皖交界的地方也检查了一次，进入南京的时候还要扫二维码登记。
Get on and off the car to check temperature, in Anhui Junction place also checked once, when entering Nanjing, but also scan two-dimensional code registration.
到了之后，又在家里隔离了14天，之后拿到居委会开的证明才能出门。
On arrival, he was kept in isolation for another 14 days, after which he could only go out with a certificate issued by the neighborhood committee.
来的时候我就知道，理发店没开门，开业时间还要另行通知。
I knew when I arrived that the barber's shop was open until further notice.
但我想不能闲着。
But I don't think I can be idle.
在家隔离的时候，我就开始在网上找工作，在58同城上看到了美团在招骑手，就报名了。
When I was isolated at home, I started looking for a job online and signed up for the trip after seeing the group recruit riders in the city of 58.
面试之后，他们把我分到了南钢这边的站点。
After the interview, they assigned me to the station on this side of Nangang.
最开始是培训，跟着师父跑了两天，熟悉整个送餐流程。
First is the training, followed the master ran for two days, familiar with the entire food delivery process.
特殊时期，上岗之前还做了安全培训，主要是讲疫情和行车安全。
Special period, before the induction of security training, mainly to talk about the epidemic and road safety.
美团给我们提供口罩，上班时间每四小时换一次，还有一次性的手套、酒精，和免洗的洗手液。
We were provided with face masks, changed every four hours, disposable gloves, alcohol, and wash-free hand sanitizers.
每天早上，站点都会给骑手统一消毒，每次送完一单和回到站点，又要消一次毒。
Every morning, the site will be unified disinfect riders, each time to send a single and back to the site, and to eliminate a poison.
口罩是要全程戴着的。
Masks should be worn throughout the process.
现在不戴口罩都进不去商场取餐，不然别人看你可能就像怪物一样。
You can't get into the mall without a mask now, or you might look like a monster.
每个骑手还配了安心卡，每天要记录体温、消毒的情况，然后拍照上传。
Each rider is also equipped with a comfort card to record the temperature and disinfection every day and then take photos and upload them.
疫情严重，美团推出了“无接触配送”。
The epidemic is serious, and the U. S. Mission has launched "no contact distribution."
在商家取餐之后，一般是送到小区门口的指定地点，再通知顾客下来拿。
After the business takes the meal, is generally sends to the community gate the designated place, then notifies the customer to come down to pick up.
大多数的小区现在都进不去，就只能送到门口。
Most neighborhoods are now inaccessible, so they have to be delivered to the gates.
我也遇到过不太好说话的顾客，他非要我送上楼去，也不相信我的解释，还说要投诉我。
I met customers who were not easy to talk to, and he insisted that I go upstairs, disbelieving my explanation and complaining about me.
我站在小区门口说了半天，最后也没办法，保安给他送过去了。
I stood at the gate of the community for a long time, and finally no way, the security to send him over.
遇上这样不好说话的顾客，头疼死了。
I had a terrible headache when I met such an unspeakable customer.
大多数顾客还是挺好的。
Most of the customers are fine.
有人就会让你把餐放在指定地点，拍张照就行了，也不用在那里等着。
Someone will tell you to put your meal in a designated place and take a picture without waiting there.
还有顾客会说，现在疫情严重，你们出来送餐也不容易，我觉得很暖心。
And customers will say, the epidemic is serious, you do not come out to deliver food is not easy, I feel very warm.
一次有顾客点了汤包和面条，我想着快点送过去，面条干了就不好吃了，送到之后，他还打赏了我八块八。
Once a customer ordered the soup bag and noodles, I thought to send them quickly, the noodles dried is not delicious, after delivery, he also gave me eight yuan and eight dollars.
钱我不在意，但顾客给了我好评。
I don't care about the money, but the customers give me good comments.
还有一次，我送了一单到特警队，点单的姐姐在备注上写：老公记得注意防护，再忙也得好好休息，按时吃饭。
Another time, I sent a order to the special police force, single sister wrote in the remarks: husband remember to pay attention to the protection, then busy also have a good rest, eat regularly.
我觉得这些都很暖心。
I think it's warm.
我们站点周围有两个医院，一个是南钢医院，一个是中大医院，我也去过好多次。
There are two hospitals around our site. One is Nangang Hospital and the other is CUHK Hospital.
之前紧张的时候，南钢医院离大门口一段距离就有一个体温测量点，还要登记身份证号码，送餐也要放在取餐点，不能上楼。
Before the tense time, Nangang hospital from a distance from the door to a temperature measurement point, but also to register identity card number, food delivery should also be placed on the pick-up points, not upstairs.
最近两天可以送上楼去了。
We can send it upstairs in the last two days.
这两个医院都不是定点医院，现在人也很少。
Neither of these hospitals is a designated hospital, nor are there many people today.
我也没觉得紧张，做好防护就行，没必要给自己太大的心理压力。
I also do not feel nervous, do a good job of protection, there is no need to give themselves too much psychological pressure.
医院里的单大多数都是医护人员点的。
Most of the hospital orders are made by paramedics.
我送去医院的一单，一个护士小姐姐点了几份炒饭，她跟我说，现在疫情严重，你们出来送餐也挺不容易的，还给了我一瓶酸奶，我心里挺暖的。
I sent to the hospital, a nurse and sister ordered a few fried rice, she told me that the epidemic is serious, you are not easy to come out to deliver food, I gave me a bottle of yogurt, I feel warm.
我没有什么别的东西，我只能给她们送送餐，她们也挺不容易的，我心里也想着，赶紧给她们送过去，让她们能吃口热饭。
I had nothing else to offer but a meal, and it was not easy for them, I thought to myself, and I hastened to bring them a hot meal.
美发行业学成之后，在南京一个月能拿大几千，但竞争还是激烈，也挺辛苦的。
After the completion of the hairdressing industry, Nanjing can take a few thousand a month, but the competition is still fierce, also very hard.
每天早上九点营业，晚上要是有客人来烫头的话，那就要等烫完才能休息了。
Every morning at nine o'clock business, if there is a guest to perm, that will have to wait until the end of the ironing.
找骑手工作的时候没想太多，觉得只要防护做好了，应该没什么事。
Looking for the rider to work with too much thinking, as long as the protection is done, should be nothing.
因为外卖员一直都在上班，也不是我一个人，街上的环卫工人也在工作。
I wasn't the only one who worked all the time, and the sanitation workers on the street were working too.
这两天街上的店铺已经慢慢开始营业了。
The shops on the street are beginning to open slowly these two days.
以前感觉，外卖行业每天跑东跑西，也不容易。
The take-out food business used to feel like it wasn't easy to run east and west every day.
现在我每天工作八九个小时，分早中晚三班，每周还可以选择休息一天。
Now I work eight or nine hours a day, working three shifts in the morning and one day off a week.
我是新手，每天送个三四十单吧，算了算，加上奖金和补贴什么的，应该可以拿到四五千块钱。
I'm a beginner. Give me thirty or forty a day, and I reckon I'll get four or five thousand dollars with bonuses and subsidies.
我是独生子，爸妈刚开始还是挺担心的，他们说送外卖接触的人多，我就跟他们解释，会自己做好防护，站点也会给我们消毒。
I was an only child, and my parents were worried at first. They said there were a lot of takeaway contacts, so I explained to them that I would protect myself and the site would disinfect us.
他们的厂子都还没有开工，还在老家。
None of their factories have started yet. They are still in their hometown.
我想着，疫情结束了再接着干一段时间，送餐也还行，给自己攒点积蓄。
I thought, after the epidemic ended to continue to work for a while, food delivery is OK, to save some of their own savings.
之后，还是想去学门手艺，看看有什么好的行业。
After that, still want to learn a craft, see if there is any good industry.
我们老家人很多在这边开饭馆，还有其他各行业打工的，我可能也考虑一下学一下厨师什么的。
A lot of our old folks are here to open restaurants and there are other kinds of workers, and I might want to think about learning about chefs.
人都是有点小梦想的，我还是想，自己要有点积蓄，来支持自己的小梦想。
People are a little small dream, I still want to have a bit of savings to support their own small dreams.
本文仅代表作者观点，不代表平台立场作者 | 余鑫 罗佳统筹| 张鹏霞排版 | GINNY点击购买最新一期《南风窗》。
This article represents the author's views, not the platform's position & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
开不了工，程序员、理发师、创业者都去送外卖了。
Unable to work, programmers, hairdressers, entrepreneurs are sent to take away.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "南风窗";。
Var nickname = & quot; South Window & quot;;
var msg_title = "开不了工，程序员、理发师、创业者都去送外卖了";。
var msg _ title = & quot; not at all. Programmers, hairdressers, and entrepreneurs all went to see off & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var msg_desc = "他们的故事，是疫情期间中国用工形态转移的缩影";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; Their story is a microcosm and quot; of China's shift in job patterns during the epidemic.
var title ="南风窗";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
