火线ICU：抢救重症患者。
Fire line ICU: Rescue severe patients.
向治霖。
To treat Lin.
南风窗                      。
South Window.
南风窗。
South Window.
冷静的力量。
The power of coolness.
梁文接触的第一例新冠肺炎病人，是位83岁的老爷子，那是在2020年1月14日的下午2点，从普通病房转到ICU来的。
Liang's first contact with the patient was an 83-year-old man who was transferred from the general ward to the ICU at 2: 00 pm on January 14, 2020.
同一天出现了第二例，是位70多岁的老太太，她也被收治到了ICU。
The second case occurred the same day, a 70-year-old woman who was admitted to the ICU.
两位老人的情况，构成梁文对疫情初期的印象，“没过多久，四五天吧，老爷子痊愈出院了，但老太太转去了金银潭，不清楚后面的情况”。
The situation of the two old men, which formed Liang Wen's impression of the early stage of the outbreak, "It was not long before four or five days later, the old man was cured and discharged.
同是感染新冠病毒，有人轻症，有人重症，有人痊愈，有人死亡。
Also infected with the new crown virus, some mild, some serious, some recovered, some died.
我们还不清楚它的作用机制。
We don't know how it works.
有专家归纳发现，新冠肺炎病人从发病起，3周之内定生死。
Some experts conclude that the patients with new crown pneumonia from the onset of life and death within three weeks.
是生？是死？3周限期未到，谁也说不准。
Is it life or death? No one can tell until the three-week limit is up.
梁文是武汉江夏区第一人民医院ICU的护士长，看护的都是重症病人，处在限期之内。
Liang Wenwen is the head nurse of ICU of Wuhan Jiangxia District First People's Hospital.
她要盯紧病人的状态，随时调整医护措施，帮助他们度过最艰难的时期。
She keeps an eye on her patients and adjusts them to help them through the toughest times.
“最难接受的是，有的病人，你看到他好转了。
"The hardest part is that there are patients you see getting better.
他慢慢脱离呼吸机，改为无创，甚至高流量通气，你就以为他一定会好起来。
He slowly gets out of the ventilator, becomes noninvasive, even high flow ventilation, and you think he's going to be fine.
但是没两天，他突然就恶化了、去世了。
But within two days, he suddenly deteriorated and died.
”梁文说着，语带哽咽。
"said Liang, with a lump in his voice.
这样的事，在ICU里经常发生。
This happens all the time in the ICU.
护士的好消息梁文不敢放松，ICU里有20张床位，在年初住满后，几乎没有空置过。
The good news for nurses is that Liang dared not relax. With 20 beds in the ICU, he was almost empty after his occupancy at the beginning of the year.
病人一批接一批，来的都是重症患者，病情变化很快。
One patient after another came, all of them critically ill, and their condition changed rapidly.
相比轻症患者，他们的不同之处，在于肺部纤维化的程度更高，体现为严重的呼吸衰竭。
They differ from light patients in that the degree of pulmonary fibrosis is higher in the form of severe respiratory failure.
根据国家卫健委的统计，在武汉的新冠肺炎病人中，重症患者的比率在20%左右。
According to the National Fitness and Health Commission, Wuhan in the new crown pneumonia patients, serious patients in the rate of about 20%.
轻症患者可以自主呼吸，或者使用简单的辅助，比如吸氧面罩。
Patients with mild illness can breathe on their own or use simple aids, such as an oxygen mask.
但对重症患者，普遍使用了无创呼吸机。
However, non-invasive respirators were widely used in severe cases.
再严重些，就要用到气管插管，甚至是心肺复苏、抢救。
More serious, the need to use tracheal intubation, or even cardiopulmonary resuscitation, rescue.
武汉金银潭医院重症隔离区病房没有哪种措施有“体验”可言。
Wuhan gold and silver pool hospital intensive care ward has no kind of "experience" to speak of.
这是当然。
Of course.
比如说，相对算好的无创呼吸机，虽不造成伤口，但它不断地给病人送气、抽气，病人一定要配合它的节奏。
For example, the relatively good non-invasive breathing machine, although it does not cause wounds, but it continues to give the patient ventilation, suction, patients must match its rhythm.
该吸气时吸，该吐气时吐，用身体来配合机器设定。
It is time to inhale, to exhale when vomiting, and to use the body to match the machine settings.
但凡病人想讲话、想喝水，或突然有点不舒服，没能跟上机器的节奏，它就可能把气打到胃里面去，容易引起腹胀等状况。
But if a patient wants to talk, drink water, or suddenly feels uncomfortable and fails to keep up with the rhythm of the machine, he may blow air into his stomach, causing distension and other conditions.
这种适应，需要一个过程。
This adaptation requires a process.
“你能看到，他们是非常恐惧的。
"You can see that they are very frightened.
”梁文说。
"said Liang.
绝大多数人不懂治疗知识，在用到伴随痛苦的设备时，有的患者会很绝望，问：“为什么上这个？我是不是变严重了？是不是快不行了？”他们缺乏安全感，所以在乎任何一件小事。
Most people don't know anything about treatment, and when they use painful devices, some people are desperate and ask, "Why are you doing this? Am I getting worse? Is it getting worse?" They are insecure, so they care about any little thing.
梁文说，在ICU里，有的人会死死盯着输液，很怕他的药液没有输进去。
'In the ICU, some people stare fixedly at the infusion, 'he said,' fearing that his fluid doesn't get in.
有的人对供氧设备不放心，怀疑氧气没有给到位。
Some people are unsure about the oxygen supply equipment and doubt that the oxygen is in place.
只要医护人员走过，他们就一直找话说，希望把人留在床边。
As soon as the paramedics passed, they kept looking for someone to talk to, hoping to keep them by the bed.
他们问东问西，极少数还会出口伤人。
They ask questions, and very few hurt others.
梁文说，这都是焦虑的表现。
'It's all a sign of anxiety, 'Mr. Liang said.
在交流中，除了必要的治疗上的询问，梁文也会鼓励他们。
In the communication, in addition to the necessary medical inquiries, Liang will also encourage them.
“我喜欢用正能量的事例，比如院里的谁，重症的好转了，甚至转轻症了；哪个床位的病人出院了，来给他们增加信心。
"I like to use positive energy examples like who in the hospital is getting better, or even a mild illness, and which bed patient is discharged from the hospital to give them more confidence.
”梁文说。
"said Liang.
病人需要好消息，尽管那不是全部。
Patients need good news, though not all of it.
江苏来的支援队其实，梁文也需要好消息。
Jiangsu's support team actually, Liang Wen also needs good news.
她一个多月没回家了，除夕夜是在医院过的，大年初一回了趟家，只是收拾行李。
She did not return home in more than a month, New Year's Eve is in the hospital, New Year's Day back home, just pack up.
1月下旬，武汉进入“战时状态”，她和其他医务人员一样，在医院吃住，进行自我隔离。
In late January, Wuhan entered a "state of war." Like other medical staff, she ate and stayed in the hospital, isolating herself.
走的时候，家人一直望着她的背影。
As she left, her family kept looking after her.
她忍着不哭，直到忍不住。
She resisted crying until she could not help it.
ICU里另一名护士倪宝红，没回过一次家，她不清楚哪天在过节，“反正就在医院上班下班，和平时一样”。
Ni Baohong, another nurse in the ICU, did not return home, she did not know which day in the festival, "anyway at the hospital to work from work, as usual.
即便如此，医护人员依然不够，难以应对在除夕前后暴增的病人。
Even so, health care workers are still inadequate to cope with the surge in patients around New Year's Eve.
不只是武汉本地的医护人员过不了春节，1月23日“小年夜”时，廉海容还以为新冠肺炎离他很远。
Wuhan is not the only local medical staff can not pass the Spring Festival, January 23, "small", Lian Haiyong thought the new crown pneumonia far from him.
他是无锡市江南大学附属医院呼吸内科的专科医生，那天的武汉传出“封城”消息，他意识到了疫情的严重性。
He was a specialist in respiratory medicine at the Jiangnan University Hospital in Wuxi. He realized the seriousness of the outbreak when he heard the news of the closure of Wuhan that day.
对全新的一种病毒，医生也会怕。
Doctors are afraid of a completely new virus.
廉海容科室的年轻人，还对他开玩笑说，如果这病发生在无锡，“要我去上战场的话，我就做个逃兵了”。
Lianhai department of young people, but also joked to him, if the disease occurred in Wuxi, "if I go to the battlefield, I will become a deserter."
廉海容笑答：“病毒暂时到不了无锡，时间还早呢。
LianhaiRong smile answer: "The virus can not temporarily to Wuxi, the time is still early.
”他没想到，就在当晚9点，他将成为第一批江苏援鄂医疗队中的人员。
He didn't expect that at 9 o'clock that night he would be among the first medical teams from Jiangsu Province.
江南大学附属医院支援的第一批人有8个，队长吴小龙是院感科专家，加上廉海容在内的2名医生，以及5名护士，他们在1月26日抵达江夏一院，迅速补充到当地不断告急的医疗队伍中。
The first group of eight people supported by the Jiangnan University Hospital was headed by Wu Xiaolong, a sensory specialist, two doctors, including Lian Hai-yong, and five nurses who arrived at Jiangxia Hospital on January 26.
武汉市红会医院，重症隔离病区，忙碌的护士们病来如山倒，医院成为战场，有武汉本地的医生护士“倒下了”。
Wuhan Red Cross Hospital, severe quarantine area, busy nurses come to the mountain, the hospital has become a battlefield, Wuhan local doctors and nurses "down.
吴小龙到时，将医院的诊疗流程重新布局，规划了污染区、过渡区、清洁区。
Wu Xiaolong arrived, the hospital diagnosis and treatment process re-layout, the planning of contaminated areas, transition areas, cleaning areas.
其他医生护士则在接受紧急培训，3天之后，他们都上了前线。
Other doctors and nurses were given emergency training and, three days later, they all went to the front line.
没有人真的做逃兵。
No one is really a deserter.
程浩然是位年轻的护士，被分到重症组做护理，那是他的专业。
Cheng Haolan was a young nurse assigned to intensive care, which was his specialty.
重症组又分成两队，轮番进入ICU。
The intensive care unit was divided into two groups and rotated into ICU.
现在的ICU，不是平时的“大通铺”或单间，而是由感染科的科室改造来的。
The present ICU, is not usually the "big spread" or single room, but by the infection section of the transformation.
一条约20米长的过道，一边是窗户，另一边是9个病房。
A treaty is a 20-metre hallway with windows on one side and nine wards on the other.
20个重症患者就住在里面。
Twenty seriously ill people live in it.
ICU的日常重症患者没有自理能力，他们氧耗不高，起个身、喝口水，这些平常的行动，对他们都是非常费劲的过程，所以他们几乎不活动，排泄问题也在床上解决。
The daily life of ICU patients who do not have self-care ability, they oxygen consumption is not high, get up, drink saliva, these ordinary actions are very strenuous process for them, so they almost do not move, excretion problems are also resolved in bed.
照顾病人的日常生活，是程浩然基础的护理工作之一。
Taking care of the daily life of patients is one of the basic nursing work.
他也面对着患者的恐惧。
He, too, faced the fears of his patients.
患者的感受是很细腻的，“你对他讲要吃饭，他就会告诉你，他吃不下。
The patient's feelings are delicate. "When you tell him to eat, he tells you he can't eat.
接着，他就会问你，我吃不下是不是快不行了”，程浩然说。
Then, he will ask you, I can not eat is not nearly exhausted, "Cheng Haoran said.
类似的事，不可胜数。
Such things as these are innumerable.
照顾重症患者，要多一分的细腻，以及多很多的风险。
Caring for the seriously ill requires a bit more subtlety and a lot more risk.
程浩然也要面对自己的恐惧。
Cheng Haolan also has to face his own fear.
ICU的护士专业性更强，他们做得比基础护理更多。
ICU nurses are more professional and do more than basic care.
重症患者的病情变化非常快，他们要在床边不断地巡视，观察病人的呼吸、供氧、心律，出现问题要立刻向医生报告，同时做些处理。
Patients with severe illnesses change very quickly. They are constantly on the bedside, observing the patient's breathing, oxygen supply, heart rhythm, reporting problems to their doctor immediately and doing something about them.
新冠病毒的传染性很强，但他们还要做一些高危操作。
The new crown virus is highly contagious, but they still have to do some high-risk operations.
2020年2月6日晚，蔡甸区人民医院隔离病房，铁肖会正在照顾一名患者，给患者喂水。
On the night of February 6, 2020, Tiexiao, the isolation ward of Cai Den District People's Hospital, was taking care of a patient and feeding him water.
比如给病人吸痰，那是有气溶胶的高危环境，要给病人翻身、拍背，促进他们的痰液畅和，给他们做雾化。
For example, give the patient phlegm, which is a high-risk environment with aerosols, to turn the patient over, pat his back, improve their sputum fluid and spray them.
对更重的病人，要给他们做气管插管、心肺复苏，每一项的风险都极高。
For the heavier patients, the risk of each endotracheal intubation and cardiopulmonary resuscitation is extremely high.
他们有最高级别的防护，衣服要穿4层，最里层是自己的衣服，套一件防护服，再套一件隔离服，最后还套一件防护服。
They have the highest level of protection, they wear four layers of clothing, the innermost layer is their own clothing, a suit of protection, a suit of isolation, and finally a suit of protection.
防护服是有胶带的，它把每个通气口封死，身体被闷在里面，没多久就一身汗水。
The suit was taped and sealed off each vent. The body was trapped in it and it soon began to sweat.
口罩方面，他们戴一个N95，再戴一个外科口罩。
For masks, they wear an N95 and a surgical mask.
其他的，比如护目镜、头套、鞋套，以及面罩等，通通加在身上，不在话下。
Others, such as goggles, headgear, shoe covers, and masks, are all added to the body, not to mention.
不过，那也导致平时做惯的操作，现在非常吃力。
However, that also leads to the usual operation, now very difficult.
开始的两天，程浩然一度感到呼吸困难，担心起自己来。
For the first two days, Cheng felt breathless and worried about himself.
他有的时候去抢救病人，比如做心肺复苏时，几个轮回下来，“自己的一口气吸不上来，胸闷、头晕，需要靠着墙歇一下”。
Sometimes he went to rescue patients, such as cardiopulmonary resuscitation, several reincarnation, "his breath can not suck up, chest tightness, dizziness, need to rest against the wall.
2月6日，武汉市蔡甸区人民医院的护士铁肖会，从1月24日起被抽调进入重症隔离病区工作至今就在这种环境里，他们在ICU，一待就是4小时。
February 6, Wuhan Cai Den District People's Hospital nurses Teixiao, from January 24 to work in the severe isolation area has been in this environment, they stay in the ICU for four hours.
梁文解释说，4小时是最高上限，从理论上说，他们做的防护措施，只能保证4小时内的安全。
Leung explained that four hours was the maximum limit and that in theory, the precautions they had taken could only guarantee safety within four hours.
但实际上，由于人员不多，护士之间轮流换班，每天工作时间8小时。
In practice, however, due to the small number of staff, nurses rotate between shifts and work eight hours a day.
三班护士轮流换，才能保持24小时的不间断。
Shift nurses change shifts to maintain a 24-hour uninterrupted period.
“谁上，谁下，全看自己感觉，如果感觉身体行，就把同事换下来”，梁文说，疫情以来，就靠同事间的互相照顾，来维持ICU的运转，没有谁会计较谁。
"Anyone who goes up or down depends on how they feel, and if they feel physically fit, they change their colleagues," Liang said. "Since the outbreak, it has been up to co-workers to take care of each other to keep the ICU running.
唯一的问题或许是，他们也不知道，这样的日子还要持续多久。
The only problem may be that they don't know how long it's going to last.
狡猾的病毒目前为止，新冠病毒疫情的扩散得到控制，但特效药还没有出现，形势依然严峻。
Cunning Viruses So far, the spread of the new crown virus has been controlled, but no specific drugs have emerged, and the situation remains grim.
即便是被寄予厚望的瑞德西韦，被发现有明显的疗效，但它的临床试验结果，至少要等到4月初。
Even the hoped-for Rhetsevius has been found to have obvious benefits, but its clinical trial results will have to wait at least until early April.
这还是乐观的估计。
That is an optimistic estimate.
而在过去的一个月里，探索新冠病毒的过程中，人们逐渐认识到它的“狡猾”。
Over the past month, people have come to recognize its cunning as they explore the new crown virus.
廉海容医生介绍说，他了解到的确诊病例里，核酸检测为阳性的只有30%。
Lian said only 30 percent of the confirmed cases he learned were positive for nucleic acid.
那么，早期以核酸为主的检测办法，实际上漏掉了一大半患者。
Well, early nucleic acid-based testing actually leaves out more than half of the patients.
现在，虽然加上了临床诊断指标，也就是CT影像学检查，但又出现了无症状患者。
Now, despite the addition of clinical diagnostic criteria, that is, CT imaging, asymptomatic patients have emerged.
甚至，还有痊愈出院的病人，再次被检测为核酸阳性。
There were even patients who had recovered from hospital and were again tested positive for nucleic acid.
所以，判断一位病人是不是新冠肺炎患者，很难达到100%的准确率。
So it's hard to tell whether a patient is New Crown Pneumonia with 100% accuracy.
廉海容说，比如现在医院收治的一个小伙，他是雷神山医院的一位建设者，他可能是身体太累了，但却被某医院检测为新冠肺炎。
Lianhairong said, such as the hospital now admitted to a young man, he is a Lei Shenshan Hospital builder, he may be tired, but was tested by a hospital as the new crown pneumonia.
“我一看就感觉不对”，廉海容说，那CT影像不是新冠肺炎的，但有的医生不是专科医生，不容易看到细微的差别。
"I don't feel right at first sight," Lian said, adding that the CT image was not new to pneumonia, but some doctors were not specialists and it was not easy to see the subtle differences.
过了两天，廉海容对小伙做了复查，CT影像显示病灶消失了，果然只是普通肺炎，不是新冠肺炎。
Two days later, Lian Hai-rong did a review of the young man, CT imaging showed that the lesion disappeared, really only ordinary pneumonia, not new crown pneumonia.
但小伙已经被收治在新冠病区，只能再去接受隔离。
But the boys have been admitted to the Crown Colony and have to be quarantined again.
廉海容无奈说道，是或不是新冠肺炎病人，很难被完全确定，难免就有“漏网之鱼”。
Lianhailong helplessly said that is or is not a new crown pneumonia patients, it is difficult to be fully identified, inevitably there are "fish leakage."
而考虑到病毒的传染力，漏网的少数也是不可小觑的。
And considering the infectious power of the virus, the small number of leaks can not be underestimated.
究其原因，目前对新冠病毒的认识还很模糊。
The reason for this is that the current understanding of the new crown virus is still very vague.
我们仍需要继续攻克。
We still need to continue to conquer.
比如说，对新冠病毒如何引起恶化，现在就还没有掌握机制。
For example, there is no known mechanism for how the new crown virus will worsen.
廉海容说，根据他的观察，病毒感染、引起恶化，并没有什么特异性，早期新闻说是老人易感，但它其实覆盖全年龄层。
Lianhairong said he observed that the virus infection, causing deterioration, is not specific, early news that it is sensitive to the elderly, but it actually covers all ages.
程浩然在ICU观察到的是，实际上，30~50岁年龄层的重症患者是最多的。
What Cheng Haolan observed in the ICU is that, in fact, 30-50-year-olds are the most seriously ill.
谁会恶化？也没有特定规律，或说目前没有掌握规律。
Who will worsen? There is no specific rule, or there is no rule at the moment.
正常来说，从染病到痊愈，病灶像山峰一样，有起有落。
Normally, from infection to recovery, the lesion is like a peak, with ups and downs.
但有的病人却是突然恶化的。
But some patients suddenly get worse.
“我们现在发现，很多病人早期一个礼拜时，一点事儿都没有，或者是症状很轻，有的仅仅有点发烧。
"We now find that many patients do not have a problem in the first week, or have mild symptoms, or simply have a fever.
但是，7~10天的样子，有的病人会突然一下子加重，整个肺就白掉了。
However, the appearance of 7 to 10 days, some patients will suddenly suddenly increase, the whole lung will be white.
”廉海容说，并且突然恶化的情况，也没有特定的年龄层。
Lian said there was no specific age group for the sudden deterioration.
突然恶化的病人，情况急转直下，“基本上，生还的希望就不大了”。
In the case of a suddenly deteriorating patient, the situation drops sharply. "Basically, there is little hope of survival."
他强调说，新冠病毒和流感病毒不同，尽管体现的形式接近，但它在医学上是空白的，现在放松警惕还太早。
He stressed that the new cap virus was not the same as the influenza virus and that, although in a similar form, it was medically blank and it was too early to relax vigilance.
在外的孩子不只是轻症患者，看似在痊愈中的重症患者，也会有突然恶化的状况。
Outside the child is not only light disease sufferer, appear to be recovering in the serious patient, also can have the condition of sudden deterioration.
在ICU里，梁文和程浩然都见过很多了。
In ICU, Liang Wen and Cheng Haolan have seen many.
因为没有特效药，他们能做的是支持治疗。
Because there are no specific drugs, all they can do is support treatment.
痊愈要靠患者自身的免疫力。
Healing depends on the patient's own immunity.
支持治疗的措施，从重到轻，依次是心肺复苏、气管插管、无创、高流量通气。
Measures to support treatment range from heavy to light, followed by cardiopulmonary resuscitation, endotracheal intubation, noninvasive, and high flow ventilation.
到最轻的一级，病人就算是轻症患者了。
At the lightest level, the patient is considered a mild case.
但是，因为存在突然恶化的可能，重症患者即便是在康复了，也不代表正在取得胜利。
But, because of the possibility of a sudden deterioration, even when a patient is recovering, it does not mean that he is winning.
有的人还很年轻，“30岁的，40岁的，你以为他们撑过去了，但最后却没有”。
Some people are young, "30, 40, you think they passed, but in the end they didn't."
2020年2月17日，武汉市红会医院，重症隔离病区，护士们正在陪伴安慰一名病情好转的患者。
Nurses accompany a patient who is in remission at Wuhan Red Cross Hospital, an intensive care unit, Feb. 17, 2020.
那是最让梁文难过的时候，她说：“人在一起都是有感情的。
That was the most difficult time for Liang Wen, she said: "People have feelings together.
你鼓励他好起来，他也告诉你，他在好起来了。
You encourage him to get better, and he tells you that he's getting better.
他会跟你讲他的家庭、他的儿子，给你讲他的宠物，还讲他出去以后要干什么。
He will tell you about his family, his son, his pet, and what he will do when he goes out.
我们医患双方，都可以看到他描述的那个很美好的场景了。
We, both doctors and patients, can see the wonderful scene he described.
”“但是，就是在你想不到的一天，突然他的病情恶化了。
"But it was on a surprise day that his condition suddenly got worse.
”梁文说时，语气哽咽着，但她不会把这个状态带到ICU。
"Liang said, with a lump in her voice, but she wouldn't bring it to the ICU.
她会告诉病人的，都是一切会好起来。
She'll tell the patient everything's gonna be okay.
对着家里，她也从不流露软弱。
She never showed weakness in front of the house.
她只会说自己防护很好，吃得好，住得好，一下班就回宿舍。
She would only say she was well protected, ate well, lived well, and went back to her dorm as soon as she got off work.
“在外的孩子，不都是这样吗？”她说。
"Isn't it all the same for kids out there?" she said.
2月17日，武汉市红会医院，重症隔离病区，一名劳累的护士在病房外靠着墙闭眼小憩有一次，父母问她，什么时候能回家？她回的是：“等哪一天，花都开了，天气好了，疫情没有了，我就可以回家了。
On Feb. 17, Wuhan Red Cross Hospital, severe quarantine area, a tired nurse leaned outside the ward to shut her eyes and take a nap. When her parents asked her when she would be able to go home, she replied, "When the flowers are open, the weather is fine, the outbreak is over, and I can go home
”我问梁文，为什么说得这么诗意？她笑了，说：“因为大家都知道，这就是个长久战。
I asked Liang why he said so poetically? She smiled and said, "Because everyone knows it's a long war.
但谁都不知道，哪一天真的能回去。
But no one knows, one day really can go back.
”作者 | 南风窗记者向治霖图片 | 长江日报记者 陈卓编辑| 李少威排版 | CAT南风窗新媒体出品点击购买最新一期《南风窗》点在看让理性的声音传得更遥远。
AT RATE & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
火线ICU：抢救重症患者。
Fire line ICU: Rescue severe patients.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "南风窗";。
Var nickname = & quot; South Window & quot;;
var msg_title = "火线ICU：抢救重症患者";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "没有人真的做逃兵";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="南风窗";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
