疫情时期百步亭：突然进入始料未及的生活。
The Hundred Steps Pavilion in the Epidemic Period: Sudden Incursion into Unexpected Life.
本刊记者。
This print journalist.
南方人物周刊                      。
Southern Character Week.
南方人物周刊。
Southern Character Week.
家住温馨苑的黄新陷入了愁苦之中。
Huang Xin, who lives in a cozy garden, is in a state of sadness.
她丈夫疑似新冠肺炎，高烧十天，无法进食。
Her husband is suspected to have pneumonia, fever for 10 days, unable to eat.
因为生病，丈夫有点消极，唉声叹气，虽然还没有检测确诊，但他觉得自己基本就是新冠肺炎了。
Because of illness, the husband is a bit negative, sigh, although has not been tested to confirm, but he felt that he is basically a new crown pneumonia.
黄新不敢跟外人说，同事们聊起天来，她也不敢出声。
Huang did not dare to tell the outsider, her colleagues chatted, she did not dare to say a word.
“你家有这个病，人家就会有想法，挺恐怖的。
"If you have this illness in your house, people will think about it. It's horrible.
我觉得也没必要说，说的话，别人也帮不到你，是不是？有些苦得自己忍受自己扛”本文首发于南方人物周刊2020年第4期文 |本刊记者 卫毅 陈洋 孟依依 孙凌宇   实习记者 聂阳欣编辑| 雨僧周建平 rwzkjpz@163.com全文约12952，细读大约需要28分钟2月17日，武汉小区封闭拉网排查，志愿者对进出街道的人群进行管控 图/王效万家宴2020年1月18日，小年夜那天，早上刚过8点，百步亭安居苑79岁居民高慧（化名）出门了，她要赶赴一场宴席。
I don't think there's any need to say that what you're saying won't help you either, is it? Some people have to bear it on their own.
上万道菜品将在社区中心里展示。
Tens of thousands of dishes will be displayed at the community center.
她穿了一件17年前的红色休闲衫。
She wore a red blouse 17 years ago.
17年前，她和对门的邻居大姐共制一道菜，取名“邻里情”。
Seventeen years ago, she shared a dish with her neighbor named Neighbourhood Love.
有时她会想起那位已经搬走的大姐。
Sometimes she thought of her eldest sister, who had moved away.
她有点念旧。
She's a bit old-fashioned.
万家宴的食材来自周边超市或菜摊，多半是老人采购烹制。
The meal comes from a nearby supermarket or vegetable stand, mostly purchased by the elderly.
上网买菜对他们是新鲜事，他们中很少人会用微信。
Buying food online is new to them, and few of them use micromail.
吕佳俊此前在实体超市工作，看到生鲜电商的潜力，2019年7月跳槽到一家生鲜电商平台，担任汉口区域经理，负责8个站点，包括百步亭附近区域。
Lu Jiajun, who previously worked in a physical supermarket, saw the potential of a fresh electric business. In July 2019, he moved to a fresh electric business platform and worked as a regional manager in Hankou, covering eight stations, including the area near Bumper Ting.
快过年了，他安排了过年值班表，打算年二十九回老家江苏无锡过年。
The New Year approaching, he arranged the New Year watch list, planning to return home in Wuxi, Jiangsu Province, New Year.
家乡为四川乐山的游洱（化名）1月初匆匆回了一趟老家，和亲人待了一个星期，算是提前过年。
hometown for the Luer in Sichuan Leer (alias) hurriedly back home in early January, stay with relatives for a week, is an early New Year.
游洱在百步亭附近开了一家社区家常菜餐馆。
You'er open a community home-cooked restaurant near the Peier Pavilion.
以往过年，餐馆都不打烊。
In the old New Year, restaurants were closed.
2020年的预定同样火爆，店里从年三十到初十，一楼九桌，二楼十桌，再加五个包间，一共二十多桌，几乎订满。
The year 2020 is also hot, the store from the 30th to 10th, nine tables on the first floor, ten tables on the second floor, plus five bags, a total of more than 20 tables, almost full.
近一半员工没回老家，准备餐厨，来迎接这丰盛之年。
Nearly half of the staff did not return home to prepare for the sumptuous year.
黄新（化名）住在百步亭温馨苑。
Huang Xin (alias) lives in Bai Buting Warm Garden.
她公公以往会给万家宴贡献一个菜，今年则没有。
Her father-in-law used to contribute a dish to the feast, but not this year.
此刻，万家宴的场地，人多了起来，玩龙灯的里三层外三层。
At this moment, the venue of the banquet, more people up to play dragon lantern three-storey.
黄新站在最高点，看人头攒动。
Huang Xin stood at the top and watched the crowd swarm.
宴席的对面，隔着马路，是唱歌的台子，人声喧闹。
Opposite the banquet, across the road, is a singing platform, noisy people.
那排着的桌子前，还有串珠子的、编蚂蚱的、写对联的。
There were beads and grasshoppers at the row of tables, and couplets.
前两天，黄新的儿子要到外地参加比赛，丈夫把儿子从百步亭送到汉口火车站，途经华南海鲜市场。
Two days ago, Huang Xinshen's son will go to the competition, the husband from the hundred-step Pavilion to Hankou Railway Station, through the South China seafood market.
丈夫没戴口罩。
The husband was not wearing a mask.
在差不多的时间，武汉大学社会学院老师梅红去汉口站接从北京回来过年的小孩。
About the same time, Wuhan University School of Social Sciences teacher Mei Hong to Hankou Station to pick up children from Beijing for the New Year.
武汉冬天多雾霾，她比较在意，口罩是过冬必备。
Wuhan winter fog haze, she is more concerned, masks are necessary for the winter.
加上元旦前后已有疫情消息，她更是注意。
Plus the New Year's Day before and after the news, she is more attentive.
但此时的武汉出租车上，司机还没戴口罩。
But at this point in Wuhan taxi, the driver is not wearing a mask.
师傅看她戴口罩，反而奇怪。
Shifu was surprised to see her wearing a mask.
她提醒师傅。
She reminded her master.
师傅笑了：人命在天啊。
Master smiled: Man lives in heaven.
在汉口火车站广场，梅红问岗亭警察，如何到达地下出口，回答她的警察，也没戴口罩。
In Hankou Railway Station Square, Mei Hong asked the guard how to get to the underground exit and answer her police without wearing a mask.
万家宴前后，百步亭派出所的警察孙祥（化名）如同平时那样执勤。
Before and after the feast, the police officer Sun Xiang (alias) of the Bumbuting police station was on duty as usual.
“我来这里好些年，不知道在多少家聊过天，吃过饭。
"I've been here for years, and I don't know how many families I've talked to and eaten.
”他对万家宴的历史了如指掌。
He knew the history of the feast like the palm of his hand.
“最开始居民少，叫百家宴，后来叫千家宴，现在是万家宴了。
"The earliest inhabitants were few, called a hundred feasts, and then called a thousand feasts, and now they are feasts.
”罗秋（化名）的父母住在百步亭悦秀苑，她没住那里。
"Luo Qiu (alias) 's parents live in Yue Xiuyuan, a 100-foot pavilion, where she doesn't live.
她从住处到百步亭，开车要20分钟。
It takes her 20 minutes to drive from her house to the kiosk.
父母家住的是经济适用房。
Parents live in affordable housing.
2016年出嫁前，她在百步亭住了十多年。
Before her marriage in 2016, she lived at the 100-foot pavilion for more than a decade.
百步亭社区一直作为全国样版社区见诸报端。
Bumper Pavilion community has been the national model of the community newspaper.
早年这里是遍地烂泥的荒僻之地。
In the early years the place was deserted and littered with mud.
对许多武汉人来说，这是一个“遥远而陌生”的地方。
For many Wuhan people, this is a "distant and strange" place.
百步亭社区位于武汉城市总体规划中最大的后湖居住新区南端，占地4平方公里。
Baebuting community is located in Wuhan city master plan, the largest Houhu residential new area, the southern end of 4 square kilometers.
二十年间，陆续入住十多万人。
Over the past 20 years, more than 100,000 people have been admitted.
这里是全国文明社区示范点、全国和谐社区建设示范社区，曾被评为全国文化先进社区，是荣获首届“中国人居环境范例奖”的惟一社区。
This is the national civilized community demonstration site, the National Harmonious Community Construction Demonstration Community, has been rated as the national advanced cultural community, is the first "China Habitat Model Award" the only community.
罗秋对这些没什么感觉。
Rachel doesn't feel much about this.
“还算可以吧，小老百姓过日子。
"That's all right, young people.
”悦秀苑门口的万家宴分会场，她只去过一次。
She had been there only once, at the main entrance of the Yuexiu Yuan Family Dinner.
成东（化名）是百步亭的租户，住在文卉苑。
Cheng Dong (alias) is a tenant of the Pavilion and lives at Wenyuan.
她的工作是室内设计。
Her job is interior design.
搬来百步亭社区已经五六年。
It's been five or six years since we moved.
她和父母住在一起，没去过万家宴。
She lives with her parents and has not been to a thousand feasts.
“父母不喜欢凑热闹，我们小区里面每年都有，一家一个菜，社区会派人到每家送一个盘子。
"My parents don't like to take part in the fun. Every year we have a dish in our community. The community sends a dish to each house.
”在成东的印象中，有一年，她妈妈做了一条松鼠鳜鱼，送到万家宴。
"In Cheng Dong's impression one year, her mother made a squirrel mandarin fish and sent it to a banquet.
今年不知什么原因，社区没有送来盘子。
For some reason this year, the community did not deliver the plates.
容敏（化名）之前住在武昌，4个月前她生了孩子，搬到百步亭文卉苑。
Rong Min (not her real name) used to live in Wuchang, but she had a baby four months ago and moved to the Pavilion Venue.
这是百步亭的老社区，房子是她公公婆婆8年前买的，他们也住在附近，方便带孙子。
It was the old neighborhood of the 100-foot pavilion, which her parents-in-law had bought eight years ago and who also lived nearby to bring their grandchildren.
哺乳期的容敏对疫情新闻一直很关注。
Rong sensitive lactation is always concerned about the news of epidemic situation.
2019年12月30日，微信群里，一个护士叮嘱，要戴口罩，勤洗手。
On December 30, 2019, in a microphone group, a nurse instructed to wear a mask and wash his hands frequently.
“百步亭的居民以老年人居多，平时见到的都是40岁以上的。
"The majority of the residents of the 100-foot pavilion are elderly people, usually seen over the age of 40.
”容敏说。
"said Rong Min.
万家宴的参加者以老年人居多，年轻人普遍不太在意。
Most of the participants in the family banquet are old people, young people generally do not care.
万家宴不乏热心之人，高慧是其中一位。
Gao Hui was one of the warm-hearted people at the feast.
她早上去场地帮忙，中午买菜回家，下午又去，再回家已是下午5点。
She helps out in the morning, buys food for lunch, goes back in the afternoon, and goes home at 5 p. m.
“很开心的一件事情。
"It's a very happy thing.
”高慧说，“我喜欢交朋友，喜欢管闲事，我还喜欢帮助别人。
"said Gao Hui." I like to make friends and meddle, and I like to help people.
”2000年，作为第一批入住百步亭的居民，高慧和老伴搬入安居苑。
In 2000, as the first residents to move into the 100-foot pavilion, Ko Hui and his wife moved into Ngai Nga Court.
那年年底，百步亭举办第一届百家宴，菜品只有五十多道。
At the end of that year, the Bumper Pavilion held its first 100-course banquet with only over 50 dishes.
“一人发个碗和筷子，可以品尝。
"A person can serve a bowl and chopsticks, can taste.
”因为觉得新小区绿化好，高慧做了一道菜，叫作“满园春色”。
"Because feel new community afforest good, Gao Hui made a dish, called" full garden spring color ".
她善于创新菜品。
She is good at inventing dishes.
往后的每一年，她都参加百家宴。
Every year thereafter, she went to a hundred feasts.
3年后，百家宴扩大为千家宴。
Three years later, a hundred feasts expanded into a thousand feasts.
那年她做的就是“邻里情”。
What she did that year was "neighbourhood."
2009年，千家宴又扩大为万家宴，菜品达到8146道，创下“展出最多菜品宴会”的吉尼斯纪录。
In 2009, the thousand feasts were expanded to include 8146 dishes, setting the Guinness Record for "The Most Favourite Banquet."
“实际上，那年有13000道菜品，只是很多菜超过了中午12点的送达截止时间，没计算在内。
"There were, in fact, 13,000 servings that year, but a lot of them missed the 12: 00 noon deadline and didn't count.
”高慧对万家宴记忆深刻。
"Gao Hui had a deep memory of the feast.
梅红在武汉大学社会学院做社区工作的研究，去百步亭做过调研。
Mei Hong did research on community work in Wuhan University's School of Social Studies and went to Bumper Pavilion to do research.
这里每年都有民政部门牵头举办社区工作培训班，每年都办好多期。
Every year, civil affairs departments take the lead in organizing training courses on community work, which are held several times a year.
“百步亭是房地产集团打造出来的社区典范，同时是在党组织为中心的模式下建立的新型社区。
"Bumper Pavilion is a community model created by the real estate group and a new type of community based on the model of the Party organization.
是单位制向社区制转变过程中典型的案例，却不是可轻易复制的。
Is the unit system to the community system in the transition process typical of the case, but not easy to replicate.
”梅红说，“万家宴是百步亭的社区文化传统，当时就有意通过社区文化来打造与众不同之处。
"The Banquet is a community cultural tradition," said Mei Hong. "It was designed to be unique through the community culture.
”7年前，高慧的老伴去世，她成为空巢老人。
"Seven years ago, Gao Hui's wife died and she became an empty nest old man.
去参加万家宴对于高慧而言，是一年中的大事。
It was a year's event for Gao Hui to go to a dinner party.
早在11月，她就开始准备，设计了许多方案，每次做好，便拍下照片，传给身边熟人，征求意见，修改数次，最终成型。
As early as November, she began to prepare and design a number of projects, each time well done, to take photographs, pass them on to acquaintances, solicit comments, modify several times, and finally take shape.
1月18日的万家宴开始了，高慧拿出她的菜品——最上层是用心形模具做出来的豆腐，周围是五个心形盒子，里面盛满了石榴，盒子上写着五个小字：我想棒哒哒。
As the January 18 feast began, Gao Hui took out her meals--tofu, made of a heart-shaped mould on the top layer, and five heart-shaped boxes filled with pomegranates. Inside, the box was written in five small letters: I think it was spiked.
左侧是一罐糖果，右侧是两位老人。
On the left is a can of candy and on the right are two old men.
高慧把这道菜称作“幸福食堂”。
Gao Hui called the dish the "Happiness Cafeteria."
“幸福食堂”指的是社区去年开办的老年食堂。
"Happiness canteen" refers to the community last year opened the elderly canteen.
“我一个人生活，自己在家做也不是说不会做，做多了总是剩下，做少了营养又不行。
"I live by myself and do it at home is not to say I can't do it, to do too much is always left, to do less nutrition is not good.
社区有这样的食堂，我觉得很好。
The community has this kind of canteen, I feel very good.
有时候一荤一素一汤，有时候一荤两素一汤，合老人胃口。
Sometimes a meat and vegetable soup, sometimes a meat and two vegetable soup, the elderly appetite.
”高慧说。
"said Gao Hui.
万家宴上，“幸福食堂”被评为“最佳创意奖”。
The "Happy Cafeteria" was named the "Best Creative Award" at the banquet.
1月18日，武汉百步亭社区举办“万家宴”活动图/新华社记者 肖艺九封城之后1月21日，武汉开往荆门的火车上，梅红花了点钱，和家人坐到餐车里。
On January 18, Wuhan Baibuting community held a "feast" activities map / Xinhua News Agency reporters Xiao Yi Jiufeng City, January 21, Wuhan on the train to Jingmen, Mei spent a little money, and the family sat in the dining car.
这里更宽敞，有利于防止病毒侵袭。
This is more spacious and helps prevent viruses from invading.
她和家人正前往荆门老家过年。
She and her family are going to Jingmen home for New Year.
餐车里除了两位江浙游客，大家都戴了口罩。
Except for two Jiangsu and Zhejiang tourists in the dining car, everyone wore masks.
头一天晚上，钟南山在新闻里说，病毒已出现人传人现象。
The first night, Zhong Nan Shan said in the news that the virus has appeared in person-to-person phenomenon.
餐车上，乘务员反而没戴口罩，说，戴了会造成恐慌。
On the dining car, however, the steward did not wear a mask, saying that wearing it would cause panic.
梅红看到百步亭万家宴照常举行的新闻，就像过去二十年她所看到的那样。
Mei Hong saw the news of the Bumpting Banquet as usual, as she had seen over the past twenty years.
住在百步亭温馨苑的黄新不太关心周围住了什么人。
Huang Xinxin, who lives in Bai Buting Warm Garden, doesn't care much about the people who live around him.
“我们每家每户都在家里面，谁知道哪家住的是什么人，每家也不跟每家联系，出门就出去了，进来了就把门关上。
"Everyone in our house is at home, who knows who lives there and who doesn't contact everyone, so we go out and shut the door when we come in.
”黄新一家原本住在头道街，老房子拆迁后，她家拿到了拆迁款。
The family, which used to live on First Avenue, received demolition money after the demolition of their old house.
如果在市中心买房子，会小一点。
It would be smaller if I bought a house downtown.
家里有老人有小孩，太挤。
There were old men and children in the house.
她搬到百步亭，住进一百多平米的房子。
She moved to the 100-square meter pavilion and lived in a house of more than 100 square meters.
1月23日，百步亭文卉苑楼下的广播喇叭持续播放通知：公交10点停运。
On January 23, the loudspeaker at the lower reaches of the Bumbuting Garden continued to broadcast announcements: 10: 00 pm downtime on public transportation.
直到这时，成东才知道：武汉封城了。
Until then, Cheng Dong knew: Wuhan closed the city.
她比较后知后觉。
She was more backward.
许多武汉人凌晨两点得到消息后，度过了不眠之夜。
Many Wuhan people spent a sleepless night after they got the news at 2 a.m.
住在文卉苑的容敏会看新闻，防范意识比较强，之前备了些肉和菜，但品种有限。
There are some meats and dishes, but only a few of them are available. There are many kinds of vegetables and meat.
一整个星期，她家每餐吃大白菜煮猪肉丸子。
For a whole week, her family ate boiled pork balls with cabbage.
要么将土豆、胡萝卜和肉炖在一起。
Or stew potatoes, carrots and meat together.
4天前，家里东西吃完了，也没敢去超市。
Four days ago, the family ran out of food and dared not go to the supermarket.
她每晚10点在网上抢菜，“10秒就抢光了。
She snatched food online at 10: 00 every night. "She grabbed it in 10 seconds.
”罗秋每周给住在百步亭的父母送一次菜。
Lo sends food once a week to her parents who live at the kiosk.
如今，小区群里，大家聊得最多的是——菜。
Today, the community groups, most of the conversation is - dishes.
从年轻人到中年人到老年人，空前一致地关心起了——菜。
From the young to the middle-aged to the old, there is an unprecedented unity of care - food.
出于对疫情的担心，大家都不想出门。
Worried about the outbreak, no one wants to go out.
“但是，吃怎么解决呢？”罗秋说。
"But what about eating?" Luo said.
许多人需要菜。
Many people need food.
社区帮忙配送，肯定不够。
Community help with distribution is definitely not enough.
这是罗秋的担心。
This is Rachel's worry.
在网上买菜，只能送到小区门口，而且需要组织者。
Buy vegetables online, can only be sent to the door of the community, and need organizers.
她担心父母出门取菜。
She worried about her parents going out to get food.
“我妈身体不好。
"My mother is not well.
我怕我爸把病毒带回去。
I'm afraid my dad took the virus back.
他们的防护做得肯定没有我们好。
They certainly didn't do as well as we did.
”罗秋给父母买菜，都是放门口。
"Luo Qiu buys vegetables for her parents and puts them at the door.
她爸爸拿回去，全部消毒。
Her father took it back and disinfected it all.
得知即将封城的消息后，吕佳俊取消了回无锡过年的计划。
Knowing the news of the impending closure of the city, Lu Jiajun canceled back Wuxi New Year plans.
他的一些同事立即开车离开武汉。
Some of his colleagues immediately drove away from Wuhan.
剩下的一些同事刚入职两三个月，他不太放心，所以选择留下来。
Some of his remaining colleagues had only been on duty for two or three months, and he was not at ease, so he chose to stay.
年前，百合苑的何悠（化名）完成物资食品囤积后在家里待着，怕被病毒感染。
Years ago, the lily garden of Ho Yin (alias) completed the hoarding of food and materials at home, afraid of being infected by the virus.
隔离了半个月，虽然酒精、口罩、护目镜和食物都还有，但她还是担心。
Isolated for half a month, she worried about alcohol, masks, goggles and food.
今年武汉的冬天气候异常，阴雨绵绵，比往年都要暖，这几天又下雨了。
Wuhan this winter weather is abnormal, rainy, than usual warmer than usual, these days it rains again.
空气湿度高，病毒在这种空气中生存的时间更久。
Air humidity is high, and viruses live longer in this air.
让她害怕的是，“几乎没有闻到过消毒水的气味。
To her horror, "there was almost no smell of disinfectant.
”那股味道不好闻，此时却能让人安心。
"The taste was bad, but it was reassuring.
有一段视频在网上广为流传——百步亭安居苑住户拍下了对面楼层消毒人员匆匆消毒，拍了照片便走，大概只有一分钟。
There is a video widely circulated on the Internet - the residents of Bumbuting Qu Yuan took pictures of the disinfectors on the opposite floor hastily disinfection, took photos and then left, about a minute.
住在文卉苑的容敏看到了这个视频。
Yu Min, who lives at Wenyuan, sees this video.
“我们也不太确定消毒工作到底有没有完成，只在每栋楼的微信群里看网格员发上来的消毒照片，照片的背景里有时还有没戴口罩的大爷在楼下聊天。
"We're not sure if the sanitization is done," he said. "We're just looking at the disinfectant photos sent by the grid man in each building, sometimes with a mask-free man downstairs chatting.
”老张是百合苑的物业人员，他也看了安居苑那个视频。
Lao Zhang, a property worker at the Lilly Garden, also saw the video of the Ngai Nga Court.
“那应该是刚来的员工，有时候打（消毒液）多了搞忘了，你像我们打（消毒液）的话，一个人打89个单元，有时搞忘了，漏了个把单元的情况也有。
"It's supposed to be a new comer, and sometimes you forget about it. If you play like we do, you hit 89 units, sometimes forget about it, and you miss a unit too.
每天下午，我们从1点打消毒液打到四五点才结束。
Every afternoon, we don't finish until four or five o'clock with a 1: 00 disinfectant.
”老张介绍，整个百步亭社区是由同一家物业公司管理，共有员工近两千人。
Mr. Zhang said the 100-foot-pavilion community is managed by the same property company and employs nearly 2,000 people.
他所在的百合苑有十几个保安、七八个保洁和五六个管理人员。
His lily has more than a dozen security guards, 78 cleaners and five or six managers.
百合苑是2003年9月28日交的房，那年老张下岗，看到招聘告示，便来应聘，一直工作到现在。
Lily Court was handed in on September 28, 2003, Lao Zhang laid off that year, saw the job advertisement, came to apply, has been working until now.
最开始负责绿化，后来绿化承包给别的公司，他就转岗做维修员。
First responsible for greening, then green contractors to other companies, he was transferred to work as a repairman.
十年前，他升级为房管员，负责水电等公共设施的维修管理，晚上小区里路灯坏了，或者哪家水管爆了，他都要去弄，要是水漏到住户楼下，他还得去协调邻里纠纷。
Ten years ago, he was promoted to housekeeper, responsible for the maintenance of utilities, such as water and electricity, street lights in the community broke down at night, or any pipe burst, he would have to get it, and if the water leaked downstairs, he would have to mediate between neighbors.
疫情期间，物业主要负责小区公共区域的消毒，包括楼道、楼下垃圾桶和中心广场等地方，一共九个人，每天消毒两次，上午8点多和下午1点多各一次。
During the outbreak, the property was mainly responsible for disinfecting the common areas of the community, including the corridor, the garbage bin downstairs and the central plaza. There were nine people disinfected twice a day, one each at 8 a.m. and 1 p.m.
其中负责消毒楼道的有四个人，小区共有35栋楼，每栋楼又分为独立的三四个单元，共有118个单元，每个单元六层楼，由于是老小区，都没有电梯。
There were four people in charge of disinfecting the hallway, 35 buildings in the community, each of which was divided into three or four separate units, 118 units, each with a six-storey building, and no elevator because it was an old block.
2月11日开始，老张和同事们接手了保洁的消毒工作。
Mr. Zhang and his colleagues took over the disinfection work on February 11.
“发热楼栋1至6楼的楼道全消毒，没有发热的楼道消毒1至3楼。
"The heating building 1 to 6 floor corridor disinfects completely, does not have the heating corridor disinfection 1-3 floor.
”老张感到辛苦，“我们人员有限，都是五十多岁的人，一桶水32斤，没电梯，给两栋楼消完毒，身体就吃不消了，但也只能坚持。
"Lao Zhang felt laborious." We were limited men in their fifties, with a bucket of 32 jin of water and no elevators.
消毒液是公司送过来的，按照国家规定的消毒液与水1比50的比例调好，稀释后几乎没有气味，所以居民们闻不到味道，但并不代表我们没有喷洒。
The disinfectant is sent by the company, according to the state regulation of disinfectant and water 1: 50 ratio, diluted almost no smell, so residents do not smell, but does not mean we did not spray.
一开始他们还是不相信，要我们消毒时拍照片发群里，我们也没有时间每个单元都拍，只能一栋拍几张。
At first they didn't believe that if we had to take pictures when we disinfect, we wouldn't have time to shoot every unit, just a couple of shots per unit.
我在群里说，你们要相信我，我也算是出来当志愿者了，公司本来腊月二十九就放假了，一直放到3月份，我大可以在家休息，但现在国难当头，男人理当出来顶天立地。
I said in the group, you have to believe me, I also came out as a volunteer, the company was originally on the 29th of May holiday, until March, I can rest at home, but now the national crisis, men should be out of the sky.
我从2月5号就自愿回来上班，一直到现在，11号开始做消毒工作，天天喷，累的时候从没想过不做了，只会想这个疫情到底要到几时才结束呢。
I have come back to work voluntarily from February 5, until now, 11 began to do disinfection work, every day spray, tired never thought not to do, only to think that the epidemic will not end.
”2月20日以后，新问题又出现了，有的业主跟物业说，消毒水打多了也不好，会渗到地表层，对水质造成污染。
Since February 20, new problems have arisen, with some owners telling properties that it is not good to drink too much disinfectant, which can seep into the surface of the ground and contaminate water quality.
还有的人把垃圾放在门口，让老张和同事帮他拿下去。
Others leave the rubbish at the door and ask Lao Zhang and his colleagues to take it down for him.
“我们只能劝他，只要戴好口罩，下楼扔垃圾是不用怕的，但还是有人不听，直接从楼上往下扔，扔完之后，我们还是得打扫。
"We can only advise him to wear masks and throw rubbish downstairs without fear, but people don't listen, throw it directly from upstairs, and then we have to clean it up.
”老张感到力不从心，物业要管的事情太多了：打扫卫生，管控进出小区，帮社区送菜给孤寡老人。
Lao Zhang felt overwhelmed and had too many things to attend to: cleaning, controlling access to the community, and helping the community deliver food to the elderly.
“小区一共1341户住户，很多问题我们都没时间一一回应，因为事情太多，人手又少，根本忙不完。
"There are 1,341 households in the community, and we don't have time to respond to them, because there are so many things, so few people, not enough work.
现在又招不到人，谁来呢，大家一听百步亭都怕了。
Now can not recruit people, who will come, everyone is afraid to listen to the hundred steps.
”小区21个发热单元，但有的老人单纯是发烧，不见得是感染了新冠肺炎，或者有别的症状需要急救。
"There are 21 heating units in the neighborhood, but some elderly people simply have a fever and do not necessarily have pneumonia, or other symptoms requiring first aid.
“居民一看到救护车进来就很惊慌，一传十，十传百，物业的电话都要打破。
"Residents panic when they see ambulances coming in, from person to person, from person to person, property calls to be broken.
”百步亭每个小区物业费不一样。
Each quarter property management fee is different.
百合苑物业费偏低，0.95元一个平方。
Lilium property fee is low, 0.95 yuan a square.
“别的小区不太清楚，但跟我家住的长江新城1.2元一平方比，这里算低的。
"Other residential areas are not clear, but compared to the 1.2 yuan square of the Changjiang New Town, where I live, it's low.
2003年交房时是0.55元，2008年7月1号升到0.7元，2016年元月1号调整到0.95元，直到现在。
In 2003, it was 0.55 yuan, rising to 0.7 yuan on July 1, 2008, and 0.95 yuan on January 1, 2016.
”这些日期和数字，老张脱口而出，记得特别清楚。
"These dates and figures, old Zhang blurted out, remember very clearly.
老张的同事都是入职时间比较长的老员工。
Lao Zhang's colleagues are older workers who have been on the job for longer periods.
招不到年轻人的另一个原因是工资太低了，到手两千多块一个月，公司只缴社保医保。
Another reason for failing to hire young people is that wages are too low. For more than two thousand dollars a month, the company pays only Social Security.
十几年来，工资每年涨一两百，有时候只是社保涨几十块。
For more than a decade, wages have risen by one or two hundred a year, sometimes just a few dozen.
“但我也没想过换工作，因为可以跟各种人打交道，什么人都有，看得挺多，这个还是挺有意思的。
"But I didn't want to change my job either, because it was fun to meet people of all kinds and see a lot of people.
”老张说。
"said Lao Zhang.
孙祥在百步亭做了很多年警察。
Sun Xiang worked as a policeman for many years.
他觉得在这里呆上几年，可以写一本书了。
He felt he could write a book if he stayed here for a few years.
他也提到万家宴。
He also mentioned the feast.
百步亭因为万家宴而出名多年，也因为万家宴而在疫情之初备受指责。
The 100-foot pavilion became famous for years and was criticized at the beginning of the epidemic because of the feast.
部分百步亭居民感到委屈。
Some residents feel aggrieved.
有一篇文章被广泛传播，为的是让大家更了解百步亭。
An article was widely circulated to make people more aware of the Pavilion.
“你可以看看这篇。
"You can look at this.
”孙祥在休息间隙发给本刊记者一篇文章。
Sun Xiang sent an article to our correspondent during the break.
文章出自一位前新闻工作者之手。
The article was written by a former journalist.
他说万家宴现场不到万人，受限于场地，摆桌之后，只能留一些人拍照记录，别说千人，几百人都不可能。
He said there were fewer than 10, 000 people at the banquet, limited to the venue, after the table, can only leave some people to take photos, say thousands, hundreds of people are impossible.
菜品都有覆膜，并不是现场食用。
The dishes are covered with mulch and are not eaten live.
老百姓不知疫情严重，不能怪他们。
The common people do not know the serious epidemic, can not blame them.
成东不是每天都下楼。
Cheng Dong doesn't go downstairs every day.
她发了一张地图给本刊记者，“百步亭太大了，有很多苑区，刚刚发给你的那个图片上的苑区在一条大马路的对面，这几个苑区只占了百步亭花园的五分之一，其余苑区都在百步亭花园里面。
She sent out a map to our correspondent. 'There are too many parks, and the park in the picture you have just given you is opposite the High-Road, which occupies only one-fifth of the Park Park, which is in the Park Park.
红色区域是最老的百步亭花园。
The red area is the oldest 100 foot pavilion garden.
我们在后湖大道大马路对面，都是新建的小区。
We are on Houhu Boulevard across the main road, are new residential areas.
红色的苑区感染的人多些。
Red parks infect more people.
”成东说。
'he said.
青木（化名）住在百步亭百步龙庭。
Aoki (alias) lives in the 100-step dragon pavilion.
“疫情发生到现在，没有人上门核查我的体温，前段时间有打过电话问，但是没有天天打。
"No one has come to check my temperature since the outbreak," he said. "Some time ago, I called, but not every day.
”青木对小区物业不满意。
Aoki is not satisfied with the property.
她记得上小学初中的时候，电梯经常坏。
She remembers that when she was in junior high school, the elevator often broke down.
“去年夏天，电梯没装通风装置，连个电扇都没有，武汉的夏天又很闷，我妈跟一位老爷爷一起坐电梯，老爷爷就觉得很不舒服，喘不过来气，我妈立马投诉了，后来物业才来给电梯安上风扇。
"Last summer, the elevator was not ventilated, not even a fan, Wuhan summer is very stuffy, my mother and an old grandfather together elevator, Grandpa feel very uncomfortable, breathless, my mother immediately complained, before the property to install fans to the elevator.
”在青木住的小区，三个大门关了两个，现在只有一个门让人进出。
In the Aoki quarter, two of the three gates were closed, and now there is only one to let people in and out.
家里人没事干的时候就待在阳台往下看，有时候，“一上午都见不到楼下走过一个人。
The family stayed on the balcony and looked down when there was nothing to do, and sometimes "never saw a man go downstairs all morning.
”“我们可以不只是呆坐等待，应该做点可以做的事情。
"" We can do something more than just sit around and wait.
”研究社区工作的梅红说，“这次疫情太严重，我们平时感受不到的业主委员会，这次发挥了很大的作用，他们建群，发信息，通过微信采购物资等等。
"The outbreak is so severe that we don't feel like we have a owners' committee," said Mei Hong, who studies community work.
有的人做志愿者，和社区中心一起工作。
Some people volunteer to work with community centers.
非常时期的非常举动，让人觉得人与人之间挺有感情的。
Exceptional time of extraordinary behavior, people feel that there are feelings between people.
有没有做我们普通居民可以做的事情？居民很自觉地把各种任务放到了几个人身上。
Have we done what we ordinary residents can do? Residents have consciously put tasks on a few people.
我们好像是观看者和评判者，看着物业、业主委员会和社区中心怎么做。
We seem to be spectators and judges of what property, owners' committees and community centers do.
”梅红想到了1998年武汉抗洪。
"Mei Hong thought of the Wuhan flood control in 1998.
“这次的灾难又不一样。
"This time it was a different disaster.
这个灾难是比较特别的，比较忌讳人和人之间的紧密互动。
This disaster is quite special, compared to taboo people and close interaction between people.
到底我们还能做什么？我也在思考。
What else can we do? I'm thinking about it.
”2月18日，武汉青山区工人村街道青和居社区居民接受排查图/程敏百步亭的病人百步亭是一个超级城市综合体，小区林立，有商品房、经济适用房和廉租房。
On February 18, residents of Qingshan Workers' Village in Wuhan, Qinghe neighborhood, received a screening map / Cheng Min 100-step Pavilion, a super-city complex with lots of commercial housing, affordable housing and low-cost housing.
李莉（化名）是百步亭廉租房的租户，此时，她住在作为隔离点的经济型酒店。
Li Li (alias) is a low-rent 100-foot house tenant, at this time, she lives as an isolated point of the economy hotel.
“真是太难了。
"It's too difficult.
”李莉说，“我们是2月11号来的隔离酒店。
"said Lily." We're in a secluded hotel on February 11.
2月12号我朋友就开始高烧不退。
My friend had a high fever on Feb. 12.
”李莉的朋友并不确切知道自己的症状从何而起。
"Li Li's friends do not know exactly where their symptoms began.
李莉的妈妈去过今年的万家宴，她反而是家里三个人中唯一没有症状的人。
Li Li's mother, who was the only one of the family's three without symptoms, was at this year's feast.
二十多平米的空间里，三个人一起生活——李莉的朋友、妈妈和她。
More than 20 square meters of space, three people living together - Li Li's friends, mother and her.
朋友出现症状后，他们去社区医院看了病。
After their friend developed symptoms, they went to the community hospital for a visit.
医生要求他们去汉口医院拍片子，验血。
The doctor asked them to take a film and blood test at Hankou Hospital.
作为疑似病例，他们接着被要求住进隔离点的酒店。
As suspected cases, they were then asked to stay in a hotel at the quarantine site.
在隔离酒店，李莉的朋友高烧不退，他被要求送往医院。
At the quarantined hotel, Li Li's friend had a high fever and was asked to take him to hospital.
这是一个逐步递进的隔离级别。
This is a progressive level of isolation.
李莉曾在百步亭业主群里求助。
Li Li used to turn to the Hundred Walker Owners' Group for help.
2月13日上午发出求助信息，下午，朋友被送到医院。
On the morning of 13 February a message of help was sent, and in the afternoon friends were taken to hospital.
李莉也感染了，但与朋友不同，她没有像朋友那样发高烧，说话有些气喘，呼吸感到憋闷，晚上睡觉时冷汗不断。
Lily was infected, too, but unlike her friends, she did not have a fever, wheezing, suffocating breathing, and sweating at night, as her friends did.
在隔离点，李莉拿到了发放的中药。
At the quarantine point, Li Li got the Chinese medicine.
朋友在社区医院时，有医生给他开了一些药。
When his friend was at the community hospital, the doctor prescribed some medicine for him.
朋友被送走后，李莉吃他留下的药。
After her friend was sent away, Li Li took the medicine he left behind.
在酒店里，她去找了一瓶84消毒水，给房间消毒。
At the hotel, she went to a bottle of disinfectant 84 and disinfected the room.
她担心交叉感染。
She's worried about cross-infection.
她的口罩是自己的，进来后戴到现在。
Her mask was her own and she came in and put it on now.
她最希望的事情是自己的情况变得更严重时，能被及时送往医院。
The thing she wanted most was to be sent to the hospital in time when her condition got worse.
交通工具是亟待解决的问题。
Transportation is an urgent problem.
许多应急车辆优先照顾透析病人、癌症病人和其他重症病人。
Many emergency vehicles give priority to dialysis patients, cancer patients and other seriously ill patients.
疑似病人有时不得不等，因为“太多了”。
Suspected patients sometimes have to wait because there are too many.
一位社区工作者表示了无奈。
A community worker expressed frustration.
百步亭社区的洪维（化名）1月30日开始发烧，一开始以为是感冒，自己在家吃头孢、康泰克、莲花清瘟胶囊和退烧药，一直未见好转，持续高烧，浑身无力，神志不清，呼吸困难。
Hung Wai (not his real name), who started off with a fever on January 30, has been eating ceftak, contak, lotus rinse rinderpest capsules and antipyretics at home. He continues to suffer from high fever, weakness, confusion and breathing difficulties.
2月3日他去了社区普仁医院，医生给他抽血化验，做了CT，显示肺部明显感染。
On 3 February, he went to the community hospital in Puren, where he was given a blood test and a CT scan showing a clear lung infection.
医生得出的结论是高度疑似新冠肺炎，让他立即去三甲医院就医。
The doctor concluded that there was a high level of suspected pneumonia and asked him to go to Triple A Hospital immediately.
想进三甲医院谈何容易？家人联系了几家医院，均被告知没有开住院证收发热病人的权力，必须由社区登记排队入院。
The family contacted several hospitals and were told that they did not have the right to issue hospitalization certificates to fever patients and had to be queued for admission by the community.
联系120之后，得知前面有四百多人在排队。
After contacting 120, I learned that there were more than 400 people in line.
洪维的姐姐洪君（化名）四处求助。
Hongwei's sister, Hong Jun (not her real name), looked around for help.
最后是亲戚千方百计帮他们在同济中法院区找了一个床位。
Finally, relatives tried every means to help them find a bed in the Tongzhong court district.
洪维于1月9日送医，病情现有好转。
He was taken to hospital on January 9 and is now in remission.
洪维所住的同济医院中法分院，目前是北京派来的医疗团队进驻治疗。
Hong Wei lives in Tongji Hospital in the French sub-hospital, is currently sent from Beijing medical team for treatment.
他们姐弟每天用微信问候，“弟弟说话没力气，有时回一个字，有时不回复。
His brother-in-law greeted him with a letter every day. "My brother has no energy to speak, sometimes answers a word, sometimes he does not reply.
”“现在小区己封，之前准备了一些必需品，今天差点食材，打电话让居委会送来的。
"" Now that the neighborhood is sealed, we've prepared some necessities, and today we almost had to call the neighborhood committee to deliver them.
”洪君说。
'said Hong.
她不能去医院探望弟弟。
She can't visit her brother in hospital.
在离医院几里的地方，己执行交通管制，车辆禁行。
A few miles from the hospital, traffic control has been enforced and vehicles are banned.
弟弟入院匆忙，带了些日用品和随身衣服，水果、牛奶没带，又不能送，“我们只能在家等。
My brother rushed to the hospital with some groceries and some clothes. Fruit and milk were missing and he couldn't deliver.
”百步亭社区，居民在小区门口聊天 图/本刊记者 杨楠家住温馨苑的黄新陷入了愁苦之中。
"Baebuting community, residents in the plot door chat map / print reporter Yang Nan Warm Garden Huang Xinxin fell into a state of sadness.
她丈夫疑似新冠肺炎，高烧十天，气短，无法进食，呕吐，浑身无力。
Her husband is suspected to have pneumonia, fever for 10 days, shortness of breath, inability to eat, vomiting, and general weakness.
因为生病，丈夫有点消极，唉声叹气，虽然还没有检测确诊，但他觉得自己基本就是新冠肺炎了。
Because of illness, the husband is a bit negative, sigh, although has not been tested to confirm, but he felt that he is basically a new crown pneumonia.
黄新不敢跟外人说，同事们聊起天来，她也不敢出声。
Huang did not dare to tell the outsider, her colleagues chatted, she did not dare to say a word.
“你家有这个病，人家就会有想法，挺恐怖的。
"If you have this illness in your house, people will think about it. It's horrible.
我觉得也没必要说，说的话，别人也帮不到你，是不是？有些苦得自己忍受自己扛。
I don't think there's any need to say that what you're saying won't help you, right? Some people have to put up with it themselves.
”没住院那几天，黄新看到丈夫吃不下饭的样子，难过得要掉下眼泪，又不敢在他面前哭，只好等到晚上，自己蒙在被子里哭。
When Huang saw that her husband could not eat, he was so sad that he wept and dared not cry in front of him.
“我都急死了，你知道吧？人都快没命了。
"I'm dying, you know? People are dying.
”丈夫生病后，她搬到客厅，起先睡在沙发上，脚伸不直，搬了凳子，被子总是掉，最后拿出两块板子拼在一起当床，被子也不够厚，就把衣服盖在上面。
When her husband was ill, she moved to the living room, where she first slept on the sofa, her feet stretched out, she moved the stool, the quilt always fell off, and finally put two boards together to make a bed, and the quilt was not thick enough to cover it.
她找不到人倾吐心中烦忧，有时候跟妈妈讲，妈妈只能跟她说“不怕不怕”。
She can not find someone to pour out the worry, sometimes told her mother, her mother can only say "not afraid of fear."
丈夫刚发烧那会儿，需要到医院打针，没联系上车辆，他们最后是打摩的去的医院。
When her husband had a fever, he had to go to the hospital to get an injection. He could not get in touch with the traffic.
一趟五六十块，每天来回要花百来块钱。
Fifty or sixty dollars a trip, a hundred dollars a day.
黄新记得，丈夫发热的第五天，下大雨，他们要去医院打针，“摩的不去，说啥都不去，没办法，我们又回来。
Huang remembered that her husband had a fever on the fifth day, when it rained heavily and they were going to the hospital to get an injection.
好不容易联系社区安排了车，但是，从医院回来又有了困难。
The community was hard-pressed to arrange the bus, but it was difficult to get back from the hospital.
”那天，他们两个人只好步行到相对较近的黄新母亲家借住。
That day the two of them had to walk to Huang's house, where their mother was relatively close.
“饿了一整天，又冒着雨，走了两个半小时才到家。
"I walked home for two and a half hours, hungry all day, and braving the rain.
”几天后丈夫最终住进了医院。
"My husband was finally admitted to the hospital a few days later.
她记得那辆送他丈夫入院的汽车——一辆专门接送发热患者的车，“看起来像个箱子，没有窗户，只有一小块透明玻璃，透过玻璃，能看到司机的背影。
She remembered that the car that had taken her husband to hospital, a car that had been used to transport febrile patients, looked like a box, no windows, only a small piece of clear glass, through which the driver's back could be seen.
”2月17日下午，黄新接到社区打来的一个电话，被告知，她作为新冠肺炎疑似患者密切接触者，要到酒店去隔离。
On the afternoon of February 17, Huang received a phone call from the community saying she was in close contact with a suspected SARS patient and wanted to go to the hotel to be quarantined.
她坐在沙发上想了很久，还是决定过去，虽然家里只剩下快八十岁的公公和十七八岁的儿子。
She sat on the sofa for a long time, and decided to pass on, though only her eighty-year-old father-in-law and seventeen-eight-year-old son remained.
武汉下大雪那天，黄新在家里发呆，武汉冬天并不经常下这样的大雪，“今年就是个灾年，夏天的时候，连树都热死了。
Wuhan heavy snow that day, Huang Xin at home in a daze, Wuhan winter is not often such a heavy snow, "this is a disaster year, summer, even the trees are hot to death.
”改装后的警车停靠在百步亭社区门口。
The modified police car pulled up in front of the Bumpting neighborhood.
准确地说，是百步亭某个社区门口，百步亭太大了，在中国的行政区划里更接近于街道。
To be sure, at the gates of one of the hundred pavilions, the pavilions are too big and are closer to the streets in China's administrative divisions.
一场大雪不期而至，委实罕见。
It was rare that a heavy snow came.
雪花斜着掠过，密集地砸在车身上。
Snowflakes sloped across the car and crashed heavily on it.
警车车厢后门和驾驶室的门都开着，这是送完病人之后，正在消毒和通风。
The back door of the police car and the door of the cockpit were open, disinfecting and ventilating after the patient was delivered.
车厢后半部有一个折叠座，翻下来可以并排坐几个人。
There was a folding seat in the back of the carriage, which could be turned down to sit side by side.
后半部和前面的驾驶室被隔开，原本透明的车窗被一张告示贴了起来，下面横挡了一块木板。
The second half was separated from the front cab, and the original transparent window was pasted up by a sign, blocking a plank below.
穿着白色防护服和护目镜的孙祥与同事坐在驾驶室里，等着新一趟的任务。
Dressed in a white suit and goggles, Sun Xiang sat in the cab with his colleagues, waiting for a new assignment.
他们今天已经在社区与隔离点、方舱、医院之间跑了几趟。
Today they have made several trips between the community and the quarantine point, the square and the hospital.
警车更像是救护车。
A police car is more like an ambulance.
整个武汉仿佛一个巨大的医院。
Wuhan is like a huge hospital.
许多人等待着这样一辆开着门的车。
Many people are waiting for such an open car.
武汉“清零”行动开始后，各等级的病人都需要妥善安置，社区需要各方联动。
Wuhan "clean zero" operation began, all levels of patients need to be properly settled, the community needs to be linked.
小志（化名）是百步亭社区工作人员。
Xiaozhi (alias) is a hundred steps community workers.
“百步亭社区最艰难的时候，可能是整个武汉疫情刚开始暴发那会儿。
"The hardest time for the 100-foot-Ting community may have been when the whole Wuhan outbreak began.
”小志说，“因为本来社区人手就不是很多，群体太庞大，跟踪摸排量很大，社区工作人员也不是医护人员，有些这方面的设备，专业知识（不足），所以对他们来说，疫情突然发生以后，他们就被推到前线，可以说除了医务人员，他们就是随机医生了，不管是经验、心理还是物资，都不是很应对得来。
'Because there are not many people in the community, there are too many people, there are too many people, there is a lot of tracking, there are community workers who are not health care workers and some of the equipment and expertise is not there.
现在，社区相对来说更有条有序一些，目前能够提供的床位比以前多了，方舱医院也一直陆续在建，应收尽收的病人也差不多收进去了。
The community is now in a relatively better order, with more beds available than before, the Fang Cavern Hospital has been under construction, and nearly all the patients receivable have been collected.
”“我们这边不是每天还要给社区居民打电话吗，了解居民的情况。
"Aren't we calling the community every day to find out about the residents?
客观地说，我们并不能保证12万居民每天都接到一个电话。
Objectively speaking, there is no guarantee that 120,000 residents will receive a phone call every day.
”小志说，“社区有人跟居民打电话，他自己是很健康的，家里也没人感染，每天给他打个电话，问今天发不发热，你问多了，人家会烦你，然后直接说，你不要再跟我打电话了。
"There are people in the community who are talking on the phone and he's healthy and no one in the house is infected. Call him every day and ask if he has a fever today.
有的居民不愿意你上门，每天自查体温。
Some residents do not want you to come to the door, daily check your temperature.
”2月15日，雪下了一夜，孙祥又忙了一天。
"On February 15, it snowed all night, and Sun Xiang was busy for another day.
百步亭整个社区的疑似病例都归警察送。
Suspected cases in the 100-foot pavilion community are sent by the police.
“检测结果出来后，再分类处理。
"After the test results come out, we can classify them.
今天只有一个是密切接触的居民，其他都是发热疑似的。
Today there is only one resident in close contact, the others are feverish and suspected.
”社区给警察打电话，他们派人派车。
The community called the police and they sent a car.
“转运必须是医生和警察执行。
"Transit must be carried out by the doctor and the police.
”警察出行像医生，穿着防护服，戴口罩和护目镜。
Police travel like doctors, wearing protective clothing, masks and goggles.
没有方舱之前，也就是“清零”行动之前，他们的主要任务不是运送病人而是巡逻，严防有人恶意传播。
Before Operation Clean Zero, without a square cabin, their main task was not to transport patients but to patrol, to guard against malicious spread.
现在对一个社区来说，考验很多，大家以前没有经受过这么极端的考验。
Now for a community, many tests, you have not experienced such extreme test before.
“和平时间太长，都在娱乐至死啊。
Peace is too long, too long to be entertained to death.
”孙祥的金句很多。
Sun Xiang had many golden sentences.
他们会有预防感染的培训。
They will be trained to prevent infection.
“我们现在万一感染了，比普通人更可怕，因为我们要衔接各类人群不是？”孙祥说，“我现在都是住在单位寝室，寝室一间四人，战备的时候就不能回家，和军队是一样的。
"If we become infected now, it will be more terrible than ordinary people, because we need to connect all kinds of people," Sun Xiang said.
非典时候我们就是战备状态，全国大型活动也是战备状态，不计其数了。
SARS time we are in a state of readiness, the national large-scale activities are ready to go, countless.
”孙祥感到了今年春节的截然不同。
Sun Xiang felt the difference between this year's Spring Festival.
日常犯罪少了。
There are fewer everyday crimes.
“打架斗殴的，偷盗的，基本没有了。
"The fight, the theft, almost nothing.
”因为大家都在家里。
"Because everyone was at home.
小区的清洁工、社工都在位在岗。
The cleaners and social workers in the community are on duty.
“社会管理和公共服务都是正常运作的。
"Social management and public services are functioning normally.
”他接着补充，在基层工作，居委会和警察压力都大。
Working at the grass-roots level, he adds, there is a lot of pressure on neighborhood committees and the police.
“做事的都是基层的，肯定压力大。
"People who do things at the grass-roots level are definitely under pressure.
”2月16日，湖北省委常委、武汉市委书记王忠林召开视频会议，部署拉网式大排查，要求在中央指导组的推动下落实五个“百分之百”工作目标，坚决遏制疫情扩散蔓延。
On February 16, Wuhan Zhonglin, a standing committee member of the Hubei Provincial Committee and secretary of the Wuhan Municipal Party, held a videoconference to arrange a large-scale screening of the epidemic, demanding the implementation of the five "100 percent" targets under the guidance of the Central Steering Group and resolutely containing the spread of the epidemic.
五个“百分之百”举措即“确诊患者百分之百应收尽收、疑似患者百分之百核酸检测、发热病人百分之百进行检测、密切接触者百分之百隔离、小区村庄百分之百实行24小时封闭管理”。
Five "100 per cent" initiatives, namely "100 per cent receivable from confirmed patients, 100 per cent nucleic acid testing of suspected patients, 100 per cent testing of fever patients, 100 per cent isolation of close contacts and 100 per cent closed 24-hour management of small villages" are "100 per cent complete."
本刊记者将这条新闻发给孙祥，说，接下来有你们忙的了。
This print reporter sends this news to Sun Xiang, say, have you busy next.
隔了很久，他回复：革命尚未成功，同志仍需努力。
After a long time, he replied: the revolution has not been successful, comrades still have to work hard.
2月11日，武汉一小区物业工作人员为业主集中配送蔬菜 图/王效买菜作为大难题吕佳俊所在的生鲜电商平台在百步亭的站点主要服务周边三个小区，分别是百步华庭、万锦江城和万锦公馆。
On Feb. 11, property workers in a small district of Wuhan distributed vegetable charts / Wang Xiaoqiao vegetables as a major problem Lu Jiajun's live electric business platform in the vicinity of the main services in the three surrounding areas, namely 100 steps Huating, Wan Jinjiang City and Wanjin Mansion.
2月17日，小区开始实行全封闭，居民不能再来站点自提，订购之后，由他们排序、打包，用小板车运到小区门口，最远可以送200米，再由社区工作人员和志愿者提进去，每20个号码一拨，在群里喊居民下楼提菜。
On 17 February, the neighbourhood was completely closed and residents could no longer come to the site to pick up their food. After ordering, they sorted, packed and transported by scooter to the gate of the community, up to 200 metres, which were then taken in by community workers and volunteers, who shouted in groups every 20 numbers for residents to come downstairs to fetch food.
吕佳俊一直在忙。
Lu Jiajun has been busy.
2月初头一周，订单爆发，每天营业额升到一两万。
In the first week of February, orders exploded and turnover rose to 10,000 a day.
这些站点只有一两个人，连续三天，他和同事一直忙到下午6点下班，没时间喝水吃饭，有时还被顾客抱怨效率低，大家压力都很大，他得关注到员工的心理波动。
With just one or two people on the site for three days, he and his co-workers worked until 6 p. m., didn't have time to drink water to eat, and were sometimes criticized by customers as inefficient and stressful.
“有的员工比较情绪化，看到某天确诊案例增加了几千人，就说，第二天要是再涨我就不干了，这个时候就得安慰他们。
"Some employees are more emotional, seeing thousands more cases confirmed one day, saying if I go up again the next day, I'm going to have to comfort them.
”他跟员工说，疫情我们控制不了，但你们作为武汉人，这个时候唯一能做的就是尽一份绵薄之力，你在武汉的亲朋好友们，也都要吃饭，如果我们都不干，他们怎么办呢。
"We have no control over the outbreak, but as Wuhan people, the only thing you can do at this time is to do your part, and your friends and relatives in Wuhan will eat," he told employees.
员工的防护服、口罩等，他们会配齐。
Employees' protective clothing, masks, etc., they will be complete.
她给每个人申请了每天50块的餐补，疫情期间双倍工资，加班费调到1.5倍。
She applied to everyone for a 50-dollar-a-day meal supplement, double wages during the epidemic and a 1.5-fold increase in overtime pay.
好不容易留下一些员工，但人手还是不够，又招了几位兼职员工，优先选择年轻人，可以干体力活，抵抗力也比较强，兼职时薪从25块调整到35块，每天工作六七个小时。
It was difficult to retain some staff, but the number was still insufficient, and several part-time employees were recruited, giving priority to young people, who could do manual work and have greater resistance. Part-time hourly pay was adjusted from 25 to 35, working six or seven hours a day.
刚开始，吕佳俊自己也有点害怕，后来忙起来，“就根本没时间害怕了。
At first, Lu Jiajun himself was a little scared, and then he got busy. "There is no time to be afraid."
”2月17日，容敏所在的文卉苑彻底封闭。
On February 17, there was a complete closure of the garden where Rong Min was located.
从那天开始，微信里出现了买菜的公益团购群。
From that day on, a group of pro bono buyers appeared in the micro-letters.
每天中午12点到下午两点，大家在群里下单，第二天下午3点去小区内的物业办事处拿。
Every day from 12 noon to 2 p.m., people in the group order, the next day at 3 p.m. to pick up the property offices in the small area.
菜都是配好的，一袋蔬菜50块，里面会有莲藕、包菜等四五种蔬菜，生姜大蒜是买不到的，但有菜，“我们已经感谢天感谢地了。
The dishes are all made, a bag of vegetables 50 pieces, will have lotus root, cabbage and other four or five vegetables, ginger garlic can not be bought, but there are dishes, "we have thanked God for the gratefulness.
”一周有一次肉，也是搭配好的，价格还挺便宜，一袋200块不到，有大概两斤鸡胸肉，两斤鸭，两斤猪里脊，2.6斤排骨，不限数量。
"Meat once a week, also a good match, the price is quite cheap, less than 200 dollars a bag, about two jin of chicken breast, two catties of duck, two jin of pork ribs, 2.6 jin of ribs, unlimited quantity.
容敏加了十几个买东西的群，分别买药、水果、卤菜、牛奶、酒精、母婴产品等，见到群她就加，能买尽量买。
Rong Min added a dozen shopping groups, respectively to buy medicine, fruit, halogen, milk, alcohol, mother and child products, she saw the group, she can buy as much as possible.
“一天一个变化，你没法预测明天会怎样，只能做好准备。
"One change a day, you can't predict what will happen tomorrow, you can only be ready.
”不让出小区，大家只能托志愿者、外卖小哥、商家配送员跑腿。
"Do not let out of the community, we can only entrust volunteers, take-out brothers, businessmen distribution staff run errands.
小区一共四千多户，每天都聚集了很多居民在交货的门口，等着外面的人递菜递米面进来。
There were more than 4,000 families in the area. Everyday, many residents gathered at the gate of the delivery, waiting for the delivery of rice noodles.
门彻底封死了，由志愿者或者下沉到社区的干部守着，硬要出去会被警察带走。
The door was completely sealed off, guarded by volunteers or cadres who had sunk into the community, and forced to go out would be taken away by the police.
容敏住在2楼，经常听到楼下有老爷爷吵，“不让我出去啊。
Yong Min lives on the second floor and often hears an old grandfather arguing downstairs. "Don't let me out.
”社区工作人员小志介绍，百步亭9个居委会，常住人口12万。
About 120, 000 residents live in nine neighborhood committees at the 100-foot pavilion, according to Xiao Zhi, a community worker.
文卉苑情况还要特殊些，是武汉市最大廉租房所在地。
The situation of Wenyuan is also special, which is the largest low-rent housing in Wuhan.
“这个时候，住廉租房的人可能会更困难一点。
"At this point, people who live in low-cost housing can be a little more difficult.
”社区从未如此受人关注。
The community has never been more visible.
梅红觉得，这次疫情让大家“发现了社区”。
Mei Hong thinks, this epidemic lets everybody "discover the community".
“大家经常说下沉到社区。
"People often say sink into the community.
从现在的情况看，社区不能忽视。
As things stand, communities cannot afford to ignore them.
这一次，我们看到了社区本身的作用，各种各样的困难，都在社区里克服。
This time, we see the role of the community itself, all kinds of difficulties, are being overcome in the community.
”梅红说，“作为居民来说，我们一般是害怕，在家里面抱怨，或者说在家里面发愁。
'As residents, we're generally afraid, complaining at home, or worrying at home, 'she says.
我们看到社区的人员非常紧张地在工作。
We see people in the community working very nervously.
社区中心、业主委员会和物业，这是中国城市最主要的三大组织。
Community centres, owners' committees and properties are the top three organizations in China's cities.
他们这次很积极地服务大家，但我们也看到了这其中缺乏平时的组织建设。
They have been very active in serving you this time, but we have also seen a lack of peacetime organization.
组织关系的建设，不同社区不同程度地显现问题。
The construction of organizational relations, different communities in varying degrees to show the problem.
突发状况下，看起来大家在相互配合，这个在平时是看不到的。
On a whim, it looked as if everyone was working together, something you wouldn't normally see.
平时甚至是矛盾的状态和冲突的状态出现。
In times of peace even contradictory states and states of conflict arise.
冲突的状态，可能是因为这三方是不一样的利益群体。
The state of conflict may be due to the fact that the three parties are distinct interest groups.
三方并没有做好相互的制度建设。
The three parties did not do well in each other's institution-building.
我该做什么，他该做什么，我们可以共同做什么？”做志愿者，可能是迈出的一步。
What should I do, what should he do, what can we do together? "Volunteering may be a step forward.
林光是文卉苑的志愿者。
Lin Guang volunteers at Wenyuan Garden.
他从2月11日开始在文卉苑做志愿工作。
From February 11, he began volunteering at Wencai Yuan.
“当时的契机，说老实话，是为了顶替我爱人。
'The occasion, to tell the truth, was to take my lover's place.
”林光的妻子是党员，要下沉到社区做志愿者。
Lin Guang's wife is a party member and volunteers in the community.
知道她被安排去百步亭后，10岁的儿子抓着妈妈的手说，“那个地方我都听说了，很严重，妈妈能不能不去。
Knowing that she was being arranged to go to the 100-foot pavilion, the 10-year-old son grabbed his mother by the hand and said, "I've heard all about that place.
”林光便说，“要不我去吧，一来她可以在家管小孩，而且我一个男的肯定顶事些。
'said Lin Guang.' Why don't I go and let her take care of the children at home, and I'm sure a man will do better.
”林光以前从来没做过采购和配送的工作，一切从头开始。
"Lin Guang had never done procurement or distribution before and started all over again.
到岗当天下午，林光就从政府给他们提供的一些蔬菜公司当中筛选，咨询他们的实力、能提供的分量、有没有自己的基地、运输能力如何，最后找的这家在黄陂区（郊区），离百步亭一两个小时路程，有基地，有养鸡场，供应起来应该是有保障的。
On the afternoon of the day, Lin Guang sifted through some vegetable companies offered by the government, asking them about their strength, the amount they could offer, whether they had their own base and transportation capacity, and finally found this one in Huangpi District (suburb), an hour or two away from Hundred Pings Pavilion.
接着琢磨怎么购买、取菜，林光和志愿者们在小区内建微信群，通过一个小程序下单、付款，供应商的菜都是按套餐卖的，有50一袋和200一袋的分别。
Then he thought about how to buy and pick up the dishes. Lin Guang and the volunteers built a micro-community in the area. They ordered and paid for their dishes by a small program.
社区书记说这个小区是由三个社区拆迁过来的，住的大多是低保户或残疾人，建议只卖50块的。
The community secretary said the neighborhood had been demolished by three communities, mostly low-income families or the disabled, and recommended only 50 dollars.
一袋有13斤蔬菜，大白菜、胡萝卜、土豆、莴苣、青椒，加上使用小程序的3毛手续费。
A bag contains 13 kilos of vegetables, cabbage, carrots, potatoes, lettuce, green peppers, plus a 3-pound handling charge for using the applet.
“我们担心可能居民们不愿意多交手续费，从晚上到第二天中午都在找别的方法，但相比之下还是这个最方便，后来还是有居民在群里说，凭什么要收3毛。
"We were concerned that the potential residents were reluctant to pay the extra fee and were looking for other ways from night until noon, but that was the most convenient method," said one resident in the group.
”这个过程当中，林光发现小区里的老人起码占了三分之一，一些群都是五六十岁的居民为主，基本上要靠志愿者教他们使用。
In the process, Lin Guang found that at least one-third of the elderly in the community, some of them residents in their fifties and sixties, rely on volunteers to teach them how to use them.
往往在群里刚教会一个，下一个马上又问同样的问题。
Often in the group just taught one, the next immediately asked the same question.
他们人手不够，又从小区居民当中招了6个志愿者。
They were understaffed and recruited six more volunteers from among the residents of the community.
林光十分佩服的是，新加入的志愿者都很有耐心，一遍遍地教老人家使用微信支付和小程序，实在不会用的就加对方微信，让对方转钱过来，告知住址，帮他们下单。
Lin was impressed by the patience of the new volunteers, who taught the elderly how to use micro-payment and small programs over and over again.
青菜买到第三天，有居民开始在群里问，有没有周黑鸭、鸡蛋、肉和鱼啊。
On the third day, some residents began to ask in the group if there were any ducks, eggs, meat and fish.
有居民说，一个星期没肉了，小孩子吵得慌。
Some residents said that there was no meat for a week and that the children were quarrelling.
2月15日，林光联系到白沙洲的一家食品公司，可以提供肉套餐，188元一套，有瘦肉、排骨、鸡胸肉、半只鸭，他们在武昌区，与此地隔一条长江，虽然有货源，但运输很麻烦，得48个小时才能到。
On February 15, Lin Guang contacted a food company in Pak Sha Chau to provide meat packages of 188 yuan, including lean meat, ribs, chicken breast and half a duck. They were located in Wuchang district, just across the Yangtze River from here.
在群里发起订肉时，居民们欢天喜地，一开始限量100份，不到半小时就买光，提高到200份，最后下单180份。
When ordering meat in the group, residents were overjoyed, starting with a limit of 100, buying it in less than half an hour, increasing it to 200 and finally placing 180 orders.
林光当天晚上跟食品公司的经理说，不行，必须第二天送到。
Lin Guang that night told the manager of the food company that no, it must be delivered the next day.
经理被逼得没办法，第二天晚上五六点送来，林光和志愿者派发到晚上9点。
The manager was forced to arrive at 5pm the next night. Lin Guang and the volunteers handed it out until 9 pm.
从2月初到现在，吕佳俊负责的百步亭站点每天大概会收到五百笔订单。
From the beginning of February to the present, Lu Jiajun in charge of the 100 kiosks will receive approximately 500 orders each day.
90%的订单都是蔬菜和肉，10%是米面油、纸巾、零食等生活用品。
About 90 per cent of the orders were for vegetables and meat and 10 per cent were for daily necessities such as rice noodle, tissue paper and snacks.
日营业额达到两万多，是平日的四倍。
Turnover reached more than 20,000 a day, four times the usual level.
每天上线后，蔬菜大概3到5分钟抢光，上万份肉一两分钟就没了。
Every day after the line, the vegetables about three to five minutes snatch up, tens of thousands of meat a minute or two away.
百步亭由于疫情比较严重，可能需求更高。
Hundred steps pavilions may be in higher demand because of the severity of the outbreak.
他们这个小站点不过四五十平米，日均业绩却是全武汉最高的。
Their small site is only forty-five square meters, the daily average performance is the highest in Wuhan.
“由于人手不足，我们只好提高效率，按套餐供应，每个蔬菜套餐里有五六种蔬菜。
"Because of the shortage of staff, we have to improve our efficiency by serving packages of vegetables with five or six vegetables per set.
个别居民不理解，抱怨我们提供的蔬菜品种不够丰富，但只有把商品种类减少，打包效率才能更高，供应能力才能随之提升。
Individual residents do not understand and complain that we are not offering a rich variety of vegetables, but only by reducing the range of products can packaging be more efficient and supply capacity enhanced.
”百步亭社区，工作人员为超市配送蔬菜食品图/本刊记者 杨楠等待拐点从乐山回到武汉的游洱和他的留守员工们，没能将那拨预定的年夜饭付诸实现。
At the Baibuting community, staff members deliver vegetable food charts / this print journalist Yang Nan waited for the inflection point to return to Wuhan from Leshan and his staff left behind, and failed to put the planned meal into practice.
如今，餐馆二十多号员工都被安排在附近小区宿舍，严格隔离。
Today, more than 20 restaurant employees are housed in the neighborhood dormitory, strict isolation.
厨房里有足够的备货，三名师傅做好饭菜给他们送过去。
There were enough supplies in the kitchen, and the three masters cooked the food for them.
游洱的餐馆是2017年10月开业的，主打社区餐厅，一直注重邻里关系，逢年过节，比如端午节，会送些粽子给街坊，和许多住在附近的顾客建立了友谊。
The restaurant along the river opens in October 2017 and serves as a main community restaurant. It pays close attention to neighbourhood affairs, such as the Dragon Boat Festival, and sends tzung tzu to neighbors and friends with many customers who live nearby.
疫情期间他们没法正常营业，但常给小区的留守老人送菜。
During the outbreak, they were unable to operate normally, but often left food for the elderly left behind in the community.
疫情给餐馆带来的损失是不言而喻的。
The damage to restaurants caused by the outbreak is self-evident.
寇天（化名）的农家小院在百步亭附近开了11年，店里60位员工，年前备了10万多的货，损失了近二十万的年夜饭收入。
Kou Tian (alias) of the farmhouse near the 100 Pavilion opened for 11 years, the store's 60 employees, more than 100,000 years ago prepared more than 100,000 goods, lost nearly 200,000 New Year's dinner income.
罗秋是做服装这一行的，她对工作停滞感到担忧。
Luo Qiu is doing the clothing industry, she is worried about the stagnation of work.
“现在有几个企业在员工不上班的情况下能做到发基本工资的？”她就职的是线下服装门店。
"There are a few companies that are able to make a basic salary when their employees are not at work," she says, taking up an offline clothing store.
“老板自己都撑不下去了，你能要求他什么？去告他么？不可能的。
"The boss can't support himself. What can you ask of him? sue him? Impossible."
他能活下去就不错。
It would be good for him to live.
”每次买东西，罗秋都要花掉上千块，疫情时期的花费更多了，况且，“还有房贷呢。
"Every time she buys, Rachel spends thousands of dollars, and the cost of the epidemic is even higher.
”成东还有三十几个口罩，疫情发生前买的，准备冬天用。
Cheng Dong also has about 30 face masks, bought before the outbreak and ready for winter use.
她说，11日去领出入证的时候，居委会给每家发了三个口罩。
When she went to collect her grounds pass on the 11th, she said, the neighborhood committee issued three masks to each family.
单独包装的，不管一家多少人，一家只有三个口罩。
Packaged individually, no matter how many people in a family, a family of only three masks.
一家四口人，也只发三个口罩。
Four members of the family, but also only three masks.
现在，妈妈每次出门拿一次菜，成东就会担心一次。
Now, every time his mother goes out to get a dish, Cheng Dong worries about it once.
她会用84消毒液拖地，用酒精擦桌子。
She would mop the floor with disinfectant 84 and wipe the table with alcohol.
除了慌张，就是无聊，“想上班。
Besides being flustered, it's boring, "I want to go to work.
”她说。
'she said.
高慧在电话里很健谈。
Gao Hui is very talkative on the phone.
女儿成家后，就不在她身边了，外孙女小时候和他们生活过一段时间，上中学之后回爸爸妈妈那边了，“冷清了很多，搬走了我们也休息一下，但是休息不长，老伴走了。
My granddaughter lived with them for a while when she was a child, and went back to her parents' side after high school. "It was a lot cooler and we moved away.
”高慧有时候身体不好，“是触景生情，我想我老伴了，尤其是家里只有一个人的时候。
"Gao Hui has bad health sometimes." It's touching, I think my wife, especially when there's only one person in the family.
”但她没有搬去女儿家，“我不愿意离开百步亭，我不愿意到他们那去。
"But she did not move to her daughter's house." I don't want to leave the pavilion, I don't want to go to them.
他们也很忙的，孩子要读高中没有办法，他们自己家都不住，在学区旁边租的房子，我不能去打扰他们。
They are also busy, the children have to go to high school, they do not live in their own homes, rented in the school district, I can not disturb them.
我身体还好，能吃能走，能说能笑的。
I'm fine. I can eat, I can walk, I can laugh.
”女儿家离她住的地方要一个小时车程，大多数时候都是打电话，问一声“妈妈还好吧”。
"My daughter's house is an hour's drive from where she lives, and most of the time she calls and asks," Is Mom OK?
以前，一个人在家的时候，高慧早上会去老年活动室——他们喜欢把那个地方称作“托老班”——看电视、聊天，或者看人家打一会儿麻将，中午吃了饭回家休息。
Once upon a time, when a person was at home, Gao Hui would go to the old people's activities room in the morning.They liked to call that place "old-fashioned class" - watching TV, chatting, or watching people play Mahjong for a while, then eating at noon and going home to rest.
现在“托老班”暂停了，“幸福食堂”不营业了，她需要自己一个人面对更多时日的独处。
Now that the "old-age" class is suspended and the Happy Canteen is closed, she needs to be left alone for more time.
她会回忆起万家宴的时刻，她需要这样的时刻，能够让独自一人的生活有所支撑。
She would remember the time of the feast, the moment when she needed to be able to support herself alone.
1月18日的万家宴结束后，高慧带着获得“最佳创意奖”的“幸福食堂”回到家里。
After the January 18 family dinner, Gao Hui returned home with the Happy Meal, the winner of the Best Creative Award.
这道菜在家里像盆景一样摆了几天，直到其中的食材慢慢坏掉，然后，塌了。
The dish remained in the house like a bonsai for several days until the ingredients slowly broke down and then collapsed.
接下来，百步亭、武汉、湖北，以及全国更多的地方，突然进入始料未及的生活。
Next, the hundred-step Pavilion, Wuhan, Hubei, and more places in the country, suddenly entered the unexpected life.
战“疫”专题：点击“阅读原文”即可订阅和购买最新杂志。
Epidemiological topic: Click "Read the original" to subscribe to and buy the latest magazine.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情时期百步亭：突然进入始料未及的生活。
The Hundred Steps Pavilion in the Epidemic Period: Sudden Incursion into Unexpected Life.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "南方人物周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "疫情时期百步亭：突然进入始料未及的生活";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; unexpected.
var msg_desc = "从万家宴至今，一个武汉社区如何面对始料未及的生活";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '危城勇士——武汉医疗抗疫一线实录 | 封面特稿',。
AT RATE & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;
subject_name: '南方人物周刊',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '庚子春节，阻击NCP | 封面专题',。
AT & P & # 124; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;
subject_name: '南方人物周刊',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '疫情凶猛，武汉患者的困境与希望 | 阻击NCP',。
AT & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;
subject_name: '南方人物周刊',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '疫情下的中小微企业： “挺过这关，就像生过病的人会有抗体” | 阻击NCP',。
MSMEs in the epidemic: "Survive this as a sick person has antibodies" & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
subject_name: '南方人物周刊',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
var title ="南方人物周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
