“肺炎患者求助”超话：呼喊与细语。
"Pneumonia patients for help" sutra: shouting and whispering.
曹颖。
Cao Ying.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲2020年1月22日，武汉大学中南医院新型冠状病毒隔离病房，医务人员为新型冠状病毒患者输液。
January 22, 2020, Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital, a new coronavirus isolation ward, for the new coronavirus patients infusion.
（拾城 郑新洽/图）全文共7106字，阅读大约需要14分钟。
(Picking up Cheng Xinchai / Picture) The full text is 7106 words. It takes about 14 minutes to read.
这些星星点点遍布网络的呼喊与细语，既是求助者的心声，也是他们竭尽全力想要抓住的惟一希望。
These scattered cries and whispers are not only the voice of the supplicants, but also the only hope they are trying to grasp.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 曹颖南方周末实习生冯雨昕责任编辑 | 邢人俨血氧饱和度降到了87%。
This article began at Southern Weekend and was not allowed to reproduce without authorization. Cao Yuxin, a weekend intern at Southern Weekend, a reporter with Fung Yuxin, has reduced his oxygen saturation to 87 per cent.
医生给25岁的小武插上吸氧管，他深深地吸了一大口，发微博告诉网友自己的状况。
The doctor inserted an oxygen tube into the 25-year-old and he took a deep sip and tweeted to the netizens about his condition.
“不要睡着！努力调整呼吸！加油！”“红细胞们快帮小武搬氧气啊！”“年轻人，你一定要好起来！”小武枕边的手机不停闪烁着网友们的留言，他盯着屏幕，强撑着充满疲倦与困意的眼睛。
"Don't fall asleep! Try to breathe! Come on!" "Red blood cells help Xiao Wu move oxygen!" "Youve got to get better, young man!" The mobile phone by Wu's pillow flickered with messages from netizens, staring at the screen and forcing tired and sleepy eyes.
2020年1月19日傍晚，小武发烧到39度，他以为自己感冒了。
On the evening of January 19, 2020, Xiao Wu had a fever of 39 degrees. He thought he had a cold.
1月21日，小武先后在湖北省武警医院、湖北省中医院进行CT检查，基本确诊新冠肺炎，但无法收治。
On January 21, Xiao Wu conducted CT examinations at the Hubei Armed Police Hospital and Hubei Traditional Chinese Hospital, basically confirming the new crown pneumonia, but was unable to receive treatment.
当晚11点，父亲得知武汉第七医院开放接收患者，瞒着儿子连夜赶去排队。
That night at 11 o'clock, his father learned that Wuhan seventh hospital open to patients, secretly son rushed to the queue at night.
小武怕交叉感染，逼父亲离开，父亲就躲到医院外面，隔着玻璃窗偷偷望他。
Xiao Wu afraid of cross-infection, forced his father to leave, his father hid outside the hospital, secretly looking at him through the glass window.
七院的核酸检验试纸用完了，小武因无法确诊未被收治。
Seven hospital nucleic acid test paper ran out, Xiao Wu can not be diagnosed untreated.
为住院四处奔走了两天，小武的病情加重，咳血严重，四肢无力。
For two days for the hospital around, Xiao Wu's illness aggravated, hemoptysis serious, limp.
武汉封城当日，小武在微博上发出求助帖，昏昏沉沉地睡下了。
Wuhan sealing day, Xiao Wu on the micro-blog to send out a help post, drowsy sleep.
第二天，3.2万条评论扑面而来。
The next day, 32,000 comments came in.
“加油！一定要挺住！”“床位爆满为何武汉确诊数据一天都没更新？”“同济协和和金银潭医院，去呀兄弟！”但网友提到的这些医院早没床位了。
"Come on! Must hold on!" "Bed full why Wuhan diagnosis data have not been updated for a day?" "Tongji Concorde and gold and silver pool hospital, go ah brother!" But the netizens mentioned that these hospitals had no beds.
女友在评论里找到社区电话，联系社区登记信息。
The girlfriend found the community phone in the comments and contacted the community registration information.
发帖三天后，小武坐上社区的电瓶车去武昌医院就诊。
Three days after posting, Xiao Wu went to Wuchang Hospital on a community electric truck.
小武是较早的网络求助者之一。
Xiao Wu was one of the early web suitors.
他的微博粉丝从最初的一千多人，已涨至近180万，最多的时候，每天增加20万粉丝。
His microblogging fan base has grown from the original 1, 000-odd to nearly 1.8 million, with an additional 200,000 fans a day at its peak.
住院后，小武坚持每隔十个小时发一次微博，分享病情与治疗进展，护士的背影是他常用的配图，那些防护服上画着爱心与太阳，写着“圣洁光明”“晴朗”“都好！”1月29日凌晨五点，小武发烧以至意识模糊，长时间昏睡，大约27个小时没有更新微博。
After being hospitalized, Xiao Wu insisted on tweeting every ten hours to share his illness and progress with his treatment. The nurses' back was his usual set of maps showing love and the sun, with the words "Holy Light" and "Sunny!"
第二天早上，他醒来报平安。
The next morning he woke up and told me he was safe.
网友们的回复接踵而至——“终于看到你更新了，总是跑来看看你好点没”“昨晚一直惦记着你，孩子你一定会挺过这关的”“不停刷你微博，一天没更新很让人担心”“天天惦记着你，看你比看我家猫监控都多”。
"I've been thinking about you last night, my boy. You'll make it through this." "Keep brushing your microblog, it's very worrying not to have a new day" "Think of you every day, more than watching my cat.
计算机行业从业者张超星自2月11日开始爬取微博“肺炎患者求助”超话里的信息，将目前未删的患者求助帖整理出来，搭建了“武汉·人间”网站，他想留存“每个关乎生命的故事”——“每位患者都能得到人文的、个体性的、有尊严的关注。
Since Feb. 11, Zhang, a computer industry practitioner, began crawling through the microblogging "pneumonia sufferer for help" hypertext message, sorting out the patient's help pages and setting up the Wuhan Hou Man website. He wanted to keep "every story about life" - "every patient can receive humane, individualized and dignified attention.
”“肺炎患者求助”超话于1月29日创建。
Pneumonia, a sufferer, was founded on January 29.
有网友反馈，2月3日至4日期间，超话里的微博数量由三千多条下跌到一百四十二条。
From Feb. 3 to Feb. 4, the number of hyperlinks dropped from more than 3,000 to 142, a netizen reported.
张超星在超话里可以追溯到的最早求助帖发于2月3日。
Zhang's earliest help post dated back to Feb. 3 in the hyperspeak.
截至2020年2月26日，“肺炎患者求助”超话有1193条帖子，57.8万粉丝，39.2亿阅读量。
As of February 26, 2020, Pneumonia has 1193 posts, 578,000 fans and 3.92 billion readings.
新浪微博首席执行官王高飞（注：微博昵称“来去之间”）曾表示每天发布于微博的求助信息80%是无效信息。
Wang Gaofei, chief executive of Sina Weibo, has said that 80% of the help messages posted daily on Weibo are invalid.
这意味着，经过微博的审核，最终公开的求助信息是总数的20%。
This means that after Weibo's review, the final open help message is 20% of the total.
张超星发现，一些求助信息并不会进入话题频道中，甚至不会出现在好友的主页上。
Zhang found that some requests for help did not make it onto the topic channel or even on the home page of friends.
张超星曾在一位志愿者的微博主页看到，两三天内共发了32条符合规范的求助帖，但显示在超话页面内的仅7条。
Zhang, who read on a volunteer's microblog home page, posted 32 standard help pages in two or three days, but only seven in hyperlinks.
“武汉·人间”上记录的求助信息远远小于实际求助规模。
The help information recorded on Wuhan and the world is much smaller than the actual help scale.
华东政法大学教授童之伟自2020年1月31日开始转发湖北疑似病例患者求助信息，每天都会收到十几到几十条的求助信息，一些求助微博下的转发和评论多达上千条。
Since January 31, 2020, Tong Zhiwei, a professor at East China University of Political Science and Law, has been forwarding help messages to suspected patients in Hubei Province.
这些星星点点遍布网络的呼喊与细语，既是求助者的心声，也是他们竭尽全力想要抓住的惟一希望。
These scattered cries and whispers are not only the voice of the supplicants, but also the only hope they are trying to grasp.
2020年2月1日，武汉，快递员全副武装在运送包裹。
On February 1, 2020, Wuhan, couriers are fully armed in the delivery of parcels.
（拾城 无畏/图）1“我让爸爸疼了”1月5日，武汉女孩黄秀秀给父亲买了一件外套。
I Made Dad Pain January 5, Wuhan girl Huang Xiuxiu bought her father a coat.
父亲46岁，是一名出租车司机，一年三百四十多天在工作，其中二百多天连续开车12小时，为的是支撑起这个四口人的家庭，他还想多攒点钱为读大四的黄秀秀还助学贷款。
His father, a 46-year-old taxi driver, worked for more than 340 days a year, including more than 200 consecutive 12-hour drives to support the family, and wanted to save more money to pay for Huang Xiuxiu, his senior year student loan.
尽管嘴上责怪女儿乱花钱，但那天，父亲穿着这件新外套，高高兴兴地出门了。
My father wore his new coat and went out happily that day, although he scolded his daughter for spending money foolishly.
2018年12月24日，父亲曾在朋友圈晒出女儿获得学校奖学金的荣誉证书，写道：“我家姑娘了不起呀”。
On December 24, 2018, my father basked in a friend's circle his daughter's certificate of honor for a school scholarship.
黄秀秀截图发了微博：“最幸福的时刻莫过于全家人都因我而骄傲”。
Huang Xiuxiu made a tweet: "The happiest moment is when the whole family is proud of me."
2019年，家里还完了房贷，2020年，黄秀秀就要毕业了。
In 2019, the family also finished the mortgage, in 2020, Xiuxiu Huang will graduate.
新年第一天，黄秀秀看了电影《宠爱》，并成为全场第一位被抽中的幸运观众，得到了冰雪奇缘联名款帽子。
Huang Xiuxiu watched the film "Favorite" on the first day of the New Year and became the first lucky winner to receive a joint hat of ice and snow.
1月2日，黄秀秀身体不适去医院看病，表姐在微博留言提醒她：“记得戴口罩，最近医院好多人肺炎。
On January 2, Huang Xiuxiu was not well enough to go to the hospital. My cousin left a message on Weibo reminding her: "Remember to wear a mask.
”1月20日晚，父亲开始发烧、咳嗽、畏冷，病情逐日加重，27日凌晨1点，被街道卫生门诊部诊断为高度疑似患者，凌晨3点半，父亲被送至武钢二医院。
On the night of January 20, my father began to suffer from fever, cough and chills. He was diagnosed as highly suspicious by the street health clinic at 1 a.m. on the 27th.
黄秀秀描述，父亲入住的院区似由废弃的职工医院楼改造而成，地处偏僻，三名患者一间房，医疗设施简陋，输液针现购，CT机现装。
Huang described the compound, which appeared to have been converted from an abandoned staff hospital building, as isolated, with three patients in one room, poor medical facilities, cash infusions and CT machines.
父亲入院两天后，除了偶尔量体温，并没有做过其他检查。
Two days after his admission, my father had no other tests except for an occasional temperature check.
父亲给黄秀秀发视频，有气无力地说：“盒饭不热了。
The father to Huang Xiuxiu hair video, said feebly: "Boxed rice is not hot.
”1月28日上午，父亲体温达38.5度，距首次发烧过去九天，黄秀秀在微博发出第一条求助信息。
On the morning of January 28, his father had a temperature of 38.5 degrees, nine days after his first fever, and Huang sent out his first message of help on Weibo.
她想为父亲转院，去医疗设备完善的医院做检查。
She wanted to transfer her father to a well-equipped hospital for tests.
在这条微博下，评论17条，转发52次。
Under this micro-blog, 17 comments were made and 52 were forwarded.
她@了几家媒体，请求关注。
She @ several media outlets for attention.
此时，“肺炎患者求助”超话尚未建立，黄秀秀的求助并未得到回应。
At this point, "pneumonia patients for help" sutra-language has not been established, Huang Xiuxiu did not get a response.
1月29日，黄秀秀联系到接父亲转院的车。
On January 29, Huang contacted the car that had been transferred to the hospital by her father.
晚上，她在医院门口徘徊了很久，但希望转瞬即逝。
At night, she lingered at the hospital gate for a long time, but hoped that it would be fleeting.
她只看见父亲被带回病房的背影。
All she saw was her father being brought back to the hospital room.
之后五天，黄秀秀打电话问武钢二医院情况，对方表示正在和天津医疗队做交接；她又给社区书记发短信、打电话，提出回家隔离或转院，对方表示无能为力——小区三十多个人想去医院，能进去已经不容易了。
Five days later, Huang called Wu and asked about the hospital, saying she was making the transition with the Tianjin medical team. She texted and called the community secretary to say there was nothing she could do to isolate or transfer them to another hospital.
那几天，父亲不接电话，也不回消息，只说想睡觉。
During those days, the father did not answer the phone, nor did he reply, but said he wanted to sleep.
2月3日凌晨三点多，父亲连着打来四通电话，睡梦中的黄秀秀没有接到。
Feb. 3, more than three in the morning, father called four telephone, Huang Xiuxiu in his sleep did not receive.
父亲哀求为他转院，因为腿疼，半夜没人管。
The father begged for his transfer, because his leg hurt, nobody took care of him in the middle of the night.
三天后，黄秀秀接到武钢二医院电话，被告知父亲已经休克，让她自行联系转院。
Three days later, Huang Xiuxiu received a phone call from Wuhan Iron and Steel Company II Hospital. She was told her father had gone into shock.
黄秀秀看见父亲的双手又肿又青，“抽了很多血，打了很多针”。
Huang Xiuxiu saw his father's hands swollen and blue, "smoked a lot of blood, made a lot of needles."
他最后转入协和医院。
He was eventually transferred to Concorde Hospital.
2020年2月8日上午，父亲去世，未留下一句话。
On the morning of 8 February 2020, his father died without a word.
黄秀秀和弟弟为父亲换上了新的秋衣秋裤。
Huang Xiuxiu and his younger brother changed their father into new autumn clothes and autumn trousers.
作为早期的网络求助者，黄秀秀没能等到让父亲住大房子的那天。
As an early Internet suitor, Huang did not wait for his father to live in the big house that day.
她写道：“我让爸爸疼了。
"I hurt my father," she wrote.
”2“能给我妈妈加急上报吗？”父亲去世的那天，黄秀秀姐弟与母亲在汉口医院输液大厅的不锈钢排椅上坐了一夜。
"Could you give my mother an urgent report?" On the day of her father's death, Huang Xiuxiu sat down with his mother on a stainless steel row chair in the infusion hall of Hankou Hospital.
母亲2月5日CT检查显示双肺感染，因排不上核酸检测，无法住院。
Mother February 5 CT examination showed that two lung infections, because do not row nucleic acid testing, could not be hospitalized.
黄秀秀与弟弟的CT检查均显示有感染迹象。
The CT findings of Huang Xiuxiu and his brother showed signs of infection.
夜里的最低气温只有2度，输液大厅没有开空调，冷风吹进空旷的大厅。
At night, the lowest temperature only 2 degrees, the infusion hall did not open air conditioning, cold wind into the open hall.
2月8日凌晨五点，黄秀秀在“肺炎患者求助”超话发出微博，请求接出在酒店隔离的母亲，网友纷纷帮她转发。
Feb. 8, at 5 a.m., Huang Xiuxiu in the "pneumonia patients for help" issued a micro-blog, request to be isolated in the hotel mother, netizens help her forward.
这条微博转发4.4万，评论数达五千多条。
The blog posts 44,000 comments and more than 5,000 comments.
一个又一个电话打进来，来自媒体、志愿者、老师，黄秀秀不停接电话直到第二天凌晨三四点。
One phone call after another came in, from the media, volunteers, teachers, Huang Xiuxiu kept on answering the phone until 3 or 4 a.m. the next morning.
汉口医院医生刘少文联系到她，在等到汉口医院床位的第二天，黄秀秀接到了母亲的病危通知书。
Hankou Hospital doctor Liu Shaowen contacted her, waiting until the day after Hankou Hospital bed, Huang Xiuxiu received her mother's critically ill notification.
2月11日，黄秀秀再次在超话中为自己和弟弟求助。
On February 11, Huang Xiuxiu once again asked for help for himself and his brother.
姚晨转发了这条求助，写道：“一家四口，父亲已因肺炎离世，母亲病危入院，姐姐症状更为严重。
"Yao Chen forwarded the request for help, saying:" Four members of my family have died of pneumonia, my mother is in critical condition and my sister has more serious symptoms.
恳求能早日做核酸检测确诊。
Pray for an early diagnosis of nucleic acid.
”当天下午，街道办事处安排姐弟二人做了核酸检测，第二天，黄秀秀入住武汉市第一医院，弟弟被收治到隔离酒店。
That afternoon, the street office arranged for the sisters to undergo a nucleic acid test, and the next day Huang Xiuxiu was admitted to Wuhan First Hospital, where his younger brother was admitted to the isolated hotel.
2月5日，湖北省肺炎疫情防控指挥部令全省定点医院及各级各类医疗机构尽最大努力收治发现的疑似及确诊病例，不能收治的也要被安排集中隔离，即要确保疑似、确诊病例的“应收尽收、应治尽治”。
On February 5, the Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command in Hubei Province ordered designated hospitals and all types of medical institutions at all levels to do their utmost to receive and treat suspected and confirmed cases.
2月10日，武汉政府宣布“清零计划”——截至2月9日人数排查百分比已达99%，并将于2月11日完成所有疑似患者的检测。
On February 10, the Wuhan government announced that it had completed the "Clean Up Plan," with 99 percent of people screened as of February 9, and would complete testing of all suspected patients by February 11.
这期间，“肺炎患者求助”超话里的帖子未曾断过。
During this period, "pneumonia patients for help" in the super-language posts have not been interrupted.
同样决定留宿医院输液大厅的还有49岁的司徒梅。
Also deciding to stay in the hospital infusion hall is 49-year-old Stoume.
由于与丈夫及其他四位亲人同住，家里还有年过七旬的老人，肺部感染的司徒梅戴着三只一次性普通口罩、穿一件雨衣坐着丈夫的电动车去了江汉区协和医院，雨衣让她出了一身汗，衣服都湿透了，在寒冷的夜里，持续低烧的她病情加重。
Living with her husband and four other relatives, the family had a 70-year-old man, lung infection Stu Mei wearing three disposable ordinary masks, wearing a raincoat to sit in her husband's electric car to the Jianghan District Concorde Hospital, the raincoat made her sweaty, her clothes drenched, and on a cold night, her feverish fever worsened.
丈夫还送去了行军床和被褥，一天往返多次给她送饭。
She was also sent to bed and bedding by her husband, who brought her food many times a day.
远在非洲工作的俞科得知母亲的情况后，打听了各种求助渠道，指挥在中国的家人上报社区、拨打市长热线和疫情督导组电话，并向媒体递交求助信息。
When Yu Ke, who worked in Africa, heard about his mother, he asked about various channels of help, directed his family in China to report to the community, called the Mayor's Hotline and the Outbreak Surveillance Unit, and sent help messages to the media.
非洲当地网络信号极差，上传诊断图片时，她甚至打不开链接。
Local networks in Africa are so bad that she can't even open a link when she uploads a diagnostic picture.
2月11日凌晨，俞科成功从非洲发出第一条求助微博。
In the early morning hours of February 11, Yu Koo successfully launched his first help tweet from Africa.
数以千计的留言、转发、私信涌来，许多人帮忙反复填报信息，更多的是鼓励。
Thousands of messages, forwarding, and personal letters poured in, and many helped fill in the information over and over again, more often than not with encouragement.
第二天，社区主动打电话给司徒梅丈夫，询问情况，但未安排入院治疗。
The next day, the community took the initiative to call Stuart's husband to enquire about the situation, but no hospitalization was scheduled.
南方周末记者第一次联系俞科时，她乐观地表示母亲以前跑中长跑，心肺底子好。
When Southern Weekend reporter contacted Yu Ke for the first time, she said optimistically that mother used to run long distance running, heart and lungs good.
“这两天我一直和朋友开玩笑，说很有可能等到安排治疗时，我妈已经痊愈了。
"I've been joking with my friends for the last two days, saying it's quite possible that by the time the treatment is arranged, my mother will have recovered.
”2月12日深夜，司徒梅血压突然飙升，这是她留宿在输液大厅的第三夜。
Late at night on Feb. 12, Stu Mei's blood pressure soared as she spent the third night in the infusion hall.
丈夫半夜爬起来给机关单位打电话，从社区打到江汉区，甚至打了市纪委、省纪委，“很多电话都是限时开放的，我爸下午六点钟打就没人接听了”。
My husband got up in the middle of the night to call authorities, called from the community to Jianghan District, and even hit the city disciplinary committee, provincial disciplinary committee, "a lot of phone calls are open on time, my father called at 6 pm no one answered.
医院只接收社区送来的病人。
The hospital only receives patients from the community.
社区则表示，要么耐心排队，要么自己联系医院。
The community says it will either wait in line or contact the hospital itself.
司徒梅丈夫曾询问社区排队有多少人，对方回答不知道。
Stoume's husband asked the community how many people were standing in line and the other replied that he did not know.
2月12日晚，俞科在各个志愿者群中再次求助：“能给我妈妈加急上报吗？”这些求助信息经由志愿者群或微博超话上报给负责救助的相关部门，它们按危重程度、特殊人群和特殊情况被标注，在与求助发帖者核实姓名住址后上报给地方政府，危重症用户则单独报送政府优先处理。
On the night of Feb. 12, Yu asked for help from various groups of volunteers: "Can I get an urgent report to my mother?" These calls were sent to the relevant departments by volunteer groups or Weibo hyperlinks. They were flagged by severity, special population and special circumstances and reported to the local government after checking the address of their names and addresses, while critical users were reported separately to the government for priority.
“清零计划”宣布的第四天，司徒梅所在的输液大厅一下子变得空荡荡的。
Four days after the announcement of Project Clean, the infusion hall where Stumet was located was suddenly emptied.
2月14日早上，司徒梅接到社区通知，得以入住协和医院，结束了四天五夜的等待。
On the morning of February 14, Stuart was notified by the community that he was admitted to Concorde Hospital for four days and five nights of waiting.
3网络“孤岛”里的老人2月5日凌晨1点34分，微博用户@老苏8811发出一条消息：你好。
Internet "isolated island" of the elderly February 5 at 1: 34 a.m., Weibo users @ Lao Su8811 sent a message: Hello.
这条微博获得近九千条评论和三万多次转发。
The blog received nearly 9,000 reviews and more than 30,000 retweets.
网友感叹77岁的老人要如何下载微博，注册账号，再发出这条求助——“可怜的老人家。
Internet users lament how 77-year-old people to download micro-blog, registration account, and then issued this help - "poor old people.
难以想象他怎么摸索出微博。
It's hard to imagine how he groped for microblogging.
以最老套的方式先问候一句：你好。
Greet in the old-fashioned way: Hello.
多希望一切都好。
I wish everything were all right.
”一个小时后，求助信息才成功发出，来自一位77岁的退休老教师刘立。
It was an hour before the help message arrived, from Liu Li, a 77-year-old retired teacher.
他的女儿刘莺因疫情去世，自己和妻子以及13岁的外孙女均已感染。
His daughter, Liu Yingying, died of the epidemic, and she and her 13-year-old granddaughter were infected.
他的儿子在垃圾工厂加班加点工作，焚烧因疫情产生的医用垃圾。
His son works overtime in a garbage factory, burning medical waste from the outbreak.
求助的目的是希望网友救救13岁的外孙女。
The purpose of the help is to hope netizens save 13-year-old granddaughter.
姜丹将舅舅刘立拟好的微博发了出去。
Jiang Dan sent out a microblog prepared by Uncle Liu Li.
她告诉南方周末记者，两位老人和孙女已于2月7日入院治疗。
She told Southern Weekend that two elderly people and their granddaughter had been hospitalized on February 7.
2月24日，姜丹更新微博，刘立于19日因病情危重已进ICU插管治疗。
Feb. 24, Jiang Dan update Weibo, Liu Li 19 because of serious illness has entered ICU intubation treatment.
来自湖北荆州的志愿者李潼联系网络求助者时，发现很多人不会发超话，甚至不会用微博。
When Li Tong volunteers from Jingzhou, Hubei Province, asked for help, they found that many people could not talk beyond their words or even use microblogs.
事实上，25岁的李潼也不太会玩超话。
In fact, 25-year-old Li Tong is not much of a hypertalker.
“NCP志愿者之家”创立者张丁文告诉南方周末记者，很多老人住在没有物业管理的旧小区，外界联系不上他们，他们也联系不上外界。
Zhang Dingwen, founder of the NCP Volunteer Home, told Southern Weekend that many elderly people live in old neighborhoods where there are no property managers.
惠民苑社区是武汉最大的还建房、公租房、廉住房小区，地处汉阳区三环边，被三环线、汉江和琴断口小河与外界隔开，交通极为不便，仿佛孤岛。
Huimin Yuan community is Wuhan's largest housing, public rental housing, low-cost housing area, located in the Hanyang District, the Third Ring Road, Han River and Chin Chuankou River from the outside world, traffic is extremely inconvenient, like an island.
但社区内居民共计有三万多人，其中老年人占比近80%，独居老人、残疾人众多。
However, there are more than 30,000 residents in the community, of whom nearly 80 per cent are elderly and live alone.
该社区一度面临病毒肆虐、食品匮乏等诸多问题。
The community once faced the ravages of the virus, food shortages and other problems.
求助信息让外界注意到了这个孤岛般的社区：社区内有5名确诊患者未能就医、4名疑似患者未得到隔离。
The help message drew attention to the isolated community of five confirmed patients who had failed to seek medical attention and four suspected patients who had not been isolated.
周围几乎没有大型商超，居民日常赖以生存的小型超市，自封城以后陆续关停。
There are almost no large-scale commercial super-market, daily survival of the residents of the small supermarket, self-styled after the closure.
中国人民大学“RUC新闻坊”发布调查报告《1183位求助者的数据画像：不是弱者，而是你我》，分析了1183条新冠肺炎救助微博，65岁及以上患者占比达42.5%，大多数求助信息发布者是患者子女或其他家属，关键词“爸爸”“妈妈”出现频繁。
The Renmin University of China's "RUC News Square" released the survey "Data Portrait of 1183 Seekers: Not the Weak, It's You and Me," which analysed 1,183 Weibo treatments for pneumonia, with 42.5 percent of patients aged 65 and older.
数据同时呈现，洪山区与硚口区的大量患者所居地与医院距离较远，3公里内没有发热门诊和定点医院。
The data also show that a large number of patients in Hongshan and Zhangkou regions live far away from hospitals, and there are no hot clinics and designated hospitals within 3 kilometers.
若以3公里为收治覆盖半径，洪山区与硚口区的收治无力尤其严重，大量患者不能被覆盖。
If the treatment radius of 3 km for treatment, Hongshan and Zhangkou District treatment is particularly serious, a large number of patients can not be covered.
定点医院少、距离远，又无公共交通，大量老年患者艰难求医，每日蹒跚在医院与住所之间，可能会进一步导致病情的恶化。
The small number of designated hospitals, the long distances involved and the lack of public transportation and the large number of elderly patients who seek medical attention and stagger daily between hospitals and homes may further aggravate the situation.
龚畅曾在超话里为已确诊的父母、外公外婆寻求救治。
Gong Chang has sought medical treatment for her parents and maternal grandparents who had been diagnosed in hyperspeak.
接受南方周末记者采访时，外婆已经顺利住院，母亲即将住院，父亲和外公留守家中。
In an interview with Southern Weekend reporter, Grandma had been hospitalized successfully, her mother was about to be hospitalized, and her father and grandfather stayed at home.
龚畅最担心的是，如果父亲也被隔离了，87岁的外公独自在家怎么办？他曾联系社区沟通照顾外公的事宜，社区表示无能为力。
What Gong worried most was what to do if his father was quarantined and his 87-year-old grandfather was left at home alone.
龚畅不无担心。
Gong Chang is not without worry.
“一个人在家住没问题，但做饭怎么办？这么大年纪他也做不了，即使自己做，年纪大了，忘了关火怎么办？”悬而未决之际，龚畅等来了外公核酸阳性的结果。
"It's OK to live alone at home, but what about cooking? He can't do it at his age, even if he's older and forgets to turn off the fire.
4超话中的非新冠肺炎患者2月22日晚上，21岁的重庆女孩肖燕带上“肺炎患者求助”标签发出微博：“在武汉不是冠状病毒感染就没治了吗？医院不收？难道让他们自身自灭吗？”这条获1.8万次转发、1.5万个点赞、2551条评论的微博至今仍被置顶在她的微博首页。
On the evening of Feb. 22, Xiao Yan, a 21-year-old Chongqing girl wearing the label "pneumonia sufferer for help," tweeted: "Is there no cure for coronavirus infection in Wuhan? Do hospitals not accept it?
肖燕母亲来自重庆巫山县笃平乡，在武汉洪山区做环卫工作，每月工资三千多元。
Xiao Yan's mother from Wushan County, Chongqing Tuxingxiang, in Wuhan Hongshan District do sanitation work, the monthly wage of more than 3,000.
据肖燕微博记录，母亲因响应防疫号召，今年春节没有回老家过年，肖燕来武汉与母亲同住在出租屋里。
Xiao Yan Weibo records that his mother responded to the call for immunization, this Spring Festival did not return home, Xiao Yan came to Wuhan with her mother to live in rental housing.
1月26日，肖燕曾在微博“武汉志愿者报名”标签下发言，表示“不计报酬，不论生死，希望可以出一份力”。
Xiao Yan said January 26, in Weibo "Wuhan volunteer registration" label, said, "regardless of pay, regardless of life and death, hope to play a role."
母亲自2月7日起浑身疼痛，卧床不起，瘦到不成人形。
Mother had been suffering from pain since 7 February and was bedridden and dehumanizing.
2月10日，肖燕连发两条微博，求助网友为非肺炎患者的母亲转发，寻找医治的机会。
Feb. 10, Xiao Yan sent two Weibo, help netizens for non-pneumonia patients' mother forward, looking for medical treatment opportunities.
这两条微博的转发和评论均寥寥，最多的转发87次、评论数11条。
Both tweets received few transmissions and comments, with 87 retweets and 11 comments.
肖燕给所有收治非新冠肺炎病人的医院挨个打电话，没有一个接通的。
Xiao Yan called all the hospitals that treated patients with non-Newly Coronary Pneumonia. None of them were connected.
她和母亲先后去过三家医院，多以无药为理由被拒绝治疗。
She and her mother visited three hospitals and were denied medical treatment on the grounds that they were not medically available.
一次，救护车将他们送到了某定点收治新冠肺炎医院，求诊被拒后，肖燕背着母亲走了六公里，历时三个多小时。
On one occasion, they were taken by ambulance to a designated hospital for treatment of Newcastle Pneumonia. After being denied medical treatment, Xiao Yan walked six kilometers on his mother's back for more than three hours.
她将这段经历写进了求助帖里，很快在“肺炎患者求助”超话中传播开。
She wrote the story into her appeal, which soon spread in the "pneumonia sufferer" hypertext.
肖燕形容，武汉仿佛一座牢笼，困住了她们母女。
Xiao Yan described Wuhan as a cage, trapped their mother and daughter.
2月20日，杨晶晶在超话里求助，父亲杨元运于2月16日离家出走，至今未归。
On Feb. 20, Yang Jingjing asked for help in hyperspeak, and her father, Yang Yuan Yun, left home on February 16 and has not yet returned.
父亲没有携带任何财物与通讯工具，只留下一封遗书，表示自己可能得了新冠肺炎，不愿连累妻女。
The father did not carry any belongings and means of communication, leaving only a suicide note stating that he might have contracted pneumonia, and did not wish to harm his wife and children.
同日傍晚，杨晶晶称父亲被警察找到，已不幸离世。
Later that same evening, Yang said her father had been found by the police and had died.
不久后，她的微信头像由监控里父亲的背影变成了两朵相依偎的菊花，一朵大、一朵小。
Soon after, the head of her microphone changed from her father's back to two nestled chrysanthemums, one big and the other small.
18岁女生李安琪的父亲是武汉几百名重症肿瘤患者之一，2月3日在武汉协和医院被诊断为重症肿瘤，急需手术，但外科医生都已被调去救治肺炎患者。
Li Anqi, an 18-year-old girl whose father is one of hundreds of Wuhan patients with severe cancer, was diagnosed with a severe tumor on February 3 at Wuhan Concorde Hospital and is in urgent need of surgery, but surgeons have been called in to treat patients with pneumonia.
父亲只能在急诊科打针以勉强维持，原本半身无力，逐渐发展为麻痹、失去知觉，乃至失禁、呼吸困难。
The father had to make the needles in the emergency department in order to maintain himself, and gradually developed paralysis, loss of consciousness, incontinence and breathing difficulties.
2月19日，父亲转去武汉大学人民医院求治，院方称其若未感染肺炎就可收治，但CT显示父亲肺部有轻微炎症，被拒绝入院。
On February 19, his father was transferred to Wuhan University People's Hospital for treatment. The hospital said he would have been admitted if he did not contract pneumonia, but CT showed that his father's lungs were slightly inflamed and he was refused admission.
李安琪不得已在“肺炎患者求助”超话里发出求助，若不及时接受手术，父亲最多只剩两个月的生命。
Li Anqi had to ask for help in the "pneumonia patients" superscript, if not timely surgery, the father has only two months to live.
2月25日，父亲成为少数得以入院治疗的重症肿瘤患者。
On 25 February, the father became one of the few severe cancer patients to be admitted to hospital.
李安琪收到好几封私信，向她询问父亲是如何入院的。
Angie Lee received several personal letters asking her about her father's admission to the hospital.
越来越多的非肺炎患者求助帖出现在“肺炎患者求助”超话里。
A growing number of non-pneumonia patients are turning up in the "pneumonia sufferer for help" hyperlink.
但微博一直未建立“非肺炎患者求助”超话。
But Weibo has not yet established the "non-pneumonia patients for help" hypocrisy.
微博相关负责人向南方周末记者解释：肺炎求助超话的影响力大，普及面广，很多非肺炎患者都知道这个渠道；而非肺炎患者的困难也与肺炎疫情引发医疗资源短缺有关。
People who are not pneumonia sufferers are aware of the channel, and those with non-pneumonia are also linked to the shortage of medical resources caused by the pneumonia epidemic.
2月14日，微博联合央视新闻进一步扩展“肺炎患者求助”超话范围，开始接收武汉地区非新冠肺炎危重病人的求助信息。
On Feb. 14, Weibo joined CCTV News to further expand the "pneumonia patients to seek help" hyperspeak, began to receive Wuhan non-new crown pneumonia critical patients to receive help information.
5“别害怕孤单，全世界都在爱你”1月底，张丁文开始组建志愿团队为武汉捐款捐物资，“肺炎患者求助”超话促使他开始线上救援。
"Don't be afraid to be alone, the world is loving you." At the end of January, Zhang Dingwen began to form a volunteer team to donate money to Wuhan.
六百余人的团队里有朋友、员工、网友，五湖四海的人在网络上相聚，搜集求助信息，采购物资以及进行心理援助。
More than 600 people on the team included friends, staff, netizens, people from all over the world gathered on the Internet to gather information for help, procure supplies and provide psychological assistance.
求助帖的评论里，网友常常@张丁文，他总会回复：“交给我”。
In the comment of help post, netizen often @ Zhang Dingwen, he always reply: "Give me".
张丁文每天睡两三个小时，睁眼就开始战斗。
Zhang Dingwen slept two or three hours a day and started fighting with his eyes open.
张丁文的志愿者团队在超话搜集患者信息时，会优先联系重症患者，将他们的信息反馈给社区，并及时更新医院空床信息。
Zhang Dingwen's volunteer team will give priority to contacting patients with severe illness when collecting sufferers' information, feeding their information back to the community and keeping up-to-date information on the hospital's empty beds.
张丁文告诉南方周末记者：“网络渠道是有效果的，也是很有必要的，现在就是互联网的时代。
Zhang Dingwen told Southern Weekend reporter: "The network channel is effective, is also very necessary, now is the Internet age.
”从2月起开始在网上搜集患者信息，他每天会收到约一两千条信息。
He has been collecting information online since February and receives about one to two thousand messages a day.
据他统计，目前已经累积回复求助一万三千七百多次，直接帮助308人，间接协助862人。
He said he had responded to more than 13,700 requests for help, directly to 308 people and indirectly to 862 people.
龚畅在微博超话发出求助信息后，很多网友给他打电话，加微信，拉他进求助群，有的群里五六十人，有的群里两百多人。
Gong Chang in the micro-blog after the message of help, many netizens to call him, add micro-letters, pull him into the help group, some groups of 50 or 60, some groups of more than 200 people.
“不止一股力量来做这个事情，应该是好几个力量来做这个事情。
"There is more than one force to do this, and there are several forces that should do it.
”大年初一，志愿者楼威辰带着自购的4000只口罩从浙江安吉出发前往武汉，一路上，他的车子与其他车辆反向而行。
Volunteers carrying 4,000 masks set off from Anji, Zhejiang Province, to Wuhan on the first day of the Lunar New Year, his car and other vehicles moving in the opposite direction.
这是楼威辰第一次来武汉——街景萧瑟、满目冷清，没有一丝人与车的痕迹，只见楼影幢幢，几乎像座空城。
It was Lou Wei-chen's first visit to Wuhan - a bleak, desolate street scene, with no trace of people or cars, but a swarm of shadows, almost like empty cities.
原本打算送完口罩就回家的楼威辰决定留下来。
Lou Weichen, who had intended to send his mask home, decided to stay.
他最先去武汉红十字会做志愿者，负责物资搬运和对外宣传工作。
He first went to Wuhan Red Cross as a volunteer, in charge of material handling and publicity work.
红十字会被接管后，楼威辰成为独立志愿者，而黄秀秀正是他帮助的第一位网络求助者。
After the Red Cross was taken over, Lou Weichen became an independent volunteer, and Huang Xiuxiu was the first online suitor he helped.
2月11日，网友将黄秀秀一家的情况转发给楼威辰。
Feb. 11, the netizens will Huang Xiuxiu family situation forward to Lou Weichen.
他为黄秀秀姐弟及母亲采购药品食品和生活用品，送到医院。
He purchased medicine, food and daily necessities for Huang Xiuxiu and his mother and took them to hospital.
此后，他用微博继续发布消息，召集而来的十几位网友替他处理线上求助信息，他则负责线下救助，为武汉居民采购、运送物资。
Since then, he continued to post the message, gathered a dozen netizens for him to handle online help information, he is responsible for offline relief, for Wuhan residents, procurement, delivery of goods.
求助者居所四散，住在江岸区的他最远开车到黄陂区。
The residence of the supplicant is scattered. He drives up to Huangpi District.
短短一个月，车跑了六千公里，轮胎都磨损了。
In just one month, the car ran 6,000 kilometers and the tires were worn out.
楼威辰原本从事文案策划，过着标准的白领生活，现在已辞去工作。
Lou Weichen was originally engaged in paperwork planning, leading a standard white-collar life, has resigned from his job.
他入不敷出，每天只吃一顿饭，吃邻居或者朋友支援的面包和饭菜。
He was unable to make ends meet, eating only one meal a day and bread and meals supported by neighbours or friends.
2月25日，有武汉市民给了他六只包子，他发朋友圈炫耀：“是肉包哦！”2月8日晚近11点，楼威辰和朋友来到武汉市中心医院，为李文亮医生献上一束花。
Feb. 25, Wuhan city gave him six steamed buns, he sent friends around the show: "Oh!" Feb. 8 night nearly 11 o'clock, Lou Wei-chen and friends came to Wuhan City Central Hospital to offer a bunch of flowers for Dr. Li Wenliang.
那晚天气有些冷，陆续有民众自发前来悼念，医院门口停了许多车，栅栏外摆满鲜花，还有无人机在上方盘旋。
It was a bit cold that night, with people coming to mourn spontaneously, cars parked outside the hospital, flowers outside the fence, and drones circling overhead.
花簇中间是李文亮戴着口罩的相片，装裱在相框里，旁边还有一瓶红星二锅头。
In the middle of the flower clusters is a photo of Li Wenliang wearing a mask, mounted in a frame, beside a bottle of red star Erguotou.
每次运送物资时，楼威辰都会附上纸条，写一些鼓励与关怀的话。
Every time the goods are delivered, Lou Wei-chen will attach a note, write some words of encouragement and concern.
情人节那天，楼威辰花了两三个小时找到一家营业的花店，买了束雏菊送给住院的黄秀秀，在那张小纸条上，他写道：“别害怕孤单，全世界都在爱你。
On Valentine's Day, Lou Wei-chen spent two or three hours to find an open florist, bought a daisy and gave it to Huang Xiuxiu in hospital. On the note, he wrote, "Don't be afraid to be alone.
”（应受访者要求，小武、张超星、黄秀秀、司徒梅、俞科、李潼、龚畅、肖燕、李安琪为化名）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
At the request of the respondents, Xiao Wu, Zhang Xing, Huang Xiuxiu, Stu Mei, Yu Ke, Li Tong, Gong Chang, Xiao Yan and Li Anqi as aliases) poked the following picture and continued to read the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“肺炎患者求助”超话：呼喊与细语。
"Pneumonia patients for help" sutra: shouting and whispering.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "“肺炎患者求助”超话：呼喊与细语";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
