逝者｜武汉救助员吴骞：专门护送别人回家的人，再也没能回家。
The deceased, Wuhan rescuer Qian Wu: The person that escorts others home specially, never can go home again.
刘诗洋 王伟凯。
Liu Shiyang Wang Weikai.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲医护人员将患者送入武汉体育中心方舱医院（2月12日）。
Medical staff took the patient to Wuhan Sports Center Fang Cao Hospital (February 12).
（新华社记者 肖艺九/图）全文共3321字，阅读大约需要7分钟。
The full text is 3321 words, which takes about seven minutes to read.
吴骞从1月18日起就住进了宾馆。
Qian Wu has been living in a hotel since January 18.
他当时在朋友圈里写：“做了好事要有运啊”——这条朋友圈的上一条，是他16号出差广州后，与失聪男孩家人的合影。
He wrote in his circle of friends, "It's good luck to do something good." The last item in this circle of friends was his photo taken with the family of a deaf boy after he went to Guangzhou on a business trip on the 16th.
然而好运并没有降临在吴骞身上。
However, good fortune did not come to Qian Wu.
无法收治意味着做不了核酸检查，而没有检测结果的确认单，社区就没法再向上汇报。
Lack of access meant that nucleic acid tests could not be performed, and without confirmation of test results, communities could no longer report upward.
他就这样陷入了死循环。
In this way he was caught in a loop.
在接下来的一周，吴骞成了徘徊在统计数字外的“疑似患者”。
Over the next week, Wu became a "suspected patient" hovering over the statistics.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 刘诗洋 王伟凯责任编辑 | 张玥过去一个月，疫情肆虐之下，许多普通人悄悄离开了这个世界。
This article began at Southern Weekend and was not allowed to reproduce without authorization South Weekend reporter Liu Shiyang Wang Weike, the responsible editor and director of Chang Liang. Many ordinary people have quietly left the world in the past month, amid the ravages of the epidemic.
作为疫情的发源地，武汉发生了最多的死亡，截至2020年2月27日12时，死亡2104人，占全国疫情死亡人数的77%。
Wuhan, the epicentre of the epidemic, suffered the largest number of deaths, with 2,104 deaths, or 77 per cent, as at 1200 hours on 27 February 2020.
37岁的武汉救助管理站调度员吴骞就是其中之一。
Wuhan rescue management station dispatcher Qian Wu, 37 years old is one of them.
没有人能完整地勾画出他们从感染到死亡的真实路径，但应该记得的是，发生在2020年早春这场中国人与新冠肺炎病毒的战斗中，他们曾经的努力和无奈。
No one can map out their true path from infection to death, but it should be remembered that they struggled and became helpless in the early spring of 2020, the battle between the Chinese and the New Crown Pneumonia virus.
1 最后一趟任务1月16日中午，武汉救助管理站调度员吴骞接到一项任务：护送一名独自坐火车来武汉的失聪男孩回家。
At noon on January 16, Wuhan rescue management station dispatcher Qian Wu received a mission: to escort a train to Wuhan deaf boys home.
护送别人回家是他的日常工作。
It is his daily job to escort others home.
吴骞是武汉人，出生于1982年11月，2005年毕业于武汉理工大学艺术设计专业，2010年考入武汉市救助管理站。
Wu Qian, a Wuhan native born in November 1982, graduated from Wuhan University of Technology in 2005 and entered the rescue management station in Wuhan in 2010.
救助管理站隶属民政系统，原名收容遣送所，于2003年更名。
The Office of Assistance and Management, formerly known as the Institute of Internment and Repatriation, was renamed in 2003.
每年春节都是全国各地的救助站最忙的时候，无家可归者们在此时总是更需要帮助。
Homeless people are always in greater need of help at a time when Spring Festival is the busiest time around the country.
据吴骞的同事杨晓回忆，因为小男孩的父亲已经在广州等待，单位要求他们当天接到任务10分钟之后就收拾好，赶到汉口火车站。
Yang Qian, a colleague, recalled that the boy's father had been waiting in Guangzhou, and asked them to pack up 10 minutes after receiving the assignment and return to Hankou railway station.
那时武汉还没有进入紧张状态，车站里几乎没人戴口罩。
Wuhan was not in a state of tension, and few people were wearing masks at the station.
到了广州，将孩子交还给他父亲，已经入夜。
When he arrived in Guangzhou, he returned the child to his father.
正值春运，回武汉的车票已经售罄，吴骞联系当地的工作站，想办法安排了晚上十点半的站票。
Chunyun, back to Wuhan tickets have sold out, Wu Qian contact the local workstation, think of ways to arrange 10: 30 evening station tickets.
一行人挤在餐车里，吴骞把座位让给了同事，自己则坐在车厢过道的地板上吃泡面。
The group huddles in the dining car, Wu Qian gives his seat to colleague, oneself sits on the floor of carriage aisle eats bubble noodles.
做了十年救助工作的吴骞此时不会想到，他刚刚完成的是自己生命中最后一次任务。
At this point in time, Qian Wu, who has been a 10-year helper, will not think that he will finish the last task of his life.
据吴骞的爱人张小璐对南方周末记者回忆，出差是吴骞工作的常态。
According to Wu Qian's lover Zhang Xiaolu recalls to Southern weekend reporter, travel is Wu Qian normal work.
他俩2010年5月登记结婚，6月吴骞就去了救助站工作，他工作认真负责，什么事都抢着干，工作内容最开始是上街巡逻，后来逐渐就变成了出差护送。
They were married in May 2010 and went to work in a support station at Qian Wu in June. He worked diligently and responsibly, doing everything from patrolling the streets to gradually becoming a business escort.
她知道丈夫对自己很节俭，工作又很拼，总担心他一个人在外，吃不好，住不好。
She knew her husband was thrifty and hard-working, and she was always afraid that he would stay alone, eat badly, and live badly.
在单位，吴骞的工作原本是调度，但只要人手不够，其他事情也要顶上去。
In the unit, the work of Wu Qian originally is dispatch, but as long as manpower is insufficient, other matter also should go up.
过去多年，为出差，他俩没少吵过架。
They've had a lot of fights over the years for business trips.
在返程路上，吴骞告诉张小璐，他要17号凌晨3点才能到武汉，决定不回家直接去单位，睡一会就接着上班。
On the return journey, Wu Qian told Zhang Lu that he would not arrive in Wuhan until 3 a.m. on the 17th, and decided to go to work instead of returning home.
1月17日下午，吴骞像往常一样下班回家，因为前一天没休息好，他和家人聊了会就去睡了。
Qian returned home from work on the afternoon of January 17, as usual, because he did not rest well the previous day, he chatted with his family and went to bed.
第二天早晨起床，他觉得浑身乏力，一测体温，38.2度。
When he got up the next morning, he was tired and had his temperature taken at 38.2 degrees.
武汉当时还未笼罩在疫情的阴影之下。
Wuhan was not yet in the shadow of the epidemic.
吴骞发现自己发烧这天，正是农历小年。
Qian Wu found himself with a fever, it is the lunar year.
在武汉市江岸区百步亭花园社区，4万多个家庭正聚在一起，参加后来闻名全国的“万家宴”。
More than 40,000 families are getting together in the Bumbuting Garden community in the Jiangan district of Wuhan City to attend what became known as a "family feast."
因为家里有两个女儿，小的才两岁。
Because the family has two daughters, as young as two years old.
张小璐担心是流感，怕传染给孩子，就催促吴骞赶快去医院挂针。
Zhang Xiaolu worried is flu, afraid infects the child, urge Wu Qian to go to the hospital quickly to hang needle.
一个家庭原本的正常生活也在那一刻戛然而止。
The normal life of a family comes to an abrupt end at that moment.
2“希望站里能救救我”吴骞从1月18日起就住进了宾馆。
2 "Hope station can save me" Wu Qian from January 18 to live in a hotel.
他当时在朋友圈里写：“做了好事要有运啊”——这条朋友圈的上一条，是他16号出差广州后，与失聪男孩家人的合影。
He wrote in his circle of friends, "It's good luck to do something good." The last item in this circle of friends was his photo taken with the family of a deaf boy after he went to Guangzhou on a business trip on the 16th.
然而好运并没有降临在吴骞身上。
However, good fortune did not come to Qian Wu.
他持续发烧不退，1月20号，吴骞的CT显示肺部有毛玻璃状白影，医生当时告诉他，是病毒性肺炎，但究竟是什么病毒，没有明确答案。
He continued to have a fever. On January 20, a CT scan of the lungs showed a hairy, white Qian, who told him it was viral pneumonia, but there was no clear answer to the question.
那也是武汉疫情第一次受到全民关注的一天。
It was the first day that Wuhan received public attention.
当天，钟南山院士首次对外肯定新冠肺炎病毒存在人传人，从这一天起，国家卫健委开始每天汇总发布新增病例，北京、上海等城市都相继出现病例。
On the same day, academician Zhong Nan Shan confirmed the existence of human-to-human transmission of the new crown pneumonia virus, since that day, the National Fitness and Health Commission began to issue a total of new cases every day, Beijing, Shanghai and other cities have emerged.
而在武汉，危机还潜伏在水面之下。
In Wuhan, however, the crisis is still lurking below the surface.
人传人公开后，患者在短短几天内就挤满了整个武汉的发热门诊。
After human-to-human transmissions, patients packed the entire Wuhan fever clinic in a matter of days.
1月20号当天，吴骞通过微信向他的直属领导刘勇请假并说明病情，刘勇询问：是否新冠肺炎病毒？吴骞回复，自己办不了住院，呼吸内科都没有床位，而且没有核酸试剂盒，也查不出来，只能先打针看看。
Qian Liu, his immediate leader, was asked whether he would be admitted to hospital with no beds in the respiratory department and no nucleic acid test kits.
为了尽早做检测，吴骞先后去了社区医院、新华医院、武汉市中心医院和武汉红十字会医院，但始终没能入院治疗。
Qian community hospital, Xinhua hospital, Wuhan city central hospital and Wuhan Red Cross hospital, but has not been able to hospital treatment.
张小璐在家也疯狂给社区打电话，想通过上报病例得到住院机会，但得到的回复总是令人失望——无法收治意味着做不了核酸检查，而没有检测结果的确认单，社区就没法再向上汇报。
Zhang Xiaolu also frantically calls the community at home, trying to report cases for hospitalization, but the response has always been disappointing - the inability to treat means she can't do nucleic acid tests, and without confirmation of the test results, the community can no longer report up.
他就这样陷入了死循环。
In this way he was caught in a loop.
在接下来的一周，吴骞成了徘徊在统计数字外的“疑似患者”。
Over the next week, Wu became a "suspected patient" hovering over the statistics.
作为相处十年的同事，在刘勇和吴骞的微信聊天记录里，吴骞起初还比较乐观，他似乎并不相信自己感染了新冠肺炎。
A 10-year-old co-worker, Qian Wu appeared optimistic at first in a microphone chat with Qian and Qian Wu, who didn't seem to believe he had contracted the disease.
他曾回复刘勇说，医生建议他在门诊打针，去了医院只会越来越严重。
He had replied that the doctor had advised him to have an injection in the outpatient clinic and that going to the hospital would only get worse.
“那个病早就隔离了。
'That disease has long been isolated.
”在吴骞四处求医的那些日子里，张小璐能做的就是不停地打电话，并强烈要求吴骞换一个好一点的酒店。
"All Zhang could do in the days that Wu Qian was seeking medical treatment was to call constantly and urge Wu to change a better hotel.
这期间，吴骞的父亲曾陪他去医院排队做检查，两人从早上一直排到傍晚。
At the same time, Wu Qian's father accompanied him to the hospital line up for examination, two people from the morning until evening.
后来吴骞自己去酒店住下，老人又给他送饭，每次去都想多看他两眼，但为了隔离，吴骞总是躲在厕所里，让父亲把饭放下就走。
Then Qian himself to live in the hotel, the old man gave him food, every time to go to look at his eyes, but in order to isolate, Wu Qian always hiding in the toilet, let his father down to go.
但到了除夕那天，他母亲实在想念儿子，就跑去酒店看他。
But on New Year's Eve his mother really missed her son and ran to the pub to see him.
回家后不久便出现发烧的症状。
Soon after returning home, he developed symptoms of fever.
张小璐回忆，婆婆应该就是那天被感染了，但他们当时希望吴骞安心治病，就没有告诉他。
Zhang Xiaolu recalls, mother-in-law should be infected that day, but they hope Wu Qian peace of mind treatment, did not tell him.
一家人就这样被病情隔绝。
The family was thus isolated.
随后的日子里，绝望和悲观开始笼罩吴骞，在1月26日和刘勇微信聊天时他说，现在的解决办法，就是在外面熬，熬到不行了医院才收，刘勇将这些情况都汇报给了站里，希望能帮他解决床位的问题，但彼时正赶上武汉疫情最猛烈的时候，在他们通话的当天，仅武汉就有698个新增病例。
In the days that followed, despair and pessimism began to hang over Qian and Qian Liu, who said during a chat with him on January 26 that the solution was to stay out until the hospital was exhausted.
直到此时，吴骞仍没有确诊感染新冠肺炎，他也因此而得不到更多治疗。
At that time, Wu Qian still did not confirm infect new canopy pneumonia, he also cannot get more treatment as a result.
在与刘勇的聊天中，他第一次，也是唯一一次说：“希望站里能救救我。
In the chat with Liu Yong, he said for the first time and only time: "Hope the station can save me.
”就这样一直拖到1月28日，吴骞终于住进了汉口医院。
"So he waited until January 28, at last Qian entered the Hankou Hospital.
但此时他的病情已进入重症，由于武汉当时启动最严格的隔离封闭措施，即便是家人也无法每天获知吴骞的情况。
But by this time his condition has entered the serious illness, because Wuhan then initiates the most strict quarantine measures, even the family can not learn about Wu Qian daily.
同事杨晓后来回忆，吴骞住院后，有一次她发微信询问病情，吴骞只回了三个字：“我在熬”。
Colleague Yang Xiao later recalls, Wu Qian is hospitalized, one time she sends a letter to enquire medical condition, Wu Qian only returned 3 words: "I boil".
3“我要接他回来”去广州出差的26天后，2月10日，武汉救助员吴骞离开了人世。
3 "I will take him back" to Guangzhou on business 26 days, February 10, Wuhan rescuer Qian Wu died.
直到他去世，也没人能确认吴骞到底是怎么生病的。
No one can confirm how Qian Wu became ill until he died.
南方周末记者接触的多位同事和家人，都猜测1月16号那次去广州出差前后，他感染了病毒。
Several colleagues and family members contacted by Southern Weekend reporter speculated that he had contracted the virus before and after his trip to Guangzhou on January 16.
但在张小璐看来，1月18号吴骞发烧后没得到有效救治，以及多次去医院可能存在的交叉感染，才是他生病的最主要原因。
But in Zhang Xiaolu, January 18 Wu Qian fever did not get effective treatment, and a number of hospital cross-infection may be the main reason for his illness.
和大多数起初都蒙在鼓里的普通武汉市民一样，患者只能依据官方给出的说法，来确定自己的感染路径。
Like most ordinary Wuhan residents, who were initially uninformed, patients can only determine their infection paths based on official accounts.
在张小璐的记忆里，他们一家都不怎么吃海鲜，也从来都没去过华南海鲜市场。
In Zhang Xiaolu's memory, their family do not eat seafood, and has never been to the South China seafood market.
而刘勇告诉南方周末记者，吴骞肯定是在工作中感染的，除了去广州出差那次，武汉救助管理站在华南海鲜市场旁边就有一个办公点，他们之前都经常要过去。
But Liu Yong told Southern Weekend reporter, Wu Qian is certainly in the work, besides go to Guangzhou on business, Wuhan rescue management station in south China seafood market next to an office, they used to have to go.
但整个救助站，却只有吴骞一人生病。
But entire rescue station, only Wu Qian is ill.
与他同去广州出差的杨晓，后来也曾发烧，但吃完药仅过了一天就没事了。
Yang Xiao, who went to Guangzhou with him on business, also had a fever later, but only a day after taking the medicine was all right.
在吴骞去世前一小时，医院曾给张小璐打电话，通知她可能不行了。
An hour before the death of Qian Wu, the hospital called Zhang Xiaolu and informed her that she might not be able to.
张小璐让医生帮忙接通视频，要见他最后一面。
Zhang Xiaolu asked the doctor to help put the video through to see him for the last time.
视频接通的时候，吴骞7岁的大女儿正在旁边。
At the time the video is connected, Wu Qian 7-year-old daughter is nearby.
已经23天没见过爸爸，她一见面就大哭起来，对着手机反复问：“爸爸你怎么了？怎么躺下了？”当时的吴骞，已经不能讲话。
Have not seen a father in 23 days, she burst into tears at first meeting, ask repeatedly to mobile phone: "Daddy what's wrong? How to lie down?" Wu Qian at that time, can't speak.
那是一家人最后的告别。
It was the last farewell of the family.
张小璐说，她从没见过女儿这样不停地哭。
Zhang Xiaolu said she had never seen her daughter crying like that.
在同事和家人的印象里，吴骞一直是个乐观而坚强的人。
In the impression of colleagues and family, Wu Qian has been an optimistic and strong person.
在死亡到来三天前，他还曾期待奇迹，在2月7日QQ空间里，他这样写道：“每天咬牙检查，就是为了身后的她们。
Three days before his death, he had hoped for a miracle. In the QQ space on February 7, he wrote, "Every day he gnaws his teeth for the sake of them.
期待我的拐点早点到来。
Expect my inflection point to arrive early.
”然而奇迹终究没有发生。
But miracles don't happen.
现在，张小璐已很少在家提起吴骞。
Now, Zhang Xiaolu seldom mentions Wu Qian at home.
白天，她想尽办法让自己忙起来，照顾两个孩子，料理家里大小事。
During the day she did everything in her power to keep herself busy, take care of her two children and take care of household chores.
一直等到夜里孩子们都睡了，她才会推门走进吴骞的书房，悄悄想念自己的丈夫。
Until the night the children are asleep, she will push the door into Wu Qian's study, quietly miss her husband.
提起吴骞，她几乎全程都在哭泣。
At the mention of Qian Wu, she cried almost all the time.
当南方周末记者问起，那24天里，吴骞说过什么让你印象深刻的话时，她回答：“他说很对不起我，这段时间（指春节）不能在家里。
When Southern Weekend reporter asks, what did Wu Qian say to impress you in those 24 days, she answers: "He says very sorry for me, this time cannot be at home.
我说没事，你要加油。
I said it's okay. Come on.
他说等过了这一段，我一定会对你更好的。
He said after waiting for this paragraph, I will certainly be better for you.
”这对结婚10年的夫妇原本还有很长的路要走。
The 10-year-old couple still have a long way to go.
他们家去年刚换了新房，张小璐工作不稳定，家庭收入不高，平时大的支出主要靠吴骞应付，他的离开让这个家庭一下子失去了顶梁柱。
The family just changed new house last year, Zhang Xiaolu job instability, family income is not high, usually large expenditure depends on Qian Wu, his departure from the family suddenly lost the pillar.
武汉救助员吴骞的遗体于2月10日火化。
The body of Qian Wu, a Wuhan rescuer, was cremated on February 10.
同样患病的母亲至今也未痊愈，她到现在也不知道儿子去世的消息。
The same sick mother has not yet recovered, and she does not know the news of her son's death.
因为武汉的防疫措施至今仍未解除，家人也没法为吴骞操办后事。
Because Wuhan cordon sanitaire measure still did not lift, family also cannot do for Wu Qian aftercare.
“我现在想的，就是疫情赶快结束，我要接他回来。
"What I'm thinking is that the outbreak is over, and I'm going to take him back.
”张小璐这样说道。
"said Zhang Xiaolu.
吴骞的同事，对他都很有感情，一位同事在聊起跟他的最后一通电话时，突然泣不成声，挂断了南方周末记者的电话。
Wu Qian's colleagues, very sentimental to him, a colleague talking about his last telephone, suddenly sobbed, hung up Southern Weekend reporter's telephone.
戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
Click the image below to continue reading the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
逝者｜武汉救助员吴骞：专门护送别人回家的人，再也没能回家。
The deceased, Wuhan rescuer Qian Wu: The person that escorts others home specially, never can go home again.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "逝者｜武汉救助员吴骞：专门护送别人回家的人，再也没能回家";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; deceased, Qian Wu: A person who has escorted anyone home never came home or quot;;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
