武汉疫情升级，医疗物资募集七日实录。
Wuhan escalation of the disease, medical supplies collection for seven days.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 活粒。
The following article comes from living grains.
Author 王丽娜 辛颖。
Author Wang Lina Xinying.
活粒。
Live granules.
联动三医，桥接资本，直达健康。
Connect three medicine, bridge capital, directly to health.
在这场抗击新病毒的战争中，一线医护人员不得不为自身防护揪心，他们和医院、捐赠人一起被迫卷入一场医疗物资的募捐赛文|《财经》记者王丽娜 辛颖编辑|王小这是历次疫情中，一线医院大批量第一次直接向公众募捐，也是第一次，诸多媒体、平台齐力在发布新闻中，加入了向全社会发布募捐需求的信息。
In the war against the new virus, front-line health workers have had to worry about their defenses. Together with hospitals and donors, they have been forced to participate in a medical collection. This is the first time in history that a first-line hospital has raised money directly from the public.
不仅新型冠状病毒感染疑似感染者，就是冲在抗击病毒一线的医护人员，也难得有全套的N95口罩、防护服、护目镜，就像战士在战场上未着盔甲。
Not only is the new coronavirus infection suspected, but also the front-line health care workers, rarely have a full set of N95 masks, protective clothing, goggles, just like soldiers on the battlefield without armor.
即便是SARS时期，也没有对医疗物资发生过这么迫切的需求。
Even during the SARS period, there was no such urgent need for medical supplies.
红十字会、湖北新型肺炎防控指挥部、各医疗机构，都发出医疗物资告急公告，接受社会捐赠。
The Red Cross Society, the Hubei New Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command, and all medical institutions have issued emergency notices of medical supplies and accepted social donations.
蕴藏在社会的医疗防护物资，已成为各家“争抢”的对象。
Contains in the society the medical protection material, has become each "competes for" the object.
在一个民间临时搭建的湖北医疗物资需求信息平台上，截至2020年1月27日12时，来自医院的需求有103家。
As of 12: 00 p.m. on 27 January 2020, there were 103 requests from hospitals on a temporary civilian-built Hubei medical material demand information platform.
如此规模的医疗物资告急背后，应对重大突发公共事件的应急物资储备和调度机制，是如何发挥作用的？疫情凶猛，措手不及的远不止患者。
How do emergency stocks and dispatch mechanisms for responding to major public emergencies work behind a medical emergency of this magnitude? The epidemic is fierce, and the patients are not alone.
除夕夜，医疗物资紧缺不再是“秘密”没有消毒剂，“联系一个厂家，结果刚刚被（其他医院）截胡。
On New Year's Eve, a shortage of medical supplies was no longer a "secret" no disinfectant. "Contact one manufacturer, only to be picked up by [other hospitals].
”武汉一名医务人员说。
"said a medical worker in Wuhan.
护目镜、N95口罩、防护服、眼罩等医疗防护物资，都是医院之间被迫“争抢”的资源。
goggles, N95 mask, protective clothing, eye mask and other medical protection materials, are forced between hospitals "scramble" resources.
湖北黄冈市黄州总医院负责受捐的童慧，刚经历一场类似“竞争”。
Huanggang Huangzhou General Hospital in Huanggang City is responsible for the donation of Tong Hui, just experienced a similar "competition."
1月25日，当地民营企业自发组织捐赠，告诉她有消息称武汉市一个仓库存放11万只外科口罩。
On January 25, local private enterprises spontaneously organized donation, told her that a warehouse in Wuhan City stored 110,000 surgical masks.
外科口罩防护力不强，“有总比没有好”，童慧声音沙哑着告诉《财经》记者。
Surgical mask protection is not strong, "there is better than no better," Tong Hui voice hoarse told Caijing.
武汉、黄冈均已“封城”，黄州总医院院长当即联系湖北省疫情防控指挥部，拿到通行证，又求助黄冈市公安局，警车开路进入武汉。
Wuhan, Huanggang have "closed the city," the director of the Huangzhou General Hospital immediately contact the Hubei Provincial Epidemiology and Control Command, get a laissez-passer, and Huanggang Public Security Bureau, police cars drove into Wuhan.
“挺紧急的，怕被别人抢先一步，现场又谈价钱，才买过来。
"Very urgent, afraid to be a step ahead of the others, the scene and the price, just bought.
”童慧说。
"said Tong Hui.
早在除夕前夜，武汉市新型肺炎防控指挥部以通告形式，公布的接受捐赠物资，有医用设备、防护设备、耗材（其中口罩需求量较大）等。
As early as New Year's Eve, Wuhan New Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command announced the receipt of donated materials in the form of medical equipment, protective equipment, consumables (one of which more demand for masks).
同日，武汉同济医院、武昌医院等定点收治发热病人的医院，也陆续发布社会捐赠公告，急求护目镜、N95口罩、防护服等。
On the same day, Wuhan Tongji Hospital, Wuchang Hospital and other designated hospitals to treat febrile patients, also issued social donation announcements, urgently seeking goggles, N95 masks, protective clothing, etc.
武汉医生圈里除夕夜的一条信息称，“大年三十，护目镜口罩全部自备，有的甚至家人买的，你们什么时候见过医生戴着五颜六色的口罩。
Wuhan doctor circle of New Year's Eve a message said, "New Year's Eve, goggles mask all bring their own, some even family bought, when you have seen the doctor wearing colorful masks.
”被大量转发。
"was forwarded in large numbers.
形势紧迫。
The situation is urgent.
1月24日，微信公号“湖北之声”发布请求支援信息，提出武汉多家医院物资紧张，可能只够维持3—5天，并附上17家医院官方发布的信息。
On January 24, Wei Xin official "Hubei Voices" issued a request for support information, saying that Wuhan hospitals are under material strain, may only last 3-5 days, and attach 17 official hospital information.
有医院的人士看了却颇有点羡慕，“至少还能管个三五天，我们医院初三就开始只收病毒性肺炎病人，估计第一天都可能不够用，我们现在一个N95口罩用好几天”，在“湖北之声”留言求助称。
"At least for three or five days, we only accept patients with viral pneumonia on the third day of our hospital, probably not enough for the first day. We now have a N95 mask for a few days," Hubei Voice said in a message.
志愿者张鸣帮助医院对接捐赠信息。
Volunteers Zhang Ming helped the hospital docking donation information.
据他观察，1月25日下午，在武汉市的一些大医院，有所缓解，但主要是保障一线人员，其他科室和后方仍然缺乏，“小医院更缺”。
He observed that on the afternoon of January 25, some major hospitals in Wuhan city were relieved, but mainly for frontline personnel, other departments and the rear were still lacking, and "smaller hospitals were even more scarce."
发出募捐信息第三天，武汉市一家医院负责捐赠的工作人员对《财经》记者透露，政府统一调拨和社会捐赠的物资陆续到达，但还是不够，病人在持续增加，“我们会让医护人员很节约地用”。
On the third day of sending out fund-raising messages, a staff member in charge of donation at a Wuhan hospital told Caijing that the unified allocation from the government and donations from the society were arriving, but they were still insufficient.
在与记者通话的十分钟里，这位负责捐赠的工作人员两次提醒有电话进来，“N95口罩特别紧缺，要不停地去筹（物资）”。
"The N95 mask is particularly in short supply and needs to be constantly restocked," the donor reminded reporters twice during a 10-minute telephone conversation.
她说自己凌晨一点才能休息，两三点有电话还要起来接，“跟一线比起来，我们好多了”。
She said that she could not rest until 1 a.m., two or three phone calls to pick up, "compared to the line, we are much better."
有些医生为了节省防护服，控制喝水，怕上厕所， 这样工作十多个小时，只用换一次防护服。
Some doctors, in order to save on protective clothing, control water, afraid to go to the toilet, so that work more than 10 hours, only change protective clothing once.
武汉一家三甲医院负责联系捐赠的人，电话24小时不断，可惜的是，“很多捐赠是民用的，不符合医用标准”。
Wuhan Sanjia Hospital is in charge of contacting donors, 24 hours a day, but unfortunately, "a lot of donations are civilian, do not meet medical standards."
在一个民间临时搭建的湖北医疗物资需求信息平台上，截至1月27日12时，来自医院的需求有103家。
As of 12: 00 on January 27, there were 103 requests from hospitals on a non-governmental temporary Hubei medical material demand information platform.
主要集中在武汉、黄冈、孝感，上至三甲综合医院，下到基层卫生院，都在求助。
Mainly concentrated in Wuhan, Huanggang, filial piety, up to Sanjia general hospital, down to the primary health care, are seeking help.
《财经》记者逐一致电武汉市各医院采购人，95%的电话一直忙线，或称急着接捐赠电话，匆匆挂掉。
"Caijing" the reporter called Wuhan City hospitals to buy, 95% of the telephone has been busy, or said that urgent to receive donor calls, hastily hung up.
位于黄冈市的刘河镇中心卫生院，已公布有4名门诊医护人员因发热被隔离。
The Liu He Town Central Health Center in Huanggang City has announced that four out-patient care workers have been quarantined for fever.
1月24日，刘河镇卫生院发布接受社会爱心捐赠的公告，向社会筹集医用的外科口罩、防护服、一次性乳胶手套、消杀器械，甚至医用帽子等物品。
On January 24, the Liu He Town Health Center issued a notice accepting the donation of social love. Surgical masks, protective clothing, disposable latex gloves, sterilization equipment and even medical caps were collected from the community.
负责该院捐赠的人士称，当地疫情防控指挥部每天调拨物资，派人送到医院，但是由于整体库存量不大，“医院需要每天申请”。
The hospital's donors said the local epidemic prevention and control command sent people to the hospital every day, but because the overall stock is small, "hospitals need to apply every day."
1月26日，在更基层的黄冈市堵城镇龙王村，一位村干部翻出许久不用的铜锣，在村中敲锣宣传疫情防控，因戴着口罩，要喊的足够大声。
On January 26, a village official turned out a long-unused gong in the lower-level town of Longwang, Huanggang City, to publicize the disease prevention and control in the village, wearing a mask and shouting loudly enough.
隔壁村村医能找到的口罩渠道全都没货，只能把一次性口罩用热水烫了将就使用，黄冈连日下雨，口罩干得很慢。
All the masks that the doctor could find in the next village were out of stock. They had to use the disposable mask in hot water. It rained on Wanggang for days and the mask was very slow.
镇里的卫生院也发布了接受社会捐赠的公告。
The town's health center has also issued a proclamation accepting social donations.
黄冈市23日24时起全面“封城”，紧张感开始蔓延。
Huanggang City from 2400 full "closure", tension began to spread.
当天，马像村卫生室收到通知，不仅是发热，连咳嗽的患者也一律不予诊治，劝告村民去县里定点医院就诊。
On the same day, Ma Xiangcun Health Office received notification, not only fever, even cough patients are not diagnosis and treatment, villagers are advised to go to the county designated hospital.
“没有防护，没办法接诊发热病人。
"No protection, no way to treat febrile patients.
”一位村医介绍，口罩紧缺早就出现了，“现在上面都开始呼吁捐赠，我们就也能公开求助了。
A village doctor said the shortage of face masks had been around for a long time. "Now that appeals for donations are up, we can go public too.
”“疾控中心每天会发一部分（物资），也只能维持一线科室防护。
"The CDC distributes a portion of [supplies] every day and can only maintain front-line department protection.
”荆州市公安县医院器械科的黄超，接听捐赠电话到凌晨一点多，“只是眼前够用”。
"Jingzhou City Public Security County Hospital, the armoury Huang Chao, answer the donor phone until 1: 00 a.m.," just enough for the moment. "
他忧虑，疫情何时是尽头。
He worried about the end of the epidemic.
除夕前夜，赶回工厂复产除夕前一天，回到湖南老家不久，戴建国接到赶工通知，立即驱车又返回深圳，从除夕早上7点开始连轴转。
On New Year's Eve, a day before returning to the factory to resume production, Dai Jianguo was notified of his arrival and immediately drove back to Shenzhen.
戴建国的工厂生产口罩等医疗用品。
Dai Jianguo's factory produces medical supplies such as masks.
1月23日，他收到深圳市市场监管局的订单，计划以政府采购的方式采购第一批口罩，一次性医用口罩400万个，医用外科口罩50万个，N95型30万个。
On January 23, he received an order from the Shenzhen Municipal Market Supervisory Authority to procure the first batch of masks, 4 million disposable medical masks, 500,000 medical surgical masks and 300,000 N95 masks by way of government procurement.
突发状况太多。
On too many occasions.
原材料、机器、人员等，都得他来协调，还要接听各种口罩求购信息，繁忙时，“一分钟能接到六七个电话，都来自医院”。
Raw materials, machinery, personnel, etc. have to be coordinated by him, and also to answer all kinds of masks for information, busy, "a minute can receive six or seven calls, all from the hospital.
戴建国对《财经》记者说。
Dai told Caijing.
珠三角经济区是口罩产能的主要集聚区，像戴建国这样接到紧急订单复产的不止一家。
The Pearl River Delta (PRD) region is a major reservoir of mask production capacity, with more than one such emergency order resurfacing, such as Dai Jianguo.
戴建国工厂赶出的口罩，由当地政府集中采购，统一调拨。
Dai Jianguo factory driven out of the mask, the local government centralized procurement, allocation.
工人吃住全在厂里，当地政府送来快餐。
The workers live and eat in the factory and the local government sends them fast food.
“我没什么时间吃饭，一分一秒都在争取最大限度产量”，有六七十个工人在生产线加班，很多是从老家被临时召集回厂的。
"I don't have much time to eat, I'm trying to produce as much as I can," and 60 or 70 workers work overtime on the production line, many of whom are temporarily summoned back from home.
他们从早上7点工作到晚上12点，每天一共能生产20多万个口罩，政府部门每天派专人专车取货。
They work from 7 a.m. to 12 p.m. They produce more than 200,000 masks a day, and the government sends someone to pick them up every day.
为抵御新型冠状病毒，建立了疫情联防联控工作机制。
In order to resist the new coronavirus, a joint epidemic prevention and control mechanism was established.
按该机制，工信部作为物资保障组牵头单位，做防控应急物资供应保障，建立重点企业临时生产调度机制。
According to this mechanism, the Ministry of Industry and Communications, as the lead unit of the material support group, ensures the supply of emergency materials for prevention and control.
戴建国企业所在的广东省工业和信息化厅建立起应急工作机制，摸查短缺的重要物资生产企业生产状态。
The Guangdong Department of Industry and Information Technology, where Dai Jianguo enterprises are located, has set up an emergency mechanism to check the production status of enterprises producing important materials in short supply.
1月23日，戴建国收到的其中一份紧急通知称，贵司顾全大局，迅速恢复生产，启动全部产能，生产的全部产品由坪山区集中采购，统一调拨，“请贵司克服一切困难”。
On January 23, Dai received one of the emergency notices, saying that your company takes the overall situation into consideration and quickly resumes production and starts full production capacity.
这份通知来自深圳坪山区新型肺炎疫情联防联控领导小组，由坪山区应急管理局代章。
This notice from the Shenzhen Ping Shan new pneumonia epidemic prevention and control group, by the Ping Shan Emergency Management Bureau on behalf of the chapter.
这份通知，字里行间弥漫着紧张气息。
The note was full of tension between the lines.
此时，武汉市开始发布社会捐赠公告。
At this time, Wuhan began to issue a social donation announcement.
据《财经》记者了解到，也是在1月23日和24日，中央紧急协调物资。
It was also on January 23 and 24 that the central emergency coordination materials, according to Caijing reporter.
口罩、防护服等的生产企业，成为政府和热心的民间捐赠者竞相联系的对象。
Mask, protective clothing and other production enterprises, the Government and the warm-hearted private donors to contact the target.
湖北某高校校友会的一名人士发现，“联系的国内符合标准的N95口罩基本都被政府收走了”，目前，各大电商平台均显示各类医用口罩无货。
An alumni association from a university in Hubei Province found that "most of the N-95 masks in the country were taken away by the government."
1月25日，工信部发布信息称，自1月23日接到联防联控机制转来武汉物资需求清单后，立即通过中央医药储备向武汉紧急调用了防护服1.4万件、医用手套11万双；通过协调紧急采购，为武汉落实各类口罩货源300万个，落实防护服货源10万件，落实护目镜2180副。
On January 25, the Ministry of Industry and Communications released information that 14,000 protective suits and 110,000 pairs of medical gloves had been urgently transferred to Wuhan through the central medical reserve immediately after receiving the list of Wuhan material requirements from the Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism on January 23.
“现有30多家企业复产。
"More than 30 enterprises have resumed production.
产量达到一天800万只以上”。
Production reached more than 8 million a day. "
运不进去，也怕出不来无论是政府调拨的货源，还是来自社会的爱心捐赠，物资生产和到达一线医护人员手上都需要时间。
It will take time for supplies to be produced and to reach front-line health workers, whether from government-allocated supplies or from charitable donations from society.
武汉1月23日10时封城，关闭出武汉通道，陡然加剧物资运送的难度。
Wuhan January 23 10: 00 closure of the city, the closure of Wuhan passageway, precipitously increased the difficulty of material delivery.
一些物流运输司机反馈，武汉封城之初，有一线人员执行很严，运送物资的车辆许进不许出，物流车担心出不去，很多车拉着物资停在外面不敢进，在途中的车不知道该怎么办。
Some logistics transport drivers feedback, Wuhan at the beginning of the sealing of the city, a very strict front-line personnel to transport goods into and out of vehicles, logistics vehicles are afraid to get out, many cars pull materials parked outside, do not dare to enter the way of cars do not know what to do.
“好在，武汉市政府及时调整执行层面的偏差，得让物流车先能进能出。
"Fortunately, Wuhan city government timely adjust the implementation of the level of deviation, the logistics car can first be able to come out.
”来自物流业的李晖告诉《财经》记者。
Li Hui from the logistics industry told Caijing.
封城的其他城市，也同样遇到物流运输问题。
Other cities that have closed their cities are also experiencing logistics transport problems.
李晖说，封城初期，各地对物流车进出的政策不统一，如果从武汉再去支援其他城市，两个地方都需要去一一对接。
Li said that the early closure of the city, logistics vehicles in and out of the policy is not unified, if from Wuhan to support other cities, both places need to go docking.
为减少麻烦，支援武汉的物流运输车，需要捐赠企业当地的县政府开路条，“比如，证明这个车是去武汉送口罩，请沿途相关地方给予放行，请予协助等”。
In order to reduce the trouble, support Wuhan logistics carriers, it is necessary to donate to the local county government to open the road, "for example, to prove that this car is to Wuhan to send masks, please along the relevant places to release, please assist.
为此，1月24日，湖北省公安厅下发紧急通知，运输应急物资及专业医护人员的车辆需协调入鄂通道，由省公安交通管理局统筹协调。
On January 24, the Public Security Bureau of Hubei Province issued an emergency notice that vehicles transporting emergency supplies and medical professionals should be coordinated into the Hubei corridor under the overall coordination of the provincial Public Security Administration.
各地要建立相应运输保障协调机制，确保物资及相关专业人员通行畅通。
All localities shall establish corresponding transport security coordination mechanisms to ensure the unimpeded passage of goods and related professionals.
运力还是紧张。
Capacity is still tight.
一批捐给定向接待医护人员的定点酒店的洗手液，至1月28日还停留在北京的一个仓库内，不知道何时能发货，“未必会安排，因为不是医疗物资，运力资源有限，优先保重点”。
A group of hand sanitizers donated to designated hotels catering to medical staff had remained in a warehouse in Beijing until January 28, and did not know when delivery would take place.
有物流业人士告诉《财经》记者。
Logistics industry sources told Caijing.
红十字会是武汉疫情防控指挥部指定的医疗物资的接受捐赠主体。
The Red Cross is the recipient of medical supplies designated by the Wuhan Outbreak Control Command.
武汉市红十字会将大宗物资储运交给了国药控股物流中心的仓库。
Wuhan Red Cross will be the bulk of material storage and transportation to the warehouse of the National Drug Holding Logistics Center.
一名工作人员说，起初货物批量小，从21号开始每天大批量的收货，“货物都是批量来的，不停运，凌晨三点到货也得立即卸货。
One staff member said that initially the goods were small in quantity and received in bulk daily from the 21st. "The goods are all in bulk and do not stop, and they have to be unloaded immediately upon arrival at three in the morning.
”口罩和防护服仍然最紧缺，“优先派送，基本每批当天到货就当天发走，由疫情防控指挥部直接调配安排”。
"Masks and protective clothing are still the most scarce," priority delivery, basic delivery on the same day on the delivery, by the disease control command directly deployment arrangements. "
1月28日，公安部强调要派出足够警力协助管控地区，开辟绿色通道，优先保障救护车辆、防疫车辆和运送医护人员、药品器械、民生物资等车辆通行。
On 28 January, the Ministry of Public Security stressed the need to send sufficient police personnel to assist in the control areas, create green corridors and give priority to ensuring the passage of ambulance vehicles, epidemic prevention vehicles and vehicles carrying medical personnel, medical equipment and civilian goods.
擅自设卡拦截、断路等行为，将依法处置。
Unauthorized card-blocking, road-breaking and other acts will be dealt with according to law.
这仅是启动医疗物资应急供应保障后，一些片段，全貌如何，还有待更多信息公布。
This is only the start of emergency supplies of medical supplies, some fragments, the full picture, yet to be published more information.
“既要避免浪费，又要避免在关键时用不上”随着疫情溢出武汉的，是医疗防护物资缺乏的逐渐蔓延。
"To avoid waste, but also to avoid the critical use of" With the outbreak spilled over Wuhan, is the gradual spread of medical defense supplies.
自大年初一起，北京、河南等地均有医院发布求助信息，没有病例爆发的地方也称物资紧张。
Since the beginning of the New Year, hospitals in Beijing, Henan and other places have issued help information, there is no outbreak of cases also known as material constraints.
大年初一上午，虽然陕西省山阳县尚无新型肺炎病例，作为县卫生健康局副局长，徐毓才没有休息，他去走访了县里唯一定点救治医院，从发热门诊的医务人员处得知，N95口罩储备不充足。
On the morning of the Lunar New Year, although there were no new cases of pneumonia in Shanyang County, Shaanxi Province, Xu Yucai, deputy director of the county health bureau, did not rest. He visited the county's only designated treatment hospital and learned from the medical staff at the fever clinic that the N95 mask stock was insufficient.
当地县政府给定点救治医院先期拨付150万元，由医院采购医疗防护物资和转运救护车，及病区移动医疗设备。
The local county government has allocated 1.5 million yuan in advance to designated treatment hospitals to procure medical protection materials and transfer ambulances, as well as mobile medical equipment in sick areas.
正值春节，“医院经常打交道的那些企业，也没有办法马上供过来，我刚才了解到，到正月初十左右，这些东西才能送来。
Spring Festival, "the hospital often deal with those enterprises, there is no way to supply immediately, I have just learned that the first month around 10, these things can be delivered.
”徐毓才对《财经》记者说。
"Xu Yuk-cai told Caijing.
一般情况下，医疗防护物资由医疗机构按照临床需要采购，维持正常的医疗问题不大，现在发生大面积的、非常严重的疫情，在应急状态下，作为防护物资，尤其是口罩，医疗机构和社会公众都需要，全国可能都比较紧张。
In general, medical protection materials are procured by medical institutions in accordance with clinical needs. Normal medical problems are not serious enough, and large-scale, very serious outbreaks are occurring. In emergency situations, there may be tension in the country as a protective material, especially masks, needed by medical institutions and the general public.
徐毓才分析，“这么严重的疫情，一般的医疗机构储备都难以应对。
Xu Yuk-cai's analysis, "such a serious epidemic, the general medical institutions are difficult to cope with reserves.
”这次，中央调用的医疗防护物资就是通过中央医药储备。
This time, the central government used medical protection supplies through the central medical reserve.
2003年“非典”之后，国务院发布《突发公共卫生事件应急条例》，对应急准备和应急处理等均有明确规定，国务院有关部门和县级以上地方政府及其有关部门，应当根据突发事件应急预案的要求，保证应急设备、救治药品等物资储备。
After SARS in 2003, the State Council promulgated the Regulations on Emergency Preparedness and Handling of Public Health Emergencies, which clearly stipulate that relevant departments of the State Council and local governments at or above the county level and their relevant departments shall, in accordance with the requirements of the emergency plan, guarantee the storage of emergency equipment, medical drugs and other materials.
一名不愿透露姓名的医疗行业人士称，虽然各级医疗机构都有应急预案，但未必都得到重视，而且储备未必适用。
A health-care professional who declined to be named said emergency plans were available at all levels, but they were not always taken seriously and reserves did not necessarily apply.
徐毓才所在的县成立防疫指挥部，办公室设在卫生健康局，下设几个小组，在有关的会议上，他提出医疗物资必须统一集中采购，按照需求管理，统一配发。
Xu Yucai's county set up the epidemic prevention command, the office is located in the Health Bureau, under several groups, at the relevant meetings, he proposed that medical supplies must be centralized procurement, demand management, distribution.
之前甲型流感病毒紧张时，有的医院储存“达菲”（抗病毒药物）过多，后来没有用就浪费了。
Previously when influenza A was tense, some hospitals stored "Tamiflu" (antiviral drugs) too much, and later no use to waste.
“既要避免浪费，又要避免在关键时用不上。
"Avoiding waste while avoiding the need for it when it is critical.
”徐毓才说，医疗防护物资紧张，就像战士上战场没有武器赤膊上阵，有点让人揪心。
Xu Yuk-cai said the tight medical supplies, like soldiers on the battlefield without weapons, a little worried.
一位湖北省医保局相关负责人告诉《财经》记者，目前放开医院采购药品、医用耗材，不受医保目录影响，即便有些产品不在医保目录，医保也会买单，医保报销不了的政府财政会兜底。
A Hubei Health Care Bureau official told Caijing that freeing hospitals to purchase medicines and medical consumables is not affected by the medical insurance catalog, even if some products are not in the medical insurance catalogue, medical insurance will pay for the products, and medical insurance will cover the cost of government finances that cannot be reimbursed by medical insurance.
“没有审批、没有价格的（产品）挂网就行了。
"Just hang up the net without approval or price.
我们不作任何限制，可以先用，用了以后再报价。
We can use it first and then make an offer later, without any restriction.
”上述湖北医保局人士告诉《财经》记者。
The Hubei Medical Bureau official told Caijing.
新型肺炎爆发是特别重大的突发公共卫生事件，这种强度和波及度，前期做预案的时候很难预判，不可能做最大评估，“出现短期物资储备或调度不够，这也是正常现象。
The new type of pneumonia outbreak is a major public health emergency. It is difficult to predict the intensity and extent of the outbreak, and it is impossible to make a maximum assessment when preparing the plan in advance.
”中国物流与采购联合会应急物流专业委员会的副秘书长范学兵对《财经》记者说。
Fan Xuebing, deputy secretary-general of the emergency logistics professional committee of the China Logistics and Purchasing Federation, told Caijing.
平时的医疗物资储备不够时，会动用应急储备，可应急储备的是什么、有多少，是按应急储备目录和规模走的。
When stocks of medical supplies are insufficient in normal times, emergency reserves are drawn upon. What and how much can be held in emergency reserves is determined by the emergency reserve catalogue and size.
如果这两者还不够，就会去抢蕴藏在市场和民众手中的社会储备，如果都抢这些资源，会加剧这种物资调度的不平衡。
If they are not enough, they will grab the social reserves that are in the hands of the market and the people, and if they are all looted, the imbalance in the distribution of these goods will be exacerbated.
应急生产和国际救援是常用应对策略。
Emergency production and international rescue are common coping strategies.
在2003年SARS爆发时，呼吸机不像现在这么普及，甚至有些三甲医院也没有。
When SARS broke out in 2003, respirators were not as popular as they are now, and even some triple-A hospitals were not.
24小时之内，发改委进行了国际采购，空运过来后直接配送到医院。
Within 24 hours, the NDRC conducted international procurement and delivered it directly to the hospital by air.
SARS之后，中国首先提出应急物流的概念，针对突发公共事件，是不断完善经验的过程，每次灾难后，会重视应急物流和管理，但是每一次面对的情况都有区别。
After SARS, China first put forward the concept of emergency logistics, in response to public emergencies, is a process of continuous improvement of experience, after each disaster, will pay attention to emergency logistics and management, but each time facing a different situation.
“关键在于怎么缩短过程，尽快步入正轨，统筹各方力量。
"The key is to shorten the process, get back on track as soon as possible and coordinate all forces.
这次最关键的是，我们能不能快速建立起合理高效的指挥调度体系，实现现有资源更有效的一个整合。
This time, the most important thing is whether we can quickly establish a reasonable and efficient command and control system to achieve a more effective integration of existing resources.
”范学兵认为，面对武汉疫情，要充分考虑物资保障的困难性，集中统筹资源，政府主导，社会参与，优化供给。
Fan believed that in the face of the Wuhan epidemic, it was necessary to take full account of the difficulty of material support, pool resources, lead by the government, participate in society and optimize supply.
一名民间捐赠人士在年初一那天，从浙江的企业订购400个KN95，当即付款4000元，准备捐赠给武汉的医院，1月26日厂家通知她退款，并告诉她口罩已被国家征用，她对《财经》记者说：“如果真是国家征用，那就希望能更好保障医院需求”。
A private donor ordered 400 KN95 from enterprises in Zhejiang Province on January 1 and immediately paid 4000 yuan for donation to a hospital in Wuhan. On January 26, the manufacturer informed her that the mask had been requisitioned by the state.
紧张的民间物资调配志愿者们随着募捐和捐赠涌现的是一批民间物资调配志愿者。
Nervous folk material deployment volunteers are a group of folk material deployment volunteers with fund-raising and donation.
1月26日晚，调配志愿者张平，吃着方便面，接受《财经》记者的电话采访，同时还不停地回复电脑屏幕上弹出的微信消息，“40小时没睡觉了”。
On the night of January 26, Zhang Ping, a volunteer, was given a telephone interview with Caijing, while responding to messages popping up on the computer screen, "40 hours without sleep."
他和几个本地朋友支援协调民间捐赠物资，他负责统计、审核医院需求。
He and a few local friends help coordinate the donation of civilian goods, he is responsible for statistics, review of hospital needs.
越来越多的医护人员找到他们，“我明明已经送过去三批货物了，为什么他们医院还有一线人员来找我，说没有口罩。
More and more paramedics came to them. "I've obviously sent three shipments, so why did the front-line staff at their hospital come to me and say there are no masks?"
”张平说，他因此拒绝了所有前来联系的医院领导、主任，一再强调，要直接发货到医护人员手上。
Zhang Ping said he had therefore rejected all hospital leaders and directors who had come in contact, repeatedly insisting that deliveries should be made directly to medical staff.
张平不支持指定捐赠，看每天的物资量和需要的医院数量，平均分配，“要知道周边地区小医院物资更紧缺”。
Zhang Ping does not support a specific donation, looking at the daily amount of supplies and the number of hospitals needed, evenly distributed, "you know the surrounding areas of the small hospital supplies more scarce."
刘伟是从深圳回湖北蕲春县过年，参与校友公益募捐后，了解到蕲春县一家公立医院防护物资紧缺，且需求很大，就开始用个人关系帮当地的医院调配物资。
The Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Agkistrodon in Shenzhen for the New Year. Having learned that there is a shortage of protective materials for the public hospital in Agkistrodon County and the need for them, he has started to use personal contacts to help the local hospitals.
假期过得比上班还忙。
The holiday was busier than work.
“一睁眼就是上千条未读信息”，一直到深夜，各类围绕物资的消息不断跳跃到他的手机上。
"One open eye is thousands of unread messages," until late at night, all kinds of material around the message continued to jump to his mobile phone.
刘伟每天新建的物资筹备对接群至少20个，多的时候有50个，对接的供货商10家以上，资金机构也有5家左右。
Liu Wei every day of the new material preparation and docking group of at least 20, more than 50, docking more than 10 suppliers, financial institutions about five.
供不应求的市场，让民间物资调配志愿者几乎时刻不能松懈。
Shortage of supply of the market, so that civilian material deployment volunteers almost always can not relax.
“在采购一次性医用手术服（不是防护服）时，报价2元，我提供不少医院文件证明我是帮医院直接买，才谈到1.8元一件，定5000件。
"When purchasing disposable medical surgical clothes (not protective clothing), I offered 2 yuan, and I provided many hospital documents to prove that I bought them directly for the hospital.
然而，不到3个小时，厂家告诉我没货了，几经追问才说是其他买方出更高的价买走了。
However, in less than three hours, the manufacturer told me that the goods were out of stock, and after much questioning, said that other buyers had paid a higher price for it.
”李海文说。
'he said.
罗丹单兵作战协调资源，遇到问题会在群里和其他认识的志愿者讨论。
Rodin individual combat coordination resources, encounter problems will be discussed in the group with other known volunteers.
“今天一上午都在‘打假’，我真是心力交瘁”。
"It was a hard morning," he said. "It was exhausting.
最近有一家称有近百万口罩库存的企业找到罗丹，希望帮忙对接医院资源，“我知道这个企业同时在线上募集资金，帮他们联系了一家医院，约定好初三发货，可是迟迟没有到货消息，厂家也拒绝直接发货物仓储和物流的信息，又给出缺原材料、缺人手等难处，我不知道不发货的真正原因是什么，对于我们这些志愿者来说，识别信息真伪真的是很头疼的一件事。
"I know the company raised money on the same time, helped them contact a hospital, arranged for delivery on the third day of the month, but the manufacturer refused to send the information directly to the warehouse and logistics. I don't know what the real reason is.
”其实找到罗丹的医院并不算多，每天多也就两家，量也不大，她把医院需求发到物资群里，通常很快就有回复。
In fact, there were not many hospitals in Rhodanthe, only two more a day, and the quantity was small.
“武汉疫区供需矛盾最突出的还是防护服，每天需求是10万件，产能每天只有1.3万件。
"The most striking contradiction between supply and demand in Wuhan city is protective clothing, with a daily demand of 100,000 pieces and a capacity of only 13,000 pieces per day.
”1月26日，在国新办举行的疫情联防联控工作新闻发布会上，工信部副部长王江平指出，正值春节放假时期，防控物资供需矛盾非常突出。
Wang Jiangping, vice minister of industry and communications, pointed out at a press conference on January 26 at the newly opened joint epidemic prevention and control office that the conflict between supply and demand of materials was acute during the Spring Festival holiday.
尽管八方援手，医疗物资的紧缺，依然困扰一些医护人员。
Despite the G8's help, shortages of medical supplies continue to plague some health-care workers.
（本文中张鸣、李晖、张平、罗丹为化名）捐赠信息 《财经》杂志整理了湖北17城部分医院需要的捐赠信息，他们大量需要口罩、防护衣和护目镜等医疗设备。
(Zhang Ming, Li Hui, Zhang Ping and Rodin in this article) donated information. Caijing magazine has sorted out the donation information needed by some hospitals in 17 cities in Hubei Province.
详见：【捐赠信息：湖北17城部分医院急需防护物资】“武汉肺炎”疫情系列报道▷ 点击图片查看责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
For more information: Some hospitals in 17 cities in Hubei Province are in urgent need of protective materials. The Wuhan Pneumonia series of reports Please see the photo below. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article by Caijing magazine.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉疫情升级，医疗物资募集七日实录。
Wuhan escalation of the disease, medical supplies collection for seven days.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉疫情升级，医疗物资募集七日实录";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "在这场抗击新病毒的战争中，一线医护人员不得不为自身防护揪心，他们和医院、捐赠人一起被迫卷入一场医疗物资的募捐";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '捐赠信息：湖北17城部分医院急需防护物资',。
Donation information: Some hospitals in Hubei 17 were in urgent need of protection & amp; apos; & aposs;.
subject_name: '财经杂志',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
title: '捐赠信息：湖北17城部分医院急需防护物资',。
Donation information: Some hospitals in Hubei 17 were in urgent need of protection & amp; apos; & aposs;.
subject_name: '财经杂志',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
