一罐奶粉的疫区漂流记。
A can of milk powder epidemic area drift.
邓拓。
Deng Tuo.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
2月22日，湖北黄冈封村封路的第14天。
February 22, Huanggang Huanggang Village closed the 14th day of the road.
面对镜头，一位母亲一边安抚着怀中的孩子，一边录制Vlog。
In front of the camera, a mother calms the child in her arms while recording Vlog.
孩子在母亲的怀中时不时的翻腾一下，似乎在找寻着什么。
From time to time the child rummaged in his mother's arms, as if searching for something.
“今天我们家孩子的奶粉已经喝完了。
"We're out of milk powder for our children today.
”这位来自湖北黄冈的Vlog博主，在其视频博客上分享了自己的遭遇。
The Vlog blogger from Huanggang, Huanggang, Hubei, shared his story on his video blog.
封村封路的状态下，外出采购的机会越来越少，随着生活物资的消耗，一些日用品变得稀缺起来。
Village closed the state of the road, less and less opportunities to go out to purchase, as the consumption of supplies, some daily necessities become scarce.
作为母亲，为孩子购置足够的奶粉成了当下亟待解决的问题。
As mothers, buying enough milk powder for their children has become an urgent problem.
这位母亲是幸运的，在村支书和母婴店的帮助下，当天得到了急需的奶粉，解决了眼下的燃眉之急。
Luckily, the mother, with the help of village branches and mother-and-child shops, received much-needed powdered milk that day, meeting immediate needs.
但在黄冈类似的情况并非孤例。
But a similar case in Huanggang is not alone.
雨雪中的武汉街头2月15日，武汉的天空飘起了雪花，为了疫情防控需要，大部分的商铺门店仍然没有恢复营业，部分网友也开始通过网络向媒体反映，目前武汉地区开始出现婴幼儿配方奶粉缺货断货的情况。
WUHAN, February 15 (Xinhua) -- Most shops are still not open for epidemic prevention and control, and some netizens began to tell the media via the Internet that there was a shortage of baby formula in Wuhan.
一些市民甚至担心，“奶粉会不会像口罩一样，变得一粉难求。
Some citizens are even worried that "milk powder will become as difficult as a mask."
”1短缺“近期有市民反映，婴幼儿配方奶粉不好买，一些超市也出现了婴幼儿配方奶粉缺货断货的现象。
Shortfall "There has been a recent public reaction that infant formula is hard to buy and that some supermarkets are also experiencing shortages of infant formula," he said.
”2月22日，湖北省新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情防控工作指挥部召开第30场新闻发布会，一位媒体记者提出了这样的问题。
On February 22, a media reporter raised the issue at the 30th press conference of the headquarters for the prevention and control of the new coronavirus pneumonia in Hubei province.
“婴幼儿奶粉是一个非常特殊的产品，虽然很小众，但非常重要，而且具有不可替代性。
"Infant milk powder is a very special product, although very small, but very important, and irreplaceable.
目前湖北省婴幼儿奶粉保有量是1600吨，可以满足全省婴幼儿饮用的时间是一个月以上。
At present, the amount of infant milk powder in Hubei Province is 1,600 tons, can meet the province's infant drinking time is more than one month.
”面对提问，湖北省商务厅厅长秦军坦言，“前一段时间，因为防疫的需求，各家母婴店都没有营业，所以导致了结构性的短缺。
"Faced with the questions, Qin Jun, director of the commerce department in Hubei Province, confessed that" the shortage of mother and child shops has resulted in a structural shortage because of the need for immunization some time ago.
”“黄冈属于这次疫情的重灾区，经销商储备的量，是能满足一个月的刚需。
"Huanggang is one of the hardest hit areas of the epidemic, and dealers are stocking up to meet just one month's needs.
”面对疫情期间的新情况，蕲春县大拇指母婴生活馆连锁总经理周航海表达了自己的担心，“由于封村封路，在配送等环节上感到非常吃力，加之物流尚不通畅，一些经销商的库存告急。
"In the face of the new circumstances during the outbreak, Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Life Hall chain manager Zhou Nautical expressed his concern that" due to the blockage of the village, the Agkistrodon Agkistrodon is struggling at distribution and other links.
”封城、物流停滞等问题，让身在邻省湖南的海普诺凯生物科技有限公司总经理刘育标，与他所带领的悠蓝品牌团队感同身受。
Sealing the city and stagnating logistics have left Liu Yubiao, managing director of Hebnock Biotech Ltd., in neighboring Hunan province, with his leisurely-branded team.
作为乳业从业者，他发现，为了配合疫区防控疫情的需要，母婴门店均处于歇业状态，“很多孩子在疫情期的口粮供应情况非常令人揪心。
As a dairy operator, he found that maternal and infant stores were shut down to meet the needs of epidemic prevention and control in epidemic areas.
”更为重要的是，疫区的一些特殊环境，造成了母婴之间的分离。
More importantly, the specific circumstances of the affected areas have resulted in the separation of mother and child.
一线的医务工作者、疫情确诊及留院观察患者，和身处隔离区内提供各种服务的妈妈们只能暂时与孩子相分离。
Front-line health workers, patients diagnosed with the disease and hospitalized, and mothers in isolation providing a variety of services can only be temporarily separated from their children.
尤其是有妈妈在分娩时感染病毒成为确诊病例，孩子出生也一同被确诊的消息传出，孝感米可贝贝/爱婴屋母婴连锁总经理程峰感叹，“小宝宝一出生就遇上了这样的灾难。
"The baby was born in such a disaster," said Cheng Feng, general manager of baby and baby chain Micheal Beibei / Baby Baby chain.
”在他看来，母亲感染之后，母乳不能供给孩子，宝宝也不能在母亲的怀抱，“在这种情况下的时候，小宝宝是没有安全感的。
"In his view, when a mother is infected, breast milk cannot be given to the child and the baby cannot be held by the mother.
”作为孩子的妈妈，长期关注母婴领域的微博博主袁菁介绍，“医院出于人道主义和现实的需要，往往会储备一定数量的婴幼儿配方奶粉以备不时之需。
Yuan Jing, a microblogger who has long focused on the maternal and infant sectors, said: "Hospitals tend to stock up on infant formula for emergencies because of humanitarian and practical needs.
”但由于疫情发展迅速，这样的储备在湖北地区变得捉襟见肘。
But with the epidemic developing rapidly, such reserves are stretched thin in Hubei province.
袁菁观察到，“客观上的条件不允许”，使得婴幼儿配方奶粉的作用更加明显，需求也更加突出。
Yuan Jing observed that "the objective conditions do not allow", so that infant formula more obvious role, the demand is more prominent.
“最小的确诊婴儿才出生30个小时，有不少母亲被确诊隔离的时候，孩子还在哺乳期。
"The youngest child is only 30 hours old and many mothers are diagnosed with isolation while the baby is breast-feeding.
”1月中旬，疫情发生后，刘育标时常关注着有关疫情的各类新闻报道。
In mid-January, after the outbreak, Liu often watched news reports of the epidemic.
很快，行业数据以及来自全国各地合作伙伴的信息，汇总到了悠蓝团队手中，十倍于平时的会员电话咨询，普遍都在询问供应相关的问题，更加印证了他的判断，“当前物资的匮乏还是很严重的。
Soon, industry data and information from partners across the country gathered in leisurely team hands, ten times more than usual phone calls from members, and questions about supply were commonly asked, confirming his judgment that "the current shortage of supplies is severe."
因为疫情来得非常突然，都没有提前预备，加上物流的管控等原因，宝宝的口粮受到很大影响，特别是疫区。
Due to the sudden onset of the outbreak, the lack of advance preparation, and logistical control, among other reasons, the baby's rations were greatly affected, particularly in affected areas.
”2行动悠蓝团队发现由于大量医疗资源向疫情防控工作倾斜，加之疫情防控需要，疫区普通民众无法顺利前往医院等医疗卫生机构，疫区医疗健康咨询与相关科普工作受到了较大影响。
The Action Blue team found that because of the tilt in medical resources toward disease control and the need for epidemic prevention and control, ordinary people in affected areas were unable to reach hospitals and other medical and health institutions.
尤其是其所处的婴幼儿健康领域，大众对于这方面的需求又往往较为急迫。
Especially in the field of infant and child health, the needs of the general public are often more urgent.
面对复杂而严峻的情况，悠蓝品牌结合企业自身优势，将目光聚焦到了两个方面。
Faced with the complex and severe situation, leisurely blue brand combines the advantages of the enterprise, focusing on two aspects.
一方面着手恢复企业节后复工运营，保障物资的供给；另外一方面聚焦疫情期宝宝的营养需求及科学防护问题。
On the one hand, resume operation after the enterprise holiday to ensure the supply of materials; on the other hand, focus on the nutritional needs and scientific protection of infants during the epidemic period.
其实早在2月初，悠蓝品牌便通过微博等自媒体，在线上开展了一系列疫情防护与婴幼儿营养相关的科普活动。
In fact, as early as early February, leisurely brand through micro-blogging and other media, online launched a series of epidemic prevention and infant nutrition-related science and technology activities.
邀请相关高校、一线儿科、营养科专家进行，并在此基础上建立起线上免费咨询平台。
Relevant universities, first-line paediatrics, nutrition experts were invited to carry out, and on the basis of the establishment of free online consultation platform.
“我们一直在线上免费提供着专家咨询服务，和专家的线上讲座科普，这是线上的举措。
"We've been providing expert consulting services online free of charge, and online lectures by experts on popular science, which is an online initiative.
”另一方面，在刘育标看来，物质上疫区最缺的就是两个东西，一个是医疗用品，一个是民生物资。
On the other hand, in Liu's view, the two things most lacking in a materially infected area are medical supplies and civilian goods.
疫情爆发以来，湖北省、武汉市政府在解决物资供应问题上出台了一系列的政策，而保障民生物资则成为备受外界关注的焦点。
Since the outbreak of the epidemic, the governments of Hubei and Wuhan have issued a series of policies to solve the problem of supply of materials.
在这样的指导思想下，商务、交通等有关部门纷纷为供应物资企业排忧解难，保障湖北民生需求的“生命线”。
Under the guidance of this, relevant departments such as commerce and transportation have been providing relief to supply material enterprises and guarantee the "lifeline" of people's livelihood in Hubei Province.
“保障供应”也成为悠蓝的首要目标。
"Guaranteed supply" has also become leisurely blue's primary goal.
“从2月7日开始，公司全面拿到了地方政府的配送通行证。
"Starting on February 7, the company got all the permits from the local government.
”因此，在完成线上支持的同时，悠蓝开始着眼于线下。
So, while completing online support, leisurely blue began to focus on offline.
“我们有全国接近两万个门店系统，联合了一万多家有配送能力，并且获得当地政府审批资格的终端合作伙伴，无接触送货上门。
"We have a nationwide network of nearly 20,000 stores, more than 10,000 end-of-pipe partners with distribution capacity and local government approval, and no access to the door.
”拿到通行证，在地方政府和交通主管部门的指导下，悠蓝在各地的经销商与合作伙伴便开始着手安排货物运送工作，这些措施在一定程度上缓解了新生婴幼儿口粮不足的问题。
"Getting the pass, Blue's dealers and partners around the country began arranging shipments under the direction of local government and transport authorities, which helped to alleviate some of the baby food shortage.
准备配送的运输车队作为荷兰进口的悠蓝有机婴幼儿配方奶粉，其原产地荷兰并未受到本次疫情的影响，因此生产等环节均运转正常，物资充裕。
The Netherlands, the country of origin of the transport convoy intended for distribution as a leisurely organic infant formula imported from the Netherlands, was not affected by the outbreak, so production and other links are functioning normally and with adequate supplies.
加上运输过程全程通过中欧快线，保证了从生产到运输，不受疫情影响，能够持续为国内用户供货。
Coupled with the whole transport process through the China-EU express line, from production to transport, not affected by the epidemic, can continue to supply domestic users.
“专车发送到每个城市的终端网点，也就是经销商、合作伙伴那里，他们在当地拿到特殊婴幼儿口粮的配送许可后，采取线上下单，线下集中配货，无接触式的配送方式。
"The cars are sent to the terminals of each city, that is, to the distributors and partners, who take a line-up and down-line centralized distribution and no-contact mode of distribution," he said.
”刘育标展示的照片显示，配送人员配合消费者，通过线绑着桶、小篮子等，将商品提上楼，也有将装着物资的塑料袋放到门口，然后退到安全距离后，等待消费者取走货物，确保了物资的供应。
Photographs of Liu showed distribution staff working with consumers to tie buckets and baskets with strings, carrying goods upstairs and plastic bags with their contents at the door, then retreating to a safe distance and waiting for consumers to take the goods.
行动开始后，悠蓝团队也开始意识到，如果想要贡献更多的力量，需要找到专业的人一起同行。
As the action began, the leisurely team began to realize that if it wanted to contribute more, it needed to find professional people to go with it.
就在悠蓝团队不眠不休商讨公益行动方案之际，持续援助一线的广东钟南山医学基金会的伙伴，也在为疫区一线医院防护物资以外的物资短缺问题感到忧心。
While the leisurely team continues to discuss pro bono initiatives, partners in Guangdong's Zhong Nan Shan Medical Foundation, a front-line medical foundation, are also worried about shortages outside the first-line hospital protection materials in the affected areas.
“除了防护物资以外，包括生理护垫、奶粉、方便面等物资，在医院都是有需求的。
"In addition to protective equipment, including physical pad, milk powder, instant noodles, and other materials, are in demand in hospitals.
”在“专业的人做专业的事”的思想指导下，悠蓝团队找到广东钟南山医学基金会，经过一系列交流与沟通，悠蓝联合澳优U基金、钟南山医学基金会、各地慈善总会、新浪新闻、新浪育儿等机构，发挥各自专长，共同开启了“悠蓝有机，有爱有生机”专业守护新生的公益活动。
Guided by the idea of "professional people doing professional things," the leisurely blue team found the Zhong Nan Shan Medical Foundation of Guangdong Province. Through a series of exchanges and communications, the Yushuangyou U Foundation, Zhong Nan Shan Medical Foundation, local charitable organizations, Sina News and Sina Childcare organizations have brought their respective expertise into play.
3送达“两万两千多罐，价值近一千万的悠蓝有机配方奶粉和一百二十四万的防护物资”，对于这次的公益行动，刘育标如数家珍，“宝宝口粮、口罩、消毒剂，总价值1100万。
"More than 22,000 cans of leisurely organic formula, worth nearly 10 million, and 1,240,000 protective materials were delivered," Liu said of the charity campaign, "Baby food rations, masks, disinfectants, worth a total of 11 million.
”这些物资在二月中旬开始，陆续送到一线医院，让医院根据实际需求定点输送。
The supplies began arriving at first-line hospitals in mid-February, allowing hospitals to target hospitals according to actual needs.
为了应对疫情需要，悠蓝从国内国外采购、调集一批防护物资，其中不乏高级别的防护用品。
In order to respond to the epidemic, leisurely procured and mobilized a batch of protective materials, including high-level protective supplies, from both domestic and foreign sources.
在面对自身团队防护用品仍然短缺的情况下，悠蓝团队却一致决定，将这批高级别的防护用品，优先给到一线的医护人员。
Faced with a continuing shortage of protective equipment for its own team, the team unanimously decided to give priority to front-line medical staff for these high-level protective items.
物资储备的逐渐充裕，但疫情防控体系下的湖北，交通运输仍是难题，最后一公里的物资送达，成为刘育标所在的悠蓝团队面临的最大挑战。
Material reserves are increasingly plentiful, but in Hubei, where the epidemic is under control, transportation remains a challenge, with the last kilometer of supplies arriving, making it the biggest challenge facing Liu's leisurely team.
动员更多的力量参与，成为“悠蓝有机，有爱有生机”公益项目的又一大目标。
Mobilize more forces to participate, become "leisurely and organically, love has vitality" public welfare project another big goal.
悠蓝团队将目光再次投向了遍布湖北的经销商及合作伙伴团队，发出倡议，希望更多的伙伴能够与悠蓝一道，“逆行而为，驰援湖北”。
Blue team to focus on dealers and partners across Hubei, issued an initiative, hope that more partners and leisurely blue, "retrograde and act to help Hubei."
作为悠蓝的合作伙伴，湖北爱心铭扬商贸有限公司总经理李小莉及其团队，选择在第一时间加入悠蓝的“逆行”大军。
As a leisurely blue partner, Hubei love Mingyang Trading Co. Ltd. general manager Li Xiaoli and his team, choose to join leisurely "retrograde" army in the first time.
“每天工作是14个小时到16个小时”，只为尽快将物资送抵一线。
"Work 14 to 16 hours a day," just to get supplies to the front line as quickly as possible.
由于疫情的原因，部分地区存在一些恐慌性囤积奶粉的情况，在李小莉看来是“奶粉很好的销售时期”，而悠蓝的选择是捐赠而非销售，这让她觉得“这是一家很大爱的一个企业。
Because of the outbreak, there was some panic hoarding of powdered milk in some parts of the country, which Li described as "a good time to sell milk powder," while leisurely chose to donate rather than sell, making her feel "a very loving business."
”在大爱的驱使下，李小莉及其团队将900听共计75件悠蓝婴幼儿配方奶粉，顺利的送达广水市第一人民医院。
Driven by love, Li and her team delivered a total of 900 melodious baby formula to the First People's Hospital in Guangzhou City.
李小莉并非个例，为了解决最棘手的最后一公里问题，更多的经销商和合作伙伴在第一时间加入到悠蓝的倡议之下。
Li Xiaoli is not alone in finding a solution to the toughest final kilometer problem, with more dealers and partners first joining the leisurely initiative.
合作伙伴——湖北十堰爱婴贝美在积极伸出援手疫情发生以来，各种信息不断影响着程峰，“悠蓝刚好在这个时候提出这种倡议，我愿意去配合悠蓝去做这个事情。
Co-operative - Hubei Shiyan love baby Bai Mei in the active support of the outbreak, various messages continue to affect Cheng Feng, "leisurely at this time this initiative, I would like to cooperate with leisurely to do this thing.
”在悠蓝的倡议下，孝感米可贝贝/爱婴屋母婴连锁总经理程峰及其团队开始着手准备。
Under the leisurely initiative, filial piety Micheal Beibei / baby-and-child chain general manager Cheng Feng and his team began preparations.
由于疫情影响，物流企业大量物资堆积，要想及时将货物送抵最需要的人手中，就需要自己去货仓里翻找，一遍又一遍的寻找与腾挪，汗水打湿了工作人员的衣服。
Because of the epidemic, logistics enterprises accumulated a large amount of materials, to timely delivery of goods to the people most in need, they need to go to the warehouse, over and over again to find and move, sweat wet staff clothing.
努力终究是有回报的，2月18日，900听共计75件悠蓝婴幼儿配方奶粉，经过程峰及其团队，先后送达孝感市中医院、孝感市第一人民医院。
Efforts eventually paid off, February 18, 900 listen to a total of 75 leisurely baby formula, through the process peak and its team, have been sent to Xiaogan City Hospital, Xiaoyan City, the first People's Hospital.
送达孝感市第一人民医院的物资作为老一批合作伙伴，面对疫情下产生的诸多难题，蕲春县大拇指母婴生活馆连锁总经理周航海对悠蓝这次的行动非常认可。
As an old group of partners, the General Manager of Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Thumb and Mother Living Hall chain Zhou Nautical acknowledges Yilu's action.
“克服了很多困难，能够把商品发到各个经销商的指定地点，还能配送到指定捐赠的医院，他们是付出很大的努力才能做到的。
"They overcame a lot of difficulties and were able to deliver the goods to the designated locations of the dealers and to the designated hospitals, which they did a lot of work.
”400听共计33件悠蓝婴幼儿配方奶粉送达蕲春县妇幼保健院。
The Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Agkistrodon infant formula has been sent to the Agkistrodon Maternal and Child Hospital.
收到捐赠奶粉的家长一罐罐奶粉换回了一次又一次的感谢，“当紧缺的奶粉送到新生儿的宝爸宝妈手中，他们眼睛里的忧愁变为喜悦的时候”，周航海觉得自己和无数伙伴的努力没有白费，再苦再累也都值得。
"When the scarce milk powder was sent to the precious mother and father of the newborn and the worries in their eyes turned into joy," Zhou felt that his efforts and those of countless companions had not been in vain and would have been worth it.
平日里，一罐奶粉可能是生活的必需品，但无关生命。
On weekdays, a can of milk powder may be a necessity of life, but not life.
疫情下，一罐奶粉却成为了疫区民众翘首以盼的紧俏物资，承载着大爱。
Under the epidemic situation, a can of milk powder has become the people of the affected areas eagerly looked forward to the tight materials, bearing great love.
当一罐奶粉克服了交通管制、人力不足等诸多问题，送抵疫区，换来的不仅仅是来自疫区医疗团队和婴幼儿家长的感谢，更是对于悠蓝这个雪中送炭品牌的认可。
When a can of milk powder overcome traffic control, manpower shortages and other problems, sent to the epidemic area, not only from the medical team and parents of infants and young children from the affected areas, but also for leisurely blue this brand of carbon delivery.
（应受访者需要袁菁为化名）（专题）。
(Respondents need Yuan Jing for pseudonym) (Project).
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一罐奶粉的疫区漂流记。
A can of milk powder epidemic area drift.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "一罐奶粉的疫区漂流记";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; with a can of milk powder.
var msg_desc = "冲锋陷阵的奶罐——疫区新生儿供给之难";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
