全国复工大作战： 抢人与控人，喧闹与萧条。
The National Resumption War: Robbery and Accusation, Noise and Depression.
刘诗洋。
Liu Shiyang.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲2月29日，在山东烟台火车站，务工人员准备乘坐复工专列。
Feb. 29, Shandong Yantai Railway Station, workers prepared to return to work train.
（新华社 唐克/图）全文共4462字，阅读大约需要7分钟。
The full text, 4,462 words, will take about seven minutes to read.
劳动力回流预示着大型企业正在复苏，许多省份都在上报他们规模以上工业的复工率已超过90%。
The return of labour bodes well for the recovery of large companies, with many provinces reporting a return to work rate of more than 90 per cent in industries above their size.
但在这些大工厂之外，经济复苏还是小心翼翼。
But beyond these big factories, the economic recovery has been cautious.
企业和地方政府的经济实力及意愿强烈程度决定了复工速度。
The economic strength and willingness of enterprises and local governments determine the speed of returning to work.
2月29日，布达拉宫宣布将与淘宝旅游合作，开展首次网络直播。
On February 29, Potala Palace announced that it would cooperate with Taobao Tourism and launch its first live webcast.
王鹏觉得这已经是没办法的办法，“如果直播能代替旅游，谁还出门花冤枉钱？”本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 刘诗洋责任编辑 | 顾策2月的最后一天上午，在山西晋城富士康，在此工作两年的郑宇从来没见过这样的阵仗——往常热闹的厂区大门空荡无人。
"If live TV can replace travel, who goes out to spend money in vain?" Wang Peng says, starting with Southern Weekend reporter Liu Shiyang's last morning in Shanxi's Jincheng Foxconn on the last morning of February, a battle Zheng had never seen before - the normally bustling factory gates empty.
为了方便已经复工的近万名富士康工人上班，交警对工厂周边道路实施了管控，有专车将他们从宿舍送到厂区。
In order to accommodate the nearly 10,000 Foxconn workers who have returned to work, traffic police have imposed controls on the roads around the factory, and special vehicles have been used to transport them from their dormitories to the plant.
半个月前，他从邻近的高平市返回时，晋城客运公司专门组织大巴负责接送，一分钱没花，还有交警开道。
When he returned half a month ago from the neighbouring city of Kauping, the Jincheng Passenger Company organized a bus service, which cost him nothing, and the traffic police opened the road.
这几乎是晋城富士康复工者们的共同经历。
This is almost the common experience of the Foxconn workers in Jincheng.
作为中国境内最大的代工厂商，富士康在中国有近百万员工。
As the largest subcontractor in China, Foxconn employs nearly one million people in China.
过去两周来，他们一直想尽办法提高复工率，在郑州和深圳工厂，除了安排车接车送之外，企业还通过调高工人到岗工作的奖励，来刺激人员回流。
For the past two weeks, they have been trying to increase the rate of return to work by offering incentives to workers to return to work, in addition to arranging pickups at factories in Zhengzhou and Shenzhen.
随着持续两个多月的疫情慢慢放缓，一场复工大作战正向全国铺开。
With the epidemic slowly slowing for more than two months, a major resumption of fighting is spreading across the country.
相对于可怕的疫情，经济下滑的代价同样令人难以承受。
The cost of the economic downturn is also unbearable compared to the terrible epidemic.
企业和地方政府的经济实力及意愿强烈程度决定了复工速度。
The economic strength and willingness of enterprises and local governments determine the speed of returning to work.
一位在义乌从事卫浴用品生产的老板用“抢人”来形容当地政府督促复工的态度。
A boss who makes toiletries in Yiwu uses the word "rob" to describe the attitude of the local government urging workers to return to work.
他告诉南方周末记者，过去一周，他几乎每天都能接到政府的电话，询问复工到岗有什么困难。
He told Southern Weekend that he had received telephone calls from the government almost every day in the past week asking about the difficulties of getting back to work.
有人接，也有人送。
Somebody's picking it up and sending it.
在劳务输出大省的河南，人力和社保部门宣布他们截至2月24日，已经有组织输送26.08万农民工外出返岗，由政府出面组织的专车专列就达到4630车次。
In Henan, a major labor-exporting province, the Ministry of Manpower and Social Security announced that as of February 24, 260,800 migrant workers had returned home in an organized way, with 4,630 special trains run by the government.
全国各地都在进行一场复工赛跑。
There is a race back to work all over the country.
劳动力回流预示着大型企业正在复苏，许多省份都在上报他们规模以上工业的复工率已超过90%。
The return of labour bodes well for the recovery of large companies, with many provinces reporting a return to work rate of more than 90 per cent in industries above their size.
但在这些大工厂之外，经济状况依然不容乐观。
But beyond these big factories, economic conditions remain grim.
2月27日，工信部副部长张克俭说，截至2月26日，全国中小企业复工复产率为32.8%。
On February 27, Vice Minister Zhang Kejian said that as of February 26, the national rate of return to work for small and medium-sized enterprises was 32.8 percent.
这个数字比三天前只提高了3.2个百分点。
That is only 3.2 percentage points higher than three days ago.
1经济大省疯狂“抢人”这场全国复工大作战，最早由人社部发令。
1 The economy big province crazily "robs the person" this national return to work big battle, first by the human society department orders.
2月19日，人社部等五部委印发通知，要求各地组织开展对用工集中地区和集中企业“点对点”的农民工专车（专列）运输服务，保障成规模、成批次外出的农民工安全有序返岗。
On February 19, the Ministry of Human Affairs and Social Affairs and other ministries issued a circular requesting local governments to organize special train (train) transportation services for migrant workers in concentrated areas and concentrated enterprises, so as to ensure the safe and orderly return of migrant workers to their jobs in batches.
在此之前，浙江早就打响了复工“抢人”第一枪。
Before this, Zhejiang early hit the resumption of work "rob" the first shot.
2月16日，杭州政府一次包下三列高铁，迎接来自贵州、河南、四川等地的上千名复工人员免费返杭。
On Feb. 16, Hangzhou government contracted three high-speed trains to greet thousands of returning workers from Guizhou, Henan and Sichuan to Hangzhou for free.
同日，嘉善县包机搭载的154名企业员工从四川返岗。
On the same day, 154 employees of enterprises on charter flights from Jiashan County returned from Sichuan.
义乌的“拉人行动”也是从那一天开始。
Yiwu's "pull people action" also began from that day.
自那以后，全国各地的“抢人”行动陆续开始。
Since then, "hijacking" operations have been taking place throughout the country.
福建、江苏、广东等地累计从云南、四川、甘肃、广西陆续接回数千名返工人员。
Thousands of reworkers have been brought back from Yunnan, Sichuan, Gansu and Guangxi in Fujian, Jiangsu and Guangdong provinces.
一些大型企业也加入其中，美的、格兰仕等制造业用工企业，都选择包机接员工返程。
A number of large enterprises also joined, such as the United States, Granz and other manufacturing industry enterprises, have chosen to charter aircraft to meet staff back.
轰轰烈烈的“抢人”行动，甚至拯救了受疫情影响严重的航空业。
Powerful "hijackings" have even saved the airline industry, which has been badly affected by the outbreak.
过去两周来，包括南航、东航、厦航在内的多家航空公司都推出了复工定制包机服务。
Over the past two weeks, a number of airlines, including South, East and Xiamen, have launched custom-built charter services.
东南沿海的经济大省是这次抢人行动的主力。
The southeastern coastal economic province is the main force behind the robbery.
为了尽快复工，各地还出台了吸引眼球的补贴政策。
In order to get back to work as soon as possible, various localities have introduced eye-catching subsidy policies.
在东莞，政府宣布人力机构每为东莞企业推荐一个就业就能获得700元补贴；在湖州，政府专门设立了不少于1亿元的企业复工奖金，企业组织外地员工返回的，费用由政府全额补贴，并给新招员工每人1000元的一次性生活补助。
In Dongguan, the government announced that manpower agencies will receive a subsidy of 700 yuan for each job recommended by Dongguan enterprises. In Huzhou, the government has set up not less than 100 million yuan of enterprise return bonuses.
五花八门的“抢人手段”，显示出经济大省迫切的用工需求。
The variety of "robbing means" shows the urgent need for jobs in large economic provinces.
但在劳务输出省份，严控疫情的政令，仍然高于一切。
But in the labor-exporting provinces, strict control of the epidemic decree, remains paramount.
晋城富士康员工郑宇告诉南方周末记者，他从离家到复工，总共交了三份健康承诺书，2月14日离家之前，他家周围一些村子仍然实施严格的出入管控，他的很多同事至今仍未成功返回。
Zheng Yu, a Foxconn employee in Jincheng, told Southern Weekend that he had handed in three health promises from his family until he returned to work, that some villages around his home remained under strict access control until 14 February, and that many of his colleagues had yet to return successfully.
如果不是领导此前多次问他返工时间，并帮他开具返工证明，那他现在应该还在家歇着。
If the leader had not asked him many times before for a rework certificate, he would still be at home now.
各地松紧不同的管控措施，是眼下复工的一大阻碍。
The loosening of controls is a major impediment to the resumption of work today.
河南的防疫措施之严曾传遍全网。
The strict epidemic prevention measures in Henan were spread all over the network.
河南直到2月21日才宣布取消高速路、乡村公路的交通管制措施，其中还不包括疫情较严重的郑州、信阳和南阳。
Henan did not announce the lifting of traffic control on highways and rural highways until Feb. 21, excluding Zhengzhou, Xinyang and Nanyang, where the epidemic is more serious.
在郑州富士康，第一批员工早于2月17日返程，但由于防疫规定，企业此前只能接受持本地户口的务工者返岗。
In Foxconn, Zhengzhou, the first workers returned as early as February 17, but because of vaccination regulations, companies could only accept workers holding local accounts to return to work.
以政府公布的统计数据来看，与劳动力密切相关的规模以上工业，已取得一定的复工成绩。
Judging by the statistics released by the government, industries above the size of the labor force have made some progress in returning to work.
2月24日，国家发改委秘书长丛亮说，全国规模以上工业复工率正逐步调高。
On February 24, Cong Liang, secretary-general of the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC), said the reactivation rate of industries above national scale was gradually increasing.
浙江已达到90%，江苏、山东、福建、辽宁、广东、广西也已超过70%。
Zhejiang has reached 90 percent, and Jiangsu, Shandong, Fujian, Liaoning, Guangdong and Guangxi have also exceeded 70 percent.
但经济发达省份的复工效率，仍受制于河南、四川、湖南等劳务输出大省的输出速率。
However, the efficiency of the developed provinces is still limited by the export rate of Henan, Sichuan, Hunan and other labor export provinces.
政府公开资料显示，河南每年外出务工的农民工最高时曾达2876万，主要流向东南沿海、北上广深等发达城市。
The highest number of migrant laborers in Henan was 28.76 million each year, mainly to developed cities such as the southeastern coast and northward, according to government open sources.
河南人社部门曾公布，截至2月24日，河南全省已有405.2万名农民工返回工作岗位，但这仅仅是春节前返回农民工总数的一半。
As of February 24, 4.052 million migrant workers had returned to work in Henan province, but that was only half the total number of migrant workers who had returned before the Spring Festival, the bureau said.
此外，各行业产能的恢复仍普遍落后于复工率。
In addition, the recovery of capacity in various sectors generally lags behind the rate of return to work.
煤电用量常被用来反映一般工业的产能情况。
The amount of coal used is often used to reflect the capacity of general industry.
来自交通银行金融研究中心监测的数据显示，2月中旬以来，六大发电集团日均发电耗煤量在40万吨左右，远低于往年春节之后的水平，和去年同期相比，降幅超过40%。
Data monitored by the Bank of Communications Financial Research Center show that since mid-February, the six major power generation groups have consumed an average of 400,000 tons of coal a day, well below the level after Spring Festival in previous years and down more than 40 per cent compared with the same period last year.
工业企业的延迟复工已给中国经济带来重大影响。
The delayed resumption of industrial activity has had a major impact on China's economy.
2月29日，国家统计局公布，中国制造业采购经理指数（PMI）为35.7%，比上月下降14.3个百分点。
On February 29, the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) reported that China's manufacturing purchasing managers index (PMI) was 35.7 percent, down 14.3 percent from the previous month.
PMI是监测经济运行的先行指标。
PMI is a leading indicator of economic performance.
此外，数量更庞大的中小企业仍处在危机边缘。
Moreover, a much larger number of SMEs are still on the brink of crisis.
北京大学和清华大学此前对近1000名企业主进行的一份问卷调查显示，有三分之一的小企业持有的现金只能维持四周的运行。
A survey of nearly 1,000 business owners by Peking University and Tsinghua University showed that one-third of small businesses hold cash for just four weeks.
另外三分之一的小企业，现金将在两个月后耗尽。
Another third of small businesses will run out of cash in two months.
2萧条的舌尖上的生意2月29日上午，北京朝阳区，青海人马保平决定打开锁了一个半月的餐馆大门。
On the morning of Feb. 29, Ma Baoping, a Qinghai native, decided to open the door to a restaurant locked for a month and a half in Beijing's Chaoyang district.
这位来自青海海东市化隆县的兰州拉面老板，刚刚度过人生中最焦虑的一个春节假期，因为注意到近期北京人流增多，他打算在3月1号赶快开张营业。
Lanzhou noodle boss from Hualong County in Qinghai has just passed one of his most anxious Spring Festival holidays and plans to open as soon as possible on March 1, noting the recent increase in traffic in Beijing.
作为受疫情影响最严重的行业之一，马保平赶快开张的决定，代表了这座城市万千小餐馆老板的心态。
Mr Ma's decision to open quickly, one of the worst affected industries, represents the mindset of the city's thousands of small restaurant owners.
民生智库与北京市餐饮协会近日公布的一项调查显示，全国累计有69.1%的企业在疫情期间全部暂停门店营业。
Minsheng think tank and Beijing Catering Association recently released a survey, a total of 69.1 percent of enterprises in the country during the epidemic all suspended shop operations.
其中，八成以上的咖啡馆，超过六成的酒吧、茶馆、外卖送餐、正餐、快餐、奶茶冷饮店、餐饮配送服务全部停业。
More than 80 per cent of cafes, more than 60 per cent of bars, teahouses, takeaway meals, main meals, fast food, tea and beverage outlets, catering and distribution services have all closed down.
2月26日，商务部服贸司司长冼国义表示，目前餐饮业的复工主要是以外卖方式。
On February 26, the Secretary for Trade and Industry of the Ministry of Commerce Xian Guoyi said that the catering industry is mainly reinstated take-out mode.
重点联系的20家大型连锁餐饮企业复工率达到57%，住宿业复工率达到50%以上。
The reactivation rate of the 20 major catering chains reached 57 per cent, and that of the accommodation industry reached more than 50 per cent.
但仅依靠外卖难以拯救萧条的餐饮业。
But take-out alone will not save the ailing restaurant industry.
早在2月初，西贝莜面村董事长贾国龙就曾公开表示，公司的钱只能维持3个月工资，即便靠外卖自救，每天的外卖额只能达到正常水平的10%。
As early as the beginning of February, Jia Guolong, president of Xibei naked oats village, said publicly that the company's money can only last three months, even if the take-out self-help, daily sales can reach only 10% of the normal level.
与工业企业有员工就能复产的情况不同，餐饮业需要人流来保证现金。
Unlike industrial enterprises, where employees are able to return to work, the catering industry needs a stream of people to ensure cash.
2019年全国餐饮业收入突破4.6万亿，春节期间营业收入约占年收入的15.5%。
In 2019, China's catering industry revenue exceeded 4.6 trillion yuan, with revenue accounting for 15.5 percent of annual revenue during the Spring Festival.
上述调查显示，今年春节以来，全国餐饮业累计受损超过6000亿元，约占2019年全行业总营收的12.8%。
According to the survey, the catering industry has suffered over 600 billion yuan in damages since the Spring Festival, accounting for 12.8 percent of the total revenue in 2019.
无数餐馆的关张，意味着无数餐饮行业员工失去了工作。
The closure of countless restaurants means that countless restaurant workers have lost their jobs.
隔离让更多人选择居家做饭，这又间接刺激了超市、配送行业的巨大工作量。
Segregation allows more people to cook at home, which in turn indirectly stimulates the huge workload of the supermarket and distribution industry.
二者之间的此消彼长，促成了疫情期间服务业的一次特殊员工流动。
The trade-off between the two contributed to a special movement of workers in the service industry during the epidemic.
自2月以来，物美、阿里盒马生鲜、京东、大润发等生鲜超市配送企业，都启动了临时用工计划，鼓励并吸引因疫情影响无法按时开工的本地餐饮、酒店业从业者加入，从事分拣、配送等工作，并在不影响其原本劳动合同的基础上，与员工签署临时务工合同。
Since February, the distribution enterprises of Wumei, Ali Boxer Ma Shengxian, Jingdong, Dafa and other fresh supermarkets have launched temporary employment plans to encourage and attract local catering and hotel operators who are unable to start work on time due to the epidemic, engage in sorting and distribution work and sign temporary employment contracts with their employees without affecting their original labour contracts.
劳动力就这样在疫情之下悄悄转移。
In this way, labor moved quietly under the epidemic.
盒马生鲜方面向南方周末记者提供的数据显示，自2月以来，盒马已与云海肴、青年餐厅、西贝、望湘园、57度湘等30多家餐饮企业合作，转移约2000名员工临时加入盒马。
Since February, Boxer has cooperated with more than 30 catering enterprises, including Yun Hai, Youth Restaurant, Xibei, Wangxiang Garden, 57 Xiang Xiang, etc., and transferred about 2,000 employees to join the box horse temporarily since February.
自三年前来北京开起这间面馆，马保平的兰州拉面馆每天平均能卖出500碗拉面。
Since Beijing opened the noodle shop three years ago, Baoping's Lanzhou noodles shop has sold an average of 500 bowls of ramen a day.
但因为疫情，他只能和同村出来的四个伙计商量，管吃管住，但工资要延后两个月。
But because of the outbreak, he had to discuss it with four of his fellow villagers and stay with him, but his salary was delayed by two months.
与沙县小吃、桂林米粉一样，青海海东化隆县的拉面老板们，是城市里的务工者们最主要的餐饮服务者。
With Shaxian snacks, Guilin rice powder, Qinghai Hainan Province, the ramen noodle owners, urban workers are the main catering services.
拉面经济是海东市的“脱贫经济”，海东拉面店遍布全国22个省、5个自治区和4个直辖市，以及11个国家，达到1.7万家，年实现拉面收入130余亿元。
The economy of ramen noodles is the "anti-poverty economy" of Haidong city, with more than 13,000 yuan of ramen noodles sold in 22 provinces, 5 autonomous regions and 4 municipalities directly under the Central Government, as well as 11 countries.
据海东市政府官方数据，海东市目前已累计有1000余名拉面从业人员在北京、上海、江苏、广东等全国19个省份复工复产。
More than 1,000 people have resumed work in 19 provinces, including Beijing, Shanghai, Jiangsu and Guangdong, according to official figures from the Haidong municipal government.
但马保平告诉南方周末记者，他现在很忐忑，感觉开门也是赔钱，但不开又不甘心。
But Ma told Southern Weekend reporter, he is now very perturbed, feeling that the door is also losing money, but not open and unwilling.
为来北京开店，他之前借了许多债，如果算上店租、采买、水电等经营成本，即便不给员工开工资，自己手里的现钱，顶多再撑3个月。
He borrowed a lot of money to open a store in Beijing, and if he included the cost of running a business such as renting, buying, drinking water and electricity, he kept his cash for up to three months, even if he didn't pay his employees.
3人的流动是最关键因素在疫情肆虐之下，有的行业还能等待复工，有的行业却已走到危险的边缘。
The movement of three people is the most critical factor in the epidemic, with some industries still waiting to get back to work and others on the verge of danger.
2月29日，百程旅行网宣布关闭公司并进行清算。
On 29 February, Centrafrican announced the closure and liquidation of the company.
该公司创始人兼CEO曾松在接受《经济观察报》采访时称，目前公司债务过高，在疫情影响下，旅游消费需求几乎为零，公司已无法支撑。
In an interview with the Economic Observer, Zeng Song, founder and CEO of the company, said the company's debt was now too high and tourism consumption demand was almost non-existent because of the epidemic.
百程曾是国内最大的线上签证服务机构之一。
PepsiCo used to be one of the largest online visa service providers in the country.
曾松是中国出境游大型批发商华远国旅的创始人。
Zeng Song is the founder of Huayuan International Travel, a large Chinese outbound wholesaler.
百程自2011年从华远国旅拆分，主要从事在线签证办理业务和旅游度假服务。
The company was split from Huayuan Travel in 2011 and is mainly engaged in online visa processing business and tourism holiday services.
尽管百程的危机与近年来公司连续亏损有关，但在旅游行业从业者王鹏看来，百程的遭遇正反映出整个行业的艰难处境。
While PepsiCo's woes have been linked to successive losses in recent years, PepsiCo's experience is a reflection of the industry's woes, according to travel industry practitioner Wang Peng.
王鹏自2013年进入旅游行业，先后在国旅、中青旅等大型旅游公司负责出境游业务。
Wang Peng has entered the tourism industry since 2013 and has been responsible for outbound travel business in China Travel, China Youth Travel and other large tourism companies.
他告诉南方周末记者，过去每年春节都是最忙的时候，出境游近年来在国内的需求大幅增长，他所在的公司每到春节最少都能承接上千笔订单。
'The Spring Festival used to be the busiest, 'he told Southern Weekend.' There has been a surge in domestic demand for outbound travel in recent years, and his company can take on at least a thousand orders for the Spring Festival.
可眼下的情形让王鹏感到绝望，他对复工没有期望，最近一直在琢磨换一个行业。
But the current situation makes Wang Peng despair, he did not expect to return to work, has recently been thinking of a new industry.
“即便中国的疫情结束了，其他国家同样有疫情，出入境都不会很快放开，我担心今年就这样完了。
"Even if the epidemic in China is over and other countries have the same epidemic, we won't be able to get out of here any time soon," he said.
”王鹏自1月底以来就没有再工作，公司起初还发通知复工，后来干脆几周没消息了。
Peng Wang has not worked since late January and was initially notified to resume work, only to be left without news for several weeks.
几天前，公司人事打电话通知他，2月份只会发放30%的薪酬。
A few days ago, the company's personnel called to inform him that only 30% of his salary would be paid in February.
他预感到，复工第一件事就是裁员。
The first thing he knew about returning to work was to lay off workers.
眼下，和旅游公司同样急迫的还有中国的各大景点。
At the moment, along with travel agencies, there are major attractions in China.
2月29日，布达拉宫宣布将与淘宝旅游合作，开展首次网络直播。
On February 29, Potala Palace announced that it would cooperate with Taobao Tourism and launch its first live webcast.
王鹏觉得这已经是没办法的办法，“如果直播能代替旅游，谁还出门花冤枉钱？”与旅游业的复工完全被中断类似，各大院线也正度过最难受的时刻。
Wang Peng felt that this is no way out, "if the live broadcast can replace the tour, who went out to spend money?" Similar to the tourism industry has been completely interrupted, the lines are also going through the most difficult times.
万达影城、博纳国际影城、金逸影城、大地影院等院线，目前正通过线上渠道开设卖品店，主要业务是售卖影城小卖部存留的零食和罐装饮料。
Wanda Cinema, Bona International Cinema City, Jinyi Film City, Earth Cinema, and so on, are currently operating through online channels, mainly selling snacks and canned drinks kept at the Shopping Mall.
为了尽可能回笼一点资金，一些影院还开始销售电影套票，19.9元一张的兑换券，使用期限可以一直到6月30日或12月30日。
To make the most of the money, some cinemas are selling sets of tickets, a $19.9 cashier's certificate, which can run until June 30 or December 30.
2月26日北京宣布，院线初步复工，必须隔排隔座售票。
Feb. 26, Beijing announced that the preliminary resumption of yard line, must alternate seats sold.
一家连锁院线的投资人告诉南方周末记者，这条复工指示相当于告诉你不要开门营业。
A chain of investors told Southern Weekend that the reinstatement order was tantamount to telling you not to open your doors.
因为很少有人会这样买票看电影，更别提在眼下这个时间铤而走险。
Because few people would buy a ticket like this, let alone make a desperate attempt at the moment.
公开数据显示，截至2019年，全国影院数量为12408家。
Open figures show that the number of cinemas in the country as of 2019 was 12,408.
眼下，他们的复工仍遥遥无期。
At the moment, their return to work is far from complete.
国家统计局最新数据显示，2月，中国非制造业商务活动指数录得29.6%，比上月回落24.5个百分点。
The latest figures from the National Bureau of Statistics show that China's non-manufacturing business activity index recorded 29.6 per cent in February, down 24.5 percentage points from the previous month.
其中，服务业商务活动指数为30.1%，比上月回落23.0个百分点。
The index of business activity in the service sector was 30.1 per cent, down 23.0 percentage points from the previous month.
在行业分类中，仅有货币金融服务、资本市场服务商务活动指数保持在扩张区间。
In the industry classification, only the monetary financial services, capital market services business activities index remained in the expansion range.
疫情之下，如何管控人的流动，是恢复经济过程中最难平衡的一点。
Managing the movement of people in the face of the epidemic is one of the most difficult aspects of economic recovery.
汇生国际融资总裁黄立冲告诉南方周末记者，因为香港施行封关，人无法流动导致企业没法路演，一季度许多拟到香港进行IPO的企业都在考虑放弃，他估计，如果疫情持续下去，2020年港交所的IPO数量将因此减少40%。
Huang Lichong, president of Huisheng International Finance, told Southern Weekend that companies could not perform because of Hong Kong's closures and lack of mobility. Many would-be IPO makers in Hong Kong in the first quarter were considering quitting, which he estimated would reduce IPO volumes by 40 per cent by 2020 if the epidemic continues.
人的流动是决定经济复苏的最关键因素，但眼下还需要时间。
Human mobility is the most critical determinant of economic recovery, but it will take time.
在一家机构对热点城市商业中心人流统计中，目前北京、上海、广州、深圳商业办公中心的人流恢复度都在50%以下。
In an agency's statistics on the flow of people in the commercial centers of hot cities, people in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Shenzhen now have a recovery rate below 50 per cent.
戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
Click the image below to continue reading the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
全国复工大作战： 抢人与控人，喧闹与萧条。
The National Resumption War: Robbery and Accusation, Noise and Depression.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "全国复工大作战： 抢人与控人，喧闹与萧条";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
