一位武汉青年和100万只N95里的“妖魔鬼怪”。
An Wuhan youth and a million N95 "demons".
浦君。
Pu Jun.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲疫情期间，他多次骑着摩托车去汉口北仓库拿货（受访者供图）全文共4291字，阅读大约需要7分钟。
During the outbreak, he rode his motorcycle to Hankou North Warehouse to pick up the full text of 4,291 words, about seven minutes reading.
一位武汉的浦姓青年，向南方周末记者讲述了自己在疫情期间和近100万只口罩的故事，但他本人无意进入公众视野，不愿具名。
An Wuhan-based young man surnamed Pu told Southern Weekend the story of himself and nearly a million masks during the outbreak, but he did not want to go into the public eye and remain anonymous.
疫情中，他拿到了近100万只N95口罩，按“天价口罩”的行情，原本可以赚到一套江景房。
In the outbreak, he got nearly a million N95 masks, according to the "sky-high price mask" market, could have earned a set of Jiangjing room.
但他最终还倒贴了至少十万元。
But he ended up posting at least $100, 000.
在这个有关口罩的故事里，他遇到了形形色色的人，邻居、中介、医生、社区干部和骗子，感受到贪婪与善意。
In this story about masks, he meets people of all stripes, neighbors, intermediaries, doctors, community cadres and liars, feeling greed and goodwill.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载口述 | 浦君采访整理 | 南方周末记者 敬奕步南方周末实习生 龚柔善责任编辑 | 张玥我今年31岁，金牛座男生。
This article began at Southern Weekend without authorization to reproduce oral & # 160; # 124; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
我是学艺术的，从事过金融行业，干过国企，现在武汉管理一家建筑公司。
I am a student of art, engaged in the financial industry, have done state-owned enterprises, now Wuhan management of a construction company.
疫情期间，我做了一件疯狂的事。
During the outbreak, I did a crazy thing.
这得从我嫂子说起。
It starts with my sister-in-law.
年前，听说武汉有疫情，嫂子给了我10只N95口罩,要我出门戴着。
Some years ago, when I heard that Wuhan had an epidemic, my sister-in-law gave me 10 N95 masks and asked me to wear them outside.
嫂子家经营着湖北省最大的口罩厂之一，主要生产工业用N95口罩，曾参与过2015年天津滨海新区大爆炸的救援。
My sister-in-law runs one of Hubei province's largest mask factories, producing N95 face masks for industrial use. She was involved in rescuing the explosion in Tianjin Binhai New Area in 2015.
虽说是工业用口罩，但和医用N95只差一个医疗许可证，实际效果相差无几。
Although it is an industrial mask, and the medical N95 is only one medical license, the actual effect is not much different.
2020年1月20日，口罩已经小幅涨价，1.5元/只涨到2元/只。
On January 20, 2020, the price of masks has risen slightly to $1.50 per mask per day to $2 per mask.
我从嫂子那儿提了几十箱N95分给朋友们。
I took dozens of cases of N95 from my sister-in-law.
第二天听说各大医院开始买口罩，我意识到疫情可能有点严重。
The next day I heard that major hospitals were beginning to buy masks. I realized that the outbreak might be a bit serious.
当时，嫂子的口罩厂马上要停工放假，我让她把所有库存卖给我，又联系了经销商,陆续从多方拿货，每次打款都是六位数起。
At the time, my sister-in-law's mask factory was closing down for the holidays. I asked her to sell all her stock to me, contacted the dealer and picked it up from multiple sources, each time in six digits.
就这样七拼八凑，整个疫情期间，我凑出了将近100万只N95口罩。
In this haphazard fashion, I managed to scrape together nearly a million N95 masks throughout the epidemic.
在卖口罩之前，我本以为我会发财，就算每只口罩只赚一元钱，也能赚100万。
Before I sold the mask, I thought I would make a fortune. I would make a million dollars for every mask I made.
但实际发生的事情，彻底偏离了预期轨道。
But what happened on the ground is completely off track.
1 “你知道外面是什么价格吗？”1月20日晚，官方声明新冠病毒有人传人的风险。
"Do you know what the price is outside?" On the night of Jan. 20, officials announced the risk of a human-to-human transmission of the new crown virus.
当时，我已经在小区卖了三天口罩。
At the time, I had been selling masks in the community for three days.
想来是有些后怕的。
I think it's a little scary.
我们小区不到两千户，住着不少同学和朋友。
Our community is less than two thousand families, living a lot of students and friends.
我是业主群群主，平时也是活跃分子，物业给我提供了一块卖口罩的专用场地。
I am the owner of a group of owners, usually active, property to me to sell a special site for masks.
从1月18日起，我每天拉一车口罩到小区，一直卖到23日。
From January 18, I pull a load of masks to the community every day, until 23 days.
最先来买口罩的是小区业主，后来名气传开了，各种各样的人都来了。
The first person to buy the mask was the owner of the small district. Then the fame spread and all kinds of people came.
他们在小区门口提前排队，等五六个小时也是常事。
They line up early at the community gate, waiting five or six hours is also the norm.
再后来，很多人打我电话买口罩。
Later, many people called me to buy masks.
刚卖时，常有顾客问“能不能单个买”，但为了方便销售，我是按箱卖，一箱口罩400-600只不等。
When I first sell, customers often ask "Can I buy them individually," but to facilitate sales, I sell them by the box, a box of 400-600 masks.
当时很多人不愿意买这么多。
Many people were reluctant to buy so much.
后来，顾客的问题变成“能不能买十箱”，我拉货的车也从小货车变成了7米长、3米高的大货车，载货量从几十箱变成几百箱。
Later, the customer's question turned into "Can I buy ten cases," and my truck turned into a 7-meter-long, three-meter-high truck with a load of several hundred cases instead of dozens.
从厂家发货的口罩，物流常延误两三个小时。
Shipments of masks from manufacturers are often delayed by two or three hours.
不管到货多晚，排队的人只会等更晚。
No matter how late they arrive, queues will wait even later.
每天的口罩几乎都能售罄。
Almost all of our masks are sold out every day.
刚开始，我每天有一二十万只口罩到货。
At first, I had 10, 200, 000 masks delivered every day.
后来，口罩全靠抢，各路经销商虎视眈眈。
Later, all the masks rely on the gun, dealers eye covetously.
有一天，我去汉口北开仓，听说很多人不愿放货，想等开工潮再赚一笔。
One day, I went to Hankou to open a warehouse, I heard that many people do not want to release goods, want to wait until the start of the boom to make a profit.
还有一次，我和经销商前一天谈好价格，因为没有付款，第二天每只口罩就提价两元。
On another occasion, my dealer and I negotiated a price the day before, and each one went up $2 the next day because we didn't pay.
后期，加微信买口罩的人越来越多，不管他们认不认识我，直接就给我打钱。
Later, more and more people buy masks, whether they know me or not, give me money directly.
打了钱也不一定能拿到货，如果没货，我就当场退钱。
Money is not always available, if not, I returned the money on the spot.
随着客流越来越大，我开始限购——每人只能买1-2箱，也不得不找朋友来帮忙搬货、组织排队、维持秩序。
As the flow of passengers grew, I began to limit my purchases -- one or two boxes each -- and I had to find friends to help with the groceries, organize queues and maintain order.
我送他们一些口罩以示感谢。
I gave them some masks as a token of gratitude.
口罩的进货价不断上涨，我的售价也随之调高，但利润始终很低。
As the purchase price of the mask continued to rise, so did my price, but profits remained low.
刚开始卖的量少，加上小区多是熟人，我几乎是按进货价卖给他们。
Small initial sales, coupled with the fact that the community is mostly acquaintances, I almost sold them at the purchase price.
一箱400个口罩，我卖560元/箱，单价1.4元，售价就是进货价。
A case of 400 masks. I'll sell it for 560 yuan per case. The unit price is 1.4 yuan.
进货价2元/只时，我卖2.2元/只；进货价3元/只时，我原价卖过，也卖过3.5元/只；进货价4元/只时，我也原价卖过；进货价涨到5.5元/只时，我卖6元/只，这是我卖过的最高价。
When the purchase price was $2 / item, I sold $2.2 / item; when the purchase price was $3 / item, I also sold $3.5 / item; when the purchase price was $4 / item, I also sold the original price.
有顾客在我朋友圈留言：“你是我见过最便宜、最良心的口罩商”。
"You're the cheapest and most conscientious mask manufacturer I've ever seen," a customer wrote in my circle of friends.
实话说，我只有一部分口罩赚钱，另一部分纯属做好事。
To tell you the truth, I only have some masks to make money, and part of it is purely for good.
赚钱是为了不亏本。
Money is made to keep from losing money.
物流、搬运和人工，这些成本是每天一两万。
The cost of logistics, handling, and labor is ten to twenty thousand a day.
与此同时，市面上在卖天价口罩。
Meanwhile, sky-high masks are being sold.
很多朋友跑来问我，“你知道外面是什么价格吗？”我知道，在药店一只N95能卖到55元。
A lot of friends came to me and asked, "Do you know what the price is out there?" I know. I can get 55 yuan for an N95 at the drugstore.
市场疯了，一只口罩卖那么贵，我始终下不了手。
The market is crazy. A mask is so expensive that I can't get out.
这是人干的事情吗？卖口罩那几天，货一般晚上到，卸货得一两个小时。
Is that what people do? The days of selling masks, the goods usually arrive in the evening and it takes an hour or two to unload.
每天凌晨三四点钟，我才回到家。
I never get home until three or four in the morning.
有一夜，武汉下冰雹。
One night, the hailstones in Wuhan.
晚上十一点，来帮忙的朋友都走了，剩我和一个哥们守着货。
At eleven o'clock in the evening, the friends who came to help left me with a friend to watch over the goods.
夜寒入骨，我们说话时吐着白气，跟蒸汽机似的。
The night was bitterly cold, and we spoke with white breath, like a steam engine.
结果他那夜冻病了，在家躺了三天。
He fell ill that night and lay at home for three days.
我愧疚得不行，这时候生病非常危险。
I'm sorry. It's dangerous to get sick at this time.
1月23日是我卖口罩的最后一天，现场只剩下我一个人忙活。
January 23 was my last day of selling masks, and I was left alone.
即使有偿帮忙，也没人陪我玩命了。
Even if paid to help, no one to accompany me to play with life.
当时说，病毒可以通过眼结膜传播。
At the time, the virus could spread through the conjunctiva.
而我们只有口罩，没有护目镜、防护服。
We only have masks, no goggles, no protective clothing.
那一天，我一个人守着货车，顾客挨个出示微信付款截图，就能把口罩搬走。
The other day, I was alone in the van, and customers were able to remove the masks by showing micromail screenshots.
2疫情就是照妖镜疫情就是照妖镜，卖口罩时，我见识了各种“妖魔鬼怪”。
2 Epidemic disease is like a goggle mirror, selling masks, I saw a variety of "demons."
一个陌生女人来找我，让我卖给她200箱口罩，说是一线的医生没有口罩，她说要把200箱全部分散处理给医生。
A strange woman came to me and asked me to sell her 200 boxes of masks, saying that the front-line doctor did not have a mask.
我被她的故事打动了，一松口，她马上给我打了几十万货款。
I was moved by her story, a release, she immediately gave me hundreds of thousands of dollars.
说来奇怪，她出手大方，也不怕我是骗子。
Strange to say, she was generous and not afraid that I was a liar.
可能是因为那段时间，我的信誉太好了。
Probably because of that time, my credibility was excellent.
当晚200箱口罩交货的时候，我同学甩了一个视频过来，“这不就是你的货吗？她卖十几块钱一只。
During the delivery of the 200-case mask that night, my classmate flicked a video and said, "Isn't this your product? She sold it for a dozen bucks."
”我瞬间就炸毛了，原来她在微信群里倒卖我的口罩。
I blew my hair in an instant, and she was selling my mask in a small crowd.
才交完货，她已经忍不住躁动了！一分钟都不等，用几倍价格来倒卖，还一次性拿走200箱。
By the time the goods were delivered, she had become restless, ranging from a minute's worth of resale to a few times, to a lump-sum removal of 200 cases.
你说我心里疼不疼？这个女人始终没有露面，我也不知道她是谁。
You say my heart aches? The woman never shows up, and I don't know who she is.
还有一次，一位发小的亲戚觊觎我的货，派他来磨我，从早上一直软磨硬泡到晚上。
Another time, a small-haired relative coveted my goods, sent him to grind me, from the morning until night.
我本不想大批量出货，偏偏那天手头现金不够，没钱给人发工资。
I didn't want to ship in bulk, but I didn't have enough cash on hand to pay people.
他马上给我打了一大笔钱，帮我解了燃眉之急。
He immediately gave me a large sum of money to help me meet my immediate needs.
最后，我还是把货给他了。
Finally, I gave him the goods.
尽管我知道他会倒卖。
Even though I know he'll resell them.
为了卖口罩，我也受了不少气。
I also suffered a lot from selling masks.
有一次，一批黄冈的中介和我约定过来收货。
Once, a group of Huanggang intermediary and I agreed to come to receive the goods.
他们来之前，我一个人搬了一百多箱口罩上楼，直到凌晨三点，整个人都累瘫痪了。
Before they arrived, I carried more than a hundred cases of masks upstairs alone until three in the morning and I was paralyzed.
地上还剩70箱。
There are 70 cases left on the floor.
他们终于来了，非要我白送多余的口罩。
They finally came and insisted that I give away the extra masks.
我气得半死，想当场翻脸不卖了，他们一群人就把我围着、堵着。
I was so angry that I tried not to sell my face on the spot. A crowd of them surrounded me and blocked me up.
如果我不卖给他们，我得再把那70箱搬上楼，而我实在搬不动了，最后只能妥协。
If I don't sell them, I'll have to carry those 70 cases upstairs again, and I can't move any more, so I have to compromise.
但我太憋屈了。
But I'm so choked.
他们来之前，说是为了救援家乡，黄冈属于重灾区，很困难，需要这批口罩。
Before they came, said to be to rescue home, Huanggang is a disaster area, very difficult, the need for these masks.
我答应卖给他们。
I promised to sell them.
结果他们过来之后，还没交易，就开始倒卖。
As a result, they did not trade, began to resell.
医生们在一线拼命，中介们却在拼命赚钱。
Doctors are desperate, and intermediaries are desperate to make money.
还有人跑到我家楼下，敲了半天门，恳求“你给我一箱吧，我们家有困难”。
Someone ran downstairs and knocked on the door for half a day and begged, "Give me a case. We have a problem."
我给了他一箱，很快就看到他发朋友圈，翻倍卖口罩。
I gave him a box and soon saw him in a circle of friends, doubling the number of masks.
这种人太多了，哪怕他只拿到一箱口罩，也倒卖，家里人都不分。
This kind of person is too many, even if he only gets a case of mask, also resell, the family does not divide.
你说我能怎么办呢？我只能在微信里骂他们，有些人就把我拉黑。
What do you think I can do? I can only scold them in my letters, and some people blacken me.
3捐了10万只N951月21日，有一个女同学找我买口罩。
Donated 100,000 N951. On 21 / 21 / 2001, a schoolgirl asked me to buy a mask.
我卖了一箱给她。
I sold her a case.
她是医务人员。
She's a medic.
她后来跟我说，科室每个人一天只有一个口罩，她要买一些分给同事。
She later told me that everyone in the department had only one mask a day and she wanted to buy some to share with her colleagues.
她老公也是医护人员，当时已经发烧两周。
Her husband, a paramedic, had a fever for two weeks.
我刚收了钱就开始后悔，虽然没赚她的钱，但良心过不去。
No sooner had I received the money than I began to regret that I had not earned her money, but my conscience was not strong enough.
那天我失眠了，觉得我得做点什么。
I had insomnia that day and felt I had to do something.
1月21日，江岸区政府办秘书科科长打电话找我，说想买一批口罩。
On January 21, the head of the secretary of the Jiangxi District Government called me and said he wanted to buy a batch of masks.
我告诉他，行，这批口罩算我捐的，不收钱。
I told him, OK, I donated these masks. No charge.
一开始他不相信。
At first he didn't believe it.
那天半夜，他带着钱来找我，说已经向领导汇报过，领导说必须原价收购，不能让我这样的人吃亏。
In the middle of the night, he came to me with the money and said that he had reported to the leader that he had to buy at the original price and that he could not let people like me lose money.
我带他去我家，给了他一万多只N95口罩。
I took him to my house and gave him more than 10,000 N95 masks.
他从微信上转账给我，我没要。
He sent me a credit card. I didn't ask for it.
他很感动，说现在武汉市还没什么人捐赠。
He was moved to say that there were few donations from Wuhan.
后来听说，这批口罩很快被安排送去武汉市江岸区卫生健康局。
It was later heard that the masks were quickly sent to the Jiangan District Health Bureau in Wuhan.
工作人员下班了，货暂时寄托在值班室。
The staff is off duty and the goods are in the duty room.
1月24日是除夕。
January 24th is New Year's Eve.
那天白天，我又捐了一万多只口罩给江岸区政府。
During the day, I donated more than 10,000 surgical masks to the Jiangxi government.
江岸区是重灾区，隔壁就是江汉区，那里有华南海鲜市场，还有好几个大社区。
Jianjiang is a disaster area, next door is Jianghan District, where there is a South China seafood market, there are several large communities.
晚上，我忙完回家，电视在放春节联欢晚会，一派和谐。
In the evening, I am busy coming home, the TV is playing the Spring Festival Gala, a harmonious school.
我心不在焉地刷着手机，直到看到一则短视频——一位医护人员在办公室崩溃大哭，周围人在默默吃饭或拭泪。
I brushed my phone absently until I saw a short video of a paramedic crashing into tears and eating in silence or wiping tears.
我心里特别难受，再也坐不住了，清点了一下家里的库存，还有7万多只口罩。
I was so sick that I couldn't sit back and check my inventory and over 70,000 masks.
我拨了科长的电话，说，你赶紧安排人过来，把我家的口罩全清了。
I dialed the head of the section, said that you hasten to arrange someone to come over, my family mask completely clean.
现在，立刻，马上来，不要等我后悔。
Now, right now, come here, don't wait for me to regret it.
很快来了十多辆车，各个街道重灾区的干部全都开着私家车过来，上我家搬货。
Soon came more than a dozen cars, all the cadres in the most affected areas of the streets in private cars, come to my home to carry goods.
整个除夕夜，我们就在干这个事，干完都凌晨4点了。
We did it all New Year's Eve, and it was 4: 00 in the morning.
我给自家留了一箱口罩，但只留了2天，1月27日，我把最后一箱口罩给了社区干部，他们整个社区只有100个普通口罩。
I left a case of masks for my family, but only for two days. On January 27, I gave my last case to community leaders, who had only 100 face masks for their entire community.
10万只N95口罩的捐赠之旅到此结束了，都给了政府。
The donation of 100,000 N95 masks is now over and given to the government.
这些口罩规格较高，当时都属于高价货，总成本在40万元左右。
The masks were of a high standard and were of high value at the time, at a total cost of about $400,000.
4“我没帮到这个朋友，心里一直记得”在2020年之前，我有过太多遗憾。
"I didn't help this friend, I still remember" I had too much regret until 2020.
比如我养了一只虎斑美短猫，养到5岁，好不容易教会它不上床蹦跶，它就得了肠胃炎，去了喵星。
For example, I kept a tiger cub until I was 5 years old, and I managed to teach it not to go to bed, and it got gastroenteritis and went to Meow.
我时常觉得，自己如此平凡。
I often feel that I am so ordinary.
折腾口罩这件事，我的家人不太理解，也不支持。
My family did not understand or support the idea of a face mask.
进货款是用我爸的钱垫付的，虽然他不同意，我也先用上了。
The purchase price was paid in advance with my father's money, although he did not agree, I used it first.
我老婆一开始也反对。
My wife objected at first, too.
她教育我，像正常人一样待在家里就行了，“不要搞这种事！”她的担心不是没有理由的，我们的孩子还不满半岁。
She taught me to stay at home as a normal person, "Don't do this!" Her fears were not unreasonable, our children were less than half a year old.
但卖到第三天，她忍不住来亲自督战，拦都拦不住。
On the third day, however, she could not resist the temptation to fight herself.
因为卖口罩，我损失了一部苹果手机和一个轮胎。
I lost an Apple phone and a tire because I was selling masks.
1月19日，我骑摩托去取货，苹果X手机摔到地上，内外屏粉碎，神仙也修不了。
On January 19, I rode a motorcycle to pick up the goods, Apple X phone fell to the ground, inside and outside the screen shattered, immortal could not repair.
除夕前一夜，为了赶时间，我骑摩托去汉口北找人拿货。
The night before New Year's Eve, in order to hurry, I rode to Hankou to find people to pick up the goods.
那里和我家隔了30公里。
It's 30 kilometers from my house.
结果路上，摩托车胎扎了钉子，没气了。
On the way, the motorbike got a nail in its tire and was out of breath.
我只能硬着头皮，强行骑回去。
I had to force my way back.
那晚下大雨，我没带雨衣，浑身湿透，骑了一个多小时才到家。
It rained heavily that night. I was wet through without a raincoat and had to ride for more than an hour to get home.
想想还是蛮后怕的，毕竟雨天路滑，车胎破了很危险。
Think or rather afraid of, after all, rainy road slippery, a flat tire is very dangerous.
那辆川崎摩托是我的心爱，到手才4个月，现在找不到人补胎，只能把它闲置。
That Kawasaki motorcycle is my favorite, hands only 4 months, now can not find a replacement, can only leave it idle.
卖口罩那些天，我常骑着它，很后悔没给它装个摄像头，记录经历的这一切。
The days I sold the mask, I used to ride it, and I regret not having put a camera on it to record my experience.
疫情期间，很多口罩商赚得盆满钵满。
During the epidemic, many mask makers were flush with cash.
政府管控价格之前，少则赚七八十万、多则六七百万的人，多了去了。
Before the government regulated prices, there were seven or eight hundred thousand people, or six or seven million people, gone.
假如我是奔着赚钱去的，这波行情里，我也可以挣一套江景房。
If I am running for money, this wave of market, I can also earn a set of Jiangjing Housing.
他们都发财了，我可能是唯一一个倒贴钱的口罩商。
They're all rich, and I'm probably the only money-strapping mask dealer.
这个春节，我还有很多遗憾。
This Spring Festival, I still have a lot of regrets.
1月21日，我萌生去协和医院卖口罩的想法，一元一只，卖给没有口罩的病人和医护人员。
On January 21, I came up with the idea of selling masks at Concorde Hospital, one for every dollar sold to patients and medical staff without masks.
这样既可以帮到很多人，我也不至于亏太多。
This can help a lot of people, I will not lose too much.
我问了几个朋友，没人愿意陪我去。
I asked a few friends that no one would accompany me.
最后我退缩了，因为没有防护服。
At last I recoiled because there was no protective clothing.
疫情期间，口罩成了硬通货，可以换任何物资，包括酒精、手套、护目镜、菜和药品。
During the outbreak, masks became hard currency and could be exchanged for anything, including alcohol, gloves, goggles, vegetables and medicines.
有一个朋友的朋友找我帮忙拿药。
A friend of a friend asked me for medicine.
他一家三口中招，二人在家硬扛，只有一个人住进医院，但依然没有药，只能干等。
His family three mouth move, two people at home hard to carry, only one person living in the hospital, but still no medicine, can only do.
医院的压力太大了，药物也很缺。
The hospitals are under too much pressure, and drugs are scarce.
一些病人遇上医院没有药，只能拿着处方回家，自己解决买药问题。
Some patients come home with prescriptions when they have no medicine and solve their own drug-buying problems.
我没帮到这个朋友，心里一直记得。
I didn't help the friend. I remember it.
我的口罩解决了很多人的难题，我也因此和他们成了患难之交。
My mask has solved many people's problems and I have become friends with them through thick and thin.
有陌生人说要请我吃饭，还有朋友想拉我一起卖牛肉。
A stranger said he would treat me to dinner, and a friend tried to pull me to sell the beef.
牛肉现在是武汉的稀缺物资，大多数家庭吃不到。
Beef is now a scarce commodity in Wuhan, and most families cannot eat it.
武汉是一座英雄的城市。
Wuhan is a city of heroes.
2月7日，武汉市中心医院李文亮医生去世，我泪目了。
February 7, Wuhan City Central Hospital Dr. Lee Wenliang passed away, I tears.
那是这么多天来最伤感的时刻。
It was the saddest moment in so many days.
科长也快崩溃了。
The section chief is about to collapse.
他每天下基层，跟他换班的副科长摔了一跤，髌骨骨折，只能回家。
Every day he went to the grass-roots, with his replacement deputy head fell, patella fracture, had to go home.
现在全是他一个人值班，手机成了24小时热线，每天工作到凌晨两三点，早上8点不到就起来，已经持续了十几天。
He is now on duty alone, his cell phone has become a 24-hour hotline, working until two or three in the morning and getting up before 8 a.m., which has lasted for more than a decade.
比起他们，我只是一个普通小市民。
I'm just an ordinary citizen compared to them.
武汉有很多跟我一样的人，就是捐家当的少了点，卖命的人还很多。
Wuhan has a lot of people like me, is to donate a little less of the people still working hard.
我希望我的城市快点好起来，等疫情结束，我想做的第一件事就是跟朋友去吃火锅。
I hope my city will get better soon. When the epidemic is over, the first thing I want to do is eat hot pot with my friends.
（应受访者要求，浦君为化名）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
(At the request of the interviewee, PuJun punches the picture below to continue reading the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一位武汉青年和100万只N95里的“妖魔鬼怪”。
An Wuhan youth and a million N95 "demons".
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "一位武汉青年和100万只N95里的“妖魔鬼怪”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; 1 million N95.
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
