面对疫情，意大利在寻找一个平衡点 | 海外“疫区”生活日记。
Faced with the epidemic, Italy is looking for a diary of life overseas that has struck a balance at its service.
沉白白。
Sink in vain.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲春天来了，学校门前的路却空空荡荡。
When spring came, the road in front of the school was empty.
（沉白白/图）全文共4034字，阅读大约需要7分钟。
The full text is 4,034 words and takes about seven minutes to read.
威尼托大区本周关闭了学校，却没有要求大家在家隔离。
Veneto closed its schools this week, but did not require isolation at home.
看着窗外三三两两去踢球的孩子我的内心十分复杂，想起超市里戴着一次性橡胶手套买走最后一瓶消毒水的意大利大叔又让我感觉分裂。
Looking out the window at the kids playing football in twos and threes, I thought of the Italian uncle in the supermarket wearing disposable rubber gloves to buy the last bottle of disinfectant.
在个体自由与集体利益之间，意大利需要非常小心地找到一个能够逐渐控制疫情的平衡，或者说，未来的两周里，它会证明是否真的有这样一个平衡点存在。
Between individual freedoms and collective interests, Italy needs to be very careful to find a balance that can gradually control the epidemic, or whether, in the next two weeks, it will prove that such a balance exists.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 沉白白责任编辑 | 杨嘉敏随着上周五（2020年2月21日）意大利第一例本土感染的新冠肺炎患者确诊，我突然身处“疫区”之中：20公里外的Vo’ Euganeo，两位老人在入院多日后核酸检测阳性，波及医护和其他病患，医院封闭时里面尚有450位患者及工作人员。
Starting last Friday (February 21, 2020) with Italy's first home-grown infection, I suddenly found myself in an epidemic zone: Vo 'Euganeo, two elderly people who tested positive for nucleic acid many days after admission, affecting health care and other patients. There were 450 patients and staff at the time of the hospital's closure.
接下来的每天都有新发病例确诊，离我居住的Padova市越来越近：截止27日晚，整个威尼托大区累计已经有116位核酸检测阳性，包括63例无症状感染，28名罹患肺炎入院，其中8位病情危重。
Every day that followed, new cases were diagnosed, closer and closer to the city of Padova, where I live: by the evening of 27, 116 people had been tested positive for nucleic acid, including 63 asymptomatic infections and 28 hospitalizations for pneumonia, eight of them critically.
20人接受医学观察，3人出院。
Twenty were medically observed and three were discharged.
这次疫情中意大利并非疏于防守：国家层面，武汉爆发新冠肺炎以来它是第一个宣布关闭中国航线的国家。
Italy has not been lax in its defense: at the national level, Wuhan has been the first country to announce the closure of its routes since the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia.
而日常生活中，2020年1月底，所有辗转从中国返回的华人都要求向卫生局报到并居家隔离14天，Padova就有两百多位华人主动接受了核酸检测，均为阴性。
In everyday life, by the end of January 2020, all Chinese returning from China had requested to report to the Health Bureau and remain in isolation for 14 days. Over 200 Chinese in Padova had volunteered to have their nucleic acid tested negative.
所以当我看到爆发的新闻与1号病人的生活轨迹时，简直哭笑不得，仿佛一座博物馆装配了最先进的防盗设施，却被工作人员的一颗烟头烧个精光。
So when I saw the news breaking out and the trajectory of patient No. 1, it was like a museum equipped with state-of-the-art anti-theft facilities but burned down with a cigarette end.
病毒有充分的理由喜欢意大利人，他们热情开朗自来熟，见面打招呼行贴面礼（脸颊贴在一起左右左亲三次），业余生活丰富多彩，上有老下有小的年纪依然可以每周吃饭蹦迪踢球跑马拉松。
There are good reasons for the virus to like Italians, they come to know each other warmly, greet each other with a greeting veneer (cheek by cheek three times), and live a rich and colorful life.
于是1号病人以一己之力造成5万人隔离或医学观察，成功将病毒洒满意大利北部，又跟随意大利游客的脚步以不可阻挡之势蔓延到全欧洲。
As a result, Patient 1, with his own efforts, isolated or medically observed 50,000 people, managed to spread the virus throughout northern Italy, and followed the footsteps of Italian tourists across Europe in an unstoppable fashion.
一个小镇出现确诊，全部8位华人居民都被要求进行核酸检测（结果都是阴性），生活在意大利的华人却是目前最安全的群体——至少我认为如此。
In one small town, where all eight Chinese residents were tested for nucleic acids (all negative), the Chinese living in Italy are by far the safest - at least I think so.
我们的防疫工作早在武汉封城之前就开始了。
Our epidemic prevention work began long before the closure of Wuhan.
1月下旬看到新冠肺炎的新闻我就开始焦虑，从淘宝为国内家人买了口罩。
When I saw news of the new crown pneumonia in late January, I became worried, buying masks for my family back home from Taobao.
意大利华人积极为国内筹措物资；而我连夜取消与推迟春节期间旅拍与海外婚礼的工作，在亚马逊和专业网站逮到几盒漏网之鱼，去中国超市囤够了两周的零食调料，自觉开启宅家抗疫模式。
Chinese in Italy actively raise money for the country; overnight I canceled and postponed travel and overseas weddings during the Spring Festival, snagged boxes of fish from Amazon and professional websites, spent two weeks in Chinese supermarkets stocking up on snack dressings, and consciously launched a homestead anti-epidemic model.
华人社群风声鹤唳的时候，意大利人非常乐观自信。
Italians are very optimistic and confident when the Chinese community is rickety.
除开亚马逊口罩成倍涨价，专业医药网站口罩库存脱销，本地人只认为这是遥远东方正在经历的一场感冒。
In addition to Amazon mask multiplication, professional medicine website mask stock out of stock, local people only think that this is a distant eastern experience of a cold.
作者家的抗疫物资储备，包括各类消毒水、常用药、一次性橡胶手套、洗鼻液、免洗酒精洗手液、消毒湿巾及口罩。
The author's stock of anti-epidemic materials includes disinfectant, common medicine, disposable rubber gloves, nose lotion, alcohol-free hand sanitizer, disinfectant wipes and masks.
（沉白白/图）春节后我开始在公共场所戴口罩。
I started wearing masks in public after the Spring Festival.
熟悉的意大利人带着警惕关切：在本地的公共卫生指南里，只有严重免疫缺陷或烈性传染病患者才会戴口罩出门，无论哪种情况都是“命不久矣”的标志。
Familiar Italians are wary: in local public-health guidelines, only people with a severe immune deficiency or a severe infectious disease will wear a mask to go out, in either case a sign of "a short life."
我为避免麻烦只好一律说因为花粉过敏，哪怕往年都是从3月才开始花粉季。
To avoid trouble, I always say that pollen allergies, even though the pollen season usually starts in March.
陌生的意大利人看见我如同瘟疫，迎面走来自动弹开。
The strange Italian saw me like a pestilence, coming face to face from moving.
朋友圈里开始有各类流言，真真假假说的都是意大利人对“口罩华人”的歧视甚至暴力。
Rumours began to circulate in the circle of friends that Italians discriminated against, or even abused, the Chinese mask-wearing community.
当2例中国游客在意大利被确诊，华人和他们所经营的餐厅与商业成为意大利人心中避之不及的“疫区”，客流量骤降50-80%，米兰有议员去唐人街中餐馆吃饭“撑华人反歧视”。
When two Chinese tourists were diagnosed in Italy, the Chinese and the restaurants and businesses they run became the worst affected areas for Italians. Passenger traffic dropped by 50-80%.
谁也不曾料到三周之后华人商户纷纷关门休假，是害怕被意大利人传染。
No one expected that after three weeks Chinese businesses would be closed down for fear of being infected by Italians.
2月的意大利有许多国际性的活动，离我最近的是米兰时装周与威尼斯狂欢节。
There were many international events in Italy in February, most recently Milan Fashion Week and the Venice Carnival.
我们在时装周的工作毫无悬念地取消了，因为80%的中国买手与秀场嘉宾未能出席。
Our work at Fashion Week was cancelled without a hitch, as 80% of Chinese buyers and show guests were unable to attend.
根据安莎社的报道，受中国的疫情影响，今年意大利奢侈品销售会面临30%的降幅。
Italy faces a 30 percent drop in luxury sales this year as a result of the Chinese epidemic, according to Ansar News.
旅游市场也格外冷清：没有了春节假期的客流，威尼斯高级酒店的房价近乎腰斩。
The travel market is also particularly bleak: without the flow of Spring Festival holiday guests, Venetian premium hotels almost halved in price.
但这一切都不影响当地歌舞升平的日常，关于新冠肺炎的防疫，最主要的措施仅仅是“看好那些中国人”。
But all this does not affect the daily life of the local song and dance, the new crown pneumonia vaccination, the most important measure is only "optimistic about those Chinese."
而中文社交媒体上流传甚广的一张圣马可广场上有人身穿防护服却没能正确佩戴口罩的照片，其实只是狂欢节上游客讽刺疫情的扮相。
A widely publicized picture of someone wearing protective clothing on St. Mark's Square and not wearing a mask correctly is just the caricature of a carnival visitor.
在中国网站上流传甚广的这张图片，其实只是威尼斯狂欢节上的恶搞扮相。
This image, which is widely circulated on Chinese websites, is really just a caricature of the carnival in Venice.
（南方周末资料图/图）2月中旬生活依然平静，虽然坚持戴口罩的我受人侧目，形势似乎已经缓和。
Life in the middle of February remained calm, though I was flouted by my insistence on wearing a mask and the situation seemed to have eased.
寄防护服回中国时，邮局工作人员已经对流程与文件轻车熟路，安抚我说今天一定发出，并对中国的困难表示同情。
By the time I returned to China, the post office staff had become familiar with the flow and documentation, reassured me that it would be delivered today, and sympathized with China's difficulties.
我把之前囤的四盒口罩也寄回了中国，乐观地认为只要华人社群不爆发疫情，意大利就可以满分交卷。
I sent back to China four boxes of masks previously hoarded, optimistic that Italy would be able to pass the exam as long as there was no outbreak in the Chinese community.
作者在2月14日寄出和朋友们一起捐赠的防护服，但因为直航取消，至今还未到中国。
The author mailed protective clothing donated with friends on Feb. 14, but has not arrived in China because of the cancellation of direct flights.
（沉白白/图）然而生活总是在一个轻率的决定之后给人当头一棒。
Life, however, is always followed by a rash decision.
那边EMS还在海上漂，这头意大利的疫情就爆发了。
The EMS was still floating there, and the outbreak in Italy began.
2月21日星期五晚上，意大利首次公布本土传播病例，北部两个城市聚集发病，刷爆了我的朋友圈。
On the evening of Friday, 21 February, Italy announced its first case of indigenous transmission when two northern cities gathered to blow up my circle of friends.
安莎社网站罕见的整版全是疫情报道，数字每小时上涨，我立刻取消了第二天去米兰看场地的行程，又劝退3月初准备从剑桥来威尼斯面谈的新娘，等到打开亚马逊的网站搜索“口罩”，之前买过的全线售罄，医用一次性外科口罩暴涨到100欧50支。
I cancelled my trip to Milan the next day to see the venue, and persuaded my bride, who had come to Venice from Cambridge in early March, to wait until Amazon's website was opened to search for masks, which had been sold out and medical disposable surgical masks skyrocketed to 100 O50.
想着过去的一个月每天戴一个新的口罩，为自己的挥霍感到懊恼。
Think about wearing a new mask every day for the past month and be annoyed at your profligacy.
最后匆忙找到一家50欧的下单了一盒，隔天收到发现是薄薄的两层：趁乱打劫的人哪里都有，这点倒是和病毒很像。
Finally, I hurried to find a 50O order, and the next day it was found to be a thin two-story: wherever the looters were, it was very similar to the virus.
周五在不断跳动的数字中过完惊心动魄的一整晚。
Friday in the beating of the number of the thrilling end of the night.
家人和朋友纷纷在凌晨发来消息询问近况——国内的周六早上，意大利的疫情已经在中国传开。
Families and friends sent word in the wee hours asking how things were -- the epidemic in Italy had spread across China on Saturday morning.
妈妈很焦虑，我在最初的几个小时之后趋于冷静：数字迅速上涨说明监控范围大，排查面积广，信息透明。
My mother was anxious, and I tended to cool down after the first few hours: the rapid rise in the number indicated a wide range of surveillance, extensive screening and transparency of information.
更何况检测的对象是密切接触者，其中大部分并未出现症状更无须治疗。
Moreover, the subjects of the tests were close contacts, most of whom had no symptoms and needed no treatment.
这部分阳性案例被及时隔离，能有效阻止疫情扩散。
This part of the positive cases were isolated in time, can effectively prevent the spread of the epidemic.
我在四川经历过汶川地震，也有强烈的防灾意识。
I experienced Wenchuan earthquake in Sichuan, also have a strong sense of disaster prevention.
所以周六起床的头等大事便是囤物资准备居家隔离。
So the biggest thing to get up on Saturday is hoarding material for home isolation.
一夜之间，防疫10条生活守则已经贴在城市道路的广告牌上，介绍了新冠病毒感染的症状，强调不要自行去急诊室，勤洗手等等，效率之高是我在意大利10年前所未见：从前的印象里让意大利人周末加班简直比登天还难。
Overnight, the 10 rules of life for immunization have been posted on billboards on city roads, introducing the symptoms of infection with the new crown virus, emphasizing not to go to the emergency room yourself, wash your hands frequently, and so on, with an efficiency I never saw in Italy a decade ago: it was hard to get Italians to work overtime on weekends.
但细看下来这守则又让人哭笑不得：第8条写着，产自中国的商品和寄自中国的包裹是安全的，无需因为接触过而申请核酸检测。
But on closer inspection, the code makes one cry: Article 8 states that goods from China and parcels sent from China are safe and do not require a nucleic acid test as a result of exposure.
第7条强调“只有出现相关症状或与新冠肺炎患者密切接触才需要佩戴口罩，日常戴口罩是不对的”。
Article 7 stresses that "masks should be worn only if there are relevant symptoms or are in close contact with patients with Newcomial Pneumonia, and that it is not right to wear a mask on a daily basis."
但我们从中国知道的经验是新冠病毒潜伏期长，意大利的无症状携带者尤其多，“不让他人恐慌”和“保护自己与对方”之间孰轻孰重，其实并不难抉择。
But what we know from China is that the incubation period of the new crown virus is long, especially in Italy, where asymptomatic carriers are more likely to choose between "no one panics" and "protect yourself from each other."
天气很好，人却很少。
The weather is fine, but the people are few.
（沉白白/图）在指导政策与独立思考之间，意大利人民也会用脚投票：周六一早家居DIY店的工业防护口罩已经卖空。
Between guiding policy and independent thinking, Italians also vote with their feet: Industrial respirators sold out in DIY stores early Saturday morning.
护目镜与乳胶手套也缺货，大概有不少消息灵通的人看了中国的新闻。
Goggles and latex gloves were also out of stock, and probably a lot of well-informed people read the news in China.
戴着口罩的我直奔主题不再闲逛，5分钟内买齐所需来到收银台，却听到两个收银员翻着白眼用嫌弃的口吻在议论我：“她为什么戴口罩?”“不知道，可能因为她有病吧。
Dressed in a mask, I walked straight to the subject no more, and within five minutes I was at the cash register, when two cashiers turned their white eyes and said, "Why is she wearing a mask?"
”这样的言论放在平时已经涉嫌歧视，本应找他们经理投诉理论的。
Such statements, already suspected of discrimination in peacetime, should have sought their manager's complaint theory.
但当下我只想着中国超市的螺蛳粉，便不再恋战赶紧走人。
But for the moment I was just thinking about Chinese supermarket snail powder, so I stopped loving each other and left quickly.
国内发生疫情之后中国超市长时间门可罗雀。
Supermarkets in China have been out of business for a long time after the outbreak.
意大利人不敢去，华人担心有国内病毒携带者光顾也不敢去。
Italians do not dare to go, the Chinese fear that the domestic virus carriers patronize also afraid to go.
但这个周六不同。
But this Saturday is different.
意大利公布疫情的第二天，方便面货架几乎被搬空，速冻水饺也宣告售罄，连大米都只剩下最后一袋，看来全城华人跟我一样都打算向中国学习把病毒憋死在家里。
The day after the outbreak was announced in Italy, instant-noodle shelves were nearly empty and the frozen dumplings sold out, leaving only the last bag of rice left. It seems that Chinese across the city, like me, are planning to learn from China and suffocate the virus at home.
平日里货比三家的劲头不见了，大家都戴着口罩埋头添加购物车，因为老板说明天开始不再开门营业，只接受网上预订，定时取货。
The usual rush to shop around disappeared, with everyone wearing masks and adding shopping carts because the boss said he would not open until tomorrow, but would only accept online bookings and pick them up regularly.
意大利超市还是懵懂无知的另一番景象。
Italian supermarkets are still the other side of the coin.
至少我的城市并不像网上流传的那样遭到哄抢货架被搬空。
At least my city isn't being emptied of its shelves, as the internet suggests.
哪怕位于疫情的“黄区”：即未封锁但严格管控区域，包括米兰市和Padova市等，蔬菜肉类甚至海鲜都应有尽有，只是酒精洗手液和消毒用品缺货。
Even in the "yellow zone" of the epidemic: unsealed but tightly controlled areas, including Milan and the city of Padova, everything from vegetable meat to seafood is available, except for alcohol hand sanitizers and disinfectant supplies.
但这才是疫情公布的第二天，还有大部分不知道或不关心疫情的意大利人没有任何防护物资，短时间内可能也很难买到。
But this is the second day of the epidemic, and most Italians who do not know or care about the epidemic do not have any protective material and may be hard to buy anytime soon.
超市照常营业，水果蔬菜供应充足价格合理。
Supermarkets are open as usual and fruit and vegetables are plentiful at reasonable prices.
（沉白白/图）周六下午城市的气氛开始紧张，可能因为确诊的数字增长太快，有可能我们的城市附近病例太多，街上也有其他人戴起了口罩。
The atmosphere in the city began to get tense on Saturday afternoon, probably because the number of diagnosed cases was rising too fast, there might be too many cases near our city, and other people on the street were wearing masks.
楼下药房在中午贴出告示称“口罩售罄”。
The pharmacy downstairs put up a sign at noon saying "masks sold out."
如今意大利的官方指南不推荐民众日常佩戴口罩，一部分也是无奈之举。
Today, Italy's official guidelines do not recommend that people wear masks on a daily basis, partly out of desperation.
毕竟有限的医疗资源只有用在最需要的地方，才能发挥最大的效益。
After all, limited medical resources work best when they are spent where they are most needed.
傍晚回家时遇到房东先生，他年过七旬，去年动过大手术身体虚弱，如今每周需要去医院复诊，老两口都属于新冠肺炎的易感人群。
On his way home in the evening, he met his landlord. He was over 70 and had a major operation last year. Now he needed to see the hospital every week.
他用围巾捂住口鼻，希望在药店买到两个口罩应急：显然这已经是不可能完成的任务。
He covered his mouth and nose with a scarf, hoping to buy two face masks at the drugstore: it was clearly an impossible task.
于是我赶紧回家从仅剩的一盒里拿了10个口罩，加上一瓶酒精洗手液送到楼下。
So I hurried home and took 10 masks from the only box I had left, along with a bottle of alcohol sanitizer downstairs.
房东太太像往常一样健谈，从我家猫狗问候到故乡亲人，又吐槽意大利政府防疫不力：有国民咨询卫生部滞留在中国怎么办，卫生部建议从泰国转机回意大利；又说新冠病毒的重症主要是老年人，但媒体只强调轻症为主大多能自愈，似乎忽视了老年人的利益。
The landlady was always talkative, greeting my cat and dog to my family in my hometown, and spitting poorly on the Italian government. The ministry suggested transiting back to Italy from Thailand for advice on what to do with the Ministry of Health.
我们站在门里和门外聊了许久，分别的时候没有像以前一样行贴面礼，她向我飞吻，我向她手动比心，然后我们各自回家，可能挺久不会再见面。
We stood at the door and chatted for a long time. We parted without the veneer, she blew me a kiss, I manually compared to her, and then we went home, and probably never saw each other again for a long time.
意大利人终于戴起了口罩。
The Italians finally put on their masks.
（沉白白/图）疫情发生的48小时之内意大利就下达了封城和关闭学校的命令，紧接着米兰大教堂关闭，威尼斯狂欢节提前闭幕，阿玛尼的发布会也取消了所有的观众，只留下模特在T台上走秀。
Within 48 hours of the outbreak Italy ordered the closure of the city and schools, followed by the closure of the cathedral of Milan, the early closing of the Carnival of Venice and the cancellation of the Armani show, leaving only the models to show up on the runway.
华人业主相约主动关闭了他们的商店、酒吧、理发店……贴上“放假一周”的告示。
Chinese owners took the initiative to close their shops, bars, barber shops... put up a "holiday for a week" notice.
被意大利媒体戏谑“大年三十都坚持赚钱”的老板们终于有了一个长长的假期。
Bosses, joked by the Italian media as they "stick to making money in their late 30s," finally have a long vacation.
同样为假期兴奋的还有停课后的孩子们。
Also excited about the holidays are the children after school suspension.
威尼托大区本周关闭了学校，却没有要求大家在家隔离。
Veneto closed its schools this week, but did not require isolation at home.
看着窗外三三两两去踢球的孩子我的内心十分复杂，想起超市里戴着一次性橡胶手套买走最后一瓶消毒水的意大利大叔又让我感觉分裂。
Looking out the window at the kids playing football in twos and threes, I thought of the Italian uncle in the supermarket wearing disposable rubber gloves to buy the last bottle of disinfectant.
在个体自由与集体利益之间，意大利需要非常小心地找到一个能够逐渐控制疫情的平衡，或者说，未来的两周里，它会证明是否真的有这样一个平衡点存在。
Between individual freedoms and collective interests, Italy needs to be very careful to find a balance that can gradually control the epidemic, or whether, in the next two weeks, it will prove that such a balance exists.
周四新增的确诊病例又离我近了一些，这次在Padova市区。
The new case confirmed Thursday is closer to me, this time in downtown Padova.
一位附近城市接诊过死亡患者的医生，在两天自我隔离后收到核酸检测阳性报告。
A doctor in a nearby city who treated dead patients received a positive nucleic acid test after two days of self-isolation.
万里之外的妈妈很紧张，但我依然戴着口罩遛狗，生活如常。
Mom was nervous thousands of miles away, but I still walked the dog in my mask and lived my life as usual.
毕竟我们已经不是从零开始学习对抗疫情，威尼托在只有30例确诊时就已经建好总计900个床位，满足隔离条件的独立帐篷方舱。
After all, we are no longer learning to fight the epidemic from scratch, with Veneto having built a 900-bed stand-alone tent to meet quarantine conditions when only 30 cases were diagnosed.
而在经历了数个口罩群里的乌龙与罗生门之后，远在美国的朋友寄出了两盒N95，看着快递追踪记录，我的心里又踏实了一些。
After experiencing Oolong and Luo Shengmen among several masks, friends in the United States mailed out two boxes of N95, looking at express delivery tracking records, and my heart was relieved.
戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
Click the image below to continue reading the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
面对疫情，意大利在寻找一个平衡点 | 海外“疫区”生活日记。
Faced with the epidemic, Italy is looking for a diary of life overseas that has struck a balance at its service.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "面对疫情，意大利在寻找一个平衡点 | 海外“疫区”生活日记";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; In the face of the epidemic, Italy is looking for a balance at & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Living Diary & quot; & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
