一场百万人的“云考试”，无人监考。
A "cloud test" for millions of people, no one invigilates.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
全文共4060字，阅读大约需要10分钟。
The full text is 4060 words and takes about 10 minutes to read.
此刻，这所闻名川渝的学校空空荡荡，数千名高中生仍四散在家中，等待着返校时间的确定。
At the moment, the famous Sichuan-Chongqing school is empty and thousands of high school students are still scattered around the house waiting for the return time to be determined.
然而，对于分秒必争的高三学生而言，返校时间不断延后，学习和竞争却不会停歇。
However, for the second-year high school students, the back-to-school time is constantly delayed, learning and competition will not stop.
这场“停课不停学”的全民战“疫”中，至关重要的仍是学生自主地“学”，这极大考验着他们在终身学习中的自主能动性。
In this "no-stop-learning" national war plague, it is still crucial for students to "learn" autonomously, which greatly tests their autonomy in lifelong learning.
文 |陈淼返校延期后，“停课不停学”的广大师生面临更加复杂的教育环境，形式的变化、时间和空间的变化连连相击，承受升学压力的中、高考学子也在逆风中酝酿着绝地反击。
When Chen Miao returned to school, the vast majority of students and teachers who had been suspended from school faced a more complex educational environment. Changes in form, time, and space continued to strike each other.
北京新高考元年，首次适应性测试的考场设在线上。
Beijing new college entrance examination year, the first adaptation test of the test venue set online.
3月3日，5万余名高三学子居家“云”开考。
March 3, more than 50,000 high school students at home "Yun" test.
同样备战高考的李林蔚身居成都，对这种方式并未感觉措手不及。
Li Lin Wei, who is also preparing for the college entrance examination, lives in Chengdu.
此前，他已使用猿题库App参加过多次在线模考，熟悉这种特定的考试情景和心理状态。
Previously, he had used App, the ape database, to take several online quizzes to familiarize himself with this particular test scenario and psychological state.
01百万人“云考试”2月15日，原是成都七中林荫校区开学的日子。
Cloud test for 01 million people February 15, was originally the day of the opening of the seven-Zhongyin campus in Chengdu.
一场疫情按下了暂停键。
An outbreak pressed the pause button.
此刻，这所闻名川渝的学校空空荡荡，数千名高中生仍四散在家中，等待着返校时间的确定。
At the moment, the famous Sichuan-Chongqing school is empty and thousands of high school students are still scattered around the house waiting for the return time to be determined.
然而，对于分秒必争的高三学生而言，返校时间不断延后，学习和竞争却不会停歇。
However, for the second-year high school students, the back-to-school time is constantly delayed, learning and competition will not stop.
这天下午两点，高三学生李林蔚准时坐在家里的书桌前，眼前一方手机屏幕上，是假期后的第一场考试。
At two o'clock that afternoon, Karen Li, a high school student, sat at her desk in front of her desk.
他对此格外重视——与在校时不同的是，他的竞争对手并非同校学生，而来自全国各地。
He takes this very seriously - unlike at school, his competitors are not co-students, but come from all over the country.
这是一场由猿辅导在线教育旗下猿题库App发起的初高考英语模拟考试，全国共有123万学生报名参与。
1.23 million students took the App test, a test run by App, the apes tutoring online ape education group.
同时，平台还会针对每个人的错题点、薄弱点进行分析，提供一份智能诊断报告，便于学生查漏补缺。
At the same time, the platform will target everyone's error point, weak points, provide an intelligent diagnostic report, so that students can check the missing.
提交试卷后5分钟，李林蔚收到了自己的成绩——146分，全国排名第9名，与第一名仅差2分。
Five minutes after submitting her test paper, Karen Lee received her own results - 146 points, the ninth place in the country, only two points short of the first.
他言语间透着轻松，“从高一到现在，我一直都参加，但这次考得最好。
He spoke with ease. "I've been in high school ever since, but this time I did the best.
”事实上，相比于名次，李林蔚更看重这场模考暴露出的问题，“主要收获就是查缺补漏”。
In fact, Li puts more emphasis on the problems revealed by the test than on rank, saying "the main harvest is missing and filling in leaks."
与此同时，在距离成都近2000公里的安徽省宣城市，一所县城中学的高三学生吴越，和李林蔚出现在了同一个“云考场”。
Meanwhile, Wu Yue, a senior at a county high school in Xuancheng, Anhui province, nearly 2,000 kilometers from Chengdu, appeared in the same "cloud test room" with Karen Li.
“全国模考的排名范围更广，给我提供了不同的维度来评估自己的学习水平。
"The national template has a wider range of rankings, giving me different dimensions to assess my level of learning.
”吴越也已经是猿题库线上模考的熟面孔，“我参加过好几次模考了，每次的排名有升有降，这给我提供了一个参考指标，来检测一个阶段的学习状况有无进步。
Wu Yue, who is already familiar with the ape question-and-answer test online, said: "I've taken several tests, and each time the rankings go up and down, which gives me a frame of reference to measure progress or not at a stage.
”此外，智能分析报告则为吴越提供了“对症下药”的可能性。
Moreover, the report offers Wu the possibility of "the right medicine."
考试结束后，吴越在手机上查看“猿题库百万人在线模考”成绩报告及错题解析比起这场“火”起来的模考，猿题库的老用户们更青睐它的刷题功能，这也正是这个在线教育App为人熟知的首要原因。
In the end of the exam, Wu Yue looked at his mobile phone and read the results of the "Great Apes Online Model" report and the error analysis. Compared with the "fire" model, the old users of the Great App question bank prefer its brush function, which is the primary reason why the online education App is well known.
早在初中时期，吴越偶然在手机应用商店看到了猿题库，被简洁的界面风格所吸引。
As early as junior high school, Wu Yue happened to see an ape database in the mobile app store, attracted by the simplicity of the interface style.
不久后，它就成为了吴越的“宝藏软件”——在校时间，他每天会抽出半个小时，有针对性地使用猿题库搜索往年的高考真题，或最新的模拟题。
Before long, it became Wu Yue's Treasure Software, which he spent half an hour a day at school, targeting the ape question bank for past college entrance exams or the latest simulations.
此外，如果遇到自己不懂的难题，他也会在猿题库上搜索大量同类型题目进行巩固练习。
In addition, if encountering problems he does not understand, he will also search the ape database for a large number of the same types of topics for consolidation exercises.
李林蔚也有着相似的体验，“猿题库刷题的效率很高，解析里的解题思路也很详细。
Karen Li has a similar experience, "the ape question bank to brush the efficiency is very high, the solution to the problem is very detailed.
”不同的是，李林蔚还下载了老师版的猿题库，“老师版可以把数学的选填题难度从高到低排，挑几个有难度的尝试攻克。
"Li Lin Wei also downloaded the teacher's version of the ape question bank," the teacher version of mathematics from high to low difficulty, select a few difficult attempts to overcome.
”延期开学期间，长期在家的吴越有了更多的自主学习时间，明显增加了猿题库的使用频率。
By postponing the start of the school year, Wu, who had been at home for a long time, had more time to study autonomously.
他讶异于线上题库对他的深度了解，“我可以针对自己的情况制定试卷，而题库也会根据我的答题情况进行数据分析和智能推荐。
He was surprised at the depth of his knowledge of the online question bank. "I can tailor my paper to my own situation, and the questions bank will analyze the data and recommend intelligently according to my answers.
”停课期间，吴越每天都在猿题库App上练习由系统为自己推荐的题目吴越不知道的是，手中这个题库之所以如此“懂”他，是因为经历了近乎严苛的筛选——50选1，猿题库现在的数百万道题是这么挑出来的。
Wu Yue practiced the topic recommended by the system on App, the apes database, every day during the school day. Wu did not know what the system had recommended for him.
筛选过程从线下开始。
The filtering process starts under the line.
它不是将纸上的题库简单搬到网上，而是由专业老师一一精选，题目不能有错，且要准确。
It is not the simple transfer of the paper to the Internet, but by the professional teachers select one by one, the topic can not be wrong, and accurate.
入库不是终点，至今已累计7亿次的做题数据也能帮助筛选。
Storehouse entry is not the end point, has accumulated 700 million questions to date data can also help screening.
猿题库运用动态分析算法，做题时长、准确率都可以使系统更好地分析学生的实际能力，及时调整题目参数、优化题库，实现动态、有针对性地推荐当下最适合的题目，更高效地帮助学生查漏补缺。
The problem bank of apes uses dynamic analysis algorithm, the length of the problem and the accuracy rate can make the system better analyze the actual ability of the students, adjust the parameter of the topic, optimize the question bank, and make the best use of the present situation.
如果一道题是多数学生都会做错的，系统便会自动提升它的难度系数，并推荐给做题能力更强的用户。
If a problem is one that most students do wrong, the system will automatically raise its difficulty coefficient and recommend it to users who have better problem-solving ability.
伴随着在家学习的时间不断延长，吴越察觉到，父母和老师对于线上教育平台难免有些顾虑，“主要是担心学生在接触网上产品时，不能专心学习，反而借着学习的名义做其他的事。
With the increasing amount of time spent studying at home, Wu became aware that parents and teachers had some misgivings about the online education platform. "The main concern is that when students come into contact with online products, they cannot concentrate on their studies and instead do other things in the name of learning.
”他坦言，这取决于个人的自制力，“如果是学习自主性比较强的学生，的确能通过这些线上产品接触到更好的教学资源，包括教师资源和模拟试题等。
This, he admits, depends on individual self-control: "Students who learn more autonomously do have access to better teaching resources through these online products, including teacher resources and mock exams.
”02“云课堂”的有效辅助早上6点20分，窗外天光未亮，胡成龙准时上线打卡，开始一天的教学工作。
02 Cloud Classroom Effective Help At 6: 20 a.m., before daylight out of the window, Hu started typing on time to start the day's work.
身为湖北省襄阳市南漳一中的一名高三班主任，胡成龙近日倍感压力——疫情使返校时间不断延后，家长们的焦虑情绪正不断蔓延。
Hu, a senior three-class director at Nanchangosaurus Middle School in Xiangyang, Hubei Province, has been stressed recently as parents' anxieties are spreading as the epidemic delays the return to school.
如何让“停课不停学”高效落地，成为了教师们急需解决的问题。
How to let the "non-stop learning" efficient landing has become an urgent problem for teachers to solve.
尽管学校迅速制定了线上学习的模式——从2月5日开始，两天上课、两天考试穿插进行，但仓促上阵的效果明显不尽如人意。
While schools quickly developed online-learning models, starting February 5, with two days of classes and two days of exams, the effect of rushing into action was clearly unsatisfactory.
“我们班一共78个人，但经常只有60个学生签到。
"There are 78 people in our class, but often only 60 students sign in.
”胡成龙发现，除了学生的主动性存在问题，习惯了课堂教学的老师们同样一头雾水：线上课程要怎么上，又到哪里去上？作业该如何布置，又如何批改？这时，胡成龙想到了自己从2016年就开始使用的猿题库。
Apart from the students' proactivity problems, Hu found that teachers accustomed to classroom instruction were just as confused: how and where to go for online classes, how homework should be arranged and how to correct them.At this point, Hu thought of the ape library he had been using since 2016.
彼时，首次带毕业班的他为了提升教学能力，增加题目的积累，下载了学生版的猿题库，“当时是抱着试一试的态度，用了一段时间后发现效果不错。
At that time, for the first time, in order to improve his teaching ability, increase the accumulation of problems, download the student version of the ape question bank, "was with a try attitude, after a period of time found good results.
”自那以后，他也常常给学生推荐这个软件。
Since then, he has often recommended the software to students.
面对延期返校，胡成龙下载了老师版的猿题库，教自己班里的学生如何使用，“有这样一个平台，既方便学生做题，也方便我批改。
Confronted with the delay in returning to school, Hu downloaded the teacher's version of the ape test book and taught his class how to use it.
”渐渐的，猿题库成为了“云课堂”的有效辅助工具，胡成龙也摸索出了一套自己的教学模式。
Gradually, the ape question bank became an effective aid to Cloud Classroom, and Hu developed his own teaching model.
目前，在他的班上，猿题库发挥的功能分为三部分：一是让学生按照章节刷题；二是利用猿题库将线下试卷转为线上试卷，教师在线上进行批改；三则是每天早上给学生布置一道大题，利用猿题库的答题名单，教师能迅速统计出大体情况。
In his class, the apes question bank has three functions: one is to let students follow the passage; the other is to use the database to turn the offline paper into an online paper. The third is to give students a big problem every morning.
效果慢慢呈现出来。
The effect is slowly showing.
胡成龙发现，班上有几名“老大难”学生有了变化，“有四五名学生，原本在学校里经常不能按时交作业，现在改成线上作业后，加上有父母的监督，他们的学习态度明显好了很多。
"There were four or five students in the class who were often unable to hand in their homework on time. Now, with parental supervision, they have a much better attitude to learning
”在胡成龙看来，这与家长的有效监督不无关系，也和软件的及时反馈功能有关——题库类App将学习过程拆解成一个个小任务，学生每完成任务便可获得即时反馈和奖励。
According to Hu, this has to do with effective parental supervision and with the software's ability to provide timely feedback - the process of learning is broken down into small tasks that students receive immediate feedback and rewards for completing their tasks.
比如在猿题库中是“拿香蕉“，每个章节有5根“香蕉”，刷够题后香蕉就会变成黄色，这甚至已经成为很多学生的口头禅——你今天拿了几根香蕉？猿题库会根据用户情况等动态调整难度系数，形成智能推荐，并在学生完成答题后给予即时反馈因此，胡成龙时常鼓励学生，“如果你们把总复习的25根香蕉刷满，到学校后，在高考场上，你也能尝到真实的甜头。
For example, in apes database is "take bananas," each chapter has five "bananas", after brush enough banana will become yellow, this has become a mantra for many students - you take a few bananas today, according to the user situation, and give immediate feedback.
”很快，南漳一中高三年级的其他老师们也看到了猿题库的优势，纷纷将这个软件带进了自己的“云课堂”。
Soon, other teachers in Nanchangosaurus Junior High School saw the advantages of the ape test bank, bringing the software into their own Cloud Classroom.
胡成龙的妻子是高一年级的一名教师，看见猿题库在高三年级的使用效果之后，她也开始尝试使用，并推荐给了自己的同事们。
Her wife, a teacher in the first year of high school, began experimenting with it after seeing how effective it was in the third grade, and recommended it to her colleagues.
此外，在高三年级的群里，猿辅导免费直播的课表也被迅速转发，“让学生自主安排时间去看。
In addition, in the third year of high school, the free-to-air ape tutorial calendar was quickly relayed, "letting students schedule their own time to see it.
”胡成龙称。
"said Hu.
但是，胡成龙也意识到，这场“停课不停学”的全民战“疫”中，至关重要的仍是学生自主地“学”，这极大考验着他们在终身学习中的自主能动性。
But Hu also realized that in the "learning-from-school" pandemic, it was still crucial for students to "learn" autonomously, which greatly tested their autonomy in life-long learning.
所以，他依然盼望能尽快开学，“越早对学生越有利。
So he still hopes to start school as soon as possible. "The sooner the better."
”03坚持“非主流”路径在这个特殊时期，学生和教师都迅速向线上“转身”。
Sticking to the "non-mainstream" path At this particular time, students and teachers quickly "turned around" online.
据公开数据显示，自学神器猿题库、小猿搜题等日活暴涨；视频通讯类工具钉钉、腾讯会议等被小学生祭出“一星好评”。
According to open data, self-taught ape database, apes search, and other daily living soaring; video communication tools nail, Tencent conference and other children sacrificed out of "a positive."
很多在线教育产品的增长曲线急速爬坡，迎来“Aha Moment”——被“美国增长黑客之父”肖恩·埃利斯定义为产品的高光时刻——用户真正发现产品的核心价值，并被迅速占据心智，成为产品的“自来水”。
The growth curve for many online educational products has soared, ushering in "Aha Moment," defined by Sean Ellis, "America's father of growth hackers," as a high-light moment for products - when users truly discover the core value of their products and are quickly captured by the mind as the "running water" of their products.
2月15日的一场“在线大模考”，创下百万中学生同时参与的突破性纪录。
An online model exam on Feb. 15 set a breakthrough record for millions of high school students.
时隔近两周，第二期模考上线，再度引发热议，#现在的孩子已经开始云考试了#登上微博热搜。
Nearly two weeks apart, the second model test on line, re-ignited hot discussion, # Now children have begun the cloud test # boarded Weibo hot search.
模考结束，学生纷纷在微博上晒成绩，并直言这场“云考试”炸出了自己不会的知识点这一切显得突然，却又似乎在猿题库、小猿搜题负责人Annie的意料之中，“自学刷题，本身就是刚需。
In the end of the test, students in micro-blogging results, and said that the "cloud test" blew out their knowledge that they do not seem to suddenly, but it seems in ape database, apes search leader Annie expected, "self-study brush problem, is just the need.
而这次因返校延期，自学的重要性凸显出来，需求得以更大的释放。
This time back to school because of the delay, the importance of self-study highlighted, demand can be more released.
”在线教育行业的发展以刚需和市场规模为基础。
The development of the online education industry is based on just demand and market size.
自然流量极速涌入线上，高并发量对行业也是一场考验，很多平台甚至已经精确到以天为单位去完成需求的迭代。
High concurrency is also a test for the industry, and many platforms are even accurate enough to iterate over requirements in days.
尽管业内对于正式开学后留存量的变化有所预期，但Annie认为，“不一样的是，这次的确涌入了很多没有体验过猿题库的新用户，我们也有信心留住他们。
Despite industry expectations of changes in retention after the official school year, Annie believes, "unlike this time, there has been an influx of new users who have not experienced the ape database, and we are confident that we will retain them.
”信心一方面来自于师生常年的肯定，“猿题库几年来都几乎没有花钱进行市场推广，而主要通过师生之间的口口相传，它的确可以提升教学效率，也可以为学生提供一个高质量的练习场景。
"Confidence, on the one hand, stems from the perennial affirmation by teachers and students that the ape library has spent very little money on marketing for several years, and that it can indeed improve teaching efficiency and provide students with a high-quality practice scene, mainly through word of mouth between teachers and students.
”数据则更为直观——据猿题库统计，在省市级别的重点中学中，每一个学生都在使用猿题库App；使用猿题库的学生超过1000人的学校已达7553所。
The numbers are more intuitive - at the provincial and municipal levels, where every student uses App, the apes' question bank, and at 7,553 schools with more than 1,000 students.
不仅如此，这些学生平均每天在猿题库上做33道题，其中近20%的学生做题时间超过40分钟。
Not only that, but the students did an average of 33 questions a day on apes, with nearly 20 percent of them doing them for more than 40 minutes.
而另一方面，源自猿题库本身的定位。
On the other hand, it comes from the location of the ape database itself.
回望成立之初，尽管其个性化越来越明显，定位与属性却从未改变。
Looking back on the beginning, although its individuation is becoming more and more obvious, positioning and attributes have never changed.
一场场看似无人监考的“云考试”，背后有着程序员、黑科技的坚实保障Annie常常在接受采访时被问到，“为什么小猿搜题、猿题库、猿辅导这些产品不合并在一起？”——将各种产品放在一个平面，这显然是在线教育公司的“主流”路径。
Annie, a programmer with solid protection of black technology, is often asked in interviews, "Why aren't apes searched, apes catalogued and apes tutored together" - putting products on a single surface is clearly the "mainstream" path for online education companies.
但团队有着更为长远的考虑，“猿辅导在线教育公司有着不同的产品矩阵，每个产品对应的是不同的定位和应用场景，拿猿题库来说，坚守的其实就是练习、备考场景，小猿搜题的定位是提供解题方法，为学生即时答疑，而猿辅导直播课则是系统性地通过课程带领学生学习……”Annie认为，正是因为有这些产品矩阵，每个产品有清晰的定位，才能把这一个场景做到最好，不会被市场吞没。
But the team has a longer-term perspective: "APE has a different product matrix and each product corresponds to a different location and application scenario. For example, apes search is a way to provide immediate answers to questions, while Apes tutoring classes systematically lead students through the curriculum..." Annie thinks it is because of these product matrices that each product is clearly positioned so that the market does not swallow it up.
居家学习中的脱颖而出，验证了这个选择的正确性。
The prominence of home-based learning validates this choice.
“这么多年，猿题库一直在自己适用的场景里深化优势，以及无可取代的价值。
"For so many years, the ape library has been deepening its strengths and its irreplaceable values in its own niche.
也正因此，猿题库这次才会在师生里取得这么大的反响。
It is for this reason that the ape library will have such a great impact on teachers and students.
”Annie称。
"said Annie.
但她并不认为这段特殊时期是一场冲刺，因为“教育本来就是一个长期的事情。
But she does not see this particular period as a sprint because "education is inherently a long-term process.
”时间倒回2013年，彼时的猿辅导在线教育公司正式进入K12领域，两年后，用户达到数千万，再到如今突破4亿，“7年过去了，其实这是一个很慢的过程，需要日积月累用户和口碑，然后才能形成品牌效应。
Back in 2013, when the online ape coaching company formally entered K12, two years later, the number of users reached tens of millions and has now surpassed 400 million. "Seven years on, it's a slow process that takes users and word of mouth to build a brand.
”至于未来如何，Annie说，“尽管这是件很慢的事情，但我们也将保持更强的耐心与坚守。
"As for the future," Annie says, "although it's a slow thing to do, we're going to be more patient and committed.
”（专题）。
(Special topics).
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一场百万人的“云考试”，无人监考。
A "cloud test" for millions of people, no one invigilates.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "一场百万人的“云考试”，无人监考";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; a million-person "cloud test" with no one at & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "“尽管这是件很慢的事情，但我们也将保持更强的耐心与坚守。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "Although this was a slow matter, we will remain more patient and firm.
”";。
";;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
