最高厅局级，这些干部在防疫一线被“火线”提拔。
The top bureau level, these cadres in the epidemic prevention front by the "line of fire."
张笛扬。
Zhang Deyang.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲山西省第四批支援湖北医疗队的队员在出征仪式上宣誓（2月9日摄）。
Members of the 4th Support Hubei Medical Team in Shanxi Province swore an oath at the ceremony (February 9).
（新华社记者 曹阳/图）全文共2601字，阅读大约需要6分钟。
The full text, 2,601 words, takes about six minutes to read.
2019年，杨涛就有被提拔的机会，但因学历问题在预审中未获通过，此次属于“突破学历限制予以破格重用”。
In 2019, Yang Tao had a chance to be promoted, but failed the pre-trial examination because of his academic qualifications.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 张笛扬责任编辑 | 钱昊平带队援鄂一个月后，山西医疗队队长张晓清拟升任正厅级的山西省卫健委党组副书记。
Zhang Deyang, director of Shanxi Medical Team, was promoted to deputy secretary of Shanxi Provincial Fitness Committee a month after being led by Qian Haoping, the company's first unauthorized start at Southern Weekend.
2020年3月1日，山西省委组织部发布了任前公示。
March 1, 2020, Shanxi Provincial Committee of the Organization Department issued a pre-public announcement.
这次提拔距离她上一次职务调整仅过了7个月，当时，张晓清从山西省人民医院党委书记转任山西省计划生育协会专职副会长（副厅级）。
The promotion came just seven months after her last job change, when Zhang Xiaoqing was transferred from the Communist Party secretary of Shanxi Provincial People's Hospital to full-time vice-president of the Shanxi Provincial Family Planning Association.
抵达湖北后，山西省医疗队负责对口支援仙桃、天门、潜江三市。
After arriving in Hubei Province, Shanxi Medical Team is responsible for supporting three cities: Xiantao, Tianmen and Qianjiang.
援鄂期间，张晓清曾通过视频连线，向山西省委书记楼阳生汇报工作情况，还接受了央视《新闻联播》节目组的采访。
During the aid period, Zhang Xiaoqing reported to the Secretary of the Provincial Committee of Shanxi Province, Lu Yangsheng, via video link.
像山西一样，疫情防控期间，多地“火线”提拔了在一线“表现突出”的干部，有的还是破格提拔。
Like Shanxi, during the period of epidemic prevention and control, many "lines of fire" promoted cadres in the first line of "outstanding performance," some or exceptional promotion.
“火线”提拔的依据是，中组部在防疫期间发出通知，要求注重在防控一线考察识别领导班子和领导干部，要大胆提拔使用表现突出、堪当重任的优秀干部。
"Fire line" promotion is based on, in the course of epidemic prevention notice issued by the Central Group Department, request that attention be paid to identifying leading teams and cadres in the prevention and control first-line inspection, and boldly promoting the use of outstanding cadres with outstanding performance and responsibility.
此后，多个省份据此相继出台文件，落实中组部的通知。
Since then, a number of provinces have issued documents to implement the notification of the Ministry.
1“火线”提拔多名厅局级张晓清不是第一个被提拔的厅级干部。
"Fire line" to promote a number of bureau-level Zhang Xiaoqing is not the first department-level cadres to be promoted.
疫情发生后，第一个因防控表现突出被提拔的厅局级干部出现在天津。
After the outbreak, the first department-level cadres to be promoted for outstanding performance in prevention and control appeared in Tianjin.
2月10日，天津市卫健委副主任张富霞晋升为一级巡视员，天津市发改委经济贸易处处长郭春辉拟任副局级领导职务。
February 10, Tianjin health committee deputy director Zhang Fuxia promotion to the first inspector, Tianjin Development and Reform Commission Director of Economic and Trade Guo Chunhui proposed to assume the leadership position of deputy bureau.
张富霞在疫情防控中主要负责组织开展疫情处置、流行病学调查等工作，而天津市的流行病学调查在近期广受赞誉。
Zhang Fuxia in the prevention and control of the epidemic mainly responsible for the organization of epidemic treatment, epidemiological investigation and other work, and Tianjin City epidemiological investigation has been widely praised recently.
因为对天津宝坻百货大楼的流行病学调查，天津市疾控中心传染病预防控制室主任张颖被网友称为“天津福尔摩斯”。
Zhang Ying, director of the infectious disease prevention and control room at Tianjin CDC, was called Tianjin Holmes by netizens for her epidemiological investigation of Baodi department store in Tianjin.
2020年1月底，宝坻百货大楼出现聚集性疫情，致万人隔离，但前三例找不到任何流行病学上的关联性，张颖和她的团队从第五例确诊病例身上找到了答案。
By the end of January 2020, Baodi had an urban sprawl, isolating tens of thousands of people, but the first three cases could not find any epidemiological link, and Zhang and her team found an answer in a fifth confirmed case.
随后，张颖也被“火线”提拔，出任天津市疾控中心副主任。
Subsequently, Zhang Ying was also promoted by the "fire line," as Tianjin CDC Deputy Director.
此次疫情中，天津提拔干部可谓是“大手笔”，2月28日，天津又提拔了5名厅级干部。
In this outbreak, Tianjin selected cadres can be described as "big money," February 28, Tianjin promoted another five department-level cadres.
被提拔者都在疫情防控中表现突出，其中，天津市药监局局长王栩冬拟晋升为一级巡视员，天津市农委总兽医师李志荣拟任市政府工作部门副职，天津市红桥区住建委主任于鹏洲，拟任有关区区委常委。
Among them, Wang Lifong, director of Tianjin Pharmaceutical Supervision Bureau, is to be promoted to first-class inspector, Li Zhirong, chief veterinarian of Tianjin Municipal Agricultural Committee, is proposed to be deputy director of the municipal government work department, and Yu Pengzhou, director of the Hongqiao District Housing Committee of Tianjin, is the relevant District Standing Committee.
另两人来自公安系统，天津市公安局出入境管理总队总队长任锋、公交治安分局局长都获任市政府部门副局级领导职务。
Two other people from the public security system, Tianjin Municipal Public Security Bureau, the Chief Executive Officer Ren Feng, the Commissioner of Public Security Branch have been appointed deputy director of municipal departments leadership.
提拔厅级干部的还有江苏。
Jiangsu was also promoted to the rank of director.
2月17日，江苏省委组织部发布任前公示，担任江苏支援湖北医疗队总领队的邱泽森，拟由省卫健委二级巡视员转任省卫健委副主任。
February 17, Jiangsu Provincial Organizing Committee issued a public announcement, as Jiangsu support Hubei Medical Team leader Qiu Zesen, proposed by the Provincial Health Commission Inspector II to the vice-director of provincial health-care committee.
任前公示专门提到，邱泽森在新冠肺炎疫情防控工作中表现突出。
Prior to the announcement specifically mentioned that Qiu Zesen in the new crown pneumonia prevention and control work outstanding.
大年初一晚上7点22分，邱泽森带领首批江苏医疗队出发驰援湖北，定点支援武汉市江夏区人民医院。
On New Year's Day at 7: 22 p.m., Qiu Zesen led the first Jiangsu Medical Team to help Hubei, targeted support Wuhan Jiangxia District People's Hospital.
邱泽森接受媒体采访时表示，江苏的医疗队帮助对口医院提高了治愈率。
In an interview with the media, Qiu Zesen said Jiangsu's medical team helped the hospital to improve the cure rate.
包括邱泽森在内，江苏省委组织部这次一口气提拔重用了5人，其中包括江苏对口支援黄石前方指挥部副总指挥吴红辉，吴红辉是江苏卫健委健康促进处处长，因在疫情防控工作中表现突出，拟任江苏省卫健委二级巡视员。
Wu Honghui, vice-commander of Jiangsu Provincial Health Promotion Bureau, is the head of the Health Promotion Department of the Jiangsu Healthy People's Health Commission. He will be the second-class inspector of the Jiangsu Health Protection Commission for his outstanding performance in disease control.
除了邱泽森和吴红辉外，江苏省卫健委副主任李少冬晋升为省卫健委一级巡视员，江苏省公安厅副厅长尚建荣拟任省公安厅常务副厅长，江苏省公安厅副厅长、南京市公安局局长常和平被推荐提名为南京市副市长人选。
In addition to Qiu Zesen and Wu Honghui, Li Shaodong, vice-director of Jiangsu Wei Bodyguard Commission, Shang Jianrong, vice-director of Jiangsu Provincial Public Security Bureau, vice-director of Jiangsu Province Public Security Bureau and head of Nanjing Public Security Bureau, Chang Ping was recommended for nomination as vice-mayor of Nanjing.
在抗击疫情前线获提拔的也有不少湖北本地干部。
There are also many local cadres in Hubei who have been promoted in the front line of fighting the epidemic.
2月24日，教育部任命王伟担任华中科技大学常务副校长。
On February 24, the Ministry of Education appointed Wang Wei as permanent vice-president of HUST.
此前，王伟是华中科技大学附属同济医院院长。
Prior to this, Wang Wei is attached to Huazhong University of Science and Technology Hospital.
华中科技大学附属同济医院地处武汉，是当地规模最大、医疗水平最高的医院之一。
The Tongji Hospital attached to Huazhong University of Science and Technology is located in Wuhan and is one of the largest and most medical hospitals in the region.
为抗击疫情，同济医院主动改造了两个院区，收治了两千多名重症、危重症患者。
In order to combat the epidemic, Tongji Hospital has taken the initiative to reform two hospital districts, admitted more than 2,000 critically ill and critically ill patients.
2基层干部居多，涌现不少“90后”像江苏、天津这样“火线”提拔厅局级干部的并不多见。
2 grass-roots cadres are in the majority, many "90 after" such as Jiangsu, Tianjin, such as the "fire line" to promote bureau-level cadres are rare.
疫情防控中被“火线”提拔的多为基层干部，以乡镇街道干部和基层民警居多。
In the prevention and control of epidemic diseases by the "fire line" to promote the grass-roots cadres, to the township streets cadres and grass-roots police mostly.
被媒体称为全国首位“火线”提拔的干部是湖北省咸宁市崇阳县天城镇的罗浩。
Known by the media as the country's first "fire line" promotion cadres are Xianning City Xiangning County Tianyuan City Luo Hao.
疫情发生后，当时还是四级主任科员的他，主要负责隔离观察人员的转运工作，自1月20日起的6天6夜里，他共护送三十多人到医院进行集中观察。
After the outbreak, he, who was then the fourth-level chief officer, was primarily responsible for quarantining observation personnel, escorting more than 30 people to the hospital for intensive observation during the night of 6 days and 6 nights from 20 January.
每天早上6点钟出门，次日凌晨一两点钟才回办公室休息。
I leave home at 6 am every morning and don't go back to my office until one or two in the morning.
2月初，罗浩被任命为天城镇党委委员。
In early February, Luo was appointed as a member of the Tian-cheng Party Committee.
在防控主战场武汉，截至2月21日，全市已提拔20名防控一线的基层干部。
In the main battlefield Wuhan, as of February 21, the city has promoted 20 first-line prevention and control cadres.
“90后”女孩饶玥便是其中之一。
"After 90" girl is one of them.
饶玥原是武汉市江汉区民族街道党建办副主任，此次被提拔为街道党建办主任。
Raoyuan was originally the deputy director of the ethnic streets party building in Wuhan, and was promoted to the post of district party chief.
疫情防控期间，饶玥组织完成街道辖区5500余户、1万余人的情况排查。
During the period of prevention and control of the epidemic, Rao organizations completed a survey of more than 5,500 families and 10,000 people in street areas.
在随后开展的综合协调和病人转运工作中，她所在街道每天都能完成确诊病人转送入院、疑似病人转送隔离点的“双清零”任务。
In the integrated coordination and patient transit efforts that followed, her street was able to complete daily the "double clean-up" task of transferring confirmed patients to hospital and suspected patients to isolation points.
被提拔的“90后”为数不少，湖北省兴山县“90后”民警李希萌被火线提拔为南阳派出所副所长。
Not a few of them were promoted, and Li Xi Meng, a 90-year-old police officer in Xingshan county, Hubei Province, was promoted to vice-director of Nanyang police station.
苏州姑苏区双塔街道里河社区党委副书记胡晨被提拔为长岛社区党委书记，他也是一名“90后”。
Hu Chen, deputy secretary of the Lihe Community Party Committee in Suzhou's Shuangpu district, was promoted to the post of secretary of the Long Island Community Party Committee.
江苏常熟“90后”社区工作者袁静，2020年1月22日刚被任命为虞山街道报本社区党总支副书记，2月9日就被提拔为社区党总支书记。
Yuan Jing, a community worker in Changshu, Jiangsu Province, was appointed deputy general secretary of the party's main branch on January 22, 2020, and was promoted to the post of general secretary of the community party on February 9.
3破格提拔者，多为学历、党龄不够苏州姑苏区的徐晓晨也因防疫工作表现突出，得到了“火线”提拔的机会，被任命为白湾街道玉景湾社区的党支部书记。
3, most of the graduates, the party age is not enough Suzhou Gusu area Xu Xiaochen because of outstanding epidemic prevention work, get "fire line" promotion opportunities, was appointed as the white bay street Yujing Bay Community Party branch secretary.
与一般被提拔者不同，徐晓晨属“破格”提拔，因为她的党龄还未满1年。
Unlike the general promoted, Xu Xiaochen was promoted "exceptionally" because she was less than a year old.
据当地媒体报道，防疫期间，徐晓晨将两个孩子送到爷爷奶奶家，带头日夜奋战在抗疫一线，利用自己开发的一款微信小程序在社区发布信息、收集需求，组建了信息排查、门岗管控、服务保障等工作小组。
According to local media reports, Xu Xiaochen took the two children to her grandparents' house during the epidemic prevention period, taking the lead day and night in the battle against the epidemic, using a micro-program developed by himself to release information in the community, collect demand, set up information screening, door control, service guarantee and other working groups.
疫情防控期间像徐晓晨这样被破格提拔的干部已有多位，巧合的是，目前被媒体关注到的都是女性。
During the period of epidemic prevention and control, such as Xu Xiaochen has been promoted a number of cadres, coincidentally, the media attention is now on women.
2月20日，吉林省长白山党工委组织部破格提拔杨涛为长白山疾控中心副主任。
Feb. 20, Jilin Province Changbaishan party working committee organization department break through promotion Yang Tao as the Changbai Mountain CDC deputy director.
51岁的杨涛原为长白山疾控中心科员，疫情防控期间，她从1月23日起就没有休息过，在本组另一名同事骨折住院后独自承担起全组流行病学调查的工作。
Yang Tao, a 51-year-old former CDC officer at Changbai Mountain, has not had a break since January 23 during the outbreak, and has taken on the entire epidemiological investigation alone after another member of her team fractured in hospital.
2019年，杨涛就有被提拔的机会，但因学历问题在预审中未获通过，此次属于“突破学历限制予以破格重用”。
In 2019, Yang Tao had a chance to be promoted, but failed the pre-trial examination because of his academic qualifications.
比杨涛年轻两岁的莫新艳，也突破了学历短板获得提拔。
Yang Tao than two years younger Mo Xinyan, also broke through the academic short board to be promoted.
莫新艳是广西富川县疾控中心艾防科主任，在当地负责对疑似病例、确诊病例进行流行病学调查和密切接触者登记。
Mo Xinyan is director of Eiffo division of Fuchuan County CDC in Guangxi. He is in charge of epidemiological investigation and close contact registration of suspected cases and confirmed cases.
莫新艳此次被提拔担任八级管理岗位领导职务。
Mo Xinyan was promoted to an eight-level management position.
只有在职大专学历的莫新艳本不符合提拔条件，富川县因此在任前公示上专门备注：“无大学学历，因在疫情防控一线表现特别优秀破格提拔，已报上级组织部门同意。
Only in-service post-secondary education Mo Xinyan did not meet the conditions for promotion, Fuchuan County public notice on the special remarks: "No college education, because of the excellent performance in disease prevention and control, has been reported to higher-level organizations departments for approval.
”此前，管辖富川的贺州市专门出台了文件，提出对在疫情防控中“表现特别突出、作出重大贡献的可破格提拔使用” 。
Previously, the city of Ho Zhou, which oversees Fuchuan, had issued a special document proposing "exceptional promotion for those who have made outstanding contributions to the prevention and control of the epidemic."
戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
Click the image below to continue reading the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
最高厅局级，这些干部在防疫一线被“火线”提拔。
The top bureau level, these cadres in the epidemic prevention front by the "line of fire."
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "最高厅局级，这些干部在防疫一线被“火线”提拔";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at the front line.
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
