解惑“复阳”：没测准？复发了？还有传染性吗？。
Confused "Fuyang": Not accurate? Recurrence? Is there any infectivity?
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
The following article comes from 健言。
The following article comes from good words.
Author 黄思卓 李玉楼。
Author Huang Szedo Li Yu Building.
健言。
Good words.
“健言”关注我们每一个人赖以生存的食品、药品、医疗大健康话题，并带来最深度、最有价值的解读。
"Jianyu" focuses on the food, medicines, and health issues on which each of us depends, and brings the deepest and most valuable interpretations.
线下“健言沙龙”追求建设性想法，倡导跨界、多元、碰撞、共识的交流准则，务求新思维、新视野、新观点，立志打造中国食药健康领域最具影响力的青年智库。
In pursuit of constructive ideas, the "talkative salon" advocates cross-boundary, multi-faceted, collision and consensus exchange guidelines, seeking new ideas, perspectives and perspectives to create the most influential youth think tank in the field of Chinese medicine and health.
。
.
▲2020年2月13日，在湖北省新型冠状病毒核酸检测的服务机构，检测人员对采集来的样本进行标本信息核对。
On February 13, 2020, in Hubei Province, the new coronavirus nucleic acid testing services, the test staff collected samples to carry out sample information checks.
（新华社/图）全文共4874字，阅读大约需要10分钟。
The full text is 4,874 words and takes about 10 minutes to read.
核酸检测阴性并非患者可以出院的唯一要求。
Negative nucleic acid testing is not the only requirement for patients to be discharged.
在诊疗方案中，出院标准还包括体温、肺部影像等临床指标。
In the diagnosis and treatment plan, discharge standards also include body temperature, lung imaging and other clinical indicators.
实验室技术指标不能取代临床表现，出院与否，判断应由最了解病人临床病情的医生结合实验室检测结果来下。
Lab technique index cannot replace clinical manifestation, discharge or not, judge by the doctor that understands patient clinical condition most combine laboratory test result to come next.
“从广东全省的随访来看，目前没有一个核酸阳转病人肺部情况是加重的。
"From the follow-up in Guangdong Province, none of the patients with nucleic acid transposition have an increased lung condition.
”在采样方法上，上海和广州加入了肛拭子核酸检测。
In terms of sampling methods, Shanghai and Guangzhou have added anal nucleic acid tests.
国家卫健委3月4日公布的第七版诊疗方案加入了血清学检测。
The seventh edition of the program, released March 4 by the National Health Commission, includes serological testing.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 黄思卓 李玉楼南方周末实习生 于北辰 杨习得责任编辑 | 汪韬没想到，在江苏徐州，出院患者的欢迎仪式却使得更多人隔离。
This article began at Southern Weekend without authorization to reprint & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
2020年2月24日，出院并隔离14天后，新冠病毒感染患者王某和家人回家了，邻居和街道举办了“浓浓邻里情”的欢迎仪式。
After being discharged and quarantined for 14 days on February 24, 2020, Wang and his family returned home, neighbors and streets held a "thick neighborhood" welcoming ceremony.
然而26日，二人的核酸复查结果却是一人阳性一人弱阳性，再次入院隔离观察，小区单元楼又重新封闭，且小区65人需要居家隔离。
However, on the 26th, the nucleic acid review turned out to be a positive person, re-admission isolation observation, cell block re-closed, and 65 people need to be isolated at home.
截至3月2日，中国内地累计出院患者已达到4.7万余例。
As of March 2, more than 47,000 patients had been discharged from the mainland.
根据国家卫健委发布的第六版诊疗方案，出院患者被建议在出院之后第二周和第四周到医院复查。
According to the sixth edition of the program issued by the National Health Commission, discharged patients are advised to review the hospital in the second and fourth weeks after discharge.
复查后核酸检测“复阳”的消息不断出现。
After the review of the nucleic acid detection "Fuyang" news continued to emerge.
距离江苏千里之外的广东，省疾控中心副主任宋铁在2月25日的新闻发布会上介绍，广东省出院患者中有14%的人“复阳”。
In Guangdong, thousands of miles away from Jiangsu Province, 14 percent of patients discharged from Guangdong province have "Fuyang," Song Tiejie, deputy director of the provincial CDC, told a news conference on Feb. 25.
3月4日发布的第七版诊疗方案也特意提到复阳的问题，要加强健康管理和隔离。
The seventh edition of the programme, released on 4 March, also specifically addressed the issue of Fuyang, strengthening health management and isolation.
这些消息让人恐慌：复阳意味着治愈者重新得病吗？他们还有传染性吗？新冠病毒没完没了了吗？出院时也许就没治好、没测准脱氧核糖核酸（DNA）和核糖核酸（RNA）是绝大部分生物独一无二的“身份证”，新冠病毒的“身份证”是一段RNA。
The news is scary: Does Fuyang mean the healer gets sick again? Are they still contagious? Is the new crown virus endless? Perhaps untreated, undetected DNA and RNA are the unique "identity cards" of most organisms, and the new crown virus "identity card" is a piece of RNA.
如同刑侦部门可以通过DNA找到陈年旧案中的犯罪嫌疑人，检测人员可以通过咽拭子或是肛拭子，从患者的喉咙深处或肛门中采样，送到实验室检测，来确定患者是否感染新冠病毒。
Just as the criminal investigation department can find a criminal suspect in an old case through DNA, the examiner can take samples from deep in the throat or anus of the patient, either by swabbing or anal swabs, and send them to a laboratory for testing to determine whether the patient is infected with the new crown virus.
因此，核酸检测结果呈现的阴阳性是患者入院和出院的标准之一。
Therefore, the yin-yang character of nucleic acid test results is one of the criteria of admission and discharge.
但核酸检测的精确度与采集人员本身、采样质量、试剂盒型号等诸多因素相关。
But the accuracy of nucleic acid detection is related to the collector himself, sample quality, sample size and so on.
以咽拭子为例，采集人员需要将拭子（一根白色长条棉签）深入到患者的咽喉深处，提取分泌物。
With swabs, for example, collectors need to take a swab (a long white cotton swab) deep into the patient's throat to extract secretions.
采集过程中，患者可能随时因为这种不适感而引发咳嗽、呕吐，对本就身穿防护服行动略不便的采集人员来说，更是增加了采集难度。
During the collection process, patients may always cause cough and vomiting due to this discomfort, which makes it more difficult for the collector, who is slightly inconvenient to wear protective clothing.
在2月初核酸检测的精确度就受到过质疑。
The accuracy of nucleic acid testing was questioned in early February.
南方周末曾报道过，湖北省早期存在假阴性病人——已经有了严重的临床症状，却因为核酸检测呈阴性而不能就诊。
Southern Weekend reported the presence of false-negative patients in early Hubei province - who already had severe clinical symptoms but were unable to see a doctor because they tested negative for nucleic acid.
因此，武汉大学中南医院影像科副主任张笑春曾公开质疑仅用核酸确诊的可靠性。
Therefore, Zhang Xiaochun, deputy director of the imaging department of Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital, has publicly questioned the reliability of nucleic acid diagnosis alone.
之后，第五版诊疗方案即规定将CT影像作为临床诊断标准（仅限于湖北省）。
After that, the fifth edition of the diagnosis and treatment plan provides for CT imaging as a clinical diagnostic standard (only in Hubei Province).
基于此，所谓“复阳”也可能是因为采样的误差，诊疗方案中的出院标准为连续两次核酸检测为阴性，不少医生发现有的患者测第三次，甚至第四次才测出来为阳性。
Based on this, the so-called "Fuyang" may also be due to sampling errors, the discharge criteria in the diagnosis and treatment programme were negative for two consecutive nucleic acid tests, and many doctors found that some patients tested positive for the third or even the fourth time.
实际上，核酸检测阴性并非患者可以出院的唯一要求。
In fact, negative nucleic acid testing is not the only requirement for patients to be discharged from hospital.
在诊疗方案中，出院标准还包括体温、肺部影像等临床指标。
In the diagnosis and treatment plan, discharge standards also include body temperature, lung imaging and other clinical indicators.
据日本广播协会（NHK）报道，1月29日一名女导游在大阪一家医院确诊感染新冠肺炎，身体好转后2月1日出院，2月6日有咳嗽症状，进行核酸检测结果为阴性。
According to the Japan Broadcasting Association (NHK), a female tourist guide was diagnosed with pneumonia in a Osaka hospital on January 29. She was discharged from the hospital on February 1 and developed cough symptoms on February 6.
19日喉咙仍然不适，26日再次进行核酸检测为阳性。
19 days still uncomfortable throat, 26 again nucleic acid test positive.
日本媒体透露的信息不多，如果这位日本导游在出院前仍有咳嗽，参照中国诊疗方案出院标准中的“呼吸道症状明显好转”，可能达不到出院标准。
If the Japanese guide still coughs before being discharged from hospital, he may not meet the discharge criteria, referring to the "marked improvement in respiratory symptoms" in the discharge criteria of the Chinese diagnostic and treatment programme.
这样的“复阳”或许是个伪命题——出院的时候就没治好，只是因为试纸没测准而提前出院了。
Such "Fuyang" may be a false proposition - not cured when discharged from the hospital, only because the test paper was not accurate and early discharged.
香港还没有统一制定出院标准的官方指南。
Hong Kong does not yet have official guidelines for setting discharge standards.
香港大学生物医学院教授金冬雁向南方周末记者介绍，主要的医学判断均由临床医师来决定，对是否能出院比较谨慎，因此出院的人数并不是很多。
Jin Dongyan, a professor at the University of Hong Kong's School of Biology, told Southern Weekend that the main medical decisions were made by clinicians.
“没有一个核酸阳转病人肺部情况是加重的”美国马萨诸塞州立大学病毒学家卢山告诉南方周末记者，官方指引只能作为参考，实验室技术指标不能取代临床表现，出院与否，判断应由最了解病人临床病情的医生结合实验室检测结果来下。
"None of the patients with nucleic acid transduction had an increased lung condition," virologist Lu Shan of Massachusetts State University told Southern Weekend. "Official guidelines can only be used as a reference. Laboratory specifications cannot replace clinical manifestations.
第六版诊疗方案中，呼吸道症状和肺部影像学的要求是“明显好转”。
In the sixth edition of the diagnosis and treatment plan, respiratory symptoms and lung imaging requirements are "significantly improved."
广州市第八人民医院感染病中心主任蔡卫平对南方周末记者表示，为了方便一线医生较为准确地衡量与判断，广东省将之进一步细化为肺部炎症影像改变至少恢复50%等。
Cai Weiping, director of the Infection Centre of the 8th People's Hospital in Guangzhou, told Southern Weekend that in order to make it easier for first-line doctors to measure and judge accurately, Guangdong province has further refined it into at least 50 percent of changes in inflammatory images of the lungs.
除了核酸检测复阳，患者病情是否复发也要观察临床症状和肺部CT。
In addition to nucleic acid detection Fuyang, patients with relapse should also observe clinical symptoms and pulmonary CT.
“从广东全省的随访来看，目前没有一个核酸阳转病人肺部情况是加重的。
"From the follow-up in Guangdong Province, none of the patients with nucleic acid transposition have an increased lung condition.
”蔡卫平介绍，他们团队的随访结果是，出院的复阳患者中，42%的人肺部情况是有吸收好转，42%的人没变化。
Cai said the team's follow-up showed that 42 percent of patients discharged from the hospital had seen an improvement in lung function, while 42 percent had no change.
没有变化意味着这些患者“跟出院相比没有加重，但是吸收的会慢一点”，其余人“出院的时候肺部炎症已经完全吸收，现在也是干干净净的”。
There was no change, meaning the patients "did not get any worse than they were discharged, but they absorbed a little more slowly," and the rest "got out of the hospital with inflammation of the lungs completely absorbed and now clean."
还有人担心，复阳是不是意味着人体重新感染了变异的病毒。
There are also concerns about whether Fuyang means the body is re-infected with the mutated virus.
2月24日，中国—世界卫生组织新冠肺炎联合专家考察组在新闻发布会上表示，通过对不同地点分离出的104株新冠病毒株进行全基因组测序，证实同源性达99.9%，提示病毒尚未发生明显的变异。
A team of experts from the China-WHO New Crown Pneumonia mission told a news conference on Feb. 24 that the genome-wide sequencing of 104 new crown virus strains isolated from different sites had confirmed homology to 99.9 percent, suggesting that the virus had not changed significantly.
3月4日，有中国科研团队发表论文称新冠病毒已产生了149个突变点，并演化出了两个亚型。
On March 4, a team of Chinese researchers published a paper saying the virus had produced 149 mutations and had evolved two subtypes.
3月2日，巴西研究人员对巴西的两个病例体内的病毒进行了基因测序，与中国发现的病毒也有所不同。
On March 2, Brazilian researchers sequenced viruses from two cases in Brazil, unlike those found in China.
但目前新冠病毒的突变情况，还未有业内共识。
But at present, there is no industry consensus on the mutation of the new crown virus.
在病毒没有变异的情况下，金冬雁认为，除了极少数免疫缺陷或者免疫能力较弱的人可能持续携带病毒之外，绝大部分患者能够依靠自身的免疫系统彻底清除新冠病毒。
In the absence of a virus mutation, the wild goose believes that the vast majority of patients can rely on their own immune systems to eradicate the new crown virus, with the exception of a very small number of immune defects or those with weak immunity.
他还认为“患者间歇性排毒”的事情不太可能发生，“在其他急性病毒性传染病里面也没有发生过。
He added that "intermittent detoxification of patients" was unlikely to occur, "nor had it occurred in other acute viral infections."
新冠病毒要么被清除了，要么藏在呼吸道深处，用鼻咽拭子测不出来”。
The new crown virus is either removed or hidden deep in the respiratory tract and cannot be measured with a nasopharynx.
不断调整的诊疗方案，或可加入肛拭子随着出院患者的增多，结合一线医生的建议，诊疗方案也在不断改进，加强了复诊的要求。
With the increasing number of patients discharged from the hospital, and with the advice of front-line doctors, the diagnostic and treatment programme is being improved, and the need for revisits has been strengthened.
1月22日印发的第三版诊疗方案中，出院的标准包括“连续两次呼吸道病原核酸检测阴性（采样时间间隔至少1天）”，但没有对出院患者作出继续隔离或者需要复诊的明确要求。
The criteria for discharge from the third edition of the programme, issued on 22 January, included "negative RNA testing for two successive respiratory pathogens (at least one day apart)," but there was no explicit requirement for continued isolation or re-examination of patients discharged from hospital.
出院患者复阳的消息，可以追溯到1月31日。
The news of patients discharged from hospital in Fuyang can be traced back to January 31.
在武汉大学人民医院呼吸与危重症医学科官方微信上，副主任医师张旃撰文指出，采用更加敏感的方法检测符合出院标准的2名患者，核酸结果为阳性。
In an official letter from Wuhan University's People's Hospital, Office of Respiratory and Critical Medicine, Chandrake Chang, deputy chief physician, noted that two patients who met the discharge criteria were tested for positive nucleic acid results using a more sensitive method.
于是，张旃所在医院听取了一线医生的意见，在两次核酸检测阴性之外，加上了“继续隔离2周以上”。
Chandramas hospital listened to the first-line doctors, and, in addition to the two negative nucleic acid tests, Chandrag added, "Stay isolated for more than two weeks."
此后，出院患者的复诊要求逐步加强。
Since then, patients discharged from the hospital of the request for re-diagnosis gradually strengthened.
2月17日，国家卫健委办公厅《关于做好新型冠状病毒肺炎出院患者跟踪随访工作的通知》要求，必要时，在出院2-4周后复诊复查新冠病毒病原学检测。
On February 17, the office of the State Council for Health Care and Hygiene issued a notice on follow-up and follow-up work for patients discharged from hospital with new coronavirus pneumonia.
两天后，国家卫健委发布的第六版诊疗方案建议出院继续隔离，在出院后第2周、第4周到医院随访、复诊，但尚未明确复诊涉及哪些具体项目，这一要求也只是建议，并非强制。
Two days later, the sixth edition of the consultation plan issued by the National Fitness and Health Commission recommended continued isolation and follow-up in the second and fourth weeks after discharge, but it was not clear what specific items were involved.
南方周末记者搜集到的成都、天津复阳案例，正是在第六版发布后，于出院后第二周的复诊中发现的。
Southern Weekend reporter collected Chengdu, Tianjin Fuyang case, is in the release of the sixth edition, in the second week after the re-consultation found.
3月4日，国家卫健委发布了诊疗方案试行第七版，出院标准仍为4条，第4条更新为“痰、鼻咽拭子等”呼吸道标本核酸检测连续两次阴性。
On 4 March, the National Board of Health issued the seventh trial version of the diagnostic and therapeutic programme, with discharge criteria remaining at 4, and article 4 being updated to read "sputum, nasopharyngeal swab, etc." RNA testing was negative twice in a row.
同日发布的国家卫健委解读文件强调，鉴于有少数出院患者出现核酸检测复检阳性的问题，为加强对出院患者的健康管理和隔离，将应继续进行“14天的自我健康状况监测”改为“14天的隔离管理和健康状况监测”。
The National Board of Health Interpretation document issued on the same day stressed that in order to strengthen health management and isolation of discharged patients, the 14-day self-health surveillance should continue to be replaced by the 14-day isolation management and health status monitoring, in view of the small number of patients discharged from the hospital who were tested positive for nucleic acid.
除了继续隔离观察和复诊，张旃在接受《中国新闻周刊》采访时还建议诊疗标准从连续测两次改为三次。
In addition to continuing to observe and reexamine in isolation, Zhang Jie in an interview with China News Weekly also suggested changing the standard of consultation from two consecutive tests to three.
在采样方法上，上海和广州则加入了肛拭子核酸检测。
In the sampling method, Shanghai and Guangzhou added anal swab nucleic acid test.
一般来说，肛拭子采集的部位在肛门内部2-3厘米处。
Generally speaking, the area collected from anus is 2-3 cm inside the anus.
如果肛拭子核酸检测为阳性，就意味着患者粪便样本里存在病毒或者病毒碎片。
If the anal swab is positive, it means the patient has a virus or virus fragment in the fecal sample.
“发病早期患者以鼻咽拭子阳性为主，到了病程后期，许多人出现了肛拭子阳性的情况。
"Early onset of patients with positive nasopharyngeal swab, to the late stage of the disease, many people have positive anal swab situation.
”蔡卫平说。
'he said.
对比其他冠状病毒的研究来看，这一发现并不令金冬雁感到意外，“特别是SARS，的确有一部分人存在粪便里面带有病毒、肛拭子呈阳性的情况。
Compared to other studies on coronavirus, the finding did not surprise wild geese. "Especially SARS, some people do have cases of positive anal swabbing virus in their feces.
”金冬雁认为，这种情况的出现和肠道的特殊环境有关，即肠道主要依靠黏膜免疫来对抗和清除新冠病毒。
According to geese, the condition is related to the intestinal environment, which relies mainly on mucosal immunity to fight and clear the new crown virus.
具体来讲，发挥作用的主要不是IgM（人体受抗原刺激后最早出现的抗体）、IgG（血清中抗体占比最大的抗体），而是IgA（由黏膜分泌并在黏膜免疫中发挥最重要作用的抗体），因此肠道完全清除病毒会更慢，需要持续一段时间。
Specifically, it is not IgM (the earliest antibody in humans after antigen stimulation), IgG (the antibody with the largest proportion of antibodies in the serum), but IgA (an antibody secreted by the mucous membrane and playing the most important role in mucosal immunity), so complete elimination of the virus in the intestine is slower and takes some time.
“有的人这种状态甚至要持续一个月。
"Some people go on like this for a month.
根据过往香港和美国对SARS病毒的研究，肠道SARS病毒排出量会逐渐下降，但在23和26天后仍然比较高，其中一个时间最长的甚至达到69天。
Previous studies of the SARS virus in Hong Kong and the United States have shown a gradual decrease in enteric SARS virus excretion, but it remains high after 23 and 26 days, with one of the longest periods reaching 69 days.
”金冬雁说。
"said the goose.
3月3日，上海市公共卫生临床中心党委书记卢洪洲教授接受《中国新闻周刊》采访时建议，新的诊疗方案可以考虑肛拭子核酸阳性的问题。
In an interview with China News Weekly on March 3, Professor Lu Hongzhou, party secretary of the Shanghai Public Health Clinical Center, suggested that the problem of anal nucleic acid-positive be considered in the new diagnostic and treatment plan.
他还表示，由于上海的出院标准较国家的诊疗方案更加严格，到目前为止，上海出院患者未出现复阳情况。
He also said that so far, patients discharged from the hospital in Shanghai have not experienced reyang because the discharge standards in Shanghai are more stringent than those in the state.
“复阳”者是否具有传染性？蔡卫平注意到，此次新冠病人核酸阳性转阴性的时间较长，即使前期肛拭子已经两次呈阴性，也无法完全杜绝后期肛拭子核酸检测“复阳”现象。
Whether Fuyang is contagious? Cai noted that patients with the new crown had a longer Nucleic acid-positive turn-negative time, and even if the anal wipe had been negative twice in the previous period, it was not possible to completely eliminate the phenomenon of "fuyang" detection of anal wipes at a later stage.
2月29日，复旦大学附属华山医院感染科主任张文宏接受媒体群访时说，出院病人“复阳”了不奇怪，重点是有没有再传染别人。
In a media interview Feb. 29, Zhang Wenhong, director of infection department at Fudan University's Huashan Hospital, said it was not surprising that patients had been discharged from hospital.
“从目前来看，全国还没有复阳感染者又传染给他人的情况。
"At present, there is no case of reinfection in the country.
”在2月25日召开的广州市政府新闻发布会上，广州市第八人民医院感染病中心ICU主任李粤平也透露，在出院病例的随访中，发现复阳病人13人，对104个密切接触者进行检测，结果全是阴性。
At a press conference on Feb. 25, Li Yeping, director of the ICU at the Infection Centre of Guangzhou's Eighth People's Hospital, told a news conference.
蔡卫平告诉南方周末记者，目前的新冠核酸检测是一个定性的检测，而非定量。
Cai Weiping told Southern Weekend reporter that the current Nucleic acid test is a qualitative test, not a quantitative one.
他观察到，随访患者的阳性检测结果普遍处于阴性和阳性之间的“灰色地带”，或称“可疑阳性”。
He observed that positive test results in follow-up patients were generally in the "grey zone," or "suspicious positive," between negative and positive.
“这说明这些‘复阳’患者病毒量不多或者不是完整的病毒。
"This suggests that these 'Fuyang' patients do not have high viral loads or complete viruses.
”蔡卫平解释。
Cai Weiping explained.
2月27日,权威医学期刊《美国医学会杂志》（JAMA）发布了一篇来自武汉大学中南医院研究团队的文章，1月1日到2月15日之间，陆续在中南医院接受诊治的4位症状轻微到中度的医务人员感染者，也出现了复阳现象。
On February 27, the leading medical journal, the Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA), published an article by a research team from Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital. Between January 1 and February 15, four patients with mild to moderate symptoms who were treated at the hospital also had Fuyang symptoms.
“一定比例的痊愈患者（recoveredpatients）或许仍是病毒携带者（viruscarriers）。
"A percentage of recovered patients may still be carriers of the virus."
”文章这样写道。
"said the article.
该文的通讯作者徐海波是武汉大学中南医院影像科主任、中华放射学会神经学专委会副主任委员。
Xu Haibo is the Director of Imaging Department of Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital and Deputy Chairman of the Neurology Committee of the Chinese Radiological Society.
2月29日，他向南方周末记者解释，病毒携带者指的是病毒寄生人体内不发病或抵抗力低下时才发病，至于是否成为传染者还要观察研究论证，“现在急于下任何结论都不科学”。
On 29 February, he explained to Southern Weekend reporters that carriers of the virus were infected only when they were not sick or resistant to infection, and that there was a need to observe and demonstrate that "it is not scientific to draw any conclusions now."
不过，文章显示，尽管4位感染者出院后和家庭成员有直接接触，但家庭成员均没有被感染。
However, the article showed that although the four infected persons had direct contact with family members after discharge, none of the family members were infected.
“如果一个确诊新冠病毒病人真正是临床上好了，他的医生完全同意他是好了，就没有必要担忧他还是否会传染病毒的问题。
"If a person diagnosed with the new crown virus is really clinically good, his doctor fully agrees that he is OK, there is no need to worry about whether he will still have the virus.
”卢山认为。
"Luo Shan thinks.
保险起见，为了观察核酸复阳患者的传染性，各地对出院患者还是采取了继续隔离观察的措施。
To be on the safe side, in order to observe the infectivity of patients with reyang nucleic acids, patients discharged from the hospital were observed in isolation.
蔡卫平表示，如果当地医疗条件允许，出院患者会集中安排在另一家医院进行观察，原因是医院有特殊处理的排污系统，可将传染风险降到最低。
If local medical conditions permit, patients discharged from the hospital will be concentrated in another hospital for observation because the hospital has a specially treated sewage system that minimizes the risk of infection, Cai said.
可检测抗体帮助医生判断患者是否可出院蔡卫平是亲身经历过SARS的老将，是当年最早提出SARS不是由衣原体引起的传染病的专家之一，感染过SARS的他在2013年还去查过一次抗体，结果显示抗体仍存在体内保护着他。
Testable antibodies help doctors determine whether patients can be discharged from the hospital Cai Weiping is a veteran of SARS, was one of the first experts to propose SARS is not caused by chlamydia, he infected with SARS in 2013 also checked an antibody, the antibodies still exist to protect him.
为了使检测更加精确，金冬雁建议，抗体试剂若量产后，可使用抗体试剂帮助医生判断患者是否达到出院标准。
To make the test more accurate, the goose suggests that the antibody reagent, if produced in bulk, can use antibody reagents to help doctors determine whether the patient meets discharge criteria.
因为患者若处在感染后期和恢复期，则体内相应的抗体含量较高，试剂可以较为精确地测出。
Because the patient is in the late stage of infection and convalescent period, the corresponding antibody content is high, the reagent can be measured more accurately.
较于核酸检测的扩增、荧光等一系列步骤，抗体的检测更为直接。
Compared with the amplification and fluorescence of nucleic acid detection, antibody detection is more direct.
采样也更为简单，抽血即可。
Sampling is also simpler and can be taken with blood.
3月4日公布的第七版诊疗方案也加入了血清学检测。
Serological testing was also included in the seventh edition of the diagnostic programme, which was published on 4 March.
国家卫健委的解读是，因为新型冠状病毒特异性IgM抗体多在发病3-5天后阳性，IgG抗体滴度恢复期较急性期有4倍及以上增高。
The interpretation of the National Health Commission is that, because the new coronavirus-specific IgM antibody is positive after 3-5 days, IgG antibody titration recovery period is 4 times higher than that of the acute phase.
对于呈阳性的人，也不必过度恐慌。
There is no need to panic too much about people who are positive.
蔡卫平提到，接触野生动物较多的工作人员如果去检测一些病毒抗体，也能发现其实阳性率较高，这意味着一些病毒曾进入过他们体内，但他们既没有致病也没有传染别人。
Cai said workers who had been exposed to wild animals were also able to detect higher positive rates if they tested for antibodies to the virus, meaning that some viruses had entered their bodies but did not infect or infect others.
卢山直言，在检测技术没有完全质控、没有第三方独立认证，许多病人有关资料也不完善的情况下，现在谈论的所谓阴阳性检测结果需慎重斟酌。
Lu said the so-called Yin and Yang testing results need to be carefully weighed in the absence of complete quality control, independent third-party certification, and incomplete information about many patients.
“我感觉冠状病毒每一次出现好像都不断在适应自然界和适应人体。
"I feel like the coronavirus is constantly adapting to nature and to the human body every time it comes up.
”在蔡卫平看来，SARS是冠状病毒中“比较笨”的一员，在自然界中传不了几代就基本消失了，无法适应这个环境。
"According to Cai, SARS was one of the coronavirus's" more stupid "members, and within a few generations of being passed down in nature, they could not adapt to the environment.
可是“升级版”冠状病毒中东呼吸综合征（MERS）自首次暴发以来，一直时有出现，此次新冠病毒致病性强、传播能力强，而且免疫系统对它的识别能力也比以前要弱。
But the "upgraded version" of the coronavirus, the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS), has been around since the first outbreak, with the new coronavirus being highly pathogenic, spreading, and the immune system less able to recognize it.
蔡卫平担忧，未来冠状病毒的威胁或许比这次新冠病毒更大，因此一些前瞻性的监测必不可少。
Cai expressed concern that the future threat of coronavirus may be greater than this one, so some forward-looking surveillance is essential.
换言之，要不断监测冠状病毒在自然界的一些变化，如有发现某些病毒发生了变异，能够和人体某个受体结合致病，就有可能导致大范围的疫情发生，科研和医疗卫生机构必须要做好相应的准备。
In other words, it is necessary to constantly monitor the nature of the coronavirus. If it is found that certain viruses have mutated so that they can bind to one of the body's receptors, it could lead to a large-scale outbreak.
（南方周末记者王伟凯对本文亦有帮助）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
(Southern Weekend reporter Wang Weikai is also helpful to this article) poke the picture below to continue reading the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
解惑“复阳”：没测准？复发了？还有传染性吗？。
Confused "Fuyang": Not accurate? Recurrence? Is there any infectivity?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "解惑“复阳”：没测准？复发了？还有传染性吗？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "新冠病毒没完没了了吗？";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
