五万治愈者的劫后余生：“和死神握过手，就没那么恐慌”。
Fifty thousand Healers' Lives: "Shake hands with death, and it's not that scary."
谭畅。
Tan Chang.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲2020年3月1日，武汉客厅方舱医院的治愈者出院，离开时全身消毒，并被送去隔离点继续观察14天。
On March 1, 2020, Wuhan living room hospital of the cure hospital discharged from the hospital, leaving disinfection, and was sent to the isolation point to continue observation for 14 days.
（南方周末记者翁洹/图）全文共4754字，阅读大约需要10分钟。
(Southern Weekend Journalist Hun Huan / Gu) The full text is 4754 words and it takes about 10 minutes to read.
“生病不是我的错，何况我的病已经好了。
'Sickness is not my fault, and I have recovered from it.
”保安畏惧的眼神刺伤了万春晖，但他不打算隐瞒自己的治愈者身份。
The security guard's frightened eyes hurt Wan Chunhui, but he was not trying to hide his status as a healer.
来电的是一位病友家属，家属拜托骆非打打气。
The caller was a family member of a sick friend who asked Locke to cheer up.
“你的话比医生管用，你能痊愈出院，本身就给了他们信心。
"What you said worked better than the doctors did. You got well and got out of the hospital, giving them confidence.
”骆非的主治医生也这么叮嘱。
So did Locke's attending physician.
贾娜出去买菜，在空无一人的江边邂逅大片卷积云。
Jana went out to buy vegetables, in the empty river encountered a large volume of cumulus clouds.
她发现，自己变得更容易被美景打动，哪怕这美景不在远方，就在自己家门口。
She discovered that she was more easily touched by the beauty, even when it was not far away, right in front of her own home.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 谭畅南方周末实习生 宋思静 李佩云责任编辑 | 何海宁“终于重见天日了。
This article began at Southern Weekend without authorization to reproduce & # 160; & # 45; South Weekend reporter Tan Chang Southern Weekend Intern Song Sijing Li Pei-yun. & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
”2020年3月1日下午，李泉用一条情绪昂扬的朋友圈消息，宣告痊愈出院，开始了为期14天的隔离观察生活。
On the afternoon of March 1, 2020, Li Quan was discharged from hospital with news of an emotional circle of friends and began a 14-day quarantine.
不过，22天前，他的岳母在感染新冠病毒后撒手人寰——他不能写在朋友圈，也不能告知还在方舱医院养病的妻子，“我怕她一个人接受不了，从轻症恶化成重症”。
Twenty-two days ago, however, his mother-in-law died after contracting the new crown virus - he could not write about it in his circle of friends or tell his wife, who was still recovering in the cabin hospital, "I'm afraid she can't take it all alone and go from mild to severe."
这是大疫情阴霾下的一个普通武汉家庭的命运，有人离去，有人痊愈，还有人在治疗。
It was the fate of an ordinary Wuhan family in the haze of a pandemic, with people leaving, some recovering and others being treated.
截至3月4日12点，全国累计确诊80422人，累计死亡2984人，累计治愈49923人，每一个数字背后，都积聚了太多难以言说的酸甜苦辣。
By 12 o'clock on March 4, a total of 80,422 people had been diagnosed and 2,984 people had died, and 4,9923 people had been cured.
李泉独自咀嚼着目睹亲人离世的哀恸与无助，生死定格在元宵节那一天：120将岳母送到了医院，几小时后，殡仪馆来车拉走了遗体，而李泉住进了这家医院。
Li Quan chewed up the dead relatives and watched helplessly as he died. On the Lantern Festival, his mother-in-law was taken to the hospital. A few hours later, the funeral home came to take the body away and Li Quan went to the hospital.
此前两人因找不到床位一直往返医院打针。
The two men had been hospitalized for lack of beds.
待妻子痊愈，二人相聚，那一日的幸与不幸该如何诉说？和李泉一样，这近五万名治愈者，他们的血液中或许永远流淌着新冠病毒刺激产生的抗体，他们的记忆中或许永远埋藏着这一场疫病遗留的创伤。
Like Li Quan, the nearly 50,000 healers whose blood may forever be filled with antibodies inspired by the new crown virus may forever harbor the scars of the epidemic.
“有的人会很快忘却痛苦，用暂时的放下支持自己进入当下的生活。
"Some people will quickly forget their pain and temporarily let go of their support and move into the present life.
有的人因为亲人离世而自己活着，会有幸存者的羞愧和内疚。
Some people will have the shame and guilt of the survivors because their loved ones have died and are alive.
”湖北省心理咨询师协会常务秘书长杜洺君告诉南方周末记者，不同人面对创伤有截然不同的处理方式，“这没有好坏之分”。
Hubei Psychological Association permanent secretary-general Du Zengjun told Southern Weekend reporter that different people have different ways to deal with trauma, "there is no good or bad."
如何重启愈后生活，每一名治愈者都面临抉择。
How to restart later life, each healer is faced with a choice.
这是他们的劫后余生。
It's their life.
1“生病不是我的错”走出武汉火神山医院那一天，万春晖只带走了一张出院证明，其他个人物品因为无法消毒，都留在病房里。
"Illness is not my fault" walked out of Wuhan on the day of fire god hospital, Wan Chunhui only took a discharge certificate, other personal items because can not disinfect, stay in the ward.
出院证明仅薄薄一页纸，打印了万春晖的个人信息、住院情况和离院建议。
The discharge certificate is only a thin one-page paper, printed Wan Chunhui's personal information, hospitalization and leaving the hospital recommendations.
病区主任在纸上签名，再盖上火神山医院医疗专用章。
The sick area director signed the paper and covered it with the special medical seal of Mount Huoshen Hospital.
“回头我要把它裱起来。
"Then I shall mount it.
”2月27日，万春晖在电话里郑重地说。
February 27, Wan Chunhui in the telephone solemnly said.
那天是万春晖出院后居家隔离的第八天，他有些怀念火神山医院的伙食——午饭、晚饭都是三菜一汤，而一个人在家只能每顿下点饺子面条。
It was the eighth day of isolation since Wan Chunhui was discharged from the hospital. He missed the food at the Mount Fire Hospital - three-course meals and one-soup dinners, while a person could only order dumplings at home.
雷神山医院的出院证明制作精良，令万春晖很羡慕。
Lei Shenshan Hospital discharge certificate well-made, so Wan Chunhui very envious.
（采访对象供图/图）万春晖可能是火神山医院最出名的病人。
Man Chunhui may be the most famous patient at Mount Fire Hospital.
在这家医院正式收治新冠肺炎患者的第一天，《解放军报》记者拍摄到万春晖不坐轮椅、步行入院的镜头，他还冲镜头竖起大拇指。
On the first day of the hospital's official admission to the hospital, the PLA reporter shot Wan Chunhui's wheelchair-free, walk-to-hospital walk and thumbs up.
住院的日子里，万春晖用视频和文字直播战“疫”故事，收获外号“火神山眼镜大叔”。
Hospital days, Wan Chunhui with video and text live battle "epidemic" story, harvest nickname "Fire god mountain glasses uncle."
疫情来临前，44岁的万春晖经营着一个财经类自媒体账号，只有区区两百多个粉丝。
Before the outbreak, 44-year-old Wan Chunhui ran a financial business from the media accounts, only over 200 fans.
而现在，这个账号已经拥粉22万，账号名称下有两条个人认证信息，“优质财经领域创作者”排第二，“武汉新冠肺炎治愈患者”排第一。
Now, the account number has 220,000, account name under two personal authentication information, "quality financial creator" ranked second, "Wuhan New Crown Pneumonia cure patients" ranked first.
“网红”患者出院，社区派车接万春晖回家隔离。
"Net red" patients discharged from the hospital, the community car to take Wan Chunhui home isolation.
车到小区门口，司机想和万春晖合影留念，于是把手机递给小区保安。
Car to the door, the driver and Wan Chunhui to take a picture, so the cell phone to the residential security.
没想到，保安拒绝帮忙，“他说没戴手套，怕碰了我们的手机就会传染”。
Unexpectedly, the security guard refused to help, "He said he did not wear gloves, afraid to touch our mobile phone will infect."
“生病不是我的错，何况我的病已经好了。
'Sickness is not my fault, and I have recovered from it.
”保安畏惧的眼神刺伤了万春晖，但他不打算隐瞒自己的治愈者身份。
The security guard's frightened eyes hurt Wan Chunhui, but he was not trying to hide his status as a healer.
一则他的自拍视频上过央视，“脸也露了，真名也打上了，藏也藏不住”。
One of his own video on CCTV, "the face also exposed, the real name also hit, hiding can not hide."
再则，自从十多年前挣了点钱，万春晖就不再上班：“我没有同事的压力，邻居支不支持我也不在乎。
Moreover, since earning a little money more than a decade ago, Wan Chunhui no longer works: "I have no peer pressure, neighbors support me do not care.
”家住湖北黄冈的骆非不能不在乎邻居的看法。
Locke, who lives in Huanggang, Huanggang, Hubei, cannot ignore his neighbors "views.
他在有“黄冈版小汤山”之称的大别山区域医疗中心住院时，家门口的高音喇叭经常广播，提醒业主小区里已有8人确诊。
When he was hospitalized at the Dabie Mountain Regional Medical Center, known as the Huanggang Edition of Xiaotangshan, a loudspeaker in front of his home often announced that eight people had been diagnosed in the neighborhood.
妻子听着心烦，骆非只能在电话里安慰：“就让他们嚷吧。
When his wife was upset, Locke could only console her by saying, "Let them do it.
”业主们并不清楚病人出自哪一户，于是在微信群中各种猜测、打探。
Owners do not know which family the patient comes from, so they speculate and inquire in the microphone group.
骆非看在眼里，默不作声。
Locke was silent in his eyes.
出院后，骆非被集中隔离在一所技校里14天，2月下旬隔离期满。
After his discharge from the hospital, Locke was placed in isolation in a technical school for 14 days, ending in isolation in late February.
回家那天，他提前给社区派的司机打电话，请求司机晚上来接他，“晚上不起眼”。
On the day he got home, he called the driver of the community in advance and asked the driver to pick him up at night.
司机没掌握好时间，傍晚太阳还没下山，已经把骆非送到了小区门口。
The driver did not master the time, the evening sun has not yet come down, has sent Locke to the community door.
骆非赶紧让司机停车，自己走进小区——“我们这儿也‘封城’了，一般的车不让上路。
Locke quickly stopped the driver and walked into the neighborhood. "We've closed the city here, too. Ordinary cars are off the road.
邻居看你坐车进来，会怀疑你不大正常。
Neighbors will suspect that you are not yourself when you drive in.
”只要躲过邻居，回到家，大门一关，骆非的心情还是舒畅不少。
As long as he dodged his neighbor and went home, Locke was in a much more relaxed mood.
“在外面（隔离），哪怕病好了也感觉自己是病人。
"To be outside [in isolation], even when I'm well, to feel sick.
”虽然出于谨慎，骆非在家还是整天戴着口罩，但看着6岁的女儿在眼前晃来晃去，他重新找回了为人父的骄傲。
Cautiously, Locke wore a mask all day, but seeing his six-year-old daughter dangling from side to side, Locke regained his father's pride.
全职太太蒋玉从武汉回湖北一个小县城的公婆家过年。
Full-time wife Jiang Yu from Wuhan back to Hubei a small county's mother-in-law's home New Year.
丈夫确诊后，蒋玉在1月底短暂地发过烧，退烧后再无任何病症，但核酸检测连续十几天都“阳得很果断”。
After her husband's diagnosis, Jiang Yu briefly had a fever at the end of January. He had no symptoms after the fever, but the nucleic acid test was "very positive" for ten days.
医生看她活蹦乱跳不像病人，不敢给她打针吃药，也不敢放她出院。
The doctor saw that she was not a patient, did not dare to give her the injection medicine, did not dare to let her out of the hospital.
“我天天研究自己出了什么问题，快搞成神经病了。
"I study what's wrong with me every day, and I'm going to be insane.
”2月底，核酸检测终于转阴，蒋玉回到公婆家，再不愿意出门，“外面的人看见我也尴尬，我就别让人家为难”。
At the end of February, when the nucleic acid test finally turned cloudy, Jiang Yu returned to her mother-in-law's house and refused to go out.
丈夫在武汉一家食品公司工作，那里忌讳员工生病。
The husband works for a food company in Wuhan, where employees are not allowed to get sick.
蒋玉心想，等疫情结束返回武汉，不能让周围人知道夫妻俩感染过新冠病毒。
Jiang thought that when he returned to Wuhan after the outbreak, he could not let anyone around him know that the couple had contracted the new crown virus.
2“你的话比医生管用”出院后，骆非接到过一个陌生的电话。
After being discharged from hospital, Locke received a strange phone call.
来电的是同病房一位病友的家属，家属拜托他，给病友打打气。
The caller is the family member of a sick patient in the same ward. His family asks him to cheer up his sick friend.
骆非是病房里最先出院的，另外两位病友都比他年长。
Locke was the first to be discharged from the ward, and the other two were older than him.
其中一位病友已经在医院里住了一个月，心中愁闷，连后事都向家人交代好了。
One of the patients had been in the hospital for a month and was so depressed that he told his family all about it.
“他家庭条件非常好。
"He has a very good family.
我在里面时他还开玩笑，说自己要是挂了，多不划算啊。
When I was in there, he joked about how bad it would be if he died.
”“你的话比医生管用，你能痊愈出院，本身就给了他们信心。
"Your words count for more than doctors, and your ability to get well and get out of the hospital gives them confidence.
”骆非的主治医生也这么叮嘱。
So did Locke's attending physician.
对于新冠肺炎这样一种陌生而又来势汹汹的传染病，“每个人都希望身边有一个看得见、摸得着的康复例子。
For a strange and menacing infectious disease like Newcastle Pneumonia, "everyone wants to have a visible, palpable example of recovery.
”另一名治愈者邵胜强说，他愿意成为这个例证。
Shao Shengqiang, another healer, said he was willing to be an example.
邵胜强1月初发病，当时疫情信息并不明朗。
Shao Shengqiang disease in early January, when the epidemic information is unclear.
在经过23天的治疗后，2月3日，邵胜强成为武汉市红十字会医院第一位出院的治愈者，甚至有当天不上班的医护人员赶回来和他合影。
After 23 days of treatment, Shao Shengqiang became the first healer to be discharged from Wuhan Red Cross Hospital on February 3.
邵胜强回到家，开始以治愈者的身份做志愿咨询，至今已持续一个月。
Shao Shengqiang returned home and began voluntary counseling as a healer, which has lasted for a month now.
每天总有二三十人找到他，身体抱恙的想向他确认自己是否得病，已确诊的轻症患者则问他如何能好。
Every day twenty or thirty people came to him, feeling as if he were ill, and the diagnosed light patient asked him how he was doing.
“我总是告诉他们，这是自限性疾病，轻症靠免疫系统能好起来。
"I always told them it was self-limited and that the immune system was good for mild cases.
”邵胜强反复劝咨询者保持好心态，“我这么胖，身体状况比你们差。
Shao Shengqiang repeatedly advised counselors to keep a good attitude. "I am so fat and in poorer health than you.
我都能治好，你们肯定能挺过来。
I can fix this. You're gonna make it.
”至于重症患者，前来咨询的往往是他们的家属。
As for the seriously ill, it is often their families who come for advice.
“病人在医院里，那就是听医生的。
"The patient is in the hospital, and that's what the doctor says.
我能做的其实就是让家属平复下来，给他们信心。
All I can do is calm the family down and give them confidence.
”万春晖在火神山医院观察到一种现象：病区里一些年轻人整日刷手机，浏览各种疫情信息，因此忧心忡忡，病情越来越重。
Wan Chunhui observed a phenomenon at the Mount Huo hospital where young people in the sick area spent their days wiping their mobile phones and browsing through information about the epidemic, worrying and getting worse.
反而是年纪大一些的，天天看电视，心平气和，康复得更快。
On the contrary, older people watch TV every day, calm, recovery faster.
“得这个病的人其实非常脆弱，心理上的压力非常大。
"People with this condition are actually very vulnerable and psychologically very stressed.
”万春晖眼见一位病人因为打不通家里电话，心力交瘁，自己拔了氧气管，“第二天人就没了”。
Wan Chunhui saw a patient because he couldn't get a home call and was exhausted. "The next day he was gone."
这也是万春晖坚持直播自己战“疫”经历的原因之一——当大多数人都因一种新病原体惶惶不安时，生病的人反而获得了某种权威性。
This is one reason why Wan Chunhui insists on broadcasting his own version of the epidemic - when most people are alarmed by a new pathogen, sick people gain some sort of authority.
“虽然我经常说，我不是医生，很多问题不该问我。
"Although I often say I'm not a doctor, I shouldn't be asked many questions.
但我把自己战胜病毒的经历让人们看见，人们就多了一点真实的希望。
But my own experience in fighting the virus has shown us that there is a little more hope.
”3“我还蛮怀念方舱的”2月27日，短视频平台用户苹果（网名）开了一场直播。
"I missed the cabin too," a live broadcast of Apple, the user of the short video platform, took place on February 27.
从洪山体育馆方舱医院出院后，他在家里住了几天，社区通知他必须集中隔离。
After being discharged from the Fang Ngau Hospital of Hongshan Stadium, he stayed at home for several days and was informed by the community that he had to be concentrated in isolation.
那是集中隔离的第一个夜晚。
It was the first night of intensive isolation.
直播从晚上八点开始，持续3小时，观众最多时来了90人——只有他在方舱医院开直播的一半。
The live broadcast, which began at 8 p.m. and lasted three hours, was attended by up to 90 people - only half of what he had broadcast live from the cabin hospital.
他以前不刷短视频，在方舱医院闲极无聊，拍了一条同病区阿姨们唱《亲爱的战友》的视频，上传后迅速收获1.8万个点赞。
He did not brush short video, in the cabin hospital idle extremely boring, took a video with aunts in the sick area "Dear comrade-in-arms," upload quickly harvest 18,000 praise.
“我还蛮怀念方舱的。
"I missed the cabin quite a bit.
那里人多，护士小姐姐跑来跑去，病友互相聊天。
There are many people, nurse sister running around, sick friends chat with each other.
我走以后他们活动更多了。
They have more activities since I left.
”接受南方周末记者采访时，苹果对自己出院后方舱医院就举办了“方舱好声音”歌唱比赛耿耿于怀：“我要是在，估计最佳男歌手没得跑。
In an interview with Southern Weekend reporter, Apple took issue with the "Good Voices" singing contest at Fang Cao Hospital after he was discharged from the hospital: "I guess the best male singer didn't get away.
”第二天直播时，他把这件事又念叨了一遍。
"The next day, when it was broadcast live, he read the story over again.
许多从方舱医院走出去的治愈者，在独自隔离时感到些许失落。
Many of the healers who walked out of the cabin hospital felt a bit lost in isolation.
他们在方舱医院体验到久违的群体生活——食药统一供应，人与人之间充满温情。
They experience a long time in the cabin hospital group life - a unified supply of medicine, people are full of warmth.
之前有人感叹“住得不想走了”，还上了微博热搜。
Before someone lamented that "do not want to live to leave", but also on the Weibo hot search.
苹果出院后，会把仍在方舱医院的病友发来的视频上传网络。
After Apple is discharged from the hospital, it will still be in the cabin hospital from the video upload network.
一条网友留言让他印象深刻：“要不是知道你们得病，看视频里面这么热闹，真觉得我们在家的才是被隔离。
He was impressed by a message from a netizen: "If I hadn't known you were sick and watched the video so lively, I really think we were isolated at home.
”随着出院的治愈者越来越多，3月3日，武汉市硚口武体方舱医院率先“休舱”，网友们纷纷点赞祝贺。
With more and more patients being discharged from hospital, on March 3, Zhengkou Wuji Square Hospital in Wuhan City took the lead in "cabin suspension," with netizens congratulating each other.
相比苹果，余昌平则已是“网红”医生。
Compared with Apple, Yu Changping is already a "net red" doctor.
这名武汉大学人民医院呼吸内科危重症专家，是第一个被感染的湖北新型冠状病毒防治专家组成员。
This expert in respiratory department of Wuhan University People's Hospital is the first member of a new coronavirus prevention and treatment team in Hubei province.
隔离治疗期间，他录制了一系列短视频科普新冠病毒，风格幽默。
During isolation treatment, he recorded a series of short video science popularis virus, style humor.
2月29日是余昌平痊愈后的第四天。
February 29 is the fourth day after Yu Changping recovered.
吃过晚饭，他在医院病房里接受南方周末记者视频采访。
After dinner, he gave a video interview to Southern Weekend reporter in the hospital ward.
武汉大学人民医院有一百多名医护感染，医院专门给治愈的医护开辟了隔离病房。
Wuhan University People's Hospital has more than 100 medical infections, the hospital has opened a special isolation room for cured medical care.
“一百多（同事）感染，里面像我心态这么好的，也就一两个。
"More than a hundred people (co-workers) are infected with something as good as my mentality, just one or two.
很多护士不懂，还是很怕死的。
Many nurses do not understand, or very afraid of death.
”余昌平颇有些骄傲地打趣说，不是所有被感染的医护人员，都能拍出这么浅白有趣的科普视频。
Not all infected healthcare professionals can make such a simple and interesting popular science video, Yu joked with some pride.
他摘下口罩，指了指上排门牙的一个小豁口——那是六七年前他值班时，被其他医生的病人打出来的。
He took off his mask and pointed to a small gap in his front teeth that had been typed by other doctors on duty six or seven years ago.
“我可能适合干这个（拍视频）。
"I might be good for this (video).
”余昌平打算，疫情结束后如果有时间，继续拍短视频改善医患关系。
"Yu Changping intends to continue to take short videos to improve doctor-patient relations if there is time after the outbreak.
“大家说这段时间医患关系特别好，那以后呢？”4“能救一个就扯平，救两个就赚了”“和死神握过手，‘死’过一次，就没那么恐慌。
The doctor-patient relationship is said to be particularly good these days, so what happens after thatIf you can save one, you can even save two, but you can earn both.
我不仅是对这个病有了抗体，这辈子的人生都像有了‘抗体’。
Not only did I have an antibody to the disease, but my life was like an 'antibody'.
”原本身材较胖的邵胜强体重减了30斤。
The fatter Shao Shengqiang lost 30 pounds.
大病初愈，刚三十而立的他感觉自己“通透”了，看开了。
The disease is beginning to heal, just 30 and he felt that he "transparent", read open.
“不能埋怨命运对你不公平，因为它对大家都不公平。
"You cannot complain that fate has been unfair to you, because it has been unfair to everyone.
”受疫情影响，邵胜强创业的公司没了生意，账面上只出不进，一个月要给员工发几十万元工资。
"Affected by the epidemic, Shao Shengqiang start-up of the company lost business, only on the book, a month to pay hundreds of thousands of yuan wages.
放在以前，事业心强的邵胜强会愁得睡不着觉。
In the past, the career-minded Shao Shengqiang will be too worried to sleep.
而现在，他宽慰自己“大难不死，必有后福”。
Now, he comforts himself that "good times never die, good luck always comes."
万春晖发觉，自己的人生观在火神山医院里发生了巨大改变。
Wan Chunhui found that his outlook on life in the fire god mountain hospital has undergone tremendous changes.
“以前我真不是多管闲事的人。
"I used to be no nosy.
现在看见那么多医护冒死来救人，来救我，我必须得做点什么。
Now that so many paramedics are dying to save me, I have to do something.
如果他们中有一个人因为救我而感染，我心态会崩溃的。
If one of them gets infected by saving me, my mind will break down.
”他寻思，太专业的事自己也干不来，好在火神山医院缺的就是干杂活的人。
"He thought, too professional to do his own thing, but the shortage of fire god mountain hospital is to do chores.
因为清洁工难进入，医护须承担许多杂务。
Because cleaners are difficult to access, medical care has to take on many chores.
万春晖帮着清扫垃圾，修理物件，给其他病人的呼吸机加水……“反正我已经是阳性了，不怕病毒，这些事就可以我来干。
Wan Chunhui helped to clean up the garbage, fix things, and add water to other patients' respirators... "I'm already positive and I'm not afraid of the virus, so I can do it."
我多干点，医护人员就能少干点，多休息一会儿，抵抗力也强一点。
If I work harder, the paramedics will be able to work less, have more rest, and have better resistance.
”现在，苹果有个念想，等集中隔离结束，他要第一时间去捐献血浆：“能抽多少是多少。
Now, Apple had the thought that when the concentration separation was over, he would be the first to donate blood plasma: "How much do you smoke?
能救一个人就扯平了，救两个人就赚了。
If you can save one person, you're even. You save two.
”在方舱医院时，他家里两只猫得到了小区陌生人的救助，这场遭遇令他感受到了互助感恩的力量。
In the cabin hospital, his two cats received help from strangers in the neighborhood, and the experience helped him feel grateful for each other.
早在2月13日，武汉市金银潭医院院长张定宇就呼吁康复期患者捐献血浆。
As early as February 13, Wuhan gold and silver pool hospital director Zhang Dingyu called on convalescent patients to donate plasma.
最新消息是，国家卫健委、中国红十字会总会和中央军委后勤保障部卫生局三部门将共同颁发“爱心捐献荣誉证书”，褒奖血浆捐献者。
The latest news is that the National Fitness Commission, the Chinese Herald Association and the Health Bureau of the Central Military Commission's Logistics and Support Department will jointly present a "Certificate of Honor in Charity Donation" to commend donors of plasma.
武汉大学人民医院急诊科护士贾娜捐献了300毫升血浆。
Jana, an emergency nurse at Wuhan University People's Hospital, donated 300 ml of plasma.
她在1月24日除夕那天确诊，在2月4日立春那天自愈，中间居家隔离了11天。
She was diagnosed on New Year's Eve on January 24, and recovered on February 4, the day she was separated from her family for 11 days.
康复后，她已重上一线。
When she recovered, she was back on the track.
2月19日献血浆那天，提前得到消息的媒体记者在人民医院爱心献血屋外蹲守。
February 19 plasma day, the early news media reporters in the People's Hospital love outside the blood donation house squatting.
屋内墙上贴着鼓励捐献血浆的倡议书：“没有一个冬天不可逾越，没有一个春天不会来临。
An initiative to encourage the donation of plasma was put up on the walls of the house. "No winter is insurmountable, no spring does not come.
”参加工作第一年的贾娜头一回看见这么多记者，心里紧张，第一次测体温37.4℃，偏高。
Jana, who was in her first year of work, was nervous to see so many reporters and had her first temperature take 37.4 degrees Celsius, high.
“我当时心情好差啊，怕（血浆）献不成了，害这些记者白跑一趟。
"I was in such a bad mood that I was afraid the journalists would not be able to give up.
又怕是二次感染怎么办？”贾娜在外头站了一会儿，和直播的记者闲扯几句，进去再测一次体温，终于正常了。
What if it was a secondary infection? "Jana stood outside for a moment, chatting with the live reporter, went in to take another temperature, and finally recovered.
病愈后的一天傍晚，贾娜在空无一人的江边邂逅大片卷积云。
One evening after recovering from her illness, Jana met a huge cirrus cloud on the empty river.
（采访对象供图/图）站在贾娜的出租屋里，往窗外看是黄鹤楼，出门五分钟就能走到武汉长江大桥。
Standing in Jana's rental room, looking out the window at the Yellow Crane Tower, you can walk five minutes to the Wuhan Yangtze River Bridge.
病愈后的一天傍晚，她骑自行车出去买菜，在空无一人的江边邂逅大片卷积云。
One evening after her illness, she went out on a bike to buy vegetables and bumped into a huge convoluted cloud along the empty river.
“那天后来没有买到菜，但心情还是很好。
"I didn't get any food later that day, but I was in a good mood.
”贾娜发现，历经一场劫难，自己变得更容易被美景打动，哪怕这美景不在远方，就在自己家门口。
"Jana discovered that she had endured a ordeal and was more touched by the beauty, even when it was not far away, right in front of her own home.
（文中李泉、骆非、蒋玉为化名）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
(In the text Li Quan, Locke, Jiang Yu for the alias) poke the following picture to continue reading the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
五万治愈者的劫后余生：“和死神握过手，就没那么恐慌”。
Fifty thousand Healers' Lives: "Shake hands with death, and it's not that scary."
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "五万治愈者的劫后余生：“和死神握过手，就没那么恐慌”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
