谁有权公布疫情信息？。
Who has the right to release information about the epidemic?
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 财经E法。
The following article comes from the financial E method.
Author 俞琴。
Author Yu Qin.
财经E法。
Financial E-Law.
财经E法是脱胎于《财经》杂志的原创内容品牌，我们关注互联网行业中的法治、治理和伦理话题。
Finance E is an original content brand created by Caijing magazine. We focus on the rule of law, governance and ethics in the Internet industry.
。
.
政府的责任不仅仅是信息披露，更在于面对突发的公共卫生事件时，应对措施的组织、筹划是否到位文 |《财经》 俞琴 编辑 |朱弢“各方面对我们信息的披露是不满意的。
The government's responsibility isn't just about information disclosure. Rather, it's about how the response was organized and planned in the face of a public health emergency.
”1月27日下午，武汉市市长周先旺接受央视专访时坦承，在新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情中，武汉市有披露不及时的一面。
In an interview with CCTV on the afternoon of January 27, Wuhan Mayor Zhou Xianwang admitted that the city of Wuhan had been slow to disclose its new case of coronavirus pneumonia.
他解释称，“作为地方政府，我获得信息之后，授权之后才能披露。
"As a local government, I can only disclose information after I have obtained it," he explained.
”据国家卫健委最新消息，截至1月29日24时，国家卫健委共收到各省份累计报告确诊病例7711例，累计死亡病例170例，累计治愈出院病例124例，共有疑似病例12167例。
As of 2400 hours on January 29, the National Health Commission had received a total of 7,711 confirmed cases, 170 cumulative deaths and 124 cumulative cases of discharge, with a total of 12,167 suspected cases, according to the latest report from the National Fitness and Health Commission.
累计收到港、澳、台共通报25例确诊病例。
A total of 25 confirmed cases were reported from Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan.
有观点认为，及时发布权威、准确信息能缓解公众的焦虑情绪，引导公众积极理性的应对，同时消除公众疑虑，避免公众大规模恐慌。
The view was expressed that the timely publication of authoritative and accurate information could alleviate public anxiety and lead to a positive and rational response, while dispelling public misgivings and averting mass panic.
因此，官方若能及时公布疫情，必然会缩小疾病传播范围。
Therefore, if the official timely release of the epidemic, will inevitably reduce the spread of the disease.
那么，到底谁有权公布疫情？谁有权公布疫情信息？时间往前追溯，“武汉肺炎”首次官宣，距离武汉市首次出现新型冠状病毒肺炎感染者已过去23天，甚至更久。
So who has the right to announce the outbreak and who has the right to do so? Back in the past, Wuhan Pneumonia, the first official announcement, 23 days or more has passed since Wuhan first became infected with coronavirus pneumonia.
2019年12月30日，武汉市“不明原因肺炎”因两份网传的红头文件而进入公众视野。
On December 30, 2019, "Unexplained Pneumonia" in Wuhan city was brought into the public eye by two Web-based redhead files.
文件落款为武汉市卫生健康委员会医政医管处，主题为“报送不明原因肺炎救治情况”。
The document was signed by the Medical and Medical Administration Office of Wuhan Health Commission on the theme of "Report Unexplained Pneumonia Treatment."
文件显示，武汉市华南海鲜市场陆续出现不明原因肺炎病人，已发现27例病例，其中7例病情严重。
The documents showed that 27 cases of unknown pneumonia had been found in south China seafood market in Wuhan, 7 of which were serious.
次日，武汉市卫健委首次发布肺炎疫情的情况通报。
The next day, Wuhan city health committee issued the first pneumonia epidemic information.
同日上午，国家卫健委专家组抵达武汉，展开相关检测核实工作。
On the morning of the same day, the national health committee experts arrived in Wuhan to start the relevant testing and verification work.
根据武汉市卫健委的通报，最早出现症状的病例为2019年12月8日。
According to Wuhan Health Commission reported that the earliest symptoms of the case is December 8, 2019.
而近期的多项研究显示，这一日期或将更早。
Recent studies suggest that this date may be even earlier.
1月24日，武汉市金银潭医院胸外科主任医师黄朝林等人在《柳叶刀》在线发表的《2019年中国武汉新型冠状病毒感染者临床特征》一文指出，武汉金银潭医院收治的首个感染者发病日期可以追溯至2019年12月1日，且没有华南海鲜市场暴露史，家人也没出现发热和呼吸道症状；至2019年12月10日，才另有3人发病，其中两人同样也没有接触过华南海鲜市场。
According to Huang Chaolin, chief physician of thoracic surgery at Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital in Wuhan on January 24, 2019, the first case of infection in Wuhan can be traced back to December 1, 2019.
美国乔治敦大学传染病专家丹尼尔·露西在《科学》杂志网站上称，考虑到从感染到症状出现之间的时间差，那么第一例人类感染一定是2019年11月就发生了，也就是说，那时候病毒可能就已经静静地在人群中传播，直到12月末华南海鲜市场的聚集性爆发。
Given the time lag between infection and symptom onset, the first human infection must have occurred in November 2019, which means the virus may have spread quietly through the crowd until late December, when the South China seafood market began to congregate, said Daniel Lucy, an infectious diseases specialist at Georgetown University.
从疫情报告程序来看，“授权以后披露”确实有法可依。
From the point of view of epidemic report procedure, "authorized later disclosure" does have law to follow.
根据《传染病防治法》规定，国务院卫生行政部门定期公布全国传染病疫情信息。
According to the Law on the Prevention and Treatment of Infectious Diseases, the health administration department under the State Council regularly publishes nationwide epidemic information.
省、自治区、直辖市人民政府卫生行政部门定期公布本行政区域的传染病疫情信息。
The administrative departments of public health under the people's governments of provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities directly under the Central Government regularly publish epidemic information.
传染病暴发、流行时，国务院卫生行政部门负责向社会公布传染病疫情信息，并可以授权省、自治区、直辖市人民政府卫生行政部门向社会公布本行政区域的传染病疫情信息。
When an infectious disease outbreaks or epidemics occur, the health administrative department under the State Council shall be responsible for publishing information on infectious diseases to the public, and may authorize the health administration departments of the people's governments of provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities directly under the Central Government to release information to the public on infectious disease outbreaks in their respective administrative areas.
《突发公共卫生事件应急条例》第二十五条和《突发公共卫生事件与传染病疫情监测信息报告管理办法》第三十二条对传染病疫情信息公布主体也作出相同规定。
Article 25 of the Emergency Regulations for Public Health Emergencies and Article 32 of the Measures for the Reporting and Management of Surveillance Information on Public Health Emergencies and Infectious Diseases shall also make the same provisions for the subjects of information dissemination on infectious diseases.
也就是说，发布传染病信息的主体包括国务院卫生行政部门，以及被授权的省、自治区、直辖市卫生行政部门。
In other words, the subjects who release information on infectious diseases include the administrative department of public health under the State Council and the health administration departments of provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities directly under the Central Government.
北京市京都律师事务所律师李志广表示，依据行政区划分类，武汉市是副省级城市，行政区划类别为省辖市，并非省、自治区、直辖市，基于现行法律法规，武汉市的卫生行政部门不是疫情公布主体，因此，武汉市市长无权决定公布传染病疫情。
According to the classification of administrative divisions, Wuhan is a provincial municipality, not a provincial municipality, not a province, autonomous region or municipality directly under the Central Government.
李志广认为，疫情信息公布主体设置过高，加上前期上报程序冗长和低效，容易导致疫情信息公布迟滞。
Li Zhiguang believes that the disease information disclosure subject set too high, coupled with the early reporting process is long and inefficient, easy to cause the disease information release delay.
他建议，降低公布主体的门槛，比如，对《传染病防治法》中规定的甲类和采取甲类传染病预防控制措施的乙类传染病，可由市级卫生行政部门直接向社会公开疫情信息，同时报告上级卫生行政部门和国务院卫生行政部门，缩短疫情信息披露流程。
He suggested lowering the threshold for disclosure, for example for Class A infectious diseases under the Communicable Disease Prevention and Control Law and Class B infectious diseases for which prevention and control measures for category A infectious diseases could be disclosed directly to the public by the municipal health administration departments, while also reporting the epidemic information to the health administration authorities at higher levels and the health administration department under the State Council.
金华市疾病预防控制中心主任吴位新等人也曾撰文指出，当某地发生某种传染病暴发或流行，在当地造成一定影响，其严重性又不足以达到省级以上卫生行政部门公布，而当地民众又迫切需要了解疫情信息时，因当地卫生行政部门无权公布，这时的疫情信息便没有部门来公布。
Wu Zhenxin, director of the center for disease control and prevention in Jinhua city, also wrote that when an outbreak or epidemic occurs in a locality and the local impact is not serious enough to be announced by the health administration at or above the provincial level, the local health administration has no authority to publish information about the epidemic.
关于疫情信息披露问题，1月22日，国家卫健委应急办主任许树强在回答记者提问时表示，疫情发生后，国家卫健委指导武汉市卫健委于2019年12月31日和2020年1月3日、5日、9日发布了疫情和防控信息，同时根据疫情发展的变化，从1月11日起每日更新发布。
On January 22, Xu Shuqiang, director of the emergency response office of the National Health and Wellness Commission, said in response to questions from reporters that after the outbreak, the National Health Protection Commission instructed the Wuhan Health Care Commission to publish epidemic information and prevention and control information on December 31 2019 and January 3, 5 and 9 2020.
周先旺在接受央视采访时称，直到1月20日，国务院召开常务会议，确定新型冠状病毒肺炎作为乙类传染病，并进行甲类传染病的管理，而且要求属地负责后，武汉方面“工作就主动多了”。
"Until January 20, the State Council held an executive meeting to determine the new coronavirus pneumonia as a Class B infectious disease and to carry out the management of Class A infectious diseases," Zhou said in an interview with CCTV.
从公开信息来看，疫情发生后，武汉市具体是何时、如何上报疫情的，尚不可知。
From open information, it is not known when and how Wuhan city reported the outbreak after the outbreak.
疫情中的政府责任专钻行政法领域的北京才良律师事务所律师王令认为，政府的责任不仅仅是信息披露，更在于面对突发的公共卫生事件时，对整个事情的组织应对是否到位。
Wang Ling, a lawyer at Beijing Talent Law Firm specializing in administrative law, argues that the government's responsibility is not only to disclose information, but also to respond to public health emergencies.
武汉市政府应当按照预防和控制预案进行防治，控制疫情发展、传播，统筹协调，组织好救治人员，准备好救治场地，并确保口罩、防护服、蔬菜、粮食等必备物资准备到位。
The Wuhan Municipal Government shall, in accordance with the prevention and control plan, prevent and control the spread of the epidemic, coordinate and organize the treatment personnel, prepare the treatment sites and ensure that the necessary materials such as masks, protective clothing, vegetables and grain are in place.
关于疫情披露的问题，王令表示，若仅适用《传染病防治法》，确实该按照武汉市市长的说法，先报国家卫健委，再由国家卫健委授权湖北省卫健委来进行公布。
On the issue of epidemic disclosure, Wang said that if only the Law on the Prevention and Treatment of Infectious Diseases should be applied, it should be reported first to the State Health Commission and then authorized by the State Health Commission to make the announcement, according to the mayor of Wuhan.
但自2007年11月起施行的《突发事件应对法》规定，可以预警的自然灾害、事故灾难或者公共卫生事件即将发生或者发生的可能性增大时，县级以上地方各级人民政府应当根据有关法律、行政法规和国务院规定的权限和程序，发布相应级别的警报，决定并宣布有关地区进入预警期，同时向上一级人民政府报告，必要时可以越级上报，并向当地驻军和可能受到危害的毗邻或者相关地区的人民政府通报。
However, the Emergency Response Law, which has been in force since November 2007, stipulates that local people's governments at or above the county level shall, in accordance with the relevant laws, administrative regulations and the power and procedures prescribed by the State Council, issue warnings of appropriate levels, decide and declare the relevant areas to enter an early warning period.
进入预警期后，地方政府应当采取哪些措施？仅就信息公开方面，《突发事件应对法》明确，发布三级、四级警报，宣布进入预警期后，地方政府应“向社会公布反映突发事件信息的渠道，加强对突发事件发生、发展情况的监测、预报和预警工作”；发布一级、二级警报，宣布进入预警期后，地方政府应当“及时向社会发布有关采取特定措施避免或者减轻危害的建议、劝告”。
With regard to information disclosure only, the Emergency Response Law clearly stipulates that local governments should "publicize the channels for reporting emergency information to the public, and strengthen the monitoring, forecasting and early warning of the occurrence and development of emergencies."
王令表示，按照上述法律，在国家卫健委报请国务院批准甲类传染病管理前，湖北省及武汉市相关部门应先按照乙类传染病采取相应措施。
Wang said that in accordance with the above-mentioned law, before the State Council reported to the State Council for approval, the relevant authorities in Hubei Province and Wuhan should take appropriate measures to deal with Class B infectious diseases.
并且，在察觉此次疫情较为严重，对社会构成巨大威胁时，应当启动应急预案，及时发布警报，将疫情全过程公开，并提供公共参与的路径。
Moreover, when the outbreak becomes more serious and poses a great threat to society, emergency plans should be activated, timely warnings issued, the entire epidemic situation made public, and a path of public participation provided.
《传染病防治法》要求“授权后公布”，《突发事件应对法》则要求及时发出警报，两部法律是否相矛盾？王令表示，两部法律并没有冲突。
The Infectious Diseases Act requires "publication after authorization," and the Emergency Response Act requires a timely warning. Is there a conflict between the two laws? Wang said the two laws are not in conflict.
湖北卫生行政部门在获得国家卫健委关于疫情公布的授权前，依照《传染病防治法》，湖北当地确实不能公布疫情属于甲类传染病还是乙类传染病。
Before obtaining the authorization from the State Sanitary Commission on epidemic information, the Hubei Health Administration, in accordance with the Law on the Prevention and Treatment of Infectious Diseases, can't really announce whether the epidemic situation belongs to Class A or Class B infectious diseases.
但是，应当按照《突发事件应对法》针对突发的公共卫生事件履行法定职责，启动应急预案，及时向社会公众发布警示信息，比如发布武汉有多少人正因为一种不明的病毒而遭受侵害，并且提醒大家，这种侵害有可能具备传播性。
However, in accordance with the Law on Handling Public Health Emergencies, legal duties should be carried out in response to public health emergencies, emergency plans should be launched and timely warning messages should be issued to the public, such as how many people in Wuhan are being harmed by an unknown virus, and reminding people that such violations can be contagious.
另一方面，在国务院还没有确定新型冠状病毒肺炎进行甲类传染病防控的情况下，武汉市还是可以把它作为乙类传染病进行防控的——在12月初，武汉确诊第一起病例时就可以这么做，毕竟我国曾经发生过非典，毕竟武汉在去年就发表了对新型冠状病毒的研究，应当明了此次病毒类似于SARS。
On the other hand, in the absence of a State Council decision on the prevention and control of the new coronavirus pneumonia, Wuhan can treat it as a Class B infectious disease - as it did when the first case was diagnosed in Wuhan in early December.
中国人民大学医改研究中心主任王虎峰在接受《财经》采访时表示，实际上国家早在2006年就已经一次性将突发公共卫生事件一级响应和二级响应权限授权给省级政府；三级响应权限在地级市和省直管县政府；四级响应权限在县级政府。
Wang Hufeng, director of the Center for Medical Reform at Renmin University of China, told Caijing that in fact the state had already given provincial governments a one-off primary and secondary response to public health emergencies as early as 2006.
其依据来自2006年起施行的《卫生部法定传染病疫情和突发公共卫生事件信息发布方案》。
It is based on the Ministry of Health's Information Dissemination Programme on Statutory Infectious Diseases and Public Health Emergencies, which has been in force since 2006.
卫生部（现卫健委）于2003年组织制定了《卫生部关于法定传染病疫情和突发公共卫生事件信息发布方案（试行）》，此后，由于新修订的《传染病防治法》第三十八条“国家建立传染病疫情信息公布制度”的规定和《国家突发公共卫生事件应急预案》的具体要求，卫生部对原方案进行修订，并于2006年3月3日公布。
The Ministry of Health (now the Health Commission) organized the Ministry of Health's Information Dissemination Programme on Statutory Infectious Disease Outbreaks and Public Health Emergencies (Trial) in 2003, and subsequently revised it to meet the specific requirements of Article 38 of the newly revised Law on the Prevention and Control of Infectious Diseases and the State Emergency Plan for Public Health Emergencies.
其中一项重要的修订便是，明确了“卫生部授权各省、自治区、直辖市卫生行政部门在本行政区域内发生传染病暴发、流行以及发生其他突发公共卫生事件时，及时、准确地发布辖区内的法定传染病疫情和突发公共卫生事件信息。
One of the important amendments is to make it clear that the Ministry of Public Health authorizes the health administration departments of provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities directly under the Central Government to timely and accurately publish information on outbreaks of infectious diseases and other public health emergencies within their respective administrative areas.
”王虎峰说，这就是为什么最近各省先后采取了一级响应，而不是国务院统一布置进行一级响应。
That is why the provinces have recently taken a first-level response, rather than the State Council's centralized response, Wang said.
但值得注意的是，1月23日，非疫情爆发地的湖南、广东等省就已经启动了突发公共卫生事件一级应急响应，而作为疫情爆发地，湖北省政府自1月22日启动二级应急响应，直到1月24日才由二级升为一级。
However, it is worth noting that on January 23, Hunan and Guangdong provinces, where the outbreak did not occur, had already launched a first-level emergency response to public health emergencies, while the Hubei provincial government, the epicentre of the outbreak, launched a secondary emergency response on January 22 and did not move from Level II to Level 1 until January 24.
王虎峰认为，武汉疫情公布不及时，此事焦点不在于武汉市是否应该按照法律程序去做，而在于官员是否在自己的职责范围内尽责了。
Wang believes that Wuhan epidemic information is not timely, this matter is not focused on whether Wuhan City should be in accordance with legal procedures, but whether officials in their own responsibility within the due diligence.
王虎峰表示，法律有规定的，官员做事情只能按照现行法律来；至于法律没有明文规定的，就要根据实际情况来应对。
'There are laws that stipulate that officials can only do things according to existing laws, 'Mr. Wang said.
即便更高部门没有对疫病进行定性，对于疑似的传染病，地方官员在知情的情况下，应该在自己的责权范围内采取防控措施。
Even if the disease is not qualified by a higher authority, local officials should take control measures within their own area of responsibility for suspected infectious diseases.
反观武汉对新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情的防控时间线。
Wuhan on the new coronavirus pneumonia epidemic prevention and control time line.
1月18日，武汉市百步亭社区举行了一场万家宴，据《新京报》报道，4万余家庭端出13986道菜品，摆满党群活动中心主会场和9个分会场。
On January 18, a 10,000-family banquet was held in the Baibuting community of Wuhan city. According to the Beijing News, more than 40,986 dishes were served by more than 40,000 families, filling the main hall and nine branches of the central activity center of the Party.
武汉还推出了主题为“浓浓中国风，暖暖江城情”的2020春节武汉时光活动，从1月20日起，向市民发放20万张文旅惠民券，让市民过年期间可免费游览市内主要文旅景区。
Wuhan has also launched the 2020 Spring Festival Wuhan campaign on the theme of "Strong Chinese Style, Warm and Warm". From January 20, 200,000 Vouchers for Cultural Tour will be distributed to the public so that they can visit the main scenic spots in the city free of charge during the New Year.
引发争议后，武汉市文旅局下发紧急通知，公告活动延期。
After sparking controversy, Wuhan City Wentoubureau issued emergency notice, announcement activities were postponed.
1月21日，明确新型冠状病毒“人传人”后，包括武汉在内的湖北多地采取“封城”措施，但与此同时， 2020年湖北省春节团拜会文艺演出在洪山礼堂举办。
Hubei province, including Wuhan, adopted measures to seal the coronavirus from person to person on January 21, but at the same time a cultural performance was held in the Hongshan auditorium during the Spring Festival celebrations in Hubei Province in 2020.
上述三起事件均被指不利疫情防控，对于突发的公共卫生事件处置不当。
All three incidents were referred to as adverse epidemic prevention and control and improper handling of public health emergencies.
“武汉肺炎”疫情系列报道▷ 点击图片查看责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Wuhan Pneumonia (Wuhan Pneumonia) series of reports Please click picture to see RIA & # 45; & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
谁有权公布疫情信息？。
Who has the right to release information about the epidemic?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "谁有权公布疫情信息？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Who has the right to disclose information about the epidemic? & quot;;
var msg_desc = "政府的责任不仅仅是信息披露，更在于面对突发的公共卫生事件时，应对措施的组织、筹划是否到位";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
