政府卫生投入增速下滑 医卫系统盼政策保障提高支出。
Government health investment growth rate decline health system hope policy to protect higher expenditure.
孟庆伟。
Meng Qingwei.
中国经营报                      。
China Business News.
中国经营报。
China Business News.
与中国企业同步成长，对话商业领袖，传播商业理想，服务商业人群，《中国经营报》掌控中国商界绝对话语权。
Growing in step with Chinese companies, dialogue with business leaders, spreading business ideals, serving the business community, The China Business Administration controls the absolute voice of the Chinese business community.
。
.
本报记者 孟庆伟 北京报道改革开放40多年来，我国政府卫生投入规模逐年增长，政府卫生投入的年均增长速度也“跑赢”GDP的年均增长速度。
Our correspondent Meng Qingwei Beijing reports that over the past 40 years of reform and opening up, the scale of government investment in health has increased year by year, and the annual growth rate of government health input has also "outpaced" the annual GDP growth rate.
国家卫健委卫生发展研究中心的研究数据显示，虽然政府卫生投入的规模不断扩大，但是从2015年开始，政府卫生支出的实际增速便开始下滑：从2015年17.8%降至2018年的4.8%。
According to data from the National Center for Health Research and Development of the National Health Council, the real growth rate of government spending on health began to decline in 2015, from 17.8 per cent in 2015 to 4.8 per cent in 2018, despite the increasing scale of government spending on health.
“这是目前需要重点关注的问题。
"This is an issue that needs to be focused on now.
特别是当前处于推进‘健康中国’建设和深化医改、解决‘看病贵’问题的关键时期，按照世界卫生组织‘全民健康覆盖’的倡议目标，我国还处在过程中，仍需充足、稳定、可持续的政府卫生投入来为卫生健康发展提供支持和保障。
We are still in the process of implementing adequate, stable and sustainable government health input to support and guarantee the healthy development of our country, in accordance with the World Health Organization's goal of "Health Coverage for All."
”国家卫健委卫生发展研究中心副主任张毓辉研究员接受《中国经营报》记者采访时表示。
Zhang Yuhui, deputy director of the National Fitness and Health Research Center, told China Business News.
国家卫健委卫生发展研究中心具体负责卫生总费用核算工作，其开展的卫生总费用预测研究，对卫生费用规模及结构进行研判，为中央各部门的决策提供依据。
The Health Development Research Center of the National Health Care Commission is specifically responsible for the accounting of the total cost of health. It carries out a study on the total cost of health, examines the scale and structure of health costs and provides a basis for decision-making by the central government departments.
改革开放以来，随着经济的快速增长，我国政府卫生投入力度也在不断增强。
Since the reform and opening up, with the rapid economic growth, China's government health investment is also increasing.
但采访中，专家和卫生系统官员均表示，还应进一步提高政府卫生支出，尤其是构建政府可持续投入机制，对卫生投入给予政策保障。
In interviews, however, experts and health system officials said that government spending on health should be further increased, in particular by building sustainable government investment mechanisms and providing policy guarantees for health investments.
构建什么样的机制来保障政府卫生投入的可持续性？是否可以参照财政教育经费占GDP不低于4%的比重一样，将卫生经费也与GDP挂钩？随着当前我国医疗体制机制向纵深改革推进，“健康中国”建设进入重要阶段，尤其是此次新冠肺炎疫情让我国医疗卫生体系的很多方面接受了考验，构建一个什么样的卫生投入长效机制，已摆在眼前。
What kind of mechanism should be put in place to ensure the sustainability of government investment in health care? Can health expenditure be linked to GDP in the same way that fiscal expenditure on education accounts for no less than 4% of GDP?
“政府卫生投入水平较为合理”反映一国卫生投入的指标有很多。
There are many indexes to reflect the health input of a country.
张毓辉告诉记者，目前国际惯用且国内官方使用的衡量国家卫生投入水平的指标包括卫生总费用和人均卫生总费用；反映卫生投入力度的指标可分为两类，常用的一个是卫生总费用占GDP（国内生产总值）比重，能够反映整个国家和全社会对健康的重视程度和投入水平；一个是国际口径的广义政府卫生支出（包括政府卫生服务支出和社会保障卫生支出）占广义政府支出的比重，可以反映公共资金对人群健康和就医负担的保障力度，按照国内的统计分类，常用的分析口径是政府卫生支出占财政支出的比重。
Zhang Yuhui told reporters that the indicators commonly used internationally to measure the level of national health input include total health expenditure and total health expenditure per capita. Indicators reflecting the level of health input can be divided into two categories.
卫生总费用除广义政府卫生支出外，主要是个人卫生支出。
The total cost of health is mainly personal hygiene expenditure, in addition to broad government spending on health.
研究显示，个人卫生支出在卫生总费用中占比越高，老百姓看病就医发生灾难性医疗支出或因病致贫返贫的风险就越高，所以需要提高广义政府卫生支出占比，缓解个人看病经济负担。
Studies have shown that the higher the proportion of total health expenditure spent on hygiene, and the higher the risk of catastrophic medical expenditure or illness-related poverty returning to poverty, the higher the share of broad-based government health spending needed to ease the financial burden on individuals.
《中国经营报》记者从国家卫健委卫生发展研究中心了解到，2018年，我国卫生总费用为59122亿元，占GDP比重为6.4%。
According to the China Business Administration, the total cost of health in 2018 will be 591.22 billion yuan, accounting for 6.4 percent of GDP, according to the National Center for Health Development and Research.
从筹资来源看，按照我国采用的并行口径，政府卫生支出、社会卫生支出、个人卫生支出分别为16399亿元、25811亿元和16912亿元，占卫生总费用的比重分别为27.7%、43.7%和28.6%。
In terms of funding sources, according to the parallel calibre adopted by China, government health expenditure, social health expenditure and personal hygiene expenditure were 163.99 billion yuan, 2581.1 billion yuan and 1691.2 billion yuan respectively, accounting for 27.7 percent, 43.7 percent and 28.6 percent of the total health expenses, respectively.
其中，个人卫生支出占卫生总费用比重为近20年来的最低水平。
Of these, personal hygiene expenditure as a proportion of total health expenditure was the lowest in nearly 20 years.
“与国际数据对比，根据世界卫生组织最新统计资料，按官方汇率计算，2017年我国人均GDP为8744.88美元，在世界卫生组织 194个成员国中排名第75位；人均卫生总费用为560.42美元，排名第71位；卫生总费用占GDP的比重为6.43%，位居第96位。
"In comparison with international data, according to the latest WHO statistics, China's per capita GDP in 2017 is US $8744.88, 75th out of 194 WHO member states, total health cost per capita is US $560.42, ranking 71st, and total health expenditure is at 6.43 percent of GDP, ranking 96th place.
从筹资保障看，在世界卫生组织成员国中，我国个人卫生支出占比排名第118位；广义政府卫生支出占广义政府支出排名为104位。
In terms of funding guarantees, our country ranks 118th in terms of personal hygiene expenditure among WHO member States and 104 in the broad category of government expenditure on health.
” 张毓辉告诉记者。
Zhang Yuhui told reporters.
据了解，改革开放以来，我国卫生总费用投入逐年增加，但较发达国家还有一定差距。
It is understood that since the reform and opening up, China's total health expenditure has increased year by year, but more developed countries still have a certain gap.
2016年，OECD（经合组织）国家卫生总费用占GDP的比重平均水平在9.1%，36个国家中33个国家投入水平高于我国。
In 2016, the average share of total health spending in OECD countries was 9.1 per cent of GDP, with 33 of 36 countries having higher levels of investment than China.
2018年底，财政部部长刘昆在十三届全国人大常委会第七次会议期间应询时曾透露，中国政府卫生投入水平较为合理，2015年，据世界卫生组织的测算，我国广义政府卫生支出占卫生总费用的比重达到59.8%。
At the end of 2018, when asked during the seventh meeting of the Standing Committee of the Thirteenth National People's Congress, Minister Liu Kun disclosed that the level of health spending by the Chinese Government was reasonable and that, according to estimates by the World Health Organization, China's broad government expenditure on health accounted for 59.8 per cent of total health expenditure in 2015.
“我们认为，这个投入比重与我国基本国情是相适应的。
"We believe that the proportion of investment is in line with China's basic national conditions.
”对这一指标的解读，刘昆如是表示。
Such is the reading of this indicator, says Mr Liu.
刘昆还进一步解释称，虽然59.8%这一数字还低于英国、加拿大等发达国家，但是高于巴西、印度等金砖国家，巴西是42.8%，印度是26.5%。
Liu further explained that while the figure of 59.8 per cent was lower than that of developed countries such as the United Kingdom and Canada, it was higher than that of BRICS countries such as Brazil and India, with 42.8 per cent for Brazil and 26.5 per cent for India.
刘昆还从医疗体制的不同来解释这一数据在中国的合理性。
Liu Kun also explains the validity of the data in China in terms of differences in health-care systems.
他称，实施国家医疗保障体制的英国，这一比重是80.4%，而在实行私人保险体制的美国，这一比重是50.5%。
In the UK, where the NHS is in place, it is 80.4 per cent, while in the US it is 50.5 per cent, he said.
“我国作为实行社会医疗保险制度的国家，当前59.8%的投入水平是基本符合一般规律的。
"As a country with a social medical insurance system, 59.8 percent of the current input level is basically in line with the general rule.
”中国财政支出占GDP的比重较低是其中一个原因，2017年仅为24.6%，远低于经合组织国家平均45%以上的水平。
One reason for this is China's low share of GDP, which stood at 24.6 per cent in 2017, well below the OECD average of more than 45 per cent.
刘昆认为，在政府可用财力比重较低的情况下，相应的医疗卫生比重也会较低。
Liu Kun believes that when the proportion of government available financial resources is low, the corresponding proportion of health care will be low.
但财政医疗卫生支出连年增长，增幅持续超过同期财政支出的增长水平。
However, fiscal and health expenditure has increased year after year, with growth consistently exceeding the growth of fiscal expenditure over the same period.
近年来，我国广义政府卫生支出占卫生总费用的比重指标不断提高，2009年新医改启动当年仅为49.4%，2011年提高到55.89%，但低于全球平均水平。
In recent years, China's broad government expenditure on health as a proportion of total health costs has been rising steadily. In 2009, the new healthcare reform was only 49.4%, and in 2011 it rose to 55.89%, which is lower than the global average.
“目前来看，这个广义的指标大概在60%左右，和世界平均水平差不多。
"At the moment, this broad measure is about 60 percent, about the same as the world average.
” 上海创奇健康发展研究院创始人和执行理事长、中欧商学院访问教授、原中欧商学院卫生管理与政策中心主任蔡江南表示。
Cai Jiangnan, founder and executive director of Shanghai-based Chuangqi Institute for Health Development, a visiting professor at the Central European Business School and former director of the Center for Health Management and Policy at the Central European Business School.
蔡江南还告诉记者，国际通用的还有一个更严格的指标，是一国财政医疗卫生支出占财政总支出的比重。
Cai Jiangnan also told reporters that the international common but also a more stringent indicator is a country's financial health expenditure as a proportion of total fiscal expenditure.
根据2017年公开的资料计算，我国财政卫生支出占财政总支出的比重为7.12%。
According to data published in 2017, the proportion of fiscal health expenditure in total fiscal expenditure is 7.12 per cent.
“这是政府财政直接拿出来的钱占财政总支出的比重，发达国家的水平一般在20%左右，相比而言，中国是偏低的。
"This is the proportion of total government spending that comes directly from government finances. The level in developed countries is generally around 20 percent, compared to China's low level.
”蔡江南表示。
Cai Jiangnan said.
近年政府卫生支出增速波动明显国际研究表明，一方面，随着经济的增长，人们对健康的重视程度会越来越高，政府对卫生的投入也会越来越大。
Recent years have seen marked fluctuations in government spending on health. International studies have shown that, on the one hand, as the economy grows, people pay more attention to health and governments invest more and more in health.
另一方面，随着政府对卫生投入的增加，人们对于医疗卫生服务需求的不断满足，国民的健康状况会得到改善，可以增加劳动力资本、提高工作效率、延长劳动力工作时间等，又会进一步促进经济的增长。
On the other hand, as government spending on health increases and the demand for health services continues to be met, the health status of the population will improve, resulting in an increase in labour capital, greater efficiency and longer working hours, which in turn will further boost economic growth.
改革开放以来，随着经济的快速增长，我国政府卫生投入力度也在不断增强。
Since the reform and opening up, with the rapid economic growth, China's government health investment is also increasing.
从规模看，政府卫生支出由1978年的35亿元增长至2018年的1.6万亿元，占GDP的比重由1978年的0.96%增长至2018年的1.82%。
In terms of scale, government spending on health increased from 3.5 billion yuan in 1978 to 1.6 trillion yuan in 2018, an increase from 0.96 percent of GDP in 1978 to 1.82 percent in 2018.
而从速度看，政府卫生支出增速也“跑赢”多个经济指标。
And from the speed point of view, the government health expenditure growth rate also "outpaces" many economic indicators.
张毓辉告诉记者，这期间，政府卫生投入的年均增长速度为11.2%，高于GDP的年均增长速度（9.4%）和财政支出的年均增长速度（8.8%），体现了党和政府对卫生健康事业的重视。
Zhang Yuhui told reporters that the annual average growth rate of government spending on health was 11.2 percent, which was higher than the average annual growth rate of 9.4 percent of GDP and 8.8 percent of fiscal expenditure.
记者梳理改革开放以来的数据发现，大部分年份政府卫生支出的增速高于GDP增速。
Reporters combed the data since reform and opening up and found that government health spending grew faster than GDP in most years.
但值得关注的是，近年来，在经济下行压力持续加大、财政收支矛盾日益突出的背景下，政府卫生支出的增速波动明显，尤其是近几年，增速持续放缓，2015年实际增速为17.8%，2017年降至个位数，2018年继续降至4.8%。
However, it is worth noting that in recent years, against the background of increasing economic downward pressure and increasing fiscal contradictions, the growth rate of government health expenditure has fluctuated markedly. In particular, in recent years, the rate of growth has continued to slow down, reaching 17.8 percent in real terms in 2015, to single digits in 2017 and 4.8 percent in 2018.
“这是目前需要重点关注的问题。
"This is an issue that needs to be focused on now.
特别是当前处于推进‘健康中国’建设和深化医改、解决‘看病贵’问题的关键时期，按照世界卫生组织‘全民健康覆盖’的倡议目标，我国还处在过程中，仍然需要充足、稳定、可持续的政府卫生投入来为卫生健康发展提供支持和保障。
In particular, we are in the process of promoting 'healthy China' construction and deepening medical reform and solving the problem of 'looking after the sick and expensive'. In line with the World Health Organization's goal of 'Health Coverage for All', we are still in the process of requiring sufficient, stable and sustainable government health input to support and guarantee the healthy development of health.
”张毓辉表示。
Mr Cheung said.
如何构建一个政府卫生投入长效机制？张毓辉认为，下一步需要积极适应财政运行新常态，转变观念，探索客观、科学、合理和可持续的财政健康投入新机制。
Zhang Yuhui believes that the next step is to actively adapt to the new normal of financial operation, change the concept, and explore objective, scientific, rational and sustainable financial and health investment mechanisms.
一方面，随着社会的不断发展，生活水平的提高，人民的健康理念发生了很大的改变，健康需求从“能看病”发展到“看好病”“不得病”，这对财政投入保障也提出了更高的标准和要求。
On the one hand, with the continuous development of society and the improvement of living standards, the people's concept of health has undergone great changes, and the need for health has grown from "seeing a doctor" to "seeing a good disease" and "not getting sick," which has also set higher standards and requirements for financial investment protection.
财政投入方向需要进一步由“以治病为中心”向“以人民健康为中心”转变，建立以健康结果指标为导向的财政健康投入机制。
The direction of financial investment needs to be further changed from "disease treatment-centered" to "people's health-centered" and establish a financial health investment mechanism oriented by health outcome indicators.
另一方面，考虑我国深化医改和“健康中国”建设的进程，有必要建立与社会经济发展相适应的筹资增长机制，保证政府卫生投入在中央和地方财政预算安排时的优先地位，有效解决卫生健康事业发展不平衡不充分的问题，为深化医改和推进“健康中国”建设提供强有力支撑。
On the other hand, considering the process of deepening medical reform and building a "healthy China," it is necessary to set up a funding growth mechanism suitable for social and economic development, ensure the priority status of government health input in the central and local budgetary arrangements, effectively address the uneven and inadequate development of public health services, and provide strong support for deepening medical reform and promoting "healthy China."
“同时，我们也要认识到，在经济新常态的大环境下，我国政府卫生投入长效机制还要更多关注如何分配和使用资金，即考虑如何将有限的财政投入聚焦全生命周期的主要健康问题及主要影响因素，确定优先干预领域，提高财政资金的投入产出效益。
"At the same time, we need to realize that under the new normal economic environment, our government should pay more attention to how to allocate and use the funds, that is, how to focus the limited financial investment on the main health problems and the main influencing factors in the whole life cycle, identify the priority intervention areas and improve the input-output efficiency of the financial funds.
”张毓辉说，按照习近平总书记在十九大上提出的“全面实施绩效管理”要求，切实提升各部门的绩效管理意识，促进形成“既重投入又重产出、既重使用又重效益、既重分配又重监督”的新观念。
Zhang Yuhui said that in line with General Secretary Xi Jinping's request for "full implementation of performance management" at the 19th General Assembly, the department's performance management consciousness should be effectively raised to promote the new concept of "reinvestment and output, reuse and efficiency, redistribution and supervision."
教育经费投入的启示一国政府在医疗卫生领域的投入规模和水平多少是合理的？随着我国经济社会的快速发展，这个民生问题越来越受到关注。
The Enlightenment of Educational Expense Input The scale and level of a government's investment in medical and health care is reasonable? With the rapid development of China's economy and society, this issue of people's livelihood attracts more and more attention.
这并非一个新话题。
This is not a new topic.
记者注意到，在保障政府卫生投入稳定和可持续问题上，有不少观点认为，应该像保障教育经费那样保障卫生经费，明确政府医疗卫生投入占GDP或财政收入一定的比重。
The reporter noted that, on the issue of ensuring the stability and sustainability of the government's health input, there are many views on the need to ensure the health expenditure as much as the expenditure on education, and to clarify the proportion of the government health care input in the GDP or the fiscal revenue.
2018年审议《基本医疗卫生与健康促进法草案》时，全国人大专委会委员就曾建议，应立法明确医疗卫生支出占GDP比重。
When the Draft Law on Basic Health Care and Health Promotion was reviewed in 2018, members of the National People's Congress had recommended that legislation should be enacted to clarify the proportion of GDP spent on health care.
但最终于2019年底表决通过、2020年6月1日开始实施的《基本医疗卫生与健康促进法》，只对医疗卫生事业的资金保障做了原则性规定，并没有明确具体的定量指标。
However, the Basic Health Care and Health Promotion Act, which was finally adopted at the end of 2019 and entered into force on 1 June 2020, provides in principle only for the funding of health services, without specifying specific quantitative targets.
同卫生事业一样，教育经费占国内生产总值的比例，也是世界上衡量一个国家教育水平的通行指标。
As with health, expenditure on education as a percentage of GDP is a common indicator of a country's level of education in the world.
早在1993年，国务院印发的《中国教育改革和发展纲要》中就明确，要逐步提高国家财政性教育经费支出占国民生产总值的比例，本世纪末（2000年）达到4%。
As early as 1993, the State Council issued the Outline for the Reform and Development of Education in China, which explicitly stipulated that the proportion of the gross national product (GNP) allocated to education by the State should be raised gradually to 4 per cent by the end of the century (2000).
彼时，我国改革开放和现代化建设正进入加快发展的新阶段，但教育事业总体比较落后的情况与经济建设不相适应。
At that time, China's reform and opening-up and modernization are entering a new stage of accelerated development, but the overall backward situation of education is not suitable for economic construction.
同时，“教育经费相当紧缺”。
At the same time, "education funds are rather scarce."
1993年，国家财政性教育经费支出占GDP的比例仅为2.51%，远低于世界平均水平。
In 1993, the proportion of the national financial expenditure on education in GDP was only 2.51 percent, well below the world average.
然而，这一目标的实现并不容易，在国家经济发展水平有限、财政收入占GDP的比重偏低、教育事业底子薄等大背景下，直到2012年，经过近20年的不懈努力，这一目标才得以实现。
However, this goal was not easy to achieve until 2012, after nearly 20 years of unremitting efforts, against a backdrop of limited national economic development, low fiscal revenue as a share of GDP and a weak educational base.
4%，一个看起来并不高的数字，却推动中国的教育事业实现了历史性跨越。
Four percent, a seemingly modest figure, has helped make a historic leap in education in China.
教育部公开的数据显示，以毛入学（园）率为例，2012年相比1990年，幼儿园毛入园率翻番，义务教育阶段，初中毛入学率提高超过50%，高中入学率则增长两倍多，大学毛入学率更是增长了近8倍。
According to data published by the Ministry of Education, the gross enrolment rate in kindergartens doubled in 2012 compared to 1990, the gross enrolment rate in lower secondary education increased by more than 50 per cent in compulsory education, the enrolment rate in upper secondary schools more than tripled, and the gross enrolment rate in universities increased almost eightfold.
2012年之后，国家继续巩固来之不易的发展成果。
After 2012, the country continued to consolidate hard-won development gains.
截止到2018年，国家财政性教育经费支出占GDP的比例已连续7年超过4%。
By 2018, the proportion of national financial expenditure on education as a proportion of GDP had exceeded 4 per cent for seven consecutive years.
其中，最高的2012年为4.28％，2018年为4.11%。
The highest rate was 4.28 per cent in 2012 and 4.11 per cent in 2018.
教育部原副部长杜玉波曾表示，“教育经费4%的底线要守住”。
Du Yubo, former deputy minister of education, said "the bottom line of 4 per cent of education spending should be maintained."
国家通过政策法规，不仅规定了4%这一底线，还让教育财政投入的可持续有了法律保障。
By adopting policies and regulations, the State has not only set a limit of 4 per cent, but also provided legal guarantees for the sustainability of financial investment in education.
1995年实施的《教育法》中明确提出，“国家财政性教育经费支出占国民生产总值的比例应当随着国民经济的发展和财政收入的增长逐步提高”。
The Education Law, which came into force in 1995, clearly stipulates that "the proportion of the gross national product allocated to education by the State shall gradually increase with the development of the national economy and the growth of fiscal revenue."
《教育法》虽经多次修正，但这一规定始终未变。
Although the Education Act has been amended several times, this provision remains unchanged.
2018年，国务院出台的《关于进一步调整优化结构提高教育经费使用效益的意见》再提4%目标，指出“保证国家财政性教育经费支出占国内生产总值比例一般不低于4%，确保一般公共预算教育支出逐年只增不减”。
In 2018, the State Council issued the Opinions on Further Adjustment and Optimization of the Structure to Improve the Efficiency of the Use of Educational Expenses, adding a further 4 percent target, noting that "the proportion of the gross domestic product allocated to education by the state is generally not less than 4 percent.
也正是一系列的政策保障，近30年来，我国教育事业不仅取得了举世瞩目的成就，总体发展水平还挺进了世界中上行列。
It is also a series of policy guarantees. In the past 30 years, China's educational undertakings have not only achieved world-renowned achievements, but also advanced into the ranks of the world as a whole.
早在2014年教育部的一项评估显示，我国义务教育普及率已高于世界高收入国家的平均水平；高中阶段毛入学率和高等教育毛入学率均高于世界中高收入国家平均水平。
As early as 2014, an assessment by the Ministry of Education showed that the coverage of compulsory education in our country is higher than the average for high-income countries in the world; the gross enrolment rate and the gross enrolment rate at the tertiary level are both higher than the world average for high-income countries.
到2018年，上述指标进一步提高，学前教育毛入园率达到81.7%，九年义务教育巩固率94.2%，高中阶段毛入学率88.8%，高等教育毛入学率达到48.1%。
By 2018, the above targets will be further raised, with 81.7 percent of the preschool education enrollment rate, 94.2 percent of the nine-year compulsory education consolidation rate, 88.8 percent of the senior middle school enrollment rate, and 48.1 percent of the higher education enrollment rate.
教育事业的变化，也让社会各界开始思考，政府卫生投入是否也可以参照教育实施，即明确政府卫生支出要占到GDP多少比例，且随之增长。
The changes in education have also led the community to wonder whether government spending on health can also be implemented by reference to education, that is, how much of GDP the government spends on health, and with it, how much.
实际上，我国曾在1997年1月印发的《中共中央、国务院关于卫生改革与发展的决定》中最早明确提出:“到本世纪末（2000年）,争取全社会卫生总费用占国内生产总值的5％左右。
In fact, in the Decision of the Central Committee of the CPC and the State Council on Health Reform and Development, issued in January 1997, China clearly stated: "By the end of this century (2000), the total cost of public health will be about 5 percent of the GDP.
”这是我国第一次使用“全社会卫生总费用占国内生产总值”的比例数作为国家的调控指标。
This is the first time that China has used the proportion of "total social health expenditure as a percentage of GDP" as an indicator for state regulation.
2000年，这一目标得以实现，达到了5.13%的水平。
In 2000, this target was achieved, reaching a level of 5.13 per cent.
此后，类似上述的明确目标没有再出现在中央文件中。
Since then, explicit goals such as those mentioned above have no longer appeared in the central document.
难与GDP挂钩目前，针对政府卫生投入的具体政策与办法，主要体现在卫生健康领域相关的文件中，新医改以来的多个政策文件中对于政府卫生投入总体水平的目标要求比较明确。
At present, the specific policies and measures for the government's health input are mainly embodied in the relevant documents in the field of health care.
张毓辉告诉记者，例如要求“政府卫生投入增幅不低于同期财政经常性支出增幅”；在“健康中国”建设中，也强调“健康优先”，要求“在财政投入上着力保障健康需求”。
Zhang Yuhui told reporters, for example, that "government spending on health should increase by no less than the same period," and that "health priority" should be emphasized in the construction of "healthy China," which requires "strong financial input to protect health needs."
《预算法》也规定：“各级一般公共预算支出的编制，应当统筹兼顾，在保证基本公共服务合理需要的前提下，优先安排国家确定的重点支出。
The Budget Law also stipulates: "The compilation of expenditure from the general public budget at all levels shall be balanced in order to prioritize the priority expenditures determined by the State, on the premise of ensuring the rational need for basic public services.
”但张毓辉坦言，从《预算法》看，对于卫生健康是不是“重点支出”，是没有明确表述的，也因此难以在法制层面保障各级政府财政安排中将健康相关事业与活动置于相对优先的地位。
But Zhang Yuhui admitted that the budget law did not clearly state whether health was a "priority expenditure," making it difficult to ensure that health-related causes and activities were given relatively high priority in government financial arrangements at the rule-of-law level.
在当地方政府财政面临压力的情况下，部分地区卫生健康支出力度往往会受到较大影响。
When local governments face pressure on their finances, health spending in some areas tends to be greatly affected.
“如果能像教育一样，对政府卫生投入提出具有较高约束效力的明确目标要求，对于政府卫生投入的稳定可持续具有很好的保障作用。
"If, like education, we can put forward a clear goal requirement with high binding effect on government health input, it will be a good guarantee for the stability and sustainability of government health input."
” 张毓辉说。
"said Zhang Yuhui.
但考虑未来财政制度改革的总体方向，将政府卫生投入与GDP挂钩，恐将难以实现。
But, given the overall direction of future fiscal-system reform, linking government health spending to GDP will be difficult to achieve.
党的十八届三中全会通过的《中共中央关于全面深化改革若干重大问题的决定》（以下简称《决定》）中指出，清理规范重点支出同财政收支增幅或生产总值挂钩事项，一般不采取挂钩方式。
In the Decision of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China on Several Important Issues of Comprehensive and Deepening Reform (hereinafter referred to as "the Decision"), adopted at the Third Plenum of the 18th Central Committee of the Party, it is generally not linked to the growth of fiscal balance or gross domestic product.
“因此，在有关法律法规和相关规划文本中，设置何种政府卫生投入约束指标存在较大争议。
"Therefore, in the relevant laws and regulations and related planning texts, there is great controversy over which government health input constraints to set.
政府卫生投入占财政支出比重、政府卫生投入占GDP比重这类指标是常用的分析指标，但在政策实践中采用还面临较大难度。
The proportion of government health expenditure and the proportion of government health expenditure in GDP are commonly used indicators, but it is difficult to use them in policy practice.
” 张毓辉告诉记者。
Zhang Yuhui told reporters.
也因此，张毓辉认为，从研究的角度进行探讨，目前有两种思路可以参考：一种是从健康结果的角度，综合考虑人口数、年龄结构、期望寿命、患病率、死亡率等指标，构建健康需求综合指数，并以健康需求综合指数为因素测算所需要的政府卫生投入水平；另一种是从明确和落实政府卫生投入责任的角度，明确卫生健康事业关键领域的政府投入责任，分析目前存在的差距，据此测算医疗卫生服务提供和医疗卫生机构运行发展所需要的政府投入规模。
Therefore, Zhang Yuhui thinks, from the point of view of research, there are two ideas to refer to: from the perspective of health outcomes, comprehensive health needs index, life expectancy, morbidity and mortality indicators, and the health needs index to determine the key areas of government health investment responsibility, analysis of existing gaps, and thus estimate the scale of government investment in health service delivery and operation and development.
推荐阅读点击大图|武汉楼市自救点击大图|疫情之下：苹果供应链危情时刻？。
Wuhan Property Market Help Click & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
政府卫生投入增速下滑 医卫系统盼政策保障提高支出。
Government health investment growth rate decline health system hope policy to protect higher expenditure.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "中国经营报";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "政府卫生投入增速下滑 医卫系统盼政策保障提高支出";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "改革开放40多年来，我国政府卫生投入规模逐年增长，政府卫生投入的年均增长速度也“跑赢”GDP的年均增长速度。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Over the past 40 years of reform and opening up, the scale of government health spending has increased year by year, and the government's health spending has grown at an annual average rate of "outpacing" GDP.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '武汉楼市自救',。
Wuhan property market has AT & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
subject_name: '中国经营报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '疫情之下：苹果供应链危情时刻？',。
AT RATE & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '中国经营报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="中国经营报";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
