淘宝0账期背后：650万商家的“生死救援”。
Taobao 0 account period behind: 6.5 million businesses "life and death rescue."
黄玉璐。
Topaz Lu.
中国经营报                      。
China Business News.
中国经营报。
China Business News.
与中国企业同步成长，对话商业领袖，传播商业理想，服务商业人群，《中国经营报》掌控中国商界绝对话语权。
Growing in step with Chinese companies, dialogue with business leaders, spreading business ideals, serving the business community, The China Business Administration controls the absolute voice of the Chinese business community.
。
.
疫情下的电商生意场，没有“事缓则圆”。
Under the epidemic situation of business, there is no "slow, more round."
如果没有提前拿到80万元淘宝回款，靠信用卡提现而来的20多万元，武汉商人焦迟楠经营6年的童鞋生意“也就撑个十来天”，公司运营事业部还有50名武汉员工“嗷嗷待业”。
If you don't get 800,000 Taobao cash in advance, you can draw more than 200,000 yuan from your credit card. Wuhan businessman Jiao Qiao Nan runs a children's shoe business for six years.
万物可以等待冰雪消融后向阳生长，但对于数量超过4000万的中国中小企业而言，现金断流下的每一秒等待，都生死攸关。
Everything can wait for the ice to melt and the sun to grow, but for the more than 40 million Chinese small and medium-sized enterprises, every second of cash stoppage is a matter of life and death.
作为创业者，霸蛮米粉创始人张天一更能感受到“被现金流扼住喉咙”的紧迫。
As an entrepreneur, Decepticon founder Zhang Tianyi felt more "by the cash flow choke throat" the urgency.
就在疫情前夕，公司正高歌猛进开新店，60多家线下门店，1个月近2000万元的成本支出，加之发工资的日子越来越近，张天一做好最坏的准备：弹尽粮绝，也就三四个月。
Just before the outbreak, the company is roaring into new stores, more than 60 off-line stores, a month of nearly 20 million yuan of cost expenditure, and the day the payroll day gets closer, Zhang Tianyi prepared for the worst: running out of food and water for three or four months.
正是在15天的“生死存亡点”，660万元淘宝回款，救了张天一和霸蛮的急。
It is in the 15-day "survival point," 6.6 million Taobao Taobao money, saved Zhang Tianyi and bully of urgency.
“穷人易过，穷生意难过。
"The poor are easy to get along with poor business.
”叱咤商场一生的李嘉诚始终牢记这句话，困难时期，穷苦人家尚可以节衣缩食，勉强维生，但“穷生意很难，非常难”。
CRI launched all his life, always bearing this in mind that, in difficult times, poor families can still afford to live from hand to mouth, but "poor business is difficult, very difficult."
好在，疫情难题面前，650万淘宝天猫商家不是孤军奋战。
Fortunately, in the face of the epidemic, 6.5 million Taobao Tiantong business is not alone.
企业生死线突如其来的疫情，让焦迟楠回不了家，更“回不了血”。
Enterprise life and death of the sudden epidemic, so that Jiao late home, more "can not return to the blood."
年前，焦迟楠免不了“出血”：近180个员工的年终奖和假期工资，总计100万元；2020年春夏新品的设计和生产，开支近300万元；厂租和仓库租金，支出近130万元，再加上支付给供货商的50万元……零零总总，春节前，公司支出近600万元。
About 180 employees received year-end bonuses and vacation pay totaling $1 million, while nearly $3 million was spent on the design and production of new products in spring and summer 2020, nearly $1.3 million on plant rental and warehouse rental, plus $500,000 paid to suppliers.
2014年，焦迟楠创办童鞋品牌“拉拉猪”，与合伙人在浙江金华自建工厂，同时在天猫上经营“拉拉猪旗舰店”。
In 2014, Jiao created the "Lala Pigs" brand of children's shoes, built its own factory in Jinhua, Zhejiang, with partners, and ran a "Lala pig flagship store" on the cat.
6年光景，“拉拉猪”的年产销值可达6000万元至8000万元。
In six years, the annual production and sales value of "Lala pig" can reach 60 million to 80 million yuan.
作为土生土长的武汉人，焦迟楠把公司的运营事业部放在家乡，50多位员工也基本是武汉、湖北人。
As a native of Wuhan, Jiao QiuNan the company's operating business in his hometown, more than 50 employees are also basically Wuhan, Hubei people.
疫情爆发前，焦迟楠已经感到银根吃紧：“年前背后压力比较大。
Before the outbreak, Jiao Qiao Nan was already feeling tight: "There was a lot of pressure behind the year before.
”金华的厂租一年一付，比去年还涨了40%，“开发和新品的需求也都比较大，所以资金都用掉了”。
"Jinhua's factory rents are paid once a year, up 40 percent from last year, and" demand for both development and new products is big, so the money is out of money. "
焦迟楠原本做好贷款70万到100万元的准备，1月16日前后向银行提出贷款申请，“那个时候对疫情没什么感觉，都正常上班”，但“没想到有这个事情”。
Jiao, who had been preparing to lend between $700,000 and $1 million, applied to banks around January 16 for a loan "without feeling the epidemic and going to work normally," but "didn't expect this to happen."
贷款申请拖了一周又一周，“本来是一个星期，后来两个星期银行都没给答复，到第3个星期根本就没办法弄了。
The loan application dragged on week after week. "It was supposed to be a week, but the bank didn't respond for two weeks, and we couldn't get it by the third week.
”等待期间，他带着妻子、孩子到泰国度假，但回国时武汉已经封城，一家只好到金华“投奔”合伙人，父母则留在武汉。
While waiting, he took his wife and children on vacation to Thailand, but by the time he returned home Wuhan had been closed to the family, which had to go to Jinhua to join the partners while their parents stayed in Wuhan.
对武汉人来说，这注定是个难忘的春节，焦迟楠也不例外，只是他还有一层压力——熬到正月初七，全面复工还遥遥无期，武汉仓库有15万件、价值500万元的库存原封不动，原本还有20%的库存走得是线下批发渠道，疫情期间则根本走不动，公司有近400万元的贷款要还，贷款迟迟没有音信……不能再等下去，2月3日，焦迟楠从信用卡中提现20万元左右应急，不过“做平台推广都不够，只能支撑个10来天。
Wuhan people, this is destined to be an unforgettable Spring Festival, Jiao ZhiNan is no exception, but he has a layer of pressure - until the first seven months of the first month, full resumption of work is not the case, Wuhan warehouse has 150 million inventory line wholesale channels, the epidemic period, the company nearly 4 million yuan loan repayments, loans from the emergency.
”焦虑与压力的滋味，张天一也没少尝。
Zhang Tianyi never lost sight of the taste of anxiety and stress.
疫情爆发后，霸蛮米粉60多家门店大部分“收入归零”，巡店时间大大减少，但在家办公依然保持原有的工作作息，早上6点起床后，先思考两小时：“这个时候绞尽脑汁，多死点脑细胞，可能公司就会多一点生路。
After the outbreak of the epidemic, most of the more than 60 stores of Tyrannosaurus Rex have zero income. However, the number of hours they spend visiting their stores has been greatly reduced.
”2020年伊始，张天一踌躇满志，发了条朋友圈：“今天起，一天一家新店，开到年三十前。
"At the beginning of 2020, Zhang Tianyi, complacent, sent a circle of friends:" Today, a new store, open until the Chinese New Year's 30.
”过去一年，创立5年的霸蛮米粉迎来快速发展期，按照原计划，2019年岁末和2020年初，张天一要在北京和天津陆续开业十多家新门店。
The past year has seen a rapid expansion of the five-year-old hegemonic rice noodle, with Mr. Zhang scheduled to open more than a dozen new stores in Beijing and Tianjin in late 2019 and early 2020.
1个多月后，“如果能穿越回19年底，我绝对不会再做出年末突击开十几家新店的决策。
More than a month later, "if I could make it back through the end of the 19th century, I would never make the decision to raid a dozen new stores by the end of the year."
”张天一在《一家餐饮企业的28天电商自救》一文中写道。
Zhang Tianyi wrote in "28 days of self-help by a restaurant company."
新店开张刹住了车，但1个月近2000万元的固定支出让张天一喘不过气，“因为我们年前快速开店，确实当时账面资金消耗还是比较多，所以等到疫情来的时候，我们其实不属于上面资金充裕的状况。
The new store came to a halt, but fixed spending of nearly 20 million yuan a month left Zhang breathless. "Because we opened the store quickly a year ago, it was true that the book money was still running out, so by the time the epidemic hit, we were not really in the cash position.
”按照张天一最坏的预估，“如果电商没有起色，没有这块收入填补回来，按收入参与预算为0的情况，3、4个月，公司差不多就不行了。
According to Zhang's worst estimate, "if the business doesn't pick up, if the revenue doesn't come back and the company participates in the zero budget on the basis of revenue, it will be almost done for three or four months."
”从2014年创业至今，“90后”、毕业于北京大学的张天一始终是小有名气的“创业明星”，霸蛮米粉也成长为拥有成熟电商运营经验、500多名员工、年营业额超4亿元的连锁餐饮品牌，但疫情笼罩下，这些数字是成绩，也是压力，“500多个员工，每一个员工背后都是一个家庭”。
Zhang Tian-yi, a 90-year-old graduate of Peking University, has been a well-known startup star since he started his business in 2014. He has grown into a chain restaurant brand with more than 500 employees and an annual turnover of more than $400 million.
接近2月中旬，发工资的日子一天天逼近，张天一最焦虑的时刻来了，“人工、房租支出，同时没有收入，其实从2月10日到2月底，这个时间段是‘生死存亡点’。
As the pay day neared in mid-February, Zhang's most anxious moment came. "Labour, rent, and no income, actually ran from February 10 to the end of February.
”“救命”0账期焦迟楠与张天一的经历，是疫情下数千万中小微企业、创业企业及淘宝天猫商家的缩影。
"Help" 0 account period Jiao ZhiNan and Zhang Tianyi's experience is the epitome of tens of millions of micro-, small- and medium-sized enterprises, startups and Taobao cats.
不久前，清华大学及北京大学联合对995家中小企业展开调研，结果显示，受疫情影响，29.58%的企业2020年营业收入下降幅度超过50%，58.05%的企业下降20%以上，85.01%的企业维持不了3个月生存。
A recent survey of 995 small and medium-sized enterprises conducted by Tsinghua University and Peking University showed that 29.58 percent of enterprises suffered a drop in business income of more than 50 percent in 2020, 58.05 percent of enterprises experienced a drop of more than 20 percent, and 85.01 percent of enterprises could not survive for three months.
“现金是氧气，99%的时间你不会注意它，直到它没有了。
Cash is oxygen and 99% of the time you won't notice it until it's gone.
”巴菲特这句对现金流的评论，意外成为疫情下中小企业生存状况的真实写照。
Buffett's comment on cash flow accidentally became the true picture of the survival of small and medium-sized enterprises under the epidemic.
而对于小微企业来说，给予资金上的“一点阳光”，就足以“灿烂”。
And for micro and small enterprises, to give a bit of "sunshine" on the funds, it is enough to "brilliant."
近期，阿里巴巴在调研走访小微企业时发现，影响其成本的前三名分别是房租、人工和贷款利息，其他还有原材料积压和违约成本等因素，而其中96%的小微经营者资金缺口在100万元以下。
A recent Alibaba survey of micro and small businesses found that the top three costs were rent, labor and loan interest, along with raw-material backlogs and default costs, with 96% of them running short by less than $1 million.
3月2日，阿里巴巴董事局主席兼首席执行官张勇在杭州战疫情促发展工作推进会上呼吁，只要给予小微企业一点支持，他们就能迈过难关。
On March 2, Zhang Yong, chairman and chief executive of Alibaba's board, called on small and micro-enterprises to get through the crisis by giving them a little support.
就在商家告急之际，资金救援火速赶到。
Just as the business was in a hurry, money rushed to the rescue.
据了解，电商平台的回款周期通常在15天到45天不等，甚至更长，张天一坦言，疫情之下，“这15天对我们很关键”。
The payback cycle for e-commerce platforms is known to range from 15 to 45 days, or even longer, Zhang admits that "these 15 days are critical for us" in the face of the epidemic.
同时，天猫商家运营专家亦达表示，疫情对平台上很多商家产生影响，通过收集商家的运营难点，发现大家最大的痛点就是因为物流慢，账期被拉长，导致现金流中断。
At the same time, the sky cat business operation experts also said that the epidemic affected many businesses on the platform, through the collection of business difficulties, we found that the biggest pain is because of slow logistics, elongated account period, resulting in cash flow disruption.
调研数据显示，八成中小商家存在资金短缺，七成同时表示，只要资金链不断，就对生意回暖有信心。
Research data shows that 80% of small and medium-sized businesses have a shortage of funds, 70% said, as long as the chain of funds, the business back warm confidence.
2月10日，每天都在浏览各个合作平台信息的张天一发现，淘宝推出免费“0账期”服务，他第一时间联系公司财务，申请此项服务。
On Feb. 10, Zhang Tianyi, who is browsing through various cooperation platforms every day, discovered that Taobao had introduced a free "0 account period" service. He first contacted the company's finance department to apply for the service.
1天后，人在异乡的焦迟楠也发现了淘宝免费“0账期”服务，二话不说，他也立刻申请。
A day later, people in a foreign country Jiao Qiao Nan also found Taobao free "0 account period" service, without saying anything, he immediately applied.
张天一和焦迟楠均表示，免费“0账期”的申请非常便利，“没有太多麻烦的申报手续”，登录卖家后台轻轻一点，申请成功，发货后，账款即可迅速收到。
Zhang Tianyi and Jiao late Nan said the free "0 account period" application is very convenient, "there is no too many cumbersome filing procedures," login the seller gently backstage, the application was successful, after the shipment, accounts can be received quickly.
“提前收款可以让商家向网商银行申请把在途货款提前垫付出来，不影响担保交易模式的前提下，进一步把账期缩短为0。
"Receiving in advance will allow merchants to apply to the merchant bank for advance payment for goods in transit, without affecting the secured transactions model, further shortening the period to zero."
”阿里巴巴商家扶助小组成员、淘宝行业平台事业部负责人张凯夫表示，在这一过程中，消费者仍受担保交易保护，商家可以立刻提现用于生产经营，其中的资金成本和风险由淘宝平台和网商银行全力承担。
Zhang Khaifu, a member of Alibaba Business Support Group and head of Taobao's business platform, said consumers were still protected by secured transactions and businesses could draw on them immediately for productive use, with the cost and risk fully borne by Taobao platforms and online merchants banks.
据悉，在3月31日之前这项服务都将免费提供，网商银行将在此期间为此垫付500-1000亿的资金借贷规模。
The service is expected to be available free of charge until March 31, during which time Netease will have to pay $50 billion to $100 billion in loans.
在淘宝天猫面向商家的10大举措中，免费“0账期”服务是国内电商平台首次。
Taobao cat in the 10 major business initiatives, the free "0 account period" service is the first time that domestic electric business platform.
张天一介绍道，申请免费0账期服务后，霸蛮第一时间收到累积在天猫“霸蛮食品旗舰店”的200多万元账款，在最焦灼的时刻，“我们一下缓解过来”。
Zhang Tianyi said that after applying for free account 0 period service, Tyrannosaurus first received more than 2 million yuan of accounts accumulated in the "Decepticon Food flagship store," and at the height of the crisis, "let's ease off."
3月之前，霸蛮累计提取约660万元的现金。
By March, the bully had withdrawn about $6.6 million in cash.
焦迟楠也长舒一口气，在免费0账期的支持下，80万元账款回流至银行账户，现在，他每天销售发货金额在8-12万元，“有发货就有回款”，预计3月能有100万元提前回款，大大缓解了公司现金紧张的情况。
Jiao ZhiNan also long sigh of relief, under the support of the free 0 account, 800,000 accounts returned to the bank account, now, he is selling goods in the amount of 80,000-120,000 yuan per day, "there are shipments back," expected in March, a million yuan early payment, greatly easing the company's cash constraints.
据了解，淘宝推出免费“0账期”后，卖家账期平均缩短7.5天。
It is understood that Taobao launched a free "0 account period," the seller's account period on average shortened 7.5 days.
与此同时，支付宝向淘宝买家发出“主动确认收货”倡议，“商家早一分钟收到钱，就早一分活下来的可能。
Meanwhile, Alipay is offering Taobao buyers an "unsolicited confirmation of receipt" initiative. "Businesses who receive money one minute earlier have a better chance of surviving.
” 此外，网商银行还推出利率8折的100亿特别扶助贷款用于复工复产，目前已服务30万商家。
In addition, Netease has launched a special 10 billion yuan loan at a discount of 8 percent to restart production, which now serves 300,000 businesses.
“中小微企业承担了中国大量的就业，疫情之后，流动性和现金流关系到他们的生存。
"MSMEs are taking on a lot of jobs in China, and liquidity and cash flow have a bearing on their survival after the epidemic."
账期缩短一天，回暖就更快一步。
A day's reduction in the account period makes a recovery faster.
”正如长江商学院副院长、金融学教授李海涛所言，淘宝免费0账期服务和网商银行的金融帮扶做法，是“平台牺牲自己的短期利益”，“进行精准滴灌，带来的是千千万万中小微企业的稳定与发展。
As Li Haitao, vice-dean and finance professor at the Changjiang School of Business, points out, Taobao's free zero-account service and Internet merchant bank financial bailouts are "platforms that sacrifice their short-term interests" and "precision drip irrigation brings stability and development to millions of MSMEs."
”缓过神来的张天一，很快利用回款，进行速食米粉产品的再生产以及营销推广活动，在2月28日与主播薇娅合作的直播上，霸蛮一晚销售出300万元的半成品速食米粉。
Zhang Tianyi, who was slow to recover his money, quickly used the money to reproduce and market his rice noodle products, selling $3 million worth of instant rice flour overnight on a live broadcast of the Feb. 28 partnership with the main broadcaster, Vivia.
张天一说，2017年公司看到餐饮零售化的未来，开始研发、推出半成品速食米粉，在疫情的特殊时刻，速食产品和免费0账期“珠联璧合”，“算是救了我们一命”，门店外卖也恢复到过去的30%。
Zhang said the company saw the future of catering retailing in 2017, began to develop, launch semi-finished instant rice flour, at a special time of the epidemic, "quick food products and free 0 account" topaz saved our lives, "and store take-out returned to 30%.
由于人手不足，现在，焦迟楠每天都忙着打包、发货，库里还有20多万双、近七八百万元的童鞋可供销售， 回款也很快被焦迟楠用于正常的持续经营，“比如发货”，同时，金华厂房渐渐复工，开始陆续恢复童鞋生产，这些回款主要用在材料、人工和基础费用上。
Due to the shortage of staff, Jiao Qiao Nan is busy packing and delivering goods every day. There are more than 200,000 pairs of children's shoes, nearly seven or eight million yuan, which are available for sale in the warehouse.
对于寒冬中的焦迟楠来说，尽管受上游原材料缺货、工人少等因素影响，产量恢复还非常有限，但至少再生产“可以提前一点”，保证公司可持续的运转，“有货有需求，才不会存在资金问题。
For Jiao Qiao Nan in the cold winter, although the output recovery is still very limited due to the shortage of raw materials upstream, the small number of workers, but at least production "can advance a little bit" to ensure the company's sustainable operation, "there is a demand for goods, there will be no financial problems.
”。
"
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
淘宝0账期背后：650万商家的“生死救援”。
Taobao 0 account period behind: 6.5 million businesses "life and death rescue."
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "中国经营报";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "淘宝0账期背后：650万商家的“生死救援”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; behind Taobao's 0 account: & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "疫情下的电商生意场，没有“事缓则圆”。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="中国经营报";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
