那些复工的年轻人，上一次班要经历多少磨难？。
How much hardship did the last class have to go through for those young people who returned to work?
每人作者。
Author per person.
每日人物                      。
Daily characters.
每日人物。
Daily characters.
轻商业，懂生活。
Light business, understand life.
。
.
他们都发现，已经很久没有和同事们一起点奶茶了。
They've all found it's been a long time since they ordered milk tea with their colleagues.
陈江和同组的伙伴们在复工后拼过一次，去园区门口拿回外卖后，还要再经历一次测温、登记、消毒、洗手，后来，他们没有再点了。
After returning to work, Chen and his teammates pieced together to pick up the takeout at the gate of the park, then went through another temperature check, check in, disinfect and wash their hands.
文 |史千蕙编辑 | 楚明运营 |山山   1  位于杭州的某大厂员工陈江已经复工两周了。
Chen Jiang, a worker at a large factory in Hangzhou, has returned to work for two weeks.
两周以来的每一天，陈江和同事们可以免费得到两个产自韩国的KF94口罩。
For two weeks now, Chen and his colleagues have been able to get two KF94 face masks from South Korea for free.
他查了价格，在网上，这样的口罩一个要卖34元。
He checked the price, online, such a mask to sell for 34 yuan.
他跟同事开玩笑说，现在即使啥都不做，每天也能赚34元——因为他只用一个口罩，另一个存起来。
He joked to his colleagues that he now earns 34 yuan a day even if he does nothing - because he only uses one mask, and the other keeps it.
口罩急缺，他不敢奢侈。
He was too short of masks to afford luxury.
每天要戴着口罩在室内坐8个小时，闷。
Sit indoors in a mask for eight hours every day, stuffy.
但也不能轻易解开，每隔一小时，陈江公司的物业会上楼检查一次大家的口罩佩戴情况。
But also not easy to untie, every one hour, Chen Jiang's property will go upstairs to check the wearing of everyone's masks.
他会趁着出去抽烟的功夫，悄悄透会儿气。
He'll take the time to go out and smoke and quietly take a breath.
现在连快乐的摸鱼时光也不得不压缩了，在吸烟区，新挂了一块明显的告示牌，建议大家“放松时刻也要注意安全”，不能聚集，不能交谈，默默抽完了就赶紧戴上口罩走人。
Now even the happy fishing time has to be compressed, in the smoking area, a new obvious sign, suggesting that we "relax and be careful to be safe", can not gather, can not talk, silently smoke quickly put on a mask to walk.
吴佩是安徽一家国企的财务，她每天能领一个口罩。
Wu Pei, a state-owned enterprise in Anhui province, can get a mask every day.
复工第一天下午4点左右，因为戴了一整天口罩，她突然感觉呼吸困难。
She resumed work at around 4 p.m. on her first day of work, suddenly feeling short of breath because she had been wearing a mask all day.
但即使如此，她也没敢摘下来。
But even then, she did not dare to pick it.
由于工作性质的原因，她的办公室里总会进进出出很多人，放肆地大喘气儿，是一件冒险的事。
Because of the nature of her work, it is always a risk to come in and out of her office and to pant wildly.
在北京一家房地产企业做运营的郑琦，每天可以领至少一个蓝色医用一次性口罩。
Zheng Qi, who runs a real estate company in Beijing, gets at least one blue medical disposable mask a day.
其实，口罩就放在进门处的盒子里，如果脸皮厚，拿一沓都行。
In fact, the mask is in the box at the entrance, if the skin is thick, take a wad of it.
郑琦现在的口罩库存，有一部分来自于公司的发放，另一部分来自朋友的接济。
Zheng Qi's current mask inventory, in part from the company's distribution, and part from the support of friends.
袁泉所在的媒体公司发绑带型口罩，每天一个——需要对着教学视频，专门腾出时间来学习如何穿戴的那种。
Yuan Quan's media company distributes bandage masks, one a day - and needs to be shown in instructional videos to make time to learn how to wear them.
袁泉形容，戴上就跟小龙女一样，“脑袋边上飘着白绳”。
Yuan Quan described wearing on the same as the dragon girl, "head fluttering white rope."
她也把公司发的口罩存起来，然后用自己的。
She also saves the company's mask and uses her own.
2月11日，国务院发布了一则规定：企业复工要为职工配发口罩等防护用品。
On February 11, the State Council issued a regulation: enterprises to return to work to provide staff with respirators and other protective equipment.
但落地到实践的过程中，这项规定并不能百分百被执行。
However, in practice, this rule can not be 100% implemented.
南京的齐敏在一家留学中介工作。
Qi Min in Nanjing works as an intermediary for studying abroad.
复工前，公司答应每天都会给员工发口罩。
Before resuming work, the company promised to give its employees face masks every day.
允诺只持续了一天，到了2月25日，复工第二天，人事告诉他们，口罩没有了。
The promise lasted only one day, until 25 February, the day after the resumption of work, they were told that the mask was no longer there.
公司接下来的一系列操作，更让他们摸不着头脑：员工拿不到应该发的口罩，但口罩可以单个卖给有需要的员工，3.5元一个。
The company's next series of operations left them even more confused: employees couldn't get the masks they were supposed to wear, but the masks could be sold individually to staff in need for $3.5 a mask.
并且，每个前来咨询的学生，都可以免费得到5个口罩——这甚至被写进了招生的宣传文案里。
And, for every student who comes to the consultation, five face masks are available free of charge - even written into the admissions literature.
齐敏和她的同事们闲聊，如果口罩真的没有了，那怎么办？他们开玩笑说，哺乳期的同事可以把防溢乳垫用起来，还可以多囤一点尿不湿，大不了就把尿不湿围在头上出门，反正，现在买尿不湿比买口罩容易多了。
Qi Min and her colleagues chatted about what to do if the mask was missing, joking that lactation colleagues can use anti-overflow pads and hoard a little more urine than wet.
▲图/ 视觉中国   2  搞定了口罩，仅仅是能够复工的必要条件。
Graph / vision China 2 completed the mask, is only able to resume work the necessary conditions.
要想回去上班，还必须突破重重关卡。
To get back to work, you have to break through many barriers.
朱迪的工作单位在北京市朝阳区的中心地带。
Judy's work is in the heart of Beijing's Chaoyang district.
复工第一天，身份证上的武汉户籍差点让她连楼都上不去。
Back to work on the first day, the identity card on Wuhan almost so that she did not even go upstairs.
然而事实上，她甚至都没有在湖北的家里过年。
In fact, however, she did not even spend the New Year at her home in Hubei Province.
陈江所在的杭州推行“健康码”，只要有绿色的二维码，就可以乘坐公共交通工具。
The city of Hangzhou, where Mr. Chen lives, has a "health code" that allows public transport as long as it has a green two-dimensional code.
但他发现，进入健康码得点好几次，且公交车司机们大多凭肉眼识码，只要是绿色的，就可以上车。
But he found that entering the health code several times, and bus drivers are mostly naked-eyed, as long as it is green, can get on the bus.
陈江有熟人会把绿码截图，保存在相册里，然后出示给司机看——他们同样顺利地上车了。
An acquaintance of Chen Jiang would keep the green code screenshot in an album and show it to the driver - and they got on the bus as well.
和陈江相比，袁泉的上班路显得更艰难险阻一些。
Compared with Chen Jiang, Yuan Quan's way to work appears more difficult and dangerous.
她住得离公司远，在以前，她有时候坐地铁，有时候打车。
She lived far away from the company. In the past, she used to take the subway and sometimes take a taxi.
复工以来，为了防止在地铁上交叉感染，她基本每次都打车去公司。
Since returning to work, she has almost always taken a taxi to the company to prevent cross-infection on the subway.
路况好的时候，一趟要70元，如果堵车，单程要100块出头。
When the road is good, it costs 70 yuan a trip. If it is blocked, it will cost just over 100 yuan one way.
除了路费高，出租车还不好打。
Taxis are not easy to beat except for the high fare.
周一上班的时候，袁泉在小区门口等了一个小时才叫到一辆车。
Yuan Quan waited in front of the neighborhood for an hour to get a car when he went to work on Monday.
吴佩对于复工本身没意见，许多财务软件只有公司的电脑上才有，并且由于相关单位大多没有开工，实际工作量和以前相比减少了一半。
Mr. Wu has no problem getting back to work, many of the financial software is only available on the company's computer, and the actual workload has been halved since most of the units concerned have not started.
让她头大的是，现在上班实在是太麻烦了，而她又是个怕麻烦的人。
What made her head grow up was that it was too much trouble to get to work now, and she was a very troublesome person.
她所在的小区实行封闭制管理，每家每周可以有三次机会，出去一个人，负责采买生活用品。
Her neighborhood is a closed-door system, where each family has the opportunity to go out three times a week and go out alone to buy things.
如果是必须回去复工，则得用红头文件换一张贴在车上的通行证，才能畅通无阻。
If it is necessary to return to work, the red paper must be exchanged for a laissez-passer affixed to the vehicle for unimpeded access.
偶尔，吴佩的妈妈也坐车出门买菜，人数超标，就要被拦下问话。
Occasionally, Wu Pei's mother also goes out by car to buy vegetables, the number of people exceeding the target, will be stopped for questioning.
对于大多数复工的人来说，脑门儿上先来一枪额温枪，意味着一天的工作正式开始。
For most people returning to work, a first shot at the forehead signifies the start of a day's work.
▲上班族们一天的工作，从量体温开始。
Office workers start their day by taking temperature.
图/ 视觉中国电梯被黑黄相间的宽胶带划分了区域，大一些的电梯分成九宫格，小一点的分成四宫格。
Photo / Visual Chinese Elevators are divided into areas with wide black and yellow tape, larger elevators with nine chambers, and smaller elevators with four chambers.
袁泉所在的公司电梯按钮，用保鲜膜包裹了起来，就像以前人家里喜欢用保鲜膜包住遥控器一样。
Yuan Quan's company elevator button, wrapped in plastic wrap, just as people used to use plastic wrap around the remote control.
这还不够，电梯壁上还挂了纸巾，要用纸包住手，再按按钮。
This is not enough, the elevator wall also hung paper towels, to wrap up with paper, and then press the button.
空气里消毒水的味道，即使戴着口罩也可以清晰地闻到。
The smell of disinfectant in the air, even wearing a mask can be clearly smelled.
尽管一层层的防疫设施已经严格到不方便的程度，一些人还是会担心。
Some people will worry, even though layers of anti-epidemic facilities have become too strict for convenience.
吴佩每天在门口量完体温后，需要自己在表格上登记。
Wu Pei took his temperature at the door every day and needed to register on his own form.
桌子上摆了两个盒子，左边的盒子是消毒完毕的笔，签完字后，就把笔放进右边的盒子里，等待着统一消毒。
Two boxes were placed on the table, and the box on the left was a sterilized pen. After signing it, the pen was placed in a box on the right, waiting to be disinfected.
但她仍觉得不放心，从复工的那一天开始，她多了个随身带笔的习惯。
But she still felt uneasy. From the day she returned to work, she was in the habit of carrying a pen with her.
▲在电梯里放置一包纸巾，是疫情期间避免直接接触电梯按钮的常见做法。
Placing a bag of paper towels in an elevator is a common practice to avoid direct contact with elevator buttons during an epidemic.
图/ 网络袁泉为复工做好了万全准备。
Map / network Yuan Quan ready for the resumption of work.
她给自己划定了小小区域，胳膊和脚都不能伸出安全范围。
She had defined herself in a small area where her arms and feet could not reach out safely.
她还带了一盒一次性乳胶手套和酒精喷雾，放在公司。
She also brought a box of disposable latex gloves and alcohol spray on the company.
喝水必须摘下口罩，她就到窗户边再喝。
Water must be taken off the mask, she went to the window to drink.
敞开的杯子也不安全了，她就从家里翻箱倒柜找到一个带盖的保温杯，而在此之前，她从来不用保温杯喝水。
The open glass was no longer safe, and she rummaged through the cupboards to find a covered thermos cup, which she had never used before.
只要离开工位，她就会往自己的脚底喷酒精消毒，手套则在上厕所的时候戴上。
As soon as she leaves her workplace, she sprays the soles of her feet with alcohol, and gloves when she goes to the toilet.
有一次，她去上厕所时发现上一个用厕所的人忘了冲，一瞬间，“气溶胶”“粪口传播”一类的词语就在脑海中出现，像拉响了警报一样。
Once, when she went to the toilet, she noticed that the last person who used the toilet forgot to flush. In a flash, words like "aerosol" and "fecal spread" appeared in her mind like a wake-up call.
她憋着气不敢喘，匆忙逃窜出去。
She fled in a hurry, suffocating.
等到复工的第二周，这些麻烦事儿就消失了，因为她对此感到疲劳了，“爱谁谁吧”。
By the second week of returning to work, the trouble was gone, for she was tired of it.
她所在的部门从第二周开始实行轮班制，大多数时候，办公室里只有她一个人。
Her department had been running shifts since the second week and she was the only one in the office most of the time.
属于她的“安全范围”越来越大，酒精喷雾越来越少用，再碰到忘记冲马桶的同事，她竟然多了一丝理解：想必也是忙着擦手消毒，忘记冲了。
As her "safe area" grew, alcohol sprays dwindled down, and she came across colleagues who forgot to flush the toilet: she must have been too busy wiping her hands and forgetting to flush.
淡定地冲完马桶，回到工位上，晚点再去就是了。
Just flush down the toilet and get back to work. Just go back later.
3  一些隐形的变化正在熟悉的环境里发生。
Some invisible changes are taking place in familiar surroundings.
袁泉发现，她花在吃上的开销比以前更多了。
Yuan Quan found that she spent more on food than before.
由于在家隔离期间吃了太多顿半成品的家常菜，在回到位于CBD地区的办公室后，她开始对“复杂的外卖”展开了报复性消费，比如浇汁意面，手打牛肉做的汉堡，班尼迪克蛋。
After eating too many home-cooked meals in isolation, she returned to her CBD office to retaliate for "complex takeout" items such as spaghetti, hamburgers made from beef, and Bandit eggs.
她算了算，复工以来，恩格尔系数大幅提高，“这一天天的，感觉上班好赔钱。
She calculated that, since returning to work, the Engel coefficient had risen sharply. "The days are coming, and I feel like I'm losing money at work.
”陈江所在的大厂，原本以食堂的种类丰富而引人羡慕，而现在，连黄焖鸡都限量150份供应。
"Chen's big factory, which used to be admired for the variety of its cafeteria, now has a 150-part supply of chicken cacciatore.
每天中午，他都能收到公司内部系统的用餐提醒，上面告诉他今天的用餐时间是几点几分，并且可以选哪一种搭配的盒饭。
Every day at noon, he receives a reminder of the company's in-house system, which tells him what his lunch hour is today, and which lunch box he can choose.
为了防止在就餐期间出现感染，食堂重新安排了座位。
The canteen was rearranged to prevent an infection during the meal.
桌子和桌子间相隔两米，每张桌子上只能有一个人吃饭，就像考试一样。
The table was two meters apart, and only one person could eat at each table, just like an exam.
公司鼓励大家把饭带回工位上吃，因为那样更安全，或者从家里带便当，然后用公司的微波炉加热。
The company encourages everyone to bring food back to work because it's safer to take it home and heat it up in the company microwave.
陈江注意到，复工以来，他所在的那层楼新增了7台微波炉。
Chen noted that since resuming work, seven microwave ovens had been added to his floor.
▲陈江公司的食堂，明确提示员工用餐时“与他人保持适当距离”。
Chen Jiang's canteen, clearly reminds employees to eat "to maintain an appropriate distance from others."
图/ 受访者供图和陈江一样，郑琦公司的食堂原本是自助餐，现在也改成了配送盒饭。
Picture / Interviewee: As with Chen Jiang, Zheng Qi's cafeteria, which used to be a buffet, has been converted into a packed lunch.
可选择的范围从满满一桌，缩小到一次性塑料盒里分出的餐格。
The options range from a full table to a single-serving plastic case with a separate tray.
原先，郑琦会在下班后参加公司的瑜伽课，然后再回家。
Previously, Zheng Qi would attend yoga classes at the company after work and then go home.
现在，这项活动也被取消了。
The campaign has now been cancelled.
同样取消的还有严格的打卡制度。
Also canceled are strict card printing system.
在以前，必须上午9点到公司打卡，超过每个月能够宽限的迟到次数，就要扣钱。
In the past, you had to punch in at 9: 00 in the morning. You had to deduct money if you were late more than once a month.
现在，哪怕超过10点才去公司，也没关系了。
Now, it doesn't matter if you go to the office more than 10 o'clock.
和袁泉一样，郑琦所在的公司也施行轮班制。
Like Yuan Quan, Zheng Qi's company also operates a shift system.
她一周去公司一两次，具体周几去上班，则是由同事安排好，提前一周告知她。
Once or twice a week, when she goes to work, she is arranged by her co-workers to let her know a week in advance.
即使去了公司，她也是一个人面对着电脑工作，也见不到同事们。
Even if she went to the company, she was working alone in front of the computer and could not meet her colleagues.
如果要开会，也依然是开线上电话会。
If you have a meeting, it's still an on-line phone call.
郑琦揣测，要求员工回公司上班，可能是出于工作效率的考虑，然而，她觉得自己在家和在公司的效率差不多高，如果要算上被重重防疫关卡磨损的耐心，可能在家效率还更高一些。
Ms. Zheng speculates that requiring employees to return to work may be driven by productivity concerns, but feels she is just as efficient at home as she is at the company, and may be more efficient at home if she counts the patience worn out by the numerous barriers.
即使坐在同一个办公室里，大家也尽量不说话。
Even when sitting in the same office, people try not to talk.
陈江和他的直属领导只隔着三个工位，在往常，由于领导看消息不那么及时，有急事的时候他会直接到领导旁边当面说。
Chen Jiang and his immediate supervisor are separated by only three workstations. Usually, he goes to the leader and talks directly to him when there is something urgent.
现在，领导回复消息依然不那么及时，在这种时候，他选择给领导打个电话。
At a time when the leader's response is still not timely, he has chosen to call the leader.
他所在的组一共20个人，有几个同事虽然回到了杭州，但还处在14天隔离观察期，于是，需要开会的时候，大家坐在工位上，打开自己的办公软件，然后戴着口罩打语音电话。
His group of 20 people, several of whom returned to Hangzhou but were still under 14 days of quarantine, sat in their desks, opened their office software and made voice calls using masks when the need arose.
他们都发现，已经很久没有和同事们一起点奶茶了。
They've all found it's been a long time since they ordered milk tea with their colleagues.
陈江和同组的伙伴们在复工后拼过一次，去园区门口拿回外卖后，还要再经历一次测温、登记、消毒、洗手，后来，他们没有再点了。
After returning to work, Chen and his teammates pieced together to pick up the takeout at the gate of the park, then went through another temperature check, check in, disinfect and wash their hands.
陈江还发现自己多了个脸盲的毛病，以前他不是这样的。
Chen also found himself with a face-blindness that he had not experienced before.
有时在电梯里碰到一起合作过的同事，俩人一人站在九宫格的一个角里，同事和他打招呼，陈江单凭上半张脸认不出来那是谁，只能跟着回一句“好久不见”。
Sometimes in the elevator to meet a co-workers, two people stand alone in a Jiuyangge corner, colleagues greeted him, Chen Jiang alone can not recognize the upper half of the face, can only be followed by a "long time no see.
一切都被包裹起来了，人们的下半张脸，电梯里的按钮，专车司机的座位。
Everything was wrapped up, people's lower faces, the elevator buttons, the driver's seat.
熟悉的世界被包上了一层隔膜，变得陌生而异样。
The familiar world is wrapped in a diaphragm and becomes alien and alien.
一天下班后，袁泉坐在出租车里，外面下起了雨，窗户上的水滴反射着北京傍晚的夜空，即使是晚高峰时期，也没有往日的车水马龙。
One day after work, Yuan Quan was sitting in a taxi. It began to rain outside. Water droplets from the windows reflected the evening sky in Beijing.
在以前，袁泉最喜欢这种“雨在窗外，我在车里”的感觉了，但现在，她开始想，雨滴里和泥巴里，会不会有病毒呢？▲图/ 《无法成为野兽的我们》剧照（应访谈对象要求，文中均为化名）每人互动你在复工时遇到哪些麻烦事儿？文章为每日人物原创侵权必究。
Yuan Quan used to like the feeling of "Rain outside the window, I'm in the car," but now she begins to wonder if there is a virus in the raindrops and mud.
每人作者。
Author per person.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
已喜欢，对作者说句悄悄话。
Like it, whisper to the author.
发送给作者。
Send to author.
最多40字，当前共字。
Up to 40 words, currently in common.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
那些复工的年轻人，上一次班要经历多少磨难？。
How much hardship did the last class have to go through for those young people who returned to work?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "每日人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; everyday & quot;.
var msg_title = "那些复工的年轻人，上一次班要经历多少磨难？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; How much hardship did your last class experience with those returning to work?;
var msg_desc = "隐形的变化正在熟悉的环境里发生。
var msg _ desc = & quot; invisible changes are occurring in familiar surroundings.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="每日人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; everyday & quot;.
