那时候，李医生坐在高考考场上。
At that time, Dr. Li sat in the entrance examination room.
冯超。
Feng Chao.
商业人物                      。
Business people.
商业人物。
Business people.
定义中国商业力量。
Defining China's commercial power.
作者：冯超来源：商业人物（ID：biz-leaders)壹2004年，李医生参加高考。
Author: Feng Chaoyuan: Business Person (ID: biz-leaders) In 2004, Dr. Li took part in the college entrance examination.
当时非典刚过去一年。
It was just over a year ago.
语文作文题是材料写作，原题如下——记者采访一位名人的母亲时说：“您有这样出色的儿子，一定会感到十分自豪。
The journalist interviewed the mother of a famous man and said, "You will be very proud to have such a wonderful son.
”母亲赞同地说：“是这样。
"The mother agreed," Here it is.
不过，我还有一个儿子，也同样使我感到自豪，他正在地里挖土豆。
But I'm also proud of my son, who is digging potatoes in the field.
”这位母亲的话令人深思。
"The mother's words were thoughtful.
功成名就，确实让人骄傲；但平凡充实，也足以令人自豪。
To be successful is indeed a source of pride; but commonplace enrichment is also a source of pride.
请结合自己的经历和感受，就“平凡与自豪”这个话题写一篇文章。
Please combine your experiences and feelings and write an article on the topic of "Ordinary and Pride."
不知道李医生的800字作文写了什么。
I don't know what Dr. Li wrote in his composition of 800 words.
2020年2月7日这天，梨视频采访了李医生的母亲。
On February 7, 2020, Li's mother was interviewed in a pear video.
母亲说起儿子：“可惜孩子，孩子没挺过来，34岁，他非常有潜力，非常有才华的孩子……”李医生是辽宁人，所在省份是自主命题。
The mother said of her son, Pitifully, the child did not make it through, and at the age of 34, he had great potential and was a very talented child.
那年，他的试卷上没有非典。
He didn't have SARS on his test that year.
但采用全国理科综合卷1的考生，第一题就是SARS。
But use the national science integrated volume 1 examinee, the first question is SARS.
题目是这样的——在临床治疗上已证实，将受SARS病毒感染后治愈患者（甲）的血清，注射到另一SARS患者（乙）体内能够提高治疗效果。
It has been clinically proven that treating a patient (a) with a SARS virus and injecting him into another SARS patient (b) can improve the outcome of the treatment.
甲的血清中具有治疗作用的物质是：A．疫苗  B．外毒素  C．抗原  D．抗体在那场决定命运的考场上，李医生考了609分，到武大上学，后来成为一名医生。
The therapeutic substances in A's serum are: A. Vaccine B. External Toxins C. Antigen D. Antibodies In the fateful examination room, Dr. Li got 609 marks to attend martial arts university and later became a doctor.
有的人，要写好平凡与自豪的作文。
Some people, to write a good ordinary and proud composition.
有的人，要做对一道关于非典的选择题。
Some people, to do a right choice of SARS questions.
贰李医生这波人属于85年左右的人。
Dr. Li belongs to a group of about 85 years old.
他们的父母辈，大多是1965左右的人。
Their parents, mostly from around 1965.
父母的年纪，比那个“张爸”，上海华山医院感染科主任张文宏大几岁。
The age of the parents, than that "Zhang Dad," Shanghai Huashan Hospital infection department director Zhang Wenhong several years older.
父母是革命年代出生，长身体的时候碰上贫穷，营养跟不上，学知识的时候，又遇上山下乡。
Parents are born in revolutionary times, long body encountered poverty, nutrition can not keep up with, when learning knowledge, and encountered the countryside.
他们记忆中的第一次灾难，应该是1976年造成24万人死亡的唐山大地震。
The first disaster they remembered was the Tangshan earthquake that killed 240,000 people in 1976.
那年，他们10岁左右。
They were about ten that year.
恢复高考、改革开放后，他们依然艰苦奋斗。
After resuming college entrance examination and reforming and opening up, they still struggle hard.
那些参加高考的，都用一张卷子。
Those who take the college entrance examination use a paper.
1984年，作文是让考生谈一谈中学作文的现象。
Directions: For this part, you are allowed thirty minutes to write a composition.
这个现象是“学生无话可说，只好东拼西凑，说一些空话套话，甚至编造一些材料”。
This phenomenon is "students have nothing to say, have to scrape together, say some empty talk, even fabricate some materials."
1985年，让考生给《光明日报》写一封信。
In 1985, candidates were asked to write a letter to Guangming Daily.
90年代，60后早已成家，孩子都长大了，但他们又遭遇国企下岗潮、98年大洪水。
In the 1990s, after 60 long after starting a family, children have grown up, but they also encountered the state-owned enterprises laid off, the 1998 floods.
这大概是他们成为家里顶梁柱后，第一次直面时代的困难。
This was probably the first time they had faced the difficulties of the times since they became the backbone of their family.
他们得硬扛。
They had to carry it hard.
李医生的父母就在那时候下岗的，下岗后没有正经工作，一直打零工做零活，供孩子上学。
Li's parents laid off at that time, laid off from work without real work, has been doing odd jobs for children to go to school.
2020年的60后，成了新冠肺炎的高风险人群。
By 2020, 60 years later, the population is at high risk for pneumonia.
武汉市中心医院医生梅仲明、江学庆因感染新冠肺炎后殉职。
Wuhan central hospital doctors Mezhongming, Jiang Xueqing died after contracting new crown pneumonia.
他们分别生于1962年、1964年。
They were born in 1962 and 1964, respectively.
还有些去世的人，我们不知道他们的名字。
There are also dead people whose names we do not know.
而那些农村出生的60后，是新中国的第一代农民工群体。
Those born in rural areas 60 years later, is the first generation of migrant workers in New China.
国家统计局2018年的一份数据称，中国农民工总数是28836万人，其中50岁以上占比22.4%，老年农民工的占比近5年都在提高。
A 2018 National Bureau of Statistics report that the total number of migrant workers in China is 28.8.36 million, of whom 22.4 percent are over 50 years old.
他们还在为健康码、通行证奔波，等着通路，收拾行囊去外地打工。
They are still running for health codes, passes, waiting for access roads, packing up their bags and going to other places to work.
叁李医生参加高考的2004，考生是729万。
Dr. Sanli sat for the College Entrance Examination in 2004, with 7.29 million candidates.
而2003年，非典爆发那年，考生是613万。
In 2003, when SARS broke out, the number of candidates was 6.13 million.
总共1300多万人。
Altogether more than 13 million people.
高考时，他们多是17、18岁。
At the college entrance examination, they were mostly 17 or 18 years old.
他们开始成年。
They began to come of age.
成熟的标志，是学会明辨是非，学会记忆那些重要的事情。
The mark of maturity is to learn to distinguish between right and wrong and to learn to remember important things.
他们不会忘记2003年的高考，因为非典期间的这次高考，其难度系数之高，在改革开放后历届高考里着实罕见。
They will not forget the 2003 college entrance examination, because the SARS period of the college entrance examination, the difficulty coefficient is very high, after the reform and opening up of the university entrance examination really rare.
高考时间由7月调整到6月的7号、8号。
The time for the college entrance examination will be adjusted from July to June 7th and 8th.
考试时间是在2002年就确定的，主要考虑到7月天气炎热。
The examination dates back to 2002, mainly taking into account the hot weather in July.
但因为非典，学校停课，复习时间又紧张。
But because of SARS, the school closed, review time is also tense.
有些考生一个月不洗澡，怕感冒发烧被隔离。
Some candidates do not bathe for a month, afraid of catching a cold and feverish isolation.
当这些考生戴着口罩，过了体温检测安检进入考场后，遇到一份全国卷数学题。
When the candidates wearing masks, after the body temperature testing security into the examination room, encountered a national volume of math problems.
这张满分150分的数学卷子，能拿到70分就是高分了。
This maths paper with a full score of 150 is a high score of 70.
几年前，一个高考命题组的人接受澎湃采访谈说，这份卷子开创了高难度数学的先河，是恢复高考以来的峰值。
A few years ago, a member of the college entrance exam team told a roaring interview that the paper set the pace for difficult mathematics and was the peak since the resumption of college entrance exams.
高考前夕，四川有个考生偷了试卷，震惊全国。
On the eve of the college entrance examination, a candidate stole test papers in Sichuan.
据说因此案，启用了高难度的备用卷。
The case is said to have led to the introduction of a difficult backup volume.
中新网的一篇文章说，从数学考场出来后，一位考生见到很多人都在哭，还以为出了什么事在开追悼会。
After coming out of the math exam, one of the candidates saw a lot of people crying and thought something was going on at the memorial service, an article on the website said.
事情还没完。
This is not all.
当时多地是先估分，再填志愿。
Much of it was first estimated and then filled in.
很多人因为数学没考好，分数估得低，又跌进坑，很多应该上一本的，志愿填的二本。
Many people because of math failed to do well, score low, and then fell into the pit, many should be last, volunteer to fill out two books.
肆2020年新冠肺炎时，这些经历过非典高考的人已经34、35岁了。
By the time SARS broke out in 2020, those who had passed the SARS entrance examination were already 34 or 35 years old.
他们中的一些人，此时也在疫情一线。
Some of them, too, are on the line at the moment.
媒体都报道了他们，有些医生还是在03年高考时，被抗击非典的医生事迹感动而报了医学系。
The media reported on them, and some doctors were moved to the department of medicine by doctors fighting SARS during the 2003 college entrance examination.
新冠肺炎。
New crown pneumonia.
刀刻般的记忆。
A knife-cut memory.
因为计划生育政策，他们多是独生子女，他们组建的家庭是4+2+1，双方父母4人，夫妻2人，孩子1人。
Due to the family planning policy, most of them are only children. They form a family of 4 + 2 + 1 with 4 parents, 2 husband and wife and 1 child.
这帮85后，要操心4个老人的健康，要养家。
After 85, they had to worry about the health of four old people and support their families.
他们为生活事业打拼，背着房贷、车贷，他们可能在事业上刚有点地位，孩子今年顶多就10岁多点。
They are struggling with their careers, backpacking mortgages and car loans, and they may be just starting out in business, with their children up to just over 10 years old this year.
这些小孩儿，大多都在家上网课，把小小的怨气撒在网课APP上。
Most of these children, mostly at home online classes, small resentment in the network of APP.
小学生的作文被媒体报道出来。
The pupils' compositions were reported by the media.
有的写父母坚守在一线，有的写自己当医生的妈妈。
Some write parents adhere to the line, some write their mother as a doctor.
这些是孩子们的记忆，讲奉献，讲真善美。
These are children's memories, dedication, truth, beauty and kindness.
财新的总编王烁写了篇文章，讲他如何给孩子讲李医生的故事。
Wang Shuo, editor-in-chief of Caixin, wrote an article about how he told his children the story of Dr. Li.
“孩子虽然小，但也不要低估他们的理解力”，王烁写道。
"Although the children are young, do not underestimate their understanding," Wang Shuo wrote.
每个家长心中，都有新冠肺炎期间医生的故事，有的医生在他们心里已经立了一座碑。
In each parent's heart, there is the story of the doctor during the New Crown Pneumonia, and some doctors have built a monument in their hearts.
面对孩子，这些故事能讲，关键是如何讲。
Facing children, these stories can tell, the key is how to speak.
伍非典时期参加高考的人，正在为生活操劳。
Those who took part in the college entrance examination during the Wu period are working hard for their lives.
而非典时期刚出生的婴儿，已经17岁，90多天后，就要参加2020年高考了。
But the SARS period newborn baby, already 17 years old, more than 90 days later, will take part in the 2020 college entrance examination.
非典那年，广州有一对男双胞胎出生。
A pair of male twins were born in Guangzhou in SARS year.
母亲是全球第一例感染非典的孕妇。
Mother was the first SARS-infected pregnant woman in the world.
她要求剖宫产保住孩子。
She asked for a cesarean section to keep the baby.
家人反对，因为担心她的安全。
The family objected, fearing for her safety.
为了让医生剖宫产，她一度拒绝治疗，导致严重脱水。
She refused to be treated for caesarean section, leading to severe dehydration.
她住院31天后平安出院，但当时早产生下的双胞胎儿子虽然没染上非典，诊断报告是“脑瘫”、“零听力”、“甲状腺低下”。
She was released safely after 31 days in hospital, but her early twin sons were diagnosed with "cerebral palsy," "zero hearing" and "hypothyroidism," although they did not develop SARS.
这个普通家庭的夫妇开始为治疗孩子奔波，掰着指头花钱，每周带孩子去三次医院，在家里摆个铃铛训练孩子听力。
The average couple began to run for treatment, picking up money with their fingers, taking their children to the hospital three times a week and setting up a bell at home to train their children to hear.
两年后，孩子慢慢好转。
Two years later, the child slowly improved.
2013年，非典10年时，《新快报》采访了这个家庭。
In 2013, 10 years after SARS, the New Express interviewed the family.
报道说，这10年里，“非典”成为家庭里的敏感词汇，没有人去提。
In the past 10 years, SARS has become a sensitive word in the family.
记者问一个孩子：“什么是非典？”“是一种病。
Reporter asked a child: "What is SARS?" "It is a disease.
”“还有呢？”“不知道。
"What else?" "I don't know.
”报道中说，2013年这对双胞胎上四年级。
The twins were in fourth grade in 2013, the report said.
2020年的高考，他们可能要参加了。
For the 2020 college entrance exam, they may have to take it.
几天前，河南周口一位高三班主任开网课，哭了好几次：“有些同学是在2003年非典那年出生的，而高考又赶上新冠病毒，今年参加高考的话，对同学们的影响应该还是比较大的。
"Some students were born in 2003 when SARS was born, but the university entrance examination caught up with the new crown virus. This year's entrance examination will have a greater impact on students.
”陆除了担忧今年高考是否如同03非典高考的高难度之外，学生们还在猜测今年高考作文会不会考新冠肺炎。
As well as worrying about whether this year's college entrance exam will be as difficult as the 03 SARS college entrance exam, students are still wondering if it will test for the new crown pneumonia this year.
98年洪水，没有出现在当年高考作文里。
The 1998 flood did not appear in the composition of the college entrance examination.
03年非典，也没有出现在当年高考作文里。
SARS in 2003, also did not appear in the composition of the college entrance examination.
当时舆论就作文会不会是非典而讨论了一个多月。
Public opinion at that time on the composition will be SARS and discussed for more than a month.
人民网上，有论者反对将非典放到高考作文里。
On the People's Web, some commentators oppose putting SARS in college entrance examination compositions.
他们的理由是，第一，高考是考察学生的理性认识和思维深度，非典要是出题，可能是机械的“崇高”、“正义”、“勇敢”、“无私”等“道德概念”，学生施展不开；第二，非典的各类题材的报道已经泛滥，太容易搬运了。
The reason is that, first, the college entrance examination is to examine students rational knowledge and depth of thinking, if the SARS issue, it may be mechanical "noble," "justice," "brave," "selfless" and other "moral concepts," students can not exercise; second, SARS has been the subject of a proliferation of reports, too easy to move.
不过，2008年高考题全国卷1的作文题，却是紧扣5.12汶川地震。
However, in 2008, the National Test Question 1 essay title, but closely linked to the Wenchuan earthquake of May 12.
这一年，我在河南参加高考。
This year, I took the college entrance examination in Henan.
备考期间，我记得默哀时，阳光炙烤，同学们流着眼泪。
During the preparation for the exam, I remember silence, the sun broiling, students shed tears.
我收集了汶川地震的新闻报道，找了几篇文章疯狂背诵。
I collected news reports on the Wenchuan earthquake and found some articles to recite crazily.
报纸上有篇文章引用了思想家帕斯卡尔的一句话：人是一根能思想的苇草。
An article in the newspaper quotes the thinker Pascal as saying that man is a reed that can think.
进了考场，我想方设法地在作文的某个段落里写下这句话。
Having entered the examination room, I managed to write this sentence in one of the passages of my composition.
当时不知这句话的深意，引用名言，是个套路。
At that time did not know the meaning of this sentence, quote famous words, is a routine.
无论今年作文考不考新冠肺炎，这帮非典出生的学生都在准备素材。
Whether this year's composition exams do not test for the new crown pneumonia, these SARS-born students are preparing materials.
他们恰好在一个社交媒体爆发的时代，相比过去，他们能接触到的疫情消息更多。
They happen to be in an age of social media outbursts, and they have more access to information about the epidemic than they did in the past.
在这次疫情里，一座数字博物馆已经慢慢建立起来。
In this epidemic, a digital museum has been slowly built.
碎片的信息被慢慢拼起来，私人的记忆、日记也被保存、传播。
Fragments of information are slowly pieced together, and personal memories and diaries are preserved and disseminated.
这是宏大叙事之外，私人的作文，与私人相关的珍贵历史。
This is a grand narrative, in addition to personal essays, related to the private precious history.
到6月7日，这1000万恰逢成年的考生，将带着一份新冠肺炎的记忆进入考场。
By June 7, the 10 million adults will be entering the examination room with memories of a new crown pneumonia.
柒非典参加的高考人，正在抗击新冠肺炎。
The college entrance examination in Qi is fighting the New Crown Pneumonia.
非典出生的人，正在备战新冠肺炎之年的高考。
The SARS-born is preparing for the college entrance examination in the year of New Crown Pneumonia.
而新冠肺炎之年出生的中国婴儿的数量预计还是1000万。
The number of Chinese babies born in the year of pneumonia is still estimated at 10 million.
媒体上，那些感染的孕妇，有的提前剖宫产，有的坚持治疗已出院。
In the media, those infected pregnant women, some early cesarean section, some insist on treatment has been discharged.
这一段记忆，暂时由那些在产检路上担惊受怕，又担心奶粉钱的父母保管。
This section of memory, temporarily by those who are worried about the way the maternity examination, but also worried about the milk powder money parents keep.
也有孕妇，离开人世。
Pregnant women, too. Died.
澎湃新闻报道说，湖北黄冈的翁某，1月9日，验孕棒查出怀孕；10日，生病；21日，去世。
Huangchang, Huanggang, Huangpai news reports, January 9, pregnancy test detected pregnancy; 10, sick; 21, died.
她的家庭生活本就拮据。
Her family life was already cramped.
丈夫花完借来的20多万元医疗费后，病情并无好转，签下放弃治疗的同意书。
The husband spent more than 200,000 yuan borrowed medical expenses, the illness did not improve, signed the waiver of consent to treatment.
死亡证明上写着：重症肺炎、呼吸衰竭、感染性休克。
The death certificate reads: Severe pneumonia, respiratory failure, septic shock.
那时，她的死亡跟新冠肺炎的关系并不确定。
At the time, the link between her death and pneumonia was uncertain.
她去世不久，国家出台了新冠肺炎免费治疗政策，含括了确诊和疑似病患。
Shortly after her death, the country introduced a free treatment policy for pneumonia, including diagnosis and suspected patients.
捌一代人有一代人的记忆，它们成砖成墙，压在人的背上，组成了历史。
Dutian generations of memory, they are brick wall, pressure on the back of people, constitute history.
参考资料：王琛，新快报，《全球首例感染非典孕妇回忆10年前生产时感受》。
Reference: Wang Chen, New Express, The World's First Case of SARS Pregnant Women Recall the Feeling of Childbirth Ten Years Ago.
*头图购买于视觉中国推荐阅读严正声明：“商业人物”所有原创文章，转载均须获授权。
* Headline purchase in Visual China Recommended Reading Solemn Statement: All original articles and reprints of "business people" must be authorized.
一切形式非法转载，包括但不限于盗转、未获“商业人物”授权通过第三方转载行为，均属侵权行为，“商业人物”将公布“黑名单”并追究法律责任。
All forms of illegal reproduction, including, but not limited to, theft and unauthorized reprinting by a third party without the authorization of a "business person," who will publish the "blacklist" and will be held liable.
“商业人物”只愿与尊重知识产权的机构合作。
"Business people" are willing to cooperate only with institutions that respect intellectual property rights.
投稿、约访、合作，联系邮箱：bizleaders@qq.com添加微信biz-leader，获转载授权或邀您加入商友群微信名：商业人物微信ID：biz-leaders1.长按右侧二维码即可关注。
Subscriptions, interviews, collaborations, contact mailboxes: bizleaders @ qq.com, get permission to reprint, or invite you to join the microphone group of business people: micro-ID: biz-leaders1. Click on the two-dimensional code on the right.
2.期待您置顶与星标。
2. Expect you to place your top and star.
欢迎分享与评论，欢迎通过留言或私信方式给我们提供选题线索。
Welcome to share and comment, welcome to leave a message or private letter to us to provide clues to the topic.
3.点击“阅读原文”，看商业人物官网，获取更多精彩内容。
3. Click on "Read the original text" to see the official website of business people, to get more wonderful content.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
那时候，李医生坐在高考考场上。
At that time, Dr. Li sat in the entrance examination room.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "商业人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
var msg_title = "那时候，李医生坐在高考考场上";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; At that time, Dr. Lee sat at & quot; at the college entrance examination.
var msg_desc = "人无再少年。
var msg _ desc = & quot; no juvenile at all.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '武汉B面：封城下的经济重镇',。
Wuhan B: At the top of its economy & apos; & quot; & quot;.
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '这两位富豪，败给了特朗普',。
:: These two rich men lost to Trump and AT & apos;.
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '跨越太平洋的轮值老人',。
AT RATE & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="商业人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
