武汉医生口述：1/4同事被感染，口罩不合格也按时进病房。
Wuhan doctor dictation: 1 / 4 colleague is infected, the face mask disqualified also enters the ward regularly.
刘以秦。
Liu Yiqin.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
“1月31日，最新通知下来了，由于医院各科室医护人员减员情况严重，医院决定每个科室留5名医生倒班，每班6小时。
"On January 31, the latest announcement came as hospitals decided to keep five doctors in each section to work shifts of six hours each, due to severe staff attrition in various hospital sections.
这样的值班时长对于已经连续奋战了10天的医护人员来说危险系数很高。
Such duty hours are highly dangerous for medical staff who have been fighting for 10 days in a row.
但医护人员现在不允许请假，除非被感染。
But paramedics are not allowed to take leave unless they are infected.
”文 |《财经》记者刘以秦编辑 | 谢丽容截止1月31日12点，中国新型冠状病毒感染肺炎确诊病例9723人，疑似病例15238人，死亡人数213人，治愈人数178人。
By 12 o'clock on January 31, China had 9,723 confirmed cases of new coronavirus infection with pneumonia, 15,238 suspected cases, 213 deaths and 178 cures.
武汉是此次疫情爆发的源头区域，也是目前病患数量最多的城市。
Wuhan is the source of the outbreak, and is the largest number of patients at present.
严峻疫情背后，最令人关注的就是医院。
Behind the severe outbreak, the greatest concern is the hospital.
1月22日，为应对发热病人因无序就医带来交叉感染和疾病传播问题，武汉市确定“7+7”模式，即在城区7家大型医院附近，选择7家二级公立医院作为发热门诊定点医院，专门收治发热病人。
On January 22, in response to the problem of cross-infection and spread of disease among febrile patients due to disorderly medical treatment, Wuhan City decided to adopt the "7 + 7" model, whereby seven level II public hospitals will be selected as fever clinics near seven major hospitals in urban areas to treat febrile patients.
7家大医院分别为：同济医院、协和医院、武大人民医院、武大中南医院、市一医院、市中心医院、市三医院。
The seven major hospitals are Tongji Hospital, Concorde Hospital, Wu Da People's Hospital, Wu Da Zhongnan Hospital, City One Hospital, Central Hospital and City Three Hospital.
7家二级公立医院为：市汉口医院、市红十字会医院、市七医院、市四医院西软区、市九医院、市武昌医院、市五医院。
The seven secondary public hospitals are: City Hankou Hospital, City Red Cross Hospital, City Seven Hospital, City IV Hospital West Soft District, City Jiu Hospital, City Wuchang Hospital, City Five Hospital.
为了让病患就近就医，这些医院大多分散在各个不同区域，其中多家医院并非专业的传染病医院，1月22日当天，武汉市政府下达应急任务安排，对这些医院进行改造，搭设应急隔离隔断。
In order to bring patients closer to them, most of these hospitals are scattered in different regions. Many of them are not specialized hospitals for infectious diseases.
1月30日，上述“7+7”中的一家三甲公立医院一线医生接受了《财经》记者采访。
On January 30, one of the "7 + 7" public hospital front-line doctors told Caijing.
自疫情扩散后，从1月21日开始，他已经连续10天没有离开医院，目前病房爆满，医护人员超负荷运转，已经出现医护人员交叉感染。
Since the outbreak spread, he has not left the hospital for 10 consecutive days since the outbreak began on 21 January, with overcrowded wards, overstretched medical staff and the emergence of cross-infections among medical personnel.
近日随着各地医院支援队伍的加入，他们开始逐步缓解压力。
Recently, with the addition of hospital support teams from around the world, they gradually began to relieve the pressure.
以下是这位医生的口述，或有利于外界更多了解武汉抗击疫情最前线的各种艰难。
The following is the doctor's dictation, or help the outside world to learn more about Wuhan in the front line of the fight against the epidemic.
应这位医生的要求，我们将医院名称和医生姓名隐去，只如实记录他的叙述：“10天，约30名医护人员，7人感染”我们科室一共有10名医生，大约20名左右的护士（护士是流动作业的，具体人数并不固定），截至1月29日，仅我们科室共出现疑似感染医护人员7人。
At the request of the doctor, we concealed the name of the hospital and the name of the doctor, recording only his account: "For 10 days, about 30 medical personnel and 7 people were infected." In our department, there were 10 doctors and about 20 nurses (nurses are mobile and the number is not fixed).
如果把范围扩大到全医院的话，截止1月27日，也就是29日的前两天，疑似感染医护人员61名，都出现了发烧、肺部CT有问题的情况。
By January 27, the first two days of Jan. 29, 61 health-care workers were suspected of contracting fever and pulmonary CT problems, if the coverage were expanded to include the entire hospital.
如果是在正常情况下，我们整个医院都要被隔离了，但现在是非常时期，医护人员太紧缺了。
In normal times, our entire hospital would have been quarantined, but now we're in an emergency, and medical staff is in short supply.
目前轻症的医护人员就自行在家隔离，有两位同事已经住院，其他未有症状的同事还在正常上班。
At present, light medical staff are isolated at home, two colleagues have been hospitalized, and other colleagues without symptoms are still at work.
造成集中交叉感染的主要原因之一，是我们在疫情还未大规模流行之前，没能做好防护工作。
One of the main causes of concentrated cross-infection is that we failed to do a good job of protection before the epidemic began on a large scale.
1月16日，我们收治了一名我们医院的老病人，因为状况加重来住院，当时他还没出现肺炎症状，我们给他做了相应治疗，病患的血液都溅到了护士身上，当时护士只穿了简易的防护服。
On 16 January, we admitted an old patient from our hospital, who had been hospitalized because his condition had worsened and he had not developed pneumonia, and we treated him accordingly, spilling the patient's blood on the nurse, who was wearing only simple protective clothing.
1月18日，我们开始知道有疫情发生，这名病人出现咳嗽、发烧症状，立刻给他做了肺部CT，发现了问题。
On January 18, we began to learn of an outbreak. The patient developed cough and fever, and he was given a lung CT scan and found problems.
事后复盘，我们怀疑当时这个病人传染了某个护士，我们医护人员平时就一起工作、吃饭，造成了交叉感染。
Returned the table later, we suspect that the patient infected a nurse, we medical staff work and eat together, resulting in cross-infection.
前两天，这位病人去世了。
The patient died two days ago.
还有一个问题是我们没有足够的防护装备，很多时候我们都是在没有达到防护标准的情况下，就进了污染区。
Another problem is that we don't have enough protective equipment, and most of the time we go into contaminated areas without meeting the protection standards.
我们医院里所有的医护人员，戴的口罩都是不同品牌不同型号的。
Our hospital all the medical personnel, wearing masks are different brands of different models.
昨天晚上我值晚班，进病房之前，我看到配发的口罩，觉得不合格，但是我没有时间犹豫。
I was on night duty last night, and before I entered the ward, I saw the mask I had been given. I felt unqualified, but I had no time to hesitate.
我们的值班周期是4小时轮班，因为口罩和防护服必须4小时换一次，我如果晚进去一分钟，里面的同事就增加一分风险，所以，我只能立刻戴上，进去。
Our duty cycle is four-hour shifts, because masks and protective clothing have to be changed every four hours. If I get in a minute late, my colleagues in the room increase their risk, so I have to put them on immediately and get in.
此时，我们是同事，更是战友。
At this point, we are colleagues, but also comrades.
从病房出来后，我看到微信群里有消息说，这个口罩只是普通的防尘口罩，是外面捐来的物资，不具备医疗防护功能。
After coming out of the ward, I saw news in the microphone group that the mask was just a regular dust mask, donated from outside and without medical protection.
在防护装备上，自从疫情扩散后，我们时时刻刻面临这样的问题，吃了上顿，没有下顿。
In terms of protective equipment, we have been faced with this problem all the time since the spread of the epidemic.
1月31日，最新通知下来了，由于医院各科室医护人员减员情况严重，医院决定每个科室留5名医生倒班，每班6小时。
On 31 January, an update was issued, in which the hospital decided to retain five doctors per section for six-hour shifts, owing to the high attrition of medical staff in various sections of the hospital.
这样的值班时长对于已经连续奋战了10天的医护人员来说危险系数很高。
Such duty hours are highly dangerous for medical staff who have been fighting for 10 days in a row.
但医护人员现在不允许请假，除非被感染，否则无法休息。
However, medical staff are now not allowed to take leave and cannot rest unless they are infected.
我理解医院的压力，但也不想拿自己的身体开玩笑。
I understand the pressure on the hospital, but I don't want to joke about my body.
科室几个医生包括我在内，虽然没有症状，都出现晚上畏寒，食欲不振，生物钟紊乱的状况。
Several doctors in the department, including me, although no symptoms, appear at night fear of cold, loss of appetite, disorders of the biological clock.
我们也已经向院方领导反映防护服时效性的问题，被告知没有商量的余地。
We have also raised the issue of the timeliness of protective clothing with the hospital leadership and have been told that there is no room for consultation.
社会上有很多帖子提到武汉有不少病人高度疑似（新冠病毒感染）但无法就医的问题，从医护人员的角度来说，我们真的尽力了，直到今天。
There are many posts in Wuhan mentioned that a lot of patients are highly suspected (new crown virus infection) but no access to medical care, from the medical point of view, we really tried to do, until today.
过去一段时间，我们收到了大量来自社会各界的物资募捐，非常感谢社会各界的支援，对物资紧缺问题也有一定的缓解。
Over the past period, we have received a large amount of donations from various sectors of the community.
但其中真正符合医院标准的物资数量并不多。
But not many of them actually meet hospital standards.
我们在值班结束后都需要去搬运物资，很多物资运送车进不了武汉，或者进不来清洁区，都需要我们去接应。
We need to carry supplies after the end of the duty, many goods delivery vehicles can not enter Wuhan, or can not enter the cleaning zone, we need to meet.
Play现在我们接收物资之前，会提前讲清楚需要的型号，以免浪费社会资源，也担心热心人士买到假冒伪劣产品。
PlayNow, before we receive the goods, we will specify the models we need in advance, so as not to waste our social resources, and we worry that enthusiasts will buy fake and inferior products.
还担心出现物资冒领问题，之前微信群里有一个图片写的是我们医院接收捐赠的联系电话，但是那个电话并不是我们的，我们怀疑出现了物资诈骗问题，具体情况还未调查清楚。
Also worried about the problem of material fraud, there was a picture of our hospital receiving donated contact phone numbers, but that phone call is not ours, we suspect that there has been material fraud, the details of which have not been investigated.
“各地医疗支援队赶来了，部分缓解了压力”我第一天去发热门诊，是“7+7”刚刚落定的1月22日，我们接到通知时，政府已经对外公布了定点医院的名单，中间几乎没有准备的时间。
"Medical support teams from all over the country came to relieve some of the stress." My first day at the fever clinic, just before the 7 + 7 was set for January 22, we were notified that the government had published a list of designated hospitals with little time to prepare.
当天，大量病人涌入，但我们还要转移已有的病人，以及做病房改造工作，所以并没有足够的病床空出来。
There was a huge influx of patients, but we had to move existing patients and do the room work, so there were not enough beds available.
虽然开了这么多医院，但是患者数量太大，新开的几家医院，第一天就住满了。
Although so many hospitals have been opened, the number of patients is too large, the new hospitals, the first day full.
我们开了住院证之后，会留电话，如果有空床位会打电话，但还有很多病人在医院门口等待。
When we had a hospital certificate, we would leave a phone call, and if there were free beds, there would be a lot of patients waiting outside the hospital.
当天，病人排队时间超过6小时的比比皆是，很多病人情绪不好，大哭的，争吵骂人的，打砸的情况很多，这几天社区医院开始分流发热病人，各大医院也都开了发热门诊，情况有所缓解，但问题仍然存在。
On the same day, patients queued for more than six hours, many patients in bad mood, crying, squabbling, many instances of battering, these days community hospitals began to shunt fever patients, major hospitals have opened fever clinics, the situation has eased, but the problem remains.
我们开了住院证之后，会留电话，如果有空床位会打电话。
When we have a hospital certificate, we leave a phone call and call if we have a spare bed.
虽然很多医院都开始接收病人，但病人数量实在太多，大量的病人拿到了住院单也无法住院，只能等待床位空出来。
Although many hospitals are beginning to accept patients, the number of patients is so high that large numbers of patients get hospital bills and cannot be hospitalized, waiting for beds to become available.
和每天新增病例数目相比，治愈的病例显得非常少，很多时候床位能空出来，是因为病人去世了。
Compared to the number of new cases per day, the number of cured cases appears to be very low, and in many cases the beds are available because of the death of the patient.
我看门诊的时候，一位女性患者跟我说，她丈夫已经感染了，都不知道能不能熬过今晚，我看了她的肺部CT，告诉她80%的概率是新冠肺炎，而且已经很严重了，我给她开了住院单，但也只能告诉她目前没有床位，得登记排队，她当时就情绪崩溃了。
When I was at the clinic, a female patient told me that her husband was infected and didn't know if he would survive tonight. I looked at her lung CT and told her that the 80% probability was new crown pneumonia and it was very serious.
这个病人后来去哪了，我也不知道。
Where the patient went later, I don't know.
我同学的父亲发烧已经一个多星期了，症状高度疑似，他们天天给我打电话问能不能住院，我也没有办法，他只能自己在家隔离、吃药。
My classmate's father has had a fever for more than a week, the symptoms are highly suspected, they call me every day to ask if I can be hospitalized, I can not do, he can only isolation at home, take medicine.
目前我们医院开放了600张床位，已经全部住满，核定是开放800张床位，但还要进行清洁区、污染区、潜在污染区以及医生生活区的改造工作，所以目前只有600张。
At present, we have 600 beds in the hospital, fully occupied, with an authorized capacity of 800 beds, but there are still work to be done on cleaning areas, contaminated areas, potential contaminated areas and the living quarters of doctors, so that there are currently only 600.
我们现在对病患的治疗都只能是对症治疗，不舒服就吸氧，用传统抗病毒药物，目前确实没有特效治疗药物，病患情绪都很紧张。
We can only treat patients with symptomatic treatment, uncomfortable on the oxygen, with traditional antiviral drugs, there is no specific treatment drugs, patients are nervous.
医护人员主要是疲惫，要连轴转，几乎没有休息时间，目前看起来形势仍然不乐观。
Health care workers are mainly tired, have to turn around, almost no rest time, the situation still does not look optimistic.
我是直到1月29日才得知具体的确诊流程，先要科室筛选，上报医院，医院再上报到区里。
I was not informed of the specific diagnosis process until January 29, the first section to screen, reported to the hospital, the hospital reported to the district.
每个科室每天只有3-5名病患有检测机会，第一批1月29日报上去，至今没有确诊结果。
Only three to five patients per day from each unit had access to testing, and the first daily reports, dated 29 January, had no confirmed results.
也就是说，我们医院的600名病患，还处于“高度疑似”的阶段。
In other words, the 600 patients in our hospital are still in the "highly suspect" stage.
这几天陆陆续续各地的医疗支援队也已经赶到，对于外部援助团队统一都是第一天先安排住宿，休息，第二天直接上岗，去门诊或是病房支援。
Over the past few days, a trickle of medical support teams has arrived. External assistance teams have been unified for the first day of accommodation, rest, the next day of direct duty, outpatient or ward support.
目前外地医疗队已经在医院工作了。
The field medical team is already working in the hospital.
这些医护人员的到来，确实能缓解医院的压力，他们都是呼吸科和重症科的专家，比我们更专业。
The arrival of these paramedics does relieve the pressure on hospitals, who are specialists in respiratory and intensive care, and are more professional than we are.
但是我们科室到现在还没有外地医护人员支援，主任一直在向医院申请支援，还没有结果，我们的预测是，其他科室的人员比我们更紧张，更危急。
But so far our department has no support from overseas medical staff. The director has been applying to the hospital for support. Our prediction is that other departments are more nervous and critical than we are.
医院改造工作还在持续进行，还未完全达到标准，后续会陆续再开放一些病房。
The rehabilitation of hospitals is ongoing and is not yet fully up to standard, with a number of additional wards to follow.
我们院不是传染病医院，相关的医疗装备也不充足，但因为定点医院需要覆盖多个区域，让病人就近就医，我们医院是所在区域内最大的医院，所以被纳入定点医院。
Our hospital is not an infectious disease hospital and the related medical equipment is inadequate, but since the designated hospital needs to cover multiple areas and bring patients closer to them, our hospital is the largest in the region and is therefore included in the designated hospital.
目前雷神山和火神山医院都在建，很快可以开放，外部支援也越来越多，这给我们带来新的希望。
The fact that both Raytheon Mountain and Mount Fire Hospital are under construction and will soon open up, with increased external support, gives us new hope.
我们现在都住在医院对面，医院给安排的，便于第一时间响应，饭食也是医院统一供给，还有不少是社会上的餐馆捐赠，另外家住得比较远的医护人员，还有爱心车队帮忙接送。
We are now living across the hospital, the hospital arranged for the first time to respond to, meals are also provided by the hospital, there are many more social restaurant donations, the more distant medical staff, and the love of the convoy to help transport.
专家预计2周后疫情情况会有所缓解，总体会持续2-3个月，我相信是这样的，对抗疫情，我们都有信心。
Experts expect the situation to ease after 2 weeks, and it will last 2-3 months overall. I believe so, we all have confidence in fighting the epidemic.
本文由树木计划作者【财经杂志】创作，独家发布在今日头条，未经授权，不得转载新型冠状病毒疫情系列报道▷ 点击图片查看责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Written by Caijing Magazine, this article is the first of its kind to be published by Caijing magazine. It is not authorized to reprint or mirror the new coronavirus epidemic.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉医生口述：1/4同事被感染，口罩不合格也按时进病房。
Wuhan doctor dictation: 1 / 4 colleague is infected, the face mask disqualified also enters the ward regularly.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉医生口述：1/4同事被感染，口罩不合格也按时进病房";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; Wuhan & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "“1月31日，最新通知下来了，由于医院各科室医护人员减员情况严重，医院决定每个科室留5名医生倒班，每班6小时";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; "At & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
