同志情侣在疫情一线|“生命所系，性命相托。
"Gay couples at the top of the epidemic." Life is at stake.
我守百姓健康，你守一方平安”。
I keep the people healthy, you keep a safe place.
路LRH。
Road LRH.
亲友会北京分会                      。
Friends and Family Association Beijing Branch.
亲友会北京分会。
Friends and Family Association Beijing Branch.
关注后可以及时知悉北京分会活动信息、获取各类LGBT领域最新资讯。
After the attention can be promptly informed of the activities of the Beijing chapter, access to the latest information in the LGBT field.
。
.
“招呼好乐乐、可可。
"Say hello to good music and cocoa.
”登机后，晓阳立即给男友林峰发了微信，不放心他们一起养的两只宠物，其实是更不放心男友。
"After boarding the plane, Xiaoyang immediately to her boyfriend Lin Feng hair micro-letter, do not trust them to keep two pets together, in fact, is more insecure boyfriend.
“你才要照顾好自己。
"You have to take care of yourself.
”“要登机了吗？”“那俩小的你不用担心。
"Do you want to board the plane?" "Don't worry about the little ones.
”“一落地记得给我打个电话。
"" Remember to give me a call as soon as you land.
”男友光速回复了四条微信。
"Her boyfriend responded to four micromessages at light speed.
2月2日下午14点，晓阳作为赴武汉志愿医疗支援队的医护人员，登上了出征武汉的飞机。
February 2 at 14: 00 p.m., Xiaoyang as a volunteer medical support team to Wuhan, boarded the aircraft.
这是关机前他和男友林峰的对话。
It was a conversation between him and his boyfriend, Lin Feng, before shutting down.
2月2日星期日的凌晨，晓阳收到本院领导的微信，准备好个人物品，待命。
In the early morning hours of Sunday, February 2, xiao yang received a letter from the head of the hospital, ready for personal belongings, stand by.
终于要奔赴疫区了。
I'm finally heading for the epidemic area.
虽然上交请战书的时候他就做好了准备，然而在接到的通知的那一刻，晓阳还是有些惶恐。
Although he was ready to hand in his invitation, Xiaoyang was still a little apprehensive at the moment he was notified.
他是第二批医疗队里资历最浅的一个，面对这场浩大的疫情，面对每天不断上涨的感染和死亡人数，他说“说不害怕，那是假的。
He was the junior member of the second medical team and, in the face of the epidemic and the rising number of infections and deaths every day, said, "No fear, that's not true.
”但晓阳曾支援过甲流、禽流感的疫情，也曾奔赴汶川参加地震后的医疗援助。
But Xiaoyang has supported outbreaks of swine flu and swine flu and traveled to Wenchuan for medical assistance after the quake.
他知道：“穿上了白衣，救死扶伤就是我的天职。
He knew, "It is my vocation to wear a white coat and save lives and injuries.
”上午男友就陪晓阳出门买东西，“买了很多东西，用得到用不到的东西，只要想到他就全部都买上了。
"In the morning her boyfriend went out shopping with Xiaoyang." He bought a lot of things that he didn't need and bought them all just thinking about him.
”男友把晓阳送到医院，看着晓阳和同事们一起宣誓，给他照相。
Her boyfriend took Xiaoyang to the hospital and watched him take pictures with his colleagues under oath.
临走时林峰把自己妈妈给晓阳准备的护身符放到他的书包里。
Before he left, Lin Feng put the talisman his mother had prepared for Xiaoyang in his schoolbag.
让晓阳感觉“挺暖的”。
Let Xiaoyang feel "quite warm."
油画作品《白衣天使》晓阳当了一辈子医生的老爸也叮嘱：“千万做好防护，进病房时一定互相检查一下防护措施是否到位，对病人要耐心细致，要做好战胜各种困难的思想准备。
Oil painting "Angel in White" Xiaoyang doctor's father also ordered: "Do a good job of protection, when entering the ward must check each other's protective measures in place, patients should be patient and meticulous, ready to overcome difficulties of all ideological preparation.
”晓阳心道：“老大夫说的真好，儿子记住了。
"The old doctor said so well, and the son remembered," said Xiaoyang.
17年前你和妈共同参加了抗击SARS的战斗，17年后，换儿子去和新冠肺炎斗争了，老子英雄儿好汉，我不会输的。
Seventeen years ago, you fought SARS with your mother. Seventeen years later, I won't lose by changing my son to fight Newcastle Pneumonia.
”在机场，朋友带着物资来给晓阳他们送行，说好不哭的，结果朋友还是抱着晓阳哭成了泪人。
At the airport, friends brought supplies to see Xiaoyang off, saying they would not cry.
晓阳对她说：“好啦，我会完完整整安安全全的回来的，别担心。
Xiaoyang said to her, "Well, I'll come back safe and sound. Don't worry.
”晓阳一行赴武汉志愿队的医护人员，很多人的老公老婆、男友女友都来相送，他们有的拥抱，有的手拉着手，但林峰只能远远地在人丛中给晓阳照相。
"The medical staff of Xiaoyang's volunteer corps in Wuhan, many of whom were accompanied by their husbands' wives and boyfriends and girlfriends, hugged each other and held hands, but Lin Feng had to photograph Xiaoyang from afar in the crowd.
看着那些相互依偎的夫妻、情侣，而自己和伴侣只能远远相望，晓阳说：“有点嫉妒他们。
"Looking at couples and couples clinging to each other and seeing each other from afar," Xiao Yang said, "is a little jealous of them.
”晓阳30岁，林峰38岁，两个人在一起六年半，一起住了四年。
Xiaoyang is 30 and Lin Feng is 38, two people have lived together for six and a half years and four years together.
父母知道两个人的关系，虽说不明确反对但也不支持。
Parents know the relationship between two people and do not support it even if it is not explicitly opposed.
“北京，北京，我要走啦。
"Beijing, Beijing, I'm leaving.
真心地希望，我回来的时候。
I sincerely hope that when I come back.
我们能摘下口罩，看到彼此的微笑！”专机上的135人都是支援武汉的医生护士，他们将出现在疫情最严重的地方，迎接即将到来的战斗。
We can take off our masks and see each other's smiles! "The 135 people on the plane, doctors and nurses who are supporting Wuhan, will be in the worst place for the upcoming fighting.
16:34，晓阳和同事们抵达武汉天河机场。
Xiao Yang and his colleagues arrived at Wuhan Tianhe Airport.
到了武汉的第二天，晓阳就通过医生同行了解到，情况仍然危急，很多病人在苦苦等着医院的床位。
The day after his arrival in Wuhan, Xiaoyang learned from his doctor's colleagues that the situation was still critical and that many patients were waiting for hospital beds.
虽然得知医院在征选医护人员上前线后，晓阳立即报了名，但这次疫情如此严重，让他也很忐忑，“新型冠状病毒通过呼吸道、飞沫传染，新发现还可以通过粪口传播，病毒可能快速变异，是否还有新的传染途径也不知道。
He was scared by the severity of the outbreak. "The new coronavirus is transmitted by respiratory tract, foamy, and by feces. The virus may mutate rapidly and no new routes of transmission are known.
”原定支援一周，但看到武汉这么严谨的疫情形势，晓阳觉得可能要待到疫情得到控制为止。
"Originally scheduled for a week, but given Wuhan's rigorous epidemiological situation, Xiaoyang felt it was likely to wait until the outbreak was brought under control.
现在疫区医疗物资紧张，为了这次战役，晓阳他们医院把防护服都支援武汉的医院了，所以大家没带防护服，说是武汉的医院里会有，但今天了解到，他们支援的这家医院，防护设备也很少。
Now the epidemic area medical supplies are tight, for this battle, Xiaoyang their hospital to support the hospital in Wuhan, so everyone did not wear protective clothing, said Wuhan hospital will have, but today learned that they support the hospital, protection equipment is very small.
而且也没有生活用品，要自己准备。
And there is no daily necessities to prepare themselves.
男友带的东西到了现场发现有的用不上。
Boyfriend brought things to the scene found that some do not need.
今晚就要投入工作，晚上就有病人入住，所以晓阳趁着下午的一会空闲，到超市来生活必需品。
Work tonight, there will be patients in the evening, so Xiaoyang will take advantage of a free afternoon, to the supermarket to live necessities.
除了脸盆牙刷之外，晓阳还买了不少成人纸尿裤，因为防护服严重短缺，每套防护服要尽量穿得长一点，每次工作至少五六个小时，如果上厕所，就要脱防护服，穿脱要很长时间，再穿新的防护服之前要洗澡，洗至少半小时，所以为了省时间、为了不多耗费防护服，医护人员会穿着纸尿裤工作，小便就在防护服内的纸尿裤里解决。
In addition to a washbasin toothbrush, Xiaoyang has bought a number of adult diapers because there is a serious shortage of protective clothing. Wear protective clothing for at least five to six hours at a time. If you go to the toilet, take a shower for at least half an hour before wearing a new suit.
晓阳所在医院开辟出几十张床位，专门接收新冠肺炎的危重病人。
The hospital in Xiaoyang has opened dozens of beds for critically ill patients suffering from Newly Coronary Pneumonia.
今天晚上晓阳就要投入战斗。
Xiaoyang is going to fight tonight.
男友其实不想让晓阳来，很担心，但还是“很识大体”地选择支持晓阳的工作。
Boyfriend does not want to let Xiaoyang come, very worried, but still "very sensible" choice to support Xiaoyang's work.
这个春节晓阳和林峰都没过好。
This Spring Festival Xiaoyang and Lin Feng are not good.
整个假期晓阳都在医院支援，而林峰工作是警察，也是在防疫一线，这段时间经常要到室外工作，去火车站这样人流非常密集的地方巡查，保障群众安全。
Throughout the holiday Xiaoyang hospital support, and Lin Feng work is the police, also in the frontline epidemic prevention, this time often have to work outdoors, to train stations such very crowded places to patrol, to ensure public safety.
林峰说晓阳的工作状态他很理解，也早已习惯。
Lin Feng said that Xiaoyang's working state he was very understanding, has long been used to.
“在哪？病人什么情况？那好，我马上去！！”晓阳挂上电话就开始穿衣服，经常凌晨睡眼惺忪，就被突如其来的电话惊醒。
"Where? What's the patient like? Well, I'll go right away!" Xiaoyang hung up the phone and began to dress.
晓阳轻手轻脚起身，麻利的套上衣服，简单收拾一下，就悄悄带上门走了。
Xiaoyang light feet up, quickly put on clothes, simple packing, quietly closed the door and left.
林峰不再装作没被吵醒，伸手感受着那一半温暖的被窝，久久不能睡去。
Lin Feng is no longer pretending not to be awakened, hand felt the half of the warm quilt, a long time can not sleep.
只有心里默默祈祷：“在生与死的抢救线上，我愿你有最佳的状态，来应对各种最糟糕的情况。
Only silent prayer in my heart: "In the rescue line between life and death, I wish you the best to deal with the worst of all.
亲爱的宝啊，病人健康平安！你早点归来。
Dear Bao, the patient is healthy and safe! You returned earlier.
”晓阳是医院急诊室的男护士，每天遇到的都是或者危重或紧急的病人，男护士在科室里“身强力壮”，总是要干得更多一些。
Xiaoyang, a male nurse in the hospital emergency room, encountered patients every day who were either in critical or urgent condition, and male nurses in the department were "strong" and always had to do more.
晓阳总是穿着一袭绿衣，一双白布鞋，带着一顶带有卡通图案的护士帽，干练敏捷，不怠慢，不犹豫，守护患者的健康。
Xiaoyang always wears a green dress, a pair of white cloth shoes, wearing a nurse's hat with cartoon pattern, skilful and quick, do not neglect, do not hesitate to guard the health of patients.
身为同志，更有同理心，也更会体贴人，他的眼眸里流露出的关怀，常常给病区的病人们带来温暖。
As a comrade, more empathy, but also more considerate, his eyes exude concern, often to bring warmth to patients in the sick areas.
家有个医疗工作者，这种夜里出诊的情况，林峰早已司空见惯。
There is a medical worker, this kind of night out of the situation, Lin Feng has long been used to.
有一次，一个寒风凌冽的冬日傍晚，林峰牵着晓阳的手送他去上班。
Once, a chilly winter evening, Lin Feng led Xiaoyang's hand to take him to work.
前面一条街就到医院了，突然前面嘈杂一片，原来有人晕倒。
In front of the street to the hospital, suddenly noisy front, the original someone fainted.
晓阳加快脚步，挤了人群，蹲下身子，跪在冰雪夹杂的路面，检查起倒地者的情况。
Xiaoyang quickened his pace, squeezed the crowd, squat down, kneel in the snow and ice mixed road, check the situation of the fallen.
倒地者没了意识，没了呼吸，没了心跳，晓阳回头冲林峰喊“快打120！”，之后立即俯下身子，开始按压。
Fallen on the ground no consciousness, no breathing, no heartbeat, Xiaoyang back to the Lin Feng shouted "hit 120!", then immediately bent down, began to press.
还不忘回头喊着：“有没有家属？”1、2、3、4，非常用力，天气很冷，哈气在口鼻间弥漫，晓阳就一直跪在雪地上。
Still remember to call back: "Have family?" 1, 2, 3, 4, very hard, the weather is very cold, the breath filled between the mouth and nose, Xiaoyang has been kneeling on the snow.
急救车来了，晓阳跟上车，一车人疾驰而去，林峰也赶忙跑回家——为晓阳找干衣替换膝盖湿了的裤子。
The first-aid car came, xiaoyang with the car, a car rushed away, Lin Feng rushed home - for xiaoyang find dry clothes to replace the knee of wet pants.
家里有个护士，心里除了理解，更多的是一份浓浓的歉意，因为林峰是警察，工作时间同样随叫随到。
There is a nurse at home, in addition to understanding, more is a deep apology, because Lin Feng is a police officer, working hours are also available.
随时突发的警情，让他很多次抛下同样辛劳的晓阳，匆忙离家出警。
At any moment of alarm, let him many times left the same hard-working Xiaoyang, hastily left the police.
小小的二人世界里，总有着这样那样的紧急情况，一个出诊，一个出警，仅有的相伴时光里，时常会遇到打扰。
In a world of two people, there are always emergencies of this kind, a home visit, a police officer, the only accompanying time, often encounter disturbances.
如何权衡，如何取舍，如何兼顾？互相的支持，是他们两个的选择。
How to weigh, how to choose, and how to balance? Mutual support is their choice.
他们知道：生命所系，性命相托。
They know that life depends on life.
一个要守百姓健康，一个要守一方平安。
One shall keep the people healthy, and the other one shall keep peace.
林峰经常去接晓阳下班，在来去匆匆的人群中寻找那顶小花帽。
Lin Feng often goes to pick up Xiaoyang from work, in the rush of people looking for that little hat.
看到医生和护士们身着象征着生命的绿色忙碌，他们穿梭在需要护理的病人之间，宛若天使。
Seeing doctors and nurses dressed in green as a symbol of life, they shuttled between patients in need of care, as angels.
父母知道晓阳和男友的多年感情，但态度一直不是很支持。
Parents know Xiaoyang and her boyfriend's feelings for many years, but the attitude has not been very supportive.
我在问晓阳这篇稿子想要发在大众公众号上吗，他说想发在亲友会的号上，就想让同志家长们看到，同志孩子也是很有责任感、很有担当的。
I'm asking Xiaoyang if this post is going to be posted on a popular public sign. He said he wanted to post it on the family and friends' club.
希望疫情早点过去。
Hopefully the outbreak will be over soon.
今晚晓阳就要穿着防护服开始为病人奔忙。
Xiaoyang will be wearing protective clothing tonight to start the work for the patients.
祝晓阳早日平安归来，希望所有的白衣天使都健康平安！（为采访当事人的职业未来考虑，删掉了他们提供的图片，并改为化名）。
I hope that all the white angels will be healthy and safe as soon as possible! (In order to interview the future of their career, delete the pictures they provided, and change their aliases).
路LRH。
Road LRH.
谢谢观赏。
Thank you.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
已喜欢，对作者说句悄悄话。
Like it, whisper to the author.
发送给作者。
Send to author.
最多40字，当前共字。
Up to 40 words, currently in common.
谢谢观赏。
Thank you.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
同志情侣在疫情一线|“生命所系，性命相托。
"Gay couples at the top of the epidemic." Life is at stake.
我守百姓健康，你守一方平安”。
I keep the people healthy, you keep a safe place.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "亲友会北京分会";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "同志情侣在疫情一线|“生命所系，性命相托。
Var msg _ title = & quot; gay couples at & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
我守百姓健康，你守一方平安”";。
I keep the people healthy, and you keep company safe.
var msg_desc = "同志白衣天使，我们等你凯旋！";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; comrade-in-law angel, we waited for you to return!;
var title ="亲友会北京分会";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
