抗疫一线|晓阳与林峰：“我们的情人节”。
Hsiao Yang and Lin Feng: "Our Valentine's Day."
路LRH。
Road LRH.
亲友会北京分会                      。
Friends and Family Association Beijing Branch.
亲友会北京分会。
Friends and Family Association Beijing Branch.
关注后可以及时知悉北京分会活动信息、获取各类LGBT领域最新资讯。
After the attention can be promptly informed of the activities of the Beijing chapter, access to the latest information in the LGBT field.
。
.
14号，晓阳和林峰的情人节和宅在家里的情侣的节日一样平淡，甚至更没有节日气氛——两个人都在工作。
14, Xiaoyang and Lin Feng's Valentine's Day is as mundane as the domestic lovers' holiday, or even less festive - both are at work.
情人节早上，林峰对晓阳说“要去社区执勤了”，林峰他们要管理多个社区，让社区居民不要随便出门。
On Valentine's Day morning, Lin Feng told Xiaoyang "to go to the community on duty," Lin Feng they have to manage a number of communities, let the community residents do not go out.
还要去高速路口，检查过往车辆，测体温。
We need to go to the motorway, check traffic, take temperature.
北方现在仍然很冷，14号这天下过大雪，林峰还带着单帽子，口罩蒸腾出的哈气在帽檐上结了霜。
The north is still very cold, 14 days after the heavy snow, Lin Feng is also wearing a single hat, the mask steaming breath frosted on the brim.
林峰拍了张帽子的照片给晓阳，然后问晓阳的却是，“降温了，你那衣服够不够？”林峰执勤时的警帽14号武汉下了雨，15号下了雪，医院给晓阳发衣服了，冲锋衣和羽绒衣，都可以御寒。
Lin Feng took a picture of a hat for xiaoyang, and then asked xiaoyang, "the temperature, your clothes are enough?" Lin Feng duty cap No. 14 Wuhan rain, under the snow on the 15th, the hospital for xiao yang hair clothes, sub-machine suits and down jacket, can protect against the cold.
“我们这里，生活物质很到位，防护物资还是紧缺的，比如还缺面屏，防护装备都要省着用。
"We have a lot of material in place here, and there is still a shortage of protective equipment, such as face screens, to save on protective equipment.
”情人节当天，晓阳上的是1点到5点的班。
On Valentine's Day, Xiaoyang runs from 1 to 5 o'clock.
临进病区，晓阳还和林峰视频了，看到林峰口罩没戴好，晓阳说了林峰半天。
Linjin disease area, Xiaoyang and Lin Feng video, see Lin Feng mask did not wear well, Xiaoyang said Lin Feng half a day.
下午3点，晓阳所在的重症病区，来了一位危重病人，情况很不好。
At 3: 00 p. m., a critically ill man arrived in the critical area of Xiaoyang, and the situation was very bad.
病人70多岁，“危重病人都是年龄大的，年轻的特别少，”晓阳说。
Patients in their 70s, "are very old and very young," says Xiaoyang.
重症病区50张床，都没有闲着的，“40位病重10来位病危，已经去世了一位。
There were 50 beds in the intensive care area, none of them idle. "Forty people are seriously ill - about 10 - and have died.
但有些病情有好转了。
But some are getting better.
”因为防护服不透水，像是塑料布，穿久了，防护服就容易胀气，晓阳在给病人做气管插管时，病人的分泌物喷了出来，喷在了面屏上，让林峰很紧张。
Because protective clothing is impervious to water, such as plastic sheeting, protective clothing tends to swell when worn over time. When the patient is given a trachea intubation, the patient's secretions are sprayed out and sprayed on the screen, making Lin Feng very nervous.
随后在做心肺复苏时，防护服一下子爆了。
Then the suit burst while performing cardiopulmonary resuscitation.
因为情况紧急当时就用胶布贴了一下，然后才离开。
Because the emergency situation was then taped with a tape, then left.
“这算是职业暴露。
"It's professional exposure.
”非常危险，晓阳一下子很害怕。
It was very dangerous, and Xiaoyang was frightened at once.
下班后，晓阳仔细地消毒、洗澡，悬着的心才稍微放下一点。
After work, Xiaoyang carefully disinfect, bathe, hanging the heart just a little less.
晓阳很担心被传染，昨天组里有一个人发热了，因为没有那么多试剂盒，所以要先观察，让同事非常焦虑。
Xiaoyang is very worried about the infection, yesterday a person in the group feverish, because there are not so many test kits, so to observe first, let colleagues very anxious.
晓阳坦承：“我们工作时间不长，但很累，心累。
"We do not work long hours, but we are tired and tired.
”晓阳也开始焦虑起来。
Xiaoyang, too, began to fret.
跟林峰说了后，林峰很担心，气得骂晓阳“你傻啊，啥也往前冲！”晓阳下班后脱下防护服的手臂，四肢都有勒痕下班后，晓阳和回到家的林峰视频了，嘱咐林峰出去时多穿一点，视频时通过林峰的镜头晓阳看了看家里的猫，大的那只在墙角卧着，一动不动。
With Lin Feng said, Lin Feng very worried, angry Xiaoyang "you stupid ah, what also rushed forward!" Xiaoyang after work took off the arm of protective clothing, limbs are strangled after work, Xiaoyang and home Lin Feng video, ordered Lin Feng to wear more, video through the lens of Lin Feng looked at the family cat, the big one in the corner of the wall, motionless.
“我朋友以前打过人家，所以它很怕他，不是很愿意和他亲近。
"My friend has beaten people before, so he's afraid of him and doesn't want to be close to him.
”情人节的时候，林峰会给晓阳送花，但从来不送红玫瑰，而是白玫瑰和蓝玫瑰。
For Valentine's Day, the Lin Summit gives xiao yang flowers, but never red roses, but white roses and blue roses.
“因为情人节都要上班，所以只能送到办公室，在办公室里，别人不知道我的情况，我也没有女朋友，送红玫瑰别人会问来问去。
"Because Valentine's Day has to go to work, so had to send to the office, in the office, other people do not know about me, I do not have a girlfriend, send red roses people will ask questions.
”视频时，林峰自责地对晓阳说：“今年没有玫瑰花了，现在外卖都不派送了。
"There are no roses this year," Lin said to Xiaoyang scolding himself during the video.
”每到情人节，情侣们会约会，或者是想着法子浪漫，但晓阳和林峰反倒要忙工作，情人节很多情侣出来吃饭、约会，造成很多地方人流密集，身为警察的林峰需要更多地执勤。
But Xiaoyang and Lin Feng have to work instead, with many couples coming out to eat and date on Valentine's Day, leading to a high density of people in many places and the need for Lin Feng, a policeman, to be on more duty.
情人节晓阳也是更忙碌的，他说：“情人节时，急诊肯定要比平时更忙，打架受伤的、喝酒喝多的、自杀的比例比平时高，我们自然要更忙。
"Valentine's Day is definitely busier than usual," he said. "We tend to be busier in fighting, drinking too much and killing ourselves more often than usual.
”因为林峰管辖的区域和晓阳的医院在同一个区，2018年他们曾“幸运地”因为工作，一起过了一个情人节。
Because Lin Feng's area is in the same district as Xiaoyang's hospital, in 2018 they were lucky enough to spend a Valentine's Day together at work.
当时林峰正在当班，一个女人在公园里喝药自杀，林峰和同事把女子送到晓阳的急诊科抢救。
Lin Feng was on duty, a woman in the park to drink drugs suicide, Lin Feng and colleagues sent the woman to xiaoyang emergency department rescue.
那天晓阳上的是二线班（一线班7小时下班，二线班24小时下班）。
Xiaoyang that day is the second-line shift (first-line shift 7 hours off, second-line shift 24 hours).
晓阳看到女子时是下午五点多，女子已经陷入深度昏迷，抢救的医生无法知道女子吞服的是什么药物，只能通过洗胃等基本方式来救治，但无法应用抗结剂，见效会慢一些。
Xiaoyang saw the woman is more than 5 p.m., the woman has fallen into a deep coma, rescue doctors can not know the woman swallowed what drugs, can only be treated through gastric lavage and other basic ways, but can not apply anticoagulant, the effect will be slower.
因为家属没来，林峰一直在病房外值班陪护。
Because the family did not come, Lin Feng has been on duty outside the ward escort.
晓阳担心病人不能好转，和林峰商量去公园现场看看，也许能找到服毒的线索。
Xiaoyang worried that patients can not improve, and Lin Feng to discuss the park site to see, may be able to find clues to take poison.
林峰发现病人的现场是在一个街心小公园，已经快12点，公园大门早就锁了，他们找到看门人开锁，在假山周围用手机的手电筒找来找去。
Lin Feng found the patient in a small park in the middle of the street, nearly 12 o'clock, the park gate has long been locked, they found the doorman unlock, around the rockery with mobile phone flashlights.
最后在凉亭里发现一个塑料袋，里面有五个盛放治疗癫痫病药物的药瓶，这种药大量服用就会致死，毒药找到了，解药也好办了。
Finally, a plastic bag was found in the pavilion containing five bottles containing anti-epilepsy drugs, which were taken in large quantities to kill, poison found and the antidote relieved.
回到医院，晓阳把药瓶和药名都告诉了医生，医生找到了对应的抗结剂。
Back at the hospital, Xiaoyang told the doctor both the bottle and the name of the medicine, and the doctor found the corresponding anticoagulant.
凌晨三点多，家属终于来了。
After three in the morning, the family finally came.
简单问询后得知，这个姑娘30多了，未婚，因为感情问题，在情人节这天选择了自杀。
After a brief inquiry, the girl is more than 30 years old, unmarried, because of emotional problems, chose to commit suicide on Valentine's Day.
虽然都在工作，但两个人可以在一起说话，一起救助病人，一起去公园找服毒线索，一路上晓阳披着林峰的大衣，这些都让晓阳觉得很甜蜜很难忘。
Although both work, but two people can talk together, together to help patients, together to the park to find clues to take poison, Xiaoyang wearing Lin Feng's coat, all these make xiao yang feel very sweet and unforgettable.
一直到第二天晚上，陪护了二十几个小时的林峰才和下了班的晓阳一起回了家。
Until the next night, accompanied by more than 20 hours of Lin Feng and the off-duty Xiaoyang together went home.
“我们从来没有像别人那样的甜蜜情人节，”晓阳说。
"We've never had such a sweet Valentine's Day as anyone else," Xiaoyang said.
从2014年6月两个人开始在一起，情人节就总是聚少离多。
From June 2014 onwards, Valentine's Day is a time to get together.
第一个情人节林峰在外学习，两人没见着，林峰异地下单，为晓阳买了别致的蓝玫瑰。
The first Valentine's Day Lin Feng study outside, two people have not seen, Lin Feng off-site order, for Xiaoyang bought chic blue roses.
到了情人节，两个人常常一个上夜班，一个值班，别人还可以用“情人节要团聚”为理由要求下班，晓阳和林峰都是单位同事眼中的单身汉，所以经常在情人节代班。
On Valentine's Day, two people often work one night, one on duty, others can also use "Valentine's Day reunion" to ask for work, Xiaoyang and Lin Feng are seen as single by colleagues, so often in Valentine's Day shift.
而且两个人也不愿出门，有一年的情人节两个人都没工作，就相约一起吃饭，情人节这一天的餐厅都是一男一女吃饭，“我们两个男的坐一起，别人就老用奇怪的眼神看我们俩。
On Valentine's Day, the restaurant is all about one man and one woman. "The two of us sit together and people look at us strangely.
”晓阳说：“我们这种三线城市和北上广还是不一样的，我比较羞涩，之后就不爱出门吃饭了。
"Our three-tier cities are not the same as northbound cities," said Xiaoyang. "I'm shy and I don't like going out to eat.
”晓阳说自己的工作还无所谓，“林峰的工作，要是单位知道了不得了。
"Xiaoyang said their work is still indifferent," Lin Feng's work, if the unit know the wrong.
”公安系统崇尚“钢铁直男”，而且在林峰单位，像林峰这种本科毕业的也并不很多，挺多是中专大专甚至更低学历的，“学历低的，而且素质不怎么好的，会排斥同志。
The public security system advocates "straight steel men," and in Linfeng units, such as Lin Feng undergraduate graduates are not many, quite a lot of college or lower, "low-educated and not very good quality, will exclude gay.
”晓阳说。
"said Xiaoyang.
林峰的情人节礼物也很“直男”，每次都是送花。
Lin Feng's Valentine's Day gift is also very "straight man," each time is to send flowers.
收到玫瑰花后，晓阳也会被同事问是谁送来的啊，晓阳呵呵一笑，并不回答。
After receiving roses, xiao yang will also be asked by colleagues who sent ah, xiao yang hehe smile, do not answer.
“我们单位有个别人知道，我们单位无所谓了。
"We have a few people know that our unit does not matter.
呵呵。
Ha ha.
”16日，北方和武汉雪后都放了晴，天空都湛蓝透亮，让人心情稍微舒展。
"16, both the north and Wuhan after the release of snow, the sky is so blue transparent, people feel slightly relaxed.
职业暴露后两天，晓阳继续上班，暂时没有出现什么症状，心情也稍微“放晴”。
Two days after the occupational exposure, Xiaoyang continued to work, temporarily did not appear any symptoms, the mood is also slightly "sunny."
晓阳还不知道疫情什么时候结束，不知道自己什么时候回家，但他知道又过了两天，离回家的日子更近了。
Xiaoyang did not know when the outbreak would end and when he would return home, but he knew that two more days had passed and that the day was closer to home.
（本文根据晓阳口述整理）。
(The text is dictated by Xiaoyang).
路LRH。
Road LRH.
谢谢观赏。
Thank you.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
已喜欢，对作者说句悄悄话。
Like it, whisper to the author.
发送给作者。
Send to author.
最多40字，当前共字。
Up to 40 words, currently in common.
谢谢观赏。
Thank you.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
抗疫一线|晓阳与林峰：“我们的情人节”。
Hsiao Yang and Lin Feng: "Our Valentine's Day."
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "亲友会北京分会";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "抗疫一线|晓阳与林峰：“我们的情人节”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "平淡的情人节，别样的浪漫";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; plain Valentine's Day; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="亲友会北京分会";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
