餐饮业疫情寒冬：餐厅营收普降八成，外卖小哥一天只接七单。
Food industry epidemic winter: restaurant camp revenue fell 80%, take out only seven small brothers a day.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 财经十一人。
The following article comes from eleven financial experts.
Author 杨立赟。
Author Yang Liyun.
财经十一人。
Eleven finance and economics.
由《财经》杂志公司产业报道团队创建，研讨企业成败，探究行业兴衰，推动阳光商业。
Founded by Caijing magazine's industry report team, it explores the success or failure of enterprises, probes into the ups and downs of the industry, and promotes sunshine business.
相比其它行业，餐饮业是最早遭受疫情冲击的行业之一。
Compared with other industries, the catering industry is one of the first to suffer the impact of the epidemic.
这个春节，餐饮人正在遭受极大的心智和经营能力的考验图/法新文｜《财经》记者 杨立赟编辑｜余乐一个月前，应乾坤决定留在杭州过年的时候，没想过如今的自己会进退两难。
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | The Catering Industry is suffering from a tremendous mental and business test, less than a month ago when Qiankun decided to stay in Hangzhou for the Spring Festival.
这位“湖北人家土菜馆”的掌勺现在没有工作，没有收入。
This "Hubei family home vegetable house" the master spoon now has no job, does not have the income.
他的老家河南鹿邑县已经封闭，怀孕八个多月的妻子还在家里等着自己回去。
His hometown of Henan Luyi county has been closed, more than eight months pregnant wife is still waiting at home to go home.
“我只有一个黑色棉布口罩，已经戴了好几天，没办法，买不到那种医用口罩。
"I only have a black cotton mask and I've been wearing it for days and I can't buy one.
饿了出去找饭吃，一上街才发现，什么（吃的）都没了。
Hungry to go out to eat, as soon as the street found, what (eat) are gone.
”28岁的应乾坤说。
"said Kwan-kun, 28.
他在杭州无处可去，也不敢出门，只能窝在餐馆的宿舍里，靠方便面度日。
He had nowhere to go in Hangzhou, and dared not go out. He had to stay in a dormitory in a restaurant and live on instant noodles.
“真后悔没有回老家，这两天给家里打电话，我和家里人都哭了，太难受了。
"I really regret not going back to my hometown. I have been crying with my family for the past two days.
”这家位于杭州聚业路的“湖北人家土菜馆”，连老板带伙计共有11人，除了应乾坤，其他10个都是湖北人。
The Hubei Family Vegetable Restaurant, which is located in Hangzhou's Jieyue Road, has a staff of 11 and is made up of 10 Hubei people besides the Kun.
老板在春节前农历腊月二十（1月14日）闭店回湖北过年，原定正月初十（2月3日）恢复营业，但现在复工日期已无限期推迟。
Boss in the Lunar New Year before the Lunar New Year 20 (January 14) back to Hubei, the original January 10 (February 3) resumption of business, but now the resumption of work has been postponed indefinitely.
“就算回去开业，大家现在对湖北人那么恐慌，我们的生意肯定会明显下降，至少三个月之内会很惨。
"Even if we go back to business and people are so scared of Hubei people now, our business will definitely fall off dramatically, at least for three months.
”“湖北人家”的老板娘在电话中告诉《财经》记者。
"Hubei family," the woman told Caijing in a telephone call.
她计算过，餐厅一个月流水20多万，每停业一个月，不仅没有进账，还会损失每个月两万多元房租。
She calculates that the restaurant loses more than 200,000 yuan a month and loses more than $20,000 a month for every month of shut-down.
肺炎疫情在武汉爆发后，全球的目光都聚集在这里，而它的冲击波早已波及数千公里外的其它城市，改变了许多人的命运。
After the outbreak of pneumonia in Wuhan, the eyes of the world gathered here, and its shock waves have spread thousands of kilometers away to other cities, changing the fate of many people.
截至2020年1月28日24时，据国家卫健委通报，全国累计报告确诊病例7711例、现有重症病例1370例，累计死亡病例170例，治愈出院病例124例，疑似病例12167例。
As of 2400 hours on 28 January 2020, CNDS reported a cumulative total of 7711 confirmed cases, 1,370 existing severe cases, 170 cumulative deaths, 124 cases cured and 12,167 suspected cases.
疫情到来之际，大部分的第一选择是减少外出，尤其是避免去往人群聚集的场所。
At the onset of the epidemic, most of the first choice is to reduce travel, especially to places where crowds congregate.
餐饮业就由此成为最早遭受冲击的行业之一。
The catering industry has thus become one of the first industries to suffer the impact.
这个春节，餐饮人正在遭受极大的心智和经营能力的考验。
This Spring Festival, the culinary people are suffering from the tremendous mental and business ability test.
无论是个体小餐馆还是大型连锁品牌，都面临着被疫情“击倒”的风险。
Both individual restaurants and large chains are at risk of being "knocked down" by the outbreak.
“这次疫情对（餐饮）行业可能是一次大洗牌。
"This outbreak could be a major reshuffle for the industry.
”中国饭店协会副会长、旺顺阁（北京）投资管理公司总裁张雅青对《财经》记者说。
Zhang Yaqing, vice president of the China Hotel Association and president of Wangshunge Investment Management, told Caijing.
图/视觉中国冷清的年夜饭往年春节前，饭店餐馆最担心的是招工问题。
Before the Spring Festival, hotels and restaurants were most worried about recruiting workers.
因为春节不同于其它长假，服务业的从业人员也希望合家团圆，尤其是年轻的服务员，宁愿不赚这笔钱，也要回老家过年。
Because Spring Festival is different from other long vacations, service workers also want to reunite with their families, especially the young waiters, who would rather not earn the money and return home for the New Year.
春节临近时，餐馆往往想方设法留住员工。
As the Spring Festival approaches, restaurants often try to retain staff.
但今年春节，让它们犯难的是如何安置过剩的劳动力。
But this Spring Festival, let them wonder how to put the surplus labor force.
除夕夜，杭州老字号“杭州酒家”上座率不到50%——在一个月前订餐时，这里的年夜饭尚属一座难求。
On New Year's Eve, less than 50 per cent of Hangzhou's old name "Hangzhou Restaurant," where dinner was a mystery when meals were ordered a month ago, is still not available.
随着疫情升级，多数客人退订或到店打包，餐厅为每桌客人准备了一个大纸板箱，可以装下十几个菜。
As the epidemic escalated, most of the guests withdrew or packed, and the restaurant prepared a large cardboard box for each table containing a dozen dishes.
当晚七点半，杭州酒家送走了最后一桌客人，餐厅隐隐弥漫着消毒水的味道。
At 7: 30 that evening, Hangzhou Restaurant sent off the last table guests, the restaurant vaguely filled with the smell of disinfectant.
西湖边的望湖宾馆在春节期间虽然照常营业，但客流每况愈下，每天大概只有五桌客人吃饭。
The Wanghu Hotel on the West Lake is open for business as usual during the Spring Festival, but the flow of passengers is getting worse and only about five tables a day.
行政总厨方星对《财经》表示，目前安排员工休假，只留下三分之一的人力，随着疫情持续，将继续减少人手，直至“最低配置”。
Chief Executive Chef Fang told Caijing that only one-third of the workforce is currently on leave and will continue to be reduced to a "minimum configuration" as the epidemic continues.
这份冷清局面让张雅青也大吃一惊。
Zhang Ya-qing was also surprised by the bleak situation.
她在接受《财经》记者采访时称，在全国拥有61家门店的旺顺阁，年夜饭被临时退订了800桌，只剩下预定的40%。
Wang Shunge, which owns 61 stores across the country, was temporarily booked at 800 tables, leaving only 40 percent, she told Caijing.
大年初一，张雅青走访了10家门店，“基本是空着的，一天最多只有五六桌生意。
On New Year's Day, Zhang Yaqing visited 10 stores, "basically empty, a day only a maximum of five or six table business.
一家店40个员工待岗。
A store with 40 employees waiting to be posted.
”她当即决定关闭一半的店面，剩下30家继续营业。
She immediately decided to close half of her stores, leaving 30 open.
“有些是商场店，商场不关门，也要求里面的餐厅不能关，还需要人留守。
"Some are stores, the mall is not closed, but also the inside of the restaurant can not be closed, there is a need to stay.
”根据旺顺阁提供给《财经》的数据，今年春节期间（2020年1月24日－1月31日），该公司销售额同比下降81.52%，预计第一季度整体同比跌4.62%。
Sales are down 81.52% year-on-year during the Spring Festival period from January 24 to January 31, 2020, and are expected to fall 4.62% year-on-year in the first quarter, according to Caijing data provided by Wangshunge.
张雅青说，春节期间旺顺阁的营收主要来自外卖业务。
Zhang Ya-qing said that during the Spring Festival Wangshunge Pavilion's revenue mainly from take-out business.
“有些门店厨房开着，只是店面不开，还能做外卖生意。
"Some stores have open kitchens, but they don't have a storefront and can do take-out.
我们员工每天测两次体温，餐厅每天消毒三次。
Our staff take temperature twice a day, and the restaurant disinfects three times a day.
”外卖也能帮助解决过剩的存货问题。
Take-out can also help solve the problem of excess inventory.
“我们预估一周需要的存货，但是临时停业了，这些食材就会过期，是最大的浪费。
"We estimate what we need for a week, but when we shut down temporarily, it's going to expire, the biggest waste of all.
”其中一部分给留在宿舍的员工消化掉，又组织大众点评、美团等线上平台的售卖。
Some of them were digested by staff who stayed in their dorms, and sold online platforms such as popular reviews and US tours.
“这算是一种自救措施，我们就按进价卖，不赚顾客的钱，不想发国难财。
"This is a kind of self-help measure, we sell at the purchase price, do not earn customers' money, do not want to be rich.
但是卖得并不好，大家不习惯这种方式。
But it doesn't sell well. People are not used to it.
”张雅青说。
"said Zhang.
然而，人们噤若寒蝉，希望在疫情稳定之前尽可能隔绝一切与外界的接触，外加上营业的餐厅数量少、配送费翻倍等原因，根据一线人员的说法，外卖订单也只比堂食好了一点点而已。
However, people have been quiet, hoping to keep as much contact as possible until the outbreak stabilizes, adding to that the small number of restaurants in business and the doubling of delivery costs, according to front-line staff, who say take-out orders are only a little better than Don's.
饿了么的外卖小哥韦胜军这几天终于放慢了脚步。
Hungry take-out brother Weisheng Army has slowed down the pace of the last few days.
“每天只有七单左右，从早上10点到晚上7点，你说有多慢？”穿梭在杭州滨江区的他告诉《财经》记者，七单这个数量，平时一两个小时就完成了。
"Only about seven a day, from 10 am to 7 pm, how slow do you think it is?" he told Caijing, shuttling through the waterfront area of Hangzhou.
闲下来并不是韦胜军的心愿。
It was not Weisheng's wish to be idle.
和大多数进城务工人员一样， 留在客乡度过春节，就是为了多赚一份收入。
As most migrant workers in the city, stay in the Hakka Spring Festival, is to earn an additional income.
来自贵州凯里的他，今年37岁，已经是两个孩子的父亲，小的只有几个月大，一家老小在老家嗷嗷待哺。
Guizhou-based Kerry, 37, is already the father of two children, ranging from a few months old to starving at home.
春节前，韦胜军辞去物流公司司机的工作，到饿了么当一名配送员。
Before the Spring Festival, Wei Shengjun quit his job as a logistics company driver and became a distributor when he was hungry.
“因为物流公司春节要放假，我得继续赚钱。
"I have to keep making money because the logistics company is having the Spring Festival holiday.
”韦胜军说，春节期间每天保底工资是200元，接的单子越多，拿的补贴越多。
Wei said the daily minimum wage during the Spring Festival was 200 yuan, and the more tickets were received, the more subsidies they received.
“但是没有那么多单子，很多餐厅都没开。
"But there aren't so many lists. A lot of restaurants are open.
”他和同事们也都不敢辞职，“现在的情况，辞了这份，也没有其他工作。
Neither he nor his colleagues dared resign. "As things stand, I'm quitting and I don't have another job.
”目前，韦胜军负责的“片区”，所有小区都采取了半封闭式管理：外卖、快递、中介均不允许进入小区，业主必须到门口自取。
For now, all of Weisheng's "pockets" are under semi-closed management: take-out, express delivery, and intermediaries are not allowed into the neighborhood, and owners must go to the door and fetch it.
韦胜军一直戴着口罩，但穿梭在大街小巷，他也有担心：“不担心是不可能的，但我戴着口罩，送货放在门口，基本不和顾客接触，如果这样都会感染，那我也没办法。
Weisheng Jun has been wearing a mask, but as he shuttles through the streets, he worries, "It's impossible not to worry, but I wear a mask, deliver goods at the door, and have little contact with customers.
”截至发稿，饿了么和美团外卖均未提供春节期间相关数据。
As of the writing, neither the starving nor the American take-out offers any figures for the Spring Festival period.
餐饮业在洗牌疫情也同样波及到了那些全国性的连锁餐饮品牌。
The restaurant industry in the shuffle epidemic has also affected those national restaurant chains brand.
海底捞、太二、胖哥俩的全国门店在1月26日至30日或31日暂停营业，杨国福麻辣烫和张亮麻辣烫的多数门店尚未开业，后续营业时间将根据疫情发展情况和国家相关规定而定。
The shops nationwide are closed from Jan. 26 to Jan. 30 or Jan. 31, and most of Yang's hot and spicy stores haven't opened, depending on the epidemic and national regulations.
星巴克、瑞幸咖啡、喜茶、肯德基、麦当劳等连锁品牌则关停了湖北或武汉的门店。
Starbucks, Ruixin coffee, tea, KFC, McDonald's and other chains shut down Hubei or Wuhan stores.
虽然身处寒冬，但这些企业还在向疫区出钱出力。
Despite the winter, these companies are still contributing to the epidemic.
除了提供饮食特供服务，截至1月30日，包括星巴克、瑞幸、喜茶、海底捞、九毛九、百胜中国、麦当劳中国、顶巧餐饮、杨国福集团、张亮餐饮、鲍师傅等公司向中国红十字基金会、湖北省慈善总会等机构累计捐赠近3000万元。
As well as catering services, as of January 30, nearly 30 million yuan had been donated to the China Red Cross Foundation and Hubei Charitable Association by companies including Starbucks, Ruixin, Happy Tea, Sea bottom fishing, 99%, Yum Shing China, McDonalds China, Dinner at Top Catering, Yang Guofu Group, Zhang Liang Restaurant and Master Bao etc.
对于可以预见的亏损，张亮麻辣烫的创始人张亮在接受《财经》采访时表示，往年到了大年初四，大约有40%的门店开始营业，大年初八几乎全部复工，今年只有很少一部分在营业。
Zhang Liang, founder of Zhang Liangmao, told Caijing that about 40 percent of stores were open by the beginning of the year and nearly all by the end of the year.
“近一两个月亏损是肯定的，有一些房租压力过大的门店，在政策允许的前提下可以增加线上销售来缓解房租压力。
"Nearly a month or two of losses are certain, and there are some stores with very high rent pressures that can increase online sales to ease the rent pressure if policy allows."
”“乐观来看，北京大概一个月能控制疫情。
"Optimistic, Beijing will be able to control the epidemic for about a month.
”经历过2003非典时期的张雅青，初步计划2月10日左右复工。
Zhang Ya-qing, who experienced SARS in 2003, plans to resume work around February 10.
她表示，房租、人工是现在无法开工的餐饮企业最头疼的问题。
Rent and labor are the biggest headaches for restaurants that can't start now, she says.
“餐馆期待商场减免、政府补助，但最主要还是靠企业自己扛过去。
"Restaurants look for market exemptions and government subsidies, but most of all businesses carry the burden themselves."
”目前，万达、美的置业、华润置地、大悦城等“房东”纷纷宣布为商户减免几天至一个月不等的租金。
"Landlords" such as Wanda, Meimei Estate, China Resources Land and Big Yue have announced tax breaks ranging from a few days to a month for merchants.
近日，中金宏观发布的《回顾2003年“非典”对经济的影响》报告显示，当年，财政政策对受“非典”疫情影响比较严重的行业减免了部分税费。
A recent review of the impact of SARS on the economy released by Chinkin Macro shows that fiscal policy cut some taxes and levies on sectors that were more severely affected by the SARS epidemic that year.
2003年5月1日起，对餐饮、旅店、旅游、娱乐、民航、公路客运、水路客运、出租汽车等行业减免部分政府性基金。
Since May 1, 2003, some government funds have been exempted from catering, hotel, tourism, entertainment, civil aviation, road passenger transport, passenger water transportation, taxi and other industries.
2003年下半年，财政收入增速有所放缓。
Fiscal revenue growth slowed in the second half of 2003.
对于连锁加盟型的餐饮企业，减轻加盟商的负担成了第一要务。
For chain-affiliated catering enterprises, reducing the burden of franchisees has become the first priority.
杨国福麻辣烫创始人杨国福在接受《财经》记者采访时说，已经决定在给全国的门店减免加盟费——已加盟的老店延续六个月免加盟费，新加盟的减免三年费用；此外总部供应的物料会打折减价，并且给门店派发消毒水。
Yang Guofu, founder of Yang Guofu Magazine, told Caijing that he had decided to extend the franchise fee for six months in old shops and three years for new entrants to join the store, as well as to cut prices for materials supplied from headquarters and distribute disinfectant to stores.
杨国福坦言，当前形势下，可能有加盟商决定退出，严重程度取决于疫情持续的时间。
Yang said frankly that the current situation, there may be a decision to withdraw allies, depending on the severity of the epidemic.
“这时候总部不能想着盈利了，要帮助加盟商共度难关。
"This is a time when the headquarters can't be profitable and help the allies get through this.
”对于过剩的人力，旺顺阁采取休假的方式减轻企业负担。
Mr Wangshunge has taken leave of absence to ease the burden on companies.
“我们不会裁员，现在让员工轮流先把攒下的年假都休完，基本工资照发。
"We're not going to lay off people. Now let's take turns taking all the annual leave we've saved and pay our base salary.
”张雅青建议员工留在宿舍，不要回老家，避免交叉感染。
Zhang advised staff to stay in the dormitory instead of returning home to avoid cross-infection.
“一个月之内都是可控的，两个月、三个月就扛不住了。
"It was manageable for a month, two months, three months," he said.
”张雅青称，如果延续两个月以上，今年餐饮业的损失会非常惨重。
Zhang said that if it lasted more than two months, the losses in the restaurant industry this year would be devastating.
她回忆2003年非典时期，“那时餐厅比较少，需求量大。
She recalls SARS in 2003, when "there was less demand for restaurants.
非典结束时，大家闷了两个月终于可以出门，餐饮在短时间内发生一个爆发性增长。
At the end of SARS, we were bored for two months and were finally able to go out. Catering grew explosively in a short time.
”中金宏观的报告显示，2003年“非典”对经济的影响主要集中在第二季度，客运、旅游、住宿餐饮、零售等行业短期内受到较大冲击，投资和外贸所受影响不明显。
The report from CICC macro shows that the impact of SARS on the economy in 2003 was mainly concentrated in the second quarter, with sectors such as passenger transport, tourism, accommodation, catering and retailing being hit hard in the short term, with little impact on investment and foreign trade.
住宿和餐饮业在当年第二季度比前后两个季度平均增速低6.6个百分点，但同比依然顽强增长7.4%。
Accommodation and catering grew 6.6 percentage points lower on average in the second quarter of the year than in the previous two quarters, but remained stubbornly high at 7.4 per cent year on year.
“但是现在不一样，现在餐饮过剩，”张雅青说。
"But it's not the same now. There's a surplus of food," Zhang said.
“过去那些盲目扩张的、过度投资的、手里钱不多的企业，可能工资都发不了两个月，一旦现金流断裂，裁员、倒闭是必然的。
"Companies that were blindly expansionary, overinvested and didn't have much money in their hands may not be paid for two months, and once cash flow breaks, layoffs and bankruptcies are inevitable.
”本文由树木计划作者【财经杂志】创作，独家发布在今日头条，未经授权，不得转载新型冠状病毒疫情系列报道▷ 点击图片查看责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Written by Caijing Magazine, the author of this article, published in today's headlines, it is not authorized to reprint the new coronavirus series of reports on coronavirus. Please click on the picture to see RIA & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original for Caijing magazine and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
餐饮业疫情寒冬：餐厅营收普降八成，外卖小哥一天只接七单。
Food industry epidemic winter: restaurant camp revenue fell 80%, take out only seven small brothers a day.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "餐饮业疫情寒冬：餐厅营收普降八成，外卖小哥一天只接七单";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "相比其它行业，餐饮业是最早遭受疫情冲击的行业之一。
var msg _ desc = & quot; the restaurant industry was one of the first to be hit by the epidemic compared with other industries.
这个春节，餐饮人正在遭受极大的心智和经营能力的考验";。
; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
