登机前吃药退烧，姐弟两家8人从意大利回京，4人确诊！警方已立案。
Before boarding to take medicine to reduce fever, brother and sister two 8 people from Italy back to Beijing, 4 confirmed! Police have opened a case.
中国经营报                      。
China Business News.
中国经营报。
China Business News.
与中国企业同步成长，对话商业领袖，传播商业理想，服务商业人群，《中国经营报》掌控中国商界绝对话语权。
Growing in step with Chinese companies, dialogue with business leaders, spreading business ideals, serving the business community, The China Business Administration controls the absolute voice of the Chinese business community.
。
.
近期，境外新冠肺炎疫情持续蔓延，部分国家疫情形势严峻。
Recently, the outbreak of new crown pneumonia abroad continued to spread, the situation in some countries is serious.
在口岸疫情防控风险陡增的新形势下，口岸成为疫情防控的主战场。
In the new situation of rapidly increasing risk of disease prevention and control at ports, ports have become the main battleground of disease prevention and control.
据北京市公安局消息，2020年3月4日，廖某君、廖某海等两家一行8人自意大利乘机抵达北京首都国际机场。
On March 4, 2020, eight people from two families, Liao and Liao, arrived at Beijing's Capital International Airport by plane from Italy, according to the Beijing Public Security Bureau.
其中，廖某君、廖某海等4人被北京市确诊为新冠肺炎病例。
Among them, Liao Prince, Liao a sea and other 4 people were diagnosed as the new crown pneumonia cases in Beijing.
值得注意的是，廖某君与其家庭成员一行人，由于在登机前使用药物降温退烧、不如实填写健康申明卡等行为，被顺义公安分局依法开展立案侦查。
It is worth noting that Liao and his family members, due to the use of drugs before boarding fever to reduce fever, not truthfully fill out the health declaration card, and other acts, Shunyi Public Security Bureau opened a case investigation according to law.
登机前服药退烧、不如实填报信息……立案侦查！经查，廖某君和廖某海系姐弟关系，与其家人长期在意大利经商。
Before boarding the medicine to reduce fever, false information...... file investigation! After investigation, Liao Prince and Liao a sea brother-in-law relationship, with his family in Italy for a long time to do business.
2月下旬以来，廖某君、廖某海相继出现发热、干咳等症状，在登机前使用药物退烧降温。
Since late February, Liao Liao Prince, Liao a sea successively appear fever, dry cough and other symptoms, before boarding the use of drugs to reduce fever.
家庭成员中存在不如实填写《中华人民共和国出/入境健康申明卡》的情形，给同机人员造成传染风险。
Family members who fail to fill out the "Health Declaration Card of the People's Republic of China for Entry / Exit" truthfully create the risk of infection among the crew members.
3月6日，顺义公安分局以廖某君等人涉嫌妨害传染病防治罪，依法开展立案侦查。
March 6, Shunyi Public Security Bureau Liao Liao and others suspected of obstructing the prevention and control of infectious diseases, according to law opened investigation.
北京警方将紧密依托首都严格进京管理联防联控协调机制，会同相关部门筑牢防范疫情境外输入的防线，对于拒绝执行疫情防控措施等违法犯罪行为，将依法坚决打击。
The Beijing police will rely closely on the capital to strictly enter the Beijing Joint Prevention and Control Coordination Mechanism, work with the relevant departments to build a strong defense against the disease imported from abroad, and refuse to implement disease control measures and other illegal acts, will resolutely crack down according to law.
在7日下午的新闻发布会上，北京市卫生健康委新闻发言人高小俊介绍，截至3月6日24时，北京共有境外输入确诊病例11例，其中，意大利输入8例，伊朗输入3例。
As of 2400 hours on March 6, 11 confirmed cases had been imported into Beijing, including eight from Italy and three from Iran, said Gao Xiaojun, a spokesman for the Beijing Municipal Health Council.
据北京市卫健委近期每日通报，来自意大利的8例病例情况分别是：3月3日海关采样检测和排查转运北京的核酸阳性者1例。
Eight cases from Italy were tested by customs on March 3 and one case of nucleic acid-positive person transited to Beijing was detected, the Beijing Health Commission reported daily.
该患者来自意大利，经问诊和综合检查，已在北京定点医院确诊，并进行隔离治疗。
The patient, who came from Italy, was diagnosed and treated in isolation at a Beijing-designated hospital after consultation and comprehensive examination.
3月4日上午北京公布的新冠肺炎疫情中已将此患者计入到2例境外输入病例中。
The case was included in two overseas cases of pneumonia reported in Beijing on the morning of March 4.
3月5日，北京市新增4例新冠肺炎确诊病例，均为自意大利入境的输入病例。
March 5, Beijing, four new cases of confirmed cases of New Crown Pneumonia, are imported from Italy.
3月6日，北京新增4例新冠肺炎确诊病例，3例来自意大利的境外输入病例。
On March 6, four new cases of pneumonia were confirmed in Beijing, and three were imported from Italy.
入境人员如有瞒报将受惩处！上海也出手了据新华社报道，针对新冠肺炎疫情发展态势，上海海关在7日举行的上海市新冠肺炎疫情防控新闻发布会上宣布，将对来自疫情严重国家（地区）的入境人员启动100%流行病学调查，从严从紧防范境外疫情输入风险，入境人员如有瞒报将受惩处。
Shanghai customs will launch 100 percent of epidemiological investigations of people coming from highly-affected countries (regions) in response to the latest outbreak of pneumonia in Shanghai, Xinhua reported, announcing that 100 percent of epidemiological investigations will be launched against people coming from countries with severe epidemics.
上海海关副关长蒋原在发布会上表示，在口岸疫情防控风险陡增的新形势下，口岸已成为疫情防控主战场。
Shanghai Customs Deputy Commissioner Jiang Yuan said in the press conference, the port has become the main battleground of disease prevention and control in the new situation of sharp increase in the risk of disease control.
上海海关将对来自疫情严重国家（地区）的人员启动100%流行病学调查，目前已抽调300余名专业人员增援口岸现场。
Shanghai Customs will launch 100% of the epidemiological survey of personnel from countries (regions) with severe epidemics, and more than 300 professionals have been deployed to reinforce the port site.
图片来源：上海市人民政府新闻办公室官网为适应疫情防控需要，上海海关制定了口岸入境人员分流处置流程，重新调整优化口岸布局，扩大检疫区域空间布局，再造通关流程，有效应对较大客流疏散，确保100%流行病学调查顺利开展。
To meet the needs of epidemic prevention and control, the Shanghai Customs Administration has formulated procedures for the diversion of people entering the port of entry, readjusted the layout of the port, expanded the spatial distribution of quarantine areas, re-engineered customs procedures, effectively handled the evacuation of large passenger flows and ensured the smooth conduct of 100 per cent of epidemiological investigations.
蒋原强调，上海海关督促交通工具运营者严格落实异常情况报告、检疫广播宣传等措施，发布《出入境旅客涉新冠肺炎疫情行政处罚工作指引》，对瞒骗行为严厉惩处，引导广大出入境旅客如实进行健康申报。
Jiang stressed that the Shanghai Customs has urged vehicle operators to strictly implement abnormal situation reports and quarantine broadcasts, and issued the "Guidelines on Administrative Punishment for Travellers Entering and Exiting New Crown Pneumonia," severely punishing acts of deception and guiding the vast number of travellers entering and leaving the country to make truthful health declarations.
“如实申报是出入境人员所承担的一项法律义务，出入境人员如有隐瞒或虚假填报，造成疫情传播，将被依法追究相关责任。
"Factual declaration is a legal obligation for people entering or leaving the country. Any person who conceals or makes false declarations causing the spread of the disease will be held liable in accordance with the law.
”蒋原说。
"said Jiang Yuan.
上海海关还新增乘务长报告制度，强化航空公司主动报告责任，实行“零报告”制度，要求航班乘务长必须在航班落地前，按海关明确的报告事项清单，向海关报告相关情况。
The Shanghai Customs has also added a reporting system for the chief steward, which strengthens the reporting obligations of airlines on their own initiative, and has implemented a "zero report" system, which requires the flight steward to report the situation to the customs in accordance with a clear list of items to be reported by the customs before landing.
上海海关在机场口岸升级测温设备，新增检测设备低温超范围警示功能。
Shanghai Customs upgraded its temperature measuring equipment at the airport, adding a warning function for low temperature exceeding range of detection equipment.
蒋原表示，在努力做到不遗漏任何一名须集中隔离或居家隔离的重点旅客的同时，海关注重人性化管理，最大限度加速检疫通关，保障口岸正常通关秩序，全力解决旅客口岸滞留时间过长问题。
In an effort to avoid leaving out any key passengers who need to be concentrated in quarantine or isolated at home, Mr Jiang said the department was focusing on humane management, speeding up quarantine clearance to the greatest extent possible, ensuring normal customs clearance at ports and making every effort to solve the problem of prolonged stay at passenger ports.
3月2日、3日，上海浦东机场从伊朗转机入境旅客中发现4人核酸检测阳性，移交地方疾控部门后先后确诊为新冠肺炎病例。
March 2, 3, Shanghai Pudong Airport from Iran's transit passengers found four nucleic acid positive, referred to the local disease control departments after the first confirmed cases of new crown pneumonia.
境外疫情输入风险究竟有多大，主要来自哪里？中国疫情防控效果逐渐彰显，海外却不断拉响新的警报，这让中国面临的境外疫情输入风险成为一个需要迫切对待的问题。
The increasing effectiveness of China's epidemic prevention and control, coupled with new warnings from overseas, makes the risk of China's import of an epidemic abroad an issue that needs urgent attention.
境外输入风险有多大？主要来自哪里？3月6日，环球时报就此进行了调查报道。
How much risk is imported from abroad? Where does it come from? On March 6, the Global Times conducted an investigation into the matter.
意大利据报道，意大利全国有超过20万华人，大部分来自浙江丽水和温州，他们在意大利开服装厂，或经营餐厅、酒吧等服务业，李娜就是其中之一。
Li Na is one of more than 200,000 ethnic Chinese in Italy, most of whom are from the Zhejiang provinces of Lishui and Wenzhou, who run clothing factories in Italy or services such as restaurants and bars.
她告诉环球时报记者，她认识的意大利浙江人因疫情已回国的还不多，“但打算回国或已经订了机票的挺多的”。
She told the Global Times that few Italians she knew from Zhejiang had returned home because of the outbreak. "But many are planning to return home or have booked tickets."
意大利布雷西亚医务人员在医院外搭建的帐篷中工作（图片来源：新华社）浙江多地已开始对归国华人华侨进行严格管理。
Medical workers in Brescia, Italy, work in tents set up outside the hospital. (Source: Xinhua) Strict management of repatriated Chinese has begun in many parts of Zhejiang Province.
李娜虽然暂时没有回国计划，但也收到了家乡温州市文成县的通知，要求如果回国需提前进行健康申报，且入境后需要集中隔离。
Although Li Na did not return home for the time being, but also received home Wencheng County Wenzhou, a notification that if you return to the country need to carry out health declaration in advance, and after the need to concentrate isolation.
温州隔壁的丽水也没放松。
Yishui next door to Wenzhou hasn't relaxed either.
该市青田县政府人员表示，青田县将对所有海外返青人员，不论从哪个国家来，均采取与原国内疫区回青人员相同的措施——统一送至县内医学观察点集中观察14天。
Qingtian county officials said Qingtian county will take the same measures for all returning overseas workers, regardless of their country of origin, as those returning from the former endemic areas - and send them to the county medical observation post for a concentrated period of 14 days.
伊朗早在2月26日，宁夏就发现一例伊朗输入病例。
As early as February 26, Iran discovered a case of Iranian imports in Ningxia.
3月5日，甘肃新增11例伊朗输入确诊病例，上海新增一例。
On March 5, 11 new cases were imported into Gansu and one new case was recorded in Shanghai.
张明(化名)是3月4日乘中国包机回国的中国人之一。
Zhang Ming (alias) is one of the Chinese who returned home on March 4 on a chartered flight from China.
他说，他在伊朗疫情重灾区库姆学习和生活，随着越来越多的死亡病例公布出来，他愈发忐忑不安，最担心伊朗的医疗水平和医疗设施跟不上。
He said he was studying and living in Qom, a region hard hit by the Iranian epidemic, and that he was becoming increasingly worried as more and more deaths were reported and worried about Iran's poor health care and facilities.
他说，在伊朗，口罩价格飞速上涨，一只N95口罩的价格几乎相当于伊朗人一个工作日的收入。
In Iran, prices for masks have skyrocketed, and a N95 mask costs nearly as much as Iranians earn in a working day, he said.
由于伊中之间暂停直飞航班，从伊朗回到中国需要转机，通常选择的路线是借道俄罗斯或泰国。
Due to the suspension of direct flights between Iran and China, a connecting flight from Iran to China is usually via Russia or Thailand.
3月2日，在伊朗德黑兰，一名男子戴着口罩出行。
On March 2, a man walks in a mask in Tehran, Iran.
（图片来源：新华社 艾哈迈德·哈拉比萨斯 摄）韩国在疫情比较严重的韩国，有当地华人告诉环球时报记者，他暂时没有回国打算，因为“回国即失业”。
(Photo: Xinhua News Agency) In South Korea, where the epidemic is severe, local Chinese told the Global Times he had no plans to return because he was "unemployed on his return."
他说，受疫情影响，工作岗位减少，外国人往往成为第一批被辞退的对象，这些人可能会考虑离开韩国回国。
He said foreigners were often among the first to be laid off because of the epidemic and fewer jobs, and might consider leaving the country.
据了解，在韩国确实有一些中国人想回国，包括中资企业员工、在韩直播卖东西的中国人等。
It is understood that some Chinese do want to return home in South Korea, including employees of Chinese-owned enterprises and Chinese who sell things live in South Korea.
目前，从韩国返回国内的人员均要接受为期14天的隔离。
Currently, persons returning to the country from Korea are placed in isolation for a period of 14 days.
而烟台、大连、延吉、青岛等重点城市一早就采取了针对性举措。
Yantai, Dalian, Yanji, Qingdao and other key cities have taken early targeted measures.
3月6日，在韩国大邱机场，工作人员喷洒消毒剂。
On 6 March, staff sprayed disinfectant at Daegu airport in the Republic of Korea.
（图片来源：新华社）日本在东京的上班族李想告诉记者，日本对于新冠肺炎的共鸣不强，政府、媒体和民众起初都不重视，像是“别国的事情”。
(Photo: Xinhua) Japanese office worker Lee Kawasaki told reporters that Japan's response to the new crown pneumonia was weak, with the government, media and the public initially ignoring it as "a matter for other countries."
随着疫情愈发严峻，各大公司开始实施错峰上班、在家办公等措施，“但出手太晚了”。
As the epidemic grew more severe, companies began to stagger to work and work from home, "but it was too late."
她很担心，但因有工作，无法做出辞职回国的决定。
She was worried but was unable to make a decision to resign because of her job.
富山县卫生研究所所长大石和德认为，总的来看，和伊朗不同，近期在日华人绝大多数不会回国。
In general, unlike Iran, the vast majority of Chinese in Japan will not return home in the near future, said Kazuo Dai, director of the Fushan Health Institute.
有回国意愿的是短期滞留者，这批人之前已经由使馆安排包机接回。
Those wishing to return were short-term residents who had previously been arranged by the Embassy to be picked up by chartered flights.
日本下周开始对中国全境入境人员强制隔离，中国也对来自日本的旅客采取了防疫限制措施，加上这段时间往来中日的人员、航班明显减少，整体情况可控。
Japan will begin its enforced separation of people from all over China next week, and China has imposed quarantine restrictions on travellers from Japan, adding to a marked decrease in the number of personnel and flights between China and Japan during this period.
法、美等国，疫情潜在风险难估量在欧美国家中，法国、德国、西班牙、美国被认为是近期疫情加重比较明显的国家。
In Europe and the United States, France, Germany, Spain and the United States are considered to be the countries where the recent increase in the epidemic is obvious.
在法居住的福建商人曹华钦表示，“据我了解，法国华人因为疫情想回国的不是很多。
Cao Huachen, a Fujian businessman who lives in France, said: "To my knowledge, not many French Chinese want to return home because of the outbreak.
在这里的华人也很警惕，很多人买好了三个月的米粮、水和日用品，尽量不出门。
Chinese here are also alert, many people have bought rice, water and daily necessities for three months, try not to go out.
”曹华钦说，“法国的医疗水平整体十分发达，且目前死亡病例都只是患有其他疾病的老年人，华人对一旦患病可以治愈比较有信心，因此还没有出现像意大利那样的情况。
"In France, where health care is generally very well developed and the death toll is only among the elderly suffering from other diseases, the Chinese are more confident that the disease can be cured," Cao said.
”3月5日，在法国巴黎北部一家大型连锁超市，摆放意面和大米的货架剩下零星商品。
On March 5, a large supermarket chain in northern Paris left odds and ends of spaghetti and rice on shelves.
（图片来源：新华社记者 高静 摄）在美的华人表示未听说有人打算近期回国，因为很多航班已取消，也担心飞行过程中被感染。
(Photo: Xinhua News Agency reporter Gao Jing) Chinese in the US said they had not heard of any plans to return home in the near future because many flights had been canceled and worried about being infected during the flight.
不过，美国国内的疫情发展值得持续关注。
However, the development of the epidemic in the United States deserves continued attention.
据美国《纽约时报》5日报道，美国确诊病例中，有43人来自“钻石公主”号邮轮，15人有中国旅行史，11人有意大利旅行史，2人有埃及旅行史，有韩国或伊朗旅行史的各一人。
Of the confirmed cases in the United States, 43 came from the Diamond Princess, 15 from China, 11 from Italy, two from Egypt and one each from South Korea or Iran, The New York Times reported Wednesday.
专家：在入境关卡处快速识别风险很关键北京大学公共卫生学院副院长王培玉表示，除上述国家外，根据与中国间的航班数量和该国的疫情，还有一些国家需要更多注意，比如中东地区的科威特、巴林，亚洲的泰国、柬埔寨以及欧洲部分国家。
According to Wang Peiyu, vice dean of the Beijing University School of Public Health, in addition to the above-mentioned countries, there are other countries that need more attention, such as Kuwait, Bahrain in the Middle East, Thailand, Cambodia and parts of Europe, according to Wang Peiyu, vice-dean of the Beijing University School of Public Health.
根据另一份数据，2月25日至3月3日，自韩国到达中国航班数量最多的是北京、青岛、上海、沈阳、延吉等地的机场，从日本到达中国的航班数排在前面的是上海、北京、广州、大连等，美国则是上海、北京、沈阳排前。
From Feb. 25 to March 3, the largest number of flights from South Korea to China came from airports in Beijing, Qingdao, Shanghai, Shenyang and Yanji, with Shanghai, Beijing, Guangzhou and Dalian leading the list, and the United States ahead of Shanghai, Beijing and Shenyang.
在王培玉看来，防治输入性病例的方法主要有两种，一是入境时进行严格体温检测和旅游史调查、登记，二是呼吁公民减少前往疫情多发和风险较大的国家。
In Wang's view, there are two main ways to prevent and treat imported cases, one is to conduct a rigorous temperature test and travel history survey and registration at the time of entry, and the other is to appeal to citizens to reduce their travel to high-risk countries.
来源：综合平安北京、新华社、上海市人民政府新闻办、环球时报等推荐阅读点击大图|武汉楼市自救点击大图|疫情之下：苹果供应链危情时刻？。
Source: Comprehensive Peace Beijing, Xinhua News Agency, Shanghai Municipal People's Government Information Office, Global Times, etc.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
登机前吃药退烧，姐弟两家8人从意大利回京，4人确诊！警方已立案。
Before boarding to take medicine to reduce fever, brother and sister two 8 people from Italy back to Beijing, 4 confirmed! Police have opened a case.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "中国经营报";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "登机前吃药退烧，姐弟两家8人从意大利回京，4人确诊！警方已立案";。
var msg _ title = & quot; took medicine to relieve the fever before boarding, and the siblings returned to Beijing from Italy with eight people diagnosed!
var msg_desc = "近期，境外新冠肺炎疫情持续蔓延，部分国家疫情形势严峻。
var msg _ desc = & quot; with the recent outbreak of new crown pneumonia abroad continuing to spread, some countries are facing a serious epidemic.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '武汉楼市自救',。
Wuhan property market has AT & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
subject_name: '中国经营报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '疫情之下：苹果供应链危情时刻？',。
AT RATE & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '中国经营报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="中国经营报";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
