火神山上的女人们。
Women on Mount Fire.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
疫情危急时，武汉临时新建火神山医院与雷神山医院。
When the outbreak was critical, Wuhan temporary construction of the new Mount Huoshen Hospital and Lei Shenshan Hospital.
而这其中，有女性建筑工人的贡献。
Among them are women construction workers.
平时，她们在工地上从事重体力劳动，挣微薄的薪水，却常常不被看见。
Usually, they do heavy physical work on the construction site, earning a meager salary, but are often not seen.
她们是强大的女性力量。
They are a powerful force for women.
2020年的国际劳动妇女节，我们选择讲述她们的故事。
On International Women's Day 2020, we choose to tell their stories.
文｜涂雨清编辑｜糖槭突击还是闲不住。
yeg + yeg + yeg + yeg + yeg + yeg + yeg + yeg + yeg + yeg + +
从火神山工地回家隔离已经20天，胡晓红蹬蹬地跑下楼，问居委会的人还需不需要志愿者。
After 20 days of home isolation from the Mount of Fire, Hu Xiaohong pedaled downstairs and asked the neighborhood committee if they needed volunteers.
连着跑了两天，人家说已经招满了。
After two days running, they said they were already full.
在武汉江夏区的这个小区里，没人知道43岁的胡晓红是第一批前往火神山医院参与建设的工人。
No one knows that Hu Xiaohong, 43, was the first worker to go to the Mount Fire Hospital in this district of Wuhan.
她以前是建筑工地的工人，现在既是工人也是「带班的」。
She used to be a construction worker, but now she is both a worker and a "leader."
大年三十的晚上，她召集了30个工友赶往火神山工地。
On the evening of New Year's Eve, she gathered 30 workmates to rush to the work site of Mount Fire.
他们都叫她「胡姐」，胡姐认识的老板多，经常能联络上活儿。
They all call her "Hu Jie," Hu Jie knows many bosses, often can contact work.
此前一天是1月23日，武汉因新冠肺炎疫情封城。
The day before, Wuhan had been closed by an outbreak of pneumonia in the New Crown.
也是在那一天，胡晓红刚刚建完武汉一间医院的隔离病房。
Also on that day, Hu Xiaohong just finished building the isolation ward of a Wuhan hospital.
但是，已有的医院没有足够的病房收治患者。
However, existing hospitals do not have sufficient wards to receive patients.
新的火神山医院要求10天建成，为武汉提供1000张病床。
The new Mount Huoshen Hospital will be built in 10 days and will provide 1,000 beds in Wuhan.
而此时能用的工人，大多是武汉本地的工人。
But at this time can use the workers, mostly Wuhan local workers.
多年来，武汉江夏区形成了工种突击的产业，各个工种都有，哪里要人随时都能找到。
Over the years, Wuhan Jiangxia District has formed a job type of industries, all types of jobs, where important people can be found at any time.
建设火神山医院的消息一传来，这些突击队的工人们纷纷赶来。
As soon as word came of the building of the Mount Fire Hospital, the commando workers arrived.
除夕，胡晓红本打算和女儿、儿子一起吃年夜饭，有点舍不得。
On New Year's Eve, Hu Xiaohong planned to eat Chinese New Year's Eve with his daughter and son.
但电话的那一头是她刚搭上线的招工老板，胡晓红有些担心自己不去，以后很难接到这家公司的活儿了。
But at the other end of the line is her new online recruitment boss, Hu Xiaorong a little worried about not going, it will be difficult to receive the company's work.
打电话的人着急，胡晓红也着急，饭只吃到一半。
The caller worried, Hu Xiaohong also worried, only half of the meal.
除了安全帽、手套、反光衣和口罩，她什么都没带，脚上还穿着绿色的棉靴。
She wore nothing but a helmet, gloves, reflective clothing and a mask, and green cotton boots on her feet.
当晚一夜的雷雨，她坐上面包车就出发了。
That night in a thunderstorm, she got into the van and set off.
胡晓红放弃年夜饭，和工友连夜赶赴武汉进行火神山的建设图源网络第二天早上7点，胡晓红领着工人，去现场画线、插旗。
Hu Xiaohong gave up New Year's Eve dinner, and workers rushed to Wuhan overnight construction map source network of the god of fire the next morning at 7 a.m., Hu Xiaoxuaolong workers, to the scene to draw lines, flag.
下过雨的天很舒服，工地上没有灰，就是风大了点，又赶上生理期，吹得头疼。
After the weather is very comfortable, there is no ash site, but the wind a little bit, and to catch up with physiological period, blow a headache.
路面还没有硬化，她换上公司发的雨鞋，一脚一个泥坑。
Before the road hardened, she changed into company-issued rain shoes, a foot in a mud pit.
现场很嘈杂，全靠吼了。
It was noisy. It was all howling.
这还是她第一次看到那么多挖土机同时作业，气氛真是不同，士气一下子就上来了。
It was the first time she had seen so many excavators working at the same time. The atmosphere was different.
「就是打仗一样的。
"It's like war.
别人那么情愿（干活），我们也要出份力。
We have to play our part when others are willing to work.
」她想，幸亏来了，「很光荣」。
"Fortunately," she thought, "it is glorious.
在一些工人的回忆里，她们可以每到饭点，大约4个小时更换一次口罩。
In the memories of some workers, they were able to change their masks about four hours after each meal.
每个人都戴着口罩工作。
Everyone wears a mask to work.
吃饭的时候，有的工人彼此还会隔开一段距离。
When eating, some workers are separated from each other by a distance.
胡晓红从不主动提起疫情，怕影响大家的心情，结束工程后回到家才有些后怕，买了药，在家隔离的时候每天都喝。
Hu Xiaolong never volunteered to mention the epidemic, afraid of affecting everyone's mood, after the completion of the project back home only a little afraid, bought medicine, isolation at home every day to drink.
但在现场的时候实在是太忙了，胡晓红说，根本没有时间考虑会不会感染。
But at the scene was really too busy, Hu said, there was no time to consider whether it would infect.
火神山医院的工程时间紧，不同工序之间、各个施工单位之间有很多交叉作业。
The project time of Fosen Mountain Hospital is tight, and there are a lot of crossover jobs between different working procedure and each construction unit.
胡晓红和工人的任务包括，在刚刚被压实的平面上铺防尘垫、防潮垫，然后码钢筋、扎钢筋。
Hu's and workers' tasks include laying dustproof mats and damp-proof mats on a freshly pressed flat surface, then yards of steel and steel bars.
还有很多计划之外的工作。
There is much more than planned.
原本该下在附近的一批钢筋，货车司机下在了一里地外。
It was supposed to be next to a batch of steel bars, and the lorry driver got down a mile away.
她和工人们得去搬运。
She and the workers had to be moved.
6米长的钢筋，四五根一捆，一趟就有百来斤重，肩膀马上就磨红了。
Six meters long steel bar, four or five bundles, a visit to the weight of a hundred pounds, shoulders immediately red.
工地车多人多，搬的时候得注意别撞上，一不小心就容易摔了，泥地里爬都爬不起来。
Construction site car many people, when moving to take care not to collide, a careless fall easily, mud can not climb up.
进行扎钢筋的工序时，大批的女工进场了。
A large number of women workers came into the room during the process of fixing steel bars.
扎钢筋是细活，平时大多由女工做。
Tie steel bar is fine work, usually done by female workers.
钢筋跟钢筋横纵铺好之后，交叉的地方需要用细钢丝固定住。
After the steel bar and the longitudinal bar are laid, the intersection place needs to be fastened with fine steel wire.
像打毛衣一样，用一个L型的小铁钩把细钢丝在交叉处缠一个结。
Like knitting a sweater, use a small L-shaped hook to tie the fine wire around the intersection.
扎钢筋是流水线作业，简单的一个动作，反反复复，但要蹲在地上扎，一蹲就是一天，工人没有办法坐，也没有办法站。
Tie steel bar is the assembly line operation, a simple action, back and forth, but to squat on the ground, a squat is a day, workers can not sit, there is no way to stand.
央视24小时直播火神山和雷神山的建设工地，很多网友在线观看，其中一位发微博说，「那天看直播雷神山，正好混凝土地面扎钢筋，一片全是女工，蹲在地上，哗哗的向前推进。
The 24-hour CCTV live broadcast of the construction sites of Mount Fire and Raytheon Mountain was watched online by many netizens, including a microblogger who said, "The day of the live broadcast of Thunder Mountain, the concrete floor was reinforced with steel, all female workers, squatting on the ground, shouting forward.
这种远镜头画面，当时被震撼到了。
This kind of long-range footage, was shocked.
」52岁的韩桃宝就是扎钢筋的女工之一。
"Han Taobao, 52, is one of the women who pricks steel bars.
她用的是老年机，没有网，新冠肺炎的消息她是看到电视新闻才知道。
She used an old machine, no net, and she only learned about the news on TV.
听别人说这个病会传染人。
Listening to people say this disease can infect people.
但她想也没什么的，自己身体好，扛得住。
But she didn't think it would matter. She was in good health and could carry it.
「等医院做好嘛，他们那些病人（可以）去嘛。
"Wait till the hospital is ready. Their patients can go.
」清晨5点40，武汉天还黑着，下了小雨，有点冷。
"Wuhan was still dark at 5: 40 a.m., and it was a little cold with a light rain.
韩桃宝出门的时候儿子还在睡，两个姑娘嫁了，不住家，去工地的事情她也没跟孩子们商量。
When Han Taobao went out, his son was still sleeping, the two girls were married, did not live at home, she did not consult the children about going to the construction site.
丈夫是物流司机，武汉新冠肺炎疫情爆发后，一直在公司工作。
The husband is a logistics driver, Wuhan Xinguan pneumonia outbreak, has been working in the company.
韩桃宝坐在面包车前往工地的时候，天慢慢亮了，她第一次看到了火神山医院的建设工地。
When Han Taobao was travelling to the construction site in the van, it was getting light. She saw the construction site of Mount Flamingo Hospital for the first time.
几千个工人戴着口罩干活，分不清男女。
Thousands of workers wore masks and could not distinguish between men and women.
见到那么多人都在，她原本有点担忧的心就放下了。
Seeing so many people in the room, she was a little worried and let go.
另一些女工也来了，会计粱季和在农村种地的辛红芳从没上过工地。
Other women workers also came, accounting Liang Liang Ji and Xinhong Fang, who worked in the countryside, never went to the construction site.
丈夫报名援建后，她们也想出力。
They also want to help when their husbands sign up for construction.
疫情当下，听说现场缺工人，粱季希望「一家人齐上阵」，带着15岁的儿子报了名。
With the outbreak of the disease, Liang Ji wanted "a whole family to join the army" and claimed the name of his 15-year-old son.
她们接到的任务是在工地上制作铁皮风管，用铁锤把铁片敲成长方体的管子。
They were given the task of making iron pipes on the site and hammering them into cuboid tubes.
辛红芳说，周围敲击的声音「就像打鞭炮一样」，敲上十五六个小时后，根本听不清说话声，脑袋里还「嗡嗡」响。
"It was like a firecracker," she said. "Fifteen or six hours later, I couldn't make out my voice and my head was buzzing.
辛红芳说，平时在农村习惯了，这些体力活她觉得不在话下，只是劳动的时间太长了，有点吃不消。
Xin Hongfang said that in normal times in the countryside used to these manual work, she felt that under the circumstances, but the labor time is too long, a bit unbearable.
粱季却是第一次尝试重体力活，干活的时候都是站着，一天下来，干完活从工地上走到酒店摆渡车的停靠点还要30分钟，「脚踩在地上都是疼的」。
It was the first time Liang Ji ever tried hard work. It was standing all day, and at the end of the day it was 30 minutes before I could walk from the construction site to the hotel ferry terminal.
她说，「那种感觉我真的一辈子都不会忘了。
"I'll never forget that feeling," she says.
」火神山工地上女工在搬运建筑材料图源网络小工正月初四，连日阴雨的武汉放晴了，火神山工地上，胡晓红的雨鞋穿了5天，脚底下磨出了水泡。
Wu Xiaohong's rain shoes lasted five days and blistered under his feet as the workers worked on a network of building materials on the Mount Fujimori site in early January.
正月初九，火神山正式交付，胡晓红也在那一天离开了工地。
Early January 9, the official delivery of the god of fire, Hu Xiaohong also left the site on that day.
她来时不知道进了工地后要住在统一安排的酒店，不能回家。
She did not know when she entered the construction site to live in a unified hotel, can not go home.
带来的棉服就一直没换过，贴身穿的只好每天洗，再用吹风机吹干。
Bringing cotton clothes have not been changed, paste wearing had to wash every day, and then blow-dry hair dryer.
擦脸的香也没带，「脸皴的，手上摸过去就像长了刺一样。
And the chapped faces do not have any fragrances, "chapped faces, and chapped hands that feel like prickles.
痛得要命。
The pain is terrible.
」那双手也都是伤，胡晓红右手的中指向左边弯了一些，但她不记得这是哪次受的伤了。
"Both hands were hurt, and Hu Xiaolong bent a little to the left in the middle of her right hand, but she could not remember which injury it was.
十个指甲每一年都要换掉几个，新长出来的半截是肉粉色，前半截凸起的灰色指甲还没脱落，中间隔着一层血痂。
Ten nails changed every year, and the new half was pink, with the front half of the raised gray fingernail still unpeeling, and a scab of blood between them.
钉子扎脚更常见，疼得受不了，每次胡晓红都会哭，忍着干完活回到家，脚掌已经肿了。
Nail pricking more common, the pain is intolerable, each time Hu Xiaohong will cry, endure the work back home, feet have swollen.
有一回，胡晓红被3米高的钢管砸到了头，当场晕了过去。
Once, Hu Xiaohong was 3 meters high steel pipe hit the head, fainted on the spot.
去医院手术后，休息一段时间又回到工地。
After going to the hospital, I took a break and went back to work.
但遇到大风的天气和暴晒的时候，都会闷闷地头疼，包里常年得备着止疼药。
But in windy weather and in the sun, you get a sullen headache, and you have to keep pain medication in your bag all year round.
国家统计局发布的《2018年农民工监测调查报告》曾提到，在全部农民工中，女性占34.8%。
The 2018 Survey on Monitoring Migrant Workers, published by the National Bureau of Statistics, noted that women accounted for 34.8 percent of all migrant workers.
而今年中国钢铁工业协会的一次会议上，中国建筑集团有限公司总经理郑学选也提到，以前在中国的建筑工地上很少看到女建筑工人，女性都是做后勤工作，现在女建筑工人越来越多。
At a meeting this year of the China Steel Industry Association, Zheng Xuexian, general manager of the China Steel Industry Association, also mentioned that women construction workers were rarely seen on construction sites in China before and that women were doing logistics work, and there were more and more women construction workers.
按照当地一位工作了二十多年的招工人员的说法，女性一般做「小工」，一天工作8-10小时，工资在150-200之间，比更要求技术的「大工」们（大多是男性）可能要少一半。
According to a local recruiter who has worked for more than 20 years, women tend to work "menial jobs," working 8-10 hours a day and earning between 150 and 200, possibly less than half of the more skilled "big workers" (mostly men).
杨媛媛是一支劳务队伍的负责人，也在接到中建三局总承包公司紧急征调的通知后前往了火神山。
Liu Yuanyuan, the head of a labor force, also went to Mount Flamingo after receiving an urgent call from China Construction's General Contracting Company.
在她过往的观察中，包括水电工、焊工等一部分「大工」技术含量更高，体力劳动相对来说付出的少一些。
In her past observations, some of the "big jobs," including electricians and welders, were more skilled and relatively less physically demanding.
扎钢筋的大部分是女性，打下手的杂工也有很多女性，她们需要搬很重的东西，从事重体力劳动。
The steel bars are mostly female, and many women are handymen, who carry heavy loads and perform heavy manual work.
很多泥工会带着老婆一起上工地，丈夫砌墙，妻子就给他和灰，搬运砂浆。
Many mud unions took his wife to the construction site, her husband masonry walls, his wife gave him and ash, moving mortar.
她要不停地在工地上转运，一天可能一个女工在工地上就要走三、四万步。
She had to keep moving about the site, and a woman might have to walk between thirty and forty thousand steps a day.
此外，在工地上开塔吊的司机、开电器的工人大部分也是女性。
In addition, the drivers who drive the towers on the construction sites and the workers who operate the electrical appliances are mostly women.
杨媛媛（左一）在建筑工地上干活图源受访者4年前，胡晓红是一个家庭主妇。
Liu Yuanyuan (1st from left) Liu Yuanyuan was a housewife four years ago.
两个孩子读高中要花钱，丈夫挣的钱不够用，她也出来打工。
Two children go to high school to spend money, her husband does not earn enough money, she also came out to work.
工地时间灵活，方便顾家，家里有事的时候就能休息。
Site time is flexible, convenient to care for the home, the family can rest when necessary.
但她没有工地上的人脉，最初的时候，自己骑着自行车到处找工程，每到一个工地，就问老板还需不需要小工。
But she did not have network on the site, the first time, they rode bicycles around looking for work, every construction site, asked the boss also need small workers.
她逐渐能搬动6米长的钢管，30公斤的货物，学会打电钻，码钢筋、扎钢筋。
She gradually moved 6 meters of steel pipe, 30 kg of goods, learned to drill, code steel, bar.
胡晓红爱唱歌，平时看见大家干活儿累了，她就唱《粉红色的回忆》，有时是《女儿情》，有时是她喜欢的齐秦的歌。
Hu Xiaohong loves singing, usually see that everyone is tired of working, she will sing "Pink Remembrance", sometimes "Daughter," and sometimes her favorite Zi Qin songs.
现场的男工人们也跟着她哼起来。
The men at the scene hum along with her.
「我们做事有时做忘形了，做白日梦去了，一唱一喊，做事特别有劲。
"Sometimes we get carried away, we daydream away, we sing and sing, we do things with special energy.
」有人说她「傻」，但她不在乎别人怎么看，「只要我开心。
"Some say she is" silly, "but she doesn't care what people think," as long as I'm happy.
」在工地上休息的时候，她会组织大家一起做小时候的游戏，比如和工地上的姐妹们在刚搭好的毛坯房里玩老鹰抓小鸡、丢手绢。
During the worksite break, she would organize children to play games together, such as playing hawks and chickens and losing handkerchiefs with her sisters on the job site.
她们旁若无人地大声笑、大声喊。
They laughed and shouted loudly, all alone.
这是工作带来的一点点自由。
It's a little bit of freedom from work.
也许是她因为总能带动工友们的气氛。
Maybe she's the one who always gets her workmates going.
在工地上干活的4年时间里，她有了一群信任她的姐妹，她们组成了自己的女工突击队。
During the four years she worked on the site, she had a group of trusted sisters who formed their own women's commandos.
胡晓红能说普通话，嗓子亮，做事也往往是出众的一个，成了「带班的」。
Hu Xiaoxhong can speak Mandarin, voice bright, do things is often one of the outstanding, become "lead the class."
指挥工人的时候，她的声音能穿过闷沉的机械声。
Her voice traversed the heavy machinery as she directed the workers.
火神山工地上，有一天她和手下的男工人们去拉电缆，电缆又长又重，要有人喊节奏，大家一起使劲儿，才能挪动。
One day she and her men were pulling the cables. The cables were long and heavy. Someone had to shout for the rhythm. Everybody worked hard to move.
几个工头嗓子都哑了，胡晓红站出来，喇叭也没有，一遍遍喊，「加油」，「加油」，「你们是好样的。
Several foreman hoarse, Hu Xiaohong stood out, the trumpet did not, over and over again, "Come on," "Come on," "You are good.
」直到自己说不出话。
"Till he was speechless.
更多时候，胡晓红在工地上带的是女工，为了省外卖钱，她们起早做盒饭，到了中午时都凉了，许多人因此有胃病。
More often than not, Hu Xiaolong took female workers with her on the construction site. To save money, they got up early to make boxed rice, but by midday it was cold, causing stomach trouble for many.
她们相互照应，许多人包里都带着零食，谁饿了，胃不舒服了，就能在姐妹的包里找到吃的。
They take care of each other, and many carry snacks in their bags. Anyone who is hungry or has an upset stomach can find food in their sisters' bags.
韩桃宝喜欢在工地上聊家常。
Han Taobao likes to chat on the construction site.
有的人说，要给儿子攒钱买房子。
Some say they will save up money for their son to buy a house.
有的女工担心自己在外打工，小孩住在学校吃不上好菜。
Some female workers worry about working outside the home, the children live in school can not eat good food.
她们也聊今年晒了多少腊味，去了哪里拜年，小孩挣钱了有没有给家用。
They also talk about how much drying this year, where to visit the New Year, whether the children earn money for the family.
胡晓红喜欢出门。
Hu likes to go out.
有时，她去附近的体育馆散步，看姐妹们跳舞，她不会，就站在一边看。
Sometimes she goes for a walk in the nearby gym and watches the sisters dance. She doesn't. She just stands aside.
一个人在家的时候，她才会打开抖音，学几个舞步。
When a person is at home, she will turn on the chatter and learn a few dance steps.
工地上男性仍然占大多数。
Men are still in the majority on construction sites.
偶尔，她会在工地上碰到试图尾随和猥亵女工的行为。
Occasionally, she encountered attempts to stalk and molest female workers on the site.
起初的时候，她很怕，总是躲着那些爱开玩笑和动手动脚的人。
At first she was afraid, always avoiding people who were joking and manipulating.
「越是害怕，他们越要欺负你。
"The more scared they are, the more they bully you.
」她不得不让自己变得胆大。
"She had to be bold.
有一回，一个男工人走到她和几个姐妹旁边小便。
Once, a male worker walked up to her and his sisters and peed.
她冲上去就大骂，对方反而灰溜溜地跑了。
She rushed up and scolded her, but the other party ran away in frustration.
她的姐妹说，「胡姐，还好有你在，你不知道他已经这样好几次了。
Her sister said, "Sister Hu, thank you for being here. You don't know how many times he has been like this."
」遇到动手动脚的人，她第一时间告诉工地上管事的人：要是不开除他，她和姐妹们就要把挑事的人衣服脱光，挂在工地上。
"When she met the man who had started the work, she immediately told the man in charge of the construction site that if they did not fire him, she and her sisters would strip the pickers and hang them on the site.
每次她都胜利了。
Every time she wins.
女工们蹲在地上扎钢筋图源网络母亲女工们大多40-50岁，打工是为了供孩子上学，选择工地是为了挤出一点时间陪伴他们。
Women Workers Crouched on the Ground Embedded in a Network Movies are mostly 40-50-year-olds who work to pay for their children's education. Construction sites are chosen to squeeze in some time to accompany them.
即便如此，胡晓红仍然觉得愧对孩子。
Even so, Hu still feels guilty about her children.
她想要是自己能像有的父母一样陪伴孩子，不出去打工，不出去赚钱，就陪伴儿子一起，每天给他送饭，他也许成绩会更好一点，不会念职业中学。
She wanted to be able to accompany her children like some parents, not to go out to work, not to go out to earn money, to accompany his son, to bring him daily meals, he might be better off, not vocational secondary school.
韦翠梅到工地的原因也是如此。
The same is true of the reasons for Wei's arrival at the site.
她在火神山医院交付使用后进场清理工业垃圾。
She came into the yard to clean up industrial waste after being delivered to Mount Fujimori Hospital.
她不爱说话，但工地上比男人更卖力。
She is not talkative, but she works harder than men on the job site.
两百根水管，一人扛一根往前走，有时工人们搬累了，坐在一旁歇脚，但她要一直搬完那批货，直到下一辆货车到来的间隙，才休息几分钟。
There were two hundred pipes, one man carrying one, and sometimes the workmen, tired of moving, sat on their feet, but she had to carry the load until a few minutes' rest was left between the arrival of the next lorry.
最疲惫的时候，韦翠梅也没有想过换工作。
At her most exhausting moments, she did not want to change her job.
家里有4个孩子，最小的14岁，工地上的活儿通常从早上7点开始，下午5点左右结束，她能赶回去给孩子们做顿饭。
The family had four children, the youngest of whom was 14, and the work on the site usually began at 7 a.m. and ended around 5 p.m. She was able to rush back to cook meals for the children.
胡晓红一家人平时住在江夏的小区，接到援建火神山的任务之前，她刚刚带着两个孩子回到自己的老家——江夏区的舒安乡——过年。
The family usually live in a small district in Jiangxia. Before she was asked to build Mount Fire, she had just returned to her hometown of Shuan in Jiangxia with her two children for the New Year.
接到援建火神山医院的任务后，她连夜去了工地，两个孩子还呆在乡下。
She went to the construction site overnight after receiving help from the Fire Goddess Mountain Hospital. The two children are still in the countryside.
从火神山医院下来后，武汉封城后许多地方都封了路，她没办法从城里再去往舒安乡，孩子们也没办法回到城里。
After coming down from the Mount Huoshen Hospital, many places were sealed off in Wuhan, and she could not travel from the city to Shuan, nor could the children return to the city.
一种突如其来的状况发生了。
A sudden thing happened.
开学的日子延后了，各地都在上网课。
School day has been delayed, all over the Internet classes.
在这之前，胡晓红从来没想过，两个孩子要用两部手机上网课，而乡下家里只有一部智能手机。
Before that, Hu had never thought that two children would have to use two cell phones to surf the Internet, compared with a smartphone in the country home.
她想再买一部可以上网的智能手机，但却发现因为封路送不过去。
She wanted to buy another smartphone with Internet access, but found she couldn't get it through because of the road closures.
女儿在高中重点班，成绩能排在全年级前10名。
Daughter in the senior high school class, grades can be ranked in the top 10 year-round.
儿子的成绩不太理想，上职业高中。
My son did not do well in vocational high school.
最终，学习好的女儿得到了用手机上网课的机会。
Finally, the study good daughter got the opportunity to use the mobile phone surfer the class.
她很珍惜，每天早晨6点就起床学习，夜晚10点才结束。
She cherishes getting up and studying at 6 every morning and ending at 10 at night.
但儿子的学习就没办法顾上了。
But my son can't take care of his studies.
胡晓红打市长热线，到处托人情，想给儿子送一部手机去乡下。
Hu Xiaohong hit the mayor's hotline, people everywhere, want to send his son a mobile phone to the countryside.
但在新型冠状病毒带来的许多亟待解决的问题面前，送一部手机给儿子上网课的难题没有人理会。
But in the face of many urgent problems brought about by the new coronavirus, the problem of sending a mobile phone to his son for online classes has gone unnoticed.
但对母亲胡晓红来说，孩子读不上书是天大的事情。
But for her mother, Hu Xiaohong, it is a big thing that a child cannot read a book.
在接受《人物》采访时，她聊起了很多工作时的疲惫和困窘，但只有当说起网课时，胡晓红在采访中急出哭腔，耽误了孩子们的学习，她不知道如何是好。
In an interview with People, she talked about how tired and embarrassed she was at work, but only when talking about online classes did Hu cry aloud during the interview, delaying her children's studies.
「我无脸面对我两个孩子了。
"I have no face to face with my two children.
」孩子读书对她来说是顶重要的事情。
"Reading for her child is a matter of the utmost importance.
她一直很后悔自己五年级时的一个决定。
She's always regretted a decision she made in fifth grade.
那天她正在看借来的《故事会》，父亲问她，「这些字你都认得吗？」她好高兴，想得到爸爸的夸奖，她说，「都认识」。
She was reading the borrowed Story the other day when her father asked her, "Do you know all these words?" She was so happy to get a compliment from her father.
但是父亲却对她说，「那你下学期不要读书了，送你读书也是为别人读。
But the father said to her, "Then you will not study next semester. You will also be sent to read for others.
」她说，「要是当初我告诉我爸我不认识书上的字，我也许能多上一年学。
"If I had told Dad I didn't know the words in the book, I might have had an extra year of schooling," she said.
」没看够？长按二维码关注《人物》微信公号更多精彩的故事在等着你。
Not Enough? More exciting stories waiting for you, two-dimensional focus on People.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
已喜欢，对作者说句悄悄话。
Like it, whisper to the author.
发送给作者。
Send to author.
最多40字，当前共字。
Up to 40 words, currently in common.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
火神山上的女人们。
Women on Mount Fire.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "火神山上的女人们";。
var msg _ title = & quot; women at Rover Hill & quot;;
var msg_desc = "一遍遍喊，「加油」，「加油」，「你们是好样的。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; "Come on," "Come on," "You're good."
」";。
";;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
