全球供应链会停摆吗？|《财经》特报。
Will global supply chains falter? & # 160; Caijing Special.
蔡婷贻 等。
CHOI Ting-yee et al.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
尽管疫情影响到部分制造业零部件的加工生产，导致一些跨国公司生产中断，但并不会对供应链产生可以衡量的长期影响。
Although the epidemic affected the processing of parts and components in some manufacturing industries and led to disruptions in production by some TNCs, it did not have a measurable long-term impact on the supply chain.
中国30年打造的供应链，短期内无法被完全取代供应链的脆弱让不少欧美业者考虑转移生产的可能。
The fragility of China's 30-year-old supply chain, which cannot be completely replaced in the short term, has led many European and American operators to consider the possibility of shifting production.
图/新华文 |《财经》记者 蔡婷贻 王晓霞 降蕴彰 驻华盛顿特派记者 金焱编辑 | 王延春两周前，位于山东青岛的国轩电池开始分阶段复工，然而受限于原材料供应不足，目前复工率仅为50%。
Photo / Xinhua News reporter Cai Ting Wang Xiaoxia, a Washington-based journalist, started restarting work two weeks ago in phases at Guoxuan Battery in Qingdao, Shandong Province. But because of a shortage of raw materials, the rate is now only 50%.
不像国轩电池这么顺利，浙江嘉兴大麻镇的煜华纺织公司因为疫情“原料进不来，产品出不去”，至今仍无法开业。
Unlike Futagami battery so smooth, Zhejiang Jiaxing marijuana town Yuhua textile company because of the outbreak of "raw materials, products can not get out," still can not open.
其所在的大麻镇，以生产家纺产品闻名，整个镇截至2月24日有95%的企业尚未开业。
Its marijuana town, known for producing home textile products, had 95 per cent of its businesses open as of 24 February.
大门紧锁，少有人流。
Doors are locked and there are few people.
国轩能复工并非侥幸，该公司董事长汪卫东对《财经》记者指出，国轩在疫情发生第一时间就组建了抗击疫情领导小组，建立联络员制度、复工人员每日活动范围、身体状况登记制度，此外，企业每天测量三次体温，对工厂定时消毒、宿舍通风消毒、口罩等防疫物资储备发放都有要求。
Futagami was able to resume work by accident. Wang Weidong, the company's chairman, told Caijing that Futagami had set up a leading group to combat the epidemic immediately after the outbreak, set up a liaison officer system, daily activities for workers and a medical condition registration system.
他介绍，目前主要受制于原材料供应不足，产能无法完全恢复，企业只好根据自身原材料供应、生产订单等情况做应急安排。
He said, the main constraints on the supply of raw materials, capacity can not be fully restored, enterprises have to rely on their own raw materials supply, production orders and other circumstances to make contingency arrangements.
政府部门也提供了复产复工的绿色通道，订单部分未受疫情影响。
Government departments have also provided green passage for the resumption of production, with orders partially unaffected by the outbreak.
位于杭州的家具、卫浴设备供应商Sunzoom Household是获得美国酒店连锁品牌希尔顿认证的供应商，在重新安排生产和交货时间的同时，Sunzoom Household已经感觉到部分客户的裹足不前，因此在阿里巴巴的网站上用英文大字写着“工厂已经恢复运转，来谈生意吧”。
Sunzoom Household, a Hangzhou-based supplier of furniture and bathroom equipment certified by Hilton, a US hotel chain, has been rearranging production and delivery times while Sunzoom Household, feeling some customers balked, wrote in big English on Alibaba's website: "The factory is back in business."
该公司CEO许朝阳对《财经》记者指出，因为疫情，一些客户综合考量成本等问题，将部分订单转移到东南亚地区等情况确实存在。
Xu Chaoyang, CEO of Caijing, told Caijing that some orders have been moved to Southeast Asia because of the outbreak and the cost of some customers.
这场起自武汉的新型冠状病毒肺炎，短短数周蔓延中国也传播海外，不仅挑战全球医疗，更是侵蚀着全球经济。
The new coronavirus pneumonia, which began in Wuhan in a matter of weeks, has spread overseas, challenging not only global health care but also the global economy.
随着疫情在日本、韩国、意大利、伊朗蔓延，投资人信心开始变得灰暗。
As the epidemic spread to Japan, South Korea, Italy and Iran, investor confidence began to fade.
2月24日至26日三个交易日，道琼斯指数狂跌2000点。
Between February 24 and February 26, the Dow plunged 2,000 points.
牛津研究院预测，新冠肺炎疫情冲击将导致2020年全球经济增长减少0.2个百分点，年增速跌至2.3%。
The Oxford Institute predicts that the impact of the outbreak will reduce global economic growth by 0.2 percentage points to 2.3 per cent a year in 2020.
对全球经济供给和需求的双重负面影响尤其引发关注。
The double negative impact on supply and demand in the global economy is of particular concern.
中国、日本、韩国以及越南是全球制造业产业链的重要组成部分。
China, Japan, South Korea and Vietnam are important parts of the global manufacturing industry chain.
来自世界银行的数据显示，2018年，日本、韩国、越南的制造业增加值分别占世界总制造业增加值的7.11%、3.11%和0.28%。
According to data from the World Bank, in 2018, MVA from Japan, Korea and Viet Nam accounted for 7.11 per cent, 3.11 per cent and 0.28 per cent of world total MVA, respectively.
如果加上中国，则四国占世界制造业增加值接近40%。
If China is added, the four countries account for nearly 40 per cent of world MVA.
随着新冠肺炎疫情不断蔓延，当前全球制造业供应链的危机正在扩散。
The current crisis in the global manufacturing supply chain is spreading as the new crown pneumonia epidemic spreads.
更为重要的是，作为“世界工厂”，中国的供应链是全球嵌入式，疫情对中国经济和企业的影响开始逐渐波及到世界各地，比如电子行业、汽车行业，甚至游戏、快消等行业。
More importantly, as the "workshop of the world," China's supply chain is embedded globally, and the epidemic's impact on China's economy and businesses is beginning to ripple around the world, from electronics to automobiles to games and fast-moving industries.
韩国现代汽车就因为零部件供应缺口，在2月初暂停韩国的数个组装厂 ；日产汽车也因为同样原因暂停九州厂的生产；美国苹果公司宣布因受新型冠状病毒疫情影响，中国生产的芯片供应受阻，预计无法达成本季度的销售目标；而在大洋彼岸的游戏巨头任天堂旗下的热销产品Switch也因零部件短缺即将面临全球断货。
Hyundai suspended several assembly plants in South Korea in early February because of shortages in parts supplies; Nissan suspended production at Kyushu plants for the same reason; Apple Inc. said it was unable to meet this quarter's sales target because of a new coronavirus outbreak, while rival game giant Nintendo's Switch was facing a global shortage of components.
实际上，在中美贸易战及新型冠状病毒疫情的相继冲击之下，中国制造业供应链体系的长期稳定性亦引发关注，一些企业对制造业供应链安排的缺陷开始反思。
Indeed, under the impact of China-US trade war and the new coronavirus epidemic, the long-term stability of China's manufacturing supply chain system has also aroused concern.
尽管目前难以预测新型冠状病毒疫情究竟影响供应链几何，但一些企业已开始调整战略，其中包括在不同的国家建立多个供应商网络。
Although it is difficult to predict how the new coronavirus outbreak will affect the geometry of the supply chain, some companies have begun to adapt their strategies, including the establishment of multiple supplier networks in different countries.
缩短供应链，让沟通更便捷，重新安排和计算供货及物流，优化库存，等等。
Shorten supply chain, make communication easier, rearrange and calculate supply and logistics, optimize inventory, etc.
不过，很多企业也看到危中存机。
However, many companies also see the crisis in the machine.
在新冠肺炎疫情对制造业供应链冲击的大考下，企业意识到自身供应链在规划与管理上的弱点和盲点。
In the case of the impact of the SARS epidemic on the manufacturing supply chain, enterprises are aware of their own supply chain planning and management weaknesses and blind spots.
从供应链的串联到并联，从柔性链到韧性链，企业希望制造业供应体系的完善得以应对未来可能出现的自然灾害、政局动荡等诸多黑天鹅或灰犀牛事件。
From supply chain to parallel, from flexible chain to ductile chain, enterprises hope that the manufacturing supply system can cope with future natural disasters, political instability and many other black swan or grey rhino events.
中国制造的地位和市场2月18日美国苹果公司发出财务预警指出，由于在中国的代工厂受疫情影响恢复生产比预期慢，因此至3月底为止的季度营收可能无法达到原定630亿－670亿美元的目标。
China-made status and markets Apple Inc. (AAPL) said Wednesday that quarterly revenue growth through the end of March could fall short of its original target of $63 billion to $67 billion, as outgrowers in China have been slower than expected to resume production because of the epidemic.
消息一出，苹果股价一度下跌2%，带动其他亚洲零部件供应商股价下滑。
Shares of Apple fell 2 per cent in the wake of the news, driving shares of other Asian parts suppliers down.
在苹果发出预警之前，日本游戏公司任天堂2月6日通过推特向消费者宣布，新版Switch受到疫情影响将延迟销售；接着美国玩具公司MGA 指出，疫情已经影响到圣诞节玩具出货，目前情况“让人非常挫折”。
The warning comes after Nintendo tweeted to consumers on February 6 that sales of a new version of Switch would be delayed, and then the US toy company MGA said the situation was "very frustrating" as it affected shipments of Christmas toys.
目前中国贡献着80%的全球玩具生产。
China currently accounts for 80 per cent of global toy production.
以美国玩具公司MGA为例，该公司签约的50家国内厂商通常在农历年后开始生产秋季和圣诞节订单，但是疫情导致工厂复工延迟，该公司总裁拉兰（IssacLarian）指出，“2020年的圣诞节就是12月25日，你不可能把它延后。
Consider the US toy company MGA, whose 50 domestic manufacturers typically start placing fall and Christmas orders after the Chinese New Year, but the outbreak delays the resumption of factory work, and IssacLarian, the company's president, points out that "Christmas 2020 is December 25, and you can't delay it."
”随着新型冠状病毒疫情蔓延，中国各地工厂和工人配合落实相关防疫措施，有的延迟复工，有的产能不足，对全球制造业供应链造成不同程度的冲击，不少产业面临停摆或断链，其中电子业和汽车制造业尤为明显。
As the new coronavirus epidemic spreads, factories and workers across China have cooperated in implementing relevant epidemic prevention measures, some of which have delayed the resumption of work or have insufficient production capacity, causing varying degrees of impact on the global manufacturing supply chain.
传统制造业中服装、制鞋和玩具业等也因工厂延迟开工或产线无法完全恢复而开始担心下半年的产品供应短缺。
The garment, footwear and toy industries in traditional manufacturing are also beginning to worry about shortages in the second half of the year because factories are running late or production lines are not fully recovering.
根据统计，中国是全世界唯一拥有联合国产业分类当中全部工业门类的国家。
According to statistics, China is the only country in the world that has all the industrial categories in the United Nations Industrial Classification.
在世界500多种主要工业产品当中，中国有220多种工业产品的产量居全球第一。
Among the more than 500 major industrial products in the world, China ranks first in the output of more than 220 industrial products.
麦肯锡咨询公司2019年发表的中国与世界报告指出，自2003年以来，中国对全球经济的依赖在降低，但是全球经济对中国的依赖却在增加。
China and the World Report, published by McKinsey & Company in 2019, points out that while China's dependence on the global economy has declined since 2003, its reliance on China has increased.
报告指出，中国自2009年成为全球最大出口国，2013年成为最大货物贸易国，全球货物贸易占比从2000年的1.9%提升到2017年的11.4%。
According to the report, China had become the world's largest exporter since 2009 and the largest trading country for goods in 2013, with the share of global trade in goods rising from 1.9 per cent in 2000 to 11.4 per cent in 2017.
同时中国也是33个国家的最大出口国，65个国家的最大进口国。
China is also the largest exporter of 33 countries and the largest importer of 65.
该报告估算，中国对全球制造业的贡献达35%，其中零部件占外国品牌手机的35％－50％、农业机械的60％－80%、电子汽车的60％－75%。
The report estimates China's contribution to global manufacturing at 35 per cent, with parts and components accounting for 35-50 per cent of foreign brand phones, 60-80 per cent of agricultural machinery and 60-75 per cent of electronic vehicles.
不只是制造，世界银行统计显示，自2010年－2017年中国带动了全球家庭消费增长31%，同时也是全球最大的汽车、手机、奢侈品和酒类市场，占全球消费市场的30%。
More than just manufacturing, according to the World Bank, China led global household consumption growth of 31% from 2010 to 2017, and is the world's largest market for automobiles, mobile phones, luxury goods, and alcohol, accounting for 30% of global consumer demand.
根据统计，这次疫情将减少全球奢侈品市场约400亿美元的营收，英国风衣品牌Burberry、美国皮件Coach 和拉夫劳伦（Ralph Lauren）都已经发出营收预警。
The outbreak is expected to reduce global luxury-goods market revenues by about $40 billion, with the U.K. clothing brands Burberry, American leather goods Coach and Ralph Lauren all giving warning of revenue.
这场突入其来的疫情让国内外企业首次同时面对供需都出现缺口的挑战。
The outbreak has made it the first time domestic and foreign companies have faced the challenge of a gap between supply and demand.
美国商会上海分会2月11日－14日针对109家长三角美商的调查显示，48%接受调查企业的全球业务已经受到疫情影响。
The Shanghai branch of the American Chamber of Commerce surveyed 109 American businessmen on Feb. 11-14 and found that 48 percent of the businesses surveyed had been affected by the epidemic in their global operations.
其中35%的企业指出，目前最需要做的就是允许工厂复工，78%接受调查企业指出，他们缺乏足够人员来恢复全产能，41%的企业强调缺工是他们在未来2周－4周遇到的最大问题。
Of those, 35 per cent said that what was needed most was to allow factories to return to work, 78 per cent said they lacked sufficient staff to restore full capacity, and 41 per cent highlighted job absenteeism as their biggest problem in the next two to four weeks.
除此之外，58%的企业也开始担心未来数月市场需求会低于常态。
In addition, 58% of companies are beginning to worry about subnormal demand in the coming months.
欧洲商会2月27日公布的最新调查显示，90%的商会成员表示受到疫情中度或高度影响，将近一半的成员表示企业营收将出现两位数下滑，25%成员表示营收将下滑超过20%。
According to a new survey released on February 27 by the European Chamber of Commerce, 90 percent of chamber members said they were moderately or highly affected by the epidemic, nearly half said double-digit revenue would fall and 25 percent said revenue would fall by more than 20 percent.
“制造中心”会否停摆商业机构邓白氏（Dun&Bradstreet）从国内疫区和产业比对出疫情可能造成的具体伤害，2月11日发布的报告指出，新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情影响的主要行业依序为服务业、批发业和制造业，这几个行业的65%相关业务在疫情感染区域内。
Whether or not MCC will stop comparing the specific harm that a commercial firm, Dun & amp; Bradstreet, may have caused by comparing its endemic areas and industries, a report released on February 11 said that the main industries affected by the new coronavirus pneumonia are services, wholesale and manufacturing, with 65% of the businesses in those sectors located in the affected areas.
新加坡AC贸易咨询公司周美玲（Angelia Chew）对《财经》记者表示，原材料和零部件的供应缺口是中国以外制造商面对的迫切问题、物流是第二个问题，“有的尽管找到材料，但是飞机禁运”。
Angelia Chew, a Singapore-based trade consultancy, told Caijing that the gap in the supply of raw materials and parts was a pressing problem for manufacturers outside China.
在供应链的紧密分工下，缺少一个小螺丝或弹簧，就可能导致整个产品无法完成制造。
The absence of a small screw or spring in the supply chain's tight division of labour may prevent the entire product from being manufactured.
以一个1元人民币的美容产品容器为例，需要塑料瓶身、弹簧和钢珠组成压头，因为空瓶占空间，美容产品厂家平时不预留库存，但是现在受疫情影响，全球美容产品业者面临买不到空瓶的困境而无法出货。
For example, a one yuan container for beauty products requires plastic bottles, springs and steel beads to form the head, because empty bottles occupy space, beauty products manufacturers do not reserve stocks, but now, affected by the epidemic, the global beauty product manufacturers face the dilemma of not buying empty bottles and can not be shipped.
部分中国台湾地区的从业者考虑向韩国下单时，却发现韩国厂商的生产基地也在中国大陆。
When some Chinese Taiwan practitioners considered placing orders with South Korea, they found that South Korean producers were also based in mainland China.
纺织业者对供应链的缺口也十分着急。
Textile manufacturers are also anxious about the supply chain gap.
五洋纺织总经理王水对《财经》记者指出，配套的外协单位，像铸造、电镀、发黑处理、热处理等行业复工进度较为缓慢，影响到整个生产供应链。
Wang Shui, general manager of Wuyang Textile, told Caijing that the supporting foreign coordination units, such as casting, electroplating, blackening, heat treatment and other industries are slow to resume work, affecting the entire production supply chain.
他预估影响可能持续到4月－5月份，“第一季的数据估计不能看。
He predicts the impact will likely continue into April-May, "first-quarter estimates don't look good.
我做最坏的打算，储备3个月的流动资金，渡过难关，纺织行业打击还是很大的。
I prepared for the worst, three months of liquidity reserves to tide over the difficulties, the textile industry is still hit hard.
”美国供应链咨询公司Sourcify芮氏尼克（Nathan Resnick）对《财经》记者指出，各个行业现在急着寻找新的替代供应商。
Nathan Resnick, a US supply chain consultancy, told Caijing that industries were rushing to find new alternative suppliers.
根据国泰君安的调查，疫情暴发阶段，短期供应链风险将集中在汽车与机械设备（零部件）、光学电子设备（半导体材料）和化工产品。
According to Guotai Junan's survey, short-term supply chain risks will focus on automobiles and mechanical equipment (parts and components), optical electronic equipment (semiconductor materials) and chemical products.
但是国泰君安首席经济学家花长春对《财经》记者解释，产业链是上下游需求的问题，供应链主要是指同一产业上零部件是否齐全。
But Changchun, chief economist of Guotai Junan, explained to Caijing that the industrial chain is a matter of upstream and downstream demand and that the supply chain mainly refers to whether parts and components are complete in the same industry.
他解释，这次疫情打乱全球供应链的其中一个原因是因为中国是中间品的主要提供者。
He explained that one reason the outbreak disrupted global supply chains was because China was a major supplier of intermediates.
联合国商品贸易统计（Comtrade）数据库显示，中国对64个国家中间品的出口占当地国家的比重超过10%，全球主要经济体基本都包含在内。
China's exports of intermediate goods to 64 countries account for more than 10 per cent of the country's exports, according to the UN Comtrade database, which includes most of the world's major economies.
欧洲商会主席伍德克对《财经》记者指出，供应链越长的产业，相关企业就会遇到越多问题。
'The longer the supply chain, the more problems the companies will encounter, 'European Chamber of Commerce Chairman John Wuttke told Caijing.
以汽车制造为例，就算其中一家零部件厂开始顺利运转，但是当其他重要零部件生产延后时，生产线终究会面临无法完成组装。
In the case of car manufacturing, even if one of the parts plants starts to run smoothly, the production line will eventually run out of assembly when production of other important parts is delayed.
以电子产品制造而言，各工厂产能缩减之外，核心原料的供应不足也影响最终产品的组装。
In the case of electronics manufacturing, the lack of supply of core raw materials, in addition to the reduced capacity of plants, also affects the assembly of final products.
制造电视机、钟表、汽车玻璃所需的稀土生产，由于货车司机拒绝进出疫区，稀土供应一旦出现短缺，电子产品制造面临中断危机。
Production of rare earths for television sets, clocks and car glass is at risk of disruption in electronics manufacturing once truckers refuse to move into or out of affected areas and rare earth supplies are in short supply.
就算原材料供应可以解决，企业内部的防疫措施是另一层挑战。
Even if the supply of raw materials can be addressed, immunization within the enterprise is another challenge.
手机传感器供应商对《财经》记者指出，疫情蔓延造成工厂目前只能恢复40%的产能，其他零部件厂的情况也大概如此。
Caijing told Caijing that the spread of the epidemic has allowed factories to restore only 40% of their production capacity, and probably other parts plants.
主要原因除了工人回到工厂需要先隔离14天外，目前复工的工厂要求工人需间隔2公尺。
The main reason is that, apart from the fact that workers have to be quarantined for 14 days before returning to work, factories now require workers to be separated by 2 metres.
如果疫情能顺利控制，产能完全恢复最快也要到4月。
If the outbreak is under control, full recovery in capacity could be achieved as soon as April.
负责组装iPhone、全球桌上型电脑、笔记本电脑等电子产品的富士康为了复工，2月5日开始在广东龙华试产口罩，希望2月底达日产200万只口罩的目标。
Foxconn, which assembles electronics such as iPhones, desktops and laptops, began trial-producing masks in Longhua, Guangdong, on February 5, hoping to reach its goal of producing two million masks a day by the end of February.
富士康台湾母公司鸿海精密2月20日公告指出，目前复工较为谨慎，疫情对全年营收将带来负面影响。
Foxconn Taiwan parent Hon Hai Precision announced February 20 that the resumption of work is more cautious, the epidemic will have a negative impact on annual revenue.
根据报道，富士康郑州厂和深圳厂受到较大冲击，目前正缓慢复工。
According to reports, Foxconn Zhengzhou Factory and Shenzhen Factory have been a big impact, is now slowly resuming work.
国泰君安的调查显示，2月底除湖北地区外，全国的复工情况会好起来，湖北地区预计3月底前会起来。
Guotai Junan's survey shows that, with the exception of Hubei province, the work situation will improve at the end of February, and Hubei region is expected to get up by the end of March.
“疫情对企业的影响不会很大，比如通信行业只要复工了，我相信肯定是加班加点地运转，机械设备不用休息，人员可以三班倒，只要复工之后疫情没有出现反复，很快就可以把供应链赶上来。
"The impact of the epidemic on businesses will not be significant, as long as the communications industry is back on the job, and I am sure it will work overtime, machinery and equipment do not need to rest, people can work three shifts, as long as there is no recurrence of the epidemic after the resumption of work, can quickly catch up the supply chain.
”花长春强调，“总体上看，我觉得短期风险是可控的，因为目前看上去整个疫情的数据除了湖北地区之外都明显好转，湖北地区相信按照目前的力度推进下去也会好转。
"On the whole, I think the short-term risk is manageable," Flower stressed, noting that "overall, I think the short-term risk is manageable, as the overall data for the epidemic seem to be improving significantly except in Hubei, which is confident it will get better at the current rate."
”拯救脆弱的供应链国内庞大市场的吸引力和完整的产业链伴随着疫情的发生，对欧美企业形成新的布局考验，近来在美国2020总统初选也成为关注焦点。
The attraction of the huge domestic market and the integrity of the industrial chain to save the fragile supply chain have combined with the outbreak of the epidemic to test the layout of US and European companies, with the recent US presidential primaries becoming the focus of attention.
美国民主党候选人华伦指出，美国应该想办法把疫情对供应链制造的伤害管控到最小，美国政府应该帮助美国制造商找到替代零部件供应商，同时协助出口商找到新客户。
Democratic presidential candidate Warren said the United States should find a way to minimise the damage caused by the epidemic to supply chains. The U.S. government should help U.S. manufacturers find alternative parts suppliers and exporters find new customers.
伍德克也指出，受这次疫情影响，企业在全球布局上希望能够找到完全取代中国产能的地方，此前美中贸易战确实让部分企业重新思考他们对中国的依赖，新型冠状病毒疫情更加重了这个问题。
Mr Wuttke also pointed out that the epidemic had left companies looking globally to find places to replace Chinese production capacity entirely, after the US-China trade war did lead some companies to rethink their reliance on China, a problem exacerbated by the new coronavirus outbreak.
供应链的脆弱让不少欧美业者考虑转移生产的可能。
The fragility of supply chains has led many European and American operators to consider the possibility of shifting production.
上述传感器业者指出，这次疫情意外中断的制造对企业造成严重的心理冲击，为了规避风险所有外籍干部暂时不用到疫区出差，接下来“欧美产品的零部件制造都得考虑移出中国以分散风险……后面的客户要求已形成庞大压力”。
According to the sensor industry, the unexpected interruption of the outbreak caused serious psychological impact on enterprises, in order to avoid the risk of all foreign cadres to temporarily travel to epidemic areas, and then "Europe and the United States products parts manufacturing have to consider moving out of China to spread the risk... The latter customer requirements have created a huge pressure."
中国社科院世经所研究员徐奇渊告诉《财经》记者，中国出口的中间产品无法交货，确实导致其他国家生产过程出现中断。
Xu Qiyuan, a researcher at the China Institute of Social Sciences, told Caijing that the inability to deliver intermediate products from China did lead to disruptions in production in other countries.
若疫情持续发酵，全球供应链的冲击将可能沿两条主线展开：一条主线是，对中国中间品依赖度普遍较高的新兴市场和发展中国家的供应链危机，但对应的产业集成度较低，破坏相对有限。
If the epidemic continues, the impact of global supply chains could unfold along two main lines: one is the crisis in supply chains in emerging and developing countries, which are generally more dependent on Chinese intermediates, but the corresponding industries are less integrated and less disruptive.
另一条是供应链冲击在欧美日之间扩散、放大，一些集成度较高的供应链将遭到破坏，全球经济将陷入灰犀牛式的冲击。
The other is that supply-chain shocks proliferate and amplify between Europe and the US and Japan, disrupting some of the more integrated supply chains and plunging the global economy into a rhino-like shock.
不过，全球产业集群的“备胎”不可能一夜之间完成。
But the "spare tire" of global industrial clusters cannot be accomplished overnight.
随着中美贸易争端加剧，很多企业急于在东南亚国家建立新的供应链，但他们很快发现，没有任何地方能像中国这样可以提供完整的解决方案。
As the Sino-US trade dispute intensifies, many companies are eager to build new supply chains in Southeast Asian countries, but they soon find that nowhere can a complete solution be found like China's.
卢森堡供应链专家曼汀对《财经》记者指出，这次疫情对供应链的挑战，反映出的其实是供应链不完全透明造成的脆弱，这次冲击引发的讨论是替代供应链的重要性，但是替代供应商如果是同一个国家，问题仍无法解决，况且随着疫情在全球升温，对疫情已经不再是个别国家的问题了。
Luxembourg supply chain expert Martin told Caijing that the supply chain challenge reflects the fragility of the supply chain due to incomplete transparency. The shock sparked discussion about the importance of alternative supply chains, but if the alternative suppliers are the same country, the problem cannot be solved, and as the epidemic warms up globally, the epidemic is no longer a problem for individual countries.
在跨国企业需考量市场和避险的同时，花长春认为，接下来一些跨国企业会提高库存，此次疫情的冲击可能会使企业重新思考最优库存问题；接着电子和通信业可能加快把部分供应链转移到海外。
While multinationals need to think about markets and risk aversion, Ms. Hua thinks the next few multinationals will raise inventories, and the impact of the epidemic could prompt companies to rethink their optimal inventories.
但是国内一直担忧的大规模转移不会轻易发生。
But the massive shift that has been worrying at home will not happen easily.
一位市场调研中心的专家对《财经》记者强调，中国围绕产业链形成的产业链、供应链、服务链、价值链体系是完整的，整个服务配套能力以及上下游关系，是经过几十年市场跨国界合作形成的，目前，大部分制造业产业集群仍在中国。
China's industrial chain, supply chain, service chain and value chain system formed around the industrial chain are integrated, and the whole service supporting capacity and upstream-downstream relationship is formed after decades of cross-border market cooperation, "an expert from the Market Research Center told Caijing.
“尽管这次疫情带来的冲击很大，但中国在全球供应链中的地位仍然会稳固。
"Despite the impact of the epidemic, China's position in global supply chains will remain strong."
产业链、供应链、服务链转移的成本高昂，转移速度也不会那么快。
The transfer of industrial chains, supply chains and service chains is costly and not as fast.
”上述专家补充表示，近来的转移热点印度和越南等国家在基础设施、劳动力、政策配套等都仍有不足。
The experts add that countries such as India and Vietnam, the recent transfer hotspots, are still short on infrastructure, labour and policy packages.
熟悉东南亚整体情况的周美玲也同意这个看法，尽管欧美客户希望分散风险，但是东南亚国家无论在基础设施、工人数量和技术上都无法立即承接转单，全球对中国制造的依赖短期间无法取代，“只要能克服这次挑战，需求还是在”。
Zhou Meiling, who is familiar with Southeast Asia's overall situation, agrees that, while clients in Europe and the US want to spread risk, Southeast Asian countries cannot immediately take orders on infrastructure, the number of workers, and technology, and global dependence on Chinese-made goods cannot be replaced in the short term, "as long as this challenge can be overcome, demand remains."
Cox Pacific 咨询机构负责人贺翔对《财经》记者强调，中国花30年打造的供应链，短期内无法被完全取代，部分国家和企业领导人或许过度恐慌了，“没有足够的理由让人们这样恐慌。
The 30-year-old supply chain in China cannot be replaced entirely in the short term, and some state and corporate leaders may have panicked excessively, "there's not enough reason to panic," He Xiang, head of Cox Pacific, told Caijing.
我相信它会对供应链产生一些短期的影响，一些订单会被延迟或重新规划，也很可能出现短缺的问题，但是我不认为此次新冠病毒疫情暴发对供应链会产生可以衡量的长期影响”。
I believe it will have some short-term impact on the supply chain, some orders will be delayed or reprogrammed, and there will likely be shortages, but I don't think this outbreak will have a measurable long-term impact on the supply chain. "
中美贸易战倒逼中国加速向产业链高端布局，能撑得过近两年贸易战洗礼的企业，不会因为一个多月疫情的冲击断然舍弃中国。
The Sino-US trade war has forced China to accelerate its high-end distribution to the industrial chain. Enterprises that can survive the trade war of the last two years will not abandon China altogether because of the impact of the epidemic for more than a month.
这几年产业链该转移的都基本转移了，留下来的产业链不容易被轻易替代。
In recent years, the transfer of the industrial chain is basically transferred, the industrial chain left is not easy to replace.
本文首刊于2020年3月2日出版的《财经》杂志▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
This article, first published on March 2, 2020, in Caijing Magazine, has more responsibility and responsibility for reporting the epidemic. Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
全球供应链会停摆吗？|《财经》特报。
Will global supply chains falter? & # 160; Caijing Special.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "全球供应链会停摆吗？|《财经》特报";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Will global supply chains falter? & # 160; & quot; Caijing & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & #
var msg_desc = "尽管疫情影响到部分制造业零部件的加工生产，导致一些跨国公司生产中断，但并不会对供应链产生可以衡量的长期影响。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; although the outbreak affected the processing of parts and components in some manufacturing industries, resulting in disruptions in production by some TNCs, it does not have a measurable long-term impact on the supply chain.
中国30年打造的供应链，短期内无法被完全取代";。
China's 30-year-old supply chain cannot be completely replaced by AT & quot;; anytime soon.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
