转产口罩有多难：福建商人投200万，30天过去了还没能开工。
How difficult it is to turn over masks: Fujian businessmen put in two million, 30 days later has not been able to start.
吴容。
Wu Rong.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
记者：吴容  编辑：牙韩翔“ 周旋在寻找设备、采购原料以及申报批文之中，至今未转产出口罩。
Reporter: Wu Rong: "Zhou Xiang in the search for equipment, procurement of raw materials and declaration of approval, so far has not turned the output of masks.
”30多天过去了，于国宏的公司还没转产出一枚口罩。
More than 30 days later, Yu Guohong's company hasn't yet turned out a mask.
于国宏在福建从事建材生意，2月3日开始响应号召转产口罩之后，他一直周旋在寻找设备、采购原料以及申报批文之中，却接连陷入窘境。
Mr. Yu, who runs a building-materials business in Fujian province, has been struggling to find equipment, procure materials and file approvals since February 3, when he began responding to calls for masks.
“到现在，打了200多万元进去，几乎没有什么实质进展。
"So far, more than two million dollars have been pumped in, and there's hardly any real progress.
”于国宏说。
"said Yu Guohong.
都说隔行如隔山，何况是在疫情这样紧急关头短时间转产。
All said that every other line, not to mention in an emergency such as the short-term conversion of production.
在讨论初期，于国宏和公司几个合伙亲戚产生意见分歧，大家都不妥协的结果是，于国宏“不撞南墙不回头”，拉了十多人的团队自己单干。
At the beginning of the discussion, Yu Guohong and several of the company's partner relatives disagreed, everyone did not compromise the result, Yu Guohong "do not hit the south wall do not look back," the team of more than 10 people to work alone.
打造一条完整的口罩生产线，除了需要洁净或无尘的车间，还需要口罩本体制造机及其他自动化设备。
To build a complete mask production line, you need a mask body manufacturer and other automation equipment in addition to clean or dustless workshops.
机器的作用主要是让三层无纺布焊贴成一片，在附上金属鼻夹、口罩带后，口罩大致成形，便可打包装箱发往市场。
The main function of the machine is to let three-layer non-woven fabric welded into a piece, in addition to metal nose clips, masks, roughly formed, can be packed to market.
除了公司场地可以派上用场，口罩设备材料均需要重新添置。
In addition to the company site can be used, mask equipment and materials need to be re-bought.
只是于国宏没想到，实际难度超过了他的想象。
Only Kuo Hong did not expect, the actual difficulty exceeded his imagination.
于国宏建材公司厂房。
Yu Guohong Building Materials Factory.
图片来源：采访对象在口罩机上订购上，他就先栽了跟头。
Source: Interviewer on the mask machine order, he first planted a somersault.
“我们没有人指导，只能自己在天眼查上一家家工厂去摸索，从供货期、价格以及性能等方面来筛选。
"We have no one to guide us, but can only find out in the eye of each factory, from the supply period, prices and performance aspects of screening.
”口罩设备厂在全国不超过100家，专业大厂少，且优先供应政府采购，于国宏先前锁定的7、8家工厂都一一回绝。
The factory, which has no more than 100 factories nationwide, has few major specialty factories and gives priority to government procurement.
无奈之下，他和同事只好开始检索一些临时转产设备的工厂。
Unable to do so, he and his colleagues began to search a number of temporary conversion facilities factories.
经过近半个月来回折腾，终于敲定一家，“它以前没有生产过口罩机，我看规模还算过得去，有2000多人。
After nearly half a month tossing around, finally finalised one, "it has not made a mask machine before, I think the size is reasonable, more than 2,000 people.
”双方签订合同，每分钟生产80-100枚口罩的自动化设备协商价格是52万元，打包机等费用另付，交货日在3月8日。
The two sides signed a contract for an agreed price of 520,000 yuan for automated equipment to produce 80-100 masks per minute, plus separate charges for chartered aircraft on March 8.
口罩生产线。
Mask production line.
图片来源：澎湃而打款几天之后，于国宏突然收到设备厂来电，称出于某些原因，设备产量没法达到每分钟100枚，只能保证每分钟80枚的水平。
Photo source: Pai Pai and a few days later, Yu Guohong suddenly received a phone call from the equipment factory, said that for some reason, the production of equipment can not reach 100 per minute, can only guarantee the level of 80 per minute.
意识到自己被忽悠，于国宏很气愤，“三四十万元的自动化口罩机一般都能（每分钟）生产100枚，我花了50多万，当初签合同时就已经很委屈，又临时变卦……”周围转产企业们购买设备的惨痛经历，让更多的忧虑浮上于国宏的心头。
Realizing that he was being tricked, Yu said angrily, "An automated mask machine of 300,000 yuan can produce 100 units (per minute). I spent more than half a million dollars.
“我认识的一个老板，残疾人，不太会用网购，花了13万块钱订口罩打包机，约定2月15号发货，等到快三月份了工厂还没发货。
"One boss I know, disabled people, is not very good at using the Internet to buy, spent 130,000 yuan on masks and chartered flights, scheduled for February 15, and the factory hasn't delivered until nearly March.
还有一个老板，花了四五十万买回来的口罩机根本都不能用，缺少一个零配件，机器就是一堆废铁，（工厂）不负责安装，也不负责维修，什么售后都没有。
Another boss, who spent four or a half million dollars to buy a respirator, didn't work, lacked a spare part, was a pile of scrap metal, and was not responsible for installation, maintenance or aftersale.
这个行业存在很多的坑、很大的风险。
There are many pits and big risks in this industry.
”于国宏说。
"said Yu Guohong.
于国宏说的踩坑无数，体现在原材料熔喷布的采购上。
Yu Guohong said the crater countless, reflected in the purchase of raw materials melting cloth.
常见的医用口罩，主要由三层无纺布组成。
Common medical masks, mainly composed of three non-woven cloth.
内层是普通无纺布，外层为做过防水处理的无纺布，最为重要的在于中间过滤层，需要用到聚丙烯制的熔喷布，用来防止细菌渗透。
The inner layer is a common non-woven fabric, the outer layer is a waterproof non-woven cloth, the most important is the intermediate filter layer, the need to use polypropylene molten cloth, to prevent bacterial penetration.
口罩三层展示。
Three-storey mask display.
疫情前不过每吨2万左右的熔喷布，眼下市场价已飙升到每吨40万元，还“一布难求”。
The market has soared to 400,000 yuan a tonne, from about 20,000 a tonne before the outbreak, and is "hard to find."
大公司如比亚迪也曾公开喊话，我有口罩机，没有熔喷布。
Big companies like BYD have shouted publicly, I have a mask machine, there is no melting cloth.
于国宏遇到更离谱的是，一个企业想拿一吨熔喷布和他们交换30万个口罩，按口罩零售单价3元计算，30万个口罩就是90万价值，意味着熔喷布每吨能炒到了90万元天价。
To make matters worse, one company wants to exchange a ton of spray cloth for 300,000 masks, and 300,000 face masks are worth 900,000 yuan at a retail price of 3 yuan for masks, meaning that they can fetch 900,000 yuan a ton.
熔喷布价格疯涨，归根结底在于生产熔喷布企业的缺乏。
Melting cloth prices soaring, in the final analysis is the lack of production smelter enterprises.
口罩需求量原来不大，全国生产医用熔喷布企业大约有20多家，且都是几十亿规模的大中企业，小企业则生产标准比较低的、用于民用口罩的熔喷布。
The demand for masks was small. There are more than 20 medical spray enterprises in China, and they are large and medium-sized enterprises of several billion scale.
疫情爆发在春节，这些企业复工复产也没及时跟上。
The outbreak occurred during the Spring Festival, these enterprises have not been able to resume production in time.
此外，于国宏觉得，不排除流通过程之中有人囤积熔喷布，借机把价格抬高。
In addition, Yu Guohong felt that the circulation process does not exclude the hoarding of melts, the opportunity to raise prices.
于国宏的团队里有一半人都在寻找熔喷布。
Half of Yu Guohong's team are looking for melts.
除了企查查、天眼查，大家加了一些微信资源群进行求购，一看到有回应弹出，他们就迅速打电话联系。
In addition to the enterprise search, sky-eye investigation, we added a number of micro-credit resources to buy, as soon as they see a response pop-up, they quickly called contact.
大多数时候，这些电话都没有什么希望。
Most of the time, these phone calls are hopeless.
于国宏每天只睡4小时，凌晨2、3点躺下，6、7点又爬起来上网搜资源。
Yu Guohong sleeps only 4 hours a day, lies down at 2, 3 in the morning, and climbs up again at 6, 7 o'clock surf the net resources again.
于国宏已对厂房车间进行整改，只待机器到货。
Yu Guohong has carried on the rectification to the workshop, only waits for the machine to arrive.
图片来源：采访对象终于，于国宏辗转多处打听到，北京一家公司从德国进口了300多吨熔喷布，立刻谈好30吨的口头合同，不料第二天对方拒绝发货，“他们有的业务员说已经卖掉了，有的人说出了问题，真实原因根本不知道是什么。
2007-9-24 16: 23 [hide] www.youtheme.cn www.youtheme.cn www.youtheme.cn www.youtheme.cn www.youtheme.cn Finally, Mr. Yu found out that a Beijing company had imported more than 300 tons of lava from Germany and immediately negotiated a 30-ton oral contract.
我们加价也没用，反正无法交货。
It's useless for us to raise the price, we can't deliver anyway.
最后100万打款全退回来。
One million bucks is all coming back.
”于国宏说。
"said Yu Guohong.
“那公司这两天又和我说，未来几天又有货到。
'That company has been telling me for the last two days that there will be another shipment in the next few days.
”于国宏感到被动却又无可奈何，还是打了90多万元过去。
"Yu Guohong felt passive but helpless, or played more than 900,000 yuan.
不仅采购上经历一番大起大落，于国宏的相关生产批文至今也还没拿到手。
Not only the procurement has experienced a lot of ups and downs, in the macro-related production approval has not yet been hand.
一次性口罩可粗略分为医用和民用两种。
Disposable masks can be roughly divided into two categories: medical and civilian.
据于国宏的了解，医用口罩需要获批三个证，包括生产许可证、医疗器械注册证和食药监发的许可证。
According to Kuo Hong's understanding, three licenses are required for medical masks, including production licenses, medical device registration certificates and food surveillance licenses.
而民用口罩除生产许可外，要取得权威第三方检验机构的检验报告，同时包装上不得声称为医用口罩，无需办理医疗器械注册证。
In addition to the production permit for civilian masks, to obtain an authoritative third-party inspection report, packaging must not claim to be a medical mask, do not need to obtain medical device registration certificate.
“两个标准对设备、原料的要求基本一致，最主要差别在于，医用口罩对硬件设施要求高，必须用到至少10万级洁净车间，民用口罩的车间标准也不低，要进行无尘和灭菌处理。
"The two standards are basically the same for equipment and raw materials. The main difference is that medical masks require a high level of hardware, that they must be used in at least 100,000 clean workshops, and that the workshop standards for civilian masks are not low and should be dust- and sterilization-free
”于国宏说。
"said Yu Guohong.
10万级洁净车间。
100000 level clean workshop.
图片来源：新浪对转产企业而言，担心投入的成本打水漂，也希望能尽快获得市场准入，一般都会选择生产民用口罩，即按照GB/T 32610-2016 《日常防护型口罩技术规范》来生产，于国宏也不例外。
Source: Sina for conversion enterprises, worried about the cost of inputs, but also hope to get market access as soon as possible, will generally choose to produce civilian masks, according to GB / T 32610-2016 "Daily Protective Mask Technical Specification," Yu Guohong is no exception.
“以往民用口罩需要办理生产许可批文，现在当地市场监督管理局又好像说不要，目前到底要还是不要，我也没搞明白。
"I don't understand why the local market watchdog now seems to say no, whether or not to use them now," he said.
”于国宏对此很困惑。
Yu Guohong was puzzled.
民用口罩技术标准。
Technical standards for civilian masks.
图片来源：采访对象即便没有批文，于国宏也不太担心口罩的销路问题，眼下他已提前在线上接一些订单。
Source: Even without a license, Mr. Yu is less worried about the sale of masks. He is now on-line with some orders.
“福建泉州80%-90%的转产口罩企业没有拿到批文，我们这边有个上市公司同样如此。
"Fujian Quanzhou 80% -90% of the conversion mask enterprises did not get the license, we have a listed company here is the same.
政府如果征收了，也就是默认你（可以生产）的意思。
By levying it, the government acquiesces in what you mean.
”等设备和原材料到货后，于国宏打算往高一点的生产标准靠拢，取得第三方检验报告。
After the arrival of the equipment and raw materials, Yu intended to move closer to higher production standards and obtain third-party inspection reports.
从长远来看，于国宏还是希望升级为医用口罩标准，因为他担心消费者不认可民用口罩。
In the long run, Mr. Yu still wants to upgrade to a medical mask because he fears consumers won't approve of it.
过去20多天耗费了于国宏大量精力。
Over the past 20 days have consumed a great deal of national energy.
比起大公司在资金动用、人脉资源上的快速协调，小企业大多举步维艰，免不了讨论投入成本。
Compared with large companies in the use of funds, the rapid coordination of human resources, most small enterprises are difficult, inevitably discussed input costs.
“设备50多万，车间整改30-50万，原料备了100多万元。
"More than half a million equipment, workshop renovation 300,000-500,000, raw materials have been prepared more than 1 million yuan.
目前已经投入了200万。
Two million have been invested so far.
看样子，还要再备一些200万左右的原料。
It looks as if some two million more raw materials will be on hand.
”粗略计算后，出于双保险考虑，于国宏又继续埋头寻找熔喷布资源。
"After the rough calculation, out of consideration for double insurance, Yu Guohong continued to bury his head in the search for melting spray resources.
而顺利的话，距离他的口罩到达消费者手里，最少还要10天。
And if it goes well, at least 10 days before his mask reaches the consumer.
（应受访者要求，“于国宏”为化名）未经授权 禁止转载。
(At the request of the interviewee, "Yu Guohong" is an alias), unauthorized reprinting is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
转产口罩有多难：福建商人投200万，30天过去了还没能开工。
How difficult it is to turn over masks: Fujian businessmen put in two million, 30 days later has not been able to start.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "转产口罩有多难：福建商人投200万，30天过去了还没能开工";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "周旋在寻找设备、采购原料以及申报批文之中，至今未转产出口罩。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; never converted a mask while searching for equipment, procuring raw materials, or declaring approval.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
