凌晨里的ICU：活着意味着一切。
ICU in the wee hours: To be alive means everything.
何雾。
What fog?
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
护士们为患者调整气管插管，他们用一次性手套为导管做了个支架，并写上祝福的话语。
The nurses adjusted the trachea cannula for the patient, using disposable gloves to make a support for the catheter and writing words of blessing.
摄影： 鲁巷记者：何雾“ 冰冷的房间，温情的夜晚。
Photo: Lu Lane reporter: He fog "cold room, warm night.
”在咪达唑仑（一种镇静剂）的持续作用下，这位73岁的新冠肺炎危重症患者已昏迷数日——她的血氧饱和度一度低至60%，黏液充斥着她的肺部。
Under the continuing influence of midazolam, a sedative, the 73-year-old has been in a coma for days - her blood oxygen saturation has been as low as 60 per cent and mucus has filled her lungs.
每4个小时，护士们会对她进行一次镇静评分，用轻拍和呼唤名字的方式来测试她的反应。
Every four hours, nurses rate her calmly and test her responses by tapping and calling her name.
在她最危险的时候，重症医学科主任范学朋为她接上了全院唯一一台ECMO（人工肺）。
In her most dangerous moments, Fan Xuepung, director of intensive care, hooked up the only ECMO in the hospital.
这台数百万元造价的设备体外接管了患者的肺部，通过静脉向患者的脏器运送氧气，并泄出二氧化碳。
The multimillion-dollar device took over the patient's lungs, delivered oxygen to the patient's organs through a vein and released carbon dioxide.
这是武汉市第一医院3楼ICU负压房内的景象。
This is the scene of ICU negative pressure room on 3rd floor of Wuhan First Hospital.
它危险重重，被层层包裹。
It was dangerously wrapped up in layers.
进入这里的患者，致死率高达67%。
The fatality rate among those entering was 67%.
范学朋穿过一楼空荡荡的大厅后，通过扶梯抵达3楼ICU门外。
Fan Xuepong walked through the empty lobby on the first floor and reached the third floor outside the ICU by escalator.
发放物资的护士们早已备好防护设备，他必须小心翼翼，严格按照流程穿戴它们，避免任何部位暴露在高浓度病毒中。
Nurses who dispense supplies already have protective equipment in place and must be careful to wear them in strict accordance with procedures to avoid exposing any part of the body to high levels of the virus.
整个过程通常需要消耗30分钟。
The whole process usually takes 30 minutes.
以护士们在每个人前胸、后背上写下他们的名字，范学朋的称呼是“BOSS 范”。
The nurses wrote down their names on each man's chest and back. Fan called him "BOSS Fan."
护士们相互写上名字，以便辨认。
The nurses wrote their names to each other for identification.
摄影：鲁巷他推开蓝色大门，便是另一个世界。
Photo: Lu Lane He opened the blue door, is another world.
在这间20平方米的ICU房间内，患者被机器和导管包围。
Inside the 20-square-meter ICU room, the patient is surrounded by machines and catheters.
从鼻腔进入的气管插管深入她的体内23公分，胃管则深入100公分，直抵肠道。
The tracheal intubation from the nasal cavity penetrated 23 centimetres into her body, and the stomach tube penetrated 100 centimetres into the intestine.
这一切，她一无所知。
She knew nothing of all this.
她虽仍身处险境，但病况已有好转。
She is still in danger, but her condition has improved.
为了增加她的身体活性，迫使她陷入昏迷的镇静剂已减至40毫克/小时。
The sedative that forced her into a coma has been reduced to 40 mg / h to increase her physical activity.
例行寻房时，范学朋拍了拍患者的臂膀，呼唤着她的名字，又凑近她，翻开对方的眼睑。
During the routine search, Fan Xuepeng patted the patient's arm, called her name, and leaned close to her, opening the other side's eyelids.
患者没有反应。
The patient did not respond.
凌晨3点，范学朋正在针对患者的病情交代工作。
At 3 am, Fan Xuepeng is talking about the patient's illness.
摄影：鲁巷护士们开始为患者翻身。
Photo: Nurses in Lu Lane began to roll over the patient.
这通常是他们交班后的第一项工作。
This is usually their first job after the shift.
为了避免长期卧床所引起的褥疮，护士们用枕头改变患者的体位，使她的身体侧往不同的方向。
To avoid bedsores caused by long-term bed rest, nurses use pillows to change the patient's position so that her body moves in different directions.
患者身无一物，以便导管插入。
The patient has nothing so that the catheter can be inserted.
她像一艘船那样停滞下来，寂静，沉重。
She stagnated like a boat, silent and heavy.
为了“保留患者的尊严”，翻身的时候，护士们用蓝色毛毯遮住她的私密处——这是ICU病房里的惯例。
To "preserve the dignity of the patient," nurses covered her privacy with blue blankets, a custom in the ICU ward.
另一个惯例关乎时间的力量。
Another convention concerns the power of time.
ICU负压房被数盏灯光照亮，除了蓝、白，再无他色。
ICU negative pressure room was illuminated by several lights, except blue, white, no other color.
监测设备和导管是冷的，取血针是冷的，只有病榻上昏迷的患者是热的。
The monitoring device and catheter are cold, the blood needle is cold, and only the insensible person in the bed is hot.
这两间负压病房没有窗户，门总是紧闭。
The two negative pressure wards have no windows and the doors are always closed.
对于危重症患者来说，外面的时间没有意义。
For critically ill patients, outside time makes no sense.
护士们说，待到患者生命特征完全平稳、恢复神智后，他们会在夜里尽量减少对他们的打扰，只留一盏床头橘黄色的小灯，“以便让他们知道日夜。
The nurses said they would try to minimize disturbance at night until their lives were completely calm and sane, leaving only a small orange light at the end of the bed to let them know about the day and night.
”翻身这样的体力活需要四个护士协作。
Such manual work as turning over requires the collaboration of four nurses.
防护服里的人们早已被汗水湿透。
People in protective clothing were already wet with sweat.
房内只有仪器的运转声，但他们交谈时，还是要贴近彼此。
There was only the movement of the instrument in the room, but when they talked, they had to stay close to each other.
就在护士们为患者翻身时，她的右脚轻轻颤动，随后她慢慢睁开了眼。
As the nurses rolled over the patient, her right foot quivered slightly, and she slowly opened her eyes.
护士急匆匆叫来了正在门外电脑上查看病历的范学朋。
The nurse hurriedly called Fan Xuepeng, who was checking his medical record on the computer outside the door.
他又凑近看着她，他们四目相对。
He looked at her again, their eyes fixed on each other.
范学朋明白，这位73岁的患者病情正逐步平稳。
Fan understood that the 73-year-old patient was gradually stabilizing.
而她的病友——隔壁负压病房里57岁的患者，情况也正在好转，新冠肺炎导致的缺氧使她总是无意识地睁眼，护士们便用湿纱布搭住她的双目。
Her sick friend, a 57-year-old patient in the negative-pressure ward next door, is also getting better. The lack of oxygen in her new crown pneumonia has left her unconscious, and nurses have put wet gauze over her eyes.
护士们正在操作复杂的监测设备。
The nurses are operating complex monitoring equipment.
摄影：鲁巷这位从医十多年的重症医学科主任说，“活着意味着一切。
Photography: Lu Lane, the director of intensive care for more than a decade, said, "To live means everything.
”他必须细致缜密，并且快速地来做这道生死判断题。
He had to be meticulous and quick in his judgment of life and death.
现在，人们对于新冠病毒的认知仍然有限。
Knowledge of the new crown virus is still limited.
范学朋说，新冠病毒的可怕之处，是没有特效药。
Fan said the horror of the new crown virus was that there was no specific drug.
“大部分人要靠自愈。
"Most people will heal by themselves.
”其中氧疗、营养补给和抗菌最为关键。
Oxygen therapy, nutritional supplements and antimicrobial agents are the most critical.
SARS疫情后，人们的共识是不要大剂量使用激素。
After the SARS outbreak, the consensus was not to use hormones in large doses.
“而这一次的共识是，不要所有人都用激素。
"The consensus this time around is not for everyone to use hormones.
”他见证了武汉疫情从开始到爆发，再到如今“床等人”的整个过程。
He witnessed the whole process from the start of the epidemic in Wuhan to its outbreak and now to "beds and other people.
2019年12月末“不明原因肺炎”爆发后，作为业务领头人之一，范学朋带领着同事们从本院辗转多地，参与定点收治患者的武汉市第五医院、雷神山医院救治工作。
After the outbreak of "unknown pneumonia" in late December 2019, Fan Xuebon, one of the business leaders, led his colleagues from the hospital to take part in the treatment of patients in Wuhan's Fifth Hospital, Lei Shenshan Hospital.
随后，他又回到这里，参与搭建第一医院新冠肺炎患者收治病区。
Later, he returned here to help build the hospital's new crown pneumonia patients admission area.
这个身处疫区中心的医院，很早便建立了规范的发热门诊。
The hospital in the center of the epidemic area set up a standardized fever clinic very early.
疫情之初的1月5日，一医院将散落在各个科室疑似病例集中管理，并让前去诊治的医护们穿上了防护服。
On January 5 at the start of the outbreak, a hospital managed the spread of suspected cases in various departments and put protective clothing on the doctors and nurses who came to treat them.
就在1月10日，范学朋也在临床发现多个病例并没有华南海鲜市场接触史，他提醒同事们，要注意聚集形态发病病例。
As recently as January 10, Fan Xuepeng was clinically aware of a number of cases with no history of exposure to the South China seafood market.
这些措施在很大程度上减少了一医院医护人员们感染的风险。
These measures have significantly reduced the risk of infection among hospital staff.
直到现在，在范学朋所在的重症医学科80多名医护人员队伍中，仅有3名人员感染，且都是轻症。
Until now, only three of the more than 80 staff in Fan's intensive care unit have been infected, all of them mild.
现在，他们都已被治愈并归队。
Now they have all been healed and returned to the army.
范学朋正在观察患者的病情。
Fan Xuepong is observing the patient's illness.
摄影：鲁巷现在，已经不是他最劳累的时候。
Photography: Lu Lane is not the most exhausting time for him.
1月24日除夕，范学朋领着8个医生和20多名护士来到武汉市第五医院时，一夜便收治了60名患者。
On January 24, Fan Xuepung arrived at Wuhan Fifth Hospital with eight doctors and more than 20 nurses and treated 60 patients overnight.
他们连续工作了24个小时，出舱时已几近虚脱。
They worked 24 hours in a row and nearly collapsed when they left the cabin.
他通常会在上午9点进入隔离病区，中午出舱，下午参加会诊疗会议，处理管理上的工作。
He usually enters the quarantine area at 9 a.m., leaves the cabin at noon, attends meetings in the afternoon, and handles management work.
病人症状有变，他还要时刻待命入舱，索性在医院对面仍在营业的酒店开了一间房，在最短的时间里赶赴病房。
When the patient's symptoms changed, he had to stay on standby and simply opened a room in the open hotel opposite the hospital. He rushed to the hospital room in the shortest possible time.
这本不是他的夜班。
It wasn't his night shift.
他仍然选择深夜巡房，以便目睹“夜里真实的情景”，查看患者病情，并与下属们在一起。
He still chose to patrol the house late at night in order to see "the reality of the night," to check on the patient's condition and to be with his subordinates.
他觉得，武汉现在一线的护士比医生更稀缺，“了解你的战友，理解他们的辛苦。
Wuhan, he felt, had fewer nurses on the front line than doctors. "Know your comrades-in-arms and understand their travails.
”他很早便把儿子送回了湖北黄冈老家。
He returned his son early to his hometown of Huanggang, Hubei Province.
儿子已经14岁了，父子俩每天会通视频电话，聊聊这一天的生活。
My son is 14 years old, and my father and son talk on the phone every day about the day.
范学朋说，疫情发生后，纵然穿着防护措施，医护们还是会害怕。
After the outbreak, doctors were afraid to wear protective measures, Fan said.
“自己倒下是其次，家人倒下才是致命的。
"He who falls is second, and his family that falls is mortal.
”为了避免风险，大部分的护士也选择在医院暂住。
To avoid risk, most nurses also chose to stay in hospitals.
院方将他们安置在腾空的三人间病房里。
The hospital housed them in an empty three-room ward.
护士程诗雨也将20个月大的儿子送去了老家蔡甸区，丈夫则留守在武昌的家中。
Nurse Cheng Shiyu also sent her 20-month-old son to her hometown of Cai Den, leaving her husband at his home in Wuchang.
他们通常也会在晚上7点拨通视频电话。
They also usually dial the video at 7pm.
夫妻俩常常沉默无言，看着屏幕里的儿子吃饭，玩耍。
The couple would sit still and watch their sons on the screen eat and play.
她第一次跟儿子分开这么久。
She parted from her son for the first time.
刚刚分离的那几天——比如大年三十的那天晚上，程诗雨刚刚看见母亲抱着她的儿子出现在视频里，眼泪便忍不住地流了下来。
On the days just separated, such as the evening of New Year's Eve, Cheng had just seen her mother appear in the video with her son in her arms, and tears poured down her eyes.
护士们必须时刻监测危重症患者们的体征变化。
Nurses must constantly monitor changes in signs in critically ill patients.
摄影：鲁巷一个多月过去，母子俩也都习惯了这样的见面方式。
Photography: Lu Lane more than a month passed, mother and son are used to such a way of meeting.
父母给外孙看她穿着防护服的照片：“看，这是妈妈。
Her parents showed her a picture of her wearing protective clothing. "Look, this is Mommy
”儿子便形成了这样的认知，每次在电视里看着抗疫前线穿着防护服的人们，他便会指着屏幕喊：“妈妈。
The son developed the idea that every time he watched people wearing protective clothing on the front line of the epidemic on television, he would point to the screen and shout, "Mom.
”程诗雨和丈夫相识5年。
Cheng and her husband met for five years.
他们会在儿子睡觉后继续聊一会儿。
They would talk for a while after their son went to bed.
女主人会在这个时候指使丈夫去做家务。
The hostess will instruct her husband to do the housework at this time.
以前每逢于此，他时常会试图反抗。
Once upon a time here, he would try to resist.
现在，他总会爽快地答应她。
Now he always promised her cheerfully.
他们也数月未见，程诗雨说，疫情也深刻地改变了他们。
They also haven't seen one for months, says Cheng, who says the outbreak has also profoundly changed them.
护士们通常会在凌晨1点半到达病区。
Nurses usually arrive at the sick area at 1: 30 am.
为患者翻身的工作结束后，他们还需要给患者抽血、在泵里续药，或者为其做气压治疗，以阻止患者因长期卧床而导致的静脉血栓。
After turning the patient over, they also need to take blood, pump drugs, or do barometric therapy to stop the venous thrombosis that results from a prolonged stay in bed.
他们还将持续地检测患者的生命体征。
They will also be continuously tested for vital signs.
一般而言，体温和血糖等常规监测的周期从1到4小时不等。
In general, the periodicity of routine monitoring, such as body temperature and blood sugar, ranges from one to four hours.
对于危重症患者来说，血氧饱和度等重要指标则需要时时检测。
For critically ill patients, important indicators such as blood oxygen saturation need to be constantly monitored.
这意味着护士们需要长久盯住数值。
That means nurses need to keep an eye on the numbers.
他们记录患者们体征所发生的一切变化，以便通知医生判断。
They recorded all the changes that had taken place in the signs of the patients in order to inform the doctors.
现在，两名躺在负压ICU房内的患者，体征已逐步平稳，医护们也将迎来最难熬的时光。
Now, two patients in the negative pressure ICU room, signs have gradually stabilized, medical personnel will also usher in the most difficult time.
程诗雨说，忙碌的时候，他们感受不到防护服内部的沉闷和身体的疲乏。
'When they're busy, they don't feel the boredom and physical fatigue inside, 'says Mr. Cheng.
“稍微轻松下来后，各种痛苦便随之而来。
"When you relax a little, all kinds of pain follow.
”他们的衣服早已湿透，在防护服里会闻到身子发出的馊味。
Their clothes were soaked to the skin, and she could smell her head in them.
长时间的压迫式佩戴口罩，带子会像刀子一样割在耳朵上。
Wear a mask for long periods of time, and the tape will be cut like a knife in your ear.
当他们停下走动和体力劳动时，会感到衣物贴身的冷。
When they stop to walk and do manual work, they feel the cloths close to the cold.
凌晨5点，他们普遍感到饥饿和口渴，伴随而来的是胃部疼痛。
At 5 a.m., they experienced widespread hunger and thirst, accompanied by stomach pain.
但这些感受，他们不能说出来。
But these feelings, they can not say.
体感的痛苦，会像“传染病”一样传递给在场的其他人。
The pain of feeling is passed on to others like an "infectious disease."
范学朋没有表露痛苦。
Fan Xuepeng showed no pain.
这一夜的工作快要结束了，他又坐回了办公桌前。
As the night drew to a close, he sat back at his desk.
时间已近6点，早班的张医生推开了病区的大门。
It was nearly six o'clock and Dr. Zhang, the morning shift, opened the door of the sick area.
他们先后来到两位患者的病床前，范学朋给她详细交代了接下来4个小时里的注意细节。
When they arrived at the beds of the two patients, Fan told her the details of their attention for the next four hours.
倒数第二段 范学朋的摄影作品，被摆在病房外面。
The penultimate paragraph of Fan Xuepeng's photographic work was placed outside the ward.
摄影：鲁巷他随后退出了病房。
Photo: Lu Lane then quitted the ward.
他曾经在交流学习时拍摄过国外的风景，便把照片挂在科室的走廊上。
He used to take pictures of foreign countries while exchanging lessons and hung them in the hallways of his department.
这些来自波士顿、荷兰等地的风景照被他嵌入红色相框内。
The scenery from Boston, Holland and other places was embedded in his red frame.
他穿着防护服路过这些风景时，会抬头看看这些生机勃勃的自然事物。
As he passed through the landscape in protective clothing, he looked up at the vibrant nature.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
凌晨里的ICU：活着意味着一切。
ICU in the wee hours: To be alive means everything.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "凌晨里的ICU：活着意味着一切";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Living means all & quot;
var msg_desc = "冰冷的房间，温情的夜晚。
var msg _ desc = & quot; cold room, warm night.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
