直击武汉：红会掌控物资待发，协和另获捐赠应急。
WUHAN: Red Cross will control the material to be issued, Concorde received another donation emergency.
刘以秦 信娜。
Liu Yicheng Na.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
武汉市已将所有捐赠物资集中统一调配，这有助于物尽其用，但配送效率亟须提升。
Wuhan city has centralized all the donated materials to make the best use of the materials, but the efficiency of distribution urgently needs to be improved.
这几日陆续有社会捐赠物资送到武汉协和医院，但仅有一线医护人员能穿上防护服，很多医用物资仍然紧缺文 |《财经》特派记者刘以秦信娜 发自武汉编辑 | 谢丽容面对武汉不断蔓延的新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情，来自外界的大批捐赠物资近日陆续紧急送往武汉。
In recent days, donations of supplies have arrived at Wuhan Concord Hospital, but only front-line medical workers have been able to wear protective clothing. Many medical supplies are still in short supply.
但从武汉相关医疗机构曝光的情况看，很多急需的医用防护物资并没有及时发放，多个消息源称，大批捐赠物资被湖北省和武汉市红十字会所集中掌控。
However, according to reports from Wuhan-related medical institutions, many urgently needed medical protective materials were not distributed in time, and several sources said that the Red Cross Society in Hubei and Wuhan city controlled large quantities of donated materials.
1月31日，多个消息源称，武汉国际博览中心（下称“武汉国博”）堆放了大量红十字会的物资，但无法得到及时配送，个别医疗机构前往领取物资时受到刁难。
On January 31, several sources reported that Wuhan International Expo Center (Wuhan National Expo) stacked a lot of Red Cross materials, but could not be delivered in time, and some medical institutions encountered difficulties in getting supplies.
当晚8点，《财经》记者抵达武汉后直接来到武汉汉阳区白沙洲大桥附近、靠近长江边上的武汉国博A馆，夜色笼罩中的国博中心看到什么人，显得比较安静。
At 8: 00 pm, Caijing reporter arrived in Wuhan and went directly to Wuhan Guobo A Pavilion near the Peshazhu Bridge in Hanyang district of Wuhan, near the Yangtze River.
《财经》记者没有遇到明显的阻拦，走进近万平方米的A馆，看到里面堆放着大量物资等待运送，其时相关物资运送工作已在进行中。
"Caijing" reporter did not encounter obvious obstruction, walked into the nearly 10,000 square meters A Pavilion, saw the pile of goods waiting for delivery, when the relevant material delivery is already under way.
《财经》记者看到，现场物资包括成箱的医用口罩、消毒液、手套等，还有各类成箱包装的药物，包括感冒颗粒、止咳糖浆等，以及各类生活物资，包括食品、日用品等。
"Caijing" reporters saw that the scene materials include boxes of medical masks, disinfectant, gloves, and a variety of packaging drugs, including cold particles, cough syrup, as well as a variety of materials, including food, daily necessities.
一位在现场的红十字会志愿者告诉《财经》记者，救援物资目前的流转流程是：社会捐赠物资集中运送到这里，由现场的仓储管理团队统计成表格，将物资信息发送至疫情指挥部，由指挥部统一按需调配。
A Red Cross volunteer at the scene told Caijing that the current flow of relief materials is as follows: social donations are centralized here, the warehouse management team at the scene statistics into a table, the material information sent to the epidemic command, the command unified on the basis of need.
他同时提到，《财经》记者在现场看到的物资都是最近1-2天送到的，还有大量是当天下午才送到，还未来得及运送出去。
He also noted that "Caijing" reporters at the scene to see the material was recently 1-2 days, a large number of the same afternoon only delivered, not yet out of time.
另一名现场工作人员向《财经》记者表示，他们已经好几天没有休息了，一直在进行物资调配工作。
Another field worker told Caijing that they had not rested for days and had been working on the deployment of supplies.
《财经》记者初步统计发现，现场搬运货物的工作人员大约20名；场馆内简易办公室里，还有4名红十字会的工作人员一直在接打电话，表示没有时间接受媒体采访；场馆外还聚集了十几名等待运货的司机，他们来自中国邮政以及武汉本地的国有企业。
A preliminary tally from Caijing showed that there were about 20 people carrying goods on the spot, four Red Cross workers in the makeshift office had been talking on the phone saying they had no time for interviews with the media, and a dozen drivers waiting to be transported outside the venue from China Post and local state-owned enterprises in Wuhan.
2月1日上午，《财经》记者再次来到武汉国博中心A馆。
February 1 morning, "Caijing" reporters again came to Wuhan Guobao Center A Pavilion.
相比前一天晚上，现场增加了更多的安保人员，除工作人员外，其他人一律不得再进入仓库察看。
More security personnel were present at the site than the previous evening, and all but staff members were denied access to the warehouse.
现场聚集着多家武汉医院的医护人员，他们接到通知来领取物资，多名医护人员告诉《财经》记者，还在等待消息，不能立刻拿到物资。
The scene gathered a number of Wuhan hospitals medical personnel, they were informed to receive supplies, a number of medical staff told Caijing, is still waiting for news, can not immediately get supplies.
一位刚刚交班的红十字会工作人员则告诉《财经》记者，由于各方面领取物资的需求量太大，国博中心库存的医疗物资也已经告急。
A Red Cross worker who had just handed over told Caijing that because of the high demand for all kinds of materials, the National Expo Center stock of medical supplies has also been in urgent need.
截止2月1日11点55分，中国各地新型冠状病毒感染肺炎确诊病例11823人，疑似病例17988人，死亡人数259人，治愈人数249人。
As of February 1 at 11: 55 pm, there were 11,823 confirmed cases of coronavirus infection with pneumonia, 17,988 suspected cases, 259 deaths and 249 cures.
其中，湖北仍然是重灾区，武汉则中重中之重。
Among them, Hubei is still a serious disaster area, Wuhan is the most important.
一线医院目前均处于物资紧缺状态，武汉市的医疗物资配送由政府和红十字会统一调配，物资能否得到及时快速配送，处于疫情一线的武汉，医疗物资供应情况究竟如何？僧多粥少，防疫物资全线告急Play“我们是市7院的护士，来领物资。
First-line hospitals are in short supply at present. The distribution of medical supplies in Wuhan is coordinated by the government and the Red Cross, and whether supplies can be delivered quickly and in time.
”两名护士在1月31日晚上9点左右赶到国博，她们告诉《财经》记者，是收到了红十字会的通知，让她们来领取物资。
The two nurses arrived at Guobao around 9 p.m. on January 31 and told Caijing they had received a call from the Red Cross to collect their supplies.
工作人员一直在问，“介绍信在哪？”其中一名护士急忙翻出手机里保存的文件照片，并催促工作人员，“能不能多分一点给我们。
The clerk kept asking, "Where is the letter of introduction?" One of the nurses rushed out a picture of the document in her cell phone and urged the clerk, "Could you give us more points?
”得到的回应是，能分到的物资并不多。
The response was that not much material was available.
2月1日上午，越来越多的医护人员赶到国博现场，他们都是接到了红十字会的电话通知，请他们过来领取物资，现场一位湖北省中医院的医护人员告诉《财经》记者，他们来了好几个人，只允许一位医护人员进入仓库，也不清楚具体能拿到多少物资。
On the morning of Feb. 1, more and more medical workers arrived at the Expo site, where they were called by the Red Cross to collect supplies. A medical worker from Hubei Chinese Hospital told Caijing that several people had arrived and only one medical worker was allowed into the warehouse.
目前医院的防护装备已经告急，“最多还能支撑1-2天。
The hospital's protective gear is in a hurry, "and will last up to a day or two."
”武汉龙阳医院的书记张和平也来到国博现场，他提到过去一段时间，他们收到了来自卫健委提供的物资中，很多都不符合医疗标准，“很多都是防尘服而不是防护服，口罩大部分是普通口罩而不是N95。
Zhang Heping, secretary of Wuhan Longyang Hospital, who also went to the Expo site, mentioned that many of the supplies they had received from the self-defense health committee over the past period did not meet medical standards, "many of them dustproof rather than protective clothing, and the masks were mostly ordinary masks rather than N95.
”他今天接到领导通知来领取物资，到达现场后，被告知没有物资可以领取。
He received a call today from his leader to collect supplies and was told on arrival that there were no supplies to collect.
对于物资缺口问题，《财经》记者询问了一位红十字会物资调配信息部的志愿者，他表示，“疫情时期，所有医疗物资的使用量是之前的20倍，比如协和医院，普通时期一天口罩消耗量在1000-2000只，现在一天需要4万只，这种情况下，物资再多也不够用。
When asked by Caijing about the shortfall, Caijing asked a volunteer in the Red Cross's Materials Deployment Information Department that "in times of epidemic, all medical supplies are used 20 times as much as before, such as Concorde Hospital, which consumes 1,000-2,000 face masks a day in normal times and 40,000 a day now.
”“我们从除夕开始就没有休息过，大量的志愿者都参与进来，没日没夜的干活，我们也很着急，可是物资缺口摆在那里，大家都没办法。
"We haven't had a rest since New Year's Eve, and a lot of volunteers are involved in working day and night, and we're in a great hurry, but the gap is there and no one can do anything about it.
”1月25日，该志愿者接到来自韩国一家企业的电话，称有500万只KF96口罩想捐赠给武汉，他一直在跟进这条捐赠信息，3天后，对方发来信息表示，韩国有关部门禁止这批物资出口。
"On January 25, the volunteer received a telephone call from a South Korean company saying five million KF96 masks wanted to be donated to Wuhan.
“目前所有的口罩厂都已经被政府接管了，但现在的情况是全国人民都在抢口罩，哪里能保证有那么多口罩呢？”这位志愿者说。
"All the mask factories have been taken over by the government, but now that the whole country is looting masks, where is the guarantee that there will be so many masks," the volunteer said.
物流受限，民间捐赠走不通了1月23日武汉封城，1月27日武汉市严禁私家机动车出行。
Limited logistics, non-governmental donations can not go through the city on January 23, Wuhan, January 27, Wuhan City ban on private motor vehicles travel.
在当地人看来，这一举措能够抑制疫情扩散，但物资运送却成了大问题。
The move is seen by locals as a way to contain the spread of the epidemic, but the delivery of supplies has become a major problem.
李一是一名武汉人，自疫情开始之后，他就自发组织了一个四人的物资运送小队，他们共筹集了20万元捐款，包括8万只口罩，近1万套防护服等。
Li is a Wuhan native. Since the outbreak began, he has spontaneously organized a four-person material transportation team, which has raised 200,000 yuan in donations, including 80,000 masks and nearly 10,000 suits of protective clothing.
他认识不少一线的医生护士，拉了几个物资对接的微信群，先询问医护人员有哪些物资需求，然后去采购，送到医院。
He knew a number of front-line doctors and nurses, pulled a few material docking micro-groups, first asked medical staff what the material needs, then go to purchase, sent to the hospital.
武汉某定点医院的医生告诉《财经》记者，由于大量捐赠物资并不符合医疗规范，医护人员都会在接受捐赠前，提前说明需要的物资型号、数量，来保证效率，避免浪费。
Doctors at a designated hospital in Wuhan told Caijing that because large amounts of donated materials do not meet medical standards, medical staff will specify the type and quantity of materials they need in advance before accepting donations to ensure efficiency and avoid waste.
该医生同时提到，医院和医生都在自发的对外发布求助信息，“多一个求助渠道，就多一分希望。
The doctor also noted that hospitals and doctors are spontaneously posting help messages, "one more recourse, one more hope."
”但这样来的民间捐助物资已经很难直接送到医院。
But it has become difficult for such donations to reach hospitals directly.
李一的团队采购的最后一批物资于27日送达，他表示，之后就再也运不进来了，“如果是拉着医疗物资的货车，会被政府拦下来，运给红十字会，再由他们统一调配。
"If it was a lorry carrying medical supplies, it would be stopped by the government, transported to the Red Cross and unified by them," he said.
”他筹集到的一批医疗物资，包括2万套防护服，运送到武汉时，被政府人员拦下，称要送到红十字会，他试图追问物资流向，但并未得到任何回复。
"A consignment of medical supplies, including 20,000 protective clothing, was stopped by government agents when he arrived in Wuhan and told to be taken to the Red Cross.
他捐赠的最后一批物资，包括4万只口罩，2000套防护服，在微信群里通知各医院来领取，一次来了近40家医院，最后每家医院能分到的物资很少。
His last donation, consisting of 40,000 masks and 2,000 suits, was sent to hospitals for collection through a microphone group. Nearly 40 hospitals arrived at the same time, each receiving very little supplies.
对于武汉政府和红十字会的举措，不少人表示不满也不理解，“你直接能立刻送过去我们都认可，但是物资去了哪？医院已经火烧眉毛了，哪怕物资不符合标准，也总比什么都没有强。
Wuhan government and the Red Cross initiative, many people expressed dissatisfaction and do not understand, "you can immediately send to us to accept, but where the goods have gone? The hospital has burned eyebrows, even if the material is not up to standard, is better than nothing.
”1月30日，湖北省红十字会公布的捐赠信息显示，目前已经配送6万只N95口罩至省疾控中心，3000只N95口罩给协和医院，3万只口罩给荣军医院，1.6万只N95口罩给武汉仁爱医院，1.6万只N95口罩给武汉天佑医院。
On January 30, information released by the Red Cross Society of Hubei Province showed that 60,000 N95 masks had been distributed to provincial CDC, 3,000 N95 masks had been given to Concorde Hospital, 30,000 masks had been given to the Invalids Hospital, 16,000 N95 masks had been given to Wuhan Yan Oi Hospital and 16,000 N95 masks had been given to Wuhan Tianyou Hospital.
这也是目前湖北省红十字会披露的第一份物资发放信息，共计17条，总计金额862.46万元，截止1月31日，湖北省红十字会共计收到捐赠物资、款项金额总计4.46亿元。
As of January 31, the Red Cross Society of Hubei Province had received a total of 446 million yuan in donations of materials and materials.
前述志愿者称，大量的工作人员都在前线派送物资，信息披露环节会滞后于实际的工作情况，“我们的首要工作是救灾抢人命。
According to the aforementioned volunteers, a large number of staff are sending supplies to the front line, information disclosure will lag behind the actual work, "our first task is to save lives.
”对于为何组织民间组织和个人定向捐赠给物资给医院，该志愿者称，现在是疫情传播期，应尽量减少人员流动，另外如果不能统一配送，会出现物资分配不均的现象，并且现在不符合标准的物资太多，“医疗物资就是医生手里的枪，如果不合格，怎么上战场？”但问题是，“枪”不能及时有效送到医护人员手中，他们又如何上战场？混水摸鱼，集中管控物资利弊感染患者和疑似病例数量还在不断上升，武汉本地已经出现病床供不应求，医生防护装备紧缺问题已经迫在眉睫，当务之急就是尽可能的解决物资难题。
The volunteers said it was time for the epidemic to spread and that mobility should be minimized. If distribution was not centralized, there would be uneven distribution of supplies, and there were still too many sub-standard supplies.
但在大范围的物资紧张和物资流转过程中，冒领物资、诈骗物资的情况已经出现。
But in a wide range of material constraints and the flow of goods, counterfeit goods, fraud has emerged.
湖北省中医药的一名医护人员提到，他们此前去卫健委领取分配物资，但被告知已经领走了，不能重复领取，他们调出领取人姓名，发现并不是省中医的工作人员。
A medical worker in Hubei Province mentioned that they had gone to the health committee to collect the distribution but were told that they had taken the supplies and could not collect them again. They called out the names of the recipients and found that they were not provincial Chinese medicine practitioners.
另一家定点医院的医生也提到，有人冒用他们医院的名称去社会上募集物资。
Doctors at another designated hospital also mentioned that people had fraudulently used the name of their hospital to collect supplies from society.
多名参与物资捐赠配送的人员告诉《财经》记者，冒领物资再坐地起价的情况已经出现，一些地方口罩已经卖到25元一只。
Several people involved in the donation and distribution of materials told Caijing that fake goods have been used to start prices, and some local masks have been sold for 25 yuan a year.
1月31日，武汉市委书记马国强对外表示：“我们强调所有捐赠物资一定要通过红十字会，目的就是要让捐赠者捐赠的物资、资金的使用能够及时准确的登记在案。
On January 31, Wuhan Municipal Party Secretary Ma Guoqiang said: "We stress that all donations must go through the Red Cross, so that the use of materials and funds donated by donors can be registered in a timely and accurate manner.
”针对这种情况，由政府统一管理，能够有效解决物资按需分配，但组织民间组织和个人定向捐赠的行为，并不符合《公益事业捐赠法》的有关规定。
This situation, which is managed by the government as a whole, can effectively solve the distribution of goods according to need, but the organization of targeted donations by non-governmental organizations and individuals does not meet the relevant provisions of the Law on Donations to Public Welfare Enterprises.
《公益事业捐赠法》规定，公益性社会团队（基金会、慈善组织等）和公益性非盈利的事业单位（公益性教育机构、科研机构、医疗卫生机构等）都可以接受捐赠。
The Law on Donations to Public Welfare Enterprises stipulates that public welfare social teams (foundations, charitable organizations, etc.) and public non-profit institutions (public welfare educational institutions, scientific research institutions, medical and health institutions, etc.) may accept donations.
浙江十阳律师事务所律师姜旭日告诉《财经》记者，民间捐赠行为属于民事法律行为，适用民事法律规定，只要捐赠方和受赠方就捐赠内容达成协议，捐赠物资合法，其他机构和部门无权干扰。
Jiang Xurui, a lawyer at Zhejiang Shiyang Law Firm, told Caijing that private giving is a civil law act and is governed by civil law as long as donors and grantees agree on the donation and the donation is legal and other agencies and departments do not have the right to interfere.
湖北省中医院的医护人员表示，他们也认可政府统一配送物资，但前提是有足够的人力物力资源来组织调配，目前他们接受的所有物资，都是由医护人员去各个地方领取，包括红十字会的仓库，卫健委的仓库甚至机场。
Medical staff at Hubei Chinese Hospital say they also agree with the government's unified distribution of materials, but only if they have sufficient human and material resources to organize and distribute. All the materials they receive are collected by medical staff in various places, including the Red Cross warehouse, the health committee's warehouse and even the airport.
“如果政府把物资都送到医院，就不会出现冒领的情况。
"If the government delivers all the supplies to the hospital, there will be no false claims.
”1月31日，湖北省召开新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控工作新闻发布会，武汉市政府党组成员李强在会上提到，红十字会的捐赠是满足需求的重要渠道，医院物资有多种原因，消耗量大于供应量，但捐赠的物资和急需的没有很好的对应。
On January 31, 2007, Li Qiang, a member of the Wuhan government party group, held a press conference on the prevention and control of pneumonia related to a new coronavirus infection in Hubei Province.
同时，工作中也存在差距，周转不够快，调拨不够及时。
At the same time, there are gaps in the work, turnover is not fast enough, allocation is not timely.
前述红十字会志愿者也提到，他一天能接到20-30个电话，询问为何物资不够，“现在物资的需求量急剧增长，全国人民都在盯着红十字会，监督是好事，但是希望大家不要拿放大镜看我们，也不要过度炒作。
Red Cross volunteers also mentioned that he was able to get 20 to 30 calls a day asking why the supplies were scarce. "Now the demand for goods is soaring, people are staring at the Red Cross, and supervision is good, but I hope you don't look at us with magnifying glasses or over-hyped.
”2月1日上午11点，这名志愿者交班离开武汉国博中心，他收到来自医院的物资求助信息，想自己搬运一部分物资先送过去，但是他并没有相应的物资配送手续。
The volunteer left Wuhan National Expo Center at 11 a.m. on Feb. 1 and received help from the hospital, trying to carry some of the supplies himself, but he did not have the proper material distribution procedures.
暂解燃眉，协和仍需医用物资Play2020年2月1日上午10点多，武汉协和医院内，工作人员正在搬运新的物资，一车羽绒服。
Temporary release of eyebrow, Concorde still need medical supplies PlayFebruary 1, 2020 more than 10 a.m., Wuhan Concorde Hospital, staff are carrying new supplies, a load of down clothes.
现场捐赠方负责人对《财经》记者说，天气凉，希望医生能暖和点。
The head of the donor community told Caijing that it was cold and hoped the doctor would be warmer.
这车羽绒服将交由医院总务处，由各科室申请后，分发。
The down jacket will be handed over to the general services of the hospital, applied by all sections and distributed.
这位工作人员装备齐全，身穿白色防护服，戴着防护眼镜、口罩和手套。
The staff was well equipped and wore white protective clothing, protective glasses, masks and gloves.
她提醒在现场《财经》记者，最好穿上防护服，医院毕竟是疫情高危区。
She reminded Caijing reporters at the scene that it is best to wear protective clothing, the hospital is a high-risk area of the epidemic.
另一边，几名寻常打扮的医院工作人员上来帮忙，穿着常见的白大褂，戴着口罩，一位医生的口罩还有呼吸阀。
On the other side, several well-dressed hospital staff came up to help, wearing their usual white coats, masks, a doctor's mask and a respirator valve.
他告诉《财经》记者，这是自己从家里带着来的，能更保险一点。
He told Caijing that he had brought it from home and was safer.
至于防护服和眼镜，在场帮忙搬运和清点物资的医护人员身上均未见到。
As for protective clothing and glasses, none of the medical personnel present to assist in the handling and inventory of materials were seen.
“防护服多珍贵啊！”一位协和医院医护人员说，“只有一线人员才能穿。
"How precious protective clothing is!" said a Concorde hospital paramedic. "Only frontline personnel can wear them.
”因为每天都要换，不可能一件防护服用好几天，所以非一线的医护人员只能穿白大褂。
Because they had to change every day and it was impossible to take one for several days, non-first-line medical staff had to wear white coats.
作为后勤人员，他每天可以获得一个N95口罩和一付医用手套。
As a logistician, he gets a N95 mask and a pair of medical gloves every day.
防护服到底有多珍贵。
How valuable are protective clothing.
一位负责人说：“节省节省再节省，压缩压缩再压缩。
"Save and save, compress and compress again," said one person in charge.
”为了节省，现在医院不允许医护人员来回进出病房，于是出现了有的医生要憋尿好几个小时，不能喝水，不能上厕所。
Hospitals now don't allow doctors and nurses to walk in and out of the wards to save money, so doctors can't pee for hours, drink water or use the restroom.
进入医院疫情高危区以后，医生就尽量不出来，因为每出来一次，就要重新更换防护服。
After entering the hospital high-risk area, the doctor will try not to come out, because every time out, need to replace the protective clothing.
在武汉协和医院食堂一侧，《财经》记者见到有工作人员在清点少量个人及企业捐赠。
At the side of the Wuhan Huihe hospital canteen, Caijing reporter saw a small number of individual and corporate donations being counted.
两名工作人员推车搬运两箱口罩，一箱1000个。
Two staff carts carry two boxes of masks, one each for 1,000.
其中一位拍着箱子说，这一箱口罩一天都不够。
One of them patted the box and said it wouldn't be enough for a day.
“一个医生每4个小时要换一次口罩，一天的用量至少是5000个”。
"A doctor needs to change a mask every four hours. The daily dosage is at least 5,000."
2月1日，武汉协和医院内，医护及工作人员正在搬运物资是何道理，红会拒收捐赠衣物武汉协和医院的工作人员告诉《财经》记者，这几日陆续有社会捐赠物资到达医院。
On Feb. 1, the Red Cross Society refused to accept donations of clothing. Staff at Wuhan Association and Hospital told Caijing that donations of social goods had arrived at the hospital in recent days.
正在帮忙搬运的医院保安人员说，昨天也有物资过来。
Hospital security personnel helping with the removal said supplies arrived yesterday as well.
“上午11点的时候，来了两箱口罩和防护眼镜的医疗物资”。
"Two boxes of masks and medical supplies for protective glasses arrived at 11 a.m.".
“每天到的物资不一样，有些会提前联系医院配送的时间，个人捐赠一般会直接送过来”，上述工作人员说。
"Things arrive differently from day to day, with some contacting hospitals in advance, and individual donations are usually delivered directly," the staff said.
不过从专业角度来看，部分来自个人捐赠的医用物资并不符合标准。
However, from a professional point of view, some of the medical supplies donated by individuals do not meet the standards.
根据协和医院官网发布的信息，防护服需要符合 GB19082-2009《医用一次性防护服技术要求》标准。
According to information published on the Concorde Hospital website, protective clothing needs to meet the GB 19082-2009 Technical Requirements for Medical Disposable Protective Clothing.
并提示二级以上医用防护服，一般衣服上有红蓝条纹。
And the suggestion above two levels medical protective clothing, the general clothing has the red and blue stripe.
有关人士告诉《财经》记者，如果捐赠物资符合这个标准，对一线医护人员会更有用。
Caijing told Caijing that it would be more useful for front-line medical staff if donations met the criteria.
上述负责人说，防护服一定要是医用的。
The person in charge said that the protective clothing must be medical.
一些捐赠物资可能一线人员用不了，但行政和后勤人员可以用。
Some of the donations may not be used by front-line personnel, but administrative and logistics personnel may.
这车羽绒服还没卸完，另一辆装着秋葵和黄瓜的卡车已开进医院。
The duvet had not yet been unloaded, and another truck, loaded with okra and cucumbers, had entered the hospital.
从三亚到武汉，王木和老公一路开车用了30多个小时送达，他们说，一路上并没有遇到太多困难，“我们有相应的证件，各个路口就会放行。
From Sanya to Wuhan, where Wang and his husband drove for more than 30 hours, they said there were no too many difficulties along the way.
不过到服务站需要检查体温，一路上七八次吧”。
But you need to check your temperature at the service station seven or eight times along the way.
《财经》记者在武汉协和医院看到，通行证核发单位为“海南省交通运输厅”，名称为“新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控应急物资及人员运输车辆通行证”。
"Caijing" reporters at Wuhan Hsianghe Hospital saw that the unit issuing the laissez-passer is "Hainan Provincial Department of Transport and Communications," the name of the "new coronavirus infection of pneumonia emergency supplies and personnel transport vehicles pass.
2月1日，《财经》记者在武汉协和医院的两个小时内，先后看到5批物资车陆续到达，除医用消毒水等，还有蔬菜、牛奶等生活用品。
On Feb. 1, Caijing reporter saw five batches of goods vehicles arrive within two hours of Wuhan Concorde Hospital, including medical disinfectant, vegetables, milk and other daily necessities.
“还得保证病人和医护人员的吃饭问题”，上述负责人说。
"We also need to ensure that patients and medical staff are fed," the official said.
这期间，《财经》记者尚未发现经由红十字会转运而来的物资。
During that time, Caijing reporter has not found any transit materials through the Red Cross.
对于是否委托红十字会捐赠，一位现场捐赠者予以否认。
One on-site donor denied whether to entrust the Red Cross with donations.
“我看他们现在刷屏了，”她说，之前她所在的公司曾与武汉及湖北红十字会联系捐赠羽绒服的事，但对方不感兴趣，后来他们直接与武汉协和医院联系，得知医院非常需要，便直接通过邮政配送过来。
"I think they're painting now," she said. Her company had contacted Wuhan and Hubei Red Cross about donating feather suits, but they weren't interested.
对于湖北及武汉红十字会为何拒收这些羽绒服，截止发稿未得到相关方面的回应。
For Hubei and Wuhan Red Cross Society refused to accept these down jacket, the deadline has not received a response from the relevant parties.
《财经》特派记者将继续从武汉一线发来相关报道，敬请关注。
Caijing special reporter will continue to send relevant reports from Wuhan, please pay attention to.
本文图片由刘以秦、信娜拍摄本文由树木计划作者【财经杂志】创作，独家发布在今日头条，未经授权，不得转载新型冠状病毒疫情系列报道▷ 点击图片查看责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
This article, written by Liu Yicheng and Sean, was written by Caijing and Caijing. This article is an original article by Caijing magazine and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
直击武汉：红会掌控物资待发，协和另获捐赠应急。
WUHAN: Red Cross will control the material to be issued, Concorde received another donation emergency.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "直击武汉：红会掌控物资待发，协和另获捐赠应急";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "武汉市已将所有捐赠物资集中统一调配，这有助于物尽其用，但配送效率亟须提升，很多医院的物资已告急";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Wuhan has centralized all its donations to make the best use of its assets, but the efficiency of distribution needs to be improved, and many hospitals have AT & quot;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
