起底韩国新天地教会：疫情“帮凶”。
South Korea Xintiandi Church from the bottom: the epidemic "helper."
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
The following article comes from 国际湃。
The following article comes from abroad.
Author 英特纳雄耐尔湃。
Author Intenasionel surged.
国际湃。
International roar.
提供国际政治事件与趋势的专业分析，剖析世界多元格局下的中国立场，释放国际新闻“高冷”背后的热忱和无限可能。
To provide professional analysis of international political events and trends, analyze China's position under the world's pluralistic situation, and release the enthusiasm and limitless possibilities behind the "cold" international news.
。
.
澎湃新闻记者 刘栋新天地教会眼下正处于韩国新冠肺炎疫情风暴的最中心。
Liudong Xintiandi Church, a Peng Pai journalist, is at the center of a storm of pneumonia in South Korea.
3月2日，新天地“教主”——88岁的韩国人李万熙在全国媒体面前双膝跪地，两次磕头谢罪。
On March 2, 88-year-old Lee Wanxi, the godfather of Xintiandi, knelt on his knees before the national media and kowtowed twice.
“我代表新天地教会，向人民表示诚挚的歉意。
"On behalf of Xintiandi Church, I sincerely apologize to the people.
尽管不是故意的，但仍有许多人被感染。
Although not intentional, many people are still infected.
我们尽了最大的努力，但无法阻止一切。
We tried our best, but we couldn't stop everything.
我寻求人民的宽恕。
I seek forgiveness from the people.
我也寻求政府的宽恕。
I also seek forgiveness from the government.
”这是新天地教会引爆韩国疫情两周以来，教会的最高领导人首次公开发声，也将新天地教会再一次带回到人们的视野里。
This is the first time in two weeks that the church has exploded in South Korea that the church's top leader has spoken out publicly, bringing the Church of Xintiandi back into the limelight again.
尽管李万熙表现出极大的歉意，但他同时否认了外界对新天地教会的指责——不认为教会的一系列行为加重了韩国的疫情。
Despite Mr Lee's apologies, he also denied accusations that a series of church actions had contributed to the outbreak.
这显然不能让民众满意。
This clearly does not satisfy the population.
在现场民众大声的抗议和无数记者的追问下，发布会仅持续了20分钟便草草收场。
The meeting lasted only 20 minutes, after loud protests by the crowd and questioning by countless journalists.
如果以2月18日韩国第31号病例——一名新天地大邱分会信徒确诊感染新冠病毒作为分水岭，韩国的疫情防控战可以分为两个截然不同的故事。
South Korea's war on prevention and control can be divided into two distinct stories if the New Crown Virus is diagnosed as a watershed by a member of the Taegu branch of Xintiandi on February 18.
在此之前，韩国是全球最早监测到输入性病例的国家之一。
South Korea was one of the first countries in the world to detect imported cases.
在严密防守下，一度出现4天零病例增长的局面。
Under tight defense, there was a 4-day increase in the number of cases.
然而这一切在2月18日后改变，随着第31号病例的出现，整个疫情急转直下。
However, all of this changed after February 18, and with the emergence of Case No. 31, the epidemic has turned sharply downward.
短短两周内，韩国已成为中国之外疫情最严重的国家。
In just two weeks, South Korea has become the worst affected country outside China.
截至3月4日，韩国累计报告5328例确诊病例，其中大邱占了4006例。
As of March 4, a cumulative total of 5,328 cases have been reported in South Korea, of which Daegu accounted for 4006.
而与新天地教会有关的病例是最大的感染群体，至少有2418例，远远超过其他人群。
Cases related to the Church of Xintiandi were the largest group, with at least 2,418 cases, far surpassing the rest of the population.
目前，陷入“苦战”的韩国疫情仍没有放缓的迹象，感染人数还在持续增加中。
There is no sign of a slowdown in the "bitter war" in South Korea, where the number of infections continues to rise.
始发于新天地教会大邱分会的“超级传播事件”是此次韩国疫情的转折点。
The "Super Propagation Incident," which originated in Taegu branch of Xintiandi Church, was the turning point of the epidemic.
本是疫情受害者的新天地教会，为何会成为韩国舆论批评的焦点？为什么政府始终称其不配合调查？又是什么原因，让一些专家担心新天地可能会成为疫情进一步扩大的“帮凶”？新天地教会疫情的暴发，并非是一起简单的公共卫生事件。
Why did the Xintiandi Church, originally a victim of the outbreak, become the focus of public-opinion criticism in South Korea? Why did the government always say it did not cooperate? And what caused some experts to fear that Xintiandi might become an "accomplice" to the spread of the epidemic?
而要回答上述问题，需要更深层地走进新天地教会的内部。
To answer these questions, we need to go deeper into the inner church of Xintiandi.
为此，澎湃新闻（www.thepaper.cn）独家专访了前新天地教会信徒，并采访了宗教专家、韩国文化专家和法律专家，结合韩国政府和新天地教会的相关公开信息，还原梳理出整个疫情暴发过程中的关键细节，找寻大邱疫情背后更复杂的真相。
To this end, Peng Pai News (www.thepper.cn) conducted exclusive interviews with former followers of Xintiandi Church, as well as religious experts, Korean cultural experts and legal experts, to sort out the key details of the outbreak and find out the more complex facts behind the Daegu outbreak, based on public information from the Korean government and Xintiandi Church.
李万熙在记者会上磕头谢罪超级传播事件2014年初，一位高中同学介绍当时正在读研的张帆参加了一个自称是研习《圣经》的学习班。
Earlier in 2014, a high school student introduced Zhang Fan, then a graduate student, to a class that called itself a Bible study program.
“第一次试听课后，印象还不错。
"After the first audition, the impression was good.
”张帆向澎湃新闻回忆起六年前的那一幕。
Zhang Fan recalled to the surging news the scene six years earlier.
“当时正好寒假有空，我想《圣经》是了解西方文明‘两希源头’（希腊文明和希伯来文明）的重要书籍，能够有一个免费机会多了解一些也挺好，于是我就继续去听课。
"I thought the Bible was an important book about the 'Two Sources of Western Civilization' (Greek and Hebrew), and it was nice to have a free chance to learn more about it, so I continued to attend.
”两个多月后，学习班的负责人认为张帆可以“深造”，鼓励他参加下一阶段称作“福音房”的学习。
After more than two months, the head of the course thought Zhang could "further his education" and encouraged him to take the next stage of his studies, called "Gospel Room.
也是在这个时候，他开始慢慢了解到这个学习班的背后，其实是一个叫做新天地教会的组织。
It was also at this time that he began to realize that behind the course was actually an organization called Xintiandi Church.
结束“福音房”的学习后，张帆又被要求继续进入“新天地神学院”学习，整个课程分为初级、中级和高级，每周要上两到三次课，时间长达一年多。
After finishing his evangelical studies, Zhang Fan was asked to continue his studies at Xintiandi Theological Seminary, which is divided into elementary, intermediate and advanced courses lasting two to three times a week for more than a year.
在课堂上，他被不断灌输混合了曲解部分《圣经》内容、一些极端释经学理论和末世理论的“新天地神学”。
In class, he is indoctrinated with a "new world theology" that mixes misinterpretations of parts of the Bible, extreme expository theories, and end-of-life theories.
张帆如今回想起来，整套课程其实非常“严密”。
In retrospect, the whole course is actually "rigorous."
“如果你按照他们的套路去学，绝对会被带进去，而这一切都是为了最后（让人）接受新天地教主李万熙是那个最高权威。
"If you follow their routine, you'll definitely be brought in, and it's all for the last time to accept Lee Wan-hee as the supreme authority.
”“神学院”毕业后，经过严格的笔试和面试，张帆才终于有资格正式入教，被韩国新天地教会总部登记在册，成为一名正式的信徒。
Only after graduating from the seminary, after a rigorous written examination and an interview, did Zhang finally qualify for full membership, being registered as a full-fledged believer at the headquarters of the Church of the New World in Korea.
根据新天地教会官方网站的信息，该组织由李万熙在1984年创立，全称为新天地耶稣教证据帐幕圣殿教会。
According to the official website of Xintiandi Church, the organization was founded by Lee Wanxi in 1984 and is fully known as the Temple of Jesus evidence in Xintiandi.
根据在此次疫情后该组织首次披露的信息，目前其在韩国国内有大约21.2万名正式成员。
It now has about 212,000 full-time members in South Korea, according to information first disclosed by the group after the outbreak.
由于教义问题和对李万熙本人的崇拜，新天地教会诞生后不久就被韩国主流教会普遍视作“异端”或“邪教”。
Because of doctrinal problems and worship of Lee Wanxi himself, Xintiandi Church was soon after the birth of the mainstream Church in South Korea as "heresy" or "cult."
长期以来，该组织也一直因为骗人入伙、诈骗信徒钱财等各种丑闻在韩国国内声名狼藉。
The group has long been notorious in South Korea for scandals such as swindling people into joining the fold and swindling believers for money.
今年1月中旬，来自全球各地分部的数千名新天地核心成员聚集在韩国首都首尔附近的果川新天地总部，参加该组织每年最重要的活动之一——“国际大会”。
In mid-January, thousands of core members from branches around the world gathered at the headquarters of Kokawa Shintiandi, near Seoul, to attend one of the group's most important events of the year, the International Congress.
值得注意的是，韩国中央防疫对策本部副本部长权埈郁3月3日在记者会上表示，2名韩国新天地信徒在今年1月曾访问武汉，其中1人在2月下旬确诊感染了新冠病毒。
It is important to note that in January this year, two followers of Xintiandi visited Wuhan, and one of them was diagnosed with the new crown virus in late February.
不过目前尚难判断这名患者是否与引发新天地教会的集体感染有关。
However, it is difficult to determine whether the patient was involved in the group infection that triggered the Xintiandi church.
目前看来，想要清楚地确定大邱疫情最初传播渠道和“零号病人”的难度已相当大，但是在这段时间内发生的一些事件却能给我们回溯疫情暴发提供重要的线索。
So far, it has been difficult to clearly identify the initial transmission channels of the Daegu outbreak and "patient zero," but events during this period have provided important clues for us to trace back to the outbreak.
据韩国疾控部门调查显示，在上述1月中旬的新天地“国际大会”结束后不久，一些人数不详的新天地成员在1月31日至2月2日期间，来到了李万熙的故乡庆尚北道清道郡，参加了在当地大南医院举行的李万熙92岁兄长的葬礼。
An unknown number of members of Xintiandi came to Ching Tao county in Gyeongshan North Province, Li's hometown, between January 31 and February 2 to attend the funeral of Lee's 92-year-old brother at the local Greater South Hospital, according to a South Korean CDC survey.
其中包括47名来自大邱的新天地成员。
This includes 47 members of Xintiandi from Daegu.
2月中旬，大南医院封闭式管理的精神病房住院患者和医疗人员开始出现发热症状。
In mid-February, patients and medical staff in the closed psychiatric ward of the Greater South Hospital began to develop febrile symptoms.
2月18日，院内2人确诊。
On 18 February, two people in the compound were diagnosed.
此后该医院的确诊病例开始出现爆发式增长，目前大南医院是仅次于大邱的韩国第二大疫区。
Since then, there has been an explosive increase in confirmed cases at the hospital, which is now the second most affected area in Korea after Daegu.
与此同时，距离清道郡不远处的大邱市，一场“疫情风暴”正在悄悄地酝酿。
Meanwhile, an "epidemic storm" is brewing in Daegu, a city not far from Ching Tao County.
韩国疾控部门后来确诊为第31号病例的一名62岁大邱妇女，最早于2月7日在当地一家小型医院就诊，抱怨喉咙疼痛。
A 62-year-old Daegu woman, who was later confirmed as Case No. 31 by the Korea CDC, was treated as early as 7 February at a local small hospital to complain of throat pain.
2月9日，她参加了大邱新天地教会千人出席的礼拜活动。
On 9 February, she attended a church service attended by thousands of people in Taegu Xintiandi.
第二天，她开始持续发烧。
The next day, she began to have a fever.
医生让她住院治疗。
The doctor admitted her to hospital.
2月16日，她溜出医院再次来到教会参加礼拜活动。
On 16 February, she slipped out of the hospital and again attended church services.
卫生官员表示，医生曾至少两次建议这名妇女转到更大的医院接受新冠病毒检测，但遭到她的拒绝。
Health officials said doctors had advised the woman at least twice to be referred to a larger hospital for a new crown virus test, but she refused.
她坚称自己最近几个月没有去过中国，也没有和任何感染者接触过。
She insists she has not been to China in recent months and has had no contact with anyone infected.
目前，韩国疾控部门仍在努力搞清楚她是如何感染的。
South Korea's Department of Disease Control is still trying to figure out how she got the infection.
2月18日，第31号病例终获确诊，然而病毒早已在大邱新天地教会内部传播开来。
Case No. 31 was finally confirmed on 18 February, but the virus was already spreading within the Church of Taegu Xintiandi.
该教会位于大邱市区一座9层楼独栋大厦内，是新天地在韩国最活跃的分支机构之一，据称有近1万名信徒。
The church, located in a nine-story single building in downtown Daegu, is one of Xintiandi's most active branches in South Korea, reportedly with nearly 10,000 followers.
在冬季密闭的空间内，上千人在几个小时内一起唱歌、交谈、近距离接触，这一切都构成了病毒传播的完美条件。
In winter's enclosed spaces, thousands of people sing together, talk and get in close contact for hours, all of which make for perfect conditions for the spread of the virus.
此后几天内，不断有新天地信徒被确诊。
In the days that followed, Xintiandi believers continued to be diagnosed.
截至3月3日，在大邱地区4328名接受检测的新天地信徒中，高达62%的结果呈阳性，远远高于其他人群的比例。
As at 3 March, 62 per cent of the 4,328 Xintiandi people tested in Daegu district had tested positive, far higher than the rest of the population.
大邱市疫情井喷式暴发也自此开始，病毒在大邱的大街小巷散播开来，看似严密的防疫网在瞬间即被攻破。
Since the outbreak of the Daegu epidemic began, the virus spread through the streets of Daegu, and the seemingly strict epidemic prevention network was broken in an instant.
随之而来的，是韩国疫情整体防控形势的急转直下。
This was followed by a sharp decline in the overall situation of control of the epidemic in South Korea.
韩国街头戴口罩的行人拒绝配合政府调查在确认了第31号病例与大邱新天地教会的联系后，韩国当局迅速找到了教会，希望能够协助提供教会成员名单，以追踪数千名与会者和他们的密切接触者，防止疫情进一步扩大。
South Korean street mask-wearing pedestrians refused to cooperate with government investigations. After confirming the link between Case No. 31 and Taegu Xintiandi Church, the Korean authorities quickly approached the church, hoping to be able to assist in providing a list of church members to track down thousands of participants and their close contacts to prevent the outbreak from spreading further.
然而新天地教会足足花了一周的时间，才“不情愿”地向当局提供了一份并不完整的成员名单。
But it took the church a week to "reluctantly" provide the authorities with an incomplete list of members.
据韩国疾控部门披露，最初在接受调查时，第31号病例也是拒不配合，不愿意透露自己的行踪。
At the time of the investigation, Case No. 31 was also refusing to disclose his whereabouts, according to South Korea's CDC.
直到有关部门调查了其手机使用记录，才发现她曾在2月初去过清道郡。
It was not until authorities investigated her cell phone usage record that she visited Ching Tao County in early February.
然而该患者自称，她没有去过大南医院或参加过葬礼，但在清道时曾使用过当地的公共浴室。
The patient claimed, however, that she had not been to the Grand South Hospital or attended a funeral, but that she had used a local public bathroom while clearing the road.
更令人感到不可理解的是，在31号病例确诊后，大邱新天地教会向成员发出了消息，让他们继续各项活动，还告诉成员，如果遇到政府官员的询问，他们应当否认自己的信徒身份或去过教会参加礼拜。
It is even more incomprehensible that, following the diagnosis of case No. 31, Taegu Xintiandi Church sent messages to its members to continue their activities and told them that if questioned by government officials, they should deny their affiliation or attend church services.
多位接近新天地教会的人士向澎湃新闻证实了上述信息的真实性。
Many people close to Xintiandi Church confirmed the truth of the above information to the roaring news.
“这样的行为对熟悉新天地内部制度的人来说一点也不奇怪。
"Such behaviour is not surprising to anyone familiar with the inner workings of Xintiandi.
” 张帆告诉澎湃新闻，“如果我是这名患病的信徒，我的第一反应会是先向我的上级汇报，听从教会的指导和安排，而绝对不会听任何人的建议，包括父母、官员。
"If I were the sick disciple, my first reaction would be to report to my superiors, listen to the church's instructions and arrangements, and never listen to anyone, including parents or officials," Zhang told the roar news.
因为最重要的是先保护教会的安全。
Because the most important thing is to protect the security of the church first.
”新天地教会后来发表声明称，上述个别人士发出的信息并不代表其官方政策，并且已对发出信息的人进行了纪律处分。
The church later issued a statement saying the message from the individual did not represent its official policy and that disciplinary action had been taken against the person who sent the message.
韩国庆熙大学法学博士万延娇认为，新天地教会在疫情初期的一系列反常表现是疫情在大邱快速传播乃至失控的重要“帮凶”。
According to Dr. Wan Yanjiao of Kyeongxi University, a series of abnormal manifestations of Xintiandi Church in the early stage of the epidemic are important "accomplices" in the rapid spread and even out of control of the disease in Daegu.
“新天地起初根本没有认识到疫情的严重性，也没有意识到会对信徒和公众带来的危害，一直拒不配合政府。
"Xintiandi at first did not realize the severity of the epidemic, nor the harm to believers and the public, and has refused to cooperate with the government.
直到2月23日，大邱疫情已经非常严重，文在寅总统宣布将警戒提升到最高级别后，政府有了强制要求新天地配合的依据，他们才勉强交出材料。
Until February 23, when the Daegu epidemic was so severe that President Wenin Yin announced that the alert would be raised to the highest level, the government had a basis to force Xintiandi to cooperate before they reluctantly handed over the materials.
”她说道。
'she said.
2月24日，京畿道行政长官李在明在接受韩国TBS电视台采访时表示，新天地教会最初并没有像承诺的那样与韩国政府合作。
In an interview on February 24 with South Korean television channel TBS, Gyeonggi province chief executive Lee Kyonggi province said Xintiandi Church had not initially cooperated with the South Korean government as promised.
根据他们提供的信息，该组织在京畿道239个分支机构中只有100个地址是真实的。
According to the information they provided, only 100 of the 239 branches of the organization in Kyonggi Province were genuine.
对此，张帆解释道，新天地将自身的保密和安全看得高过一切。
In this regard, Zhang Fan explained that Xintiandi put its own confidentiality and security above all else.
他曾亲身经历教会的一些高层手把手指导他们，如何清空手机里所有和新天地相关的信息，如何编造各种理由欺骗政府官员乃至身边的亲人。
He has personally instructed senior church officials on how to empty their phones of all information about the new world and fabricate excuses to deceive government officials and even loved ones around him.
“他们认为自己是有着独一真理的教会，不能被别人牵着走，坚持自己的一套。
"They think they are a church with a unique truth and cannot be led by others to stick to their own way.
同时，他们不断地让信徒撒谎，教我们如何欺骗最亲近的人包括伴侣、子女，不让他们知道自己是新天地信徒的身份。
At the same time, they constantly make believers lie and teach us how to deceive our closest people, including our partners and children, so that they do not know that they are believers in the new world.
”张帆说道。
"said Zhang Fan.
疫情发生后，李万熙在给信徒的一封内部信中表示，“这种疾病的暴发是魔鬼造成的，为的是阻止新天地的迅速增长”。
In an internal letter to the faithful after the outbreak, Lee said: "The outbreak was caused by the devil to stop the rapid growth of the new world."
他本人也一直拒绝接受卫生部门的测试，直到2月29日才在记者会前做了检测。
He himself refused to be tested by the health authorities until Feb. 29, before the press conference.
随着疫情不断升级，2月26日，李万熙不得不在新天地官方网站上发表声明说，该组织一直“积极配合韩国政府，防止病毒进一步传播” ，并已在政府保护私人信息的前提下交出了全体教众的名单。
As the epidemic escalated, on Feb. 26, Lee said in a statement on Xintiandi's official website that the group had been "actively cooperating with the South Korean government to prevent further spread of the virus" and had handed over its full membership list with the government protecting private information.
然而这并没有让政府调查和联系新天地成员的工作变得更顺利。
This did not, however, make it any easier for the government to investigate and contact members of Xintiandi.
据《纽约时报》报道，就在同一天，京畿道政府表示，由于新天地成员通常不接非成员的电话 ，他们不得不要求210名新天地成员打电话给其他33000名成员，询问是否出现相关症状。
On the same day, according to the New York Times, the Gyeonggi government said that because SY members don't usually answer calls from non-members, they have to ask 210 Xintiandi members to call 33,000 other members to ask if they have symptoms.
在大邱，警方部署了600名警察挨家挨户地敲门寻找名单上仍未联系上的成员，要求他们自我隔离，此前这些人不接电话也不回消息。
In Daegu, the police deployed 600 police officers to knock on the door door to door in search of members of the list who had not been contacted and who had not previously answered the phone and received no news.
由于一些教会成员的不配合，警方不得不用追踪手机电话、查看监控录像的方式寻找他们。
Police had to track them down by tracking cell phone calls and checking surveillance videos for lack of cooperation from some church members.
2月28日，韩国大邱市长权泳臻更是表示，政府发现新天地在交出的名单中删除了1762名成员的资料，而被删除的人中有部分已感染了新冠病毒。
On February 28, Kwon Young-jin, mayor of Daegu, said the government had found that the government had removed 1,762 members from the list and that some of those removed had been infected with the new crown virus.
他怒斥新天地此举等同于提交“虚假信息并妨碍政府的工作”，将向警方举报该组织“阻碍政府遏制病毒”。
He denounced the move as tantamount to submitting "false information and hampering the work of the government" and would report the group to the police as "an obstacle to government efforts to contain the virus."
韩国政府认为，新天地的种种作为，干扰了政府为应对疫情所做的努力，从而导致因疫情死亡人数的上升。
The South Korean government believes that Xintiandi's efforts have disrupted the government's efforts to deal with the epidemic, leading to an increase in deaths from the epidemic.
3月1日，首尔市市长朴元淳在社交媒体上直呼，李万熙和新天地教会负责人必须为疫情负责。
On March 1, Seoul Mayor Park Yuanchun blurted out on social media that Lee and Xintiandi church leaders must be held accountable for the outbreak.
首尔市要求新天地组织者提供教徒的全部信息并下令接受检测。
Seoul has asked Sky Organizers to provide full information about believers and order testing.
如果李万熙不采取这些措施，将以“过失杀人”等罪名起诉李万熙等领导层。
If Mr Lee does not take such steps, he will sue the leadership, including Lee Wanxi, for "manslaughter."
次日，新天地匆忙宣布举行记者会。
The next day, Xintiandi announced a press conference hastily.
在会上李万熙上演了本文开头那一幕“致歉”。
At the meeting Lee Wan-hee staged the "apologetic" scene at the beginning of the article.
在韩国华人律师张智华看来，这个发布会完全是新天地在起诉压力下为洗白自己而做出的应对之举。
In the eyes of Zhang Zhihua, a Korean Chinese lawyer, the conference was entirely a response to pressure from Xintiandi to whiten itself.
在记者会上，李万熙话里话外也一直在将责任推给政府。
At the press conference, Lee Wan-hee has been putting the blame on the government in addition to his words.
“韩国宪法保障了新天地的信仰自由，让他们这种组织能够存在。
"The Constitution of South Korea guarantees freedom of worship in Xintiandi and allows such organizations to exist.
那么作为教主是不是应该有更大的责任来做一个正确的判断？如果因为你没有做出正确的判断，很多信徒以及无辜的人们受到了伤害。
So should the godhead have a greater responsibility to make a correct judgment? Many believers, as well as innocent people, are hurt because you don't make the right judgment.
你是否要承担责任呢？”张智华对澎湃新闻分析道。
Are you responsible? "Zhang Zhihua told Peng Pai News."
那么，处于韩国疫情风暴眼的新天地教会，究竟是一个怎样的组织？是什么原因让新天地教会的信徒们如此害怕公开他们的身份？甚至不惜付出生命的代价？新天地总部召开的大会新天地教会是一个怎样的组织“我不相信新天地会向政府完全坦白，因为这会影响到他们的利益和安全，暴露他们的秘密传教行动。
So what kind of organization is Xintiandi Church in the eye of the South Korean epidemic? What makes believers so afraid to reveal their identity? What kind of organization is the Xinjian Church at Xintiandi Headquarters? "I don't believe the new day will be completely open to the government because it will affect their interests and safety and expose their secret missionary actions."
”总部位于香港的新兴宗教关注事工（Concern Group on Newly Emerged Religions）总干事杨子聪对澎湃新闻说道。
Yang Zizong, director-general of the Hong Kong-based Emerging Religions, told the roaring news.
长期关注新天地的杨子聪表示，新天地在处理这次疫情上的反应和他们一贯的态度一致。
Yang Zicong, a longtime focus on Xintiandi, said Xintiandi's response to the outbreak was consistent with their usual attitude.
“根本上来说，由于他们持有一种反社会的思想，极端以自我为中心，不配合是很自然的。
"Fundamentally, because they have an anti-social mentality, it's natural that they are extremely self-centered and do not cooperate.
”在韩国，近几十年来，打着基督教旗号的各种新兴宗教组织层出不穷，而且往往比正规教会更吸引人。
In South Korea, in recent decades, various new religious groups have sprung up under the banner of Christianity, often more appealing than the formal church.
据杨子聪的研究，类似于新天地这样有着“教主”的组织在韩国就有100多个。
According to Yang's research, there are more than 100 "godhead" organizations like Xintiandi in South Korea.
这些组织往往特别强调末世论的悲情以及“教主至上” 的理念。
These groups often place special emphasis on the apotheosis of the apotheosis and the idea of "godliness."
“韩国的民间文化较单一，民族本身有着比较激烈的情感，在从国外引入一些宗教文化时，往往会烙上 ‘韩国特色’，基督教也不例外。
"Korea's folk culture is relatively monolithic, the nation itself has more intense feelings, in the introduction of some religious culture from abroad, often branded with 'Korean characteristics', Christianity is no exception.
发展的时候一些民间宗教如萨满教的印记常会显露出来。
The imprint of some folk religions, such as shamanism, often comes to light during development.
”杨子聪说。
"said Yang Zizong.
这一点在新天地身上体现得很突出。
This is evident in Xintiandi.
按照新天地的教义，李万熙是上帝在人间最后的“先知和应许者”，接受信徒近乎于神的膜拜。
According to the doctrine of Xintiandi, Lee Wanxi is God's last "prophet and Prophet" in the world, accepting the worship of believers near God.
“这种精神操控是很强的，李万熙在教会内部的影响力令人无法想象。
"This kind of spiritual manipulation is very strong and Lee's influence within the church is unthinkable.
相较政府，信徒会选择无条件地服从他的指令。
The believer, in contrast to the government, chooses to obey his commands unconditionally.
”张帆说。
"said Zhang Fan.
李万熙1931年9月出生于庆尚北道清道郡，17岁时寄居在首尔的哥哥家从事建筑业。
Born in Ching Road County, Gyeongshan Province in September 1931, Lee worked in the construction industry at the home of his brother, who lived in Seoul when he was 17.
其间他在韩国国内富有争议的帐幕圣殿教会接受洗礼。
In the meantime, he was baptized in South Korea's controversial Tent House Church.
后来又中途脱离该教会，自称为《圣经》中提到的“神应许的牧者”、耶稣转世再临之主，于1984年创立了新天地教会。
Later he left the church, calling himself the "Promised Shepherd" of the Bible, and the Lord of the Resurrection, and founded the Church of the New World in 1984.
新天地教会有自己的日历，以1984年为元年。
Xintiandi Church has its own calendar to 1984 as the first year.
它举办自己的“奥运会”，体育场里挤满了来自世界各地的信徒。
It held its own "Olympic Games" and the stadium was packed with worshippers from all over the world.
李万熙经常穿着雪白的服装，拿着他标志性的手持折扇，喜欢向崇拜他的人群行军礼。
Often dressed in snow-white and carrying his signature folding fan, Lee enjoyed marching to his admirers.
从一开始，新天地就被韩国主流教会认定为“异端”（与正统基督教神学相违背的宗教信仰派别）。
From the beginning, Xintiandi was recognized as "heresy" (a sect of religious beliefs that contradicts orthodox Christian theology) by the mainstream church in South Korea.
韩国主流教会经过调查后指出，李万熙本身没有接受过任何正规的神学培训，其在帐幕圣殿教会的经历是其神学思想的主要来源。
After investigation, the mainstream Church of Korea pointed out that Lee did not have any formal theological training, his experience in the Temple of the Tent is the main source of his theological thoughts.
他不承认基督教普遍信奉的《圣经》为信仰的最高权威。
He did not recognize the Bible as the supreme authority of faith, which is widely practiced in Christianity.
而自称是直接从上帝得到启示的人，只有自己的言论才是真理。
And those who claim to have received their revelations directly from God are the only ones whose words are the truth.
杨子聪表示，和其他“异端”教会相比，新天地是最隐蔽的一个。
Mr Yang says the new world is one of the most secretive compared to other "heresy" churches.
一位韩国资深宗教界人士告诉澎湃新闻，新天地之前对外完全不公开，因为疫情外界才第一次知道新天地到底有多少人，机构分布在哪里。
A senior South Korean religious figure told Pai Pai News that Xintiandi was completely closed before, because for the first time the outside world knew exactly how many people were in Xintiandi and where the organization was located.
而新天地教会最受主流教会诟病的是其招募信徒的手法。
The mainstream church in Xintiandi is criticized for the way it recruits believers.
上述宗教界人士向澎湃新闻表示，如果要说哪个异端团体最扰乱韩国教会，非新天地莫属。
The religious figures told the roaring news that if any heretic group was the most disruptive to the church in South Korea, it would have to be new.
新天地教会常常让被称为“收割者”的信徒隐藏自己的真实身份，潜入其他教会，向基督徒进行传教，拉他们加入新天地。
The Church of Xintiandi often allows believers, known as "Reapers," to hide their true identities, infiltrate other churches, preach to Christians, and draw them into new lands.
这一点正是新天地教会始终不愿意配合政府当局公开其成员名录的最重要原因。
This is the most important reason why Xintiandi Church has been reluctant to cooperate with the authorities in making its membership list public.
“所有教会都不欢迎新天地的人，如果他们的身份被公开，会带来极为不利的影响。
"All churches do not welcome people from the New World, and it would be very negative if their identities were made public.
”张帆说道。
"said Zhang Fan.
韩国政府也多次在调查中发现，多名患者直到自己确诊后才透露自己是新天地信徒。
South Korea's government has repeatedly found in the investigation, many patients until their own diagnosis before revealing that they are followers of Xintiandi.
其中包括一名在大邱市负责检测新冠病毒的政府公务人员，直到检测结果呈阳性，才承认自己是新天地教会的成员。
This included a government official in Taegu who tested positive for the new crown virus before admitting that he was a member of the Church of Xintiandi.
不过，新天地国际传教部门负责人金信昌（Kim Shin-Chang，音）在接受美国有线电视新闻网（CNN）采访时辩称，因为被视作异端邪教，新天地的信徒遭到歧视，所以许多教会成员才不敢公开自己的身份。
However, Kim Shin-Chang, head of mission at Xintiandi International, argued in an interview with CNN that many members of the church were afraid to reveal their identities because they were considered heretical and believers in Xintiandi were discriminated against.
中山大学国际翻译学院朝鲜语系助理教授黄永远指出，“新天地教会提交的名单真伪性存在问题，且尚未公开很多秘密传教和聚会设施，这对当局的防疫排查都造成了干扰。
Huang Zhenmin, assistant professor of Korean Studies at the School of International Translation at Zhongshan University, said: "Problems with the authenticity of the lists submitted by Xintiandi Church, as well as the fact that many secret missionary and meeting facilities have not been made public, have caused interference in the authorities' quarantine efforts.
不仅如此，虽然新天地教会停止了大型礼拜，但是小规模聚会、在伪装成咖啡馆等其他设施的福音房的传教活动很可能还在不断进行，这都是十分危险的。
Not only that, but small gatherings and missionary activities in evangelical rooms disguised as cafes and other facilities are likely to continue, even as the Church of Xintiandi ceases large-scale worship.
”更重要的是，黄永远表示，任何宗教如果利用宗教权威对信徒进行人身与精神控制，并进而扰乱正常的社会秩序，肯定是有害的。
More importantly, Mr Huang has always said that it is surely harmful for any religion to use religious authority to exert physical and mental control over believers and thereby disrupt normal social order.
但他同时也认为，尽管新天地教会在处理此次疫情中有着明显的过错，但是不能因为它是韩国疫情的震源地，就将所有责任和各种黑锅都趁机扣在其头上。
But he also believes that although Xintiandi Church has a clear fault in dealing with the epidemic, but it should not be because it is the epicentre of the South Korean epidemic, all the blame and all kinds of black pot on its head.
疫情发生后，已有超过50万人在网上向韩国总统办公室提交的请愿书上签名，要求解散新天地教会。
Since the outbreak, more than half a million people have signed a petition online to the South Korean president's office demanding the dissolution of Xintiandi Church.
2017年，在与另一个“异端”教会的接触中，张帆意识到自己所参加的新天地教会可能也“有问题”。
In 2017, in contact with another "heresy" church, Zhang realized that his church in Xintiandi might also be "in trouble."
“后来我自己去网上查了很多信息，发现很多负面的内容，基本上认定这是一个邪教。
"Then I went to the Internet and looked up a lot of information, found a lot of negative content, basically that this is a cult.
经过很长时间的思考后，我决定退出。
After much thought, I decided to pull out.
”张帆说，在离开新天地后，该组织的地区负责人亲自来找他谈话，并派他的高中同学劝他回来。
"After leaving Xintiandi, Zhang said the group's regional director came to talk to him personally and sent his high school classmates to persuade him to come back.
最后碍于朋友的情面，张帆勉强答应。
Finally, in the face of friends, Zhang Fan reluctantly agreed.
然而没多久，由于他发布了一些“有损于教主形象”的资料，新天地很快主动将其除名。
Soon, however, Xintiandi took the initiative to expunge him for publishing material that "tarnished the image of the Godhead."
在张帆看来，李万熙在新闻发布会上道歉的内容很肤浅，也回避了新天地教会的核心问题，这样的表态绝不意味着他会配合政府。
In Zhang's view, Lee's apology at the press conference was superficial and sidestepped the core issues of Xintiandi Church, a statement that in no way suggested that he would cooperate with the government.
“只是因为他不想被起诉，不想坐牢，哪怕是一天也不愿意。
"Just because he doesn't want to be prosecuted and don't want to go to jail, not even for a day.
”“这是一个控制人的 ‘邪教’，如果要配合政府，就要放弃自己的那一套。
"It's a cult controlling people, and if you want to work with the government, you're going to have to give it up.
这是他们绝对不会做的。
This is something they will never do.
”张帆总结道。
"concluded Zhang Fan.
（应受访者要求，张帆为化名）戳这里进入“全国新型冠状病毒感染病例实时地图”↓↓↓本期编辑 周玉华推荐阅读。
At the request of the interviewee, Zhang Fan, an alias, was jabbed here into PPA, PhD, PhD, PhD, PhD, PhD)
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
起底韩国新天地教会：疫情“帮凶”。
South Korea Xintiandi Church from the bottom: the epidemic "helper."
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "起底韩国新天地教会：疫情“帮凶”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; started at Korea's Xintiandi Church: & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "新天地教会眼下正处于韩国新冠肺炎疫情风暴的最中心";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '武汉，不能后退的理由',。
Wuhan, the reason why it was not possible to fall back.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '“湖北疫情依旧严峻，坚决不能放松”',。
"Hubei still has a serious epidemic and resolutely not to relax" & amp; apos; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '上报确诊病例为负数，湖北荆门书记、市长被诫勉',。
AT & amp; # 39; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
