“封城”后，他接到很多艾滋感染者的求助。
After the "closure", he received a lot of help from people infected with AIDS.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
实习生 刘旭 澎湃新闻记者 喻琰断药，对艾滋感染者意味着什么？黄亿告诉澎湃新闻，可能有生命危险。
Intern Liu Xu Peng Pai reporter Yu Yan medicine, what does it mean to AIDS infected people? Huang told the news, may be life-threatening.
艾滋感染者必须每天服药来抑制体内病毒数，“一旦断药，就会病毒反弹、免疫力下降，感染风险大大增加。
People living with HIV must take daily medication to suppress the number of viruses in the body. "Once you stop taking them, the virus rebounds, immunity drops, and the risk of infection increases dramatically.
”武汉“封城”后，他接到了很多艾滋感染者的求助。
Wuhan "closed the city", he received a lot of AIDS infected people to help.
这些感染者因为缺乏通行证，无法到定点医院领取药品，面临断药风险。
These infected persons are at risk of losing their medication by not being able to obtain medicines at the designated hospitals because of lack of permits.
“手机上的消息像爆炸了一样。
"The message on the phone sounded like an explosion.
”黄亿是艾滋病防治公益机构武汉为先社会工作服务中心（以下简称“为先社工”）的发起人。
Mr. Huang is the founder of the Wuhan Social Work Service Center, an AIDS prevention and treatment public welfare organization.
“为什么不向社区或者村委会求助，让他们帮忙拿药呢？”“一些艾滋感染者即使断药，也不想表明自己的身份。
"Why not go to the community or the village council and ask them to help get the meds?" "Some people living with HIV don't want to identify themselves even if they have to stop taking their medicine.
”寄出超过6300瓶药物：仅一家医院登记的艾滋感染者就3000名2月19日，联合国艾滋病规划署和艾滋病公益组织“白桦林全国联盟”在中国性病艾滋病预防针控制中心的支持下，设计和发起了一项关于新冠肺炎下艾滋感染者的调查。
More than 6,300 bottles of medicine were mailed: 3,000 people infected with the AIDS virus were registered in just one hospital. On February 19, UNAIDS and the birch National Alliance, a public-interest group, designed and launched a survey of people living with HIV / AIDS under the new crown pneumonia, with the support of the Birch National Association for AIDS Prevention and Control.
调查显示，近三分之一(32.6%)的艾滋感染者由于“封城”管制，在未来几天内有可能断药；其中近一半艾滋感染者(48.6%)表示，不知道从哪里收集下一次抗逆转录病毒治疗药物。
Nearly a third (32.6 per cent) of people living with HIV are likely to lose their drugs within the next few days as a result of city closures, according to the survey; nearly half of those infected (48.6 per cent) say they do not know where to collect the next antiretroviral treatment.
“白桦林全国联盟”的创始人和负责人白桦2月25日告诉澎湃新闻，平时国家对于艾滋感染者是“属地化管理”，即在哪里建立档案就在哪里定期领药。
Birch Birch, founder and director of the birch National Association, told reporters Tuesday that people infected with the AIDS virus are "managed locally," with regular collection of medicine wherever files are created.
疫情之下，1月26日，中国疾控中心发布了《关于保障异地滞留艾滋病病毒感染者免费抗病毒治疗药品的通知》。
In the face of the epidemic, on January 26, China's CDC issued the Notice on Safeguarding Free Antiviral Therapy for People Living with HIV in Other Places.
通知指出，无法回到原治疗机构的感染者，可以在滞留地临时领取免费抗病毒治疗药物。
The circular states that infected persons who are unable to return to the original treatment facility may receive free antiviral drugs temporarily at their place of detention.
虽然疾控中心等有关部门及时察觉到感染者们担心的问题，但拿药仍十分困难。
Although the CDC and other relevant departments timely aware of the concerns of infected people, but access to drugs is still very difficult.
白桦反映，拿药需要身份证、抗病毒治疗编号以及原治疗地疾控中心提供的“工作联系函”。
Birch revealed that to get the drug requires an identity card, an antiviral treatment number and a "work contact letter" from the former CDC.
但春节加上疫情防控，一些基层的疾控中心电话打不通，一些感染者也不记得自己的治疗编号，“电话打不通，（大家）又出不去，都特别着急。
But the Spring Festival plus disease prevention and control, some grass-roots CDC phone line is not open, some infected people do not remember their treatment number, "the phone can not open, [everyone] can not get out, especially anxious.
而且之前放假时间延长，一些疾控中心和医院还没上班，但患者药已经没了。
And before the vacation time has been extended, some of the CDC and the hospital have not yet come to work, but the patient's medicine is gone.
”因此，疫情期间，“白桦林全国联盟”和“为先社工”等公益组织，都发布了为断药在即或已经断药的病友们邮寄药品的消息。
So during the outbreak, public-interest groups such as the birch National Union and Social Work First have issued messages that send medicine to sick people who are on or have stopped taking their medicine.
在艾滋防治领域耕耘多年的“白桦林全国联盟”建立起了庞大的病友网络，除了给感染者邮寄出之前储备的药物外，他们还在“有存药”与“无存药”的病友之间架起了互助的桥梁。
The birch National Alliance, which has cultivated the AIDS epidemic for years, has built a vast network of sick friends who, in addition to mailing out pre-existing stocks of drugs, have built bridges of mutual help between "saved" and "non-existent" patients.
目前，向“白桦林全国联盟”求助的艾滋感染者超过了一千八百人，他们已为其中六百多人发出了药物。
More than 1,800 people have sought help from the birch National Union, and they have given medicine to more than 600 of them.
“我们平时就会存一些药物来帮助异地断药的患者，但现在求助的人所需要的药量，和之前根本不是一个数量级。
"We save medicines to help patients who have lost their medication in different places, but people who are asking for help now need an order of magnitude less than they used to.
”白桦感叹。
"sighed Birch.
“为先社工”则联系了武汉金银潭医院，在公众号与微博上发布了帮助邮寄抗病毒药物求助信息表，每天最多可为65位感染者邮出药物。
"For the first social workers" contact Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, in the public and Weibo to help post anti-viral drug help table, up to 65 infected people per day.
截至3月2日，“为先社工”为741名感染者邮寄了超过6300瓶药物，但仅金银潭一家医院登记的感染者就有3000人。
As of March 2, more than 6,300 bottles of medicine had been delivered to 741 infected people by the "social workers first," but 3,000 people had been registered at the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital alone.
他们的工作还有很多......不敢向村委会说明情况，步行十几里去快递点取药滞留在湖北荆州的张杰是向“白桦林全国联盟”求助的艾滋感染者之一，今年45岁的他感染艾滋三年多了。
Zhang Jie, who walks more than a dozen miles to express his medicine in Jingzhou, Hubei Province, is one of the people infected with HIV who has sought help from the birch National Association. He has been infected with AIDS for more than three years.
自从确诊后，每天吃药就成了张杰生命中的一部份。
Since the diagnosis, daily medication has become a part of Zhang Jie's life.
一开始他设定了闹钟提醒自己每天吃药，但现在成了习惯，闹钟就不再需要了。
At first he set an alarm clock to remind him to take medicine every day, but now it is a habit and the alarm clock is no longer needed.
张杰感染的事除了父母，其他的亲人朋友还不知道，如果有人询问，他都会说自己吃的是护肝药或者护肝保健品，“如果知道了，可能连饭都不敢跟你一起吃”。
Zhang Jie infected the matter in addition to his parents, other relatives and friends do not know, if asked, he would say that they eat liver care or care products, "if you know, may not even eat with you.
1月21日，在东莞工作的张杰回到荆州过年，原本只打算在家呆六七天。
January 21, working in Dongguan Zhang Jie returned to Jingzhou New Year, originally intended to stay at home for only six or seven days.
但“疫情”和“封城”的消息接踵而至，张杰意识到自己随身携带的药可能不够吃了。
But the "epidemic" and "closure" news followed, Zhang Jie realized that they may not have enough medicine to eat.
随即，张杰联系到了白桦。
Immediately, Zhang Jie contacted birch.
了解状况后，白桦向他寄出了由志愿者捐赠的“替拉依”，三种药物各15片，可以吃15天。
"Knowing the situation, birch sent him a donation of" Tilai, "15 tablets each of the three drugs, which can be eaten for 15 days.
张杰介绍，“替拉依”是艾滋感染者常吃的一种三种药物的药物组合，除此以外还有“替拉奈”、“齐拉依”等组合。
"Tilai" is a combination of three drugs commonly used by people living with AIDS, in addition to "Tilane" and "Zilai," Zhang said.
不同情况的病人，有不同的药物组合吃法。
Patients with different conditions have different combinations of drugs to eat.
这种组合吃药的方法可以大大降低感染者的耐药风险，由于很像用不同风格的酒调制鸡尾酒，因此也被称为“鸡尾酒疗法”。
This combination of medicines greatly reduces the risk of drug resistance in infected people and is known as cocktail therapy, since it is much like mixing cocktails with different styles of alcohol.
虽然张杰平时吃的是“替拉奈”而不是“替拉依”，但在现在这种情况下也没办法，“有总比没有好”。
Although Zhang Jie is usually eating "Tilan Nai" rather than "Tilai", but in this case there is no way, "better than nothing.
在张杰带回家的药还剩两天量时，救急的药物终于到了。
With two days of medicine left in Zhang Jie's home, the emergency medicine finally arrived.
市里禁行，开车出去需要通行证，生活在农村的张杰不敢向村委会说明情况，只好步行十几里路去快递点取药，“在村里只要一个人知道就全知道了，我怕别人用异样的眼光看我。
Zhang Jie, who lives in the countryside, dare not explain the situation to the village committee. He has to walk a dozen miles to the express delivery point to get his medicine.
”与张杰情况类似，另一位感染者吕书，今年26岁，感染艾滋刚满八个月。
Similar to Zhang Jie, another infected person, Lu Shu, 26, has been infected with AIDS for just eight months.
随着小区的全面封锁和武汉交通管制进一步升级，无法拿药的他感到有点心慌。
With the overall closure of the community and Wuhan traffic control further upgrade, unable to get medicine he felt a bit uneasy.
他说，社区的人可以帮忙去拿药，但是他的情况又不好跟社区讲……“为先社工”的负责人黄亿表示，湖北有两万多艾滋感染者，这样的状况并不在少数，人们的偏见让艾滋感染者即使断药也想隐瞒自己的身份。
He said the community can help to get drugs, but his situation is not good to tell the community... "Hubei for social workers" director Huang Yi said, there are more than 20, 000 people infected with AIDS in Hubei, the situation is not unusual, people's prejudice let people infected with AIDS even if the drug also want to conceal their identity.
另一位“为先社工”的工作人员肖超观察到，艾滋感染者的这种“病耻感”在老年人身上格外明显，再加上不熟悉网络，他们断药的可能性更高。
Xiao Chao, another "social worker first," observed that the stigma attached to HIV is particularly pronounced in older people, who are more likely to stop using drugs because they are unfamiliar with the Internet.
最初几个礼拜找“为先社工”求助的大多是较为年轻的艾滋感染者，直到近一个礼拜五十岁以上的感染者才逐渐多了起来。
In the first few weeks, most of the young people who sought help from social workers were infected with AIDS. Only in the last week or so did the number of people over the age of 50 increase.
肖超告诉澎湃记者，很多老年人他们不会用智能手机，不会寻求渠道帮助，不敢找邻居帮忙，都是最近医院主动打电话过去询问，他们才知道志愿者可以帮忙领药。
Xiao told reporters surging that many elderly people do not use smartphones, do not seek help from channels, do not dare to ask neighbors for help.
“一位56岁的感染者为了到医院拿药，甚至连夜走了近10个小时的路……”提起这件事，肖超有些自责，“如果我们早一点发现他可能就不用那么辛苦地走路过来。
"A 56-year-old infected man walked nearly 10 hours overnight to get medicine at the hospital..." Xiao Chao scolded himself. "If we had found out earlier, he might not have walked so hard.
”“听到那个铃声就想把手机砸了”2010年黄易在学生社团参与志愿服务时，接触到了艾滋病防治的相关知识，这份工作带给他的成就感让他选择创建了为先社工，一晃就是九年。
"Hearing that bell meant he wanted to smash his mobile phone." Huang was exposed to AIDS prevention and treatment in 2010 when he volunteered at the Student Union, and the sense of accomplishment it gave him led him to choose to start a social worker for nine years.
“社会对他们的污名化很严重，一旦有人能给他们提供帮助的话，对他们而言就成了唯一的救命稻草。
"Society stigmatizes them so badly that once someone can help them, it's the only thing that can help them.
”黄亿向澎湃新闻介绍，为了更好的保护患者隐私，参与此次志愿服务的都是他们的“核心成员”，线上线下一共22名，每位参与的志愿者都要签署保密协议，确保感染者的隐私不会泄露。
To better protect patients' privacy, Huang told the roaring news that the volunteers were all "core members" -- 22 offline, with each volunteer signing a confidentiality agreement to ensure the privacy of the infected person.
大家分工明确，有的负责统计整理线上求助登记表；有的负责开车寄送药品；有的负责在医院领药……在此次志愿工作中，肖超负责接线答疑、登记信息。
In this volunteer work, Xiao Chao was responsible for answering and registering online help sheets, sending medicines by car, and collecting medicines at the hospital.
前期他每天大约要接70个电话，同时不断的在微信上答疑解惑、安抚情绪，“他们可能从打电话的这一刻起，一天24小时都会缠着你。
He will answer about 70 calls a day in the early stages of life, answering indecipherable, reassuring letters, "They may be nagging you 24 hours a day from the moment they make a call.
”肖超有些无奈，他几乎每天都是在打电话、接电话、回消息中度过。
Xiao Chao was helpless, spending almost every day on the phone, answering the phone, answering the phone and answering the news.
但每次被缠得有些烦时，听到感染者们讲述自己的情况又会让他感到心酸。
But every time he gets annoyed, it makes him feel sad to hear infected people tell their stories.
算上学生时期做志愿者的经历，25岁的肖超在“为先社工”已经服务四年了。
Taking into account his experience as a volunteer as a student, Xiao Chao, 25, has been a social worker for four years.
本身作为性少数人群的他深知社会对这个社群的不接纳，“想为这个社群做一些事情，想通过自己的努力带来一些改变”，肖超有些感慨地说。
Being a sexual minority in his own right, he is aware of the social rejection of this community and "wants to do something for the community and bring about some changes through his own efforts," Xiao said with a sigh.
不过，感染者们焦虑的情绪也影响着肖超，他开始整夜整夜地失眠，没胃口吃饭，甚至害怕听到电话铃声，“听到那个铃声就想把手机砸了”。
However, Xiao Chao was also affected by the anxiety of infected people. He began to suffer sleeplessness all night, had no appetite for food and was even afraid to hear the phone ring.
后来团队请来心理辅导，每个星期都会给志愿者们疏导情绪，肖超也在团队的要求下休息了一天。
Afterwards, the team called for counseling, and every week, Xiao Chao took a day off at the request of the team.
现在的他已经慢慢调整了过来，感到焦虑的时候，就会听听民谣让自己平静。
Now he has slowly adjusted, when anxious, will listen to folk songs to calm themselves.
梦寐以求的通行证除了志愿者的心理情绪，“通行证”也是一个大问题。
In addition to the psychological emotions of volunteers, the coveted pass is also a big problem.
25日下午，送药志愿者的车因没有通行证在汉江一桥被拦下。
On the afternoon of the 25th, the car carrying the drug volunteers was stopped at a bridge in Hanjiang for lack of a permit.
“被质问了近半个小时”，黄亿和志愿者们对此感到有些冤枉。
"Questioned for nearly half an hour," Huang and the volunteers felt a bit unfair.
黄亿告诉澎湃记者，一直以来他们都在试图解决通行证的事情，但社工组织不具备开具通行证的资格，疾控中心和医院也无法为不属于本单位的志愿者们开出通行证。
Huang told reporters that they had been trying to solve the problem, but the social work organization was not qualified to issue permits, and the CDC and the hospital were unable to issue permits for volunteers who did not belong to the unit.
因而，志愿者们一直在用疫控中心和医院开出的“非正式通行证”——一张盖了章的情况说明函。
As a result, volunteers have been using "unofficial passes" -- sealed letters of information -- issued by epidemic control centers and hospitals.
第二天，志愿者们没有再开车，骑自行车将前一天未邮寄的药品送走邮寄了。
The next day, instead of driving, the volunteers rode bicycles to deliver unmailed drugs from the previous day.
正在等药的沈庆，感染艾滋三年了，得知志愿者的车被拦后，他感到无助。
Shen Qing is waiting for the medicine, AIDS infection for three years, learned that the volunteer's car was blocked, he felt helpless.
“在医院领药的志愿者在医院一呆就是8个小时，我看到照片有的穿的防护服还是破的……他们真的很伟大。
"Volunteers who picked up medicine at the hospital stayed in the hospital for eight hours and I saw pictures of people wearing protective clothing or beer... and they were really great.
”对于志愿者送药的事情，沈庆很感动也很感谢，“我从内心不希望志愿者做这件事，我希望相关的部门能够重视并解决这件事，而不是只依赖志愿者冲在前面。
"Shen Qing was very moved and grateful for the volunteers' medicine." I don't want volunteers to do it from the bottom of my heart.
”为了能够尽快拿到药物，沈秦拨打了武汉政务服务网的电话和武汉市长热线。
In order to get the drugs as soon as possible, Shen Qin dialed the Wuhan government affairs service network and Wuhan city governor's hotline.
电话那头，工作人员态度很好，只说已记录下来沈秦的诉求，但依然没告诉他解决方法，沈秦心情复杂。
At the other end of the line, the staff had a good attitude, saying only that they had recorded Shen Qin's appeals, but still did not tell him how to solve them.
武汉江岸区疾控中心一名工作人员告诉澎湃新闻，现在单位的大部分人都参与到了新冠肺炎的相关工作中去，至于艾滋相关的工作，主要是为本地的感染者联系医院，为滞留外地的感染者提供“工作联系函”以帮助他们领取药品等。
Wuhan Jiangan District CDC staff told the roar news that most people are now involved in the work related to the new crown pneumonia, AIDS-related work, mainly for local infected people to contact hospitals, to provide stranded infected people with "work contact letters" to help them get medicine.
如今这种情况，白桦很理解相关部门。
Birch understands the situation now.
白桦听说，在安徽、浙江一些疫情较轻，艾滋感染者人数不多的地方有疾控的人亲自开车送药。
Birch heard that in Anhui, Zhejiang some of the epidemic is relatively light, AIDS infection in places where the number of people with disease control in their own cars to deliver drugs.
但对于更多的地方，白桦认为这种工作方式并不可行，“大家都忙得焦头烂额，工作量已经这么大了，如果他们一个个去送药，几乎是不可能的。
But in more places, birch says, it's not feasible. "People are so busy, so much work, it's almost impossible for them to deliver the medicine one by one.
”不过，“为先社工”的转机来得很快。
But the turnaround for "social workers first" has come quickly.
26号下午黄亿发来微信，他们拿到了通行证。
In the afternoon of the 26th, Huang Meifei sent a message, and they got a pass.
志愿者车被拦下的晚上，黄亿发了条微博说明情况，阅读量突破千万。
The night the volunteer car was stopped, Huang Yicheng sent a micro-blog to explain the situation, reading more than 10 million.
第二天很多部门主动联系了黄亿，“社区、医院、民政、团委、疾控、交管、卫健等等，好多单位都给了我们非常大的支持和帮助。
The next day, many departments contacted Huang Yiyi voluntarily. "Communities, hospitals, civil affairs, regimental committees, disease control, cross-management, health care and many other units have given us very large support and assistance.
”最终在相关部门的指导下，26号中午，他向为先社工的主管单位武昌区民政局提交了申请，下午五点半，志愿者们终于拿到了梦寐以求的通行证，他们可以继续开车寄送药品了。
"Finally, at noon on the 26th, under the guidance of the relevant departments, he submitted an application to the Wuchang District Civil Affairs Bureau, the administrative unit in charge of social work.
（文中黄亿、沈庆、张杰、吕书均为化名）本期编辑 邢潭推荐阅读。
(In the text Huangyi, Shen Qing, Zhang Jie, Lu Shuzhu are aliases) this issue editor Xingtan recommended reading.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“封城”后，他接到很多艾滋感染者的求助。
After the "closure", he received a lot of help from people infected with AIDS.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "“封城”后，他接到很多艾滋感染者的求助";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "“一些艾滋感染者即使断药，也不想表明自己的身份。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "Some people living with HIV do not want to identify themselves, even if they have a drug cut.
”";。
";;
title: '武汉，不能后退的理由',。
Wuhan, the reason why it was not possible to fall back.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '“湖北疫情依旧严峻，坚决不能放松”',。
"Hubei still has a serious epidemic and resolutely not to relax" & amp; apos; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '湖北：监狱、看守所原则上只进不出',。
Hubei: Not at all in prison or detention centre.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
