“复阳”到底什么情况？。
What exactly is "Fuyang" like?
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻记者 朱远祥3月4日，国家卫健委官网公布《新型冠状病毒肺炎诊疗方案（试行第七版）》，将此前要求出院患者进行14天“自我健康状况监测”，改为14天的“隔离管理和健康状况监测”。
Peng Pai journalist Zhu Yuanxiang announced March 4, the National Health Officers' Network announced the "new coronavirus pneumonia diagnosis and treatment programme (trial version 7)," the hospital discharged patients will be required to carry out 14 days of "self-health monitoring," instead of "isolation management and health monitoring.
国家卫健委在对新版诊疗方案进行解读时称，这一变化是“鉴于有少数出院患者出现核酸检测复检阳性的问题”。
Interpreting the new treatment plan, the National Institutes of Health said the change was "due to the fact that a small number of patients discharged from the hospital had tested positive for nucleic acid."
“复阳”，成为近期疫情中引发关注的热词，指新冠肺炎患者出院后“复检核酸呈阳性”。
"Fuyang" has become a hot word in the recent epidemic, referring to patients discharged from the New Crown Pneumonia "reexamination nucleic acid positive."
2月以来，我国多地出现少量患者出院后复检核酸阳性的情况。
Since February, there have been a small number of patients in China after discharge from the positive nucleic acid situation.
为何出现“复阳”？是患者的阴性结果为“假阴性”，还是体内仍有病毒残留，或出现间歇性排毒？目前，多名医学专家认为，“复阳”涉及多方面因素，其原因有待进一步观察。
Why is "Fuyang" present? Is the patient's negative result "false negative," or does the body still have viral residue or intermittent detoxification? Currently, many medical experts believe that "Fuyang" involves many factors, the reasons for which need to be further observed.
国家卫健委相关负责人曾在新闻发会上表示，目前各地还没有发现“复阳”者传染他人的情况。
National health committee officials have said at the news conference, "Fuyang" has not been found anywhere to infect other people.
2月下旬以来，湖北武汉多名临床医生建议，重新评估、提高对患者解除隔离和出院的标准。
Since late February, several clinical doctors in Wuhan, Hubei province, have suggested reassessing and raising standards for patients released from isolation and hospitals.
呼吸道病毒核酸检测试剂盒样品。
RV nucleic acid test kit samples.
图片来源于网络多地出现“复阳”现象，有的又很快“转阴”2月24日，江苏徐州首例新冠肺炎患者王先生解除隔离回家时，在天山绿洲小区受到一些居民和社区人员的欢迎。
The picture comes from the network of "Fuyang" phenomenon, some quickly "overcast" February 24, Xuzhou, Jiangsu Province, the first case of the new crown pneumonia Wang returned home from isolation, by some residents and community members of the oasis community.
当地媒体曾以“用爱铺就回家路”为题，报道了居民们迎接王先生回家的场景。
The local media used to report the scene of the residents welcoming Mr. Wang home under the theme of "Go Home with Love."
两天后，王先生去医院复检核酸，检测结果呈阳性。
Two days later, Mr. Wang went to the hospital to reexamine the nucleic acid and tested positive.
很快，他被收入到定点医院接受医学观察，在小区门口欢迎他的一些密切接触者被隔离观察。
Soon, he was admitted to the designated hospital for medical observation, and some of his close contacts who welcomed him in front of the cell were quarantined.
徐州市疾控部门通报了这一情况。
Xuzhou CDC department informed of this situation.
徐州新冠肺炎患者王先生2月24日解除隔离回家时，受到小区居民的欢迎。
Xuzhou new crown pneumonia patient Wang Feb 24 when the isolation home, by the residents of the community welcome.
两天后他复检测出核酸阳性。
Two days later he tested positive for nucleic acid.
视频截图 除了江苏，湖北、广东、天津、四川、海南等地近期也出现患者“复阳”现象。
In addition to Jiangsu, Hubei, Guangdong, Tianjin, Sichuan, Hainan, and other places have recently appeared in patients "Fuyang" phenomenon.
3月1日，海南首例新冠肺炎“复阳”患者易某从海南省人民医院出院。
March 1, Hainan's first new crown pneumonia "Fuyang" patient Yi from Hainan Province People's Hospital discharged.
据新华网报道，易某是2月19日出院的，而在隔离观察期间，其咽拭子检测呈阳性，于是再次入院治疗。
Yi was discharged from hospital on February 19, but his pharyngeal swab tested positive during quarantine observation and was hospitalized again, Xinhua reported.
也有“复阳”后很快“转阴”的。
There are also "Fuyang" soon after the "overcast."
3月2日，天津市卫健委通报称，该市第43例确诊患者2月11日出院后，27日复查核酸检测结果为阳性，再次入院观察，后来两次核酸检测阴性，于3月2日出院。
On March 2, Tianjin health committee reported that the city's 43 confirmed patients left the hospital on February 11, the 27-day review of the positive results of nucleic acid testing, re-admission observation, and then two negative nucleic acid tests, released on March 2.
此外，该市第20例、121例确诊患者出院后，也在隔离观察期间核酸复检阳性，3月2日这两名患者再次转入医院观察。
In addition, following the discharge of the city's twentieth case, 121 confirmed patients, who were also found to be nucleic acid positive during isolation observation, the two patients were again transferred to hospital for observation on 2 March.
在国内疫情最严重的湖北，武汉大学人民医院呼吸与危重症医学II科党支部书记张旃2月24日在微信公号上撰文称，18名新冠肺炎患者（均为该院医护人员）经治疗，连续两次呼吸道标本核酸检测呈阴性，按治疗标准可出院。
In Hubei Province, where the epidemic is most severe, chang Chang, secretary of the breathing and critical medicine section of Wuhan University's People's Hospital, wrote in the official letter on February 24 that 18 patients (all staff of the hospital) who had been treated for two consecutive RNA negative RNA tests were discharged from the hospital according to treatment criteria.
医院对上述18人延迟出院后再进行咽拭子核酸检测，发现13名患者出现阳性结果。
Hospital tests of pharyngeal swab nucleic acid (DNA) of the 18 patients were delayed and positive results were found in 13 patients.
广州也出现类似情况。
A similar situation occurred in Guangzhou.
在2月25日广州市政府召开的新闻发布会上，广州市第八人民医院感染病中心ICU主任李粤平介绍：“在出院病例的随访中，发现复阳的病人有13人。
"During the follow-up of the discharge cases, 13 patients were found to be suffering from Fuyang," Li Yuping, director of ICU at the Infection Centre of the Eighth People's Hospital in Guangzhou, told a press conference on February 25.
”“今天广州市一共发布了13个“复阳”的情况，104个密切接触者没有出现任何感染。
"There were 13 cases of" Fuyang "in Guangzhou today, and 104 close contacts did not have any infection.
”在2月25日下午广东省政府新闻办召开的新闻发布会上，广东省疾控中心副主任宋铁说，全省的“复阳”患者没有出现传染给他人的情况，“我们省其实有个初步的数据，现在出院的病人里面，有14%的人也有‘复阳’的现象。
Song Tiejie, deputy director of Guangdong Provincial Government's CDC, said at a press conference on the afternoon of Feb. 25 that there had been no cases of transmission from Fuyang patients in the province.
”海南首例新冠肺炎“复阳”患者易某3月1日从海南省人民医院出院。
Hainan's first case of "Fuyang" pneumonia was discharged from Hainan People's Hospital on March 1.
图片来源：新华网病毒残留？假阴性？间歇性排毒？“复阳”原因有待研究虽然多地出现患者“复阳”，但值得庆幸的是，目前还没有发现“复阳”者传染他人的情况。
Photo source: Xinhua Net virus residue? False negative? intermittent detoxification? "Fuyang" reason to be studied Although there are many patients "Fuyang," but fortunately, so far, "Fuyang" has not been found to spread to others.
“部分省份报告治愈出院患者，在复诊过程中发现有核酸检测阳性的情况。
"Some provinces have reported curing patients discharged from hospitals and finding nucleic acid positive during revisits.
我们高度重视，组织专家对这个问题进行研究，同时也加强对这部分病例的连续监测。
We attach great importance to the organization of experts to study this issue, but also to strengthen the continuous monitoring of this part of the case.
”在国务院联防联控机制2月28日召开的新闻发布会上，国家卫健委医政医管局监察专员郭燕红说，通过监测发现，这部分患者没有再发生传染别人的现象。
At a press conference on February 28, Guo Yanhong, an inspector at the State Council's Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism, said monitoring showed that there was no further transmission to other patients.
为什么出现“复阳”的情况？郭燕红表示，新冠肺炎病毒是一个新病毒，对于它的致病机理、疾病的全貌和病程的特点，还需要进一步加深认识。
Guo Yanhong said that the new crown pneumonia virus was a new virus and needed to be better understood for its pathogenic mechanism, the full extent of the disease and the characteristics of its course.
2月19日，成都市锦江区望江锦园一位出院的新冠肺炎患者，接受复检显示核酸阳性。
February 19, Jinjiang District, Chengdu, Wangjiang Jinyuan a patient discharged from the New Crown Pneumonia, a reexamination showed nucleic acid positive.
四川省新冠肺炎医疗救治专家组成员、四川大学华西医院感染性疾病中心副主任雷学忠接受红星新闻采访时认为，成都这名患者不属于复发，“更大的可能性是少许病毒的持续残留，是一个没有清除干净的过程。
In an interview with Red Star News, Lei Xuezhong, a member of the Sichuan team of experts on treating pneumonia and vice-director of the Infectious Diseases Center at Sichuan University's Huaxi Hospital, said the patient did not have a relapse.
”对于广州市第八人民医院收治的13例复阳病例，该院感染病中心ICU主任李粤平在2月25日广东举行的发布会上表示，这些患者并没有出现症状再次加重的情况，“可能大便里带一点毒，但是大便里带的这个毒到底是活病毒还是死病毒，技术上暂时很难区分。
"There may be a little poison in the stool, but it's technically hard to tell whether the poison in the stool is a live or dead virus," Li Guangdong, director of the ICU of Guangzhou's Eighth People's Hospital, told a news conference in Guangdong on February 25.
”广东省疾控中心副主任宋铁在上述发布会上分析，从目前的观察来看，许多“复阳”患者的肺部炎症此前处于吸收过程，还不能称为临床上的痊愈，“正是因为这种情况，我们判断它可能会间歇性地存在排毒的现象。
Song Tie, deputy director of Guangdong's CDC, said at the conference that "it is because of the absorption of inflammation in the lungs of many" Fuyang "patients that it is not yet clinically healed that it is possible to detect intermittent detoxification.
”3月2日，《中华结核和呼吸杂志》微信公号刊发华中科技大学附属同济医院呼吸与危重症医学科周灵、刘馗、刘辉国的文章，对新冠肺炎患者“复阳”原因进行分析。
On March 2, the Chinese Journal of Tuberculosis and Respiratory Sciences published the article by Zhou Ling, Liu Kui and Liu Huiguo, affiliated Tongji Hospital of Huazhong University of Science and Technology.
刘辉国等人认为，患者“复阳”，一般受到病毒生物学特性、临床状况、基础疾病、糖皮质激素的使用等因素的影响，另外，也可能与标本采样和检测过程有关，“2019-nCoV主要感染部位在下呼吸道及肺部，且需要一定的病毒量，才可检测出核酸阳性，进行咽拭子采上呼吸道样本时，可能导致检出结果出现假阴性。
Liu and others believe that "Fuyang" is generally affected by viral biological characteristics, clinical conditions, basic diseases, use of glucocorticoid, and possibly the sample sampling and detection process. "2019-nCoV is mainly in the lower respiratory tract and lungs and requires a certain amount of virus to detect nucleic acid positive.
”2月27日，广州市政府新闻办举行的疫情防控专场新闻通气会上，国家卫健委高级别专家组组长、国家呼吸系统疾病临床医学研究中心主任钟南山院士表示，出院患者“复阳”可能涉及自身情况、核酸检测等多种因素，需要不断观察，“一个是试剂本身的问题，第二个是检测的方法。
At a press briefing on the prevention and control of the epidemic held by the Guangzhou Municipal Government Information Office on February 27, academician Zhong Nan-shan, head of the National Center for Clinical Research in Respiratory Diseases and head of the National Center for Clinical Research in Respiratory Diseases.
”国家卫健委医政医管局监察专员郭燕红2月28日表示，正组织专家对“复阳”情况进行研究，“对疾病的发生、发展、转归的全程进一步加深认识。
Guo Yanhong, an inspector at the National Hospital Authority, said on February 28 that experts were being organized to study the situation in Fuyang to further deepen understanding of the whole process of occurrence, development and progression of the disease.
”临床医生建议提高“标准”，新方案加强出院管理针对患者“复阳”情况，武汉大学附属中南医院影像科主任徐海波、检验科主任李一荣的研究团队，2月27日在国际四大顶级医学期刊之一的《美国医学协会杂志》在线发表研究成果。
"Doctors recommended raising the" standard "and strengthening discharge management for patients with" Fuyang. "Xu Haibo, director of imaging at Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital, and Li Yirong, director of the laboratory, published the results online on February 27 in the Journal of the American Medical Association, one of the world's top four medical journals.
该研究团队发现，4名符合出院标准的新冠肺炎患者在5至13天后核酸检测呈阳性。
The team found that four patients who met the criteria for discharge tested positive for nucleic acid five to 13 days later.
“至少一部分康复患者仍可能是病毒携带者。
"At least some of those recovering may still be carriers of the virus.
”徐海波等人提出，可能需要重新评估当前的患者出院、解除隔离和后续管理的标准。
Xu and others suggest that current standards for discharge, de-isolation and follow-up may need to be re-evaluated.
从新冠疫情发生至2月18日，国家卫健委根据临床诊断和研究情况，先后发布了六版试行的《新型冠状病毒肺炎诊疗方案》。
From the outbreak of the New Coronavirus to February 18, the State Health Council issued a trial version of the "New Coronavirus Pneumonia Diagnosis and Treatment Programme" based on clinical diagnosis and research.
根据第六版诊疗方案，患者解除隔离和出院标准之一，是连续两次呼吸道标本核酸检测阴性。
Under the sixth edition of the protocol, one of the criteria for release from isolation and discharge is negative detection of nucleic acid in two consecutive respiratory specimens.
张旃2月24日写的上述微信公号文章，题为《关于“解除隔离与出院标准”的谏言》。
Chandrake wrote the above-mentioned official letter of 24 February, entitled "Advice on the criteria for release from isolation and discharge."
鉴于“复阳”现象，文章建议提高患者出院标准，比如，可考虑将“连续2次”呼吸道标本核酸检测阴性，改为“连续3次”。
"In view of the Fuyang phenomenon, the article recommends raising discharge standards for patients, such as" two consecutive "RNA negative," three times in a row.
张旃在文中提及，江苏、浙江、上海等地已经采取了更严格的患者出院标准。
Zhang included in the article that Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Shanghai and other places have adopted more stringent standards for patients discharged from the hospital.
上海市新冠肺炎专家治疗组组长、华山医院感染科主任张文宏近日接受媒体采访时介绍，上海的患者没有出现“复阳”情况，“两次核酸（测试）阴性以后，我们还会给病人做肛拭子。
Zhang Wenhong, head of the expert treatment group of Shanghai Xinguan Pneumonia and director of the infection department at Huashan Hospital, told reporters recently that patients in Shanghai have not had "fuyang" symptoms.
”所谓“肛拭子”，是对粪便病原进行检测的标本采样。
The so-called "anal swab" is a specimen sample taken from a fecal pathogen test.
不过，在钟南山看来，由于各地医疗条件和疫情防控压力的差异，改变全国性的诊疗方案需要谨慎。
However, Zhong Nan Shan, due to the differences in medical conditions and epidemic prevention and control pressure, change in the national diagnosis and treatment program need to be cautious.
2月24日他接受央视记者采访时提到了这一问题。
He raised the issue in an interview with CCTV on Feb. 24.
“如果我们将目前的检测标准进行调整，要求患者的肛拭子检测结果也完全呈阴性，这样就容易造成病人的积压，影响后续诊疗。
"If we adjusted the current test criteria, we asked patients to be completely negative for anal swab tests, which would create a backlog of patients and affect follow-up.
”钟南山说，“我建议对于这些病人要进行分级管理，密切观察。
"I recommend that these patients be graded and closely monitored," Zhong said.
”患者“复阳”现象很快引起国家层面的重视。
The phenomenon of patients with "Fuyang" quickly drew attention at the national level.
国家卫健委医政医管局监察专员郭燕红2月28日表示，要进一步加强对出院患者的管理和健康监测。
Hospital Authority (HA) Inspector Guo Yanhong said on February 28 that the management and health monitoring of patients discharged from hospital should be further strengthened.
四天后的3月3日，国家卫健委下发通知，印发了《新型冠状病毒肺炎诊疗方案（试行第七版）》。
Four days later, on March 3, the State Health Committee issued a notice to issue the "New Coronavirus Pneumonia Diagnosis and Treatment Programme (Trial Version 7)."
3月4日，国家卫健委在其官网公布新版诊疗方案并进行了解读。
On March 4, the National Health Commission published a new version of the program on its website and interpreted it.
新型冠状病毒肺炎诊疗方案（试行第七版）截图。
A New Diagnosis and Treatment Scheme for Coronavirus Pneumonia (7th Edition).
图片来源：国家卫健委官网原来第六版诊疗方案中的“解除隔离和出院标准”，改为新版方案中的“出院标准”，这意味着患者出院并不马上解除隔离。
Source: "Release from isolation and discharge criteria" from the original 6th edition of the program to the new version of the "discharge standards," which means patients are discharged from the hospital without immediate isolation.
国家卫健委解读新方案称，“鉴于有少数出院患者出现核酸检测复检阳性的问题”，加强对出院患者的健康管理和隔离。
"In view of the small number of patients discharged from hospital who have tested positive for nucleic acid tests," the National Health Commission said in a new interpretation of the program, the health management and isolation of patients discharged from hospitals has been strengthened.
新诊疗方案将原来的“应继续进行14天自我健康状况监测”，改为了“应继续进行14天的隔离管理和健康状况监测”。
The new programme replaces the previous "14-day self-health surveillance" with "14-day isolation management and health surveillance should be continued."
如此一来，从“自我监测”升级到“隔离管理”，各地对出院患者的管理力度将明显增强。
In this way, from "self-monitoring" to "isolation management," the management of patients discharged from the hospital will be significantly enhanced.
本期编辑 邢潭推荐阅读。
This issue editor Xingtan recommended reading.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“复阳”到底什么情况？。
What exactly is "Fuyang" like?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "“复阳”到底什么情况？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "多地出现“复阳”现象，有的又很快“转阴”";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '武汉，不能后退的理由',。
Wuhan, the reason why it was not possible to fall back.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '“湖北疫情依旧严峻，坚决不能放松”',。
"Hubei still has a serious epidemic and resolutely not to relax" & amp; apos; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '湖北：监狱、看守所原则上只进不出',。
Hubei: Not at all in prison or detention centre.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
