数说疫情0306：湖北非武汉地区首次零新增，美国感染数可能被低估。
Count 0306: Hubei non-Wuhan region for the first time zero new infections in the United States may be underestimated.
徐进。
Xu Jin.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
境外累计确诊病例即将超过2万。
The cumulative number of confirmed cases abroad is about to exceed 20,000.
美国很可能有上千例潜在感染病例以及他们的密切接触者未能被及时发现和隔离，到目前为止，“我们看到的美国官方病例数字可能只是冰山一角”。
There are likely to be thousands of potential infections in the United States, and their close contacts have not been detected and isolated in time, so far "the official number of cases we have seen in the United States may be just the tip of the iceberg."
文 |《财经》数据研究员徐进 图 |《财经》视觉中心 编辑 | 郝洲一、国内疫情防控进入决胜期，输入病例已全部隔离今日国内简述：国内3月5日报告累计病例80552例，新增143例，低于意大利、伊朗、韩国、德国等国。
Hsu Jin-tou, a Caijing data researcher with Caijing, has entered a decisive phase of domestic control and control. The number of imported cases has been quarantined. Today, China reported 80,552 cases on March 5, an increase of 143, lower than in Italy, Iran, South Korea and Germany.
新增病例126例来自武汉，广大非武汉地区本土病例仅1例，境外输入16例。
The 126 new cases came from Wuhan, the vast majority of non-Wuhan local cases only 1 case, 16 cases imported from abroad.
这些输入病例均已在入境后第一时间隔离，在境内造成进一步传播扩散的机会很小。
These imported cases have been isolated for the first time since entry, creating little chance of further spread within the country.
湖北非武汉地区首次实现零新增。
Hubei non-Wuhan region for the first time to achieve zero new.
广大非武汉地区在外防输入的同时，已对武汉疫情形成完全彻底的包围，国内抗疫已到决胜关头。
The vast non-Wuhan region outside the prevention of input, has formed a complete siege of the Wuhan epidemic, the domestic epidemic has reached the decisive point.
考虑到国外疫情总体还处于流行期前期，较长时间、较大规模发展恐在所难免，按中央要求“加快建立同疫情防控相适应的经济社会运行秩序”，“力争全国经济社会发展早日全面步入正常轨道”已成为必然之选。
Considering that the epidemic in foreign countries is still in the early stage of epidemic stage and that a longer and larger-scale development is inevitable, it has become imperative to accelerate the establishment of an economic and social operational order suitable for disease prevention and control according to the Central Committee's request.
二、境外累计确诊很快将超过2万图1全球累计确诊病例即将超过10万。
II. The cumulative number of confirmed cases abroad will soon exceed 20,000 Graph 1.
世卫专家组组长布鲁斯·艾尔沃德（Bruce Aylward）在率领考察队访问中国之后总结道，中国的抗疫方式可以被复制，但这需要速度、资金、想象力和政治勇气，迅速采取行动的国家仍可能控制住疫情。
Bruce Aylward, the head of the WHO team, concluded after a visit to China that China's approach to fighting the disease can be replicated, but that it takes speed, money, imagination, and political courage, and countries that act quickly can still contain the epidemic.
图2果不出小编预料，这张图今天真的扩容了。
Fig. 2 is not expected to be a small editor, this picture really expanded today.
德国单日新增283，几乎是中国的两倍。
Germany added 283 a day, almost twice as much as China.
目前看接下来将是法国，美国紧随其后。
For now, France will follow, followed by the United States.
三、美国距离疫情的“全貌”还有“很远的距离”图3今天把美国地图的位置提前了，想知道为什么吗？因为ta真的太太太太……重要了。
Fig. 3 The position of the map of the United States has been brought forward today. Do you want to know why? Because the real wife... is important.
美国副总统彭斯（Mike Pence）3月5日承认，没有足够的检测试剂盒来满足需求。
Vice President Mike Pence admitted on March 5 that there were not enough test kits to meet demand.
美国国际开发总署（USAID）前署长康宁迪克（Jeremy Konyndyk）也对媒体说，美国只确认了该国冠状病毒病例总数的一小部分。
Jeremy Konyndyk, former head of the United States Agency for International Development, also told the press that the United States had confirmed only a small fraction of the total number of coronavirus cases in the country.
他还说，由于检测的不足，我们离窥见美国病例总数的全貌还有很远的距离，到目前为止，我们看到的美国官方病例数字可能只是冰山一角。
"We are still a long way from seeing the full picture of the total number of cases in the United States because of inadequate testing," he said. "So far, the official figures we have seen in the United States may be just the tip of the iceberg."
图4美国的新增病例数似有起跳迹象。
Figure 4. New cases in the United States appear to have taken off.
最令人担忧的是其初期病死率竟高达5%-7%。
Most worrying is the initial fatality rate of 5% -7%.
对比中国湖北以外地区早期0.3%-0.6%的病死率，不能不产生怀疑。
In comparison with the earlier mortality rate of 0.3% -0.6% outside Hubei in China, doubts could not be avoided.
很难相信这是美国的医疗能力和水平低于中国湖北以外地区所致。
It is hard to believe that this is because America's medical capabilities and standards are lower than outside Hubei, China.
因此很可能美国初期收治、确诊的主要是重症新冠病例。
Therefore, it is likely that the early treatment in the United States, confirmed is the major new crown case.
这意味着目前病死率的分母被大大低估。
This means that the denominator of the current fatality rate is greatly underestimated.
即便按中国湖北以外地区早期的0.6%推算，这个低估也可能在10倍左右（按0.3就是20倍）。
Even on the basis of an earlier estimate of 0.6 per cent outside Hubei, the estimate could be around 10 times (0.3 or 20 times).
那就是说还有上千例潜在感染病例以及他们的密切接触者未能被及时发现，他们正在不知不觉中以R0赋予的速度以指数函数的方式散播病毒。
That is to say that thousands of potential infections and their close contacts are not being detected in time, and they are unknowingly spreading the virus as exponential functions at the speed given by R0.
当然这还有待进一步观察，真心希望这一推断是错误的。
It remains to be seen, of course, whether this is true or not.
但愿美国不至于犯这么低级的错误。
I wish America wouldn't make such a stupid mistake.
好消息是美国作为全球医疗科技和公共卫生服务水平的领先者，各种资源正在被积极调动起来，重视程度也在不断提高。
The good news is that the US, a global leader in health technology and public-health services, is actively mobilizing resources and paying increasing attention.
四、韩国开始限购口罩了图5韩国累计确诊突破6000，依然是中国境外疫情最严重的国家。
South Korea begins to limit the purchase of face masks Figure 5 South Korea has been diagnosed more than 6000, remains the most serious epidemic outside China.
韩国政府为建立一个公平的口罩销售系统，宣布自3月6日开始，每名顾客每周只能在药房买2个口罩。
The South Korean government has announced that starting on March 6, each customer will be allowed to buy only two masks a week at a pharmacy to set up a fair system for selling masks.
根据顾客的年份，奇数年份出生者只能在奇数日期买口罩；偶数年份出生者则在偶数日期买。
People born in odd years can buy masks only on odd days, depending on the customer's year; those born in even-numbered years buy them on even-numbered days.
五、疫情给欧洲经济带来伤害图6自意大利之后，德国、法国的单日新增也首次破百；英国出现首例死亡，确诊总数过百。
Fig. 6 After Italy, Germany and France also broke 100 per day for the first time, while the United Kingdom had its first case, with more than 100 confirmed cases.
疫情在欧洲已彻底暴发，正给欧洲带来巨大的经济伤害。
The outbreak has been devastating in Europe and is taking a heavy economic toll on Europe.
旅游趋势分析公司ForwardKeys最新报告显示，截至2月最后一周，新冠炎疫情已对意大利和欧洲的入境旅客数量产生巨大冲击，大批预定取消，并且从全球其他洲前往欧洲的新增机票预定也断崖式下跌。
The latest report by travel trend analyst Forward Keys shows that by the last week of February, the new crown had had a huge impact on the number of arrivals in Italy and Europe, with cancellations scheduled and new airline tickets to Europe from other continents slashed.
图7意大利依然是欧洲疫情最严重的国家。
Figure 7 Italy remains the most affected country in Europe.
意大利皮亚琴察市女市长巴比里（Patrizia Barbieri）也被确诊感染新冠，目前居家隔离。
Patrizia Barbieri, Italy's mayor of Piacenza, has also been confirmed to be infected with the new crown and is now isolated at home.
意国家高等卫生研究院正研判扩大红区范围的可行性，可以理解为意大利有可能封闭隔离更多的城镇。
The Italian National Institute of Higher Health is examining the feasibility of expanding the Red Zone, which could be interpreted as a possibility for Italy to seal off more towns.
【特别说明：以上统计，2月28日前为世卫组织官方统计数据，数据截止时间为北京时间每日17时；从2月28日开始，数据由《财经》根据公开资料统计，截止时间为北京时间每日9时】六、全球疫情数字速览：1、【亚太经济体损失2110亿美元】评级机构标普表示，新型冠状病毒疫情的快速蔓延可能会使亚太地区经济体损失2,110亿美元。
According to the statistics, the deadline for the data is 17: 00 daily Beijing time before Feb. 28. Starting from Feb. 28, data by Caijing is 9: 00 a.m. daily according to open data.
标普预计2020年澳大利亚经济增长将从2019年的2.2%大幅放缓至1.2%。
S & P expects growth to slow sharply to 1.2% in 2020 from 2.2% in 2019.
日本GDP增长将因疫情减少0.5个百分点，韩国GDP增长将减少1个百分点。
GDP growth in Japan will be cut by 0.5 percentage points due to the epidemic, and in South Korea by 1 percentage point.
2、【航空业损失1130亿美元】国际航空运输协会（IATA）3月5日在最新发布的新冠肺炎疫情对全球航空运输业的财务影响预测中指出， 2020年全球客运业务的收入损失将介于630亿美元（数据基于3月2日，新冠肺炎确诊数超过100例的国家）到1,130亿美元（疫情传播范围更广的情况下）之间。
Air Transport Losses $113 Billion The International Air Transport Association (IATA), in its latest forecast of the financial impact of the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic on the global air transport industry on March 5, said the loss of revenue for the global passenger transport business in 2020 would range from $63 billion (based on March 2 in countries with more than 100 confirmed cases) to $113 billion (with the epidemic spreading more widely).
3、【罚款5000万韩元】韩国保健福祉部3月6日表示，韩国从即日颁布实施新修订的《传染病预防管理法实施条例》。
3, 50 million won fine South Korea's Health and Welfare Ministry said March 6, the Republic of Korea promulgated the new revised "Infectious Disease Prevention and Management Law Implementation Regulations.
根据修订令，因甲类传染病流行（包括COVID-19）导致预防、防疫、治疗物资价格飙升或紧缺，影响国民健康安全时，政府有权禁止卫生口罩、洗手液、防护装备出口或运往国外，违者将处以5年以下有期徒刑或5000万韩元（约合人民币29万元）以下罚款。
Under the amendment order, the Government has the right to prohibit the export or transport abroad of sanitary masks, hand sanitizers, protective equipment or other protective equipment when the epidemic of Class A infectious diseases (including COVID-19) causes soaring prices or shortages of prevention, prophylaxis and therapeutic materials affecting the health and safety of the nation.
4、【最高40%人口感染】伊朗卫生部于3月5日宣布启动国家动员计划。
Up to 40 percent of the population infected The Iranian Health Ministry announced the launch of a national mobilization plan on March 5.
该计划将先在疫情严重地区开始实施，接下来几天内扩展至其他地区。
The plan will begin in high-impact areas and expand to other areas within the next few days.
该计划将包括伊朗全部城市、郊区和乡村的约1.7万个卫生中心以及9,000个医疗和临床中心。
The plan will include approximately 17,000 health centres and 9,000 medical and clinical centres in all cities, suburbs and villages in Iran.
此外，伊朗传染病专家、国家流感委员会委员马苏德•马达尼预计，“新冠肺炎病毒正在伊朗蔓延，预计3月底德黑兰将有30%至40%的人口受到感染。
Moreover, Masud Madani, an Iranian infectious disease expert and member of the National Influenza Committee, predicts that "the virus is spreading in Iran, with 30 to 40 per cent of Tehran's population expected to be infected by the end of March."
”小结：美国很可能有上千例潜在感染病例以及他们的密切接触者未能被及时发现和隔离，到目前为止，“我们看到的美国官方病例数字可能只是冰山一角”。
Summary: There are likely to be thousands of potential infections in the United States and their close contacts that have not been detected and isolated in time, so far "the official number of cases we have seen in the United States may be just the tip of the iceberg."
新冠疫情的暴发已经给全球经济造成了实质性伤害。
The outbreak of the New Crown has taken a heavy toll on the global economy.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click Here for more information about the epidemic:: Archives & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and may not be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
数说疫情0306：湖北非武汉地区首次零新增，美国感染数可能被低估。
Count 0306: Hubei non-Wuhan region for the first time zero new infections in the United States may be underestimated.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "数说疫情0306：湖北非武汉地区首次零新增，美国感染数可能被低估";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "境外累计确诊病例即将超过2万。
var msg _ desc = & quot; cumulative number of confirmed cases abroad is about to exceed 20,000.
美国很可能有上千例潜在感染病例以及他们的密切接触者未能被及时发现和隔离，到目前为止，“我们看到的美国官方病例数字可能只是冰山一角”。
There are likely to be thousands of potential infections in the United States, and their close contacts have not been detected and isolated in time, so far "the official number of cases we have seen in the United States may be just the tip of the iceberg."
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
