餐饮老板抗疫三战：从线下零收入，到线上增长14倍。
Catering boss three battle against the epidemic: zero income from the line, to the line of 14 times growth.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 财经五月花。
The following article comes in May.
Author 财经五月花。
May Flowers of Finance.
财经五月花。
May Flowers of Finance.
这是《财经》杂志“资本与金融”领域的垂直公号，聚焦前瞻、深度的金融制度与市场报道。
This is Caijing magazine "Capital and Finance" field of vertical public, focusing on the forward-looking, in-depth financial system and market reporting.
。
.
从疫情中逆势营业遭质疑，到免费送餐获大规模订购，再到自救中发现餐饮食品化的转型新路，在这位餐饮老板眼中，疫情一度令其遭受巨大经济损失，也练就了团队在逆境中的生存和创新能力为抗疫一线的医护人员等制作免费餐食（图源/受访者提供）文 |《财经》记者 张颖馨编辑 | 袁满新冠肺炎疫情发生后，你的第一时间反应是什么？很多人回答是：“我该怎么办？”但有一群人，他们来不及从自己的角度思考，因为在他们背后站着员工、顾客社会生活。
From the epidemic's counter-trend business to the massive ordering of free meals to the transformation of food to self-help, the restaurant owner saw the epidemic as a huge economic loss and trained teams to survive and innovate in the face of adversity.
疫情全国蔓延一个多月，餐饮行业首当其冲受到影响。
The epidemic has spread across the country for more than a month, with the catering industry bearing the brunt.
不少餐饮企业被迫暂停营业，但有一位餐饮业老板说，自己要从员工、顾客、社会责任的角度出发，执拗地“逆势”营业。
Many restaurant companies were forced to suspend operations, but one restaurant owner said he would stubbornly "reverse the trend" from the point of view of employees, customers and social responsibility.
有餐饮同行质疑他在“犯傻”，他却坚称自己不会做无谓的牺牲。
A restaurant colleague questioned whether he was "foolish," but insisted he would not make senseless sacrifices.
日前，这个在全国拥有过百家门店、过万名员工，疫情中损失近亿元的餐饮企业负责人接受了《财经》记者采访。
The head of the restaurant business, who has more than 100 stores and 10,000 employees across the country, gave an interview to Caijing the head of the restaurant industry, who lost nearly 100 million yuan to the epidemic.
与其电话连线已是深夜12时，他刚结束集团的视频会议。
It had been 12: 00 in the evening and he had just concluded the group's videoconference.
“现在比疫情前忙多了，天天都处于亢奋、激动的状态，但又忐忑不安。
"It's much busier than it was before the epidemic, and every day it is in a state of excitement and trepidation.
因为从疫情开始至今，我们就一直站在风口浪尖，我特怕说错一句话、做错一件事，给我们集团的抗疫工作带来不好的影响。
Because we have been on the cusp of the epidemic since its beginning, and I am particularly afraid of saying a wrong word or doing something wrong that could have a negative impact on our group's fight against the epidemic.
”他向《财经》记者分享了此次抗疫的“实战”经验，并强调“社会需要我们多久，我们就并肩战斗多久”。
He shared with Caijing the "real-life" experience of the epidemic, stressing that "as long as society needs us, we fight together for as long as it takes."
以下为这名餐饮企业负责人的自述，《财经》记者进行了部分删减。
The Caijing reporter made a partial cut, following a self-report by the head of the restaurant business.
1、防疫战：逆势营业遭质疑抗疫前期物资紧缺，湖北区域负责人将雨衣用作防护服，向一线医疗工作人员免费提供餐食（图源/受访者提供）虽然曾带领过万名员工经历“非典”、“512”汶川地震等突发事件，但此次新冠肺炎疫情来势汹汹，经验不能照搬，只能根据具体情况制定“作战方案”。
1, epidemic prevention: adverse business is questioned the pre-epidemic materials shortage, Hubei area responsible for the raincoat as a protective clothing, front-line medical staff (provided by the map / respondents) Although the 10,000 staff members experienced SARS, "512" Wenchuan earthquake and other emergencies, but the new outbreak of pneumonia, experience can not be copied, can only be tailored to the specific circumstances.
我们的方案从一开始就放弃了全部关店或者让员工在住所原地不动的选择，而是让全国百余家门店，能营业的都坚持营业。
Our plan was to give up the option of closing all the stores or leaving the staff in the same place as they were, but to keep more than 100 stores open and open all over the country.
有餐饮同行说，你是不是傻了、疯了？这样的质疑是正常的，疫情中餐饮行业遭受冲击巨大，损失过千万元者不在少数。
There is a restaurant colleague said, you are not stupid, crazy? Such a question is normal, the catering industry suffered a huge impact, the loss of tens of millions of dollars.
在承受经济损失的基础上，若还要去面临新冠肺炎的感染风险，无疑是雪上加霜。
On the basis of the economic losses, to face the risk of new crown pneumonia infection, is no doubt worse.
我算了算账，仅疫情发生后的10天时间，我们的营业额就比去年同期下降了8-9成，退餐金额近2000万元。
I calculated, only 10 days after the outbreak of the epidemic, our turnover compared to the same period last year fell by 8-90%, almost 20 million yuan.
没法继续算，再算就觉得活不下去了。
Can not continue to calculate, and then feel unable to live.
所以这次，不能按照“我怎么办”的思路。
So this time, can not follow the "I do" train of thought.
于是我问了自己三个问题：员工怎么办？顾客怎么办？我们能不能为抗击疫情做点什么？基于这三个问题，我们集团总部迅速成立了防控小组，由我担任组长，总裁和品控负责人担任副组长，建立起“总部、职能部门、区域、门店”4级应急防控责任体系，明确门店是防控第一关口，一线店长是第一责任人。
So I asked myself three questions: What about the staff? What about the customers? Can we do anything to combat the epidemic? Based on these three questions, our group headquarters quickly established a control group, chaired by me, the president and the head of quality control as the deputy leader, set up "headquarters, functional departments, regions, stores" 4 emergency prevention and control responsibility system, clear shop is the first point of prevention and control.
针对员工，我们做出了具体要求：1、每天两次为员工测量体温，并分为三个等级：干咳、肌肉酸痛、全身无力需休假；发烧、干咳需休假；体温在37度以上（须送医院）并隔离。
For staff, we have made specific requirements: 1, twice a day for staff temperature, and divided into three levels: dry cough, muscle pain, general inability to take leave; fever, dry cough need leave; temperature above 37 degrees (need to be taken to hospital) and isolation.
2、每天上传至BI系统，时时监控。
2, upload to BI system every day, monitor constantly.
3、每家门店预留一间隔离室，发烧、感冒，身体不适的留用。
3, each store set aside an isolation room, fever, cold, the body is not comfortable retention.
4、宿舍派专人每天两次紫外线消毒，并开窗通风，深度卫生清洁；上班必须戴口罩、手套等。
4, dormitory to send two times a day ultraviolet disinfection, and open windows ventilation, deep sanitation clean; must wear masks, gloves, etc.
员工的问题解决了，接下来就是顾客，首先是要保证就餐环境的安全。
The employee's problem is solved, then the customer, first is to ensure the safety of the dining environment.
我们在原有的各项安全卫生制度措施基础上，从前厅、后厨等环节采取了特殊措施，如每餐对前厅地面、门把手（1小时消毒一次）、公用具、厨房等进行消毒；门店防控组长每天两次将以水印相机拍照上传总部，做到事事可追踪等。
On the basis of the existing safety and health system measures, special measures have been taken from the front and back kitchen areas, such as disinfecting the floor, door knobs (one hour of disinfection), utilities, kitchens, etc.; twice daily, the team leader of the store will photograph the watermark camera and upload it to the headquarters so that everything can be tracked.
如果客人到店就餐，我们则进一步要求：到店客人测量体温、手部正反面消毒；为顾客提供免费一次性手套、口罩；为顾客提供分餐勺、公筷；桌子间距拉开至少1.5米以上；餐具现来现摆，如客人对餐具还不放心，提供再一次煮烫餐具等服务。
If the guests go to the restaurant, we further request: temperature measurement, hand disinfection; free disposable gloves, masks for customers; table spoons, chopsticks; table spacing apart at least 1.5 meters; Tableware is now in place, such as guests are not worried about tableware, such as cooking and ironing services.
接下来是第三个问题：我们能为抗击疫情做些什么？“和平时期餐饮服务，非常时期战地食堂”，这是我们多次应对突击事件积累的一个经验。
Then there is the third question: What can we do to combat the epidemic? "peacetime catering, emergency field canteens," a lesson we have accumulated over the years in response to surprise incidents.
我们在湖北武汉、黄冈等地有相应的分店，了解到一线医护人员的就餐需求，我们立即通过政府对接了几家新冠肺炎治疗重点医院，从1月25日开始，为一线医护人员等提供免费餐食。
We have branches in Wuhan, Huanggang and other places in Hubei Province. Knowing the dining needs of front-line medical staff, we immediately docked several key hospitals for the treatment of new crown pneumonia through the government, starting on January 25 to provide free meals to front-line medical personnel and others.
此外，我们还向社区人员、环卫处工人等赠送免费工作餐。
In addition, we give free meals to community members, EHS workers, etc.
1月底的时候，我们就送出了超过2000份的免费食盒，如今还在继续……上述三个问题的核心在于正常营业，但这最初是遭到政府等方面反对的。
By the end of January, we had delivered more than 2,000 free food boxes, and we continue to do so... The core of the three problems was normal business, which was initially opposed by the government and others.
后来我们就把自己的真实想法与监管沟通，这个阶段线下客流量、收入几乎为0，我们坚持开店不是为了去赚钱，而是想给身在一线的医疗人员、环卫工人等免费赠送餐食。
Later we communicated our real thoughts to the regulatory authorities, where off-line passenger traffic and revenue were almost zero. Instead of trying to make money, we insisted on giving free meals to front-line health workers, sanitation workers, etc.
后来政府破例让我们正常营业。
Then the government made an exception and allowed us to open.
送餐过程中也发生了一些让人心疼的事。
In the process of delivering meals, there have also been some heartbreaking things.
我们自己的员工都20岁出头，饭菜送到的地方全部是疫情重灾区，过程中不少送餐员都被吓哭了。
Our own staff were in their early 20s, and the food was delivered all over the stricken area, scaring many of the waiters in the process.
怎么办？湖北区域的负责人亲自上阵，“又当爹又当妈”，没有防护服就用雨衣披上，以保证餐食及时供应到最需要的地方。
Hubei region of the person in charge of the battle, "when the father and mother," no protective clothing on the raincoat to ensure timely food supply to the most needy places.
后来政府向我们送来了防护镜、眼罩、防护服等物资，大家送餐时心里更踏实了。
Later, the government sent us protective goggles, blindfolds, protective clothing and other supplies, we were more comfortable when sending food.
2、自救战：从免费送餐到大规模订购设立线下菜站，提供新鲜食材（图源/受访者提供）经营战其实也是自救战，要支撑抗疫工作，那首先也得保证自己能够活下去。
(2) Self-Help Wars: From free meals to large-scale ordering of an offline dish station, providing fresh ingredients (source / interviewee) Operations are also self-help battles. To sustain the fight against the epidemic, one must first ensure one's own survival.
我们没有让员工休假，而是给了这些员工三倍加班费；为了感谢节日期间依然奋战在一线的员工，发放了红包共计220 万元；为保证员工的健康，购置了价值38 万元的口罩、消毒液、体温表、酒精、防护服……这些支出，再叠加其他损失，如果不想办法自救，那恐怕撑不过3个月。
Instead of giving staff time off, we gave them three times as much overtime; to thank the employees who were still on the front line during the holiday, 2.2 million yuan in red envelopes were distributed. To ensure their health, 380,000 yuan worth of masks, disinfectants, thermometers, alcohol and protective clothing were purchased.
我们面对的第一个挑战是如何消化备菜？于是，我们开始尝试在非疫情区的门店开启线下便民菜站。
The first challenge we faced was how to digest food preparation, so we started to try to open off-line snack stations in non-epidemic areas.
除了一些平价的家常菜，还有低于市场价格售卖的惠民菜，比如大白菜每斤售价2.3元、土豆每斤2.1元、白萝卜每斤1.2元……很有意思，线下菜站的营收从最初只有几百元，慢慢涨至上万元。
Besides some inexpensive home-cooked dishes, there are also Huimin dishes that are sold at below-market prices, such as cabbage (2.3 yuan per catty), potatoes (2.1 yuan per catty) and radishes (1.2 yuan per catty).
与此同时，我们还开通了线上买菜的小程序，当用户逐步感受到无接触送菜的便利，纷纷通过微信群、朋友圈传播告知更多的用户，我们的客源不断扩大。
At the same time, we also opened a small online shopping program, when the user gradually feel no contact with the convenience of food delivery, through micro-groups, friends and the dissemination of more users, our customer base continues to expand.
目前，线下便民菜站最高日营收能够达到7万多元，日平均营收3万元左右。
At present, the online convenience food station can reach the highest daily income of more than 70,000 yuan, average daily revenue of about 30,000 yuan.
另一方面，主攻外卖也成为我们当下的必然选择。
On the other hand, the main attack on take-out has become our current inevitable choice.
为了让消费者放心，我们从安全角度出发，进一步优化外卖流程。
In order to reassure consumers, we further optimize the delivery process from a safety perspective.
比如增加了前置外卖取餐处，外卖人员尽量不进入店堂内；来取餐的外卖人员也要取餐消毒、测体温，打包人员更是要测温度、戴手套、口罩，并做好餐具的消毒工作等。
For example, front take-out areas have been added and take-out staff have been kept away from the store; take-out staff have been asked to collect meals and take temperature measurements, while staff have been asked to measure temperature, wear gloves, face masks and disinfect cutlery.
目前，我们的外卖营收在整体营收中的占比已高达80%。
At present, our take-out sales revenue in the overall revenue share has been as high as 80%.
我们也与部分零售企业达成合作，采用“共享员工”和中央厨房的模式，让我们的员工在我们的中央厨房为零售企业提供分拣、初加工、打包等工作，这样能够避免我们的员工外出，降低员工感染的风险。
We have also worked with some retail companies to adopt a "shared staff" and central kitchen model, where our employees provide sorting, pre-processing and packaging for retail businesses in our central kitchen, thus preventing our employees from going out and reducing the risk of infection.
现在我们每天给零售企业打包生鲜时蔬超过10万包。
Now we pack more than 100, 000 packets of fresh vegetables for retail businesses every day.
值得一提的是，一些商机的出现让我更坚定自己做的事。
It is worth mentioning that the emergence of some business opportunities let me more firmly do things.
早期我们要求营业店面的员工到社区、派出所、街道处等地免费送餐，大家知道我们做这件事，非常感动，后续开始根据自己的需求大规模订餐：20份、50份、200份……我们把爱送出去了，同样也收获了更多人的爱。
In the early days, we asked our store staff to send food to communities, police stations, streets and so on. We were very moved to do this, and then began to order large-scale meals according to our own needs: 20, 50, 200.
其实真没想过要用这种方式去赚钱，但商机往往就在这种时候出现，3、转型战：餐饮食品化新途防疫战和经营战仍在持续，随着更多企业复工，我们的工作也进入到新的发展阶段，一定要抓好这个窗口期。
In fact, I have never thought of making money in this way, but business opportunities often come at such a time. 3, transformation war: new way of catering food epidemic prevention and business war continues, as more enterprises resume work, our work has also entered a new stage of development, we must grasp this window period.
要想打好转型战，首先就需要更多的资金支持。
More financial support is needed if the transition war is to be successful.
实话说，前期银行的支持比较有限，最多就是允许你延期还款，稍微好点的会基于之前的业务往来，追加少量贷款资金，但这对于我们现金流吃紧问题的解决，无异于杯水车薪。
To be honest, front-end bank support is more limited, at best to allow you to defer repayment, slightly better based on previous transactions, a small amount of loan funds, but this for our cash flow problem solution, is no different.
值得庆幸的是，国家也看到了我们的困难，各地纷纷出台针对中小企业的扶助措施，其中涉及减免税费、租金，解决困难企业融资问题等内容。
Fortunately, the country has also recognized our difficulties, with a number of local support measures for small and medium-sized enterprises, including tax relief, rent relief and the resolution of difficult enterprise financing issues.
我们公司所在城市下发扶持政策的当天，我就接到了所在地商务局相关负责人、多家商业银行、融资担保公司等机构负责人打来的电话，对方详细了解了我们在资金上的难题，并表示愿意提供相关资金支持。
On the day of our company's policy of support, I received telephone calls from the relevant officials of the local commercial bureau, heads of commercial banks, financing guarantee companies, etc., who provided detailed information on our financial difficulties and offered financial support.
截至目前，我们已经得到来自光大银行、北京银行，浦发银行、农业银行、中信银行、民生银行、华夏银行等多家银行的贷款资金支持和贷款批复。
So far, we have received loan fund support and loan approval from Everbright Bank, Bank of Beijing, Pudong Bank, Agricultural Bank, Citic Bank, Minsheng Bank, Huaxia Bank, etc.
彼时，我有一个很深刻的感受，那就是只要做好自己该做的事，很多难题自然会迎刃而解。
At that time, I had a very deep feeling that as long as you do your job well, many difficult problems will be solved.
我们缺钱，银行愿意放贷，但这前提是你确实努力参与到抗疫工作中，努力让自己活下去。
We are short of money and banks are willing to lend, but only if you really try to participate in the fight against the epidemic and try to keep yourself alive.
毕竟，如果银行看不到你有正常营业的能力和未来发展的可持续性，是不可能放心把钱交到你手中的。
After all, banks cannot trust you with money if they do not see your ability to do business properly and develop sustainably in the future.
资金到位，基于前期的规划，我们继续拓展渠道和产品。
Funds available, based on the pre-planning, we continue to expand channels and products.
近期，我们与一家大型连锁超市合作，将4家新店开进了超市内，每家店大概 20-30平米，以销售“半成品”为主。
We recently teamed up with a major supermarket chain to bring four new stores into the supermarket, each about 20-30 square meters, to sell "semi-finished products."
前期调研中我们发现，消费者对自热饭盒、自热火锅、熟食类等半成品需求量很大，于是我们结合自己的优势，将半成品拿到超市去销售。
In previous studies, we found that consumers of self-heating boxes, self-heating hot pot, cooked food and other semi-finished products demand, so we combine their advantages, semi-finished products to the supermarket to sell.
同时，进行产品的再组合，比如针对宫保鸡丁，我们将鸡丁配上花生米、葱，做成半成品，并写上制作流程，客人购买后回家进行简单翻炒，便可食用。
At the same time, the product combination, such as the palace chicken, we will chicken with peanut rice, onion, made into semi-finished products, and write down the production process, guests back home after a simple stir-fry can be eaten.
这其实也是未来餐饮行业的发展方向——餐饮食品化。
This is also the future direction of the catering industry - food and beverage.
另外，近年比较火热的直播也充分应用到我们的销售渠道中，就连我自己，也在尝试做直播。
In addition, the relatively hot live broadcast in recent years has been fully applied to our sales channels, even myself, also trying to do live broadcast.
比如我们在天猫旗舰店等渠道上做直播，大厨在元宵节通过直播间教粉丝做汤圆，之后多次试水“云做菜”等等，均间接推动了我们的食品销售。
For example, we live in the flagship store of Tiantas, the chef in the Lantern Festival through direct teaching fans to make dumplings, and then repeatedly test water "cloud cooking," and so on, indirectly promoted our food sales.
在天猫近期举办的某活动中，从2月17日0点至晚上7点，我们旗舰店的销售额较去年同期增长1400%。
At a recent event held by Tiantas, sales at our flagship store increased by 1,400% from 0 p.m. to 7 p.m. on February 17 compared with the same period last year.
很多人问我，在这次疫情中学到什么？我觉得是学会了如何防御和自救，在此过程中还锻炼了队伍，练就了团队在逆境中的生存和创新能力。
Many people have asked me what I have learned from the epidemic. I feel I have learned how to defend and save myself, and in the process have trained teams to survive and innovate in the face of adversity.
表面上我们的确亏了钱，但我们赢得了员工的凝聚力和社会的认可，这是比金钱更有价值的东西。
On the surface, we did lose money, but we won staff cohesion and social recognition, which is more valuable than money.
很多餐饮企业负责人后来告诉我，终于明白我前期的“执拗”，并为我和所有的员工点赞。
Many catering enterprises later told me, finally understand my early "stubborn", and for me and all the staff praise.
一句话，当上天为我们关上一扇窗，我们就要为自己修出一条路。
In short, when God closes a window for us, we have to build a road for ourselves.
（《财经》实习生麻钟元对本文亦有贡献）▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
(Caijing intern Ma Zhongyuan has also contributed to this article) Updated: 2009-03-15 10: 48: 00: 00xcn.com This article is an original article by Caijing magazine and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
餐饮老板抗疫三战：从线下零收入，到线上增长14倍。
Catering boss three battle against the epidemic: zero income from the line, to the line of 14 times growth.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "餐饮老板抗疫三战：从线下零收入，到线上增长14倍";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "从疫情中逆势营业遭质疑，到免费送餐获大规模订购，再到自救中发现餐饮食品化的转型新路，在这位餐饮老板眼中，疫情一度令其遭受巨大经济损失，也练就了团队在逆境中的生存和创新能力";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
