武汉居民隔窗喊话举报，如何破解疫情防控中的形式主义。
Wuhan residents through the window to report, how to crack the disease in the form of prevention and control.
刘杰。
Liu Jie.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
形式主义的危害性在本次疫情防控中充分暴露出来，中央提出的“分类指导、分区施策”的方针，不仅对解决本次疫情防控具有重要的指导意义，而且对解决常态下的形式主义也有重要意义编者按居民隔窗向中央指导组举报,揭露了全民“抗疫”中一些地方的形式主义和官僚主义。
The harm of formalism is fully exposed in the prevention and control of this epidemic. The policy of "classification guidance and zoning" put forward by the central government is of great significance not only to solve the epidemic prevention and control, but also to solve the formalism under normal conditions.
新华社报道，3月5日上午有关中央指导组在武汉市青山区翠园社区开元公馆小区考察，有居民从家里的窗户向指导组喊话：“假的，假的！”“形式主义！”针对群众现场反映的困难和问题，孙春兰立即要求省、市领导深入调查，不回避矛盾，杜绝形式主义、官僚主义。
On the morning of March 5, a group of residents from the Qingshan district of Wuhan's Qingshan District called to the guidance group: "False, false!" "Formalism!"
的确，在这次全民抗议中，涌现出众多党员干部、医务工作者、志愿者，他们选择“逆行”，走向抗击疫情的第一线，成为真正的战“疫”英雄。
Indeed, many Party cadres, medical workers and volunteers emerged in the course of the national protest, choosing to "go backwards" to the frontline of the fight against the epidemic and become true heroes of the "epidemic."
但是，有部分地方在疫情防控中也暴露出一定的形式主义、官僚主义、粗暴主义等问题，严重影响国家疫情防控大局。
However, some parts of the epidemic prevention and control also exposed a certain formalism, bureaucracy, rudeness and other issues, seriously affect the overall situation of national epidemic prevention and control.
有的地方粗暴断路、对企业复工采取“一刀切”的禁止；有的地方以文件落实文件,口号喊得震天响、行动起来轻飘飘；有的地方把帮助民众防疫搞成了精准填表，用纸面数字摸底排查；有的地方一点小事也要层层请示汇报，看似规范实则不愿担当。
Some places cut short roads and impose a one-size-fits-all ban on returning to work; others use documents to implement documents, slogans shout loudly and move lightly; some place to help people vaccinate accurately, use paper figures to check out; some places also have little things to report layer upon layer, seemingly norms do not bear.
因此，我们要警惕本次疫情防控中暴露的形式主义危害性。
Therefore, we should be alert to the harm of formalism exposed in the prevention and control of this epidemic.
杜绝疫情防控中的形式主义、官僚主义,事关疫情防控阻击战的决胜战局。
To put an end to formalism and bureaucracy in epidemic prevention and control is related to the decisive battle of disease prevention and control.
中央提出“分类指导、分区施策”的方针，不仅对解决本次疫情防控具有重要的指导意义，而且对解决中国一段时间以来常态下的形式主义也有重要意义。
The policy of "classification guidance and zoning" put forward by the central government is of great significance not only to solve the epidemic prevention and control, but also to solve the formalism in China for a long time.
如果说抗击新冠病毒是一场“歼灭战”，那么抗击形式主义病毒则是一场“持久战”。
If fighting the New Crown Virus is a "war of annihilation," the fight against the formalist virus is a "protracted war."
文 | 刘杰习近平总书记高度重视疫情防控中暴露出的形式主义问题，2月3日提出，“要坚决反对形式主义、官僚主义，让基层干部把更多精力投入到疫情防控第一线。
"We must resolutely oppose formalism and bureaucracy, and let grass-roots cadres put more effort into the front line of epidemic prevention and control," Secretary-General Liu Jieping said on February 3.
”部分地方在新冠肺炎疫情防控中暴露出的一些形式主义问题，一定程度影响了国家疫情防控大局。
"Some places in the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic exposed in the prevention and control of some formalism, to a certain extent affected the overall situation of national epidemic prevention and control.
一是应急措施的“一刀切”主义。
One is the one-size-fits-all approach to emergency response.
也叫机械主义，生搬硬套、急功近利，并常演化为“粗暴主义”。
Also known as mechanismism, hardball, quick wins, and often evolves into "rudeness."
危机处置最有效的手段是危机切割，在传染病防控中更是如此。
The most effective means of crisis management is crisis cutting, especially in infectious disease control.
自中央决定武汉封城以后，多地粗暴地采取断路、封锁等简单的拒绝方式，而不是采取收容的方式，让大量流向外地的武汉人和有接触史的人无处安身，既缺少基本的人文关怀，也加剧了疫情传染风险。
Since the central government decided to ban Wuhan, many of them have rudely refused to accept Wuhan as a way of cutting off roads and blockades instead of accepting them, leaving Wuhan people and those with contact with the country without shelter, lacking basic humanitarian care and increasing the risk of epidemic spread.
部分地方简单采取“一封了之”“一关了之”的防控措施，导致应急物资生产企业招不到工、进不了原材料，严重影响疫情防控的物资保障，甚至部分地方生活物资供应也得不到保障，影响社会稳定。
In some places, the simple adoption of a "one-off" and "one-off" prevention and control measures has resulted in emergency material production enterprises being unable to recruit workers and raw materials, seriously affecting the material security of epidemic prevention and control, and even the supply of supplies to some local areas, affecting social stability.
“一刀切”主义的背后是懒政、惰政，不是以“方便群众”为出发点，而是以“方便自己管理”为出发点，以自己如何“省事、省心、省力”为原则。
Behind the "one-size-fits-all" doctrine is lazy administration, inert administration, not to "convenience for the masses" as the starting point, but to "facilitate their own management" as the starting point, how to "save trouble, worry, labor" as a principle.
对于常态下“一刀切”导致的各类社会冲突与矛盾“一压了之”，相关舆情采取“一删了之”“一封了之”。
For the normal "one size fits all" caused by various types of social conflicts and contradictions "one size fits all", the relevant public opinion adopted "one deleted it."
而在疫情或危机状态，“一刀切”演变成的简单粗暴，直接加大了疫情传播的风险和危机冲击。
In an epidemic or crisis situation, "one size fits all" becomes simple and crude, directly increasing the risk and impact of the epidemic.
二是应急组织的松散主义。
The second is the loosening of emergency response organizations.
面对疫情，重点疫区政府没能第一时间成立结构合理的疫情防控指挥体系，统一领导和指挥疫情防控工作。
In the face of the epidemic, the governments of key affected areas failed to establish a well-structured epidemic prevention and control command system in the first place.
存在综合协调不力、组织机构不精干、指挥链条过长、中间环节过多，不能实现靠前指挥、一线调度和无缝对接等问题，导致应急响应初期疫情防控效率低下，顾此失彼。
There are some problems, such as lack of comprehensive coordination, lean organization, long chain of command, too many intermediate links, unable to achieve forward command, first-line control and seamless docking.
例如，疫情重灾区的防疫物资调拨和分配不畅，特别是社会参与协调功能瘫痪，社会参与无序，甚至社会捐赠分配混乱，不仅影响疫情防控，而且加剧社会焦虑。
For example, the poor allocation and distribution of epidemic prevention materials in the most affected areas, especially the paralysis of social participation and coordination, disorderly social participation and even chaotic distribution of social donations, not only affect disease prevention and control, but also exacerbate social anxiety.
三是指挥程序的多头主义。
The third is the long doctrine of the command procedure.
多头指挥让基层工作人员无所适从，数据多头报送，效果多头督查，降低了防控疫情的工作效率。
Long command let grass-roots staff confused, data long report, the effect of long supervision, reduce the efficiency of disease prevention and control.
各级政府几十个部门指导抗疫的文件和表格都涌向基层，形成发文抗“疫”和填表抗“疫”之势。
Dozens of government departments at all levels to guide the fight against the epidemic documents and forms have poured to the grass-roots level, forming the anti-epidemic "epidemic" and filling in the anti-" epidemic "trend.
忙于填写这些大多雷同的“文件”与“表格”，使得基层单位不堪重负，没有更多精力倾听、回应群众诉求。
Busy filling out most of the same "documents" and "forms," so that the grass-roots units are overwhelmed, there is no more energy to listen and respond to the demands of the masses.
四是指挥手段的面对面主义。
Fourth, the face-to-face principle of command.
信息化手段运用不足，把会议作为应急指挥中传达精神、部署工作的主要手段，以会议贯彻会议，层层开会，会议抗“疫”。
Insufficient use of information technology, the meeting as the spirit of emergency command, deployment of the main means to follow up the meeting, layer upon layer, the Conference against "epidemic."
指挥人员不在现场在会场，慷慨激昂念稿子，长篇大论读文件，虚对虚地谈方案，浪费一线工作与战斗人员大量的时间与精力。
Commanders were not present at the conference venue, reading manuscripts in an impassioned manner, reading papers at length and talking empty-handed about programmes, wasting front-line work and a great deal of time and energy of combatants.
疫情防控指挥的信息化手段运用不足，部分地方没能较好运用大数据准确识别和隔离危险人群，导致疫情在一定范围内扩散，给防疫造成重大挑战。
The insufficient use of information technology in epidemic prevention and control and the failure of some places to use large data to accurately identify and isolate dangerous populations have led to the spread of the epidemic within certain limits, posing a major challenge to epidemic prevention.
五是危机沟通的本本主义。
Fifth, the principle of crisis communication.
突发事件当中，公众关切多，各类传言、流言也比较多，需要政府快速有效沟通。
During emergencies, the public is concerned about many kinds of rumors and rumors are also more, requiring the Government to communicate quickly and effectively.
但通常的情况是“当真理还在穿鞋的时候，谣言已经光着脚跑出去了”。
But as is often the case, "while the truth is still shod, the rumor has gone out barefoot."
一方面，突发事件中，特别是公共卫生事件中，需要公众知情、表达、参与和监督，但部分地方平时透明度低，公众关切点、信息盲点多，易形成突发事件信息公开“堰塞湖”，地方领导干部不易在危机沟通前找到公众的核心关切，经常准备不足，仓促上阵。
On the one hand, public information, expression, participation and supervision are needed in emergencies, especially in public health incidents. However, in some places, transparency is low in peacetime, public concerns and information blind spots abound.
另一方面，部分地方领导干部善于常态下的仪式主义，养成了照本宣科的习惯，不能在危机状态下有效沟通，面对媒体，不能从有关灾情信息、个人表情与姿态上给公众传递信息和信心，降低了公众对地方政府和领导干部的信任与信心。
On the other hand, some local leading cadres are good at ritual under normal conditions, have formed the habit of following the book, can not communicate effectively in crisis situations, can not convey information and confidence to the public from disaster information, personal expressions and gestures, and have reduced public trust and confidence in local governments and leading cadres.
这些形式主义，有老问题，也有新表现，其实“看似新表现，实则老问题”。
These formalism, there are old problems, there are new performance, in fact, "new performance, is actually an old problem."
常态下的形式主义导致干部管理能力弱化，直接导致应急无能主义，不能充分利用本地资源进行危机预防、初期响应，在响应升级后，也没能力有序接受国家力量支援和社会力量参与。
Formalism under normal conditions leads to the weakening of cadre management ability, which leads to emergency incompetence, does not make full use of local resources for crisis prevention and initial response, and fails to accept the support of state forces and social forces in an orderly manner.
习近平总书记在2月12日又提出，“要求各级党委和政府要按照党中央决策部署，突出重点、统筹兼顾，分类指导、分区施策，切实把各项工作抓实、抓细、抓落地，坚决打赢疫情防控的人民战争、总体战、阻击战，努力实现今年经济社会发展目标任务”。
"The Party committee and the government at all levels should be required to plan according to the Party's central government's decision-making, give priority attention, give overall consideration, give classified guidance and make decisions at all levels," Xi said on February 12.
分类指导、分区施策为解决当前疫情防控中的形式主义，并为破解一段时间以来我国存在的形式主义顽疾提供了指导。
Classification guidance and zoning strategy provide guidance for solving the formalism in current epidemic prevention and control, and for solving the problem of formalism in China for some time.
当前的疫情防控工作既有提高收治率、治愈率、降低病亡率的应急处置重点，也有加大诊疗方案、药物和疫苗科研攻关力度的应急支援重点；既有加强社区防控、返程人员的健康监测、切断疾病传播途径、降低感染率的应急防范重点，还有医疗防护物资供应的应急保障重点，此外还要做好群众生活必需品生产供应工作。
The current epidemic prevention and control efforts focus not only on improving the acceptance rate, cure rate and reducing the mortality rate, but also on strengthening emergency support measures to strengthen community control, health monitoring of returning personnel, cutting off disease transmission routes, reducing infection rates, and providing emergency medical supplies.
在抓好疫情防控的同时，也要认识到，经济工作仍是基础，不能错过当前的春耕备耕关键时节，更不能让大量中小企业倒闭，造成通货膨胀、失业、经济增长和国际收支失衡等严重宏观经济问题。
While keeping the disease under control, we should also recognize that economic work remains fundamental and that the current critical period of spring ploughing should not be missed, not to mention the failure of a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises, causing serious macroeconomic problems such as inflation, unemployment, economic growth and balance-of-payments imbalances.
为防止疫情防控中的形式主义，需要进行分类指导，防止疫情防控中的“一刀切”主义。
In order to prevent the formalism in epidemic prevention and control, it is necessary to classify and guide to prevent the "one-size-fits-all" principle in disease control.
分类指导不是分类指令，更不是分类计划，而是通过调动各方面积极性，从自身部门和行业的实际情况出发，制定政策、方案和措施，解决疫情防控中各部门、各行业的唯上主义。
Classification guidance is not a classification directive, much less a classification plan. Rather, it aims to develop policies, programmes and measures to address sector- and industry-specific epistemology in the prevention and control of the epidemic by mobilizing the initiative of all sectors and industries.
当前的疫情发展态势，既有重疫区，也有轻疫区；既有劳动力输出区，也有劳动力接收区。
At present, there are both severe and light epidemics in the epidemic area; there are both labor-exporting and labor-receiving areas.
为防止疫情防控中的唯上主义、“一刀切”主义等形式主义，中央明确要求“以县域为单元，确定不同县域风险等级，分区分级制定差异化防控策略”。
In order to prevent epistemology, "one-size-fits-all" formalism in disease prevention and control, the central government explicitly demands "to use county as a unit to determine risk levels in different counties and to formulate differentiated prevention and control strategies at different levels."
各级党委和政府要实事求是做好防控工作，对偏颇和极端做法要及时纠正，不搞简单化的一关了之、一停了之，尽可能减少疫情防控对群众生产生活的影响。
Party committees and governments at all levels should do a good job of prevention and control on the facts, to correct biased and extreme practices in a timely manner, and not to simplify a shutdown, stop it, so as to minimize the impact of epidemic prevention and control on people's lives and production.
形式主义的危害性在本次疫情防控中充分暴露出来，中央提出的“分类指导、分区施策”的方针，不仅对解决本次疫情防控具有重要的指导意义，而且对解决我国一段时间以来常态下的形式主义也有重要意义。
The harm of formalism is fully exposed in the prevention and control of this epidemic. The policy of "classification guidance and zoning" put forward by the central government is of great significance not only for solving the epidemic prevention and control, but also for solving the formalism under normal circumstances in China for some time.
精准扶贫中的“数字脱贫”、“美丽乡村”建设中的同质化、治理畜禽养殖污染的极端化、不同类型高校学术考评机制的单一化等都是形式主义的不同表现，这些形式主义的根源就是不能“实事求是”，偏离了“分类指导、分区施策”的轨道。
"Digital poverty alleviation" in precise poverty alleviation, homogenization in "beautiful countryside" construction, extreme pollution control of livestock and poultry farming, and simplification of academic evaluation mechanism of different types of universities are all different manifestations of formalism.
形式主义是我们党的大敌、人民的大敌。
Formalism is the enemy of our Party and the enemy of the people.
如果说抗击新冠病毒是一场“歼灭战”，那么抗击形式主义病毒则是一场“持久战”。
If fighting the New Crown Virus is a "war of annihilation," the fight against the formalist virus is a "protracted war."
（作者为中共中央党校（国家行政学院）博士后；编辑：王延春）（本文首刊于2020年3月2日出版的《财经》杂志）▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
(The writer is a postdoctoral student at the Central Party School (National School of Administration); editor: Wang Yanchun. This article was first published in Caijing on March 2, 2020. This article is an original article by Caijing magazine.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉居民隔窗喊话举报，如何破解疫情防控中的形式主义。
Wuhan residents through the window to report, how to crack the disease in the form of prevention and control.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉居民隔窗喊话举报，如何破解疫情防控中的形式主义";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; in disease prevention and control.
var msg_desc = "形式主义的危害性在本次疫情防控中充分暴露出来，中央提出的“分类指导、分区施策”的方针，不仅对解决本次疫情防控";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
