从2万/吨到40万/吨，口罩核心原材料熔喷布价格飞涨之谜。
From 20,000 tons per ton to 400,000 tons per ton, the price of the core raw materials for masks has skyrocketed.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 读数一帜。
The following article comes from the reading is unique.
Author 杨秀红 等。
Author Yang Xiuhong etc.
读数一帜。
The reading is unique.
读数一帜由《财经》杂志资本证券组创建。
The first reading was created by Caijing Capital Securities Group.
数说资本故事，解读财富密码。
Count capital stories and decipher the code of wealth.
。
.
从2万/吨到40万/吨，短短一个多月的时间，口罩“心脏”熔喷布价格已经上涨近20倍。
In just over a month, from 20,000 tonnes to 400,000 tonnes, the price of the mask's "heart" has risen nearly 20-fold.
分析认为，熔喷布产能和口罩产能阶段性不匹配是涨价主因文 |《财经》记者 杨秀红 张建锋 王颖 陆玲 | 编辑被称为口罩“心脏”的核心原材料熔喷布价格再度飞涨，几天之内价格翻倍。
The analysis found that the initial mismatch between production capacity and mask capacity was the main reason for the rise in prices. Caijing reporter Yang Xiuhong Zhang Jianfeng Wang Ying Lu Ling; Editing the core raw material, known as the heart of a mask, has soared again, doubling in price within days.
《财经》记者近日了解到，继2月底价格涨至20多万元/吨左右之后，时隔几天，熔喷布报价几乎已经翻倍，达到40万元/吨左右。
Caijing recently learned that after prices rose to more than 200,000 yuan per ton at the end of February, the price of melts almost doubled to about 400,000 yuan per ton a few days later.
而在疫情之前，熔喷布的市场价格仅为1.8万元/吨。
Before the outbreak, the market price of melts was only 18,000 yuan per ton.
从1月24日武汉封城至今，短短一个多月的时间，熔喷布价格已经上涨近20倍。
From the January 24 closure of Wuhan to the present, a short period of more than a month, the melt-jet price has increased nearly 20 times.
“没现货了”、“订单都排满了”，这是《财经》记者以买家身份咨询熔喷布供应商听到最多的回复。
"We're out of stock" and "Orders are full," said Caijing, who received the most replies as a buyer to its supplier of Fun Jet.
“我们已经停止接单了，根本供应不过来。
"We've stopped receiving orders and we can't supply them at all.
”一家北京熔喷布生产商刘峰（化名）对《财经》记者表示，从疫情前的近2万元/吨，涨至现在的40多万元/吨，现在“一天一个价”，涨幅之大，令他始料未及。
Liu Feng (not his real name), a Beijing manufacturer of jet fabric, told Caijing that the rise from nearly 20,000 yuan a tonne before the outbreak to more than 400,000 yuan a tonne a day has surged more than he had expected.
熔喷布为何如此紧缺？“熔喷布产能和口罩产能阶段性不匹配是涨价主因。
"Melting cloth production capacity and mask production phase mismatch is the main reason for price increases.
”业内资深专家对《财经》记者表示。
Industry experts told Caijing.
刘峰也认为，“供求关系是此轮熔喷布价格飞涨的关键因素之一。
Liu also believes that "the supply and demand relationship is one of the key factors in this round of soaring prices.
”疫情之前，熔喷布足够用，口罩需求小导致国内熔喷布产量本来就少。
Before the outbreak, there was enough spray cloth, and low demand for masks led to low domestic production.
疫情发生后，许多企业纷纷扩产、转产生产口罩，核心原料熔喷布用量激增，生产企业难以招架，造成缺口。
After the outbreak of the epidemic, many enterprises have expanded production, production of masks, core raw materials use surged, production enterprises find it difficult to fight, resulting in gaps.
与此同时，中间商层层加价倒手、囤积居奇，更加剧了供求关系的紧张。
At the same time, middlemen add layers of price, hoarding and accumulation of strange, exacerbated the tension between supply and demand.
此外，随着近期国际疫情升级，市场对口罩的需求仍有增无减，需求大幅增加也导致核心原材料的持续紧缺。
In addition, with the recent escalation of the international epidemic, market demand for masks has continued unabated, and the significant increase in demand has led to continued shortages of core raw materials.
除上述因素外，熔喷布生产设备造价昂贵、生产线建设和调试周期长等，均被视为制约熔喷布产能的重要因素。
In addition to the above-mentioned factors, melt-jet production equipment is expensive, production line construction and debugging cycle is considered as an important factor restricting production capacity.
另外，盲目扩产，是否会导致疫情结束后的产能过剩，也令一些熔喷布厂商担忧，不敢贸然大幅扩产。
In addition, blind expansion, whether the end of the epidemic will lead to overcapacity, so that some manufacturers worried about spray, dare not rush to expand production.
面对熔喷布的紧缺，目前已有多家企业新增了熔喷布生产线。
Facing the shortage of spray cloth, many enterprises have added a new production line.
其中，央企中国石化于2月24日决定，投资约2亿元，速上10条熔喷布生产线，这将增加熔喷布日产能18吨。
On Feb. 24, Sinopec, the central Chinese petrochemical company, decided to invest about 200 million yuan to speed up 10 production lines, which will increase its production capacity by 18 tons per day.
其中，北京燕山石化将建设2条熔喷布生产线，预计3月8日左右投产。
Among them, Beijing Yanshan Petrochemical Company will build 2 melt-jet production lines, is expected to start production around March 8.
前述业内专家预计，3月以后，熔喷布市场供应紧张会逐步缓解。
Industry experts predicted that after March, the melt-jet market will gradually ease the supply constraints.
一是国内熔喷布产能持续增加，二是海外进口陆续到货。
The first is the continuous increase in domestic production capacity, and the second is the arrival of overseas imports.
部分地方政府亦出台了扶持政策，帮助联系设备和原材料采购事宜，对定点熔喷布生产企业的设备采购成本、人工成本给予资金补贴。
Some local governments have also put in place supportive policies to assist in the procurement of equipment and raw materials, and to subsidize the purchase of equipment and labour costs for targeted smelter production enterprises.
出面协调贷款，满足企业的流动资金需求。
Coordination of loans to meet the enterprise's liquidity needs.
对符合要求的防疫物资，政府予以兜底采购，作为战略物资储备。
The government shall purchase epidemic prevention materials to meet the requirements as a strategic goods reserve.
需求激增、售价猛涨，资本市场也随之反应。
Capital markets reacted to surging demand and soaring prices.
泰达股份（000625.SZ）、道恩股份（002838.SZ）、欣龙控股、搜于特等多只熔喷布概念股持续火爆。
Taida shares (000625.SZ), Dawn shares (002838.SZ), Xinlong Holdings, search at the Principal more than the concept of hot spray.
其中道恩股份累计涨幅达286.82％遥遥领先。
Dow Jones shares rose 286.82 percent of the cumulative lead.
价格飞涨20倍熔喷布是口罩中间过滤层的主要原料，被称为口罩的“心脏”，主要隔离飞沫、颗粒物等。
Price soaring by 20 times is the mask between the main ingredients of the filter layer, known as the "heart" mask, mainly to isolate droplets, particles, and so on.
口罩一般有三层防护层，外层、内层和中间层。
Masks typically have three layers of protection, outer, inner and middle.
内外层均采用普通的符合医卫标准的纺粘无纺布，而中间层采用熔喷布，是过滤防护的关键。
The inner and outer layers all adopt the normal spinning and non-woven cloth which meet the medical standards, and the middle layer adopts the melting spray cloth.
在庞大的需求下，熔喷布价格正不断飞涨。
Under the huge demand, the melting pot price is soaring.
“目前没有现货，我们的订单已经排到了六月份。
"We don't have it in stock at the moment. Our order is in June.
”刘峰表示。
Mr Liu said.
另有熔喷布中间商开价42万，面对记者关于“高价”的质疑，其表示：“你自己看吧，如果你今天不要，马上就卖给别人了。
"You can see for yourself that if you don't want it today, you'll be selling it to someone else right away," he said in response to a reporter's query about "high prices.
”在多个熔喷布集采微信群中，熔喷布最近几天的报价已经被炒到40万元左右。
Among the multiplex microphone clusters, the price of the melt-jet fabric has been fired for about 400,000 yuan in recent days.
一家浙江贸易公司提供从德国进口的BFE99型号医用熔喷布，25g/平方，报价为40万元/吨；另一个从福建发货的卖家，则报价43万元/吨；还有一家自称有20吨现货的卖家，报价40万/吨；一些企业则坚持“只换不卖”，其中一家给出的方案为，一吨医用95级别熔喷布换20万只一次性医用外科口罩。
A Zhejiang trading company offered BFE99 model medical spray cloth imported from Germany at a price of 400,000 yuan per ton; another seller from Fujian offered 430,000 yuan per ton; another claimed to have 20 tons in stock, offering 400,000 per ton; and one insisted on "no selling," with one offering a ton of 95-grade medical spray for 200,000 disposable medical surgical masks.
尽管如此，群内仍不断有人在寻找熔喷布货源。
Still, there are persistent attempts to find a source of fusible fabric within the group.
1月28日，人民日报客户端援引的消息称，据当地企业介绍，口罩专用过滤材料熔喷布的市场价格原来为1.8万元/吨。
On January 28, the People's Daily client quoted a local company as saying that the market price for a special mask filter material was 18,000 yuan per ton.
以此计算，在1月24日武汉宣布封城后的一个多月时间内，熔喷布价格上涨了近20倍。
By this measure, in the more than a month since Wuhan announced the city's closure on January 24, the price of melts has risen nearly 20-fold.
一家位于东莞的小口罩厂商，其负责人林非（化名）更加真切地感受到了原材料熔喷布的暴涨。
Lin Fei (not his real name), the head of a small mask manufacturer in Dongguan, is feeling the surge in raw materials.
他表示，疫情前一般2万元/吨，春节前后开始翻倍涨到4万/吨，紧接着一路猛涨至一周前20-30万/吨，再到现在的40多万元/吨，现在“一天一个价”。
Before the outbreak, he said, 20,000 yuan a ton, around the Spring Festival began to double to 40,000 tons, immediately followed by a sharp rise to a week ago 200,000-300,000 tons, now more than 400,000 yuan / ton, now "a price a day.
短短一个月内，暴涨20倍，涨幅之大，令他始料未及。
Within a month, it had soared 20-fold, more than he had expected.
原材料价格飞涨，令一些中小口罩厂商面临“无米下锅”的窘境。
Raw materials prices skyrocket, so that some small and medium-sized mask manufacturers face the "rice-free pot" predicament.
“即使这么贵，还是买不到。
"You can't buy it, even if it's so expensive.
”林非称，现在熔喷布已经“一布难求”，大口罩企业原料自有政府部门出面协调，小企业则快“断粮”了。
Lin said that now "a cloth difficult to find," large mask business raw materials have their own government-coordinated, small enterprises are fast "food.
过去他通常从河南、湖北、浙江等地进货，但现在像熔喷布这类战略物资都优先保证当地使用，外地人很难买到，“现在只能托熟人进货，四处求人。
In the past he used to buy goods from Henan, Hubei, Zhejiang, etc., but now strategic goods such as lava dusting are preferred for local use.
”他表示，这也导致了市面上很多口罩机闲置。
He says this has also led to many mask machines sitting idle.
多家熔喷布国内生产商告诉《财经》记者，疫情期间，大型生产厂基本被政府管控，产品由政府统一收购，或销售给指定的口罩生产企业，无法对外销售。
A number of domestic manufacturers told Caijing that during the outbreak, large factories were largely controlled by the government, and the products were bought by the government or sold to designated mask-producing companies and could not be sold abroad.
“工厂有武警驻守，我们已经把外地客户的订单全给推了，产品主要服务于本地企业，平价销售，大概10万元/吨，跟外面市场上价格差很多，政府会有一定补贴。
"The factory is manned by armed police and we have pushed out orders from customers outside the factory. The products are mainly for local businesses, selling at a nominal price of about 100,000 yuan per ton.
”一家位于上海的熔喷布定点生产企业表示。
"said a Shanghai-based production company specializing in melt-jet fabric.
据了解，国内熔喷布的生产整体呈现出小而散的局面。
It is understood that the domestic production of molten cloth as a whole shows a small and scattered situation.
目前国内熔喷布产量较高的企业包括山东俊富无纺布有限公司（下称山东俊富）、天津泰达洁净材料有限公司、欣龙控股（000955.SZ）等。
At present, the domestic enterprises with high production include Shandong Junfu Nonwoven Co. Ltd. (Shandong Junfu), Tianjin Teda Clean Materials Co. Ltd. and Xinlong Holdings (000955.SZ).
龙头企业日产能力多在 7 吨到 15吨。
Most of the leading enterprises in the daily capacity of 7 to 15 tons.
山东俊富的一名工作人员在接受《财经》记者采访时表示，目前公司的面罩用材料熔喷布日产量为15吨，是国内最大熔喷布生产商。
In an interview with Caijing, a staff member of Shandong Junfu told Caijing News that the company's mask-mask production of 15 tons a day, is the largest domestic manufacturers of spray cloth.
公司目前现拥有7条熔喷生产线。
The company now has 7 fusible jet production lines.
原料缘何紧缺熔喷布产能和口罩产能阶段性不匹配，被业内专家认为是此次熔喷布涨价的主因。
Raw materials why the shortage of jet production capacity and mask production phase mismatch, is considered by industry experts is the main reason for the increase in spray fabric prices.
此次疫情发生前，国内熔喷布产能内熔喷无纺布较为小众。
Before the outbreak, domestic production capacity of melt spraying non-woven fabric is relatively small.
根据中国产业用纺织品行业协会的数据测算，2018年我国熔喷无纺布产量约为5.34万吨，每日产量约146吨。
According to the data of the China Industry Textile Industry Association, the production of melt-blown nonwoven fabric in 2018 is about 53,400 tons, with a daily output of about 146 tons.
不过，这些熔喷布不仅用于口罩，还用于环保材料、服装材料、电池隔膜材料等。
However, these fuses are not only used for masks, but also for environmental protection materials, clothing materials, battery diaphragm materials, etc.
“我国的熔喷布产能本来就不大，如果按2019年我国生产60亿只口罩计算，就算都是N95口罩，最多需要熔喷布2万吨（平均每天50多吨）。
"Our production capacity is already small. If we produce 6bn face masks in 2019, we would need a maximum of 20,000 tons of spray (an average of more than 50 tons per day) for N95 masks.
”一位业内专家告诉《财经》记者。
An industry expert told Caijing.
与此同时，随着全球疫情蔓延以及国内企业复工进程加快，市场对口罩的需求量井喷。
Meanwhile, demand for masks is booming as the global epidemic spreads and domestic companies resume work.
华创证券日前根据全国的复工需求做了分析，指出中国二、三产就业人口总计5.3亿人，如每人每天一只口罩则需要5.3亿只/天。
Huacheng Securities has analyzed the country's demand for reinstated workers, noting that China's two or three-earner workforce totals 530 million, compared with 530 million a day for one mask per person per day.
另据中新社2月27日报道，美国卫生部长在谈及美国口罩储备问题时称，美国口罩已出现了2.7亿只的缺口。
The US health secretary said there was a shortfall of 270 million US masks, referring to the US mask stockpile.
巨大的口罩需求缺口和产量的上升导致原有库存熔喷布瞬间被消耗一空。
Huge gaps in demand for masks and rising production have led to an instant depletion of existing stocks.
按照每吨熔喷布约可生产 90 到 100 万只一次性口罩计算，在当前疫情下，100多吨的日产量也只能支持全国每日生产1亿只口罩，远不能满足市场需求。
At around 90m to 1m disposable masks per ton of spray, more than 100 tonnes per day would support only 100 million masks a day, far short of market demand.
为什么熔喷布过去产能这么少？刘峰表示，过去全国口罩日产能虽达2000万只，但没有满负荷运转，一半生产线都不开，口罩需求量少，造成了中国以前做熔喷布的厂家也少。
'In the past, we had 20 million masks a day, but we didn't run at full capacity, half the production lines weren't working, and there was less demand for masks, 'Mr. Liu said.
熔喷布的扩产难度大，也成为限制当下熔喷布产能的瓶颈。
The expansion of the melt-jet fabric is difficult, and has become a bottleneck to limit the current production capacity.
“新增产能（比增加口罩产能）需要的周期长、投资大，赶不上国内近期口罩机生产线的快速增加。
"The increase in production capacity (more than the production capacity of masks) will require a long time and investment, not keeping pace with the recent rapid increase in the production line of masks in China."
”前述业内专家对《财经》记者表示，这是导致熔喷布紧缺的一大原因。
Industry experts told Caijing that this was a major cause of the shortages.
3月3日新野纺织（002087.SZ）宣布拟总投资1.2亿元的高档纺熔复合非织造布项目，建设期长达6个月。
On March 3, 2008, Xinye Textile (002087.SZ) announced a total investment of 120 million yuan in high-end textile composite nonwovens, with a construction period of 6 months.
“半年建设周期已经算是比较快了，共计两条生产线，设备国内、国外采购的都有。
"The half-year construction cycle has been relatively fast, a total of two production lines, domestic and foreign equipment procurement have.
”公司一位人士指出，该项目生产的熔喷布能达到BFE99医用级别。
A person at the company said the project produced melts up to the BFE99 medical level.
刘峰称，熔喷布的原材料聚丙烯供应充足且价格稳定，脖子卡在熔喷布的生产上，熔喷布的生产线投入较大，进口成套设备约2000万，国产设备也要300-600万，且设备交付周期和安装调试周期较长，“一条产线没有个三五个月下不来”，企业并不敢轻易扩大产能。
Liu said that the raw materials of melt-blown polypropylene supply and price stability, neck jammed in the production of melting cloth, the production line input into the melt-jet production line, imports about 20 million sets of equipment, domestic equipment needs 3-6 million, and equipment delivery cycle and installation and debugging cycle, "not a single production line not three or five months.
以中国石化投资约2亿元，速上10条熔喷布生产线的成本计算，每条熔喷布生产线的成本约2000万元。
At a cost of about $200 million per production line, Sinopec is investing about $200 million to accelerate the costing of 10 production lines.
也有熔喷布企业对扩产存在疑虑。
There are also smelter enterprises to expand production doubts.
“我们希望市里一家熔喷布企业进行扩产，给其一定的设备采购补贴和贷款优惠政策。
"We want to expand production in one of the city's smelter enterprises and give them a certain amount of equipment purchase subsidies and loans preferential policies.
”一位地方政府的工作人员对《财经》记者无奈表示，但该企业对扩产的意向不是很大，原因是设备采购成本太高。
A local government official told Caijing that the company's interest in expanding production was small because of the high cost of equipment.
中间商层层转手，也在熔喷布价格飞涨中起到了推波助澜的作用。
Intermediaries have also played a role in inflating the price of melts.
“一些企业出于对原材料的供给担忧而囤积或收紧资源，造成国内市场出现了阶段性的熔喷布资源短缺。
"Some companies are hoarding or tightening resources because of concerns about the supply of raw materials, creating a periodic shortage of resources in the domestic market."
”前述业内专家直言。
Industry experts were blunt.
刘峰透露，现在熔喷布的价格非常混乱，更多是中间商在炒作。
Liu Feng revealed that the price of melting cloth is very chaotic, more intermediaries in the hype.
他表示，目前市场上流通的熔喷布，基本是进口来的，还有一小部分，是有人利用其他关系‘挤’出来的，“这些‘计划外的’货源流入转了好几手的中间商手中，他们囤着货，然后一点点的释放出来。
He said the melts now circulating in the market are basically imported, and a small portion are being squeezed out of other relationships. "These 'unplanned' supplies flow into the hands of brokers, who hoard them and release them little by little," he said.
”在熔喷布集采微信群中，记者注意到，有商家被质疑在倒卖熔喷布，以期低买高卖。
In the fusible jet collection microphone group, the reporter noticed that some businesses were being questioned over selling melts in hopes of buying low and selling high.
但从群内报价来看，已没有低于35万元/吨的货源了，3月2日更有熔喷布供货商表示，只换（口罩）不卖（熔喷布），44.5万元一吨都不卖。
However, according to the quoted price, there is no less than 350,000 yuan / tonne of goods, March 2, more lava suppliers said only change (mask) not to sell (spray cloth), 445,000 yuan a ton not to sell.
按照目前医用口罩市场批发价2.8元计算，一吨熔喷布置换20万口罩，则是置换价相当于56万/吨；如果按照中石化加油站近日口罩售价3.5元/只计算，则一吨熔喷布置换价已高达70万/吨。
According to the current wholesale price of 2.8 yuan for medical masks, the replacement price of 200,000 masks per ton is equivalent to 560,000 tons. If the face masks are priced at $3.5 / tonne recently, the exchange rate for one ton is as high as 700,000 tons / ton.
“别看现在外面市场上价格很高，我看都是要秋后算账的。
"Despite the high prices on the outside market, I think they will be settled after the autumn.
”刘峰称。
"said Liu.
2月6日，“两高”、公安部、司法部《关于依法惩治妨害新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情防控违法犯罪的意见》指出，将依法严惩哄抬物价犯罪。
On February 6, the opinions of the "two high schools," the Ministry of Public Security and the Ministry of Justice on punishing according to law the crimes that obstruct the prevention and control of the new coronavirus infection with pneumonia indicate that price hikes will be severely punished according to law.
“3月以后，熔喷布市场供应紧张会逐步缓解。
"After March, the tight supply in the spray market will gradually ease.
”前述业内专家表示，据其了解，春节后，随着熔喷布市场资源趋紧，国内部分企业纷纷紧急订购熔喷布生产装置的关键设备，预计现有100支以上的熔喷头正在订购和生产中，新增产能将在200吨/天以上。
Industry experts said they understand that after the Spring Festival, as the market for melts tightens, some domestic companies are ordering key equipment for the jet production plant urgently. More than 100 fusible jet heads are expected to be ordered and produced, with an additional capacity of more than 200 tonnes per day.
其中，中国石化目前正在紧急建设的10条熔喷布生产线，产能合计18吨/天。
Among them, Sinopec is currently emergency construction of 10 spray production lines, with a total capacity of 18 tons per day.
3月4日，《财经》记者了解到，燕山石化2条熔喷布生产线即将完成主体安装。
March 4, "Caijing" reporter learned that Yanshan Petrochemical 2 melt-jet production line is about to complete the main installation.
公司对熔喷布的定价尚在研讨中。
The company's pricing of fusible jet fabric is still under discussion.
政策补贴助力疯涨的熔喷布价格，不仅让下游口罩生产厂成本大幅提高，也让产品被政府“征用”的熔喷布厂商心里产生些许波动，期望能有一定的利润。
Policy subsidies, which help fuel soaring prices, not only raise costs for downstream mask-making plants, but also cause some volatility in the hearts of smelters whose products are being "requisitioned" by the government, in the hope of making a profit.
在鼓励扩产、平衡各方利益情况下，部分地方政府出台针对熔喷布产业支持政策。
In order to encourage the expansion of production, balance the interests of all parties, some local governments issued support policies for the melt-jet industry.
对口罩厂采购该产品进行补贴、给熔喷布企业系列优惠政策、兜底采购等，都有出现。
Mask factories to purchase this product subsidies, to melt-jet fabric enterprises series of preferential policies, shopping, etc., have emerged.
2月17日，莆田市工信局和市发改委联合发文，重点支持口罩生产关键原材料采购：2月15日起，采购过滤率95%以上的合格熔喷布的，以每吨12万元为基数，3月1日前采购到位的，按超额部分的90%予以补助；4月1日前采购到位的，按超额部分的60%予以补助。
On February 17, Putian Municipal Bureau of Industry and Communications and the Municipal Development and Reform Commission jointly issued a letter to support the purchase of key raw materials for mask production. Starting from February 15, 90% of the excess materials purchased before March 1 will be subsidized.
无独有偶，在疫情防控期间，宁波市亦对采购或调剂市外熔喷布的企业，按统调数量给予每吨2万元的一次性奖励；对成功研发并经认证符合口罩生产要求熔喷布的企业，给予一次性30万元补助。
Similarly, during the period of epidemic prevention and control, Ningbo also offered a one-time incentive of 20,000 yuan per ton for enterprises purchasing or changing the quantity of sprayed products outside the city.
作为口罩核心原材料的熔喷布，已经成为疫情战略物资，受政府管控。
As the core raw material of the mask, has become an epidemic strategic materials, under the control of the Government.
“我们生产的熔喷布全部被政府征用，价格肯定和外面不一样，但政府会有一定的补助。
"All of our production is requisitioned by the government and the prices are certainly not the same as outside, but the government has certain subsidies.
”一位上海熔喷布生产商人士对《财经》记者表示，政府给予公司全方位补助，比如人工成本、机器设备等，都有一定补助比例。
A Shanghai melt-jet producer told Caijing that the government subsidises everything from labor costs to machinery and equipment.
“产品的钱，政府肯定也是会结的，虽然利润不高。
"The money for the product will certainly come from the government, even though the profits are not high.
”其进一步指出，政府选择征用对象很谨慎。
It further noted that the government was careful in choosing whom it wanted to expropriate.
“在正式征用前，有关部门需要对公司进行全面评估，比如是不是属于核心项目等，上海已征用的十多家工厂全部都是考察过的。
"Before making a formal requisition, relevant departments need to make a thorough assessment of the company, whether it is a core project or not," he said.
”多位接受《财经》记者采访的熔喷布生产厂人员均表示，产品被政府征用，当地政府会给予一定补贴。
Several people at the smelter plant interviewed by Caijing said the products were requisitioned by the government and subsidized by the local government.
此外，部分地方政府对重点疫情企业给出贷款贴息等政策，将部分熔喷布生产商纳入重点企业名单中。
In addition, some local governments have given preferential interest rates on loans to key enterprises, adding some melt-jet producers to the list of key enterprises.
2月4日，山东省人民政府办公厅下发的《关于应对新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情支持中小企业平稳健康发展的若干意见》显示，对国家确定的疫情防控重点保障企业，2020年新增的企业贷款，中央财政已按人民银行再贷款利率50%给予贴息；对省确定的疫情防控重点保障企业，省财政按人民银行再贷款利率50%给予贴息，贴息期限不超过1年。
On February 4, the General Office of the People's Government of Shandong Province issued Opinions on Handling New Coronavirus Infection Pneumonia to Support the Stable and Healthy Development of Small and Medium Enterprises.
日产熔喷布15吨的山东俊富，位于山东省东营市。
Nissan melts 15 tons of Shandong Junfu, located in Dongying City Shandong Province.
“公司不仅是山东省确定的疫情防控重点保障企业，也是国家确定的疫情防控重点保障企业。
"The company is not only Shandong Province to determine the key epidemic prevention and control enterprises, but also the state-determined key epidemic prevention and control enterprises.
”公司一位工作人员对《财经》记者表示。
A company official told Caijing.
作为江西省唯一一家生产医用熔喷布的企业，江西天滤新材料有限公司拥有两条生产线，其生产的熔喷布被列入江西省重点调度的紧缺急需疫情防控医疗物资，该公司也被推荐列入疫情防控贴息贷款支持名单。
Jiangxi Province as the only production of medical melt-jet fabric, Jiangxi Tianfilter New Materials Co. Ltd. has two production lines, its production of melting cloth is listed in Jiangxi Province priority dispatch of urgently needed disease prevention and control medical supplies, the company is also recommended to be included in the epidemic prevention and control discount loan support list.
其他省份也有类似政策支持。
Other provinces have similar policy support.
政策暖风下，此前观望的部分公司加快投产，也有部分熔喷布企业计划扩产。
Policy warm wind, before watching some companies to speed up production, but also some melt-jet enterprises plan to expand production.
一位拟生产熔喷布的辽宁厂商接受《财经》记者采访时表示，相关设备刚到，目前正在做安装收尾的工作。
Liao Ning, a manufacturer of fusible jet fabric, told Caijing that the equipment had just arrived and was now finishing the installation.
“我其实在2018年、2019年就考虑这个生意了，跟目前的疫情没有直接关系，只是目前有相关的优惠政策，就加快落实了这个项目。
"I'm actually thinking about this business in 2018, 2019, not directly related to the current epidemic, just the current preferential policies to accelerate the implementation of the project.
”其一再强调。
"he repeated.
2月6日，辽宁省人民政府下发的《应对新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情支持中小企业生产经营若干政策措施》显示，自1月1日起，暂对防控重点物资生产企业扩大产能购置设备允许税前一次性扣除，全额退还增值税增量留抵税额。
On February 6, 2006, the Liaoning Provincial People's Government issued the Policy Measures to Support the Production and Operation of Small and Medium Enterprises in Coping with the Infection of New Coronavirus Infections, which shows that since January 1, a one-off deduction is allowed before the tax for equipment purchased for the prevention and control of key material production enterprises.
“我们目前熔喷布日产能1-1.5吨，公司产品被政府征用。
"We currently have a production capacity of 1-1. 5 tons per day and our products are requisitioned by the government.
”一位熔喷布厂商对《财经》记者坦言，公司计划扩产，预计总产能将增加一倍，扩产资金不成问题。
A smelter confesses to Caijing that the company's planned expansion is expected to double overall capacity and make it easy to expand production.
此外，已有多个地方明确表示，对疫情防控重点物资生产企业所产符合要求的防疫物资，政府予以兜底采购，作为战略物资储备。
In addition, the government has made it clear in many places that it will purchase epidemic prevention materials produced by enterprises producing key materials to meet the requirements for epidemic prevention and control as strategic goods reserves.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click Here for more information about the epidemic:: Archives & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and may not be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
从2万/吨到40万/吨，口罩核心原材料熔喷布价格飞涨之谜。
From 20,000 tons per ton to 400,000 tons per ton, the price of the core raw materials for masks has skyrocketed.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "从2万/吨到40万/吨，口罩核心原材料熔喷布价格飞涨之谜";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "从2万/吨到40万/吨，短短一个多月的时间，口罩“心脏”熔喷布价格已经上涨近20倍。
var msg _ desc = & quot; from 20,000 to 400,000 per ton, the price of the mask's "heart" spray has risen nearly 20-fold in just over a month.
分析认为，熔喷布产能和口罩产能阶段性不匹配是涨价主因";。
Analysis found that the melt-jet production capacity and mask production phase mismatch is mainly due to & quot;;;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
