美股暴涨暴跌，西雅图、赌城等遭疫情重击。
U.S. stocks rose and fell sharply, Seattle, Las Vegas and other hard hit by the epidemic.
金焱。
Yan, Jin.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
西雅图和拉斯维加斯等美国城市成为疫情重击的首批受害者，西雅图的中餐厅、唐人街受到很大影响，所属的金县(King County)地区进入紧急状态，拉斯维加斯赌场、旅游和会展经济下滑明显图/法新文 |《财经》特派记者金焱发自华盛顿编辑 | 苏琦美东时间3月5日，美股三大股指均跌逾3%，道指跌近千点。
Seattle and Las Vegas were among the first cities to be hit. Seattle's Chinatown and Chinatown were heavily affected, with a state of emergency in the King County area, Las Vegas casinos, tourism and exhibition downturns.
截止收盘，道指跌3.58%，纳指跌3.10%，标普500指数跌3.39%；道指成分股中，联合技术跌近9%，波音跌近8%，摩根大通跌5%；科技股中，苹果、特斯拉跌3%。
By the close, the Dow was down 3.10%, the S & P 500 was down 3.10%, the Dow was down nearly 9%, Boeing was down nearly 8%, J.P. Morgan was down 5%, and Apple and Tesla were down 3% in tech.
花旗集团前全球外汇主管、深数宏观（DeepMacro）联合创始人兼CEO杰弗瑞·杨（Jeffrey Young）则对《财经》记者指出，市场波动率很高。
Jeffrey Young, Citigroup's former global head of foreign exchange and co-founder and CEO of Deep Macro, told Caijing that volatility was high.
市场正在被情绪驱动。
Markets are being driven by sentiment.
另外，市场上有相当一部分投资者认为进一步的货币宽松会适得其反。
In addition, a significant number of investors in the market believe that further monetary easing would backfire.
美联储希望提振公众信心，防止金融状况恶化，并在全球增长面临下滑之际给美国经济提供缓冲，启动了自2008年金融危机以来首次紧急降息，下调50个基点。
The Fed wants to boost public confidence, prevent financial conditions from deteriorating and provide a cushion to the US economy in the face of a downturn in global growth, launching its first emergency rate cut of 50 basis points since the 2008 financial crisis.
此前一周，道琼斯指数周跌幅达到12.36%，其中有三天的跌幅达到一千点，下跌的点数创下新的记录，波动率指数更是飙升了三倍。
The move followed a week in which the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 12.36%, including three days of declines of 1,000 points, record declines and a three-fold jump in volatility.
美联储祭出新政后，美股大幅杀跌，收盘道琼斯指数大跌800点。
After the Fed's New Deal, U.S. stocks fell sharply, closing the Dow Jones Industrial Average down 800 points.
一天之后的3月4日，道指上涨1173.45点，创出史上第二大单日点数涨幅，涨幅高达4.53%。
A day later, on March 4, the Dow gained 1173.45 points, its second-largest one-day gain of 4.53 per cent.
3月2日，道指也曾暴涨1293.96点，创下该指数史上最大单日点数涨幅。
The Dow jumped 1293.96 points on March 2, its biggest one-day gain in the index's history.
美国国债和美元指数的表现也极为抢眼。
Treasury bonds and the dollar index also performed spectacularly.
美国十年国期债收益率首次跌破1%，创历史最低；美元指数也在逼近100大关时停下脚步，连续大跌。
Yields on 10-year US Treasury bonds fell below 1% for the first time, hitting an all-time low, and the dollar halted near the 100-point mark, plunging in a row.
多位华尔街人士对《财经》记者指出，虽然美股的系统性风险在加大，但现在判断美国经济面临衰退还为时过早。
'While systemic risk in U.S. stocks is increasing, it's too early to judge the U.S. economy is in recession, 'several Wall Street people told Caijing.
美国2020年1月工厂新订单降幅超过预期。
New factory orders fell more than expected in January 2020.
美国商务部3月5日发布的数据显示，美国1月工厂订单较上月下降0.5%，预估为下降0.1%，2019年12月修正后为上升1.9%，前值为上升1.8%。
U.S. factory orders fell 0.5% in January from a month earlier to an estimated 0.1% decline, up 1.9% in December 2019 and 1.8% above, according to data released March 5 by the Commerce Department.
而随着近期事件全球爆发给供应链造成压力，预计订单量可能进一步下滑。
Orders are expected to fall further as recent global events put pressure on the supply chain.
在供应链的压力之外，经济学家还预计出口方面可能也会受到影响，运输业和旅游业也可能受到损害。
In addition to supply-chain pressures, economists also expect export impacts, as well as transport and tourism.
随着新冠肺炎疫情进一步蔓延，全球航空公司在加紧削减航班及开支，盈利受到打击。
Profits have been hit as the new crown pneumonia epidemic spreads further and airlines around the world are stepping up cuts in flights and spending.
国际航空运输协会3月5日预计，今年各国航空公司的收入损失在630亿至1130亿美元之间，取决于新冠病毒疫情的发展。
The International Air Transport Association (IATA) estimated on March 5 that airline revenue losses this year could be between $63 billion and $113 billion, depending on the development of the new crown virus.
更让人担忧的是，许多航空公司的盈利水平很低，承受大量债务，资金流动受到如此的打击，肯定会迫使这些公司陷入非常困难的境地。
Even more worrying is the fact that many airlines are operating at very low profit levels and are heavily indebted, and that the liquidity shock is bound to force these companies into very difficult situations.
根据美国疾病控制与预防中心以及各州政府公布的数据，美国新型冠状肺炎感染者3月5日增至205例。
The number of new cases of coronary pneumonia rose to 205 on March 5, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and state governments.
其中49名患者是输入性的返美公民，另有17个州报告共156个病例。
Forty-nine of these patients were imported returning citizens, while another 17 states reported a total of 156 cases.
继华盛顿州和佛罗里达州后，加利福尼亚州当地时间3月4日在出现首个死亡案例后，宣布进入紧急状态，成为美国第三个因新冠疫情进入紧急状态的州份。
A state of emergency was declared on March 4, following the first deaths in Washington state and Florida, making it the third state in the United States to have a state of emergency because of the new crown.
宣告“紧急状态”为州政府调动资源提供便利，并不意味着公共机构运作或居民的日常生活会发生任何巨大变动。
The proclamation of a "state of emergency" to facilitate the mobilization of resources by the state does not imply any significant change in the functioning of public institutions or in the daily lives of the population.
但随着疫情影响扩大，一些美国城市经济会被重击，包括西雅图和拉斯维加斯，前者靠亚马逊和微软等高科技企业及这些企业为经济发动机催生的生态系统而成为高科技明星城市，后者靠会展经济成为世界级旅游和会展目的地。
But as the epidemic spreads, some US urban economies will be hit hard, including Seattle, which has become a high-tech star city, thanks to high-tech companies such as Amazon and Microsoft, and the ecosystems that these companies generate for their economic engines, which have become world-class destinations for tourism and convention.
西雅图：地处疫情中心自新冠肺炎疫情在中国暴发起，和美国大多城市一样，西雅图的中餐厅、唐人街受到很大影响。
SEATTLE (Reuters) - Seattle, like most other cities in the United States, has been hard hit by the outbreak of pneumonia at the epicentre of the epidemic.
随着疫情在美国西部蔓延，西雅图所属的金县(King County)地区进入紧急状态。
As the epidemic spread across the western United States, Seattle's King County went into a state of emergency.
除了一例死亡病例之外，全美其他所有死亡病例都发生在华盛顿州，该州成为美国甚至北美洲疫情最严重的重灾区，有当地居民呼吁中小学全面停课，当地早出现抢货囤货的情况。
All but one of the nation's other deaths occurred in Washington state, one of the worst hit areas in the United States and even North America, where residents have called for schools to be shut down and stock-outs have occurred.
据华盛顿州卫生部门的数据，该州目前至少有44例确诊病例。
According to Washington State Department of Health, there are currently at least 44 confirmed cases in the state.
西雅图弗雷德·哈金森癌症研究中心（Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center）遗传学和传染病专家特雷弗·贝德福德（Trevor Bedford）在一项分析中指出，华盛顿州州西部的新冠肺炎病例可能每6天就会增加一倍。
Trevor Bedford, an expert on genetics and infectious diseases at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle, points out in an analysis that the number of new cases of pneumonia in western Washington state could double every six days.
贝德福德认为，该州居民可能有570人感染了新冠病毒，并在以斯诺霍米什郡（Snohomish）为疫情中心的社区中传播，其中许多人并不知情。
Bedford believes 570 people in the state may have contracted the new crown virus and spread it among communities centered on Snohomish, many of whom do not know it.
金县行政长官陶·康斯坦丁（Dow Constantine）就疫情已签署了一份紧急声明，现正在为购买一家汽车旅馆进行最后的谈判，处于积极治疗中的患者可以安置在那里隔离康复。
Kim County Chief Executive Dow Constantine has signed an emergency statement about the outbreak, and is in the process of finalizing negotiations to buy a motel where patients in active treatment can be placed for isolation and rehabilitation.
除此之外，金郡还选择了怀特中心（White Center）作为临时隔离区，将有8辆拖车式的房车停放在那里。
In addition, the county has chosen the White Center as a temporary exclusion zone, where eight trailers will be parked.
每辆房车有5间单独的卧室。
Each trailer has five separate bedrooms.
与此同时，金郡也在选择建造模块化房屋的地点。
At the same time, the county is choosing sites for modular housing.
这些模块化房屋可容纳100多人，主要面向无家可归者的隔离人群，预计在本周末可建成。
These modular houses, which can accommodate more than 100 people and are primarily intended for isolated groups of the homeless, are expected to be completed by the end of this week.
疫情侵袭了西雅图都市圈，高科技企业受到的影响越来越大，创新经济近来一直为西雅图提供动能，人们担心疫情会放慢西雅图作为高科技明星城市的脚步。
The Seattle metropolitan area has been hit by the epidemic, high-tech companies have been increasingly affected, the innovation economy has been providing Seattle with recent momentum, and there are fears the epidemic will slow Seattle down as a high-tech star city.
根据布鲁金斯学会研究员Mark Muro 的最新报告，美国排名前10位的技术中心城市在数字服务工作中所占的份额继续增长，而其他大多数城市则显示出缓慢或停滞。
According to a recent report by Mark Muro, a Brookings Institution researcher, the top 10 technology-centric cities in the United States continue to increase their share of digital services work, while most other cities show slow or stagnant growth.
西雅图作为增长最快的5个城市之一，在2010年至2018年之间增加了53000多个数字服务工作。
Seattle, one of the five fastest-growing cities, added more than 53,000 digital jobs between 2010 and 2018.
报告称，数字服务工作包括软件发行，数据处理，计算机系统设计和其他信息服务。
Digital services include software distribution, data processing, computer system design and other information services, the report said.
西雅图技术工作增长的很大一部分归功于亚马逊。
Much of Seattle's growth in technology is due to Amazon.
亚马逊从2010年在西雅图地区的约5000名员工增长到2019年的53500多名员工。
Amazon grew from about 5,000 employees in Seattle in 2010 to more than 53,500 in 2019.
亚马逊公司3月3日宣布其位于西雅图南湖联盟（South Lake Union）总部的一名员工新冠病毒检测呈阳性。
Amazon announced on March 3 that one of its employees at the headquarters of the South Lake Union in Seattle had tested positive for the virus.
该公司在通报员工的信件中说明，这名员工自2月25日生病回家后，一直没有回到公司上班。
In a letter informing employees, the company said the employee had not returned to work since returning home from illness on February 25.
亚马逊公司鼓励员工在家办公。
Amazon encourages employees to work from home.
西雅图市还有微软Microsoft，Zillow和Tableau等中型公司，也是数百家初创公司的总部所在地。
The city also has medium-sized companies such as Microsoft, Zillow and Tableau, and is home to hundreds of start-ups.
脸书（Facebook）公司发布声明称，西雅图的一名员工被确诊新冠肺炎，这是公司内部首个病例。
Facebook issued a statement saying a Seattle employee was diagnosed with pneumonia, the company's first internal case.
3月4日，脸书表示西雅图办公室将在3月9日前对所有员工关闭，鼓励员工在家工作到月底。
On March 4, Facebook said the Seattle office would close to all employees by March 9, encouraging employees to work from home until the end of the month.
据报道，这名员工是一名承包商。
The employee was reportedly a contractor.
此外，西雅图市中心48层的F5大楼也于3月2日关闭进行深度清洁工作。
In addition, the F-5 building on the 48th floor in downtown Seattle was closed for in-depth cleaning on 2 March.
F5 Networks的一位发言人表示，位于市中心大楼的1,500多名员工中有一位与新型冠状肺炎测试呈阳性的人有过接触。
A spokesman for F5 Networks said one of the more than 1,500 employees in the downtown building had been in contact with people who tested positive for the new coronary pneumonia.
虽然该员工的新冠状病毒检测结果为阴性，但为以防万一，该大楼周一关闭并进行清洁。
The employee was tested negative for a new coronavirus, but the building was closed and cleaned Monday as a precaution.
拉斯维加斯：繁忙戛然而止疫情与拉斯维加斯距离越来越近，南内华达州卫生官员当地时间3月5日证实，已检测出本州的第一位新冠状病毒呈假性阳性的确诊感染病例，目前这名患者已在医院接受隔离。
Las Vegas Sanctuary from Las Vegas as health officials confirmed Wednesday that the state's first new coronavirus tested positive for a false-coronavirus, and the patient is being quarantined.
该确诊者为一名50多岁的男子，最近曾去过华盛顿州与德州，居住在维加斯地区，他的样本先由独立的内华达州南部医疗系统进行检验识别，目前将送至疾病控制与预防中心进行正式确认。
The confirmed man, a 50-year-old man who recently visited Washington State and Texas and lives in Las Vegas, will now be sent to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for official confirmation after being tested by the independent Southern Nevada Medical System.
拉斯维加斯的一月流光溢彩。
Las Vegas bloomed in January.
博彩业增长，全球游人在赌城摩肩接踵，内华达州相关报告指出，一月份赌场收入达10.4亿美元，增长了5.5％。
Casino revenues reached $1.04 billion in January, up 5.5%, according to reports from Nevada.
2月初，当新型冠状肺炎疫情在中国扩散时，拉斯维加斯成为美国最早受到影响的城市。
Las Vegas was the first city to be affected when a new outbreak of coronary pneumonia spread in China in early February.
中国游客对拉斯维加斯的酒店业乃至整个旅游行业的冲击在2月中旬已然非常明显。
The impact of Chinese tourists on Las Vegas' hotel industry and the tourism industry as a whole was already apparent in mid-February.
Andy是经常到拉斯维加斯接中国展会团的导游，他告诉《财经》记者，2月份三个大的中国展会团全部取消了。
Andy, a tour guide who often goes to Las Vegas to pick up the China Fair, told Caijing that all three major Chinese exhibitions in February were canceled.
他在拉斯维加斯接的最后一单生意是在封城之前出来的的三个福州家庭。
His last business deal in Las Vegas was with three Fuzhou families that came out before the city was closed.
像Andy这样人住在洛杉矶，但主要旅游生意在拉斯维加斯的华人导游有200人左右。
Andy lives in Los Angeles, but there are about 200 Chinese tour guides in Las Vegas, the main tourist business.
在2008年到2012年旅游业最忙的时候，据不完全统计洛杉矶华人导游有400多人。
At the height of the tourism boom from 2008 to 2012, there were more than 400 Chinese guides in Los Angeles.
这两年由于贸易摩擦，中国游客已经锐减了近一半。
Chinese tourists have fallen by almost half in the past two years due to trade frictions.
现在疫情蔓延，没有生意，Andy说大家都转行做别的了。
Now that the epidemic is spreading and there is no business, Andy says everyone is shifting to something else.
其中受到打击最重的是巴士公司和租车公司，由于没有生意，每部车因每天保险等各种费用等加起来的损失每天约200美元。
Among the hardest hit were bus companies and car rental companies, each losing about $200 a day due to the lack of business, combined with various expenses such as daily insurance.
Andy经历了911事件和非典，在他看来，这次疫情对拉斯维加斯的打击要超过过往。
Andy experienced 9 / 11 and SARS, which, in his view, hit Las Vegas harder than ever.
有数据显示，拉斯维加斯的唐人街疫情期间业务下降了25％，亚洲餐馆的生意则下降了50％。
In Las Vegas, business fell 25 percent during the Chinatown epidemic, while in Asia it fell 50 percent.
根据拉斯维加斯会议和游客管理局(Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority)的数据，2019年在拉斯维加斯的4250万访客中，有660万人去拉斯维加斯为了参加会议，占访客总数的15.5％。
According to the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority, 6.6 million of the 42.5 million Las Vegas visitors in 2019 went to Las Vegas to attend the conference, accounting for 15.5 per cent of the total.
赌博公司永利度假村(Wynn Resorts)和拉斯维加斯金沙集团(Las Vegas Sands)的股票今年以来已经分别下跌超过20％，这主要是因为其在澳门的大型赌场业务关闭了两个星期。
Shares in Wynn Resorts and Las Vegas Sands, the casino companies, have fallen more than 20 per cent so far this year, mainly because their big casino operations in Macao have been closed for two weeks.
3月初Adobe Systems取消了年度活动，这是拉斯维加斯失去的第一个大型会议，该活动预计会吸引两万名参观者，Adobe说，它计划将活动的一部分在线举行。
Adobe Systems canceled its annual event in early March, the first major conference to be lost in Las Vegas, which is expected to attract 20,000 visitors, and Adobe said it planned to hold part of the event online.
在过去的20年中，随着世界经济和市场的增长，会展经济也迅速发展。
Over the past 20 years, the MICE economy has developed rapidly with the growth of the world economy and the market.
根据行业协会的报告，2017年，全球商务活动产生了约1万亿美元的直接支出，包括用于计划和举办会议活动以及相关旅行的资金。
According to industry associations, global business activities generated some $1 trillion in direct expenditures in 2017, including funds for planning and organizing conference activities and related travel.
2017年拉斯维加斯举办了约2.2万场会议、会展和贸易展览。
Some 22,000 meetings, exhibitions and trade exhibitions were held in Las Vegas in 2017.
2017年参展人员达到660万人次，增长达5.2%，是全美会展经济效益排名第一的城市。
Exhibitors reached 6.6 million in 2017, an increase of 5.2%, making it the nation's most profitable city.
2020年 1月初，《财经》记者去拉斯维加斯参加全球消费电子科技行业三大国际展会之一的拉斯维加斯CES时，当地正在为拓展会议会展空间而努力。
In early January 2020, Caijing went to Las Vegas to attend CES, one of the top three international exhibitions in the global consumer electronics industry, as the city strives to expand its convention and exhibition space.
随着疫情在美国继续蔓延，更多的会议、展会和团体旅行将被取消。
As the epidemic continues to spread in the United States, more meetings, exhibitions and group travel will be cancelled.
拉斯维加斯经济会受到重创。
Las Vegas's economy will suffer.
Andy说，华人导游都在等5月份疫情有所缓解，现在没人敢在拉斯维加斯下单。
Andy says Chinese tour guides are waiting for the outbreak to subside in May, and no one has the nerve to place an order in Las Vegas.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click Here for more information about the epidemic:: Archives & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and may not be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
美股暴涨暴跌，西雅图、赌城等遭疫情重击。
U.S. stocks rose and fell sharply, Seattle, Las Vegas and other hard hit by the epidemic.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "美股暴涨暴跌，西雅图、赌城等遭疫情重击";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; Seattle; or Las Vegas.
var msg_desc = "西雅图和拉斯维加斯等美国城市成为疫情重击的首批受害者，西雅图的中餐厅、唐人街受到很大影响，所属的金县(King County)地区进入紧急状态，拉斯维加斯赌场、旅游和会展经济下滑明显";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Seattle and Las Vegas were among the first victims of the epidemic, with Seattle's Chinatown and Chinatown badly affected, its King County state of emergency, and Las Vegas's casino, travel, and exhibition economy at Ritz & quot; & quot;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
