疫情严重、人员滞留，基层防疫面临重压。
The epidemic is serious, people are detained and primary epidemic prevention is under severe pressure.
王丽娜 等。
Wang Lina and others.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
因疫情防控和延迟复工，从乡村到城市的流动人口暂时大量减少，身处疫情防控第一道防线的各地基层普遍存在防护物资和人手不足问题。
As a result of the epidemic prevention and control and delayed resumption of work, the rural-to-urban migration of the population has been significantly reduced, in the prevention and control of the epidemic at the grass-roots level in the first line of defense, the problem of inadequate protection materials and personnel.
严重疫情挑战能否成为真正建立分级诊疗体系的一个重要机遇？文 |《财经》记者 王丽娜 辛颖 孙爱民编辑 |王小今年春节，从乡村到城市，面对新型冠状病毒疫情蔓延，“封城”和“封村”等举措在各地频频出现，人员流动不再那么容易。
Can the serious epidemic challenge be an important opportunity to truly establish a grading system? & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
往年春节初五、初六节后就外出务工的人员，今年过以春节大多宅在家里。
Spring Festival in previous years, after the sixth holiday on the staff to work, this year to the Spring Festival mostly at home.
因为疫情仍在扩散，局部有上升趋势，对流动人员的管控成为各地基层防控重点。
Because the epidemic is still spreading, there is a local upward trend, the control of mobile personnel has become the focus of grass-roots prevention and control.
《财经》记者了解到：在河南罗山县，县城的公共交通暂停运营；在湖南新化县，跨村出行必须由当地政府批准；在打工者聚集的广东、江苏等省，发布延期复工的通知。
In Luoshan County in Henan Province, public transportation to the county level has been suspended. In Xinhua county, Hunan, cross-village trips must be approved by the local government.
大量春节后应当流动的人口因为疫情暂时不再流动，而全国各地基层普遍面临防疫能力不足、物资紧缺等多重考验。
A large number of people should be mobile after the Spring Festival because the epidemic is no longer mobile, and the grass-roots level across the country generally face insufficient epidemic prevention capacity, material shortages and other multiple tests.
“打工的基本不出去，去哪也不受欢迎”“发现不适请告知我们”，张杨已经回北京4天，老家村里干部还天天跟他联系，“说我是老家过的年，万一要是出现症状，溯源会回到村里。
Zhang Yang has been back in Beijing for four days, and cadres from his hometown have been in touch with him every day, saying that I have been in my hometown for a long time, and in case of any symptoms, I will go back to the village
”今年春节前，张扬回到山东老家过年。
Zhang Yang returned to his hometown of Shandong for the Spring Festival.
因村里有一名从武汉返乡的村民，村里大年初二开始“封村”。
Because there is a villager returning from Wuhan, the village began to "seal the village" on the second day.
当天下午他就离开村子，第二天回到北京。
He left the village that afternoon and returned to Beijing the next day.
张扬说，他刚到家，就有居委会和派出所的人上门询问，并让他做好居家观察。
Zhang Yang said that as soon as he got home, people from the neighborhood committee and the police station asked him to do a good job of home observation.
农村和社区是基层疫情防控第一道防线。
Rural areas and communities are the first line of defence against grass-roots epidemics.
根据2019年的数据，中国农村户籍人口占56.63%，面对疫情蔓延，今年春节期间各地农村都在尽可能减少人员流动。
According to 2019 data, 56.63 per cent of China's rural population is living in rural areas.
暂时不能外出打工，成为今年春节农村基层管理者和村民默认的新规则。
Can not work outside the temporary, become this Spring Festival rural managers and villagers default to the new rules.
在临近湖北的河南信阳市灵山镇长山村，“各组村民及外来人员请不要来回拜年相互走动”的标语，挂在村口、村道上。
In Lingshan Village, Lingshan City, Henan Province, near Hubei Province, "All villagers and outsiders please don't go back and forth to visit each other."
村民李庆林告诉《财经》记者，村口有专人设卡排查，不允许汽车出入，即使是本村的人，“开车子也不行”。
Villagers Li Qinglin told Caijing that the village has a special person to set up a check, do not allow cars to enter or leave the village, even if the people, "not driving cars."
1月26日，他看到县里道路运输管理局下发的文件，当天起全县各类公共交通暂停营运，恢复时间另行通告。
On 26 January, he saw a document issued by the County Road Transport Administration, which suspended the operation of all types of public transport throughout the county on the same day.
“人也出不去，你出去不能保证你接触的人不接触疫情，病毒看不到，摸不着，现在不建议出去。
"People can't get out, and you can't guarantee that the people you come into contact with are out of touch, out of sight, out of sight, out of reach of the virus.
你出去干嘛，到了北京首先让你隔离，房东如果非常讲究，也不让你进。
What are you going out for? When you get to Beijing, you'll be quarantined first, and the landlord won't let you in if he's very particular.
”村主任李庆成也表示，“打工的还不许走，一般都劝他们过完正月十五再看看。
Village director Li Qingcheng also said, "workers are not allowed to leave, generally advised them to finish the fifteenth day of the first month to see.
”李庆成和村里的干部、村医每天在村口轮流盘查。
"Li Qingcheng took turns checking with village officials and village doctors at the village head every day.
李庆林经营水电安装业务，在镇上有一个门店，镇上也通知他停止营业。
Mr. Li runs a hydroelectric installation and has a store in town, which has told him not to open.
信阳是河南抗击疫情第二大区，至1月30日24时，全市累计确诊新冠病毒肺炎病例49例，其中一例来自灵山镇檀墩村。
Xinyang is the second largest area in Henan Province to fight the epidemic. By 2400 hours on January 30, 49 cases of Newcastle virus pneumonia had been confirmed, including one case from Honolulu Village.
檀墩村的王强告诉《财经》记者，“现在打工的基本上不出去，出去也不受欢迎。
Wang Qiang, from Honolulu, told Caijing that "people who are now working are basically not going out and are not welcome to go out.
”远在北京，已经出现房东和个别小区禁止外地人员回京的现象。
As far away as Beijing, landlords and individual neighborhoods have banned expatriates from returning to Beijing.
1月31日，北京市民政局副局长赵济贵在发布会上回应，对于没有确认是新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎病例，或没有明显发烧、乏力、咳嗽等症状的返京人员，应让其自由进入小区。
On January 31, Zhao Ji-gui, deputy director of the Beijing Civil Affairs Bureau, responded at a press conference that people returning to Beijing should be allowed to enter the area freely if they do not recognize pneumonia cases as a new coronavirus infection, or if they do not have symptoms such as fever, fatigue or cough.
“不能让回京人员有这方面的不方便。
"We can't make it inconvenient for the people back in Beijing.
”减少人员流动并不是个例。
Reducing mobility is not the only example.
1月30日，湖南省新化县新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎防控工作指挥部，在给各乡镇的通知里提出，各村（社区）人员尽量限制在室内活动，做到人员不出村，确因特殊原因需跨村（社区）出行的，必须由当地乡镇政府批准。
On January 30, 2007, the Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command for the New Coronavirus Infection in Xinhua County, Hunan Province, issued a notice to the townships stating that the villagers (communities) must confine themselves to indoor activities and ensure that no one can leave the village.
河南省会郑州是中国重要的交通枢纽，铁路网延伸到全国不少城市。
Zhengzhou, the capital of Henan Province, is an important transportation hub in China.
郑州车站是郑州铁路运输的基层单位之一，往年的大年初五、初六就进入旅客返程的高峰期，但今年春节期间，郑州车站同期的旅客发送量大幅下降。
Zhengzhou station is one of the basic railway transport units in Zhengzhou, which entered the peak period of passenger return on May and June of last year.
1月30日，《财经》记者从郑州车站有关人士处了解到，受冠状病毒疫情影响和春节假期延长，春节过后客流高峰还没有出现，“据客流分析，1月30日发送旅客1900人，31日将发送旅客2000人，2月1日发送旅客2300人，与去年同期相比，旅客发送每天减少六万人。
"According to passenger flow analysis, 1,900 passengers will be sent on January 30, 2,000 on January 31 and 2,300 on February 1, a reduction of 60,000 passengers per day compared with the same period last year," Caijing told reporters at Zhengzhou Station.
”他认为，随着春运假期结束，以及疫情得到控制，旅客返程、外出务工、学生返校，客流将逐渐进入高峰期。
With the end of the Spring Festival and the epidemic under control, passenger flow will gradually peak as passengers return, migrate and return to school, he said.
“目前看，对疫情的控制力度仍然在加大，外出务工人员会减少，客流不会出现井喷式增长。
"At present, the intensity of the epidemic is still increasing, migrant workers will be reduced and passenger flow will not increase dramatically."
”此前，广东、江苏等多地提出，企业延期复工。
"Earlier, Guangdong, Jiangsu and other places put forward, enterprises postponed resumption of work.
同时，来自湖北的外出务工人员则面临着可能在各方面的行动受限。
At the same time, migrant workers from Hubei face restrictions on their movements in all areas.
在制造业聚集的广东东莞，一家企业负责人近日接到多个通知。
In Dongguan, Guangdong, where manufacturing is concentrated, the head of a company has been notified recently.
先是当地商务局通知，工厂企业复工不得早于2月9日，违者后果自负，“请做好宣传解释并转达给湖北籍务工人员”。
First, the local commercial bureau informed the factory enterprises to resume work no earlier than February 9, the consequences of failure to comply with the consequences, "please do propaganda and convey to Hubei workers."
随即当地人社分局提出，对企业湖北籍员工的流动和计划返莞情况摸底上报。
Immediately local branch of society put forward, Hubei staff of the enterprise and plan to return to the guan situation report.
在北京，一家互联网公司的员工透露，公司提出，对春节期间回武汉或湖北过年的员工，为防止疫情扩散，其到岗时间将另行安排通知。
In Beijing, an employee of an Internet company said the company suggested that employees returning to Wuhan or Hubei for the Spring Festival would be notified separately of their arrival times to prevent the spread of the disease.
基层防疫三难：任务重、缺物资、少村医今年春节因疫情而大量减少的农村务工人员流动，给这些人员所在基层县乡村的防疫带来巨大挑战，相关物资和经验都严重不足。
Grass-roots epidemic prevention: heavy tasks, lack of supplies, Shaocun medicine due to the Spring Festival this year due to the large-scale reduction of rural migrant workers, these people at the grass-roots county level and rural epidemic prevention challenges, the relevant materials and experience are seriously inadequate.
“成都市的万人小区都安静得很，可镇上的菜市场还在人潮涌动、人挤人，很多都不戴口罩。
"Ten thousand people in Chengdu are very quiet, but the town's vegetable market is still crowded, crowded, many do not wear masks.
”四川省成都市一个下辖镇的镇长陈阳告诉《财经》记者。
Chen Yang, mayor of a township in Chengdu, Sichuan province, told Caijing.
1月31日中午12点半，陈阳刚和镇上干部开完当天的第二个会，主要研究加强镇上菜市场的管控，“进去的人必须戴医用口罩。
On January 31, at 12: 30 noon, Chen had his second meeting with town officials, focusing on strengthening the control of the town's vegetable markets.
”陈阳所在的镇属于两县交界处，隔壁县出现一例确诊患者，关闭了所有农贸市场、菜市场，附近几个镇的民众都拥到陈阳镇上的菜市场。
The town where Chen Yang is located is at the junction of two counties. A case has been diagnosed in a neighboring county, where all the farmers' and Hakka markets have been closed, and people from several nearby towns have flocked to the Halles Market in Chen Yang.
医用口罩在乡镇早已成紧俏物资。
Medical masks are already in demand in townships.
“我们向上申请了十几次，都被打回来。
"We applied more than a dozen times and were all called back.
”陈阳说，县里首先要保证县级医疗机构的物资供应，“镇上干部用的口罩，都反复使用了4天以上。
Chen said the county must first ensure the supply of medical facilities at the county level. "The masks used by town officials have been used repeatedly for more than four days.
”镇上最缺的还有消毒液、快速测体温的体温枪。
Also lacking in town were disinfectants and a temperature gun for a quick temperature test.
镇上有一个车站，连同各个村落进出口设置的关卡，都需要快速测体温的设备。
There is a station in town which, along with checkpoints at the entrances and exits of villages, requires rapid temperature measurement equipment.
他解释，普通的水银体温计要6-10分钟，村民不耐烦、容易起冲突，会加大安全隐患。
The average mercury thermometer takes 6-10 minutes, he explains. Villagers are impatient and prone to conflict, which can increase security risks.
由于人口数量大，基层防疫的任务量都不小。
Because of the large population, grass-roots epidemic prevention tasks are not small.
陈阳所在的镇有8000多户居民，大多分散在山区，有的一座山只有两三户人家，上级要求对所有农户进行走访、排查。
Chen Yang's town has more than 8,000 residents, mostly scattered in the mountains, some only two or three families, the higher level of all farmers to visit, inventory.
为此，他已经安排镇上所有工作人员下乡，配合村里的工作人员，走遍镇里各个村落。
To that end, he had arranged for all the town workers to go to the countryside, work with the village workers and travel around the villages.
“除了村民自行上报的40多名从湖北返乡的村民，走访又陆续发现了近20人。
"In addition to the more than 40 villagers who have returned home from Hubei Province and reported by the villagers themselves, the visits have revealed nearly 20 more people.
”所幸，镇上没出现大的疫情，目前全镇只有一名从武汉返乡的村民出现疑似症状，已经送到县医院隔离、就诊。
Fortunately, there was no major outbreak in the town and only one returning villager from Wuhan, who had suspected symptoms, had been taken to the county hospital for isolation and medical treatment.
春节期间农民工大批返乡，农村疫情防控难度加大。
Rural migrant workers return home during the Spring Festival, rural disease prevention and control difficulties increased.
按照属地管理的原则，各地紧锣密鼓落实防控措施。
In accordance with the principle of territorial management, local implementation of prevention and control measures.
1月27日，国家卫健委疾病预防控制局一级巡视员贺青华表示，目前疫情防控正处于关键时刻，必须充分发挥基层社区包括农村社区的动员能力，实行地毯式的追踪，网格化的管理。
On January 27, Heqinghua, the first-class inspector of the National Health Commission's disease prevention and control bureau, said grass-roots communities, including rural communities, must be given full play in mobilizing capacity, carrying out carpet tracking and grid management.
将防控措施落实到户、到人。
Implementation of prevention and control measures in the home, to people.
“对村民的排查是从上到下和从下到上都有。
"The enumeration of villagers is top-down and bottom-up.
”前述河南信阳檀墩村的王强介绍，各个村小组排查本村在湖北或外地返乡的人，村里汇总后报给乡里，上面的反馈信息也会到村里。
Wang Qiang, of Honolulu village in Xinyang, Henan, said that village groups screened people returning to their villages in Hubei or other places.
1月21日，从武汉返乡的一个村民到家后就去了镇卫生院治疗，1月25日被确定为感染者。
On January 21, a villager returning home from Wuhan went to the town health center for treatment, January 25 was identified as infected.
村里的防控升级，村干部全部取消放假，开始逐一排查，“对湖北牌照的车按照要求统一停放、消毒，现在哪里的车都不让进了。
The village of prevention and control upgrade, all village cadres cancelled the holiday, began to enumerate, "Hubei license plates in accordance with the requirements of uniform parking, disinfection, now where cars are not allowed to enter.
”距离武汉市约170公里的罗山县檀墩村，近日经过排查，全村两千多村民中，从湖北返乡或春节前去过武汉的有30余人。
In Honolulu, about 170 kilometers from Wuhan, more than 30 of the more than 2,000 villagers from the village of Honolulu have visited Wuhan recently.
没有出现发热或咳嗽等症状的，自行在家中隔离，村干部要帮助买体温计、送菜，“虽然是隔离，但要人性化管理。
No fever or cough symptoms, isolation in their own homes, village officials to help buy thermometers, food delivery, "although isolated, but humanized management.
”2名村医每天登记村民的体温，村医的防护装备只有口罩。
Two village doctors keep a daily record of the villagers' body temperature, and the village doctor's protective gear is a mask.
从目前了解的情况看，基层防护物资普遍紧张。
From the current understanding of the situation, grass-roots protection materials are generally tense.
与罗山县相邻的光山县医院一名人士表示，N95口罩、医用外科口罩、一次性医用口罩、护目镜等医疗物资紧缺，“医用隔离衣一件也没有了”，“院里很快启用第二个隔离区，那个隔离区启用后，物资将更加缺。
N95 masks, medical surgical masks, disposable medical masks, goggles and other medical supplies are in short supply, and "not a single piece of medical paraphernalia is missing," said a person at Guangshan County Hospital near Luoshan County.
”在疫区湖北黄冈，1月30日，英山县某村村医胡文收到卫生院通知，对“观察人员”体温检测从每日一次增加为两次，所谓“观察人员”就是从武汉回来的村民及其接触者。
In Huanggang, Huanggang province, on January 30, doctors in a village in Yingshan county received a notice from the hospital that temperature tests for "observers" had been increased from once a day to twice a day.
武汉疫情蔓延，周边的黄冈很快成为重灾区。
Wuhan spread of the epidemic, the surrounding Huanggang soon became a serious disaster area.
胡文回忆，1月20日镇卫生院第一次召开有关疫情防控的会议，“主要是强调有发热患者我们不要接诊，也不要送到卫生院去，直接转去英山县人民医院，一家二级甲等医院。
Hu recalled that on January 20, the township hospital for the first time held a meeting on the prevention and control of the epidemic, "mainly to emphasize fever patients we do not accept, do not send to the health clinic, directly to the people's hospital in Yingshan County, a level II hospital.
”春节后情势陡然紧张。
Tension flared up after the Spring Festival.
1月23日晚，黄冈开始“封城”。
On the night of January 23, Huang Gang began to "seal the city."
“春节之后要求我们去挨家挨户排查，对所有武汉回来的人员和接触者，每天都要测量体温，并在群里报告。
"After the Spring Festival, we were asked to do house-to-house searches. We had to take a daily temperature check on all the people and contacts coming back from Wuhan and report it to the group.
”大家反映，没有口罩、体温枪等防控物资，“卫生院也没有给解决”，胡文说道。
There were no respirators, body temperature guns and other control materials, "the hospital did not give a solution," Hu said.
直到1月27日，卫生院给每位村医发放20个口罩，“村干部没有口罩，还要做防控工作，听说后都来找我要口罩，我自己就留下4个。
Until January 27, the hospital gave each village doctor 20 face masks, "village officials do not mask, but also to do prevention and control work, heard that I came to ask for masks, I left four.
”1月31日，胡文只剩下一个口罩，村里酒精也不够用了。
On January 31, Wen was left with only one mask, and there was not enough alcohol in the village.
村医缺失的问题也在此时显现，村医青黄不接、年龄偏大是各地普遍现象。
The lack of village doctors is also apparent at this time, the village doctor is not connected, age is a common phenomenon everywhere.
胡文从作为村医已经四十余年，“我们这有的村都没有村医了，我也不知道排查是谁在做”。
Hu Wen has been a village doctor for more than 40 years. "We don't have village doctors here, and I don't know who's doing it."
《财经》记者此前采访的黑龙江省一名村医，已经不再从事村医工作。
A village doctor in Heilongjiang province, previously interviewed by Caijing, no longer works as a village doctor.
“我和另外一个都不干了，村里只剩下一位近70岁的老村医。
"I stopped working with the other one and there was only one old village doctor in the village, nearly 70.
老村医能看看病，平时的公卫都由卫生院来做，现在疫情的日常体温检测就由居委会和村委会参与。
Old village doctor can see disease, usually public health by the hospital to do, now the epidemic of daily temperature testing by neighborhood and village committees to participate.
”这名原村医说。
"said the village doctor.
2月1日，胡文的卫生室收到第一批捐赠物资：防护服5套，防护镜1个，口罩100个。
On 1 February, the Hwen health centre received its first donation: five protective suits, one pair of protective goggles and 100 face masks.
有了基本的保障，健康守门人的排查工作仍在继续。
With basic safeguards in place, screening of health gatekeepers continues.
疫情挑战能否强化分级诊疗体系？1月30日，在去新型肺炎医疗救治定点医院路上，陕西省山阳县县卫生健康局副局长徐毓才对《财经》记者说：“越发感觉到基层医疗服务能力不足，在疫情防控面前短板凸显。
"There is a growing sense that basic medical services are inadequate," Xu Yuk-chai, deputy director of the county health bureau in Shanyang county, Shaanxi Province, told Caijing on January 30 on the way to a designated hospital for medical treatment for new pneumonia.
”山阳县只有一个发热门诊。
There is only one fever clinic in Shanyang.
疫情爆发后，各地要求加强发热门诊和预检分诊工作。
After the outbreak of the outbreak, local requirements to strengthen the fever clinic and pre-screening work.
但县级及以下的地方，发热门诊数量有限。
However, the number of fever clinics is limited at the district level and below.
他认为，最根本的还是基层医疗机构缺乏人才。
He believes that the most fundamental is the lack of basic medical personnel.
他解释，当前疫情防控，基层医疗机构应该能做血常规化验、X线检查。
He explained that the current epidemic prevention and control, primary health-care institutions should be able to do routine blood testing, X-ray.
但是一些基层医疗机构服务能力不行，做不了这样的检查，也没有能力判定就诊的患者算不算疑似病例。
However, some primary health-care facilities do not have the capacity to carry out such examinations, nor do they have the capacity to identify patients as suspect.
“如果这个地方距离定点治疗医院比较远，患者就得转上来，就涉及到转运问题。
"If the place is a long way from the sentinel treatment hospital, the patient will have to come up, and that involves transshipment.
患者转上来后仅仅做一个排查，排查后不符合疑似病例，需要居家隔离，患者又得转回去，一来一去，浪费了人力、物力、财力，转运还可能引起疫情传播风险加大。
After the patient is referred to do only a screening, screening does not meet the suspected cases, need to be isolated at home, patients have to turn back, waste human, material, financial resources, transit may also cause an increased risk of transmission of the disease.
”湖北省黄冈市蕲春县的一位确诊患者告诉《财经》记者，他已经转院两次了。
"A confirmed case of Agkistrodon acutus in Huanggang City, Hubei Province, told Caijing that he has been transferred to court twice.
“在卫生院做肺部CT排查，通过网络上报到县一级，当天反馈是高度疑似。
"Lung CT scan done in the hospital, reported through the network to the county level, the day of feedback is highly suspected.
然后县医院派人带着检测试剂来，一天后确诊就转到蕲春县人民医院治疗。
Then the county hospital sent someone to bring the reagent to the Agkistrodon Agkistrodon County People's Hospital for treatment a day later.
县级医院农村医疗卫生服务网的最后防线，三级防护还包括乡镇卫生院和村卫生室。
The last line of defense of rural medical service network in county hospital includes township hospital and village health room.
在城市也分为三级医院、二级医院和社区卫生服务中心三级。
There are also three levels of tertiary hospitals, level II hospitals and community health service centres in urban areas.
三级防护网，也是SARS疫情中暴露基层医疗能力薄弱后，提出分级诊疗的执行关键。
Third-level protection network is also the SARS epidemic exposed to the weakness of primary health care capacity, put forward the key to the implementation of graded diagnosis and treatment.
随着此次疫情在全国城乡蔓延，突然从村、镇涌上来的大量患者，也给县级医院带来了压力。
With the spread of the epidemic in urban and rural areas across the country, the sudden influx of patients from villages, towns, but also brought pressure to county-level hospitals.
截至1月31日24时，黄冈市确诊病例726人，仅少于武汉，死亡人数192人，疫情仍然相当严重。
By 2400 hours on January 31, 726 cases had been confirmed in Huanggang, fewer than Wuhan, killing 192 people, and the epidemic was still serious.
“蕲春县人民医院的床位全都满了，新楼不够用，启用了许久不用的旧楼。
"The Agkistrodon Agkistrodon People's Hospital is full of beds and there are not enough new buildings available.
但还是人满为患，我症状较轻，又被二次转到另一家空置的医院，算临时隔离点。
But there was still overcrowding, and my symptoms were mild and I was transferred to another empty hospital for temporary isolation.
医护人员和床铺也是从各医院抽调。
Medical staff and beds are also drawn from hospitals.
”上述患者说。
"said the patient.
从全国来看，基层医院在过去十年医改中得以发展，国家强调基本公卫服务注重慢病管理、疾病预防，以治疗为中心转向以预防为中心。
At the national level, grass-roots hospitals have developed over the past decade, with the State emphasizing the importance of basic public health services for chronic disease management, disease prevention and a shift from treatment-centred to prevention-centred care.
但在做了十年慢性病健康管理之后，面对未知的新型传染病在全国蔓延，不少基层医生措手不及。
But after ten years of health management of chronic diseases, faced with unknown new infectious diseases spread across the country, many grassroots doctors were caught off guard.
当前，大量务工人员尚未外出，这些地区的疫情防控重担已落在基层。
At present, a large number of workers have not gone out, these areas of the burden of disease control has fallen at the grass-roots level.
1月31日，国家卫生健康委基层司指出，要加强对基层医疗卫生机构疫情防控的指导。
On 31 January, the Basic Department of the National Health Council stated that guidance should be strengthened on the prevention and control of epidemics in primary health-care institutions.
主动加强协调，为基层医疗卫生机构配备防控充足物资，为此，将会把2020年人均基本公共卫生服务经费补助标准中新增的5元，全部落实到乡村和城市社区。
We will take the initiative to strengthen coordination and equip primary health-care institutions with adequate materials for prevention and control. To that end, an additional $5 per capita in the 2020 subsidy for basic public health services will be allocated to rural and urban communities.
“过去十年，基层医院硬件建设得到加强，但在医疗保险、基本药物制度改革时受到较大冲击，骨干人员流失严重，业务能力下降。
"In the past decade, the construction of hardware in basic hospitals has been strengthened, but it has been hard hit by the reform of medical insurance and the basic medicine system.
”武汉大学全球健康学院副教授王全对《财经》记者分析，社区、村医、乡镇卫生院的治疗能力弱化，在这次疫情中凸显出来。
Wang Quan, an associate professor at Wuhan University's School of Global Health, told Caijing that the weakened treatment capacity of communities, village doctors and township hospitals was highlighted by the outbreak.
外防输入、内控传播，身处疫情重灾区武汉的各社区卫生服务中心的防疫压力最大。
External defense input, internal control transmission, in the worst affected areas of Wuhan community health services center immunization pressure is the greatest.
1月23日10时起，武汉市内交通开始限制，公交、地铁、轮渡、长途客运暂停运营。
From 1000 hours on January 23, traffic in Wuhan began to be restricted and bus, subway, ferry and long-distance passenger transport operations were suspended.
“医院没床位了，限制交通是为了减少移动的传染源，否则封城禁行就没有意义了。
"There are no beds in the hospital, and restrictions on traffic are meant to reduce the source of infection, or there would be no point in closing the city.
”武汉市一位医生对《财经》记者表达了私家车运载病人辗转医院间求诊的忧虑。
A doctor in Wuhan told Caijing that private cars carried patients between hospitals to seek treatment.
限制交通后，大量患者不得不就近求医，直接对社区医院的接诊能力提出挑战。
After traffic restrictions, a large number of patients had to seek medical treatment nearby, directly challenging the capacity of community hospitals.
“湖北省所有的社区卫生服务中心和乡镇卫生院都设有发热门诊，在三甲医院和定点医院放开更多床位，但仍不足的情况下，社区应该是管理好患者的关键。
"All community health services centers and township hospitals in Hubei Province have fever clinics, and more beds have been opened in triple A hospitals and designated hospitals.
”王全指出。
"said Wang Quan.
北京协和医学院公共卫生学院院长刘远立分析，基层医疗机构的任务主要是发现疑似病例、实施医学观察、转诊重症患者。
Liu Yuanli, director of the Institute of Public Health at the Beijing Concorde Medical School, said the primary care unit's main tasks were to detect suspected cases, carry out medical observation and refer serious cases.
基层医疗机构需要跟上级医疗机构紧密配合，疫情挑战的背后，也可能是真正建立分级诊疗体系的一个重要机遇。
Primary medical institutions need to work closely with higher-level medical institutions, and the challenge of the epidemic may also be an important opportunity to establish a hierarchy of treatment systems.
（文中张扬、王强、陈阳、胡文均为化名，《财经》实习记者朱贺对此文亦有贡献）新型冠状病毒疫情系列报道▷ 点击图片查看责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
(Zhang Yang, Wang Qiang, Chen Yang, and Hu all bear aliases, and Caijing intern reporter Zhu He contributed to this article.) The new coronavirus series refers to the new coronavirus epidemic.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情严重、人员滞留，基层防疫面临重压。
The epidemic is serious, people are detained and primary epidemic prevention is under severe pressure.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "疫情严重、人员滞留，基层防疫面临重压";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Seriously infected, detained, and with AT & quot; grass-roots immunization.
var msg_desc = "因疫情防控和延迟复工，从乡村到城市的流动人口暂时大量减少，身处疫情防控第一道防线的各地基层普遍存在防护物资和人手不足问题。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; temporary and significant reduction in rural-urban migration due to disease control and delayed resumption of work; and widespread shortages of protective materials and personnel at the grass-roots level, where the first line of defence against the epidemic is located.
严重疫情挑战能否成为真正建立分级诊疗体系的一个重要机遇？";。
; Can the serious epidemic challenge be an important opportunity to truly establish a graded treatment system?;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
