一日新增确诊千例：被疫情困住的伊朗。
One thousand new cases were confirmed a day: Iran, trapped by the epidemic.
戴敏洁。
Daming Jie.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
伊朗卫生部7日公布，截至当地时间7日上午，伊朗新增新冠肺炎确诊病例1076例，累计病例数升至5823例，其中死亡145例，治愈1669例。
Iran confirmed 1,076 new cases of pneumonia on Sunday morning, raising the cumulative number of cases to 5,823, with 145 deaths and 1,669 cures, the Health Ministry said.
地处欧亚大陆“十字路口”的伊朗，向外扩散的风险日渐增加。
Iran, at the crossroads of Eurasia, is increasingly at risk of spreading outward.
实习记者｜ 戴敏洁一次逃离3月5日晚上七点，住在伊朗首都德黑兰的中文老师崔思琪拖着行李，走进了位于甘肃兰州新区的隔离单间。
Chinese teacher Cui Siqi, a Chinese teacher living in Tehran, dragged her luggage into a separate room in the new district of Gansu province, March 5, 2007.
从德黑兰飞往兰州的飞机单程要5个小时，但此刻距离他从德黑兰机场等待起飞，已经过去将近24小时。
The five-hour one-way flight from Tehran to Lanzhou comes almost 24 hours after he has been waiting to take off from Tehran airport.
他终于“逃离”了德黑兰。
He finally "escaped" from Tehran.
脸上的口罩是登机前医护人员给他戴上的，勒得他脸疼，现在终于可以扯下来了。
The mask on his face had been worn by paramedics before boarding, causing his face to ache, and he was finally able to tear it off.
他一路小心翼翼，登机前就把手机被放进塑料袋包好，不再拿出来。
Cautiously, he placed his phone in a plastic bag before boarding the plane and never took it out again.
在飞机上，他感觉口罩位置不对，像是扣进骨头里，他一睁一闭会有眼泪冒出来，但他不敢乱动。
On the plane, he felt the mask was in the wrong place, like a buckle into a bone, and tears came out of his eyes as he closed his mouth, but he dared not move.
同事给了纸巾后，他稍微擦了擦，担心会把病毒揉进眼睛。
When his co-worker gave him a tissue, he wiped it slightly, fearing that it would rub the virus into his eyes.
他还戴着权作护目镜的泳镜，但和口罩一起勒得难受，呼吸又困难，摘掉之后，他索性尽量闭眼。
He also wore goggles made of right to goggles, but with the mask strangled, breathing difficult, he simply closed his eyes as much as possible.
泳镜是崔思琪在回国前两天去超市买的，去的路上，他戴上新旧两个口罩、墨镜，头蒙塑料袋，到了超市，两个伊朗工作人员不解：为什么搞成这样？他们甚至都没戴口罩。
On his way to the supermarket, where he wore two new masks, sunglasses and plastic bags, the two Iranian workers wondered: Why did this happen? They didn't even wear masks.
崔思琪回国的决定是2月29号那天下的。
Trish's decision to return to the country came on February 29th.
2月19日，伊朗政府证实境内首例感染新冠病毒病例，之后一周，每天的新增病例十几或是几十例，但到27日后突然报新增超过百例，并且以几何级数增长——28日143例。
On 19 February, the Government confirmed the first case of New Crown Virus infection in the country, followed by a dozen or dozens of new cases a day the following week, but suddenly more than 100 new cases were reported after 27 days, with a geometric increase of 143 cases on 28 February.
29日早上，大使馆的人曾联系过崔思琪，问他生活是否有困难，是否有回国的意愿。
On the morning of the 29th, the Embassy contacted Trish and asked him if he had any problems with his life and if he had the will to return home.
他只说，热水器坏了，不敢让人来修。
He only said that the water heater was broken and did not dare to be repaired.
崔思琪在德黑兰的住所比较偏僻，周围没有什么人，崔思琪认为，相对安全。
Trish's home in Tehran is remote and surrounded by few people, Trish thinks, is relatively safe.
他在菜市场买足了食物，足够一个月生活。
He bought enough food for a month at the Halles market.
没想到29日当天，伊朗就又新增确诊205例。
Unexpectedly, on the 29th, Iran confirmed 205 new cases.
在国内的家人和朋友看到新闻，万分担忧，让崔思琪赶紧回国。
Family and friends at home to see the news, extremely worried, let Cui Siqi hasten to return home.
当晚，崔思琪联系了使馆人员得知，这次包机结束以后可能就没有了。
That night, Cui Siqi contacted the embassy staff and was told that the charter might not be available after the charter flight was over.
崔思琪想，不能再拖了，他填了回国登记表。
Cui Siqi thought, can not be put off any longer, he filled out the return registration form.
3月3日，大使馆建了微信群，把所有人的护照信息汇总给航空公司。
On 3 March, the Embassy established a micro-group to aggregate passport information on all individuals to the airline.
第二天，崔思琪和另外145名中国公民一起登上了飞往兰州的商业包机。
The next day, Trish and 145 other Chinese citizens boarded a commercial charter flight to Lanzhou.
从摆渡车上飞机前，四个医护人员围住他：换口罩、喷消毒液、洗手、量体温，再检查一遍他的机票。
Before boarding the ferry, four paramedics surrounded him: change his mask, spray disinfectant, wash his hands, take his temperature, and check his ticket again.
一路上，崔思琪填了三个健康申报审查表，量了四次体温，抽了一次血，测了一个咽喉，还经历了一次惊心动魄：飞机落地兰州后，崔思琪听到了海关人员问前排乘客：发烧几天了？崔思琪的斜后方还坐着一个发烧的乘客。
Along the way, Trish filled out three health declaration forms, took four temperature tests, took a blood test, took a pharynx, and had a thrilling experience: After the plane landed in Lanzhou, Trish heard customs officers ask the front passenger, How many days has it been running a fever?
所幸崔思琪回想，一路上没有听到他们咳嗽，这些有疑似症状的人集中先下了飞机。
Thankfully, Trish remembered that no coughing was heard along the way, and the people with suspected symptoms got off the plane first.
崔思琪估计，这些人应该去医院了。
Trish reckons these people should be going to the hospital.
旅程漫长，“有时是等待所有人手续繁杂的登机，有时是等待对所有人的盘查，有时是不知道在等什么。
The journey is long, "sometimes waiting for everyone to get on the plane, sometimes waiting for everyone to check in, sometimes not knowing what's waiting.
”崔思琪告诉本刊。
"Cui Siqi told the print.
尽管路上耽搁了许多时间，但至少他顺利地回到了中国。
Though it took a lot of time on the road, at least he made it back to China.
中国旅游博主龙微则没那么幸运，他还在德黑兰等待回国。
The Chinese blogger, who is still waiting to return home in Tehran, is less fortunate.
他1月17日到达伊朗，已经在伊朗境内待了一个多月。
He arrived in Iran on 17 January and has been in the country for more than a month.
龙微告诉本刊，此前，他曾购买俄航3月8日的机票回国，之后机票价格涨了十倍，从两千多到两万多。
Longwei told the magazine he had bought a Russian airline ticket home on March 8 and that the price had risen tenfold, from more than 2,000 to more than 20,000.
但3月6日，购买相同航班的中国人去登机，德黑兰机场却不给办理登机牌了，龙微只好取消了机票。
But March 6, the same flight to buy the Chinese people to board the plane, Tehran airport was not granted boarding passes, Longwei had to cancel the ticket.
他加入了中国驻伊朗大使馆统计回国意愿的群，很快500人的群就满了，但回国的航班消息还遥遥无期。
He joined a group of Chinese embassies in Iran to count their willingness to return home, soon a group of 500 people was full, but news of a flight home was still far away.
在龙微的镜头下，菜市场的店面依旧全部开着，人们如常购物、搬运和交谈，只有偶尔一两个路人戴着口罩。
Under the lens, the Halles' stores remain open, people shop, move and talk as usual, and only occasionally one or two passers-by wear masks.
崔思琪离开前，他看到平常去买馕的店依旧热闹，馕是当地人的主食，店里做出来的馕扣在铁架子上，顾客付完钱用手端上馕就走了，一会儿现金一会儿馕，崔思琪觉得害怕，他改吃每次都需要煮熟的意大利面了。
The naan is a staple food of the local people. Customers pay off their pennum and go away with their pennum. A few minutes later, Cui Siqi is afraid. Instead, he eats pasta, which needs to be cooked every time.
崔思琪在兰州隔离的第二天，当地时间3月7日中午，伊朗卫生部通报称，过去24小时，伊朗新增1076例新冠肺炎确诊病例，累计确诊5823例。
The day after Tri Siqi was quarantined in Lanzhou, March 7, noon local time, Iran's Ministry of Health reported 1,076 new confirmed cases of pneumonia in the past 24 hours, a cumulative total of 5,823 confirmed cases.
而在此前的3月2日，伊朗最高领袖哈梅内伊的顾问委员会一名委员因感染新冠肺炎去世。
Earlier, on March 2, a member of Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei's advisory board died of pneumonia.
3日，伊朗紧急卫生服务部负责人感染了新冠病毒，伊朗首位女副总统苏梅·埃卜特卡尔也被感染。
Iran's first female vice-president, Sumi Ebtkar, was also infected when the head of Iran's emergency health service contracted the virus on Wednesday.
伊朗总统鲁哈尼表示，新冠肺炎病毒几乎传播到所有省份。
Iranian President Hassan Rouhani says the virus has spread to almost all provinces.
一座圣城和两次聚集伊朗有确诊新冠病毒感染者的消息，出现在2月19日，崔思琪在刷Instagram时看到。
On February 19, Trish saw a holy city and two news gathering that Iran had confirmed a person infected with the new crown virus, while brushing Instagram.
最初两例确诊病例都在圣城库姆，疫情也由此爆发。
The first two confirmed cases were in the holy city of Qom, which caused the outbreak.
库姆位于伊朗西北部，是伊斯兰教什叶派圣地，也是陆路交通中心，常居人口120万，每年前往该地参加宗教活动的人数达到百万级别。
Qom, a Shiite Islamic shrine in northwestern Iran and a land transport hub with a population of 1.2 million, travels to the region every year for a million religious services.
伊斯兰教什叶派版本的《圣训》中称，“若通往天堂有八扇门，三扇就在库姆”。
"If there are eight doors to heaven, three are in Qom," says the Shiite version of the Sermon.
崔思琪曾去过库姆旅游，他看到在清真寺里，信众在里面睡觉休息、诵读经文和圣训，面向圣城方向礼拜，这是当地信众的日常生活。
Trish, who had been to Qom, saw a mosque where believers slept, read scriptures and sermons and worshiped in the direction of Al-Quds, the daily life of the local faithful.
等到礼拜日，人员更加密集，前来朝圣的民众还有亲吻和触摸圣坛的习惯，容易变成一个巨大的传染源。
By Sunday, when the crowds get denser, the pilgrims and the habit of kissing and touching the altar can easily become a huge source of infection.
在宣布确诊第一例新冠病毒病例后，伊朗政府下令关闭疫情最严重地区库姆的圣坛和清真寺，但该市的神职人员抵制了数天。
Following the announcement of the first case of the new crown virus, the Iranian government ordered the closure of the shrine and mosque in Qom, the most affected area, but clergy in the city boycotted it for several days.
2月22日，在伊朗的官方新闻里，库姆圣墓管理人萨伊迪教长反对关闭圣墓，“圣墓不仅不能关闭，而且要尽量鼓励信众前往”，因为“圣地是治愈人的地方，不是让人染病的地方”。
On 22 February, in the official Iranian press, Ayatollah Ali al-Saidi, curator of the Holy Sepulchre in Qom, opposed the closure of the Holy Sepulchre. "The Holy Sepulchre must not only be closed, but should be encouraged as much as possible" because "Holy Places are places of healing, not of disease."
长期关注伊朗问题的国际事务观察者张育轩告诉本刊，伊朗的政教合一的体制使得宗教人士有很大权力，即便政府想关闭宗教场所也不是容易的事，而未关闭宗教场所使得疫情进一步扩散。
Zhang Yuxuan, a longtime observer of international affairs in Iran, told the magazine that Iran's theocratic system gives religious figures a lot of power, even if it is not easy for the government to shut down places of worship, which contributes to the spread of the epidemic.
在伊朗当局取消了原定于3月初举行的为期三天的宗教节日后，库姆居民仍然拒绝遵守省长安全委员会关闭圣坛的命令。
Following the cancellation by the Iranian authorities of a three-day religious festival originally scheduled for early March, residents of Qom continued to refuse to comply with the order of the Governor's Security Committee to close the altar.
2月28日，伊朗在全国范围内取消了41年来从未中断过的周五聚礼。
On Feb. 28, Iran canceled a 41-year-old Friday shower.
但库姆至今没有封城，市民出行没有管制。
But Qom has not been closed to the city, citizens travel without regulation.
即使清真寺被关闭，虔诚的人民仍会选择到另一个城市的清真寺进行朝拜，这又会导致库姆疫情向外扩散。
Even if mosques were closed, devout people would still choose to make pilgrimages to mosques in another city, which would in turn spread the Qom epidemic outwards.
虽然周五的大礼拜被要求取消，但很多信众周内其他时间也会做礼拜，并且笃信去清真寺进行集体仪式。
Friday's week was called off, but many congregations also took place at other times of the week, and there was a strong belief in going to the mosque for a collective service.
伊朗总统鲁哈尼在2月26日的内阁会议上表示，伊朗没有计划对任何城镇实施卫生隔离。
Iranian President Hassan Rouhani told a cabinet meeting on February 26 that Iran had no plans to impose a health quarantine on any town.
2月27日，领袖哈梅内伊在冠状病毒的讲话视频中，表示力挺卫生部，支持后者“不隔离疫区城市”的政策。
On February 27, leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei in a video speech on coronavirus, expressed support for the Ministry of Health, the latter "do not isolate the affected areas of the city" policy.
崔思琪看到资料，每日库姆和德黑兰有30万人次的往返，而商场、医院、地铁的祈祷室都正常开放，地铁和集市的人群依旧集聚。
Cui Siqi saw that there were 300,000 commuters per day in Qom and Tehran, while prayer rooms in shopping malls, hospitals and subways were open normally, and people continued to congregate in the subway and bazaars.
崔思琪还担忧地回想起两次大规模聚集活动：2月11日的伊朗伊斯兰革命四十一周年的大游行，以及2月21日的议会选举活动。
Trish also recalled with concern two large gatherings: the forty-first anniversary of the Islamic Revolution in Iran on 11 February and the parliamentary elections on 21 February.
伊朗的国庆大游行从当年的革命地德黑兰大学附近的革命广场开始，一路向西，走三四个地铁站的距离，到达自由塔广场。
Iran's National Day Parade starts at the Revolutionary Square near the revolutionary land of Tehran University and travels three or four metro stations west to Liberty Tower Square.
整条马路上都涌着人，人挨着人，车辆无法穿行。
The whole road was full of people, next to people, and cars couldn't get through.
崔思琪觉得，病毒当时已经潜伏在了人群里。
Trish thought the virus was already lurking in the crowd.
即使2月19日出现确诊，伊朗政府依然不愿意取消21日的议会选举。
Even with the diagnosis on 19 February, the Iranian Government remains reluctant to cancel the parliamentary elections of 21 February.
崔思琪在电视里看到，人们纷纷去投票站投票，几乎都没有口罩。
Trish saw on television that people went to the polls to vote, almost all of them without masks.
“疫情在伊朗实际上1月就发生了，但近期伊朗的局势动荡，政府直到2月19日才公布疫情。
"The outbreak actually happened in Iran in January, but the situation in Iran was volatile recently and the government did not report the outbreak until February 19," he said.
”中国国际问题研究院特邀研究员、中国驻伊朗前任大使华黎明说，“在这样的形势下，伊朗政府正面对持续不断的反政府示威游行，为了确保政治安全，政府并未取消大游行和选举。
"Under these circumstances, the Iranian government is facing an ongoing anti-government demonstration, and the government has not cancelled major marches and elections to ensure political security," said Hua Dawn, a guest researcher at the China Institute of International Studies and former Chinese ambassador to Iran.
”在印权斌看来，政府未迅速采取隔离等应对疫情的硬措施，还为了要保障经济和社会稳定。
According to Mr. Bin, the government did not immediately take hard measures to deal with the epidemic, such as isolation, but also to safeguard economic and social stability.
一旦封城停工，势必让已经在美国制裁压力下脆弱的伊朗经济更加崩溃，而且会导致民众恐慌哄抢物资，进而导致物资短缺引发社会动荡。
If the siege is halted, Iran's already-fragile economy, already under pressure from US sanctions, will collapse further, leading to panic and looting of goods, which in turn will lead to social unrest caused by shortages.
保经济与绝对控制疫情，只能顾一头。
The economy and absolute control of the epidemic, only one.
印权斌告诉本刊，德黑兰疫情爆发第一周，咖啡馆依旧人来人往，公共场合人流量大，一方面是因为政府轻描淡写，另一方面是伊朗最近面临遭受制裁、物价上涨很多困难，而冠状病毒也只是困难中的一个而已。
In the first week of the outbreak, cafes continued to be crowded and there was a huge flow of people in public places, partly because of the government's understatement and partly because Iran has recently faced sanctions and high prices, but that the coronavirus is only one of the difficulties.
2月28日，世卫组织将新冠肺炎疫情全球风险级别上调至“非常高”。
On February 28, the WHO raised the global risk level for pneumonia to "very high."
扩散的风险2月19日，听到库姆有两人确诊感染新冠的消息后，崔思琪去超市买菜，跟门口卖花的阿富汗人说了情况，让他们也小心些。
Risk of Proliferation On February 19th, after hearing that two people in Qom had confirmed a new crown, Trish went to the supermarket to buy vegetables and told the Afghans selling flowers at the door to be more careful.
他的波斯语表达不清，对方以为他说两人死去了。
His Persian language was inarticulate and he thought he said they were dead.
崔思琪解释，只是确诊。
Trish explained it was just a diagnosis.
没想到几个小时后，两个确诊者就去世了。
Just a few hours later, the two confirmed men died.
当天下午四点，崔思琪跑到药店买了30个口罩，总共花了30万里亚尔，约合人民币15块钱。
At four o'clock that afternoon, Trish went to the drugstore and bought 30 masks, at a total cost of 300,000 rials, or about 15 yuan.
第二天他想再买点消毒液，上午九点，他刚走进药店，对方就摆摆手：口罩卖光了。
The next day he wanted to buy some more disinfectant. As soon as he entered the drugstore at 9 a.m., he waved his hand: The mask was sold out.
他跑到另一家店，口罩限购4个。
He went to another shop and restricted the purchase of four masks.
之后一个学生告诉崔思琪，德黑兰有些口罩涨到了人民币15块钱——在德黑兰，这接近普通家庭单人一周的饭钱。
Then one student told Trish that some of Tehran's masks had swollen to 15 yuan - close to the average family's one-week meal in Tehran.
崔思琪想，这或许是路上许多人仍然不戴口罩的原因。
This may be why many people on the road still don't wear masks, Trish thought.
27岁的伊朗人索尼娅失业已久，她买不起这价格昂贵的口罩。
Sonia, a 27-year-old Iranian, has been unemployed for so long that she cannot afford the expensive mask.
她有工业工程的硕士学位，但只能在伊朗兼职做导游。
She has a master's degree in industrial engineering, but only works part-time as a tour guide in Iran.
今年1月10日，白宫在一份声明中说，总统特朗普当天签署行政令，授权财政部制裁包括建筑、矿业、制造业和纺织业在内的多个伊朗经济行业。
On January 10, the White House said in a statement that President Trump had signed an executive order authorizing the Treasury Department to sanction a number of Iranian economic sectors, including construction, mining, manufacturing and textiles.
美国和伊朗的关系更加紧张，很多游客不再前来伊朗旅游，索尼娅接不到工作，也基本上没有收入。
Relations between the United States and Iran have become more strained, with many tourists no longer traveling to Iran and Sonya not receiving a job or earning much of her income.
2月28日，索尼娅发烧了，不停咳嗽。
On Feb. 28, Sonya had a fever and coughed.
她前往医院就医，医生说，只是流感，不用治疗。
She went to the hospital to see a doctor, who said it was the flu, not the treatment.
索尼娅依旧感到焦虑，由于没有试剂，她不能保证医生的诊断是否可信。
Sonya continued to feel anxious that without reagents, she could not guarantee the credibility of her doctor's diagnosis.
但她只能回家，自己隔离。
But she had to go home and isolate herself.
张育轩告诉本刊，伊朗能应付基本药物和治疗，但在传染病防治和应对上能力较弱。
Zhang told the magazine that Iran is able to cope with essential drugs and treatment, but is less able to control and respond to infectious diseases.
而伊朗的医疗进口商表示，由于美国的经济制裁，他们没有办法买到检测制剂。
Iranian medical importers say they are unable to buy test preparations because of U.S. economic sanctions.
中国向伊朗政府和人民提供援助2月21日，国际反洗钱金融行动特别工作组将伊朗列入了黑名单。
China Offers Assistance to the Iranian Government and People On February 21, the International Financial Action Task Force on Money Laundering blacklisted Iran.
印权斌告诉本刊，国际反洗钱机构已经多次给伊朗宽限，要其政府通过国际反洗钱协议。
The international anti-money laundering agency has granted Iran a waiver on several occasions to pass international anti-money laundering agreements, he told the magazine.
虽然伊朗议会通过协议，但专家会议一直不通过，最后国际反洗钱机构忍无可忍，将伊朗列入黑名单。
Although an agreement was adopted by the Iranian Parliament, the meeting of experts was never adopted, and finally the international anti-money-laundering body became impatient to blacklist Iran.
列入黑名单后，与伊朗的所有交易都将面临更严格的审查。
After blacklisting, all transactions with Iran would be subject to stricter scrutiny.
伊朗医疗设备进口商协会理事法拉说：“许多国际企业愿意向伊朗提供检测新冠试剂盒，但我们无法向他们汇款。
"Many international companies are willing to provide Iran with test kits for the new crown, but we can't send them money," said Farah, director of the Iran Association of Importers of Medical Equipment.
”截至3月6日，伊朗有近16000例疑似病例未得到确诊。
As of March 6, nearly 16,000 suspected cases in Iran had not been confirmed.
在家隔离的索尼娅告诉龙微，很多年轻人在医院里得不到救治。
Sonia, who is isolated at home, told Loong Wei that many young people were denied treatment in the hospital.
而她得不到检测试剂，也万分焦虑，3月5日她发消息给龙微：“这一周伊朗疫情将达到高峰，这将会是一场灾难，你必须早点离开！”伊朗地处欧亚大陆的“十字路口”，由于其他国家的什叶派民众到库姆朝觐，疫情或许还将继续扩散。
"The Iranian epidemic will peak this week, and it will be a disaster, and you must leave early!" Iran, at the crossroads of Eurasia, may continue to spread as Shiites from other countries make the pilgrimage to Qom.
目前，伊拉克、黎巴嫩、阿富汗、巴林、科威特的确诊病例都曾前往伊朗。
Currently, confirmed cases in Iraq, Lebanon, Afghanistan, Bahrain and Kuwait have gone to Iran.
华黎明说，如果伊朗不彻底封锁边境，不断然采取措施，可能会在中东出现大规模蔓延。
Hua Dawn says if Iran does not completely seal its borders and take resolute measures, it could spread across the Middle East on a massive scale.
（崔思琪为化名，本文图片来自parstoday官网）⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载请联系后台。
(Trish Siqi for alias, this picture belongs to the magazine, welcome to the circle of friends, please contact backstage.
点击图片，一键下单「营造学社」▼ 点击阅读原文，进入周刊书店，购买更多好书。
Why don't we go to a weekly bookshop and buy more good books Why don't you come over to our office?
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一日新增确诊千例：被疫情困住的伊朗。
One thousand new cases were confirmed a day: Iran, trapped by the epidemic.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "一日新增确诊千例：被疫情困住的伊朗";。
var msg _ title = & quot; one thousand new cases a day: Iran & quot;; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "地处欧亚大陆“十字路口”的伊朗，向外扩散的风险日渐增加。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Iran, at the "crossroads" of Eurasia, is at increasing risk of spreading outward.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
