新冠疫情下的脆弱晚年：疾病和心理双重打击。
Fragile Old Age under the New Crown Epidemic: A Twin Strike of Disease and Psychology.
界面地球姨。
Auntie Earth.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
3月1日，华盛顿州Life and Care养老院的老人因新冠肺炎住院。
On March 1, elderly people in a nursing home in Life and Care, Washington, were hospitalized with Newcastle Pneumonia.
图片来源：推特记者：刘芳“ “更频繁接触到死亡，会让很多老年人投影到自己身上，从而产生抑郁等心理疾病。
"More frequent exposure to death casts a shadow over many elderly people, causing mental illness such as depression," Liu Fang said.
但由于很多老年人不想被当做弱者，他们选择对心理问题闭口”新冠肺炎来势汹汹，老年人群体往往承受着病痛和心理的巨大压力，显得尤其脆弱。
But since many older people do not want to be treated as weak, they choose to remain silent about psychological problems. "New crown pneumonia is a particularly vulnerable group, often under severe pain and psychological stress.
在老龄化程度较高的国家/地区，以及老年人聚集的场所，新冠病毒严重威胁着他们的生命安全。
In countries / regions with a high degree of ageing, as well as in settings where older persons congregate, the new crown virus poses a serious threat to their lives.
而除了病毒本身之外，他们的基础疾病和心理问题也给疫情的防控带来了挑战。
In addition to the virus itself, their basic diseases and psychological problems also brought challenges to the prevention and control of the epidemic.
在美国华盛顿州柯克兰市（Kirkland）的Life and Care养老院，已至少有8名老人因新冠肺炎而死亡，占美国新冠肺炎病死总数的一半以上。
At least eight elderly people have died of pneumonia at the Life and Care Home in Kirkland, Washington, which accounts for more than half of all deaths from pneumonia in the United States.
截至发稿时止，美国共确诊新冠肺炎患者160人，死亡11人，病亡率达到6.9% ，为世卫组织3月4日公布的全球平均水平（3.4%）的两倍。
By the time of writing, 160 new cases of pneumonia had been diagnosed in the United States, killing 11 people, representing a fatality rate of 6.9 per cent, twice the global average of 3.4 per cent published by the World Health Organization on 4 March.
由于该养老院已经封闭且禁止探望，老人的家人们心急如焚。
As the home had been closed and no visits were allowed, the elderly family members were distraught.
为了找到丈夫，霍尔斯塔德（Bonnie Holstad）太太不得不在养老院外打出标语求助：“没人接电话，我也联系不上护士站。
To find her husband, Mrs. Bonnie Holstad had to post a sign outside the nursing home asking for help: "No one answered the phone and I couldn't reach the nursing station.
我的丈夫有帕金森和认知障碍，我知道他在咳嗽。
My husband has Parkinson and cognitive impairment. I know he's coughing.
需要有人照顾他......”霍尔斯塔德打出标语。
Someone needs to take care of him... "Holstad made the sign.
来源：推特目前，美国联邦政府已经介入调查。
Source: Twitter: The U. S. federal government has stepped in to investigate.
当地媒体报道称，在108位老人和180名工作人员中，至少有50人出现了新冠肺炎的症状，所有人员都正在进行相关检测。
Local media reported that at least 50 of the 108 elderly and 180 staff members had developed symptoms of pneumonia and all were undergoing tests.
柯克兰市所属的金县公共卫生机构官员杜钦（Jeff Duchin）曾坦言：“我们非常担心在老年人聚集的场所爆发疫情。
Jeff Duchin, an official at the Kim County Public Health Office in Kirkland, once admitted: "We are very concerned about outbreaks in places where older people congregate.
”这家养老院距西雅图市区只有20分钟车程。
The nursing home is only 20 minutes from downtown Seattle.
Facebook和亚马逊在西雅图已经有员工确认感染。
Facebook and Amazon already have employees in Seattle to confirm the infection.
目前，该市所在的华盛顿州和附近多个市已宣布进入紧急状态。
A state of emergency has been declared in the city's Washington state and nearby cities.
全美国大约有220万人生活在养老院等长期护理机构中，而如何在新冠肺炎疫情中保障这些机构人员的安全则是一项异常艰难的考验。
Some 2.2 million people across the country live in long-term care settings, such as nursing homes, and ensuring the safety of their personnel during the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic is a particularly difficult test.
美国远非个案。
America is far from isolated.
在老龄化程度更高的意大利，新冠肺炎给整个社会带来了巨大压力。
In Italy, where the aging population is higher, new crown pneumonia is putting enormous strain on society.
截至发稿，意大利共有确诊病例3858人，148人死亡，病亡率（3.8%）同样高于全球平均水平，其中绝大多数为65岁以上的老年人。
By the time of writing, there were 3,858 confirmed cases and 148 deaths in Italy, with a mortality rate (3.8 per cent) also higher than the global average, the vast majority of whom were older than 65 years of age.
在所有去世的患者中，最年轻者为55岁。
The youngest of all deceased patients is 55 years of age.
对大多数意大利老人来说，凶猛的疫情让他们无可奈何。
For most elderly Italians, the ferocious outbreak left them helpless.
79岁的科皮尼 (Domenico Coppini) 站在塞库尼亚戈小镇（Secugnago）的一个酒吧外说：“如果病毒真的感染了我，那就这样吧。
"If the virus does infect me, so be it," said Domenico Coppini, 79, standing outside a bar in the town of Secugnago.
意大利是一个古老的国家，病毒盯上了这里的老年人。
Italy is an ancient country, where the virus is focused on the elderly.
”统计数据显示，意大利65岁以上的老人占总人口的22.8%，是欧洲老龄化程度最高的国家，在全球范围内也仅次于日本。
Italy, with 22.8 per cent of its population aged 65 and over, is the oldest country in Europe and second only to Japan globally, according to statistics.
《纽约时报》指出，意大利老年人因新冠肺炎死去甚至已经成为了一种令人忧虑的“新常态”。
The New York Times notes that the death of Italy's elderly due to pneumonia has even become a worrying "new normal."
2月17日，中国疾控中心在《新冠肺炎流行病学特征分析》（简称《报告》）中指出，由已知数据推算的70-79岁老人和80岁以上老人的新冠肺炎粗病死率分别为8%和14.8%，大大高于其余年龄段，为高危人群。
On February 17, the China Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), in its Epidemiological Analysis of New Crown Pneumonia (NCP), noted that the crude death rates of 70-79 and 80-year-olds were 8% and 14.8% respectively, much higher than the rest of the population, making them at high risk.
这种高死亡率最直接的后果之一，就是对这个群体的心理健康造成了冲击。
One of the most immediate consequences of this high mortality rate is the impact on the mental health of this group.
澳大利亚中央昆士兰大学的认知心理学博士高盈盈对界面新闻表示：“身体机能的退化和社会接触减少等因素，会让很多老年人处于心理亚健康状态。
"Factors such as physical deterioration and reduced social contact can leave many older people with mental health problems," Gao Ying-ying, PhD, a cognitive psychologist at the University of Central Queensland, told Interface News.
更频繁的接触到死亡会让很多老年人投影到自己身上，从而产生抑郁等心理疾病。
More frequent exposure to death causes many older people to project themselves, which can lead to mental illness such as depression.
但由于很多老年人不想被当做弱者，他们选择对心理问题闭口不谈。
But since many older people do not want to be treated as weak, they choose to remain silent about psychological problems.
”2月18日，医学期刊《柳叶刀》刊发了《新冠肺炎疫情期间中国老年人的心理健康服务》一文。
On February 18, the medical journal Lancet published Mental Health Services for the Elderly in China during the New Crown Pneumonia Epidemic.
作者们指出，新冠肺炎的快速传播及其导致老年人中的高死亡率，可能会加剧该群体的精神健康风险，进一步损害他们的认知能力。
The authors note that the rapid spread of new crown pneumonia and its resulting high mortality rate among older persons may exacerbate mental health risks for this group and further undermine their cognitive abilities.
文章还提供了这样的数据：2017年中国60岁以上老年人口达2.41亿，占总人口的17.3%，其中约一半为“空巢老人”。
In 2017, there were 241 million people over the age of 60 in China, accounting for 17.3 percent of the total population, about half of whom were "empty nests."
不仅如此，老年人常见的基础病，例如癌症、糖尿病和心脏病的存在更是让新冠肺炎的治疗变得更加复杂和困难。
Moreover, the presence of common underlying conditions in older people, such as cancer, diabetes, and heart disease, complicates the treatment of pneumonia in the new crown.
中国疾控中心的《报告》称，在已知的死亡病例中，患有高血压、糖尿病、心血管疾病和呼吸道传染病的患者比例分别为12.8%、5.3%、4.2%和2.4%。
According to the CDC report, 12.8 percent, 5.3 percent, 4.2 percent and 2.4 percent of the known deaths were from hypertension, diabetes, cardiovascular disease and respiratory tract infections, respectively.
米兰萨科医院（Sacco hospital）传染病主任加利教授 (Massimo Galli) 对《卫报》表示，“在这里，有过病史的老年人是出了名的多。
Massimo Galli, director of infectious diseases at the Sacco hospital, told The Guardian: "There is a lot of notoriety about older people who have a history of illness.
我认为这可以解释为什么我们在意大利出现了更多的新冠肺炎重症患者。
I think that could explain why we have more serious cases of pneumonia in Italy.
我们的预期寿命位居世界最高之列。
Our life expectancy is among the highest in the world.
但不幸的是，在这样的情况下，老年人更容易出现（危及生命）的严重后果。
Unfortunately, in such cases, older people are more likely to suffer serious consequences.
”中国疾控中心统计的新冠肺炎不同年龄层病死率。
China's CDC statistics show death rates for the new crown pneumonia by age group.
来源：Business Insider未感染的老年人同样存在生命危险。
Source: Business Insider not infected elderly also life-threatening.
由于疫情在意大利不断扩散，其原有的医疗资源正在倾斜，很多因其他疾病需要就医的病人将无法得到及时救治。
As the epidemic spreads in Italy, its pre-existing medical resources are tilting, leaving many patients in need of treatment for other diseases without timely treatment.
在意大利北部，许多医院已经取消了所有的非紧急手术，以便为新冠肺炎患者腾出床位和医疗资源。
In northern Italy, many hospitals have cancelled all non-emergency surgery to free up beds and medical resources for patients with pneumonia.
圣马泰奥（San Matteo）传染病部门主任布鲁诺 (Raffaele Bruno) 无奈地表示，如果不得不让（新冠肺炎患者）中10%的人住进医院，2%的人去重症监护病房，那就没有更多的地方来照顾有其他疾病的患者了。
Raffaele Bruno, director of the department of infectious diseases at San Matteo, lamented that if 10 per cent of people had to be admitted to hospitals and 2 per cent to intensive care units, there would be no more room for patients with other illnesses.
事实上，新冠肺炎对医疗资源的挤压效应并不是意大利的独有的现象。
Indeed, the squeezing effect of new crown pneumonia on health-care resources is not unique to Italy.
在日本、韩国、美国等其他老龄化程度高的国家，如何在新冠肺炎疫情中保障对癌症、白血病和尿毒症等患者的救治也引起了大量关注。
In Japan, South Korea, the United States and other high-aging countries, how to safeguard the treatment of cancer, leukaemia and uremia in the new crown pneumonia outbreak also attracted a lot of attention.
对此，中国医药创新促进会会长宋瑞霖对界面新闻表示：“基础病、老年病，特别是肿瘤已经进入到了慢病管理。
"Basic diseases, geriatric diseases and especially tumours have entered the management of chronic diseases," Song Ruilin, president of the China Society for the Promotion of Medical Innovation, told Interface News.
这些病人的生命与用药的连贯性和供药的及时性紧密相连。
The life of these patients is closely related to the consistency of medication and the timeliness of its delivery.
拿肿瘤病人来说，目前他们的人数大大高于新冠肺炎的患者。
In the case of tumour patients, their numbers are now significantly higher than those of patients with new crown pneumonia.
在抗新冠肺炎的战役当中，医疗资源被大量调到了前线，但后方仍有大量的患者需要获得高度关注，否则，会危及这些患者的生命。
During the campaign against Newcastle Pneumonia, medical resources were deployed to the front lines, but there are still large numbers of patients on the home front who would otherwise be in danger of losing their lives.
”宋瑞霖还认为，在新冠肺炎疫情防控取得显著成效之时，亟待采取措施把突发疫情防控和日常的诊疗供药平衡起来。
Song also believes that measures are urgently needed to balance outbreak prevention and control with routine treatment and supply when the control of the new crown pneumonia epidemic has achieved significant results.
（Galaxia Wang对本文亦有所贡献）未经授权 禁止转载。
(Galaxia Wang also contributed to the article) Unauthorized reprinting is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
新冠疫情下的脆弱晚年：疾病和心理双重打击。
Fragile Old Age under the New Crown Epidemic: A Twin Strike of Disease and Psychology.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "新冠疫情下的脆弱晚年：疾病和心理双重打击";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 160; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "“更频繁接触到死亡，会让很多老年人投影到自己身上，从而产生抑郁等心理疾病。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "More frequent exposure to death has caused many elderly people to project themselves, causing mental illness such as depression.
但由于很多老年人不想被当做弱者，他们选择对心理问题闭口";。
But because many older people don't want to be seen as weak, they have chosen to keep their voices shut about & quot;;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
