香港购物中心集体陷落，业主降租、减持各寻生路。
Hong Kong shopping center collective fall, owners rent down, reduce their own way to find a way.
卢奕贝。
LU Yick Pui.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
香港海港城 。
Harbour City, Hong Kong.
来源：图虫记者：卢奕贝  编辑：昝慧昉“ “去年的情况是第三、四季度越来越严重，今年第一季度更加差。
www.youtheme.cn (Reuters) - The situation in the past year has been getting worse in the third and fourth quarters and even worse in the first quarter of this year.
””香港暂时失去了它“购物天堂”的光环。
Hong Kong has temporarily lost its halo of shopping paradise.
这里的大型购物中心正在经受前所未有的考验。
The shopping malls here are being tested as never before.
香港大型地产商九龙仓置业（01997.HK，下称九置），持有多个香港核心购物中心，包括时代广场、荷里活广场及海港城。
Hong Kong's leading property developer, Kowloon Warehouse (01997.HK), owns a number of Hong Kong's core shopping centres, including Times Square, Hollywood Square and Harbour City.
3月5日，这家公司公布了其2019年的业绩，集团整体净利润同比大跌78%，其中，商场营业额租金（分成租金）在去年第三、四季度分别下跌了49%及78%。
On March 5, the company reported its 2019 results, with the group's overall net profit down 78% year-on-year, with retail turnover (share of rents) down 49% in the third quarter and 78% in the fourth quarter.
报告期内，受香港社会事件影响，访港旅客大跌，令购物商场经营困难。
During the reporting period, due to social events in Hong Kong, visitor arrivals dropped sharply, making it difficult for shopping malls to operate.
海港城的总收入及经营利润减少了2%，商场租户零售额全年下跌了23%；时代广场的收入和经营利润分别减少3%和2%，商场租户零售额全年下跌了19%；荷里活广场的收入及营业盈利均跌3%，此前界面新闻曾报道过，全球最大奢侈品牌之一的Louis Vuitton，由于业主九置拒绝为品牌位于铜锣湾时代广场的分店减租，计划关闭该分店。
Total revenue and operating profits fell 2 per cent, retail sales in the mall dropped 23 per cent, Times Square revenues and operating profits fell 3 per cent and retail sales fell 19 per cent. Holliday Plaza's revenues and operating profits both fell 3 per cent. Louis Vuitton, one of the world's biggest luxury brands, plans to close because nine owners have refused to let its Times Square branch.
该分店于2013年开幕，月租金高达500万港元。
The store opened in 2013 for a monthly rent of up to HK $5 million.
九龙仓置业主席兼常务董事吴天海在业绩报告会上被问及此事，回应称，去年及今年都有奢侈品牌商户退租，但是有退有入，这样的调整年年都有。
Mr Ng Tian-hai, chairman and managing director of Kowloon Warehouse, was asked about this at the performance report. He responded that luxury brands had reported rent rebates in the past year and this year, but there were rebates, and such adjustments were made year after year.
至于减租的情况，吴天海则以与商户有保密协议为由未对外透露，仅表示新租约会随市况浮动。
As for rent reduction, Wu Tian-hai, citing confidentiality agreements with merchants, did not disclose, saying only that the new tenancy would fluctuate with market conditions.
虽然截止2019年年末，九置旗下海港城及时代广场的出租率并未受到太大影响，仍保持在97%的水平，然而新冠疫情令情况日益艰难。
Although occupancy rates at Nine Seaports and Times Square had not been significantly affected by the end of 2019, remaining at 97 per cent, the new Crown has made the situation increasingly difficult.
“去年的情况是第三、四季度越来越严重，今年第一季度更加差。
"Last year things got worse in the third and fourth quarters and even worse in the first quarter of this year.
”吴天海说。
"said Wu.
2月初，海港城内许多商铺闭店暂停营业，其中围上了装修板的门面达到24个。
At the beginning of February, many shops in the city were closed, with 24 upholstered facades.
对这座“香港零售业的风向标”，这种情况并不常见。
This is not often the case with the "vane of Hong Kong's retail sector."
自2007年起的10年间，受益内地游客的访港购物热潮，海港城销售额年均复合增长率超过10%。
In the 10 years since 2007, port city sales have grown at an average annual compound rate of over 10%, thanks to a surge in visitor arrivals from the Mainland.
2018年海港城销售额超过370亿元港元，平均每天超过一亿元港元。
In 2018, HEC sales exceeded HK $37 billion, averaging over HK $100 million per day.
吴天海在回应海港城商铺空置一事时称，个别铺面围板不代表无人承租，有可能正值装修。
In response to the vacancy in the Harbour City shop, Mr Ng said that the individual surfacing panels did not represent unoccupied tenancies and might be in the process of being renovated.
不过，他也承认，今年续租租金随市况变化而受压。
However, he concedes that this year's rent renewals are under pressure due to changing market conditions.
业绩受影响的不止九置。
Performance was affected by more than nine factors.
据港媒报道，2月底，香港中环另一大型地标商场IFC Mall场内，也有10个铺位封板。
Hong Kong media reported that at the end of February, there were also 10 bunk covers at the IFC Mall, another major landmark in Central Hong Kong.
持有IFC Mall、沙田新城市广场、APM、上水广场等20余个购物中心的新鸿基地产在最新财报中也提到，集团的零售业务组合无可避免受到不同程度的影响，续租及新租租金面对短期压力。
Sun Hung Kai Properties, which owns more than 20 shopping centres including IFC Mall, Shatin New Town Plaza, APM and Sheung Shui Plaza, also reported in its latest financial statement that the group's retail portfolio is inevitably affected to varying degrees, with short-term pressure on renewal and new rents.
去年的社会事件加上新冠疫情的双重打击，让香港商业遭受重创。
The combination of last year's social events and the double whammy of the New Crown has hit Hong Kong businesses hard.
3月3日，美联工商铺资料研究部发布了最新的香港核心区商户调查报告，今年1、2月份香港四大核心购物区尖沙嘴、旺角、铜锣湾及中环，街边空置商铺数量由去年9月的482家，在半年后急升43%至689家，空置率达9.2%。
A spokesman for the Commerce, Industry and Technology Bureau said today (March 3) that the number of vacant shops in the four core shopping districts of Hong Kong, namely Tsim Sha Tsui, Mong Kok, Causeway Bay and Central, rose sharply from 482 in September to 689 a year later, representing a 9.2% vacancy rate.
是该公司自2016年有统计以来的新高。
It is the company's highest level since 2016, when statistics became available.
这场寒冬，也让香港各界决定守望相助。
The cold winter has also made Hong Kong people decide to keep watch.
2月11日，香港地产建设商会发布了一份声明，指出鉴于零售餐饮业当前的困难境况，旗下会员将继续与有需要的租户按个别情况探讨各种可行办法，包括提供宽减租金等措施，以纾缓他们的经营压力。
On February 11, the Real Estate Developers Association of Hong Kong issued a statement stating that in view of the difficult circumstances prevailing in the retail catering industry, its members would continue to explore with tenants in need, on a case-by-case basis, various options, including rent relief measures, to alleviate their business pressure.
新鸿基地产、新世界集团、恒隆地产和太古地产纷纷响应，或减免租金，或承诺加强推广，以共度时艰。
Sun Hung Kai Properties, New World Group, Hang Lung Estate and Swire Real Estate responded by offering rent relief or promising to step up promotion to meet the tough times.
这些地产公司的减免措施，将覆盖大量香港核心商场。
The relief measures for these property companies will cover a large number of core shopping centres in Hong Kong.
也有地产商在权衡之下，选择优化资产组合。
Also has the real estate business under the trade-off, selects optimizes the assets portfolio.
2月26日，大型地产商新世界发展有限公司宣布作价30亿港元，向香港地铁出售其持有的九龙湾德福广场二期商场及将军澳PopCorn 2商场收益权。
On February 26, New World Development Limited, a major property developer, announced a HK $3 billion sale to the Hong Kong MTR of its share of the proceeds from the Kowloon Bay Phase II Plaza and PopCorn 2 Market, Tseung Kwan O.
新世界发展有限公司的执行副主席郑志刚，在2月28日举办的2020财政年度中期业绩会上解释称，出售并不是看淡后市，这些非核心资产大多是很多年前买入的股权占比较小的资产，清售更多是一种优化组合的作用。
Zheng Zhigang, executive vice-chairman of New World Development Limited, explained at the mid-term results session for fiscal year 2020 on February 28 that the sale was not a bearish market and that most of these non-core assets were relatively small-scale assets purchased many years ago.
“现金为王”，也是公司应对当前困难时期的策略。
"Cash is king" is also the company's strategy to deal with the current difficult times.
但无论时下情况如何，几乎所有商家都在强调对未来持有信心。
But no matter what the current situation, almost all businesses are emphasizing confidence in the future.
郑志刚称，公司目前有充足的实力能够化危为机，有充足的现金可以用。
Zheng Zhigang said that the company now has sufficient strength to turn the crisis into an opportunity, there is enough cash to use.
未来合适的时间还会入市，继续增强核心业务。
Will enter the market at an appropriate time in the future, continue to strengthen the core business.
吴天海则表示，经营商场不是看短线，中长线来看，以香港的吸引力，游客生意会复苏，相信可重返以往水平，甚至更上层楼。
Mr Ng said shopping malls were not operated on a short-term basis. In the medium and long term, the attractiveness of Hong Kong would lead to a revival of tourist business and a return to previous levels or even higher.
只要能继续维持方针，有实力捱过，仍然有前景。
So long as we can continue to maintain our policy, we will survive and still have prospects.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
香港购物中心集体陷落，业主降租、减持各寻生路。
Hong Kong shopping center collective fall, owners rent down, reduce their own way to find a way.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "香港购物中心集体陷落，业主降租、减持各寻生路";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "“去年的情况是第三、四季度越来越严重，今年第一季度更加差。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "Last year was worse in the third and fourth quarters and worse in the first quarter.
”";。
";;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
