媒体不死！武汉一线记者口述实录。
Media does not die! Wuhan first-line reporters oral record.
点击右边星标。
Click the star on the right.
一条                      。
One article.
一条。
One article.
每天一条原创短视频，每天讲述一个动人的故事，每天精选人间美物，每天来和我一起过美好的生活。
Every day an original short video, tell a moving story every day, select the best things in the world, and come and live a good life with me every day.
。
.
数据来源：新浪武汉肺炎疫情实时追踪截至1月29日7时，全国新型肺炎个案确诊5515例，目前患者数字仍呈现上升趋势。
Source: Real-time tracking of pneumonia in Wuhan As of 0700 hours on January 29, 5515 new cases of pneumonia were diagnosed nationwide, and the number of patients is still on the rise.
（画面来源：林晨同学Hearing）武汉成为全球新闻的焦点。
(Source: Lin Chen classmate Hearing) Wuhan has become the focus of global news.
和许多医护人员一样，各大媒体从业者，也第一时间“逆行”来到武汉，展开新闻报道和追踪。
Like many medical personnel, major media practitioners, also the first time to "retrograde" to Wuhan, news coverage and tracking.
采访对象肖像（左起）：敖慕麟、任江波、赵云飞、刘海川一条采访了4名现时在武汉一线的媒体人，他们来自不同传媒机构，有进出武汉两次、见证封城前后的90后新人记者；也有从业13年，不畏感染、只怕不在现场的资深前辈。
Portraits of interviewees (left): O-Gon, Ren Jianbo, Zhao Yun-fei and Liu Haichuan interviewed four media people from different media organizations who came to and from Wuhan twice to witness the 90-year-old journalists before and after the closure of Wuhan.
有穿上防护服、走进隔离病房最前线的深度报道记者；也有前新闻主编“临危受命”，一个人扛起电视台一天的现场报道。
There were in-depth reporters wearing protective clothing and walking into the front lines of the isolation ward; there were also former news editors-in-chief "on mission," one carrying a day's live television coverage.
今天，我们能安坐家中，全方位地掌握疫情资讯，离不开他们在当地，把一个又一个最新最有价值的消息，从武汉传播到全世界。
Today, we can sit at home, all aspects of the epidemic information, inseparable from their local, the latest and most valuable news, from Wuhan to the world.
正如诺贝尔经济学得奖者阿玛蒂亚·森所说：“新闻自由，是灾难最大的救助者。
As Nobel laureate Amartya Sen put it: "Freedom of the press is the greatest savior of disasters.
”编辑莫竣威 江雁南赵云飞（图片来源：CGTN）“陌生人的留言，让我意识到：我现在处在全世界新闻的最中心。
"From a stranger's message, I realized that I am now at the center of the world's news.
”赵云飞-英语记者从业3年中国国际电视台CGTN 我是1月19号到达武汉，正好是第二宗死亡案例公布的前后，到现在已经待了超过一周。
2007-9-25 21: 23 I arrived in Wuhan on January 19, just before and after the second death, and have been in Wuhan for more than a week.
前往武汉前，赵云飞在郑州进行春运的报道工作其实1月11日的时候我也来过一次，但当时没那么严重。
Before heading to Wuhan, Zhao Yun-fei reported on the spring trip to Zhengzhou, which I did on January 11, but it wasn't so serious at the time.
第二次来武汉之前，我一直在郑州做春运的报道以及香港选题的策划。
Before my second visit to Wuhan, I had been reporting on the Spring Festival transportation in Zhengzhou and planning the selection of topics for Hong Kong.
我当时预计只会在武汉停留3、4天，就该飞去香港值班了，今年春节本身就计划在工作中度过。
I only expected to stay in Wuhan for 3 or 4 days, it is time to fly to Hong Kong on duty, the Spring Festival itself is planned to spend in the work.
所以我行李也没带多少，就备了3、4天的衣服。
So I didn't bring much luggage, so I had three or four days of clothes.
谁知到了武汉，每天新增病患的数据开始猛涨，后来又开始大面积的交通停止。
Who knows, Wuhan, every day the number of new patients began to skyrocket, and then began to large areas of traffic stopped.
1月23日10点，武汉汉口火车站暂时关闭这一周以来，我是看着武汉城区的变化：从一开始大家没有什么防御措施，接着戴口罩的人越来越多，直到钟南山出来说，病毒会人传人。
Wuhan Hankou Railway Station Closed at 10: 00 on January 23rd This week, I watched as Wuhan City changed: from the beginning there was little defense, and then more and more people wore masks until Zhong Nan Shan came out and said that the virus passed from person to person.
第2天早上出门，我的天啊！几乎没有人不戴口罩，你不戴口罩就是一个异类。
The next morning out of the house, my God! Almost no one is wearing a mask, you do not wear a mask is an alien.
包括我们去开记者会，全场记者都戴了口罩，很多眼熟的同行，我根本就认不出来谁是谁。
We went to a press conference, the whole press was wearing masks, many familiar colleagues, I can not recognize who is who.
我们入住的酒店，门前有一条很热闹的小吃街。
The hotel we stayed in had a busy snack street in front of our door.
武汉人吃热干面、臭豆腐，都是用纸碗端着，一边走一边吃，吃完就把纸碗一扔；酒店刚入住的时候，里面还播贺年音乐。
Wuhan people eat hot-and-dry noodles, stinky tofu, are held in paper bowls, eat while walking, eat a bowl of paper; when the hotel first check-in, there is New Year's music.
慢慢直到有死亡的案例出现，开始封城，市面就逐渐萧条起来。
Slowly until the death of the case, began to close the city, the market gradually depressed.
报道团队在去直播连线的路上我们是CGTN第一个到武汉的报道团队，是四个男生。
On the way to the live link, we are the first CGTN report team to Wuhan, four boys.
除了司机师傅之外，其他三个都是90后，我是记者，另外两个是摄影和制片。
Except for the driver, the other three are 90, I'm a reporter, and the other two are photographers and filmmakers.
我有一个特别的感受，这场疫情让大家的社会关系反而更近一些。
I have a special feeling that the epidemic is bringing people's social relationships closer together.
像我们跟酒店的人沟通，他们知道我们是记者，对我们很好，帮我们解决了一日三餐；以前到外面用餐，点菜、吃饭、结账就走了，因为这件事情，我们和老板都会相互交流。
Like we talked to the people at the hotel, they knew we were journalists, they were good for us, they helped us with three meals a day; we used to go out to dinner, order, eat, check out, because it was something we both talked to each other.
我们在正在兴建的火神山医院工地采访，总工程师跟我们说，他现在顾不上这么多，这个医院他就得一个礼拜建好。
We were talking to the construction site of Mount Fujimori Hospital and the chief engineer told us that he couldn't take care of so much and that he would have to build the hospital in a week.
1月24日年三十那天，晚上需要到在武汉市肺科医院进行采访。
January 24th, the 30th day of the evening need to go to Wuhan City lung hospital for an interview.
午饭的时候，小伙伴自己生怕之后会发生点什么，我就开玩笑地说，今天我们就不喝酒，喝这个算了。
At lunch time, the little partner was afraid of what would happen, I jokingly said, today we do not drink alcohol, drink this.
我们用抗病毒口服液，碰了个“杯”，算是很有仪式感地过了节。
We used antiviral oral liquid, touched a "cup", is a very ceremonial festival.
在医院进行采访（画面来源：CGTN）到医院做采访，我们去了一个隔离病房。
In the hospital interview (screen: CGTN) to the hospital to do an interview, we went to an isolation ward.
必须要穿防护服进去。
You have to wear protective clothing.
一套大概有7件配件，它是连体的，衣服有两层，然后口罩、帽子、眼镜、手套、鞋套。
A set of about seven accessories, it is conjoined, the clothing has two layers, then mask, hat, glasses, gloves, shoe cover.
穿防护服很麻烦，它必须在一个指定的小房间里面穿。
Wear protective clothing is troublesome. It must be worn in a designated small room.
防护服穿好后，鞋套穿上之前，脚不能落地，才能保证彻底的隔绝病菌，还需要有别人的帮忙，在我身后把衣服系好。
Wear protective clothing, shoe cover put on before the foot can not land, to ensure complete isolation of germs, but also need someone else's help, behind my back to tie up the clothes.
折腾了20分钟，我算是穿上了。
Twenty minutes of tossing. I'm getting dressed.
不一会儿已经觉得很闷热，密不透气。
It didn't take long for it to get stuffy and stuffy.
医生穿防护服的速度非常迅速（画面来源：CGTN）但是对于那些ICU的大夫来讲，他可以很快的速度，大概5分钟就自己全部穿好，非常专业。
Doctors wear protective clothing very quickly (source: CGTN) but for those ICU doctors, he can dress himself up quickly, in about five minutes, very professionally.
而且医生穿了好几套之后，还得在那个环境之下，去治疗病人。
And the doctor, after wearing several suits, had to treat the patient in that environment.
尤其是近视的大夫，本来就戴了一个眼镜，然后又套了大护目镜，如果再出汗，热气一喷，眼镜全是湿的，视线可能就变得模糊，但在病房又不能摘下来。
Especially myopic doctor, originally wore a pair of glasses, and then a large goggles, if perspiration, hot air, glasses are all wet, the vision may become blurred, but can not take off in the ward.
医护夫妇与儿子进行视频通话（画面来源：CGTN）在ICU采访，我们遇到好多案例：一个医生，他初八就要结婚了，结果因为这件事情就得把婚期给延后；有一个护士，是个小姑娘。
(Source: CGTN) In an ICU interview, we met several cases of a doctor who was getting married on the eighth day of his junior high school and had to postpone the wedding because of it.
她说你别拍我，因为我根本就没有告诉爸妈，我来了重症病房工作。
She said you don't shoot me because I didn't tell Mom or Dad, I came to work in the intensive care unit.
碰到了一对夫妻，丈夫他是ICU主任，妻子是发热病房的护士，他们在两个病房，很少见到，大年三十夫妻唯一一次见面，就是两个人给他们儿子，打了个电话，祝他新年快乐。
I met a couple whose husband was the director of ICU and his wife was a nurse in the fever ward. They were in two wards and rarely saw each other.
这个发热病房的护士谈到自己没有照顾好儿子，她就哭了。
The nurse in the fever ward talked about not taking good care of her son and she began to cry.
他们宣传部的人就跟我说，哭的这段别播出去，因为怕这会显得他们很懦弱。
The people in their propaganda department told me not to broadcast the weeping part, for fear that it would appear that they were weak.
但我的考虑是，我们都是人啊。
But my thinking is, we're all human.
当你在极度高风险和紧张的情况下工作，确实很容易崩溃。
When you work in extremely high-risk and stressful situations, it can easily break down.
为什么不能呈现给观众？需要让大家知道，这是很正常的一件事情。
Why not show it to the audience? You need to know that this is a normal thing to do.
（画面来源：CGTN）这一周，我做了无数的电视直播连线、电话连线，然后突发新闻的文字推送、新闻故事的采写，新闻发布会的跟进等等。
(Source: CGTN) This week, I made countless live television connections, phone calls, text-push breaking news, news story taking, follow-up to press conferences, etc.
我来武汉之前，并没有跟爸妈讲。
Before I came to Wuhan, I didn't tell my parents.
因为我这3年一直在出差。
Because I have been on business for 3 years.
以前刚从业的时候，每到一个新的城市都会告诉他们，现在已经不会这样了。
In the old days, every new city would tell them that this was not going to happen anymore.
后来疫情严重了，我才跟他们说，我在武汉。
Then the outbreak became so serious that I told them I was in Wuhan.
他们嘱咐我，多注意安全，没有再表示过任何的焦虑。
They told me to be safe and not to express any more anxiety.
虽然我知道他们内心是很担心的，但他们不会开口说。
Although I know they're worried inside, they don't talk.
我收到了很多朋友的关心，包括拜年的短信，我现在都没有办法一一回复。
I received a lot of concern from friends, including the New Year message, I can not answer one by one now.
最感动的，是微博上有好多我不认识的人，给我留言，然后让我多保重。
What moved me most was that there were a lot of people I didn't know on Weibo. Leave me a message and tell me to take care of myself.
微博上的留言刚刚我就看到一条评论说，她妈妈就在重症病房里，因为一直不能进去探病，她一直没有看清医生们的正脸，只能听到他的声音。
I had just seen a comment on the microblog saying that her mother was in the intensive care unit and that she had been unable to see the doctors' faces and could only hear his voice because she had been unable to visit them.
正好看到我的采访，她才终于知道，治疗她妈妈的医生主任是长什么样子。
It was just in time to see my interview that she finally found out what the director of the doctor who treated her mother looked like.
感谢我做了这样的报道。
Thank you for the report.
我就突然间意识到，原来我的报道是对每个人都很重要，因为我现在处在全世界新闻的最中心。
Suddenly I realized that my story was important to everyone, because I was at the center of the world's news.
任江波（左）“如果感染了，就把自己隔离，多休息、多喝水，也不告诉家人。
Ren Jianbo (left) "If you get infected, isolate yourself, take more rest, drink more water and don't tell your family.
”任江波-深度报道中心记者 从业6年红星新闻（四川）1月20日，武汉的疫情变得严重，我曾经在武汉念大学，在那儿待过7年，也有很多亲戚朋友在那里，便主动向报社请缨。
"Ren Jianbo - In-depth Reporting Center Journalist Six years of Red Star News (Sichuan) January 20, Wuhan, where I was a university student, spent seven years there, and there were many relatives and friends who volunteered to work for the newspaper.
21日下午5时，我从成都出发前往武汉。
I left Chengdu for Wuhan at 5 p.m. on the 21st.
我是19年8月刚刚加入红星新闻深度报道中心的记者，再过一个月满30岁。
I'm a reporter who joined Red Star News in-depth coverage in August 19 and will be turning 30 in a month.
武汉封城后的24小时 （画面来源：林晨同学Hearing）去武汉之前，我打电话给了我表姐，她在武汉的一家三甲医院当眼科医生，当时她告诉我情况已经不好了，据她了解，眼科医生都有感染的。
24 hours after Wuhan closed the city (screen: Lin Chen classmate Hearing) before going to Wuhan, I called my cousin, she was an ophthalmologist in Wuhan, a triple A hospital, when she told me the situation was bad, according to her understanding, ophthalmologists are infected.
由于发热门诊的人太多，他们的办公室也被征用，还跟我讲了一个被感染医生的事例。
Because there were so many people at the fever clinic, their offices were requisitioned, and I was told of an infected doctor.
我也和妈妈、老婆打电话交代了下。
I also called my mother and wife to tell me.
妈妈在湖北襄阳、老婆在湖北孝感。
Mother in Hubei Xiangyang, wife in Hubei filial piety.
他们当然反对，但也知道我执意要去的是劝不住我的。
They objected, of course, but they knew that it was impossible to persuade me to go.
封城初期，武汉本地的药房部分药物出现缺货我所有带的行李只有一个双肩包和一个小挎包，带着换洗的内衣、电脑和采访本。
In the early days of the city, Wuhan local pharmacy some drugs were out of stock. All I had was a shoulder bag and a satchel with change-over underwear, computers and an interview book.
当时知道武汉缺口罩，我就带了五六个PM2.5的口罩，这个可以反复多次使用。
I knew that Wuhan gap cover, I took five or six PM2. 5 masks, this can be used many times.
另外带了五六包外科医用一次性的口罩，每包有十个。
Another five or six bags of surgical disposable masks, each containing ten.
还有几盒奥司他韦，这个在成都也已经很难买到了。
There are also boxes of oseltamivir, which are hard to find in Chengdu.
我吃了几天，后来都说这个只是防甲流的，其实没什么用。
I ate it for a few days and later said it was just anti-armour, but it didn't really work.
我刚开始还是比较淡定的，判断当时的死亡率不是特别高，而且去世的都是七八十岁，并伴有其他并发症的老年患者。
I was still relatively calm at the beginning, judging that the death rate was not particularly high, and that all of the deceased were elderly patients aged 78 years and with other complications.
我觉得只要防护措施到位，并且休息充足、免疫力强，没有大碍，不用过分紧张。
I feel as long as protective measures are in place, adequate rest, immunity, no harm, no undue stress.
封城前一晚的武汉刚抵达武汉的时候，武汉和我想象中差不多。
When Wuhan arrived in Wuhan the night before last, Wuhan was much the same as I had expected.
我在这里生活了7年，很了解这里的人。
I've lived here for seven years and I know people here very well.
典型的“不信邪，不服周。
Typical "unbelieving evil, disobedient week."
”紧迫感还没有外地强（不服周，是湖北人说话的特色词汇，常用于不服气和不甘心的时候）。
"The sense of urgency is not strong in the field (disobedient week, is the characteristic vocabulary of Hubei people, often used in unconvinced and unwilling time).
21日抵达当天，同学来机场接我，我们一起吃饭，路上走，行人也没多少戴口罩的。
On the day of my arrival, my classmates met me at the airport. We ate together, walked along the road, and pedestrians did not wear many masks.
最开始的两天采访，我们的防护措施也只是口罩。
For the first two days of the interview, our protective measures were just masks.
在华南海鲜市场附近采访22日，我和同事兵分两路，各自跑武汉的几大医院，海鲜市场还有汉口火车站。
South China Seafood Market in the vicinity of the 22, my colleagues and I separated into two ways, each to Wuhan several major hospitals, seafood market and Hankou Railway Station.
我在医院采访了一天，包括武汉中心医院后湖院区和金银潭医院。
I interviewed in the hospital for a day, including Wuhan central hospital back lake courtyard area and gold and silver pool hospital.
见到门诊大厅里都是排队打针的病人，挂呼吸科的号就需要排5、6个小时。
Seeing the patient queuing up in the outpatient department hall, the number of the respiratory department had to wait five or six hours.
由于缺乏试剂盒，很多人病情不能诊断出来，医生也无能为力。
Because of the lack of kits, many people cannot be diagnosed and doctors are powerless to do so.
隔离病房内医护人员与患者（图片来源：红星新闻）我们心里清楚这几天都是在风险最高的前线。
Isolation Ward Medical Staff and Patients (Source: Red Star News) We know these days are on the front lines of highest risk.
我们尽量在医院不待太长时间，待一段时间就多出来透气。
We try not to stay in the hospital too long. We stay for a while and breathe more.
而金银潭医院作为隔离医院，记者是根本无法靠近的。
But the gold and silver pool hospital as the quarantine hospital, the reporter is unable to approach.
1月23日大年夜那天晚上，我在中南医院的重症监护室的医护人员休息室里，和医生护士们一起吃了年夜饭——就是盒饭和酸奶，并且用酸奶碰了个杯。
On the evening of January 23, I had dinner with doctors and nurses in the staff lounge of the intensive care unit of Zhongnan Hospital - packed lunch and yogurt, and touched a cup with yogurt.
除了日子特殊一点，其他都和平常正常值班一样。
Except for a few special days, everything else is the same as normal duty.
我也是回到酒店看网上的视频才知道，有些医院的医生因为高强度的工作，情绪崩溃嚎啕大哭。
I also returned to the hotel to watch the video on the Internet only to know that some hospital doctors because of the intensity of their work, emotional collapse wailing.
与中南医院医护人员吃年夜饭（图片来源：红星新闻）休息室里的消毒做得很好，24小时的紫外线消毒，可以不用戴口罩和穿防护服。
Disinfect the rest room of the Central South Hospital (Source: Red Star News) well, 24 hours of UV disinfection, no mask and no protective clothing.
在中南医院里，物资没有到匮乏的程度，但还是非常紧缺的。
In the south-central hospital, supplies are not in short supply, but they are still in short supply.
防护服是一次性的，每天平均要消耗三套，口罩供应也很有限。
The suits are disposable, consuming an average of three sets a day, and the supply of masks is limited.
在火神山隔离医院施工现场采访1月24日，我去了武汉正在加紧建设的火神山隔离医院现场，那也是我第一次做直播，自己拿手机拍摄。
On January 24, I went to Wuhan, where I was working to build the fire-god mountain isolation hospital. It was my first live broadcast and I took my own mobile phone.
第一次感到紧张是1月23日封城的那天，凌晨2点多同事给我打电话，告诉我他朋友的亲人确诊后去世了。
The first time I felt nervous was on the day of the city's closure on January 23, when my colleague called me at 2 a.m. to tell me that his friend's family had passed away after being diagnosed.
另一次是1月24日，在医院采访时为了避免使用客梯，我去用货梯，上面写着患者通道。
Another time, on January 24th, in an interview with the hospital, to avoid using the passenger elevator, I used a cargo ladder with a patient passageway written on it.
电梯停靠开门后，迎面而来的是一位穿着防护服的护士，手里拎着一袋医用垃圾，而我仅仅只是戴了层口罩，觉得自己暴露在病毒里，当时真的心有余悸。
When the elevator pulled in, I was greeted by a nurse in protective clothing, carrying a bag of medical garbage, and I was just wearing a mask and feeling really frightened.
大年夜晚上11点，我给老婆打了电话，12点给妈妈打电话。
I called my wife at 11: 00 p.m. and my mother at 12: 00.
这几天妈妈一次都没有联系过我，怕我前线很忙。
My mother has not contacted me once these days, afraid I am very busy on the front line.
出发前只提醒我，“这两天你可以不打电话，但给我发个微信，不管发什么都行。
Just remind me before you leave, "You can not call me these two days, but send me a message, no matter what.
”采访武汉社区应急网约车车队尽管封城了，我也没想过离开武汉，离开了又能去哪儿呢，这个情况也不能回家见家人。
Interview Wuhan Community Emergency Response Network car convoy Despite the closure of the city, I did not want to leave Wuhan, leaving where can I go, this situation can not see their families.
除了跑新闻，我的信息获取也是来自朋友圈和微信里的各个群。
In addition to running the news, my access to information comes from a variety of groups in my circle of friends and micro-letters.
尽管身处最前方也是有盲区的，我们看到的视野比较窄，前方的真实是有限的真实，网上的信息是全方位的。
Although there is a blind area in the front, we see a narrow field of vision, the front of the truth is limited by the real, on-line information is all-round.
这次能够分到前线部门我很开心。
I'm happy to be assigned to the front line this time.
我也想过要是感染了，就把自己隔离，多休息、多喝水，也不告诉家人。
I also thought that if I got infected, I would isolate myself, take more rest, drink more water, and not tell my family.
做记者这么多年，经历过媒体行业的兴衰变迁。
As a journalist for so many years, I have experienced the ups and downs of the media industry.
但我从来没有想过离开传媒，不做记者。
But I never thought of leaving the media to be a journalist.
这依然是我热爱的行业。
It's still my passion.
敖慕麟（画面来源：凤凰卫视）“临危受命”的我一个人顶一个团队敖慕麟-前新闻主编 从业7年凤凰卫视1月24号，现在我接受一条采访的位置，离这次疫情的核心区华南海鲜市场大概10分钟车程。
2007-9-19 15: 23 [hide] "Og Mulin, a man on mission I was working as a team for seven years on Phoenix TV January 24, and now I'm in an interview about 10 minutes away from the South China seafood market, the epicentre of the outbreak.
我是武汉本地人，这大半年我一直生活在这里。
I am a native of Wuhan, where I have lived for most of the year.
其实2017年我已经离开了传媒行业，去从事企业社会责任方面的工作。
In fact, I left the media industry in 2017 to work on corporate social responsibility.
我大学是读新闻的，之前在凤凰卫视做过记者和新闻主编。
I was reading the news in college and had been a reporter and editor-in-chief on Phoenix TV.
这次能参与到疫情的报道中，对我来说很突然。
It came as a surprise to me to be part of the story of the outbreak.
1月23日，也就是武汉开始封城那天，我是被前同事的来电叫醒。
On January 23, the day Wuhan began to close, I was woken up by a call from a former colleague.
虽然我在武汉，但封城的消息也是他们告诉我才知道的：武汉今天开始公共交通暂停，飞机、火车出城的通道会陆续关闭。
Although I was in Wuhan, they told me the news of the city closure: Wuhan began to suspend public transport today, aircraft, trains out of the city will be closed.
封城后的武汉市面这在我的印象中是历史上的第一次，前所未有。
This is the first time in my history that Wuhan city after the closure of the city is unprecedented.
因为公告在凌晨两点发出，很多人都在睡梦中，根本不知道。
Because the announcement came at 2 a. m. many people were asleep and didn't know it.
那天还是工作日，有朋友早上还照常去上班，结果在途中被单位通知说赶紧回家休息。
It was a weekday, and a friend went to work as usual in the morning and was told by his work unit to go home for a rest.
9点半接到电话，凤凰卫视的同事说，10点钟的正点新闻直播，想跟我做电话连线报道。
I got a call at 9: 30, and Phoenix TV's colleague said the 10 o'clock news was on the air and wanted to call me to report.
对于封城，我完全来不及震惊和思考，接到电话以后穿上衣服就下楼了。
For the closure of the city, I had no time to shock and think, after receiving the phone put on clothes and went downstairs.
一个人用电话进行视像报道（画面来源：凤凰卫视）我先在住的地方逛了一圈，观察周边的情况。
(Source: Order of the Phoenix Satellite TV) I took a tour of where I lived to see what was going on.
往年除夕，交通还是挺繁忙的，大家都在办年货。
Usually New Year's Eve, the traffic is still quite busy, we are doing New Year's goods.
现在路面上的车流量大幅减少，有些餐厅已经关门停业。
Traffic on the roads has now been drastically reduced and some restaurants have been closed.
到了10点，我跟主播连了线，现场阐述了一下我在武汉看到的情况。
At 10 o'clock, I and the anchor line, the scene of what I saw in Wuhan.
当时有一点紧张，不是因为疫情，是因为我很久没有做连线了。
There was a bit of tension, not because of the outbreak, because I haven't had a connection for a long time.
我没有摄影师，没有团队，全程都是我一个人。
I don't have a photographer, I don't have a team, I'm all alone.
拿着手机、自拍杆、耳机，用最简陋的设备，完成采访、出镜、直播连线报道，做了两条视像报道，三条音频报道，两次电话连线、还有两次的视像连线，当天一直工作到深夜。
Holding cell phones, laptops, headphones and using the most rudimentary equipment, he completed interviews, appearances and live wire coverage, made two video reports, three audio reports, two telephone connections and two video links, and worked the same day until midnight.
武汉市民在药房购买物资我也去了周边拍视频素材，包括路面、地铁口、市民在药房购买防护物资等等。
Wuhan people in the pharmacy to buy supplies I also went around the shooting video materials, including the road, subway entrance, the public at the pharmacy to buy protective materials, and so on.
当时药店里面有人不戴口罩，有民众就去劝他，但是他还是不听。
At that time, some people in the pharmacy did not wear masks, people to persuade him, but he did not listen.
药店店主告诉我，他卖的一次性的外科口罩50个一盒，50块。
The drugstore owner told me that he was selling 50 boxes of disposable surgical masks for $50.
他就说一句，这个价格肯定是跟平时一样，我们关键时候肯定不会”发国难财”。
He said that the price must be the same as usual, we certainly will not "make the country difficult to make money."
武汉地铁贴出停运公告我主要集中报道市面的情况，没有去医院，因为我的防护措施只有口罩，必须避免很多不确定的情况，要保护自己，对自己负责。
Wuhan Metro posted the notice of suspension I mainly focus on the situation in the market, not to go to the hospital, because my protective measures only mask, must avoid many uncertain situations, to protect themselves, to be accountable to themselves.
秋冬季节，本身感冒、发烧的病患就多。
Autumn and winter season, their own cold, fever patients are more.
事实上一月初的时候，我也曾经有咳嗽、发烧的症状。
In fact, I also had cough and fever in early January.
当时去医院看病，医生说是普通感冒，没有什么炎症，查了甲流是阴性，拍了胸片也没有问题，现在是好了。
At that time went to the hospital to see a doctor, the doctor said is common cold, no inflammation, check A flow is negative, took a chest film is no problem, now is good.
与新闻节目进行视像连线（画面来源：凤凰卫视）那时候看症的速度很快，大概半个小时左右，因为都是网上预约，然后到时间就去。
Video-link with news shows (source: Phoenix Satellite TV) At that time the disease was very fast, about half an hour, because it was all online appointments, and then time to go.
那几天武汉已经是在通报新型肺炎了。
Wuhan was already announcing a new type of pneumonia in those days.
我当时看到医院里面呼吸内科的医生，每天接诊量很大，但包括医生也好，病人也好，防护措施并不充足。
I saw a doctor in the respiratory department of the hospital who received a large number of consultations every day, but the measures of protection, both for the doctor and the patient, were inadequate.
有些病人是没有戴口罩的，包括我自己也是。
Some patients are not wearing masks, including myself.
与新闻节目进行电话连线（画面来源：凤凰卫视）有很多朋友看到我在凤凰的报道，大家第一关心是我的身体状况。
Telephone connection with the news program (source: Phoenix Satellite TV) There are many friends to see my report in Phoenix, the first concern is my physical condition.
24号开始，台里面也陆续派采访团队过来了。
Starting on the 24th, the interview team from inside the station is coming.
理想、使命先不谈，我现在最希望的是，把我看到的以及我了解到的情况，能够及时地传递出去。
Ideal, mission aside, what I want most now is to pass on what I have seen and learned in time.
因为这种公开的、透明的信息流通也是防疫很关键的一步。
This open and transparent flow of information is also a critical step in immunization.
刘海川“在武汉并没有太大的担忧，毕竟去现场就是记者的天职。
Liu Haichuan "in Wuhan is not too worried, after all to go to the scene is the vocation of journalists.
”刘海川-报道总监从业13年界面新闻封城第一天，在武汉火车站看到的情景让我瞠目结舌。
"Liu Haichuan - Reporting Director 13 Years of Interface News Seal the City On the first day, I was astounded to see what I saw at Wuhan Railway Station.
我曾经在这里学习和生活过8年，我很熟悉这里，对这里也很有感情。
I have studied and lived here for 8 years. I am familiar with it and I have a lot of affection for it.
武汉人是很热烈的，从他们说话时的大嗓门就看得出来。
Wuhan people are very warm, as can be seen from the loud voice when they speak.
年近岁晚，本应热闹的年货超市，因疫情出现人流稀少（图片来源：界面新闻）但那天晚上9点多，火车站空空荡荡，陆续有火车抵达武汉，人们说话都很少，大家都很沉默，这极不符合武汉气质，而且所有人走路都非常急。
2007-9-25 21: 53 By the end of the year, the supposedly busy New Year's supermarket was sparsely populated by the epidemic. But by 9pm that night, the railway station was empty and trains were arriving in Wuhan.
出租车也变得不一样，首先我坐的出租车不打表。
Taxis have become different too. First of all, I take a taxi without a meter.
你告诉他去哪儿，价格涨了两三倍。
The price went up two or three times when you told him where to go.
我们问他：“这么严重，为什么出来跑出租？”司机说，“都待在这儿了，出不出来都一样危险。
We asked him, "Why do you come out for a taxi?" The driver said, "It's just as dangerous to stay here as not to get out.
”我瞬间觉得这个城市我不认识了，处在一种惊惧的状态。
"I felt in an instant that I did not know the city, and was in a state of terror.
不知道接下来会发生什么。
I don't know what will happen next.
封城后的路面几乎没有汽车封锁的措施一日比一日更严格，1月24日是到处都在测体温；25日，市中心城区不让机动车运行了。
The road behind the city was almost impassable as the day wore on, with temperatures being taken everywhere on January 24th and motor vehicles not allowed to move in the city centre on January 25th.
未来还会逐步地升级，但这会产生一系列的问题，武汉的基本生活怎么保证、又如何运转。
The future will be gradually upgraded, but this will give rise to a series of questions, Wuhan how to ensure the basic life and how to operate.
比如很多患者，不仅仅是肺炎患者、疑似感染者，也包括其他病人、出行不便的人，他们的需求和困难如何解决。
For example, many patients, not only pneumonia patients, suspected infected people, but also other patients, inconvenient people, their needs and difficulties how to solve.
这都是问题，然而这个城市是没有做好准备的。
It's all a problem, but the city is not prepared.
同事们给我凑齐了一些防护措施，武汉前线包括我在内总共有三位同事，我们自备了N95的口罩30个、护目镜4个、防护服10套，这是能带来武汉最大的量，但我也知道这显然是不够的。
Colleagues have assembled some protective measures for me, Wuhan frontline including me a total of three colleagues, we have brought N95 masks, 4 goggles, 10 suits of protective clothing, this can bring the largest amount of Wuhan, but I also know that this is obviously not enough.
采访的新型肺炎疑似患者爱写诗，她说康复后想继续写（图片来源：界面新闻）24日大年夜这天，我们采访了一个疑似患者的家庭、一个普通家庭，也去采访了医院和在建中的火神山隔离医院。
We interviewed a family of suspected patients, an ordinary family, and visited the hospital and the Fire Goddess Isolation Hospital, which is under construction.
采访疑似患者家庭，他们的状态是很挣扎的，大家不知道未来的命运在哪里，像大海上随波飘荡的小船，大家不知道会遭遇什么。
Interview the families of the suspected patients, their state is very struggling, we do not know where the fate of the future, like the sea drift boat, we do not know what will happen.
大年夜那天，我和同事们也没有吃年夜饭，下午吃了碗牛肉面。
On New Year's Eve, my colleagues and I also did not eat Chinese New Year's Eve meal, the afternoon of a bowl of beef noodles.
整个武汉也很寂静，这就是武汉大年夜晚上的状态。
Wuhan is also very quiet, this is the state of Wuhan New Year's Eve.
1月28日，刘海川进入新型肺炎的定点收治医院武汉金银潭医院进行采访我做了十多年的记者，过去多是跑法治、调查和特稿，这也是职业生涯第一次跑这种重大的公共卫生事件。
January 28, Liu Haichuan into the fixed-point hospital for new pneumonia treatment hospital Wuhan gold and silver pool hospital for interviews I have been a reporter for more than 10 years, mostly run the rule of law, investigation and feature articles, this is also the first major public health event of my career.
在武汉并没有太大的顾虑和担忧，毕竟去现场就是记者的天职。
Wuhan does not have too much concern and worry, after all, to the scene is a reporter's vocation.
但25日这天，我觉得我和同事心态都有了微妙的变化。
But on the 25th, I felt a subtle change in my mindset and that of my colleagues.
就好像有点臆症，老觉得自己是不是有点发烧，我每隔几十分钟就跑到酒店前台去测体温。
As if in conjecture, feeling a little feverish, I went to the front desk every few decades to take a temperature check.
1月28日的武汉市面我在朋友圈写过一段封城第一天的感受：武汉，封城第一日。
Wuhan, the first day of the city, was the first day I wrote about it in a circle of friends.
人们的对话很少，语言都埋在薄口罩下。
People talk very little, and words are buried under thin masks.
火车站空空荡荡，霓虹灯无力地照亮地板，在寥寥的乘客出站后，检票员沉默地拉上了门闸。
The train station was empty, neon lights gleaming feebly on the floor, and after a few passengers had left the station, the conductor pulled the gate in silence.
出租车司机也一路无言，他打开音乐，试图缓和车内令人不安的寂静感。
The taxi driver was speechless as he turned on the music, trying to assuage the unsettling silence in the car.
他又关了它。
He shut it up again.
我会问这里的外乡人，为什么不赶在封城前回家。
I will ask the stranger here, why not hurry home in front of the city.
他们说，不出去，不给外面添麻烦。
They said not to go out, not to cause trouble outside.
这是一座城池的伟大。
This is the greatness of a city.
今年，全国的春节假期因为要配合防疫工作将进一步延长。
This year, the national spring festival holiday will be further extended to tie in with the epidemic prevention work.
面对疫情，我们可以从自身出发来防止病毒的感染和传播：一、戴口罩戴口罩是阻断呼吸道分泌物传播的有效手段。
Facing the epidemic, we can prevent the infection and spread of the virus from our own point of view: Wearing masks and masks is an effective way to block the transmission of respiratory secretions.
日常防护选择医用外科口罩就足够了。
Medical surgical masks are enough for daily protection.
N95口罩的防病效果更好，但透气性差，呼吸阻力较大，不适合长时间佩戴。
N95 mask disease prevention effect is better, but poor ventilation, respiratory resistance, not suitable for a long time wear.
戴口罩时，要将折面完全展开，将嘴、鼻、下颌完全包住，接着压紧鼻夹，使口罩与面部完全贴合。
When wearing a mask, unfold the face completely. Cover the mouth, nose and jaw completely. Then press the nose clip tightly to make the mask fit completely with the face.
戴口罩前应洗手，过程中避免以手接触到口罩内部。
Wash hands before wearing a mask. Avoid touching the inside of the mask with your hands.
洗手的正确姿势二、勤洗手在餐前、如厕后、外出回家、接触垃圾、抚摸动物后，要记得洗手。
Wash Your Hands Frequently Wash your hands before meals, after using the toilet, when going home, when touching garbage or after touching animals.
洗手时，要注意用流动水和使用洗手液或肥皂，揉搓的时间不少于 20 秒。
Wash your hands with running water and using hand sanitizer or soap for not less than 20 seconds.
打喷嚏或咳嗽时注意用纸巾或手臂遮盖口鼻。
Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue or arm when sneezing or coughing.
目前，新型冠状病毒被证实可通过接触传播，有人提出需要戴手套。
At present, the new coronavirus has been confirmed to be spread through contact, some people have suggested the need to wear gloves.
相关专家回答：一般在外环境中接触病毒是有限的，勤洗手就可以了。
Experts answer: General exposure to the virus in the outer environment is limited, frequent hand-washing can be.
三、注意通风居家每天都应该开窗通风一段时间，加强空气流通，以有效预防呼吸道传染病。
Ventilation Households should open windows for a period of time every day to enhance air ventilation to effectively prevent respiratory tract infections.
四、避免出门避免到人流密集的场所，封闭、空气不流通的公共场所和人多聚集的地方，如需出门，请佩戴口罩。
Avoid going out to crowded places, closed, airtight public places and crowded places. If you need to go out, please wear a mask.
疫情正在发生，我们都是历史的见证人。
The epidemic is happening, and we are all witnesses to history.
请做好防护，保护好自己和家人，共同迎接胜利的那一天。
Please do a good job to protect themselves and their families, together to meet the day of victory.
向所有在一线辛勤采访的新闻工作者致敬！封面图片来源：林晨同学Hearing部分图片由赵云飞、任江波、敖慕麟、刘海川提供防护资料参考《新型冠状病毒感染肺炎防护读本》疫情依然严峻，针对以下人群，我们正在寻找采访对象！#我在疫情一线#不论是您是在湖北还是全国其他地区，只要您是奋战在一线的医护人员、后勤补给人员、记者、患者或患者家属，我们希望听到您的见闻和最迫切的需求。
2007-9-19 19: 19 [hide] http: / / www.youtheme.cn [/ url] http: / / www.youtheme.cn [/ url] http: / / www.youtheme.cn [/ url] www.youtheme.cn We are looking for an interview with the following groups of people: # I am in the frontline medical personnel, logistics resupply personnel, journalists, patients or family members.
#我的武汉现场#如果您正身在武汉，如果您愿意讲述在“封城”后的实地体验见闻，我们希望把它传递给更多人。
# My Wuhan scene # If you are in Wuhan, if you are willing to describe the experience after the "closed" field experience, we hope to pass it on to more people.
请通过以下方式联系一条编辑，我们期盼您的消息！一条编辑部邮箱editor@yit.com或直接在文章下留言。
Please contact an editor in the following way. We are looking forward to hearing from you! An editorial office email editor @ yit.com or leave a message directly under the article.
请您留下所在地、职业，大致讲述您的见闻与故事，如合适我们将尽快与您取得联系，进行采访！如有图片也欢迎一并发来。
If appropriate, we will contact you as soon as possible for an interview. If you have any pictures, please let me know.
▼。
Why don't we do it?
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
媒体不死！武汉一线记者口述实录。
Media does not die! Wuhan first-line reporters oral record.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "一条";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "媒体不死！武汉一线记者口述实录";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; The media never died! Wuhan first-line reporter dictated & quot; & quot;
var title ="一条";。
var title = & quot; & quot; a & quot;;
