小区封门堵截返城者，这样的防疫措施真的好吗。
The area closes the door to block the return of the city, such vaccination measures really good.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 财经十一人。
The following article comes from eleven financial experts.
Author 王博 等。
Author Wang Bo etc.
财经十一人。
Eleven finance and economics.
由《财经》杂志公司产业报道团队创建，研讨企业成败，探究行业兴衰，推动阳光商业。
Founded by Caijing magazine's industry report team, it explores the success or failure of enterprises, probes into the ups and downs of the industry, and promotes sunshine business.
在法律界人士看来，各地自行采取的“封村”、“封小区”等极端做法涉嫌违法。
In the eyes of the legal profession, the various localities have taken their own "village closure," "closed areas" and other extreme practices suspected of violating the law.
防控疫情需要全国一盘棋，而不是“各扫门前雪”这家小区加强登记筛查但未将租客拒之门外文 |《财经》记者 王博 周源 陈潇潇 马霖 王凤 杨立赟 吴琼编辑 | 余乐租住在北京北七家镇东三旗村的王小山（化名）原计划初九坐火车回京，但现在他却担心回到北京也进不了家门。
Prevention and control of the epidemic requires a whole nation, not a 'snow sweep' program. 'Caijing' reporter Wang Boyuan Chen Xiaoxiao Ma Lin Wang Feng Li-yun Wang Qianyun, who rents a train back to Beijing for the ninth day of the year, fears he won't be able to get back to Beijing.
王小山是山西临汾人，在北京打工五年多。
Wang Shan, a Linfen from Shanxi, worked in Beijing for more than five years.
一年前，王小山在东三旗村84亩地租了个一居室，月租金1500左右。
A year ago, Wang Hill rented a one-room apartment in the East Sanqi village of 84 mu, at a monthly rent of about 1,500.
东三旗村84亩地紧邻地铁5号线天通苑北站，有多栋两层小楼，每栋楼能容纳20余住户，当地村民多用来出租。
East Sanqi Village 84 mu adjacent to the subway line 5 Tiantong Yuan North Station, there are a number of two-storey buildings, each can accommodate more than 20 households, the local villagers used to rent.
1月30日，北京市昌平区北七家镇北七家村村委会发布通知，宣布从当天开始禁止外地来京租户进入小区。
January 30, Beijing Changping District, seven north of the town of seven village committee issued a notice, announced that from the same day to prohibit non-residents Beijing tenants into the community.
北七家镇的其他社区也都采取了类似措施。
Similar measures have been taken by other communities in the seven northern townships.
房东给王小山打电话，告诉他“疫情结束之前不要回来”。
The landlord called Wang hill and told him not to return until the epidemic was over.
春节假期临近尾声，尽管各级政府纷纷出台延长假期、推迟返工时间的政策，但已经有越来越多人开始准备从老家返回北上广等城市。
As the Spring Festival draws to a close, more and more people are planning to return to cities such as Northbound Canton from their homes, despite government policies to extend holidays and postpone rework.
对于这些城市来说，如何避免外地返回人员带来的疫情确实是一大严峻考验，但简单粗暴地将这些人拒之门外，让他们无家可归，是否真的能对防控疫情起到积极作用？居委会、物业等机构禁止居民回家，又是否有足够的法理依据？“封村”、“封小区”，各地“土办法”频出类似北七家镇的封闭措施影响了相当多的人。
For these cities, how to avoid the epidemic caused by the return of people from the outside world is indeed a severe test, but whether the simple and brutal exclusion of these people and making them homeless can have a positive impact on the prevention and control of the epidemic?
叶亮（化名）是王小山所在公司的创始人兼CEO，其公司共有员工20余人，包括叶亮本人在内都是外地人（但无一湖北籍），也都回家过年了。
Ye Liang (alias) is the founder and CEO of Wang hill's company, which employs more than 20 people, including Ye Liang himself, who is a foreigner (but not a Hubei national) and who has returned home to celebrate the Chinese New Year.
叶亮说，现在公司有四名外地员工恐无法按时回京。
Ye said four of the company's non-resident staff may not be able to return to Beijing on time.
因为他们租的是“村里的房子”，其房东拒绝他们回来，除非手里有“14天在京安全证明”。
Because they rented "village houses," their landlords refused to let them back unless they had a "14-day security certificate in Beijing."
其它外地员工租住的是正规小区，目前还不存在“有家不能回”的情况。
Other non-resident workers are renting the formal community, there is no "home can not go back" situation.
北京昌平区东三旗村84亩地概览 来源：百度地图面对有家不能回的状况，王小山并没有愤怒，“也不是房东的意思，是村委会的决定。
An overview of 84 mu land in Dongsanqi Village, Changping District, Beijing: Baidu map in the face of a home can not go back to the situation, Wang Shan is not angry, "nor is it the landlord meaning, it is the village committee's decision.
”王小山对《财经》记者说。
'Mr. Wang told Caijing.
至于期间的租金如何计算，他也表示暂时还没有考虑。
As for the calculation of the rent for the period, he also indicated that it was not considered for the time being.
王小山承认，之所以没有愤怒的另一个原因是，他所在公司目前允许其延期返京。
Mr Wang admits another reason not to be angry is that his company now allows him to postpone his return to Beijing.
叶亮表示，虽然略有焦虑，但他也只能允许这四名员工延迟返京，“我想最多一个月（这种状况）也会结束了吧。
Mr Yip said he was only able to allow the four to delay their return to Beijing, despite some anxiety. "I think it will be over for up to a month."
”叶亮说。
"said Ye Liang.
但当记者问如果超出一个月会怎么样时，叶亮和王小山都觉得为难起来。
But when reporters asked what would happen if it was longer than a month, both Ye and Wang Hill felt embarrassed.
西湖新村小区同属北七家镇，这里的业主于洋（化名）1月29日从老家湖南顺利返京回到家中，但是，一些第二天从外地返京的邻居就没这么幸运了。
The owner, Yu Yang (not his real name), returned to Beijing from his hometown of Hunan on January 29, but some neighbors who returned to Beijing the next day were not so lucky.
“初五回来还让进小区，初六就封了，不只是租户，很多从外地返京的业主也进不来。
"The fifth day back into the community, on the sixth day of the seal, not only tenants, many from other places back to Beijing owners can not enter.
”于洋说。
"said Yu Yang.
1月30日，西湖新村小区群中物业发布通知：接北七家镇政府通知，为防止疫情进一步扩散，西湖新村小区已经封闭，外地返京人员不得进入。
On January 30, property release notice was issued in the West Lake New Village Cluster: Seven township governments in the north announced that to prevent further spread of the epidemic, the new West Lake Village had been closed to foreign visitors.
1月31日，《财经》记者致电西湖新村小区物业及居委会确认了这一消息。
On January 31, Caijing called the property and neighborhood committee of Xishuxin Village to confirm the news.
物业工作人员表示，物业没权力禁止住户回京，但无论是租户还是业主，现在回京都不能进小区，需要在外自行隔离14天，此后还需要到医院检查，提供相关健康证明，以及返京的行程轨迹。
Property staff said the property did not have the power to prohibit residents from returning to Beijing. However, tenants and owners are not allowed to return to Kyoto and need to be isolated outside for 14 days, after which they need to visit hospitals to provide relevant health certificates and return itineraries to Beijing.
《财经》记者采访发现，北京市朝阳区大屯路附近几个小区也采取了此种封闭手段。
"Caijing" reporters found that the Chaoyang District of Beijing, Datun Road, several small areas have also taken such closed means.
一位业主表示，进出大屯路几个小区，目前都需要携带身份证和房产证，也就是说，只有小区业主可以正常出入，租房的人员已经禁止返回，需要自行隔离14天，并且出示有效健康证明才可以正常进入。
A property owner said he now needed identity cards and property permits to enter and leave several areas along the road. This meant that only small-scale owners could enter the area normally, renters were barred from returning, had to be isolated for 14 days and had to produce a valid health certificate in order to be able to enter properly.
还有一些社区也采取了一定程度的封闭措施，但相对来说没有那么极端。
Other communities have adopted some degree of closure, but relatively less extreme.
王先生是北京市海淀区图景嘉园的租户，春节前返回老家过年，计划近期回北京上班。
Mr. Wang, a tenant in Haidian District of Beijing, returned to his hometown for the Spring Festival and plans to return to work in Beijing in the near future.
在网上看到图景嘉园等小区阻止外地返京人员进入的消息后，他在1月31日上午打电话联系了小区物业。
On the Internet to see the picture of Jiayuan and other small areas to prevent the entry of people back to Beijing, he called the residential property on January 31 morning.
物业告诉他，今天早上刚刚接到指示，除了湖北籍以外，其他地区的返京人员是可以进小区的，但是要填登记表并签署承诺书。
The property told him that he had just received instructions this morning that, with the exception of Hubei nationality, returning residents from other areas could enter the area, but only by filling out a registration form and signing a letter of commitment.
承诺书内容包括在家隔离14天，除了采买生活用品以外，不许出家门，另外每天需要测两次体温。
The actes d'engagement include 14 days of isolation at home, no more than the purchase of daily necessities, and two daily temperature tests.
物业还强调，如果不遵守以上条款，村委会将报警把人请出小区。
Property also stressed that if the above-mentioned provisions do not comply with the village committee will call the police out of the community.
通州的邓家窑西富河园小区也禁止返京湖北人进入，但邓家窑村委会征用了西富河园门口的一家尚客优酒店，让湖北返京人员先在酒店隔离两周。
The Tongzhou Dengjiayao Xifu Garden area is also forbidden to return to Hubei people, but the Tengjiayao Village Committee requisitioned a Shang Guoyou hotel in front of the gate of Xifu Heyuan, leaving Hubei Returnees isolated in the hotel for two weeks.
邓家窑村委会相关负责人表示，具体怎么安置返京人员上面没有具体安排，是村委会开会决定的。
Deng Jiayao Village Committee said that the specific how to put back to Beijing personnel above the specific arrangements, is the village committee meeting to decide.
“我们不让人家回家，得给人家找好住的地方，在隔离期间，被隔离居民的食品、生活用品我们都负责。
"We don't want people to go home, we have to find someone to live in, and we're responsible for the food and things for the isolated people during the isolation.
”据了解，邓家窑村委会已共计拿出了约30万元，租用了55间客房。
"It is understood that Deng Jiayao Village Committee has put out about 300,000 yuan and rented 55 guest rooms.
丰台区兆丰馨园小区居民黄先生称，1月28日小区物业对所有住户发放了门禁卡，这两天开始出入小区需要门禁卡，无卡者就说明1月28日不在小区，会被委婉劝离小区，先自行隔离。
Mr. Huang, a resident of Fengtai District's Zhaofengxinyuan District, said that on January 28, residential properties issued all residents of the residential areas, access to these two days needed to stop the entry and exit card, no card means January 28 not in the small area, will be gently advised to leave the community, isolation.
其他城市也有采取封闭措施的社区。
Other cities also have closed communities.
截至1月31日，在全国第二大疫区浙江，已有537人确诊，面对即将到来的返程高峰，也有小区发出通告要求房东和租客自查，元宵节之后才能回家。
As of January 31, 537 people had been diagnosed in Zhejiang, the country's second-most-affected area, and in the face of an impending return rush, there were notices from residential areas asking landlords and tenants to check for themselves before returning home after the Lantern Festival.
在阿里巴巴总部旁边的余杭区五常街道文一社区，居委会1月29日发出紧急通知，称外来返杭人员一律在正月十六（2月9日）24时以后才能进入小区；湖北籍人员返杭的具体时间等上级部门通知，方可租住西溪北苑和周家斗农居点。
People returning from outside Hangzhou can only enter the community after 2400 hours on Feb. 16, according to an emergency notice issued by the neighborhood committee on January 29. The residents of Hubei province can only rent the Xixi Beiyuan and Zhoujiadou farmhouses until after 2400 hours on February 9, 2008.
如果不按此要求执行而产生的一切管控和隔离所产生的费用将由出租户（房东）自行承担。
The costs of all controls and segregation resulting from failure to comply with this requirement will be borne by the tenant (landlord).
租住在杭州萧山区湖头陈花苑的陈小姐，在杭州一家电商公司上班，2月初就要复工，但她现在仍在宁波家中无法启程。
Ms Chen, who rents Chen Hua Yuan in Xiaoshan District, Hangzhou, works for an electrical company in Hangzhou and will resume work in early February, but she is still unable to leave her home in Ningbo.
小区物业通知她，接到社区通知，租客正月十七（2月10日）以后才能进门。
Community property informed her, received community notification, tenant January 17 (February 10) before entering the house.
“社区防控最根本的目的是保障人民健康安全”北七家镇等地的“封村”做法在网上引起了争议。
"The ultimate goal of community prevention and control is to ensure people's health and safety." The practice of "village sealing" in seven northern towns and other places has caused controversy online.
很多网友认为这种措施过于严厉，还有很多人认为其有违法嫌疑。
Many netizens thought the measure was too harsh, and many others thought it was illegal.
依据规定，北京是2月3日复工，因此马上将会迎来返程高峰，有业内人士担心，如果延续这种一刀切的办法，相关的问题会越来越严重。
With Beijing due to resume work on February 3, there are concerns within the industry that the problems will get worse if the one-size-fits-all approach continues.
朝阳区垈头翠城馨园一名业主表示，她觉得严格禁止外来务工者回到北京居所的行为，是一种比较极端的方式，她和自己所在的社区居委会沟通过，目前自己的小区还没有限制返京人员，正常登记、做好自我隔离或防护即可。
An owner of the Chaoyang Zhangtou Tsui Garden said she felt the strict ban on migrant workers returning to their homes in Beijing was a more extreme way.
一位居住在北京常营像素北区的租户老家在吉林，因为工作原因过年期间并没有离开北京，和他同租一套房子的另有两位租户，分别来自浙江和江西，截至1月30日24时，浙江有确诊病例537例，江西240例。
As of 2400 hours January 30, 537 cases of confirmed cases and 240 cases of Jiangxi had been reported in Zhejiang Province. As of 2400 hours on January 30, 537 cases had been confirmed in Zhejiang Province and 240 in Jiangxi Province.
他表示，两位邻居过年都回了老家，此时还未返京。
He said the two neighbors had returned home after the Lunar New Year and had not returned to Beijing.
他说自己心里会默默祈祷，希望邻居可以等疫情缓和一些再回来，但也觉得没有理由拒绝他们返京。
He said he prayed silently that his neighbors would wait for the outbreak to subside before returning, but felt there was no reason to deny them permission to return.
对于管控措施是否涉嫌违法的问题，北七家镇西湖新村小区工作人员并没正面回复。
As to whether the control measures are suspected of violating the law, the staff of Xishuxin Village, seven towns in the north, did not respond positively.
“居委会一直在进行劝阻，为了小区的安全大家配合一下，附近小区已经出现外来返乡人员出现状况被隔离了，我们没说不让你回。
"The neighborhood committee has been trying to dissuade you, for the sake of the security of the neighborhood to cooperate with you, there has been a situation of returning people in the vicinity of the situation has been isolated, we did not say not to let you back.
必须回、有必要回的情况下，让单位安排食宿。
If necessary, let the flat arrange accommodation.
”于洋和很多返京的业主都在找居委会协调物业，“女儿和老公过几天就返京了，也担心他们不能进小区。
Yu Yang and many homeowners returning to Beijing are looking for a neighborhood committee to coordinate their properties. "My daughter and husband will be back in Beijing in a few days and are worried that they won't be able to enter the area.
”针对有小区禁止返京租户回家的情况，北京市中闻律师事务所合伙人赵虎律师对《财经》记者表示，相关小区物业的做法并没有法律依据。
Zhao Hu, a partner at Beijing Zhongxin Law Office, told Caijing that there was no legal basis for the practice.
依照我国传染病防治法第42条，禁止居民回到家中等行为，需要县级以上人民政府的同意和批示。
According to article 42 of the Law on the Prevention and Treatment of Infectious Diseases, the consent and instruction of the people's government at or above the county level is required to prohibit residents from returning to their homes.
居委会和街道办同样没有这个权力。
Neighbourhood committees and street offices also do not have this power.
另据传染病防治法的规定，即使有特殊情况，需对某个地域进行隔离，在隔离期间，也不能区分对象是业主还是租户。
It is also stipulated in the Communicable Diseases Act that, even in exceptional circumstances, a geographical area must be isolated and that no distinction can be made between owners and tenants during the period of isolation.
如果该地区不能居住，不能单独对租户做出隔离要求，这属于侵犯租户的权利。
If the area is uninhabitable and the tenant cannot be isolated, this is a violation of the tenant's rights.
赵虎认为，小区禁止租户回家，涉及的是行政单位是否有权力提出这样要求的问题，如果没有，小区行为属于违法。
Zhao Hu believes that the community to prohibit tenants from returning home, involving whether the administrative unit has the power to make such a request, and if not, small acts are illegal.
他建议，如果返京租户遇到类似情况，可以向有关单位，比如居委会、街道办甚至更上一级反应问题并要求解决。
He suggested that in the event of a similar situation in Beijing, the tenants concerned, such as neighbourhood committees, street offices and even higher-level offices, could be contacted and asked to solve the problem.
租户有权利要求执行单位拿出相关文件和通知。
Tenants have the right to request relevant documents and notifications from the implementing unit.
如果有证据证明谁做出这个决定，租户可以保存证据，提起诉讼。
If there is evidence as to who made the decision, the tenant can preserve the evidence and institute proceedings.
北京市一法律师事务所律师周兆成也对《财经》记者表示，物业基于业主授权和《物业服务合同》对小区进行管理；而一些城市的居民委员会、村民委员会则基于有关法律以及社会公共利益对所在区域进行管理。
Zhou Zhaocheng, a lawyer at a law firm in Beijing, also told Caijing that the property was managed on the basis of the owner's authorization and the Property Services Contract, while residents' and villagers' committees in some cities managed their areas based on relevant laws and public interests.
但是，任何管理都不能够采取地域歧视的方式。
However, no regulation can be applied in a geographically discriminatory manner.
因为这既不尊重人权，也涉嫌违法，与我国《宪法》规定的平等权相背离。
This is contrary to the right to equality enshrined in our Constitution, as it neither respects human rights nor is it in conformity with the law.
“小区物业或者居委会、村委会对于在本小区合法居住的住户，不考虑是否是从疫区回来的，也不提前通知，测量体温，直接一刀切的不让回家。
"Residential properties or neighborhood committees and village committees shall not consider whether the residents who live legally in their localities have returned from epidemic areas or taken temperature measurements without prior notice.
我认为涉嫌侵权、歧视、违法，应该立即叫停。
I think the alleged infringement, discrimination, illegal, should immediately stop.
”周兆成说。
'he said.
周兆成表示，对于物业不让进入小区的情况，合法租户可以依法与所在小区物业进行沟通、交涉。
Zhou Zhaocheng said that the property does not allow into the community, legitimate tenants can be legally and the property in the community to communicate, negotiate.
而对于承租人如果合法租住该小区，也可以向出租人寻求帮助。
And for the lessee if the legal rental community, can also seek help from the lessor.
出租人基于租赁合同也有义务要保证租户入住，如不能则有义务为承租人提供临时住处。
The lessor is also obliged to guarantee the tenant's occupancy on the basis of the lease contract and, if unable to do so, to provide the lessee with temporary accommodation.
实际上，自如等长租公寓机构已经在采取行动维护租户的权益。
In practice, tenancy agencies are already taking action to defend the rights of tenants.
自如相关负责人回复《财经》称，租户无法回家的情况目前为个例，自如正在努力跟进，有的已解决，如图景嘉园已解禁，今日租客已陆续回到租住房屋。
Tenants who are unable to return home are now a case in point. Some have been resolved, such as the release of King Caiyuan, and tenants are returning to their rental properties today, Caijing said.
据《财经》了解，自如目前全国在住的租客有100多万，北京约占一半。
According to Caijing, there are more than one million renters in China, about half of them in Beijing.
出现这种情况，对租客，和长租公寓运营商都是损失。
This happens to tenants, and to long-term rental apartment operators are losses.
目前北京市个人房东在租赁市场中占比为70-80%，相对于长租公寓的租客来说，个人租户的维权难度恐怕会更大。
At present, private landlords in Beijing account for 70-80% of the rental market, and it is feared that it will be more difficult for individual tenants to defend their rights than tenants of long-rented apartments.
除了法律问题之外，一刀切的“封村”、“封小区”做法是否能对疫情防控起到积极作用也存在疑问。
In addition to legal issues, one-size-fits-all "village closure," "small-area" practices can have a positive impact on disease prevention and control is also questionable.
无论是封闭还是隔离，各种防控措施的目的都是减少人群的接触和聚集，从而阻断病毒传播的渠道。
Whether closed or isolated, various control measures are aimed at reducing the contact and concentration of the population, thereby blocking the transmission of the virus.
但是，如果居民不能进小区，有家不能回，就只能在外面游荡。
However, if residents can not enter the community, a home can not go back, can only roam outside.
对于他们自己和其他人来说，这种情况都只能使疫情传播的风险增大，而不是减小。
For themselves and others, this only increases, not diminishes, the risk of the epidemic spreading.
防控疫情需要的是全国一盘棋，而不是“各扫门前雪”。
Prevention and control of the epidemic requires a whole nation, not a "snow sweep."
1月31日，北京市宣布，除必需行业外，各企业上班时间延迟至2月10日。
On January 31, Beijing announced it would postpone work until Feb. 10 for all but essential industries.
北京市民政局副局长赵济贵在谈到各个社区采取的防控措施时指出，“有一些社区在执行过程中太严格了，对于这种现象我们会及时劝阻，让其改正。
Zhao Ji-gui, deputy director of the Beijing Civil Affairs Bureau, referring to the prevention and control measures taken by various communities, said: "Some communities are too strict in their implementation.
不能造成恐慌，或者带来无形的压力。
Do not cause panic or invisible pressure.
”他还表示，社区防控最根本的目的是保障人民健康安全，大家的相互支持是打赢这场防疫战的群众基础。
He also said that the primary purpose of community prevention and control is to ensure people's health and safety, and that mutual support is the basis for winning the battle against epidemic diseases.
“我们要防控病毒，不是要防控来自各地的同胞。
"We have to prevent and control the virus, not people from all over the country.
小区物业这种以返城人员为敌的做法，早已涉嫌违法，也绝不是管控和切断传染所必须的手段。
Residential property, which is hostile to returning residents, has long been suspected of breaking the law, and is by no means necessary to control and sever infection.
”周兆成律师说。
'said Mr. Zhou.
新型冠状病毒疫情系列报道▷ 点击图片查看责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
A new coronavirus series of reports Please click on picture to see Invest & # 44; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
小区封门堵截返城者，这样的防疫措施真的好吗。
The area closes the door to block the return of the city, such vaccination measures really good.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "小区封门堵截返城者，这样的防疫措施真的好吗";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "在法律界人士看来，各地自行采取的“封村”、“封小区”等极端做法事实上涉嫌违法。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 160;
防控疫情需要全国一盘棋，而不是“各扫门前雪”";。
Prevention and control of the epidemic required a whole nation, not just "sweeping snow."
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
