小微企业的救命时刻。
Life-saving moments for micro and small businesses.
张晓云。
Zhang Xiaoyun.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
“有人说时代的一粒沙落在个体头上是一座山。
"" It has been said that a grain of sand fell upon an individual head is a mountain.
那疫情这座山砸到我们企业头上这一个月来，我感觉是扛了座珠穆朗玛。
For a month after the epidemic hit our company, I felt like I was carrying an Everest.
”这位业余爱好写作的霸蛮米粉创始人回顾企业刚刚度过的生死时刻如此感慨。
The writer's founder recalls the moments of life and death that businesses have just experienced.
2014年大学毕业后，头顶“90后北大硕士”光环的张天一创立了霸蛮米粉这个餐饮品牌，主营线下。
After graduating from university in 2014, Zhang Tianyi, who had a halo of "Master's degree from Peking University 90," founded the restaurant brand of Rex Rice Flour.
一晃5年过去了， 霸蛮米粉在全国有了60家线下直营门店，其中北京就有40家，基本涵盖了北京各个主要购物中心。
Time flies 5 years, bully rice noodle in the country has 60 direct on-line shops, of which Beijing has 40, basically cover all the main shopping centers in Beijing.
霸蛮米粉信心满满的张天一在2019年末按下发展快进键，做出突击开十几家新店的决策。
Decepticon rice powder full of confidence Zhang Tianyi in late 2019 press the development of fast key, make a dozen new shop decision-making.
他在朋友圈写道：“今天起、一天一家新店，开到年30前。
He wrote in his circle of friends: "Today, one day a new store, open 30 years ago.
”张天一朋友圈孰料，一场突如其来的疫情“黑天鹅”，霸蛮米粉瞬间进入寒冷的冬季，线下60家门店收入基本为0，可以说是颗粒无收，一个月却要支出近2000万的成本费用。
To what extent do you agree or disagree? "Zhang Tianyi friend circle, a sudden outbreak of" black swans, "bully rice flour into the cold winter, 60 shop income is basically zero, can be said to be no harvest, a month to spend nearly 20 million costs.
现金流是小微企业的生命线，以当时现金流情况计算，霸蛮米粉撑不到两个月。
Cash flow is the lifeline of micro and small enterprises, to the cash flow situation at the time, the bullion rice powder will last less than two months.
但转机很快出现，张天一意外发现，此前没有重视的天猫品牌店渠道后台数据显示，半成品米粉销量增长显著。
But the turning point appeared quickly, Zhang Tianyi surprised to find that previously did not attach importance to the Tiancat shop channel background data showed that semi-finished rice flour sales increased significantly.
东边不亮西边亮，他果断集中人力发力线上。
East is not bright west bright, he resolutely concentrated on the strength line.
2月11日至2月28日，霸蛮米粉在天猫一共发出约8万个包裹，直接卖到断货。
From Feb. 11 to Feb. 28, Tyrannosaurus rex sent out about 80,000 parcels in the cats and sold them directly to the market.
货是发出去了，但按照阿里电商平台的规则，需要消费者在收到货后点击“确认收货”，卖家才能拿到销售回款，时间差依然很长，现金流如同达摩克利斯之剑依然悬挂在霸蛮米粉的头上。
The goods were shipped, but under the Ariel platform's rules, consumers were required to click "acknowledge receipt" before the seller could get the money back. The time lag was still long, and the cash flow was like the sword of Damocles hanging over the top of the bulletproof rice flour.
张天一本人生死存亡间，张天一时刻密切关注各个平台的商家扶助措施。
Zhang Tianyi's life and death, Zhang Tianyi always pay close attention to the business support measures of various platforms.
2月10日，阿里联合蚂蚁金服发布了《阿里巴巴告商家书》，旨在扶持商家，与中小企业一起“抗疫”，推出的六大政策，包括：减免平台商家经营费用；提供资金支持，为商家提供低息免息贷款；补贴快递员，让物流转得更快；提供灵活就业岗位，让员工有活干、有收入；为企业开放更多数字化服务能力；帮助企业远程办公和管理。
On February 10, Ali Unite Gold Ants issued Alibaba v. Businessmen's Letter, aimed at supporting businesses and small and medium-sized enterprises to fight the epidemic, with six major policies, including: reducing and waiving platform business expenses; subsidizing express delivery workers to make logistics work faster; providing flexible jobs for workers to work and earn; opening up more digital services to businesses; and helping businesses telecommute and manage.
2月19日，阿里根据扶持商家的六大政策，出台了一共20多条的帮扶细则。
On February 19, Ali issued more than 20 help rules under six policies to support businesses.
其中，淘宝为商家提供免费的“提前收款”服务，商家只要发货后可以申请由网商银行垫付货款，做到“0帐期”。
Among them, Taobao provides free "advance collection" service for merchants, as long as the merchant can apply for payment by the bank, "0 account period."
这解了霸蛮米粉的燃眉之急。
This solves the problem of bully rice noodle.
通过天猫的0账期回款举措，霸蛮米粉累计提取660万元现金，成功度过鬼门关。
Through the cat's 0 account collection initiative, the total amount of Rex rice flour to withdraw 6.6 million dollars in cash, successfully through the gate.
“我也比较过其他银行的贷款产品，但是由于授信周期长，再加上我们餐饮企业没有太多抵押物，授信额度也不大。
"I have compared the loan products of other banks as well, but because of the long credit cycle and the fact that we don't have much collateral in the restaurant business, we don't have very large credit lines.
”张天一向界面新闻记者表示，“感谢天猫的0账期回款，实实在在支持到了我们创业商家，是我们在疫情最困难的时期享受到的最有力度、及时性最好的一项金融支持政策。
"Thanks to our business start-ups, we have one of the strongest and most timely financial support policies we have had in the most difficult period of the epidemic," Zhang told reporters at the interface.
”作为开放电商平台，阿里扶助商家的政策除了缓解现金流压力的雪中送炭外，还有授人以渔。
As an open electricity business platform, Mr Ali's pro-business policies offer lessons as well as easing cash flow pressures.
张天一介绍称，天猫关注到我们这样餐饮企业的困难，主动和我们联系，探讨能否利用天猫和我们的门店完成更多电商化转型的动作。
Zhang Tianyi said that the cat concerned about the difficulties of catering enterprises like us, and reached out to us to explore the possibility of using the Tiantas and our stores to complete more of the transformation.
“在发现电商的需求后，霸蛮米线接着又用最快的速度去完成盒马这类商超渠道的补货。
"After discovering the demand of the electric merchant, the bully rice line then uses the fastest speed to complete the box horse such as the super-channel replenishment.
让我们的半成品速食米粉也能出现在货架上，居然也销售一空。
Let our semi-finished instant rice noodle appear on the shelves and are sold out.
”思路打开后，张天一称将利用霸蛮米粉的线上运营能力帮到更多餐饮企业。
"After the idea opened, Zhang Tianyi said he would use the online operation capacity of bullion rice flour to help more catering enterprises.
据了解，霸蛮米线启动帮助餐饮企业代运营电商的业务，目前已有餐饮客户伙伴与其进入签约流程。
It is understood that the line began to help catering enterprises to operate the electric business on behalf of the current catering partners with the signing process.
事实上，疫情期间，“0账期”拯救的不只霸蛮米粉一家小微企业，专注精油美妆的阿芙精油也是“0账期”的受益者。
In fact, during the outbreak, No Account Period saved not only a small business like Rex Rice Powder, but also Af Oil, which focuses on essential oils and makeup.
据了解，春节后，阿芙精油在房租、员工工资、宣传推广上累计支出了2000多万元，但销售的自然回款很慢，一直属于净透支的状态。
It is understood that after the Spring Festival, Af essential oil in rent, wages, publicity and promotion of the cumulative expenditure of more than 20 million, but sales of natural cash is slow, has been a net overdraft.
“受快递停运和物流园区不能复工的影响，我们每天收到的回款仅仅不足销售的十分之一，企业现金流压力很大。
"We receive less than a tenth of sales per day due to express stoppage and the inability of the logistics park to resume work, and corporate cash flow is under pressure.
”阿芙精油电商负责人杨寅向记者表示，公司使用了天猫的0账期扶持政策，获得500万的极速回款额度，这笔500万的急速回款给处于净透支的阿芙精油争取到1周左右的缓和时间，显著缓和了公司的现金压力。
Yin Yang, head of Aphi's essential oil business, told reporters that the company used Tiantas zero account policy to get a quick cash withdrawal of $5m to buy around a week's relief for Aff's oil, which was in a net overdraft, significantly easing cash pressure on the company.
同样面对资金压力的还有古琴匠人——王宁。
Also facing the pressure of money, Guqin craftsman - Wang Ning.
为了推广古琴技艺，4年前的他毅然放弃华为基层干部身份和80万年薪，摇身一变成了斫琴师傅，在北京经营一家名为“律和琴社”的古琴社，目前在北京本地琴圈里有一定影响力。
Four years ago, he became a master master and managed a Guqin club called "The Law and Qin Society" in Beijing, where he now holds an important position in the local organ industry.
由于古琴对时间和手工要求比较高，加上面对稀有的原料，以及工坊多次搬迁（因棚户区改造等政策原因）造成的资金损失，还在创业和不断投入期的王宁只有利用网商贷做一些资金周转。
Due to the high time and manual requirements of Guqin, rare raw materials, and the financial losses caused by the multiple relocation of the workshop (due to policy reasons such as slum upgrading), Wang Ning, who is still in the start-up and investment period, has had to use Internet loans to make some cash flow.
琴社疫情来临后，带有半公益性质的琴社线下收入来源断绝，线上业务量上升，但线上销售以不赚钱甚至赔钱的散弦居多。
After the advent of the Qin community epidemic, with the semi-public benefit of the below-line income sources cut off, online business volume rose, but online sales do not make money or even lose more than the scattered string.
很多琴友在疫情期间有充足的时间在家中弹琴，而琴弦属于易耗品，因此单根弦的订单比平日大概上扬了两至三倍。
Many lute players have plenty of time to play at home during the epidemic, and the strings are perishable, so orders for a single string are about two to three times higher than usual.
加上有一个仓库地点在村里，因而疫情无法使用，需要王宁额外重新备货。
With one warehouse site in the village, the outbreak could not be used and Wang Ning needed additional restocking.
一时间，王宁资金压力陡增，纯靠自己的资金难免捉襟见肘。
For a while, Wang Ning capital pressure increased steeply, relying solely on their own funds inevitably stretched.
“淘宝网提供的0账期，能够快速的回收部分已发货货款，确实能解燃眉之急，更快更多的备货来提高服务能力。
"Taobao provides 0 account period, the ability to quickly recover some of the shipped goods, can indeed meet the immediate needs, faster and more stock to improve the service capacity.
”通信工程师出身的王宁表示，淘宝网商银行的操作非常简单，点几下手机几秒钟到账，他很清楚这离不开阿里人的艰辛努力和强大科技的支撑，并为阿里人“情怀温暖店主、科技服务小微”的精神点赞。
Wang Ning, a communications engineer, said the Taobao merchant bank's operations were simple, with just a few seconds' mobile phone calls to his account, which he knew could not be separated from Ali's hard work and powerful technology, and praised the spirit of Ali's "warm-hearted shopkeeper and small tech services."
眼下，这场突如起来的新冠肺炎疫情仍在继续，复工延迟、营业受阻，中小微企业备受冲击。
The sudden outbreak of new crown pneumonia is continuing, with delays and disruptions affecting MSMEs.
资金就是战斗的粮草。
Money is the food of battle.
此前，一份由清华、北大联合995家中小企业进行的调研问卷调查显示：如果疫情持续，85%的企业现金流最多维持3个月，如何保障现金流，成为企业生存的关键。
A survey of 995 small and medium-sized enterprises conducted by Tsinghua University and Peking University showed that if the epidemic continues, 85 percent of the company's cash flow will last up to three months.
70%的商家表示同时表示，只要资金链不断，就对生意回暖有信心。
Seventy percent of businesses also said they were confident the business would recover as long as the chain continued.
3月2日，网商银行和淘宝联合发起倡议，呼吁全社会缩短中小企业账期，不截流不拖欠，保护他们的资金链；网商银行将垫资500-1000亿元，和淘宝一起，首先践行“0账期”。
On March 2, Netmerchant Bank and Taobao jointly launched an initiative calling on the whole society to shorten the accounting period for small and medium-sized enterprises, do not intercept arrears and protect their financial chain.
阿里巴巴倡议商家发货后可申请由网商银行垫资货款，方便扩大再生产，资金成本和风险由淘宝平台和网商银行承担。
Alibaba advocates the merchant can apply for by the net merchant bank advance money, convenient to expand reproduction, capital cost and risk by Taobao platform and net merchant bank bear.
淘宝推出国内电商平台第一个免费“0账期”服务——发货就能秒收款，就为缓解中小企业的现金流压力提供了极大的支持。
Taobao launched the first free domestic electric business platform "0 account period" service - shipping can be collected for a second, to ease the cash flow pressure of small and medium-sized enterprises provided great support.
这是目前缓解现金流压力门槛最低的举措。
This is currently the lowest threshold to ease cash flow pressures.
同时，支付宝也号召大家收货满意之后，第一时间主动确认收货，商家早一分钟收到钱。
At the same time, pay treasure also call upon you to receive satisfactory, the first time to confirm the receipt of goods, the merchant received money one minute early.
近期，淘宝上就新增了700万消费者确认收货，帮助商家提前回拢资金。
Recently, Taobao on the new 7 million consumers confirmed the receipt of goods to help businesses get the money back in advance.
倡议称，符合条件的650万淘宝商家都可以在发货后，申请提前收款，消费者确认收货前，网商银行会替消费者垫付货款；消费者可以继续享受支付宝担保交易的安全体验，权益保障不受影响。
The group said that 6.5 million eligible Taobao merchants could apply for advance payment after delivery, consumers would confirm receipt of goods, Netease banks would advance payments on behalf of consumers, and consumers would continue to enjoy the security experience of paid-treasure secured transactions without compromising their rights and interests.
在3月31日之前，这项服务都将免费提供。
This service will be provided free of charge until 31 March.
值得一提的是，消费者们也在默默助力商家缩短回款时间。
It is worth mentioning that consumers are also quietly helping businesses shorten the time to pay back money.
“我马上点收货”“坚持下去呀”成了消费者和商家之前最频繁的对话。
"I'll order the goods right away" "Hang in there" has become the most frequent conversation between consumers and businesses.
长江商学院副院长、金融学教授李海涛表示，中小微企业承担了中国大量的就业，疫情之后，流动性和现金流关系到他们的生存。
'MSMEs are taking on a lot of jobs in China, 'says Li Haitao, vice dean and finance professor at Changjiang Business School.
账期缩短一天，回暖就更快一步。
A day's reduction in the account period makes a recovery faster.
网商银行和淘宝的这个呼吁是非常有必要的，平台牺牲自己的短期利益，进行精准滴灌，带来的是千千万万中小微企业的稳定与发展。
This appeal of net merchant bank and Taobao is very necessary, platform sacrifices oneself short-term benefit, carry on precise drip irrigation, bring the stability and development of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
小微企业的救命时刻。
Life-saving moments for micro and small businesses.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "小微企业的救命时刻";。
var msg _ title = & quot; MSMEs' life-saving moment;;
var msg_desc = "660万现金的“及时雨”到账后，张天一长长地舒了一口气。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
