新冠病毒正式名字到底该叫什么，再起争议。
What the official name of the new crown virus should be called is controversial again.
金淼。
Miao Jin.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
记者：金淼“ 此前石正丽等人发表文章认为，SARS-CoV-2这一命名可能会对社会、经济造成不利影响。
Interviewer: "Shi Zhengli and others have previously published articles suggesting that the name SARS-CoV-2 could have adverse social and economic effects.
”“新冠病毒”只是一个通俗的叫法，早在2月上旬，国际病毒分类委员会冠状病毒研究小组将其正式命名为“SARS-CoV-2”。
"The new crown virus" is a colloquial term given to it by the International Commission on Classification of Viruses-Coronavirus Study Group early in February.
但这个正式的名字是否合适，学界仍然在争议中。
But the appropriateness of the formal name is still a matter of debate in academia.
3月5日，医学期刊《柳叶刀》发表题为《SARS-CoV-2 是新冠病毒合适的名字》（SARS-CoV-2 is an appropriate name for the new coronavirus）的文章。
On 5 March, the medical journal Lancet published an article entitled "SARS-CoV-2 is the appropriate name for the new crown virus" (SARS-CoV-2 is an appropriate name for the new coronavirus).
文章作者为吴云涛、霍文哲、黄耀伟、金冬雁等十二位在内的国内外学者。
The authors include twelve scholars from home and abroad, including Wu Yuntao, Huo Wenzhe, Huang Yawei and Golden Geese.
该文章中是对此前中科院武汉病毒所研究员石正丽、中国疾病预防控制中心主任高福、复旦大学教授姜世勃等人发表的文章《新冠病毒需要一个不同的命名》（A distinct name is needed for the new coronavirus）的驳斥。
This article is a refutation of the earlier article "A distinction name is needed for the new coronavir," published by Shi Zhengli, a researcher at Wuhan Institute of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Gao Fu, director of the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, and Jiang Shibo, professor at Fudan University.
新文章认为，使用SARS-CoV-2命名并不会造成对社会、经济的不利影响。
The new article argues that the use of SARS-CoV-2 nomenclature does not cause adverse socio-economic effects.
2月11日，国际病毒分类委员会将命名为SARS-CoV-2，该委员会在bioRxiv预印本上发表的文章中表示，该命名强调了新病毒与2003年发现的SARS病毒的相似性。
On 11 February, the International Commission on the Classification of Viruses, to be named SARS-CoV-2, stated in an article published in advance of bioRxiv that the nomenclature highlighted the similarities between the new virus and the SARS virus discovered in 2003.
但是石正丽等学者于2月18日在《柳叶刀》发表的文章认为，新冠病毒可能会演变成一种低致病性但高传染性的冠状病毒，可能每年冬天都会复发，像季节性流感病毒一样，因此建议将新冠病毒命名为人类冠状病毒2019（HCoV-19），与SARS-CoV进行区别。
But an article published in The Lancet on Feb. 18 by academics such as Shi Zhengli suggested that the new cap virus could evolve into a low-pathogenic but highly infectious coronavirus that could recur each winter, much like seasonal influenza viruses. It is therefore recommended that the new crown virus be named Human Coronavirus 2019 (HCoV-19), as distinct from SARS-CoV.
如果命名为SARS-CoV-2，则可能引发误解，使民众觉得当前爆发结束后，病毒再不会重新出现，因而失去警觉。
Named SARS-CoV-2, it could lead to a misunderstanding that the virus will not reappear once the current outbreak is over and thus lose alert.
石正丽等人的文章中认为，如果将新冠病毒命名为SARS-CoV-2，则存在暗示其会导致SARS或相似疾病，对于普通公民及病毒知识不够的科学家而言，无法区分。
According to Shi Zhengli et al., if the new crown virus is named SARS-CoV-2, there is no way to distinguish between scientists who imply that it causes SARS or similar diseases, and those who do not have enough knowledge of the virus.
而新冠病毒在生物学、流行病学和临床特征方面与SARS-CoV截然不同，因此认为该命名具有误导性，并且该命名可能会给经济、社会方面带来负面影响。
The new crown virus is very different from SARS-CoV in terms of its biological, epidemiological and clinical characteristics, so the name is considered misleading and may have negative economic and social consequences.
但是在吴云涛等学者最新发表的文章中指出，鉴于目前SARS-CoV-2跨物种传播机制仍然不明确，而且没有有效的切断人畜传染的手段。
But according to a recent article by Wu Yuntao and others, the current mechanism of cross-species transmission of SARS-CoV-2 remains unclear and there is no effective means of cutting off human-animal transmission.
如此前MERS病毒在就多次从骆驼传染给人类，导致人类感染。
This preMERS virus has been repeatedly transmitted from camels to humans, causing infection in humans.
“因此在命名中保留SARS，将有助于保持公众的警惕并及时反应。
"Keeping SARS in the nomenclature will therefore help keep the public alert and responsive.
”吴云涛等人在文章中表示，随着疫情进展，不排除其能演化为一种低致病性病毒，而新分离的病毒株可以被命名为低致病性人冠状病毒（LPH-CoV）。
Wu and others said in the article that as the outbreak progresses, it cannot be ruled out that it will evolve into a low-pathogenic virus, and that the newly isolated strain could be called a low-pathogenic human coronavirus (LPH-CoV).
“鉴于SARS-CoV-2已经在科学文章中使用，现阶段更名将在业界引起混乱，并且对于这种新出现病毒的种种不确定性，我们建议保留SARS-CoV-2这一命名。
"In view of the fact that SARS-CoV-2 is already used in scientific articles, the change of name at this stage would cause confusion in the industry and we recommend retaining the name SARS-CoV-2 for the uncertainties of this emerging virus.
”文章作者在最后指出。
The author concludes by pointing out.
3月2日，国际病毒分类委员会冠状病毒研究小组在医学期刊《自然-微生物学》上也发表声明，介绍新冠病毒的命名方法和过程，作者强调，SARS-CoV-2中的SARS是为了突然其与原始病毒在演化上的关系，而不是临床层面的关系。
In a statement published in the medical journal Nature-Microbiology on March 2, the coronavirus research team of the International Commission on Classification of Viruses also published a statement describing the naming methods and processes of the new crown virus.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
新冠病毒正式名字到底该叫什么，再起争议。
What the official name of the new crown virus should be called is controversial again.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "新冠病毒正式名字到底该叫什么，再起争议";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "此前石正丽等人发表文章认为，SARS-CoV-2这一命名可能会对社会、经济造成不利影响。
var msg _ desc = & quot; earlier articles by Shi Zhengli et al. found that the name SARS-CoV-2 may have had a negative social and economic impact.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
