一线护士长口述：核酸检测采样工作中不为人知的细节。
First-line head nurse oral: Nucleic acid detection sampling in unknown details.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻记者 邓雅菲 实习生 陈紫嘉1月21日上午，武汉市第一医院呼吸与危重症医学科二病区的护士长芦丹接到医院通知，紧急成立该院收治新冠肺炎患者的呼吸与危重症五病区、六病区，担任护士长。
Peng Pai reporter Deng Yafei intern Chen Zijia January 21 morning, Wuhan City Hospital No. 1 Respiratory and Critical Medicine Division II District Nurse Ludan received a notification from the hospital that the hospital urgently set up the hospital to treat patients with pneumonia respiratory and critical five, six as head nurse.
芦丹在一线要完成护理危重症病人、核酸检测采样、防护物资对接、患者和医护人员的饮食安排、新冠肺炎患者的遗体护理等工作。
In the first line of care for critically ill patients, nucleic acid testing sampling, docking of protective materials, patient and health care dietary arrangements, care of the remains of patients with Newcastle pneumonia.
芦丹告诉澎湃新闻，护理危重症患者的难度和压力都很大。
Lu Dan told the roar news that caring for critically ill patients is very difficult and stressful.
“一位危重症病人的血氧饱和度只有70多而且不能进食”，芦丹冒着极大感染风险为该患者上胃管、尿管，由于持续高强度工作，她头晕目眩、胸闷气短，衣裤全部湿透。
"A critically ill patient with a blood oxygen saturation of just over 70 and unable to eat," Rutin, who risks contracting the disease's stomach and urine, is dizzy, her chest is short and her clothes are soaking wet as a result of a sustained high intensity of work.
此外，芦丹还需要特别关注危重症患者的心理状况，对于一位可能有轻生念头的患者，她协助患者与家人保持联系，建立患者战胜病魔的信心，令其重燃对生活的希望。
She also needs to pay special attention to the psychological well-being of critically ill patients. In the case of a patient who may have a mild mind, she helps the patient stay in touch with her family, builds confidence that the patient will overcome the illness and renews hope for life.
武汉市第一医院呼吸与危重症医学科二病区的护士长芦丹。
Luidan, head nurse in Wuhan No.1 Hospital for Respiratory and Critical Medicine.
本文图片均由受访者提供芦丹的口述24小时待命，护理危重症病人压力大我作为护士长，在1月21日以后就一直在隔离病区里工作，24小时随时待命。
In this article, the interviewee provides an oral 24-hour call to take care of critically ill patients. As head nurse, I have been working in a quarantined area for 24 hours since January 21.
我每天早上都要进病房进行核酸检测的采样工作，然后看望所有的病人，给病人一些指导，保证治疗和护理效果，接着还要发放病人的一日三餐。
Every morning I go into the ward to take samples for nucleic acid tests, then visit all the patients, give them some guidance, guarantee treatment and nursing effects, and then give them three meals a day.
我还要做好后勤工作，下午我经常和同事们一起，把防护物资一箱箱往科室里面搬。
I also have to do the logistics, in the afternoon I often work with colleagues, protective equipment boxes to move inside the department.
为了保障医护人员的衣食住行，也需要对接好大家的饮食和生活物资。
In order to ensure the food, clothing and travel of medical personnel, we also need to dock the food and living materials.
到了晚上，我要依据病人和护士们的情况调整排班。
At night, I adjust my shift to suit the needs of the patients and nurses.
我们两个病区每天有近70名医护人员进出，为做好防护消毒隔离工作，我每天督促大家强化防护意识，规范穿脱防护服的流程，不规范的地方会一遍一遍指导。
We have nearly 70 health care workers in both areas every day, to do a good job of sterilization isolation, I urge you to strengthen the awareness of protection, standardize the process of wearing protective clothing, non-standard places will be over and over again guidance.
防护物资的管理也是重中之重，区域标识、人员进出、定时消杀、防护更新的工作我也要去完成。
The management of protective materials is also a top priority, the area marking, personnel entry and exit, regular elimination, protection update work I have to complete.
庆幸的是，至今我们两个病区没有一个医护人员感染。
Fortunately, none of our staff has been infected so far in either of our affected areas.
由于新冠肺炎患者的病房是无陪护病房，护理工作量比以前更大。
As the wards of patients with Newcomial Pneumonia are unaccompanied wards, the nursing workload is greater than before.
我们不仅要像平常一样从事一些治疗，还要照顾病人的生活起居，而危重症患者的护理工作带来的压力就更大。
Not only do we have to do some treatment as usual, but we have to take care of the lives of patients, and the care of critically ill patients is even more stressful.
有一次，护理一位危重症病人，他当时因为血氧饱和度只有70多而且不能进食，如果再不上尿管和胃管可能就会有生命危险。
In one case, a critically ill patient was being cared for because his blood oxygen saturation was only over 70 and he could not eat.
但插管工作感染风险非常大，我们当时不仅穿了防护服，还加了一层隔离衣，戴了防护屏，整个上管的工作持续了30多分钟。
But the risk of infection through intubation was very high. We were wearing not only protective clothing, but also a layer of protective clothing and screen, and the whole operation of the tube lasted more than 30 minutes.
完成之后我觉得极度胸闷喘不过气来，头晕目眩，心率高达130次/分，衣裤全部湿透。
When I was done, I felt extremely timid, dizzy, with a heart rate of up to 130 beats per minute, and all my clothes were soaked.
此外，帮助危重症患者建立信心也很重要。
In addition, it is important to build confidence among critically ill patients.
记得有一位病人刚来的时候不怎么说话，进食也非常少，言行举止异于常人。
I remember one patient who didn't talk much when he first arrived, ate very little and behaved strangely.
于是我电话联系病人家属，发现她在入院前把后事都和家人交代了才来，所以病人是比较焦虑和紧张的。
So I called the patient's family and found out that she had told her family before she went to hospital, so the patient was anxious and nervous.
我们担心她会伤害自己，就把她身边的利器全都收起来了，每天吩咐护士多留意她的状态，关心和鼓励她。
Fearing that she might hurt herself, we put away all the sharp objects around her and told the nurse every day to pay more attention to her condition and care and encourage her.
她刚来的时候电话连电都没有，我就给她充好电让她和家里人能打电话。
When she first arrived without a phone call, I recharged her so that she and her family could call.
由于她用的是老人机无法视频，我还加了她丈夫的微信，让他们能够视频。
Since she was using an old man machine that couldn't be video-taped, I added a microphone from her husband to enable them to video.
两三天之后，她觉得自己胸闷症状也好一些了，开始感受到了我们对她的温暖和帮助，也对自己的治疗有了信心。
Two or three days later, she began to feel better about her chest tightness, to feel the warmth and help we gave her, and to feel confident in her treatment.
刚来医院时，晚上她都不能入睡，我们给她用了镇静的药物，看她睡着了之后我们才敢安心地离开病房。
When we first arrived at the hospital, she couldn't sleep at night. We gave her some sedative medication to see if she was asleep before we could safely leave the room.
后来，那位患者精神状态好了很多，胃口也变好了，还开始了正常的交流，最后病人出院的时候对我们很感谢。
Later, the patient was in a much better state of mind, his appetite improved and normal communication began. Finally, the patient came out of the hospital grateful to us.
核酸检测采样工作中不为人知的细节核酸检测的采样工作会因个人手法的不同而导致结果出现偏差。
Unknown details of nucleic acid sampling in nucleic acid detection sampling can lead to biases in results due to individual manipulation.
如果采集的上皮细胞不准确，有可能会出现假阴性或假阳性。
If the epithelial cells collected are inaccurate, false negatives or false positives may occur.
芦丹与同事相互加油打气。
Ludan and her colleagues cheered each other.
为了保证采样工作的准确性，为诊断和治疗提供真实依据，我们决定对每位患者安排固定的医护人员采样。
In order to ensure the accuracy of the sampling work and to provide a real basis for diagnosis and treatment, we decided to arrange a regular sampling for each patient.
我们采样的部位是咽后部，病人需要张开嘴巴来进行采样，这个时候是暴露最多的操作，感染风险很大。
We took samples from the back of the pharynx, and the patient had to open his mouth to take samples. This was the most exposed operation and there was a high risk of infection.
每天早晨芦丹都要进行核酸检测的采样工作。
Every morning, rutin is sampled for nucleic acid testing.
考虑到这个问题，我在科室最先开始了采样工作，因为我要把方法掌握好，并给大家做表率，告诉大家只要把防护做好，这个工作也没有那么危险，不需要过于紧张焦虑。
With this in mind, I started sampling in the department, because I wanted to master the method and lead by example, telling everyone that if I did the job well, the job would be less dangerous and less stressful.
有的病人耐受力比较好，能够张开嘴部配合医护人员取样，但有的病人耐受力则较弱。
Some patients have a good tolerance, can open mouth department to cooperate with medical personnel sampling, but some patients have weak tolerance.
我们把咽拭子擦到病人咽后部时，有的病人会反射性地恶心、呕吐和咳嗽甚至推开我们，这时候就会有很大的气体污染，增加大家的感染风险。
When we rub swabs on the back of the patient's pharynx, some patients will react nausea, vomiting, coughing, and even push us away.
还有的病人会持续长时间咳嗽，这时我们的取样就会有误差，需要重复采样。
Other patients will continue to cough for long periods of time, at which point we will have errors in sampling, requiring repeated sampling.
芦丹准备穿防护服进仓。
Ludan is ready to wear protective clothing into the warehouse.
采样之前，病人要先漱口，然后我们进行双人核对、贴标、取材、放置标本、手卫生、更换手套等工作，才能为下一个病人采样。
Before taking samples, patients need to rinse their mouthwash. Then we double check, label, pick up materials, place specimens, hand hygiene, change gloves, etc., before taking samples for the next patient.
平均一次采样需要3分钟，但遇到病人耐受力差，需要反复漱口、休息时则用时较长，我们最长的一次采样持续了10多分钟。
The average sample took three minutes, but the patient had poor tolerance, required repeated mouthwash and took longer to rest. Our longest sample lasted more than 10 minutes.
目前，我负责的两个病区已有120多名患者出院，在采样方面我已经有了比较丰富的经验。
At present, more than 120 patients have been discharged from the two disease areas I am in charge of, and I have more experience in sampling.
后期我们医院的外援队来的时候，我也对他们进行了采样培训，把我的经验方法和心得体会分享给他们。
Later when our hospital's foreign aid team came, I also took samples of their training, my experience, methods and experience to share with them.
独自完成科室第一例死亡的新冠肺炎患者遗体护理2月15日下午2点45分，一位新冠肺炎患者在医院抢救无效宣告临床死亡，这是我们科室第一例死亡的新冠肺炎患者。
At 2: 45 pm on Feb. 15, a New Crown Pneumonia patient was declared clinically dead in hospital, the first case of new crown pneumonia in our department.
我们立即告知和安抚家属，并按照要求开具死亡证明，联系殡仪馆。
We immediately informed and appeased the family and issued the required death certificate and contacted the funeral home.
虽然我们以前也接触过遗体护理，但是新冠肺炎患者的遗体护理比起普通患者有更高的消毒要求，此外护理工作的传染性也比较强，有些年轻的护士比较担心和害怕。
Although we have been exposed to the care of human remains before, the care of coronial pneumonia patients requires more disinfection than that of ordinary patients, and nursing work is also more infectious, with some young nurses more worried and fearful.
作为护士长，我不希望她们有恐慌的情绪，所以我独自完成了这例新冠肺炎患者的遗体护理工作。
As head nurse, I didn't want them to panic, so I finished the care of the body of the patient with Newcrown Pneumonia on my own.
护理新冠肺炎患者遗体首先需要用3000mg/L的含氯制剂喷洒遗体，再用3000mg/L的含氯消毒剂棉球或纱布填塞病人的口、鼻、耳、肛门等所有开放通道。
To care for patients with crowns pneumonia, 300 mg / L of chlorine-containing agent was first applied to the body, and 300 mg / L of chlorine-containing cotton ball or gauze was used to fill all open passages of the patient's mouth, nose, ears and anus.
对病人进行一些擦洗，更换干净的衣裤后，要用双层被含氯制剂浸湿的床单包裹遗体，或是用密封防渗漏双层遗体袋包裹遗体，遗体袋外层继续喷洒同等浓度的含氯制剂。
After a few scrubbing and changing of clean clothes, cover the body with a double-decker chlorine-infused sheet or wrap the body in a sealed, leakproof double-decker body bag, with the outer layer of the body continuing to be sprayed with chlorine-containing preparations at the same concentration.
一小时前，患者还是活生生的在我面前，做遗体护理时，我也会感到很大的心理压力。
An hour ago, the patient was still alive in front of me, the body care, I will also feel great psychological pressure.
我们在和病人接触的过程中也产生了感情，付出了很多心血，希望病人能被救治成功，遗憾的是，有的病人最终还是去世了。
In the course of our contact with our patients, we have developed emotions and put a lot of effort into the hope that they will be cured. Unfortunately, some patients eventually die.
在普通遗体的护理过程中，我们会把患者身上的管道都拔掉，帮他们擦洗身体，换上整洁的衣服，让他们能够安详、有尊严地被送走。
During the care of ordinary bodies, we remove pipes from the bodies of patients, wash them, change them into clean clothes and allow them to be sent away in peace and dignity.
但一想到新冠肺炎患者离开时口腔等开放通道里要塞满含氯消毒剂的棉球，身上还裹着被含氯制剂浸湿的床单，我内心也感到很难过。
But it pains me to think of the chlorine-filled cotton pellets in open passageways, such as the mouth, when patients with pneumonia leave, and the chlorine-soaked sheets wrapped around me.
记得在护理第一例因新冠肺炎死亡的患者的遗体之前，我很心痛，对她说：“奶奶您一路走好，我送您最后一程。
I remember feeling very sad before nursing the body of the first patient who died of pneumonia in the New Crown. I said to her, "Grandma, you go all the way, I'll give you a final lift.
”离家一个半月，家人帮助解决后顾之忧自1月21日起我就没有回过家，医院就是我的家。
I haven't been home since January 21, and the hospital is my home.
我离开家时其实连告别的机会都没有。
When I left home I didn't even get a chance to say goodbye.
1月21日上午，我去上班时还不知道自己会有很长一段时间不能回家了。
On the morning of January 21st I went to work unaware that I would not be able to go home for a long time.
那天一早接到通知成立呼吸与危重症医学科六病区，中午就开始转移病人，下午把仪器设备都转移到另一个科室，开始收治病人，直到晚上10点才把工作做完。
Early that morning, he was notified of the establishment of Respiratory and Critical Medicine Division Six. He began to transfer patients at noon, transferred his instruments to another department in the afternoon and began to treat patients until 10 p.m.
我13岁的儿子正在上中学，学校的老师知道我是一线的医护人员，就对孩子特别照顾，上网课的时候很关心他。
My 13-year-old son was in high school, and the school teachers knew I was a front-line health care worker, so I took special care of my children and took care of him in online classes.
有一次，老师组织了一个一线医护人员子女分享故事的班会，我儿子写了一篇名叫《我的天使妈妈》的作文在班会上念，“希望战役结束后，妈妈可以早点回来”。
My son wrote a composition called "My angel mother" at the class meeting. "I hope my mother will come back early after the battle."
那时，我才知道他还是很舍不得妈妈，只是作为男孩子，他可能不太好意思直接向我表达。
At that time, I know he is still very reluctant to give up his mother, just as a boy, he may not be good enough to express directly to me.
我跟他说，“妈妈要让这边的病人都安心、健康的出院，然后妈妈就可以回来。
I told him, "Mom wants the patients here to get out of the hospital in peace and health, and then Mom can come back.
”家里还有个2岁的小女儿，由我的家人们一起照顾，他们为我解决了很多后顾之忧，让我能放心在一线战斗。
The family also had a 2-year-old daughter, whom my family took care of together, who helped me cope with a lot of worries and put me at ease fighting on the front line.
患者在留言本上写下对医护人员的感恩与祝福。
In the message book, the patient writes the gratitude and blessing to the medical staff.
截至3月1日，两个病区出院人数已达120人，很多患者出院时在留言本上写下了感激的话语。
As of March 1, 120 people had been discharged from the two affected areas, and many patients had written words of gratitude in their message books as they left the hospital.
有一位患者写道：“非常感谢你们在我生病期间对我的关心和照顾，你们工作极其认真负责，才使得我能这么快恢复健康。
One patient wrote: "Thank you very much for the care and attention you gave me during my illness. You have worked very hard and responsibly to get me back to health so quickly.
你们是伟大的白衣天使，疫情到来，你们勇战一线，正因为有了你们这些天使，才使得我们安康。
You are the great angels in white. The epidemic is coming. You are on the frontlines. It is because of you, the angels, that we are well.
千言万语也无法表达对你们的感谢，疫情期间，你们也要注意保护好自己，平平安安回家。
A thousand words can not express the gratitude to you, during the epidemic, you should also pay attention to protect themselves, safe and sound home.
风雨过后，一定会有彩虹。
After the storm, there must be a rainbow.
加油！再次感谢所有医护人员，你们辛苦了！”看到这些充满感恩的话语，我们也觉得这一个多月的辛勤付出都是值得的。
Come on! Thanks again to all the medical staff, you have worked hard! "Seeing these words full of gratitude, we also feel that this more than a month of hard work is worth.
2月28日，医院呼吸与危重症医学科五病区的病人开始陆续全部转移到呼吸六病区，现在两个病区合成了一个病区，病人数由80减到20多名。
On February 28, all patients in the five-patient respiratory and critically ill area began to move to the respiratory area. Now the two areas have combined to form an area, reducing the number of patients from 80 to more than 20.
我们已经度过了最艰难的时候，我想，这次抗击新冠肺炎战役的胜利就在前方了。
We've had the toughest times, and I think the battle against the New Crown Pneumonia is ahead.
本期编辑邢潭推荐阅读。
This issue editor Xingtan recommended reading.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一线护士长口述：核酸检测采样工作中不为人知的细节。
First-line head nurse oral: Nucleic acid detection sampling in unknown details.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "一线护士长口述：核酸检测采样工作中不为人知的细节";。
var msg _ title = & quot; first-line head nurse's oral statement: unknown details of RNA testing and sampling;;
var msg_desc = "这次抗击新冠肺炎战役的胜利就在前方了。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; The battle against New Crown Pneumonia is a victory ahead.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '除湖北外，快递就要恢复正常了',。
With the exception of Hubei, express service has returned to normal.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '武汉，不能后退的理由',。
Wuhan, the reason why it was not possible to fall back.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '上报确诊病例为负数，湖北荆门书记、市长被诫勉',。
AT & amp; # 39; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
