连载·黄冈日记①｜“穿防护服戴口罩和护目镜”的人突然来了_直击现场_澎湃新闻-The Paper。
Leg's diary, "Wear protective clothing, masks, and goggles." Suddenly, the man hit the scene _ surging news, The Paper.
报料。
News feed.
注册。
Registration.
登录。
Login.
下载APP。
Download APP.
精选。
Selected.
抗疫。
Anti-epidemic.
抗疫防控新型冠状病毒肺炎。
Anti-epidemic control of new coronavirus pneumonia.
。
.
视频。
Video.
上直播。
Live broadcast.
拉近你与现场距离。
Bring you closer to the scene.
七环视频。
Seven-ring video.
为了更美好的生活。
For a better life.
温度计。
Thermometers.
深度记录社会冷暖。
Depth of record society warm and cold.
一级视场。
Level 1 field of view.
及时现场，洞察财经事件。
On-site, insight into financial issues.
World湃。
World surging.
看见新闻全球化。
See the globalization of information.
湃客科技。
Pai guest technology.
聚焦前沿，展现新兴企业。
Focus on the frontier and showcase emerging businesses.
纪录湃。
The record runs high.
纪录澎湃中国。
China is on record.
围观。
Look around.
以影像介入社会生活。
Imaging into social life.
@所有人。
@ All.
所有人在看。
Everyone's watching.
大都会。
Metropolis.
看上海 最都会。
It's the best city in Shanghai.
追光灯。
Searchlight.
让你看到文艺生活。
Let you see the literary life.
运动装。
Sportswear.
直观运动，可以装不要伪装。
Intuitive movement, can be installed without camouflage.
健寻记。
Health care.
追寻活到一百岁的秘诀。
The secret to living to be a hundred years old.
AI播报。
AI announces.
互联网新闻+：AI播报。
Internet news +: AI broadcasts.
眼界。
Eye-catching.
每日一条视频，与新闻同步。
One video per day, synced with the news.
时事。
Current affairs.
中国政库洞悉中国动向的时政解读。
China's treasurer has insight into the current state of affairs in China.
中南海权威细致的领导人报道。
Zhongnanhai authority meticulous leader report.
舆论场倾听复杂世界的弦外之音。
Opinion circles listen to the implications of the complex world.
打虎记中国反腐报道第一平台。
Tiger Kit China Anti-Corruption Report First Platform.
人事风向快速专业的人事信息集合地。
Personnel wind speed and professional collection of personnel information.
法治中国司改风向，法治观察。
Rule of Law China Division wind direction, rule of law observation.
一号专案司法个案，法治调查。
Ad hoc Judicial Case No. 1, Rule of Law Investigations.
港台来信感觉不一样的港台报道。
RTHK's letter feels different from RTHK's report.
长三角政商解读区域政情与财富故事。
The Yangtze River Delta political and economic interpretation of regional political and wealth story.
直击现场第一现场，文图视频直播。
Click on the scene of the first scene, text video live.
公益湃记录公益发展，共建责任生态。
Public welfare record of public welfare development, jointly build ecological responsibility.
。
.
暖闻人间真善美，社会正能量。
Hear the world is good and beautiful, society is positive energy.
。
.
澎湃质量报告打假除劣，破套防坑——专注消费者权益保护。
Pai Pai quality report to fight fraud and shoddy, broken pit - focus on consumer rights and interests protection.
绿政公署环境与公共健康调查。
Environmental and Public Health Survey of the Green Administration.
澎湃国际All News In。
All News In, Peng Pai.
外交学人New World Order。
Diplomat New World Order.
澎湃防务Cyclopedia for military。
Cyclopedia for military defence.
唐人街海外利益，华人故事。
Overseas Interests in Chinatown, Chinese Stories.
澎湃人物提供最有态度的人物报道。
The roaring characters provide the most critical coverage of the characters.
浦江头条上海每天最重要的事件。
The most important events of the day in Shanghai.
教育家最先进的教育理念在此碰撞。
Educators' most advanced educational ideas collide here.
全景现场360度感识全景现场。
Panoramic scene 360-degree panorama scene.
美数课数字是骨骼，设计是灵魂。
Numbers are bones; design is the soul.
快看快看，图片会说话。
Look quick. Pictures talk.
财经。
Finance.
10%公司派发上市公司变革红利。
10 per cent distribute change dividends to listed companies.
能见度能源行业最具穿透力的思想。
Visibility The most penetrating thinking in the energy industry.
地产界地产界所有你想知道的事儿。
Real estate Everything you want to know.
财经上下游跨界找寻市场常识。
Cross-boundary market common sense.
金改实验室金融创新灵感集散地。
Financial innovation center of Jinchang Lab.
牛市点线面简单专业时尚的财富平台。
Bull market simple professional fashion wealth platform.
科技湃让我们走近科学。
Technology has brought us closer to science.
澎湃商学院品牌课外书，生活经济学。
Peng Pai Business School Brand Extracurricular Books, Life Economics.
自贸区连线自贸区第一信息和服务平台。
Free Trade Area line free trade area first information and service platform.
进博会在线走进中国国际进口博览会。
Into the Fair online into China International Import Expo.
澎湃号。
'cried the roar.
湃客。
The roar.
政务。
Government affairs.
媒体。
The media.
思想。
Ideas.
社论澎湃的立场。
The editorial was strong.
澎湃评论在这里知道更多。
Pai Pai comments know more here.
思想湃明亮的对话，澎湃的思想。
Thoughts of bright dialogue, surging thoughts.
上海书评全球百位华文写作名家撰稿。
The Shanghai Book Review is written by 100 leading Chinese writers.
思想市场有竞争的思想讲底蕴的政治。
The thought market has the competitive thought to speak the underlying politics.
私家历史发现历史之美。
Private history finds the beauty of history.
翻书党微时代的首选书单。
Turn over the book party microage first choice book list.
艺术评论独立态度解析中外艺术热点。
Artistic Comment Independent Attitude Analyzes the Hot Spots of Chinese and Foreign Art.
古代艺术巡礼人类的艺术遗产。
Ancient Art Parades the artistic heritage of mankind.
文化课关注人文景观投身人类文明。
Cultural courses focus on humanistic landscape into human civilization.
逝者记录逝者为世界留下的财富。
The dead record the wealth left to the world by the dead.
澎湃研究所为中国城市问题提供澎湃方案。
The Peng Pai Institute offers a robust programme on urban issues in China.
。
.
市政厅中国城市问题专家。
City Hall of China experts on urban issues.
城市漫步人塑造地方，地方也塑造人。
Urban strollers shape places, and places shape people.
智库报告展示全球最具价值的智库研究成果。
The think tank report showcases the world's most valuable think tank research.
专栏名家专家，上天入地。
An expert columnist.
异次元打破次元壁。
Heterogeneous element breaks the secondary wall.
生活。
Life.
有戏陪你过一种审美的生活。
Have a play to accompany you to live an aesthetic life.
文艺范一线文艺生活。
Literary and artistic life.
身体探索身体的奥秘。
The body explores the secrets of the body.
私·奔跑步是一种态度。
Personal running is an attitude.
运动家看体育如何改变世界。
Athletes see how sport can change the world.
私家地理旅途的旨趣、技艺以及乡愁。
The Purport, Skill, and Nostalgia of the Private Geographic Journey.
非常品用态度引领时尚。
A very good attitude leads to fashion.
楼市不一样的楼市观察。
Different property market observation.
生活方式更好生活，我们有一些意见。
We have some suggestions for a better way of life.
澎湃联播半个段子兽半个评论猿。
Half a section of the beast commented on apes.
视界视界观，观世界。
Look at the world, look at the world.
亲子学堂理解孩子，认知自己。
Parents and children learn to understand their children, know themselves.
赢家直击中国体育产业生存现状。
Winners strike at the survival of China's sports industry.
汽车圈专注汽车产经报道。
Auto industry focus on the auto industry report.
问吧。
'he asked.
订阅。
Subscriptions.
把你最喜欢的栏目添加到这里来哦。
Add your favorite column here.
马上登录。
Sign in now.
setMsgMark(); //login异步之后调用位置修改。
Call location modification after setMsgMark; / / login asynchronous.
// 顶部广告自适应。
/ / Top Advertising Adaptability.
// xml返回了creativeHeight。
/ / xml returned creativeLight.
//图片拓展图片时。
/ / Photo when expanding the picture.
if(typeof(xml.find("Cexpansion")[0])!="undefined"){   //是否需要展开。
If (typeof (xml. find; Cempansion & quot;) & # 91; 0 & # 93;)! = & quot; underdefined & quot;) {/ / whether it needs to be carried out.
var cexpansion = xml.find("Cexpansion")[0].textContent.trim();//展开时。
var text = xml. find (& quot; Cempansion & quot;) & # 91; 0 & # 93; .text Content.
//图片拓展视频时   。
/ / Photo when expanding the video.
//视频拓展视频时。
/ / Video when expanding the video.
//收起广告。
/ / Put the ad away.
//将 http://或者https:// 转为//。
/ / Conversion from http: / / https: / / to /.
首页。
Home page.
> 直击现场。
Running straight to the scene.
连载·黄冈日记①｜“穿防护服戴口罩和护目镜”的人突然来了。
The man in protective clothing, masks, and goggles suddenly appeared.
特邀作者 杨梅 程定琴 郝诗光 金昊 澎湃新闻记者 方岸 杜心羽 吴佳颖 整理。
Invited author Yang Mei-ding qin Hao Shi Guang Jin Hao Peng Pai journalist Fang Xin Yu Wu Jia Ying tidy.
2020-03-06 07:12 来源：澎湃新闻。
2020-03-06 07: 12 Source: news surging.
字号。
The font size.
超大。
Extremely large.
大。
Big.
标准。
Standards.
小。
Small.
【编者按】新冠病毒给湖北乃至全国带来一场危机，黄冈是这场疫情的重灾区之一。
The new crown virus brings a crisis to Hubei and even to the whole country. Huanggang is one of the hardest hit areas of the epidemic.
在这场战役中，黄冈人经历了旁观-卷入-创伤-斗争-反思的过程。
In this battle, the Huanggang people experienced the process of watching-involved-traumatizing-fighting-introspection.
我们用亲历者日记连载的形式，试图纵深还原疫情侵袭下的黄冈这60天。
We tried to restore Huanggang to 60 days under the attack of the epidemic in the form of a diary series of relatives.
2019年12月30日，武汉市卫健委《关于做好不明原因肺炎救治工作的紧急通知》证实，武汉市部分医疗机构陆续出现不明原因肺炎病人。
On December 30, 2019, the Wuhan Health Commission's Emergency Notice Concerning the Treatment of Unknown Causes of Pneumonia confirmed that patients with unexplained pneumonia were appearing in some medical institutions in Wuhan.
第二天，武汉市卫健委向媒体表示：到目前为止调查未发现明显人传人现象。
The next day, Wuhan Health Commission told the media: So far the investigation has found no significant human-to-human phenomenon.
（斜体字内容为编者所加，下同。
(Text in italics refers to additions by editors, same as below).
）【杨梅：黄冈市中心医院呼吸内科护士】1月1日至1月7日黄冈市中心医院呼吸内科济康楼六楼。
Yangmei: Department of Respiratory Medicine Nurse, Huanggang Central Hospital, January 1-7, 2006.
冬春季节呼吸道疾病多发，元旦前后，科室里病患骤然增多。
Respiratory diseases in winter and spring season, around New Year's Day, the number of patients in departments suddenly increased.
3日，科室收治了一例病毒性肺炎患者（注：后被确诊新冠肺炎）。
3, the department admitted a case of viral pneumonia (Note: after the diagnosis of new crown pneumonia).
这例病患并不是一个人，而是一对夫妻。
The patient was not a man, but a couple.
妻子刘某50岁，超市卖干果，无武汉接触史，以“咳嗽胸闷一周”入院的。
His wife Liu 50 years old, supermarket sales dried fruit, no Wuhan contact history, to "cough chest stuffy week" admission.
她的丈夫孔某，53岁，中心菜场送货员，有活禽接触史，本来是陪同来照顾她，做完CT后，发现他的情况竟然比他妻子更严重。
Her husband Kongmou, 53, the center of the vegetable field delivery, has a history of contact with live poultry, was accompanied to take care of her, after CT, found that his situation is more serious than his wife.
科室的床位紧张，刘某被安排在病房走廊的加床；孔某因为病情严重，虽然有自理能力，但是医生还是下了病危通知，并要求他吸氧，将他安排进了病房里。
The bed of department is tight, Liu Mou is arranged in ward corridor add a bed; because of serious condition, although Kong Mou has the ability to take care of oneself, but the doctor still gave notice of critically ill, ask him to breathe oxygen, put him into the ward.
当时，我们以为只是普通的病毒性肺炎，只不过比一般的人要严重一点，一切的工作生活依然有条不紊地进行着，却不知这隐形的危险已经环绕在我们的四周了。
At the time, we thought it was just common viral pneumonia, but a little more serious than the average person, and all working life was going on in an orderly way, not knowing that the hidden danger had surrounded us.
随后的几天，科室陆陆续续又接诊了几例类似的病人。
In the following days, the department continued to receive several similar cases of patients.
1月初，武汉的“不明肺炎”消息渐渐传开，黄冈市也收治了多例疑似病患。
Early in January, word spread of "unidentified pneumonia" in Wuhan, Huanggang city also received a number of suspected patients.
此时多数黄冈人仍不了解这些信息，即便知晓一些，也只当并不相干的遥远的事情。
At this point most Huanggang people still do not understand this information, even if know some, but also as irrelevant and distant things.
人们该工作还得工作，柴米油盐的日子还像往常一样。
People had to work, and the days of bread and butter were as usual.
黄冈市的“两会”也如常举行。
The "NPC and CPPCC" held in Huanggang also held as usual.
【郝诗光：江岸名都小区综合党支部书记，业委会副主任】1月1日今天是元旦。
Hao Shi-guang: the secretary of the comprehensive party branch in the river bank name district, deputy director of the industry committee today is New Year's Day.
胜哥的老婆方芳从原单位辞职后在光谷开始了母婴护理行业的创业，遇到了一些推广方面的问题。
Sung brother's wife Fang Fang resigned from the original unit in Guanggu started a mother and child care industry start-up, encountered some promotional problems.
他们觉得我在社群营销方面可能比较专业，多次邀请我到他们武汉公司去一趟。
They thought I might be more professional in community marketing and invited me to visit their Wuhan company several times.
趁着元旦，我登上从黄冈到武汉的城铁，一方面看能不能帮助他们解决一些问题，一方面也带着孩子到武汉放松一下。
Taking advantage of the New Year's Day, I boarded the city railway from Huanggang to Wuhan, on the one hand, to see if I can help them solve some problems, on the other hand, with the children to Wuhan to relax.
胜哥开车到武汉站来接我到光谷。
ShengGe drove to Wuhan Station to pick me up in Guanggu.
我跟他开玩笑说，我这是冒着生命危险来到武汉。
I joked with him that I was risking my life to come to Wuhan.
昨天在朋友圈里疯传的武汉华南海鲜市场的一些照片确实比较有杀伤力，一夜之间各个群里都是在讨论这个事情。
Some of the photos of Wuhan's South China seafood market, which went wild in the circle of friends yesterday, were indeed quite lethal, and were discussed overnight in various groups.
武汉的华南海鲜市场 张畅 （资料图）我观察了一下从城铁出口到出站的整个过程，武汉人民非常淡定，谈笑自若。
Wuhan South China Seafood Market Zhang Chang (map) I observed the entire process from the exit to the exit of the city iron, Wuhan people very calm, laughing.
我一边跟胜哥闲谈，一边在想那些把文件截图传播的人到底是何许人也？现在许多事件都是通过一些截图、摄像头视频引爆发酵的，他们又如何拿到这第一手的信源呢？好在光谷与华南海鲜市场隔着几条湖泊江河，想必病毒蔓延过来也不是件容易的事吧。
As I chatted with my brother-in-law, I wondered who the people who had posted the footage were, and how they got the first-hand source of the message, given the fact that the virus must have spread over several lakes and rivers across the South China seafood market.
中午吃午饭的时候，又谈到了昨天晚上疯传的感染事件，他们问我，“非典”的时候你在哪儿？我一下子有了吹牛的资本了。
At lunchtime, they talked about last night's wild infection, and they asked me where you were when SARS hit me.
“非典”第一次成为“事件”的时候，我正在广东顺德去深圳的路上。
When SARS first became an "event," I was on my way to Shenzhen from Shunde, Guangdong.
司机老杨接到一个电话，说是深圳不少人患上“怪毛病”了，特效药是醋和板蓝根，深圳当地早已脱销，要在顺德就地采购一些，要不然回深圳就是死路一条。
Yang received a phone call, said that many people in Shenzhen suffered from "strange diseases," the specific drugs are vinegar and Banlangen, Shenzhen has long been sold out, to Shunde some local procurement, or return to Shenzhen is a dead end.
我们赶紧到一个菜市场去买，果不其然，顺德也脱销了。
We hastened to a vegetable market to buy, certainly, Shunde also sold out.
不过我当时恋爱失败事业无成身无长物，反而比一般人要豁达。
However, I failed to love the cause of nothing, but more open-minded than ordinary people.
晚上到深圳后，空气中弥漫着一股酸味，想必大家都被“熏陶”过了。
After arriving in Shenzhen at night, the air is filled with a sour smell, presumably we have been "edified".
睡了一晚上，第二天依然活得挺好。
After a night's sleep, he still lived well the next day.
当时移动互联网不如现在发达，只有看报纸了解情况。
The mobile Internet was not as developed as it is now.
“非典”暴发是在数月之后。
The SARS outbreak came months later.
武汉回黄冈的车上，几乎没有讨论这个话题。
Wuhan back to Huanggang on the car, almost no discussion of this topic.
我看着在身边的熊孩子，一片惘然：再过七天，他就要放寒假了，神兽出笼，威力无穷，我得先把他安排好。
I looked at the bear and child beside me, lost in my sense: in seven days, he was going to have a winter vacation, and the monster was coming out of his cage.
【金昊：新冠肺炎已愈患者】1月1日我从黄冈开车到武汉，准备到汉街买衣服，顺便逛逛街。
Jin Hao: New Crown Pneumonia Patient: January 1 I drove from Huanggang to Wuhan, ready to buy clothes in Han Street, by the way.
这一两天，我从新闻看到武汉出现“不明肺炎”，但是听说不会人传人，完全没有放在心上。
This one or two days, I saw Wuhan from the news "unknown pneumonia," but I heard that will not be passed from person to person, completely ignored.
身边很多朋友甚至都不知道这个事。
Many of my friends don't even know about this.
我是黄冈人，在武汉也有房子，我的公司也注册在武汉。
I am a Huanggang people, in Wuhan also have a house, my company is also registered in Wuhan.
两个城市相距七八十公里，从黄冈城区黄州出发，开车到武汉市中心不到一个小时。
The two cities are seventy-eight kilometers apart and drive less than an hour from Huangzhou in Huanggang City to the center of Wuhan.
通常每个月，我都会去武汉一两次，或办事，或购物，或会友。
Usually every month, I will go to Wuhan once or twice, either to do business, shopping, or friends.
那天是周四，可汉街的热闹不输往常的周末。
It was Thursday, but Han Street was busy as usual on the weekend.
快过年了，又赶上学生放假，满大街都是人。
It was almost New Year's Eve, and the students had a holiday.
商场里买好衣服，已是傍晚时分。
It was late evening in the shopping mall to buy good clothes.
楚河两岸的夜景灯光亮了起来，与河面交相辉映；汉街上，商场酒店外高低错落的店招霓虹灯也闪烁起来。
The lights of the night on both sides of the Chu River gleamed against the river; neon lights flashed from the shops outside the mall hotels on Han Street.
我在街上找了一家日料店，一个人吃个便饭。
I found a grocery store in the street and had a potluck dinner all by myself.
日料店里没有闲桌，服务员小跑着穿梭上菜。
There were no free tables in the grocery store, and waiters trotted through the food.
1月2日至7日1日晚我开车回到黄冈。
I drove back to Huanggang on the night of January 2 to 7.
2日是今年黄冈市政协会议报到的日子，我是市政协委员，当天下午要履行报到程序。
On the 2nd, the reporting day of this year's Huanggang Municipal Consultative Conference, I was a member of the Municipal Association, that afternoon will perform check-in procedures.
接下去一直到7日都是开“两会”的日子。
The two sessions continued until July.
白天参会，晚上回家吃饭，每天都很规律。
Attend meetings during the day and come home for dinner at night. Everyday is regular.
政协会议上，每天都与黄冈各界人士交流讨论，可这几天，我没听到黄冈有“新冠肺炎”传播的消息，也没听闻身边的朋友、熟人有人因“不明肺炎”进医院。
At the CPPCC meeting, I had exchanges with people from all walks of life in Huanggang every day, but these days, I did not hear the news of "New Crown Pneumonia" spread, nor did I hear of friends, acquaintances around the "unknown pneumonia" into the hospital.
农历年前，黄冈的一切活动照常。
Before the lunar year, all activities in Huanggang were as usual.
年前公司的业务渐渐减少，安排时间跟员工们聚了个餐，吃了个年饭。
A few years ago the company's business dwindled down, and time was set aside for a dinner with the staff and a New Year's dinner.
后面几天，朋友的公司、合作伙伴的公司，年会、聚餐，我也被邀请参加了不少。
Over the next few days, friends of the company, partners of the company, annual meetings, dinner, I was also invited to participate in many.
黄冈大大小小的饭店订餐都很紧张，如果不提前几天预定，哪天临时想包个场子基本没谱。
Huanggang large and small restaurants are very nervous to order meals, if not a few days in advance, one day temporary to pack a basic spectrum.
一线的医护们，此时还没摸到“不明肺炎”的脾气，不知道它即将展现的巨大“杀伤力”。
The front-line medical staff, at this time has not touched the "unknown pneumonia" temper, do not know it is about to show the great "lethality."
穿着普通的护士衣帽，戴着普通的医用口罩，有人无奈自嘲在“裸奔”着上班。
Dressed in ordinary nurses' caps and ordinary medical masks, some people laugh at themselves as they "run naked" to work.
【程定琴：黄冈市中心医院呼吸内科护士】1月7日今天上班的时候，来了5位市疾控中心的工作人员，穿白色厚实的防护服，戴着N95口罩和护目镜，裹得严严实实出现在病房时，立刻引来了一阵骚动。
[Ching Ding-qin: Nursing of Respiratory Medicine, Huanggang Central Hospital] When five CDC staff arrived at work today, dressed in thick white suits, N95 masks and goggles, and wrapped up in their wards, a commotion ensued.
这种只有小时候在电视播放“非典”新闻时，才见到过的装备，结合这几天听闻的武汉不明原因肺炎的消息，我心里隐隐生出一种不好的预感。
Only when I was a child in the television broadcast of "SARS" news, only to see the equipment, combined with these days of news of unknown causes of pneumonia in Wuhan, I have a vague sense of bad feeling.
黄冈市疾控中心的工作人员穿着白色厚实的防护服，来为患者采样他们先是去病房访谈了几个这两天来的新病人，又请我们帮忙给那几个病人抽取静脉血标本。
Workers at the CDC in Huanggang came to sample patients in thick white suits. They first went to the ward to interview several new patients over the past two days and asked us to help them take blood samples.
抽血的时候，我穿着普通的护士衣帽，戴着普通医用外科口罩，站在他们中间显得格格不入。
When I was bleeding, I stood between them in my ordinary nurse's hat and ordinary medical surgical mask.
当时我心里就已经有点恐惧，但还是很镇定地把需要采集的标本一一采集完成。
At that time I was a little bit afraid, but still very calm to collect the samples to be collected one by one.
事后赶紧按“七步洗手法”严格执行手卫生。
Haste to follow the "seven-step washing" strict hand hygiene.
被抽血的病人中，孔先生和他的妻子刘女士是最早来的。
Mr. Kong and his wife, Ms. Liu, were among the first patients to have their blood taken.
我记得很清楚，他们是1月3日来住院的，当时正值我当班。
I remember clearly that they had come to the hospital on January 3, when I was on duty.
还记得入院的时候给他一口气抽了十几管血化验，取了咽拭子，想想都有些后怕。
Remembering to give him a breath when admission to a dozen tube of blood tests, took swabs, think a little afraid.
一起上班的同事私下也在讨论，大家都在猜测，这几个病人很可能就是传说的“不明原因肺炎”。
Colleagues at work were also discussing it in private, and everyone was speculating that the patients were probably the legendary "unidentified pneumonia."
这之前科室就已经讨论过这几个病人的病情。
The department had previously discussed the condition of the patients.
这次看到市疾控中心工作人员的到来，无形之中给这些不确定的事情又蒙上了一层面纱。
This time saw the arrival of CDC staff, invisible to these uncertain things again covered a layer of veil.
继而，我们接到上级通知，被要求想办法腾出病房，尽量用单间收治那几个病人。
Then we were told by our superiors to find a way to vacate the ward and try to take in those patients in a single room.
可是科室现实情况很难做到。
However, section reality is difficult to achieve.
每年冬天天气一变冷，我们呼吸内科都是一床难求，甚至走廊加床都收不过来。
Every winter when the weather gets cold, our respiratory department is hard to find, even the corridor plus bed can not be collected.
看到这一连串的变动，想想我们每天上班，除了护士衣帽和普通医用外科口罩，没有其他更好的防护。
As we watch this succession of changes, think of the fact that we work every day with no better protection than a nurse's hat and a general medical surgical mask.
每天，我们要给这几位“不明肺炎”病人做晨间护理，打针，换药，抽血，取咽拭子等各项护理，避免不了的各种密切接触，我们每个人内心都非常的恐慌。
Every day, we give these "unknown pneumonia" patients to do morning care, injection, change medicine, blood extraction, swabs and other care, the inevitable close contact, we are all very much in panic.
那阵子科室病人都住满了，上班期间忙，根本容不得我们分神想那些细思极恐的细节。
We were so busy at work during that time that we couldn't even concentrate on the details of what we were afraid of.
好不容易忙得差不多，下班时要换下工作服，穿上自己的衣服。
I'm so busy that I have to change my work clothes and put on my clothes.
离开科室之前，我们恨不能洗手洗掉一层皮，才戴上口罩回家。
Before leaving the department, we would like to wash our hands off a layer of skin before wearing a mask home.
回到家，我第一时间给在老家的爸妈打电话，说了此次“不明肺炎”的事，一再告诫他们出门一定戴好口罩。
When I got home, I called my parents back home to tell them about the "unknown pneumonia" and repeatedly told them to wear masks outside.
他们完全不了解这些事，觉得我太大惊小怪了，只说让我自己照顾好自己。
They didn't know anything about it, and they thought I was making a fuss, saying only that I should take care of myself.
接着我又一一跟我两个姐姐、我小姑子重复了一遍。
Then I repeated them one by one to my sisters, my sister-in-law.
结果还是一样，她们听不进去。
The result was the same that they could not hear.
更确切地说，她们很不屑。
To be more precise, they disdain it.
我只觉得特别无奈，只能在心里默默祈祷真的只是谣传。
I just feel very helpless, can only silently pray in the heart is really just rumor.
【未完待续】（澎湃新闻记者 明鹊 朱莹 协助联系作者，对系列报道亦有贡献）(本文来自澎湃新闻，更多原创资讯请下载“澎湃新闻”APP)。
) (Press Release) (Magpie Chu Ying, Peng Pai journalist, helped to contact the author and contributed to the series) (This article is from Pai Pai News. For more original information, please download the "Pai Pai News" APP.)
【专题】防控新冠肺炎。
Topic: Prevention and control of new crown pneumonia.
责任编辑：储静伟图片编辑：施佳慧。
Responsibility Editor: Shu Jingwei Photo Editor: Shi Jiahui.
澎湃新闻报料：4009-20-4009  澎湃新闻，未经授权不得转载。
Pai news: 4009-20-4009 surging news, not allowed to reproduce without authorization.
关键词 >> 抗疫日记,黄冈,抗疫,日记。
Key words & gt; & gt; plague diary, Huanggang, plague, diary.
收藏。
Collection.
跟踪: 抗疫日记。
Tracking: Anti-epidemic diary.
相关推荐。
Relevant recommendations.
图解｜湖北新冠肺炎新增确诊病例降至366例。
Illustration: The number of newly diagnosed cases of Xinguang pneumonia in Hubei dropped to 366.
6天“零新增”的黄冈3天之内增3例，官方：没理由放松警惕。
6-day "zero new" Huang Gang within three days increased 3 cases, official: There is no reason to relax vigilance.
图解｜3例：湖北除武汉外新冠肺炎新增确诊连续5日个位数。
Photo 3: Except Wuhan new crown pneumonia newly diagnosed in Hubei 5 consecutive days.
评论（254）。
Comment (254).
热新闻。
Hot news.
一天。
One day.
三天。
Three days.
一周。
One week.
福建泉州酒店坍塌事故已致6人死亡，28人正在搜救。
The Quanzhou Hotel collapse in Fujian Province has killed six people and left 28 in search and rescue.
泉州坍塌酒店房主已被警方控制，事故系在改装作业时发生。
The owner of Quanzhou's collapsed hotel was under police control and the accident occurred during a retrofit operation.
乘公交致13人感染，研究：新冠在密闭空调车厢可传4.5米。
Public transport infects 13 people, study: The new crown in a closed air-conditioned compartment can be transmitted 4.5 meters.
全球战疫丨欧洲疫情蔓延，德国拦截瑞士24万只口罩。
Germany intercepts 240,000 Swiss face masks as the global epidemic spreads into Europe.
一图了解新冠肺炎世界疫情形势：中国境外确诊病例超2万。
Picture shows the world epidemic situation of New Crown Pneumonia: more than 20, 000 confirmed cases outside China.
福建泉州酒店坍塌事故已致10人死亡，正在搜救的还有23人。
A hotel collapse in Quanzhou, Fujian, has killed 10 people, with 23 others in search and rescue.
新研究：新冠患者病毒存在快速进化风险，需更多序列追踪进化。
NEW STUDY: Viruses in patients with the new crown present a risk of rapid evolution, requiring more sequences to track evolution.
中国力量！张伟丽击败乔安娜，卫冕UFC女子草量级金腰带。
Chinese power! Zhang Weili beat Joanna, defend the UFC women's grass weight gold belt.
这个H5，告诉你中国的女性可以有多好、有多强！。
This H5 tells you how good and strong Chinese women can be!
专访丨沈奕斐谈妇女节：女性依旧需要全方面发出声音的机会。
Interviews into Women's Day: Women still need a full voice
福建泉州酒店坍塌事故已致6人死亡，28人正在搜救。
The Quanzhou Hotel collapse in Fujian Province has killed six people and left 28 in search and rescue.
伊朗新增新冠肺炎确诊病例1076例，累计确诊5823例。
There were 1076 newly diagnosed cases of new crown pneumonia in Iran and 5,823 cases were diagnosed cumulatively.
孝感安陆一纪委干部感染新冠肺炎去世。
Filial piety An Lu a discipline committee cadre infects new crown pneumonia dies.
马上评丨为上海守好门，也为全国守好门。
It is a good choice for Shanghai and for the whole country.
55岁中建集团原董事长官庆病逝，去年9月卸任。
Guanqing, 55, the group's former chairman, died and left office last September.
云南一种新蝙蝠冠状病毒力证新冠起源于自然！提示重组线索。
A new strain of coronavirus in Yunnan Province originated from nature!
20人“一线医务人员抗疫巾帼英雄谱”名单公布，有两人已逝。
Two of the 20 people whose names appear on the first-line medical personnel's heroic spectrum have died.
泉州坍塌酒店房主已被警方控制，事故系在改装作业时发生。
The owner of Quanzhou's collapsed hotel was under police control and the accident occurred during a retrofit operation.
“梅姨”案中被拐15年的少年找到了，其父母已赴广州将认亲。
"Aunt May" case was abducted for 15 years to find the young people, their parents have gone to Guangzhou to adopt.
乘公交致13人感染，研究：新冠在密闭空调车厢可传4.5米。
Public transport infects 13 people, study: The new crown in a closed air-conditioned compartment can be transmitted 4.5 meters.
中央和国家机关在广大党员中积极开展自愿捐款。
The central and state organs actively solicit voluntary contributions from all Party members.
著名歌唱家克里木去世，他演唱的《掀起你的盖头来》脍炙人口。
Famous singer Kerim died, his singing "lift your head to come" won great acclaim.
中国驻俄罗斯使馆高度关注中国公民被遣返事。
The Chinese Embassy in Russia is highly concerned about the repatriation of Chinese citizens.
福建泉州酒店坍塌事故已致6人死亡，28人正在搜救。
The Quanzhou Hotel collapse in Fujian Province has killed six people and left 28 in search and rescue.
山东省检察机关依法决定对任城监狱疫情事件相关人员立案侦查。
Shandong Provincial Procuratorate decided to file a case against the personnel involved in the epidemic situation in Ren Cheng prison.
伊朗新增新冠肺炎确诊病例1076例，累计确诊5823例。
There were 1076 newly diagnosed cases of new crown pneumonia in Iran and 5,823 cases were diagnosed cumulatively.
中国科研团队：新冠病毒已突变，有2个亚型，传染力有差异。
Chinese research team: The new crown virus has mutated, has 2 subtypes, infectivity difference.
全球首例！香港确诊狗感染病毒：系新冠肺炎确诊患者的爱犬。
First case in the world! Confirmed Dog Infection Virus in Hong Kong: A Dog for Patients Confirmed with Newly Coronary Pneumonia.
孝感安陆一纪委干部感染新冠肺炎去世。
Filial piety An Lu a discipline committee cadre infects new crown pneumonia dies.
联合调查组公布黄某英事件调查结果：失职渎职导致的严重事件。
The Joint Investigation Team released the results of an investigation into the incident in the UK: serious incidents due to negligence.
澎湃新闻APP下载。
Pai news APP download.
热话题。
Hot topics.
一天。
One day.
三天。
Three days.
一周。
One week.
我旅居意大利17年,疫情下当地民众生活什么样,问我吧!。
I've been living in Italy for 17 years. Ask me what life is like for the local population.
疫情面前，你家亲戚让你操心了吗？。
Did your relatives worry you about the outbreak?
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
我致力于流行文化及性别研究,什么是耽美亚文化,问吧!。
I'm committed to pop culture and gender studies. What is the addictive subculture? Ask.
我是东京大学人文社会系访问学者苗壮,日本是如何研究汉学的,问我吧!。
I am Miao Zhuang, visiting scholar of Department of Humanities and Society, University of Tokyo.
我旅居意大利17年,疫情下当地民众生活什么样,问我吧!。
I've been living in Italy for 17 years. Ask me what life is like for the local population.
疫情面前，你家亲戚让你操心了吗？。
Did your relatives worry you about the outbreak?
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
我是韩国庆熙大学博士万延娇,疫情中的首尔什么样,问吧!。
I'm Dr. Wan Yanjiao of Kyeongxi University in Korea. What's Seoul like in the epidemic? Ask.
我是在日本新闻一线工作,新冠疫情中日本政界和民众态度如何,问我吧!。
I am working in the front line of Japanese journalism. What is the attitude of Japanese politics and people in the New Crown Epidemic? Ask me.
我旅居意大利17年,疫情下当地民众生活什么样,问我吧!。
I've been living in Italy for 17 years. Ask me what life is like for the local population.
我是在日本新闻一线工作,新冠疫情中日本政界和民众态度如何,问我吧!。
I am working in the front line of Japanese journalism. What is the attitude of Japanese politics and people in the New Crown Epidemic? Ask me.
疫情面前，你家亲戚让你操心了吗？。
Did your relatives worry you about the outbreak?
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
我是韩国庆熙大学博士万延娇,疫情中的首尔什么样,问吧!。
I'm Dr. Wan Yanjiao of Kyeongxi University in Korea. What's Seoul like in the epidemic? Ask.
热门推荐。
Hot recommendations.
教育部：网课不得强行要求中小学生每日打卡，上传学习视频。
Ministry of Education: The net class must not force the primary and secondary school students daily card, upload study video.
中央指导组：有1.2万余名支援湖北医务人员为90后00后。
Central guidance group: There are more than 12,000 medical staff supporting Hubei after 90 years.
中央指导组：湖北超三千名医护人员感染，大多非传染科医生。
Central guidance group: Hubei more than 3,000 medical personnel infected, most non-infectious doctors.
28年前南医大女生被杀案嫌犯被批准逮捕。
28 years ago, the murder of a female student was approved for arrest.
财政部：2月湖北国库仅有零星收入，将按周调度资金给湖北。
Ministry of Finance: Hubei treasury has only sporadic income in February, will dispatch funds to Hubei on a weekly basis.
var lbdHeight = $(".head_ad").height()+$(".head").height()+$(".main_rt").height()-260; //滑到体到顶部的高度。
var lbdLight = $(& quot; .head _ ad & quot;) .height () + $(& quot; .head & quot;) .height () + $(& quot; .main _ rt & quot;) .light (-260; / / sliding to top height.
var topHeight = parseInt($(window).scrollTop() + 1 + 70);  //浮动频道高度70。
var topLight = parseInt ($(window) .scrollTop (+ 1 + 70); / / floating channel height 70.
联系我们。
Contact us.
关于澎湃。
About the roar.
在澎湃工作。
Working in the roar.
联系我们。
Contact us.
版权声明。
Copyright statement.
隐私政策。
Privacy policy.
澎湃广告。
There was a roaring advertisement.
友情链接。
Links to friends.
澎湃新闻举报受理和处置办法。
Measures for handling and handling surging news reports.
严正声明。
Solemn declaration.
Copyright © 2014~2020 The Paper All rights reserved.上海东方报业有限公司 | 沪ICP证：沪B2-20170116 | 沪ICP备14003370号 | 互联网新闻信息服务许可证：31120170006。
Shanghai Oriental Daily News Ltd. & # 144; Shanghai ICP Certificate: Shanghai B2-20170116 & # 124; Shanghai ICP Readiness 14003370 & # 124; Internet News Information Service license: 31120170006.
沪公网安备 31010602000299号。
Shanghai Public Net 3101 602000299.
站长统计。
Station master statistics.
c={//监测配置。
c = {/ monitoring configuration.
UA:"UA-thepaper-000002", //客户项目编号,由系统生成。
UA: & quot; UA-theaper-000002 & quot;, / or customer project number, generated by the system.
URL:'//file.thepaper.cn/www/v3/js/iwt-min.js'//iwt.js的URL位置，请客户自行托管JS文件，只需修改此值。
URL::: / / file.thepaper.cn / www.v3 / js / iwt-min.js & apos; / / iwt.js URL location; and / or iwt.js, have its client manage a JS file by yourself, simply modify this value.
//多视频。
/ / Multi-Video.
