连载·黄冈日记②｜科室住满新冠肺炎患者，5位同事被感染_直击现场_澎湃新闻-The Paper。
Liu Zai Huang Gang's diary, full of patients with Newly Coronet Pneumonia, 5 colleagues were infected with _ hit the scene _ surging news - The Paper.
报料。
News feed.
注册。
Registration.
登录。
Login.
下载APP。
Download APP.
精选。
Selected.
抗疫。
Anti-epidemic.
抗疫防控新型冠状病毒肺炎。
Anti-epidemic control of new coronavirus pneumonia.
。
.
视频。
Video.
上直播。
Live broadcast.
拉近你与现场距离。
Bring you closer to the scene.
七环视频。
Seven-ring video.
为了更美好的生活。
For a better life.
温度计。
Thermometers.
深度记录社会冷暖。
Depth of record society warm and cold.
一级视场。
Level 1 field of view.
及时现场，洞察财经事件。
On-site, insight into financial issues.
World湃。
World surging.
看见新闻全球化。
See the globalization of information.
湃客科技。
Pai guest technology.
聚焦前沿，展现新兴企业。
Focus on the frontier and showcase emerging businesses.
纪录湃。
The record runs high.
纪录澎湃中国。
China is on record.
围观。
Look around.
以影像介入社会生活。
Imaging into social life.
@所有人。
@ All.
所有人在看。
Everyone's watching.
大都会。
Metropolis.
看上海 最都会。
It's the best city in Shanghai.
追光灯。
Searchlight.
让你看到文艺生活。
Let you see the literary life.
运动装。
Sportswear.
直观运动，可以装不要伪装。
Intuitive movement, can be installed without camouflage.
健寻记。
Health care.
追寻活到一百岁的秘诀。
The secret to living to be a hundred years old.
AI播报。
AI announces.
互联网新闻+：AI播报。
Internet news +: AI broadcasts.
眼界。
Eye-catching.
每日一条视频，与新闻同步。
One video per day, synced with the news.
时事。
Current affairs.
中国政库洞悉中国动向的时政解读。
China's treasurer has insight into the current state of affairs in China.
中南海权威细致的领导人报道。
Zhongnanhai authority meticulous leader report.
舆论场倾听复杂世界的弦外之音。
Opinion circles listen to the implications of the complex world.
打虎记中国反腐报道第一平台。
Tiger Kit China Anti-Corruption Report First Platform.
人事风向快速专业的人事信息集合地。
Personnel wind speed and professional collection of personnel information.
法治中国司改风向，法治观察。
Rule of Law China Division wind direction, rule of law observation.
一号专案司法个案，法治调查。
Ad hoc Judicial Case No. 1, Rule of Law Investigations.
港台来信感觉不一样的港台报道。
RTHK's letter feels different from RTHK's report.
长三角政商解读区域政情与财富故事。
The Yangtze River Delta political and economic interpretation of regional political and wealth story.
直击现场第一现场，文图视频直播。
Click on the scene of the first scene, text video live.
公益湃记录公益发展，共建责任生态。
Public welfare record of public welfare development, jointly build ecological responsibility.
。
.
暖闻人间真善美，社会正能量。
Hear the world is good and beautiful, society is positive energy.
。
.
澎湃质量报告打假除劣，破套防坑——专注消费者权益保护。
Pai Pai quality report to fight fraud and shoddy, broken pit - focus on consumer rights and interests protection.
绿政公署环境与公共健康调查。
Environmental and Public Health Survey of the Green Administration.
澎湃国际All News In。
All News In, Peng Pai.
外交学人New World Order。
Diplomat New World Order.
澎湃防务Cyclopedia for military。
Cyclopedia for military defence.
唐人街海外利益，华人故事。
Overseas Interests in Chinatown, Chinese Stories.
澎湃人物提供最有态度的人物报道。
The roaring characters provide the most critical coverage of the characters.
浦江头条上海每天最重要的事件。
The most important events of the day in Shanghai.
教育家最先进的教育理念在此碰撞。
Educators' most advanced educational ideas collide here.
全景现场360度感识全景现场。
Panoramic scene 360-degree panorama scene.
美数课数字是骨骼，设计是灵魂。
Numbers are bones; design is the soul.
快看快看，图片会说话。
Look quick. Pictures talk.
财经。
Finance.
10%公司派发上市公司变革红利。
10 per cent distribute change dividends to listed companies.
能见度能源行业最具穿透力的思想。
Visibility The most penetrating thinking in the energy industry.
地产界地产界所有你想知道的事儿。
Real estate Everything you want to know.
财经上下游跨界找寻市场常识。
Cross-boundary market common sense.
金改实验室金融创新灵感集散地。
Financial innovation center of Jinchang Lab.
牛市点线面简单专业时尚的财富平台。
Bull market simple professional fashion wealth platform.
科技湃让我们走近科学。
Technology has brought us closer to science.
澎湃商学院品牌课外书，生活经济学。
Peng Pai Business School Brand Extracurricular Books, Life Economics.
自贸区连线自贸区第一信息和服务平台。
Free Trade Area line free trade area first information and service platform.
进博会在线走进中国国际进口博览会。
Into the Fair online into China International Import Expo.
澎湃号。
'cried the roar.
湃客。
The roar.
政务。
Government affairs.
媒体。
The media.
思想。
Ideas.
社论澎湃的立场。
The editorial was strong.
澎湃评论在这里知道更多。
Pai Pai comments know more here.
思想湃明亮的对话，澎湃的思想。
Thoughts of bright dialogue, surging thoughts.
上海书评全球百位华文写作名家撰稿。
The Shanghai Book Review is written by 100 leading Chinese writers.
思想市场有竞争的思想讲底蕴的政治。
The thought market has the competitive thought to speak the underlying politics.
私家历史发现历史之美。
Private history finds the beauty of history.
翻书党微时代的首选书单。
Turn over the book party microage first choice book list.
艺术评论独立态度解析中外艺术热点。
Artistic Comment Independent Attitude Analyzes the Hot Spots of Chinese and Foreign Art.
古代艺术巡礼人类的艺术遗产。
Ancient Art Parades the artistic heritage of mankind.
文化课关注人文景观投身人类文明。
Cultural courses focus on humanistic landscape into human civilization.
逝者记录逝者为世界留下的财富。
The dead record the wealth left to the world by the dead.
澎湃研究所为中国城市问题提供澎湃方案。
The Peng Pai Institute offers a robust programme on urban issues in China.
。
.
市政厅中国城市问题专家。
City Hall of China experts on urban issues.
城市漫步人塑造地方，地方也塑造人。
Urban strollers shape places, and places shape people.
智库报告展示全球最具价值的智库研究成果。
The think tank report showcases the world's most valuable think tank research.
专栏名家专家，上天入地。
An expert columnist.
异次元打破次元壁。
Heterogeneous element breaks the secondary wall.
生活。
Life.
有戏陪你过一种审美的生活。
Have a play to accompany you to live an aesthetic life.
文艺范一线文艺生活。
Literary and artistic life.
身体探索身体的奥秘。
The body explores the secrets of the body.
私·奔跑步是一种态度。
Personal running is an attitude.
运动家看体育如何改变世界。
Athletes see how sport can change the world.
私家地理旅途的旨趣、技艺以及乡愁。
The Purport, Skill, and Nostalgia of the Private Geographic Journey.
非常品用态度引领时尚。
A very good attitude leads to fashion.
楼市不一样的楼市观察。
Different property market observation.
生活方式更好生活，我们有一些意见。
We have some suggestions for a better way of life.
澎湃联播半个段子兽半个评论猿。
Half a section of the beast commented on apes.
视界视界观，观世界。
Look at the world, look at the world.
亲子学堂理解孩子，认知自己。
Parents and children learn to understand their children, know themselves.
赢家直击中国体育产业生存现状。
Winners strike at the survival of China's sports industry.
汽车圈专注汽车产经报道。
Auto industry focus on the auto industry report.
问吧。
'he asked.
订阅。
Subscriptions.
把你最喜欢的栏目添加到这里来哦。
Add your favorite column here.
马上登录。
Sign in now.
setMsgMark(); //login异步之后调用位置修改。
Call location modification after setMsgMark; / / login asynchronous.
// 顶部广告自适应。
/ / Top Advertising Adaptability.
// xml返回了creativeHeight。
/ / xml returned creativeLight.
//图片拓展图片时。
/ / Photo when expanding the picture.
if(typeof(xml.find("Cexpansion")[0])!="undefined"){   //是否需要展开。
If (typeof (xml. find; Cempansion & quot;) & # 91; 0 & # 93;)! = & quot; underdefined & quot;) {/ / whether it needs to be carried out.
var cexpansion = xml.find("Cexpansion")[0].textContent.trim();//展开时。
var text = xml. find (& quot; Cempansion & quot;) & # 91; 0 & # 93; .text Content.
//图片拓展视频时   。
/ / Photo when expanding the video.
//视频拓展视频时。
/ / Video when expanding the video.
//收起广告。
/ / Put the ad away.
//将 http://或者https:// 转为//。
/ / Conversion from http: / / https: / / to /.
首页。
Home page.
> 直击现场。
Running straight to the scene.
连载·黄冈日记②｜科室住满新冠肺炎患者，5位同事被感染。
Liu Zai Huang Gang's diary, full of patients with Newly crowned Pneumonia, 5 colleagues were infected.
特邀作者 杨梅 程定琴 郝诗光 梦轩 澎湃新闻记者 方岸 杜心羽 吴佳颖 整理。
Invited author Yang Mei-ding Qin Shi Guang Mengxuan Peng Pai journalist Fang Xin Yu Wu Jia Ying tidy.
2020-03-07 07:43 来源：澎湃新闻。
2020-03-07 07: 43 Source: news surging.
字号。
The font size.
超大。
Extremely large.
大。
Big.
标准。
Standards.
小。
Small.
【专题】防控新冠肺炎。
Topic: Prevention and control of new crown pneumonia.
【专题】专题｜英雄的城市 英雄的人民。
less than one + less than + Subject + be + V The heroic people of the city.
连载·黄冈日记①｜“穿防护服戴口罩和护目镜”的人突然来了。
The man in protective clothing, masks, and goggles suddenly appeared.
【编者按】新冠病毒给湖北乃至全国带来一场危机，黄冈是这场疫情的重灾区之一。
The new crown virus brings a crisis to Hubei and even to the whole country. Huanggang is one of the hardest hit areas of the epidemic.
在这场战役中，黄冈人经历了旁观-卷入-创伤-斗争-反思的过程。
In this battle, the Huanggang people experienced the process of watching-involved-traumatizing-fighting-introspection.
我们用亲历者日记连载的形式，试图纵深还原疫情侵袭下的黄冈这60天。
We tried to restore Huanggang to 60 days under the attack of the epidemic in the form of a diary series of relatives.
1月9日，官方宣布“不明原因肺炎”病原体初步判定为新型冠状病毒。
January 9, the official "unknown causes of pneumonia" pathogen was initially identified as a new coronavirus.
11日，武汉市卫健委通报，截至前一天初步诊断新冠肺炎41例，其中已出院2例、重症7例、死亡1例，密切接触者739人，其中医务人员419人。
As of the previous day, 41 cases of new crown pneumonia had been diagnosed, including 2 cases of discharge, 7 cases of severe illness and 1 case of death, with 739 people in close contact, 419 of whom were medical staff.
湖北省“两会”于1月11日至17日召开。
The "NPC and CPPCC" held in Hubei Province took place from January 11 to 17.
（斜体字内容为编者所加，下同。
(Text in italics refers to additions by editors, same as below).
）【杨梅：黄冈市中心医院呼吸内科护士】1月9日科室的主任、医生已经在我们的微信群里通告，医院神经二内科有两位医护人员出现肺部感染，要求我们大家做好防护，不可大意。
Yang Mei: The director of the department of respiratory medicine at Huanggang Central Hospital and the doctor have informed us in our letter group that two medical personnel in the Department of Neurology of the hospital have lung infection.
我们也开始向医院申请领用N95口罩及防护服一类的防护用品。
We have also started to apply to hospitals for protective equipment such as N95 masks and protective clothing.
10日，神经二内科护士董春风入住我科31床。
On the 10th, Neurology II Nurse Dong Chunfeng checked into 31 beds of our department.
医院接到卫健委通知，开始统计新冠肺炎的信息，开始每天上报感染情况，同时科室将非新冠肺炎的患者开出院单，要求所有的病人及家属佩戴一次性外科口罩。
The hospital was informed by the CHP to start counting the information of pneumonia and to report the infection on a daily basis. At the same time, the department issued a list of patients with non-Newly Crowded Pneumonia and required all patients and their families to wear disposable surgical masks.
12日，普通大众还没有意识到这个疾病的严重性及危害性，有一位刚入科的病人自觉症状比较轻，但因为CT提示肺上情况严重，医生给她下了病危通知，竟然一个电话投诉到黄冈市卫健委，控诉医生吓唬她。
12, the general public is not aware of the severity and harm of the disease, a newly admitted patient conscious of mild symptoms, but because CT signs of serious lung conditions, the doctor gave her a critical notice of illness, even a call to the Huanggang City Health Commission, complained that the doctor threatened her.
病人及家属的情绪都很严重，并且要求转诊武汉。
The patients and their families were in a bad mood and asked to be referred to Wuhan.
不过，武汉的疫情严重，卫健委没有同意转诊。
However, Wuhan serious epidemic, Weijian health committee did not agree to a referral.
科室所有的医护人员除了要治疗抢救护理病人，还要小心地照顾病人的心理。
All the medical staff in the department should not only treat and care for the patients, but also take care of their psychology carefully.
黄冈的医疗机构已收治了不少新冠肺炎患者，也有医护人员被感染。
The hospital in Huanggang has treated many patients with Newly Coronary Pneumonia, and some medical staff have been infected.
社会上不知情的市民还在参加一些群体性活动。
Uninformed members of the public also participate in mass events.
【郝诗光：江岸名都小区综合党支部书记，业委会副主任】1月12日上午在胜利新街举办了本年度最后一场爱心公益集市，500多人参加了活动。
Hao Shi-guang: The Secretary of the Comprehensive Party Branch of the Riverbank Famous District and Deputy Director of the Industry Committee held the final charity fair of the year in Shengxin Street on January 12, in which more than 500 people took part.
一个小伙儿从深圳回来，感觉到黄州是个有爱的城市，现场捐了500块钱，还决定明年不出去打工了，就留在黄州发展。
A young man came back from Shenzhen and felt that Huangzhou was a city of love. He donated 500 yuan and decided to stay in Huangzhou next year.
1月12日，胜利新街举办的爱心公益集市，500多人参加碰到了孩子的班主任路过，提前剧透了孩子的考试成绩。
On January 12, more than 500 people attended a charity fair in Shengxin Street. The head teacher of the school who had met the children passed by and read their test results well in advance.
孩子今年进步极大，我相当的开心。
The child has made great progress this year and I am quite happy.
孩子领了成绩单后，自己从学校走到了活动现场跟我汇合。
The child took the report card and went from school to meet me at the event.
他还没有跟我汇报我就立即承诺他：今天吃喝，都是岔（注：方言，“尽兴”的意思）的。
I promised him at once, before he had told me, that there was something wrong with eating and drinking today.
前几天还在朋友圈里疯传的武汉发生不明原因的肺炎好像再也没有声音了，大街上人头攒动，大家都在忙着喜迎新年。
A few days ago in the circle of friends in Wuhan crazy pneumonia do not seem to have any more voice, the streets crowded, everyone is busy to welcome the New Year.
估计忘了这一茬了吧。
I guess I forgot about this.
胜利南村是个好地方，适合明年打造成主题公益集市的常设主办点。
Sheng Nam Village is a good place to set up a permanent host for the theme fair next year.
按场地面积看，一场活动容下千人左右没有问题。
According to the area of the site, there is no problem with a thousand people in an activity.
不过人多了也很麻烦，要向城管、公安机关提前报备，避免发生群体性事件和公共安全事故。
However, a large number of people are also troublesome, to the city management, public security organs ahead of time to report, to avoid mass incidents and public safety accidents.
年前再搞一场活动，我也开始休息了。
I had another activity a few years ago, and I began to have a rest.
【梦轩：已愈新冠肺炎患者】1月12日至13日 己亥猪年的年末，忙碌的一年总算可以告一段落，我也可以稍微轻闲下来。
Mengxuan: The Year of the Pig ends January 12-13, the end of the Year of the Pig, and I can relax a little.
原本想一边居家休息，一边不慌不忙地筹备过年。
Originally wanted to rest at home, while not leisurely prepared for the New Year.
不料，一场不期而至的感冒打乱了我的计划。
Unexpectedly, an unexpected cold upset my plans.
1月12日，前一天我有点轻微感冒症状，流鼻涕，轻微头疼。
On January 12, I had a slight cold, a runny nose and a slight headache the day before.
有点担心会不会是流感，我想还是去医院检查下。
A little worried about the flu, I think I'll go to the hospital for a check-up.
吃过早饭，开车去黄冈市一家以前常去的医院。
After breakfast, I drove to a former hospital in Huanggang.
医院的门诊大厅里人非常多，挂号、缴费、拿药的窗口，都排着三四十人的长长队伍。
The out-patient hall of the hospital was crowded with long lines of thirty or forty, registered, paid, and medicated windows.
看来，冬春季节患感冒的人多。
It seems that the winter and spring cold more people.
我也跟着排队，挂号缴费窗口就排了半个小时。
I stood in line, too, for half an hour at the registered bill window.
看病的人前后相接，咳嗽声也在门诊大厅里此起彼伏。
The patients' coughs followed each other back and forth in the outpatient hall.
除了我之外，整个大厅没有一个人戴口罩，负责挂号和收费的医生从小窗口里露出脸问话，他们也没有口罩。
No one in the hall was wearing a mask except me, and the doctors who registered and paid for them put questions through their little windows, and they did not have masks.
做了CT、抽血检查后，医生排除了流感，认为就是普通感冒，开了四天的打吊针的药水。
After CT, blood tests, doctors ruled out the flu, that is, the common cold, opened a four-day potion.
13日，我到医院接受输液。
On the 13th, I went to the hospital for an infusion.
输液的病室里也是坐满了挂吊针、或等候打针的病人。
The infusion room was also filled with patients with hanging needles or waiting for injections.
跟前几天没区别的是，仍然没人戴口罩。
What made no difference in the last few days was that no one was wearing a mask.
输液第二天，咳嗽没有了，其他感冒症状没有消失。
The next day, the cough did not, the other cold symptoms did not disappear.
第三天又发烧起来，我也没当回事，心想即便打针吃药，感冒也要一周左右才能好，干脆在家休息睡觉。
The third day fever, I did not take seriously, even if the injection to take medicine, cold can take a week or so, simply rest at home to sleep.
感冒这几天里，我拒绝参加几个朋友或合作伙伴的公司年终活动，也拒绝了所有朋友的聚餐。
During the cold days, I refused to join several friends or partners' company year-end activities, and refused to have dinner with all my friends.
在家睡了两天，还是不见好转。
I slept at home for two days, but I couldn't get better.
这几天，发烧始终没退，一度还高烧到43摄氏度。
Over the past few days, the fever has not receded, once high fever to 43 degrees Celsius.
我有点紧张了。
I'm a little nervous.
【程定琴：黄冈市中心医院呼吸内科护士】1月13日截至今天，我们科室已经住满了新型冠状病毒肺炎的患者。
Cheng Ding-qin: Department of Respiratory Medicine Nurse at Huanggang Central Hospital January 13 to date, our department has been full of patients with the new coronavirus pneumonia.
科室在接到上级通知和要求后，立即和病房其他病种，诸如慢阻肺、支气管炎、肺部感染等普通常见呼吸系统疾病的患者及时做工作，要求病情尚轻的患者带口服药出院回家疗养，稍重的都转至别的医院继续治疗。
Upon receiving notification and request from their superiors, the department promptly worked with patients with other common respiratory diseases, such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, bronchitis and pulmonary infection. The patients with mild cases were asked to take oral medicine and leave the hospital for recuperation. Some of them were referred to other hospitals for further treatment.
此刻，黄冈市中心医院呼吸内科已然成为黄冈市第一个新冠肺炎的隔离收治点，腾出的病房专门收治新冠肺炎的患者。
At the moment, the Department of Respiratory Medicine at Huanggang Central Hospital has become Huanggang's first isolation unit for pneumonia, freeing up wards for patients suffering from Newcomial Pneumonia.
才几天时间，病人迅速收满，患者数量增加之快完全超乎我们想象。
In just a few days, the patient quickly filled up and the number of patients grew faster than we thought.
非常不幸地，科室里与我们一起战斗的5位同事相继被感染，3位护士、2位医生。
It is very unfortunate that five of our colleagues in the department who fought with us were infected, three nurses and two doctors.
这让我们非常难以接受。
This makes it very difficult for us to accept.
我们心里其实都已经很清楚，这种病毒它能够人传人。
We all know in our hearts that this virus can be passed from person to person.
可是网上还是在时不时发布一些新型冠状病毒性肺炎相关信息，一些机构和专家还简单地在说“可防可控”。
However, the Internet is still occasionally released some new coronavirus pneumonia-related information, some institutions and experts are simply saying that "preventable controllable."
这才是最可怕的。
That's the worst part.
看着往日里跟我们一起上班、有说有笑的同事，此刻正毫无精神躺在病床上吸氧、输液；看着那些患者短短几天病情变化不定；看着那些照顾患者的家属也都一个一个感染住进来……我们除了痛心还有担忧。
Watching our former co-workers, talking and laughing, lying in their beds breathless with oxygen and transfusion, watching patients change in a matter of days, watching the families of those taking care of their patients infect one by one... We are sad and worried.
病毒不可怕，可是一种新型的病毒就很可怕了，因为我们对它一无所知，不知道它如何致病，致病后病情会怎样发展，有没有什么对症药，会不会致命。
The virus is not terrible, but a new kind of virus is terrible because we know nothing about it, how it gets sick, how it develops after it, whether there are right medicines and whether it can be fatal.
想到这些心里害怕极了。
It scares me to think of it.
但是让我特别感动的是，哪怕是到了这一刻，身边已经有人倒下了，在没有更好防护用品的情况下，我们科室没有一个人退缩。
But I was particularly moved by the fact that, even at this moment, someone had fallen, and no one in our department had flinched in the absence of better supplies.
在科室人员严重不足，患者不断增多的高强度负荷下，大家都服从安排，每天穿梭在病房之间，为每一个患者提供服务。
In the department is seriously understaffed, the patient is increasing the high-intensity load, everybody obeys the arrangement, shuttles daily between the wards, provides the service for each patient.
科室王昌峰主任经常去各个县市开会到深更半夜，又赶来科室处理危重患者，还要整理相关信息资料；我们副主任黄虎翔因为奔赴各个医院会诊被感染住院，躺病床上也不忘隔空阅片会诊；我们最亲爱的彭金娥护士长因为科室人员不足，已经连续两个星期没休息，在科室加班加点；我们科室其他人员也是任劳任怨超负荷工作。
Our deputy director, Huang Huxiang, came to various hospitals for consultations and consultations on the hospital bed. Our dear Master Peng Kin-ngo had not rested for two weeks and was working overtime in the department.
我知道其实大家心里都怕，试问有谁会不怕死呢，但是大家都没有放弃，没有退缩，因为这是我们的职责，我们肩负的使命！黄冈市中心医院呼吸内科的医护人员举着“加油”纸条给自己打气【杨梅：黄冈市中心医院呼吸内科护士】1月15日科室张红燕老师做了CT后发现两肺都有磨玻璃影，当即晚上就安排住了进来。
I know everyone is afraid of death, but everyone did not give up, do not shrink, because it is our duty, our mission! Huanggang City Central Hospital Respiratory Medicine staff holding up the "refueling" notes [Yang Mei: Huanggang City Central Hospital Respiratory Nurse] January 15 Department of the Department of Health Zhang Hongyan after a CT scan found that both lungs have grinding glass shadow, immediately arranged to live in the evening.
据她自己回忆，之前一个星期她在上主班，住在走廊的刘某过来询问的时候没有佩戴口罩对着她咳了两下，只是当时她和病人都没有意识到会有传染，随后她咳了一个星期，自己在家里吃了一个星期的药，直到做了CT才知道感染了新冠肺炎。
Liu, who had been on the main shift the week before, had coughed twice without wearing a mask when she and her patient were not aware of the infection, she coughed for a week, then took a week's medication at home and didn't know until CT that she had contracted pneumonia.
晚上，张玉娇医生查看自己的CT时发现自己也有感染，此前她自己没有任何症状，只感到全身酸痛，还以为是总在全院跑会诊累到的原因。
In the evening, Dr. Zhang found herself infected when he looked at her CT. Before that, she had no symptoms of her own.
作为两个幼子的母亲，丈夫也是医院的医生，她感染以后，心理的负担比身体的病痛更重。
As the mother of two young children, the husband is also a hospital doctor, she became infected, the psychological burden than physical pain.
16日，科室的床位都已经安排满了，经过医院协调，将楼下的内分泌科空出来安排新冠肺炎的病人。
On the 16th, all the beds in the department have been filled. After coordination with the hospital, the endocrine section downstairs will be vacated to arrange for patients with pneumonia.
张医生也住在了内分泌科的病房。
Dr. Zhang is also in the endocrinology ward.
每天大家都在学习新冠肺炎的相关知识，诊治方案、防护措施、院感隔离……科室已经封闭，不能随意接收病人，家属也大部分清退出病房，科室门口安排保安值守，我们戴上了N95，但还是没有防护服。
Every day we are learning about the new crown pneumonia, diagnosis and treatment plan, protective measures, hospital isolation... sections have been closed, can not accept patients at will, most of the family members have been removed from the ward, security guard at the door of the department, we wear N95, but no protective clothing.
【未完待续】(本文来自澎湃新闻，更多原创资讯请下载“澎湃新闻”APP)。
(This article is from Pai Pai News. For more original information, please download the "Peng Pai News" APP).
责任编辑：储静伟校对：张亮亮。
Responsibility editor: Jing Wei storage proofread: Zhang Liang Liang.
澎湃新闻报料：4009-20-4009  澎湃新闻，未经授权不得转载。
Pai news: 4009-20-4009 surging news, not allowed to reproduce without authorization.
关键词 >> 抗疫日记,黄冈,抗疫,日记。
Key words & gt; & gt; plague diary, Huanggang, plague, diary.
收藏。
Collection.
跟踪: 抗疫日记。
Tracking: Anti-epidemic diary.
相关推荐。
Relevant recommendations.
抗疫日记丨我们是ECMO的守护者。
The Journal of Disease Control is our guardian.
抗疫日记 | 雷神山的三重门。
The Triple Door at Rai Shenshan.
图集。
Atlas.
全民战疫｜武汉新冠肺炎康复医生献血救人。
universal plague, wuhan new crown pneumonia convalescent doctor donates blood to save lives.
评论（69）。
Comment (69).
热新闻。
Hot news.
一天。
One day.
三天。
Three days.
一周。
One week.
福建泉州酒店坍塌事故已致6人死亡，28人正在搜救。
The Quanzhou Hotel collapse in Fujian Province has killed six people and left 28 in search and rescue.
泉州坍塌酒店房主已被警方控制，事故系在改装作业时发生。
The owner of Quanzhou's collapsed hotel was under police control and the accident occurred during a retrofit operation.
乘公交致13人感染，研究：新冠在密闭空调车厢可传4.5米。
Public transport infects 13 people, study: The new crown in a closed air-conditioned compartment can be transmitted 4.5 meters.
全球战疫丨欧洲疫情蔓延，德国拦截瑞士24万只口罩。
Germany intercepts 240,000 Swiss face masks as the global epidemic spreads into Europe.
一图了解新冠肺炎世界疫情形势：中国境外确诊病例超2万。
Picture shows the world epidemic situation of New Crown Pneumonia: more than 20, 000 confirmed cases outside China.
福建泉州酒店坍塌事故已致10人死亡，正在搜救的还有23人。
A hotel collapse in Quanzhou, Fujian, has killed 10 people, with 23 others in search and rescue.
新研究：新冠患者病毒存在快速进化风险，需更多序列追踪进化。
NEW STUDY: Viruses in patients with the new crown present a risk of rapid evolution, requiring more sequences to track evolution.
中国力量！张伟丽击败乔安娜，卫冕UFC女子草量级金腰带。
Chinese power! Zhang Weili beat Joanna, defend the UFC women's grass weight gold belt.
这个H5，告诉你中国的女性可以有多好、有多强！。
This H5 tells you how good and strong Chinese women can be!
专访丨沈奕斐谈妇女节：女性依旧需要全方面发出声音的机会。
Interviews into Women's Day: Women still need a full voice
福建泉州酒店坍塌事故已致6人死亡，28人正在搜救。
The Quanzhou Hotel collapse in Fujian Province has killed six people and left 28 in search and rescue.
伊朗新增新冠肺炎确诊病例1076例，累计确诊5823例。
There were 1076 newly diagnosed cases of new crown pneumonia in Iran and 5,823 cases were diagnosed cumulatively.
孝感安陆一纪委干部感染新冠肺炎去世。
Filial piety An Lu a discipline committee cadre infects new crown pneumonia dies.
马上评丨为上海守好门，也为全国守好门。
It is a good choice for Shanghai and for the whole country.
55岁中建集团原董事长官庆病逝，去年9月卸任。
Guanqing, 55, the group's former chairman, died and left office last September.
云南一种新蝙蝠冠状病毒力证新冠起源于自然！提示重组线索。
A new strain of coronavirus in Yunnan Province originated from nature!
20人“一线医务人员抗疫巾帼英雄谱”名单公布，有两人已逝。
Two of the 20 people whose names appear on the first-line medical personnel's heroic spectrum have died.
泉州坍塌酒店房主已被警方控制，事故系在改装作业时发生。
The owner of Quanzhou's collapsed hotel was under police control and the accident occurred during a retrofit operation.
“梅姨”案中被拐15年的少年找到了，其父母已赴广州将认亲。
"Aunt May" case was abducted for 15 years to find the young people, their parents have gone to Guangzhou to adopt.
乘公交致13人感染，研究：新冠在密闭空调车厢可传4.5米。
Public transport infects 13 people, study: The new crown in a closed air-conditioned compartment can be transmitted 4.5 meters.
中央和国家机关在广大党员中积极开展自愿捐款。
The central and state organs actively solicit voluntary contributions from all Party members.
著名歌唱家克里木去世，他演唱的《掀起你的盖头来》脍炙人口。
Famous singer Kerim died, his singing "lift your head to come" won great acclaim.
中国驻俄罗斯使馆高度关注中国公民被遣返事。
The Chinese Embassy in Russia is highly concerned about the repatriation of Chinese citizens.
福建泉州酒店坍塌事故已致6人死亡，28人正在搜救。
The Quanzhou Hotel collapse in Fujian Province has killed six people and left 28 in search and rescue.
山东省检察机关依法决定对任城监狱疫情事件相关人员立案侦查。
Shandong Provincial Procuratorate decided to file a case against the personnel involved in the epidemic situation in Ren Cheng prison.
伊朗新增新冠肺炎确诊病例1076例，累计确诊5823例。
There were 1076 newly diagnosed cases of new crown pneumonia in Iran and 5,823 cases were diagnosed cumulatively.
中国科研团队：新冠病毒已突变，有2个亚型，传染力有差异。
Chinese research team: The new crown virus has mutated, has 2 subtypes, infectivity difference.
全球首例！香港确诊狗感染病毒：系新冠肺炎确诊患者的爱犬。
First case in the world! Confirmed Dog Infection Virus in Hong Kong: A Dog for Patients Confirmed with Newly Coronary Pneumonia.
孝感安陆一纪委干部感染新冠肺炎去世。
Filial piety An Lu a discipline committee cadre infects new crown pneumonia dies.
联合调查组公布黄某英事件调查结果：失职渎职导致的严重事件。
The Joint Investigation Team released the results of an investigation into the incident in the UK: serious incidents due to negligence.
澎湃新闻APP下载。
Pai news APP download.
热话题。
Hot topics.
一天。
One day.
三天。
Three days.
一周。
One week.
我旅居意大利17年,疫情下当地民众生活什么样,问我吧!。
I've been living in Italy for 17 years. Ask me what life is like for the local population.
疫情面前，你家亲戚让你操心了吗？。
Did your relatives worry you about the outbreak?
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
我致力于流行文化及性别研究,什么是耽美亚文化,问吧!。
I'm committed to pop culture and gender studies. What is the addictive subculture? Ask.
我是东京大学人文社会系访问学者苗壮,日本是如何研究汉学的,问我吧!。
I am Miao Zhuang, visiting scholar of Department of Humanities and Society, University of Tokyo.
我旅居意大利17年,疫情下当地民众生活什么样,问我吧!。
I've been living in Italy for 17 years. Ask me what life is like for the local population.
疫情面前，你家亲戚让你操心了吗？。
Did your relatives worry you about the outbreak?
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
我是韩国庆熙大学博士万延娇,疫情中的首尔什么样,问吧!。
I'm Dr. Wan Yanjiao of Kyeongxi University in Korea. What's Seoul like in the epidemic? Ask.
我是在日本新闻一线工作,新冠疫情中日本政界和民众态度如何,问我吧!。
I am working in the front line of Japanese journalism. What is the attitude of Japanese politics and people in the New Crown Epidemic? Ask me.
我旅居意大利17年,疫情下当地民众生活什么样,问我吧!。
I've been living in Italy for 17 years. Ask me what life is like for the local population.
我是在日本新闻一线工作,新冠疫情中日本政界和民众态度如何,问我吧!。
I am working in the front line of Japanese journalism. What is the attitude of Japanese politics and people in the New Crown Epidemic? Ask me.
疫情面前，你家亲戚让你操心了吗？。
Did your relatives worry you about the outbreak?
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
我是韩国庆熙大学博士万延娇,疫情中的首尔什么样,问吧!。
I'm Dr. Wan Yanjiao of Kyeongxi University in Korea. What's Seoul like in the epidemic? Ask.
热门推荐。
Hot recommendations.
教育部：网课不得强行要求中小学生每日打卡，上传学习视频。
Ministry of Education: The net class must not force the primary and secondary school students daily card, upload study video.
中央指导组：有1.2万余名支援湖北医务人员为90后00后。
Central guidance group: There are more than 12,000 medical staff supporting Hubei after 90 years.
中央指导组：湖北超三千名医护人员感染，大多非传染科医生。
Central guidance group: Hubei more than 3,000 medical personnel infected, most non-infectious doctors.
28年前南医大女生被杀案嫌犯被批准逮捕。
28 years ago, the murder of a female student was approved for arrest.
财政部：2月湖北国库仅有零星收入，将按周调度资金给湖北。
Ministry of Finance: Hubei treasury has only sporadic income in February, will dispatch funds to Hubei on a weekly basis.
var lbdHeight = $(".head_ad").height()+$(".head").height()+$(".main_rt").height()-260; //滑到体到顶部的高度。
var lbdLight = $(& quot; .head _ ad & quot;) .height () + $(& quot; .head & quot;) .height () + $(& quot; .main _ rt & quot;) .light (-260; / / sliding to top height.
var topHeight = parseInt($(window).scrollTop() + 1 + 70);  //浮动频道高度70。
var topLight = parseInt ($(window) .scrollTop (+ 1 + 70); / / floating channel height 70.
联系我们。
Contact us.
关于澎湃。
About the roar.
在澎湃工作。
Working in the roar.
联系我们。
Contact us.
版权声明。
Copyright statement.
隐私政策。
Privacy policy.
澎湃广告。
There was a roaring advertisement.
友情链接。
Links to friends.
澎湃新闻举报受理和处置办法。
Measures for handling and handling surging news reports.
严正声明。
Solemn declaration.
Copyright © 2014~2020 The Paper All rights reserved.上海东方报业有限公司 | 沪ICP证：沪B2-20170116 | 沪ICP备14003370号 | 互联网新闻信息服务许可证：31120170006。
Shanghai Oriental Daily News Ltd. & # 144; Shanghai ICP Certificate: Shanghai B2-20170116 & # 124; Shanghai ICP Readiness 14003370 & # 124; Internet News Information Service license: 31120170006.
沪公网安备 31010602000299号。
Shanghai Public Net 3101 602000299.
站长统计。
Station master statistics.
c={//监测配置。
c = {/ monitoring configuration.
UA:"UA-thepaper-000002", //客户项目编号,由系统生成。
UA: & quot; UA-theaper-000002 & quot;, / or customer project number, generated by the system.
URL:'//file.thepaper.cn/www/v3/js/iwt-min.js'//iwt.js的URL位置，请客户自行托管JS文件，只需修改此值。
URL::: / / file.thepaper.cn / www.v3 / js / iwt-min.js & apos; / / iwt.js URL location; and / or iwt.js, have its client manage a JS file by yourself, simply modify this value.
//多视频。
/ / Multi-Video.
