中小企业现金流告急，停工裁员待扶持。
Small and medium-sized enterprises cash flow crisis, layoffs pending support.
张颖馨 张威。
Zhang Yingxin Zhang Wei.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
疫情蔓延令本就身处经济逆周期的中小企业雪上加霜，尽管驰援举措已开始出台，但他们企盼更大规模的政策扶持，比如减费降税图/IC文 |《财经》记者 张颖馨 张威编辑 | 袁满“坐了一天，小鸟飞过10只，行人8人，车辆30辆，未发现可疑情况。
The spread of the epidemic has worsened the situation for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are already experiencing adverse economic cycles. Although support initiatives have begun, they are looking forward to larger-scale policy support, such as tax cuts / IC & # 44; and Caijing reporter Zhang Yingxin Zhang Wei.
”吴雨透过民宿内的落地窗，打量着周遭一切。
"Wu Yu looked around him through the sleeping windows.
受新型冠状病毒肺炎（下称“新型肺炎”）疫情影响，从1月20日至今，她在重庆经营的5间民宿仅入住了一间，且入住时间只有两天。
Affected by the outbreak of the new coronavirus pneumonia ("new coronavirus pneumonia"), the five residential homes she runs in Chongqing have been checked in for only two days from January 20.
若这样的情况持续至3月底，吴雨近两年的投入将付诸东流：前期的装修成本、日常的房屋维护费、已缴纳的房租、推广平台的接入费……原计划在今年春节期间卯着劲来个“开门红”，未曾想最终变成她一个人的孤独与无奈。
If this situation continues until the end of March, Wu Yu nearly two years of investment will be wasted: the renovation costs of the previous period, daily maintenance fees, paid rent, marketing platform access fees... planned to this Spring Festival during the major efforts to start a "hot," did not want to eventually become her alone and helpless.
这种感受，对远在千里之外的林珂并不陌生。
This feeling was no stranger to Lincolm, who was a thousand miles away.
林珂是北京一家小型旅行社的负责人，随着疫情恶化，全国旅行社团队游被叫停。
Linke, the head of a small travel agency in Beijing, was stopped as the epidemic worsened.
他现在只有一个工作：协助用户退团。
He now has only one job: to help the user quit.
“即便目前疫情终止，旅游行业恢复也至少需要半年的时间，考虑到后期的人力成本等，可能会选择解散小团队，另谋副业。
"Even if the current outbreak ends, it will take at least six months for the tourism sector to recover, and given the later human costs, it may choose to disband the small team and find a second job.
”林珂在微信对话中连连输入几个“郁闷”，最后向《财经》记者调侃称，“实在不行，就回家种菜养猪”。
"LinkedIn the conversation, Lin repeated a few" depressed ", and finally told Caijing that" really not, go home to plant vegetables and raise pigs.
受到新型肺炎疫情影响的绝不仅仅是民宿、旅游等行业。
The impact of the new pneumonia epidemic is far from limited to residential, tourist and other industries.
恒大研究院院长任泽平在《疫情对中国经济的影响分析与政策建议》（下称《建议》）一文中指出，从中观行业的影响来看，餐饮、旅游、电影、交运、教育培训等行业冲击最大，医药医疗、在线游戏等行业受益。
The impact of the epidemic on China's economy was felt most acutely by the catering, tourism, film, delivery, education and training industries, as well as the medical and online games industries, said Ren Zeping, dean of the Heng University Research Institute, in An Analysis of the Impact of the Epidemic on the Chinese Economy and Policy Recommendations (hereinafter referred to as the Recommendations).
简单估算，电影票房70亿（市场预测）+餐饮零售5000亿（假设腰斩）+旅游市场5000亿（完全冻结），短短7天，仅这三个行业直接经济损失就超过1万亿，占2019年一季度GDP21.8万亿的4.6%，这还不包括其他行业。
Simply put, the film box office 7 billion (market forecast) + catering retail 500 billion (assuming half) + tourism market 500 billion (completely frozen), in just seven days, the direct economic losses of these three industries alone exceed $1 trillion, or 4.6% of GDP of $21.8 trillion in the first quarter of 2019, not including other industries.
“覆巢之下，焉有完卵”。
"Under the nest, there are eggs."
疫情阴霾笼罩，身处行业之中的微观个体（中小微企业、个体经营者等），已然嗅到了危险的“味道”。
The spectre of the epidemic is such that micro-individuals in the industry (MSMEs, self-employed people, etc.) already sense a dangerous "taste."
现金流告急疫情之下，首当其冲受到影响的便是餐饮企业经营者。
Cash flow under the emergency, the first to be affected is the catering business operators.
为防止疫情蔓延，多家餐饮企业被迫宣布暂停营业，随之而来的房租、食材积压、人员成本等问题，一夜之间全都摆在面前。
Many restaurants have been forced to suspend operations to prevent the spread of the disease, with the attendant problems of rent, backlogs and staff costs looming overnight.
“对餐饮企业来说，这不是影响，也不是冲击，而是打击。
"For restaurants, it's not an impact, it's not a shock, it's a blow.
”西贝莜面村（下称“西贝”）董事长贾国龙在接受《财经》记者采访时表示，西贝本想在2020年“大展拳脚”，扭转2019年不太有利的发展形势，但疫情的突然到来，打乱了既定的规划。
In an interview with Caijing, Jia Guorong, president of Beibei naked face village (hereinafter referred to as "Xi Bei"), said in an interview with Caijing that he wanted to "make a big show" in 2020 to reverse the less favourable development in 2019, but the sudden arrival of the epidemic disrupted the planned schedule.
据多名餐饮企业经营者透露，虽然2019年整个餐饮行业仍然呈现增长态势，但处于经济下行周期，叠加客流不足、原材料上涨等因素，不少餐饮企业业绩出现明显下滑，尤其是一些连锁餐饮品牌，日子更是难过。
According to a number of restaurant business operators, although 2019 the entire catering industry is still showing growth trend, but in the economic downturn cycle, superimposed insufficient passenger flow, raw materials and other factors, many catering enterprises have experienced a marked decline in performance, especially some restaurant chain brands, the day is more difficult.
不同于部分餐饮企业提及房租、食材积压等带来的成本攀升难题，在贾国龙看来，当下西贝所面临的问题主要集中在2万多员工的工资支出。
Unlike some restaurant companies, which mention rising costs due to rent and food backlog, Mr. Jia said the current problems facing the company are focused on the salaries of more than 20,000 employees.
受疫情影响，部分地方将春节假期延迟至2月10日，但在此期间，员工工资仍需按照国家要求如常支付。
Owing to the outbreak, some localities postponed the Spring Festival holiday until 10 February, but during this period, salaries of staff still had to be paid as required by the State.
“我们现在有1万多员工只能在宿舍待着，差不多1万员工回了家。
"We now have more than 10,000 employees in the dorm and almost 10,000 at home.
家里的来不了，宿舍的放不出去，后者得管好吃、管好住、管好安全，在员工没有开展工作、公司无经营收入、何时复工存未知数的情况下，工资如常全额支付所带来的压力确实很大。
The home can not come, the dormitory can not be put out, the latter have to control delicious, well-managed, security, in the absence of employees to work, the company has no operating income, when the resumption of work in the unknown, pay as usual full pressure.
”贾国龙向《财经》记者算了一笔账，西贝共2万多名员工，每个月正常的薪水支出近1.6亿元，3个月的话就接近5亿元。
Jia made an account with Caijing, which employs more than 20,000 people and spends nearly 160 million yuan a month on regular salaries, close to 500 million yuan in three months.
虽然员工规模未及西贝，但巴奴毛肚火锅创始人杜中兵亦深有感触。
Although the staff size does not reach the West Bay, but Banu Maomao hotpot founder Du Zhongbing also impressed.
其告诉《财经》记者，伴随年末结清货款、支付员工工资及年终奖等，企业现金流吃紧，很多餐饮企业本想依靠春节消费“回血”，但在疫情影响下，不仅没有营业收入“进项”，还变成了纯支出。
He told Caijing that cash flow was tight with year-end settlement, staff salaries and year-end bonuses, and many restaurants had hoped to rely on Spring Festival consumption, but the epidemic has turned into net spending instead of operating income.
若一个月没有现金流进账，只有现金流的支出，大部分餐饮企业很难扛过一个月。
If a month without cash flow into the account, only cash flow of expenditure, most catering enterprises are difficult to carry for a month.
再往坏的情况想，至少得做好6个月的现金储备，才能抵抗风险。
At worst, it would take at least six months of cash reserves to insure against risk.
但对于大多数餐饮企业来说，眼下能扛过一个月就已十分艰难。
But for most restaurants, it's hard to carry a month right now.
“我所在的几个餐饮企业负责人微信群，最近天天都在讨论现金流问题，有的甚至考虑通过大众点评、饿了么等平台申请借款渡过难关。
"Several of my catering chiefs have been discussing cash flow on a daily basis, and some are even considering borrowing money to tide them over through public comment and starvation.
”某餐饮企业负责人表示，若疫情持续，现金流问题将成为2020年压倒不少餐饮企业的“最后一根稻草”。
The head of a restaurant company said cash flow problems would be "the last straw" for many restaurants in 2020 if the epidemic continues.
几乎同一时间，在这场突如其来的打击之下，餐饮行业的个体经营者亦面临“生与死”的难题。
Almost at the same time, under this sudden blow, the catering industry's self-employed also face the "life and death" problem.
“预计支撑到阴历2月初，如果依然不开工，肯定得裁员。
"It is expected to last until early February of the lunar calendar, and if it does not start, people will have to be laid off.
”一位奶茶店老板向自己的哥们吐槽，当前疫情对店铺带来的影响。
A dairyman told his buddy about the impact of the current outbreak on shops.
该老板介绍，店内雇佣的阿姨的月工资水平在3000元左右，如果拖到阴历2月初还不能开工，只能将一些人辞退。
According to the boss, aunts employed in the store earn about 3,000 yuan a month and can only be laid off if they can't start work until the beginning of February.
而3000元的收入对这些家庭是什么概念？“一般都是家庭的主要收入来源，所以，这些人一旦被辞退，他们的家庭生活都会受到很大的影响。
But what does an income of 3,000 yuan mean to these families? "They are usually the main source of income for the family, so when they are laid off, their family life is greatly affected.
”若疫情再继续恶化，恐怕奶茶店也只能关门大吉。
If the outbreak continues to worsen, milk tea shops may have to close.
在《财经》记者近日采访的多名个体经营者中，陷入与奶茶店老板同样困境的不占少数。
Among the self-employed people interviewed recently by Caijing, not a few are caught up in the same predicament as the owner of the milk tea shop.
停工之后面临倒闭无独有偶，还有更多的行业和企业在疫情的影响下“煎熬”。
Shut down after facing closure, there are more industries and enterprises in the impact of the epidemic "suffering."
本欲在国外享受春节假期的某温州建筑企业董事，此刻内心充斥着焦虑和不安。
The director of a Wenzhou construction company who wants to enjoy the Spring Festival abroad is filled with anxiety and uneasiness.
受疫情影响，若在正月月底前公司还不能正常动工，他将面临项目逾期违约、租赁设备高昂租金的成本支出。
Affected by the outbreak, if the company can not start work before the end of January, he will face the project overdue default, high rental costs of equipment costs.
该董事所在建筑公司有几十个项目，每个项目有几十人甚至达上百人，工人总规模达万人。
The director works for a construction company with dozens of projects, tens or even hundreds of people, and a total of 10,000 workers.
据其介绍，该企业属于假期偏长行业，往年一般都在正月十二才正式开工，但是今年毫无预计，只能等待通知，所有项目处于停滞状态。
The company said it was a long-term holiday industry, which typically starts on January 12, but this year it had no expectations and had to wait to be notified that all projects were at a standstill.
在他看来，即便可以复工也没有意义，因为工人根本回不了温州。
In his view, it would be pointless to get back to work, because the workers would not be able to return to Wenzhou.
根据地方最新将假期延至2月10日的安排，即便当天上班，该企业也只有几个人值班。
Even on the day of work, there were only a few people on duty, according to the latest local extension of the holiday to 10 February.
“在温州，工厂基本都不能复工，影响很严重。
"In Wenzhou, factories are basically not able to resume work, the impact is very serious.
”该董事介绍，他旗下的一家混凝土公司，在150人的司机中，湖北人占比达40%，“这些人肯定都回不来，场地必然停工。
"Hubei people account for 40 per cent of the 150 drivers at one of his concrete companies," said the director.
”项目停止对这家公司的损失是工期延误，工期延误导致的直接结果是赔付甲方逾期款，另外还有很多租用设备，即便不开工也有租金支出，“工期延期还可与甲方进行商讨，但是租赁设备都有合同，设备租借方也有成本支出，比较难协商。
The suspension of the project is a direct result of the delay in payment of Party A's overdue payments. There are also many rental facilities, even if not started. "Party A may also be consulted on the extension of the project, but the lease of the equipment is subject to a contract and the equipment leasing party has costs which are more difficult to negotiate.
”另据上述董事介绍，虽然属于建筑行业，但是公司行政人员都是带薪放假。
According to the director, while in the construction industry, executives are on paid leave.
初步统计，该公司租赁设备的租金成本一天达几十万元，带薪工资成本一个月也有几百万元。
Preliminary statistics, the rental cost of the company's rental equipment up to hundreds of thousands of dollars a day, wage costs a month also millions of dollars.
假期期间，该公司财务账户全部处于停滞状态。
The company's financial accounts all stagnated during the holiday period.
虽然这家年营收规模在几十亿元水平的建筑公司还有一定的余额资金，但是项目停滞带来的损失亦是一大打击。
While the construction company, which generates billions of dollars a year, still has some balance, the cost of the project's stagnation is also a major blow.
颇具规模的企业尚且困难重重，一些小型甚至微型企业恐怕就如在“针尖上堆豆子”——难上加难。
Large-scale companies are struggling, and some small and even micro-enterprises are likely to be "peas on the tip of a needle" - even more so.
位于东莞的某电子商务平台负责人在接受《财经》记者采访时表示，近年来，随着国内电子商务平台竞争白热化，平台内政策让商家机会变少，广告成本过高，进而导致盈利骤减，这种困局反显在2019年的财务报表上。
In recent years, as domestic e-commerce platforms have become more competitive, intra-platform policies have led to fewer opportunities for businesses and higher advertising costs, leading to a sharp drop in profits, the head of an e-commerce platform in Dongguan told Caijing.
据其透露，该公司2019年全年销售额虽近1.2亿元，但净利润却只有500万元。
The company reported a net profit of only $5 million in 2019, despite sales of nearly 120 million yuan.
“我们已近一个月停工停产，没有任何营收，但仍然要支出十足的人工成本、租金成本等。
"We have been out of business for almost a month without any revenue, but we still have to spend a lot of labor costs, rental costs, etc.
即便之后复工，因为我们的电子产品是由供应链提供半成品，供应商端复工正常交货预计要到3月份。
Even if we get back to work later, because our electronics are semi-finished by the supply chain, normal deliveries from the supplier side are expected by March.
所以需要等到3月中下旬，我们才能有充足的货物销售。
So we'll have to wait until the middle or second half of March before we can get enough goods to sell.
”上述负责人直言，企业短期内要承受资金流的压力不小。
The person in charge said bluntly that companies are under pressure to absorb capital flows in the short term.
要想平稳过渡，必须在3月份追回1月、2月的目标，但这个实现起来难度很大。
A smooth transition would require that the January and February targets be recovered in March, but that would be difficult to achieve.
若无法实现，第一季度注定会出现严重亏损。
Failure to do so is bound to lead to serious losses in the first quarter.
部分中小企业负责人在采访中向《财经》记者坦言，当前是特殊阶段，肯定希望能帮助国家做更多的事，但企业实际也是疫情下的无辜群体，顶住压力保障员工在疫情期间的经济来源，谁又来保障微小企业在这次疫情中遭受的损失？而这些压力和损失若处理不当，企业很可能“倒下”，终致员工失业。
In an interview with Caijing, some heads of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) confessed to Caijing that this is a special stage, and it is certainly hoped that they will help the country do more, but enterprises are also innocent of the epidemic.
“现在已经九死一生，特别是这个年关难过，真的难。
"It's been a long time, especially this year. It's really hard.
若疫情无法得到有效控制，2020年将会有不少中小企业倒下。
If the epidemic is not brought under effective control, many small and medium-sized enterprises will collapse in 2020.
”一名负责农村能源电动车生产的企业负责人透露，去年底国家启动空气污染预警，企业连续停产2个月。
An enterprise in charge of producing rural energy electric vehicles said last year the country launched an early warning of air pollution and companies stopped production for two months in a row.
本期望在2020年实现效益增长，但疫情导致产品交付延期，客户取消订单，运转资金断裂，可谓“雪上加霜”。
Expectations of efficiency gains by 2020 have been compounded by the epidemic, which has delayed product delivery, cancelled orders and disrupted operating funds.
金融驰援初起疫情所带来的影响，已经从对行业的打击，蔓延至更多的企业，甚至个体。
The impact of the incipient financial rescue epidemic has spread from the impact on the industry to more enterprises and even individuals.
这亦引起了相关监管部门的关注。
This also attracted the attention of the relevant regulatory authorities.
2月1日，人民银行、财政部、银保监会、证监会、外汇局等五部门联合印发《关于进一步强化金融支持防控新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情的通知》，指出对受疫情影响较大的批发零售、住宿餐饮、物流运输、文化旅游等行业，以及有发展前景但受疫情影响暂遇困难的企业，特别是小微企业，不得盲目抽贷、断贷、压贷；对受疫情影响严重的企业到期还款困难的，可予以展期或续贷；通过适当下调贷款利率、增加信用贷款和中长期贷款等方式，支持相关企业战胜疫情灾害影响等。
On February 1, the People's Bank of China, the Ministry of Finance, the CBRC, the CSRC and the SAFE jointly issued the Notice on Further Strengthening Financial Support to Prevent and Control the Infection of Coronavirus Pneumonia.
此前的1月26日，银保监会发布《关于加强银行业保险业金融服务 配合做好新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控工作的通知》，亦针对受困企业金融服务提出具体要求。
Earlier on January 26, the CBRC issued the Notice on Strengthening Banking and Insurance Financial Services to Cooperate in the Prevention and Control of Pneumonia due to New Coronavirus Infection, and put forward specific requirements for the financial services of troubled enterprises.
紧接着，包括央行上海总部、央行营业管理部（北京）、央行重庆营业管理部、和央行广州分行等相继公布了关于疫情防控的工作安排。
Immediately afterwards, the central bank's Shanghai headquarters, the central bank's business administration department (Beijing), the central bank's Chongqing Administration of Operations, and the central bank's Guangzhou branch announced work plans for epidemic prevention and control.
就资金支持来看，央行多地分支机构鼓励金融机构在定价、担保方面给予优惠，实施专项优惠利率等支持方式；在审批流程上，可建立专项信贷审批绿色通道，对涉及疫情防控的企业合理信贷申请“特事特办”、“急事急办”，简化流程、快审快批、尽快发放。
In terms of financial support, many branches of the Central Bank encourage financial institutions to give preferential treatment in pricing and guarantee, and implement special preferential interest rates. In terms of approval procedures, special credit approval green channels may be established to apply for special projects and urgent affairs for enterprises involved in disease prevention and control.
疫情之下，包括国有大行、股份制银行、政策性银行、城商行在内的部分银行机构，均针对小微企业、个体工商户等采取了相应的纾困措施。
Under the epidemic situation, some banking institutions, including state-owned banks, shareholding banks, policy banks and comptoirs, have adopted corresponding relief measures for micro, small and individual businesses.
如农业银行、建设银行、交通银行、中信银行等出台相关政策，在新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情防控期间，针对疫情防控的相应小微企业、个体工商户的经营性贷款在现行基础上利率下调0.5个百分点等措施。
For example, Agricultural Bank, Construction Bank, Bank of Communications, Citic Bank and other relevant policies, during the prevention and control of the new coronavirus pneumonia, the corresponding operational loans for micro-enterprises and individual businesses against the epidemic were reduced by 0.5 percentage points from the current rate.
与此同时，中国银行、邮储银行、招商银行、微众银行等提出，对于疫情影响正常经营、遇到暂时困难的企业，根据实际情况，通过减免逾期利息、贷款展期等方式进行支持。
At the same time, the Bank of China, China Post and Reserve Bank, China Merchants Bank and Micro-Banking Corporation have proposed that enterprises suffering temporary difficulties due to the epidemic's impact on normal operations should be supported through the reduction of overdue interest and the extension of loans according to actual conditions.
《财经》记者亦注意到，目前银行的信贷支持主要围绕疫情展开，基本为生物制药、医疗器械、医药科研等领域客户。
Caijing also noted that at present, the bank's credit support mainly revolves around the epidemic, basically for the biopharmaceutical, medical equipment, medical research and other fields of customers.
但即便是与这些领域相关，也有企业在此次疫情中申请贷款时遭到银行“拒绝”。
But even in these areas, companies have been "turned down" by banks when they apply for loans in the current outbreak.
身处疫情一线的湖北长江源制药（下称“长江源制药”）有限公司董事长罗明对此感受颇深。
At the forefront of the epidemic in Hubei Changjiang Yuan Pharmaceutical ("Changjiang Source Pharmaceutical") Co. Ltd. Chairman Luo Ming felt deeply about this.
疫情爆发后，他开始大量采购、调配医疗物资供应前线，这背后就需要足够的资金支持。
After the outbreak, he began to procure and deploy medical supplies on the front lines, which required adequate funding.
但当他向一家长期沟通的银行提交贷款申请时，却遭到“婉拒”。
But when he applied for a loan from a bank that had been communicating for a long time, he was "declined".
公开资料显示，长江源制药隶属于长江医药集团，后者目前产值销售突破30 亿元、市值近40亿元，旗下涉及中药、胶囊、医药物流、医药连锁等业务板块。
The company, which currently sells more than 3 billion yuan in value and has a market value of nearly 4 billion yuan, is involved in business sectors such as Chinese medicine, capsules, pharmaceutical logistics and pharmaceutical chains.
在其他行业遭受疫情冲击之际，医药等行业被视作将迎来新一轮发展的春天。
At a time when other industries are suffering from the epidemic, industries such as medicine are seen as the springtime for a new round of development.
“我们这种情况都吃了‘闭门羹’，其他行业中未具规模的企业恐怕会更难。
"We've all been shut down in this situation and it's probably harder for companies in other industries that don't have the scale."
”罗明说。
"said Roming.
不在抗疫一线，但同样因为疫情连续加班多日的广州市金浪星非织造布有限公司（下称“金浪星”）总经理冯灼辉，在谈到近几年从银行申请贷款时，回答了三个字：“太难了”。
Fung Enhui, general manager of Jinlang Star Nonwovens Co., Ltd. ("Jinlang Star"), who was not fighting the epidemic but had also been working overtime for days, answered three words: "It's too difficult," referring to loan applications from banks in recent years.
据冯灼辉介绍，金浪星主做无纺布加工，此次疫情中主要是生产防护服。
According to Feng, Jinlong Star main non-woven processing, this epidemic situation is mainly the production of protective clothing.
据了解，该公司的产品以销售到国外市场为主，但受中美贸易摩擦等因素影响， 在2019年营业额达到5000万元的情况下，仅实现50万元的微利，而公司的人员也在近几年从巅峰时的几百人缩减至如今的几十人。
It is understood that the company's products are mainly sold to foreign markets, but due to factors such as trade friction between China and the United States, the turnover in 2019 reached 50 million yuan, only a small profit of 500,000 yuan, and the company's personnel has shrunk from a peak of several hundred in recent years to dozens today.
“在公司业绩和人员变化的过程中，一旦发生风险，银行就会立即收走贷款；经营形势再差点，根本拿不到贷款。
"In the process of company performance and personnel changes, banks immediately withdraw loans if there is a risk; the business situation is so close that no loans are available."
”冯灼辉忆及此前经历时如是表示。
Mr Fung recalled earlier experiences in this way.
但在此次疫情之下，相比其他企业，长江源制药和金浪星是“幸运”的。
But in this epidemic, compared with other enterprises, Changjiang-yuan pharmaceutical and Jinghong star is "lucky."
据了解，中国农业发展银行湖北分行、广东分行分别主动联系到两家企业，并迅速完成了两笔贷款支持（长江源制药4000万元、金浪星500万元）。
It is understood that the Agricultural Development Bank of China Hubei Branch, Guangdong Branch actively contacted two enterprises, and quickly completed two loans (Changjiang yuan pharmaceutical 40 million yuan, Jinghong 5 million yuan).
值得注意的是，除银行等金融机构采取针对小微企业等的纾困措施，包括万达商管集团、龙湖集团、新城控股、爱琴海集团等公司均宣布了针对旗下商场商户租金的减免措施。
It is worth noting that, in addition to financial institutions such as banks, such as MSMEs, such as Wanda Commercial Management Group, Lung Wu Group, Xincheng Holdings, Aegean Group and others have announced rent relief measures for their mall tenants.
但这些措施究竟能够在多大程度上缓解当前遭受疫情冲击的中小微企业困境？“通常情况下，银行贷款要考虑你的现金流是否稳定、是否有抵押物等因素，平常我们的授信额度都用不完，但如果疫情继续，估计得反过来‘求着’银行提供资金，但按照银行的审批流程，很难及时‘灭火’；另一方面，地产公司减免租金看似帮我们解决了大问题，但是被迫暂停营业之后，成千上万员工的工资依然是压在我们自己身上。
But to what extent can these measures alleviate the plight of MSMEs that are currently suffering from the epidemic? "Normally, bank loans take into account such factors as cash flow stability and collateral, but if the epidemic continues, it is difficult to 'fire the fire' in time.
“某大型餐饮企业高管直言，当下，很多遭受冲击的企业并不能得到相应的信贷支持，而且即便是延期还款、减免逾期利息和租金等措施，对部分中小型企业来说，也就是能够再扛扛，并不能解决根本问题。
"One big restaurant executive made it clear that many of the companies hit today do not have access to credit, and even measures such as deferred payments, overdue interest and rent relief do not solve the underlying problem for some SMEs, namely being able to carry on."
对于企业当前困境及相关措施效力问题，邮储银行高级经济师卜振兴接受《财经》记者采访时指出，从企业的角度来看，因为疫情导致停工停产，金融行业所谓的续贷、降低利率等措施，只是维持企业不发生名义上的违约，但是企业的成本不仅仅是资金成本，还包括租金成本、人工成本等方面，单纯依靠金融支持毕竟有限，企业更需要的是有订单和进项科目；其次，差异化的、定向性的信贷政策虽然听起来很美好，但尚需要配套的技术和人力支持，没有信贷调研，出现了违约事件，信贷人员依然要要承担责任，这是客观情况；再者，银行目前也受疫情影响无法开展全部工作，很多政策难以完全落实到位。
In an interview with Caijing, senior economist Bosheng told Caijing that from the enterprise's point of view, because the epidemic led to stoppage of production, so-called financial sector loan renewal, reduce interest rates, etc.
期待更大扶持“杯水车薪！”对于当前出台的措施，多名在疫情中遭受打击的中小企业负责人向《财经》记者表示，若疫情继续，且又无更大范围的有效政策出台，不少企业恐无法看到阴霾后的暖阳。
Looking forward to more support for the current measures, a number of small and medium-sized enterprises hit by the outbreak of the crisis told Caijing that if the epidemic continues and there is no broader effective policy in place, many companies may not be able to see the warm sun behind the clouds.
而当前，疫情拐点未至。
At present, the inflection point of the epidemic.
据国家卫生健康委，截至1月31日24时，全国累计报告确诊病例11791例，现有重症病例1795例，累计死亡病例259例，累计治愈出院病例243例，共有疑似病例17988例。
As of 2400 hours on January 31, a total of 11,791 confirmed cases, 1,795 severe cases and 259 cumulative deaths had been reported nationwide, with 243 cases cured and a total of 17,988 suspected cases.
另一方面，此次疫情已引发全球关注。
On the other hand, the epidemic has caused global concern.
1月30日，世界卫生组织（WHO）在日内瓦正式宣布此次疫情为“国际关注的突发公共卫生事件”（PHEIC）。
The World Health Organization (WHO) officially declared the outbreak "a public health emergency of international concern" (PHEIC) in Geneva on January 30.
有观点认为，虽然这并不代表中国被列入“疫区国”，但随着疫情发展，其对中国经济带来的不良影响将引发市场担忧，旅游、外贸等行业或再度遭受重创，且短期内难以恢复。
The view was expressed that although this does not mean that China is listed as an epidemic-stricken country, the negative impact on the Chinese economy will cause market worries and tourism, foreign trade and other industries will be hard hit again, and will not recover in the short term.
不少中小微企业主呼吁更大范围的“减税降费”政策出台。
Many small and medium-sized business owners are calling for a broader "tax cut" policy.
“税费适当减免、社保上缴额度弹性处理、给予这次受疫情影响不能正常返工所在企业一定的薪资补贴，或者针对未能正常工作的员工，是否可设定最低工资标准，而不是全额支付工资。
"Appropriate tax relief, flexible social security contributions, the impact of the epidemic can be given to the enterprises can not be a regular rework of the enterprises, or the workers can be set the minimum wage, rather than the full payment of wages.
”上述电子商务平台负责人直言，在企业好的时候，要与员工共享成果；但在企业艰难的时候，也希望员工与企业共同克服，而不是让企业独自“负重”。
The person in charge of the e-commerce platform bluntly said he wanted to share the results with employees when the company was doing well, but also wanted employees and companies to overcome when times were tough, rather than leaving the company to "bear the burden" alone.
任泽平亦在《建议》一文中提出多条具体建议，包括：适当减免一季度受疫情影响严重的部门尤其是交运（民航、公路客运、水路客运和出租汽车）、旅游、餐饮、住宿等行业的增值税，亏损金额抵减盈利月份的金额以降低所得税；进一步降低社保缴费率，养老、医疗缴费率可分别降低1和2个百分点，降低企业负担；给予企业部分受疫情影响期间受损行业的财政贴息，可暂定一个季度；对参与捐赠的企业和个人行为予以所得税、个人所得税抵扣，不受目前企业所得税税前利润12%限额的约束，鼓励社会捐赠等。
Mr. Ren also made a number of specific proposals in the Recommendations, including: providing appropriate relief to sectors severely affected by the epidemic in the first quarter, in particular VAT on shipping (civil aviation, road passenger, passenger and taxi transport), tourism, catering and accommodation industries, reducing the income tax by 1 and 2 percentage points respectively.
提及经济金融领域的具体应对之策，中国民生银行首席研究员在《财经》上发文指出，货币政策要实现“两降三提高”。
Referring to specific policy responses in the economic and financial field, the bank's chief researcher, Caijing, said in a statement that monetary policy needed to achieve "two falls, three increases."
“两降”，即根据疫情的发展和经济的需要，及时引导LPR降息、实施降准，同时灵活运用MLF、SLF等货币政策工具，创新应对疫情专项流动性支持工具，最终降低企业和居民的融资成本。
"Two Health" means guiding the LPR to cut interest rates and cut interest rates in a timely manner according to the development of the epidemic and the needs of the economy, while flexibly employing monetary policy tools such as the MLF and SLF to create specific liquidity support tools to address the epidemic, ultimately reducing the cost of financing for enterprises and residents.
“三提高”，即：加快批准金融机构资本补充的申请，提高金融机构服务实体经济，特别是服务民营企业、小微企业和疫情严重地区企业的能力；加强银行、政府、企业多方信息对接，建议监管部门协调疫情严重地区的政府部门，最大程度与相关金融机构实现各方面涉企信息的共享，提高银行远程服务能力和服务效率，必要时由地方政府确定防控疫情重点企业白名单，并由地方政府给予信用背书，由金融机构，给予低息信用贷款等创新金融支持；建议监管机构加快完善不良贷款的认定和处置办法，尽快出台适用全行业的贷款尽职免责指引，切实提高监管部门对金融机构不良贷款的容忍度。
We will strengthen the ability of financial institutions to serve the real economy, especially private enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises and enterprises in areas with serious epidemics.
在疫情防控背景下，形成金融机构敢贷、愿贷、能贷的环境氛围。
In the context of disease control, the formation of financial institutions dare to loan, willing to lend, can lend the environment atmosphere.
而在上文提到的贾国龙、罗明、冯灼辉等企业负责人看来，出台更大范围内的有效政策肯定是当前的首要任务，但如何把这些政策落到实处，尚需多方努力。
Jia Guolong, Lo Ming and Feng Enghui, among others, believe that putting in place effective policies on a larger scale must be a top priority at present, but much remains to be done to put these policies into practice.
“只有两个字：‘落实’。
"There are only two words: 'carry it out.
不要来虚的落实，不要搞形式主义，不要说虚话和套话，要用实际行动来帮助企业。
Do not empty the implementation, do not engage in formalism, do not say empty words and cliches, but with practical action to help enterprises.
群策群力之下，一定能够给中小企业生存发展带来新的生机，进而坚定让大家走下去的决心。
Under the collective efforts, small and medium-sized enterprises can certainly bring new vitality to the survival and development, and then firmly let everyone go down the determination.
”某民营企业高管向《财经》记者表示。
A private-sector executive told Caijing.
当然，对遭受新型肺炎疫情冲击的行业、企业、个体来说，倘若疫情能早点结束，那肯定再好不过。
Of course, for industries, businesses, and individuals hit by the new pneumonia epidemic, it would be nice if the epidemic ended sooner.
重庆民宿经营者吴雨、北京某旅行社负责人林珂不约而同地在朋友圈发了一张图片，上面写着：“这世上没有人比我们更希望世界和平、风调雨顺的了。
"No one in the world wants more peace and better weather in the world than we do," said Lin Kuo, head of a travel agency in Beijing and a resident of Chongqing.
”（应受访者要求，吴雨、林珂为化名）（《财经》记者俞燕、实习生张琳宜对本文亦有贡献）新型冠状病毒疫情系列报道▷ 点击图片查看责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
(At the request of the respondents, Mr Wu Yu and Lin Ko as aliases) (Caijing reporter Yu Yan, intern Zhang Lingyi contributed to this article) The new coronavirus series should be viewed at least once.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
中小企业现金流告急，停工裁员待扶持。
Small and medium-sized enterprises cash flow crisis, layoffs pending support.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "中小企业现金流告急，停工裁员待扶持";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "疫情蔓延令本就身处经济逆周期的中小企业雪上加霜，尽管驰援举措已开始出台，但他们企盼更大规模的政策扶持，比如减费降税";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
