美国确诊超300例：FBI加州员工感染，华盛顿成重灾区。
Over 300 cases confirmed in the United States: FBI employees in California infected, Washington into a major disaster area.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：Twitter“ 美国西海岸依然是重灾区。
Source: Twitter: "The West Coast of the United States is still a disaster area.
美国副总统彭斯承认，病毒检测已成防控疫情一大缺陷。
Vice President Burns acknowledged that testing for the virus has become a major weakness in preventing and controlling the disease.
“美国现有检测不足，不能满足检测需求的预期增长。
"The current level of testing in the United States is insufficient to meet the expected growth in testing demand.
””新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情继续在美国蔓延：美国联邦调查局（FBI）在加州旧金山附属办公室的一名员工确诊感染；夏威夷报告首例确诊；华盛顿州金县养老机构的社群感染持续。
"The new coronavirus pneumonia is continuing to spread in the United States: an FBI employee at the San Francisco satellite office in California confirmed the infection; Hawaii reported the first confirmed case; and community infections persist in Golden County, Washington.
据CBS新闻3月6日报告，FBI当天发表声明确认，旧金山分布附属办公室的一名员工在新冠病毒检测中呈阳性。
An FBI employee in a San Francisco-based satellite office tested positive for the new crown virus, the FBI said in a statement.
声明并未透露该员工如何感染，仅表示员工所在办公室规模较小。
The statement didn't say how the employee was infected, only that the employee was in a small office.
办公室其他工作人员已经各自回家等候下一步通知，与确诊员工有过密切接触的人员已经得知相关消息。
Other office workers have returned home to await further notification, and those who have been in close contact with the confirmed staff have been informed.
FBI称，目前该机构的行动没有受到新冠疫情影响，FBI将照常运作并采取预防措施确保员工的身体健康。
The FBI said it had not been affected by the new outbreak and would continue to operate and take precautions to ensure the health of its staff.
这是FBI首次报告确诊病例。
This is the first confirmed case reported by the FBI.
此前，美国防部证实美军中已有四人感染新冠肺炎，另有12例疑似病例。
The U.S. Department of Defense has confirmed four new cases of pneumonia in U.S. troops and 12 other suspected cases.
美国以色列公共事务委员会6日则宣布，出席本周会议的两名参会者确诊感染新冠病毒肺炎。
The Israeli Public Affairs Committee on the 6th announced that this week's meeting of the two participants confirmed the infection with the new crown virus pneumonia.
美国副总统彭斯、国务卿蓬佩奥、参议院多数党领袖麦康奈尔、共和党议员克鲁兹、刚宣布退出选举的布隆伯格以及众多议员均出席了此次为期三天的会议。
Vice President Burns, Secretary of State Pompey, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, Republican Congressman Cruz, newly announced withdrawal of Bloomberg and a large number of lawmakers attended the three-day meeting.
截至6日，美国累计确诊307例，其中17人死亡。
As of June, 307 cases had been confirmed in the United States, of which 17 had died.
该数字不包括“至尊公主”号邮轮上的确诊病例。
The figure does not include the confirmed cases on board the MV Princess Supreme.
夏威夷报告首例确诊；佛罗里达州出现首例死亡病例，也是东海岸的首例死亡病例。
The first confirmed case was reported in Hawaii; the first death in Florida and the first on the east coast.
美国西海岸依然是重灾区。
The west coast of the United States is still devastated.
华盛顿州累计确诊80例，为全美确诊病例最多的州。
Cumulatively, 80 cases were diagnosed in Washington State, the highest number of confirmed cases in the United States.
死亡病例高达14例，美国绝大部分死亡病例都来自该州。
The state accounts for the vast majority of deaths in the United States.
美国确诊病例分布。
Distribution of confirmed cases in United States.
图片来源：纽约时报而在华盛顿州，金县成为疫情爆发风暴眼。
Photo Source: The New York Times and in Washington, D. C., King County became the eye of an outbreak storm.
金县柯克兰市的养老院Life Care Center已经出现10例死亡病例，养老院还有15名住户被送往医院接受检查。
There have been 10 deaths at the Life Care Center in Kirkland, Kim County, and 15 residents have been taken to hospitals for tests.
西雅图地区的另外两家养老院则分别出现了一例确诊病例，西雅图市中心一家星巴克的一名员工也于周五晚被确诊感染。
There was one confirmed case in two other retirement homes in Seattle, and a Starbucks employee in downtown Seattle was diagnosed Friday night.
西雅图位于金县，也是金县的县治所在。
Seattle is located in King County and is the county seat of Jinxian County.
西雅图当局已经呼吁年龄在60岁以上的老年人留在家中不要外出，金县则呼吁该县所有上班族在家办公。
Authorities in Seattle have called on people over the age of 60 to stay at home, and Kim County has called on all office workers in the county to work from home.
此前，华盛顿大学已宣布将所有课程改为网络授课。
Previously, the University of Washington had announced that all courses would be taught online.
3月5日，“挂帅”负责新冠疫情防控工作的美国副总统彭斯承认，病毒检测已成为美国防控疫情一大缺陷。
On March 5, Vice President John Burns, who oversees the prevention and control of the new crown, admitted that testing for the virus had become a major U.S. control defect.
“美国现有检测不足，不能满足检测需求的预期增长。
"The current level of testing in the United States is insufficient to meet the expected growth in testing demand.
”。
"
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
美国确诊超300例：FBI加州员工感染，华盛顿成重灾区。
Over 300 cases confirmed in the United States: FBI employees in California infected, Washington into a major disaster area.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "美国确诊超300例：FBI加州员工感染，华盛顿成重灾区";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp;
var msg_desc = "美国西海岸依然是重灾区。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; America's west coast remains a major disaster area.
美国副总统彭斯承认，病毒检测已成防控疫情一大缺陷。
Vice President Burns acknowledged that testing for the virus has become a major weakness in preventing and controlling the disease.
“美国现有检测不足，不能满足检测需求的预期增长。
"The current level of testing in the United States is insufficient to meet the expected growth in testing demand.
”";。
";;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
