欧洲确诊病例超7000，意大利求援助医护装备仅得一国响应。
With more than 7,000 confirmed cases in Europe, Italy received only one response to its request for medical equipment.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：图虫“ 一些成员国已宣布禁止对包括欧盟国家在内的外国出口防护设备。
Source: Toothworm "Some member states have announced bans on the export of protective equipment to foreign countries, including EU countries.
欧盟官员表示，理解各国首先要保护本国民众，但禁令将影响欧盟共同应对疫情的能力。
EU officials said they understood that countries had to protect their own populations first, but that the ban would affect the ability of the European Union to respond collectively to the epidemic.
”随着欧洲新冠病毒肺炎确诊病例超过7000，欧盟各国卫生部长在布鲁塞尔召开紧急会议商议共同对策。
With more than 7,000 confirmed cases of pneumonia in Europe, EU health ministers met in Brussels in emergency session to agree on a common response.
会议中，欧盟试图说服德、法等国取消医用防护设备的出口禁令。
At the meeting, the European Union tried to persuade countries such as Germany and France to lift export bans on medical protective equipment.
截至3月6日，德国累计确诊病例已经升至670，是欧洲确诊人数第二高国家，仅次于意大利。
As of March 6, the cumulative number of confirmed cases in Germany had risen to 670, the second highest number of confirmed cases in Europe, after Italy.
排名德国之后、确诊653例的法国计划从下周起关闭两个受影响最严重地区的学校和托儿所。
France, which ranks behind Germany and has 653 confirmed cases, plans to close schools and nurseries in the two worst-affected areas next week.
据《华盛顿邮报》和德国之声3月7日报道，欧盟周五召开的紧急会议主要针对今后可能出现的防护设备短缺问题。
An emergency meeting Friday focused on possible future shortages of protective equipment, the Washington Post and Deutsche Welle reported.
随着确诊病例上升，德国、法国、捷克等国已经宣布禁止对包括欧盟国家在内的外国出口防护设备。
With confirmed cases on the rise, countries such as Germany, France and the Czech Republic have banned the export of protective equipment to foreign countries, including EU countries.
欧盟危机管理委员莱纳尔契奇（Janez Lenarcic）称，虽然她理解各国的首要任务是保护本国民众，但禁令将影响欧盟共同应对疫情的能力。
EU Crisis Management Commissioner Janez Lenarcic said that, while she understood that countries' priority was to protect their populations, the ban would affect the EU's ability to respond to the epidemic together.
确诊人数最多的意大利则不满欧盟成员国没有伸出援手。
Italy, with the largest number of confirmed cases, resented the failure of EU members to help.
从上周开始，意大利就呼吁各成员国支援医疗防护设备，但至今仅得到一国响应。
Since last week, Italy has appealed to member states to support medical equipment, but so far only one has responded.
对于欧盟的劝说，法国没有做出回应。
France did not respond to the EU's persuasion.
德国则表示如果欧盟推行禁令、禁止向非欧盟国家出口防护设备，德国可以考虑取消禁令。
Germany said it could consider lifting the ban if the European Union imposed a ban on the export of protective equipment to non-EU countries.
欧洲确诊地图。
Diagnostic maps of Europe.
图片来源：约翰斯·霍普金斯大学截至周五，欧洲共有215名患者死于新冠肺炎。
Source: Johns Hopkins University. As of Friday, 215 patients in Europe had died of pneumonia.
德国还没有出现任何死亡病例，但该国的医疗系统正承受巨大压力。
There have been no deaths in Germany, but the country's health-care system is under intense pressure.
德国16个联邦州里仅有东部的萨克森-安哈尔特州一州没有发现确诊病例，确诊人数最多的是西部的北莱茵威斯特法伦州。
Only one of Germany's 16 federal Länder, Saxony-Anhalt in the east, had no confirmed cases and the highest number of confirmed cases was in North Rhine-Westphalia in the west.
北莱茵威斯特法伦人口超过1800万，为德国人口最多的州，目前有超过一半确诊都出现在该州。
North Rhine-Westphalia, with a population of more than 18 million, is now home to more than half of Germany's most populous state.
据《柏林观察》报道，由于感染人数激增、防护设备不足，北莱茵威斯特法伦州海因斯贝格县已经出现医生没有防护服，继续接诊患者的情况。
In Heinsberg County, North Rhine-Westphalia, doctors continue to receive patients without protective clothing because of a surge in infections and inadequate protective equipment, according to the Berlin Watch.
海因斯贝格县当局警告，该县的医疗系统已经接近崩溃。
Heinsberg County authorities have warned that the county's health-care system is nearing collapse.
在首都柏林，检查新冠病毒的专门急诊也供不应求。
In the capital, Berlin, there is also a shortage of specialist emergency care for the new crown virus.
一名受访者怀疑自己感染病毒，前往专门为新冠病人开放的急诊检查。
One interviewee suspected that he was infected with the virus and went to an emergency check-up specifically for newly-crowned patients.
男子周四早上10点到诊所排队，只能拿到190号。
Men lined up at the clinic at 10 a.m. on Thursday morning, only to get number 190.
排队等待四个小时后，才轮到第140号就诊。
After waiting in line for four hours, it was my turn to see No. 140.
为防止民众涌入医疗机构，巴伐利亚州开始提供医生上门检查服务。
In order to prevent the influx of people into medical institutions, Bavaria began to provide home visits by doctors.
怀疑自己感染新冠病毒的民众可拨打电话，预约医生上门采样，医生再将样本带回实验室检测。
People who suspect they are infected with the new crown virus can call the phone, book a doctor's home sampling, and bring the sample back to the lab for testing.
虽然德国有全国流行疾病防控计划，但各州也有自己各州的防控方案，甚至在治疗方法上也有区别。
Although Germany has a national epidemic prevention and control programme, the Länder also have their own control programmes, even in terms of treatment methods.
面对防护设备紧缺难题，联邦政府的新冠危机管理部门已经计划统一购买防护设备。
Faced with a shortage of protective equipment, the federal government's New Crown Crisis Management Department has planned to buy protective equipment uniformly.
虽然德国尚未出现死亡病例，但研究人员警告，这只是时间问题。
There have been no deaths in Germany, but researchers warn it is only a matter of time.
部分研究人员已经呼吁政府采取更严格的防控措施，包括关闭全国的幼儿园和学校14天，取消大型集会。
Some researchers have called on the government to take stricter control measures, including closing kindergartens and schools across the country for 14 days and canceling large gatherings.
但德国教师协会及卫生部长已经驳回了关闭学校的建议。
However, the German Teachers' Association and the Minister of Health have rejected the proposal to close schools.
与此同时，法国总理菲利普则周五宣布从下周一开始的15天，关闭该国东北部和巴黎以北两处重灾区的学校和托儿所。
Meanwhile, French Prime Minister Philippe Philippe announced Friday that he would close schools and nurseries in the country's north-east and two hard-hit areas north of Paris for 15 days starting next Monday.
法国此前已经禁止超过5000人的室内集会。
France has banned indoor gatherings of more than 5,000 people.
法国总统马克龙还呼吁民众减少对老年亲属的拜访，以避免将病毒传染给老年人。
French President Nicolas Sarkozy has also called for fewer visits to older relatives to avoid transmitting the virus to the elderly.
但法国卫生部长维兰（Olivier Véran）已经表示，就算遭遇疫情，当局也不会“让这个国家的经济和社会生活瘫痪”。
But French Health Minister Olivier Véran has said that, even in the event of an outbreak, the authorities would not "paralyse the country's economic and social life."
与邻国的比利时相比，法国的防控措施已经能称得上谨慎。
Compared with neighbouring Belgium, France's control measures can already be described as prudent.
虽然已经有109例确诊病例，布鲁塞尔书市还将照常举行。
Although there have been 109 confirmed cases, the Brussels Book Fair will continue as usual.
此前，欧盟布鲁塞尔总部已有两名工作人员确诊。
This follows the confirmation of two staff members at EU headquarters in Brussels.
在周五的会议后，欧盟决定继续保持申根区人员的自由流动，不在各国边境重启边境检查。
Following Friday's meeting, the European Union decided to maintain the free movement of persons within the Schengen area and not to reopen border controls at national borders.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
欧洲确诊病例超7000，意大利求援助医护装备仅得一国响应。
With more than 7,000 confirmed cases in Europe, Italy received only one response to its request for medical equipment.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "欧洲确诊病例超7000，意大利求援助医护装备仅得一国响应";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Europe has had more than 7,000 confirmed cases, and Italy has only responded to & quot; & quot; with Italy requesting assistance with medical equipment.
var msg_desc = "一些成员国已宣布禁止对包括欧盟国家在内的外国出口防护设备。
var msg _ desc = & quot; some member States have announced a ban on foreign exports of protective equipment, including from EU countries.
欧盟官员表示，理解各国首先要保护本国民众，但禁令将影响欧盟共同应对疫情的能力。
EU officials said they understood that countries had to protect their own populations first, but that the ban would affect the ability of the European Union to respond collectively to the epidemic.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
