上海机场口岸防境外疫情输入，入境人员100%申报健康情况。
Shanghai airport port to prevent the importation of epidemic diseases, 100% of the entry personnel declare health status.
方卓然。
Fang Zhuolin.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
入境人员填报健康状况。
Immigration personnel report medical condition.
图片来源：上海海关记者：方卓然“ 上海海关对于14天内有过韩国、意大利、伊朗、日本等国家旅行和居住史但体温正常的旅客，会为其安排一条远离普通旅客的线路，将其集中带离机场，实施为期14天的居家或集中健康观察。
Source: Shanghai Customs: Fang Zhuolan "The Shanghai Customs will arrange a route away from the airport for passengers with normal body temperature who have a history of travel and residence in Korea, Italy, Iran, Japan and other countries within 14 days, for a 14-day stay-at-home or centralized health observation.
”口岸是进入上海的第一道关，而上海则是许多人从境外进入国内其他地方的一道门。
The port is the first port of entry into Shanghai, a gateway for many people from outside the country to other parts of the country.
因此，实行严格的口岸防控措施成了防控疫情的重要一步，如何精准、有效地防控境外疫情输入，成了上海面临的一个问题。
Therefore, the implementation of strict control measures at the port has become an important step in the prevention and control of the epidemic.
3月3日下午，上海市政府新闻办主任、市政府新闻发言人徐威对外表示，所有中外人员，凡是在进入上海之日前14天内，有过重点国家或地区旅居史的，一律实施为期14天的居家或集中隔离健康观察。
On the afternoon of March 3, Xu Weiwei, director of the Shanghai Municipal Government Information Office and a spokesman for the municipal government, said that all Chinese and foreign personnel who had a history of sojourn in key countries or regions within 14 days before the date of entry into Shanghai were subjected to a 14-day stay-at-home or centralized quarantine health observation.
3月4日，海关总署对外透露，截止到3月3日，全国海关共发现有发热症状的入境旅客227例，疑似病例63例，海关采样检测和排查转运处共检出核酸阳性病例5例，其中上海有4例。
On March 4, the General Administration of Customs disclosed that, as of March 3, 227 incoming passengers with fever symptoms and 63 suspected cases had been detected by the Customs and Excise Department.
随后，上海市卫生健康委新闻发言人郑锦透露，目前上海海关移交的4名核酸检测阳性的旅客均确诊为新冠肺炎，其中2例为中国宁夏籍，1例为中国青海籍，1例为中国甘肃籍，均在伊朗留学，均自伊朗德黑兰出发，经泰国曼谷转机后分别于3月2日晚和3月3日凌晨抵达上海浦东国际机场，入关后即被送至集中隔离点观察。
At present, two of them were Chinese nationals of Ningxia, one was of Qinghai nationality of China and one was of Gansu nationality of China. All of them were studying in Iran. They all started from Tehran and arrived at Pudong International Airport in Shanghai in the evening of March 2 and the early morning of March 3 respectively.
上海海关关员登临来自重点地区的航班。
Shanghai Customs officials board flights from key regions.
图片来源：上海海关为了防止境外疫情输入，在上海浦东和虹桥两大机场，上海海关从严开展了针对入境旅客的疫情防控工作。
Source: In order to prevent the importation of overseas epidemic diseases, Shanghai Customs has strictly carried out epidemic prevention and control against inbound passengers at the two major airports of Pudong and Hongqiao in Shanghai.
每个国际航班旅客下飞机进入入境大厅前，需要先进入等候区，完成纸质或电子版《健康申明卡》的填写，内容包括14天内居住或旅行过的国家和地区，在此期间是否接触过新冠肺炎患者等。
Before disembarking an aircraft into the arrival hall, every passenger on an international flight must enter a waiting area to complete a physical or electronic "health declaration card," including information on the country or territory where they have lived or travelled within 14 days, and whether they have been exposed to patients with pneumonia during this period.
工作人员核对完旅客的《健康申明卡》后，会引导旅客逐一进入测温通道，通过红外测温仪、耳温计或测温枪等设备对出入境人员进行体温监测，对体温异常者用水银温度计进行复测（必要时至少测量2次，取较高值记录），有发热或呼吸道症状的旅客会被直接带到医学排查室进行排查。
Upon completion of the check-up of a passenger's health declaration card, passengers are directed to a temperature measuring channel, temperature monitoring is carried out through infrared thermometers, ear thermometers or thermostats, mercury thermometers are re-measured (at least 2 times if necessary, higher value records are taken), and passengers with fever or respiratory symptoms are taken directly to the medical screening room for screening.
同时，海关关员在做好防护的前提下，会对满足流行病学史且符合发热和/或呼吸道症状的人员采集鼻咽拭子和/或咽拭子样本，或采集血液、深咳痰等样本，送至实验室进行检测。
At the same time, subject to protection, customs officers collect samples of nasopharyngeal swabs and / or swabs from persons with a history of epidemiology who meet the fever and / or respiratory symptoms, or collect samples of blood, cough up sputum, etc., and send them to the laboratory for testing.
对于14天内有过韩国、意大利、伊朗、日本等国家旅行和居住史但体温正常的旅客，上海海关工作人员会为其安排一条远离普通旅客的线路，将其集中带离机场，实施为期14天的居家或集中健康观察。
For passengers with normal body temperature with a history of travel and residence in Korea, Italy, Iran, Japan and other countries within 14 days, Shanghai Customs staff will arrange a route away from ordinary passengers and take them away from the airport for a period of 14 days for in-home or centralized health observation.
而对判定的确诊病例、疑似病例、有症状人员、密切接触者“四类人员”，则一律按照联防联控机制要求落实转运、隔离、留观等防控措施。
For confirmed cases, suspected cases, symptomatic people, close contacts "four categories of personnel," in accordance with the requirements of the Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism to implement transit, isolation, observation and other preventive and control measures.
上海海关关员对染疫嫌疑航空器实施检疫处理。
The Shanghai customs officers exercise quarantine treatment on the aircraft suspected of having contracted the epidemic.
图片来源：上海海关除严格筛查入境人员外，上海浦东和虹桥机场对旅客使用较频繁的航站楼洗手间、母婴室、电梯、自动扶梯等设施以及其他人员密集区域做到每小时消毒一次；对人工和自助值机柜台、现场问讯柜台、旅客座位等设施每天至少消毒三次，高峰期每2小时消毒一次；对旅客必经的登机廊桥实行实时消毒，保障每架次航班均消毒一次。
In addition to strict screening of incoming passengers, Shanghai Pudong and Hongqiao airports disinfect passengers at least three times a day and every 2 hours during peak periods at facilities such as lavatories, mother-and-child rooms, elevators, escalators and other crowded areas.
机场集团相关负责人表示，目前，浦东机场每天对航站楼以及卫星厅内276间卫生间、母婴室和243个旅客休息区域持续消毒；虹桥机场平均每天消毒面积超过45万平方米，相当于60多个足球场。
At present, Pudong Airport disinfects 276 bathrooms, mother-and-child rooms and 243 passenger rest areas in Pudong Airport on a daily basis, while Hongqiao Airport disinfects an average of more than 450,000 square meters a day, equivalent to more than 60 football fields, the group said.
为保持公共区域空气流通，上海机场集团在确保温度适宜的前提下，还加大了4座航站楼、1座卫星厅及交通中心中央空调系统的新风输送量，适时打开建筑物玻璃幕墙上的侧窗，保持楼内通风良好。
In order to maintain the air circulation in the public area, the Shanghai Airport Group has increased the throughput of four terminals, one satellite office and the central air-conditioning system of the traffic centre, while keeping the ventilation in the building well by opening the side windows on the glass curtain wall of the building in time.
机场对所有空调过滤器和滤网全部完成了一次深度消毒，并且启用了新增的1300多套紫外线消毒灯具进行常态化消毒。
The airport has completed a thorough disinfection of all air-conditioning filters and filters, and more than 1,300 new ultraviolet disinfection lamps have been introduced for normal disinfection.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
上海机场口岸防境外疫情输入，入境人员100%申报健康情况。
Shanghai airport port to prevent the importation of epidemic diseases, 100% of the entry personnel declare health status.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "上海机场口岸防境外疫情输入，入境人员100%申报健康情况";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; 100%.
var msg_desc = "上海海关对于14天内有过韩国、意大利、伊朗、日本等国家旅行和居住史但体温正常的旅客，会为其安排一条远离普通旅客的线路，将其集中带离机场，实施为期14天的居家或集中健康观察。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; The Shanghai customs service arranges a route away from the airport for passengers with a normal body temperature and a history of travel and residence in Korea, Italy, Iran, Japan and other countries within 14 days, for a 14-day stay-at-home or centralized health observation.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
