口述实录 | 离我们这个团解散、团长“解甲归田”的日子，快了。
The day when our regiment was dissolved and its leader returned to the field was nearly complete.
刘惠玲。
Liu Huiling.
新民周刊                      。
Xinmin Weekly.
新民周刊。
Xinmin Weekly.
深度和角度——这就是我们能做的。
Depth and angle - that's what we can do.
。
.
也是突然发现，我们的门楣窗帷、院墙楼道，我们的一饭一菜，居然与我们的国家有如此密切的联系。
It was also discovered suddenly that our lintel curtains, our courtyard corridors, our meals and dishes are so closely linked to our country.
文 |刘惠玲我家住汉口宝丰路交通小区，从2月中旬小区封闭管理至今，我当志愿者菜篮子分发团“团长”也快满月了。
Liu Huiling, my family living in the Baofeng Road traffic area in Hankou, has been under close management since mid-February, and I am about to reach the full moon as the head of my volunteer basket distribution group.
武汉封城后的20天，即2月11日，随着防控疫情的需要，主要是实行“外防输出，内防扩散”，武汉开始封小区。
Wuhan sealed the city 20 days after February 11, with the need to prevent and control the epidemic, mainly the implementation of "external defense output, internal non-proliferation," Wuhan began to seal the community.
武汉市有3000多个小区，很多小区还是开放型的，网格封闭，估算下来，不考虑三班倒，志愿者总人数也有五万之众。
Wuhan City has more than 3,000 small areas, many or open, closed grid, estimate, do not take into account three shifts, the total number of volunteers are also 50,000.
我们交通小区招募志愿者,“原汤化原食”地进行自治性封闭，大家彼此知根知底，效果不错。
We traffic community recruitment volunteers, "original soup raw food" autonomous closure, we know each other, good results.
工作的性质是引导人员进出，登记每个家庭的需要。
The nature of the work is to guide people in and out and to register the needs of each family.
我是第一个出来站岗的，成为五万分之一，之后又担任了志愿者菜篮子分发团的团长。
I was the first to stand guard, one in 50,000, and then head of the volunteer basket distribution team.
一开始，主要工作是查看核实因防疫需要的小区人员进出信息，测量每个人体温，引导人进出消毒鞋底等。
Initially, the main work is to check the entry and exit of the community because of epidemic prevention information, measure the temperature of each person, guide people in and out of disinfectant shoes, etc.
到了登记每户人家的需求，汇总居家必需品——那就显得五花八门，但大多数又确实是日常生活离不开的东西，一下子工作量就上去了。
When it comes to registering the needs of each household and assembling the household necessities - that's all very well, but most are really essential to everyday life, and all at once the workload comes up.
2月11日起，武汉开始封小区，我家小区也不例外封小区，意味着平时所有的生活物资进出方式要暂时改变了。
From February 11, Wuhan began to seal the small area, my small area is no exception, meaning that the normal way of life and material in and out of the temporary change.
这样一来，一开始很多人家的反应就像是凉水甩进了热油锅里，一下子炸开了。
At first, the reaction of many people is like cold water into a hot frying pan, suddenly burst open.
都知道我们武汉人的耿直脾气，爱吃辣椒，爱吃热干面，待人真诚不带水分，遇事也少冷静。
We all know that we Wuhan people's honest straight temper, love to eat chilli, love to eat hot and dry noodles, treat people sincerely do not moisture, also less calm in the event.
对上心了，两肋插刀赴汤蹈火；遇上烦心事，也难藏着掖着，不迂回打马虎眼，面对面直接就给你干起来。
They go through fire and water in both sides of the ribs. They are hard to follow, don't wiggle or wiggle, and do it face to face.
已经在家闷了不短的时间了，小区一封，头疼脑热或原本有各种不适的人要看病，老人小孩急需用药，关键是天天开门七宗事，柴、米、油、盐、酱、醋、茶，这吃喝的事儿可是耽搁不得的。
I have been at home for a long time, a small area, headache, fever or all kinds of discomfort people to see the doctor, the elderly and children are in urgent need of medication, the key is to open seven things every day, firewood, rice, oil, salt, sauce, vinegar, tea, this food and drink can not be delayed.
平常不觉得缺什么，既封城又封小区，客观加上主观，忽然感觉平常不那么缺少的生活用品，一下奇缺起来。
Usually do not feel what is lacking, both closed the city and sealed the community, objective plus subjective, suddenly feel the ordinary and not so short of daily necessities, a critical shortage.
我穿上白色防护服，担任起小区志愿者，需要仔细核对清点各家物资需求我家所在的交通小区在汉口，但工作单位的生产基地还在300多公里以外鄂西北的襄阳市，具体位置在汉江上的崔家营河段。
I put on white protective clothing, as community volunteers, need to carefully check and count the needs of the transport community where my family is located in Hankou, but the work unit production base is more than 300 kilometers away in Xiangyang City, northwest of Hubei Province, specifically in the Han River Cui Jiaying River section.
那是我们的船舶通航和水力发电基地。
That's our shipping and hydroelectric base.
当许多企业开始在春节后筹备复工复产时，我们单位的同事都在感慨——作为湖北省交通厅下属二级单位的崔家营航电枢纽管理处，可是从来不存在复工复产之说，因为我们从来就没有停工停产过。
When many enterprises began to prepare for the resumption of work after the Spring Festival, our colleagues in the unit are feeling - as a second-tier unit under the Hubei Transport Department Cui Jiaying Aviation and Telecommunications Hubei Province, but there has never been a resumption of work, because we have never stopped production.
1年12个月，1月4周，每周7天通航，每天24小时发电不休。
One year, 12 months, 4 weeks, 7 days a week, 24 hours a day to generate electricity.
我可以不无自豪地带上一句的是，武汉封城封小区，却绝不可能封航道运行和发电生产；而且，我们交通航电人做到了大小封闭的41天中全天候运行，干群无一例感染，平均每日发电超100万度，给祖国的肌体增添“新鲜血液”。
I am proud to say that the wuhan sealed off the city, but never the waterway operation and power generation production; moreover, we traffic navigators have achieved the size of the closed 41-day round-the-clock operation, dry groups, an average of more than 1 million degrees per day to add "fresh blood" to the Chinese body.
我在每天做志愿者工作前，总是通过视频或单位工作微信群，适时连接奋战在汉江上的交通航电同仁，问他们的生产和生活环节。
I do volunteer work every day, always through video or unit work micro-groups, timely connectivity in the Han River on the traffic and electricity colleagues, ask them about their production and life.
在一线指挥的书记总是让我放宽心，全力做好自己家门口的“团长工作”。
In the front-line command of the secretary always let me relax, do a good job in front of their own "commander work."
我们同饮一江水，每天都要相互鼓励加油一番，互道珍重祝福，然后，才是进入我的小区菜篮子志愿者分发团的“团长”角色。
We drank a river together, cheering each other up every day, sharing our blessings, and then being the "leader" of the volunteer food basket distribution group that entered my neighborhood.
我和志愿者们把好小区关口儿子看我忙，主动申请接替我站岗值班，成为小区最年轻的抗“疫”站岗志愿者之一。
My volunteers and I will be good community Guankou son to see me busy, volunteered to replace me on guard duty, become one of the youngest anti-" epidemic "station volunteers.
年轻人嗜睡，他平日清晨7点还在梦乡，现在要顶老妈站岗值班了，此时的7点已然是防护服、口罩、手套全副武装，在小区门口一站就是好几个小时，坚守我们志愿者自发的铁的纪律。
The young sleeper, who usually sleeps at 7 a. m., is now on duty, wearing protective clothing, face masks, gloves, and standing at the gate for hours, sticking to the iron discipline of our volunteers.
这也让我颇为欣慰，真是艰难困苦，玉汝于成！但我更急切夸耀的，还是我的团员们。
It was a great comfort and hardship for me, but it was my regiment I was more eager to boast about.
我是第一批志愿者，相对来说，志愿者工作最繁琐并容易出纰漏的，就是我被选举为“团长”的菜篮子志愿者分发团。
I was one of the first volunteers, and one of the most tedious and prone to failings in volunteer work was the basket-volunteer distribution group I was elected "colonel."
就说相对简单的超市套餐，用手机微信群接龙的形式登记，汇总各家需求，收集各家付款。
Say relatively simple supermarket set meal, use the form of mobile phone micro-group to register, aggregate the needs of families, collect payments.
超市套餐送来后，难题也来了。
After the supermarket set meal arrives, the difficulty also comes.
分发志愿者先是清点、验收、入库，然后引导领用物资者都彼此一米开外距离排队。
The distribution volunteers first counted, checked and stored, and then guided the recipients to line up one metre away from each other.
因电梯间的狭小空间最容易传染病菌，大家回家尽量走楼梯，实在太高楼层需电梯者，也要耐心排队等候，确保一人一梯。
Due to the small space in the elevator, we are prone to infective bacteria. We should take the stairs as far as possible. Those who need elevators on too high floors should also wait patiently in line to ensure one person at a time.
还有家里只有老人或发热生病等不能出来的，那就要我们一一逐家逐户送。
There are only old people or fever at home, such as illness can not come out, then we have to send house by house.
有些老人不会微信支付，就由不住在小区的子女微信采购，但领取时，子女们也代替不了，也必须由我们志愿者来完成。
Some elderly people do not pay by letter, by the children who do not live in the community to buy, but when the children can not replace, we must volunteer to do.
一般中午发放套餐，完成后志愿者自己回家吃饭，时间都在下午两点之后。
General midday distribution of packages, after the completion of the volunteers home to eat their own time after 2 p.m.
下午发放的物资，那就要到天黑才能全部发放到各家，再照顾自己的肚皮。
Afternoon distribution of supplies, that will be until dark before all the distribution to the families, and then take care of their belly.
每天有几百户要分发，多时达9种套餐，上千份物资。
Every day, hundreds of families have to distribute, up to nine sets of meals, thousands of supplies.
有些货物紧缺，如罗森豆制品，必须先得保障火神山、雷神山等医院的供应，有时一个套餐要等五六天才到，有些订户都不记得了。
Some goods are in short supply, such as Rosen bean products, must first guarantee the fire god mountain, Lei Shenshan and other hospitals supply, sometimes a package of five or six days to arrive, some subscribers do not remember.
开始分发时，有的人不记得购物序号和具体套餐。
At the beginning of the distribution, some people did not remember the serial numbers and specific packages.
我的策略是，自己打点“埋伏”，平日总是每个套餐都订上，随时准备应对发错了，就把自己的套餐供出来，填上。
My strategy is to play "ambush", usually set every set meal on, ready to deal with the wrong, on their own set meal out, fill in.
打包好等待分发的物资我们15个人的小团，多数是女性。
Wrap things up for distribution We have a small group of 15 people, mostly women.
负责采购的罗红燕，身体虚弱，原本在省抗疫指挥部安排她回家休息的，可她仍每天为采购合适的套餐忙到深夜。
Luo Hongyan, who was in charge of the procurement, was frail and had arranged for her to go home for rest at the Provincial Anti-epidemic Command.
武汉市政府有10元10斤5个品种的蔬菜套餐，用以供应困难群体，由政府每份补贴25元。
The Wuhan municipal government has 10 yuan 10 jin and 5 varieties of vegetable packages for supply to needy groups, which are subsidized by the government at 25 yuan each.
她总是和大家沟通一致，把这些指标留给最需要的群体。
She always communicates with others, leaving the indicators to those who need them most.
高斌是高速公路纪委书记，每次去路上指挥督促工作完成后，回到小区就直接参加分发团分发并兼任大家的摄影师。
Gao Bin is the Secretary of the expressway disciplinary committee, every time the road to supervise the completion of the work, back to the district directly participate in the distribution of the distribution team and concurrently everyone's photographer.
他总说，多少代人不遇的疫情让我们给遇到了，那就得留点影像资料给自己，也给后人……志愿者在分送物资我们这个小区别具特色之处，是享受厅级待遇的有31户。
He always said that how many generations of rare disease let us encounter, that we have to leave some video information for themselves, but also for posterity... Volunteers in the distribution of materials in our community unique features, is that the treatment of the Department of 31 families.
前段时间，媒体曝光的那个没有高干病房不上医院的司法厅退休厅官，简直是败了武汉人的门风，给武汉人脸上抹黑。
Some time ago, the media exposure of the Department of Justice did not go to the hospital high-stem ward retired officials, is simply defeated Wuhan door style, the face of Wuhan.
其实武汉人没有这么“刁”。
In fact, Wuhan people do not so "Diao."
我们这个小区，不论是在职厅长还是退休的厅级领导，都主动捐钱捐物，尤其是做好家人安心宅家工作，由此可以把省下的口罩、手套全部捐给社区。
Our community, whether in office or retired department heads, have volunteered to donate money and goods, especially to help family members at home, so that they can donate all the masks and gloves saved to the community.
他们也都会抽空来站岗，防护服、口罩、手套，一样不会少。
They will also find time to stand guard, protective clothing, masks, gloves, no less.
有时，七十多岁的老领导还幽默地对我行举手礼：“报告刘团长！”我也不客气地笑着给他派活。
Sometimes, the 70-year-old leader also humourously saluted me: "Report to the commander Liu!" I also grinned unkindly to give him a job.
我在分拣物资等待分发“春风又绿江南岸”。
I am sorting materials waiting for the distribution of "spring breeze and green Jiangnan shore."
晴川历历的汉阳树和芳草萋萋的鹦鹉洲，都应和上了千年前诗人崔颢的诗情，将庚子春意往纵深推送，我们各自脸上的口罩这方特殊通行证终究会摘除；那时，我们在欣喜雀跃之际，也多多少少会心生不合时宜的依依之情吧？我们的团当然会解散，团长自动“解甲归田”，但我们一个战壕中结下的情谊和美好情愫，一定会久久氤氲在我们的记忆深处。
When we exult, our regiment will be dissolved, the regiment will be dissolved, the regiment will be released automatically, but the friendship and friendship formed in one of our trenches will remain in our memory for a long time.
也是突然发现，我们的门楣窗帷、院墙楼道，我们的一饭一菜，居然与我们的国家有如此密切的联系。
It was also discovered suddenly that our lintel curtains, our courtyard corridors, our meals and dishes are so closely linked to our country.
这些日子里，给我们每个人激励最大的一句话，就是：武汉胜则湖北胜，湖北胜则中国胜！作为武汉人，我们真切地感受到了，我们的脉搏，与身边的长江完全合拍，丝毫不差。
Wuhan win, Hubei win, Hubei win, China wins! As Wuhan people, we really feel that our pulse is in perfect harmony with the Changjiang River beside us.
征集令阳春三月，万物复苏。
Call for Spring March, all things revive.
在抗击疫情的战斗中，我们迎来了春天，《新民周刊》也迎来了新闻线索和故事征集的第二弹。
In the fight against the epidemic, we ushered in the spring, "New People's Weekly" also ushered in the news clues and the second round of story collection.
如今，经历了一个多月休眠的城市正在逐渐苏醒，各行各业都开始有序复工复产。
Now, after more than a month of dormancy of the city is gradually waking up, all walks of life began to orderly resumption of work.
不论您是企业老板、管理者，还是普通员工；又或者，您是老师、家长，还是学生本人……我们希望了解复工复产复学过程中的困难，或暖心故事。
Whether you're a business owner, a manager, or an employee, or whether you're a teacher, parent, or student... we'd like to know about the difficulties of getting back to work, or a warm heart story.
如果你是抗疫一线的医生护士，疫情期间拍下了珍贵的摄影作品，也欢迎联系我们投稿。
If you are a first-line doctor and nurse against the epidemic, you have taken valuable photographs during the epidemic and are welcome to contact us for contributions.
当然，抗击新冠肺炎疫情的相关故事，我们仍然欢迎。
Of course, the story of fighting the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia is still welcome.
希望广大读者朋友，提供相关线索，说出你的故事，让我们用新闻留存这一切。
I hope that the general reader friends, provide relevant clues, tell your story, let us use the news to retain all this.
《新民周刊》新冠肺炎线索征集值班编辑联系方式（添加时请简要自我介绍）：周一：应　琛　微信号：paulineying0127周二：金　姬　微信号：gepetta周三：黄　祺　微信号：shewen-2020周四：周　洁　微信号：asyouasyou周五：孔冰欣　微信号：kbx875055141周六：吴　雪　微信号：shyshine1105周日：姜浩峰　微信号：jianggeladandong✳如你需要捐赠物资，可与以下两位工作人员联系:王勇：WangYong-SH吴轶君：rommy150708（添加时请注明“捐物资”，方便工作人员快速通过您的申请，谢谢。
WangYong-SH micro-signaling: Zhou Jie micro-signaling: Zhou Jie micro-signals: kbx875055141 Friday: kbx875055141 If you need a donation, please contact: Wang Yong-SH micro-signaling: kbx875055141 Sunday: Wu Xue micro-signal: JiangHao Feng micro-signal: www.jinggeladandong: www.youtheme.cn
）新闻是历史的底稿，你们是历史的见证者。
) News is the manuscript of history, and you are witnesses to it.
期待你的故事、你的线索！▼大家还都在看这些▼·究竟是美国人更为“理性”，还是他们心太大，只有时间能证明·没有妈妈的隔离病房，7月龄小齐齐等11个孩子背后，你没看到的爱和心疼·“落日余晖医生”，还珍藏了另一张照片新民周刊所有平台稿件，未经正式授权一律不得转载、出版、改编或进行与新民周刊版权相关的其他行为，违者必究。
Why don't we all go over there = Why don't we tell you why = Why don't we = Why don't we = Why don't we = Why don't we = Why don't we = Why don't we = Why don't we = Why don't we = Why don't we = Why don't we do this
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
口述实录 | 离我们这个团解散、团长“解甲归田”的日子，快了。
The day when our regiment was dissolved and its leader returned to the field was nearly complete.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "新民周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "口述实录 | 离我们这个团解散、团长“解甲归田”的日子，快了";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; oral information & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; day with our regiment disbanded and our regiment disintegrated.
var msg_desc = "也是突然发现，我们的门楣窗帷、院墙楼道，我们的一饭一菜，居然与我们的国家有如此密切的联系。
var msg _ desc = & quot; and it was also discovered that our lintel curtains, our courtyard corridors, our meals a dish, were so closely connected to our country.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '口述实录｜究竟是美国人更为“理性”，还是他们心太大，只有时间能证明',。
Was it more "rational" or did they have too much heart to justify & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; or whether they were too ambitious.
subject_name: '新民周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '没有妈妈的隔离病房，7月龄小齐齐等11个孩子背后，你没看到的爱和心疼',。
... with no mother's isolation ward, and the love and heartache you never saw at the back of a seven-month-old boy of 11.
subject_name: '新民周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '“落日余晖医生”，还珍藏了另一张照片',。
"Dr. Sun Yuhui" and has another photo & amp; apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;.
subject_name: '新民周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
var title ="新民周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
