泉州欣佳酒店整栋坍塌，装修期间就曾引发承重担忧。
The entire Quanzhou Xinjia Hotel collapsed during the renovation period has caused heavy concern.
吴雪。
Wu Xue.
新民周刊                      。
Xinmin Weekly.
新民周刊。
Xinmin Weekly.
深度和角度——这就是我们能做的。
Depth and angle - that's what we can do.
。
.
酒店在装修期间，就曾引发同楼商户对承重能力的担忧。
During the renovation of the hotel, has caused the same building merchants about load-bearing capacity concerns.
“在酒店装修的那两三个月，因为压力问题，我们一楼商户的门窗玻璃被挤压炸裂五六块，后来觉得房子太危险，我就搬走了。
"During the two or three months of the renovation, the windows and doors of our first-floor merchant were crushed and cracked by five or six pieces because of stress.
”记者 | 吴　雪3月7日，随着莆田、漳州两市11名新冠肺炎住院患者治愈，福建九个设区市实现住院患者清“0”，也正是这一天晚上7点20分左右，泉州市一家隔离酒店——鲤城区欣佳酒店楼体突然发生坍塌，当时伤亡情况不明。
Reporter & # 124; Wu Xue March 7, with Putian, Zhangzhou 11 hospital patients with pneumonia, Fujian nine districts achieved hospital patients "0", that is, about 7: 20 p.m. that night, when the building of Lei Cheng Xinjia, a Quanzhou isolated hotel, suddenly collapsed.
Play现场紧急救援（视频来源：央视新闻）欣佳酒店坍塌现场事故发生后，福建省消防救援总队全勤指挥部迅速出动，调派了厦门、莆田、福州消防救援支队3支重型地震救援队赶赴现场增援。
After the collapse of Xinjia Hotel, the headquarters of the General Fire Rescue Team of Fujian Province dispatched three heavy earthquake rescue teams from Xiamen, Putian and Fuzhou Fire Rescue Detachment to reinforce the scene.
3月８日8点15分，第49名被困者被救出，有生命体征！截止８日8点20分，事故已救出50人，其中2人已无生命体征。
March 8 8: 15, 49 trapped people were rescued, there are signs of life! As of 8: 20 on the 8th, the accident has rescued 50 people, two of them no longer inanimate signs.
发生坍塌事故的泉州鲤城区欣佳快捷酒店，于2018年6月开业，酒店内拥有多种类型客房共计80间。
The Xinjia Express in Quanzhou's Lei City, which collapsed, opened in June 2018 and boasts 80 rooms of various types.
疫情发生后，该酒店被泉州市鲤城区改造为区级医学观察点，用以隔离观察外来人员及密切接触者，目前被困人员人数约70人，具体人数正在进一步核实中。
After the outbreak, the hotel was converted into a district-level medical observation point in Lei City, Quanzhou City, to isolate outsiders and close contacts. The number of people trapped is now about 70 and is being further verified.
Play附近加油站监控拍下了欣佳酒店坍塌一幕7日晚间，距离事发地点不到100米的美福石油加油站店员告诉《新民周刊》，7点20分左右，他正在给一名车主加油，就听到旁边欣佳酒店方向传来一声巨响，地面都在震动，“我开始以为是爆炸了，吓了一跳，转头一看，发现欣佳酒店外立面的钢化玻璃，全部裂开，几秒钟时间，整栋楼就塌了。
At about 7: 20 a.m., while he was cheering a car owner, I heard a loud noise coming from the nearby Xinjia Hotel. "I thought it was an explosion. I looked around and saw the toughened glass on the facade of Xinjia Hotel. It collapsed in a matter of seconds
”而在距离欣佳酒店不到20米的甜品店员工小林回忆了当时坍塌的情景：“事发时，我和两个店员正在吃饭，就听见轰隆隆的声音，像泥石流一样，放下筷子，跑出门一看，酒店已经一片废墟了，大片烟雾腾起，叫人发慌。
Kobayashi, an employee at the sweet shop less than 20 meters from Xinjia, recalls the collapse: "When I was eating with two clerks, I heard a roar of chopsticks and ran out the door.
”小林说，当时她拨打了110和120，在门口站了会儿，就看到一个穿着睡衣的大叔满脸血灰，从废墟里爬了出来，当时看大叔的样子，可能还有点发蒙，大叔说，自己就住在顶楼，事发时正在吃饭，根本不知道怎么回事，瞬间就这样了。
After calling 110 and 120 and standing at the door for a moment, Kobayashi saw a grizzled uncle in pajamas crawling out of the rubble.
消防人员进入坍塌废墟救援小林的店铺刚刚恢复营业两周，她自己也是几天前才知道酒店已经被设为集中隔离点。
Firefighters had just returned to business for two weeks at a shop in the collapsed ruins of the rescue forest, and she herself had learned a few days earlier that the hotel had been set up as a centralized quarantine.
至于具体情况，她也不清楚。
As for the circumstances, she did not know.
一位刚从老家复工回来的欣佳酒店工作人员说，询问了微信群里员工的情况大多没有问题，隔离人员可能会受到影响。
A Xinjia hotel worker who has just returned from work in his hometown said most of the interviews with employees in the microphone group were not problematic and that isolators might be affected.
在一张落款为“高山社区委员会”的通知上显示，2月18日以后入鲤（泉州市鲤城区）人员，实行集中隔离。
According to a notice signed by the Alpine Community Commission, people entering Koi (Lei City of Quanzhou City) after February 18 have been placed under concentrated isolation.
集中隔离对象包括湖北，温州乐清市、泰顺县鹿城区、龙湾区、瑞安市、永嘉县等地人员。
Concentrated isolation objects include Hubei, Wenzhou Yueqing City, Taishun County Lucheng City, Longwan District, Ruian City, Yongjia County personnel.
集中隔离点正是欣佳酒店。
The Centralized Isolation Point is the Xinjia Hotel.
一直奋战在抗“疫”一线的泉州市海都医院陈姓医生，向《新民周刊》记者证实了这一消息。
Dr. Chen surnamed Chen, who has been battling against the plague, confirmed the news to Xinmin Weekly.
泉州市鲤城区发布的集中隔离通知陈医生分析，由于海都医院距离事发地点有40多公里，又不是定点收治医院，考虑到目前新冠病毒的实际情况，这次欣佳酒店的伤者，很可能送往距离较近的三甲医院，或者传染病收治医院。
As the Hedu Hospital is more than 40 kilometers away from the site of the incident and is not a designated hospital, given the current situation of the new crown virus, the injured at Xinjia Hotel are likely to be taken to the nearest triple A hospital, or to an infectious disease hospital.
据媒体消息，伤者被分别送往了泉州第一医院、福建医科大学附属二院、中医院，以及第910医院急诊医学部。
According to media reports, the injured were taken to Quanzhou Hospital No. 1, the Second Hospital of Fujian Medical University, the Chinese Hospital and the Emergency Medical Department of Hospital No. 910.
在距离事发酒店4.7公里的三甲医院泉州市中医医院，是新冠肺炎定点收治医院，开设有定点发热门诊，刚刚于3月2日恢复正常接诊。
Quanzhou City TCM Hospital, 4.7 km from the hotel, is the designated hospital for the treatment of Newcastle Pneumonia, with a designated fever clinic, and has just returned to normal treatment on 2 March.
急诊科值班接线的护士告诉《新民周刊》，7日晚间7点半以后，医院确实陆续接到了来自欣佳酒店的一些伤者，目前正在抢救中，无法提供人员名单，没有时间接受采访。
A nurse on duty at the emergency department told Xinmin Weekly that after 7: 30 pm on the 7th, the hospital did receive a number of injured people from Xinjia Hotel.
不过，据记者从泉州市温州商会了解到的最新消息，该商会的注册会员中，有7人被隔离在泉州欣佳酒店，截至昨晚，有1人被救出，伤势不重。
However, according to the latest news from the Wenzhou Chamber of Commerce in Quanzhou, seven of the chamber's registered members were quarantined at the Xin Jia Hotel in Quanzhou. As of last night, one person had been rescued from serious condition.
Play3月8日凌晨一点多，一个孩子被救出，送往医院救治一名伤者被救出，用担架转运到救护车记者还了解到，欣佳酒店楼体倒塌时，里面还有值班的医护人员。
March 8th, more than 1: 00 a.m., a child was rescued, sent to hospital to treat one of the injured was rescued, a stretcher was transferred to the ambulance reporters also learned that when the Xinjia hotel building collapsed, there were medical staff on duty.
泉州万翔微创医院工作人员对此给予证实。
Quanzhou Wanxiang minimally invasive hospital staff to give confirmation of this.
昨晚，医院负责人已经赶赴事发现场，截至目前，医院暂未接收到酒店内值班医护人员的信息。
Last night, the head of the hospital had rushed to the scene of the incident, so far, the hospital has not received the hotel duty medical staff information.
据消防人员现场勘察，初步判断，欣佳酒店倒塌的方向，并非单向垮塌、整体倒塌，而是两侧垮塌，中间弓起。
According to the fire brigade site survey, preliminary judgement, Xinjia Hotel collapsed in the direction, not one-way collapse, collapse, but the two sides collapsed, the middle bow.
而记者从欣佳酒店林姓经理口中得知，出事前不久，酒店房东曾对房屋进行过和地基相关的施工。
The reporter from Xinjia hotel Lin surname manager learned that shortly before the accident, the landlord of the hotel had carried out the building and the foundation-related construction.
那么，坍塌原因是否与地基有关？据便利店店主回忆，此前他曾多次到欣佳酒店里给客人送货，印象中，欣佳酒店一共是6层半，最顶上有半层的钢结构。
So did the collapse have anything to do with the foundation? Convenience store owners recall that he had made several deliveries to the Xinjia hotel, which he remembered was six-and-a-half floors in all, with a half-story steel top.
“这个酒店不属于高档酒店，平均住一晚只要100多块钱。
"It's not a high-end hotel and it costs just over $100 a night on average.
”不过，这位店主也说，印象中，没有听说过该酒店近期有过施工和装修。
However, the owner also said he was under the impression that he had not heard of any recent construction or renovation work at the hotel.
欣佳酒店走廊一名曾在酒店楼下做生意的商户则介绍，这栋钢结构建筑，宽约120米，进深约30米。
The steel structure, about 120m wide and about 30m deep, was introduced by a businessman who had been doing business downstairs.
地板也是水泥石子浇灌而成。
The floor is also made of cement stones.
一层为汽车维修、销售店铺，二层至六层为足浴店和欣佳酒店，七层为员工宿舍。
One floor for vehicle maintenance, sales shops, two to six floors for foot bathing shop and Xinjia Hotel, seven floors for staff quarters.
“2017年之前，这栋建筑每一层都是一个开阔的大厅。
"Before 2017, each floor of the building will have an open hall.
楼上要开欣佳酒店，2017年开始拉来水泥和砖，把宽敞的大厅砌墙，隔成了一个一个的客房，2018年酒店开始营业。
Upstairs to Kaixin Jia Hotel, in 2017 began to pull cement and brick, spacious hall walls, partitioned into a room, 2018 hotel open.
”记者在百度地图上搜索显示，欣佳酒店所在的南环路1688号，的确有华胜奔驰宝马奥迪维修店。
A search on Baidu's map shows that the South Ring Road, 1688, where the Xinjia Hotel is located, does have a Mercedes-Benz BMW Audi service shop.
在欣佳酒店图片上可以看到一层聚集了大量汽车销售机构，倒塌建筑物东侧一层是一家名为“泉州好车汇”的二手车销售门店。
A large number of automobile sales organizations are seen in the pictures of Xinjia Hotel. On the east side of the collapsed building is a second-hand car sales store called Quanzhou Good Car Transfer.
但关于上述酒店建设分布情况，尚未能从酒店方核实。
But regarding the above hotel construction distribution, has not been able to verify from the hotel side.
事发前的欣佳酒店，一楼全是汽车销售不过该商户也透露，事实上，酒店在装修期间，就曾引发同楼商户对承重能力的担忧。
Before the incident Xinjia Hotel, the ground floor is full of car sales but the merchant also revealed that, in fact, the hotel renovation period, has caused the same floor merchants about load-bearing capacity.
“在酒店装修的那两三个月，因为压力问题，我们一楼商户的门窗玻璃被挤压炸裂五六块，后来觉得房子太危险，我就搬走了。
"During the two or three months of the renovation, the windows and doors of our first-floor merchant were crushed and cracked by five or six pieces because of stress.
”亦有福建朋友透露，事发时，酒店一二层要改成4S店售车，装修中敲掉了承重墙，致使整栋楼坍塌。
"Fujian friends also revealed that the incident, the hotel to change one or two floors to 4S shop sales, decoration of the load-bearing walls, causing the whole building collapsed.
关于坍塌原因，有人猜测还有另一种可能，该酒店是否存在混用海沙建造，因海沙含有天然盐，具有很强的腐蚀性，混有海沙的水泥不到五年就会腐蚀钢筋，直接导致预应力、强度、硬度和耐久性下降，严重影响建筑物的使用寿命。
With regard to the causes of the collapse, there is speculation as to whether the hotel was built with mixed seashore sand, which contains natural salts and is highly corrosive. Cement mixed with sand will corrode steel bars in less than five years, leading directly to a decrease in prestress, strength, hardness and durability, and seriously affecting the useful life of the building.
2011年，发生在广东汕尾的塌楼事故，就是因违规使用未经处理的海沙致6死7伤，至今仍是一种警醒。
In 2011, the collapse of a building in Shanwei, Guangdong, caused six deaths and seven injuries from the illegal use of untreated sea sand, and remains a wake-up call.
目前，事故坍塌原因还未有定论。
At present, the cause of accident collapse has not been determined.
据天眼查信息，鲤城区欣佳旅馆于2018年3月28日登记成立，法定代表人为杨金锵。
According to the day eye information, Lei Cheng Yan Jia Hotel was registered on March 28, 2018, the legal representative is Yang Jinqiang.
该企业曾于2019年8月19日将经营场所从泉州市鲤城区常泰街道上村社区南环路1688号6楼变更为同一地址的“地上一层大厅、四层至六层”。
On 19 August 2019, the company changed its premises from the 6th floor of 1688 South Ring Road, Shangcun Street, Changtai Street, Yicheng District, Quanzhou City, to the "Ground Floor Hall, 4th to 6th Floor" at the same address.
天眼查显示，欣佳酒店曾有过经营异常和行政处罚工商资料显示，该酒店还曾在2018年11月和2019年12月因“未按规定办理住宿登记”，受到行政罚款责令立即整改处理。
Tian Yin Jia Hotel has been shown to have business information on unusual and administrative sanctions, the hotel in November 2018 and December 2019 for "not registered the required accommodation," the administrative fines ordered immediate rectification.
2019年7月，因未按规定报送年度报告，被列入经营异常名录。
In July 2019, it was included in the list of operating anomalies for failure to submit the required annual report.
截至记者发稿，事故原因仍在调查当中。
As of the press release, the cause of the accident is still under investigation.
征集令阳春三月，万物复苏。
Call for Spring March, all things revive.
在抗击疫情的战斗中，我们迎来了春天，《新民周刊》也迎来了新闻线索和故事征集的第二弹。
In the fight against the epidemic, we ushered in the spring, "New People's Weekly" also ushered in the news clues and the second round of story collection.
如今，经历了一个多月休眠的城市正在逐渐苏醒，各行各业都开始有序复工复产。
Now, after more than a month of dormancy of the city is gradually waking up, all walks of life began to orderly resumption of work.
不论您是企业老板、管理者，还是普通员工；又或者，您是老师、家长，还是学生本人……我们希望了解复工复产复学过程中的困难，或暖心故事。
Whether you're a business owner, a manager, or an employee, or whether you're a teacher, parent, or student... we'd like to know about the difficulties of getting back to work, or a warm heart story.
如果你是抗疫一线的医生护士，疫情期间拍下了珍贵的摄影作品，也欢迎联系我们投稿。
If you are a first-line doctor and nurse against the epidemic, you have taken valuable photographs during the epidemic and are welcome to contact us for contributions.
当然，抗击新冠肺炎疫情的相关故事，我们仍然欢迎。
Of course, the story of fighting the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia is still welcome.
希望广大读者朋友，提供相关线索，说出你的故事，让我们用新闻留存这一切。
I hope that the general reader friends, provide relevant clues, tell your story, let us use the news to retain all this.
《新民周刊》新冠肺炎线索征集值班编辑联系方式（添加时请简要自我介绍）：周一：应　琛　微信号：paulineying0127周二：金　姬　微信号：gepetta周三：黄　祺　微信号：shewen-2020周四：周　洁　微信号：asyouasyou周五：孔冰欣　微信号：kbx875055141周六：吴　雪　微信号：shyshine1105周日：姜浩峰　微信号：jianggeladandong✳如你需要捐赠物资，可与以下两位工作人员联系:王勇：WangYong-SH吴轶君：rommy150708（添加时请注明“捐物资”，方便工作人员快速通过您的申请，谢谢。
WangYong-SH micro-signaling: Zhou Jie micro-signaling: Zhou Jie micro-signals: kbx875055141 Friday: kbx875055141 If you need a donation, please contact: Wang Yong-SH micro-signaling: kbx875055141 Sunday: Wu Xue micro-signal: JiangHao Feng micro-signal: www.jinggeladandong: www.youtheme.cn
）新闻是历史的底稿，你们是历史的见证者。
) News is the manuscript of history, and you are witnesses to it.
期待你的故事、你的线索！▼大家还都在看这些▼·究竟是美国人更为“理性”，还是他们心太大，只有时间能证明·没有妈妈的隔离病房，7月龄小齐齐等11个孩子背后，你没看到的爱和心疼·“落日余晖医生”，还珍藏了另一张照片新民周刊所有平台稿件，未经正式授权一律不得转载、出版、改编或进行与新民周刊版权相关的其他行为，违者必究。
Why don't we all go over there = Why don't we tell you why = Why don't we = Why don't we = Why don't we = Why don't we = Why don't we = Why don't we = Why don't we = Why don't we = Why don't we = Why don't we do this
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
泉州欣佳酒店整栋坍塌，装修期间就曾引发承重担忧。
The entire Quanzhou Xinjia Hotel collapsed during the renovation period has caused heavy concern.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "新民周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "泉州欣佳酒店整栋坍塌，装修期间就曾引发承重担忧";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; during the renovation.
var msg_desc = "事故原因仍在调查当中。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; The cause of the accident is still under investigation.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '口述实录｜究竟是美国人更为“理性”，还是他们心太大，只有时间能证明',。
Was it more "rational" or did they have too much heart to justify & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; or whether they were too ambitious.
subject_name: '新民周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '没有妈妈的隔离病房，7月龄小齐齐等11个孩子背后，你没看到的爱和心疼',。
... with no mother's isolation ward, and the love and heartache you never saw at the back of a seven-month-old boy of 11.
subject_name: '新民周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '“落日余晖医生”，还珍藏了另一张照片',。
"Dr. Sun Yuhui" and has another photo & amp; apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;.
subject_name: '新民周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
var title ="新民周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
