疫情冲击波：手机渠道商损失连锁反应。
Epidemic Shockwave: Cell phone channel losses chain reaction.
陈潇潇 王凤。
Chen Xiaoxiao Wang Feng.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
对于2019年就陷入负增长的中国手机零售市场来说，这场疫情无疑是雪上加霜。
For China's mobile-phone retail market, which has been in negative growth since 2019, the epidemic is no doubt worse.
相对线下渠道的全面收缩，线上渠道亦受影响文 |《财经》记者 陈潇潇 王凤编辑 | 谢丽容往年春节期间，从过完除夕到正月十五，历来是手机销售的旺季。
Online channels have also been affected by the overall contraction of off-line channels. Chen Xiaoxiao, a journalist with Caijing, has traditionally been the peak season for mobile phone sales during the Spring Festival, from New Year's Eve to the fifteenth day of the first month.
手机零售商王立原本预计今年春节完成相当于平常三倍的销售额，大赚一笔。
Wang Li, a cellphone retailer, had expected to make a tidy sum of money by tripling sales this Spring Festival.
但大年初四一觉醒来，他发现“全没了”。
But when he woke up in the middle of the year, he found it was all gone.
武汉疫情蔓延引发全国性抗击行动以来，应各地政府要求，国内多数大型零售场所暂停营业。
Wuhan epidemic caused by the spread of the national response to the request of local governments, most of the country's large retail establishments have been closed.
在河北廊坊市，王立运营的是一家手机零售连锁店，每家店不过几十平方米，也接到了闭店通知。
In Langfang, Hebei, Wang Li is operating a retail chain of mobile phones, each store just a few dozen square meters, also received notice of closure.
他在廊坊市万达广场的门店暂停营业至2月9日，下至县区的十几家零售店也掩上了门。
His store in Langfang's Wanda Square was closed until February 9, and a dozen retail outlets down to the county level were closed.
业界人士感叹，新型冠状病毒将大部人关进了家门，手机在线下销不动了。
Industry personnel lament that the new coronavirus will most people locked up at home, mobile phone online can not be sold.
往年正月初五起，王立都忙到不可开交，但今年他不得不强制性休假。
In the first five months of last year, Wang Li was too busy, but this year he had to take compulsory leave.
整个春节旺季，不仅没有进账，由于房租和员工的支出，一下就损失了200多万。
During the Spring Festival season, more than 2 million people were lost as a result of rent and employee expenses.
区县手机零售是销售渠道的毛细血管，受疫情影响最快，也最直接。
District and county mobile phone retail sales channels of capillaries, the fastest affected by the epidemic, but also the most direct.
大型零售渠道的日子也不好过。
The big retail channels have had a rough time, too.
一家全国性手机连锁渠道告诉《财经》，开店至少要到三月，整个一季度都喝西北风。
Caijing, a national cellphone chain, told Caijing it would be open until at least March and drink northwest for the first quarter.
即使是智能手机行业龙头苹果也难以幸免。
Even Apple, the biggest smartphone maker, is not immune.
2月1日，苹果公司宣布，基于近期公共卫生与预防的考虑，中国大陆所有零售店将关闭至 2月9日24时。
On February 1, Apple announced that all retail stores in mainland China would be closed until 2400 hours on February 9, citing public health and prevention concerns.
第三方数据机构SA分析师周怡雯认为，“苹果临时关闭所有大陆零售店，短期内会对其中国市场份额造成影响。
"Apple's temporary closure of all mainland retail stores will have an impact on its market share in China in the short term," said Jay Chow, an analyst with third-party data firm SA.
”刚过去的2020财年第一季度中，苹果大中华区市场获得了两位数的增长，营收为135.78亿美元占其总营收近15%。
In the last quarter of fiscal year 2020, Apple's Greater China market posted double-digit growth, with revenues of $13,578 million, or nearly 15% of its total revenue.
中国手机销量的七成由线下零售渠道构成，是这次疫情冲击的主体。
Seventy percent of China's mobile phone sales are made up of offline retail channels, the main part of the epidemic.
其余三成由线上销售贡献。
The remaining 30% is contributed by online sales.
多位业内人士预计，疫情导致经济收紧，老百姓消费意愿会低于往年，即使部分消费者愿意转到线上消费，对整体销量的拉升，也非常有限。
Many in the industry expect the situation to tighten and consumers to spend less than in previous years, even if some consumers are willing to switch to online spending, and overall sales are likely to rise only marginally.
不仅是需求端，疫情冲击波还袭击了供应端。
Not only on the demand side, but also on the supply side.
多位手机代工企业对《财经》表达了担忧，因复工延期等原因，产能已经受到了不同程度的影响。
A number of mobile-phone companies have expressed concern about Caijing, which has seen capacity affected to varying degrees, including by postponing work.
如果疫情持续，意味着很可能不能按时按量交付。
If the outbreak continues, it is likely that deliveries will not be delivered on time.
如今的手机产业已是一个极其紧密的链条，牵一发动全身。
Today's mobile phone industry is an extremely tight chain, pulling a full body.
无论是渠道还是供应链，任何一个环节出问题，对于手机厂商来说，都是巨大的库存风险。
Whether the channel or supply chain, any link of the problem, mobile phone manufacturers, are a huge inventory risk.
第三方数据机构SA预测，受疫情蔓延影响，2020年全球智能手机的出货量将比预期少2％，中国智能手机的出货量将比预期减少5％。
Smartphones will be shipped 2 per cent less than expected in 2020 and shipments of smartphones in China will be 5 per cent lower than expected, according to third-party data agency SA.
猝不及防的疫情冲击波，让原本就在寒冬的中国手机市场雪上加霜。
The unexpected shockwave has made China's mobile phone market worse off in the cold winter.
今年春节线下基本零销量对于大部分手机渠道商而言，春节到正月十五之前，往往能实现比平时多三倍的销售量，是拉动Q1季度销量的关键。
The Spring Festival offline basic zero sales for most mobile phone channels, Spring Festival to January 15, often more than three times more sales than usual, is the key to boost Q1 sales.
现在王立悲观预计，Q1季度公司的销售量将下降四分之三。
Now Mr. Wang predicts Q1 sales will fall by three-quarters.
即使没有关闭门店，春节期间那些勉强开业的零售渠道，也经营惨淡。
Even if they don't close, the retail outlets that grudgingly open during the Spring Festival are doing badly.
李为民跟王立一样，运营着年销售额上亿的线下手机连锁店。
Like Wang, Li runs multi-billion-dollar off-line handset chains with annual sales.
公司位于四川省南充市，拥有30几家门店。
Located in Nancheng City Sichuan Province, the company has about 30 stores.
今年春节虽然坚持开业，但顾客门可罗雀。
Although the Spring Festival insists on opening, but customers do not.
他对《财经》表示，往年春节，正常情况下，单日至少能销售600台手机，现在一天卖不到100台。
He told Caijing that in the past Spring Festival, when at least 600 cell phones could normally be sold a day, fewer than 100 were sold a day.
随着疫情升级，员工也开始抱怨，“过去，这正是赚三倍工资的时候，现在不仅赚不到钱，还因为担心传染，人心惶惶。
As the epidemic escalated, employees began to grumble: "In the past, when you were earning three times as much money, you were not only losing money, you were afraid of contagion.
”李为民不得不每天给员工开动员大会。
"Li had to hold staff meetings every day.
和销量一同糟心的是现金流的运转。
What goes badly with sales is the cash flow.
与2003年非典时期相比，房租、人工都翻了好几倍。
Compared with the SARS period in 2003, the rent and labor have increased several times.
李为民担忧，疫情照这么发展下去，一个月200万的损失，支撑不了几个月。
Li is worried that the epidemic continues like this, with a loss of two million a month that will not last for months.
跟很多大型连锁零售商一样，他已有了关掉部分门店的打算。
Like many big retailers, he has plans to shut down some of his stores.
第三方机构GFK分析师宗清楷对《财经》表示，受疫情影响，各个县、乡镇的智能手机销售数据“惨不忍睹”。
Smartphone sales data across counties and townships have been affected by the epidemic, "Mr Zong, an analyst with GFK, a third-party organisation, told Caijing.
线下渠道占据中国手机市场7成以上的份额，这些原本该销掉的手机也成为了手机厂商意料之外的库存。
With offline channels accounting for more than 70% of China's mobile-phone market, the phones that should have been sold have become an unexpected inventory for handset makers.
由于各个代工厂的订单早已于年前生产完毕，送往渠道，整个市场的库存风险大增。
As the orders of the various sub-plants were completed long ago, sent to the channel, the whole market inventory risk greatly increased.
接下来，势必将考验各大厂商的渠道管控能力。
Next, will be bound to test the major manufacturers channel control ability.
李为民告诉《财经》，一般情况下，压货越多，管控越容易出问题。
Li told Caijing that in general, the more pressurized goods are, the easier it is to control problems.
管控如果出了问题，异地窜货，渠道容易出现崩溃的可能。
Control if the problem, moving goods from one place to another, the channel is prone to collapse.
疫情如果持续升级，将加速线下渠道的洗牌。
If the outbreak continues to escalate, it will accelerate offline channel shuffling.
他认为，不少渠道商可能就此倒下。
He thinks, a lot of channel business may fall down.
这意味着，手机厂商的库存和渠道压力将进一步升级。
This means that the inventory and channel pressure of mobile phone manufacturers will further escalate.
线下市场一片狼藉，线上渠道理应帮助手机厂商消化一部分库存，然而目前来看，可能杯水车薪。
The offline market is in tatters, and online channels should help handset makers digest some of the inventory, but for now, it may be a drop in the bucket.
第三方机构Counterpoint数据显示，2019年Q3季度，中国市场线上销量占比为27%，不到整个市场的三成。
Sales in China accounted for 27% of online sales in the Q3 quarter of 2019, less than 30% of the overall market, according to third-party firm Counterpoint.
加之受疫情影响，经济下行，老百姓勒紧裤腰带等因素，大部分渠道人士对线上业绩的预判是持平，至多小幅上涨。
Coupled with the impact of the epidemic, the economic downturn, people tighten their belt and other factors, most sources of online performance is expected to be the same, at most a small increase.
也就是说，线上市场的表现对整个手机销售的影响依然有限。
That said, the impact of the online market's performance on overall handset sales remains limited.
而一旦库存积压过多，手机厂商的出新节奏就会大受影响。
Once the stock is too much, the new rhythm of mobile phone manufacturers will be greatly affected.
多位业内人士预估，华为、小米、OPPO、vivo等厂商的新品都可能滞后，尤其是5G手机，“肯定要疫情结束后才会发布。
Many industry insiders estimate that Huawei, millet, OPPO, Vivo and other manufacturers may lag behind in new products, especially 5G phones, "definitely not before the end of the epidemic."
”受此影响，第三方数据机构SA指出，中国智能手机市场的出货量在今年Q1季度会有超过30%的下滑。
Affected by this, third-party data agency SA said shipments of smartphones in China would fall by more than 30 per cent in the Q1 quarter this year.
后续影响尚待观察第三方数据机构SA分析师周怡雯对《财经》记者分析，一季度中国市场销量下降已是共识，该趋势是否延续至Q2季度，甚至波及更广的全球市场，还取决于手机供应端的产能配合程度。
Follow-up effects yet to be seen A third-party data agency SA analyst Jay-wen Chow told Caijing that there is a consensus that sales in China fell in the first quarter, and whether that trend will continue into Q2 or even into the wider global market will depend on how well handset suppliers match capacity.
中国大陆不仅是全球最大的智能手机市场，还生产全球70%的智能手机。
China is not only the world's largest smartphone market, but also produces 70 per cent of the world's smartphones.
智能手机制造已经是极其紧密的链条，原材料、制造、组装、测试，任何一个环节出问题，生产都将中断。
Smartphone manufacturing is already a very tight chain, raw materials, manufacturing, assembly, testing, any link goes wrong, production will be interrupted.
一位vivo驻海外的专业人士对《财经》表示，目前最担忧的是，国内无法按时按量的供货，影响未来海外市场销售。
One Vivo professional overseas told Caijing that the biggest worry was that China would not be able to deliver on time and in quantities that would affect future overseas sales.
这种担忧已经有了苗头。
This concern is beginning to take hold.
受疫情影响，大部分代工企业的复工时间在2月10日左右。
Affected by the epidemic, most of the contract workers are back to work around February 10.
据富士康披露，其在中国大陆的工厂都将于2月10日复工。
According to Foxconn, all of its factories in mainland China will resume work on February 10.
“广东复工时间延迟到9号，已经少了10天的产能了。
"Guangdong has delayed the resumption of work to the 9th, is already 10 days short of capacity.
以往春节安排，都是31号就会复工的。
In the past, the Spring Festival will be arranged on the 31st will resume work.
”另一位国内大型手机代工企业人士对《财经》表示。
Another big domestic cellphone contractor told Caijing.
随着疫情升级，他很担心能否按时将成品交付给手机厂商。
As the epidemic escalates, he worries about delivering the finished product to handset manufacturers on time.
另一方面，如果疫情形势持续严重，即使不再延长复工时间，也会影响企业的产能。
On the other hand, if the epidemic continues to be severe, even if the resumption of work time is not extended, it will affect the capacity of enterprises.
“疫情搞得人心惶惶，影响生产效率。
"The epidemic is alarming and affects production efficiency.
”代工厂的担忧是普遍的，大规模的员工聚集带来的卫生安全隐患难以估量。
The concerns of contract factories are widespread, and the health risks associated with large-scale employee aggregation are difficult to gauge.
苹果供应链上的工人超过100万，大量组装工作在中国完成。
Apple has more than a million workers in its supply chain, and mass assembly work is done in China.
据外媒报道，苹果已要求其供应商在今年上半年生产8000万部苹果手机，生产计划较去年增加了10%。
According to foreign media reports, Apple has asked its suppliers to produce 80 million Apple phones in the first half of this year, up 10% from last year.
这对以富士康为首的苹果供应链来说，无疑是挑战。
This is a challenge for Apple's supply chain, led by Foxconn.
“如果劳动力、供应链问题拖太久，一些代工企业还会出现资金链问题。
"If labour and supply chain problems drag on for too long, some contract companies will still have problems with the money chain."
”一家台湾代工厂的高管向《财经》说道。
An executive at a Taiwanese factory told Caijing.
疫情发展的严重程度是恢复正常生产的关键指标。
The severity of the epidemic is a key indicator of a return to normal production.
截至2月1日24时，国家卫生健康委官网显示，新型冠状病毒确诊病14380例，死亡病例304例，治愈出院病例328例，累计追踪到密切接触者163844人。
As of 2400 hours on February 1, the National Health Commission network showed that 14,380 new coronavirus cases had been diagnosed, 304 deaths had been reported, 328 cases had been cured and close contacts had been traced to 163,844 people.
连锁影响将是广泛的。
The ripple effects will be wide-ranging.
多位手机业内人士对《财经》表示，如果疫情持续发展，他们甚至做好了削减订单的准备。
Several cellphone industry insiders told Caijing they were even prepared to cut orders if the epidemic continued.
对于2019年就陷入负增长的手机市场来说，这场疫情无疑是雪上加霜。
For the cellphone market, which has been in negative growth since 2019, the epidemic is no doubt worse.
中国信息通信研究院数据显示，2019年国内手机市场总体出货量3.89亿部，同比下降6.2%。
China's mobile phone market overall shipped 389 million units in 2019, down 6.2% from a year earlier, according to the China Institute of Information and Communications Technology.
第三方机构SA在近期发布的报告中预测，如果疫情在2月下旬和3月份能得到有效控制，2020年全球智能手机的出货量将比预期减少2%，中国市场将比预期减少5％。
A recent report by the third-party agency SA predicts global smartphone shipments will be 2 per cent lower than expected and China's 5 per cent lower than expected if the outbreak is effectively contained in late February and March.
但如果疫情持续到4、5月份，宗清楷预估，这个数字可能将翻倍，中国市场2020年全年的智能手机实际销量至少会下滑10%。
But if the epidemic continues into April and May, Mr Zong predicts that the number could double, with real smartphone sales in China falling by at least 10% for all of 2020.
（应受访者要求，王立、李为民皆为化名）本文为《财经》与腾讯新闻独家合作内容，谢绝转载。
(At the request of the respondents, Wang Li, Li Weimin are aliases) This article for "Caijing" and Tencent News exclusive cooperation content, declined to reproduce.
新型冠状病毒疫情系列报道▷ 点击图片查看责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
A new coronavirus series of reports Please click on picture to see Invest & # 44; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情冲击波：手机渠道商损失连锁反应。
Epidemic Shockwave: Cell phone channel losses chain reaction.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "疫情冲击波：手机渠道商损失连锁反应";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Epidemic Shockwave: A chain reaction at RDL & quot;;
var msg_desc = "对于2019年就陷入负增长的中国手机零售市场来说，这场疫情无疑是雪上加霜。
var msg _ desc = & quot; the epidemic has added insult to injury to China's mobile-phone retail market, which has experienced negative growth since 2019.
相对线下渠道的全面收缩，线上渠道亦受影响";。
Relative to the overall contraction of offline channels, the online channel was also affected by & quot;;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
