90后女性创业图鉴：我已为公司写好墓志铭。
I have written a epitaph for the company.
锌财经                      。
Zinc Finance.
锌财经。
Zinc Finance.
新商业的记录者，新经济的推动者。
Record-keeper of new business, promoter of new economy.
。
.
The following article comes from 东四十条资本。
The following article comes with forty capital items.
Author 曹玮钰。
Author Cao Weiyu.
东四十条资本。
East forty capital.
聚焦股权投资行业人物、事件、数据、研究、政策解读，提供专业视角和深度洞见 | 创投圈有趣的灵魂。
Focus on people, events, data, research, and policy interpretation in the equity investment industry, providing professional perspectives and insights and an interesting soul at venture-capital circles.
本文经授权转载自公众号东四十条资本（ID：DsstCapital）文/曹玮珏原标/疫情之下的90后女性创业者：如果公司这次没撑过去，我已为它写好墓志铭从前开年谈未来，今年开年论谋生。
This article is authorized from public ID: DsstCapital article / Cao Weijue original standard / post-90 female entrepreneurs: If the company did not survive this time, I have written a epitaph for it the past year about the future, this year about the beginning of the year to make a living.
2020年，无数创业者都在默默吞咽着损失，拼尽了全力想要着活下去。
In 2020, millions of entrepreneurs are silently swallowing their losses, struggling to survive.
在哀鸿遍野的创业圈，有着这样一个群体：她们年轻、自信而美丽，看似柔弱，却拥有一颗大心脏；面对存亡危机，作为企业之主，她们不去抱怨也拒绝卖惨，而是像个果敢的将军一样带领团队杀出一条条生存之路。
There is a community of young, confident and beautiful entrepreneurs who have a big heart, young, confident and beautiful, who, as heads of businesses, do not complain and refuse to sell, but lead the team down the road to survival like a determined general.
“90后”、“创业者”、“女性”是人们贴在她们身上的标签，但她们不愿拿来贩卖，也懒理所谓“男性世界”的差别待遇。
"After 90," "entrepreneurs," "women" are the labels people put on them, but they do not want to sell them, nor do they care about the so-called "male world" difference.
在残酷的商业丛林中，她们清醒地拿能力说话。
In the cruel business jungles, they speak with soberness and power.
根据公开信息，中国女性创业者的比例已经接近30%，女性创始人的平均年龄约为37岁。
According to open information, the proportion of women entrepreneurs in China is close to 30 per cent and the average age of female founders is about 37.
随着“她力量”的崛起，新生代的90后女性创业者们，也开始用独特的商业思维来思考、影响乃至一步步改变着这个急剧变化的时代。
With the rise of "her power," the new generation of 90-year-old women entrepreneurs are beginning to think, influence and even change this era of rapid change with their unique business thinking.
值三八女神节来临之际，我们邀请三位90后女性创始人分享了抗“疫”故事。
On the occasion of the March 8 Festival, we invited three post90 female founders to share the story of fighting the plague.
希望她们的能量、态度和生命力可以感染到更多的人。
Hopefully, their energy, attitude and vitality will infect more people.
创业就是无数次的“灾后重建”，女生创业挺正常的MCN公司星光奇迹创始人&CEO李洋洋“用200倍速度冲刺，我们可能跑到别人的60分，但如果只用100倍速度跑，我们就只能死。
CEO Li Yang: "With a 200-fold sprint, we might have scored 60 points, but if we had run at 100 times the speed, we would have had to die.
不能成名，我们就是垃圾。
Without fame, we are rubbish.
”很难想象，这段狠劲十足甚至略显极端的话是从一个96年女生口中说出来的。
It is hard to imagine that this harsh, even slightly extreme, phrase came from a 96-year-old girl's mouth.
作为一家MCN公司的创始人，李洋洋最早从微博上得知了疫情爆发的消息，她的第一反应是“保命保平安”。
Li, the founder of an MCN company, first learned about the outbreak from Weibo and her first reaction was to "keep her life safe."
与大多数创业者一样，她没有预料到疫情的严重程度。
Like most entrepreneurs, she did not anticipate the severity of the epidemic.
大年初一，还沉浸过年快乐中的李洋洋看到了新闻，随后在朋友圈发起了募捐并把物资直接寄到了武汉的医院。
New Year's Day, but also immersed in the happy New Year Li Yang saw the news, and then in the circle of friends launched a fund-raising and sent materials directly to Wuhan hospitals.
而真正意识到疫情的严重性，是在得知一位相熟的武汉志愿者感染肺炎之后。
The real awareness of the severity of the outbreak came after learning that a familiar Wuhan volunteer had contracted pneumonia.
“当时的心情非常沉重，大年初四就召集员工开会，大家都很焦虑，觉得工作没法进行了，我听了以后特别火大。
"It was such a heavy mood that I called the staff to a meeting on Thursday and everyone was so anxious that I didn't think the work was going well.
我要带我们的人活下来，要削尖脑袋杀出一条血路。
I'm going to take our men to life, to have their heads chopped off.
他们觉得不行？那好，我自己做个电商给他们看看。
They don't think so? Well, I'll show them how to do an electric business myself.
”但还是有1/4的员工选择离职，公司的士气一度低迷到冰点。
Still, one in four workers quit their jobs, and morale at the company briefly froze.
当时公司刚创办3个月，投入了几百万资金，疫情让公司两项主营业务“红人孵化”和“电商变现”受到了很大影响。
Three months into its existence and millions of dollars invested in the company, the epidemic has had a major impact on its two main businesses, "Red Man hatching" and "Electro-business Liquidation."
红人们无法赶回来拍摄，内容进度严重滞后，杭州多地工厂停工，公司几乎无货可卖。
Red people can not come back to film, the content of the serious lag, Hangzhou many factories shut down, the company has almost no goods to sell.
曾做过千万级粉丝量级账号的李洋洋很清楚，如果账号运营停摆，内容就会凉，流量一旦凉了就很难再接上。
Li, who has been a multimillion-level fan account, is very clear that if the account operation is stopped, the content will be cool, once the flow is cold, it is difficult to reconnect.
“每一天都紧张，每一天都慌乱，每一天都崩溃。
"Every day is stressful, every day panic, every day crumbles.
”她用这样三个词描述自己作为一家公司老板的兵荒马乱，“手下几十号人，每天像打仗一样，整个人变得特别暴躁，忍不住四处‘口吐芬芳’。
She described her disarray as the boss of a company in these three words: "Dozens of people under her, fighting like war every day, have become particularly irascible and can't help but 'spit fragrance' around.
每天晚上回到家先哭一个小时，然后继续做视频小号，只睡三个小时。
Every night I would come home crying for an hour, then I would go on playing video trumpet and sleep only three hours.
我知道生活中肯定有困难，哭一下就完了，哭完赶快解决问题。
I know there must be difficulties in life, a cry on the end, crying out to solve the problem.
”功夫不负有心人，这位硬核90后女生用一个月时间做到了几十万粉丝，把电商业务重新带了起来。
This hard core of 90 girls with a month to achieve hundreds of thousands of fans, the business of electricity business has been brought up again.
除了近乎拼劲全力的自救，李洋洋也开始重新思考公司架构、抗风险能力和未来业务的发展。
In addition to almost strenuous self-help, Li also began to rethink the company's structure, risk resistance and future business development.
在她看来，创业就是无数次的“灾后创建”，很大程度上拼的就是斗志，应变能力也特别重要。
In her view, entrepreneurship is countless times "post-disaster creation," a great deal of effort is fighting spirit, resilience is also particularly important.
虽然疫情对几乎所有行业都有影响，但如果哪家公司因此死亡，或许只能说明选错了行业或者公司本身出了问题。
Although the epidemic affects almost every industry, if a company dies as a result, it may simply mean that the wrong industry has been chosen or that something is wrong with the company itself.
作为曾经入选福布斯U30（福布斯中国30位30岁以下行业精英）的创业者，李洋洋并不觉得女生创业有什么特别之处，也不愿意强调这一标签。
As a former Forbes U 30 entrepreneur (Forbes China's 30-something-under-30 industry elite), Li doesn't see anything special about female entrepreneurship and doesn't want to emphasize the label.
“都2020年了，女孩创业挺正常的，没必要强调这一点。
"After 2020, it's normal for girls to start their own businesses. There's no need to stress that.
只要不是做什么坏事，大家都一样，女生创业有时更有优势。
Girls sometimes have the advantage of starting a business, as long as it is not a bad thing.
”今年她给自己定下了一个小目标：公司业务全面变现，大家一起实现“有趣自由”。
This year she set herself a small goal: to make the business whole and everyone to be "fun and free."
她坦率直言：“人如果为了追求金钱而变成无聊的人，这就太无趣了。
She said bluntly: "It's boring if you become bored looking for money."
在我看来，‘有趣自由’比‘财富自由’厉害多了，这是我的态度。
In my opinion, 'fun and freedom' is much more than 'freedom of wealth', and that's my attitude.
”伟大的品牌拥有情感共鸣的生命力，女性创业拥有先天优势独立设计师品牌Page3 创始人&CEO格勒“设计师Raf Simons重出江湖，操刀下一季Prada春夏女装，哇期待！”格勒发了这样一条朋友圈，但心里也在打鼓。
Great brands have a life of emotional resonance, with female entrepreneurs having innate strengths & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
受疫情影响，自己品牌的春季系列已经彻底凉掉，夏季系列“生死未卜”。
Affected by the epidemic, their own brand of spring series has been thoroughly cool off, the summer series "life and death."
毕业于复旦大学旅游管理专业的格勒，内心的梦想其实是时尚设计，但父母总是劝她“现实点”。
Graduated from Fudan University majoring in tourism management, her inner dream is actually fashion design, but her parents always advised her to be "realistic."
后来，格勒参与了联合国开发计划署的一个艺术设计项目，了解到了苏绣、缂丝等中国传统手工艺术，被东方设计之美打动。
Later, he participated in an art and design project of the United Nations Development Program. Chao Chao knows the traditional Chinese handicraft art such as embroidery and Frontier.
梦想总是按捺不住的。
Dreams can't hold back.
项目结束后，格勒当即决定创业。
As soon as the project was over, Grad decided to start a business.
在母校复旦创业基金的支持下，格勒在上海创办了自己的独立设计品牌。
With the support of his alma mater Fudan Venture Capital, he founded his own independent design brand in Shanghai.
但现实往往存在偏差。
But reality tends to be biased.
“既保留传统手工艺，又要降低成本，符合年轻人当下审美，这样的设计并不容易。
"This is not an easy design that preserves traditional crafts while keeping costs down and is in line with young people's current aesthetic.
”格勒提到。
"he said.
为了适应市场，她逐渐把品牌转型为现代女性日常场景的实用设计，短短几年小有成绩，著名女星林志玲也成了她的顾客。
In order to adapt to the market, she gradually turned the brand into a modern day-to-day female scene of practical design, within a few short years small achievements, famous actress Lin Zhiling has become her customers.
2020年1月下旬，格勒在朋友圈看到了疫情消息，当时没觉得有多严重，“有点没搞清楚状况”。
In late January 2020, Grad saw news of the outbreak in his circle of friends, and did not feel serious at the time, "a little confused."
格勒是位新疆姑娘，当时省内还没有确诊病例，但随着管控愈发严格，她才意识到问题大了，迅速与合伙人采取措施。
She was a Xinjiang-based girl with no confirmed cases in the province, but as controls became tighter she realized the problem and quickly took steps with her partners.
“江浙一带的工厂几乎全部停工，春季系列无法出货。
"Factories all but shut down in Jiangsu and Zhejiang, and the spring line couldn't be shipped.
夏季系列的设计虽然已经完成，但能不能执行也是个未知数，目前正在沟通工期。
Although the design of the summer series has been completed, but whether it can be implemented is unknown, is currently communicating the construction schedule.
品牌接下来的现金流会十分紧张，我和合伙人已经在着手其他准备，比如把重心转到线上，联系一些投资人等。
The next cash flow for the brand is going to be pretty tight, and my partners and I are already working on other things, like getting our focus on the line and contacting some investors.
”面对这次危机，格勒一度十分忧虑，之后渐渐走向平和，并认真反思了创业过程的问题。
After a period of intense anxiety about the crisis, Mr Grader gradually calmed down and reflected on the entrepreneurial process.
除了之前品牌方向的调整，这次疫情又暴露出品牌对线下依赖过大的弊端，再来就是供应链资源的薄弱。
In addition to the previous reorientation of the brand, this epidemic has exposed the brand on the off-line too much abuse, and then the supply chain resources weak.
除了反思问题，她也在敏锐地挖掘机会。
In addition to introspection, she is also acutely aware of opportunities.
“困难中往往也饱含生机，比如一些只能做纯代工、没有话语权的供应链厂商也在这次疫情中感受到了危机，几家工厂已经和我们对接品牌的开发设计，这种互补的合作可以解决双方的弊端，实现共赢。
"Difficulties are often full of vitality, such as some of the pure contract workers, no voice in the supply chain manufacturers also feel the crisis, several factories and we have docked the development design, this complementary cooperation can solve the shortcomings of both sides, achieve win-win.
再比如，疫情加速了远程办公的趋势，一些家居品牌察觉到了机会，正在积极开拓市场，像家居服在这个服饰品类在国内还是相对空白的状态，随着中产阶层的扩张，这类生活仪式感的产品或许会是个机会。
For example, the epidemic has accelerated the trend toward telecommuting, with some home brands perceiving the opportunity to actively explore the market, such as home services in the domestic or relatively blank state of the clothing category, as middle-class expansion, this kind of ritual products may be an opportunity.
”在格勒看来，不管有没有疫情，创业都是件很不容易的事情。
Starting a business, with or without an epidemic, is not easy, according to Mr Grader.
当前是个很好的反思机会，可以好好总结不足、弥补不足，之后再出发。
Now is a good opportunity for reflection, can well summarize the shortcomings, make up for shortcomings, and then set out.
这一切并非不能改变的结果。
All this is not the result of immutability.
“把成功当做结果，失败作为过程。
"Think of success as an outcome and failure as a process.
只要不断学习总结经验，总会做好这件事。
As long as you keep learning from experience, always do it well.
”她笑着说道。
'she said with a smile.
作为一名90后女生创业者，格勒很清楚女生创业的先天优势——女生更加细腻敏感，更有同理心，因此更能体察到别人的心思和需求。
As a 90-year-old female entrepreneur, he was well aware of the innate advantages of female entrepreneurship - girls were more sensitive, empathetic, and therefore more sensitive to the hearts and needs of others.
任何伟大的品牌，都拥有引起情感共鸣的生命力。
Any great brand, has the vitality that causes the emotion resonance.
不论何种性别的创业者，这种生命力都非常重要。
This vitality is very important for entrepreneurs of any gender.
格勒说她想做一名连续创业者。
She says she wants to be a serial entrepreneur.
这样勇敢的女性或许注定会经历更多波折，但也一定可以触到更广阔的天地。
Such a brave woman may be destined to go through more ups and downs, but she must also touch the wider world.
潮玩95后创业团队，期待更多女生加入谈判桌旅行社交平台西柚创始人&CEO 杨依依“不要问我疫情结束以后想见谁，是DJ。
"Don't ask me who I want to see after the epidemic is over. It's DJ," Yang says.
2月14日情人节带你们来一场云蹦迪，家里蹲的蹦迪选手们准备好。
February 14 Valentine's Day will bring you to a cloud Jumping, the family squat jumpers ready.
”情人节前夕，杨依依请到了几位DJ和Rapper（说唱歌手），在抖音为自家用户组织了一场时下正火爆的“云蹦迪”直播。
On the eve of Valentine's Day, Ms. Yang invited several DJ and Rapper (rappers) to live a live, now-raucous' Cloud Jumping 'for their own users.
2019年11月还在武汉参加VAC电音节的她，完全预料不到武汉会遭受这样一场疫情，也没想到有朝一日蹦迪还能这么玩。
Having participated in VAC's electric syllables in Wuhan in November 2019, she had no idea that Wuhan would suffer such an epidemic, nor did she expect that one day Jumping would be able to do so.
3年前，95年的杨依依和几位95后朋友创办了西柚，定位是年轻人的旅行社交娱乐平台，日常业务包括国内旅行、室内主题派对和户外主题嘉年华。
Three years ago, 95-year-old Yang Yi and a few 95-year-old friends founded grapefruit, which is a popular travel agency for young people and includes domestic travel, indoor themed parties and outdoor themed carnivals.
疫情一来，上述三块业务集体停摆。
The outbreak of the epidemic, the three business collective stop.
疫情爆发时，正在菲律宾度假的杨依依只觉得吃惊。
When the outbreak broke out, Yang Yiyi, who was on holiday in the Philippines, was surprised.
回国后，作为创始人的她感到些许后悔。
When she returned home, she felt a little remorse as the founder.
“感觉错过了一波商机。
"I feel like I missed a wave of business.
比如品牌可以做一些公关，那会是收获流量的好时机。
Brands, for example, can do some PR, which can be a good time to harvest traffic.
”后悔的心情很快就被“徘徊和纠结”替代。
The mood of regret was quickly replaced by "wandering and entanglement."
公司原本计划1月份上架新产品，3、4月份做线下活动推广，现在看来至少推迟三个月。
The company, which had planned to launch new products in January and launch offline campaigns in March and April, now appears to be at least three months behind schedule.
想到这些，杨依依几乎在家丧气了整个春节。
Thinking about this, Yang Yi was almost at home during the Spring Festival.
“公司目前面临三大困境：一是线下活动完全做不了，营收为零；二是公司现金流吃紧，虽然办公场地可以享受一些创业优惠政策，但不论维持运转还是开拓新业务都需要资金支持，中小企业扶持政策大概也很难对接得上；三是大环境还比较紧迫，目前大家还很恐慌，大概也都会收紧钱包，全年内需、消费增长或许有限，这对我们的业务很不利。
"The company is facing three major difficulties: one is the total inability to do offline activities, with zero revenue; the other is the tight cash flow of the company. Although the office space can enjoy some preferential policies, SME support policies are probably difficult to match.
”困境之下，杨依依果断决定砸钱转型，迅速把重心放到线上，开始尝试做旅游类内容发布在自媒体和短视频平台，一来可以进行品牌推广，增加粉丝数量，二来可以获取广告收入，再来就是通过促销、预付费等手段尝试提前“种草”，增加订单营收。
Under difficult circumstances, Yang decided decisively to throw money into transition, quickly focusing on online, and began to try to do tourism-related content in the media and short video platforms, on the one hand to promote brands, increase the number of fans, and, on the other hand, to try to "grow grass" early and increase revenue through promotions, prepayments, etc.
“转型做线上内容还是很烧钱的，按照目前现金流，公司只能撑到6月份左右，如果没做出来就会很困难。
'Transformative content is still expensive, 'he says.' Based on current cash flow, the company can only hold out until about June, which would be difficult if not done.
公司目前尚未融资，因为早期风险投资很看重数据，对我们这类线下为主的业务数据存在疑问。
The company has yet to raise capital because early venture capital valued data and had doubts about our offline business data.
我们本来计划融合多家小B，做成类似马蜂窝那样的年轻人旅游社交平台，但因为疫情影响，只能暂时改变方向。
We were planning to merge a few small B's into a youth travel social platform like a hornet's nest, but because of the epidemic, we had to change direction temporarily.
”虽然困难重重，但杨依依已经没有了“纠结徘徊”，更多的是“乐观直面”。
Despite the difficulties, Yang is no longer "entangled", more is "optimistic face."
她很清醒，要度过危机必须经历转型，团队的力量也尤为重要，作为创始人必须鼓舞士气。
She was soberly aware that transition was needed to get through the crisis and that the strength of the team was particularly important and must be brought on by the founders.
另外，公司面临困境，疫情只能算部分原因，主要还是看创始团队的战略方向。
In addition, the company is facing difficulties, the epidemic can only be partly explained, mainly depending on the strategic direction of the founding team.
“个人认为赚钱不是一件很难的事情。
"Personally I don't think it's hard to make money.
‘黑天鹅’出现了就要及时调整，办法还是很多的。
'Black swan 'appeared to be ready to adjust, or a number of ways.
这次疫情会是一次大洗牌，其实不是坏事，会筛掉一波‘混混’公司，留下真正有质量、有战略眼光的企业。
This outbreak will be a major reshuffle, in fact, is not a bad thing, will sift out a wave of 'mixed' companies, leaving a real quality, strategic vision of the enterprise.
”作为一名95后女生创业者，杨依依特别提到：“我们是95后创业团队，代表新一代大学生创业，很希望国家可以多多扶持，但我们更想传达一些正能量。
As a 95-year-old female entrepreneur, Yang said, "We are a post-95 start-up team representing a new generation of college students.
另外，我也期待更多女生加入谈判桌，毕竟女性创业者很多天然优势，比如擅长沟通，心思细腻，能够很好把控团队等等。
In addition, I also expect more girls to join the negotiation table. After all, women entrepreneurs have many natural advantages, such as good communication, good mind, good control team and so on.
”这位不服输的女生想做一个很棒的连续创业者，对于一时得失她也已经看得很坦然了。
The indomitable schoolgirl wanted to be a great serial entrepreneur and was comfortable with her temporary loss.
“如果公司这次没撑过去，我会为它写下‘待到春暖花开，方能东山再起’的墓志铭。
"If the company does not survive this time, I will write for it 'stay till the spring blooms, can resurrect the mountains' epitaph.
然后继续出发。
Then continue on your way.
”杨依依笑着说。
"Yang Yi said with a smile.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
90后女性创业图鉴：我已为公司写好墓志铭。
I have written a epitaph for the company.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "锌财经";。
Var nickname = & quot; zinc finance & quot;;
var msg_title = "90后女性创业图鉴：我已为公司写好墓志铭";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "“她”力量的崛起。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; the rise of her power.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="锌财经";。
Var title = & quot; Zinc & Finance & quot;;
