泉州隔离酒店坍塌：被忽视的结构风险。
Quanzhou Isolated Hotel Collapse: Neglected Structural Risk.
李秀莉郜超李晓洁。
Li Gao Gao Xiaojie.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
记者 | 李秀莉 郜超实习记者 | 李晓洁3月7日晚7点左右，泉州市鲤城区南环路欣佳酒店发生楼体坍塌事故，该酒店是鲤城区新冠肺炎医学观察点，逃生9人，受困71人。
Li Xiaojie, Li Xiuli Gao and Gao Xiaojie, a resident of the Xinjia Hotel, Lei Cheng Road, Quanzhou City, was hit by a collapse at around 7 p.m. on March 7. The hotel was the Lei Cheng Xinguan Pneumonia Clinic, where 9 people escaped and 71 were trapped.
截至本刊发稿，事故现场已救出48人，其中10人死亡。
As of the press release, the scene of the accident has rescued 48 people, 10 of them dead.
根据本刊对多位居民和商户的采访，该酒店为一栋轻钢结构厂房改造而来，而早在三年前，该酒店大楼就发生过多次窗户爆裂的问题。
According to interviews with a number of residents and businesses, the hotel for a light-steel structural workshop, as long as three years ago, the hotel has had several broken windows.
危险的信号早已通过某种方式进行传递，却始终未被重视，直至大楼轰然倒下。
The signal of danger had been transmitted in some way, but had not been heeded until the building had fallen.
突然坍塌3月7号晚上7点左右，泉州鲤城区南环路一家甜品店的老板洪超刚刚送完一单外卖回到店里，正在吃晚饭，忽然听到像是山体滑坡一样的声音，“像是山体滑坡，又像是地震，说不清楚。
Hong Chao, owner of a dessert shop on Nanhuan Road, Quanzhou City, had just returned from a takeaway and was having dinner when he heard what sounded like a landslide, "like a landslide, like an earthquake.
”大约一两秒后，震感消失，他跑出店铺，“外面浓烟滚滚，什么也看不清楚”。
"After about a second or two, the tremor died down and he ran out of the shop.
大概过了几十秒，粉尘渐渐散去，洪超看到路边一排汽车上面落满粉尘，路边有人喊着“全倒了！”这时他才看清，约30米外的欣佳酒店，像一根倾斜的筷子一样，已经倒塌了。
After about a few seconds, the dust dissipated and Hong Chao saw a row of cars on the side of the road covered with dust, and someone on the side of the road shouted, "All down!"
“灰尘全部起来了，把楼遮住，看不到房子，我们不知道是怎么回事，还以为是地面塌陷了，等灰尘下去的时候才看到，整个酒店向西北角方向倒塌了。
The dust had all risen, and the building was hidden from view; we did not know what it was, supposing that the ground had caved in, and when the dust had settled, the whole hotel had fallen to the northwest corner.
”正在酒店对面茶铺和几个朋友泡茶的纪军听到巨响跑出去，也见证了这一幕。
"Guijun, who was at the tea shop opposite the hotel with some friends, heard a loud noise and ran out to witness the scene.
纪军向本刊回忆，倒塌的大楼共有7层，1层有欣佳酒店大厅、超市入口及其他店铺；2层有酒店的办公室；3层多为小商铺；4-6层是酒店房间；顶楼7层是员工宿舍与餐厅。
The collapsed building consisted of seven floors, including a hotel lobby, supermarket entrances and other shops on the first floor, hotel offices on the second floor, small shops on the third floor, hotel rooms on the fourth to sixth floors and staff quarters and dining rooms on the seventh floor.
图源@福建消防欣佳酒店地处市区外围，附近很多商铺，大部分都做二手车生意。
Photo source @ Fujian fire Xinjia Hotel is located in the outskirts of the city, near many shops, most of the second-hand car business.
根据一张落款为“高山社区委员会”的通知和当地民众的反映，疫情发生后，该酒店被泉州市鲤城区人民政府改造为区级医学观察点，用以隔离、观察外来人员及密切接触者，另一隔离点是鲤城区妇幼保健院。
Following the outbreak, the hotel was converted into a district medical observation point by the Lei City People's Government of Quanzhou City to isolate and observe outsiders and close contacts, and another was the Lei City Maternal and Child Health Centre.
一位曾租该楼店铺开过4S店的全德宝汽车销售有限公司老板王生告诉本刊，该酒店的生意在疫情之前一直就不错。
Wang Sheng, owner of Quan De Bao Automobile Sales Co. Ltd, who used to rent the building's 4S store, told the magazine that the hotel's business had been doing well before the outbreak.
即使后来离开此地前往别处开店，他还经常带着客户回来这里住，因为“既便宜又干净。
Even when he left the place to open a business elsewhere, he often brought his clients back because it was "cheap and clean.
”至于为何选择此酒店作为隔离点，王生向本刊推测，原因可能有两种，第一，该地区位置较为偏僻，周围的居民楼较少；第二，该酒店为独立建筑，疫情期间一楼的商铺也大多未营业，可以防止交叉感染。
"As for why the hotel was chosen as a quarantine site, Wang speculated to the magazine that there might be two reasons: first, the location of the area was remote and there were fewer residential buildings around it; and second, the hotel was a stand-alone building, and most of the shops on the ground floor were not open during the outbreak to prevent cross-infection.
灰尘稍微散去，纪军和几个朋友穿过马路，跑到倒塌大楼旁边，准备救援。
As the dust settled slightly, Ji and a few friends crossed the street and ran to the side of the collapsed building, ready for rescue.
纪军是退伍军人，同行的朋友中也有3个是一起当过兵的。
Ji Jun was a veteran, and three of his fellow soldiers were soldiers together.
“因为害怕房子会出现二次事故，就有两个朋友在酒店旁边看着，不让老百姓往里面靠，还有一个人在那边引导。
"Fearing that the house would go through a double accident, two friends stood by the hotel, not letting the people in, and one guiding them.
后来也有好几个年轻小伙子过来帮忙疏导。
Later several young men came to help with the work.
”纪军说，“酒店那一片区域的霓虹灯全没了，黑乎乎的。
'The neon lights in that part of the hotel are gone, 'says Mr. Ji.
”但这时候已经有两三个人一瘸一拐地，从塌掉的建筑物中走出来。
But by this time two or three people had limped out of the collapsed building.
洪超在附近也看到了自行逃生的那几个人，他对本刊描述，“有两个穿警服的人从一层出来，受伤比较严重，浑身是血和灰。
"Two men in police uniform came out of the first floor, wounded more seriously and covered in blood and ashes," Hong Chao told the magazine.
还有一个女性从顶楼那边走出来，没受什么伤，只有膝盖有刮伤。
Another woman came out of the attic unscathed except for a scratch on her knee.
”纪军告诉本刊，大约二十分钟，派出所的人最先到达现场，之后又陆陆续续来了其他救援队伍，整条南环路拉起了警戒线，非专业救援人员不能靠近现场。
"Ji told the print that about 20 minutes, police station people first arrived at the scene, and then successively a number of other rescue teams, the entire Southern Ring Road pulled up a cordon, non-professional rescue personnel can not be close to the scene.
据报道，事发当晚，省、市、区三级调动消防、武警、医疗、应急管理、公安、住建等救援力量1000多人，展开全方位搜救。
It was reported that on the night of the accident, more than 1,000 rescue forces, including fire fighting, armed police, medical, emergency management, public security and housing, were mobilized at the provincial, municipal and district levels to conduct all-round search and rescue work.
由厂房改造的酒店泉州市鲤城区住建局局长张翼在此前接受采访时表示，今年春节前，房屋业主将一楼出租的超市收回重新改装。
Zhang Wing, director of the Lei Cheng Building, Quanzhou City, a factory converted hotel, said in an interview that before the Spring Festival this year, homeowners would repack their first-floor rental supermarkets.
3月7日晚上7时，房主接到现场施工人员电话称，在进行作业的一楼房屋一根柱子发生变形。
On 7 March, at 7 p.m., the owner received a telephone call from the construction staff at the site stating that a post had been deformed in the first floor of the house where the work was being carried out.
三四分钟后，楼梯整体坍塌。
Three or four minutes later, the stairs collapsed.
张翼称，该楼房坍塌是因为装修，还是原来结构问题，还需进一步甄别。
Zhang said the collapse of the building because of renovation, or the original structural problems, need to be further screened.
不过，事故的发生，往往是一系列偶然事件的集合,每一条偶然背后都隐藏着必然。
However, the occurrence of accidents, is often a series of accidental events, each accidental behind the inevitable hidden.
图源@新浪福建危险的信号至少在两年前就已显现。
Signs of danger at source @ Sina Fujian appeared at least two years ago.
从谷歌地图上看，全德宝汽车销售有限公司的牌子还挂在欣佳酒店的外墙上，但公司老板王生告诉本刊，2017年他就已经退租，退租后店铺被改建成了欣佳酒店的大堂。
On Google Maps, Quan De Bao Automobile Sales Co. Ltd. is still on the outside wall of Xinjia Hotel, but its owner Wang Sheng told the magazine that he had already rented it back in 2017 and that the store had been converted into a lobby of Xinjia Hotel after renting it out.
退租的原因，一个是地理位置不好。
One of the reasons for renting is geographical location.
另一个，就与建筑本身的安全性有关。
The other relates to the safety of the building itself.
2013年，该大楼刚建成不久，王生作为第一批入驻的商户之一，从房东杨金锵的手里租下了1楼和7楼共计1000多平的店铺，月租四万多。
In 2013, shortly after the building was built, Wang Sheng, one of the first tenants, rented more than 1,000 flat shops on the first and seventh floors from the landlord, Yang Jinqiang, for a monthly rent of more than 40,000.
2014年王生的4S店开业。
Wang's 4S store opened in 2014.
“当时租店时，看过大楼的规划图。
"When I was renting, I looked at the layout of the building.
”王生告诉本刊，在他记忆中，大楼主体为钢结构。
Mr Wang told the print that, in his memory, the main body of the building was steel.
“当时楼板都没有，从二层可以直接看到六层楼顶，中间由几根工字钢支撑，没有加固。
"There was no floor, from the second floor can directly see the six-storey roof, supported by a few steel, not reinforced.
有几根柱子看起来是混凝土，但其是钢管外包了木板。
There are several columns that look like concrete, but its steel tubes are outsourced to wooden boards.
一层也全是玻璃门窗，没有实体墙面。
The first floor was also full of glass doors and windows, with no physical walls.
”事发后，根据泉州市鲤城区住建局的消息，该楼房占地5亩，建筑面积约7000平方米，属于钢结构房屋。
The five-acre building, with a gross floor area of about 7,000 square metres, is a steel structure, according to the URA.
北京建筑大学设计学院院长王伟告诉本刊，和混凝土结构相比，钢结构空间跨度比较大，更适合做商场、厂房，而用作住宅或酒店的话，对技术要求比较高。
Wang Wei, dean of the School of Design at the Beijing University of Architecture, told the magazine that steel structures span more space than concrete structures, making them more suitable for shopping malls and factories, and more technically demanding for residential buildings or hotels.
“混凝土结构空间跨度一般10米左右，钢结构很轻松地就到20米甚至更高。
"Concrete structures typically span about 10 metres in space, with steel structures moving easily up to 20 metres or more.
”事实上，该楼设计之初就是作为厂房使用的。
In fact, the building was originally designed to be used as a factory building.
曾在附近开机械厂的花辰介绍，2012年到2014年间，他的机械厂开在距离300米左右的街对面，一周要路过这里几次，他回忆当时附近“比较荒凉，这座楼孤零零的，对面是一些杂牌4s店”。
According to Flowers, who owned a nearby machine factory, his machine factory was across the street from about 300 meters between 2012 and 2014, passing through it several times a week. He recalled the desolate neighborhood, a lonely building with a collection of 4sstores across the street.
直到现在，人口密集区都在平行的江南大道一侧，“过去的南环路两边很荒，从浦口环岛到泉州车管所，基本就是新车，二手车，汽车服务一条街。
Up to now, the densely populated areas are on the parallel side of Jiangnan Boulevard. "The old Southern Ring Road is very rare on both sides, from Pukou roundabout to Quanzhou Auto-control station, basically is a new car, second-hand car, car service street.
所以这个楼最初就是为了汽车行业服务的，不是用作酒店的。
So this building was originally for the automotive industry, not for hotels.
”然而，在欣佳酒店周围，南环路、江南大道和泉南高速两两相交，构成了一片三角地，村民所有的建设用地在这里野蛮生长。
However, around the Xinjia Hotel, the intersection of the South Ring Road, the Jiangnan Boulevard and the Quangnan Expressway forms a triangle where all the construction land owned by the villagers grows savagely.
花辰告诉本刊，这里很多楼体设计不是正规公司做的，都是一些几个人的小工厂凭经验做。
Huachen told this print, here many buildings are not designed by the formal company, are a few people's small factory to do by experience.
“楼的产权，是村集体用地，承包给私人使用。
"The property right of the building is the collective land of the village, contracted for private use.
以前情况不好，就盖个厂房。
When things were bad, we built a plant.
情况好了，就改成4s店、酒店。
The situation is good, change to 4sstore, hotel.
发展快了，就从二产变三产了。
Fast development, from the second production to the third production.
”欣佳酒店为钢结构，钢管外侧用木板包装。
Xinjia Hotel is a steel structure with wooden planks for the outside of the steel pipe.
图源新京报逐渐丰富的配套也为酒店开张做好了准备。
The increasingly rich sets of the Beijing News also set the stage for the opening of the hotel.
一位不愿透露姓名的知情人士告诉本刊，欣佳酒店的股东之一是他的朋友，考虑到那块区域没有酒店，旁边做二手车生意的人多、工厂多，同时附近的驾校、车管所等设施有丰富的人流。
A person familiar with the matter, speaking on condition of anonymity, told the magazine that one of Xinjia's shareholders was a friend of his, considering that there were no hotels in the area, that there were many second-hand car dealers and factories, and that the nearby driving school, the DMV and other facilities had a large number of people.
2018年，股东与杨金锵合伙开酒店。
In 2018, shareholders and Yang Jinqiang partnership to open a hotel.
酒店建成后，知情人士曾因工作关系多次居住，“那边生意一直不错，做二手车生意的多，有时候车主来收车，没收完就会住酒店，我有几次去还没订到房间。
When the hotel was built, people familiar with the matter had lived there many times because of their working relationship. "Business there has always been good and there is a lot of second-hand car business.
”到了2017年，大楼房东杨金锵开始对大楼进行装修，改建酒店。
By 2017, the building's landlord, Yang Jinqiang, had begun renovating the building and renovating the hotel.
王生回忆，当时杨金锵叫来建筑工人，指挥他们在大楼的原有结构上加盖楼板，整个改建过程“没有找专业人士来帮忙设计。
Mr. Yang called in construction workers to direct them to slab the original structure of the building, Wang recalled, adding that 'no professionals were available to help design the process.
所以根本就不知道自己加了多少重量上去。
So I don't know how much weight I put on.
”王生并不清楚该大楼改建的手续是否齐全，但他记得装修过程中城管局的人过来叫停过好几次。
Mr Wang did not know whether the building had been completed, but he remembered that the city authorities had stopped several times during the renovation.
后来，“可能是大楼核载加重，玻璃经常无故爆破”，他就此问题多次找过杨金锵，对方的回复是，“地基稍微下沉，很正常。
Later, "possibly because of the building's nuclear load, glass often blasting," he repeatedly asked Yang Jinqiang, the other side of the response is, "the foundation slightly sinking, very normal.
”因为玻璃赔偿的问题，双方还多次发生纠葛，“再加上装修时期粉尘很严重，影响生意，我就搬走了。
"The two sides also had several disputes over the glass compensation." Coupled with the heavy dust during the renovation period, which affected the business, I moved away.
最后也不知道有没有验收。
Finally, I do not know if there is acceptance.
”工商资料显示，欣佳酒店的法人是杨金锵。
Business data shows that the legal person of Xinjia Hotel is Yang Jinqiang.
根据本刊采访到的附近多位商户回忆，2018年，欣佳酒店改造完成，并于当年6月开业，酒店有各类客房计66间。
According to the print interview with a number of nearby merchants recall, 2018, Xinjia hotel renovation was completed, opened in June that year, the hotel has a variety of rooms 66.
2018-2019年，欣佳酒店因多次未按规定办理住宿登记，而被泉州市公安局鲤城分局处以行政处罚。
From 2018 to 2019, Xinjia Hotel was administratively punished by the Lei City Branch of Quanzhou Public Security Bureau for failing to register accommodation as required.
2019年，欣佳酒店因未按《个体工商户年度报告办法》规定报送年度报告，被列入异常经营名录。
In 2019, Xinjia Hotel was included in the Unusual Business Register for failing to submit an annual report as required by the Annual Report on Individual Businesses.
危险的结构一位参与此次救援行动的应急管理专家沈博，在事故当晚就有了初步判断。
Dangerous Structure An emergency management expert involved in the rescue operation, Shen Bo, had a preliminary verdict on the night of the accident.
沈博通过舆情监测公司爬取到了图片资料，他研究了废墟中崩坏的墙体认为，结构失稳的问题更大。
Shen Bo, who crawled through public-opinion monitoring, studied the crumbling walls in the rubble and concluded that structural instability was a bigger problem.
沈博告诉本刊记者，酒店当初的改建方式就是单纯的钢结构+填充墙，“墙会整面地倒，是因为和承重的钢结构没有‘强连接’，对一般建筑而言，先是混凝土立柱，然后砖砌墙，有水泥做粘合剂。
Shen told reporters that the original reconstruction of the hotel is a simple steel structure + fill wall, "the wall will fall face to face, because and load-bearing steel structure 'strong connections', for ordinary buildings, first concrete columns, then brick walls, cement.
而且墙是承重的，会被越压越实。
And the walls are load-bearing and will get more and more compacted.
”另一方面，他分析，一楼装修如果动了墙，或者动了地基，也可能是坍塌的一个诱因。
On the other hand, he analyses that a first-floor decoration, if it moves a wall or a foundation, may also be an inducement to collapse.
不过，这次小规模装修肯定不会是最重要原因，关键还在于几年前的酒店改造。
However, this small renovation will certainly not be the most important reason, the key lies in a few years ago the hotel renovation.
“反过来说，轻钢结构没有承重墙，是桌子一样的结构，靠柱子支撑，中间的砌体墙是起不到作用的。
"Conversely, light steel structures have no load-bearing walls, are table-like structures supported by columns and the middle masonry walls do not work.
如果设计者不懂行，装修的时候不加柱子，而是按照古典的做法进行砌墙，以为这样就能承重了，但如果整个建筑是钢结构，这种设计是非常错误的。
If the designer doesn't know how to do it, the decoration is done without pillars, but in accordance with the classical practice of masonry walls, so as to be able to bear the burden, but if the entire building is steel structure, this design is very wrong.
就像你在桌子腿之间砌上墙，并不能保证桌子不倒。
Just like you build a wall between the legs of a table, it doesn't guarantee that it won't fall.
”北京建筑大学的另一位结构工程专家邓思华告诉本刊。
Deng Sihua, another structural engineer at Beijing Construction University, told the print.
图源@新浪福建当晚9时，沈博又通过一家地图公司提供的历史数据，确认这处楼宇在2017年的结构还是一处厂房，供当时一楼4S店和维修站使用。
At 9: 00 pm on the same night in Sina Fujian, Shen Bo confirmed, using historical data provided by a map company, that the building would remain a factory building in 2017 for use by 4S stores and repair shops on the first floor.
沈博告诉本刊，由于初期设计用途是厂房，2017年改建成住人的酒店时，就要加楼板、加墙、加装修水暖管道和楼顶水箱等设施，下层承受大的重量大幅提升。
Shen told the magazine that, since the initial design was for factory buildings, when converted into a residential hotel in 2017, facilities such as slabs, walls, plumbing and roof cisterns would have to be added.
以水箱为例，80人的客房一般要配备10吨的顶楼水箱，“十吨不算太重，一般水箱都是在楼顶的，可以利用高度施加水压。
In the case of water tanks, 80-person rooms are usually equipped with a 10-ton roof tank. "Ten tons is not too heavy
只不过停车场肯定是不需要这么大水箱的，这属于额外加了重量。
It's just that the parking lot doesn't need such a large tank. It's extra weight.
而且水箱要配备相关设施，其实这些压力机泵运转时候带来的振动也有影响。
And water tanks to be equipped with related facilities, in fact these pressure pump operation when the vibration also has an impact.
”沈博对着一楼停车场的照片分析：“如果反过来，底层酒店，上方商铺，可能威胁还小一些。
Shen Bo's analysis of the parking lot on the ground floor: "If the other way around, the bottom hotels, the stores above, might be less threatening.
”他向记者标注了照片中车库中间的一排立柱：“这些是承重的，但是相对容易失稳。
He pointed to a row of posts in the middle of the garage: "These are load-bearing, but relatively unstable.
就比如四根火柴支起来一个火柴盒。
Like four matches in a matchbox.
撑起来是没问题的，但是火柴盒一晃动就会倒下来。
There's nothing wrong with it, but if you move the matchbox it will fall down.
”沈博所说的火柴盒，正是隐藏在照片中一楼天花板之上，跨越6层的停车场、餐厅、办公室、酒店、足浴中心和员工宿舍等场所。
Shen said the matchbox was hidden above the ceiling on the first floor of the photo, spanning six floors of parking lots, restaurants, offices, hotels, foot-bath centres and staff quarters.
然而，直到2020年楼体最终倒塌，中间为什么可以经历如此漫长的时间？根据王生的说法，该建筑在2017年即出现窗户爆裂的征兆。
But why should it take so long until the building eventually collapses in 2020? According to Wang, the building will show signs of a window bursting in 2017.
“窗户爆裂、地面爆裂，说明建筑的结构开始变形，马上要失去稳定了。
"The window burst and the ground burst, indicating that the structure was beginning to deform and was about to lose its stability.
”王伟告诉本刊：“但是钢结构建筑可以经历一个柔性的变化。
"But steel structures can undergo a soft change," Wang told this print.
钢是有粘性的，比如我把一个钢筋拉断之前，它先是有一个大变形，然后达到一个新的平衡，不会立刻就断。
Steel is sticky. For example, before I break a steel bar, it first has a large deformation and then reaches a new equilibrium that does not break immediately.
但这时候已经很脆了，再继续施力就会断。
But by this time it was very brittle, and continued application would break.
这和混凝土结构不一样，混凝土在拉力下可以立刻断裂。
Unlike concrete structures, concrete can break at once under tensile force.
”回到初建成的2012年，在花辰的印象里，楼体外墙未被广告牌遮挡的左半边，钢结构裸露在外，没有地板，没有墙，没有外立面，从外面就能把整栋楼看个通透。
Back in 2012, when it was first built, the left half of the building's exterior wall was not covered by billboards, and the steel structure was exposed, with no floor, no wall, no facade, and the entire building could be seen through from the outside.
这个纯粹由钢结构组成的一半，正是欣佳酒店后来的客房所在地。
The half-steel structure was the site of the hotel's later guestrooms.
从楼体倒塌前的照片中，脆弱的钢结构已不见踪影，覆盖楼体表面的，只有通透却不能承重的玻璃幕墙。
Fragile steel structures were missing from photos taken before the building collapsed, covering the surface of the building with glass walls that were permeable but not heavy-duty.
对于那些前来隔离的居民，危险已埋伏在墙内。
For those who came to isolate, the danger lay in ambush inside the wall.
（洪超、纪军、王生、沈博、花辰为化名） 大家都在看今天，张伟丽成功卫冕：“那条金腰带就是我的”女人四十，惑不惑又如何？⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载请联系后台。
(Hong Chao, Ji Jun, Wang Sheng, Shen Bo, Huachen as an alias) Everybody is looking at today, and Zhang Wei-li has successfully defended her title: "That gold belt is mine.
点击图片，一键下单「营造学社」▼ 点击阅读原文，进入周刊书店，购买更多好书。
Why don't we go to a weekly bookshop and buy more good books Why don't you come over to our office?
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
泉州隔离酒店坍塌：被忽视的结构风险。
Quanzhou Isolated Hotel Collapse: Neglected Structural Risk.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "泉州隔离酒店坍塌：被忽视的结构风险";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Quanzhou's isolated hotel collapse: neglected structural risk & quot;;
var msg_desc = "危险的信号早已通过某种方式进行传递，却始终未被重视，直至大楼轰然倒下。
var msg _ desc = & quot; dangerous signals have been relayed in some way or other, but never heeded until the building collapsed.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '今天，张伟丽成功卫冕：“那条金腰带就是我的”',。
Today, Zhang Weili successfully defended her crown: "That gold belt was my" and & apos; s.
subject_name: '三联生活周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '女人四十，惑不惑又如何？',。
What about women at forty? & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & qu
subject_name: '三联生活周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
