封闭社区并隔离返京人员，能遏制病毒蔓延吗？。
Can the closure of communities and the isolation of people returning to Beijing stem the spread of the virus?
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 活粒。
The following article comes from living grains.
Author 活粒。
Author live granules.
活粒。
Live granules.
联动三医，桥接资本，直达健康。
Connect three medicine, bridge capital, directly to health.
数百万人的返京潮将至，北京加强防控是情理之中。
With millions of people heading back to Beijing, it makes sense for Beijing to step up its control.
但将回来的人不加区分地拒之门外或自行隔离，令本该叫好的措施变了味儿文 |《财经》记者 信娜 孙爱民 实习记者 朱贺编辑 | 王小封闭社区。
But the indiscriminate exclusion or isolation of those who will return has changed the tone of what was supposed to be a good measure; Caijing reporter Sinai Sun Aimin intern Zhu He & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;
春节后，面对数百万人从各地陆续返回北京，为遏制新型冠状病毒传播蔓延，北京开出了防疫新对策，且迅速层层推广。
After the Spring Festival, in the face of millions of people from all over Beijing, to curb the spread of the new coronavirus, Beijing issued a new anti-epidemic strategy, and quickly spread layer upon layer.
2020年1月31日，北京市新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控工作新闻发布会的最新信息是，新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎暂没有在北京的社区中形成传播。
On January 31, 2020, the latest information from the press conference on the prevention and control of pneumonia related to the new coronavirus infection in Beijing is that pneumonia from the new coronavirus infection has not yet spread to the community in Beijing.
截至1月31日14时，北京市已累计确诊病例139例，其中死亡1例，出院5例。
As of 14: 00 on January 31, 139 cases have been confirmed in Beijing, including one death and five discharge cases.
各企业复工在即，返程高峰将到来，如何遏制病毒在社区间传播，北京正面临治理难题。
With businesses back to work and a return peak looming, Beijing is facing governance challenges over how to stem the spread of the virus between communities.
这其中，封闭社区被认为是最有效和成本最低的方式。
Of these, closed communities are considered to be the most effective and least costly.
北京市委组织部副部长张革在1月31日的发布会上说，社区防控的重点在基层一线。
'The focus of community prevention and control is at the grass-roots level, 'Zhang Ge, vice minister of organization for the Beijing municipal government, said at a press conference on January 31.
但基层一线执行的防控措施却有所走样。
But the grass-roots implementation of the prevention and control measures have changed somewhat.
王木是北京顺义区后沙峪青岚花园西区租户，春节后要返回京开始工作，正面临“有家不能回”的局面。
Wang Mu is a western tenant of post-Shunyi Garden in Shunyi District of Beijing. He will return to work after the Spring Festival and is facing the "no return home" situation.
“准备和单位请假”，她说。
"Prepare and ask for leave of absence," she said.
《财经》记者了解到，虽然没将回来的人拒之门外，但一些社区要求返京人员自行隔离14天。
Caijing reporter learned that although the people did not return to the door, but some communities asked people back to Beijing to isolate themselves for 14 days.
此前曾有一些酒店、旅馆等拒绝接纳来自武汉的市民，一些地方市民甚至围攻鄂A牌照私家车。
There have been a number of hotels, hotels and other refused to accept citizens from Wuhan, some local citizens even besieged E-E-license private cars.
2020年1月29日国家卫健委召开的发布会上，北京市方庄社区卫生服务中心主任吴浩说，我们共同的敌人是疾病、是病毒，而不是武汉人。
'Our common enemy is disease, the virus, not Wuhan, 'said Wu Hao, director of the Fangzhuang community health service center in Beijing at a news conference on January 29, 2020.
自我隔离与拒之门外春节后王木收到了复工的通知，但她不得不请假了。
After the Spring Festival, Wang Mu received notice to return to work, but she had to take leave of absence.
作为返京人员，她无法进入租住的小区，顺义区后沙峪青岚花园西区。
As a return to Beijing, she was unable to enter the rented area, Shunyi District after Shayu Lan Garden West.
1月30号王木接到一则电话称，该小区已经“被封”，在京人员可以办理出入证进出小区，返京人员不得进入小区，需要自行安排住宿，恢复时间暂未说明。
January 30 Wang Mu received a telephone call said that the community has been "sealed", in Beijing personnel can go through pass in and out of the small area, returned to Beijing personnel are not allowed to enter the small area, need to make their own accommodation, recovery time has not been explained.
1月31日晚间，《财经》记者致电青岚花园物业公司，工作人员证实了封闭小区的说法，称“所有的返京人员都不得入内，业主也不可以”，同时指出这是由所属顺义区后沙峪乡政府给出的规定。
During the night of Jan. 31, Caijing reporter phoned Lan Lan Garden Property Company, staff confirmed the closure of the residential area, said that "all the people back to Beijing, owners can not enter," and pointed out that this is the Shunyi District, the township government gave a name.
北京市民热线“12345”某工作人员说，该中心不登记乡政府的规定，同时指出“北京市目前没有规定具体封村的政策。
A staff member of the Beijing Citizen's Hotline "12345" said the center does not register the township government, noting that "Beijing does not have a specific village closure policy at present.
”不能入住的返京人员，最好能提供租房合同、居住证等证明是该小区正经租户的材料，可以帮忙向上反映。
"Unable to stay in Beijing personnel, it is best to provide rental contracts, residence permits and other evidence of the real tenants in the area, can help upward reflection.
位于北京昌平区的天通苑社区，常住人口上百万，是北京市人口较为密集的大社区，凭借低廉的房租吸引了大批外来人员租住。
The Tian Tong Yuan community in Changping District of Beijing, home to millions of residents, is one of the city's most densely populated neighborhoods, attracting large numbers of people to rent with low rents.
虽然并未如传闻一样禁止外来人员入内，但返城回京人员需要“自行隔离”。
Although not as rumored to prohibit the entry of foreign personnel, but back to Beijing personnel need to "self-isolation."
天通北苑社区居委会工作人员称，目前只要求外地返京人员在家自行隔离十四天，“进京之后需要向居委会报备，同时需要加入群聊，每天在群里报备体温，并没有说不让进京。
At present, only non-Beijing residents are required to isolate themselves for 14 days at home. "After visiting Beijing, they need to report to the neighborhood committee and join a group chat, report body temperature in the group every day, and do not say no to Beijing.
”对于隔离期间的居民活动情况，该工作人员建议居民减少出门，但并未完全禁止居民进出，“能不出门就不出门，如果有发烧、咳嗽等症状出现，可以跟居委会报备一下，然后再去医院筛查。
As for the movement of residents during the isolation period, the staff advised residents to leave their homes less often than not, not to leave the house altogether, "not to go out without going out, and to report to the neighborhood committee if symptoms of fever, cough, etc., before going to the hospital for screening.
”北京另一小区则要求严格，若返京人员不能提供证明材料，有可能被“拒之门外”。
Another small area in Beijing is demanding strict rules, and people returning to Beijing may be turned away if they fail to provide proof.
1月31日，北京市昌平区西湖新村的物业公司工作人员告诉《财经》记者，住在该小区的未返京人员最好暂缓回京，如必须回来，尽量让工作单位提供食宿。
On January 31, property management staff of Xishuxin Village in Changping District of Beijing told Caijing that it would be better for those who have not returned to Beijing to stay in Beijing.
该小区已要求返京住户“在家禁足14天”，不能出行。
The area has asked residents back to Beijing to "stay at home for 14 days" and not travel.
“禁足”期间需要跟物业工作人员定期汇报体温。
Regularly report body temperature to property staff during the "Foot Prohibition" period.
如需生活用品，可以联系物业工作人员帮忙购买，并按物业公司给出的价目表付钱。
For daily necessities, you can contact the property staff to help purchase and pay according to the price list given by the property company.
然而，顺利入住北京昌平区西湖新村小区并不容易。
However, it is not easy to move into Xishuxin Village in Changping District of Beijing.
该物业公司工作人员称，征求了全小区业主的意见，不建议返京租户入住。
Property company staff said that the owner of the entire small district to consult, do not recommend to return to Beijing tenants to live.
上述工作人员表示，若返京住户是租户，需联系房东签署承诺书，承诺书中要写明租房人的姓名、身份证号和电话，并保证“以上人员身体状况由房东监管负责，如果出现任何问题，由房东和租房人员承担一切后果”。
If the tenant is a tenant, the tenant should contact the landlord to sign the undertaking, which should include the name, identity number and telephone number of the tenant and guarantee that "the landlord will be responsible for the condition of the above-mentioned persons and that the landlord and tenant will bear all the consequences in the event of any problems."
若返京人员是该小区业主，则需提供身份证、房产证等证明身份的材料才能入住，但同样也需要隔离。
If the return to Beijing staff is the owner of the small district, identity cards, such as documents to prove the identity of the arrival, but also the need for isolation.
若住户来自湖北，即使出示相关证明材料也不可以进入小区。
If the residents come from Hubei, even if the production of relevant supporting materials can not enter the community.
不过，家住海淀区的北京市民张文对封闭小区之举表示理解。
However, Beijing resident Zhang Wenwen, who lives in Haidian District, understands the move.
“如果现在从外地回来，我也不想被隔离，这对返京务工人员来说成本太高了。
"I don't want to be quarantined if I come back from the outside world right now, which is too expensive for the returning workers.
但是作为住户来说，我们当然希望回来的人都是健康的，不然一直待在家里的人多危险。
But as households, of course we want the people back to be healthy, or those who stay at home are dangerous.
”要不要把门关上早在1月23日，北京朝阳区某小区便发布了封闭管理的通知。
To close the door As early as January 23, a neighborhood in Beijing's Chaoyang district issued a notice of closure.
但彼时该小区仅要求外来人员进行登记，并未完全封闭小区。
At that time, however, the community was only required to be registered by outsiders and did not completely close the area.
通知提到，“疫情期间，禁止外卖送餐人员进入公寓范围，禁止其他快递人员进入各楼公共电梯厅范围”，在小区内实行每天两次消毒、提醒外来人员登记、返京人员测体温与登记等。
"During the outbreak, takeaway food carriers were banned from entering apartment areas, other couriers were barred from entering the areas of public elevators in buildings," the notice said.
1月29日，北京海淀区某小区大门紧闭。
On January 29, the door of a small district in Haidian district of Beijing was closed.
门口张贴的通知显示，“为了您和他人的安全，从即日起暂行关闭小区南门……社区居民进出请走北门”。
"For your safety and that of others," the notice posted at the door said. "For your safety and that of others, temporarily close the south gate of the neighbourhood...
唯一开着的大门处处设防，需通过人脸识别加刷卡才能进入。
The only open door is guarded and requires face recognition and a swipe card to enter.
该处志愿者说，识别的信息得提前录入，包括居民的身份证号码、住址和联系方式。
Volunteers said the identification information must be entered in advance, including the identity card number, address and contact details of residents.
《财经》记者已与该社区主任约定见面，因不知其具体办公地点徘徊不前的2分钟内，一位拎着菜的居民警惕询问：“你来找谁”？另一位居民也来追问所来何意，直到看着记者进入社区办公室才作罢。
Caijing has made an appointment with the community director, but within two minutes of his halting office, a resident carrying the food asked warily, "Whom are you looking for?" Another resident asked him what he wanted until the reporter entered the community office.
社区工作人员告诉《财经》记者，1月27日该小区所处社区开始封闭管理，这是连续3天内收到的第4次紧急通知。
Community workers told Caijing that on January 27, the neighborhood began a closure, the fourth emergency notice received in three days.
记者看到工作群内的消息显示，“封闭小区”，“能封闭成什么程度就到什么程度”。
The reporter sees inside the work group the message shows, "encloses the community", "can seal as many degree as possible".
北京某街道负责人说，防止病毒传播，封闭社区是最有效成本最低的方式。
A street official in Beijing says sealing communities is the most cost-effective way to prevent the virus from spreading.
1月28日，位于北京丰台区南三环的某小区仍对外开放，非社区居民可自由穿行。
On January 28, a small area in the southern ring of the Fengtai district of Beijing remained open to the public, allowing non-residents to travel freely.
但小区保安向《财经》记者透露，已收到加强小区进出人员管理的通知，尽量关闭小区大门，没法关闭的门需由专人看护。
But the residential security to "Caijing" reporter, has received to strengthen the management of the entry and exit of people in and out of the notice, as close as possible cell doors, can not close the door need to be attended by someone.
要知道每个人从哪里来“你好，请问什么时候回京，从哪里回来，是否去过湖北，或与到过湖北的人有接”。
Do you know where everyone comes from Hello, When do you return to Beijing, Where do you come back from, Have you ever been to Hubei, or met someone who has been to Hubei?
1月29日上午10点，某社区办公室内，工作人员不断拨打电话重复上述话，他还要重复多次。
At 10 a.m. on 29 January, in a community office, staff members repeatedly made telephone calls repeating the above-mentioned statement, which he repeated several times.
因为这一天，该社区需与区域内所有未返京居民取得联系。
Because of this day, the community needs to contact all the remaining residents of the area.
他们得获知所有人的返京时间和地点，重点字眼是武汉或者湖北。
They need to know when and where everyone will be back in Beijing, with Wuhan or Hubei as the key words.
放下电话，上述工作人员长呼一口气，那些人“近期不回来”。
Put down the phone, the staff members take a long breath, those people "will not come back soon."
一天前，他们得到了最新的要求，“所有社区完成自己总户数70%的摸排”。
A day ago, they were given the latest demand that "all communities complete a 70 percent mapping of their homes."
上述社区某负责人告诉《财经》记者，还有15%的门户，要么没人，要么联系不上。
A community official told Caijing that 15% of the portals were either empty or inaccessible.
“这15%才是最重要的，可能存在隐患”。
"These 15% are the most important and there may be potential pitfalls."
一位街道负责人说，上级给他们的要求是，“每一个新回来的人，都必须知道他从哪里回来的”。
"Every new comer has to know where he came from," said one street official.
1月23日，该社区第一次得到防控新冠肺炎的消息，需到街道参加例行的节前教育会。
On 23 January, for the first time, the community received news of the prevention and control of pneumonia, requiring regular pre-festival education in the streets.
“第三项提到了病毒防控，要求排查武汉返回人员”，一位参会的社工说，会上没有特别重点强调。
"The third mentioned the prevention and control of the virus and called for the identification of Wuhan returnees," said a social worker who attended the meeting.
当日下午，该工作人员收到了街道转发的文件，其上为武汉返京人员名单及联系方式，“要求100%的联系到，确认位置及身体情况”。
On the afternoon of the same day, the staff member received street-forwarded documents containing the names and contact details of Wuhan Returning Beijing.
一位街道负责人嗅到了事情的严重，此前，她觉得新冠肺炎离北京很遥远。
A street executive sniffed at the severity of the situation after feeling that the new crown pneumonia was far from Beijing.
“这个摸排的体量很大”，她曾参与SARS防控，“SARS之后，还没有这样要求过”，她说。
"The size of the platoon is huge," she said, adding that she had been involved in SARS prevention and control, "not since SARS," she said.
看似突然的疫情令工作人员措手不及，一位社区负责人前几日托朋友在外地购买医用口罩。
What appeared to be a sudden outbreak took staff by surprise, and a community leader a few days ago asked friends to buy medical masks in other places.
需要发给社区志愿者时，该负责人坚持自己去，“我得保证给到志愿者，不然口罩可能被其他居民抢光了”，他说，他手上也就50个口罩。
"I have to promise to give them to the volunteers, or they could be taken away by the rest of the population," he said, adding that he had 50 masks on his hand.
该社区先后收到了5批核查名单，范围开始扩大。
The community received five successive rounds of verification lists, which began to expand in scope.
1月25日街道通知，从当天开始，疫情排查人员从武汉扩大到整个湖北省。
January 25, the street notice, from the same day, the outbreak of disease investigators from Wuhan to the entire Hubei Province.
两天后，措辞变为“地毯式排查”；之后又追加人数要求，“排查70%的住户”。
Two days later, the wording changed to "blanket checking"; it was followed by a request to "screen 70 per cent of households."
1月29日，此前并未参与排查的一位海淀公职人员被要求立即上岗，给他分到的是两个公司院落。
On 29 January, a Haidian public official who had not previously been involved in the inventory was asked to take up his duties immediately and was assigned two company compounds.
每个人都划分了更具体的范围，他告诉《财经》记者，需要负责封闭和排查。
Everyone had a more specific scope, he told Caijing, who was responsible for closures and screening.
两天前，孙兴夫妇从山东老家返京，回到位于朝阳区的家中。
Two days ago, Mr. and Mrs. Sun Hing returned to Beijing from their hometown in Shandong Province to their home in Chaoyang District.
还没收拾完行李，家里便有人敲门询问情况，来人是街道派出所与社区居委会工作人员。
Before finishing packing, someone knocked on the door and asked about the situation. It was from the street police station and neighborhood committee staff.
“老家邻居有从武汉回家过年的，从年前便开始隔离，后来全村开始封锁，我们为了回京上班便突破封锁回京了。
"When our neighbors came home from Wuhan to celebrate the Spring Festival, they began to be isolated a few years ago.
”孙兴推测，街道派出所应该是接到了老家市里打来的电话，“对我们重点盯防，要求我们在家自我隔离，还派了工作人员在大厅值班、给我们提供生活的便利。
"Sun Xing surmised that the street police station should have received a telephone call from his hometown." We are being watched, we are being asked to isolate ourselves at home, and we have people on duty in the lobby to provide us with conveniences.
”1月24日开始，气氛越来越紧张，上述海淀区公职人员回忆，这之前他们真没把武汉疫情和北京联系在一起。
The rising tensions that began on January 24 prompted officials in Haidian District to recall that they had not previously linked the Wuhan outbreak to Beijing.
（文中王木、张文、孙兴为化名。
(In the text Wang Mu, Zhang Wen, Sun Xingwei alias.
）新型冠状病毒疫情系列报道▷ 点击图片查看责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
The new coronavirus series Please click here to see RIA & # 45; & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
封闭社区并隔离返京人员，能遏制病毒蔓延吗？。
Can the closure of communities and the isolation of people returning to Beijing stem the spread of the virus?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "封闭社区并隔离返京人员，能遏制病毒蔓延吗？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "数百万人的返京潮将至，北京加强防控是情理之中。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; with millions of people about to return to Beijing, it makes sense for Beijing to tighten controls.
但将回来的人不加区分地拒之门外或自行隔离，令本该叫好的措施变了";。
But the indiscriminate exclusion or isolation of those who will return has changed & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
