在武汉送外卖的女人。
A woman who delivers food in Wuhan.
刘雀。
Liu Dao.
真实故事计划                      。
The real story plan.
真实故事计划。
The real story plan.
每天一个打动人心的原创真实故事。
An original and true story that touches the heart every day.
。
.
在武汉送外卖的女骑手多数在三四十岁，有的女儿和王紫薇一般大，她们在疫情中穿梭街巷，送餐食送急用物资。
Wuhan sent away the majority of female riders in the thirties and forties, some of the daughter and Wang Ziwei as big, they shuttle the streets in the epidemic, food delivery emergency supplies.
生于1995年的王紫薇说，戴上口罩，跨上电动车，就听不到别人问“女孩子怎么出来送外卖”。
Wearing a mask and getting on an electric car, Ms. Wang, who was born in 1995, couldn't hear people asking 'How do girls get out to take out?
二月中旬，骑手王紫薇到商家取餐时遇到一件小事。
In mid-February, the rider Wang Ziwei came to the merchant to pick up a small matter.
一个自称是同济医院医生的中年男人来买东西，在大门口看到她。
A middle-aged man claiming to be a doctor at Tongji Hospital came to shop and saw her at the gate.
“外面这么危险，你一个女孩子，怎么还出来跑外卖”，他语气严厉，“不要为了钱这么拼命！”她没回话，拿上餐走了。
"It's so dangerous outside, you a girl, how come out to run take-out," he said harshly. "Don't work so hard for the money!" She did not reply, took the meal and went away.
她有点懵，不知该说什么。
She had no idea what to say.
她突然想起有一天，自己在路上跑，陆续和四五个女骑手交错而过时，也感到意外：疫情这么严重，怎么她们也出门干活？现在她觉得，有什么差别呢，戴上头盔，跨上电动车，就听不到别人问“女孩子怎么出来送外卖”。
It occurred to her that one day she was running along the road, staggered with four or five female riders, and was surprised: how could they go out to work when the epidemic was so serious?
回想起来，警报早就拉响。
In retrospect, the alarm went off.
王紫薇记得去年12月底的一天，一个客户下单了很多口罩和板蓝根。
Ms. Wang remembers one day at the end of December, when a client ordered a lot of masks and Banlangen.
她赶到药店，发现这两样东西瞬间卖空了。
When she got to the drugstore, she found they were short.
她翻手机，留意到不少华南海鲜市场传出肺炎感染的消息。
She rummaged her mobile phone and noticed the news of pneumonia in many South China seafood markets.
当天下午她请了个假，回家路上跑好几家药店，买到几袋医用口罩和板蓝根。
That afternoon she asked for a holiday, and on her way home she ran to several pharmacies and bought bags of medical masks and Banlangen.
这事没头没尾地过去了，没有后续消息。
The matter went by endlessly, and there was no further news.
人们紧张了两天，又摘下口罩。
People were nervous for two days before taking off their masks.
等到再次慌张，都快过年了。
Waiting until once again panic, are almost New Year.
1月23日一早，王紫薇睁眼就看到手机上的封城消息，一下子清醒过来。
January 23 early morning, Wang Ziwei opened her eyes to see the phone on the closure of the news, suddenly wake up.
就在前一天晚上，她还和好久不见的闺蜜相约，下班后聚一聚。
Just the night before, she had been seeing her long-lost best friend, getting together after work.
有那么严重吗？她错愕。
Is it that serious? She was astounded.
没过几天，她出门上班，看到家附近的大路口都被封上了。
A few days later, she went out to work and saw that the intersection near her home had been sealed.
街上一个人都没有，像一座“空城”。
There was no one on the street, like an "empty city."
王紫薇骑车奔驰，好像整条路都是自己的。
Wang Ziwei rode around as if the whole road was his own.
武汉的马路静悄悄。
The road in Wuhan is quiet.
路上只剩运送物资的货车和穿梭的外卖骑手。
All that's left on the road are trucks carrying supplies and shuttling takeaway riders.
救护车比以往多了许多，呼啸而过，急迫的笛音穿过街道，听得人心里凄凉。
Ambulances were more numerous than ever, whistling past, their urgent flutes traversing the streets, and they heard desolation in their hearts.
有一天早上，王紫薇往一个老小区送单，爬上二楼，刚把东西放到客人家门口，扭头就看见旁边门洞走下来几个人，抬着一副担架。
One morning, Wang Ziwei sent bills to an old residential area, climbed to the second floor, just put things in front of the guests, turned to see the next door hole down a few people, carrying a stretcher.
她吓坏了，一溜烟窜下来，车也来不及骑，一口气跑到老远。
Shocked, she darted down, too late for the car to ride, and ran all the way.
她远远看着，等那辆白色的面包车开走有一会儿了，才走回来，用消毒水把整辆车仔仔细细擦了一遍。
She watched from a distance, waiting for the white van to drive away for a while before she came back and carefully wiped the car with disinfectant.
图|女骑手给自己的爱车消毒整整一天，那个画面在她脑海里挥之不去。
The picture of a woman rider disinfecting her beloved car all day long haunts her mind.
没想到第二天，她又碰上了住宅楼下停着黑车。
Unexpectedly, the next day, she encountered a residential building under the parking black car.
她掉头退到马路边，给客户打电话，说楼下有“那种车”，等车走了立刻给您送过去。
She turned back to the side of the road and called the customer. She said there was "that kind of car" downstairs and sent it to you as soon as it was gone.
对方立刻明白了。
The other party immediately understood.
他说，没事，你路上小心。
He said, It's okay. Be careful on your way.
王紫薇有点害怕了。
Crape Myrtle Wang is a little scared.
她在工作群里问：“碰上这个，是不是不大好啊？”同事们你一言我一语地开起玩笑。
"Isn't it nice to meet this?" she asks in her work group. "Colleagues joked as they spoke.
她心情就好转过来，不那么忧心忡忡了。
She began to feel better and less worried.
在她所在的美团武汉利济路站点，还在岗位上的十位骑手里，王紫薇是唯一的女孩。
In her group Wuhan Lijie Lu site, but also in the post of the ten riders, Wang Ziwei is the only girl.
其他骑手大多三四十岁，年纪大点儿的，孩子都跟她一般大了。
Most of the other riders were in their thirties and forties, and the older ones were as old as she was.
她是站里的妹妹。
She is the sister of the station.
1985年生的刘俊平是站里的姐姐，她是美团武汉武昌火车站站长。
Liu Junping, born in 1985, is the elder sister of the station. She is the stationmaster of Wuhan Wuchang Railway Station.
站里的骑手都是年轻小伙子，最小的才19岁。
The riders in the station were young men, the youngest of whom was only 19.
有的管刘俊平叫“刘姐”，有的直接喊“老大”。
Some of Liu Junping called "Liu Jie", some directly called "eldest son."
过年前，她安排好了值班名单，一切妥当，准备回孝感老家。
New Year's Eve, she arranged the watch list, everything is in place, ready to return home filial piety.
1月22日，武汉隔日封城的消息在微信群、朋友圈一传十十传百地扩散开。
On January 22, Wuhan every other day closure of the news in the micro-groups, friends and spread from one to another.
骑手们有些慌了。
The riders got a little nervous.
在站里，家人一个一个打电话过来，急吼吼地喊儿子回家。
At the station, one by one, the family called and yelled for their son to come home.
小伙子接完电话，扭头看她，“老大，怎么搞？”“你们怕什么？我不是在这儿嘛！“刘俊平不多说废话。
The young man answered the phone and looked at her, "Boss, what's the matter?" "What are you afraid of? I'm not here!" Liu Junping said nothing more.
她就是这么临时决定留下的。
That's how she decided to stay.
刘俊平早就开始做准备了。
Liu Junping had already begun to make preparations.
一月起始，华南海鲜市场关闭，抖音和朋友圈传播着吃蝙蝠的视频，还没专家站出来告诉大家，肺炎有可能人传人。
Since January, the South China seafood market has closed. Chatter and friends have spread videos of bats, and no expert has come forward to tell you that pneumonia may be passed from person to person.
刘俊平想，平时没吃那可怕东西，应该没事。
Liu Junping thought, usually did not eat that terrible thing, should be all right.
不过，她没有放松警惕。
However, she did not relax her vigilance.
刘俊平在家里是长女，从小带弟弟妹妹，惯于操心。
Liu Junping is the eldest daughter at home, younger brother and sister, used to worry about.
站里几十号弟兄，她不敢掉以轻心。
Dozens of brothers in the station, she dare not take it lightly.
她跑药店买了好些板蓝根、84消毒液和消毒酒精。
She ran to the drugstore and bought a lot of Banlangen, 84 disinfectant and disinfectant alcohol.
板蓝根挑的可是最贵的。
Banlangen picked the most expensive.
她要求骑手每天回站点必须喝两包板蓝根，说是为了“祛寒防感冒”。
She asked the rider to return to the site every day must drink two packs of blue root, said is to "quell cold".
不管有没有用，聊胜于无。
Whether it's good or not, it's better than nothing.
半大小伙子大大咧咧，脑子里缺根弦。
Half the boy is careless and has no clue in his head.
刘俊平天天盯着。
Liu Junping stared every day.
你头盔一摘，她冲好的热腾腾的药就递到跟前，逼着喝。
As soon as you take your helmet off, the hot medicine she has washed comes up to you and forces you to drink.
那是一个多月前站里的场景了。
It was in the station a little over a month ago.
很快，情况严峻起来，每个人都自觉得很，量体温、戴口罩、爱心卡，一步不落。
Soon, the situation became critical and everyone felt very comfortable taking temperature, wearing masks, and loving cards.
1月23日封城后，没过两天，全市禁止机动车出行。
Two days after the city was closed on January 23, no motor vehicles were allowed to travel.
刘俊平开车出去，街面空无一人，“好像空城”。
Liu Junping drove out of the street, empty, "like empty city."
她是做志愿者送物资去的。
She went as a volunteer to deliver goods.
参与志愿服务是件无需考虑的事情，她有车有驾照，力所能及的事，自然而然就做了。
Being a volunteer is not something to consider. She has a car and a driver's license. She does what she can.
喜欢越野的弟弟把她拉进一个志愿车队群，她一看，三百多号人。
Like cross-country brother pulled her into a group of volunteer convoys, she saw, more than 300 people.
用车信息时不时就甩进群里，有时候是接送医护人员，有时候是运捐助物资，后来还帮助送孕妇产检。
From time to time, information on the use of cars was dumped into the group, sometimes to transport paramedics, sometimes to donate goods, and later to assist in getting pregnant women tested.
一条消息丢过来，地点明确，附近的司机立即出动。
A message came in, the location was clear, and the driver in the vicinity called out immediately.
刘俊平运过口罩和两箱防护服。
Liu Junping carried a mask and two boxes of protective clothing.
车开到高速服务区，把物资搬进后备箱，往集中分配点运。
Drive to the high-speed service area, move supplies into the trunk and move to the central distribution point.
她看到一箱箱物资汇聚起来，堆成山，工作人员一一贴上标签，这个社区，那个医院。
She saw boxes of supplies piled up, mountains piled up, labeled by staff, the community, the hospital.
好像全国的希望都凝聚过来。
It seemed as if the hopes of the nation were gathering.
王紫薇1995年生，武汉本地人。
Wang Ziwei was born in 1995, Wuhan native.
家里五口人，奶奶，爸爸妈妈，还有一个妹妹。
There are five people in the family, grandma, father and mother, and a sister.
在成为骑手之前，她做文职，天天在办公室坐着。
Before becoming a rider, she worked as a civil servant and sat in the office every day.
那是一份机械静态的工作。
It's a mechanically static job.
每天领导发下文件，她整理归档，剩下的时间就是呆坐，百无聊赖地上网冲浪，等待下班。
Every day the leader sends out papers, she keeps her files in order, and the rest of her time is sitting around surfing the net, waiting to get off work.
文职工作薪水低，下班后和闺蜜们吃饭逛街，护肤化妆的瓶瓶罐罐买一买，几乎每月月光。
Civil service jobs are low-paying, after-work dinner with girls shopping, skin-care makeup bottles and cans to buy, almost monthly moonlight.
去年某一天，王紫薇的工资又花光了。
One day last year, Wang Ziwei's salary was gone again.
她想管父母要点，但没好意思开口。
She wanted to take care of her parents' point, but she didn't want to.
窘迫刺激她开始反思。
Embarrassed she began to reflect.
进入社会已经两三年了，怎么还像个小孩子，就知道玩，手头没一点积蓄。
Has entered the society for two or three years, how still like a child, know to play, have no savings on hand.
她突然担心自己就这么懒洋洋地把时间消磨下去。
She suddenly worried that she would just idle away her time.
改变从身体开始。
Change begins with the body.
王紫薇有点胖。
Wang Ziwei is a little fat.
她看到邻居减重70斤的成果，决定开始减肥。
She saw the result of losing 70 pounds in the neighborhood and decided to lose weight.
这需要高度自律。
This requires a high degree of self-discipline.
早餐她吃一只鸡蛋加一杯酸奶。
She had an egg and a cup of yogurt for breakfast.
每天午饭，她用家里最小的碗，盛一点米饭，盖上菜铺平。
Every day at lunch, she used the smallest bowl at home, filled with a little rice, covered with food.
晚餐比这还少一点。
Dinner is a little less than that.
此外，她坚持敷中药包。
In addition, she insisted on applying the medicine.
王紫薇克制自己的食欲，连续两三个月没有吃一顿火锅。
Wang Ziwei restrained her appetite, did not eat a hot pot for two or three months.
一个秋天过去，她从160斤瘦到了130斤。
One fall, she lost 160 pounds to 130 pounds.
去年11月，她在网上看到美团招聘骑手，工资很不错。
Last November, she saw on the Internet that she was looking for a rider for an American tour, which paid well.
她猜想这个工作很辛苦，正好可以锻炼自己。
She guessed that the job was hard enough to train herself.
骑手排班分为早中晚，出于安全考虑，站里不让女孩跑晚班。
The riders were divided into morning and night shifts, and the girls were not allowed to work at night for safety reasons.
王紫薇一开始跑中班，每天快十点上线送餐。
Wang Ziwei started to run the middle class, every day fast 10: 00 on the line to deliver meals.
大半个月后，她摸到了规律，中午午饭时间和下午六七点的晚饭时间，所有骑手都上线，很难排到单。
After most of the month she came to the rule that it was hard to get a single rider on line at lunchtime and at lunchtime, six or seven in the afternoon.
想比别人跑得多，必须在非饭点更加勤奋。
If you want to run more than others, you must be more diligent at non-meals.
于是她开始跑早班，七点出门，扣除吃饭时间，每天将近12小时都在路上。
So she began to run an early shift, leaving home at seven and deducting meals, nearly 12 hours a day on the road.
站里的另一个女骑手同样勤奋。
The other female rider in the station was equally diligent.
老同志说，你们两个女孩比男子还凶。
The old comrade said that you two girls are more vicious than the men.
图|刘俊平在送餐路上除了每个月的生理期，她很少休息。
Liu Junping seldom takes a rest while on the way to dinner except during her monthly physiology.
一个月跑下来，她挣的钱比原先坐办公室翻了一番。
After a month running down, she made twice as much money as she used to in the office.
那是对她努力的犒赏。
It was a reward for her efforts.
骑手工作彻头彻尾地改变了她的生活。
The rider's work completely changed her life.
她没有时间再和闺蜜逛街聚餐了。
She had no time for shopping and dining with her girlfriends.
每天头盔一戴，化妆也没必要了，不知不觉省下一笔化妆品开支。
Every day a helmet worn, makeup is not necessary, unwittingly save a sum of cosmetics expenses.
以前的生活空虚，下班回家就上线《绝地求生》，吃鸡消磨时间。
Life used to be empty, and when I came home from work, I'd go to Jedi for a living and eat chicken to kill time.
现在呢？到家累得恨不得倒头就睡。
What about now? I'm too tired to sleep.
不过，这么东奔西跑，不多吃点儿路上饿得慌，减肥计划因此暂时搁置。
However, so much running around, no more on the road hungry panic, the weight loss plan was put on hold.
可因为体力劳动消耗大，体重竟也没有反弹多少。
Can be because of physical labor consumption, the weight has not rebounded much.
王紫薇满意这样的状态，健康，有活力。
Crape myrtle Wang satisfied with such a state, health, vitality.
她感到充实。
She felt full.
刘俊平干这行的原因，就比较好笑了。
The reason why Liu Junping is in this line is more amusing.
她严重路痴。
She has a bad streak.
原先她在仙桃做销售，在行业里扎根多年，已经干到了销售经理。
She used to sell peaches, had been in the industry for years, and had worked as a sales manager.
两年半前，刘俊平遇上些打击，心一横，工作也辞了，人也离开了。
Two and a half years ago, Liu Junping encountered some blow, a horizontal heart, work also quit, people also left.
弟弟把她接到武汉散心。
Her younger brother connected her to Wuhan Sangxin.
刘俊平在小区住了大半个月，天天只会走南门。
Liu Junping lived in the community for most of half a month, only walking south every day.
有一天吃完海底捞，弟弟开车把她送到北门。
One day after eating bottom fishing, my brother drove her to the North Gate.
她懵了，只好凭着模糊的印象，沿一个方向走啊走，从北门进去，又从南门穿出，不知不觉往反方向走出五公里。
She had no choice but to walk in one direction with vague impressions, enter through the North Gate and through the South Gate, and unconsciously walk five kilometers in the opposite direction.
点外卖时，刘俊平看到APP上有地图导航，觉得送外卖正好可以认路，于是投简历应聘骑手。
When ordering take-out, Liu Junping saw APP map navigation, think delivery just can recognize the way, so put in a resume candidates.
这工作吧，“至少不会把自己整丢”。
Take the job, "at least not lose yourself."
刘俊平是军人的女儿，她不怕吃苦。
Liu Junping is the daughter of a soldier. She is not afraid of hardship.
她永远记得，成为骑手的第二天，她接到订单，农夫山泉28瓶矿泉水，整整两箱。
She will always remember that the day after becoming a rider, she received an order for 28 bottles of mineral water from Nongshan Springs, two whole cases.
配送地点在老式楼房的7楼，没有电梯。
The distribution site was on the seventh floor of the old building and there was no elevator.
她在楼下给客人打电话求助，接电话的是个老人，家里只有一个小孩。
She telephoned the guest downstairs for help. The caller was an old man with only one child in the house.
她咬咬牙，扛了一箱爬上七楼，又下来再扛一箱。
She gritted her teeth, climbed up the seventh floor in a crate, and came down to carry another case.
隔天起来，刘俊平浑身酸痛，往窗外一看，大暴雨。
The next day, Liu Junping all over aching, looking out of the window, heavy rain.
她真不想动，可站里人手不够，她又冒雨上了。
She didn't want to move, but the station was short of hands and she was in the rain again.
一天下来筋疲力竭。
An exhausting day.
她随手刷了下手机上的骑手排行榜，居然跃居第二。
She casually brushed down the list of riders on her mobile phone and jumped to number two.
小星标在榜单上闪着，可真好看啊。
The little star sign flashed on the list. It was really nice.
动力突然来了，她盯着第一名的紫色星星，心想，早晚给它摘下来。
The impulse came suddenly, and she stared at the first purple star, thinking, sooner or later, take it off.
排名第一的单王是个和他同龄的男人，家里负债，一天跑三个班。
The No. 1 singles king was a man his age, with a family in debt and three shifts a day.
他的那辆电动车，车后箱装满，两大罐怡宝矿泉水堆在前面，车把手还挂两袋包子，随时载得满满当当。
The back of his electric car was full, two jars of Jardine's mineral water piled up in front, and his handlebars were always full of bags.
为了跑赢他，刘俊平拼了命。
Liu Junping fought tooth and nail to win him.
人家休息，她也不停，一天十几个小时地跑。
They rested, and she did not stop running for more than ten hours a day.
一个多月后，她的排名刷到了第一。
More than a month later, she finished first in the rankings.
完成目标的感觉就一个字——爽。
The feeling of accomplishing the goal is just one word --- good.
图|刘俊平干起活来从不服输刘俊平性格爽快，跟站里的男骑手们称兄道弟。
Liu Junping never gave in to his work. Liu Junping is a cheerful person and a brother to the male riders at his station.
她做事利索，业绩突出，很快当了组长，后来又升到站长。
She was quick to do things, outstanding performance, soon became a group leader, and then promoted to station master.
站里的女孩不多，但个个做得很好。
There are not many girls in the station, but they all do well.
刘俊平发现，虽然体力不如男孩，但姑娘们做事认真，也更有恒心。
Liu Junping found that although physical strength is not as strong as boys, but girls do things seriously, but also more perseverance.
她们的沟通能力更强，很少接到客户投诉。
They have better communication skills and receive few complaints from clients.
有个女站长是幸运的，你随时能感受到她的贴心。
There is a female stationmaster is lucky, you can feel her intimate heart at any time.
刘俊平在站里给女孩备着红糖和暖宫贴。
Liu Junping prepared brown sugar and warm palace stickers for the girl at the station.
男孩们下了班，想打会儿游戏，她也陪着玩，输的那个人永远是她。
The boys left the class, want to play some games, she also accompanied the play, the loser is always her.
她就住在办公室后的小房子里，每天晚上，骑手们赖着聊天，聊得忘记时间，非得她赶人才散。
She lived in a small house behind the office, and every night the riders talked and forgot the time, and she had to send them away.
刘俊平就是有这个本事，把几十号骑手拢得像一家人。
Liu Junping is this ability, the dozens of riders like a family.
像在家一样，她还是那个让人信任的大姐，无论男骑手、女骑手，都愿意跟她聊天，家里有事也找她诉苦，和女朋友吵架也找她调解。
Like at home, she is the trusted elder sister, regardless of the male rider, female rider, would like to talk with her, the family also seek to complain to her, and her girlfriend quarrels with her mediation.
临近过年，站里安排加班，王紫薇不想在家闷着无聊，立刻答应了。
Near the New Year, the station arrangement overtime, Wang Ziwei did not want to bored at home, immediately agreed.
谁能想到，新冠肺炎疫情就跟天上砸下来似的，突然改变了一切。
Who would have thought that the outbreak of pneumonia in the New Crown would suddenly change everything as if it had fallen from the sky?
有一些年纪大的骑手，家里孩子不让出门，只能请假。
There are older riders whose children are not allowed to go out and only have to ask for leave.
人手更紧张了。
My hands are getting tighter.
王紫薇照常上班，几乎没有过犹豫。
Wang Ziwei went to work as usual, almost without hesitation.
她的想法很简单，答应好的事就得做到。
Her idea is simple. If you promise good things, you do them.
1月27号那天晚上回到家，王紫薇有点头痛，她的鼻子塞住了，声音也变得嘶哑。
Back home on the night of January 27, Wang had a headache and her nose was stuffed up and her voice became hoarse.
她有点担心，跟站长请了两天假。
She was a little worried and asked the stationmaster for two days' leave.
所幸只是普通的伤风感冒，很快就康复了。
Luckily it was just a common cold and soon recovered.
第三天一早，她照常下楼骑车。
The next morning, she went downstairs as usual to ride.
一摸荷包，钥匙不见了。
One touch of the purse and the key was gone.
她给家里打电话，妈妈这才“招供”，钥匙被她藏起来了，不许她出门上班。
When she called home, the mother "confessed," the key was hidden by her and she was not allowed to go out to work.
王紫薇没有孩子气地大吵大闹。
Crape Myrtle Wang had no childish outburst.
她好好跟妈妈讲，站里就这么些人手，每个人都排满了单，她不上，别人就得替她承担。
She told her mother that there were so many people in the station, that everyone was full of tickets, and that if she didn't, the others would have to bear it for her.
她当着妈妈面给站长打电话，一番安抚保证，总算劝说妈妈交出了车钥匙。
She called the station master in front of her mother, reassured her mother and persuaded her to give her car keys.
王紫薇可以理解妈妈的担忧。
Crape Myrtle Wang can understand her mother's worries.
也许每天从她踏出家门那秒开始，妈妈的心就提起来了。
Maybe every day from the moment she stepped out of the house, her mother's heart lifted.
她不敢给女儿打电话，怕影响她骑车，又惴惴不安。
She was afraid to call her daughter for fear that it would interfere with her ride.
每天下午两点左右，王紫薇会接到家里的电话。
Around two o'clock every afternoon, Wang gets a call from home.
可能打这个电话之前，她妈妈已经忍了一上午。
Maybe her mother had been holding out for the whole morning before making the call.
还有一天，王紫薇突然接到婶婶的电话，听说她在跑单，劈头盖脸一顿骂，“这个时候你还往外跑，家里还有个老奶奶”。
Another day, Wang Ziwei suddenly received a phone call from her aunt, heard that she was running the bill, head and face scolded, "this time you still run out, there is an old grandmother at home."
王紫薇压力很大。
Crape Myrtle Wang is under pressure.
事实上，90多岁的奶奶，她一直挂在心上。
As a matter of fact, Grandma in her 90s has always been in her heart.
她极其谨慎，除了戴好口罩，每送完一单，她都会挤一点免洗的消毒洗手液清洗双手。
She was extremely cautious, except for wearing a mask, she would squeeze a little scrub-free hand sanitizer to wash her hands after each delivery.
她在家门外放了一瓶消毒水，进门前总要全身上下喷一遍。
She left a bottle of disinfectant outside her house and sprayed it all over her body before entering.
为了把手够不着的后背也消毒，她像喷香水那样，将消毒水喷在空中，在洒落的喷雾里转圈。
In order to disinfect the back of her hands, she sprayed disinfectant in the air like perfume, circling it in spray.
刘俊平不敢让老家的老母亲知道，她还在上班，每次打电话都连哄带骗。
Liu Junping dare not let the old mother in her hometown know that she is still at work, every time she calls even coax.
她已经很久没见到女儿了。
She hasn't seen her daughter for a long time.
女儿和孩子爸在仙桃，原本答应好过年接她回孝感老家，这下又食言了。
Daughter and the father in the peach, originally promised to take her back home filial piety, this time again reneged.
孩子十岁了，在电话里哭闹，她在电话这头哄。
The child is ten years old, crying on the phone, she is coaxing on the phone.
晚上收完工，骑手们都散了。
When the work was finished in the evening, the riders dispersed.
刘俊平会走出来，在门口站一会儿。
Liu Junping will come out and stand at the door for a while.
原本嘈杂的人声、烧烤摊烟熏火燎的味道，统统没了。
The noise of the original noise, barbecue stand smoke fire smell, all gone.
她突然觉得凄凉。
She suddenly felt desolate.
这个城市也太安静了。
The city is too quiet.
图|送外卖的女人总能给人力量二月初有一天，王紫薇接到送往武广一所小学的单子，送的是良品铺子的一大袋零食。
One day in early February, Ms. Wang received a list of snacks sent to a primary school in Wuguang. She was given a large bag of snacks from a good-quality goods store.
她取完餐，往学校骑，路上接到了客户的电话。
After she finished her meal and rode to school, she got a call from her client on the way.
“我是武汉会展中心方舱医院的医生”，电话里是位男士，他说，“你别慌。
"I'm a doctor at the Fang Cao Hospital of Wuhan Convention and Exhibition Center," said a man on the phone.
你不用来医院，就放到学校门口。
If you don't come to the hospital, put it in front of the school.
学校离我们这儿只隔着一条街，我们的人过去拿就行。
The school is only a block away from ours, and our people can just take it.
你放心，我们出来的时候，全身都消毒了。
You can rest assured that when we came out, we were all sterilized.
不会带出病毒”。
Do not bring out the virus. "
医生的语气很镇定。
The doctor's voice was calm.
他说不用担心，王紫薇就真的放心了。
He said do not worry, Wang Ziwei really relieved.
学校大门紧闭，一位女士骑着自行车出现了，王紫薇向她招手，自行车默契地隔着几米停下。
The school gate is closed, a woman on a bicycle appeared, Wang Wei waved to her, the bike tacit across a few meters to stop.
王紫薇大声跟她确认了手机尾号，把袋子放到门卫室前的地上，骑着电动车退开。
Wang confirmed the phone's tail number loudly, put the bag on the ground in front of the guard room, and rode back on an electric car.
女士才上前取东西，挥手向她致谢。
The lady came forward to pick up the things and waved her thanks.
能给医护人员送东西，王紫薇挺高兴的。
She was very happy to be able to deliver things to the paramedics.
她每天看疫情动态，好像关注着医生护士们在前线的战况。
She watches the situation every day, as if she were watching doctors and nurses on the front lines.
她的表姐就是一位一线护士。
Her cousin is a first-line nurse.
表姐已经一个多月没有回家了，住在医院安排的隔离宾馆。
Cousin has not been home for more than a month and lives in a secluded hotel arranged by the hospital.
王紫薇每天下班后都要跟她聊几句，问一问她人好不好。
Wang Ziwei talks to her every day after work and asks her how she is doing.
表姐总往好的方面说，让她不用担心。
My cousin always said on the bright side that she shouldn't worry.
刘俊平则直接报名参加了医护人员送餐志愿队。
Liu Junping has signed up directly to join the volunteer medical team.
防护服和消毒液备在车里，小心翼翼，全副武装。
The protective clothing and disinfectant were in the car, carefully armed.
图|每次送餐都要消毒有一次跑中南医院跑，给外地援鄂医疗队送餐。
AT & # 160; & # 45; Every meal delivered must be sterilized. Once a hospital ran to the south central hospital to deliver meals to overseas medical teams.
她和同事拖着一车一百多份盒饭进医院大门。
She and her colleagues dragged more than a hundred boxes of rice into the hospital gate.
对面下来几个医护人员，也穿着防护服，一边挥着胳膊阻止他们上前，一边喊：“我们这儿是重灾区，尽量离我们远一点”。
Several paramedics, also wearing protective clothing, waved their arms to prevent them from approaching, shouting: "We are a serious disaster area, as far as possible away from us."
他们看着刘俊平把餐品放到大厅分诊台，一直退到玻璃门外，才上前取餐。
They watched as Liu Junping put the food on the foyer and retreated to the glass door before reaching for his meal.
刘俊平把防护服脱下扔了，全身消毒后回到站点。
Liu Junping threw off his protective clothing and returned to the site after disinfection.
一看手机，收到了医疗队主任的好友申请。
A look at the mobile phone, received the medical team director's friend application.
他说：“辛苦你们，非常感谢”。
"Thank you very much for your hard work," he said.
他还发来一张照片，是刘俊平和同事拖着盒饭进医院的画面。
He also sent a picture of Liu Junping and his colleagues dragging boxes of rice into the hospital.
奔驰的骑手像城市的血管。
Mercedes-Benz riders are like the veins of the city.
城市停摆时，居民们被困在家里，骑手们成了唯一连接外界的媒介，他们更重要了。
As the city stops, residents are trapped in their homes and riders become the only medium of communication with the outside world. They are even more important.
持续一个多月，刘俊平站里每天送出900多单，兄弟们一天都没有休息。
More than a month, Liu Junping station every day to send out more than 900 orders, brothers did not rest a day.
从早跑到晚，连吃饭时间都没有。
From dawn to dusk, there was no time to eat.
她买了一批小面包，往他们车箱里塞。
She bought a loaf of bread and stuffed it in their trunk.
时不时她就骑车出门跑单，分担大家压力。
From time to time she would ride out on her bike and share the stress.
可是，她的名字一跳上骑手排行榜，微信群里，兄弟们就炸：“让你别跑别跑，你又跑！”这种时候，她感到幸福。
But when her name jumped on the rider charts and her brothers blew up in the crowd, "Don't run, you run!" she felt happy.
在特殊时期，小伙子们突然都长大了，没一个掉链子。
In special times, young men suddenly grow up without losing a chain.
有骑手累得不行了，找她请假。
The rider is too tired to ask for leave of absence.
她说，“情况你也知道，想休你就休”，说完看着他。
She said, "You know the situation, want to leave you," and looked at him.
请假的人不说话，想了几秒钟，来一句，“不休了”。
The man on leave did not speak; he thought for a few seconds, then said, "Never mind."
有那么几天武汉下大雪，根本无法出行。
There were days of heavy snow in Wuhan, unable to travel.
商家体谅骑手，下午六点多就关闭了平台。
The business, understanding the rider, closed the platform at six in the afternoon.
刘俊平给骑手们放假，自己跑完剩下的预订单。
Liu Junping gave the riders a holiday and ran through the rest of the advance order.
电动车在雨雪里跑，手套全部打湿，双手冰冷刺骨，很快刘俊平连一点知觉都没有了。
Electric cars in the rain and snow run, gloves all wet, cold hands piercing, Liu Junping soon no consciousness.
她想，再遇到这种天气，骑手们怎么办啊。
What would the riders do in such weather, she thought.
正好看到一家小卖店还开着门，她赶紧钻进去买手套。
Just in time to see a shop open the door, she rushed in to buy gloves.
以往4块钱一双的厨房橡胶手套，涨价到了10块。
The price of a pair of four-dollar kitchen rubber gloves went up to $10.
她一口气买了十二双。
She bought twelve pairs at a stretch.
刘俊平不知道这样辛苦的日子还要撑多久。
Liu Junping does not know how long these hard days will last.
她买了一个大电饭锅，炖猪蹄汤、鸡汤。
She bought a large electric rice cooker, stewed pig's feet soup, chicken soup.
骑手们陆续收工，回来一个，喝一碗，喝完就撤。
The riders stopped working, came back, drank a bowl, drank it, and then withdrew.
站点里不能聚集。
You can't congregate in the site.
图|骑手们冒着雨雪出门王紫薇觉得自己在这一个月长大许多。
The riders went out in the rain and snow. Ms. Wang thinks she grew a lot this month.
她做这份工作原本只是想锻炼自己，最近，她真的体会到一种责任感。
She used to do this job just to exercise herself, and recently she really felt a sense of responsibility.
这种感觉模模糊糊，说不太明白，在这个时候送餐当然是服务于别人，“肯定不是为了自己”。
This feeling is vague, said not quite understand, at this time of course, the delivery of food to other people, "definitely not for themselves."
武汉市的店面几乎都关了，只剩一些水果店和药店还在经营。
Almost all the stores in Wuhan are closed, leaving only a few fruit shops and pharmacies in operation.
过年那几天，她送了一单水果。
She gave a single piece of fruit for the New Year.
小区完全封锁了，她骑车绕了一圈，到处都是高高的挡板。
The neighborhood was completely sealed off, and she cycled around with tall fenders.
王紫薇只好给顾客打电话说明情况，请对方退单。
Wang Ziwei had to call customers to explain the situation, please return the bill.
过了几分钟，那位阿姨又来了个电话：“算了，餐我也不退了，你们也很辛苦，水果你拿回去吃吧。
After a few minutes, the aunt came to a telephone: "Well, I do not return the meal, you are also very hard, fruit you take back to eat.
”“谢谢阿姨“，王紫薇说，手头还有好些单等着送，她没有时间表达过多的感谢，只对她说了声”祝您新年快乐“。
"" Thank you, Aunt Wang, "said Wang." There's a lot of waiting, and she doesn't have time to say thank you, just to say "Happy New Year.
晚上睡觉前，王紫薇躺在床上看微博信息。
Before going to bed at night, WangZiWei lay in bed to read Weibo information.
方舱医院的病人记录生活；一个姐姐追着拉走母亲遗体的殡仪馆车；一个医院的院长去世了……她常常看得掉眼泪。
The patients in the cabin hospital recorded their lives; a sister chased the funeral parlour car that had taken away her mother's body; the director of a hospital died... she often saw tears.
她在武汉长大，生活了二十多年，从来没见过这座城市变成这个样子。
She grew up in Wuhan, living for more than twenty years, and has never seen this city become like this.
王紫薇甚至怀念起以前送餐路上的堵车。
Wang even missed the traffic jam on the way to the previous meal.
这几天，一些铺子开了，路上开始能看到零星的车和人。
Over the past few days, some shops have opened and scattered cars and people are beginning to appear on the road.
应该是控制住了吧，王紫薇想。
It must be under control, thought Wang Ziwei.
气温正在转暖，春天快到了。
The temperature is warming up and spring is almost here.
武汉最近天气不错。
Wuhan has had good weather recently.
*本文图片来自《现代快报》《北京日报》，已获授权  女性总给人娇弱的印象。
* Pictured here in Hyundai Express, Beijing Daily. Authorized women give the impression of being frail.
突如其来的疫情下，刘俊平、王紫薇和她们的同事经受住了这次大考，蹬着车，在武汉疫区风雨兼程。
Under the sudden epidemic situation, Liu Junping, Wang Ziwei and their colleagues withstood the big test, pedal the car, in Wuhan epidemic area both wind and rain.
无需过多的颂扬与优待，她们只是踏踏实实地送外卖，在日复一日的工作中呼吸到自由。
There is no need for too much praise and patronage. They simply take out food and breathe freedom in their day-to-day work.
三八妇女节，向这些仍坚守在岗位上的女人们致敬！-END-撰文|刘雀。
Women's Day on March 8, honouring the women who still hold onto their posts! - END-Writing & # 124; Liu.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
在武汉送外卖的女人。
A woman who delivers food in Wuhan.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "文学";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "真实故事计划";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "在武汉送外卖的女人";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; in Wuhan.
var msg_desc = "她们从不停摆。
var msg _ desc = & quot; they never stop.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="真实故事计划";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
