疫情来时，我带妻女住进深山。
When the outbreak came, I took my wife and daughter into the mountains.
李文静。
Li Wenjing.
真实故事计划                      。
The real story plan.
真实故事计划。
The real story plan.
每天一个打动人心的原创真实故事。
An original and true story that touches the heart every day.
。
.
从城市返回农村过年，阿林的妻女先后出现感冒症状。
From the city back to the countryside New Year, Alin's wife and daughter have had cold symptoms.
左右为难中，阿林带着妻女躲进深山，在远离城市地带的蛮荒地，搭建起临时庇护所，度过了隔离的14天。
In a dilemma, Alin and his wife and daughter hid in the mountains, far away from the city in the wilderness, set up temporary shelter, spent 14 days in isolation.
故事时间：2020年故事地点：柳州市融安镇正月初四早上八点，阿林从湿凉的地上爬起来，拣了一把柴禾丢进砖砌的土灶里。
At 8 a.m. on Thursday morning in Yongan Town, Liuzhou, Alin got up from the wet cold ground and picked up a handful of firewood and threw it into a brick oven.
锅里的水逐渐冒出气泡，身上一点点暖和起来，他走进木屋，搓暖双手，把手背贴在妻女的额头上。
The water bubbled and warmed a little. He went into the hut, warmed his hands and put them on his wife's forehead.
还好，没有发烧。
Luckily, there was no fever.
他长舒一口气，见两人还睡着，便又回到灶旁，灌一瓶开水留着洗脸，顺手抓一把面放进锅里，习惯性地点开手机查看今天的确诊病例又增加了多少。
He heaved a sigh of relief, and seeing that they were still asleep, he returned to the stove, poured a bottle of boiling water to wash his face, grabbed a handful of noodles into the pot, and habitually opened his mobile phone to see how many more confirmed cases there were today.
这是他带着妻女搬进山里的第一个早上。
It was the first morning he moved into the mountains with his wife and daughter.
原本阿林和她们是不在一起过年的。
Originally Alin and they are not together for the New Year.
原计划中，妻子和女儿将留在柳州市，过年前几天买买年货、看看市里的新春活动，初三去江西老家参加堂哥的婚礼。
The original plan, the wife and daughter will stay in Liuzhou City, a few days before the New Year to buy goods, see the city's New Year activities, the third day of Jiangxi to attend his cousin's wedding.
阿林则在腊月二十八带着小儿子东仔回融安老家。
Alin in the month of 28 with the youngest son Dongpai back home in Rongan.
就在他回老家的第二天，武汉封城了。
The day after he returned to his hometown, Wuhan closed the city.
肺炎人传人的消息扩散开，他赶紧打电话让妻子退掉回江西的车票，却听见电话那头传来咳嗽声。
Pneumonia person-to-person news spread, he quickly called his wife to return to Jiangxi tickets, but heard the phone call from the cough.
一家人的平静生活瞬间被打破。
The quiet life of the family was shattered in an instant.
妻子阿艳和女儿欣欣年前就有些感冒，本以为只是天气冷着凉了，吃点药就好，可一想到新型肺炎的病症就是咳嗽发烧，阿林突然有些紧张。
His wife and daughter Xin Xin had a cold some years ago, thought it was just cold and cold, take some medicine, but the thought of the new pneumonia symptoms is cough fever, Alin suddenly a little nervous.
不知道母女俩是普通感冒，还是得了新型肺炎。
I wonder if my mother and daughter have a common cold or have new pneumonia.
市里已经有了确诊病例，家里没有口罩、酒精等物品，她们独自留在市里没人照顾，还免不了外出买菜，被感染的风险很大。
There have been confirmed cases in the city, the family does not have masks, alcohol and other items, they left alone in the city without care, there is no escape to buy vegetables, the risk of infection is very high.
接回老家也不行，家里还有60多岁的父母和3岁的小儿子，万一真是肺炎，家里人都可能被传染。
I can't go back to my hometown. I have my parents in my sixties and my youngest son, 3 years old. In case of pneumonia, my family could be infected.
初一那天，村干部挨家挨户通知着不要外出、不要聚会，村里没有一丝过年气氛。
On the first day of junior high school, village cadres went door-to-door to tell not to go out, do not party, the village has no atmosphere.
阿林翻来覆去地想了一整天，最终决定带着妻女到山上的果园住一段时间，这样既能照顾她们，也不用担心传染家人。
After much thought all day, Alin finally decided to take his wife and daughter to live in the orchard on the hill for a while, so that he could take care of them without fear of infecting their families.
第二天晚上，阿艳逃难般连夜收拾好生活用品。
The next night, Ah Yan fled and gathered her things for the night.
阿林也没睡安稳，他一早就冲去市里，把出租屋里所有能用的东西都搬到车上，路上经过超市又去买了些青菜、面、腊鸡腊肉，也没敢回家道别，带着妻女直奔山上。
Alin didn't sleep well either. He rushed to the city early in the morning, took all the useful things out of the rented house to the car, and on his way past the supermarket he bought some vegetables, pasta, bacon, and dared not go home to say good-bye.
沿着乡镇公路一直开，趟过一条河，上坡后就是阿林家的果园。
Go straight along the town road, across a river, uphill is the Allins orchard.
下过雨的山路泥泞难行，车子卡在上坡处，阿林和妻子只好下车一趟趟搬东西，几百米的路程搬了十几趟，两人累得直喘。
After the rain on the muddy mountain road, the car stuck in the uphill, Alin and his wife had to get out of the car to carry things, hundreds of meters moved a dozen times, the two men exhausted.
而这只是山居生活的开始。
And this is only the beginning of life in the mountains.
作者图 | 山路果园里的小木屋成了阿林和妻女的临时隔离点。
The cabin in the mountain road orchard served as a temporary quarantine for Alin and his wife and daughter.
这间供人歇息、避雨的木屋盖得潦草，屋脊和两侧墙壁间的三角区域没有遮挡物，屋里也什么都没有，阿林看着空荡荡的木屋，有种百废待兴的惆怅。
There was no shelter on the triangle between the roof and the two walls, and nothing in the house. Alin looked at the empty wooden house with a kind of melancholy.
把生活用品搬到屋里，他稍微休息了一会，便手脚麻利地布置起来，得赶在天黑前弄好吃饭和睡觉的地方。
Taking the things into the house, he rested for a little while, and then arranged himself with his hands and feet, and had to make sure that he had a place to eat and sleep before dark.
他把几床厚被子铺在地上给母女俩当床睡，又拖了几根粗壮的树干架在屋外两侧的墙板，铺上红蓝相间的旧塑料布，一边做自己的“卧室”，一边做厨房。
He laid several thick quilts on the floor for his mother and daughter, and dragged thick tree trunks over the two sides of the house, covered with old red-and-blue plastic sheeting, and made his own bedroom and kitchen.
接着在地上挖了个坑，砌两三块砖挡风，搭好了简易灶台。
Then he dug a hole in the ground, made two or three bricks to keep out the wind, and set up a simple stove.
作者图 | 阿林搭建的厨房被爸爸从暖和的家里带到凉飕飕的山上，7岁的女儿欣欣有点懵，她拉着阿林的袖口问：“爸爸我们为什么来山上，是要住在这里吗？”“外面有一种病毒，传染到就会生病，我们住在山里，不接触外面的人，就不会得病了。
The kitchen Alin built was taken by her father from a warm home to a chilly mountain, where 7-year-old Xin Xin, stunned, asked: "Daddy, why did we come up the hill to live here?"
”阿林一边安慰女儿，一边把电瓶车上的电瓶拖到屋里，用逆变器连接电瓶和白炽灯，再用细树干把灯挑到高处。
"Alin comforted her daughter by hauling electric bottles into the house, using an inverter to connect the batteries to incandescent bulbs and pick the lights up high on small tree trunks.
5个电瓶和1个锂电池，差不多能撑过隔离期。
Five batteries and one lithium battery, which will last for almost the duration of isolation.
“为什么爷爷奶奶和弟弟不和我们一起过来呢？”欣欣追问道。
"Why don't your grandparents and your brother come with us?" asked XinXin.
突然的变化让她有些不安。
The sudden change made her a little uneasy.
阿林擦干净手，捏捏女儿的手掌，又贴着她的额头试了下温度，“他们在家里很安全的，我们过几天就下山，不怕哈”，欣欣听了乖乖地点点头。
Lin wiped his hands, pinched her daughter's palm and tried the temperature on her forehead. "They're safe at home. We'll go down in a few days, not afraid of ha." XinXin nodded obediently.
天快黑了，山里的气温也降了下来，风嗖嗖地吹过来，阿林开始点火烧水。
It was getting dark, the temperature in the mountains dropped, and the wind whistled up and Alin began to light and boil water.
水是直接从小溪里引来的，灶不严实、火势不集中，过了半小时才烧开。
The water was drawn directly from the stream, the stove was not solid, the fire was not concentrated, it took half an hour to boil.
他算着分量下了一把面，等面煮软了又放了一把青菜、两个鸡蛋。
He counted down a handful of noodles, boiled them soft, and put a handful of vegetables and two eggs.
往常几分钟就能煮好的面，阿林足足折腾了一个多小时。
As usual in a few minutes can cook the noodles, Alin toss about for more than an hour.
三人各自盛了一碗面，在木屋里围坐着吃饭，偶尔说说话，屋外灶上的火还烧着，衬得山林更加漆黑。
Each served a bowl of noodles, and sat around the log-house eating, occasionally talking, and the fire was still burning outside, making the forest even darker.
为了尽量避免接触，阿林让妻女睡在屋里，他睡屋外。
To avoid contact, Alin lets his wife and daughter sleep in the house. He sleeps outside.
山里气温低，晚上只有三四度，地上湿凉，阴风阵阵，虽然盖了两床被子，他还是觉得冷，心里偶尔闪过山间的野兽和鬼神传说。
It was cold in the mountains, only three or four degrees at night, the ground was damp and windy, and although he had covered two quilts, he felt cold, and his heart flashed occasionally over the wild beasts and ghosts and legends of the mountains.
作者图 |阿林的床铺半梦半醒地睡到了早上，阿林爬起来坐在土灶旁取暖。
Author AT & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
四下是雾气茫茫的山脉，近来总是下雨，随时都有山洪和泥石流的可能。
There were foggy mountains, and recently it had been raining, and there was always the possibility of flash floods and mudslides.
在城里待久了，突然暴露在自然中，他才感觉到远离现代生活的种种不便。
It was only after his long stay in the city, suddenly exposed to nature, that he sensed the inconveniences of being far from modern life.
市里租的房子只有16平米，又老又旧，一家四口住得拥挤，门窗管道也有些问题，但是再冷的天进屋也暖和了，打开水龙头就有热水，想吃什么菜超市都可以买。
The rented house in the city was only 16 square metres old and old. The family of four lived together in crowded rooms and had some problems with the windows and doors, but it was warm in the cold weather.
住在那里时，只觉得生活中的一切都是理所当然，没什么难得之处，突然被“逼”进山里，才发现在家里随时都可以烧饭、出门买菜的幸福。
When I lived there, I just took everything for granted. There was nothing unusual about it. Suddenly, I was forced into the mountains and found that I could cook and buy food at any time at home.
现在想做饭要先去山上砍柴，想取暖必须坐在火堆旁，连洗澡也成了问题......不管有多少感慨，隔离还是避无可避地开始了。
Now when you want to cook, you have to go to the mountains to cut wood, you have to sit by a fire to get warm, and bathing becomes a problem... No matter how much you sigh, isolation or avoidance begins.
“希望阿艳和欣欣早点好起来，只要他们健健康康，别的都是小事。
"I hope Ah Yan and Xin Xin get well early. As long as they are healthy and healthy, everything else is trivial.
”阿林一边烤火，一边在心里念叨着。
"Alin said to himself as he baked the fire.
新冠肺炎就像一把悬在头顶的剑，感冒一天不好，这把剑随时有可能劈下来。
New Crown Pneumonia is like a sword hanging over your head. A cold is bad all day. This sword can be chopped off at any time.
妻子对疫情关注不多，对自己的感冒也淡淡的，女儿更是天真不知事，叮嘱母女俩测体温、多喝水、多穿衣，成了阿林每天最紧要的事。
His wife did not pay much attention to the epidemic situation, his cold is also light, daughter is naive do not know things, tell mother and daughter to take temperature, drink more water, more clothes, has become the most important thing every day.
在阿林的悉心照料下，两三天后母女俩的感冒好得差不多了，但过段时间又有些咳，这让他心理压力倍增。
Two or three days later, under Alin's good care, she and her daughter had a much better cold, but after a while they had a cough, which added to his psychological stress.
为了让母女俩睡得舒服点，他摸索着用竹子做了个简易床。
To make the mother and daughter sleep comfortably, he groped for a simple bed made of bamboo.
在斜搭的树干上系四截绳子，吊两根细木头，再用斧头把竹子对半剖开，竹片一一排在细木头上绑好。
Tie four pieces of rope around the sloping trunk, hang two pieces of wood, cut the bamboo in half with axes, and tie the pieces of bamboo in rows on top of the fine wood.
有了竹床母女俩就不用再睡在地上。
Mother and daughter don't have to sleep on the floor anymore.
欣欣很调皮，经常跟在阿林身后玩耍，有时还会一个人往山上跑，穿着雨鞋去河里踩水，身上沾满泥巴、脚冻得冰凉，呵斥的话也是左耳进右耳出，几天下来，活活变成个小泥人。
Xin Xin was very naughty and often played behind Alin, and sometimes he would run up the mountain alone, trample on the river in his rain shoes, be covered with mud and cold feet, and exhale his left ear in and out of his right ear for a few days and become a clay figurine.
山上生活不比城里便捷，为了给欣欣洗个热水澡，阿林找来装苞谷防潮的圆筒形薄膜，剪下三米长的一段，把薄膜的一头扎紧，塞进一截水管圈，挂在树枝上，做了个简陋的“浴室”。
Life on the mountain was no easier than in the city. To give XinXin a hot bath, Alin took a damp-proof cylindrical film from the bracts, clipped a three-metre-long section, tied the end of the film tightly, stuck it into a hose, hung it on a branch, and made a crude bathroom.
作者图 | 野外浴室怕女儿冻着，他还翻出苹果箱的纸板和防压珍珠棉，自制了两双垫子，垫在她的雨鞋里。
Fearing his daughter's freeze, the author produced a box of cardboard and pressure-proof pearl cotton, and two homemade cushions in her rain shoes.
怕她在山里玩得心都飞了，还要监督她写寒假作业，父女俩一天相处的时间比往常一周都多。
Fearing that she would fly away in the mountains and watch her do her homework during the winter vacation, father and daughter spent more time together in a day than usual.
做父亲的一边陪着女儿，一边记挂着家里的小儿子东仔。
The father accompanied his daughter, while remembering the family's youngest son, Dongzi.
东仔格外依赖阿林，一向都是和他睡。
Dongzi is very dependent on Alin and always sleeps with him.
初三去接母女俩时，阿林起了个大早，就是为了赶在东仔醒之前出发，如果儿子看到他开车走，肯定哭闹着要跟去。
On the third day of junior high to pick up the mother and daughter, Alin got up early, just in time to wake up, and if his son saw him driving away, he would surely cry and go with him.
和家里人联系时，阿林从来不开视频，不敢让东仔看见他们，万一他认出这栋小木屋，说不定会自己跑来。
When in touch with his family, Alin never opens a video, afraid to let Dongzi see them, in case he recognized the cabin, he might run to his own.
但即使在屏幕里看不到爸爸，每次通话东仔也执着地在旁边听着，一遍遍问他什么时候回来。
But even in the screen can not see Dad, each time the phone DongZai clung to listen, asking him all over when he came back.
住在山上这段时间，只能由阿林父亲来送物资。
During this time in the mountains, Alin's father had to deliver the supplies.
老爷子快70岁了，每次背着几十斤的水果、蔬菜步行上山，走一段歇一下，淌过小河、上坡，到果园入口就不再往前。
Old man is nearly 70 years old, carrying dozens of jin of fruit and vegetables every time up the mountain on foot, walk a short break, across the river, uphill, to the orchard entrance no further.
那次他把袋子放在地上，对着木屋喊了几声，欣欣听见爷爷的声音，连忙往外跑，连声叫着“爷爷”，摔倒了也不管不顾。
On that occasion, he laid the bag on the ground and shouted a few words to the hut. Xin Xin heard Grandpa's voice and ran out.
爷爷却没有像以往那样迎上来抱她，只是站在原地对她摆了摆手，示意她回去。
Grandpa didn't come up to meet her like usual. He just stood there and waved her back.
欣欣回到阿林身边问他：“爷爷为什么躲着我？”阿林说：“我们不是从市里回来吗，身上可能带病毒，怕传染到爷爷，所以我们先不见爷爷好不好？”他指着袋子转移女儿的注意力，“看看这里有什么好吃的”。
Xin Xin went back to Alin and asked him, "Why did Grandpa hide from me?" Alin said, "Aren't we coming back from the city with the virus, so we can't see Grandpa first?" He pointed to the bag and turned her attention away.
欣欣扒拉着袋子，“有金桔、有白菜、有芋头、有面”，边说边喘着粗气。
XinXin pulled the bag, "orange, Chinese cabbage, taro, noodles", said as he gasped for breath.
阿林父亲来过三次，接到食物是三人最开心的时刻。
Arlene's father called three times, and getting food was the three of them 'happiest moment.
山里的伙食实在太差，吃的是豆腐皮、海带等干菜，餐餐都是青菜鸡蛋面，不知道要在山上待多久，买的腊肉也没舍得吃。
The mountain food is really bad, eat bean curd, kelp and other dried vegetables, the meal is green egg noodles, do not know how long to stay in the mountains, buy bacon is not willing to eat.
作者图 | 运送食物的夫妻阿林尽量避免自己和其他人接触，也做好了在山上待够半个月的打算，但初六那天还是下了趟山。
Author & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
母亲打来电话说村里人都在摘金桔，经销商有多少都收，但要尽快送去，所以让阿林赶紧回家一起摘，再晚点怕卖不出去。
Mother called to say that everyone in the village was picking oranges. The dealer would take them as much as he could, but they had to deliver them as soon as possible.
阿林回家后摘了一整天果子，晚上十点接到经销商的电话，让他们明天不要摘了，快递马上就要完全封停，现在有多少就送多少过去。
Arlene went home and picked the fruit all day. At 10 p. m., he got a call from the dealer telling them not to pick it tomorrow.
接完电话，阿林和父母、哥哥嫂嫂急忙穿好衣服又去了果园，连夜把金桔都摘完。
After the telephone, Alin, his parents, sister-in-law and sister-in-law hastily dressed and went to the orchard, night after night all the orange picked.
凌晨五点装上车，他一个人开车去镇上，没有像以前一样让家人跟着一起。
When he got on the bus at five in the morning, he drove to town alone, without his family following him as before.
戴着口罩、游泳镜，穿着雨衣雨裤，阿林全副武装到了镇上，街上人不多，年轻人都戴着口罩，中老年人几乎都不戴。
Wearing masks, swimming goggles, raincoats and raincoats, Alin was heavily armed in the town, the streets were sparsely populated, the young wore masks, and the old and middle-aged hardly wore them.
收金桔的人在仓库门口聊天，也没戴口罩，看见阿林的一身装扮，半疑惑半不屑地问道，“有这么怕吗？”阿林憨厚地笑笑，也不生气，耐心解释道：“是真的蛮怕的，这个病有潜伏期，谁都不能确定是安全的。
The oranges were chatting in front of the warehouse, without wearing a mask, and seeing Alin in disguise, asked half questioningly and half disdainfully, "Are you so frightened?" Alin grinned rather than angrily, patiently explaining, "It's really scary.
”多小心一点总是没错的，阿林相信这个理。
"It's always right to be more careful," Alin believed.
2000多斤金桔老板都收了，每斤均价4元，只有往年价格的一半。
More than 2,000 kilos of oranges boss, the average price per catty 4 yuan, only half of the usual price.
阿林跟老板道谢后走了，他对这个结果并不意外，但心里还是难过。
Alin thanked his boss and left. He wasn't surprised by the result, but he was still upset.
融安滑皮金桔是当地特产，是镇上主要的经济来源，村里人一年辛苦劳作，都希望过年赚点钱，谁也没想到会突逢变故。
Citrus fruit is a local specialty, is the town's main source of economic resources, the villagers worked hard all year long, all hope to make some money, no one expected a sudden change.
收入减半还是幸运的，村里还有五六户人家没来得及摘果子，等不到疫情过去，金桔就会烂在地里。
Luckily, half of the income went to half a dozen families in the village. Before the outbreak was over, the oranges would rot in the fields.
作者图 |屋前的金桔地生活再次将残酷一面撕裂在阿林面前。
The orange life in front of the house once again tore the cruel side in front of Alin.
和许多小镇青年的命运一样，初中毕业后，阿林母亲生病，家里经济条件紧张，他没再继续学业，外出打工。
Like many young people in small towns, after graduating from junior high school, Alin's mother was ill and his family's financial situation was so tight that he stopped studying and went to work.
这些年，他尝试过很多谋生办法：在工厂上班、和妻子一起开早点铺、走街串巷卖小玩具……但都只能勉强维持生活。
Over the years, he has tried many ways to make a living: working in a factory, running an early morning shop with his wife, selling toys around the block.
随着市区管理变严，摆摊生意越来越不好做。
With urban management getting tighter, stalls are becoming harder to do.
小儿子出生、女儿上学，父母年迈，阿林32岁了，肩上的担子越来越重。
The youngest son was born, his daughter was at school, his parents were old, Alin was 32, and the burden on his shoulders was getting heavier and heavier.
为了照顾孩子，他和妻子低价转手了生意摊子，在市里找了份家政服务工作。
In order to take care of the children, he and his wife changed hands at a low price, and found a domestic service job in the city.
家政工作时间不固定，有时一两天都接不到单，有时一天要工作八九个小时。
The hours of domestic work vary, sometimes from day to day, to eight or nine hours a day.
平时月收入只有三千左右，扣掉房租、儿女学费、再加上各项生活用度、人情往来，两人一年也攒不下什么钱。
In the ordinary course of three thousand dollars a month, after deducting the rent, the children's school fees, and all the living expenses and connections, the two men could not save much money a year.
卖金桔的收入减半会让家里更加拮据，但阿林不愿过多提及，默默咽下了所有难处，只是念叨着“钱没了还可以再赚，一家人平平安安就行了”。
Halving the sale of oranges would make the family poorer, but Alin would not go much further and silently swallowed down all the difficulties, saying, "No more money and more money, the whole family will be safe."
家人是阿林最大的念想，在外闯荡十几年，他对漂泊不定的生活早已厌倦。
Family is Alin's biggest thought, after more than a decade outside, he was tired of the vagaries of life.
老家山清水秀、空气清新，推开门就是大片果园和青山。
Home beautiful mountain water, fresh air, open the door is a large orchard and green mountains.
他想回老家，但靠种地又难以维持生计，以后老人孩子的医疗、教育开支会越来越多，如果回去，他担心家里的经济问题，也不甘心自己毫无长进。
He wanted to go back to his hometown, but could not support himself by farming. Later, the old man and his children would spend more and more money on medical care and education.
阿林一直在想办法，看到视频网站上的农村博主拍拍农村生活，卖卖土特产就能赚钱，他也想试试。
Alin has been trying to see video sites on the rural blogger patted rural life, selling local products can make money, he would like to try.
去年六月，他注册了一个“阿林哥日记”的账号，每天像写日记般拍摄视频，修车、酿酒、带着狗去探山、做家常菜、自制捕鱼神器，他把在家里好玩的事都记录下来，自学剪辑配乐配字，尝试在互联网上寻找生计。
Last June, he signed up for an "Aringo Diary" account. He kept a diary every day, fixing cars, brewing wine, taking dogs to the mountains, cooking homemade dishes, making homemade fishing artifacts, learning how to edit music sets and trying to make a living on the Internet.
在山上隔离期间，带女儿造竹床、自制“浴室”，他都拿着手机拍，腾不出手就用树枝和砖头把手机架在地上。
During the isolation period, he made bamboo beds and homemade "bathrooms" with his daughter. He used sticks and bricks to hold his cell phone on the ground.
视频拍得粗糙，没多少人看，他也不泄气，觉得不管怎样也算学会了一门手艺。
The video was so rough that not many people saw it. He didn't lose heart and felt he had learned a trade anyway.
隔离期过半后，母女俩的感冒基本好了，手工活也做得差不多，他便开始拿着手机慢吞吞地剪视频。
Halfway through the quarantine period, the mother and daughter had basically gotten over their cold and were doing much more manual work, so he began to slowly cut the video with his mobile phone.
山上没什么娱乐消遣，夫妻俩只能对坐着玩手机，一个三五分钟的短片剪上几个小时，算是消磨时间。
There was no entertainment on the mountain, and the couple had to kill time by sitting on their cell phones and cutting for hours a three to five minute clip.
欣欣偶尔会不停问他：“爸爸我们是不是没事了？我和妈妈不感冒了，能下山了吗？我好想爷爷奶奶。
Xin Xin will not stop asking him: "Dad are we all right? My mother and I do not catch a cold, can you go down the mountain? I miss grandparents so much.
”阿林就摸摸她的头说道：“再过几天好不好？呆满两周我们就下山。
"Ah Lin felt her head and said," How about a few more days? After two weeks we'll be down the hill.
”他其实也很想下山，他已经很久没看到小儿子了。
He really wanted to go down, too, and he hadn't seen his youngest son for a long time.
听母亲说最开始两天东仔睡前经常闹，问爸爸去哪了，说着说着就会哭。
Listen to the mother said that the first two days before sleep Dongzi often noisy, ask Dad where he went, said will cry.
阿林电话里哄他说做工去了，过几天就回来，他就缠着奶奶问还有几天，每天都问。
Alin coaxed him to go to work, a few days back, he pestered Grandma asked a few days, every day asked.
回家摘金桔那次，阿林没敢进家门。
When he went home to pick oranges, Alin didn't dare come in.
吃饭时母亲把碗放在田坝上，她走了阿林再去拿，怕传染，也怕儿子看见了要跟着他。
During the meal mother put the bowl on the field dam, she walked Alin to get it, for fear of infection, also afraid his son would see to follow him.
元宵节那天，三个人总算吃了顿“大餐”。
On the Lantern Festival, the three of them finally had a big meal.
阿林拿下那块舍不得吃的腊肉，和黄豆一起炖煮，又拿着锄头去山上挖五指毛桃、摘了香叶，放进锅里。
Alin took down the loathsome bacon, stewed it with the bean, and carried a hoe to the mountain to dig for five peaches, pick the fragrant leaves and put them into the pot.
炖肉本来是晚饭，但三个人馋得不行，中午就吃了一大半。
The stew was supposed to be supper, but the three of them were so greedy that they ate more than half of it at noon.
他把碗里的瘦肉夹给女儿，女儿又夹了回来，推让三四次，直到他说自己已经吃过了，女儿才老老实实吃了。
He gave his daughter the lean meat in the bowl, and she brought it back three or four times until he said he had eaten it and the girl ate it honestly.
三天后，隔离期终于结束，妻子和女儿没有任何症状，不再担心传染家人，三个人飞快地收拾东西往车上搬，迫不及待地想离开山林。
Three days later, when the isolation period was finally over and the wife and daughter had no symptoms and were no longer afraid of infecting their families, the three quickly gathered their belongings and rushed to the car, eager to leave the forest.
作者图 | 果园里的木屋到家后，阿林母亲杀了只鸡，把家里的各种食材都用上，做了满满一桌菜，一家人有说有笑，在正月十八吃上了一顿真正的团圆饭。
When the cabin in the orchard got home, Alin's mother killed a chicken, used all the household ingredients, cooked a full table, and had a real family dinner on the 18th of January.
晚上欣欣跑去和好久不见的奶奶睡觉，阿林则陪着小儿子，这20多天，他一直高度紧张，睡在家里的板床上，抱着儿子，他才终于睡了个好觉。
In the evening Xin Xin went to sleep with her long-gone grandmother. Alin stayed with her little son. For more than 20 days, he was so nervous that he slept on a wooden bed at home, hugging his son.
- END -撰文| 李文静编辑| 马延君。
- END-article and # 124; Li Wenjing Editing & # 144; & # 45; Ma.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情来时，我带妻女住进深山。
When the outbreak came, I took my wife and daughter into the mountains.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "情感";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "真实故事计划";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "疫情来时，我带妻女住进深山";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; When the outbreak came, I took my wife and daughter to Rishan & quot;;;
var msg_desc = "文明和城市生活中断了。
var msg _ desc = & quot; civilized and urban life has been disrupted.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="真实故事计划";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
