武汉新生儿和一场72小时救援。
Wuhan newborn baby and a 72-hour rescue.
小昼。
Daylight.
极昼工作室                      。
Daylight Studio.
极昼工作室。
Daylight Studio.
为坚持严肃阅读的人群提供选项。
Offer options for people who insist on serious reading.
搜狐新闻极昼工作室。
Sohu News Polar Daylight Studio.
。
.
摘要：晏辰刚在武汉“封城”的前一天出生，很快被发现患有严重的皮罗综合征，亟需手术治疗。
Abstract: Anchor was born the day before the city was closed in Wuhan, and was soon found to have severe Piro's syndrome, requiring urgent surgical treatment.
国内能为他做手术的专家远在南京，民间志愿者、两地医院、湖北安徽江苏三省政府部门以及媒体通力合作，将晏辰刚在72小时内从武汉转诊至南京。
The experts in China who could operate on him were based in Nanjing, and the non-governmental volunteers, the hospitals of both places, the government departments of Jiangsu Province in Hubei Province and the media all worked together to transfer Anchor from Wuhan to Nanjing within 72 hours.
文丨高佳实习生赵佳佳编辑丨林鹏晏辰刚在武汉“封城”前一天出生，患了罕见的先天性疾病——皮罗综合征。
Zhao Jia Jia Jia, an intern, is born just one day before the city's closure in Wuhan and suffers from a rare congenital disorder, known as Piro syndrome.
他气管极细，只能借助呼吸机维持生命。
His trachea was extremely thin and he had to rely on a respirator to survive.
在武汉城里，父亲晏义威找不到可以为他做手术的医生。
In Wuhan city, the father Anyi Wei can not find the doctor who can operate on him.
南京医科大学附属儿童医院的医生沈卫民愿意为他提供治疗，前提是晏义威要想办法把孩子送到南京。
Shen Weimin, a doctor at the Children's Hospital attached to Nanjing Medical University, offered to treat him if Anor tried to send the child to Nanjing.
2020年的初春，从武汉到南京的1000多里路遥远且壁垒重重。
In the early spring of 2020, more than 1,000 miles from Wuhan to Nanjing are remote and heavily barricaded.
2月18日，晏义威发布朋友圈求助，志愿者陈星旭2月21日早上开始联系晏义威，接过了这场生死救援的第一棒。
On February 18, Anor released a circle of friends for help, volunteers Chen Xingxu began to contact Anyi Wei on the morning of February 21, taking over the life and death of the first baton.
到2月24日上午晏辰刚离开武汉，救援时间将近72小时。
By the morning of February 24, Yan Chen just left Wuhan, rescue time nearly 72 hours.
志愿者之后，华中科技大学校友会成员，湖北、安徽和江苏的政府部门、媒体也参与进救援中。
Volunteers, Huazhong University of Science and Technology alumni association members, Hubei, Anhui and Jiangsu government departments, the media also participated in the rescue.
72小时后，出生一个月的晏辰刚坐上了去往南京的车。
Seventy-two hours later, Anchor, who was one month old, just got on the bus to Nanjing.
这是武汉“封城”中为数不多成功转诊至省外的非新冠肺炎病人。
It was one of the few cases of non-Newly Crowded Pneumonia successfully referred to provinces in Wuhan.
对志愿者来说，这是一次心理补偿的机会，抚平过去一个月里，他们触碰到的更多无解以及由此积压的情绪。
For the volunteers, it was an opportunity to compensate for the more confusion they had encountered and the backlogs they had experienced over the past month.
3月4日，南京医科大学附属儿童医院准备为晏辰刚做手术，这位拥有崭新生命的小朋友，现在终于可以攒足力气，面对疾病了。
March 4, Nanjing Medical University affiliated children's hospital to prepare for Yan Chen just surgery, this new life of the children, now can finally save enough strength, face the disease.
出生在“封城”前一天晏辰刚小朋友出生的时候，没出现热闹的景象。
Born on the day before the "closure" Anchor Gang children were born, did not appear lively scene.
原本当他在湖北省中医院的病房里睁开眼睛时，出现好几张对他微笑的脸，他的爸爸晏义威37岁迎来第一个孩子，奶奶、外婆和姑姑，还有其他的亲戚们早都准备好要来看他。
When he opened his eyes in the ward of Hubei Chinese Hospital, several smiling faces appeared. His father, Anor Yevi, welcomed his first child at the age of 37, and his grandmother, grandmother and aunt, as well as other relatives, were ready to visit him.
1月22日，国家卫健委公布数据，新冠肺炎病例在湖北省确诊444例。
On January 22, the State Health Commission announced that 444 cases of new crown pneumonia had been diagnosed in Hubei province.
那天早晨，省中医院的发热门诊有近10个患者等候就诊，医生们换上了防护装备，面罩上结着细水珠。
That morning, nearly 10 patients were waiting to see the fever clinic at the provincial TCM hospital. The doctors were given protective equipment and their masks were covered with tiny drops of water.
晏辰刚的妈妈下午住进医院，爸爸花120元买到4只N90口罩，只跟外婆两人守在产房外。
Yan Chen Gang's mother stayed in hospital in the afternoon, father spent 120 yuan to buy four N90 masks, and only with the grandmother outside the delivery room.
晚上9点40分，哭声传来，医院里的喧嚣和紧张比平常更多，但晏义威心里还是欢喜，看着儿子睁开眼睛四处张望。
At 9: 40 p.m., the crying sound, the hospital noise and tension than usual more, but Yan Yi Wei heart or joy, watching his son opened his eyes around.
哭声之后过了12个小时，武汉迎来了“封城”的消息。
After crying for 12 hours, Wuhan ushered in the "closure" of the news.
对世上一切感到陌生的晏辰刚小朋友，大概感受不到在城市里肆虐的病毒的可怕。
To the world all feel strange Anchor Gang children, probably do not feel the city raging in the terrible virus.
如果能健康出院，他会像很多在疫情期间出生的孩子一样，几乎不受影响地，度过生命中最早期无忧虑的时光。
If discharged healthily, he would spend the earliest moments of his life without worry, much like many children born during the outbreak.
往后，他会从大人口中对自己的生辰、本世纪20年代的开端有模糊的了解，也或许会明白人们为什么把他在的城市叫做英雄城市。
In the future, he will have a vague idea of his birthday, the beginning of the 1920s, and perhaps why people call his city a hero.
这按说会发生在很久之后，不过现在，命运好像急迫地想让他提前获知这一点。
It's supposed to happen a long time from now, but now, fate seems eager to let him know it in advance.
在他出生的那晚，晏义威发觉，“他呼吸的时候，是从口里吐气出来。
On the night of his birth, Anor discovered, "He breathes out of his mouth.
”第二天早上又看到，“他脸色苍白，嘴唇发紫。
"The next morning he saw again," His face was pale and his lips were purple.
”晏辰刚得了一种罕见的先天性疾病，武汉“封城”的第一天，他被转院到湖北省妇幼保健院，医生确诊他是腭裂患儿（注：腭裂是先天性疾病皮罗综合征的常见症状），但医院没有相关专家，无法进行手术，他只能一直在新生儿科ICU接受观察。
On the first day of his "closure," Wuhan was transferred to the Hubei Provincial Maternal and Child Health Center, where he was confirmed to be a child with cleft palate (note: Cleft Palate is a common symptom of congenital derro syndrome).
晏义威就跑去路对面的武汉大学口腔医院，在那里求了值班的护士给找医生看看，可他们也无能为力，这个病特殊，“懂的人太少。
Anor ran across the road to Wuhan University stomatology hospital, where the nurses asked the duty nurse to see a doctor, but they are also powerless, the disease is special, "too few people understand.
”他觉得无力，“我想为他（孩子）做点什么，但好像就只能听天由命。
"He felt powerless." I wanted to do something for him [the child], but it seemed as if I had to resign myself to fate.
”出生还未满月的晏辰刚小朋友。
"Anchor was not born full moon children.
受访者供图更糟糕的是，1月30日，医院打来电话，“疫情期间，为了安全，同时那边病床也很紧张，就让把孩子接回来。
To make matters worse, on January 30, the hospital called and said, "During the outbreak, for the sake of safety and the tight beds there, let the children come back
”孩子抱回来那天，晏义威彻底懵了——出生刚满一周的儿子滴管喂养只能喂5毫升左右，呛奶也厉害，直接从鼻子和口里哗啦啦地流出来。
On the day the child returned, Anor was completely stunned -- barely a week old enough to feed his son drip-feed for about five milliliters, choking milk, and gurgling directly out of his nose and mouth.
他只能张着嘴巴呼吸，喉咙里一直有沙哑的声音，整个人没有一点点精神。
He could only breathe with his mouth open, there was a hoarse voice in his throat, and there was not a trace of spirit in him.
由于医疗资源紧张等原因，在疫情期间患上非肺炎疾病，无论疾病大小，危险程度都比往常更加一层。
As a result of the shortage of medical resources and other reasons, during the outbreak of non-pneumonia disease, regardless of the size of the disease, the degree of risk is higher than usual.
此前，民间组织“520志愿者团队”发起人陈星旭一直在帮新冠肺炎患者找床位，前期每天在微博肺炎患者求助超话（以下简称“微博超话”）里收集近200条信息。
Chen Xingxu, founder of the '520 Volunteer Team', a non-governmental organization, has been helping patients with pneumonia find beds, collecting nearly 200 messages a day in the micro-blogging pneumonia sufferer.
2月9日后，武汉开始落实新冠肺炎“四类人员”分类集中管理措施，到了2月14日，肺炎患者求助数量降至30条。
After February 9, Wuhan began to implement the centralized management measures for the classification of four groups of people with pneumonia. By February 14, the number of patients seeking help from pneumonia had dropped to 30.
更多非肺炎患者的求助占满了超话。
More people with non-pneumonia have suicidal help.
“其实这类患者一直在求救，只是之前被肺炎患者的求助淹没了。
"This kind of patient has been asking for help, only to be inundated by pneumonia patients.
” 吕清和朋友在2月11日发起了“不要红包志愿小组”，专门针对非肺炎患者进行救助，“他们当中的很多人也在安慰自己，觉得可以再缓一缓，但到了现在，一些危重症的患者等不起了。
"Many of them are consoling themselves with the idea of a little more relief, but by now some critically ill patients can no longer afford to wait.
”2月18日，晏义威发了朋友圈求助：“患儿仅出生20多天，根据医生的初步诊断为皮罗综合征，目前患儿由于呼吸困难+喂养困难，已上无创呼吸机……有生命危险，急需立即做手术。
On February 18, Anor sent a group of friends for help: "The child is only 20 days old, according to the doctor's initial diagnosis of Piro syndrome, the child is now breathing difficulties and feeding difficulties, on the non-invasive breathing machine... life-threatening, urgent need for immediate surgery.
”有个朋友把消息发布在微博超话里。
A friend posted the news in the Weibo hyperdrive.
这条微博被转发1000多次，“不要红包志愿小组”的成员宇航在他的微博首页看到朋友都在转，在求助的最后，晏辰刚的爸爸写道：“救救我家小宝宝吧，叩谢！再叩谢！三叩谢！”他马上打电话过去，“孩子爸爸有点哽咽，他的孩子需要转到南京医科大学附属儿童医院做手术，但儿童医院需要他出示核酸检测结果，可孩子和他都没有发烧的症状，不能获得核酸检测的名额，即便获得了名额，等待结果的时间一般会超过24小时，他担心孩子已经不能再继续等了。
At the end of his request, Anchor's father wrote, "Help my baby, kowtow! Thanks again! Thanks! Three kowtowing!" He immediately called, "The child's father has no fever, his children need to be transferred to Nanjing Medical University Children's Hospital, waiting for the results will generally be more than 24 hours.
”宇航平常会在微博里搜集求助信息，每天对接四至五名患者，问清他们的病情和需要得到的帮助，告诉他们官方已发布的收治非肺炎患者的医院信息，解答转诊需要办理的手续，再把患者信息收录进表格里，持续跟进。
Astronautics routinely collected help messages from microbloggers, docked four to five patients daily, asked them about their condition and the help they needed, told them about hospitals officially issued to treat patients with non-pneumonia, answered referrals and added patient information to a table for continuous follow-up.
目前“不要红包志愿小组”收录了110多位非肺炎患者，经过核实的危重症患者会被统一上报给央视新闻记者，央视新闻在2月15日公布了危重疾病患者可填写的求助信息平台。
The Volunteer Group Against Red Packs now includes more than 110 non-pneumonia patients, with verified cases reported to CCTV, which on Feb. 15 unveiled a help-information platform for patients with serious illnesses.
“低龄的孩子，或独居的老人，情况紧急的会优先考虑按危重症处理。
"Younger children, or older people who live alone, will be given priority for critical care in emergency situations.
”宇航听完晏辰刚的情况，让晏义威提供社区电话和孩子的身份证号，想把他归为危重症进行上报。
After listening to Anchor's case, Anor provided a community phone and a personal identity number for the child, hoping to report him as critically ill.
但晏义威告诉宇航：“孩子没有身份证。
But Anor told Astronautics: "The child has no ID card.
”和晏义威的通话时间只有3分钟，但宇航清楚记得他。
The talk with Anor lasted only three minutes, but the company clearly remembers him.
“因为疫情，宝宝连获得一个合法的身份都有困难。
"Because of the outbreak, the baby has difficulty even getting a legal status.
”最后上报的时候，晏辰刚的身份证一栏是空白的，在备注里，宇航写道：这是刚刚出生的婴儿。
At the time of the final report, Anchor's ID card column was blank, and in the notes, the company wrote: "This is a newborn baby.
异地转诊难题孩子出生前，晏义威的妻子每个月定期去做检查，染色体、NT、大小排畸、封闭抗体都做过，孩子出生后，医生告诉晏义威：“孩子得的是皮罗综合征，是染色体问题，即使在美国，也要经验很丰富的医生，才有50%的概率能查出来。
Before the birth of the child, Anor's wife went to check regularly every month. Chromosome, NT, teratogenic and closed antibodies were all done. After the birth of the child, the doctor told Anor: "The child has a derro syndrome, is a chromosomal problem, even in the United States, experienced doctors have a 50% chance of detection.
”皮罗综合征的特征是小颌畸形、舌后坠、腭裂及吸气性呼吸道阻塞。
Piero's syndrome is characterized by small jaw deformities, backward lingual pendants, cleft palate and inhaled respiratory obstruction.
“医生说孩子气管特别窄，只有2.5毫米，正常的宝宝是3.5到4毫米。
"The doctors said the child's windpipe was extremely narrow -- 2.5 millimetres -- and the average baby was 3.5 to 4 millimetres.
”晏义威在论坛发帖求助，网友建议他咨询该领域的权威专家——南京医科大学附属儿童医院的沈卫民医生，网上问诊之后，2月1日，沈卫民回复：“是小下颌（即皮罗综合征），血氧饱和度降到70%，肯定要做手术。
After consulting with Dr. Shen Weimin of the Children's Hospital of Nanjing Medical University, an authoritative expert in the field, Shen Weimin replied on Feb. 1 that the blood oxygen saturation had decreased to 70%.
”沈卫民告诉《极昼》：“孩子病情复杂，手术风险大，预后也未知”，因此他要先挺过这台手术，改善呼吸，之后或许还要应对各种伴发病。
"The child is complicated, the risk of surgery is high and the prognosis is unknown," Shen told the Daily.
可疫情严重，事情变得更麻烦。
But the epidemic is serious and things are getting more troublesome.
按武汉市疫情期间异地转诊的流程，患者和陪同人员需要做核酸检测，开具《非肺炎健康证明》，所用离汉车辆需要办理通行证，接收医院需向当地防疫指挥部备案。
According to the process of remote referral during the Wuhan epidemic period, patients and accompanying persons need to undergo nucleic acid testing, issue a non-pneumonia health certificate, use Chinese vehicles need to obtain a laissez-passer, the receiving hospital needs to report to the local epidemic prevention command.
2月20日晚上，“520志愿者团队”的发起人陈星旭也看到了晏义威的求助，他跟进过一位成功转诊去北京的患者，熟悉异地转诊需要办理的手续。
On the night of Feb. 20, Chen Xingxu, founder of '520 Volunteer Teams', also saw Yen's help, following up with a patient who had been successfully referred to Beijing to familiarize himself with the procedures required for an off-site referral.
第二天一早，陈星旭打通电话，电话那头的晏义威几近崩溃，“我问他一个事，他嘴里头不断地絮絮叨叨，回答的都是一些跟这事没关系的。
Early the next morning, Chen Xingxu called and the Anchor on the other end of the line nearly collapsed. "I asked him about this, and he kept rambling on about something that had nothing to do with it.
”陈星旭说。
'said Chen.
志愿者陈星旭（右）搬运物资送往医院。
Volunteer Chen Xingxu (right) moved supplies to hospital.
受访者供图陈星旭之前为肺炎患者找床位时，在网上到处搜罗相关的政府工作人员电话，也搜集到一些“有用”的联系方式。
When the respondents offered Chen Xingxu a bed for pneumonia patients, they searched the Internet for telephone numbers of relevant government staff and collected some useful contact information.
了解到目前孩子身体脆弱，要用呼吸机，需要救护车资源，陈星旭打电话给一位相关部门负责人，“当时他在开车，电话中断了四五次，断断续续地说完，他当场拍板说，他会跟进一下。
Aware that the child is fragile and needs ambulance resources to use a ventilator, Chen Xingxu called the head of a relevant department. "He was driving, the telephone was interrupted four or five times, and after interrupting, he slapped on the spot and said he would follow up
”中午之前，晏义威接到了街道办，江夏区和武汉市公安局的电话，他们跟陈星旭转达：“可以离开武汉了！省妇幼答应派救护车，但不能出湖北，只能送到安徽和湖北的交界处，黄梅县。
"Before noon, Anyi Wei received calls from the street office, Jiangxia district and Wuhan Public Security Bureau, who told Chen Xingxu:" You can leave Wuhan!
”下午3点多钟，宇航接到了晏义威的电话，“他好像比之前更着急了，语速也快，我一开始都听不清他说什么，后来了解他是不知道安徽这段路要怎么走。
"At more than 3 p.m., Anhui received a telephone call from Anhui." He seemed more anxious than before and spoke so fast that I could not hear him clearly at first.
”宇航没有对接过车队，猜想晏义威当时是“病急乱投医”，他的号码归属地是安徽，晏义威可能注意到这一点，所以来询问能不能提供安徽的资源。
The company did not take over the team, guessing that Anhui was "in a state of emergency" and that his number belonged to Anhui province, which Anhui may have noticed, so Anhui asked if Anhui resources could be provided.
晏辰刚的妈妈刚坐完月子，志愿者的电话也打到她手机上，按他们的提示，她第一次出了门，做了核酸检测，回到家消完毒，紧接着就给安徽省相关部门打电话，“最后打到急救中心，急救中心说，因为疫情原因，救护车都被征用了，目前没有可调度的车。
At their instructions, she went out for the first time, had a nucleic acid test, returned home to eliminate the poison, and then called the Anhui provincial authorities. "Finally, the emergency center said the ambulance was requisitioned, because of the epidemic, there is no car to dispatch.
”除了车辆接洽之外，医院接收也是个难题。
In addition to vehicle contact, hospital admissions can be a challenge.
南京医科大学附属儿童医院院办工作人员于露露告诉《极昼》，“医院本质是救命治人，只要孩子能通过正常的渠道到我们医院来，我们做好了为他手术的准备。
"The hospital is all about saving lives," Lulu said. "As long as the child comes to our hospital through normal channels, we are ready to operate on him.
但是疫情下，他要怎么过来，防控措施怎么做，就要由上面行政部门来去协调和沟通了。
But under the epidemic situation, how he will pass, the control measures how to do, it is up to the above-mentioned administrative departments to coordinate and communicate.
”吕清一直在关注这场救助的进展，她觉得，好像和她之前跟进过的异地转诊失败案例一样，这个案例也正在走进死胡同。
Lu, who has been watching the progress of the rescue, felt as if the case was heading into a dead end, as was the case with failed referrals she had previously followed.
“首先出湖北之后的路段不知道要怎么走，走的时候会不会被卡；南京的医院和当地防疫指挥部沟通的情况未知，不知道是不是确实能够收治病人；2月21日，孩子的父母才去做第一次核酸检测，一般24小时后出结果，按正常流程，两次核酸检测结果都呈阴性，才能找社区办理《非肺炎健康证明》；另外仍然没确定的是，从武汉出来的人，到了南京，是否需要隔离14天。
On February 21, the parents of the children went to the first nucleic acid test and did not know whether they would be able to receive the first nucleic acid test. On February 21, the parents of the children did not have a first nucleic acid test.
”吕清说：“这些未定的沟通和等待的时间，孩子等得起吗？”那时的陈星旭跟她一样绝望，到处求人，“我知道朋友圈有搞企业的，有搞媒体的，可能有能力、有发声权的，我都去求了个遍。
"Can a child afford to wait for these uncertain times of communication and waiting?" Chen Xingxu was as desperate as she was, begging everywhere.
”天黑之前，事情终于有了进展。
Things finally got better before dark.
幸运和常态和陈星旭同在华中科技大学校友会群里的何春晖回了他的消息，“这个事我给你想想办法”，她说。
Luck and normality and Chen Xingxu returned his message from He Chunhui of the Alumni Association of Huazhong University of Science and Technology. "I'll let you know about this," she said.
“实际上，我跟春晖师姐素昧平生，平常我们也就在群里聊两句，没什么特别的关系。
"In fact, I and Chunhui master sister unknown life, usually we also chat in the group, nothing special.
”陈星旭看到她的回复，觉得踏实了些，以前群里求助，提供政府部门联系方式的多是她，他猜测她“有比较高的职位”，只是具体在哪个单位、做什么工作，一概不知。
Chen Xingxu felt relieved to see her reply, saying she was the one who had asked for help from the group and provided government contact details, and he assumed she had a "higher position" and knew nothing about where and what she was doing.
半小时后，何春晖打电话过来，“她说已经对接了相关事项，答应全程跟踪路上的事。
Half an hour later, He Chunhui called. "She said she had docked the matter and promised to follow up everything on the way.
”当时还有位《扬子晚报》的记者找到陈星旭，要了解这次救助的具体情况，陈星旭拜托他去问南京医科大学附属儿童医院的态度，“春晖学姐的电话挂掉后，南京那边紧接着就传来好消息，说医院同意接收这孩子。
"Chen Xingxu asked Chen Xingxu, a reporter for the Yangzi Evening News, to find out how the rescue was handled." When Chunhui's phone rang off, good news immediately came from Nanjing that the hospital had agreed to accept the child.
”何春晖是60后，上世纪90年代到了北京，在国务院部委工作了20多年，后来下了海，是校友群里的前辈，她又联系了华中科技大学南京校友会的两个同学，“一位是南京当地的企业家，一位是央级媒体的工作人员，他们也去联系了南京卫健委和儿童医院。
"He Chunhui, 60 years later, arrived in Beijing in the 1990s and worked in a ministry for more than 20 years before she went to sea. She contacted two alumni of the Nanjing Alumni Association of the Huazhong University of Science and Technology.
”何春晖说：“从他们那儿再次得到确认，医院接收是完全没问题的，只要湖北的医院开一个（转院证明），南京的医院就开转入证明，只要孩子两次核酸结果是阴性，直接送进医院。
"It was confirmed from them again that the hospital's reception was all right, as long as a hospital in Hubei opened one (transfer certificate) and the hospital in Nanjing turned over the certificate and sent the child directly to the hospital if the nucleic acid results were negative twice," he said.
”陈星旭甚至还找到了另一个替代方案。
Chen even found another alternative.
“《湖北日报》的记者推给我一个直升机公司的联系方式，他们有医疗直升机，高氧环境，带隔离舱和呼吸机，非常罕见，也适合这孩子，只是价格贵，一趟要30万。
"Hubei Daily reporters gave me the contact information of a helicopter company with a medical helicopter, a high oxygen environment, an isolation chamber and a respirator, which is very rare and suitable for the child, but it costs 300,000 a trip.
”他把这事告诉了何春晖，那时他们还在担心路上可能被卡的问题，她说：“我们群里刚捐了一部分钱，不管多少钱，我们都把它租下来。
He told him about it, and they were worried about getting stuck on the road when she said, "We just donated some money from our group and we rent it no matter how much it costs.
”到了21日晚上，晏义威已经不再需要担心车辆途中被卡和医院无法收治的问题了。
By the evening of the 21st, Anor no longer needed to worry about getting stuck in the car and being hospitalized.
救护车载着晏辰刚离开武汉。
The ambulance with Yan just left Wuhan.
受访者供图在过去的这一个月中，他每天只睡三、四个小时，吃过早饭去医院，晚上8点过后回到家再吃第二顿。
In the past month, he only slept three or four hours a day. He went to the hospital after breakfast and went home after 8pm for a second meal.
他老家在孝感，在武汉做程序员，房子买在江夏区，离省妇幼保健院20公里远，他没有车，每天骑电动车过去。
His hometown in filial piety, as a programmer in Wuhan, the house bought in Jiangxia District, 20 kilometers away from the provincial maternal and child health care center, he did not have a car, every day riding electric cars.
电动车的电不够用，就骑到省中医院门口，再换一辆共享单车。
Electric cars do not have enough electricity, so ride to the door of the provincial Chinese Hospital, and then a shared bicycle.
这一路要花两个小时。
The journey will take two hours.
3天前发朋友圈时，他做好了最坏的心理打算，“从13号到18号，一周的时间，我每天都在求人，一辈子也没求过那么多人，最后我已经觉得自己彻底没戏了，找不到办法的感觉太难了。
Three days ago he prepared for the worst when he started out in a circle of friends. "I was begging for people every day for a week from the 13th to 18th, and I didn't ask so many people in my life.
”但自从陈星旭打来电话，困难接连着被解决。
But since Chen Xingxu called, the difficulties have been solved one after another.
隔了一天，志愿者又帮忙找到了救护车，医疗救援公司武汉安达讯医疗救护站可租赁的救护车上配备着呼吸机，武汉至南京要价18000元。
The next day, the volunteers helped find the ambulance, which can be rented by the medical rescue company Wuhan Andacun equipped with a ventilator, Wuhan to Nanjing for 18,000 yuan.
作为陪同家属的晏义威需要做的，只剩等待晏辰刚的第二次核酸检测结果，和准备好到南京后直接接受14天隔离。
All that remains for Anchor to do as an accompanying family member is to wait for Anchor's second nucleic acid test, and be ready to be quarantined for 14 days after his arrival in Nanjing.
现在难题消解，从武汉到南京，当时看来无法跨越的1000多里路，就这样被打通了。
Now the difficult problem resolved, from Wuhan to Nanjing, then seems unable to cross the 1000-mile road, so was opened.
他到底也不知道是谁帮了忙，“只知道有很多热心的志愿者。
He didn't even know who was helping. "All he knew was that there were lots of enthusiastic volunteers.
”在陈星旭和吕清的经验中，展现出像这样强有效的救助不多见。
In the experience of Chen Xingxu and Lu Qing, showing such strong and effective relief is rare.
只不过这次，有一只“无形的手”加入，它背后有强有力的社会资源，在碰到它时，志愿者们火苗一样的热心燃烧起来，才得以温暖起那些苦难。
Only this time, an "invisible hand" was added, with a powerful social resource behind it, and when the volunteers met it, they warmed up the suffering with a flame of enthusiasm.
“这个宝宝真的无敌幸运。
"This baby is really unbeatable.
”吕清说。
"said Lu Qing.
她同时跟进的一位疑似白血病患者涂春萍，就在2月22日，被湖南的一家医院拒绝收治。
She also followed up on a suspected leukemia patient, Pu Chunping, who was admitted to a hospital in Hunan province on February 22.
26岁的涂春萍十多天前在孝感市中心医院查出疑似急性白血病，他的白细胞只有正常人的三分之一。
The 26-year-old Tu Chunping, who was diagnosed with acute leukemia at Xiaogan City Central Hospital more than 10 days ago, has only one-third of normal leukocytes.
“他需要到武汉市同济医院、协和医院、中南医院这样的大医院拿穿刺检测结果，然后确诊，得到治疗方案。
"He needs to go to major hospitals such as Tongji Hospital, Concorde Hospital and Zhongnan Hospital to get the results of the puncture test and then diagnose and get the treatment plan.
”涂春萍的姐姐告诉吕清：“现在打电话去问，医院的实验室没开，检测做不了，武汉市其他收治非新冠肺炎病人的医院也挨个问过去，都说做不了。
"Her sister, Yu Chunping, told Lu:" Now call to ask if the hospital's laboratory is open and the test cannot be done.
”2月16日，她打算带着弟弟去省外就诊，因为受不了远路颠簸，所以考虑去湖南的一家医院。
On February 16, she decided to take her younger brother to a hospital in Hunan province because she couldn't bear the long bumps.
涂春萍已经拿到了《非肺炎患者健康证明》，做好了过去隔离14天的准备，也在联系找当地的防疫指挥部开具车辆通行证。
Du Chunping, who has obtained a "Health Certificate for Non-Pneumonia," is ready to be quarantined for the past 14 days and is in contact with the local vaccination command to issue vehicle passes.
行前准备妥当，终于等来了医院的确切回复：“血液科没有多余床位。
Ready for the trip, finally came the hospital response: "There is no spare beds in the hematology department.
”“涂春萍求助有快10天了，能想的办法，能使的方式，都试过了。
"" I've been asking for help for nearly 10 days, and I've tried everything I can think of to make it work.
”吕清说，“一开始他们是找了亲戚去打听医院的情况，医院说可以接受，但现在（医院）可能还是不想要湖北的病人过去，一旦出去的任何一个人成为了传染源，那就有人要担责，谁敢担责？”拯救宝宝和拯救武汉陈星旭觉得晏辰刚小朋友就像电影中的主角，他们是帮他“通关”的助手。
"At first, they asked relatives for information about the hospital, but now they probably don't want Hubei patients to pass on. If anyone goes out and becomes the source of infection, who is responsible?"
在把他送上救护车之前，志愿者们没敢泄劲，还在忙着确认路上可能遇到的障碍。
Undaunted, the volunteers were busy identifying the obstacles they might encounter before they took him to the ambulance.
2月23日，安徽交通广播的记者答应陈星旭，“只要进了安徽境内，一旦出问题马上负责协调。
Feb. 23, Anhui traffic radio reporters agreed with Chen Xingxu, "as long as they enter Anhui territory, once the problem immediately responsible for coordination.
”湖北省相关部门也给他发来消息，“让把具体走哪一条路线编辑成信息发过去，他们派专人跟进。
Relevant departments in Hubei Province also sent him a message saying, "Let's edit the exact route into information and send someone to follow it up.
”路途中的不确定因素几乎消失，2月24日上路之前，只剩一项任务：拿到晏辰刚的第二次核酸检测报告。
Uncertainties along the way almost disappeared, and before setting out on February 24, there was only one task left: getting Anchor's second nucleic acid test report.
实在等不及，傍晚近7点钟，陈星旭又去请求洪山区卫健委一名工作人员的帮忙，7点13分得到检测结果，“阴性，可以出发了。
I can't wait. At nearly 7 o'clock in the evening, Chen Xingxu went to ask a staff member of the Hongshan District Health Commission for help.
”他一整天都在发信息，打电话，手机充了五次电，“有些人都躲着我了，嫌我烦吧？”他发来“捂脸”的表情。
"He spent the day sending messages, making phone calls and charging his cell phone five times," Some people are avoiding me, don't you think I'm annoyed? "He sent a" cover over his face "look.
从接到求助信息到这会儿，过了将近72个小时，过程中他怕自己赶不上时间，怕孩子没办法熬过漫长的等待，现在心理终于安稳一些。
By the time he received the help message, nearly 72 hours had passed, and he was afraid that he would not catch up with the time and that the child would not survive the long wait.
他记着晏义威给他发来的孩子照片，小小的人被包在被子里，半张着嘴巴呼吸，“他太小了，一定要把他救下来。
He remembered Anchor's photo of the child. The little man was wrapped in a quilt and breathed with his mouth half open.
”这样的心情对陈星旭来说，在做志愿者的日子里再熟悉不过了。
Such sentiments are all too familiar to Chen Xingxu in her volunteer days.
帮肺炎患者找床位的那段时间，他接触了很多无助的人和消息，把他压得几乎喘不过气。
During the time he was looking for a bed for pneumonia patients, he had contact with a lot of helpless people and news, he was almost out of breath.
有段时间，陈星旭也发烧了，“干咳，咳得心肝肺疼，有唾液状的痰，症状很像肺炎患者。
For a time, Chen Xingxu also had a fever. "Dry cough, coughing up heart and liver pain, saliva-like sputum, symptoms very similar to pneumonia.
”但症状消失得也快，他后来想想，可能叫心理代入。
But the symptoms disappeared quickly, he thought later, perhaps as a proxy for psychology.
和他一样，吕清的心里也积压了层层无力感。
Like him, Lu Qing's heart has accumulated layers of powerlessness.
“一天晚上，我跟一个老人通电话，他老伴因为肺炎去世了，女儿重症去了医院，他自己一个人进了隔离点，电话里他哭了，我当时虽然还能保持正常跟他问话，但我知道那次对我来说是有阴影的，我很晚才睡，一躺下来，眼泪就流出来了。
"One night I was on the phone with an old man whose wife had died of pneumonia and whose daughter had gone to the hospital badly. He went into isolation alone. He cried on the phone.
”对晏辰刚的救助有了眉目之后，吕清决定之后不再跟进新的患者案例，过去近一个月里，她把所有的精力都放在志愿活动上，现在，她准备回归正常生活，接下来计划申请读博，“最后，只希望听到小朋友顺利到南京的消息。
"After Anchor's rescue, Lu decided not to follow up on the new patients' cases. For the past month or so, she devoted all her energy to voluntary activities.
”晏辰刚身边有湖北省妇幼保健院医护人员随行，挺过了1000里长路。
Anchor was accompanied by medical staff from the Hubei Provincial Maternal and Child Health Institute, who survived the 1000-mile long road.
受访者供图2月23日晚9点，一切就绪，陈星旭已经在向各个参与接力救援的志愿者群里发布准备启程的消息，没想到“通关”路上仍有关卡。
The interviewee was ready for the start of the journey at 9: 00 pm on Feb. 23. Chen Xingxu was already announcing her departure to the various volunteer groups involved in the relay.
晚上11点，湖北省妇幼保健院的医生给晏辰刚做身体评估，“路太远，孩子太虚弱，路上一旦出状况，没法处理，孩子夭折的风险有60%。
At 11 pm, doctors at Hubei Provincial Maternal and Child Health Center gave Yan a physical evaluation. "The road is too far, the child is too weak, once the situation on the road, can not deal with, the risk of premature death of the child is 60%.
”陈星旭感觉他的心像被人揪着。
'Chen Xingxu felt his heart pulled.
如果省妇幼保健院允许晏辰刚的主治医生和护士一起陪同，能大大提高他的生存几率，陈星旭又去征求医院领导的同意，零点之后，他发来哭泣的表情，“同意了，（医院）支援儿科医生和护士。
If the provincial MCH had allowed Anchor's attending doctors and nurses to accompany him, his chances of survival would have been greatly improved. Chen Xingxu went back to the hospital leadership to ask for permission.
”“我的心脏都要爆炸了。
"" My heart is going to explode.
”他说。
'he said.
现在，晏辰刚小朋友终于可以离开武汉，到南京做手术了。
Now, the children can finally leave Wuhan, to Nanjing to do surgery.
一场成功的转诊，也帮陈星旭完成了一次心理补偿，抚平过去一个月里，他触碰到的更多无解以及由此积压的情绪。
A successful referral also helped Chen Xingxu to make amends for more confusion and accumulated emotions he encountered over the past month.
他有很多联想。
He has many associations.
“这孩子来到世界上29天，29天的生命中，他所受到的磨难跟武汉一模一样。
"The child came to the world 29 days, 29 days of life, he suffered the same as Wuhan.
他得的病叫皮罗综合症，是一种跟呼吸有关的疾病，他气管非常纤细，呼吸困难，实际上，武汉好像得的也是这样的病。
His illness, called Pyro's syndrome, is a respiratory illness. His trachea is very thin and he has difficulty breathing. In fact, Wuhan seems to have it.
”他告诉晏义威：“你不要谢我，我们拯救的不仅仅是你的孩子，我们拯救的是武汉。
"You don't thank me," he told Anor. "We didn't just save your children, we saved Wuhan.
”2月24日，中午1点钟，晏辰刚小朋友坐上了去往南京的救护车，他被包裹在粉红色的被褥里，扎紧了安全带，救护车开到150码，路上颠簸，他的鼻饲管断了一根，幸好有医生帮忙更换，晏义威站起来，远远地望着他。
On February 24, at 1: 00 noon, Anchor got into an ambulance to Nanjing. He was wrapped in pink bedding, fastened his seatbelt, the ambulance drove to 150 yards, his nasal feeding tube broke. Fortunately, a doctor helped replace him, Yue stood up and looked at him from afar.
晚上7点多钟，小朋友挺过了长路，到达南京医科大学附属儿童医院。
More than 7 pm, the children survived the long road to the Nanjing Medical University affiliated children's hospital.
从那时开始，这位小朋友便只需要努力同疾病抗争了。
From then on, the little boy had only to struggle against the disease.
（应采访对象要求，文中吕清为化名）后台回复"读者群",加入更多讨论。
At the request of the interviewee, Lu Qing is a pseudonym.) Background & quot; Reader & quot; joined in more discussion.
小昼。
Daylight.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
已喜欢，对作者说句悄悄话。
Like it, whisper to the author.
发送给作者。
Send to author.
最多40字，当前共字。
Up to 40 words, currently in common.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉新生儿和一场72小时救援。
Wuhan newborn baby and a 72-hour rescue.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "极昼工作室";。
Var nickname = & quot; daytime studio & quot;;
var msg_title = "武汉新生儿和一场72小时救援";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Wuhan Newborn and a 72-hour rescue & quot;;
var msg_desc = "我们拯救的不仅仅是你的孩子，我们拯救的是武汉。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; we didn't just save your child; we saved Wuhan.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="极昼工作室";。
var title = & quot; day studio & quot;;
