疫情大爆发、开始封城的意大利，当地华侨都经历了什么？。
What happened to the local Chinese in Italy, where the outbreak and closure of the city began?
健闻毛晓琼。
Hear Mao Xiaoqiong.
八点健闻                      。
Eight good news.
八点健闻。
Eight good news.
看得懂的健康专业新闻。
Understandable health professional news.
据最新数据，意大利确诊新冠病例数已超过7000，累计死亡366例，是除中国之外，全球疫情最严重的国家。
Italy has more than 7,000 confirmed new cases and 366 cumulative deaths, making it the world's worst affected country after China, according to the latest figures.
在意大利的华侨人数众多。
There are many Chinese living in Italy.
武汉疫情起来时，他们积极捐款捐物，把当地能买到的口罩一扫而空。
Wuhan when the outbreak, they actively donated goods, the local can buy a mask swept away.
意大利医疗系统对新冠肺炎救治乏力，防疫措施也不到位，一家酒吧主动申请停业反被当地政府拒绝。
Italy's health-care system for the treatment of pneumonia, vaccination measures are not in place, a bar initiative to close down the local government rejected.
海外疫情日渐严重，一些华侨想回国避险，却不小心带病回国。
The overseas epidemic is becoming more and more serious. Some overseas Chinese want to return home to avoid danger.
有华侨团体发起号召，没事不要回去，以免给国家添乱。
There are overseas Chinese groups launched a call, nothing to go back, so as not to add chaos to the country.
国内新冠疫情逐步得到控制之际，境外疫情的反噬成为各方关注的焦点。
With the new crown epidemic under control, the autophagy of the epidemic abroad has become the focus of attention.
官方每日疫情报告中，已有多地出现海外输入病例的情况。
An increasing number of overseas cases have been reported in the official daily epidemic reports.
截至3月7日，中国累计报告境外输入确诊病例63例。
As of March 7, China had reported 63 confirmed cases imported from abroad.
浙江青田籍华侨陈晖在意大利生活了9年，他所在的米兰是这次疫情的重灾区。
Chen Hui, an overseas Chinese from Qingtian, Zhejiang, who lived in Italy for nine years, is in Milan, the epicentre of the epidemic.
从3月8日凌晨起，米兰所在的伦巴第大区被划入红色隔离区，除执行任务的军警、医护人员和紧急救援人员，禁止所有人员出入。
Since the early hours of 8 March, the Lombardy region, where Milan is located, has been classified as a red zone of separation, closed to all personnel except military, medical and emergency personnel on duty.
伦巴第大区以外，其他大区还有14个省也被隔离封锁。
In addition to the Lombardy region, 14 other wilayas have been isolated and sealed off.
意大利全国四分之一的人口都将受到影响。
A quarter of Italy's population will be affected.
意大利效仿了中国武汉的封城措施，而此时距离武汉封城已经过去了一个半月。
Italy has followed the example of Wuhan, China, which is a month and a half after the closure of the city.
陈晖直言，自己经历了两轮疫情的冲击，一次是中国国内的，一次是意大利的。
Chen Hui bluntly said that he had experienced two rounds of the impact of the epidemic, one in China and one in Italy.
据最新数据，意大利确诊病例已达7375例，暂时超过韩国，是除中国之外全球确诊病例数最多的国家。
According to the latest data, the number of confirmed cases in Italy has reached 7,375, temporarily surpassing that of South Korea, making it the country with the highest number of confirmed cases in the world outside China.
且单日新增病例过千，速度惊人。
And a day new cases of more than a thousand, the speed is alarming.
尤其是，意大利国内已有366位新冠病人死亡，这一数字也排在全球第二。
In particular, Italy has 366 new deaths, the second highest number in the world.
陈晖向八点健闻讲述了他自疫情爆发以来的经历。
Chen told Mr. Jian about his experience since the outbreak of the outbreak.
关于海外华侨的处境，他希望国内同胞能够理性客观地看待。
With regard to the situation of overseas Chinese, he hoped that his compatriots in China would take a rational and objective view.
意大利人不喜欢戴口罩意大利当地时间的2月23日，我下决心把店关了。
Italians don't like wearing masks On February 23, local time in Italy, I made up my mind to close the shop.
这个店是2015年和一个朋友合开的，位于米兰闹市区，主要卖些电脑、手机之类的电子通讯物品。
The store, which opened in 2015 with a friend, is located in downtown Milan and sells electronic communications such as computers and mobile phones.
米兰是意大利的经济首都，又是旅游胜地，所以生意一直不错。
Milan is Italy's economic capital and tourist destination, so business has been good.
关店的原因很简单——那一天，意大利新冠确诊病例飙升到了215例。
The reason for the closure is simple - the number of confirmed cases in Italy surged to 215 that day.
这在当时是一个很惊人的数字。
That was an astonishing number at the time.
要知道，在2月20日以前，意大利总共只发现了3个新冠病人，并且全都是在2月3日以前确诊的。
To be sure, by February 20, Italy had found only three new cases, all diagnosed by February 3.
这个数字连续17天没有增加，大家都以为疫情已经过去了。
That number has not increased for 17 consecutive days, and everyone believes that the epidemic is over.
其实到现在，我也没有想明白为什么欧洲疫情重灾区会在意大利。
In fact, so far, I do not understand why the European outbreak of the worst affected areas in Italy.
1月30日，意大利确诊了首个新冠病例（是来自武汉的游客），第二天，总理孔特就下令切断和中国所有的航班往来，宣布全国进入紧急状态。
On January 30, Italy confirmed its first new crown case (a visitor from Wuhan), and the next day Prime Minister Conte ordered all flights to and from China to be cut off, declaring a state of emergency.
2月23日，意大利政府又对疫情最严重的伦巴第和威尼托两个大区的11个小镇采取了封闭措施。
On 23 February, the Government of Italy imposed closure measures on 11 small towns in the Lombardy and Veneto regions, where the epidemic was most severe.
但意大利人有一个很大的问题，或许也是所有欧洲国民的问题——不喜欢戴口罩。
But Italians have a big problem, perhaps all European nationals, who don't like wearing masks.
即便是在确诊病例已经超过3000例的情况下，你到米兰的大街上去观察，差不多只有六分之一的人是戴着口罩的，而且大多数都是亚洲人。
Even with more than 3,000 confirmed cases, only about one in six people in Milan wear a mask, and most of them are Asian.
这和传统有关，1975年，意大利就制定了全国性的禁止蒙面法，严禁在公共场合穿任何可能遮盖人脸的服装、无法识别的口罩或面具，否则会被罚款甚至监禁。
This is related to tradition, since in 1975 Italy enacted a national law against masking, which prohibits the wearing in public of any clothing that might cover one's face, an unidentified mask or a mask, on pain of a fine or even imprisonment.
在这次疫情中，意大利官方依然是这样的态度。
This is still the attitude of Italian officials in this epidemic.
意大利内政部有一个宣导：口罩要留给生病的人，健康的人不需要戴。
Italy's Interior Ministry has a message: masks should be left to the sick, healthy people do not need to wear.
于是，所有的主流媒体也都是按着这个思路在宣传防疫措施，你可以想象一下，就相当于新闻联播告诉你，没有症状可以不戴口罩。
So, all the mainstream media are also promoting along this line of thought, you can imagine, the equivalent of news broadcast told you that no symptoms can be without a mask.
这种宣传给民间的防控工作带来很大的负面效应。
This kind of propaganda has brought a lot of negative effect to the control work of civil society.
疫情刚爆发的时候，我们曾经到米兰市中心的大教堂门口去发过免费的口罩，很少有人会来领。
When the outbreak first broke out, we went to the cathedral in downtown Milan and gave out free masks, which few people would collect.
更讽刺的是，就在离我们30米不到的地方，好多意大利人聚在一块唱歌跳舞……后来我们就放弃了，想想还是把自己隔离在家里算了。
Ironically, just 30 meters from us, a lot of Italians came together to sing and dance... and then we gave up and thought about isolating ourselves at home.
我的邻居是一对60多岁的老夫妇，算是当地人中比较焦虑的，因为现在意大利的新冠死亡病例基本都是上了年纪的，所以他们本能地会有点害怕。
My neighbor, an elderly couple in their 60s, is a bit of a local worry, since most of Italy's new crown deaths are now mostly of old age, so they are naturally a little bit scared.
一开始他们也不戴口罩，还经常会来问我，说你们中国人为什么要戴口罩，戴口罩有什么用？我和他们大致讲解了以后，他们才将信将疑地把口罩戴上。
At first they didn't wear masks, and they often came to me and asked me why you Chinese wear masks and masks.
意大利还有一个很不好的地方，虽然很早就切断了和中国的航班，但机场基本没有任何防控措施，不测体温也不会问询。
Italy also has a very bad place, although the early cut-off of flights with China, but the airport basically no control measures, temperature and will not inquire.
这种宽松的管理就很容易带来更大的问题，尤其是意大利加入了申根协定，持有申根区任意一国的身份证或签证，就可以在全部26国之间自由往来。
Such lax regulation can easily lead to even greater problems, especially when Italy is a party to the Schengen Agreement and holds an identity card or visa from any country in the Schengen area, allowing free movement between all 26 countries.
这是一件很危险的事。
It's a dangerous thing to do.
巴西的前4例病例，都是从意大利这儿过去的。
The first four cases in Brazil were all from Italy.
米兰人被逼到失去优雅对于意大利的华侨来说，这40多天里，等于是经历了两次疫情。
The Rossoneri were forced to lose grace. For the Chinese of Italy, the 40-plus days were equivalent to two outbreaks.
一次是中国的，一次是这边的。
Once for China, once for this side.
1月份国内疫情爆发的时候，我们的心也是被揪着的。
When the outbreak of domestic violence broke out in January, our hearts were torn.
一方面是我们都有家人在国内。
On the one hand we all have family at home.
另一方面，我也是出国以后才明白，人在异乡会更爱国。
On the other hand, it was only after I went abroad that I realized that people in foreign countries will be more patriotic.
那个阶段，除了不停刷新闻以外，我们能做的就是捐款捐物资。
At that stage, all we could do was donate money, except to keep brushing the news.
欧洲的大城市一般都会有当地的侨联侨社，我们大部分是给这些团体捐款，由他们出面来组织购买物资。
Large European cities generally have local diaspora associations, and most of us donate money to these groups to organize the purchase of goods.
我个人大概捐了4万人民币左右，不算多，只能说是量力而行。
Personally, I have donated about 40,000 RMB, which is not much, but only according to my ability.
我认识的一个青田同乡，85后女生，在米兰做代购生意，她那次是专门跑到瑞士去订了好几箱N95口罩寄回国内。
I know a fellow native of Qingtian, a 85-year-old schoolgirl, who worked as a buying agent in Milan when she went to Switzerland to order several cases of N95 masks and sent them back home.
还有一个华人，一下子买空了米兰一家药店10年的口罩库存，这件事情最后还上了新闻。
A Chinese shopkeeper emptied a 10-year-old supply of masks at a Milan drugstore, and the matter ended up in the news.
△ 受访者供图意大利人一开始会有点震惊，但是他们的观念就是你想买就买，这是你的自由，我们只要谈好价钱就行。
Interviewees can be a bit of a shock at first, but the idea is that if you want to buy, it's your freedom. We just have to negotiate a good price.
后来我们几个朋友也在分析，这很可能也是导致意大利内政部不建议戴口罩的原因之一，因为到后来意大利疫情再爆发的时候，这边已经几乎买不到口罩了。
Several of our friends later analyzed the mask, which was probably one of the reasons why Italy's interior ministry did not recommend it, because by the time the outbreak resumed, it would have been almost non-existent.
如果这个时候政府提出口罩很重要，但又买不到的话，是会引起民怨的。
If it is important for the government to put up a mask at this time, but it cannot be bought, it will cause people to complain.
我们往国内捐的物资，一部分会寄到武汉，还有一部分会寄到自己的家乡。
Some of the materials we donate to China will be sent to Wuhan, and some will be sent to our hometown.
我记得当时网上新出了一个词叫“自杀式援助”，大意是浙江省向武汉狂捐物资，结果发现本省的医院也物资短缺。
I remember a new word on the Internet called "suicide aid," to the effect that Zhejiang province donated materials to Wuhan, found that the province's hospitals are also in short supply.
得知这个情况，我们这些浙江出来的华侨一方面是很自豪，另一方面也很心疼，所以也会把一部分的物资寄回浙江。
We, the overseas Chinese from Zhejiang, are proud of this situation and will send some of our materials back to Zhejiang.
之前说到的那个女生，她买到的口罩就是寄回了青田和杭州。
The girl mentioned earlier, she bought a mask is sent back to Qingtian and Hangzhou.
我个人后来还给武汉捐了一次款，1888元，捐到了武汉市慈善总会的账户，当时是希望这件事情能够一切顺利。
I personally donated a sum of 1888 yuan to Wuhan City Charity Association's account, hoping it would all go well.
结果我刚打完款的第二天，就从新闻里刷到了当地慈善机构不作为的新闻，真的是非常非常生气。
It turned out that the day after I finished typing, I was very, very angry with the news about the inaction of the local charity.
那次我直接在个人社交账户上爆了粗口，真心觉得不能理解。
That time I used to swear directly on my personal social account, and I really didn't understand it.
没有想到的是，一个月后，意大利也上演了物资抢购潮，我还成了亲历者。
Unexpectedly, a month later, Italy also staged a material rush, I have become a personal experience.
那是2月28日的时候，礼拜五，我出门去当地的一个连锁超市采购食材。
On Friday, February 28, I was out shopping for ingredients at a local supermarket chain.
一到超市我就傻眼了，货架上的东西差不多全被搬空了。
As soon as I got to the supermarket, everything on the shelf was almost empty.
后来，我亲眼看到一个工作人员推着一车的肉准备上货，至少有20多盒吧，他还没有推到货架边呢，车上的肉已经被抢完了。
Later, I saw a staff member pushing a load of meat ready to load, at least 20 boxes, he has not been pushed to the shelf, the meat has been robbed.
当天，抢东西的人基本都是亚洲人。
On that day, most of the looters were Asians.
△ 受访者供图第二天，超市又被抢空了，这次的主力变成了意大利本地人，他们怕再不抢就抢不到了。
The following day, the supermarket was emptied again. This time, the main force has become a native of Italy.
后来，我听到不止一个意大利人跟我说，他们从来没有想过哪一天，自己需要去超市抢购物资。
Later, I heard more than one Italian tell me that they had never thought of the day when they needed to go to the supermarket to buy things.
米兰人骨子里是很优雅的，很会享受生活，做什么事情都是慢条斯理，把他们逼到这份上，我也觉得很不可思议。
Milanese are very elegant, very enjoy life, do everything in a slow manner, they forced them to this, I also feel very strange.
为了当地人的早餐，政府不让关店意大利的华侨很多，来自青田的就有10万人。
For local breakfast, the government refused to allow many Chinese to close their shops in Italy, with 100,000 from Qingtian.
过去这段时间里，我们其实一直都在担惊受怕。
In the past few days, we've been in constant fear.
意大利现在有两个重灾区，都在北部。
Italy now has two major disaster areas, both in the north.
一个是以米兰为首府的伦巴第大区，另一个是以威尼斯为首府的威尼托大区。
One is the Lombardy region, with Milan as its capital, and the other is the Veneto region, with Venice as its capital.
浙江曝出的第一例境外输入型病例，就是在伦巴第大区贝加莫省开餐厅的，和我生活的米兰相距不到50公里。
The first case of an imported case from Zhejiang was opened in the province of Bergamo in Lombardy, less than 50 kilometres from the city where I live.
我不认识那个姓王的老板娘，但我们都是青田人。
I don't know that Madam Wang, but we are all from Qingtian.
从我了解到的情况来看，她在2月16日就有发烧的症状，并且在意大利看过医生，但医生觉得她只是普通感冒，开了两颗退烧药，嘱咐多喝水，就让她回去了。
From what I learned, she developed fever on February 16 and went to see a doctor in Italy, but the doctor thought she had a common cold, prescribed two antipyretics and ordered her to go home.
她自己可能觉得情况不妙（因为她是开餐厅的，每天接触的人很多），在得不到很好救治的情况下才决定要回国。
She may not feel very well herself (because she owns a restaurant and has a lot of contacts every day) and decides to go home without proper medical attention.
这种情况在意大利的医疗系统中很普遍，医生对于轻症病人的处理是很低效的。
This is common in the Italian healthcare system, where doctors are ineffective in treating patients with mild illness.
我曾经在米兰也碰到过类似的情况，发烧感冒了去看医生，他会说，你先等一等，让我喝完这一杯咖啡。
I've had a similar situation in Milan where I went to see a doctor with a fever and he would say, "Wait a minute and let me finish this cup of coffee."
这在平时没什么问题，但当大面积的疫情侵袭过来的时候，他们的医生是处理不了那么棘手的状况的，他们的卫生主管部门也不具备调动多方资源的能力。
This is not a problem in normal times, but when a massive epidemic strikes, their doctors cannot handle the tricky situation, and their health authorities do not have the capacity to mobilize multiple resources.
前几天，意大利的医院和武汉某医院开了视频会议，意大利医生就提出一个问题说，医生在病房里要戴外科口罩还是N95口罩。
A few days ago, Italian hospitals and a hospital in Wuhan held a videoconference, Italian doctors raised the question of whether doctors should wear surgical masks or N95 masks in the wards.
你看，连这些基本的防护措施都没有明确。
You see, even these basic precautions are not clear.
而且据我所知，米兰总共开出了4家新冠定点医院，包括一家军方的，现在已经有大量医护人员被感染，这是一件很可怕的事情。
And as far as I know, Milan have opened a total of four new Crown hospitals, including one for the military, and it is a terrible thing that a large number of health care workers have been infected.
另一件事更可怕，说出来你们可能都不信。
The other thing is more terrifying, and you may not believe it.
我有一个开酒吧的朋友，也是青田同乡，他的酒吧开在米兰南部的一个小镇上，距离疫情红区大概15分钟的车程。
I have a friend who runs a bar, also from Aotian, whose bar is in a small town south of Milan, about 15 minutes' drive from the red zone.
不久前，因为疫情的关系，他向当地政府提出暂停营业的申请，但被否决了，理由是如果关店了，小镇上这些居民就没地方吃早餐了。
Not long ago, because of the outbreak, he petitioned the local government to suspend business, but was turned down on the grounds that there would be no room for breakfast in the small town if the shops were closed.
所以现在他只能每天戴着口罩，提心吊胆地开门营业。
So now he wears a mask every day and opens his doors nervously.
这和国内“坚壁清野”的隔离举措完全是两个极端。
This is the opposite of the "hard-wall" separation at home.
在这样的情况下，我认为没有一个华侨是不想回国的。
Under the circumstances, I don't think any overseas Chinese would like to return home.
别把华侨置于“不仁不义”的境地这几天，我在网上看到了很多针对海外华侨回国的言论，尤其是在8名青田籍意大利华侨被确诊为新冠肺炎以后，仿佛华侨这个群体被钉在了不仁不义的耻辱柱上。
In recent days, I have seen a lot of comments on the Internet about the return of overseas Chinese, especially after eight overseas Chinese of Qingtian nationality were diagnosed with the new crown pneumonia, as if the overseas Chinese community had been nailed to the stigma of injustice.
我想心平心和地说一些自己的看法。
I would like to say some of my own views calmly.
首先，有两个概念必须搞清楚，华侨和华裔是不一样的。
First, two concepts must be made clear: overseas Chinese are different from Chinese.
华侨是中国人，我们用的都是中华人民共和国的护照，只是因为工作或学习的缘故生活在国外。
The overseas Chinese are Chinese. We all use the passports of the People's Republic of China.
我们在国内是有户籍的，也都按照规定缴纳社保，所以并不像很多人说的那样——我们是“一群外国人占用了国内的医疗资源”。
We have a domicile in the country and all pay social security contributions according to regulations, so we are not, as many say, "a group of foreigners who take up medical resources at home."
其次，我能理解那8个青田同乡的无奈。
Secondly, I can understand the helplessness of the eight Qingtian fellow villagers.
我们看到新闻，国内派包机从伊朗撤回数百名中国同胞，所有人都在点赞，我也不例外，这当然是最好的办法。
We have seen news that domestic charter flights have been sent to withdraw hundreds of Chinese compatriots from Iran, and everyone is saying, and I am no exception, that is certainly the best way.
但10天前，那8个青田华侨有过这样的机会吗？他们也不过是想保障自己的生命安全而已。
But did the eight Qingtian overseas Chinese have such a chance 10 days ago? They just want to protect their lives.
当然，他们的做法还有值得商榷的地方，比如说在回国前是否事先告知了国内的相关部门，途中是否做好了严格的防护，回国后是否执行了相关规定。
Of course, their practice is questionable, such as whether the return of the relevant departments in advance of the domestic, whether the way has been strictly protected, whether the relevant provisions have been implemented upon return.
我不反对在这些具体问题上展开讨论，甚至是批评，但我不同意不分青红皂白就把华侨群体污名化。
I am not opposed to discussing or even criticizing these specific issues, but I do not agree with the indiscriminate stigmatization of the overseas Chinese community.
不管是浙江的10例境外输入病例，还是全国的60例，都只是海外华侨中很小的一部分。
Whether it is the 10 imported cases from Zhejiang or 60 cases from all over the country, they are only a small fraction of the overseas Chinese.
这几天，米兰的青田同乡会开始摸排情况，组建了微信群。
These days, Milan's Qingtian hometown association began mapping out the situation, the formation of micro-groups.
一个群500个人，已经组了十多个，大概6000多人。
A group of 500 people, has organized more than a dozen, about 6,000 people.
侨团的负责人在群里安抚大家，没事情就不要回去了，回去也是给国家添乱，大家都很听得进去。
Overseas group leaders in the group to pacify everyone, no matter do not go back, return is to add chaos to the country, we can listen to.
事实上也确实如此，我身边的华侨包括我在内，都还没有回国的打算。
In fact, the overseas Chinese around me, including me, have no intention of returning to China.
回去干嘛呢，一路上的感染风险不比待在这里小，回去还得先隔离14天，也不知道什么时候能再回来，这儿的生意还在呢。
The risk of infection along the way is no less than staying here. You have to be quarantined for 14 days before you know when to get back.
最近意大利政府表示要拿出50亿欧元来防疫，一个财政赤字严重的国家能有这样的表态，说明确实是下了决心。
The Italian government's recent offer of 5 billion euros for immunization is a sign that a country with a large fiscal deficit is determined.
另外，中国也陆续启动了对意大利的物资援助和技术支持。
In addition, China has started to provide material assistance and technical support to Italy.
我们相信，在团结和善意面前，疾病终将会被战胜。
We are confident that, in the face of solidarity and goodwill, disease will eventually be overcome.
（文中的陈晖为化名）毛晓琼|撰稿微信号：234379189刘冉|责编微信号：foooorest我们尊重原创版权，未经允许请勿转载。
Mao Xiaoqiong & # 124; & # 45; Writing microsignal: 2343 79189 Liu Ran & # 44; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; We respect original copyright and do not reproduce it without permission.
授权转载郑琪 微信号:1281949389商务合作上海：leslee 13916263824北京：Jessie 13911125922线索爆料、意见反馈，加入核心读者社群请扫码联系健闻君让朋友们看到你也在看↓↓↓。
Authorized reprint of Zheng Qi microsignal: 1281949389 Commercial Cooperation Shanghai: Leslee 13916263824 Beijing: Jessie 13911125922 Tells burst of material, feedback, join the core reader community, please sweep the code to let your friends see you, too.
健闻毛晓琼。
Hear Mao Xiaoqiong.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
已喜欢，对作者说句悄悄话。
Like it, whisper to the author.
发送给作者。
Send to author.
最多40字，当前共字。
Up to 40 words, currently in common.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情大爆发、开始封城的意大利，当地华侨都经历了什么？。
What happened to the local Chinese in Italy, where the outbreak and closure of the city began?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "八点健闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at eight.
var msg_title = "疫情大爆发、开始封城的意大利，当地华侨都经历了什么？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; What did the local Chinese experience in Italy, where the outbreak and closure began?;
var msg_desc = "不小心带病回国，就是“不仁不义”吗？";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
var title ="八点健闻";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; eight.
