经历两次疫情考验，这位小企业主宁追债求生也不裁员。
After two ordeals, the small business owner would rather pursue debt than lay off workers.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 财经五月花。
The following article comes in May.
Author 财经五月花。
May Flowers of Finance.
财经五月花。
May Flowers of Finance.
这是《财经》杂志“资本与金融”领域的垂直公号，聚焦前瞻、深度的金融制度与市场报道。
This is Caijing magazine "Capital and Finance" field of vertical public, focusing on the forward-looking, in-depth financial system and market reporting.
。
.
原计划春节后裁员的周永军，在发生疫情后反而改变了最初的决定。
Zhou Yongjun, who planned to lay off workers after the Spring Festival, reversed his initial decision after the outbreak.
他认为企业还具有社会属性，他将生存希望寄托于追欠款、缩库存、降损耗，以及税费减免和社保延迟缴付文 |《财经》记者 张威编辑 | 袁满这个春节，周永军终于有时间静下来读读书，学习一下管理学。
He thinks companies also have social attributes. He pins his hopes for survival on debt collection, inventory reduction, attrition, and delayed tax and social security payments.
“我希望自己能做一个真正的企业家。
"I want to be a real entrepreneur.
”但是，他心里明白，今年春节所发生的一切将使他的企业家梦不知延迟多久。
But he knew that what would happen this Spring Festival would delay his entrepreneurial dream for as long as possible.
2003年非典发生的时候，周永军身在北京，他因不适应老家的慢节奏，刚刚来到北京寻求发展。
When SARS happened in 2003, Zhou Yongjun was in Beijing, where he had just come to seek development because he could not adapt to the slow pace of his hometown.
那一年非典的经历，让他在今年新型冠状病毒肺炎面前显得颇为淡定。
That year's SARS experience, let him in this year's new coronavirus pneumonia in the face of quite calm.
“我想现在不能冒进，因为有太多的不确定性影响我们。
"I don't think we can take the plunge right now because there's so much uncertainty affecting us.
”作为制造业上游厂商，周永军将自己定位为初创企业主。
As an upstream manufacturer, Zhou Yongjun positioned himself as a start-up entrepreneur.
据周永军介绍，目前，他旗下拥有两个业务公司，一块是幼儿编程教育，一块是自动化，加起来雇员不过50人的规模。
At present, Mr. Zhou says, he owns two business companies, one for early childhood programming and one for automation, which adds up to 50 employees.
相比很多小企业主的“假期”焦虑，周永军在去年做对了一件事。
Compared to the "holiday" anxiety of many small business owners, Zhou Yongjun did the right thing last year.
他告诉《财经》记者，强比大更重要，如果我们去年没将收款作为第一重心，我们现在会更加难受。
'Better than big, 'he told Caijing.' If we didn't make collecting our top priority last year, we'd be worse off now.
尽管先知先觉，但这也只是将焦虑的时间点稍作延后。
Despite foreknowledge, this is only a slight delay in the timing of the anxiety.
周永军坦言，他目前能够维持公司开支的资金只有三个月，虽然相比目前很多企业声称维持一个月显得富足，但是如果疫情持续蔓延，未来建立消费信心将花费更长的时间，这点“储备”也显得杯水车薪。
Zhou admits he has only three months to pay for his company's expenses, and that while many companies now claim to be rich for a month, building consumer confidence in the future will take longer if the epidemic continues, and the "reserves" are woefully inadequate.
“试着想想，如果一个家庭3-4个月没收入，有多少可以顶得住。
"Try to figure out how much a family can stand if it has no income for three to four months.
”周永军反问。
"Zhou Yongjun asked.
和许多受疫情影响计划裁员的企业主不同，早在年前就计划年后裁员的周永军，在发生疫情之后，反而改变了最初的决定，“原来的想法是自己赚钱，实际上根本不是那么回事，企业本来就有社会属性。
Unlike many business owners affected by the epidemic who planned to lay off workers as early as a year ago, Zhou Yongjun changed his initial decision after the outbreak. "The original idea was to make money, which is not the case at all.
”“这个时候不续签，他们也不好找工作。
"They're not going to get a job without renewing it at this point.
”周永军依然将希望寄托在还未追回的款项，如果欠款都能回收，他的公司存活一年是没有问题的，但他说这条路很难。
Mr Zhou still pins his hopes on money that has not yet been recovered and that his company can survive for a year if arrears are collected, but says the road is difficult.
在这次疫情面前，还有多有少个创业者的企业家梦想被延迟实现，目前无法统计，周永军的遭遇应当只是冰山一角。
In the face of the epidemic, how many entrepreneurs dream of delayed realization, the current statistics, Zhou Yongjun's experience should be just the tip of the iceberg.
然而在疫情之下，反而主动放弃裁员计划的企业主并不多见。
In the face of the epidemic, however, few entrepreneurs have voluntarily given up on layoff plans.
周永军告诉《财经》记者，如果说还有期望的话，希望国家可以暂缓两年实行全额社保缴纳，目前这一块是小企业非常高昂的成本。
Zhou Yongjun told Caijing that if there were any expectations, the country could suspend full social security payments for two years, which is a very high cost for small businesses.
虽然各行业企业规模不一，但雇员数十人的生产服务型企业基本可归入小微范围。
Although the size of enterprises varies from industry to industry, production service enterprises with dozens of employees can basically be classified as micro-enterprises.
根据国家统计局数据，到2018年末全国共有中小微企业法人单位1807万家，其中小型企业239.2万家，微型企业1543.9万家，共吸纳就业2.33亿，占全部就业人口的80%左右。
According to the National Bureau of Statistics, by the end of 2018, there were 18.07 million MSMEs in China, of which 2.392 million were small enterprises and 15.439 million were micro-enterprises.
先知先觉，延后的焦虑《财经》：什么原因促使你在去年将收款放在第一位?周永军：是产品运营周期。
Caijing: What made you put collecting money first last year? Zhou Yongjun: It's the product cycle.
因为公司持续有新产品研发投入，资金比较紧张，而收益都在未来，如果不及时将旧的货款收上来，新产品研发就有可能倒在路上。
Because the company continues to have new product research and development investment, capital is relatively tight, and the earnings are in the future, if the old money is not collected in time, new product development may fall on the road.
去年，我们做的最正确的事情就是将收款放在第一位，业务放在第二位。
The best thing we did last year was to put receipts first and business second.
而且，在行业里我们有技术，还属于上游厂家，平心而论，机械制造厂就更难了。
Moreover, we have technology in the industry, and belong to the upstream manufacturers, to be sure, machinery manufacturers are even more difficult.
《财经》：目前来看，公司受疫情影响到什么程度？周永军：我们公司有两块业务，一块是幼儿编程教育，包括教培和产品研发，产品开发暂时不受影响，但培训学校影响比较大，估计疫情结束要一段时间才能建立消费信心；另一块业务是自动化方面，是立体车库电控系统核心产品研发销售，其中人机界面是国内较大的厂商，这块影响最大。
How much is the company affected by the epidemic? Zhou Yongjun: Our company has two business, one is early childhood programming education, including teaching and product development, product development is not affected temporarily, but training schools have more impact, the end of the epidemic is estimated to take some time to build consumer confidence; automated, three-dimensional garage electronic control system core products R & D sales, human-machine interface is the largest domestic manufacturers.
因为我们属于全国性业务，受到疫情影响，所有业务全停，预计疫情结束除武汉也要一个月左右，但消费信心的建立至少需要3个月时间，就好比发动机熄火，再启动是需要时间的。
Because we are a national business, affected by the epidemic, all operations have stopped, the end of the epidemic is expected to take about a month in Wuhan, but consumer confidence-building takes at least three months, like engine shutdown, and it takes time to start again.
本来今年企业的目标是能上个台阶，现在看来，肯定是泡汤了。
This year, the enterprise's goal is to be able to go up to the next level, now, it must be a dead end.
从目前的现状来看，现在经济最少影响4个月才能走向正轨，这还是理想的。
As things stand now, it is ideal that the economy should now take at least four months to get back on track.
试着想想，如果一个家庭3-4个月没收入，有多少可以顶得住。
Try to figure out how much a family can stand if it has no income for three to four months.
《财经》：对你们的资金周转有多大的影响？周永军：至少需要4个月的时间，业务才有可能形成稳定的资金来源，而这之间的支出是刚性的，相当于不进只出。
How much impact does Caijing have on your liquidity? Zhou Yongjun: It will take at least four months for the business to form a stable source of funding, and the expenditures between them are rigid and equivalent to no more than one out of the country.
像我们这样的小微企业至少需要四个月现金储备，客观来讲，因为2019年经济下行，小企业都不太好，受疫情影响几个月肯定会更艰难。
Micro and small businesses like ours need at least four months of cash reserves, and objectively, given the economic downturn in 2019, small businesses are not doing well and the months affected by the epidemic are bound to be even more difficult.
现在国内能储备3个月开支资金的企业不是很多，大都几乎都在维持。
There are not many companies in China that can save up to three months of spending, and most of them are maintaining it.
如果我们去年没有将收款作为第一大事，如今也是扛不住了。
If we had not made collecting money the number one priority last year, we would not have been able to carry it.
《财经》：你们有银行贷款么？周永军：有，不过比较少，教育板块加大研发的时候需要钱，贷款了100万，不过，我们的贷款属于信用贷款，没有抵押，先还再贷，所以银行贷款这一块还好。
Zhou Yongjun: Yes, but to a lesser extent, the education sector needs money for more research and development and has a million dollars in loans.However, our loans are credit loans, unsecured and reloaned first, so bank loans are fine.
我们好在没有应付，不欠供应商的资金，都是应收款项。
We are not payable, do not owe the supplier's funds, are receivables.
《财经》：看得出来，你寄希望于收回应收款项，这条路行得通吗？周永军：只能加大收款力度，实在不行通过法律途径，如果走起诉路径，坏账肯定是会有的。
Caijing: I can see that you are looking forward to the recovery of your receivable.Zhou Yongjun: You can only increase your collection efforts, not through legal channels, if you take the prosecution route, bad debts will certainly exist.
先活下来再说，控制费用，可花可不花的不花。
To live first is to keep costs under control, but they don't cost much.
在理想的情况下，如果外边欠的货款都收回，公司存活一年是没有任何压力的，但那是不可能的。
Ideally, the company would not be under any pressure to survive for a year if all the money owed to it was collected, but that would be impossible.
《财经》：为什么这么笃定？周永军：现在国内信用太差，我们货款回收比较不好，否则我们公司发展肯定会很好。
Caijing: Why are you so sure? Zhou Yongjun: Now the domestic credit is so bad, our payment is less good, otherwise our company will certainly develop well.
其实，我也知道，我的客户一年业务规模几个亿，利润也不一定有100万，去年年底有的客户一分货款没付，正常情况过年多少也要付一些的。
In fact, I also know that my customers a few hundred million dollars a year business, not necessarily a million profits, at the end of last year some customers did not pay a penny, the normal situation over the New Year will have to pay some.
所以，尽管我们真的有点难，我知道我们还算好的，毕竟是有核心技术的，据说我们行业盈利不到5%，立体车库曾经也是朝阳行业，可想已经不朝阳了。
So, even though we were really a bit hard, I knew we were good. After all, there are core technologies. It is said that our industry is less than 5% profitable.
我们的客户都是立体车库制造企业，我们为他们（客户）提供人机界面，远程IO，控制系统等产品。
Our customers are three-dimensional garage manufacturers, we provide them (customers) with man-machine interface, remote IO, control systems and other products.
欠款都是客户的货款，目前已经有近20%是坏账了。
Arrears are customers' loans, and nearly 20% are now bad debts.
其实，强收是一把双刃剑，未来肯定不能合作了，但国内都是这种情况，能拖就托。
In fact, forced collection is a double-edged sword, the future is certainly not able to cooperate, but this situation is domestic, can be postponed.
《财经》：是真没钱，还是故意托？周永军：立体车库专业的上游厂家是房地产商，国家调控之后，整体产业链经济都有受到影响。
Caijing: Is there really no money, or deliberately entrusted to? Zhou Yongjun: the professional stereo garage upstream manufacturers are real estate, after the state regulation, the whole industrial chain economy has been affected.
有的企业是真的没钱，有的企业是有钱是真的不给。
Some enterprises are really no money, some enterprises are rich is really not given.
年前一个客户非要抵一辆车给我，理由是不要车不给付款，我没要，确实感觉太欺负人了，过完年直接起诉他。
Some years ago a customer insisted on a car for me, the reason is not to pay for the car, I did not take, really feel too bully, after the end of the year directly charged him.
裁员计划因疫情反转《财经》：目前，你们企业最大的支出费用是哪一块？周永军：人工费用，一分钱也不能少，经济好的时候涨了工资，经济不好的时候不能调降。
Caijing: At present, what's the biggest expense of your companyZhou Yongjun: We can't spend less on labor, we can't pay less in good times, we can't cut back in bad times.
我可以给你算一笔账，我的两块业务，其中自动化这边人工费用支出是32万/月，另一块教育业务人工费用支出也得20万左右/月，全年来看，总体人工费用支出在600万的样子。
I can give you an account of two of my businesses, where the labor cost of automation is 320,000 per month, and the labor cost of another education business is about 200,000 per month.
而且，目前公司处于高投入阶段，本来计划春节后增加市场销售人员拓展市场，现在看没戏了。
Moreover, the company is now in a high investment phase, had planned to increase the market after the Spring Festival sales staff to expand the market, now see no play.
《财经》：受疫情影响，很多企业都声称要裁员，你有计划吗？周永军：个别会有的，也不全是因为疫情。
Caijing: Due to the epidemic, many companies are claiming to lay off workers. Do you have any plans? Zhou Yongjun: Some of them will have them, not all because of the epidemic.
按照我原来的计划，过完年之后有几个就不续签了，但这时候不好，等过了疫情再说。
According to my original plan, there will be a few non-renewal after the end of the year, but this is not good, until after the epidemic.
这个时候不续签，他们很难找到工作，现在的想法是大家一起扛了，能不裁就不裁。
At this time do not renew, they find it difficult to find a job, now the idea is to carry together, can not be cut.
原来的想法是自己能够赚钱，现在来看，实际上根本就不是那么回事，企业本来就是社会的，具有社会属性。
The original idea is to be able to make money, in fact, that is not the case at all, enterprises are inherently social, with social attributes.
很多人建议我裁员，我心太软。
A lot of people have suggested I cut jobs. My heart is too soft.
我们单位员工离开单位肯定找不到这样的工作了。
Our unit employee leaves the unit certainly can not find such kind of work.
所以，就抱团取暖吧。
So stick to your regiment and warm yourself.
现在劳动密集型，缺少技术含量的企业最难过，特别是一些小微企业很难从银行贷到款。
Companies that are labour-intensive and lack skills are the most distressed, especially when it is difficult for micro and small businesses to borrow from banks.
《财经》：业务正常运行的时候，税务压力大吗？周永军：我们属于一般纳税人，卖产品要交13%增值税，比如我们买进100块原材料，加工成一个产品，销售价500，按照各一半（硬件不退税、软件退税）来看，需要交的增值税（250-100）/1.13×0.13=17.2；软件部分按3%，其余退税250/1.13×0.3=6.63元，合计加上附加税增值税10%为（17.2+6.63）×110%=26.21；感觉利润有400-26.21=372.5，比如我们人工费等要400，实际就是企业亏损26.21元，各家情况不一样，其中硬件部分税国家是不给退的。
Zhou Yongjun: We belong to the general taxpayer and pay 13% VAT on our products. For example, we buy 100 raw materials and process them into a product with a sales price of 500.20.
所以，很多小企业，特别是人工密集型的小企业会希望人工费可以作为一部分抵扣税。
So many small businesses, especially those that are labor intensive, want labor costs to be part of the tax credit.
《财经》：之前有享受国家政策红利吗？周永军：我们是接受过国家政策红利的小企业，比如退税、房租减免等，如果不退确实难做，比如产品中软件部分不退税，成本太高难以维持。
Zhou Yongjun: We are small businesses that have received state policy dividends, such as tax rebates, rent rebates, etc., which are really difficult to do if we don't refund them, such as the nonrefundable portion of the software in the product, which is too expensive to maintain.
作为名副其实的小微企业主，我想说，小微企业最需要的是公平，如果政策红利一视同仁或者谁都不给，相信会有一批僵尸企业退出，也有利于良性竞争。
As a veritable micro-entrepreneur, I would like to say that what MSMEs need most is fairness, and if the policy dividend is not paid equally or given to anyone, the belief is that there will be a wave of zombie enterprises exiting, which is also conducive to healthy competition.
其实，国家并不容易，对于企业而言，有时候给点政策也就是零头。
In fact, the country is not easy, for enterprises, sometimes a point of policy is also small.
我个人认为商业还是需要用市场的规则来办，才有利于形成更好的良性循环。
Personally, I think businesses still need to use the rules of the market to help form a better virtuous circle.
现在各企业都在喊减免税费，如果能够减免租金、税费固然好，不过，从我们行业来看，业务停滞是没有税务的，而各种社保和公积金却是我们非常高昂的成本。
Businesses are now clamoring for tax breaks, and while it would be nice to be able to reduce rents and taxes, in our industry there is no tax on business stagnation, and social security and provident funds are very high costs.
如果业务一直停滞，期望国家可以暂缓两年再实行全额社保缴纳，否则会有很多企业裁员。
If business stagnates, expect the state to hold off on full Social Security payments for two years, or many businesses will lay off workers.
《财经》：作为小型企业主的典型代表，在这个时期，你有哪些建议供同行参考？周永军：我相信，在艰难时期，选择不裁员的企业主会很多。
Caijing: As a typical representative of small business owners, what suggestions do you have for your peers in this period? Zhou Yongjun: I believe that in tough times, there will be a lot of entrepreneurs who choose not to lay off workers.
那么，从我所在的行业来看，在不能裁员、不能招人的情况下，公司需要做好内部结构优化，压缩库存，降低损耗。
So, from my industry point of view, can not lay off workers, cannot hire people, the company needs to do a good job of internal structure optimization, inventory compression, reduce losses.
同时，提高人效，降低管理成本，使员工和企业形成命运共同体，在保证品质的前提下，通过各种手段降低成本，比如优化设计。
At the same time, improve efficiency, reduce management costs, so that staff and enterprises form a destiny community, in the premise of quality assurance, cost reduction through various means, such as optimization design.
我是理工男，在疫情之下让我有时间深入思考了另一个问题，有人说我是个好老板，但是我认为自己并不是一个出色的管理者，一个企业要发展，好的管理机制非常重要，而我们公司基本靠自觉。
I am a SEM, I have time to think about another issue under the epidemic, some people say I am a good boss, but I do not think I am a good manager, a good management mechanism is very important for a company to develop, and our company is basically self-conscious.
其实，全国像我们这种类型的小型企业非常多，很多公司业务都处在高投入阶段，我想，在疫情期间，情绪焦虑难免，不过，还是应该在现有的情况下做一点有意义的事情。
In fact, there are a lot of small businesses of our type in China, and many companies are in the high input stage. I think it is hard to avoid emotional anxiety during the epidemic, but it is worth doing something meaningful in the present situation.
读几本管理类的书籍也是不错的。
It's also good to read a few books on management.
相关信息：日前，恒大研究院发文指出，疫情将打断中国经济2019年底的弱企稳，在经济下行压力较大背景下，破6是大概率事件，一季度可能破5。
A letter from the Hang Seng University Institute said yesterday that the outbreak will disrupt the weak stability of the Chinese economy by the end of 2019.
其中，对中观行业冲击最大的行业包括：餐饮、旅游、电影、交运、教育培训；对微观个体的影响则体现为：民企、小微企业、弹性薪酬制员工、农民工等受损程度更大。
Among them, the industries that hit the middle industry the most are: catering, tourism, film, delivery, education and training; the impact on micro-individuals is reflected in: private enterprises, micro and small enterprises, flexible remuneration system employees, migrant workers, and so on.
在政策建议上，恒大研究院着重提出，适当减免一季度受疫情影响严重的部门尤其是交运（民航、公路客运、水路客运和出租汽车）、旅游、餐饮、住宿等行业的增值税，亏损金额抵减盈利月份的金额以降低所得税。
In terms of policy recommendations, the Hang Seng University Institute highlighted the need for appropriate relief for sectors severely affected by the epidemic in the first quarter, in particular VAT on deliveries (civil aviation, road passenger transport, passenger and taxi transport), tourism, catering and accommodation, with the loss being reduced by the amount of the profit month to reduce income tax.
同时，进一步降低社保缴费率，养老、医疗缴费率可分别降低1和2个百分点，降低企业负担。
At the same time, the rate of social security contributions can be further reduced by 1 and 2 percentage points, respectively, reducing the burden on enterprises.
新型冠状病毒疫情系列报道▷ 点击图片查看责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
A new coronavirus series of reports Please click on picture to see Invest & # 44; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
经历两次疫情考验，这位小企业主宁追债求生也不裁员。
After two ordeals, the small business owner would rather pursue debt than lay off workers.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "经历两次疫情考验，这位小企业主宁追债求生也不裁员";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "原计划春节后裁员的周永军，在发生疫情后反而改变了最初的决定。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Zhou Yongjun, who planned to lay off workers after the Spring Festival, reversed his initial decision after the outbreak.
他认为企业还具有社会属性，他将生存希望寄托于追欠款、缩库存、降损耗，以及税费减免和社保延迟缴付";。
He says companies also have social attributes, and he pins his hopes for survival on debt collection, inventory reduction, attrition, and late-payment and social-security benefits.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
