武汉女人关秀丽扛起的三十天。
Wuhan woman Guan XiuLi shouldered the 30 days.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
那时候，关秀丽在人群里每走一步，都有十个以上的人喊她，盯着她：「救我」。
At that time, Guan Xiuli in the crowd every step, more than 10 people called her, staring at her: "Save me."
她不知道拿什么救，只能说，「等一下」，这是她最不愿意说、但说得最多的一句话。
She did not know what to save, but said, "Wait a minute." That was the last thing she wanted to say, but the most.
那是生与死的交界处。
It is the boundary between life and death.
关秀丽知道，她有可能在裁决生死。
Guan knows that she may be judging life and death.
让谁进门、让谁吃饭，让谁活下去，是每一个医护都要面临的拷问和抉择。
Who to enter, who to eat, and who to live are the questions and choices that every doctor must face.
她只能做到相对公平，测氧饱和度、看心电监护，把稀缺的资源给到最需要的病人，这些病人，往往也是病情最重、难以挽回的人。
She can only be relatively fair, measuring oxygen saturation, watching electrocardiograms, and directing scarce resources to the neediest patients, who are often the most ill and irreparable.
这是《人物》3月刊封面《武汉医生》的第一篇报道。
This is the first story on the cover of the March issue of People's Daily.
文｜罗婷编辑｜槐杨摄影｜尹夕远坏消息警报声是一点点清晰起来的。
less + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less + less than + less + locust +
最初只是听到了一个词，白肺。
At first I heard only one word, white lung.
一两个零星的病例，互不关联，似乎说明不了什么问题。
One or two sporadic cases, disconnected from each other, do not seem to speak for themselves.
2019年12月下旬，武汉红十字会医院急诊科护士长关秀丽依然在筹划自己的新年旅行。
In late December 2019, Wuhan Red Cross Hospital Emergency Department head nurse Guan Xiuli is still planning his New Year's trip.
红会医院位于汉口的香港路上，离汉口火车站2公里，离华南海鲜市场也是2公里，还是120、110定点医院，三教九流聚集之地。
The Red Cross Hospital is located in Hankou on Hong Kong Road, 2 kilometers from Hankou Railway Station, 2 kilometers from the South China Seafood Market, or 120 and 110 designated hospitals.
正因为这样，急诊科医护们各个身经百战。
As a result, emergency medical staff have gone through many battles.
他们接过枪伤的、刀伤的、车祸的、心梗的甚至被雷劈中的病人，遇到过急诊室劫持事件，常年与流浪汉打交道，冬春季节接诊很多呼吸道患者，夏秋季节则收到更多不爱喝水的结石病人。
They received gunshot wounds, stab wounds, car accidents, heart attacks and even lightning strikes, emergency room hijackings, years of dealing with vagrants, winter and spring seasons with many respiratory patients, summer and autumn more people who do not like to drink stone.
关秀丽今年41岁，工龄22年，是这个科室里最资深的员工之一。
Ms. Guan, 41, with 22 years of service, is one of the most senior employees in the department.
她个头挺高，马尾扎得紧紧的，说话爽利，带点黄陂口音。
She was tall, her horse's tail was tight, her speech was crisp and her water pi accent was a little yellow.
每天早晨7点离开家，走15分钟到医院，穿过门诊长长的走廊，道路尽头就是急诊科。
Leave home at 7 a.m. each morning, walk 15 minutes to the hospital, walk through the long corridors of the clinic, and the emergency department is at the end of the road.
12张床，28位同事，急救室门上绿色的大字，留观室里天蓝色的帘子，是她18岁之后最熟悉的世界。
Twelve beds, twenty-eight colleagues, the large green lettering on the door of the emergency room and the sky-blue curtains of the viewing room were the most familiar to her after she was 18.
按照计划，大年初一值完最后一个班，关秀丽和丈夫、儿子将飞到新加坡过新年，这也是她第一次出国，儿子马上就要上初三，她想抓住最后的机会，给孩子一个轻松的假期，也很早就从医院拿回了上交的护照，看起了机票。
Guan and her husband and son will fly to Singapore for the New Year. This is her first time abroad. Her son will be on the third day of junior high school.
侄子在新加坡工作，会为他们安排好旅程的一切。
Nephew works in Singapore and arranges everything for their journey.
但很快，第一声警报响起。
But soon the first alarm sounded.
12月30日夜里，红会医院神经内科的医生刘文在科室群里发了两条信息：「刚刚二医院后湖院区确诊一例冠状感染性病毒肺炎，也许华南周边会隔离。
On the night of December 30, Liu Wen, a physician in the neurology department of the Red Cross Hospital, sent two messages to the group: "A case of coronary pneumonia has just been confirmed in the Houhu courtyard of Hospital No. 2.
洗手！口罩！手套！」、「SARS已基本确定，护士妹妹们别出去晃了」。
Wash hands! Mask! Gloves! "," SARS is almost certain, nurses and sisters do not go out to shake. "
截图很快被传了出去。
The screenshot was quickly circulated.
看到刘文微信截图的第一刻，关秀丽就知道，这大概率是真的。
See Liu Wen micro-letter screenshot of the first moment, Guan Xiuli knew that the probability is true.
她熟悉这位同事——刘文为人低调，极少发言，几乎没在医院大群里说过一句话，但相当老实靠谱。
She knew her colleague, Liu Wen, who kept a low profile, spoke very little and hardly spoke a word in a hospital crowd, but was fairly honest.
第二天，关秀丽就让急诊科所有人戴了双层口罩。
The next day, Kwan asked everyone in the emergency department to wear a double mask.
她知道，新加坡，去不成了。
She knows Singapore can't go.
之后的日子里，警报声越来越刺耳。
In the days that followed, the sirens became harsher and harsher.
关秀丽记得，那神秘的白肺，「过了两天，我们这儿也有了，再过两天，哎呀，怎么又有了。
Guan Xiuli remembers the mysterious white lung, "After two days, we have here, another two days, alas, how again.
再过两天，我们自己的医务人员也感染了。
Two days from now, our own medical staff is infected.
」急诊科从以前的每天不到一百个号，到一天两三百，全是看同一种病。
From less than a hundred a day to two or three hundred a day, the emergency department saw the same malady.
最开始还按照华南海鲜市场接触史排查，后来发现根本不对，有的人没有接触史，一样病情很重。
In the beginning also according to the South China seafood market contact history check, later discovered that is not true, some people do not have access to history, the same condition is very serious.
还有的人本来跟海鲜市场有关系，怕受歧视，会隐瞒病史。
Others, who have ties to seafood markets, fear discrimination and hide their medical histories.
偶尔有病人看别的病，妇科的、儿科的、外伤的……她尽量暗示别人：「你坐外面去吧，外面空气好一点。
Occasionally a patient sees something else, gynecological, pediatric, traumatic... She tries to hint at others: "You sit outside, the air is better."
」有的病人听说了一点消息，愿意出去，有的不愿意：「外面冷，里面暖和。
"Some patients are willing to go out when they hear something, and others are unwilling:" It's cold outside, it's warm inside.
」她只能打开窗户通风，并给病人们发了外科口罩。
"All she could do was open the windows and give the patients surgical masks.
她爷爷、她父亲和她，是三代党员，她相信官方通报的人不传人，但现实又指向了完全相反的方向。
Her grandfather, her father and she were three generations old, and she believed that the people officially notified were not passing on, but the reality pointed in the opposite direction.
没过几天，1月13日，急诊科的两位护士确认感染。
A few days later, on January 13, two emergency nurses confirmed the infection.
关秀丽从医院物资科抢来了N95口罩，让护士们都戴上，还有帽子。
Guan Xiuli snatched the N95 mask from the hospital's supplies department and asked the nurses to wear it and their hats.
但穿的还是白大褂，有防护服，不能穿，她们收到指令，「不要引起恐慌」。
But wearing white coats, protective clothing, can not wear, they received instructions, "do not cause panic."
1月17号下了班，她没回家，去了其他医院。
She left work on January 17th, and instead of going home, she went to other hospitals.
没有坐公交车也没有骑共享单车，怕车把手不干净，她走路，走到两站地外的武汉中心医院后湖院区，又去了湖北省新华医院、武汉市第六医院。
She walked to the backlake courtyard of Wuhan Central Hospital two stops away and went to Xinhua Hospital in Hubei Province and Wuhan Sixth Hospital.
各个医院的门诊大厅里，医护们已经全副武装。
In the out-patient halls of hospitals, doctors and nurses are fully armed.
她拍下照片，发给领导，没回复，又打过去电话，对方说：「你们自己看着办。
She took a picture, sent it to the leader, did not reply, then called back and said, "Do as you please."
」看着办，那就是可以了。
"Just do it yourself, and that's fine.
她立刻通知护士们戴上面屏，穿上隔离衣。
She immediately told the nurses to put on the screen and the paraphernalia.
那时，红会医院门诊的病人已经占据了整条走道，排得很长很长。
By that time, patients at the ICRC hospital clinic had occupied the entire corridor, lined up for a long, long time.
1月18号小年夜，本是关家吃团年饭的日子。
January 18 small, originally closed the family eat reunion dinner day.
关家都在医疗系统工作，爸爸是军医，妈妈是护士，大姐在武汉市第八医院做医生，二姐在社区卫生站，哥哥在黄陂区第一人民医院，全家都在一线。
My father is a military doctor, my mother is a nurse, my elder sister is a doctor at Wuhan Eighth Hospital, my second sister is at the Community Health Station, and my brother is at the First People's Hospital of Huangpi District.
他们没有明说，但都知道有问题，互相提醒注意防护。
They didn't say it explicitly, but they both knew there was a problem and warned each other about protection.
哥哥姐姐跟大家商量，团年饭不吃了。
Brother sister and everybody discuss, do not eat reunion dinner.
全家都同意。
The whole family agreed.
这顿饭在餐馆里交了押金，钱也不要了。
The meal was paid in the restaurant with a deposit and no money.
后来发生的事情证明这是一个再正确不过的决定——关秀丽的大姐，武汉第八医院的内科主任，在出诊时被感染，居家隔离后恢复，继续上岗。
It turned out to be a perfectly correct decision - Guan XiuLi's eldest sister, the director of Wuhan's eighth hospital, was infected while on a home visit, recovered from isolation and went on duty.
那是武汉封城前发生的事情。
It happened in front of the city of Wuhan.
1月中旬，红会医院已经有规定，病人一旦发热，只能送到呼吸科。
By mid-January, the ICRC hospital had ordered patients to be sent to the respiratory unit if they developed fever.
但还是有病人被漏掉，去其他科室就诊，肿瘤科和内分泌科是重灾区。
However, patients are still missing out on other departments, oncology and endocrinology is a serious disaster area.
1月20号，钟南山在电视上第一次说可以人传人、有17位医护人员感染时，红会医院已经有医护确认感染。
On January 20, Zhong Nan Shan first said on television that human-to-human transmission, 17 health care workers infected, the Red Cross Hospital has confirmed the infection.
关秀丽核爆现场「人传人」带来的恐慌像一颗炸弹，投入这座春节前的大城。
Guan Xiuli nuclear explosion scene "person-to-person" brought the panic like a bomb, into the Spring Festival before the big city.
指令先是秘而不宣，之后则接二连三、过于突然。
The instructions were first kept secret and then too suddenly.
钟南山上电视的第二天，1月21日，红会医院收到通知，将从第二天下午6点起成为定点发热门诊。
On January 21, the day after Zhong Nan Shan went on TV, the Red Cross Hospital was notified that it would become a sentinel fever clinic from 6 p.m. the next day.
准备时间只有24小时。
The lead time is only 24 hours.
指定了一批定点发热门诊，就意味着——武汉另外几十家医院的发热门诊都不开放了，病人将高度集中。
The designation of a number of sentinel fever clinics means - dozens of other hospitals in Wuhan are closed and patients will be highly concentrated.
一个严峻的事实是，最早一批被列为定点发热门诊的医院，如肺科医院、汉口医院、红会医院，都是二级医院，不管是人员、物资还是管理，都难以在一夜之间有序应对突然暴涨的就诊人群。
It is a stark fact that the earliest hospitals classified as sentinel fever clinics, such as the Lung Hospital, Hankou Hospital and the Red Cross Hospital, were level II hospitals that were difficult to manage overnight in an orderly manner in response to sudden surges in the number of patients.
汉口医院急诊科主任胡红平无法忘记开诊第一天他走到门诊大厅时的所见：临时改建的空旷大厅，已经挤了上千人，下不去脚。
Hankou Hospital Emergency Department Director Hu Hongping can not forget the opening day when he walked to the outpatient hall to see: the temporary renovation of the empty hall, has been crowded thousands of feet.
第一个念头是万一发生纠纷，后果不堪设想，他马上给保卫科打电话，让他们立刻派保安，但根本找不到人。
The first thought was that, in the event of a dispute with unforeseeable consequences, he immediately called the Security Section and told them to send security immediately, but no one could be found.
肺科医院发热门诊的护士长王洁记得，所有病人都陷入了恐慌，不管新冠非新冠，全部涌进门诊，造成了更严重的交叉感染。
Wang Jie, the head nurse at the pulmonary hospital's fever clinic, remembers that all patients were in a panic, with all but the new crowns flooding the clinic, causing more cross-infection.
红会医院无疑是最惨烈的医院之一，门诊开放首日门诊量1700人，最高峰时2400人，接诊量甚至达到同批医院的两倍，比协和、同济还多。
The Red Cross Hospital is undoubtedly one of the most tragic hospitals, with a first-day outpatient visit of 1,700 patients and a peak of 2,400, receiving twice as many visits as the hospitals in the same group, more than Concord and Tongji.
关秀丽和她的同事们至今也搞不清楚原因，也许是因为离华南海鲜市场最近；也许是因为他们承接了协和转来的病人；也许是因为红会医院一直以「不拒绝病人」著称，120会优先把病人送到这里；还有人认为是消息在传播时出了问题，让病人们认为红会是唯一一间开放门诊的医院。
Guan and her colleagues have not yet figured out why, perhaps because they are closest to the South China seafood market; perhaps because they have received Concorde referrals; perhaps because the Red Cross Hospital has long been known to "refuse patients," giving priority to patients; and still others believe that something has gone wrong when news spreads, leaving patients with the impression that the Red Cross is the only open-clinic hospital.
关秀丽的丈夫是湖北电视台的一位记者，他在一篇文章里记录了1月21日的红会医院：因大规模病人的涌入而上了微博热搜。
Her husband, a Hubei TV reporter, wrote in an article about the Red Cross hospital on January 21: Weibo search for a massive influx of patients.
睡在过道的、躺在走廊的、哭的、吼的、闹的、下跪的病人，情绪失控的家属们，让整个医院场面失控。
Sleeping in the hallway, crying, yelling, screeching, kneeling patients, family members out of control, let the whole hospital scene out of control.
按照诊治流程，轻症病人去看发热门诊，重症和危重症病人则送到急诊科。
According to the diagnosis and treatment process, light patients go to the fever clinic, and severe and critically ill patients are sent to the emergency department.
一两千人困在一个小院子里，要看病，要用药。
One or two thousand people were trapped in a small courtyard, where they had to be treated and medicated.
保安不在，保洁也不在。
Security's not here, and so is cleaning.
大厅没有热水，门诊没有床位。
There is no hot water in the hall and no beds.
开诊第一天，门诊部主任胡臻的口罩就差点被扯下来了，护士的防护服差点被扯破。
On the first day of treatment, the head of the clinic, Hu Zhen's mask, was nearly torn off and the nurse's protective clothing nearly ripped open.
现在的门诊台空无一物——因为东西都在那时被砸了。
The clinic is empty now because everything was smashed up at the time.
有的医生在诊室里崩溃大哭。
Some doctors burst into tears in the consultation room.
医生王钧本是骨科主任，经过紧急培训，到发热门诊上岗。
Doctor Wang Junben is orthopaedic director, after emergency training, to the fever clinic on duty.
他说，当时心里有一股强烈的感觉，觉得自己置身核爆现场：「你们如果感觉到核爆炸冲击波的力量，我们的感觉到你们的五倍到十倍，我们是承受第一波核爆的人。
"If you feel the force of a nuclear blast, we feel five to ten times as much as you do," he said. "We are the ones who suffered the first wave of nuclear explosions.
我们站在最前沿，是突击队，尖刀班。
We're on the front line. Commandos. Sharp squad.
」物资的问题首先浮现，平时运转顺畅的供应机制面对暴涨的病人，已经崩溃。
Material problems first surfaced, and normally well-functioning supply mechanisms collapsed in the face of soaring patients.
门诊医生生病，诊室缺人，胡臻给领导发微信请求增援，得到的回复是「自行调控」。
Outpatient doctors are ill, consultation rooms are short of people, Hu Zhen sent a letter to the leadership to request reinforcement, was "self-regulation."
后来她就放弃了，就那么站着，再也不求了。
Then she gave up and stood there, never asking for more.
急诊科向领导求助，收到的是两个字，「顶住」。
The Emergency Department asked the leader for help and received two words, "Stand Up."
「就像打仗一样，这里都要被敌人攻陷了，援兵还不过来，叫你顶住。
"Just as in war, this place will be conquered by the enemy, and the reinforcements will not come and hold you back.
」急诊科的两位领导性格迥异。
The two emergency department leaders have very different personalities.
副主任吕希俊皮肤白净，性格沉静温和，经常从清早忙到凌晨，是个默默做事的老好人。
The deputy director of the white-skinned, quiet and gentle character, often from early morning to early morning, is a good man doing things silently.
护士长关秀丽则是典型的武汉女人，泼辣，利落，说起话来风风火火，想成的事不管怎样都得办到，她说，「要不泼辣点，工作也难得搞」。
The head nurse Guan Xiuli is a typical Wuhan woman. She is shrewd and quick, and talks like a hot potato. Whatever she wants to do must be done, "she said.
解决后勤问题是她的责任，她用尽方法，吵、哭，甚至是「偷」。
It was her responsibility to solve her logistical problems. She fought, cried and even "stole" in every way she could.
新冠病人缺氧严重，氧气像金子一样珍贵。
The new crown patient is hypoxic and oxygen is as valuable as gold.
红会医院有个制氧中心，每天生产的氧气有限，关秀丽就去门口守着、占着，一有氧气必须优先拉到急诊科。
Red Cross Hospital has an oxygen production center, daily production of limited oxygen, Guan Xiuli to the door to guard, occupy, must be the first oxygen to pull to the emergency department.
负责这件事的同事的电话号码，她背得烂熟。
The phone number of the co-worker in charge of this matter, she knows it by heart.
管设备的、管物资的、管总务的，她和每个负责人都吵过架。
She had quarrelled with every person in charge of equipment, supplies, and general services.
疫情爆发前，她就从物资科抢了一批N95口罩；疫情爆发后，急诊科最初有两台空气消毒机，但病人太多，根本不够，管物资的同事在电话里说，「真的没有了，已经汇报了。
Before the outbreak, she grabbed a batch of N95 masks from the Materials Department. After the outbreak, the emergency department initially had two air sterilizers, but there were too many patients, not enough.
」她凶回去：「你这是什么意思啊？我现在在录音，你怎么样都给我搞一台来。
"She scolded back," What do you mean by that? I'm recording now, and you can get me one just about anything.
」最后院感部门把儿科安在墙上的那台拆下来给她。
"Finally, the hospital department removed the one that had been placed on the wall for her.
心电监护仪本来有十几台，但根本不够，下了班，她和吕希俊把放在住院部大厅里还没有分配的心电监护仪全部「偷」回急诊科，还「偷」了好些个氧枕。
After work, she and Lu "stole" all the ECG monitors that had not been distributed in the inpatient hall back to the emergency department and stolen several oxygen pillows.
病人太多了，氧气瓶再多也是有限的，氧枕好歹可以应急。
Too many patients, oxygen cylinders are limited, oxygen pillow somehow can be emergency.
护士问，这哪里来的？他俩说：「你不管，你先用。
"The nurse asked," Where did this come from? "They said," You don't care, you use it first.
」哥哥关秀文听到这些事迹，在电话那头笑了起来。
"Hearing these stories, his brother Guan Xiuwen laughed at the end of the telephone conversation.
「可以想象，有可能。
"It is conceivable, possible.
只要把东西搞走，什么手段都能使得出来，这是她做得出来的事情。
She could do anything to get rid of it, and that was all she could do.
」他也是武汉抗疫一线的医生，理解妹妹为什么会这么做。
"He is also a leading Wuhan anti-epidemic doctor, understanding why his sister did so.
她是护士长，要保护好病人，也要保护好团队，不能让他们「裸奔」。
She is the head nurse, to protect the sick, but also to protect the team, not let them "run naked."
在极端有限的条件下，门诊和急诊勉力维持，也不得不因陋就简。
Outpatient and emergency care is maintained under extremely limited conditions and has to be kept to a minimum.
传染病医院需要设置「三区两通道」，红会医院住院部改造时设置了，但门诊还没来得及做。
Infectious disease hospitals need to set up "three districts, two lanes", the hospital of the Red Cross Hospital set up when the renovation, but the clinic has not yet done.
每到饭点，门诊和急诊的医护就在污染区里用来换衣服的小房间里吃饭，脱掉隔离服的上半身，吃完再穿上。
At meal times, out-patient and emergency medical care is eaten in the dressing rooms of the contaminated area, where the upper body of the quarantine suit is removed and put on afterwards.
其实隔离服已经被污染了。
Actually, the quarantine is contaminated.
但当时，他们没有更多时间也没有更多的隔离服可以替换。
At the time, however, they did not have more time or more uniforms to replace.
房间外就是拥挤的病人，咳嗽、打喷嚏、吐痰。
Outside are crowded patients, coughing, sneezing and spitting.
大年二十九那天晚上，一切还都乱着。
On the evening of the 29th, everything was still in disorder.
医院安排酒店时，在群里接龙报科室所需房间数，关秀丽没时间看手机，没有分到房间；去领饭，早已经过了饭点，剩的饭不够急诊科吃。
When the hospital arranged the hotel, in the group to pick up the number of rooms, Guan Xiuli did not have time to see the phone, no room; to collect food, has been eaten, the leftover food is not enough for the emergency department.
关秀丽搬个板凳坐在五楼，心里绝望，哭了起来，觉得眼前无路，没有饭吃，也没地方住。
Guan Xiuli moved a bench to sit on the fifth floor, in despair, began to cry, feel no way, no food, no place to live.
靠眼泪，她最后得到了三个房间。
With tears in her eyes, she finally got three rooms.
红会医院急诊科「多么无助，多么痛苦」这30天，关秀丽说，她见过了太多可怜人。
"How helpless and miserable" was the emergency department of the Red Cross Hospital for 30 days. Guan said she had seen too many poor people.
1月23日前后，政策变化频繁，各家医院的分工还未理顺，到底哪个医院只收确诊病人，哪个医院能检测核酸，哪个医院开放门诊，病人们都在碰运气。
Around January 23, there were frequent changes in policy, and the division of labour among hospitals was not yet in order. Patients were taking their chances in which hospital would receive only confirmed patients, which hospital would be able to test for nucleic acids and which hospital would be open for outpatient care.
有的救护车拉着病人连送三家医院，都被拒绝，到了红会医院，门诊大厅满得下不去脚，但病人再不肯走，跪下哀求，说死也要死在这里。
Ambulances carrying patients to three hospitals were refused admission to the Red Cross Hospital, where the outpatient department hall was full, but the patient refused to go any further and knelt down to plead that he too would die here.
关秀丽见过许多次这样的病人。
Guan Xiuli has seen many such patients.
医护们都心软，但凡有一点空隙，也就收下了。
The doctors and nurses were soft, but whenever there was a gap, they took it.
护士陈楚楚说，「没办法，他也不晓得哪个医院有床，来你这里还不是希望这里有床，虽然我没有，但总比在路上耽误时间强。
"No way," said the nurse. "He doesn't know which hospital has a bed. You don't want a bed here yet.
去别的医院情况会比这儿好吗？大家都差不多。
Will it be better to go to another hospital? Everybody is about the same.
」轻症病人去发热门诊，有十几个诊室，队伍最长时要排一整天，有时排着排着，有人晕倒了，被拖到急诊科吸氧。
Patients with mild cases go to the fever clinic, where they have a dozen or so rooms with queues of up to a whole day, sometimes standing in line, others fainting and being dragged to the emergency department for oxygen.
看到有人因此不用排队，后面的人都跟着往下倒。
Seeing that someone didn't have to stand in line for this, the people behind them all fell down.
在那样的时刻，活下去的念头大过一切。
At a time like that, the thought of living outweighs everything else.
但是，急诊科早就没床位了。
But the emergency department was long gone.
急诊科有个留观室，只有8张床；还有个抢救室，本是5张床，最多的时候摆了50张。
The emergency department has an observation room with only eight beds and a rescue room with five beds and a maximum of 50 beds.
还不够，就加椅子，医生不坐了，把椅子全给病人。
Not enough. Just add the chair. The doctor won't sit down. Give the patient all the chairs.
最后连椅子都没了，病人就躺在站着看病的医生旁边。
Finally, the chair was gone, and the patient lay next to the doctor standing there.
有人有了经验，上120时自带躺椅。
If someone has experience, bring a deck chair with you at 120.
有人什么都没有，关秀丽找了装仪器的泡沫和纸箱子，好歹在地板上垫上一层。
Someone has nothing, Guan Xiuli found equipment foam and paper boxes, somehow put a layer on the floor.
有的病人睡在走廊里，抢救在走廊里，去世也在走廊里。
Some of the patients slept in the hallway, rescued in the corridor, and died in the corridor.
有了床位，如果还能吃上药、打上针、吸上氧，病人就会变得很安静，觉得自己还有救。
With a bed, if you can still take medicine, put a needle, suck oxygen, the patient will become very quiet, feel that he is still saved.
但这些同样是有限的。
But these, too, are limited.
急诊科最多的时候也只有三十多个氧罐，每个只能供一个人，一旦给了某个病人，不到吸完，病人是不会拿下来的。
At its peak, emergency departments have only about thirty oxygen tanks, each for one person. Once given to a patient, the patient will not take it off until he or she has finished.
那是求生的欲望。
That's the desire to survive.
其他病人只能靠医院制氧中心通过管道来供氧，氧流量只有1L每分。
Other patients can only rely on the hospital oxygen center to supply oxygen through the pipeline, oxygen flow is only 1L per minute.
但有些病情较重的病人需要高流量吸氧，至少是35L每分。
But some patients with more serious illnesses need high flow oxygen, at least 35 L per minute.
管道里稀薄的氧气根本无法缓解症状。
The thin oxygen in the pipe can't relieve the symptoms.
那时候，关秀丽在人群里每走一步，都有十个以上的人喊她，盯着她：「救我」。
At that time, Guan Xiuli in the crowd every step, more than 10 people called her, staring at her: "Save me."
她不知道拿什么救，只能说，「等一下」，这是她最不愿意说、但说得最多的一句话。
She did not know what to save, but said, "Wait a minute." That was the last thing she wanted to say, but the most.
那是生与死的交界处。
It is the boundary between life and death.
关秀丽知道，她有可能在裁决生死。
Guan knows that she may be judging life and death.
让谁进门、让谁吃饭，让谁活下去，是每一个医护都要面临的拷问和抉择。
Who to enter, who to eat, and who to live are the questions and choices that every doctor must face.
她只能做到相对公平，测氧饱和度、看心电监护，把稀缺的资源给到最需要的病人，这些病人，往往也是病情最重、难以挽回的人。
She can only be relatively fair, measuring oxygen saturation, watching electrocardiograms, and directing scarce resources to the neediest patients, who are often the most ill and irreparable.
在急诊科，生命暴露出悲怆与可怜。
In the emergency department life reveals pathos and pity.
关秀丽说，每个病人的要求都很简单，「能躺在那儿，针打完了氧吸着，有监护仪监着，就不会找你了呀。
'Every patient has a simple request. 'You can lie there,' says Ms. Guan. 'You can lie there,' she says, 'and you can't be reached for with a monitor.
有些病人病得蛮重，我们也无能为力了，但最起码你给他针打上去，氧吸上去，监护仪上上去，他觉得很安全。
Some of the patients are pretty sick, and we can't help it, but at least you give him the injection, oxygen suction, monitor up, and he feels safe.
」那段时间也许是少见的、患者全身心依赖和信任医护人员的时刻。
This may be a rare time when patients are totally dependent on and trusting their healthcare professionals.
武汉一直实行「双评议」制度，患者可以对医护人员打分和投诉，分数低了相关部门要督导，医护要反馈、写材料。
Wuhan has been implementing a "dual review" system, patients can score and complain about medical personnel, low scores to supervise the relevant departments, medical feedback, writing materials.
这时候都没了。
It's all gone by this time.
医院准备派饭，病人会主动要，有位病人说，这是他这辈子第一次主动要饭吃。
The hospital was going to serve dinner and the patient would take the initiative, said one patient. It was the first time in his life that he had offered to eat.
这些事让吕希俊落泪：「我就觉得病人是多么好啊。
These things made him cry: "I think the patient is so good."
真的，那时候病人非常宽容。
Really, patients were very tolerant at that time.
但是反过来想一想就知道，病人是多么的痛苦，多么的无助，才会这样做。
But if you think about it, you know how much pain the patient is, how helpless he is to do this.
」陈楚楚在红会医院急诊科当了10年护士，讲到成为定点发热门诊后第一次上班，眼泪开始大滴大滴往外掉。
Chen, who had been a nurse for 10 years at the emergency department of the Red Cross Hospital, talked about his first job after becoming a fixed-point fever clinic, and tears began to pour out.
那是她第一次，一个班（大概七八个小时）死了三四个病人。
It was the first time she had lost three or four patients in one class (about seven or eight hours).
门诊部主任胡臻站在门诊大厅导诊，看到半个小时里有三个病人去世。
Out-patient director Hu Zhen stood in the out-patient hall and saw three patients die in half an hour.
陈楚楚说，「这么高的死亡率，就代表我们没有足够的医护人员对他们做处理、做抢救。
"Such a high death rate means that we do not have enough medical personnel to deal with and rescue them," Chen said.
」没能救回病人，是急诊科医护们最心碎的事情。
The failure to recover the patient was the most heartbreaking thing for emergency medical staff.
平时，一个病人在心脏骤停后，要由两个医生、三个护士组成的团队一起抢救，抢救30分钟以上；如果是年轻人，胸按压至少两个小时，还要跟家属谈话，任何方法都试过还是不行的，才会宣告死亡。
Usually, after a cardiac arrest, a team of two doctors and three nurses come together to save the patient for more than 30 minutes. In the case of a young person, the chest presses for at least two hours and talks to the family.
但这一次，红会医院急诊科面对的，是28个医护，加几个其他科室来支援的人，照顾1000多个病人。
This time, however, the Emergency Department of the Red Cross Hospital was faced with 28 medical staff, supported by several other sections, caring for more than 1,000 patients.
经过一个月的奋战，今天，医护人员明白，新冠病人需要呼吸支持，最初可以用呼吸机，再不行就插管，再不行还有ECMO，但在一月的急诊科，连气管插管都没法做，气管插管需要负压病房。
Today, after a month of hard work, health-care workers understand that patients in the new crown need breathing support, first with a ventilator, no more intubation, and no more ECMO, but in the emergency department in January, even a trachea intubation could not be done and a negative pressure ward was needed for the intubation.
如果强行做插管，喷出的体液会形成飞沫传播，陪同的家属和其他轻症病人也都面临巨大的感染风险。
If forced to do so, the body fluid can form droplets to spread, and accompanying family members and other light patients are also at great risk of infection.
新冠肺炎会导致多器官衰竭，普通的抢救作用不大，但还是要做。
New crown pneumonia will lead to multiple organ failure, ordinary rescue effect is not big, but still have to do.
患者的肺已经很脆弱了，实施胸部按压时，有时嘴里会吐出血来，那是极危险的传染物。
The patient's lungs are already fragile, and when you put pressure on your chest, you sometimes spit blood out of your mouth, which is extremely dangerous.
做到这一步，一切就该停止了。
With this step, it's time to stop.
他们眼睁睁看到病人情况急转直下，在没有太多干预的状况下去世。
They watched as the patient's condition plummeted and died without much interference.
关秀丽见过一位父亲，住进了急诊科抢救室，赶女儿走，说放弃他算了，不要再治了。
Guan XiuLi met a father, was admitted to the emergency department rescue room, drove the daughter to leave, said to abandon him forget, no more treatment.
女儿进不到抢救室，站在远远一个门边，对父亲喊，「别放弃」；她还有一位朋友的朋友，在美国回不来，父亲在红会医院去世。
Without access to the emergency room, she stood at a distant door and called to her father, "Don't give up." She also had a friend of a friend who could not return to the United States and whose father died at the Red Cross hospital.
关秀丽给那位父亲送过几次饭，又在他去世后领了遗物，她看到他随身带着的，有远在美国的女儿和女儿两个宝宝的照片。
Guan Xiuli sent several meals to the father, and after his death received the relics, she saw him with him, with the daughter and daughter far in the United States two baby pictures.
最初几天，在忙乱中，有的遗体放了大半天才有人来收。
In the first few days, in the bustle, some of the remains were released for most of the day before someone came to collect them.
关秀丽给保卫科打电话，让保卫科催殡仪馆把遗体搬走，保卫科说自己也没办法。
Guan called the security section to urge the funeral home to move the body, the security section said it could not do anything.
「病人哪能受这么大的刺激呢？」，她威胁：「你再不来，我就把尸体拖在马路上摆着。
"How could a patient be so irritated?" she threatened. "If you don't show up, I'll leave the body on the road."
」——其实她做不出这样的事，但必须要这么说。
"She could not do such a thing, but it must be said.
后来殡葬车来了。
Then came the undertaker.
刚搬走，被子就被人抢过去用。
No sooner had the quilt been removed than it was taken away.
来不及忌讳了。
There's no time to taboo.
以往急诊科里病人去世，护士们会把遗体清理干净，举办一个小型的告别仪式，由殡仪馆打包。
In the past, when patients in emergency departments died, nurses cleaned up their bodies and held a small farewell ceremony, which was packed up by the funeral home.
但根据传染病防治法，殡仪馆只负责带走，新冠病人的遗体需要由医护人员消毒、打包。
However, under the Communicable Disease Prevention Act, the funeral home is only responsible for taking away the body of the new crown patients need to be disinfected and packed by medical personnel.
告别仪式也不再有了。
The farewell ceremony was over.
最初关秀丽决定独自处理遗体。
Initially Guan decided to dispose of the body alone.
护士们都太年轻，还有00后，这种事不能让她们做。
Nurses are too young to be allowed to do such a thing until they have 100 years to go.
后来因为太忙，年轻的护士们也开始独自完成这项工作。
Later, because they were too busy, the young nurses began to do the work by themselves.
在下不去脚的急诊科，关秀丽或者其他护士，搬一个屏风，把自己和遗体围起来。
In the emergency department, Guan Xiuli or other nurses, move a screen and surround themselves and their bodies.
屏风是为了给死者尊严，也是为了不吓坏其他本就在崩溃边缘的病人。
The screen was designed to give dignity to the dead and not to frighten other patients who might otherwise be on the verge of collapse.
一点一点消毒，用被单包好，包上好几层，再等待殡仪馆带来的黄色尸袋，装好，运走。
Bit by bit, wrap it in sheets, wrap it in layers, and wait for the yellow body bag that the mortuary brings with it, to be packed and taken away.
每到那时候，24小时沸腾的急诊科都会很安静。
At that point, the 24-hour emergency department will be quiet.
创伤1月底，援军到达，北京、上海等各地来支援的50多名医护被编入了红会急诊科的临时队伍。
At the end of January, reinforcements arrived, and more than 50 medical workers from Beijing, Shanghai and other places were added to the ICRC's emergency team.
此后，由于大量方舱医院和隔离酒店的开放、分区治疗的落实，到二月中旬，红会医院发热门诊一天的接诊量回落到了几十个。
Since then, thanks to the opening of a large number of squares and isolated hotels and the implementation of district treatment, the daily intake at the Red Cross Hospital Fever Clinic had fallen to dozens by mid-February.
终于，急诊科从困境中挣脱。
Finally, the emergency department broke free from the dilemma.
医院门口的小公园里，一树一树的花都开了，关秀丽拿着手机，拍下那些花，又惦记着给流浪汉送点吃的。
In the small park in front of the hospital, a tree and a tree are open. Guan Xiuli holds her cell phone, takes pictures of the flowers, and cares to bring some food to the homeless.
流浪汉声音低沉，跟她说「谢谢」。
The tramp said, in a low voice, "Thank you."
那些时刻，她感觉自己「全好了」，但又知道并不是这样。
At those moments, she felt "all right," but knew it wasn't.
有很多创伤需要去抚平。
There are many wounds to be healed.
最实在的，急诊科的19位护士有8位病倒了，她们需要时间恢复。
Indeed, eight of the 19 emergency nurses fell ill and needed time to recover.
爸妈是医生护士，哥哥姐姐都学医，从小，关秀丽就觉得学医蛮好，自己就应该做这个。
My parents are doctors and nurses, my brothers and sisters are studying medicine, Guan Xiuli thought it was good to study medicine, so I should do it myself.
中学时，她在家偷偷戴妈妈的护士帽，是时兴的燕尾帽，对着镜子照，觉得好得意，好漂亮。
When she was in high school, she secretly wore her mother's nurse's hat, a fashionable swallow-tail hat, and looked into the mirror, feeling very proud and beautiful.
18岁进了医院，没几年就拿了技术大比赛的标兵。
18-year-old into the hospital, within a few years won the big technical competition bid.
2003年SARS的时候写了请战书，但那时武汉疫情不严重，没有太多波澜，疾病好像就过去了。
SARS in 2003 when the invitation letter was written, but then Wuhan epidemic is not serious, not too much waves, the disease seems to be over.
2019年，她又被评为湖北省优秀护士。
In 2019, she was also named an excellent nurse in Hubei province.
这么些年，她觉得没有解决不了的问题，自己搞不定了还可以打电话找领导，再不行就请专家会诊，总能搞得定。
After all these years, she felt that there were no problems that she could not solve, that she could call the leader if she could, or that she could call a specialist to consult her.
她的性格也经得起急诊科的摔打，坚硬、大条，没那么敏感，没那么容易受伤。
Her personality can withstand the emergency department, hard, big, not so sensitive, not so easy to hurt.
她是家里最小的孩子，但一点也不娇贵。
She is the youngest child in the family, but she is not delicate at all.
小时候高烧39度，爸爸照样送她去上学。
When I was a child, I had a fever of 39 degrees.
哥哥说她是典型武汉女性的性格，「刀子嘴，豆腐心，是个心肠好的人。
Brother said she is a typical Wuhan female character, "knife mouth, bean curd heart, is a good-hearted people.
」结了婚，家里的事都是她做主，和很多武汉女性一样，喜欢自称「老子」。
"Married, the family matters are her master, like many Wuhan women, like to call themselves" Lao Tzu.
丈夫是一名记者，她叫他「无用书生」，换个灯泡，都是丈夫扶着梯子她上去。
Her husband is a reporter, she called him "useless scholar", change light bulb, her husband is holding ladder she go up.
在急诊科里没日没夜的那一个月，有一天晚上，关秀丽的丈夫实在担心，给她送饭，约在她住的酒店门口。
One night during the night in the emergency department, Guan's beautiful husband was so worried that he brought her food around the door of her hotel.
是她走错了路，却冲丈夫发了一通火。
It was she who went the wrong way and made a scene at her husband.
她眼睛红红的，脸上有泪痕，不住说，「太多病人了，太乱了，太累了」。
Her eyes were red and her face was streaked with tears, and she kept saying, "Too many patients, too messy, too tired."
丈夫说，结婚十几年，她几乎没有在他面前脆弱过，因为她从小的教育就是不能哭，以哭为羞。
The husband said that after more than 10 years of marriage, she had hardly ever been vulnerable to him, because she had been brought up to cry, and to cry as shame.
但那时，她忍不住了。
But then she couldn't help it.
丈夫说，很想给她一个拥抱，但只能保持一米的距离。
The husband said he wanted to give her a hug, but only about a metre away.
那种「总能搞得定」的感觉被打破了。
The sense of certainty was broken.
在急诊科22年，关秀丽早就接受了那些意料之中的死亡。
After 22 years in the emergency department, Guan had long since accepted those expected deaths.
那些注定的、无可挽回的，她会安慰自己：你尽力了。
Those destined to be irreparable, she would comfort herself: You tried your best.
但这一次的许多死亡，本不该发生，「可惜、难受、心痛」。
But many of the deaths this time should not have happened. "Pity, pain, heartache."
在医院，急诊科从不是最受重视的部门，效益也不高。
In hospitals, the emergency department has never been the most important department and the benefits have been low.
但红会医院急诊科是一个骄傲的集体，他们有着相近的价值观，希望为病人提供最需要的帮助。
But the emergency department of the Red Cross Hospital is a proud group with similar values and a desire to provide patients with the most needed help.
红会医院是120、110定点医院，110送来的，经常是乞讨的、流浪的、捡垃圾的「三无人员」。
The Red Cross Hospital is 120, 110 designated hospitals, 110 sent, often begging, vagrant, garbage collection "three no-personnel."
急诊科的医护给这些「三无人员」看病，还帮他们找家属，送给他们衣服，自费给他们买饭。
Medical staff of the Emergency Department treat the "Three Unaccompanied" patients and help them find their families, send them clothes and buy them food at their own expense.
有时候流浪汉说不想喝水，想喝可乐，他们觉得好笑，但还是会满足。
Tramps sometimes say they don't want to drink water and drink cola. They laugh, but they get satisfied.
陈楚楚说，大家的想法都是一样的，「你对病人还是要温暖一点。
Chen said clearly that everyone thought the same thing, "You should still be warm to the patient.
如果用那种很嫌弃的心态对他，觉得好烦好臭，上班不会很开心。
If use that kind of disgust mentality to him, feel very irritated and smelly, work will not be very happy.
你如果自己把心态转过来，他很可怜，给他买口吃的、买口喝的也没有什么，就几块钱、十几块钱的事，自己上班也轻松一点。
If you turn your mind around, he is very poor, to buy him stuttering, to buy a drink and nothing, just a few dollars, a dozen things, his own work easier.
」她不以忙、累为苦，经历过这次疫情，陈楚楚申请支援ICU。
"She did not have to be busy, tired, experienced the outbreak, and Chen explicitly requested support for the ICU.
目睹比往常多许多的病人故去，她伤了心，每晚靠安眠药入睡，还总是做梦，梦中是同样的内容——自己跪在地上抢救病人，她觉得好累，不断重复着抢救的动作，不断有人在喊她：护士，护士，护士。
Seeing so many more patients die than usual, she broke her heart, slept every night with sleeping pills, and always dreamed the same thing in her dreams - she knelt down to save the sick, she felt very tired, she kept repeating the act of rescue, and she was called nurse, nurse, nurse.
二月中旬以后，急诊科的工作不再像刚成为定点医院时那么疲惫，但她还是无法解脱，「可能我潜意识希望把那个人救活。
After mid-February, the emergency department was no longer as tired as it had been when she first became a designated hospital, but she still couldn't get away with it.
」还有一位护士跟关秀丽提出辞职。
"There was also a nurse who tendered her resignation.
一个很年轻的姑娘，下了班在酒店大哭了一场，给关秀丽发微信说不干了。
A very young girl, after the class in the hotel cried, for Guan XiuLi said no to the letter.
她没有见过那么多那么绝望无助的眼神。
She had not seen so many desperate and helpless eyes.
每一双眼睛都那么看着她。
Each pair of eyes looked at her like that.
「绝对不是累，是心痛，是无能为力。
"Absolutely not tired, is heartache, is powerless.
」关秀丽给她打电话，聊到凌晨两点半，算是说开了。
"Guan Xiuli telephoned her and chatted until half past two in the morning.
隔三差五，又在酒店给她们煲汤，她想，要把年轻护士的情绪照顾好。
After a while, she gave them soup at the hotel. She thought, "Take care of the mood of the young nurse."
急诊科副主任吕希俊与关秀丽同龄，也是41岁，头发已经灰白了。
Lui Sik-jun, deputy director of the emergency department, is a 41-year-old woman of the same age with grey hair.
摘下口罩，胡子也已经很长了，一直没来得及刮。
He took off his mask, and his beard was too long to shave.
他常常莫名其妙地流眼泪，说不上原因。
He often shed tears for no apparent reason.
他说第二批、第三批的定点发热门诊是幸运的，「他们没有经历过我们的创伤。
He said the second and third rounds of sentinel fever clinics were lucky, "they did not experience our trauma."
」2月17日，《人物》第一次见到关秀丽，她在红会医院的会议室里一坐下，就叹了一口气：「我的眼泪都流干了」，「没有什么煽情的东西再让我流泪，不可能了。
"On Feb. 17, when People first saw Guan Xiuli, she sat down in the conference room of the Red Cross Hospital and sighed," My tears are running dry.
」那些惨烈的场景，关秀丽再说起，语气并不惊心动魄。
"Those tragic scenes, Guan XiuLi repeated, the tone is not startling.
听来会觉得，她好像没有什么特别高尚，也没有什么特别的勇气，只是不得不去做。
It seemed to me that she had nothing particularly noble, that she had no particular courage, and that she had only to do it.
分配，决定，目睹脆弱与死亡。
Distribute, decide, witness vulnerability and death.
但也是她，和与她类似的武汉医护工作者，扛起了这漫长的30天。
But it was she, and Wuhan medical workers like her, who shouldered the long 30 days.
疫情过去后，你们想做点什么？关秀丽、吕希俊、陈楚楚……这些在这个急诊室里度过了十多年时光的人，说出来的都差不多，「就像平常那样上一天班，穿普通的白大褂，戴普通的口罩，和病人普通地交流。
What do you want to do when the epidemic is over? Guan Xiulian, Lu Xijun, Chen Dou... these people who have spent more than a decade in this emergency room are saying the same thing.
他不用担心来医院会死掉，我也可以给他提供相应的护理和治疗。
He doesn't have to worry about dying when he comes to the hospital, and I can provide him with proper care and treatment.
大家就这么平平常常地，他治好了就回家，该吃吃该喝喝。
So often, after he had healed himself, he went home to eat and drink.
我该下班就下班，我想过一天这样的生活。
I should finish work after work. I want to have a day like this.
」。
. "
人物记者。
Character journalist.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
已喜欢，对作者说句悄悄话。
Like it, whisper to the author.
发送给作者。
Send to author.
最多40字，当前共字。
Up to 40 words, currently in common.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉女人关秀丽扛起的三十天。
Wuhan woman Guan XiuLi shouldered the 30 days.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉女人关秀丽扛起的三十天";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "她用尽所有力气，给那些涌入的病人争取生机。
var msg _ desc = & quot; She did everything in her power to keep alive those who had swarmed in.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
