抗疫国际合作，习近平的“怎么做”和“为什么”。
International Cooperation Against Plague, Xi Jinping's "How to Do" and "Why".
钟三屏。
Three oclock.
中国新闻周刊                      。
China News Weekly.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
这里是《中国新闻周刊》掌门周刊君，影响有影响力的你。
This is the head of China News Weekly magazine, the influence of influential you.
和我一起拨开迷雾，追寻真相，守望时代。
Join me as we move through the fog, seek the truth and keep watch.
。
.
随着多国新冠肺炎感染者数量持续攀升，全球战疫进入关键时刻，“全球一盘棋、各国共进退”日益成为国际共识。
As the number of new cases of pneumonia in many countries continues to rise, the global epidemic has entered a critical juncture, "global chess game, the common progress and retreat of all countries" has become an international consensus.
“积极开展抗疫国际合作”“维护地区和全球公共卫生安全”，这是一个多月来，中国最高领导人习近平在带领中国全力战疫之时，与世界密集“对话”中使用的高频表述。
"Actively Carrying Out International Cooperation Against Plague" and "Safeguarding Regional and Global Public Health Security" is the high-frequency expression used by Chinese Supreme Leader Xi Jinping in his intensive "dialogue" with the world at a time when he is leading China's full-scale battle against the epidemic.
在此全球疫情告急时刻，这些表述显示出不一般的意义。
In this time of global emergency, these expressions are of extraordinary significance.
抗疫国际合作，单从短语本身看，是一个极其宏大的概念，但若回归习近平的公开表态、结合中国一系列“外向”行动，“抗疫国际合作”的内涵——怎么做、为什么——清晰具象，“器”“术”“法”“道”的中国古老智慧，成为最好的注脚。
International cooperation against the disease is an extremely ambitious concept in its own right, but a return to Xi's public pronouncements, combined with a series of Chinese "outward" operations, would be the best footnote to the old Chinese wisdom of how and why - how and why.
3月2日，上海市捐赠韩国大邱、庆北地区的50万只口罩运至首尔。
On March 2, Shanghai donated 500,000 face masks to Seoul in Daegu and Gyeongbei regions of South Korea.
“器”的层面，战疫过程中中国与世界始终在物资上互通有无。
On the level of "apparatus," China and the world have always had what they need materially in the course of the epidemic.
巴基斯坦拿出全国库存口罩给中国，蒙古国向中国捐赠3万只羊……此前中国接受了来自世界的善意与帮助，习近平多次向相关国家致谢。
Pakistan presented its national stockpile of masks to China, Mongolia donated 30,000 sheep to China... China has received goodwill and help from the world, and Xi has repeatedly thanked the countries concerned.
随着境外疫情升级，习近平越来越多提及“向其他出现疫情扩散的国家和地区提供力所能及的援助”。
As the epidemic escalates abroad, Xi is increasingly referring to "providing whatever assistance it can to other countries and regions where the epidemic is spreading."
经历过防控初始阶段的“口罩荒”“检测试剂供应不上”等困境，中国感同身受，特别了解疫情暴发国家尤其是一些卫生体系不稳固国家的“第一需求”。
Having experienced the initial stage of prevention and control, such as the "shortage of face masks" and the "unavailability of detection reagents," China shares the common understanding of the "first demand" of countries experiencing outbreaks, especially those with unstable health systems.
“投我以木桃，报之以琼瑶”，最近一段时间，中国力所能及地向巴基斯坦、日本、韩国、伊朗、非盟等国家和组织紧急捐赠医用物资。
"Give me a peach in return for Qiong Yao," and recently, China has donated medical materials to Pakistan, Japan, South Korea, Iran, AU and other countries and organizations to the best of its ability.
中国政府还向世界卫生组织捐款2000万美元，用以支持世卫组织开展抗击新冠肺炎疫情的国际合作。
The Chinese Government has also contributed US $20 million to the World Health Organization (WHO) to support WHO international cooperation in combating the outbreak of pneumonia in the New Crown.
国与国之间同舟共济，在物资上的互通有无，以及所展现的情感上的患难与共，正是危急时刻展开国际合作最朴素的一步。
International cooperation in times of crisis is the simplest step: solidarity, material exchange, and emotional solidarity.
3月2日，中共中央总书记、国家主席、中央军委主席习近平在北京考察新冠肺炎防控科研攻关工作。
On March 2, President Xi Jinping, General Secretary of the CPC Central Committee and Chairman of the CMC, visited Beijing to study the key issues in the prevention and control of Xinguan Pneumonia.
这是习近平在军事医学研究院重大疫情应急防控药物研究室了解疫苗和抗体研制情况。
This is Xi Jinping's understanding of the development of vaccines and antibodies at the Institute of Military Medicine's Major Outbreak Prevention and Control Drug Research Laboratory.
新华社记者 丁海涛 摄“术”的层面，中国从疫情暴发之初即与世界加强科研合作和数据分享。
Xinhua News Agency reporter Ding Haitao "Shu" level, China from the outbreak of the outbreak with the world to strengthen scientific cooperation and data sharing.
传染病防治是一个需要集成人类智慧合力解决的全球性难题。
The prevention and treatment of infectious diseases is a global problem that needs to be solved by integrating human wisdom.
在谈到抗疫科技合作时，习近平特别指出，要加强“同有关国家特别是疫情高发国家在溯源、药物、疫苗、检测等方面的科研合作，共享科研数据和信息，共同研究提出应对策略”。
Referring to scientific and technological cooperation in combating the epidemic, Xi stressed the need to strengthen "scientific cooperation with relevant countries, especially those with high epidemic rates, in traceability, drugs, vaccines, and testing, share scientific data and information, and jointly study and propose countermeasures."
疫情暴发以来，中国及时通报疫情信息、分享部分毒株全基因组序列、在世卫组织框架下开展技术合作、与全球分享疫情防控和诊疗方案等多份技术文件……无不体现一个负责任大国应有的态度。
Since the outbreak, China has provided timely information on the epidemic, shared partial genome sequences of virulent strains, carried out technical cooperation under the WHO framework, and shared with the world a number of technical documents on disease control and diagnosis and treatment programmes.
全球化时代，人类命运休戚相关。
In the age of globalization, human destiny is at stake.
面对疫情任何一个国家都无法独善其身，各国之间加强科研合作，科学家联手对抗疫情，不仅能加速人类战胜病毒的步伐，而且有助于构建更公开透明的环境，消除“信息疫情”，为全球联合抗疫创造清朗的舆论空间。
In the face of the epidemic, no country can isolate itself from the epidemic. Increased scientific cooperation among countries and the joint efforts of scientists to combat the disease will not only accelerate the pace of human victory over the virus, but also help create a more open and transparent environment, eliminate "information epidemic" and create a clear public space for the global fight against the disease.
当地时间3月1日，在首尔钟路区一家超市外，民众排起长队等待购买口罩。
People lined up outside a supermarket in Seoul's Zhong Lu district on March 1 to buy masks.
中新社记者 曾鼐 摄“法”的层面，在防控疫情的同时，中国亦致力于与世界各国共同构建全球公共卫生安全防控体系。
Chinese news agency reporters Zeng Nai take a "law" level, in the prevention and control of the epidemic, China is also committed to the world together to build a global public health security prevention and control system.
习近平在与多位外国领导人的“对话”中提到，中方“既对本国人民生命安全和身体健康负责，也对全球公共卫生事业尽责”。
In his "dialogues" with foreign leaders, Xi noted that China "is responsible for the lives and health of its people as well as for the cause of global public health."
观察认为，这显示中方不仅关切合力解决当下之急，更致力于促成机制化合作，推动构建全球公共卫生安全防控体系。
This shows that China is not only concerned about solving immediate problems, but also committed to promoting institutionalized cooperation and building a global public health security prevention and control system.
比如，“期待国际社会加强协调，为维护人类健康福祉而一起努力”“同相关国家密切沟通，分享防疫经验，协调防控措施”，体现了习近平对各国进一步提升政策协调“默契度”的期待。
For example, "the expectation that the international community will strengthen coordination and work together to safeguard human health and well-being" "communicate closely with relevant countries, share experience in epidemic prevention, and coordinate prevention and control measures," reflecting Xi's expectation that countries will further enhance their "tacit understanding" of policy coordination.
再如，推动建立地区之间乃至全球层面的“新契约”。
Consider, for example, the promotion of a "new compact" between regions and even at the global level.
习近平指出“加快落实中非合作论坛北京峰会‘八大行动’中的卫生健康行动，推进非洲疾控中心建设，加强中非公共卫生和疾病防控合作”，中方提出建立中国—东盟公共卫生应急联络机制……这些机制的搭建完善，将进一步为人类撑起全球公共卫生安全这把大伞。
Xi pointed out that "accelerating the implementation of the health actions in the 'Eight Major Actions' of the Beijing Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation, promoting the establishment of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Africa, and strengthening China-Africa cooperation in public health and disease prevention.
资料图：2020年2月11日，世界卫生组织牵头召开的全球研究创新论坛在日内瓦揭幕，冀望商定新冠病毒研究路线图，同日世卫组织还宣布将新冠病毒引发疾病的英文名称命名为“COVID-19”。
Figure: The World Health Organization-led Global Research Innovation Forum was launched in Geneva on 11 February 2020 with a view to agreeing on a road map for research on the new crown virus, and on the same day WHO announced the naming of the disease "COVID-19."
中新社记者 德永健 摄“我一直讲，人类是一个命运共同体。
"I have always said that humanity is a destiny community.
战胜关乎各国人民安危的疫病，团结合作是最有力的武器”——如果说前述三个层面阐明了“怎么把事做正确”，那么习近平反复强调的“人类命运共同体”，则从“道”的高度向外界解释了“什么是正确的事”。
Solidarity and cooperation are the most powerful weapons against diseases that affect the well-being of all peoples - and if the three dimensions state "how to do the right thing," Xi's oft-repeated "Community of Human Destiny" explains to the outside world "what is right" from the height of "Tao."
观察强调，这也正是此前世卫组织评价中国领导人面对大疫具有“足够领导力和政治意愿”的动力之源。
This, it was stressed, was the source of the WHO's previous assessment that China's leaders had "sufficient leadership and political will" to confront the pandemic.
不管是西方智慧“没有人是一座孤岛”，还是古代波斯名句“亚当子孙皆兄弟，兄弟犹如手足亲”，抑或是中国古语“山川异域，日月同天”，无不彰显不同文明对守望相助、命运与共的共识。
Whether the western wisdom that "no one is an island," or the ancient Persian saying that "Adam's sons are brothers, brothers are brothers," or the ancient Chinese saying "mountains and rivers, same day and night," all show the common understanding of different civilizations on mutual assistance and destiny.
分析认为，这也正是习近平“公共卫生安全是人类面临的共同挑战，需要各国携手应对”的认知基础和行动指引。
According to the analysis, this is Xi Jinping's cognitive basis and operational guidance that "public health security is a common challenge facing humanity and requires the concerted efforts of all countries."
来源：中国新闻社值班编辑：庄梦蕾。
Source: China News Agency on Duty Editor: Zhuang Menglei.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
抗疫国际合作，习近平的“怎么做”和“为什么”。
International Cooperation Against Plague, Xi Jinping's "How to Do" and "Why".
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "中国新闻周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "抗疫国际合作，习近平的“怎么做”和“为什么”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; Xi's "How to Do" and "Why";;
var title ="中国新闻周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by China News & quot;
