武汉“四类人员”集中收治第一日：“我们没有被抛弃！”_财经杂志的专栏文章_微信文章_今天看啥/* declared */。
Wuhan "four categories of personnel" concentrated on the first day of treatment: "We have not been abandoned!" _ Finance magazine column _ micro article _ What see today / * declared * /.
武汉“四类人员”集中收治第一日：“我们没有被抛弃！”_财经杂志的专栏文章_微信文章_今天看啥<br>。
Wuhan's first day of intensive care: "We weren't abandoned!" _ Financial magazine's column _ micro _ article _ What & ltd; br & gt; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot
| title       = 武汉“四类人员”集中收治第一日：“我们没有被抛弃！”_财经杂志的专栏文章_微信文章_今天看啥。
& # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
注册。
Registration.
登录。
Login.
专栏名称: 财经杂志。
Column name: Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
我也要提交微信公众号。
I would also like to submit a tweets public number.
分享。
Share.
目录。
Catalogue.
相关文章推荐。
Related articles are recommended.
神嘛事儿。
God's business.
病毒疫情是完全可控的，昨天开始看数据已经有拐 ...·。
The virus is completely controllable, yesterday began to look at the data has been crutch...
2 天前 。
Two days ago.
月风_投资笔记。
Monthly wind _ investment notes.
看了一圈微博和微信的文章，简直都是垃圾桶，一 ...·。
Watched a lap of microblogging and tweets, it was just a garbage can, one...
3 天前 。
Three days ago.
e公司官微。
e Corporate micro-management.
惹怒网友！又是红十字会，央视直播被保安切断， ...·。
Angry netizens! Again is the Red Cross, CCTV live broadcast was cut off by security,...
3 天前 。
Three days ago.
布尔费墨。
Burfemme.
每天一杯洁尔阴，抑制病毒我放心。
Every day a glass of Yin, I feel relieved to suppress the virus.
今年过节不喝 ...·。
Don't drink... for the holidays this year.
4 天前 。
Four days ago.
国资报告。
National reporting.
疫情面前大爱无价！中央企业连续推出18项免费 ...·。
In the face of the epidemic love priceless! Central enterprises launched 18 free....
4 天前 。
Four days ago.
今天看啥。
What are you looking at today.
专栏。
Columns.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
武汉“四类人员”集中收治第一日：“我们没有被抛弃！”。
Wuhan "four categories of personnel" concentrated treatment on the first day: "We have not been abandoned!"
财经杂志 ·。
Financial magazine.
公众号 ·。
Public Number.
财经。
Finance.
在医学专家们看来，集中收留、隔离是第一步。
Centralized accommodation and isolation are the first steps, according to medical experts.
接下来对疑似病患的确诊、分类诊治、收治入院，将是对医疗、物资、人员分配等多重资源配置能力的综合考验，相信各方面群策群力可以渡过难关2月3号上午8点，人们在七医院门口排队等待核酸检测。
The diagnosis, classification, treatment and admission of the suspected patients will be a comprehensive test of their ability to allocate resources in multiple ways, including medical treatment, materials and personnel distribution.
文|《财经》记者 黎诗韵 高洪浩 房宫一柳 《财经》特派武汉记者信娜 刘以秦 实习生马可欣编辑|宋玮2020年2月3日上午9时30分，陈薇收到了一条来自武汉协和医院的短信：“你于1月29日检测新型冠状病毒肺炎核酸结果如下：双阳（确诊）。
At 9: 30 a.m. on February 3, Chen Wei received a text message from Wuhan Concoronavirus Pneumonia, an intern with Wuhan Huangyue. Chen Wei-wei received a text message from Wuhan Concoronavirus Pneumonia on February 29.
”多数人收到这条短信，心情可能是崩溃的。
"Most people get this message and their mood can break down.
对于武汉那些“疑似患者”来说，这不算是一个坏消息，因为确诊意味着能住上医院了。
For Wuhan's "suspected patients," this is not bad news, because the diagnosis means access to a hospital.
他们不用再拖着疲惫的身体往返医院去打针，不用再凌晨去定点医院排队等待领核酸试纸。
They no longer have to drag their tired bodies to and fro to the hospital for needles, nor do they have to wait in line to get nucleic acid test strips in the early morning.
2月1日，《财经》记者报道中提到，在缺乏检测试剂和床位的情况下，武汉一部分发热患者、疑似患者（正在等待接受核酸检测）和部分确诊患者未能及时入院，有的出现家人交叉感染甚至病重的情况。
In the absence of detection reagents and beds, a number of fever sufferers, suspected patients (waiting for a nucleic acid test) and some diagnosed patients in Wuhan have not been hospitalized in time, and some cases of cross-infection or even serious illness have been reported, Caijing reported on February 1.
外界注意到，武汉市政府和卫健委随后采取了一系列新举措，上述问题得到很大缓解。
The outside world noted that Wuhan city government and health care committee subsequently took a series of new measures, these problems were greatly alleviated.
《财经》记者了解到，2月2日武汉新增了数家核酸试剂检测机构，分别是武汉大学人民医院、武汉市第七医院、普爱医院等。
On February 2, Wuhan added several new nucleic acid reagent testing organizations, namely Wuhan University People's Hospital, Wuhan Seventh Hospital, Pu Ei Hospital, and so on.
也是在2月2日，武汉决定征用17家第四批、10家第五批定点医院，共包含床位2183个，当日火神山医院建成并交付了1000多张床位。
Also on February 2, Wuhan decided to requisition 17 fourth-batch hospitals and 10 fifth-batch designated hospitals, containing 2,183 beds.
3日，武汉又新建位于武汉国际会展中心、洪山体育馆和武汉客厅的三处“方舱医院”，提供3400张医疗床位，主要收治新冠肺炎的轻症确诊患者。
Wuhan on the 3rd, the new Wuhan International Convention and Exhibition Center, Hongshan Stadium and Wuhan sitting room of the three "square cabin hospitals," providing 3,400 beds, mainly for patients diagnosed with mild cases of New Crown Pneumonia.
至此，武汉的床位短缺情况将有所缓解。
So far, Wuhan bed shortage will be alleviated.
2月2日，武汉市新型肺炎防控指挥部发布第十号通告，决定自通告发布之日起，对“四类人员”集中收治和隔离。
On February 2, Wuhan New Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command issued Circular No. 10, the decision from the day the notice was issued, the "four categories of personnel" concentrated treatment and isolation.
这“四类人员”分别是：确诊的新冠肺炎患者、疑似的新冠肺炎患者、无法明确排除新冠肺炎可能的发热患者、确诊患者的密切接触者。
The four groups are confirmed patients with pneumonia, suspected new crown pneumonia, febrile patients unable to definitively rule out possible new crown pneumonia, and close contacts with confirmed patients.
其中，重症的确诊患者必须送定点医院，重症的疑似患者必须入院治疗，无法进入定点医院的确诊患者、无法入院隔离的疑似患者，需征用其他医院或酒店等集中隔离收治。
Among them, patients diagnosed with severe illness must be sent to a designated hospital, severe patients must be admitted to hospital, patients who cannot be admitted to designated hospitals, suspected patients who cannot be hospitalized, need to be placed in centralized isolation such as other hospitals or hotels.
上述通告内容受到了各方面的普遍肯定。
The content of the above-mentioned circular has been generally acknowledged by all parties.
一位医疗工作者对《财经》记者说：“这是一个至关重要的举措，武汉终于做了，快落实吧！”同时，外界高度关注的武汉火神山医院已经正式启用。
A medical worker told Caijing News: "This is a vital move, Wuhan has finally done it, quickly implement it!" Meanwhile, Wuhan Huoshen Mountain Hospital has been officially opened.
据央视报道，2月4日上午首批入住了50位病人，许多患者将其视为获得救治的希望。
According to CCTV, the first group of 50 patients checked in on the morning of February 4, and many saw them as a hope of receiving treatment.
一位医护人员告诉《财经》记者，轻症还是以社区配合在家隔离为主，火神山等医院将解决部分重症病患的需求。
A medical worker told Caijing that light cases still rely on community-based home isolation, and hospitals such as Fosen Mountain will address the needs of some seriously ill patients.
2月3日，武汉新冠肺炎防控指挥部表示，正在追踪各类互联网平台法发布的本人或亲友的求助信息，目前已经跟进了135条，“病患已得到妥善安置。
On February 3, Wuhan Xinguan Pneumonia Control Command said it was tracking the help messages issued by friends and relatives on various Internet platforms.
”在接受《财经》采访的医学专家们看来，集中收留、隔离是第一步，接下来对疑似病患的确诊、分类诊治，将是对医疗、物资、人员分配等多重资源配置能力的综合考验，相信各方面群策群力可以渡过难关。
According to medical experts interviewed by Caijing, centralized shelter and isolation are the first step. The diagnosis, classification and treatment of suspected patients will be a comprehensive test of the ability to allocate resources among medical, material and personnel, believing that all can work together to tide over the difficulties.
（点击可查看大图）隔离点：接收任务重、准备尚不足一位护士解释，酒店目前只是观察隔离点，不能打针不能吃药，不能安排住院。
Isolation Points: Heavy reception tasks, not yet ready for a nurse explained that the hotel is currently only observing isolation points, can not take injections, can not take medicine, cannot arrange hospitalization.
。
.
2月2日上午，武汉市新型肺炎防控指挥部发出通知，决定对确诊、疑似等“四类人员”集中收治和隔离。
February 2 morning, Wuhan City, the new command of pneumonia control issued a notice, decided to diagnose, suspected and other "four categories of personnel" concentrated treatment and isolation.
“我们没有被抛弃！”一位患者向《财经》记者回忆看到通知时的第一感受。
"We were not abandoned!" One patient recalled to Caijing how he felt when he saw the announcement.
2月3日上午，家住武汉市硚口区某小区的居民王森，接到社区电话，通知她去酒店隔离。
February 3 morning, home in Wuhan Zhangkou District Zhangkou district resident Wang Sen, community telephone, informed her to go to the hotel isolation.
一周前她持续低烧，体温37.5℃左右，成为社区疑似新冠肺炎的重点关注对象。
A week ago she suffered from a low fever, with a body temperature of about 37.5 degrees Celsius, which has become a major concern in the community.
等王森到达时，定点隔离酒店的房间快要住满了。
By the time Wang Sen arrived, the bungalow at the Sentinel Isolation Hotel was almost full.
王森排第48位，工作人员说还剩下28个房间。
Wang ranked 48th, leaving 28 rooms, officials said.
之后15分钟里，分别有三辆警车带着社区的发热病人来到该酒店，得知酒店没房后，又匆匆离去。
Within the next 15 minutes, three police cars arrived at the hotel with febrile patients from the community, learned that the hotel was empty and then hurried away.
酒店门口的字条一目了然——「新冠肺炎隔离点」，这里将住进约140名发热病人，每人一个房间。
The note at the entrance to the hotel is very clear - the New Crown Pneumonia Isolation Point, which will house about 140 febrile patients per room.
大多数人入住时至少拎着两个包，有的还拿着盆，神情充满期盼。
Most people check in with at least two bags, some with pots and an expectant expression.
《财经》记者了解到，武汉最近两天新启用的多个隔离点里，有的目前只负责隔离，并不都是医院的对接口。
"Caijing" reporter learned that Wuhan in the last two days opened a number of new isolation points, some are currently only responsible for isolation, not all of the hospital interface.
一位现场医护人员说，两三天后，住在这里的人将统一进行核酸试剂盒检测。
In two or three days, the people living there will be testing nucleic acid kits, said a field medical worker.
结果为阴性的人可以直接离开。
Those who are negative can leave directly.
确诊的病人里，轻症会继续在酒店隔离，重症需要去医院。
Among the confirmed patients, the mild illness will continue to be isolated in the hotel, serious need to go to hospital.
但该医护人员强调：“医院得自己找，我们帮不了。
But the paramedics stressed: "The hospital has to find its own way, we can't help.
”2月2日下午5时，罗忆心中的石头终于落地。
"February 2 at 5 p.m., the heart of the stone finally fell.
他重病多日而寻医无门的哥哥，接到了社区卫生站的通知，当晚可以入住集中隔离点。
His brother, who had been ill for many days and sought medical attention, was notified by the community health post that he could be admitted to the intensive quarantine facility that night.
当晚8时，罗忆接到了社区卫生站司机的电话：“你哥哥需要离开集中隔离的酒店了。
At 8 p. m., he received a phone call from the community health station driver: "Your brother needs to leave the Centrally Isolated Hotel.
”他瞬间懵了。
He was stunned.
接着，发着超过39度的哥哥被送回家，社区卫生站给出的理由是：高烧严重，隔离点没有医生和检测设备，无法接收。
The brother, who had been sent home with more than 39 degrees, was then sent home, citing a high fever and the lack of doctors and testing equipment to receive the isolation points.
罗忆的哥哥被重新带上了车， 送到武汉市第一医院，排队做完新一轮检测，已是2月3日的凌晨。
Luo Yi's brother was taken back to the first hospital in Wuhan City, queuing up to do a new round of testing, February 3 in the early morning.
送他去医院的司机早已离去，整晚没有进食的哥哥只能步行回到居所。
The driver who took him to the hospital had already left and his brother, who had not eaten all night, had to walk home.
对于隔离点没有安排好相应的隔离措施，罗忆觉得有点遗憾。
For the isolation point did not arrange for the corresponding isolation measures, memory felt a bit sorry.
到隔离点入住的人需先量体温，重症患者可能被劝阻进入。
People arriving at the quarantine site need to have their temperature taken first and patients with severe illnesses may be discouraged from entering.
《财经》记者了解到，一位男士和罗忆哥哥的情况类似，他到隔离点时体温高于39℃，被直接劝回。
The Caijing reporter learned that a man is in a similar situation to his brother, Liu Yue, who arrived at the quarantine point with a temperature above 39 degrees Celsius and was directly persuaded to return.
一位护士解释，因为酒店目前只是观察隔离点，不能打针不能吃药。
A nurse explained that the hotel was only observing the quarantine site and could not take medication without an injection.
在集中隔离的酒店里，中央空调不能开，病患需要带好防寒的衣服。
In a centrally insulated hotel, the central air conditioner cannot be turned on and patients need to wear cold-proof clothing.
“暂时没有抢救措施，如果患者自己觉得状况很危险，真的建议不要住”。
"There is no immediate rescue measures, if the patients themselves feel very dangerous, really advised not to live."
这名护士说。
said the nurse.
2月3日，武汉中南发热门诊，患者正在等待叫号。
Feb. 3, Wuhan Central South fever clinic, the patient is waiting for a call.
家住武汉市汉阳区晴川街道某社区的温先生和家人都是疑似患者。
Mr. Wen and his family, who live in a community in Qingchuan Street, Hanyang, Wuhan, are suspected patients.
1月29日，他们一家三口曾前往武汉市第五医院做核酸试纸检测，目前仍未获结果。
On January 29, three members of their family went to Wuhan Fifth Hospital for a DNA strip test, which has yet to yield results.
新的通知要求出来后，他们被安排在汉阳区委党校进行隔离。
When the new notice was issued, they were placed in isolation at the Hanyang District Party School.
一位社区工作人员表示，选择党校大概是因为它就在汉阳医院对面。
One community worker said the party school was probably chosen because it was just opposite the Hanyang hospital.
在党校隔离点，每个人一个房间，早晚医护人员来测一次体温，饭菜送到房间。
At the Party School Isolation Point, a room for everyone, morning and night medical staff to take a temperature test, food to the room.
但隔离点目前还没有药。
But there is no medicine for the quarantine.
温先生每次用外卖平台饿了么送药，骑手将药放到门口，温先生自己去取。
Every time Mr. Wen is hungry on the takeaway platform, the rider puts the medicine in the doorway and Mr. Wen picks it up himself.
如今，他已经买了7000多块钱的药。
Now he has bought more than seven thousand dollars worth of medicine.
这里暂时也没有点滴可以打。
There's not a bit of it going on here.
温先生每次步行去医院排队，但他不喜欢去医院，怕交叉感染。
Mr. Wen goes to the hospital on foot every time, but he doesn't like to go to the hospital for fear of cross-infection.
最近几天，他感觉自己的症状越来越严重。
In recent days, he has felt his symptoms get worse.
这里暂时也没有氧气瓶。
There are no oxygen cylinders here.
温先生的妻子和妻妹出现呼吸困难的症状，他们只好带着氧气袋到房间。
Mr. Wen's wife and sister-in-law developed respiratory symptoms and had to bring oxygen bags to the room.
温先生很焦虑，“我老婆撑不了两天了，为什么检测结果还不出来？”据《财经》记者了解，早在2月2日通知发出前的一周时间里，武汉部分社区就开始集中收治病患者。
"My wife won't last two days, so why hasn't the test results come out yet," Wen told China Financial, a newspaper reported that in the week before the February 2 announcement, some communities in Wuhan began to concentrate on treating patients.
“我们几天前就着手进行集中隔离，2月2日出台的文件算作官方发出的公开口径，对各区又强调了一遍。
"We started the regrouping a few days ago, and the document released on February 2 was officially published and re-emphasised to the districts.
”一位社区街道办人士告诉《财经》记者。
A community street official told Caijing.
比如汉阳区，1月29日就开始对“四类人员”集中隔离收治。
Hanyang District, for example, began on January 29 to "four categories of people" concentrated isolation and treatment.
1月30日晚上，江岸区的一个社区接到通知后，来到集中隔离点，却发现“隔离的地方很紧张，一下都住满了。
On the night of January 30, a community in the Jiangxi province was called to the collective quarantine point, only to find that "the isolated area was tense and full of people.
”因为时间仓促且条件受限，即便是有所准备的社区街道，在安排隔离点时仍然还面临一些现实难题，比如基层工作人员人手不够、基层安全卫生保障有限，等等。
Even prepared community streets face practical difficulties in arranging isolation points because of time constraints, such as insufficient staff at the grass-roots level and limited access to primary health care.
在个别社区，一些病患被告知“不能告诉亲属隔离点的位置”。
In individual communities, some patients have been told that "relatives cannot be told the location of isolation points."
刘梅告诉《财经》记者，她的丈夫住进隔离点已经几天，她还不知道丈夫在哪里。
Liu told Caijing that her husband had been in quarantine for several days and that she did not know where her husband was.
药吃完了也只能由隔离点的人帮忙买，而非亲属去送。
When the medicine is finished, it can only be bought by the people in the quarantine point, not by relatives.
那些集中隔离点究竟有什么样的居住和医疗条件，有的家属目前并不清楚。
It is unclear what kind of housing and medical conditions there are in those collective centres.
集中隔离点是否会更容易造成交叉感染？一位医疗专家对《财经》记者表示，这取决于集中隔离点操作是否规范，如果隔离点按规范做好充分的隔离措施，那么交叉感染的机会将会大大减少。
Is co-infection more likely to result from a concentrated isolation site? A medical expert told Caijing that this depends on whether the central isolation points operate properly and that if the isolation points are properly segregated, the chances of cross-infection will be greatly reduced.
根据2月2日发布的《社区发热病人集中留观点技术指南》，原则上每个留观点按每50人配备1医（最好是全科医生或呼吸科医生）1护，能交接班。
According to the Technical Guide to Concentration of Fever Patients in the Community, published on February 2, each viewpoint is, in principle, followed by one doctor for every 50 people (preferably a general practitioner or respirator).
如果发热者出现病情加重的现象，应立即向当地乡镇卫生院或社区卫生服务中心报告，同时立即送定点医疗机构进行隔离治疗、采样和检测。
If fever sufferers develop, they should immediately report to local township clinics or community health service centers, and immediately send designated medical institutions for isolation treatment, sampling and testing.
。
.
一位区政府总值班室的工作人员向《财经》记者解释，隔离点正在实施过程中，医护人员需要从一线抽取，病人要住、要吃、要睡，各种条件需要一一弄好。
A district government official on duty explained to Caijing that during the implementation of the quarantine point, medical staff had to take a first-line check-up, and the patients needed to live, eat and sleep.
“在封城的情况下，做这些事情异常艰难。
"It is very difficult to do these things in the context of the siege.
所以这是一个渐进推进的过程，不是说一说就到位。
So this is a step-by-step process, not just talk about it.
“他说。
'he said.
社区：通知下达了，认识不一致“我们只有‘上传下达’的权限，但上面对我们的要求却是‘有困难找社区’。
Communities: Notices Issued, Perceptions Discreet "We only have the authority to 'communicate', but what we ask of us is' have difficulty finding a community '.
”遍布武汉各处的居民社区，是对接隔离点和武汉疑似病患的承压阀。
Residents across Wuhan are docking isolation points and pressure-bearing valves for suspected patients in Wuhan.
面对突然蔓延的疫情，在人力短缺、事务繁多的情况下，社区防疫压力很大，也不可能面面俱到。
Faced with the sudden spread of the epidemic, in the case of manpower shortages, a large number of affairs, the community epidemic prevention pressure, it is impossible to cover all aspects.
多位武汉基层社区工作人员告诉《财经》记者，2月2日出台正式文件后，有关集中收治的具体操作标准进行了两个更新：一是需要被集中隔离的人员中，新加入了发热患者与密切接触者两类；二是文件出台后，对不愿意进行隔离的人可以采取强制措施。
Wuhan grass-roots community workers told Caijing on February 2, the official document issued on February 2, the operation of the specific standards for centralized treatment has been updated: one is the need to be concentrated isolation, the new patients and close contacts, and two documents, the document, can be imposed on those unwilling to do so.
截止2月3日傍晚，《财经》记者分别询问了武昌区、汉阳区、江岸区、硚口区等13个区的肺部感染发热病人，有的尚未收到社区集中隔离收治的通知。
By the evening of Feb. 3, Caijing journalists had asked 13 districts, including Wuchang district, Hanyang district, Jiangxi district and Zhangkou district respectively, about cases of pulmonary infection and fever.
据了解，武汉各社区对收治政策的认识度、执行度并不一致。
It is understood that Wuhan communities to the acceptance of treatment policy awareness, the degree of implementation is not consistent.
有的社区早就听说，甚至提前几天行动，有的社区称，尚未收到具体通知，行动相对缓慢。
Some communities have heard about it for a long time, even days in advance, while others claim that they have not yet received specific notification and have been relatively slow to act.
《财经》记者采访了武汉多个社区，对各社区收治政策落地情况进行了初步摸底：汉阳区是靠近武汉华南海鲜市场的重灾区之一，对“集中隔离”指令，汉阳区一位社区负责人告诉《财经》记者，1月29日街道就接到了区里的通知，2月2日政策正式出台，社区有了更清晰的操作流程，落实将更有效。
A reporter from Caijing interviewed several communities in Wuhan and made a preliminary survey of the impact of the policies on admission: Hanyang is one of the hardest hit areas close to the south China seafood market in Wuhan.
某社区一位负责人则表示，他们社区还在研究政策，暂未开始落实。
One community official said his community was still studying the policy and had not yet begun to implement it.
还有两位汉阳区的社区负责人称，目前还没有看到有类似的通知。
Two other community leaders in Hanyang said no such notices had been seen.
另一位汉阳区某社区的负责人表示，2月2日在网上看到过类似的消息，“我们不知道是真的还是假的，还不清楚应该做什么。
"We don't know if it's true or false, and we don't know what to do," said another Hanyang community official, who saw similar news online on February 2.
”他说。
'he said.
在《财经》记者接触的武汉各区域的社区里，江岸区一些社区对“集中隔离”的指令认识相对较为模糊。
Among the Wuhan communities contacted by Caijing, some communities in Jiangxi have a relatively vague understanding of the directive of "centralized segregation."
该区域内的花桥街道、台北街道等社区有关人士表示“不太清楚”，有人甚至还没听过“四类人员”的说法；劳动街道一位社区人士告诉《财经》记者，江岸区有两个隔离点，中原酒店和一个位于花桥的酒店。
Some have not even heard of the "four categories"; a community source on the street told Caijing that there are two isolation points in the Jiangan area, the Zhongyuan Hotel and a hotel in Huaxiao.
据悉，江汉区只是对密切接触者进行隔离，并没有安排轻微发热者和疑似患者。
It is reported that the Jianghan District is only in close contact with the isolation, and did not arrange for mild fevers and suspected patients.
一位江汉区常青街道的社区负责人，他们2月1日收到通知，要对密切接触者进行隔离。
A community leader in Changqing Street, JiangHan District, received a notice on February 1 to isolate close contacts.
2月1日晚6点，另一位江汉区的社区负责人开会部署到晚上8点。
At 6 p. m. on Feb. 1, another Jianghan district community leader met and deployed until 8pm.
因为他接到了街道的要求：密集接触人员全部要收治隔离。
For he had received the street's demand that all personnel in close contact should be treated and isolated.
一位硚口区的社区负责人告诉《财经》记者，街道一共上报了10个人，但一个人也没有收治进去。
A local community chief told Caijing that a total of 10 people had been reported to the street, but none had been admitted.
他所在的社区已经有两名确诊病人上报几天，他不停和街道联系，街道说，“会上报给指挥部”，但目前还没有进展。
In his community, where two confirmed patients have been reported for days, he has been in constant contact with the street, which said "it will be reported to the command post," but no progress has been made.
《财经》记者了解到，因为疫情蔓延，这些社区被推到防治疫情前线，人力、物资等方面难免力不足心，具体流程和事务也较为复杂，处理起来并不容易。
The Caijing correspondent understands that because of the spread of the epidemic, these communities have been pushed to the frontline of fighting the epidemic.
“社区并不是万能的。
"Communities are not everything.
“一位汉阳区的社区负责人对《财经》记者说。
"A community official in Hanyang told Caijing.
他们接收街道派下的通知并执行指令，他们选不了隔离点，也派不了人送患者去隔离点，他们无法改变接收核酸检测的标准，也安排不了医院床位，只能一层层往上报。
They receive notification and execute orders from the streets, they cannot choose isolation points, they cannot send patients to quarantine sites, they cannot change the criteria for receiving nucleic acid tests, they cannot arrange hospital beds, they have to report to the next level.
有能力的卫生服务中心可以安排轻型客车，将需要隔离的人员统一送去隔离点。
Capable health service centres can arrange light passenger vehicles and send people in need of isolation to separate points.
更多的社区只能呼吁相关人员自己乘车前往隔离点。
More communities can only call on the persons concerned to travel to the isolation point by car.
一致之处是，不少社区工作人员并不清楚本区隔离点有多少间房，条件到底怎么样。
The consensus is that many community workers do not know how many rooms there are in the area and what the conditions are.
“我们只有‘上传下达’的权限，但对我们的要求是‘有困难找社区’。
"We only have the authority to 'pass it on,' but we are asked to 'find a community where it is difficult to find.
”一位社区负责人说。
"said one community leader.
武淓一些社区少则几千人，多则上万人，范围大，排查难。
Some of these communities range from a few thousand to tens of thousands. They are large and difficult to check.
一位洪山区洪山街道的负责人说，他所在的社区有6150户，就算发动在职党员进社区以及电话排查，也不可能在短时间里把社区每个人都接触到。
The head of Hongshan Street in Hongshan, a mountainous area, said his community of 6,150 would not be able to reach everyone in the community in a short time, even if active members were brought into the community and through telephone searches.
“我们社区只有50%的入住率，即便如此人数也已经达到20000人了，社区服务点的工作人员每次在线的只有2-3个，应付不了这么多事情。
"We have only 50 percent occupancy in our community, and even then the number has reached 20,000," he said. "There are only two or three people on the line at a time, and they can't cope with so much.
”一位汉阳区的社区负责人说。
"said a community official in Hanyang district.
“我们也心甘情愿付出，但现实情况是给我们的资源真的跟不上。
"We are willing to pay, but the reality is that the resources given to us really can't keep up.
”另一位汉阳社区的负责人告诉《财经》记者，要社区做得好，就要把资源下放到社区。
Another head of the Hanyang community told Caijing that to do well in the community, resources had to be decentralized to the community.
有的社区连完全消毒都做不到，也没有专业的喷壶，只有手持浇花壶，一壶消毒水喷不完一个门栋。
Some communities can't even do complete disinfection, there is no professional spray pot, only hand watering pot, a pot of disinfectant spray can not finish a door.
“按照标准，整个社区一天至少消毒3-4次，我们一个社区有100多个单元，按照我们的设施配备，一趟一趟跑，一天才能喷多少？”在基层卫生服务工作中如何做好防护，也是社区工作人员所关注的。
"By standards, the community as a whole disinfects at least three to four times a day. We have more than 100 units in one community, which is equipped with our facilities and can only be sprayed once a day.
一位江岸区的社区负责人对《财经》记者说，他们街道有一位负责人在1月25日确诊了新冠肺炎，也有一些工作人员出现了类感染的症状。
A Jiangxi community official told Caijing that a street official confirmed pneumonia on January 25, and some workers showed signs of infection.
。
.
另一位社区负责人对《财经》记者表示，社区隔离点最关键的一个作用在于，收治肺CT和血常规高度疑似新冠肺炎的患者，集中起来做核酸检测，确诊以后入院治疗。
Another community leader told Caijing that one of the most critical roles of the community isolation sites was to bring together patients with pulmonary CT and routine suspected Newcomial Pneumonia for nucleic acid testing and hospitalisation after diagnosis.
对于隔离点的医疗防护情况，一位洪山区的社区负责人说，“目前还不能说足够”，之后他们会考虑纳入更多酒店，以前街道会尊重患者意愿，现在需要强制执行。
"It's not enough yet," said a Hong Kong community official of the quarantine site. "They'll consider including more hotels, which used to respect the wishes of patients and now need to be enforced.
有社区负责人说，强制执行是由社区的分片民警负责，每个社区会有2-3位民警配合。
Community leaders said that enforcement was the responsibility of community-based civilian police, with two to three civilian police officers in each community.
“我们都是在摸索，现在只能听上级的安排，如果实行后觉得效果好，那肯定要坚决落实，“上述洪山街道负责人说，“不要错过任何一个人，生命很脆弱，灾难面前能够挽救一条是一条。
"We are all groping, now can only listen to the superior's arrangement, if the implementation of the effect is good, it must be firmly implemented," said the Hongshan Street Director said, "Do not miss any one, life is very fragile, disaster can save one is.
“检测试剂：有的敏感度不高，需重复检测“检出来是阳性就一定是阳性，但检测出是阴性，则不一定是阴性。
"Detection reagents: some sensitivity is not high, the need to repeat the test" positive detection must be positive, but negative detection is not necessarily negative.
”医生说。
'said the doctor.
无论是隔离点还是社区分流的安排，都无法绕过一个问题：多数医院需要病人确诊才能收治，而按目前的流程要求，确诊关键点在于试剂盒的检测容量。
Neither the isolation point nor the community diversion arrangement can circumvent one problem: most hospitals require patient diagnosis to be admitted, and the critical point of diagnosis, as required by current procedures, is the detection capacity of the kit.
一个好的趋势是，核酸确诊试剂的产能在放开，越来越多的疑似病患能尽快用上。
A good trend is that the capacity of DNA diagnostic reagents is being unlocked and that more and more suspected patients can be used as quickly as possible.
武汉各区的隔离点，也成了很多疑似病患获取试纸的新通道。
Wuhan district of the isolation of many suspected patients have become a new access to paper.
2月1日《财经》记者曾报道一位武汉市民李莉的公公病情严重，被安排住进武汉市第八医院，由于该医院无核酸检测资格，老人一直得不到确诊，也无法转去定点医院。
February 1, Caijing reporter reported that a Wuhan city Li Li's father-in-law serious illness, was placed in Wuhan City Hospital No. 8, because the hospital did not have nucleic acid testing qualifications, the elderly have not been diagnosed, and can not be transferred to the designated hospital.
2月2日，李莉告诉《财经》记者，武汉市第八医院可以做核酸检测了。
On February 2, Li Li told Caijing that Wuhan eighth hospital could be tested for nucleic acid.
她的公公在当天中午去做了检测，第二天可以拿结果。
Her father-in-law went to have a test at noon the same day and could get the results the next day.
另一位《财经》记者的采访对象，武汉市民王女士，2月2日也带着父母在湖北市人民医院排队做了检测。
Another Caijing reporter interviewed, Ms. Wang, Wuhan city, February 2 also with their parents in Hubei City People's Hospital queuing for a test.
这些普通武汉的亲身经历和变化，是武汉加快发放核酸确诊试剂的进展反映。
These ordinary Wuhan experience and changes, is Wuhan to speed up the release of nucleic acid diagnostic reagents reflect the progress.
据《财经》记者了解，目前武汉市新开放可做核酸检测的医院如下：武汉大学人民医院，但前提是有其他医院的检测证明，疑似病人才可以做；普爱医院，两院区皆可做，需有症状及CT，需先去发热门诊开单；武汉第七医院，需要提前预约，预约成功后，过五天去做，目前免费；中山医院需预约，每日可做100例以上，医院有导医陪同；同济医院，2天出结果，费用300元；武汉中山医院，需要带上病历资料直接去医院找发热门诊开单检测，无需预约，建议上午去。
Wu Han University People's Hospital can do so only if there is a test certificate from other hospitals, but only if there are other hospitals can do, symptoms and CT, need to go to fever clinic, Wuhan 7th Hospital, need to make advance appointments, after the successful appointment, five days, the hospital is free of charge.
2月3日，国家卫健委高级别专家组成员、中国工程院院士李兰娟在接受媒体采访时表示，武汉目前检测试剂数量不够，因此不是每个人能够得到检测。
In an interview with the media on February 3, Li Lanjuan, a member of the high-level expert group of the National Fitness and Health Commission and member of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, said in an interview with the media.
“早发现、早诊断、早隔离、早治疗，目前在武汉还做不到，希望全国支持武汉。
"Early detection, early diagnosis, early isolation, early treatment, is not yet available in Wuhan, hope that the whole country support Wuhan.
”《财经》记者还了解到，在武汉一些医院，相关检测预约排队及检测周期仍然偏长，有的机构检测出来的“假阴性”率高，部分患者需要重复检测。
The Caijing reporter also learned that in some Wuhan hospitals, waiting lists and check-ups for related tests are still too long, with some institutions testing for "false negative" rates and some patients needing repeated tests.
韩女士和28岁的女儿都出现了肺部感染症状，他们于1月31日在武汉市第七医院排队预约了核酸检测。
Ms. Han and her 28-year-old daughter, both of whom had lung infection symptoms, queued up to book a nucleic acid test at Wuhan's Seventh Hospital on January 31.
她女儿高烧不断，她们在医院深夜打上吊针，没有车回去，只能等预约其他车辆，到家几乎是清晨。
Her daughter had a high fever, they put a late night needle in the hospital, no car to go back, had to wait for other vehicles, almost home in the early morning.
有几天她推着轮椅或蹬三轮车送女儿去医院。
For a few days she wheeled her daughter to the hospital in a wheelchair or tricycle.
好在女儿单位预留了一个检测名额，2月2日女儿在普仁医院做完了检测，正在等结果。
Fortunately, the daughter unit reserved a test place, February 2 in Puren hospital to do a test, is waiting for the results.
但这期间，有社区工作人员对她说，她女儿需要再次申请核酸检测，只有这样才能正式上报。
During this time, however, community workers told her that her daughter needed to reapply for a nucleic acid test in order to be officially reported.
“医生会填写全国疫情网络直报网，申请核酸检测阳性，隔24小时再检测阳性，网络会将该病人信息更正为确诊病人。
"Doctors will fill out the National Outbreak Network Direct Network, apply for a positive nucleic acid test, test positive every 24 hours, and the network will correct the patient's information to confirm the patient.
只有确诊病例，才能尽快入院治疗。
Only confirmed cases can be admitted to hospital as soon as possible.
“对方说。
"said the other.
这意味着她要带着女儿再次排队检验，并等待结果。
This meant that she had to stand in line again with her daughter and wait for the results.
她女儿说：“妈妈，我再没有精力做第二次检测。
"Mom, I don't have the energy to do a second test," she said.
”武汉大学中南医院急诊中心主任助理、急诊外科主任沈俊对《财经》记者说，在新冠肺炎的早期，由于有的试剂盒存在不确定性，有时毫无症状的患者核酸检测也是阳性，医院为了再次确认会进行“双阳检测”。
Shen Jun, assistant director of emergency surgery at Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital, told Caijing that in the early days of the new crown pneumonia, hospitals tested positive for nucleic acid in asymptomatic patients because of uncertainty in some test kits.
但他认为，现在应当已经不需要了。
In his view, however, that should no longer be the case.
“现在了解到核酸试剂是特异性强，敏感性却不高，这意味着如果你检出来是阳性就一定是阳性，但是检测是阴性，则不一定是阴性。
"The fact that nucleic acid reagents are known to be specific but not highly sensitive means that if you test positive you must be positive, but negative tests do not necessarily mean negative.
“他说。
'he said.
如果病人第一次检测结果为阴性，这意味着，医生可能要再检验一次。
If the patient's first test results are negative, this means that the doctor may have to take a second test.
一位武汉定点医院的医生告诉《财经》记者，他见过肺CT表现为严重病毒性肺炎的患者，核酸两次检测都是阴性，最后转阳。
A doctor at Wuhan Ding-point Hospital told Caijing that he had seen patients with pulmonary CT showing severe viral pneumonia and that nucleic acid tests were negative on both occasions and turned positive.
他们医院核酸试剂的阳性率为45%。
Their hospital nucleic acid reagent positive rate is 45%.
之前在一些疑似病患口中，排上试剂盒检测堪比“中彩票”。
Previously, in the mouth of some suspected patients, the test kit on the test kit is akin to "winning the lottery."
而检测试剂盒并不能百分之百准确，需要重复检测，将延长患者住院的等待时间。
And the test kit is not 100% accurate, need to repeat the test, will prolong the waiting time of patients in hospital.
这也导致一部分有着肺部CT磨玻璃状的高度疑似病患，因试剂结果呈阴性，而被医院拒诊。
This also led to the rejection of some highly suspected patients with pulmonary CT glassy due to negative reagent results.
沈俊的同事、中南医院影像科主任张笑春发了一则朋友圈，建议用CT影像作为目前新冠肺炎的主要依据。
Shen Jun's colleague Zhang Xiaochunfa, director of the imaging department of Zhongnan Hospital, suggested CT imaging as the main basis for the current crown pneumonia.
她见过一些起病隐匿、一次甚至多次核酸阴性、无任何临床症状的患者，造成了家庭聚集性的发病。
She has seen cases of insidious onset, one or more nucleic acid negative, without any clinical symptoms, resulting in the onset of familial aggregation.
张笑春建议，对CT影像阳性的患者都采取强制在酒店或它处隔离的方法。
Zhang suggested that CT-positive patients should be forced to use isolation in the hotel or elsewhere.
据悉，张笑春的家人也有感染，她说一个医生家庭防护措施比普通市民要严格都如此，何况普通市民。
Zhang's family is also infected, she said, adding that a doctor's home protection measures are more stringent than those of ordinary citizens, not to mention ordinary citizens.
另一位医学专家对《财经》记者表示，即使文件已经做出规定，但今天的感染病例可能一时不能全部安置不来，还需时间，就需要加强居家防护。
Another medical expert told Caijing that even with the filing, today's infections may not be fully contained for a while, and time will be needed to strengthen home protection.
韩女士在医院撞见一位正在排队的人士，对方说自己已经确诊了，但是还没有床位，只能来打针。
Ms. Han ran into a queuing person at the hospital who said she had been diagnosed but had no beds and had to come for injections.
韩女士担忧，等两次检测结果下来，女儿还是无法入院。
Han worried that the daughter could not be hospitalized until the results of the two tests were confirmed.
。
.
床位：火神山和方舱医院都开始收治“毕竟一切都在变好，那我希望会越来越好。
Beds: Mount Fire and the Fangcao Hospital are both starting to treat. After all, everything is getting better and better.
“在医疗资源紧张的武汉，床位主要是为已经确诊、或疑似的新冠肺炎患者准备的。
"In Wuhan, where medical resources are scarce, beds are reserved for patients with confirmed or suspected pneumonia.
拥有床位，意味着有了专业的医护人员、专业的医疗设备支持，当病人出现突然、危险情况时，可以得到及时救治。
Having a bed means professional medical staff, professional medical equipment to support patients in the event of a sudden, dangerous situation, can be promptly treated.
这也是为什么许多病情转重的病人急求床位的原因。
This is why many patients with severe illness seek emergency beds.
武汉正在抓紧腾挪、新增能收纳中重症病人的医院床位。
Wuhan is holding fast to add hospital beds for patients with moderate or severe illnesses.
截止2月3日23:00，武汉全市定点医院病床已用8279，大于开放床位8199，武汉市卫健委表示，这是部分医院按“应收尽收”的要求，尽最大努力安排加床。
As of 2300 hours February 3, Wuhan city-wide designated hospital beds have been used 8,279, larger than the open bed of 8199, Wuhan City Health Commission said that this is a part of the hospital "receivable" requirements, do their best to arrange extra beds.
床位仍是武汉市抓紧解决的重要问题。
Bed space is still an important problem in Wuhan city.
2月4日上午10点，武汉洪山体育馆内。
February 4th, 10: 00 a.m., Hongshan Sports Center, Wuhan.
《财经》记者看到身穿城市管理局制服的工作人员进入开始封馆。
Caijing reporter saw the staff wearing city administration uniforms enter the opening closed.
之后，将会有90名医护人员负责这处医院内病人的日常监测与治疗，“医护人员一到位，就开始收治患者。
After that, 90 medical staff will be responsible for the daily monitoring and treatment of patients in the hospital. As soon as medical personnel are in place, patients will begin to be treated
”一张被子一叠两折，一面垫在床板上，一面盖在身上，下面有电热毯。
"A quilt was folded in half, with one side propped over the bed, the other over the body, and an electric blanket under it.
单人床旁边放着一套课桌椅，可以放个人用品。
Next to the single bed was a set of desks and chairs for personal effects.
前来支援的医疗队有中南医院，志愿队有湘雅医院。
Medical teams came to support the South China Hospital, the volunteer team has Xiangya Hospital.
2月3日晚对于现场工作人员来说是难眠的一夜。
The night of 3 February was a sleepless night for field staff.
一位施工人员说，他只眯了五十分钟，“然后被电话惊醒，不敢接，怕现场出什么事，赶紧坐起来跑到现场。
"Then he was woken up by the phone and didn't dare to answer it. He sat up and ran to the scene, afraid of something going on at the scene.
”2月4日上午，他们忙着搬运板材，将不同区域分隔，成为互不连通的隔离空间。
On the morning of February 4, they were too busy moving sheets to separate the different areas into disconnected compartments.
医护人员工作区和病人区是分开的，他们各自拥有自己的生活区，可如厕、洗漱。
The working area of medical staff and patient area are separate, they each have their own living area, can toilet, wash.
几位工作人员还在体育馆通道上方张贴标识，“二单元”。
Several staff also put up signs above the gymnasium aisles, "Unit 2."
现场负责人介绍，每一个单元，代表一个病区，体育馆将有三个病区。
Each unit represents a sick area and the gymnasium will have three disease areas, the site manager said.
医生及患者也有各自不同的通道，能够有效做到物理隔离。
Doctors and patients also have different pathways that allow for effective physical isolation.
“这是连夜手画的”，一位负责人现场摊开了社区图纸，他说“根本没时间用电脑出图纸。
"It was done overnight," said one person in charge, who spread out community drawings. "There's no time to use a computer to produce them."
”据《财经》记者了解，临建医院的设计方为中南建筑设计，与雷神山医院相同。
According to Caijing, the design of the Linjian hospital was designed by Zhongnan architectural design, the same as that of Lei Shenshan Hospital.
《财经》记者获悉，现场还需要新开一个发热门诊，改造预计在4日晚12点前完成。
Caijing reporter learned that the scene also needs to open a new fever clinic, the renovation is expected to be completed before 12: 00 pm on the 4th.
在城市的另一边，武汉火神山医院已经竣工交付使用，从2月4日开始集中收治新型冠状病毒肺炎患者。
On the other side of the city, Wuhan Fosen Mountain Hospital has been completed for use, from February 4 to concentrate on the treatment of patients with new coronavirus pneumonia.
医院总建筑面积3.39万平方米，编设床位1000张，开设重症监护病区、重症病区、普通病区，设置感染控制、检验、特诊、放射诊断等辅助科室。
With a total floor area of 33,900 square metres and 1,000 beds, the hospital operates in intensive care, severe and common disease areas, with auxiliary departments for infection control, testing, special consultation and radiological diagnosis.
一些患者将火神山医院视作得到救治的希望。
Some patients see Mount Fukuyama Hospital as a hope of receiving treatment.
武汉市卫健委数据显示，截止2月2日23点，武汉市定点医院共计开放床位7259张，已用7332张，还有131张空床位，多出来的数据也是因为有的医院想方设法加了床。
As of 23: 00 on February 2, the Wuhan Ding Hospital had 7,259 beds open, 7,332 beds had been used and 131 beds were vacant, according to Wuhan Health Commission data.
火神山与雷神山医院加起来，共有2600张病床，有人担心床位是否足够？一位定点医院医生告诉《财经》记者，目前真正重症的患者数量并不多，大部分是轻症患者，可以自行在家隔离，或是社区统一安排隔离。
A doctor at a designated hospital told Caijing that the number of people suffering from serious illnesses is not very high, most of them are mild cases and can either isolate themselves at home or arrange for isolation in the community.
一位一线定点医院的医生告诉《财经》记者，火神山和雷神山医院开放使用后，可以有效缓解市区内医院的压力，确诊的重症病人可以立即转院，“我们就可以开放出病床给其他病患。
A doctor at the first-tier designated hospital told Caijing that the opening of the Mount Fire and Lui Shenshan hospitals would effectively relieve the pressure on hospitals in the urban areas.
”“毕竟一切都在变好，那我希望会越来越好。
"After all, everything is getting better, and I hope it will get better.
“之前曾接受《财经》记者采访的李莉说。
"Li Li, who had previously been interviewed by Caijing, said.
（文中王森、罗忆、刘梅、李莉为化名）声明：本文为《财经》与腾讯新闻独家合作内容，谢绝转载新型冠状病毒疫情系列报道▷ 点击图片查看。
(Wang Sen, Liu Yi, Liu Mei, Li Li for alias): This article for "Finance" and Tencent News exclusive cooperation content, declined to reprint the new coronavirus epidemic series report visit the picture view.
责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Ritual & # 124; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original for Caijing magazine, and should not be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
今天看啥 - 。
What are you looking at today?
本文地址：http://www.jintiankansha.me/t/KUtbRUKvUf。
Address: http: / / www.jintiankansha.me / t / KUTbRUKvUf.
分享到。
Share it.
推荐文章。
Recommend articles.
数据宝。
Data Bab.
“逆行者”！机构预测特斯拉股价上5万元，概念股涨停潮，这些公司业绩或将爆发。
Reverse Walker! Tesla shares are expected to sell for 50,000 yuan, the concept of the stock trading tide, these companies may break out.
13 小时前。
Thirteen hours ago.
21世纪经济报道。
21st Century Economic Report.
#最新疫情地图#【#广西新增12例累计139例#】2月3日0-2-20200204082103。
# Up-to-date epidemic map # 139 cases accumulated in 12 new cases in Guangxi February 3 0-2-20200204082103.
18 小时前。
Eighteen hours ago.
神嘛事儿。
God's business.
台湾人才会说年资，大陆都说阅历或者资历 -20200204032813。
Taiwanese speak of seniority, and the mainland says experience or qualifications - 20200204032813.
23 小时前。
Twenty-three hours ago.
陶博士2006。
Dr. Tao 2006.
过份了（20200203）。
Excessive (20200203).
昨天。
Yesterday.
泽平宏观。
Zepin Macro.
中美实力对比： 科技、民生、教育、营商。
Sino-US Power Contrast: Science and Technology, Livelihood, Education, Business.
昨天。
Yesterday.
集思录。
Brainstorming session.
2月4日投资提示 - 痛心，内疚，自责。
Feb. 4 Investment Tip - Tragedy, Guilt, Self-blame.
昨天。
Yesterday.
泽平宏观。
Zepin Macro.
世界各方对中国疫情的反应、影响及展望。
The response, impact and outlook of the epidemic in China.
3 天前。
Three days ago.
雪球。
Snowball.
疫情中的绝佳投资机会：你们恐惧我贪婪。
A great opportunity to invest in the epidemic: You fear my greed.
3 天前。
Three days ago.
陶博士2006。
Dr. Tao 2006.
节后行情会如何走？（20200131）。
How will the market go after the festival? (20200131)
3 天前。
Three days ago.
月风_投资笔记。
Monthly wind _ investment notes.
。
.
。
.
。
.
看评论馋哭了。
I'm crying for comments.
-20200131122636。
- 20200131122636.
4 天前。
Four days ago.
关于。
About.
移动版。
Mobile version.
SoV5搜索。
SoV5 search.
Python社区。
Python community.
Link管理。
Link Management.
三行代码。
Three lines.
今天看啥 - 让阅读更高品质。
See what today - make reading more high quality.
© 2019 ~ 沪ICP备11025650号。
Zen 2019 ~ Shanghai ICP Readiness 11025650.
