香港抗疫实录：减少人流再关口岸，准备新的检疫设施。
Hong Kong Anti-epidemic Record: Reduce the number of people re-entry ports, preparation of new quarantine facilities.
焦建。
Jiao Jian.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
“防疫工作无分国籍、无分种族，不论持有什么旅游证件，需要以一视同仁方法处理”。
"Prevention shall be carried out without distinction as to nationality, race or travel document, and shall be treated in a non-discriminatory manner."
特区政府会继续密切监察情况，有需要时会毫不犹豫采取进一步措施深圳福田口岸外景。
The HKSAR Government will continue to monitor the situation closely and will not hesitate to take further measures when necessary.
与其相连的香港落马洲口岸已于2月4日凌晨起暂时关停文 |《财经》特派香港记者 焦建编辑 | 苏琦为减少人流、进一步整合口岸管制区，从2月4日零时起，中国香港特区的罗湖、落马洲、皇岗口岸，以及港澳码头被特区政府暂时关闭。
The Hong Kong Lok Ma Chau Control Point has been temporarily closed since the early hours of February 4. To reduce the flow of people and further integrate the control zone, Lo Wu, Lok Ma Chau, Huanggang Port and Hong Kong-Macao Ferry Pier in the Hong Kong SAR of China were temporarily closed by the SAR Government from 0000 hours on February 4.
这是当地继1月30日起采取关闭6个口岸等抗疫措施之外的进一步举措。
This is in addition to the local response to the epidemic, which began on 30 January with the closure of six border crossings.
目前中国香港特区的出入境口岸剩3个，分别是香港国际机场、港珠澳大桥的香港口岸和深圳湾口岸。
The three remaining ports of entry and exit in the HKSAR are the Hong Kong International Airport, the Hong Kong Port of the Hong Kong-Zhuhai-Macao Bridge and the Shenzhen Bay Port.
为减少人员流动，中国香港特区除关闭口岸之外，与内地公共交通的运输能力也会继续向下调整，包括进一步缩减航班等。
To reduce the flow of people, the transport capacity of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of China (HKSAR) with the Mainland will continue to be adjusted downwards, including further reduction of flights, in addition to the closure of ports.
考虑到缺少公共交通，往来人流应会有所下降。
Given the lack of public transport, traffic should decline.
面对香港各界提出的各类防控疫建议及部分群体实施的举措，中国香港特区政府行政长官林郑月娥在2月3日下午举行的相关记者会上称：会继续密切监察情况，包括疫情的发展、出入境的人数等；亦会在有需要的时候毫不犹豫采取进一步的措施，例如强制要求符合健康评估的人士接受检疫。
The Chief Executive of the Hong Kong SAR Government, Mrs Carrie Lam, will continue to closely monitor the situation, including the development of the epidemic, the number of people entering or leaving Hong Kong, etc., and will not hesitate to take further measures, such as imposing quarantine on people who meet the health assessment requirements, at a press conference on the afternoon of February 3.
2月4日上午，中国香港特区政府医管局确认：一名39岁早前确诊感染新型冠状病毒的男病人，因病情恶化，于当日10时30分左右在当地玛嘉烈医院逝世。
On the morning of February 4, the Hospital Authority of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of China confirmed that a 39-year-old male patient infected with the new coronavirus died at the local Princess Margaret Hospital at about 10.30 a.m. on the same day.
关闭更多口岸经过反复斟酌在1月28日时，林郑月娥共计公布了七方面的防疫措施，包括安排滞留湖北的香港居民返港、向所有非合资格人士收取住院费用、全球范围内搜罗口罩及洗手液等防护用品等。
Closing More Crossings After much deliberation, Mrs Lam announced a total of seven preventive measures on January 28, including arranging for Hong Kong residents staying in Hubei to return to Hong Kong, charging hospital fees to all non-eligible persons, and collecting protective equipment such as face masks and hand sanitizers around the world.
另外，内地方面也已暂停向香港发出自由行的签注，包括团队旅行、个人旅行及深圳居民“一周一行”的签注。
In addition, the Mainland has suspended the issuance of free-flowing endorsement notes to Hong Kong, including group travel, personal travel and the "one-week-a-week" sign for Shenzhen residents.
据《财经》记者获悉：目前广东省方面也已停发前往香港的公务签注目前来看，这些防疫措施中产生较为明显效果的，是大幅减少内地和香港两地跨境人员流动。
According to Caijing, the Guangdong Province has also stopped issuing official endorsement for Hong Kong. At present, the more obvious effect of these preventive measures is to significantly reduce the cross-boundary movement of people between the Mainland and Hong Kong.
对比1月29日和2月2日，经除香港国际机场外口岸入境的人数从170991人下降到73019人，降幅达57%；内地入境人士仅7066人；而经除香港国际机场外口岸出境的人数仍有约4.28万人，其中约3.18万人为香港居民。
Comparing the figures for January 29 and February 2, the number of people arriving at the Hong Kong International Airport (HKIA) dropped by 57% from 170,991 to 73,019. The number of Mainland residents was only 7,066. The number of people departing from the Hong Kong International Airport remained at about 42,800, of whom about 31,800 were Hong Kong residents.
罗湖口岸连接香港与深圳罗湖区，落马洲口岸连接深圳福田区，皇岗口岸亦连接深圳福田区，主要交通方式为跨境车辆；港澳码头则提供香港至澳门及珠海等地的水路交通。
Lo Wu Port connects Hong Kong with Shenzhen Lo Wu District, Lok Ma Chau Port with Shenzhen Futian District, Huanggang Port with Shenzhen Futian District. The main mode of transport is cross-boundary vehicles. Hong Kong-Macau Ferry Pier provides waterway transport from Hong Kong to Macau and Zhuhai.
当前仍开放的深圳湾口岸连接深圳南山区，主要交通方式为跨境巴士车辆。
The Shenzhen Bay Port, which is still open today, connects the Nanshan area of Shenzhen with cross-boundary bus transport as the main mode of transport.
根据中国香港特区政府出入境事务处数据显示：2月2日，经此次宣布关闭的4个口岸入境的内地访客为4268人，入境的香港居民则有约4.49万人；而经仅存的3个口岸入境的内地访客和香港居民则分别有7389人和约7.59万人。
According to the Immigration Department of the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, on February 2, 4,268 Mainland visitors and 44,900 Hong Kong residents entered the territory through the four ports declared closed, while 7,389 Mainland visitors and about 75,900 Hong Kong residents entered the territory through the three remaining ports.
《财经》记者曾分别经过上述多个口岸进出香港特区。
Caijing journalists have travelled to and from the HKSAR through the above-mentioned ports.
因皇岗口岸可24小时不间断通关、罗湖及落马洲口岸均通过香港地铁连接，经其出关后均处于深圳的人群工作、居住核心区，故而这三个口岸是深港两地之间近年来通关人数较多的口岸。
With 24-hour round-the-clock clearance at the Huanggang Port, Lo Wu and Lok Ma Chau ports are all connected by the Hong Kong MTR. They are located in the core areas of Shenzhen's population for work and residence after their exit. These three ports are the most popular border crossings between Shenzhen and Hong Kong in recent years.
相较而言，保留的三个口岸则显得“不方便”。
By contrast, the three ports reserved are "inconvenient."
而林郑月娥也表示：关闭这些口岸后，人们会如何进出香港目前仍无法评估，但这些人可能会因为交通的不方便而选择不跨境，这便是目前想要见到的效果。
Mrs Lam also said it was not yet possible to assess how people would enter or leave Hong Kong after the closure of the boundary crossing points. However, these people may choose not to cross the boundary due to inconvenient transportation. This is the desired effect at present.
此外其还称：特区政府需要照顾到香港人每日跨境的需求，也强烈劝谕市民没有必要最好避免跨境；对于无论是内地还是外地的旅客，都是一视同仁和严格控制。
"The HKSAR Government needs to cater for the daily cross-boundary needs of Hong Kong people and strongly advises the public that it is not necessary to avoid crossing the boundary," the spokesman said.
保留港珠澳大桥的香港口岸，则是为了保留香港与澳门之间的陆路交通。
The Hong Kong Port of the Hong Kong-Zhuhai-Macao Bridge is preserved to maintain land transport between Hong Kong and Macao.
“严控关口压缩人流，然后加强在剩余运作的关口做防控工作……防疫工作无分国籍、无分种族，不论持有什么旅游证件，需要以一视同仁方法处理。
"Strictly control the closure of the compressed stream of people, and then strengthen the remaining operational barrier to do prevention and control work... epidemic prevention regardless of nationality, race, regardless of possession of travel documents, need to be treated in a non-discriminatory manner.
”“进一步控制关口、缩减人流的措施，与我们早前做的是一脉相承，只是力度的问题，以及考虑到疫情的发展。
"Measures to further control the crossings and reduce the flow of people are consistent with what we did earlier, but only in terms of intensity and taking into account the development of the epidemic."
”对于口岸关停的速度及幅度，目前是香港多方持续关心的问题。
The speed and extent of port closures is a continuing concern in Hong Kong.
多位在港深两地间因工作、生活等原因需要跨境的人士对《财经》记者称，除香港中小学开学后的“跨境学童”如何正常上学之外，目前的担心主要有二：其一，可通关口岸持续减少后，通关总人数会否减少，剩下有急切通关需求的人士如聚集到仅剩的三个（对于位于深圳的人士来说则仅剩深圳湾）口岸通关，是否会带来可能的传染风险；其二，如果无法顺利通关，部分持有探亲签证的人士是否会被迫逗留。
Many people who need to cross the boundary for work / life reasons told Caijing. Apart from the continued reduction in the number of cross-boundary students after the opening of primary and secondary schools in Hong Kong, there are two major concerns.
在此前一次关闭关口时，之中国香港特区政府并未对后者给出明确指引。
At the time of the previous closure, China's government had given no clear guidelines to the latter.
2月3日时，林郑月娥则特地指出：对于一些持有来香港“探亲签证”的人士，会推出比较人性化的措施。
On February 3, Mrs Lam pointed out, inter alia, that more humane measures would be introduced for those holding "visitor visas" to Hong Kong.
如果因全面封关，完全不容许这些拿着双程证要来香港照顾幼童的妈妈入境，会出现很大问题，入境处会酌情考虑。
The Immigration Department will consider it appropriate if the entry of mothers with two-way permits to take care of young children in Hong Kong is not allowed at all because of the blanket closure.
“这些例子有很多，我们与内地真的是很紧密，两地人民的交往是很多元，所以一刀切去做一些事所带来的影响是大的。
"There are many examples, we are really close to the Mainland, the people of the two places are a lot of exchanges, so one-size-fits-all to do some things to bring about the impact is great.
”目前已有多个国家暂停了连接中国内地及中国香港特区的航班，亦有国家禁止中国内地及中国香港特区护照持有者入境。
A number of countries have suspended flights to the mainland of China and the Hong Kong SAR of China, while others have banned entry into the mainland and Hong Kong SAR of China.
林郑月娥表示：已在2月2日与多国驻香港的总领事见面。
Mrs Lam said that she had met with the Consuls-General of various countries in Hong Kong on February 2.
此外，因目前菲律宾方面政府亦采取了一系列针对性措施，香港亦会考虑到大量来自菲律宾的海外佣工的跨境需求，帮其解决现时因国际旅游出现的一些阻滞而面对的问题。
In addition, as a result of the targeted measures taken by the Government of the Philippines, Hong Kong will also take into account the cross-border demand of a large number of overseas domestic workers from the Philippines to help them overcome some of the current problems arising from international tourism.
必要时立即采取新的防疫措施在菲律宾出现中国境外首宗死亡案例后，2月4日上午10时左右，中国香港特区政府医管局确认：一名39岁早前确诊感染新型冠状病毒的男病人，因病情恶化，当日晨间在当地玛嘉烈医院逝世。
Immediate New Preventive Measures When Necessary New Preventive Measures After the first death outside China in the Philippines, at around 10: 00 a.m. on February 4, the Hospital Authority of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of China confirmed that a 39-year-old male patient with a new coronavirus had died in the morning of the same day at the local Princess Margaret Hospital.
香港卫生防护中心早先公布的消息显示：该名男病人居住于香港黄埔花园11期1座，患有长期疾病。
The Centre for Health Protection (CHP) of the Hong Kong Centre for Health Protection (CHP) announced earlier that the male patient was suffering from a chronic illness living in Block 11 of Whampoa Gardens, Hong Kong.
1月21日曾乘高铁由香港前往武汉（G306列车），并在2日后于长沙南站乘高铁返港（G79列车）。
On January 21, he took a high-speed train from Hong Kong to Wuhan (G306) and two days later returned to Hong Kong by high-speed rail from Changsha South Station (G79 train).
该中心经调查后称：患者在潜伏期内没有前往医疗机构、湿街市或海鲜市场，亦没有接触野生动物。
After investigation, the CFS said that the patients did not go to medical institutions, wet markets or seafood markets and did not have contact with wild animals during the incubation period.
1月29日起出现肌肉痛，同月31日发烧，入住伊利沙伯医院，当时情况稳定，呼吸道样本对新型冠状病毒呈阳性反应。
He developed muscle pain on January 29 and a fever on January 31. He was admitted to Queen Elizabeth Hospital in stable condition. Respiratory samples were positive for the new coronavirus.
其72岁的母亲亦确诊为患上新型冠状病毒肺炎，并于2月1日起入住鲤鱼门公园度假村接受检疫，同日出现发烧和咳嗽并转送到伊利沙伯医院入院接受隔离治疗，再转送至玛嘉烈医院接受进一步治疗，目前情况稳定。
His 72-year-old mother was also confirmed to have contracted the new coronavirus pneumonia and was admitted to Lei Yue Mun Park Resort on February 1. He developed fever and cough on the same day and was admitted to Queen Elizabeth Hospital for isolation. He was transferred to Princess Margaret Hospital for further treatment.
截止2月4日中午12时，中国香港特区新型冠状病毒确诊病人总数为15人。
As at 12 noon on February 4, a total of 15 patients had been diagnosed with the new coronavirus in the Hong Kong SAR of China.
但由于当日香港公立医院有大量医护人员缺勤，部分紧急服务受到严重影响。
However, some emergency services were severely affected by the absence of a large number of medical staff from public hospitals on that day.
因此医管局发言人于上午10时左右公布消息称：各公立医院急症室目前只能集中有限的值勤人手提供紧急服务，医管局呼吁病情轻微的病人，前往私家医院或诊所。
A spokesman for HA therefore announced at about 10: 00 a.m. that the Emergency Departments of public hospitals are only able to focus on a limited number of staff on duty to provide emergency services. HA appeals to patients with mild illnesses to go to private hospitals or clinics.
“医院管理局呼吁所有缺勤医护人员以病人福祉为大前提，尽快返回工作岗位，为病人提供所需服务。
"The Hospital Authority appeals to all medical staff absent from work to return to work as soon as possible and to provide the necessary services to patients, taking the well-being of patients as a priority.
医管局感谢今日所有值勤医护人员，尽力维持最紧急的服务。
HA is grateful to all the healthcare staff on duty today for their efforts in maintaining the most urgent services.
”医管局发言人称。
A HA spokesman said.
作为进一步防疫措施，中国香港特区政府发言人曾于2月3日时表示：特区政府会继续密切监察情况，包括疫情的发展和出入境人数的变化，有需要时会毫不犹豫采取进一步措施，包括强制要求部分入境人士接受检疫。
As a further preventive measure, a spokesman for the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region said on 3 February that the HKSAR Government would continue to monitor the situation closely, including the development of the epidemic and changes in the number of people entering or leaving Hong Kong.
政府会继续准备更多检疫中心设施以应付需求。
The Government will continue to prepare more quarantine centre facilities to meet the demand.
截止《财经》记者发稿时，这些进一步的措施包括要求在14天内曾经到过湖北省的香港居民，必须接受居家检疫，禁止离开指定的处所；并引入电子手环，以防止接受家居检疫者“离家出走”。
According to the Caijing press release, these further measures include requiring Hong Kong residents who have been to Hubei Province within 14 days to undergo household quarantine and not to leave the designated premises; and introducing electronic bracelets to prevent home quarantine recipients from "running away from home."
香港政府资讯科技总监林伟乔解析称：电子手环目的是确定接受强制家居检疫的人在指定期间不会擅自外出，强调手环不会收集个人资料，已确认符合隐私法规。
The Hong Kong Government Chief Information Officer, Mr Andrew Lam Wai-chiu, explained that the purpose of the electronic bracelet was to ensure that people under compulsory household quarantine would not go out without permission during the specified period.
电子手环不具备GPS定位功能，因接受家居隔离者并非涉嫌犯罪者或罪犯，因此要尊重私隐，让接受隔离者日常生活不受影响及不会觉得被监控。
Electronic bracelets do not have GPS positioning, and since home isolators are not suspected criminals or criminals, it is important to respect privacy so that people in isolation are not affected in their daily lives and do not feel monitored.
“一旦手机或手环被破坏，或手机被带离家，相关设备会即时通知卫生署和警方作出即时跟进。
"If your mobile phone or bracelet is broken or your mobile phone is taken away from home, the relevant equipment will be immediately notified to DH and the Police for immediate follow-up.
”林伟乔称。
"said Lin Weiqiao.
新型冠状病毒疫情系列报道▷ 点击图片查看责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
A new coronavirus series of reports Please click on picture to see Invest & # 44; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
香港抗疫实录：减少人流再关口岸，准备新的检疫设施。
Hong Kong Anti-epidemic Record: Reduce the number of people re-entry ports, preparation of new quarantine facilities.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "香港抗疫实录：减少人流再关口岸，准备新的检疫设施";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "“防疫工作无分国籍、无分种族，不论持有什么旅游证件，需要以一视同仁方法处理”。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "Vaccination efforts need to be handled in a non-discriminatory manner, regardless of nationality or race, and regardless of travel documents."
特区政府会继续密切监察情况，有需要时会毫不犹豫采取进一步措施";。
The HKSAR Government will continue to monitor the situation closely and will not hesitate to take further measures and quot; if necessary.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
