泉州酒店坍塌事故：频频掉玻璃渣的酒店为何成为隔离点？。
Quanzhou Hotel Collapsed Accident: Why Are Hotels Frequently Falling Glass Slag Isolated?
吴雪。
Wu Xue.
新民周刊                      。
Xinmin Weekly.
新民周刊。
Xinmin Weekly.
深度和角度——这就是我们能做的。
Depth and angle - that's what we can do.
。
.
废墟之上那些只有通透却不能承重的玻璃幕墙，对于那些前来隔离的人们来说，危险已埋伏在墙内。
Above the ruins were glass walls that were clear but not heavy, and for those who came to be quarantined, dangers lurked in the walls.
这栋楼的钢结构标准，根本不匹配将来让它运营一家酒店。
The steel structure of the building is not up to par for running a hotel in the future.
记者|吴　雪泉州欣佳酒店坍塌事故发生后的第18个小时，新闻发布会通报最新情况：经初步摸排，事发时大楼内受困人员71人（不含自行逃生9人）截至3月8日16时，已救出48人（其中10人死亡，38人送医治疗），正在搜救的还有23人。
A press briefing 18 hours after the collapse of Wu's Xue Quanzhou Xinjia Hotel was updated: As at 1600 hours on March 8, 48 people (including 10 dead and 38 treated) had been rescued at the time of the crash, and 23 others were in search and rescue.
泉州欣佳酒店救援现场关于事故原因，泉州市鲤城区住建局局长张翼向媒体证实，事发酒店占地5亩，建筑面积约7000平方米，共有7层，属于钢结构房屋。
Quanzhou Xinjia Hotel Rescue scene On the cause of the accident, the Secretary for Construction of Lei Cheng Quanzhou City Zhang Wing confirmed to the media that the hotel covers an area of 5 mu, the construction area of about 7,000 square meters, a total of seven floors, belonging to steel structure houses.
一楼共有6间，其中两间原为超市，春节前该门面房被房主收回开始装修改造。
There are 6 rooms on the ground floor, two of which were supermarkets. Before the Spring Festival, the front door was reclaimed by the owner and renovated.
该建筑经查是2013年开始建设，2018年改造为欣佳酒店，并于当年6月开业，酒店有各类客房共计66间。
The building, which was built in 2013, was converted into a Xin Jia Hotel in 2018 and opened in June of that year, with a total of 66 rooms.
欣佳酒店事发前外景3月7日晚上7时许，酒店房主接到现场施工人员电话称，一楼房屋的一根柱子发生变形，三四分钟后楼体整体坍塌。
On March 7, around 7: 00 p.m., the owner of the hotel received a telephone call from the construction staff, the ground floor building a column deformation, three or four minutes later the building as a whole collapsed.
该楼房坍塌是因为装修还是原来结构问题，还需进一步甄别。
The collapse of the building because of renovation or original structural problems, further screening is required.
泉州市公安局局长李伙金告诉记者，房屋业主杨某某，65岁，为泉州本地人。
Quanzhou City Public Security Bureau Director Li Fengjin told reporters that the owner of the house Yang, 65 years old, Quanzhou native.
公安部门已传唤他到案。
The police have summoned him to the case.
截至发稿，救援工作仍在进行。
As at the time of writing, the relief efforts were ongoing.
5小时手动破拆 12岁男孩的妈妈获救3月7日22点获救的陈先生回忆，事发时，他刚刚洗完澡，身上还裹着浴巾，正准备吃东西，由于当时酒店楼梯坍塌的速度极快，周围扬起了大量灰尘。
5-hour manual demolition of 12-year-old boy's mother rescued at 22: 00 March 7, the incident, he had just bathed, wrapped in bath towels, is ready to eat, because the hotel staircase collapsed at a very fast speed, surrounded by a large amount of dust.
“人一腾空，酒店的灯全灭了，周围一片漆黑，感觉自己撞到了床上。
"As soon as it was empty, the lights went out and it was dark and I felt as if I had hit my bed.
”危急时刻，陈先生本能地抓住了床上的枕头，并尽量蜷缩自己的身体，将枕头护住自己的头部。
At the critical moment, Mr. Chen instinctively grabbed the pillow from his bed and curled himself up as tightly as he could, covering his head with a pillow.
过了一会儿，当楼体不再摇晃后，他尝试着站起来，却发现左腿被东西卡住，“当时我把腿慢慢挪出来，发现在流血，就用身上的浴巾包住了伤口。
After a while, when the building no longer shook, he tried to stand up, only to find his left leg stuck in something. "I slowly moved my leg out and found the bleeding, wrapping a towel around the wound.
”陈先生回忆称，周围太黑了，灰尘很多，有点呼吸不过来，他开始一点点扒开旁边的废墟石块。
Mr. Chen recalls that it was too dark, too dusty and a bit too windy for him to breathe, and he began picking through the rubble a little bit.
3月8日早上8点13分，厦门消防救出被困男子，消防员将其抬上了担架在摸索的过程中，陈先生找到了手机，并与救援人员取得联系，确定了自己的位置。
March 8, 8: 13 a.m., Xiamen fire rescue trapped men, firefighters put it on the stretcher groping, Mr. Chen found the mobile phone, and contact rescue personnel to determine their location.
“我左边房间的夫妻被压住了，但感觉伤势不重，可以正常说话，但右边的男士可能受伤比较重，说话说不清楚。
"The couple in the room to my left was crushed but didn't feel seriously injured and could speak normally, but the man on the right was probably hurt more severely and could not speak clearly.
”在等待救援时，陈先生与其他伤者互相打气，直到当晚10时许，消防人员把他们救出。
While waiting for help, Mr. Chen and the other injured exchanged cheers until around 10 p.m. the firemen rescued them.
伤者被救出消防员握手打气而在3月8日的救援过程中，一对母子的安危牵动着大家的心。
Firemen shook hands to cheer the injured and the safety of a mother and a child touched the hearts of all during the March 8 rescue.
3月8日上午9点多，泉州市消防救援支队在坍塌现场某个区域发现一名12岁男孩，当时，男孩意识清醒，还能流利对答。
March 8, more than 9 a.m., Quanzhou City Fire Rescue Branch found a 12-year-old boy at the scene of the collapse, the boy was conscious and fluent in the answers.
但是由于洞口太小，无法第一时间救出。
But because the hole is too small, can not be rescued first.
救援人员一边安慰他，一边开展救援工作。
Rescue workers comforted him as they worked to rescue him.
为避免男孩担心，消防人员还给他戴上了眼罩、头盔。
In order to avoid the boy worried, the firemen also put on his blindfold, helmet.
随着一块一块水泥块挖出，一点一点破拆，经过两个多小时的努力，在上午11点25分，男孩被慢慢托举出洞口，随后被送往医院接受治疗。
After more than two hours of hard work, the boy was slowly presented with a hole in his mouth at 11.25 a.m. and was then taken to hospital for treatment.
获救后，男孩说的第一句话是：“妈妈在我旁边，还活着。
When he was rescued, the first thing the boy said was, "Mom is by my side, still alive.
”据消防人员介绍，13时左右，男孩的妈妈上半身已经出来了，部分身体还被卡住，消防救援人员用矿泉水瓶盖给她喂水。
At about 1300 hours, the boy's mother was outside and part of her body was stuck, firefighters said, adding water to her from a water bottle.
13点30分左右，消防救援人员通过蛇眼生命探测仪进行探测，发现男孩的妈妈的小腿部位被角铁卡住，只能手动破拆救援。
Around 13: 30, fire rescue workers through the snake eye life detector detection, found that the boy's mother's calf was stuck in the corner of the iron, can only be broken manually.
经过5个多小时的紧张救援，男孩的妈妈终于被救出。
After more than five hours of intensive rescue, the boy's mother was finally rescued.
Play泉州12岁男孩获救，第一句话让人泪奔记者还从泉州市温州商会会长刘志康口中了解到，在事故现场有7名温州人被困，包括游绍峰 、金朝荣、薛福平、王映、周成成、潘富明、薛孝德等。
Liu Zhikang, head of the Wenzhou Chamber of Commerce in Quanzhou City, told reporters that seven Wenzhou people were trapped at the scene of the accident, including Youshofeng, Jin Chaorong, Xue Fuping, Wang Ying, Zhou Chengcheng, Pan Fuming and Xue Xiaode.
目前，金朝荣已被救出，并借了医护人员的手机报了平安。
At present, Jin Zhaorong has been rescued, and borrowed the medical staff's mobile phone reported safe.
但由于现场做了隔离，不允许进入，暂时不清楚具体救援情况。
However, due to the isolation of the site, access was not allowed, the specific rescue situation is not clear for the time being.
泉州市温州商会名誉会长王建胜说，据不完全统计，目前在泉州的温商有1万多人。
Wang Jiansheng, honorary chairman of the Wenzhou Chamber of Commerce in Quanzhou, said that according to incomplete statistics, there are currently more than 10,000 people in Quanzhou.
至于为何在酒店被隔离，一位泉州商会会员柯先生说，他今年回温州过年后返回泉州，被要求居家隔离了。
As for why he was quarantined at the hotel, Mr. Ke, a Quanzhou Chamber of Commerce member, said he returned to Quanzhou this year after the Chinese New Year and was ordered to stay in quarantine.
至于为什么7名温州人在酒店隔离，并不清楚原因。
It is not clear why the seven Wenzhou people were isolated in the hotel.
柯先生还说，在泉州还有一个隔离点，里面有160到180名温州人，“现在欣佳酒店塌了，我们心慌”。
There is also a quarantine point in Quanzhou with 160 to 180 Wenzhou residents, Mr. Ke said. "Now Xinjia Hotel collapsed and we are in a panic."
救援难度大 具体情况未知据官方消息，此次事故救出的伤员就近送到市第一医院、福建医科大学附属第二医院、市中医院、第910医院等救治。
The injured were taken to the nearest municipal hospital No. 1, Fujian Medical University Hospital No. 2, City Chinese Hospital and Hospital No. 910, according to official sources.
唐双平(图中)的儿子唐凡事发时在酒店值班，尚无消息《新民周刊》记者联系上了当地参与救援医院的某位负责人，他告诉记者，事发后，医院共接诊了6个病人，1个重症，目前正在ICU抢救，5个轻症，一般为外伤，并无大碍。
Tang Shuangping (pictured) son Tang, who works in a hotel at the time of the accident, has not yet heard from a local official involved in the rescue hospital. He told reporters that after the incident, the hospital had treated six patients, one of whom was in serious condition and was being treated by ICU.
这6名伤者包括温州和湖北等地，但具体名单需通过官方途径发布，个人暂不便告知。
The six injured include places such as Wenzhou and Hubei, but the names need to be released through official channels, and individuals are temporarily inconvenienced.
加之隔离医生的办公室在酒店一层，救援难度大，具体情况未知。
Combined with the isolation of the doctor's office in the first floor of the hotel, the rescue is difficult, specific circumstances unknown.
该负责人说，虽然医院并非新冠肺炎定点收治医院，但该医院传染病科室颇有口碑。
Although the hospital is not the designated hospital for Newcastle Pneumonia, the hospital's infectious disease department has a reputation, the official said.
考虑到疫情管控和隔离人员的特殊性，出诊到现场的医护人员，严格按照三级防护标准。
Considering the particularity of epidemic control and quarantine personnel, the medical staff who come to the scene are strictly in accordance with the third level of protection.
为此医院还专门腾空了一个病区和ICU重症监护室，并开辟急诊绿色通道，收治来自欣佳酒店的坍塌伤者。
A special section of the hospital and ICU intensive care unit were vacated, and an emergency green passage was opened to treat the victims of the collapse of the Xinjia Hotel.
此外，泉州市中医院的医生告诉《新民周刊》，他们医院收治的是第一批轻伤高楼层伤者，大约有十几人。
In addition, doctors at Quanzhou Hospital told Xinmin Weekly that the hospital had treated about a dozen people injured on the first slightly injured floors.
根据官方通报信息显示，事发当时，欣佳酒店集中医学观察点共入住重点疫区或有相关旅居史的人员58人，经过核酸检测均为阴性。
According to the official information, at the time of the incident, the Yan Jia Hotel concentrated on medical observation points in key affected areas or 58 people with a history of sojourn, all of whom tested negative for nucleic acid.
此外，欣佳酒店还有管理、服务等人员16人，另有租在该栋大楼的车行人员6人。
In addition, there are 16 management, service and other staff, as well as six car dealerships in the building.
两次极为短暂的预警事故的发生，并非毫无预兆。
Two extremely brief early-warning incidents did not occur without warning.
家住欣佳酒店附近小区的陈女士，就是这次事故的预警者之一。
Ms. Chen, who lives in the neighborhood near Xinjia Hotel, was one of the early-warning people of the accident.
3月7日当晚7时10分，陈女士从外面开车返回家中，途经欣佳酒店时，发现酒店楼上不断有碎玻璃掉下，有的细颗粒，有的大碎片，她感到很奇怪，朝楼上看时听到嘈杂声，以为楼上有人在吵架扔酒瓶。
On the evening of 7 March at 7.10 p.m., as she was driving home from the outside and passing through the Xinjia Hotel, Ms. Chen was surprised to hear the noise as she looked upstairs and thought someone was throwing bottles at a quarrel upstairs.
她把这一异常情况告知了旁边三个穿制服的工作人员，但对方并未在意，也未核实处理。
She informed the next three uniformed staff of this anomaly, but the other party did not pay attention to it and did not verify its handling.
陈女士怕自己的车子被掉下的玻璃砸坏，于是转身回酒店门口检查车子，这时，仍不断有玻璃渣往下掉，但似乎除了陈女士，并没有人发现什么异常。
Fearing that her car might have been broken by falling glass, Ms. Chen turned back to the door of the hotel to check the car, while glass slag continued to fall, but no one seemed to notice anything unusual except for Ms Chen.
陈女士回忆，当时往家方向走出二三十米远，就突然听见“轰”的一声巨响，她不确定是地震还是油库爆炸，于是拔腿飞快地往前跑。
Chen recalled walking 20 or 30 meters toward her home when she heard a loud bang. She wasn't sure if it was an earthquake or an oil depot.
再回过头时，她看到扬起的满天灰尘，又过了一阵子，她才意识到酒店楼塌了。
Looking back, she saw the dust rising from the sky. It was some time before she realized that the hotel building had collapsed.
“如果当时再迟十几秒，估计自己也跑不掉了，现在想起来非常后怕。
"If then a dozen seconds later, I guess I can not run away, now I think very scared.
”陈女士说，遗憾的是，当时如果工作人员能够对“掉玻璃渣”的情况足够重视，或许就能多挽救几个人的生命。
Unfortunately, if enough attention had been paid to the case of "glass slag," several more lives might have been saved, Ms Chen said.
《新民周刊》记者注意到，另一条预警信息如果也能引起重视，事故损失或许会更小。
Xinmin Weekly reporters noted that another warning message, if it can also attract attention, the accident losses may be even smaller.
相关通报称，事故发生前，房主曾接到了现场施工人员电话，称正在进行装修作业的一楼房屋的一根柱子发生变形。
Prior to the accident, the owner had received a telephone call from the site construction staff, said the renovation of the first floor of the building a post deformation.
但房主并未在意，三四分钟后，楼房整体坍塌。
But the owner didn't care. Three or four minutes later, the building collapsed.
而一位曾经承租过一楼的4S店员工也说过，开张后的店铺经常有碎玻璃，估计是玻璃受压过重开始爆裂。
An employee of 4S, who used to rent the first floor, said the shop often had broken glass after it opened.
2017年酒店装修到三楼时，玻璃爆裂更加严重，直到最后他们店内员工发现钢柱变形。
When the hotel was renovated to the third floor in 2017, the glass burst became more serious until finally its staff found the steel columns deformed.
事发前店内柱子已经变形一位从事建筑行业多年的泉州建筑人士刘浩（化名）认为，这栋楼建筑是钢结构，二楼至六楼没有地板，是空的。
A Quanzhou builder (alias), a longtime builder in the construction industry, said the building, with no floors on the second to sixth floors, was empty.
钢结构是最结实的，本质上并不存在问题，但改造酒店必然会出现增加墙隔断及结构的调整，比如增添楼板、砌墙，加装修水暖管道等。
Steel is the strongest structure, there is no problem in essence, but the renovation of the hotel will inevitably increase wall partitions and structural adjustments, such as adding floor slab, masonry walls, water plumbing, etc.
那么，整栋楼的承载就超了，负载不了那么大的重量，所以才会出现坍塌时楼体整个向前侧倾倒，但整栋楼的结构并未全部损毁。
Then, the entire building load is overloaded, not so heavy, so that the collapse of the building as a whole to the forward dumping, but the entire building structure has not been destroyed.
换句话说，这栋楼的钢结构标准，根本不匹配将来让它运营一家酒店。
In other words, the steel structure of the building is not up to par for running a hotel in the future.
北京建筑大学设计学院院长王伟在接受采访时表示，和混凝土结构相比，钢结构空间跨度比较大，更适合做商场、厂房，而用作住宅或酒店的话，对技术要求比较高。
In an interview, Wang Wei, dean of the School of Design at Beijing University of Architecture, said the steel structure has a larger spatial span than concrete structures, making it more suitable for shopping malls and factories, while being used as a residence or hotel has higher technical requirements.
“混凝土结构空间跨度一般10米左右，钢结构很轻松地就到20米甚至更高。
"Concrete structures typically span about 10 metres in space, with steel structures moving easily up to 20 metres or more.
”掉玻璃渣的酒店为何成为了隔离点既然早有这些预警，为何欣佳酒店仍然成为了隔离点？刘浩说，酒店附近的这条南环路连接鲤城区和南安市，酒店旁就是县级区的分界线，不到20分钟就能直达泉州西和泉州南高速出入口，以方便快捷为由，将隔离点设置在此处，有其合理性。
With these early warnings, why is the Xinjia Hotel still an isolation point? The south ring road near the hotel connects Lei Cheng and Nan'an, which is the county-level boundary, making it reasonable to locate the site in less than 20 minutes on the grounds of convenience and speed.
欣佳酒店20分钟内可直达泉州高速出入口此外，刘浩还推测，该地区位置较为偏僻，周围的居民楼较少，加上是独立建筑，疫情期间一楼的商铺也大多未营业，可以防止交叉感染。
The hotel has direct access to the Quanzhou expressway within 20 minutes. Liu also speculates that the location of the area is relatively remote, with fewer residential buildings nearby and that most of the shops on the ground floor were not open during the outbreak, thus preventing cross-infection.
也是设置为隔离点的原因。
Is also the reason for setting the isolation point.
但也正因为在欣佳酒店周围，南环路、江南大道和泉南高速两两相交，构成了一片三角地，村民所有的建设用地在这里野蛮生长。
But it is also because around Xinjia Hotel, South Ring Road, Jiangnan Boulevard and Quangnan Expressway meet to form a triangle where all the construction land owned by the villagers grows savagely.
事实上，该楼设计之初就是作为厂房使用的。
In fact, the building was originally designed for use as a factory building.
曾在附近开机械厂的花辰介绍，2012年到2014年间，他的机械厂开在距离300米左右的街对面。
According to Flowers, which opened a nearby machine factory, between 2012 and 2014, his machine shop was across the street from about 300 meters.
据花辰透露，这里很多楼体设计不是正规公司做的，都是一些几个人的小工厂凭经验做。
According to Huachen revealed that many of the buildings here are not designed by the formal company, are a few people's small factory to do by experience.
“楼的产权，是村集体用地，承包给私人使用。
"The property right of the building is the collective land of the village, contracted for private use.
以前情况不好，就盖个厂房。
When things were bad, we built a plant.
情况好了，就改成4s店、酒店。
The situation is good, change to 4sstore, hotel.
发展快了，就从二产变三产了。
Fast development, from the second production to the third production.
”“至于背后是否有其他操作，我这边得到的信息很多，但目前都还未得到证实。
"There is a lot of information on whether there is any other operation behind it, but it has not yet been proved.
”刘浩和所有泉州市民一样还在等待着救援的进展，废墟之上那些只有通透却不能承重的玻璃幕墙，对于那些前来隔离的人们来说，危险已埋伏在墙内。
"Liu, like all Quanzhou residents, is waiting for the rescue work to go ahead, with glass walls above the ruins that are only clear but not heavy, and for those who come to quarantine, the danger lies in ambush inside the wall.
资料来源 |新华社、中国新闻网、上游新闻、三联生活周刊征集令阳春三月，万物复苏。
Source: Xinhua News Agency, China News Network, Upstream News, Triple Life Weekly etc., all things revived in March.
在抗击疫情的战斗中，我们迎来了春天，《新民周刊》也迎来了新闻线索和故事征集的第二弹。
In the fight against the epidemic, we ushered in the spring, "New People's Weekly" also ushered in the news clues and the second round of story collection.
如今，经历了一个多月休眠的城市正在逐渐苏醒，各行各业都开始有序复工复产。
Now, after more than a month of dormancy of the city is gradually waking up, all walks of life began to orderly resumption of work.
不论您是企业老板、管理者，还是普通员工；又或者，您是老师、家长，还是学生本人……我们希望了解复工复产复学过程中的困难，或暖心故事。
Whether you're a business owner, a manager, or an employee, or whether you're a teacher, parent, or student... we'd like to know about the difficulties of getting back to work, or a warm heart story.
如果你是抗疫一线的医生护士，疫情期间拍下了珍贵的摄影作品，也欢迎联系我们投稿。
If you are a first-line doctor and nurse against the epidemic, you have taken valuable photographs during the epidemic and are welcome to contact us for contributions.
当然，抗击新冠肺炎疫情的相关故事，我们仍然欢迎。
Of course, the story of fighting the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia is still welcome.
希望广大读者朋友，提供相关线索，说出你的故事，让我们用新闻留存这一切。
I hope that the general reader friends, provide relevant clues, tell your story, let us use the news to retain all this.
《新民周刊》新冠肺炎线索征集值班编辑联系方式（添加时请简要自我介绍）：周一：应　琛　微信号：paulineying0127周二：金　姬　微信号：gepetta周三：黄　祺　微信号：shewen-2020周四：周　洁　微信号：asyouasyou周五：孔冰欣　微信号：kbx875055141周六：吴　雪　微信号：shyshine1105周日：姜浩峰　微信号：jianggeladandong✳如你需要捐赠物资，可与以下两位工作人员联系:王勇：WangYong-SH吴轶君：rommy150708（添加时请注明“捐物资”，方便工作人员快速通过您的申请，谢谢。
WangYong-SH micro-signaling: Zhou Jie micro-signaling: Zhou Jie micro-signals: kbx875055141 Friday: kbx875055141 If you need a donation, please contact: Wang Yong-SH micro-signaling: kbx875055141 Sunday: Wu Xue micro-signal: JiangHao Feng micro-signal: www.jinggeladandong: www.youtheme.cn
）新闻是历史的底稿，你们是历史的见证者。
) News is the manuscript of history, and you are witnesses to it.
期待你的故事、你的线索！▼大家还都在看这些▼·泉州欣佳酒店整栋坍塌，装修期间就曾引发承重担忧·口述实录 | 离我们这个团解散、团长“解甲归田”的日子，快了·口述实录 | 独自进武汉当心理志愿者，我竟也两次崩溃新民周刊所有平台稿件，未经正式授权一律不得转载、出版、改编或进行与新民周刊版权相关的其他行为，违者必究。
Why don't you tell us why Why don't you come back to Wuhan Why don't you try to reprint, publish, adapt, or do anything else about Xinmin weeklies copyright
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
泉州酒店坍塌事故：频频掉玻璃渣的酒店为何成为隔离点？。
Quanzhou Hotel Collapsed Accident: Why Are Hotels Frequently Falling Glass Slag Isolated?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "新民周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "泉州酒店坍塌事故：频频掉玻璃渣的酒店为何成为隔离点？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; Quanzhou's hotel collapse: Why did the hotel that frequently dropped glass slag become a quarantine?;
var msg_desc = "废墟之上那些只有通透却不能承重的玻璃幕墙，对于那些前来隔离的人们来说，危险已埋伏在墙内。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; glass walls at the ruins that were clear but not heavy, and for those who came to be quarantined, the danger lay in wait.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '泉州欣佳酒店整栋坍塌，装修期间就曾引发承重担忧',。
The entire Quanzhou Xinjia Hotel collapsed at the time of its renovation. & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '新民周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '口述实录 | 离我们这个团解散、团长“解甲归田”的日子，快了',。
At the time our regiment was disbanded and its leader disarmed and returned to the fields at & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '新民周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '口述实录 | 独自进武汉当心理志愿者，我竟也两次崩溃',。
At the service of Wuhan as a psychological volunteer I also twice failed and failed.
subject_name: '新民周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
var title ="新民周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
