协力抗疫：京沪等地纾困中小企业，效力发挥待政策落实。
Cooperation to combat the epidemic: Beijing and Shanghai and other places to rescue small and medium-sized enterprises, effectiveness pending policy implementation.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 财经五月花。
The following article comes in May.
Author 财经五月花。
May Flowers of Finance.
财经五月花。
May Flowers of Finance.
这是《财经》杂志“资本与金融”领域的垂直公号，聚焦前瞻、深度的金融制度与市场报道。
This is Caijing magazine "Capital and Finance" field of vertical public, focusing on the forward-looking, in-depth financial system and market reporting.
。
.
各地出台扶持政策，更重要是释放一个信号，抗击疫情是全社会的事。
It is more important to send a signal that fighting the epidemic is a matter for society as a whole.
疫情直接损害企业利益，也影响社会稳定，应寻找可行的方式共担损失文 |《财经》记者 张颖馨 张威 俞燕编辑 | 袁满“今天接到4个电话，都是来帮助我们解决资金问题的。
The epidemic directly harms business interests and destabilizes society. Find ways to share losses. 'Yuan Meng, a reporter with Caijing Zhang Ying-wei, has received four calls today to help us solve our financial problems
雪中送炭，很感动。
I was moved by the kindness.
”经历近半月的资金吃紧后，眉州东坡董事长王刚终于看到了希望。
After nearly half a month of funding constraints, Wang Gang, chairman of Mei Zhou Dongpo, finally saw hope.
2月3日，北京下发《北京市人民政府办公厅关于进一步支持打好新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控阻击战若干措施》，出台包括鼓励对中小微租户适度减少租金、解决困难企业融资问题等19条措施（简称“北京抗疫19条”）。
February 3, Beijing issued the Beijing Municipal People's Government Office to further support the construction of a new coronavirus infection of the pneumonia epidemic prevention and control measures, including the introduction of 19 measures to encourage small and medium-sized tenants to moderate rent reduction, solve difficult enterprise financing problems (Beijing Anti-epidemic Rule 19).
无独有偶。
Not at all.
同日，上海出台针对企业的“减负”政策，涉及稳岗、社保缴费、培训补贴等方面。
On the same day, Shanghai issued a "burden reduction" policy for enterprises, involving stable post, social security contributions, training subsidies and so on.
此前的2月2日，《苏州市人民政府关于应对新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情支持中小企业共渡难关的十条政策意见》（下称“苏‘恵’十条）亦出台，涉及加大金融支持、稳定职工队伍、减轻企业负担等方面内容。
Earlier, February 2, ten policy recommendations were provided to help SMEs overcome the pneumonia epidemic caused by the new coronavirus infection (hereinafter referred to as "Su 'benefits'), which involved more financial support, stable workforce and reduced burden on enterprises.
自新型冠状病毒感染肺炎（下称“新型肺炎“）疫情不断蔓延，餐饮、旅游、电影、交运、教育培训等行业遭受冲击，身处行业之中的中小微企业主、个体经营户等亦面临诸多挑战。
Since the outbreak of the new coronavirus pneumonia (hereinafter referred to as "new coronavirus") spread, catering, tourism, film, delivery, education and training industries have been hit, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and self-employed people in the industry are also facing many challenges.
（详见《财经》“疫情重压中小企业：现金流告急 停工裁员待扶持”一文）在此背景下，行业从业者、学者等相继发声，呼吁关注遭受疫情冲击的中小企业。
(See Caijing for more details: Small and medium-sized enterprises: cash flow stoppage, lay-offs and layoffs to be supported) In this context, industry practitioners, academics and others have called attention to small and medium-sized enterprises hit by the epidemic.
有业内人士直言，北京、上海、苏州相继出台针对中小企业的纾困措施，是对当下市场声音的积极响应，但具体效力还要看各地如何落实。
People in the industry say that the relief measures for small and medium-sized enterprises in Beijing, Shanghai and Suzhou are a positive response to the sound of the market, but their effectiveness will depend on how local implementation.
此外，遏制疫情发展，让企业尽快恢复生产运营，才是解决问题的根本之策。
In addition, to contain the spread of the epidemic and allow enterprises to resume production and operation as soon as possible is the fundamental solution to the problem.
三地“出手”纾困王刚还没有来得及看“北京抗疫19条”的详细内容，但是他感觉到了变化：2月3日当天，他已接到北京市商务局相关负责人、某商业银行负责人、某融资担保公司等机构负责人打来的4个电话，对方详细了解了眉州东坡的具体难题，其中有机构表示愿意提供相关资金支持。
On February 3, he received four telephone calls from the head of the Beijing Municipal Bureau of Commerce, the head of a commercial bank, the head of a financial guarantee company, and other organizations.
“这是那么多天以来我听到的最好消息。
"It's the best news I've heard in days.
”王刚告诉《财经》记者，疫情发生后，多家餐饮企业被迫宣布暂停营业，随之而来的房租、人员成本等问题，成为压在他们身上的“大山”。
Wang told Caijing that after the outbreak, catering companies were forced to suspend operations, with the attendant rent, personnel costs and other issues that weighed on them.
如今，这些难题有望得到解决。
These challenges are now expected to be resolved.
《财经》记者注意到，在稳岗及缓缴社会保险方面，苏“恵”十条提出“对不裁员或少裁员的参保企业，可返还其上年度实际缴纳失业保险费的50%”、“对受疫情影响，面临暂时性生产经营困难，确实无力足额缴纳社会保险费的中小企业，按规定经批准后，可缓缴养老保险、失业保险和工伤保险费，缓缴期最长6个月”等。
"For those enterprises affected by the disease and facing temporary difficulties in production and operation and truly unable to pay the full social insurance premium, the benefits may be deferred for up to six months after approval," Caijing noted.
上海市政府则表示，将继续对不裁员、少减员、符合条件的用人单位返还单位及其职工上年度实际缴纳失业保险费总额的50%；同时，从今年起将上海市职工社会保险缴费年度(含职工医保年度)的起止日期调整为当年7月1日至次年6月30日，推迟3个月。
The Shanghai municipal government said it would continue to adjust the starting and ending date of social insurance contributions for employees in Shanghai from July 1 to June 30 this year, a three-month delay, to 50 percent of the total unemployment insurance premiums actually paid by employers and their employees in the previous year.
据测算，该措施当年度将为上海市企业减轻社保缴费负担101亿元。
It is estimated that the measure will reduce the burden of social security contributions of 10.1 billion yuan for Shanghai enterprises in that year.
此外，对社会保险缴费期进行延长，其指出参保单位逾期缴纳社会保险费的，相关补缴手续可在疫情解除后3个月内完成。
In addition, the period of social insurance contributions was extended to indicate that in the case of late payment of social insurance premiums by the insured unit, the relevant supplementary payment procedures may be completed within 3 months after the end of the epidemic.
“北京抗疫19条”亦提出，企业因受疫情影响导致生产经营困难的，可以通过与职工协商一致采取调整薪酬、轮岗轮休、缩短工时、待岗等方式稳定工作岗位。
"Article 19 of the Beijing Anti-epidemic," also put forward that enterprises affected by the epidemic cause difficulties in production and operation, they may, through consultation with workers, adopt measures such as adjusting remuneration, rotating vacations, shortening working hours and waiting lists.
尽量不裁员或者少裁员。
Try not to cut staff or cut staff.
符合条件的企业，可按规定给予失业保险费返还。
Eligible enterprises may be reimbursed unemployment insurance premium according to regulations.
与此同时，将1月、2月应缴社会保险费征收期延长至3月底。
At the same time, the period of collection of social insurance contributions due in January and February was extended to the end of March.
对于旅游、住宿、餐饮、会展、商贸流通、交通运输、教育培训、文艺演出、影视剧院、冰雪体育等受影响较大的行业企业，则可将疫情影响期间应缴社会保险费征收期延长至7月底。
The period of collection of social insurance contributions payable during the epidemic period may be extended to the end of July for enterprises in industries that are more affected, such as tourism, accommodation, catering, convention and exhibition, trade circulation, transportation, education and training, cultural and cultural performances, film and television drama schools and ice and snow sports.
“这些政策中，社保的延长对我最有价值。
"Of these policies, the extension of social security is most valuable to me.
因为社保延长，就相当于每个月大概最少能得到几万元的流动资金，六个月也有十几万元，人越多，效果越明显。
Because the social security extension, the equivalent of at least tens of thousands of dollars a month of liquidity, six months also have tens of thousands of yuan, the more people, the more obvious the effect.
”某小微企业主告诉《财经》记者。
A small business owner told Caijing.
亦有民营企业向《财经》记者直言，北京此次提出“与职工协商一致采取调整薪酬”等措施，给了企业负责人充分的自主权和沟通空间。
Some private enterprises have told Caijing that Beijing has proposed to take measures such as "adopting salary adjustment by consensus with employees," giving the company leaders full autonomy and communication space.
而不是“一刀切”，要求企业在没有营业收入的时候，依然向员工支付全额工资。
Instead of "one size fits all," companies are required to pay their employees full wages when they have no operating income.
值得注意的是，“北京抗疫19条”，苏“恵”十条均提出鼓励减免企业租金等措施。
It is worth noting that the "Beijing plague 19" and Su "benefits" are all proposed to encourage enterprise rent reduction and other measures.
后者更是提出减免中小企业税费、延期交纳税款等措施：“因疫情原因，导致企业发生重大损失，正常生产经营活动受到重大影响，缴纳房产税、城镇土地使用税确有困难的，可申请房产税、城镇土地使用税困难减免；对因受疫情影响办理申报困难的中小企业，由企业申请，依法办理延期申报。
The latter also proposes such measures as reducing or waiving taxes for small and medium-sized enterprises and postponing payment of taxes and duties: "If the epidemic causes serious losses to enterprises, and the normal production and operation activities are seriously affected, they may apply for housing property tax and urban land use tax relief.
对确有特殊困难而不能按期缴纳税款的企业，由企业申请，依法办理延期缴纳税款，最长不超过三个月。
Enterprises that have genuine special difficulties and are unable to pay their taxes on time shall, upon application by the enterprises, handle deferred payment of taxes in accordance with the law for a maximum period of three months.
”“当前小微企业生存最关键的问题有足够的现金流儿，减免租金，如果按月缴纳还有影响，但是我们都是按年缴纳，早就交完了，所以影响完全体现不出来。
"The most critical issues for the survival of micro and small businesses at the moment are sufficient cash flow, rent relief and if monthly payments have an impact, but we are all paying on an annual basis and are long past due, so the impact is not entirely visible."
”上述小微企业主直言，当前最重要的是保证资金充足。
The most important thing now is to make sure the money is adequate, the micro-entrepreneurs say.
王刚亦对上述观点表示认同，他告诉《财经》记者，现在只要银行不断贷、不抽贷，且愿意提供更低息的资金，眉州东坡就能继续坚持下去。
Wang agreed, telling Caijing that the east slope of Mei Zhou would continue as long as banks continued to lend, did not lend and were willing to provide lower interest rates.
《财经》记者注意到，“北京抗疫19条”，苏“恵”十条均提及针对企业加大金融支持，并强调“对因受疫情影响经营暂时出现困难但有发展前景的企业不抽贷、不断贷、不压贷”。
The benefits could be increased to enterprises, as noted by Caijing 19, while the ten benefits refer to increased financial support to the enterprise, and stress that "no loans, loans or loans are made to promising enterprises that are temporarily in difficulty due to the epidemic."
其中，“北京抗疫19条”提出，引导辖区内各金融机构针对疫情防控涉及的卫生防疫、医药产品制造及采购、公共卫生基础设施建设、科研攻关等企业提供专项信贷服务，对涉及疫情防控的企业信贷申请“特事特办”。
Among them, Article 19 of the "Beijing Anti-epidemic Article" states that financial institutions within their jurisdiction should be guided to provide special credit facilities to enterprises involved in epidemic prevention and control, manufacturing and purchasing of pharmaceutical products, construction of public health infrastructure, and tackling scientific research problems.
苏“恵”十条则进一步提出，鼓励各银行机构通过压降成本费率，加大对小微企业的支持力度，特别是“三必须一重要”重点领域和资金困难的中小企业，在原有贷款利率水平上下浮10%以上；同时，降低利率水平，确保贷款利率低于同期贷款市场报价利率水平，纳入工信等相关部门重点企业名单的，在此基础上下浮30%以上。
The benefits could be further improved by encouraging banking institutions to support MSMEs through reduced cost rates, especially where the "three must be one important" focus area and where funding difficulties are more than 10 per cent lower than the original loan rate.
效力发挥有待政策落实对于上海、苏州、北京三地出台的纾困政策，不少企业认为确实在一定程度上缓解了当前的问题，但总体来看，恐怕效力有限。
Effectiveness Pending Policy Implementation The bail-out policies for Shanghai, Suzhou and Beijing are seen by many companies as easing the current problems to some extent, but overall, they are feared to be of limited effectiveness.
苏宁金融研究院院长助理薛洪言坦言，扶持政策侧重于税费减免和金融支持，属于在政策允许范围内的积极施策，能有效改善中小企业的经营困境，但此次冲击主要来自市场端的需求萎缩，经产业链上下游层层传导、环环相扣，政策端虽已做了积极努力，但缓解程度有限。
Xue Hongyan, assistant director of the Suning Financial Research Institute, admitted that the policy focus on tax relief and financial support is an active policy within the scope of the policy can effectively improve the plight of small and medium-sized enterprises.
一方面，真正能得到银行资金支持的企业毕竟是少数。
On the one hand, only a handful of companies actually get bank funding.
某民营企业负责人直言，从目前苏州、北京提及的纾困行业来说，相对有限，且银行在具体落实中肯定还要考量多方面因素。
The head of a private enterprise bluntly said, from the current Suzhou, Beijing referred to the bail-out industry, relatively limited, and banks in the implementation of the specific consideration of a number of factors.
企业想要真正拿到贷款解决当前的资金难题，并不容易。
It is not easy for companies to actually get a loan to solve their current funding problems.
另一方面，当前困境根源还是在于很多企业无法恢复正常的生产经营。
On the other hand, the root of the current predicament is that many enterprises can not return to normal production and operation.
“北京、上海和江苏的政策，更多是政府人员视角，没有真正解决企业端的需求，作用甚微。
"The policies of Beijing, Shanghai and Jiangsu are more from the perspective of government personnel, do not really address the needs of enterprises, and have little impact.
对制造业而言，关键在于复工，不仅仅是企业自救需要，更是抗疫物资保障的需要。
For the manufacturing industry, the key is to resume work, not only the need for enterprises to help themselves, but also the need to safeguard against epidemic materials.
”万洋集团有限公司总裁吴建明接受《财经》记者采访时表示，一般制造业工业企业在腊月二十以前停产，也就意味着物资储备已经消耗20多天，从抗疫防护物资到动物饲料，已经出现物资短缺迹象。
In an interview with Caijing, Wu Jianming, president of Wan Yang Group, told Caijing that the general manufacturing industry had stopped production by December 20, meaning stocks had been running out for more than 20 days, and there were signs of shortages ranging from protection against the disease to animal feed.
一旦蔓延，后果不堪设想，需要及早应对。
Once spread, the consequences are unthinkable and require an early response.
“其实，各地出台扶持政策，意义不限于扶持本身，更重要地是释放一个信号，即抗击肺炎疫情是全社会的事情，疫情产生的损失直接作用于企业，但全社会都在寻找可行的方式进行损失共担。
"In fact, the introduction of supportive policies everywhere is not limited to support per se, but more importantly sends a signal that fighting pneumonia is a matter for society as a whole and that losses from the epidemic directly affect businesses, but the whole society is looking for feasible ways to share the losses."
”薛洪言说。
"said Xue.
中国邮储银行高级经济师卜振兴告诉《财经》记者，当前主要的困难还是如何恢复企业生产，在防范疫情的前提下让企业正常运转是当务之急。
'The main challenge now is how to resume production and keep the business going as a matter of urgency in the face of an epidemic, 'said Bo Jing, a senior economist at China Post and Reserve Bank.
对于部分制造企业，非人员密集企业要采取措施，逐步恢复生产。
For some manufacturing enterprises, non-personnel-intensive enterprises should take measures to gradually resume production.
并且政策重在落实，只有落到实处才能真正缓解中小企业的经营困难。
And the policy focus on implementation, only implementation can truly ease the small and medium-sized enterprises operating difficulties.
值得注意的是，在落实资金支持的相关政策上，多名银行业人士认为苏“恵”十条提出的“在原有贷款利率水平上下浮10%以上”、“在此基础上下浮30%以上”等要求，存在不妥之处。
It is worth noting that the top ten benefits of "more than 10% above the original loan rate" and "30% above that amount" were considered inappropriate by many bankers to implement the policy.
“这既超出了地方政府权限，也难以真正落实。
"This is beyond the purview of local governments and difficult to implement.
即便是央行，也是通过公开市场操作（比如2月3日逆回购中标利率下行10个基点）、MLF-LPR-贷款利率这样的路径，引导银行降低实体经济融资成本，而不是直接要求银行降低某一些企业的贷款利率。
Even central banks operate through open markets (say, 10 basis points below the reverse repurchase-winning rate on February 3), or MLF-LPR-lending rates, leading banks to reduce the cost of financing the real economy, rather than directly requiring banks to lower the interest rates on some firms "loans.
”某银行业研究人士说。
"said one banking researcher.
一金融业资深人士亦表示，地方政府下发的这些金融支持中小企业政策，以前也有过类似的做法，但成功与否，取决于地方政府与银行的沟通效果。
A senior financial sector official said the local government's financial support policies for SMEs had been similar in the past, but success depended on how well local governments communicated with the banks.
尤其是在银行贷款定价机制已发生变化的情况下，是否具有实操性很难说。
Especially when the pricing mechanism of bank loans has changed, it is hard to say whether it is practical.
北京市网络法学会副秘书长车宁告诉《财经》记者，在如此重压之下、如此短的时间内，出台如此具有针对性、系统性的政策文件，本身是非常难能可贵的。
Caijing, deputy secretary-general of the Beijing Institute of Cyber Law, told Caijing that, under such pressure and in such a short period of time, the introduction of such a targeted and systematic policy document is in itself invaluable.
然而问题在于一些具体的实现方式上。
The problem, however, is in some concrete ways of doing it.
针对贷款利率，首先，金融特别是对银行的监管，其事权属于中央；其次，银行早已不是计划经济时代的“第二财政”，信贷的定价机制也有赖于市场；再者，信贷政策大多集中于金融机构总部，当地分支机构只能向上级机关反映而不能自主决策。
Second, banks are no longer the "second funder" of the planned economy, and their pricing mechanisms depend on the market. Moreover, most credit policies are concentrated at the headquarters of financial institutions, with local branches reporting to higher authorities and not autonomous decision-making.
这就在很大程度上削弱了文件的严肃性、科学性和可执行性。
This greatly weakens the seriousness, scientificity and enforceability of the document.
上述金融业资深人士担忧，如果形成利率洼地，银行资金可能不愿意投放，因为银行有内部转移定价的问题。
These financial industry veterans worry that banks may be reluctant to put money if low interest rates develop because of problems with internal transfer pricing.
从另一方面来说，则会造成高利转贷，反而害了企业。
On the other hand, it will cause usury, but harm the enterprise.
或许更可行而有效的措施是财政贴息。
Perhaps a more feasible and effective measure would be a fiscal discount.
中欧国际工商学院教授许小年近日在接受《新京报》采访时表示，财政政策仍有一定空间，通过缩减财政支出而不是提高赤字率来调整财政政策。
Xu Xiaongnian, a professor at CEIBS, told the Beijing News recently that there was still room for fiscal policy to be adjusted by cutting fiscal spending rather than increasing the deficit ratio.
建议参照2003年“非典”时政府采取的一系列减税降费政策，帮助企业渡过难关。
It is suggested that the government adopt a series of tax reduction policies under SARS in 2003 to help enterprises tide over the difficulties.
在吴建明看来，政府可从以下几方面扶持企业：延长贷款期，并给予疫期贴息；疫期订单索赔按不可抗力认定；借鉴新加坡做法，疫期就业补贴；尽快复工保障物资供应，减轻企业压力。
According to Wu Jianming, the government can support enterprises in the following aspects: extending the loan term and granting interest rebate; deciding on epidemic period order claims on the basis of force majeure; drawing on Singapore's practice, employment subsidy during epidemic period; and restoring the supply of goods and materials as soon as possible to relieve the pressure on enterprises.
亦有北京某餐饮企业负责人表示，希望接下来也能考虑对员工工资所得税进行减免。
There is also a Beijing catering enterprises said, hope that next time can also be considered for payroll income tax relief.
“由于疫情对地方税基影响较大，建议中央政府也要加强对地方特别是经济影响较大地方的转移支付力度，保障地方公共服务提供水准不致因疫情降低，甚至为收入出现竭泽而渔、杀鸡取卵的现象。
"Since the epidemic has a greater impact on the local tax base, it is recommended that the central government also strengthen transfer payments to places with a greater impact on the local economy, so as to ensure that local public service delivery standards are not reduced by the epidemic or even eliminated for the sake of income.
”车宁说。
'said Cunningham.
新型冠状病毒疫情系列报道▷ 点击图片查看责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
A new coronavirus series of reports Please click on picture to see Invest & # 44; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
协力抗疫：京沪等地纾困中小企业，效力发挥待政策落实。
Cooperation to combat the epidemic: Beijing and Shanghai and other places to rescue small and medium-sized enterprises, effectiveness pending policy implementation.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "协力抗疫：京沪等地纾困中小企业，效力发挥待政策落实";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "​各地出台扶持政策，更重要是释放一个信号，抗击疫情是全社会的事。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; The introduction of supportive policies in different parts of the country is more important to send a signal that combating the epidemic is a matter for society as a whole.
疫情直接损害企业利益，也影响社会稳定，应寻找可行的方式共担损失";。
; The epidemic directly harms business interests and destabilizes society. Try to find a way to share the losses and quotas.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
