直击火神山医院：首批病人已经入院，现场忙碌装配收尾。
Go straight to Fosen Mountain Hospital: The first patients have been admitted to the hospital, the scene busy assembly finishing.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 财经十一人。
The following article comes from eleven financial experts.
Author 刘以秦 韩舒淋。
Author Liu Han Shulin.
财经十一人。
Eleven finance and economics.
由《财经》杂志公司产业报道团队创建，研讨企业成败，探究行业兴衰，推动阳光商业。
Founded by Caijing magazine's industry report team, it explores the success or failure of enterprises, probes into the ups and downs of the industry, and promotes sunshine business.
因抗击疫情而诞生的武汉火神山医院，创下建设速度和科技装备的历史之最。
Wuhan Fosen Mountain Hospital, born out of the fight against the epidemic, set the construction speed and the history of the most scientific equipment.
2月4日上午，率先启用的部分病房正式接收了第一批病人。
On the morning of February 4, the first patients were officially admitted to some of the first wards opened.
《财经》记者2月3日下午在现场看到，负责收尾的数千名工作人员仍保持高强度作业，完成最后的设备装配Play文 |《财经》记者刘以秦 发自武汉《财经》记者韩舒淋发自北京编辑 | 谢丽容2月2日，以罕见速度建成的武汉火神山医院举行了隆重的建成交付仪式。
Caijing reporter Han Shulin from Wuhan Huoshu Mountain Hospital, built with rare speed, held a grand delivery ceremony on February 2, as thousands of staff in charge of the closing ceremony continued to work at full capacity to complete the final equipment assembly, Caijing reporter Han Shulin from Wuhan Caijing News.
按计划，约1400名军队医务人员将于2月3日开始承担救治任务。
Some 1,400 military medical personnel are scheduled to begin treatment on February 3.
《财经》记者获悉，2月3日晚8时左右，火神山医院部分先期完成医用设备装配的病房，准备接收运转过来的病人。
At about 8 pm on February 3, Fosen Mountain Hospital partially completed the medical equipment assembly ward, ready to receive the patients, Caijing said.
2月4日上午9点20分左右，救护车队抵达火神山医院，第一批病人已经入住。
At around 9.20 a.m. on 4 February, the ambulance team arrived at Mount Fire Hospital and the first group of patients were admitted.
据央视报道，目前入院病人约50位。
About 50 people are currently hospitalized, CCTV reported.
2月3日下午2点，《财经》记者赶到位于武汉市蔡甸区的火神山医院，看到现场部分区域仍处于建成交付后的设备装配收尾阶段，空调、通风设备等在陆续安装，一些呼吸机、病床等医疗器械摆放在通往火神山的道路旁。
Feb. 3 at 2: 00 p.m., Caijing reporter in Cai Den District, Wuhan City, to see the scene is still part of the completion of the construction and delivery of equipment, air conditioning, ventilation equipment, and other equipment installed in a number of breathing machines, beds and other medical equipment placed on the road to the road.
不过在医院里部分病房内，《财经》记者看到，一些病床已经准备就绪，部分安装好的通风、保温、保湿等设备已经开始运行。
But in some of the hospital wards, Caijing reporter saw that some beds were ready and some of the equipment, including ventilation, heat preservation and moisturizing, was already in operation.
一位现场施工人员告诉《财经》记者，早上他看到有一辆救护车进来，但很快在武警护送下折返。
A site builder told Caijing that he saw an ambulance come in this morning, but he quickly turned back escorted by armed police.
《财经》记者在现场看到两辆救护车，车上未见医护人员和患者。
Caijing reporter saw two ambulances at the scene, the car did not see medical personnel and patients.
“现在还不能送病人进来。
"I can't have the patient in yet.
”一位施工管理人员向《财经》记者解释说，他预计还需要2-3天，火神山医院才能全部完成设备装配并投入使用。
A construction executive explained to Caijing that he expected another two to three days before the facility could be fully equipped and operational.
据悉，旁边的雷神山医院由于建设启动时间略晚，应当会比火神山医院要再多几天，才能完成设备装配并正式启用。
It is reported that next to the Raytheon Hill Hospital due to the start of construction time, should be a few days more than the fire Shenshan Hospital to complete the equipment assembly and official opening.
2月3日下午4点左右，这名管理人员听到消息说，当天可能会有病人送达。
At around 4 p.m. on 3 February, the manager heard reports that patients might arrive on the same day.
截止下午6点，《财经》记者在现场还未看到有病人送达。
By 6 p.m., Caijing had not seen any patients arriving at the scene.
不过《财经》记者看到医院里出现了不少医务人员和武警，在为收治病人做准备工作。
However, "Caijing" reporter saw a lot of medical personnel and armed police in the hospital, in preparation for the admission of patients.
一位医务人员对《财经》记者表示，她也不清楚什么时候开始收治病人。
A medical worker told Caijing she didn't know when to begin treating patients.
两个小时后，2月3日晚上8点左右，《财经》记者获悉，首批病人开始从各定点医院向火神山医院转运。
Two hours later, at around 8 p.m. on February 3, Caijing said the first patients began to be transferred from designated hospitals to Mount Huoshen Hospital.
武汉急救中心派出十辆救护车参与了这次转运行动。
Wuhan Emergency Center sent 10 ambulances to participate in the transit operation.
火神山医院部分率先完成医用设备装配的病房，可以收治运转过来的病人，这意味着医院正式启用了。
Mount Huoshen Hospital is part of the first hospital to complete the medical equipment assembly ward, can receive and treat patients running, which means that the hospital has been officially opened.
晚上10点，火神山医院现场气氛紧张，现场数千名工作人员加快收尾工作严阵以待，一些工作人员开始做病房启用前的最后准备，如清扫路面楼梯、保洁病房等。
At 10 p.m., the atmosphere at the Mount Fukuyama Hospital was tense and thousands of staff on site stepped up their close-out efforts and some staff began to make final preparations for the opening of the wards, such as cleaning the pavement stairs, cleaning the wards, etc.
现场工作人员接到通知称，首批将转运进几十名病人，病人入住后，他们将继续完成收尾的装配工作。
On-site staff were informed that the first transhipment of dozens of patients would take place, after which they would continue to complete the final assembly work.
截至2月3日晚11点20分记者发稿，首批病人尚未入院。
By 11: 20 p.m. on February 3, the first patients had not yet been hospitalized.
据央视新闻频道报道，病人已在路上。
The patient is on his way, CCTV News reported.
《财经》记者在火神山现场了解到，2月3日晚上，救护车在距离火神山10分钟路程时返回，由于病房还未准备完全，调整至2月4日白天开始接收病人。
On the night of Feb. 3, ambulances returned 10 minutes from Mount Huoshen and were readjusted to take in patients on February 4 because the wards were not ready for full treatment, Caijing told China Daily.
根据央视报道，2月4日上午9点20左右，第一批病人已经入院，目前有50位病人在火神山医院集中收治。
According to CCTV, the first patients were admitted to hospital at around 9: 20 a.m. on Feb. 4, and 50 patients are now in intensive care at Mount Huoshen Hospital, CCTV reported.
从1月24日火神山医院相关设计方案完成，到2月2日建成交付，2月4日开始收治病人，武汉火神山医院已经创造了多项新的记录。
The design was completed on January 24, completed on Feb. 2 and delivered to patients on Feb. 4. Wuhan Fosen Mountain Hospital has set new records.
一位来自华为的火神山医院项目工程师告诉《财经》记者，如果说此前的施工速度是步行，紧急的任务是跑步，“那这次就是坐着火箭前进的速度。
An engineer at Huawei's Mount Flamingo Hospital told Caijing that if construction had previously been on foot and the urgent task was running, "it was the speed with the rocket."
”这背后是大量工作人员夜以继日的努力，以及科技进步的结果。
This is the result of the night-time efforts of a large number of workers and scientific and technological progress.
图片由《财经》特派记者刘以秦拍摄火神山医院的重任火神山医院位于武汉市蔡甸区，知音湖旁。
Photo taken by Caijing correspondent Liu Yinshan Hospital fire god mountain hospital located in Wuhan, Cai Den area, close to the lake.
该医院参照2003年抗击非典期间北京小汤山医院模式，在武汉职工疗养院建设一座专门医院，集中收治新型冠状病毒肺炎患者。
Referring to the model of Xiaotangshan Hospital in Beijing during the fight against SARS in 2003, the hospital built a special hospital in Wuhan Staff Sanatorium to concentrate on treating patients with the new coronavirus pneumonia.
医院总建筑面积3.39万平方米，编设床位1000张，开设重症监护病区、重症病区、普通病区，设置感染控制、检验、特诊、放射诊断等辅助科室。
With a total floor area of 33,900 square metres and 1,000 beds, the hospital operates in intensive care, severe and common disease areas, with auxiliary departments for infection control, testing, special consultation and radiological diagnosis.
中建三局发布的公开信息显示，全面施工前，需平整好施工场地东西高差最大达近10米的地面，既有建筑物需要拆除，还有大量清淤工作和鱼塘回填任务。
According to the public information released by the China Construction Bureau, there is a need to level the ground with a maximum height difference of nearly 10 meters between east and west before full construction, with existing buildings to be demolished and a large amount of dredging and backfilling of fish ponds.
然而，整个项目临水而建，周边只有一条主干道路通往工地，物资交通进出压力巨大，燃气、高压迁改协调量较大。
However, the entire project is built on the water side, only a main road to the construction site, material traffic pressure in and out, gas, high pressure relocation coordination.
此次中建三局共派出4000名工人，另外还有不少来自其他建筑工程公司的工人以及当地的居民参与建设。
China Construction sent 4,000 workers in the three innings, as well as workers from other construction companies and local residents.
《财经》记者看到，留在现场做装配收尾的工作人员仍然保持高强度作业，一位现场管理人员透露目前火神山施工现场还有数千名工作人员。
Caijing reporter saw that the staff left at the scene to finish the assembly remained high-intensity operations, a site manager revealed that there are still thousands of workers at the Mount Fire construction site.
上述管理人员称，工人目前两班倒，每班12小时，管理人员休息时间更少，他个人自除夕之后平均每天休息2小时。
According to the above-mentioned manager, workers currently work two shifts of 12 hours per shift, managers have less time off and he has taken an average of two hours off a day since New Year's Eve.
《财经》记者注意到他双眼通红、声音嘶哑到几乎说不出话来。
The Caijing reporter noticed that his eyes were red and his voice hoarse and almost speechless.
华为、联想、新华三等科技设备厂商均是参与了此次火神山医院建设。
Huawei, Lenovo, Xinhua technology equipment manufacturers are involved in the construction of this fire god mountain hospital.
华为派出了100多名工作人员，与运营商合作，帮助搭建医院现场的网络设备。
Huawei dispatched more than 100 staff to work with operators to help build hospital on-site network equipment.
联想派15个员工为医院带去了500台电脑和275台打印机。
Lenovo sent 15 employees to bring 500 computers and 275 printers to the hospital.
前述华为工程师表示，他们遇到最大的困难就是人员调配。
The Huawei engineers said the biggest difficulty they encountered was the deployment of personnel.
火神山开工时，武汉已经封城，武汉周边城镇也有不同程度的封路，一些在农村老家的同事甚至都出不了村。
Wuhan had already been closed when work began on Mount Fire, and towns around Wuhan were blocked to varying degrees, with some colleagues back home in the countryside unable to even leave the village.
要按时完工必须有充足的人手，通过各方协调，华为最终实现人员到达，但也不够用，“我们所有人都是一个人当两个人用，很少有时间能休息，工人们还有配餐，我们只能自己凑合着吃点。
It took a lot of coordination for Huawei to arrive on time, but it wasn't enough. "We were all alone, with very little time for rest, the workers had meals, and we had to feed ourselves.
”联想为火神山医院捐助了500台电脑和275台打印机。
Lenovo donated 500 computers and 275 printers to the Mount Fire Hospital.
一位参与援建的项目主管告诉《财经》记者，临近春节，大部分武汉当地员工已经回家，临时找人确实有点困难，此外，安装电脑和打印机等设备本来很简单，但是在火神山那样时间极其紧、网络环境不完备的环境下，会有许多现实困难。
In the run-up to the Lunar New Year, most of Wuhan's local staff have gone home, and finding temporary help is difficult, a project director involved in the project told Caijing. Besides, installing computers and printers is simple, there are many practical difficulties in the extremely tight timetable and inadequate network environment of Mount Flamingo.
上述联想项目主管透露，整个火神山医院信息化建设的微信群有四十多个，每一分钟都有大量的微信信息涌出，因涉及大量协作工作，让他们不敢遗漏一条信息。
The project director revealed that the entire fire-god mountain hospital information-based construction of the micro-letter group of more than 40, every minute a large number of micro-message flow, because involves a lot of collaborative work, they dare not miss a single piece of information.
实时疫情通报显示，截止2月3日21点，湖北省确诊病例11177人，治愈数295人，新增病例2103人。
The real-time outbreak report showed that as of 21: 00 on February 3, 11,177 cases had been diagnosed, 295 cured and 2,103 new cases had been registered in Hubei Province.
其中武汉市累计确诊5142人，治愈228人，死亡265人。
Of these, 5,142 cases were diagnosed, 228 cured and 265 killed in Wuhan.
武汉市卫健委数据显示，截止2月2日23点，武汉市定点医院共计开放床位7259张，已用7332张，还有131张空床位。
As of 23: 00 on February 2, the Wuhan Ding Hospital had 7,259 beds, 7,332 beds and 131 vacant beds, according to Wuhan Health Commission data.
武汉确诊病例数量还在不断攀升，大量疑似病患住院难的问题越发突出。
Wuhan confirmed the number of cases is still rising, a large number of suspected patients hospitalized the problem is more and more prominent.
一位一线定点医院的医生告诉《财经》记者，火神山和雷神山医院开放使用后，可以有效缓解市区内医院的压力，确诊的重症病人可以立即转院，“我们就可以开放出病床给其他病患。
A doctor at the first-tier designated hospital told Caijing that the opening of the Mount Fire and Lui Shenshan hospitals would effectively relieve the pressure on hospitals in the urban areas.
”据悉，火神山与雷神山医院加起来共有2600张病床。
The total number of beds at Mount Fire and Lei Shenshan Hospital is 2,600, the report said.
但从公开的数据看，湖北省2月2日新增2103名确诊病例，其中武汉新增1033例。
But according to publicly available data, 2,103 new cases were confirmed in Hubei province on February 2, including 1,033 new cases in Wuhan.
外界担心，两家医院启用后是否足够。
There are concerns about the adequacy of the hospitals once opened.
有一位定点医院医生告诉《财经》记者，目前真正重症的患者数量并不是非常多，大部分都还是轻症患者，可以自行在家隔离，或是社区统一安排隔离。
A doctor at a designated hospital told Caijing that the number of patients who are really seriously ill is not very high. Most of them are mild patients who can be isolated at home by themselves or by the community as a whole.
“火神山速度”背后相比2003年非典时期的小汤山，此次建设火神山和雷神山医院，一大亮点是新技术的使用。
"Fire god mountain speed" compared to the 2003 SARS period Xiaotangshan, the construction of fire god mountain and thunder Shenshan hospital, a bright spot is the use of new technology.
对于大部分普通人来说，初次见到火神山的样子，是通过央视的直播，在火神山现场，布置了多个摄像头，实时记录建设现场。
For most ordinary people, the first time to see the image of fire god mountain, through CCTV live, in the fire god scene, the layout of a number of cameras, real-time record of the construction site.
此次火神山医院的现场通讯和网络设备，由多个科技厂商参与建设。
This fire god mountain hospital on-site communication and network equipment, by a number of technology manufacturers involved in the construction.
2月3日上午，华为的一名一线工作人员告诉《财经》记者，他们又新布置了球形摄像头和VR设备，大家可以在手机上360度仔细观看火神山和雷神山的进展，他提到，马上医疗物资会大量抵达两座医院，社会各界也在密切关注和监督物资发放的情况，VR技术可以帮助实现这一需求。
A front-line Huawei official told Caijing on the morning of Feb. 3 that they had newly installed spherical cameras and VR equipment to watch the progress of Mount Fire and Mount Thunder on their mobile phones.
相比17年前的小汤山医院，模块化的、可像积木一样“拼凑”的吊装式箱式板房极大地加快了火神山医院的建设速度，让“10天建起一座医院”成为可能。
Compared with 17 years ago, the modular, block-like hoisting chamber at Xiaotangshan Hospital has greatly speeded up the construction of Mount Huoshen Hospital, making it possible to build a hospital in 10 days.
火神山医院不仅采用了现代化建设技术，同样在建设和运营中使用了大量高科技，包括5G、云计算等。
Huoshen Mountain Hospital not only adopted modern construction technology, but also used a large number of high-tech construction and operation, including 5G, cloud computing, etc.
火神山医院工期十天，实际上留给信息化建设的时间不过4-5天，云计算技术则显著加速了整个建设周期。
The 10-day construction period of Fosen Mountain Hospital actually leaves only 4-5 days for the construction of information technology, and cloud computing has accelerated the whole construction cycle significantly.
例如，火神山医院医院HIS、PACS等核心信息系统是基于中国电信天翼云来部署，因为采用云化部署，中国电信仅用12小时就完成了信息系统建设，而传统模式下最少要十天。
For example, core information systems such as HIS and PACS are based on China Telecom's skywing cloud, which takes China Telecom only 12 hours to build, compared with the traditional 10-day minimum.
上述联想主管也表示，因为使用了智能云桌面技术，仅用了24小时就安装调试完近八百台设备。
The Lenovo chief also said it took just 24 hours to install and debug nearly 800 devices, thanks to smart cloud desktop technology.
5G技术还可用于实现远程智慧医疗和远程会诊。
The 5G technology can also be used for telemedicine and teleconsultation.
对于患者来说，时间就是生命，武汉当地的医疗资源有限，各地方也需要医护人员的留守。
For patients, time is life, Wuhan local medical resources are limited, places also need medical staff to stay.
尤其是大范围的传染性疾病爆发时，这一技术的直接效果是：能够减少接触；让病患尽快接受诊疗；让重症病患尽快接受多位专家会诊。
Particularly in the case of a large-scale outbreak of communicable diseases, the immediate effects of this technology are: reduced exposure; prompt access to care; and prompt multi-specialist consultations for the seriously ill.
在4G时代，远程医疗已经实现，但5G的优势是在多名医生会诊时，保障网络的畅通，华为工程师表示，当下他们已经不会去计较技术的性价比，只关心是否能为患者的救治，尽最大的努力。
In the 4G era, telemedicine had been achieved, but the advantage of the 5G was to keep the network open while doctors consulted. Huawei engineers said they were no longer concerned about the cost-effectiveness of the technology, but only about whether they could cure patients and do their best.
在外部设备上，新技术也无处不在。
On external devices, new technologies are also ubiquitous.
新冠肺炎是呼吸系统疾病，对于空气净化的要求非常高，火神山医院和雷神山医院的病房专门设置了负压系统，将室内脏空气通过特定管道排出。
The new crown pneumonia is a respiratory system disease, the air purification requirements are very high, the fire Shenshan Hospital and Lei Shenshan Hospital wards set up a special negative pressure system, the indoor visceral air through a specific pipe.
由于对空气质量要求非常高，空调设备也需要避免污染，此次火神山和雷神山的建设中，美的和格力各捐献了1000台和1605台空调，两家公司的相关负责人告诉《财经》记者，此次捐献的空调，都是配备了新技术的新风空调，可以有效排出污浊空气，避免空气污染。
Because air quality is very demanding and air-conditioners need to avoid pollution, Mei and Geli each donated 1,000 and 1,605 air conditioners each during the construction of Mount Fire and Mt. Thunder. The officials told Caijing that the air conditioners donated were new air conditioners equipped with new technology to effectively vent polluted air and avoid air pollution.
普渡科技创始人、CEO 张涛告诉《财经》记者，他们也已经对接上了火神山和雷神山，计划提供医用送餐机器人，预计两家医用各会使用50台。
Zhang Tao, founder and CEO of Purdue Technology, told Caijing that they, too, had plans to provide medical delivery robots to Mount Fire and Mount Raytheon, with 50 expected for each of the two medical facilities.
普渡的机器人可以在医院和隔离区提供免接触送餐技术，减少传染可能性。
Purdue's robots can offer contact-free meals in hospitals and isolation areas, reducing the likelihood of infection.
产品手册介绍显示，应用了自主开发的SLAM（即时定位与地图构建）技术，可以实现厘米级实时定位、高精度地图构建、最优路径规划和瞬时智能避障功能，此外针对多机协作，应用了自主研发的分布式调度系统。
The product manual introduces the application of SLAM (Real-time Positioning and Map Construction) technology, which enables real-time centimetre-level positioning, high-precision map construction, optimal path planning and instantaneous intelligent obstacle avoidance. In addition, a distributed scheduling system developed by ourselves is used for multi-machine collaboration.
机器人电池四小时可以充满，通过换电可以实现连续不间断运行。
Robot batteries can be filled up to four hours and can run continuously and continuously through a power switch.
火神山医院的选址靠近知音湖，且武汉地下水系丰富，临时医院的建设是否会导致污染，是许多武汉市民关心的问题。
The site of Huoshen Mountain Hospital is close to Boyin Lake, and Wuhan is rich in underground water system.
武汉一家有环保领域设计经验的设计院人士对《财经》分析，在进行医院设计时，需要考虑雨污分流：一是医疗废水，需要经过成套装置杀菌消毒，然后进入城市下水系统，最终进入污水处理厂处理；另一部分是渗滤液，如雨水带走医院内病菌，还有运输医疗垃圾途中可能产生的渗透液。
In Wuhan, a designer with experience in the field of environmental protection has analyzed Caijing. When designing a hospital, we need to consider the shunt of rain and pollution. One is medical waste water, which needs to be sterilized by a complete set of equipment before entering the city's sewage system and finally entering a sewage treatment plant.
通常，前一种废水是可通过医院集中收集，进入前端污水处理设备，经过物理格栅、生化处理达标排放后，排入临近污水处理厂处理。
Usually, the former kind of wastewater can be collected centrally through hospitals, enter the front-end sewage treatment equipment, after physical grating, biochemical treatment meet the standard discharge, discharged into the nearby sewage treatment plant for treatment.
而后一种渗透液的风险需要做好防渗透处理，一般需要在施工过程中铺上防渗膜隔绝地表水向地下的渗透和污染，避免对临近水体以及地下水造成污染。
The risk of the latter type of osmosis fluid needs to be well impermeable, which usually needs to be covered with impermeable film to prevent surface water from seepage and pollution to the ground, and avoid pollution to the adjacent water body and groundwater.
中建三局参与项目的相关人士对《财经》记者表示，医院的废水将处理后排放到市政管网，在防渗透方面，一是管道下方铺设有两层防渗透膜，二是项目所在地的板房下方也都满铺了防渗透膜。
People involved in the Caijing project told Caijing that the waste water from the hospital would be discharged into the municipal network. In terms of impermeability, two layers of impermeable film would be laid under the pipe and impermeable film would be covered under the panels at the project site, the spokesman told Caijing.
该人士还表示，中建三局此前已有丰富的医院项目建设施工经验，武汉当地的汉口同济医院、光谷同济医院、武汉亚洲心脏医院等知名医院都是由中建三局施工建设，因此熟悉相关的施工标准。
The person also said China Construction Bureau had rich experience in the construction of hospital projects, Wuhan local Hankou Tongji Hospital, Guanggu Tongji Hospital, Wuhan Asian Heart Hospital and other well-known hospitals are built by the three bureaus and are familiar with the relevant construction standards.
《湖北日报》旗下荆楚网1月26日报道称，火神山医院在土地平整之后铺设了铺设两布一膜——两层土工布及一层HDPE防渗膜，然后再铺设20公分砂子，具有较强的防渗作用。
Hubei Daily reported on the 26 January, after the formation of the fire god mountain hospital laid a two-layer geotextile and a layer of HDPE impermeable film, then laid 20 cm sand, with a strong anti-seepage effect.
在废水处理方面，由中建三局绿投公司组织相关专家设计，废水经三级液氯消毒后泵送市政管网。
In terms of wastewater treatment, the Green Investment Company of China Construction Bureau organized relevant experts to design the wastewater to be pumped to the municipal network after disinfection with three levels of liquid chlorine.
整个基地下方按垃圾填埋场标准铺设防渗膜，雨水全收集全消毒。
The entire base below the landfill standards laid in accordance with the anti-seepage film, rainwater collection and total disinfection.
2月2日晚7点半，火神山交接仪式已经完成，武汉籍的华为工程师离开现场，返回市区休整。
February 2 evening, 7: 30, the handover ceremony has been completed, Wuhan-based Huawei engineers left the scene, returned to the city to rest.
他告诉妻子，可以看火神山的VR直播了，“这是我们为武汉人民做的。
He told his wife that he could watch the VR live from Mount Fire. "This is what we did for the people of Wuhan.
”他说。
'he said.
建筑工人在完工后会陆续撤出，但技术工程师们的后续任务更重，他们要保证在医院的整个使用期间，设备一直保持顺畅。
Construction workers will be withdrawn after completion, but the technical engineers will have a much heavier task of ensuring that the equipment remains smooth throughout the life of the hospital.
（《财经》记者周源亦有贡献）声明：本文为《财经》与腾讯新闻独家合作内容，谢绝转载新型冠状病毒疫情系列报道▷ 点击图片查看责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
This article is an original article by Caijing magazine and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization. This article is an original article by Caijing magazine. It is not allowed to reproduce or mirror images without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
直击火神山医院：首批病人已经入院，现场忙碌装配收尾。
Go straight to Fosen Mountain Hospital: The first patients have been admitted to the hospital, the scene busy assembly finishing.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "直击火神山医院：首批病人已经入院，现场忙碌装配收尾";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "因抗击疫情而诞生的武汉火神山医院，创下建设速度和科技装备的历史之最。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Wuhan's Huoshen Mountain Hospital, born as a result of the fight against the epidemic, has the longest history of construction speed and technological equipment.
2月4日上午，率先启用的部分病房正式接收了第一批病人。
On the morning of February 4, the first patients were officially admitted to some of the first wards opened.
《财经》记者2月3日下午在现场看到，负责收尾的数千名工作人员仍保持高强度作业，完成最后的设备装配";。
"Caijing" saw at the scene on the afternoon of February 3 that the thousands of employees who were closing down were still working at full steam to complete the final fitting and quotation;;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
