穿越疫区：武汉“爱心司机”一天12小时。
Across the epidemic area: Wuhan "love drivers" 12 hours a day.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 财经十一人。
The following article comes from eleven financial experts.
Author 刘以秦。
Author Liu Iqin.
财经十一人。
Eleven finance and economics.
由《财经》杂志公司产业报道团队创建，研讨企业成败，探究行业兴衰，推动阳光商业。
Founded by Caijing magazine's industry report team, it explores the success or failure of enterprises, probes into the ups and downs of the industry, and promotes sunshine business.
武汉春寒料峭，疫情仍在蔓延。
Wuhan chilly spring, the epidemic is still spreading.
但也因为抗击疫情，本不相识的司机和医生之间，达到了前所未有的默契。
But because of the fight against the epidemic, there has been an unprecedented rapport between unknown drivers and doctors.
“谢谢”和“加油”，是他们每次相遇和分开的标记文 |《财经》特派武汉记者刘以秦编辑 | 谢丽容图1: 在路上的爱心司机 刘以秦/摄2月2日早上6点，武汉还笼罩在晨曦中，杜川已经准备出发。
"Thanks" and "refueling" are the marks of every time they meet and part; Wuhan correspondent Liu Yicheng photo 1: The loving driver on the road, Liu Eqin / Shen Feb 2, at 6: 00 a.m., Wuhan is still shrouded in early morning light.
他是一名滴滴专车司机，今天的第一个“订单”，是要送一名医生去上班。
He was a drip-drip driver, and today's first "order" was to send a doctor to work.
杜川在滴滴平台上接的最后一个日常订单，是1月24日晚上，一位医生下班回家叫的车。
The last daily order Tucson took on the drip-drop platform was a doctor returning home from work on the night of January 24.
这位医生乘客告诉他，主要的交通出行工具都停了，最难的就是他们，居民们可以继续休假，或在家隔离，医护人员必须天天到岗，轮番值班。
He was told by the doctor that the main means of transport had stopped and that the hardest part was they, that residents could continue to take vacations or stay at home, and that medical staff had to be on duty every day.
医生预约的出发时间是早上7点半，杜川7点就赶到了社区服务中心门口，他还需要给车辆进行全面消毒，然后拍照、打卡。
At 7: 30 a.m., Duchuan arrived at the gate of the community service center. He also needed to disinfect the vehicles thoroughly, then take photos and punch cards.
1月23日，武汉禁止私家车出行；1月24日，滴滴平台在武汉暂停出行服务；1月25日，滴滴召集1336名网约车司机，组建“社区保障车队”，交由社区统一调配。
On January 23, private cars were banned in Wuhan, while on January 24, drip-drip platforms suspended travel services in Wuhan. On January 25, 1,336 drivers were summoned by drip-dripping to form "community-guaranteed convoys," to be unified by the community.
同时，滴滴组织200多名司机，成立“医疗保障车队”，专门提供医护人员出行服务。
At the same time, drip organization more than 200 drivers, set up a "medical care team," dedicated to providing medical staff travel services.
杜川是最早加入社区保障车队的“爱心司机”。
Du Chuan was one of the first "loving drivers" to join the community safety team.
他是武汉本地人，当过兵，退伍后给一位企业老板当司机。
He was a native of Wuhan, had served as a soldier, retired to a business owner as a driver.
后来企业倒闭，他就做了滴滴的专车司机。
When the business failed, he became a drip-drip driver.
交通是一座城市的血脉，负责连接城市的每个角落。
Transportation is the lifeblood of a city, connecting every corner of the city.
根据公开数据，截止2019年底，中国汽车保有量2.6亿辆，30个城市的汽车保有量超过200万辆，武汉也是其中之一，约300万辆。
By the end of 2019, China had 260 million cars, with more than 2 million cars in 30 cities, including Wuhan, with about 3 million, according to open data.
武汉还有10条地铁线路以及超过400条公交线路，还有极具城市特色的过江轮渡。
Wuhan also has 10 subway lines and more than 400 bus lines, as well as the urban characteristics of the ferry crossing.
不过，在疫情全面爆发后，武汉这些城市纽带纷纷暂停。
However, after the outbreak of the epidemic in Wuhan, these urban ties have been suspended.
像杜川一样的上千名“爱心司机”，重新接过了支撑武汉这个超级城市维持基本运转的接力棒，为武汉抗击疫情提供最基础的保障。
Thousands of "loving drivers," like Duchuan, have taken over the baton that sustains the basic operation of Wuhan, providing the most basic guarantee against the epidemic.
他们不计回报，以身犯险，希望能为疫情好转贡献一些个人力量，当然也并不是没有回报。
They are risking their lives in return, hoping to contribute some personal strength to the improvement of the epidemic, which is not without rewards.
2月2日这一天，《财经》记者在武汉跟踪报道，杜川收到最多的一句话就是：“谢谢，辛苦了。
Feb. 2, "Caijing" reporters in Wuhan tracking report, Du Chuan received the most words is: "Thank you, hard.
”图2:司机杜川正在做车辆的消毒通风工作 刘以秦/摄2月2日早上7点30分：都是好消息今天的第一站是中部战区总医院汉口院区，杜川送一名医生去上班。
Photo 2: Driver Du Chuan is doing the disinfection and ventilation of the vehicles Liu Eqin / She February 2 7: 30 a.m. Both are good news The first stop today was Hankou District of the Central Theatre General Hospital, where Duchuan sent a doctor to work.
这位医生第一次使用社区保障车队的服务，此前由于交通管制，他只能找同事帮忙接送。
For the first time, the doctor used the services of a community-guaranteed convoy, after he had to seek help from a co-worker because of traffic control.
平日里，这个时间是武汉的早高峰，但今天的武汉，路上行驶的车辆少得可怜，一路畅通无阻。
On weekdays, this time is Wuhan's early peak, but today's Wuhan, the road traffic is pathetic, all the way unimpeded.
医生乘客并不在一线，在二线待命，准备随时上战场。
Doctor passengers are not in the front line, on the second line stand by, ready to go to the battlefield.
他告诉《财经》记者，医院的物资非常紧张，他们作为二线医务人员，使用的都是一些简易防护装备，专业的物资都省下来留给一线的同事们。
He told Caijing that the hospital was stretched thin, that as second-line medical staff, they were using some sort of improvised protective equipment, and that professional supplies were saved for frontline colleagues.
医生还来带一个好消息，他了解到的数据是，目前武汉市新冠肺炎的重症患者数量并不多，他在几天前了解到的数据大约是500-600位，大部分患者还属于轻症，最新的数据还未拿到。
The doctor also came with the good news that the number of serious cases of pneumonia in Wuhan is small. He learned about 500-600 cases a few days ago. Most of the cases are mild and the latest data are not yet available.
送达目的地后，杜川希望在滴滴的平台上再接订单。
After reaching his destination, Duchuan hopes to pick up the order on a drip-by-drop platform.
滴滴在App中上线了一个新功能，一线医院的医护人员开放了在滴滴上叫车的权限。
Droplets went up a new feature in the App, and first-line hospital paramedics opened drip-drip access to the car.
不过一直没有新订单出现，杜川说，早班的医生都很早去上班，这个点应该都已经到医院了，“只要是医护人员发的订单，都会被立刻抢走，大家都特别积极。
But no new orders showed up, he said, adding that the early-morning doctors were at work early enough to be at the hospital. "Any orders from paramedics would be immediately taken away, and everyone was particularly active.
”他选择返回社区，在社区门口他发现了意外惊喜——一家早餐店开门营业了。
He chose to return to his community, where he was surprised to find a breakfast shop open.
杜川停好车，买了一份武汉人最爱的本地小吃“热干面”，并在他司机工作群里通知大家，可以出来吃热干面了。
Duchuan stopped the car, bought a local Wuhan favorite snacks "hot dry noodles", and in his driver's work group, can eat hot and dry noodles.
他快速吃完，“吃了10天的方便面了，吃一碗热干面太舒服了。
He ate it quickly. "Ten days of instant noodles, and a bowl of hot, dry noodles is too comfortable.
”杜川已经很久没有好好吃一顿饭了。
"Du Chuan had not had a good meal for a long time.
过年前，他的老婆孩子就先回了老家黄陂，他想再拉几天活再回去，没想到等来的是武汉封城的消息。
Before the New Year, his wife and children went back to his hometown Huangpi, he wanted to pull a few days live to go back, did not expect the news that Wuhan closed.
除夕夜，他一个人在家吃的年夜饭，吃的都是咸鱼、酱牛肉等半成品，后来加入社区车队后，每天主要食物供应就是方便面。
On New Year's Eve, he ate his own New Year's Eve meals, salt fish, beef and other semi-finished products, and later joined the community convoy, the main daily food supply is instant noodles.
图3:杜川正在社区服务中心登记签到，领取需求 刘以秦/摄难得这么早结束，杜川回到社区服务中心。
Figure 3: Duchuan is registered at the community service center, to receive demand Liu Eqin / Shen rare so early end, Duchuan back to the community service center.
社区工作人员请他去街道处领取物资，是用于疫情指导工作的横幅，他立刻赶过去，又收获了第二个好消息。
When community workers asked him to collect supplies from the street, a banner used to guide the epidemic, he hurried over and got a second piece of good news.
街道处的工作人员告诉他，今天刚刚到了一批蔬菜和医疗物资，包括口罩，消毒液等，他可以现在就签字领走。
Street officials told him he had just arrived today with vegetables and medical supplies, including masks and disinfectant, which he could sign off now.
杜川很高兴，立刻开车进去搬运物资。
Du Chuan was so happy that he immediately drove in to carry supplies.
医疗物资的定量的，每种三箱，蔬菜则是“随便拿，能装上都运走”，一大包大白菜有12颗，加起来至少有60斤，杜川搬的有些费劲，一会儿工夫，他的防护服里都是水汽。
There were twelve cabbages of cabbage, which added up to at least 60 catties. Duchuan moved with some difficulty, and in a few moments his suit was covered with steam.
回到社区，社区工作人员给杜川发了一批新的物资，包括口罩和消毒酒精。
Back in the community, community workers distributed a new batch of supplies to Duchuan, including masks and disinfectant alcohol.
这些曾经都是价格便宜的常见物资，今天变成了抢手货。
These used to be cheap, but today they are in demand.
由于没有专用分装瓶，消毒酒精都装在矿泉水瓶里，杜川提醒其他爱心司机，“不要弄混了当成矿泉水，回头变成酒驾了。
As there was no separate bottle, the disinfectant alcohol was packed in a mineral water bottle, and Duchuan warned other loving drivers, "Don't confuse it for mineral water and turn back into an alcoholic.
”上午9点，另一名爱心司机前往街道处领取剩余的物资，赶到时，现场已经排满了各个社区来的车辆，由于等待时间较长，现场发生了争执。
At 9 a.m., another loving driver went down the street to pick up the rest of the supplies and arrived with cars from the various communities lining the scene, where a dispute arose because of the long waiting time.
有人大声抱怨领取流程混乱，因为不知道是要先车排队还是人排队，排了队又被告知没有还没有签名。
Some people complained loudly about the messy collection process because they didn't know whether to queue up first or stand in line, and were told there was no sign yet.
工作人员也很无奈，只好不停的道歉，“大家情绪都不好，相互理解一下可以吗？”这位爱心司机是湖北襄阳人，之前自己做生意，生意失败后选择做滴滴司机，他告诉《财经》记者，感觉现在武汉和以前没有什么变化，“现实情况其实没有大家说的那么可怕，就是每天喷消毒水，车子的座椅都有点被腐蚀了。
He told Caijing that Wuhan was not the same as before, "the reality is not as terrible as everyone said, the car seat is a bit corroded.
”图4:领取街道处的物资 刘以秦/摄2月2日上午9点20分：着急的病人乐观并不能掩盖今天武汉社区已经大变样的事实。
Photo 4: Getting Material for the Streets Liu Eqin / She February 2 9: 20 a.m.: The patient in a hurry is not optimistic enough to cover up the fact that the Wuhan community has changed a lot today.
9点20分左右，杜川返回社区，看到几名发热病人来到社区服务中心，要求社区派车送去医院就诊，但是社区保障车队并不具备运送发热病人的防护能力。
At around 9.20 a.m., Ducuan returned to his community and saw several febrile patients come to the community service centre and ask the community to send a car to the hospital, but the community-guaranteed fleet did not have the protection to transport febrile patients.
这些司机自1月25日至今，只有一件简易防护服，一直没更换过。
Since 25 January, the drivers have had only one piece of improvised protective clothing, which has not been replaced.
病人很委屈，已经发烧多日，但无法去医院，他们表示如果今天不能送去医院，就坐在社区办公室不走了。
The patients, aggrieved and feverish for days, were unable to reach the hospital and said they would sit in the community office if they could not be taken to the hospital today.
社区工作人员帮忙拨打120，被告知目前所有120急救车都已经派出去了，随后又拨打110，110询问具体情况后表示，他们也很忙，暂时抽不出时间过来。
Community workers helped call 120 and were told that all 120 ambulances had already been dispatched, and then dialed 110, 110 for details, saying that they too were too busy to make time to come.
社区工作人员只能好言相劝，告诉病人已经登记并会马上上报，有消息了会第一时间通知，病人最终选择了回家。
Community workers can only be kind enough to tell the patient has been registered and will immediately report that the news will be the first notice, the patient finally chose to go home.
社区工作人员告诉《财经》记者，每天都有这样的情况发生，他们每天会接到100多个居民求助电话，要求就诊，但是“我们确实没有办法，也没有能力。
Community workers told Caijing that it happens every day that more than 100 residents call for help every day, but "we really don't have the means, we don't have the capacity.
”图5:社区工作人员正在整理每天的通车需求 刘以秦/摄一位社区工作人员拿出两只3M口罩送给《财经》记者，“一定要拿，不能一个口罩戴一天！”但记者发现，他们自己戴的还是普通的医用口罩。
"Photo 5: Community workers are sorting through daily traffic demands." A community worker presented two 3M masks to Caijing, saying, "Be sure you don't wear one for a day!" But reporters found they were wearing ordinary medical masks.
因为一些物资不足，他们的口罩其实很紧缺。
Their masks are in short supply because of a shortage of supplies.
而且，社区人来人往，还时不时有发热病人来，做好防护工作，对他们来说同样重要。
What's more, it's just as important for them that the community comes and goes and gets feverish patients from time to time to do protective work.
疫情发生后，人们的注意力集中在新冠肺炎上，大量医院都开设发热门诊，或是将病房改造成隔离病房，提供给不断上升的感染病人。
Since the outbreak, attention has focused on new cases of pneumonia, with a large number of hospitals offering fever clinics or transforming wards into isolation wards for the rising number of infected patients.
但在社区还有大量其他病患，他们也需要去医院就诊，或是做例行的治疗、检查，当一切医疗资源都向新冠肺炎倾斜时，他们的看病难问题，鲜少有人关注。
But there are a large number of other patients in the community who also need to go to the hospital or undergo routine treatment and examination. When all the medical resources are tilted towards pneumonia, little attention is paid to their medical problems.
爱心司机们每天最主要的工作之一，就是接送社区内去医院做透析的病人。
One of the main tasks of loving drivers every day is to transport patients to hospital for dialysis in the community.
做一次透析需要4个小时。
It takes four hours for a dialysis.
有时需要很早出发，去医院占透析的设备；有时会等到很晚，到半夜12点、1点才能结束。
Sometimes it was necessary to leave early to take up dialysis equipment at the hospital; sometimes it was very late and ended at 12 or 1 in the morning.
杜川的住处离社区最近，他也是社区车队的小队长，有一些苦活累活他会尽量自己解决，例如早上6点和晚上12点后需要用车的，尽量自己来。
Tucson, who lives closest to the community and is the captain of a community motorcade, has some hard work to do for himself. If he needs a car after 6am and 12pm, try to do it yourself.
其他司机也挺佩服他，“队长不容易，既要干活，还要组织协调我们，有什么事他都冲在第一个。
"The other drivers admired him too." It wasn't easy to be captain. He had to work and coordinate with us and he was first in everything.
”一位司机开玩笑说，“不愧是领导啊！”上午10点50，社区工作人员整理好要配送给居民的物资，送去附近的一个小区，杜川接到任务，立刻出发。
At 10: 50 a.m., community workers packed up supplies for distribution to residents and sent them to a nearby community.
这个小区是商住房，小区环境相对复杂，一层楼就有几十户，杜川找了很久，提前电话联系居民，其中一位居民的具体地址他绕了两圈也没能找到，对方表示可以下楼来拿。
The residential area is a commercial housing, the environment is relatively complex, a floor on the dozens of families, Duchuan looked for a long time, ahead of the call to contact residents, one of the residents specific address he did not find twice round, the other said can come downstairs to pick up.
另外两位居民目前都不在家中，希望杜川可以将物资放在物业的办公室。
The other two residents are currently out of the house, hoping Mr. Duchuan will be able to keep supplies in the property's office.
图6一些居民楼地形复杂，一层有几十家住户 刘以秦/摄但是物业并不愿意接收，特殊时期，所有人都希望减少与外界的接触。
Fig. 6 Some residential buildings complex topography, a layer of dozens of households Liu Yiqin / photography but property is not willing to accept, special period, everyone wants to reduce contact with the outside world.
物业的工作人员态度不太好，提出必须住户自己接收，杜川在物业处等了十几分钟，才将物资送到住户手里。
Property staff attitude is not good, proposed that the residents must receive their own, Duchuan waiting at the property for 10 minutes before the goods were delivered to the occupants.
这让杜川觉得有些无奈，但他可以理解。
This makes Du Chuan feel a little helpless, but he can understand.
他叮嘱《财经》记者，一定不要触碰任何小区内的东西，包括门把手、电梯按键，与住户要保持具距离。
He told Caijing not to touch anything in the area, including doorknobs, elevator keys, and keep a distance from residents.
他用脚开门，用车钥匙按电梯，所有物资都放在门口，让居民自己开门出来拿。
He opened the door with his feet, pressed the elevator with his car keys, and left everything at the door, letting the residents open the doors and fetch them.
回到车里，杜川给自己做了个简单的消毒。
Back in the car, Tucson gave himself a simple disinfection.
外面下起小雨，气温开始下降。
It began to rain outside and the temperature began to fall.
他说，可以回去吃午饭了。
He said it was time to go back to lunch.
图7: 杜川上门配送给居民 刘以秦/摄2月2日下午2点：源源不断的求助社区的一间简易的休息室里，随意摆放了一些桌椅，没有空调和暖气，外面还在下雨，气温越来越低，这是司机们吃午饭的地方。
Photo 7: Duchuan delivered to residents Liu Eqin / 2 Feb. 2 at 2: 00pm: An endless supply of help community in a simple lounge, a random number of tables and chairs, no air conditioning and heating, outside is still raining, the temperature is getting lower, this is the driver lunch place.
对于午饭，也并不是完全没有选择——吃辣的还是不辣的？武汉人杜川自然要选择辣的，“天气这么冷，一碗辣的泡面刚刚好。
For lunch, is not completely no choice - eat spicy or not spicy? Wuhan people naturally want to choose spicy, "the weather is so cold, a bowl of hot noodles just good.
”午饭期间，司机师傅们坐在一起交流对疫情的感受，包括听到的各种传闻。
During lunch, the drivers sat down together to share their feelings about the outbreak, including anecdotes.
襄阳籍的司机说，现在对武汉也有了感情，希望武汉赶快好起来。
Xiangyang said that the driver of Wuhan now also have feelings, hope Wuhan as soon as possible to get better.
另一位司机感叹道，现在感觉不戴口罩的日子太幸福了，“哪一天不用戴口罩了，就心满意足了。
Another driver lamented that he felt too happy to be wearing a mask now. "You won't have to wear one any more.
”午饭后，他们会在车里稍作休息，吃饭的地方四面漏风，太冷；社区办公室里人多，他们穿着防护服怕居民恐慌。
After lunch, they take a break in the car, where the food is leaking and cold on all sides, and the community offices are crowded with people who wear protective clothing for fear of panic.
但是在车里也不敢睡觉，温度太低，怕感冒。
But I dare not sleep in the car, the temperature is too low, afraid of catching cold.
图8:爱心司机的午餐时间 刘以秦/摄杜川在午休时间会持续关注各种车辆调度信息，如果暂时没有安排，他会打一把“吃鸡”，放松一下。
Figure 8: Loving Drivers Lunch Hours LiuYin / Mengduchuan will continue to pay attention to all kinds of traffic dispatching information during lunch break. If there is no arrangement for the time being, he will play "eat chicken" and relax.
但对面的社区工作人员还不能午休，各路求助电话源源不断的进来，一位80岁的空巢老人打电话来，说已经烧到38度，没能做核酸检测，要求社区派车去送。
But community workers across the street couldn't take a lunch break, and calls poured in from an 80-year-old empty nest who called to say it was 38 degrees, failed to get a nucleic acid test and asked the community to send a car.
社区工作人员希望老人提供子女的联系方式，来协助处理，但老人拒绝提供，也不说是为什么。
The community workers wanted the elderly to provide their children's contact information to assist in the process, but the old man refused to do so, and did not say why.
没一会儿，社区里又进来一位年轻女性，她希望预约明天的用车，她的妹妹在协和医院当护士，想煲一碗汤送过去，虽然医院都有工作餐，但她担心妹妹营养跟不上。
Before long, a young woman from the community came in hoping to book a car for tomorrow. Her sister worked as a nurse at Concorde Hospital, trying to cook a bowl of soup.
社区人员表示，偶尔送几次可以，但是不能天天送，因为司机和车辆资源有限，不要浪费。
Community personnel indicated that occasional deliveries were possible, but not on a daily basis, as drivers and vehicle resources were limited and should not be wasted.
这句话让年轻女士立刻崩溃，“怎么能说是浪费！我妹妹在一线，你知不知道她们有多辛苦！”社区人员告诉《财经》记者，他们也很难办，事情确实太多，像这些还都是合理的需求，可以尽量满足，还有一些他们都不知道如何回应。
"How could it be a waste! My sister is on the line and you don't know how hard they work," the community told Caijing. "There's a lot of stuff, it's a legitimate need to be satisfied, and there's something they don't know how to respond to."
例如，有住户打电话来，要求工作人员上门喂狗喂猫，还有住户要求立刻送一节5号电池上门。
For example, one household called and asked the staff to feed the cat to the dog, and another asked for a battery No. 5 to be delivered immediately.
前两天，一名住户进来，想领取口罩，工作人员免费给了他一些医用口罩，他转头就投诉称，社区提供劣质口罩。
Two days ago, a resident came in to get a mask and was given some medical masks free of charge. He turned around and complained that the community was supplying shoddy masks.
“我们自己都是用这个口罩，怎么就是劣质口罩了。
"We all use this mask ourselves. How come it's a bad mask?
”一位社区工作人员委屈的说道。
"said one community worker, aggrieved.
2月2日下午4点半：晚班的医护人员出发了今天是星期天，“封城”之后，星期几已经显得不那么重要，去医院做透析的病人明显少了许多。
February 2, 4: 30 p.m.: night shift medical personnel set out Today is Sunday, "closed" after the weeks have become less important, hospital dialysis patients significantly fewer.
对于在一线的医护人员来说，依然是继续战斗的一天。
It is still a day of continued fighting for medical staff on the ground.
下午4点半，一名护士乘车前往梨园医院，梨园医院是湖北省老年病医院，现在也是发热定点医院之一。
At 4: 30 p.m., a nurse drove to Lei Yuan Hospital, which is a geriatric hospital in Hubei Province.
这位护士已经连续几天都预约使用社区保障车，她觉得很开心，封城的最初几天她只能骑共享单车上班，虽然梨园医院距离小区大约4.5公里，冬天气温低，如果遇到下雨天，还是很麻烦。
The nurse, who has been booking community support cars for days on end, is happy to be able to ride her bike to work during the first few days of the city's closure.
今天是晚班，她就在隔离病房工作，梨园医院已经收治了几十名确诊新冠肺炎的患者，院长也已经被确诊感染住院了。
Today is the evening shift, she works in the isolation ward, pear yuan hospital has admitted dozens of patients diagnosed with pneumonia, the dean has been confirmed to be in hospital.
她告诉《财经》记者，目前病房已经全部住满，但是每天还是有大量的发热病人来门诊挂号看病，“大部分病人都挂不到号。
She told Caijing that the ward was now fully occupied, but there were still a lot of feverish patients coming to the clinic every day.
”梨园医院的物资情况同样紧张，护士乘客提到，一次值班时间是8小时，按照规定，4小时就需要更换一次防护服，但是现实做不到，她们只能坚持一套装备8小时。
The material situation at the Pear Garden Hospital was equally critical, with nurse passengers mentioning that they were on duty for eight hours at a time and were required to change their suits for four hours, but the reality was that they could only keep one set of equipment for eight hours.
由于病房紧张，本来应该应该一名病患一间病房，便于隔离，但现在也只能2-3名病患一间病房。
Due to the tight ward, it should have been a patient room for isolation, but now there are only 2-3 patients in one room.
《财经》记者了解到，一些定点医院已经收治6名病患一间病房。
Caijing reporter learned that some designated hospitals have admitted six patients to a ward.
“只能是让病患24小时戴好口罩，”护士乘客说道，“但好消息是，我们正在加紧改造其他几个病区，争取可以开放更多床位出来。
"It's only a matter of getting patients to wear masks 24 hours a day," the nurse said. "But the good news is that we are working on several other areas to open up more beds.
”护士下车离开，送这一趟的司机师傅感叹，“我们接送了很多护士，都是年轻的小姑娘，都在一线，真的不容易。
"The nurse got out and left, sighing at the driver." We picked up a lot of nurses, all young girls, on the front line, and it wasn't easy.
”下午6点，杜川要接送一名病人去医院做透析，结束的时间是晚上11点30分，将病人送到医院后，他返回家中，给自己做了顿饭，休息了一会儿。
"At 6 p.m. Du had to take a patient to a hospital for dialysis, which ended at 11.30 p.m., and when he had taken the patient to the hospital, he returned home, cooked himself a meal and had a rest.
11点，他重新穿上防护服，戴好口罩和护目镜，出发去医院接病人回家，一天的工作终于接近尾声。
At 11 o'clock he put on his suit again, put on his mask and goggles, and set off for the hospital to pick up the sick. The day's work was at an end.
回到家中，他还需要给防护服做全面的消毒工作，这件防护服已经使用9天，布满皱褶，但在没有新物资到达之前，它还需要陪伴他穿越疫区，护送下一位乘客和下一批物资。
Back home, he also needed to thoroughly disinfect his suit, which had been wrinkled for nine days, but needed to accompany him through the affected area to escort the next passenger and supplies until new supplies arrived.
新冠肺炎疫情还在持续，所有人的目光都注目着武汉。
The outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia continues, and all eyes are on Wuhan.
像杜川这样的爱心司机数量越来越多，不光有滴滴、首汽这样的公司在组织，民间自发组织的志愿者团队规模也越来越庞大。
The number of loving drivers like Ducuan is increasing. Not only are companies such as drip-drip and FAW organizing, but also the volunteer corps organized by the people themselves is getting bigger and bigger.
杜川说，真正在一线的是那些医护人员，他们才是最辛苦的，“我们能做的就是做好自己，不去抱怨。
'On the ground, it's the healthcare professionals who are the hardest, 'he said.' All we can do is be ourselves and not complain.
”武汉春寒料峭，疫情仍在蔓延。
Wuhan is freezing cold and the epidemic is still spreading.
但也因为抗击疫情，本不相识的司机和医生之间，达到了前所未有的默契。
But because of the fight against the epidemic, there has been an unprecedented rapport between unknown drivers and doctors.
“谢谢”和“加油”，是他们每次相遇和分开的标记。
"Thanks" and "refueling" are the marks of each time they meet and part.
新型冠状病毒疫情系列报道▷ 点击图片查看责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
A new coronavirus series of reports Please click on picture to see Invest & # 44; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
穿越疫区：武汉“爱心司机”一天12小时。
Across the epidemic area: Wuhan "love drivers" 12 hours a day.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "穿越疫区：武汉“爱心司机”一天12小时";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; across & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; Wuhan's Loving Drivers.
var msg_desc = "武汉春寒料峭，疫情仍在蔓延。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Wuhan is freezing cold and the epidemic is still spreading.
但也因为抗击疫情，本不相识的司机和医生之间，达到了前所未有的默契。
But because of the fight against the epidemic, there has been an unprecedented rapport between unknown drivers and doctors.
“谢谢”和“加油”，是他们每次相遇和分开的标记";。
"Thanks" and "refueling," the mark and phrase that every time they met and parted.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
