黄冈确诊病例过千，市长称防控不力，曾一天问责135人。
Huanggang confirmed more than a thousand cases, the mayor said the control is weak, one day accountability 135 people.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 财经E法。
The following article comes from the financial E method.
Author 黄姝静 姚佳莹。
Yao Jia Ying NINETY Huang NINETY.
财经E法。
Financial E-Law.
财经E法是脱胎于《财经》杂志的原创内容品牌，我们关注互联网行业中的法治、治理和伦理话题。
Finance E is an original content brand created by Caijing magazine. We focus on the rule of law, governance and ethics in the Internet industry.
。
.
黄冈是湖北省第二个确诊病例过千的城市，黄冈市长公开承认在应对疫情方面准备不充分、防控措施不严、部分干部作风不实文 |《财经》记者 黄姝静 姚佳莹编辑 |鲁伟黄冈是湖北省内疫情严重程度仅次于武汉的城市，截至2020年2月2日24时，黄冈确诊新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎病例为1246例，治愈出院17例，死亡17例。
Huang Gang, the second city in Hubei province with more than 1,000 confirmed cases, publicly admitted that he was ill-prepared, ill-controlled, and partly unauthentic; Huang Wei Huanggang, a reporter at Caijing Huang Huangying, the second worst-affected city in Hubei province, had 1246 new cases of coronavirus infection as of 2400 hours on February 2, 2020.
在2月1日召开的“新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控工作”新闻发布会上，黄冈市市长邱丽新表示，“今明两天黄冈的确诊病例可能会有大幅度的提升”。
"There may be a significant increase in the number of confirmed cases in Huanggang in the next two days," Qiu Lixin, mayor of Huanggang, told a news conference on Feb. 1.
2月1日当天，黄冈确诊病例已破千。
On February 1, a thousand cases were confirmed in Huanggang.
邱丽新在前述发布会上坦诚，在应对疫情方面准备不充分、防控措施不严、部分干部作风不实。
Qiu Lixin in the aforementioned conference confesses, in the response epidemic aspect preparation is insufficient, the prevention and control measure is lax, some cadre style is false.
对此，“我们确实感到非常内疚、自责。
"We do feel very guilty and remorseful.
”邱丽新透露，疫情发生后，全市各级纪检监察机关出动开展监督检查，处理处分党员干部337人。
Qiu Lixin revealed that after the outbreak, the city's disciplinary inspection and supervision authorities at all levels called for supervision and inspection to deal with 337 disciplinary party cadres.
6名防控工作不力的领导干部被免职，包括3名正县级干部，3名乡镇的党政主要领导。
Six leading cadres, including three full county-level cadres and three leading Party and government leaders in townships, were dismissed for lack of effective control.
截至发稿，黄冈官方并未公布被处理处分的党员干部及领导干部名单。
As of the date of dispatch, the official Huanggang has not announced the disposition of party cadres and leading cadres.
《财经》记者多方了解到，黄冈市卫生健康委员会一名主要负责人、黄冈市浠水县人大常委会一名主要负责人、黄冈市浠水县团陂镇党委主要负责人、黄冈市红安县华家河镇党委两名主要负责人均在近期被免职。
It is understood by Caijing that a main person in charge of Huanggang city Health and Health Committee, a principal person in charge of the NPCSC in these county, and the principal leader of the party committee in these area were recently removed from their posts.
《财经》记者就前述名单向湖北有关人士求证，对方未置可否，仅回复称：以纪委网站的通报内容为准。
"Caijing" reporter on the aforementioned list to Hubei people concerned, the other party did not agree, only replied: "The content of the notice on the disciplinary committee website.
另有湖北相关人士向《财经》记者回应，有的领导干部被免职后，相关履职不力的行为还在核实，所以尚未公开其信息。
Hubei related personage also responded to "Caijing" the reporter, some leading cadre is dismissed, the behavior of relevant malfunctions is still being verified, so its information has not been made public.
《财经》记者注意到，在前述被处理处分的337名党员干部中，仅1月31日这一天，黄冈方面就处理处分了135人。
The Caijing reporter noted that out of 337 party cadres who had been dealt with, 135 had been dealt with by Huanggang on January 31 alone.
邱丽新称，前期对新型冠状病毒疫情认知不足，准备不够充分。
Qiu Lixin said that the early stage of the new coronavirus epidemic awareness, not enough preparation.
当前疫情防控还面临许多困难和挑战：医疗救治能力仍然不足，防疫物资严重短缺，农村疫情防控存在短板，部分干部作风不实，疫情防控还存在一些薄弱环节。
At present, the prevention and control of the epidemic still faces many difficulties and challenges: medical treatment capacity is still insufficient, epidemic prevention and control materials are in serious short supply, there is a shortage of disease prevention and control in rural areas, some cadres are not true, and there are some weak points in disease prevention and control.
“下一步我们会加强重点地区的防控，全力救治患者，合理分级分类分区管理。
"The next step is to strengthen prevention and control in key areas, give full treatment to patients and properly classify and manage districts.
”一日内135人被处理处分黄冈是湖北省内人口仅次于武汉的第二大城市，距离武汉只有70多公里。
Huanggang is the second most populous city in Hubei Province after Wuhan, with a distance of just over 70 kilometers.
此次疫情中，约有60万-70万人在武汉“封城”前返回黄冈。
About 600,000-700,000 people returned to Huanggang before the Wuhan Sealing City.
邱丽新称，“巨大人员流动对防控带来非常大的压力。
"Huge human mobility puts a lot of pressure on prevention and control," Qiu said.
”截至2月2日24时，黄冈、武汉是湖北省内确诊病例数破千的两大城市。
As of 2400 hours February 2, Huanggang and Wuhan were two big cities in Hubei province with thousands of confirmed cases.
疫情严重程度着实不容忽视。
The magnitude of the epidemic cannot be ignored.
湖北省委副书记、省长王晓东在1月29日的新闻发布会上公开表示，“绝不能让黄冈成为第二个武汉。
"Huanggang must not be allowed to become a second Wuhan," provincial governor Wang Xiaodong, deputy secretary of the Hubei provincial Communist Party, said at a news conference on January 29.
”严峻的现实面前，部分领导干部的疏漏表现更易引起舆论声讨，也更可能造成严重后果。
In the face of harsh reality, the omission of some leading cadres is more likely to cause public outcry and possibly serious consequences.
1月29日，中央赴湖北指导组督查组到黄冈市了解当地疫情防控情况和疑似病例检测工作。
On January 29, the central government went to Huanggang city to learn about local epidemic prevention and control and the detection of suspected cases.
当问到定点医院收治能力、床位数量、核酸检测能力时，黄冈市卫健委主任唐志红、黄冈市疾控中心主任陈明星含糊其词，说不清情况。
When asked about the capacity of designated hospitals, the number of beds, nucleic acid testing capacity, Huanggang City Health Commissioner Tang Zhihong, Huanggang City CDC Director Chen star vague, unclear circumstances.
1月30日，黄冈市委发布通告称，黄冈市委研究同意免去唐志红黄冈市卫生健康委员会主任职务。
On January 30, the Huanggang municipal committee issued a notice that the Huanggang municipal committee research agreed to remove from office the director of the city health committee.
邱丽新在回应发生“卫健委唐主任一问三不知事件”时表示，“我们确实感到非常内疚和自责。
"We really feel very guilty and remorseful," Qiu Lixin said in response to a question about the incident.
”中央指导组督查组发现问题后，黄冈市各级纪检监察机关进一步加强了对全市的监督检查。
"After the problems were discovered by the supervisory group of the Central Steering Group, the disciplinary inspection and supervision authorities at all levels in Huanggang further strengthened their supervision and inspection of the city.
据黄冈市纪委监委通报，1月22日至1月30日，该市各级纪检监察机关累计出动2862人次，检查重点部位和场所5309处，共处理处分202人；1月22日至1月31日，全市各级纪检监察机关累计出动3497人次，检查重点部位和场所6416处，共处理处分337人。
From January 22 to January 30, the city's disciplinary inspection and supervision authorities at all levels sent 2,862 people to inspect key sites and sites and handled 202 punishment, according to the city's disciplinary watchdog committee.
这意味着，仅1月31日一天，黄冈市纪检监察机关即新增投入635人次，检查重点部分和场所1107处，处理处分135人。
This means that on January 31 alone, the disciplinary inspection and supervision authorities of Huanggang City added 635 new visits, inspected key parts and sites and dealt with 135 people.
1月30日、1月31日两天，黄冈市纪委监委连续召开视频会议，要求坚决以严肃的战时纪律向疫情防控工作不力的党员干部“开刀问斩”，“以壮士断腕的决心和最严厉问责倒逼干部作风转变”。
On January 30 and January 31, the Huanggang Municipal Disciplinary Committee held a series of videoconferences, demanding resolute wartime discipline to the ineffective party cadres to the disease control "behead," "with the determination and the most severe accountability to force the change in style of cadres."
1月30日的会议指出，从近期明察暗访情况来看，极少数地方和党员干部作风仍然存在一些突出问题，必须以壮士断腕的决心和最严厉的问责倒逼作风转变、责任落实。
The 30 January meeting noted that, judging from recent unannounced visits, a small number of localities and Party members still had some outstanding problems that must be addressed with determination and the strictest accountability practices.
1月31日的会议再次强调，当前黄冈市疫情防控工作中领导重视不够、措施落实不力、工作作风不实等问题在极少数地方和单位依然突出，必须坚持军令如山、铁腕执纪，督促各级党员干部转变作风，切实以铁的担当扛起疫情防控政治责任。
The meeting on January 31 re-emphasized that the current situation in Huanggang City, such as insufficient leadership attention, ineffective implementation of measures, work style is still outstanding in very few places and units, we must adhere to military orders, iron-fisted discipline, urge Party cadres at all levels to change their style of work, and earnestly shoulder the political responsibility of disease prevention and control.
多名领导干部被免职《财经》记者通过公开信息检索发现，疫情发生以来，黄冈有市卫健委主任唐志红、黄冈市浠水县人大常委会主任李葆良两名正县级干部被免职，黄冈市浠水县团陂镇党委书记万学锋、黄冈市红安县华家河镇党委书记汪宝权和镇长彭志鸿三位乡镇领导被免职。
It is found that since the outbreak of the epidemic situation two county-level cadres, namely Tang Zhihong, the head of the municipal health committee, Li Ploliang, the NPCSC head of the standing committee at these county level, Wan Xuefeng, secretary of the party committee of Pi Pi county in Shu county, Huanggang, and Wang Baoquan, party secretary of Huagang county Hongan county, and Pang Zhihong, mayor of these towns.
2月2日，湖北省纪委监委网站通报全省“防控工作中作风不实、履责不力等”6起典型问题。
On Feb. 2, the website of the Provincial Disciplinary Committee of the Hubei Province reported six typical problems, such as "false style and poor performance in prevention and control work."
其中前2例典型、被免职的4位干部都来自黄冈。
The first two typical and dismissed cadres were all from Huanggang.
第一例典型是，黄冈市浠水县人大常委会主任、党组书记李葆良及团陂镇党委书记万学锋等人防控责任不落实，工作流于形式，宣传不到位，李葆良包保的团陂镇多个村违反市指挥部“六个一律”要求。
It is typical that many villages of Pi-Pi township of Li Baoliang in Huanggang City violate the six uniform requirements of the Municipal Command because of the lack of implementation of the responsibilities of prevention and control.
在1月24日网友发布的一个视频中，浠水县某村干部一行三人，一名干部拿着高音喇叭循环播放着早已录好的防疫讯息，另一名干部敲着锣，还有一名干部垫后，在村路上走动宣传新冠状病毒防疫，并未佩戴口罩。
It is indicated that it is indicated that it is indicated that it is three persons walking in the direction of the village without a face mask. It is indicated that a cadre carrying a loudspeaker is circulating a recorded message of prevention.
留言此视频的同在浠水县、属于其他村的网友则表示，所在村连此类宣传都未出现。
It is indicated that the netizens who are in these these videos and belong to other villages are not aware of this type of publicity.
第二例典型是，黄冈市红安县华家河镇党委政府疫情防控工作不实、作风不实、履职不力，该镇1名脑瘫患者在家人被隔离期间死亡。
The second case is typical, Huagahe County, Huanggang City, the party committee of the government epidemic prevention and control work is not true, style is not effective, ineffective, the town of a cerebral palsy patient died during the isolation of his family.
镇党委书记汪宝权受到党内严重警告处分并被免职，镇长彭志鸿受到政务记大过处分并被免职，其他责任人员分别受到相应处理。
Town Party Secretary Wang Baoquan was severely warned by the party and dismissed. Mayor Peng Zhihong was reprimanded and dismissed, and the other responsible officers were dealt with accordingly.
2020年1月29日，红安县华家河镇鄢家村确诊为新冠病毒肺炎患者鄢小文的密切接触者鄢成（脑瘫患者，鄢小文的大儿子，16岁），在该镇集中观测点房间内确认死亡。
Close contacts Yan Xiaowen (cerebral palsy patient, eldest son of Yan Xiaowen, 16), diagnosed as Yan Xiaowen of the New Crown Virus Pneumonia in the Visayas Village, Hongan County, confirmed the death in the room of the town's centralized observation point.
当日下午，红安县委、县政府成立了由县公安局牵头，县纪委监委、县卫健局、县残联等单位负责人参与的联合调查组，对鄢成死亡事件展开全面调查。
In the afternoon, the government of Hongan County established a joint investigation team headed by the county public security bureau and involving the heads of the county disciplinary committees, county health bureaus and county disability federations to conduct a comprehensive investigation into Yan Cheng's death.
红安县政府网站通报的调查结果显示，红安县华家河镇党委、政府在新冠病毒肺炎疫情防控期间，存在工作不实、作风不实，疫情防控责任落实不到位等问题，造成严重后果。
The survey results announced on the government website of Hongan County show that during the prevention and control of the New Crown Virus Pneumonia, the party committee and the government in Hongan County had problems such as false work, incorrect style and inadequate implementation of disease control responsibilities, with serious consequences.
此外，枣阳市熊集镇党委书记邢天斌，太平镇镇长齐本忠；咸宁市通山县公安局副政委王庆度、县卫计综合监督执法局局长徐德运；大冶市大箕铺镇党委副书记陈亮、农办主任付玉红；荆州市江陵县郝穴镇江城社区居委会委员朱晓均为前述湖北省纪委监委通报的“疫情防控作风不实履责不力者”。
In addition, Zaoyang City bear market party secretary Xing Tianbin, Taiping Town Mayor Qi Benzhong; Xianning City Tongshan County Public Security Bureau vice-commissary Wang Qingdu, county Wei Wei Integrated Supervision and Enforcement Bureau Xu Deyun; Daye City Dajiepu Town Party Committee Deputy Secretary Chen Liang, Agricultural Director Fu Yuhong; Jingzhou Jiangling County Hao Cave Zhenjiang Town Community Committee Member Zhu Xiaohong for the aforementioned Hubei Provincial Disciplinary Committee Committee.
“我们要用最严措施、最严作风、最严管理、最严监督、最严问责，保障疫情防控各项部署和措施落地落细落实，争分夺秒打好疫情防控阻击战。
"We will take the most stringent measures, the strictest style, the strictest management, the strictest supervision and the strictest possible accountability to ensure that all arrangements and measures for the prevention and control of the epidemic are carefully implemented.
”湖北省委常委、省纪委书记、省监委主任王立山说。
Wang Lishan, secretary of the provincial disciplinary committee and head of the provincial monitoring committee, said.
【声明】本文为《财经》与腾讯新闻独家合作内容，谢绝转载新型冠状病毒疫情系列报道▷ 点击图片查看责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
This article is an original article by Caijing magazine and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization. This article is an original for Caijing magazine.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
黄冈确诊病例过千，市长称防控不力，曾一天问责135人。
Huanggang confirmed more than a thousand cases, the mayor said the control is weak, one day accountability 135 people.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "黄冈确诊病例过千，市长称防控不力，曾一天问责135人";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "黄冈是湖北省第二个确诊病例过千的城市，黄冈市长公开承认在应对疫情方面准备不充分、防控措施不严、部分干部作风不";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Huang Gang, the second city in Hubei province with a confirmed case of infection, publicly acknowledged that it was ill-prepared, ill-controlled, and with some cadres not AT & quot;;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
