世卫组织称新冠肺炎还不是全球流行病，其他国家如何应对？。
The WHO says pneumonia is not yet a global epidemic. How do other countries deal with it?
蔡婷贻。
CHOI Ying-yee.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
限制入境措施带来的危害可能大于好处，因为这可能阻挡信息、医疗物资的流通，影响世界经济；尽管非洲仍未发现确诊案例，但医学专家们预计，疫情在非洲爆发的风险也不小文 |《财经》记者 蔡婷贻编辑 | 郝洲日内瓦当地时间2月4日下午，世界卫生组织（WHO）表示，新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情尚未构成“全球性流行病”，与此同时，世卫组织总干事谭德塞向各成员国呼吁，及时与世卫组织分享关于新冠病毒疫情的相关信息，并且不要采取与《国际卫生条例》相悖的限制措施。
While no confirmed cases have been detected in Africa, the World Health Organization (WHO) yesterday afternoon called on members to share information about the outbreak with the World Health Organization (WHO) and refrain from imposing restrictions that are inconsistent with the International Health Regulations.
“目前，（在全球范围内）99%的确诊案例仍然集中在中国，97%的死亡案例集中在（中国）湖北省，所以这仍然是中国的首要紧急状况”，谭德塞说。
"At present, 99 percent of the confirmed cases are still concentrated in China, and 97 percent of the deaths are in Hubei province, so it remains the number one emergency in China," said Tandesse.
世卫组织正在与中国政府保持密切合作，“这是我们阻止疫情向全球蔓延的最佳方式。
WHO is working closely with the Chinese government. "This is the best way we can stop the epidemic from spreading around the world.
”同一天，英国外交部建议居住在中国境内的约3万名英国公民全部离开中国，并将于本周内派遣更多的专机接送英国侨民。
On the same day, the Foreign Office advised all 30,000 British citizens residing in China to leave the country and to send more planes to take British expatriates there this week.
截止到发稿，英国政府已经派遣两架专机分别于1月31日和2月2日抵达英国，共有94名英国公民及其家属被送至位于伦敦西北部牛津郡的英国皇家布莱兹诺顿空军基地，他们将在威勒尔区（Wirral）的阿罗公园医院接受14天的隔离和医学观察。
By the time of writing, the British government had sent two planes to Britain on January 31 and February 2, and 94 British citizens and their families had been taken to Britain's Royal BlazNorton Air Force Base in Oxfordshire, northwest of London, where they will be quarantined and medically observed for 14 days at Arrow Park Hospital in Wirral.
“这个房间很舒适，我们拿到一个装了各式各样重要补给品的袋子，甚至还有内裤，”原本居住在武汉的罗夫(Matt Raw)用视频记录下了在英国接受隔离的生活。
"The room was comfortable and we got bags of all sorts of vital supplies, even underpants," said Matt Raw, a former Wuhan-based video recording of living in quarantine in the UK.
与他一起接受隔离的还有他的母亲和中国妻子。
He was separated from his mother and his Chinese wife.
尽管美国、澳大利亚、新西兰等国对来自中国的旅客采取临时入境限制，英国卫生部表示目前尚无计划阻止旅客入境。
The health ministry said it had no plans to stop passengers from entering the country, despite restrictions on temporary entry by countries such as the United States, Australia and New Zealand.
英国、德国、法国、波兰、加拿大等40多个国家仅在入境口岸对旅客进行体温检测和疫情筛查，部分国家要求中国公民填写健康状况申报表。
More than 40 countries, including the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Poland and Canada, screen travellers for body temperature and disease only at ports of entry, with some requiring Chinese citizens to complete health status declarations.
全球应对准备仍然不足自1月底，数个国家国陆续派出飞机协助本国侨民离开武汉，全世界也面临着如何防止新型冠状病毒演变为全球爆发的考验。
Global Response Preparedness Still Less Ready Since late January, as several countries have flown to help their nationals leave Wuhan, the world has faced a test of how to prevent the new coronavirus from becoming a global outbreak.
世卫组织连续在第13、14、15号疫情报告中指出，“过去24小时，没有新的国家发现感染案例”。
"There have been no new cases of infection in the last 24 hours," WHO said in successive reports on epidemics Nos. 13, 14 and 15.
“我们对这个病毒还有很多不了解的方面，” 曾在哈佛执教多年的流行病学家费格丁对《财经》记者指出，“它引发的疫情不断改变……它的传播速度和感染案例增加非常快……我们已经很久没有见过这样的病毒。
"We still have a lot to learn about the virus," Fagin, a longtime Harvard epidemiologist, told Caijing. "The epidemic is changing... its spread and infections are increasing very fast... we haven't seen the virus in a long time.
”为了加速医生找出疑似症状，世卫组织2月 5日进一步指出，一些轻微症状，如流鼻涕、喉咙痛、咳嗽和发烧，都可能是新型冠状病毒的感染症状，在某些人身上的症状可能更严重，并可能导致肺炎或呼吸困难。
"In an effort to speed up doctors' efforts to identify the symptoms, the WHO added on February 5 that mild symptoms such as runny nose, sore throat, cough and fever could be symptoms of the new coronavirus, which in some people may be more severe and may lead to pneumonia or breathing difficulties.
世卫组织将于下周召开全球专家会议，以确定针对当前疫情的优先研究方向，同时呼吁全球各国加速合作研发试剂、药物和疫苗，让疫情能够得到控制。
WHO will convene a global meeting of experts next week to identify priority research directions for the current epidemic and to call on countries around the world to accelerate cooperation in the development of reagents, drugs and vaccines so that the epidemic can be controlled.
“这个病毒传染力非常强，大流行几乎没有悬念，但是会不会是灾难性的？我不知道。
"The virus is very contagious and the pandemic has little suspense, but would it be catastrophic? I don't know."
” 美国国家过敏和传染病研究所所长福奇(Anthony Fauci )指出。
Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said.
谭德塞2月3日在世卫组织的执行委员会议上再次警告，新型冠状病毒可能像流感一样迅速的传播到新的国家，但是全球社会缺乏准备，这是危险所在。
The new coronavirus could quickly spread to a new country like the flu, but there is a danger that the global community will be unprepared, Tan said at a meeting of the WHO Executive Board on Feb. 3.
几日前，世卫组织宣布此次新型冠状病毒疫情为“国际关注的突发公共卫生事件”时曾表示，“我们最大的担忧是病毒传播到那些卫生体系相对脆弱以及那些应对准备不足的国家。
A few days ago, the World Health Organization (WHO) declared the new coronavirus outbreak a public health emergency of international concern. Our greatest concern is the spread of the virus to countries where health systems are relatively fragile and ill-prepared.
”截止到2月4日，在中国大陆以外有23个国家和地区共确诊159个新型冠状病毒感染的病例。
As of February 4, 159 new coronavirus infections had been confirmed in 23 countries and territories outside mainland China.
最多的感染案例在日本，达20例，接着是泰国19例，韩国15例。
The highest number of infections occurred in Japan (20), followed by Thailand (19) and South Korea (15).
这些案例出现死亡的机率并不高，2月1日，菲律宾出现第一个中国境外的死亡案例，一名来自武汉的44岁男性。
These cases do not have a high chance of death. On February 1, the Philippines experienced its first death outside China, a 44-year-old man from Wuhan.
中国香港特区2月4日出现第一个死亡案例，一名曾访问过武汉的39岁男性。
The first death occurred in Hong Kong SAR of China on February 4, when a 39-year-old man visited Wuhan.
中国国家卫生健康委员会在2月4日的新闻发布会上称，根据目前中国境内的病例统计，“确诊病例的病死率是2.1%”，在疫情的集中爆发地武汉，这一数字为3.1%。
According to statistics on cases in China, the fatality rate for confirmed cases is 2.1 percent, and in Wuhan, the epicentre of the outbreak, the figure is 3.1 percent, the National Health Council said at a news conference on Feb. 4.
2003年的SARS致死率约为15%。
The mortality rate from SARS in 2003 was about 15%.
新型冠状病毒在中国境外部分区域的传播仍在继续。
The spread of the new coronavirus continues in some regions outside China.
2月4日，韩国确诊一例曾经到泰国旅游而感染的女性。
On February 4, South Korea confirmed a case of a woman who had travelled to Thailand and contracted the disease.
2月5日，日本厚生劳动省发布消息称，停泊在横滨港的“钻石公主号”邮轮上已经确诊10人感染冠状病毒。
10 people have been confirmed to be infected with coronavirus, the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare said on February 5.
这使得日本感染者总数猛增到33人，不排除在船上还有几十名感染者的可能。
That brings the total number of infected people in Japan to 33, not ruling out the possibility of dozens of infected people on board.
此外，乘坐英国第二架撤侨包机的一名比利时女性在抵达英国后接受的病毒检测呈阳性，同机的其他乘客正在接受隔离和医学观察。
In addition, a Belgian woman on a second British chartered overseas evacuation was tested positive for the virus on arrival in the UK, while other passengers on board were being quarantined and medically observed.
英国南安普顿大学(Southampton)的专家通过监测手机号码的移动，做出人口移动模型，他们认为，全世界最可能爆发疫情的城市依序为：曼谷、香港、台北。
Experts at Southampton, the UK, used to model population movements by monitoring the movement of mobile phone numbers and concluded that the most likely cities in the world were Bangkok, Hong Kong and Taipei.
以国家区分，风险最高的前两位是泰国和日本，美国居第六。
By country, the top two at risk are Thailand and Japan, while the United States ranks sixth.
流行病学家在推演疫情时偏向推演出病毒传播的下一阶段发展，借此提早防堵病毒的传播。
Epidemiologists preferentially extrapolate the next stage of virus transmission to prevent the spread of the virus early.
美国主要疫情专家指出，美国应该抱着“病毒已经在这里”的心态，为可能爆发的疫情做准备，包括动员医院、加速就检测病毒和隔离作出安排。
Leading U. S. epidemic experts say the United States should prepare for a possible outbreak with the "virus already here" mentality, including mobilizing hospitals, accelerating arrangements for virus detection and isolation.
也有部分科学家指出，各国在对抗疫情上不能为反应而反应，现在是需要进一步作长远打算的时候。
Some scientists also point out that countries are unable to respond to the epidemic and that the time has come for further long-term planning.
约翰霍普金斯大学教授英格莱斯比 (Tom Inglesby) 指出，美国政府采取关闭边境和隔离病人的作法的有效性值得重新评估，“因为一旦其他国家也发生社区感染，美国是否也要求自那些国家回到美国本土的国民隔离呢？如果接下来是大流行，我们需要考虑每个可能措施, 评估是否能发挥作用，以及可能需要的社会成本。
As Tom Inglesby, a professor at Johns Hopkins University, points out, the effectiveness of the US government's practice of closing its borders and isolating patients is worth reassessing, "because if other countries become infected with the community, will the US also demand separation of nationals returning to the US from those countries?
”无奈的撤侨和必要的隔离55岁的迈卡威 (Mattew L McCoy)是一名主题乐园设计师，他的新身份是美国撤离武汉班机的第211号。
"Helpless evacuees and the necessary 55-year-old Mattew L McCoy, a theme park designer with a new identity at No 211 on an American flight out of Wuhan.
迈卡威和其他美国人幸运地搭上回家的飞机后，却被告知不能马上回家，他和其他被撤离的美国公民一道在位于南加州的马奇军事基地（March Ari Force Base）接受为期14天的隔离，这是美国自1963年来第一次采取的联邦隔离措施。
After being lucky enough to board the plane home, McCarvey and other Americans were told they would not be able to return home immediately. Together with other evacuated US citizens, he was quarantined at the March Ari Force Base in Southern California for the first time since 1963.
“疾病管制属和领事管人员为我们提供专业和高规格的照护，每天进行多次检查，”迈卡威对《财经》记者表示。
"CDC and consular staff provide us with professional and high-quality care and conduct multiple examinations every day," McCabe told Caijing.
在接受隔离的军事基地里，每个人被安置在独立的房间，他们可以互相交流，甚至部分运动和艺术专业人士还对其他一起隔离的人员开设课程。
In the quarantined military bases, each person is placed in a separate room where they can communicate with each other, and even some sports and art professionals offer courses for others who are isolated together.
在美国2月3日举行“超级碗”比赛时，隔离者们还举行了观赛派对。
At the Super Bowl on February 3 in the United States, the isolators also had a party.
这些待遇并非免费。
These benefits are not free.
迈卡威在最后一刻抢到的飞机座位价值1000美元，加上14天隔离无法工作，迈卡威近日在众筹平台发起乐捐，希望爱心人士能帮助他弥补他的经济损失。
McCarvey's last-minute plane, worth $1, 000, plus 14 days of isolation, has launched a donation on a crowd-funding platform in the hope that caring people will help him make up for his financial losses.
除了美国，采取相同措施的还包括日本、韩国、印度、孟加拉国、印度尼西亚、土耳其、英国、法国、澳大利亚、新西兰、德国、俄罗斯和马来西亚等。
In addition to the US, Japan, South Korea, India, Bangladesh, Indonesia, Turkey, the United Kingdom, France, Australia, New Zealand, Germany, Russia, and Malaysia have taken similar steps.
隔离设施的选择和令所有侨民配合执行隔离并不容易。
The choice of isolation facilities and the cooperation of all expatriates in enforcing segregation are not easy.
像美国一样，德国也选择了空军基地进行隔离；英国征用国家护理人员建筑；澳大利亚政府尽管承担撤离费用，但是选择了用来隔离非法移民的小岛“圣诞岛”，第一批撤到该岛的侨民批评这里“蟑螂乱爬、网路讯号薄弱”，部分人抱怨供餐不太理想。
Like the United States, Germany chose air bases for quarantine; Britain requisitioned state nursing staff; the Australian government chose Christmas Island, a small island used to separate illegal immigrants, despite the evacuation costs. The first evacuees criticized the island for "cockroach crawling and weak network traffic," with some complaining of poor feeding.
在2015年面对另一个冠状病毒——中东呼吸道症候群(MERS)时，韩国发生过多名感染病人未确实自主隔离，反而外出参与聚会的事情。
When confronted with another coronavirus, the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS), in 2015, South Korea experienced a number of infected patients who did not actually isolate themselves but went to parties.
韩国政府这次也选择对700多名侨民进行集中隔离，被选中的两处隔离地点所在城市牙山和镇川却出现大批表示不满的当地民众。
The South Korean government has also chosen to cluster more than 700 expatriates this time around, while the cities of Asan and Zhenchuan, where the two sites were selected, have seen a flood of disaffected locals.
为防止侨民受到攻击，政府还出动数百名警察应对可能的大型抗议。
Hundreds of police officers have also been deployed to counter possible large-scale protests to prevent attacks on the diaspora.
日本政府在把565名撤回侨民隔离在埼玉县和光市的国立保健医疗科学院时，出现执行撤侨的官员自杀事故，官房长官2月4日宣布将隔离改为自主管理，并将隔离时间从14天缩短为10天。
The Government of Japan, while isolating 565 expatriates in the Saitama and GwangCity National Institutes of Health and Medical Sciences, committed suicide by officials carrying out evacuations, and the Chief Cabinet Secretary announced on 4 February a change from isolation to self-management, reducing the duration of isolation from 14 to 10 days.
法国政府选择的隔离地点则是西南部卡里勒鲁埃度假村，这令不少其他国家的侨民羡慕不已。
The French government's choice of a secluded resort in the south-west, Carilleroué, is the envy of many expatriates in other countries.
卡里勒鲁埃面对着地中海，除了一天量两次体温，被隔离的侨民可以在户外自由行走、打排球、踢足球、上艺术课等。
Carrilruhe faces the Mediterranean, where, in addition to twice a day's temperature, isolated expatriates are free to walk outdoors, play volleyball, play soccer, attend art classes, etc.
法国政府指出，度假村冬天是淡季，因此选了这个地点，附近村庄居民一度也反对，但最后达成妥协。
The French government said the resort was chosen because of the low season in winter, and residents of nearby villages objected but a compromise was reached.
除了隔离，一些国家（如美国、新加坡和澳大利亚）宣布禁止曾到过中国的外国公民进入，希望借此将病毒隔离在外；日本将范围缩小，暂时禁止申请入境前14天以内曾在湖北省逗留的外国人、持有湖北省发行的中国护照者入境，俄罗斯、巴基斯坦和意大利也有类似做法。
In addition to isolation, some countries (such as the United States, Singapore and Australia) have announced bans on foreign nationals who have been to China in the hope of isolating the virus; Japan has narrowed the scope to temporarily bar foreigners who have been in Hubei Province for up to 14 days before applying for entry, and Chinese passport holders from Hubei Province, as have Russia, Pakistan and Italy.
这些国家的做法究竟是否合理目前没有答案，不过显然与世卫组织的建议背道而驰。
There was no answer to the question of whether the practices of those countries were justified, although they were clearly contrary to the recommendations of WHO.
相对于欧美国家，中国游客最常出游的东南亚国家就谨慎许多，菲律宾采取减少航班措施而非完全取消，泰国航空除了取消飞往部分城市的航班，其他航班正常往返。
South-East Asian countries, where Chinese tourists travel the most, are far more cautious than those in Europe and the US, with the Philippines taking fewer flights rather than eliminating them altogether, and Thai Airways canceling some flights to some cities and others commuting regularly.
柬埔寨首相洪森为了安抚国民的恐慌情绪，在举行新闻发布会的时候主动选择不戴口罩，并且表示“会把戴口罩的人踢出去”，因为这样的做法会制造毫无根据的恐惧气氛。
Cambodia's Prime Minister Hun Sen chose not to wear a mask during a news conference to assuage fears, and said he would "kick out the man wearing the mask," which creates an unwarranted atmosphere of fear.
世卫组织在1月31日宣布疫情构成国际关注的突发公共卫生事件（PHEIC）时指出，限制入境措施带来的危害可能大于好处，因为这可能阻挡信息、医疗物资的流通，影响世界经济。
When WHO declared on 31 January that the outbreak constituted a public health emergency of international concern (PHEIC), it noted that restrictions on entry could do more harm than good, as it could impede the flow of information, medical supplies and the world economy.
世卫组织还建议，不需要限制外国公民入境，只需要在边境进行筛检即可。
WHO also suggested that there was no need to restrict the entry of foreign nationals, but only to screen at the border.
谭德塞在2月3日的会议上也重申，各国应该在防疫准备方面加大投入而非“恐慌”。
Speaking at the February 3 meeting, Mr Tanner reiterated that countries should invest more in preparedness rather than "panic."
非洲暂时免疫并不乐观自疫情暴发以来，少数未出现案例的区域为传染病频繁的非洲。
Temporary immunization in Africa is not promising. Since the outbreak, the few regions where there have been no cases have been in Africa, where infectious diseases are frequent.
数个非洲国家，包括埃塞俄比亚、肯尼亚、安哥拉、科特迪瓦等，都曾出现过疑似案例，但最后都被证明是虚惊一场。
Suspected cases have emerged in several African countries, including Ethiopia, Kenya, Angola and Côte d'Ivoire, but have turned out to be false.
但是，传染病专家并未对非洲暂时的免疫感到乐观。
But infectious-disease experts are not optimistic about Africa's temporary immunity.
“我们非常担心非洲，因为一些对疫情最缺乏准备的国家就在非洲”，美国前疾病控制和预防中心主任费里登（Thomas Frieden）指出。
"We are very worried about Africa because some of the countries least prepared for the epidemic are in Africa," says Thomas Frieden, former director of the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
“非洲国家在确诊病毒和防止病毒扩散的系统上，比其他地方更为欠缺。
"African countries lack systems for diagnosing the virus and preventing its spread more than anywhere else.
”世卫组织非洲办公室的一名医生塔利苏纳（ Ambrose Otau Talisuna）也指出，疫情在非洲爆发的风险“非常、非常的高。
Ambrose Otau Talisuna, a doctor at the WHO Africa office, also notes that the risk of outbreaks in Africa is "very, very high."
”世卫组织在将疫情列为PHEIC后就加速推动非洲的防疫准备，并列出包括乌干达、肯尼亚、尼日利亚、南非、刚果、埃塞俄比亚等13个国家为高风险国。
WHO accelerated epidemic preparedness in Africa when it listed the outbreak as PHEIC, and listed 13 high-risk countries, including Uganda, Kenya, Nigeria, South Africa, the Congo and Ethiopia.
这些国家在机场设置体温监测设备，同时开辟出可能用于隔离的空间。
These countries set up temperature monitoring equipment at airports, while opening up areas that could be used for isolation.
盖茨基金会在一月底也宣布捐出1000万美元对抗新型冠状病毒，其中一半捐给中国，一半捐给非洲疾病控制和预防中心。
At the end of January, the Gates Foundation also announced a donation of $10 million to fight the new coronavirus, half of it to China and half to the African Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
世卫组织非洲区主任莫耶缇（Matshidiso Moeti） 指出，这些国家如果能越快检测出病毒，他们就能越快控制住疫情，避免给整个卫生系统带来重负。
As Matshidiso Moeti, WHO's regional director for Africa, points out, the sooner these countries can detect the virus, the sooner they can contain it and avoid placing a strain on the entire health system.
不过，目前整个非洲只有两个实验室具备检测能力，因此世卫组织协助非洲防疫的主要任务之一就是协助各国改善实验室设备，同时向20多个国家分发检测试剂。
Currently, however, only two laboratories have detection capacity across Africa, so one of the main tasks of WHO in assisting epidemic prevention in Africa is to assist countries in improving laboratory equipment, while reagents for testing are distributed to more than 20 countries.
为了防范疫情，部分国家开始采取积极措施。
In order to prevent the epidemic, some countries began to take active measures.
尼日利亚政府鼓励自中国抵达的旅客，就算没有任何症状也自我隔离至少两周；莫桑比克目前暂停对中国公民发放签证，同时也禁止中国护照持有者入境；南非政府迅速成立了应急中心，停止邮政包裹业务，同时开始在36个入境点进行监控。
His Government encouraged tourists arriving from China to isolate themselves for at least two weeks, even without any symptoms; it was suspending the issuance of visas to Chinese citizens while also barring Chinese passport holders from entering the country; and it had swiftly established emergency centres to stop postal parcels and had begun monitoring at 36 entry points.
尽管不少国家都加速部署了防疫措施，非洲疾病控制和预防中心主任恩肯加松（John Nkengasong）仍担心非洲大陆是否已经出现了还未被发现的案例，因为他还没见过一个变化如此迅速的疫情。
Despite the acceleration of epidemic prevention efforts in a number of countries, John Nkengasong, director of the African Centre for Disease Control and Prevention, remains concerned about whether there have been undetected cases on the continent, because he has yet to see an epidemic of such rapid change.
当前疫情在全球蔓延并未结束，如何快速检测出可疑案例正成为流行病专家的关注焦点。
The current global epidemic is not over, and how to quickly detect suspicious cases is becoming the focus of epidemic experts.
国内普遍依赖的核酸检测试剂盒被不少国外专家认为太过费时，当检查数量过多时，准确性也会出现下滑。
Nucleic acid test kit, which is widely relied on in China, is considered too time-consuming by many foreign experts.
流行病学家费格丁对《财经》记者指出，在疑似案例大增时，如何选出可疑案例进行检测就是一个问题，例如在美国境内，如果标准是与中国人有近距离接触的人，那去过中国餐厅算不算？由于各界对新型冠状病毒所知仍有限，其传播率和致死率仍无法完全确定，美国流行病学家认为大家应该做最坏的打算，避免反应不足。
In the United States, for example, if the standard is a person who has close contact with the Chinese people, then a Chinese restaurant is a problem.Because knowledge of the new coronavirus remains limited and the transmission and death rates remain uncertain, U.S. epidemiologists believe that the worst-case scenario should be avoided.
梅约医学中心的流行病和疫苗专家波兰德教授（Gregory Poland）建议全世界将疫情当作已经进入“大流行”状态，他指出，别忘了“SARS是通过非常低技术含量但有效的方法控制住的，包括多洗手、戴口罩、社交距离等，这是我们未来（防疫）应该专注的（重点）。
Professor Gregory Poland, an epidemiologist and vaccine specialist at the Mayo Medical Center, recommends that the world treat the outbreak as if it had entered a "pandemic," noting that "SARS is controlled by very low-tech but effective methods, including frequent hand-washing, masks, and social distance, which we should focus on in the future."
”▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the epidemic: & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
世卫组织称新冠肺炎还不是全球流行病，其他国家如何应对？。
The WHO says pneumonia is not yet a global epidemic. How do other countries deal with it?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "世卫组织称新冠肺炎还不是全球流行病，其他国家如何应对？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; WHO says pneumonia is not yet a global epidemic; how did other countries respond?;
var msg_desc = "限制入境措施带来的危害可能大于好处，因为这可能阻挡信息、医疗物资的流通，影响世界经济；尽管非洲仍未发现确诊案例，但医学专家们预计，疫情在非洲爆发的风险也不小";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
