病毒退去后，疾控体系该如何补漏？。
After the virus recedes, how should disease control system fill in leak?
中国经营报                      。
China Business News.
中国经营报。
China Business News.
与中国企业同步成长，对话商业领袖，传播商业理想，服务商业人群，《中国经营报》掌控中国商界绝对话语权。
Growing in step with Chinese companies, dialogue with business leaders, spreading business ideals, serving the business community, The China Business Administration controls the absolute voice of the Chinese business community.
。
.
The following article comes from 我们来补课。
Let's make up the lessons.
Author 寒潭清。
Author Cold Tam Qing.
我们来补课。
Let's make it up.
成人版十万个为什么，重拾你对世界的好奇心。
Adults version 100,000 Why, to regain your curiosity about the world.
病毒在地球上存在了数十亿年，早已构成生态系统不可或缺的一部分，想彻底消灭病毒比消灭全部虫子更不现实，此次新冠肺炎疫情绝不是人类和病毒的最后一场战斗。
Viruses, which have existed for billions of years on Earth, have long been an integral part of ecosystems, and it is far less realistic to eliminate them completely than to destroy them all.
事实上随着斗争经验的丰富，人类面对病毒已不像从前那样无从下手，但在疫情消失后精神上懈怠却为此次疫情中的手忙脚乱埋下伏笔。
In fact, with the rich experience of the struggle, the human face of the virus is no longer as helpless as before, but after the disappearance of the disease in the spirit of slack for the hands of the epidemic.
例如在十几年前的SARS中，总结出了诸多宝贵经验，可惜并未全部被有效落实。
For example, more than a decade ago in SARS, summed up a lot of valuable experience, unfortunately not all have been effectively implemented.
此次疫情暴露了哪些漏洞？我们又该如何弥补呢？基层要有发现疫情的哨兵固然，面对病毒没有特效药，但如果能早发现疫情，控制传染，对感染者隔离治疗，常常能将疫情消灭在萌芽状态。
What gaps has the outbreak exposed? How can we make up for it? While sentinels at the grass-roots level need to find the disease, there is no specific cure for the virus, but it is often possible to nip the outbreak in the bud if the disease is detected early, infection is contained and the infected are treated in isolation.
这方面做得比较好的是日本，日本通过分级诊疗制度，使预防监测直达“末梢”。
Japan has done relatively well in this regard, with a tiered system of diagnosis and treatment that allows preventive monitoring up to the "end."
在日本生病了，人们通常会到各个专科诊所就诊。
When people get sick in Japan, they usually go to specialized clinics.
如果诊所的医生认为患者的病情需要到综合医院诊断，才会为患者开具介绍信，并为患者预约。
If the doctor at the clinic believes that the patient's condition requires a general hospital diagnosis, a recommendation letter is issued and an appointment is made for the patient.
这种做法有很多好处。
There are many advantages to this approach.
一方面散布全国的专科诊所构成一个个“神经末梢”，深深地扎根社会，能迅速发现出现的疫情并第一时间上报，相关主管部门根据病例数变动来监测疫情的流行趋势，并向社会发布传染病风险以及相关防护措施。
On the one hand, specialized clinics scattered throughout the country constitute "nerve endings," deeply rooted in society, capable of rapidly detecting outbreaks and reporting them as soon as possible. Relevant authorities monitor the epidemic trend in the light of changes in the number of cases, and disseminate to the community the risks of infectious diseases and related protective measures.
另一方面，这种设置大大缓解了综合医院的压力，既能让民众及时就医，同时优化了资源的配置，又?让具有优质医疗资源的综合医院可以全力救治危重患者。
On the other hand, it greatly alleviates the pressure on general hospitals, allowing people to seek medical attention in a timely manner while optimizing the allocation of resources and allowing general hospitals with high-quality medical resources to fully treat patients in critical condition.
也正因此，这些医院基本上没有人头攒动排长队的现象，也就降低了在疫情发生时由于人群密集而出现交叉感染的概率。
As a result, these hospitals are largely unstaffed and long queues, which reduces the probability of cross-infection due to the density of the population at the time of the outbreak.
但是这种分散式的医疗体系对医生的专业素质和医院的管理能力有着极高的要求。
But this kind of decentralized medical system has the extremely high request to the doctor's professional quality and the hospital management ability.
除了医疗，日本各地还设有专门的“保健所”，负责传染病的预防。
In addition to medical care, there are also special "health clinics" throughout Japan responsible for the prevention of infectious diseases.
保健所定期深入居民区、学校等地普及传染病防疫知识，从儿童抓起，帮助居民养成良好的生活卫生习惯。
Health clinics conduct regular in-depth popularization of infectious disease epidemic prevention in residential areas, schools and other places, starting with children, so as to help residents develop good hygiene practices.
目前大部分国家存在的问题是，在公共卫生上的投入不足，导致传染病前期预防工作不到位，反而给后续的治疗工作带来巨大压力。
The current problem in most countries is that insufficient investment in public health leads to a lack of pre-infectious disease prevention and puts enormous pressure on subsequent treatment efforts.
不少防疫体系比较完善的发达国家，虽然对新冠疫情发现得早，但是在处理上不及时，抱有侥幸心理，导致疫情扩散。
Many developed countries with relatively perfect epidemic prevention systems, although they discovered the new crown epidemic early, but they did not deal with it in time and left it to chance.
信息沟通要顺畅应对疫情，全国是一盘棋，只有信息沟通顺畅，才能最大效率地集中全社会力量来战胜敌人。
Information communication to smooth response to the epidemic, the whole country is a chess game, only smooth information communication, can the most efficient concentration of social forces to defeat the enemy.
很多国家的卫生、环境、食品等部门、各政府之间信息不流通，带来的问题就是发现异常情况不及时，总有地方慢半拍，对疫源的研究也处于碎片化、低水平重复的困境中，这白白浪费了早期的先机。
In many countries, the lack of information flow between the health, environment, food and other sectors and governments has led to the problem of untimely detection of abnormal conditions. There is always a place to slow down, and the research on epidemic sources is in a state of fragmentation and low-level repetition, thus wasting early opportunities.
美国建立了一套相对健全的传染病报告系统，能实现早期疫情的共享。
The United States has established a relatively robust infectious disease reporting system that allows for the sharing of early outbreaks.
疫情信息不仅有自下而上的报送，各个专业部门之间也有共享。
Information on the epidemic is not only sent from the bottom up, but is also shared across professional sectors.
此外医卫专业人员之间也有信息渠道，如2000年建立的Epi-X，拥有来自美疾控中心、各地卫生部和公卫机构的约6000个用户，该平台在公共卫生事件中给每个独立的医疗专业人员提供了一个快速报告和专业交流的平台。
In addition, there are information channels among health professionals, such as Epi-X, established in 2000, with approximately 6,000 users from the CDC, local health ministries and public health agencies, which provides a platform for rapid reporting and professional exchange among individual health professionals in public health events.
防疫和经济缺一不可2009年猪流感横行世界，当年6月底，美国的病例数比排名第二、第三的墨西哥、加拿大加起来还多，但美国却比较“淡定”。
The United States had more cases at the end of June than Mexico and Canada, which ranked second and third, combined, but the United States was more "calm."
原因在于根据动物实验和对人群的观察发现，这次的猪流感和以前的流感有根本差别：传播慢，病死率也不高。
The reason is that the swine flu is fundamentally different from previous flu outbreaks: slow spread and low death rates, according to animal studies and observations of the population.
因此美国没有选择倾全国之力去对付一个相对来说威胁不大的猪流感。
So the United States has not opted for a national response to a relatively low-threat swine flu.
今日美国（USAToday）以《新型冠状病毒可怕，但流感更致命，传播范围更广》为题发文，指出“比新型冠状病毒更危险的是已经影响百万美国人的流感”▼美国的这一决策也是因为有过“前车之鉴”。
"The US today is sending a message saying" more dangerous than the new coronavirus, but the flu is more deadly and widespread, "pointing out that" more dangerous than the new coronavirus is the flu that has already affected millions of Americans. "
1976年，美国在没有彻底弄清楚情况的时候便为4200万人接种了疫苗，最后猪流感没来，反而因为疫苗的副作用死了30多人，带来了3917起向政府索赔的官司，总金额高达35亿美元，猪流感疫苗的全民接种也成为美国20世纪最大的公共卫生决策失误之一。
In 1976, the United States vaccinated 42 million people without a thorough understanding of the situation. Instead, the swine flu did not arrive, killing more than 30 people because of the side effects of the vaccine, and leading to 3,917 lawsuits against the government for a total of $3.5 billion.
这也是有些国家对疫情进行“佛系”处理的根本原因，尤其是经济对外部依赖程度高的，比起病毒，他们更害怕巨大的经济损失。
That is why some countries are "buddhist" in dealing with the epidemic, especially when the economy is highly dependent on the outside world and fears huge economic losses more than viruses.
但是疫情的发展不以人的意志为转移，目前的问题是，早先抱有侥幸心理的国家疫情开始扩散，反而需要付出更高的成本进行控制。
But the epidemic is not driven by human will, and the problem now is that national epidemics, which were left to chance, are beginning to spread, at much higher cost.
防疫功夫在平时等到疫情来临时再行动是绝对来不及的，只有平时功夫到家，面对危机才能从容不迫。
Vaccination kungfu in peacetime to wait for the outbreak of disease before action is absolutely too late, only peacetime kungfu home, facing the crisis can be leisurely.
得益于现代医学的进步和防疫体系的发展，很多传染病在萌芽期就被消灭了。
Thanks to the progress of modern medicine and the development of epidemic prevention system, many infectious diseases are eliminated in the germination stage.
那为什么SARS过去十几年了，科学家还要跑遍全国、深入蝙蝠洞去寻找病毒源头？因为获取了病毒的数据，当再次遇到类似的疫情时，就不至于两眼一抹黑。
So why is it that for more than a decade now, scientists have been traveling all over the country, deep into Batcave to find the source of the virus?
传染病防疫确实是个吃力不讨好的活，不仅要长期“坐冷板凳”，平时还很难见到显眼的成绩，于是常常被人们忽略。
Infectious disease prevention is really a thankless job, not only to "sit on the bench" for a long time, usually also very difficult to see visible results, so often ignored.
毕竟在没有疫情发生时，跑到深山老林的蝙蝠洞里研究粪便看上去似乎有些“愚蠢”。
After all, in the absence of the outbreak, it seems "silly" to go to Batman's Batcave in the mountains to study excrement.
可一旦发生疫情，恰恰是这些平时不起眼的人和他们坚持做的工作，构成了对抗病毒的最后一道防线。
But once the outbreak, it is these ordinary people and their persistent work, constitute the last line of defense against the virus.
科学家们跋山涉水，在蝙蝠洞中进行研究▼图片来源：“一席”公众号当然，我国在传染病防疫研究上的投入还有待提高。
Why don't we do some research in Batcave Why don't we go over to the public Why don't we invest more in research into the prevention of infectious diseases
2003年的SARS，2015年的埃博拉，2017年的禽流感以及这次的新冠，病毒都是BSL-3级别病原体，需要高安全等级的医学实验室才能进行研究。
With SARS in 2003, Ebola in 2015, avian influenza in 2017, and this new crown, the virus is a BSL-3 pathogen that requires a high-security medical laboratory to conduct research.
美国所有高水平大学的医学院和医院都基本配备BSL-3实验室，方便迅速从临床上分离危险的病原体以及后续基础研究的展开。
Medical schools and hospitals at all high-level universities in the United States are basically equipped with BSL-3 laboratories to facilitate rapid clinical isolation of dangerous pathogens and follow-up basic research.
中国目前高校中建有能够从事非兽类病原研究的BSL-3实验室只有武汉大学、浙江大学、中山大学、复旦大学和中国医科大学5家，规模和对外交流合作范围都极为有限，很难无法满足科研需要。
At present, there are only five BSL-3 labs in Chinese universities which can engage in non-animal pathogen research. They are located in Wuhan University, Zhejiang University, Zhongshan University, Fudan University and Chinese Medical University.
此外，公共卫生人才也较为缺乏。
Moreover, there is a shortage of public health personnel.
中国疾控中心只有约2100名员工，也缺乏具有医学、公卫、信息学、法律等多重背景的复合型人才。
With only about 2,100 employees, the CDC also lacks complex personnel with multiple backgrounds in medicine, public health, informatics and law.
物资储备尤为重要保障充足的医疗物资同样重要。
Material stocks are particularly important to ensure adequate medical supplies.
物资缺乏不仅无法满足防控需求，对一线医护人员的生命安全也会带来巨大隐患。
Lack of materials not only can not meet the demand for prevention and control, but also bring great danger to the life safety of front-line medical staff.
以新加坡为例，在SARS疫情中，问卷调查显示，与巨大的工作压力相比，医护人员更担心自己患病、或是无意中将疾病传播给家人、朋友和同事。
In the case of Singapore, for example, a questionnaire survey showed that health-care workers were more worried about getting sick or unwittingly transmitting the disease to family, friends and co-workers than they were under great stress at work.
新加坡的卫生机构不仅提供了充足的防护设备如防护服、手套、护目镜等，并且非常注重保障这些装备的质量，提供了相应的个人防护培训，大大增强了医护人员的信心。
Health facilities in Singapore not only provide adequate protective equipment such as protective clothing, gloves, goggles, etc., but also place great emphasis on ensuring the quality of such equipment, providing appropriate personal protection training and greatly enhancing the confidence of medical staff.
美国为应对自然和人为灾害也建立起了一个应急救援体系—美国国家战略储备（SNS）。
In response to natural and man-made disasters, the United States has also established an emergency rescue system - the United States National Strategic Reserve (SNS).
美国的政府与专家合作，结合当前国情和医疗现状确定物资的储备范围，除了基本的口罩防护服等个人设备，还包括抗生素、药品、便携式急救医疗设备等等，储备范围十分全面，并且会根据专业部门的研究不断更新储备品种，保证能适应应急需要。
The United States Government, in cooperation with experts, determines the scope of the material reserve in the light of current national conditions and current medical conditions. In addition to basic personal equipment such as masks and protective clothing, antibiotics, medicines, portable emergency medical equipment, etc., the scope of the reserve is comprehensive and will be continuously updated to meet emergency needs based on research conducted by specialized departments.
此外，美国专门设计了一种速达应急包，每件应急包重50吨，由130个标准货箱组成，12小时内能迅速部署到事发地点。
In addition, the United States has designed a quick-response kit of 50 tons each, consisting of 130 standard cargo containers, capable of rapid deployment to the site within 12 hours.
它们分别储存在美国国内几个临近主要交通枢纽的秘密战略点，由世界一流的商业运输伙伴负责递送。
They are stored in secret strategic locations in the United States, adjacent to major transportation hubs, and are delivered by world-class commercial transport partners.
一件应急包内的物资足够数十万人维持十天的治疗和预防。
One emergency kit is sufficient for hundreds of thousands of people to sustain treatment and prevention for 10 days.
再者，由于医疗物资存在有效期，大量储备对财政也会造成一定负担，美国在政府储备的同时也和企业进行合作。
Moreover, because of the shelf life of medical supplies and the financial burden of large amounts of reserves, the United States cooperates with companies as well as in government reserves.
对市场可供应的，政府和企业签订合同，保证紧急情况下可以直接送达，通过利用供应商的现有仓储和供应网络，减少了政府的管理支出。
Where markets are available, Governments and enterprises contract to ensure direct delivery in emergency situations, reducing government management expenditures by utilizing existing warehousing and supply networks of suppliers.
但即便美国已做了不少准备，面对来势汹汹的疫情也面临物资缺乏的窘境。
But even as the United States has done much to prepare, it faces shortages in the face of a menacing epidemic.
这时，完备的制造体系和强大的供应链就显得尤为重要。
At this time, a complete manufacturing system and a strong supply chain is particularly important.
新冠疫情终究会结束，但在我们欣赏明媚春光的时候，不能“好了伤疤忘了疼”。
The new crown will come to an end, but we can't "get over the scars and forget the pain" while we enjoy the bright spring light.
由于很长时间没有发生世界性的大流行病，各国普遍有所懈怠，在疫情中暴露出了诸多漏洞。
As there has not been a worldwide pandemic for a long time, countries have generally been slack, exposing many loopholes in the epidemic.
病毒对人类的威胁可能会永远存在，在彻底破解它的奥秘之前，守住人类阵地的唯一办法便是在平时加大对公共卫生系统的投入，建立一个高效的卫生监测、反应系统，这是给所有人购买的一份保险。
Until the mystery of the virus, which may forever threaten humanity, is completely unravelled, the only way to hold human ground is to invest more in the public health system on a regular basis and to establish an efficient health surveillance and response system, which is an insurance policy for all.
策划：中经补课委员会文案：寒潭清校对：翟军推荐阅读点击大图|油价暴跌，世界经济的临界点来了？点击大图|水比油贵！石油“三国杀”致油价暴跌30%...国内油价再现“5元时代”？。
2007-9-25 21: 48 China's oil prices have plummeted and the world economy has reached a tipping point.The oil price has plummeted by 30% as a result of the "Three Killings" - a return to the "$5 era" in domestic oil prices?
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
病毒退去后，疾控体系该如何补漏？。
After the virus recedes, how should disease control system fill in leak?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "中国经营报";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "病毒退去后，疾控体系该如何补漏？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; How did the disease control system leak when the virus retired?;
var msg_desc = "中国经营报 chinabusinessjournal";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Chinabusinessjournal & quot;;; China Business Newspaper.
title: '油价暴跌，世界经济的临界点来了？',。
& nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '中国经营报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '水比油贵！石油“三国杀”致油价暴跌30%...国内油价再现“5元时代”？',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '中国经营报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="中国经营报";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
