一只口罩的利益之旅。
A tour of the benefits of a mask.
时尚先生。
Mr. Fashion.
时尚先生                      。
Mr. Fashion.
时尚先生。
Mr. Fashion.
时尚造就先生，先生定义时尚。
Fashion makes a gentleman, sir defines fashion.
。
.
文/谢如颖编辑/杜强自从新冠肺炎证实人传人以来，各类口罩——尤其是医用防护口罩（N95）——的全国性脱销似乎只在一夜之间。
Since human-to-human transmission of new crown pneumonia has been confirmed, national sales of all types of masks - especially medical masks (N95) - appear to have occurred only overnight.
一位业内人士告诉《时尚先生 Esquire》，全国的口罩产能在 1480 万左右（自国家发改委 2 月 3 号消息），但中国 14 亿人口，假设 5% 的人每天佩戴一次口罩，口罩每天的需求量是 7000 万。
According to Esquire, a fashion insider, China has a capacity of about 14.8 million masks nationwide (since the NDRC Feb. 3 news), but for a population of 1.4 billion people, assuming 5% wear masks once a day, the daily demand for masks is 70 million.
急迫需求和产能之间的缺口一时难以填补。
The gap between immediate needs and capacity is hard to close.
《时尚先生 Esquire》追溯了口罩供应链上的各个环节，发现这是一个人心扰动的行业，有暴利，有困惑，也有被责任驱动的抉择。
Esquire traces every link in the mask supply chain and finds it a perturbed industry with big profits, confusion and accountability-driven choices.
进退维谷的商家对于国内的口罩生产商来说，疫情发生在一个糟糕的时间点：工人回家，原料短缺，城市封闭。
For domestic mask makers, the epidemic comes at a bad time: workers come home, raw materials are scarce, and cities are closed.
他们应对的是一场凶猛的突然袭击。
They were dealing with a violent surprise attack.
刘学凯（河南戈尔医疗负责人）：快过年的时候，疫情爆发，全国急需口罩，我们重新把工人召集过来。
Liu Xuekai (Henan Gore Medical Director): Towards the end of the New Year, when the outbreak of the epidemic, the country badly needed masks, we re-called workers.
头几天工人没太大反应，后面工资翻三倍、吃住都包，有些才同意的。
In the first few days, the workers did not respond very much, and then triple their wages, eat and live in bags, some agreed.
1 月 18 号我找了趟班车，把已经回家的 20 多位工人拉回厂里。
On January 18th I found a bus and took back more than 20 workers who had already returned home.
厂里有 8 条生产线，满负荷的话需要 100 多员工。
There are eight production lines in the factory, which need more than 100 employees at full capacity.
好在现在员工都已到岗，政府给了支持和补贴。
Fortunately, now that the staff have arrived, the government has given support and subsidies.
我们现在简直不知道是白天还是黑夜，24 小时生产，2 班倒，每个工人一天工作十来个小时，原本熟练工工资一天 80 元左右，现在一线员工一天能拿到 500。
We simply do not know whether it is day or night, 24-hour production, two shifts, each worker working about ten hours a day, the original skilled worker's salary of about 80 yuan a day, now front-line workers can get 500 a day.
普通员工的工资也在 300 左右。
The average employee's salary is around 300.
但现在问题是原材料非常紧缺啊。
But the problem now is that raw materials are in short supply.
外地出原材料的都封城，有的得提供政府公文。
Outbound sources of raw materials are sealed off, and some have to provide government documents.
除夕当晚凌晨一两点，所有原材料用尽了，连塑料包装袋都没了，大年初一不得不休息一天。
On New Year's Eve one or two in the morning, all the raw materials, even plastic bags are gone, the first day had to rest a day.
大年初二，公司采购经理带着 30 万现金去山东临沂的工厂进无纺布。
On the second day of the Lunar New Year, the company's purchasing manager took 300,000 cash to Linyi's factory in Shandong Province into nonwoven fabrics.
对方不保证能装满货车。
There's no guarantee it will be full.
我说，要是不装满车，我以后再也不会进你的货。
I said, if I don't fill my car, I'll never come into your goods again.
国内质量比较好的熔喷布的进价从 2 万 4 不断涨到了 4 万 5。
At home, the purchase price for better quality molten cloth has risen from 24 to 45.
这两天熔喷布吃紧，迫不得已工厂休息了半天，等晚上熔喷布到了继续加工。
These two days of melts are tight, forced the factory to rest half a day, and so evening melt cloth to continue processing.
口罩并不是一个赚钱产业，医用外科或一次性医用口罩的利润大概在几分钱。
Masks are not a lucrative business, and medical surgeries or disposable medical masks are worth about a few cents.
你现在不是说赔不赔的事了，你只要有机器，你只要有证件，有注册证，你是个口罩厂就有义务地去做。
You're not saying you're not making amends. You just need a machine, you need a certificate, you have a license, and you're a mask manufacturer and you have a duty to do it.
因为啥？这个社会现在确实需要这些，你不做从良心上也（说不过去），现在机器能转动的必须转动起来，不能停。
Because what? This society really needs these now, you do not do from conscience (can not excuse), now the machine can turn must turn, can not stop.
孙颖（某高端口罩品牌负责人）：过去几年中国雾霾治理成果让大部分的口罩厂都濒临灭绝。
Sun Ying (head of a high-end mask brand): China's haze management efforts over the past few years have left most of its mask factories threatened with extinction.
我现在开玩笑说，这是一个情怀产品、赖生意，你哪儿控制得住？有雾霾才能卖口罩。
I'm joking now that this is a sentimental product that depends on business. Where can you control it? Haze can sell masks.
17 年口罩上线以来，我们卖了差不多 60 万只，其中有 50 万只是卖产品送的，送口罩人家说，「算了，还是给我一张 20 块钱的天猫卡吧」。
Since the mask went on line in 17 years, we have sold nearly 600,000 of them, half a million of them for sale, and the mask-giver said, "Well, give me a $20 cat card."
我们产品放仓库存了两年半，头都大了。
Our products have been stored in the warehouse for two and a half years.
在双十一之前，免费送了人家 14000 盒，不然再放半年就过期了。
Before the Double-Eleven, 14, 000 boxes were given away for free, or they would have expired after half a year.
代工厂天天催我说剩下的订单你什么时候生产，备好的原料放在代工厂的仓库里，他说你再不生产就都报废了，我也很痛苦，他也很痛苦。
The factory urged me every day when you would make the remaining orders and keep the raw materials in the warehouse of the factory. He said that if you don't produce them, you will be scrapped.
我真的一点都不浮夸地说，做出口罩第一年我特别开心，觉得这款舒适性更好。
I really didn't brag about how much I enjoyed the first year of making the mask and thought it was better.
我送朋友，但因为没有雾霾了，所有人都不要，半年之后觉得人家不理我，就不送了。
I sent friends, but because there is no fog haze, everyone do not, six months later feel ignored me, do not send.
到现在把剩余的十万只库存卖了，算算账，整体亏了小三百万。
By now, we have sold the remaining 100, 000 stock, calculating the total loss of 3 million small.
这次疫情，如果我们「运气」比较好的话，说不定能保本，这叫什么？你说这种生意有人做吗？我们的那家代工厂，他 2017 年看到雾霾特别厉害，觉得口罩要爆发，把房子都抵押了，加上原来辛苦挣的钱，做这个口罩厂。
If we were "lucky," we might be able to save money. What is this called? Do you think this business is being done? Our factory, which saw a particularly heavy haze in 2017, felt that the mask was about to explode, mortgaged the house, plus the hard-earned money to make the mask factory.
三年过去了，真的是凭本事把这三百万亏完了。
Three years had passed, and the three millions had really been lost on merit.
今年元旦他还跟我说，实在撑不住就算了。
He told me on New Year's Day that he couldn't handle it.
关厂之前，突然无数人给他拿了无数订单，我给他打电话，他说我这辈子没见过这么多人捧着钱给他说，你赶紧给我做口罩，但没产能，他做不出来。
Before closing the factory, I called him with countless orders. He said I had never seen so many people with money in my life saying, 'You make me a mask quickly, but he can't do it.
工人腊月二十都已经放假了，春节谁不回家？过去一两年这种惨淡经营，那老板都恨不得你赶紧回家吧，再也不要来了。
The workers are all holiday on the 20th, who do not return home for the Spring Festival? The past year or two of this bleak business, the boss would like you to hurry home, never to come again.
所以，这两个因素加在一起，后期再想叫人来，工人已经叫不回来了。
So, when the two factors are added together, and a call is made at a later time, the workman cannot be called back.
我们的代工厂，我腊月二十七给打电话，我说你就二傻子，你为什么不出三倍工资给人，让他过来？他说亏怕了，不敢出这个钱。
Our factory, I called 27, I said you are a fool, why don't you pay three times wages to let him come over? He said he was afraid to give out the money.
三十那天，疫情看着特别吓人，我们发了通知，全体员工停止休假，兵分三路，其中一路去工厂。
Thirty days, the outbreak looked particularly frightening, we issued a notice, the staff stopped vacation, soldiers divided into three ways, one of the way to the factory.
代工厂已经没有工人了，老板光杆司令一个人坐在那儿哭笑不得的，电话都接不过来。
There were no workers in the factory and the boss, Commander Guangzhu, sat there crying and laughing and couldn't even answer the phone.
没办法，我们派十个自己的员工去。
We can't help it. We'll send ten of our employees.
初三初四我们直接四倍工资找了十几个临时工，把我们的人都顶出来，一方面他们效率低，另一方面因为太危险了。
On the one hand, they are inefficient, on the other hand, they are too dangerous. On the other hand, they are very dangerous.
我们同事所在的小区已经有一个人确诊了，确诊那户 5 号楼，他们是 8 号楼。
Our colleagues in the community has a confirmed diagnosis, confirmed that the fifth building, they are the eighth building.
昨天上午我已经把所有人全部撤出来，都在家蹲着。
I pulled everyone out yesterday morning, all squatting at home.
我说情愿停工，也不能再冒生命危险干这个事。
I said I would rather stop work than risk my life to do it again.
金鱼（湖北仙桃相关人士）：我亲戚是湖北仙桃一个口罩厂的老板。
Goldfish (Hubei Xiantao related people): My relative is the owner of a mask factory in Xiantao, Hubei Province.
疫情发生后工厂急忙召回工人，有的回不来，封城了，有的不敢来。
After the outbreak of the factory recalled workers, some could not return, closed the city, some did not dare to come.
像我们开 8 倍工资都没有人愿意过来，请不到工人就自己家人去上班，只能这样。
No one wants to come in like us for eight times the salary. We have to hire workers to work for their families.
原本一天工资 90-100 元，现在最高能有 870 元。
The wage used to be 90-100 yuan a day, but now it can be as high as 870 yuan.
2 月 1 号，当地政府关停了仙桃大量民用防护型口罩厂。
On February 1, local authorities shut down a large number of civilian respirators factories in Xiantao.
作为中国最大的口罩基地之一，仙桃的口罩起码供给武汉是供得起的，然而武汉都这么窘迫，肯定有问题。
As one of the largest mask bases in China, Xiantao masks at least supply Wuhan is affordable, but Wuhan is so embarrassed, there must be a problem.
现在口罩市场价这么高，炒到三四块一个。
Now the market price of masks so high, speculation three or four dollars a.
民用口罩厂不生产，市场供应关系超出了一个正常范围，这是什么促进手段？有人说人家贩卖高价口罩，供给关系肯定应该打开，是不是？我们就可以以低价平衡这个市场，是吧？口罩大概在一个波动的范围，就是两块、一块或者一块五左右，这样一个价格群众才能接受。
What is the boost to the fact that the civilian mask factory is not producing and the market supply relationship is beyond a normal range? Some people say that people are selling expensive masks and the supply relationship should certainly be opened, right? We can balance the market at low prices, right? Mask masks fluctuate in a range of about two, one or five dollars, which is acceptable to the public.
你也不用去打击什么高价。
You don't have to hit high prices.
价格疯涨跟生产环节的人工不足、原料短缺相比，流通环节的扰乱是加倍的。
The price soaring and the production link's labor shortage, the raw material shortage comparison, the circulation link disturbance is double.
有人趁机大发其财，也有人凭良心行事。
There are those who make a fortune and those who act on their conscience.
小刘（医用外科口罩经销商）：20 号那天我在公司搞卫生，突然有人打电话问我，「口罩你确定能发货吗，你确定能发货吗？求求你发货。
Xiao Liu (Medical Surgery Mask Dealer): On the 20th, I was doing some cleaning in my company when someone called me and asked me, "Are you sure you can deliver the mask? Are you sure you can deliver the product? Please deliver the product."
」说得我真的心肠都软了。
"My heart is softened by that.
我仓库里还有一些，我就说可以。
I still have some in the warehouse, so I said yes.
之后，他们就在豆瓣那里推。
After that, they pushed on the petal.
一个小时下了七百个单，把我吓疯了，平常一天最多接三十个单。
I was scared out of my mind by seven hundred orders in an hour, usually up to thirty in a day.
我们是做医疗用品的，本来是对公给医院的，个人买的都很少，搞大清洁的时候戴一下就可以了。
We do medical supplies, was originally to the public hospital, the personal purchase is very few, do big cleaning time to wear it.
后来我才晓得是疫情。
Then I knew it was an epidemic.
我们设的库存都是很随意的，他们一下子抢购得太快了，我赶快把库存改了，最后就下架了。
We set up a very casual inventory, they quickly snapped up too quickly, I quickly changed the inventory, and finally left the shelf.
年底谁会囤那么多货？囤越多，钱就越多。
Who will hoard so much at the end of the year? The more money you hoard, the more money you have.
我连夜打电话给厂家，第二天开着车蹲在门口，要不我根本发不出去。
I called the factory overnight and squatted at the door the next day, or I couldn't get out.
后来厂家货给我拿空了，没办法。
Then the manufacturer gave me empty goods, there is no way.
本来还有将近五十来单没有发出去，我只能跟他们打电话解释。
I had to call them to explain that there were nearly fifty undelivered tickets.
刚开始的时候我们是卖 25 一包，一包一百个，因为厂家那边说拿不着货，我就改了一下，最后涨到 40 块钱一包。
At first we were selling 25 packs a hundred, because the manufacturer said we couldn't get the goods, so I changed them and went up to 40 yuan a pack.
同行的价格炒得太高了。
The price of the trade is too high.
刚开始一块、两块、三块，都是按个算，后来炒到一包四百、五百，六百都有了。
At first one, two and three pieces, all calculated, and then hype a package of four hundred, five hundred, six hundred.
还有人发布 15 块钱一个。
There was also a release of $15 a piece.
我说我如果跟他们一样做推手的话，那根本就对不起我们自己的从业道德。
When I say I do the same thing as they do, I'm not being ethical at all.
小斯（某医用 N95 口罩零售商）：20 号疫情消息传出来，我就换了家快递，把几只医用 N95 口罩的打包价下调了 20，然后有人开始骂我，让我补差价，还说我国难当头擅自调价，真的非常寒心。
Xiao Si (a retailer of N95 mask for medical use): When the news of the epidemic came out on the 20th, I changed the package price of some medical N95 masks by 20%. Then someone started scolding me and asked me to make up the difference.
那段时间，进货经销商不给单据，他们也怕被查，我能理解。
At that time, the buying dealer did not give the documents, they were afraid of being checked, I understand.
现在口罩厂的普通员工日工资都快到七八百了，确实成本涨了很多。
Now the average staff of mask factory pay nearly seven or eight hundred per day, the cost has increased a lot.
23 号，我的进价已经到 19 块一个了。
Twenty-three, my purchase price is 19 yuan already.
后来媒体有报道，一家药店口罩卖 25 元，进价 19 元，被吊销营业执照和罚款。
Later media reported that a pharmacy mask sold for 25 yuan, 19 yuan purchase price, was revoked business license and fines.
我看了非常害怕，我确实没有进货单据，理不正。
I looked very scared, I really did not have the bill of lading, unreasonable.
我打算卖了这批就不进了。
I'm gonna sell this and I'm not gonna make it.
我只是个学生，没多少积蓄，卖口罩只是我的副业，挣点生活费而已。
I'm just a student. I don't have much savings. Selling masks is just a sideline for me to earn a living.
但罚钱的话搞不好学费都没了，我承受不起。
But I can't afford to pay the fine if I lose my tuition.
金鱼（仙桃民众）：我从亲戚那里拿了一批货，有一批是民用 KN95 口罩，我卖人家十块钱，自己可能就赚一块钱，大家都觉得很便宜，大量要。
Goldfish (Peach People): I took a lot of goods from relatives, a batch of civilian KN95 masks, I sold people, I may earn a dollar, everyone feel very cheap, a lot.
后来有个客人他把我朋友圈屏蔽了，他还加了我朋友，我朋友突然和我说，「这不是你的图片吗？你看人家在网上卖 35 呢」。
Then there was a guest who shielded me from friends, and he added my friend, who suddenly said to me, "Isn't this your picture? You see people selling 35 on the Internet?"
我说啊？我找到他，跟他说我以后不会再给你供任何一个口罩的货，你以后不要找我合作。
I said? I found him and told him I wouldn't supply you with any more masks in the future. You don't want to cooperate with me in the future.
我说你能做第一次就能做第二次，以后你爱找谁去找谁。
I said you can do it the first time, and then you can go to whom you want to go.
他说什么买卖不成仁义在，我说你拿我的东西去卖还好意思跟我说仁义？他说我哪有啊？然后我就把我朋友的截图发给他，他就沉默了。
He said that the business is not good, I said you take my things to sell good to me? He said where I have ah? Then I sent him a screenshot of my friend, and he was silent.
我把他拉黑了。
I pulled him black.
我当时就发现这个人真的是太恶心了，有人就会利用你的这种心。
I found out at that time that this person is really too disgusting, someone will take advantage of your heart.
我觉得不能再放低价了，要价 20 块钱。
I don't think I can lower the price any more. Twenty dollars.
有的人希望我能降价，从道德上攻击我，这样他好降进价，涨卖价。
Some people wanted me to lower the price and attack me morally so that he could buy less and sell more.
但我不变了，这样他就很难放高价。
But I don't change, so it's hard for him to pay high prices.
公益人陈先生：1 月 31 号凌晨 2 点，在我们一个物资募集群里，朋友说刚咬咬牙，拿下 2 万个口罩，4 块钱一个，我一看图心都碎了，就是普通的医用外科口罩。
Mr. Chen: On January 31, at 2: 00 a.m., in one of our collection of supplies, friends said just gnash teeth, take down 20,000 masks, four yuan a, I looked at the heart is broken, is a common medical surgical mask.
在此之前半小时，我面临同样的选择：普通外科口罩，4 块 5 毛一个，1 万个，说半小时不付款，就没了。
Half an hour before that, I was faced with the same choice: a general surgical mask, four dollars fifty cents, ten thousand, and said if I didn't pay for half an hour, it would be gone.
我犹豫了几分钟，决定放弃。
I hesitated for a few minutes and decided to give up.
就在这个价格的前一天，我们刚刚向湖北捐赠了 20 万个同样规格的口罩，是 1 块钱一个。
Just the day before that price, we had donated 200,000 masks of the same size, one for Hubei.
同样的口罩，几个月前批量采购只要 4 毛钱，药店零售也才 6 毛钱。
The same mask was purchased in bulk a few months ago for only 40 cents and retail at pharmacies for only 60 cents.
郑鹤红（某慈善组织创建人之一）：我们从 20 号到 23 号就开始采购物资，23 号付给某品牌口罩的大经销商 100 万货款，定了 8 万只医用 N95 口罩。
Zheng Hehong (one of the founders of a charity): We started buying supplies from the 20th to 23rd, paying a million dollars to a major dealer for a brand mask and ordering 80,000 medical N95 masks.
等了一天多这个口罩量才生产出来。
It took more than a day for the mask to be produced.
然后在厂门口，你知道发生了什么事吗？经销商把这批口罩转手卖给了二道贩子，我们的志愿者在门口就守着这批货，等着清点，就打起来了。
Then at the gate of the factory, do you know what happened? The dealer sold the masks to two dealers, and our volunteers guarded the goods at the gate, waiting for the count to begin.
第二天说，经销商答应再补回来 4 万个，一半。
The next day, the dealer promised to replace another 40,000, half.
到现在一个都没发出来。
Not one of them has been sent yet.
我们后来找遍了各种购买渠道。
We went through all kinds of buying channels.
我一说价格，10 块钱左右，人家都不回复我，估计都把我拉黑了。
When I say the price, about ten dollars, people do not reply to me, it is estimated that I have been black.
还有个说他手里有 30 万个口罩，让他报个价，30 块钱一个，好吧，我拉黑他吧。
Another said he had 300,000 masks in his hand and asked him to quote him 30 yuan for one. Okay, I'll blacken him.
其他的就是没货。
The rest is out of stock.
原因非常简单，慈善机构的价格是限死的，我们要是报价 25 一个的话，都不用发货，民众的口水就把我们淹死了。
The reason is very simple, charity prices are limited, if we quote a 25, we do not have to deliver goods, the public drool drowned us.
卖给我们，又没有利润，人家还不如去维护客户，卖高价，还能赚一笔。
Sell to us, do not have profit, others might as well defend customer, sell high price, still can make a profit.
14 块钱是中国思源基金会购买口罩的价格，它是国家一级公募基金会，最开始一两天网友骂的都是它。
Fourteen yuan is the price of masks purchased by the China Siyuan Foundation, a state-level public fund that netizens scold for a day or two.
所以我们考虑只能 12 块钱之内，一旦被骂你的名誉全都没了，骂你吃回扣。
So we consider only 12 dollars, once the name of your scold all gone, scold you to eat kickbacks.
你不做，你说采购不到，是不会挨骂的，对吧？我们后来又得到了货源，境外的，可以直接邮寄中国。
If you don't do it, you say you can't get it, you won't get scolded, will you? We'll get a source later, and overseas, you can send it directly to China.
我们在商量怎么下单采购、核对数量，然后同伴说不行，因为是境外物资，新的文件要求境外（物资）到了海关自动归属湖北红会、慈善总会。
We are discussing how to order, check the quantity, and then the companion said no, because it is foreign goods, the new documents require the overseas (goods) to automatically belong to the Hubei Red Cross Society, the General Association of Charity.
文件特别详细，真的花了很多的心思。
The document was particularly detailed and really put a lot of thought into it.
我从事公益 17 年了，今年的经历我闻所未闻、见所未见，把我们给掐死了。
I've been a volunteer for 17 years, and I've been strangled to death by experience I've never heard of or seen this year.
过去在汶川和玉树，我们的身份还是很小的，都可以顺畅地去做救助。
In the past in Wenchuan and Yushu, our identity is still very small, are able to do relief smoothly.
2010 年玉树地震的时候，我们认识的一个主任，他现在已经是院长了，亲自带队去支援湖北武汉，他向我们求助，要防护物资。
When the Yushu earthquake in 2010, we know a director, he is now a dean, personally led the team to support Hubei Wuhan, he asked us for help, protection materials.
他本身是一个外科专家，地位、名声、钱都有了，亲自带队进去，特别负责任，对不对？跟我们说防护物资不够了，求我们给他一点，我们十年的救助伙伴，给不到他手里。
He's a surgeon himself, with status, fame, and money, and he's taking the team in on his own, isn't he? Tell us there's not enough protective gear, so please give him some of our ten-year-old rescuers.
孙颖（某高端口罩品牌负责人）：我们的口罩很晚才被挖出来，因为别人一定是先买一块钱的口罩，再买五块钱的口罩，最后才买更贵的口罩。
Sun Ying (head of a high-end mask brand): Our masks were dug up very late, because someone must have bought a dollar mask first and then a five-dollar mask before finally buying a more expensive one.
一定是这样对不对？我们自己口罩的变化从 20 号开始。
That must be right, isn't it? The change in our own mask starts on the 20th.
钟南山说要戴口罩当天，基本上就断货了，还剩了不到 10 万只。
Zhong Nan Shan said to wear masks on the day, basically out of stock, there are less than 100,000 left.
线下卖了 5 万只，线上卖了 5 万只。
Fifty thousand sold offline and 50,000 online.
我们自己都没当回事说卖就卖了，赶紧弄完拉倒，到年三十那天发现情况不对了。
We are not serious about selling to sell, hurriedly pull down, by the thirtieth day found that the situation is not right.
有人在淘宝上开店卖我们的口罩，价格直接翻了十倍，你说这不是疯掉了吗？我们只能去投诉它，最后能成什么效果，现在我们也没有办法。
Some people on Taobao shop to sell our masks, the price has directly increased tenfold, do you think this is crazy? We can only complain about it, the final results, we have no way.
也有人找到我，说一盒给我加多少钱，我说哪儿凉快哪儿待去。
Someone came to me and said how much money I should get a box, and I said where to cool off.
包括某家电商平台都找到过我，我都没有给，给了我们后期就完全失控，失控最后受损失的一定是我们。
Including a home appliance merchant platform have found me, I did not give to us later on completely out of control, lost control of the final loss must be us.
大年三十，我们把所有地方能够找到的口罩，大概一万只全部拿出来，当天上午十点在网上全部卖出去了。
In the New Year's Eve, we took out about 10,000 masks that could be found anywhere, and sold them online at 10 a.m. that morning.
我们的订单量和流量比双十一涨了十倍，都是来骂你的：你为什么没有货，没货为什么还挂在上面，物流什么时候发货，为什么看不了快递？然后还有各种的宣泄啊：你为什么故意不卖给我，你卖这么贵还不卖给我，又伺候哪个老爷去了？各种破口大骂，有的直接问候祖宗。
Our orders and traffic are ten times higher than those of Double-Eleven, and they come to scold you: Why don't you have them, why they hang on them, when is the logistics delivery, why can't we see them? And then all kinds of catharsis: Why didn't you sell it to me and then wait on me?
当然还有投诉，说你们为什么涨价。
And of course there's the complaint about why you raised prices.
这个事很搞笑的，他们给天猫投诉，给工商局投诉，投诉我们为什么涨到原价上去。
It's funny, they complain to the cat, to the Commerce and Industry Bureau, about why we went up to the original price.
昨天上午工商局的人还来，说你们怎么涨价了，我说没涨价啊，最后他走了，你说这多无聊不是。
Yesterday morning the people from the Commerce and Industry Bureau also came and said why did you increase the price? I said there was no increase in the price.
全球采购国内渠道难以指望，越来越多人盯上了国外。
Domestic sources of global procurement are hardly to be expected, and more and more people are looking abroad.
但随着疫情在其他国家爆发，此举也引发了争议。
But it has also sparked controversy as outbreaks have erupted in other countries.
2 月 2 号晚上，美国、澳洲、土耳其、韩国、越南、印尼、印度、新加坡等国家开始禁止大批量出口口罩。
On the night of February 2, the United States, Australia, Turkey, South Korea, Vietnam, Indonesia, India, Singapore and other countries began banning large-scale export of masks.
许许（中欧商学院深圳校友会秘书）：除夕前一天，我们的校友企业要往前线捐物资，希望大家提供货源。
Xu Xu (Secretary of Shenzhen Alumni Association of the Central European Business School): The day before New Year's Eve, our alumni enterprise will donate materials to the front line.
我们联系到了各国的医疗物资购买渠道，在澳洲、南非、印度等地订购了十几万个医用 N95 口罩。
We have contacted various countries to purchase medical supplies, Australia, South Africa, India and other places to order tens of thousands of medical N95 masks.
联系到韩国中间商时，刚开始价格是 10-11 块一个，我赶忙定了 10 万个。
When I contacted the Korean middleman, the initial price was 10-11 yuan, I hastened to order 100,000.
后面我又订了 5 万个，两天后中间商说厂家要涨价，涨到 13 块，而后又涨到 15 块，我同意了。
After I ordered 50,000, two days later the middleman said that the manufacturer would increase the price to 13 yuan, then to 15 yuan, I agreed.
但隔天早上我接到电话，这批货要涨到 18 块。
But the next morning I got a phone call and the order went up to 18 dollars.
我说不可能，18 块的话我们没必要参与物资竞价，最后涨价都涨到自己人手上。
I said no way, 18 words we do not need to participate in the bidding, and eventually the price rose to their own hands.
最后以 15 块确定了下来。
Finally, it was determined with 15 pieces.
王宇宇（国内某外贸公司负责人）：腊月 24 那天就有人问我，韩国有一批口罩，差不多有 500 万只，你要不要？这跟炒期货似的，谁敢买啊？腊月 28 那天，我们一开会一算账，完蛋了，中国的口罩不可能供应上。
Wang Yuyu (head of a foreign trade company in China): I was asked on the 24th of July that there were a lot of masks in Korea, almost five million. Would you like to buy them?
我们一个同事带人直接杀到韩国，韩国是除了中国之外，全球第二大口罩生产国家。
One of our colleagues went straight to South Korea, the world's second-largest producer of masks except China.
当时的想法是平抑市场。
The idea was to calm markets.
那时我们手里至少抓了 500 万只口罩的订单，其中的 300 万只我们交了 30 万定金给韩国厂家。
We had orders for at least five million masks, 3 million of which we paid a deposit of 300,000 to Korean manufacturers.
虽说定了，但是心里非常纠结，你敢要吗？那时口罩在韩国才不到三块钱。
Although determined, but the heart is very tangled, do you dare to take? At that time the mask in Korea is less than three dollars.
同事年三十晚上回来，初二又杀过去了，因为对方已经反悔了，赔了 30 万。
Colleagues came back in the evening of the second day of junior high, because the other side has been remorseful, lost 300,000.
他说 30 万我做不了你的订单了，转手给了中国另一个公司，对方出了两倍多的价格，用现金把这 300 万订单截胡走了。
He said I couldn't do your order any more than 300,000 and resold it to another company in China, who paid more than twice as much to take the three million orders in cash and cut them off.
政府征用之后1 月 26 日，国务院强调要统筹调配全国医疗物资，大部分口罩厂被政府征用，优先保障物资最紧缺的湖北和武汉，产品不再销售于经销商。
On January 26, following the government's requisition, the State Council stressed the need to coordinate the deployment of medical supplies across the country.Most of the mask factories were requisitioned by the government, giving priority to Hubei and Wuhan, where supplies are most scarce.
医用口罩成为了国家管控类产品。
Medical masks have become a state-controlled product.
刘学凯（河南戈尔医疗负责人）：现在我们就是政府管控，拿政府批文和调货单，我们放货。
Liu Xuekai (Henan Gore Medical Director): Now we are the government control, take the government approval and the transfer order, we ship the goods.
当然也有极个别的。
There are, of course, very few.
医院开救护车来拉，也是给医院一些。
The hospital drove an ambulance to pull, also for the hospital.
今天陕西那边来了两三波，到现在陕西的救护车还在门口停着呢。
Today, two or three waves came from Shaanxi, and now ambulances from Shaanxi are still waiting at the door.
不给人家确实感觉不好意思。
It's really embarrassing not to give.
他们说他们医院护士啥的口罩戴都不够，都没有，就是消消毒自己还用，确实国家这块量还是不够用的。
They said that their hospital nurses and other masks are not enough to wear, are not used to sterilize their own use, it is true that the amount of the state is not enough.
人家来了就给人家拿个一箱两箱的。
When they arrive, they get a case or two of it.
孙颖（某高端口罩品牌负责人）：前几天我们的代工厂被征用，政府清点库存，确认有多少产能，多少人在生产，并且让他们以最快速度出产品。
Sun Ying (someone in charge of a high-end mask brand): The other day our factories were requisitioned, the government took stock, determined how much capacity there was, how many people were producing, and let them produce their products as quickly as possible.
我们的产品也拿给厂家看了，对方说你们（的产品制造起来）太慢了，不太合适。
We also showed our products to the manufacturers. The other side said that your products are too slow and not suitable.
商量后，分给了我们一些产线，但那些产线维护更新就需要1、2个月，还不如直接买新的。
After discussion, we were assigned some production lines, but those production line maintenance update needs a month or two, rather than buy a new one.
现在我们在代工厂对面找了一个地方，准备建一台生产线，自己找工人，最快速度复工。
Now we are looking for a place across the factory to build a production line, find our own workers, and get back to work as quickly as possible.
现在产能每天两三千只，愁的要死，都不够顾客朋友分的。
Now production capacity of two or three thousand a day, worried to death, are not enough customer friends to divide.
我自己也没有存货。
I don't have my own stock.
前几天我把放办公室放了N年的研发样品都翻出来，一箱，全部分出去了。
A few days ago, I put the office Nyear's research and development samples were turned out, a box, the whole part out.
我自己车里还有两盒口罩，20只，这是我们一家五口人的20只。
I still have two boxes of masks in my car, 20 of them, 20 of our five members.
年前给亲戚朋友送礼，我也不知道送什么，就送口罩，都是十盒十盒地送。
A few years ago to relatives and friends gifts, I do not know what to send, on the delivery of masks, are 10 boxes of 10.
昨天朋友给我发微信，他说今年送礼最贵重的就是你们，因为是保命的。
Yesterday my friend sent me a message saying that the most valuable gift this year is you, because it is life-saving.
口罩在哪里？自 1 月 20 号到 2 月 1 号，北京的市民服务热线中，有 9700 余名市民反映买不到口罩，5700 余名市民反映口罩涨价问题。
From January 20 to February 1, more than 9,700 residents of Beijing's Citizen's Service Hotline reported that they could not buy face masks, and more than 5,700 people complained of price increases.
石女士（北京民众）：从 1 月 20 号到现在，我没买到过一个口罩。
Ms. Shi (People's Republic of Beijing): I haven't bought a mask since January 20.
我去了家门口的 3 家药店，也尝试了淘宝、京东、拼多多、物美多点、京东七鲜超市、盒马超市、饿了么送药上门、美团送药上门，都买不到口罩。
I went to the door of the three pharmacies, but also tried Taobao, Jingdong, Duoduo, Jiandong seven fresh supermarkets, box horse supermarket, hungry to send medicine door, the United States Mission to send medicine door, can not buy masks.
我家有日本那种海绵口罩，后来发现这类口罩不符合要求。
My family has a Japanese-style sponge mask, which later turned out to be inadequate.
现在我出门只能带个海绵口罩再加个纱布口罩，先凑合着。
Now all I have to do is take a sponge mask and a gauze mask and make do with it.
毕竟家里蔬菜、水果和生活用品必须要出去买，开始物美多点还能送一些，这两天已经全部要求自提了，不频繁下楼买东西也不行了。
After all, vegetables, fruits and household goods have to go out to buy, the beginning of something beautiful can still send some, these two days have all asked for their own, not frequent shopping downstairs can not.
口罩也只能反复使用，每次出门回家用威露士洗了，晾干，吹风机加热吹一下，自己感觉还不错。
Masks can only be used repeatedly, each time they go home with Willow washed, dry, hair dryer heating blow, they feel good.
如果家里都是年轻人吃个一两星期方便面我自己也能忍，可家里 80 多岁的老人不行呀。
If the family is young people eat instant noodles for a week or two I can bear it myself, but the family in their 80s can not.
我要上医院拿老人必需的降压药，急需口罩。
I need to go to the hospital to get essential blood pressure medication. Mask urgently.
由于北京市政府没有公布病例具体发生在哪些医院，我们无法判断去医院拿药的风险有多大，去哪个医院或哪个社区医疗站更安全。
Since the city government did not disclose exactly which hospitals the cases were in, we could not tell how risky it was to go to the hospital and which hospital or community clinic was safer.
但老人的药又不能断。
But the old man's medicine could not be broken.
2 月 2 号，我在微博上 @ 各种北京生活相关的微博号，询问口罩供应和医院的事项，12345 市民服务热线答复建议我关注各大商场、药店售卖情况。
On February 2, I posted Weibo @ various microblogs related to life in Beijing, asking questions about mask supply and hospitals. The 12345 Citizen's Service Hotline responded by advising me to pay attention to the sale of major shopping malls and pharmacies.
我回复他们，要是每天上街到处关注，被传染了不是更得不偿失。
I told them that if I went out and looked around every day, being infected wouldn't be worth it.
最后对方说，「您的建议我们会转交职能部门，感谢您对我们的信任和关注。
Finally, the other side said, "Your suggestion will be forwarded to the competent authorities, thank you for your trust and attention.
」2 月 4 日，我又去了趟药店，药店只开了一半的门，门口用简易小桌阻挡着，桌上挂着告示：店内暂无酒精和口罩。
On February 4, I made another trip to the drugstore, which opened only half the door, which was blocked by a small table with signs saying there were no alcohol or face masks.
我又发了条微博：北京的口罩在哪里……（应受访者要求，文中个别身份信息匿名处理。
I sent another tweet: Where are the masks in Beijing... (At the request of the interviewee, the individual identity information is handled anonymously.
）C O N T R I B U T O R S（文中图片均来自于网络）责编：Neil执行：本本fine直击NEIL BARRETT米兰秀场，和王子异聊了33个真心话秀场很厉害，“超模异”很能聊疫情封城下，这位白血病姑娘想到了安乐死「当妈妈真的很痛苦，要是没做妈妈就没这么痛苦了。
) C O N T R I B U T O R S (pictured here are taken from the internet) .Neil: This movie was a direct hit on the NEIL BARRETT Milan show, and the prince had 33 truthful shows.
」__________________给我好看！。
The following is a good look at _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ for me.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一只口罩的利益之旅。
A tour of the benefits of a mask.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "时尚先生";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; Mr. & quot;.
var msg_title = "一只口罩的利益之旅";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; a mask.
var msg_desc = "我们追溯了口罩供应链上的各个环节，发现这是一个人心扰动的行业，有暴利，有困惑，也有被责任驱动的抉择。
var msg _ desc = & quot; We look back at every link in Mask's supply chain and find it a perturbed industry with huge profits, confusion, and responsibility-driven choices.
";。
;; & quot;
title: 'fine 直击 NEIL BARRETT 米兰秀场，和王子异聊了33个真心话',。
At & quot; line & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '时尚先生fine',。
subject _ name: & apos; fashion Mr. Fine & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '疫情封城下，这位白血病姑娘想到了安乐死',。
At the end of the day, the leukemia girl thought of & quot; & quot; euthanasia & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '时尚先生',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="时尚先生";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; Mr. & quot; & quot; & quot;.
