疫情封城下，这位白血病姑娘想到了安乐死。
The leukemia girl thought of euthanasia when the epidemic closed the city.
时尚先生。
Mr. Fashion.
时尚先生                      。
Mr. Fashion.
时尚先生。
Mr. Fashion.
时尚造就先生，先生定义时尚。
Fashion makes a gentleman, sir defines fashion.
。
.
万茹意告诉妈妈，「我走了之后，你们过几年就会把我忘了，你们就过你们自己的生活，养只狗遛一遛。
"When I'm gone, you'll forget me in a few years. You'll live your own life and have a dog for a walk.
」20 岁的万茹意身患白血病，已经第二次复发，她最后的希望是离开武汉，转往外省的医院。
"With leukemia, 20-year-old Vanjoe suffered a second relapse and her last hope was to leave Wuhan and move to a hospital in the province.
但武汉已经封城，她们出不去。
But Wuhan has been closed, they can not get out.
万茹意目前的状态口述/万茹意母亲采写/武奋丰（一）疫情阻挡了我们的脚步我的女儿在武汉上大学，我们是湖北孝感人。
/ [^ # 39 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 116] / vt. The situation stopped us from going to college in Wuhan.
今年 5 月 13 号女儿就 21 岁了。
My daughter turned 21 on May 13.
2019 年 5 月 28 号，女儿被确诊为急性淋巴细胞白血病，B 类，高危人群。
On 28 May 2019, the daughter was diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukemia, category B, a high-risk group.
我们现在在武汉协和医院的层流间病房，一天三百块钱。
We are now in the laminar ward of Wuhan Concorde Hospital for 300 yuan a day.
因为白血病血相很低，容易感染，层流间能隔绝外界。
Because leukaemia blood phase is very low, easy to infection, laminar flow can be isolated from the outside world.
血液科现在只出不进，这个病房里有三张床，两个病人。
The haematology department doesn't go in now. There are three beds and two patients in this ward.
这是女儿第四次入院，第二次复发。
It was her fourth hospital admission and her second relapse.
初五时，孩子开始腿疼，医院说初七才能做骨穿，初七做骨穿之后，医生又说推迟上班了，14 号才能查结果。
Junior 5, the children began to leg pain, the hospital said that the seventh day before bone piercing, after the doctor said to put off work, 14 to find out the results.
这个复查的结果，按理说三个工作日就能得到。
The results of this review should reasonably be available in three working days.
医院的解释是因为疫情，大家都没上班，医生要么调到一线去了，要么没上班，我们也不知道，教授是这么给的答复。
The hospital explained that everyone was out of work because of the outbreak, and the doctor either moved to the front line or did not come to work.
每次问他结果，都说没上班，等 2 月 14 号上班之后再说。
Every time he was asked about the results, he said he wasn't at work until after work on February 14.
前天，孩子的腿越来越疼，我们就找了院办，院办给教授打电话，教授就自己想办法看了结果，今天上午告诉我，复发了。
The day before yesterday, the child's legs more and more painful, we found a hospital, the college called the professor, the professor on his own way to see the results, told me this morning, relapse.
复发之后, 孩子病情特别严重，只能躺在床上，我要给她喂饭，她一直在低烧，十几天了，白血病的主要症状就是发热。
After the relapse, the child is particularly serious, can only lie in bed, I will feed her, she has been low fever, 10 days, the main symptom of leukaemia is fever.
她的双腿和胳膊基本上不能动，特别疼，翻身都很疼。
Her legs and arms were almost immobile, and she was in great pain, turning over in pain.
基本上只能靠一种止痛针，打一针，她就不疼了，能睡着。
It's basically a painkiller. With a shot, she doesn't feel any pain, she falls asleep.
止痛针一天打一针，现在打了两天，每针可以维持十几个小时。
The pain-killer is given an injection a day and now lasts for more than 10 hours for two days.
以前不打这个针的时候，腿放在那儿，都是疼的。
When I didn't use this needle, my leg was there, it hurt.
但止痛针容易上瘾。
But painkillers are addictive.
今天上午医生找我们谈话，问我们采取什么方案，（其实）唯一的方案就是化疗，没有别的方案了。
The doctor talked to us this morning and asked us what the plan was. (In fact) The only solution was chemotherapy. There was no other way.
医生跟我们说，因为孩子以前的靶点是 CD19，这些我以前也不懂，现在稍微懂了点。
The doctor told us that because the child's former target was CD19, which I didn't understand before, now I understand a little bit.
第一次复发后，做 Cart 治疗的时候 CD19 作为一个靶点，输入她的体内，让坏细胞转阴。
After the first relapse, CD19 served as a target for Cart treatment, feeding her into the body and turning the bad cells around.
现在坏细胞都转阴了，还是复发，也就是说她需要寻找新的靶点，新的靶点是 CD22，协和医院做不了，所以第二次 Cart 治疗无法实现——只能打化疗。
Now that the bad cells are overcast or relapsing, that is, she needs to find a new target, the new target is CD22, which Concorde can't do, so the second Cart treatment can't happen - only chemotherapy.
现在协和医院的能力已经治不了我们孩子的这个病了。
The capacity of Concorde's hospital is no longer sufficient to cure our children of this disease.
化疗只能缓解。
Chemotherapy is only remission.
医生跟我们说不要抱太大的希望，因为她前面已经做过三次化疗了，有耐药性，所以这次化疗希望很小。
The doctor told us not to hope too much, because she had been through chemotherapy three times before and was resistant to it, so there was little hope of chemotherapy.
我们就想能不能到别的更好的医院去进行治疗，去河北燕达陆道培医院，这个医院在河北燕郊。
We just want to see if we can go to a better hospital for treatment, Hebei Yanda Lu Daupe Hospital, this hospital in Hebei Yanjiao.
他们说那是全国最好的血液病医院，就治难治的、复发的白血病。
They say it's the best blood hospital in the country, treating refractory, relapsing leukaemia.
我想只要有一线希望，我都想闯出去。
I think I want to get out of here if there's a glimmer of hope.
但是疫情阻挡了我们的脚步。
But the epidemic is holding us back.
我怎么出去？根本出不去，武汉市都出不去，再有，人家医院怎么接收你？你来自湖北，疫情最重的城市，它不可能接收你，特别是来自湖北、武汉、协和医院的病人。
How can I get out? Wuhan city can not get out, and, how can people accept you? You come from Hubei, the most affected city, it is impossible to receive you, especially from Hubei, Wuhan, Concorde Hospital.
我想就算孩子有一线希望，我也要做百分之九十九的努力，她毕竟那么年轻，我不想让她这么快就走了。
I think I'll do ninety-nine percent, even if the child has a glimmer of hope. After all, she's so young that I don't want her to leave so soon.
我现在很绝望，精神崩溃，快疯了的感觉。
I'm desperate, I'm crashing, I'm crazy.
所以当妈妈真的很痛苦，要是没做妈妈就没这么痛苦了。
So being a mother is really painful, but not being a mother is not so painful.
我都不知道明天是什么，明天还能活下来吗？我自己能活下来吗？我求助了武汉市的市长热线，但解决不了，（电话那边）说不可能出城。
I don't know what tomorrow is, can I survive tomorrow? Can I survive myself? I called the mayor's hotline in Wuhan, but I couldn't.
和河北燕达陆道培医院联系，那边的医生说自己也是老百姓，也帮不了我们。
And Hebei Yanda Lu Daotui Hospital contact, there doctors said they are also common people, also can not help us.
我实在是没有办法，我才在微博上（发求助），不停地刷微博，我希望有人来帮助我。
I had no choice but to keep brushing microblogging on Weibo and I wanted someone to help me.
确诊之后，我们一直在做骨髓移植的准备。
After the diagnosis, we've been preparing for a bone marrow transplant.
做移植之前，女儿需要打三个化疗。
Before the transplant, her daughter needed three chemotherapy treatments.
第三次化疗如果一切正常，就可以做移植了。
The third dose of chemotherapy can be transplanted if all is well.
骨髓是她爸爸给她提供。
Her father gave her the marrow.
爸爸已经配型完了，他在积极地让自己的细胞更加健康更加活跃，然后给她输入进去，让它能健康地在她身体里长大，让她的免疫系统重建。
Papa was finished, actively making her cells healthier and more active, then feeding her in so that she could grow up healthy and her immune system would be rebuilt.
我当时都去上课了，就是给家属陪护的课，移植前的准备工作，包括送饭、注意事项，也（根据医院给的清单）准备好了杯子、筷子、碗这些东西。
I went to class, the accompanying classes, the preparation for the transplant, including food delivery, notes, and (according to the list from the hospital) prepared cups, chopsticks, bowls and so on.
第三次化疗是 9 月 24 号到 10 月 24 号，11 月 1 号进行复查，11 月 5 号医生通知我们复发了。
The third chemotherapy regimen lasted from September 24 to October 24, and was reviewed on Nov. 1, when the doctor told us there had been a relapse.
复发就是身体里的癌细胞又长起来了。
A relapse is when the cancer cells in the body grow again.
肿瘤负荷很高，不能进移植仓，进了移植仓，才能做移植手术。
The tumor was so loaded that it could not be transplanted into a barn, where it could not be transplanted.
因为疫情，现在协和医院的移植仓已经关闭。
Because of the outbreak, the transplant facility at Concorde Hospital is now closed.
11 月 11 号，我们来协和住院，这是女儿第四次入院，到现在也没出院。
On Nov. 11, we were admitted to Concorde Hospital for the fourth time. She is still in hospital.
（这次）教授建议 Cart 治疗，因为像女儿这种病情，再做化疗，癌细胞有可能还是打不下去，因为她有耐药性了。
The professor advised Cart to take care of it because, like her daughter, with chemotherapy, cancer cells might not be able to fight because she is resistant.
然后我们就做了 Cart，就是细胞免疫疗法，Cart 治疗的作用就是缓解，把癌细胞打到零之后立马进移植仓，输入新鲜的健康的细胞，比如说她爸爸的细胞，相当于重建身体。
And then we did Cart, the cellular immunotherapy that relaxes cancer cells to zero and then goes right into the transplanter and feeds fresh, healthy cells, like her father's, that are the equivalent of rebuilding the body.
11 月 30 号，女儿开始用 Cart 治疗，我们抱了很大的希望。
On November 30th, our daughter began treatment with Cart, and we had great hopes.
本来计划这次 Cart 治疗 89 天后，就可以做这个（移植）手术，但没有坚持到，现在才两个月，病又复发了。
Cart was supposed to have the transplant 89 days after treatment, but she didn't make it. Now it's only two months and it's back.
这个疫情把她生的路都阻截了，就像我微博上说的，路已经没有了，全部断了。
The epidemic has blocked her path, as I said on my microblog, the road is gone, it's all off.
之前就在微博上发过求助，但是关注度不大，我今天说了「安乐死」，大家对这个特别敏感。
Before the micro-blog on the help, but attention is not big, I said "euthanasia" today, we are particularly sensitive to this.
其实她十一月份，比现在还难受的时候我就想写，但是我不敢写，那时候还有路可走，还没有这个疫情，还可以出去治，但你现在到哪儿去呢？插翅难飞。
In fact, I wanted to write in November, when it was worse than it is now, but I dared not write; there was still a way to go, there was no epidemic, and you could go out and cure it, but where are you going now?
如果路通着，对方的医院接收，我还有点希望，至少我努力了。
If the road is open and the other side of the hospital receives, I'm a little hopeful, at least I try.
现在努力都没有用，往哪儿努力？使不上劲儿。
It's no use trying now, where do you work hard?
万茹意所在病房的窗外（二）女儿和我说了安乐死今天医生找我谈完话，我躲在楼梯口哭了一场，哭完之后洗把冷水脸再进病房，不能在女儿面前哭。
Today, after the doctor had talked to me, I hid myself at the head of the stairs and cried. After crying, I washed my cold face into the hospital room and could not cry in front of my daughter.
但是她很敏感，她能看出来，她知道自己身上的病。
But she's sensitive. She can see it. She knows her illness.
后来女儿和我说了安乐死。
Then my daughter and I talked about euthanasia.
她哭着说的，眼泪止不住地往下流，我那会儿真的忍住了，没有哭。
'she cried, tears running down her cheeks, and I did not weep.
但是后面她越说越激动的时候，我就没有办法控制自己了。
But the more excited she became, the less I was able to control myself.
怎么办呢，我也想忍着不哭，想劝她，可是现在好像说什么也没有力量。
What to do, I also want to not cry, want to persuade her, but now seems to say nothing has no strength.
说什么呢？我都词穷，不知道说什么。
What do you say? I'm poor and I don't know what to say.
说「坚强」一点分量都没有，之前鼓励她的动力也没有了。
There was no weight in saying "strong," and there was no incentive to encourage her before.
之前说要往好处想，要好好治疗，爸爸妈妈一直陪着她，那么多爱她的人，亲朋好友都在支持她。
Before said to want to good, to treat well, her parents have been with her, so many love her people, friends and relatives are supporting her.
她姨奶奶、好多表舅、堂舅，很多人鼓励她，爱她的人特别多。
Her aunt, a lot of uncles, uncles, a lot of people encourage her, love her very much.
孩子就说，在这么多爱的包围下，我一定能治好的，可是我们现在都走到这个绝路上来了。
"The child said," I can be cured by all this love, but now we are all in this hopeless situation.
她说妈妈，我们能不能不治了，说我们遭罪，她也遭罪，说「我拖累了你们，你们也没有自己的生活，天天在医院里。
She said, Mom, we can't help it, we can't say we suffered, she suffered, "I'm a drag on you, and you don't have a life of your own, in the hospital every day."
」她说她痛恨这个医院。
"She said she hated the hospital.
一个病床上，她呆了几个月啊。
She was in a bed for a couple of months.
她只能躺在病床上，血小板很低的时候就不能离开病床，离开之后容易引起出血，出血就会引起死亡。
She can only lie on the bed, platelets are very low can not leave the bed, leaving easy to cause bleeding, bleeding will cause death.
她说爸爸妈妈，你们没有疼过，你们不知道那种疼痛让人绝望。
She said parents, you did not hurt, you do not know that the pain makes people despair.
孩子很早之前就提到安乐死了，她第一次复发就不想治了，当时是 11 月份。
The child mentioned euthanasia a long time ago, and she did not want to die for the first time. It was November.
她不怕化疗，呕吐，溃疡，拉肚子，掉头发，她怕疼痛。
She's not afraid of chemotherapy, vomiting, ulcers, diarrhea, hair loss. She's afraid of pain.
腿疼的时候，那种疼痛是我们这种健康人体会不到的，就是那种你永远都睡不着，疼得你撕心裂肺，脸部都疼得特别狰狞，生不如死，就是骨头像蹦出来，要裂了的感觉。
When the leg hurts, the pain is not experienced by a healthy person like us, it is the kind of pain you can never sleep, the pain in your heart and lungs, the pain in your face is particularly ferocious, life is not good for death, bone like pop out, to split the feeling.
她就不想治了。
She doesn't want a cure.
我们就说，教授说了，你还有治愈的手段，有的病人连治愈的手段都没有，所以我们就选择了这个 Cart。
Let's just say, Professor, you still have a cure, and some patients don't even have the means to cure it, so we chose this Cart.
当时她要自杀，也不想活，也不想治，我们就给她鼓励，给她信心，好多病友也来劝她。
She was about to commit suicide, not want to live, do not want to rule, we gave her encouragement, give her confidence, many sick friends also came to advise her.
可是第二次又复发了。
But the second time it recurred.
她真的没有想活的信念了。
She really doesn't believe in living.
（她疼的时候），我在旁边，只能看着她特别痛苦，摸摸她的头，摸摸她的手。
(When she is in pain) I was there, looking at her in particular pain, touching her head and touching her hand.
平时她都不让碰，因为这个病免疫力低，她得离我远远的，（但）这个时候你真的要去摸摸她。
Usually she won't touch, because this disease immunity is low, she has to stay away from me, (but) this time you really want to feel her.
我就把手消了毒，去摸摸她，其实真想抱抱她啊，但是不能抱。
I took my hands off the poison and touched her. I wanted to hug her, but I couldn't hold her.
我越摸她，她越说，妈妈，你别对我这么好。
The more I touch her, the more she says, Mom, you can't be so nice to me.
她还会说，妈妈，我走了之后，你们过几年就会把我忘了，你们就过你们自己的生活，养只狗遛一遛。
And she would say, Mom, when I'm gone, you'll forget about me in a few years, and you'll live your own life and have a dog for a ride.
孩子今天打了点化疗，吐了。
The child had some chemotherapy and vomited today.
她看不到希望。
She saw no hope.
她说治疗就是治疗，没有希望，没有意义。
She says treatment is healing, hopeless, pointless.
她说没有美好的生活。
She said there was no good life.
我们俩中午都没吃饭，心情都不好，孩子没有胃口，但晚上五点半的时候我逼着她吃了一点，在床上给她喂了几口。
Neither of us ate at noon, nor was in a good mood, and the child had no appetite, but at half past five in the evening I made her eat a little and fed her in bed.
吃了米饭，还有白萝卜胡萝卜炖的菜，她只能吃烂糊一点的东西，因为化疗已经伤了她的脾胃，消化功能很不好，只能吃软的，硬的都不能吃。
Having eaten rice and stewed turnips and carrots, she had to eat something a little bit worse, because the chemotherapy had hurt her spleen and stomach, her digestion was so bad that she could only eat soft, hard food.
（她吃的东西）煮得很烂，烂兮兮的，像我们这种健康人看了都觉得没有食欲的那种菜。
(What she eats) It's rotten and rotten, like the healthy ones like us who don't feel like eating.
这种饭她已经从五月份化疗开始吃到现在。
She has been eating this food since chemotherapy began in May.
她说她都快治疗一年了还是这样。
She says she's been in therapy for a year or so.
她说她的意志力是一点点被摧毁的。
She said her willpower was destroyed little by little.
女儿开始治疗时可有信心了。
My daughter is confident when she starts treatment.
她是一个性格外向，特别阳光的女孩儿，她也想活，她还计划了自己美好的未来，唉，但身体开始疼痛的时候，这些念头就没有了。
She was an extroverted, sun-drenched girl who wanted to live, planned for her own future, alas, but when her body began to ache, those thoughts went away.
前不久，（这次）复发之前，她还很有信心，那时候她玩得很开心，心情特别好，还和朋友聊天。
Not long ago, before her relapse, she was confident that she was having a good time, was in a great mood and talking to her friends.
她像一个健康人一样，头发长起来了，眉毛长起来了，眼睫毛也长起来了。
She looked like a healthy person, her hair had grown up, her eyebrows had grown up and her eyelashes had grown.
我的女儿长得很漂亮，眼睛最漂亮。
My daughter is beautiful and has the most beautiful eyes.
她有一双特别大的眼睛，很有灵性。
She has a pair of very big eyes, very spiritual.
我和她爸爸的眼睛其实都不好看，她吸取了我俩的优点，她像她爸爸一样，眼睛比较大，眼睫毛像我的，比较长。
Her father and I didn't really look good in the eyes. She took advantage of both of us. She was like her father, with big eyes and long eyelashes like mine.
别人都说她是漂亮的女孩。
They say she is a beautiful girl.
最丑的时候是第三疗的时候，头发眉毛全掉了不说，整个人脸部都变形了，你认不出她来了。
The ugliest time is in the third cure, the hair eyebrow dropped completely did not say, the whole face is deformed, you can not recognize her.
回家照镜子，她哭了，她说我都被自己丑哭了，说我怎么像个外星人。
Going home to look in the mirror, she cried, she said I was ugly cry, how I like an alien.
我就告诉她，这些都是暂时，等你治好了，一切美好、漂亮都会回来的。
And I told her that all this was temporary, and that all was well and well, when thou art cured, all was well and fair.
（那时）她还经常和我说她的未来。
She often talked to me about her future.
她说她以后要读研究生，将来还要出国去看看，还想做志愿者，她的理想可大了。
She said that she would go to graduate school in the future, she would go abroad to see it, and she wanted to be a volunteer.
她在学校很活跃，是辅导员的助理，同学们都很喜欢她。
She is very active in school, is an assistant counselor, her classmates all like her.
她热爱生活，要到处去走走，到处旅游，开阔视野。
She loved life and wanted to travel, travel and see.
她有时候还说她要去非洲做义工，我说你别去那儿，那儿病菌太多。
She sometimes says she's going to work as a volunteer in Africa, and I say don't go there because there are so many germs.
唉，一切都因为这个病全部断掉了。
Well, it's all broken off because of the disease.
第一次化疗之后的出院诊断证明（三）当时要是冒一下险就好了确诊之后，我们全家在武汉协和（附近）租了个房子，爷爷奶奶也来给她做饭，陪她做治疗。
After the first chemotherapy treatment, my family rented a house in Wuhan Concorde (nearby), and my grandparents came to cook dinner for her and did treatment with her.
我和丈夫在女儿确诊之后，都没再上班了，我们都在照顾她。
My husband and I stopped working after our daughter was diagnosed, and we were all taking care of her.
我一年的工资是五万块钱，爸爸的工资稍微高一点，七万多。
My salary is 50,000 yuan a year, my father's salary is a little higher, more than 70,000.
从最开始治疗到现在，我们已经花了五十多万，快（把家里的钱）花完了。
We've spent more than half a million dollars since the beginning of treatment, and we're running out of money.
爷爷奶奶的退休工资帮我们贴补房租和伙食，一个月房租 1600，伙食估计 3000 多块钱，一大家子需要吃饭，她需要营养。
Our grandparents' retirement income helps us pay our rent and board, 1600 a month, food is estimated at more than 3,000 yuan, a large family needs food, she needs nutrition.
当时大家都觉得能治好，把她照顾好，她一定会好的。
It was thought that she would be cured. Take care of her, and she would be all right.
她爷爷在陪她期间经常流眼泪，有只眼睛也不行，在武汉协和做了手术，左眼完全看不见了。
Her grandfather often shed tears during her stay, one eye can not, in Wuhan Concorde to do surgery, the left eye completely invisible.
春节之前（我们）让爷爷奶奶赶紧回孝感过年去了。
Let grandpa and grandma rush back to filial piety to celebrate New Year before Spring Festival.
这个出租屋又冷又小。
The rental house is cold and small.
他们年纪大了。
They are old.
我和她爸爸都在医院，这个年也是在医院过的。
Her father and I were both in the hospital, and we spent the year in the hospital.
（其实）没有什么过年。
There is no such thing as Spring Festival.
武汉超市什么都关门了，买东西都很费劲，物价都在上涨，我们这个病又要花钱，生活费无形之中提供了好多倍。
Wuhan supermarket everything is closed, shopping is very difficult, prices are rising, we have to spend money on this disease, the cost of living invisibly provided many times.
每次去超市，一百多块钱，就只买了几样蔬菜。
Every time I go to the supermarket, I buy only a few vegetables for over a hundred dollars.
孩子的爸爸性格温和，说话有条有理的，现在爸爸也崩溃了，束手无策。
The child's father was gentle and orderly, and now his father was crumbling and helpless.
我和他认识快三十年了，今天，我第一次见他哭，哭得特别伤心。
He and I have known each other for nearly thirty years. Today, I saw him cry for the first time.
女儿说完安乐死之后，他要回出租屋给孩子做饭，孩子要吃自己做的饭，怕食堂的饭不卫生。
After his daughter said euthanasia, he would go back to the rental room to cook for the children, the children have to eat their own cooking, afraid the canteen food is not hygienic.
他说了几句话就往前走了，我看到他摸着胸口锤了几下，怕他出意外，我就跟了几步。
He said a few words, and going on, I saw him thump his chest a few times, for fear that something should happen to him, and I followed him.
拐到楼梯口那块儿，他蹲着哭起来。
Turning to the head of the stairs, he crouched and wept.
我安慰了他几句，我怕他把身体搞坏了，将来孩子还得依靠他移植。
I consoled him a few words, fearing that he might spoil his health and that the child would have to rely on him for a transplant.
现在跟女儿在一起，基本上都是她在说话，我不知道说啥。
I don't know what to say when I'm with my daughter, she's basically talking.
这个疫情太大了，我说啥都是假的。
This is too big an epidemic. I'm telling you nothing is true.
我跟她说疫情结束后，但什么时候结束呢？我们全国人民都不知道。
I told her that the epidemic was over, but when was it over? We didn't know the whole country.
平常我和她在病房里，我就给她讲笑话，有时候念念文章，给她讲讲我小时候的故事，她喜欢听这些。
Usually when I was in the room with her, I would tell her jokes, sometimes read articles, tell her stories about my childhood, and she loved to hear them.
前几天给她读了《伊索寓言》，都是小孩看的，逗她开心开心。
The other day I read her Aesop's Fable, which was read by children and amused her.
我心里好苦啊，可是强作欢笑，在她面前要笑啊，要笑。
I was bitter in my heart, but I forced myself to laugh, to laugh before her, to laugh.
有时候她坐不起来，就让我把她扶起来，她会嫌弃着说妈妈你的力气太小了。
Sometimes when she can't sit up, let me help her up. She'll say you're too weak, Mom.
我女儿 1 米 69，我 1 米 58，我比她矮很多，我又快五十岁了，我哪有这么大的力气。
My daughter is 1 meter 69, I am 1 meter 58, I am much shorter than her, I am nearly 50 years old, I have no so much strength.
我自责、懊悔，当时就应该选最好的血液病医院治疗，北京大学人民医院，陆道培医院当时都可以接收。
I remorse, regret, then should choose the best blood disease hospital treatment, Peking University People's Hospital, Lu Dopei Hospital can be accepted.
我们本来就想去陆道培或者北京大学人民医院做移植，想寻求更好的治疗。
We would have liked to go to Ludopei or Peking University People's Hospital for a transplant, looking for better treatment.
她爸爸 1 月 9 号就去过联系了，17 号才回来。
Her father was in touch on January 9th and didn't return until the 17th.
对方医院是可以接收的，那时候还没有疫情。
The other hospital was acceptable and there was no outbreak at that time.
我现在好懊悔啊，那时候就把孩子带去，就不会像现在搞得这么尴尬了。
I'm so sorry I took the baby, and it wouldn't be as embarrassing as it is now.
当时她打 Cart 之后几乎所有的细胞都为零，血小板二十几，白细胞只有 0.1，中性粒细胞也只有 0，出不去，免疫系统太差了，出去估计就是死。
When she hit Cart, almost all the cells were zero, platelets were in the twenties, white blood cells were only 0.1, neutrophils were only 0, the immune system was poor, and going out was thought to be death.
当时要是冒一下险就好了——现在是这么后悔，其实当时也是出不去的，也是拿她的生命开玩笑。
I wish I had taken a chance - I regret it now, but I couldn't get out, and I was joking about her life.
但是现在连冒险的机会也没有了。
But now there is no chance of adventure.
我们现在能离开武汉，去陆道培医院治疗估计是最好的选择了，没有别的路了。
We are now able to leave Wuhan, to Ludopei hospital treatment is estimated to be the best choice, no other way.
孩子的病已经拖不起了。
The child's illness has run out of steam.
止痛针可以打，但是怕肿瘤负荷越来越高，最后命都没了。
Pain-relief needles can be administered, but fear of the oncological load getting higher and higher, the final life is gone.
不是她想做安乐死，而是自己就已经被白血病拖死了。
Not that she wanted to be euthanized, but that she had been dragged to death by leukaemia.
我现在不敢在女儿面前打电话，因为有时候我一说这个事儿就想哭。
I don't dare to call my daughter right now because sometimes I want to cry when I say it.
现在越来越想哭。
Now more and more want to cry.
她这次复发之后，我把自己的微信名字改成了「爱哭佬」。
After her relapse, I changed my microphone name to "Crying Man."
女儿今天都嘲笑我，说妈妈你怎么叫「爱哭佬」呢？我的黑眼圈特别重，从她生病到现在，基本上没有睡过一个完整的觉。
My daughter laughed at me today and said, "What do you call a crybaby?" My dark eyes are so heavy that I haven't slept a whole night since she fell ill.
现在每天睡两三个小时就了不起了。
Sleeping for two or three hours a day is great now.
两三个小时也睡不实，心里总是有事儿。
Two or three hours' sleep is not true, and there is always something wrong.
只要她疼，发出「哼哼」的呻吟声，我立马就醒了。
Whenever she was in pain, groaning and groaning, I woke up.
这种声音我睡着了都能听得到，她掀个被子我也能听到。
I could hear the sound when I was asleep, and I could hear her lift a quilt.
我最近心里想的都是，她还有未来吗？武汉协和医院的病房走廊万茹意妈妈微信：Wu19711215C O N T R I B U T O R S责编：Neil执行：本本fine直击NEIL BARRETT米兰秀场，和王子异聊了33个真心话秀场很厉害，“超模异”很能聊从牧羊人的坐垫到被所有人戴在头上，迷惑流行趋势大赏这就是不管男女你无论如何也戴不好看的贝雷帽。
What I've been thinking about lately is, does she have a future? The Ward Corridor of Wuhan Hsiao Ho Hospital Yuzhi Mama Wei Letter: Wu 19711215C O N T R I B U T O R S Code of Conduct This book is written in English and talks to the prince about 33 reality shows.
__________________给我好看！。
It gives me a good view of _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情封城下，这位白血病姑娘想到了安乐死。
The leukemia girl thought of euthanasia when the epidemic closed the city.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "时尚先生";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; Mr. & quot;.
var msg_title = "疫情封城下，这位白血病姑娘想到了安乐死";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by leukemia girl.
var msg_desc = "「当妈妈真的很痛苦，要是没做妈妈就没这么痛苦了。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "Being a mother is really painful; it wouldn't have been so without it.
」";。
";;
title: 'fine 直击 NEIL BARRETT 米兰秀场，和王子异聊了33个真心话',。
At & quot; line & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '时尚先生fine',。
subject _ name: & apos; fashion Mr. Fine & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '从牧羊人的坐垫到被所有人戴在头上，迷惑流行趋势大赏',。
From shepherd's cushions to being worn by everyone at home, AT & amp; apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '时尚先生',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="时尚先生";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; Mr. & quot; & quot; & quot;.
