请回答2020。
Please answer 2020.
。
.
时尚先生。
Mr. Fashion.
时尚先生                      。
Mr. Fashion.
时尚先生。
Mr. Fashion.
时尚造就先生，先生定义时尚。
Fashion makes a gentleman, sir defines fashion.
。
.
今年的年味被消毒水的气味尽数冲淡，人们不再热热闹闹地走亲访友，而是躲在口罩和猫眼后紧张地提防着每一个擦肩而过的人，彼此都将对方当成移动的病毒源。
This year's smell is diluted by disinfectant smells, people are no longer eager to visit friends and relatives, but hide behind masks and cat eyes nervously watching every passing person, each other as a mobile source of the virus.
旅行取消，机酒退订，期待已久的海外演唱会一排门票低价转手，「在家隔离」成了全国人民统一的度假方式。
Travel cancellations, airport cancellations, long-awaited overseas concert row of low-cost tickets reset, "isolation at home" has become a unified national holiday.
所以当我们开始收集编辑部的春节故事时，大部分人的第一反应是——这么无聊，哪还有故事？-那就说说你有多无聊吧。
So when we started to collect the Spring Festival stories from the newsroom, most people's first reaction was - so boring, what's the story? -Let's talk about how boring you are.
-这也行？-反正我们的读者也都挺无聊的，说不定能产生共鸣呢。
-That's okay? -Well, our readers are boring anyway, and maybe they'll resonate.
-...行吧。
-Okay.
这篇文章就这么被拍板了。
That's how the article was written.
过去我们靠着他人的回忆录还原脑海中对 03 年非典的模糊记忆，现在我们用自己的故事凑成这次灾难的拼图，用这些无聊或者不无聊的回忆撰成一篇普通人的「抗疫回忆录」。
Now we use our own stories to make up a jigsaw puzzle of this disaster and write an ordinary people's "Memoirs of the Epidemic" with these boring or boring memories.
篇章一：被无聊逼疯的人们在无聊面前，有些人被逼成了十项全能，有些人却集体降智。
In front of boredom, some people are forced into decathlon, while others are brainless collectively.
Lilian坐标：河北我在家里听楼上三户人家合奏会从大年三十儿开始，因为出不去进不来大家都很闲，更是人生进阶的好时机，我家二楼的钢琴声以五首一篇章、三篇章起弹的节奏开始了，据说演奏者是个不到 6 岁的小女孩，真厉害！我 6 岁时连续坐超过 10 分钟就会触电。
The piano on the second floor of my house starts with a rhythm of five chapters and three chapters. The player is said to be a little girl under 6 years of age. I sit for more than 10 minutes and get electrocuted.
钢琴吱扭一天后，三楼古筝加入进阶队伍，那呜啦呜啦行云流水，闭上眼睛你会以为自己身处中式精油芳疗 spa 馆。
Piano creak a day later, the third floor Guzheng join the ranks, that purr purr, close your eyes you will think you are in the Chinese oil aromatic spa.
两个小时之后，四楼传来了萨克斯风的声音，吹得是上气不接下气，据说这位吹奏者是个 60 多岁的大爷，大爷独爱《回家》一首，接下来的四个多小时里，将《回家》的曲调分解成 26 个字母，一个字母一个字母的磨，听得人简直不愿回家。
Two hours later, on the fourth floor, came the sound of saxophone, breathless, who was said to be a man in his sixties, and who, for the next four hours or so, had broken down the "Home" tune into 26 letters, one letter at a time, making it almost impossible for anyone to go home.
二楼三楼四楼都这么出色，我家一楼，如此这般我能认输吗？不能。
The third floor on the second floor is so good, my first floor, so can I concede for now? No.
况且都沉浸式听交响乐一天了都快耳鸣了，最好的应对方式就是加入战斗。
Besides, after listening to the symphony all day long, the best way to deal with it is to join the battle.
突然想起家的角落里有一架脚踏琴，年龄可能比我都大，搁如今完全就是 7、80 年代怀旧图鉴指定单品。
Suddenly think of home in a corner of a pedal, may be older than I, put in the present is a completely nostalgic map of the 1970s and 1980s designated items.
把怀旧单品拖到阳台上，对准窗户边，准备发力。
Drag the nostalgic item onto the balcony, point at the window, ready to exert force.
掏出手机打开网易云，看看自己最近听的都是啥——坂本龙一，挑了教授的一首代表作《Forbidden Colours》。
Take out a mobile phone to open Netease Cloud and see what she's been listening to recently - Sakamoto's first choice of a professor's masterpiece, Forbidden Colours.
在网上搜到了简谱版，决定弹完这首的高潮部分就是今天的 kpi。
Searched on the Internet, decided to play this song's climax is today's kpi.
但是问题来了，我也不会弹呀，从小没受过音乐的启蒙，连简谱识着起来都费劲。
But the problem came, I can not play ah, young did not receive music enlightenment, even the simple spectrum of knowledge effort.
可是我不怕，四楼大爷都教会我了，学习新知识要「乐高化」，先拆解再组合。
However, I am not afraid, the fourth floor uncle taught me, to learn new knowledge to "LEGO", first disassembly and then combination.
通篇看了一遍发现教授非常厚道，他的曲子以简谱的形式看下来其实不难，323 532 这类大段大段的反复，只要记住这段比身份证后四位多两位的数字就行，就相当于掌握了这首曲子的 26 个字母。
The professor was very kind, and his music was easy to read in the form of a simple note. 323.53.The main idea of the passage is that it is not difficult to write a composition on a simple scale.
从字母 A 开始，我再次发现其实难的根本不是弹琴本身，难的是我总想干点儿别的。
From the letter A, I found again that it is not hard to play the piano itself, the difficult thing is I always want to do something else.
仿佛全神贯注谈五分钟是件非常难的事，我太忙了，冲咖啡、洗草莓、看看我爸出去遛弯带没带口罩、第 38 刷《陈情令》多少事等着我呢。
It seemed so hard to concentrate on five minutes. I was too busy making coffee, washing strawberries, taking my dad out for a walk without a mask, wielding the Thirty-eighth Expose How much awaits me.
我现在非常佩服二楼小女生、三楼不知名同学和四楼大爷。
I admire the girls on the second floor, the unknown students on the third floor and the grandpa on the fourth floor.
最后我勉勉强强学会了坂本龙一这首曲子的高潮部分，就四个节拍，相当于掌握了这首歌的四个单词，磕磕巴巴弹了不到半个小时，可能是我的专注力极限了。
Finally, I reluctantly learned the climax of Sakamoto's song, in four beats, equivalent to mastering the four words of the song, stumbled for less than half an hour, probably the limit of my concentration.
最后我也没有顺利加入到四楼连弹，我意识到他们仨的世界我可能无法融入。
In the end, I didn't make it to the fourth floor, and I realized that the world three of them might not fit in.
今天是大年初五，他们停了琴，可能都在家忙着煮饺子。
Today is the beginning of the year, they stopped the piano, may be busy making dumplings at home.
我等他们的下一场。
I'm waiting for their next scene.
Neil坐标：北京速冻饺子真是个伟大的发明！本来我计划得可好了，元旦爸妈来了北京，所以春节就不回家了。
The Spring Festival doesn't come back home because my parents came to Beijing for the New Year, so the Spring Festival doesn't come back home.
自己舒舒服服就在北京过，一来是因为这么多年了，从来没有自己一个人过过春节，二来，也确实觉得跑来跑去的太累了。
I live comfortably in Beijing, on the one hand, because for so many years, has never had a person to spend the Spring Festival, on the other hand, also really feel that running around too tired.
我家窗外风景因为受到一篇文章的启发，我决定初四去沈阳去泡个温泉，于是在两天之内安排好所有的行程定了酒店，并且还联系到了自己在东北的同学，大家打算在沈阳欢聚一堂。
The scenery outside my home is inspired by an article, I decided to go to Shenyang on the fourth day of junior high school to bathe a hot spring, so I made all the arrangements within two days, and contacted my classmates in the Northeast.
疫情刚刚出来的时候沈阳的同学跟我说，要不你还是别来了吧，感觉有点危险，我还嗤之以鼻地笑他并且自己丝毫没有买任何的口罩和消毒水（现在被疯狂打脸）。
When the outbreak just came out of Shenyang students told me, or you might not come, it feels a little dangerous, I sniffed and smiled at him and did not buy any masks and disinfectant (now the face is crazy).
我家现存的这几个口罩，还是他坚决要给我邮寄过来的。
He insisted on mailing me the remaining masks of my family.
随着旅行最终完全取消，过节这几天几乎就是在家全封闭式闭关了。
As the trip was finally cancelled altogether, the holiday was almost completely closed at home for the holidays.
比较幸运的是之前因为考虑到过年，所以我提前买了将近 1000 块钱的各种东西用来储备。
Luckily for me, I bought nearly $1, 000 in advance of the Lunar New Year holiday to save.
主要是各种的速冻水饺，因为我不会做饭，速冻水饺呢可以当主食，又不会太麻烦，还很有年味。
It's mostly frozen dumplings of all kinds, because I don't know how to cook, and frozen dumplings are a staple, not too much trouble, and very old-fashioned.
顺便跟大家安利一下湾仔码头的玉米猪肉馅儿的水饺，实在是太。
By the way, Amway would like to check out the dumplings for the corn filling at Wan Chai Ferry Pier.
好。
Good.
吃。
Eat.
了。
That's it.
第一次煮饺子故而本宅男这几天总共只出门了两趟。
Boiling dumplings for the first time and therefore the mansion male only out of the total of two trips these days.
一趟是拿同事给我买的口罩快递。
One was to express a mask my colleague bought for me.
另一趟是因为无事可做，我生平第一次认认真真地逛淘宝，随手下单了一个小米的智能门铃。
Another because there is nothing to do, my life for the first time seriously Taobao, casually ordered a millet smart doorbell.
没有想到在疫情防控形势如此严峻的现在，小米的物流还是非常的给力，竟然前一天定第二天就到了。
Did not expect in the situation of disease prevention and control so serious now, millet logistics or very powerful, unexpectedly the day before the next day scheduled to arrive.
第一次蒸馒头此时此刻我正在用各种各样的消毒纸巾擦拭所有我能擦拭的，从外面买回来的吃的东西的包装，然后开始弄午饭。
First steamed buns At this point in time I'm wiping all the food I can scrub and buy from the outside with all kinds of sterile paper towels and start cooking lunch.
家里的速冻水饺，玉米猪肉馅儿的已经吃完了，所以我今天打算退而求其次，吃一包三鲜猪肉馅儿的，听说也不错呢。
Home frozen dumplings, corn pork filling has been eaten, so I plan to give up today, eat a bag of three fresh pork stuffing, I heard it is not bad.
Jackson坐标：上海怎么放个假，朋友圈的精英们就个个原形毕露了呢这次全民闷在家，让我看清了朋友圈不少人的嘴脸。
Jackson coordinates: Shanghai how to put a holiday, the circle of friends of the elite have been exposed this time around the country stuffy, let me see a lot of friends around the mouth.
平时一个个人模狗样，留学深造的、自主创业的、一毕业就进了 BAT 的...... 这帮人平时只会偶尔发些遍布全世界的定位和不明觉厉的工作内容，没想到放个假就个个原形毕露了。
Usually a person, study abroad for further education, self-employment, a graduation into BAT... This group of people will only occasionally be around the world positioning and awareness of the work, I did not expect to take a holiday on the exposed.
点名回答问题是什么 QQ 空间返祖现象吗？清醒点，你早就不是小学生了！如果早婚你现在小孩都快上小学了！你怎么也开始分享土味搞笑视频了，上个月不是还说人家很 low 吗？没人想和你做默契大考验，除了你妈没人关心你是不是觉得事业比爱情更重要！更没人想匿名提问你，征集这种的人真的不怕收到匿名脏话吗？无聊能把人逼到什么程度，我现在算是知道了。
What is the QQ space reversion? Wake up, you're not a primary school kid! If you get married early now your kids are going to primary school! Why don't you start sharing a funny geek with your mom? No one cares if your career matters more than love!
以前觉得朋友圈都是些精英，现在才发现不过是一群小学鸡，不说了，我要去填点名问题了。
I used to think that the circle of friends are elite, only now found out is a group of primary school chickens, do not say, I have to fill out the roll call.
实习生本本坐标：北京我是个没有感情的口罩宣传大使今年春节我最大的使命就是监督全家戴口罩。
I am an Emotional Mask Advocacy Ambassador My biggest mission this Spring Festival is to monitor the entire family wearing masks.
年前几天其实疫情就已经比较严重了，我身边的朋友们都很紧张。
In fact, the first few days of the epidemic has been more serious, my friends are very nervous.
但是因为新闻报道的还比较少，武汉也没封城，父母那辈根本「不信邪」。
But because the news report is still relatively few, Wuhan also did not close the city, the parents of the generation "do not believe evil."
我就天天在家跟他们做思想教育，做疫情科普，使劲往严重了说。
Every day I do ideological education with them at home, do epidemic science popularization, hard to say.
我爸是他们里头最难攻克的一座高山，又固执又强硬又嫌口罩捂得慌，我说一句他顶嘴十句，口头禅是「甭跟我说那个，非典的时候都没人戴口罩」。
My father was the hardest mountain of them all, stubborn and tough and covered with masks, and I answered back with a 10-sentence mantra: "Don't tell me that. Nobody wears a mask when SARS."
我发现单凭理论知识完全无法动摇他的坚固信念，只好理论联系实际——开始卖惨。
I found that theoretical knowledge alone could not shake his firm convictions, so I combined theory with practice - and began to sell miserably.
有一天早上我刚起床，推开屋门就看见我爸干净着一张脸出门买菜去了。
One morning when I got up, I opened the door and saw my father go out shopping with a clean face.
我想也没想，穿着秋衣秋裤加拖鞋和还没清醒过来的脑子就冲出家门，一路边猛追边大喊：「你给我戴口罩！」我爸看我冻得哆哆嗦嗦还正气凛然的样子，立马吓愣住了，赶紧接过口罩戴上让我回家。
I didn't think I'd run out of the house in autumn pants and slippers and my waking head, and yell "You're wearing a mask for me!" My dad stared at my shivering, awe-inspiring appearance and quickly took the mask and told me to go home.
后来我爸也是彻底被我感动，觉得闺女这么用心为了家人健康挺不容易，就开始志愿做起督导员。
Later my father was also completely moved by me, think the girl so hard for the health of her family is not easy, began to volunteer as a supervisor.
每天往沙发上一坐，看见我妈要出去遛狗没戴口罩或者姥姥要出门倒个垃圾不戴口罩，他就立马给我打小报告，我再冲出屋门挨个整治。
Sitting on the couch every day and seeing my mother walking the dog without a mask or grandma going out to get a garbage bag without a mask, he immediately reports back to me and I rush out the door one by one.
篇章二：恐慌下的尚存温情大灾之下，不光有人人自危的防备和戒心，也有同患难的温情。
Chapter 2: Panic under the remaining warmth of the disaster, not only there is everyone's self-defense and vigilance, but also with the warmth of affliction.
Kako坐标：海南我妈说，如果将来她死了，骨灰撒海里就挺好今年是春节带爸妈出来旅游的第四年。
Kako coordinates: My mother in Hainan said that if she dies in the future, it would be nice to scatter ashes in the sea.
春节不回家，直接找个地儿旅游——是我四年前，使尽浑身解数才让爸妈答应的。
Spring Festival does not go home, directly find a place to travel - I was four years ago, so as to do everything possible to let my parents agreed.
结果没想到，一坚持，四年就过去了。
The result did not expect, once persevere, four years passed.
大家的第一反应都是我爸妈的女儿真孝顺，但其实孝顺女儿的第一动机是过年躲清净，顺便孝顺一下。
Everyone's first reaction is my parents' daughter really filial piety, but in fact, the first motive of filial piety is to hide clean, passing filial piety.
和我同龄漂泊在外的女青年，也就 30 开外一丢丢的，应该会立马 get 我的点。
I am the same age wandering young women, also a 30-plus lost, should immediately get my point.
男青年也能理解个八九分。
Young men understand a score of eight or nine.
过年回家，等同把自己放到桌上任人宰杀。
To return home after Spring Festival is to put oneself on the table for slaughter.
无论我们论点多么清晰，论据多么充足，都得不欢而散。
No matter how clear our arguments may be or how abundant they may be, they must be broken up.
谁让你没嫁出去。
Who told you not to get married.
时间久了，发现难得的春节长假可以和父母完全待在一起也好。
Over time, I found that the rare Spring Festival holiday and parents can stay completely together.
看平时看不到的风景，讨论平时不会讨论的事情。
Look at the scenery you don't normally see and discuss things you wouldn't normally discuss.
分散他们的注意力。
Distract their attention.
只是今年过得有些不一样，我们出发的前一天 1 月 20 日，疫情被正式发布。
It was just a little bit different this year. The day before we set out, on January 20th, the outbreak was officially released.
我帮他们备好口罩，21 日还是出发了。
I helped them get their masks ready and set off on the 21st.
从出发起，我们收到的信息就一天比一天重。
From the very beginning, we are getting more and more information every day.
直到武汉封城，三亚封岛。
Until the end of Wuhan, Sanya island.
最后的两天，我们取消了所有行程，待在酒店。
For the last two days, we cancelled all our trips and stayed at the hotel.
可能因为气氛特殊，爸爸妈妈都没有提有的没的。
Perhaps because of the special atmosphere, parents did not mention that there is no.
三亚的天气好的很，我们坐在阳台上，对面就是海。
The weather in Sanya is very good. We sit on the balcony, opposite the sea.
海面很静，散着几艘大船，也看不出他们动不动。
The sea was very still, and there were several large ships scattered; they could not be seen to move.
旁边的小桌上，放着我妈泡的茶，洗的水果。
Beside the little table stood my mother's tea and washed fruit.
我爸在手机上斗地主。
My father is fighting the landlord on his cell phone.
我妈看着海，突然说，如果将来我死了，骨灰撒海里就就挺好，干净。
My mother looked at the sea, suddenly said, if I die in the future, the ashes will be good, clean.
而且，你那么喜欢跑，世界各地跑，这样你跑到哪里我都能陪着你。
And you love to run, you run around the world, so I can be there for you wherever you go.
我心里咯噔一下，笑了下说，死了还操什么心。
I thought, with a snigger, I said, What do you worry about when you die
我爸接了句，大过年的净说些不吉利的。
My father took a sentence, the New Year's net said is unlucky.
死生大事，摆在眼前时，可能也不过世事上的一件而已。
The death of a great event, placed in front of the moment, may not be more than a matter of world.
希望每个家都平安度过，更相爱些。
I hope every home is safe and more in love.
实习生 Echo坐标：山东我给快递小哥准备了新年礼物从几天前就翘首企盼的快递今天终于到了，我还专门准备了给快递员的新年礼物。
I have prepared a New Year present for my courier. The express delivery I had been waiting for a few days ago finally arrived today, and I made a special New Year present for the express delivery man.
大过年的快递小哥依然热情满满，在电话里还道歉说小区入口封锁了，只能自己下去拿货，实在抱歉。
The big New Year courier still full of enthusiasm, in the telephone also apologized that the entrance to the block, can only get their own goods, I am sorry.
为了不让小哥久等，我赶忙跑出小区，看见他戴着口罩还守着一大堆货。
In order not to keep my younger brother waiting, I rushed out of the community to see him wearing a mask and guarding a lot of goods.
我说我难道还算快的？他说是，然后清点我的快递。
Did I say I was fast? He said yes and counted my couriers.
我问小哥他们有几人？他说五六人。
I asked my little brother how many of them were? He said five or six.
我又问：「平时呢？」他答：「二十多人。
I asked, "What about the usual?" He replied, "More than 20 people."
」我唏嘘。
"I sobbed.
临了送他我早已准备的礼物说：「新年快乐。
"Happy New Year," said the Gift I had prepared for him.
」他很诧异，坚决不收。
"He was surprised and resolutely refused.
我说你们真不容易，没别的意思，就是个新年祝福！他终于接过了，双手合十表示感谢。
I said it wasn't easy. It was just a New Year's wish! He finally took it and thanked him with both hands.
「你们不容易，一定要保重身体。
"You are not easy. You must take good care of yourself.
」说完我就拖着货进小区了，回头看，快递小哥还是一个人，在寒风中等待其他提货的人。
"Then I dragged the goods into the community, looking back, express brother or a person, in the cold wind waiting for other pick-up people.
Ray坐标：安徽执勤的表弟，今年一年都没法回家了我表弟是个军校大学生，今年寒假本来 16 号就可以放假了，结果他主动向学校提出担任其他学生都不愿意做的「护校」工作，负责军校大院的站岗、巡逻工作。
My cousin, a military college student, was allowed to take a vacation this winter vacation. As a result, he offered to take up the job of "nursing school," which no other student would like to do, and was responsible for guarding and patrolling the military school compound.
本来做满十天就可以回家，没想到突然爆发的新型肺炎打乱了一切安排。
I could have gone home after ten days of cooking, but the sudden outbreak of new pneumonia upset all arrangements.
为了防止返校的轮岗学生中有在家乡感染病毒的人，学校决定让他们这些第一批护校的学生一直负责到假期结束。
In order to prevent returning students from being infected with the virus in their home communities, the school decided to keep them, the first group of nursing students, in charge until the end of the holiday.
听到这个消息的时候，我眼睁睁看着我妈和小姨唰一下就哭了，军校生和普通大学生不一样，没有暑假，国庆等法定节假日也不让离校，只有寒假这三十天假期能回趟家，现在一年到头却连一面都见不到了。
When I heard the news, I watched my mother and young aunt cry, military students and ordinary college students, there is no summer vacation, the National Day and other statutory holidays are not allowed to leave school, only the 30 days of winter vacation can go home, now the year-round can not see a single one.
这个大年三十，他们只能孤零零在学校食堂吃「年夜饭」；人们在家中隔离休息的时候，他们得在家属院里挨家挨户上门排查，给住户量体温、询问近期动线。
During the Lunar New Year's Eve, they will have to eat their New Year's Eve meal alone in the school canteen. When people are in their own homes, they have to go door-to-door in their homes, take temperature measurements and ask for directions for the near future.
有一天小姨突然打电话到我家，接起电话，没想到听到的是她的哭声。
One day my aunt suddenly called my home, picked up the phone, did not expect to hear her cry.
「小龙排查的时候遇到一个武汉回来的人，他会不会被感染啊？」电话那头，她哭得上气不接下气。
"Xiao Lung Checks to meet a man back from Wuhan, he will not be infected ah?" At the other end of the phone, she cried out breathlessly.
「没事没事，应该过了潜伏期，一定没事的......」我们只能这么安慰她，虽然我们心里也很没底。
"It's okay. It should be past the incubation period..." We can only comfort her like this, although we have no idea.
放下电话，我和我妈相视无言，只能默默叹气。
Put down the phone, my mother and I looked at each other speechless, can only sigh silently.
表弟不是在抗疫前线工作，我们就已经这么担心了，那些为了大众奋战在一线，每天都在和死神搏斗的人，他们的家人得有多担心啊，唉。
Cousins don't work on the front lines of the epidemic, and we're worried about the families of people who are fighting for the masses, fighting death every day, alas.
实习生丹丹坐标：江苏因为疫情，朋友终于可以回家过年了回家的高铁定在了大年二十九，这是我从上大学以来，最晚回家的一次。
Intern Dandan CoordinationJiangsu Province Because of the outbreak of epidemic, friends can finally go home for the New Year. The high-speed railway will be around 29, this is the last time I have been home since college.
武汉封城的新闻也在那天凌晨发布，至此疫情的严重性才开始真正传递到每座城里，每个人心上。
Wuhan closed the city news released in the early hours of that day, the severity of the outbreak began to really spread to every city, every human heart.
高铁站里的每个人都戴着口罩，一瞬间甚至给我一种，口罩就像衣服一样、每个人都必须戴着的错觉。
Everyone on the high-speed rail station was wearing a mask, and even gave me one at a time, the mask was like a garment and everyone had to wear it.
「来到北京」对我来说是 2019 年和 2020 年都难以忘记的事情。
"Coming to Beijing" is something I will never forget in 2019 or 2020.
我有一个认识了十年的好朋友，也在前一年也来到北京开始新的工作，从事餐饮行业，所以过年期间是他最忙碌的时候。
I have known a good friend for ten years, also came to Beijing the previous year to start a new job, engaged in the catering industry, so the New Year period is his busiest time.
前段时间，因为太辛苦太累，他甚至在工作中晕倒了。
Some time ago, he even fainted at work because he was too tired and hard.
所以这次疫情对他来说，不知道该说是幸运还是不幸，因为这个年，他终于不用这么忙碌，可以回家和家人一起过年了！ 篇章三：冒着生命危险的普通出行谁能想到，平日里的普通出行，现在都成了一种“大冒险”。
So it was a lucky or unfortunate year for him, because this year, he didn't have to be so busy that he could go home and spend the New Year with his family! Who would have thought that a normal trip at the risk of his life was now a "great adventure."
Lily坐标：北京我决定反击这场肺炎战役！2020开年，随着部分混蛋控制不住的嘴，打乱了我所有美好的人生安排。
I decided to fight back at the Battle of Pneumonia! By the year 2020, with some bastards losing control of their mouths, all my wonderful life arrangements had been disrupted.
怕死导致旅行计划完全泡汤、提前退票导致损失惨重、对于一个双子座来说憋在家比死还难受......so，我决定反击这场肺炎战役！反击战 Round 1：年轻人就是要疯！今年除夕一点年味儿都没有，晚上 10 点群里的小伙伴都在疯狂抢红包的时候，我干了件以前想都不敢想的事：裹着两层口罩，平均车速 100 把我妈如雷贯耳的咒骂声吹没了，飞车 40 分钟赶在 12 点前去见朋友。
I decided to fight back the battle against pneumonia! This year's New Year's Eve was a bit crazy, and when my friends in the 10 p. m. crowd were frantically robbing me of their red paces, I went off with an average of 100 swearing curses from my mother before twelve in the evening.
这个除夕没有鞭炮，没有年夜饭，晚上 4 点睡，早晨六点就起了，脸也没洗就开始拍照。
No firecrackers, no New Year's Eve meals, 4 p.m. to sleep, began to get up at six in the morning, face unwashed began to take photos.
在 2020 的初一早晨我对自己说：嗨，年轻人，你不错，人生接下来就要这么活！反击战 Round 2：超市大绝杀！圈养的双子初二已经濒临「死亡」，于是我以买消毒产品为由，全副武装开车奔向最近最大的超市。
On the morning of the 2020 school day, I said to myself, Hey, young man, you're good, life is about to be like this! The Twins are dying in captivity, so I drove heavily to the nearest largest supermarket, armed with disinfectant products.
到地库后，我先在车里听了半小时王嘉尔的歌，在车里蹦了迪（你能想象那场面吗），原本计划买点消毒类产品，结果连洗手液都没了，超市被搬空了.... 北京人民真的都怕死啊。
When I got to the basement, I listened for half an hour to Wang Gal's song in the car and hopped around in the car (can you imagine that). I planned to buy some disinfectant products, but the hand sanitizer disappeared and the supermarket was emptied... People in Beijing are really afraid of death.
于是又开车去楼下小超市溜达了一圈，看到 84 的时候就跟看到金条一样兴奋，于是我甩出一句特别豪气的话：「你们有多少 84，我全要了」。
So I drove down to the little supermarket for a walk, and when I saw 84, I was as excited as seeing a bar of gold, so I threw out a particularly haughty remark: "How many of you 84? I want them all."
售货员惊诧的眼神告诉我，我是他近期最大的客户了。
The salesperson's surprised eyes told me that I was his biggest client in the recent past.
我包圆了最后两箱 84 后，心满意足的回家了。
After wrapping up the last two boxes of 84, I was content to go home.
随后的几天，每两天去一次超市，我前后经历了抢菜、抢肉、抢消毒产品、抢饺子.... 等各种抢货风波，练就了一身绝杀功夫，现在保证在超市谁也抢不过我！反击战 Round 3：视频喝死算！老钟说了过年不让聚会，不能串门儿，但不能收红包，让我损失及其惨重，心都碎成渣子了.... 对于爱抱团爱闲扯淡的北京人来说，没有什么能阻挡我们吹牛逼，于是视频群聊走起，瓷们！每天视频问安，隔几天一顿喝，完全实现了举杯同饮的美好愿景。
In the following days, every two days, I went to the supermarket, before and after robbing vegetables, snatching meat, disinfecting products, grabbing dumplings, etc., and then practiced a martial arts, now no one can stop me in the supermarket!
今年这春节过得确实丧，那么多人得病，那么多的生死离别（科比，我永远爱你），但是明天早晨照样会升起来，所以天空飘来五个字，这都不是事，今晚不醉不归！叉烧坐标：安徽公园的人大概是商场的十倍吧一年就回一次家，结果回来后第二天开始就没出过门，等初五这天，我估摸着哪怕是狗都要憋不住了，实在没忍住，就和爸妈一家三口齐刷刷戴着口罩去公园「踏青」去了。
This Spring Festival this year really sad, so many sick, so many life and death (Bryant, I always love you), but tomorrow morning will rise again, so the sky will be up about 10 times as much as the market!
到了公园，发现人居然比想象中的多，旁边一圈的停车位几乎都满了，可能过了这么多天大家也确实憋惨了，想来公园呼吸呼吸新鲜空气。
When we got to the park, we found that there were more people than we had imagined. The parking space around us was almost full.
我猜大家是抱着公园「地广人稀」的想法过来的，没想到因此反而每条小道上都能碰到人，不过大家都戴着口罩，彼此保持着一定距离，也还算安全。
I guess everyone came over with the idea of "sparse land" in the park. I didn't expect that they would meet people on every path instead, but everyone wore masks and kept a certain distance from each other.
久违地呼吸到户外空气（虽然是隔着口罩）原来是这么开心的一件事，这还是我活了二十好几年第一次感受到，连光秃秃的树枝都看起来生机盎然了。
Breathing outdoor air (though through a mask) for so long was such a joy that it was the first time in more than two decades that I felt it, and even the bare branches seemed to flourish.
踏完青，这回是真冒着生命危险去了趟商场，想去买本地才有的奶茶（类似茶颜悦色那种），毕竟一年只能喝到这么一次。
After all, I really risked my life to go to the mall and buy some local milk tea (tea-like). After all, I can only drink it once a year.
结果到了店门口，看到了因疫情暂停营业的通知，这真的是我最恨吃野味的人的一瞬间。
As a result, the store door, see the notice of suspension due to the epidemic situation, this is really my most hate game people for a moment.
一进商场就听到广播通知，商场近期改为下午六点关门，现在已经五点五十五，还有五分钟关门。
As soon as I entered the shopping mall, I heard the announcement. It was closing at 6 pm recently.
商场六点关门，什么鬼，这是一朝回到解放前啊！我看着空荡荡的商场咬牙切齿。
Shopping malls close at six o'clock, what the hell, this is a return to liberation ah! I watched the empty shopping mall gnash teeth.
在商场附近的美食街逛了一圈，终于找到三四家零星还开着门的小吃店，每家门口都站着几个不怕死的居民在排队，大家看到彼此的眼神中都充满着了然和默契。
After a stroll around the food street near the mall, we found three or four snack bars with doors still open, and standing in line in front of each other were a few unafraid residents, whose eyes were full of clarity and understanding.
没敢在外面吃东西（虽然真的看到了几个当街吃的勇士），带回家后全家人用酒精棉片把包装袋都擦了一遍，扔了塑料袋，洗了手才敢开始吃，吃到这些垃圾食品的一瞬间真的觉得，啊，这才是活着啊！ 篇章四：疫情下的自我隔离式过年尽管这个2020的开年对国人并不友好，但大家总能琢磨出苦中作乐的过年方式。
I don't dare eat outside (although I did see a couple of street warriors), and after taking home the whole family wiped the bags with alcohol, threw plastic bags, washed their hands, and ate the junk food.
实习生小正坐标：湖南那晚的回城路，是我见过最空荡的国道尽管 22 号口罩已经开始脱销，疫情的新闻霸满了屏幕，但是爸妈还是执意载着满车的年货回了岳阳的乡下。
Intern Xiaozheng coordinates: Hunan Province that night back to the city road, I have seen the most empty National Road although the No. 22 mask has started to run out of news, epidemic news filled the screen, but my parents insisted on carrying a full load of New Year's goods back to Yueyang's countryside.
忙乱导致了后续一系列连锁反应——妈妈提错了鱼肉和羊肉；说好是鸭汤结果尝进嘴里才发现莫名变身成了羊肉汤；以及大过年没见到饺子，包子倒是蒸了不少。
The confusion led to a chain reaction in which the mother made the mistake of fish and mutton; the duck soup was said to have turned into lamb soup only after tasting it; and the dumpling had not been seen in the Spring Festival, but steamed.
囫囵发完新年祝福，朋友听说了我在离武汉只有高铁一小时路程的乡下后送了四个字的吉祥话：千万别死。
bolted the New Year blessing, friends heard that I only one hour away from Wuhan high-speed rail after the country sent four words auspicious words: Do not die.
大年初一晚上十点，家族群被到处传来不知道是不是谣言的封路消息炸得不得安生，伴随着爸妈同时响起的工作群明日到岗提醒混合在了一起。
New Year's Eve at 10: 00, the family was heard everywhere do not know whether the rumor is not the closure of the news explosion, accompanied by parents sounded at work tomorrow to remind mixed together.
我刚把脚从泡脚盆里提起来就被一声「收东西走」吓得踢翻盆洒了一地的水。
I had just lifted my foot out of the tub and was scared out of my wits by a "pick-up".
那晚的回城路，有我见过最空荡的国道，有高速路收费站口的警车与救护车，有我爸的那一句玩笑话：「怎么还有鄂 A 在高速上，开出来兜一圈风再回去吗？」大年初二，家里能说话的就只剩我一个了。
On the way back to the city that night, there was the most empty national road I had ever seen, a police car and ambulance at a toll gate on a freeway, and my dad's joke: "How come there's a E E on the highway and come back in a circle?
好在还有猫陪着，虽然它刚刚又咬了我一口。
Fortunately, there is a cat with me, although it just bit me.
小茹坐标：北京喂猫成了我过年期间唯一重要的事由于春节假期婆婆的闺蜜一家不在北京，而婆婆和公公两人坐上火车回到武汉过年，于是喂阿姨家中的猫的任务落在了我和老公身上。
Xiao Ru coordinates: Beijing feeding the cat has become the only important thing during the Spring Festival because the mother-in-law's daughter-in-law is not in Beijing, and mother-in-law and father-in-law on the train back to Wuhan for the New Year, so the task of feeding aunt's cat fell on my husband and me.
阿姨的猫胆子很小，虽然曾经也帮忙喂过，但它似乎对我们还是戒备。
Auntie's cat is very timid, although once also helped to feed, but it seems to us or alert.
一开门进去，它便躲在床下紧张的的叫着，你去逗它，它才警惕的出来，在你附近徘徊。
As soon as it opens the door, it hides under the bed nervously cries, you go to tickle it, it just comes out warily, hovers near you.
也许是一个猫在屋子里面待的时间太过长久，等喂了几天了以后它便大胆了起来，甚至会在你面前躺下，等待你的抚摸，声音也从紧张的喵喵声变成了令人放松的小呼噜，对于我这样一个爱猫之人来说实属开心。
Maybe a cat spent too much time in the house, and after a few days of feeding it boldly got up and even lay down in front of you, waiting for your touch. The voice changed from a nervous meow to a relaxed purr, which was a real pleasure for a cat lover like me.
本来还和老公计划着假期后半程去南方温暖的城市旅行，或者去崇礼滑几天雪，但这些计划都因为疫情的急转直下泡汤了。
My husband and I had planned a warm southern city trip for the second half of the holiday, or a few days of snowboarding, but these plans fell apart because of the outbreak.
而喂猫仿佛成为了我目前生活中唯一重要的事情，它提醒我需要换一身衣服走出家门了。
Feeding the cat seemed to be the only thing that mattered in my life, a reminder that I needed to change my clothes and leave the house.
虽然只需要十分钟的车程便能到达阿姨家，但是老公会洗个头发，再用发蜡做个造型再出门。
It only takes ten minutes to get to my aunt's house, but my husband washes his hair and waxes it before going out.
如果没有这两天一次的小小「任务」，天知道我俩会有多邋遢。
God knows how untidy we would be without these two-day little "missions."
疫情还在肆虐不知何时方休，家人还在武汉不知何时能回，但是总是相信这些还是会过去的。
The outbreak is still raging I do not know when the family will return in Wuhan, but always believe that these will pass.
加缪在《鼠疫》中写到「即使世界荒芜如瘟疫笼罩下的小城奥兰，只要一丝温情尚在，绝望就不致吞噬人心」。
Camus wrote in Plague that "even if the world deserted the small town of Oran under pestilence, as long as the slightest tenderness still exists, despair will not devour the heart."
一月初的时候曾在朋友圈看到武汉的一个朋友由于春节假期返乡，希望有人可以帮忙喂养收养的流浪小奶猫，也不知道那只小猫后来怎么样了。
In early January, I saw a friend in Wuhan who was returning home for the Spring Festival holiday, hoping someone would help feed the adopted stray kitten and wondering what had become of the kitten.
LZ坐标：北京这也许是最平淡的一次过年对我而言，自告别学生时代的寒假以来，今年的春节算是把时间「花费」在家里最多的一次。
For me, the Spring Festival has been the most expensive at home since the winter vacation of my schooldays.
近五年的春节假期，其实基本都是用来外出旅游的——翻看一下 iCloud 相册记录，着实去了不少地方，在西半球、南半球都留下了足迹。
Nearly five years of Spring Festival, in fact, are basically used to travel - look at the iCloud album records, a lot of places, in the Western Hemisphere, the southern hemisphere.
自从有过一次在国外迎来农历新年的经历之后——便玩野了，此后就冠冕堂皇的把「年轻时要多看看世界」变成了自己的假期第一准则。
Ever since the Lunar New Year in a foreign country - then played wild, then pompous "young to see the world more" into their own first guidelines for the holiday.
然而，脚步在今年停了下来。
However, the pace stopped this year.
并不是甘心就把这个记录中断，只是当思考出游方向的时候，已然发现「待在家里」可能是最好的选择。
It's not easy to break the record, but when you think about going out of your way, you already know that staying at home may be the best option.
我家刚过完九岁生日的小朋友于是，这个「史上时间最长」的春节，我坐在电视前完整的收看了央视春晚直播，在京东上买了 50 只 3M 的口罩，通过网络大屏看了徐峥的电影《囧妈》，借助支付宝给武汉抗击疫情前线捐了一点钱，在微信上和大家一起「云拜年」、给朋友圈各种状态点赞评论，陪太太刷了几集美剧，听楼上邻居家放假的大学生弹吉他唱歌，在小区里溜了四次狗、跑了两趟超市……这也许是最「平淡」的一次春节过年，我没有什么故事，只是简单记录了我印象中所有生活的细枝末节。
After my ninth birthday, I sat in front of the TV and watched the CCTV program live, bought 50 3M masks on the TV, watched some of the movies of Xu Zheng's "Jung Ma" on the Internet, gave his wife some money to fight against the epidemic.
但我依旧还是没能回天津家里看望一下父母，因为老两口第一时间打电话来叮嘱我「不要乱跑，哪都不要去」。
But I was still unable to return home to Tianjin to see my parents, because the first time the couple called me to say "do not run, do not go anywhere."
希望疫情早日结束吧，愿大家健康，祝祖国平安。
Hope the epidemic situation is over as soon as possible, wish everybody health, wish our motherland safe.
Sissi坐标：北京我看完了一本被打上「女性主义」的书欢愉与忐忑，是每个假期的主旋律。
Sissi coordinates: Beijing I read a book marked "feminism" happy and perturbed, is the theme of every holiday.
欢愉是无工作、也无人扰，忐忑是父母时刻的密集关注。
Happy is no job, no one perturbed, perturbed is the intense attention of parents.
今年不比往年还有机会可以躲清闲，宅守在家里「刷书单」成了精神层面上的避难所。
This year is no more than usual opportunity to avoid idleness, homestay at home "brush list" has become a spiritual refuge.
一气呵成看完的是一本频频出现在生活视线里的书，《82 年生的金智英》。
At one go is a frequently seen in the line of sight of life, "the 82-year-old Jin Zhiying."
第一次知道这本书，它被形容为一个平凡女生的日常流水账，主角金智英这个名字在 80 年代的韩国，就如同我们的某敏、某霞这样大众，大众到大中小学里，一定会有个女同学叫这个名字。
For the first time, it has been described as a routine account of an ordinary girl, the protagonist of the name Kim Chi-ying in the 1980s South Korea, just as our citizens, such as Min, Xia, the general public to the primary and secondary schools, there will be a female classmate named.
如果非要找到书里金智英一个值得被人记住亮点，就是她从开篇直接被诊断人格分裂。
If one of the highlights of finding Kim Ji-ying in the book is that she was directly diagnosed with a split personality from the beginning.
没有嘲讽她，是确确实实的分裂，每个分裂的人格，都是她身边的女性们。
There is no mockery of her, is a real split, each split personality, are the women around her.
因为在她身上，都有这些女孩的影子。
Because in her body, these girls are the shadow.
与其说这是一本小说，不如说更像是女孩们的生活写照，真实记录着社会各个角落依旧隐藏着的，因为性别而不平等的事情。
It is more like the life of a girl than a novel, a true account of what is still hidden in every corner of society because of gender inequality.
有些就连同样身为女性的我，也在读完这本书后才发觉意识到。
Some even I, who am also a woman, realized it after reading the book.
在韩国，这本书被打上了女权主义的标签，甚至有女明星因为表示读过这本书就被韩国男性网络攻击。
In South Korea, the book has been branded a feminist, and even female stars have been attacked online by South Korean men for reading the book.
可我想着，这本书读完可要留给孩子当教材，希望他理解和尊重女性。
But I thought that after reading this book I would leave it to my children as a textbook, hoping that he would understand and respect women.
要知道，一个男性在一生中因为性别而受到非暴力打击，大概率仅是来自于身边的女性，媳妇女友丈母娘，可女性则不同，生活处处有陷阱。
You know, when a man is struck by non-violence in his life because of his sex, the chances are only that he will come from the woman around him, his daughter-in-law and his mother-in-law.
我不认为 2020 年，我们的下一代还会过得像金智英，但也不超理想得认为这种痕迹不会留下。
I don't think our next generation will be like Kim Ji-ying in 2020, but it's not too ideal to think it will stay.
衷心希望这个世界更好，不会因为性别成为筛选条件。
Sincerely hope that the world is a better place, not because of gender screening conditions.
晓慧坐标：新疆少了年味的年，原因不只是疫情每年春节我最期待的环节就是全家围在一起包饺子了，这是我家的传统。
Xiaohui coordinates: Xinjiang less annualized year, the reason is not only the outbreak of the Spring Festival every year I look forward to the family together dumplings, this is my family tradition.
奶奶是个老北京，过年包饺子对于她来说就像个非常神圣的仪式。
Grandma is an old Beijing, making dumplings for the New Year is like a very sacred ceremony for her.
从前的除夕都是从一早起来就充满年味儿的。
New Year's Eve used to be filled with the smell of spring from the morning.
我爸永远会在大年三十第一个起床洗漱，然后去贴春联，再下楼放一串全小区最响的鞭炮，那是我一直以来所认为的年的开始。
My father will always be the first to get up in the New Year's Day gargle, then paste Spring Festival couplets, and then go downstairs to put a series of the most noisy firecrackers, which I have always known as the beginning of the year.
到了下午全家一起准备年夜饭，除了正常的鸡鸭鱼肉，在新疆我们还会准备当地的硬菜——马肉。
In the afternoon, the family prepares dinner together. In addition to the normal chicken, duck and fish, we will also prepare the local hard dishes - horse meat.
恰好奶奶的生日在大年三十，所以每次年夜饭桌上还会有蛋糕出现，全家围在一起吃团圆的年夜饭，再喝点小酒，幸福满溢。
Grandma's birthday is in the New Year's Eve, so every time there will be cake table, the whole family together to eat reunion dinner, drink wine, overflowing with happiness.
十二点一到，我们就开始张罗着包饺子。
As soon as twelve o'clock arrived, we began to make dumplings.
全家形成一条流水线，一边聊着八卦，一边吐槽着春晚的节目，你一言我一语，每个人都很开心。
The whole family formed a production line, chatting gossip, while spitting the Chunwan program, you said everything, everyone was happy.
但今年因为姑姑一家要先和亲家见面，留在家里吃年夜饭的只剩下我们和奶奶。
But this year, as my aunt and I had to meet our in-laws first, we were the only ones left for dinner.
本是怕麻烦又怕冷清，我们决定年夜饭到外面去吃。
Originally afraid of trouble and cold, we decided to eat out.
可是这次坐在饭桌前，大家却总是提不起精神，还是冷清了。
However, this time sitting at the table, we are always not lift spirit, or cold.
姑姑后来匆匆赶来给奶奶过生日，饭局又匆匆结束，各回各家，我们第一次没能在除夕夜里一起包饺子。
My aunt came hurriedly to her grandmother's birthday. The dinner ended hurriedly and we all went home.
想到这些心里总觉得感慨，觉得这个年过得没有以前高兴，没有年味儿了。
Think of these always feel sigh, feel that this year has not been as happy as before, there is no taste of the year.
想必疫情是一个原因，但更重要的还是因为快节奏的生活让大家越来越怕麻烦，可那些省时省事的做法却让一家人越渐疏远。
Presumably the epidemic is one reason, but more important is that the fast pace of life is making people more and more afraid of trouble, but those time-saving measures are increasingly alienating the family.
疫情下的这个新年注定不平静，但人们在各自「小方格」中的生活，看上去却如此平淡，甚至无趣。
The New Year is a time of uncertainty, but people's lives in their "little squares" look so dull and even dull.
然而，相比抗疫前线的惊心动魄，这样的平淡何尝不是一种幸福呢？你的新年又是如何度过的，欢迎在评论区留言。
However, compared to the front of the anti-epidemic shock, such a flat is not a happiness? How do you spend your New Year, welcome to leave a message in the comments section.
C O N T R I B U T O R S责编：Neil Ray撰文：时尚先生新媒体编辑部执行：本本fine 直击 NEIL BARRETT 米兰秀场，和王子异聊了33个真心话秀场很厉害，「超模异」很能聊杜江 | 正气先生在杜江看来，通过电影向世界观众传递中国的主流价值观，是中国电影人应有的责任。
C O N T R I B U T O R S Editors: Neil Ray, editor of Neil Ray's new media editor: This book hits NEIL BARRETT's Milan show and talks to the prince about 33 reality shows. Mr. Zhengqi says that it is the duty of Chinese filmmakers to transmit Chinese mainstream values to the world audience through films.
__________________                   给我好看！。
It gives me a good view of _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
请回答2020。
Please answer 2020.
。
.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "时尚先生";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; Mr. & quot;.
var msg_title = "请回答2020。
var msg _ title = & quot; please answer 2020.
";。
;; & quot;
var msg_desc = "春节“普通”故事。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Spring Festival's "normal" story.
";。
;; & quot;
title: 'fine 直击 NEIL BARRETT 米兰秀场，和王子异聊了33个真心话',。
At & quot; line & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '时尚先生fine',。
subject _ name: & apos; fashion Mr. Fine & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '杜江 | 正气先生',。
Mr. & quot; & quot; & quot; Mr & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '时尚先生',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="时尚先生";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; Mr. & quot; & quot; & quot;.
