武汉幸运儿 | 一个武汉准妈妈的春节生活。
WUHAN LUCK & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; A Wuhan expectant mother's Spring Festival.
时尚先生。
Mr. Fashion.
时尚先生                      。
Mr. Fashion.
时尚先生。
Mr. Fashion.
时尚造就先生，先生定义时尚。
Fashion makes a gentleman, sir defines fashion.
。
.
你印象中的武汉是什么样的？这座位于华中地区的省会城市充满着生命力，夏天够热，热干面是他们最常见的美食，闲下来的老人们会聚在街头巷尾打牌，春节是他们最热闹的节日，有归乡的年轻人，有早早就置办年货的老人，有火红的对联和热情的拜年。
This capital city in central China is full of vitality, hot summer, hot and dry noodles are their most common food, idle old people will gather at the end of the streets and play cards, Spring Festival is their most popular holiday, there are young people back home, there are early purchase of New Year goods, red couplets and warm New Year.
2020 年春天，武汉人的春节是灰色的。
In spring 2020, Wuhan people's Spring Festival is gray.
新冠病毒的肆虐把他们原本的闲逸生活摔在地上打了个粉碎。
The onslaught of the new crown virus shattered their otherwise idle lives on the ground.
我们努力地找到了几个武汉人，他们跟我们讲述了他们从疫情开始至今的生活变化。
We managed to find a few Wuhan people who told us about the changes in their lives since the outbreak began.
他们是幸运儿，毕竟身处这座城市之中，「生死之外，皆是小事」。
They are lucky, after all, in this city, "life and death, all is a small matter."
接受我们采访的三个人截至目前都没有成为这次新冠病毒的携带者，他们幸运地以各种各样的方式逃过了这一劫。
None of the three people we interviewed have been carriers of the new crown virus so far, and they have been lucky enough to escape in a variety of ways.
他们当中有孕晚期的准妈妈，有不得不被隔离在工作城市一个人过节的武汉女孩，有回到老家便不得不隔离的北漂男孩。
Among them are expectant mothers-to-be, Wuhan girls who have to be quarantined in the city where they work, and boys who have to be quarantined when they return home.
他们见证了这一个月的城市变化，我们记录下他们的故事，也带大家看看一个武汉普通人在这个一波三折的春节里的不平凡生活。
They witnessed the city changes this month, we recorded their stories, but also take a look at the ordinary Wuhan people in this ups and downs of the Spring Festival extraordinary life.
三个人都与我们说过同样的话：「2020 年的春节，我可能一辈子都忘不掉。
All three said the same thing to us: "2020 Spring Festival, I will probably never forget.
」 一个武汉准妈妈的春节生活杨卷花yuki女武汉媳妇，未感染29 岁微博 kol长居武汉，个人收入不详自从肺炎传播开始，博主卷花就没有再发出任何一条关于自己最擅长的美妆内容。
Wuhan-based mom-to-be has not been infected with the 29-year-old Weibo Kol, who lives in Wuhan and whose personal income is unknown. Since the outbreak of pneumonia, the blogger has not sent out a single line about her favourite make-up.
她在微博每天发布的都是最及时的疫情资讯，有的是武汉人的求助，有的是需要被更多人看到和支持的舆论。
What she publishes on Weibo every day is the most timely information about the epidemic, whether Wuhan people for help, or need to be seen and supported by more public opinion.
卷花有地道的东北女孩的长相，漂亮，直爽，笑起来甜甜的，语速很快。
Curly flowers have authentic appearance of the Northeast girl, beautiful, straightforward, sweet to laugh, speak very fast.
微博上，这个好看的姑娘有 153 万粉丝，她最近的一条消息是在跟更多武汉人一起呼吁社会考虑延迟开工时间。
On Weibo, the pretty girl has 1.53 million fans, and her latest news was that she joined more Wuhan people in calling for society to consider delaying the start of construction.
「拿我们家来说吧，我老公就是普通的公司员工，每天工作时间规律。
"Let's take our family as an example. My husband is a regular office worker, working a regular day.
假如现在开工，街上又禁止与防疫工作无关的机动车上路，违者罚款 2000 块、扣 12 分。
If work is started now and motor vehicles not related to epidemic prevention are banned from the streets, violators will be fined 2,000 yuan and deducted 12 points.
上班族基本只能选择步行去公司，耽误时间不说，还不得不接触更多人，这是很危险的事。
Office workers can only choose to walk to the company, do not waste time, and have to contact more people, it is very dangerous.
他不愿意跟我说这些，怕我担心，但我怎么可能不担心？好在现在开工计划延迟了，不然我可能会更焦虑。
He didn't want to tell me that for fear I might worry, but how could I not worry? Luckily the work schedule has been delayed now, otherwise I might be even more anxious.
」跟他丈夫有一样的顾虑，我也不敢跟卷花聊太多可能波动她情绪的事，30 岁的她是一位准妈妈，预产期在 3 月 13 日，距现在满打满算也只有二十几天。
"Like her husband, I didn't dare to talk about how much she might fluctuate. She was a 30-year-old expectant mother who was due on March 13, just twenty days before she hit the jackpot.
如果不是因为这次的突发情况，此时这个小家庭应该正在满心期待地等着迎接一个新生命的到来。
Had it not been for this emergency, the little family would have been waiting expectantly for a new life to come.
卷花 2013 年从吉林来到武汉，与丈夫相恋多年，2016 年深秋二人喜结连理，丈夫是武汉企事业单位的员工，她则专心做自己的时尚博主，两个人收入不多但稳定。
The couple tie the knot in late autumn 2016. Her husband is an employee of an Wuhan enterprise and institution, while she is absorbed in being her own fashion blogger, both earning little but steady income.
这个春天，他们即将迎来自己的第一个孩子。
This spring, they are about to have their first child.
即将做妈妈的卷花特地留下了一组孕妇照做纪念因为已经处在孕晚期阶段，卷花格外注意自己的健康问题。
A group of expectant mothers with curly flowers left a group of pregnant women as a memento because they were in the late stages of pregnancy and the flowers were especially aware of their health problems.
早在疫情发作之前，卷花也习惯戴上口罩出门：「我可能是今年武汉最早戴口罩的一批人，当时是因为身体敏感，生怕周围人传染我感冒，没想太多。
"I was probably one of the first people to wear a mask in Wuhan this year. I didn't think much about it because I was physically sensitive and afraid people would infect me," he said.
」12 月 30 日，被叫做「吹哨人」的已故医生李文亮的一张提醒大家注意传染性肺炎的截屏被发在卷花的家庭微信群，当时她已怀孕 7 个月。
On December 30, the late doctor Li Wenliang, known as the "whistle blower," alerted people that a screenshot of infectious pneumonia had been distributed to a family microcosm of curly flowers, when she was seven months pregnant.
出于谨慎，她取消了当天原本和朋友计划的跨年活动。
Cautious, she cancelled a cross-year event she had planned with her friends that day.
几天之后，官方爆出截图上的内容是一则「假新闻」，新闻里说：涉嫌「造谣」的 8 个人已被拘捕，病人为患上「普通肺炎」入院治疗的患者，「没有出现人传人的现象」。
A few days later, the authorities posted a "fake news" on the screenshot, which said: "Eight people suspected of" disinformation "have been arrested. The patients are hospitalized with" ordinary pneumonia "and" there is no human-to-human transmission. "
卷花长出一口气，还在 31 日的上午开车去了医院，完成了又一次产检。
Taking a deep breath, they drove to the hospital on the morning of the 31st and completed another check-up.
2019 年夏天，得知自己怀孕后，心情紧张又喜悦的卷花被接到了婆婆家住，家里人悉心照顾她的日常饮食起居，也方便丈夫在外安心工作。
In the summer of 2019, the family took care of her daily food and made it easier for her husband to work outside.
2020 年农历春节前，婆婆突然毫无征兆地患上了感冒，咳嗽，有点发烧。
Before the 2020 Lunar New Year, my mother-in-law suddenly developed a cold, cough and fever without warning.
加上当时已经有肺炎传染性严重的说法被陆续爆出，家里人商量再三，为了保险起见，最终决定让卷花和丈夫搬回他们自己的房子居住。
After repeated discussions, the family decided to allow the flowers and husband to move back to their own homes as a precaution.
一天后，武汉宣布封城，各个小区也完全封闭化管理。
A day later, Wuhan announced the closure of the city, all small areas are also completely closed management.
卷花和丈夫再没去过婆婆家。
The flowers and her husband never visited their mother-in-law again.
因为肺炎肆虐，卷花家一进门的桌上摆放的不再只有门禁和车钥匙，而是种类繁多的防护用品婆婆家距离华南海鲜市场只有一公里，属于重点监控区域，老人又在这个时间患上肺炎，这让小两口非常紧张。
As pneumonia raged, the tabletop of the circus family no longer had access to doors and car keys, but rather a wide variety of protective equipment, only a kilometer from the South China seafood market, was a key surveillance area, and the old man developed pneumonia at that time, which made the couple very nervous.
虽然家人生怕传染孕妇才执意让两人搬回家住，但看得出，丈夫还是非常忧心母亲的这次感冒。
Although the family is afraid of infecting pregnant women to insist on moving back home, but it can be seen that the husband is still very worried about her mother's cold.
「当时我比照着网上说的症状看我婆婆的状态，怎么看怎么像，全家人都吓坏了。
"I looked at my mother-in-law's condition against the symptoms on the Internet, and how I looked at it, the whole family was horrified.
1 月 21 日，我公公带她去医院，那时候正是疫情刚开始爆发那几天，医院人特别多。
On January 21, my father-in-law took her to the hospital, which was very crowded just days after the outbreak began.
你算算，1 月 21 晚上 7 点左右他们从家里出发，家到医院也就是几分钟的车程，1 月 22 中午 11 点半他们才结束所有的检查，一晚上都在医院排队，拍了 CT，也验了血，医生诊断说只是普通的病毒性肺炎，让他们回家自己观察。
You calculate, January 21 around 7 p.m. they set out from home, a few minutes' drive from home to the hospital, January 22 until 11: 30 noon they finished all the check-ups, spent the night in line at the hospital, took a CT scan and had their blood tested, and the doctor diagnosed only common viral pneumonia and told them to go home and watch for themselves.
好在后来她也渐渐地恢复了正常，不知道是自愈了还是真的只是一次普通肺炎。
Fortunately, she gradually returned to normal, do not know is self-healing or is really just a common pneumonia.
我是在婆婆去医院的时候才跟老公回了自己家住，当时说这病的潜伏期在 14 天左右，那时候我只能默默祈祷婆婆不要真的倒下，以及我不会被作为密切接触者感染。
I returned to my home with my husband when my mother-in-law went to the hospital. I said the incubation period was about 14 days.
一旦真的有一个人感染，我们这家人也就都完了。
Once one person gets infected, our family is dead.
」另一边，武汉本地人不断在各自的朋友圈里发布救助消息，为自己，为家人，也为认识的人。
"On the other hand, the Wuhan native people unceasingly releases the rescue message in each other's circle of friends, for themselves, for their families and for those who know each other.
卷花丈夫在手机里刷到自己几天前刚做母亲的高中同学，却经历了丧父之痛，母亲如今也染病正在求助。
A husband brushes his mobile phone to his high school classmate, who was a mother a few days ago, only to experience a father's death.
在等来医院的救助之前，他们自己支付酒店费用，把老人隔离在家附近的一家酒店。
Before waiting for help from the hospital, they paid for the hotel themselves, isolating the elderly in a hotel near their home.
「那几天朋友圈里这样的消息太多了，你就感觉自己熟悉的人在纷纷倒下。
"There was so much news in your circle of friends these days that you felt someone you knew was falling down.
我当时每天都在哭，觉得自己就要崩溃了。
I was crying every day and I thought I was going to break down.
不止是我，所有武汉人都需要一次救赎。
Not only I, all Wuhan people need a redemption.
」卷花丈夫的高中同学在短短几天内经历了得子和丧父以及母亲重病的多重情感波折新冠肺炎彻底打破了卷花和家人原本已经安排妥当的生产计划。
The husband's high school classmates experienced multiple emotional ups and downs in a matter of days between the birth and death of a father and a serious illness in his mother.
「我在怀孕初期就预定好了医院，就是李文亮医生生前所在的武汉市中心医院后湖院区，距离我家最近，有应急情况也方便处理。
"I booked the hospital in the early stages of my pregnancy, the backlake courtyard of Wuhan City Central Hospital, where Dr. Lee was living.
我之前的几次产检也都是在那儿做的，我这人心细，早就把后面几次检查的号都提前用手机挂好了，现在也泡汤了，哪敢再去公立医院啊？一怕传染二也怕给人家添麻烦，还得重新找别的医院生孩子。
My previous check-ups were done there, and I, a careful man, had hung up the numbers I had checked several times in advance with my cell phone, and now I have lost my nerve to go to the public hospital again.
」大年初一的下午，卷花和丈夫一起冒着危险，挤进一家私立医院，预约了 3 月的分娩床位和生产前的最后几次产检。
On the afternoon of New Year's Day, the flowers and her husband rushed into a private hospital to book a delivery bed for March and the last prenatal checkups.
「现在武汉禁止机动车出行，也不知道接下来几次产检我要怎么去才合适。
"Wuhan is now banned from motor vehicles, I do not know the next few prenatal check-ups I would like to go.
以及出现早产等临时情况要如何用最快办法赶到医院。
and how to get to the hospital the quickest way to get to the hospital.
」卷花告诉我，让她心理压力最大的时刻其实已经过去。
The flowers told me that the time of greatest psychological stress had really passed.
「我最焦虑的时候是在我婆婆生病，疑似患上肺炎，我和老公又没法去看她，加上城里的交通完全瘫痪的时候。
"My greatest anxiety was when my mother-in-law was sick and suspected of having pneumonia, my husband and I were unable to see her, and the traffic in the city was completely paralyzed.
我们好像跟所有人都联系不上，朋友圈里看到很多认识的人倒下，没人知道第二天醒来等到的是好消息还是坏消息。
We didn't seem to be able to connect with everyone. We saw a lot of acquaintances fall down in our friends' circles. No one knew whether we woke up the next day with good or bad news.
」那时候的她经常一个人躲在洗手间里哭，又不得不控制自己不敢太悲伤，生怕影响孩子：「我就觉得都怪我倒霉，怎么就让孩子这时候出生。
"She used to cry in the bathroom all by herself and had to control her sadness so as not to interfere with her children:" I felt that I was to blame for my bad luck.
真的要是出了点什么意外要我怎么办？孩子要被传染了怎么办我都想过了，我倒霉也就算了，就是觉得对不起那么小的孩子。
What if something should happen to me? What if the baby gets infected? I've thought about it. I'm out of luck. I just feel sorry for such a small child.
」好在身边人及时给了她一些良性的疏导，卷花的状态逐渐恢复平静。
"Fortunately, the people around her in time to give her some benign catharsis, the state of the flowers gradually restored calm.
「我庆幸双十一和双十二的时候赶上打折，囤了很多婴儿用品，尿布或者奶粉都囤了不少，现在即便一时半会出不了门也不会太担心。
"I'm glad I'm on sale for double-decals and twelve days, according to the source, a lot of baby things, diapers and powdered milk are hoarded, so I won't worry too much now if you can't get out of the house for a while.
相熟的朋友还给我们寄来了一些口罩和消毒液，也算是解了燃眉之急。
Familiar friends also sent us some masks and disinfectant, is also the most urgent solution.
」小区封闭至今，她基本上只待在家里，丈夫有时会出门买菜，后来有小区的菜站供给，再后来出门的情况越来越艰难，他们干脆跟大多数年轻人一样，开始用手机软件在网上抢菜。
The neighborhood was closed to the day. Her husband sometimes went out to buy food, but later the neighborhood food station provided for her. Later, as things got harder and harder to get out of the house, they, like most young people, started to rob the Internet of food using mobile software.
2 月 5 日上午的武汉超市里，所有水产品已被囤货以减少出门的市民抢购一空「之前医生还是建议我在孕晚期做简单的运动，说是这样保持四肢的活力有利于生产。
At Wuhan Supermarket on the morning of February 5, all the aquatic products had been stocked up to reduce the number of shoppers who rushed out. "Before, doctors advised me to do a simple exercise in the late pregnancy, saying that keeping my limbs alive was productive.
现在出门显然是不可能了，我能做的是在家做些菜来解决我俩的一日三餐。
It's clearly out of the question now. All I can do is cook at home and fix our three meals a day.
」在病症肆虐之前，卷花和丈夫和大多数年轻人一样，靠点外卖来解决一日三餐，如今他们也开始学着给自己做起了厨师：「都是照着网上的方法做的。
Before the disease raged, curly flowers, like their husbands and most young people, took out food for three meals a day, and now they are learning to cook for themselves: "It's all done online.
第一可以当做简单的运动，第二吃起来比较安心，这也是没有办法的办法。
The first can be regarded as a simple exercise, the second is more comfortable to eat, this is also no way to do.
」上周卷花又接了一通让她崩溃的电话，生产后她可能无办法如期住进月子中心。
She may not be able to make it to the center as scheduled after giving birth to another phone call last week that crashed her.
「这家月子中心是我在去年 10 月份就定好了的，准备从生产的医院出来就直接住进去。
"I set up the sub-center in October last year to live directly from the delivery hospital," he said.
现在他们突然给我打电话说他们医院被临时用来给武汉的医护人员做宿舍了，估计 3 月份住进来有困难，建议我早点做好其他打算。
Now they suddenly call me to say that their hospital has been temporarily used to make dormitories for medical staff in Wuhan. I think it will be difficult to live in in March.
」事出突然，又迫近产期。
"Suddenly, the baby was due again.
卷花和家人还没想好如何应对：「实在不行只能请个月嫂来家里，只是这时候还不知道有没有人愿意来做，只能走一步看一步了。
"I can't just ask my sister-in-law for a month, but I don't know if anyone would like to come, so we'll have to take a step at a time.
」电话那端的她叹了口气，「还要尽量开心一点，我要笑着见到我的孩子。
"She sighed from the other end of the line." And try to be happy. I'm going to laugh and see my child.
」C O N T R I B U T O R S（图片均为受访者个人提供）编辑：暖小团撰文：Apollo责编：Neil执行：本本暑期档大热预警！导演是那位美学十级强迫症韦斯·安德森，看他的电影得论「帧」。
"C O N T R I B U T O R S (photo provided by the interviewee), editor: Warm small group article: This summer's heat alert! The director is the esthetic 10-degree obsessive-compulsive disorder, Wes Anderson, who watched his film" Frame. "
这四个男人治好了我的假期缺爱症宅在家的一个月，还好有他们。
The four men cured me of my vacation home from Aids for a month, fortunately there were them.
__________________给我好看！。
It gives me a good view of _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉幸运儿 | 一个武汉准妈妈的春节生活。
WUHAN LUCK & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; A Wuhan expectant mother's Spring Festival.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "时尚先生";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; Mr. & quot;.
var msg_title = "武汉幸运儿 | 一个武汉准妈妈的春节生活";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "再有不到一个月，卷花就要做母亲，而在孩子降生前，她和全家人的喜悦和期待却被突然降临的病毒彻底打乱。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; less than a month from now, the flowers will be mothers, and the joy and anticipation she and her family had before the baby was born have been completely upset by the sudden arrival of the virus.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '暑期档大热预警！导演是那位美学十级强迫症',。
A: At & quot; summer hot! The director was with AT & amp; A & amp; A & amp; D; & apos;.
subject_name: '时尚先生fine',。
subject _ name: & apos; fashion Mr. Fine & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '这四个男人治好了我的假期缺爱症',。
The four men cured me of Aids and Aphrodite at my vacation.
subject_name: '时尚先生',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="时尚先生";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; Mr. & quot; & quot; & quot;.
