行业观察 | 关明生回忆：17年前，阿里如何应对“非典”。
Industry Watch & # 124; Guan Mingsheng recalls how Ali handled SARS 17 years ago.
关明生。
Kwan Mingsheng.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
图：Savio在湖畔大学面试场17年前，当时还是“中小企业”的阿里巴巴遭遇“非典”，总部所有员工被强制隔离两周，关明生（Savio）是时任COO，事件的亲历者和决策参与者。
Photo: Seventeen years ago, when Alibaba, then a "small and medium-sized enterprise," was hit by SARS, all headquarters staff were forcibly quarantined for two weeks, and Savio was then COO's first-hand and decision-making participant.
疫情仍在继续，企业家们在承担社会责任积极支援前线的同时，也开始理性谋划应对之策。
The epidemic continues, entrepreneurs in the social responsibility to actively support the front line, but also began to rationally plan the response.
心胸与格局是从困难与创伤中锻炼出来的，面对灾难，活下来，就是胜利。
Heart and pattern from the difficulties and trauma out of the exercise, face disaster, survive, is victory.
公司如何应对突如其来的危机？危机来临时，领导层应该做什么？支撑一支队伍战胜困难的基本动力是什么？在这个时候，CEO要以什么样的心态面对挑战？……带着这些问题，我们采访了关明生先生，以下是他的口述。
How does a company respond to a sudden crisis? What should leadership do when a crisis comes? What is the basic motivation to support a team to overcome difficulties? What is the mindset of the CEO facing the challenge?..? With these questions, we interviewed Mr. Mingsheng. Here is his dictation.
01得知可能被“隔离”我们做了哪些准备2003年初，阿里巴巴规模还较小，杭州总部几百人，全国有10多个办事处。
At the beginning of 2003, Alibaba was small, with hundreds of people at its headquarters in Hangzhou and more than 10 offices across the country.
5月初，同事宋洁从广州回杭办公后出现感冒发烧，大家都开始很紧张了。
At the beginning of May, colleagues Song Jie from Guangzhou Huhang office after a cold fever, everyone began to be very nervous.
当时杭州有一到两例疑似“非典”病人，都已经隔离到医院去了。
One or two suspected SARS patients in Hangzhou had been quarantined to the hospital.
假如宋洁被隔离，那阿里在杭州的几百人怎么办？那几天信息很不明朗。
If Song Jie is quarantined, how does Ali do in Hangzhou hundreds of people? Those few days the information is very unclear.
公司提前做了应急预案，马云、彭蕾等跟政府积极沟通信息，负责技术的吴妈（吴泳铭）、狮子（师昱峰）等人把公司的线路都调好，准备将来真的是要隔离的话，能保障所有人可以正常接电话、上网。
Ma Yun, Peng Lei and others actively communicate with the government. Wu Min-ming, Wu Yung-yu, and Lion Yu, who are in charge of technology, set up the company's lines to ensure that everyone can properly answer the phone and surf the Internet.
当时有一件很特别的事情发生，有很多同学主动跟我来讲，Savio，我要2000块。
Something very special happened when a lot of students volunteered to tell me, Savio, I want 2,000 yuan.
我说你要2000块干嘛？他说我已经有电脑了，要2000块搞个宽带，被隔离的话，我就可以在家里上班。
I said you want 2, 000 bucks? He said I already have a computer. If I need 2, 000 bucks for a broadband connection, I can work from home.
我说好，就给他2000块，他签了白条给我。
I said yes. Give him two thousand bucks. He signed me a white slip.
陆陆续续很多同学在那段时间都来跟我拿钱，我都给，记得加起来发出去30几万人民币，当时那是很多钱了。
A lot of students continued to come to me at that time to take money, I give, remember to add up to send out more than 300,000 yuan, that was a lot of money.
当时正是“五一”假期，我回到香港当天，就接到电话说宋洁作为“疑似病例”被送到定点医院隔离，杭州所有员工回到住处自我隔离。
On my return to Hong Kong on May Day, I was called to quarantine Song Jie as a "suspected case" and all employees in Hangzhou returned to their homes for self-segregation.
在几个小时内，所有的人拿了钱就去买东西，把电脑带回家，拉网线，买桌子生活用品等，准备回家办公。
Within hours, everyone took the money and went shopping, took the computer home, pulled the wire, bought table supplies, and went home to work.
这个过程是自发的，不需要管理层去说你们要做什么，所有的人自动来说我要做这个，我要做那个。
This process is spontaneous and does not require management to say what you are going to do. Everyone automatically says I'm going to do this and I'm going to do that.
公司联系了电信部门，派出技术保障同学，确保每位同事家里都能联网和接入公司系统。
The company contacted the telecom department to send out technical support students to ensure that every colleague's home can be connected and connected to the company system.
我就在香港的家里隔离。
I was isolated in my home in hong kong.
我跟我太太都说好了，这个是大事，所以我们把遗嘱也写了。
I told my wife it was a big deal, so we wrote the will.
我记得我还有一封信写给我女儿，告诉他家里的东西在什么地方。
I remember writing a letter to my daughter telling her where things were at home.
02当时管理层在做什么有很多人问，为什么当时阿里的员工能那么高效地来应对？在我看，最关键的是公司的文化价值观。
What was management doing at the time Many people asked why Ali's employees were so efficient at the time? In my view, the most important thing was the company's cultural values.
当时的员工是不可思议地团结，不可思议地自发。
The employees at the time were incredibly united and incredibly spontaneous.
要应对外来突发灾难的话，这两件事是最重要的，一是团结，二是自发。
In responding to sudden external disasters, the two most important things are unity and spontaneity.
每个人都知道选择的优先级是基于什么？当时我听了不止一次，他们都说，我们可以被关起来，但客户的服务不能中断。
Everybody knows what the priorities are based on? I've heard it more than once and they all said that we can be locked up, but customer service can't be interrupted.
这个就是阿里的“客户第一”的文化价值观。
This is Ali's "customer first" cultural value.
要是这个文化不是早就做的话，碰到危难的时候，你只能发指令。
If this culture had not been done long ago, you would have been able to give orders in times of crisis.
当时阿里有一个很大的好处，就不需要做任何指令。
Ali had a great advantage at the time that he did not need to give any instructions.
那隔离以后，我们管理层在干什么呢？我记得马云天天打电话到隔离医院去，求他们，不要把宋洁跟另外那两个病人关在一起。
What is our management doing after the quarantine? I remember Ma Yun calling the quarantine hospital every day, begging them not to lock Song Jie up with the other two patients.
因为他心里觉得宋洁应该是没事的，但要是病人关在一起，事情就更复杂了。
Because he thought Song Jie should be all right, but if the patients are locked together, things are more complicated.
所以，他就非常坚决地天天打电话给医院去做这个工作。
So he decided to call the hospital every day to do the work.
他跟我说了一句：“Savio，要是真出了事，我怎么把这个小姑娘交给她妈妈？”我做什么呢？彭蕾给了我所有员工的电话号码。
He said to me, "Savio, if anything happens, how can I give this little girl to her mother?" What do I do? Peng Lei gave all my staff phone numbers.
我就在香港的家里，一个固话，两个手机，每天打几百个电话去同学家里说：你好，我是Savio，现在情况怎么样等等。
I was at my home in Hong Kong. I had a landline, two cell phones, and I made hundreds of phone calls a day to my classmate's house and said, Hi, I'm Savio.
他们说：我们行的，我们现在怎么怎么样。
They said, We can do it. What are we doing now?
这个就是我能做的事情，这个时候，不能指挥，不能监督，这个时候一定要给大家鼓劲，给大家加油！那时大家都隔离在住处，一天三餐都是别人送过来的，外面有一个锁，把里面的人锁起来。
This is what I can do, this time, can not command, can not supervise, this time must give everyone encouragement, cheer! At that time, we are isolated in the residence, three meals a day were sent by someone else, there is a lock outside, locked inside the people.
锁起来的人，有些是跟父母一起，有些是夫妻，有些是共同租公寓的同事而已，这是非常特别的一个情况。
The fact that some of those locked up are with their parents, some are married and some are co-workers in rented apartments is a very special case.
被隔离的杭州是阿里巴巴的总部，外地还有十几个办事处，主要是销售同学。
The isolated Hangzhou is Alibaba's headquarters, there are more than a dozen offices outside, mainly sales students.
总部的职能不能瘫痪，否则整个公司就没法运转了。
The functions of the head office cannot be paralysed, or the entire company will not be able to function.
我打电话到杭州任何一个同学的家，都是天使般的声音：“阿里巴巴，你好”。
I call Hangzhou any schoolmate's home, are angel-like voice: "Alibaba, hello."
如果我是客户的话，我都不知道这个公司的员工被关起来了。
If I were a client, I would have no idea that the employees of this company were locked up.
每个人都很有朝气，跟在公司工作一样。
Everyone is as energetic as working for the company.
在杭州的同学，隔离在家里也很闷。
Students in Hangzhou, isolated at home is also very stuffy.
他们白天在网上通过即时聊天工具、邮件、电话继续工作；晚上，还有同学搞了一个线上的卡拉OK飙歌比赛。
They continued to work online during the day via instant messaging, e-mail and phone calls, and in the evening they had an online karaoke contest.
这些都是苦中作乐，也让大家放松，鼓舞士气的好办法，这个很关键。
These are hard times and a good way to relax and bring them on, which is crucial.
03在当时不是机会是巨大的挑战后面很多人说“非典”对阿里来说是个机会，但当时我们面对的是巨大的挑战。
Not a Chance Is a Big Challenge Many people said SARS was an opportunity for Ali, but we were faced with a huge challenge.
碰到这样的灾难，很多企业只能选择放假，当时员工心理压力也很大，他们完全可以说我已经很难过了，你还要我去听电话，还要我去帮助客户解决问题，还要打电话去做销售，你省省吧！但当时没有一个人这么说，没有人掉队。
I'm sorry to hear that, but I have to go to the phone, I need to help customers solve problems, and I need to call to do sales. But no one said that, no one was left behind.
大家不可思议的团结，不可思议的自发。
The incredible unity of all, the incredible spontaneity.
我当时想，要是没有同学们的坚持，这些所谓“机会”的东西都等于零。
I thought that without the insistence of my classmates, all these so-called "opportunities" would be nothing.
因为“非典”影响，没有企业主愿意见面交易，我们网站的流量瞬间多了7倍，技术同学最主要做的事情要保证不能宕机。
Because "SARS" influence, no business owners willing to meet the transaction, our site traffic instantaneously more than seven times, technical students do the most important thing to ensure that no downtime.
业务量大大提升，这意味着同学们的工作量比正常时期更大，简直是焦头烂额。
The volume of business has increased dramatically, which means that students are working more than usual and are struggling.
隔离结束后，到6月1日，我们的其中一个部门电话销售部就做到了一百万销售额。
By June 1, one of our departments, the telemarketing department, had made a million sales.
电话销售当时是2300元一单，打100个电话大概有两个电话是成功的，打好几万个电话才可以做到一百万，他们付出了比平时更多的努力。
Telephone sales were 2,300 yuan a day. About two of the 100 calls were successful. Tens of thousands of calls were made to make a million calls, and they made more effort than usual.
有一天我打电话给一个女同学，电话那头是一个有点沉的男低音，“阿里巴巴，你好”。
One day I called a female classmate, the other end of the phone is a bit heavy bass, "Ali Baba, hello."
我说：你是谁？他说：先生，你是不是有什么问题，如果是这个问题的话，我就可以帮你解决。
I said, Who are you, sirHe said, Sir, are you having any problem, and if so, I can help you out.
我就跟他说：我是Savio啊。
I told him, I'm Savio.
他说：Savio啊，我女儿和她妈妈在前面上网，给另外一个客户解决问题，我帮她接听电话。
He said, "Savio, my daughter and her mother are surfing the internet in front of us, troubleshooting another client and I'm picking her up.
原来这是老爸，他已经把我们的业务流程了解了！所以说不是“非典”带来了什么机会，是我们把这个灾难变成了一个推动力。
This is Dad, he has our business processes! So say no to what opportunities SARS brings, is that we turned this disaster into a driving force.
因为这个团队非常之齐心，非常之团结，非常知道应该做什么，而且都是主动地去做。
Because the team is very cohesive, very united, very aware of what should be done, but also active to do.
因为在这个情况之下，管理层是不可能指挥他做什么事的，我们能做的就是关心、鼓励，天天给他们打电话。
Because in this situation, it is impossible for management to direct him to do something. All we can do is to care, encourage and call them every day.
两周隔离期满后，我回到杭州，正好赶上宋洁被放出来。
After the two-week quarantine period ended, I returned to Hangzhou just in time for Song Jie to be released.
那一天，我、马云、马云太太三个人去医院接宋洁出来，我们四个人一见面抱头痛哭。
That day, I, Ma Yun, Ma Yun three go to the hospital to receive Song Jie out, we four people meet and cry.
这个是永远不会忘记的。
This will never be forgotten.
为什么哭？就是因为很宽心，宋洁同学没事，我们大家都没事。
Why cry? Is because very relaxed, Song Jie classmate is all right, we are all all right.
最重要的是宋洁同学没事，马云也放心了，因为他可以把宋洁的爸爸妈妈的女儿送回去了。
The most important thing is that Song Jie classmate is free, Ma Yun is also relieved, because he can send back Song Jie's father and mother's daughter.
04CEO一定要临危不乱遇到类似“非典”、“新冠”这样的突发性、影响公司正常经营的危机时，每个公司应对的情况不一样，临时的应急举措当然重要，没有的话会乱。
CEO must face perilous not to encounter such sudden "SARS," "new crown" such as the crisis that affects the normal operation of the company, each company to deal with different circumstances, of course, temporary emergency measures will be important, if not chaotic.
但我认为最重要的还是基本功，就是平时的文化价值观建设，是大家共同认同的使命、愿景，只有这样才能保证坚定的团结与凝聚力，团结就不会害怕。
However, I believe that the most important thing is the construction of cultural values in peacetime, which is the mission and vision we all share. Only in this way can we ensure firm unity and cohesion, and unity will not be feared.
阿里巴巴2001年已经开始做文化价值观，2001年3月第一季度就开始把价值观纳入绩效考核，这个是不可思议的。
It was inconceivable that Alibaba, which had begun to do cultural values in 2001, had begun to incorporate values into its performance appraisal in the first quarter of March 2001.
已经有过2001、2002两年多的影响，各种各样的案例，大家的心态很好，遇到危机时的第一反应就是客户第一——“我们可能被关起来，但是，客户的服务不能中断。
We have had an impact for more than two years in 2001 and 2002. In a variety of cases, people are in a good frame of mind and the first response to a crisis is customer first - "We may be locked up, but customer service cannot be interrupted."
”有了统一的信念，大家就有凝聚力，能团结，而且他们目标很清晰。
With unity of purpose, people are cohesive and united, and their goals are clear.
没有人问这个时候我应该做什么，有客户的支持客户，后台的人帮助他们支持客户，服务不能断，机器不能宕，所有的人都在做自己应做的工作。
No one asks what I should do at this time, there are customer support customers, backstage people help them support customers, service can not be broken, machine can not undershoot, all people are doing their own work.
像遇到这次的“新冠”疫情，CEO们切忌不要急，一定要临危不乱，处变不惊，要非常清晰。
Such as this "new crown" epidemic, CEOs must not worry, must be in danger, not panic, to be very clear.
CEO一乱，公司肯定就乱了！CEO不能做太多事情，一定要拣最重要的事情去做，每个公司最重要的事情不一样，归根结底是生意怎么继续，现金流不要断，供应链不要断。
CEO can't do too many things, you have to pick the most important things to do, every company's most important thing is different, the bottom line is how the business continues, cash flow does not break, supply chain does not break down.
另外一个，不管用什么办法，要把员工团结起来。
The other, by any means, is to bring people together.
一定要支持、鼓励员工，该花钱的地方花钱，熬过这段时间。
Be sure to support and encourage your employees to spend their money where it is and get through it.
这个时候就是考验大家基本功的时候了。
This is the time to test our basic skills.
05开工要做三件事文化价值观是重中之重不久之后我们会迎来正式的开工，我建议CEO要做三件事：首先，寻找危机期间公司有什么弱点。
There are three things that the CEO should do. First, look for weaknesses in the company during the crisis.
队伍能不能抗打压，能不能迅速恢复经营，不足的地方需要组织什么资源和人力去做改善。
The team can resist the crushing, can quickly restore the operation, insufficient places need to organize what resources and human resources to make improvements.
这场危机对中小企业来说，是一场严峻的压力测试。
The crisis is a severe stress test for small and medium-sized enterprises.
开工的时候要明确、清晰地告诉同事们，面对这么大的压力，大家做得很好，但是另一方面也看出我们有一些漏洞。
When starting work, tell your colleagues clearly and clearly that you are doing well in the face of such pressure, but also that we have some holes.
做认真一个总结，给大家一个很清晰的方向，让大家重新上路。
Do a serious summary, give us a very clear direction, let us get back on the road.
第二，经过这次危机，也要去思考更长远的东西。
Second, through this crisis, we should also think about the longer-term things.
公司最基本的商业模式是不是能够抗打压？要是不是的话，需要改变什么？要退一万步来问的是，我的商业模式是什么？很多中小企业老板基本上都是边做边赚钱，但是很多时候没有去问我的商业模式是什么。
Is the company's most basic business model resistant to repression? Or is it something that needs to change? The question to ask is, what is my business model? Many SME owners basically make money while doing it, but many times they don't ask me what my business model is.
因为他们忙，他们天天在打拼，天天要为各种各样的东西发愁，他们没有好好的坐下来想这个问题，现在有点时间的话就需要坐下来问这个问题了，我到底解决了什么客户需求？这种模式是不是可以用线上的方式来解决？最后，还是要强调，一定要重视文化价值观。
Because they are busy, they struggle every day, they worry about all kinds of things, they don't sit down and think about it properly, they need to sit down and ask this question for a little while now.
文化价值观是一个公司主要的实力，而且是慢慢培养才能起来的实力。
Cultural values are a company's main strength, and are slowly developing the ability to rise up.
但当一个大灾难来的时候，这个东西能派上用场，公司不会散。
But when a cataclysm comes along, it comes in handy, and the company won't break up.
这个东西你必需开始思考，开始做了。
You need to start thinking about it and start doing it.
文化价值观都是从真实的共同经历中锻造出来的。
Cultural values are forged from real common experiences.
“非典”一战后来也沉淀为阿里文化的一部分，每年5月10日举办阿里日活动，邀请员工家人一起欢聚，就是为了纪念这次共同战斗的经历和精神。
"SARS" World War I also settled down as part of the Ali culture, each year on May 10 to celebrate Ali Day, the staff and family to gather together, is to commemorate the experience and spirit of the common combat.
其实，每一个公司都有文化价值观，对中小企业来说，实际上就是老板的文化价值观。
In fact, every company has cultural values, for small and medium-sized enterprises, is in fact the boss's cultural values.
阿里的文化价值观当年是马云跟他的18个罗汉共同经历那么多事情共同塑造的，不是我的文化，很多人误会以为Savio把文化带到阿里巴巴，是完全错的。
Ali's cultural values were the result of so much that Ma and his 18 Rohan brothers shared. It was not my culture. Many people misunderstood that Savio had brought culture to Alibaba.
文化已经有了，当时我们做的只是花了7个小时的时间把它过滤出来，提炼出来，把过去的东西都沉淀下来。
The culture was there, and all we had to do was spend seven hours filtering it out, distilling it, settling the past.
彭蕾带着同事们花了大量的功夫，用了三个月，把第一版的价值观“独孤九剑”的行为都写下来，这个行为是最关键的。
It took Penley and her colleagues three months to write down the first version of the values of "one-man-one-handed" behavior, which is the most crucial.
把这些具体行为都写清楚的话，你就可以有抓手。
If you write these specific actions clearly, you will have a grasp on them.
如果老板不做这个事，他不知道他的目标是什么，如果他的目标和使命是赚钱，那就已经有问题了，那么他的员工都是他赚钱的工具了，这样员工是留不住的。
If the boss doesn't do it, he doesn't know what his goal is. If his goal and mission is to make money, then there is a problem.
很多中小企业老板不明白这件事情，以为使命愿景价值观是咨询公司帮忙搞出来的，有很多人说阿里的文化价值观很好，阿里有拥抱变化，我们也拥抱变化，阿里有客户第一，我们也有客户第一等等的。
Many small and medium-sized business owners do not understand this, thinking that the mission vision values are helped by consulting firms, many people say Ali's cultural values are good, Ali has embraced change, we embrace change, Ali has customers first, we have clients first, and so on.
但是，这不是他们自己的，因为他们没有把它变成行为，这是一个很大的问题。
But it's not their own, because they don't turn it into action, and that's a big problem.
所以，每个中小企业老板要问，我的使命是什么？我是不是要在这个行业里面提供一些别人提供不到的东西。
So, every SME boss has to ask, what is my mission? Am I going to offer something in the industry that others can't.
如果他不明白的话，怎么让员工明白上下一心要做的一件事是什么、两件事是什么、三件事是什么。
If he doesn't understand, how to let the employee understand the next thing to do, two things is what, three things.
经过这件事，老板们要真正把文化价值观做扎实，要去思考怎么样把员工的长远的利益跟公司的长远利益绑在一起。
After this, bosses should really do solid cultural values, to think about how long-term employee interests and the long-term interests of the company tied together.
最关键的是要练好内功，因为养兵千日用兵一时，练内功也一样，长期把内功练好，你的免疫力就会提高。
The most important thing is to practice your internal skills well, for if you practice your internal skills well for a long time, your immunity will improve.
* 本文转自湖畔大学。
* Transmitted from Lakeside University.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
行业观察 | 关明生回忆：17年前，阿里如何应对“非典”。
Industry Watch & # 124; Guan Mingsheng recalls how Ali handled SARS 17 years ago.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "行业观察 | 关明生回忆：17年前，阿里如何应对“非典”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Industry Watch & # 124; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
var msg_desc = "疫情仍在继续，企业家们在承担社会责任积极支援前线的同时，也开始理性谋划应对之策。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; The epidemic continues, and entrepreneurs are beginning to rationally plan their responses, while assuming the front line of social responsibility.
心胸与格局是从困难与创伤中锻炼出来的，面对灾难，活下来，就是胜利。
Heart and pattern from the difficulties and trauma out of the exercise, face disaster, survive, is victory.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
