疫情过后，该启动新一轮经济刺激计划吗？。
After the epidemic, should we launch a new stimulus plan?
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
我们需要从2008年全球金融风暴后4万亿刺激计划的经验教训中，思考在疫情之后中国经济刺激计划和政策重点究竟应放在哪里，哪些方面大有可为，哪些方面要有所克制图/视觉中国文 | 郑志刚面对2020年冬春之交新冠疫情对中国经济的雪上加霜，在疫情转机初现之际，一些经济学家建议中国启动新一轮经济刺激计划，以实现保就业稳增长的目标。
Drawing lessons from the $4 trillion stimulus package that followed the 2008 global financial crisis, we need to think about where, what can be done, and what needs to be done to help China's economy in the wake of the 2008 global financial crisis.
记得在2008年，围绕应对全球金融风暴，中国是否应该推出4万亿经济刺激计划这一问题，经济学家们曾展开一场持续的争论。
Back in 2008, there was a continuing debate among economists about whether China should launch a $4 trillion stimulus package in response to the global financial turmoil.
固然有一些学者支持推出4万亿经济刺激计划，也有不少经济学家明确反对饮鸩止渴式的经济刺激计划。
While some scholars support a $4 trillion stimulus package, many economists are clearly opposed to this.
然而，在这次围绕应对新冠疫情后经济刺激计划的讨论中，目前看到的是几乎一边倒的支持。
However, in this discussion of stimulus packages in the wake of the new crown epidemic, there is now almost one-sided support.
一些学者把新一轮经济刺激计划称为“4万亿计划的2.0版”，另一些人则把投资对象称为“新基建”，以区别于传统“铁公基”等“旧基建”。
Some scholars call the new stimulus package "version 2.0 of the $4 trillion plan," while others call it a "new infrastructure" to distinguish it from "old infrastructure" like the traditional "iron-based" one.
一些省市开始筹备，甚至发布众多规模庞大的重点项目投资计划。
Some provinces and cities began to prepare, and even issued a large number of large-scale key project investment plans.
对此，有必要多做一些讨论。
There is a need for more discussion on this.
正视当年4万亿刺激的作用和副作用2008年的4万亿经济刺激计划一定程度抑制了当时经济增长的下滑趋势，使中国经济在全球金融风暴后快速复苏发挥了一定作用。
Confronting the effects and side effects of the $4 trillion stimulus package in 2008 somewhat dampened the downturn in growth and helped China's economy recover rapidly after the global financial turmoil.
但如果简单回顾过去十年中国制定的主要经济政策，就不难了解那次刺激计划带给中国经济的副作用是什么。
But a brief review of China's major economic policies over the past decade reveals what the side effects of the stimulus package have been on the Chinese economy.
其一是中国在过去很长一段时间内发起了以“去产能、去杠杆、去‘僵尸’（企业）”为主要内容的供给侧结构性改革。
One is that China has for a long time initiated supply-side structural reforms, with "de-leveraging, deleveraging, and de-zombie" as the main components.
其核心内容就是消化上一轮经济刺激计划形成的大量过剩产能，消化部分地方政府和国企在上一轮刺激及之后的发展惯性中产生的巨额债务。
The core is to absorb the massive excess capacity created by the previous stimulus and the huge debt that some local governments and SOEs have incurred as a result of the last stimulus and subsequent growth inertia.
为了消除钢铁、煤炭和光伏等过剩的产能，各级政府部门甚至不惜采用一刀切的行政手段。
To eliminate excess capacity, such as steel, coal, and photovoltaic, governments at all levels have even resorted to one-size-fits-all administrative measures.
一些产能严重过剩的国有企业，通过合并重组继续维持新的产能过剩，一些民营企业则在这次去产能的行政行为中奄奄一息。
Some SOEs with severe overcapacity continued to maintain new overcapacity through consolidation, and some private firms were moribund in this administrative effort to reduce capacity.
尽管各级政府花了很大力气去产能，但相关数据表明，中国钢铁等产品近期库存依然创造了新纪录。
While governments at all levels have taken great pains to build capacity, data show that stocks of products such as Chinese steel have recently set new records.
其二是防范系统性金融风险。
The second is to prevent systemic financial risks.
这一政策一定程度上是供给侧结构性改革中去杠杆政策的延续。
This policy is partly a continuation of deleveraging in supply-side structural reforms.
一段时期以来，许多规模大小不同、业务经营范围各异的企业雷暴频繁，对个别波及面太广的涉事企业，相关监管机构不得不出手予以接管。
Over a period of time, many enterprises of different sizes and different business scope have experienced frequent thunderstorms, and the relevant regulators have had to take over individual enterprises with too wide a scope.
固然这与一些企业采取的激进扩张政策、扩张速度太快、多元化程度太高有关系，但一定程度也与当年经济刺激政策留下的债务基础和用新债还旧债的思维脱不了干系。
To be sure, this has something to do with aggressive expansionary policies, too rapid expansion, and too much diversification on the part of some firms, but it is also partly linked to the debt base left by the stimulus and the idea of repaying old debt with new debt.
除了部分国企发生雷暴，一些地方政府债务高企不下，新的债务偿还高峰逼近，成为防范系统性金融风险的另一项工作重点。
In addition to thunderstorms in some SOEs, the high debt of some local governments and the approach of new debt service peaks are another focus of work to guard against systemic financial risks.
一些地方政府（城投债）的债务甚至超过未来数十年静态财政收入的总和。
Some local governments (urban debt) owe more than the sum of static fiscal revenues for decades to come.
面对这些国企和地方政府债务无法按期还债，形成巨大呆坏账，我们不得不强调防范和化解系统性金融风险的重要性。
In the face of these SOEs and local governments "defaults, resulting in huge bad debts, we cannot but stress the importance of preventing and mitigating systemic financial risks.
其三是国有企业混合所有制改革。
Third, mixed ownership reform of state-owned enterprises.
从2013年开始，中国国有企业开始启动以所有制混合为特征的新一轮国企改革。
Starting in 2013, Chinese state-owned enterprises began a new round of state-owned enterprise reform characterized by mixed ownership.
不难发现，部分进行混改的国企曾经是2008年后应对全球金融风暴所推出的经济刺激计划的受益者。
It is not hard to see that some of the SOEs that made the mix were beneficiaries of the stimulus package launched after 2008 in response to the global financial turmoil.
在那一轮投资的刺激下，一些国企盲目扩大产能，以至于陷入产能过剩的窘境，不得不通过直接去产能，甚至开展国际合作来输出过剩的产能。
Stimulated by that round of investment, some SOEs have blindly expanded their capacity to the point of overcapacity and have had to export excess capacity either directly or through international cooperation.
其直接经济后果是这些企业的效益下滑，它们在快速扩张过程中暂时被掩盖的机制体制问题暴露出来。
The immediate economic consequence is a decline in the efficiency of these firms, revealing institutional problems that were temporarily masked in the process of rapid expansion.
为此通过推进混合所有制改革，一方面让新引入的战投分担风险，另一方面以此推动这些国企经营机制的转化和国企效率的提升。
To this end, by promoting mixed ownership reform, on the one hand, the newly introduced warlords share the risk, on the other hand, to promote the transformation of these SOE operating mechanisms and the efficiency enhancement of SOEs.
上述三个方面，构成过去十年中国经济政策的部分主旋律。
These three aspects form part of the main theme of China's economic policy over the past decade.
这些政策背后始终绕不过去的一个主题，就是化解当年4万亿经济刺激计划的带来的负面效应。
One theme that has always dogged these policies is the need to address the negative effects of the $4 trillion stimulus package.
就像任何凯恩斯主义主导下的经济刺激计划一样，中国2008年应对全球金融风暴的4万亿计划，同样曾经“振奋人心”，引起很多人“欢呼雀跃”。
Like any Keynesian stimulus package, China's $4 trillion plan to deal with the global financial crisis in 2008 was "uplifting," causing a lot of "euphoria."
部分国有企业表示欢迎，因为它们是这轮刺激计划的直接受益者，有的国企就是在这一轮刺激计划下做大，甚至一度做强的；一些民营企业也表示欢迎，因为它们可以从项目转包分包中获益；资本市场的投资者也表示欢迎，因为投资刺激计划意味着新一轮牛市的来临；部分政府官员同样表示欢迎，因为新增项目审批创造了新政绩和可能的寻租机会，过去十年也有不少干部倒在了这上面。
Some SOEs are welcomed as direct beneficiaries of the stimulus package, some as big or even once, because they can benefit from subcontracting; some in capital markets because the investment stimulus means a new bull market; and some government officials because new project approvals have created new records and potential rent-seeking opportunities that have fallen over the past decade.
正是在部分国企、民企、资本市场和政府官员的欢呼中，当年的4万亿经济刺激计划以不可阻挡之势隆重推出，那些呼吁经济刺激计划的经济学家也受到欢迎。
It was amid cheers from some state-owned enterprises, private companies, capital markets and government officials that the $4 trillion stimulus package was rolled out irresistibly, as did economists who called for it.
然而，部分在刺激计划中做大、甚至一度做强的国有企业，后来受到产能过剩和成为僵尸企业的拖累，不得不成为国企混改和资产重组的对象；部分从中受益的民营企业由于过度扩张，负债累累，不得不饱尝雷暴频繁的恶果；中国资本市场在2008年时沪指3000点左右，十几年过去了，沪指依然停留在3000点左右；在那一轮刺激计划实施过程中，一些利用手中权力寻租敛财的政府官员，在随后的反腐浪潮中锒铛入狱。
However, state-owned enterprises, some of which had been big and even once strong in the stimulus package, were later dragged down by overcapacity and zombie companies and had to become targets of state-owned enterprise rebalancing and recapitalization.
总结过去的经验教训，如果为了应对新冠疫情和已现颓势的经济增长，从而推出新一轮更大规模的经济刺激计划，未来十年我们会否面临远比当年更严重的副作用和后遗症？中国经济会否陷入各种新的“陷阱”而更难自拔？为保就业稳增长，更需要的政策是什么？即使为了保就业稳增长，不得不寻求可能的经济刺激政策，能不能更多以减税而不是以增加财政投入的方式，更多通过引导民营资本投入、依靠市场力量培育发展新动能的方式？中国经济改革40多年来的实践一再证明，只有中小企业繁荣生长、民营企业发展壮大，才有可能容纳更多社会就业，并为可持续的经济增长创造新的“稳定器”。
Will China face far more serious side effects and sequelae over the next decade in order to cope with the new crown and declining economic growth? Even more so, China's economic reform over the past 40-odd years has proved that only by guiding private capital investment, rather than increasing financial input, can it absorb more social employment and create new "stabilizers" for sustainable economic growth.
虽然一些学者提醒，新一轮经济刺激计划重点投资领域在“新基建”，其中很多重要基础设施和产业投资确有战略价值，但如果在实施过程中依然靠财政投入占大头，以国有企业为主力，而并非依靠盈利动机更加明确、且能够承担决策失误后果的民企民资来识别符合市场需求的潜在投资项目，那么看起来新的基建投资，依然有可能陷入之前旧的基建投资的宿命，有可能导致新一轮的投资效率低下和相关产能过剩。
While some scholars caution that the new stimulus is focused on "new infrastructure," where much of the important infrastructure and industrial investment is of strategic value, new infrastructure investment looks likely to sink into old infrastructure investments and related overcapacity if it is implemented with a strong fiscal component and state-owned enterprises as the main players, rather than relying on private firms with clearer profit motives and bearing the consequences of bad decisions.
即使为了保就业稳增长，不得不寻求可能的经济刺激政策，能不能围绕正在积极推进的国企混改，以更大的决心和魄力推动实现竞争中性的所有制混合？国企混改一方面可以通过引入民资背景的战投，为民资的发展提供更加广阔的空间和舞台，另一方面则通过民资参与公司治理，推动国有企业经营机制实现转化，提升国企经营效率，从而避免由于资源集中在部分低效国企，拖累了中国经济增长的速度和质量。
Even in order to ensure steady employment growth, it is necessary to seek a possible economic stimulus policy, can we use more determination and drive to realize a competitive and neutral system of ownership around the active reform of state-owned enterprises? On the other hand, state-owned enterprises can participate in corporate governance through the introduction of private capital.
即使为了保就业稳增长，不得不寻求可能的经济刺激政策，能不能通过开放一些限制性进入的行业，降低相关行业的进入门槛，鼓励更多民资和外资进入，通过引入竞争机制，提升相关行业和整体经济的发展质量？比如，这次新冠疫情暴露的公共卫生防御体系薄弱问题，一方面与公共卫生领域长期投入不足有关，另一方面也与依靠市场投入参与医疗产业不足有关，在医疗行业过多依靠财政投入，由此形成对公共卫生投入的挤占，最终是顾此失彼的。
For example, the weak public health defense system exposed by the new crown is related to the insufficient investment in public health on the one hand, and the insufficient participation of market input in the medical industry on the other, thus creating a crowding out of public health investment.
下一步，能否鼓励更多民资和外资进入医疗服务领域，增加有效供给，提升医疗服务质量，降低服务价格，相应增加属于公共品的公共卫生服务的财政投入。
In the next step, will it be possible to encourage more private and foreign investment to enter the medical service sector, increase the effective supply, improve the quality of medical services, lower the price of services and correspondingly increase financial input into public health services that are public goods.
在新冠疫情肆虐势头得到遏制之际，有人开始思考如何加强公共卫生防御体系建设。
As the new crown epidemic gains momentum, some are thinking about how to strengthen the public health defense system.
同样，我们需要从2008年全球金融风暴后4万亿刺激计划的经验教训中，思考在疫情之后中国经济刺激计划和政策重点究竟应放在哪里，哪些方面大有可为，哪些方面要有所克制。
Likewise, we need to reflect, drawing lessons from the $4 trillion stimulus package that followed the 2008 global financial crisis, on where, what, and what should be the focus of China's stimulus plan and policies in the wake of the epidemic.
（作者为中国人民大学金融学教授，编辑：何刚 ）▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
(The writer is a professor of finance at Renmin University of China and editor: He Gang.) Click here to see more details about the epidemic. Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情过后，该启动新一轮经济刺激计划吗？。
After the epidemic, should we launch a new stimulus plan?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "疫情过后，该启动新一轮经济刺激计划吗？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Was it time to start a new stimulus package after the epidemic?;
var msg_desc = "我们需要从2008年全球金融风暴后4万亿刺激计划的经验教训中，思考在疫情之后中国经济刺激计划和政策重点究竟应";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160;; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
