在武汉最紧张的一周，全国的线上问诊都暴增。
During Wuhan's most intense week, online consultations have surged across the country.
辛颖 俞燕。
Xinying Yu Yan.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
受疫情期间影响，多地医保快速开通互联网医疗支付业务，但这距离行业的春天或许还远，长期的“医保份额”划定仍是瓶颈，找到其他的买单方也在探索期文 |《财经》记者 辛颖 俞燕编辑| 王小“我印象最深的线上问诊的提问是，如果家里飞进来一只蝙蝠怎么办？”一位武汉市协和医院医生在线问诊遇到这个问题。
During the epidemic, many health-care providers quickly started paying for Internet care, but that may be far from the industry's spring. Long-term "Medicare quotas" remain a bottleneck. & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
他和他的同行们，在武汉医护资源最紧张的时刻，将战场搬到了互联网上。
He and his colleagues moved the battlefield to the Internet at the height of Wuhan's medical emergency.
1月22日，武汉封城前夜，新冠肺炎定点医院和发热门诊医院已有大量患者排队等候诊治。
On January 22, the night before the city was closed in Wuhan, a large number of patients were waiting for treatment at the Xinguan Pneumonia Dating Hospital and the Heat Clinic Hospital.
“大家都太紧张了，小感冒都往医院跑。
"Everyone was so nervous that they rushed to the hospital with the little cold.
而且患者在发现家附近的医院不能就诊，就流动去下一家医院。
And the patient in the discovery home nearby hospital cannot see a doctor, flow to the next hospital.
”上述武汉协和医院医生对《财经》记者说，不幸的是在1月23日一早，收到医院通知，要求他在家隔离，“前几天一起吃过饭的同事被确诊感染了”。
"Unfortunately, in the early morning of January 23, he was told by the hospital that he should be kept in isolation," said a doctor at the Wuhan Caihe Hospital told Caijing.
一边是医生难全员到位，一边是大量患者拥堵在医院，于是，武汉协和医院号召有时间的医生，在“掌上协和”APP上提供问诊服务，且不做严格的科室划分，每个医生都发挥全科医生的职能。
On the one hand, doctors were not fully staffed, and on the other, there were a large number of patients in the hospital. As a result, Wuhan Concorde Hospital called on doctors with time to provide consultation services on the Palmtop Concord APP, without any rigid division of sections, and each doctor performed the functions of a general practitioner.
上述武汉协和医生此前曾在全国互联网平台提供线上问诊业务两年，这次却是他第一次使用自己医院的线上APP，“我需要去医院吗？”这是他需要回答最多的问题。
The Wuhan Concorde doctor, who had been consulting online for two years on a nationwide Internet platform, was the first time he had used an online APP from his own hospital, "Do I need to go to the hospital?"
而对诊疗建议，他也有颇多无奈，“如果是发热患者在38.5度以下，都建议服药，在家隔离。
But to the diagnosis and treatment suggestion, he also has quite many helpless, "If is the feverish patient in 38.5 degrees below, the suggestion takes medicine, the home isolates.
去医院会增加交叉感染风险，在家也有家庭感染风险，但这在当时确实是没办法的办法”。
Going to a hospital increases the risk of cross-infection, and there is a risk of family infection at home, but that really wasn't an option at the time.
每天早上8点半，打开手机提供问诊服务，这位武汉协和医生一天在线上可以接待约70名患者。
At 8: 30 a.m. each morning, the Wuhan Concorde doctor, who turns on his cell phone to provide consultation services, can receive about 70 patients online a day.
这和他在医院出门诊的效率差不多。
It was almost as efficient as his out-patient visit to the hospital.
但是，彼时“掌上协和”APP还不具备开处方等功能。
At that time, however, the "Palmtop Concorde" APP did not have the function of prescribing.
他会根据国家新冠肺炎诊疗方案，给患者推荐抗病毒口服药等，让患者自行购买，“但那时已经有部分患者反馈买不到药”。
He would recommend antiviral oral drugs to patients under the National Crown Pneumonia diagnosis and treatment programme, allowing patients to buy their own drugs, "but by then some patients had been unable to buy drugs."
不仅在武汉，春节后第一周，也是全国线上问诊爆发的一周。
Not only in Wuhan, the first week after the Spring Festival, but also the national online consultation outbreak week.
“从没有过如此高的单日问诊量，系统经受了前所未有的考验。
"Never before has there been such a high number of one-day consultations, and the system has been tested as never before.
”微医高级副总裁程怡对《财经》记者说。
Cheng Yi, senior vice president of micromedicine, told Caijing.
此时，在线咨询最核心的需求，是那些有发热、咳嗽都相关症状，但是不敢去医院的人。
At this point, the core needs of online counseling are those with fever, cough-related symptoms, but do not dare to go to the hospital.
“不少咨询者身处疫区，不敢上医院或者是太恐慌。
"A lot of the counselors are in the epidemic area, afraid to go to the hospital or too scared.
”北京军区总医院原副主任医师桂红珍说，她曾参加过小汤山抗击SARS（非典型肺炎）工作，她介绍，其中有人在线咨询过程中，已经明显出现了新冠肺炎的症状，但不愿意去医院，担心大家用异样的眼光看他，“我们一方面帮他联系当地医院，一方面进行劝导”。
Gui Hongzhen, a former deputy director of the Beijing General Hospital, said she had been involved in the fight against SARS in Xiaotangshan, where symptoms of pneumonia had become apparent during online consultations, but was reluctant to go to the hospital for fear of being looked at differently.
平安好医生后台数据显示，线上问诊最关心的问题，就是如何辨别、预防这种新型冠状病毒。
Safe good doctor backstage data shows, on-line consultation the most concerned problem, is how to identify, prevent this new coronavirus.
其中，40%的人关心如何预防冠状病毒感染；25%的人咨询，如果出现发热、干咳、乏力等症状，是否意味着已经感染新冠状病毒；10%的人询问新型冠状病毒的传播方式。
Of those, 40 percent were concerned about the prevention of coronavirus infection, 25 percent asked if any symptoms such as fever, dry cough or fatigue meant they had contracted the new coronavirus, and 10 percent asked about the transmission of the new coronavirus.
随着疫情发展，武汉市的就医压力逐渐转向因社区封闭在家的普通居民。
With the development of the epidemic, the pressure of medical treatment in Wuhan gradually turned to the community closed to ordinary residents at home.
互联网+医疗的优势，在这一特殊时期凸显。
The advantages of Internet + medical care stand out at this particular time.
微医、平安好医生等平台都上线了疫情问诊专区，免费为患者提供新冠肺炎咨询。
Microdoctors, safe good doctors and other platforms have been on-line epidemic consultation areas, free of charge for patients with the new crown pneumonia counselling.
疫情期间，微医疫情专区在最高峰单日访问量翻10倍，平安好医生APP新注册用户量增长10倍，日均问诊量是平时的9倍。
During the epidemic period, the number of visits per day in the micromedical area increased tenfold, the number of newly registered APP users increased tenfold, and the average number of consultations per day was nine times higher than usual.
3月5日，酝酿已久的《关于深化医疗保障制度改革的意见》（下称《意见》）正式出台，这一重磅文件对互联网+医疗业务明确指出，要从医保基金预算管理、医保定点机构选择上适应互联网+医疗服务模式的发展需求，同时加以规范。
On March 5, the long-awaited Opinions on Deepening the Reform of the Health Care System (hereinafter referred to as "the Opinions") came out. This weighty document clearly indicates the need to adapt the budget management of medical insurance funds and the choice of designated institutions to the development needs of the Internet + medical service model, while standardizing them.
或许可借疫情契机，将在互联网医院问诊纳入医保支付推广开来。
Perhaps the epidemic could be an opportunity to include consultation in Internet hospitals in health-care payments to promote.
在线上买到药，从来不容易“我在网上成功下单买到药。
It's never easy to get medicine online. "I succeeded in placing an order online.
”3月2日晚8点，72岁的武汉市民任毅（化名）使用手机买到自己的救命药，这也是国家医保电子凭证在武汉紧急上线的第一天。
At 8pm on March 2, Wuhan-based Minyan Yi, a 72-year-old Wuhan city, bought his life-saving medicine using a mobile phone, the first day the national medical certificate went online in an emergency.
国家医保电子凭证在武汉上线，也是应对武汉疫情需求，打通线上问诊、处方流转、线下送药、医保报销全流程的最后一环。
The national medical insurance electronic credentials on the line in Wuhan, is also in response to Wuhan epidemic demand, open online consultation, prescription flow, online delivery of medicine, medical insurance reimbursement process as the last step.
2月24日，高血压、糖尿病等10类重症慢病患者，可以用医保卡在线问诊三家公立医院——武汉协和医院、武汉大学人民医院和武汉市中心医院。
On February 24, patients with 10 severe and chronic diseases, such as hypertension and diabetes, can consult three public hospitals online with medical insurance cards - Wuhan Hsiao He Hospital, Wuhan University People's Hospital and Wuhan Central Hospital.
2月26日，又增添一家平台型的微医互联网总医院。
On 26 February, a platform-type general hospital for micromedicine Internet was added.
武汉市医保局为这四家在线诊疗直接医保结算。
Wuhan Medical Insurance Bureau for these four online diagnosis and treatment direct health insurance settlement.
“如果不是疫情的特殊环境，医保打通互联网医疗的政策铺开不会这么快。
"If it had not been for the particular circumstances of the epidemic, health care access to the Internet would not have spread so quickly.
”南开大学卫生经济与医疗保障研究中心主任朱铭来对《财经》记者分析。
Zhu Ming-lai, director of the Center for Health Economics and Medical Security at Nankai University, told Caijing.
任毅因心脏支架手术，需长期服用阿托伐他汀。
Ren Yi needs long-term administration of atorvastatin due to cardiac stent surgery.
疫情暴发后，武汉市内交通暂停、小区实行全封闭管理，任毅的子女也无法帮忙，他得自己想法买药。
After the outbreak of the outbreak of traffic in Wuhan City, the implementation of a closed community management, Ren Yi children can not help him, he had to find their own way to buy drugs.
社区工作人员曾派车送任毅去医院取药，但就诊医院已成为新冠肺炎定点医院，普通门诊暂停，而且去医院，也担心会增加感染风险。
Community workers had sent Ren Yi to the hospital to pick up the drugs, but the hospital had become the designated hospital for Newcastle Pneumonia, the general out-patient service had been suspended and visits to the hospital were feared to increase the risk of infection.
社区工作人员也可以帮助去药店购买，但实在忙不过来，有时还会发生误漏。
Community workers can also help shop at pharmacies, but are overwhelmed and sometimes miss out.
任毅的困境，也是武汉近40万重症慢病患者正面临的。
Ren Yi's predicament, is also Wuhan nearly 400,000 patients with severe chronic diseases are facing.
任毅第一次自己在微医平台操作线上购药时失败了，因为要人脸识别，操作不能由子女代为执行，即使常用智能手机，上传病例信息等操作，对一位72岁的老人来说也并不容易。
For the first time, Ren failed when he bought drugs online on a micromedical platform, because Facebook recognition, operations cannot be performed by children, and even using smartphones and uploading case information is not easy for a 72-year-old.
最终在客服人员的帮助下，任毅第二次操作成功下单。
In the end in the customer service personnel under the help of Ren Yi the second operation successfully ordered.
武汉微医互联网医院在上线第1天就开出了近两万单处方，线下审核压力巨大。
Wuhan Micromedicine Internet Hospital in the first day on the line out nearly 20,000 single prescription, the pressure of off-line review.
因为，持社保卡的患者在线上购药，和医保系统并未打通，线上买药系统不能自动将患者的个人信息和医保账户对接，需要人工审核，这一审核过程平均每位患者需5—7分钟左右。
Because social-security-card patients buy drugs online, and health-care systems are not open, online drug-buying systems do not automatically connect patients "personal information to health-care accounts, requiring manual review - an average of about five to seven minutes per patient.
最终，国家医保局出手，连夜指导武汉完成国家医保电子凭证系统的对接，正式上线，打通数据，通过人脸识别等方式验证身份，从而减少部分医保线下核验流程，提升整体效率。
In the end, the National Health Insurance Bureau handed over night guidance to Wuhan to complete the docking of the national medical insurance electronic voucher system, officially put on line, open the data, and verify identity through face recognition, thus reducing part of the off-line verification process and improving overall efficiency.
“其实打破人们对互联网医疗的认知壁垒是最难的，既包括普通患者和医生的认知，也包括政策制定者的认知，疫情是一次机会。
"Breaking down the cognitive barriers to Internet health is the most difficult, both for ordinary patients and doctors and for policymakers, and the epidemic is an opportunity.
”一位资深互联网医疗人士对《财经》记者分析，如银川市，此前曾为互联网医院开通医保支付，可使用医保个人账户和医院的门诊统筹账户报销，但是由于用户习惯、报销比例、操作流程等问题，并没有因此产生超规模的用户增长。
A senior Internet medical source told Caijing that Yinchuan, a city that had previously paid for Internet hospitals with health care, could use Medicare personal accounts and out-patient co-ordinated accounts at hospitals, has not resulted in surpassing user growth because of user habits, reimbursement rates, operating procedures, etc.
在医院购药可走医保统筹账户报销，是很多患者倾向去医院购药的原因之一。
The fact that many patients tend to go to hospitals to buy medicines is one of the reasons why they are eligible for reimbursement from the Medicare Managed Account.
据《湖北日报》报道，武汉市中心医院在开通线上医保支付前，在线每天只有十几单购送药业务。
According to Hubei Daily, Wuhan central hospital in the opening of online health care payment, only a dozen online delivery business per day.
在2月24日纳入医保当天，线上处方购药送药就完成了50单。
On Feb. 24, the day of Medicare coverage, 50 prescriptions were completed.
线上平台可实施24小接诊。
The online platform is available for 24 small visits.
“一位在非洲支援的医生上线后对我们说，我们有时差，刚好可以跟国内的医生形成接力。
"We had a time lag and we were able to form a relay with doctors back home," a doctor in Africa told us after coming online.
”程怡介绍，微医的“新冠肺炎实时救助平台”上线之初，只有1500名呼吸科等专科医生，后经招募和卫健委号召，到目前已经增至4万余名医生参与其中。
"Cheng Yi said that at the start of the" New Crown Pneumonia Real-Time Rescue Platform "for micromedical practitioners, there were only 1,500 specialists such as respiratory doctors, but the number has risen to more than 40,000 by the call of the recruitment and health committee.
这既是政策的突破，也是对互联网诊疗的全面大考。
This is not only a policy breakthrough, but also a comprehensive examination of Internet diagnosis and treatment.
在线问诊平台在武汉疫情中能够发力，有赖于医保部门的报销支持。
The online consultation platform is able to exert its power in Wuhan, which depends on the reimbursement support of medical insurance department.
“微医首期与8家有医保定点资质的（武汉）药店线下合作，处方流转、药品供应，医保支付走统筹账户报销。
"The first phase of micro-medicine with eight (Wuhan) pharmacies with designated qualifications, prescription circulation, drug supply, medical insurance to pay for the coordinated account reimbursement.
”程怡介绍。
"said Cheng.
武汉协和医院的APP后续也开通了在线处方，纳入医保等功能也在逐步完善。
The APP of Wuhan Concorde Hospital has also opened online prescription, including health insurance and other functions are gradually improving.
武汉之外，一位正在同地方医保局对接的互联网医院人士告诉《财经》，虽然各方都在加速，但从获得互联网医院牌照，到完成医保支付的线上系统对接，目前看仍需要近两个月的时间。
Outside Wuhan, an Internet hospital official who is docking with a local health care bureau told Caijing that, although everyone is speeding up, it will still take nearly two months from getting an Internet hospital license to completing the online docking of health-care payments.
医保份额留给谁？上述武汉协和医生已经停止了在线问诊业务，他发现“有效”问题明显减少。
The Wuhan Concorde doctor, who has stopped consulting online, has found that the number of "effective" problems has declined significantly.
随着武汉当地紧急建设医院、隔离点，以及全国各地医生驰援，医疗资源紧张的问题得到缓解后，来线上咨询疑似症状的人锐减。
With the emergency construction of a local hospital in Wuhan, isolation points, and medical assistance from doctors across the country, the strain on medical resources has eased and the number of people coming online to consult with suspected symptoms has dropped sharply.
这说明情况不再紧张，时间要留给更多真正有需要的患者。
This shows that the situation is no longer tense and that time has to be reserved for more patients who really need it.
这也是此前，这位武汉协和医生使用互联网问诊平台两年后，最终停止的原因，在线上他遇到自己专业对口的患者越来越少。
That's why the Wuhan Concorde doctor, who used the Internet to consult his doctor for two years, finally stopped using the Internet. Fewer and fewer patients met his professional counterparts online.
疫情结束后，就会回归行业发展的真实状态。
When the outbreak is over, it will return to the true state of the industry.
朱铭来认为，互联网医疗毕竟是新开辟的一条路，虽能通过新的服务带来便捷，比如配送药品上门，但是谁来为快递费埋单，如何消化新增的价值是行业立足长久发展的关键。
After all, according to Zhu, Internet health is a new way of bringing convenience through new services, such as delivering medicines to the door, but who pays for the express delivery fee and how to absorb the added value is the key to the industry's long-term viability.
作为中国医药市场最大的埋单方，此次医保大踏步入场互联网医疗让众人充满期待。
As the largest single payment in the Chinese medicine market, the big step of medical care access to the Internet medical people are full of expectations.
但在医保控费的整体大环境下，互联网医院能在医保总盘获得中多少份额？上述互联网医疗资深人士分析，对于互联网医院报销，如果医保放开个人账户，是在挤占药店的市场，如果是走用于门诊、住院报销的医保统筹账户，则是占用医院总额预付的额度。
But in the overall context of health-care costs, how much can Internet hospitals get out of Medicare? The above-mentioned analysis of Internet-based health-care veterans shows that, for Internet hospitals, unlocking individual accounts is crowding out the pharmacy market, and out-patient, hospital-reimbursed co-ordinated accounts are prepaid hospital bills.
“在疫情时期是没问题，但是在这之后，医院要考虑自己的线下手术、住院等业务，肯定会对线上额度做平衡”。
"It's OK in an epidemic, but after that, hospitals need to think about their offline operations, hospitalizations, etc., and definitely balance the amount of money on the line."
医保也在提升资金统筹层次，但目前仍是地市级统筹，放开多少份额受地方决策影响。
Health care is also raising the overall level of funds, but is still a municipal level co-ordination, the number of shares open by local decision-making.
而地方的决策者对此也确实有所迟疑。
And local policymakers do hesitate.
一位辽宁省地方医保局工作人员向《财经》记者分析，将互联网医疗纳入医保，是供给侧改革，但是能解决多少患者需求是他更关心的。
A staff member of the Liaoning Provincial Health Care Bureau told Caijing that including Internet health care in medical insurance was a supply-side reform, but he was more concerned about how many patients needed to be addressed.
“我所在的辖区每隔100米就有一个药店，基本都是医保定点药店，春节期间不休息，即使在疫情期间，居民买药都没有受到影响。
"There is a drugstore every 100 meters in my district, and it's basically a health-care pharmacy that doesn't stop during the Spring Festival.
当地确实开通了几家互联网医院，但是知道的市民很少，有使用需求的更少。
Several Internet hospitals do exist, but few citizens are known and even fewer need to use them.
而且线上诊疗服务的标准、规范、定价都不明确，这也是我们迟疑的原因之一。
And the standards, norms and pricing of online services are unclear, which is one of the reasons why we hesitate.
”上述地方医保局工作人员分析。
The analysis was carried out by the local health authorities.
”朱铭来也认为，如果基层医疗服务体系发展完善，居民出门就能便捷地解决就医需求，“说实话，我认为互联网医疗没有什么发展机会”。
Zhu also believes that with a well-developed primary health-care system, residents can easily get out of their homes and seek medical treatment.
而现实中患者不断向三甲医院聚集，就医成本越来越高。
But in reality, patients keep gathering in Sanjia Hospital, the cost of medical treatment is increasing.
分级诊疗在基层的薄弱之处，是朱铭来眼中互联网医院真正的发展空间，它能够通过协调线上资源，来弥补线下就医资源的不足，也许有一天能够为我们提供健康管理增值服务的家庭医生，就是由我们自己在线上选择的。
The weakness of grading is that Zhu Ming-lai sees the Internet hospital as a real space for development. It can make up for the lack of medical resources under-line by coordinating online resources. The family doctor who may one day be able to provide value-added health management services to us is chosen online by ourselves.
全方位的线上服务，才能够留住最广大的医生资源。
A full range of online services to retain the largest number of doctors resources.
在目前，多家线上问诊平台仍将自己的下一步的主要业务定位在慢性病、常见病和复诊处方。
At present, a number of online consultation platforms still focus their next major business on chronic diseases, common diseases and re-diagnoses.
“医保不可能承担一切，那么未来消费者的习惯是否会改变，或者商业保险是否愿意为互联网医疗增值服务付费，这需要探索。
"If health care is not going to take care of everything, whether the habits of future consumers will change, or whether commercial insurance will be willing to pay for value-added medical services over the Internet," needs to be explored.
”朱铭来指出。
"Zhu pointed out.
全民医疗保障体系应当是多层次的。
The universal medical security system should be multi-level.
国家医保局也指出，到2030年，要建成以基本医疗保险为主体，医疗救助为托底，补充医疗保险、商业健康保险、慈善捐赠、医疗互助共同发展的多层次医疗保障制度体系。
According to the National Health Insurance Institute, by 2030 a multi-level medical security system based on basic medical insurance, with medical assistance as the basis, will be in place to complement the development of medical insurance, commercial health insurance, charitable donations and mutual medical assistance.
商业保险已经在探路。
Commercial insurance is already exploring the way.
众安保险在2019年7月获得互联网医院牌照，同年12月下旬正式上线。
The company was granted an Internet hospital licence in July 2019 and went live in late December of the same year.
通过连接互联网保险与互联网医院的相关业务，众安在内部形成医疗服务闭环。
By connecting the Internet insurance and Internet hospital-related services, the public health services in-house formed a closed loop.
当公立医院和平台型互联网企业同时站在互联网医院的赛道上，“真正拼的是服务”，多位业内人士向《财经》记者指出，互联网医疗真正的优势在于线上运营能力，而公立医院尤其是三级医院的线下业务已经“人满为患”，其在线上的投入并不可观，长期竞争力仍有限。
When public hospitals and platform-based Internet companies are standing on the Internet hospital track, "the real battle is for service," a number of industry sources told Caijing. Several industry sources told Caijing that the real advantage of Internet medicine lies in the ability to operate online, while the offline operations of public hospitals, especially level-III hospitals, are already "overcrowded," with limited online investment and limited long-term competitiveness.
程怡虽然对进入常态化的互联网医疗更抱有信心，但她也很清楚，只有医、检、药、保、数据全部打通，互联网医疗的价值才能充分体现，才有可能把业务从线下迁移到线上。
While Cheng is more confident about moving into normalized Internet health care, she knows that the value of Internet health will be fully realized only when doctors, inspectors, drugs, health care and data are fully available, making it possible to move operations from offline to online.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click Here for more information about the epidemic:: Archives & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and may not be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
在武汉最紧张的一周，全国的线上问诊都暴增。
During Wuhan's most intense week, online consultations have surged across the country.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "在武汉最紧张的一周，全国的线上问诊都暴增";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; &
var msg_desc = "受疫情期间影响，多地医保快速开通互联网医疗支付业务，但这距离行业的春天或许还远，长期的“医保份额”划定仍是瓶颈，找到其他的买单方也在探索期";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; As health-care coverage rapidly opened up its Internet-based health-care payment business during the epidemic, it may be far from the industry's spring, long-term "health-care quotas" remain a bottleneck, and other paying parties are at & quot; & quot; at & quot;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
