武汉“四类人员”集中收治第一日：“我们没有被抛弃！”。
Wuhan "four categories of personnel" concentrated treatment on the first day: "We have not been abandoned!"
黎诗韵 等。
Rhyme Lai, etc.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
在医学专家们看来，集中收留、隔离是第一步。
Centralized accommodation and isolation are the first steps, according to medical experts.
接下来对疑似病患的确诊、分类诊治、收治入院，将是对医疗、物资、人员分配等多重资源配置能力的综合考验，相信各方面群策群力可以渡过难关文 |《财经》记者 黎诗韵 高洪浩 房宫一柳 《财经》特派武汉记者信娜 刘以秦 实习生马可欣编辑 |宋玮2020年2月3日上午9时30分，陈薇收到了一条来自武汉协和医院的短信：“你于1月29日检测新型冠状病毒肺炎核酸结果如下：双阳（确诊）。
The diagnosis, classification, treatment and admission of suspected patients will be a comprehensive test of the ability of multiple resources allocation, including medical treatment, materials and personnel distribution. We believe that all sides can work together to tide over the difficulties.
”多数人收到这条短信，心情可能是崩溃的。
"Most people get this message and their mood can break down.
对于武汉那些“疑似患者”来说，这不算是一个坏消息，因为确诊意味着能住上医院了。
For Wuhan's "suspected patients," this is not bad news, because the diagnosis means access to a hospital.
他们不用再拖着疲惫的身体往返医院去打针，不用再凌晨去定点医院排队等待领核酸试纸。
They no longer have to drag their tired bodies to and fro to the hospital for needles, nor do they have to wait in line to get nucleic acid test strips in the early morning.
2月2日，武汉市政府和卫健委采取了一系列新举措，缓解疑似患者的确诊难题。
On February 2, Wuhan city government and health committee took a series of new measures to ease the problem of diagnosis of suspected patients.
《财经》记者了解到，2月2日武汉新增了数家核酸试剂检测机构，分别是武汉大学人民医院、武汉市第七医院、普爱医院等。
On February 2, Wuhan added several new nucleic acid reagent testing organizations, namely Wuhan University People's Hospital, Wuhan Seventh Hospital, Pu Ei Hospital, and so on.
也是在2月2日，武汉决定征用17家第四批、10家第五批定点医院，共包含床位2183个，当日火神山医院建成并交付了1000多张床位。
Also on February 2, Wuhan decided to requisition 17 fourth-batch hospitals and 10 fifth-batch designated hospitals, containing 2,183 beds.
3日，武汉又新建位于武汉国际会展中心、洪山体育馆和武汉客厅的三处“方舱医院”，提供3400张医疗床位，主要收治新冠肺炎的轻症确诊患者。
Wuhan on the 3rd, the new Wuhan International Convention and Exhibition Center, Hongshan Stadium and Wuhan sitting room of the three "square cabin hospitals," providing 3,400 beds, mainly for patients diagnosed with mild cases of New Crown Pneumonia.
至此，武汉的床位短缺情况将有所缓解。
So far, Wuhan bed shortage will be alleviated.
2月2日，武汉市新型肺炎防控指挥部发布第十号通告，决定自通告发布之日起，对“四类人员”集中收治和隔离。
On February 2, Wuhan New Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command issued Circular No. 10, the decision from the day the notice was issued, the "four categories of personnel" concentrated treatment and isolation.
这“四类人员”分别是：确诊的新冠肺炎患者、疑似的新冠肺炎患者、无法明确排除新冠肺炎可能的发热患者、确诊患者的密切接触者。
The four groups are confirmed patients with pneumonia, suspected new crown pneumonia, febrile patients unable to definitively rule out possible new crown pneumonia, and close contacts with confirmed patients.
其中，重症的确诊患者必须送定点医院，重症的疑似患者必须入院治疗，无法进入定点医院的确诊患者、无法入院隔离的疑似患者，需征用其他医院或酒店等集中隔离收治。
Among them, patients diagnosed with severe illness must be sent to a designated hospital, severe patients must be admitted to hospital, patients who cannot be admitted to designated hospitals, suspected patients who cannot be hospitalized, need to be placed in centralized isolation such as other hospitals or hotels.
上述通告内容受到了各方面的普遍肯定。
The content of the above-mentioned circular has been generally acknowledged by all parties.
一位医疗工作者对《财经》记者说：“这是一个至关重要的举措，武汉终于做了，快落实吧！”同时，外界高度关注的武汉火神山医院已经正式启用。
A medical worker told Caijing News: "This is a vital move, Wuhan has finally done it, quickly implement it!" Meanwhile, Wuhan Huoshen Mountain Hospital has been officially opened.
据央视报道，2月4日上午首批入住了50位病人，许多患者将其视为获得救治的希望。
According to CCTV, the first group of 50 patients checked in on the morning of February 4, and many saw them as a hope of receiving treatment.
一位医护人员告诉《财经》记者，轻症还是以社区配合在家隔离为主，火神山等医院将解决部分重症病患的需求。
A medical worker told Caijing that light cases still rely on community-based home isolation, and hospitals such as Fosen Mountain will address the needs of some seriously ill patients.
2月3日，武汉新冠肺炎防控指挥部表示，正在追踪各类互联网平台法发布的本人或亲友的求助信息，目前已经跟进了135条，“病患已得到妥善安置。
On February 3, Wuhan Xinguan Pneumonia Control Command said it was tracking the help messages issued by friends and relatives on various Internet platforms.
”在接受《财经》采访的医学专家们看来，集中收留、隔离是第一步，接下来对疑似病患的确诊、分类诊治，将是对医疗、物资、人员分配等多重资源配置能力的综合考验，相信各方面群策群力可以渡过难关。
According to medical experts interviewed by Caijing, centralized shelter and isolation are the first step. The diagnosis, classification and treatment of suspected patients will be a comprehensive test of the ability to allocate resources among medical, material and personnel, believing that all can work together to tide over the difficulties.
（点击可查看大图）隔离点：接收任务重、准备尚不充分一位护士解释，酒店目前只是观察隔离点，不能打针不能吃药，不能安排住院。
A nurse explained that the hotel was only observing the quarantine point, could not take medication and could not be hospitalized.
2月2日上午，武汉市新型肺炎防控指挥部发出通知，决定对确诊、疑似等“四类人员”集中收治和隔离。
February 2 morning, Wuhan City, the new command of pneumonia control issued a notice, decided to diagnose, suspected and other "four categories of personnel" concentrated treatment and isolation.
“我们没有被抛弃！”一位患者向《财经》记者回忆看到通知时的第一感受。
"We were not abandoned!" One patient recalled to Caijing how he felt when he saw the announcement.
2月3日上午，家住武汉市硚口区某小区的居民王森，接到社区电话，通知她去酒店隔离。
February 3 morning, home in Wuhan Zhangkou District Zhangkou district resident Wang Sen, community telephone, informed her to go to the hotel isolation.
一周前她持续低烧，体温37.5℃左右，成为社区疑似新冠肺炎的重点关注对象。
A week ago she suffered from a low fever, with a body temperature of about 37.5 degrees Celsius, which has become a major concern in the community.
等王森到达时，定点隔离酒店的房间快要住满了。
By the time Wang Sen arrived, the bungalow at the Sentinel Isolation Hotel was almost full.
王森排第48位，工作人员说还剩下28个房间。
Wang ranked 48th, leaving 28 rooms, officials said.
之后15分钟里，分别有三辆警车带着社区的发热病人来到该酒店，得知酒店没房后，又匆匆离去。
Within the next 15 minutes, three police cars arrived at the hotel with febrile patients from the community, learned that the hotel was empty and then hurried away.
酒店门口的字条一目了然——「新冠肺炎隔离点」，这里将住进约140名发热病人，每人一个房间。
The note at the entrance to the hotel is very clear - the New Crown Pneumonia Isolation Point, which will house about 140 febrile patients per room.
大多数人入住时至少拎着两个包，有的还拿着盆，神情充满期盼。
Most people check in with at least two bags, some with pots and an expectant expression.
《财经》记者了解到，武汉最近两天新启用的多个隔离点里，有的目前只负责隔离，并不都是医院的对接口。
"Caijing" reporter learned that Wuhan in the last two days opened a number of new isolation points, some are currently only responsible for isolation, not all of the hospital interface.
一位现场医护人员说，两三天后，住在这里的人将统一进行核酸试剂盒检测。
In two or three days, the people living there will be testing nucleic acid kits, said a field medical worker.
结果为阴性的人可以直接离开。
Those who are negative can leave directly.
确诊的病人里，轻症会继续在酒店隔离，重症需要去医院。
Among the confirmed patients, the mild illness will continue to be isolated in the hotel, serious need to go to hospital.
2月2日下午5时，罗忆心中的石头终于落地。
February 2 at 5 p.m., the heart of the stone finally fell.
他重病多日而寻医无门的哥哥，接到了社区卫生站的通知，当晚可以入住集中隔离点。
His brother, who had been ill for many days and sought medical attention, was notified by the community health post that he could be admitted to the intensive quarantine facility that night.
当晚8时，罗忆接到了社区卫生站司机的电话：“你哥哥需要离开集中隔离的酒店了。
At 8 p. m., he received a phone call from the community health station driver: "Your brother needs to leave the Centrally Isolated Hotel.
”他瞬间懵了。
He was stunned.
接着，发着超过39度的哥哥被送回家，社区卫生站劝慰家属：高烧严重，隔离点没有医生和检测设备，暂居家中为宜。
His brother, who had been sent home with more than 39 degrees, was taken home and the community health post advised the family that the fever was severe, that the isolation site lacked doctors and testing equipment and that it was appropriate to stay at home.
罗忆的哥哥被重新带上了车， 送到武汉市第一医院，排队做完新一轮检测，最后自己回到居所。
Luo Yi's brother was taken back to the first hospital in Wuhan City, queuing up to do a new round of tests, and finally returned to his home.
对于隔离点没有安排好相应的隔离措施，罗忆觉得有点遗憾。
For the isolation point did not arrange for the corresponding isolation measures, memory felt a bit sorry.
根据2月2日发布的《社区发热病人集中留观点技术指南》，原则上每个留观点按每50人配备1医（最好是全科医生或呼吸科医生）1护，能交接班。
According to the Technical Guide to Concentration of Fever Patients in the Community, published on February 2, each viewpoint is, in principle, followed by one doctor for every 50 people (preferably a general practitioner or respirator).
如果发热者出现病情加重的现象，应立即向当地乡镇卫生院或社区卫生服务中心报告，同时立即送定点医疗机构进行隔离治疗、采样和检测。
If fever sufferers develop, they should immediately report to local township clinics or community health service centers, and immediately send designated medical institutions for isolation treatment, sampling and testing.
一位区政府总值班室的工作人员向《财经》记者解释，隔离点正在实施过程中，医护人员需要从一线抽取，病人要住、要吃、要睡，各种条件需要一一弄好。
A district government official on duty explained to Caijing that during the implementation of the quarantine point, medical staff had to take a first-line check-up, and the patients needed to live, eat and sleep.
“在封城的情况下，做这些事情异常艰难。
"It is very difficult to do these things in the context of the siege.
所以这是一个渐进推进的过程， “他说。
So it's a gradual process, "he said.
检测试剂：有的敏感度不高，需重复检测“检出来是阳性就一定是阳性，但检测出是阴性，则不一定是阴性。
Detection reagents: some sensitivity is not high, need to repeat the test "positive detection must be positive, but negative detection is not necessarily negative.
”医生说。
'said the doctor.
无论是隔离点还是社区分流的安排，都无法绕过一个问题：多数医院需要病人确诊才能收治，而按目前的流程要求，确诊关键点在于试剂盒的检测容量。
Neither the isolation point nor the community diversion arrangement can circumvent one problem: most hospitals require patient diagnosis to be admitted, and the critical point of diagnosis, as required by current procedures, is the detection capacity of the kit.
一个好的趋势是，核酸确诊试剂的产能在放开，越来越多的疑似病患能尽快用上。
A good trend is that the capacity of DNA diagnostic reagents is being unlocked and that more and more suspected patients can be used as quickly as possible.
武汉各区的隔离点，也成了很多疑似病患获取试纸的新通道。
Wuhan district of the isolation of many suspected patients have become a new access to paper.
据《财经》记者了解，目前武汉市新开放可做核酸检测的医院如下：武汉大学人民医院，但前提是有其他医院的检测证明，疑似病人才可以做；普爱医院，两院区皆可做，需有症状及CT，需先去发热门诊开单；武汉第七医院，需要提前预约，预约成功后，过五天去做，目前免费；中山医院需预约，每日可做100例以上，医院有导医陪同；同济医院，2天出结果，费用300元；武汉中山医院，需要带上病历资料直接去医院找发热门诊开单检测，无需预约，建议上午去。
Wu Han University People's Hospital can do so only if there is a test certificate from other hospitals, but only if there are other hospitals can do, symptoms and CT, need to go to fever clinic, Wuhan 7th Hospital, need to make advance appointments, after the successful appointment, five days, the hospital is free of charge.
2月3日，国家卫健委高级别专家组成员、中国工程院院士李兰娟在接受媒体采访时表示，武汉目前检测试剂数量不够，因此不是每个人能够得到检测。
In an interview with the media on February 3, Li Lanjuan, a member of the high-level expert group of the National Fitness and Health Commission and member of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, said in an interview with the media.
“早发现、早诊断、早隔离、早治疗，目前在武汉还做不到，希望全国支持武汉。
"Early detection, early diagnosis, early isolation, early treatment, is not yet available in Wuhan, hope that the whole country support Wuhan.
”《财经》记者还了解到，在武汉一些医院，相关检测预约排队及检测周期仍然偏长，有的机构检测出来的“假阴性”率高，部分患者需要重复检测。
The Caijing reporter also learned that in some Wuhan hospitals, waiting lists and check-ups for related tests are still too long, with some institutions testing for "false negative" rates and some patients needing repeated tests.
武汉大学中南医院急诊中心主任助理、急诊外科主任沈俊对《财经》记者说，在新冠肺炎的早期，由于有的试剂盒存在不确定性，有时毫无症状的患者核酸检测也是阳性，医院为了再次确认会进行“双阳检测”。
In the early days of New Crown Pneumonia, hospitals tested positive for nucleic acid, sometimes asymptomatic patients, said Shen Jun, assistant director of emergency surgery at Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital and director of emergency surgery.
但他认为，现在应当已经不需要了。
In his view, however, that should no longer be the case.
“现在了解到核酸试剂是特异性强，敏感性却不高，这意味着如果你检出来是阳性就一定是阳性，但是检测是阴性，则不一定是阴性。
"The fact that nucleic acid reagents are known to be specific but not highly sensitive means that if you test positive you must be positive, but negative tests do not necessarily mean negative.
“他说。
'he said.
如果病人第一次检测结果为阴性，这意味着，医生可能要再检验一次。
If the patient's first test results are negative, this means that the doctor may have to take a second test.
一位武汉定点医院的医生告诉《财经》记者，他见过肺CT表现为严重病毒性肺炎的患者，核酸两次检测都是阴性，最后转阳。
A doctor at Wuhan Ding-point Hospital told Caijing that he had seen patients with pulmonary CT showing severe viral pneumonia and that nucleic acid tests were negative on both occasions and turned positive.
他们医院核酸试剂的阳性率为45%。
Their hospital nucleic acid reagent positive rate is 45%.
之前在一些疑似病患口中，排上试剂盒检测堪比“中彩票”。
Previously, in the mouth of some suspected patients, the test kit on the test kit is akin to "winning the lottery."
而检测试剂盒并不能百分之百准确，需要重复检测，将延长患者住院的等待时间。
And the test kit is not 100% accurate, need to repeat the test, will prolong the waiting time of patients in hospital.
这也导致一部分有着肺部CT磨玻璃状的高度疑似病患，因试剂结果呈阴性，而排不上床位。
This also led to a high proportion of highly suspected patients with pulmonary CT grind-glass, who failed to make it to the bed due to negative reagent results.
沈俊的同事、中南医院影像科主任张笑春发了一则朋友圈，建议用CT影像作为目前新冠肺炎的主要依据。
Shen Jun's colleague Zhang Xiaochunfa, director of the imaging department of Zhongnan Hospital, suggested CT imaging as the main basis for the current crown pneumonia.
她见过一些起病隐匿、一次甚至多次核酸阴性、无任何临床症状的患者，造成了家庭聚集性的发病。
She has seen cases of insidious onset, one or more nucleic acid negative, without any clinical symptoms, resulting in the onset of familial aggregation.
张笑春建议，对CT影像阳性的患者都采取强制在酒店或它处隔离的方法。
Zhang suggested that CT-positive patients should be forced to use isolation in the hotel or elsewhere.
据悉，张笑春的家人也有感染，她说一个医生家庭防护措施比普通市民要严格都如此，何况普通市民。
Zhang's family is also infected, she said, adding that a doctor's home protection measures are more stringent than those of ordinary citizens, not to mention ordinary citizens.
另一位医学专家对《财经》记者表示，即使文件已经做出规定，但今天的感染病例可能一时不能全部安置不来，还需时间，就需要加强居家防护。
Another medical expert told Caijing that even with the filing, today's infections may not be fully contained for a while, and time will be needed to strengthen home protection.
床位：火神山和方舱医院都开始收治“毕竟一切都在变好，那我希望会越来越好。
Beds: Mount Fire and the Fangcao Hospital are both starting to treat. After all, everything is getting better and better.
”在医疗资源紧张的武汉，床位主要是为已经确诊、或疑似的新冠肺炎患者准备的。
In Wuhan, where medical resources are scarce, beds are reserved for patients with confirmed or suspected pneumonia.
拥有床位，意味着有了专业的医护人员、专业的医疗设备支持，当病人出现突然、危险情况时，可以得到及时救治。
Having a bed means professional medical staff, professional medical equipment to support patients in the event of a sudden, dangerous situation, can be promptly treated.
这也是为什么许多病情转重的病人急求床位的原因。
This is why many patients with severe illness seek emergency beds.
武汉正在抓紧腾挪、新增能收纳中重症病人的医院床位。
Wuhan is holding fast to add hospital beds for patients with moderate or severe illnesses.
截止2月3日23:00，武汉全市定点医院病床已用8279，大于开放床位8199，武汉市卫健委表示，这是部分医院按“应收尽收”的要求，尽最大努力安排加床。
As of 2300 hours February 3, Wuhan city-wide designated hospital beds have been used 8,279, larger than the open bed of 8199, Wuhan City Health Commission said that this is a part of the hospital "receivable" requirements, do their best to arrange extra beds.
床位仍是武汉市抓紧解决的重要问题。
Bed space is still an important problem in Wuhan city.
2月4日上午10点，武汉洪山体育馆内。
February 4th, 10: 00 a.m., Hongshan Sports Center, Wuhan.
《财经》记者看到身穿城市管理局制服的工作人员进入开始封馆。
Caijing reporter saw the staff wearing city administration uniforms enter the opening closed.
之后，将会有90名医护人员负责这处医院内病人的日常监测与治疗，“医护人员一到位，就开始收治患者。
After that, 90 medical staff will be responsible for the daily monitoring and treatment of patients in the hospital. As soon as medical personnel are in place, patients will begin to be treated
”一张被子一叠两折，一面垫在床板上，一面盖在身上，下面有电热毯。
"A quilt was folded in half, with one side propped over the bed, the other over the body, and an electric blanket under it.
单人床旁边放着一套课桌椅，可以放个人用品。
Next to the single bed was a set of desks and chairs for personal effects.
前来支援的医疗队有中南医院，志愿队有湘雅医院。
Medical teams came to support the South China Hospital, the volunteer team has Xiangya Hospital.
2月3日晚对于现场工作人员来说是难眠的一夜。
The night of 3 February was a sleepless night for field staff.
一位施工人员说，他只眯了五十分钟，“然后被电话惊醒，不敢接，怕现场出什么事，赶紧坐起来跑到现场。
"Then he was woken up by the phone and didn't dare to answer it. He sat up and ran to the scene, afraid of something going on at the scene.
”2月4日上午，他们忙着搬运板材，将不同区域分隔，成为互不连通的隔离空间。
On the morning of February 4, they were too busy moving sheets to separate the different areas into disconnected compartments.
医护人员工作区和病人区是分开的，他们各自拥有自己的生活区，可如厕、洗漱。
The working area of medical staff and patient area are separate, they each have their own living area, can toilet, wash.
几位工作人员还在体育馆通道上方张贴标识，“二单元”。
Several staff also put up signs above the gymnasium aisles, "Unit 2."
现场负责人介绍，每一个单元，代表一个病区，体育馆将有三个病区。
Each unit represents a sick area and the gymnasium will have three disease areas, the site manager said.
医生及患者也有各自不同的通道，能够有效做到物理隔离。
Doctors and patients also have different pathways that allow for effective physical isolation.
“这是连夜手画的”，一位负责人现场摊开了社区图纸，他说“根本没时间用电脑出图纸。
"It was done overnight," said one person in charge, who spread out community drawings. "There's no time to use a computer to produce them."
”据《财经》记者了解，临建医院的设计方为中南建筑设计，与雷神山医院相同。
According to Caijing, the design of the Linjian hospital was designed by Zhongnan architectural design, the same as that of Lei Shenshan Hospital.
《财经》记者获悉，现场还需要新开一个发热门诊，改造预计在4日晚12点前完成。
Caijing reporter learned that the scene also needs to open a new fever clinic, the renovation is expected to be completed before 12: 00 pm on the 4th.
在城市的另一边，武汉火神山医院已经竣工交付使用，从2月4日开始集中收治新型冠状病毒肺炎患者。
On the other side of the city, Wuhan Fosen Mountain Hospital has been completed for use, from February 4 to concentrate on the treatment of patients with new coronavirus pneumonia.
医院总建筑面积3.39万平方米，编设床位1000张，开设重症监护病区、重症病区、普通病区，设置感染控制、检验、特诊、放射诊断等辅助科室。
With a total floor area of 33,900 square metres and 1,000 beds, the hospital operates in intensive care, severe and common disease areas, with auxiliary departments for infection control, testing, special consultation and radiological diagnosis.
火神山与雷神山医院加起来，共有2600张病床，有人担心床位是否足够？一位定点医院医生告诉《财经》记者，目前真正重症的患者数量并不多，大部分是轻症患者，可以自行在家隔离，或是社区统一安排隔离。
A doctor at a designated hospital told Caijing that the number of people suffering from serious illnesses is not very high, most of them are mild cases and can either isolate themselves at home or arrange for isolation in the community.
一位一线定点医院的医生告诉《财经》记者，火神山和雷神山医院开放使用后，可以有效缓解市区内医院的压力，确诊的重症病人可以立即转院，“我们就可以开放出病床给其他病患。
A doctor at the first-tier designated hospital told Caijing that the opening of the Mount Fire and Lui Shenshan hospitals would effectively relieve the pressure on hospitals in the urban areas.
”“毕竟一切都在变好，那我希望会越来越好。
"After all, everything is getting better, and I hope it will get better.
“之前曾接受《财经》记者采访的李莉说。
"Li Li, who had previously been interviewed by Caijing, said.
（文中王森、罗忆、刘梅、李莉为化名）本文为《财经》与腾讯新闻独家合作内容，谢绝转载。
(Wang Sen, Liu Yi, Liu Mei, Li Li for alias) This article for "Caijing" and Tencent News exclusive cooperation content, declined to reproduce.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click Here for more information about the epidemic:: Archives & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and may not be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉“四类人员”集中收治第一日：“我们没有被抛弃！”。
Wuhan "four categories of personnel" concentrated treatment on the first day: "We have not been abandoned!"
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉“四类人员”集中收治第一日：“我们没有被抛弃！”";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "在医学专家们看来，集中收留、隔离是第一步。
var msg _ desc = & quot; centralized placement and isolation is, in the opinion of medical experts, the first step.
接下来对疑似病患的确诊、分类诊治、收治入院，将是对医疗、物资、人员分配等多重资源配置能力的综合考验，相信各方面群策群力可以渡过难关";。
The next step in diagnosing, categorizing, treating, and admitting suspected patients will be a comprehensive test of its ability to allocate resources -- medical, material and personnel -- and believes that all can pull together to tide over RTS.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
