航拍泉州疫情隔离酒店坍塌现场：40余人生还，知情人披露前情后果。
Aerial shooting Quanzhou epidemic isolation hotel collapse site: more than 40 people still alive, the insider disclosed the consequences of the situation.
俞琴 白兆东 鲁伟。
Yu Qin Bai Zhaodong Ruwei.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
该酒店之前被改造为泉州鲤城区的医学观察点，用以隔离观察密切接触者，事发时被困人数约70人。
The hotel was previously converted into a medical observation point in Quanzhou's Lei City to isolate close contacts, trapping about 70 people at the time.
参与救援的人士表示，现场情况“惨烈”。
People involved in the rescue said the scene was "tragic."
知情人称，酒店所在建筑曾进行大规模改造Play文 |《财经》记者俞琴白兆东鲁伟编辑 | 鲁伟3月7日19时许，福建省泉州市鲤城区欣佳酒店发生坍塌事故，该酒店为新冠肺炎疫情隔离点。
At about 1900 hours on March 7, a collapse occurred at the Xinjia Hotel, Yicheng District, Quanzhou City, Fujian Province. The hotel was quarantined with new crown pneumonia.
欣佳酒店发生楼体坍塌时被困人员约70人。
About 70 people were trapped when the building collapsed.
据人民日报消息，3月8日8时16分，厦门市消防救援支队救出一名被困男子，他的妻子和孩子还被压在堆积物中，至此，现场已救出48人。
At 8: 16 a.m. on March 8, a trapped man was rescued by a fire rescue detachment in Xiamen. His wife and children were also crushed in a pile, and 48 people were rescued at the scene, the People's Daily reported.
另据泉州市政府通报，酒店发生楼体坍塌事故。
According to Quanzhou City government reported that the hotel building collapse accident.
经过摸排，事发后大楼内受困71人，另有9人自行逃生，截至3月8日6时，现场救出36人。
As of 0600 hours on 8 March, 36 people had been rescued from the site of the incident, out of a total of 71 people trapped inside the building and 9 others who had escaped by themselves.
国务院安委会办公室已派出由副主任付建华带队的工作组赶赴现场，指导协助地方开展救援处置工作。
The Office of the Security Committee of the State Council has dispatched a team led by deputy director Fu Jianhua to the scene to guide local rescue and disposal efforts.
欣佳酒店系省外疫情重点地区来鲤人员集中医学观察点。
Xinjia Hotel is a key area outside the province to focus on the medical observation point carp.
一份文件截图显示，欣佳酒店所在的社区居委会曾发出通知，自2月18日以后，来自湖北（武汉）、温州市乐清市、泰顺县鹿城区、龙湾区、瓯海区、瑞安市、永嘉县等地返回鲤城区人员将实行集中隔离，而隔离点正是欣佳酒店。
Since February 18, people returning to Lei Cheng from Hubei (Wuhan), Wenzhou Yueqing, Lucheng, Longwan, Ouhai, Ruian and Yongjia counties will be centralized and separated, according to a document showing the neighbourhood committee where Xinjia Hotel is located.
官方通报显示，事故发生后，国家有关部委通过视频连线、派出工作组等指导救援；福建省、泉州市、鲤城区立即组织现场搜救和医疗救治工作。
After the accident, the relevant government ministries provided guidance and assistance via video link and dispatched working groups, while rescue and medical treatment was immediately organized in Fujian, Quanzhou and Lei cities.
泉州市启动应急预案，成立应急救援工作领导小组，由市委书记康涛、市长王永礼任组长，领导小组下设救援、医疗、善后、事故调查等工作组。
Quanzhou City launched an emergency preparedness plan, set up a leading group for emergency rescue work, chaired by municipal party secretary Kang Tao, mayor Wang Yongli, led by the leading group set up rescue, medical, rehabilitation, accident investigation and other working groups.
事发当晚，省、市、区三级出动吊车、起重机、挖掘机等应急救援车辆43部、消防车辆126部、救护车20部，消防、医务及其他救援人员1000余名。
On the night of the accident, 43 emergency rescue vehicles, 126 fire-fighting vehicles, 20 ambulances and over 1,000 fire-fighting, medical and other rescue personnel were deployed at the provincial, city and district levels.
截至发稿时，现场施救仍在进行，事故原因正在调查。
At the time of writing, on-site rescue is still under way, the cause of the accident is being investigated.
“领导在现场，我其实现在不知道怎么回答你。
"The leader was there and I don't know what to say to you right now.
”3月7日晚22点20分，一名泉州市应急管理局的工作人员告诉《财经》记者，他目前正在单位，不清楚现场情况，此时他正打算去机场，“国务院来人了，还有省里面在派人过来，我们现在派车去机场接他们。
"On March 7 at 22: 20 pm, a Quanzhou emergency department worker told Caijing that he was at work, unaware of the situation, when he was about to leave for the airport.
”据目击者称，欣佳酒店几乎是整体性坍塌，现场一片狼藉，有围观群众称“里面还有很多人被压住”。
According to eyewitnesses, the hotel collapsed almost in its entirety, and the scene was a mess, with onlookers saying "there are still many people trapped inside."
一位参与现场救援的人士告诉《财经》记者，3月7日晚9点半左右，救援队抵达事故现场。
A person involved in the scene told Caijing that the rescue team arrived at the scene of the accident at about 9: 30 pm on March 7.
此时官方已经对附近几个路口进行封锁，只准救援车辆进入，事故现场附近停了70多辆消防车，官方、民间的救援力量正在开展工作。
Authorities have blocked several nearby intersections, allowing only rescue vehicles to enter, the scene of the accident stopped more than 70 fire trucks, the official, civilian rescue forces are working.
Play上述人士表示，现场情况“惨烈”，多具遗体被大梁压住，有些靠酒店停放的汽车，车头被砸掉。
Play said the scene was "tragic," with many bodies crushed by beams, some parked by hotels and the front of the car smashed.
他描述称：房屋前墙往后倾，后墙往前倾，呈“人字形”——这看起来不同寻常，“一定是某几个承重的地方没达到要求，才造成这种受力结果。
The front wall of the house leans back and the back wall leans forward in a "zigzag pattern" - which seems unusual, he describes. "It must be that some load-bearing area didn't meet the requirements that caused the stress.
”这位人士推测，很可能是大楼的框架结构受到了破坏，这点在后期作业中找到印证，他发现有遇难者被大梁压住，“出现的遗体被大梁压住，那证明大梁有断裂或者严重挤压，要不这样的钢质框架结构被大梁压倒比较少见。
The person speculated that the damage to the building's framework was most likely due to damage to the building's framework, which was confirmed by later work, when he discovered that the victims had been crushed by beams.
”另一方面，该人士在现场注意到，顶楼天花板是混凝土结构，厚15厘米左右。
On the other hand, the man noticed on the spot that the ceiling of the penthouse was a concrete structure, about 15 centimetres thick.
他表示，对于这栋建筑来说，如果每一层楼的天花板都这么厚，底下是受不了这么重的压力的。
For the building, he says, if the ceiling on each floor is so thick, it can't stand the stress.
尽管有搜救犬和生命探测仪，但由于现场人员较多，生命探测仪难以开展工作，而对于搜救犬，工作的空间十分有限，“搜救犬进去四次，两次找到人。
Despite the presence of search and rescue dogs and life detectors, life detectors are difficult to operate because of the large number of field personnel, and for search and rescue dogs, there is very limited room to work. "Search and rescue dogs go in four times and find people twice.
” 上述参与现场救援的人士预测，事发当晚10点半、甚至11点半前救出来的人，生存概率会比较大，“后面没出来，凶多吉少。
Those involved in the rescue predicted that those rescued at 10: 30 or even 11: 30 on the night of the incident would have a better chance of surviving.
”Play公开信息显示，欣佳酒店于2018年6月开业，酒店内拥有多种类型客房共计80间。
The hotel, which opened in June 2018, boasts 80 rooms of various types, according to public information.
欣佳酒店注册时间为2018年3月28日，经营者为杨金锵，登记地址为泉州市鲤城区常泰街道上村社区南环路1688号，该楼四至六层为客房。
Xinjia Hotel is registered on March 28, 2018. The operator is Yang Jinqiang, registered at 1688 South Ring Road, Shangcun Street, Changtai Street, Lei Cheng, Quanzhou City. The 4th to 6th floors of the building are guest rooms.
通过公开资料检索，注册地址与欣佳酒店相同的还有另外多家企业，其中包括泉州好车汇汽车贸易有限公司（下称好车汇公司）、泉州全德宝汽车销售有限公司（下称全德宝公司）、泉州华宝汽车销售服务有限公司（下称华宝公司）、福建省顶鑫再生资源回收有限责任公司、鲤城区小灰餐饮店、鲤城区林进权餐饮店、鲤城区琴悦足浴中心、鲤城区沈增华便利店等。
Through the open information search, the registered address and Xinjia Hotel is the same as many other enterprises, including Quanzhou Good Car Transfer Co. Ltd. Quanzhou Quanzhou City Automobile Sales Co. Ltd. (Quanzhou City), Quanzhou City Pioneer Renewable Resources Recycling Co. Ltd., Lei Cheng Dining Restaurant, Lei Cheng Yue Foot Bath Centre, Lei Cheng Yue Foot Bath Centre and Shen Zhenhua Convenience Shop.
3月7日，有知情人告诉《财经》记者，“房主将一楼出租给了一家汽车4S店”，该楼除了酒店外，还有汽车销售和足浴等其他营业项目。
On March 7, a person familiar with the matter told Caijing that "the owner rented the first floor to a 4S car store," which, in addition to the hotel, also offers other business items such as car sales and foot bathing.
事发时，“这栋楼房正处于装修改造期间”。
At the time of the incident, "the building is in the renovation period."
另有消息称，楼内一家4S店在装修中可能损坏了室内支撑柱，从而导致坍塌事故发生。
Another source said that the building in a 4S shop in the renovation may damage the indoor support column, resulting in collapse accident.
具体原因究竟如何，尚待权威机构调查确认。
The exact reasons are yet to be confirmed by an authoritative investigation.
发稿前，《财经》记者多次联系上述与欣佳酒店相同注册地址的企业求证，但多数未接听电话。
Before the release, Caijing contacted the above-mentioned enterprises with the same registered address as Xinjia Hotel many times, but most did not answer the phone.
一位全德宝公司人士接受《财经》记者采访时介绍，发生事故的是一栋钢结构建筑，2013年该楼建成以后，全德宝公司与华宝公司是最早一批招商进入该建筑的企业。
A Quanjude Bao company told Caijing that the accident occurred in a steel-framed building, and that Quanderbao and Huabao were among the first companies to sign up for the building after the building was built in 2013.
他介绍，原本这栋建筑总共七层，只有一楼、六楼、七楼有天花板，二楼直接到六楼，中间没有楼层，“都是空旷的”，七楼是员工宿舍。
He said that the original seven-story building, only the first floor, the sixth floor, the seventh floor has a ceiling, the second floor directly to the sixth floor, there is no middle floor, "are open," the seventh floor is staff quarters.
2017年左右，大楼开始建造酒店，二楼至六楼之间，“一层一层开始造”。
Around 2017, the building will begin construction of a hotel between the second and sixth floors, "floor by floor."
施工过程中，全德宝汽车公司办公室的玻璃曾“爆了五六块”。
During the construction process, Quande Bao Automobile Company's office glass "exploded five or six dollars."
“每一层都要加钢筋水泥的话，那样就会太重了。
"If you put some concrete on each floor, it would be too heavy.
”上述人士表示， 受楼上酒店装修影响，2017年底，全德宝公司从该建筑搬走。
The company moved out of the building at the end of 2017, said the person.
全德宝公司搬走之后，一部分改成了欣佳酒店大堂，另一部分空间入驻好车汇公司等其他企业。
After the removal of Quande Bao Company, part of the hotel changed to Xinjia hotel lobby, another part of the space into good transfer companies and other enterprises.
3月7日，这位人士得知酒店坍塌后并不感到意外，只不过，“搬走时没想到会这么严重。
The man was not surprised to learn of the hotel's collapse on March 7, but said, "I didn't expect it to be so serious when we moved."
”针对欣佳酒店是否为危楼、是否因装修改造导致楼体坍塌等说法，一位泉港市住建局工作人员7日晚向《财经》记者表示，暂时不清楚倒塌的原因。
A spokesman for the URA told Caijing on Tuesday night that it was unclear whether the hotel was a dangerous building and whether it had collapsed as a result of renovation.
他表示，住建局领导正在现场，“主要是救援，帮忙调动大型机械。
He said the URA's leadership was at the scene, "mainly to help mobilize large-scale machinery.
”事发后，《财经》记者多次拨打欣佳酒店经营者杨金锵的电话，但一直无人接听。
After the incident, Caijing reporter called Yang Jinqiang, the operator of Xinjia Hotel, several times, but no one answered.
工商资料显示，欣佳酒店的企业地址近日发生了变更，由福建省泉州市鲤城区常泰街道上村社区南环路1688号6楼”变更为“福建省泉州市鲤城区常泰街道上村社区南环路1688号地上一层大厅、四至六层”。
The business information shows that the business address of Xinjia Hotel has been changed recently from 1688 South Ring Road, Changtai Street, Shangcun Community, Yicheng District, Quanzhou City, Fujian Province, to "Ground Floor Hall, 4-6 floors, 1688 South Village Road, Changtai Street, Yicheng District, Quanzhou City, Fujian Province."
尽管欣佳酒店成立时间不久，但至今已被当地有关部门两次行政处罚。
Although Xinjia Hotel was established not long ago, it has been administratively imposed twice by local authorities.
两次违法行为类型均为：“未按规定办理住宿登记”。
The two types of violations are: "not registered in accordance with the provisions of the registration."
第一次处罚日期是2018年11月16日，第二次处罚日期是2019年12月4日，两次均责令酒店立即整改，并分别对酒店处以警告并处罚款3000元。
The first penalty was imposed on 16 November 2018 and the second on 4 December 2019, both of which ordered the hotel to make immediate corrections and imposed a warning and a fine of $3,000.
据泉州市卫健委3月7日通报，截至3月6日24时，该市累计报告新冠肺炎确诊病例47例，累计追踪到密切接触者1725人，其中解除医学观察1706人、转为疑似或确诊病例10人、尚在医学隔离观察9人。
As of 2400 hours on March 6, a total of 47 confirmed cases of New Crown Pneumonia had been reported in the city, with 1,725 people in close contact, including 1,706 from medical observation, 10 from suspected or confirmed cases and 9 from medical isolation.
其中发生酒店坍塌事故的鲤城区确诊1例。
One case was diagnosed in Lei City where the hotel collapsed.
更多现场图片：感谢现场受访者提供视频素材和图片▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
For more information about the outbreak, please click here. & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Yellow Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article by Caijing magazine.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
航拍泉州疫情隔离酒店坍塌现场：40余人生还，知情人披露前情后果。
Aerial shooting Quanzhou epidemic isolation hotel collapse site: more than 40 people still alive, the insider disclosed the consequences of the situation.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "航拍泉州疫情隔离酒店坍塌现场：40余人生还，知情人披露前情后果";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Aerial photo of Quanzhou's quarantine hotel collapse: More than 40 people survived, and information about its consequences & quot;;;
var msg_desc = "疫情发生后，泉州欣佳酒店被改造为医学观察点，用以隔离观察密切接触者，事发时被困人数约70人。
var msg _ desc = & quot; after the outbreak, Quanzhou Xinjia was converted into a medical observation point to isolate close contacts, with about 70 people trapped at the time of the incident.
知情人称，酒店所在建筑曾进行大规模改造";。
; People familiar with the matter say that the hotel building underwent extensive renovations;;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
