行业观察 | 湖北农民复工，农产品出湖北，究竟靠什么。
Industry observation & # 124; Hubei farmers resume work, produce out of Hubei, on what.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
湖北疫区农产品出省通道恢复，一条“助农抗疫”数字供应链浮出水面。
In Hubei epidemic area, a digital supply chain of agricultural products emerged after the recovery of agricultural products from Hubei epidemic area.
阿里巴巴正在大力投资数字农业“新基建”，并在疫情期间将这种即插即用的数字化能力向全社会开放，帮助各地抗疫和复工莫云 | 文3月2日，湖北省秭归县的40吨脐橙，在疫情发生后，首次运出湖北，发往全国。
Alibaba is investing heavily in a "new infrastructure" for digital agriculture and is opening up this plug-and-play digital capability to society during the epidemic to help fight epidemics and resume work.
这次脐橙的命运得以逆转，靠的是以数字化技术打造的新基础设施。
This time the fate of the umbilical orange has been reversed, thanks to a new infrastructure built using digital technology.
“疫情刚爆发的时候，北京、山东的农产品批发市场都叫停了湖北的农产品进入市场。
"When the outbreak of the outbreak, Beijing, Shandong's wholesale agricultural products markets have stopped Hubei agricultural products from entering the market.
秭归脐橙正是丰收的时候，却卖不出去。
The umbilical orange in Zigui was the harvest time, but could not be sold.
”秭归县农业农村局局长兰华锋接受《财经》记者采访时说。
"Zigui county agriculture and rural director Lanhuafeng told" Caijing "reporter said.
叫停的主要原因，是对新冠病毒的恐惧和防疫。
The main reason for the halt was fear of the new crown virus and vaccination.
“实际上，病毒的存活需要宿主，植物和人完全不同，植物里没有病毒的宿主，病毒是不会在植物上存活的。
"Virus survival actually requires a host, plants and humans are completely different, plants do not have virus hosts, viruses do not survive on plants.
”中国工程院副院长、“柑橘院士”邓秀新对《财经》记者解释。
Deng Xiuxin, vice-dean of the Chinese Academy of Engineering and a citrus academician, explained to Caijing.
除了市场对湖北农产品的犹疑，采摘、加工、运输、销售的各个环节的人手短缺、物流不畅，也是限制秭归脐橙外销的客观因素。
In addition to the market hesitancy over Hubei agricultural products, shortages of personnel and poor logistics in the various stages of picking, processing, transportation and marketing are also objective factors limiting the export of Zigui umbilical oranges.
受疫情影响，秭归全县至少有17万吨成熟的脐橙无法采摘和销售。
Affected by the outbreak, at least 170,000 tons of ripe umbilical oranges in Zigui county cannot be picked and sold.
秭归县紧急向全国的水果经销商、电商企业发出求助函，希望它们能让这批脐橙免于滞销的结局。
Zigui county sent urgent letters of help to fruit dealers and electrical enterprises throughout the country in the hope that they would save the umbilical orange from unsaleable results.
很快，阿里巴巴伸出援手，和秭归县联手打造出一条特殊时期的数字供应链，解决了燃眉之急。
Soon, Alibaba reached out and worked with Zigui county to create a special period of digital supply chains, which addressed the most pressing needs.
目前，首批通过数字供应链运出的秭归脐橙已经上架淘宝和盒马鲜生等销售平台。
Currently, the first umbilical orange from Zigui, which was shipped through the digital supply chain, has been put on shelves and on sales platforms such as Taobao and Ma Xiansheng.
成熟的秭归脐橙通过阿里巴巴数字农业供应链走向全国据了解，秭归的求助信息，是疫情发生以来阿里巴巴收到的众多滞销信息之一。
The mature umbilical orange of Zigui moves through the Alibaba digital agricultural supply chain to the country. It is understood that Zigui's help information is one of the many tardy sales messages that Alibaba has received since the outbreak of the epidemic.
为了帮助各地及时销售，阿里巴巴在全国20个省份开通“爱心助农专线”。
In order to help local timely sales, Alibaba in the country's 20 provinces opened the "love line to help farmers."
截至3月5日，该专线已售出9万吨滞销农产品。
As of March 5, the line had sold 90,000 tons of unsold agricultural products.
在疫情期间帮农民对接产销是一个短期目标，而从长期来看，将农业技术与阿里数字技术合力，提高农业的数字化水平，才能帮助“三农”利用互联网和数字技术基础能力去提升自身的抗压性和竞争优势。
It is a short-term goal to help farmers connect production and marketing during the epidemic, and in the long run, combining agricultural technology with Ali's digital technology to raise the level of digitalization in agriculture will help agriculture, farmers and farmers to use the Internet and digital technology to enhance their resistance and competitive advantage.
突如其来的疫情之下，传统的农产品线下销售模式暴露出了其局限性和脆弱性。
Under the sudden epidemic situation, the traditional marketing mode of agricultural products under the line has exposed its limitations and vulnerability.
秭归脐橙最终“获救”，靠的是阿里用数字化技术所打造的供应链。
Zigui's umbilical orange was finally "rescued," thanks to the supply chain created by Ali using digital technology.
从田间地头的采摘，一直到送上全国各地居民的餐桌，这套看不见的基础设施都在发挥作用。
This invisible infrastructure works, from picking fields to serving tables for residents all over the country.
果农李发山的脐橙已经通过阿里巴巴卖出三分之一近年来，技术的进步推动着经济发展模式的转型，旧有的基础设施已经无法完全满足数字化经济的新需求。
Fruit grower Li Fat Shan's umbilical orange has been sold through Alibaba for a third of recent years, technological progress is driving the transformation of the economic development model, and old infrastructure is no longer able to fully meet the new needs of the digital economy.
秭归脐橙的故事表明，以5G网络、云计算、人工智能为代表的新基础设施建设已经刻不容缓。
The story of Zigui's umbilical orange shows that the construction of a new infrastructure, represented by 5G networks, cloud computing and artificial intelligence, has become imperative.
农产品市场谈“湖北”色变1月23日上午10点，武汉实行“封城”。
On the Agricultural Product Market "Hubei" color change January 23 10: 00 a.m., Wuhan practice "closed the city."
这一举措让全国民众瞬间意识到新冠疫情的严重性，浙江、广东、湖南启动重大突发公共卫生事件一级响应。
The move created an instant national awareness of the severity of the outbreak, with Zhejiang, Guangdong and Hunan initiating major public health emergency first-level responses.
各地均采取了严格的防疫措施，受到限制的不仅是湖北人，还有湖北的农产品。
Strict anti-epidemic measures have been taken all over the country, restricting not only Hubei people but also their agricultural products.
根据兰华锋提供给《财经》记者的一份文件显示，1月23日，山东的临沂嘉兴水果市场向各经营部发出通知：为加强新冠病毒防控，即日起，禁止湖北水果物流车辆进入临沂嘉兴水果市场。
On January 23, the Linyi Jiaxing fruit market in Shandong Province notified operators that Hubei fruit logistics vehicles would be banned from entering the Linyi Jiaxing fruit market in order to strengthen control of the new crown virus, according to a document provided by Lanhua Feng to Caijing News.
第二天1月24日，据《新京报》报道，全国最大的农产品集散地北京新发地市场，已经没有来自武汉的蔬菜和水果，并暂停湖北农产品进入新发地市场。
The next day, the Beijing News reported on January 24 that the Xinfa market in Beijing, the country's largest agricultural distribution centre, had no vegetables and fruits from Wuhan and suspended Hubei agricultural products from entering the new market.
“我们看到这些消息很担心，”兰华锋说，“这样的文件起了一些不好的作用，很多市场虽然没有明文规定，但实际上开始抵制湖北的农产品。
"We are very worried about the news," said Lanhuafeng. "Such documents have played a negative role, and many markets, though not explicitly stipulated, have actually started to boycott Hubei's produce.
”秭归县县长杨勇亦称，“我们的橙子口感很好，但受疫情影响，消费者会有担忧。
"Our oranges taste good," said the county chief, Zigui. "But consumers are worried about the outbreak.
”被称为“中国脐橙之乡”的湖北秭归也不能幸免。
Zigui, also known as the "township of Chinese umbilical oranges," was not spared.
秭归县地处湖北省西部，位于长江西陵峡畔三峡大坝库首，是著名的中国脐橙之乡，现已形成春有伦晚脐橙、夏有夏橙、秋有早红脐橙、冬有纽荷尔脐橙，一年四季有鲜橙供应的生产格局。
Located in the western part of Hubei Province, located at the head of the Three Gorges Dam reservoir on the western side of the Yangtze River, Zigui county is home to the well-known Chinese umbilical orange community.
据秭归县农业农村局统计，2月初，全县在树上已充分成熟的纽荷尔脐橙、桃叶橙、椪柑有4.85万吨，此外还有2月即将上市的柑橘有2.5万吨，4月底至5月中下旬即将上市的伦晚脐橙7万吨、夏橙3万吨。
In early February, the county had 48,500 tons of umbilical cord oranges, peach-leaf oranges and highly mature penguins in Zigui county, in addition to 25,000 tons of citrus, which will be on sale in February, and 70,000 tons of umbilical orange and 30,000 tons of summer orange, which will be available in late April and late May.
2月初，秭归县在树上已充分成熟的各类柑橘有4.85万吨。
In early February, there were 48,500 tons of various citrus species in Zigui county, which were fully mature in trees.
脐橙的销路受阻，“柑橘院士”邓秀新的手机被打爆了。
The market for umbilical oranges was blocked and Dunxiu, a citrus academician, had his new cell phone blown out.
在秭归，许多果农都有邓秀新的手机号码，果子不甜，果子滞销，一个电话就找“邓院士”。
In Zigui, many fruit farmers have Deng Xiuxin new mobile phone numbers, fruit is not sweet, fruit unsaleable, a call to "Deng Academician."
“水果不长腿，不会传染人。
Fruit has short legs and is not contagious.
”邓秀新赶忙“辟谣”：“通过科学防疫，严格品控，湖北出来的水果是安全的。
"Deng Xiuxin hastened to" deny rumors ":" Through scientific epidemic prevention, strict quality control, Hubei fruit is safe.
”他说，水果和蔬菜是不可能与人传染的，暂停物流，只是担心通过运输水果的人携带病毒。
Fruits and vegetables can't be transmitted to humans, he said, suspending logistics for fear that people transporting fruit might carry the virus.
邓秀新对秭归有特殊的感情。
Dengxiuxin has special feelings for Zigui.
自上世纪80年代开始，他和团队一直扎根秭归，帮助农户解决技术难题，协助政府对接产业资源，四处奔走“推销”。
Since the 1980s, he and his team have taken root in Zigui, helping farmers with technical problems and the Government in docking industrial resources and moving around.
他从国外引进伦晚柑橘品种种在当地，又引来贷款为当地建立最先进的分选中心，带领秭归从柑橘种植之乡走向柑橘文化旅游之乡。
He brought in late-Lwin citrus varieties from abroad, which in turn led to loans to establish state-of-the-art sorting centres for the local population, and led Zigui from citrus to citrus cultural tourism.
20年前，秭归移民将脐橙移栽到新的家园接到农户的求助后，邓秀新和秭归县决定向阿里巴巴反馈。
20 years ago, when Zigui immigrants relocated umbilical oranges to their new homes and received assistance from farmers, Deng Xiuxin and Zigui counties decided to report back to Alibaba.
2月20日，秭归县农业农村局致函阿里巴巴，希望提供采购和销售支持。
On 20 February, the Bureau of Agriculture and Rural Affairs of Zigui county wrote to Alibaba in the hope of providing procurement and sales support.
一个多星期之后，时机逐渐成熟。
More than a week later, the time is ripe.
2月29日，湖北省首次发布新冠肺炎疫情风险等级评估报告，秭归被列为11个低风险县（市、区）之一。
On 29 February, Hubei Province issued its first assessment report on the risk level of new crown pneumonia, and Zigui was listed as one of the 11 low-risk counties (cities and districts).
兰华锋松了口气：“阿里巴巴能帮我们销售脐橙，不仅是能解决销售问题，更重要的是在疫情下，打消消费者对湖北水果的心理顾虑。
Lanhuafeng breathed relief: "Alibaba can help us sell umbilical orange, not only to solve sales problems, but more importantly, under the epidemic, to eliminate consumer psychological concerns about Hubei fruit.
阿里巴巴帮我们做了背书——既然能销售，就是放心农产品。
Alibaba helps us to make endorsements - since it can be sold, it is assured of agricultural products.
”数字供应链从田间地头开始当前疫情下，要把湖北农产品运出湖北、销往全国，一方面要打消市场的疑虑，另一方面，需要解决采摘、加工、运输、销售的各个环节的难题。
"Under the current epidemic situation in the field, it is necessary to remove agricultural products from Hubei Province and sell them to the whole country.
2月初，秭归县发出公开求助函，“诚挚邀请全国水果经销商来秭归采购、销售秭归脐橙，为湖北的疫病防控、秭归柑农增收献出一份力量”，但是此时此刻，批发商并不愿意冒险进入湖北。
In early February, Zigui county issued a letter of appeal to the public, inviting fruit dealers throughout the country to come to Zigui to procure and sell umbilical oranges, thus contributing to the prevention and control of diseases in Hubei and to the increase in the income of Zigui farmers.
传统批发商需要进入产地看到货品、见面交易；目前看不到货，物流不通、品控难以落地，他们心有余而力不足。
Traditional wholesalers need to see goods and meet each other at the place of origin; they can't see the goods, they can't logistics, they can't land their goods.
秭归是阿里巴巴在全国的首个数字农业基地。
Zigui is Alibaba's first digital agricultural base in the country.
从2018年起，秭归逐步建立起一条数字供应链，在生产、品控、运输、销售各个环节通过数字化技术提高效率；但由于疫情的影响，这条供应链也一度中断。
From 2018 onwards, Zigui gradually set up a digital supply chain to improve efficiency through digital technology at all stages of production, quality control, transport and sales; however, this supply chain was also disrupted for a time as a result of the epidemic.
在接到秭归县的求助后，阿里巴巴决定紧急重建数字供应链。
After receiving help from Zigui county, Alibaba decided to urgently rebuild the digital supply chain.
2018年，阿里巴巴在湖北秭归建立首个数字农业基地。
In 2018, Alibaba established its first digital agricultural base in Zigui, Hubei.
秭归脐橙的外销，重点不仅在最终的“销”，田间地头的采摘，就极大程度地考验当地对于防疫和复工的协调能力。
The export of Zigui umbilical orange, not only in the final "sales" of the field picking, will greatly test the local ability to epidemic prevention and resume work coordination.
“农民不敢出村。
"The peasants dare not go out.
当地政府也不敢让人员大规模聚集，很多村还处于封村的状态。
The local government is also afraid to let people gather in large numbers, many villages are still closed to the village.
”阿里巴巴数字农业事业部高级运营专家王巍对《财经》记者说，“阿里巴巴的数字农业供应链，能把销售端的订单提前汇总起来，通过这个销售计划，倒推生产端的采摘，计算出需要多少人员，然后和秭归县政府联动起来，组织他们返回果园。
"Alibaba's digital agricultural supply chain allows sales orders to be aggregated ahead of time," Wang Wei, a senior operations specialist at Alibaba's Department of Digital Agriculture, told Caijing.
”在采摘时也不放松防疫措施，每片果园严格遵循不超过15人的规定。
Nor does it relax preventive measures when picking, each orchard strictly observing a regulation of no more than 15 people.
兰华锋说：“我们一手抓防疫，一手抓生产。
"We handled epidemic prevention with one hand and production with the other," said Lan Hua Feng.
实行分区采摘，果农必须戴口罩，每天测两次体温。
The fruit grower must wear a mask and have his temperature taken twice a day.
”采摘之后，脐橙需要被运往当地的加工厂进行拣选和包装，根据品质的差异，分别在盒马鲜生、电商平台和湖北本地销售。
After being picked, the oranges are transported to local processing plants for selection and packaging and sold locally in boxes of fresh horses, electric platforms and Hubei, depending on quality.
在这个环节，同样需要分拣和打包的工人。
At this stage, workers also need to be sorted and packed.
为了招揽足够的人手，阿里巴巴以高价聘请当地村民复工。
To recruit enough people, Alibaba hired local villagers at high prices to return to work.
对于品控问题，钉钉上线“云品控”，从农户采摘到进入加工厂全程跟拍，监控农户防疫防护措施，监控采摘过程的规范，监控橙子的果径、光滑度，并现场云评测酸甜度。
For quality control problems, nail on the line "Cloud products control," from the farmer picking to entering the processing plant follow-up, monitoring farmers epidemic prevention measures, monitoring the norms of the picking process, monitoring orange fruit diameter, smooth, and field cloud measurement of acid sweetness.
除云品控之外，随机抽检的脐橙，还被快递至阿里数字农业事业部品控中心，由阿里巴巴和第三方专业品控机构进行测定。
In addition to cloud control, random sampling of the umbilical orange, also express to Ali Digital Agricultural Enterprise Quality Control Center, by Alibaba and third-party professional quality control agencies.
在物流运输方面，杨勇称，“受疫情影响，很多需要在荆州中转的快递公司只是跃跃欲试，路没有完全走通。
In logistics transportation, Yang said, "affected by the epidemic, many need to transit in Jingzhou express companies just want to try, the road is not fully open.
”为此，阿里巴巴旗下的菜鸟联合物流伙伴，为秭归专门打造了一条出省绿色通道。
For this reason, Alibaba's joint logistics partners for Zigui specially created a provincial green channel.
在特殊时期，物流成本上涨明显，菜鸟与其体系内的中通、申通、圆通开启公益联动机制，在保证司机收益的前提下，尽量降低物流成本。
In special period, the logistics cost rises obviously, the rookie and its system in the middle, Shentong, roundabout open the public welfare linkage mechanism, in the premise of ensuring the driver's income, as far as possible to reduce logistics costs.
“从3月3日开始，秭归脐橙已经往全国发出八万斤，武汉的盒马鲜生也已经送货了。
"Since March 3, Zigui has sent 80,000 kg of umbilical cord oranges to the country, and Wuhan boxes of Ma Xiansheng have been delivered.
”王巍说，这批水果的销售将持续至5月。
Sales of the fruit will last until May, Mr. Wang said.
信息化手段促农产品线上销售“数字化应用到农业领域，主要作用之一是让信息对称。
Information-based means to promote online sales of agricultural products "digitally applied to the agricultural sector, one of the main functions is to make information symmetric.
”邓秀新说，以前农产品在山沟沟里，农民不知道谁想要，农产品都是运到大城市的批发地，给到零售商，再到商店，经过几道手，才到消费者。
Previously, farmers didn't know who wanted farm produce in the gutters. It was shipped to wholesale locations in big cities, to retailers, to shops and a few hands before reaching customers, Mr. Deng said.
现在电商平台架起了生产者和消费者之间的桥梁。
Now the electronic commerce platform has built the bridge between the producer and the consumer.
更直接便捷。
More direct and convenient.
他认为，“数字农业肯定是农业发展的大方向。
"Digital agriculture is definitely the direction of agricultural development," he said.
”目前，秭归已成为湖北省电商化水平最高的县域之一。
At present, Zigui has become one of the counties in Hubei Province with the highest level of commercialisation.
据秭归县农业农村局数据，2018年，有1592家电商通过阿里销售秭归脐橙，秭归脐橙单品销售问鼎全国第一。
According to data from the Agricultural and Rural Bureau of Zigui county, in 2018, 1,592 electrical vendors sold Zigui umbilical oranges through Ali, and Zigui was the country's top seller of umbilical orange singles.
自2018年阿里巴巴启动“亩产一千美金计划”、在秭归落地第一个数字农业基地之后，2019年又设立阿里农业办公室，统筹由淘宝、天猫、支付宝、盒马、菜鸟等20多个业务构成的数字助农网络。
Since 2018, when Alibaba launched the "1,000-dollar per mu production plan" and the first digital agricultural base in Zigui, the Ali Agricultural Office has been established in 2019 to coordinate a digital farmers' network of more than 20 businesses, including Taobao, cats, paypal, boxed horses and rookies.
这一数字农业体系在此次疫情下发挥了特殊的作用。
This digital farming system played a special role in the epidemic.
2月6日，阿里巴巴发布“爱心助农计划”，设立10亿“爱心助农基金”，聚合数字经济体力量，为全国滞销农产品紧急打造“爱心助农专线”，线上线下直供全国市场。
On February 6, Alibaba launched the "Loving Farming Support Program," setting up a billion "Loving Rural Support Fund" to consolidate the strength of the digital economy and urgently create a "love line" for unmarketable agricultural products across the country.
2月18日下午，国务院联防联控机制召开新闻发布会，介绍“菜篮子”稳产保供工作情况。
February 18 afternoon, the State Council Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism held a press conference to introduce the "vegetable basket" stable production guarantee work.
农业农村部市场与信息化司副司长宋丹阳表示，充分运用信息化手段，促进农产品线上销售是对接产销的四大重点举措之一。
Song Danyang, deputy director of the marketing and informatization department of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Areas, said that fully using information technology to promote online sales of agricultural products is one of the four key measures.
在阿里巴巴的数字农业基地，农民用手机“种菜”。
At Alibaba's digital farming base, farmers use mobile phones to "grow vegetables."
在疫情期间帮农民对接产销是一个短期目标，而从长期来看，将农业技术与阿里数字技术合力，提高农业的数字化水平，才能帮助“三农”利用互联网和数字技术基础能力去提升自身的抗压性和竞争优势。
It is a short-term goal to help farmers connect production and marketing during the epidemic, and in the long run, combining agricultural technology with Ali's digital technology to raise the level of digitalization in agriculture will help agriculture, farmers and farmers to use the Internet and digital technology to enhance their resistance and competitive advantage.
目前，农业在中国数字经济发展中仍处于落后位置。
At present, agriculture still lags behind in the development of China's digital economy.
突如其来的疫情，或许让越来越多的农业从业者意识到数字基础设施在产业链中无法替代的功能和优势。
The sudden outbreak may have made more and more agricultural practitioners aware of the irreplaceable functions and advantages of digital infrastructure in the industrial chain.
疫情发生后，各地自发涌现上万个蔬菜大棚“直播间”， 2月15日史上规模最大“村播日”，1万名农民主播集体开播卖菜。
Since the outbreak, tens of thousands of vegetable sheds have sprung up all over the country. On February 15, the largest single day in history, 10,000 farmers broadcast and sold vegetables in groups.
在数字农业时代，数据成为新农资，手机成为新农具，直播成为新农活。
In the age of digital agriculture, data become new agricultural investment, mobile phones become new agricultural tools, live broadcast has become a new farm work.
而像钉钉这类智能移动办公平台，也为农民向“爱心助农热线”反馈农产品滞销信息提供了一个高效的渠道。
And smart mobile office platforms such as nails also provide an efficient channel for farmers to provide feedback to the "Love Helpline" on unmarketable agricultural products.
一些过去只走线下的农产品，紧急对接上了淘宝。
Some used to only go offline agricultural products, emergency on the Taobao connected.
数字乡村已成为国家战略。
The digital village has become a national strategy.
农业农村部、中央网络安全和信息化委员会办公室1月20日印发的《数字农业农村发展规划（2019-2025年）》指出，要发挥互联网企业的核心带动作用，用数字化引领驱动农业农村现代化。
The Digital Agriculture Rural Development Plan (2019-2025), issued on 20 January by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs and the Office of the Central Committee for Cybersecurity and Informatization, states that the core role of Internet businesses is to play a leading role in digitally driving the modernization of rural agriculture.
其中一个预期目标是，农业数字经济占农业增加值比重从2018年的7.3%增长到2025年的15%，年均增速得达到10.8%。
One of the expected objectives is to increase the share of the agricultural digital economy in agricultural value added from 7.3 per cent in 2018 to 15 per cent in 2025, with an average annual growth rate of 10.8 per cent.
走农业走向数字化的过程中，对于已经拥有庞大数字技术基础能力的科技企业而言，大有可为。
In the process of digitalization, agriculture has a great potential for technology enterprises that already have a large digital technology base.
阿里巴巴集团董事局主席兼首席执行官张勇表示，疫情之后，新一代数字基础设施建设将成为新的发展方向。
Zhang Yong, chairman and chief executive of Alibaba Group, said the new generation of digital infrastructure would become a new direction after the outbreak.
数字基础设施建设就是新基建，正在成为新的投资和发展方向。
Digital infrastructure is the new infrastructure, which is becoming a new direction of investment and development.
“数字化的巨大价值已经深入人心，阿里巴巴不但要在危难中承担更多社会责任，更要为下一步经济发展创造机会。
"The enormous value of digitalization has taken root, and Alibaba not only has to bear more social responsibility in the disaster, but also to create opportunities for further economic development.
”。
"
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
行业观察 | 湖北农民复工，农产品出湖北，究竟靠什么。
Industry observation & # 124; Hubei farmers resume work, produce out of Hubei, on what.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "行业观察 | 湖北农民复工，农产品出湖北，究竟靠什么";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Industry & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "湖北疫区农产品出省通道恢复，一条“助农抗疫”数字供应链浮出水面。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; A digital supply chain for agricultural products from Hubei province has surfaced as a result.
阿里巴巴正在大力投资数字农业“新基建”，并在";。
Alibaba is investing heavily in a "new infrastructure" for digital agriculture, and at & quot;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
