疫情如何迅速搅动了全世界？｜金焱看美国。
How quickly did the epidemic stir the world? Yan, look at the United States.
金焱。
Yan, Jin.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
文｜《财经》特派记者金焱 发自华盛顿编辑｜苏琦一个月前的世界是另一个样子。
/ [^ # 39 ^ # 108 ^ # 108 ^ # 108 ^ # 108 ^ # 108 ^ # 108] / n. The world was different one month ago.
2月9日的美国和英语世界，大多数人不知道什么叫“冠状肺炎”——这是有据可查的。
In the United States and the English-speaking world on February 9, most people do not know what "coronary pneumonia" is - it is well documented.
花旗集团前全球外汇主管杰弗瑞·杨（Jeffrey Young）离开花旗后，成了深数宏观（DeepMacro）的联合创始人兼CEO。
Jeffrey Young, Citigroup's former global head of foreign exchange, left Citigroup to become co-founder and CEO of Deep Macro.
在疫情期间他们做了一件事，就是对网站进行实时追踪，通过大数据来判断疫情对经济的影响。
One thing they did during the epidemic was to track the site in real time, using big data to gauge the impact of the epidemic on the economy.
比如他们选中了维基百科网站。
For example, they chose Wikipedia.
“冠状肺炎”这么学术的东西不上维基百科基本查不太明白，所以“冠状肺炎”中文简体维基百科的访问量很高，也很稳定，超过了英文版本的访问量。
Because something as academic as Coronary Pneumonia is not well understood by Wikipedia, the simplified Chinese Wikipedia of Coronary Pneumonia has a high and steady flow of visitors, surpassing the English version.
杰弗瑞·杨那时这样对我解释，“这表明新型冠状病毒可能目前不会成为影响全球市场的主要因素。
"This suggests that the new coronavirus may not be a major factor affecting the global market," Jeffrey Young explained to me at the time.
” 他的话基本上是说，中国是全球疫情的焦点。
Essentially, he said, China is the focus of the global epidemic.
3月9日，全球疫情的焦点是中国以外的国家和地区。
On March 9, the global epidemic focused on countries and regions other than China.
就像一个月前美国人纷纷问候我一样，我现在开始问候我在意大利和韩国的朋友，同时接受国内各方人士的问候——美国的新冠确诊病例在3月9日超过500例，确诊病例超过了30个州。
Just as Americans greeted me a month ago, I now greet my friends in Italy and South Korea, as well as greetings from people around the country - more than 500 confirmed cases in the United States on March 9, and more than 30 confirmed cases.
我的同事高胜科直接说，除了在武汉的外，我是单位冲在一线的第四位女侠。
My colleague Gao Shengke said directly, in addition to Wuhan, I was the unit in the first line of the fourth woman.
一个月前，美国股市标普500指数触及纪录高位。
A month ago, the S & P 500 hit a record high.
一个月后，新冠疫情在海外进入加速蔓延期，石油市场因疫情持续而需求锐减，原油价格大下跌20%以上，加之产油国间谈判未果，油价雪崩，中东股市暴跌，美国股指期货跌近5%。
A month later, the new cap epidemic accelerated overseas, oil demand plummeted as the epidemic continued, crude-oil prices plummeted by more than 20%, and oil-producing countries failed to negotiate an avalanche in oil prices, Middle East stock markets plummeted, and US stock-market futures fell nearly 5%.
一个月前，在海上隔离的“钻石公主”号邮轮的疫情日益恶化。
A month ago, the cruise ship The Diamond Princess, which was isolated at sea, suffered a worsening of the epidemic.
一个月后，同属公主邮轮公司旗下的“至尊公主号”邮轮因船上几十人感染新冠肺炎而滞留在美国加利福尼亚州外海，牵动全球的目光。
A month later, the Princess Royalty, a cruise ship owned by Princess Rosebud, caught the world's attention as dozens of people on board contracted pneumonia in California.
美国国务院3月9日直接在其网站上警告美国公民不要乘坐邮轮旅行。
The US State Department warned US citizens not to travel by cruise on its website on March 9.
一个月前，中国云南大理“截胡”一批发往重庆的口罩刷屏。
A month ago, Dali "Jujube", a wholesale mask painting to Chongqing, Yunnan, China.
一个月后，因执行德国内政部“严谨出口医用口罩和医用手套等医疗防护物资”的禁令，一辆在德境内的瑞士企业车辆被拦截，车内24万只准备运往瑞士的口罩也被悉数拦下。
A month later, a Swiss company vehicle in Germany was stopped, along with 240,000 face masks destined for Switzerland, following a ban by the German interior ministry on the strict export of medical protective materials such as masks and gloves.
于是有了新闻：德国“截胡”瑞士24万只口罩，瑞士方面表示“严正抗议”。
So there was news: Germany "cut Hu" Switzerland 240,000 masks, the Swiss side expressed "serious protest."
一个月前的2月9日，武汉封城已二周多，忙着进行全民健康普查，据说户数排查的百分比达到98.6%，人数排查的百分比达到了99%。
On February 9, Wuhan, more than two weeks ago, was busy conducting a national health survey, with 98.6 per cent of households said to have been counted and 99 per cent screened.
一个月后，难逃同样的命运，意大利出台了更为严厉防疫措施，宣布意大利北部大部分地区被封城，此举会影响约1600万人的生活和出行。
A month later, Italy was in the grip of a similar fate, with a tougher cordon sanitaire declaring much of northern Italy off limits, affecting the lives and travel of some 16 million people.
意大利的封城重演了武汉当初经历的混乱，在封城令生效前许多人仓促离开北部地区。
Italy's closure repeated the mayhem that Wuhan experienced, with many leaving the north in haste before the blockade came into effect.
更让我震惊的是3月9日，我一个多月前采访过的、美国国立卫生研究院（NIH）下的国家过敏和传染病研究所（NIAID）所长安东尼·S·福西（Anthony S. Fauci）公开说，为遏制疫情扩散，美国部分地区可能采取封城措施。
Even more shocking to me was Anthony S. Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) under the National Institutes of Health (NIH), whom I interviewed more than a month ago, publicly said that some parts of the US might adopt containment measures to stem the spread of the epidemic.
我不知道用福西来比钟南山恰不恰当，但福西在传染病方面是世界上举足轻重的角色。
I don't know how wrong it is to use Fossil over Zhong Nan Shan, but Fossi is a major player in the world in infectious diseases.
他给我的印象是，用辞非常谨慎。
He gave me the impression that he was using his words very carefully.
如果他提到封城，相信其本身要比字面意义更沉重。
If he mentions closure, it is believed to be heavier in itself than the literal meaning.
但无论是美国还是意大利，谁又知道中国限制措施的初见成效是否会在其他地方重演？从冰山一角到冰山显形一个月前，世界卫生组织（WHO）总干事谭德赛2月9日警告说，中国以外的新冠肺炎疫情传播可能是“冰山一角”。
But who in the US or Italy knows if the first effects of China's restrictions will be repeated elsewhere? From the tip of the iceberg to the iceberg a month ago, World Health Organization Director General Theresa Tanner warned on February 9 that the spread of pneumonia outside China could be the "tip of the iceberg."
冰山在3月6日已经基本显出轮廓。
Icebergs had already outlined themselves on March 6.
新冠肺炎疫情在这一天蔓延到了新的节点，全世界有超过十万人感染，全球除了南极洲以外的四大洲肆意传播。
The outbreak spread to new nodes that day, with more than 100,000 people infected worldwide and four continents except Antarctica spreading.
本来很多人认为美国是安全的，美国的死亡病例很长一段时间波澜不惊，然后情况急转直下。
Many thought the United States was safe, the death toll in the United States was uneventful for a long time, and then things fell sharply.
当病例在美国这样公共卫生体系相对健全的国家也迅速攀升扩散，不确定性加大了。
When cases are spreading rapidly in countries with relatively healthy public-health systems, such as the United States, uncertainty is growing.
直到3月9日，世卫组织依然没有宣布新冠肺炎疫情是大流行病，但病毒的传播并不等待这个冠名与否，3月8日，世卫组织收到的各国报告数据显示，全球受新冠肺炎疫情影响的国家和地区数量已达101个。
Until 9 March, WHO had still not declared the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic a pandemic, but the spread of the virus did not await the name. On 8 March, WHO received data from countries reporting that the number of countries and territories affected by the new crown pneumonia epidemic worldwide had reached 101.
新冠肺炎已成为不是大流行病的大流行病。
New crown pneumonia has become a non-pandemic.
我采访过的另一个美国医学方面的大牛人物是宾夕法尼亚大学佩雷尔曼医学院的Schaeffer医学教授和高级医学实践助理院长、宾州卓越医疗服务执行总裁杰克·恩迪（Jack Ende）。
Another American medical bull I interviewed was Jack Ende, professor of medicine and assistant dean of advanced medical practice at the University of Pennsylvania's Perelman School of Medicine.
早在几周前，他就肯定地告诉我，新冠肺炎疫情可能很快就成为大流行病，这是全球医学界要面对的一场风暴。
As early as a few weeks ago, he told me with certainty that the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia could soon become a pandemic, a storm for the global medical community.
现在回想起来，他的判断真是经得起时间的考验。
In retrospect, his judgment really stood the test of time.
他说，除了隔离之外，我们没有任何其他预防策略，比如疫苗。
'We don't have any prevention strategies other than isolation, such as vaccines, 'he said.
另外也没有及时、早期检测发现病毒的手段，我们也不了解病毒传播所需的全部知识，包括无症状期传播的可能性。
There is also no means of detecting viruses in a timely and early manner, and we do not have all the knowledge needed to spread the virus, including the possibility of asymptomatic transmission.
我发现这是现在很多美国人困惑之处，比如在中国疫情爆发后，美国直接就采取了旅行限制和检疫措施，但是还是发现了很多感染者不但没有去过中国和其他疫区国，也没有与任何所知的感染者接触，因此感染者唯一的感染来源，就是在社区中感染。
I find this to be a source of confusion for many Americans today, such as the travel restrictions and quarantine measures taken directly by the United States after the outbreak of the Chinese epidemic, but it has been found that many infected people have not been to China and other endemic countries or come into contact with anyone known to be infected.
但没人知道病毒如何进入社区，如何在人群中传播。
But no one knows how the virus got into the community and how it spread among people.
来自华盛顿州的基因测序表明，那里已经发生了社区传播，可能已经持续了数周。
Genetic sequencing from Washington State suggests that there has been community transmission, which may have lasted for weeks.
这一病毒还有强大的传播力。
The virus also has a powerful ability to spread.
瑞典默奥大学的科学家基于“钻石公主号”邮轮的发病情况，通过数学模式推演认为，在不采取任何隔离措施，以“钻石公主号”邮轮的人群密集度来看，一个月的自由传播率为79%；哥伦比亚大学的科学家联合国内几家机构进行的一项研究显示，武汉86%的隐形传播者造成三分之二的病毒传播。
Scientists at the University of Mo o in Sweden have deduced from a mathematical model that, without any quarantine measures, the free circulation rate for a month is 79 percent in terms of the density of the Princess Diamond cruise. A study by Columbia University scientists at the United Nations showed that 86 percent of stealth carriers in Wuhan caused two-thirds of the virus.
杰克·恩迪还提到，目前针对新冠病毒对人体器官系统造成损伤的具体疗法根本不存在，只能靠医生和医疗机构提供支持治疗来应对；也仍然没有动物模型来测试如何治疗和检测新冠病毒，动物模型的缺乏阻碍了我们在免疫，早期发现和治疗领域迅速推进的能力。
Jack Ndi also mentioned that specific treatments for damage to the human organ system by the new crown virus simply do not exist and can only be addressed with supportive treatment by doctors and medical institutions; there are still no animal models to test how to treat and detect the new crown virus, and the lack of animal models hampers our ability to advance rapidly in the areas of immunization, early detection and treatment.
管控疫情哪家强？虽然病毒对待每一个人，每一个国家都无厚此薄比，但是它到了每个国家，又变成了每个国家独特的问题。
Although the virus treats everyone, no country has such a poor ratio, but it has reached every country and become a unique problem for every country.
比如美国的所谓“淡定”的问题——虽然美国经历过很多次流行病暴发的袭击，经验丰富，要人有人，要钱有钱，要技术有技术，但直到最近，美国联邦政府的指导方针仍然只对那些有疫区旅行史，或与去过疫区的人有过直接接触的人员做新型冠状病毒检测，即使有的病人已经出现了所有的症状(发烧、咳嗽、肺炎)也不检测。
For example, America's so-called "low-key" problem - the United States experienced many outbreaks of epidemics, experienced people, high-profile people, money, and technology - until recently, the US federal government's guidelines only tested new coronavirus for those who had a history of travel or had direct contact with people in affected areas, even if they had all the symptoms (fever, cough, pneumonia).
指导方针这几天才放宽，允许更广范围的检测，地方官员可以对重 症肺炎患者以及没有其他确定接触源的患者进行检测，而不是将所有样本送到亚特兰大进行集中检测。
The guidelines were relaxed over the next few days, allowing for a wider range of tests that local officials could test for severe pneumonia patients and patients without other identified sources of exposure, rather than sending all samples to Atlanta for centralized testing.
结果是48小时之内，州立实验室就“检测”出了新增病例。
As a result, state laboratories "detected" new cases within 48 hours.
达美国际健康服务集团首席执行官邵新立和我分享他的观察。
Shao Xinli, chief executive of Delta Health Services International, shared his observations with me.
美国这次表现让人失望，从口罩到试剂盒都出现闪失，试剂盒数量与检测方法也都出现不足与错误，一方面是疫情最早发生在中国，他们觉得很遥远，起码有三周的时间，坐壁上观，什么都没有充分准备。
America's performance was disappointing, ranging from masks to kits, to shortages and errors in the number of kits and the methods used to detect them. On the one hand, the outbreak first occurred in China and they felt very far away for at least three weeks, sitting on the wall, not fully prepared for anything.
邵新立还提醒我今年是大选年，大家忙于两党之争，轻视了问题的严重性——相当多美国人把疫情看成是一个“大号”流感，导致了今天的局面。
Shao Xinli also reminded me that this was an election year and that we were so busy fighting between the two parties that we downplayed the seriousness of the problem - that quite a lot of Americans saw the epidemic as a "massive" flu that led to the situation today.
在民间，充斥着各种有意无意地对疫情的各国管理对比。
Among the people, there is a wide variety of national regulatory comparisons of the epidemic, both intentional and unintentional.
我问在欧洲和亚洲多个行业拥有20年的国际项目管理经验的战略咨询专家Arvea Marieni这个问题。
I asked Arvea Marieni, a strategic consultant with 20 years of international project management experience in various industries in Europe and Asia.
她有一个非常好听的中文名叫安薇薇，她说，武汉无可否认是一个成功的案例，通过采取非常规的措施，包括关闭所有城市间的旅行往来和隔离措施，减缓了病毒传播的速度。
Wuhan is undeniably a success story, slowing the spread of the virus through extraordinary measures, including the closure of all inter-city travel and isolation, she said.
和中国相比，某些措施在那些国家难以实施。
Compared with China, some measures are difficult to implement in those countries.
因为在一些国家的民主体制在给定的价值观体系中，通常优先考虑个人自由优先于公共利益、作为社会共同利益的共同利益，所以在应对危机方面是否效率较低。
Because in some countries democratic institutions, within a given system of values, usually give priority to individual freedoms over the public interest, as a common good of society, they are less efficient in responding to crises.
例如，在环境治理领域，中国系统的效率越来越高。
In the area of environmental governance, for example, China's system is becoming more efficient.
它集指挥与控制，执行与惩罚于一体，此外还使用新技术来快速监控，指导和改变社会行为，并取得了显著成果。
It combines command and control, enforcement and punishment, and uses new technologies to quickly monitor, guide, and change social behavior, with remarkable results.
在西方国家，最初他们对中国着眼于疫情的管理缺乏透明度。
In the West, they initially lacked transparency about China's management of the epidemic.
不过安薇薇指出，公开交流和基于事实的评估数据是科学有效治理系统的重要组成部分。
But open communication and fact-based assessment data are important components of a scientifically effective governance system, Antwerp points out.
但是，知识和信息并不总是转化为所需的行动或政策决策。
However, knowledge and information are not always translated into the required actions or policy decisions.
气候变化就是一个很好的例子。
Climate change is a case in point.
要管理事件，需要利用政治权力和可用的技术，而不仅仅依靠一些知识和“正确的价值观”，也不能完全指望人们的行为会作出调适或改变。
Managing events requires the use of political power and available technology, not just some knowledge and "right values," and people's behaviour cannot be entirely expected to adapt or change.
所以不能从意识形态的角度来看哪个是最好的治理系统。
So the best system of governance cannot be seen from an ideological point of view.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情如何迅速搅动了全世界？｜金焱看美国。
How quickly did the epidemic stir the world? Yan, look at the United States.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "疫情如何迅速搅动了全世界？｜金焱看美国";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; How quickly did the epidemic stir the world? Yan: Look at US & quot;;
var msg_desc = "杰弗瑞·杨那时这样对我解释，“这表明新型冠状病毒可能目前不会成为影响全球市场的主要因素。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Jeffery Young explained to me at the time, "This suggests that the new coronavirus may not be a major factor affecting global markets right now.
” 他的话基本上是说，中国是全球疫情的焦点";。
Essentially, he said that China was the focus of & quot; s global epidemic.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
