追问泉州坍塌酒店：装修改造是否违规？为何成为疫情隔离点？。
Follow-up Quanzhou Collapse Hotel: whether renovation is illegal? Why has become an epidemic quarantine point?
俞琴 黄姝静。
Yu Qin Huang Jing.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
在疫情防控期间，各地酒店纷纷关门，开业不久却两次被行政处罚的泉州欣佳酒店何以能成为疫情防控的集中隔离点？该酒店自2017年就在大楼内多次进行改装，相关手续是否齐全？及时回应这些疑点，有利于缓解公众的担忧Play文|《财经》记者俞琴黄姝静编辑| 鲁伟泉州市欣佳酒店坍塌事故救援工作仍在进行中。
How can the Quanzhou Xinjia Hotel, which was closed during the epidemic prevention and control period, become a centralized quarantine point for epidemic prevention and control? The hotel has been retrofitted several times since 2017, helping to allay public concerns.
截至3月8日16时，现场已救出48人（其中10人死亡，38人送医治疗），正在搜救的还有23人。
As at 1600 hours on 8 March, 48 people had been rescued from the scene (10 killed and 38 treated) and 23 others were in search and rescue.
3月7日19时许，欣佳酒店发生楼体坍塌事故，共有71人被困（不含自救逃生的9人）。
At about 1900 hours on March 7, a total of 71 people were trapped in the collapse of the Xin Jia Hotel (not including 9 people who had escaped from the disaster).
事故发生后，国务院安委会办公室已派出由副主任付建华带队的工作组赶赴现场，指导协助地方开展救援处置工作。
After the accident, the Security Committee Office of the State Council has dispatched a team headed by deputy director Fu Jianhua to the scene to guide local rescue and disposal work.
同时，国务院安委会办公室、应急管理部要求各地和有关部门组织开展全国房屋安全风险排查，特别是对疫情隔离点、集中观察点等场所的房屋进行逐一排查；向全国应急管理部门和消防救援队伍发出紧急通知，要求强化疫情防控和复工复产期间安全监管服务，会同有关部门深入排查整治各类隐患，切实保障人民群众生命安全。
Meanwhile, the Office of the State Council's Security Committee and the Ministry of Emergency Management have asked local authorities and relevant departments to organize nationwide housing security risk checks, especially to conduct house-by-house inspections of epidemic quarantine sites and centralized observation points.
据《财经》此前报道，欣佳酒店为泉州市鲤城区选定的新冠肺炎疫情隔离点。
According to Caijing previously reported, Xinjia Hotel for the Quanzhou City Lei City selected the new crown pneumonia quarantine point.
事发后，现场一片狼藉，大楼呈“人字形”整体性坍塌，不断有围观群众称“里面还有很多人被压住”。
After the incident, the scene was a mess, the building in a "zigzag" overall collapse, the crowd continued to say that "there are still a lot of people trapped inside."
一位参与现场救援的人士向《财经》描述，现场情况“惨烈”，多具遗体被大梁压住，有些靠酒店停放的汽车，车头直接被砸掉。
A person involved in the rescue at the scene told Caijing that the scene was "tragic," with many bodies crushed by beams and some cars parked by hotels, and the front of the car directly smashed off.
目前有关部门已查明，欣佳酒店所在大楼是在重新改装作业时发生的坍塌。
Authorities have now identified the building where the Xinjia Hotel is located as a result of the collapse of the remodeling operation.
泉州市鲤城区住建局局长张翼表示，3月7日晚上7时，房主接到现场施工人员电话称，在进行作业的一楼房屋一根柱子发生变形。
At 7 p.m. March 7, the owner of the building received a phone call from construction workers saying a pillar had been deformed on the ground floor of the building where the work was being carried out, said Zhang Wing, director of the Lei Cheng residence in Quanzhou City.
三四分钟后，楼体整体坍塌。
Three or four minutes later, the building collapsed.
“该楼房坍塌是因为装修还是原来结构问题，还需进一步甄别。
"The collapse of the building is due to renovation or original structural problems, further screening is required.
”3月8日，在泉州市鲤城区欣佳酒店楼体坍塌事故发布会上，泉州市委常委、常务副市长洪自强表示，针对该事故已成立事故调查组，将实事求是查清原因，依法依规严肃追究责任人的责任，目前该楼房业主已被公安部门控制。
On March 8, Hong Zhiqiang, deputy mayor and standing committee member of the Quanzhou Municipal Committee, said the accident investigation team had been set up to find out the cause of the accident.
经《财经》记者多方了解，目前已被公安部门控制的坍塌大楼业主即为欣佳酒店经营者杨金锵。
"Caijing" reporters understand that the current public security control of the collapse of the building owner is Xinjia hotel operator Yang Jinqiang.
这个65岁的泉州人，能在当地拿下5亩土地盖一栋大楼，被与其打过交道的人士评价“很厉害”。
The 65-year-old Quanzhou, who was able to take five acres of land to build a building, was rated "very good" by people with whom he had dealings.
除了拥有欣佳酒店这栋大楼，杨金锵还经营着一家名为泉州市新星机电工贸有限公司的企业，杨在公司担任执行董事兼总经理。
In addition to the building that owns the Xinjia Hotel, Yang runs a company called Quanzhou New Star Electrical and Mechanical Industry Co. Ltd. Yang serves as executive director and general manager.
在疫情防控期间，各地酒店纷纷关门，成立不久却两次被行政处罚的欣佳酒店何以能成为新冠肺炎集中隔离点？欣佳酒店自2017年就在大楼内多次进行改装，其相关手续是否齐全，是否存在违规行为？这些外界普遍关注的谜团，或将通过事故调查组揭开。
During the period of epidemic prevention and control, how can Xin Jia Hotel, which was set up only two times but was administratively imposed, become a centralized quarantine point for new crowns of pneumonia? Whether the hotel has been retrofitted several times since 2017 and whether there have been any irregularities? The mystery will be solved through the Accident Investigation Team.
倒塌前已有征兆欣佳酒店于2018年6月开业，酒店注册时间为2018年3月28日，经营者为杨金锵，登记地址为泉州市鲤城区常泰街道上村社区南环路1688号，该楼四至六层为客房。
The hotel is registered on March 28, 2018. The operator of the hotel is Yang Jinqiang, registered at 1688 South Ring Road, Shangcun Street, Changtai Street, Lei Cheng, Quanzhou City. The fourth to sixth floors of the building are guest rooms.
根据官方3月8日的通报，坍塌的大楼建设于2013年，主体7层，每层1000平方米，楼高22米，为钢结构建筑物。
According to the official March 8 notice, the collapse of the building in 2013, the main seventh floor, 1000 square meters, 22 meters high, steel structure buildings.
2018年改造为欣佳酒店，并于当年6月开业，酒店有各类客房共计66间。
Renovated as Xinjia Hotel in 2018 and opened in June of that year, the hotel has a total of 66 rooms.
据《财经》此前报道，欣佳酒店所在大楼并非只有酒店经营这一业态，同样注册地址为泉州市鲤城区常泰街道上村社区南环路1688号的有多达十余家公司。
As previously reported by Caijing, the hotel is not only located in the hotel industry, but also registered at 1688 South Ring Road, Changtai Street, Yicheng District, Quanzhou City.
泉州好车汇汽车贸易有限公司（下称好车汇公司）、泉州全德宝汽车销售有限公司（下称全德宝公司）、泉州华宝汽车销售服务有限公司（下称华宝公司）、福建省顶鑫再生资源回收有限责任公司、鲤城区小灰餐饮店、鲤城区林进权餐饮店、鲤城区琴悦足浴中心、鲤城区沈增华便利店等注册地址均在“1688号”。
The registered addresses of Quanzhou Good Car Transfer Co., Quanzhou Quanzhou City Automobile Sales Co. Ltd. (Quanzhou City), Quanzhou City Dingxin Renewable Resources Recycling Co. Ltd., Lei Cheng Dining Restaurant, Lei Cheng Yue Foot Bath Centre, Lei Cheng Yue Foot Bath Centre and Lei Cheng Shen Zhenhua Convenience Shop are at "1688."
据介绍，今年春节前，房屋业主将一楼出租的超市收回重新改装。
According to the introduction, before the Spring Festival this year, the owner of the first floor of the supermarket to remodel.
3月7日晚上7时，房主接到现场施工人员电话称，在进行作业的一楼房屋一根柱子发生变形。
On 7 March, at 7 p.m., the owner received a telephone call from the construction staff at the site stating that a post had been deformed in the first floor of the house where the work was being carried out.
三四分钟后，楼体整体坍塌。
Three or four minutes later, the building collapsed.
3月7日，有知情人告诉《财经》记者，这种装修改造在大楼内是“常态”。
On March 7, someone familiar with the matter told Caijing that the renovation was "normal" in the building.
一位全德宝公司人士接受《财经》记者采访时介绍，2013年该楼建成以后，全德宝公司与华宝公司是最早一批招商进入该建筑的企业。
After the building was built in 2013, Quan Debao and Huabao were among the first companies to invite investment into the building, a Quande Bao company told Caijing News.
他介绍，这栋钢结构建筑共有七层，最初只有一层、六层和七层有天花板，二层直接到六层，中间没有楼层，“都是空旷的”，七楼为员工宿舍。
The steel structure, he said, consisted of seven floors, with a ceiling on the first, sixth and seventh floors, and a second floor with no floors in the middle.
全德宝公司曾入驻大楼的一层。
Quan Debao Company used to be on the ground floor of the building.
上述全德宝公司人士回忆，2018年欣佳酒店在改造过程中，他所在办公室的玻璃就在施工中被“爆了五六块”。
The Quanjude company recalls that the windows in his office were "blown out by five or six pieces" in 2018 during the renovation of Xinjia Hotel.
因担心受酒店装修的影响，全德宝公司从该建筑搬走。
Fearing the influence of the hotel renovation, Quan De Bao Company moved out of the building.
在全德宝公司搬走之后，大楼一层的一部分改成了欣佳酒店大堂，另一部分空间入驻好车汇公司等其他企业。
After the removal of Quanjude, part of the first floor of the building was converted into the lobby of Xinjia Hotel, and part of the space was occupied by other businesses such as Good Car Transfer.
3月7日，这位人士得知酒店坍塌后并不感到意外，只不过，“搬走时没想到会这么严重。
The man was not surprised to learn of the hotel's collapse on March 7, but said, "I didn't expect it to be so serious when we moved."
”针对欣佳酒店是否为危楼、是否因装修改造导致楼体坍塌等说法，一位泉港市住建局工作人员3月7日晚曾向《财经》记者表示，暂时不清楚倒塌的原因。
A spokesman for the URA told Caijing on the night of March 7 that it was unclear whether the hotel was a dangerous building or whether the building collapsed as a result of renovation work.
他表示，住建局领导正在现场，“主要是救援，帮忙调动大型机械。
He said the URA's leadership was at the scene, "mainly to help mobilize large-scale machinery.
”一位参与现场救援的人士向《财经》记者描述，倒塌的大楼前墙往后倾，后墙往前倾，呈“人字形”——这看起来不同寻常，“一定是某几个承重的地方没达到要求，才造成这种受力结果。
One person involved in the rescue described to Caijing that the front wall of the collapsed building had tilted back and the back wall was leaning forward in a "humanoid" shape - which seemed unusual.
”这位人士推测，很可能是大楼的框架结构受到了破坏，这点在后期作业中找到印证，他发现有遇难者被大梁压住，“出现的遗体被大梁压住，那证明大梁有断裂或者严重挤压，要不这样的钢质框架结构被大梁压倒比较少见。
The person speculated that the damage to the building's framework was most likely due to damage to the building's framework, which was confirmed by later work, when he discovered that the victims had been crushed by beams.
”另一方面，该人士在现场注意到，顶楼天花板是混凝土结构，厚15厘米左右。
On the other hand, the man noticed on the spot that the ceiling of the penthouse was a concrete structure, about 15 centimetres thick.
他表示，对于这栋建筑来说，如果每一层楼的天花板都这么厚，底下是受不了这么重的压力的。
For the building, he says, if the ceiling on each floor is so thick, it can't stand the stress.
装修改造是否违规？大楼坍塌之后，公众一直在追问的是：大楼自2017年改造为欣佳酒店，其在重新改装的过程中相关手续是否齐全，是否存在违规行为？一位参与现场救援的人士告诉《财经》记者，3月7日晚，他抵达事发现场时，事发建筑结构图就已经贴在泉州市消防支队指挥部的一块大白板上面，“这意味着在有关部门，至少这个设计图是有备案的，否则不可能那么快出现在指挥部。
After the collapse of the building, the public has been asking if there were any irregularities during the renovation of the building from 2017 to Xinjia Hotel.When he arrived at the scene on the night of March 7, the building had been attached to a large whiteboard at the Quanzhou Fire Detachment Command.
”鲤城区公安消防大队2019年1月22日出具的一份《建设工程竣工验收消防备案复查意见书》显示，欣佳酒店申请装修建筑面积3350m² ，装修层数为一层局部、四楼至六楼，使用性质为旅馆，经福建省奉达消防检测有限公司全数现场检查及功能测试，检测合格，但经竣工验收消防备案检查不合格。
According to a review report issued by the Lei Cheng Public Security Fire Brigade on January 22, 2019, Xinjia Hotel applies for the renovation of 3350m ², with a first floor, fourth to sixth floors. The hotel is in the nature of a hotel and passed all site inspections and functional tests by Fengda Fire Detection Co. Ltd. Fujian Province.
欣佳酒店于2019年1月15日申请复查，经资料审查和现场检查，综合评定该工程竣工验收消防复查合格。
Xinjia Hotel applied for review on January 15, 2019, after data review and on-site inspection, comprehensive evaluation of the completion of the acceptance fire review qualified.
《复查意见书》提到，工程如有扩建、改建（含室内外装修、建筑保温、用途变更），应依法向当地消防大队申请消防设计审核或者备案。
The Review Submission mentioned that any expansion or alteration of the project (including indoor and outdoor decoration, building insulation and change of use) should be submitted to the local fire brigade for fire control design audit or record in accordance with the law.
此外，有分析人士认为，坍塌的大楼为钢结构建筑物施工，属于危险性较大的分部分项工程。
In addition, some analysts believe that the collapse of the building for the construction of steel structures, a more dangerous part of the project.
所谓危险性较大的分部分项工程，是指建筑工程在施工过程中存在的、可能导致作业人员群死群伤或造成重大不良社会影响的分部分项工程，这一工程范围中包括“承重支撑体系：用于钢结构安装等满堂支撑体系。
The so-called dangerous partial projects refer to the subdivision projects which may lead to the death of a group of workers or cause a major adverse social impact in the course of construction projects.
”欣佳酒店被质疑在重装改造时未严格遵循《危险性较大的分部分项工程安全管理规定》。
Xin Jia Hotel was challenged for not strictly complying with the "Regulations on Safety Management of Dangerous Segment Projects" during the re-fitting.
该规定由住房城乡建设部在2018年发布，其中对“专项施工方案”、“现场安全管理”、“监督管理”等有明确规定。
The regulation, issued in 2018 by the Ministry of Housing, Urban and Rural Construction, contains clear provisions on "special construction projects," "on-site safety management" and "supervision and management."
就此，《财经》记者向泉州市住建局有关人士求证“欣佳酒店为钢结构建筑，其施工是否属于危险性较大的分部分项工程范围？”对方表示不予置评。
In response, Caijing asked the URA residents in Quanzhou to verify "whether the construction of the Xinjia Hotel is a steel structure and whether the works are part of a more dangerous subdivision of the project."
有相关专家对《财经》记者表示，危险性较大的分部分项工程主要是针对施工活动而言的。
Some experts told Caijing that the more dangerous sub-projects are mainly for construction activities.
该人士表示，“要具体区分，钢结构工程中承重支撑体系、起重吊装安装拆卸工程等属于危险性较大的分部分项工程。
"It is important to distinguish between load-bearing support systems and lifting and unloading works in steel structure projects, which are more dangerous parts of the project," said the person.
单纯的钢结构安装工程也属于危险性较大的分部分项工程。
The simple steel structure installation project also belongs to the dangerous part project.
”就目前披露的信息，尚无法判断欣佳酒店装修改造施工是否属于危险性较大的分部分项工程范畴，以及施工中是否存在违规行为。
"On the basis of the information disclosed so far, it is not yet possible to judge whether the renovation works at the Xinjia Hotel are part of a more dangerous part of the project and whether there are any irregularities in the construction.
是否属于违法建筑？事发后，《财经》记者曾多次拨打欣佳酒店经营者杨金锵的电话，但一直无人接听。
Whether it is illegal construction? After the incident, "Caijing" reporters repeatedly called Xinjia hotel operator Yang Jinqiang, but has not been answered.
除了欣佳酒店，杨金锵还是泉州市新星机电工贸有限公司法定代表人。
Besides Xinjia Hotel, Yang Jinqiang is the legal representative of Quanzhou New Star Electrical and Mechanical Industry Co. Ltd.
这家公司成立于2006年2月17日，注册资本330万元，经营范围包括机电设备(不含特种设备)、电子产品、建筑材料销售等。
Founded on February 17, 2006, the company has a registered capital of 3.3 million yuan and its business scope includes mechanical and electrical equipment (excluding special equipment), electronic products and sales of building materials.
前述一位全德宝公司人士向《财经》记者回忆，杨金锵的家就位于事发建筑背后的村子里，是一栋二层半的别墅，建于上世纪90年代，院落宽敞，在周围建筑的映衬下较为显眼。
Yang's home, located in the village behind the building, is a two-and-a-half-story villa built in the 1990s that stands out against the surrounding buildings, a Quanjude company told Caijing.
“90年代就有别墅的人，那肯定很厉害。
"People had villas in the '90s. It must have been terrible.
”这位人士评价杨金锵时称，杨是一个出色的生意人。
Yang Jinqiang, the person said, was a good businessman.
据他了解，欣佳酒店所在建筑就属于杨金锵所有，以前是座小山，挖平后建了房子，杨金锵原本还有个加油站，后来卖掉了。
According to his understanding, the building where Xinjia Hotel is located belongs to Yang Jinqiang, a former hill, built after leveling, Yang Jinqiang originally had a gas station, and later sold.
上述来自全德宝公司的人士，初次接触杨金锵是在2013年，当时汽车销售行业正处高峰期，他打算租个店面做汽车销售生意，而事发建筑正好张贴出了招租启示。
The first contact with Mr. Yang came in 2013, at the height of the auto sales industry, when he was planning to rent a storefront to sell cars, and the building was posting a rental message.
杨金锵在自己的别墅里展示了事发建筑的规划图，并表示，为了建这栋7层楼的房子，还向银行贷了款。
Yang Jinqiang showed a plan of the building in his villa and said he had borrowed money from the bank to build the seven-storey house.
“能贷款，肯定不可能是违建。
"Being able to borrow money is definitely not a breach of contract.
”这位人士称。
"said the man.
但实际上，对于这栋房子是否属于违建，这位人士当时并未在意，他向《财经》记者坦承，当时只想有个地方能开店就行了。
In fact, the person didn't care if the building was illegal. He admitted to Caijing that he wanted only to have a place where he could open a shop.
1000多平米的一楼展厅，月租4万多元，这个价格并没有低于当时的市场行情。
More than 1000 square meters of the first floor exhibition hall, monthly rental of more than 40,000 yuan, the price is not lower than the market.
这位人士称，他搬进大楼的前几年里，楼上是空的，他猜测当时可能是杨金锵资金不足，所以没把二楼至六楼的楼板架上。
The person said he moved into the building a few years ago, upstairs is empty, he speculated that it may be Yang Jinqiang insufficient funds, so did not put the second to the sixth floor of the floor shelf.
租好店铺后，全德宝公司顺利做了工商登记，“我没有看到产权证，工商登记用的是租赁合同。
After renting a good store, Quan De Bao company did a successful business registration, "I did not see the title certificate, the business registration is using the lease contract.
”关于欣佳酒店所在的这块土地，杨金锵曾向这位人士提及，这是杨所在村子的土地，当时还有一些纠纷，但未说明是何纠纷。
Yang Jinqiang told the person about the land where the hotel was located that it was the land of Yang's village and there were some disputes, but no dispute was specified.
这位人士回忆，2017年，杨金锵开始在楼上装修欣佳酒店，运送建筑材料，要从全德宝公司店面一侧的电梯上去，“对我的影响比较大”。
In 2017, Mr. Yang began to decorate the Xinjia Hotel upstairs to deliver construction materials to an elevator on the side of the company's storefront, "affecting me more," the person recalled.
这位人士曾就此和杨金锵沟通，对方让其进行评估后给出一个赔偿方案。
This person has communicated with Yang Jinqiang about this, the other side lets it undertake appraisal to give a compensation plan.
但杨金锵最终不认可赔偿方案，加之酒店装修期间“爆了五六块玻璃”，2017年底，这位人士将公司搬离大楼。
But Mr. Yang ultimately did not approve the compensation package, and the hotel decoration period "exploded five or six pieces of glass", the person will move the company from the building at the end of 2017.
为何被选为隔离点？一份文件截图显示，欣佳酒店所在的社区居委会曾发出通知，自2月18日以后，来自湖北（武汉）、温州市乐清市、泰顺县鹿城区、龙湾区、瓯海区、瑞安市、永嘉县等地返回鲤城区人员将实行集中隔离，而隔离点正是欣佳酒店。
Why was the site chosen for isolation? A document shows that since February 18, residents from Hubei (Wuhan), Wenzhou Yueqing, Lucheng, Longwan, Ouhai, Ruian and Yongjia counties from Hubei (Wuhan), Wenzhou Yueqing, Taishun County, Lucheng, Longwan, Ouhai, Ruian and Yongjia will be centralized.
欣佳酒店何以能成为新冠肺炎疫情防控的隔离点？《财经》记者向有关部门咨询欣佳酒店成为疫情隔离点的原因，对方表示“不清楚”。
How can Xinjia Hotel become a quarantine point for the prevention and control of the New Crown Pneumonia outbreak? Caijing asked the relevant department why Xinjia Hotel became an epidemic quarantine site.
欣佳酒店2018年6月才开业，但至今已被当地有关部门两次行政处罚。
Xinjia Hotel opened only in June 2018, but has been administratively imposed twice by local authorities.
两次违法行为类型均为：“未按规定办理住宿登记”。
The two types of violations are: "not registered in accordance with the provisions of the registration."
第一次处罚日期是2018年11月16日，第二次处罚日期是2019年12月4日，两次均责令酒店立即整改，并分别对酒店处以警告并处罚款3000元。
The first penalty was imposed on 16 November 2018 and the second on 4 December 2019, both of which ordered the hotel to make immediate corrections and imposed a warning and a fine of $3,000.
工商资料显示，欣佳酒店的企业地址近日发生了变更，由福建省泉州市鲤城区常泰街道上村社区南环路1688号6楼”变更为“福建省泉州市鲤城区常泰街道上村社区南环路1688号地上一层大厅、四至六层”。
The business information shows that the business address of Xinjia Hotel has been changed recently from 1688 South Ring Road, Changtai Street, Shangcun Community, Yicheng District, Quanzhou City, Fujian Province, to "Ground Floor Hall, 4-6 floors, 1688 South Village Road, Changtai Street, Yicheng District, Quanzhou City, Fujian Province."
2017年，杨金锵曾以保证人身份被卷入一起金融借款纠纷，成为案件的被告之一。
In 2017, Yang Jinqiang was involved as a surety in a financial borrowing dispute and became one of the defendants in the case.
相关司法材料显示，被告谢某某因未能按时向厦门银行泉州分行归还借款，被后者诉至法庭。
The relevant judicial materials show that the defendant Xie Xie failed to return the loan to Xiamen bank Quanzhou branch on time, the latter was sued by the court.
福建省泉州市丰泽区人民法院一审判决被告谢某某需向原告偿还借款本金272092.22元、利息12056.24元、罚息652.92元、复利320.44元。
The People's Court of Fengze District, Quanzhou City, Fujian Province, ruled that defendant Xie must repay to the plaintiff the principal of the loan of 272092.22 yuan, interest of 12056.24 yuan, penalty interest of 652.92 yuan and compound interest of 320.44 yuan.
杨金锵及其他被告对谢某某的前述债务向原告承担连带保证责任，并在承担了保证责任后，有权向被告谢某某追偿。
Yang Jinqiang and other defendants are jointly and severally liable to the plaintiff for the aforesaid debts of Xie and have the right to thank the defendant for the repayment after assuming the responsibility of suretyship.
据泉州市卫健委3月7日通报，截至3月6日24时，该市累计报告新冠肺炎确诊病例47例，累计追踪到密切接触者1725人，其中解除医学观察1706人、转为疑似或确诊病例10人、尚在医学隔离观察9人。
As of 2400 hours on March 6, a total of 47 confirmed cases of New Crown Pneumonia had been reported in the city, with 1,725 people in close contact, including 1,706 from medical observation, 10 from suspected or confirmed cases and 9 from medical isolation.
其中发生酒店坍塌事故的鲤城区确诊1例。
One case was diagnosed in Lei City where the hotel collapsed.
泉州市政府通报，事发当时，欣佳酒店集中医学观察点共入住重点疫区或有相关旅居史的人员58人，经过核酸检测均为阴性。
Quanzhou City government informed that at the time of the incident, Yan Jia Hotel concentrated medical observation points in key epidemic areas or have a history of living in 58 people, after Nucleic acid testing negative.
此外，欣佳酒店还有管理、服务等人员16人，另有租在该栋大楼的车行人员6人。
In addition, there are 16 management, service and other staff, as well as six car dealerships in the building.
【版权声明】本作品著作权归《财经》独家所有，授权深圳市腾讯计算机系统有限公司独家享有信息网络传播权，任何第三方未经授权，不得转载。
Copyright Declaration The copyright of this work belongs exclusively to Caijing, and authorizes Shenzhen Tencent Computer System Co. Ltd. to enjoy exclusive rights of information network transmission.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
追问泉州坍塌酒店：装修改造是否违规？为何成为疫情隔离点？。
Follow-up Quanzhou Collapse Hotel: whether renovation is illegal? Why has become an epidemic quarantine point?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "追问泉州坍塌酒店：装修改造是否违规？为何成为疫情隔离点？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; whether the renovation was illegal? Why was it an epidemic quarantine?;
var msg_desc = "在疫情防控期间，各地酒店纷纷关门，开业不久却两次被行政处罚的泉州欣佳酒店何以能成为疫情防控的集中隔离点？该酒店自2017年就在大楼内多次进行改装，相关手续是否齐全？及时回应这些疑点，有利于缓解公众的担忧";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; How did Quanzhou Singha, a hotel that was closed during the epidemic and was administratively imposed twice for not long after opening, become a centralized quarantine for disease prevention and control? Has the hotel been retrofitted multiple times since 2017 to help allay public concerns and concerns?
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
