武汉接到两个硬任务：检测全部疑似病例，收治所有确诊病人。
Wuhan received two hard tasks: to detect all suspected cases, and to treat all confirmed patients.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 活粒。
The following article comes from living grains.
Author 活粒。
Author live granules.
活粒。
Live granules.
联动三医，桥接资本，直达健康。
Connect three medicine, bridge capital, directly to health.
武汉市各区正在加紧把所有发热人员集中隔离，并进行全部发热人员的检测，目的是让疫情全部暴露出来，之后疫情防控也将从“攻坚战”转至“歼灭战”图/法新文 |《财经》特派武汉记者 言清 王小 编辑 | 王小“今天的会非常重要，不能有任何丝毫理解上的差误，如果出现任何问题，会追责，不是吓唬大家。
All fevers in Wuhan are being quarantined and tested for all fevers, so that the outbreak can be fully exposed. The epidemic will then shift from a "tough battle" to a "war of annihilation" / AFP / Raider Wang
总书记前天的会议已经提了，做不好要动刀子。
The General Secretary had spoken at the meeting the day before yesterday.
”2月5日上午，在武汉市卫健委10楼会议室中一位发言人称。
"On February 5 morning, a spokesman in the meeting room on the 10th floor of Wuhan Health Commission said.
《财经》记者独家获悉，当日上午，武汉市新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控指挥部召开的会议（下称指挥部会议）中，要求各区在未来两天内，最晚至2月7日，完成武汉市所有疑似病例的核酸检测。
"Caijing" reporter learned that that morning, Wuhan, the new coronavirus infection of the pneumonia command convened by the command (hereinafter referred to as the command conference), the next two days, at the latest by February 7, all the suspected cases of nucleic acid testing in Wuhan city.
除了疑似病例的检测，这次会议还提出争取在2月5日晚24时，收治所有确诊病人。
In addition to the detection of suspected cases, the meeting also called for the admission of all confirmed patients by 2400 hours on 5 February.
这两个任务，是上级对武汉提出的硬性要求，也是当前武汉对抗疫情中的两大难点。
These two tasks, the superiors of Wuhan put forward the hard requirements, is the current Wuhan in the fight against the two major difficulties.
武汉核酸检测的最高能力，目前已经达到日6000-8000份，门诊量13000人，如果已涉及的各类医院能按期完工，将新增床位近7000个。
Wuhan Nucleic Acid Detection, the highest capacity, has now reached 6,000-8,000 a day, 13,000 outpatient visits, if the various types of hospitals involved can be completed on schedule, will add nearly 7,000 beds.
截至2月5日17时，武汉共确诊病患8551例，死亡362人，累计治愈373人。
As of 17: 00 on February 5, Wuhan has confirmed a total of 8,551 patients, 362 deaths, a cumulative total of 373 cured.
2月4日0时-24时，湖北省新增新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎病例3156例，其中武汉市新增1967例，占湖北省新增病例的62.3%。
Between 0000 and 2400 hours February 4, there were 3,156 new cases of pneumonia in Hubei Province, including 1967 in Wuhan, accounting for 62.3 percent of the new cases in Hubei province.
《财经》记者获悉，武汉市各区正在加紧把所有发热人员集中隔离，并进行全部发热人员的检测，目的是让疫情全部暴露出来，达到高点后，将呈现平稳下降趋势，之后疫情防控也将从“攻坚战”转至“歼灭战”。
According to Caijing, all feverish people in Wuhan are being quarantined and tested for all fevers. The goal is for the outbreak to be fully exposed and to reach a plateau with a steady downward trend, after which the disease will be controlled and controlled from a "tough battle" to a "war of annihilation."
第一个任务：三天内检测完所有疑似病例“我们有两三天的时间，把武汉市所有的问题都暴露出去。
First Mission: Testing all suspected cases in three days "We have two or three days to expose all the problems in Wuhan.
现在看目前武汉市每天的各项指标都在增长，这和现在检测情况有非常大的关系。
Now look at Wuhan city every day indicators are growing, which and now the detection situation has a very large relationship.
”指挥部会议中一位发言人称。
"said a spokesman at the headquarters meeting.
2月4日，武汉核酸检测1000多份，发热门诊量13000人。
On February 4, Wuhan nucleic acid testing more than 1,000, calorific outpatients 13,000 people.
目前，主要是武汉各区开展抽样送检， 据指挥部会议提及的信息，医院里的疑似病人已经全部做完检测。
At present, mainly in Wuhan district to carry out sampling inspection, according to the command conference mentioned that the suspected patients in the hospital have all been tested.
更多检测试剂盒正源源不断地涌向湖北。
More test kits are pouring into Hubei.
“我们公开承诺和爱心机构、个人一起捐赠12万份。
"We have publicly pledged 120,000 donations, together with institutions and individuals," he said.
”一位华大基因高层人士告诉《财经》记者。
A senior Huada gene executive told Caijing.
截至2月3日，华大基因向武汉及湖北地区实际已发货到位2.56万人份。
By February 3, Huada Gene had actually delivered 25,600 people to Wuhan and Hubei regions.
这些试剂中，武汉市发放9500人份，湖北非武汉地区发放1.61万人份。
Of these reagents, 9,500 were distributed in Wuhan city and 16,100 in non-Wuhan, Hubei Province.
病毒的遗传信息储存在核酸中，预示病毒特性的同时，也似一个“身份证”，可帮助研究者分辨具体的病毒种类。
The virus's genetic information is stored in nucleic acids, signaling the nature of the virus and acting as an "identity card" to help researchers identify specific viruses.
检测试剂分为两类，一个是PCR， 一个是测序。
There are two types of detection reagents: PCR and sequencing.
PCR的主要原理是，设计出可与病毒身份信息相匹配的另一段核酸序列。
The main principle of PCR is to design another sequence of nucleic acids that matches the virus's identity information.
在浩如烟海的核酸海洋中，像一枚探针，与特定“身份”的病毒配对，甄别出中招者。
In a sea of nucleic acids, it acts as a probe, paired with a specific "identity" virus to identify the right candidate.
测序，就是要将全部核酸都读出来。
Sequencing is to read out all nucleic acids.
因此PCR方法，检测速度快，能尽快知道有没有病毒的存在；测序，更准也更全面，甚至能知道病毒的变异，但这种方法贵，速度也慢。
Therefore, PCR method, fast detection speed, can quickly know whether there is a virus; sequencing, more accurate and comprehensive, and even know the mutation of the virus, but this method is expensive and slow.
按上述指挥部会议要求，在两到三天安排检测社会上的疑似病人，隔离点当中的隔离人员，和发热门诊里转运过来的人员。
As required by the above-mentioned command conference, arrangements are made for the testing of suspected patients in the community, quarantine persons in isolation points and persons transferred from fever clinics within two to three days.
检测顺序是，首先是高度疑似的，其次是隔离点的人员，然后是发热门诊转移过来的人员。
The order of detection is, first, highly suspected, followed by the personnel at the isolation point, and then by the persons transferred from the fever clinic.
按此顺序，不超过三天完成全部检测。
In this order, all tests are completed within three days.
“一天工作接近21个小时。
"Nearly 21 hours a day.
现在标本量特别大，昨天检测了大概100多例样本。
Specimens are now particularly large, and about 100 samples were tested yesterday.
”华中科技大学同济医学院附属同济医院一位工作人员称。
"Tongji Hospital, affiliated with Tongji Medical College, HUST, said.
同济医院检测能力已经达到每日核酸检测能力达1000份，每4个小时批量检测180份左右。
Tongji hospital testing capacity has reached a daily nucleic acid detection capacity of 1,000, every four hours batch testing about 180.
目前检测所需的试管，武汉卫健委有4.5万个试管，可以满足检测需求。
At present, the test tube needed for testing, Wuhan Health Commission has 45,000 test tube, can meet the test demand.
《财经》记者了解到，2月2日武汉新增了数家核酸试剂检测机构，分别是武汉大学人民医院、武汉市第七医院、普爱医院等。
On February 2, Wuhan added several new nucleic acid reagent testing organizations, namely Wuhan University People's Hospital, Wuhan Seventh Hospital, Pu Ei Hospital, and so on.
截至目前，武汉市共有31家机构同时开展核酸检测，核酸单日样本检测能力由初期200份，提升到近期每日4000余份。
So far, 31 institutions in Wuhan have simultaneously carried out nucleic acid testing, and the ability to detect nucleic acid in a single day has increased from an initial 200 to more than 4,000 a day.
湖北省卫健委2月4日发布的信息显示，武汉市共有40家机构可开展新型冠状病毒核酸检测，包括湖北省疾控中心、武汉市疾控中心，以及25家医院，与13家第三方检验机构。
A total of 40 facilities in Wuhan city, including the Hubei CDC and Wuhan CDC, as well as 25 hospitals and 13 third-party testing organizations, were able to test for new coronavirus nucleic acids, Hubei Province, Hubei Province, Wuhan, February 4, 2007.
一位武汉定点医院的医生告诉《财经》记者，他见过肺CT表现为严重病毒性肺炎的患者，核酸两次检测都是阴性，最后转阳。
A doctor at Wuhan Ding-point Hospital told Caijing that he had seen patients with pulmonary CT showing severe viral pneumonia and that nucleic acid tests were negative on both occasions and turned positive.
他们医院核酸试剂的阳性率为45%。
Their hospital nucleic acid reagent positive rate is 45%.
为了提高准确度，医院会再次确认进行“双阳检测”。
In order to improve accuracy, the hospital will again confirm the "double-yang test."
2月5日的指挥部会议提及，目前武汉各医院内的疑似病人，第二遍检测也已全部做完。
The February 5 command meeting mentioned that Wuhan hospitals at present suspected patients, the second test has also been completed.
第二个任务：2月5日晚收治所有确诊病人“今天晚上12点以前，所有确诊病人，都要收治。
The second task: February 5 night admission of all confirmed patients "Tonight before 12 o'clock, all confirmed patients will be admitted to the hospital.
”指挥部会议发言人在2月5日上午表示。
A spokesman for the headquarters meeting said on the morning of February 5.
所谓全部收治，主要是重症病人，由武汉市卫健委安排，接到重症医院和定点医院；轻症病人，则安排进入“方舱医院”。
The so-called all treatment, mainly serious patients, by Wuhan Health Care Commission, received the severe hospital and the designated hospital; light patients, arrangements into the "cabin hospital."
“方舱医院”与野战机动医院类似，由活动的"模块房子"建成，包括医疗方舱、技术保障方舱、病房单元、生活保障单元及运力等组成部分。
Similar to field mobile hospital, FMS was built with RVA & quot; modular & quot; built, including medical cabins, technical support cabins, ward units, life support units, and capacity components.
首批“方舱医院”分别位于武汉国际会展中心、洪山体育馆、武汉客厅，设置3000多张床位，用于收治轻症患者，即检测呈阳性但无症状或症状不明显的病人，并配置医疗设备和医护人员，对患者进行观察治疗。
The first batch of "Fang Cao Hospitals" were located in Wuhan International Convention and Exhibition Center, Hongshan Stadium and Wuhan Sitting Room, with more than 3,000 beds for the treatment of patients with mild diseases, that is, those who are positive but have no symptoms or obvious symptoms, and equipped with medical equipment and medical personnel to observe and treat patients.
三个“方舱医院”中，2月5日武汉国际会展中心可以运营，计划2月6日三个医院全部开放。
The Wuhan International Convention and Exhibition Center will be operational on February 5, and all three hospitals are scheduled to open on February 6.
据悉，“方舱医院”收治的新冠肺炎轻症确诊患者，当患者症状一旦转重，将可及时进行转院治疗。
It is reported that the "square cabin hospital" admitted to the new crown pneumonia patients, when the patient's symptoms will be transferred to hospital treatment.
2月4日上午10点，《财经》记者在武汉国际会展中心看到，一楼大厅由一两米高的木板隔离成若干个数百平方米的独立区域，每个独立区域内都布设有20多张简易床位，一张被子一叠两折，一面垫在床板上，一面可盖在身上，被子下有电热毯。
At 10 a.m. on Feb. 4, the Caijing reporter saw in Wuhan International Convention and Exhibition Center that the ground floor hall was separated into several hundred square meters by a wooden plank, each containing more than 20 beds, a double fold of quilt, one on the bed and one over the body, with electric blankets under the covers.
单人床旁边放着一套课桌椅，可以放个人用品。
Next to the single bed was a set of desks and chairs for personal effects.
在“方舱医院”支援的医疗队有中南医院，志愿队有湘雅医院。
In the "square cabin hospital" support of the medical team has South China Hospital, the volunteer team has Xiangya Hospital.
据湖北日报消息，截至4日22时，武汉市已征用11家场馆改造成“方舱医院”。
As of 2200 hours on the 4th, Wuhan city had requisitioned 11 stadiums to be converted into "square cabin hospitals," according to the Hubei Daily.
继连夜建设上述三个“方舱医院外”，2月4日武汉再建8座，分别位于武汉国际博览中心、塔子湖体育中心、武汉体育馆、石牌岭职高、武汉体育中心、武汉光谷科技会展中心、大花山户外运动中心、黄陂一中体育馆，可提供万余张床位。
Wuhan International Exhibition Center, Tower Lake Sports Center, Wuhan Stadium, ShijialingGao, Wuhan Sports Center, Wuhan Guanggu Science and Technology Convention and Exhibition Center, Daxiashan Outdoor Sports Center and Huangpi Stadium can provide more than 10,000 beds.
如果病人没能进入“方舱医院”或定点医院，则由各区安排，临时进入民营医院或其他集中隔离点过渡。
If the patient does not have access to the "Fang Cao Hospital" or the designated hospital, the patient will be arranged by the districts to temporarily enter a private hospital or other centralized isolation points.
2月3日，武汉硚口区某酒店外排起长队，他们是由社区排查出的发热居民，疑似感染新冠病毒。
February 3, Wuhan Zhangkou District, a long queue outside a hotel, they are the community screening out the hot residents, suspected to be infected with the new crown virus.
一位现场医护人员说，两三天后，住在这里的人将统一进行核酸试剂盒检测。
In two or three days, the people living there will be testing nucleic acid kits, said a field medical worker.
结果为阴性的人可以直接离开；确诊的病人，轻症继续在酒店隔离，重症去医院。
Those with negative results can leave directly; diagnosed patients, mild cases continue to be quarantined in hotels, critically ill to hospitals.
有入住酒店的人需要先量体温。
People who live in a hotel need to have their temperature taken first.
一位体温高于39℃的男士被劝阻。
A man with a body temperature above 39 degrees Celsius was discouraged.
“这里只是一个观察隔离点”，一位医护人员解释，“没有治病，没有抢救的措施”。
"It's just an observation point," explained a paramedic. "There's no cure, no cure."
指挥部会议中一位发言人称，如果有病人没能进入“方舱医院”或定点医院，则由各区安排，临时进入民营医院过渡。
A spokesman for the headquarters meeting said that if a patient fails to enter the "square cabin hospital" or the designated hospital, then the district arrangements, temporary admission to the private hospital transition.
总之，所有确诊的病人，将都集中到隔离点，不能在家隔离。
In short, all confirmed patients will be concentrated in isolation and will not be isolated at home.
（《财经》记者孙爱民对此文亦有帮助）本文为《财经》与腾讯新闻独家合作内容，谢绝转载▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
(Caijing reporter Sun Aimin is helpful to this article) This article is an original article of Caijing magazine and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉接到两个硬任务：检测全部疑似病例，收治所有确诊病人。
Wuhan received two hard tasks: to detect all suspected cases, and to treat all confirmed patients.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉接到两个硬任务：检测全部疑似病例，收治所有确诊病人";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Wuhan was given two hard tasks: testing all suspected cases and treating all of its diagnosed patients;;;
var msg_desc = "武汉市各区正在加紧把所有发热人员集中隔离，并进行全部发热人员的检测，目的是让疫情全部暴露出来，之后疫情防控也";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
