她们在战疫：有人一月没见孩子，有人奔袭500公里回武汉。
They are in the epidemic: someone did not see the children in January, someone rushed 500 kilometers back to Wuhan.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
今天是国际妇女节。
Today is International Women's Day.
疫情爆发一个多月，战疫一线的女医生、女护士度过了怎样的时光？穿上防护服，她们是义无反顾的战士，是这个社会的铠甲。
More than a month after the outbreak of the epidemic, the women doctors and nurses on the front line of the epidemic spent what time? Wearing protective clothing, they are incorruptible fighters, is the armor of this society.
脱下防护服，她们也只是普通的母亲、妻子和女儿，她们会害怕自己感染后不能康复；会想断奶一个多月的未满周岁的孩子过得好不好；会担心确诊感染的丈夫；更多的是自责——“我们当医生的，最大的亏欠是家属。
Take off their protective clothing, they are just ordinary mothers, wives and daughters, who fear that they will not recover from infection; children under one year of age who want to be weaned for more than a month do well; husbands who are diagnosed with infection; and more remorse themselves.
”“我相当于一个士兵”吴薇薇是1月30日确诊的。
"I am the equivalent of a soldier," Wu Wei-wei was diagnosed on January 30.
吴薇薇是武汉某医院呼吸科护士，今年30岁，2018年结婚，2019年7月生了一个女儿。
Wu Weiwei, a respiratory nurse at a Wuhan hospital, is 30 years old, married in 2018 and had a daughter in July 2019.
她是江西人，从南昌大学抚州医学分院毕业后，先在上海实习，然后回到江西工作。
She is a Jiangxi, from Nanchang University, after graduating from the Fushouzhou Medical College, practice in Shanghai, then returned to work in Jiangxi.
她丈夫研究生毕业后在武汉找了一份工作，她跟着他来到武汉。
After graduation, her husband got a job in Wuhan, and she followed him to Wuhan.
1月25日，疫情暴发后，吴薇薇所在的医院被征用为发热患者定点医院。
On January 25, after the outbreak of the outbreak, Wu Weiwei's hospital was requisitioned as a hospital for fever sufferers.
她每天为感染的病人测体温，打针，有的重症病人，肺部几乎全白了，因为缺氧，不愿意戴口罩，对着她咳嗽，她心里不舒服，但也不好多说什么。
She took temperature tests every day for infected patients, gave injections, and in some cases, her lungs were almost completely white. She was sick from lack of oxygen, did not want to wear a mask, and coughed at her.
之前，她每天下班后会正常回家，家里有她的丈夫、婆婆和八个月大的女儿。
She used to come home after work every day with her husband, mother-in-law and eight-month-old daughter.
女儿还在哺乳期，她每天给她喂奶。
She nursed her daughter every day while she was still nursing.
呼吸病是季节性疾病，到了冬天，病人会急剧增加，但是今年的病人比往年要多，加床的床位铺满了走廊，也不够住。
Respiratory disease is a seasonal disease. In winter, the number of patients increases dramatically, but this year there are more patients than usual, and beds in the corridors are not enough.
那是1月初，不明原因肺炎正在悄无声息地蔓延。
It was early January. Unexplained pneumonia was creeping in.
平常，呼吸科的护士会戴一次性的医用口罩，回家后把衣服脱下来，用袋子裹起来，洗个澡，再换一身新的。
Normally, respiratory nurses wear disposable medical masks, take off their clothes when they return home, wrap them in bags, take a bath and change into a new one.
医院一套衣服，家里另一套衣服。
A hospital suit, another suit at home.
她还买了一台紫外线消毒机定期消毒。
She also bought an ultraviolet disinfector to disinfect it regularly.
这是呼吸科医护人员的普遍习惯。
This is a common practice among respiratory medical staff.
1月14日，有个病人突然说，他的老婆和孩子都已被感染，护士们得知后很害怕。
On January 14, a patient suddenly said that his wife and children were infected and the nurses were afraid to hear about it.
那时肺炎是否人传人还不明确，大家就把一次性医用口罩改为普通外科口罩。
Pneumonia at that time whether person-to-person is not clear, everybody changes disposable medical mask to general surgical mask.
直到1月20日，钟南山院士首次确定人传人，护士们才开始穿隔离衣，戴N95口罩。
It was not until January 20, when academicians first identified human transplants, that nurses began wearing protective clothing and N95 masks.
物资紧缺，呼吸科和感染科的口罩只有几十只。
Supplies are scarce, with only a few dozen respirators in the respiratory and infection departments.
一只口罩戴一天，一戴十几个小时。
Wear a mask for a day for more than 10 hours.
吴薇薇开始犯鼻炎，感觉鼻子闷闷的，后来才知道，这是感染的症状。
Wu Wei Wei begins to make rhinitis, feel nose is stuffy, just know later, this is the symptom of infection.
穿着防护服的医生护目镜已经起雾。
The doctor's goggles in protective clothing have fogged up.
受访者供图1月22日，她做了一次CT，显示肺部没有感染的迹象。
The interviewee gave a CT scan on Jan. 22 that showed no signs of lung infection.
她放心了下来，每天继续回家给女儿喂奶。
She was relieved and continued to feed her daughter every day.
医院变成定点医院后，她开始担心，万一传染给小宝宝怎么办呢？1月27日那天，她决定断奶，收拾好行李，一个人搬到医院去了。
When the hospital became a designated hospital, she began to worry about what to do if it should infect the baby, and on January 27th she decided to wean herself, pack her bags and move to the hospital alone.
第二天，她的核酸检测为阳性。
The next day, she tested positive for nucleic acid.
最担心的事发生了。
The worst thing that ever happened.
2月1日，吴薇薇的女儿开始咳嗽，丈夫告诉她，她比得知自己确诊还慌张——搬去医院前一晚，她给女儿喂了奶。
Wu Wei's daughter began coughing on Feb. 1, and her husband told her that she was more flustered than aware of her diagnosis - she had nursed her daughter the night before moving to the hospital.
她到处打电话，打给领导，领导也慌了，说这么小的宝宝她也不知道怎么搞，叮嘱她别让宝宝去医院，路上有感染的可能。
She called everywhere, called the leader, the leader also panic, said so little baby she did not know how to do, tell her not to let her baby to the hospital, there is a risk of infection on the way.
她又打市长热线，对方叫她等消息，等了几天回复说这事儿得让社区解决。
She called the mayor's hotline, called her, waited a few days and replied that the matter had to be settled by the community.
她想自己是轻症，女儿应该不会有事，叫丈夫先买点金银花露给她清清火。
She thought she was a mild case, the daughter should be all right, ask her husband to buy some honeysuckle dew to clear her fire.
那是她最难熬的一段时间。
It was the hardest time for her.
因为突然断奶，涨奶导致乳房胀痛，翻个身就会被痛醒，其他人要是不小心碰到，更疼得厉害。
Because suddenly weaning, breast swelling caused by swelling pain, turn over the body will be painful wake up, others if not careful to touch, more painful.
“别人说生孩子疼，等体验了涨奶就知道什么是更疼的了。
"Others said the baby hurt, such as the experience of milk to know what is more painful.
”她说。
'she said.
她的症状比较轻，被安排在医院的宿舍隔离。
Her symptoms were mild and she was placed in isolation in a hospital dormitory.
晚上，她不敢侧着睡，一边忍受乳房的胀痛，一边担心宝宝的安全。
At night, she did not dare to sleep sideways, while enduring breast swelling pain, while worrying about the baby's safety.
听说宝宝喝不惯奶粉，一个星期没有大便，她只能让丈夫用棉签沾点食用油，等到宝宝大叫的时候——那可能意味着她想大便，用棉签一点点把粪便掏出来，再给她揉揉肚子。
Heard that the baby can not drink milk powder, a week without stool, she can only let her husband use cotton swab dip oil, when the baby yelled - that may mean she want to stool, cotton swab out a little bit of excrement, then rub her belly.
手机总是不停地响，很多人给她打电话，问她的情况。
The cell phone kept ringing, and many people called her and asked how she was doing.
她想到大年三十那天，爸爸妈妈叫她别去上班了，“一份工作怎么了？你的宝宝这么小，家里还有那么重的房贷，你要是人没了，你老公压力得有多大啊。
She thought of the New Year's Day, her parents told her not to go to work, "What about a job? Your baby is so small, there is so much mortgage at home, and if you're gone, how stressed your husband is.
”她说：“没事没事，我相当于一个士兵，不能因为打仗就往后退呀，即使被感染了，我也会自己救自己，还有主任在呢，还有那么多领导在呢，他们不会不管我的。
"She said," It's all right, I'm like a soldier. I can't just go back to war and save myself if I get infected, and the director is there.
”她躺在床上，想了很多，越想压力越大，第二天她的症状加重，开始腹泻。
"She lay in bed thinking a lot, and the more she thought about it, the more pressure she felt.
“这样不对。
"That's not true.
”她对自己说，要吃好睡好，每天至少睡够八小时。
"Eat well," she said to herself, "and get at least eight hours' sleep a day.
她强迫自己吃饭，吃很多很多，产后减肥这事她也不在乎了，早上一定要吃鸡蛋，早晚一杯牛奶，不看手机，不看新闻，到了晚上直接关机，闷在被窝睡觉。
She forced herself to eat, eat a lot of things, post-natal weight loss she did not care, must eat eggs in the morning, a glass of milk in the morning, do not look at the phone, do not read the news, at night directly shut down, stuffy in bed sleep.
几天以后，她的身体恢复了过来。
A few days later her health returned.
回武汉去和吴薇薇一起被隔离的还有个女孩，也是呼吸科护士，叫夏艳，比吴薇薇小一岁，也是去年刚生的孩子，是个男孩，四个月大。
Back in Wuhan, along with Wu Wei Wei was isolated along with a girl, also a respiratory nurse, named Xia Yan, one year younger than Wu Weiwei, a child born last year, a boy, four months old.
呼吸科十四名护士，只有这两个新手妈妈被感染。
The respiratory department 14 nurses, only these two novice mothers were infected.
吴薇薇觉得可能是因为她俩都在哺乳期，正是免疫力低的时候。
Wu Wei Wei thinks probably because they are both breast-feeding, it is the time of low immunity.
原本夏艳1月22日已经休假回恩施婆婆家过年了。
Originally Xia Yan January 22 has taken a holiday back to her mother-in-law's home for the New Year.
疫情暴发后，医护人员短缺，靠外地支援才能勉强运作。
After the outbreak, there was a shortage of medical staff and field support was required to operate barely.
1月24日大年三十，夏艳接到护士长的通知，取消假期，所有人回医院上班。
January 24, about 30, Xia Yan received a notice from the head nurse, cancelled the holiday, all back to work in the hospital.
当天，夏艳和丈夫带着四个月大的宝宝开车500多公里赶回武汉。
That day, Xia Yan and her husband with the four-month-old baby drove more than 500 kilometers back to Wuhan.
当时夏艳心里倒没觉得害怕，“做好自己该做的。
Xia Yan didn't feel scared at the time. "Do what you have to do.
”她打算一个人回去，但丈夫坚持带着宝宝陪她，做她的精神支柱。
"She wanted to go home alone, but the husband insisted on taking the baby with him to be her spiritual support.
爸妈公婆都不同意，“你去医院小孩怎么办呀？”“没办法呀，该你上的时候你不能不上吧，只能辛苦我老公了。
My parents-in-law didn't agree, "What do you do when you go to the hospital?" "There is no way, when you have to go to bed, you have to work hard at my husband.
”她整理好行李，按照计划，她会直接在医院住下来，“心里很舍不得，因为我一上班，注定就见不到宝宝了。
"She packed her bags and was scheduled to stay directly in the hospital," feeling very uncomfortable because I was destined to miss the baby as soon as I got to work.
”那时候武汉已经关闭出城通道。
"Wuhan had already closed the city thoroughfare.
从恩施到武汉，路上设置了重重关卡，她时不时得下车登记，测体温，问去哪儿？她说武汉，对方不敢相信，嘟囔着“还有去武汉的。
From Enshi to Wuhan, where roadblocks set up, she had to get off every now and then to check in, take temperature, ask where?
”天空阴沉沉的，下起了雨，走一段又下了雪。
The sky was overcast, it began to rain, and it snowed for some time.
等她到了医院，所有人戴着口罩，病人一个一个隔离在单独的病房，气氛肃静，那种古怪的被死亡笼罩的氛围让她紧张。
By the time she got to the hospital, all wearing masks, patients were isolated in separate wards, the atmosphere was quiet, and the strange atmosphere of death overshadowed her.
在一线忙碌的医务人员。
The busy medical staff on the front line.
受访者供图和吴薇薇一样，夏艳也在哺乳期给孩子断了奶。
The interviewee supplied pictures and Wu Wei Wei same, Xia Yan also gave lactation to the child to cut off the milk.
在医院，夏艳第一次接触防护服，一步一步摸索着适应，比如头发要完全包进去，耳朵和眼睛不能露在外面，早上不敢喝水，只敢吃两个馒头一个鸡蛋，穿上防护服就不能上厕所。
At the hospital, Xia Yan first contact with protective clothing, step by step grope for adaptation, such as hair to be completely wrapped, ears and eyes not exposed to the outside, dare not drink water in the morning, only dare to eat two steamed buns an egg, wear protective clothing can not go to the toilet.
防护服是一次性的，但是物资短缺，上午穿完，脱下来消毒，下午继续穿。
Protective clothing is disposable, but there is a shortage of supplies, wear in the morning, disinfect, continue to wear in the afternoon.
她也忍受着涨奶的疼痛，中午在更衣室把奶挤出来，怕有病毒，挤完就扔，不敢留下。
She also endured the pain of milk, at noon in the locker room squeeze out the milk, afraid of a virus, squeeze to throw, dare not stay.
后来她就不挤了，就让乳房涨着，涨一段时间，奶水会自己回去，“慢慢就好了。
Later she did not squeeze, let the breast rise, a period of time, the milk will go back, "slowly."
"她妈妈说。
Her mother says.
2月4日，夏艳确诊，核酸检测阳性，CT显示肺部感染。
February 4, Xia Yan confirmed that the nucleic acid test is positive, CT shows the lung infection.
那是下午五点，她害怕极了，不停地哭，我不发烧不咳嗽，平时防护做得也蛮好的，怎么病毒就找上我了？她坐下来，反复地想，打电话给丈夫说，“我要是死了，你给我儿子找个后妈，要对他好一点。
It was five o'clock in the afternoon and she was so scared that she kept crying. I didn't have a fever and I didn't cough. I did a good job of protecting myself, so she sat down and thought and called her husband and said, "If I die, you will find a stepmother for my son.
”丈夫说，“你说啥呢？”情绪宣泄完以后，她睡了一觉，第二天就接受了事实，她安慰自己，“我还年轻，临床也有康复的病例，一定会好的。
"What do you say?" said the husband.After her emotional outburst, she fell asleep and accepted the fact the next day, comforting herself, "I'm still young, I've had some clinical cases of recovery, and I'll be fine.
”夏艳和吴薇薇在宿舍相互鼓励，当初听说夏艳从恩施赶回医院，吴薇薇特别佩服她，“这是个火坑，你怎么就来了？”到了2月9日，医院要求所有确诊病人住病房，两人就一起搬到专门给医院职工住的病房。
"Xia Yan and Wu Wei Wei encouraged each other in the dormitory. When she heard that Xia Yan had rushed back to the hospital from Enshi, Wu especially admired her.
病房里有电视，夏艳每天看新闻联播，她让老公托社区的工作人员送来一些生活用品和几本书，定期和宝宝、丈夫视频。
Ward there is television, Xia Yan every day to watch the news broadcast, she asked her husband to entrust the community with some supplies and a few books, and regularly with the baby, husband video.
2月11日，她查了CT，基本没什么问题，2月13日，她出院回家。
On 11 February, she checked the CT and was essentially okay. On 13 February, she was discharged from the hospital and returned home.
回到家，儿子直愣愣地瞪着她，像看一个陌生人。
When he got home, his son stared at her as if he were a stranger.
丈夫向她诉苦，因为一直抱着孩子，饮食不规律，晚上又睡不了整觉，“我浑身疼，家里的膏药都贴完了。
The husband complained to her because he had been holding the baby, eating irregular food and not sleeping all night. "I feel pain all over, the plasters at home have been put up.
”夏艳和吴薇薇住的隔离病房。
"Xia Yan and Wu Wei Wei live in the isolation ward.
受访者供图“最大的亏欠是家属”徐德琴的儿媳妇也是刚生完孩子十几天，正在家里坐月子。
Xu Deqin's daughter-in-law, who had just given birth for ten days, was sitting at home giving birth.
徐德琴请小区的一位邻居来家里做月嫂，想趁春节好好照顾儿子一家。
Xu Deqin asked a neighbor to come home to do his sister-in-law, want to take good care of her son and his family.
没想到自己却被感染了。
I didn't expect to be infected.
徐德琴是湖北某医院的妇产科医生，所在的城市距离武汉约四十公里。
Xu Deqin is an obstetrician-gynecologist at a hospital in Hubei province, about 40 kilometers from Wuhan.
她今年57岁，之前一直在住院部，很辛苦，不能按时吃饭。
She was 57 years old and had worked very hard in the inpatient department, unable to eat regularly.
她年纪大了一直站着腿受不了，2018年，转到妇科门诊。
She was too old to stand on her legs, 2018, referred to a gynaecological clinic.
节假日是她最繁忙的时段。
Holidays are her busiest time.
很多病人在武汉打工，看诊不方便，等到放假才回来看病，而且回来看病还能通过农村医疗保险报销。
Many patients work in Wuhan, see inconvenient, wait until the holiday to come back to see a doctor, and come back to see a doctor can also be reimbursed through rural medical insurance.
春节前，徐德琴每天都有手术，最多的一天做了五六台。
Before the Spring Festival, Xu Deqin had surgery every day, the most day did five or six.
她猜测，她应该是在和病人以及病人家属面对面沟通的时候被感染的。
She suspects she was infected during face-to-face communication with patients and their families.
前两天，有个陌生女孩一直给她发短信，她性子急，干脆打了过去。
Two days ago, a strange girl has been texting her, she was impatient, simply called over.
女孩在她手上做的人流，手术后，留在家里休息，男朋友从武汉去的河北，到河北后确诊感染，而且是重症。
The girl in her hands abortion, surgery, stay at home to rest, boyfriend from Wuhan to Hebei, after the diagnosis of infection, and is serious.
女孩焦急地问她，怎么办？徐德琴问，你是什么时候做的手术？女孩说，一个多月前。
The girl anxiously asked her, how? Xu Deqin asked, when did you have the operation? The girl said more than a month ago.
徐德琴就崩溃了，那时候她只带了一层普通医用口罩。
Xu Deqin collapsed, then she only brought a layer of ordinary medical masks.
她想，像这样的病人还有很多。
There were many more patients like that, she thought.
1月29日，疫情大暴发，床位不够，徐德琴所在的医院是市里最大的医院，要重新组建，专门收治新冠肺炎病人，同时抽调至少三分之一的医生前往一线，每个科室的医护人员都要体检。
On 29 January, an outbreak occurred with insufficient beds, and Xu Deqin's hospital, the city's largest hospital, was to be reconstituted to treat patients with pneumonia and to draw at least one third of doctors to the frontline, with medical staff from each section undergoing a medical check-up.
她心里咯噔了一下，CT结果是双肺呈毛玻璃状，确定感染。
She thought, CT results are two lungs in the form of plexiglass, confirmed infection.
当时她表现得很沉静，但内心萌生了恐惧，“家里怎么办？月嫂肯定要走，儿媳妇没有人照顾怎么办？老伴是糖尿病高血压，被感染了怎么办？”她偷偷给儿子打电话，“妈妈做的CT有点问题，我不能回家了。
At that time, she was very quiet, but a fear arose in her heart, "How about at home? Sister-in-law must go, the daughter-in-law has no one to take care of? My wife is diabetic hypertension, how to be infected?"
你把我到过的地方，门把手，灯的开关，全部用酒精喷一下。
Where you put me, the doorknob, the light switch, spray it all with alcohol.
”接着，她戴着手套和口罩，叫儿子下楼送床单被子，然后自己开车去她新买的一套房子隔离。
"Then, wearing gloves and a mask, she told her son to go downstairs and send the sheets to the bedclothes.
房子还没装修好，没有电器，她让丈夫陆续送来电饭煲、腌肉、腌鱼和鸡蛋。
The house had not been renovated and there were no electrical appliances. She asked her husband to bring rice cookers, pickled meat, pickled fish and eggs.
当时小区没有封闭，儿子做好饭后，由丈夫送过来。
When the community was not closed, the son after dinner, sent by her husband.
她让丈夫别进来，丈夫非要进来，她让丈夫别坐在沙发上，说“我刚刚坐过”，丈夫不听，一屁股坐了下来，看着她，她气得要死，说“我吃饭要摘口罩，你走了我才能吃饭。
She told him not to sit on the sofa and say, "I just sat on it." The husband would not listen. He sat down and looked at her. She was so angry that she said, "I'll take off my mask when I'm gone.
”丈夫才走。
The husband went away.
“他是我们家最不讲卫生，最不相信科学的人，很烦他，都搞不清楚。
"He's the least sanitized person in our family, the least scientific, who annoys him and is confused.
”徐德琴经常因为丈夫的卫生问题烦恼不已，比如他总是往垃圾桶里吐痰。
Xu often frets about her husband's hygiene problems, such as spitting in the garbage can.
过了几天，丈夫和她说，他有点怕冷，似乎是感冒了。
A few days later her husband told her that he was afraid of the cold and seemed to have caught a cold.
她赶紧打给医院院长，同时和疾控中心联系，请他们安排一辆车，把丈夫接走。
She quickly called the hospital director and contacted the CDC, asking them to arrange for a car to take her husband away.
她心疼丈夫，担心他出事，但嘴上始终不肯软下来——“他活着还是好一些，但是我很烦他的所作所为，都是自讨的，本来这个病他可以避免，就是不听我的，家里所有人都没有，就他一个人。
She loved her husband, and feared what had happened to him, but she would not relent - "He's still better alive, but I'm tired of what he's done, and he could have avoided it, he wouldn't listen to me, there's no one in the house but him.
”2月5日，她的核酸检测结果是阳性，医院强制她住院，因为症状很轻，她原本计划在新房子居家隔离。
On February 5, when she tested positive for nucleic acid, the hospital forced her to stay in hospital because her symptoms were so mild that she had planned to keep her new house isolated.
结果那天，护士长、医院办公室主任、医院院长、医务科、疾控中心、社区轮番给她打电话，“我真的疯了，把我搞晕了”，“他们说你今天不住院，就让警察过来抓去医院”，她就乖乖坐上了去医院的车。
As a result, on that day, the head nurse, the hospital director, the hospital director, the medical section, the CDC, the community phoned her, "I'm really crazy, I'm dizzy." "They said you weren't in hospital today, so the police came to the hospital.
徐德琴家人居家隔离观察。
The Xudeqin family members were quarantined.
受访者供图徐德琴在医院住了十三天，吃了些中药，每天吸氧，做了三次CT，两次核酸才出院。
The interviewee provided Tu Xudeqin with the hospital for 13 days, took some Chinese medicine, took oxygen every day, did three CT, and discharged nucleic acids twice.
期间，社区通知她，要把儿媳妇和孙子安排在酒店隔离。
During this time, the community informed her that her daughter-in-law and grandson would be separated at the hotel.
她就急了，“小孩才十几天，妈妈又是剖腹产，那么冷的天，酒店没有奶粉，没有尿片，产妇吃不好，哪有奶水喂小孩呢？”她给社区的人发了一条很长的信息：“平时如果有一个病人没搞好，我一晚上都睡不着，非要搞好才行。
"The baby is only ten days old, my mother is a Caesarean section, so cold days, the hotel no milk powder, no diapers, maternal eating bad, how to feed the baby?" She sent a long message to the community: "If a patient is not doing well, I can't sleep all night long.
我们因公负伤，后方的家属很可怜，不仅仅是我，我们妇科医生长年累月，早上出门小孩没醒，晚上回去小孩睡了，每天很累很累，我们当医生的，最大的亏欠就是家属。
We are injured, the family on the home is very poor, not only I, we gynecologists in the morning children do not wake up in the morning, go back to bed at night, very tired every day very tired, we become a doctor, the biggest deficit is family.
和我同住的病友，是个一线的小护士，两个小孩都交给爷爷奶奶，一个多月没看到自己的孩子，每天晚上八点才能和家里视频。
My sick friend, a front-line nurse, the two children are handed over to grandparents, more than a month did not see their children, and every night 8 o'clock and home video.
我是1月30日出来的，也是一个多月没回家。
I came out on January 30th and haven't been home for more than a month.
我上了三十八年班，对家庭的照顾很少，我儿子一个人在家，要哄小孩，还要给媳妇儿做饭，可怜吗？我太对不起他们一家三口了。
After thirty-eight years of work, I took very little care of my family. My son was at home alone, had to coax the kids and cook for the daughter-in-law.
”社区同意了她的请求。
The community acceded to her request.
目前，徐德琴的丈夫仍在住院，正在康复中。
Xu Deqin's husband is still in hospital and recovering.
“希望和你一起到一线去”从2月10日到2月19日，吴薇薇总共在病房住了九天。
"From February 10 to February 19, Wu Weiwei stayed in the hospital room for a total of nine days.
搬去病房那天，她的丈夫和女儿已经解除隔离。
On the day she moved to the ward, her husband and daughter were released from quarantine.
女儿的咳嗽好了，也渐渐习惯了奶粉，不再便秘，她的心情变得很好，每天盯着手机和电视，关心疫情的发展。
Daughter cough good, also gradually accustomed to milk powder, no longer constipation, her mood became very good, staring at mobile phones and TV every day, concerned about the development of the epidemic.
疫情暴发前，吴薇薇主要接待哮喘、慢性阻塞性肺炎、结核、有胸腔积液、气胸的病人，为他们打针、换药、抽血、吸痰、做雾化，等等。
Before the outbreak, Wu Wei Wei mainly received asthma, chronic obstructive pneumonia, tuberculosis, chest cavity fluid, pneumothorax patients, injection, change medicine, blood, sputum, spray, and so on.
她每天七点半上班，下午四点半下班，但是如果四点新来了病人，她也得接待，等到把病人的输液、抽血、心电图全部做完，经常六七点才能下班。
She went to work at half past seven and finished work at half past four, but if a new patient arrived at four, she had to wait until she had done all the infusion, the blood and the ECG.
“我的运气特别好，这种事家常便饭，我就成了我们科最拖班的护士。
"I was lucky enough to be the most towering nurse in my department as a matter of routine.
”休产假期间，她在家“哪哪儿不舒服”，上了班“哪哪儿都好”，“上班很充实，能治百病”，她说。
During her maternity leave, she was at home "what's wrong" and on the shift "It's good everywhere" and "It's full at work and cures all ailments," she said.
出院回到家以后，她仍然戴着口罩，睡觉也戴，说得再隔离十四天才放心。
When she got home from hospital, she still wore a mask and slept, and said she would have to stay in isolation for another fourteen days.
吴薇薇记得疫情暴发的最初几天，她买不到口罩，焦虑地四处打听哪儿能买到N95。
Wu remembers that in the first few days of the outbreak, she couldn't buy a mask and anxiously looked around to see where she could buy N95.
她在江西念医学院的室友们，一共九人，出钱为她买了300个口罩，大年初一给她寄了过来。
Her roommates in Jiangxi Medical School, nine in all, paid to buy her 300 masks, which were sent to her on New Year's Day.
18元一只，总共是5400元。
One for 18 yuan, making a total of 5,400 yuan.
负责寄口罩的那个室友，是江西一家医院的护士，一直关心武汉的疫情。
The roommate in charge of sending masks, a nurse from a hospital in Jiangxi, has been concerned about the outbreak in Wuhan.
吴薇薇对她说：“病毒不是很可怕，防护好了就没事。
Wu Wei Wei said to her: "The virus is not very terrible, well protected will be all right.
”“希望能和你一起到一线去。
"I hope I can go with you.
”室友说。
"said the roommate.
“你先做好自己的事，武汉真正需要你的时候，你再来。
"You do your own thing first, Wuhan really needs you, you come again.
“吴薇薇说。
"said Wu Weiwei.
2月下旬，室友作为江西省第九批支援武汉的志愿者医护人员来到武汉中南医院。
In late February, roommates came to Wuhan Zhongnan Hospital as the ninth batch of volunteers supporting Wuhan in Jiangxi Province.
吴薇薇特别感动，“你给我寄口罩，还来支援武汉，等疫情过去，我要替武汉人民感谢你。
Wu Wei Wei particularly moved, "you sent me a mask, but also to support Wuhan, such as the past epidemic, I would like to thank you for the people of Wuhan.
”她知道，等隔离期结束，她也会回到属于她的岗位。
She knew that when the quarantine period was over, she would return to her position.
（文中医务工作者均为中国红十字基金会字节跳动医务工作者人道救助基金受助人。
(The medical workers are all Humanitarian Aid Fund recipients of the Chinese Red Cross Foundation Byte Beat Medical Workers.
应受访者要求，吴薇薇、夏艳、徐德琴为化名。
At the request of interviewees, Wu Wei, Xia Yan, Xu Deqin as aliases.
） 中国红十字基金会字节跳动医务工作者人道救助基金2020年1月25日，今日头条、抖音、西瓜视频母公司字节跳动向中国红十字基金会捐赠2亿元人民币，设立“中国红十字基金会字节跳动医务工作者人道救助基金”，为抗击疫情一线医务工作者提供保障。
) China Red Cross Foundation Byte Beat Medical Worker Humanitarian Relief Fund Today, the parent company of headlines, chatter and watermelon videos donated 200 million yuan to the China Red Cross Foundation to set up the China Red Cross Foundation Humanitarian Aid Fund for Byte Beating Medical Workers to protect front-line medical workers against the epidemic.
截至目前，基金总额已经增至4.03亿元，为国内规模最大的医务工作者人道救助基金。
So far, the fund has grown to 403 million yuan, making it the largest humanitarian relief fund for medical workers in the country.
截至2020年3月7日，该基金已为四十一批共2032名（共2034人次）抗击疫情医务工作者提供人道救助。
As at 7 March 2020, the Fund had provided humanitarian relief to 41 groups of 2,032 (2,034) health-care workers against the epidemic.
其中，为2007名因抗击疫情而不幸感染的医务工作者，每人资助10万元；为25名因抗击疫情而不幸殉职的医务工作者，每个家庭资助100万元。
Of these, $100,000 was provided to each of the 2007 medical workers unfortunate enough to have contracted the disease, and $1 million to each of the 25 medical workers who lost their lives in the fight against the outbreak.
点击阅读原文了解字节跳动医务救助基金（图文来自字节跳动）设计排版：赵星宇。
Byte Beating Medical Relief Fund (Text From Byte Beat) Design Layout: Zhao Xingyu.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
她们在战疫：有人一月没见孩子，有人奔袭500公里回武汉。
They are in the epidemic: someone did not see the children in January, someone rushed 500 kilometers back to Wuhan.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "她们在战疫：有人一月没见孩子，有人奔袭500公里回武汉";。
var msg _ title = & quot; they were at epidemic: someone didn't see a child in January, and someone ran 500 kilometers back to Wuhan and quot;;
var msg_desc = "今天，向抗疫一线的女医生、女护士说声节日快乐";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; today.
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
