德国拦截瑞士24万只口罩。
Germany intercepts 240,000 Swiss face masks.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：新苏黎世报周日版“ 瑞士国内几乎不生产任何医用物资，通常从德国购买。
Source: New Zurich Sunday edition "Switzerland does not produce almost any medical supplies, usually purchased from Germany.
”《新苏黎世报周日版》7日报道，一辆属于瑞士公司的卡车在前往瑞士途中被德国海关拦截，车上有24万个防护口罩。
A truck belonging to a Swiss company with 240,000 face masks was stopped by German customs on its way to Switzerland, the New Zurich newspaper reported Sunday.
瑞士联邦经济事务秘书处指出，这不是一个单独的案例，秘书处发言人Maienfisch称：“我们得到的信息是，还有其他物资运输也被拦截。
The Swiss Federal Secretariat for Economic Affairs pointed out that this was not a separate case and that Secretariat spokesman Maienfisch said: "We have received information that other shipments have also been stopped.
”上述事件发生后，瑞士立即向德国的有关部门进行了抗议。
"Immediately after the incident, Switzerland protested to the German authorities.
此外，秘书处6日还邀请瑞士驻德国大使就这个问题进行了讨论，敦促德国当局立即对被冻结的货物放行。
In addition, on 6 June, the Secretariat invited the Ambassador of Switzerland to Germany to discuss the issue and urged the German authorities to release the frozen cargo immediately.
瑞士国内目前已确诊超200例新冠肺炎病例，国内医疗物资告急。
Switzerland has now confirmed more than 200 cases of new crown pneumonia, domestic medical supplies are in urgent need.
当地媒体提到，3月3日，法国政府也下令征用全国所有防护口罩。
Local media reported that on March 3, the French government also ordered the requisition of all national respirators.
这些措施严重打击了瑞士，因为瑞士国内几乎不生产任何医用物资。
These measures have dealt a severe blow to Switzerland, where few medical supplies are produced.
报道称，瑞士公司通常从德国购买。
Swiss companies usually buy from Germany, the report said.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
德国拦截瑞士24万只口罩。
Germany intercepts 240,000 Swiss face masks.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "德国拦截瑞士24万只口罩";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Germany intercepted 240,000 Swiss face masks;;
var msg_desc = "瑞士国内几乎不生产任何医用物资，通常从德国购买。
var msg _ desc = & quot; hardly any medical supplies are produced in Switzerland, usually purchased from Germany.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
