米兰、威尼斯封城！意大利“战疫”升级军队待命。
Milan, Venice! Italy "epidemic" upgrade of the military standby.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：Twitter“ 威尼托大区帕多瓦市曾出现混乱，酒吧和餐馆人群四散，火车站则挤满了提着行李箱，戴着口罩和手套的民众。
Source: Twitter: "There was chaos in Padua, Veneto, with bars and restaurants scattered and stations packed with people carrying suitcases, masks and gloves.
”鉴于疫情加速蔓延，欧洲新冠病毒爆发中心决定采取进一步措施：封城。
In the light of the accelerating spread of the outbreak, the European Icecrown Virus Outbreak Center decided to take further steps: close the city.
当地时间8日凌晨，意大利政府公布新法令，规定从8日起，除工作特殊原因及紧急状况，禁止出入伦巴第大区及分布在威尼托、艾米利亚-罗马涅、皮埃蒙特和马尔凯大区的14个省。
In the early hours of 8 a.m. local time, the Government of Italy issued a new decree prohibiting access to the Lombardy region and 14 provinces in the regions of Veneto, Emilia Romagna, Piedmont and Marquez, except for reasons of work and emergencies.
法令规定，封锁期间，上述地区的所有学校停课，所有娱乐场所、博物馆、体育馆、游泳池将被关闭，游行、宗教、婚礼、葬礼等人员聚集活动以及除专业赛事外的所有体育活动都将暂停。
The decree stipulates that, during the closure period, all schools in the above-mentioned areas will be closed, all places of entertainment, museums, gymnasiums, swimming pools, parades, religious, weddings, funerals and all sporting events except professional events will be suspended.
违反封锁令的人可被处以罚款或三个月监禁，如有必要，意政府将出动军队。
Violations of the embargo are punishable by a fine or three months' imprisonment and, if necessary, by the Italian Government.
截至当地时间8日零时，意大利新冠肺炎累计确诊病例已增至6012例，累计死亡患者达到233人，疫情也已从7日的89座城市，蔓延至93座城市。
By 0000 local time, the cumulative number of confirmed cases of pneumonia in Italy had risen to 6,012, with 233 cumulative deaths, and the epidemic had spread from 89 cities on the 7th to 93 cities.
其中，近九成确诊及死亡病例出现在伦巴第、艾米利亚-罗马涅和威尼托大区。
Of these, nearly 90 per cent were diagnosed and died in the regions of Lombardy, Emilia Romagna and Veneto.
上述法令由总理孔特在8日凌晨签署，将从当天零时开始实施，暂定于4月3日结束，预计将影响至少1600万人、即意大利人口的四分之一，热门旅游地米兰和威尼斯也都将受到影响。
The decree, signed by Prime Minister Konte in the early hours of August and to begin at 0000 hours on the same day and is tentatively scheduled to end on 3 April, is expected to affect at least 16 million people, or a quarter of Italy's population, as well as the popular tourist destinations of Milan and Venice.
据美联社8日报道，7日晚间，由于有消息称政府计划“封城”，威尼托大区帕多瓦市曾出现混乱，酒吧和餐馆人群四散，火车站则挤满了提着行李箱，戴着口罩和手套的民众。
The city of Padova, in the region of Veneto, was in turmoil late Sunday as reports emerged that the government planned to "close the city," with bars and restaurants scattered and train stations packed with people carrying suitcases and wearing masks and gloves.
在孔特签署法令前，艾米利亚-罗马涅大区主席波纳奇尼（Stefano Bonaccini）曾表示，法令的部分内容仍需更多时间斟酌。
Before Conte signed the decree, Stefano Bonaccini, president of Emilia-Romagna, said parts of the decree needed more time to consider.
但孔特强调，“我们想保证公民的健康。
"We want to ensure the health of our citizens," he stressed.
我们理解这些措施会造成牺牲，（牺牲）可大可小，但在这种时候，我们必须对自己负责。
We understand that these measures can result in sacrifices, big or small, but at such times we must be accountable to ourselves.
”意大利政府已于5日宣布，将拨款75亿欧元用于支持该国的家庭以及企业应对疫情带来的紧急状况。
The Italian government announced Tuesday that it would allocate 7.5 billion euros to support families and businesses in coping with the emergency.
据法新社8日报道，为遏制国内疫情蔓延，意大利还将关闭全国范围内的电影院、剧院、博物馆等娱乐场所。
Italy will also close cinemas, theatres and museums across the country to try to contain the spread of the epidemic, AFP reported Wednesday.
另据路透社报道，为全力防控疫情，意大利同时将取消封锁区域医护人员的假期。
Italy will also cancel the holiday for medical staff in the blockaded areas in an effort to contain the outbreak, Reuters reported.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
米兰、威尼斯封城！意大利“战疫”升级军队待命。
Milan, Venice! Italy "epidemic" upgrade of the military standby.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "米兰、威尼斯封城！意大利“战疫”升级军队待命";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Milan, Venice! Italy's Plague upgrade was at & quot; & quot;.
var msg_desc = "威尼托大区帕多瓦市曾出现混乱，酒吧和餐馆人群四散，火车站则挤满了提着行李箱，戴着口罩和手套的民众。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Pardova, Vinito, was in turmoil, bars and restaurants were scattered, and train stations were crowded with people with suitcases, masks, and gloves.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
