北京中小微企业2至6月“三险”缴费全部免征。
Beijing MSMEs in February to June "three risks" fees are free of charge.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
3月8日，北京市人力资源和社会保障局、市财政局、市税务局联合发布《关于做好北京市阶段性减免企业社会保险费工作的通知》，明确自今年2月起，本市阶段性减免企业基本养老保险、失业保险和工伤保险单位缴费部分。
On March 8, the Beijing Municipal Bureau of Human Resources and Social Security, the Municipal Finance Bureau and the Municipal Tax Bureau jointly issued the Notice Concerning the Work of Beijing Municipality in Periodical Relief of Social Insurance Premiums, making it clear that since February this year, the city has gradually exempted enterprises from basic old-age insurance, unemployment insurance and industrial injury insurance.
这一政策将惠及全部参保单位（不包括机关事业单位），预计全年将减负500多亿元。
The policy will benefit all participating institutions (excluding government agencies and institutions) and is expected to lose more than 50 billion yuan over the course of the year.
市社保中心同时印发了《关于阶段性减免三项社会保险费和办理缓缴有关事项的通知》，明确了办理流程。
At the same time, the Municipal Social Security Center issued the Circular on the Periodic Relief of Three Social Insurance Premiums and the Handling of Matters Related to Deferment, clarifying the processing procedure.
大型企业三险单位缴费减半对本次国家制定出台的社会保险费用阶段性减免政策，本市将顶格执行。
Large enterprises three risk unit fees in half this national policy of social insurance premiums staged relief, the city will be the top implementation.
在2020年2月至4月，对大型企业、民办非企业单位、社会团体等各类社会组织三项社会保险单位缴费部分，均减半征收。
Between February and April 2020, contributions to three social insurance units of large-scale enterprises, private non-enterprise units and social organizations will be collected in half.
也就是养老保险、失业保险的单位缴费比例，分别由16%调整为8%，以及由0.8%调整为0.4%；工伤保险单位缴费比例按照现行费率的50%计算。
That is, the percentage of unit contributions for old-age insurance and unemployment insurance has been adjusted from 16 per cent to 8 per cent and 0.8 per cent to 0.4 per cent, respectively; the rate for industrial injury insurance units is calculated at 50 per cent of the current rate.
三项社保费用个人缴费部分不减。
The three social security contributions are non-deductible.
2020年2月至6月，对中小微企业（包括以单位形式参保的个体工商户）和其他特殊类型单位，三项社会保险的单位缴费部分将全部免征，个人缴费部分不免。
From February to June 2020, MSMEs (including self-employed businesses insured as units) and other special types of units will be exempted from all contributions to the three branches of social insurance, with individual contributions being unavoidable.
需要提醒大家，减免三项社会保险单位缴费部分的单位或人员中，不包括机关事业单位（含参加企业基本养老保险的单位），以及以个人身份参保的个体工商户和灵活就业人员。
It should be recalled that the units or personnel that have reduced or exempted the contributions of the three social insurance units do not include government organs and institutions (including units participating in the basic old-age insurance of enterprises), individual businesses and flexible employees who are insured in their personal capacity.
这三类单位（人员）应缴社保费将按照正常的业务流程扣缴。
The social security contributions payable by these three groups of units (personnel) will be withheld in accordance with normal business processes.
其中，因春节假期调整和疫情影响，未成功扣缴1月社保费的灵活就业人员（包含享受社会保险补贴的灵活就业人员），无须申请，均可以延长至3月底缴费。
Among them, flexible employees (including those with social security benefits) who did not successfully withhold their January social security contributions, due to the adjustment of the Spring Festival and the impact of the epidemic, can extend their contributions until the end of March without applying.
2019年12月至2020年2月期间出现因缴费不成功导致缴费中断的人员，可以补缴，不视为断缴。
Persons whose contributions were interrupted between December 2019 and February 2020 as a result of unsuccessful payments may be made up and shall not be considered as unpaid.
企业类型划分无需用人单位操作据了解，为提升服务效率，符合条件的企业无需申请，自动享受减免政策。
It is understood that in order to improve the efficiency of service, eligible enterprises do not have to apply for automatic relief policy.
市人力资源社会保障局和市财政局、市税务局将协作配合，以统计和税务数据为依据，共同做好企业类型划分工作。
The Municipal Human Resources Social Security Bureau, the Municipal Finance Bureau and the Municipal Tax Bureau will coordinate and work together to classify enterprises according to statistics and tax data.
部分无法划型的企业，将依据参保人员等指标，结合行业特点进行类型划分，无须企业进行操作。
Part of the enterprises can not be zoned, according to the indicators such as the insured personnel, combined with the characteristics of the industry classification, do not need to operate enterprises.
企业可于3月9日起通过北京市社会保险网上服务平台查询适用减免政策的情况。
From March 9, enterprises can inquire about the application of the relief policy through the Beijing Social Insurance Online Service Platform.
如果对划型结果有异议，应在3月底前向所属区社保经办机构提出变更申请，同时提交2019年本单位所属行业、营业收入、资产总额、2019年12月实际从业人数等材料，按规定进行复核确认。
If you disagree with the result of the zoning, you should apply for change to the social security agency of your district by the end of March, together with the relevant materials such as industry, business income, total assets and actual number of employees in December 2019.
原则上，参保企业类型一旦划定，政策执行期间不做变动。
In principle, once the types of insured enterprises are defined, the policy implementation period will not be changed.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
北京中小微企业2至6月“三险”缴费全部免征。
Beijing MSMEs in February to June "three risks" fees are free of charge.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "北京中小微企业2至6月“三险”缴费全部免征";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; from February to June.
var msg_desc = "自今年2月起，北京市阶段性减免企业基本养老保险、失业保险和工伤保险单位缴费部分。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Since February, Beijing has phased out basic old-age insurance, unemployment insurance, and industrial injury insurance premiums for companies.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
