首都及32州已“沦陷”，特朗普：我一点都不担心，集会照办。
The capital and 32 states have "fallen." Trump: I'm not worried at all. The rally does.
潘金花。
Pan Jinhua.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
2月29日，特朗普出席“保守派政治行动大会”。
On February 29, Trump attended the "Congress of Conservative Political Action."
图片来源：CPAC/Twitter记者 | 潘金花“ “我一点都不担心。
Source: CPAC / Twitter at & nbsp; & # 45; Pan "I'm not worried at all.
”美国总统特朗普告诉记者，自己不会因为新冠肺炎疫情而取消政治集会。
US President Trump told reporters that he would not cancel a political rally over the outbreak of pneumonia.
要”“我一点都不担心。
"" I'm not worried at all.
”周六（7日），正与巴西总统博索纳罗在海湖庄园会面的美国总统特朗普告诉记者，自己不会因为新冠肺炎疫情而取消政治集会。
On Saturday, US President Donald Trump, who was meeting Brazilian President Basorro at Lake Hills, told reporters he would not cancel a political rally because of the outbreak.
他说，“我们会举行大量集会，至于病毒这方面，我们做得很好，我们干得很出色。
"We're going to have a lot of meetings," he said. "As for the virus, we did a good job.
”然而从当天的疫情形势来看，尽管与韩国、意大利、伊朗等国相比，美国的确诊病例数仍相对较少，但疫情显然已呈现全面扩散之势，32个州及华盛顿特区均已出现病例。
However, given the situation on the day, while the number of confirmed cases in the United States remains relatively small compared to countries such as South Korea, Italy and Iran, it is clear that the epidemic is spreading across the board, with 32 states and Washington, D.C.
据人民日报消息，根据美国疾病控制与预防中心，以及各州公共卫生部门发布的统计数字，截至美东时间3月7日晚6点（北京时间8日早7点），全美共报告新冠病毒检测呈阳性445例，死亡19例，当天新增确诊病例95例，死亡病例5例。
According to statistics released by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and state public health departments, 445 new cases and 19 deaths were reported nationwide on March 7, 2007 (7: 00 a.m. Beijing time), with 95 new confirmed cases and 5 deaths reported that day, according to the People's Daily.
据美国有线电视新闻网（CNN）当晚报道，目前，疫情分布在全美32个州以及华盛顿哥伦比亚特区。
CNN reported that night that the epidemic is now spreading across 32 states and Washington, D.C.
在445例病例中，有375例为本土病例，3例为撤侨、46例为“钻石公主”号邮轮乘客，还有21例来自目前徘徊在加州海岸的“至尊公主”号邮轮。
Of the 445 cases, 375 were homegrown, 3 were evacuated, 46 were passengers on board the Diamond Princess and 21 were from the current cruise ship, The Supreme Princess, which is now adrift on the California coast.
而在特朗普表示“自己不担心”之前，他本人曾一度距离感染病例非常近。
And, before Trump said that he was "not worried," he himself had been very close to the infection.
美国保守联盟（ACU）7日宣布，上周在马里兰州举行的“保守派政治行动大会”（CPAC）的一名与会者新冠病毒检测呈阳性，特朗普、彭斯等官员都曾出席此次大会。
An American Conservative Union (ACU) announced Thursday that a participant in last week's Conservative Political Action Congress (CPAC) in Maryland, which was attended by officials including Trump and Burns, tested positive for the virus.
但ACU表示，总统、副总统和此人没有接触，他们也没有参加在主会场的活动。
ACU stated, however, that the President, the Vice-President had no contact with him and that they did not attend the main venue.
ACU称，特朗普政府已经知悉这一情况。
According to ACU, the Trump administration is aware of this.
白宫在7日的声明中也确认了这一消息，表示目前没有迹象表明，总统和副总统曾与该与会者会面或接近，总统的医生和特勤局一直在与白宫工作人员及各机构密切合作，采取一切预防措施确保“第一家庭”和整个白宫的安全和健康。
The White House confirmed the news in a statement on the 7th, said there are no signs that the President and Vice-President met or close to the meeting, the President's doctors and Secret Service has been working closely with White House staff and agencies to take every precaution to ensure the safety and health of the "First Family" and the White House as a whole.
ACU声明 来源：Twitter据了解，ACU是美国成立时间最为长久的右翼游说组织，在保守势力中拥有极大的影响力。
According to Twitter, ACU is the oldest right-wing lobby organization in the United States and has a great deal of clout among conservatives.
历史上，里根、乔治·布什都参加过该组织自1974年起举办的行动大会。
Historically, Reagan and George Bush participated in the organization's action congresses since 1974.
去年，该大会的参与人数超1.9万人。
Last year, the Congress was attended by more than 19,000 people.
今年的大会在2月26日开幕，彭斯、国务卿蓬佩奥、卫生部长阿扎、交通部长赵小兰等人均曾出席活动，特朗普则是在最后一天（29日）于主会场发表演讲。
This year's General Assembly opened on February 26, with Peng Si, Secretary of State Pompey, Health Minister Azar, and Transport Minister Zhao Xiaolan attending the event, while Trump spoke on the last day (29) at the main venue.
目前，ACU尚未透露确诊感染的与会者参加了哪一天的会议，也没有公布今年的参会人数规模，仅表示“暴露发生在会议开始前”， 新泽西州的医院检测并收治了该名患者。
At present, ACU has not revealed the date of the meeting of the participants, nor the size of the number of participants this year, but only that "the exposure took place before the start of the meeting," the New Jersey hospital tested and admitted the patient.
这已经不是美国政府高级官员首次暴露在新冠肺炎感染风险之中。
It is not the first time a senior administration official has been exposed to the risk of infection.
上周，美国以色列公共事务委员会（AIPAC）在纽约举行了为期3天的政策年会。
Last week, the American Public Service Commission (AIPAC) held its three-day annual policy meeting in New York.
7日，AIPAC发布声明说，已证实有2名与会者确诊感染新冠病毒。
On 7 July, AIPAC issued a statement stating that two participants had been confirmed to be infected with the new crown virus.
尽管目前总计参加年会的人数不明，但该年会往年的规模均接近2万人次，而今年，彭斯、蓬佩奥以及参议院两党领袖均受邀出席。
Although the total number of people attending the annual meeting is unknown, the annual meeting has reached nearly 20,000 in previous years, and this year the leaders of Peng Si, Pompeio and the Senate have been invited to attend.
针对可能感染的风险，彭斯7日在接受福克斯新闻频道采访时表示，“如果我出现了症状，并知道和新冠肺炎患者接触过，会去接受检测。
"If I have symptoms and know I have been in contact with someone with pneumonia, I will be tested," Burns told Fox News on Tuesday.
”目前，彭斯全权负责美国的疫情应对工作。
"Mr. Burns has full authority over the U.S. epidemic.
他仍强调，对于美国普通民众而言，感染新冠肺炎病毒几率依旧很低，因此健康的美国人不需要买口罩，也用不着囤积水和食物。
Still, he stressed, the rate of infection with the new crown pneumonia virus remains low for the average American, so healthy Americans don't need to buy masks and hoard water and food.
不过，现如今美国各地已是“严阵以待”，华盛顿州、佛罗里达州、加利福尼亚州、马里兰州、纽约州已先后进入紧急状态。
Today, however, states of emergency are in place across the country, with Washington, Florida, California, Maryland and New York states in succession.
其中，华盛顿州的疫情最为严重，截至美东时间7日晚已有至少103例确诊病例，死亡病例16例，纽约州也有89例确诊，单日新增44例。
Washington state was the worst hit, with at least 103 confirmed cases and 16 deaths by the night of July 7, and 89 new cases were confirmed in New York state, up from 44 a day.
与此同时，美国各地的确诊病例数仍在不断增加，覆盖范围也越来越广。
At the same time, the number of confirmed cases across the United States continues to grow, as does the scope of coverage.
首都华盛顿特区市长穆丽尔·鲍泽7日晚宣布，该市当天已出现2例新冠肺炎病例，1人为50多岁的本地男性，暂未发现国际旅行和相关接触史，另1人为来自尼日利亚的游客，曾在华盛顿特区逗留，之后前往马里兰州并在当地确诊，目前正在该州接受治疗。
Two new cases of pneumonia, one of a 50-year-old native male, were reported in Washington, D.C., on Thursday night, while one visitor from Nigeria, who had stayed in Washington, D.C., before traveling to Maryland where she was confirmed, said the city had two new cases of pneumonia, a 50-year-old man.
美国防部发言人乔纳森·霍夫曼当天则透露，一名被派往维吉尼亚州贝尔沃堡的美国海军陆战队员新冠病毒检测呈阳性，该队员近期曾因公出国，目前正在住院治疗。
Jonathan Hoffman, a spokesman for the department, said on the same day that a U.S. Marine posted to Fort Bellow, Virginia, tested positive for the virus and was hospitalized after a recent trip abroad on business.
据报道，这是首例驻扎美国本土的美军新冠病毒检测呈阳性病例。
It is reported that this is the first U. S. mainland-based U. S. troops tested positive for the new crown virus.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
首都及32州已“沦陷”，特朗普：我一点都不担心，集会照办。
The capital and 32 states have "fallen." Trump: I'm not worried at all. The rally does.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "首都及32州已“沦陷”，特朗普：我一点都不担心，集会照办";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Trump: I wasn't worried at all.
var msg_desc = "“至于病毒这方面，我们做得很好，我们干得很出色。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "As for the virus, we did a good job, and we did it well.
”";。
";;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
