NBA：各球队需做好空场比赛的准备。
NBA: Teams need to be prepared for an open field game.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国“ NBA已经提醒各球队需要准备应急预案——仅在必要人员在场的情况下进行比赛。
http: / / www.youtheme.cnThe NBA has reminded teams of the need to prepare contingency plans to compete only in the presence of essential personnel.
”虎扑篮球3月7日消息，据NBA记者Shams Charania报道，消息人士透露，联盟已经向各支球队发放了备忘录，并在备忘录中写道：“由于新型冠状肺炎疫情影响，球队需要做好在空场的情况下比赛的做准备，球场内会只留下必要的工作人员。
"The league has issued a memo to all teams, saying:" With the new outbreak of coronary pneumonia, the team needs to be ready to play in a vacuum, leaving only the necessary staff on the pitch, "according to NBA correspondent Shams Charania.
”联盟近期一直在给各球队发放备忘录，目的是为了应对新型冠状肺炎疫情的发展。
The league has been issuing memoranda to teams recently in response to the development of a new outbreak of coronary pneumonia.
根据纽约时报记者Marc Stein的报道，推迟或取消比赛会是联盟办公室的决定，但是NBA已经提醒球队需要准备应急预案——仅在必要人员在场的情况下进行比赛。
According to New York Times reporter Marc Stein, postponing or cancelling the game would be the league's decision, but the NBA has reminded the team of the need to prepare for a contingency plan - only to play in the presence of the necessary people.
在北京时间3月3日，联盟向球队发放了首个新冠备忘录，球员们应该采取与球迷碰拳而非击掌的方式进行互动，并且避免接受诸如笔、篮球、球衣等物品进行签名。
The league handed out its first new title on March 3, saying players should interact by punching rather than giving fives to fans and avoid accepting signatures on items such as pens, basketballs and jerseys.
NBA球队管理层和联盟办公室表达的更大担忧包括基于新型冠状病毒疫情发展的速度，选秀前的联合试训、现场试训、海外考察球员活动可能都会被限制规模甚至取消。
Greater concerns expressed by NBA management and the NBA Office include that the pace of development of the new coronavirus epidemic could limit or even eliminate pre-draft trials, on-site trials, and overseas visits to players.
据一支球队的医疗人员透露，若一位NBA球员感染新型冠状病毒预计将会缺席两周。
An NBA player is expected to be out for two weeks if he is infected with the new coronavirus, according to a team's medical staff.
3月8日消息，联盟消息人士透露，各NBA球队的队医和训练师将会在美国当地时间周一开会讨论下一步应对新冠病毒的措施。
NBA team doctors and trainers will meet Monday (Monday) to discuss the next steps in the fight against the new cap virus, Alliance sources said.
联盟下发给球队的最新备忘录要求球队在周二前将以下工作落实到位：和传染病专家进行会面、确保新冠病毒的检测设施、对和球员进行接触的球队和场馆工作人员进行限制。
The latest league memo requires the team to put in place by Tuesday meetings with infectious disease experts, securing testing facilities for the new cap virus, and limiting the number of teams and stadiums who come into contact with players.
此外，联盟要求各球队在周二的时候必须为所有球员和职员发放消毒剂，并建议他们勤洗手。
The league also required teams to hand out disinfectants to all players and staff on Tuesday and advised them to wash their hands regularly.
此前，联盟曾下发备忘录，由于新冠疫情，各球队需做好空场比赛的备忘录。
Earlier, the league issued a memorandum, due to the new crown outbreak, the teams need to do a good memorandum of the game.
也正考虑限制媒体人员进入更衣室进行采访。
Restrictions on media access to the dressing room for interviews are also being considered.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
NBA：各球队需做好空场比赛的准备。
NBA: Teams need to be prepared for an open field game.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "NBA：各球队需做好空场比赛的准备";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; NBA: Every team needed to prepare for and compete in an empty field.
var msg_desc = "NBA已经提醒球队需要准备应急预案——仅在必要人员在场的情况下进行比赛​。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; The NBA has reminded its team of the need to prepare contingency plans - to play the game solely in the presence of the necessary people.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
