供需两端入手，破解口罩困局。
Start at both ends of the supply chain.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 晚点LatePost。
The following article comes from the late LatePost.
Author 笪兴董博琳许加凤。
An oversize calendar named Dong Boolin Xu Jiafeng.
晚点LatePost。
Late LatePost.
晚一点，好一点。
Later. Better.
这是《财经》杂志与小晚团队联合推出的新品牌。
This is Caijing magazine and the evening team jointly launched the new brand.
全部一手采访，没有二手信息。
All hands-on interviews, no second-hand information.
做你最信任的商业新闻媒体。
Be the business press you trust most.
。
.
_随着2月10日全国陆续复工，需要在需求和供给端采取必要调控手段，避免发生更严重的口罩紧缺问题_文 |笪兴 董博琳 许加凤为了缓解武汉及整个湖北的医疗物资短缺，各级政府、慈善机构和爱心人士正努力从全中国甚至全世界筹集医疗物资并运往疫区。
As work resumes nationwide on 10 February, the necessary controls need to be put in place on both the demand and supply sides to avoid a more severe shortage of masks. To ease the shortage of medical supplies in Wuhan and throughout Hubei, governments, charities and loving people at all levels are trying to raise medical supplies and ship them to affected areas throughout China and even the world.
但时至今日，一些医疗物资依然紧缺，其中，口罩大约是所有前线医疗耗材中极为紧缺的一种物资。
But to this day, some medical supplies remain in short supply, including masks, which are an extremely scarce commodity for all frontline medical supplies.
从现有供需关系看，在接下来一段时间内，口罩都是一种紧缺物资。
From the current relationship between supply and demand, the next period of time, masks are a shortage of supplies.
为什么口罩会比包括防护服在内的其他重要医疗用品都更加紧缺？毕竟防护服的产能看起来更小，似乎会更紧缺。
Why are respirators more scarce than other vital medical supplies, including protective clothing, which looks smaller and seems to be in more short supply.
但在实际抗击疫情过程中，多数普通民众并不需要防护服，不会和医护人员在需求上产生冲突。
But in the actual fight against the epidemic, most ordinary people do not need protective clothing, and do not conflict with the needs of medical personnel.
口罩则是在疫情蔓延情况下每个人的日常所需，而且春节后复工在即，2月10日之后，随着全国各地陆续复工，亿万普通民众的口罩消耗量只会更大。
Mask masks are a daily necessity for everyone as the epidemic spreads, and work is expected to resume shortly after the Spring Festival. After February 10, hundreds of millions of ordinary people will consume even more masks as work resumes across the country.
因此，应当考虑从需求和供给端采取必要的调控手段，以名发生更严重的口罩紧缺问题。
Consideration should therefore be given to taking the necessary regulatory measures on both the demand and supply sides to address the more acute problem of the shortage of face masks by name.
供给端：最乐观估计中国每天可获得口罩2000万个口罩为什么如此紧缺？一个简单的算术题：供给和需求。
Supply side: Most optimistically estimate why 20 million masks are so scarce every day in China? A simple arithmetic problem: supply and demand.
根据工信部披露的数据，中国最大口罩产能是每天2000万个，而中国的口罩产能是全世界的一半，也就是全世界除中国以外还有每天2000万个的产能。
According to the ministry, China has the largest mask-production capacity of 20 million a day, compared with half the world's capacity for masks, which is 20 million a day in addition to China.
先看国内。
Look at home first.
同样是根据工信部的数据，中国口罩的产能在1月29日是每天800万个（相当于40%产能利用率），2月2日披露已经达到每天1200万个（相当于60%产能利用率），为什么只有这么低的产能利用率？除了原材料供给、运输物流等问题以外，工人不够应该是最大的问题。
Also according to the Ministry of Industry and Communications, the capacity of Chinese masks was 8 million per day on January 29 (40% capacity utilization), 12 million per day on February 2 (60% capacity utilization).
为什么工人不够？第一，目前本身就是新冠病毒的传播期，工人也是人，本身并不倾向于承担感染风险外出工作；第二，目前大部分省份的交通已经受到高度管制，已经回到家中的工人即使想要回到工厂也面临很大的现实阻碍。
First, workers are human and do not themselves tend to work outside the home; secondly, transportation in most provinces is already highly regulated and workers who have returned home face significant practical obstacles if they want to return to their factories.
根据媒体报道，在很多地方即使某些企业已经开到平常五倍的日薪（700-800元以上），也无法召集足够的工人回厂生产。
According to media reports, in many places, even though some businesses are already making five times the usual daily wage (700-800 yuan or more), they are unable to muster enough workers to return to work.
据多家媒体报道，目前政府已经接管全国主要达标医用防护物资的工厂和产能，我们初步假设政府可以在几天之内部分解决这个产能利用率的问题（具体如何解决，我们之后分析），在2月份达到每天1500万个口罩的产能。
Now that the government has taken over most of the nation's factories and production capacity that meet major targets for medical protection, we tentatively assume that the government can partially address this capacity utilization problem in a matter of days (see article), reaching a capacity of 15 million masks per day in February.
再看国外。
And look abroad.
这里的问题是，存在于国外的每天2000万口罩的产能，我们如何最大化的利用。
The question here is how can we maximize the capacity of the 20 million masks that exist abroad.
此次新冠疫情被世界卫生组织（WHO）列为PHEIC（国际关注的突发公共卫生事件）之后，已经有部分国家停止对中国出口口罩，一个原因是这些国家本身也出现了输入性的新冠疫情，国内本身口罩的需求暴增，另一个原因则是WHO的PHEIC对人员往来、国际贸易和清关手续产生的流程性影响。
Some countries have stopped exporting masks to China since the World Health Organization classified the new outbreak as a public health emergency of international concern, in part because of imported new crowns, surging demand for their own masks, and because of the process impact of WHO's PHEIC on personnel movements, international trade, and customs clearance.
虽然根据中国海关总署披露，在过去一周中国从全世界进口了5600多万个口罩（平均每天800万个），但是这些进口更多是采购现有库存，而不是新产能。
While China's General Administration of Customs disclosed that it imported more than 56 million face masks from around the world in the past week (an average of 8 million per day), these imports were more about purchasing existing stocks than about new capacity.
所以在可预见的未来，中国也将很难完全利用到海外的2000万口罩的日产能。
So for the foreseeable future, it will be hard for China to take full advantage of its 20 million masks overseas.
最乐观的估计，假设可以实现每天从海外进口500万个口罩，加上国内的1500万个，中国接下来可以新获得的口罩供给是每天2000万个。
At its best, assuming that 5 million masks could be imported from abroad every day, plus 15 million in China, the next supply would be 20 million new masks a day.
如果把这个乐观情境打个折，实际可能只有1000-1500万个，至少在2月份是这样。
If this optimistic scenario is discounted, it could actually be between 10 and 15 million, at least in February.
需求端：保守估计中国每天消耗口罩1000-1500万个我们把对口罩的需求分为三类：医护人员、“国计民生”维持人员（警务、物流、基础设施等关乎国计民生行业的人员）、普通民众。
Demand side: Conservative estimates suggest that China consumes 10-15 million face masks every day. There are three types of respirators: medical staff, people working in the "national economy" (police, logistics, infrastructure, etc.), and the general public.
第一，医护人员。
First, medical staff.
根据武汉市长的说法，武汉目前有6万医护人员，平均每人每天5个口罩，也就是每天30万口罩的需求。
Wuhan has 60,000 medical personnel, an average of five masks per person per day, or 300,000 face masks per day, according to Wuhan city chief.
根据人口比例，湖北其他地区应该有30万左右目前在工作的医护人员，假设每人每天3个口罩，也就是接近100万个口罩。
Depending on the population, there should be about 300,000 workers in other parts of Hubei province, assuming three masks per person per day, or close to one million masks.
同样根据人口比例，全国其他地区假设有400-700万左右目前在工作的医护人员，平均每人每天0.5个口罩，也就是200-350万个口罩。
Similarly, depending on the proportion of the population, the rest of the country is assumed to have between 4 million and 7 million health-care workers currently working, an average of 0.5 masks per person per day, or 2-3.5 million masks.
武汉的30万加湖北其他地区的100万加全国其他省的200-350万，一共400-500万左右的口罩日消耗。
Wuhan's 300,000 plus 1 million in other parts of Hubei plus 2-3.5 million in other provinces of the country, total daily consumption of around 4-5 million masks.
第二，“国计民生”维持人员。
Second, maintain the people's livelihood.
这部分人员包括警察、市政管理、物流管理、交通枢纽管理、水电煤电信等基础设施的管理、保障民生的零售行业等“关系国计民生”的关键岗位。
They include such key posts as police, municipal administration, logistics management, management of transportation hubs, management of infrastructure such as hydropower coal and telecommunications, and retail trade to ensure people's livelihood.
假设全国有1000万人（相当于总人口的1%以下）需要每天工作，且每三天用1个口罩，那就是每天300-400万左右的口罩日消耗。
Assuming that 10 million people (less than 1 per cent of the population) work every day and use one mask every three days, about 3-4 million masks are consumed daily.
第三，普通民众。
Third, ordinary people.
在大数上很简单，全国13亿人，除了医护和市政维持岗位上的人以外，目前大部分普通人都在家里很少出门。
In most cases, the country's 1.3 billion people, with the exception of those in health-care and municipal maintenance jobs, are now largely at home.
我们极端保守一下，假设全国人民中只有十分之一的人响应了国家的号召戴口罩（大部分农村地区的人不戴口罩或戴布口罩），也就是1.3亿人，平均每户3个人，也就是4000万户人在用口罩，平均每户人每7-10天只消耗一个口罩，也意味着每天400-600万个口罩的消耗量。
We are extremely conservative, assuming that only one in 10 people in the country responds to the country's call to wear masks (most people in rural areas do not wear masks or masks), that is, 130 million people. On average, three people, or 40 million households, consume only one mask every 7-10 days per household, and 4-6 million masks per day.
以上推算比较粗糙，没有太严密的数据支持。
The above calculation is rather rough, not too tight data support.
但是在疫情、民情、供需每天都在变化的情况下，精确计算以上数字也是非常之难。
But with epidemics, demographics, and supply and demand changing on a daily basis, it is difficult to calculate these numbers precisely.
如果我们基于这个简单的推算，目前每天中国总口罩消耗量是：医护人员的每天400-500万 + 市政维持人员的300-400万 + 普通民众的400-600万 = 1000-1500万。
If we base this simple calculation, the current total daily consumption of masks in China is 4-5 million per day for medical staff + 3-4 million for municipal maintenance staff + 4-6 million for the general population = 10-15 million.
总结以上的分析，如果我们对照全国口罩的供给（每天1000-1500万）和需求（每天1000-1500万），会发现口罩的确处于一个“紧平衡”状态，而且由于生产和物流周期的存在，在很多局部地区，尤其是疫情严重地区中医疗资源快速消耗的医院和卫生站，很可能处于口罩严重供不应求的情况。
Summarizing the above analysis, if we compare the supply (10-15 million per day) and demand (10-15 million per day) of national masks, we find that masks are indeed in a "tight equilibrium" state and that hospitals and health posts that consume rapidly medical resources in many areas, especially those with severe epidemics, are likely to be in serious need of masks.
以上一切分析都基于一个现实：大部分普通民众还在家里，很少出门。
All this analysis is based on the reality that most ordinary people are still at home and rarely go out.
供需平衡新拐点：2月10日开始全国陆续复工在2月10日之后，大部分省份地区都将复工（目前21个省份已经公布计划，其中20省的复工时间在2月10日之后），而在那个时间点上，口罩供需平衡中一个最重要的因素就将被打破。
New Inflection Points for Supply and Demand Balance: Starting Feb. 10, Work Resumes Across the Nation After February 10, most provinces will resume work (21 provinces have announced plans, 20 of which are back to work after February 10), at which point one of the most important factors in the balance between supply and demand for masks will be broken.
全国13亿人，即使进行最保守的假设，百分之十，即1.3亿人响应号召戴口罩，而且这些人都非常节省，更换口罩的频率非常低，假设每人每3天只消耗一个口罩，这也意味着普通人每天的口罩消耗是4000万个。
Of the country's 1.3 billion people, even under the most conservative assumptions, 10 per cent, or 130 million people, answered the call to wear masks, and they are very economical. The very low frequency of mask replacement, assuming that everyone consumes only one mask every three days, means that the average person consumes 40 million masks per day.
单单这个数字，尚不满足医护人员的需求，就已经超过了我们总共能达到的口罩日产能（1000-1500万个）。
This number alone, which does not meet the needs of medical staff, exceeds our total capacity of 10-15 million masks per day.
这意味着不久之后，我们将陷入口罩的系统性供需不足局面。
This means that soon we will be caught between systemic supply and demand shortages of masks.
如何破局？为了解决口罩紧缺的问题，我们必须从供给和需求这两方面寻求可能的突破口。
To solve the problem of the shortage of masks, we must seek the possible breakthrough from both the supply and demand sides.
供给端突破口：政府介入、财政补贴、人员补充鉴于目前政府已经接管全国大部分的口罩产能，所以用价格信号指导生产的市场手段已经不存在了，这是一个理解目前中国口罩供给局势的大前提。
Supply-side breakthrough: government involvement, financial subsidies, personnel complement Given that the government has now taken over most of the country's mask production capacity, the use of price signals to guide production is no longer the market, a prerequisite for understanding the current situation in China's supply of masks.
在正常的市场环境下，政府与市场之手谁更有效似乎不需要辩论。
In a normal market environment, it does not seem necessary to debate who is more effective than the government and the market.
但是在疫情快速蔓延的现状下，政府已经改变了大量的生产要素的特性：比如交通，大部分疫情严重的省市已经封城或半封城，比如复工，根据国家规定，大部分企业需要延迟复工。
But, given the rapid spread of the epidemic, the government has changed the nature of many factors of production: transportation, for example, has been closed or semi-closed in most of the worst-hit provinces and cities.
在这种情况下，如果政府不直接介入，市场之手可能需要几天或几周时间才能够找到绕开这些限制而刺激生产的手段，而疫区的人命却是等不起的，所以政府的快速介入是必然之举。
In such cases, without direct government involvement, it may take days or weeks for the hands of the market to find the means to bypass these restrictions and stimulate production, while lives in affected areas cannot be kept waiting, so quick government intervention is inevitable.
之后政府的目标也就非常明确：以尽快的速度恢复和扩大生产。
The government's goal was then clear: to restore and expand production as quickly as possible.
根据财政部披露，截止1月29日，各级财政已经累计投入了接近273亿资金确保疫情防控经费需要，这其中应该有一部分是直接或间接地用于补贴医疗用品包括口罩的生产。
According to the Ministry of Finance, as of January 29, nearly 27.3 billion yuan had been invested in the prevention and control of the epidemic, some of which should be used directly or indirectly to subsidize the production of medical supplies, including masks.
所以，政府的介入对于保证口罩供给是好事，至少在资金方面，政府不计成本的投入可以控制短期市场失灵的可能风险。
So government involvement is good for the supply of masks, at least in terms of money, where the government's reckless spending can limit the risk of short-term market failure.
下一个重要的问题是：政府除了投入资金以外，能否真正解决口罩供给的瓶颈问题？据媒体报道，医用口罩的部分原料近期已涨价40%甚至更多，假设原材料涨价可以被财政资金克服，那么工人的紧缺是否可以解决？实际上，在疫情愈加严重的情景下，工人越不倾向于回到工厂上班。
The next big question is whether the government can really solve the bottleneck in mask supply other than by investing in them.According to media reports, some of the ingredients for medical masks have recently increased by 40% or more.
在极端情况下，如果出门感染病毒的可能性是100%，那么一定不会有任何人出门工作；如果可能性是50%，可能只有少数非常急需赚钱的人出门工作。
In extreme cases, if the probability of going out and contracting the virus is 100 per cent, no one will ever go out to work; if the probability is 50 per cent, only a few very needy people may go out to work.
当然，我们可以举一些“弃小家保大家”的个别案例，但这些毕竟是个例。
Of course, we can cite a few individual cases of "abandoning the family and protecting everyone," but these are the only ones.
在全国3万家口罩企业和2000万口罩产能的大数考量下，工人的紧缺程度一定是和疫情的严重度之间呈正相关。
Given the capacity of 30, 000 mask companies and 20 million face masks across the country, there must be a positive correlation between worker shortages and the severity of the outbreak.
为此，政府可以做或已经在做如下几件事：第一，用财政资金补贴额外工资以吸引工人。
To that end, the Government can do, or is already doing, the following: First, subsidize extra wages with financial resources to attract workers.
这个相信在很多地方已经开始实行，根据澎湃的报道，在仙桃，“政府部门会把成本付给工厂，不会让我们吃亏”。
This belief has begun to be practiced in many places, according to the roar of reports in the peach, "the government will pay the cost to the factory, will not let us lose."
第二，政府直接派人补充参与生产。
Second, the Government directly adds personnel to the production process.
在武汉、上海、衢州，都能看到公务员、城管和志愿者直接参与口罩生产的新闻。
In Wuhan, Shanghai and Quzhou, you can see the news that civil servants, city administrators and volunteers are directly involved in the production of masks.
第一种手段的本质是通过提高激励，吸引劳动力，偏市场化，而第二种手段的本质是政府直接介入，偏计划性。
The nature of the first means is to increase incentives, attract labor, partial marketization, while the nature of the second means is direct government involvement, partial planning.
如果以上两种手段都无法补充足够多的劳动力，我们是否有第三种手段？比如让武警或军队，或者其他国家可直接派遣的人员，直接参与生产，或者以更系统性的动员方式组织人力参与各地的口罩生产。
If neither of these measures can fill enough manpower, do we have a third option, such as having the armed forces or the army, or personnel directly dispatched by other countries, directly involved in production, or organizing human involvement in the production of masks in various locations in a more systematic way?
这样可以保证更快、更稳定的劳动力供给。
This would ensure a faster and more stable supply of labour.
需求端突破口：提高物流、减少人流需求端的前提是，鉴于国内目前的口罩产能基本被政府接管，出厂的口罩几乎都会被政府直接征用，口罩的分配流向已经不会遵循市场规律和价格规律的指导了，政府一定会将大部分口罩输往疫区湖北，留给非疫区的口罩数量一定会被压到最低。
Demand side breakthrough: improve logistics, reduce the demand side of the demand side of the premise that, given that the current production capacity of masks are basically government-owned, almost all the factory masks will be directly requisitioned by the government, the distribution of masks will no longer follow market rules and price guidelines, the government will certainly to epidemic areas Hubei, the number of non-epidemic areas will be kept to a minimum.
在这种情况下，即使口罩的零售价格放开，除了一些极少的产能以外，也不会有口罩通过市场渠道流入非疫区。
In such cases, even if the retail price of a mask is liberalized, no mask will enter the non-affected area through market channels, except for some minimal production capacity.
所以全国大部分地区的口罩供给一定将会维持非常紧张的局面。
So the supply of masks in most parts of the country is bound to remain very tight.
我们能够做出这样的推算，各地卫健系统当然也能这样推算。
We can make such extrapolation, of course, health systems everywhere can be extrapolated as well.
因此在过去几天，一些媒体上开始有专家呼吁，普通民众不需要带口罩或者频繁更换口罩。
So in the past few days, some media outlets have begun to call for ordinary people not to wear masks or change them frequently.
这显然是为了降低普通民众对口罩的需求，至少是心理上的需求。
This is apparently intended to reduce the general population's need for masks, at least psychologically.
但是，如果将普通民众对口罩的采购需求分解为实际需求加上心理成分。
However, if the general population of the purchase of masks needs to be broken down into actual demand plus psychological components.
专家的呼吁可以在一定程度上降低心理成分，但是很难改变实际需求。
The experts' call may reduce the psychological component to some extent, but it is difficult to change the real demand.
简单来说，一个已经复工的城市白领在地铁、公交和办公室还是需要戴口罩，也必须戴口罩，这个非常实际的使用需求并不会减少。
Simply put, a white-collar urban worker who has returned to work still needs masks and masks on the subway, public transport and offices, a very real need that will not diminish.
同时，政府也希望人们在这些公共场合尽可能多戴口罩，毕竟现在大部分省份的传染源还没有完全切除，没有人可以担负继续发生的聚集性传播的风险。
At the same time, the government wants people to wear as many masks as possible in these public places. After all, most provinces are not yet fully infected and no one can afford the risk of continued sexual transmission.
在这个角度上说，实际需求也是“必须需求“。
In this sense, actual demand is also a "necessity."
如何减少对口罩的实际需求？有两个可能的路径。
How to reduce the actual need for masks? There are two possible paths.
第一，在疫情较严重的地区，强制企业不得提前复工，并提供财政补贴。
First, in areas where the epidemic is more severe, enterprises are forced to resume work earlier and are provided with financial subsidies.
这个路径里涉及到一个简单而实际问题：对于很多企业来说，不复工则立刻意味着亏损。
There is a simple, practical problem involved in this path: for many businesses, not returning to work immediately means losing money.
据媒体报道，餐饮企业西贝如果维持现在的现金流情况，只能撑三个月。
According to media reports, catering enterprises if the current cash flow situation, can only last three months.
这并不是个案，大部分企业如果不进行运营，而员工工资和房租等固定成本仍需照常支付的话，一定会产生巨大的现金流压力。
This is not an isolated case, and most businesses would be under enormous cash flow pressure if they did not operate and fixed costs, such as salaries and rents, continued to be paid as usual.
很多企业和西贝这样的线下零售型企业不同的是：西贝即使可以今天就复工，也不会有人去消费，因为疫情直接导致大部分人不愿意去餐厅这样的公共场所吃饭；大部分企业如果可以提前复工，他们的业务还是可以比较正常地开展的，比如制造业、物流行业、农业、贸易、咨询服务等行业。
Unlike offline retailing companies like Sebe, Sebe will not be consumed even if it is able to go back to work today, because the epidemic is directly discouraging most people from eating in public places such as restaurants; most businesses can still operate more normally if they can get back to work early, such as manufacturing, logistics, agriculture, trade, consulting services, etc.
这些非线下零售类的公司会有强烈的倾向让员工提前复工。
These offline retailing companies have a strong tendency to get their employees back to work early.
而在这些企业中，除了一些岗位可以远程办公以外，大部分岗位还是需要员工的实地到岗，这就会产生员工提前复工的压力。
In these enterprises, in addition to some posts can be telecommuting, most of the posts still require the physical presence of staff, which will create pressure for workers to return to work early.
为了缓解这种压力，政府部门在理论上有两种选择：一、降低企业推迟复工的损失；二、提高企业提前复工的成本。
In order to ease this pressure, the government has two theoretical choices: first, to reduce the cost of delaying the resumption of work by enterprises; and second, to raise the cost of early resumption of work.
这两个选择在逻辑上是一样的，但是前者是正向激励，后者则是负向激励，在企业整体运营受疫情影响而压力巨大的背景下，前者的推行阻力会小很多，也符合目前宏观经济宽松和刺激的大原则。
The two options are logically the same, but the former is a positive incentive, the latter a negative one, and, given the pressure of the epidemic on the entire operation of the enterprise, the former would be much less resistant to implementation and would be in line with the current broad principles of macroeconomic easing and stimulus.
具体如何降低企业推迟复工的损失？政府可以通过减免税负的方式间接提供补贴，这不会涉及到财政资金的直接支出，所以不会造成各级政府的短期压力。
How to reduce the loss of enterprises to delay the resumption of work? The government can indirectly provide subsidies by way of tax relief, which will not involve direct expenditure of financial resources, so there will be no short-term pressure on governments at all levels.
接下来，如何决定给每个企业补贴多少？同样，政府可以根据企业上一年提供的税务报表里的年收入，作为每日补贴额度的一个基础。
Again, the government can base the daily allowance on the annual income reported by the enterprise in the previous year.
需要重视的是，政府应该更加关注员工密集型的企业，比如制造业和服务业，尽快及时阻止这些企业的员工回流和复工将是阻断传染源和降低口罩消耗压力的重要抓手。
It is important to note that the government should pay more attention to employee-intensive enterprises, such as manufacturing and service industries. Preventing the return and return to work of workers from these enterprises as soon as possible will be an important tool to block the source of infection and reduce pressure on mask consumption.
当然，这里面牵涉到大量的执行细节和复杂度，但是的确是一个可以作为出发点的思路。
Of course, there is a lot of implementation detail and complexity involved, but it is a starting point.
不同地区和不同行业也可以根据实际情况制定具体而灵活的政策。
Specific and flexible policies can also be tailored to different regions and industries.
第二，尽可能组织社会力量提供上门运输和物流服务，尤其是在疫区。
Second, as far as possible, organize social forces to provide door-to-door transport and logistics services, especially in affected areas.
目前除了武汉以外，黄冈、温州和杭州已经出台限制居民出门的命令，均为每家每两天可派1人出门采购，无关人员不得外出。
In addition to Wuhan, Huanggang, Wenzhou and Hangzhou have issued orders restricting residents from leaving their homes to send one person every two days for shopping.
之后其他疫情严重的城市跟进该政策也是大概率事件。
It was also a high probability event that other cities with severe epidemics followed suit.
在推行这个政策的同时，如果人们的大部分对物品和服务需求都可以通过上门的方式解决，出门的需求就会被进一步压低，口罩的消耗量也因此会被进一步压低。
While this policy is being pursued, if most of the people's demand for goods and services can be met through the door, the demand for travel will be further depressed, and thus the consumption of masks will be further reduced.
统一进行上门服务或物流运输，口罩的消耗量一定更低。
Uniform door-to-door service or logistics transport, the consumption of masks must be lower.
比如，由一人为几个小区专门上门送菜，一天可以送100户菜，可能才消耗一个口罩，而如果这100户人都有一个人出门买菜，即使买10次菜才更换一次口罩，也需要消耗10个口罩。
For example, a person delivering food to a small area can deliver 100 meals a day and may only consume a mask, while if one person from each of these 100 households goes out to buy food, they will need to consume 10 masks even if they buy 10 dishes before changing the mask.
所以专人上门会大大节省口罩的消耗量。
Therefore, the door-to-door will greatly save the mask consumption.
京东、盒马、叮咚、饿了么、美团等互联网平台经过多年积累，已经在大部分城市建立了现成的物流配送体系和完善的管理系统，扩展规模的难度应该相对较低，此时正是发挥这些基础设施优势的时候。
After years of accumulation, Internet platforms such as Jingdong, Boxer, Dingdong, Hungry, and other Internet platforms have built up ready-made logistics and distribution systems and perfect management systems in most cities.
当然，这些平台目前的配送人员数量是不足以支撑全民化的上门需求的，如果要在一些城市系统性地推行大规模的上门服务，就必须以更高的工资招募新的人员或志愿者，而各地的政府部门应该尽快提供工资补贴或人力帮助。
Of course, the current number of distribution personnel in these platforms is insufficient to support universal door-to-door demand. If large-scale door-to-door services are to be systematically implemented in some cities, new personnel or volunteers must be recruited at higher wages, and local government departments should provide wage subsidies or manpower assistance as quickly as possible.
离大部分省份的复工时间2月10日还有一周。
The resumption of work in most provinces is still one week away from 10 February.
到那时如果疫情没有明显扭转，口罩的供需紧平衡将很可能被打破，甚至发生全国性口罩短缺。
By then, if the epidemic does not reverse significantly, the supply-demand balance of masks will likely be disrupted, and there may even be a national shortage of masks.
无论从疫情防控角度，还是从社会民情角度而言，这都不是好事。
This is not a good thing, either from the point of view of disease control or from the point of view of social sentiment.
关于口罩的这场战役，留给我们的时间不多了。
We don't have much time left in this battle over masks.
在正常的政策环境下，我们有更多时间斟酌对策，但是在疫情蔓延的压力下，一切决定都必须果断迅速。
In a normal policy environment, we have more time to weigh in, but under the pressure of the epidemic, all decisions must be taken decisively and quickly.
（笪兴供职某投资机构，董博琳供职于交通银行，许加凤供职于上海外国语大学，本文只代表作者个人观点，编辑：宋玮）▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
An calendar that serves an investment firm, Dong Boolin works for Bank of Communications, and Xu Jiafeng works at Shanghai Foreign Languages University. This article represents only the author's personal views. This article is an original article by Caijing magazine and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
供需两端入手，破解口罩困局。
Start at both ends of the supply chain.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "供需两端入手，破解口罩困局";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "_随着2月10日全国陆续复工，需要在需求和供给端采取必要调控手段，避免发生更严重的口罩紧缺问题";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; _ With the resumption of work nationwide on 10 February, the necessary controls are needed on both the demand and supply sides to avoid & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
