返岗复工农民工已达7800万，卫健委：未要求返岗前开具健康证明。
Back to work migrant workers have reached 78 million, health committee: do not require to return to work before the issue of health certificates.
何香奕。
He Xiang Yi.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国记者：何香奕“ 交通运输部表示，初步预计到4月上旬，农民工返岗运输将基本完成。
Source: China Vision China: He Xiang Yi "The Ministry of Transport and Communications said the initial estimate was that by early April migrant workers would have returned to work.
”2020年3月7日，国务院联防联控机制召开新闻发布会介绍农民工返岗复工“点对点”服务保障情况。
On March 7, 2020, the Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism of the State Council held a press conference to introduce the "point-to-point" service guarantee for migrant workers returning to work.
人社部农民工工作司司长尚建华介绍，目前返岗复工农民工达7800万，已占到今年春节返乡农民工总数的六成。
Shang Jianhua, director of the department for migrant workers at the Ministry of Human Resources, said 78 million migrant workers had returned to work, accounting for 60 percent of the migrant workers returning home for the Spring Festival.
尚建华表示，2019年我国农民工总量达到2.9亿，其中外出农民工为1.7亿人，跨省流动农民工约7500万，随着目前复工复产政策的出台，农民工返岗复工在有序推进，“从目前返岗复工的流向看，主要是长三角和珠三角。
According to Shang Jianhua, the total number of migrant workers in 2019 has reached 290 million, including 170 million migrant workers and 75 million migrant workers across provinces. With the current policy of returning to work, migrant workers are returning to work in an orderly way.
广东、浙江外省农民工返岗复工率达到70%，江苏外省农民工返岗复工率约有60%。
The rate of migrant workers returning to work reached 70 percent in Guangdong and Zhejiang provinces, and about 60 percent in Jiangsu Province.
”人社部就业促进司司长张莹表示，当前重点企业正在开足马力加快生产，用工规模、用工需求也在同步扩大。
Zhang Ying, director of the department for promoting employment at the ministry, said key companies were boosting production at full capacity and expanding demand for workers and workers.
与此同时，确实有一些农民工不敢外出、不愿外出，有一些在出行方面还面临困难，企业缺工和农民工滞留问题确实存在。
At the same time, it is true that some migrant workers do not dare to go out, some of them also face difficulties in travelling, business absenteeism and the presence of migrant workers do exist.
对此，人社部将对重点企业开复工，特别是吸纳就业困难人员、贫困劳动力的给予补贴，对人力资源服务机构、劳务经纪人组织或者助力返岗复工的给予支持，对贫困劳动力愿意外出就业的，给予相应补贴。
In this regard, the Ministry will grant subsidies to key enterprises for the resumption of work, especially for those with difficulties in finding employment and those in need, and to human resources service agencies, labour brokers' organizations or workers returning to work, and will subsidize poor workers who wish to work outside the home.
据介绍，“点对点”服务主要是针对已有工作岗位和新确定工作岗位的拟进城务工的农民工，同时针对用工地比较集中、用工企业比较集中的地方进行“点对点”输送服务。
The "point-to-point" service is aimed at rural migrant workers who want to migrate to cities where jobs are already available and new jobs are being created, according to the report.
交通运输部运输服务司副司长蔡团结介绍，目前，全国已经有四川、浙江、山东、福建等27个省份推行了“点对点”一站直达包车业务，同时正有序恢复省际省内的道路客运班线，提供联网售票、联程联运服务，为农民工分散化出行提供保障，初步预计到4月上旬，农民工返岗运输将基本完成。
Cai Unity, Deputy Director-General of the Transport Services Department of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, said that at present, 27 provinces including Sichuan, Zhejiang, Shandong and Fujian have implemented "point-to-point" one-stop charter services.
农民工参加“点对点”返岗，乘车前是否需要开具健康证？核酸检测等费用如何安排？国家卫健委人口家庭司司长杨文庄表示，国家层面没有要求参加返岗复工“点对点”的农民工开具健康证明、做核酸检测，所以也不需要支付体温检测等费用。
Yang Wenzhuang, director of the National Health Commission's Population and Family Division, said there was no requirement at the national level for migrant workers returning to work to have their health certificates and nucleic acid tested, so that they did not have to pay for body temperature tests.
“乘坐‘点对点’专列或包车返岗的农民工，只要行前14天内和在途没有相关症状的要尽快复工不需要再进行隔离”，杨文庄明确，需要隔离的将由用人单位提供隔离观察场所。
"Migrant workers returning from a point-to-point train or charter train need not be quarantined as soon as possible as long as they travel for the first 14 days and have no symptoms on the way back to work," Yang said.
此外，他也建议自行外出的农民工要增强法治意识和防护意识，要提前了解目的地的风险等级以及应急响应级别。
In addition, he also advised migrant workers to strengthen their awareness of the rule of law and protection awareness, to know the destination of the risk level and emergency response level.
而针对返岗包车的费用，蔡团结表示，我们提倡建立政府、企业、农民工等相关主体共同参与的费用分担机制，通过政府补助一点、用工企业资助一点、农民工兄弟负担一点，最大程度上降低出行成本，实现各方共赢，“我们也呼吁各地政府和广大用工企业积极主动承担农民工返岗运输包车相关费用，让广大农民工兄弟有更多的获得感。
"We also call on governments and employers to take the initiative in reducing travel costs and achieving win-win results for all parties concerned," he said. "We also call on governments and enterprises across the country to take an active part in the cost of transporting migrant workers back to work.
”杨文庄强调，疫情防控仍然处于关键时期，人员流动和聚集增加带来的疫情传播风险在加大，加强疫情防控必须慎终如始，对疫情的警惕性、防控要求不能降低。
Yang stressed that the prevention and control of the epidemic was still at a critical period, with the risk of spreading the disease increasing due to increased human mobility and agglomeration.
“不同风险地区农民工出行，要按照分级分类管理的原则，精准施策、科学防控，不能简单化、一刀切，也不能提出脱离实际的过高要求，不能额外增加农民工和基层工作人员的负担。
"Migrant workers in different risk areas should travel according to the principle of classification and management, giving precise advice and scientific prevention and control.
”杨文庄说。
'he said.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
返岗复工农民工已达7800万，卫健委：未要求返岗前开具健康证明。
Back to work migrant workers have reached 78 million, health committee: do not require to return to work before the issue of health certificates.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "返岗复工农民工已达7800万，卫健委：未要求返岗前开具健康证明";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "交通运输部表示，初步预计到4月上旬，农民工返岗运输将基本完成。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; The Ministry of Transport said it initially expected migrant workers to return to work by early April.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
