沙特关闭全国学校，封锁东部什叶派地区。
Saudi Arabia has closed schools across the country and sealed off Shiite areas in the east.
安晶​。
Anjing Zheng.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：Twitter记者:安晶“ 由于沙特和伊朗之间的争端，去过伊朗的沙特公民不会主动向当局汇报，伊朗当局也不会在入境沙特公民的护照上盖戳。
Source: Twitter: "Due to the dispute between Saudi Arabia and Iran, Saudi citizens who have been to Iran do not voluntarily report to the authorities, nor do the Iranian authorities stamp passports of Saudi citizens entering the country.
”为防止新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情扩散，沙特阿拉伯宣布关闭全国所有学校，暂停与九个国家的航空和海路往来，同时封锁东部省什叶派产油区卡提夫。
To prevent the spread of the new coronavirus pneumonia, Saudi Arabia announced it would close all schools across the country, suspend air and sea travel to nine countries and block Katif, a Shiite oil-producing region in the Eastern Province.
截至3月9日上午，沙特新增确诊4例，累计确诊升至15例。
As of the morning of March 9, four new cases were diagnosed in Saudi Arabia, and the cumulative number of confirmed cases rose to 15.
其中大部分就来自卡提夫。
Most of them came from Katif.
据阿拉伯新闻网和海湾新闻网9日报道，沙特教育部当天上午宣布从周一起关闭全国所有公立和私立学校，何时重新开放待另行通知。
The Saudi Ministry of Education announced Monday that it would close all public and private schools in the country from Monday until further notice.
停课期间，学校可采取远程授课或网络授课。
During the suspension, schools may take the form of distance learning or web-based instruction.
除学校外，全国清真寺的教育和《古兰经》研读活动全部暂停；该国最大的体育比赛沙特运动会也宣布推迟。
In addition to schools, education at the national mosque and Koranic reading activities were suspended; the Saudi Games, the country's largest sports competition, were also announced as postponed.
周一上午，沙特新增四例确诊病例。
Four new cases were confirmed Monday morning in Saudi Arabia.
其中两人为巴林公民，从伊拉克返回巴林的途中经停沙特；一人为美国公民，抵达沙特前曾到过菲律宾和意大利；另一人为沙特公民，与卡提夫的确诊病例有接触。
Two of them were Bahraini citizens who had stopped in Saudi Arabia on their way from Iraq to Bahrain; one was a United States citizen who had travelled to the Philippines and Italy before arriving in Saudi Arabia; and the other was a Saudi citizen who was in contact with the confirmed case of Katif.
在此之前，沙特的11例确诊病例全部出现在卡提夫。
Until then, all of the 11 confirmed cases in Saudi Arabia had occurred in Katif.
为防止疫情扩散，沙特已于周日宣布封锁卡提夫地区。
To prevent the disease from spreading, Saudi Arabia announced Sunday a blockade of the Katif region.
根据沙特内政部的规定，卡提夫将禁止人员出入，但目前滞留在外的卡提夫居民仍然可以返回。
According to the Saudi Ministry of the Interior, Katif will be banned from entering or leaving the country, but residents of Katif who are currently outside the country can still return.
除药店、医院、加油站、安保部门等提供必需服务和安全保障的机构外，当地所有政府和私人机构、公司及商店都将关闭。
All local government and private institutions, companies and shops will be closed, in addition to those providing essential services and security, such as pharmacies, hospitals, petrol stations, security services, etc.
运输商品和供给的车辆可以进入卡提夫，但必须经过严格检查。
Vehicles transporting goods and supplies may enter Katif, subject to strict inspection.
据半岛电视台报道，当地民众透露，进出卡提夫的主路上已经放置了水泥路障；居民则赶在超市关门前排队抢购生活必需品。
Local people said concrete barricades had been placed on the main road into and out of Katif, and residents were lining up to buy necessities before the supermarket closed, al-Jazeera reported.
业内人士预测，卡提夫的封城不会对沙特的石油生产造成影响。
Industry insiders predict that Katif's closure will have no impact on Saudi oil production.
卡提夫地区的超市排队。
Supermarket queues in the Katif area.
图片来源：Twitter卡提夫位于沙特东部，约有50万人口，是什叶派聚居地。
Source: Twitter Katif, a Shia stronghold in eastern Saudi Arabia with a population of about half a million.
沙特以逊尼派为主，什叶派仅有不到15%。
The Saudis are predominantly Sunni, with less than 15% Shia.
而卡提夫的确诊患者中有多人曾前往伊朗。
Many of Katif's confirmed patients have gone to Iran.
伊朗拥有众多什叶派圣地，是什叶派民众朝圣的热门目的地。
Iran, with its numerous Shia holy sites, is a popular destination for Shiite pilgrimages.
红点为卡提夫。
Red dots for Cartiff.
图片来源：谷歌地图由于沙特和伊朗之间的争端，去过伊朗的沙特公民不会主动向当局汇报，伊朗当局也不会在入境沙特公民的护照上盖戳。
Source: Google Maps Saudi citizens who have been to Iran will not voluntarily report to the authorities because of a dispute between Saudi Arabia and Iran, nor will the Iranian authorities stamp the passports of Saudi citizens entering the country.
在本轮疫情中，伊朗已经成为中东地区的风暴眼。
In this round, Iran has become the eye of the storm in the Middle East.
截至8日，伊朗累计确诊6566例，累计死亡194例。
As of August 8, a cumulative total of 6,566 cases and 194 deaths had been diagnosed in Iran.
沙特已经禁止该国公民前往伊朗，上周还谴责伊朗继续允许沙特公民入境。
Saudi Arabia has banned its citizens from travelling to Iran and last week condemned Iran for continuing to allow Saudi citizens to enter the country.
伊朗官员和卡提夫民众此前则不满沙特政府歧视什叶派人士。
Iranian officials and the Katif public have previously complained that the Saudi government discriminates against Shiites.
除伊朗之外，沙特当局周一还宣布禁止该国公民和居民前往阿联酋、科威特、巴林、黎巴嫩、叙利亚、埃及、伊拉克、意大利和韩国。
In addition to Iran, Saudi authorities on Monday banned citizens and residents from travelling to the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, Bahrain, Lebanon, Syria, Egypt, Iraq, Italy and South Korea.
从这九国返回或在过去14天到过这九国的人员将禁止入境沙特。
Persons returning from these nine countries or who have visited them in the past 14 days will be barred from entering Saudi Arabia.
周六，沙特宣布暂停与巴林、阿联酋和科威特的陆路往来。
On Saturday, Saudi Arabia suspended overland travel with Bahrain, the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait.
此前，沙特已宣布全面暂停麦加的小朝觐，禁止外国朝圣者前往麦加和麦地那。
Earlier, Saudi Arabia had announced a complete suspension of the Hajj in Mecca and banned foreign pilgrims from going to Mecca and Medina.
除沙特之外，海湾地区国家的确诊人数也在持续上升。
In addition to Saudi Arabia, the number of confirmed cases continues to rise in Gulf countries.
截至周日，卡塔尔新增三例确诊，累计确诊15例。
As of Sunday, three new cases were diagnosed in Qatar, with a cumulative total of 15 confirmed cases.
该国于周一宣布暂停来自14个国家的乘客入境。
On Monday, the country suspended the entry of passengers from 14 countries.
确诊病例升至85例的巴林则宣布本月的F1赛事将禁止观众进场；科威特累计确诊64例，该国央行已宣布拨出3300万美元的资金用于疫情防控。
Bahrain, where 85 cases have been confirmed, has banned spectators from attending this month's F1 event, and Kuwait's central bank has announced it has set aside $33 million for disease prevention and control in a cumulative total of 64 cases.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
沙特关闭全国学校，封锁东部什叶派地区。
Saudi Arabia has closed schools across the country and sealed off Shiite areas in the east.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "沙特关闭全国学校，封锁东部什叶派地区";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Saudi Arabia shut down schools across the country and imposed a blockade on Ras & quot; in the east.
var msg_desc = "由于沙特和伊朗之间的争端，去过伊朗的沙特公民不会主动向当局汇报，伊朗当局也不会在入境沙特公民的护照上盖戳。
var msg _ desc = & quot; because of the dispute between Saudi Arabia and Iran, Saudi citizens who have been to Iran will not report to the authorities on their own initiative, nor will the Iranian authorities stamp the passports of Saudi citizens entering Saudi territory.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
