曲线返校难、网课效率低，多所澳洲高校给中国学生发补助金。
Curve back to school difficult, low efficiency of online classes, many Australian universities grant grants to Chinese students.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
The following article comes from 界面教育。
Education at the interface of the following articles.
Author 柳书琪。
Author Liu Shuqi.
界面教育。
Interface education.
独立思考 读懂教育 | 界面·财联社旗下教育频道。
INDEPENDENT RESEARCH & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & FCO's education channel.
图片来源：视觉中国记者: 柳书琪“ 无论是曲线返校，还是网课或延期入学，对留学生而言都意味着不菲的成本。
Source: China Visual Correspondent: Liu Shu-qi "Whether it is a curve back to school, online classes or delayed enrollment, for foreign students means a high cost.
”2月1日澳大利亚联邦政府宣布对中国公民实施入境限制后，约十万名中国留学生陷入返校困境。
About 100,000 Chinese students returned to school after the Federal Government of Australia announced restrictions on the entry of Chinese citizens on February 1.
这一限制禁止所有从中国飞抵澳大利亚的民众入境，但澳大利亚公民、永久居民以及两者直系亲属和机组人员除外。
The restriction prohibits all people arriving in Australia from China except Australian citizens, permanent residents and their immediate family members and crew members.
2月22日，该禁令放宽至允许非湖北省的11年级和12年级留学生入境。
On 22 February, the ban was eased to allow students from grades 11 and 12 in non-Hubei provinces to enter the country.
但截至目前，该禁令依然在生效中。
To date, however, the ban is still in force.
“曲线返校已经被证实是可行的。
"Curve back to school has proved to be feasible.
”留澳学生张鲁告诉界面教育，他身边不少同学已经在泰国或马来西亚停留14天后成功返回了澳大利亚。
Zhang Lu, a student in Australia, told Interface that many of his classmates had returned to Australia after 14 days in Thailand or Malaysia.
但并非所有人都能接受这一入境方式。
However, this mode of entry is not acceptable to all.
留澳学生陈璐表示，曲线返校耗时长、花销大，还存在极大的不确定性。
Lu Chen, a student in Australia, said the curve back to school time-consuming, expensive, there is still great uncertainty.
在韩国和伊朗等国的疫情加重后，澳大利亚总理莫里森在3月5日宣布对韩国实行入境限制，并延长伊朗的旅游禁令。
Australian Prime Minister Erik Morrison on March 5 announced restrictions on entry into South Korea and an extension of Iran's travel ban after outbreaks in countries such as South Korea and Iran intensified.
“如果中转的第三国疫情加剧，曲线返校的人也可能走不了。
"If the epidemic worsens in third countries in transit, people returning from the curve may not be able to get there.
”陈璐说。
'said Chen Lu.
除曲线返校外，滞留国内的留澳学生还有两种选择，远程上课或推迟至下学期入学。
In addition to curvilinear return to school, the remaining students in Australia have two options, distance learning or postponement to the next semester.
陈璐所在的莫纳什大学提出，无法返校的学生前6周可远程上课，课程安排相对宽松；6月返回澳洲后，再开始6至8周的面授课程，且学习安排会更为紧凑。
Chen Lu's Monash University has suggested that students unable to return to school can do so remotely for the first six weeks, with a relatively easy programme, and return to Australia in June for six to eight weeks of face-to-face courses, with more intensive study schedules.
但无论是曲线返校，还是上网课或延期入学，留学生都需花费不少成本。
But whether it is a curve trip back to school, online classes or late entry, students have to spend a lot of money.
据BBC报道，一位中转泰国的中国留学生最终花费了2万澳币（约合人民币9.2万元）才成功返校。
A Chinese student transiting Thailand ended up returning to school for 20,000 Australian dollars (92,000 yuan), BBC reported.
而上网课的学生可能达不到面授的学习效果，延期入学也将浪费他们一学期的时间。
Students taking online classes may not be able to achieve the results of face-to-face study, and postponing admission will waste them a semester.
对此，部分澳洲高校已着手为滞留的中国留学生提供费用补贴或学费减免。
In response, some Australian universities have started to provide fees subsidies or tuition waivers for stranded Chinese students.
西悉尼大学最早于2月21日表示，将为受旅行限制影响、且能在3月30日前抵校的学生提供1500澳元（约合人民币6897元）的补贴。
The University of Western Sydney said on February 21 that it would subsidize students affected by travel restrictions who will be able to arrive by March 30 at A $1,500 (6,897 yuan).
墨尔本大学也于2月25日发布通知称，将为受影响的学生提供最高7500澳元（约合人民币3.45万元）的补助金支持。
The University of Melbourne also announced on February 25 that it would provide grant support of up to A $7,500 (US $34,500) to affected students.
阿德莱德大学则表示，除了为网课和延期学生提供最高2000澳元（约合人民币9196元）的机票报销费用外，网课学生本学期还可获得20%的学费减免。
Adelaide University said that in addition to offering up to 2,000 Australian dollars ($9196) in reimbursement for online classes and extended students, students will receive a 20 percent tuition fee waiver this semester.
悉尼大学也于3月6日宣布，最高可向参加网络教学的学生返还4000澳元（约合人民币1.84万元）的学费。
The University of Sydney on March 6 announced it would refund up to 4,000 Australian dollars (18,400 yuan) in tuition fees to students who took part in online education.
推迟到2020年第二学期入学的学生，最高可返还2000澳元（约合人民币9196元），再推迟一学期最高可返还3000澳元（约合人民币1.38万元）。
Students whose education is delayed until the second semester of 2020 can return up to 2,000 Australian dollars (9196 yuan) or up to 3,000 Australian dollars (13,800 yuan) for a second semester.
因旅行禁令而产生的额外支出，悉尼大学还将给予费用补贴。
The University of Sydney will also grant a fee subsidy for additional expenses incurred in connection with the travel ban.
针对留学生忧虑的学习进度和考核等问题，一些高校也提供了解决方案。
Some colleges and universities also offer solutions to the students' concerns about the progress and assessment of their studies.
张鲁就读的麦考瑞大学称，上网课的学生如果期末成绩不及格，学校将提供免费重修的机会。
According to McCaughley University in ZhangLu, online students who fail their final exams will be offered free tuition.
澳大利亚国立大学也提出，可为3月31前无法抵澳上课的学生提供免费重修未通过课程的机会，未入学的新生还可免去本学期的远程学费。
The Australian National University has also offered free respite courses for students who cannot reach Australia by March 31, and distance-learning for those who do not.
除澳洲外，在颁布类似入境限制的新西兰，也有高校开始为中国留学生发放补贴。
Outside Australia, universities in New Zealand, which has similar restrictions on entry, have started to subsidize Chinese students.
奥克兰理工大学近日发布消息称，将为遭遇旅行限制并已申请本学期入学的中国大陆留学生提供1000新西兰元（约合人民币4405元）补助金。
A grant of NZ $1,000 (US $4,405) will be offered to mainland Chinese students who face travel restrictions and have applied for admission this semester, Auckland Polytechnic University said in a statement.
作为澳洲第一大留学生生源，中国学生无法返校必将给澳洲各高校带来经济压力。
The inability of Chinese students to return to school, as Australia's largest source of foreign students, is bound to put pressure on Australian universities.
但据路透社2月21日报道，澳大利亚总理莫里森表示，政府正在与教育部门合作开展项目，以减轻大学负担，但政府不会向它们直接提供资金。
But Australian Prime Minister David Morrison said the government was working with the education sector on projects to ease the university burden, but would not provide funds directly to them.
“别忘了我们的大学资本雄厚。
"Don't forget that our universities are well capitalized.
”他说。
'he said.
（应受访者要求，张鲁、陈璐为化名）未经授权 禁止转载。
(At the request of the interviewee, Lu Zhang, Chen Lu for alias) unauthorized reprinting is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
曲线返校难、网课效率低，多所澳洲高校给中国学生发补助金。
Curve back to school difficult, low efficiency of online classes, many Australian universities grant grants to Chinese students.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "曲线返校难、网课效率低，多所澳洲高校给中国学生发补助金";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "无论是曲线返校，还是网课或延期入学，对留学生而言都意味着不菲的成本。
var msg _ desc = & quot; whether it's curving back to school, taking classes online, or delaying admission, it can be costly for foreign students.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
