确诊破千仍零病亡背后：德国防疫的真相是怎样的？。
Diagnosis is still zero behind the disease: What is the truth about vaccination in Germany?
界面地球姨。
Auntie Earth.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：图虫特约作者：钱伯彦“ 德国所有医保机构年均380亿欧元的支出在欧洲一枝独秀，远超法国的230亿欧元和英国的140亿欧元。
2007-9-25 21: 48 "All German healthcare institutions spend an average of 38 billion euros a year in Europe, far more than France's 23 billion euros and Britain's 14 billion euros.
”新冠病毒加速肆虐老迈的欧洲大陆。
The new crown virus is hastening across the old continent.
就公开的确诊数而言，意大利一度超越韩国成海外第一大疫情国，且病死率高企；法国与德国则稳居第五、第六；包括斯洛伐克、马耳他、法罗群岛、摩尔瓦多在内的东欧与列支敦士登、梵蒂冈等一众袖珍国家已悉数中招。
In terms of the number of open diagnoses, Italy once surpassed South Korea as the largest overseas country, with a high fatality rate; France and Germany placed fifth and sixth; and Eastern Europe, including Slovakia, Malta, the Faroe Islands, and Moldova, along with Liechtenstein and the Vatican, have all done the trick.
不过在这波汹涌的疫情中，却有一个数字值得关注：确诊超过1000例的德国死亡人数至今依然为零。
But amid the surge, one number is worth noting: the number of deaths in Germany, which has been confirmed at more than 1,000, remains at zero.
但这或许不应该成为这个欧盟第一经济及人口大国过早乐观的理由。
But that may not be the reason for premature optimism in the EU's first economy and most populous country.
秘诀在哪？“如果我们按照3%的死亡率来计算，现在应该已经有六至七起死亡病例”，德国病毒学家多斯滕教授（Christian Drosten）在3月5日做客北德意志电台NDR访谈时曾表示：“但实际上我们并没有这么多，我们的死亡数字是零。
"If we had taken the 3% mortality rate, there would have been six to seven deaths by now," German virologist Christian Drosten said in an interview on March 5 with the North German radio station NDR: "But we don't have that many.
”多斯滕教授曾在2003年4月协助美国疾控中心绘制出SARS病毒的基因组图，被视为德国国内该领域最权威的专家。
Prof Dosten, who helped the CDC map of the SARS virus in April 2003, is regarded as the country's most authoritative expert in the field.
由于德国卫生部长施潘仅有正规本科学历，硕士毕业于网校而多被质疑其领导卫生部的能力，因此多斯滕教授也被德国华人群体称为德国版钟南山。
Professor Daston is also known as the German version of Zhong Nan Shan by the German Chinese community, since German Health Minister Jan Schöpp has only a formal bachelor's degree and master's degree is often questioned about his ability to lead the ministry.
距离多斯滕的访谈已过去四天，德国确诊病例数量已上涨了接近三倍，但死亡人数却依然是零。
Four days after Dosten's interview, the number of confirmed cases in Germany has nearly tripled, but the death toll remains zero.
确实，与意大利366例和法国19例死亡相比，德国的零死亡率颇为难得，即便是比德国确诊病例数少不少的西班牙和美国都出现了17例和22例死亡。
Indeed, Germany's zero mortality rate is rare compared to 366 in Italy and 19 in France, with 17 and 22 deaths, even in Spain and the United States, where the number of confirmed cases is much lower than in Germany.
“与其他国家相比，我们的优势在于，我们仍处于疫情爆发的相对早期”，在多斯滕看来，相比于新冠病毒在1月就已经传播开的意大利，德国的输入性病例在第一时间就被及时追踪。
"Our advantage over other countries is that we are still in a relatively early stage of the outbreak," said Dosten, who said imported cases in Germany were tracked immediately compared to Italy, where the virus spread in January.
早在2月26日，疫情最为严重的北威州和巴符州首批病例的接触人群就被排查，其中巴符州的“一号病人”更是从米兰旅游归来后第一时间前往医院。
As early as 26 February, the first cases of contact in the worst affected states, North Wales and BW, were cleared, with "patient number one" from BW going to the hospital immediately after returning from a trip to Milan.
图源：时代报除了占时间差的便宜之外，德国能够在降低死亡率上，比西班牙、荷兰等同为输入性病例为源头的欧洲国家做得更好，还有更深层的原因。
Source: In addition to the time lag, Germany has been able to do better than Spain and the Netherlands in reducing mortality in Europe, where imported cases are the source, and for deeper reasons.
“德国与其他国家相比存在着系统层面的区别”，在多斯滕看来，先进的试验室条件与市场化力量推动的大面积检测的铺开是德国零死亡率的秘诀。
"There are systemic differences between Germany and other countries," said Dosten, whose secret to zero mortality in Germany is advanced laboratory conditions and widespread testing driven by market forces.
德国拥有欧洲数量最多的生物安全等级最高P4实验室。
Germany has the highest number of biosafety level P4 laboratories in Europe.
4家实验室比英法两国相加还要多，如果算上瑞士的3家P4实验室，泛德语区内聚集了欧洲（含俄罗斯）半数以上的最高等级生物实验室。
Four laboratories are more than the UK and France combined, and if Switzerland's three P4 laboratories are included, more than half of Europe's top biological laboratories (including Russia) are concentrated in the pan-German-speaking region.
统计机构Statista的数据显示，德国所有医保机构年均380亿欧元的支出在欧洲也是一枝独秀，远超法国的230亿欧元和英国的140亿欧元。
According to Statista, the statistical agency, all German health-care providers spend €38 billion a year - far more than France's €23 billion and the UK's €14 billion.
其次，与日本或美国部分地区所施行的，仅有出现明显症状才被允许新冠检测不同，任何怀疑自身被感染新冠的德国人都可以拨打卫生部门的热线电话，并前往指定地点接受检测。
Second, unlike Japan or parts of the US, where only obvious symptoms are allowed, any German who suspects he or she is newly infected can call the health department's hotline and go to a designated location for testing.
检测点皆设于市中心的市政厅一侧，以确保疑似病例可步行自行前往，避免其使用公共交通工具扩大传染。
The detection points are located on the side of the Town Hall in the city centre to ensure that suspected cases can be reached on foot so as to avoid spreading infection by public transport.
这些举措都保证了轻症患者能在第一时间得到妥善处理，避免其发展成重症病例。
These measures ensure that patients with mild illness can be dealt with properly in the first place, so that they do not develop into serious cases.
目前德国确诊病例中80%以上为轻症和无症状者，危重病例仅为9例。
Currently, more than 80 per cent of confirmed cases in Germany are mild and asymptomatic, with only 9 cases in critical condition.
早在今年1月，德国就以市场化手段确立了大面积检测的根基。
Back in January, Germany laid the groundwork for mass testing with a market-based approach.
以德国最大的医保公司之一的Techniker Krankenkasse（TK）为例，若被检测者有疫情地区旅行史或与确诊者有过接触，该公司会报销59欧元的检测费用。
For example, Techniker Krankenkasse (TK), one of Germany's largest health-care companies, reimburses the test fee of Euro59 if the subject has a travel history in the affected area or has been in contact with a confirmed person.
而据柏林检测试剂生产商TIB Molbiol向《世界报》介绍，一盒100支装的试剂套装售价为250欧，即便算上运费和人工费用，每次测试的成本也不会超过10欧元。
According to TIB Molbiol, a manufacturer of detection reagents in Berlin, a 100-pack reagent kit costs 250 euros, and the cost of each test is no more than 10 euros, even if freight and labour costs are included.
正因为医疗机构可以通过新冠病毒检测的价差获取部分收入，所以检测点对于即使是无症状者也往往来之不拒。
Even asymptomatic people tend to be deterred by the fact that health-care providers are able to earn a portion of their income through the price differential of new-crown virus testing.
另一方面，德国目前针对新冠疫情的三级分工处理体系，也最大程度地确保了医疗资源的充分释放，避免了重症患者无法得到及时治疗而出现病危的情况。
On the other hand, Germany's current three-tier division of labor system for the new crown epidemic, also to the greatest extent to ensure the full release of medical resources, to avoid serious patients can not receive timely treatment and critical cases.
以首都柏林为例，拨打24小时热线电话之后，专业人员将根据患者的症状和旅行史做出甄别：出现较重症状及需要临床治疗者，将被第一时间接入医院；轻症者或疑似案例将被引导至街区普通诊所（Artzpraxis）；至于无症状者则会由卫生部门接手，并告知其前往各大检测点参与测试。
In the capital, Berlin, for example, a 24-hour hotline will allow professionals to screen patients for symptoms and travel histories: those with more severe symptoms and those requiring clinical treatment will be first admitted to hospitals; those with mild or suspected cases will be directed to Artzpraxis; and asymptomatic people will be taken over by the health authorities and told to go to major testing sites.
分散式、协作式的防疫措施能在第一时间隔离轻症者、收治重症者并降低死亡率。
Decentralized, collaborative prophylactic measures can isolate the mild cases, treat the seriously ill and reduce mortality in the first place.
诊所或家庭医生加上综合医院的两级体系也是德国现行医疗体系的核心。
The two-tier system of clinics or family doctors plus general hospitals is also at the heart of the current German health system.
一般而言，病人唯有出示诊所或家庭医生的入院建议单才会被综合医院收治，贸然前往综合医院往往需要半天以上的等待时间而不被建议。
In general, patients are admitted to general hospitals only upon presentation of a recommendation form from a clinic or a family doctor, and it often takes more than half a day to travel to a general hospital without being advised.
此外，得益于略为繁琐的预约系统，德国所有手术安排都根据紧急程度分级安排，在必要时医院方面有权延后无碍健康状况的低等级手术，以确保新冠病人得以优先医治。
In addition, thanks to a slightly cumbersome appointment system, all surgical arrangements in Germany are tiered according to urgency and hospitals are entitled to postpone low-grade operations that do not interfere with their state of health, if necessary, in order to ensure that patients in the new crown receive priority treatment.
从严格意义上说，德国零死亡率的“不败金身”已于3月8日被打破。
In a strict sense, Germany's zero-mortality "unbeaten" status was broken on March 8.
当日，一位前往埃及旅游的老年游客（60岁）因新冠肺炎死亡，这也是第一例德国公民在此次疫情中的死亡案例。
An elderly 60-year-old tourist traveling to Egypt died of pneumonia, the first German citizen to die from the outbreak.
但由于该男子死于检测条件、医疗设施相对落后的埃及，对于德国普通人而言，这似乎更印证了德国本土完备的防疫措施。
But for ordinary Germans, the man's death in Egypt, where testing conditions and medical facilities were relatively poor, seemed to confirm the country's well-established immunization program.
正如德国传染病学家莫里兹（Stefan Moritz）所言，“毕竟我们有着全世界最优秀、也是最昂贵的医疗系统，如果我们的准备还不够充分，那还有谁？”乱象与隐患零死亡，一方面的确是德国防疫得当的一个注解，另一方面却也可以理解为漏洞百出的德国卫生机构的最后遮羞布。
As Stefan Moritz, the German epidemiologist, put it, "After all, we have the best and most expensive healthcare system in the world, and if we are not prepared enough, who else?"
目前，随着确诊人数的不断增加，在检测环节已大范围地出现热线占线、检测点爆满等问题。
At present, with the increasing number of confirmed people, in the detection link has been a large number of hot line busy, full detection points and other issues.
其中三级分流体系也导致了卫生部门与医院或诊所之间出现互相踢皮球的现象。
The three-level diversion system also leads to the occurrence of kickball between health departments and hospitals or clinics.
另外，由于欧洲的物流系统并未进入紧急状态，也导致检测试剂盒在周末休息时间段无法被及时运抵相关机构。
In addition, the absence of a state of emergency in the European logistics system also prevented the timely delivery of test kits to relevant agencies during the weekend break.
德国更为严重的问题则是传播链的斩而不断。
The more serious problem in Germany is the cutting-off of the transmission chain.
在集中了德国近半数病例的北威州，所有病例按照传播链回溯，几乎都可以追踪到海恩斯贝尔格（Heinsberg）这座小镇。
In North Wales, where nearly half of Germany's cases are concentrated, almost all cases can be traced back to Heinsberg, a small town, along the transmission chain.
2月25日，该小镇的一对中年夫妇便被当局确诊，其社交关系网也及时被追踪，但依然无法阻止病毒在这里的爆炸式传播。
On February 25, a middle-aged couple in the town was diagnosed by authorities and their social networks were tracked, but the virus's explosive spread could not be prevented.
原因只有一个：狂欢节。
There is only one reason: Carnival.
“正因为我们处于疫情传播的初期阶段，才应当有针对性地采取行动，”多斯滕教授可能要失望了。
"It is because we are in the early stages of the epidemic that targeted action should be taken," Professor Dosten may be disappointed.
德国当局虽然落实了检测、收治等防疫手段的第一部分，但在斩断传播链这一更关键的第二部分却漏洞百出。
While the German authorities have implemented the first part of the epidemic prevention tools, such as detection and treatment, the second, more critical part of the chain of communication, is flawed.
2月末正值莱茵河流域各大德国城市的传统狂欢季。
Late February coincided with the traditional carnival in the Rhine Valley's major German cities.
即便是海恩斯贝尔格小镇也有300余人参加了镇上的庆祝活动，此波疫情源头的这对夫妇还参加了北威州州府杜塞尔多夫的狂欢节，杜塞尔多夫狂欢节每年平均吸引40万人参加。
Even the town of Haines-Berg had more than 300 people in attendance at the town's celebrations. The couple also attended the carnival in Dusseldorf, the capital of North Carolina, which attracts an average of 400,000 people a year.
德国国防军的首例病例也正是在杜塞尔多夫狂欢节上与该对夫妻有过接触才被传染。
It was at Dusseldorf Carnival that the first case of Düsseldorf caught the infection.
地区特色的狂欢节，加上拥有德国人口最密集的鲁尔区，都是北威州成为德国“湖北”的主要原因。
Regional carnivals, together with the Ruhr, the most densely populated area in Germany, are the main reasons why North Carolina became Germany's "Hubei."
狂欢节早已结束，但吃了一亏的德国当局并没有吸取教训。
Carnival is long over, but Germany's failed authorities have not learned their lesson.
相比于数天前已经宣布叫停所有1000人以上参与的大型活动的邻国瑞士，德国除了叫停包括汉诺威工业展在内的多个国际展览之外，再无其他举措。
Germany has nothing to offer but to halt international exhibitions, including Hanover's industrial show, compared with Switzerland, a neighbour that a few days ago announced the suspension of all major events involving more than 1,000 people.
无论是意大利的中小学、高等院校停课，或者意甲比赛必须空场进行，还是封锁包括伦巴第在内的北部多个大区，这些非常措施皆不在德国联邦政府考虑范围之内。
Whether Italian schools, colleges or universities are closed, or Serie A competitions have to be held empty, or if the northern regions, including Lombardy, are blockaded, these extraordinary measures are not considered by the German Federal Government.
尤其是人群聚集性最显著的德甲比赛，至今依然正常举行。
In particular, the most remarkable crowd-gathering game in Germany, so far still held normal.
即便卫生部长施潘于8日已建议延后或空场进行德甲比赛，但由于卫生部无权管辖德国足协，德甲比赛场地的防疫措施至今仍停留于喷洒消毒液。
Even though the Health Minister Stephen on the 8th has proposed to delay or empty German games, but because the Ministry of Health does not have jurisdiction over the German Football Association, the German venue of the anti-epidemic measures still remain spray disinfectant.
其中最受人瞩目的莫过于7日举行的门兴格拉德巴赫对阵多特蒙德的鲁尔区德比，北威州疫情源头的海恩斯贝尔格距离门兴格拉德巴赫不过20公里。
Nowhere was this more striking than in the Derby, Ruhr region, against Dortmund on the 7th, and in Haines-Berg, the source of the outbreak in North Wales, only 20 kilometers from Meninggrad al-Bach.
门兴主场53000人的普鲁士公园球场依然全场爆满。
The 53,000-strong Prussian Park Stadium in Mingxing remains packed.
德甲火力全开的同时，佩戴口罩依然为人所忽视。
While the German armour is fully open, wearing a mask is still overlooked.
周末的所有德甲比赛中几乎无人佩戴口罩。
Virtually no one wears a mask in all German games over the weekend.
正常人无须佩戴口罩这一观点，一如既往地得到了专家的支持。
The idea that normal people do not have to wear masks has always been supported by experts.
传播学专家莫里兹就指出：“（普通人）即便佩戴口罩，目的也仅是避免不自觉地触碰口鼻部位，而非阻隔气溶胶传播。
Communication expert Moritz said: "Even if you wear a mask, it is simply to avoid unwittingly touching the nose and mouth, rather than blocking aerosol transmission.
仅有确诊病人才需要佩戴FFP3口罩（注：即N95口罩），因为普通口罩密闭性不足以阻挡病毒，这也是医护人员仍需FFP3口罩的原因。
Only confirmed patients need to wear an FFP3 mask because the mask is not tightly closed enough to stop the virus. This is why FP3 masks are still needed.
”而对于“方脑袋”的德国人而言，新冠病毒并不可怕这一结论的依据也正是零死亡的事实。
And for the "square-headed" Germans, the conclusion that the new crown virus is not terrible is based on the fact that there is no death.
根据德国病毒学领域最权威的罗伯特·科赫研究所的数据，每年的流感病毒都会夺去德国超过百余人的生命，死亡率约在0.1至0.2%左右。
According to the Robert Koch Institute, the world's leading authority on virology, the annual flu virus kills more than a hundred people in Germany and kills between 0.1 and 0.2 per cent of the population.
而即便计算上在埃及去世的德国游客，目前新冠病毒的致死率确实小于普通流感。
And even by counting German tourists who died in Egypt, the death rate of the new crown virus is indeed lower than that of ordinary flu.
不过，仅从确诊人数的增长趋势来看，德国与意大利疫情爆发早期并无不同。
However, only in terms of the increasing trend in the number of confirmed cases, Germany and Italy did not differ from the early outbreak.
问题仅是：有着8300万人口且老龄化严重的德国，会成为下一个意大利吗？长按识别二维码获取更多文章。
The question is simply: Will Germany, with a population of 83 million and an aging population, be the next Italy?
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
确诊破千仍零病亡背后：德国防疫的真相是怎样的？。
Diagnosis is still zero behind the disease: What is the truth about vaccination in Germany?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "确诊破千仍零病亡背后：德国防疫的真相是怎样的？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "德国所有医保机构年均380亿欧元的支出在欧洲一枝独秀，远超法国的230亿欧元和英国的140亿欧元。
var msg _ desc = & quot; all German health-care providers spend €38 billion a year in Europe, far more than France's €23 billion and Britain's €14 billion.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
