法国已是欧洲第二大疫区，欧盟仅剩一国新冠零病例。
France is already Europe's second-most-affected region, leaving the EU with only one new case.
田思奇。
Tennessee.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国记者：田思奇“ 塞浦路斯成为欧盟“硕果仅存”的国家。
Source: Visual Chinese Journalist: Tian Siqi "Cyprus has become the only country left in the EU."
法国已宣布全境禁止集体活动的人数上限从5000下调至1000，德国也实施了类似规定。
France has lowered the maximum number of people banned from holding mass events across the country from 5,000 to 1,000, and Germany has introduced similar rules.
”两天内，法国确诊病例接近翻倍，成为欧洲疫情第二严重的国家，仅次于意大利。
Within two days, France had nearly doubled the number of confirmed cases, making it the second most affected country in Europe, after Italy.
截至当地时间3月8日15点，法国已通报1126例新冠肺炎确诊病例，其中死亡病例增至19例。
By 1500 local time on March 8, France had reported 1,126 confirmed cases of new crown pneumonia, with the number of deaths rising to 19.
为遏制疫情扩散，法国将叫停1000人以上的大型活动，部分中小学开始停课。
To stem the spread of the epidemic, France will suspend large-scale activities for more than 1,000 people and some primary and secondary schools.
8日晚，法国总统马克龙就疫情再次召开部长级特别国防会议。
On the evening of the 8th, French President Marc Ronny again convened a special national defense conference at ministerial level on the epidemic.
卫生部长韦兰会后表示，法国仍处在抗疫第二阶段，即工作重点依然是减缓新型冠状病毒在法国本土的传播。
Health Minister Whelan said after the meeting that France is still in the second phase of the fight against the disease, which is still focused on slowing the spread of the new coronavirus in mainland France.
但有官员表示，法国冠状病毒警戒级别将不可避免地从2级上升到3级。
But officials said the French coronavirus alert level will inevitably rise from level 2 to level 3.
在疫情较为严重的北部瓦兹省（Oise）和上莱茵省（Haut-Rhin），当地学校、托儿所和幼儿园将从周一（3月9日）开始停课两周。
In the more affected northern Vaz (Oise) and Haut-Rhine provinces, schools, nurseries and kindergartens will be closed for two weeks starting Monday (March 9).
法国其余94省学校正常上课。
The remaining 94 French provincial schools are functioning normally.
此前法国通过一项法令称，所有听从政府建议自我隔离的人士，以及孩子因新冠疫情无法上学的人士，都有权享受带薪病假。
Earlier, France passed a decree saying that all those who listen to government recommendations for self-segregation and those whose children are unable to attend school because of the new crown are entitled to paid sick leave.
据France24报道，马克龙在上周五向法国人建议限制拜访老年人的频率，因为老年人最易受传染。
On Friday, Macron advised the French to limit the frequency of visits to older people, who are most vulnerable, France24 reported.
马克龙承认这可能“令人心碎”，但表示该措施只是常识之一。
Mr Macron acknowledged that this could be "heartbreaking," but said the measure was only part of common sense.
到目前为止，在法国死亡的新冠肺炎确诊患者都是患基础性疾病的老年人。
So far, people diagnosed with Newcomial Pneumonia, who died in France, are elderly people with basic illnesses.
针对疫情发展趋势，韦兰宣布法国全境禁止集体活动的人数上限从5000下调至1000，不过各省行政长官可根据当地情况，对游行、考试、公共交通等必要的社会活动灵活处理。
In response to the epidemic, Whelan announced a cut in the number of people banned from holding mass events across France from 5,000 to 1,000, although prefects are free to respond flexibly to local conditions and other necessary social activities, such as parades, examinations and public transport.
预计这项新措施将对体育和娱乐活动产生重大影响。
This new measure is expected to have a significant impact on sports and recreational activities.
与法国类似，德国卫生部长施潘也在8日建议取消1000人以上的大型活动，未来几天将讨论如何减轻这一决定带来的经济后果。
Similar to France, German Health Minister Wolfgang Stöpp also proposed the cancellation of more than 1,000 people on the 8th, the next few days will discuss how to mitigate the economic consequences of this decision.
包括柏林旅游博览会在内的一些大型活动已经被取消，但斯潘认为其他组织者行动太慢。
Major events, including the Berlin tourism fair, have been canceled, but Spang believes the other organizers are too slow to act.
他表示：“想一想，在你的日常生活中有什么东西这么重要，以至于你在接下来的三个月里都离不开它，不论是夜店、家人庆生还是俱乐部会议。
"Think about what is so important in your daily life that you can't leave it for the next three months, be it a nightclub, a family birthday or a club meeting," he says.
”德国疾控机构罗伯特·科赫研究所公布的最新数据显示，截至当地时间8日15时，德国累计确诊新冠肺炎病例升至902例，较前一日增加107例，是欧洲确诊病例数第三多的国家。
The number of confirmed cases of new crown pneumonia in Germany rose to 902 at 1500 local time, 107 more than the previous day and the third highest number of confirmed cases in Europe, according to new figures released by the Robert Koch Institute, the German CDC.
而根据多家机构基于德国各州数据的实时统计，该国病例也已过千。
According to real-time statistics from several agencies based on data from all German states, the number of cases in the country has also exceeded 1,000.
欧盟议会此前宣布，3月9日开始的这周，会议地点将从法国东部的斯特拉斯堡转移到比利时首都布鲁塞尔。
The European Parliament has announced that this week, which begins on March 9, the venue will be moved from Strasbourg in eastern France to Brussels, Belgium.
与此同时，比利时已确诊200例新冠肺炎，包括两名欧盟总部的工作人员。
Meanwhile, Belgium has confirmed 200 new cases of pneumonia, including two European Union headquarters staff.
葡萄牙总统府网站8日发表声明说，总统德索萨因曾接见的学生所在学校出现新冠肺炎确诊病例，将主动接受两周隔离，取消所有原定公务活动。
President Jose Mourinho will be held in solitary confinement for two weeks to cancel all official functions, the presidential website said in a statement Wednesday.
声明说，德索萨表示应该给大家作出表率。
De Souza said he should lead by example, the statement said.
该国8日新增9例确诊病例，累计病例数达到30例。
The country on the 8th new 9 confirmed cases, the cumulative number of cases reached 30.
在疫情最严重的意大利，意大利政府宣布从8日开始封锁意大利北部伦巴第大区及分布在威尼托、艾米利亚-罗马涅、皮埃蒙特和马尔凯大区的14个省，除工作特殊原因及紧急状况外禁止出入。
In Italy, where the epidemic is most severe, the Italian Government announced on the 8th the closure of the region of Lombardy in northern Italy and 14 provinces in the regions of Veneto, Emilia-Romagna, Piedmont and Marquez, with the exception of special reasons for work and emergencies.
违反封锁令的人可被处以罚款或三个月监禁，如有必要，意政府将出动军队。
Violations of the embargo are punishable by a fine or three months' imprisonment and, if necessary, by the Italian Government.
该封城法令由总理孔特在8日凌晨签署，从当天零时开始实施，暂定于4月3日结束，预计将影响至少1600万人、即意大利人口的四分之一，热门旅游地米兰和威尼斯也都将受到影响。
The decree, signed by Prime Minister Konte in the early hours of August and tentatively scheduled to end on April 3, is expected to affect at least 16 million people, or a quarter of Italy's population, as well as the popular tourist destinations of Milan and Venice.
到目前为止，欧洲国家之间开放的边界暂不受影响。
So far, the open borders between European countries have not been affected.
截至8日晚间，意大利累计确诊7375例新冠肺炎，一度超越韩国成为海外疫情最严重国家，也是全球新冠病毒感染数量百万占比第二高的国家，每100万人中有121.9人感染，仅次于韩国（142.1）。
By the end of the 8th night, Italy had diagnosed 7,375 new cases of pneumonia, surpassing South Korea as the worst-affected country and the world's second-highest percentage of new infections, with 121.9 per million people, behind South Korea (142.1).
值得注意的是，意大利新冠肺炎致死率接近5%。
It is worth noting that the death rate from pneumonia in Italy is close to 5%.
相对来说，按照截至8日的数据，伊朗病死率为2.96%，韩国为0.68%。
In relative terms, the fatality rate was 2.96 per cent in Iran and 0.68 per cent in South Korea as of August 8.
保加利亚8日首次宣布，该国目前已有4例新冠肺炎确诊病例，成为又一发现确诊病例的欧盟国家。
Bulgaria on the 8th announced that the country now has four cases of confirmed cases of new crown pneumonia, is another EU country to find confirmed cases.
此外，马耳他和斯洛伐克分别在7日首次通报确诊病例。
In addition, Malta and Slovakia reported their first confirmed cases on 7 July.
截至发稿，27个欧盟成员国中仅剩塞浦路斯尚未发现确诊病例。
At the time of writing, only Cyprus, out of the 27 EU member States, had not detected confirmed cases.
在接受法国电台采访时，欧盟单一市场专员蒂埃里·布雷顿表示，欧盟“每个国家都根据各自最新的数据采取行动”，“病毒在某些地方比在其他地方传播得更快，所以每个地方的措施自然不同。
In an interview with Radio France, Thierry Bretton, the EU's single-market commissioner, said that the EU "acts on the basis of each country's latest data" and that "the virus spreads faster in some places than in others, so measures are naturally different everywhere."
”其他确诊病例数较多的欧洲国家还包括：西班牙（613）、瑞士（281）、英国（273）、荷兰（265）、瑞典（203）等。
Other European countries with high numbers of confirmed cases include Spain (613), Switzerland (281), the United Kingdom (273), the Netherlands (265) and Sweden (203).
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
法国已是欧洲第二大疫区，欧盟仅剩一国新冠零病例。
France is already Europe's second-most-affected region, leaving the EU with only one new case.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "法国已是欧洲第二大疫区，欧盟仅剩一国新冠零病例";。
var msg _ title = & quot; France is Europe's second-most-affected region, with only one new EU country at & quot;;.
var msg_desc = "塞浦路斯成为欧盟“硕果仅存”的国家。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Cyprus is the last remaining EU country.
法国已宣布全境禁止集体活动的人数上限从5000下调至1000，德国也实施了类似规定。
France has lowered the maximum number of people banned from holding mass events across the country from 5,000 to 1,000, and Germany has introduced similar rules.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
