连载·黄冈日记③｜两位患者：咳嗽多日都当感冒在应付_直击现场_澎湃新闻-The Paper。
+ 2 + + + + + + +, + + + + + + + + +, + cough for days while coping with a cold at the scene of _ direct strike, The Paper.
报料。
News feed.
注册。
Registration.
登录。
Login.
下载APP。
Download APP.
精选。
Selected.
抗疫。
Anti-epidemic.
抗疫防控新型冠状病毒肺炎。
Anti-epidemic control of new coronavirus pneumonia.
。
.
视频。
Video.
上直播。
Live broadcast.
拉近你与现场距离。
Bring you closer to the scene.
七环视频。
Seven-ring video.
为了更美好的生活。
For a better life.
温度计。
Thermometers.
深度记录社会冷暖。
Depth of record society warm and cold.
一级视场。
Level 1 field of view.
及时现场，洞察财经事件。
On-site, insight into financial issues.
World湃。
World surging.
看见新闻全球化。
See the globalization of information.
湃客科技。
Pai guest technology.
聚焦前沿，展现新兴企业。
Focus on the frontier and showcase emerging businesses.
纪录湃。
The record runs high.
纪录澎湃中国。
China is on record.
围观。
Look around.
以影像介入社会生活。
Imaging into social life.
@所有人。
@ All.
所有人在看。
Everyone's watching.
大都会。
Metropolis.
看上海 最都会。
It's the best city in Shanghai.
追光灯。
Searchlight.
让你看到文艺生活。
Let you see the literary life.
运动装。
Sportswear.
直观运动，可以装不要伪装。
Intuitive movement, can be installed without camouflage.
健寻记。
Health care.
追寻活到一百岁的秘诀。
The secret to living to be a hundred years old.
AI播报。
AI announces.
互联网新闻+：AI播报。
Internet news +: AI broadcasts.
眼界。
Eye-catching.
每日一条视频，与新闻同步。
One video per day, synced with the news.
时事。
Current affairs.
中国政库洞悉中国动向的时政解读。
China's treasurer has insight into the current state of affairs in China.
中南海权威细致的领导人报道。
Zhongnanhai authority meticulous leader report.
舆论场倾听复杂世界的弦外之音。
Opinion circles listen to the implications of the complex world.
打虎记中国反腐报道第一平台。
Tiger Kit China Anti-Corruption Report First Platform.
人事风向快速专业的人事信息集合地。
Personnel wind speed and professional collection of personnel information.
法治中国司改风向，法治观察。
Rule of Law China Division wind direction, rule of law observation.
一号专案司法个案，法治调查。
Ad hoc Judicial Case No. 1, Rule of Law Investigations.
港台来信感觉不一样的港台报道。
RTHK's letter feels different from RTHK's report.
长三角政商解读区域政情与财富故事。
The Yangtze River Delta political and economic interpretation of regional political and wealth story.
直击现场第一现场，文图视频直播。
Click on the scene of the first scene, text video live.
公益湃记录公益发展，共建责任生态。
Public welfare record of public welfare development, jointly build ecological responsibility.
。
.
暖闻人间真善美，社会正能量。
Hear the world is good and beautiful, society is positive energy.
。
.
澎湃质量报告打假除劣，破套防坑——专注消费者权益保护。
Pai Pai quality report to fight fraud and shoddy, broken pit - focus on consumer rights and interests protection.
绿政公署环境与公共健康调查。
Environmental and Public Health Survey of the Green Administration.
澎湃国际All News In。
All News In, Peng Pai.
外交学人New World Order。
Diplomat New World Order.
澎湃防务Cyclopedia for military。
Cyclopedia for military defence.
唐人街海外利益，华人故事。
Overseas Interests in Chinatown, Chinese Stories.
澎湃人物提供最有态度的人物报道。
The roaring characters provide the most critical coverage of the characters.
浦江头条上海每天最重要的事件。
The most important events of the day in Shanghai.
教育家最先进的教育理念在此碰撞。
Educators' most advanced educational ideas collide here.
全景现场360度感识全景现场。
Panoramic scene 360-degree panorama scene.
美数课数字是骨骼，设计是灵魂。
Numbers are bones; design is the soul.
快看快看，图片会说话。
Look quick. Pictures talk.
财经。
Finance.
10%公司派发上市公司变革红利。
10 per cent distribute change dividends to listed companies.
能见度能源行业最具穿透力的思想。
Visibility The most penetrating thinking in the energy industry.
地产界地产界所有你想知道的事儿。
Real estate Everything you want to know.
财经上下游跨界找寻市场常识。
Cross-boundary market common sense.
金改实验室金融创新灵感集散地。
Financial innovation center of Jinchang Lab.
牛市点线面简单专业时尚的财富平台。
Bull market simple professional fashion wealth platform.
科技湃让我们走近科学。
Technology has brought us closer to science.
澎湃商学院品牌课外书，生活经济学。
Peng Pai Business School Brand Extracurricular Books, Life Economics.
自贸区连线自贸区第一信息和服务平台。
Free Trade Area line free trade area first information and service platform.
进博会在线走进中国国际进口博览会。
Into the Fair online into China International Import Expo.
澎湃号。
'cried the roar.
湃客。
The roar.
政务。
Government affairs.
媒体。
The media.
思想。
Ideas.
社论澎湃的立场。
The editorial was strong.
澎湃评论在这里知道更多。
Pai Pai comments know more here.
思想湃明亮的对话，澎湃的思想。
Thoughts of bright dialogue, surging thoughts.
上海书评全球百位华文写作名家撰稿。
The Shanghai Book Review is written by 100 leading Chinese writers.
思想市场有竞争的思想讲底蕴的政治。
The thought market has the competitive thought to speak the underlying politics.
私家历史发现历史之美。
Private history finds the beauty of history.
翻书党微时代的首选书单。
Turn over the book party microage first choice book list.
艺术评论独立态度解析中外艺术热点。
Artistic Comment Independent Attitude Analyzes the Hot Spots of Chinese and Foreign Art.
古代艺术巡礼人类的艺术遗产。
Ancient Art Parades the artistic heritage of mankind.
文化课关注人文景观投身人类文明。
Cultural courses focus on humanistic landscape into human civilization.
逝者记录逝者为世界留下的财富。
The dead record the wealth left to the world by the dead.
澎湃研究所为中国城市问题提供澎湃方案。
The Peng Pai Institute offers a robust programme on urban issues in China.
。
.
市政厅中国城市问题专家。
City Hall of China experts on urban issues.
城市漫步人塑造地方，地方也塑造人。
Urban strollers shape places, and places shape people.
智库报告展示全球最具价值的智库研究成果。
The think tank report showcases the world's most valuable think tank research.
专栏名家专家，上天入地。
An expert columnist.
异次元打破次元壁。
Heterogeneous element breaks the secondary wall.
生活。
Life.
有戏陪你过一种审美的生活。
Have a play to accompany you to live an aesthetic life.
文艺范一线文艺生活。
Literary and artistic life.
身体探索身体的奥秘。
The body explores the secrets of the body.
私·奔跑步是一种态度。
Personal running is an attitude.
运动家看体育如何改变世界。
Athletes see how sport can change the world.
私家地理旅途的旨趣、技艺以及乡愁。
The Purport, Skill, and Nostalgia of the Private Geographic Journey.
非常品用态度引领时尚。
A very good attitude leads to fashion.
楼市不一样的楼市观察。
Different property market observation.
生活方式更好生活，我们有一些意见。
We have some suggestions for a better way of life.
澎湃联播半个段子兽半个评论猿。
Half a section of the beast commented on apes.
视界视界观，观世界。
Look at the world, look at the world.
亲子学堂理解孩子，认知自己。
Parents and children learn to understand their children, know themselves.
赢家直击中国体育产业生存现状。
Winners strike at the survival of China's sports industry.
汽车圈专注汽车产经报道。
Auto industry focus on the auto industry report.
问吧。
'he asked.
订阅。
Subscriptions.
把你最喜欢的栏目添加到这里来哦。
Add your favorite column here.
马上登录。
Sign in now.
setMsgMark(); //login异步之后调用位置修改。
Call location modification after setMsgMark; / / login asynchronous.
// 顶部广告自适应。
/ / Top Advertising Adaptability.
// xml返回了creativeHeight。
/ / xml returned creativeLight.
//图片拓展图片时。
/ / Photo when expanding the picture.
if(typeof(xml.find("Cexpansion")[0])!="undefined"){   //是否需要展开。
If (typeof (xml. find; Cempansion & quot;) & # 91; 0 & # 93;)! = & quot; underdefined & quot;) {/ / whether it needs to be carried out.
var cexpansion = xml.find("Cexpansion")[0].textContent.trim();//展开时。
var text = xml. find (& quot; Cempansion & quot;) & # 91; 0 & # 93; .text Content.
//图片拓展视频时   。
/ / Photo when expanding the video.
//视频拓展视频时。
/ / Video when expanding the video.
//收起广告。
/ / Put the ad away.
//将 http://或者https:// 转为//。
/ / Conversion from http: / / https: / / to /.
首页。
Home page.
> 直击现场。
Running straight to the scene.
连载·黄冈日记③｜两位患者：咳嗽多日都当感冒在应付。
less than one + less + less + less than + less than +: Coughing has been coping with a cold for days.
特邀作者 程定琴 郝诗光 梦轩 金昊 澎湃新闻记者 方岸 杜心羽 吴佳颖 实习生 李佳悦 整理。
Invited author Cheng Ding-Hao Shi Hsiang dream Xuan Jin Hao Jing Pai journalist Fang Xin Yu Wu Jia Ying intern Li Jiayue tidy up.
2020-03-08 07:41 来源：澎湃新闻。
2020-03-08 07: 41 Source: news surging.
字号。
The font size.
超大。
Extremely large.
大。
Big.
标准。
Standards.
小。
Small.
【专题】防控新冠肺炎。
Topic: Prevention and control of new crown pneumonia.
连载·黄冈日记①｜“穿防护服戴口罩和护目镜”的人突然来了。
The man in protective clothing, masks, and goggles suddenly appeared.
连载·黄冈日记②｜科室住满新冠肺炎患者，5位同事被感染。
Liu Zai Huang Gang's diary, full of patients with Newly crowned Pneumonia, 5 colleagues were infected.
【编者按】新冠病毒给湖北乃至全国带来一场危机，黄冈是这场疫情的重灾区之一。
The new crown virus brings a crisis to Hubei and even to the whole country. Huanggang is one of the hardest hit areas of the epidemic.
在这场战役中，黄冈人经历了旁观-卷入-创伤-斗争-反思的过程。
In this battle, the Huanggang people experienced the process of watching-involved-traumatizing-fighting-introspection.
我们用亲历者日记连载的形式，试图纵深还原疫情侵袭下的黄冈这60天。
We tried to restore Huanggang to 60 days under the attack of the epidemic in the form of a diary series of relatives.
1月18日，黄冈市中心医院呼吸内科医生办公室，医护们穿着防护服拍了张合影照【程定琴：黄冈市中心医院呼吸内科护士】1月18日今天我们终于有了战袍——医用防护服。
January 18, the central hospital in Huanggang City Respiratory Physician's Office, medical personnel wearing protective clothing took a photo [Cheng Ding Qin: Huang Gang City Central Hospital Respiratory Medicine Nurse] Today, January 18, we finally have a war robe - medical protective clothing.
我们呼吸内科成为医院首个收治新冠肺炎的隔离点，也只能算是集中收治，因为我们病房就是普通病房，暂时达不到隔离病房的要求，患者跟我们医务人员的空间是相通的。
Our Department of Respiratory Medicine became the hospital's first isolation facility for new crown pneumonia, and it was a centralized one, as our ward was a general ward, temporarily unable to meet the isolation ward's requirements, and the patient and our medical staff had the same space.
今天终于能有防护服，我们都高兴坏了，因为我们知道终于多了一道防护，多了一份安全。
Today, we were happy to finally have protective clothing, because we know that we finally have one more defense, one more safety.
我们科室早已收满，医院已经出现一些类似病患难以收治的情况，希望尽快有好的解决办法。
Our department has been full, the hospital has a number of similar patients difficult to accept the situation, hope to have a good solution as soon as possible.
科室已经越来越忙了。
Departments have become increasingly busy.
为了防止病人家属被感染，我们已经清除了所有的陪护家属。
In order to prevent the infection of the patient's family, we have removed all accompanying family members.
不方便下床的患者的生活方面担子全都落在我们医护人员身上。
The burden of life for the inconvenient patients falls entirely on our medical staff.
每天除了给患者做最基本的治疗，输液，换药，采集动静脉血标本，吸氧，雾化，上下呼吸机，高流氧治疗……还要给他们打开水，倒茶，丢垃圾，搀扶下床大小便，翻身，换床单被套，倒尿壶便盆，甚至给卧床不起的患者换尿不湿擦身体。
In addition to the most basic daily treatment, infusion, drug exchange, collection of ambulatory blood samples, oxygen absorption, atomization, up and down breathing machine, high-flow oxygen treatment... open water, pour tea, throw trash, help out the bed, turn over, change the bedspread coverlet, empty the urinal basin, and even wash the body of the bedridden patient.
一日三餐家属送到门口，我们接过来转交给患者。
Three meals a day family members to the door, we took over and handed over to the patients.
一天忙下来，有时连喝水的时间都没有。
I'm busy all day and sometimes I don't even have time to drink.
下班的时候，我们每个人把防护服小心翼翼地脱下来，写上自己的名字，叠好，放入准备好的袋子里，留着明天上班穿。
At the end of the day, each of us took off his suit carefully, wrote down his name, folded it up, put it in a ready-made bag, and kept it for tomorrow's work.
因为我们整个科室领到的防护服都不够人均一件，丢了可能明天就没有，就要继续“裸奔”上班。
Because our entire department has not received enough protective clothing per person, lost may not have tomorrow, to continue to "run naked" to work.
偏偏这个时候我又不争气地感冒了，咽痛，嗓子哑了，还偶有咳嗽。
At this time I also did not air cold, sore throat, hoarse voice, but also occasionally cough.
下班后偷偷量了体温，庆幸还好没发烧，不过心里也隐隐担忧起来。
After work secretly took a temperature, lucky is not feverish, but the heart also faintly worried.
想到形势严峻了，又赶紧给家里打了电话。
Thinking that the situation was serious, he phoned home quickly.
我姐接的电话，嗓子已经哑得厉害，说话很是吃力，但我还是很认真地跟她讲述这次事情的严重性，一再强调让他们不要出门，就算要出门一定要戴好口罩。
My sister answered the phone, her voice was very mute and she spoke with great difficulty, but I told her the seriousness of the incident and insisted that they should not go out, even if they had to wear masks.
为了让他们重视起来，我甚至搬出了“非典”，说这次疫情跟“非典”有得一比。
To get them to think about it, I even moved out of SARS, saying the outbreak was comparable to SARS.
我在电话这边很认真很吃力跟他们讲严重性时，他们在那边自顾聊天嘻嘻哈哈，俨然一副我在吓唬他们的模样，我当时很生气发了脾气。
When I was on the other end of the line talking seriously and trying to tell them the seriousness, they were talking and laughing to themselves as if I was scaring them, and I was angry and angry.
挂了电话后我放声哭了起来，我觉得他们好过分，不理解我，也感觉自己好无助，也为自己咳嗽几天不见好转担忧。
When I hung up the phone and cried, I thought they were too much, didn't understand me, and felt helpless and worried about my cough for a few days.
【梦轩：已愈新冠肺炎患者】18日这天接到在深圳上班的哥哥的电话。
Mengxuan: I've got a call from my brother who works in Shenzhen on the 18th.
哥哥听我描述了症状，立即问我是否知道最近武汉的“新型冠状病毒肺炎”消息。
My brother heard me describe the symptoms and immediately asked me if I knew of the recent Wuhan "new coronavirus pneumonia" news.
我一无所知，平常除了偶尔看看抖音里的信息，我并不太看新闻报道。
I don't know anything about it. I don't usually read the news except for the occasional quiver.
这段时间，我在黄冈的朋友圈也并没有传出任何关于武汉“新冠肺炎”的消息。
During this time, my friends in Huanggang did not have any news about "new crown pneumonia" in Wuhan.
哥哥也是从新闻媒体了解到武汉“新冠肺炎”的信息。
Brother also learned from the news media Wuhan "new crown pneumonia" information.
他大概给我说了下从华南海鲜市场的“不明肺炎”到武汉市卫健委公开发布“新型冠状病毒肺炎”的过程，告诉我武汉得这种病的人已经出现死亡案例，催我赶紧再去医院检查。
He probably told me about the "unknown pneumonia" in the south China seafood market to the public launch of the "new coronavirus pneumonia" by Wuhan Health Commission, told me that the Wuhan people with this disease has died, urged me to go back to the hospital.
当天傍晚，我赶紧再去之前检查过的医院。
That evening, I hurried back to the hospital I had checked before.
抽血、CT 检查，果然查出了肺部有感染，但我当时除了高烧、咳嗽，并没有其他症状。
Extraction, CT examination, sure enough found that there was an infection in the lung, but I was in addition to high fever, cough, and no other symptoms.
医生问询我近期有没有到过武汉，我回答“没有”。
The doctor asked me if I had been to Wuhan recently, and I replied "No."
确实我最近二十多天一直待在黄冈。
Indeed I have been staying in Huanggang for more than twenty days.
与前几天的情况不同，此时这家医院的医生应该知晓了武汉“新冠肺炎”的情况。
Unlike the previous days, doctors at the hospital should have known about Wuhan's "New Crown Pneumonia."
没有迟疑，医生给我开了住院单。
Without hesitation, the doctor gave me an admission slip.
我给家人打过电话，不再回家，当场就办好入住医院手续。
I called my family, stopped coming home and checked into the hospital on the spot.
19日昨晚入院，我心情格外平静，躺在病床上发着高烧，用输液的那只手发了条朋友圈：“如果老天给我重生的机会，我一定好好善待自己！”那时除了43℃高烧不退，感觉呼吸也有些困难。
I was admitted to the hospital last night. I lay in a bed with a high fever, and with the infusion hand I sent a circle of friends saying: "If God gives me a chance to be born again, I will be kind to myself!"
当时我就在想：我还这么年轻，一生善良，老天爷不会让我就这样被疫情击垮吧。
At that time I was thinking: I am still so young, a good life, God will not let me be defeated by the epidemic.
于是我的心安静下来，慢慢呼吸，只要有一口气，就证明我还可以活着。
So my heart quieted down and breathed slowly, just to have a breath, to prove that I can still live.
就这样我凌晨四点醒过来，一睁开眼睛就看向窗外，特别期待看到清晨的阳光。
So I woke up at four in the morning and opened my eyes and looked out the window, looking especially for the early morning sun.
回想一下，我最近一次去武汉是去年12月中旬。
In retrospect, the last time I went to Wuhan was in mid-December last year.
2019年12月21日晚香港歌手陈慧娴在宜昌开演唱会。
Hong Kong singer CHAN Wai-han held a concert in Yichang on December 21, 2019.
陈慧娴是我们这种80后喜爱的香港女歌星之一，那时候正好没事，老早就买好票，约好朋友一起去观看。
Chen Huixian was one of our favorite Hong Kong singers after 80 years. It happened to be fine. She had already bought a good ticket and made an appointment with her friends.
那晚，宜昌奥林匹克中心体育馆非常火热，陈慧娴似乎重返青春，唱跳全开，现场还用二胡、古筝、笛子等民族乐器重新编排了几首经典歌曲。
That night, Yichang Olympic Center Stadium is very hot, Chen Huihan seems to return to youth, singing and dancing full open, the scene with Erhu, Guzheng, flute and other national musical instruments rearranged several classic songs.
演唱会结束，我与朋友在宜昌住了一晚。
At the end of the concert, I spent a night in Yichang with my friends.
第二天返回武汉，住到江夏区朋友家中，中午也曾与三四位朋友一起在附近饭店吃饭。
The next day back to Wuhan, living in Jiangxia friends home, and at noon with three or four friends in a nearby restaurant.
其时，江夏的饭店、商场都顾客盈门。
At that time, Jiangxia's restaurants, shopping malls are full of customers.
年前的最后几天，武汉市民们要么忙着置办年货，要么与亲朋好友年前聚餐，也没见到丝毫的紧张氛围。
In the last few days of the year, Wuhan residents were either too busy buying New Year's Eve goods or dining with relatives and friends.
当时，华南海鲜市场等“不明肺炎”病例尚未公开。
At that time, South China seafood market and other "unknown pneumonia" cases have not been made public.
在武汉朋友家住了2天，去年12月23日傍晚，我返回黄冈，一直待在黄州再没离开。
I stayed at my friend's house in Wuhan for two days. On the evening of December 23 last year, I returned to Huanggang and stayed in Huangzhou forever.
今年元月3日，黄冈市开“两会”，我是市政协委员需要参会，一直到7日“两会”结束。
On January 3 this year, the City of Huanggang held "two sessions," I was a member of the Municipal Association need to attend, until the end of the "two sessions.
黄冈市万达广场的商场、餐饮店前仍然有大量顾客排队消费7日到11日，我每天基本居家。
Shopping malls and restaurants in Wanda Square, Huanggang City, still have a large number of customers queuing up to spend 7 to 11, I basic home every day.
我家离黄冈万达广场近，有时候我会带孩子去那里吃饭。
My home is near Wanda Square in Huanggang. Sometimes I take my children there for dinner.
万达广场是一家开业不到两年的大型综合体，餐饮、服装、卖场、影院、教辅机构等应有尽有，是黄冈消费休闲人气最旺的地方。
Wanda Square is a large-scale complex opened less than two years ago, catering, clothing, shops, cinemas, teaching assistants and so on, Huanggang consumer leisure popularity is the most popular place.
记得有一天傍晚，我和孩子在一家自助餐店吃饭。
I remember eating in a cafeteria with my kids one evening.
店门口排着长龙，大多都是带孩子的家庭或者情侣。
There are long queues at the door, mostly families or couples with children.
排了半个小时才进店，店内当然也全都满座。
It took half an hour to get into the store and of course it was all full.
其实不仅这家店，饭点时间，商场里多数餐饮店都有食客在排队。
In fact, not only this shop, meal time, most restaurants in the shopping mall have diners in line.
超市、卖场也是人挤人，服装店铺虽然没有人满为患，也不乏顾客。
Supermarkets and stores are also crowded, although clothing stores are not overcrowded, but there is no shortage of customers.
三天时间我去商场三趟，哪一天都是热气腾腾的景象。
I went to the shopping mall three times in three days. It was a steaming day.
还有一点，商场的顾客、营业员等，几乎所有人都没有戴口罩。
Also, the shopping malls customers, salespeople, and so on, almost all do not wear masks.
现在回想起来，我已没办法确认可能是哪个场合被感染。
In retrospect, I have no way to confirm which occasion I might have been infected.
但大概率来说，参加黄冈“两会”期间，被感染的可能性不大。
But high probability, participate in the "two sessions" Huanggang, the likelihood of infection is not very high.
这期间与我紧密接触的人，后来都没有人确诊“新冠肺炎”。
None of the people with whom I was in close contact later confirmed New Crown Pneumonia.
直到15日之前，我的一帮朋友应该也不太了解武汉“新冠肺炎”的信息，至少不知道这事情的严重性。
Until the 15th, a group of my friends probably didn't know much about Wuhan New Crown Pneumonia, or at least the severity of the incident.
记得15日前后我在家发烧，我把发烧等症状发了一条朋友圈，四五十个朋友在后面留言，说是“季节性感冒”，嘱咐“多喝开水”；没有一条留言提醒我警惕“新冠肺炎”。
I remember having a fever at home about 15 days ago. I sent a group of friends with fever and other symptoms. Forty or fifty friends left a message saying "seasonal flu" and "drink more water"; none warned me of the "New Crown Pneumonia."
19日是我住院的第二天，开始接受输液治疗。
19 is my second day in hospital, began to receive infusion treatment.
白天我不停打寒战，晚上持续高烧。
I shivered during the day and had a high fever at night.
可我不想让家人太担心，一一电话通知家人，让大家放心，也嘱咐他们尽量不要出门，出门一定要戴口罩；安排家人照顾好孩子，让他们不要到医院来探望，就怕万一被感染。
But I don't want my family to worry too much. Call them one by one to reassure them and tell them to keep quiet and wear masks when they go out.
【金昊：已愈新冠肺炎患者】1月19日近几日天气降温后，家里开了暖气，被子有点盖厚了。
Jin Hao: The Grown Pneumonia Patient: After the weather cooled in recent days on January 19, the house was heated and the quilt was a bit thick.
可能上火或者晚上踢了被子，有点轻微干咳。
May get hot or kick the quilt at night, a little dry cough.
应该是感冒了，也没特别在意。
It must have been a cold. I didn't pay much attention.
但聚餐去得少了。
But there's less going to parties.
19日还是轻微干咳。
19 or mild dry cough.
昨天晚上几个朋友在“胡桃里”音乐餐厅聚餐。
Several friends were having dinner at the Nutcracker music restaurant last night.
这家餐厅大堂的中央有个舞台，有音响设备和话筒。
In the middle of the dining hall there is a stage with sound equipment and a microphone.
大家一边吃饭一边K歌，从晚上七点一直到深夜。
We ate and sang a K song from seven in the evening until late at night.
凌晨时分，一个朋友喝大了，我们叫了辆救护车把他送去黄冈市中医医院急诊科。
A friend got drunk in the early hours of the morning and we called an ambulance to take him to the emergency department of Huanggang Chinese Medical Hospital.
医院不知道出于什么考虑，让我朋友从急诊科转到住院部呼吸科的病房。
For some reason, the hospital referred my friend from the emergency department to the inpatient respiratory ward.
这个过程中，我负责推着朋友的转移病床，又和另外的朋友一起抬他上住院部的病床。
In the process, I pushed my friend's transfer bed and carried him to the hospital bed with another friend.
（注：事后想想此时有可能感染，如果感染可能是因为当时我处于感冒状态，抵抗力较低。
(Note: Think back and think about the possibility of infection. If the infection might have been due to my colds, my resistance was low.
因为，事后问了和我一起去的另外两个朋友、喝醉的那个朋友和后来过来照顾他的父母，他们均没感染。
Because, after the fact, asked me to go with two other friends, drunk that friend and later came to care for his parents, they were not infected.
）【郝诗光：江岸名都小区综合党支部书记，业委会副主任】1月20日 孩子参加完到武警部队和战士联欢过年的活动，开开心心地回英山老家了。
Hao Shi-guang: The secretary of the comprehensive Party branch of the Riverside Famous Duct District, deputy director of the Industry CommitteeOn January 20th, the children took part in the activities of celebrating the New Year with the armed police forces and soldiers, and returned to their hometown of Yingshan happily.
扳着指头，年前的工作差不多扫尾完毕，该放假的放假，我也可以休息几天。
Wrench finger, the work of years ago almost finished, the vacation of the holiday, I can also rest for a few days.
2019年于我而言，并不是顺风顺水的一年，世事无常，经常被无形的压力压得喘不过气来。
2019 is not a good year for me, a year of uncertainty, often overwhelmed by invisible pressures.
有朋友自宜昌来，在他下榻的宾馆里闲聊了一会儿后出去吃饭。
A friend came from Yichang and spent a little time chatting in his hotel before going out for dinner.
从空调房里走出来，被冷风所袭，接连打了几个喷嚏，口袋里的纸巾都不够用了。
Out of the air-conditioned room, hit by the cold wind, hit a few sneezes in a row, the paper towels in the pocket are not enough.
到餐厅吃饭的时候，看电视上钟南山先生说到先前武汉发生的不明肺炎“肯定会人传人”，我下意识地打了一个喷嚏，把朋友吓了一跳。
While eating in the restaurant, Mr. Zhong Nan-shan on TV said the previously unknown pneumonia in Wuhan "will certainly pass from person to person," and I involuntarily sneezed, startling my friend.
朋友开玩笑说，今天晚上咱们幸好没点什么野味，不然搞不好也得中招。
My friend joked that we were lucky not to order any game this evening, or we might have to play catch.
从餐厅出来，发现路上有不少人都戴了口罩。
After coming out of the restaurant, I found many people wearing masks on the road.
这使我联想到刚才电视上播出的内容，看来我自己也得备一套了。
This brings me to what I saw on TV just now, and I think I have to have one myself.
从超市出来的人络绎不绝，大包小包地拎在手上，得意而又疲惫。
People come from the supermarket, carrying bags in their hands, proud and tired.
突然发现，我的年货还没有办呢。
Suddenly found that my new year's goods have not been done.
【程定琴：黄冈市中心医院呼吸内科护士】1月20日伟大的钟南山院士出来说话了，说新冠肺炎“肯定人传人”。
Cheng Ding-qin: Department of Respiratory Medicine Nurse, Huanggang Central Hospital January 20 The great Academician Zhong Nan Shan came out and said that the new crown pneumonia "is sure to pass from person to person."
一时间朋友圈、微博、抖音刷的全是这个消息，人们终于重视起来了。
For a while, friends circle, micro-blog, shake off the brush is all this information, people finally pay attention to it.
也有人开始害怕了，口罩成了稀缺品，各个地方戴口罩的人多了起来；医护人员成了逆行而上的英雄。
Others are beginning to fear that masks are becoming scarce, that more people are wearing masks everywhere, and that health-care workers are retrograde heroes.
这个时候黄冈疫情已经很严重了，但我们都清楚武汉更严重，大家都知道武汉华南海鲜市场引发的“不明肺炎”原来不是谣传了。
By this time Huanggang epidemic has been very serious, but we all know Wuhan is more serious, we all know Wuhan South China seafood market caused by "unknown pneumonia" is not rumored.
我们每天怀着一颗忐忑不安的心上班。
We go to work every day with a heart that feels insecure.
医院里的防护用品比较紧缺，到今天我们还穿着1月18日的防护服，不舍得也不敢丢。
There is a shortage of protective equipment in the hospital. Today we still wear the January 18th protective clothing.
一个N95的口罩也是戴两三天才敢换一个。
It takes two or three days for an N95 mask to change.
科室有些病人病情发展很快，这期间还有一个本院收费室的员工因为病情太重转至ICU治疗。
Some of the patients in the department developed rapidly, during which time one of our staff in the tollroom was referred to ICU for treatment.
而且住院的患者中，本院的医务人员占了一小半，光是收费室的就有6人，神经内科4人，我们呼吸内科的有5人。
In addition, the hospital has less than half of the hospitalized patients, 6 in the tollroom alone, 4 in neurology and 5 in respiratory medicine.
听说别的科室还陆续有人被感染。
Other departments have been reported to be infected.
医院特批，我们呼吸内科的医务人员可以免费做CT。
Special hospital approval, we respiratory medical staff can do CT free of charge.
拍CT算是比较方便的一种排查方法了，下班后科室同事相约去CT室一一登记，排队拍起了片子。
CT is a relatively convenient method of screening, after work office colleagues to the CT room to register one by one, queuing up for a film.
我的咳嗽一直没见好转，心里特别害怕自己也会“中招”。
My cough has not seen improvement, the heart is particularly afraid of their own "move."
拍完CT我第一时间联系了科室值班的医生，得到回复是我们都没问题，当时悬着的一颗心总算是放下了。
After filming CT I first contacted the doctor on duty in the department and got the reply that we were all OK.
我已经有好久没敢回家了，怕把病毒带回家。
I haven't dared to go home for a long time, afraid to bring the virus home.
下班后一直住在医院附近租的房子里，合租的两个闺蜜听我讲完科室情况也都吓得不轻，我这种亲身经历过的人竟然都没她们紧张恐惧。
I had been living in a rented house near the hospital after work, and the two girls who shared the house were horrified when I finished speaking.
距离过年没几天了，超市、街上、菜市场按照往常应该是热闹非凡。
Distance just a few days away, supermarkets, streets, Halles market should be as usual is extraordinary.
我已经好久没去逛街，每天下班累得不想动，只想躺床上休息。
I have not been shopping for a long time, every day tired from work do not want to move, just rest in bed.
想到家里人可能这两天会频繁上街采购年货，心里又担忧起来，忍不住又给家里打了电话。
Thinking that the family might be shopping for New Year's Eve frequently these two days, he became worried and could not help but call home again.
已经被我三番五次地强调新冠肺炎疫情的严重性，这几天，姐姐也在网上刷到相关信息，终于能听进我的劝告了，出门肯戴口罩了。
I have repeatedly stressed the severity of the new crown pneumonia, the last few days, my sister brush the relevant information on the Internet, can finally listen to my advice, go out to wear a mask.
农村的消息比较闭塞，听姐姐讲，戴口罩的人寥寥无几，还是没有意识到问题严重性。
Rural news is more isolated, listening to my sister, few people wearing masks, or not aware of the seriousness of the problem.
叮嘱老妈不要出门时，老妈居然说准备下午要去菜场买两只鸡。
When she told her not to go out, she said she was going to the market to buy two chickens this afternoon.
想到科室收治的第一个新冠肺炎病人孔先生是菜市场送货人员，妻子刘女士是超市售货员，两人同时住院。
Think of the department treatment of the first new crown pneumonia patient Mr. Kong is a vegetable market delivery personnel, wife Ms. Liu is a supermarket saleswoman, both are hospitalized.
接着住进来的好几位也都是菜市场员工。
Several of the people who came in were also vegetable market workers.
我隐隐觉得菜市场环境卫生差，人员密集，比较危险，立即劝阻老妈。
I vaguely feel that the Halles market poor sanitation, personnel-intensive, more dangerous, immediately dissuade Mom.
直到老妈答应，我才放心挂了电话。
I didn't hang up until Mom said yes.
孔先生刚住进来时还不像个病人，中途病情加重都没力气下床，这个病毒还是很可怕的，传染性这么强，他每天送货接触了多少人？他妻子刘女士是超市售货员，每天又跟多少人接触过呢？难怪这病人与日俱增。
When Mr. Kong first came in, he didn't look like a patient, he was not strong enough to get out of bed, the virus was still terrible, so contagious, how many people did he get in touch with every day?
【未完待续】(本文来自澎湃新闻，更多原创资讯请下载“澎湃新闻”APP)。
(This article is from Pai Pai News. For more original information, please download the "Peng Pai News" APP).
责任编辑：储静伟图片编辑：施佳慧校对：刘威。
Responsibility Editor: Jing Wei Shu, proofread by Christine Shih, proofread by Liu Wei.
澎湃新闻报料：4009-20-4009  澎湃新闻，未经授权不得转载。
Pai news: 4009-20-4009 surging news, not allowed to reproduce without authorization.
关键词 >> 抗疫日记,黄冈,抗疫。
Key words & gt; & gt; anti-epidemic diary, Huanggang, anti-epidemic.
收藏。
Collection.
跟踪: 抗疫日记。
Tracking: Anti-epidemic diary.
相关推荐。
Relevant recommendations.
图解｜湖北新冠肺炎新增确诊病例降至366例。
Illustration: The number of newly diagnosed cases of Xinguang pneumonia in Hubei dropped to 366.
图解｜3例：湖北除武汉外新冠肺炎新增确诊连续5日个位数。
Photo 3: Except Wuhan new crown pneumonia newly diagnosed in Hubei 5 consecutive days.
图解｜5例！湖北除武汉以外新冠肺炎新增确诊连续三天个位数。
Illustration: + + + + + + + + New cases of pneumonia in Hubei Province were diagnosed in three consecutive days.
评论（122）。
Comment (122).
热新闻。
Hot news.
一天。
One day.
三天。
Three days.
一周。
One week.
湖北潜江：26号通告取消，继续实行严格交通管制、人员管控。
Hubei buried river: Notice 26 canceled, continue to implement strict traffic control, personnel control.
曾手写遗书，感染新冠病毒的武汉大四女孩毕业前上“生死课”。
Once handwritten will, infected with the new crown virus Wuhan four-year-old girl before graduation "life and death lessons."
湖北：分区分级分类分时有序推进复工复产，继续延迟学校开学。
Hubei: Divisional classification according to time and order to promote the resumption of work, continue to delay the opening of schools.
中国红十字会组建7人抗疫专家组赴意大利。
Chinese Red Cross has set up 7-member anti-epidemic team to Italy.
美国新冠肺炎确诊病例超过1000例，累计死亡31人。
There were more than 1000 confirmed cases and 31 cumulative deaths in the US.
国家卫健委：昨日新增新冠肺炎确诊病例24例，湖北13例。
National Fitness and Health Commission: New cases were confirmed yesterday, 24 cases in Hubei Province and 13 cases in Hubei Province.
武汉市委原常委蔡杰等3人分别被决定逮捕。
Wuhan Municipal Committee of the original Standing Committee Cai Jie three people were arrested.
泉州坍塌酒店初步调查：建设、改造和审批等方面存在严重问题。
Quanzhou Hotel collapse preliminary investigation: construction, renovation and approval, there are serious problems.
武汉必将再一次被载入英雄史册！。
Wuhan will once again be recorded in the annals of heroes.
全球第二例艾滋治愈确认！停药两年半，终身缓解概率超99%。
The second global AIDS cure confirmed! Stop drugs for two and a half years, life-long remission probability over 99%.
湖北潜江：26号通告取消，继续实行严格交通管制、人员管控。
Hubei buried river: Notice 26 canceled, continue to implement strict traffic control, personnel control.
习近平总书记关切事｜携手下好一盘棋，京津冀战“疫”进行时。
Xi Jinping, the general secretary, was concerned about the plague when he joined hands to fight it.
这场人民战争统帅心中的三个“第一”。
The three "first" in the minds of the commander of the people's war.
曾手写遗书，感染新冠病毒的武汉大四女孩毕业前上“生死课”。
Once handwritten will, infected with the new crown virus Wuhan four-year-old girl before graduation "life and death lessons."
习近平抵武汉考察新冠肺炎疫情防控工作。
Xi arrived in Wuhan to investigate the prevention and control of the disease.
美股熔断！开盘后全线暴跌超7%，三大股指暂停交易15分钟。
U.S. stocks meltdown! After the opening line plummeted by more than 7%, the three main stock indexes suspended trading for 15 minutes.
“爱达太阳”号邮轮发现两名疑似病例，该船可搭乘两千名乘客。
The Ida Sun found two suspected cases that could carry 2,000 passengers.
意大利死亡病例数暴增57%，死亡率升至全球最高。
Italy has seen its death toll soar by 57 per cent, the highest in the world.
一家“遍体鳞伤”的武汉三甲医院。
A "black and blue" Wuhan Sanjia Hospital.
湖北：分区分级分类分时有序推进复工复产，继续延迟学校开学。
Hubei: Divisional classification according to time and order to promote the resumption of work, continue to delay the opening of schools.
中国驻俄罗斯使馆高度关注中国公民被遣返事。
The Chinese Embassy in Russia is highly concerned about the repatriation of Chinese citizens.
福建泉州酒店坍塌事故已致6人死亡，28人正在搜救。
The Quanzhou Hotel collapse in Fujian Province has killed six people and left 28 in search and rescue.
湖北潜江：26号通告取消，继续实行严格交通管制、人员管控。
Hubei buried river: Notice 26 canceled, continue to implement strict traffic control, personnel control.
习近平总书记关切事｜携手下好一盘棋，京津冀战“疫”进行时。
Xi Jinping, the general secretary, was concerned about the plague when he joined hands to fight it.
这场人民战争统帅心中的三个“第一”。
The three "first" in the minds of the commander of the people's war.
曾手写遗书，感染新冠病毒的武汉大四女孩毕业前上“生死课”。
Once handwritten will, infected with the new crown virus Wuhan four-year-old girl before graduation "life and death lessons."
山东省检察机关依法决定对任城监狱疫情事件相关人员立案侦查。
Shandong Provincial Procuratorate decided to file a case against the personnel involved in the epidemic situation in Ren Cheng prison.
伊朗新增新冠肺炎确诊病例1076例，累计确诊5823例。
There were 1076 newly diagnosed cases of new crown pneumonia in Iran and 5,823 cases were diagnosed cumulatively.
孝感安陆一纪委干部感染新冠肺炎去世。
Filial piety An Lu a discipline committee cadre infects new crown pneumonia dies.
财政部：2月湖北国库仅有零星收入，将按周调度资金给湖北。
Ministry of Finance: Hubei treasury has only sporadic income in February, will dispatch funds to Hubei on a weekly basis.
澎湃新闻APP下载。
Pai news APP download.
热话题。
Hot topics.
一天。
One day.
三天。
Three days.
一周。
One week.
我旅居意大利17年,疫情下当地民众生活什么样,问我吧!。
I've been living in Italy for 17 years. Ask me what life is like for the local population.
我是上海对外经贸大学教授李辉文,关于简单经济学,问吧!。
I am Li Peiwen, professor of Shanghai Foreign Trade University, asking about simple economics.
疫情面前，你家亲戚让你操心了吗？。
Did your relatives worry you about the outbreak?
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
我是东京大学人文社会系访问学者苗壮,日本是如何研究汉学的,问我吧!。
I am Miao Zhuang, visiting scholar of Department of Humanities and Society, University of Tokyo.
我旅居意大利17年,疫情下当地民众生活什么样,问我吧!。
I've been living in Italy for 17 years. Ask me what life is like for the local population.
疫情面前，你家亲戚让你操心了吗？。
Did your relatives worry you about the outbreak?
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
我是上海对外经贸大学教授李辉文,关于简单经济学,问吧!。
I am Li Peiwen, professor of Shanghai Foreign Trade University, asking about simple economics.
我致力于流行文化及性别研究,什么是耽美亚文化,问吧!。
I'm committed to pop culture and gender studies. What is the addictive subculture? Ask.
我旅居意大利17年,疫情下当地民众生活什么样,问我吧!。
I've been living in Italy for 17 years. Ask me what life is like for the local population.
疫情面前，你家亲戚让你操心了吗？。
Did your relatives worry you about the outbreak?
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
我致力于流行文化及性别研究,什么是耽美亚文化,问吧!。
I'm committed to pop culture and gender studies. What is the addictive subculture? Ask.
我是在日本新闻一线工作,新冠疫情中日本政界和民众态度如何,问我吧!。
I am working in the front line of Japanese journalism. What is the attitude of Japanese politics and people in the New Crown Epidemic? Ask me.
热门推荐。
Hot recommendations.
教育部：网课不得强行要求中小学生每日打卡，上传学习视频。
Ministry of Education: The net class must not force the primary and secondary school students daily card, upload study video.
中央指导组：有1.2万余名支援湖北医务人员为90后00后。
Central guidance group: There are more than 12,000 medical staff supporting Hubei after 90 years.
中央指导组：湖北超三千名医护人员感染，大多非传染科医生。
Central guidance group: Hubei more than 3,000 medical personnel infected, most non-infectious doctors.
28年前南医大女生被杀案嫌犯被批准逮捕。
28 years ago, the murder of a female student was approved for arrest.
财政部：2月湖北国库仅有零星收入，将按周调度资金给湖北。
Ministry of Finance: Hubei treasury has only sporadic income in February, will dispatch funds to Hubei on a weekly basis.
var lbdHeight = $(".head_ad").height()+$(".head").height()+$(".main_rt").height()-260; //滑到体到顶部的高度。
var lbdLight = $(& quot; .head _ ad & quot;) .height () + $(& quot; .head & quot;) .height () + $(& quot; .main _ rt & quot;) .light (-260; / / sliding to top height.
var topHeight = parseInt($(window).scrollTop() + 1 + 70);  //浮动频道高度70。
var topLight = parseInt ($(window) .scrollTop (+ 1 + 70); / / floating channel height 70.
联系我们。
Contact us.
关于澎湃。
About the roar.
在澎湃工作。
Working in the roar.
联系我们。
Contact us.
版权声明。
Copyright statement.
隐私政策。
Privacy policy.
澎湃广告。
There was a roaring advertisement.
友情链接。
Links to friends.
澎湃新闻举报受理和处置办法。
Measures for handling and handling surging news reports.
严正声明。
Solemn declaration.
Copyright © 2014~2020 The Paper All rights reserved.上海东方报业有限公司 | 沪ICP证：沪B2-20170116 | 沪ICP备14003370号 | 互联网新闻信息服务许可证：31120170006。
Shanghai Oriental Daily News Ltd. & # 144; Shanghai ICP Certificate: Shanghai B2-20170116 & # 124; Shanghai ICP Readiness 14003370 & # 124; Internet News Information Service license: 31120170006.
沪公网安备 31010602000299号。
Shanghai Public Net 3101 602000299.
站长统计。
Station master statistics.
c={//监测配置。
c = {/ monitoring configuration.
UA:"UA-thepaper-000002", //客户项目编号,由系统生成。
UA: & quot; UA-theaper-000002 & quot;, / or customer project number, generated by the system.
URL:'//file.thepaper.cn/www/v3/js/iwt-min.js'//iwt.js的URL位置，请客户自行托管JS文件，只需修改此值。
URL::: / / file.thepaper.cn / www.v3 / js / iwt-min.js & apos; / / iwt.js URL location; and / or iwt.js, have its client manage a JS file by yourself, simply modify this value.
//多视频。
/ / Multi-Video.
