团聚了，但句号没有划上。
The reunion took place, but the period was not marked.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻记者 朱远祥3月6日晚，申军良从济南抵达广州增城。
Peng Pai journalist Zhu Yuanxiang arrived in Zengcheng, Guangzhou, from Jinan on the evening of March 6.
澎湃新闻记者 朱远祥 图3月7日晚，申军良终于见到了被拐15年的儿子。
Peng Pai journalist Zhu Yuanxiang Picture March 7 night, Shen Junliang finally saw the 15-year-old son.
15年前，申军良的儿子申聪还只是一个刚满周岁的宝宝，如今成了身高一米七的大男孩。
Fifteen years ago, Shen Junliang's son, Sheng Cong, was just a one-year-old baby and is now a seven-meter-tall boy.
他在广东一所乡镇中学读初三，健康、阳光，爱打篮球。
He attended a junior high school in Guangdong Province, health, sunshine, love to play basketball.
十多年来他并不知道，自己竟是个被拐卖的孩子。
He had not known for more than a decade that he was a child who had been abducted and sold.
“今后我一定要好好补偿他，补偿欠他15年的父爱。
"I will make it up to him and make up for the 15 years I owe him.
”申军良告诉澎湃新闻。
Shen told the stormy news.
这次见面，他给儿子准备的礼物，包括一套从里到外的运动品牌新衣服，还有5个N95口罩。
At the meeting, he gave his son a set of new sports-brand clothes from the inside out and five N95 masks.
此次认亲，是否意味着申聪被拐一事划上句号？申军良不这么认为。
This affidavit, whether means Sheng Cong was abducted on the end of the matter? Shenjun Liang do not think so.
一方面，今后申聪在哪一边生活，亲生父母与养父养母的关系如何处理，还有许多实际问题需要解决；另一方面，申军良觉得儿子被拐一案还没有槌音落定，“所有拐卖我儿子的人受到严惩，梅姨也落了网，这个事才能算划上圆满句号。
On the one hand, there are still many practical problems to be solved. On the other hand, Shen Jun-liang feels that the abduction of his son has not yet been settled. "All the abductors of my son have been severely punished and Aunt May has fallen into the net.
”可是，被申军良认定为拐卖案重要中间人的“梅姨”，真实身份到底是谁？这依然是待解的谜团。
But who is Aunt May, who Shen Junliang has identified as an important middleman in the abduction case, remains an open question.
“这次真的是百分之百了”警方找到申聪的这一喜讯，申军良是在2020年春节前夕得知的。
"This is really 100 percent" the police found Sheng Cong this good news, Shen Junliang is in 2020 spring festival eve learned.
那是1月15日，济南市公安局天桥分局新城派出所的民警给他打电话，了解他的住处，并核实他是否为寻找儿子提供过DNA信息。
On January 15, police officers from the Xincheng police station at Jinan Public Security Bureau's Flyover Sub-station called him to find out where he lived and to verify whether he had provided DNA information to locate his son.
通话后申军良才反应过来，马上打电话给广州市公安局增城区分局的办案民警，证实了“天大的喜事”——儿子申聪找到了，DNA比对信息完全符合！当时申军良马上打电话给澎湃新闻记者。
After the call, Shenjun Liangcai response, immediately called Guangzhou Public Security Bureau Zengcheng Branch of the case police, confirmed the "big happy event" - son Sheng Cong found, DNA match the information!
“我兴奋得不行了。
"I'm so excited.
站也不行，坐也不行。
Not even standing, not even sitting down.
”申军良激动得几乎哽咽，他一手拿着手机，一手不停地捶打身边的床垫。
"Shenjun Liang was almost choked with excitement as he beat the mattresses around him with his mobile phone in one hand.
“可能捶了有几百下，”他笑道，“我也不知道是高兴，还是发泄。
"A few hundred beats, perhaps," he said, laughing; "and I don't know whether it was joy or venting.
”在那次“报喜”的通话中，申军良强调：“这次真的是百分之百了，假不了。
"In that" good news "call, ShenJun Liang stressed:" This is really 100 percent, can not fake.
”十多年来，申军良因为“发现儿子”这类消息，空欢喜了很多次。
For more than a decade, Shen Junliang has rejoiced many times over the news of "discovering his son."
1977年出生的申军良是河南周口人。
Shen Junliang, born in 1977, was from Zhoukou, Henan Province.
2005年他在广州增城一家企业务工，与妻子以及儿子申聪在当地租住。
In 2005, he worked as a factory worker in Zengcheng, Guangzhou, where he rented with his wife and son, Shen Cong.
申聪是那一年1月4日被“明抢”的。
Sheng Cong was "robbed" on January 4 that year.
后来警方查实，当天两名男子趁申军良不在家，闯入其租住的房屋，捆绑他妻子，然后将一周岁的申聪从床上强制抱走。
The police later found out that on the same day, two men took advantage of Shenjun's absence, broke into his rented house, tied his wife, and then forcibly removed one-year-old Shen Cong from his bed.
申聪一岁前的照片。
Photo taken before he was one year old.
受访者 供图因为失子之痛，申聪的母亲一度精神失常，申军良则走上漫长的寻子之路。
Respondents for the pain of loss of children, Shen Cong's mother once mental disorders, Sheng Liang on the long road to find children.
他变卖了家中房产，投奔山东亲友，并筹钱到广州、东莞、珠海、深圳等地寻找儿子，十多年张贴寻人启事80多万份，欠债50多万元。
He sold his house, went to Shandong for friends and relatives, and raised money to find his son in Guangzhou, Dongguan, Zhuhai and Shenzhen.
申军良以超乎常人的毅力，坚持寻子十五年。
Sheng Jun good with the extraordinary perseverance, persevering in seeking children for fifteen years.
有时候找不到任何线索，不知往何处寻找，他会将手机放到水泥地上轻轻一转——手机头指向哪里，他就往哪个方向前进。
Sometimes without a clue as to where to look, he would put his phone on the cement floor and move it in any direction it pointed.
2016年3月，牵涉拐卖申聪案的张维平、周容平等5人被警方抓获，这给身心俱疲的申军良注入“强心剂”。
In March 2016, five men, Zhang Weiping and Zhou Rongquan, were arrested by the police in connection with a case involving the abduction and trafficking of Sheng Cong.
起初张维平向警方供称，他把申聪卖到增城的湘江路一带。
At first Zhang confessed to the police that he sold Sheng Cong to Zengcheng's Xiangjiang Road area.
于是申军良到湘江路周边挨家挨户找了几个月。
So Shenjun Liang Xiangjiang Road surrounding the door-to-door look for several months.
他住宿的那家旅馆老板同情他，将每天房费从80元降至45元。
The owner of the hotel where he stayed sympathized with him and reduced his room rate from 80 yuan to 45 yuan a day.
有一天，一位女居民悄悄告诉申军良，她的闺蜜在2003年买过一个小孩，可能是申聪，就在申军良所住旅馆的对面中学读书。
One day, a female resident quietly told Shen Junliang that her daughter had bought a child in 2003, probably Shen Cong, to study in the middle school opposite Shen Junliang's hotel.
于是申军良按提示观察那男孩——皮肤白白的，双眼皮。
So Shen Junliang was prompted to observe the boy - skin white, double eyelids.
“孩子年龄以及拐卖的时间、地点都吻合，我觉得肯定没错。
"I'm pretty sure it matches the age of the child and the time and place of the sale.
”申军良于是将孩子信息提供给警方，然后天天爬在旅馆的窗户边，寻找“儿子”上学、放学时出现的身影。
"Shenjun-liang then provided the information to the police and climbed through the hotel window every day looking for his son's presence after school.
可后来鉴定结果出来，那孩子并非申聪。
But when the result of the examination came out, the child was not deaf.
2017年夏天，希望又来了。
In the summer of 2017, hope returns.
“人贩子”张维平交待，他把申聪卖到了河源市紫金县。
"Trafficker" Zhang Weiping explained that he sold Sheng Cong to Heyuan Zijin County.
于是申军良将寻子的“主战场”锁定在紫金。
So the Shenjun general search for "the main battlefield" locked in purple gold.
在紫金县一个镇上，有人向他反映，镇中学一名初中生是其家人以前“买”来的。
In a town in Zijin County, he was told that a junior high school student had been "bought" by his family.
他便租了一辆面包车停在校门口观察。
He rented a van and parked at the school gate to watch.
“那孩子身材瘦瘦的，脸型轮廓像我弟弟小时候。
"The boy was thin and had a face shaped like my brother's when he was a child.
”申军良悄悄拍了对方一张照片，发给一位有名的模拟画像专家判断。
"Shenjun-liang snuck a picture of the other side and handed it to a well-known expert on mimicry.
“他说相似度有90%。
"He said the similarity was 90 percent.
”申军良于是深信不疑。
"Shenjun Liang then believed deeply.
有段时间，帮助他盯梢的一位线人，每天向他报告“你儿子上学去了”“你儿子刚刚放学出来……”弄得申军良心里“痒痒的”。
For a time, a source who had helped him keep an eye on him reported to him every day that "your son has gone to school" "Your son has just come out of school..."
可后来的DNA比对结果出来，这一个男孩也被排除了。
But later the DNA match came out and the boy was ruled out.
“当时太失落了，觉得心里很痛。
"It was so sad, it hurt so much.
”申军良说，此后他得到类似消息，都会有意识地控制情绪，不敢让自己太兴奋，“希望越大，失望就越大。
Since then, he has had similar messages, consciously controlling his emotions and not daring to excite himself, 'The more hope there is, the more disappointment there is.
”直到2020年1月，寻找儿子的15年梦想，终于照进了申军良的现实。
Until January 2020, the 15-year dream of finding his son finally shone into Shenjun Liang's reality.
申军良在济南的租住屋内翻看行李箱的寻人启事。
Shen Junliang rummages through the luggage office in Jinan.
澎湃新闻记者 钟笑玫 图跨省认亲，疫情时期的特殊之旅1月15日得知申聪的消息后，申军良马上向广州增城警方提出，希望接申聪回家过春节，民警告诉他，尚有许多工作细节要落实。
/ [^ # 39 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 116] / n. After hearing the news of Sheng Cong on January 15, Sheng Liangma told Guangzhou Zengcheng police that he hoped to take Sheng Cong home for the Spring Festival, the police told him that there were many details to be implemented.
距离2020年春节一周的时候，广州的办案民警赶到山东济南，向申军良简要反馈案件进展，并商讨认亲计划。
A week before the 2020 Spring Festival, the Guangzhou case police arrived in Jinan, Shandong, to brief Shenjun Liang on the progress of the case and discuss the adoption plan.
申军良告诉澎湃新闻，据民警透露，申聪在一所乡镇中学读初三，有一个姐姐一个弟弟，都在上学；其养父母常年外出务工，家中生活不大宽裕。
Shen told the roar news, according to the police, Sheng Cong in a township middle school, a junior high school, there is a sister, a younger brother, are all attending school; their adoptive parents have been away from work all year round, and their families are not very well off.
“我有些难过，感觉申聪过得并不好。
"I'm a little upset and I don't feel so well off with Shin.
”申军良说，后来民警安慰他，“孩子身体很健康”，他才松了一口气。
Shen said he was relieved when police comforted him that the child was in good health.
这些年他看过被拐孩子手脚残疾的报道，就一直担心申聪的身体是否正常。
Over the years, he has watched reports of children with hands and feet disabilities and has been worried about his health.
申军良和办案民警约好，正月初七之后赴广东认亲。
Shen Junliang and the case of the police appointment, after the seventh month to Guangdong adoption.
然后，他就带着妻子和两个儿子回河南老家过年。
Then he took his wife and two sons back to his hometown of Henan for the New Year.
两个儿子一个14岁，一个12岁。
The two sons were 14 and 12.
“他们三兄弟，刚好隔两年生一个。
"Three brothers, just two years apart.
”申军良笑道。
"Shen Junliang smiled.
申聪出事之后，有人说“聪”谐音“冲”，是“两滴水把孩子冲出了家”。
Shen Cong accident, someone said the "deaf" homonym "flush", is "two drops of water rushed the child out of the home."
于是申军良给孩子取名更讲究了，后来两个儿子的名字里，都带有一个“家”字——申军良希望他们扎根家里。
So Shen Junliang gave the children more attention to the name, and later the names of the two sons, with the word "home" - Shen Junliang want them to take root at home.
在河南老家过春节的时候，申军良将找到申聪的消息告诉了一些亲友，但瞒着他年逾七旬的母亲，“我妈的性格比我还急，知道了这事肯定天天睡不着，她身体又不好。
During the Spring Festival in his hometown of Henan, Sheng Liangliang told some friends and relatives that he had found Sheng Cong, but concealed from his mother, who is over 70 years old, "My mother is more anxious than I am.
”申军良说，今年春节期间他“非常煎熬”，“时间过得特别慢”。
Shen said he "suffered terribly" during the Spring Festival and "the time passed very slowly."
后来新冠肺炎疫情的形势变得严峻，他南下广东的计划一再推迟。
Later, when the situation became severe, his plans to go south to Guangdong were postponed again and again.
那段时间，他每天关注着广东的疫情，还关注着与他熟识的一位办案民警的“QQ运动”。
During that time, he followed the epidemic in Guangdong on a daily basis and watched the QQ movement of a civilian police officer he knew well.
如果看到对方哪一天步行超过一万步，他会马上发信息问对方是否有所“行动”——去找申聪和他养父母了？3月5日晚上9点，得到警方信息的申军良立马出发。
If he sees his partner walking more than 10,000 steps on a given day, he will immediately send a message asking if he has done anything to find him and his adoptive parents.
离家之前，他已将租住房的一间屋子腾出来，床板、书桌洗干净，作为申聪回家后的卧室和书房。
Before leaving his house, he had vacated a room in which he had rented a house, washed his bed and desk, and used it as a bedroom and study when he returned home.
申军良带着妻子和弟弟，开着他弟弟的汽车，从济南出发驶向广州。
Shen Liang took his wife and brother and drove his brother's car from Jinan to Guangzhou.
一路上，三人精神亢奋，不停地讨论接回申聪后的安排——比如在济南游玩，是先带孩子去爬千佛山，还是先去看趵突泉？申军良一路开得很快。
Shen Jun Liang drove very fast all the way to Jinan for example, whether to take the children to climb the Thousand Foshan first or to jump to the Baotu Spring first.
“老是感觉速度太慢，就想一下子赶到。
"Always feeling too slow, just want to get there at once.
”他记得导航语音里很多次传出“严重超速”的提醒，“不知不觉就已经加了油门”。
He remembers many "severe speeding" reminders in the navigational voice that "the throttle has been turned on unwittingly."
3月6日申军良抵达广州后接受澎湃新闻采访。
March 6 Shenjun Liang arrived in Guangzhou after the news interview Peng Pai.
澎湃新闻记者 朱远祥 图3月6日晚上8点，申军良一行抵达广州市增城区。
Peng Pai journalist Zhu Yuanxiang Picture March 6 at 8: 00 p.m., Shenjun Liang and his party arrived in Zengcheng City of Guangzhou.
1800多公里的长途路程，他们开车仅花了23小时——通宵熬夜行驶，饿了吃方便面。
For a long distance of more than 1,800 kilometers, they drove only 23 hours - staying up all night, starving for instant noodles.
申军良开了20个小时，到达增城与澎湃新闻记者见面时，戴着口罩的他，累得几乎连腰都直不起来了。
Shenjun good drive 20 hours, arrived Zengcheng to meet the roar of journalists, wearing masks, he was almost tired even waist up.
当晚，申军良一行在公安民警的安排下，连夜到医院做核酸检测，以确保未感染新冠肺炎。
That night, Shenjun Liang and his entourage went to the hospital overnight to be tested for nucleic acid under the arrangement of the Public Security Police to ensure no new crown pneumonia.
申军良夫妇在医院接受检测时，广州警方连夜发布通报称：公安机关已在广东梅州找回申军良的被拐儿子申某，将按照疫情防控相关规定，在确保安全的情况下组织认亲。
The public security organs have recovered Shen Junliang's abducted son Shenmou in the Guangdong province of Meizhou, and will organize paternity tests to ensure safety, according to the regulations on epidemic prevention and control.
失散15年后的见面：既期盼，又害怕开车20多个小时到达广州的第一个晚上，申军良几乎通宵未睡。
Meeting after 15 years: Expecting and afraid to drive more than 20 hours to Guangzhou's first night, Shenjun Liang almost stayed up all night.
当晚10点多，他在微信朋友圈发了约一千字的长文。
Later that night, at 10 o'clock, he sent out about a thousand words in the circle of micromail friends.
“想了很久却不知道怎么开头，也不知道用什么样的词汇才能形容我现在的心情。
"" I thought for a long time but I didn't know how to start or what kind of words to use to describe my mood.
”他在开头写道，“今天跟大家宣布一件喜事，我的儿子申聪找到了！”申军良在这篇长文中，对侦办、督办申聪一案的警察、领导，以及新闻媒体和亲朋好友一一表示感谢。
"He began by announcing a happy event today, and my son Sheng Cong has found it!" Shenjun-liang expressed his gratitude to the police and the leadership, as well as to the media and friends who handled the investigation and handling of the case.
他在结尾写道：“我终于可以骄傲地说一句：我是申聪的爸爸，我的儿子找到了！”当晚，申军良的手机几乎被“打爆”，后来不敢再接听，“有两百多个未接电话。
"I am a deaf father and my son has been found!" Shen Junliang's cell phone was nearly "smashed" that night and he dared not answer it again.
”他在所住的宾馆里，一遍又一遍地接受媒体采访，直至天亮。
He stayed in his hotel and gave interviews to the press over and over again until daylight.
极度疲倦的他却没多少睡意，面对媒体滔滔不绝地聊起寻找申聪的故事，口干了喝口水接着聊，戴着的蓝色口罩几乎湿透。
Extremely tired, he didn't feel much drowsiness. He chatted away in front of the media, drinking and drinking, and his blue mask was soaking wet.
他说话常伴着手势，情绪起伏，时而眉飞色舞，时而神情黯然。
His voice was often accompanied by gestures, with ups and downs of mood, and now with a frown and an expression of gloom.
“我恨不得马上见到申聪。
"I can't wait to see Shen Cong.
十五年不在身边了，我也不知道见到他会是什么场景，我心里既期盼，又有点害怕，”他对澎湃新闻说，“我怕申聪心里一下接受不了，怕他不愿意跟家人走近。
Without him for fifteen years, I don't know what it would be like to see him, and I'm both hopeful and a little scared, "he told the roaring news.
我不知道，他会不会因为陌生而排斥我们。
I don't know if he's going to turn us off because he's unfamiliar.
”申军良的担心并非空穴来风。
Shen's fears were not groundless.
2019年11月广州增城警方找到另外两名被拐十多年的孩子，组织了亲生父母认亲，但此后双方沟通并不顺畅，孩子至今未随亲生父母回家。
In November 2019, Zengcheng police in Guangzhou found two other children who had been abducted for more than 10 years and organized their biological parents to make their own relatives.
不过申军良坚信儿子会跟他回家。
But Shen is confident his son will follow him home.
他向澎湃新闻透露了他的“底线”——就算申聪因为中考需要在广东学习生活一段时期，也得先把他的户口迁回老家。
He told the roaring news of his "bottom line" - even if Sheng Cong had to move his account back to his hometown because he had to spend some time studying in Guangdong.
3月7日一大早，申军良的一位同学从东莞赶到增城，送来了申军良让他代购的物品——一套著名运动品牌的衣服，包括内裤、鞋袜。
In the early morning of March 7, a classmate of Shen Junliang rushed from Dongguan to Zengcheng and sent him a set of famous sports brand clothes, including underwear, shoes and socks.
这一套“从里到外”的衣物花费约2千元，是申军良给儿子准备的见面礼——一天前，他才打听到申聪身高约一米七，身材不胖不瘦。
The "inside out" outfit, costing about $2,000, was a gift Shen had prepared for his son a day before he learned that he was about seven meters tall and not fat or thin.
此外，申军良还为儿子准备了防疫的5个N95口罩。
In addition, Shen Junliang prepared five N95 face masks for his son.
当天中午，增城区公安分局的民警将申军良夫妇接到刑警大队。
At noon that day, Zengcheng Public Security Bureau of the police will Shenjun good couple received criminal investigation police brigade.
闻讯赶来的国内50多名记者聚在门口，等候申军良认亲的消息。
Hearing of the domestic more than 50 reporters gathered at the door, waiting for the news that Shenjun Liang adoption.
按照计划，申军良会和申聪及其养父母见面。
According to the plan, Sheng Liangliang and his adoptive parents meet.
3月7日有媒体援引申军良代理律师的话称：申聪明确向警方表示，强烈要求和父亲申军良回家。
Shen made a strong appeal to the police to return home with his father, Shen Junliang, a lawyer representing the military, said March 7.
不过，此后该律师予以否认。
However, the lawyer later denied this.
当天下午四点多，申军良终于来到门口，他神情严肃，对着媒体的镜头说了几句感谢的话，并请大家不要拍摄和公布申聪个人形象。
Shen Junliang finally came to the door at 4: 00 pm, he looked serious, said a few words of thanks to the media lens, and asked everyone not to film and publish the personal image of Shen Cong.
他还说，其代理律师说的一些话，并不代表他和家人的观点。
He adds that some of the statements made by his lawyer do not represent his and his family's views.
说完，申军良在一名工作人员的陪同下快速走进院内。
With that, Shen Junliang, accompanied by a staff member, walked quickly into the courtyard.
聚在公安局门口的许多记者当时感到，申军良此次认亲或许不大顺利。
At that time, many reporters gathered at the gate of the public security bureau felt that Shenjuliang this time may not be very smooth.
3月7日，广州市公安局增城区分局副局长李光日介绍案情。
March 7, Guangzhou Public Security Bureau Zengcheng Sub-District Deputy Director Li Guangzhi introduced the case.
当天下午五点多，广州市公安局增城区分局召开情况通报会。
More than 5 p.m. that day, Guangzhou Public Security Bureau Zengcheng Branch held a briefing.
副局长李光日向媒体介绍，申军良夫妇与申聪还未见面认亲。
Deputy Director Li Guang Ri to the media, Shen Junliang and Shen Cong have not met to adopt.
“还没有见面，到此时此刻还没有，但是我们会安排的。
'Not yet, not yet, but we'll arrange it.
”李光日说，双方见面，还需要情感上的缓冲期。
Mr Li said there was still an emotional buffer between the two sides when they met.
至于何时安排见面，“要看双方的接受度”。
As for when to arrange a meeting, it depends on the degree of acceptance by both parties.
李光日透露，他与16岁的申聪见过面，觉得他很健康、阳光，“他还没表达在哪边居住的愿望。
Mr. Li said he met 16-year-old Mr. Shin and found him healthy and sunny. 'He hasn't said where he wants to live.
”直到3月7日晚上10点，广州市公安局新闻办通报：今晚19时许，在双方意愿下，广州增城警方安排了申军良夫妇与失散15年的儿子申某团聚。
"Guangzhou Zengcheng police arranged for the reunion of Shenjun and Shen Mou, their 15-year-old son, at about 19 pm on March 7, the Guangzhou Zengcheng police announced.
张维平拐卖儿童案牵涉包括申聪在内的9名儿童。
The child abduction case involved nine children, including Mr. Shin.
部分家属出示被拐孩子小时候照片。
Some families showed pictures of abducted children as children.
澎湃新闻记者 朱远祥 图划上句号？“梅姨”还是谜3月7日晚与儿子申聪相认后，申军良不再接受媒体采访。
A journalist named Zhu Yuanxiang ended his career in Beijing on March 7 after meeting his son Shin Cong-liang on the night of March 7.
此前他曾告诉澎湃新闻，找回孩子后，他想过平静的家庭生活。
He had told the stormy news that he wanted to live a peaceful family life after he recovered his child.
“申聪回归家庭后，我们全家会让他过得舒心快乐。
"When he returns to his family, his family will make him happy.
”他说，他会重新找一份工作，好好过日子，“给孩子创造好的条件”。
He said he would get a new job, get on well and "create the right conditions for his children."
不过，申军良表示，儿子被拐一事目前还不能完全“划句号”，“希望拐卖我儿子的人都受到严惩，梅姨也尽快落网，这样我也可以安安心心回归家庭，好好生活。
However, Shen said that the abduction of his son is not yet a "full stop," that "those who wish to kidnap my son are severely punished and Aunt May is arrested as soon as possible so that I can return home and live a good life.
”目前已查明拐卖申聪的张维平、周容平等5人，均是贵州省遵义市绥阳县人，来自同一个村，2018年12月被广州市中级人民法院以拐卖儿童罪判刑，其中张维平、周容平被一审判处死刑。
Zhang Weiping and Zhou Rong-ping, both from Suiyang County, Zunyi City, Guizhou Province, who were sentenced to death in December 2018 by the Guangzhou Intermediate People's Court for child abduction and trafficking, Zhang Weiping and Zhou Rongping were sentenced to death in first instance.
此案被上诉至广东省高级人民法院，目前还在审理。
The case was appealed to the Guangdong Higher People's Court and is still pending.
在二审阶段，申军良夫妇继续表达了刑事附带民事的诉求。
At the second instance, Mr. and Mrs. Shen continued to express their criminal incidental civil claims.
被“人贩子”张维平拐卖的儿童，不止申聪一人。
"Trafficker" Zhang Weiping abducted and sold children, more than hearing one person.
广州市中级法院审理查明，2003年9月至2005年12月，张维平参与拐卖了包括申聪在内的9名儿童。
The Guangzhou Intermediate Court found that between September 2003 and December 2005, Zhang Weiping had been involved in the abduction and trafficking of nine children, including Sheng Cong.
被拐的9名男童中，当时最小的1岁，最大的3岁。
Of the nine boys abducted, the youngest was 1 year old and the oldest 3 years old.
2019年11月，广州警方找回此案中被拐的2名儿童，其亲生父母分别来自贵州、四川。
In November 2019, Guangzhou police recovered two abducted children from Guizhou and Sichuan.
“这些年我们一直没放弃对9个被拐卖小朋友的查找。
"We haven't given up on looking for the nine abducted children over the years.
”在3月7日的通报会上，增城区公安分局副局长李光日说，“剩下6个小朋友的查找，我们还在开展工作，但目前还没法给大家一个预期。
"We're still working on it, but we can't give you an idea yet," Li Guangzhi, deputy director of Zengcheng Public Security Bureau, said in a briefing on March 7.
”而据张维平此前交待，他拐卖的9个孩子，都是通过中间人“梅姨”介绍，卖往广东紫金县等地。
The nine children he kidnapped and sold were sold through middleman Aunt May to places like Zijin County in Guangdong, Zhang said earlier.
“梅姨”到底是谁？“梅姨当时有四十五六岁吧，短头发，讲白话，说话比较快。
Aunt May was forty-five or six years old, short hair, plain speaking, and quick in speech.
”张维平2017年在广州中院接受审理时称，他不知道“梅姨”的真实姓名，是十多年前他在增城租住时，隔壁两位老人介绍认识的。
Zhang, who was heard in the Guangzhou Central Court in 2017, said he did not know Aunt May's real name, introduced to him by two elderly men next door when he rented in Zengcheng more than a decade ago.
增城警方2017年11月曾向澎湃新闻透露，民警带张维平去找过认识“梅姨”的那两位老人，其中一人已去世，另一名八旬老者处于痴呆失忆状态。
Zengcheng police told the roaring news in November 2017 that the police had taken Zhang Weiping to meet the two old people who knew Aunt May, one of whom had died and the other 80-year-old was in a state of dementia.
庭审时公诉人出示的案卷材料显示，办案民警还带张维平在紫金县找到“梅姨”的前男友。
During the trial, the prosecutor showed the case file materials show that the case police also took Zhang Weiping in Zijin County to find "Aunt May" ex-boyfriend.
该彭姓男子称，他十二年前曾与一名50岁的妇女交往，六年前没有联系了。
Peng said he dated a 50-year-old woman 12 years ago and had no contact with her six years ago.
据其称，该女子叫番冬梅。
According to him, the woman is called Fang Dongmei.
可警方在公安信息网查询，未查到相关年龄范围的“番冬梅”。
But the police in the public security information network query, did not find the relevant age range "winter plum."
2017年6月，广州市公安局增城区分局公布“梅姨”的模拟画像，向社会征集线索。
In June 2017, the Zengcheng Branch of Guangzhou Public Security Bureau announced a mock-up of Aunt May to solicit clues from society.
该通报称：绰号“梅姨”的女子涉及多起拐卖案件，真实姓名不详，现年约65岁左右，身高1.5米，讲粤语，会讲客家话，曾长期在增城、韶关新丰地区活动。
The report said the woman nicknamed "Aunt May" was involved in a number of trafficking cases. Her real name is unknown. She is about 65 years old, is 1.5 metres tall, speaks Cantonese, speaks Hakka and has long been active in Zengcheng and Shaoguan Xinfeng areas.
在此次情况通报会上，李光日介绍，2017年以来广州警方接到国内多地群众举报的“梅姨”线索，经逐一核查，均被排除。
Since 2017, the Guangzhou police have received information from people in many parts of the country about "Aunt May," and checked out one by one, Li said.
李光日说，警方曾根据张维平的供述，核实了“几乎所有的细节”，仍没有查到“梅姨”的身份信息，“目前还没有证据直接证明梅姨是存在的。
Li said police had verified "almost all the details" based on Zhang's statement, but had not identified Aunt May. "There is no direct evidence that she exists.
”“欢迎媒体朋友和热心群众给我们提供有价值的线索。
"Media friends and interested people are welcome to give us valuable clues.
”李光日说，“我们会尽最大的努力，非常负责任地去一一核实。
'We will try our best to verify them very responsibly, 'Mr. Li said.
”本期编辑邢潭推荐阅读。
Xing Tam, editor of this issue, recommends reading.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
团聚了，但句号没有划上。
The reunion took place, but the period was not marked.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "团聚了，但句号没有划上";。
var msg _ title = & quot; reunited, but not with & quot;;
var msg_desc = "“所有拐卖我儿子的人受到严惩，梅姨也落了网，这个事才能算划上圆满句号。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "It was only when all my son's abductors were severely punished, and Aunt May was caught.
”";。
";;
title: '起底韩国新天地教会：疫情“帮凶”',。
South Korea's Xintiandi Church: AT & T & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; &
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '武汉，不能后退的理由',。
Wuhan, the reason why it was not possible to fall back.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '“湖北疫情依旧严峻，坚决不能放松”',。
"Hubei still has a serious epidemic and resolutely not to relax" & amp; apos; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
