梁红：“新冠”疫情对中国经济总体影响未必会超“非典”。
Liang Hong: The overall impact of the "new crown" epidemic on China's economy is unlikely to exceed SARS.
梁红。
Liang Hong.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
_值得大力肯定的是，此次疫情爆发后政策应对果断而有效。
To be sure, the policy response to the outbreak has been decisive and effective.
但本次疫情也凸显了一些中国医疗体系仍待完善之处，其中也包括医护人员及相关用品的长期短缺的问题等_文 | 梁红截至2月4日24时，中国内地已确诊24324例新型冠状病毒肺炎病例，疑似病例总数也上升至23260例。
But the outbreak also highlights some areas where China's health-care system still needs to be improved, including chronic shortages of medical personnel and related supplies. As of 2400 hours on February 4, 24,324 new cases of coronavirus pneumonia have been confirmed in the mainland, bringing the total number of suspected cases to 23,260.
虽然目前事态仍在快速演变阶段、疫情的持续时间和影响范围等尚存诸多不确定性，但纵观现代史中历次类似疫情的经验，我们不难总结出以下两个共同特征，一是疫情对经济活动的影响是暂时性的；二是政府往往会加大逆周期调节力度，以缓解其对经济增长及企业部门的冲击。
While there is still much uncertainty about the rapid evolution of events, the duration and extent of the epidemic, it is not difficult to draw from the experience of similar outbreaks in modern history the following two common features: first, the temporary nature of the impact of the epidemic on economic activity; and, second, the tendency of Governments to scale up countercyclical adjustments to cushion the impact on economic growth and the enterprise sector.
基准情形下，我们预计此次“新冠”疫情在2月中旬左右进入“缓和期”，即日度新增病例开始下降，在2月底/3 月初进入“平台期”，即新增 确诊人数降至“零星”水平。
In the baseline scenario, we expect the new outbreak to enter a "period of détente" around mid-February, when new cases begin to decline, and a "plateau" period begins in late February / early March, when the number of new diagnoses falls to "sporadic" levels.
我们这一判断主要参照2003年实施严格的隔离措施后、SARS疫情的演变。
Our judgment is based on the evolution of the SARS epidemic since the strict quarantine measures were imposed in 2003.
然而，如果出现病毒变异或“二次爆发”一类的尾部风险，则疫情对经济活动的影响可能更大、且更持久。
However, if tail risks such as virus variation or a "secondary outbreak" occur, the impact of the outbreak on economic activity is likely to be greater and more permanent.
但不可否认的是，严格的隔离措施，虽然从遏制疫情扩散的角度必不可少，但也会在短期对增长带来更明显的冲击，经营或财务杠杆较高的企业、线下服务业、及融资渠道有限的中小企业等将面临较大现金流压力。
But it is undeniable that strict quarantine measures, while essential to contain the spread of the epidemic, will also have a more pronounced impact on growth in the short term, with cash flow pressures on businesses with higher operational or financial leverage, offline services, and small and medium-sized enterprises with limited access to finance.
本次疫情将如何演变？回顾2003年SARS疫情的演变，在严格的隔离措施实施后，新增确诊病例数量有望在2周内开始减少、再经过2-3周后可能降至“零星”水平。
Recalling the evolution of the SARS epidemic in 2003, the number of newly confirmed cases is expected to begin to decrease within two weeks after strict quarantine measures are implemented, and may drop to "sporadic" levels after two to three weeks.
诚然，传染病研究并非我们的专业，且目前疫情发展还处于较早期阶段，但为了尽早对经济走势做出一些大体判断，我们尝试对本次“新冠”疫情的演变进程做一些常识性的评估。
It is true that infectious disease research is not our specialty, and the epidemic is still in its early stages, but in order to make some early judgement on the economic trend, we try to make some common sense assessment of the evolution of the "new crown" epidemic.
我们评估的主要依据是2003年SARS疫情在采取严格隔离措施后的演变路径。
Our assessment is based mainly on the evolution of the SARS epidemic in 2003 after strict quarantine measures were adopted.
参照2003年SARS疫情的演变进程，基准情形下，我们预计此次“新冠”疫情在2月中旬左右进入“缓和期”（即日度新增病例开始下降），在2月底/3月初进入“平台期”（即新增确诊人数降至“零星”水平）。
In the light of the evolution of the SARS epidemic in 2003, we expect the new outbreak to enter a "detente" period around mid-February (that is, new daily cases begin to decline), and a "plateau" period (that is, the number of new diagnoses falls to "sporadic" levels) in late February / early March.
为防止“新冠”疫情传播，武汉于2020年1月24日关闭离城通道，标志着大范围的严格隔离措施开始实施。
Wuhan closed its way out of the city on January 24, 2020 to prevent the spread of the new crown, marking the start of a wide-scale quarantine.
随后，武汉周边城市也采取了类似措施，全国范围的防控措施明显升级，其中包括春节假期延长，学校延迟开学，各种娱乐场所等公共设施暂时关闭等等。
Subsequently, Wuhan surrounding cities have taken similar measures, nationwide control measures have been significantly upgraded, including the extension of the Spring Festival holidays, the delayed opening of schools, and the temporary closure of public facilities such as recreational venues.
与“非典”的防控措施升级后一致，我们已经观察到“三阶导数下降”，即新增确诊病例的增速已经于1月28日开始放缓，表明疫情可能已经进入“初步控制期”。
Consistent with the scaling-up of SARS prevention and control measures, we have observed a "third derivative decline," with the rate of increase in newly confirmed cases beginning to slow on January 28, suggesting that the outbreak may have entered an "initial control period."
如果本次疫情接下来的发展与SARS的轨迹大体一致，那么在防控得当的前提下我们认为有望在2月中旬左右迎来“缓和期”、即日度新增确诊病例的绝对数开始下降。
If the next phase of the outbreak is broadly consistent with the trajectory of the disease, we believe that the absolute number of new confirmed cases will begin to decline around mid-February, subject to appropriate control.
最早在大力隔离措施生效后的1个月，疫情有望步入“平台期”，即得到控制的前奏。
The epidemic is expected to enter a "platform period," a prelude to control, as early as one month after strong quarantine measures come into effect.
参照非典时期的经验，平台期开始1个月后，出行相关限制可能逐渐解除、商业活动开始复苏。
In the light of the SARS experience, one month after the start of the platform period, travel-related restrictions may gradually be lifted and commercial activity begins to recover.
“新冠”疫情对经济的影响未必超“非典”尽管每次疫情传播都有不同的演变路径，但纵观现代史中历次类似疫情的经验，我们不难总结出以下两个共同特征：第一，疫情对经济活动可能产生明显的影响，但这些影响总是暂时性的。
The economic impact of the New Crown need not exceed that of SARS Although each epidemic has its own evolutionary path, it is not difficult to draw two common features from the experience of similar epidemics in modern history. First, the epidemic may have a clear impact on economic activity, but these effects are always temporary.
在近期的报告中，我们回顾了2003年非典对经济的影响——彼时疫情对经济的影响主要集中在2003年2季度 。
In a recent report, we reviewed the economic impact of SARS in 2003, when the epidemic's impact on the economy was concentrated in the second quarter of 2003.
回顾现代医学史，传染病疫情对当地经济的影响通常只持续1-2个季度 。
Looking back at the history of modern medicine, the impact of epidemics on local economies usually lasts only one to two quarters.
第二，期间政府往往会加大逆周期调节力度，以缓解其对经济增长、居民收入及企业现金流的冲击。
Second, governments tend to step up countercyclical efforts to cushion the impact on economic growth, household incomes, and corporate cash flows.
我们认为，在疫情大范围传播期间，政府应采取措施维护流动性合理充裕、稳定增长预期，以防止企业部门由于总需求暂时而急剧的收缩而陷入“流动性危机”。
We believe that during the spread of the epidemic, the government should take measures to maintain reasonably adequate liquidity and steady growth expectations in order to prevent the corporate sector from plunging into a "liquidity crisis" as a result of a temporary and sharp contraction in aggregate demand.
虽然目前做出确定性的判断为时尚早，但在基准情形下，“新冠”疫情对经济整体影响的未必一定超过“非典”。
While it is too early to make definitive judgments, the overall economic impact of the new crown in the baseline scenario is not necessarily greater than that of SARS.
在疫情发展仍存在高度不确定性的情况下，经济观察人士和市场参与者倾向于对“新冠”疫情演进及其对经济影响的评估往往偏悲观。
With the epidemic still highly uncertain, economic observers and market participants tend to be pessimistic about the evolution of the New Crown and its impact on the economy.
但是，如果往前看，疫情的发展与我们的基准情形大体一致，那么说“新冠”疫情对经济整体影响高于“非典”就可能言之过早，原因如下：首先，此次疫情影响的持续时间可能较短。
Looking ahead, however, and broadly in line with our baseline scenario, it may be premature to say that the overall economic impact of the New Crown is higher than that of SARS, for the following reasons: First, the impact of the outbreak is likely to be short-lived.
正如我们在前一节中所分析的，与非典相比，此次严格隔离防御措施“新冠”采取的时间更早且范围更大，因此“新冠”疫情从爆发到进入“缓和期”的时间可能比“非典”更短（从第一例非典感染确诊到严格隔离措施生效持续了5个月的时间 ）。
As we have analysed in the previous section, the new "crown" of strict quarantine measures is older and broader than SARS, so the "new crown" outbreak may take less time than SARS to enter the "dente" period (from the first SARS diagnosis to the entry into force of strict quarantine measures lasting five months).
此外，抗击非典带来了宝贵的经验，促使本次抗击疫情采取隔离、检疫和预防等一系列措施更加果断、有力，因此，对疫情的防控也有望更有效。
In addition, the fight against SARS has brought valuable lessons to bear. As a result, a series of measures, such as quarantine, quarantine and prevention, have been adopted to fight the epidemic more resolutely and vigorously.
其次，本次大规模隔离防控措施的影响集中在1-2月，而SARS对经济影响最大的时期是4-5月。
Second, the impact of this large-scale containment effort is concentrated in January-February, with SARS having the greatest impact on the economy in April-May.
由此，本次疫情影响的“时段”在年度总产出的占比较小、尤其对投资、贸易和工业生产等指标而言。
As a result, the "period" of the epidemic's impact is relatively small in terms of total annual output, especially for indicators such as investment, trade, and industrial production.
虽然“新冠”疫情的爆发于春运前期，导致疫情防控难度加大，但在我们的基准假设下、即2月底前疫情得到有效遏制，疫情控制期落在这一时段也并非全无益处——1-2月总产出在全年中比例最小，即一部分“隔离期”落在了本身经济活动就大幅减少的时期。
Although the outbreak of the New Crown occurred in the early spring, making it more difficult to prevent and control the disease, it is not entirely unhelpful that the outbreak was effectively contained before the end of February, our baseline scenario - January-February, when total output was the smallest in the year, with some of the "quarantine period" falling into a period of significant decline in its own economic activity.
2003年4-5月，非典对经济活动影响最大，而这一时段也正是投资和工业生产的“旺季”。
In April-May 2003, SARS affected economic activity the most, and this was the "best season" for investment and industrial production.
1-2月比4-5月在年产出中所占的份额较小。
January-February accounts for a smaller share of annual output than April-May.
稍微拉长看，非典对实际GDP和名义GDP增长的影响集中在2003年2季度，而3季度增长就已经明显回升。
Over time, the impact of SARS on real GDP and nominal GDP growth was concentrated in the second quarter of 2003, while growth picked up markedly in the third quarter.
根据我们的基准情形，本轮疫情对今年GDP的冲击可能集中在1季度。
According to our benchmark, the current round of shocks to GDP this year is likely to be concentrated in the first quarter.
对比1季度与2季度、1-2月与4-5月在总需求和各分项指标中占全年的比重——1季度GDP约占全年总量的22%，而2季度GDP约占25%。
Compare the annual share of total demand and sub-measures between the first and second quarters, January-February, and April-May - GDP in the first quarter accounted for about 22% of the total for the year, while GDP in the second quarter accounted for about 25%.
此外，由于春节长假的原因，1-2月在全年总产出中所占的份额更小。
In addition, January-February accounts for a smaller share of total output for the year as a result of the Spring Festival holiday.
再次，目前为止，此次疫情的影响区域集中在湖北省，而“非典”时期则呈“多点爆发”的局面、当时疫情直到扩散至多个省份及其他国家后才受到重视。
Third, so far, the epidemic's impact has been concentrated in Hubei Province, while SARS was characterized by a "multi-point outbreak," which was not taken seriously until it spread to several provinces and other countries.
SARS时期，中国内地有10个省市被世卫组织定义为“疫区”、其中不乏经贸重镇——这些地区合并占当时全国GDP4成以上、贸易占比接近6成。
During the SARS period, China's 10 provinces and cities were defined by the WHO as "epidemic areas," including some major economic and trade towns, which together accounted for more than 10% of GDP and nearly 60% of trade at that time.
而此次湖北省占所有“新冠”确诊病例约60%，同时也是隔离措施最为严格的省份。
Hubei province, which accounts for about 60 percent of all confirmed cases, is also the province with the most restrictive quarantine measures.
然而，湖北省仅占全国GDP的4.3%、出口占比小于2%。
However, Hubei Province accounts for only 4.3 percent of China's GDP and less than 2 percent of its exports.
如果“新冠”疫情在湖北以外的省市能按照当前的趋势得到较有效的控制，则全国大部分地区可能比SARS时期更早、更快地恢复经济活力。
If the New Crown outbreak is more effectively contained in provinces and municipalities outside Hubei according to current trends, it is likely that much of the country will regain its economic vitality earlier and faster than during the SARS period.
最后，货币与财政政策均有加大逆周期调节政策的空间，尤其考虑到此次疫情爆发于年初（且在两会各项指标确定之前）。
Finally, there is room for both monetary and fiscal policies to scale up countercyclical adjustment policies, especially given that the outbreak occurred early in the year (and before the two meetings "targets were set).
SARS时期的政策反应表明，逆周期调节政策在疫情期间明显加码、尤其是货币政策。
Policy responses during the SARS period have shown that countercyclical adjustment policies were significantly scaled up during the epidemic, especially monetary policy.
由此，虽然需求暂时受抑制，但货币信贷增长仍然加速。
As a result, monetary credit growth accelerated, albeit temporarily subdued.
SARS时期宽松的政策环境导致SARS疫情结束后经济活动快速恢复。
The permissive policy environment during the SARS period led to a rapid resumption of economic activity after the SARS epidemic ended.
央行等部门2月1日联合发布通知，表示将维护流动性合理充裕，同时采取降低贷款成本、增加信用贷款、延长贷款期限等方式对受疫情影响较大的企业提供支持。
The central bank and other government departments jointly issued a notice on February 1, saying they would maintain adequate liquidity and support businesses affected by the epidemic by reducing the cost of loans, increasing credit loans and extending loan terms.
我们认为，鉴于大部分政府工作目标和方案尚未正式宣布，包括信贷额度、增长目标、财政赤字规模等。
We believe that, given that most of the Government's work objectives and programmes have not yet been formally announced, including credit lines, growth targets, size of the fiscal deficit, etc.
由此看，技术层面，逆周期调节的空间也更大。
From this point of view, the technical aspects of counter-cyclical adjustment is also more space.
逆周期调节的政策选择、及中长期影响虽然无需过度悲观，但考虑到此次针对疫情实施了更为严格的隔离防疫措施，短期经济增长难免受到明显的冲击。
While the policy options for countercyclical adjustment, and their medium- and long-term effects, need not be overly pessimistic, short-term economic growth is unlikely to be significantly affected, given the more stringent quarantine measures imposed in response to the epidemic.
如上文所述，虽然持续时间有望更短，但对短期各项同比指标的冲击可能高于“非典”时期。
As noted above, while the duration is expected to be shorter, the impact on short-term year-on-year indicators is likely to be higher than during the SARS period.
这次疫情对国内和海外总需求在短期都可能有明显的抑制效果，总产出与价格水平均会承压。
The epidemic is likely to have a significant dampening effect on domestic and foreign aggregate demand in the short term, with aggregate output and price levels under pressure.
鉴于增长短期难免受到较明显的冲击，及时有力的政策应对尤为重要。
Given that growth is inevitably subject to more pronounced shocks in the short term, a timely and strong policy response is particularly important.
逆周期调节政策有望有效稳定增长和通胀预期、防止企业部门现金流过度收紧、并“托底”就业。
Countercyclical adjustment policies are expected to effectively stabilize growth and inflation expectations, prevent excessive cash flow from the corporate sector, and "back-up" employment.
由于需求增长所受冲击可能“短而深”，政府应当给予及时的政策支持，帮助企业及居民部门渡过难关。
Since the impact on demand growth can be "short and deep," governments should provide timely policy support to help businesses and residential sectors weather the storm.
具体而言，首先货币政策可以通过下调存款准备金率、加大流动性投放力度、降低实体经济融资成本等方式有效放松金融条件，尤其针对受疫情影响的地区/行业。
Specifically, monetary policy can be effective in easing financial conditions, especially in areas / industries affected by the epidemic, by reducing the reserve requirement ratio for deposits, increasing liquidity injections and reducing the cost of financing the real economy.
2月1日，金融监管部门联合发布通知，表示将维护流动性合理充裕，同时采取降低贷款成本、增加信用贷款、延长贷款期限等方式对受疫情影响较大的企业提供支持。
On February 1, financial regulators issued a joint announcement saying they would maintain reasonable liquidity and support businesses more affected by the epidemic by lowering loan costs, increasing credit loans and extending loan maturities.
如SARS期间一样，货币政策将有所放松，以稳定增长通胀预期、缓解企业部门现金流压力。
As was the case during the SARS period, monetary policy will be relaxed to stabilize growth inflation expectations and ease cash flow pressures on the corporate sector.
其次，财政政策可以调降和推迟企业部门的税费上缴、并发放定点“纾困基金”。
Second, fiscal policy can reduce and delay corporate-sector tax payments and issue targeted "bail-outs."
由于名义增长短期承压，财政收入增长也可能将暂时下滑、广义财政赤字率所谓自然“稳定器”将有所扩张。
Given the short-term pressure on nominal growth, fiscal-revenue growth is also likely to decline temporarily, and the so-called natural stabilizers of the broad fiscal deficit ratio will expand.
更近一步，降低劳动密集型服务业的税费负担，对稳定投资和就业增长将大有裨益。
Going further, reducing the tax burden on labor-intensive services would go a long way toward stabilizing investment and employment growth.
此外，应当对受疫情影响区域提供定向财政支持（类“纾困基金”），以助力疫情防治以及之后的经济重建。
In addition, targeted financial support (in the form of a "bail-out fund") should be provided to regions affected by the epidemic to help fight the epidemic and then rebuild the economy.
另外，行业政策也可以更为灵活，以稳定投资和就业增长。
In addition, industrial policies could be made more flexible to stabilize investment and employment growth.
一方面，政策可以考虑对此前较严格管控的边际放松，如地产开发和一些服务业等。
On the one hand, policies could consider marginal deregulation, such as property development and some services, that had previously been more tightly regulated.
同时，对制造业投资的政策支持力度也可能适当加码，尤其是促进产业升级和国产化等方面的政策。
At the same time, policy support for investment in manufacturing is likely to be appropriately scaled up, particularly in the areas of industrial upgrading and localization.
短期的冲击及应对之外，此次“新冠”疫情的经历也有助于中国在中长期继续完善其自身疾病防控及医疗体系的运作。
In addition to short-term shocks and responses, the experience of the New Crown has helped China to continue to improve its own disease prevention and treatment system in the medium and long term.
值得大力肯定的是，此次疫情爆发后政策应对果断而有效。
To be sure, the policy response to the outbreak has been decisive and effective.
但本次疫情也凸显了一些中国医疗体系仍待完善之处，其中也包括医护人员及相关用品的长期短缺的问题等。
But the outbreak also highlights some areas where China's health-care system still needs to be improved, including chronic shortages of health-care workers and related supplies.
（作者为中金公司研究部负责人、首席经济学家，编辑：陆玲）▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
(The writer is Caijing's head of research, chief economist and editor Lu Ling) Click here for more details about the outbreak. & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
梁红：“新冠”疫情对中国经济总体影响未必会超“非典”。
Liang Hong: The overall impact of the "new crown" epidemic on China's economy is unlikely to exceed SARS.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "梁红：“新冠”疫情对中国经济总体影响未必会超“非典”";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Liang: & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "值得大力肯定的是，此次疫情爆发后政策应对果断而有效。
var msg _ desc = & quot; it is a matter of strong affirmation that the policy response was decisive and effective after the outbreak.
但本次疫情也凸显了一些中国医疗体系仍待完善之处，其中也包括医护人员及相关用品的长期短缺的问题等";。
But the outbreak also highlights some areas where China's health-care system still needs improvement, including chronic shortages of health-care workers and related supplies.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
