连载·黄冈日记④｜闲置多年的传染病医院紧急启用_直击现场_澎湃新闻-The Paper。
LianZai Huang Gang Diary, the infectious disease hospital that had been idle for many years, immediately launched the _ direct strike scene _ The Paper.
报料。
News feed.
注册。
Registration.
登录。
Login.
下载APP。
Download APP.
精选。
Selected.
抗疫。
Anti-epidemic.
抗疫防控新型冠状病毒肺炎。
Anti-epidemic control of new coronavirus pneumonia.
。
.
视频。
Video.
上直播。
Live broadcast.
拉近你与现场距离。
Bring you closer to the scene.
七环视频。
Seven-ring video.
为了更美好的生活。
For a better life.
温度计。
Thermometers.
深度记录社会冷暖。
Depth of record society warm and cold.
一级视场。
Level 1 field of view.
及时现场，洞察财经事件。
On-site, insight into financial issues.
World湃。
World surging.
看见新闻全球化。
See the globalization of information.
湃客科技。
Pai guest technology.
聚焦前沿，展现新兴企业。
Focus on the frontier and showcase emerging businesses.
纪录湃。
The record runs high.
纪录澎湃中国。
China is on record.
围观。
Look around.
以影像介入社会生活。
Imaging into social life.
@所有人。
@ All.
所有人在看。
Everyone's watching.
大都会。
Metropolis.
看上海 最都会。
It's the best city in Shanghai.
追光灯。
Searchlight.
让你看到文艺生活。
Let you see the literary life.
运动装。
Sportswear.
直观运动，可以装不要伪装。
Intuitive movement, can be installed without camouflage.
健寻记。
Health care.
追寻活到一百岁的秘诀。
The secret to living to be a hundred years old.
AI播报。
AI announces.
互联网新闻+：AI播报。
Internet news +: AI broadcasts.
眼界。
Eye-catching.
每日一条视频，与新闻同步。
One video per day, synced with the news.
时事。
Current affairs.
中国政库洞悉中国动向的时政解读。
China's treasurer has insight into the current state of affairs in China.
中南海权威细致的领导人报道。
Zhongnanhai authority meticulous leader report.
舆论场倾听复杂世界的弦外之音。
Opinion circles listen to the implications of the complex world.
打虎记中国反腐报道第一平台。
Tiger Kit China Anti-Corruption Report First Platform.
人事风向快速专业的人事信息集合地。
Personnel wind speed and professional collection of personnel information.
法治中国司改风向，法治观察。
Rule of Law China Division wind direction, rule of law observation.
一号专案司法个案，法治调查。
Ad hoc Judicial Case No. 1, Rule of Law Investigations.
港台来信感觉不一样的港台报道。
RTHK's letter feels different from RTHK's report.
长三角政商解读区域政情与财富故事。
The Yangtze River Delta political and economic interpretation of regional political and wealth story.
直击现场第一现场，文图视频直播。
Click on the scene of the first scene, text video live.
公益湃记录公益发展，共建责任生态。
Public welfare record of public welfare development, jointly build ecological responsibility.
。
.
暖闻人间真善美，社会正能量。
Hear the world is good and beautiful, society is positive energy.
。
.
澎湃质量报告打假除劣，破套防坑——专注消费者权益保护。
Pai Pai quality report to fight fraud and shoddy, broken pit - focus on consumer rights and interests protection.
绿政公署环境与公共健康调查。
Environmental and Public Health Survey of the Green Administration.
澎湃国际All News In。
All News In, Peng Pai.
外交学人New World Order。
Diplomat New World Order.
澎湃防务Cyclopedia for military。
Cyclopedia for military defence.
唐人街海外利益，华人故事。
Overseas Interests in Chinatown, Chinese Stories.
澎湃人物提供最有态度的人物报道。
The roaring characters provide the most critical coverage of the characters.
浦江头条上海每天最重要的事件。
The most important events of the day in Shanghai.
教育家最先进的教育理念在此碰撞。
Educators' most advanced educational ideas collide here.
全景现场360度感识全景现场。
Panoramic scene 360-degree panorama scene.
美数课数字是骨骼，设计是灵魂。
Numbers are bones; design is the soul.
快看快看，图片会说话。
Look quick. Pictures talk.
财经。
Finance.
10%公司派发上市公司变革红利。
10 per cent distribute change dividends to listed companies.
能见度能源行业最具穿透力的思想。
Visibility The most penetrating thinking in the energy industry.
地产界地产界所有你想知道的事儿。
Real estate Everything you want to know.
财经上下游跨界找寻市场常识。
Cross-boundary market common sense.
金改实验室金融创新灵感集散地。
Financial innovation center of Jinchang Lab.
牛市点线面简单专业时尚的财富平台。
Bull market simple professional fashion wealth platform.
科技湃让我们走近科学。
Technology has brought us closer to science.
澎湃商学院品牌课外书，生活经济学。
Peng Pai Business School Brand Extracurricular Books, Life Economics.
自贸区连线自贸区第一信息和服务平台。
Free Trade Area line free trade area first information and service platform.
进博会在线走进中国国际进口博览会。
Into the Fair online into China International Import Expo.
澎湃号。
'cried the roar.
湃客。
The roar.
政务。
Government affairs.
媒体。
The media.
思想。
Ideas.
社论澎湃的立场。
The editorial was strong.
澎湃评论在这里知道更多。
Pai Pai comments know more here.
思想湃明亮的对话，澎湃的思想。
Thoughts of bright dialogue, surging thoughts.
上海书评全球百位华文写作名家撰稿。
The Shanghai Book Review is written by 100 leading Chinese writers.
思想市场有竞争的思想讲底蕴的政治。
The thought market has the competitive thought to speak the underlying politics.
私家历史发现历史之美。
Private history finds the beauty of history.
翻书党微时代的首选书单。
Turn over the book party microage first choice book list.
艺术评论独立态度解析中外艺术热点。
Artistic Comment Independent Attitude Analyzes the Hot Spots of Chinese and Foreign Art.
古代艺术巡礼人类的艺术遗产。
Ancient Art Parades the artistic heritage of mankind.
文化课关注人文景观投身人类文明。
Cultural courses focus on humanistic landscape into human civilization.
逝者记录逝者为世界留下的财富。
The dead record the wealth left to the world by the dead.
澎湃研究所为中国城市问题提供澎湃方案。
The Peng Pai Institute offers a robust programme on urban issues in China.
。
.
市政厅中国城市问题专家。
City Hall of China experts on urban issues.
城市漫步人塑造地方，地方也塑造人。
Urban strollers shape places, and places shape people.
智库报告展示全球最具价值的智库研究成果。
The think tank report showcases the world's most valuable think tank research.
专栏名家专家，上天入地。
An expert columnist.
异次元打破次元壁。
Heterogeneous element breaks the secondary wall.
生活。
Life.
有戏陪你过一种审美的生活。
Have a play to accompany you to live an aesthetic life.
文艺范一线文艺生活。
Literary and artistic life.
身体探索身体的奥秘。
The body explores the secrets of the body.
私·奔跑步是一种态度。
Personal running is an attitude.
运动家看体育如何改变世界。
Athletes see how sport can change the world.
私家地理旅途的旨趣、技艺以及乡愁。
The Purport, Skill, and Nostalgia of the Private Geographic Journey.
非常品用态度引领时尚。
A very good attitude leads to fashion.
楼市不一样的楼市观察。
Different property market observation.
生活方式更好生活，我们有一些意见。
We have some suggestions for a better way of life.
澎湃联播半个段子兽半个评论猿。
Half a section of the beast commented on apes.
视界视界观，观世界。
Look at the world, look at the world.
亲子学堂理解孩子，认知自己。
Parents and children learn to understand their children, know themselves.
赢家直击中国体育产业生存现状。
Winners strike at the survival of China's sports industry.
汽车圈专注汽车产经报道。
Auto industry focus on the auto industry report.
问吧。
'he asked.
订阅。
Subscriptions.
把你最喜欢的栏目添加到这里来哦。
Add your favorite column here.
马上登录。
Sign in now.
setMsgMark(); //login异步之后调用位置修改。
Call location modification after setMsgMark; / / login asynchronous.
// 顶部广告自适应。
/ / Top Advertising Adaptability.
// xml返回了creativeHeight。
/ / xml returned creativeLight.
//图片拓展图片时。
/ / Photo when expanding the picture.
if(typeof(xml.find("Cexpansion")[0])!="undefined"){   //是否需要展开。
If (typeof (xml. find; Cempansion & quot;) & # 91; 0 & # 93;)! = & quot; underdefined & quot;) {/ / whether it needs to be carried out.
var cexpansion = xml.find("Cexpansion")[0].textContent.trim();//展开时。
var text = xml. find (& quot; Cempansion & quot;) & # 91; 0 & # 93; .text Content.
//图片拓展视频时   。
/ / Photo when expanding the video.
//视频拓展视频时。
/ / Video when expanding the video.
//收起广告。
/ / Put the ad away.
//将 http://或者https:// 转为//。
/ / Conversion from http: / / https: / / to /.
首页。
Home page.
> 直击现场。
Running straight to the scene.
连载·黄冈日记④｜闲置多年的传染病医院紧急启用。
LianZai Huang Gang's diary, the infectious disease hospital that had been idle for years, went into emergency use.
特邀作者 杨梅 程定琴 徐志礼 梦轩 金昊 叶薇 澎湃新闻记者 方岸 杜心羽 吴佳颖 实习生 李佳悦 整理。
Invited author Yang Mei-ding Qin Xu Zhili Mengxuan Jin Hao Ye Wei Po journalist Fang Xin Yu Wu Jia Ying intern Li Jiayue tidy up.
2020-03-09 07:25 来源：澎湃新闻。
2020-03-09 07: 25 Source: news surging.
字号。
The font size.
超大。
Extremely large.
大。
Big.
标准。
Standards.
小。
Small.
【专题】防控新冠肺炎。
Topic: Prevention and control of new crown pneumonia.
连载·黄冈日记③｜两位患者：咳嗽多日都当感冒在应付。
less than one + less + less + less than + less than +: Coughing has been coping with a cold for days.
连载·黄冈日记②｜科室住满新冠肺炎患者，5位同事被感染。
Liu Zai Huang Gang's diary, full of patients with Newly crowned Pneumonia, 5 colleagues were infected.
连载·黄冈日记①｜“穿防护服戴口罩和护目镜”的人突然来了。
The man in protective clothing, masks, and goggles suddenly appeared.
【编者按】新冠病毒给湖北乃至全国带来一场危机，黄冈是这场疫情的重灾区之一。
The new crown virus brings a crisis to Hubei and even to the whole country. Huanggang is one of the hardest hit areas of the epidemic.
在这场战役中，黄冈人经历了旁观-卷入-创伤-斗争-反思的过程。
In this battle, the Huanggang people experienced the process of watching-involved-traumatizing-fighting-introspection.
我们用亲历者日记连载的形式，试图纵深还原疫情侵袭下的黄冈这60天。
We tried to restore Huanggang to 60 days under the attack of the epidemic in the form of a diary series of relatives.
1月18日，黄冈市决定，将空置备用的黄冈市传染病医院改造成新冠肺炎病例集中隔离治疗医院。
On January 18, the city of Huanggang decided to convert the empty Huanggang infectious disease hospital into a centralized quarantine hospital for cases of Newcrown Pneumonia.
三天时间，负责改造的黄冈市中心医院近百名职工加班加点完成任务。
Three days, responsible for the renovation of the Huanggang City Central Hospital nearly 100 staff working overtime to complete the task.
黄冈市卫健委也下发文件，抽调黄冈市下属各市县医院的部分医疗力量支援全市新冠肺炎诊疗工作。
Huanggang City Health Committee also issued documents, the transfer of Huanggang City hospitals some of the medical support of the city's new crown pneumonia diagnosis and treatment.
（斜体字内容为编辑所加，下同）医护人员从黄冈市中心医院向传染病医院转移设备设施【杨梅：黄冈市中心医院呼吸内科护士】1月21日上午接到通知，明天科室所有人要跟病人一起转到传染病医院（黄冈市二医院），护士长让我们与家人做好沟通，准备好生活用品。
Medical staff transfer equipment from Huanggang Central Hospital to the Infectious Diseases Hospital [Yangmei: Nursing Department of Respiratory Medicine of Huanggang Central Hospital] January 21 morning was notified that tomorrow all the staff would be transferred to the Infectious Diseases Hospital (Huanggang No. 2 Hospital) with their patients.
1月22日今天本来按照排班是中班，白天在家里休息。
January 22 Today was supposed to be a shift, with a day off at home.
上午在家将自己的生活用品打包好，跟公公婆婆简单交待了一下，让他们在家里好好的照顾自己和女儿，戴好口罩，不要跟别人多接触，尽量不出门。
At home in the morning to pack their daily necessities, with my mother-in-law told them to take good care of themselves and their daughter at home, wear masks, do not contact with others, try not to go out.
吃过中饭，一个人拖着行李去了黄州，临走前，女儿还问我“妈妈要什么时候回家”。
After lunch, a man dragged his luggage to Huangzhou. Before he left, my daughter asked me when my mother would like to go home.
因为答应过她，一年级期末考试如果考了一百分就带她坐飞机去海南看海。
Because promised her, if the final exam of the first grade took her to Hainan by plane to see the sea.
她努力考了一百分，可是这个寒假不能陪她去海南了。
She made an effort to get a hundred marks, but she can't accompany her to Hainan this winter vacation.
我也不知道会要多久能回家，只能乐观地跟她说，过半个月，没有那么多的病人，妈妈就回来了。
I didn't know how long it would take to get home, so I told her optimistically that in half a month, without so many patients, my mother would be back.
下午三点多，接到科室通知，让我们所有的人去科室帮忙转送病人。
More than three in the afternoon, received the department notice, let all of us go to the department to help transfer patients.
带上行李，下午四点到科室，换上工作服，跟科室的伙伴们一起帮病人清理物品，打包药品，清理科室物资……忙碌了几个小时，病人开始陆续转移去传染病医院。
Take your bags, come to the office at 4: 00 p. m., change into work clothes, help patients with office cleaning, pack drugs, clean up the department supplies... For hours, the patients began to move to the infectious diseases hospital.
匆匆吃过晚饭，护士长让我先去二医院帮忙。
After a hasty dinner, the head nurse asked me to go to the second hospital to help.
说实话，我的心里是忐忑的，之前从来没有去过二医院，不知道里面的布局如何，也不知道安排我们住宿的地点在哪里。
To tell the truth, my heart is perturbed, has never been to the second hospital, do not know the layout of the inside, do not know where to arrange our accommodation.
一路导航过去，终于在21：30左右赶到了二医院。
Navigated all the way to the second hospital at about 21: 30.
提着工作服，跟门卫说了一下是护士就进去了。
Holding his overalls, he told the doorman it was the nurse who went in.
楼道里，堆着各种物品，还有还不及清理的垃圾，到处像是在走迷宫，兜兜转转，寻寻觅觅，都不知道自己应该去哪里。
The hallway was a labyrinth of things piled up and less than cleared of rubbish, and it was like walking around in labyrinth, scouting around looking for it, not knowing where to go.
终于，在三楼的办公室里看到了我们护理部的熊主任，这个点了，才在吃早已冰冷的晚饭，她看到我进来，立即丢下筷子，给我安排工作。
Finally, in the third floor of the office to see our head bear, this point, is already eating cold dinner, she saw me come in, immediately dropped chopsticks, to arrange my work.
原来二医院这边的护士都是下面各县派过来支援的，但很多都不是我们呼吸专科的护士，为了病人的安全及护理工作的顺利开展，我们要一起共同开展工作。
The nurses on this side of the Second Hospital had been sent to support us by the counties below, but many of them were not nurses in our breathing department. We had to work together for the safety and care of patients.
根本没有时间让我熟悉环境，我立马换上防护服，开始了我的二医院的第一个通宵值守。
There was no time to acquaint myself with my surroundings, so I changed into protective gear and began my first overnight duty at my second hospital.
开始在传染病医院工作【程定琴：黄冈市中心医院呼吸内科护士】1月22日此次临时启用的传染病医院（又叫二医院）在遗爱湖边，我们呼吸内科所有病人都要转移过去。
Began to work in an infectious disease hospital [Cheng Ding-qin: Respiratory Nurse, Huanggang Central Hospital] January 22 The temporary opening of the infectious disease hospital (also known as the Second Hospital) at Lok Lakeside, where all our patients in the Department of Respiratory Medicine will be transferred.
转运病人真是一件费时费力的事。
Transporting patients is really a time-consuming task.
病情轻的病人，一辆救护车每次可以转四五个人，病情重的一次就只能转运一位，病人需要卧床，需要使用呼吸机或者高流氧治疗仪。
For patients with mild illness, an ambulance can take four or five people at a time. In serious cases, only one person can be transferred at a time. Patients need to stay in bed and need a ventilator or a high-flow oxygen therapy unit.
等候车辆的间隙，我们护士抽空整理打包病人的药物，以及科室常用的医用用品。
As we waited for the car to break, our nurses took time to pack the patient's medication, as well as the department's usual medical supplies.
想到废弃的医院物资稀缺，想到这是一场持久战，我们把平常在科室觉得好用的、以后在二医院用得上的物品统统都打包了，整整十几大袋。
Thinking of the scarcity of abandoned hospital supplies and the protracted war, we packed up a dozen or so bags of things we would normally find useful in a department and later in hospital.
十几包的重物全是我们几位护士一个个抬到一楼，搬上救护车。
Dozens of bags of heavy goods were carried one by one by our nurses to the ground floor and onto the ambulance.
一直到凌晨五点半，我们彭金娥护士长才把最后一位病人安全地送上了救护车，至此才完成了所有病人的转运工作。
It was not until half-past five in the morning that we, Sister Peng Kin-ngo, safely took the last patient to an ambulance, and thus completed the transfer of all the patients.
呼吸内科所有的医护人员也都跟随患者，作战地点由黄冈市中心医院呼吸内科转移到了二医院。
All the staff of the Department of Respiratory Medicine followed the patients, and the operation was transferred from the Department of Respiratory Medicine of Huanggang Central Hospital to the Second Hospital.
我们自己的行囊也搬至距离二医院步行十五分钟的盛捷酒店，此后就以此为“家”，开启了跟新型冠状病毒继续死磕的持久战。
We also moved our own bags to Shengjie Hotel, 15 minutes' walk from the Second Hospital, and then used it as a home for a protracted fight against the new coronavirus.
1月23日我们早早吃完早餐来到二医院准备上班。
January 23rd We finished our breakfast early and went to the Second Hospital to get ready for work.
来到二医院我们都傻眼了，这里的条件差到想哭，地面墙面污渍斑驳，到处垃圾脏兮兮的。
We were all silly when we got to the Second Hospital, where the conditions were so bad that we wanted to cry, the floors were stained and dirty with rubbish.
我真的不敢想象昨晚转过来的患者是怎么接受这一切的，他们怎么度过这一晚的。
I really can't imagine how the patient who turned around last night accepted all this and how they got through the night.
抱怨没有任何意义，只得默默换好防护服，着手准备上班。
There was no point in complaining, so I had to quietly change my suit and get ready for work.
转过来的病人分成了三个楼层，分别是二病区、三病区、四病区。
The patients were divided into three floors: two, three and four.
我们呼吸内科的原班人马，加上从罗田、英山、黄梅过来的支援人员。
Our original staff of Respiratory Medicine, plus the support staff from Luotian, Yingshan and Huangmei.
当时病情较重的大部分集中在三病区，所以三病区的人手相对多一些。
At that time, most of the severe cases were concentrated in the three disease areas, so the three disease area relatively more hands.
我和来自罗田县的何君和李金三个人负责四病区的20个病人。
I and three people from Luotian county, He Jun and Li Jin are in charge of 20 patients in the four-disease area.
可怕的是这里连呼叫铃都没有，也就是说，病人有什么事除了靠扯着喉咙喊，没有其他方式通知我们。
Terrible is the fact that there is no call-bell, that is to say, there is nothing the patient can do but yell at his throat and inform us otherwise.
所我们只好不停地一个个病房巡视，怕病人有什么突发状况发现不及时，不能及时处理。
So we have to constantly patrol one ward after another, afraid of patients have a sudden discovery not in time, can not be timely.
我们认定一个宗旨，忙乱可以，但不允许出错。
We believe that a purpose, busy can be, but not allowed to make mistakes.
我们一一核对清楚病人的姓名，以及需用药的药名。
We checked the names of the patients and the names of the medicines to be used.
到下午快2点才完成所有病人的输液。
It's almost 2: 00 p. m. to complete all patient transfusions.
接下来又是不休止地换药，拔针。
And then there was the endless change of medicine and the pulling of needles.
中途午饭送来的时候，我们以最快速度发送到每一个病人手上，让他们趁热吃，因为我们知道这里连微波炉都没有。
When lunch was delivered, we sent it as fast as we could to every patient and let them eat it hot, because we knew there was no microwave.
忙完一天才发现，我们竟然都忘了自己没喝水，没吃饭。
Busy day before we found out that we even forgot that they did not drink water, did not eat.
下班脱下防护服时，衣服全都汗湿了。
My clothes were all wet when I took off my protective clothing after work.
上班忙得热，病人却都一个个喊冷，只能不停给他们加被子。
Busy work, the patients are one after another called cold, can only keep adding quilts to them.
因为这里要么没空调，要么空调坏了。
Because there is no air conditioning or the air conditioner is broken.
我们向上面反映，下午就安排了专业人员过来维修空调和线路，努力给病人提供一个好的环境。
As we have shown above, professional staff have been assigned in the afternoon to repair the air conditioners and lines in an effort to provide a good environment for patients.
传染病医院比较简陋杂乱的环境【徐志礼：麻城市人民医院呼吸内科副主任】1月22日经过两天快速培训，今天，我们被安排到黄冈市惠民医院，正式参加新型冠状病毒的肺炎诊疗工作。
Hospital for Infectious Diseases is in a rudimentary and chaotic environment [Xu Zhili: Deputy Director of Respiratory Medicine, Massachusetts People's Hospital] On January 22, after two days of intensive training, we were assigned to Huimin Hospital in Huimin, Huanggang City, to participate in the diagnosis and treatment of the new coronavirus.
其它首批轮训的医护人员分别来自红安、英山、罗田、黄梅等县市，也被分至其它新冠肺炎救治点。
The other first batch of nurses came from Hongan, Yingshan, Luotian and Huangmei counties, and were also treated with the new crown pneumonia.
此前，一份黄冈市卫健委文件、以及本院医务科的一通电话，打乱了我的一切安排——我被抽调去黄冈市支援新冠肺炎的诊疗工作。
Earlier, a Huanggang City health committee documents, as well as the hospital medical section of a telephone, disrupted all my arrangements - I was transferred to Huanggang City to support the diagnosis and treatment of New Crown Pneumonia.
安顿好科室手头的一些事，匆匆驱车去了趟岳父岳母家，算是提前拜个年。
To settle down some things in the department in hand, hurriedly drove to his father-in-law's mother-in-law's house, a good year ahead of schedule.
前天一大早，我带着些简单的行李，在麻城市卫健局局长邓进飞、麻城市人民医院院长曹学兰带队下，与我院两位护士同事，还有（麻城市）二医院及中医院的另三位同行一起，赶赴黄冈市卫健委参加轮训。
Early the day before yesterday, I took some simple luggage with me, Deng Jinfei, director of the Massachusetts Institute of Health, Cao Xuelan, the director of the Massachusetts Institute of People's Medicine, and three other colleagues from our hospital.
1月23日惠民医院感染病区医护团队，主要由黄冈市中医院医护人员组成，加之来自麻城市的医师2名、护士4名。
On January 23, a medical team from the infected area of Huimin Hospital was composed mainly of medical staff from the Huanggang Hospital, plus two doctors and four nurses from Massachusetts.
我作为麻城支援队队长，对麻城6人团队的生活起居安排等临时负责。
As head of the Massachusetts General Support Team, I was temporarily responsible for the living arrangements of the six-person team in Massachusetts.
今天，就一些生活事务方面，我与惠民医院相关负责人进行了沟通；在院感、医疗、设备布置等方面，也向院方提了些合理化建议。
Today, on some aspects of life, I have communicated with the relevant officials of the Wimin Hospital; in terms of hospital feeling, medical treatment, equipment layout, etc., I have also put forward some reasonable suggestions to the hospital.
紧张的临床救治工作就此展开了。
The intensive clinical treatment work has begun.
就在这几天，惠民医院的入院疑似病例由最初的50多人次到快速上升到近百人次。
In the past few days, the number of suspected hospital admissions to Huimin Hospital has risen from more than 50 to nearly 100.
我知道，这场战“疫”开始了。
I know that the battle has begun.
【孙璐：黄冈市黄州区四海社区网格员】1月22日我在黄冈市黄州区四海社区工作，一名社区网格员。
Sun Lu: Huanggang District, Huangzhou District Community Grid. January 22, I work in the Huangzhou District Huangzhou community, a community grid.
四海社区是企改社区，我们网格员的主要工作：治安秩序维护、矛盾纠纷化解、实有人口管理、政策宣传，便民利民服务等。
The four-sea community is the reform community, our grid members' main work: public order maintenance, conflict resolution, real population management, policy advocacy, to facilitate the people and people's services.
比如说给居民开各种证明，上门调解邻里纠纷，协助经济普查，人口普查，配合消防每日进行消防排查等。
For example, the residents issued various certificates, home mediation neighbors disputes, assistance with economic census, census, daily fire fighting, and so on.
新冠肺炎疫情开始后，我也多了份担当与责任。
After the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia, I also took on more responsibility.
今天我发了很多宣传单，挨家挨户到家门上贴通知，呼吁大家不要出门。
Today, I handed out a lot of flyers, door-to-door stickers, urging people not to go out.
之前还觉得这次疫情和普通流感差不多，但最近感觉变严重了。
It was previously thought to be about the same as ordinary flu, but it has been feeling worse lately.
突然想起去年12月有亲戚从武汉回来，她陪孩子在武汉读书，那个时候大家都还不知道这个疫情。
Suddenly remembered last December when a relative returned from Wuhan, she accompanied her children in Wuhan, when everyone did not know the epidemic.
今天打了电话，幸亏他们现在还都挺好的，目前还没有发热的情况。
Today, I called and luckily they are all fine now. There is no fever at the moment.
更多没有防备的人被感染，然后被确诊送院治疗。
More unguarded people are infected and are then diagnosed for treatment.
一位感染了新冠肺炎的女儿从武汉回黄冈娘家为病逝的母亲奔丧，不幸将一家10名亲友都感染了。
A daughter infected with pneumonia returned to her mother's home in Huanggang from Wuhan to mourn her mother's death, tragically infecting 10 family members.
【梦轩：治愈新冠肺炎患者】1月21日住院第三天，我哥哥从深圳赶回来了。
Futagami: Healing the Patients With New Crown Pneumonia On January 21, my brother returned from Shenzhen for the third day of hospitalization.
我哥当时就站在病房窗外迟迟不肯离开，他眼泪在打转，我知道他担心我。
My brother was standing outside the ward window, his tears twirling. I knew he was worried about me.
他也不害怕传染，一日三餐都给我送饭，有热腾腾的肉汤，也有青菜和米饭。
He was not afraid of infection. He gave me three meals a day, hot broth, vegetables and rice.
当时医院里也有病号伙食，尽管不是很好。
There was sick food in the hospital, too, though not very well.
其实那时候到处封路，送饭会被劝阻，真的很不容易，我也很感动。
In fact, at that time everywhere blocked the road, the delivery of food will be discouraged, really not easy, I am also very moved.
我怕哥哥担心，坚持每天跟他汇报病情，比如说“今天比昨天好多了，请你们放心”这样的话，其实也是在鼓励自己要有信心，一定要挺过来！那段日子里，我的好朋友偶尔也会送来鸡汤，每天从早到晚发消息关心我的病情，鼓励我挺下去。
I am afraid my brother is worried and I insist on reporting my illness to him every day, such as "Today is much better than yesterday, please rest assured." In those days, my good friends occasionally send chicken soup, from morning to night to care about my illness and encourage me to stay there.
如果有消息说什么药物对治疗“新冠肺炎”有帮助，朋友们都会想方设法帮弄到，送过来。
If there's any news that drugs might be helpful in treating New Crown Pneumonia, friends will try to get it and deliver it.
后面，我坚决拒绝了哥哥和其他朋友的送汤送饭。
Later, I firmly rejected my brother and other friends to send soup and food.
来往医院或者在路上，都有暴露被感染的风险。
There is a risk of exposure to infection both during travel to and from hospitals and on the road.
我怕他们因我而感染，那我无论如何过意不去。
I'm afraid they're infected with me, and I'm sorry anyway.
1月22日从19日我住进病房开始，医院不断收治到新的病患。
January 22nd From the day I was admitted to the ward on January 19th, the hospital kept receiving new patients.
每个病房四五个床位，听医生说，医院很快就要住满了。
Four or five beds in each ward, according to the doctor, the hospital will soon be full.
我们病房4张床位很快满员。
Four beds in our ward soon filled up.
邻床病友是一位40岁多岁的武汉人，娘家在黄冈。
Next to the bed patient is a 40-year-old Wuhan, her family in Huanggang.
前一阵子她因年老的妈妈去世回家奔丧，之前就有类似感冒症状，办完丧事她也被确诊“新冠肺炎”，送医隔离治疗。
Some time ago she came home from the death of her old mother with flu-like symptoms. She was diagnosed with New Crown Pneumonia and treated in isolation.
不幸地是，她娘家十个人估计都被感染，陆续全被确诊送医。
Unfortunately, ten members of her mother's family are believed to have been infected and are being treated.
在病房里，这位病友因为病痛，也因为心理压力大，每天哭泣。
In the ward, the sick man cried every day because of illness and psychological stress.
据她说，不少亲友都在责怪埋怨她。
According to her, many friends and relatives are blaming her.
另外两位病友，大概都在50岁左右，都是黄冈人。
The other two patients, both about 50 years old, were all Huanggang people.
一个是家庭主妇，平常喜欢呼朋聚友打麻将，另外一位经常走村串门做“法事”。
One is a housewife, usually like to play Mahjong Hupung friends, another often go to the village to do "law."
如何感染上“新冠病毒”，她们自己都有些说不清楚。
How to get infected with the new crown virus is not clear to them.
初入医院的几天，治疗护理等有不到位的地方，连医护自身都没办法做好防护。
The first few days into the hospital, treatment and care, such as places not in place, even the medical themselves can not do a good job of protection.
医生、护士戴着普通的一次性医用口罩、眼罩，白大褂外面套一件长风衣似的一次性防护服。
Doctors and nurses wear ordinary disposable medical masks, eye masks, white coats and a long windbreaker-like disposable protective clothing.
病人太多，打针换药的频率很高，医护进入病房的频率却并不高。
There are too many patients, the frequency of needle exchange is very high, the frequency of medical care into the ward is not high.
有时候输液盐水完了，病人按铃几次护士才能进来。
Sometimes when the infusion brine has run out, the patient rings the bell several times before the nurse enters.
我其实很理解：面对新冠肺炎这种高传染疾病，在这种简陋的防护条件下，医生护士也是胆战心惊的，谁能不怕死呢！住院开始的几天，医院并没有得到新冠肺炎免费治疗的政策。
I really understand that doctors and nurses are terrified of the possibility of dying under these rudimentary protective conditions in the face of a highly contagious disease like Newcastle Pneumonia, a hospital that did not receive free treatment for pneumonia in the first few days of hospitalization.
病人的治疗，除了医保报销项目，其他都需要病人自费。
The patient's treatment, with the exception of Medicare reimbursement, requires the patient to pay his or her own expenses.
【金昊：治愈新冠肺炎患者】1月21日这一天，我在朋友圈看到有个朋友已经确诊感染了“新冠肺炎”。
Jin Hao: Cure New Crown Pneumonia On January 21, I saw a friend in a circle of friends who had been diagnosed with New Crown Pneumonia.
我打电话和她了解情况，说是因为重感冒去黄冈市一家医院住院输液时感染的。
I called her to find out what had happened when I went to a hospital in Huanggang with a bad cold and got an infection.
我联想到不久前也去过这家医院，感觉心里有点打鼓，于是回家商量后，决定从明天起开始独居隔离。
I thought of going to the hospital not long ago. I felt a little bit drummed up, so I went home to discuss it, and decided to start living in isolation tomorrow.
儿子放假在母亲家。
The son stayed at his mother's house.
老婆年前上班比较忙，她单位离娘家近，干脆就让她住在娘家了。
Wife year ago to work more busy, her unit away from her mother's home, simply let her live in her mother's home.
我属于比较谨慎的性格。
I belong to a more cautious character.
当时家人觉得我单独隔离有点小题大作，我安慰他们说，如果是普通感冒更好，过几天就好了就没事了，免得不小心传染给小孩，大过年的看病不方便。
At that time, the family felt that I isolated a little fussy, I comforted them, if it is a common cold better, after a few days will be fine, so as not to infect the children carelessly, the big New Year's doctor is inconvenient.
1月22日轻微干咳。
January 22 has a mild dry cough.
一个人隔离在家，并开始服用板蓝根，莲花清瘟。
One man isolated at home and began to take Banlangen, Lotus Rinderpest.
因为快过年，家里存储了不少食物和菜、肉。
Because the New Year is coming, the family has stored a lot of food and vegetables, meat.
早饭我自己随便做点，中饭和晚饭由妻子送过来，通常都是中午一起送，晚饭我加热了再吃。
I make my own breakfast. My wife brings me lunch and dinner, usually at noon, and I heat dinner before eating.
我把自己关在家里。
I shut myself up at home.
每天看书和手机新闻打发时间。
Spend time reading and cell phone news every day.
最远就是去过一次楼下3分钟可到的超市采购生活物资。
The furthest is to go to a supermarket three minutes downstairs to purchase supplies.
街上行人稀少，马路上空荡荡的，几分钟才见一辆车驶过。
The streets were sparsely populated, the streets were deserted, and a vehicle passed only a few minutes later.
几天以来，各类店铺、小超市都纷纷关门了，只有药店和比较大的超市还开着门，用于满足市民基本生活需要。
In the past few days, shops and supermarkets of all kinds have closed. Only pharmacies and larger supermarkets have opened doors to meet the basic needs of citizens.
1月23日轻微干咳。
January 23 has a mild dry cough.
突然看到武汉封城的消息，感觉到事情可能比较严重了，毕竟封城的影响是巨大的，这已经已经不是疾病防控了，而是一场实实在在的疾病战争。
Wuhan suddenly saw the news, feel that things may be more serious, after all, the impact of the closure is huge, this is no longer disease control, but a real disease war.
我也开始狂搜相关新闻，对比自己的症状，感觉还是有点差异，也就放下紧张，心想着应该是普通感冒。
I also began to frantically search the relevant news, compare their symptoms, or feel a little different, also relax the tension, think it should be a common cold.
妻子每天送饭过来时，我会要求她戴上口罩，我自己也会戴上口罩。
When my wife brings me food every day, I will ask her to wear a mask, and I will wear a mask myself.
我在朋友圈里看到，一位在武汉同济医院做脑科医生（疫情后支援呼吸科）的高中同学被确诊新冠肺炎。
I saw in the circle of friends, a high school student in Wuhan Tongji Hospital as a brain doctor (post-epidemic support respiratory unit) was diagnosed with New Crown Pneumonia.
明显感觉到，朋友圈和各个微信群里，朋友们关注新冠肺炎多起来了，慌张的气氛渐渐弥漫开来，有人担心这次疫情会不会比SARS严重。
There was a palpable sense that friends were concerned about the new crown pneumonia in the circle of friends and micro-letters, and panic was creeping up. Some feared the outbreak would be worse than SARS.
【叶薇：治愈新冠肺炎患者，大四学生】1月22日爸爸已经发烧五天不退，我有弱弱地问过他：不会真的是新冠肺炎吧？他还不以为意，但已经打了5天针，还是没有丝毫好转。
Ivy: Cure New Crown Pneumonia, Senior Student January 22 My father had a fever for five days and I asked him weakly, Can't it really be New Crown Pneumonia?
早上，爸爸打电话给社区诊所医生询问情况，因为我家去过武汉，医生建议赶紧去市医院看看。
In the morning, father called the community clinic doctor to ask about the situation, because my family has been to Wuhan, the doctor advised to go to the city hospital.
上午爸爸和妈妈一起去麻城市人民医院检查身体，CT显示肺部大量感染，因满足去过武汉、发烧等条件，爸爸直接被收治进行隔离治疗。
In the morning, my father and mother went to Massachusetts People's Hospital to have a physical examination. CT showed a large number of lung infections.
作为爸爸的密切接触者的我，此时也已经间歇性持续低烧，我和妈妈决定明天要一起去医院检查一下。
As a father's close contact with me, this time has been intermittent low fever, my mother and I decided to go to the hospital tomorrow to check.
晚上我已经有害怕，趁着在卫生间洗漱的时候我发了条微博：我是湖北黄冈麻城人，今天我爸爸因为疑似肺炎被隔离了，还要住院观察……十号的时候我家有自驾去武汉，并去了人口密集区买衣服……我有持续性低烧，之前嗓子不舒服吞口水都疼，打了两天针感觉好了，但鼻子还是有点堵。
At night, I was afraid, while washing in the bathroom I sent a message: I am Huanggang Massachusetts, Hubei Province, my father was quarantined for suspected pneumonia, and I had to go to Wuhan on the 10th day and buy clothes in densely populated areas.
我想问下我们这些症状是武汉肺炎（编者注：新冠肺炎）吗，大家有没有什么意见可告知，非常感谢。
I'd like to ask if these symptoms are Wuhan Pneumonia (Editor's Note: New Crown Pneumonia).
我才大四，还没有工作，不想人生像开了加速器一样……发完微博后，我想和妈妈说说话，我们俩一起坐到三楼桌子旁。
I'm a senior, I haven't got a job, I don't want to live like an accelerator... After microblogging, I wanted to talk to Mom, and we sat down together at the table on the third floor.
这个时候我很担心爸爸，他几乎没有选择权地住进医院。
At the moment I was worried about Dad, who was living in a hospital with little choice.
明天我和妈妈都要去检查，无论是我还是妈妈在住进医院，对于我们这个三口之家，都难以接受。
Tomorrow my mother and I are going to check, whether my mother or I live in the hospital, for our family of three, it is difficult to accept.
如果我进去了，我妈怎么办？我长这么大她都很少一个人在家，小时候遇到爸爸出差，我妈甚至会来和我睡，而且我妈连体温计都不认识，如果她一个人在家发烧了怎么办？如果我妈进去了，我一个小孩又该怎么办？我连我们家银行卡的密码都不知道，他们需要钱我都拿不到。
If I went in, what would my mother do? She seldom came home alone when I was this big. My mother would even sleep with my father when I was a child, and my mother would not even know the thermometer.
于是，妈妈把我家银行卡的密码一个个告诉我，还安慰我说“哭出来好点，哭出来就舒服了”。
So my mother told me the password of my bank card one by one, and comforted me by saying, "Cry out better, cry out to be comfortable."
我也不是想哭，就是情难自禁。
I either want to cry or I can't help myself.
哎！都这时候了，我们一家人得做好打一场硬仗的准备了。
Well, it's time for our family to get ready for a hard fight.
这一晚，妈妈只跟我表达过一个想法：明天我们两个人一起去，也一定要一起回来哈，答应我要一起回来。
This evening, my mother only told me one idea: tomorrow we will go together, must also come back together ha, promised me to come back together.
我回答：“嗯。
"I replied," Hmm.
”麻城市人民医院发热门诊附近的导引牌1月23日早上七点一到，我和妈妈便从床上爬了起来。
My mother and I climbed out of bed on January 23, at seven o'clock in the morning, near the fever clinic at Massachusetts People's Hospital.
昨天爸爸突然被隔离治疗，没有带任何东西，今天我们也要去医院给他送洗漱用品。
Yesterday my father was treated in isolation, without anything with him, and today we are going to the hospital to bring him toiletries.
早上的医院还很安静，大家都带着口罩，除了呼呼吹来的风，只有阵阵咳嗽声传来。
The morning hospital was quiet, with everyone wearing masks and coughing except for the blowing wind.
我们先去的感染科住院部，此时医院已经用隔离带划分好了各种区域，除了住院病人，只有送东西的人可以跨过感染科前面的这条隔离带。
We went first to the Infection Department, where the hospital had already zoned out various areas, except for inpatients, where only the courier could cross the isolation strip in front of the infection section.
感染科的伸缩门被一把大锁锁着，我们需要先给爸爸打电话，爸爸再按铃叫护士，护士下来代领东西，这中间颇要一段时间。
The infection department's telescopic door was locked by a big lock. We needed to call Dad first. Dad rang the bell for the nurse, and the nurse came down to pick it up.
我们也遇见了同样戴口罩来送东西的两个人。
We also met two men wearing masks to deliver things.
我很想问问别人家的情况，但妈妈瞟了我一眼，示意我不要多说话，我便也不好再出声了。
I wanted to ask someone what was going on at home, but my mother glanced at me and motioned me not to talk more.
护士终于下来了，向我们确认好床号和病人姓名这才开门把东西拿进去，还一脸严肃地叮嘱我们：“你们家人送东西要一次送齐，不要一直往这跑，这里不是什么好地方，我们也很忙。
The nurse finally came down, confirmed the bed number and the patient's name, opened the door, took the things in, and said to us gravely, "Your family needs to send things all at once, not all the way here.
”我们只得应着，看来不仅是我们，医院的护士也很紧张吧。
"We had to respond, and it seemed that not only we, but also the nurses at the hospital, were nervous.
接下来，我和妈妈去门诊登记信息，然后量体温、挂号，等上三五分钟凑齐五六个人，护士便会把我们一起带到发热门诊，我们再在这里等待叫号。
Next, my mother and I went to the clinic to check in the information, then took my temperature, registered, and waited three or five minutes for five or six people, and the nurse would take us to the fever clinic, where we would wait for a call.
发热门诊在单独的一小栋房子里，进门是一条大概两人宽、三五米长的小道，护士便在这里收大家的挂号条。
The Heat Clinic is in a small separate house. Inside it is a path about two people wide and three or five meters long.
更多的人为了避免交叉感染，还是选择等在外面。
More people choose to wait outside in order to avoid cross-infection.
这里咳嗽的人更多一些。
There are more people coughing here.
我和妈妈早上来，一直到中午才轮到我们看病。
My mother and I came in the morning and it wasn't our turn to see the doctor until noon.
医生问诊完，便是去做血常规和CT，血常规大概半个小时可以拿结果，CT应该是等到了下午三四点。
After the doctor's consultation, is to do blood routine and CT, blood routine about half an hour can get the results, CT should wait until 3 or 4 pm.
我稍稍看了下CT报告单，我妈应该是只有支气管炎，而我应该是肺部有炎症了。
I took a look at the CT report. My mom was supposed to have bronchitis, and I was supposed to have inflammation in my lungs.
果然，医生先看完我妈的片子再看我的，问了句：“你妈没有感染，你怎么被感染了呢？”听到这句话，我应该是有点歉意的笑了笑。
Sure enough, the doctor watched my mom's film before seeing mine and asked, "How did you get infected when your mother wasn't infected?" I should have smiled apologetically.
我想没有办法了，我已经被感染了，只有接受了。
I don't think I can help it. I'm infected. I just have to accept it.
CT片子显示，我双肺下叶少许感染。
CT scans showed a slight infection in my lower lobe.
医生建议早治疗，但也不强制我住院，甚至还微笑地推荐我去给对面那位医生看看，对面医生是感染科专家。
The doctor advised early treatment, but did not force me to go to the hospital. He even smiled and recommended me to see the doctor across the street, who was an infection specialist.
医生说，如果要住院的话，我就得直接办理住院手续。
The doctor said that if I had to be hospitalized, I would have to go straight to the hospital.
我有点害怕，但是万一真的是这个病，我不住院回去也是祸害人。
I'm a little scared, but if it's really the disease, it's a scourge if I don't go back to the hospital.
纠结再三，我办了住院手续。
After many problems, I went to the hospital.
因为到处都有隔离带限制，妈妈不能送我过去，我便只有硬着头皮往前走了，可是却被告知感染科里已经住满了，如果再进人，就必须两人一间，我不愿意冒这个险，与医生协商后，决定回家住一晚，第二天麻城就有试剂盒了，我直接来做试剂盒检查。
As there were restrictions on the quarantine zone everywhere, my mother could not see me through, so I had to go ahead hard, but was told that the infective unit was full, and if anyone else came in, I would not risk it.
这晚下起蒙蒙细雨，我带着帽子等着已经回家的妈妈来接我。
It was a drizzling night, and I was waiting for my mother, who had come home, to pick me up with my hat.
我只想着，今天我终于还是回了家，我答应妈妈的事我做到了。
I just thought, today I finally returned home, I promised my mother I did.
（文中梦轩、叶薇为化名）【未完待续】(本文来自澎湃新闻，更多原创资讯请下载“澎湃新闻”APP)。
(This article comes from Peng Pai News. For more original information, please download the "Peng Pai News" APP).
责任编辑：储静伟图片编辑：蒋立冬校对：栾梦。
Responsible Editor: Zhang Jingwei Photo Editor: Jiang Liedong proofread by Luan.
澎湃新闻报料：4009-20-4009  澎湃新闻，未经授权不得转载。
Pai news: 4009-20-4009 surging news, not allowed to reproduce without authorization.
关键词 >> 抗疫日记,黄冈,抗疫。
Key words & gt; & gt; anti-epidemic diary, Huanggang, anti-epidemic.
收藏。
Collection.
跟踪: 抗疫日记。
Tracking: Anti-epidemic diary.
相关推荐。
Relevant recommendations.
黄冈卫健委：疫情期间，全市各医院安排怀孕医护人员在家休息。
Huanggang Fitness Committee: During the epidemic period, the city's hospitals arranged for pregnant medical staff to rest at home.
应勇赴黄冈检查指导：弘扬革命老区精神，疫情防控不胜不休。
Yingyong to Huanggang inspection guidance: carry forward the spirit of the old revolutionary areas, the epidemic prevention and control invincible.
湖北黄冈紧急再造两所“小汤山”医院，新增床位500余。
Huanggang Huanggang emergency reconstruction of two "Xiaotangshan" hospitals, more than 500 beds.
评论（119）。
Comment (119).
热新闻。
Hot news.
一天。
One day.
三天。
Three days.
一周。
One week.
湖北潜江：26号通告取消，继续实行严格交通管制、人员管控。
Hubei buried river: Notice 26 canceled, continue to implement strict traffic control, personnel control.
曾手写遗书，感染新冠病毒的武汉大四女孩毕业前上“生死课”。
Once handwritten will, infected with the new crown virus Wuhan four-year-old girl before graduation "life and death lessons."
湖北：分区分级分类分时有序推进复工复产，继续延迟学校开学。
Hubei: Divisional classification according to time and order to promote the resumption of work, continue to delay the opening of schools.
中国红十字会组建7人抗疫专家组赴意大利。
Chinese Red Cross has set up 7-member anti-epidemic team to Italy.
美国新冠肺炎确诊病例超过1000例，累计死亡31人。
There were more than 1000 confirmed cases and 31 cumulative deaths in the US.
国家卫健委：昨日新增新冠肺炎确诊病例24例，湖北13例。
National Fitness and Health Commission: New cases were confirmed yesterday, 24 cases in Hubei Province and 13 cases in Hubei Province.
武汉市委原常委蔡杰等3人分别被决定逮捕。
Wuhan Municipal Committee of the original Standing Committee Cai Jie three people were arrested.
泉州坍塌酒店初步调查：建设、改造和审批等方面存在严重问题。
Quanzhou Hotel collapse preliminary investigation: construction, renovation and approval, there are serious problems.
武汉必将再一次被载入英雄史册！。
Wuhan will once again be recorded in the annals of heroes.
全球第二例艾滋治愈确认！停药两年半，终身缓解概率超99%。
The second global AIDS cure confirmed! Stop drugs for two and a half years, life-long remission probability over 99%.
湖北潜江：26号通告取消，继续实行严格交通管制、人员管控。
Hubei buried river: Notice 26 canceled, continue to implement strict traffic control, personnel control.
习近平总书记关切事｜携手下好一盘棋，京津冀战“疫”进行时。
Xi Jinping, the general secretary, was concerned about the plague when he joined hands to fight it.
这场人民战争统帅心中的三个“第一”。
The three "first" in the minds of the commander of the people's war.
曾手写遗书，感染新冠病毒的武汉大四女孩毕业前上“生死课”。
Once handwritten will, infected with the new crown virus Wuhan four-year-old girl before graduation "life and death lessons."
习近平抵武汉考察新冠肺炎疫情防控工作。
Xi arrived in Wuhan to investigate the prevention and control of the disease.
美股熔断！开盘后全线暴跌超7%，三大股指暂停交易15分钟。
U.S. stocks meltdown! After the opening line plummeted by more than 7%, the three main stock indexes suspended trading for 15 minutes.
“爱达太阳”号邮轮发现两名疑似病例，该船可搭乘两千名乘客。
The Ida Sun found two suspected cases that could carry 2,000 passengers.
意大利死亡病例数暴增57%，死亡率升至全球最高。
Italy has seen its death toll soar by 57 per cent, the highest in the world.
一家“遍体鳞伤”的武汉三甲医院。
A "black and blue" Wuhan Sanjia Hospital.
湖北：分区分级分类分时有序推进复工复产，继续延迟学校开学。
Hubei: Divisional classification according to time and order to promote the resumption of work, continue to delay the opening of schools.
中国驻俄罗斯使馆高度关注中国公民被遣返事。
The Chinese Embassy in Russia is highly concerned about the repatriation of Chinese citizens.
福建泉州酒店坍塌事故已致6人死亡，28人正在搜救。
The Quanzhou Hotel collapse in Fujian Province has killed six people and left 28 in search and rescue.
湖北潜江：26号通告取消，继续实行严格交通管制、人员管控。
Hubei buried river: Notice 26 canceled, continue to implement strict traffic control, personnel control.
习近平总书记关切事｜携手下好一盘棋，京津冀战“疫”进行时。
Xi Jinping, the general secretary, was concerned about the plague when he joined hands to fight it.
这场人民战争统帅心中的三个“第一”。
The three "first" in the minds of the commander of the people's war.
曾手写遗书，感染新冠病毒的武汉大四女孩毕业前上“生死课”。
Once handwritten will, infected with the new crown virus Wuhan four-year-old girl before graduation "life and death lessons."
山东省检察机关依法决定对任城监狱疫情事件相关人员立案侦查。
Shandong Provincial Procuratorate decided to file a case against the personnel involved in the epidemic situation in Ren Cheng prison.
伊朗新增新冠肺炎确诊病例1076例，累计确诊5823例。
There were 1076 newly diagnosed cases of new crown pneumonia in Iran and 5,823 cases were diagnosed cumulatively.
孝感安陆一纪委干部感染新冠肺炎去世。
Filial piety An Lu a discipline committee cadre infects new crown pneumonia dies.
财政部：2月湖北国库仅有零星收入，将按周调度资金给湖北。
Ministry of Finance: Hubei treasury has only sporadic income in February, will dispatch funds to Hubei on a weekly basis.
澎湃新闻APP下载。
Pai news APP download.
热话题。
Hot topics.
一天。
One day.
三天。
Three days.
一周。
One week.
我旅居意大利17年,疫情下当地民众生活什么样,问我吧!。
I've been living in Italy for 17 years. Ask me what life is like for the local population.
我是上海对外经贸大学教授李辉文,关于简单经济学,问吧!。
I am Li Peiwen, professor of Shanghai Foreign Trade University, asking about simple economics.
疫情面前，你家亲戚让你操心了吗？。
Did your relatives worry you about the outbreak?
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
我是东京大学人文社会系访问学者苗壮,日本是如何研究汉学的,问我吧!。
I am Miao Zhuang, visiting scholar of Department of Humanities and Society, University of Tokyo.
我旅居意大利17年,疫情下当地民众生活什么样,问我吧!。
I've been living in Italy for 17 years. Ask me what life is like for the local population.
疫情面前，你家亲戚让你操心了吗？。
Did your relatives worry you about the outbreak?
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
我是上海对外经贸大学教授李辉文,关于简单经济学,问吧!。
I am Li Peiwen, professor of Shanghai Foreign Trade University, asking about simple economics.
我致力于流行文化及性别研究,什么是耽美亚文化,问吧!。
I'm committed to pop culture and gender studies. What is the addictive subculture? Ask.
我旅居意大利17年,疫情下当地民众生活什么样,问我吧!。
I've been living in Italy for 17 years. Ask me what life is like for the local population.
疫情面前，你家亲戚让你操心了吗？。
Did your relatives worry you about the outbreak?
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
我致力于流行文化及性别研究,什么是耽美亚文化,问吧!。
I'm committed to pop culture and gender studies. What is the addictive subculture? Ask.
我是在日本新闻一线工作,新冠疫情中日本政界和民众态度如何,问我吧!。
I am working in the front line of Japanese journalism. What is the attitude of Japanese politics and people in the New Crown Epidemic? Ask me.
热门推荐。
Hot recommendations.
教育部：网课不得强行要求中小学生每日打卡，上传学习视频。
Ministry of Education: The net class must not force the primary and secondary school students daily card, upload study video.
中央指导组：有1.2万余名支援湖北医务人员为90后00后。
Central guidance group: There are more than 12,000 medical staff supporting Hubei after 90 years.
中央指导组：湖北超三千名医护人员感染，大多非传染科医生。
Central guidance group: Hubei more than 3,000 medical personnel infected, most non-infectious doctors.
28年前南医大女生被杀案嫌犯被批准逮捕。
28 years ago, the murder of a female student was approved for arrest.
财政部：2月湖北国库仅有零星收入，将按周调度资金给湖北。
Ministry of Finance: Hubei treasury has only sporadic income in February, will dispatch funds to Hubei on a weekly basis.
var lbdHeight = $(".head_ad").height()+$(".head").height()+$(".main_rt").height()-260; //滑到体到顶部的高度。
var lbdLight = $(& quot; .head _ ad & quot;) .height () + $(& quot; .head & quot;) .height () + $(& quot; .main _ rt & quot;) .light (-260; / / sliding to top height.
var topHeight = parseInt($(window).scrollTop() + 1 + 70);  //浮动频道高度70。
var topLight = parseInt ($(window) .scrollTop (+ 1 + 70); / / floating channel height 70.
联系我们。
Contact us.
关于澎湃。
About the roar.
在澎湃工作。
Working in the roar.
联系我们。
Contact us.
版权声明。
Copyright statement.
隐私政策。
Privacy policy.
澎湃广告。
There was a roaring advertisement.
友情链接。
Links to friends.
澎湃新闻举报受理和处置办法。
Measures for handling and handling surging news reports.
严正声明。
Solemn declaration.
Copyright © 2014~2020 The Paper All rights reserved.上海东方报业有限公司 | 沪ICP证：沪B2-20170116 | 沪ICP备14003370号 | 互联网新闻信息服务许可证：31120170006。
Shanghai Oriental Daily News Ltd. & # 144; Shanghai ICP Certificate: Shanghai B2-20170116 & # 124; Shanghai ICP Readiness 14003370 & # 124; Internet News Information Service license: 31120170006.
沪公网安备 31010602000299号。
Shanghai Public Net 3101 602000299.
站长统计。
Station master statistics.
c={//监测配置。
c = {/ monitoring configuration.
UA:"UA-thepaper-000002", //客户项目编号,由系统生成。
UA: & quot; UA-theaper-000002 & quot;, / or customer project number, generated by the system.
URL:'//file.thepaper.cn/www/v3/js/iwt-min.js'//iwt.js的URL位置，请客户自行托管JS文件，只需修改此值。
URL::: / / file.thepaper.cn / www.v3 / js / iwt-min.js & apos; / / iwt.js URL location; and / or iwt.js, have its client manage a JS file by yourself, simply modify this value.
//多视频。
/ / Multi-Video.
