一家 “遍体鳞伤”的武汉三甲医院。
A "black and blue" Wuhan Sanjia Hospital.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻记者 薛莎莎武汉市中心医院武汉市中心医院呼吸内科医生吴敏穿上同事穿过的防护服，走进隔离病房。
Peng Pai journalist Xue Sha Sha Han City Central Hospital Wuhan City Central Hospital Respiratory physician Wu Min put on the protective clothing colleagues wear, walked into the isolation ward.
那是1月15日的深夜，吴敏已有发热症状，但隔离病房有两位危重患者需要抢救，她和同事忙到凌晨，还是没能挽回两位患者的生命。
It was late at night on January 15 and Wu had fever, but two critically ill patients in the isolation ward needed rescuing. She and her colleagues were too busy until the early hours of the morning to save the lives of two patients.
第二天，吴敏被安排住院治疗。
The next day, Wu Min was hospitalized.
到了下午，一名小护士也住了进来，20岁出头，染了病很害怕，在病房里给家人打电话，连哭了两天。
In the afternoon, a small nurse came in, in her early twenties, sick and frightened, phoned her family in the ward and cried for two days.
一向乐观的吴敏见小护士哭，一边安慰一边也跟着哭起来。
Wu Minmei, who had always been optimistic, began to cry as she comforted the nurse.
武汉市中心医院有南京路和后湖两个院区，共三千多名医护人员。
Wuhan city central hospital has Nanjing Road and Houhu two courtyard area, a total of more than 3,000 medical personnel.
从后湖院区步行十几分钟，就是此次新冠肺炎疫情的“风暴眼”——华南海鲜市场。
A 10-minute walk from the Houhu courtyard is the eye of the storm - the South China seafood market.
随着发热病人增多，外科医生刘毅1月底被派往后湖院区发热门诊支援，坐诊七天，他每天都能碰见本院医护来看病。
As the number of febrile patients increased, Liu Yi, a surgeon, was assigned to the lake courtyard at the end of January for seven days of consultation.
医生成了病人。
The doctor became a patient.
一周后，刘毅自己也被确诊了。
A week later, Liu Yi himself was diagnosed.
被派到隔离病房管床的张城有过敏性鼻炎，冬季一直戴着口罩。
Zhangcheng, who was assigned to the isolation ward to manage the bed, had allergic rhinitis and had been wearing a mask in winter.
他可能因此躲过病毒，但同科室有几名同事先后被感染。
He may have escaped the virus, but several of his colleagues in the same unit were infected.
消化内科的赵琳在1月8日支援隔离病房八天后，也感染新冠肺炎住了院。
Zhao Lin of Digestive Medicine was hospitalized with pneumonia eight days after she was admitted to the isolation ward on January 8.
截至3月9日，在这次抗击新冠肺炎疫情的战斗中，武汉市中心医院已先后痛别眼科医生李文亮、主任医师梅仲明、甲状腺乳腺外科主任医师江学庆、眼科副主任医师朱和平等四位优秀医生。
As of March 9, the central hospital in Wuhan had bemoaned ophthalmologist Li Wenliang, chief physician Zhongming, director of thyroid breast surgery director Jiang Xueqing, deputy chief ophthalmologist Zhu He-ping.
目前，泌尿外科副主任医师胡卫锋和心外科副主任医师易凡仍处危重状态，医院副院长王萍也被感染，病情严重。
At present, deputy urology director Hu Weifeng and cardiac surgery deputy director Yi Fan is still in critical condition, hospital vice-president Wang Ping was also infected, serious illness.
送走一位又一位“好兄弟”、“老大哥”，疼痛科主任蔡毅曾发文悼念称，“和大疫的斗争中，中心医院伤亡惨重、遍体鳞伤。
Sending off one "good brother" and "elder brother," Cai Yi, director of the pain department, mourned, "The central hospital suffered heavy casualties and bruises in the battle against the pandemic.
”武汉市中心医院一位内部人士提供的一份《新型冠状病毒疫情处置情况说明》显示，截至一个月前的2月9日，该院共上报职工新冠肺炎确诊病例68例，院外门诊观察147人，住院142人，纳入医学观察医务人员共266人。
An insiders from Wuhan Central Hospital said the hospital had reported 68 confirmed cases of coronavirus as of February 9 a month ago, 147 outpatient visits and 142 hospitalizations, bringing the total number of medical personnel admitted to medical observation to 266.
疫情来临前的平静武汉市中心医院后湖院区离华南海鲜市场很近，走路过去也就十几分钟。
Before the outbreak of calm Wuhan City Central Hospital Houhu District near the South China seafood market, walking past 10 minutes.
市场周边，是大片居民区。
Around the market, there are large residential areas.
武汉市中心医院是这片居民区中唯一一家三甲医院。
Wuhan Central Hospital is the only triple-A hospital in this residential area.
2019年的12月，江城武汉湿冷，流感病人增多。
In December 2019, Wuhan, Jiangcheng wet and cold, flu patients increased.
呼吸内科医生吴敏看完专家门诊还要看普通门诊，每天都很忙碌。
Respiratory physician Wu Min after the expert clinic to see the general clinic, every day is very busy.
流感病人大多也伴有发热症状。
Most flu sufferers also have fever symptoms.
12月中旬，吴敏碰到几例不太一样的病例，有典型的“病毒肺改变”。
In mid-December, Wu Min encountered several unusual cases, typically "viral lung changes."
对于这些病例，她虽有疑虑，但并未在意。
She had doubts about these cases, but she did not mind them.
她的女儿还在闹着要回老家，想和舅舅家的姐姐一起过年，吴敏盘算着等女儿放寒假，找个不值班的日子，回趟老家。
Her daughter is still noisy home, want to spend the New Year with her uncle's sister, Wu Min calculated to wait for her daughter to go winter vacation, find an off-duty day, back home.
艾芬是武汉市中心医院急诊科主任，负责两个院区的急诊工作。
Ifen is the director of emergency department of Wuhan Central Hospital and is responsible for emergency work in two hospital districts.
她此前接受中国新闻周刊采访时介绍，2019年12月18日，她曾在南京路院区接诊一名65岁华南海鲜市场的送货员。
She had been attending a 65-year-old delivery clerk at the South China Seafood Market in Nanjing Road on December 18, 2019, she told China News Weekly.
该病人发高烧，有寒战症状，“双肺多发散在斑片状模糊影”。
The patient has a high fever, chills and symptoms, "both lungs diffuse in the speckle-like blurred shadow."
到了12月底，急诊科已接收多例同类发热病人。
By the end of December, the emergency department had received many cases of fever of the same kind.
急诊科护士章倩和同事们一起按照科室主任和护士长的叮嘱，把医护人员的休息室腾出来，作为发热病人的隔离病房。
Zhang Qian, an emergency nurse, along with her colleagues, vacates the staff lounge as an isolation ward for febrile patients, as instructed by the department director and head nurse.
章倩告诉澎湃新闻，她曾护理过两例之后被确诊为“新冠肺炎”的病人，一位是华南海鲜市场的售货员，另一位是那里的商户。
Zhang told Peng Pai News that she had nursed two patients diagnosed with "new crown pneumonia," a saleswoman at a seafood market in southern China and a businessman there.
那时，章倩不知道这是什么病，只知道科室主任和护士长都挺紧张的，叮嘱他们自己要做好防护。
At that time, Zhang Qian did not know what the disease is, only knew the section director and the head nurse are quite nervous, exhorts themselves to do well the guard.
艾芬在接受前述媒体采访时介绍，去年12月底，她把一名高烧不退、肺部严重感染的病人，送入呼吸科做纤维支气管镜与肺泡灌洗液检验。
At the end of December, she sent a man with a high fever and a severe lung infection to the department of respiration for fiberoptic bronchoscopy and alveolar lavage, Ifen said in the aforementioned media interview.
2019年12月30日，送检的结果显示，该男子感染的是一种冠状病毒。
On December 30, 2019, the results showed that the man was infected with a coronavirus.
化验单上“SARS冠状病毒”字样，让艾芬感到“很可怕”，她第一时间向医院公共卫生科和院感部门报告。
Assay sheet "SARS coronavirus" on the words, Iffen felt "very terrible," she first reported to the hospital public health department and hospital sensory department.
随后，网上开始流传同院眼科医生李文亮在某个微信群中发布的有“SARS冠状病毒”字样的截图。
Subsequently, the Internet began to spread the same hospital ophthalmologist Li Wenliang in a small group of the release of the word "SARS coronavirus" screenshot.
同日，一份盖有武汉市卫健委公章的内部文件《关于做好不明原因肺炎救治工作的紧急通知》也出现在了网络上。
On the same day, an internal document bearing the official seal of the Wuhan Health Commission, "Emergency Notice on the Treatment of Unknown Causes of Pneumonia," appeared on the Internet.
《通知》称，根据上级部门通知，武汉市部分医疗机构陆续出现不明原因肺炎病人，为有效做好此类病人医疗救治工作，各级医疗机构发现不明原因肺炎病人,要及时跟踪统计救治情况，并按要求及时向辖区疾控部门上报有关信息，并同时报送市卫健委医政医管处，重大事项及时报送。
According to the notice, patients with pneumonia with unknown causes have appeared in some medical institutions in Wuhan, and in order to effectively carry out medical treatment for such patients, medical institutions at all levels should promptly follow up the situation and report relevant information to the disease control department under their jurisdiction in a timely manner.
2019年12月31日下午，武汉市卫健委发布通报：目前已发现27例病例，其中7例病情严重,未发现明显人传人现象，未发现医务人员感染，该病可防可控。
On the afternoon of December 31, 2019, Wuhan Health Care Commission announced that 27 cases have been found, seven of which are serious, no apparent human-to-human transmission, no infection by medical personnel and controllable disease.
当天，国家卫健委委派专家组抵达武汉指导疫情处置。
On the same day, the National Health Commission appointed experts to Wuhan to guide the treatment of the epidemic.
2020年1月3日，武汉市卫建委通报确诊44例“不明显病毒性肺炎”病例，称未见明显人传人和医护感染。
On January 3, 2020, Wuhan Health Construction Commission notified the diagnosis of 44 cases of "invisible viral pneumonia," said no significant human-to-human and medical infection.
外科医生张城记得，2019年12月31日上午，他像往常一样上班，休息间隙，在网上看到李文亮在微信聊天群里发布消息的截图很吃惊，“我开始有所警惕，还提醒在武汉的亲戚（注意防护）”。
Zhang Cheng, a surgeon, remembers coming to work as usual on the morning of December 31, 2019. During the break, he was surprised to see a screenshot of Li Wenliang posting in a microphone chat group.
甲状腺乳腺外科医生刘毅也对这张带有病例的截图“有警觉”。
The thyroid surgeon Liu Yi is also "alert" to this screenshot with a case.
但随后，李文亮和艾芬分别被训诫或“谈话”，官方也发布了辟谣的消息，这让他觉得“已经辟谣了，应该不是真的”。
But then Li Wenliang and Ifen were reprimanded or "talked," respectively, and officials announced rumors, which made him think that "rumors have been denied and should not be true."
呼吸内科一位知情人士称，同事轮番被“谈话”后，几乎没有人再讨论这件事，“医院不让说。
Almost no one discussed the matter after colleagues were "talked about" in turn, a person familiar with respiratory medicine said.
武汉市也不止我们一家医院收治这类病人，都不让说。
Wuhan City is not only our hospital to treat this kind of patients, are not allowed to say.
”一切似乎又恢复了平静。
Everything seemed to be calming down again.
眼瞅着还有二十多天就过春节，刘毅和妻子给江苏老家的母亲买了补品，给堂弟的孩子买了生日礼物。
Liu Yi and his wife bought a tonic for their mother's hometown in Jiangsu and bought a birthday present for his cousin's child.
母亲一人在老家生活，身体也不好，这让刘毅心里过意不去，想回去多陪陪老人。
Mother alone in the home life, the health is also not good, this makes Liu Yi heart sorry, would like to go back to accompany the elderly.
消化内科赵琳也在筹划着，两岁的儿子被婆婆接回安徽老家，她已经两个多月没见孩子。
Digestive medicine Zhao Lin also in the planning, the two-year-old son was taken back to Anhui home, she has not seen the children for more than two months.
忙完一天的工作，赵琳盯着春节值班表，构思着春节回家的最佳计划：“初三值班，要么大年三十回老家，住上两天，初二回来，要么初三值完班就坐车走，住几天就回来。
On the third day of the Lunar New Year, she will either return to her hometown for two days, or return from the second day of junior high school, or take a bus to stay for a few days.
”武汉的街头也开始热闹起来，大红灯笼和中国结挂了起来，处处洋溢着节日的气氛。
Wuhan streets are also beginning to bustle up, big red lanterns and China hang up, everywhere brimming with the festive atmosphere.
1月18日，拥有超15万人的武汉百步亭社区第20届“万家宴”如期举行。
January 18, with more than 150,000 people in Wuhan Baibuting community, the 20th "million banquet" held as scheduled.
占据两层楼面的“职工之家”庚子鼠年春节将至，一场大疫也在悄无声息地走近。
Occupying two floors of the "staff house" Gengzi mouse Spring Festival approaching, a pandemic is also quietly approaching.
恐慌焦虑的情绪从急诊科、呼吸内科向外蔓延。
Panic anxiety spread from the emergency department and respiratory medicine.
直到1月中旬，刘毅和张城才逐渐明白了是怎么回事。
It was not until mid-January that Liu Yi and Zhang Cheng began to understand what was happening.
刘毅发现身边不断有同事因发热、乏力、咳嗽、腹泻病倒。
Liu Yi found that his colleagues are constantly suffering from fever, fatigue, cough and diarrhea.
他的科室主任江学庆于1月17日感染住院，同科室医生李微笃定“这个病毒应该会人传人，该做防护了。
Jiang Xueqing, director of his department, was hospitalized on January 17, and his doctor, Li Weiwei, said: "The virus should be passed from person to person. It needs to be protected.
”她开始网购大量N95口罩，但店家告诉她口罩被征用，无法发货。
She started buying large quantities of N95 masks online, but the store told her they had been requisitioned and could not be shipped.
张诚的科室主任也通知他们，要自行做好防护，“有条件的就自己先买口罩。
Zhang Cheng's section director also informed them to do a good job of their own protection, "the conditions on their own first buy masks.
”每到冬季，张城的过敏性鼻炎都会发作，所以他一直有戴口罩的习惯。
Every winter, Zhangcheng allergic rhinitis attacks, so he has been wearing a mask habits.
这个习惯让他躲过病毒，但同科室另外几位同事先后被确诊。
This habit allowed him to escape the virus, but several other colleagues from the same department were diagnosed.
吴敏是医院较早一批被感染新冠肺炎的医护人员之一。
Wu Min was one of the first hospital staff to be infected with New Crown Pneumonia.
除了此前接诊过的几位患者，吴敏1月8日接诊的一位30多岁的中年男子，让她印象深刻：该男子发热、全身乏力，连续输几天药后，病情更重。
She was impressed by a 30-year-old man who was admitted to Wu on January 8, in addition to several patients she had previously attended: the man was feverish, weak, and worse after losing several days of medication.
这天，国家卫健委派出第二批专家组抵达武汉；武汉市中心医院开辟出的隔离病区，已住进12位不明原因肺炎病人。
A second group of experts arrived in Wuhan on the same day, and a quarantined area at Wuhan Central Hospital housed 12 patients with unexplained pneumonia.
吴敏发现，刚接诊的这位中年患者十分焦虑，查房时，她走到哪里，患者就跟到哪里，一直跟到办公室。
Wu found that the middle-aged patient who had just been admitted was very anxious and followed her to the office wherever she went.
为了明确他的病原学，吴敏给他做了气管镜检查，当时她戴的仅是医用外科口罩。
To clarify his etiology, Wu gave him a tracheoscopy, when she was wearing only a medical surgical mask.
约五天后，该中年男子确诊为不明原因肺炎，被单独收进一个病房隔离。
About five days later, the middle-aged man was diagnosed with unexplained pneumonia and placed in a separate ward.
此间，第二批专家组专家研判认为“当前疫情仍可防可控”，武汉市卫健委1月11日也发布消息称，自1月3日以来未发现新发病例，未发现医务人员感染，未发现明确的人传人证据。
Meanwhile, a second group of experts determined that "the current epidemic situation is still preventable and controllable," Wuhan city health committee said on the 11 January said that no new cases have been found since January 3, no infection by medical personnel, no clear evidence of human-to-human transmission.
接下来的1月11日至17日，连续七天，武汉市卫健委通报不明原因肺炎患者无新增病例。
The next January 11-17, seven days in a row, Wuhan City Health Commission reported that there were no new cases of unknown pneumonia.
1月15日那天，吴敏值夜班前，发现自己有些发烧、乏力，打了针，以为很快会退烧。
January 15, Wu Min on night shift, found that a little fever, fatigue, injection, think will soon reduce the fever.
夜里，隔离病房有两位病人病情严重，需要抢救。
At night, two patients in the isolation ward were seriously ill and needed to be rescued.
赶到病房门口，吴敏急忙穿上之前同事已经穿过的防护服，进了隔离病房，没有戴头套、手套、防护鞋套和护目镜。
Arriving at the door of the ward, Wu Min quickly put on the protective clothing her former colleagues had worn and went to the isolation ward without wearing a hood, gloves, protective shoes and goggles.
抢救至深夜，吴敏和同事还是没能挽回这两名病人的生命。
Late at night, Wu Min and his colleagues were unable to save the lives of the two patients.
两位病人离世，加之自己发烧，吴敏有些沮丧。
Two patients died, plus their own fever, Wu Min a bit depressed.
但急诊科还有病人等着她会诊，“打包会诊完所有病人，已是凌晨。
But the emergency department still had patients waiting for her consultation. "It was early morning, packing and consulting all the patients.
”“我该不会被传染了吧？”凌晨1点多，吴敏才想起来让同事给自己做个CT，“当时就看到结果，肺部感染。
"Am I going to be infected?" Wu remembered at more than 1 a.m. and asked her colleague to give herself a CT scan.
”虽然此前武汉官方通报称“未发现明显人传人”，但吴敏那时还是怀疑这病会人传人。
Wu, who previously reported that "no apparent human-to-human transmission" had been found, still suspected the disease would spread from person to person.
她没有回家，睡在医院休息室，同屋里还有两名同事，她们打开窗户，戴上口罩睡觉。
She did not return home and slept in the hospital lounge with two colleagues, who opened the windows and put on masks to sleep.
吴敏在1月16日住院治疗。
Wu Min was hospitalized on 16 January.
“领导说给我单间病房，到下午又住进一个导医台的小护士。
"The leader said to give me a single room, until the afternoon to live in a small hospital table nurses.
第二天又住进一位医生。
The next day another doctor was admitted.
”她说。
'she said.
小护士才20岁出头，染了病很害怕，在病房里给家人打电话，连哭了两天。
The nurse, in her early twenties, was sick and frightened, and called her family in the ward, crying for two days.
乐观“心大”的吴敏看到她哭，一边安慰一边也跟着哭了起来。
Optimistic "big heart" Wu Min saw her cry, while consoling the side also cried.
也是在1月8日，因呼吸内科没有更多人手，消化内科医生赵琳被派往隔离病房管床。
Also on January 8, due to the lack of more staff in the Department of Respiratory Medicine, internist Zhao Lin was assigned to the isolation ward to manage the bed.
一间病房，住了12位病人。
A ward with 12 patients.
隔离衣、医用外科口罩、头套，是赵琳进入隔离病房的全部防护装备。
Isolation clothing, medical surgical mask, head cover, Zhao Lin into the isolation ward of all the protective equipment.
彼时，她不知道，病房里住着的是传染性非常强的新冠肺炎患者。
At the time, she did not know that the ward was inhabited by very infectious patients with pneumonia.
“病人病情太重，病情发展迅速，（医护人员）劳动强度太大，有时遇到需要转院的病人，夜班就完全没法休息。
"The patient is very sick, his condition is developing rapidly, he is so hard-working that he sometimes has no rest at night when he has to be transferred to a hospital.
”赵琳回忆。
"Zhao Lin recalled.
病人越来越多，且都被隔离起来，同事们常私下交流，赵琳也开始怀疑这个病会“人传人”，“但又能怎么办呢，难道要自己去买防护服吗？即便买了防护服，穿进病房，病人心理上会更恐慌。
As the number of patients grew and they were isolated, and colleagues talked to each other in private, Zhao began to suspect that the disease would "pass from person to person." But what could she do to buy protective clothing herself?
”在隔离病房支援的第八天，赵琳出现了和病人一样的症状，检查后她基本确定已被感染。
"On the eighth day of isolation, Zhao Lin developed the same symptoms as her patient, and was confirmed to be infected after tests.
1月17日下午，她住进吴敏所在的病房，和年轻护士三人成了病友。
On the afternoon of January 17, she moved into Wu's ward and became ill with three young nurses.
又过了两三天，吴敏所住的4楼和另一层楼所有病房都住满了本院的医护人员，“两层楼差不多有50多个。
Two or three days later, all the wards on the fourth and other floors occupied by Wu Min were filled with hospital staff.
”他们戏称这两层楼是“职工之家”，未曾想，疫情后来会发展的如此迅速。
They joked that the two floors were "staff homes" and did not expect the outbreak to develop so quickly afterwards.
发热门诊的昼夜情况似乎在1月20日开始变得糟糕。
Daytime and night conditions at the fever clinic seem to have started to deteriorate on January 20.
国家卫健委派出的第三批专家组由钟南山院士带队，1月18日抵达武汉；20日，钟南山接受央视采访时肯定了新冠肺炎会“人传人”；21日，国家卫健委发布公告，确认“已经出现了人传人和医务人员感染，存在一定范围的社区传播”。
The third batch of experts appointed by state health officials, led by academician Zhong Nan Shan, arrived in Wuhan on January 18. In an interview with CCTV on January 18, Zhong Nan Shan confirmed that there was "human-to-human transmission of pneumonia from person to person.
赵琳刚好那天去复查CT，她怕传染给别人，戴了口罩、围巾，把自己裹得严严实实。
Zhao Lin just that day to review CT, she is afraid to infect others, wearing a mask, scarf, wrapped himself up.
到了CT室，她发现这里已经有很多市民来排队检查肺部，“有些人没戴口罩，一边排队一边聊得欢快”。
Arriving in the CT room, she found that many citizens were already queuing up to check their lungs. "Some of them were standing in line without masks, chatting merrily."
赵琳提醒他们戴上口罩，对方却不屑：“肺炎感染不到我们。
Zhao Lin reminded them to wear masks, but the other side disdain: "Pneumonia infected us.
”发热病人在武汉1月23日凌晨宣布“封城”后开始涌向医院。
Fever patients began flocking to hospitals after the city was declared "closed" in the early hours of January 23 in Wuhan.
内科医生已应付不来，加上不断有医护人员病倒，到了1月底，刘毅和张诚等一批批外科医生也被派去支援。
Physicians have been unable to cope, and medical staff continue to fall ill, by the end of January, Liu Yi and Zhang Cheng groups of surgeons were also sent to support.
穿着厚厚的防护服不方便上厕所，刘毅早饭不敢喝稀饭。
Wearing thick protective clothing is not convenient to go to the toilet, Liu Yi breakfast dare not drink porridge.
医院把原来的普通门诊改成了发热门诊，门诊大厅有一排排供病人候诊坐的座椅，再往里走是一排“小房间”诊室，每间诊室约5平方米，“一张双人床大小”，空间狭窄、封闭，不太通风。
The hospital converted its general clinic into a fever clinic, with rows of waiting chairs in the outpatient lobby and a row of "small room" rooms of about 5 square metres in each room, "one double bed size," cramped, enclosed and poorly ventilated.
诊室内放一张桌子，一台电脑，两把椅子，一把给医生，一把给病人。
There was a table, a computer, two chairs, a doctor and a patient in the room.
刘毅每天在进入诊室前，要先在洁净区域，和同事一起互相“监督”穿好防护装备，并对着镜子照照看有没有“漏缝儿”的地方。
Liu Yi enters the consultation room every day, first in the clean area, with colleagues to "monitor" wear protective equipment, and look in the mirror to see if there are "leaky" places.
防护服分大小码，刘毅身高约一米七，每次领到的防护服还算合身。
The size of protective clothing, Liu Yi height about a meter 7, each time received the protective clothing is also a fit.
但有一次，他穿上防护服刚要走动，就撑破了个口子。
But once, just as he was about to walk around in his suit, he burst a hole.
有的同事个头近一米八，穿上防护服很束缚，走路要十分小心。
Some colleagues are nearly eight meters long, wearing protective clothing is very restrictive, walking to be very careful.
大厅的座椅上，坐满了病人，有些病人和家属只得站着、挤着。
The seats in the hall were filled with patients, some of whom had to stand and squeeze.
为减少交叉感染，工作人员一遍一遍提醒他们，可以站到大厅外面，那里空气流通。
To reduce cross-infection, workers have repeatedly reminded them to stand outside the lobby, where the air is ventilated.
“每天必须看完（病人），如果不看完就会积累更多。
"I have to finish it every day and if I don't finish it I'll accumulate more.
那时的病人来了就要排队，夜晚和白天没有区别，不分昼夜。
There was a line of patients coming, night and day, day and night alike.
”刘毅支援发热门诊的一个星期里，日接诊量经历从业以来最多，他每天会碰到本院的医护和家属来看病。
"Liu Yi, who received the most daily visits of any week to a fever clinic, met with the hospital's medical staff and family every day.
老李是医院一位女护士的父亲，他本来就有心脏病，反复咳嗽、发热、胸闷、气喘，检查发现肺部感染严重。
Lao Li, the father of a woman nurse at the hospital, was already suffering from heart disease, recurrent coughing, fever, chest tightness, and wheezing.
刘毅建议老李住院，但一直联系不到床位。
Liu Yi suggested that Lao Li be hospitalized, but he could not reach his bed.
老李只能回家隔离吃药，他的女儿一直奋战在抗疫一线。
Lao Li can only go home to isolation to take medicine, his daughter has been fighting in the battle against the epidemic.
当时医院规定，重症患者，医生能收治就收治；轻症的，即便是本院职工，也无法住院。
At that time, the hospital regulations, severe patients, doctors can be admitted to treatment; light cases, even hospital staff, can not be hospitalized.
实在病重，又没有床位的，就在留观室加床。
Really serious illness, there is no bed, just stay in the observation room to add a bed.
那段时间，刘毅很多染病的同事都自觉地回家隔离治疗，他每天埋着头看病例，看完一个接着一个.....即便是工作八个小时，也基本不知道身体的劳累。
At that time, many of Liu Yi's diseased colleagues consciously went home for treatment, burying his head and seeing one case after another every day... even if he worked eight hours, he had little knowledge of physical exertion.
下班后，刘毅走在空荡荡的武汉街头，无助无奈的情绪顿时涌来。
After work, Liu Yi walked in the empty streets of Wuhan, helpless and helpless emotions suddenly surged.
他很清楚，对于这些病人来说，他们需要一张床位，甚至是只要在医院呆着，都是莫大的安慰。
He knew it was a great comfort to these patients that they needed a bed, even if they stayed in the hospital.
“那时候，染病的医生、医生的父母，都已经住不进来了。
"At that time, the doctors, their parents, could no longer live in.
”刘毅说。
"said Liu Yi.
急诊科护士章倩告诉澎湃新闻，1月初之后，门诊的发热病人每天都会小幅度增长，到了1月18、19日，一天的发热病人能达到五六百人；1月底，后湖院区和南京路院区的发热门诊病人都达到七百多人。
After the beginning of January, the number of febrile patients in the clinic increases slightly each day. By January 18 and 19, the number of febrile patients in a day can reach 500 or 600. By the end of January, the number of fever clinics in Houhu and Nanjing Road courtyard districts had reached more than 700.
急诊科在这场“战疫”中付出了惨重代价。
The emergency department paid a heavy price for the plague.
科室主任艾芬介绍，截至3月4日5时40分，急诊科共有45名医护感染，其中本科室职工33人，来急诊科支援职工12人。
As at 5: 40 pm on March 4, there were 45 cases of medical infection in the emergency department, including 33 in the undergraduate class and 12 in the emergency department, said department director Stephen Ip.
章倩回忆，在12月底，她们就开始有意识防护，但医院防护物资不够。
At the end of December, they begin to take precautions, Zhang recalls, but the hospital's protective materials are inadequate.
“后来医院每天发的防护服牌子都不一样，没有防护鞋套，就用医用垃圾袋代替。
"The brand of protective clothing issued by the hospital every day was different. There was no protective shoe cover, so medical garbage bags were used instead.
”张城在1月底被派到隔离病房管床。
Zhang was assigned to the isolation ward at the end of January.
第一天晚上，他就送走了一位病人。
On the first night he sent off a sick man.
这位病人是三天前自己开车来住院的。
The patient came to the hospital by himself three days ago.
张城永远也无法忘记这位病人脸色苍白、呼吸衰竭去世的那一幕。
Zhang will never forget the pale face of the patient, who died of respiratory failure.
公共卫生科的情况说明武汉市中心医院一位内部人士向澎湃新闻提供了一份汇报材料，记载了2019年12月29日至2020年2月8日该院的疫情情况。
The Public Health Bureau information indicates that an insider at Wuhan Central Hospital provided a briefing to Pai Pai News, documenting the situation at the hospital from 29 December 2019 to 8 February 2020.
该院至少有两名医护人员向澎湃新闻证实了该份汇报材料的真实性。
The authenticity of the report was confirmed to the press by at least two hospital staff.
这份来自该院公共卫生科的《新型冠状病毒疫情处置情况说明》（下简称“情况说明”）记录：“2019年12月29日14时30分，公卫科接到4例华南海鲜市场聚集性病毒肺炎病例报告，工作人员立即报告江汉区疾控中心，被告知等通知。
"At 14: 30 on December 29, 2019, the public health department received a report of four cases of concentrated viral pneumonia in the South China seafood market, and the staff immediately reported the case to the CDC of Jianghan District, who informed them of the decision.
”“当日16时左右，呼吸内科报告3例相似病例；当晚20时左右，江汉区疾控中心和武汉市应急办抵达后湖院区，对7例病人进行了流行病学调查和采样，并于当晚连夜送市疾控中心采样。
"" At about 1600 hours on the same day, the Department of Respiratory Medicine reported three similar cases. At about 20 p.m., the CDC and Wuhan City Emergency Response Office of the Jianghan District arrived at Houhu courtyard.
”“2019年12月31日，公卫科工作人员电话询问江汉区疾控中心询问采样结果，被告知需等通知。
"On December 31, 2019, Sanitary staff telephoned the CDC in Jianghan to ask for sampling results and were told to wait for a notification.
2020年1月3日，公卫科工作人员致电江汉区疾控中心王姓科长，询问前期电话报告的7例病毒性肺炎，是否应该报告传染病报告卡。
On January 3, 2020, public health workers phoned the chief of the CDC Wang section of the Jianghan District to ask if the seven cases of viral pneumonia reported earlier should be reported as infectious disease report cards.
对方回复，对于此类特殊传染病，等上级通知后再上报，具体上报病种等通知。
The other party to respond to such a special infectious disease, such as higher level notification after reporting, specific reporting of diseases and other notifications.
”“1月4日，公卫科工作人员们收到了市卫健委下发的不明原因的病毒性肺炎指导手册，要求对于疑似病例，院内需12小时内组织专家会诊，会诊不能排除时应立即上报传染病报告卡。
"On January 4, the staff of the clinic received a guidebook on unspecified viral pneumonia issued by the municipal health committee, requiring that in suspected cases expert consultation be organized within 12 hours in the hospital and that the infectious disease report card be reported as soon as the consultation cannot be ruled out.
”情况说明显示，1月8日，公卫科工作人员上报了9张不明原因肺炎报告卡，1月9号上报4张。
On January 8, Sanitary staff reported nine unidentified pneumonia report cards, and on January 9 four, according to the statement.
1月9日晚，辖区疾控中心对当日上报的病例进行了流行病学调查和采样。
On the night of January 9, the jurisdictional CDC conducted an epidemiological investigation and sampling of the reported cases on the same day.
1月10号，公卫科工作人员又上报不明原因肺炎卡1张。
January 10, the public health staff also reported an unidentified pneumonia card.
“1月12日，湖北省卫健委执法监督处徐处长带队到后湖院区督导发热门诊相关工作，作出指示：传染病报告卡报告需慎重，省市联合确定后报卡。
"On January 12, Chief Xu of the Hubei Wei Health Commission Law Enforcement Supervision Bureau led the team to the Houhu courtyard to supervise the work related to the fever clinic.
”但在1月13日上午，武汉市卫健委疾控处、区卫健委疾控科等一行到南京路院区，要求不明原因肺炎病例要慎重上报，发现的病毒性肺炎病例，首先要在院内完成各项检验和相关检查，经院内专家组会诊为不明原因肺炎后，再报区卫健委会诊并通知区疾控采样，经区、市省级逐级检测，依然为不明原因肺炎后，经省卫健委同意才能进行病例信息上报。
However, on the morning of January 13, the Wuhan Health and Wellness Commission Disease Control Office and District Health Care and Prevention Department and other delegations to the Nanjing Road courtyard area, asked the hospital to carefully report cases of viral pneumonia, after the hospital expert group diagnosed as unknown pneumonia, reported to the District Health Commission and informed the district disease control sampling, through district and municipal level, still unknown pneumonia, consent by the provincial health committee can be reported.
“1月16日15时，公卫科工作人员向周边医院询问近期报卡情况，得知近期也未报卡。
"At 1500 hours on 16 January, the staff of the Public Health Section asked the neighbouring hospitals about the recent registration cards and learned that they had not been reported in the near future.
”澎湃新闻注意到，该院公卫科自1月11日起开始收到职工疑似感染病例，当天收到的三例中就有眼科医生李文亮。
Peng Pai News noted that the hospital's public health department had received suspected cases of infection from staff members since January 11, and among the three cases received that day was ophthalmologist Li Wenliang.
1月24日的记录显示，国家卫健委工作人员到后湖院区检查，公卫科工作人员如实向国家卫健委汇报医务人员感染情况：从12月底至今，累计有175名医务人员出现过发热，其中56例在院接收治疗，含危重症2例，其中确诊1例，119例正在隔离观察待排。
On 24 January, it was recorded that the staff of the State Sanitary Commission visited the Houhu courtyard and that the staff of the Sanitary Department had faithfully reported the infection of medical personnel to the State Health Commission: from the end of December to the present, 175 medical personnel had fever, of which 56 were admitted to hospital, including 2 critical cases, of which 1 was diagnosed and 119 were under quarantine.
目前，送去医务人员标本32例，等待检测结果。
At present, 32 medical specimens were sent to await the test results.
截至2月9日17时，公卫科共上报职工新冠确诊病例68例，院外门诊观察147人，住院142人，纳入医学观察医务人员共266人。
As at 1700 hours on February 9, the department had reported 68 confirmed cases of new crowns, 147 out-patient visits and 142 hospitalizations, bringing the total number of medical staff admitted for medical observation to 266.
多名该院的医护人员告诉澎湃新闻，“院外门诊观察147人”，即回家隔离治疗的医护人员。
Several hospital staff told the roar news, "out-patient observation 147 people," that is, home isolation treatment of medical personnel.
忘了自己是个病人刘毅在支援发热门诊一周后确诊。
Forgetting that he was a patient Liu Yi was diagnosed one week after supporting the fever clinic.
2月5日，他有些咳嗽，觉得自己才三十多岁，抵抗力还不错，应该没什么大问题。
On February 5, he coughed a little and felt that he was only in his thirties. His resistance was good.
第二天，刘毅早早吃了晚饭，准备回家休息三四个小时，养足精神去上夜班。
The next day, Liu Yi early dinner, ready to go home to rest for three or four hours, the spirit to go to night shift.
回到家里，刘毅脱掉厚外套、摘掉口罩，消毒后放在阳台。
Back home, Liu Yi took off his thick coat, took off his mask and put it on the balcony after disinfection.
那段时间，防护物资稀缺，口罩都是消毒后继续用。
During that time, protective equipment was scarce and masks continued to be used after disinfection.
接着，他又将自己身上的衣服脱掉全部消毒，洗30分钟以上热水澡，换上干净衣服，再把自己在家中走过的地方全部消毒一遍。
He then disinfected all his clothes, bathed himself in hot water for more than 30 minutes, changed into clean clothes and disinfected all the places he had walked through.
躺在床上，刘毅翻来覆去睡不着。
Lying on the bed, Liu Yi couldn't sleep.
“突然咳嗽，是咽炎吗？我不会感染了吧？应该不会，即使感染了，好好治疗，应该没事的，要不明天拍个片子看看”。
"Cough suddenly, is pharyngitis? I won't infect? Should not, even if the infection, good treatment, should be free, or take a movie tomorrow to see."
不觉已经到了晚上9点多。
It was past nine o'clock in the evening.
他打开微信，看到群里和朋友圈里“李文亮牺牲”的消息。
He opened the letter and saw the "martyrdom of Li Wenliang" in the group and in his circle of friends.
李文亮比刘毅还小一岁，人说没就没了，刘毅第一次感觉到了这个病毒的可怕。
Li Wenliang is still one year younger than Liu Yi. The person said no, Liu Yi felt the terrible of the virus for the first time.
“果然，中招了。
"Sure enough, he confessed.
” 第二天，刘毅查了CT，肺部有些感染，医院没有床位，判断属于轻症后，只能回家隔离治疗。
"The next day, Yi-cha Liu CT, some lung infections, the hospital no bed, judged to be a mild case, can only go home for isolation treatment.
回想自己是在哪个环节感染的，刘毅认为可能有两方面原因。
Reflecting on which link he was infected, Liu Yi thinks there may be two reasons.
一是，来看诊的发热病人基本都是确诊病人，坐在电脑前，身边常围着三四名病人，有病人一直咳嗽，在不通风的诊室里，他时常感到诊室的空气中布满病毒。
First, the febrile patients came to see the diagnosis, sitting in front of the computer, often surrounded by three or four patients, patients have been coughing, in the ventilation room, he often feel the air in the room full of viruses.
二是，那段时间，防护服很缺，也常常不达标。
Second, at that time, protective clothing is very short, and often substandard.
有些防护服是工业用品，有些达不到三级要求，有些质量太差，拉链处没有密封设置，很容易让病毒钻了空子。
Some protective clothing is industrial supplies, some do not meet class III requirements, some of poor quality, zippers do not have sealing settings, easy to let the virus drill holes.
一张床位就是病人的“保命符”。
A bed is the "talisman" of a patient.
在发热门诊看诊时，刘毅看到了太多病人求助的眼神。
At the fever clinic, Liu Yi saw too many patients looking for help.
赵琳、吴敏和同病房的小护士算是幸运的，她们都有一张床位。
Zhao Lin, Wu Min and the nurses in the same ward are lucky. They all have a bed.
在这之后，很多医护人员染了病，都无法住院。
After that, many health care workers became ill and could not be hospitalized.
3月4日晚，艾芬一直睡不着，回想这段时间抗疫经历，她每看到一个被感染职工的CT，都自责没能保护好他们。
On the night of March 4, she couldn't sleep. Looking back on her fight against the disease, she blamed herself for failing to protect an infected worker on CT.
如今，刘毅已经康复，他打算隔离结束就返岗。
Now that Liu Yi has recovered, he plans to return from isolation.
给母亲买的补品还在家中放着，虽然武汉已经恢复快递运营，但刘毅还是想等疫情结束，亲自回趟老家，看看母亲。
The tonic for her mother is still at home, although Wuhan has resumed express delivery operations, but Liu Yi would like to wait until the end of the epidemic, personally back home to see her mother.
赵琳是个热爱生活的人。
Zhao Lin is a person who loves life.
大学时代，她和同为医学生的丈夫相识、相恋、结婚。
During her college years, she met, fell in love with and married her husband, a medical student.
直到现在，赵琳依然自称是丈夫的“迷妹”。
Until now, Zhao Lin still claims to be her husband's "fan sister."
两年前，儿子的到来，给家里增添了很多欢乐。
Two years ago, the arrival of my son brought a lot of joy to my family.
但住院的头几天，对病毒的未知和恐惧，夜里阴雨寂静，赵琳悄悄写下了遗书。
But in the first few days of hospitalization, the virus unknown and fear, rainy and quiet at night, Zhao Lin quietly wrote the suicide note.
在抗疫一线的丈夫看着不断攀升的确诊数字，每天目睹隔离病房里的病人离世，他很担心妻子赵琳的病情，夜深人静时，常掩面痛哭。
Looking at the rising number of confirmed cases, his husband watched the death of his patient in the isolation ward every day. He was worried about his wife Zhao Lin's illness.
幸运的是，赵琳恢复得挺好。
Luckily, Zhao Lin has recovered well.
有一次她去复查CT，刚到负一楼，就碰见护士正在抢救一位呼吸心率骤停的患者。
One time she went to a CT scan and had just arrived on the negative first floor when she came across a nurse rescuing a patient whose heart rate had suddenly stopped.
出于医生的本能，她赶紧过去帮病人做心肺复苏，还一路把病人送到急诊抢救室。
Out of her doctor's instinct, she rushed to the patient to do cardiopulmonary resuscitation, and all the way to the emergency room.
回过头才恍然想起来，自己还是个病人，刚抢救的又是一位新冠肺炎重症患者，而赵琳当时只戴了一只口罩。
Looking back, I realized that I was still a patient and had just been rescued by a severe case of pneumonia, while Zhao Lin was wearing only one mask.
但抢救病人的那一刻，她忘了自己是个病人，只记得自己是位医生。
But the moment she saved the patient, she forgot that she was a patient and remembered that she was a doctor.
吴敏和江学庆、心外科副主任医师易凡、泌尿外科副主任医师胡卫锋都是老同事。
Wu Min and Jiang Xueqing, heart surgery deputy chief physician Yifan, urology deputy chief physician Hu Weifeng are old colleagues.
她说，江学庆在1月11日发病，1月17日住院，于3月1日不幸牺牲；胡卫锋也于1月16日出现发烧、全身乏力的症状，1月17日住院；易凡在1月18日前后出现症状，但因床位紧张，他回家隔离治疗，到了1月底病情加重，呼吸困难后才住院。
Jiang fell ill on January 11, was hospitalized on January 17 and died on March 1, she said. Hu also developed fever and general fatigue on January 16 and was hospitalized on January 17.
目前，胡卫锋和易凡病危，已经上了呼吸机和ECMO（人工肺）。
At present, Hu Weifeng and Yifan are critically ill and have been put on the ventilator and ECMO (artificial lung).
此外，医院副院长王萍也被感染，目前病情严重。
In addition, the Vice-President of the hospital Wang Ping was also infected and is now seriously ill.
李文亮于1月10出现症状，12日就住进“职工之家”，就住在吴敏的隔壁病房。
Li Wenliang appeared on January 10 symptoms, on the 12th into the "staff house", just next door to Wu Min's ward.
2月1日，李文亮确诊，确诊时就住进了ICU。
On Feb. 1, Li Wenliang was diagnosed and admitted to ICU at the time of diagnosis.
2月7日凌晨，李文亮不幸牺牲。
In the early morning of February 7, Li Wenliang died.
在李文亮住院三天后，眼科主任医师梅仲明也感染住院了。
After three days in hospital, Dr. Mei Zhongming, the chief ophthalmologist, was also hospitalized.
他在2月11日病重，进行气管插管仍无法挽回，在3月3日与世长辞。
He was seriously ill on 11 February and died on 3 March, unable to recover from a trachea intubation.
截至3月9日，武汉市中心医院先后痛别了李文亮、梅仲明、江学庆、朱和平四位优秀的医生。
As of March 9, Wuhan Central Hospital has bade farewell to four outstanding doctors: Li Wenliang, Meizhong Ming, Jiang Xueqing and Zhu Heping.
多名医护人员均告诉澎湃新闻，该院已累计有两百多医护人员感染。
A number of medical personnel told the roar news, the hospital has accumulated more than 200 health-care workers infected.
送走一位又一位“好兄弟”“老大哥”，医院疼痛科主任蔡毅十分感慨、发文悼念称，“在这次和大疫的斗争中，中心医院伤亡惨重、遍体鳞伤。
Take away one "good brother" "Big Brother," said Cai Yi, director of the hospital's pain department, lamented and mourned, "The central hospital suffered heavy casualties and bruises in the battle against the pandemic.
”2月14日，国家卫生健康委副主任曾益新在新闻发布会上透露，截至2月11日24时，全国共报告医务人员确诊感染1716名，其中有6人不幸辞世。
On February 14, Zeng Yixin, deputy director of the National Health Council, told a news conference that, as of 2400 hours on February 11, 1,716 cases had been reported nationwide and six of them had died.
湖北省报告了1502例医务人员确诊病例，武汉市报告了1102例医务人员确诊病例，占湖北省医务人员确诊病例的73.4%。
In Hubei Province, 1502 confirmed cases were reported by medical personnel, and in Wuhan, 1,102 cases were confirmed by medical personnel, accounting for 73.4 per cent of confirmed cases by medical personnel in Hubei Province.
3月6日，国务院新闻办公室在武汉举行新闻发布会上，湖北省医护人员感染的数字已翻倍。
On March 6, 2007, the State Council Information Office held a press conference in Wuhan, and the number of medical workers infected in Hubei Province doubled.
中央指导组成员、国务院副秘书长丁向阳介绍，在这次疫情发生的早期，主要是今年1月份及之前，仅湖北省就有超3000名医护人员被感染，其中40%是在医院感染的，60%在社区，均为湖北当地的医务人员，而且大多是非传染科的医生。
In the early days of the epidemic, mainly in January and before this year, more than 3,000 medical personnel were infected in Hubei Province alone, 40 percent of them in hospitals and 60 percent in the community.
（应受访者要求，文中刘毅、章倩、吴敏、李微、张城、赵琳、老李均为化名）（实习生孟津津、夏梦洁、刘旭、李娴、胡友美、张浩容、李宁馨亦对本文有贡献）戳这里进入“全国新型冠状病毒感染病例实时地图”↓↓↓本期编辑 常琛推荐阅读。
(At the request of interviewees, Liu Yi, Zhang Qian, Wu Min, Li Wei, Zhang Cheng, Zhao Lin, Lao Li are aliases) (Intern Meng Jin-jin, Xia Mengjie, Liu Xu, Li Xian, Hu Youmei, Zhang Haorong, Li Ning Xin also contributed to this article)
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一家 “遍体鳞伤”的武汉三甲医院。
A "black and blue" Wuhan Sanjia Hospital.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "一家 “遍体鳞伤”的武汉三甲医院";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "一家 “遍体鳞伤”的武汉三甲医院";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '起底韩国新天地教会：疫情“帮凶”',。
South Korea's Xintiandi Church: AT & T & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; &
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '团聚了，但句号没有划上',。
Rendezvous with AT & apos; but not with & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '“湖北疫情依旧严峻，坚决不能放松”',。
"Hubei still has a serious epidemic and resolutely not to relax" & amp; apos; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
