百货大楼疫情“迷局”破了，天津宝坻又迎来新的任务。
Tianjin Baodi has welcomed a new assignment as the department store's epidemic situation has been updated.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻记者 林牧之3月8日，还是零新增确诊病例！天津疾控人员又松了一口气从2月28日到3月8日，天津已经连续10天零新增新冠肺炎确诊病例。
Tianjin officials are relieved to report 10 days of newly confirmed cases of pneumonia in Tianjin from Feb. 28 to March 8, 2008.
截至3月8日，天津累计确诊136例，已经有129名患者治愈出院，还在医院治疗的确诊患者仅剩4人。
As of March 8, a total of 136 cases have been diagnosed in Tianjin, 129 patients have been cured and discharged, and only 4 patients have been diagnosed and treated in hospitals.
在这136例确诊病例中，几乎一半来自宝坻区。
Of these 136 confirmed cases, almost half came from the Po Zen district.
宝坻区累计确诊有60人，其中56人已治愈出院。
A total of 60 people have been diagnosed in Baoji district.
疫情危机似乎在逐步解除，而小区门口还没撕掉的防控通知，记录了宝坻区居民度过的惊心动魄一个月。
The disease crisis seems to be gradually unraveling, and the prevention and control notices that have yet to be torn out on the doorstep of the district record the breathtaking month spent by residents.
谈起新冠肺炎，人们仍心有余悸，一个月过去了，大家仍然记得那句掷地有声的话，“不让宝坻的百货大楼变成武汉的海鲜市场”。
A month later, people still remember the famous phrase "let Baodi's department store not be turned into a seafood market in Wuhan."
这句话来自宝坻区人民政府区长毛劲松。
This sentence from Baoji District Chief Executive Mao Jingsong.
2月9日，他说宝坻区的目标就是尽可能“静下来”。
On February 9, he said the goal of the Po Zang district was to "calm down" as much as possible.
当时，武汉华南海鲜市场出现的新冠肺炎病例，引发了湖北的疫情爆发。
At that time, Wuhan South China seafood market appeared the new crown pneumonia case, caused the Hubei outbreak.
距离武汉1千多公里外，一场潜伏的危机也在暗处偷袭天津。
Wuhan from more than 1,000 kilometers away, a latent crisis in the dark also hit Tianjin.
天津的市民怎么也没想到，2020年春节前的喜庆采购，会引发这座城市一场空前的防疫战，牵涉到上万人隔离，6.6万人接受排查。
People in Tianjin never expected that the festive shopping before the 2020 Spring Festival would set off an unprecedented epidemic prevention campaign in the city, involving tens of thousands of people isolated and 66,000 screened.
而这一切还要从宝坻区那栋百货大楼说起。
And it all started with the department store in the Po Zen district.
拉响第一声警报如果不是这一次疫情，宝坻区的百货商厦估计会从春节前一直热闹到元宵节。
Pulling the First Alarm If this isn't the case, the department store in Po Chao district is expected to be busy from the Spring Festival to the Lantern Festival.
这座外墙红黄装潢的购物大楼，位于繁华的商业街，4000平方米营业面积，是宝坻人的购物打卡地。
The red-and-yellow shopping complex, located on a busy commercial street, features 4,000 square meters of business space and is designed to let Baodi residents shop in Baodi.
早在春节前，大楼就拉好了各种年货促销的横幅。
As early as the Spring Festival, the building drew up various promotional banners for the New Year.
这里因为衣服样式多，价格便宜，周边村镇的居民也相约赶来。
Here because of the clothing style, cheap prices, the surrounding villages and towns also came.
1月初，大家对于“新型冠状病毒肺炎”的字眼还比较陌生。
At the beginning of January, people were still unfamiliar with the term "new coronavirus pneumonia."
这个词首次大范围出现在全国视野，要倒推到1月20日，这一天国家卫健委高级别专家组明确表示，目前已证实新型冠状病毒肺炎有“人传人”现象。
The term has been widely used for the first time in the country, back to January 20, when a high-level panel of experts from the National Health Commission made it clear that the new coronavirus pneumonia has been confirmed to have a "person-to-person" phenomenon.
四天后，1月24日，天津启动重大突发公共卫生事件一级响应。
Four days later, on January 24, Tianjin launched a first-level response to a major public health emergency.
次日，也就是正月初一，宝坻百货大楼停业了。
The next day, Baodi islet closed its doors.
当时宝坻百货大楼及其周边还算风平浪静。
Baodi's department store and its surroundings were quiet.
可是谁也没想到，不到七天的时间，一则消息掀起了波澜。
But no one thought that in less than seven days, a news set off waves.
“我们这里有一例发烧病人，她没有武汉和湖北的接触史。
"We have a case of a fever here and she has no history of contact with Wuhan and Hubei.
但经过初步检查，症状很像新冠肺炎。
But after a preliminary examination, the symptoms look very much like new crown pneumonia.
”1月31日中午，宝坻区疾控中心传染病控制科科长郝肖阳接到了宝坻人民医院发热门诊的电话。
At noon on January 31, Hao Xiao Yang, chief of the infectious-disease control section of the Po Toi District CDC, received a call from Baodi People's Hospital.
四个小时后，郝肖阳和同事拿到了这位病人的初诊结果——确诊新冠肺炎。
Four hours later, Hao and his colleagues obtained the patient's first diagnosis, New Crown Pneumonia.
检测标本随即被送往天津市疾控中心，等待最后的检测确定。
The specimens were then sent to Tianjin CDC for final testing.
当了解到这位病人是宝坻区百货商场的一名销售人员时，郝肖阳心头一紧：从第一例病例感染，到百货大楼闭市，这其间有多少人擦肩而过？他们身在何处？病毒的扩散正在看不见的“暗处”，进攻人体的防线。
Knowing that the patient was a salesperson in a department store in the district of Po Chao Yang was worried: How many people passed by between the first case of infection and the closure of department stores? Where were they? The spread of the virus was attacking the body's defenses in an invisible "dark spot."
防疫与病毒赛跑，抢时间就是抢救生命！宝坻区疾控人员通过掌握该患者在发病前14天的行动轨迹，以及发病后精确到每小时的出行时间轴，迅速展开排查。
The disease prevention and virus race, fight time is to save lives! The disease control personnel in Baoji District through grasping the patient's 14 days before the onset of disease, and accurate to the travel time axis every hour after the onset of disease.
患者的家是第一个目的地。
The patient's home is the first destination.
果不其然，患者的丈夫也确诊了，被送往海河医院救治。
Sure enough, the patient's husband was also diagnosed and sent to Haihe Hospital for treatment.
而更紧急的是，如何寻找新冠肺炎患者的密切接触者，如何安置他们防止二次三次感染？不得不提的是，宝坻区位于天津、北京、唐山三座城市的几何中心，这里一旦爆发疫情，也将危及到京津冀的疫情防线。
More urgently, how to find close contacts of patients with new crown pneumonia, how to place them to prevent secondary triple infections? It has to be mentioned that Baocheng District is located in Tianjin, Beijing, Tangshan, the geometric center of three cities, where an outbreak of the outbreak would also endanger the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei defense line.
警报拉响！宝坻区出现首例确诊病例后，官方次日对外发布一份紧急通告：1月20日至25日曾在宝坻百货大楼工作的售货员和购物的群众需自动居家隔离观察，不要外出走动。
An emergency notice was issued the next day after the first confirmed case in Po Toi district: salespeople and shoppers who had worked in Baodi's department store from January 20 to 25 were asked to stay in their homes and not walk around.
隐匿的危险传播链在接下来的几天，宝坻区人民医院接连确诊新冠肺炎患者。
Hidden Dangerous Propagation Chain In the next few days, people's hospital in Po Chao District confirmed a succession of patients with new crown pneumonia.
疫情流行初期，很多患者都是直接或间接跟武汉和湖北有关。
At the beginning of the epidemic, many patients were directly or indirectly related to Wuhan and Hubei.
而宝坻区的确诊患者近期几乎没有武汉旅行史或接触过武汉的发热人员。
The confirmed patient in Baoji district has no Wuhan travel history or contact with the fever personnel in Wuhan recently.
这又是怎么传播开来的？谁是头号传播者？随着天津疾控中心专家对患者的资料掌握得越来越详细，真相慢慢浮出水面。
And how did this spread? Who was the number one communicator? As experts at Tianjin CDC got more detailed information about patients, the truth began to emerge.
疾控专家对宝坻区百货大楼前5例确诊病例的先后发病情况进行层层分析，找到了蛛丝马迹：有一名患者早在1月21日就发病了，在发病前的1月12日-13日，她曾先后两次到天津附近的某市鞋类批发市场进货。
The disease control experts analyzed the first 5 cases of department store in Baoquan district and found some clues: One patient had been ill as early as January 21, and on January 12-13 before the onset of illness, she went to a shoe wholesale market near Tianjin twice.
专家随后从全国的疫情报告里搜索发现，该市有新冠肺炎病例，也有本地传播的情况。
Experts then searched the national epidemic report for new cases of pneumonia in the city, as well as local transmission.
他们判断，有可能这名患者是在该市进货的过程中被感染，之后回到天津发病的。
They determined that it was possible that the patient had been infected while receiving supplies from the city and had returned to Tianjin.
传染源找到了！2月2日，天津市疾控中心传染病预防控制室主任张颖在新闻发布会上解释，宝坻区百货大楼的疫情源头是一名销售员在外地感染，回到天津后发病，传染了另两名售货员和一名顾客，其中一名售货员又传染了家属，造成了聚集性传播。
Zhang Ying, director of the infectious disease prevention and control room at Tianjin CDC, explained at a news conference on Feb. 2 that the source of the outbreak in Po Chao district was an infection by a salesman who returned to Tianjin and caught two other salespeople and a customer, one of whom infected the family, causing sexual transmission.
接下来，让疾控专家担心的事情还是发生了，病例在不断增多。
The next thing that worries disease experts is that cases are on the rise.
这些患者或是宝坻区百货大楼的销售员、或曾到过百货大楼购物的顾客，亦或是与患者密切接触的家属。
These patients are either salespeople in department stores in the Po Zen district, customers who have visited department stores, or close family members who are in close contact with patients.
2月7日，宝坻区防控指挥部总指挥、区长毛劲松介绍，宝坻区已发病23名人员主要集聚在百货大楼这一个点，已对商场194名销售人员和9200名顾客采取相应的隔离措施。
On February 7, Mao Jinsong, commander-in-chief and district chief of the Po Zou district control headquarters, said 23 people in Po Chao district had gathered at the department store, where 194 salespeople and 9,200 customers had been isolated.
不久后，天津宝坻区林亭口镇又出现了11人被感染的“迷局”。
Soon after, Lin Tingkou, a town in Tianjin's Po Zen district, had 11 people infected with the "mystery."
这11人分布在林亭口一村、三村和五村一共3个村，而且都没有明显的百货大楼接触史。
These 11 people are distributed in Lin Tingkou one village, three villages and five villages altogether, and there is no obvious department store contact history.
病毒又是从哪来的？天津市疾控中心专家抽丝剥茧，最后揭开谜团——三顿饭一桌牌。
Where did the virus come from? Tianjin CDC experts pull the cocoon, finally opened the mystery - three meals a table.
原来，这11人中有10人是一家人。
It turned out that 10 of the 11 were from the same family.
一位患者在初二、初三、初六跟家人聚餐吃饭，又去表姨夫家串门打了几把牌，以为没什么事，没想到发生了交叉感染，正是这样的侥幸心理传染了全家人。
One patient had dinner with his family on the second, third and sixth days of junior high school. He went to his uncle's house and played a few cards, thinking nothing was wrong.
但这一大家子近期没有人去过宝坻百货大楼，让他们受到牵连的还另有其人。
But no one has visited Baodi's department store lately, and someone else has been implicated.
一位女病患，有百货大楼购物史，但核酸检测是阴性，而她的丈夫检测是阳性。
A female patient, with a history of shopping in department stores, tested negative for nucleic acid and her husband tested positive.
因此天津市疾控中心专家反证该女士就是病例，可能检测出现了“假阴性”的问题。
Therefore, Tianjin CDC experts back to prove that the woman is a case, the possible detection of a "false negative" problem.
“林亭口大家族感染迷局”最终水落石出，这对病患夫妇就是10口人的大家族与宝坻百货大楼的传染桥梁。
The "Lin Tingkou Family Infection Mystery" finally came to light, and the couple is a contagious bridge between the 10-member family and Baodi's department store.
由于出色的专业能力和准确的判断力，天津市疾控中心传染病预防控制室主任张颖被网友称为“天津福尔摩斯”。
Because of her outstanding professional ability and accurate judgment, Zhang Ying, director of infectious disease prevention and control room of Tianjin CDC, was called "Tianjin Holmes" by netizens.
全区“紧急寻人”传染点“宝坻区百货大楼”确定，针对性的防控措施也在紧锣密鼓地铺开。
"Emergency Search" infection point throughout the region "Po Zen District Department Store" identified, targeted prevention and control measures are also in full swing.
疫情发生后，宝坻区对百货大楼进行封控消毒，对周边实施戒严管控。
After the outbreak of the disease, Po Chao district to the department store sealed disinfection, around the implementation of martial law control.
百货大楼所在的城关东街，数百家店铺均关闭。
East Shengguan Street, where the department store is located, hundreds of shops are closed.
此外，进出宝坻的人员需出示身份证，与百货大楼疫情相关的人员一律不得离开宝坻。
In addition, personnel entering or leaving Baodi must show their identity cards and no one connected with the department store should leave Baodi.
“还在睡觉，大喇叭忽然一下响起来了，吓我一跳。
"" While I was sleeping, the big horn blared suddenly and startled me.
告诉我们疫情严重，不让出门了。
Tell us the epidemic is so serious that we can't go out.
”宝坻辛务屯村村民王健（化名）说。
"Baodi islet village villager Wang Jian (not his real name).
2月1日一大早，宝坻区各街镇、村居和社区的大小喇叭轰然响起，不限次巡回播报，电视、广播、宣传车、融媒体滚动消息不断，它们都在“紧急寻人”—— 与百货大楼疫情相关者。
Early in the morning of February 1, loudspeakers blared across the streets, villages, and communities in the city of Po-chuen. There were endless roving television, radio, publicity cars, and rolling news from the financial media, all of which were "in urgent search of someone" - related to the department store.
当时，在百货大楼超市工作的王丽（化名），正在家里玩手机，一条宝坻区出现确诊病例的消息，让她心里咯噔了一下。
Wang Li (not her real name), who worked in a department store at the time, was playing with her cell phone at home, when news of a confirmed case in a Po Zen area stuck up her mind.
“我和被确诊人员不在一个区域内工作，但是，谁知道呢？离得也没那么远。
"I don't work in the same area as the people diagnosed, but who knows? Not so far away.
”很快，王丽接到了街道工作人员和区卫健委的电话。
Soon, Wang received calls from street workers and district health officials.
“电话里通知我，需要对我进行隔离观察，希望我配合。
"I was told by telephone that I needed to be quarantined and wanted me to cooperate.
”2月3日，王丽拿了一些换洗衣服，家人开车送她到位于宝坻开发区的某医学观察所。
On February 3, Ms. Wang took some laundry and her family drove her to a medical observatory in Baodi District.
“感觉很魔幻，穿着全套防护服的工作人员对我进行消毒，让我想起电影《生化危机》里的场景。
"It felt magical, disinfecting me in full protective gear and reminding me of the scenes from the film" The Crisis of Life. "
”王丽被带进了6层一间有将近30平方米的房间，房间有一股浓郁的酒精味道，桌子上放着口罩、体温计以及一张印着注意事项和医生联系方式的A4纸。
Ms. Wang was taken to a room on the sixth floor, nearly 30 square meters, with a strong smell of alcohol, a mask on the table, a thermometer and an A4 sheet of paper bearing a note and doctor's contact details.
截至2月7日，宝坻区已有194名百货大楼销售人员集中隔离；主动报告的去过百货大楼的9200多名顾客，均采取居家隔离措施，多名发热人员被送往发热门诊检查治疗。
As of February 7, 194 department store salespeople were clustered together in the Po Zen district. More than 9,200 unsolicited shoppers who had visited department stores were isolated at home and a number of fever cases were taken to the fever clinic for treatment.
“这个数字是动态的，未来可能在不断增加当中。
"This number is dynamic and is likely to increase in the future.
”2月7日，在天津新冠肺炎防控工作新闻发布会上，宝坻区长毛劲松表示，目前该区启动了工作组的形式实行针对性监督防控。
At a press conference on Feb. 7 in Tianjin's Xinguan Pneumonia prevention and control work, Chief Mao Jinsong said the district has launched a working group to carry out targeted surveillance prevention and control.
具体来说，宝坻区各个相关街镇成立了多个工作组，每个小组由公安、街镇、社区、卫生院4位工作人员组成，他们负责监督一个社区或者一条村子重点人员的居家隔离情况。
In particular, working groups have been set up in each of the relevant street towns in Baoji district, each composed of four staff members from public security, street towns, communities and health centres, who supervise the segregation of key persons in a community or a village.
而针对出现确诊病例的村子和小区，工作人员采取全封闭管控，仅保留一个出口。
In villages and small areas where confirmed cases have been reported, staff members have been kept completely closed and only one exit has been retained.
“这种封闭的标准跟武汉市目前一样。
"The closed standards are the same as in Wuhan.
”2月7日，毛劲松称，出现确诊病例的地方要求所有人员不许进、不许出，完全实行静态封闭。
On February 7, Mao Jinsong said the places where confirmed cases had been found required all personnel not to enter, not to leave, and to close completely.
所有物资由政府统一调配供应，跟集中隔离的规范一样。
All supplies are supplied centrally by the Government, as is the standard for centralized segregation.
2月9日，宝坻防控再升级，以“三道防线”切断病毒传播途径。
February 9, Baodi prevention and control escalation to "three lines of defense" to cut off the virus transmission route.
第一道是社区和村庄提高封闭标准。
The first is the raising of closure standards in communities and villages.
第二道防线是城区通往农村地区的主要路口都实施了双向交通管控。
The second line of defense is two-way traffic control at the city's main road to rural areas.
第三道防线是宝坻区通向外界24个主路口、高速公路、国省道和36条乡村道路，均采取了不同等级的管控措施。
The third line of defense is Baoji district to the outside world 24 main junction, expressway, national provincial roads and 36 village roads, all adopted different levels of control measures.
“构筑好第二道、第三道防线，让全区‘静’下来，切断传播途径，起到筑牢北京护城河的作用。
"Construct the second and third line of defense, let the whole area 'quiet' down, cut off the way of transmission, play a role in the construction of Beijing moat.
”宝坻区交通局副局长王学说道。
Baoji District Transport Bureau deputy director Wang Xuehe said.
地毯式排查：24小时超6.6万人14200人！截至2月11日凌晨，宝坻区百货大楼已经引发上万人居家隔离。
Carpet Checking: More than 66,200 people in 24 hours! By the early hours of Feb. 11, the department store in Po Chao district had caused tens of thousands of people to be isolated.
然而，坏消息还在传来，与“宝坻百货大楼”相关联的确诊病例仍在攀升。
The bad news is still coming, however, with confirmed cases linked to Baodi's department store still rising.
2月10日，天津市报告新冠肺炎新增确诊病例4例，其中宝坻区3例。
On February 10, Tianjin reported 4 new confirmed cases of new crown pneumonia, 3 of which were in Po Zheng district.
彼时，宝坻区成为了天津确诊病例最多、影响范围最广的聚集性疫情发生地，这已经事关天津疫情防控的大局。
At that time, Po Chao District has become the most confirmed cases and the most widespread impact of the concentrated epidemic in Tianjin, which has a major impact on the prevention and control of the disease.
这些确诊病例中农村居住占15例，新增的几例大多都来自农村地区。
Rural settlements accounted for 15 of these confirmed cases, with most of the new cases coming from rural areas.
这让宝坻区疫情防控工作指挥部警觉：病毒传染的途径还没完全切断，任何一个“漏网之鱼”都可能成为病毒传播的隐患。
This alerted the Baoquan District Command of Disease Control and Prevention: the virus transmission route has not been completely cut off, any "leaking fish" could become a hidden danger of virus transmission.
“确诊病例中，有一位患者在家‘忍’了九天，直到症状严重了才去发热门诊，一下子就确诊了。
"In one of the confirmed cases, the patient stayed at home for nine days until the symptoms became severe before going to the fever clinic and the diagnosis was immediate.
所以千万别大意，宅在家里的一万多人也有风险。
So do not be careless, the home of more than 10, 000 people are also at risk.
”宝坻区区长毛劲松说。
"said Mao Jinsong, mayor of Po Chao district.
2月11日下午，宝坻区召开新冠肺炎疫情防控会议，又宣布了一项重大决定：未来24小时要逐一对隔离的一万多人进行排查！当天晚上18点，一场阻击新冠肺炎疫情的闪电战开始了——寻找隐形的“密切接触者”。
In the afternoon of Feb. 11, a major decision was made to screen more than 10, 000 people in isolation in the afternoon of February 11, 2008: At 18: 00 pm, a blitzkrieg to stop the outbreak of Newcrown Pneumonia began - looking for invisible "close contacts."
宝坻集中全区近3000名工作人员，成立917个工作组，每三人为一组，由区直机关负责人带队，每组配备一名医护人员、一名社区或村委会工作人员，上门面对面摸排百货大楼相关人员的身体状况，真正摸清底数。
Baodi area has nearly 3,000 staff members and 917 working groups, each in groups of three, led by the head of the district union body, each staffed by a medical worker, a community or village committee member, who has come face to face to map the physical condition of the department store's staff.
“我们一定要拿回最真实的数字！”宝坻区区委书记殷向杰叮嘱，上门排查有风险，大家一定要注意防护，但街镇缺多少人尽快上报，区委组织部已经收到700多名党员干部报名，随时充实一线。
"We must get the real figures back!" Yin Xiangjie, Secretary of the District Committee of Po Chao District, told Yin Xiangjie that door-to-door inspection is risky, we must pay attention to the protection, but how many people want to report street town as soon as possible, the district committee organization department has received more than 700 party cadres registration, ready to enrich.
北方的2月，夜晚室外温度徘徊在零度左右，最低跌至零下3度。
In the north, outdoor temperatures hover around zero in February, dropping as low as minus three degrees below zero.
宝坻区的排查小组戴好口罩和护目镜，夜晚光线不好，护目镜里都是哈气，看什么都是雾蒙蒙的，稍有不注意，就会脚滑打了个趔趄。
The Purple District Search Team wore masks and goggles. The night light was bad and the goggles were full of steam. Everything was foggy.
“24小时”的时间线摆在前面，小区排查耗时耗力，在与疫情赛跑的过程中，既要快更要耐心。
The "24-hour" timeline is ahead, and cell screening is time-consuming and requires both speed and patience in the race against the epidemic.
然而，工作人员遇到的难题还远不止这些。
However, the challenges faced by staff go far beyond these.
“你别上我家来，你把病毒带到我家怎么办？我刚隔离期满，然后你就把我传染了怎么办？”家住在丽苑社区的李先生把工作人员拦在了门外。
"What do you do if you don't come to my house and bring the virus to my house? I just finished quarantine and then you infect me?" Mr. Li, who lives in the community of Liyuan, stopped the staff.
经过反复劝说，李先生最后才同意接受上门排查。
After much persuasion, Mr. Li finally agreed to accept the door-to-door inspection.
2月12日凌晨1点，宝坻海滨街道办事处依然是灯火通明，4名工作人员在电脑前不停翻阅核查，对排查清单进行梳理。
On February 12, Baodi street office was still lit with four staff members checking their computer to check their inventory.
海滨街道办事处副主任褚月宗介绍，如果在排查过程中，发现发热、干咳等症状人员，立即报告指挥部，由医疗救治组派车，到定点发热门诊就诊。
The Deputy Director of the Waterfront Street Office, Chu Yuezong, said that if during the screening process, people with fever, dry cough and other symptoms were found, they should immediately report to the command headquarters.
如果有不配合情况，报到突发事件处置组及时处置。
If there is non-cooperation, report to the emergency response team timely disposal.
经过连夜开展走访，宝坻区近3000名工作人员用不到24小时的时间排查出涉百货大楼疫情相关人员及其密切接触者6.6万余人，新发现的发热人员被送往宝坻区人民医院鉴诊筛查。
After a series of overnight visits, nearly 3,000 workers in the Po Zen district spent less than 24 hours checking out more than 66,000 people involved in the department store outbreak and their close contacts. The newly found fevers were sent to Baojen District People's Hospital for screening.
这场几乎全区出动的“大筛查”，让病毒无处藏身，最大限度切断了潜在的传染路径，让疾控人员和居民心里悬着的石头落了下来。
The almost region-wide "big screening" left the virus nowhere to hide, cutting off potential transmission routes and letting loose the rocks hanging in the hearts of disease controllers and residents.
防控疫情，宝坻区还有一招——从“万人大筛查”到“万人大回访”。
Prevention and control of the epidemic, Po Chao District from "10,000 people screening" to "10,000 people back to visit."
2月底，宝坻区开展了“万人大回访”行动，再次聚焦前期筛查锁定的涉宝坻百货大楼人员及其密切接触者、因身体不适在药店购买退烧、止咳、消炎药物等四类人员，精准防控，把排除疑点的人员“解放”出来。
At the end of February, Baoji district launched a "10,000 people's congress return visit" campaign, focusing once again on its personnel and its close contacts who had been targeted by early-stage screenings, and its four categories of people buying fever-reducing, cough-relieving and anti-inflammatory drugs in pharmacies because of ill-health.
最终，多套“组合拳”之下，疫情传播停了。
Eventually, the epidemic spread to a halt under several sets of combined fists.
2月28日，天津实现零新增确诊，接下来的10天连续保持零新增。
February 28, Tianjin to achieve zero new diagnosis, the next 10 days to maintain a continuous increase in zero.
宝坻的百货大楼没有变成第二个“武汉海鲜市场”。
Baodi's department store has not become the second Wuhan seafood market.
如今，宝坻区迎来了新的任务——复工复产。
Now, Baoji District ushered in a new task - to resume work.
三月份，阳春时节天气和，万物芳盛，这里正在恢复如初。
March, the sunny spring weather, everything beautiful, here is recovering as before.
（部分资料综合自津云新闻、央视新闻、新华网）本期编辑 常琛推荐阅读。
(Part of the information from Tianjin-yun news, CCTV news, Xinhua website) this issue of the editor Changchen recommended reading.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
百货大楼疫情“迷局”破了，天津宝坻又迎来新的任务。
Tianjin Baodi has welcomed a new assignment as the department store's epidemic situation has been updated.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "百货大楼疫情“迷局”破了，天津宝坻又迎来新的任务";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; department store & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;.
var msg_desc = "从确诊1例到排查万人";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; from 1 case diagnosed to AT & quot;;
title: '起底韩国新天地教会：疫情“帮凶”',。
South Korea's Xintiandi Church: AT & T & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; &
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '团聚了，但句号没有划上',。
Rendezvous with AT & apos; but not with & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '“湖北疫情依旧严峻，坚决不能放松”',。
"Hubei still has a serious epidemic and resolutely not to relax" & amp; apos; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
