四位青岛市民眼中的韩国。
South Korea in the eyes of four Qingdao citizens.
朱若淼。
Zhu Rao Miao.
城市OurCity                      。
City of OurCity.
城市OurCity。
City of OurCity.
关心每一位普通中国人的生活革命。
To care about the life revolution of every ordinary Chinese.
。
.
本世纪初，随着中国越来越融入全球经济体系，青岛与韩国之间的关系也发生着微妙的互动。
Relations between Qingdao and South Korea began to interact delicately in the early 2000s as China became more integrated into the global economic system.
其中交织着2008年的金融危机和奥帆赛，2017年萨德事件导致中韩关系一度恶化，两国经济实力的此消彼长，这些都在岛城的生活中留下了痕迹。
The combination of the 2008 financial crisis and the Olympic Games, the once-deteriorating Sino-South Korean relationship in 2017, and the growing economic power of the two countries have left their mark on island life.
作者｜朱若淼设计 | 范晓雯武汉封城一个多月后，国内与海外交往密切的大小城市再次紧张起来。
More than a month after its inception, the city, large and small, with which it interacts closely, is once again tense.
青岛是最早一批拉响警报的城市之一。
Qingdao was one of the first cities to sound the alarm.
二月底，城里流传起了韩国人因疫情爆发纷纷逃往青岛的传言，紧接着政府也出台政策“严控境外输入”。
At the end of February, rumors spread in the city that South Koreans had fled the outbreak to Qingdao, followed by a government policy of "strict control of foreign imports."
尽管事实并非传言的那样严重，但“害怕病毒从韩国输入”成为了青岛人的普遍担忧。
Although the truth is not as serious as rumored, "fear of virus imports from South Korea" has become a common concern among Qingdao people.
这背后是中国融入全球化之后必然要承担的风险，同时也反映出青岛与韩国之间越来越不分彼此的紧密联系。
This is behind China's integration into globalization after the inevitable risks, but also reflects Qingdao and South Korea increasingly close ties between each other.
由于地缘接近，青岛在1992年中韩建交之前就启动了与韩国之间的经济往来。
Qingdao began its economic ties with South Korea before establishing diplomatic ties with South Korea in 1992 because of its proximity.
1989年，韩国人投资的第一家电器厂在城阳区落地。
In 1989, the first electric factory invested by Koreans landed in the city.
这个位于青岛市西北部的行政区也成为韩国人最多的地方。
The borough of northwestern Qingdao is also home to the largest number of South Koreans.
九十年代中后期，大量开始韩商在青岛投资建厂开店，韩国元素源源不断地融入青岛。
In the mid-late 1990s, a large number of Korean businessmen in Qingdao to invest in the establishment of shops, South Korean elements into Qingdao.
在城阳区之外，崂山、李沧、市南区也成为了韩国人喜欢来居住的区域。
Outside the city's Yangyang district, Laoshan, Licang, and South District have also become a favorite residential areas for Koreans.
到2008年，在这里的韩国人数量达到峰值，超过10万人，占当时青岛市区常住人口的5%。
By 2008, the number of Koreans here had peaked at more than 100,000, or 5 per cent of the resident population of Qingdao at the time.
在青岛，人们早已对这个隔黄海相望的国家习以为常。
Qingdao has long been used to this country across the Yellow Sea.
本世纪初，随着中国越来越融入全球经济体系，青岛与韩国之间的关系也发生着微妙的互动。
Relations between Qingdao and South Korea began to interact delicately in the early 2000s as China became more integrated into the global economic system.
其中交织着2008年奥帆赛中青岛的繁荣和金融危机中韩商的衰落，双方关系在之后逐渐走向情感和外交的顶点，又从2016年开始，因萨德事件逐步导致中韩关系在恶化中触底。
After a combination of the boom in Qingdao in the 2008 Olympic Games and the decline of Korean businesses during the financial crisis, relations between the two sides gradually reached the emotional and diplomatic apex, and from 2016 onwards, as the events in the Sad gradually led to a bottom in the deterioration of China-South Korea relations.
过去三十年中，两国经济实力的此消彼长，情感关系远远近近，这些都在这座岛城人民的生活中留下了痕迹。
Over the past three decades, the rising and falling economic power of the two countries, as well as their emotional ties far and near, have left their mark on the lives of the people of this island city.
我们和四位青岛人聊了聊他们生活中与韩国的交流往事，他们来自不同的行业，不同年龄。
We talked to four Qingdao people about their life with South Korea, they come from different industries, different ages.
在他们个人的生活故事里，我们读到这段交往史中正在发生的微妙变化。
In their personal life stories, we read about the subtle changes that are taking place in the history of communication.
以下是他们中4人的口述：OurCity赵成国：54岁，大学教授1993年，中韩建交第二年，我第一次去的韩国，当时我还在河北工作，河北省的经济代表团要去韩国做一个展览会，需要翻译，我就以翻译的身份去了。
The following is the oral testimony of four of them: 54-year-old Zhao Chengguo, a 54-year-old university professor in 1993, the second year of diplomatic relations between China and Korea, my first trip to Korea when I was still working in Hebei Province.
第一次去韩国我们就在首尔待了一个月，那时候它还叫汉城。
We spent a month in Seoul on our first trip to Korea, when it was called Seoul.
我们展出的都是一些纺织品、机械用品和原料半成品。
We have on display some textiles, machinery supplies and semi-finished raw materials.
当时我们国家的经济相对来说还不太发达，我记得1993年韩国的人均GDP已经8000多美元了，而我们的还不到400美元。
Our economy was relatively underdeveloped at the time, and I remember that in 1993 South Korea's per capita GDP was more than $8,000, while ours was less than $400.
第一次去韩国就能发现两个国家差距非常大。
A first visit to South Korea revealed a wide gap between the two countries.
从我个人来说，那次去韩国是蛮自卑的。
Personally, that trip to Korea was rather self-defeating.
特别是韩国满街的车和时尚的建筑给我感触特别深，我在韩国认识的朋友里，有些家庭夫妻两人一人一台车，这种情况很常见，在90年代的我们看来，几乎是努力一辈子可能都达不到的生活水平。
I was particularly struck by the high street cars and fashionable buildings in South Korea, where it was common for me to meet people in families with a car and a couple, and in the 1990s we thought it was almost a standard of living that we might not have been able to achieve in a lifetime.
当时韩国人会觉得我们穿得比较土，那里有很多西餐，我在去韩国以前基本上没吃过西餐，刚去的时候很不适应，因为不了解西餐的用餐礼节，还出了点笑话。
Before I went to Korea, I hardly ate Western food. When I first went to South Korea, I didn't get used to it. I didn't know the etiquette of Western food and made some jokes.
1993年，第一家肯德基才刚刚进青岛。
In 1993, the first KFC just arrived in Qingdao.
在那种环境下，我就特别感叹于这种差距。
In that context, I was particularly struck by this disparity.
2001年，我来到中国海洋大学工作，做海洋文化相关的研究。
In 2001, I came to China Ocean University to work on marine culture-related research.
刚来青岛时就发现这里韩料特别多，那时候是韩资的投资高峰期，来青岛的韩国企业效益都很好，韩国人在这里，可谓是春风得意吧，经营兴旺。
When I first came to Qingdao, I found that there was a special amount of Korean materials. It was the peak investment period for Korean capital.
韩国人多，韩餐馆也多。
There are many Koreans and many Korean restaurants.
来青岛之后，我去韩国的次数更多了，基本上每隔一两年就会去韩国开学术会议。
After I came to Qingdao, I went to Korea more often, basically every one or two years to hold academic conferences in Korea.
2010年到2011年我又去韩国做了一年访问学者。
From 2010 to 2011, I went to Korea as a visiting scholar for another year.
这19年，我感觉青岛的变化特别明显，青岛正好能反映这些年中国的高速发展。
In the past 19 years, I feel Qingdao has changed a lot. Qingdao can reflect the rapid development of China in recent years.
2008年，北京奥运会的帆船赛在青岛举办，这是它快速发展一个重要契机。
In 2008, the Beijing Olympic sailing competition was held in Qingdao, which is an important opportunity for its rapid development.
从那以后，城市从整个面貌的变化上来看，发展速度非常快，从外观上来看跟国外的城市也越来越接近了，和1993年不能同日而语。
From then on, the city grew very fast in terms of the whole landscape, and looked closer and closer to foreign cities than it had been in 1993.
我觉得奥帆赛对青岛品牌的国际化推广是一个转折点，这之后十二年能感受到青岛在国际上的影响力越来越大。
I think the Olympic Games to Qingdao brand international promotion is a turning point, after which 12 years can feel Qingdao in the international influence growing.
我自己明显感受到的就是自信心提升了。
What I clearly felt for myself was an increase in self-confidence.
比如说，我们可以大方地向外国人介绍自己生产的产品了。
For example, we can introduce our products to foreigners in a generous way.
90年代我是没有自信去跟韩国人介绍海尔、海信的，他们会笑话我们。
I didn't have the confidence to introduce Haier and Hisense to the Koreans in the '90s. They would laugh at us.
这些品牌当时跟三星、LG根本不能相提并论。
At the time, these brands were nothing like Samsung or LG.
以前买家电我也基本会选日本、韩国的产品，现在我家里用的电器基本是海尔、海信这类国产品牌。
I used to buy home appliances I will also choose Japanese, Korean products, now my home appliances are basically Haier, Hisense and other domestic brands.
实际上，2008年时候，我们已经能感受到中国企业竞争力在加强了，当时青岛这边人力成本在增加，这在一定程度上削弱了一些在青岛办厂的韩国企业的竞争力。
In fact, in 2008, we were already feeling the competitiveness of Chinese companies, as labor costs on the Qingdao side increased, to some extent weakening the competitiveness of some Korean companies operating in Qingdao.
刚好2008年又赶上金融危机，青岛这边破产的韩国企业特别多，甚至还有跑路的。
Just in 2008 to catch up with the financial crisis, Qingdao side of the bankruptcy of Korean enterprises particularly many, and even run the road.
还有一些韩国企业，本来效益就不好，金融危机来了正好就把产业转移到用工成本更低的地方，比如说中国内地或东南亚。
There are also South Korean companies that are already doing badly, and the financial crisis has shifted industries to places with lower labor costs, such as mainland China or Southeast Asia.
2009年，韩国的零售企业乐天玛特在崂山区开了一家店，但是我去的次数不多，我印象中它一直以来热度就不高。
In 2009, Rakuten Matt, a South Korean retailer, opened a store in Laoshan, but I didn't go there many times and I have the impression that it had never been as hot as it was.
在青岛，日本的佳世客一直这里最好的超市，它现在还在青岛市内开了两处超大型的商场，生意特别好。
In Qingdao, Japan's Jia Shi Ke has always been the best supermarket here, it now also opened two ultra-large stores in Qingdao, business is particularly good.
乐天玛特确实比佳世客进青岛的时间要晚，但是进来以后也没有竞争过周边其他品牌，在萨德事件之前它的效益已经不好了。
It is true that Rakuten Matt entered Qingdao later than Jia, but it has not competed with other brands in the vicinity since then, and its benefits were diminished prior to the Thad incident.
2015年，乐天玛特在青岛的所有门店就已经停业了。
In 2015, all Latitude's stores in Qingdao have been closed.
这些年，韩国企业在青岛的经济效益下降之后，韩国人也逐渐向外转移，比如说以前韩国经济好的时候，青岛市里像市南区、崂山区那边的韩国人非常多，现在明显减少了，他们逐渐向市中心周边的城阳、胶州、即墨迁移了。
After years of declining economic benefits for Korean companies in Qingdao, South Koreans have gradually moved outward. For example, when South Korea's economy was good, the number of Koreans on the other side of Qingdao, like the South District and Laoshan District, declined markedly.
因为本身青岛市内的韩国企业也远远少于周边。
Because its own Qingdao in the South Korean enterprises are also far less than the surrounding.
对他们来说，在临近市郊的即墨、平度办厂，用工成本也会相对更低。
For them, in the vicinity of the outskirts of the city, that is, Mexico, flat factory, the cost of labor will also be relatively low.
城阳那边的韩国人一直很多。
There have always been many Koreans in the city.
这和它的地理位置有关系。
It has to do with its geographical location.
因为流亭机场就在城阳区，这里是对韩交流最近的区域。
Because the kiosk airport is in the city Yang area, this is the nearest area for exchanges with South Korea.
另外，城阳处于临近市内，又接壤胶州、即墨，并且离平度也不远，很多韩国人喜欢住在城阳跟这个位置有关系。
In addition, the city is in the vicinity of the city, Jiaozhou, that is, Mexico, and is not far from the level, many Koreans like to live in the city with this position.
这样他们进出青岛市内比较方便，即便他的工厂在即墨、胶州，去城阳也同样方便。
In this way, they enter and leave Qingdao more convenient, even if his factory in that is, ink, Jiaozhou, to the city is also convenient.
▲青岛市于2017年底进行了一次行政区划调整，调整后青岛下辖市南区、市北区等7个市辖区及胶州、平度、莱西3个县级市。
Qingdao in the end of 2017, an administrative division of the adjustment, Qingdao under the jurisdiction of the Southern District, City North and other seven municipal districts and Jiaozhou, Ping Du, Lexi three county-level cities.
现在接触到的韩国朋友，反过来都会表达出对中国的羡慕，他们觉得中国发展太快了。
South Korean friends now in touch, in turn, express admiration for China, which they feel is growing too fast.
甚至快到完全没有给他们留出反应的机会。
There is not even a chance to respond at all.
他们还没反应过来，中韩之间的差距已经被缩得非常小了，特别是在总体经济实力方面，中国远远超过了韩国。
They have yet to respond, and the gap between China and South Korea has narrowed very little, especially when it comes to overall economic power, with China far outpacing South Korea.
我现在给00后本科生上世界文化史课的时候，经常会结合我以前去韩国时感受到的差距以及中国这些年的变化，客观地给学生们讲东亚历史。
When I teach post-200 undergraduates about world cultural history, I often tell students about East Asian history in the light of the gap I felt when I went to Korea and the changes China has undergone in recent years.
和学生交流的时候，我明显感觉他们的民族自信心跟我们那会儿完全不一样了。
When I spoke to the students, I obviously felt that their national self-confidence was completely different from what we had at the time.
这不只是国家的宣传作用，他们也有自己的判断。
This is not only the role of the State in advocacy; they also have their own judgement.
随着中国国力增强，国际影响力提升之后，这些年轻人对国家的认同感自然会增强。
As China's power grows and its international influence grows, so will their sense of national identity.
最近这一两年我甚至发现，学生们越来越喜欢中国的歌星、中国的偶像。
In the last year or two, I have even noticed that students are increasingly attracted to Chinese pop stars and Chinese idols.
以前的学生基本都喜欢追日韩的、欧美的明星。
Former students like to pursue the star of Japan and South Korea, Europe and America.
前段时间我还从学生那里打听到，现在年轻人对像肖战这些中国明星的喜爱程度不亚于对韩国偶像的喜爱。
Some time ago I also learned from students that young people now love Chinese stars as much as they do Korean icons.
这是很大的一个变化。
This is a big change.
OurCity王昊文：24岁，学生我从小在黄岛长大，黄岛是一个国家开发区，但凡开发区，外企就会特别多。
OurCity Wang Haowen: Twenty-four years old, student. I grew up in Huangdao, a national development zone.
从幼儿园开始，我的班里面就一直有韩国同学。
Since kindergarten, my class has always had Korean students.
每年六一儿童节，韩国小朋友都会单独组织一个节目。
Every June 1 Children's Day, Korean children will organize a separate program.
他们在中文特别好，好多是从小在中国长大，学外语快。
They are very good at Chinese. A lot of them grew up in China and learned foreign languages quickly.
我们之间交流没有任何障碍，大家在一起该玩啥玩啥，该唠啥唠啥。
There is no barrier to communication between us, so much so that they would converse what we should play together.
这些孩子们和我们没有任何的区别，还蛮亲切的。
These children are not any different from us. They are very kind.
以前我们家邻居也有韩国阿姨，对我们都非常好，韩国很多阿姨都是家庭主妇，她们经常打座机电话，召集楼里的孩子们去家里吃好吃的。
In the past, our neighbors also have Korean aunt, we are very good, many Korean aunts are housewives, they often play landline phone, convoke the children in the building to eat delicious food at home.
韩国阿姨做饭也确实好吃。
Korean aunt cooking is really delicious.
我读小学的时候，金融危机还没来，韩国人在青岛的地位还挺高的。
When I was in primary school, the financial crisis had not yet come, the position of Koreans in Qingdao is still quite high.
那时候，感觉他们走路带风，而且非常爱国。
At that time, they walked with a sense of wind, and very patriotic.
以前韩国人都是住高档小区，青岛高消费的场所，像KTV、洗浴中心的门口都挂着韩语牌，现在也都见不到了。
South Koreans used to live in upscale neighborhoods, high-end venues such as KTV, bathing centers and Korean-language signs that are now nowhere to be seen.
他们开的都是韩国的汽车，那时候外资企业的车挂的还是那种黑色牌照。
They were all Korean cars, and in those days foreign companies had black license plates.
以前一下课，韩国家长就开着他们车停在学校门口接孩子，感觉特别拉风。
In the past, Korean parents drove their cars to pick up the children in front of the school, feeling particularly windy.
那时候咱们中国没有什么私家车，上下学都是自己坐公交汽车。
There were no private cars in China at that time, so we took buses to and from school.
印象中韩国小孩都很时尚，在2008、2009年时候就用上苹果出的第一款3G手机。
South Korean children are very stylish, in 2008, 2009 used Apple's first 3G mobile phone.
咱们国家连3G还没有，他们就已经有苹果了。
Our country doesn't even have 3G, they already have apples.
2008年经济危机之后，班里的韩国人就没有了，一夜之间，一个学期之后就不知道哪去了。
After the 2008 economic crisis, the class of Koreans did not, overnight, a semester later do not know where.
2008年之前青岛有很多韩语培训，后来也就销声匿迹了。
Qingdao had a lot of Korean language training before 2008, and then disappeared.
2008年之后黄岛的韩国人也显著减少了，当然也留下来很多人，但是韩国小孩都去青岛市区念国际学校了。
After 2008, the number of South Koreans in Huangdao also declined significantly, and many of them remained, but South Korean children went to the International School in downtown Qingdao.
因为当时黄岛有这样一个政策，因为韩国学生少了，再加上黄岛重点中学名额有限，教师资源不足，就把这些韩国的孩子们安排到黄岛第六中学学习。
Because there was such a policy at the time, because of the small number of South Korean students and the limited number of places available in key secondary schools in Huangdao and the shortage of teachers' resources, the Korean children were placed in secondary school No. 6 on Huangdao.
我们这边比较好的实验中学——开发区第四中学，也要把韩国学生安排去了第六中学。
Our side of the better experimental secondary school - Development Zone No. 4 Middle School, but also South Korean students will be placed in the sixth secondary school.
那里的教学条件可能不是那么好，这相当于把更多的资源倾斜给了本国的孩子。
The teaching conditions there may not be so good, which is tantamount to tilting more resources to children at home.
后来黄岛也慢慢有了国际学校，但政策又改了。
Then came the International School on Huangdao. But the policy changed.
韩国小孩如果是短期停留或者别的情况要入学就很麻烦，他们就只有两个选择，在韩国跟着家里长辈学习，或者是到青岛市区的国际学校。
If South Korean children are stuck in school for a short time or otherwise, they have only two options, either to follow their elders in South Korea or to go to the International School in downtown Qingdao.
黄岛就没有2004、2005年那种中韩小朋友非常融合的局面了。
Huangdao did not have the kind of 2004, 2005 kind of Chinese and South Korean children very integrated situation.
▲青岛市南区的五四广场外围海面便是2008年夏季奥运会水上帆船项目的赛场，广场北面则是青岛市政府所在地。
Qingdao South District's 54 square outside the sea is the 2008 Summer Olympic water sailing events, north of the square is the Qingdao city government site.
他们撤退了，咱们实力也增强了，我感觉这是一个阶段性的产物。
They retreated, our strength increased, and I felt that this was a stage product.
2007年，我第一次去韩国，感觉韩国挺发达的，2014年再去的时候，我就觉得北京、上海也不比首尔差。
In 2007, I went to Korea for the first time, feeling that South Korea is quite developed, and when I go back in 2014, I think Beijing and Shanghai are no worse than Seoul.
韩国就一个首尔，釜山还不如青岛。
South Korea is a Seoul, Busan is not as Qingdao.
我坐车从首尔到其他城市时，高速公路旁的村庄跟山东一样一样的，没有任何区别。
When I took the bus from Seoul to other cities, the villages next to the expressway were the same as those in Shandong, without any difference.
前段时间，网上在传韩国人因为疫情逃来青岛的事，这个结论是通过机票涨价来推断的，我看到这个信息时就觉得结论不成立。
Some time ago, the Internet in the spread of the Korean epidemic fled to Qingdao, this conclusion is based on the price of air tickets to infer, I saw this message when the conclusion was not valid.
韩国人根本就不信任中国，小时候他们韩国人基本上有什么东西都是回国去搞，看病也回国看，他们骨子里还是瞧不起我们。
Koreans do not trust China at all. When they were young, they basically went back to Korea to do things, to see doctors back home, they still look down on us.
青岛到首尔飞机非常多，每天有十几趟，机票压减之后，回青岛复工的需求还是有很多，导致返程高峰期机票上涨。
Qingdao to Seoul a very large number of flights, a dozen times a day, after the reduction of air tickets, Qingdao back to work after the demand is still many, leading to the return of peak ticket prices.
但是这并不能说明韩国人都过来了，我最开始第一反应就不太相信这个，后来发现这个判断也是挺准确的。
But that doesn't mean the South Koreans are coming, and my initial reaction was that I didn't believe it, and it turned out to be accurate.
虽然说我们已经发展到现在这个程度了，但他们对我们还是有偏见的，这种东西需要时间来慢慢改变。
Although we have come to this point, they are still biased against us, this kind of thing takes time to change slowly.
我爸爸有个韩国朋友，2012年前后来过一次中国，当时他老是吐槽说咱们中国的现金太旧了，还说他们韩国的纸币新。
My father had a Korean friend who had a visit to China before 2012, when he used to spit out that our Chinese cash was too old and said their Korean paper money was new.
我当时心想，“我的天哪，瞧把你厉害的”。
I was thinking, "Oh my God, look at you."
不过，我没有表达出来，因为包容、圆融是最好的。
However, I did not express it, because inclusion, mellow is the best.
这也是我们中国文化的价值。
This is also the value of our Chinese culture.
现在我在英国读完大学，准备回国找工作，在国外，文化生活习惯不一样。
Now that I have finished college in the UK and am going to look for a job back home, cultural habits are different in foreign countries.
我觉得咱们心态要成熟一点，不要老是感觉哪个国家就更好，大家都是地球村的公民，相互之间应该包容。
I think we should be mature mentality, do not always feel which country is better, we are all citizens of the global village, should be inclusive of each other.
OurCity99：28岁，公司行政我是青岛本地人，小时候住在市南区。
I am a native of Qingdao. When I was a child, I lived in the southern part of the city.
2004年，我转学去的那个小学里韩国人特别多，我们班就有6、7个韩国来的学生。
In 2004, the primary school I transferred to had a very large number of Koreans. There were 6 or 7 Korean students in my class.
他们都是从一年级就在那个班上课了，中文非常好。
They have been in that class since the first grade. Chinese is very good.
韩国人给我的印象就是，挺爱抱团的。
The impression that Koreans give me is that they are very attached to each other.
比如说，一个班里两个男孩子起了争执，如果里面有一个韩国人，他们打架的时候就会把全校的韩国男生、女生都弄过来。
For example, two boys in a class had an argument. If there was a Korean in it, they would pick up all the Korean boys and girls from the school when they were fighting.
他们在学校不能说有特权，但能明显感觉到老师在处理问题的上总归是跟处理我们时不太一样。
They can't be privileged at school, but there's a palpable sense that teachers are not always the same as when they are dealing with us.
像这种男生打架的情况，虽然就是小学那种打闹，但老师最后一定是让中国学生被请家长。
Boys like this, although the primary school kind of fighting, but the teacher must finally let Chinese students be invited parents.
韩国学生在中国考大学也不需要参加高考，他们通过一个叫留学生测试的东西就能上中国的大学。
South Korean students are not required to take the college entrance examination either. They can go to a Chinese university by passing a test called the Foreign Student Test.
我接触的韩国学生，成绩都不怎么好。
None of the South Korean students I spoke to did very well.
我初中时候的同桌就是韩国人，后来他去了清华，同学们得知这个消息的时候都挺惊讶的。
My deskmate in junior high school was a Korean, and later he went to Tsinghua. His classmates were surprised when they heard the news.
因为直到我初三毕业，对他的印象都是成绩在中游水平，不算特别好，全年级500多个人，他排在150左右。
Because until I graduated from junior high school, his impression is in the middle school level, not particularly good, the year-round more than 500 people, he ranked around 150.
韩国女孩确实比我们会打扮，都是穿校服，她们就能穿得和我们不一样。
Korean girls do dress up better than we do, wear school uniforms, and they can dress differently from us.
我们学校那时候特别流行一种校服的穿法，就是把整个校服往后扯，胸前的衣服被拉那个校服领子底下。
In our school in those days a school uniform particularly popular way, is to pull back the entire school uniform, chest clothes were pulled under the collars.
这种穿法就是从韩国女孩那儿学的，他们说这样显得胸大，后来风靡了我们整个学校了。
This dress was learned from Korean girls, who said it was big-chested and became popular throughout our school.
我小时候不喜欢韩国人，这里面也有一些嫉妒的成分。
When I was young, I didn't like Koreans, and there was a bit of jealousy in it.
2008年，我在上初三，学校里的韩国人感觉一下子就安静了。
In 2008, I was on the third day of junior high school, the Korean people in the school suddenly felt quiet.
以前男生打架，十有八九有韩国人在里面，金融危机之后，很少再听见韩国人参与打架的事儿了。
Boys used to fight, in nine out of ten South Koreans in the inside, after the financial crisis, rarely heard of the Korean participation in the fight.
当时在青岛有很多被韩国人坑了的企业，他们可能也知道自己的民族在这里做了一些不那么光彩的事。
There were a lot of businesses in Qingdao that were potholed by Koreans, and they probably knew that their own people had done something disgraceful here.
青岛有很多韩国人来做服装外贸，我舅舅那年刚好买了个韩国的服装厂，他投入钱和设备，请韩国人来做设计图。
Many Koreans came to Qingdao to do foreign trade in clothing. My uncle happened to buy a Korean clothing factory that year. He invested money and equipment and asked the Koreans to do the design.
金融危机来了之后，他们就携家带口卷着设备跑了，感觉特别突然，好像前一天晚上大家还在安排第二天的进度，转天早上就跑了。
When the financial crisis hit, they ran away with their homes and their equipment rolled up. It was as if everyone had planned for the next night and ran away the next morning.
金融危机过后，不少韩国人又回来了。
After the financial crisis, many Koreans returned.
我舅舅厂的那个韩国人在2009年的时候也回来了，因为他们的房子、基业都在青岛。
The Korean from my uncle's factory came back in 2009 because their house and property were in Qingdao.
金融危机的时候，他怕舅舅的工厂撑不下去，就跑回去避避风头。
During the financial crisis, he ran back to safety, fearing his uncle's factory would not hold up.
他们回来之后，我舅舅把自己在工厂的股份转给这个韩国人，可能也是不想和他们再做生意了。
When they returned, my uncle transferred his shares in the factory to the South Korean and probably didn't want to do business with them again.
读高中的时候，我去了新加坡。
In high school, I went to Singapore.
那里的中国人太多了，大家都不是以省抱团，而是以城市抱团。
There are so many Chinese there that people don't clutch together in the province, but in the city.
在国外生活的时候，是我要努力去融入他们的文化，这个感觉和青岛的韩国人还不太一样。
When I was living abroad, it was I who tried to assimilate into their culture, a feeling different from that of the Koreans in Qingdao.
在别的城市我不知道，至少在青岛，韩国人要融入进来应该是非常容易的。
In other cities I don't know, at least in Qingdao, it should be very easy for South Koreans to fit in.
青岛已经给了他们足够舒适的环境。
Qingdao has given them a comfortable environment.
比如在城阳，饭店全是中韩双语。
In Chengyang, for example, restaurants are bilingual.
但在新加坡，除了在中餐馆，是见不到中文的，也感受不到他们对我们的善待政策了，青岛在这方面确实很善待韩国人。
But in Singapore, except in Chinese restaurants, you can not see Chinese, nor can you feel their kindness to us. Qingdao is very kind to the Koreans in this respect.
读大学的时候，我就回国了。
When I was in college, I went back to China.
从大学开始，我经常飞韩国买衣服，一年一般要去两次。
From college, I often fly to Korea to buy clothes, usually twice a year.
萨德事件对中韩关系影响挺大的，当时我正好在韩国打HPV的疫苗，因为飞韩国便宜，我往返一趟韩国只要1200块钱，去香港起码是2000多。
The Thad incident had a strong impact on China-South Korea relations, when I happened to be fighting HPV vaccines in South Korea, where I spent $1,200 on a round trip to South Korea and at least 2,000 on my way to Hong Kong.
2017年5月，我正好要去打第二针，那时候很多中国人就不去韩国了。
In May 2017, I'm just about to take a second shot, when many Chinese will no longer go to Korea.
年初去打第一针的时候在韩国机场免税店提货还要排好长时间的队，5月打完第二针回国的时候，免税店基本上都没人。
At the beginning of the year, there was a long queue at the duty-free shop at the South Korean airport to pick up the first shot, and by the time the second shot came home in May, the duty-free shops were largely empty.
18岁以前，我挺不喜欢韩国人的，去外国念书之后接触到各个国家的人，也感觉到以前在国内学校碰到的韩国人可能也不是故意那么烦人的，每个国家有自己的文化。
Before I was 18, I didn't like the Koreans. People who came into contact with different countries after studying abroad felt that the Koreans they met at home might not be as annoying as they intended, and each country had its own culture.
成人之后我算是跟自己和世界和解了，现在也能心平气和的对待韩国人。
As an adult, I have reconciled with myself and the world, and now I am able to treat the Koreans with equanimity.
但是，在非必要的情况下，我还是尽量避免跟他们接触。
However, I try to avoid contact with them if it is not necessary.
因为小时候碰上的那些事儿和后来看的韩剧，给我留下了他们不怎么靠谱的印象。
Because of what happened when I was a child and the Korean drama that followed, I was left with the impression that they were not very reliable.
OurCity林松：27岁，互联网创业者我在青岛的家是在即墨，但我一直在外面上学，从小学到高中，一直辗转在不同的私立学校，大部分时候在青岛市区的私立学校读书。
My home in Qingdao is Mexico City, but I have been studying outside, from primary to high school, all the way to different private schools, mostly in downtown Qingdao.
初中时候，有一段时间转去了潍坊、山西上学。
Junior high school, a period of time to transfer to Weifang, Shanxi school.
2013年，我去韩国念大学，学的是外事产业管理。
In 2013, I went to the Republic of Korea to study at the University, where I studied foreign affairs industry management.
出国是被家里逼的，妈妈希望我接受到更好的教育，我是个不爱学习的人，他们想让我去国外锻炼，学一些课本上没有的东西。
My mother wanted me to get a better education. I was a non-learner. They wanted me to go abroad and learn something I didn't have in my textbooks.
高中时候，他们想让我去美国、澳洲，从高中读的话，参加当地高考相对简单，但我都不想去。
In high school, they wanted me to go to America, Australia, high school, the local college entrance examination is relatively simple, but I do not want to go.
因为到了国外，环境和语言都不同，一切都要重新适应。
Because when you go abroad, the environment and language are different, everything has to be readjusted.
当时我所有想玩的、最好朋友都在中国，去了国外就玩不了了。
All the best friends I wanted to play with were in China, so I couldn't play abroad.
后来有一段时间，我在山东艺术学院上大学，大一的时候突然觉得自己过得浑浑噩噩，像个废物。
Later, when I was a freshman at Shandong Academy of Art, I suddenly felt like I had a rotten life, like a waste of time.
最后决定还是出国，就去了韩国。
Finally decided to go abroad, went to Korea.
刚到韩国的时候，给我印象特别深，去学校坐的是大巴，我在休息站买了一根烤肠，居然花了6000韩币，相当于30多块人民币。
When I first arrived in Korea, I was particularly impressed. I went to school on a bus. I bought a sausage at the rest stop and spent 6,000 won, or more than 30 yuan.
我当时特别不开心，差一点就要哭出来那种感觉。
I was so unhappy that I almost cried out.
虽然我从小到达没怎么跟父母一起生活过，但是碰见这么贵的烤肠，突然就开始想家了。
Although I came to live with my parents very little, but encountered so expensive baked intestine, suddenly began to miss home.
在韩国待了半年，这种情绪差不多就没了，习惯了之后，我头几年觉得韩国特别棒，希望以后留在韩国，因为第一年之后我就自己挣钱了，每个月能有三到四万人民币的收入。
After six months in South Korea, the mood was almost over, and after I got used to it, I felt especially good about Korea in the first few years and wanted to stay in Korea, because after the first year I made my own money, earning 30,000 to 40,000 yuan a month.
当时我在韩国做类似中介的工作，帮来韩国打工的朝鲜族人、欧洲人介绍工作，帮在这里的中国人买车、修车或者考驾照。
I was working as a similar intermediary in South Korea, helping ethnic Koreans and Europeans come to South Korea to introduce jobs and help Chinese buy cars, fix cars or get driver's licenses here.
不过，这种工作本质上还是因为信息不对称造成的，我后来觉得挣的这些钱根本就不是长久之计。
However, the job is essentially due to information asymmetry, I later found that the money earned is not a long-term solution.
当时想过在韩国学校附近开酒吧、饭店，但是这也是铁打的营盘流水的兵，最后靠的是人脉关系，等这批人走了，生意还是不好做。
I wanted to open a bar or restaurant near a South Korean school, but it was an iron-clad operation, and finally a network of people. After the group left, business was not easy.
在韩国，以中国人的身份很难进入所谓的上流社会，高端点的产业你很难进去。
In South Korea, it's hard to get into the so-called upper class society as a Chinese, and it's hard to get into high-end industries.
我们也很难跟韩国男生去竞争，韩国男生真的很刻苦、很拼。
We are also very difficult to compete with South Korean boys, Korean boys really very hard, very hard work.
他们读完大一，就要去服兵役，服完兵役之后回来继续读到大三之后，还要休学去打工，挣大四的学费。
After finishing their freshman year, they have to perform military service, return from military service to continue their studies after junior high school, but also to work to earn a senior tuition.
在这期间，他们还要考各种各样的证件。
During this time, they also have to examine various kinds of documents.
韩国男生是比中国男生更有毅力的，所以我对进韩国大公司没抱希望。
The South Korean guys are more persistent than the Chinese guys, so I have no hope of joining the big South Korean companies.
快毕业的时候，有个韩国的老板找到我，希望我代表他们公司驻派到上海，一个月工资只有5000元，我就没去。
When I was about to graduate, a Korean boss came to me and asked me to come to Shanghai on behalf of my company. The salary was only 5000 yuan a month.
我的一个韩国老师就是这家公司的，他告诉我，公司现在已经不允许任何中国人当管理层了，我去上海工作根本没有什么意义。
One of my Korean teachers, who works for the company, told me that the company no longer allows any Chinese to be in management and that it makes no sense for me to work in Shanghai.
妈妈身体不好，我就回青岛了。
Mother was not well, so I went back to Qingdao.
刚回来的时候，我每周来回飞青岛和首尔备货，一直专心在做代购生意。
When I first came back, I flew back and forth every week to Qingdao and Seoul to get supplies, and had been concentrating on buying for them.
刚回国时候，中韩关系特别好，后来因为萨德事件闹掰了。
Upon his return, China and South Korea had excellent relations and later broke up because of the Thad incident.
我虽然也知道这个新闻，但这种国际关系没法切身感受，觉得不重要。
Although I also know this news, but this kind of international relations cannot feel personally, feel not important.
2017年事儿大了之后我去了一趟韩国，还是挺可怕的。
I went to Korea in 2017, after the big business, it is terrible.
韩国乐天的营业额减少了70%，首尔的广场本来挂着两个国家领导人握手的动画宣传图也被拆掉了。
South Korea's turnover fell 70%, and an animated picture of two leaders shaking hands in Seoul's plaza was pulled down.
韩国免税店里本来中国人就特别多，那段时间店里给人一种空城的感觉。
Korea duty-free shop originally Chinese people are particularly many, that time the store gave a feeling of emptiness.
我那次觉得中国人蛮厉害的，说不买就不买了。
At that time, I thought the Chinese people are pretty fierce, said not to buy.
不过这种事情对我们这种小生意没什么影响。
But this kind of thing has no effect on a small business like ours.
对我们代购生意影响比较大的是后来国家出台的《电子商务法》。
The impact on our buying business is the later state-issued "Electronic Commerce Law."
这个代购生意是个违法的生意，2018年，我们有一趟货一次性就被海关扣下了，当时那批货差不多40万元，海关压货压了两个月，后来我们又交了很多税，客户那边也要求退货，所有的钱周转不过来了，我最后就撤了。
The contract business was an illegal one, and in 2018, we had a one-off shipment that was held up by customs, about $400,000, two months of customs pressure, and then we paid a lot of taxes and customers asked for a refund.
现在我在创业帮实体店做第三方拓宽方面的运营。
Now I'm doing a third-party widening operation in the Band-Aid store.
这里面医美客户最多，其中也有一些是韩国的客户。
It has the largest number of medical and American customers, some of whom are Korean customers.
韩国老板是非常注重团队建设的。
South Korean bosses are very team-building.
在中国，我知道有的韩国老板到年底会自己包一个就把、饭店请员工吃饭。
In China, I know some Korean bosses will wrap one up by the end of the year and invite staff to dinner at restaurants.
他们很注重这种心理文化上的消费和娱乐，比如很多韩国人会周末飞来青岛。
They pay attention to this kind of psychological and cultural consumption and entertainment, for example, many South Koreans will fly to Qingdao over the weekend.
在城阳那边，现在有很多韩国人组团过来按摩、打高尔夫、洗浴。
In the other side of the city, there are now many Korean groups to massage, golf, bath.
不管挣多少钱，他们都要保证一个比较好的生活品质，我比较喜欢他们这一点。
No matter how much money they earn, they want to ensure a better quality of life, and I like them better.
应受访者要求，文中王昊文、99、林松为化名@城市OurCity原创内容 转载请联系授权欢迎转发朋友圈History Review。
At the request of the respondents, Wang Haowen, 99 and Lin Song reproduced the original content for the pseudonym @ City of OurCity.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
四位青岛市民眼中的韩国。
South Korea in the eyes of four Qingdao citizens.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "艺术文化";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; arts, culture;;;
var nickname = "城市OurCity";。
var nickname = & quot; City City & quot;;
var msg_title = "四位青岛市民眼中的韩国";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; in the eyes of four Qingdao residents.
var msg_desc = "“恐”韩背后";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '一家义乌「小龙头」的复工样本',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '城市OurCity',。
Subject _ name: & apos; City OurCity & apos;;.
var title ="城市OurCity";。
var title = & quot; City City & quot;;
