十个医学生的武汉“同学会”。
Wuhan "fellow society" of ten medical students.
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
2月29日凌晨两点，武汉市第一医院ICU隔离病房里，护士郑旭旺正在填写患者输液不良反应回报单。
Feb. 29, at 2 a.m., Wuhan City Hospital ICU isolation ward, nurses Zheng Xuwang is filling out patients adverse reactions to the report.
3天前下班路过ICU时，他看到病房里挤满了医生和护士在给一位患者上“人工肺”（ECMO），那是他第一次与如今护理的病人见面。
As he walked past the ICU three days ago, he saw the ward packed with doctors and nurses giving a patient an "artificial lung" (ECMO), his first meeting with a patient he cares for today.
中⻘报·中青网见习记者鲁冲/摄作者 |中青报·中青网见习记者 张艺编辑|刘世昕这几乎是一个极小概率的事件，武汉第一医院急诊科医生张宁和其他9位大学同学毕业15年后再“相聚”在同一座城市，竟然是共同为了与一种全新的病毒赛跑。
Zhongzhong News: Lu Chong / Photographer / Photographer at Zhongqing Newspaper Zhongqing Zhongying.com Student Journalist Zhang Shi Xin This is an almost minimal chance that Zhang Ning, an emergency doctor at Wuhan First Hospital, and nine other university students will meet in the same city 15 years after graduation.
15年间，张宁和同学分布在全国各地，各自有着不一样的人生轨迹，就连同学群很多时候也是寂静的。
During the past 15 years, Zhang Ning and his classmates were scattered all over the country, each with a different track of life.
20年前，他们是第四军医大学（现名空军军医大学）刚刚入学的少年，张华大队是他们共同的名字。
Twenty years ago, they were freshmen at the Fourth Military Medical University (now known as the Air Force Military Medical University), whose common name was Zhang Hua.
现在，他们成为中国医生的中流砥柱。
Now they are a mainstay of Chinese doctors.
他们从西安、长春、南京、新疆等地顶上来，承担起感控、重症、耗材、急诊各类工作。
They from Xi'an, Changchun, Nanjing, Xinjiang, and other places to assume the control, severe, consumables, emergency work.
既要治病救人，也要保护医生，他们同在一线，但他们又是如此不同。
They are on the front line, trying to save people and protect doctors, but they are so different.
“武汉的同学有些挺不住了”新型肺炎病毒的突袭，一开始让医护人员都有些措手不及。
"Wuhan students some can not survive" the new pneumonia virus raid, at first let the medical personnel are a bit taken aback.
急诊室首当其冲。
Emergency rooms were first.
早期，不寻常的发热症状已经在武汉的急诊圈传开。
In the early days, unusual febrile symptoms have spread throughout Wuhan's emergency circle.
张宁的同学之一方庆，就职于一家位于武昌区的医院，是急诊科的主治医师。
Zhang Ning's classmate Jing, who works in a hospital in Wuchang district, is an emergency department doctor.
1月2号，医院就加派人手到发热门诊，并开始对医护人员开展相关培训。
On January 2, the hospital sent more staff to the fever clinic and began training medical staff.
1月25日，在收到武汉第七医院的求助函，方庆带着7位医生、15名护士，去支援第七医院一个收治了48名病人的病区。
On January 25, after receiving a letter of help from Wuhan Seventh Hospital, Fang took seven doctors and 15 nurses to support a section of the seventh hospital where 48 patients had been treated.
由于人手不足，除了一位重症科、一位呼吸科的医生外，来的多是内科、外科医生，其中的心内科医生石金虎正是方庆的大学同学。
Due to the shortage of staff, in addition to a severe department, a respiratory doctor, more than internal medicine, surgeons, one of the heart physician Shi Jinhu is Fang Qing's university classmate.
方庆是病区主任，第一个任务是要让无序的医疗流程恢复有序。
Fang Qing is the director of the disease area, the first task is to restore order to the disorder of the medical process.
每个病人具体到第几天做哪些事情，要查哪些指标，病情到哪个地步，要上哪些药？还得方庆一个个地来盯。
Each patient to the specific day to do what, which indicators to check, the extent of the disease, which drugs to take? Fangqing one by one to stare.
年龄最小的护士只有23岁，有的护士个头跟氧气罐差不多高，一天要运两三罐氧气，4小时一趟。
The youngest nurse was only 23, some about the size of an oxygen tank, carrying two or three cans of oxygen a day for four hours.
一只氧气罐装满的状态有200多斤，39岁的方庆也扛不动，只能一点点滚着，从门口送到病人身边。
An oxygen tank full of more than 200 jin, 39-year-old Fang Fang can not carry, can only roll a little bit, from the door to the patient's side.
病情最凶的时候，7个危重病人要同时上插管、呼吸机。
At the height of the disease, seven critically ill patients had to be intubated and ventilated simultaneously.
可是设备不够，氧气不够。
But there's not enough equipment, not enough oxygen.
这样的情况让很多大夫都特别难受，原本医生可以借助现代医学的仪器设备帮助病人渡过难关，但物资短缺时，真的无能为力。
Such a situation is particularly distressing for many doctors, who can use modern medical devices to help patients through difficult times, but when supplies are scarce, there is little they can do.
一个普通的医院，一般透析设备也就几十台，不会超过百台。
A general hospital, the general dialysis equipment also dozens, will not exceed 100.
但最开始那几天，需求量动不动就要上千。
But for the first few days, the demand can be thousands.
“突然增多的重症病人一下子把医院搞瘫痪了”，方庆回忆。
"The sudden increase in severe cases paralyzed the hospital," Fang recalled.
2月29日凌晨1点半，武汉市第一医院缓冲区内，医护人员在穿防护服。
At 1: 30 am on Feb. 29, medical staff were wearing protective clothing in the buffer zone of Wuhan First Hospital.
中⻘报·中青网见习记者鲁冲/摄与方庆的焦虑不同，张宁从西安来支援的同学许朝晖担心的是，许多普通医院的病区也不符合传染病三区两通道的要求。
Unlike Fang Qing's anxiety, Lu Chong / She, a trainee reporter with Zhongqing Zhongqing, is worried that many general hospital wards do not meet the requirement of two-way access to Three Areas of Infectious Diseases.
这位长期在感染控制科工作的大夫说，房子没办法推倒重来，很多新冠肺炎定点医院的划区改造比新建医院还要困难。
The doctor, a longtime infection-control doctor, said the house could not be overhauled and many of the new Crown Pneumonia hospitals were more difficult to rezoning than the new ones.
他所支援的武昌医院就困难重重。
The hospital in Wuchang, which he supports, is in trouble.
一般情况下，医务人员在清洁区可以脱掉口罩，吃东西喝水，但是武昌医院原有的通道和缓冲间混得太近了。
Normally, medical staff can take off their masks and eat and drink water in the cleaning area, but the existing passageway and buffer zones at Wuchang Hospital are too close together.
脱衣间只有三四平米，出来的医生多，有的脱到最后一件了，有的刚开始脱，很容易造成交叉感染。
Strip only three or four square meters, out of many doctors, some strip to the last, some just started off, easy to cause cross-infection.
武昌医院花了两天时间来重新划分黄区（缓冲区）和红区（隔离区）。
Wuchang Hospital spent two days redrawing the yellow zone (buffer zone) and the red zone (area of separation).
这家医院的问题不止在结构上，院长刘智明的感染对该院医护的士气打击也很大。
The hospital's problems are more than just structural. Dean Liu's infection has had a demoralizing effect on hospital care.
来支援的大夫都有一个共同的信念，先顶上去，让这家医院的同行们缓一缓。
The doctors who came to support them all shared a common belief in going up first to slow down their colleagues in the hospital.
出发前，毕业后一直在长春工作的刘野向武汉的同学了解到的情况是，一线的医护人员快挺不住了。
Before leaving, Liu Nu, who has been working in Changchun since graduation, learned from his classmates in Wuhan that the front-line medical staff were losing ground.
初期留不住患者时，真的很无力作为张宁的同学，从长春来支援的刘野是一名重症科的大夫，他主管的病人老李是驰援医院第一位用上ECMO的患者。
Can not retain patients at the beginning, really very weak as a classmate Zhang Ning, from Changchun to support Liu No is a severe department doctor, his patients Lao Li is the first hospital to use ECMO patients.
一次ECMO就是几十万的成本，非常昂贵，并不是普通医疗可以享受到的治疗。
An ECMO is a hundreds of thousands of dollars, very expensive, and not a treatment that ordinary health care can afford.
ECMO原本用于心脏移植的病人，维持生命体征。
ECMO was originally used for heart transplant patients to maintain vital signs.
现在重症新冠肺炎最后也导致心肺功能衰竭，因此在医生看来，ECMO应该是有用的。
Severe new crown pneumonia now also leads to heart and lung failure, so ECMO should be useful to doctors.
上ECMO的第二天，老李的指标还都很好。
On the second day of ECMO, Lao Li's indicators are still very good.
但后来心脏出了问题，虽然血氧提上去了，心脏却一直不行，最后还是没有抢救过来。
But then the heart problem, although the blood oxygen up, but the heart has not been able to, or finally did not rescue.
这让医生们措手不及，“他用了八九天慢慢好起来，离去的过程却那么快。
The doctors were taken aback. "It took him eight or nine days to get better, but he left so fast.
”老李在重症病房待了13天，这不是一件容易的事，大夫相信他可以活下去，甚至还畅想老李转去普通病房、最后出院的场景。
"Lao Li spent 13 days in the intensive care unit, which was not an easy task. The doctor believed he could survive and even dreamed of Lao Li being transferred to the general ward and finally discharged.
张宁听说，老李去世两天后，刘野接到老李女儿的来电，想知道老李最后离开的情形。
Zhang Ning heard that two days after the death of Lao Li, Liu No received a call from Lao Li's daughter and wanted to know Lao Li's final departure.
那个晚上，刘野在电话里默默听着哭声。
That night, Liu No was listening to the cries silently on the phone.
他告诉老李的女儿，老爷子走的时候挺平静的，他是在昏迷当中离开的，应该感觉不到痛苦。
He told Lao Li's daughter that the old man was quite calm when he left. He had left in a coma and should not feel the pain.
老李的女儿说，谢谢你，谢谢你们。
Lao Li's daughter said, Thank you, thank you.
“你想象不到，你父亲没了之后，作为一个医生我有多难过。
"You can't imagine how sorry I was to be a doctor when your father was gone.
我管你爸13天，我原以为老李会成为我管好的一个样本，但是没想到上ECMO之后是这样的，居然没有。
I cared about your dad for 13 days. I thought Lao Li would be a good sample for me, but I didn't expect this to happen after ECMO.
” 和同学们提起这段时，刘野也哽咽了。
Liu also choked up when he mentioned this paragraph with his classmates.
医生之间偶尔交流着这些无奈。
Doctors occasionally communicate these helplessness.
有一阵子，尽管新增人数少了，但还有一部分病人病情在恶化。
For a while, though the number of new patients was low, some were getting worse.
医生们常常要面对的是，“白班看着这个人还跟我打招呼，第二天夜班接班时，患者就不在了”“ 防护服还没脱完，病人的心跳停了，没有任何征兆，也不给他机会”。
Doctors often have to deal with the fact that the day shift looks at the person saying hello to me and the night shift takes over and the patient is gone. The suit is not finished and the patient's heart stops without warning or opportunity.
在一般的病程中，病重后会经历昏迷，心脏、血压指标恶化，是一个缓慢的过程，但新冠肺炎不是。
In the normal course of illness, serious illness will experience coma, heart, blood pressure indicators deteriorated, is a slow process, but the new crown pneumonia is not.
从情况不好到抢救只半个小时或者一个小时，抢救前病人还跟大夫有说有唠的，过不来的就没了。
From bad to save only half an hour or an hour, the patient and the doctor before the rescue also said that chatter, can not pass.
如果见证了一个病人从生到死，就会知道深刻理解这个病的凶险在哪，抢救点在哪？要在什么时间提前做哪些应对，知道什么时候他开始往下滑，需要伸手拉他一把。
If you witness a patient from birth to death, you will know a lot about the danger of the disease, where the rescue point is, what to do in advance at what time, and when he begins to slide, he needs to reach out and pull him.
虽然经验多了，前来支援的医生们有时仍然无法避免绝望。
Despite their experience, the doctors who come to their aid are sometimes unable to avoid despair.
刘野曾跟另一位主任医生说过，“很多病人在我手里想死都难，我能保证做到这种程度。
'A lot of patients want to die in my hands, and I can guarantee that, 'Mr. Liu told another doctor.
”但开始那个阶段看着现在接手的病人一个接一个离去，刘野感觉自己的能力没用上，这么多年的技术在这个病面前好像施展不开。
But at first, seeing one patient after another go, Liu felt his abilities were useless, and the technology of so many years did not seem to work in the face of the disease.
2月29日凌晨，武汉市第一医院负压ICU隔离病房里，护士们给一位昏迷中的新冠肺炎病人翻身，避免长时间不动身体形成压疮。
In the early morning hours of Feb. 29, nurses in the ICU isolation ward of Wuhan's First Hospital turned over a comatose patient with Newcomotic Pneumonia to prevent pressure ulcers from remaining immobile for long periods of time.
中⻘报·中青网见习记者李强/摄保平安，庆余年除了救命，医生也要关照病人的心理。
Zhongyang newspaper, Zhongqing net trainee reporter Li Qiang / She BaoPing, celebrate the rest of the year in addition to saving lives, doctors should also care about the patient's psychology.
长期居住在武汉的同学告诉前来支援的老同学们，当地人有个特点，轴。
Long-term students living in Wuhan told the students came to support the old students, the local people have a characteristic, axis.
一位50多岁的阿姨让刘野感受到了这种“轴”。
An aunt in her 50s let Liu feel the "axis."
她是刘野收治的第一批患者，一开始对医院的条件并不满意，晚上还能听到正在施工的声音。
She was one of the first patients to be admitted to Liu No. At first, she was not satisfied with the hospital conditions.
刚见面，她一下子甩给医生一连串的问题：我什么时候能见家人？我的病什么时候能好？你们这是什么医院？怎么是这样的？你们能给我用什么药？“说到底还是担心治疗得不到保障。
As soon as she met, she threw a series of questions at the doctor: When can I see my family? When will I get well? What kind of hospital are you? How? What kind of medicine can you give me?
”解释了半天才让阿姨打消顾虑。
It took auntie a long time to explain.
刘野告诉这位阿姨，前来支援的每一位医生在当地能独当一面的，有的平时都一号难求，现在专门来治疗，大家不用担心。
Liu told the aunt that the support of each doctor in the local self-care, some ordinary times are difficult to ask, now specialized treatment, you do not have to worry.
现在你前面的治疗已经挺好的了，后续咱们就按部就班地治就行。
Now that the treatment in front of you is all right, let's do it step by step.
九十九步都过来了，就差最后一哆嗦了。
Ninety-nine steps came, and the last shudder was left.
医生首先要给病人信心。
Doctors should give their patients confidence first.
方庆说，之前可能更多的任务是救命，现在既要提高治愈率，也要关注病人的情绪。
Fang said that before the task may be more life-saving, now both to improve the rate of cure, but also to pay attention to the mood of patients.
不久前，武汉第七医院的48位病人收到了一份暖心早餐，护士亲手熬制的小米粥。
Not long ago, 48 patients at Wuhan's Seventh Hospital received a warm breakfast of millet porridge cooked by nurses themselves.
原来，病毒感染会引起口腔继发性感染，很多病人患上口角炎、唇炎、溃疡、口角疱疹，到了病程中期，吃不下盒饭，喉咙也痛。
Originally, viral infections can cause secondary oral infections, many patients suffer from keratitis, lip inflammation, ulcers, herpes mouth, to the middle of the disease, eat boxed rice, throat pain.
一次查房时，有护士发现患者周爹爹默默流泪，情绪低落。
A room inspection, a nurse found that the patient's father quietly tears, depressed.
询问后才知道，患者肠胃不佳，胃口差、频频恶心呕吐。
Only after the inquiry, patients with stomach trouble, poor appetite, frequent nausea and vomiting.
周爹爹说，自己隔离治疗，家人不在身边，不太习惯医院的饮食，就想喝上一碗热乎乎的粥。
Daddy Zhou said, his isolation treatment, his family is not around, not accustomed to the hospital diet, just want to drink a bowl of hot porridge.
这个病区是平均年龄65岁的老人，“你想，发烧的时候喝口热粥该是多么舒服的一件事。
The sick area is an elderly person with an average age of 65. "You think it would be nice to have a hot porridge when you have a fever.
”可是如果在医院食堂里煮，送到病人手里都凉了，而且当时后勤力量确实不足。
But it was cold in the hospital cafeteria, in the hands of the patients, and there was a real shortage of logistics.
方庆跟护士长提议，在病房里煮些小米粥，让他们随时都能喝到。
Fang Qing and the head nurse proposed to cook some millet porridge in the ward so that they could drink it at any time.
于是，负责物资配送的人从家里带来一个电饭煲，再加上爱心人士捐赠的小米，就这样，热乎乎的粥送到了病人嘴边。
So the person in charge of the material distribution brings a rice cooker from home, plus the millet donated by the loving people, so the warm porridge is delivered to the patient's mouth.
病人吃得下饭，也就慢慢挨过来了。
As soon as the patient was able to eat, he slowly came through.
因为居家感染的多，病区里还有5对夫妻，都是六七十岁的婆婆爹爹。
Because the home infection is many, the sick area also has 5 couples, are all sixty-seven years old mother-in-law's father.
情人节的时候，方庆想了点子，给爹爹准备了鲜花，让他们送给老婆。
On Valentine's Day, Fang thought of an idea and gave his father flowers to give to his wife.
平时很少表达爱意的老人也玩了一把浪漫，有位老爷子录了视频说，“等我出院了，老婆我一定带你去欧洲，我们从上海坐轮船去日本看樱花。
"When I get out of the hospital, my wife and I will take you to Europe. We will take a ship from Shanghai to Japan to see cherry blossoms.
”“病房隔绝的是病毒，不隔绝爱。
"" The ward was isolated from viruses, not from love.
”两位病人同一天过生日，医生护士们纷纷送贺卡、画画、写诗。
The two patients celebrated their birthday the same day, and doctors and nurses sent cards, drew pictures and wrote poems.
方庆写了一句：保平安，庆余年。
Fang Qing wrote a sentence: keep safe, celebrate the rest of the year.
对重症病人来说，插管、上呼吸机、进入ICU是一段恐怖的记忆，如果病人的心智不够强大，即便出院，也会在心里留下很大创伤。
Intubation, ventilator and access to the ICU are horrible memories for critically ill patients, and can leave scars if they are not mentally strong enough.
方庆说，我们想让病房变得不那么沉闷，灾难永远都是一时的，但人还是要活一辈子。
'We want to make the ward less dreary, 'Mr. Fang said.' Disaster is always temporary, but people still have to live their lives. '
2月29日凌晨，武汉市第一医院负压ICU隔离病房里，一位进行了气管插管的新冠肺炎病人，大部分时间都处于昏迷状态。
In the early morning hours of Feb. 29, a patient with New Crown Pneumonia underwent a trachea intubation in the ICU isolation ward of Wuhan's First Hospital, most of the time unconscious.
为了防止管道压在病人身上，护士用手套吹了一个气球，放在病人枕边，预防压疮。
To prevent the tube from pressing on the patient, the nurse blew a balloon with gloves and placed it next to the patient's pillow to prevent pressure ulcers.
为了调节气氛，气球上画了一张笑脸，写着“加油”二字。
To adjust the atmosphere, the balloon painted a smiling face, wrote "refueling" the word.
中⻘报·中青网见习记者李强/摄一个不少地安全回去最靠近危险的医生背后也有一道堤坝，在医院负责感染控制的许朝晖就是他们的保护者之一。
Li Qiang, a trainee journalist from Zhongyang Daily, is one of the protectors of a dam behind the nearest doctor who is in charge of infection control in the hospital.
从老家回到单位，再到支援武汉，不到24个小时，他辗转三地。
From his hometown back to work, to support Wuhan, less than 24 hours, he toss and turn three places.
1月24日，许朝晖还在安徽庐江县老家，5个月前，父亲做了食管癌切除手术，他打算今年陪父母在家过年。
On January 24, Xu Chaohui, who is still in his hometown of Lujiang county in Anhui province, was due to undergo a resection of esophageal cancer five months ago and plans to spend the New Year at home with his parents.
凌晨三点多，许朝晖接到了单位电话，武汉需要支援。
More than three in the morning, Xu Chaohui received a telephone unit, Wuhan needs support.
常年做感染控制的许朝晖心里明白，疾病的传染性非常强，还有一定的死亡率。
Years of infection control Xu Chaohui understand that the disease is very infectious, there is a certain mortality rate.
过年期间封城这种事情，历史上从来没有过。
There has never been such a thing as the closure of cities during the Spring Festival.
挂断电话，他立马订了合肥飞往西安的机票。
Hanging up, he booked a flight to Xi'an from Hefei immediately.
尽管平时一年才能和儿子见一面，73岁的父亲也支持，“养兵千日用兵一时，儿子能被国家用得上，也挺欣慰的。
Even though it is usually a year before he meets his son, the 73-year-old father also supports the idea that a son can be used by the state for his military service.
”临行前，父亲叮嘱他，保护好自己，给国家做贡献的时候一定不能怂。
Before he left, my father told him not to lose him because he was protecting himself and contributing to the country.
许朝晖还在飞机上，另一头，妻子在西安已经给他准备好了行囊，换洗衣服、日用品、脸盆，收拾完毕开车到机场等他。
Xu is still on the plane. At the other end, his wife has prepared a bag for him in Xi'an, changing his clothes, daily necessities, washbasins, and driving to the airport to wait for him.
中午11点多飞抵西安，没来得及回家看两个孩子，许朝晖就立刻带着背囊赶往单位。
At noon more than 11: 00 fly to Xi'an, did not have time to go home to see the two children, Xu Chaohui immediately took back bags to work.
那晚，单位给大家多做了几个菜，准备了一顿丰盛的晚餐，领导在饭堂给许朝晖和同行的伙伴们送行。
That night, the unit made a few more dishes for you, prepared a sumptuous dinner, led Xu Chaohui in the dining hall to see off his companions.
妻子让他留点肚子，她偷偷从家里赶来，带了半只鸡，在许朝晖的单人宿舍里，两人也算一起吃了顿年夜饭。
His wife asked him to save some belly, she secretly from home, with half a chicken, in Xu Chaohui's single dormitory, they also ate together dinner.
晚上11点58分，医疗队准时到达武汉。
At 11.58 p.m., the medical team arrived in Wuhan on time.
空无一人的感觉，让许朝晖一时没回过神，“这个城市真的安静下去了”。
Empty feeling, let Xu Chaohui did not return to God for a while, "the city really quiet down."
但他并没有特别紧张，到了酒店，仍然有服务人员接待，这说明最起码秩序是稳定的。
But he was not particularly nervous. When he arrived at the hotel, there were still attendants, which showed that order was stable at the very least.
对一名疾控工作者来说，一个地方能否有序运行，指令能否落地十分重要，这意味着，最关键的任务——隔离，可以落实，情况依然可控。
For a disease control worker, the order of a place and the landing of a command are important, which means that the most critical task - isolation - can be performed and the situation remains manageable.
作为最早一批支援武汉的部队医生，他记得 “打胜仗，零感染”是出发前领导的要求，不仅要完成救治任务，我们的医护人员也必须一个不少地带回去，二者同等重要。
As one of the first army doctors to support Wuhan, he remembers that "winning the battle, zero infection" is the requirement of the leader before departure.
许朝晖负责后半部分，他要把很多工作做在前头。
Xu Chaohui is in charge of the second half, he wants to do a lot of work in the front.
来武汉之后的第一件事就是对武昌医院的医护培训。
Wuhan after the first thing is to Wuchang Hospital medical training.
他说，个人防护必须严格按照标准流程走，这是对自己生命的负责，也是对团队负责任。
Personal protection, he said, must follow strict standard procedures and be responsible for one's own life, as well as for the team.
过不了关，坚决不能上岗。
Can not pass, resolutely unable to take office.
防护服使用不规范，就反复穿脱练习。
The use of protective clothing is not standardized, repeatedly wear out of practice.
在武汉当地一家医院工作的龚玖瑜听说老同学许朝晖来了，觉得他可能遇到物资困难、吃的不习惯的问题，便主动联系他。
Gong Yu, who worked in a local hospital in Wuhan, heard that the old classmate Xu Chaohui had come.
许朝晖回复，吃得还行。
Xu Chaohui recovered and ate well.
龚玖瑜怕他客气，就主动点外卖，送去几盒酸奶、泡面顶一顶。
Gong Yu was afraid of his politeness, on the initiative to order take-out, sent a few boxes of yogurt, foam top.
不过，除了忘记带上剃须刀的充电器，许朝晖在生活物资上确实没什么问题，“因为大家都戴着口罩，所以没人知道我胡子长了多长。
But apart from forgetting to wear a razor charger, Xu had no problem with his supplies. "Nobody knows how long my beard grows because everyone is wearing a mask.
”第二批救援队来时，同事也捎来了他的充电器。
His charger was also brought in by his colleagues when the second rescue team arrived.
其实，最大的困难还是缺医疗物资。
In fact, the biggest difficulty is the lack of medical supplies.
刚到武昌医院时，遮挡喷溅的防护面屏没有了，他们就采购了一批3毫米左右的透明软塑料软桌布，裁成一块一块的，打出一个点，后盖用绳子穿进去，额头接触的地方贴上软泡沫软胶，自制面屏。
When they first arrived at Wuchang Hospital, they purchased a batch of transparent soft plastic tablecloth of about 3 millimeters, cut into pieces, made a point, the back cover pierced with rope, the place where the forehead touched was plastered with soft foam and a self-made face screen.
在刘野到达援助医院的同一天，许朝晖也结束了武昌医院的改造培训工作，指导一家医院的施工监理，确保每个细节无误：哪些水龙头需要非接触，传递仓的负压怎么做、哪个角度安装紫外线消毒灯最精准、产生的医疗废物如何处理。
On the same day Liu No arrived at the hospital, Xu ended his rehabilitation training at Wuchang Hospital, directing the construction supervisor at a hospital to ensure that every detail was correct: which faucets needed non-contact, how to do the negative pressure of the conveyor, which angle to install the most accurate ultraviolet disinfection lamps and how to handle the generated medical waste.
此外，保证人流、物流和气流正向运作，即进了污染区，就不能再退回到潜在污染区，更不能退回到清洁区。
Moreover, ensuring that people, logistics, and air flow are moving forward, that is, into contaminated areas, does not return to potentially contaminated areas, much less to clean areas.
他要特别注意医护人员疲劳至极“智商掉线”的时候，备好紧急处理箱和详细的操作图示，一有需要，保证第一时间找到应急工具和方法。
He wants to pay special attention to the "intelligence quotient drop" when the health care staff, prepared the emergency box and detailed operation diagram, as soon as the need to ensure that the emergency tools and methods.
正因有了感控人员的严格把关，才让直接接触病人的医生有底气说出，“只要做好了三级防护就不怕。
Because of the strict guard of the sentinel personnel, only then lets the doctor who is in direct contact with the patient have the courage to say, "As long as the three-tier protection is not afraid.
”彼时，负责重症的、感控的、物资的医生同学虽然可能就在一家医院，但谁也不知道距离对方或许只有一墙之隔。
At the time, the doctors and students in charge of the serious, emotional, and supplies might be in a hospital, but no one knew that there might be only one wall between them.
直到2月中旬，刘野在领物资时，意外撞见了15年没见的老同学金鑫。
Until mid-February, Liu No in the material, accidentally bumped into the 15-year-old classmate Jinxin.
原来，几乎在刘野到达的同时，金鑫也跟随近170人的医疗队从南京赶来，他负责受援助医院的医疗后勤保障。
Originally, almost in Liu No's arrival, Jin Xin also followed a medical team of nearly 170 people from Nanjing, he was in charge of the medical logistics of the assisted hospital.
刚来的第一周，金鑫每天只能睡三四个小时。
In the first week, Jinxin could sleep only three or four hours a day.
今天的耗材、药品用完了，第二天如果不到位，当天的医疗工作可能就要停工。
Today's supplies, drugs used up, if the next day does not arrive, the day's medical work may be stopped.
他需要的物资，时常在凌晨一两点时送达，得立刻卸车，装进库房。
The supplies he needed, which were often delivered at one or two in the morning, had to be unloaded immediately and put into the storeroom.
受援助医院有1000张床位，每天大约有30箱防护服运来，一箱50件，再加上口罩，上万件的物资在这里被快速消化，一个10吨的氧气罐只能保证援助医院的病人一天的用氧量，物资还是紧巴巴。
With 1,000 beds, about 30 crates of protective clothing and 50 boxes of masks a day, and tens of thousands of items are quickly digested here, a 10-ton oxygen tank can only keep patients in hospital supplied with oxygen for a day and supplies are tight.
许久不见，刘野甚至不相信金鑫已满头白发。
Not for a long time, Liu did not even believe that Jinxin has gray hair.
2月18日晚，湖北省武汉市武昌区，一辆载满乘客的大巴车从二环路上驶过。
On the night of February 18 in Wuchang district of Wuhan, Hubei Province, a bus carrying a large number of passengers passed on the Second Ring Road.
中青报·中青网记者 李隽辉/摄吃着肉夹馍成长的同学去帮“热干面”没有人主动说自己来了武汉。
Zhongqing Newspaper Zhongqing Pao Li meaningful Hui / students growing up with steamed meat buns to help "hot dry noodles" no one volunteered to come to Wuhan.
比如许朝晖，直到有同学看见海报上的照片才知道。
Such as Xu Chaohui, until some students see the poster on the photo only to know.
一些受援助医院开放医护信息的时候，群里才有了偶遇同学的消息，大家的秘而不宣才被打破，那时一搜罗发现，已有七八个人都在武汉了。
When some of the assisted hospitals opened up medical information, the group met students by chance, the secret was only broken, then a search found that seven or eight people have been in Wuhan.
最让龚玖瑜意外的是，自己远在乌鲁木齐的闺蜜也来了。
The most surprising thing for Gong Yu is that she is far in Urumqi boudoir also came.
大学时，俩人是亲密无间的室友。
In college, they were intimate roommates.
来之前，闺蜜问她，武汉现在是什么气候，要带什么衣服？闺蜜从新疆来支援武汉的一家医院，龚玖瑜说，武汉与乌鲁木齐两地甚至还有时差，真感谢他们千里迢迢来加入战斗。
Before coming, she asked her what the climate was like in Wuhan and what clothes she would take with her.Gong Jiu came from Xinjiang to support a hospital in Wuhan, where Gong Jiu said Wuhan and Urumqi even have jet lag and thank them for coming all the way to join the battle.
张宁医生的朋友圈（受访者供图）在武汉本地的张宁为自己的同学骄傲，毕业后好几次，他邀请同学来家乡玩，但工作忙得连轴转，一直也没人来过，这次大家纷纷请战。
Dr. Zhang Ning's circle of friends (respondents to the picture) in Wuhan Zhang Ning proud of his classmates, after graduation several times, he invited his classmates to play in his hometown, but the work was too busy, has never come, this time everyone is invited to fight.
他们说，“共同吃着肉夹馍成长起来的兄弟姐妹，一起去帮‘热干面’。
"They said," together to eat the broth growing up brothers and sisters, together to help 'hot dry noodles'.
”目前，全国已有4万多名医务人员赶赴武汉，张宁的同学们就是这四万分之一。
At present, more than 40,000 medical personnel have rushed to Wuhan, and Zhang Ning's classmates are one in 40,000.
他们上学时所在的二大队曾经是光荣的张华大队。
The second brigade where they went to school was once a glorious brigade of Zhang Hua.
1982年，24岁的第四军医大学学员张华，因救助老人溺粪牺牲，这在当时掀起了一场社会大讨论：大学生舍命救老农民，值不值？张宁说，这件事对那时的青年人影响非常大。
In 1982, Zhang Hua, a 24-year-old cadet at the Fourth Military Medical University, died trying to save old people's dung, sparking a huge social debate: college students gave their lives to save old farmers, which was worthless, Zhang said.
2000级二大队的同学的入学第一课就是有关张华的教育课：危难的时候，要挺身而上。
The first lesson of the second class in the year 2000 is about Zhang Hua's education class: in times of danger, stand up.
几乎每一届的二大队都有荣誉傍身，包括后来的华山抢险。
Almost every class of the second brigade have honor and body, including later Huashan rush.
龚玖瑜记得，“他们手拉着手，站在悬崖边，挡着从上面滚落下来的群众，那时如果有一个人松手，大家就都垮了。
For Gong Yu, "For the sake of holding hands, they stand at the edge of a cliff and block the crowds rolling down from above.
”二大队五年一届，上一届毕业的师兄给下一届刚入学的同学当班长，言传身教，如接力棒般，将荣誉用行动传承下来。
"The second brigade every five years, the last graduates of the elder brother to the next freshman class squad leader, such as the baton, the honor passed down with the action.
但模范不仅是称号，也意味着更多的责任。
But a model is not only a title, it also means more responsibility.
这个集体被更加严格地要求，接受更加严格的训练。
The group has been made more demanding and disciplined.
五年下来，他们在一起吃过苦、受过训的经历中结成更加深厚的情谊。
After five years of suffering and training together, they developed a deeper bond.
一位超声科的同学1月底也来到武汉一线。
An ultrasound department student also arrived in Wuhan at the end of January.
此前，他已被批准，今年3月从部队转业，自主择业。
Previously, he had been approved to rejoin the army in March and choose his own career.
但现在，他仍然义无反顾地来了。
But now he was still looking back.
在他们心里，这是致敬前辈的时刻。
In their hearts, it was a time to honor their predecessors.
20年后，这些少年已经成为中国医生的中流砥柱。
Twenty years later, these teenagers have become a mainstay of Chinese doctors.
有的已是科室主任，有的当上了高校博导，有的参与了汶川地震救援，有的去过援非抗击埃博拉病毒。
Some have been section directors, some have become university guidance, some have participated in Wenchuan earthquake relief, some have been to Africa to fight Ebola.
接到疫情任务时，他们毫不犹豫地说，“职责所在”“我们不上谁上” “ 我们顶得上去”。
When asked about the outbreak, they did not hesitate to say, "Where is the duty" "We can't go up."
3月7日下午，武汉客厅方舱医院外，几名新冠肺炎患者走出医院准备乘车转入雷神山医院。
March 7 afternoon, Wuhan living room outside the square cabin hospital, several patients with new crown pneumonia out of the hospital ready to be transferred to Lui Shenshan Hospital.
当日上午，武汉客厅方舱医院25人治愈出院，下午59人转到雷神山医院。
That morning, Wuhan living room Fang cabin hospital 25 people cured discharged, 59 people transferred to Lei Shenshan Hospital in the afternoon.
随着最后一位患者转出，武汉客厅方舱医院患者“清零”。
With the last patient turned out, Wuhan living room square cabin hospital patients "clean zero."
中青报·中青网记者 赵迪/摄同学群把天南海北的他们再次连系在一起。
Zhongqing Newspaper Zhongqing Net reporter Zhao Di / Photographer Group linked them again.
在群里，大家讨论的除了疫情还是疫情。
In the group, we were talking about an epidemic as well as an epidemic.
他们分享最新的资料和数据，互相提供专业经验。
They share up-to-date information and data and provide each other with professional experience.
新药研发试验情况，大家一块讨论。
The new drug research and development experiment, everybody discuss together.
临床一线的人没时间查资料，后方的同学就主动帮着找文献。
Clinical line of people do not have time to check the data, the students on the rear actively help to find literature.
“不止是我们的同学群，全国的医生同学群可能都是这样。
"It's not just our school population. It's probably the same across the country.
”刘野说，我希望能够尽快有一个好消息出来。
'I hope to have good news as soon as possible, 'Mr. Liu said.
其实，刘野在武汉有过好消息。
In fact, Liu No has good news in Wuhan.
2月21日，刘野在战疫一线度过了一个特别的38岁生日，这天，也是他入党宣誓的日子。
On February 21, Liu spent a special 38th birthday on the front line of the epidemic, the day he took the oath of office.
至今未婚的刘野在同学里可能是独一份。
So far unmarried Liu No may be the only one among his classmates.
同学们形容这个东北男孩帅气、幽默、阳光。
Students described the Northeast boy as handsome, humorous and sunny.
可在刘野自己眼里，生活中的他一直没有军人的那种“板正”。
Can be in Liu No's own eyes, in life he has not been the kind of military "straight."
党员在他心目中是“高大上”的。
Party members are tall in his mind.
毕业后，他一直都觉得自己还有些差距。
After graduation, he always felt that he still has some gap.
“还有差距，就不要给党员拖后腿”，抱着这种想法，刘野慢慢成了院里“头疼的”大龄单身没入党男青年。
"There is still a gap, do not give party members delayed," holding this idea, Liu No slowly became a "headache" in the courtyard "headache" single did not join the party young men.
从长春出发前，刘野交给医务处主任一份入党申请书。
From Changchun departure, Liu No to the Director of Medical Services a membership application.
交完暗暗告诉自己，终于可以申请入党了。
After surreptitious tell oneself, can apply to join the party finally.
在武汉期间，他还向党组织发去了自己的战地日记。
While in Wuhan, he also sent his own field diary to the Party organization.
这天完全是个巧合，宣誓现场没有人提起他的生日。
It was a complete coincidence that no one had spoken of his birthday.
晚上7点多，宾馆送来一碗面，一根到底的长寿面，刘野全吃了，一点儿汤底也没剩，感觉很温暖。
More than 7: 00 p.m., the hotel sent a bowl of noodles, a long-lived face to the end, Liu all ate, a little soup also left, feeling very warm.
两年前的春天，刘野曾登上蛇山山顶，站在黄鹤楼眺望远处的长江大桥，江水奔流不息。
Two years ago this spring, Liu No climbed the top of Snake Mountain and stood at the Yellow Crane Tower overlooking the Yangtze River Bridge in the distance.
再来武汉，却如赴战场。
Again to Wuhan, but as if to the battlefield.
决心书上，刘野写了16个字：首战用我，用我必胜，兵锋所指，一往无前。
In the resolve book, Liu wrote 16 words: the first battle with me, with my victory, pointed out that the forward.
中国青年报·中国青年网出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
China Youth Daily & amp; China Youth Net & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
十个医学生的武汉“同学会”。
Wuhan "fellow society" of ten medical students.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "十个医学生的武汉“同学会”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "共同吃着肉夹馍成长起来的兄弟姐妹，一起去帮“热干面”。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Eating my brother and sister, who grew up together, to help with the hot, dry noodles.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
