武汉一线医生详解新冠：对重症病人的损害像“SARS+艾滋病”。
Wuhan first-line doctors detailed the new crown: serious patients like the damage like "SARS + AIDS."
健闻吴靖。
Hear Wu Jing.
八点健闻                      。
Eight good news.
八点健闻。
Eight good news.
看得懂的健康专业新闻。
Understandable health professional news.
一些看似忽然病情恶化的病人，实际上是经历过一段时间的慢性缺氧。
Some patients who seem to have suddenly deteriorated actually experience a period of chronic hypoxia.
部分年轻人的缺氧状态很难被觉察。
The lack of oxygen in some young people is hard to detect.
早期各大医院对新冠病毒并不了解，认为呼吸科、急诊科和感染科的医生足矣，并不清楚它对人体其它器官的危害。
Early hospitals did not know about the new crown virus and believed that doctors in respiration, emergency and infection departments were sufficient.
ICU医生则不同，在治疗中更侧重把病人当一个整体考虑。
ICU doctors, by contrast, focus more on the patient as a whole in their treatment.
和SARS不同，部分新冠危重症出院病人的肺功能损伤很厉害，免疫系统也几乎全被摧毁，“像SARS加艾滋病”。
Unlike SARS, some critically ill patients with newly released crowns suffered severe lung function damage, and their immune systems were almost completely destroyed, "like SARS plus AIDS."
2月27日，彭志勇发现，自己所在的ICU科室，16个床位，竟然第一次出现了2个空床。
On February 27, Peng Zhiyong found that his own ICU department, 16 beds, actually appeared for the first time two empty beds.
彭志勇是武汉大学中南医院重症医学科主任，从1月6日接收第一个新冠病人开始，在ICU病房里一待就是两个多月。
Peng Zhiyong, director of severe medicine at Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital, spent more than two months in the ICU ward after receiving his first new crown patient on January 6.
紧接着，不断有床位空了出来，有病人进来，有病人出院，到3月9日晚，ICU还保持着3张空床的记录。
Then, beds became vacant, patients came in, patients were discharged, and by the night of March 9, the ICU had three empty beds.
而此前，所有定点医院的重症监护室都是满的，不断有医院打电话，说要送危重病人进来，等待的名单很长很长。
Previously, all the intensive care units in the designated hospitals were full, and there were long waiting lists for calls from hospitals to bring in the critically ill.
从3月初开始，转入中南医院的病人，已不再是危重症病人。
Since the beginning of March, patients transferred to the South-Central Hospital are no longer critically ill.
那些现在还留在中南医院ICU的病人，大多是1月发病，从各个医院转来，一直没有康复的病人。
Most of the patients who are still in ICU in the South-Central Hospital became ill in January and were transferred from various hospitals without recovering.
这一批病人，已经错过了最好的救治时机，他们的病情加重，不知道有多少还能活下来。
This group of patients, has missed the best opportunity for treatment, they are more serious, do not know how much can survive.
中南医院在这次新冠救治过程中，成功率明显较高，病人死亡率低。
In this new crown treatment process, the success rate is higher and the mortality rate of patients is low.
到目前为止，彭志勇估算，中南医院ICU死亡率在20%左右，高出平均水平不少。
So far, Peng Zhiyong estimates that the mortality rate of ICU in the south-central hospital is about 20%, much higher than the average.
经历过2003年非典救治，这次从北京调往湖北省中西医结合医院的梁腾霄医生，起初专门负责医院接收的重症病人。
After going through SARS treatment in 2003, Dr. Liang Tengxiao, who was transferred from Beijing to Hubei Province combined with Chinese and Western medicine, initially took charge of the serious patients admitted to the hospital.
1月底，他所在的医疗队刚来武汉时，接收的病人全是重症病人，到了后期，和中南医院医生的感受一样，越来越多的病情较轻的患者进来。
By the end of January, when his team first arrived in Wuhan, all patients were critically ill, and by late January, as doctors at the Zhongnan Hospital had felt, more and more patients with mild illnesses were coming in.
“我们慢慢看到了这个疾病发展的全过程。
"We are slowly seeing the full course of the disease.
”彭志勇说。
'he said.
为什么年轻患者会忽然死亡新冠肺炎死亡病人，大多是有基础疾病的中老年人，但也有年轻的病人离世。
Why young patients die suddenly from pneumonia, mostly middle-aged and older people with underlying diseases, but also young patients die.
为何一些年轻的病人也会扛不住，这是人们普遍存在的一个疑点。
Why some young patients can't carry it is a common question.
35岁的李文亮，29岁的夏思思，这两位年轻医生的去世，引起了公众的广泛关注。
The death of 35-year-old Li Wenliang, 29-year-old Xia Si-si, has drawn widespread public attention.
2月23日去世的夏思思，年仅29岁，生前是武汉协和江北医院的医生。
Xia Sisisi, 29, died on February 23 and was a doctor at Wuhan Concorde Jiangbei Hospital.
她一月中旬发病，在自己的医院治疗，因病情恶化于2月7日转入中南医院ICU，彭志勇参与了她的救治过程。
She developed symptoms in mid-January, was treated in her own hospital and was transferred to the ICU of the Central South Hospital on 7 February due to deteriorating conditions. Pang Zhiyong participated in her treatment.
夏思思和李文亮是在同一天——2月7日——心脏骤停。
The same day, Feb. 7, Xiaxis and Li Wenliang had a cardiac arrest.
李文亮当天上了ECMO，没有救治成功。
Li Wenliang went to ECMO that day, did not cure success.
夏思思紧急转入中南医院ICU后，上了ECMO，心脏复跳，但因为缺氧太厉害，脑部一直没有苏醒，一直处于脑死亡的状态，直到2月23日去世。
She was admitted to ECMO and had a heart attack, but her brain never recovered from the lack of oxygen until her death on February 23.
李文亮和夏思思都有过一度好转的过程，但突然病情加重。
Both Li Wenliang and Xiaxi have had a period of improvement, but suddenly got worse.
在梁腾霄一个多月以来救治病人的过程中，也遇见过这样的案例。
In Liang Tengxiao more than a month in the process of treating patients, also encountered such a case.
有一个病人，早上医生查房时感觉还好好的，但查房一结束，病人就停止了呼吸。
In one case, the doctor had a good morning check-up, but the patient stopped breathing as soon as the check-up was over.
“你没有想象到病人的情况会这么严重，但是病情却发展很快。
"You didn't expect the patient to be in such a serious condition, but it was developing rapidly.
”这是当时梁腾霄比较疑惑的一点。
This was the point where Liang Tengxiao was more doubtful.
在彭志勇的理解中，没有“心脏骤停”这一概念。
In Peng Zhiyong's understanding, there is no "cardiac arrest" concept.
在他看来，心脏停止之前，是有个过程的，只是因为前期并没有发现，尤其对于部分年轻人来说，缺氧的状态很难被觉察。
In his view, before the heart stopped, there was a process, only because the previous period had not been discovered, especially for some young people, the state of anoxia is difficult to detect.
年轻人的“代偿能力”很强。
Young people have a strong "compensatory capacity."
一些老年人，一缺氧，马上身体就有反应。
Some elderly people, a lack of oxygen, the body immediately responded.
但年轻人即使在很严重的缺氧状态下，看起来意识却很清醒，医生很难得出他们缺氧的判断。
But even under severe hypoxia, young people seem conscious, and it is difficult for doctors to judge their lack of oxygen.
实际上是因为他们体内有限的氧气，全用来保障最重要的器官如心脏和大脑，此时身体的其它部位都会处于缺氧的状态。
In fact, their limited oxygen is used to keep vital organs, such as the heart and brain, in check, while the rest of the body is deprived of oxygen.
身体其它部位缺氧会产生乳酸，全身都是酸性物质，导致人进入更加缺氧的恶性循环。
Hypoxia in other parts of the body produces lactic acid, which is acidic throughout the body, leading to a vicious circle of more oxygen deprivation.
“这个病有很多假象。
"There are many illusions about the disease.
”彭志勇谈到了检测血氧饱和度的一些问题。
Peng Zhiyong addressed some of the problems of measuring blood oxygen saturation.
之前医生们一直是用血氧检测仪夹着病人的手指，来看病人的血氧饱和度，但他认为，这个仪器看到的血氧饱和度是有问题的。
Doctors used to pinch a patient's finger with a blood oxygen detector to see how much oxygen the patient's blood is saturated, but he said the oxygen saturation he saw in the instrument was problematic.
“动脉血氧分压才是最重要的。
"Blood oxygen partial pressure is the most important thing.
”他说。
'he said.
动脉血氧分压是指动脉血中物理溶解的氧分子所产生的张力。
Blood oxygen partial pressure refers to the arterial blood oxygen molecules in the physical solution of the tension.
一些血氧饱和度指标正常的新冠病人，实际上氧分压只有30。
In some patients with normal blood oxygen saturation, oxygen partial pressure is only 30.
而在正常情况下，一个人的氧分压要达到60，才能正常的保证体内氧气供应。
Under normal circumstances, a person's oxygen partial pressure to reach 60, to ensure the normal supply of oxygen in the body.
了解血氧饱和度，用指夹式血氧监测仪就可以了。
To understand the oxygen saturation of blood, use finger clip blood oxygen monitor.
但要了解病人的氧分压，就需要抽血，检查血里面的氧气状况。
But to understand the patient's oxygen partial pressure, you need to take blood and examine the oxygen situation in the blood.
在彭志勇看来，正常人用血氧饱和度指标就够了，但是一些肺部受损的病人，就不能用血氧饱和度指标。
For Peng Zhiyong, a normal blood oxygen saturation index is enough, but in some patients with lung damage, blood oxygen saturation index cannot be used.
“如果查氧分压，很快会发现问题，如果心脏缺氧，就会反馈给血液，鼓励血液里的血红蛋白不断地把氧带到心脏，这是代偿机制。
"If you look at oxygen partial pressure, you quickly find that if the heart is hypoxic, it feeds back into the blood, encouraging the blood hemoglobin to constantly bring oxygen to the heart, which is the compensation mechanism.
但根本问题还是缺氧。
But the fundamental problem is lack of oxygen.
”在ICU病房，检测病人是否氧气充足是用氧分压的方式；但在普通病房，用的只有血氧饱和度指标。
In ICU wards, patients were tested for oxygen adequacy by partial oxygen pressure; in the general ward, however, only blood oxygen saturation was used.
“很多医生在看到病人血氧饱和度正常的时候，很可能氧分压已经很低了，等发现时，已经太晚了。
"A lot of doctors see that when a patient's blood oxygen saturation is normal, it's probably very low, and by the time they find out, it's too late.
”彭志勇说。
'he said.
一些看似忽然病情恶化的病人，实际上是经历过一段时间的慢性缺氧。
Some patients who seem to have suddenly deteriorated actually experience a period of chronic hypoxia.
为何不同医院危重症死亡率差异明显？2月24日，华中科技大学同济医学院、武汉市金银潭医院、武汉大学人民医院等机构在《柳叶刀呼吸医学》发表了一项针对52名危重症患者的回顾性研究，这个研究在金银潭医院完成。
On Feb. 24, a retrospective study of 52 critically ill patients was published in The Lancet Respiratory Medicine by Tongji Medical College of Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Jintan Hospital of Wuhan City and People's Hospital of Wuhan University.
截至1月26日，金银潭医院52名危重症患者的死亡率达61.5%。
As at 26 January, the mortality rate of 52 critically ill patients at the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital stood at 61.5 per cent.
而中南医院ICU收治的危重症患者，死亡率仅在20%左右。
The death rate of critically ill patients treated by ICU in Zhongnan Hospital was only about 20%.
在时间上几乎同期的病人临床结果，为何死亡率差异明显？早在1月2日，武汉市各大医院都应上级要求派驻医生到金银潭医院。
As early as January 2, all major hospitals in Wuhan sent their doctors to Gold and Silver Pool Hospital at the request of their superiors.
医生大多是感染科和呼吸科医生。
Doctors are mostly infectionists and respiratory doctors.
当时，上级要求，要以急诊科和感染科为主来做不明原因肺炎的救治。
At that time, the superior requested that the emergency department and infection department be the main treatment for unknown pneumonia.
以彭志勇为代表的重症科医生，并未被派驻到金银潭医院。
The intensive care unit, represented by Mr Pang Chi-yung, was not deployed to the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
另一位武汉市三甲医院的医生认为，早期各大医院对这一疾病并不了解，认为呼吸科、急诊科和感染科的医生足矣，并不清楚新冠肺炎对人体其它器官的作用。
Another doctor at Wuhan Sanjia Hospital said the disease was not well known in early hospitals and that doctors from respiratory, emergency and infection departments were sufficient.
而重症医学科的医生，长期以来救治危重病人，危重病人的特点是不只是某个器官遭到损伤，而是身体的整体系统、多个脏器受损，因此他们在治疗中更侧重把病人当一个整体考虑。
The doctors of severe medicine, who have treated critically ill patients for a long time, are characterized not only by damage to an organ, but also by damage to the whole system and multiple organs of the body, so they focus more on the patient as a whole in their treatment.
“在大家的医学学生生涯中，学的都是一样的，都要学病理科、生理课。
"In each student's medical career, they learn the same thing and take pathology and physiology classes.
但在以后的工作生涯中，各科的医生更侧重某个领域，一些基本的整体性指标在临床中用不到就忘记了，而ICU科的医生各个指标都会用到。
But over the rest of their working lives, physicians in each subject focus more on one area, and some basic holistic indicators are forgotten when used clinically, while ICU physicians use them.
”上述三甲医院的医生说道。
"said the doctor at the triple-A hospital.
2月底，对新冠肺炎死亡病人的病理解剖结果，证实了病人肺部痰液很多。
At the end of February, the pathologic findings of patients who died of Newcomial Pneumonia confirmed a high level of pulmonary sputum.
在此前一些定点医院的治疗过程中，许多医生认为新冠病人的肺部纤维化是最严重的问题，因为病人干咳的状态比较多，医生没有意识到肺部会有痰液的问题。
In previous visits to hospitals, many doctors considered pulmonary fibrosis to be the most serious problem in patients with the new crown, because the patient had more dry cough and the doctor was unaware that there was sputum in the lungs.
梁腾霄谈到：“尸检的结果对我们认识这个疾病是有帮助的。
"The results of the autopsy were helpful in our understanding of the disease," Liang said.
尸检结果一出来，我就跟团队讨论了，一开始没有意识到病人肺部会有很多这种粘稠的痰，我们认为以消化液为主，但是如果要是以痰为主的话，那相对来说治疗转机就大了，那就化痰。
As soon as the autopsy results came out, I discussed it with the team, not realizing at first that there would be a lot of this sticky phlegm in the patient's lungs. We thought it was digestive juice, but if phlegm was the main treatment, it was sputum.
”在新冠死亡病人病理解剖前，中南医院的重症医学团队就得出了和病理解剖几近一致的结论。
Before the pathologic autopsy of the new crown death patient, the intensive care team at the South-Central Hospital came to a near-unanimous conclusion with the pathology.
他们在救治新冠肺炎病人前期就做了纤维支气管镜，可以很清楚的看到肺部的情况。
They made fiberoptic bronchoscopy early in the treatment of patients with pneumonia in the new crown, you can clearly see the lung situation.
“很多病人我们都做了纤维支气管镜，把痰都吸干净了。
"A lot of patients we made fiberoptic bronchoscope and sucked up the sputum.
很多病人我们采取俯卧位，俯卧位很管用。
Many patients we take the prone position, prone position very useful.
根本用不到吸痰机，就能解决化痰的问题。
No spittoon is needed to solve the sputum problem.
”彭志勇说到。
'he said.
1月底2月初，全国各地的优秀医生都来援助金银潭医院，但救治情况没有得到明显改变。
At the end of January and the beginning of February, outstanding doctors from all over the country came to the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
“虽然不同的优秀团队进驻，但相互之间没有太多交流，各自独立工作，理念不同，在救治病人的整体策略和方向上并未达成一致的意见。
"Despite the presence of different teams of excellence, there is not much communication between them, working independently, with different philosophies, and there is no consensus on the overall strategy and direction of patient care.
”一位被派驻到金银潭医院援助的北方医院的护士说道。
"said a nurse assigned to the Northern Hospital, which provides assistance to the gold and silver pool hospital.
尸检显示，危重新冠肺炎像“SARS+艾滋病”最近一些新冠病人出院后，复查时核酸检测返阳的情况，引起了广泛关注。
New Crown Pneumonia (SARS + AIDS) New Crown Pneumonia (SARS + AIDS) Nucleic acid reexamination after recent discharge of some newly crowned patients has aroused widespread concern, autopsy revealed.
在中南医院、武汉市人民医院等一些医院，最早在12月下旬就已经发现感染新冠出院的医护人员存在复查时返阳的情况。
In some hospitals, such as Zhongnan Hospital and Wuhan People's Hospital, the cases of returning to the sun were found in late December at the earliest.
这种情况究竟是未治愈还是复发？多位医生认为，出院后核酸检测返阳的情况，不是复发，而是未治愈。
Is this condition uncured or relapsed? Many doctors believe that the condition of returning to positive nucleic acid testing after discharge is not a relapse, but an uncured condition.
这与新冠肺炎的特点有关。
This is related to the characteristics of new crown pneumonia.
尸检解剖结果出来后，一名参与尸检的医生透露，重症病人的肺功能损伤的很厉害，免疫系统也几乎全被摧毁。
After the autopsy, a doctor involved in the autopsy revealed that the patient's lung function had been severely damaged and that the immune system had been almost completely destroyed.
“SARS只攻击肺，不会伤害免疫系统；艾滋病只伤害免疫系统，新冠肺炎对危重症病人的损害，像SARS加艾滋病。
SARS attacks only the lungs and does not harm the immune system; AIDS only harms the immune system, and Newcrown Pneumonia harms critically ill patients like SARS and AIDS.
”上述医生说道。
'said the physician.
急性肺损伤是SARS病人死亡的主要原因，但是多器官衰竭是新冠病毒的重要死亡原因。
Acute lung injury is the leading cause of death in SARS patients, but multiple organ failure is an important cause of death.
彭志勇在尸检结果出来后，带领团队进行案例讨论，尸检的结果印证了他们在治疗过程中的一些猜测。
Peng Zhiyong led the team to a case discussion after the autopsy, which confirmed some of their suspicions during the treatment.
一些出院的重症病人，通过血象检测发现，他们的淋巴细胞指数没有恢复到正常水平，这意味着他们的免疫系统并没有完全恢复。
Some patients with severe cases discharged from the hospital were found to have failed to recover to normal lymphocyte indices through blood imaging, which meant that their immune systems had not fully recovered.
但是在目前的出院标准中，临床症状的消失，不包括血象检测的结果。
However, in the current discharge criteria, the disappearance of clinical symptoms, not including the results of blood imaging testing.
“一些出院时核酸检测是阴性的患者，免疫系统很差，并没有恢复，在出院后很容易返阳。
"Some patients who tested negative for nucleic acid at the time of discharge had a poor immune system that did not recover and could easily return to the sun after discharge.
”彭志勇说道。
"said Peng.
他担心的是，出院的病人可能会像乙肝病人一样，长期带病毒生存。
He worries that patients who are discharged from hospital may survive with the virus for as long as hepatitis B patients do.
“现在要考虑的是，这种带病毒生存的病人，是否具备传染性。
"The question now is whether this virus-positive patient is contagious.
”多位一线临床医生认为，之前所有的医疗资源集中的是新冠肺炎病人急性期的救治问题，当急性期的病人越来越少，重点将转向出院病人的管理问题。
A number of frontline clinicians believe that all previous medical resources have focused on the acute phase of treatment for patients with new crown pneumonia, and that when fewer patients are in acute phase, the focus will shift to the management of patients discharged from hospital.
“我们会随访一年，看新冠病人出院以后怎么变化的，病毒有没有传播性，周围的人有没有受影响。
"We will follow up for a year to see how the new crown patients changed after they were discharged from the hospital, whether the virus was contagious and whether those around them were affected.
”彭志勇说道。
"said Peng.
从这个角度讲，这场有关新冠肺炎的战役，远未结束。
In this sense, the battle over New Crown Pneumonia is far from over.
吴靖|撰稿微信号：1136352312王晨|统筹 责编微信号：2174127季敏华|责编微信号：janejiminhua我们尊重原创版权，未经允许请勿转载。
Writing microsignal: 1136352312; Wang Chen & # 124; Co-ordinated microsignals: 2174 127 & amp; Minhua & # 124; Blame microsignals: janejiminhua. We respect original copyright and do not reproduce it without permission.
授权转载郑琪 微信号:1281949389商务合作上海：leslee 13916263824北京：Jessie 13911125922线索爆料、意见反馈，加入核心读者社群请扫码联系健闻君让朋友们看到你也在看↓↓↓。
Authorized reprint of Zheng Qi microsignal: 1281949389 Commercial Cooperation Shanghai: Leslee 13916263824 Beijing: Jessie 13911125922 Tells burst of material, feedback, join the core reader community, please sweep the code to let your friends see you, too.
健闻吴靖。
Hear Wu Jing.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
已喜欢，对作者说句悄悄话。
Like it, whisper to the author.
发送给作者。
Send to author.
最多40字，当前共字。
Up to 40 words, currently in common.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉一线医生详解新冠：对重症病人的损害像“SARS+艾滋病”。
Wuhan first-line doctors detailed the new crown: serious patients like the damage like "SARS + AIDS."
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "八点健闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at eight.
var msg_title = "武汉一线医生详解新冠：对重症病人的损害像“SARS+艾滋病”";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "出院病人可能会长期带病毒生存。
var msg _ desc = & quot; discharged patients may have a long history of living with the virus.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="八点健闻";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; eight.
