火线 | 确保4万多医护人员“零感染”，有多难？——专访中央赴湖北指导组医疗组专家吴安华。
How difficult is it to ensure that more than 40,000 medical personnel have "zero infection"? - To interview Wu Anhua, a medical expert with the Hubei Guidance Team.
黄 祺。
WONG Qi.
新民周刊                      。
Xinmin Weekly.
新民周刊。
Xinmin Weekly.
深度和角度——这就是我们能做的。
Depth and angle - that's what we can do.
。
.
口述实录·火线建议将院感课“挤进”所有医本科的教学计划中，可以先给8-10个学时，避免以后再出现类似的惨痛的教训。
Oral Reported Fire suggested that the hospital sensory "into" all undergraduate teaching plans, can be given 8-10 hours, so as to avoid similar painful lessons in the future.
记者 | 黄 祺“到目前为止，4.2万人的医疗队无一人感染。
REPRESENTATIVE & # 124; & # 45; WONG & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
”3月9日，国务院联防联控机制召开新闻发布会，国家卫健委医政医管局监察专员郭燕红，公布了这一数据。
On March 9, 2008, the Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism of the State Council held a press conference.
郭燕红专员表示，在武汉，有一支感染控制的专家团队，他们有一项工作就是在每一支医疗队进入到工作岗位之前，专门对他们进行感染控制和防护工作培训，使他们能够做好防护，避免感染，最大限度降低感染风险。
In Wuhan, there is a team of infection control experts who train every medical team in infection control and protection to protect them from infection and minimize the risk of infection before they enter the workplace, said Commissioner Guo Yanhong.
全国各地支援湖北的4万多名医护人员，至今保持了“零感染”的纪录。
More than 40,000 medical personnel from all over the country have been assisted in Hubei province and have so far maintained a zero-infection record.
这个“0”背后，是湖北省截至3月5日，累计确诊病例67592例，累计治愈出院病例41966例等等庞大的数字。
Behind this "0" is the Hubei Province as of March 5, cumulatively confirmed 67,592 cases, cumulatively cured discharged cases 41966 and so on huge figures.
疫情早期，武汉市出现医务人员感染，最新公布的数据是，3000多名感染新冠肺炎的医护人员中，绝大部分是武汉当地医护人员，已经有十多名医护人员因感染新冠肺炎死亡。
The most recent figures released show that the overwhelming majority of the more than 3,000 new cases of pneumonia in Wuhan are local medical staff, and more than a dozen have died from pneumonia.
前有武汉当地医护人员大量感染的残酷教训，各地医疗队到达武汉后的医院内感染控制，成为头等大事。
Wuhan before a large number of local medical staff infected with the cruel lessons, local medical teams arrived in Wuhan after infection control, has become a top priority.
如果医护人员再出现感染情况，不仅会造成医疗救治力量的削弱，还会让医院里其他患者受到威胁。
Reinfection by health-care workers not only weakens medical care, but also puts other patients in the hospital at risk.
中南大学湘雅医院院感专家吴安华临危受命，1月21日从长沙出发，搭乘高铁逆行武汉，为的就是不让医护人员感染的情况再发生。
On January 21, Wu Anhua, a hospital resident expert at Xiangya Hospital in Zhongnan University, was ordered to take a high-speed train from Changsha to Wuhan.
作为较早到达武汉的中央赴湖北指导组医疗救治组成员之一，吴安华主任在武汉度过了最特殊的春节，迄今已经驻守武汉40多天。
Wu Anhua, one of the medical treatment group members who arrived in Wuhan earlier, has spent the most special Spring Festival in Wuhan, where he has been stationed for more than 40 days.
在武汉期间，吴安华做了近100场防护培训，覆盖医护人员超过1.4万余人。
During his stay in Wuhan, Wu Anhua conducted nearly 100 training sessions on protection, covering more than 14,000 medical personnel.
他曾创下一天7场培训会、讲7个多小时课的“个人纪录”，他和专家组一起确立的“先培训再上岗”策略在保证医护人员“零感染”中发挥了至关重要的作用。
He created a "personal record" of seven training sessions a day for more than seven hours of classes, and the "train-and-retrain" strategy, which he and the panel of experts have developed, has played a crucial role in ensuring that health-care workers are "zero-infection-free."
确保所有医疗队医护人员“零感染”有多难？3月8日上午，吴安华主任接受了《新民周刊》的专访。
How difficult is it for all medical staff to ensure zero infection? On the morning of March 8, Wu gave an interview to Xinmin Weekly.
城市是安静的医院里却如战场一般《新民周刊》：1月21日出发到武汉，走得很紧急吗？吴安华：武汉出现不明原因肺炎后，1月份，我们一直在做院感巡查工作。
The city is a quiet hospital, but like a battlefield New People's Weekend: Departing to Wuhan on January 21, is it urgent to go to Wuhan? Wu Anhua: In January, after the outbreak of unknown pneumonia in Wuhan, we were doing a sentinel inspection.
1月18日、19日我都在我们湖南省省内做医院的院感巡查。
January 18, 19 I do in our province of Hunan Province hospital sentinel inspection.
1月20日我接到国家卫健委通知，要求我去武汉，但不知道什么原因后来说不用去了，到了21日，又来通知，要求我们立即到武汉。
January 20, I received a notice from the National Health Commission, asked me to go to Wuhan, but I do not know why later said no need to go, on the 21st, came to inform us immediately to Wuhan.
《新民周刊》：去武汉之前对当地新冠肺炎救治的情况有哪些了解？吴安华：当时武汉已经有几百个确诊病例，增加的速度很快，1月20日，新冠肺炎被列为乙类传染病按甲类传染病管控，所以当时我就想情况应该是比较严峻了。
Wu Anhua: There were already hundreds of confirmed cases in Wuhan at that time, and the rate of increase was very fast. On January 20th, New Crown Pneumonia was classified as a Class A infectious disease, so I thought the situation would be more serious.
1月21日中午1点出发，一个多小时到武汉，后来几天我到武汉各处巡查。
January 21 at 1 noon departure, more than an hour to Wuhan, the next few days I visited Wuhan.
武汉外表看起来很安静，但是一到医院，就像个战场一样。
Wuhan looks quiet on the outside, but once in hospital, it is like a battlefield.
《新民周刊》：国家卫健委为何第一时间就派出了院感专家到武汉？吴安华：新冠肺炎是个新的传染病，首先要防止它在医院里扩散。
NEW MING WEEKLY: Why did the State Health Commission send a hospital expert to Wuhan first? Wu Anhua: New Crown Pneumonia is a new infectious disease, first of all to prevent its spread in hospitals.
当时我们看到已经有医务人员感染的报道了，院感工作的目的是既要保护病人，又要保护医务人员。
At the time, we had seen reports of infection by medical staff, and the hospital work was aimed at protecting both the patient and the medical staff.
2003年的非典中，医院内感染的情况非常严重，不少医护人员感染，有些患者也是在医院里被传染的。
In SARS in 2003, hospital infections were severe, with many health-care workers infected, some of them in hospitals.
病人太多难以维持正常的就医流程《新民周刊》：您到武汉第一任务是什么？吴安华：我们第一个任务是要制定医院内新冠病毒感染预防与控制的指南。
There are too many patients to maintain the normal process of medical treatment "Xinmin Weekly": What is your first task to Wuhan? Wu Anhua: Our first task is to develop guidelines for the prevention and control of nosocomial crown virus infection.
我20日到武汉，21日主要是和其他专家一起讨论指南的内容。
I came to Wuhan on the 21st and discussed the content of the guide with other experts.
那天工作到特别晚，差不多半夜才结束。
It was a particularly late day and it was almost midnight.
22日，这个指南就发布了，速度特别快。
On February 22, the guide was released, particularly fast.
《新民周刊》：指南的内容是不是针对新冠病毒来制定的？吴安华：在指南的基本要求里，我们提出了十点要求，到现在看我们当时考虑得还是比较全面的。
NEWSWEEK: Was the content of the guide designed for the new crown virus? Wu Anhua: In the basic requirements of the guide, we put forward a 10-point requirement, and now we think about it in a comprehensive way.
第一点讲的是预案和流程；第二点讲全员培训；第三点专门讲医护人员的防护；第四点讲关爱医护人员；第五点是要做好医院监测，包括医务人员的医院感染监测和病人的感染监测；第六点是要做好清洁消毒管理；第七点是加强患者就诊的管理；第八点是加强患者教育，因为当时就诊的人比较多；第九点是加强感染暴发的管理；第十点是加强医疗废物的管理。
The first relates to plans and procedures; the second to full-time training; the third to the protection of health-care personnel; the fourth to care for health-care workers; the sixth to clean and disinfect management; the seventh to strengthen patient care management; the eighth to strengthen patient education because more people were attending; the ninth to strengthen outbreak management; and the tenth to strengthen medical waste management.
《新民周刊》：疫情早期，要落实这些指南的要求，难吗？吴安华：当时发热病人增加太快了，已经不是我们常规看病就诊的流程。
NEWSWEEK: In the early days of the epidemic, was it difficult to meet the requirements of these guidelines? Wu Anhua: The number of feverish patients increased so fast that it was no longer a routine procedure for us to see a doctor.
所以这个时候我们院感指南中基本要求的第一点——流程管理就特别重要。
So this time our hospital sense of the basic requirements of the first point - process management is particularly important.
指南第二个方面讲到了重点部门的管理。
The second aspect of the guide deals with the management of priority sectors.
一个是发热门诊，发热门诊医护人员和患者要怎么做好个人防护。
One is the fever clinic, heating out-patient medical staff and patients to do a good job of personal protection.
一个是急诊科，一个是普通病区，还有一个是对于收治新冠肺炎患者的隔离病区的要求。
One is an emergency department, one is a common area, and another is a requirement for isolation areas for patients with Newcomial Pneumonia.
重点区域管理这四个方面要求特别重要。
These four aspects of focus area management are particularly important.
当时对新冠肺炎病毒的传播特点，其实了解还不多，所以我们提出标准预防加补充隔离措施，包括接触隔离、飞沫隔离，还有空气隔离这样一些措施。
Little was known about the spread of the new crown pneumonia virus at the time, so we proposed standard prophylaxis plus complementary isolation, including contact isolation, froth isolation, and air isolation.
医护人员的防护文件做出了特别强调。
Special emphasis is placed on the medical staff's protection documents.
医护人员必须要保持战斗力，不能减员。
The paramedics must remain effective and must not lose staff.
医护人员的个人防护，我们特别强调怎么样做好标准防护，也强调了高风险操作的时候需要特别注意什么。
Personal protection of health care workers, with special emphasis on how to do a good job of standard protection, but also highlighted when high-risk operations need special attention.
《新民周刊》：哪些措施是这次疫情中医护人员避免感染最有效的措施？吴安华：我们非常有针对性地提出了两个措施，第一个是要正确选择和佩戴口罩，第二个是手卫生，现在看，这两点仍然是最重要的，说明我们的指南有一定的前瞻性。
What are the most effective measures for health care workers to avoid infection in this epidemic? Wu Anhua: We have proposed two measures in a very targeted way, the first is to select and wear masks correctly, and the second is hand hygiene, which is still the most important thing to show that our guide is forward looking.
我们第一版院感指南到现在还没有更新，这说明当时考虑得比较周全，各方面情况都考虑到了。
Our first edition of the Sentinel Guide has not yet been updated, which shows that it was well thought out and taken into account in all respects.
《新民周刊》：除了制定指南，院感专家还要到各家医院去做现场的督导是吗？吴安华：是的，我们到医院去做调研，了解医院里面的病人收治的情况，包括发热门诊，也包括隔离病房，我们还到宾馆里面去看看医务人员的生活防护到底是不是做得到位。
Wu: Yes, we went to the hospital to do some research to find out how the patients were admitted to the hospital, including the fever clinic, and the isolation ward, and we went to the hotel to see if the medical staff's life protection was adequate.
中央指导组的医疗救治专家组里，有我和北京大学第一医院李六亿教授两名院感专家。
The Central Steering Group of the medical treatment team, I and the first hospital of Peking University Professor Li six million two hospital experts.
我们集体备课，课件在中国感染控制杂志公众号推出，全部分享给医疗队员，课后可以继续学习，课件共更新三次，浏览总量超过10万，说明很多人都关注院感与个人防护。
We prepared classes collectively and the courseware was released to the public of the Chinese Journal of Infection Control. All of them were shared with the medical team. After class, we could continue our study.
另外还有一组十多位院感专家，由国家卫健委直接派到武汉10家医院。
In addition, there is a group of more than a dozen hospital specialists, directly sent by the National Health Commission to Wuhan 10 hospitals.
各支医疗队中也有院感专家。
Sentinel specialists are also included in the various medical teams.
相对来说，院感专业人才还是太少，我们做得比较累。
Relatively speaking, the sense of professional talent is still too few, we do more tired.
目前看来的医务人员零感染，与各医疗队的院感人员、医务人员和管理人员的共同努力是分不开的，在新闻里大家也看到随队院感人员如何监督、指导医务人员做好防护工作。
At present, it seems that the zero-infection of medical personnel is inseparable from the joint efforts of hospital staff, medical staff and management of medical teams. In the news, we also see how the hospital staff can supervise and guide the medical staff to do a good job of protection.
所有医疗队必须先培训再上岗《新民周刊》：大年初一（1月25日），广东省和上海市派出的医疗队到武汉，您当时要做哪些工作？吴安华：我记得最早到武汉的医疗队有广东医疗队、上海医疗队、他们大概年夜饭都没吃就来武汉了 。
On January 25, medical teams from Guangdong Province and Shanghai came to Wuhan at that time.Wu Anhua: I remember that the earliest medical teams to Wuhan included the Guangdong Medical Team, the Shanghai Medical Team, and they came to Wuhan without any dinner.
从年初一开始我就再也没有休息过，最早培训的就是春节那天培训上海医疗队和广东医疗队。
From the beginning of the new year I have never had a rest, the earliest training is the Spring Festival Day training Shanghai medical team and Guangdong Medical Team.
所有医疗队必须先培训再上岗的建议就是我们院感专家组提出来的，后面我们感觉这是一个非常好的策略，因为这么多医疗队来支援武汉，如果不培训的话，院感控制会变得非常困难。
The suggestion that all medical teams should be trained and retrained was put forward by our Academy Panel, which felt that this was a very good strategy, as so many medical teams came to support Wuhan and it would be very difficult to control hospital feeling without training.
全国各地的医疗队，医疗队员来自不同科室，感染科的医生护士相对比较少。
Medical teams from all over the country come from different departments, and relatively few doctors and nurses work in infection departments.
很多医疗队的医护人员对于这样一种新的传染病防护是不熟悉的，内心难免恐惧。
Many medical staff are unfamiliar with such a new form of infectious disease protection, and fear is inevitable.
《新民周刊》：培训采取什么方式？吴安华：培训主要是讲课的方式，一场培训大概需要60-80分钟。
Wu Anhua: The training is mainly in the form of lectures, and it takes about 60-80 minutes for a training course.
最开始的时候是两个人讲，偶尔会一个人讲。
It started as a two-person speech, and then an occasional one.
后面支援武汉的医疗队多了，主要就是一个人讲。
Wuhan back to support the medical team more, mainly a person to speak.
1月27日那天，我早上8点出发，与传染病专家蒋荣猛主任一道，在武汉6地为6支省医疗队和1支国家医疗队做了6场岗前培训，接受培训的医疗队员有将近1000人，行程268公里，晚上11点才回到宾馆。
On January 27, I set out at 8 a.m. and, together with the infectious diseases expert, Director Jiang Rong Meng, I conducted six pre-service training sessions in Wuhan for six provincial medical teams and one national medical team, with nearly 1,000 medical personnel trained, covering 268 kilometres and returning to the hotel only at 11 p.m.
2月25日，我自己打破了自己的纪录，这天我一个人讲了7场课，培训了九支医疗队，讲课时间7个半小时，450分钟。
On February 25, I broke my own record by giving seven lectures and training nine medical teams for seven and a half hours and 450 minutes by myself.
我们开玩笑说，这一天培训，大概创造了全国院感培训一个教师讲课时间的纪录，和一个教授一天培训讲课时间的纪录。
We joked that this day of training had probably created a record of how long a teacher taught in the National Academy, and a record of how long a day of training lectures was given.
《新民周刊》：整个疫情过程中，您对院感控制是不是一直非常担忧？吴安华：医护人员救治压力非常大，大家很累，这个时候更容易感染。
Are you worried about hospital control all the way through the epidemic? Wu Anhua: Medical staff are very stressed out, we are very tired, this time is more susceptible to infection.
这种时候更需要注意执行院感管理的标准预防，预防医务人员感染。
At this time more attention should be paid to the implementation of hospital management standards of prevention, prevention of medical staff infection.
标准防护非常重要，就是我前面讲到的正确选择和佩戴口罩和手卫生。
Standard protection is very important, just as I mentioned earlier about the right choice and wearing masks and hand hygiene.
并不是说戴好口罩和做好手卫生做到就能百分之百地预防传染病，但做到这两点是最基本的，最基本的也就是最重要的。
This is not to say that wearing a mask and doing a good job in hand hygiene can prevent 100% of communicable diseases, but doing so is the most basic, basic and important thing.
戴口罩、手卫生看起来特别简单，但其实简单的事情最不简单。
Wearing masks and hand hygiene may seem simple, but the simple things are the most difficult.
比如说手卫生，大家讲的时候都说重要，但从实际操作来讲，不管是国内还是国外，手卫生都是难题。
Hand hygiene, for example, is important when you talk about it, but in practice, hand hygiene is a problem at home and abroad.
还有就是口罩，每次培训中，反复强调口罩的正确使用，我要花上10分钟的时间。
Then there is the mask, each time training, repeatedly stressed the correct use of masks, I will take 10 minutes.
医学生和医生都要补上“院感”这一课《新民周刊》：2003年非典疫情中，医院内感染是个很大的问题。
Medical students and doctors should fill in the "hospital feeling" lesson New People Weekly: In 2003 SARS epidemic, hospital infection was a big problem.
这些年国内院感水平有没有进步？吴安华：进步当然是有的，但没有我们预想的好。
Are there any improvements in the level of domestic courts in these yearsANHUA: Of course, progress has been made, but not as well as we had expected.
大家觉得经过SARS的洗礼之后，医院感染控制无论是从机制上还是人员上，应该可以从容地应对传染病疫情，但实际上应对还是没有那么好。
It is believed that after the baptism of SARS, the control of nosocomial infection should be able to deal with the epidemic in a leisurely manner, both institutionally and in terms of personnel.
SARS之后，我们还经历了禽流感、手足口病等等传染病，应该也受到了锻炼，但还是没有预想的好。
After SARS, we also experienced avian influenza, hand, foot and mouth disease and other infectious diseases, which should have been exercised, but not as well as expected.
当然客观上说新冠病毒传染性超过之前的传染病，疫情太猛烈。
Objectively, of course, the new crown virus is more contagious than previous infectious diseases, and the epidemic is too severe.
第二个我认为院感能力在各个专业之间不平衡。
Second, I believe that there is an imbalance in academic ability between majors.
比如感染科医生、呼吸科医生院感知识掌握得好一点，相对而言其他科的医生，耳鼻喉、眼科、外科等科室的医生，平常跟感染性疾病打交道比较少的，可能就没有感染科医生、呼吸科医生那么警惕性高，也不会像他们一样注意保护自己。
For example, infectious and respiratory doctors have a better sense of well-being. Doctors in other disciplines, such as otorhinolaryngology, ophthalmology, surgery, and others, who usually have less contact with infectious diseases, may not be as vigilant as infectious doctors or ventilators, and may not be as vigilant as they are in protecting themselves.
《新民周刊》：新冠肺炎疫情中还是有医护人员感染，未来如何避免这样的情况？吴安华：我特别建议在医学本科教育阶段，就要加入医院感染控制管理这门课，所有的医本科学生，无论是医疗、护理、口腔、儿科、公卫、药学等专业，只要是医学类本科，都要学习这方面知识。
How to avoid this in the futureWu: I particularly recommend that at the undergraduate level of medical education, we should take the course of Hospital Infection Control Management. All medical students, whether in medicine, nursing, dentistry, paediatrics, public health, pharmacy, etc., should study this knowledge as long as they are medical students.
不管是学临床医学的还是预防医学的，本科阶段都要进行医院感染控制的课程教育。
Whether in clinical medicine or preventive medicine, the undergraduate level of hospital infection control should be carried out curriculum education.
院感管理的一些基本的技能，本科的时候就要告诉医学生。
College management of some basic skills, undergraduate students have to tell medical students.
他们在毕业之后，进入医疗机构就可以用起来。
After graduation, they can use it when they enter a medical institution.
并不是说毕业之后医生就不需要培训了，还需要培训，但是他们至少有个基础。
It's not that doctors don't need training after graduation, they need training, but they have at least one foundation.
医学生毕业进入医院以后，大家都很忙，会把精力用在自己的专科上，很难很好地再学院感防控知识，所以我觉得这个事情一定要改革一下，将院感课“挤进”所有医本科的教学计划中，可以先给8-10个学时，避免以后再出现类似的惨痛的教训。
When medical students graduate and enter the hospital, they are very busy and will devote themselves to their own specialty. It is difficult to re-institute the knowledge of college control. Therefore, I think it is necessary to reform this matter, so we can "squeeze" the intuition into all the medical programs, we can give 8-10 hours to avoid similar painful lessons in the future.
《新民周刊》：院感在传染病防治中，到底有多重要？吴安华：院感的意思主要就是指预防和控制医院内的感染。
How important is hospital feeling in the prevention and control of infectious diseases? Wu Anhua: Hospital sense mainly means the prevention and control of infection in hospitals.
我们国家2006年发布的医院感染管理办法里面，做了明确的规定，医院感染管理是卫生行政部门、医疗机构和医务人员，针对医院感染、医源性感染及相关的危险因素进行的诊断、预防和控制活动，这是医院感染管理的定义。
In the Measures for the Management of Hospital Infections issued in 2006, it is clearly stipulated that the management of nosocomial infections is the diagnosis, prevention and control of nosocomial infections, iatrogenic infections and related risk factors, which is the definition of nosocomial infection management.
这次新冠疫情，再次证明了院控的重要性。
This new crowning epidemic once again proves the importance of hospital control.
院感工作一个是要预防病人感染，医院这个环境下，病人受到感染的机会是比较多的，比如手术、插管，再加上医院里有癌症病人、白血病病人等等，往往病人抵抗力比较低，容易感染各种疾病。
Hospital work is to prevent the infection of patients, the hospital environment, patients are more likely to be infected, such as surgery, intubation, plus the hospital patients, cancer, leukaemia patients, and so on, often the patients resistance is relatively low, prone to a variety of diseases.
在这样看似理所当然可能感染各种疾病的环境下，我们想什么办法，采取一些什么措施，减少危险因素，降低病人的感染发生率，这就是院感做的事。
This is what we think and what we can do to reduce risk factors and reduce the incidence of infection in patients in an environment where it seems logical to be exposed to a variety of diseases.
院感的另一个目标是保护医护人员。
Another goal of the hospital is to protect medical personnel.
这次新冠肺炎疫情中全国有3000多医务人员感染，还有不少的医务人员因感染新冠肺炎牺牲，这是一个非常令人痛心的事情。
More than 3,000 medical workers across the country have been infected and many more have died from pneumonia, which is very distressing.
医护人员在医院里面，他面对的是各种各样的病人，也不知谁有感染，谁处在感染的潜伏期。
In the hospital, he was faced with a wide variety of patients, who did not know who had the infection and who was in the incubation period.
医务人员感染风险也高，所以我们还要想办法，创造更好的医疗条件，保护医护人员。
There is also a high risk of infection among medical personnel, so we have to find ways to create better medical conditions and protect medical personnel.
比如眼科，武汉中心医院已经有医生感染新冠肺炎去世，眼科不看新冠病人，他为什么会感染？医生在毫无防备或防护不到位的情况下，给病人做诊疗操作，更容易被感染。
For example, in the case of ophthalmology, Wuhan Central Hospital, where a doctor has died of pneumonia, why is he infected if he does not see a newly-crowned patient in ophthalmology?
所以我强烈呼吁临床各科医师都要重视院感管理，积极参与院感管理，与院感专业人员一道，携手践行感控标准，保护医患安全。
Therefore, I strongly appeal to all clinical physicians to pay attention to hospital management, actively participate in the hospital sense management, and work together with hospital professionals, practice the standards of sensibility control, protect the safety of doctors and patients.
征集令阳春三月，万物复苏。
Call for Spring March, all things revive.
在抗击疫情的战斗中，我们迎来了春天，《新民周刊》也迎来了新闻线索和故事征集的第二弹。
In the fight against the epidemic, we ushered in the spring, "New People's Weekly" also ushered in the news clues and the second round of story collection.
如今，经历了一个多月休眠的城市正在逐渐苏醒，各行各业都开始有序复工复产。
Now, after more than a month of dormancy of the city is gradually waking up, all walks of life began to orderly resumption of work.
不论您是企业老板、管理者，还是普通员工；又或者，您是老师、家长，还是学生本人……我们希望了解复工复产复学过程中的困难，或暖心故事。
Whether you're a business owner, a manager, or an employee, or whether you're a teacher, parent, or student... we'd like to know about the difficulties of getting back to work, or a warm heart story.
如果你是抗疫一线的医生护士，疫情期间拍下了珍贵的摄影作品，也欢迎联系我们投稿。
If you are a first-line doctor and nurse against the epidemic, you have taken valuable photographs during the epidemic and are welcome to contact us for contributions.
当然，抗击新冠肺炎疫情的相关故事，我们仍然欢迎。
Of course, the story of fighting the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia is still welcome.
希望广大读者朋友，提供相关线索，说出你的故事，让我们用新闻留存这一切。
I hope that the general reader friends, provide relevant clues, tell your story, let us use the news to retain all this.
《新民周刊》新冠肺炎线索征集值班编辑联系方式（添加时请简要自我介绍）：周一：应　琛　微信号：paulineying0127周二：金　姬　微信号：gepetta周三：黄　祺　微信号：shewen-2020周四：周　洁　微信号：asyouasyou周五：孔冰欣　微信号：kbx875055141周六：吴　雪　微信号：shyshine1105周日：姜浩峰　微信号：jianggeladandong✳如你需要捐赠物资，可与以下两位工作人员联系:王勇：WangYong-SH吴轶君：rommy150708（添加时请注明“捐物资”，方便工作人员快速通过您的申请，谢谢。
WangYong-SH micro-signaling: Zhou Jie micro-signaling: Zhou Jie micro-signals: kbx875055141 Friday: kbx875055141 If you need a donation, please contact: Wang Yong-SH micro-signaling: kbx875055141 Sunday: Wu Xue micro-signal: JiangHao Feng micro-signal: www.jinggeladandong: www.youtheme.cn
）新闻是历史的底稿，你们是历史的见证者。
) News is the manuscript of history, and you are witnesses to it.
期待你的故事、你的线索！▼大家还都在看这些▼·李佳琦1.3亿买上海豪宅？假的！这可能是开发商和明星的共生套路……·深挖｜中国最能打的女人：我们要做冠军，而不是暴君！·泉州酒店坍塌事故：频频掉玻璃渣的酒店为何成为隔离点？新民周刊所有平台稿件，未经正式授权一律不得转载、出版、改编或进行与新民周刊版权相关的其他行为，违者必究。
Why do we need to be the champion of China, not the tyrant! Why should we be the champion of China's hotelier: Why should we be the champion, not the tyrant? All Xinmin Weekly platform articles shall not be reproduced, published, adapted, or otherwise related to the copyright of Xinmin Weekly without official authorization.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
火线 | 确保4万多医护人员“零感染”，有多难？——专访中央赴湖北指导组医疗组专家吴安华。
How difficult is it to ensure that more than 40,000 medical personnel have "zero infection"? - To interview Wu Anhua, a medical expert with the Hubei Guidance Team.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "新民周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "火线 | 确保4万多医护人员“零感染”，有多难？——专访中央赴湖北指导组医疗组专家吴安华";。
How difficult is it to ensure that more than 40,000 health-care workers have "zero infections"? - To interview Wu Anhua, a medical expert with the Hubei Guidance Team at the central government.
var msg_desc = "在武汉期间，吴安华做了近100场防护培训，覆盖医护人员超过1.4万余人。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; During his time in Wuhan, Wu Anhua trained nearly 100 nurses in protection, reaching more than 14,000 people.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '李佳琦1.3亿买上海豪宅？假的！这可能是开发商和明星的共生套路……',。
Li Jiaqi's $130 million Shanghai home? Fake! It may have been a symbiotic pattern for developers and stars... & amp; # 39; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;
subject_name: '新民周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '深挖｜中国最能打的女人：我们要做冠军，而不是暴君！',。
China's most striking woman: We want to be the champion, not the tyrant!
subject_name: '新民周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '泉州酒店坍塌事故：频频掉玻璃渣的酒店为何成为隔离点？',。
& quanzhou Hotel Collapse: Why has a glass slag hotel been a fixture? & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '新民周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
var title ="新民周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
