不要遗忘武汉的独居老人。
Don't forget the lonely old man in Wuhan.
成琨。
Jade.
真实故事计划                      。
The real story plan.
真实故事计划。
The real story plan.
每天一个打动人心的原创真实故事。
An original and true story that touches the heart every day.
。
.
武汉封城后，独居老人群体的生活面临极大风险。
Wuhan after the closure of the elderly living alone groups of life is facing great risk.
一群年轻人组织起来，为社区扶助不完整或行动不便的独居老人，无偿提供送菜支援。
A group of young people organize to help the community support the elderly living alone who are incomplete or have limited mobility and provide food delivery support free of charge.
一个多月时间，志愿者们走近1500位独居老人的世界，巩固他们的日常生活。
For more than a month, volunteers approached 1,500 elderly people living alone to consolidate their daily lives.
以下是“寻找独居老人”志愿行动发起人周维（化名）的口述：故事时间：2020年故事地点：武汉我们是为这次疫情临时组建的志愿者小组，只有十几个人。
The following is the story of Zhou Wei, founder of the voluntary initiative "Seeking a Lonely Old Man" (not his real name): Wuhan We are a group of volunteers temporarily assembled for the epidemic, with only a dozen people in attendance.
2月中旬以前，我们的主要精力放在了新冠肺炎患者的收治上，其次是为非肺炎患者做线上义诊。
Until mid-February, our primary focus was on the treatment of patients with Newcomial Pneumonia, followed by on-line free consultations for non-pneumonia patients.
正是在这个过程中，关注到了独居老人的需求。
It is in this process that attention is paid to the needs of older persons living alone.
当时我们遇到了危重症或突发脑梗的老年患者，他们的身体状况非常不好，一些慢性病老人还面临断药风险。
We had elderly patients with severe or sudden cerebral infarction, who were in very poor health, and some elderly people with chronic diseases were at risk of losing their medication.
“家里的老人没有菜吃。
"The old people at home have no food.
”“老人没有药了怎么办呀？”这样的求助信息，夹杂在数千条微博私信中。
"What if the old man had no medicine?" was the message of help, mingled with thousands of personal microblogs.
2月10日晚上，一位女士联系上我们。
On the night of February 10, a lady contacted us.
她的父母住在武汉南湖，父亲患有帕金森和糖尿病，生活不能自理，已经断药很多天了，每天晚上都睡不着觉。
Her parents live in Wuhan Nanhu, her father is suffering from Parkinson and diabetes, unable to take care of himself, has been out of medicine for many days, and can not sleep every night.
母亲不放心把父亲一个人留在家里，无法去医院开药。
The mother did not feel comfortable leaving her father alone at home and unable to prescribe medicines in the hospital.
她在外地只能干着急。
She had to worry in the field.
当时管控严格，个别小区无法出入，送药的志愿者每天晚上七点后，趁小区值班人员换班，才能偷摸跑出来，骑车到武汉三镇送药。
At that time, strict control, unable to access individual communities, the delivery of medicine volunteers after seven every night, while the community duty staff shift, can sneak out of the car to Wuhan three towns to deliver medicine.
当晚，志愿者到省人民医院急诊科为老人购药，但医生说白天在门诊才能开药。
That night, volunteers went to the emergency department of the provincial People's Hospital to buy medicine for the elderly, but doctors said it could only be prescribed in outpatient clinics during the day.
第二天，志愿者一早去门诊排队，买齐了药立马给老人送过去。
The next day, the volunteers went to the clinic early in the morning to buy medicine and send it to the old man immediately.
后来，那位女士告诉我们，父亲晚上终于可以睡着了。
Later, the lady told us that my father was finally able to fall asleep at night.
大部分子女很关心老人，却因为距离无能为力，我们也遇到过直接撒手不管的情况。
Most of our children are concerned about the elderly, but because of distance, we have experienced situations in which we simply give up.
在收治新冠肺炎患者时，一位老太太疑似感染，儿子把她送到了医院。
In the treatment of patients with pneumonia, an old woman suspected of infection, her son sent her to the hospital.
医院床位不够，他给老人留了床被子和一些吃的，就离开了。
There were not enough beds in the hospital. He left the old man a quilt and some food.
回家后，疯狂地给志愿者打电话，让志愿者帮忙看着，挺让人寒心的。
Back home, frantically call the volunteers, let the volunteers to help look at it, it is very chilly.
除了这些危急的情况，我们遇到的独居老人平均年龄在70岁以上，行动不便，大多不会使用手机网购。
In addition to these critical situations, the average age of the elderly living alone is over 70 years of age, mobility is limited, most do not use mobile phone network to buy.
一旦缺菜、缺药，只能硬撑，或时不时靠邻居接济一下。
If you are short of food and medicine, just stick to it or rely on your neighbors for help from time to time.
所以只要我们看到关于老人的求助信息，经核实后就会帮忙。
So as long as we see help information about the elderly, after verification will help.
湖北省“应收尽收、应治尽治”的命令下达后，大部分新冠肺炎患者逐渐被收治，我们才腾出专门的时间为独居老人送菜、送药。
After the order of "receiving and treating all the patients" in Hubei Province, most of the patients were gradually admitted to hospital. Only then did we have time to bring food and medicine to the old people living alone.
2月21日，我发了一条微博：大家如果在武汉家里有独居老人或者残疾人等不方便购菜的，可以联系社区送菜上门，如果社区不给送的，可以反馈给我，我们来和社区沟通。
Feb. 21, I sent a micro-blog: if you have a single elderly or disabled home in Wuhan and other inconvenient to buy vegetables, you can contact the community to deliver food door-to-door, if the community does not give, can give back to me, we come to communicate with the community.
我们需要把提供帮助的声音传递出去，我发现单凭我们的力量是不够的。
We need to get our voices heard, and I find that our strength alone is not enough.
正好我认识A2N（Anti-2019-nCoV的缩写）疫情志愿组的负责人，他们是来自全国各地的线上志愿者，主要工作内容是科普和辟谣。
I happen to know the head of the A2N volunteer group, an online volunteer from all over the country working on popular science and denial of rumors.
我们决定发挥各自的优势，A2N整合线上资源，收集独居老人的信息。
We decided to use our respective strengths, A2N to integrate online resources and collect information about older people living alone.
而我们和社区打交道比较多，可以进一步核实和线下送菜。
And we have more contact with the community, can be further verified and off-line delivery.
2月26号，A2N的4位志愿者正式参与进来，在各个渠道发布“寻找无法取菜的独居老人（仅限武汉）”的海报。
On Feb. 26, four volunteers from A2N officially took part in a campaign to put up posters from various outlets calling for single elderly people unable to get food (Wuhan only).
截至3月5日，A2N在各个渠道收到了近1500条求助信息，其中大部分来自老人的家属。
As of March 5, A2N had received nearly 1,500 calls from various sources, most of them from families of older people.
图|寻找独居老人的海报核实信息时，我们会询问是否尝试过网购、外卖跑腿。
When looking for a poster to verify information about an elderly person living alone, we ask if we have tried online shopping or running errands.
如果老人腿脚不方便，无法下楼取菜，那么是否向社区寻求过帮助。
If it was inconvenient for the old man to go downstairs and pick up the food, did he seek help from the community?
在社区人手不够的情况下，我们才会开始线下的帮扶。
In the community is not enough people, we will start to help offline.
像查漏补缺一样，这是目前最有效率的方式。
This is the most efficient way to fill a vacancy at the moment.
最终实际需要我们上门送菜的老人，大概只有数十位。
In the end, we actually need to send food door-to-door elderly, only about a few dozen.
每天晚上，我们会提前规划好第二天要去送菜的地方，和卖菜的老板打好招呼，让他给我们留菜，最好是存放时间久的大白菜、萝卜等蔬菜。
Every night, we plan ahead the next day to the place to deliver food, and the owner of the vegetables and ask him to leave us vegetables, preferably long-time cabbage, turnip and other vegetables.
每家老人的配额大概是200元，要是需要买油，就贵一点。
The quota for each old man is about 200 yuan. If you need oil, it's more expensive.
从一线志愿者的反馈中，我看到了独居老人的生活状态。
From the feedback from the front-line volunteers, I saw the living conditions of the elderly living alone.
老人们虽然缺菜，但是整体上精神状态都还不错，非常乐观。
Although the old people lack of food, but the overall mental state is good, very optimistic.
最让我印象深刻的是A2N志愿者小鱼跟进的谢奶奶。
What impressed me most was Grandma Xie, who was followed by A2N volunteer Fisher.
2月28日傍晚，77岁的谢奶奶通过我们的海报，加上了小鱼的微信。
On the evening of February 28, 77-year-old Grandma Xie passed our poster with a message from Fish.
谢奶奶发来的第一句话是：“感谢你的付出和辛苦。
Grandma Xie sent the first words: "Thank you for your efforts and hard work.
”谢奶奶没有子女，老伴去世后，她独居了15年。
"Grandma Xie had no children and lived alone for 15 years after her wife died.
一个人生活，她把自己照顾得很好，平时喜欢在家练毛笔字、做衣服。
Living alone, she took good care of herself, usually like to practice writing brush at home, make clothes.
由于买不到口罩，武汉封城后，谢奶奶再没有下过楼，过年前买的菜早就吃完了。
As a result of not buying masks, Wuhan after the closure of Grandma Xie did not go downstairs, the food bought before the New Year has been finished eating.
于是一小碗南瓜粥，就着一碟腐乳和酸豆角，每天像这样吃两顿。
So a small bowl of pumpkin porridge, with a dish of curd and pickled beans, eat like this twice a day.
谢奶奶说她饭量小，“有点儿就能活。
Grandma Xie said she eats like a bird. "She can live a little.
”疫情发生前，谢奶奶和邻居吃饭，特意穿上了大红色的棉袄，坐在沙发上拍了一张照片。
"Before the outbreak, Ms. Xie ate with her neighbors, dressed in a red cotton padded jacket and sat on the sofa to take a picture.
后来，她在照片上写了一行字：“老实待在家里就是给社会做贡献”。
Later, she wrote a line on the picture: "To be honest at home is to contribute to society."
她告诉小鱼，不是害怕自己怎么样了，而是万一感染了病毒，不知道要麻烦多少人。
She told the fish, not afraid of what happened to themselves, but in the event of a virus, do not know how many people to trouble.
谢奶奶还担心自己打扰了志愿者，不断强调：如果方便，就帮她带点菜，她一个人吃一点便宜菜就够了，要是忙就不用管她。
She also worried that she disturbed the volunteers, constantly stressed: if it is convenient, help her to take a order, she alone to eat a little cheap food is enough, if busy ignore her.
我们记录下谢奶奶的情况后，第二天帮她叫了外卖跑腿。
After recording Grandma Xie's condition, we ordered her to run errands the next day.
在等待外卖小哥的期间，小鱼陪着谢奶奶说话，她告诉小鱼，从来没有人这样及时回复她消息：“你愿意与老太太聊天，不嫌弃，你真好！”谢奶奶戴着仅剩的一个口罩取到菜后，小鱼嘱咐她换衣服，用酒精消毒装菜的袋子，口罩不要再用了。
While waiting for the little brother to take out, she told Xiao Fish that no one had ever answered her in time: "You would like to chat with the old lady and not hate it!" Grandma Xie took the dishes from one of the remaining masks and asked her to change her clothes, disinfect the bags with alcohol and stop using the masks.
这些细小的关心，让谢奶奶感慨，曾经那些她帮过的人，还抵不过特殊时期偶然遇到的陌生人。
These small concerns, let grandma Xie lament that she once helped people, but also the special period of strangers encountered by chance.
最近几天，谢奶奶还给小鱼发语音唱歌，小鱼和谢奶奶分享照片，约好了疫情过去后去看望她。
In recent days, Grandma Xie also sent small fish voice singing, small fish and grandma Xie shared photos, made an appointment to visit her after the epidemic.
其实独居老人缺的不是菜，而是来自情感上的关心。
In fact, the elderly living alone is not a lack of food, but from emotional concern.
心理上缺少依靠，这才是他们的真实困境。
Their real predicament is their psychological lack of support.
3月6日，之前帮助过的一个老奶奶给我打来电话，说还需要几种药物。
On March 6, an old woman who had helped me called me and said she needed several more medicines.
我当时听不清，怕买错了，于是拜托医生朋友联系奶奶。
I couldn't hear, so I asked my doctor friend to contact my grandmother.
医生朋友沟通过后，发现奶奶不缺药和菜，却一直联系我们。
The doctor friend communicates, discovered grandma does not lack medicine and dish, actually contact us all the time.
我们转而为奶奶寻找到了专业的心理医生。
Instead, we found a professional psychiatrist for Grandma.
我们这个小团队，可能是所有志愿者组织中，最没有计划和条理的。
Our small team, perhaps the most unplanned and disorganized of all the volunteer organizations.
我们没有定目标，说要帮助多少人。
We didn't set a goal of how many people to help.
有1个人求助，就帮1个。
One man for help, one for one.
有1000个人求助，我们就帮1000个。
There are 1,000 people asking for help, and we help 1,000.
需求增加了，我们再去扩充人手。
The demand has increased, and we will increase our staff.
我们的初衷是切实帮助处于边缘的独居老人，可还是听到了一些质疑的声音。
Our original intention is to help the elderly living alone on the edge, but we still heard some voices of doubt.
一开始，只要老人的要求是合理的，我们都会尽量满足。
At first, as long as the old man's demands are reasonable, we will try to be satisfied.
现在，由于只有2个志愿者有小区通行证，难免有照顾不周的地方。
Now, as only two volunteers have a small area pass, there is inevitably poor care.
2月29日，有个老人打电话质问我们，为什么她需要的东西还不给送过去，说看电视上，想要水果志愿者就给送水果，我们怎么不满足她的需求，是不是在骗她。
On Feb. 29, an old man phoned us to ask why she didn't send us what she needed. She said she would give fruit to volunteers who wanted fruit on TV.
之前，我在微博上收集统计求助者的信息，主要是失独老人、在疫情期间失去父母的孩子、生活不便的残疾人士。
Before that, I collected information on microbloggers, mainly the elderly, children who lost their parents during the epidemic, and people with disabilities who had difficulty living.
有人评论，“你们凭什么收集别人信息，谁给你们授权了？你们就是拿别人信息去骗人的。
Someone commented, "On what basis do you collect other people's information and who authorizes you? You just use other people's information to deceive people."
”也有人说，你的微博好歹去认证一下。
Others say that your microblogger is somehow going to authenticate it.
为了让大家更相信我们一点，我真的去给微博加V了。
In order to make people believe us a little more, I really went to Weibo to add V.
我当时挺气愤的，很担心有些人本来想求援，看到这些话会放弃求助。
I was angry, worried that some people would have asked for help and would have given up.
我的朋友安慰我：“因为如果一个人真的遇到了绝境，身份证号码都可以给你，如果命都没有了，个人隐私一点意义都没有了。
My friend comforted me by saying, "Because if a person is really in a desperate situation, the ID number can be given to you.
真正需要帮助的人，会想尽各种办法抓住救命稻草。
The people who really need help will try their best to grasp the straw.
”我们给老人去送菜送药，都是不收钱的。
"We don't charge for taking things to the old man.
志愿者没有民政部门批准，不具备募捐资格。
Volunteers without the approval of civil affairs departments do not qualify for fund-raising.
前期我们团队的费用基本由我一个人来承担，除了给老人买菜，还有其他项目（比如为病患家属捐赠防护物品），已经花了几万。
The cost of our team was largely borne by me in the early stages. In addition to buying food for the elderly, there were other projects (such as donating protective items to family members) for which tens of thousands had already been spent.
最近，我通过微博付费问答的方式提供法律咨询，用知识合法换来的收入，继续帮助有需要的人。
Recently, I continued to help people in need by providing legal advice in the form of paid questions and answers on microblogging, using the proceeds of legal knowledge.
根据我们的核实与在一线的观察，目前总的来看，真正无菜可吃的老人比例是非常小的，大多数情况还是属于信息闭塞。
On the basis of our verification and observations on the ground, the proportion of truly inedible elderly people is currently very small and, in most cases, information-poor.
或许还有一些独居老人被遗漏了，我们会继续寻找，哪怕像大海捞针一样。
Perhaps some old people living alone have been left out, and we will continue to look for them, even as we look for a needle in a haystack.
这段时间，我见到了很多因疫情去世的人，想站出来帮助一下大家，也算是给自己找到一丝慰藉吧。
During this time, I met a lot of people who died of the epidemic, would like to step forward to help you, is to find a bit of comfort to themselves.
- END -撰文| 成琨。
- END - Writing & # 124; Cheng Kun.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
不要遗忘武汉的独居老人。
Don't forget the lonely old man in Wuhan.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "文学";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "真实故事计划";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "不要遗忘武汉的独居老人";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Don't forget Wuhan's solitary old man & quot;;
var msg_desc = "独居老人，危如累卵";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="真实故事计划";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
