游泳世界冠军的封城记忆：因发烧差点吓哭 刘子歌给海淘一沓口罩。
Swimming World Champion: Crying with a fever, Liu Zi gave Hai Tao a wad of masks.
腾讯体育                      。
Tencent Sports.
腾讯体育。
Tencent Sports.
腾讯网体育频道官方账号。
QQ Sports Channel official account number.
The following article comes from 腾讯边界。
The following article comes from the Tencent boundary.
Author 应虹霞。
Author responds to Hongxia.
腾讯边界。
Tencent borders.
“虽有涯，而则无尽”。
There is a limit, but there is no end.
边界是腾讯体育倾力打造的深度体育原创栏目。
The boundary is the original column of the deep sports created by Tencent sports.
带您在体育的界限之内，解读新闻事件，解密真相内幕，解构体育时空。
Take you within the boundaries of sports, interpret news events, decrypt the truth, deconstruct sports space-time.
在这里，不只是现场。
Here, not just on the spot.
。
.
“疫情消息还未大范围传播时，赵菁曾去医院看感冒，医生朋友赶忙给她塞了两个口罩，叮嘱她一定要戴。
"Before the news of the outbreak spread widely, Zhao Jing went to the hospital to catch a cold. Her doctor's friend rushed to put two masks on her and told her to wear them.
虽然也曾发烧和后怕，但赵菁一家人还是平复心情，走过了紧张难熬的日子。
Although also had a fever and fear, but Zhao Jing family or calm mood, passed the tense and difficult days.
疫情期间，赵菁学会了爵士舞，也决定把多年不曾规律训练的游泳再次捡起来，作为终身爱好——热爱生活，身体力行。
During the epidemic, Zhao Jing learned jazz dance, but also decided to years of irregular training swimming up again, as a lifelong love - love life, live it.
这是腾讯体育原创策划《我和我的城》第四篇，游泳世界冠军赵菁的故事。
This is Tencent Sports original planning "Me and my city" chapter 4, swimming world champion Zhao Jing story.
”Play游泳世界冠军赵菁退役已经四年多。
Zhao Jing, world champion of Play Swimming, has retired for more than four years.
跟千万武汉人一样，在新冠肺炎期间，赵菁和家人困于城内。
Like tens of millions of Wuhan people, Zhao Jing and his family were trapped in the city during the New Crown Pneumonia.
他们跟武汉这座城市一起，经历了身体和精神状态的起起伏伏；也经历了牵挂他人和被他人帮助的互相照亮。
Together with the city of Wuhan, they have experienced ups and downs in their physical and mental state; they have also experienced mutual illumination in caring for and being helped by others.
他们体同这座城一起，穿过晦暗，逐渐窥见光明。
Together with this city, they pass through the gloom and gradually see the light.
设计/王烨01隐于武汉校园的宝藏教练自从1月17日从武汉协和医院看完感冒回家，赵菁在家闭门不出，已是六周多的时间。
Designs / Wang Ye 01 Hidden in Wuhan Campus Treasure Coach Zhao Jing has been at home for more than six weeks since seeing a cold coming home from Wuhan Concord Hospital on January 17.
“确实很危险。
"It's really dangerous.
武汉的这个爆发，规模比当年SARS还是要大得多。
Wuhan of this outbreak, the scale of SARS than then is still much larger.
”赵菁说。
"said Zhao Jing.
前游泳世界冠军赵菁，是地地道道的武汉姑娘。
Zhao Jing, a former world champion swimmer, is an entirely Wuhan girl.
她1999年进入湖北省队，2009年罗马世锦赛上打破女子50米仰泳世界纪录，现役生涯曾多次为国争光。
She joined the Hubei team in 1999 and broke the women's 50m backstroke world record at the 2009 World Championships in Rome.
2015年年底，赵菁正式退役。
At the end of 2015, Zhao Jing was officially retired.
一个机缘巧合的机会，赵菁进入了位于武汉的中国地质大学，成为该校一名体育老师。
By chance, Zhao Jing entered the China Geology University in Wuhan and became a physical education teacher there.
退役后的赵菁成为了一名大学老师（图源赵菁微博）没有游泳馆，赵菁一开始教学生们打乒乓球。
After retiring Zhao Jing became a college teacher (Zhao Jing Weibo) did not have swimming pool, Zhao Jing began teaching students to play table tennis.
她也尝试着接触户外运动，有过一次带学生去西藏实习登山的经历。
She also tried to get in touch with outdoor sports and once took her students to Tibet to practice mountaineering.
她也学飞滑翔伞，成功放飞了三次。
She also learned to fly a paraglider, successfully released three times.
2018年2月，地质大学游泳馆正式落成开放，赵菁如鱼得水，开始教学生们游泳。
In February 2018, the Geological University swimming pool was officially opened, Zhao Jing, like a fish out of water, began to teach students to swim.
2019年7月，作为光州世锦赛央视解说嘉宾的她，顺道参加了大师赛，一举囊括女子50仰和100仰冠军。
In July 2019, as a Guang Zhou World Championships CCTV commentary guests, she dropped in to participate in the Masters, one fell to the women's 50 and 100 champion.
“宝藏教练！”赵菁夺冠的消息见诸武汉当地的报纸后，地大的学生们才恍然大悟，这位总是乐呵呵，年轻而低调的女体育老师，竟然是一位前游泳世界冠军。
"Treasure Coach!" Zhao Jing won the news in Wuhan local newspapers, students suddenly realize that this is always cheerful, young and low-key female sports teacher, is a former swimming world champion.
021月17日去协和看感冒，医生给塞了两个口罩2020年春节前夕，赵菁记得，地质大学是1月16日放寒假的。
021 went to Concorde to see a cold, the doctor gave two masks to be canceled on the eve of the 2020 Spring Festival, Zhao Jing recalled that the geological college was January 16 winter vacation.
此前，赵菁就听说，武汉出现了一些不明原因的肺炎。
Before this, Zhao Jing heard, Wuhan appeared a number of unknown causes of pneumonia.
1月10日，学校开期末总结会，提到了要求教职员工关心回家过年学生的状况。
On January 10, the final school meeting, mentioned that staff are required to care about the situation of students returning home for the Chinese New Year.
“只是提了一下，也是提醒学生返程安全，注意身体健康。
"Just mention it, but also to remind students to return to safety, pay attention to physical health.
那个时候（疫情）也没有说引起很大重视。
At that time [epidemic] also did not say that caused a lot of attention.
”当天距离钟南山20日明确表示新冠肺炎“人传人”，还有10天。
Zhong Nan Shan that day 20 clearly said the new crown pneumonia "person-to-person", there are 10 days.
武汉当地报道称，这次肺炎“没有人传人迹象”，披露的病例也仅为50余例，“大家都没当回事”。
Wuhan reported that "no signs of human-to-human transmission" of pneumonia, the disclosure of only more than 50 cases, "no one took seriously.
令赵菁有些后怕的是，1月17号，也就是放假第二天，她因为感冒，还跑了一趟武汉协和医院。
Zhao Jing was afraid that January 17, that is, the day after the holiday, because of her cold, she also went to Wuhan Concorde Hospital.
见到熟识的医生，赵菁吃了一惊：因为他们“所有人都戴着口罩”。
Zhao Jing was surprised to see the doctors she knew: "All of them were wearing masks."
医生朋友赶紧给了赵菁两个口罩，叮嘱她进来戴一个，离开时再换一个。
The doctor friend quickly gave Zhao Jing two masks and told her to come in and wear one and change the other when she left.
赵菁这才意识到，必须提高警惕了。
Zhao Jing then realized that he must be more vigilant.
从医院出来，原本打算坐地铁回家的她，选择了搭乘出租车。
From the hospital, originally intended to take the subway home, she chose to take a taxi.
当天晚上，赵菁就感觉有些发烧，测量了下体温，摄氏37度1。
That night, Zhao Jing felt a little feverish and took a temperature of 37 degrees Celsius.
嗓子也开始肿痛，后面两天还有点咳嗽，出痰，“感觉整个人就不好了”。
The throat is also beginning to swollen pain, the next two days also a bit cough, sputum, "feel the whole person is not good."
还好这只是虚惊一场。
Luckily it was a false alarm.
赵菁和家人原本打算20日赴北海度假，也购买了当天的机票。
Zhao Jing and his family had planned to go on holiday to the North Sea on the 20th and bought tickets for the day.
19日下午，毫无预兆地，她突然收到了退票短信，声称航班取消，机票费也被直接原路退回。
On the afternoon of the 19th, without warning, she received a text message saying that the flight had been cancelled and that the cost of the air ticket had been returned directly by the original route.
怎么回事？抱着疑虑，赵菁尝试重新订票，但没能成功。
What's the matter? With misgivings, Zhao Jing tried to reorder the tickets, but failed.
一家人决定就留在武汉过年。
The family decided to stay in Wuhan for the New Year.
当天晚上，《新闻联播》播出了钟南山的讲话，确认新爆发的肺炎“人传人”。
That evening, the News Network broadcast Zhong Nan Shan speech, confirmed the new outbreak of pneumonia "from person to person."
03紧张的气氛在家里弥漫国家队队友特地寄来口罩1月23日，武汉正式封城。
03 Tension in the family diffuse national team-mates specially sent masks January 23, Wuhan officially closed the city.
除夕之夜，赵菁的心里很不是滋味，为家人，为亲友，更为这座城市担忧。
On New Year's Eve, Zhao Jing's heart is very uncomfortable, for the family, friends and relatives, more worried about the city.
疫情爆发后，赵菁所在的地质大学也动员起来，要求党员们尽一份义务。
After the outbreak of the outbreak, Zhao Jing's geological university also mobilized and asked Party members to do their part.
由于校园封闭，值班任务主要由住在校内的老师分担。
Due to the closure of the campus, the on-duty duties are mainly shared by teachers living on campus.
住在校外的赵菁，开始了闭门不出的隔离生活。
Zhao Jing, who lives outside the school, began to live in seclusion.
这样的封闭生活，17年前“非典”肆虐之际，赵菁在省队有过经历，但那时，武汉并不是重灾区。
Such a closed life, 17 years ago when SARS raged, Zhao Jing experienced in the provincial team, but at that time, Wuhan was not a serious disaster area.
“确实很危险。
"It's really dangerous.
武汉的这个爆发，规模比当年‘非典’要大得多。
Wuhan of this outbreak, than the scale of the 'SARS' was much larger.
我很少做梦的人，那几天我真的是做噩梦。
I seldom dream of people, those days I really have nightmares.
”赵菁说。
"said Zhao Jing.
武汉封城（图源网络）隔离的日子里，赵菁每天早上起来的第一件事，就是翻看手机推送，那里有国家卫建委统一发布的最新数据。
The first thing Zhao Jing does every morning during the days of Wuhan Fengcheng (map source network) is to flip through the mobile phone push, where the latest figures released by the National Health and Construction Commission are unified.
学校、小区，都有确诊病例，这让赵菁全家都不免紧张。
School, small area, all have confirmed case, this lets Zhao Jing whole family unavoidably nervous.
要知道，最开始的几天，他们家里，一枚口罩储备都没有。
You know, for the first few days, they didn't have a single mask in their house.
因为发烧的关系，赵菁是家中第一个害怕，也是第一个释怀的。
Because of the feverish relationship, Zhao Jing was the first to be afraid and the first to let go.
此后，赵菁的父母先后感觉身体不适，父亲不知为何鼻子肿红，母亲则犯了鼻炎。
Since then, Zhao Jing's parents have been feeling unwell, father did not know why the nose swollen red, the mother made rhinitis.
紧张的气氛在家里无声地蔓延。
The tense atmosphere spread noiselessly in the house.
“吃着吃着青菜就没了，就只能吃肉或者是吃提前准备的速冻食品，容易上火。
"Eat to eat green vegetables are gone, can only eat meat or eat early prepared fast-frozen food, easy to get angry.
”后来，所需蔬菜由小区物业配送，一周一次。
Later, the vegetables were distributed by properties in the neighborhood once a week.
从来没有经历过如此超长的隔离生活，一家人都很不习惯。
Never had such a long, isolated life, and the family was not used to it.
“警报”随着大家的症状缓解而逐渐解除。
The "alert" gradually eased as everyone's symptoms subsided.
“现在全家都心态很好。
"The whole family is in a good mood now.
都释怀了。
It's all over.
”幸运的是，这只是再次虚惊一场。
Fortunately, it was just another false alarm.
而获悉赵菁欠缺口罩，前国家队队友刘子歌托人设法从国外购买到N95口罩后，特地从沈阳为她寄上了一沓。
After learning that Zhao Jing lacked face masks, former national team-mate Liu Zi Ge had sent out a bundle of N95 masks specially from Shenyang.
刘子歌还给赵菁打来了电话，关心她的近况。
Liu Zi song also called Zhao Jing, concerned about her recent situation.
在地质大学的教职员工群里，大家也是每天确认安好，互相打气。
Within the faculty and staff of the University of Geology, people confirm their well-being and encourage each other every day.
04关心与被关心互彰居家隔离运动不能停抗疫期间，医务工作者们的付出和牺牲，感动着赵菁。
Concerned and concerned with the coordination of home isolation campaign can not stop fighting the epidemic, medical workers pay and sacrifice, moved Zhao Jing.
“她们真的很不容易，很辛苦。
"They're not easy, they're hard.
”她给几位医生朋友，有之前拔过牙的，做过鼻炎手术的，都发了短信问候他们。
She sent short messages to several of her doctor's friends, some who had pulled out their teeth before and those who had had rhinitis surgeries.
对方回复说，还在坚持值班。
The other side replied that he was still on duty.
作为一名湖北籍的前国家队队员，赵菁也很牵挂自己的小师弟、同样是湖北籍的现国家游泳队队员闫子贝。
As a former member of the Hubei national team, Zhao Jing also worries about her younger brother, Yan Zibei, a member of the current Hubei National Swimming Team.
还好，闫子贝一直在北京的国家队封闭训练。
Fortunately Yan Zibei has been in Beijing's national team closed training.
需要关心的人很多。
There are a lot of people to care about.
赵菁注意到，自己儿时的一个老邻居也在网上发出了求助声。
Zhao Jing noticed that an old neighbor of his childhood had also made a plea for help on the Internet.
她果断转发了朋友圈。
She decidedly relayed the circle of friends.
一名早年在省队的队友，其父亲在“应收尽收”总攻发起后，得到了确诊和收治——根据队友们快速传授的经验，这位谭姓大伯顺利入住了武汉市第七医院。
The father of an early provincial team-mate was diagnosed and admitted after a "take-it-or-leave" offensive - and, based on his teammates' rapid transfer, the Tan was admitted to Wuhan's seventh hospital.
现役时期的赵菁，肺活量不大，心脏也不是太好。
Zhao Jing in active service, lung capacity is not big, the heart is not very good.
退役前两年，她在全运会上游着游着，一度在泳池边瘫倒。
Two years before retiring, she swam upstream of the National Games and collapsed at the swimming pool.
退役后，唯一的一次带学生进西藏，因为感觉缺氧严重，她不得不当天就出藏，前后连24小时都没有待到。
After her retirement, the only time she took her students into Tibet was because she felt so short of oxygen that she had to go out to Tibet the same day.
运动员时期的赵菁那时，赵菁觉得，自己当运动员时动得多了，退役后不妨安静些，少运动。
At that time, Zhao Jing felt that Zhao Jing had moved much more when he was a sportsman. He might as well retire quietly and exercise less.
但在这段隔离的日子里，她变了：每天午饭后，趁着家人休息，她会打开窗户通气，然后开始锻炼：先是打卡跑步，后来，又爱上了爵士舞。
But in those days of isolation, she changed: every day after lunch, while her family rested, she would open the window to air and then exercise: first to punch in and then to fall in love with jazz.
“也算是疫情期间get了一项新技能，等开学了，教学生们跳。
"It's a new skill that got set during the epidemic. When school starts, teach students how to dance.
”赵菁笑称。
"said Zhao Jing, laughing.
当下，赵菁正在攻读博士。
Zhao Jing is now studying for her PhD.
疫情期间，学习当然也不能落下。
Learning, of course, cannot be left behind during an epidemic.
她最近在看一本教授如何做研究，写论文的应用书，“很有收获。
She's been reading a book recently on how professors do research and use papers. "It's very rewarding.
”05对全国人民的帮助心存感激游泳冠军想重拾游泳2月7日，赵菁在朋友圈写道：湖北人民记住并感恩这些省份在最困难最需要帮助的时刻，帮助了我们。
"People in Hubei Province remember and appreciate that they helped us in the most difficult and needy times," Zhao Jing, a swimming champion, wrote in a group of friends on Feb. 7.
武汉谢谢全国。
Wuhan thanks the whole country.
抗疫的特殊日子里，赵菁说，她最大的感触，是“很感动”、“有信心”。
Anti-epidemic day, Zhao Jing said, her biggest feeling is "very moved", "confidence."
“感动所有人的辛苦，看到了我们国家的力量。
"I touched the pain of all and saw the strength of our country.
我觉得，这是非常让我们有信心的一件事情。
I think this is something that gives us a lot of confidence.
国家在短时间内召集了这么多的医护人员，包括医疗的资源，全部调到武汉来帮忙，而且是一个省对接武汉一个市。
Within a short period of time, the country assembled so many medical personnel, including medical resources, all transferred to Wuhan to help, but also a province docked Wuhan city.
”全国都是同胞，同舟共济，消弥了地域偏见。
The whole country is compatriots, sharing the same boat and eliminating regional prejudice.
上海援鄂医生陪87岁患者看日落疫情结束后，赵菁最想做的一件事，就是重新把游泳捡起来，作为终身爱好；把锻炼，不是当一个口号，而是真正融入到生活中。
One of the things that Zhao Jing wanted to do most after sunset was over was to go back to swimming as a lifelong hobby. Exercise was not a slogan, but a real part of life.
钟南山院士和李兰娟院士的事迹震撼着她。
Academicians of Zhong Nan Shan and Li Lan Juan shocked her.
“他们两位，这么大年纪了，还冲在一线。
"Both of them, at this age, are still on the line.
我想向他们看齐。
I want to look at them.
”特别是，钟南山全程用英语接受采访，评价“李文亮医生用自己的生命照亮了很多人前行的路”，在赵菁看来“很棒很励志”。
In particular, Zhong Nan Shan was interviewed in English throughout the interview, commenting that "Dr. Li Wenliang illuminates many people's path with his own life," and Zhao Jing called it "great and inspiring."
赵菁说，未来，她或许无法通过英语或者医学知识去感染身边的人，但她希望通过自己的以身作则，通过游泳运动，影响和带动身边更多的人爱上游泳，享受游泳，一直游下去。
Zhao Jing said that in the future, she may not be able to use English or medical knowledge to infect people around her, but she hopes to influence and motivate more people around her to swim, enjoy swimming and swim all the way through her example.
扫描下方二维码，了解更多体育资讯。
Scan the bottom two-dimensional code for more information about sports.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
游泳世界冠军的封城记忆：因发烧差点吓哭 刘子歌给海淘一沓口罩。
Swimming World Champion: Crying with a fever, Liu Zi gave Hai Tao a wad of masks.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "腾讯体育";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "游泳世界冠军的封城记忆：因发烧差点吓哭 刘子歌给海淘一沓口罩";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "同这座城一起，穿过晦暗，逐渐窥见光明。
var msg _ desc = & quot; with this city, through the gloom, glimpsed light.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="腾讯体育";。
Var title = & quot; Tencent & quot; & quot; & quot;
