返乡世界冠军的志愿者之路：从被劝收起武汉身份证，到小孩给敬礼。
Volunteer road to returning home to the world champion: from being persuaded to collect Wuhan identity cards, to children to salute.
腾讯体育                      。
Tencent Sports.
腾讯体育。
Tencent Sports.
腾讯网体育频道官方账号。
QQ Sports Channel official account number.
The following article comes from 腾讯边界。
The following article comes from the Tencent boundary.
Author 徐思佳。
Author Xu Sijia.
腾讯边界。
Tencent borders.
“虽有涯，而则无尽”。
There is a limit, but there is no end.
边界是腾讯体育倾力打造的深度体育原创栏目。
The boundary is the original column of the deep sports created by Tencent sports.
带您在体育的界限之内，解读新闻事件，解密真相内幕，解构体育时空。
Take you within the boundaries of sports, interpret news events, decrypt the truth, deconstruct sports space-time.
在这里，不只是现场。
Here, not just on the spot.
。
.
从劝你收起武汉身份证、嘲讽你靠采购物资的志愿服务赚钱，到小朋友给你敬礼、村民对你笑脸相迎，摔跤世界冠军许晴在乡里乡亲间体会到了由远及近的人情，从不知所措到内心饱满而温暖。
From advising you to collect Wuhan identity card, ridiculing you rely on the voluntary service of purchasing goods to earn money, to the children to salute you, villagers smile to you, wrestling world champion Xu Qing in the countryside experienced by far and near human relations, from confused to full and warm heart.
就像她感受到的那样，越是艰难的时刻，越需要我们每个人都往前迈一步，每走出的一个小步，都会给对方带来更大的信心。
As she felt, the harder it was, the more we needed each of us to take a step forward, and each small step brought more confidence to the other.
这是腾讯体育原创策划《我和我的城》第三篇，摔跤世界冠军许晴的故事。
This is Tencent sports originality plan "Me and my city" the third chapter, wrestling world champion Xu Qing story.
我是许晴，一名退役的摔跤运动员。
I'm Xu Qing, a retired wrestler.
曾是2008年、2011年女子摔跤世界杯的冠军，但大多数人听到我的名字，还是会本能地反应到，“原来，你和那个影视明星许晴同名啊！”新冠肺炎疫情肆虐的一个多月时间里，我成为了老家村里的基层防疫志愿者，发传单、物资采购、登记人员信息、流动人员接触排查、体温统计，每一天都在忙碌和充实中感受着危难时刻被信任、被需要的满足。
I was the champion of the Women's Wrestling World Cup in 2008 and 2011, but when most people heard my name, they instinctively responded, "You and the movie star Xu Qing are the same name!"
01练体育20年，这是第一次在家乡待这么久我出生在湖北潜江浩口镇的一个小乡村，现在在武汉工作。
I was born in a small village in Qianjiang Estuary Town, Hubei Province. Now I work in Wuhan.
从14岁开始代表湖北队比赛到今天，我练体育已经20年了。
From the age of 14 on behalf of the Hubei team game to today, I have practiced sports for 20 years.
习惯了在外奔波、备战的我，从没有像这一次在老家待这么久。
I am used to running around and preparing for war, I have never been in my hometown so long as this one.
2003年的非典，那时的我刚好在年初跟着湖北队到北体大试训，教练担心我太小就带着我一起住在学校外面。
SARS in 2003, when I happened to follow the Hubei team to the northern part of the trial training, the coach worried that I was too young to live with me outside the school.
后来记得因为北京的疫情严重，整个学校都封闭了，我们只能赶回武汉，到了武汉又被隔离，饼干、泡面和消毒水的味道成了那时候印象最深的记忆。
Later I remember that because of the severe epidemic in Beijing, the whole school was closed. We had to go back to Wuhan, where we were isolated. The smell of biscuits, noodles and disinfectant became the most vivid memories of that time.
我的人生中，退役过两次。
I retired twice in my life.
2013年全运会前的一次训练，我在与男队员的对抗中，膝关节后交叉韧带断裂内侧韧带撕脱。
In a training session before the National Games in 2013, I tore off the medial ligament of a ruptured posterior cruciate ligament in my confrontation with male players.
比赛将近，在手术和坚持比赛之间，我选择了坚持，付出了这么久我不能让过去的努力白费。
As the game neared, between the surgery and the game, I chose to stick to it, and I couldn't let the past effort go to waste after all that time.
结果，我得了第四名，一个对运动员来说最“残忍的”名次，因为领奖台就在你的面前，你却够不到它。
As a result, I got fourth place, the most "cruel" position for an athlete, because the podium was right in front of you and you couldn't reach it.
在那之后，我选择了出国学习深造，完成了十个月的访美学习。
After that, I chose to study abroad for further studies and completed a ten-month visit to the United States to study.
2017年全运会前，我选择了复出。
I chose to come back before the 2017 National Games.
理想是美好的，现实却寸步难行。
The ideal is beautiful, but the reality is impossible.
由于级别改革，我在湖北女子摔跤队找不到合适的对手训练，只能去男队训练，经常被男队员摔飞。
Due to the grade reform, I could not find suitable opponent training in Hubei women's wrestling team, can only go to the men's team training, often by the men's team.
男队员的动作速度快。
The men are quick at action.
一次，我的头杵到了地上，倒地后，头和身子全部麻木了，半天才爬起来。
Once, I pestle on the ground, fell to the ground, head and body all numb, half a day before getting up.
检查发现，伤到了颈部的神经根，左半边身体失去知觉，左手连撑衣杆都拿不起来。
The examination found injuries to the nerve roots of the neck, loss of consciousness on the left side of the body and inability to lift the left hand even from the pole.
旧伤加新伤，很多人不看好我参赛全运会。
Old injuries plus new injuries, many people do not like my participation in the National Games.
可我不服输。
But I won't concede.
每天训练前都提前去医务室扎针治疗，从颈部到手指一天就是二十多针。
Every day before training to the infirmary needle treatment, from the neck to fingers is more than 20 needles a day.
训练不能摔实战就练力量，恢复保持体能就去跑步，一天一天的坚持下来，业余时间全用来一个一个分析对手。
Training can not break the actual battle on the strength, to restore physical strength to run, day by day perseverance, spare time is used to analyze a rival.
最终，我挺过来了，创造了湖北女子摔跤队在全运会上的最好成绩。
Finally, I survived, creating Hubei women's wrestling team in the National Games in the best results.
那年备战全运会的期间，我报考了湖北省体育局的公务员，通过笔试、面试，最终被录用，留在了武汉工作。
That year during the preparation for the National Games, I applied for the Hubei Provincial Sports Bureau civil servants, passed the written examination, the interview, was finally hired, stayed in Wuhan to work.
退役后的我，没离开体育的老本行，我喜欢这样的节奏，为了一场场的比赛忙碌着，为了一个个小目标坚持着。
After I retired, did not leave the sports of the old line, I like this rhythm, for each game busy, for a small goal insisted.
而且，现在的我终于能回家过年了。
Besides, now I can finally go home to celebrate the New Year.
这么多年没回家，村的房子高了，路宽了，曾经的邻里邻居却已经认不出我了。
So many years did not go home, the village house is high, the road is wide, once neighbors have not recognized me.
老家的人都喜欢热闹，过年时爱串门、摆宴、打麻将，这个春节却见不到了。
The people in the hometown like to be lively, love to visit the door, put on a feast, playing mahjong, but this Spring Festival can not see.
回到家里，我特意把家里的那副麻将也收了起来，为此，还差点跟长辈们吵了起来。
At home, I specially put home that pair of mahjong also collected, for this reason, and almost quarreled with the elders.
这样不同的年味，说来也挺有趣的。
It is interesting to say that the smell of the year is different.
02恐慌与无助：封城前两天途径汉口火车站，微信得知师姐一家感染2月3日，原本是东京奥运会拳击项目亚大区的资格赛在武汉举行的日子。
02 Panic and helplessness: two days before the closure of the Hankou railway station, Weixin learned that the infection February 3, the original Tokyo Olympic boxing program sub-regional qualification game in Wuhan on the day.
我们竞赛处的同事们很早就开始筹备，为了迎接比赛，我们初四就要回到武汉准备赛前工作，所以改了调休，提前两天回家过年。
In order to meet the competition, we have to return to Wuhan on the fourth day of the competition to prepare for the pre-match work, so we changed the holiday, two days early home for the New Year.
1月21日，我途径汉口火车站回老家过年。
January 21, I pass Hankou railway station back home to celebrate the New Year.
下车时，钟南山院士的采访已经刷遍了朋友圈——新冠病毒确定人传人。
When I got off the bus, Zhong Nan Shan academician's interview had brushed all over the circle of friends - the new crown virus determiner person-to-person.
到家了，我却特别害怕。
When I got home, I was scared.
脑海里不停回想着自己在汉口火车站的每一个细节。
In my mind, I kept thinking about every detail of my train station in Hankou.
看着身边的家里人，还有年幼的小侄女，心里面止不住地发慌，胡思乱想的情绪根本控制不了，我完全不知道该怎样面对接下来可能会发生的一切。
Looking at the family, there are young nieces, heart can not help but panic, cranky emotions simply can not control, I do not know how to face what may happen next.
爸爸把家里院子的铁门锁上了，“闭门谢客”，家里面的亲戚知道我回来也只是隔着院子门吼两声打招呼。
My father locked the iron door in the courtyard and "closed the door." Relatives inside the house knew that I had come back with only two yelling through the yard door.
1月23日，武汉“封城”了。
On January 23, Wuhan "closed the city."
我的心被复杂的情绪挤占着，庆幸自己已经出城又忍不住担心身体、挂念武汉的亲友……不知所措。
My heart is crowded with complex emotions, glad that they have left the city and can not help but worry about the body, Wuhan relatives and friends... at a loss.
封城后的第二天就是除夕夜。
The day after the closure is New Year's Eve.
我在微信里收到了很多外地朋友的祝福和问候，一些很久不联系的朋友也发来信息，还有身在国外的朋友询问我，需不需要物资，同事的工作群里，大家的问候语变成了汇报体温的数字。
I received a lot of greetings from friends in the field, some friends who have not been in contact for a long time, and friends in foreign countries asked me if I needed supplies.
特殊的日子里，温暖，其实很简单。
The special day, warm, actually very simple.
封城之后的武汉疫情发生以来，我一直不敢刷微博，我不敢去面对那些不断上涨的冰冷数字和医护人员的汗水、泪水。
Since the outbreak of Wuhan after the closure of the city, I have been afraid to brush micro-blog, I dare not face those rising cold figures and the sweat, tears of medical personnel.
但我每天都会关注朋友圈，因为实在担心身在武汉的朋友出现状况。
But I watch out for friends every day because I am really worried about the situation of my friends in Wuhan.
直到那天，我从朋友圈得知，摔跤队的师姐一家，都感染了。
Until that day, I learned from friends that the wrestling team's sister family, are infected.
我懵了，在对话框里的打字写了又删，我不知道该怎样安慰师姐，身在武汉的围城之外，我像是把拳头砸在了棉花上，有力却使不出。
I Meng, in the dialog box of the typewriter wrote and deleted, I do not know how to comfort her, in Wuhan outside the siege of the city, I like to throw fists on the cotton, strong but not.
我只能一边安慰她一边逗她开心，“一定要快点好起来啊！我还想吃阿姨包的饺子呢！我们潜江这儿的龙虾要上市了，你们什么时候来，我邀请你们来家里做客！”我想，也许情绪轻松一些，身体也会好很多吧！2月3日的晚上，湖北体育局下的洪山体育馆接到改建“方舱医院”的通知，系统里不少滞留在武汉的同事都成了志愿者。
I can only comfort her and amuse her, "I must get better soon! I also want to eat dumplings Auntie bag! When you will come, I would like to invite you to come home!" I thought, Hubei Sports Bureau Hongshan Stadium received the notice to rebuild "the cabin hospital," many colleagues in the system became volunteers.
一通宵的忙碌，那里就变身成了一座容纳800张床位的“方舱医院”，等待感染新型冠状病毒肺炎的轻症病人到来。
After a busy night, the hospital was transformed into an 800-bed "square cabin hospital" waiting for the arrival of a minor patient infected with the new coronavirus pneumonia.
那一刻，我打心眼里敬佩我的同事们，也为他们感到自豪！洪山体育馆变身方舱医院03基层防疫志愿者的感悟：人生的价值就是被需要在家隔离的14天，我经常一个人躺在床上发呆，多少有些茫然、消沉。
At that moment, I admired my colleagues and felt proud of them! The value of life is the 14 days we need to be isolated at home. I often lie alone in bed, a little dazed and depressed.
心想着，要是能做一些事情，能够力所能及地帮一点忙，总比没事可做强，起码你会觉得自己是被需要的。
Think, if you can do something, can do a little help, is better than nothing, at least you will feel that you are needed.
我们村一共只有6名村干部，要服务10个村组，村干部每天需要用大喇叭宣传、发传单、检查路障、路口执勤、物资采购、维护秩序、登记人员、协调邻里....于是，一出隔离期我就想到去村委会报到，申请投入到村里的疫情防控工作中。
There were only six village officials in our village to serve the 10 village groups. The village cadres needed to use loudspeakers, hand out leaflets, check roadblocks, intersections, procurement of goods, maintenance of order, registration of personnel, coordination of neighbourhoods... So, after the isolation period, I wanted to report to the village committee and apply for the village epidemic prevention and control.
如今，我主要负责村里一组和十组村民的生活物资采购。
Today, I am mainly responsible for the village group and 10 groups of villagers procurement of supplies.
每天走访两个村组56户人家，统计所需的生活必备品，挨家挨户地问询、确认、发放，一趟下来就要三个小时左右，每天早上9点出门要忙到下午5点。
Every day, 56 families in two village groups are visited to check on the necessities of life, to inquire from house to house, to confirm, to distribute, to come down about three hours at a time, every morning at 9 a.m. to go out until 5 p.m.
许晴每天的统计表为了防控疫情，村里的大道都封了，只剩下崎岖难走的小路。
Xu Qing every day statistical table in order to prevent and control the epidemic situation, the village roads are closed, leaving only rugged paths.
加上我常年不在村里，人和路都不熟悉，爸爸每天就开着“敞篷车”陪我送货，哥哥、弟弟也会帮忙搬运，奶奶、妈妈每天准备好饭菜，好让我们安心地为村民们服务，就连小侄女都有任务：在家里人累得使不出力气时，逗大家开心、给大伙儿打气。
Besides, I was away from the village all year round, and people and roads were unfamiliar. My father drove a "convertible" with me every day. My brother and brother would help me with the delivery. Grandma and my mother prepared the food every day so that we could serve the villagers safely.
从米面粮油到内裤、纸尿裤还有难运的甘蔗，每天采购的东西五花八门，装满几辆三轮车。
From rice noodle oil to panties, diapers and tough sugarcane, the daily purchases range from a wide variety of items to a few tricycles.
有时，运货的三轮车停在小路边，一个不注意，送完货却发现车已经溜到小河沟里，一行人又得狼狈地拉车，“抢救”物资。
Sometimes, the tri-wheel truck stopped at the side of the road, one did not pay attention to the delivery of goods, but found that the car has slipped into the ditch, the line of people have to pull awkwardly, "rescue" material.
许晴为村民们采购的物资成为一名基层防疫志愿者，很多人都说我是在帮助别人，但其实他们也在帮我。
Xu Qing became a grass-roots epidemic prevention volunteer for the villagers. Many people said I was helping others, but they were also helping me.
很多时候，人和人之间就是这样一种相互需求的关系。
Most of the time, people and people are such a relationship of mutual need.
越是艰难的时刻，越需要我们每个人都往前迈一步，每走出的一个小步，都会给对方带来更大的信心。
The more difficult the moment, the more we each need to take a step forward, every small step will bring more confidence to the other side.
04从被劝说收起武汉身份证到小孩子的敬礼，能被信任真好记得观察期刚结束那天，我陪父亲出门到镇上买药。
From being persuaded to put away Wuhan identity cards to children's presents, it's easy to remember the day after the observation, I accompanied my father out to town to buy medicine.
结账出示身份证时，有人劝我收起武汉身份证。
I was advised to collect my Wuhan identity card when I showed my identity card.
当我提出可以帮忙时，也被婉拒说“等有需要帮忙会再联系你”。
When I offered to help, I was also declined to say "I will contact you when I need help."
那一刻，我的心里有一种难以名状的感觉，也许是苦涩吧？我想，湖北省内的人都不可避免地对武汉出现这样的情绪，更没法想象武汉现在是怎样的状况。
At that moment, my heart has an indescribable feeling, perhaps bitter? I think, people in Hubei Province inevitably such feelings toward Wuhan, let alone imagine the state of Wuhan now.
刚开始做采购工作时，爸爸都会陪我一起去。
When I first started doing the shopping, my father would go with me.
登门统计物资需求时会有很多人不理解我们，甚至张口就问，“你们是不是拿工资了？”“干一个月给你们开多少工资啊？” “你这东西是不是买贵了？”听到这些话，我的心里特别不是滋味。
A lot of people don't understand us when they come to the door, and even open their mouths and ask, "Are you getting paid?" "How much do you get for a month?" "Are you buying this stuff?"
许晴坐在爸爸的“敞篷车”上走访村民开始时超市的物资紧缺，常用物品经常给了这家、缺了那家，我们没少挨埋怨。
Xu Qing sat on his father's "convertible" to visit the villagers at the beginning of the supermarket supplies, commonly used items are often given to the family, lack of the house, we are not less complained.
最夸张的，有的人家买的袋装香菇不太新鲜，泡发好撕碎后跟我们提出退货，随后还向村干部“告状”。
The most exaggerated, some people buy bags of mushrooms are not very fresh, bubble hair after we put forward a return, and then to village cadres "complaints."
我们一家人忙活了一天，事前垫钱事后还可能倒贴。
Our family has been busy all day, the money in advance may also be posted backwards.
好在时间一长，我们掌握了更合理的物资分配方法，村里人也渐渐理解了我们的工作。
Fortunately, with the passage of time, we got a more reasonable distribution of materials, and gradually the villagers began to understand our work.
每天上门统计时，小朋友们都会兴奋地围着我转圈圈，看着我胳膊上带着的红袖章，认真地给我敬了个礼，可爱极了。
Every day when the door statistics, the children will be excited to circle around me, looking at my arm with the red armband, I sincerely salute, lovely.
现在，不管早晚，只要我们敲门统计，大家都笑脸相迎，还能说上两句玩笑话。
Now, sooner or later, when we knock on the door, everyone smiles and laughs and laughs.
这样单纯的生活，也挺好。
Such a simple life, but also very good.
人和人之间的相处不就是这样吗？如果能给对方多一点信任，多一点理解的话，很多事情大家都会轻松很多，也会更简单一些。
If we can give each other more trust and understanding, many things will be easier and simpler for us.
平淡却繁忙的日子过了一个月，留守在武汉的同事们也相继开始居家复工。
Plain but busy days after a month, the colleagues left behind in Wuhan also began to work at home.
我也挺想回武汉的，那里也有我的家，有我在乎的朋友。
I also quite want to go back to Wuhan, there also have my home, I care about the friends.
武汉依旧在封城，围城外的我是如此无能为力，围城里的生活我依旧无法想象。
Wuhan is still closed in the city, the siege outside of me is so powerless, the siege of life I still can not imagine.
多想早一天摘掉口罩，回到武汉去见想见的人。
I wish I could take off my mask one day earlier and go back to Wuhan to see someone I want to see.
那一刻的我们，笑容一定会很美吧！05结语：等春来2月的最后一天，我拍到老家院子里的蚕豆花开了，春天来了。
We must have a beautiful smile at that moment! On the last day of February, I took pictures of the beans in my hometown yard blossoming and spring came.
师姐的父母已经治愈出院了，症状较轻的师姐在做最后的观察。
Sister's parents have been cured of discharge, the symptoms of the younger sister in the last observation.
朋友圈里看到熟悉的队友、国家摔跤队的后辈们开始前往国外备战奥运资格赛，迈出了进军东京奥运会的步伐。
Friends saw the familiar teammate, the national wrestling team's descendants began to go abroad to prepare for the Olympic qualifying match, took steps to enter the Tokyo Olympic Games.
是啊，没有一个冬天不可逾越，没有一个春天不会到来。
Yes, there is no winter that is impassable, no spring that does not come.
院子里的蚕豆花开了今年是个闰年，体育人也习惯了用“四”的倍数来纪年。
The yard of broad beans blooming this year is a leap year, sports people are used to using "four" times to chronicle.
希望四年后的这一天，当每个人回想起今天时，依旧心怀感恩。
I hope that four years from now, when everyone recalls today, they will still be grateful.
扫描下方二维码，了解更多体育资讯。
Scan the bottom two-dimensional code for more information about sports.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
返乡世界冠军的志愿者之路：从被劝收起武汉身份证，到小孩给敬礼。
Volunteer road to returning home to the world champion: from being persuaded to collect Wuhan identity cards, to children to salute.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "腾讯体育";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "返乡世界冠军的志愿者之路：从被劝收起武汉身份证，到小孩给敬礼";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; From being persuaded to collect
var msg_desc = "没有一个冬天不可逾越，没有一个春天不会到来。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Not a winter is insurmountable, not a spring never comes.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="腾讯体育";。
Var title = & quot; Tencent & quot; & quot; & quot;
