因疫情被困武汉两个月 围棋六段李喆：数字背后牺牲惨烈。
Due to the epidemic situation trapped Wuhan for two months Weiqi section six Zhe Li: figures behind the tragic sacrifice.
张蕾。
Zhang Lei.
腾讯体育                      。
Tencent Sports.
腾讯体育。
Tencent Sports.
腾讯网体育频道官方账号。
QQ Sports Channel official account number.
“封城”的日子里，武汉人李喆体会了恐惧、悲痛、愤怒、不解、希望等等各种混杂的情绪。
During the days of "closure," Wuhan Zhe Li experienced mixed feelings of fear, grief, anger, confusion, hope and so on.
作为一名围棋手，自处不是一件难事；但这段正在经历的特殊时期，他看到、听到、想到的事情，正在影响着他对生活的理解——就如同我们每一个人一样。
It was not difficult to be himself as a chess player, but the things he saw, heard, and thought about during this particular period were affecting his understanding of life - just like every one of us.
这是腾讯体育原创策划《我和我的城》第一篇，围棋手李喆的故事。
This is Tencent sports originality plan "I and my city" the first part, Go player Li Zhe story.
Play我是围棋六段李喆，武汉人。
I'm David Li from Weiqi, from Wuhan.
做职业棋手多年，已经习惯了在北京的生活，只会在年节或者特殊团聚的日子回到家乡。
After years as a professional chess player, I have become used to life in Beijing and will only return home on holidays or special reunions.
17年前的“非典”疫情没有给我留下太多印象，只记得很多比赛都停了。
The SARS epidemic 17 years ago did not impress me much, only to remember that many games were over.
那一年我14岁，获得了中国围棋甲级联赛的最佳新人奖，痴迷于围棋的世界。
I was 14 that year and won the best rookie award in the Chinese Go A League, obsessed with the world of Go.
17年后的现在，新冠肺炎疫情肆虐，我，在武汉的家里，度过一段时间感很模糊、各种情绪交杂的日子。
Seventeen years later, now, with the new crown pneumonia ravaging my home in Wuhan, I spent some time feeling vague and mixed emotions.
“谣言”2019年12月31日，我在网上看到微信截图，说武汉出现了“类似SARS的传染病”。
"Rumor" On December 31, 2019, I saw a micro-letter screenshot, said Wuhan appeared "SARS-like infectious diseases."
将近一个月后，我才知道，微信里说这话的人，叫李文亮。
It was nearly a month before I learned that the name of the person in the letter was Li Wenliang.
当时我在外地，按计划是第二天回武汉。
I was out of town and returned to Wuhan the next day, as planned.
看到传言之后，我们家里人就商量，还要不要回武汉过年。
Seeing the rumor, our family will discuss whether to go back to Wuhan for the New Year.
我的母亲在医院工作，她问了一些人，觉得情况“可能还好”。
My mother, who works in a hospital, asked people if the situation was "probably okay."
我们决定还是先回武汉再说。
We decided to go back to Wuhan first.
我们去药房买了口罩，戴着回到武汉。
We went to the pharmacy to buy a mask and went back to Wuhan.
2020年1月5日，我们外出聚餐，同席的是我妈的朋友，还有我的发小，好几家人。
On January 5, 2020, we went out to dinner with my mother's friends and my small hair, several people.
席间有位做医疗器械方面的人，拿出他带的N95口罩，给在座的每人发了一个。
There was a man who was working on medical equipment. He took out his N95 mask and gave one to everyone here.
他告诫说，“现在的情况很严重了。
"The situation is serious," he cautioned.
”那天吃饭的很多是医生，但大部分人还不是很了解这个事情到底是怎么回事。
"Many of the people who ate that day were doctors, but most of them didn't quite understand what was going on.
我们家也是，除了之前的那个截图，我们没有听说其他消息。
So is my family. We haven't heard anything else except the screenshot above.
有位医生朋友在提到“没有明显证据人传人”的时候表达了质疑，因为他知道他们医院早期收治过一对病人夫妻，其中一人没有出过门，不可能是共同暴露在病毒环境中导致的染病。
A doctor friend questioned the idea of "no obvious evidence-to-person" because he knew that his hospital had treated a couple of patients earlier in life, and that one of them had not been out of the house and could not have been infected by the virus.
这是我第一次听说这个事情很严重。
This is the first time I've heard that this is serious.
我每天看通报，但从数据看，情况并没有很糟糕。
I read the briefing every day, but from the data, the situation is not very bad.
棋手李喆不过防患于未然的警觉我还是有的，凡是出门，口罩我一直戴着。
Chess Zhe Li is just as alert as I am. I still wear a mask every time I go out.
我劝过一些人戴口罩，但经常有人觉得我“想得太多”。
I have advised some people to wear masks, but I am often thought of as "thinking too much."
1月18日，我们大家庭聚会。
January 18th, our big family reunion.
餐馆不大，爆满，服务员忙到来不及上菜。
The restaurant was small and full, and the waiter was too busy to serve.
目之所及，大家都在热烈的气氛中准备迎接新的一年。
As far as we can see, everyone is preparing for the new year in a warm atmosphere.
同一天，我又碰到之前跟我们表达对“没有明显证据人传人”言论愤怒的那位医生——他后来也是他们医院新冠肺炎专家组的成员之一。
On the same day, I came across the same doctor who had previously expressed his anger at the "no obvious witness-to-person" statement - and who had later been a member of their hospital's panel on new crowns and pneumonia.
他对我们说，疫情已经很严重了，发热门诊排着长队，根本住不下，很多病人高度疑似，但来一下医院，还得回家，或者去别家医院，“没有控制”。
He told us that the epidemic was already severe, with long queues at the fever clinic, and many patients were highly suspicious, but when they arrived at the hospital, they had to go home, or to another hospital, "out of control."
他们无法做核酸检测，也就无法确诊，官方的数据也就看不出显著的增长。
They do not have access to nucleic acid testing, so diagnosis cannot be made, and there is no significant increase in official data.
我听到这个，有荒谬感。
I hear that. it's ridiculous.
之前我一直关注通报数字，那个数字看上去让人觉得这个病是很可控的，但一听到这么多人其实是高度疑似但没有做检测的，我就觉得很恐怖了。
I've been keeping an eye on the numbers, and that number seems manageable, but it scares me to hear that so many people are highly suspected but not tested.
那位医生跟我说，“这怎么得了。
The doctor said to me, "How could that be?
”我还听说有医生因为翻拍病历或者复印病历而遭到了处分。
"I also heard of doctors being disciplined for flipping medical records or copying medical records.
也是在1月18日那天，我母亲开始咳嗽。
It was also on January 18 that my mother began to cough.
我去药房给她买药，一路上一个戴口罩的人都没看见。
I went to the drugstore to buy her some medicine, and a man wearing a mask didn't see me along the way.
武汉人的生活，仿佛就跟平常一样。
Wuhan people's life, as if the same as usual.
我在路上拍了张照片，发了朋友圈，就是想提醒大家要戴口罩。
I took a photo on the road and sent out a circle of friends to remind people to wear masks.
但我不敢写什么，因为医生们告诉我，千万不要在网上说什么，我担心我的信息不准确，或者牵连医生朋友。
But I didn't dare to write because the doctors told me never to say anything online. I was worried that my information was inaccurate or implicate my doctor's friends.
对于我隐晦的提醒，有人跟我说“保重”，也有人跟我说，“没有那么严重啦”。
For my veiled reminders, someone told me to "take care" and others told me, "It's not that serious."
咳嗽因为母亲咳嗽，我们担心是这个不明肺炎，也担心留在武汉是否会被传染，就商量着是否要离汉过年。
coughing because of my mother cough, we worried about the unknown pneumonia, and whether to stay in Wuhan will be infected, we discussed whether to leave Han New Year.
再三考虑，还是决定留下。
On second thought, he decided to stay.
如果母亲的咳嗽是因为已经感染了不明肺炎，那么这个时候去外地，恐怕对当地不好。
If my mother's cough is due to unexplained pneumonia, it's probably not good for the local community to go out of town at this time.
另一个考虑是，毕竟对武汉的医疗资源更熟悉，在生活上也更方便些。
Another consideration is, after all, Wuhan's medical resources are more familiar, life is more convenient.
现在回过头来看，如果当时真感染了，留在武汉对个人而言不一定是个好的选择，当时没有意识到会这么严重。
In retrospect, if it had been infected, Wuhan might not have been a good choice for an individual, who didn't realize it was going to be so serious.
两天后，钟南山肯定地说，这个病会人传人。
Two days later, Zhong Nan Shan confirmed that the disease is passed from person to person.
钟南山院士肯定新冠人传人当时心里有点慌。
Academician Zhong Nan Shan confirmed that the new crown bearer was a little nervous.
母亲已经咳嗽得很厉害了。
Mother has got a bad cough.
她在医院工作，咳嗽之前每天上班，应该属于高危人群，她在1月17、18日近距离接触过的同事，有几个后来确诊了。
She works in a hospital and goes to work every day before coughing, which should be a high-risk group, and several of her colleagues she met close to on January 17 and 18 were later confirmed.
可怕的咳嗽持续了20多天。
The terrible cough lasted more than twenty days.
这20多天里，我们每天早上起床，各自戴上口罩，彼此隔离。
For more than 20 days, we get up every morning, put on masks, and isolate each other.
这20多天里，我们每天都要讨论一个问题：要不要去医院做检测？我主张尽量不去，去医院的话交叉感染的风险太大。
For more than 20 days, we've been discussing the question of whether we should go to the hospital for a test.
只能想办法先自己扛。
Just try to carry it on your own.
我网购了指夹血氧仪，本来担心快递不行，没想到后来送到了。
I bought a finger clip oximeter, originally worried express can not, did not expect to deliver later.
不知道那个仪器的准确度怎样，反正测量出来的数据不算太好，有时候勉强正常，有时候比正常稍微低一点。
I don't know how accurate the instrument is, but the measured data are not very good, sometimes barely normal, and sometimes slightly lower than normal.
那段时间就一直在有点恐惧有点担心中度过。
I spent that time in a little bit of fear and a little worry.
妈妈服用的药物，也是靠大家帮忙，才送进来的。
The medicine that mother takes, also depend on everybody to help, just send in.
坚持服药之后，咳嗽有所缓解，我们的心也稍微定了。
After taking the medicine, the cough eased and our heart was still a little bit.
可能只是普通的感冒，或者支气管炎，也有可能是很轻的新冠肺炎感染，我们自己也不知道。
It could be a common cold, or bronchitis, or a very mild infection with pneumonia, which we don't know.
好在20多天后就不咳了，也没有别的症状，我们才安心下来。
Fortunately, after more than 20 days after the cough, there are no other symptoms, we are relieved.
可能是心理作用，也可能是在家里闷时间长了，我和朋友聊起来，发现大家都多少会有一点胸闷气短的感觉。
May be psychological effect, or in the home stuffy time long, I chat with friends, found that we will have a little bit of chest shortness of feeling.
究竟是什么，我们自己也不知道。
We don't even know what it is.
在家里，我有时候会陪妈妈看看剧，刷刷电影。
At home, I sometimes accompany my mother to see the play, brush the movie.
她还是比较乐观的那种，总是说，就算得病了，也没事，能治好。
She is still more optimistic kind, always said, even if the illness, but also nothing, can be cured.
那时候就觉得，没感染，能这么待着，还好。
At the time, I thought, no infection, I could stay like this, okay.
1月18日之后我就几乎没有再出过门。
I hardly ever went out of my house after 18 January.
过年的一个好处是，家里囤了很多副食。
One of the advantages of Spring Festival is that the family hoard a lot of side food.
蔬菜先是一两周买一次，后来小区也封闭管理了，我们就跟着小区统一组织的团购买菜。
Vegetables were bought once or twice a week, and then the district was closed and managed, so we followed the regiment organized by the community to buy vegetables.
小区居民排队领取团购用品妈妈对自己的担心很少，主要害怕传给我。
The community residents queued to receive group purchase supplies mother to their own little worry, mainly afraid to pass on to me.
另外就是她在医院的两个很要好的朋友，感染了，在隔离；还有很多朋友的朋友，病重，或者在一线奋战。
Another was that she had two very close friends in the hospital, infected and isolated; there were many friends who were seriously ill or fighting on the front lines.
对于那些迟迟不能“阳”转“阴”的朋友，妈妈会想办法安慰他们，因为隔离时间长了他们心里会难受。
For those who are slow to "Yang" to "Yin" friends, mother will find ways to comfort them, because the isolation of the long time they will suffer.
还有些因为疑似而隔离的，家庭中会产生一些次生问题，来问我妈怎么办，她就陪他们聊聊。
Some are isolated because of the suspected, the family will generate a number of secondary problems, to ask my mother to do, she accompanied them to chat.
坏消息不时传来。
Bad news comes from time to time.
我们很熟悉的人，有的在医院隔离，有的去世；也能听到有的人生了别的病，但因为医疗资源紧张，无法得到救治而去世——慢性病得不到持续医治的，或者手术完之后无法继续住院的……再就是疫情期间，人去世了，后事没办法处理。
We know people who are quarantined in hospitals, dead; those who have other illnesses, but who die because of lack of medical resources and cannot be treated - chronically ill or unable to remain in hospital after an operation... or who die during an epidemic and have no way of dealing with it afterwards.
类似这些事情，光听到都会让人觉得很难过。
It's hard to hear anything like that.
每天在新闻上看到很多数字，就会想到这数字背后是许多家庭正在发生的真实悲剧。
Every day I read so many numbers on the news that I think of the real tragedy that is happening in so many families.
在家待着这件事本身对我来说并没有多难，可以下棋、读书、写论文。
The fact that I stayed at home was not so difficult for me. I could play chess, read a book, write a paper.
但比较困难的是，在武汉有一种压迫感，好像无处可逃。
But more difficult, there is a sense of oppression in Wuhan, as if there is nowhere to escape.
你会忍不住担心，如果疫情控制不住怎么办？身边的呼喊很多，失望的、求救的……在疫情早期，因为某些工作失误，我们错过了十几天的最佳防控期，导致的灾难，要那么多家庭付出代价。
You can't help but worry, if the epidemic can not control what to do? Shout around a lot, disappointed, cry for help... In the early stage of the epidemic, because of some mistakes, we missed the 10 days of optimal prevention and control period, resulting in the disaster, so many families pay the price.
武汉我出生在武汉。
Wuhan I was born in Wuhan.
小时候我其实不怎么喜欢吃热干面，但是后来去了北京，再回到武汉的时候，每天早上都要去吃上一碗。
When I was young, I didn't really like hot, dry noodles, but then I went to Beijing and back to Wuhan, where I ate a bowl every morning.
实际上，武汉的那些早餐，我换着吃，都要轮到。
In fact, Wuhan of those breakfasts, I change to eat, have to turn.
可能在异乡待久了，对家乡的感情维度也会多起来。
Perhaps in a foreign country for a long time, the emotional dimension of home will also increase.
1月23日，武汉“封城”。
January 23, Wuhan "closed the city."
这意味着武汉人是有很多牺牲的，虽然不是所有人都会遭遇不幸，但从某种意义上来说，整个武汉都在牺牲——武汉人为防止疫情扩散而做出的牺牲。
This means that Wuhan people are a lot of sacrifices, although not everyone will encounter misfortune, but in a sense, the whole Wuhan sacrifice - Wuhan to prevent the spread of the disease made sacrifices.
我听到有医生说，疫情发生早期，经常有病人找他下跪，恳求得到收治，但医生没有办法，收不进去。
I heard doctors say that in the early days of the outbreak, patients often went to him to beg for treatment, but the doctor could not accept it.
单纯从人道主义讲，有条件的话，这些患者应该去外省市，得到救治机会，但在防控疫情的局面下，是做不到的。
From a purely humanitarian point of view, if the conditions, these patients should go to foreign provinces and cities, access to treatment, but in the situation of prevention and control of the epidemic, it is not possible.
病人的牺牲是很惨烈的，尤其在疫情发生早期，武汉的病死率远高于外地。
The patient's sacrifice was tragic, especially in the early stages of the epidemic, Wuhan mortality rate far higher than the field.
封城之后的武汉，没有了往日的车水马龙（图源网络）医护人员的牺牲也很惨烈。
Wuhan after the closure of the city, without the old traffic (source network) the sacrifice of medical personnel is also very tragic.
我母亲他们医院，最早的时候腾出了一层楼给感染的医护人员隔离，后来变成三层楼，再住不下了，就改到分院去住，后来又搬了回来。
My mother, whose hospital had vacated a floor at the earliest to isolate the infected paramedics, became a three-storey house, moved to a wing, and later moved back.
我不知道他们现在有几层楼，但已经确诊了200多个医护人员。
I don't know how many floors they have now, but I've identified more than 200 paramedics.
尽管处境艰难，但这些医护人员，还是在顽强地做事情。
In spite of the difficult situation, these medical workers are still tenaciously doing things.
我看到他们戴了一天手套的手，皲裂、浮肿……很感激所有在一线的医护人员、建筑工人、志愿者等等，他们冒着感染风险日以继夜地工作，非常不容易。
I see their hands, chapped, puffy and worn all day long... I'm grateful to all the front-line health care workers, construction workers, volunteers who work day and night at the risk of infection. It's not easy.
如果要描述我们这些普通的武汉人现在的处境，我觉得，某种意义上来说，是受害者吧。
If we ordinary Wuhan people to describe the current situation, I think, in a sense, it is the victims.
我们没有被感染的武汉人，只能说是运气比较好。
We are not infected Wuhan people, can only be said to be better luck.
因为早先的时候，大家都在外面活动。
Because in the early days, everyone was out there.
那些运气不好的人，可能就永远地离开了，他们的整个家庭就此遭到了让人难以想象的打击。
The unlucky ones may have left forever, and their entire family has been dealt an unimaginable blow.
没被感染的人，是幸存者。
Those who are not infected are survivors.
那些在外地的武汉人、湖北人，也受到很大压力。
Wuhan people and Hubei people who live in other places are also under great pressure.
我听一些同乡讲到疫情初期的情况。
I heard some fellow countrymen talk about the early stages of the epidemic.
比如A，他是湖北人，但其实已经半年没有回来过了，但半夜时分居然有人上门来找他要求去隔离。
For example, A, he is from Hubei, but in fact has not returned for half a year, but in the middle of the night someone came to him and asked for isolation.
海外的人也会遭遇类似的情况。
A similar situation applies to people living abroad.
我们需要阳光照到的地方，还有很多。
We need a place where the sun shines. There's a lot more.
疫情中的社区志愿者（图源网络）“封城”第二天是除夕夜，我已经不记得是怎么过的了……反正没有看春晚，一直在电脑边上查看各种新闻和疫情的信息。
Community Volunteers in the Epidemic (Map Source Network) The next day is New Year's Eve, and I don't remember how... I didn't watch the Spring Festival Gala, but kept checking all kinds of news and epidemic information by the computer.
总觉得想做点什么，希望能帮上忙。
Always feel like doing something. I hope I can help.
微信上看到很多群在行动，有人有能力打通物资链条，把它们送到前线，我没有这个能力，就在武大的北京校友会和北大的湖北校友会那边捐了些钱。
On the micro-letter saw that many groups are moving, someone has the ability to break through the material chain and send them to the front line, I do not have the ability, just in WuDa Beijing Alumni Association and Hubei Alumni Association donated some money.
同时，我知道很多棋手也在关注疫情，很多人问我情况怎么样，能不能帮把手出个力。
At the same time, I know a lot of chess players are also watching the epidemic, many people asked me how the situation, can help a hand.
我就想着在围棋界发起一个倡议，跟围棋协会汇报了我的想法，总局反馈回来说，因为我身在武汉，那么就以我的名义去号召大家捐款。
I would like to launch an initiative in the chess circle, with the Weiqi Association reported my ideas, the General Administration reported back, because I am in Wuhan, then on my behalf to call for donations.
于是，1月25日，我发起了一个围棋界的捐款倡议。
So, on January 25, I launched a donation initiative for the chess world.
根据一些朋友的经验，我们没有把善款交给中间环节，而是直接联系了医院，走了一条直达医院账户的路，把募集上来的善款捐了出去。
According to the experience of some friends, instead of giving the money to the middle, we contacted the hospital directly and took a direct route to the hospital's account, donating the money collected.
真实我相信，这次疫情对很多人的人生观念都会产生影响，我个人就有这样的感受，对生活的想法，跟以前不一样了。
I believe that this epidemic will have an impact on the lives of many people, I personally feel that the life of the idea, not the same as before.
以前我们会有一种错觉，以为我们对生活有掌控力。
We used to have the illusion that we had control over our lives.
但其实，生活是很有偶然性的。
But in fact, life is very accidental.
很多事情我们能够控制，我们制定计划、然后去执行；我们有很多“希望”。
There are many things we can control, we make plans, we carry them out; we have many "hopes."
但现实中，时常事与愿违。
In reality, however, things often backfire.
17年前，“非典”肆虐的时候，我只有14岁，是那一年围甲联赛的最佳新人，还获得了拼搏奖。
Seventeen years ago, when SARS raged, I was 14 years old, the best rookie of that year's Scudetto and won the Winning Award.
对那时的记忆不多，最重要的印象就是很多比赛都停了，各回各家，在网上下棋。
The memory of that time is not much, the most important impression is that many games have stopped, go back to their homes, playing chess on the Internet.
那时候也比较懵懂，脑子里只有棋，其他的事情基本上不关注，痴迷在围棋本身的世界里。
At that time was also quite ignorant, mind only chess, other things basically do not pay attention to, obsessed with Go itself in the world.
14岁时，李喆获得了围甲联赛的“最佳新人”“非典”经历的冲击，对我而言没有这次强烈。
At the age of 14, David Li took the brunt of the Sars' Best New Arrival, or SARS, experience for me.
也因为那时的互联网资讯还没有现在这么发达，许多非典的相关信息是在后来的回顾报道中才看到的。
And because the Internet was not as developed as it is now, much of the information about SARS came later in the retrospective.
现在，我会思考很多比如人是怎么回事，人应该怎样去生活，以及，我要做什么。
Now, I'm going to think about things like what happens to people, how people should live, and what I have to do.
这次对我内心冲击最大的是李文亮医生。
The biggest impact on my heart this time is Dr. Lee Wenliang.
我们最早看见他的微信截图时并不知道他的名字，知道他被约谈，也不知道他的名字。
We did not know his name when we first saw his micrograph, we knew that he had been interviewed and that he did not know his name.
后来我妈接到同事打来的电话，说那个被约谈的医生，感染了，在重症监护室，很危险。
Then my mom got a call from a colleague that the doctor she was interviewing with was infected and dangerous in the intensive care unit.
那位同事打来电话的时候，是哭着说的。
The colleague was crying when he called.
我们听了，都心里难受得不行。
We all felt sick at hearing it.
但那个时候，我们仍然不知道他的名字。
But back then, we still didn't know his name.
我当时甚至有一种冲动：如果我感染了，我就能去医院问一些细节，我要把他的事情写出来。
I even had the impulse to go to the hospital and ask for some details if I got the infection. I wanted to write about him.
我想去做这个事情，他应该被公众知道，我想说出他的名字。
I want to do this, he should be known to the public, I want to say his name.
1月28日，北京青年报刊登了对李文亮医生的采访，他终于被大家知晓。
January 28, the Beijing Youth Daily published an interview with Dr. Lee Wenliang, he was finally known.
后来看到他开微博、接受采访，我们以为一切都变好了，他会慢慢康复。
Then we saw him on a tweet and an interview, and we thought everything was going well and he was going to get better.
2月6日晚上，我母亲在他们医生的群里看到了李文亮医生去世的消息。
On the evening of February 6, my mother saw the death of Dr. Li Wenliang in the group of their doctors.
所有人都不敢相信。
Everybody can't believe it.
我又哭了，心里太难受，觉得太不公平了。
I cried again, feeling too miserable and unfair.
李文亮医生通过这次的事情，相信很多人对于自己的处境更明白了，对世界的认识更加清楚。
Dr. Li Wenliang through this incident, I believe that many people have a better understanding of their own situation, the world is better known.
我们生存在一套体系之中，有些危险、有些实情是被遮蔽的，但我们因为自身的利益考虑或者因为轻信，很容易看不清或者胆怯，被那些纷乱干扰，无法做出正确的判断。
We live in a system in which some dangers, some truths, are obscured, but it is easy for us to see or fear for our own good or because of our credulity, and to be disturbed by those who cannot make a correct judgment.
我想，人应该更勇敢一些，摆脱既有意识和利益的羁绊，用理性去寻找和坚持真实的东西，它们是真正有力量有价值的。
I think people should be braver, get rid of the shackles of consciousness and interests, and use reason to find and insist on the real things, they are really powerful and valuable.
我们每个人都对社会负有责任，我们的每个选择都对社会构成影响。
Each of us has a responsibility to society, and each of our choices has an impact on society.
很多带来恶果的行为并不一定是出于恶意，更多是出于无知与浅薄，这些行为的常态化就会恶化社会风气，这就要靠启蒙、靠教育、靠读书。
Many of the bad actions do not necessarily come from malice, but rather from ignorance and superficiality. Normalization of these behaviors worsens the social climate, which depends on enlightenment, education, and reading.
经典书籍中的知识与智慧让我们跳出现有的结构而更能理解自己与社会的关系，理解自己的责任与权利。
Knowledge and wisdom in classic books enable us to jump at existing structures to better understand our relationships with society and our responsibilities and rights.
这段时期可能正是读书的好时候，能让我们对书上的理论和故事更有贴近感。
This may be a good time to read, to make the books more relevant to the theory and story.
下棋时的李喆封闭在家的日子里，除了读书、下棋，我也会有一些关于围棋与当下联系的哲思。
While playing chess, David Li shuts up at home. In addition to reading and playing chess, I also have some philosophic thoughts about Go and its connection with the moment.
从竞技上来讲，这段特殊的经历对我今后的围棋之路不会有什么影响。
Competitively, this particular experience will have no effect on my future chess career.
我思考得比较多的，是围棋的教益。
I think more about the lessons of Go.
围棋更多地是教会我们策略，处理问题的时候，怎么做能够更有效率、收益更大，怎样能去达到一个整体的目标。
Go is to teach us more strategies, how to deal with problems, how to do more efficient, more profitable, how to achieve the goal of a whole.
自古以来，从围棋中得来的比喻在社会层面广为人知。
Since ancient times, the metaphor obtained from Go has been well known on the social level.
这些比喻有些是正向的，但有些，是危险的。
Some of these metaphors are positive, but some are dangerous.
比如，把人比作棋子。
For example, liken people to pawn.
围棋中的策略，是为了达到整体目标而构建的，所以有些棋子可能是弃子，在实施策略的过程中，要被牺牲掉。
The strategy in Go is to achieve the overall goal of the construction, so some pieces may be abandoned, in the implementation of the strategy, to be sacrificed.
但如果这个逻辑推广到社会中，就是反伦理的，是危险的。
But if this logic is extended to society, it is anti-ethical and dangerous.
在我们的日常思维中，要避免把人当作棋子，人不是棋子，每个人的基本的权利，应该得到尊重。
In our daily thinking, we should avoid treating people as pawns, people are not pawns, and everyone's basic rights should be respected.
扫描下方二维码，了解更多体育资讯。
Scan the bottom two-dimensional code for more information about sports.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
因疫情被困武汉两个月 围棋六段李喆：数字背后牺牲惨烈。
Due to the epidemic situation trapped Wuhan for two months Weiqi section six Zhe Li: figures behind the tragic sacrifice.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "体育";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & P & quot;;
var nickname = "腾讯体育";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "因疫情被困武汉两个月 围棋六段李喆：数字背后牺牲惨烈";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "李喆在武汉的家里，度过一段时间感很模糊、各种情绪交杂的日子。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; David Li spent some vague, moody days at his Wuhan home.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="腾讯体育";。
Var title = & quot; Tencent & quot; & quot; & quot;
