赛艇世界冠军的“战疫”：为救儿子曾下跪 媳妻母角色转换挣扎。
Rowing World Champion's "Battle Disease": Kneeling down to save his son's role as wife and mother.
腾讯体育                      。
Tencent Sports.
腾讯体育。
Tencent Sports.
腾讯网体育频道官方账号。
QQ Sports Channel official account number.
The following article comes from 腾讯边界。
The following article comes from the Tencent boundary.
Author 耿志方。
Author Gang Zhifang.
腾讯边界。
Tencent borders.
“虽有涯，而则无尽”。
There is a limit, but there is no end.
边界是腾讯体育倾力打造的深度体育原创栏目。
The boundary is the original column of the deep sports created by Tencent sports.
带您在体育的界限之内，解读新闻事件，解密真相内幕，解构体育时空。
Take you within the boundaries of sports, interpret news events, decrypt the truth, deconstruct sports space-time.
在这里，不只是现场。
Here, not just on the spot.
。
.
每年3月8日，我们都会讲些女人的故事。
Every year on March 8th, we tell stories about women.
她们中的一些，将我们已知千年的女性优秀特质发挥到了极致，比如以柔克刚，比如为母则刚。
Some of them, such as Iroquois, for example, and Mum-Gon, played to the extreme the qualities of women we have known for thousands of years.
她们中的另一些，将性别平等意识发展后的女性新机会充分地把握住了，比如参与更广泛的社会分工，比如打破性别刻板印象，她们也刚劲有力或者野心勃勃。
Others, who have fully grasped new opportunities for women as a result of the development of gender awareness, such as participation in the wider social division of labour, such as breaking down gender stereotypes, are also strong or ambitious.
今年的女人节有点特殊。
Women's Day this year is a bit special.
新冠肺炎的阴霾还未散去，我们停不下来关注疫情中的人。
The haze of new crown pneumonia is not yet over, and we can't stop looking at people in the epidemic.
赛艇世界冠军裴佳云的家庭在疫情期间受到重创，丈夫去世，儿子和婆婆感染。
Kayak world champion Pei Jiayun's family was hit hard during the outbreak, her husband died and his son and mother-in-law became infected.
她要撑起整个家。
She's gonna prop up the whole family.
从事竞技运动和因此而取得的荣誉改变了她苦孩子出身的命运，但当灾难来临，她体会和面对的，是时代的一粒尘，落在眼前变成的一座山。
Athletic sports and the honour she gained from it changed the fate of her bitter child, but when disaster struck, what she realized and faced was a speck of the times that fell on a mountain in front of her.
这是《我和我的城》女人节特辑之裴佳云的故事。
This is the story of Pei Jiayun in the Women's Festival series "Me and My City."
Play“我的家庭条件，在武汉生活还算过得去，比上不足比下有余，没太大经济压力，但经历这次疫情后，我会做一些改变。
"I have more than enough money to live in Wuhan, I don't have much financial pressure, but after this epidemic, I will make some changes.
”说这句话时，裴佳云语气平静、坚定。
When he said this, Pei Jiayun's tone was calm and firm.
作为一位赛艇世锦赛冠军、亚运会冠军，她和不少中产一样，有车有房，日子殷实。
As a rowing world champion, the Asian Games champion, she and many middle-class, have a car, a house, a solid day.
这是裴佳云通过拼搏、意志换来的阶层转化，而今又面临考验，不同的是，有关生死。
This is Pei Jiayun through the struggle, will in exchange for the class transformation, and now face the test, is different, about life and death.
设计/王烨 插画/郭兰英1隔离点的简单生活裴佳云一般早上六点多起床，除了洗漱、吃饭，几乎都戴着口罩，哪怕是睡觉时，都小心翼翼。
Designs / Wang Ye illustrations / Guo Lanyin 1 Isolation point simple life Pei Jiayun generally get up at more than 6 a.m., except wash, eat, almost all wear masks, even when sleeping carefully.
她目前仍在武汉洪山区一处隔离点生活，数次核酸检测都呈阴性，自身症状也在向好发展。
She is still living in a secluded spot in the Hongshan area of Wuhan and has tested negative for nucleic acid several times.
有时候她跟隔壁屋通个电话，询问对方的症状，吃了什么药，进行了一些简单交流。
Sometimes she calls the next room, asks what her partner's symptoms are, what kind of medication she takes, and makes some simple conversations.
到用餐时间，工作人员会先敲门，然后把餐食放在门口，等她自取。
At mealtimes, the staff would knock on the door and then leave the meal at the door, waiting for her to take it.
隔离点的生活平平淡淡。
Life at the quarantine site is flat.
裴佳云本来也不怎么发朋友圈，这倒符合同事对她的印象，“性格内向，平时话不多。
Pei Jia-yun did not have a lot of friends, which is in line with her colleague's impression of her, "introverted, usually not much.
”她会刷手机，关注一些疫情相关的权威信息，或是不想再像以前那样了，容易导致对自身生存状况的误判。
She wipes her phone, pays attention to some authoritative information about the epidemic, or doesn't want to be like before, leading to misjudgments about her own survival.
有时，她会花一些心思，写感谢的话，发给那些捐款捐物，以及协调帮助的人。
Sometimes she would devote some thought and words of gratitude to those who had contributed and coordinated their help.
房间不大，里面摆放着橙子、梨、牛奶等，这是亲戚同事等给提供的营养品。
The room was small and contained oranges, pears, milk, etc. which were given by relatives and colleagues.
在裴佳云看来，一日三餐外，这些不能落下，毕竟身体要紧。
In Pei Jiayun's view, three meals a day, these can not fall, after all, the health matters.
隔离期间，她会看看电视，调到体育频道，看一下女排或女篮的比赛，这或与她早前的体育职业生涯有关，也或是为了找寻一些家的气息。
During the break, she would watch TV, switch to the sports channel, watch a women's volleyball or women's basketball match, either in connection with her earlier sporting career or in search of a home atmosphere.
裴佳云曾是赛艇运动员（图片源于网络）2三八节总会送礼物的丈夫身后，消毒用掉了一整瓶84裴佳云的丈夫也是赛艇运动员，身高亦很突出，有一米九，其曾在全运会、亚锦赛上获得过金牌。
Pei Jiayun was a rower (pictured on the Internet). After her husband, who gave gifts at the 8th Festival, disinfected and used up a bottle of 84 Pei Jiayun's husband was also a rower. He was also very tall and had won gold medals at the National Games and the Asian Championship.
退役后组织给安排了工作，但单位不久便倒闭。
After the retirement, the organization was given work, but it soon went out of business.
为了谋生，丈夫换过很多工作。
In order to earn a living, my husband changed jobs.
两人1986年相识相知，结婚生子，虽然偶有拌嘴，但整体来说，小日子过得平稳融洽。
The two met in 1986, married and had children, although occasionally quarrel, but overall, the day passed smoothly and smoothly.
在裴佳云眼里，丈夫是个浪漫的人。
In Pei Jiayun's eyes, the husband is a romantic person.
他会在水果上给画娃娃，也会给她送玫瑰。
He would paint the doll on the fruit and send her roses.
即便在工资只有几百块的时候，3月8日女人节这天也会买礼物送妻子，一花就是一个月工资，特别大方。
Even if the salary is only a few hundred, March 8 Women's Day will also buy gifts to his wife, a month of wages, is particularly generous.
今年2月3日凌晨，因感染新冠肺炎，裴佳云的丈夫不幸去世。
In the early hours of February 3 this year, Pei Jiayun's husband died after contracting pneumonia.
他生前在武昌一家酒店上班，保安队长，工资5000元左右。
He worked in a hotel in Wuchang, security team leader, wages of about 5000 yuan.
1月28日，裴佳云的丈夫出现不适，有发热症状。
On January 28, Pei Jiayun's husband developed symptoms of fever.
不久，裴佳云84岁的婆婆也出现了类似症状。
Soon after, Pei Jiayun's 84-year-old mother-in-law developed similar symptoms.
但到医院检查，只能得出”病毒性肺炎“的结论，其时还做不了核酸检测，只能居家隔离。
But to the hospital check-up, can only get "viral pneumonia" conclusion, then can not do nucleic acid testing, can only be isolated at home.
后来CT拍片确认是感染了新冠肺炎。
CT was later confirmed to be infected with New Crown Pneumonia.
但是直到去世，2月1日做的核酸检测结果都没出来。
But by the time of his death, none of the nucleic acid tests done on February 1 had turned up.
“殡仪馆的人来之前要求我们要把我老公用被单包着，整个房间要进行消毒。
"Before the funeral parlour came we were asked to wrap my husband in a sheet and to sterilize the whole room.
这个过程只有我跟我婆婆两个人，收拾以后，洒了一瓶84消毒液。
This process is only me and my mother-in-law, after cleaning up, spilled a bottle of 84 disinfectant.
”疫情中一家殡仪馆的工作人员（图片源于网络）3“我当时真的跪下来了”丈夫去世后的第二天，“儿子就跟我说，妈妈，我跟爸爸症状一样了，我又在出汗、拉肚子了。
The day after my husband died, my son told me, Mom, I had the same symptoms as Dad and I was sweating and had diarrhea.
我一听我都没办法了，我一下子吓得不行。
I have no choice but to listen to me. I am scared out of my wits.
”事后裴佳云回忆，可能是早前儿子给他爸做心肺复苏，手接触造成的。
"Pei Jia-yun after the event, may be his son earlier to do cardiopulmonary resuscitation, hand contact caused.
为了能让儿子住院，先要找社区协调，做核酸检测，有结果才能住院。
In order to be able to hospitalize his son, the first community coordination, nucleic acid testing, the results of hospitalization.
尽管知道入院极其困难，但裴佳云管不了那么多，豁出去了。
Despite knowing that admission was extremely difficult, Pei Jia-yun couldn't manage that much and went for it.
居委会跟她的住所不在同一个院，她为了出小区门，差点跟门卫急了。
The neighborhood committee was not in the same courtyard as her house, and she almost hurried with the doorman to get out of the neighborhood.
终于来到社区居委会，裴佳云请求他们送儿子去医院。
Finally came to the neighborhood committee, Pei Jiayun asked them to send their son to the hospital.
“我当时真的跪下来了，我真的没办法控制我自己了，哭着求他们。
"I really got down on my knees and I really couldn't control myself and cried and begged them.
”“世界冠军”的身份帮不上她什么。
"Being a world champion won't help her much.
社区工作人员当时能做的，也只是登记、上报等待协调和安排。
All that the community workers could have done was to register, report for coordination and arrange.
裴佳云说，她能理解社区工作人员，毕竟当时的医疗资源太有限了。
Ms. Pei says she understands community workers, who at the time had limited medical resources.
她的工作单位，湖北省体育局水上运动中心也联系社区，为她提供了一定帮助。
Her work unit, Hubei Provincial Sports Bureau Water Sports Center also contacted the community, to provide her with some help.
当时的裴佳云只能把希望寄托在社区身上，因为公交系统停运，私家车也不允许上路，除非有车证或者与防疫相关。
Pei Jia-yun had to place his hopes on the community because the bus system was shut down and private cars were not allowed to go on the road unless they had a car permit or were related to vaccination.
“那次真的，把我搞得很痛心，很痛心。
"That was the real thing, and it made me very sad.
”裴佳云说，“我从来不求人。
'said Pei Jia-yun.
我觉得我自己能过就过了……当时真是（因为是）我儿子，不知道怎么办好。
I felt like I could do it all by myself... really (because) my son didn't know what to do.
”后来，社区派了车子把孩子送去做了核酸检测，呈现阳性，进而终于得以送入方舱医院治疗。
Later, the community sent a car to test the child for nucleic acid, which proved positive and sent him to the cabin hospital for treatment.
2月5日，儿子的检测结果呈现阳性，当晚，裴佳云和婆婆一起住进了隔离点，儿子则于次日送入方舱医院治疗。
On Feb. 5, his son tested positive. That night, Pei lived in quarantine with his mother-in-law, and his son was taken to the cabin hospital the next day for treatment.
武汉的方舱医院（图片源于网络）4儿子是她最大的骄傲裴佳云很爱自己的儿子，她记得很多关于儿子成长的细节。
The son is her biggest pride. Pei Jiayun loves her son very much. She remembers many details about his growing up.
上幼儿园时，上公开课，家长也去听课，她印象比较深。
In kindergarten, open classes, parents also go to attend classes, she was more impressed.
“老师出了一个题目，数学题，17+4，他用了好像是两种方法，一是把17+4分成了17+3+1，一是把17分成了16+1，然后+4。
"The teacher had a problem with math, 17 + 4, and he used what seemed to be two approaches: divide 17 + 4 into 17 + 3 + 1 and 17 into 16 + 1 and then + 4.
”裴佳云为儿子骄傲：“四岁半有这个思维，我觉得可以了。
"Pei Jiayun is proud of his son:" Four and a half years of thinking, I think it is OK.
”在很多家长看来，裴佳云教育孩子的方式不够严格。
For many parents, Mr Pei's approach to educating children is not rigorous enough.
上小学时有一段时间，老师老说她儿子：你就在那个最后一排坐着，你愿意玩，你就继续三国杀，不要影响别人。
When you were in elementary school, the teacher used to say to her son, You are sitting in the back row. If you want to play, you can go on killing three countries without affecting others.
这种“放逐”，一方面是因为孩子个儿高，另一方面是“不大认真听课”。
The banishment was due partly to the child's height and partly to a "lack of attention" to the lessons.
但裴佳云不觉得这是问题，毕竟“孩子早一天预习了”。
But Pei Jiayun does not feel this is a problem, after all, "the child previews a day earlier."
读初中时，有一次儿子说累了，想在家有针对性地复习，她听着儿子陈述了一些理由，觉得成立，就同意他休假了一天。
In junior high school, her son said he was tired and wanted to review at home in a purposeful way. She listened to her son state some reasons and agreed to take a day off.
“那天恰好是模拟考试，他没参加，很多学生就说很羡慕有这样的家长，一些家长就觉得我做的不对。
"It happened to be a mock exam, and he didn't take it. Many students said they envied me for having such a parent, and some parents thought I was doing something wrong.
”不管怎样，儿子总算没有辜负她的信任。
"In any case, her son had not failed her.
按照裴佳云的说法，尽管儿子高考发挥一般，但还是凭借平时的良好基础考取了武汉的一所211高校，这让她很自豪。
According to Pei Jiayun, although her son played a general entrance examination, but still relying on a good basis to win Wuhan University 211, which made her proud.
儿子身高1.97米，但没有继承父母的事业，学习的专业跟体育无关。
My son is 1.97m tall, but he does not inherit his parents' career and his major is not related to sports.
对此，裴佳云也比较淡然，说，这样挺好。
To this, Pei Jiayun also relatively indifferent, said, this is very good.
裴佳云曾经靠体育改变了命运（图片源于网络）5交待儿子很懂事。
Pei Jiayun once changed the destiny by the sports (picture originates from the network) 5 tells the son is very sensible.
裴佳云的婆婆生病，儿子很是担心。
Pei Jiayun's mother-in-law was ill and his son was worried.
随着诊疗形势的发展，CT检查也被作为新冠肺炎确诊的标准，基于这一点，婆婆于2月13日住进了火神山医院。
With the development of the diagnosis and treatment situation, CT examination was also used as the standard of diagnosis of new crown pneumonia, based on which mother-in-law was admitted to Mount Fire Hospital on February 13.
婆婆入院的过程也很艰辛。
Her mother-in-law also had a hard time getting hospitalized.
裴佳云四处奔走，有一次甚至恳求医院加床，当然，遭到了拒绝。
Pei Jia-yun ran around and once even begged the hospital to add a bed, which of course was refused.
所幸，医疗资源紧张的局面逐渐扭转，据裴佳云说，婆婆在得到治疗之后现已出院，"在另一个隔离点隔离观察。
Fortunately, the strain on medical resources has gradually been reversed and, according to Pei, her mother-in-law has now been discharged from hospital after treatment; she was quarantined at another isolation site.
”对于家里现在的“顶梁柱”裴佳云来说，婆婆出院了，自己也算是对丈夫有了交待。
"For the family now the" pillar "Pei Jiayun, mother-in-law discharged from the hospital, their husband is also a confession.
外人无法想象，对这位老人来说，白发人送黑发人，这段时间的日子是如何的煎熬，毕竟她唯一的儿子，才51岁。
It's hard for outsiders to imagine what a tough time it would be for the old man, whose gray-haired man gave him black hair. After all, her only son was only 51 years old.
人们无从得知，她有多少次以泪洗面。
No one knows how many times she has washed her face in tears.
裴佳云家人曾在网上求助人们能够知道的是，裴佳云作为儿媳、妻子、母亲的角色，一直在奋力抗争，或者说，是“挣扎”。
Pei Jiayun's family once sought help on the Internet people can know, Pei Jiayun's role as daughter-in-law, wife, mother, has been struggling, or "struggling."
与她当初奋力划桨，渴望改变被固化的阶层不同，这次是为了能求家人的活命。
Unlike when she paddled, eager to change the solidified class, this time for the sake of her family.
她面对的，不是其他人的拼搏，而是病毒和有限的医疗资源。
She faces not the struggle of others, but the virus and limited medical resources.
甚至有一些情绪，都没办法真正畅快地发泄一场。
Even some emotions, there is no way to really relaxed a vent.
6命运在被隔离的日子里，裴佳云不禁想起曾经的自己，初始是灰色的，后来逐渐上色。
Fate in the days of isolation, Pei Jiayun can not help but think of their own, the initial gray, and then gradually color.
她老家在黄冈市罗田县农村，她是家中6个孩子中的老三，初中毕业后便留在老家务农。
Her hometown in Luotian County, Huanggang City, she is the family of six children of the third, junior high school after the home farming.
有一年多时间，裴佳云的生活就是干农活，放牛、打猪草、养蚕，以及做家务。
More than a year, Pei Jiayun's life is to do farm work, cattle, pig grass, sericulture, and do housework.
裴佳云回忆，那是1986年的样子，还有八九天过年，爸妈要去一小时公交车车程之外的地方接外婆，而姐姐去了城区做工。
Pei recalled that it was 1986, and eight or nine days to celebrate the New Year. My parents were going to pick her up an hour away from the bus and my sister was working in the city.
只有裴佳云和弟弟妹妹在家。
Only Pei Jiayun and his younger brother and sister were at home.
“我家来了一个人，后来我才知道，是湖北省省队水上项目的教练，也是我的启蒙教练，给我量身高，做柔性测试等，接着就问我愿不愿意去划船。
"There was a man from my family who later learned that he was the coach of the Hubei Provincial Team Water Project and my enlightenment coach. He measured me for height, gave me a soft test, and then asked me if I would like to go boating.
他原本是去县体委招生的，体委领导说，他看到过有个学生个子比较高，也许是个好苗子，于是他们开着车来了我家。
He used to go to the county sports committee to recruit students, the leadership of the sports committee said he saw a student taller, perhaps a good seedling, so they drove to my home.
”15岁的裴佳云身高1.76米，体重70公斤，现在身高1.8米。
The 15-year-old Pei Jiayun is 1.76m tall, weighs 70 kg and is 1.8 metres tall.
她的伯乐，便是罗田县时任体委主任朱寿儒。
Her Bole is the then director of the Luotian County Sports Committee Zhu Shouyu.
省队教练来的时候，裴佳云不知道划船是什么样的，对方就描述，“船就像梭子一样在水上，有什么（就）支撑什么。
When the provincial coach came, Pei Jia-yun didn't know what it was like to row. "The boat was like a shuttle on the water.
”她当即答应，“我愿意去，因为当时我家里很穷嘛，吃了上顿没下顿，穿不暖睡不好，反正我就觉得特别穷，我要改变一下我的命运。
"She readily promised," I will go, for I was very poor at that time, and I felt very poor after my last meal, and could not sleep well, and I wanted to change my fate.
”她向堂叔借了50元，然后把被子和行李一捆，给家里面留了一个纸条，跟爸妈说，“去当运动员了”，就跟着教练们离开了家乡。
She borrowed 50 yuan from her cousin, tied up the covers and luggage, left a message for her parents saying, "Go be an athlete," and left home with the coaches.
裴佳云知道，自己除了身高，也没运动基础和其他优势。
Pei Jiayun knows, oneself besides height, also do not have athletic foundation and other advantage.
要强的她练习非常刻苦，被人称为“拼命三郎”。
She is very hard-working, known as the "fight for life".
经过三个月训练，排名就能挤进前三。
After three months of training, the rankings can be squeezed into the top three.
比赛中的赛艇运动员（图片源于网络）“一些优秀队员回到队里，得到敲锣打鼓的迎接，那场面也激励了我。
"Some of the best players came back to the team and were greeted with gongs and drums, and that inspired me," he said.
经过半年训练，我就成功被选为集训队员了，能拿到集训费了。
After half a year of training, I was successfully selected as a trainee and was able to get a training fee.
”要知道，这之前是试训，伙食、服装都得自费，而转为集训队员后，就成了正式队员，就算是有了“工资”——一个月58元，算是缓解了家庭负担。
You know, it was a trial run, and the food and clothes were all self-funded, and when you moved on to the coaching staff, you became a regular player, even with a salary of 58 yuan a month, which was a relief to the family.
体育为她的生活带来了回报。
Sport has paid off in her life.
一年后她便进入了国家队，成绩也一路从全国青年赛的亚军到全国冠军。
A year later, she joined the national team and made her way from runner-up in the National Youth League to national championship.
1992年7月，裴佳云入选中国体育代表团，参加了巴塞罗那奥运会，获8人单桨有舵手第五名。
In July 1992, Pei Jiayun was elected to the Chinese sports delegation and took part in the Barcelona Olympics.
次年在捷克举行的世界赛艇锦标赛中获4人单桨冠军。
The following year, he won the 4-man singles title at the Czech World Rowing Championships.
两年后的广岛亚运会上，她与队友配合，获得双人单桨第一名。
Two years later, at the Hiroshima Asian Games, she won the first place in the double sculls with her teammates.
至此，裴佳云荣获的全国冠军、世界冠军达11个，社会荣誉也纷至沓来，省级的“三八红旗手”、“劳动模范”、“新长征突击手标兵”、“十佳运动员”以及国家体育运动荣誉奖章。
At this point, Pei Jiayun won the national champion, the world champion up to 11, social honor also poured in, provincial "March 8 Red Flag," "Labor Model," "New Long March Sniper," "Top Ten Athletes" and the National Medal of Sport Honor.
2001年，裴佳云入选了国家体育总局出版的《共和国体育明星》。
In 2001, Pei Jiayun was selected for the publication of Sports Star of the Republic by the State General Administration of Sports.
2008年，北京奥运会的火炬传递到了湖北宜昌，裴佳云担任了三峡坝区段的第一棒火炬手，那是万人瞩目的中心，她右手握着火炬，头发飘起，奔向未来。
In 2008, the torch was carried to Yichang, Hubei Province. Pei Jiayun was the first torchbearer in the dam section of the Three Gorges Dam.
2008年裴佳云传递北京奥运火炬（图片源于网络）7努力让自己更强大一场疫情让裴佳云更深地认识到，灾难面前，“大家都是平等的”。
Pei Jiayun 2008 Beijing Olympic Torch (photo taken from the Internet) 7 Efforts to make himself more powerful An outbreak of the epidemic has made Pei realize that in the face of disaster, "all are equal."
当生活以痛吻她，她没有过度地情绪发泄和抱怨，而是勇敢地承担着一切，以及对迟到的救助表达理解和感激。
When life kisses her in pain, she doesn't let off steam and complain too much. Instead, she bravely takes on everything and expresses her understanding and appreciation for being late for help.
这可能都和她几十年严格的体育训练所造就的人格相关，只是命运的赛场不同于体育，一下子就生离死别。
It may have something to do with the personality she created after decades of rigorous physical training, but the playing field of fate is different from that of sports.
从她武汉家里，到上班地点，如果不堵车的话，驾车也就三四十分钟，不算远。
From her home in Wuhan, to her place of work, if there is no traffic jam, driving for thirty or forty minutes, not too far.
但通常，裴佳云是坐公司班车去上下班，在班车地点到家里这段靠电动车代步。
But usually, Pei Jiayun takes the company bus to and from work, from the bus site to the home by electric car.
她说，经此一疫，今后会做很多改变，会更追求点生活质量。
'After this epidemic, a lot of changes will be made, 'she said.' We will be looking for more quality of life.
她想买些保险，再就是存一些钱，万一再有个什么情况，会有一定抵御风险的能力。
She wanted to buy some insurance and save some money and, in the event of anything else, she would have a degree of resilience.
对膝盖损伤小的锻炼，她想加强一下。
She wants to strengthen her little knee workout.
“因为我是运动员出身，得过类风湿，关节有些疼，退役后运动没那么多了。
"I was born as an athlete, got rheumatism, had some pains in my joints and didn't exercise much after I retired.
”裴佳云说，游泳、自行车都是可选项，再做一些拉伸，都是好的。
'Swimming, bicycling are all optional, 'says Mr. Pei.' Do some stretching, and it's good.
早前单位体检，她有点贫血，不过她没放在心上，“这个是很不好的，今后我会多爱护自己身体点，有针对性检查一下原因，在饮食等方面做一些调理。
Earlier unit physical examination, she was a bit anaemic, but she did not pay attention to, "this is very bad, I will take more care of their own body, targeted check-up reasons, in diet and other aspects of doing some conditioning.
”未来，生活还要继续。
"In the future, life will continue.
裴佳云说，她会不时提醒家人注重健康。
Pei said she would remind her family of the importance of health from time to time.
她还说，她会努力让自己的身体和心理，都变得更强大。
She also said she would try to make her body and mind stronger.
走过疫情，裴佳云还将继续生活在这座城市中扫描下方二维码，了解更多体育资讯。
After the outbreak, Pei will continue to live in the city to scan the two-dimensional code below, to learn more about sports.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
赛艇世界冠军的“战疫”：为救儿子曾下跪 媳妻母角色转换挣扎。
Rowing World Champion's "Battle Disease": Kneeling down to save his son's role as wife and mother.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "腾讯体育";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "赛艇世界冠军的“战疫”：为救儿子曾下跪 媳妻母角色转换挣扎";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "时代的一粒尘，落在眼前变成的一座山。
var msg _ desc = & quot; a speck of the times, fell in front of it and turned into a mountain.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="腾讯体育";。
Var title = & quot; Tencent & quot; & quot; & quot;
