四人殉职，四人濒危——武汉中心医院“至暗时刻”。
Four people died in the line of duty, four endangered - Wuhan Central Hospital "to the dark hour."
南方周末记者。
Southern Weekend Journalist.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲3月10日，武汉市中心医院南京路院区，李文亮医生生前曾在这里接受治疗。
March 10, Wuhan city central hospital Nanjing Road courtyard district, where Dr. Lee Wenliang had been treated.
2月20日时，这个院区也成为了定点医院。
On 20 February, the compound was also designated as a designated hospital.
不过，目前该医院的发热门诊已经不再接收新冠肺炎的患者，急诊和外科逐渐恢复。
However, the hospital's fever clinic is no longer receiving patients with pneumonia, emergency and surgical recovery gradually.
（南方周末记者 王伟凯/图）全文共6293字，阅读大约需要14分钟。
(Southern Weekend reporter Wang Weikai / map) The full text of 6,293 words, reading about 14 minutes.
江主任对她说，“大姐，你来这儿干什么？这里很危险，你办了事赶快走。
Director Jiang said to her, "Sister, what are you doing here? It's dangerous here. You have to go."
”说这句话的时候，他被病人围着，没戴口罩。
"As he said this, he was surrounded by patients and did not wear a mask.
几天后，他确诊感染新冠肺炎，不久后离世。
A few days later, he was diagnosed with pneumonia and died shortly afterwards.
陈小宁记得除夕夜查房，连鞋套都没有，是用垃圾袋套脚。
Chen Xiaoning remembered the New Year's Eve inspection room, even the shoe cover is not, is the use of garbage bag feet.
三位受访医生说，疫情暴发两三个月后的3月8日，才第一次知道书记和院长到隔离病房看望感染的医护人员，他们是在职工群和朋友圈里看到了领导看望住院职工的照片。
Three doctors interviewed said it was only on March 8, two or three months after the outbreak, that the secretary and the president first visited infected health-care workers in the isolation ward, where they saw pictures of leaders visiting hospital staff in the staff and friends' circle.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 张玥 张笛扬 敬奕步 李在磊南方周末实习生 郑伊灵 吴超责任编辑 | 顾策 钱昊平2020年3月9日上午，武汉市中心医院医护人员的微信朋友圈里，第四次点起了蜡烛——眼科副主任朱和平，因感染新冠肺炎去世。
This article began at Southern Weekend without permission to reprint text & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
这是该院眼科因新冠肺炎去世的第三位医生，前两位是梅仲明和李文亮，从前患者称他们为“明亮组合”。
This is the hospital's third doctor to die of pneumonia, the first two are Mei Zhongming and Li Wenliang, formerly known as "bright combination."
“原本要为患者带来光明，如今都走了。
"It was supposed to bring light to the patient, and now it's gone.
”一位该院医生对南方周末记者说。
"a hospital doctor told Southern Weekend reporter.
3月1日，该院甲状腺乳腺外科主任江学庆也因新冠肺炎殉职。
On March 1, Jiang Xueqing, director of thyroid breast surgery at the hospital, also died of pneumonia in the new crown.
他还是该院最近一年评出的唯一一位“重大先进典型”。
He is also the only "major advanced model" awarded by the hospital in the past year.
至此，武汉市中心医院已有4位医生殁于疫情。
So far, four doctors have died in the central hospital in Wuhan.
武汉市中心医院在此次疫情中殉职的四位医生，分别是眼科副主任梅仲明、眼科医生李文亮、眼科副主任朱和平、甲状腺乳腺外科主任江学庆（从左至右）。
The four doctors killed in the outbreak were deputy ophthalmologist Zhongming Mei, ophthalmologist Li Wenliang, deputy ophthalmologist Zhu Heping and Jiang Xueqing, director of thyroid breast surgery (left to right).
（何籽/图）中心医院一线医生杨珥告诉南方周末记者，目前还有四位医生濒危，“我说的是濒危，不是病重”，他强调，这四个人都是包括呼吸衰竭在内的多器官衰竭，并伴有各种不良并发症，“有的全凭外部医疗手段支持、维持生命”。
Yang Er, a front-line doctor at the Central Hospital, told Southern Weekend that four other doctors were at risk. "I'm talking about endangered, not seriously ill." He stressed that all four were suffering from multiple organ failure, including respiratory failure, with all kinds of adverse complications, "some supported and sustained by external medical means."
他说的四位濒危人员分别是副院长王萍、伦理委员会刘励（该院肝胆外科蔡常春主任的妻子）、胸外科副主任医师易凡、泌外科副主任胡卫峰。
The four endangered people are Vice-Dean Wang Ping, Liu Lai, wife of Tsai Changchun, director of liver and gallbladder surgery at the hospital, Yi Fan, deputy director of thoracic surgery, and Hu Weifeng, deputy director of secretive surgery.
南方周末记者获得该院公共卫生科流出的一份《新型冠状病毒疫情处置情况说明》，截至2月9日，上报职工确诊病例68例，纳入医学观察的医务人员266人。
As of February 9, 68 cases of coronavirus infection had been reported, and 266 medical personnel had been admitted to medical observation.
该院两位医生向南方周末记者证实，此前确曾在同事群中看到过这份文件。
Two doctors at the hospital confirmed to Southern Weekend that they had indeed seen the document among colleagues.
根据目前公开的信息，武汉市中心医院医护人员感染情况在武汉十分突出，医护死亡情况堪称最为严重。
According to the open information, Wuhan city central hospital medical staff infection is very prominent, the most serious medical deaths.
1难以上报武汉市中心医院始建于1880年，前身为汉口天主堂医院。
It is difficult to report that Wuhan Central Hospital was founded in 1880 and was formerly known as Hankou Catholic Hospital.
它是武汉市28所三级甲等医院之一，属于武汉市属的公立医院。
It is one of 28 Class A hospitals in Wuhan, which is a public hospital of Wuhan city.
该院有三个院区，其中后湖院区是武汉市征用的第二批定点医院，南京路院区后来也进入定点医院名单。
The hospital has three courtyard areas, among which the Houhu courtyard area is the second batch of designated hospitals requisitioned by Wuhan city.
目前该院有员工4300余人，其中博士、硕士1206人。
It currently employs more than 4,300 people, of whom 1,206 are doctors and masters.
中心医院的后湖院区是距离华南海鲜批发市场最近的医院之一，1.6公里，步行仅需23分钟。
The Houhu District of the Central Hospital is one of the closest hospitals to the South China Wholesale Seafood Market, with a walk of 23 minutes.
它也是新冠肺炎病毒最早出没的地方。
It was also the site of the first outbreak of the New Crown Pneumonia virus.
根据上述《新型冠状病毒疫情处置情况说明》，12月29日下午，后湖院区急诊科医生通知公共卫生科接诊了4例华南海鲜市场病例，病情异常。
On the afternoon of December 29, the emergency department of Houhu Hospital informed the public health department that 4 cases of seafood market in South China had been treated with abnormal condition.
医院致电江汉区疾控，但对方称此前上报的类似病例查了各项病原均无结果，需要汇报领导。
The hospital called Jiang Han District CDC, but the other side said previously reported similar cases have been found to have no results, need to report leadership.
六天后，区疾控仍回复：“等上级通知后再报，具体上报病种等通知。
Six days later, the district disease control still reply: "Wait for superior notice to report again, specific report disease kind and so on notice.
”之后，关于上报给谁，这家医院又遭遇了踢皮球：区卫健委说它是市属医院，报给市里；市卫健委说，属地管辖，报给区里。
The hospital then got kicked back against whom it was reported: the district health committee said it was a municipal hospital and reported it to the city; the municipal health committee said it had territorial jurisdiction and reported it to the district.
1月8日起的三天，终于成功上报14个病例，但其中一个无法确诊，区卫健委让联系区疾控自行采样，区疾控说等区卫健委通知。
Three days from 8 January, 14 cases were finally reported successfully, but one of them could not be confirmed. The District Health Commission asked the district CDC to sample its own samples.
13日，再将一位患者无法采样的信息报告区疾控，得到的回复是一个字，“等”。
On February 13, a patient was unable to sample the information reported to the district disease control, the response is a word, "etc."
从1月11日到16日，该院收到26例职工疑似感染报告。
From January 11 to 16, the hospital received reports of 26 cases of suspected infection among employees.
而据武汉市卫健委公告，截至1月15日，全市医护人员零感染。
According to Wuhan Health Commission notice, as of January 15, the city's medical personnel zero infection.
杨珥说，1月初就有很多患者没有接触华南海鲜市场史，但有了临床症状和影像学依据。
'Since early January, many patients haven't had contact with the history of the South China seafood market, but have clinical symptoms and imaging evidence, 'Mr. Yang said.
此外，陆续有医护人员在接触患者后出现了同样症状。
In addition, a succession of medical personnel in contact with patients after the same symptoms.
“这就是人传人的直接证据”。
"This is direct evidence of human-to-human transmission."
但是关于病情上报，他们收到的要求是不允许填“不明原因肺炎”，乃至“病毒性肺炎”，只能写“肺部感染”。
But when asked to report cases, they were asked not to write "pneumonia for unknown reasons" or even "viral pneumonia," only "lung infection."
他说，肺部感染就是一个很宽泛的疾病了，不能凸显新发病毒，也不能凸显人传人。
Pulmonary infections, he says, are a broad disease that fails to highlight new infections or human-to-human transmission.
他的同事也证实了上述情况。
His colleagues also confirmed the above information.
2不能说的秘密在难以上报的日子里，中心医院里发生了什么呢？一位急诊科医生对12月底的事印象深刻，因为首先发现病例的就是急诊科——好几个患者咳嗽、低热、肺部CT膜玻璃样变。
Unspeakable Secrets What happened at Central Hospital on the hard-to-report dayAn emergency doctor was impressed at the end of December because the first cases were found in the emergency department - coughing in several patients, low fever, and pulmonary CT-film glyphaphy.
医生把患者的肺泡灌洗液拿去测序，得到的结果惊人：“SARS冠状病毒”。
The doctors sequenced the patient's alveolar lotion and the result was amazing: "SARS coronavirus."
这张检验结果的截图，最后成为2019年12月30日李文亮医生在微信群中发布的“祸源”。
This screenshot of the test results turned out to be the "bane of misfortune" published by Dr. Lee Wenliang in a micromessage group on December 30, 2019.
根据该院急诊科艾主任此前对《中国新闻周刊》的回忆，2020年1月1日晚将近0点，她接到医院监察科信息，要求第二天谈话。
According to her earlier recollection of China News Weekly by the director of the hospital's emergency department, near 0 p.m. on 1 January 2020, she received information from the Hospital Supervision Department asking for a conversation the following day.
在谈话过程中，被批评“作为专业人士没有原则，造谣生事，你们这种不负责任的行为导致了社会恐慌，影响了武汉市发展、稳定的局面”。
In the course of the conversation, was criticized as "no principles as professionals, false rumors, your irresponsible behavior led to social panic, affecting the development and stability of Wuhan."
艾主任提及这个病可以人传人，但没有获得任何回应。
Director Ai mentioned that the disease could be passed from person to person, but received no response.
上述急诊科医生对南方周末记者证实，“主任第一时间向上预警，‘SARS回来了’。
The emergency doctor told Southern Weekend reporter that "the director of the first up-warning, 'SARS back'.
但被院领导训斥，很多人在场。
But was scolded by the hospital leadership, many people present.
训斥她用了三句排比句，大意是说擅自发布未经证实的新闻，造成严重社会舆情，如何负责，把我主任当时吓得着实不轻。
She was reprimanded for using three parlance sentences to the effect that the unauthorized publication of unverified news caused serious public opinion and made my director very frightened at the time.
”但该院一位在医学影像科室工作的医生对南方周末记者说，被叫去谈话的，远不止李文亮和艾主任。
But a doctor at the hospital who works in the medical imaging department told Southern Weekend that Li Wenliang and director Ai were not the only people called to talk.
“我们医院很多人被院方叫去谈话，说不能发什么。
"A lot of people in our hospital were called in to talk and said they couldn't do anything.
”他和另一位医生，后来因为发表关于梅仲明、李文亮的哀悼图片，专门被院方找去，让他们删除。
He and another doctor, who later published pictures of Mei Zhongming and Li Wenliang's mourning, were specifically asked to remove them.
在南方周末记者联系的十余位采访对象中，过半受访者表示受到过院方的干预，包括训诫、谈话、被要求删除发布内容、被电话提醒不能发布有关消息等。
More than half of the more than a dozen interviewees contacted by Southern Weekend reporter said they had been interfered with by the hospital, including reprimanding, talking, being asked to delete content and being reminded by telephone that they could not release relevant news.
该院后湖院区一位工作人员记得，那时候“不让声张，物资就更不敢谈了。
A staff member at the back of the courtyard remembers that time "let alone the noise, the materials do not dare to talk about."
我院的很多医护也是那个时候感染的，心痛。
Many of the hospital's medical care was also infected at that time, heartache.
那个时候我很绝望，特别绝望，没有外援，也不让报”。
At that time I was very desperate, especially desperate, no foreign aid, no return. "
有两位采访对象向南方周末记者出示了微信群截图，2019年12月30日，各科室微信群里收到转发自武汉市卫健委的信息：“请大家……不要随意对外发布关于不明原因肺炎的通知及相关信息……否则市卫健委将严肃查处。
Two interviewees showed Southern Weekend reporter microphone group screenshot, on December 30, 2019, each section of the micromail group received a message forwarded from Wuhan City Health Commission: "Please... please... do not arbitrarily release the unknown pneumonia notification and related information... otherwise the city health committee will seriously deal with.
”该院医生陈小宁对南方周末记者说，早期院里统一要求，“不能说，不能戴口罩，怕引起恐慌。
Chen Xiaoning, the hospital's doctor, told Southern Weekend reporter that the early hospital unified demand, "can not say, can not wear masks, for fear of causing panic.
”陈小宁回忆，疫情开始不久的一天，临近下班，院里所有中层紧急开会，口头传达，不得对外提起“冠状病毒”字眼，“管住自己，管住自己的家人”。
Chen recalled that one day shortly before the outbreak began, all middle-level meetings were held in an emergency to convey that the coronavirus could not be mentioned to the public.
当天已经下班的陈小宁，又接到领导电话，必须回医院当场听取传达通知。
Chen Xiaoning, who was off duty that day, received a call from the leader and had to go back to the hospital to hear the announcement.
多位中心医院工作人员向南方周末记者证实，确有收到“不能说”，“不能戴口罩”这些要求，均为口头层层传达。
Central hospital staff confirmed to Southern Weekend reporter, do receive "cannot say", "cannot wear mask" these requirements, are oral layer upon layer.
3“大惊小怪，扰乱军心”此时，与中心医院相隔仅2.6公里、几乎同时发现异常的湖北省中西医结合医院，已经直接将疫情上报到市里和省里。
At this point, the Hubei Province Traditional Chinese and Western Medicine Combine Hospital, which was only 2.6 kilometers away from the central hospital and discovered an anomaly at the same time, reported the outbreak directly to the central and provincial levels.
该院一位人士告诉南方周末记者：“12月27日，意识到可能有传染性，就将当时的患者进行单间隔离，并指导医护人员注意做到个人防护。
"On December 27, aware of the possibility of infection, we isolated the patients in a single room and instructed medical staff to take care of personal protection," a person at the hospital told Southern Weekend.
”但在禁言之后的武汉市中心医院，并没有做到“内紧外松”，防护并未得到加强。
However, after the ban, Wuhan Central Hospital did not achieve "internal tightness", protection has not been strengthened.
杨珥说，在12月底已经频繁上报之后，院领导并未示警，没有通过任何途径让人们紧张起来。
After frequent reports in late December, Mr. Yang said, court officials didn't warn of any way to make people nervous.
甚至有科室负责人戴着口罩去开会，还遭到了批评，“大惊小怪，扰乱军心”。
Some even wear masks to meetings, and have been criticised for "making a fuss and disturbing the military."
同时，院领导通知每个科主任，逐个电话告知每个同事，一律不得外泄病毒的任何消息，“那个电话我接到过”。
At the same time, the hospital leadership notified each section director, one by one phone to inform each colleague, no leakage of any information, "I received that phone call."
杨珥听到多位同事提及，1月上旬，甲状腺乳腺外科主任江学庆戴口罩去开会，被院领导批评。
Yang heard colleagues mention that in early January, thyroid gland surgery director Jiang Xueqing wearing a mask to a meeting, was criticized by hospital leaders.
此后，该院多位医生都看到他没戴口罩。
Since then, several doctors at the hospital have seen him without a mask.
不幸的是，几天后，江主任被感染、确诊，之后做气管插管、机械通气、体外膜肺氧合，一步步衰竭，直至死亡。
Unfortunately, a few days later, Jiang director was infected, diagnosed, and then do tracheal intubation, mechanical ventilation, extracorporeal membrane oxygenation, step by step failure until death.
一位和江学庆同科室的医生对南方周末记者回忆，江主任曾提醒他们“别戴口罩，影响不好。
A doctor with Jiang Xueqing department recalled to Southern Weekend reporter that Jiang had warned them "not to wear masks, bad influence."
”网上流出了一张江学庆笔记本的截图，一条条记载着一段会议记录：“不明原因病毒性肺炎，没有人传人的证据，十条纪律规定，保密纪律，不准到处乱讲乱谈……”陈小宁说，笔记所录就是1月3日的会议，医院组织中层开会，口头传达精神，再口头传达给每个职工。
A screenshot of Jiang Xueqing's notebook appeared on the Internet, recounting minutes of meetings: "Unexplained viral pneumonia, no evidence of human-to-human transmission, 10 disciplinary rules, confidentiality and no random talk..." Chen Xiaoning said the notes were taken at a mid-level meeting organized by the hospital to convey the spirit verbally to every employee.
如今，有87位群成员的江学庆科室的微信群，人们把头像全部换成了一样的黑底蜡烛，只留下一张照片头像，那是已经不能换头像的江学庆本人。
Today, the 87-member Jiang Xueqing section of the micro-group, people have replaced the head of the same black-bottomed candles, leaving only a picture of the head, which is no longer able to change the head of Jiang Xueqing himself.
江主任科室的群成员列表于林是中心医院的退休职工。
Jiang director group members listed in Lin is the central hospital retired staff.
她回忆自己最后一次见到江主任是1月13日下午，他还在专家门诊，还没吃午饭，饭在旁边放着。
She recalled seeing Director Jiang for the last time on the afternoon of January 13. He was still at the specialist clinic and had not had lunch.
江主任对她说，“大姐，你来这儿干什么？这里很危险，你办了事赶快走。
Director Jiang said to her, "Sister, what are you doing here? It's dangerous here. You have to go."
”说这句话的时候，他被病人围着，没戴口罩。
"As he said this, he was surrounded by patients and did not wear a mask.
南方周末记者拿到一份中心医院医生提供的《1月13日病毒性肺炎相关情况报告（南京路）》，南京路院区当天监测密切接触医务人员共计85名，其中发热门诊9人、隔离病房29人、呼吸科34人、眼科13人。
Southern Weekend reporter received a "Report on the Situation of Viral Pneumonia on January 13 (Nanjing Road)" provided by doctors from the Central Hospital. On the same day, the Nanjing Road courtyard area was in close contact with 85 medical staff, including 9 fever clinics, 29 isolation wards, 34 respiratory departments and 13 ophthalmologists.
作为本应远离呼吸道疾病的科室，眼科在这次医护疫情中却伤亡最重。
Ophthalmology, the department that was supposed to stay away from respiratory illnesses, was the hardest hit by the health-care epidemic.
该报告描述，1月10日，一位眼科患者转入隔离病房，11日管床医生李文亮报告发热37.2℃，此后逐日高烧，日渐恶化。
The report describes an ophthalmologist who was transferred to the isolation ward on 10 January. Dr. Li Wenliang reported fever of 37.2 ° C on 11 January and has since had a daily high fever, which has been worsening.
12日上午，另一位眼科医生报告发热37.4℃，此后表现出与李文亮一样的症状。
On the morning of December 12, another ophthalmologist reported a fever of 37.4 degrees Celsius, and has since exhibited the same symptoms as Li.
陈小宁说，之前眼科要求设备科、院感办给相应的物资，为医护人员做防护，但当时的院感办主任只给了一级防护，“一级防护是最差的，三级是最好的”。
Chen Xiaoning said that before the eye equipment department, hospital office to the corresponding materials, for the protection of medical staff, but the hospital director gave only a first-class protection, "the worst level of protection, the best three."
3月9日去世的眼科副主任朱和平是医院的返聘专家，本已退休。
Zhu Heping, deputy director of ophthalmology who passed away on March 9, is a rehiring specialist at the hospital.
陈小宁说，朱医生是个很好的人，感染之后妻女都不在身边，一个人在家拖了十几天，后来被120接到医院，没找任何人帮忙。
After the infection, his wife and daughter were not with him. A man stayed at home for ten days before being taken to the hospital by 120 people without any help.
目前虽有四位医护人员去世，武汉市中心医院的微信公众号上只为江学庆、梅仲明两位医生发布了讣告。
Although four medical personnel died at present, only two doctors issued obituary notices for Jiang Xueqing and Mei Zhongming on the Weixin public ship of Wuhan Central Hospital.
这两位医生的讣告，院方都是在去世后三个小时发出的，但朱医生已去世超过24小时，仍无讣告。
The obituaries of the two doctors were issued three hours after their deaths, but Dr. Zhu was dead for more than 24 hours without an obituary.
南方周末记者为此致电该院公共卫生科，对方回复请联系宣传科。
Southern Weekend reporter calls this hospital public health branch for this, the other party reply please contact the propaganda section.
4物资“弹尽粮绝”盘点中心医院危重症、去世医生所属的科室，分别来自：眼科、甲状腺乳腺外科、消化内科、心外科、泌尿外科、耳鼻喉科、伦理办公室等，非常分散，且普遍与治疗新冠肺炎没有直接相关。
4 Material "out of food" inventory of the central hospital critically ill, the Department of the deceased doctors from: ophthalmology, thyroid breast surgery, digestive medicine, cardiology, urology, ear, nose and throat, ethics offices, etc., are very scattered and generally not directly related to the treatment of Newcomial Pneumonia.
杨珥说，“他们甚至还没来得及正儿八经上前线抗击病毒，就莫名其妙地倒了。
"They didn't even have enough time to fight the virus on the front line, so they collapsed," Yang said.
”倒下的原因在于初期预警不足，且防护设备始终简陋。
The reason for the fall was inadequate early warning and poor protective equipment.
他回忆，1月23日，全院物资告急，大家以个人名义去求援，受到了院方的阻拦，不许私人募捐。
He recalled that on January 23, the hospital supplies were in a state of emergency, and people went for help in their own name.
后来形势逼人，可以募捐，但物资分发混乱，出现各种乱象，比如拉来的东西收不进去、交接的人消失，甚至拉来的物资也不要。
The situation then became so overwhelming that it was possible to raise funds, but the distribution of supplies was chaotic, and there were various kinds of disturbances, such as the inability to receive incoming items, the disappearance of those who were handed over, and even the absence of materials brought in.
医院里有一个负责对接捐赠事宜的医生群，三百多人。
The hospital has a team of more than three hundred doctors who are responsible for docking donations.
南方周末记者看到聊天记录， 2月10日，一位同事在群里说，联系了一千斤大米，“医院竟然不要”。
Southern Weekend reporter saw chat records, February 10, a colleague said in the group, contact 1000 jin of rice, "the hospital should not."
早先，医院曾经“断粮”。
Earlier, hospitals were "off food."
平常食堂2000人，每天两顿饭。
Normal canteen 2000 people, two meals a day.
非常时期，医护和病人都吃住在医院里，一天三顿做6000人的饭，一时供给不足。
In times of emergency, medical staff and patients were housed in hospitals, catering for 6, 000 people three times a day.
1月26日左右，不少医护人员靠吃零食坚持，有的科室“断粮”了一天、有的断了三天。
January 26 around, many medical personnel by eating snacks persist, some departments "off food" for a day, some broken for three days.
更缺乏的是防护物资，特别是防护服。
Even more lacking are protective materials, especially protective clothing.
2月中旬，上述微信群中讨论的话题是如何把雨衣改造为防护服，“据说防水泼溅没有问题，就是看材料的透气性”，还有医生设计了一套“雨衣消毒方案”。
In mid-February, the microphone group discussed how to turn raincoats into protective clothing, saying there was "no problem with splashing, just looking at the permeability of the material," and a "raincoat disinfection plan" devised by doctors.
“那阵子真是弹尽粮绝了，穿什么的都有。
"I've run out of food and drink, and I've got everything to wear.
”有段时间，杨珥把家里的垃圾袋拿去医院当雨衣，用它裹住手脚和脖子。
For a time, Yang took his family's garbage bag to the hospital as a raincoat and wrapped it around his hands and feet and neck.
这个问题，直到外地复工、外地医疗队进入医院，才解决。
The problem will not be resolved until field medical teams are back in the field and in hospital.
杨珥经常去看医院里放防护服的柜子，2月下旬之前，这个六层铁皮柜子，从来都是半空或空空如也。
Yang used to go to the wardrobe in the hospital, and until late February, the six-storey tin cabinet was always half empty or empty.
他发来那时同事所穿防护服的照片，薄如蝉翼，“简直就是裸奔，真的是敢死队”。
He sent in photos of his colleagues wearing protective clothing, thin as cicadas, "it was a run naked, really a death squad."
中心医院医生一度穿着“薄如蝉翼”的防护服 （受访者供图/图）中心医院医生一度穿着“薄如蝉翼”的防护服 （受访者供图/图）据南方周末记者统计，截至2月29日，湖北省五大官方慈善机构向武汉市中心医院捐了口罩15.8万个、防护服3976件。
At one point, doctors at the Central Hospital were donating 158,000 face masks and 3,976 protective clothing to Wuhan city's central hospital in protective clothing thin as cicada wings, according to Southern Weekend reporter.
这是整个疫情期间的捐赠数，官方捐助的防护服数量还不够全院人使用一次。
This is a donation throughout the epidemic, the number of official donations of protective clothing is not enough to use the entire hospital once.
采访中，六位来自不同科室的医生均向南方周末记者证实，物资缺乏到穷尽地步。
In the interview, six doctors from different departments confirmed to Southern Weekend reporter that the lack of supplies to the point of exhaustion.
陈小宁说，一开始隔离措施就几乎没有。
'Initially, the isolation measures were almost non-existent, 'Mr. Chen says.
比如后台部门在工位办公，不到100人的办公楼层，年前已有3人感染，楼里还在用中央空调，“没有开窗，没有通风，没有消毒杀菌”。
For example, back-office departments in the workplace, less than 100 people in the office floor, three years ago has been infected, the building is still using central air-conditioning, "no windows, no ventilation, no sterilization".
“院感办也不说话，院领导也不说话。
"The senate office did not speak, nor did the head of the court.
”他记得除夕夜查房，连鞋套都没有，是用垃圾袋套脚。
"He remembered checking the house on New Year's Eve without a shoe cover and putting his feet in a garbage bag.
口罩最紧缺的时候，里面戴个工业N95，外面再套个外科口罩。
When masks are in short supply, wear an industrial N95 inside and a surgical mask outside.
至于行政职工，不属于一线，领过一盒口罩后就什么都没有了，上班的口罩也是自己找人买的。
As for administrative staff, do not belong to the line, after taking a box of masks on nothing, the mask to work is also their own people to buy.
1月23日、2月6日、2月14日，武汉市中心医院都曾经发布公告募捐防护物资。
On January 23, February 6 and February 14, Wuhan Central Hospital issued notices to solicit donations of protective materials.
2月14日，该院疼痛科主任蔡毅发文呼吁关注武汉医护人员紧缺现状。
Feb. 14, the hospital pain department director Cai Yi Fa called attention to Wuhan shortage of medical personnel.
该院南京路院区的一位ICU护士说，协和、同济医院开始公开征集以后，其他医院才敢发帖，因为这两家是省属医院。
An ICU nurse at the hospital's Nanjing Road district said other hospitals dared post only after a public call from Concorde and Tongji hospitals, which are provincial hospitals.
同样，防护也是，“我们医院是看到同济防护后才敢防护的”，一开始防护服不让穿，怕引起紧张。
Similarly, the protection is, "our hospital is to see the economic protection after protection," the first protective clothing is not allowed to wear, for fear of causing tension.
一位做联络物资志愿者的超声科医生对南方周末记者说，2月19日发通知说可以接受捐款了，才允许接受现金。
An ultrasound doctor who volunteers as a liaison material told Southern Weekend that cash was allowed only after being notified on February 19th that donations would be accepted.
“春节之后很多卖防护用品的厂家都复工了，但我们自己采购物资还很困难，物资都先找捐赠，实在不行了才去采购。
"After the Spring Festival, many of the manufacturers selling protective equipment went back to work, but it was difficult for us to purchase our own materials.
”另外两位医生说，给一线医护的补贴也存在问题，1月的医院津贴到目前还没收到。
Two other doctors said the subsidy for first-line care was problematic and that hospital allowances for January had not yet been received.
作为一线人员，有一次性的6000元补贴，以及每天200元或300元补贴，夜班费180元。
As a front-line staff, there is a one-time allowance of 6,000 yuan, as well as a daily allowance of 200 yuan or 300 yuan, night shift fees of 180 yuan.
上述南京路院区的ICU护士说，她的基本工资“五险一金”扣完以后只有1000元不到，一月份的补贴还没发。
ICU nurses at the Nanjing Road campus said her basic salary of less than 1,000 yuan after the deduction of the "five risks and one gold" has not been paid in January.
但自费从美国买了180个达标口罩，就花了2000多元，还不知道是否能收到。
But at his own expense, he bought 180 compliant masks from the United States, which cost more than 2,000 yuan, and it is not known whether they will be received.
据南方周末记者统计，截至2月29日，五家官方慈善机构给中心医院的拨付资金为1.23亿。
As of February 29, five official charities had allocated 123 million yuan to the central hospital, according to Southern Weekend reporter statistics.
多位医生说，物资匮乏持续到2月底、外面的救援队来了，才得到解决。
Doctors say shortages persisted until late February, when outside rescue teams arrived.
甘肃医疗队105人援助中心医院，其中一位医生对南方周末记者形容，2月初这里主要面临的问题是，病人多、防护用品紧缺、达不到三级防护，进隔离病房都没有N95。
A doctor at the 105-member Gansu Medical Team Assistance Center Hospital told Southern Weekend that the main problems there in early February were the large number of patients, shortages of protective equipment, lack of tertiary protection and the absence of N95 in the isolation ward.
“这个医院管理不好，我们带来的物资不多，全给中心医院支援了。
"The hospital is not well managed, we have not brought much supplies, all to the central hospital support.
”5“这里就像火车站春运的场景”导致医护伤亡的还有一层原因，是隔离措施不到位。
"It's like the scene of a train station spring traffic." Another reason for the casualties is that isolation is not in place.
作为同一批定点医院，武昌医院副院长曾告诉南方周末记者，医院被划为定点医院后，院长刘智明专门请了市疾控专家指导病区改造的隔离措施。
As the same designated hospitals, Wuchang Hospital deputy director told Southern Weekend reporter that the hospital was designated as a designated hospital, President Liu Zhiming specifically asked city disease control experts to guide the transformation of isolation measures.
那时候刘智明常常去病房和门诊考察情况，后来感染，于2月18日去世。
At that time, Liu Zhiming often went to the ward and out-patient visits, but later became infected and died on February 18.
中心医院从疫情之初就承担了大量的救助工作，一位医生说，“一开始金银潭医院开七百多张床位的时候，我们医院也直接开了五百多张床位，当时各种工作根本就没有到位就开了，还没有搞好隔离区、污染区。
At the beginning, when the hospital opened more than 700 beds, we opened more than 500 beds directly. At that time, various jobs were not in place and there was no separation zone or pollution area.
”另一位医生发来的照片上，病人通道和医务人员通道之间，大厅里只隔了一块宣传板，没有从顶部隔开，起不到隔离效果。
Another doctor sent a picture of a hallway between the patient's passageway and medical staff with a single bulletin board in the lobby, not separated from the top, making it less insulating.
杨珥记得，1月6日左右，医院腾出两个病区做隔离病房，加起来也就几十张床，远远不够。
Yang remembered that around January 6, the hospital set aside two sick areas for isolation wards, which add up to dozens of beds, far from enough.
最终后湖院区改造出六百多张床位，还是人满为患。
Eventually, more than 600 beds were converted into the backwater courtyard, which is still overcrowded.
“1月，这里就像火车站春运的场景，病人排队，排着排着倒下了。
"In January, it was like a train station, with patients lining up and falling.
我至少有三个同事，被排队不耐烦的患者拉扯、撕破防护服，动辄有患者来扬言要杀医。
At least three of my colleagues, pulled and torn by impatient patients, were prone to patients threatening to kill them.
”一位后湖院区的医生说，“（某些）院领导我不做评价。
"I don't judge [some of] the leadership," said a doctor in the Houhu district.
我们的护士长、主任、科主任，我要竖大拇指，包括副院长，反正我们临床上的人是非常团结的。
Our head nurse, director, department director, I would like to put up the thumb, including the vice-dean, anyway our clinical people are very united.
”实际上，多位采访对象在受访时表达了对书记、院长的不满。
In fact, many interviewees expressed dissatisfaction with the secretary and dean during the interviews.
一位医生认为他们临床经验不足，“他们一个原来是搞教学的，一个是卫生部门官员。
One doctor said they lacked clinical experience. "One of them used to teach, the other a health official.
”另外一些人则提及，“有官威”“什么都不准说（新冠病毒），哪个说就追责”“人家提意见，也不让说，不重视，搞得我们底下人愤愤不平。
"Others referred to" official authority. "" If you say nothing (the New Crown Virus), you will be held responsible. "" They made us indignant by being asked, not allowed to say, and not valued.
”也有多位受访医生怀念之前的夏家红院长，临床医生出身，知道基层疾苦，经常会在夜班“微服私访”。
Many doctors interviewed missed the former dean, a clinical doctor who knew the hardships of the grass-roots level and often visited at night.
“有一次，他看见夜班医生花了一个小时左右时间分拣化验单，就砸了很多钱上线无纸化办公解决这个问题。
"Once he saw the night doctor spend an hour or so sorting out the slip and splashing a lot of money into paperless office work to solve the problem.
”一位受访医生说。
"said one doctor interviewed.
三位受访医生说，疫情暴发两三个月后的3月8日，才第一次知道书记和院长到隔离病房看望感染的医护人员，他们是在职工群和朋友圈里看到了领导看望住院职工的照片。
Three doctors interviewed said it was only on March 8, two or three months after the outbreak, that the secretary and the president first visited infected health-care workers in the isolation ward, where they saw pictures of leaders visiting hospital staff in the staff and friends' circle.
3月8日院领导看望被感染的医护人员留影 （受访者供图/图）该院退休职工于林说痛惜这件事害了医院，“一个一百多年历史的好医院，职工都很痛心。
2007-9-24 16: 23 2007-9-19 16: 16 2007-9-19 15: 16 2007-09-30 16: 19 2007-09-30 16: 19 2007-09-30 16: 40 2007-09-30 16: 40
等疫情结束，这些都要找医院讨说法。
When the outbreak is over, we'll have to talk to the hospital.
”在杨珥心里，一月底、二月初是这所医院的“至暗时刻”，混沌无序，倍感后怕。
In Yang's mind, late January and early February were the "darkest hours" of the hospital, chaotic and fearful.
他说，在这里，很多人能忍就忍了。
'Here, 'he says,' a lot of people can stand it.
但也有同事说，疫情之后要转行。
But some colleagues say the epidemic should be followed by a change of profession.
他说比起自己，很多同事更有奉献精神、可歌可泣。
He says many of his colleagues are more committed and more vocal than they are.
他的一位同事，家里三个人陆续因为新冠肺炎去世，爷爷、奶奶和公公，她没法给家人在自己的医院找到床位，但仍然每天上班救人，没有请过假。
One of his colleagues, three members of her family, died of pneumonia, and grandpa, grandmother and father-in-law were unable to find beds in their own hospital, but still went to work every day to save lives.
问及他为什么出来说话，他说，“国家兴亡，匹夫有责。
Asked why he spoke out, he said, "The rise and fall of the nation is the responsibility of the husband.
”（应受访者要求，文中杨珥、陈小宁、于林为化名。
At the request of the respondents, Yang Er, Chen Xiaoning and Yu Lin were given aliases.
公众号作者章北海对本文亦有帮助）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The North Sea is also helpful to this article. Click the picture below to continue reading the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
四人殉职，四人濒危——武汉中心医院“至暗时刻”。
Four people died in the line of duty, four endangered - Wuhan Central Hospital "to the dark hour."
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "四人殉职，四人濒危——武汉中心医院“至暗时刻”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Four killed while on duty; and four at risk - & nbsp; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at Wuhan Central Hospital.
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
