全境封锁，医护紧缺，意大利战疫“至暗时刻”。
The entire territory blockades, the medical care is scarce, the Italian epidemic "dark hour."
江玮。
Jianwei.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
位于伦巴第大区贝加莫一家医院的医生克里斯蒂安·萨拉洛里表示：“现在像进入战时状态，可供使用的资源和病重的患者之间比例失衡……我们不得不选择救谁。
Christian Salalori, a doctor at a hospital in Bergamo, Lombardy, said: "Now it is like going to war and there is an imbalance between the resources available and the number of patients who are seriously ill... we have to choose who to save.
”文|《财经》记者江玮编辑|郝洲在3月8日凌晨宣布对整个伦巴第大区进行封锁之后，意大利总理孔特3月9日晚又决定将封锁令的实施范围扩至全国，以遏制新冠肺炎疫情在意大利的蔓延。
Following the announcement in the early morning of 8 March of a blockade of the entire Lombardy region, Italian Prime Minister Corte on the evening of 9 March decided to extend the embargo to cover the entire country to stem the spread of the new crown pneumonia epidemic in Italy.
这一决定将于3月10日起生效，意大利成为疫情暴发以来第一个实施全国性封锁政策的国家。
This decision will enter into force on 10 March, making Italy the first country to implement a nationwide embargo policy since the outbreak.
截至当地时间3月9日，意大利共有9172例确诊新冠肺炎病例，死亡人数463人，是中国以外新冠疫情最严重的国家。
As of March 9, 2007, there were 9,172 confirmed cases of new crown pneumonia in Italy, with 463 deaths, the worst new outbreak outside China.
孔特在发表的电视讲话中称，此前在意大利北部实施的封锁政策将适用于全国范围。
In a televised speech, Conte said the previous embargo policy in northern Italy would be applied nationwide.
他要求人们改变生活方式，待在家中。
He asked people to change their way of life and stay at home.
“我将签署一项法令，它可以总结为：我待在家里。
"I am going to sign a law which can be summed up as: I stay at home.
”孔特说。
'he said.
在4月3日之前，所有公共集会在意大利都将被禁止，包括婚礼、葬礼、音乐会、体育和宗教活动。
Until April 3, all public meetings will be banned in Italy, including weddings, funerals, concerts, sports and religious events.
电影院、剧院、音乐厅、博物馆和学校也将被关闭。
Cinemas, theatres, concert halls, museums and schools will also be closed.
餐馆和酒吧可以继续营业，但营业时间为早上六点到下午六点，且客人之间需要保持至少3英尺（1米）的距离。
Restaurants and bars are open from 6: 00 a.m. to 6: 00 p.m. and guests are required to maintain a minimum distance of 3 feet (1 m).
“为了意大利好，我们必须放弃一些东西。
"We have to give up something for the good of Italy.
我们现在必须这么做，只有在大家一起合作，采取这些更加严格措施的情况下才能做到。
We must do so now, and only if we all work together to take these more stringent measures.
”孔特说。
'he said.
新的法令规定人们只有在紧急情况下才能在各个城市之间通行，违反法令者将面临罚款和最多3个月的监禁。
The new decree stipulates that people may travel between municipalities only in emergency situations, and those who violate the decree face fines and imprisonment for up to three months.
世界卫生组织发言人塔里克·贾萨瑞维奇对《财经》记者表示，疫情发展至这一阶段，采取更主动的措施也许更能限制病毒的传播。
World Health Organization spokesman Tariq Jasarevic told Caijing that at this stage of the epidemic, more proactive measures might be more effective in limiting the spread of the virus.
“保持社交距离已被证明对放缓流感的传播有效。
"Maintaining social distance has been shown to be effective in slowing the spread of influenza.
每个国家根据各自情况和疫情的发展做出自己的决定。
Each country makes its own decisions in accordance with its own circumstances and the evolution of the epidemic.
意大利卫生部门进行了评估，得出的结论是现在采取的措施将有助于控制疫情。
The Italian health sector conducted an assessment and concluded that the measures taken now would help to control the epidemic.
这一阶段关键的是每个人都加入其中，尽一己之力。
The key at this stage is for everyone to join in and do their part.
”贾萨瑞维奇说。
'he said.
孔特在接受意大利《共和报》采访时表示，最近他一直想起英国首相丘吉尔曾经发表的演讲。
In an interview with the Italian newspaper La Repubblica, Conte said he had recently been reminded of speeches made by British Prime Minister Churchill.
他说：“这是我们的至暗时刻，但我们会度过。
"It's our darkest hour, but we're going to make it through it," he said.
”米兰封城3月9日，在米兰封城的第二天，亚历克斯·洛伊不再像往常一样出门去喝一杯咖啡。
"Milan Seal March 9, the day after Milan's closure, Alex Løj did not go out for a cup of coffee as usual.
自从新冠肺炎疫情在意大利爆发以来，除了遛狗和去超市，他和家人已经尽量减少了外出。
Since the outbreak of pneumonia in Italy, he and his family have kept house to a minimum, in addition to walking dogs and going to the supermarket.
他通过网络办公，他儿子所在的学校则开始了网络授课，他的伴侣担忧得最多，总担心自己和家人会因为被传染送进医院。
He worked online, and his son's school started to teach online, and his partner was the most worried, worried that he and his family would be taken to hospital.
此前一天，当洛伊醒来，他发现自己生活了25年的城市竟然被封锁了。
The day before, when Roy woke up, he found his 25-year-old city sealed off.
3月8日凌晨两点，孔特宣布对伦巴第大区和周边14个省份进行封锁，其中包括米兰和威尼斯。
At 2 a.m. on 8 March, Conte announced a blockade of the Lombardy region and 14 surrounding provinces, including Milan and Venice.
“我有点惊讶，我没料到米兰也会被封锁。
"I was a little surprised. I didn't expect Milan to be blocked.
在疫情爆发以后，米兰一度变得非常安静，但上周末已经又逐渐恢复了正常。
After the outbreak, Milan had been very quiet for a while, but by the end of the week it had gradually returned to normal.
”洛伊对《财经》记者表示。
'Mr. Løj told Caijing.
今年2月，意大利政府曾在11个北部市镇采取了封城举措。
In February, the Italian Government launched a cordon-and-conquer initiative in 11 northern municipalities.
3月9日，在米兰封城之后的第一个工作日，洛伊出门拍摄了一小段视频。
On March 9, the first working day after the closure of Milan, Løj went out to shoot a short video.
他发现早高峰的米兰街道依然车来车往，虽然政府建议大家待在家里，但上班的人并不比平时少。
He found that the early rush-hour streets of Milan were still busy, and although the government advised people to stay at home, there were no fewer people at work than usual.
自从疫情爆发以来，洛伊一直在自己的推特账号上更新与新冠肺炎有关的消息。
Since the outbreak, Løj has been updating his Twitter account with news of the outbreak.
尽管政府宣布对多个城市进行封锁，但米兰的机场、火车站、高速公路并没有关闭，部分从米兰机场起降的航班虽然被取消，但旅客仍可以搭乘飞机离开或者抵达米兰。
Milan's airports, railway stations and highways have not been closed, and some flights from Milan airport have been canceled, but passengers can still fly out or arrive in Milan, despite the government's declared blockade of several cities.
目前意大利所有20个大区都发现了确诊病例，其中大部分出现在意大利北部地区。
Confirmed cases have been detected in all 20 regions of Italy, most of them in northern Italy.
周六下午晚些时候，在意大利《晚邮报》率先报道政府可能对米兰等城市进行封锁的消息之后，数以千计的人迅速收好行李涌向米兰中央火车站乘车南下或者驾车逃离米兰。
Late Saturday afternoon, thousands of people packed their bags and rushed south to Milan's central railway station after the Italian Evening Post pioneered a possible government blockade of Milan and other cities.
凌晨两点，孔特在发布会上宣布，禁止民众进入或者离开意大利北部，但伦巴第和其他省份的边境不会关闭，市民只有在紧急的情况下才可以离开。
At 2 a.m., Conte announced at a press conference that people would not be allowed to enter or leave northern Italy, but that the border between Lombardy and other provinces would not be closed and citizens would be allowed to leave only in emergency situations.
这是新冠肺炎疫情爆发以来，西方国家实施的最大规模的封锁措施，居住在这一地区的人口大约有1600万，约为意大利总人口的1/4。
This is the largest blockade ever imposed by a western country since the outbreak of the New Crown Pneumonia, with about 16 million people living in the area, about a quarter of Italy's total population.
尽管警察在进出城的一些地方设置了检查点，想要离开封锁区域的人必须出示可以表明其旅行必要性的文件，比如出于公务、医疗目的或者需要返回家中。
Although the police have set up checkpoints in and out of some parts of the city, persons wishing to leave the closed zone are required to produce documents indicating the necessity of their travel, such as for official business, medical purposes or the need to return to their homes.
但这一封锁政策究竟如何执行，意大利人仍充满困惑，毕竟火车站和机场并未关闭，地铁也在正常运转。
But Italians remain confused about how the embargo will be implemented, given that train stations and airports are not closed and subways are working.
意大利反对党联盟党主席萨尔维尼在一份声明中提出：“澄清，澄清，澄清！”他列出好几个待回答的问题：谁能做什么？能去哪里？谁能去上班？谁能旅行？意大利国家传染病研究所所长朱塞佩·伊波利托表示，所有连夜从北方逃到南方的人对于国家都是一个潜在的风险，他呼吁这些人立刻与卫生部门取得联系，做好隔离的准备。
"Clarify, clarify, clarify!" he said in a statement, citing several unanswered questions: Who can do what? Where can he go? Who can go to work? Who can travel?
在过去两天的时间里已经有超过9000人从北部抵达南部的普利亚大区。
In the past two days, more than 9,000 people have arrived in the southern region of Pulia from the north.
普利亚大区主席埃米利亚诺签署命令，要求所有从北部来的人接受隔离。
Emiliano, president of the region of Puglia, signed a decree demanding that all those from the north be quarantined.
一名在米兰留学的中国学生对《财经》记者表示，留学生去别的城市并不方便，除了回国就只有留在米兰的选择。
A Chinese student studying in Milan told Caijing that it was not convenient for foreign students to go to other cities.
选择留在米兰的她现在基本不出门，除了偶尔出门买吃的，她所在的学校从两周就开始了网络教学。
Having chosen to stay in Milan, she is now largely out of the house, except for occasional shopping, her school has been teaching online for two weeks.
但也有人在封城令下达之前离开了米兰。
But there were also people who left Milan before the fiat was issued.
“意大利的防疫措施没有让人感到安心，大家都不戴口罩，所以我就回来了。
"Italy's vaccination is not reassuring, everyone is not wearing masks, so I came back.
”一位已经离开米兰的中国留学生对《财经》记者表示。
A Chinese student who has left Milan told Caijing.
她于3月6日回到国内，目前正在居家隔离。
She returned to the country on 6 March and is currently living in isolation.
不堪重负的医疗系统在孔特于3月8日凌晨举行的发布会上，他表示意大利的医疗系统正陷入不堪重负的风险。
At a news conference in the early morning hours of March 8, Mr. Conte said Italy's health-care system was in danger of becoming overwhelmed.
在疫情最严重的伦巴第大区，医院开始出现床位短缺的情况。
In the region of Lombardy, where the epidemic is most severe, a shortage of beds has begun in hospitals.
“伦巴第大区医院承受的压力是巨大的，我非常、非常担心病毒对我们医疗体系的影响。
"The pressure on hospitals in Lombardy is enormous, and I am very, very concerned about the impact of the virus on our health care system.
”米兰萨科医院传染科主任马西莫·加利表示。
"Mirasako Hospital Director of Infection, Massimo Gali said.
伦巴第大区重症加强护理病房负责人安东尼奥·佩森蒂在接受意大利媒体采访时表示，尽管伦巴第的医疗体系在意大利处于领先水平，但如今也已经陷入崩溃边缘，他们不得不在医院走道开设重症护理病床。
In an interview with Italian media, Antonio Pessendi, head of the intensive care unit in Lombardy, said that while Lombardy's healthcare system is a leader in Italy, it is now on the verge of collapse, forcing them to open intensive care beds in hospital corridors.
伦巴第公立医院有大约500张重症加护病床，加上私立医院的160张，远远无法满足现在的医疗需求。
The public hospital in Lombardy, with approximately 500 intensive care beds and 160 private hospitals, is far from meeting the current medical needs.
佩森蒂预计到3月26日，伦巴第大区将由有1.8万人感染，其中3000人需要重症特别护理。
By 26 March, Pessendi expects 18,000 people to be infected in the Lombardy region, 3,000 of whom will require intensive care.
“如果人们仍不明白待在家里的必要性，情况会变得灾难性。
"It can be disastrous if people still don't understand the need to stay at home.
”佩森蒂说。
'she said.
位于伦巴第大区贝加莫一家医院的医生克里斯蒂安·萨拉洛里在接受意大利媒体采访时表示：“现在像进入战时状态，可供使用的资源和病重的患者之间比例失衡……我们不得不选择救谁。
"It's like being in a state of war where there is an imbalance between the resources available and the number of patients who are seriously ill... we have to choose who to save," Christian Salalori, a doctor at a hospital in Bergamo, Lombardy, told Italian media.
”意大利目前在新冠肺炎疫情中的死亡率为5%，超过全球平均水平。
Italy now has a mortality rate of 5 per cent, higher than the global average.
因新冠肺炎去世的病人绝大多数为老年人，而意大利是欧洲老龄化程度最严重的国家。
The vast majority of deaths due to pneumonia are among the elderly, and Italy is the most ageing country in Europe.
意大利65岁及以上老年人口占全国人口23%的比例，老龄化程度在世界范围内排在第二，仅次于日本。
Italy's population aged 65 years and over accounts for 23 per cent of the country's population and is the second most ageing country in the world, after Japan.
意大利国家卫生研究所在一份声明中表示，在新冠病毒蔓延过程中，意大利需要考虑到的一个情况是人口老龄化。
The aging population is one of the things Italy needs to take into account in the spread of the new crown virus, the National Institutes of Health said in a statement.
为意大利卫生部提供建议的世界卫生组织官员沃尔特·里查尔迪则表示，在因新冠肺炎去世的病人中多数已经身患重疾，新冠病毒加剧了病情的恶化。
Walter Richardi, a WHO official advising the Italian health ministry, said most of those who died from pneumonia were already seriously ill and the new crown virus was exacerbating the condition.
新冠肺炎病人的集中出现使得其他疾病的医疗资源受到影响。
The concentration of patients with Newly Coronary Pneumonia has affected medical resources for other diseases.
在意大利北部，多家医院已经停止了除非最紧急的手术，希望滕出更多的病床给新冠肺炎病人。
Hospitals in northern Italy have stopped all but the most urgent operations, hoping to spare more beds for patients with pneumonia.
圣马泰奥传染科主任拉菲尔·布鲁诺表示，如果10%的新冠肺炎病人需要入院接受治疗，其中2%的人去重症监护病房，医院就已经没有地方可以再接收其他疾病的患者了。
If 10 percent of new cases of pneumonia require hospitalization, two percent of them go to intensive care units, leaving no room for patients with other illnesses, said Raphael Bruno, director of the San Mateo Infection Unit.
与此同时，数百名意大利医护人员已经感染了新冠肺炎。
Meanwhile, hundreds of Italian doctors and nurses have contracted pneumonia.
在社区传播最先爆发的科多尼奥，一名患者至少感染了5名医护人员。
In Cordonio, the first outbreak to spread in the community, a patient infected at least five health care workers.
面对医护人员的短缺，意大利政府已经拨款6亿欧元，希望额外招收2万名医护人员。
Faced with a shortage of health-care workers, the Italian government has allocated 600 million euros, hoping for an additional 20,000.
短期经济打击情带来的不确定性使得意大利的经济面临考验。
The uncertainty of a short-term economic blow is putting Italy's economy to the test.
德国贝伦贝格银行的预测显示，意大利今年GDP将萎缩1.2%。
Forecasts from Germany's Belenberg Bank indicate that Italy's GDP will contract by 1.2% this year.
3月9日，意大利富时MIB指数下跌11.2%，为2016年6月以来最大跌幅。
On March 9, Italy's FTSE MIB index fell 11.2%, its biggest drop since June 2016.
意大利支柱行业之一旅游业因疫情和封锁而陷入低谷。
Tourism, one of the pillars of Italy, is at a low ebb as a result of the epidemic and embargo.
伦巴第大区作为意大利的经济重镇，贡献了全国20%的GDP，封锁使这一区域的生产力受到限制。
The Lombardy region, Italy's economic powerhouse, contributes 20 per cent of the country's GDP, and the embargo limits the region's productivity.
意大利著名汽车生产商法拉利的工厂位于北部艾米利亚-罗马涅大区的摩德纳，该公司表示已经启动所有必须的措施来维持公司的运转。
Ferrari, an Italian car maker whose factory is located in Modena, in the northern Emilia-Romagna region, says it has initiated all necessary measures to keep the company running.
意大利财政部于3月9日发布的一份声明表示，交通、酒店、食品饮料、娱乐等行业将因政府实施的预防举措受到影响，但意大利经济的核心产业仍将保持开放，意大利政府也将采取措施支持受到影响的企业和员工。
The transport, hotel, food and beverage, and entertainment industries will be affected by government prevention efforts, but the Italian economy's core industries will remain open and the Italian government will take steps to support affected businesses and workers, the finance ministry said in a statement on March 9.
同一天，意大利经济与财政部长罗伯托·瓜尔蒂埃里表示，为了避免更大范围的经济危机，现阶段有必要承受短期的经济打击。
On the same day, Roberto Gualtieri, Italy's economy and finance minister, said a short-term economic hit was needed at this stage to avoid a wider economic crisis.
意大利政府于上周决定将紧急支出翻倍至75亿欧元，以帮助减轻病毒对经济的影响。
Italy's government decided last week to double emergency spending to €7.5 billion to help mitigate the impact of the virus on the economy.
总理孔特已经确认，这一数字还将上升。
Prime Minister Conte has confirmed that this number will rise.
欧盟方面已经允许意大利扩大财政预算，此次用于防疫的紧急支出将不列入赤字计算。
For its part, the European Union has allowed Italy to expand its budget so that emergency spending on immunization will not be included in the deficit calculation.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
全境封锁，医护紧缺，意大利战疫“至暗时刻”。
The entire territory blockades, the medical care is scarce, the Italian epidemic "dark hour."
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "全境封锁，医护紧缺，意大利战疫“至暗时刻”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; cordoned off, medical attention scarce, and & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "位于伦巴第大区贝加莫一家医院的医生克里斯蒂安·萨拉洛里表示：“现在像进入战时状态，可供使用的资源和病重的患者";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "It looks like a wartime state, with available resources and serious patients & quot;" says Christian Salalori, a doctor at a hospital in Bergamo, Lombardy.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
