追查泉州坍塌酒店：违法建设、违规改建之祸。
Tracing Quanzhou Collapse Hotel: Illegal construction and illegal reconstruction of the disaster.
俞琴 黄姝静。
Yu Qin Huang Jing.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
泉州欣佳酒店坍塌事故现场救出61人，20人已丧生，另有10人生死不明，“血的教训”如何酿成？谁又该为此负责？文 |《财经》记者俞琴 黄姝静编辑 | 鲁伟截至3月10日早9点，泉州鲤城区欣佳酒店坍塌事故现场已救出61人，其中20人死亡，41人受伤，目前仍有10人被困。
Sixty-one people were rescued from the scene of the collapse of the Quanzhou Xinjia Hotel. Twenty people have died, and 10 others are still unaccounted for. As of 9 a.m. on March 10, 61 people have been rescued from the collapse of Xinjia Hotel in Quanzhou City.
3月7日19时许，欣佳酒店发生楼体坍塌事故，共有71人被困（不含自救逃生的9人）。
At about 1900 hours on March 7, a total of 71 people were trapped in the collapse of the Xin Jia Hotel (not including 9 people who had escaped from the disaster).
事故发生后，国务院安委会办公室第一时间派出由副主任付建华带队的工作组赶赴现场，指导协助地方开展救援处置工作。
After the accident, the Office of the Security Committee of the State Council dispatched a team led by deputy director Fu Jianhua to the scene to give guidance to the local rescue and disposal work.
欣佳酒店坍塌事故发生已接近72小时。
The collapse of the Xinjia Hotel occurred nearly 72 hours ago.
随着这一“黄金救援期”行将结束，被困人员的存活希望逐渐变得渺茫。
As this "golden rescue" period draws to a close, the chances of survival for those trapped are fading.
3月10日，泉州市鲤城区政府相关负责人告诉《财经》记者，上午8点29分、8点38分分别从废墟中搜救出一名男孩和一名女孩，“救出时均无生命体征。
At 8: 29 a.m. and 8: 38 a.m., a boy and a girl were recovered from the rubble. "There were no signs of life when they were rescued," the official of the Lei City government in Quanzhou City told Caijing on March 10.
”欣佳酒店为泉州市鲤城区选定的新冠肺炎疫情隔离点。
The Xinjia Hotel is the selected quarantine site for the New Crown Pneumonia outbreak in Lei City, Quanzhou City.
被困人员中，半数以上来自于新冠肺炎疫情主要爆发地湖北。
More than half of those trapped came from Hubei, where the outbreak of Newcastle pneumonia was most prevalent.
在疫情防控期间，各地酒店纷纷关门，开业不久却多次被行政处罚的欣佳酒店何以能成为疫情防控的集中隔离点？欣佳酒店所在大楼早在2013年就开始建设，其中多次违规改建，甚至在事发前三年就已现坍塌前兆，但这么多年为何一直没有被查处？3月10日上午，应急管理部副部长尚勇在国新办新闻发布会上表示，现在初步了解，这是一起安全生产责任事故，酒店违法建设，多次违规改建，暴露出地方有关方面安全生产监管责任不落实，长期造成安全风险隐患的漏洞和盲区，血的教训令人震惊。
In the morning of March 10, the Vice Minister of Emergency Management, Shang Yong, told the State Administration of Emergency Management that the construction of the Xinjia Hotel had started in 2013 and that the hotel had broken the law and had repeatedly broken the law.
专业人士还原酒店倒塌过程欣佳酒店所在大楼是在重新改装作业时发生的坍塌。
Restoring the building where the hotel collapsed was the collapse of the remodeling operation.
泉州市鲤城区住建局局长张翼表示，3月7日晚上7时，房主接到现场施工人员电话称，在进行作业的一楼房屋一根柱子发生变形。
At 7 p.m. March 7, the owner of the building received a phone call from construction workers saying a pillar had been deformed on the ground floor of the building where the work was being carried out, said Zhang Wing, director of the Lei Cheng residence in Quanzhou City.
三四分钟后，楼体整体坍塌。
Three or four minutes later, the building collapsed.
“该楼房坍塌是因为装修还是原来结构问题，还需进一步甄别。
"The collapse of the building is due to renovation or original structural problems, further screening is required.
”事实上，早在事发当晚，就有参与现场救援的人士告诉《财经》记者，大楼之所以倒塌，很可能是大楼的框架结构受到了破坏，这点在后期作业中找到印证。
Indeed, as early as the night of the incident, people involved in the rescue told Caijing that the collapse of the building was probably due to damage to its framework, as evidenced by later work.
这名人士发现有遇难者被大梁压住，“出现的遗体被大梁压住，那证明大梁有断裂或者严重挤压，要不这样的钢质框架结构被大梁压倒比较少见。
"The presence of the body was crushed by a beam, which proved that the beam was broken or severely squeezed. Otherwise, it would be rare for the steel frame to be crushed by the beam," the person said.
”该人士还在现场注意到，顶楼天花板是混凝土结构，至少厚15厘米左右。
The person also noticed at the site that the ceiling of the penthouse was a concrete structure, at least about 15 centimetres thick.
他表示，对于这栋建筑来说，如果每一层楼的天花板都这么厚，底下是受不了这么重的压力的。
For the building, he says, if the ceiling on each floor is so thick, it can't stand the stress.
从事发现场照片来看，建筑废墟呈“人字形”，建筑背面墙体、建筑天花板分别构成了撇、捺。
Engaged in the discovery of photographs, the ruins of the building is "humanoid shape," the building behind the wall, the building ceilings constitute a fickle, respectively.
“之所以形成人字形，一定是结构前面部分先塌掉了。
"It's the front part of the structure that must have collapsed first.
”3月9日，一名曾在事故现场观察、从事建筑结构评估的专业人士向《财经》记者还原了楼房倒塌的过程。
On March 9, a professional who had been at the scene of the accident and was working on structural assessments of the building restored the collapse to Caijing.
据他推断，由于靠近道路酒店前厅位置的支撑结构失去支撑，由厚重的混凝土浇筑的天花板发生倒塌，瞬间往前倾斜，由于房子是一个钢结构框架，因此，在天花板往前倾斜的瞬间，连带着背面的墙体也往前倾斜。
He reasoned that, as the supporting structure near the front lobby of the road hotel lost support, the heavily concrete ceiling collapsed and tilted forward momentarily, and as the house was a steel frame, the wall at the back tilted forward along with the ceiling itself.
这个过程中，天花板砸到了距离建筑至少4米外的汽车——其车头被砸至严重凹陷。
In the process, the ceiling hit a car at least four metres away from the building - its nose badly sunk.
不过，后来装修浇筑的天花板，与建筑的原始墙体重量悬殊，前者笨重，后者轻巧，因此，被天花板“拉过来的钢架结构扛不住那么重的负担”，导致天花板又反弹回去，最终形成了事故现场的“人字形”。
The ceiling, however, was heavily bulky and lightweight compared to the original, so that the ceiling "did not carry that heavy burden," causing the ceiling to bounce back, creating a "zigzag" at the scene.
连日来，《财经》记者多次拨打泉州市住建局、泉州市鲤城区住建局、泉州市应急管理局公开电话，询问事发建筑是否属于违建及事故调查进展，但多次被告知：单位业务人员已全体出动，不是在现场参与救援，就是在配合调查组开展调查工作，留守在办公室接听电话的，基本上是不了解业务情况的“值班人员”。
Over the past few days, Caijing has repeatedly called the URA in Quanzhou City, the URA in Lei Cheng, Quanzhou City and the Quanzhou City Emergency Management Bureau to enquire whether the building was a breach of the law and the progress of the investigation.
3月9日，国务院通报称，福建省工程质量监管平台管理混乱。
March 9, the State Council reported that the Fujian Province project quality control platform management chaos.
“监测数据可以人为操纵修改，没有按照监管平台软硬件安装要求，采自企业投料控制系统的传感器，从而影响了监测数据的真实性和可靠性。
"Monitoring data can be manipulated without the use of sensors in the enterprise feed control system, as required by the installation of software and hardware on the regulatory platform, thus affecting the authenticity and reliability of monitoring data.
”3月10日，在国新办新闻发布会上，应急管理部副部长尚勇表示，欣佳酒店坍塌事故是一起安全生产责任事故，该酒店违法建设，多次违规改建。
On March 10, at a new press conference, deputy emergency management minister Shang Yong said the collapse of the Xinjia hotel was a production safety liability accident that involved illegal construction and numerous alterations.
“待救援基本结束后，将全面开展事故的调查，迅速查明原因，严格依法依规追究事故责任人相关责任。
"When the rescue work is basically over, an investigation of the accident will be conducted in an all-round manner, the causes will be promptly found out and relevant responsibilities will be investigated strictly in accordance with relevant regulations.
”谁该为塌楼负责？“这栋建筑其实属于小学就没毕业，你就拿到了大学毕业证书。
Who was responsible for the collapse? "The building actually didn't graduate from elementary school, and you got a college diploma.
”上述从事建筑结构评估的专业人士告诉《财经》记者，一块集体土地，是如何被拿来建起7层高楼的，此后又是如何一路通过消防验收、改装成酒店，最后拿到特行业经营许可，成为一家合法经营酒店的？在他看来，完成这一系列动作算是“过五关斩六将”。
Caijing told Caijing that a collective plot of land was used to build seven-storey buildings, and how it has since been transformed into a legal hotel by fire acceptance, conversion into a hotel, and finally a legal hotel.
这名人士举例称，从事故现场来看，酒店楼板为混凝土，厚度至少达到15公分，和钢架结构的墙体形成鲜明对比，显得笨重不堪，如此负重是这栋建筑所难以承受的。
From the scene of the accident, for example, the hotel floors were concrete, at least 15 centimetres thick, in stark contrast to the steel frame walls, which were bulky and unbearable for the building.
那么，酒店建造过程中，施工监理单位为何没发现如此显而易见的问题？事故发生后，不少法律人士都在关注哪些单位或个人应对此负责。
So why didn't the construction supervisor notice such an obvious problem during the construction of the hotel? After the accident, many legal people were concerned about which units or individuals should be responsible.
北京市才良律师事务主任王才亮对《财经》记者分析：首先，如果欣佳酒店所在大楼的土地没有合法取得土地使用权，在现有法律体系下它是无法进行楼房规划和建设的；其次，若欣佳酒店所在土地的性质是集体土地，合法规划和建设的前提是拿到集体土地建设用地使用权；接下来，它需要得到规划局的规划许可，再接着是住建部门的施工许可，这之后方可开始施工。
First, if the land on which Xinjia Hotel is located is not legally available for land use, under the current legal system, it cannot be planned and built. Second, if the land on which Xinjia Hotel is located is collective land, legal planning and construction is contingent on obtaining the use right of the collective land.
竣工时还要进行验收，其后才能正式投入使用。
When completed, it will be subject to acceptance before it is fully operational.
”有不愿具名的专业人士认为，整个链条环环相扣。
Professionals who do not want to be named argue that the chain is interconnected.
如果有关该房子的所有建造、施工、审查环节都是依法依规的，最终可能就不会坍塌了。
If all construction, construction, and inspection of the house were done in accordance with the law, it might not eventually collapse.
针对坍塌大楼，王才亮还提出了诸多疑问，包括“从建筑物到成为酒店以及出租商用，依法需要取得一系列的手续比如特种行业经营许可证、消防安全、卫生许可证、营业执照等等。
Wang also raised a number of questions about the collapsed building, including that "from building to becoming a hotel and renting a business, a series of procedures such as special business license, fire safety, health permit, business license and so on are required by law."
这些手续的办理当中都需要提供房屋属于合法安全建筑物的证明。
These formalities require proof that the house is a legal and secure building.
欣佳酒店的老板有没有办这些手续？如果办了是否合法？”北京厚大合川律师事务所合伙人裘卫国、北京企业法治与发展研究会秘书长朱崇坤撰文分析了各方可能的法律责任。
Does the owner of Xinjia Hotel handle these procedures? If so, is it legal? "Qiu Weiguo, partner of Beijing-based Hutchon Law Firm, and Zhu Chongkun, Secretary-General of the Beijing Institute of Business Law and Development, analyzed the possible legal responsibilities of the parties.
如果此次事故由工程质量原因造成，那么将涉及建设单位、勘察设计单位、施工单位、监理单位，“建设工程建设过程中，任何一家或多家单位不按照国家规定工程量标准进行建设，均有可能造成工程倒塌事故。
If the accident is caused by the quality of the project, it will involve the construction unit, survey and design unit, construction unit and supervision unit.
”应根据责任大小，对相关单位追究法律责任。
"Relevant units shall be investigated for legal responsibility according to the scope of their responsibilities.
如果事故由房主违规装修造成，那么房主将受到三年以上七年以下有期徒刑的刑罚。
If the accident is caused by the illegal renovation of the owner, the owner will be sentenced to three to seven years of imprisonment.
有着房主、酒店老板双重身份的杨金锵，或将涉及更多法律责任。
Owner, hotel owner of the dual status of Yang Jinqiang, or will involve more legal responsibility.
根据《侵权责任法》的三十七条规定，宾馆的管理人未尽到安全保障义务，造成他人损害的，应当承担侵权责任。
According to article 37 of the Tort Liability Law, a hotel manager who fails to meet his safety and security obligations and causes damage to others shall be liable for tort.
裘卫国、朱崇坤指出，即使此次事故是他人的行为造成，欣佳酒店经营者作为宾馆的管理人未尽到安全保障义务的，也承担相应的补充责任。
Even if the accident was caused by the actions of others, the operator of Xinjia Hotel, as the manager of the hotel, failed to meet its safety and security obligations, he said.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
追查泉州坍塌酒店：违法建设、违规改建之祸。
Tracing Quanzhou Collapse Hotel: Illegal construction and illegal reconstruction of the disaster.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "追查泉州坍塌酒店：违法建设、违规改建之祸";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; illegal construction; and
var msg_desc = "泉州欣佳酒店坍塌事故现场救出61人，20人已丧生，另有10人生死不明，“血的教训”如何酿成？谁又该为此负责？";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
