失去了整个冬天的三亚旅游业。
Lost the entire winter of Sanya tourism.
傅林林。
Fu Linlin.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
记者：傅林林编辑：李慎“ 三亚旅游业在复苏，但已经错过了黄金期。
Journalist: Li Shen, editor: "Sanya is recovering from tourism, but has missed the golden age.
”每年春节，北方的“候鸟们”前往三亚过冬是当地旅游产业火爆的关键，但今年遭遇疫情后，三亚的旅游产业陷入停摆。
"The annual Spring Festival holiday for northern China's" migratory birds "to Sanya, the key to the region's booming tourist industry, came to a halt this year after the outbreak.
景点关闭、酒店停业、旅行团下架相关产品，三亚的旅游业在疫情期间跌到了冰点。
Sanya's tourism industry froze during the epidemic, as attractions closed, hotels closed and tour groups pulled out of shelves.
2019年，仅春节7天时间，三亚接待的旅游人次就达到了99万，收入达到了103.85亿元，根据海南旅游和文化广电体育工作会议上发布的数据，2019年，海南全省实现旅游总收入1050亿元。
In 2019, during the seven days of the Spring Festival alone, Sanya received 990,000 tourists and received 10,385 million yuan in revenue. According to data released at the Hainan Tourism, Culture, Radio and Television Sports Conference, Hainan Province achieved a total tourism revenue of 105 billion yuan in 2019.
三亚7天的旅游收入就达到了全省全年旅游收入的十分之一，而此次疫情让这座海岛好个月的旅游黄金时期泡汤了。
Seven days of tourism revenue in Sanya is one-tenth of the province's annual tourism revenue, and the epidemic has ruined the island's golden tourist season for many months.
近期，随着全国大规模复工，各地景点陆续开放，三亚的旅游业也在逐渐复苏。
Recently, with the resumption of large-scale work throughout the country, scenic spots are opening up, Sanya's tourism industry is also gradually recovering.
但现实情况是，旅游产业并不可能随着复工而立即恢复往常的水平。
But the reality is that the tourism industry will not be able to return to business as usual immediately.
多位三亚旅游行业人士向界面新闻表示，5月份之后，三亚的旅游市场才能进入正常轨道，但那时三亚已经失去了一年中最火爆的旅游季节。
Sanya's tourism market was not on track until after May, when it had lost its hottest tourist season of the year, a number of people in the travel industry in Sanya told Interface News.
近两年，海南省在全岛限制房地产投资，以往的旅游加置业的现象得到了限制，2019年海南房地产投资总额为1336亿元，增速同比下滑了22.1%，房地产投资遭到遏制的同时，旅游业在海南的发展中就占据了重中之重的地位，在海南建设自贸区和自由港的政策下，国际旅游消费中心就是其主要抓手，而经此一“疫”，2020年的三亚甚至整个海南的旅游业都将蒙上一层阴影。
In the past two years, Hainan has restricted real estate investment across the island.With investment in Hainan real estate totaling 133.6 billion yuan in 2019, down 22.1% year-on-year, tourism is a top priority in Hainan's development.
疫情冲击三亚是一座由海而兴的城市，由西向东沿海岸线分布着众多经典景点，包括南海观音、天涯海角、西岛、大东海、鹿回头、凤凰岭、亚龙湾、蜈支洲等。
The outbreak hit Sanya, a city rising from the sea. From west to east along the coastline, there are many classic attractions including the South China Sea Quan Yin, the ends of the earth, Guernsey, the East China Sea, Luk Hui, Phoenix Hills, Yalong Bay and Centigrade Island.
而依托海岸线而建各大酒店自然成为此次疫情冲击的最前线。
And depending on the coastline and the establishment of major hotels naturally become the frontline of the impact of the epidemic.
占据海岸线优质位置的往往是各大品牌的星级酒店，三亚美高梅酒店的工作人员向界面新闻表示：“尽管疫情期间酒店一直未关门歇业，但顾客寥寥。
"Although the hotel remained open during the outbreak, there were few customers," staff at Sanya's Metro-Metro Hotel told the Interface News, often occupying prime shoreline locations.
”该工作人员表示，目前酒店接受预定，到店后需要进行体温监测，确定没有发烧后即可入住，并不需要隔离14天。
The staff said the hotel was currently booked and needed a temperature check-up after arrival to make sure there was no fever and did not need to be isolated for 14 days.
另外，店内只有少量工作人员，酒店的设施大部分都关闭了只开放了一个餐厅和行政泳池。
In addition, the store has only a small number of staff and most of the hotel's facilities have been closed - only one dining room and executive pool are open.
这也成为了很多星级酒店在疫情期间的经营方式，某房企酒店业务负责人向界面新闻表示：“如果地方政府没有强制关门，我们一般都会保持营业，但酒店只保留基本的接待业务，同时关闭大部分楼层，降低消耗，减少成本，对于人工来说，由于是春节期间，很多员工只发当地要求的最低工资。
"If the local government does not force the shutdown, we will generally remain open, but the hotel will only keep basic reception operations while closing most floors, reducing consumption and reducing costs," the head of hotel operations for many star hotels told Interface News during the Lunar New Year.
”亚特兰蒂斯是复星在三亚布局的重点项目，这个占地54万平方米的大型文旅项目也陷入了停摆，其内部人士向界面新闻表示：“疫情对亚特兰蒂斯酒店和游乐的影响很大，不能营业是硬伤，但复星很多布局都在国外，所以不会造成太大影响。
Atlantis is a major project in Sanya, where the 540,000-square-metre project has stalled, and its insiders told Interface News: "The epidemic has had a big impact on the Atlantis hotels and rides.
”但是对大量布局内地的企业来说，疫情的影响已经充分体现在数据上了，万豪集团在大中华区的酒店为375家，其中有90家被关闭，在三亚，万豪投资运营的酒店达到14家，今年2月，万豪大中华区酒店的RevPAR同比下滑近90%。
But for a large number of mainland-based companies, the epidemic's impact is well documented, with 90 of the 375 Marriott hotels in Greater China being closed, while Marriott's 14 hotels in Sanya fell nearly 90 per cent year-on-year in February.
相比于自有物业的大型酒店集团，租赁物业的民宿日子就更不好过了，收入没着落还得付租金，使得他们的资金流捉襟见肘。
Residential accommodation in rented properties is more difficult than for large hotel conglomerates that own property, with unfunded income and rent payments straining their funding streams.
陈飞去年开了自己的第二家民宿，“新店是按照准五星的标准装修的，这部分投入都近千万了，现在还没法开工，压力山大。
Chen flew to his second home in New Year. "The new store was renovated according to the quasi-five-star standard.
”从春节前到现在，于飞经营的民宿都无法正常营业，“小一点的民宿一个月成本也要几十万，希望自己能撑到营业的那一天”。
From the Spring Festival until now, people who fly cannot operate normally. "Smaller houses cost hundreds of thousands of yuan a month to stay open," he said.
除了酒店，过年期间三亚的跟团游也受到了非常大的影响，一位地接人员向界面新闻表示：“今年我们公司亏死了，错过了三亚最旺的季节。
In addition to the hotel, Sanya's tour during the Spring Festival has also been very affected, a receptionist told the Interface News: "This year our company was losing money and missed the peak season in Sanya.
”据他介绍，以往春节，三亚跟团游最普通产品也要卖到5000到6000元/人，7000到8000元/人的产品只能算中等，“主要是机票房价都在涨，最普通的产品只能住准四的酒店，相当于内地快捷酒店，吃的话也就人均30元，基本的景点带去玩一玩，5天的行程还有2天是没安排的，所以玩不了什么。
In the past, Sanya had to sell 5,000 to 6,000 yuan per person for the most common products, while 7,000 to 8,000 yuan per person for the Spring Festival, he said. "The most common products are only allowed to stay in four hotels, the equivalent of mainland fast food hotels, and 30 yuan per person.
”如果要在5月份去三亚旅游，跟团的价格则降至2000-3000元/人，可见这次疫情对旅行社的收入带来的影响。
If you travel to Sanya in May, the price of the tour will drop to 2,000-3,000 yuan per person, which shows the impact of the epidemic on the income of travel agencies.
而旅游业的惨淡自然会传导到当地的消费市场。
And the bleak tourism industry will naturally be transmitted to the local consumer market.
疫情期间，三亚的免税店基本都关闭了，在2019年的春节黄金周，三亚国际免税城销售额达到4.83亿元，而海口海关在2019年2月4—10日春节期间监管的三亚、海口、琼海三地四家离岛免税店销售金额为6.01亿元，三亚已经占到全岛的近80%，可见免税店关门对三亚离岛消费市场造成的影响。
During the epidemic, duty-free shops in Sanya were basically closed. During the Spring Festival Golden Week in 2019, Sanya's sales reached 483 million yuan, while Haikou Customs monitored four outlying island duty-free shops in Sanya, Haikou and Qionghai during the Spring Festival from February 4 to 10, 2019.
艰难自救在疫情的影响下，三亚的旅游业也开始了自救之路。
Tough Self-Help Under the influence of the epidemic, Sanya's tourism industry has begun to save itself.
亚特兰蒂斯内部人士告诉界面新闻：“现在酒店无法正常营业，只能通过直播的形式进行品牌推广，为之后旅游业的复苏积攒人气。
Atlantis insiders told Interface News: "The hotel is now unable to operate normally, but only through the form of live brand promotion, tourism recovery after the accumulation of popularity.
”为了节省成本，在给员工发完工资之后，陈飞就宣布团队解散，等到复工后根据个人意愿选择是否回来，这期间就省下了员工薪资的支出。
To save costs, Chen announced the team would be disbanded after paying employees their salaries, and would have to wait until he returned to work to choose whether or not to return.
而线下免税店关门后，线上商城仍在正常运营，根据海南日报报道，1月27日至2月6日，三亚国际免税城网上销售16.48万件，销售额8471.7万元。
From January 27 to February 6, Sanya sold 164,800 items and sold 84.717 million yuan online, the Hainan Daily reported.
除了商家的自救外，行业联盟也在发挥着作用，上述地接人员向界面新闻表示，他所在的旅游诚信联盟就号召在国家文旅部已对旅行社质保金做了80%退还的情况下，各旅行社按约定，按约及时付款及因疫情适当减免供应商的平台费，目前该倡议已经联合了全国42家旅行社。
In addition to business self-help, industry associations are also playing a role, the officials told the Interface News that his organization had called on travel agencies to pay the agreed and timely payment and appropriate relief of platform fees due to the epidemic in 42 travel agencies across the country.
凤凰网文旅智库专家周鸣歧认为，旅游企业经营者首先要想到通过什么举措救企业，救员工，救市场，救业务，要谨慎预期，尽可能收缩资金压力大的业务，抓紧回流应收款项，努力降低非核心、非必要的企业开支。
Zhou Mingfifu, an expert on the Phoenix Net literary think tank, believes that tour operators should first think about what measures to save enterprises, save employees, rescue the market, save business, be careful to anticipate, as much as possible to shrink capital pressure business, grasp the receivables, try to reduce non-core, non-essential business expenses.
另外，企业都无法改变大势，行业冷冻期，所有人业务量都会大幅下降。
In addition, the enterprise is unable to change the situation, the industry freeze period, all the business volume will decline significantly.
同时，未来行业趋势也会加速改变。
At the same time, future industry trends will accelerate.
在整个团队日常经营性业务闲下来的时候，企业更应该研究未来市场需求，进行产品研发迭代，团队培训提升修炼内功。
When the day-to-day business of the whole team is idle, enterprises should study the future market demand, iteration of product development, and team training to improve their inner work.
但旅游市场的场景还是以线下为主，公共场所和人流密集地无法正常开放，致使商家无法正常营业仍旧是致命伤，租金压力、现金流锐减，这些仍在考验着众多旅游企业。
However, the tourism market is still dominated by off-line, public places and crowded people can not open normally, resulting in business is still fatal, rental pressure, cash flow sharply reduced, these continue to test a number of tourism enterprises.
对此，三亚市在2月5日发布了关于有效应对疫情支持旅游企业发展十条政策措施，支持旅游企业发展。
On February 5, Sanya issued 10 policies and measures to effectively respond to the epidemic and support the development of tourism enterprises.
其中包括，市财政安排1亿元专项用于稳定三亚旅游市场，支持旅游企业发展，为旅游企业提供低息贷款，减免税收，通过就业补贴支持企业不裁员等。
These include a 100 million yuan financial arrangement to stabilize the tourism market in Sanya, support the development of tourism enterprises, provide low-interest loans to tourism enterprises, provide tax relief, and support enterprises not to lay off workers through employment subsidies.
2月17日，三亚市于当日起发放第一批旅游企业减负资金，总金额达5400万元，其中三亚市天涯海角旅游发展有限公司及三亚千古情旅游演艺有限公司受益较大。
On February 17, the city of Sanya released its first batch of travel enterprises with a total of 54 million yuan, including Sanya Tianyu Cape Tourism Development Co. Ltd. and Sanya Qianqiu Tourist Performance Co. Ltd.
但是这种补贴也是有条件的，第一批接受企业减负财政奖补资金的旅游企业为2019年纳税金额较为靠前的15家企业。
But such subsidies are also conditional, with the first group of travel companies receiving financial incentives to reduce their tax payments to the top 15 businesses in 2019.
根据《海南日报》的报道，截至2月24日，三亚市累计发放8.5亿元奖补资金。
As of February 24, Sanya had distributed 850 million yuan in prize money, the Hainan Daily reported.
缓慢恢复随着国内疫情逐步得到控制，各地的景区有的已经开放，有的则制定了明确的开放时间，三亚的旅游业也进入了恢复的轨道。
Slow Recovery As the epidemic in the country has been gradually brought under control, scenic spots around the country have either been opened or have set clear opening hours, and the tourism industry in Sanya is on the path to recovery.
2月17日，三亚市委副书记、市长阿东主持召开三亚市旅游业复工准备座谈会，要求按照中央和省委、省政府的部署，在做好疫情防控工作的同时，将扶持旅游业稳定发展的措施落到实处，研究制定旅游业疫后恢复重振计划，提前谋划旅游产业整体转型升级，做好复工前的各项准备工作。
On February 17, the vice-secretary of the Sanya Municipal Committee, Mayor Adong, held a preparatory seminar for the resumption of tourism work in Sanya. He called for measures to support the steady development of tourism while ensuring the prevention and control of the disease.
2月20日，海口、三亚两市共三家免税店也已经恢复营业。
On 20 February, three duty-free shops were reopened in Haikou and Sanya.
另外，三亚的部分景点已经开放，其中，三亚蜈支洲岛旅游区、天涯海角游览区、三亚鹿回头风景区、大小洞天景区2月21日起对外恢复营业，而室内景点目前还未允许开放。
In addition, some scenic spots in Sanya have been opened, including the Sanya Centiquanzhou Island Tourist Area, the Tianyao Tourist Area, Sanya Luhuwei Scenic Area and the Big and Small Dongtian Scenic Area.
周鸣歧认为，传统知名景区多为国有，背靠大树，再加上这些景区本身只是靠山吃山，关门歇业后日常运维支出较低，只需静待春暖花开时。
Zhou Mingfou believes that the traditional well-known scenic spots are mostly state-owned, backed by trees, and that these scenic spots themselves only rely on mountains and mountains, closed after the daily operating expenses are relatively low, just wait for the spring blooming.
而大规模的人造景区，比如新建“古镇”、主题公园、度假综合体等，大多为开发商营建，本就是地产的配套，并不指望它赚钱。
But large-scale man-made scenic spots, such as the new "old town," theme parks, holiday complexes, and so on, are mostly built for developers, is the supporting property, do not expect it to make money.
所以从景区行业整体来看，除了一部分举债开发的项目外，大部分景区是可以安然扛过这个“严冬“的。
So from the industry as a whole, in addition to some debt development projects, most of the scenic spots can safely carry this "winter."
但三亚接下来的旅游市场仍有诸多困难，陈飞向界面新闻表示：“疫情过后企业的生产经营已经受到了影响，这部分可能会影响团体出游，另一方面，个人的收入也会受影响，后续的市场情况并不好做。
However, there are still many difficulties in Sanya's tourism market. Chen Fei told Interface News: "After the epidemic, the production and operation of enterprises has been affected, which may affect the travel of groups, on the other hand, the income of individuals will also be affected, and subsequent market conditions are not easy to do
”而且三亚旅游旺季主要在冬季，随着天气渐暖，三亚也错过了最火爆的旅游季，上述地接公司的人士向界面新闻表示：“如果五六月份三亚的团体游恢复的话，价格上应该不会有太大的上浮空间了。
"If Sanya's group travel recovers in May and June, there should not be much room for price hikes," Sanya's people told the Interface News as the weather warmed and Sanya missed its hottest season.
”多位受访者向界面新闻表示，四五月份旅游业将会步入正轨，之后会迎来一波火爆的行情。
Several interviewees told Interface News that tourism would be on track in April and May, followed by a surge in prices.
但周鸣歧表示，以这种乐观预期来编排企业现金流会存在巨大风险，如果到时候疫情持续，企业资金将难以为继。
But Mr Zhou said there was a big risk in putting cash flows together with such optimistic expectations, which would make it difficult for companies to fund themselves if the epidemic continued.
三亚旅游业的复苏之路，还很漫长。
There is still a long way to go before tourism in Sanya recovers.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
失去了整个冬天的三亚旅游业。
Lost the entire winter of Sanya tourism.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "旅游";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Tourism & quot;;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "失去了整个冬天的三亚旅游业";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "三亚旅游业在复苏，但已经错过了黄金期。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Sanya's tourism industry is recovering, but has missed its prime.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
