从封城到锁国，意大利为何身陷疫情泥潭。
From the Seals to the Locks, why Italy is mired in an epidemic.
界面地球姨。
Auntie Earth.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
2020年3月9日，意大利萨索洛，意甲第26轮萨索洛与布雷西亚的比赛场地外，一名卫生工作人员为入场球员和工作人员检测体温。
On March 9, 2020, a health worker tests the body temperature of players and workers outside the grounds of Italy's 26th Rota Sasolo and Brescia.
图片来源：IC Photo记者: 王磬“ 一个医疗条件优良、应对迅速、信息透明的欧洲国家，何以被疫情肆虐至此？”意大利“锁国”了。
Photo: IC Photo: Wang Qing: "A European country with excellent medical conditions, rapid response, transparency of information, how was the outbreak so rampant?" Italy "locked country.
早已处于欧洲新冠肺炎疫情风口浪尖的意大利，又迎来新一轮史无前例的风暴。
Italy, already on the cusp of a new outbreak of pneumonia in Europe, is bracing itself for another unprecedented storm.
3月9日当地时间晚上，意大利总理孔特紧急宣布了迄今为止最“硬核”的防疫措施：因新冠疫情严峻，人员流动紧急管控措施将从北部三大区推广至意大利全境。
On March 9, Italian Prime Minister Matteo Conte announced the most "hard-core" vaccination so far: emergency measures to control the movement of people will be extended from the three northern regions to all of Italy because of the new crown.
从3月10日开始，如非工作或健康需要，禁止人员跨省流动。
From 10 March onwards, the movement of persons across provinces is prohibited, except for work or health needs.
全国学校继续停课至4月3日，同时暂停体育赛事与公共活动。
Schools throughout the country continued to be closed until 3 April, while sporting events and public events were suspended.
截至3月9日，意大利累计确诊病例达到9172例，位列全球第二；累计死亡463例，致死率高达5.04%，一跃成为主要疫情国家中致死率最高的一个。
As of March 9, the cumulative number of confirmed cases in Italy was 9,172, the second highest in the world; 463 cumulative deaths, or 5.04 per cent, were the highest among the major endemic countries.
如果将时钟往回拨一点：在中国疫情爆发初期，意大利其实是最早对中国停航的国家之一，也是欧盟内部最早宣布全国卫生紧急状态的国家。
Turn the clock back: Italy was one of the first countries to stop sailing to China in the early days of the outbreak, and the first to declare a national health emergency within the European Union.
在2019年“全球健康安全指数”（Global Health Security Index）发布的榜单上，意大利应对大流行病的综合能力排名为31/195，属于全球中上游的水平，并在“监测疾病”、“跨境应对”等多项指数上排名全球第一。
On the 2019 Global Health Security Index's list, Italy ranks 31 / 195 as having a comprehensive ability to respond to a pandemic, one of the highest in the world on a range of indices such as "disease surveillance" and "cross-border response."
一个医疗条件优良、应对迅速、信息透明的欧洲国家，何以被疫情肆虐至此？从2月下旬爆发社区传染以来，意大利又经历了什么？姗姗来迟的“一号病人”仅有两万人口的科多尼奥（Codogno）是伦巴第大区的一个小镇。
How could a European country with good health care, rapid response, and transparency of information be ravaged by the epidemic? What has happened to Italy since the outbreak of community infections in late February? Codogno, a belated patient with a population of 20,000, is a small town in the Lombardy region.
这里出现的“一号病人”引爆了意大利北部的社区传染。
The appearance of "patient number one" here has triggered a community epidemic in northern Italy.
回过头看，没能更早地确诊这位“一号病人”，是病毒在日后得以肆虐全国的第一个伏笔。
Looking back, the failure to identify the "patient number one" earlier is the first sign that the virus will continue to ravage the country.
意大利最早出现的新冠病人是一对来自武汉的游客夫妇，于1月31日在罗马被确诊。
Italy's first new crown patient was a couple of tourists from Wuhan who were diagnosed in Rome on January 31.
一周之后，另一名刚刚到访武汉的男子也在意大利被确诊。
A week later, another man who had just visited Wuhan was also diagnosed in Italy.
由于及时发现和隔离，这三例来自中国的输入性病例并未扩大传染，因此也不被认为是流行病学意义上的“一号病人”。
As a result of timely detection and isolation, the three imported cases from China did not spread the infection and are therefore not considered "patients No. 1" in the epidemiological sense.
直到2月21日，科多尼奥镇的医院里才确诊了首位感染新冠的本国公民。
It was not until 21 February that the first national citizen to be infected with the new crown was confirmed in a hospital in the town of Kodoño.
这位名叫马提亚（Mattia）的38岁男子没有清晰的中国接触史，他于2月14日出现了感冒症状，向家庭医生报告但未引起重视；2月18日到急诊室就诊时被认为有轻微的肺炎，但由于严重程度尚不足以住院便让他回家休息。
Mattia, a 38-year-old man with no clear history of Chinese contact, reported symptoms of a cold to a family doctor on February 14 but did not receive any attention. He arrived in the emergency room on February 18 and was deemed to have mild pneumonia, but was not serious enough to allow him to go home to rest.
2月19日，他再度回到医院时症状已经加剧。
By the time he returned to the hospital on 19 February, his symptoms had worsened.
当时医护人员仍然按照常规的肺炎流程进行检查，直到一名富有经验的麻醉师坚持要求院方为他检测新冠病毒感染。
Medical staff continued to follow a routine pneumonia procedure until an experienced anesthesiologist insisted that the hospital test him for a new crown virus.
2月21日，马提亚检测呈阳性。
On 21 February, Matya tested positive.
社交活动丰富的“一号病人”马提亚被认为是一名“超级传播者”——在接受隔离之前，他将病毒传给了至少13名意大利人，包括他正在怀孕的妻子、一位与他共同慢跑的朋友、三位他朋友父亲酒吧里的客人、八位医院里的工作人员和病人，并有至少一名年迈女性由于病情过重死亡。
Before being quarantined, Mattiya, a socially active patient, passed the virus on to at least 13 Italians, including his pregnant wife, a jogging friend, three guests at his friend's and father's bar, eight hospital staff and patients, and at least one elderly woman died of the disease.
自2月22日起，以伦巴第大区为中心，意大利北部地区的确诊病例呈指数级增长，并逐渐扩向全国。
Since 22 February, there has been an exponential increase in the number of confirmed cases in northern Italy, centred on the region of Lombardy, and has gradually spread throughout the country.
2月23日，意大利政府对伦巴第和威尼托大区的11个市镇实施了封锁。
On 23 February, the Government of Italy imposed a blockade on 11 municipalities in the Lombardy and Veneto regions.
潮水般的批评指向了科多尼奥医院：马提亚从出现症状到想起来检测新冠，用了将近一周的时间；从进入医院到接受隔离，至少花了36小时，期间甚至有多名家人朋友前来探访。
The tide of criticism was directed at the Cordonio Hospital: it took nearly a week for Matthias to recover his new crown; it took at least 36 hours from entering the hospital to being quarantined, during which many family and friends even visited him.
在确诊之后，也没有及时关闭急诊、进行消毒。
After diagnosis, also did not close the emergency department in time, carry on disinfection.
总理孔特不点名地指责该医院应对病毒传播负责：未遵循传染病相关的规定进行防护。
Prime Minister Conte unnamed accused the hospital of being responsible for spreading the virus: failing to comply with rules on infectious disease protection.
意大利检方已经介入调查。
Italian prosecutors have stepped in.
这或许意味着意大利政府在1月底宣布的“全国紧急卫生状况”形同虚设。
This may mean that the "national health emergency" announced by the Italian government at the end of January is a dead letter.
根据那时发布的指南，凡是出现了流感、肺炎症状的病人，都应被当作潜在的新冠病例，不管是否有清晰的中国接触史。
According to guidelines issued at the time, any patient with symptoms of flu or pneumonia should be treated as a potential new case, regardless of a clear history of Chinese exposure.
但在实践中，意大利早期的筛查重点，几乎全与中国接触史有关。
In practice, however, the early focus of screening in Italy was almost entirely related to a history of exposure in China.
重心放在监控意大利的华人群体回流，以及与中国联系紧密的米兰、罗马、普拉托等地。
The focus is on monitoring the return of the Chinese community in Italy, as well as Milan, Rome and Prato, which are closely linked to China.
科多尼奥镇与中国联系甚少，当地医护人员恐怕很难想象首例会在这里出现。
The town of Kodoño has few ties to China, and it is hard for local health workers to imagine the first case here.
早期的这种思路，忽视了病毒已经进入本地传染的可能。
This early line of thought ignored the possibility that the virus had entered a local epidemic.
公共专家通过更多确诊患者的病毒基因分析认为，病毒早在“一号病人”发病前好几个星期就在当地扩散了。
Public experts, through more genetic analysis of the virus that diagnosed the patient, said the virus had spread locally weeks before the onset of "patient number one."
马提亚最终获检，是由于其妻子无意中透露了他曾在那时与到访中国的朋友吃饭。
Matthias was eventually questioned after his wife bluntly revealed that he had dined with friends visiting China at the time.
但该朋友的新冠检测呈阴性。
But the friend tested negative for his new crown.
目前意大利仍未追踪到其“零号病人”。
Italy has yet to track down its patient number zero.
步调失和的央地关系意大利全境分为20个大区，大区政府在卫生、体育等公共事业方面有着重要的话语权，与中央政府形成互补。
The unruly central government has an important voice in public health, sports and other public services, complementing the central government.
当前的中央政府相对羸弱、地方相对强势，央地关系的失调也成为早期防疫乏力的原因之一。
The current relative weakness of the central government and the relative strength of the region have contributed to the poor state of relations between the central government and the central government.
北部的伦巴第、威尼托大区是全国经济最发达的大区，贡献了超过全国30%的GDP。
The regions of Lombardy and Veneto in the north are the most economically developed regions in the country, contributing more than 30 per cent of the country's GDP.
两区都长期由极右翼政党“联盟党”（Lega）掌权，都曾在2017年发起公投、以寻求更多的自治权力。
Both regions have long been run by the far-right "Lega" party, which launched a referendum in 2017 in search of more autonomy.
去年的一次危机中，“联盟党”党魁、意大利知名民粹政客萨尔维尼被对手五星运动踢出了执政联盟，因此十分仇视五星联盟组建的、继续由孔特执掌的新内阁。
In one crisis last year, Italy's populist politician Salvigny, the leader of the Unionist Party, was kicked out of the ruling coalition by his rival's Five Star Movement, and is therefore hostile to the new cabinet formed by the Five Star Alliance, which continues to be run by Conte.
疫情爆发之后，萨尔维尼多次表示，孔特“处理这次危机的方式是个灾难”，他“应尽早辞职”。
In the wake of the outbreak, Salvigny repeatedly said that Konte "dealt with the crisis in a disastrous way" and that he "should resign as soon as possible."
2月初出现来自中国的输入性病例时，联盟党就开始向孔特政府发难。
When imported cases from China appeared in early February, the League began to harass the Conte government.
由联盟党担任大区主席的四个大区联合发起提议，要求中央政府规定，从中国回到意大利的学生需隔离14天才能入学。
The four Regions, chaired by the Alliance Party, have jointly launched a proposal to require the central Government to require students returning to Italy from China to be placed in isolation for 14 days.
当时华人社团已经在使领馆的协调下开始了自发隔离，政府评估之后认为这些措施已足够充分，不该对特殊种族群体下达隔离命令。
At the time, the Chinese community had begun spontaneous segregation under the coordination of embassies and consulates, and the Government had assessed that those measures were sufficient to warrant the granting of segregation orders to particular ethnic groups.
孔特因此遭受了联盟党发起的舆论战的攻击，批评他“没有能力保护意大利人”。
Conte was thus attacked by a public-opinion war waged by the Unionist party, which criticized him for being "incapable of protecting Italians."
疫情爆发后，中央政府与伦巴第大区政府在测试标准上也出现了分歧。
The central government and the Lombardy regional government have also split over testing standards after the outbreak.
大区政府认为无症状的人也要检测，并需要把无症状的阳性被试者算入确诊患者的数据里。
The regional government considers asymptomatic people to be tested, and asymptomatic positive subjects need to be counted in the data of confirmed patients.
但中央政府——或许是出于稳定民心的考虑——援引世卫组织的标准称，由于无症状的人并非疫情加剧的主要原因，因此不需测试无症状者，大区政府的做法“注水”了数据，让疫情看上去比实际更严重。
But the central government - perhaps out of concern to stabilize the population - quoted WHO standards as saying that, because asymptomatic people are not the main cause of the increase in the epidemic, and thus do not need to test asymptomatic people, regional governments are "injecting" data to make the outbreak look worse than it really is.
孔特还与伦巴第大区主席丰塔纳（Attilio Fontana）展开了一场论战，互相指责对方不作为。
Conte also engaged in a polemic with Attilio Fontana, president of the Lombardy region, accusing each other of inaction.
这些政客争论在疫情进一步加剧之后，暂时淡出了媒体头条，但中央与地方之间的步调失和或许让本就缺乏动员能力的国家错失了防疫的早期窗口。
These politicians argue that, after the epidemic has intensified, it has temporarily faded from the headlines, but the discord between the centre and the local may have caused countries that were already incapable of mobilizing to miss the early window of vaccination.
全国统一的部署出现在3月1日，孔特签署了防疫行政令，将全国划分为三个区域：最早爆发疫情的11个小镇为“红区”，保持封锁；包括伦巴第和威尼托在内的三个大区及一省一市被列入“黄区”，限制公共活动；其余部分所在的第三个区，保持定期消毒。
The deployment of the national unity took place on 1 March, when Conte signed an executive decree on epidemic prevention, dividing the country into three regions: the first 11 towns where the outbreak first broke out to be "red zones," maintaining the blockade; three regions and one municipality, including Lombardy and Veneto, were included in the "yellow zone," restricting public activities; the third district, where the rest is located, was regularly disinfected.
当3月8日封城令从“红区”扩大至“黄区”时，央地矛盾被再度推到台前。
When the decree was extended from the "red zone" to the "yellow zone" on March 8, the central conflict was pushed to the stage again.
威尼托大区主席扎亚（Luca Zaia）上书孔特，公开反对中央政府划定的三个色区。
Luca Zaia, president of the region of Veneto, appealed to Conte to speak out against the three color zones set by the central government.
他认为威尼托的疫情正在好转，不该将之与传染扩大的伦巴第同等对待。
He thinks the epidemic in Veneto is improving and should not be treated in the same light as the spread of infection in Lombardy.
他要求孔特将威尼托移出封锁区域，但遭到了孔特的拒绝。
He asked Conte to remove Veneto from the cordoned-off area, but he refused.
还有一些地方领袖指责孔特未在封城决定之前与他们有效沟通，民众和地区政府对于自己该做什么很不清楚。
Other local leaders have accused Conte of failing to communicate effectively with them before sealing the city's decision, and citizens and regional governments remain unclear about what they should do.
因此封城的过程十分混乱，甚至出现了市民出逃南方的现象。
Therefore, the process of sealing the city is very chaotic, even the phenomenon of citizens fleeing to the south.
虽然地方的反对没有阻挡孔特的封城步伐，但受到地方势力掣肘的中央政府能在多大程度上执行封城和统筹防疫，仍然需要时间来检验。
While local opposition has not stopped Konte's siege, the extent to which the central government, constrained by local forces, can enforce the blockade and co-ordinate vaccination will take time to test.
2020年3月8日，意大利都灵，19/20赛季意甲第26轮，尤文图斯2比0击败国际米兰。
8 March 2020, Turin, Italy, 19th / 20th season Serie A 26th round, Juventus 2-0 defeat Inter Milan.
图为尤文图斯队员庆祝拉姆塞打进首球，在他们身前是空无一人的看台。
Juventus celebrate Ramsey's first goal in an empty stands in front of them.
图片来源：视觉中国高度老龄化的社会结构早期的防疫不力为传染扩大播下了种子，但真正致命的是意大利高度老龄化的社会结构。
Source: Vision China's highly aging social structure The early ineffectiveness of immunization sowed the seeds of widespread infection, but the real killer is Italy's highly aging social fabric.
综合来看，进入疫情爆发期之后，意大利政府的决策其实是相对迅速有力的。
Taken together, the Italian government's decision-making after the outbreak was relatively rapid and robust.
在发现社区传染后的两天内，政府就迅速封锁了传染疫源地的11个小镇；当疫情进一步扩大时，政府果断宣布了全国停课；并补贴受到疫情影响的企业。
Within two days of the discovery of the epidemic in the community, the Government quickly sealed off 11 small towns that had been the focus of the epidemic; when the epidemic spread further, the Government decisively announced a nationwide moratorium; and subsidized businesses affected by the epidemic.
当欧洲大多数国家还在忧心检测能力踟蹰不前时，意大利已经利用本地大学研发出的新型检测方法，4-6小时出结果，以最大力度筛查潜在患者。
While most of Europe was hesitant to go ahead with its own tests, Italy produced the results in four to six hours, using new methods developed by local universities to screen potential patients with maximum force.
威尼托大区的Vo'Euganeo镇上有3041名居民，政府对他们全做了检测，无一遗漏，最终筛查出77名患者。
Vo & apos in Veneto; and Euganeo, with 3,041 residents, all tested by the government and eventually screened 77 patients.
但这些措施没能挡住死神的步伐。
But these measures did not stop Death's pace.
截至3月9日，意大利已有463名病人被新冠肺炎夺走了生命，死亡人数仅排在中国之后；5.04%的致死率远高于全球平均的3.4%。
As of March 9, 463 patients had died from pneumonia in Italy, just behind China; the fatality rate of 5.04 per cent was well above the global average of 3.4 per cent.
意大利的累计确诊人数刚刚超过韩国，但死亡人数是韩国的7倍、重症人数是韩国的13倍。
The cumulative number of confirmed cases in Italy is just above that in South Korea, but the death toll is seven times higher and the number of seriously ill is 13 times higher.
从全球数据来看，患有基础疾病的老年人是新冠易死人群，而意大利正好是全欧洲老龄化程度最高的国家，全球排第二，仅次于日本。
According to global data, older people with basic illnesses are the new top death toll, while Italy has the highest aging population in Europe, second only to Japan.
意大利卫生部对前105名死者的统计显示，他们平均年龄为81岁，大部分为男性。
Statistics from the Italian Ministry of Health for the first 105 deaths show that their average age is 81 years, mostly men.
三分之二的死者生前患有2种以上慢性疾病，最常见的是高血压，心血管疾病以及糖尿病。
Two-thirds of the dead had more than two chronic diseases, most commonly hypertension, cardiovascular disease, and diabetes.
新冠病毒入侵后引发炎症风暴，42.2%的死者年龄在80至89岁之间，32.4%的介于70和79岁之间，8.4%介于60和69岁之间。
The invasion of the new crown virus triggered an inflammatory storm, with 42.2 per cent of deaths occurring between 80 and 89 years of age, 32.4 per cent between 70 and 79 years of age and 8.4 per cent between 60 and 69 years of age.
意大利有全欧洲最高的老年人占比——2018年的数据显示，社会中有22.6%的人口都是65岁以上的老年人，居欧盟第一。
Italy has the highest proportion of older people in Europe - 22.6% of the population is older than 65, according to 2018 figures, the highest in the EU.
意大利的年龄中位数45.9岁也高于欧盟的中位数42.8岁，居欧盟第二。
Italy's median age of 45.9 years is also higher than the EU median of 42.8 years, the second highest in the EU.
接近1400万的意大利老年人口是个庞大的高危群体。
Italy's elderly population of nearly 14 million is a huge high-risk group.
政府一方面建议老人们减少出行——65岁以上、有健康问题的老人、75岁以上的健康老人，都被政府建议尽可能待在家里；另一方面，政府于3月初宣布了全境停学，其后的考虑之一是，儿童虽然不是新冠的易感易死人群，但很有可能成为家中老人的传染源。
On the one hand, the government advises older people to travel less - 65-year-olds with health problems, and healthy older people over 75 - to stay at home as much as possible. On the other hand, the government announced a nationwide suspension in early March.
然而，一旦错过了早期控制的窗口，总体感染人数激增，医疗资源出现挤兑，老人就是抗风险能力最弱的群体。
However, once the window for early control has been missed, the overall number of infections surges and there is a run on medical resources, with the elderly being the most vulnerable group.
正常状况下，意大利每10万人中可保证262.5张监护病床，在欧盟国家里排在中游水平。
Under normal conditions, Italy has 262.5 beds for every 100,000 people, which is at the midstream level in the EU.
但到了3月初，随着每日新增1000例以上病例成为常态，北方三大重灾区的医疗机构纷纷发出警报：监护病床已经使用了95%，捉襟见肘。
But by early March, as more than 1,000 new cases a day became the norm, health-care facilities in the three hardest-hit areas of the north were warning that 95% of beds were already in use.
伦巴第大区甚至开始向疫情相对轻微的托斯卡纳大区转移病人。
The Lombardy region has even begun to transfer patients to the Tuscany region, where the epidemic is relatively mild.
3月8日，总理不得不签署法令，征调20万医护进入重灾区抗疫。
On March 8, the Prime Minister had to sign a decree calling for the transfer of 200,000 medical personnel to fight the epidemic in hard-hit areas.
医疗机构也不得不做出艰难的伦理选择。
Medical institutions also have to make difficult ethical choices.
3月7日，意大利重症监护协会SIAARTI发布了关于新冠救治的“伦理建议十五条”，指出为了使最大多数人的利益最大化，有必要设置进入ICU的年龄限制，将资源留给“最有可能存活的人”和“生命剩余年份更多的人”。
On March 7, the Italian ICU SIAARTI issued its "Ethical Recommendation 15" on new crown treatments, arguing that, in order to maximize benefits for the greatest number of people, it is necessary to set an age limit for entry into the ICU, leaving resources for the "most likely to survive" and "many more in the remaining years of life."
也就是说，一旦医疗资源出现短缺，医生很有可能会优先救治年轻人，而老年人的生命则被放弃。
In other words, in the event of a shortage of medical resources, doctors are likely to give priority to young people, while the lives of the elderly will be abandoned.
各自为政的欧洲盟友无法从外界、特别是欧洲盟友那里获得及时有效的援助，是意大利继续身陷疫情泥潭的外部原因。
The inability of Europe's fragmented allies to receive timely and effective aid, especially from their European allies, is the external reason why Italy continues to be mired in the epidemic.
随着塞浦路斯3月9日首次确诊新冠病例，27个欧盟国家终于无一“免疫”。
With the first new cases confirmed in Cyprus on March 9, none of the 27 EU countries has been "immunized."
除了疫情最严重的意大利，德国、法国、西班牙均已有过千确诊。
In addition to the worst epidemic in Italy, Germany, France, Spain have been more than a thousand diagnoses.
不少观察人士称，新冠疫情是2015年难民危机之后欧洲国家共同面临的最大挑战。
Many observers say the new crown is the biggest challenge facing European nations after the 2015 refugee crisis.
1月底，意大利刚刚决定停飞中国时，曾希望可以说服其他欧盟国家也采取类似的措施。
When Italy decided to suspend flights to China at the end of January, it hoped to persuade other EU countries to follow suit.
申根协定之下，如果只有一个欧盟国家限飞，效果将会十分有限。
Under the Schengen agreement, the effect would be limited if only one EU country were to fly.
但大多数欧盟国家拒绝了这个请求，只有捷克也决定限飞。
But most European Union countries rejected the request, and only the Czech Republic decided to limit flights.
上周，意大利尝试通过欧盟民事防护机制（EU's civil protection mechanism）向欧盟请求防护物资的支援，但遭到了成员国的拒绝。
Last week, Italy tried to use EU & amp; amp; apos; s civil protection mechanism to ask the EU for help with protective equipment, but was rejected by member states.
意大利原本希望，欧盟可以协调成员国进行物资采购，再按照疫情严重程度分发给各国。
Italy had hoped that the EU could co-ordinate the procurement of goods among its members and distribute them to countries according to the severity of the outbreak.
不过疫情之下，成员国大多自顾不暇，希望把口罩等防护物资留在本国使用。
However, the epidemic, the majority of Member States are preoccupied with the desire to put masks and other protective materials for use in their own countries.
目前德法均禁止了口罩出口。
Both Germany and France have banned the export of masks.
上周末，德国还拦截了一辆开往瑞士的口罩货车。
Last weekend, Germany also stopped a respirator truck bound for Switzerland.
作为一个超国家组织，欧盟对成员国的约束能力非常有限，更多是扮演一种协调的角色。
As a supranational organization, the EU has very limited binding power over its member states, and plays a more coordinating role.
一位欧盟外交官对Politico表示，卫生政策“是国家职能，而非欧盟的职能”，欧盟不能干涉成员国是否停飞、是否封城、如何调配防疫物资。
A European Union diplomat told Politico that health policy was "a national function, not an EU function," and that the EU could not interfere with whether, if and how member states were grounded.
欧盟职能只是助推成员国让它们各自进行协调。
The EU's function is simply to facilitate coordination among member states.
欧洲疾控中心（ECDC）是欧盟下属的传染病防治协调组织，成立于2003年非典爆发之后。
The European Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (ECDC) is the EU's co-ordinating organisation for infectious diseases, established after the outbreak of SARS in 2003.
2月24日，欧洲疾控中心同世卫组织一道向意大利派出了专家组。
On 24 February, the European CDC, together with WHO, sent a team of experts to Italy.
但有批评声音指出，欧洲疾控中心并未在新冠疫情中发挥应有的作用。
But critics say the CDC is not playing its rightful role in the new crown.
英国《金融时报》发表社论，指欧盟应适当放松财政纪律以协助意大利应对疫情。
An editorial in the Financial Times said the European Union should ease fiscal discipline properly to help Italy deal with the outbreak.
欧盟要求成员国的赤字率不超过3%。
The EU requires member states to run deficits of no more than 3%.
目前受疫情影响最严重的北部地区正是意大利的经济引擎。
The northern region most affected by the epidemic is Italy's economic engine.
适当松绑、政府多一点增加预算的空间将有利于疫情防范，而欧盟尚未作出回应。
A properly loosened government with more room for budget increases would help prevent the disease, and the EU has yet to respond.
END点击图片查看相关内容未经授权 禁止转载。
END Click on the picture to view the relevant content unauthorized reprint.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
从封城到锁国，意大利为何身陷疫情泥潭。
From the Seals to the Locks, why Italy is mired in an epidemic.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "从封城到锁国，意大利为何身陷疫情泥潭";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Why did Italy fall victim to AT & quot; from blockade to lock?
var msg_desc = "一个医疗条件优良、应对迅速、信息透明的欧洲国家，何以被疫情肆虐至此？";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; How did a European country with good health care, rapid response, and transparent information suffer from the epidemic? & quot;
title: '欧洲确诊病例超7000，意大利求援助医护装备仅得一国响应',。
With over 7,000 confirmed cases in Europe, Italy's request for medical assistance came at the request of only one country.
subject_name: '界面新闻',。
Subject _ name: & apos; interface news & amp; apos;;,
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
