美国确诊突破700例，特朗普刚任命的白宫新管家也隔离了。
More than 700 cases have been diagnosed in the United States, and Trump's new White House housekeeper has been quarantined.
刘芳。
Liu Fang.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
2月28日，梅多斯参加保守派政治行动会议。
On 28 February, Meadows participated in the Conservative Political Action Conference.
图片来源：推特记者：刘芳“ “出于高度谨慎，梅多斯接受了检测，结果呈阴性。
Source: Twitter: Liu Fang. Meadows was tested for extreme caution and came back negative.
虽然他没有出现任何症状，但在医生的标准建议下，他将待在家里直到本周三结束隔离。
Although he did not show any symptoms, he will stay at home until the end of the quarantine on Wednesday, as recommended by his doctor.
””在美国股市于周一经历了历史性暴跌的时刻，新冠肺炎疫情正在这个国家更加肆无忌惮地蔓延。
"The new crown pneumonia epidemic is spreading more recklessly in the country at a time when US stock markets experienced a historic plunge on Monday.
截至当地时间3月9日19点，全美已经有36个州和华盛顿特区出现新冠肺炎确诊病例，累计总人数至少达到704例，共计26人死亡。
By 19: 00 local time on March 9, 36 states and Washington, D.C., had confirmed cases of pneumonia, bringing the cumulative total to at least 704, for a total of 26 deaths.
CNN数据显示，周一的确诊病例比周日至少增多了100例。
There were at least 100 more confirmed cases on Monday than on Sunday, according to CNN.
而在华盛顿州柯克兰市的养老院（Life Care Center Kirkland）里，悲剧还在继续上演。
And in the Life Care Center Kirkland in Kirkland, Washington, the tragedy continues.
周一当天，又有3名老人因感染新冠肺炎相继去世，使这个养老院两周内的死亡总人数上升至26人，占疫情爆发前总人数的21%。
On Monday, three more elderly people died of pneumonia, raising the total number of deaths in the nursing home to 26 within two weeks, 21 percent of the total before the outbreak.
在这26人中有至少13人被确诊，19人的症状和新冠肺炎密切相关。
At least 13 of the 26 people were diagnosed, and the symptoms of 19 were closely related to pneumonia in the new crown.
目前，有54名老人因情况危急被陆续送到了当地医院。
At present, 54 elderly people are being transported to local hospitals due to the critical situation.
对于仍被困在养老院的55名老人来说，情况也十分凶险。
For the 55 elderly people still trapped in nursing homes, the situation is also very dangerous.
9日当天又有31名被困老人被确诊感染新冠肺炎，其余还在等待检测结果。
A further 31 people were diagnosed with pneumonia on Tuesday and the rest are still awaiting test results.
卢特曼（Curtis Luterman）89岁的母亲目前在养老院内。
Curtis Luterman's 89-year-old mother is currently in a nursing home.
他对《洛杉矶时报》表示：“我不怨这里的工作人员，但我怨政府官员的反应。
"I don't blame the people here, but I do complain about the reaction of government officials," he told the Los Angeles Times.
如果疾控中心（CDC）对这样一个小型护理机构的反应都如此糟糕，想象一下如果发生在洛杉矶市中心或纽约的一家大型养老院会是怎样。
If the CDC had reacted so badly to such a small nursing home, imagine what it would be like to be in downtown Los Angeles or a large nursing home in New York.
”更令人忧心的是，当地卫生机构直到周一尚未向养老院工作人员提供足够的试剂盒。
More worryingly, local health authorities did not provide sufficient kits for nursing home staff until Monday.
路透社报道称，目前至少有65名员工出现了新冠肺炎的症状，但他们不明白为什么没有试剂盒。
Reuters reported that at least 65 employees had developed symptoms of pneumonia, but they did not understand why there was no kit.
养老院发言人基利安（Tim Killian）告诉记者：“我们需要更多的试剂盒来测试员工，我们一直在询问向我们提供检测工具的各个政府机构。
Tim Killian, a spokesman for the nursing home, told reporters: "We need more kits to test our staff, and we've been asking the various government agencies that supply us with testing tools.
”the Life Care Center Kirkland的老人被送至当地医院。
The elder from the Life Care Center Kirkland was taken to a local hospital.
来源：Seattle Times除了柯克兰市的老人们以外，特朗普政府高级官员的健康情况也引人关注。
Source: In addition to the old folks in Kirkland, the health of senior Trump administration officials is a matter of concern.
周一，特朗普最新任命的白宫幕僚长梅多斯（Mark Meadows）宣布他因曾和新冠肺炎患者密切接触而开始隔离。
On Monday, Trump's newly appointed White House Chief of Staff, Mark Meadows, announced that he had begun isolation because of his close contact with patients with Newcastle pneumonia.
梅多斯的办公室在一份声明中表示：“本周末梅多斯接到通知，12天前他可能接触过（保守派政治行动会议）的确诊患者。
"Meadows was notified this weekend that he might have had access to a confirmed patient 12 days ago," Meadows's office said in a statement.
”“出于高度谨慎，梅多斯接受了检测，结果呈阴性。
"Meadows was tested for high caution and tested negative.
虽然他没有出现任何症状，但在医生的标准建议下，他将待在家里直到本周三结束隔离。
Although he did not show any symptoms, he will stay at home until the end of the quarantine on Wednesday, as recommended by his doctor.
”由于美国总统特朗普曾和确诊病患的密切接触者有过互动，他是否接受了新冠肺炎检测也成了记者好奇的问题。
Given that US President Trump has interacted with close contacts with patients who have been diagnosed, the question of whether he has tested for pneumonia in the New Crown has also become a matter of curiosity.
对此，白宫在周一表示：“总统没有接受新冠肺炎检测，因为他既没有与任何已知的确诊患者进行长时间的密切接触，也没有任何症状。
"The president did not undergo the Crown Pneumonia test because he was neither in close contact with any known confirmed patient for a long time, nor did he have any symptoms," the White House said Monday.
特朗普总统的健康状况非常好，他的医生将继续密切监测他的情况。
President Trump is in excellent health, and his doctors will continue to monitor his situation closely.
”随着疫情向各行各业蔓延，美国出现首个要求居家办公的联邦机构。
As the epidemic spread to all walks of life, the first federal agency to require telecommuting appeared.
出于谨慎，美国证券交易委员会（SEC）发出通知，要求总部员工停止坐班，改为居家办公。
Caution led the Securities and Exchange Commission to issue a circular requiring headquarters staff to stop working from home.
SEC在发给员工的邮件中表示，一名员工因呼吸道症状在周一早上接受了治疗，并被医生告知可能感染了新冠肺炎。
In an email to employees, the SEC said a worker who had been treated for respiratory symptoms on Monday morning was told by doctors he might have contracted pneumonia.
邮件称此员工自周四起就在家休病假：“据我们所知，该员工在大楼内期间一直没有任何症状。
The email said the employee had been on sick leave at home since Thursday: "To our knowledge, the employee did not have any symptoms while in the building.
”SEC是美国联邦政府对金融市场的主要监管机构之一，在全国拥有4000多名员工。
The SEC, one of the federal government's main regulators of financial markets, employs more than 4,000 people nationwide.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
美国确诊突破700例，特朗普刚任命的白宫新管家也隔离了。
More than 700 cases have been diagnosed in the United States, and Trump's new White House housekeeper has been quarantined.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "美国确诊突破700例，特朗普刚任命的白宫新管家也隔离了";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Trump's new White House housekeeper.
var msg_desc = "“出于高度谨慎，梅多斯接受了检测，结果呈阴性。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "Meadows was tested as highly cautious and came negative.
虽然他没有出现任何症状，但在医生的标准建议下，他将待在家里直到本周三结束隔离。
Although he did not show any symptoms, he will stay at home until the end of the quarantine on Wednesday, as recommended by his doctor.
”";。
";;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
