疫情过后还要养殖果子狸? 江西省野保局：不属实，相关政策有待国家进一步明确。
After the outbreak to breed civet civet? Jiangxi Wild Insurance Bureau: Not true, the relevant policies need to be further clarified by the state.
牛其昌。
Niu Qichang.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国记者：牛其昌“ 江西省野保局局长称，目前正在按照国家统一部署，对全省野生动物养殖行业进行摸底。
Source: China Visual Correspondent: Niu Qichang, director of Jiangxi Province's Nombo Bureau, said he was mapping the wildlife industry across the province in line with the country's unified deployment.
”近日，一份网传《请求将部分人工繁育陆生野生动物列入国家有关目录管理的请示》（下称《请示》）引发关注。
A recent request by the Internet to list some land-based wild animals for artificial breeding has aroused concern.
界面新闻注意到，这份由江西省上报给农业农村部、国家林草局的《请示》，请求将果子狸、竹鼠等部分人工繁育技术成熟稳定的兽类和鸟类野生动物物种列入“畜禽遗传资源目录”，按照《畜牧法》等相关法律法规的规定管理。
The request, submitted by Jiangxi Province to the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs and the State Forestry and Rural Bureau, requested that animal and bird wildlife species with mature and stable artificial breeding techniques, such as civet beavers and bamboo mice, be included in the "Catalogue of Animal Genetic Resources" and be managed in accordance with the Livestock Law and other relevant laws and regulations.
“请示”还指出，江西是野生动物资源大省，野生动物人工繁育产业是该省重要的特色养殖产业，也是林业精准扶贫的重要产业之一。
The paper also pointed out that Jiangxi Province is a major wildlife resources province, wildlife artificial breeding industry is the province's important characteristics of aquaculture industry, as well as forestry precision poverty alleviation one of the important industries.
由于近期全国人大出台新的决定，但后续配套政策尚未跟进，野生动物人工繁育利用行业正面临破产倒闭或负债累累的艰难处境。
Due to the new decision of the National People's Congress recently, but the follow-up policy has not been followed up, the wild animal breeding industry is facing bankruptcy or heavy debt.
2020年3月9日，江西省林业局野生动植物保护管理局局长涂晓斌对界面新闻表示，江西省并没有出台过上述文件，也没有提交农村农业部和国家林草局。
On March 9, 2020, Tu Xiaobin, director of the Forestry Administration of Jiangxi Province, told the Interface News that Jiangxi did not have such a document, nor did it submit it to the Ministry of Rural Agriculture or the State Forestry Bureau.
“都是一些内部资料，不知是哪里传出来的。
"It's all inside information. I don't know where it came from.
”2月24日，十三届全国人大常委会表决通过了《全国人大常委会关于全面禁止非法野生动物交易、革除滥食野生动物陋习、切实保障人民群众生命健康安全的决定》（下称《决定》），明确自2月24日起，在原有法律禁止食用的野生动物的基础上，全面禁止食用“国家保护的有重要生态、科学、社会价值的陆生野生动物”以及其他陆生野生动物，包括人工繁育、人工饲养的陆生野生动物；全面禁止以食用为目的猎捕、交易、运输在野外环境自然生长繁殖的陆生野生动物。
On February 24, the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress adopted the Decision of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress on banning all illegal wildlife trade, eliminating abuses of wildlife and ensuring people's lives, health and safety.
2月27日，市场监管总局网络交易监督管理司司长梁艾福在国务院联防联控机制新闻发布会上指出，按照野生动物保护的相关法律，此前侧重点放在珍稀濒危野生动物的保护上。
Liang Aifu, director of the online trading supervision and management division of the General Administration of Market Supervision and Administration, told a news conference at the State Council's Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism that the focus had previously been on the protection of rare and endangered wildlife, according to wildlife laws.
“而如今，按照全国人大常委会最新公布的决定，凡是没有列入畜禽遗传资源目录的陆生野生动物，一律禁止食用。
"Now, according to the latest decision of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress, all terrestrial wildlife not included in the catalogue of animal genetic resources is prohibited from eating.
”在此之前，根据《野生动物保护法》（2018修正）规定相关政策，禁食范围局限于国家重点保护野生动物，由于果子狸未被列入，往往“合法”地成为一些食客餐桌上的“野味”。
Prior to that, under the Wildlife Conservation Act (2018 amendment), the fast was restricted to state-protected wildlife and was often "legalized" as a "game" on the table for some diners because beavers were not included.
按照最新《决定》，果子狸不在畜禽遗传资源目录之列，因此或被禁止食用。
According to the latest Decision, civet beavers are not included in the list of animal genetic resources and are therefore prohibited from consumption.
界面新闻注意到，以上提到的“畜禽遗传资源目录”，源自原农业部2014年2月发布的2061号通告：根据《畜牧法》第十二条的规定，结合第二次全国畜禽遗传资源调查结果，对《国家级畜禽遗传资源保护名录》（中华人民共和国农业部公告第662号）进行了修订，确定八眉猪等159个畜禽品种为国家级畜禽遗传资源保护品种。
The Interface News noted that the above-mentioned Catalogue of Animal Genetic Resources was derived from Circular 2061 issued by the former Ministry of Agriculture in February 2014, amending the State-level Livestock Genetic Resources Protection List (Ministry of Agriculture Notice No. 662) in the light of the results of the Second National Animal Genetic Resources Survey.
这159个品种分为七大类，分别为猪、鸡、鸭、鹅、牛马驼、羊及其他品种。
The 159 species are divided into seven categories: pigs, chickens, ducks, geese, alpacas, sheep and other species.
根据上述网传《请示》，如果将果子狸、竹鼠等部分人工繁育技术成熟稳定的兽类和鸟类野生动物物种列入“畜禽遗传资源目录”，按照《畜牧法》等相关法律法规的规定管理，那么果子狸就可以进入食用范围。
If animal and bird wildlife species, some of which are mature and stable in artificial breeding techniques, are included in the "Catalogue of Animal Genetic Resources," which is regulated by the Livestock Law and other relevant laws and regulations, the beaver can enter the food range.
对此，涂晓斌予以否认，“规定禁食的权力在全国人大，省里没有这个权力，我们会严格贯彻落实全国人大的相关决定。
"The power to fast is vested in the NPC, which does not have this power in the province, and we will strictly implement the relevant decisions of the NPC," he said.
”界面新闻梳理发现，2003年5月23日，深圳疾病预防控制中心和香港大学宣布，研究人员从野生动物果子狸身上查到的SARS病毒与人体中发现的完全一致。
Interface News found that on May 23, 2003, the Shenzhen Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the University of Hong Kong announced that the SARS virus researchers found in wild civet beavers was identical to that found in humans.
为防止人们食用果子狸肉，导致感染SARS病毒，香港当即禁止果子狸入境。
To prevent people from eating civet meat and contracting the SARS virus, Hong Kong immediately banned civet beavers from entering Hong Kong.
紧接着，广东、上海等地也明令禁止市场上果子狸交易。
Subsequently, Guangdong, Shanghai and other places also expressly prohibit the market civet trade.
2003年8月，原国家林业局发布“商业性经营利用驯养繁殖技术成熟的梅花鹿等54种陆生野生动物名单”，果子狸名列其中。
In August 2003, the former State Forestry Administration issued a list of 54 species of land-based wild animals, such as deer that are commercially bred and domesticated.
明确其商业性经营利用驯养繁殖技术成熟，按照我国有关法律法规规定，可以从事经营利用性驯养繁殖和经营。
It is clear that its commercial operation and use of domesticated breeding technology mature, in accordance with China's relevant laws and regulations, can engage in commercial domesticated breeding and management.
对此，广西、海南等地还专门起草了《果子狸人工养殖技术规程》。
To this end, Guangxi, Hainan and other places also specially drafted "Beaver artificial breeding technical rules."
江西日报曾在2019年11月报道过江西省万安县饲养果子狸的“致富经”：“30只母狸可产子狸90只左右，每只子狸半年至一年可长为5公斤商品狸，按每公斤200元计算，90只可卖9万元。
In November 2019, Jiangxi Daily reported on the "Sutra" of raising civet beavers in Wanan County, Jiangxi Province: "Thirty beavers can give birth to about 90 beavers, and each one can grow five kilograms of beavers for six months to one year, costing 200 yuan per kilogram and selling 90 animals for 90,000 yuan.
除去成本，一年利润就有5万余元。
Excluding the cost, the profit is over 50,000 yuan a year.
”该县沙坪镇、高陂镇、百嘉镇就有560户共1700多人在政府部门的帮扶下，签约养殖果子狸，奔向致富路。
With the help of government departments, 560 households in Sha Ping Town, Gaopi Town and Baijia Town have signed up to breed civets and run to Zhifu Road.
涂晓斌彼时在接受采访时表示，经合格检疫并持有批准手续（林业部门许可），人工养殖果子狸可在市场流通并走上餐桌，且市场前景十分广阔。
In an interview, Tu said that after passing the quarantine test and holding the approval form (forestry department license), the artificial civet beaver can circulate in the market and walk on the table, and the market prospect is very broad.
然而，突如其来的新冠肺炎疫情，让公众充分认识到食用野味的危害性，并达成全面“禁野”的共识。
However, the outbreak of sudden new crown pneumonia, let the public fully aware of the harm of eating game, and reached a comprehensive "ban" consensus.
北京大学生命科学学院教授吕植领衔的山水自然保护中心曾列出了6种对公共安全有危害的野生动物，排在第一位的就是果子狸。
The Mountain and Water Nature Conservancy, led by Lu Zhiyuan, a professor at Peking University's School of Life Sciences, listed six species of wild animals that are dangerous to public safety.
2月27日，国家林草局宣布全面整顿野生动物人工繁育和经营利用从业机构，要求以食用为目的从事陆生野生动物人工繁育的，须撤回并注销所核发的人工繁育许可证件或文书，并一律停止为食用目的出售、运输野生动物等活动。
On 27 February, the State Forestry and Forestry Administration announced a general overhaul of wildlife breeding and utilization agencies, requiring those engaged in the artificial breeding of wild animals for food to withdraw and cancel artificial breeding licenses or instruments issued and to stop selling and transporting wildlife for food.
“现在我们正在按照国家统一部署，对全省野生动物养殖行业进行摸底工作，要摸清哪些是属于畜禽遗传资源目录的，哪些是作为药用的，哪些是食用的。
"Now we are working to map the wildlife industry across the province, in accordance with the unified national deployment, to find out which are listed as animal genetic resources, which are medicinal and which are edible.
在摸清底数之后，该更换的更换，该撤销的撤销。
After the bottom number is known, the replacement is replaced and the revocation is revoked.
”涂晓斌表示，针对野生动物养殖需要有一个界定的过程，以果子狸为例，它既包括药用又包括食用，有的则被用来做皮草加工。
Mr. Tu says there needs to be a defined process for raising wild animals, with beavers used for medicinal, food and fur processing, for example.
至于哪些能养殖，相关政策还有待国家进一步明确。
As for which can breed, the related policy still needs to be further clarified by the country.
据业内人士表示，人工养殖果子狸，最主要的目的就是作为食用，全面禁食对当地意味着不可避免的经济损失。
According to industry sources, the main purpose of artificial breeding civets is as food, the total fasting means inevitable local economic losses.
根据网传《请示》，江西省现有野生动物人工繁育单位或个人4424家，固定资产投入56.38亿元，年产值62.79亿元；野生动物经营利用单位1641家，年产值80.6亿元，行业从业人员达12万多人。
According to the online bulletin, 4,424 wildlife breeding units or individuals in Jiangxi Province have fixed assets worth 5.638 billion yuan, with an annual output value of 6.279 billion yuan, and 1,641 wildlife operation and utilization units, with an annual output value of 8.06 billion yuan, employing more than 120,000 people.
全省野生动物人工繁育产业共涉及323个扶贫项目，资金投入达5.6亿元，产业共带动11531户农户就业，涉及建档立卡贫困户8767户，其中还有951户尚未脱贫，野生动物人工繁育产业带动贫困户户均增收4000多元，多则达5万多元，在脱贫攻坚中发挥着重要作用。
The artificial breeding industry of wild animals in the province has involved 323 poverty alleviation projects, with an investment of 560 million yuan, and led to the employment of 11,531 rural households. Of these, 951 households are still living in poverty.
《请示》中强调，由于《决定》突然出台，管理政策紧急调整，后续配套政策又尚未跟进出台，迅速引发野生动物人工繁育利用行业从业人员的极度恐慌，特别是一些野生动物人工繁育企业和大户，涉及大量贷款，正面临破产倒闭或负债累累的艰难处境，直接影响到基层群众的切身利益和社会稳定。
It was stressed that the sudden introduction of the Decision, the urgent adjustment of management policies and the absence of a follow-up policy had triggered a great deal of panic among those working in the field of wildlife artificial breeding and utilization, in particular the fact that some wildlife breeding enterprises and large enterprises, involving large amounts of loans, are facing bankruptcy or heavy debt.
“影响确实很大，江西野生动物养殖主要集中在老区，比如赣南地区，关系到当地的脱贫攻坚，对此我们也在等国家的政策。
"The impact is really great. Wild animal husbandry in Jiangxi is mainly concentrated in the old areas, such as southern Jiangxi, which is related to the local poverty eradication efforts.
”涂晓斌表示，在畜禽遗传资源目录之外，如果涉及食用的，肯定要撤销相关人工繁育许可证书，涉及到的安抚解释、资金补偿工作也要落实到位。
In addition to the animal genetic resources catalogue, if food is involved, the relevant artificial breeding license must be revoked, and the work involved in placatory interpretation and financial compensation should also be put in place, according to Tu.
对此，《决定》中明确，国务院和地方人民政府应当采取必要措施，为本决定的实施提供相应保障。
In this regard, the Decision stipulates that the State Council and local people's governments shall take necessary measures to ensure the implementation of this Decision.
有关地方人民政府应当支持、指导、帮助受影响的农户调整、转变生产经营活动，根据实际情况给予一定补偿。
The local people's governments concerned shall support, guide and assist the affected peasant households in adjusting and transforming their production and operation activities, and shall make appropriate compensation in light of actual conditions.
谈及畜禽遗传资源目录，2月27日，市场监管总局网络交易监督管理司司长梁艾福在国务院联防联控机制新闻发布会上表示，“目录里将来都有什么，还需要下一步不断地健全和完善”。
On February 27, Liang Aifu, director of the Internet Trade Supervision and Management Division of the General Administration of Market Supervision and Administration, told a press conference of the State Council's Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism that "what is in the catalogue for the future needs to be further improved and improved."
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情过后还要养殖果子狸? 江西省野保局：不属实，相关政策有待国家进一步明确。
After the outbreak to breed civet civet? Jiangxi Wild Insurance Bureau: Not true, the relevant policies need to be further clarified by the state.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "疫情过后还要养殖果子狸? 江西省野保局：不属实，相关政策有待国家进一步明确";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; not true.
var msg_desc = "江西省野保局局长称，目前正在按照国家统一部署，对全省野生动物养殖行业进行摸底。
var msg _ desc = & quot; at present, the director of Jiangxi's provincial wildlife service says it is mapping the province's wildlife industry in line with its unified national deployment.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
