连载·黄冈日记⑤｜除夕夜值班护士：年夜饭是一碗泡面_直击现场_澎湃新闻-The Paper。
On New Year's Eve, the nurse on duty: The New Year's Eve meal is a bowl of noodles _ strike the scene _ surging news - The Paper.
报料。
News feed.
注册。
Registration.
登录。
Login.
下载APP。
Download APP.
精选。
Selected.
抗疫。
Anti-epidemic.
抗疫防控新型冠状病毒肺炎。
Anti-epidemic control of new coronavirus pneumonia.
。
.
视频。
Video.
上直播。
Live broadcast.
拉近你与现场距离。
Bring you closer to the scene.
七环视频。
Seven-ring video.
为了更美好的生活。
For a better life.
温度计。
Thermometers.
深度记录社会冷暖。
Depth of record society warm and cold.
一级视场。
Level 1 field of view.
及时现场，洞察财经事件。
On-site, insight into financial issues.
World湃。
World surging.
看见新闻全球化。
See the globalization of information.
湃客科技。
Pai guest technology.
聚焦前沿，展现新兴企业。
Focus on the frontier and showcase emerging businesses.
纪录湃。
The record runs high.
纪录澎湃中国。
China is on record.
围观。
Look around.
以影像介入社会生活。
Imaging into social life.
@所有人。
@ All.
所有人在看。
Everyone's watching.
大都会。
Metropolis.
看上海 最都会。
It's the best city in Shanghai.
追光灯。
Searchlight.
让你看到文艺生活。
Let you see the literary life.
运动装。
Sportswear.
直观运动，可以装不要伪装。
Intuitive movement, can be installed without camouflage.
健寻记。
Health care.
追寻活到一百岁的秘诀。
The secret to living to be a hundred years old.
AI播报。
AI announces.
互联网新闻+：AI播报。
Internet news +: AI broadcasts.
眼界。
Eye-catching.
每日一条视频，与新闻同步。
One video per day, synced with the news.
时事。
Current affairs.
中国政库洞悉中国动向的时政解读。
China's treasurer has insight into the current state of affairs in China.
中南海权威细致的领导人报道。
Zhongnanhai authority meticulous leader report.
舆论场倾听复杂世界的弦外之音。
Opinion circles listen to the implications of the complex world.
打虎记中国反腐报道第一平台。
Tiger Kit China Anti-Corruption Report First Platform.
人事风向快速专业的人事信息集合地。
Personnel wind speed and professional collection of personnel information.
法治中国司改风向，法治观察。
Rule of Law China Division wind direction, rule of law observation.
一号专案司法个案，法治调查。
Ad hoc Judicial Case No. 1, Rule of Law Investigations.
港台来信感觉不一样的港台报道。
RTHK's letter feels different from RTHK's report.
长三角政商解读区域政情与财富故事。
The Yangtze River Delta political and economic interpretation of regional political and wealth story.
直击现场第一现场，文图视频直播。
Click on the scene of the first scene, text video live.
公益湃记录公益发展，共建责任生态。
Public welfare record of public welfare development, jointly build ecological responsibility.
。
.
暖闻人间真善美，社会正能量。
Hear the world is good and beautiful, society is positive energy.
。
.
澎湃质量报告打假除劣，破套防坑——专注消费者权益保护。
Pai Pai quality report to fight fraud and shoddy, broken pit - focus on consumer rights and interests protection.
绿政公署环境与公共健康调查。
Environmental and Public Health Survey of the Green Administration.
澎湃国际All News In。
All News In, Peng Pai.
外交学人New World Order。
Diplomat New World Order.
澎湃防务Cyclopedia for military。
Cyclopedia for military defence.
唐人街海外利益，华人故事。
Overseas Interests in Chinatown, Chinese Stories.
澎湃人物提供最有态度的人物报道。
The roaring characters provide the most critical coverage of the characters.
浦江头条上海每天最重要的事件。
The most important events of the day in Shanghai.
教育家最先进的教育理念在此碰撞。
Educators' most advanced educational ideas collide here.
全景现场360度感识全景现场。
Panoramic scene 360-degree panorama scene.
美数课数字是骨骼，设计是灵魂。
Numbers are bones; design is the soul.
快看快看，图片会说话。
Look quick. Pictures talk.
财经。
Finance.
10%公司派发上市公司变革红利。
10 per cent distribute change dividends to listed companies.
能见度能源行业最具穿透力的思想。
Visibility The most penetrating thinking in the energy industry.
地产界地产界所有你想知道的事儿。
Real estate Everything you want to know.
财经上下游跨界找寻市场常识。
Cross-boundary market common sense.
金改实验室金融创新灵感集散地。
Financial innovation center of Jinchang Lab.
牛市点线面简单专业时尚的财富平台。
Bull market simple professional fashion wealth platform.
科技湃让我们走近科学。
Technology has brought us closer to science.
澎湃商学院品牌课外书，生活经济学。
Peng Pai Business School Brand Extracurricular Books, Life Economics.
自贸区连线自贸区第一信息和服务平台。
Free Trade Area line free trade area first information and service platform.
进博会在线走进中国国际进口博览会。
Into the Fair online into China International Import Expo.
澎湃号。
'cried the roar.
湃客。
The roar.
政务。
Government affairs.
媒体。
The media.
思想。
Ideas.
社论澎湃的立场。
The editorial was strong.
澎湃评论在这里知道更多。
Pai Pai comments know more here.
思想湃明亮的对话，澎湃的思想。
Thoughts of bright dialogue, surging thoughts.
上海书评全球百位华文写作名家撰稿。
The Shanghai Book Review is written by 100 leading Chinese writers.
思想市场有竞争的思想讲底蕴的政治。
The thought market has the competitive thought to speak the underlying politics.
私家历史发现历史之美。
Private history finds the beauty of history.
翻书党微时代的首选书单。
Turn over the book party microage first choice book list.
艺术评论独立态度解析中外艺术热点。
Artistic Comment Independent Attitude Analyzes the Hot Spots of Chinese and Foreign Art.
古代艺术巡礼人类的艺术遗产。
Ancient Art Parades the artistic heritage of mankind.
文化课关注人文景观投身人类文明。
Cultural courses focus on humanistic landscape into human civilization.
逝者记录逝者为世界留下的财富。
The dead record the wealth left to the world by the dead.
澎湃研究所为中国城市问题提供澎湃方案。
The Peng Pai Institute offers a robust programme on urban issues in China.
。
.
市政厅中国城市问题专家。
City Hall of China experts on urban issues.
城市漫步人塑造地方，地方也塑造人。
Urban strollers shape places, and places shape people.
智库报告展示全球最具价值的智库研究成果。
The think tank report showcases the world's most valuable think tank research.
专栏名家专家，上天入地。
An expert columnist.
异次元打破次元壁。
Heterogeneous element breaks the secondary wall.
生活。
Life.
有戏陪你过一种审美的生活。
Have a play to accompany you to live an aesthetic life.
文艺范一线文艺生活。
Literary and artistic life.
身体探索身体的奥秘。
The body explores the secrets of the body.
私·奔跑步是一种态度。
Personal running is an attitude.
运动家看体育如何改变世界。
Athletes see how sport can change the world.
私家地理旅途的旨趣、技艺以及乡愁。
The Purport, Skill, and Nostalgia of the Private Geographic Journey.
非常品用态度引领时尚。
A very good attitude leads to fashion.
楼市不一样的楼市观察。
Different property market observation.
生活方式更好生活，我们有一些意见。
We have some suggestions for a better way of life.
澎湃联播半个段子兽半个评论猿。
Half a section of the beast commented on apes.
视界视界观，观世界。
Look at the world, look at the world.
亲子学堂理解孩子，认知自己。
Parents and children learn to understand their children, know themselves.
赢家直击中国体育产业生存现状。
Winners strike at the survival of China's sports industry.
汽车圈专注汽车产经报道。
Auto industry focus on the auto industry report.
问吧。
'he asked.
订阅。
Subscriptions.
把你最喜欢的栏目添加到这里来哦。
Add your favorite column here.
马上登录。
Sign in now.
setMsgMark(); //login异步之后调用位置修改。
Call location modification after setMsgMark; / / login asynchronous.
// 顶部广告自适应。
/ / Top Advertising Adaptability.
// xml返回了creativeHeight。
/ / xml returned creativeLight.
//图片拓展图片时。
/ / Photo when expanding the picture.
if(typeof(xml.find("Cexpansion")[0])!="undefined"){   //是否需要展开。
If (typeof (xml. find; Cempansion & quot;) & # 91; 0 & # 93;)! = & quot; underdefined & quot;) {/ / whether it needs to be carried out.
var cexpansion = xml.find("Cexpansion")[0].textContent.trim();//展开时。
var text = xml. find (& quot; Cempansion & quot;) & # 91; 0 & # 93; .text Content.
//图片拓展视频时   。
/ / Photo when expanding the video.
//视频拓展视频时。
/ / Video when expanding the video.
//收起广告。
/ / Put the ad away.
//将 http://或者https:// 转为//。
/ / Conversion from http: / / https: / / to /.
首页。
Home page.
> 直击现场。
Running straight to the scene.
连载·黄冈日记⑤｜除夕夜值班护士：年夜饭是一碗泡面。
The Chinese New Year's Eve duty nurse: Lunar New Year's Eve is a bowl of noodles.
特邀作者 程定琴 杨梅 叶薇 金昊 孙璐 澎湃新闻记者 方岸 杜心羽 吴佳颖 实习生 李佳悦 整理。
Invited writer Cheng Ding Qin Yangmei Vicky Jin Hao Sun Lu Peng Pai journalist Wang Xin Yu Wu Jia Ying intern Li Jia Yue tidy.
2020-03-10 07:18 来源：澎湃新闻。
2020-03-10 07: 18 Source: surging news.
字号。
The font size.
超大。
Extremely large.
大。
Big.
标准。
Standards.
小。
Small.
【编者按】新冠病毒给湖北乃至全国带来一场危机，黄冈是这场疫情的重灾区之一。
The new crown virus brings a crisis to Hubei and even to the whole country. Huanggang is one of the hardest hit areas of the epidemic.
在这场战役中，黄冈人经历了旁观-卷入-创伤-斗争-反思的过程。
In this battle, the Huanggang people experienced the process of watching-involved-traumatizing-fighting-introspection.
我们用亲历者日记连载的形式，试图纵深还原疫情侵袭下的黄冈这60天。
We tried to restore Huanggang to 60 days under the attack of the epidemic in the form of a diary series of relatives.
黄冈市新冠肺炎防控工作指挥部通告 （第1号）发布，规定自1月23日24时起，黄冈市区公交、长途客运暂停运营；城铁站、火车站离开黄冈市区通道暂时关闭，无特殊原因，市民不要离开市区；黄冈市区所有影剧院、网吧和室内公共文化、旅游及娱乐场所暂停营业。
Since 2400 hours on January 23, the Huanggang District Public Transport and Long-haul Passenger Transport have been suspended. The city railway station and railway station are temporarily closed to the public without any special reason. All cinemas, Internet cafes and indoor public cultural, tourism and entertainment establishments in Huanggang District are temporarily closed.
即日起，在黄冈市区所有进出城道口，依法依规对过往车辆及人员实施疫情排查防控，不漏一人一车。
From now on, in Huanggang District, all in and out of the city crossings, in accordance with the rules of the epidemic control of vehicles and personnel, not leak a car.
（斜体字内容为编辑所加，下同）穿着笨重防护服的护士将50kg的氧气罐从走廊一步步挪到病人床边。
Nurses in bulky suits moved 50 kg of oxygen tanks down the hallway to the patient's bedside.
本文图片均为 受访者供图【程定琴：黄冈市中心医院呼吸内科护士】1月24日 今天是传统的除夕夜，轮值夜班，一碗泡面是我的年夜饭。
2007-9-25 21: 55 [center] [/ center] [/ center] [/ color] Today is the traditional New Year's Eve, the night shift, a bowl of noodles is my New Year's Eve dinner.
这注定是不平凡的一年。
It was destined to be an extraordinary year.
这个夜班极不太平。
The night shift is very uneven.
2床爹爹病情加重，呼吸机持续使用，血氧仍然升不起来，而且爹爹出现了嗜睡现象。
The 2-bed father's condition aggravates, the ventilator continues to use, the blood oxygen still cannot rise, and the father appeared drowsiness phenomenon.
当时的二医院医疗设备、抢救设备有限，值班医生詹赞医生预感情况不妙，立即联系ICU和急诊救护车，准备将病人转入ICU继续治疗。
At that time, the second hospital medical equipment, limited rescue equipment, duty doctor Dr. Janzan premonition bad situation, immediately contact ICU and emergency ambulance, ready to transfer patients to ICU to continue treatment.
焦急等到了救护车，我们又发愁了，病房没有电梯。
Anxious to wait for the ambulance, we worried again, there is no elevator in the ward.
爹爹个头高块头大，目测体重近200斤。
Dad was tall and tall, with a visual weight of nearly 200 jin.
救护车就在楼下，时间不等人，于是我们和詹赞医生、加上急诊科人员，决定一起将爹爹抬到楼下。
The ambulance was downstairs, and time was running out, so we decided to take Dad downstairs with Dr. Janzan and the emergency department.
我们从三楼一路艰难地下楼梯，几个人撑不住也不敢松手，终于将爹爹抬到了一楼。
We struggled down the stairs from the third floor. Several people couldn't hold up and finally carried Dad to the first floor.
病人抬上车那一刻，感觉手都不是我的了，顾不上手痛，只在心里祈祷路上千万不要出什么意外，安全到Icu才能得到更有效的治疗。
The patient lifts the car that moment, feels the hand is not mine, does not care for the hand pain, only prays in the heart certainly not to have any accident, safe to Icu to get more effective treatment.
来不及多想，赶紧回到病房，因为还有其他危重患者需要密切关注。
Do not think too much, hurry back to the ward, because there are other patients in critical need of close attention.
病人大都需要吸氧，还有高流氧治疗，但是这里没有供氧中心，只有最原始的氧气罐，高约150cm重约50kg。
Most patients need oxygen and high-flow oxygen therapy, but there is no oxygen supply center, only the most primitive oxygen tank, about 150 cm high, weighing about 50 kg.
病人需氧量大，一整个晚上，我和其他医护人员只得不停搬动这些大家伙，从储放氧气罐的地方，旋转着一步步挪到病人床边；再用大扳手拧下氧气流量表对接新罐，空氧气罐依然要一步步地挪到指定存放处，最远的可能要移动200米。
The patient needed oxygen so much that I and the other paramedics had to keep moving the big guys all night, spinning from the oxygen tank to the patient's bedside; wrenching the oxygen flow meter off the wrench and docking the tank, the empty oxygen tank would still have to be moved to the designated repository step by step, perhaps as far as 200 meters.
我清楚地记得，这一晚上我一共换了13个氧气罐。
I remember quite clearly that I changed 13 oxygen tanks this evening.
旋转移动这些大家伙，我简直要怀疑人生，想想后面的上班都让人犯愁。
Spin and move these big guys, I almost suspect life, think back to work is a worry.
病房没有电梯，6位医护人员抬着病人通过狭窄楼道从三楼到一楼，准备送上救护车。
There was no elevator in the ward and six paramedics took the patient down the narrow corridor from the third floor to the first floor to deliver the ambulance.
【杨梅：黄冈市中心医院呼吸内科护士】1月24日在二院工作，最挑战我们体力的要数搬运氧气罐。
Yangmei: Nurse of Respiratory Medicine, Huanggang Central Hospital. The most challenging part of our work on January 24th was the removal of oxygen tanks.
因为我们是呼吸专科，安排在我们这一病区的病人的病情都比较危重，不少病人吸氧，还有上高流量呼吸机和无创呼吸机的病人。
Because we are a respiratory specialist, patients in our area are critically ill, with many patients taking oxygen and patients with high flow ventilators and non-invasive breathing machines.
病房里面没有中心供氧，维持病人生命安全的就要依靠一个个笨重的氧气罐。
There is no central oxygen supply in the ward, and patients have to rely on heavy oxygen tanks to maintain their lives.
后勤人员将沉重的氧气罐扛上三楼门口，然后我们护士穿着笨笨的防护服，将这些几十斤重的大家伙一个个搬进病房，再把用完的氧气筒消毒后运到科室门口。
The logisticians carried the heavy oxygen tanks up to the third floor door, and then our nurses, clad in clumsy protective clothing, moved the dozens of huge men into the ward one by one, disinfecting the used oxygen tanks and transporting them to the front door.
吸氧的病人每十几个小时要更换一次氧气罐，而使用呼吸机的病人每三四个小时就要更换一次氧气罐。
Oxygen-suction patients had their tanks replaced every ten hours, while ventilators were replaced every three to four hours.
每天，病房的外走廊上充斥着我们搬运氧气罐的声音。
Every day, the outer hallways of the wards were filled with the sound of our oxygen tanks.
更换一个氧气罐我们都要将防护服里面的衣服汗透一遍。
To replace an oxygen tank, we have to sweat the clothes inside the suit.
科室的小姐妹说，平时大家都是开矿泉水瓶盖都要找人帮忙的小仙女，现在一个个都变成了拿扳手换氧表、搬动氧气罐的女汉子了！护士用巨大的扳手换氧表1月24 这是个不一样的除夕。
The little sisters in the departments said that the fairies who usually opened the water bottles were looking for help, and now they were all wrenches and oxygenators! The nurse used a huge wrench to change oxygen.
没有鞭炮声，没有相互问候，没有肆意欢笑。
No firecrackers, no greetings, no wild laughter.
很多人被隔离，很多人在坚守，很多人在盼望。
A lot of people are isolated, a lot of people are holding on, a lot of people are looking forward.
作为中国人重中之重的节日，今天，我们却在关注新冠肺炎的动态，各种物资需要支援的请求，社会各个力量的努力。
Today, we are concerned about the dynamics of the new crown pneumonia, the demand for support for all kinds of materials, and the efforts of all social forces.
春节晚会上临时新添节目——《爱是桥梁》，句句都说到了我们每一个中国人的心里，无数人为之泪目。
At the Spring Festival Gala, a temporary addition to the program - "Love is a bridge," every sentence said to each of us in the Chinese heart, countless people tears.
作为一名护士，我的眼眶早已不知被泪水湿润了多少遍。
As a nurse, I didn't know how many times tears had moistened my eyes.
想想我们这大半个月以来，从一开始的一无所知无所畏惧，到后来的严格防控胆战心惊……我们并不比普通的人强悍，只不过我们更知道自己身上白大褂的重量罢了。
Think of the fear of knowing nothing for the better part of the month, and of the stringent controls that followed... we were no stronger than ordinary people, only we knew more about the weight of our white coats.
疫情仍然在继续，我们这些逆行者依然会迎难而上！晚上和爸妈、妹妹通视频，本来是打算今年去合肥陪他们一起过年的，又一次食言了。
The epidemic continues, we will continue to rebel against the attack! Evening with my parents, my sister video, was intended to accompany them to Hefei New Year, once again reneged on the promise.
因为爸爸也是一名医生，所以他们对我的工作更多的是理解与支持，但是我对于家人，只有抱歉与歉疚。
Because my father is also a doctor, so they are more understanding of my work and support, but to my family, only apologies and apologies.
特殊的除夕，我们都过得特别的不一样。
On special New Year's Eve, we all lead very different lives.
但我觉得，我们的心中都充满着爱，身上充满着力量，那些不远千里给我们支援的同行者们，给我们提供保障的后方的人们，还有无数支持配合我们工作的亲们，大家都是最可爱的人！新的一年，向所有不能亲自送出祝福的人儿们道一声：新年快乐！给你们拜年了！【徐志礼：麻城市人民医院呼吸内科副主任】1月24日除夕我值夜班，黄州城区显得有些平静，惠民医院的医护办公室却忙得热火朝天。
But I feel that our hearts are full of love, full of strength, those who support us thousands of miles, the people behind us to provide security, and countless people who support us in our work, we are the loveliest! Happy New Year!
对讲呼叫与电话铃声此起彼伏，专用手机专用微信群上病人救治信息不断更新：哪一床血糖高了、血压不稳定了、监测血氧下降了……我和其他医生都会及时跟进处理。
Callers and ringtones come and go, patients on special cell phone groups keep up-to-date information: which bed of blood sugar is high, blood pressure is unstable, blood oxygen monitoring has declined... I and other doctors will follow up.
每一组医生查房、处理医嘱、病历资料分工明确，大家协同作战。
Each group of doctors to check room, deal with medical advice, clear division of medical records, everyone's cooperation.
只要穿上防护服，戴上口罩、眼罩，全副武装，穿梭在三层楼的病区，感觉就像在与病毒交战，一方面查看资料精准施治，及时调整用药方案，为部分危重病人做好救治准备；另一方面对情绪波动的患者加强心理疏导，交待后期观察注意事项。
Wear protective clothing, mask, eye mask, armed, shuttle in the three-storey sick area, feel like a war with the virus, on the one hand, to check the accurate treatment, timely adjustment of the medication plan, for some critically ill patients, on the other hand, to strengthen emotional counseling, to pay attention to later observation.
患者与我们医护人员也沟通良好，当得知我们从麻城赶来支援，还不时给我们一些问候与祝福。
The patient also communicated well with our medical staff, and when he learned that we had come from Massachusetts to help us, he gave us greetings and good wishes from time to time.
晚上，医院领导还带队看望、慰问了我们，给我们一线医务人员莫大鼓励和信心。
In the evening, the hospital leadership also led the team to visit and sympathize with us, to our frontline medical staff great encouragement and confidence.
【孙璐：黄冈市黄州区四海社区网格员】1月24日从1月20日左右，我看新闻就听说武汉的疫情很严重，每天有新增多少确诊病例，社区也是通过官方新闻了解每天疫情情况。
Sun Lu: Huanggang District Huangzhou District Community Grid January 24 around January 20, I read the news that Wuhan is very serious, the number of new confirmed cases every day, the community is also through the official news of the daily outbreak of the situation.
但是那个时候还不知道黄冈很严重，一直到今天也就是大年三十，看到新闻推送“黄冈封城”才知道黄冈也很严重。
But at that time did not know Huanggang is very serious, until today is the New Year's 30, see the news push "Huanggang closed city" just know Huanggang is also very serious.
今天晚上，我接到社区书记的通知，要求我们全体人员包括网格员，明天必须全部上班。
This evening, I was informed by the community secretary that all of us, including the grid man, must be at work tomorrow.
在放假之前我们原本安排了每天有人值班的。
We were supposed to have someone on duty every day before the holiday.
看来疫情比我想象的更严重。
It seems that the epidemic is more serious than I thought.
通知说，明天大年初一上班后，社区书记会给大家分配任务，大致两名社区工作人员与一个网格员搭配。
The notice said that after the first day of New Year's Day, the community secretary will assign tasks to you, about two community workers with a grid staff.
第一项工作是进行电话排查，查出社区有多少人从武汉回来，还有多少人与武汉返回人员有密切接触。
The first was a telephone survey to find out how many people from the community had returned from Wuhan and how many had close contact with Wuhan returnees.
同时，要将这个疫情严峻性通知到每家每户，未接电话的要上门通知。
At the same time, to notify the severity of the epidemic to every household, not answered to the door to notify.
【金昊：已愈新冠肺炎患者】1月24日大年三十，轻微干咳。
Jin Hao: Grown-up pneumonia sufferer January 24 about 30, mild dry cough.
黄冈封城的消息接踵而来。
The news of the Huanggang citywas followed.
我取消了年三十去我妈家和家人一起吃年夜饭的计划。
I canceled my plan of going to my mother's home to have Chinese New Year's Eve dinner with my family.
这是35年来，第一个自己独自过的年三十，感觉有点寂寞和无奈。
This is 35 years, the first to live alone in their thirties, feeling a bit lonely and helpless.
中午的时候，妻子送过来包好的饺子，晚饭下了饺子独自吃了。
At noon, my wife brought the dumplings wrapped up, and after supper she ate them all by herself.
晚上自己一边浏览手机新闻，一边看着春节联欢晚会。
At night, while browsing the mobile phone news, while watching the Spring Festival gala.
【叶薇：已愈新冠肺炎患者，大四学生】1月24日今天依旧是七点起床，早早地来发热门诊排队。
Ye Wei: The new crown pneumonia patients, senior students January 24 is still 7 o'clock to get up, early to the fever clinic queuing.
医院的气氛日益紧张。
The atmosphere in the hospital became increasingly tense.
当天上午做试剂盒检测的医生没告诉我结果出来要多久、要在哪等，只说“要是阳性自然有人通知你”。
The doctor who tested the kit that morning didn't tell me how long it would take to get out and where to wait, saying, "If you're positive, someone will tell you."
于是我提心吊胆回了家。
So I went home terrified.
24日晚饭后，18：50测得体温37.8℃，19：10测得37.4℃，21：25测得38.5℃。
After supper on the 24th, the body temperature was 37.8 degrees Celsius at 18.50, 37.4 degrees at 19.10 and 38.5 degrees at 21.25.
我逐渐紧张起来，但人并没有明显的不舒服，我甚至跟妈妈抱怨家里体温计坏了，叫她明天出门别忘了买两个在家备用。
I became nervous, but there was no apparent discomfort. I even complained to my mother that the thermometer had broken down and told her to go out tomorrow and buy two for use at home.
21：54，我躺在床上测得38.7℃，意识到自己是真的在发烧了。
I was lying in bed measuring 38.7 and realized I was really feverish.
这个时候，正是年三十的晚上。
It was the evening of the thirtieth anniversary.
原本是灯火通明的一晚，我家却已经一声不响地拉上了窗帘，关掉了灯。
It had been a bright night, but my family had pulled the curtains and turned off the light in silence.
我听得见远处传来的鞭炮声，内心真的恐惧起来。
I could hear the distant sound of firecrackers, and I was really frightened.
妈妈睡眠不好，我已经在发烧了，也没有办法，不能叫她，我只能求助在微博上找到的同是麻城人的护士小姐姐。
Mother sleep bad, I already have a fever, can not call her, I can only turn to the micro-blog found by the nurse sister.
护士小姐姐叫我别紧张，可以起来走走，用湿毛巾擦拭下身子，物理降温。
Nurse sister told me to relax, can get up for a walk, wipe the body with a wet towel, physical cooling.
可是一旦我起来弄这些，我妈肯定会醒，会紧张。
But once I get up and do this, my mom will wake up and get nervous.
我虽然很害怕，却还是决定就这样躺在床上，我只希望体温快点降下来，就这样模模糊糊进入了梦乡。
Although I was scared, I decided to lie in bed like this. I just wanted my temperature to come down quickly and I fell asleep.
23：35，可能是因为体温开始下降，也有可能是外面的鞭炮太过热闹，我再次迷迷糊糊醒来，此时体温38.5℃。
Maybe it was a drop in temperature or maybe the firecrackers were so busy outside that I woke up again in a daze with a temperature of 38.5 degrees Celsius.
外界的喧哗与我的内心形成强烈的对比，但我还可以很冷静控制我的思绪，知道明早我一定得去医院，定好起床闹钟，我也不想再多想，再次睡去。
The hubbub of the outside world contrasted sharply with my heart, but I could still calm down and control my thoughts, knowing that I would have to go to the hospital tomorrow morning and set the alarm clock.
一个人的战斗，我必须坚强！（文中，叶薇为化名）【未完待续】(本文来自澎湃新闻，更多原创资讯请下载“澎湃新闻”APP)。
A person's battle, I must be strong! (In the text, Ye Wei for alias) Unfinished news, this article from Peng Pai news, more original information please download "Peng Pai News" APP.
【专题】防控新冠肺炎。
Topic: Prevention and control of new crown pneumonia.
责任编辑：储静伟校对：徐亦嘉。
Responsibility Editor: Jing Wei Xu proofread by Xu Yijia.
澎湃新闻报料：4009-20-4009  澎湃新闻，未经授权不得转载。
Pai news: 4009-20-4009 surging news, not allowed to reproduce without authorization.
关键词 >> 抗疫日记 湖北黄冈 抗疫。
Key words & gt; & gt; anti-epidemic diary Huanggang, Huanggang.
收藏。
Collection.
跟踪: 抗疫日记。
Tracking: Anti-epidemic diary.
相关推荐。
Relevant recommendations.
抗疫日记 | 一封不敢邮寄的家书。
A letter from home not daring to send by mail.
抗疫日记丨我们是ECMO的守护者。
The Journal of Disease Control is our guardian.
抗疫日记 | 雷神山的三重门。
The Triple Door at Rai Shenshan.
评论（12）。
Commentary (12).
热新闻。
Hot news.
一天。
One day.
三天。
Three days.
一周。
One week.
外媒：巴西总统博索纳罗的新冠病毒检测呈阳性。
Intermediary: Brazilian President Jose Antonio Bosonaro tested positive for the new crown virus.
加拿大总理特鲁多妻子确诊新冠肺炎，特鲁多无症状将继续隔离。
Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau's wife confirmed pneumonia and Trudeau will remain asymptomatic.
央行3月16日定向降准，释放长期资金5500亿元。
The central bank targeted a cut on March 16, releasing 550 billion yuan in long-term funds.
美国将部分从中国进口医疗产品取消加征关税，含口罩听诊器等。
The United States will partially import medical products from China to abolish tariffs, including stethoscope masks, etc.
国务院新闻办公室发表《2019年美国侵犯人权报告》。
The Information Office of the State Council publishes the 2019 United States Human Rights Violations Report.
巴西总统博索纳罗在个人社交媒体账号称，病毒检测呈阴性。
Brazil's president, Jose Antonio Bossano, said on his personal social media account that the virus was negative.
国家卫健委：昨日新增新冠肺炎确诊病例8例，其中武汉5例。
National Fitness and Health Commission: New cases of pneumonia confirmed yesterday 8 cases, among which Wuhan 5 cases.
西班牙宣布进入紧急状态，累计确诊病例达4209例。
A state of emergency was declared in Spain, with a cumulative total of 4,209 confirmed cases.
外媒：澳大利亚内政部长新冠病毒检测呈阳性。
Intermediary: Australian Interior Minister New Crown Virus tested positive.
上海新增2例境外输入型新冠肺炎确诊病例，为美国意大利输入。
Shanghai added 2 newly diagnosed cases of foreign imported new crown pneumonia, imported by the United States and Italy.
湖北潜江：26号通告取消，继续实行严格交通管制、人员管控。
Hubei buried river: Notice 26 canceled, continue to implement strict traffic control, personnel control.
亲赴抗击疫情主战场，习近平对这几类人说出心里话。
Xi spoke to these categories of people when he went to fight the main battleground of the epidemic.
曾手写遗书，感染新冠病毒的武汉大四女孩毕业前上“生死课”。
Once handwritten will, infected with the new crown virus Wuhan four-year-old girl before graduation "life and death lessons."
美国疾控中心主任：部分死于流感病例可能实患新冠肺炎。
CDC Director: Some deaths from influenza may actually result in new crown pneumonia.
瑞士或全境进入紧急状态。
A state of emergency exists in Switzerland or
中国红十字会组建7人抗疫专家组赴意大利。
Chinese Red Cross has set up 7-member anti-epidemic team to Italy.
外媒：巴西总统博索纳罗的新冠病毒检测呈阳性。
Intermediary: Brazilian President Jose Antonio Bosonaro tested positive for the new crown virus.
湖北：分区分级分类分时有序推进复工复产，继续延迟学校开学。
Hubei: Divisional classification according to time and order to promote the resumption of work, continue to delay the opening of schools.
中国首班抗疫援外专家组包机驰援意大利。
China's first foreign aid group chartered to help Italy.
加拿大总理特鲁多妻子确诊新冠肺炎，特鲁多无症状将继续隔离。
Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau's wife confirmed pneumonia and Trudeau will remain asymptomatic.
习近平总书记关切事｜携手下好一盘棋，京津冀战“疫”进行时。
Xi Jinping, the general secretary, was concerned about the plague when he joined hands to fight it.
这场人民战争统帅心中的三个“第一”。
The three "first" in the minds of the commander of the people's war.
福建泉州酒店坍塌事故已致6人死亡，28人正在搜救。
The Quanzhou Hotel collapse in Fujian Province has killed six people and left 28 in search and rescue.
湖北潜江：26号通告取消，继续实行严格交通管制、人员管控。
Hubei buried river: Notice 26 canceled, continue to implement strict traffic control, personnel control.
亲赴抗击疫情主战场，习近平对这几类人说出心里话。
Xi spoke to these categories of people when he went to fight the main battleground of the epidemic.
曾手写遗书，感染新冠病毒的武汉大四女孩毕业前上“生死课”。
Once handwritten will, infected with the new crown virus Wuhan four-year-old girl before graduation "life and death lessons."
伊朗新增新冠肺炎确诊病例1076例，累计确诊5823例。
There were 1076 newly diagnosed cases of new crown pneumonia in Iran and 5,823 cases were diagnosed cumulatively.
习近平抵武汉考察新冠肺炎疫情防控工作。
Xi arrived in Wuhan to investigate the prevention and control of the disease.
美股熔断！开盘后全线暴跌超7%，三大股指暂停交易15分钟。
U.S. stocks meltdown! After the opening line plummeted by more than 7%, the three main stock indexes suspended trading for 15 minutes.
乘公交致13人感染，研究：新冠在密闭空调车厢可传4.5米。
Public transport infects 13 people, study: The new crown in a closed air-conditioned compartment can be transmitted 4.5 meters.
澎湃新闻APP下载。
Pai news APP download.
热话题。
Hot topics.
一天。
One day.
三天。
Three days.
一周。
One week.
我是渣打中国首席投资策略师王昕杰,多国股市暴跌熔断意味着什么,问我吧!。
I am Wang Xinjie, chief investment strategist at Standard Chartered China. What does a collapse of a multinational stock market mean? Ask me.
我是上海对外经贸大学教授李辉文,关于简单经济学,问吧!。
I am Li Peiwen, professor of Shanghai Foreign Trade University, asking about simple economics.
疫情面前，你家亲戚让你操心了吗？。
Did your relatives worry you about the outbreak?
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
我是国研院欧洲所所长崔洪建,关于疫情下欧洲各国的关系走向,问吧!。
I'm Cui Hongjian, director of the European Institute of Studies and Research.
我是上海对外经贸大学教授李辉文,关于简单经济学,问吧!。
I am Li Peiwen, professor of Shanghai Foreign Trade University, asking about simple economics.
我旅居意大利17年,疫情下当地民众生活什么样,问我吧!。
I've been living in Italy for 17 years. Ask me what life is like for the local population.
我是国研院欧洲所所长崔洪建,关于疫情下欧洲各国的关系走向,问吧!。
I'm Cui Hongjian, director of the European Institute of Studies and Research.
疫情面前，你家亲戚让你操心了吗？。
Did your relatives worry you about the outbreak?
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
我旅居意大利17年,疫情下当地民众生活什么样,问我吧!。
I've been living in Italy for 17 years. Ask me what life is like for the local population.
疫情面前，你家亲戚让你操心了吗？。
Did your relatives worry you about the outbreak?
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
我致力于流行文化及性别研究,什么是耽美亚文化,问吧!。
I'm committed to pop culture and gender studies. What is the addictive subculture? Ask.
我是上海对外经贸大学教授李辉文,关于简单经济学,问吧!。
I am Li Peiwen, professor of Shanghai Foreign Trade University, asking about simple economics.
热门推荐。
Hot recommendations.
湖北新增确诊病例数连续两日保持在个位数，均来自于武汉市。
The number of newly confirmed cases in Hubei province remained in single digits for two consecutive days.
美股三大指数高开超5%，德法英主要股指盘中均涨逾9％。
The top three US indexes were higher than 5 per cent, while German, French and British main indexes were up more than 9 per cent.
央行3月16日定向降准，释放长期资金5500亿元。
The central bank targeted a cut on March 16, releasing 550 billion yuan in long-term funds.
CA936航班乘客、机组人员相关防控措施公布。
CA936 Flight passengers, crew-related control measures announced.
1649人，感谢有你！上海支援湖北医护人员全名单公布。
Thank you, 1649! The full list of medical personnel in Shanghai support Hubei is announced.
var lbdHeight = $(".head_ad").height()+$(".head").height()+$(".main_rt").height()-260; //滑到体到顶部的高度。
var lbdLight = $(& quot; .head _ ad & quot;) .height () + $(& quot; .head & quot;) .height () + $(& quot; .main _ rt & quot;) .light (-260; / / sliding to top height.
var topHeight = parseInt($(window).scrollTop() + 1 + 70);  //浮动频道高度70。
var topLight = parseInt ($(window) .scrollTop (+ 1 + 70); / / floating channel height 70.
联系我们。
Contact us.
关于澎湃。
About the roar.
在澎湃工作。
Working in the roar.
联系我们。
Contact us.
版权声明。
Copyright statement.
隐私政策。
Privacy policy.
澎湃广告。
There was a roaring advertisement.
友情链接。
Links to friends.
澎湃新闻举报受理和处置办法。
Measures for handling and handling surging news reports.
严正声明。
Solemn declaration.
Copyright © 2014~2020 The Paper All rights reserved.上海东方报业有限公司 | 沪ICP证：沪B2-20170116 | 沪ICP备14003370号 | 互联网新闻信息服务许可证：31120170006。
Shanghai Oriental Daily News Ltd. & # 144; Shanghai ICP Certificate: Shanghai B2-20170116 & # 124; Shanghai ICP Readiness 14003370 & # 124; Internet News Information Service license: 31120170006.
沪公网安备 31010602000299号。
Shanghai Public Net 3101 602000299.
站长统计。
Station master statistics.
c={//监测配置。
c = {/ monitoring configuration.
UA:"UA-thepaper-000002", //客户项目编号,由系统生成。
UA: & quot; UA-theaper-000002 & quot;, / or customer project number, generated by the system.
URL:'//file.thepaper.cn/www/v3/js/iwt-min.js'//iwt.js的URL位置，请客户自行托管JS文件，只需修改此值。
URL::: / / file.thepaper.cn / www.v3 / js / iwt-min.js & apos; / / iwt.js URL location; and / or iwt.js, have its client manage a JS file by yourself, simply modify this value.
//多视频。
/ / Multi-Video.
