为回到澳大利亚上学，我花了19天。
It took me 19 days to get back to Australia.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻特约撰稿 王炜桓我叫王炜桓，目前在澳大利亚塔斯马尼亚大学（TAS）读信息技术专业。
Wang Wei-hwan, a special writer for Peng Pai News, is currently studying information technology at the University of Tasmania (TAS).
我们学校2月24日开学，可是我原定返回澳大利亚上学的计划都被突如其来的新型冠状病毒疫情打乱了步伐。
Our school opened on February 24, but my plans to return to Australia were disrupted by a sudden outbreak of the new coronavirus.
疫情初期我还是比较乐观的，只把机票从2月17日提前到2月12日，从杭州直飞回澳大利亚，可是在2月1日这一天，我们留学生的生活发生了翻天覆地的变化。
At the beginning of the epidemic, I was optimistic, only to advance from February 17 to February 12, from Hangzhou directly back to Australia, but February 1, our students life has undergone tremendous changes.
澳大利亚总理莫里森为了应对新冠病毒疫情，紧急颁布了一条旅行禁令：从2月1日起，如果在过去14天内在中国大陆境内待过，就不能入境澳大利亚，除了澳大利亚人、永久居民及其直系亲属以外。
In response to the new Crown Virus outbreak, Australian Prime Minister Morrison issued a travel ban: from 1 February, if he had been in mainland China for the past 14 days, he could not enter Australia, except for Australians, permanent residents and their immediate family members.
2月1日澳大利亚政府颁布紧急旅行禁令2月1日的禁令几乎引爆了澳大利亚留学生的朋友圈，每一个人都半开玩笑地调侃着自己恐怕回不去上学了，甚至还有人调侃现在正在航班上飞往澳大利亚的兄弟们，进入海关时估计要被为难一番了。
The February 1 ban on emergency travel by the Australian government nearly blew up the circle of friends of Australian students, with everyone joking that they might not be able to go back to school, and even joking that their brothers, who were now on a flight to Australia, would face a difficult time getting to customs.
接踵而至的是一系列航班取消的消息，放眼朋友圈，一片哀嚎，包括我在内，大家的航班因为禁令都纷纷取消了。
Then came the news of a series of flight cancellations, friends, howls, and the cancellation of flights, including mine.
谁想到读了20年书，在最后一年就要毕业的时候，居然面临“失学”危机。
Who would like to read 20 years of books, in the final year of graduation, unexpectedly faced the "out of school" crisis.
收到航班取消的通知01一线“生机”对于2月1日的禁令，大家都在猜测，如果在第三国待满14天再飞去澳大利亚，是不是就能入境？没过几天，澳大利亚政府发了一个辅助说明：“能接受去第三国中转14天的留学生入境澳大利亚。
Notice of Flight Cancellation 01 Tier 1 "Vivien" The February 1 ban has led to speculation about entry into Australia after 14 days in a third country, and the Australian Government sent a supporting note a few days later: "Students who can go to a third country for 14 days can enter Australia.
”2月6日午夜12点，我纠结了好久后，终于买了一张第二天晚上飞向曼谷的机票，这时候我连落地签需要什么材料我都不知道，泰国对我来说一切都是未知数。
After much ado about midnight on February 6, I finally bought a plane ticket for Bangkok the next night, and I had no idea what it would take to land and sign.
第二天早上告诉了父母后，很明显感觉他们都有点懵，我只是觉得时间不等人，必须要走。
The next morning told their parents, it is obvious that they feel a little stunned, I just feel that time does not wait for people, must go.
顺便算好了14天的日期，又买了一张曼谷-文莱-墨尔本航班的机票。
By the way, a 14-day flight ticket was purchased for Bangkok-Brunei-Melbourne.
据澳大利亚教育部2019年的数据，中国留学生约占澳大利亚留学生总数的四分之一2月7日，在匆匆忙忙收拾完后，我甚至还做了一套血常规和胸部CT，在确保自己没问题后，父母就开车送我去机场。
Chinese students, who make up about a quarter of all Australian students, made up about a quarter of all Australian students on Feb. 7, according to the Education Department in 2019. I even had a blood routine and a chest CT made sure my parents drove me to the airport after making sure I was all right.
出行前的检查报告晚上8点的萧山机场失去了往日的繁华，冷清得就像一个被遗弃的建筑，只剩稀稀落落的几个人，整个“国际出发”只剩下我要坐的狮航这一个出港航班。
The inspection report before the trip at 8 p.m. Xiaoshan Airport lost its former prosperity, like a deserted building, only a few people, the entire "international departure" only I sat on the Lion Air, a departure flight.
后来听同一个航班的泰国朋友说才知道，这是泰国狮航杭州-曼谷航线的倒数第二趟班航班，我要是稍微犹豫下，可能就去不成泰国了。
Later, a Thai friend on the same flight told me that this was the penultimate flight on the Hangzhou-Bangkok route of Lion Air Thailand. If I had hesitated, I might not have been able to go to Thailand.
雨夜无人的萧山机场抵达曼谷，走出机场已是2月8日凌晨5点了，取了行李，去买电话卡时发现护照不见了。
The airport arrived in Bangkok on a rainy night. It was 5 a.m. on Feb. 8. He picked up his luggage and went to buy a phone card to find his passport missing.
四处找寻无果后我来到了警察局，结果发现护照安然躺在我相机包的暗袋里。
After searching in vain, I went to the police station only to find my passport lying unharmed in the dark bag of my camera bag.
一场虚惊后，终于回到了酒店休息。
After a false alarm, finally returned to the hotel to rest.
到酒店以后，挡不住舟车劳顿的困意，我倒在床上一下子就睡着了。
When I got to the hotel, I couldn't stop the drowsiness and fell asleep on my bed.
2月8日是中国农历新年的元宵节，新年第一抹圆月，驱赶了漫长寒冬的沉闷，但没吃到汤圆。
Feb. 8 is the Chinese Lunar New Year Lantern Festival, the first full moon, driving away the long winter dull, but did not eat dumplings.
在清迈到达曼谷后的第二天，我就离开了曼谷去往清迈，在清迈还有4个一样需要在第三国中转14天的小伙伴在等着我。
The day after Chiang Mai arrived in Bangkok, I left Bangkok for Chiang Mai, where I had four small partners waiting for me who needed to transit through a third country for 14 days.
清迈的天气比曼谷好多了，一点不像曼谷那样稍微一动就浑身湿答答的，而且更开心的是和小伙伴汇合了。
Chiang Mai's weather is much better than Bangkok's, not as wet as Bangkok's, and even happier to be with friends.
大家在清迈玩了10天左右，那里消费很便宜，感觉每天吃吃喝喝，做马杀鸡，一天就过去了，天天都开心的不行。
People played in Chiang Mai for about 10 days, where the consumption is very cheap, feel every day to eat, drink, do horseshoe, a day went by, every day happy is not good.
自从2018年做了一年动画，2019年跨专业学了IT后，难得有这样的假期让我那么放松地休息了。
Since 2018 to do a year animation, 2019 after a multidisciplinary IT, rarely such a holiday let me so relaxed rest.
然而，关于澳大利亚的消息时好时坏，身边的亲朋好友不时发消息问侯情况怎么样。
However, news about Australia has been mixed, with close friends and relatives constantly asking how things are.
网上还传出不能给澳大利亚移民局打电话咨询，会导致学生签证被取消的传言。
There were also rumours that the inability to call the Australian Immigration Service could lead to the cancellation of a student visa.
那段时间感觉在第三国等待回澳大利亚的留学生都草木皆兵，容易受惊。
Foreign students who felt they were waiting to return to Australia in a third country were easily frightened.
网上各种假假真真的消息让我时而觉得有机会回澳大利亚，时而又担心我的签证会被取消，真是吓得不行。
The fact that I sometimes feel like I have a chance to go back to Australia, and that my visa will be cancelled, is really frightening.
02午夜“霹雳”小伙伴们买的都是泰国直飞墨尔本的航班，而我买的航班是2月22日的文莱航空，从曼谷起飞，在文莱转机再飞墨尔本。
02 Midnight "Perak" small partners are not buying flights to Melbourne, Thailand, and I bought the flight is February 22 Brunei Airlines, from Bangkok, transit in Brunei re-flight Melbourne.
我准备21日从清迈回曼谷。
I'm going back to Bangkok from Chiang Mai on the 21st.
在回曼谷的前一个晚上，我朋友发了一个截图，说文莱航空因为疫情的影响，限制浙江人和江苏人登机了，而且限制得特别彻底——转机都不行的那种。
The night before we returned to Bangkok, my friend sent a screenshot of Brunei Airlines, saying that because of the outbreak, Zhejiang and Jiangsu boarders were restricted to boarding, and that the restrictions were particularly restrictive - the kind that did not work.
那时候已经晚上12点了，航空公司的客服已经下班了，我只能在各个第三国中转的留学生群里寻找信息。
It was 12: 00 p. m. and the airline's customer service was off, so I had to look for information among the international students transiting through various third countries.
这时发现了另一个问题，澳大利亚政府发的文件里说接受在第三国中转14天的留学生入境，那么到达第三国的那天算不算一天？还是从到达那个时间之后开始算？航空公司对文件的不同解读，澳大利亚海关的不同算法，都可能导致签证被取消。
Another problem was discovered when the Australian Government issued a document stating that the date of arrival in a third country counted as one day when a 14-day period of study in a third country was accepted, or did it begin to run after that point? Different interpretations of the documents by airlines and different Australian customs algorithms could result in visa cancellations.
网上主流的有两种说法，一种是N+14，另一种是N+15（N为入境第三国日期）。
There are two kinds of online mainstream, one is N + 14, the other is N + 15 (N is the date of entry into a third country).
以我为例，我是2月8日入境泰国的，22日离境就是N+14天，而且泰国落地签也只有14天，所以22日是签证有效期的最后一天。
For example, I entered Thailand on February 8, leaving on February 22 for N + 14 days, and Thailand landed only 14 days, so the 22nd is the last day for a visa.
但是N+14会被很多航空公司拒绝登机，N+15才被允许登机。
But N + 14 will be refused boarding by many airlines and N + 15 will be allowed on board.
但是我如果按照N+15在2月23日离境，泰国落地签就会超期。
But if I leave on February 23 according to N + 15, Thailand will be out of time.
在各种纠结中，我在泰国第一次失眠。
I had my first insomnia in Thailand in all sorts of tangles.
可能只睡了3个小时就醒了过来，首先给文莱航空打了一个电话，工作人员告诉我，浙江人肯定不能坐飞机，不过她建议观望一下，毕竟政策每天都在变化。
Maybe I woke up after only 3 hours of sleep. First, I called Brunei Airlines. The staff told me that Zhejiang people can't fly, but she suggested watching.
我并不觉得第二天就会对浙江人解禁，所以当场买了23日的航班。
I did not think the next day to Zhejiang people will be released, so I bought the 23-day flight.
这张23日酷航从曼谷-新加坡-墨尔本的机票拯救了我，但也是我后面一列艰难行程的开始。
This 23-day Cool's flight from Bangkok to Singapore-Melbourne saved me, but it was the beginning of a difficult flight behind me.
03坎坷归途到达泰国廊曼国际机场的时候，离值机的时间还早。
03 bumpy return to Thailand's Don Muang International Airport, before the check-in time.
给我办理值机的工作人员拿着我的护照算了一会，然后问我喜欢靠窗还是靠走廊，然后就把登机牌打印出来给我，“您在境外已经15天了，根据规定已经可以回澳大利亚了”。
The man who attended the check-in took my passport for a moment, then asked me if I would prefer a window or an aisle, and then printed out the boarding pass to me. "You have been abroad for 15 days and are ready to return to Australia as required."
心里的大石头终于落下。
The big rock in my heart finally fell.
出海关的时候，那个官员看着我的护照，默默给我指了后面的一个柜台。
As I was leaving customs, the officer looked at my passport and silently pointed me at the counter behind me.
啪，一个章下去，在泰国逾期24小时以内，警察也没罚款，就放我走了，离回澳大利亚越来越近了！泰国海关盖的超期但是放行章我是下午4点起飞的航班，在候机厅迷迷糊糊不小心睡着了。
The police let me go and got closer and closer to Australia within 24 hours of Thailand's 24-hour overdue deadline! Thai Customs Excess but Release Seal I was on the 4: 00 pm flight and fell asleep in the terminal.
醒来的时候已经4点10分，然后听到机场广播，航班延误了。
I woke up at 4: 10 and heard the airport broadcast and the flight was delayed.
又过了一会，广播里说换登机口了，航班延误到6点。
After a while, the radio said that the boarding gate had been changed and the flight was delayed until 6 o'clock.
我换了登机口，可是随着时间一点点接近6点，大家都排成一条长队，突然前面有个印度哥们儿走了出来，嚷嚷道：“航班取消了”。
I changed the boarding gate, but as the hour neared 6 p. m. everyone lined up and suddenly an Indian buddy came out and shouted, "The flight is canceled."
等了一下午就是这个结果么？这时有几个也是去澳大利亚的中国留学生过来搭话，大家基本都是去墨尔本和悉尼的，现在飞新加坡的航班取消了，大家把护照放在一起，准备抱团一起走。
After waiting all afternoon for this result, some Chinese students who were also going to Australia came to talk to each other, mostly to Melbourne and Sydney. Now the flight to Singapore has been canceled. People put their passports together and are ready to go together.
航空公司给了我们4个选择，前3个选择都是在素万那普机场，8点就有航班去新加坡。
The airlines gave us four choices, the first three at Suvarnabhumi and a flight to Singapore at 8: 00.
最后一个选择是留在廊曼机场，不过晚上11点才有航班飞新加坡。
The last option was to stay at Don Muang airport, but there was no flight to Singapore until 11 p.m.
航空公司给出的几种解决方案我们几个在新加坡转飞墨尔本、悉尼的航班时间分别是凌晨0:40和2:00，如果我们留在廊曼机场就赶不上下一趟航班了。
Some of our flights to Melbourne and Sydney take place at 0: 40 a.m. and 2: 00 a.m. respectively. If we stay at Don Mann Airport, we won't be able to catch the next flight.
只有搭晚上8点从素万那普机场飞新加坡的航班我们才刚好能赶上下一趟航班。
We were just in time for our next flight to Singapore at 8pm from Suvarnabhumi airport.
但我们需要重新再进海关，拿上行李，然后坐航空公司的车从曼谷北边的廊曼机场到东边素万那普机场，这时候已经晚上6点半了，到素万那普至少一个小时吧。
But we need to re-enter customs, pick up our bags, and then take the airline bus from Namman Airport, north of Bangkok, to Suvarnabhumi Airport, east, by 6: 30 p.m., at least an hour in Suvarnabhumi.
出海关的队伍排得很长，随着队伍慢慢推进，我们前面有两个中国学生被海关拦下来了。
There was a long queue at customs, and as the line slowly advanced, two Chinese students in front of us were stopped by the customs.
我们过去一问，那两个中国学生因为超期滞留，被泰国海关拒绝入境。
We asked the two Chinese students that they had been refused entry by Thai customs because of their extended stay.
我们这群人和那两个中国学生一样，没法再进海关，就没法坐车去素万那普机场，赶上唯一那班能接上后续行程的航班。
Like the two Chinese students, we couldn't get into customs and drive to Suvarnabhumi Airport on the only flight that could take a follow-up trip.
于是我们只好又回到登机口，等着廊曼机场晚上11点的那趟航班，那时候大家都饥肠辘辘，而且肯定会错过回墨尔本和悉尼的航班，情绪都不高，但都挺淡定的。
So we had to go back to the gate and wait for the 11: 00 pm flight at the airport, when everyone was hungry and was sure to miss flights back to Melbourne and Sydney.
然而，坏消息还没完。
But the bad news is not over.
因为我们不能在新加坡入境，只能全程是酷航的航班才能把我们带回澳大利亚。
Because we couldn't get in Singapore, we had to fly cool all the way back to Australia.
但是，酷航去墨尔本和悉尼最早有空位的航班分别是2月25日和26日，我们离开曼谷那一天才23日。
The first available flights to Melbourne and Sydney, however, were on Feb. 25 and Feb. 26, the day we left Bangkok.
在候机大厅等待就这样，我们一行人抱着未知、疲倦和未熄灭的憧憬坐上晚上11点起飞的航班，飞向新加坡樟宜机场。
Waiting in the departure lounge, our party flew to Singapore's Changi Airport on a 11 p.m. flight with unknown, tired and unextinguished expectations.
04峰回路转到新加坡的时候已经凌晨2点40了，大家拖着疲倦的身体走下飞机，机场几乎没有人。
It was 2: 40 a. m., when the journey back to Singapore, people pulled themselves out of the plane. There was hardly anyone at the airport.
不过在经历了一连串的波折后，终于有了好消息，航空公司同意我们转新航的航班回澳大利亚！我们这一群被困在新加坡机场的留学生像中学生春游一样浩浩荡荡地向另一个航站楼出发，去那里取登机牌。
But after a series of twists and turns, the airline agreed to take us back to Australia.Our group of students stranded at the Singapore airport set off like a spring trip to another terminal building to pick up boarding passes.
等取完登机牌，已经凌晨4点半了。
It's 4: 30 in the morning when you get your boarding pass.
小伙伴中有的人在一起聊天，有的已经睡在了沙发上，还有的玩着手机。
Some of the friends were chatting together, some were already sleeping on the sofa, and others were playing with their cell phones.
我已经饿得不行了，只想找个餐厅吃口饭。
I'm so hungry I just want a bite to eat in a restaurant.
去悉尼的小伙伴的飞机比较早，差不多6点就要去登机口了，大家道别后，我目送他们离开。
The flight to Sydney was early. It was almost six o'clock before the departure gate. After everyone said good-bye, I watched them go.
经历不确定的12小时后，是不是大家的生活也一步步走回正轨了？接下来是我们去墨尔本的人要值机了，这一路上明显感觉到人流多起来了，早上7点的新加坡机场开始热闹起来，在这中转的人络绎不绝，熙熙攘攘，不过没多少戴口罩的人，好像大家都没有被影响。
After a 12-hour period of uncertainty, is everyone's life back on track? Next is our trip to Melbourne to check in, obviously feeling a rush of people, at 7: 00 am Singapore airport began to bustle, there are people in transit, but few wearing masks, as if no one has been affected.
终于登上了回澳大利亚的航班当工作人员和我说“welcome aboard”（欢迎登机）的时候，我不知道有多兴奋，已经是倒数第二关了！折腾一晚上实在太累了，8个小时的飞行我睡到最后2小时才醒。
When the flight back to Australia finally arrived and I said "welcome aboard," I didn't know how excited I was. It was the penultimate hurdle! I was so tired all night that I slept until the last two hours of my eight-hour flight.
到达墨尔本的时候已经是下午4点多，离出发差不多已经花了1天多的时间。
By the time we arrived in Melbourne it was well over 4: 00 pm, almost a day before the departure.
最后一关是过海关的时候，那个海关小哥拿着我的护照检查我的日期，然后和我闲聊在泰国的旅程，他觉得留学生真的太幸苦了，这么大费周章才能回到澳大利亚。
The last hurdle was going through customs when the young customs officer took my passport to check my date and then chatted with me about his trip to Thailand. He thought the overseas student was lucky enough to go back to Australia.
他还问：“今天你就回霍巴特（编注：澳大利亚塔斯马尼亚州首府）么？”“不行，我太累了，今天我只想睡觉，明天再回霍巴特”。
He also asked, "Are you going back to Hobart today?" "No, I'm too tired. I just want to sleep today and go back to Hobart tomorrow."
澳大利亚海关排队入关的人群从2月7日到2月25日，我花了19天才终于回到了塔斯马尼亚这个世界尽头的小岛上——再往南就是南极了。
It took me 19 days from February 7 to February 25 to get back to Tasmania, an island at the end of the world - and the South Pole.
最后的话故事到这差不多就已经结束了，但是我还是想补充几点：1、我回到霍巴特的第二天，学校就给我发邮件打电话，学校工作人员在电话里十分关心我们在第三国中转14天的学生的心理状态，毕竟刚回澳大利亚，可能会受到歧视，叫我们遇到这方面的问题就和他们沟通，并希望我回到TAS之后生活能回归正常，不要有心理负担。
On my second day back in Hobart, the school sent me a phone call. School staff on the phone were very concerned about the psychological state of our 14-day students in a third country. After all, we might be discriminated against upon returning to Australia.
2、汽车广播里的主持人一直在呼吁当地人去中餐厅吃饭，因为这次疫情让很多中餐厅生意惨淡，甚至关门，呼吁他们去帮助中国的朋友们。
DJ on the car radio has been calling on the locals to go to Chinese restaurants because the outbreak has left many Chinese restaurants with poor business or even closed, calling on them to help their friends in China.
3、塔斯马尼亚大学是给学生发补助比较早的学校，给去第三国中转的学生补助1500澳元（约6900元人民币）的旅行补贴，给被困在国内的学生补助500澳元的网费补贴，并且安排了很多线上讲座和网络教程，老师也特别关心困在中国的学生的情况，甚至还建了微信群来帮助学生解答问题。
3. The University of Tasmania is an early student support school, subsidizing travel grants of $1,500 (about Rmb6,900) to students in transit to third countries, subsidizing the A $500 cost of Internet access for students stranded in China, and arranging numerous online lectures and tutorials where teachers pay special attention to students stranded in China and even set up micro-groups to help students answer questions.
这一次的行程就是一路被各国政策压着跑，在各个政策的夹缝中生存。
This trip is all the way to be crushed by the policies of various countries, in the gap between the survival of policies.
每个国家都对这次疫情做出了各种预防措施和行动，并且政策一直在变，大家都承担着各种变化的可能性，第三国并不是100%就能成功的道路。
Every country has taken preventive measures and actions against the epidemic, and policies have been changing, with all bearing the potential for change, and third countries are not the path to success for 100 per cent of the population.
但至少我是幸运的。
But at least I'm lucky.
更多国际新闻，扫描二维码关注“国际湃”↓↓本期编辑常琛推荐阅读。
More international news, scan the two-dimensional code to pay attention to "international Pai," the editor of this issue Chang Chen recommended reading.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
为回到澳大利亚上学，我花了19天。
It took me 19 days to get back to Australia.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "为回到澳大利亚上学，我花了19天";。
var msg _ title = & quot; I spent 19 days and quot;; when I returned to Australia to study.
var msg_desc = "但至少我是幸运的。
var msg _ desc = & quot; but at least I was lucky.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '71岁危重患者想放弃，医生做了个大胆的决定',。
At 71, a critically ill person who wanted to give up, the doctor made a bold decision to service.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '团聚了，但句号没有划上',。
Rendezvous with AT & apos; but not with & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '山东监狱管理局原副局长等被立案侦查并采取强制措施',。
At the time of its service, Shandong Prison Administration's former deputy director was investigated and took coercive measures against it.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
