连载·黄冈日记⑥｜大年初一被确诊，我住进了爸爸隔壁病房_直击现场_澎湃新闻-The Paper。
On the first day of the Lunar New Year's Day, I was admitted to my father's next door ward, where _ the paper was on the scene.
报料。
News feed.
注册。
Registration.
登录。
Login.
下载APP。
Download APP.
精选。
Selected.
抗疫。
Anti-epidemic.
抗疫防控新型冠状病毒肺炎。
Anti-epidemic control of new coronavirus pneumonia.
。
.
视频。
Video.
上直播。
Live broadcast.
拉近你与现场距离。
Bring you closer to the scene.
七环视频。
Seven-ring video.
为了更美好的生活。
For a better life.
温度计。
Thermometers.
深度记录社会冷暖。
Depth of record society warm and cold.
一级视场。
Level 1 field of view.
及时现场，洞察财经事件。
On-site, insight into financial issues.
World湃。
World surging.
看见新闻全球化。
See the globalization of information.
湃客科技。
Pai guest technology.
聚焦前沿，展现新兴企业。
Focus on the frontier and showcase emerging businesses.
纪录湃。
The record runs high.
纪录澎湃中国。
China is on record.
围观。
Look around.
以影像介入社会生活。
Imaging into social life.
@所有人。
@ All.
所有人在看。
Everyone's watching.
大都会。
Metropolis.
看上海 最都会。
It's the best city in Shanghai.
追光灯。
Searchlight.
让你看到文艺生活。
Let you see the literary life.
运动装。
Sportswear.
直观运动，可以装不要伪装。
Intuitive movement, can be installed without camouflage.
健寻记。
Health care.
追寻活到一百岁的秘诀。
The secret to living to be a hundred years old.
AI播报。
AI announces.
互联网新闻+：AI播报。
Internet news +: AI broadcasts.
眼界。
Eye-catching.
每日一条视频，与新闻同步。
One video per day, synced with the news.
时事。
Current affairs.
中国政库洞悉中国动向的时政解读。
China's treasurer has insight into the current state of affairs in China.
中南海权威细致的领导人报道。
Zhongnanhai authority meticulous leader report.
舆论场倾听复杂世界的弦外之音。
Opinion circles listen to the implications of the complex world.
打虎记中国反腐报道第一平台。
Tiger Kit China Anti-Corruption Report First Platform.
人事风向快速专业的人事信息集合地。
Personnel wind speed and professional collection of personnel information.
法治中国司改风向，法治观察。
Rule of Law China Division wind direction, rule of law observation.
一号专案司法个案，法治调查。
Ad hoc Judicial Case No. 1, Rule of Law Investigations.
港台来信感觉不一样的港台报道。
RTHK's letter feels different from RTHK's report.
长三角政商解读区域政情与财富故事。
The Yangtze River Delta political and economic interpretation of regional political and wealth story.
直击现场第一现场，文图视频直播。
Click on the scene of the first scene, text video live.
公益湃记录公益发展，共建责任生态。
Public welfare record of public welfare development, jointly build ecological responsibility.
。
.
暖闻人间真善美，社会正能量。
Hear the world is good and beautiful, society is positive energy.
。
.
澎湃质量报告打假除劣，破套防坑——专注消费者权益保护。
Pai Pai quality report to fight fraud and shoddy, broken pit - focus on consumer rights and interests protection.
绿政公署环境与公共健康调查。
Environmental and Public Health Survey of the Green Administration.
澎湃国际All News In。
All News In, Peng Pai.
外交学人New World Order。
Diplomat New World Order.
澎湃防务Cyclopedia for military。
Cyclopedia for military defence.
唐人街海外利益，华人故事。
Overseas Interests in Chinatown, Chinese Stories.
澎湃人物提供最有态度的人物报道。
The roaring characters provide the most critical coverage of the characters.
浦江头条上海每天最重要的事件。
The most important events of the day in Shanghai.
教育家最先进的教育理念在此碰撞。
Educators' most advanced educational ideas collide here.
全景现场360度感识全景现场。
Panoramic scene 360-degree panorama scene.
美数课数字是骨骼，设计是灵魂。
Numbers are bones; design is the soul.
快看快看，图片会说话。
Look quick. Pictures talk.
财经。
Finance.
10%公司派发上市公司变革红利。
10 per cent distribute change dividends to listed companies.
能见度能源行业最具穿透力的思想。
Visibility The most penetrating thinking in the energy industry.
地产界地产界所有你想知道的事儿。
Real estate Everything you want to know.
财经上下游跨界找寻市场常识。
Cross-boundary market common sense.
金改实验室金融创新灵感集散地。
Financial innovation center of Jinchang Lab.
牛市点线面简单专业时尚的财富平台。
Bull market simple professional fashion wealth platform.
科技湃让我们走近科学。
Technology has brought us closer to science.
澎湃商学院品牌课外书，生活经济学。
Peng Pai Business School Brand Extracurricular Books, Life Economics.
自贸区连线自贸区第一信息和服务平台。
Free Trade Area line free trade area first information and service platform.
进博会在线走进中国国际进口博览会。
Into the Fair online into China International Import Expo.
澎湃号。
'cried the roar.
湃客。
The roar.
政务。
Government affairs.
媒体。
The media.
思想。
Ideas.
社论澎湃的立场。
The editorial was strong.
澎湃评论在这里知道更多。
Pai Pai comments know more here.
思想湃明亮的对话，澎湃的思想。
Thoughts of bright dialogue, surging thoughts.
上海书评全球百位华文写作名家撰稿。
The Shanghai Book Review is written by 100 leading Chinese writers.
思想市场有竞争的思想讲底蕴的政治。
The thought market has the competitive thought to speak the underlying politics.
私家历史发现历史之美。
Private history finds the beauty of history.
翻书党微时代的首选书单。
Turn over the book party microage first choice book list.
艺术评论独立态度解析中外艺术热点。
Artistic Comment Independent Attitude Analyzes the Hot Spots of Chinese and Foreign Art.
古代艺术巡礼人类的艺术遗产。
Ancient Art Parades the artistic heritage of mankind.
文化课关注人文景观投身人类文明。
Cultural courses focus on humanistic landscape into human civilization.
逝者记录逝者为世界留下的财富。
The dead record the wealth left to the world by the dead.
澎湃研究所为中国城市问题提供澎湃方案。
The Peng Pai Institute offers a robust programme on urban issues in China.
。
.
市政厅中国城市问题专家。
City Hall of China experts on urban issues.
城市漫步人塑造地方，地方也塑造人。
Urban strollers shape places, and places shape people.
智库报告展示全球最具价值的智库研究成果。
The think tank report showcases the world's most valuable think tank research.
专栏名家专家，上天入地。
An expert columnist.
异次元打破次元壁。
Heterogeneous element breaks the secondary wall.
生活。
Life.
有戏陪你过一种审美的生活。
Have a play to accompany you to live an aesthetic life.
文艺范一线文艺生活。
Literary and artistic life.
身体探索身体的奥秘。
The body explores the secrets of the body.
私·奔跑步是一种态度。
Personal running is an attitude.
运动家看体育如何改变世界。
Athletes see how sport can change the world.
私家地理旅途的旨趣、技艺以及乡愁。
The Purport, Skill, and Nostalgia of the Private Geographic Journey.
非常品用态度引领时尚。
A very good attitude leads to fashion.
楼市不一样的楼市观察。
Different property market observation.
生活方式更好生活，我们有一些意见。
We have some suggestions for a better way of life.
澎湃联播半个段子兽半个评论猿。
Half a section of the beast commented on apes.
视界视界观，观世界。
Look at the world, look at the world.
亲子学堂理解孩子，认知自己。
Parents and children learn to understand their children, know themselves.
赢家直击中国体育产业生存现状。
Winners strike at the survival of China's sports industry.
汽车圈专注汽车产经报道。
Auto industry focus on the auto industry report.
问吧。
'he asked.
订阅。
Subscriptions.
把你最喜欢的栏目添加到这里来哦。
Add your favorite column here.
马上登录。
Sign in now.
setMsgMark(); //login异步之后调用位置修改。
Call location modification after setMsgMark; / / login asynchronous.
// 顶部广告自适应。
/ / Top Advertising Adaptability.
// xml返回了creativeHeight。
/ / xml returned creativeLight.
//图片拓展图片时。
/ / Photo when expanding the picture.
if(typeof(xml.find("Cexpansion")[0])!="undefined"){   //是否需要展开。
If (typeof (xml. find; Cempansion & quot;) & # 91; 0 & # 93;)! = & quot; underdefined & quot;) {/ / whether it needs to be carried out.
var cexpansion = xml.find("Cexpansion")[0].textContent.trim();//展开时。
var text = xml. find (& quot; Cempansion & quot;) & # 91; 0 & # 93; .text Content.
//图片拓展视频时   。
/ / Photo when expanding the video.
//视频拓展视频时。
/ / Video when expanding the video.
//收起广告。
/ / Put the ad away.
//将 http://或者https:// 转为//。
/ / Conversion from http: / / https: / / to /.
首页。
Home page.
> 直击现场。
Running straight to the scene.
连载·黄冈日记⑥｜大年初一被确诊，我住进了爸爸隔壁病房。
LianZai Huang Gang Diary: On the first day of the Lunar New Year, I was admitted to my father's room next door.
特邀作者 叶薇 杨梅 金昊 龙振江 马亿 澎湃新闻记者 方岸 杜心羽 吴佳颖 实习生 李佳悦 整理。
Invited author Ye Yang Mei Jin Hao Longzhenjiang Ma million surging journalists Fang Xin Yu Wu Jia Ying intern Li Jia Yue tidy.
2020-03-11 07:27 来源：澎湃新闻。
2020-03-11 07: 27 Source: surging news.
字号。
The font size.
超大。
Extremely large.
大。
Big.
标准。
Standards.
小。
Small.
【编者按】新冠病毒给湖北乃至全国带来一场危机，黄冈是这场疫情的重灾区之一。
The new crown virus brings a crisis to Hubei and even to the whole country. Huanggang is one of the hardest hit areas of the epidemic.
在这场战役中，黄冈人经历了旁观-卷入-创伤-斗争-反思的过程。
In this battle, the Huanggang people experienced the process of watching-involved-traumatizing-fighting-introspection.
我们用亲历者日记连载的形式，试图纵深还原疫情侵袭下的黄冈这60天。
We tried to restore Huanggang to 60 days under the attack of the epidemic in the form of a diary series of relatives.
【杨梅：黄冈中心医院呼吸内科护士】1月25日新春第一天，一大早来到二医院上班。
Yangmei: Nurse of Respiratory Medicine, Huanggang Central Hospital, January 25, the first day of the new spring, early morning to work in the Second Hospital.
二院的条件很简陋，刚开始两天，因为没有呼叫铃，也没有配电话，病人与医务人员隔着两道门，他们的打针、换药、生活需求只能靠我们反复多次巡视病房进行沟通了解。
The conditions in the second hospital were very basic, and since there was no call or telephone for the first two days, the patients were separated from the medical staff by two doors, and their injections, changes of medicines and living requirements could only be understood through our repeated visits to the wards.
现在，护士之间沟通有对讲机，护士站配置了一台电话，比前两天倒是方便了一点，但是对于危重病人、生活不能自理的病人，我们还是反复多次地巡视病房。
There are walkie-talkies for nurses and a telephone for nurses, which is a little more convenient than the previous two days, but for patients who are critically ill and cannot look after themselves, we visit the wards many times.
经过了两天的调整，医院各病区安排设定已入正轨。
After two days of adjustment, the hospital arrangements for the various disease areas have been put on track.
紧急开启的三个病区，共60张床位，一开张就收满了病人。
Three emergency areas, with 60 beds, were opened and filled with patients as soon as they opened.
医院有明确的 “病人通道”和“医务人员通道”，我们的工作区“清洁区”、“潜在污染区”及病人区域“污染区”。
The hospital has clear "patient access" and "medical access." Our work areas are "clean areas," "potential contaminated areas," and "contaminated areas" in patient areas.
沿着医务人员通道，来到了我所工作的呼吸内科3病区。
I walked down the paramedic aisle to the Respiratory Medicine Division 3 where I worked.
黄冈市中心医院呼吸内科医护人员在二院3病区走廊合影。
Respiratory medical staff of Huanggang Central Hospital took a group photo in the hallway of No.3 Hospital.
【叶薇：已愈新冠肺炎患者，大四学生】1月25日大年初一，七点闹钟准时响起，我便再也按捺不住喊妈妈起床。
Ye Wei: The new crown pneumonia patients, senior students January 25, the New Year's Day, seven o'clock alarm clock on the clock, I can no longer restrain to call mother up.
妈妈说：“今天又不拜年没有事，干嘛不多睡睡。
Mother said: "It's OK not to pay a New Year call today, why not sleep more.
”我尽量平静地告诉她我昨晚发烧了，得去医院，她不知道早上六点多我的体温还有38℃，八点的时候才降到37.1℃。
I tried to tell her calmly that I had a fever last night and had to go to the hospital.
又是一天，带上已经收好的所有用品，我们去了医院。
It was another day. We took all the things we had already packed and we went to the hospital.
大年初一的温度没有前几天高，还下着小雨，刮着冷风，可是即使这样又怎样，该看的病总得看。
On New Year's Day, the temperature is not as high as a few days ago, there is a light rain, blowing cold wind, but even so, should see the disease always look.
这次妈妈没有再陪我进发热门诊，而是选择在室外站着等我，事实上，昨晚从医院回来后我们俩就已经非常注意彼此间的距离，不会近距离摘下口罩。
This time, instead of accompanying me to the fever clinic, my mother chose to stand outside and wait for me. In fact, since we got back from the hospital last night, we had been very careful not to take off our masks at close range.
一大早的医院紫外线灯还在勤恳地工作，但是早来的病人没人顾得上这些，都在里面排队，等待医生上班。
Early in the morning the hospital UV lights were working hard, but the early patients did not pay attention to these, all lined up inside, waiting for the doctor to go to work.
我前面一个中年大叔也是来问昨天试剂盒的结果，刚上班的医生也并不清楚情况，打电话去询问，收到的答复是：所有试剂盒检测呈阳性的患者昨晚九点前都已经电话通知，没有收到电话的患者就是阴性。
A middle-aged uncle in front of me also came to ask about the results of yesterday's kit, and the doctor who had just arrived was not aware of the situation. He called to inquire and was told that all patients who tested positive for the kit had called by 9: 00 last night and those who had not received a call were negative.
听到这个结果我长松一口气，想着自己终于不是新冠肺炎。
I heaved a sigh of relief at the result, thinking that I was not the new Crown Pneumonia.
因为昨晚发烧，医生还是让我再次做了血常规并且开了口服药。
Because of the fever last night, the doctor told me to have a blood test again and to take the medicine orally.
把结果告诉妈妈后，我俩表面没表现出什么，但是妈妈还没出医院就给爸爸打了个电话，告诉他我应该是阴性。
After telling Mom about the results, we didn't seem to show much, but Mom called Dad before she got out of the hospital and told him I was supposed to be negative.
回到家，妈妈就把冰箱里的瘦肉拿出来解冻了，并且催促我把之前收好的东西整理出来放回原处。
When I got home, my mother took out the lean meat from the refrigerator, thawed it out and urged me to unpack it and put it back in place.
正当我玩着手机，想着等等再做，就这么静坐的时候，我收到了一个湖北黄冈的电话。
Just as I was playing with my cell phone, thinking to wait and do it again, I received a phone call from Huanggang, Hubei Province.
我是荆州号，黄冈能找我的人，这几天留过电话的，只有……我已经在心里预见了这个电话可能不会是什么好事，点击接通键，传来一个女声：“是xx吧？”“嗯，是的。
I'm the Jingzhou, and Huanggang can find my people, I left a phone call these days, only... I already foresaw in my mind that the call might not be a good thing.
”“噢，我是市医院感染科的，昨天你做的试剂盒显示的是阳性，你什么时候还是来医院住院吧。
"Oh, I'm from the Infection Department of the City Hospital. The kit you made yesterday shows you to be positive.
”“阳……阳性的吗，可我们今天上午还去了医院，医生不是说阳性的昨晚已经通知完了吗？”“emmm？他是怎么说的？”“我今天早上去医院刚问的检测结果，医生说有问题的人昨晚九点前都已经电话通知了呀。
But we went to the hospital this morning and the doctor said that the positive person had been notified last night? "" EMmm? "" I went to the hospital this morning and the doctor said the person in question had called by 9: 00 last night.
”“噢，是这样的，因为我们在电脑里找你们的联系方式还要花很多时间，没通知完的，你试剂盒显示是阳性，还是要来医院一趟的哈。
"" Well, because it takes a lot of time for us to find your contact information on the computer, and it doesn't take long to finish, and your kit shows up positive, or does it take us a trip to the hospital.
”“嗯，好，我知道了，待会就去。
"Well, well, I see; I'll be there later.
”挂了电话抬头看看妈妈，妈妈的脸色已经变了，眉毛蹙起来，一双眼睛在问我是什么事。
Hanging up the phone and looking up at my mother, her face had changed, her eyebrows had frowned, and her eyes were asking me what was the matter.
没办法，我还是告诉她：“医院说我是阳性的，走吧，去医院。
There was nothing I could do, so I told her, "The hospital says I'm positive. Come on, go to the hospital.
”妈妈也再次问我：“不是说已经是阴性的了吗?”可就是这样吧，命运有时候也很残忍，一个电话来，我就必须要去住院了。
"Again my mother asked me," Didn't I say I was negative? "But that was it, and sometimes fate was cruel.
住院缴费，市医院的这些流程我们已经很清楚了，走出缴费厅后，我们离住院的地方也不远了，妈妈问我：“你怕不怕？”我的声音有点发抖，甚至那一刻这样直接的问题都让我鼻子泛酸，我说：“怕。
After walking out of the toll hall, not far from the hospital, my mother asked me, "Are you not afraid?" My voice trembled a little, and even the immediate question made my nose wobble.
”嘴角止不住的往下瘪，但是戴着口罩应该看不出来，我又很快调整好，可不能冒出眼泪啊。
The corners of my mouth went down uncontrollably, but I should not have seen the mask, and I adjusted quickly enough not to burst into tears.
妈妈说：“不怕哈。
"My mother said," I'm not afraid.
”我说：“嗯。
"I said," Yes.
”就这样我拿着缴费单找着护士，就自己去了住院部。
"So I took the demand note and found the nurse, and went to the inpatient department myself.
麻城市人民医院，管床护士在整理房间。
Bed nurses tidy the room at Massachusetts People's Hospital.
感染科，我终究还是来了。
Infection department, I still came after all.
有发热病人来住院，隔着一层伸缩门，里面的护士首先要确认我们的个人信息，联系方式，和里面的医生沟通好之后再开门，对我们进行称体重，量体温。
There were febrile patients coming to the hospital, across a stretcher door, inside the nurse to first confirm our personal information, contact information, and the inside of the doctor before opening the door, weighing us, temperature.
护士最终把我安排在十一号床，我记得我爸爸的床号也在这附近，不知我会不会看见他。
The nurse finally put me in bed number 11, and I remember my dad's bed number around here, I wonder if I'll see him.
于是我拿着所有的东西，跟着护士小姐姐上了二楼，我们走得很快，但我也在一个一个窗子的看，终于在我房间的隔壁，我看见了爸爸正好坐在床上在和护士说什么，就这一眼，我很快走过，爸爸脸色好像不太好，好像黑了？我在心里这样想着，可就这一眼，我也想哭。
Then I took everything and followed my little sister up the second floor, and we walked very fast, but I looked through one window, and finally next door to my room I saw Dad sitting right in bed talking to the nurse.
忍着。
With patience.
我知道我会在这里待很久，也来不及再伤感。
I know I'll be here a long time, too late to be sad.
进入房间后，趁着护士没离开，询问电灯在哪开，洗手上厕所都是怎么弄，被子好像有点薄，可以帮我再加一床吗？护士走后，我便开始收拾自己的东西，按照妈妈的叮嘱，用酒精擦拭所有我要接触的地方。
Entering the room, I asked the nurse where the lights were, how to wash my hands in the toilet, how to wash my hands and toilet, and if it seemed a little thin, could you add another bed to my bedAfter the nurse left, I began to collect my things and wipe all the places I came in contact with with alcohol, as instructed by my mother.
弄好以后，便给妈妈回了一个视频电话，给她看看我的住处，妈妈再次叮嘱我一些事情。
When it was done, I returned a video call to my mother to show her where I lived. My mother told me something again.
我还偷偷告诉她爸爸在我隔壁，我把手机镜头翻转，“你看我这窗外晒的是不是爸爸的秋衣秋裤？”我尽量表现得洋洋得意，可我又鼻子泛酸，我有多长时间没见着爸爸了？看着走廊里微风吹着的爸爸的秋裤，我感觉仿佛就像爸爸在我旁边一样。
I secretly told her dad was next door, and I turned over my cell phone and said, "Do you see my father's fall pants out of the window?" I tried to be smug, but my nose was sour.
在我住进来大概一个多小时后，有个比我大七岁的小姐姐也住了进来。
About an hour after I came in, a little sister, seven years older than I, came in.
我们在房间里不能出去，有事就按铃。
We can't go out in the room. Ring the bell if we need anything.
住院的前一段时间，日常上午两瓶吊针，医生也针对我们的症状开了好几种药。
The period prior to hospitalization, the usual morning two bottles of needle, the doctor also for our symptoms several drugs.
每天起床洗漱、吃完早饭后就是打针输液。
Wake up and wash every day, after breakfast is injection infusion.
穿着厚厚防护服的护士姐姐，护目镜很容易就被雾气蒙住，有时候只好摸索着给我打针。
My sister, a nurse in a thick suit, was easily blindfolded by fog and sometimes had to grope for an injection.
医生也会来查房。
The doctor will check in, too.
下午病房会通常要进行半个多小时的紫外线消毒。
In the afternoon the ward usually has to undergo ultraviolet disinfection for more than half an hour.
这个时候，我们就会钻进被窝保护眼睛。
At this point, we'll get under the covers to protect our eyes.
晚饭时间有点晚，这里的饭菜送来最多温热吧。
It's a little late for dinner. The food here is the most warm.
这种艰难的时候也没啥好挑剔的，我们也需要尽量多吃饭补充营养。
There is nothing picky about these tough times, and we need to eat as much as we can to replenish our nutrition.
护士姐姐每次把饭送到我们手上，总会叮嘱一句“快点趁热吃哈”，我也会每次回一句“谢谢”。
Nurse sister every time the rice to our hands, always say "quickly eat hot ha", I will also respond to a "thank you."
她们必须等交班之后脱下防护服才能吃饭。
They had to wait until the shift to take off their protective clothing before eating.
谢谢这群伟大的人！在我们身带病毒、生病的时候，只是因为自己是医生，是护士，便义不容辞来照顾我们的叔叔阿姨，还有这些年轻的护士小姐姐。
Thanks to these great people! When we were sick and sick with the virus, it was our duty to take care of our uncles and aunts and the young nurses and younger sisters just because we were doctors and nurses.
【金昊：已愈新冠肺炎患者】1月25日大年初一。
Jin Hao: The new crown pneumonia patient already had the January 25th New Year's Day.
按照往年惯例，我得带着老婆、孩子，去给80多岁的奶奶拜年。
As is customary in past years, I have to take my wife and children to pay a New Year call to Grandma in her 80s.
今年去不了，只好电话里给她反复解释。
I couldn't go this year, so I had to explain it over and over on the phone.
其他的拜年也都取消了，好在大家都理解，也就打电话或微信拜年了。
All the other New Year's visits have been cancelled. Fortunately, everyone understands, so I have to call or send a New Year call.
【龙振江：志愿者】1月25日今天是大年初一，也是我从事志愿者工作的第一天，一切还挺顺利。
Today is the first day of New Year and the first day of my volunteer work. Everything went well.
我一直觉得，在家乡遭遇如此重大的新冠病毒疫情的时候，应该承担一些事，特别是捐献物资的组织工作，因为我自己还具备一些条件。
I have always felt that there is something to be done when my hometown suffers from such a major outbreak of the new crown virus, especially the organization of the donation, because I have some conditions of my own.
我以前我在黄州（黄冈市的中心区）做过多年生意，阅世识人，三十多岁也有一些人脉。
I used to do business in Huangzhou (the center of Huanggang) for many years. I have many contacts in my thirties.
做这个志愿者，需要各种各样的突破。
It takes all sorts of breakthroughs to be a volunteer.
比如今天运送这批捐赠医用口罩，我会考虑各种细节问题：去武汉危险不危险？武汉封城怎么进去？怎么出来？还好政府相关部门帮我解决了“封城”后车辆出入证的问题，大概历时5个小时，我从武汉就拉回11万个医用口罩到黄冈，送给医院和一些急需口罩的机构。
For example, today I will consider the details of this donation of medical masks: Wuhan dangerous not dangerous? Wuhan how to get in? How to get out? Fortunately, the relevant government departments helped me solve the "closed" after the vehicle pass problem, about five hours, I pulled back 110,000 medical masks from Wuhan to Huanggang, to hospitals and some badly needed surgical masks.
我是23日一大早从广州回黄冈，回家过年。
I returned to Huanggang from Guangzhou early in the morning to celebrate the New Year.
我戴了一只在广州买的N90口罩，下车就发现，疫情比想象中严重多了，6毛8的口罩不给力了。
I was wearing a N90 mask I bought in Guangzhou. I got out and found that the epidemic was much worse than I had expected.
今年是我人生中第三个本命年，也是第二次创业。
This is the third year of my life and my second.
我进入了一个新兴行业，为电商服务的第三方做仓储。
I entered a new industry, serving as a third party storage for the electrical business.
直播带货的网红，什么辛有志、散打哥，还有薇娅，都有货从我这里过。
Live delivery of the net red, what Xinzhi, Sanda brother, as well as Via, have goods from me.
回家的一路上，看着身边许多带口罩的人，不由心生许多感慨。
The way home, looking at many people wearing masks around, not feeling a lot of feeling.
我在朋友圈甩出一串话：“湖北黄冈人，在外创业，过年回家。
I shook out a string of words in the circle of friends: "Huanggang people in Huanggang, outside entrepreneurship, the New Year home.
别人问，你们湖北人怎么不怕死，还往家跑。
People ask, you Hubei people are not afraid of death, but also run home.
我说，现在创业这么艰难都敢闯敢拼，怕什么。
I said, the venture is so difficult now dare to venture, afraid of what.
家在湖北，父母妻儿在湖北，所以湖北有一份责任在。
Home in Hubei, parents and children in Hubei, so Hubei has a responsibility.
”在广州的时候，我就联系好了老家的朋友，一下车就去提2万只一次性医用口罩。
When I was in Guangzhou, I contacted my friends back home and got out of the car to pick up 20,000 disposable medical masks.
老家黄龙村村民总共五六千人，每人发几个就完了。
There are five or six thousand villagers in Huanglong village in our hometown.
浠水县发布到各个乡镇张贴的“致全县父老乡亲的一封信”【马亿：浠水县汪岗镇，北京回乡白领】1月25日从我记事起，到今年28年，第一次大年初一不用早起去到街上其他的人家里串门拜年。
It is indicated that it is not necessary to get up early to pay New Year's Day visits to the houses of the other personnel in these area from the day I remember them to 28 years ago.
昨天除夕的时候已经收到村里通知，今天早上各家各户不能出门。
I received a notice from the village yesterday New Year's Eve that every family could not go out this morning.
早上睡到九点多起来，照例吃的是本地特色饺子——包面。
In the morning sleep till more than 9 o'clock, as usual, eat the local characteristics of dumplings - wrapped noodles.
按惯例，吃完早饭就是打电话给外地长辈拜年，但今天实在是没有任何心情，也就没有打。
As usual, after breakfast is to call the elders from the outside world to pay a New Year call, but today is really in no mood, also did not fight.
不能出门，一家人只有坐在客厅里看电视。
Can not go out, the family can only sit in the living room watching TV.
其实也没有真的看电视，各人都在刷手机。
Actually also did not really watch TV, each person is brushing the mobile phone.
这已经变成了一家人整天最大的集体活动，不断盯着手机里四面八方传来的各种各样的新冠疫情信息。
It has become the biggest group event of the day, keeping an eye on all kinds of new crowns coming from all over the phone.
各地新冠肺炎确诊人数和疑似病例的数字还在不断增加。
The number of confirmed and suspected cases of pneumonia in all regions is increasing.
一整天，我家屋前县道上几乎看不到人，也几乎没看到过车。
Throughout the day, I could hardly see anyone on the county road in front of my house and hardly ever seen a car.
我家是1999年搬到这里的，我还是第一次看到马路上这么清静，大白天的，安静地就像深夜一样，一种奇怪的感觉。
My family moved here in 1999, and for the first time I saw the road so quiet, broad daylight, quiet as late at night, a strange feeling.
我和妻子在北京上班。
My wife and I work in Beijing.
1月20日，我们才从北京返回浠水，回来陪父母过年。
It is indicated that it is suggested that we should return to these area from Beijing to accompany their parents during the New Year.
年前买到了N95口罩，但是几乎没用，因为没有一个人愿意出门。
I bought an N95 mask a few years ago, but it's almost useless because no one wants to go out.
前天买口罩的时候特意问了一下镇上药店的工作人员。
When buying masks the day before yesterday, I asked the town drugstore staff.
店主说，他在这里开了二十多年的药店，第一次卖这种口罩。
The owner said he opened a pharmacy here for more than 20 years and sold the mask for the first time.
下午把高铁票退掉了，本来计划正月初五返程北京。
The high-speed rail ticket was returned in the afternoon and was scheduled to return to Beijing on January 5.
12306发来消息，车次已经停运，啥时候回北京就等通知吧。
12306. The train is out of service. Wait for the call when you get back to Beijing.
（文中叶薇为化名）【未完待续】(本文来自澎湃新闻，更多原创资讯请下载“澎湃新闻”APP)。
For more original information, please download the "Peng Pai News" APP.)
【专题】防控新冠肺炎。
Topic: Prevention and control of new crown pneumonia.
责任编辑：储静伟校对：张亮亮。
Responsibility editor: Jing Wei storage proofread: Zhang Liang Liang.
澎湃新闻报料：4009-20-4009  澎湃新闻，未经授权不得转载。
Pai news: 4009-20-4009 surging news, not allowed to reproduce without authorization.
关键词 >> 湖北黄冈 抗疫日记。
Key words & gt; & gt; Huanggang plague diary.
收藏。
Collection.
跟踪: 抗疫日记。
Tracking: Anti-epidemic diary.
相关推荐。
Relevant recommendations.
抗疫日记丨我们是ECMO的守护者。
The Journal of Disease Control is our guardian.
抗疫日记 | 一封不敢邮寄的家书。
A letter from home not daring to send by mail.
抗疫日记 | 雷神山的三重门。
The Triple Door at Rai Shenshan.
评论（3）。
Commentary (3).
热新闻。
Hot news.
一天。
One day.
三天。
Three days.
一周。
One week.
外媒：巴西总统博索纳罗的新冠病毒检测呈阳性。
Intermediary: Brazilian President Jose Antonio Bosonaro tested positive for the new crown virus.
加拿大总理特鲁多妻子确诊新冠肺炎，特鲁多无症状将继续隔离。
Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau's wife confirmed pneumonia and Trudeau will remain asymptomatic.
央行3月16日定向降准，释放长期资金5500亿元。
The central bank targeted a cut on March 16, releasing 550 billion yuan in long-term funds.
美国将部分从中国进口医疗产品取消加征关税，含口罩听诊器等。
The United States will partially import medical products from China to abolish tariffs, including stethoscope masks, etc.
国务院新闻办公室发表《2019年美国侵犯人权报告》。
The Information Office of the State Council publishes the 2019 United States Human Rights Violations Report.
巴西总统博索纳罗在个人社交媒体账号称，病毒检测呈阴性。
Brazil's president, Jose Antonio Bossano, said on his personal social media account that the virus was negative.
国家卫健委：昨日新增新冠肺炎确诊病例8例，其中武汉5例。
National Fitness and Health Commission: New cases of pneumonia confirmed yesterday 8 cases, among which Wuhan 5 cases.
西班牙宣布进入紧急状态，累计确诊病例达4209例。
A state of emergency was declared in Spain, with a cumulative total of 4,209 confirmed cases.
外媒：澳大利亚内政部长新冠病毒检测呈阳性。
Intermediary: Australian Interior Minister New Crown Virus tested positive.
上海新增2例境外输入型新冠肺炎确诊病例，为美国意大利输入。
Shanghai added 2 newly diagnosed cases of foreign imported new crown pneumonia, imported by the United States and Italy.
湖北潜江：26号通告取消，继续实行严格交通管制、人员管控。
Hubei buried river: Notice 26 canceled, continue to implement strict traffic control, personnel control.
亲赴抗击疫情主战场，习近平对这几类人说出心里话。
Xi spoke to these categories of people when he went to fight the main battleground of the epidemic.
曾手写遗书，感染新冠病毒的武汉大四女孩毕业前上“生死课”。
Once handwritten will, infected with the new crown virus Wuhan four-year-old girl before graduation "life and death lessons."
美国疾控中心主任：部分死于流感病例可能实患新冠肺炎。
CDC Director: Some deaths from influenza may actually result in new crown pneumonia.
瑞士或全境进入紧急状态。
A state of emergency exists in Switzerland or
中国红十字会组建7人抗疫专家组赴意大利。
Chinese Red Cross has set up 7-member anti-epidemic team to Italy.
外媒：巴西总统博索纳罗的新冠病毒检测呈阳性。
Intermediary: Brazilian President Jose Antonio Bosonaro tested positive for the new crown virus.
湖北：分区分级分类分时有序推进复工复产，继续延迟学校开学。
Hubei: Divisional classification according to time and order to promote the resumption of work, continue to delay the opening of schools.
中国首班抗疫援外专家组包机驰援意大利。
China's first foreign aid group chartered to help Italy.
加拿大总理特鲁多妻子确诊新冠肺炎，特鲁多无症状将继续隔离。
Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau's wife confirmed pneumonia and Trudeau will remain asymptomatic.
习近平总书记关切事｜携手下好一盘棋，京津冀战“疫”进行时。
Xi Jinping, the general secretary, was concerned about the plague when he joined hands to fight it.
这场人民战争统帅心中的三个“第一”。
The three "first" in the minds of the commander of the people's war.
福建泉州酒店坍塌事故已致6人死亡，28人正在搜救。
The Quanzhou Hotel collapse in Fujian Province has killed six people and left 28 in search and rescue.
湖北潜江：26号通告取消，继续实行严格交通管制、人员管控。
Hubei buried river: Notice 26 canceled, continue to implement strict traffic control, personnel control.
亲赴抗击疫情主战场，习近平对这几类人说出心里话。
Xi spoke to these categories of people when he went to fight the main battleground of the epidemic.
曾手写遗书，感染新冠病毒的武汉大四女孩毕业前上“生死课”。
Once handwritten will, infected with the new crown virus Wuhan four-year-old girl before graduation "life and death lessons."
伊朗新增新冠肺炎确诊病例1076例，累计确诊5823例。
There were 1076 newly diagnosed cases of new crown pneumonia in Iran and 5,823 cases were diagnosed cumulatively.
习近平抵武汉考察新冠肺炎疫情防控工作。
Xi arrived in Wuhan to investigate the prevention and control of the disease.
美股熔断！开盘后全线暴跌超7%，三大股指暂停交易15分钟。
U.S. stocks meltdown! After the opening line plummeted by more than 7%, the three main stock indexes suspended trading for 15 minutes.
乘公交致13人感染，研究：新冠在密闭空调车厢可传4.5米。
Public transport infects 13 people, study: The new crown in a closed air-conditioned compartment can be transmitted 4.5 meters.
澎湃新闻APP下载。
Pai news APP download.
热话题。
Hot topics.
一天。
One day.
三天。
Three days.
一周。
One week.
我是渣打中国首席投资策略师王昕杰,多国股市暴跌熔断意味着什么,问我吧!。
I am Wang Xinjie, chief investment strategist at Standard Chartered China. What does a collapse of a multinational stock market mean? Ask me.
我是上海对外经贸大学教授李辉文,关于简单经济学,问吧!。
I am Li Peiwen, professor of Shanghai Foreign Trade University, asking about simple economics.
疫情面前，你家亲戚让你操心了吗？。
Did your relatives worry you about the outbreak?
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
我是国研院欧洲所所长崔洪建,关于疫情下欧洲各国的关系走向,问吧!。
I'm Cui Hongjian, director of the European Institute of Studies and Research.
我是上海对外经贸大学教授李辉文,关于简单经济学,问吧!。
I am Li Peiwen, professor of Shanghai Foreign Trade University, asking about simple economics.
我旅居意大利17年,疫情下当地民众生活什么样,问我吧!。
I've been living in Italy for 17 years. Ask me what life is like for the local population.
我是国研院欧洲所所长崔洪建,关于疫情下欧洲各国的关系走向,问吧!。
I'm Cui Hongjian, director of the European Institute of Studies and Research.
疫情面前，你家亲戚让你操心了吗？。
Did your relatives worry you about the outbreak?
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
我旅居意大利17年,疫情下当地民众生活什么样,问我吧!。
I've been living in Italy for 17 years. Ask me what life is like for the local population.
疫情面前，你家亲戚让你操心了吗？。
Did your relatives worry you about the outbreak?
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
我致力于流行文化及性别研究,什么是耽美亚文化,问吧!。
I'm committed to pop culture and gender studies. What is the addictive subculture? Ask.
我是上海对外经贸大学教授李辉文,关于简单经济学,问吧!。
I am Li Peiwen, professor of Shanghai Foreign Trade University, asking about simple economics.
热门推荐。
Hot recommendations.
湖北新增确诊病例数连续两日保持在个位数，均来自于武汉市。
The number of newly confirmed cases in Hubei province remained in single digits for two consecutive days.
美股三大指数高开超5%，德法英主要股指盘中均涨逾9％。
The top three US indexes were higher than 5 per cent, while German, French and British main indexes were up more than 9 per cent.
央行3月16日定向降准，释放长期资金5500亿元。
The central bank targeted a cut on March 16, releasing 550 billion yuan in long-term funds.
CA936航班乘客、机组人员相关防控措施公布。
CA936 Flight passengers, crew-related control measures announced.
1649人，感谢有你！上海支援湖北医护人员全名单公布。
Thank you, 1649! The full list of medical personnel in Shanghai support Hubei is announced.
var lbdHeight = $(".head_ad").height()+$(".head").height()+$(".main_rt").height()-260; //滑到体到顶部的高度。
var lbdLight = $(& quot; .head _ ad & quot;) .height () + $(& quot; .head & quot;) .height () + $(& quot; .main _ rt & quot;) .light (-260; / / sliding to top height.
var topHeight = parseInt($(window).scrollTop() + 1 + 70);  //浮动频道高度70。
var topLight = parseInt ($(window) .scrollTop (+ 1 + 70); / / floating channel height 70.
联系我们。
Contact us.
关于澎湃。
About the roar.
在澎湃工作。
Working in the roar.
联系我们。
Contact us.
版权声明。
Copyright statement.
隐私政策。
Privacy policy.
澎湃广告。
There was a roaring advertisement.
友情链接。
Links to friends.
澎湃新闻举报受理和处置办法。
Measures for handling and handling surging news reports.
严正声明。
Solemn declaration.
Copyright © 2014~2020 The Paper All rights reserved.上海东方报业有限公司 | 沪ICP证：沪B2-20170116 | 沪ICP备14003370号 | 互联网新闻信息服务许可证：31120170006。
Shanghai Oriental Daily News Ltd. & # 144; Shanghai ICP Certificate: Shanghai B2-20170116 & # 124; Shanghai ICP Readiness 14003370 & # 124; Internet News Information Service license: 31120170006.
沪公网安备 31010602000299号。
Shanghai Public Net 3101 602000299.
站长统计。
Station master statistics.
c={//监测配置。
c = {/ monitoring configuration.
UA:"UA-thepaper-000002", //客户项目编号,由系统生成。
UA: & quot; UA-theaper-000002 & quot;, / or customer project number, generated by the system.
URL:'//file.thepaper.cn/www/v3/js/iwt-min.js'//iwt.js的URL位置，请客户自行托管JS文件，只需修改此值。
URL::: / / file.thepaper.cn / www.v3 / js / iwt-min.js & apos; / / iwt.js URL location; and / or iwt.js, have its client manage a JS file by yourself, simply modify this value.
//多视频。
/ / Multi-Video.
