欧洲同行求助钟南山。
European counterparts turn to Zhong Nan Shan.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
“环球时报”微信公号“环球时报”微信公号3月11日消息，国家卫健委高级别专家组组长、中国工程院院士钟南山与欧洲呼吸学会候任主席安妮塔·西蒙斯博士进行视频连线，向欧洲呼吸学会介绍了中国抗击新冠肺炎疫情的成果和经验。
China's new crown pneumonia outbreak was presented to the European Respiratory Society via a video link between Zhong Nan Shan, chairman of the National Fitness and Health Commission and academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, and Anita Simmons, president-designate of the European Respiratory Association.
欧洲疫情持续拉响警报，意大利宣布从周二起在全国范围内实行封城禁令。
The European epidemic continues to sound the alarm, with Italy announcing a nationwide ban on the city from Tuesday.
总部位于瑞士洛桑的欧洲呼吸学会3月10日接受环球时报-环球网书面采访时表示，欧洲正在借鉴中国的抗疫经验，积极为疫情暴发做准备，欧洲公共卫生专家已经认识到中国的快速诊断、可能的新疗法，以及隔离策略的重要价值;学会赞赏中国团队在临床信息和病例结果上的快速分享和高度透明，并称“这是非常宝贵的”。
The European Respiratory Society, based in Lausanne, Switzerland, told the Global Times-World Wide Web on March 10 that Europe was actively preparing for an outbreak drawing on China's experience in fighting the disease. European public health experts have recognized the value of China's rapid diagnosis, possible new treatments and isolation strategies.
欧洲呼吸学会告诉环球时报-环球网，欧洲正在世界卫生组织和欧洲疾病预防控制中心的指导下，积极为疫情暴发做准备。
The European Respiratory Society told the Global Times-Global Network that Europe was actively preparing for an outbreak under the guidance of the World Health Organization and the European Centre for Disease Control and Prevention.
学会正在协调各项方案，并将中国等国在疫情应对上的丰富经验纳入其中。
The Society is coordinating programmes and incorporating the rich experience of countries such as China in responding to the epidemic.
“学会赞赏中国团队在临床信息和病例结果上的快速共享和高度透明，这是非常宝贵的。
"The Society appreciates the rapid sharing of clinical information and case results and the high degree of transparency of the Chinese team, which is invaluable.
”欧洲呼吸学会表示。
"said the European Respiratory Society.
3月3日至4日，国家卫健委高级别专家组组长、中国工程院院士钟南山与欧洲呼吸学会候任主席安妮塔·西蒙斯博士进行视频连线，向欧洲呼吸学会介绍了中国抗击新冠肺炎疫情的成果和经验。
From 3 to 4 March, Zhong Nan Shan, Academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering and Chair-designate of the European Respiratory Society, made a video link to the European Respiratory Society to share with the European Respiratory Society the achievements and experiences of China in the fight against the outbreak of Newcrown Pneumonia.
学会对环球时报-环球网表示，钟院士就临床护理和研究方面做了非常“有用和全面”的介绍，并参与了之后的问答环节。
Academics told the Global Times-World Wide Web that academicians made "useful and comprehensive" presentations on clinical care and research, and participated in the question-and-answer session that followed.
钟南山与欧洲呼吸学会主席视频连线（视频截图） 本文图均为 环球时报微信公众号 图另外，欧洲呼吸学会表示，将与中国加强抗疫合作。
The video link between Zhong Nan Shan and the president of the European Respiratory Society (Video Interview). This picture shows the Global Times Micromail public image.
学会计划在今年9月在维也纳举行的欧洲呼吸学会国际大会期间与中方举办联合教育活动，分享迄今为止从疫情中吸取的教训，同时学会也在与中方讨论开展新冠联合研究的可能性。
The Society plans to hold joint educational activities with China during the International Congress of the European Respiratory Society, to be held in Vienna in September this year, to share the lessons learned from the outbreak so far and to discuss with China the possibility of conducting joint research on the New Crown.
钟南山院士应邀向欧洲同仁全方位解析新冠肺炎 （配中文文字版）3月11日，ERS欧洲呼吸学会微信公众号发表文章，将钟南山院士解析新冠肺炎的演讲进行中文翻译，全文如下↓↓↓视频截图尊敬的同事们，女士们，先生们：非常荣幸能有机会与您分享我们处理中国境内COVID19感染的相关经验。
PhD), PhD, PhD, PhD Dear Colleagues, Ladies and Gentlemen, I am honored to have the opportunity to share with you our experience in dealing with COVID19 infection in China. I am honored to have this opportunity to share with you our experience in handling COVID19 infection in China.
在这种情况下，我仍然在前线工作，所以准备这个PPT比较匆忙。
In this case, I was still working on the front line, so preparing this PPT was a bit rushed.
我只能告诉您一些事实、某些现象以及我们需要解决的一些问题。
I can only tell you some facts, some phenomena and some of the problems we need to solve.
我打算与您分享，并且我将在传播途径、临床诊断和管理方面进行简短的讨论，并后面会讨论我们遇到的一些问题以及机械通气方面。
I intend to share it with you, and I'll have a brief discussion of transmission pathways, clinical diagnosis, and management, as well as some of the problems we encounter and mechanical ventilation later.
因此，我题目是“中国对SARS冠状病毒2（COVID 19）感染的处理观点”。
Therefore, my topic is "China's treatment of SARS coronavirus 2 (COVID 19) infection."
大家都了解，COVID 19正在向全世界传播。
It is understood that COVID 19 is being disseminated worldwide.
这个时间非常短（不超过两个月）。
This period is very short (not more than two months).
我将向您介绍一些我们的做法。
I'll show you some of our practices.
如大家所知，在21世纪爆发了三种常见病毒感染。
As you know, three common virus infections have broken out in the twenty-first century.
第一是2003年的SARS，第二是 2012年MERS和2020年的COVID19。
The first was SARS in 2003, the second was MERS in 2012 and COVID19 in 2020.
对于SARS-COV-2这个病毒基本的信息大家有所了解，他的宿主可能是蝙蝠，中间宿主尚未明确。
Basic information about the SARS-COV-2 virus is known. His host may be a bat, and the intermediate host is not yet known.
这不是我要说的重点。
That is not the point.
现在认为COVID 19属于β冠状病毒的B谱系，与SARS冠状病毒和MERS冠状病毒不同。
It is believed that COVID 19 belongs to the B-lineage of the coronavirus, unlike the SARS coronavirus and the MERS coronavirus.
COVID19在整个基因组水平上与蝙蝠冠状病毒具有96％的同源性，而且在全基因水平上与SARS冠状病毒有76.7％的同源性，与MERS冠状病毒有33.8％的同源性。
COVID 19 is 96% homologous to the bat coronavirus at the whole genome level and 76.7% homologous to the SARS coronavirus and 33.8% homologous to the MERS coronavirus.
这是去年12月26日发现的数据。
This is the figure found on 26 December last year.
最早张医生在武汉市中西医结合医院发现了第一起,包括三个病例和一个家庭。
The first case, involving three cases and a family, was discovered by Dr. Zhang at Wuhan Chinese and Western Medical Association Hospital.
从那时起，2月初的那个暴发高峰期就开始到来了。
Since then, the peak of the outbreak began in early February.
这就是整个情况简单描述（见视频）。
This is a brief description of the whole situation (see video).
第二点是传播特征，首先是传播途径。
The second is the transmission of characteristics, first and foremost the means of transmission.
现在大家都知道，COVID19肯定存在人与人之间的传播。
It is now common knowledge that COVID19 is bound to be transmitted from person to person.
最早的证据可以回到1月10日出现症状的病例报道研究，那是一家七口的澳大利亚华人。
The earliest evidence can be traced back to the January 10 case report study of a seven-member Australian Chinese.
他们中有六个曾在武汉，与武汉人接触过，然后被感染并回到深圳后做出诊断。
Six of them had been in Wuhan, had contact with Wuhan people, were infected and returned to Shenzhen to make a diagnosis.
第七个人，以前没有去过武汉。
The seventh man has never been to Wuhan before.
然后因为是亲密接触者，接受测试以后发现也被感染了。
Then, because they were close contacts, they were tested and found to be infected.
这明确显示了人传人。
This is a clear indication of human-to-human transmission.
对于传染病，核心关键是停止传播。
For infectious diseases, the key is to stop transmission.
是否有粪口传播是现阶段大家关心的问题。
Whether or not there is fecal transmission is a concern at this stage.
我们的数据提示病人的粪便、尿液中存在传染性的病毒，血液中也有病毒存在。
Our data suggest the presence of infectious viruses in the stool and urine of patients, as well as viruses in the blood.
但病人粪便或尿道中的病毒是否具有呼吸道的传染性，我们并不清楚。
However, it is not clear whether the virus in the patient's faeces or urethra is respiratory infectious.
例如，在这里您可以看到在香港发生的两个COVID-19感染病例，这是在康美大楼同一栋楼中里。
For example, here you can see two cases of COVID-19 infection in Hong Kong, in the same building as the Comme Building.
一个是在1月30日感染了COVID-19，另一个是在2月10日感染了COVID-19。
One was infected with COVID-19 on 30 January and the other with COVID-19 on 10 February.
这意味着我们要进行深入研究，查明是否是由于淋浴器或排气管泄漏造成的。
This means that we have to do an in-depth study to find out if it was caused by a shower or a leaking exhaust pipe.
您也可以从钻石公主游轮上看到相关的例子。
You can also see examples from the Diamond Princess Cruise ship.
在钻石公主号上，直到2月29日，总共709名患者中（近20％乘客）感染了COVID 19，究其原因可能通过管道或淋浴器致促进了传播。
On board the Princess Diamond until 29 February, a total of 709 patients (nearly 20 per cent of the passengers) were infected with COVID 19, possibly as a result of transmission through pipes or showers.
另一方面是无症状患者，或者我们称之为病毒携带者，将病毒传播给其他人。
On the other hand, asymptomatic patients, or viral carriers as we call them, transmit the virus to others.
这是一篇最近病例的论文。
This is a paper on a recent case.
患者参观德国并参加商务会议，他的部分同伴也参加了会议。
The patient visited Germany and attended a business meeting in which some of his companions also participated.
当他飞回中国时，出现了明显的症状，三天后接受了COVID-19感染的检查呈现阳性结果，2天后他的两个同伴也出现症状病确诊。
When he flew back to China, he developed obvious symptoms. Three days later he tested positive for COVID-19 infection, and two of his companions were diagnosed with symptoms two days later.
换而言之，无症状或所谓病毒携带者，可能具有一定的传染性。
In other words, asymptomatic or viral carriers may be contagious.
另外一个例子是这样的，有一架武汉飞往德国的航班，其中有114名乘客，都没有任何症状，然而他们中的两人发现COVID 19阳性。
In another example, there was a flight from Wuhan to Germany with 114 passengers, none of whom had any symptoms, yet two of them found COVID 19 positive.
这意味着它们可能具有一定的传染性。
This means that they may be somewhat contagious.
那么COVID19在婴儿会发生什么情况呢？这里有9个婴儿，最小的婴儿只有一个月，不超过2个月大。
So what happens to COVID 19 in babies? There are nine babies, the youngest one month old, and not more than two months old.
他们的家人受到了感染，母亲或父亲或其他亲戚显示PCR阳性。
Their families were infected and their mothers or fathers or other relatives showed positive for PCR.
不过婴儿症状非常轻微，不需要去ICU.是的，换句话说，婴儿可以被COVID 19感染。
But babies have very mild symptoms and do not need to go to ICU. Yes, in other words, babies can be infected with COVID 19.
那是否有源自母亲的垂直传播？您可以在此处看到我们收集了9名患者，其中母亲感染了COVID 19，顺利分娩后发现婴儿没有感染。
Is there vertical transmission from the mother? You can see here that we collected nine patients in which the mother contracted COVID 19 and the baby was found not to be infected after the birth.
我们检查了羊水，脐带血，新生儿咽拭子，并且母乳样本也呈阴性。
We examined amniotic fluid, cord blood, swabs from newborn swabs, and breast milk samples were negative.
换句话说，我们没有证据显示垂直传播的存在。
In other words, we have no evidence of vertical transmission.
下面谈一谈感染的动力学，这就是所谓的基本扩增数量RO。
Let's talk about the dynamics of infection. That's the so-called basic amplification number RO.
您可以在这里看到，季节性流感为1.5，MERS小于1，17年前的SARS大约是2-3；颇具感染力。
As you can see here, seasonal influenza is 1.5, MERS is less than 1, 17 years ago SARS was about 2-3; very infectious.
在COVID 19中，多重分析提示基本扩增数量估计接近3。
In COVID 19, multiple analyses suggest that the number of basic augmentations is estimated to be close to 3.
换句话说，这种疾病具有极强的传染性。
In other words, the disease is highly contagious.
还有一件事需要解决。
There is one more thing to resolve.
一个出院后RNA检测复阳的病人，是否仍具有传染性？他们中有些人的复查阳性结果被认为是再次感染。
Is a patient who tested positive for resuscitation after discharge still infectious? Some of them had positive results that were thought to be re-infected.
我认为可能性较小，因为大多数患者康复后会产生更高的特异性Ig G，这可以防止他被感染。
I think it's less likely that most patients will develop a higher specificity, Ig G, after they recover, which prevents them from getting infected.
那到底这类患者是否具有传染性呢？现在我们实际上还不清楚。
So is it really not clear that this type of patient is contagious?
所以我们必须加强出院病人隔离，并在需要出院后再次检查。
So we have to strengthen the isolation of patients discharged from the hospital and re-check after the need to leave.
诊断非常重要。
Diagnosis is very important.
这是另一个数据，显示了72,000例病例，但是在这里您可以看到其中一些称为确诊病例，其中一些称为临床诊断患者。
This is another figure that shows 72,000 cases, but here you can see some of them called confirmed cases, some of which are called clinical diagnoses.
有什么不同？我们必须考虑其中的区别。
What's the difference? We must consider the difference.
对疑似患者的诊断非常重要。
Diagnosis of suspected patients is very important.
我们必须仔细检查。
We must examine it closely.
现在有两种办法，一种是实时PCR，另一种是测量IgM。
There are two ways to do this, one is real-time PCR and the other is measuring IgM.
实时PCR，这是临床确诊标准，我不会讨论太多。
Real-time PCR, which is the standard for clinical diagnosis, I won't talk too much about it.
我这里多说一下最近的COVID 19感染快速检测Ig M试纸。
I would like to mention here the recent COVID 19 infection rapid detection of Ig M test paper.
通过侧流免疫层析测定法（对详细步骤不进行过多说明），您可以在这里看到该患者和非感染者结果的区别。
You can see the difference between the results of the patient and those of the non-infected by side-flow immunochromatography (without going into details).
您可以在这里看到。
You can see it here.
这里。
Here it is.
然后是IgG，这是IgM ，接着是IgG、IgM、 IgG。
Then there is IgG, which is IgM, followed by IgG, IgM, IgG.
由此结果我们可以进行RNA和IgM的双重验证。
As a result, we can double-test RNA and IgM.
IgM实际上是在感染后7天出现的，时间点上来说很可能是在症状发作后的三、四天，这可能是有助于对该疾病的进一步诊断。
IgM actually occurs seven days after the infection, probably three or four days after the onset of symptoms, which may be helpful for further diagnosis of the disease.
当然，非常重要的一点是同流行性感冒进行鉴别诊断。
Of course, it is very important to carry out differential diagnosis with influenza.
我们开发了一种针对芯片的等温扩增分析仪。
We developed an isothermal amplification analyzer for the chip.
这是一种特殊的方法，这儿有缓冲区，有反应孔。
This is a special method. There are buffers, there are reaction holes.
我们可以同时区分其中的一些病原体包括冠状病毒和甲型和乙型流感，以及目前在中国可能的一些其他病原体。
We can distinguish between some of these pathogens, including coronavirus and influenza A and B, as well as some other pathogens that may be present in China.
这里显示了阳性和阴性的对照曲线。
The control curves for both sexes are shown here.
它可以清楚地区分COVID 19和甲流乙流。
It makes a clear distinction between COVID 19 and Stream B.
接下来我想谈谈COVID19的临床特点。
I would like to turn next to the clinical features of COVID 19.
在中国，我们已经收集了1099个案例，数据来自31个省的452家医院，疾病和严重程度按照ATS标准进行分层。
In China, we have collected 1,099 cases from 452 hospitals in 31 provinces, with disease and severity stratified according to ATS standards.
我们使用所谓的复合终点，包括进入重症监护病房，接受有创通气或死亡都算作终点事件。
We used so-called compound endpoints, including access to intensive care units, where receiving invasive ventilation or death were counted as endpoints.
结果提示，COVID19的潜伏期可能是平均四天，大部分患者潜伏期为2到7天，其中大多数有接触史，多数曾到过武汉或者接触过从武汉来的人。
The results suggest that the incubation period of COVID 19 may be four days on average, with most patients having a incubation period of two to seven days. Most of them have a history of contact, most of whom have been to Wuhan or come into contact with people from Wuhan.
发烧和咳嗽最常见是入院时最常见的症状，因此在第一次入院时不到一半患者实际上仅患有咳嗽和其他不适，乏力等，住院期间非常快出现发热，然后咳嗽。
Fever and cough are the most common symptoms on admission, so less than half of the first admissions actually suffer from coughing and other ailments, fatigue, fever and coughing very quickly during hospitalization.
有部分患者主要症状是胃肠道不适，在我们的病例内这并不常见。
In some patients, the main symptom is gastrointestinal discomfort, which is not common in our cases.
这些症状在重症患者中也较常见，重症患者也有比较多的合并症。
These symptoms are also more common in patients with severe diseases, who also have more complications.
超过85％患者出现胸部CT异常，毛玻璃样改变（GGO）或双侧浸润是最常见的表现。
More than 85 per cent of patients presented with chest CT abnormalities, with gross glass-like changes (GGO) or bilateral infiltrations being the most common manifestation.
有一些无症状患者，没有CT异常。
There were asymptomatic patients with no CT abnormalities.
从实验室检查结果来看非常重要的一点是，淋巴细胞减少症和CRP水平升高非常重要，实际上，这表明了患者的预后。
What is important from the laboratory findings is that lymphocytosis and elevated CRP levels are important and, indeed, an indication of the prognosis of patients.
超过1/3的患者有淋巴细胞减少症或血小板减少症。
More than one third of patients have lymphocytopenia or thrombocytopenia.
当然，在病人中还可以发现肺功能或d-二聚体等的异常，但在严重病例中这些改变最为常见。
Of course, abnormalities in lung function or d-dimer can also be found in patients, but these changes are most common in severe cases.
在非严重病例中，1/3的病例接受氧疗或机械通气治疗，糖皮质激素的平均使用率为18.6％。
In non-serious cases, 1 / 3 of the cases were treated with oxygen therapy or mechanical ventilation, and the average rate of glucocorticoid use was 18.6 per cent.
有41.5％重症病例使用了激素，仅13.8%的非重症病例使用了激素。
Hormones were used in 41.5 per cent of serious cases and in only 13.8 per cent of non-critical cases.
激素治疗时间比较短，剂量也相对较小，例如每公斤体重2-4毫克甲基泼尼松；大部分只用了一个星期的激素。
Hormones were given for relatively short periods of time and in relatively small doses, such as 2-4 mg of prednisone per kg of body weight; most of it took only one week.
当时该人群的死亡率仅为1.4％，就像其他国家现在的情况一样，与其他报告相去甚远。
At that time, the mortality rate for that population was only 1.4 per cent, which is very different from other reports, as is currently the case in other countries.
因此，地区不同，时间不同，COVID的致死率也大不相同。
Therefore, different regions, different time, COVID mortality rate is also very different.
在其他一些报告中，死亡率则高达15％或11％。
In other reports, the mortality rate is as high as 15 or 11 per cent.
我们的报告中，有67例达到了终点。
Sixty-seven of our reports have reached the end point.
正如我之前提到的，在重症病例中，达到终点的风险是非重症病例的9倍。
As I mentioned earlier, in severe cases, the risk of reaching the endpoint is nine times higher than in non-critical cases.
然后我们来谈谈传播过程中传染性是否有所改变。
Then let's talk about whether contagion has changed in the course of transmission.
比较武汉（包括来自武汉、居住武汉、有武汉病人接触史）和武汉以外的病人，我们发现，在武汉至少有一种合并症的患者比较多。
We compared patients from Wuhan (including those from Wuhan, those living in Wuhan, those with Wuhan contacts) and those outside Wuhan, and found that there was at least one complication in Wuhan.
所以在武汉更高。
So it's higher in Wuhan.
武汉的患者疲劳和呼吸困难的症状比非武汉患者高，武汉的患者有CT异常的比率也比较高。
The symptoms of fatigue and dyspnea in Wuhan are higher than those in non-Wuhan patients, and those in Wuhan have higher rates of CT abnormalities.
而在武汉地区，与非武汉地区相比，COVID 19感染年轻人和较少合并症的人也较多。
But in Wuhan area, compared with non-Wuhan area, COVID 19 infected young people and fewer complications also more people.
我们使用了Cox模型，针对地理区域进行调整分析。
We used the Cox model to tailor the analysis to geographic areas.
数据提示，湖北省外的患者出现症状到入院时间为4.5天，湖北省内为5.7天，其差异没有统计学意义，换而言之，湖北有更多危重症患者可能与去医院相对比较迟有关系。
The data suggested that there was no significant difference between the 4.5 days that patients outside Hubei province were admitted to hospital and 5.7 days in Hubei province. In other words, there were more patients in Hubei province who were in critical condition.
同样重要的一点是当时武汉的医疗保健资源枯竭。
Just as important was the drying up of medical care in Wuhan at the time.
这样我们这些湖北以外医生的援助可以发挥非常重要的作用。
In this way, we outside Hubei doctor's assistance can play a very important role.
另外，我们还要看一下癌症患者患有COVID19以后的数据，您可以看到癌症患者中的重症病例较大，相关结果提示预后不良。
In addition, we will look at the data of cancer patients with COVID 19, you can see that cancer patients in serious cases, the results suggest poor prognosis.
同时我们发现肿瘤合并COVID19的患者发生严重事件的比率明显增高。
At the same time, we found a significant increase in the incidence of serious incidents in patients with tumors associated with COVID 19.
我们可以看到年龄、肿瘤这两条与死亡和不良预后密切相关。
We can see that age and tumour are closely related to mortality and poor prognosis.
同时高血压，COPD，糖尿病的患者也有比较高的不良预后相关性。
Patients with hypertension, COPD, and diabetes also had higher adverse prognostic correlations.
因此，这意味着我们必须推迟稳定患者的辅助化疗或择期手术。
So that means we have to delay adjuvant chemotherapy or elective surgery.
因此，我们需要为癌症患者提供更强大的个人保护，并加强对癌症治疗的观察监测。
We therefore need to provide stronger personal protection for cancer patients and to strengthen observational monitoring of cancer treatment.
我们收集了超过44000的病例，特别是危重患者中的病死率达到49％。
We have collected more than 44,000 cases, with a fatality rate of 49 per cent, especially among critically ill patients.
这太高了。
That's too high.
我们使用10个风险因素来建立预测模型，由此区分容易发展成这些难以治疗危重病人的风险，是低风险，中风险还是高风险人群。
We used 10 risk factors to build predictive models that distinguished between those who were prone to develop these difficult-to-treat critical patients and those who were at low, moderate or high risk.
这是一个之前大家知之甚少的疾病，没人知道如何治疗这类病人。
This is a previously unknown disease, and no one knows how to treat this kind of patient.
因此，目前在中国有很多随机研究，但是目前并没有结果出来。
So there have been a lot of random studies in China, but so far no results have been produced.
因此，目前已进行了包括柯立芝，阿比多尔，硫酸羟氯奎，利巴韦林和一些中药在内的试验；只有少数经过精心设计的随机对照研究，包括瑞德西韦等仍然在进行中。
So far, experiments have been conducted, including Coolidge, Abidol, HT, ribavirin, and some traditional Chinese medicines; only a few carefully designed randomized controlled studies, including Rhetsevir, are still in progress.
因此，简单的说，已开展近150种治疗COVID感染临床研究，包括抗聚合酶药物，抗疟疾药物，恢复期血浆，细胞治疗，及中药等。
So, in a nutshell, nearly 150 clinical studies have been conducted to treat COVID infections, including antipolymerase drugs, antimalarial drugs, convalescent plasma, cell therapy, and traditional Chinese medicines.
我想特别提一下，我们研究的硫酸羟氯奎。
I'd like to mention in particular that we studied the hydroxychloroquine sulfate.
这个实验包括了10家医院的156位患者，患者每天服用氯喹宁500毫克，每天两次，共10天。
The trial included 156 patients in 10 hospitals who were given chloroquine 500 mg twice a day for 10 days.
初步数据显示，在120名参与者中，有103名实现咽拭子病毒转阴。
Preliminary data indicate that 103 out of 120 participants achieved vaginal swabs.
患者耐受性都很好，药物血药浓度是1.17umol/L，非常接近硫酸羟氯奎对COVID 19的EC50值。
Patients were well tolerated, with a concentration of 1.17 umol / L, very close to the EC50 value of hydroxychlorquine sulphate for COVID 19.
实际上这是单臂研究。
It's actually a one-arm study.
因此，无法与对照组进行比较。
Therefore, no comparison could be made with the control group.
因为这是威胁生命疾病，没有人能够使用安慰剂对照组。
Because it was a life-threatening disease, no one was able to use placebo control.
但是也许我可以给你看一些其他的证据，比如进行克力芝组、阿比朵尔组、硫酸羟氯奎组之间的比较。
But maybe I can show you some other evidence, such as the comparison between the Kaletra group, the Abidol group and the HT group.
可以看到三组之间，发烧的持续时间、咳嗽的持续时间大致相同。
The duration of fever and cough were about the same between the three groups.
与阿比多尔和克力芝组相比，硫酸羟氯奎组RNA检测转为阴性的原因似乎更快或更短，硫酸羟氯奎组的改善率似乎更好。
The reason for the negative RNA test seems to be faster or shorter in the hydroxyl chloride group than in the Abidor and Kaletra groups, and the improvement appears to be better in the HT group.
一些中药已经在我们的p3实验室内进行细胞层面进行了测试。
Some Chinese medicines have been tested at the cellular level in our P3 laboratory.
研究证明，特别是中药显示出对抗病毒和抗炎有效。
Studies have shown that traditional Chinese medicines in particular have been shown to be effective against antiviral and anti-inflammatory conditions.
在这里，我不过多谈关于中药的事情。
Here, I will not dwell on the subject of traditional Chinese medicine.
这里是六神丸相关数据，使用活六神丸后病毒的数量减少了。
Here are the relevant data of Liushenwan, the number of live Liushen pills after the number of the virus decreased.
另一个莲花清瘟胶囊也提示出较比较少的病毒负载。
Another lotus rinderpest capsule also suggests a lower viral load.
以上数据可以为使用中药的医生提供指导。
The above data may provide guidance for doctors who use Chinese medicine.
另外关于康复血浆的使用。
Also on the use of rehabilitation plasma.
我刚刚从武汉的朋友那里得到了一些非常好的数据：他在10个重症患者使用了康复者血浆，对比使用前后可以发现，康复者血浆致使患者的RNA检测全部由阳转阴。
I have just received some very good data from friends in Wuhan: he used plasma from 10 patients with severe illness, and before and after comparison, it was found that the plasma of the convalescent patients had caused all of their RNA testing to turn from positive to negative.
其原理可能是康复者血浆中的抗体起效了。
The principle may be that antibodies in the plasma of a recovering patient are working.
我在这我还想谈谈机械通气的特殊问题。
Here I would also like to talk about the special problem of mechanical ventilation.
大多数危重患者的治疗中接受有创通气，甚至在这些患者中接受ECMO治疗。
Most critically ill patients receive invasive ventilation and even ECMO treatment in these patients.
但是我们遇到的问题是，患者出现呼吸困难，但呼吸频率和吸气肌力正常，无创通气时无呼吸急促，这些相关体征给了医务人员错误的信号，看似把患者的氧饱和度维持在了“正常”水平，但是实际上它导致插管的延迟。
But the problems we encountered were breathing difficulties, but normal breathing rates and muscle strength, and no shortness of breath during non-invasive ventilation. These correlations gave medical staff the wrong signal and appeared to keep patients' oxygen saturation at "normal" levels, but in fact it led to delayed intubation.
这在不同城市的重症监护病房中很常见。
This is common in intensive care units in different cities.
第二点是，尽管插管或机械通气后PaO2 / FiO2的比例很快改善，但由于患者与呼吸机之间有非常严重的不协调，因此似乎很难撤出镇静剂/肌肉松弛剂。
Second, although the proportion of PaO2 / FiO2 improved rapidly after intubation or mechanical ventilation, it seemed difficult to remove sedatives / muscle relaxants due to the very serious dissonance between the patient and the ventilator.
因此，临床表现与SARS或常规ARDS完全不同。
Therefore, the clinical manifestations are completely different from those of SARS or conventional ARDS.
一旦有了ARDS，一旦PaO2 / FiO2比例提高，镇静剂就可以非常平稳地撤出，但在COVID19的重症患者中就很困难。
Once ARDS is in place, sedatives can be withdrawn very smoothly once the PaO2 / FiO2 ratio increases, but it is difficult in patients with severe illnesses in COVID19.
我们简单讨论一下患者的病理改变。
Let's briefly discuss the pathology of the patient.
病理分析结果提示肺部存在肺水肿，纤维性渗出，可能是间质纤维化等。
Pathological findings suggest pulmonary edema, fibrous exudation, and possibly interstitial fibrosis.
我要特别指出的是，患者支气管肺泡中有大量的黏液存在，这是个大问题，这是一份尸检报告的结果。
In particular, the presence of a large amount of mucus in the bronchial alveoli is a major problem and is the result of an autopsy report.
在另一份报告中，你可以看到大量暗红色的物质，提示大量粘液在肺泡中存在。
In another report, you can see a large amount of dark red material, suggesting that a large amount of mucus is present in the alveoli.
因此，这是一个非常重要的要点。
This is therefore a very important point.
末端支气管的扩张也被证明了。
The dilatation of the terminal bronchus has also been demonstrated.
所以这告诉我们一个大问题。
So that tells us a big question.
并与SARS和CPVID 19感染之间的病理特征进行比较。
The pathological features of SARS and CPVID 19 infection were compared.
我不会在这上讨论太多，但主要区别可能是大量所谓的粘液。
I won't talk much about it here, but the main difference is probably a lot of so-called mucus.
我不知道这种黏液是什么，是否为肺泡中的液体？实际上这些粘液很难将清除。
I don't know what this mucus is, is it liquid in the alveoli? It's actually very difficult to remove the mucus.
因此，为了改善机械通气的应用，仍然需要解决小气道内粘液分泌的问题。
Therefore, in order to improve the application of mechanical ventilation, still need to solve the small airway mucus secretion problem.
这种难以清除的黏液可能是重症患者高死亡率的主要原因之一。
This mucus, which is difficult to remove, may be one of the main causes of high mortality in critically ill patients.
一份研究表明表明有61％的武汉的危重症患者死亡，因此我们上进行了一项初步研究，结果显示2019新型冠状病毒肺炎患者痰中MUC1 CT段和MUC5AC的水平增加。
A study showed that 61% of critically ill patients in Wuhan died, so we conducted a preliminary study showing increased levels of MUC1 CT and MUC5AC in sputum of patients with new coronavirus pneumonia in 2019.
您可以看到MUC1比正常高5倍，而MUC5AC比正常高50倍。
You can see that MUC1 is five times higher than normal, while MUC5AC is 50 times higher than normal.
因此表明粘液非常粘稠。
This means the mucus is very viscous.
因此，我们在考虑是否可以减少这种粘液在细支气管或肺泡中的积聚以防止患者恶化。
Therefore, we are considering the possibility of reducing the accumulation of this mucous in bronchial or alveolar areas to prevent deterioration.
也许NAC可能是一种选择，其具有抗氧化作用可能有效。
Perhaps NAC is an option, and its antioxidant properties may be effective.
而我们之前其他研究的数据显示，重症肺炎使用NAC确实有效，持续气管内给药也可以改善重症肺炎患者的的临床症状。
While other studies have shown that NAC is effective for severe pneumonia, continuous endotracheal administration can also improve clinical symptoms in patients with severe pneumonia.
因此，另一种方法是我们仅使用所谓的氢氧混合气体来降低气道阻力。
Therefore, another approach is to use only the so-called hydrogen-oxygen mixture to reduce airway resistance.
一方面，它们可以降低呼吸道阻力。
On the one hand, they reduce respiratory resistance.
另一方面，它们可以消除的自由基。
On the other hand, they can eliminate free radicals.
这是其中一名患者。
This is one of the patients.
她说使用其他治疗方案后感觉改善不明显，而使用这种氢气和氧气的混合物后，她的呼吸困难改善很多。
She said she did not feel significant improvement after using other treatments, and that her breathing difficulties improved significantly after using this mixture of hydrogen and oxygen.
视频截图最后，我想谈谈中国控制进一步扩散的战略。
Finally, I would like to talk about China's strategy to control further proliferation.
这是SARS-CoV-2冠状病毒爆发的时间线。
This is the timeline of the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus outbreak.
这是高级专家的第二组。
This is the second group of senior experts.
因此于1月20日了解到。
As a result, it became known on 20 January.
因此我们考虑了明确的人际传播，并确认许多医务人员已被感染。
We have therefore considered clear interpersonal transmission and confirmed that many medical personnel have been infected.
如此看来，中央政府已采取非常有力的行动来控制COVID 19的传播。
Thus, the central government has taken very strong action to control the spread of COVID 19.
因此，首先是在1月23日武汉封城，不要去武汉，不要离开武汉。
Therefore, first of all, in the January 23 closure of Wuhan, do not go to Wuhan, do not leave Wuhan.
然后第二点是，实时发布全国每个城市每天的确诊或疑似患者人数，这是全国第三个重要事件。
The second point is then to publish in real time the number of confirmed or suspected patients per day in every municipality in the country, the third major event in the country.
所谓的启动了所谓的跨机构机制。
So-called cross-institutional mechanisms have been activated.
这意味着需要大规模预防接触和自我隔离，及早发现和早期诊断，然后尽早隔离。
This implies large-scale prevention of exposure and self-isolation, early detection and early diagnosis, followed by early isolation.
这是在中央政府宣布武汉封城后立即发生的事情。
This happened immediately after the central government announced the closure of Wuhan.
这里有一些关于患者的数量有多大的预测。
Here are some predictions about the number of patients.
我记得有些论文曾预测2月初患者会在那时达到190000。
I remember some papers that predicted that the patient would reach 190,000 by early February.
我们的预测基于此传统的经典SEIR模型，同时通过使用其他参数，三个参数，来预测，一个是传播的复杂性等。
Our prediction is based on this traditional SEIR model, using other parameters, three parameters to predict, one is the complexity of propagation, etc.
另外一个参数是，政府管理，它是非常有力的干预。
Another parameter is government management, which is a very powerful intervention.
往年春节的大迁移表明人群的巨大流动。
The migration of Spring Festival in previous years shows the huge flow of people.
基于这些参数，我们进行了预测。
Based on these parameters, we performed the prediction.
这是我们的预测。
This is our forecast.
这实际上是通过使用AI预测患者，结果非常接近实际曲线的情况，这是一条曲线。
This is actually done by using AI to predict the patient and the result is very close to the actual curve, which is a curve.
因此，就是在1月10日提出并实施的干预措施中。
Thus, it was in the intervention that was proposed and implemented on 10 January.
因此得出病人的峰值将在2月底出现，数目大约是60000，很接近目前现实。
It is therefore assumed that the peak of the patient will occur by the end of February, at approximately 60,000, which is very close to current reality.
而如果将干预推迟到五天后进行，那么患者将达到16万人，这是非常庞大可怕的数字。
And if the intervention is delayed until five days later, the number of patients will reach 160,000, which is a very large and frightening number.
然后，如果该措施提前五天实施，我们假设患者大约只有20000。
Then, if the measure is implemented five days earlier, we assume that the patient is only about 20, 000.
在湖北省外的第二十六日，新发确诊的病例下降了，随后湖北也在下降。
On the 26th day outside Hubei province, the number of newly diagnosed cases fell, followed by a decline in Hubei province.
因此，我认为政府采取强有力的行动进行早期防护，早期诊断，早期发现，早期诊断和早期隔离是控制该病的关键。
I therefore believe that strong government action on early protection, early diagnosis, early detection, early diagnosis and isolation is key to controlling the disease.
实际上，我要感谢所有同事。
Indeed, I would like to thank all my colleagues.
在这个月或更长时间的，白天黑夜不间断的努力工作。
In this month or more, working day and night without a break.
同时，我特别感谢一些公司和香港大学，中山大学，广州大学第八人民医院；以及中国广东省CDC，武汉市CDC等机构。
At the same time, I am particularly grateful to some companies and the University of Hong Kong, Zhongshan University, Guangzhou University Eighth People's Hospital, and CDC, Wuhan City, Guangdong Province, China.
谢谢。
Thank you.
（中文翻译文字版仅供参考， 以原视频为准）戳这里进入“全国新型冠状病毒感染病例实时地图”↓↓本期编辑周玉华推荐阅读。
Dell Computers Compute the Computers of Computers, Computers, Computers, Computers, Computers, Computers, Computers, Computers, Computers, and other media.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
欧洲同行求助钟南山。
European counterparts turn to Zhong Nan Shan.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "欧洲同行求助钟南山";。
var msg _ title = & quot; European colleague Ronny Chung & quot;;
var msg_desc = "借鉴中国抗疫经验，为疫情暴发做准备";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; to learn from China's experience.
title: '意大利发生监狱暴动，20人越狱7人死亡',。
A prison riot in Italy has resulted in the death of 7 of its 20 people.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '71岁危重患者想放弃，医生做了个大胆的决定',。
At 71, a critically ill person who wanted to give up, the doctor made a bold decision to service.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '团聚了，但句号没有划上',。
Rendezvous with AT & apos; but not with & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
