湖北这些地方，将有序恢复生产生活秩序。
In these places, production and living order will be restored in an orderly manner.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
湖北广播电视台长江云客户端长江云客户端3月11日消息，近日，湖北多地相继发布通告宣布有序恢复生产生活秩序：襄阳宜城市宜城市新冠肺炎防控指挥部关于有序恢复城区正常生产生活秩序的通告全体市民：为统筹推进疫情防控和经济社会发展，经市防控指挥部研究决定，对城区各行业逐步分批复工复市，现就恢复城区生产生活秩序有关事项通知如下：向上滑动阅览1.除影院、网吧、KTV、洗浴、茶馆、餐饮、住宿酒店、农贸市场、大型商场不能营业外，其他行业做好防疫措施后，采取先复市后检验方式有序开门营业。
The Changjiang River Cloud Client of Hubei Radio and TV station Changjiang River Cloud Client recently announced an orderly resumption of production and living order in Xiangyang Yicheng Yicheng New Crown Pneumonia Control and Prevention Command of Xiangyang Yicheng Yicheng New Crowne Pneumonia in Xiangyang City.
大型超市（好邻居、武商、中百、多又佳、天天福）继续开展线上配送经营，中心农贸市场已批准的经营商户继续开展批发和配送服务。
Large supermarkets (good neighbors, military merchants, middle hundreds, many good, every day) continued to operate online distribution operations, and the approved operators of the Centre's farmers' market continued to carry out wholesale and distribution services.
第二批在第一批恢复一周后（本市“四个清零”14天后），结合疫情防控“四个清零”情况以及上级疫情防控要求，逐步放开经营。
A week after the first batch was resumed (14 days after the "four zeros" in the city), the second batch was gradually released, taking into account the "four zeros" situation and the requirements of disease prevention and control at higher levels.
2.按照“三个不变”（小区值守不变，交通管制不变，公共场所消杀不变）原则，公共交通（公交车、出租车）恢复运营，参与绿色物资运输货车可以通行，电动车、网约车和未经许可的私家车一律不得通行；本小区居民测温登记后可以出入小区，严禁非本小区人员入内。
According to the principle of "three invariants" (constant cell value, constant traffic control and no change in public places), public transportation (buses, taxis) will be allowed to operate, and all electric vehicles, net cars and unauthorized private cars will not be allowed to pass through.
3.恢复经营商户要做好防疫措施，备好防疫物资，经营中做到两消杀、常通风、带口罩、测体温、限人流、不聚集，禁止不戴口罩及发热人员入内。
3. Restore the business to do a good job of epidemic prevention measures, prepared epidemic prevention materials, do two elimination, ventilation, wearing masks, temperature measurement, limited people, do not gather, no wearing masks and feverish people inside.
4.市公安局负责管控非必要出行车辆，城管执法局负责管控不带口罩、扎堆聚集人员。
4. The Municipal Public Security Bureau is responsible for the control of non-essential vehicles and the Metropolitan Administration of Law Enforcement is responsible for controlling the gathering of persons without masks.
5. 市场监管局、商务局、交通运输局、卫健局等部门要全覆盖监管各行业疫情防控，对疫情防控措施不到位、不服从管理的一律关停并从重处罚。
5. The Superintendence of Markets, the Bureau of Commerce, the Bureau of Transport and Communications and the Health Bureau shall fully cover and supervise the prevention and control of epidemic diseases in all sectors.
当前，我市尽管属低风险地区，但低风险并不意味着无风险，疫情防控工作依然是压倒一切的首要任务。
At present, although our city is a low-risk area, but low risk does not mean no risk, epidemic prevention and control is still the overriding priority.
各地各部门要集中精力把各项防控措施落实落细，落实好“防扩散、防输入、防输出”；广大市民要继续保持警惕，遵守管控规定，非必要不出门，出门戴口罩、不扎堆、不聚集，保障自己和家人的健康安全。
All departments everywhere should concentrate on implementing measures to prevent and control proliferation, input and export, and the general public should continue to be vigilant and abide by the control regulations. They must not go out of their homes, wear masks, do not assemble, and ensure the health and safety of themselves and their families.
本通告自2020年3月11日起执行。
This circular will be implemented with effect from 11 March 2020.
2020年3月10日襄阳南漳县南漳县新冠肺炎防控指挥部关于有序恢复全县生产生活秩序通告为有序恢复群众生产生活秩序，坚决打赢疫情防控阻击战、精准脱贫攻坚战，经县疫情防控指挥部研究，现就有关事项通告如下:向上滑动阅览一、安全有序组织生产（一）无疫情镇（区）在做好必要防护前提下，可有序在本镇（区）内范围跨村劳作。
Notice of the Nanzhang County New Crown Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command of Xiangyang Nanzhang County on March 10, 2020 The announcement on the orderly restoration of the order of production and life in the county is as follows:
（二）无疫情村允许群众在本村范围开展农业生产；有疫情村，镇（区）落实管控责任，在确保能防控、不扩散前提下，组织群众有保护措施的开展农业生产。
(2) No epidemic villages allow the masses to carry out agricultural production within their own villages; there are epidemic villages where control responsibilities are exercised by the towns (districts), and agricultural production with mass protection measures is organized under the precondition of ensuring control and non-proliferation.
（三）鼓励就近在县内园区企业、扶贫车间打工就业。
(3) Encouraging nearby enterprises in the county parks and poverty alleviation workshops to take up employment.
县内跨镇（区）返乡、返岗就业人员，由镇（区）之间协调放行。
County cross-town (district) return home, return to work personnel, by the town (district) coordinated release.
二、有序恢复交通秩序（一）继续保留县界、高速路口交通卡口，持续严格管控重点入（离）县境通道，千方百计严防疫情输入和输出。
Restore Traffic Order in an Orderly manner (1) We shall continue to keep traffic at the crossroads of counties and highways, strictly control key entry (exit) channels to the county level and do everything possible to prevent the importation and exportation of epidemic diseases.
（二）无疫情镇（区），撤销辖区内村与村及村组之间疫情防控交通卡口卡点。
(2) No epidemic towns (districts), and the control of epidemic diseases between villages and village and village groups within their jurisdiction shall be abolished.
（三）有疫情镇（区），对辖区内的有疫情村要实行重点管理，一要加强对“四类”人员（确诊病例、疑似病例、无法明确排除新冠肺炎可能的发热患者、确诊患者的密切接触者）的居家隔离和日常健康管理。
(3) With epidemic towns (districts), key management should be carried out in epidemic villages under their jurisdiction. First, home isolation and daily health management should be strengthened for the "four categories" of personnel (confirmed cases, suspected cases, patients with fever who are unable to definitively exclude possible cases of new crown pneumonia, close contacts with confirmed patients).
二要以村为单位加强对进出人员的审核和信息登记。
Second, take the village as the unit to strengthen the in-and-out personnel audit and information registration.
坚决杜绝以堆土、石块和车辆等硬阻隔手段堵塞村组道路，使管控方式由过去“看住门”向“盯住人”转变。
We will resolutely prevent the blocking of village roads by hard-wall means such as earth mounds, stones and vehicles, and make the transition from the old "watch-door" approach to the "man-to-man" approach.
三要组建巡逻队，由村干部带班开展常态化巡逻，严防村民随意聚集、串门、聚餐、打牌。
Third, patrol teams should be set up, with village officials leading regular patrols to strictly prevent villagers from randomly gathering, visiting doors, having meals and playing cards.
对辖区内无疫情的村撤销疫情防控交通卡口卡点，取消交通管制。
Eliminate epidemic prevention and control points and traffic control points in villages with no epidemic situation within their jurisdiction.
（四）尽量减少和优化镇（区）之间交通卡口设置。
(4) Minimizing and optimizing the setting up of traffic gates between towns (districts).
具体由县疫情防控指挥部交通保障组制定方案。
Specific county epidemic prevention and control command traffic support team to develop the programme.
（五）除县疫情防控指挥部和经批准的镇（区）指挥部可以在国、省道上设立交通卡点以外，任何村一律不得在国、省道上自行设立交通卡点。
(5) No village shall set up its own transport card points on the State or provincial roads, except for the county-level epidemic prevention and control command and the approved township (district) command headquarters.
三、继续实行城区车辆和小区人员管控（一）城区继续实行原有交通管控模式，车辆仍需凭证通行。
(1) Urban areas continue to adopt the old traffic control mode, and vehicles still need to be certified for passage.
（二）城区所有小区仍实行24小时值守制度。
(2) All urban districts shall remain under the 24-hour duty system.
（三）城区所有小区居民仍需凭出入证通行。
(3) All residents of small urban areas shall still be permitted by pass.
（四）允许小区居民在小区内活动 ，但必须戴口罩，不串门、不聚集，相互之间保持1.5米以上间距。
(4) Residents of small areas are allowed to move within the small areas, but they must wear masks, do not visit the door, do not gather together and keep intervals of more than 1.5 meters between them.
（五）县公安局、县城管执法局持续加大城区巡查管控力度，严禁不戴口罩、人员聚集、无证外出等行为。
(5) The county public security bureau and county administrative law enforcement bureau shall continuously strengthen the urban inspection and control, strictly forbidding such acts as wearing masks, gathering people and going out without a license.
四、有序恢复保供工作（一）有条件提供无接触配送服务的餐饮企业、“放心早餐店”，经县市场监管部门核准后，可实行无接触式餐饮配送。
(1) To provide catering enterprises and "rest assured breakfast shops" that are in a position to provide non-contact distribution services, and may, with the approval of the county market supervision authorities, carry out contact-free catering and distribution.
禁止顾客在餐厅内吃桌餐。
Customers are not allowed to eat in the restaurant.
（二）城区指定营运的商超继续进行无接触配送。
(2) Continued contact-free distribution of commercial supermarkets designated for operation in urban areas.
（三）对水电、家电、汽车维修店采取预约方式服务。
(3) to provide water, electricity, household appliances and auto repair shops by appointment.
（四）为了支持春季农业生产，允许全县所有农资商店开门经营。
In order to support agricultural production in spring, all agricultural shops in the county are allowed to open and operate.
五、鼓励务工人员有序返岗就业（一）疫情防控期间，所有离漳人员未经县疫情防控指挥部指挥长批准，一律不得前往北京。
During the period of epidemic prevention and control, all Zhangsaurus personnel shall not go to Beijing without the approval of the commander of the county command for disease control and prevention.
（二）鼓励县内工业企业全面复产复工。
(2) Encouraging industrial enterprises in the counties to resume full operations.
对符合疫情防控、安全生产要求，经验收批准复产复工的工业企业，优先办理企业员工车辆通行证和人员出入证。
Industrial enterprises that meet the requirements for epidemic prevention and control, safety in production and receive approval to resume production will be given priority in handling enterprise employees' vehicle passes and personnel passes.
县交通局优先专门开设定时定点城市公交车辆满足企业员工上下班需要。
The county transportation bureau gives priority to setting up regular bus to meet the needs of enterprise employees.
（三）赴省外返岗务工人员，由县人社局牵头，负责对内摸清底数、对外沟通联络，符合组团条件的，采取组团方式，选择合适的交通工具，点对点向外组织输出。
(3) For workers returning from work outside the province, the county people's social bureau shall take the lead, be responsible for ascertaining the number of internal facts, communicating with other countries and meeting the conditions for organizing groups, adopt a group approach, select appropriate means of transport and organize output from point to point.
（四）市内县外返岗务工人员，经本人申请，凭现滞留地村（社区）、镇（区）防控指挥部开具的证明即可放行。
(4) Workers who return to work outside the city county shall be released upon their own application and with a certificate issued by the current Command of Control in the villages (communities) and towns (districts).
（五）省内返岗务工人员，按照《南漳县新型冠状病毒肺炎防控指挥部关于返漳和离漳人员服务管理工作的补充通告》文件要求执行。
(5) Workers returning to work in this province shall comply with the requirements of the Supplementary Circular of the Zhangzhangxian New Coronavirus Pneumonia Control Command on the Administration of Services for Zhangzhang County Zhangzhang County.
南漳县新冠肺炎防控指挥部2020年3月10日黄冈麻城市关于统筹推进疫情防控和有序复工复产复市的通告通告重点内容如下：向上滑动阅览一、继续抓紧抓好疫情防控当前，我市疫情防控发生积极变化，呈现持续向好态势，但防控任务依然艰巨繁重，对疫情的警惕性不能降低，防控要求不能降低，做好疫情防控仍是当前最紧要的任务，是有序推进复工复产复市的前提条件。
The notice issued by Nanzhangxian New Crown Pneumonia Control and Prevention Command on March 10, 2020 is as follows: Continuing to Grasp the Prevention and Control of the Epidemic Disease Control and Prevention and Control of the Epidemic Prevention and Control in our city.
（一）强化企业防控主体责任。
Strengthen the main responsibilities of enterprise control and prevention.
复工复产复市企业、市场主体法人代表是本单位疫情防控第一责任人，要严格落实“三个到位”：企业法人、分管生产和防控的负责人必须到位，所有返岗人员的健康审查必须到位，疫情防控方案、新发疫情应急预案和防疫物资储备必须到位。
The legal representative of the enterprise or market entity responsible for the prevention and control of the epidemic situation of the entity concerned shall strictly implement the "three positions": the legal person responsible for the enterprise, the person in charge of production and control must be in place, the health screening of all personnel returned must be put in place, and epidemic prevention and control programmes, contingency plans and epidemic prevention materials must be in place.
（二）强化个人防控自律意识。
(2) Strengthen individual self-control awareness.
全体市民要主动做好预防，坚持勤洗手、勤通风，外出时佩戴口罩、不串门、不聚集，相互之间保持1.5米以上间距。
All citizens should take the initiative to prevent, adhere to frequent hand-washing, frequent ventilation, wearing masks when going out, do not visit the door, do not gather, keep each other more than 1.5 meters apart.
如果出现发热、咳嗽、乏力、腹泻等症状，要及时就医。
If the occurrence of fever, cough, fatigue, diarrhea and other symptoms, to seek medical treatment.
（三）关心关爱“四类人员”。
To care for "four categories of people."
村（社区）要以自然村塆（小区）为单位，继续加强对我市“四类人员（已治愈出院患者和疑似病人、新出现发热症状患者、此前反复多次发热检测呈阴性的患者、新近返乡人员）”的关心关爱，继续实施生活物资代购代买措施，落实居家隔离及健康跟踪管理服务。
The village (community) will continue to strengthen care for the four categories of people in our city (cured and suspected patients, patients with new fever symptoms, patients who have repeatedly tested negative for fever before, newly returned people).
二、有序推进复工复产复市（一）有序开放各类经营场所。
Promoting orderly resumption of business operations of various types.
从3月11日起，全市所有药店、加油站、车辆维修场所、农资店、快递物流点和原定开放的商超、农贸市场允许开门营业；市内各医疗机构有序恢复正常接诊，各通信运营商、水电油气等民生相关企业投入运营；对于容易形成聚集和密切接触的理发店、餐饮店等，由主管部门先行试点，形成规范可行的防疫和经营管理办法后再有序放开。
From March 11, all pharmacies, petrol stations, vehicle repair sites, farm-funded shops, express delivery logistics points and the originally open commercial supermarkets and farmers' markets will be allowed to open for business.
有条件提供无接触配送服务的餐饮企业，经市场监督管理局备案后，可实行无接触式餐饮配送。
A catering enterprise which is in a position to provide non-contact distribution services may, upon the record of the marketing supervision administration, carry out contact-free catering and distribution.
其他经营场所不得早于3月20日开门营业，如省、市另有通告的从其通告执行。
Other business premises may not open for business earlier than March 20. If a province or city is notified otherwise, the notice shall be executed.
低风险区域除城乡客运、住宿餐饮、文化娱乐、教育等行业外的场所，由各乡镇指挥部自行决定。
The low-risk areas shall be decided by the township commands themselves, with the exception of urban and rural passenger transport, accommodation, catering, cultural recreation and education.
所有营业场所都要保持通风、经常消毒，进出人员都要佩戴口罩、检测体温。
All business premises to maintain ventilation, regular disinfection, in and out of personnel to wear masks, temperature testing.
（二）有序开展农业生产。
(2) to develop agricultural production in an orderly manner.
所有乡镇（办、区、园、场）在做好防护措施的前提下，可有序组织农业生产。
All townships (offices, districts, gardens and farms) may organize agricultural production in an orderly manner, provided that they have made proper protection measures.
低风险区域可在本乡镇范围跨村劳作。
Low-risk areas can work across villages and towns.
有疫村在乡镇指导下落实管控责任，在确保能防控前提下，组织群众有序开展农业生产。
Under the guidance of townships, affected villages carry out control responsibilities and organize the masses to carry out agricultural production in an orderly manner under the premise of ensuring control and prevention.
（三）有序推进复工复产。
(3) Promoting resumption of production in an orderly manner.
工业企业复工复产按照市防控指挥部印发的《关于做好工业企业复工复产工作的通知》（麻防指〔2020〕55号）安排，分期分批有序复工复产。
Industrial enterprises shall resume production in accordance with the "Notice on the Resumption of Work by Industrial Enterprises" (No. 55) issued by the Municipal Command of Control and Prevention, and resume production in stages and in an orderly manner.
三、调整隔离管控措施（一）严控离鄂入麻通道。
Adjusting the control measures for isolation (1) Strictly controlling the passage from the jaw to the hemp.
保留省界、市界、县界和高速公路、火车站进出卡口，加强歧亭镇、铁门岗乡、白果镇、夫子河镇与武汉市交界的所有卡口管理。
Reservation of provincial, municipal, county and highway, railway station access to the junction, strengthening Qitting town, Tiemengang Township, Baiguo town, Fu Zihe town and Wuhan City junction all card management.
继续落实最严格管控措施，严控在麻人员离鄂，严管无健康码和无我市指挥部开具接收证明人员入麻，严防疫情输出和输入。
Continue to implement the most stringent control measures, strict control in the flax personnel left Hubei, strict control of no health code and no city headquarters issued to receive certification personnel into anesthesia, strictly prevent the outbreak of the export and input.
（二）简化省内有序流动审批流程。
Simplify the procedures for orderly flow examination and approval in the province.
对因生产生活必需在省内流动的人员，持健康绿码或现居住地村（社区）出具的健康证明，可以以自驾、包车等形式通行。
For those who need to move in the province due to production and living, the health certificate issued by the village (community) with health green code or current residence can be passed in the form of self-driving, chartering, etc.
（三）优化市内交通卡口。
(3) Optimizing city traffic gates.
从3月11日零时起，保留市区到周边乡镇卡口，城区主干道卡口全部撤除，乡镇之间、村组之间（有疫小区、自然村塆除外）所有卡口全部撤除。
From 0000 hours on March 11, all major urban road crossings have been removed, except for those in epidemic areas and natural villages.
对因生产生活必需流动的人员，凭健康绿码或现居住地村（社区）出具的健康证明通行。
For persons who are required to move because of production and living, they are allowed to travel on the basis of a health certificate issued by the health code or the village (community) where they currently live.
（四）区别实行小区管控。
(4) Differentiate and implement district control.
从3月11日零时起，撤销所有无疫小区（自然村塆）固定隔离设施，设置活动隔离设施。
From 0000 hours on 11 March, all residential areas (natural village) were removed from the fixed isolation facilities and mobile isolation facilities were installed.
有疫小区（自然村塆）的楼栋继续实行严格管控，继续安排人员值班值守。
The buildings in the plague area (Natural Village) continue to be under strict control, and personnel continue to be on duty.
对所有出入小区人员要作好登记，督促佩戴口罩并检测体温。
Registration of all persons entering or leaving the area, supervision of wearing a mask and temperature testing.
本通告自2020年3月11日零时起执行。
This circular will be implemented from 0000 hours on 11 March 2020.
麻城市新冠肺炎防控指挥部2020年3月10日神农架神农架林区新冠肺炎疫情防控指挥部发布通知通知重点内容如下：向上滑动阅览一、落实分级分区分类分时管理要求全面落实“严格防控、外防输入、内防扩散”防控措施, 统筹推进疫情防控和经济社会发展，有序稳步恢复生产生活秩序。
(1) Implementation of classification and time-sharing management requires the full implementation of the prevention and control measures for "strict prevention and control, external defense input, and internal non-proliferation," so as to push forward the prevention and control of the epidemic and the economic and social development in an orderly and steady way.
落实分级施策要求，林区当前疫情防控总体划定两类严格防控区域。
To fulfill the requirement of graded application, the current epidemic prevention and control in forest areas are divided into two strict control areas.
一类严格防控区域（以下简称一类区域），包括各乡镇集镇建成区域（包含社区和相连村）、有疫病发生村、拟开工的项目和复产的企业，一类区域要继续坚持小区农村全覆盖管控要求。
A category of strict control areas (hereinafter referred to as category I areas), including township market towns (including communities and contiguous villages), endemic villages, projects to be started and enterprises to be rehabilitated, shall continue to adhere to the requirements of total rural coverage control in small areas.
二类严格防控区域（以下简称二类区域），包括无疫村、居民点，二类区域可以在严格管理的前提下，有序组织生产活动。
Category II strictly controlled areas (hereinafter referred to as category II areas), including non-pestilence villages, population centres, and category II areas may organize production activities in an orderly manner under the prerequisite of strict management.
落实分区管理要求，各乡镇全面落实属地管理责任，按照两类防控措施要求加强疫情防控管理。
The implementation of zoning management requirements, towns and villages to fully implement the responsibilities of territorial management, according to two types of prevention and control measures to strengthen disease control management.
落实分类监管要求，对生活服务、生产企业、建设项目等分类确定防控措施标准，加强监管。
We will implement the requirements for classification and supervision, establish standards for prevention and control measures for domestic services, production enterprises and construction projects, and strengthen supervision.
落实分期推进要求，各乡镇、各单位按照林区防控指挥部的工作要求，根据防控工作的阶段性进展，分期推进生产生活秩序的恢复，组织好复工复产。
To fulfill the requirement of advance by stages, all townships and units shall, in accordance with the work requirements of the forest prevention and control command, gradually promote the restoration of order in production and living in stages, and organize the resumption of work and work.
二、有序组织生产生活秩序的恢复（一）以属地管理为原则，落实疫情防控责任。
Organizing orderly restoration of order in production and living (1) Taking territorial management as the principle, carrying out epidemic prevention and control responsibilities.
各乡镇落实属地管理责任，履行复工复产、市场保障的组织管理监督职责。
Townships and townships carry out the responsibility of territorial management, return to work, market security organizational management and supervision.
（二） 统筹做好两类医疗服务。
(b) Coordinating the provision of two types of medical services.
继续严格确诊病例、疑似病例、发热无法排除原因人员、密切接触者“四类人员” 的管控，做到应隔尽隔、应收尽收、应治尽治；恢复各级医疗机构日常诊疗，有序保障居民正常治病就医。
We will continue to strictly diagnose cases, suspected cases and fevers without excluding the causes and control of the "four categories" of people in close contact. We will ensure that medical institutions at all levels are properly treated and treated.
（三） 严格出区、入区人员管控。
(3) Strict control of personnel leaving the area and entering the area.
按照全省工作要求，严禁区内人员离鄂，严防疫情输出。
According to the work requirements of the province, strictly prohibit people from the region to leave Hubei, strictly prevent epidemic output.
离区返省内其他市州的人员，人员经省内目的县（市、区）疫情防控指挥部同意其返回后，持健康证明（含健康绿码）, 通过“湖北交警”微信公众号在“省疫情防控车辆通行保障信息管理平台”提交相关资料，申领电子通行证明后可出区。
After returning to other cities and counties in the province, the personnel can leave the area with a health certificate (including health green code) after approval by the Provincial Command of Prevention and Control of Epidemic Disease, and submit relevant materials through the Hubei Traffic Police Weixin Public on the "Information Management Platform for Passenger Depot Security of Provincial Outbreaks."
确需返回林区的人员，持当地医疗机构出具的健康证明（含健康绿码），向其单位或所在乡镇提出申请并经审核，经林区防控指挥部审核后，持通行证入区，所在单位或乡镇落实包保责任。
Those who do need to return to forest areas shall apply to their units or townships with health certificates (including health green codes) issued by local medical institutions, and be examined and verified.
（四） 实行交通有序管理。
(4) Implementing orderly traffic management.
继续保留6个区级交通检查点：松柏钢厂坪三岔、木鱼三堆河、阳日鱼头河、新华观音河、下谷白磷岩、巫山垭增设唐家营检查点。
Six district traffic checkpoints continued to be maintained: Tangjialing Checkpoints at Pine and cypress Steel Works, Sandui River, Yangsun Fish Head River, Xinhua Guanyin River, Lower Valley White Phosphorus Rock and Wushan ya.
从3月11日起，相邻乡镇共设一个检查点。
Since 11 March, one checkpoint has been set up in neighbouring towns.
取消村级检查点。
Cancellation of village level checkpoints.
因分区分类管理需要的通行，由区指挥部核发统一制作的通行证；减少不急需的跨乡镇车辆、人员流动，各乡镇、居民、商户、企业确需出行的，由所在乡镇按一事一批开具通行证明。
In view of the prevailing need for zoning and classification management, a unified laissez-passer shall be issued by the Sector Command; if the movement of vehicles and persons across towns and villages is not urgently needed and the townships, residents, businesses and enterprises really need to travel, the township concerned shall issue a transit certificate on a case-by-case basis.
（五） 做好城镇市场保供。
(5) to guarantee the urban market well.
从3月11日起，全区所有药店开门营业。
Since March 11, all pharmacies in the district have been open for business.
各乡镇农资商店开门经营。
Township agricultural stores open for business.
已运营的超市继续进行无接触配送，乡镇超市仍按现行模式运行；所有超市实行线上线下同步运营，对进入超市的人流进行限控。
Operated supermarkets continue to operate without contact, and rural supermarkets continue to operate according to the current model; all supermarkets operate simultaneously offline, with restrictions on the flow of people into supermarkets.
水电、家电、汽车维修店、理发店采取预约方式服务。
Utilities, home appliances, car repair shops, hairdressers take the appointment service.
农贸市场、小餐馆、小吃店、小旅馆、夜宵店、歌舞厅、影院、宾馆等暂延期营业，营业时间另行通知。
Business is temporarily postponed until further notice at farmers' markets, small restaurants, snack bars, small hotels, snack bars, cabarets, cinemas, hotels, etc.
门店开业运营需按程序审批，并做好防护和环境消杀工作。
The opening operation of the store shall be subject to the procedure for approval and protection and environmental disinfection.
（六） 优化城区小区封闭管理。
(6) Optimize the closed management of urban areas.
严格小区封闭管理，城区小区继续按照原规定开展值守工作，居民凭证出入；居民可非聚集状态在小区内或房屋周边适度活动。
Strict management of small residential areas, urban areas continue to work in accordance with the original regulations, residents in and out of the certificate; residents may not congregate in small areas or around the housing moderate activities.
居民出入小区购物由二天一次改为一天一次， 凭证出入。
Residents in and out of the district shopping changed from twice a day to once a day, vouchers.
机关和企事业单位人员持证出行，非上下班时间不得持证在外活动。
Personnel of government organs, enterprises and institutions travelling with certificates shall not be allowed to travel outside work hours without certificates.
（七） 有序组织复工复产。
(7) Orderly organizing the resumption of work and production.
认真落实属地管理责任、企业主体责任、行业主管责任和卫生疾控专业机构指导责任，企业坚持“六个到位”的要求，即组织领导到位、防控机制到位、员工排查到位、厂（场）区消杀到位、物资储备到位、员工宣传教育到位。
To conscientiously implement the responsibilities of territorial management, corporate responsibility, industry responsibility and guidance of health and disease control professional organizations, enterprises adhere to the "six in place" requirements, namely, organizational leadership in place, control mechanisms in place, staff clearance in place, factory (field) elimination in place, material reserves in place, staff awareness and education in place.
具备复产复工条件的企业和项目单位向行业主管部门提出复产复工申请，经行业主管部门和区疫情防控指挥部审批同意后复产复工。
Enterprises and project units that meet the conditions for the resumption of production shall apply to the competent departments of industry for the resumption of production and resume work after approval by the competent departments of industry and the District Command of Disease Control.
银行服务大厅及网点、税务服务大厅、行政服务中心等窗口部门，3月11起复产复工。
Window departments, such as banking halls and branches, tax service halls and administrative service centres, resumed operations on 11 March.
（八） 做好特殊困难群体服务保障。
(8) to provide services for groups in special difficulties.
加强对区内贫困户、低保户、低收入家庭，急需就医的人员，滞留在林区的人员等特殊困难群体及时落实保障救助政策。
We will strengthen measures to ensure timely implementation of the aid policy for impoverished families, low-income families and those in urgent need of medical treatment, as well as those in forest areas.
涉及困难帮扶和政策咨询事项可拨打疫情防控咨询和求助电话：12345。
Assistance and policy advice on the prevention and control of the epidemic can be obtained by calling 12345.
神农架林区新冠肺炎疫情防控指挥部2020年3月10日戳这里进入“全国新型冠状病毒感染病例实时地图”↓↓本期编辑周玉华推荐阅读。
PhD Chow Yuhua, editor of this PhD, recommended to read the Dell Computers of the New Coronavirus Infection Map of China on March 10, 2020.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
湖北这些地方，将有序恢复生产生活秩序。
In these places, production and living order will be restored in an orderly manner.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "湖北这些地方，将有序恢复生产生活秩序";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "包括宜城、南漳、麻城等";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; including IKEA, Nanchangosaurus, Massachusetts, and other & quot;;
title: '意大利发生监狱暴动，20人越狱7人死亡',。
A prison riot in Italy has resulted in the death of 7 of its 20 people.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '71岁危重患者想放弃，医生做了个大胆的决定',。
At 71, a critically ill person who wanted to give up, the doctor made a bold decision to service.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '团聚了，但句号没有划上',。
Rendezvous with AT & apos; but not with & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
