留学韩国的中国学生：为什么我选择回国。
Chinese students studying in Korea: Why did I choose to return home?
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻记者 王鑫在韩国首尔某高校留学的韩一敏（化名）囤了食物和口罩，本打算在首尔的住处“宅”到新冠肺炎疫情结束。
Wang Yimin (not his real name), a student at a university in Seoul, South Korea, hoarded food and a mask at his intended home in Seoul until the end of the outbreak.
不过，疫情在韩国的发展蔓延，让韩一敏改变了主意：3月2日，她购买了6日从首尔中转北京到重庆的机票。
However, the spread of the epidemic in South Korea caused Han Yimin to change her mind: on March 2, she bought a 6-day flight from Seoul to Beijing to Chongqing.
回国那天，韩一敏穿着防护服，被量了超过5次体温。
On the day of his return, Han Yimin wore protective clothing and had his temperature taken more than five times.
到达重庆后，韩一敏被“无缝对接”送往指定酒店隔离观察。
Upon arrival in Chongqing, Han Yimin was "seamlessly docked" to a designated hotel for observation.
3月10日，韩一敏告诉澎湃新闻，她已于8日回到重庆市潼南区继续隔离观察。
March 10, Han Yimin told Peng Pai News that she had returned to Chongqing Tongnan District on the 8th to continue to observe isolation.
在国内严防境外输入性病例的当下，她会服从管理，不添麻烦。
In the domestic strict prevention of the importation of sexual cases abroad, she will obey the management, do not cause trouble.
韩国朋友曾问过她，为何这个时候还回国。
South Korean friends had asked her why she was returning home at that time.
韩一敏回答说：“因为我们的治愈率很高，而且我们有强制执行隔离的措施，我觉得很有安全感。
"Because of our high cure rate and our enforcement of quarantine measures, I feel very safe," said Han Yimin.
”身穿防护服，戴着口罩与护目镜的韩一敏。
Han Yimin, wearing protective clothing and masks and goggles.
本文图片均由受访者供图曾纠结是否回国25岁的韩一敏是重庆潼南区人，于2017年前往韩国首尔某高校留学。
Han Yimin, a 25-year-old native of Chongqing Tongnan, travelled to a university in Seoul, South Korea in 2017.
按照课程安排，她将在今年夏天毕业。
According to the course schedule, she will graduate this summer.
突如其来的新冠肺炎疫情，让一切都成了未知数。
The sudden outbreak of pneumonia in the New Crown has left everything in doubt.
韩一敏今年1月3日从首尔回重庆过寒假，由于有事要办，她1月11日返回到首尔。
Han Yimin returned to Chongqing for her winter vacation from Seoul on January 3 and returned to Seoul on January 11 because she had to attend to some errands.
没几天后，首尔要求1月13日到首尔的中国人自行隔离14天。
A few days later, Seoul asked the Chinese to isolate themselves in Seoul on January 13 for 14 days.
随着疫情发展，回国还是待在首尔，让韩一敏纠结了好一阵子。
With the spread of the epidemic, return or stay in Seoul, so Han Yimin entangled for a long time.
“只要韩国确诊1000人，我就立刻回国。
"I will go home as soon as there are 1,000 South Koreans diagnosed.
”2月21日下午，韩一敏在朋友圈写下这段文字。
"On the afternoon of February 21, Han Yimin wrote the phrase in a circle of friends.
韩一敏发朋友圈的当天，韩国累计156例新冠肺炎确诊病例，距离韩一敏的“目标数”还差很远。
On the day of Han's circle of friends, there were 156 confirmed cases of new crown pneumonia in South Korea, far from Han's "target number."
没想到仅过了4天，这一数字就达到977例。
Only four days later, that figure had reached 977.
不过，这些确诊患者大部分集中在大邱市和庆尚北道地区。
However, the majority of these confirmed patients are concentrated in Daegu city and Gyeongshan North Province.
到了要走的关口，韩一敏又不想走了。
To go to the pass, Han Yimin did not want to go.
“我因为自己怕就往家里跑的话，这个行为不对，万一我是潜伏期，大家都要遭（殃），我先在首尔自我隔离。
'If I run home for fear of myself, that's not the right thing to do, and in case I'm incubating, I'll isolate myself in Seoul.
”韩一敏告诉澎湃新闻，她当时还在首尔的一个大型商场里做兼职，担心万一在兼职时被传染，成了潜伏期患者，回国就有可能传染给其他人，给国内的医护人员和防疫工作添麻烦。
Han told Pong Pai News that she was working part-time at a large shopping mall in Seoul, fearing that if she caught the virus while working part-time, she would become an incubator, which could infect others on her return home, complicating health-care workers and immunization efforts in the country.
即使是在首尔时没被传染，回国的路上也有被感染的可能。
Even when not infected in Seoul, there is a risk of infection on the way home.
韩一敏说：“飞机上也危险，大家都想跑，潜伏期的也想跑，空间还封闭，比外面更可怕。
"The plane is also dangerous, everyone wants to run, the latent period also wants to run, the space is still closed, more terrible than outside," said Han.
”2月27日，韩一敏买了很多食物放在冰箱，准备像国内普通人一样“宅”在家里。
On February 27, Han Yimin bought a lot of food and put it in the refrigerator, ready to "house" like ordinary people in China.
韩一敏在首尔购置的食物。
Han Yimin bought food in Seoul.
3月1日，载有57名中国籍旅客、22名韩国籍旅客的CA440航班由首尔抵达重庆，经入境检疫，4名旅客出现发热症状，随后被送到该市渝北区定点医院进一步诊断治疗。
On March 1, flight CA440, carrying 57 passengers of Chinese nationality and 22 passengers of Korean nationality, arrived in Chongqing from Seoul. As a result of quarantine, four passengers developed fever and were taken to Yubei District Hospital in the city for further diagnostic treatment.
所幸的是，经核酸检测，4名旅客未感染新冠肺炎。
Fortunately, after nucleic acid tests, the four passengers did not contract New Crown Pneumonia.
CA440航班是韩一敏每次回家乘坐的航班。
Flight CA440 is a flight for Han Yimin every time he goes home.
看到上述消息，韩一敏还在庆幸自己没回去。
See afore-mentioned news, Han Yimin still is glad oneself did not go back.
但仅过了一天，韩一敏就被“打脸”：由于没买到直达的机票，她只能选择3月6日从北京中转回重庆。
But only a day later, Han Yimin was "beaten": she had to switch back to Chongqing from Beijing on March 6 because she did not get a direct ticket.
韩一敏说，促使她改变想法的是她姨妈说“你的命不是你一个人的”。
Han Yimin said it was her aunt who made her change her mind when she said, "Your life is not yours alone."
此外，她没有韩国的国民医保，也不清楚新冠肺炎在韩治疗的程序和费用，“想想还是回国更安心”。
She also has no NHI in South Korea and is unclear about the procedure and cost of treatment in South Korea. "It's easier to think about going home."
在与家人商量后，韩一敏决定回国。
After discussing it with his family, Han decided to return home.
订机票前，韩一敏的父亲将其女儿准备回国一事报告给了所在街道办事处和辖区派出所。
Before booking the plane ticket, Han Yimin's father reported his daughter to the street office and the district police station.
出发前，韩一敏已把3月份的房租打给房东，把家里的新鲜蔬菜送人、把生活垃圾处理完、把养的猫安顿好。
Before setting out, Han Yimin had called the landlord for the March rent, given away the family's fresh vegetables, disposed of the household garbage and settled the cat.
下飞机后被送至指定酒店隔离观察3月6日，韩一敏穿上了防护服、戴上了护目镜和口罩。
Getting off the plane was taken to a designated hotel to observe March 6, Han Yimin put on protective clothing, goggles and masks.
除了检查时必须要摘掉护目镜和口罩外，韩一敏始终保持“全副武装”。
Besides having to remove goggles and face masks during inspections, Han Yimin has always been "heavily armed."
在从首尔飞往北京的飞机上，韩一敏填了出/入境健康申明卡等表格。
On a flight from Seoul to Beijing, Han Yimin filled out forms such as exit / entry health declaration cards.
“我一下飞机就觉得挺安心的。
"I felt quite at ease when I got off the plane.
”韩一敏说，国内的防疫措施做得很到位，机场工作人员基本都穿上了防护服，消毒水的味道也很明显。
Han Yimin said the domestic anti-epidemic measures were in place, airport staff were basically wearing protective clothing, the smell of disinfectant is also obvious.
北京飞往重庆的航班同样很严格。
Beijing's flights to Chongqing are also strict.
韩一敏回忆，她值机时就被要求填写健康报告表。
Ms. Han recalls being asked to fill out a health report form when she was on the plane.
得知韩一敏刚从境外回来，空乘将她一个人安排在了飞机最后一排。
Knowing that Han Yimin had just returned from abroad, the flight attendant arranged her alone in the back row of the plane.
到达重庆江北机场后，空乘先安排其他旅客下机，最后再安排韩一敏和一名韩国籍旅客下机。
After arriving at Chongqing Jiangbei Airport, the flight attendants arranged for other passengers to disembark, and finally arranged for Han Yimin and a Korean passenger to disembark.
两人下机前，还被测量了体温。
The two men were also taken temperature before getting off the plane.
韩一敏说，重庆的防控措施也做得很到位，从她下机到被拉到指定的酒店观察，一路都有医护人员、民警或政府工作人员陪同一起。
Ms. Han says control measures are in place in Chongqing, where she gets off the plane and is taken to designated hotels, all the way with medical staff, police or government staff.
6日当天，她被测量了5-10次体温。
On June 6, she was taken five to 10 times.
韩一敏到酒店房间已是7日凌晨，旅途中没怎么吃东西的她点了一份外卖。
Han Yimin arrived in her hotel room in the early hours of the 7th, and ordered a takeaway from her, who had little to eat on her trip.
由于韩一敏被禁止擅自离开房间，骑手将外卖送至酒店大堂后，由工作人员代为送到韩一敏所在房间。
As Han Yimin was forbidden to leave the room without permission, the rider would take it out to the lobby and have the staff deliver it to Han Yimin's room.
在重庆渝北隔离观察期间，韩一敏被要求不能离开房间。
During Yubei isolation observation in Chongqing, Han Yimin was asked not to leave the room.
“住宿环境和食物都挺不错的，都是免费。
"The accommodation and the food are good and free of charge.
”韩一敏发给澎湃新闻的图片显示，酒店提供的早餐包含鸡蛋、面包、牛奶和粥，午餐包括鱼、回锅肉、花菜和汤。
A picture from Han Yimin of the surging news shows breakfast at the hotel including eggs, bread, milk and porridge and lunch including fish, pork, cauliflower and soup.
观察期间，韩一敏还闹过一次“乌龙”。
During the observation period, Han Yimin also made a scene of "Oolong."
因将插有国内电话卡的手机调成静音，韩一敏没听到辖区派出所民警给她打来的电话，于是韩一敏的母亲打微信电话询问其为何不配合派出所工作，为何有抵抗情绪。
Han Yimin didn't hear the phone call from the police station in the district because of the mute tone of the mobile phone with the domestic phone card, so Han Yimin's mother phoned to ask why she did not cooperate with the police station and why there was resistance.
韩一敏说：“我真的一点也不抵抗，这种‘神仙’日子有什么好抵抗的。
"I really don't resist at all," said Han. "There's nothing to resist on this' immortal 'day.
”在指定酒店观察一天半后，韩一敏填写了承诺书，被准许回到潼南区。
After observing a day and a half at a designated hotel, Han Yimin filled out a statement of commitment and was allowed back to Tongnan.
其间，工作人员给韩一敏做了核酸检测，检测结果为阴性。
In the meantime, the staff to Han Yimin did nucleic acid test, the test results are negative.
按照要求，韩一敏回到潼南后不能回家，她还要在指定的酒店继续隔离观察14天。
As required, Han Yimin could not return home to Tongnan and remained in quarantine at the designated hotel for another 14 days.
此外，在从渝北区指定酒店到达潼南区指定酒店途中，韩一敏不能下车。
In addition, Han Yimin can't get off the train when he arrives at the appointed hotel in Tongnan District from Yubei District.
3月9日，工作人员给韩一敏做了其回国后的第二次核酸检测，结果仍为阴性。
On March 9, workers gave Han Yimin a second nucleic acid test after his return, but the results remain negative.
韩一敏表示，她会服从管理，不给别人添麻烦。
Ms. Han says she will obey the rules and not cause problems for others.
韩一敏的韩国朋友曾问过她，为何这个时候还回国。
Han Yimin's Korean friends asked her why she was back home at the time.
她回答说：“因为我们的治愈率很高，而且我们有强制执行隔离的措施，我觉得很有安全感。
"I feel safe because we have a high cure rate and we have enforcement measures in place," she said.
”韩一敏仍在隔离观察中。
Han Yimin is still being watched in isolation.
本期编辑邢潭推荐阅读。
This issue editor Xingtan recommended reading.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
留学韩国的中国学生：为什么我选择回国。
Chinese students studying in Korea: Why did I choose to return home?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "留学韩国的中国学生：为什么我选择回国";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Chinese students studying in South Korea: Why did I choose to return to my country?;
var msg_desc = "国内有强制隔离措施，觉得有安全感";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '71岁危重患者想放弃，医生做了个大胆的决定',。
At 71, a critically ill person who wanted to give up, the doctor made a bold decision to service.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '团聚了，但句号没有划上',。
Rendezvous with AT & apos; but not with & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '山东监狱管理局原副局长等被立案侦查并采取强制措施',。
At the time of its service, Shandong Prison Administration's former deputy director was investigated and took coercive measures against it.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
