出院2个多小时，她“复阳”了。
After being discharged from hospital for more than 2 hours, she "Fuyang".
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
实习生 刘昱秀 澎湃新闻记者 朱莹2月17日，是徐嘉（化名）出院的日子，也是她入院的日子。
Intern Liu Yu-Pai Peng Ying Zhu Ying February 17, is Xu Jia (alias) discharged from the hospital, but also the date of her admission.
这天下午，在连续两次新冠病毒核酸检测为阴性后，她从武汉客厅方舱医院出院。
That afternoon, she was discharged from Wuhan Living Room Hospital after testing negative for two consecutive new crown nucleic acid tests.
回家后，吃完母亲煮的羊肉火锅、洗了个澡，还没来得及好好睡上一觉，电话响起——她出院前一天做的第三次核酸检测出结果了，阳性。
After returning home, she ate her mother's mutton hot pot, took a bath, and before she could get a good night's sleep, the phone rang - her third nucleic acid test, done the day before she left the hospital, was positive.
于是，出院2个多小时后，她再度回到方舱医院。
So, more than two hours after she was discharged from the hospital, she returned to the cabin hospital.
截至3月10日10时，全国累计80924人确诊感染新冠肺炎，其中59982人治愈出院。
As at 1000 hours on March 10, a total of 80,924 people nationwide had been diagnosed with pneumonia, of whom 59982 had been cured.
2月以来，国内多地出现患者出院后核酸检测复查呈阳性的现象（以下简称“复阳”）。
Since February, many patients in the country after discharge from the positive nucleic acid testing review phenomenon (hereinafter referred to as "Fuyang").
在江苏徐州，两位患者出院后，小区居民以鲜花相迎，不料两天后，两人核酸复查为阳性，再度入院，小区也被封。
In Xuzhou, Jiangsu, two patients were discharged from the hospital, residents of the community to meet with flowers, but two days later, the two nucleic acid review for positive, re-admission, the community was sealed.
在天津，一名患者出院16天后复查阳性，再次入院，两次核酸均转为阴性，3天后出院。
In Tianjin, 16 days after discharge from hospital, a patient was re-examined positive, re-admission, two nucleic acids were negative, three days after discharge from hospital.
在广东，14%的出院患者出现“复阳”——广东省疾控中心副主任宋铁2月25日在发布会上通报这一数据。
In Guangdong, 14 percent of patients discharged from hospital have "Fuyang," vice-director of Guangdong's CDC, Song Tiefei, told a news conference on Feb. 25.
徐州新冠肺炎患者王先生2月24日解除隔离回家时，受到小区居民的欢迎。
Xuzhou new crown pneumonia patient Wang Feb 24 when the isolation home, by the residents of the community welcome.
两天后他复检测出核酸阳性。
Two days later he tested positive for nucleic acid.
视频截图武汉多家定点医院的医生告诉澎湃新闻，相当一部分“复阳”患者实则是核酸检测误差引起的“假阴性”，此外，患者体内病毒未完全清除，出院后免疫力下降，都可能导致“复阳”。
Video screenshots of Wuhan Ding Hospital doctors told surging news, quite a number of "Fuyang" patients are actually nucleic acid detection errors caused by "false negative," but also the patients have not completely eliminated the virus, after the discharge from the immune system, may lead to "Fuyang.
亦有数位受访专家表示，有患者始终无法产生抗体，导致多次“复阳”。
Several experts interviewed said patients have been unable to produce antibodies, leading to multiple "Fuyang."
而“新冠”也不排除发展成慢性携带的可能，这样它的致病性也会变弱。
And the "new crown" does not rule out the development of chronic portability, so its pathogenicity will be weakened.
3月初发布的第七版新冠肺炎诊疗方案增加了抗体检测，用于确诊和疑似病例排查。
The seventh edition of the New Crown Pneumonia diagnosis and treatment programme, released in early March, added antibody testing for diagnosis and suspected case screening.
多位一线医生建议将其纳入出院标准，以减少“复阳”。
Several frontline doctors have suggested that they be included in the discharge criteria to reduce "Fuyang."
也有受访医生提议，对出院标准中的肺部影像指标进行量化，进一步减少误判。
Physicians interviewed also proposed to quantify lung imaging in discharge criteria to further reduce miscarriages of justice.
“监测发现，复阳患者没有再发生传染别人的现象。
"The surveillance found that there was no further transmission from the Fuyang patients.
”国家卫健委医政医管局监察专员郭燕红2月28日表示，对新冠病毒的致病机理、疾病全貌和病程特点，还有待加深认识。
"The pathogenesis, disease profile and course characteristics of the new crown virus have yet to be further understood," Guo Yanhong, an inspector in the National Hospital Authority, said on February 28.
“复阳”谜局徐嘉至今想不明白，病毒是怎么找上她的。
"Fuyang" puzzle Xu Jia still do not understand, how the virus found her.
感到不适是在1月22日。
Feeling sick was on January 22.
她先是乏力、咳嗽，之后开始发热，去武汉天佑医院做了CT，显示右下肺少许感染，医生开药后让她回家隔离。
She first tired, cough, and then began to fever, Wuhan Tianyou Hospital to do a CT, showing a small infection in the lower right lung, the doctor ordered her home isolation.
4天后复查，病情加重，变成了双肺感染，部分呈磨玻璃样改变。
After 4 days of reexamination, the disease was aggravated into two lung infections, part of the ground glass-like changes.
她开始到医院排队输液、预约核酸检测。
She began queuing for infusions and making appointments for nucleic acid tests.
2月7日，因核酸检测阳性，她住进了武汉客厅方舱医院。
On February 7, due to nucleic acid positive, she was admitted to Wuhan living room cabin hospital.
在方舱医院里，徐嘉眼见着病友们从病恹恹变得乐观，精神状态越来越好。
In the square cabin hospital, Xu Jia saw the sick people change from sickly to optimistic, the spirit is getting better and better.
有人追热门剧，有人跟着护士跳广场舞，大家相互鼓励、打气，让她觉得温暖。
There were hot dramas, people dancing in the square with the nurses, and everyone encouraged and cheered her up and made her feel warm.
住院后，徐嘉做了两次核酸检测，都是阴性。
After being hospitalized, Xu Jia took two nucleic acid tests, both negative.
2月16日做了第三次。
A third was held on 16 February.
当天，主治医师和她视频面诊，说她两次核酸阴性、肺部炎症明显吸收，加上连续几天没有发烧，符合第五版诊疗方案中的出院标准。
On the same day, the attending physician and her video interview, said that she had two negative nucleic acid, significant absorption of inflammation of the lung, and a few days without fever, met the discharge criteria of the fifth edition of the protocol.
她又惊又喜。
She was surprised and pleased.
2月17日，徐嘉和病友、护士话别，还在朋友圈晒出一张和护士的合照，照片里，她笑容灿烂。
Xu Jia said goodbye to her sick friend and nurse on Feb. 17, and a photo of her smiling friend in a photo with a nurse.
没想到，出院2个多小时后，她被告知第三次核酸为阳性，要马上回医院。
Unexpectedly, more than two hours after discharge from the hospital, she was told that the third nucleic acid positive, immediately back to the hospital.
护士见她回来了，说：“真不知道欢迎还是不欢迎你……”她一夜难眠。
When the nurse saw her coming back, she said, "I don't know if you're welcome or not..." She slept through the night.
第二天做了第四次核酸检测，心里祈祷着上次阳性只是意外，但她很快失望了。
The next day she had a fourth nucleic acid test, praying that her previous positive test had been an accident, but she was quickly disappointed.
而家人原本居家隔离，只差2天观察期满，因她这次短暂的出院，都被送到学校重新隔离14天。
Her family, who had been isolated at home for only two days, were sent to school to be re-isolated for 14 days because of her brief discharge from the hospital.
徐嘉自己也开始感觉不适，头晕乏力，高烧，几天后转到金银潭医院。
Xu Jia himself began to feel uncomfortable, dizziness and fatigue, high fever, a few days later transferred to the gold and silver pool hospital.
好在输液后，病情得到控制。
Fortunately, after the infusion, the disease was controlled.
3月5日，徐嘉第二次出院。
Xu Jia was discharged for the second time on March 5.
这次，她没有回家，而是被送到一所学校的隔离点观察——这是3月4日国家卫健委发布的《新冠肺炎诊疗方案（试行第七版）》中的增补要求。
This time, instead of going home, she was sent to an isolated school for observation - a supplement to the "New Crown Pneumonia Diagnosis and Treatment Program (Trial Edition 7)," released on March 4 by the National Institutes of Health.
2月19日发布的第六版诊疗方案首次提出，患者出院后建议进行14天“自我健康状况监测”，出院第2周、第4周到医院复诊，而第七版强化为14天“隔离管理和健康状况监测”。
The sixth edition, released on February 19, proposes 14 days of "self-health monitoring" after discharge, two weeks after discharge from hospital and four weeks after discharge, while the seventh edition is enhanced to 14 days of "isolation and health monitoring."
这一变化，源于国内多地出现的复阳现象。
This change originates from the phenomenon of reyang in many parts of the country.
受访专家认为，所谓“复阳”人群中相当一部分是“假阴性”，患者体内病毒并未清除，只是出院前核酸检测未检出。
Experts interviewed said a significant proportion of the so-called "Fuyang" people are "false negative", the virus has not been removed from the body, only before the release of nucleic acid detection has not been detected.
中央赴湖北指导组专家组成员童朝晖也在接受央视采访时表示，复阳跟检测核酸不太稳定有关，有试剂盒的问题，也有采样的问题，全国复阳比例大概为0.1%，在可控范围之内。
In an interview with CCTV, Tong Chaohui, a member of the expert group from the central government to Hubei, said Fuyang was involved in detecting nucleic acids.
此外，“复阳”也可能是体内检测出病毒片段或者死病毒，“这不代表患者尚未治愈或病情反复。
In addition, Fuyang may also be a viral fragment detected in the body or a dead virus. "This does not mean that the patient has not been cured or has relapsed.
”武汉同济医院感染科副主任郭威告诉澎湃新闻，目前已知的复阳患者很少有症状，“复发”是极少数。
Guo Wei, deputy director of infection at Wuhan Tongji Hospital, told Peng Pai news that few patients with Fuyang are known to have symptoms and that "relapse" is rare.
武汉大学中南医院重症医学科主任彭志勇发现，复阳患者的共性之一是，出院时肺部好转、基本正常，但免疫系统被病毒侵害后未完全恢复，淋巴细胞的数量、绝对值等比正常水平低20%-30%，导致病毒“又起来了”。
Peng Zhiyong, director of severe medicine at Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital, found that one of the commonalities among patients with Fuyang was that their lungs were better and more or less normal when they were discharged.
该院影像科主任徐海波也认为，复阳与患者的免疫力相关。
Xu Haibo, director of the hospital's imaging department, agrees that Fuyang is linked to patients' immunity.
影像科副主任张笑春向澎湃新闻补充说，免疫力下降容易出现病情反复，体内病毒量再次增加，但复阳现象的病理机制还有待论证。
Zhang Xiaochun, deputy director of the imaging department, added to Peng Pai news that immunity is prone to repeated disease, virulence in vivo increased again, but the pathologic mechanism of Fuyang phenomenon has yet to be demonstrated.
溯源“假阴性”核酸检测一直被视为新冠肺炎确诊和出院的主要标准。
Traceable "false-negative" nucleic acid testing has been regarded as the main criteria for the diagnosis and discharge of new crown pneumonia.
采样方式包括咽拭子、肛拭子、痰和支气管肺泡灌洗液等。
Sampling methods include pharyngeal swab, anal wipe, sputum and bronchial alveolar lavage.
最常用的是咽拭子，包括鼻咽拭子、口咽拭子。
The most commonly used swabs are swabs, including swabs and swabs.
采口咽拭子是将棉签伸到患者咽喉深处提取分泌物，采集过程中，患者易出现咳嗽、呕吐反应，采集难度比较大。
The mouth pharynx swab is to extend the cotton swab into the throat of the patient to extract secretions. During the collection process, the patient is prone to cough and vomiting, and it is difficult to collect.
钟南山团队与沈阳自动化研究所团队合作，在病区进行机器人试验。
Zhong Nan Shan team and Shenyang Automation Research Institute team, in the sick area to carry out robotic experiments.
3月8日，团队首次为确诊阳性病人进行机器人咽拭子采样试验。
On 8 March, the team conducted its first robotic swabs test for positive patients.
采鼻咽拭子则需要深入鼻腔深处，受人为干扰比较小，能获得更足量的标本，但患者会不太舒适，甚至鼻腔出血。
Nasopharyngeal swabs need to go deeper into the nasal cavity, be less disturbed by human intervention, and obtain more specimens, but the patient will be uncomfortable, even bleeding from the nasal cavity.
武汉大学人民医院检验科主任李艳介绍，新冠病毒主要位于肺、气管、支气管等下呼吸道部位，而鼻咽和口咽在上呼吸道。
Li Yan, director of the examination department at Wuhan University's People's Hospital, said the virus was mainly found in the lower respiratory tract, such as lungs, trachea and bronchi, while the nasopharynx and oropharynx were in the upper respiratory tract.
发病早期上呼吸道有一些病毒，晚期比较少，鼻咽可能有病毒残留，但不一定能采到。
Early onset of the upper respiratory tract has some viruses, late relatively few, nasopharynx may have virus residue, but may not be able to pick.
武汉同济医院感染科副主任郭威告诉澎湃新闻，根据临床观察，鼻咽拭子阳性率稍高于口咽拭子，因此他所在的医院倾向于采鼻咽拭子，但也会考虑患者的需求。
Wuhan Tongji Hospital, deputy director of the infection department told Peng Pai news, according to clinical observation, nasopharyngeal swab rate slightly higher than swabs, so his hospital tends to pick nose and pharynx swab, but will also consider patients' needs.
多位临床医生介绍，患者病毒载量的多少、病毒分布位置，试剂盒质量、采样操作方法、样本质量、检测、技术人员水平等，都会影响核酸检测结果。
The number of viral load, viral distribution, kit quality, sampling operation methods, sample quality, testing and technician level will all influence nucleic acid test results, a number of clinicians said.
中国医学科学院院长王辰院士2月5日接受央视采访时提到，核酸检测只有30%-50%的阳性率，有很多假阴性的新冠病人，临床症状严重，核酸检测却没检测出来。
In an interview with CCTV on Feb. 5, academician Wang Chen, dean of the Chinese Academy of Medicine, said only 30-50 percent of the patients tested positive for nucleic acid.
44位连续两次核酸阴性的医护感染者中，26人第三次核酸转为阳性——这是武汉大学人民医院呼吸与危重症医学科医生张旃的研究发现。
Of the 44 Nucleic Acid-negative patients treated twice in a row, 26 had their third nucleic acid positive - a finding by Chandrake Chang, a physician at Wuhan University's People's Hospital for Respiratory and Critical Medicine.
张旃认为，这可能是试剂盒问题导致假阴性，或是病人在好转过程中，病毒载量下降，出现间断排毒的情况，可能造成间断期阴性、排毒时阳性的结果。
Chandrags suggested that this might have been due to problems with the kit, or that the patient had a reduced viral load and intermittent detoxification during the improvement process, which could have resulted in negative discontinuities and positive results in detoxification.
为此，她建议，连续三次核酸阴性才能出院。
To that end, she suggested that three consecutive negative nucleic acids be discharged.
武汉一家定点医院的神经内科医生王伟（化名）发现，只采一个部位的咽拭子，很容易出现假阴性。
Wuhan, a designated hospital neurologist Wang Wei (alias) found that only a part of the pharynx swab, easy to appear false negative.
他遇到过一个病人，查了12次咽拭子，都是阴性，第13次查尿液，变成了阳性。
He met a patient, checked swabs 12 times, all negative, the 13th urine examination, became positive.
为提高诊断精度，第六版诊疗方案中，核酸检测增加了“痰、鼻咽拭子等”呼吸道标本，建议尽可能留取痰液。
To improve the accuracy of diagnosis, the sixth version of the diagnosis and treatment program, nucleic acid detection increased "sputum, nasopharyngeal swab and other respiratory specimens," recommended as far as possible to retain sputum.
第七版诊疗方案中，强调做核酸检测，下呼吸道标本（痰或气道抽取物）更准确。
The seventh edition of the programme emphasizes nucleic acid testing, and lower respiratory specimens (sputum or airway extracts) are more accurate.
王伟告诉澎湃新闻，他所在医院“前期口咽做的多，现在口咽、尿液、痰液都要做”。
Wang told Peng Pai News that his hospital "did a lot of oral pharynx, now oral pharynx, urine, sputum to do."
据了解，一些医院还通过连续多次采样，采肛拭子（粪便），使用不同批次的试剂盒等方式，提高核酸检测准确性。
It is known that some hospitals also improve the accuracy of nucleic acid detection by sampling anus swab (faeces) and using different batches of kit.
张笑春解释，核酸检测需要病毒达到基本量才能测出来，相比上呼吸道，下呼吸道中的病毒含量更高，因此不管检测几次，从上呼吸道取样都可能出现假阴性。
Zhang explained that nucleic acid testing requires a basic amount of virus to be detected, and that lower respiratory tract viruses are higher than the upper respiratory tract, so sampling from the upper respiratory tract can be false-negative no matter how many tests are made.
此外，有的患者上呼吸道的病毒量高，有的患者消化道的病毒量高，采样部位不同，核酸检测的结果也可能不同。
In addition, some patients have a high viral load in the upper respiratory tract, others have a high viral load in the digestive tract, and different sampling sites may have different nucleic acid test results.
郭威建议，在国家诊疗方案的基础上，各地应该依据自身医疗资源、病患情况，灵活应对。
Guo suggested that, on the basis of the national diagnosis and treatment plan, all localities should respond flexibly according to their own medical resources and patients' conditions.
一些复阳率高的地区，两次咽拭子之外，可以再增加肛拭子检测，三次为阴性才能出院。
In some areas with high reactivation rates, two swabs can be added to the anal swab test, three negative before discharge.
出院标准争议核酸检测外，肺部影像是另一项重要的出院指标。
In addition to the controversial nucleic acid test, lung imaging is another important discharge indicator.
此前的诊疗标准中要求，患者出院前，肺部炎症“明显吸收”——第六版和第七版调整为“急性渗出性病变明显改善”。
Previous standards required significant absorption of inflammation in the lungs before discharge - the sixth and seventh editions were adjusted to read "significant improvement in acute exudative lesions."
“明显吸收，是指吸收到什么程度？”武汉大学人民医院一名放射科医生告诉澎湃新闻，不同的人吸收肺部炎症的能力不同，有的人需要很长时间。
"Apparent absorption, refers to the degree of absorption?" Wuhan University People's Hospital, a radiologist told the roar news, different people have different ability to absorb lung inflammation, some take a long time.
没有客观标准和量化指标，诊断就主要靠医生的经验。
In the absence of objective criteria and quantitative indicators, the diagnosis is largely based on the experience of doctors.
王伟透露，他所在医院2月份床位紧张，为加快周转、提高收治能力，病人只要达到出院标准，都被放出院了。
Wang Wei said his hospital bed in February was tight, to speed up turnover, improve treatment capacity, patients as long as the discharge criteria, were released from the hospital.
“你不让他出院，其他的患者谁来救助？需要多方面权衡。
"You don't let him out of the hospital, other patients who come to the rescue? It's a trade-off.
”一位受访医生对澎湃新闻说，早期患者多，诊疗标准中“明显吸收”“明显改善”给予医生一定的灵活性。
One doctor interviewed told the roar news that there were many early sufferers and that the "obvious absorption" and "significant improvement" in the standard of care gave doctors some flexibility.
但王伟发现，他所在医院的患者出院时，有的还在吸氧、走路都费劲，有的症状很明显、需要治疗，有的患者肺部在他看来没有明显好转。
But Wang found that some of his patients were still breathing oxygen and walking hard when they were discharged from the hospital. Some had obvious symptoms and needed treatment.
“出院标准太宽泛了。
"The discharge criteria are too broad.
”他觉得。
'he thought.
这就导致，有的出院病人的临床症状比新入院的轻症病人还要重。
As a result, some patients discharged from the hospital have more serious clinical symptoms than newly admitted light patients.
若他们出院前的核酸检测为“假阴性”，“复阳”的风险会很大。
If they were tested for "false-negative" nucleic acids before discharge, the risk of "fuyang" would be high.
王伟接诊过从其他定点医院出院的病人，由于“没完全好就被放出去了”，出院后症状加重，再次入院。
Wang Wei treated patients discharged from other designated hospitals and was released "because of incomplete recovery." He was hospitalized with more serious symptoms.
不过，到2月下旬，病人减少，他们医院开始延长部分病人的住院时间。
By late February, however, the number of patients diminished and their hospitals began to extend the stay of some patients.
另一位受访医生表示，现在，他所在医院会让一些使用过激素、年龄大、恢复慢的病人晚点出院，多观察一段时间，避免出院后“复阳”。
Another doctor interviewed said his hospital would now have patients who had been hormonal, elderly or recovering slowly leave the hospital later to observe more to avoid the "fuyang" after discharge.
张笑春告诉记者，医院执行的标准比国家诊疗方案中的更细化。
Zhang Xiaochun told reporters that the hospital implementation of the standards than the national diagnosis and treatment programme in more detail.
以她所在的中南医院为例，现在要求患者急性炎症完全吸收、连续5次核酸阴性才能出院。
In her South China hospital, for example, patients are now required to fully absorb acute inflammation and leave the hospital five times in a row negative for nucleic acids.
据《南方周末》报道，广东省为了方便一线医生衡量和判断肺部情况，将出院标准中规定的肺部炎症“明显吸收”量化为至少恢复50%。
In order to facilitate front-line doctors to measure and judge lung conditions, Guangdong province has quantified the "significant absorption" of inflammation in the lungs set out in discharge standards as at least 50 per cent, Southern Weekend reported.
但张笑春认为，影像上不好定量，每个人体质不同，有的肺部病变恢复50%，不会出问题，有的恢复90%也有可能还会反复，需要结合其他指标综合判断。
But Zhang believes that the image is difficult to quantify, everyone physique is different, some lung lesion recovery 50%, will not be a problem, some recovery 90% may also be repeated, need to be combined with other indicators.
张笑春 人民日报客户端 图添加“抗体检测”3月4日发布的第七版诊疗标准中，首次加入了抗体检测。
Zhang Xiaochun People's Daily client map to add "antibody detection" March 4 issued in the seventh edition of the standard diagnosis and treatment, the first antibody testing.
确诊标准中新增：血清新冠病毒特异性IgM抗体和IgG抗体阳性；IgG抗体由阴性转为阳性或恢复期较急性期4倍及以上增高。
New criteria for diagnosis were added: positive serum IgM antibody and IgG antibody; increase of IgG antibody from negative to positive or 4 times higher than in acute phase.
疑似病例排除需满足：连续两次新冠病毒核酸检测阴性（采样时间至少间隔24小时），且发病7天后IgM和IgG抗体仍为阴性。
Suspected cases need to be eliminated: two consecutive Nucleic Acid (Nucleic Acid Testing) negative (at least 24 hours apart) and IgM and IgG antibodies remained negative seven days after onset.
患者感染病毒后，体内一般会产生IgM和IgG抗体。
Patients infected with the virus, the body will generally produce IgM and IgG antibodies.
IgM抗体是人体感染病毒后最早出现的抗体，一般感染后3-5天后产生，提示新近发生感染，可用于感染的早期诊断，疾病康复后很快消失。
IgM antibody is the earliest antibody after infection, usually 3-5 days after infection, suggesting a new infection, can be used for early diagnosis of infection, disease recovery soon after disappearance.
IgG抗体是具有保护性的抗体，感染病毒后2周开始产生，持续时间较长，有可能终生携带，表示已经感染过病毒。
The IgG antibody, a protective antibody, starts two weeks after infection, lasts longer and may carry for life, indicating that it has been infected with the virus.
IgG数值越高，表示抗体越多，对病毒的抵御能力越强。
The higher the IgG value, the more antibodies, the more resistant to the virus.
通过抗体检测可以判断体内是否出现了新冠病毒抗体。
Antibody detection can be used to determine whether or not a new crown virus antibody has appeared in the body.
武汉大学人民医院检验科主任李艳向澎湃新闻介绍，IgM和IgG抗体均为阴性，表示没有感染，或感染了未产生抗体；均为阳性，表示新近感染过，体内还有病毒；IgM是阴性、IgG是阳性，表示患者在康复期，已产生抗体，是最安全的。
Both IgM and IgG antibodies are negative, indicating no infection or infection with undeveloped antibodies; both are positive, indicating new infections and viruses in the body; IgM is negative and IgG is positive, indicating that the patient has developed antibodies during convalescence and is the safest.
李艳说，他们医院起初是被感染的医生做抗体检测的志愿者，每三天抽一次血，观察抗体检测的规律，医生们很愿意参加。
Li Yan said the hospital was initially an infected doctor doing antibody testing volunteers, smoking blood every three days to observe the rule of antibody testing, doctors are willing to participate.
评估结果也挺好，目前已经开始在入院病人的筛查中使用。
The results are also good and are now beginning to be used in screening hospitalized patients.
与核酸检测相比，抗体检测采样方便，只需抽血，十几分钟出结果；而且，只要血液中有病毒，就可以检测出来，受其他因素的干扰比较小，可以弥补核酸检测的不足，对病人免疫力的评估和诊断都有帮助。
Compared with nucleic acid testing, antibody detection is easy to sample, only to extract blood, ten minutes of the results; moreover, as long as there is a virus in the blood, can be detected, less interference from other factors, can make up for the deficiency of nucleic acid testing, and help in the assessment and diagnosis of patients immunity.
一些医院也开始对出院患者使用抗体检测，避免核酸假阴性现象。
Some hospitals have also begun to use antibody tests for patients discharged from hospitals to avoid false-negative nucleic acids.
3月3日，武汉市江岸方舱医院接到市防疫指挥部通知，为减少病情复发，达到“零回头”目标，将对所有拟出院患者抽血加做病毒抗体检测，确保病人完全康复出院。
On March 3, the Jiangbang Hospital of Wuhan City was informed by the Municipal Anti-epidemic Command that, in order to reduce the recurrence of the disease and reach the goal of "zero-return," all hospital patients will be drawn up with virus antibody testing to ensure that the patients fully recover and leave hospital.
李艳解释，IgG大于IgM数值的4倍，说明患者产生了很强的抗体，恢复得非常好，再加上两次核酸阴性，“（出院）一点问题没有。
Li Yan explained that the IgG was four times larger than the IgM, suggesting that the patient had developed strong antibodies, recovered very well, and had two nucleic acid-negative reactions.
”对部分复阳患者做抗体检测后，李艳发现，他们基本都有抗体，但数值不高，免疫力相对较弱。
After testing some of the Fuyang patients for antibodies, Li Yan found that they basically have antibodies, but the number is not high, immunity is relatively weak.
“现在到了疫情中晚期，隐性感染过的病人应该已经产生抗体了，可以对新入院病人都做抗体检测，排查一下。
"Now in the middle and late stages of the epidemic, the recessive infections of patients should have produced antibodies, new patients can be tested for antibodies, screening.
”李艳建议。
"suggested Li Yan.
张笑春也建议，抗体检测的敏感性达到了核酸检测敏感性的前提下，可以将抗体检测纳入出院标准，但是不能要求必须满足抗体检测阳性的标准，因为有少数患者可能无法产生抗体。
Zhang also suggested that the sensitivity of antibody detection reached the sensitivity of nucleic acid detection, antibody detection can be included in the discharge criteria, but must not be required to meet the criteria for antibody testing, as a small number of patients may not be able to produce antibodies.
她认为，加上抗体检测后，5条出院标准中患者满足4条，就可以出院。
Together with the antibody test, she said, four of the five discharge criteria were met for patients to be released from the hospital.
不过，目前抗体检测技术尚未成熟，试剂盒刚研制出来不久，还有待改进。
However, the antibody detection technology is not mature, the kit has just been developed, there is still room for improvement.
此外，每个人产生抗体的时间、数量不同，诊疗方案中很难给出绝对的答案。
In addition, each person produces antibodies at different times, the number of diagnosis and treatment programmes is difficult to give an absolute answer.
慢性携带的可能“复阳”有无可能是患者出院后被二次感染？香港大学李嘉诚医学院生物医学学院教授金冬雁在接受《财经》采访时说，康复者马上再感染，有违病毒学和免疫学基本原理。
Is it possible that patients with chronic reinfection will be re-infected after discharge? Jin Dongyan, a professor at the School of Biomedical Sciences at the Li Ka Shing Medical School of the University of Hong Kong, told Caijing that an immediate re-infection is contrary to the principles of virology and immunology.
人体对抗病毒靠免疫反应，免疫反应产生后再遇到病毒会被激发，不会在短时间内迅速消退。
The human body depends on the immune response to the virus, immune response after the emergence of the virus will be activated, not quickly subside.
至少6个月、一年内不会再受感染。
At least 6 months, no more infections within a year.
“从SARS的经验来看，绝大数人都能产生抗体，可以持续一段时间，但不排除有的人出院时还没产生抗体，出院之后病情反复。
"In SARS experience, most people can produce antibodies that can last for a while, but it's not ruled out that some people leave the hospital without antibodies, and then go back and forth.
”郭威向澎湃新闻分析。
"Guo Wei to the news analysis.
个人年龄、饮食习惯、睡眠、身体状况等会影响免疫力，进而影响抗体的产生。
Individual age, dietary habits, sleep, physical condition and so on can affect immunity, which in turn affect the production of antibodies.
医生往往会建议病人吃鸡蛋、喝牛奶，补充维生素、高质量蛋白质，提高免疫力。
Doctors often advise patients to eat eggs, milk, vitamin supplements, high-quality protein, improve immunity.
但李艳发现，有的病人临床恢复得很好，5次核酸都是阳性，就是不产生抗体。
But Li Yan found that some patients made good clinical recovery, five times nucleic acids are positive, or do not produce antibodies.
她的一位同事，50多岁，和妻子都感染一个月了，核酸检测为阳性，没有临床症状，肺部只有很少阴影，一直没有测出抗体。
One of her colleagues, in her fifties and wife, had been infected for a month, had tested positive for nucleic acid, had no clinical symptoms, had few shadows in the lungs and had not detected antibodies.
两人每天吃10粒维生素、补充高蛋白营养，年纪轻一些的妻子终于出现抗体了，但同事自己还没有。
The two took 10 vitamins a day, added high-protein nutrients, and the younger wife eventually developed antibodies, but the colleagues themselves did not.
“这个病毒有点诡异，有人不产生抗体，但会发病；也有人不产生抗体，但无任何临床症状。
"The virus is a bit weird. Some people don't produce antibodies, but they do; others don't produce antibodies, but there are no clinical symptoms.
”李艳说，病人如果其他指标都符合出院标准，但是不产生抗体，现在也不会让他出院。
Li Yan said the patient would not be released from the hospital if all other criteria met the criteria for discharge but did not produce antibodies.
张笑春同事的经历更波折。
Zhang Xiaochun's experience is even more varied.
这位同事30多岁，2月前感染了新冠病毒，住院一周左右，肺部炎症吸收干净，两次核酸检测阴性，无临床症状，出院了。
The co-worker, who was in his 30s, contracted the new crown virus before February, was hospitalized for about a week, his lungs were cleared of inflammation, he was tested negative for two nucleic acid tests, and he was discharged without clinical symptoms.
出院20天后，核酸复查为阳性，被送到隔离点隔离，期间也没有任何临床症状，几天后复查，转为了阴性。
Twenty days after discharge, the nucleic acid was reassessed as positive and placed in isolation, without any clinical symptoms, and was reviewed a few days later and turned negative.
等到14天隔离期快满时，复查又变成了阳性，“搞得大家很郁闷，不知道该怎么办。
When the 14-day isolation period came to an end, the review turned positive again. "We were depressed and didn't know what to do.
只能让他在隔离点住着，直到核酸连续为阴性，或者检测到抗体。
He could only be kept in isolation until nucleic acids were continuously negative or antibodies were detected.
”张笑春说，不产生抗体或者产生抗体比较晚的患者，出院后，一旦免疫力下降，无法抵御病毒，就容易出现病情反复，体内病毒量增加，这时候，再做核酸复查，很可能会复阳。
Patients who do not produce antibodies or produce antibodies relatively late are more likely to relapse once their immunity drops and they cannot resist the virus, Zhang said, adding that a second nucleic acid review is likely to reactivate the virus.
张笑春强调，病情反复不能算作“复发”，但“同一种病毒反复，也可能有传染性”。
Zhang Xiaochun stressed that the disease can not be repeated as a "relapse," but "the same virus repeatedly, may also be infectious."
为避免患者病情反复传染人，第六版和第七版诊疗方案中，均提出出院患者隔离，并进行健康监测。
In order to avoid repeated transmission of the patient's illness, the sixth and seventh editions of the programme provide for isolation of patients discharged from the hospital and health monitoring.
3月3日，北京大学和中科院的两位研究员在《国家科学评论》上发表论文，称新冠病毒已产生了149个突变点，并演化出两个亚型，两个亚型表现出很大的差异。
Two researchers from Peking University and the Chinese Academy of Sciences reported in the March 3 issue of the National Science Review that the new crown virus has produced 149 mutation sites and evolved into two subtypes that show great differences.
同一时间，《印度教徒报》报道，澳大利亚联邦科学与工业研究组织表示新冠病毒正在发生变异。
Meanwhile, the Hindus newspaper reported that the Australian Federal Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation said the new crown virus was mutating.
巴西研究人员也发现，国内2例确诊病例，一例与德国发现的病毒、一例与英国发现的病毒相似。
Brazilian researchers also found two confirmed cases in the country, one in Germany and one in the United Kingdom.
目前国内关于新冠病毒是否发生变异，尚无定论。
At present, there is no conclusion on whether the new crown virus mutates in China.
军队前方专家组组长、解放军总医院呼吸科专家刘又宁在央视节目中说，“从临床上来看，看不出病毒已经有变异了。
"Clinically, we can't see that the virus has changed," Liu Yuning, head of the army's forward team and breathing specialist at the PLA General Hospital, told CCTV
”郭威担心，现在有研究显示新冠病毒有两种型别，患者出院后，若体内抗体无法抵抗另一变异病毒的侵袭，可能会再次感染。
Now studies have shown that there are two types of new canopy viruses and that patients who leave hospital with antibodies unable to resist another variant of the virus may become reinfected.
此外，新冠病毒是否将发展成慢性携带病毒，也引人关注。
There is also concern about whether the new crown virus will develop into a chronic carrier of the virus.
2月19日，王辰院士接受《新闻1+1》采访时提到，SARS病毒的传播性和致病性都很强，不易存活和持续传播，因为它要是把宿主杀死了，它自己也不在了。
In an interview with News 1 + 1 on February 19, academician Wang Chen mentioned that the SARS virus is so contagious and pathogenic that it is not easy to survive and spread, because if it kills its host, it is no longer there.
新冠病毒有可能会转成慢性，像流感一样长期存在，“这种可能性是完全存在的，对此我们要做好准备。
The possibility that the new crown virus could become chronic and persist like the flu "is a real possibility, and we need to be prepared for it.
”张笑春持相同观点：新冠病毒可能会发展成慢性携带，像流感一样，和人类长期共存。
Zhang shares the view that the new crown virus could develop into a chronic carrier, like the flu, that can live with humans for a long time.
这样病毒的传染性会越来越强，致病能力越来越差，患者症状轻或者没什么症状。
In this way, the virus will become more infectious, the ability to cause disease will become worse, patients with mild symptoms or no symptoms.
但郭威认为，新冠病毒被慢性携带的可能性不高，不过可能会有少量病毒附着在患者的鼻咽、口咽黏膜上，一般不发病，也不侵犯呼吸道黏膜。
However, Guo said the virus is not likely to be carried in a chronic manner, although there may be a small number of viruses attached to the nasopharyngeal and oropharyngeal mucosa of the patient and generally do not develop disease or invade the respiratory mucosa.
另一位不愿具名的专家认为，不必过于恐慌新冠病毒慢性携带的可能性，以乙肝为例，全国1.2亿乙肝病毒携带者中，约90%的携带者不发病。
Another expert, who declined to be named, said there was no need to panic the possibility of chronic transmission of the new crown virus, which accounts for about 90 percent of the nation's 120 million hepatitis B carriers.
彭志勇觉得，病毒毒性越低，发展成慢性病的几率越高，“新冠病毒会不会变成慢性携带，现在（判断）还为时过早，有待观察。
The less toxic the virus, the more likely it is to develop a chronic disease, and it remains to be seen whether the new strain will become chronic, Pang said.
”聚焦“复阳”传染性“复阳”患者是否具有传染性，也是舆论聚焦的问题。
It is also a matter of public opinion to focus on whether patients with "Fuyang" infectious "Fuyang" are contagious. "
2月25日，在广州市政府新闻发布会上，广州市第八人民医院感染病中心ICU主任李粤平提到，从技术上，很难区分复阳患者体内是活病毒还是死病毒。
On Feb. 25, Li Yuping, director of ICU at the Infectious Disease Center of Guangzhou's Eighth People's Hospital, said it was technically difficult to tell whether a patient with Fuyang had a live or a dead virus.
不过他们的密切接触者全是阴性。
But their close contacts were all negative.
这说明，复阳患者暂未出现传染现象。
This shows that the Fuyang patients did not appear temporarily infectious phenomenon.
广州市第八人民医院感染感染病中心ICU主任李粤平。
Li Yuping, Director of ICU, Infection Infection Center, Eighth People's Hospital, Guangzhou.
南都记者 梁炜培 图针对患者复阳的情况，武汉大学中南医院影像科主任徐海波及其团队，对4名医护感染者进行研究，发现他们出院5到13天后核酸检测变为阳性；之后的4到5天内，做了3次核酸检测，都是阳性；换其他制造商的试剂盒再测一次，还是全部阳性。
Wu Han University's director of imaging department in Zhongnan Hospital, Xu Haibo, and his team studied four patients and found that they tested positive for nucleic acid five to 13 days after their discharge; three positive nucleic acid tests were done within four to five days; and all tested positive for another manufacturer's kit.
隔离期间，4人没有症状，肺部影像跟出院时一样，没和有呼吸道症状的人接触。
During isolation, the four men were asymptomatic and did not have contact with people with respiratory symptoms, as they did when they were discharged from hospital.
其中3人出院后居家隔离，家属没被感染。
Three of them were separated from their homes after discharge and their families were not infected.
由此，他认为，“一定比例的痊愈患者或许仍是病毒携带者。
As a result, he believes, "a certain percentage of recovered patients may still be carriers of the virus.
”这一研究成果2月27日在顶级医学期刊《美国医学协会杂志》上发表。
The study was published Feb. 27 in the Journal of the American Medical Association, the top medical journal.
徐海波告诉澎湃新闻，复阳现象的病理机制尚不清，复阳患者是否具有传染性还需研究论证，首先需要排除检测不到位，或不同质的检测，造成的“假阴性”情况。
Xu told Peng Pai news that the pathological mechanism of Fuyang phenomenon is not clear, whether the Fuyang patients are infectious or not needs to be demonstrated, first need to exclude detection is not in place, or different quality of testing, resulting in "false-negative" cases.
彭志勇遇到过的复阳患者，大多没什么临床症状，“其传染性还需要再观察，可能一段时间后才能有比较充分的结论。
Peng Zhiyong met the patients, most do not have clinical symptoms, "its infection needs to be observed again, it may be some time before a more adequate conclusion.
包括病人复阳之后会怎么样，也需要时间验证。
It also takes time to verify what will happen after resuscitation.
”郭威提示，患者出院后应做好防护，戴口罩，注意卫生习惯，家人也做好防护，以降低传染的可能性。
Guo said patients should be well protected from hospital, wearing masks, paying attention to hygiene practices, and protecting their families to reduce the likelihood of infection.
他认为，复阳患者体内可能残留病毒，但量不多，传染力也低一些，出院后到指定地点医学隔离14天，会进一步降低传染性。
In his view, patients with Fuyang may have residual viruses in their bodies, but in small quantities and with lower infectivity, and a 14-day medical isolation at a designated place after discharge would further reduce infectivity.
目前，第七版诊疗方案中，建议患者出院后第二周、第四周复诊。
At present, the seventh edition of the diagnosis and treatment programme, patients are advised to discharge the second week, the fourth week.
郭威建议，患者出院后的复查实行分层，恢复得好的年轻人，按国家标准执行；用过激素、危重、老年患者等可以出院后第一周就去复诊，以更早识别复阳或病情反复的患者。
Guo recommended that patients be re-examined in a stratified manner after discharge and that young people who are recovering well be treated according to national standards; patients with used hormones, critical illnesses and elderly patients can be referred back within the first week of discharge in order to identify resuscitation or recurrent cases earlier.
戳这里进入“全国新型冠状病毒感染病例实时地图”↓↓↓本期编辑邢潭推荐阅读。
Dell Computation here into Dell Computers Computation of Computers, Computers, Computers, Computers, Computers and Computers.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
出院2个多小时，她“复阳”了。
After being discharged from hospital for more than 2 hours, she "Fuyang".
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "出院2个多小时，她“复阳”了";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; more than two hours after she was discharged.
var msg_desc = "徐嘉至今想不明白，病毒是怎么找上她的。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Xu Jia still wonders how the virus found her.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '71岁危重患者想放弃，医生做了个大胆的决定',。
At 71, a critically ill person who wanted to give up, the doctor made a bold decision to service.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '山东监狱管理局原副局长等被立案侦查并采取强制措施',。
At the time of its service, Shandong Prison Administration's former deputy director was investigated and took coercive measures against it.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '团聚了，但句号没有划上',。
Rendezvous with AT & apos; but not with & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
