武汉定点医院一床难求，患者居家用衣柜隔离。
Wuhan Dingdian Hospital a bed difficult to access, patients with wardrobe isolation.
王飞翔。
Wang Flying.
剥洋葱people                      。
peel onions.
剥洋葱people。
peel onions.
剥开人物外壳，记录真实可感的生命。
Peel off the character's shell and record the real and palpable life.
新京报深度报道部出品。
Beijing News in-depth coverage of the Department.
。
.
马美莲看到，诊疗室床位都躺着患者，地上还躺着两个。
Ms. Ma found beds in the clinic full of patients and two on the floor.
最后，丈夫还是没能进入诊疗室。
Finally, the husband was still unable to enter the clinic.
1月30日中午，同济医院的医生给排队的患者扎针输液，这条队伍一直排到发热门诊大门口。
At noon on January 30, doctors at Tongji Hospital injected the queued patients until they reached the front door of the fever clinic.
文 |新京报记者 王飞翔编辑｜李明 校对|卢茜 吴兴发►本文约4008字，阅读全文约需8分钟没有床位，疑似感染病例陶汉新不得不在同济医院急诊科的过道上睡了4天，接受吸氧治疗。
Wang Flying Editor of the Beijing News, Wang Flying, proofread by Lucy Woo Fat, takes about eight minutes to read the full text. Suspected cases of infection, Tao Hanxin, have to sleep in the emergency department of Tongji Hospital for four days to receive oxygen therapy.
这条过道上，还摆着7张折叠床，“都是等床位的病例。
There were also seven folding beds in the hallway, "all waiting lists.
”  医院之外，林梅的家人疑似感染后居家隔离，因为不具备隔离条件，半个月内3名家人陆续出现感染症状。
Outside the hospital, Limmei's family is suspected of being isolated after the infection, with three families showing signs of infection in half a month because of the lack of isolation.
为解决发热门诊等候时间长、床位安排不及时等问题，武汉市在1月24日就开始实行分级诊疗。
In order to solve the problem of long waiting time and untimely bedspace arrangement in the fever clinic, Wuhan began to carry out graded treatment on January 24.
社区医疗中心对病人筛选、分类，不能确定为疑似的接回指定地点隔离观察，已确定或高度疑似的送至指定治疗点。
The community health centre screens and classifies patients for isolated observation at designated sites that cannot be identified as suspected return, and has identified or is highly suspected of being transported to designated treatment sites.
但现状是，定点医院“一床难求”，而社区医院也面临处理能力有限、人手紧张等难题。
But the situation is that designated hospitals "one bed difficult," and community hospitals also face limited capacity, staffing constraints and other challenges.
截至1月31日24时，武汉市累计报告感染人数3215例。
As of 2400 hours on January 31, the cumulative number of reported infections in Wuhan was 3,215.
武汉市卫健委消息称，1月27日开始，14家第三批征用医院陆续投入使用，将在一定程度上缓解发热病人收治难题。
Since January 27, a third batch of 14 requisitioned hospitals has been in use, which will ease the problem of treating febrile patients to some extent, according to Wuhan Health Commission.
火神山、雷神山两家医院建成使用后，全市可提供12000多张床位，或可改善目前情形。
With the completion of the two hospitals, Flamingo Hill and Lei Shenshan, the city can provide more than 12,000 beds, which may improve the current situation.
1月29日，林梅（化名）给双肺感染的丈夫送药。
On January 29, Lin Mei (alias) gave medicine to her husband with a two-lung infection.
一家三口先后感染，在家用衣柜隔离1月28日中午，林梅拿着连花清瘟、两片蓝色的盐酸阿比多尔，送到丈夫的床头。
At noon on January 28, Lin Mei took two pieces of blue Abidol hydrochloride, rinsing rinderpest, to her husband's bedside.
两分钟后，她再次走进来，这次是给另一张床上的母亲送药。
Two minutes later, she walked in again, this time to give medicine to her mother in the other bed.
忙完这些，她才开始提醒女儿李晴吃药。
After doing so, she began to remind her daughter Li Qing to take the medicine.
送药的顺序，也是家人病情程度的排序。
The order of delivery is also the ranking of the degree of illness of the family.
10天前，母亲被查出“双肺少许感染性病变”；4天前，女儿“左下肺感染性病变”；3天前，丈夫“双肺感染性病变”。
Ten days ago, the mother was diagnosed with "a few cases of infectious disease in both lungs"; four days earlier, her daughter had "an infectious lesion in the left lower lung"; and three days earlier, her husband had "two lung infections."
不到半个月，一家四口三人感染。
Less than half a month, a family of four three infected.
按照7号通告，对于不需要到发热门诊就诊的病人，由各社区落实在家居家观察，社区负责做好市民居家观察服务工作。
According to Circular No. 7, home-based home observation is implemented by the communities for patients who do not need to attend a fever clinic, and the community is responsible for home-based observation services.
因症状较轻，医生曾反复叮嘱林梅的母亲和她的女儿，在家做好隔离措施。
Due to her mild symptoms, the doctor had repeatedly told Lin Mei's mother and her daughter to stay at home and do isolation.
“但家里没有条件。
"But there are no conditions.
”林梅说。
'she said.
房子面积只有61平方米。
The area of the house is only 61 square meters.
林梅只能搬到客厅的木条沙发上睡。
Lin Mei can only sleep on a wooden sofa in the living room.
丈夫和母亲不得不共用一个卧室，用衣柜“隔离”。
Husbands and mothers had to share a bedroom and use the wardrobe to "isolate" them.
女儿则在自己的房间里，尽量不到客厅。
The daughter was in her room, trying not to reach the living room.
1月23日，武汉封城首日，“除了妈妈，一家人都在咳嗽。
Wuhan on January 23, the first day of the city, "except my mother, the family are coughing.
”女儿回忆。
"she recalls.
但对比新冠肺炎“发热、干咳、呼吸困难”等症状，“总有一两个对不上，也没敢往那边想。
But when comparing the symptoms of "fever, dry cough, dyspnea" with Newcastle pneumonia, "there is always one or two people who don't fit in, and don't dare to think that way.
”他们照常一起看电视、做饭，一整天都待在家。
They watched TV and cooked food together as usual and stayed home all day.
1月26日，父亲发烧38.2℃，浑身酸痛。
On 26 January, his father had a fever of 38.2 ° C, which caused him pain.
女儿李晴也开始有类似症状， 经武汉普仁医院诊断，左下肺感染性病变。
Daughter Li Qing also began to have similar symptoms, through Wuhan Puren hospital diagnosis, left lower lung infectious disease.
一家人这才意识到，“这不是普通的感冒发烧”。
The family realized, "It's not a common cold or fever."
爸爸在第九医院拍了肺部CT，“双肺感染性病变”。
Dad took a lung CT in the ninth hospital, "Two lung infections."
医生告诉他，得尽快住院，再拖下去有可能呼吸衰竭。
The doctor told him that he needed to be hospitalized as soon as possible and that further delay could result in respiratory failure.
林梅开始后怕 ， 第二天中午，她到超市买了两袋一次性纸碗，“餐具分开，用完就扔”。
Lin Mei began to fear, the next day at noon, she went to the supermarket to buy two disposable paper bowls, "tableware separate, use up throw."
“现在最当紧的是我老公。
"Right now, my husband is the most urgent.
女儿还年轻，应该挺得住。
My daughter is young enough to hold her own.
”她哭了出来。
'she cried.
李晴赶紧拉住她的手，“莫揉眼睛，莫揉眼睛，先去洗手。
Li Qing grabbed her hand at once. "Don't rub your eyes. Don't rub your eyes. Wash your hands first.
”  根据7号通告要求，已确定或高度疑似的新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎病人，由市卫健委负责，安排车辆送至指定治疗点治疗。
According to Circular No. 7, pneumonia patients with a new coronavirus infection who have been confirmed or are highly suspected will be taken to designated treatment points by the municipal health authorities.
爸爸的病情刻不容缓，医生建议马上住院，但一直找不到床位，无奈之下，李晴发微博求助。
Dad's condition is urgent, the doctor recommended immediate hospitalization, but has been unable to find a bed, helpless, Li Qing Weibo for help.
1月28日，青山区卫监所工作人员发现微博内容后，安排武汉第九医院的护士上门为他打针送药，但没有医院能为他提供床位。
On 28 January, when the staff of Qingshan District Health Center discovered the contents of the microblog, they arranged for the nurse from Wuhan Ninth Hospital to come and deliver medicine to him, but no hospital could provide him with a bed.
1月26日，陶汉新被医生建议在定点医院住院治疗，但他在医院的过道睡了三四天也没有等到床位。
On 26 January, Taohanxin was hospitalized at the designated hospital on the recommendation of his doctor, but he slept in the hospital corridor for three or four days without waiting for his bed.
医院床位告急，患者在走廊吸氧治疗当地媒体1月29日的报道所引述的数据也证实了武汉医院床位紧缺。
The shortage of hospital beds in Wuhan is also confirmed by figures cited in a report by local media on January 29 that hospital beds are in short supply in Wuhan.
武汉市前两批定点医院（10家）共提供床位4000余张，“目前基本饱和”。
The first two designated hospitals in Wuhan (10) have provided more than 4,000 beds, "basically saturated" at present.
1月22日，57岁的武汉市民陶汉新第一次发热。
On January 22, the 57-year-old Wuhan city of Min Tao Xin had her first fever.
妻子马美莲回忆，他们从当天上午一直排到夜里11点，终于见到医生。
His wife, Ma Mei-lai, recalled that they had been waiting until 11 p. m., when they finally met the doctor.
又等了四个多小时才拿到CT和血检结果，“医生说只是普通发热，开了药，让我们就回家继续观察。
It took us more than four hours to get the CT and blood test results. "The doctor said it was just a simple fever.
”  1月25日，陶汉新再次发烧。
On January 25, Tao Hanxin developed a fever again.
接下来的几天 ，他体温最高达到39.4℃。
Over the next few days, his temperature reached 39.4 degrees Celsius.
家人不敢相信，又换了新的体温计量，“我当时就担心会不会是这个病。
"The family couldn't believe it, and a new thermometer was added." I was worried about the disease.
”马美莲说。
'she said.
陶汉新第二次拍的肺部CT中，两片卵石状的白色的区域越来越大，后来几乎看不到黑色。
In a second lung CT taken by Taohanxin, two pebble-shaped white areas grew larger and larger, and later little black was seen.
中南医院重症医学科主任彭志勇介绍，“白色区域越大，病人肺部功能越差”。
"The larger the white area, the worse the lung function," said Peng Zhiyong, director of severe medicine at Zhongnan Hospital.
接诊的同济医院的医生告诉马美莲， 双肺病毒性肺炎，病情严重，“要动用一切关系住院。
The doctor at the treating Tongji Hospital told Ma Mei-lai that the two-lung viral pneumonia was serious and that "all relationships should be used for hospitalization.
”  1月28日，因为在同济医院没有挂上号，马美莲只好又带着丈夫去了附近的武汉普爱医院发热门诊。
On January 28, Marmeilin took her husband to a hot clinic at Wuhan Pu-ai Hospital, after failing to put her name on the list at Tongji Hospital.
“从来没见过医院那么多人，排队的人可以把病房大楼绕一圈。
"People who have never seen so many people in a hospital can walk around the ward building.
”1月29日20时许，医院发热门诊大厅坐满了输液的患者。
At about 2000 hours on January 29, the hospital's fever clinic was filled with patients receiving transfusions.
医生让陶汉新在诊疗室观察，但护士告诉马美莲，连诊疗室也住满了。
The doctor asked Taohanxin to look in the clinic, but the nurse told him that even the clinic was full.
心急之下， 马美莲闯进了诊疗室。
In a hurry, Marmeilin broke into the clinic.
“我们只是呆在这里，万一有什么事，你们可以分一点氧气给他，肺炎患者一口气上不来，就完了。
"We're just staying here, and if anything happens, you can give him some oxygen, and the pneumonia sufferer won't show up at one go.
”马美莲跟护士争辩起来。
"Ma argued with the nurse.
马美莲看到，诊疗室床位都躺着患者，地上还躺着两个。
Ms. Ma found beds in the clinic full of patients and two on the floor.
最后，丈夫还是没能进入诊疗室。
Finally, the husband was still unable to enter the clinic.
马美莲说，丈夫曾多次出现呼吸困难，甚至抽搐。
Ms. Ma says her husband has repeatedly had difficulty breathing, or even convulsions.
1月29日晚上，她带丈夫回到同济医院发热门诊救治，门诊大厅外随处可见挂点滴的患者，有的坐在台阶上，有的坐在车里输液。
On the evening of 29 January, she took her husband back to the Tongji Hospital for treatment at the fever clinic, where drip-dripping patients were to be found sitting on the steps or infusion in the car.
为了吸氧，他们自带折叠床到门诊走廊上“蹭住”。
To take in oxygen, they take their own folding beds and "rub up" in the outpatient corridor.
当晚，同济医院的保安推出第35个氧气空罐。
That evening, security guards at Tongji Hospital launched the 35th empty oxygen tank.
新的罐体接连送来，供挤在椅子上输液的病人们使用。
New tanks were brought in one after another for the use of patients crammed into chairs.
20多米长的过道，摆着七八张折叠床。
More than 20 meters long aisle, seven or eight pieces of folding bed.
“都是在等床位的人。
"It's all people who are waiting for beds.
”当天，记者探访武汉市多家定点收治医院发现，几乎每家医院的发热门诊都排着长队，人们拿着CT戴着口罩，焦急等待着。
On the same day, reporters visited a number of designated hospitals in Wuhan and found that almost every hospital had long queues of fever clinics, with people wearing CT masks and waiting anxiously.
武汉第九医院发热门诊大厅导医处的工作人员告诉记者，“床位早就满了”；定点医院武汉市第七医院门前也贴着“床位已满”的通告；武汉大学中南医院重症监护室主任彭志勇也告诉记者，“都是刚转走一个，马上就进来一个”。
"The beds are already full," Wuhan Hospital No. 9 Hospital, director of the hospital's intensive care unit Pang Zhiyong, told reporters. "They just turned one off, coming in right away," he told reporters.
“20多名医护对接6万社区居民 ”根据7号通告，全市各社区负责全面排查所服务辖区发热病人，并送社区医疗中心对病情进行筛选、分类。
"More than 20 doctors and nurses have docked 60,000 community residents." Communities across the city are responsible for conducting comprehensive screening of febrile patients in their service areas and sending them to community health centres to screen and classify cases, according to Circular No. 7.
对于需要到发热门诊的病人，各区统一安排车辆送达指定发热门诊就诊。
For the patients who need to go to the fever clinic, the district arranges the vehicle to deliver to the designated fever clinic.
马美莲家所在的街道书记告诉记者，按照分级诊疗程序，他曾把陶汉新的病情反馈到社区医院，由他们联系床位，负责转诊。
Ma's street secretary told reporters that according to the grading procedure, he had referred Tao Hanxin's condition back to the community hospital, where they contacted the bed for referral.
“医院床位确实紧张，我每天都在帮他们申报，到现在五六天了，还是没有。
"The hospital beds are really tight. I've been filing for them every day, five or six days later, and I haven't.
”书记说。
"said the clerk.
市长热线的工作人员告诉她，会将情况反馈给硚口区，24小时回复。
She was told by the mayor's hotline staff that the situation would be reported back to the Zou district 24 hours a day.
但马美莲一直没有接到这通电话。
But Ms. Ma never got the call.
她所在社区的硚口区汉水桥街道卫生服务中心，只有20多名医护人员，却要对接6万名社区居民。
The Hanshuiqiao street health service center in her community, called Hanshuiqiao, has more than 20 medical workers but connects 60,000 community residents.
这里甚至不能验血，只能量体温开药。
You can't even take blood. You can only take your temperature.
工作人员称，负责血液检测的医护人员无法到岗，“一个出现发热，在家隔离了；另一个春节前回老家，现在回不来。
"One of them had a fever and was quarantined at home. Another returned home before the Spring Festival and is unable to return home," staff said.
”  自称体温37.5℃的市民前来咨询，值班医生建议他“吃点抗病毒的药和抗生素，回家继续观察，如果出现持续发热，再来社区医院报备。
Citizens claiming to have a temperature of 37.5 degrees sought advice from the doctor on duty, who advised him to "take antiviral drugs and antibiotics, go home and continue to observe if fever persists, and report back to the community hospital.
”1月30日中午，武汉第六医院，发热患者排着长队等待就医。
At noon on January 30 in Wuhan's Sixth Hospital, fever sufferers lined up for medical treatment.
记者走访发现，不少承担分级诊疗初筛工作的社区医院面临救治困境。
Interviews with journalists revealed that many of the community hospitals that undertake the first screening work face treatment difficulties.
1月29日，林梅一家所在的青山区钢花街西区社区卫生院空空荡荡，只有两名咨询患者。
On January 29, the West District Community Health Centre in Qingshan District, where the Linmei family is located, was empty, with only two patients consulted.
一位工作人员告诉记者，“这里只能给你扎下手指头，验下血，做血常规初步筛查。
"Only your fingers can be pricked down, blood taken, and blood screened for routine," a staff member told reporters.
打不了针也输不了液，建议你还是去第九医院，他们那里什么都能查。
No shot, no fluid. I suggest you go to the ninth hospital. They can look up everything.
”这意味着，即便是疑似病例，也需要患者自己想办法去定点医院就诊，因为这里也“没有转诊车”。
This means that even in suspected cases, patients need to figure out their own way to go to a hospital, where there are "no referral cars."
相比之下，九峰街社区卫生服务中心显得繁忙。
By contrast, the Kowloon Fung Street Community Health Service Centre is busy.
1月30日下午，医院门口一辆警车正在待命，两名量体温的工作人员正在逐一登记就诊者体温。
On the afternoon of January 30, a police car was on standby at the hospital gate, and two staff members taking temperature were checking in one by one.
为了避免交叉感染，他们要求只有发热患者才能进门。
To avoid cross-infection, they asked that only febrile patients enter the house.
记者在登记表上看到，一上午就有30多位居民来过这里。
Reporters on the registration form, more than 30 residents have been here this morning.
工作人员介绍，社区医院的功能就是初筛，如果患者血检指标和体温都有新冠肺炎的可能，他们将安排车辆转运到离这里最近的定点医院，“我们比其他社区医院好一些，卫健委给了一辆转诊车。
"We're better than the other community hospitals," the staff said. "If the patient's blood test and body temperature have the possibility of a new crown pneumonia, they will arrange for the vehicle to be transferred to the nearest designated hospital." We are better than other community hospitals.
其他社区医院可能都没有。
Other community hospitals may not be available.
”这辆转诊车，上午已经送了十几趟，都是疑似病例。
The referral car, which had been delivered more than a dozen times in the morning, was suspected.
在一位不愿具名的社区医院工作人员看来，分级诊疗减轻了部分压力，但疑似病例还有很多，所以才会导致各定点医院床位不足、人满为患。
In the view of an anonymous community hospital worker, tiered care has reduced some of the stress, but the number of suspected cases remains high, leading to insufficient beds and overcrowding in designated hospitals.
社区医院：物资紧缺工作压力大 除了病例转送问题，多家社区工作站还出现了防护物资紧缺、工作人员超负荷工作的情况。
Community hospitals: materials shortage of work pressure in addition to the transfer of cases, a number of community workstations also have a shortage of protective materials, staff overload work.
洪山区某社区书记秦英，前几天接触的一个辖区的发热患者，让她心有余悸。
Hongshan District Secretary Qin Ying, a few days ago contact with a district of febrile patients, let her haunt.
“已经发烧10多天了，病例上写的是病毒性肺炎，来了之后，找我们派车送他去医院，但后来他确诊的就是新冠病毒性肺炎”。
"I've had a fever for more than 10 days and the case says viral pneumonia. When I arrived, I asked for a car to take him to the hospital.
1月30日，马美莲所在的社区医院，因相关同事无法到岗，只能提供体温测量和开药。
On 30 January, the community hospital in which Ms. Ma worked was unable to reach her colleagues and could only provide temperature measurements and medication.
她和同事只有口罩防护。
She and her colleagues were protected only by masks.
“每天来的是不是潜在新冠肺炎患者，我们也不知道，只能减少回家的次数。
"We don't know if it's a potential new crown pneumonia patient coming in every day, only to go home less often," he said.
”她已经让儿子一家三口搬到其他地方住，“孙子才四岁，怕把他们传染了”。
"She has asked her son's family of three to move somewhere else." The grandson is only four years old and afraid of infecting them.
秦英已经20多天没有休息过。
Qin Ying has not had a rest for more than 20 days.
有时候凌晨还在接听居民电话。
Sometimes the wee hours are answered by residents.
“我们都是24小时开机，随时响应辖区居民求助”。
"We are all on 24-hour, ready to respond to the district residents for help."
她的回访记录本已写满了八页，黑色字迹部分的是发热患者的求助内容，红色字迹是社区回访时病人的情况。
Her return log was eight pages long, in black with help from a feverish patient and in red with the patient on a community visit.
每一条记录都标注着患者姓名、家庭住址、身份证号和具体回访时间。
Each record indicates the patient's name, home address, identity number and time of return.
到目前为止，她已经持续跟踪记录了21位患者的情况。
So far, she has been tracking 21 patients.
根据1月24日的第八号通告，全市紧急征招6000台巡游和网约出租车，作为应急用车分配给中心城区1159个社区，由社区居委会统一调度使用，供社区居民提供上门送菜、送药、送餐服务；发热疾病患者原则上只能通过卫生防疫部门专业交通工具运送，紧急情况确需应急车辆运送的，社区应立即报区卫生防疫部门为驾驶员采取必须的隔离防护措施。
According to Circular No. 8 of January 24, 6,000 patrol and net taxis are urgently required throughout the city to be distributed as emergency vehicles to 1,159 communities in central urban areas. Community residents should be provided with door-to-door food delivery, medicine delivery and food delivery services.
让秦英苦恼的是，个别居民不理解，为什么社区有车，但不能接送发热患者去医院就诊。
Qin Ying is distressed that individual residents do not understand why the community has a car, but can not take fever patients to the hospital.
“我们也要确保志愿者的安全。
"We also need to ensure the safety of our volunteers.
他们跟我们一样只有普通的医用口罩，防护服、护目镜都没有。
Like us, they only have ordinary medical masks, protective clothing and goggles.
但是没有办法，物资得优先保障一线医护人员，我们也能理解。
But there is no way, supplies have to give priority to the protection of front-line medical personnel, we can understand.
”  有居民因此要投诉社区不作为。
Some residents therefore complain about the community's inaction.
秦英苦笑着说。
Qin Ying said with a wry smile.
对于发热的患者出行，他们只能先与指挥部联系，再与医院联系，通过专门渠道运送发热患者。
For febrile patients, they can only contact the headquarters, and then contact the hospital, through special channels to transport fever patients.
1月29日，林梅所在的青山区卫监所，已经帮她联系到床位，是武汉新公布的第三批定点医院之一的武钢二院。
On January 29, Linmei's Qingshan Health Infirmary, which has helped her reach her bed, is one of the third batch of designated hospitals in Wuhan.
1月31日，马美莲告诉记者，他们已经拿到医院核酸检测的名额。
On January 31, Ms. Ma told reporters they had been given a place at the hospital for nucleic acid tests.
“有了确诊结果，床位就有希望了。
"With the result of the diagnosis, there is hope for beds.
”（文中林梅、李晴、陈凤、陈强、秦英为化名，新京报记者游天燚对此文亦有贡献）洋葱话题▼你所在的社区是如何防疫的？后台回复关键词“洋葱君”，加入读者群推荐阅读武汉医生驿站 ：为4万人次提供住宿 有退出也有坚守武汉某定点医院被隔离的医生：曾一晚接诊200名患者卫健委专家曾光：关闭离汉通道为专家组意见，绝对正确既然在看，就点一下吧。
(Text Linmei, Li Qing, Chen Feng, Chen Qiang, Qinying as aliases, Xinhua News reporter Yu Tian-yun has contributed to this article.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉定点医院一床难求，患者居家用衣柜隔离。
Wuhan Dingdian Hospital a bed difficult to access, patients with wardrobe isolation.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "剥洋葱people";。
Var nickname = & quot; peeled with onions;;
var msg_title = "武汉定点医院一床难求，患者居家用衣柜隔离";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "“从来没见过医院那么多人，排队的人可以把病房大楼绕一圈。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "Never seen so many people in a hospital; people in line can circle a ward building.
”";。
";;
title: '武汉医生驿站 ：为4万人次提供住宿   有退出也有坚守',。
At the doctor's post office in Wuhan: At least 40,000 people have had to leave or have AT & amp; apos; s service.
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '武汉某定点医院被隔离的医生：曾一晚接诊200名患者',。
A quarantined doctor at a selected hospital in Wuhan: At least 200 patients were treated at S & amp; A overnight.
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '卫健委专家曾光：关闭离汉通道为专家组意见，绝对正确',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="剥洋葱people";。
var title = & quot; peeled with onion;;
