新冠肺炎幸存者排毒持续时间中位数为20天，颠覆原有想象。
The median duration of detoxification was 20 days for New Crown Pneumonia survivors, upsetting the imagination.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
记者：金淼“ 新研究发表在医学期刊《柳叶刀》，作者为中日友好医院副院长曹彬等人。
Interviewer: The new study was published in the medical journal Lancet by Cao Bin, vice-president of the Sino-Japanese Friendship Hospital.
”3月9日，医学期刊《柳叶刀》发表中日友好医院副院长曹彬等人论文，探讨新冠肺炎成年患者临床中与死亡率相关的危险因素，指出高龄患者确实更可能面临死亡风险。
On March 9, the medical journal Lancet published a paper by Cao Bin, vice-president of the China-Japan Friendship Hospital and others, discussing the risk factors associated with mortality in adult patients with New Crown Pneumonia, pointing out that elderly patients are indeed at greater risk of death.
该文章中指出，尽管已经有关于新冠肺炎患者的病例的相关文章，但是由于文章发表时，许多患者仍住院治疗，未很好描述患者死亡的危险因素。
The article notes that, although articles have been written about cases of patients with Newly Coronary Pneumonia, many patients were still hospitalized at the time of publication of the article and the risk factors for the death of the patient were not well described.
该研究纳入135例武汉金银潭医院、56例武汉市肺科医院的患者，2020年1月31日前出院或死亡的191例患者中，出院137例、死亡54例。
The study included 135 cases from Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital and 56 cases from Wuhan City Lung Hospital. Of the 191 patients discharged or died before January 31, 2020, 137 were discharged and 54 died.
从疾病发生到出院的中位时间为22天，死亡中位时间为18.5天。
The median time from onset of disease to discharge was 22 days and median time of death was 18.5 days.
文章中表示，患者入院时最常见的症状时发烧和咳嗽，此外是痰液和乏力、肺部影响上的毛玻璃样浸润。
The most common symptoms of admission were fever and cough, combined with mucus and fatigue, and glass-like infiltration of the lungs, the article said.
纳入研究的患者中91例患有基础疾病，其中高血压患者58例子，糖尿病患者36例，冠心病15例。
Among the patients included, 91 had basic diseases, including 58 with hypertension, 36 with diabetes and 15 with coronary heart disease.
该研究发现一些因素与死亡率密切相关，比如高龄、入院时器官衰竭评估分数较高及血栓标志物D-二聚体含量大于1微克/升等。
The study found a number of factors closely associated with mortality, such as advanced age, high organ failure assessment scores on admission and thrombotic marker D-dimer concentrations greater than 1 ug / l.
此外，此次研究首次阐述新冠病毒排毒时间，即病毒感染宿主细胞并继续繁殖的时间。
In addition, for the first time, the new crown virus detoxification time, that is, the time when the virus infects host cells and continues to multiply.
在流感中，排毒期越长越可能导致死亡。
In flu, the longer the detoxification period, the more likely it is to die.
而评估感染性病毒复制水平和持续时间，对评估病毒传播风险、制定治疗及隔离措施有重要意义。
It is important to evaluate the replication level and duration of infectious virus to evaluate the risk of virus transmission and to develop treatment and isolation measures.
研究显示，幸存者排毒持续时间的中位数为20天，最短8天，其中一例长达37天。
The median duration of detoxification was 20 days and 8 days, including 37 days in one case, the study showed.
曹彬在文章发表后接受《柳叶刀》采访时表示，“20天这个数字颠覆了对于急性呼吸道病毒感染的病毒排毒时间的想象。
In an interview with The Lancet after the article was published, Cao said: "The figure of 20 days turns the clock back on the timing of ARV virus detoxification.
”而为了减少病毒复制、缩短病毒排毒时间，需要及早开展抗病毒治疗。
In order to reduce viral replication and detoxification time, early antiviral treatment is needed.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
新冠肺炎幸存者排毒持续时间中位数为20天，颠覆原有想象。
The median duration of detoxification was 20 days for New Crown Pneumonia survivors, upsetting the imagination.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "新冠肺炎幸存者排毒持续时间中位数为20天，颠覆原有想象";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; with a median duration of 20 days.
var msg_desc = "新研究发表在医学期刊《柳叶刀》，作者为中日友好医院副院长曹彬等人。
var msg _ desc = & quot; new research published in the medical journal Lancet by Cao Bin, vice-president of Sino-Japanese Friendship Hospital.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
