数说疫情0311：华盛顿州阳性检出率10%，意大利按战时原则救治。
Count 0311: Washington State positive detection rate of 10%, Italy according to the principles of wartime treatment.
徐进。
Xu Jin.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
国内疫情初步实现了稳定局势、扭转局面的目标。
The domestic epidemic initially achieved the goal of stabilizing the situation and turning it around.
海外新增已是国内的200倍。
Overseas growth has been 200 times greater than in China.
如果再不采取进一步隔离和检测措施，美国新增病例数恐将继续呈指数级增长文|《财经》数据研究员徐进 图|《财经》视觉中心 编辑|郝洲一、国内进一步巩固战果今日国内简述：截至3月10日24时，国内报告累计确诊病例80778例，新增24例。
Without further isolation and testing, the number of new cases in the United States is likely to continue to grow exponentially. & # 160; Caijing Data Researcher Xu Jin-tu & # 44; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & # 45; & #
国内非湖北地区境外输入病例10例，大兴安岭本地病例1例，推测为该地3月8日报告的疑似病例转为确诊。
There were 10 imported cases from outside Hubei province and 1 case from Daxing'an Mountain. The suspected cases reported on March 8 there turned into confirmed cases.
黑龙江省内当前疑似病例的增量和存量皆为零，尚有141人正在接受医学观察。
The number of suspected cases in Heilongjiang province is zero, with 141 people under medical observation.
湖北非武汉地区连续6日零新增。
Hubei non-Wuhan area added 6 consecutive days.
武汉新增病例连续4日在两位数，当日新增疑似病例6例，首次降为个位数。
Wuhan on the fourth consecutive day of new cases in double digits, the same day new suspected cases of 6 cases, the first time to reduce to single digits.
为推进本地企业复工复产，湖北省已经开展健康码发放工作。
In order to promote the resumption of local enterprises, Hubei Province has launched health code distribution work.
二、海外单日新增几乎为国内的200倍图1意大利累计确诊过万，美国累计确诊过千，海外累计死亡病例过千。
Figures 1 Italy has confirmed more than ten thousand cases, the cumulative number of confirmed cases in the United States, the cumulative number of deaths overseas over a thousand.
海外单日新增已近国内200倍。
Overseas day has increased nearly 200 times.
图2意大利结束了连日来的狂飚，缓缓踩了一脚刹车，终于将新增病例拉回到3位数，但德国和法国纷纷创造了疫情以来单日新增确诊病例的记录，分别新增341例和372例。
Fig. 2 Italy ends days of wild, slow-moving brakes that have brought new cases back to three digits, but Germany and France have recorded 341 new cases and 372 new cases a day since the outbreak.
韩国、伊朗疫情反弹，或将进入拉锯战。
South Korea, Iran rebound, or will enter a tug of war.
三、美国华盛顿州病毒阳性检出率超过10%图3美国各地官方公布的数字显示，新冠病毒疫情已经开始在美国出现了明显的暴发势头，多地新增的确诊病例数更是直接翻倍。
Figure 3 Official figures from across the United States show that the outbreak of the new crown virus has begun to take off in the United States, with more new cases being directly doubled.
以目前美国疫情最严重的华盛顿州为例，当地的新确诊病例从前一天的167例，直接暴增了100例，达到了267例。
In Washington state, now the worst affected state in the United States, the number of newly confirmed cases jumped 100 to 267, up from 167 the day before.
更令人担忧的是，以上病例仅仅是当地对2442人进行测试后检出的；前一天累计的167个确诊病例，则是对1311人进行测试后发现的；新增的100个病例，也只是测试了1131人的结果。
More worryingly, the cases were detected only after local testing of 2,442 people; the cumulative total of 167 confirmed cases from the previous day was tested on 1,311 people; and the results of the additional 100 cases were only tested on 1,131 people.
这也就是说，从目前的数据来看，在华盛顿州接受测试的人群中，新冠病毒阳性的检出率超过了10%。
That said, from current data, the New Crown Virus positive test rate in people tested in Washington State exceeded 10 percent.
需要说明的是，华盛顿州目前接受病毒检测的人群仍然有限。
It is important to note that the number of people currently tested for the virus in Washington State is still limited.
美国政府尽管此前将病毒检测纳入医保，但个人仍需支付数额不等的费用，没有医保的人更是难以承担检测费用。
The U.S. government, which previously covered health care for the virus, still has to pay varying amounts for individuals, especially those without health care, to pay for testing.
美国总统特朗普当地时间3月11日将会见一些美国最大银行的负责人，讨论金融业对于新冠疫情的应对以及疫情对于小企业、市场和经济的影响。
US President Trump will meet with the heads of some of America's largest banks on March 11 to discuss the financial sector's response to the new crown epidemic and its impact on small businesses, markets, and the economy.
特朗普此前提议大幅削减工资税，并为航空公司、酒店和邮轮行业提供援助，但具体方案尚未公布。
Trump has previously proposed deep cuts in payroll taxes and assistance to airlines, hotels, and the cruise industry, but the details have yet to be announced.
四、欧盟设立250亿欧元基金应对疫情，意大利恐成为“第二个武汉”图4疫情已经是欧洲国家共同面临的最大挑战。
The European Union has set up a 25 billion euro fund to fight the epidemic, and Italy is already facing the biggest common challenge in Europe, threatening to become the "second Wuhan" outbreak.
包括英国卫生部副部长、波兰武装部队总司令、法国文化部长在内的多国政府和军界高官纷纷宣布确诊。
The diagnosis was announced by several senior government and military officials, including the Deputy Minister of Health, the Commander-in-Chief of the Polish Armed Forces and the French Minister of Culture.
欧盟委员会主席冯德莱恩3月10日表示，欧盟将设立一个250亿欧元（约合1950亿元人民币）的基金，以应对由新冠肺炎引发的经济危机。
The European Union will set up a 25 billion euro (195bn) fund to deal with the economic crisis caused by pneumonia in the New Crown.
资金将在未来几周开始流向医疗体系、中小企业和劳动力市场。
Funding will begin flowing into the health-care system, small and medium-sized enterprises, and the labor market in the coming weeks.
图5意大利疫情已蔓延全国101座城市，累计确诊过万例。
Fig. 5 The Italian epidemic has spread to 101 cities across the country, with a cumulative total of 10,000 cases diagnosed.
伴随确诊病例的大幅增长，意大利单日病亡人数再创新高，达到168人。
With the dramatic increase in the number of confirmed cases, the number of one-day deaths in Italy reached a new high of 168.
意大利民防部门负责人、新冠病毒应急委员会专员安杰洛·博雷利解释称，患者死亡人数的快速增长，主要在于意大利社会人口结构老龄化问题较为突出。
Angelo Borelli, head of Italy's civil defence department and commissioner of the New Crown Virus Emergency Response Board, explained that the rapid increase in the number of deaths was largely due to the ageing of Italy's sociodemographic structure.
且死亡患者大都为体弱多病的老年人，患者死亡的原因多为病毒引发的综合病症，很少有患者因单一新冠肺炎病症导致死亡。
Most of the deaths occurred in the frail elderly. Most of the deaths were due to viral complications, and few patients died from the single crown pneumonia.
意大利迄今已经为大约5.4万人进行了病毒检测，检测的目标群体主要集中在高危地区有明显症状和已知与确诊患者接触的人。
Italy has so far tested approximately 54,000 people, mainly in high-risk areas with visible symptoms and known contact with confirmed patients.
该政策意味很多带有病毒的轻微患者或无症状患者，还没有机会接受病毒检测，因而导致部分患者未能及时接受治疗，使病情加重。
The policy means that many mild or asymptomatic patients with the virus do not have the opportunity to be tested for the virus, leading to some patients not receiving treatment in a timely manner, which exacerbates the situation.
意大利北部地区的感染人数呈指数级增加，医生们参照战时分诊的原则来决定谁能获得有限的ICU床位。
The number of infections in northern Italy has increased exponentially, with doctors deciding who has access to a limited number of ICU beds, based on the principle of war time diagnosis.
决定是否转入ICU病房的参考标准包括病人的年龄和活下来的可能性，而不仅仅是"先到先得"。
The criteria used to determine whether to transfer to the ICU include age and likelihood of survival, not just & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
另外，伦巴第地大区政府一直在努力增加重症监护病房的容量：他们将手术室和康复室改造成隔离病房，提供给目前急需治疗的440名重症患者。
In addition, the regional government of Lombardy has been working to increase the capacity of intensive care units: they have converted operating rooms and rehabilitation rooms into isolation wards for 440 patients who are in urgent need of treatment.
在过去的两周内临时增加了150多个床位，预计在未来的一周内还会再增加150个。
More than 150 beds have been added temporarily in the past two weeks, and another 150 are expected to be added in the coming week.
民众担忧意大利“或许会成为第二个武汉”。
The fear is that Italy "may become a second Wuhan."
意大利总理孔特此前在接受媒体采访时称，“这是我们的至暗时刻，但我们会度过。
"This is our darkest hour, but we're going to get through it," Italian Prime Minister Gon Koon said in an interview with the media.
”五、首尔爆发新冠疫情以来规模最大的集体感染图6据韩国首尔市市长朴元淳3月11日称，发生在九老区新道林洞办公楼呼叫中心的新冠肺炎集体感染中，确诊病例共计90例。
Seoul's largest collective infection since the outbreak of the New Crown. A total of 90 cases were confirmed in the New Crown Pneumonia (CHP) call centre at Lam Tung Office Centre, 9-Lao District, Seoul, March 11, 2007.
其中，首尔市60例、京畿道13例、仁川市15例，为首尔规模最大的新冠肺炎集体感染。
Among them, 60 cases in Seoul, 13 cases in Gyeonggi Province, and 15 cases in Incheon City are the largest group infections of New Crown Pneumonia.
医学专家们认为，首都地区（首尔市、京畿道、仁川市）人口多达2600万，频现集体感染恐为韩国防控新冠肺炎疫情增添变数。
With a population of 26 million in the capital (Seoul, Gyeonggi province, Incheon City), medical experts believe mass infections threaten to add a variable to South Korea's control of the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic.
韩国防疫部门对新天地大邱教会信徒的核酸检测已接近尾声，新增确诊病例连日下降。
The anti-epidemic department of the Republic of Korea is nearing the end of DNA testing for Taegu believers in Xintiandi.
但发生在首都地区呼叫中心、医院等地集体感染却成为再次引发疫情大规模扩散的隐患。
But the collective infection happened in the call center and hospital of the capital area became the hidden trouble that caused the epidemic to spread again.
也有专家表示，若首都地区确诊患者持续增加，恐出现与大邱、庆尚北道一样病床紧缺的问题，因此有必要提前制定应对措施。
Experts also said that if the number of confirmed patients in the capital continued to increase, fear of a shortage of beds as Daegu, Gyeongshan North Province, it would be necessary to develop a response in advance.
六、164名中国公民乘包机离开德黑兰，已集中隔离观察图7新冠疫情在伊朗蔓延的步伐还没有停止。
Six, 164 Chinese citizens have left Tehran on chartered flights, and have been concentrating on quarantining the spread of the new crown in Iran.
为呼吁伊朗民众减少出门，伊朗国家电视台主持人日前在电视直播节目中突然跪下，恳请大家尽量待在家里，以防止新冠病毒进一步传播。
Appealing to Iranians to cut back on travel, the head of Iranian state television dropped to his knees during a live television broadcast, urging people to stay at home to prevent further transmission of the virus.
伊朗法尔斯通讯社报道，伊朗伊斯兰革命卫队在伊朗西阿塞拜疆省建立了“方舱”医院，设有200个隔离床位，用来抗击新冠肺炎疫情。
Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps (IRGC) has set up a 200-bed quarantine hospital in Iran's western Azerbaijan province to fight the outbreak of the New Crown Pneumonia, the Fars news agency reported.
3月11日凌晨1时17分，又有164名中国公民从伊朗德黑兰起飞，搭乘南航包机抵达成都。
On 11 March, at 1.17 a.m., another 164 Chinese citizens took off from Tehran and arrived in Chengdu on chartered flights of South Airways.
已安排全部集中隔离医学观察。
Arrangements have been made to centralize medical observation.
【特别说明：以上统计，2月28日前为世卫组织官方统计数据，数据截止时间为北京时间每日17时；从2月28日开始，数据由《财经》根据公开资料统计，截止时间为北京时间每日9时】七、全球疫情数字速览：1、【每天检测1万人】英国国民保健服务（NHS）昨天宣布，有关新冠病毒肺炎的测试数量将从目前的每天1500人增至每天1万人。
The National Health Service (NHS) announced yesterday that the number of tests for the new crown pneumonia would increase from 1,500 a day to 10,000 a day, according to statistics released by Caijing at 9: 00 am daily from Feb. 28.
2、【罚款100万日元】日本自3月15日起禁止全国转售口罩，包括所有个人、零售商铺及网络的转售行为，家庭用及医用口罩均在禁止范围之内。
Japan has banned the resale of face masks nationwide since March 15, covering all resale of individuals, retailers and networks, including household and medical masks.
违例者可被判处1年监禁及罚款100万日元。
Offenders are liable to one year's imprisonment and a fine of Yen1 million.
小结：经过艰苦努力，湖北和武汉疫情防控形势积极向好变化，初步实现了稳定局势、扭转局面的目标。
Summary: After hard work, the situation of prevention and control of the epidemic in Hubei and Wuhan has changed positively and achieved the goal of stabilizing and turning the situation around.
武汉离解封应该已经不远了。
Wuhan unsealing should not be far away.
境外单日新增病例已是国内的200倍，意大利恐成为“第二个武汉”。
The number of new cases outside the country is already 200 times higher than in China, making Italy a "second Wuhan".
美国正处于疫情暴发的初始阶段，若不采取进一步隔离和检测措施，新增病例数将继续呈指数级增长。
The United States is in the initial stages of an outbreak, and without further isolation and testing, the number of new cases will continue to grow exponentially.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
数说疫情0311：华盛顿州阳性检出率10%，意大利按战时原则救治。
Count 0311: Washington State positive detection rate of 10%, Italy according to the principles of wartime treatment.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "数说疫情0311：华盛顿州阳性检出率10%，意大利按战时原则救治";。
var msg _ title = & quot; counted at & quot; 0311: Washington State has a 10% positive test, and Italy at & quot; & quot; & quot; at war.
var msg_desc = "国内疫情初步实现了稳定局势、扭转局面的目标。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; The domestic epidemic initially achieved its goal of stabilizing and reversing the situation.
海外新增已是国内的200倍。
Overseas growth has been 200 times greater than in China.
如果再不采取进一步隔离和检测措施，美国新增病例数恐将继续呈指数级增长";。
Without further quarantine and testing, the number of new cases in the U.S. may continue to grow exponentially at & quot;;.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
