从超50%医护人员感染SARS，到新冠院内零感染，香港做了什么。
What has been done in Hong Kong from over 50% of health care workers infected with SARS to zero infection in the Crown Colony.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 活粒。
The following article comes from living grains.
Author 活粒。
Author live granules.
活粒。
Live granules.
联动三医，桥接资本，直达健康。
Connect three medicine, bridge capital, directly to health.
医疗卫生部门和研究人员提早入手，并在第一时间告知市民，同时吸取了SARS疫情时期的经验，对医院内感染尤为注意，正是此次中国香港特区抗击新冠疫情值得称道之处文|《财经》记者 赵天宇实习记者朱贺编辑|王小“我们在讨论的过程中，非常小心事后论断的危险。
The health authorities and researchers started early and told the public as soon as possible, drawing on the experience of the SARS epidemic, and paying particular attention to hospital infections. It was Caijing reporter Zhao Tianyu who served as an intern for Caijing.
因此，我们在研究每一个事件时，都尽力设身处地考虑当时所知所及能够做到的限度。
So when we look at every event, we try to put ourselves in the best possible position to consider the limits of what was known and possible.
在事后掌握了有关资料，然后做出批评，是最容易不过的事。
The easiest thing to do is to master the information after the fact and then criticize it.
”这是由中国香港特区政府主导，11位专家联合撰写的一份报告开头。
It began with a report by 11 experts led by the Hong Kong SAR Government.
此报告名为《汲取经验防患未然》，是总结2003年抗击SARS（非典型肺炎）疫情时的经验，时任广州呼吸疾病研究所所长钟南山是专家之一。
The report, entitled Learning from Experience Before You Know, is a summary of 2003's experience in fighting SARS, with Zhong Nan Shan, then director of the Guangzhou Institute of Respiratory Disease, as one of the experts.
17年后，香港的街头，门市依旧热闹，人流穿梭，这座城市如常运转。
Seventeen years later, Hong Kong's street markets are still bustling, with people shuttling and the city working as usual.
然而，建筑物紧凑、人流密集的香港有745万人口，传染病防控无疑充满挑战。
However, with 7.45 million people living in a compact and densely populated Hong Kong, infectious disease prevention and control are undoubtedly challenging.
截至2020年3月8日晚8时，中国香港特区新冠肺炎个案累计115例。
As at 8: 00 pm on March 8, 2020, there were 115 new cases of pneumonia in the Hong Kong SAR of China.
其中，114例确诊，1例疑似。
Of these, 114 cases were diagnosed and 1 case was suspected.
这比起SARS期间好许多。
This is much better than during the SARS period.
香港对新冠病毒感染的防控，多处经验来自于2003年的SARS防控经历。
Hong Kong's experience in the prevention and control of new crown virus infection is derived from the SARS prevention and control experience in 2003.
香港特区卫生署发言人3月4日回复《财经》记者采访时称，香港卫生署卫生防护中心一直以来有恒常的疾病监测系统、感染控制及化验诊断服务，也会就疫病暴发进行流行病学调查，并会按风险通报及评估，制订紧急应变计划，执行香港法例实施相关公共卫生措施，以预防传染病。
The Centre for Health Protection (CHP) of the Department of Health (DH) of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) has a permanent disease surveillance system, infection control and laboratory diagnostic services. The CHP also conducts epidemiological investigations into outbreaks and formulates contingency plans based on risk notification and assessment to implement relevant public health measures under the laws of Hong Kong to prevent infectious diseases, a spokesman for the Department of Health said.
3月5日，一篇来自香港本地医院和香港医院管理局的论文显示，从2019年12月31日中国公布疫情开始计算，前6周里，香港没有医护人员感染新冠肺炎。
On March 5, a paper from a local hospital in Hong Kong and the Hong Kong Hospital Authority showed that no medical staff in Hong Kong had contracted pneumonia in the first six weeks from the date of the announcement of the outbreak in China on 31 December 2019.
在住院患者中，也没有发现新冠病毒在医院内传播。
In inpatient patients, no transmission of the new crown virus was found in the hospital.
香港是如何做到的？香港医护人员零感染新冠肺炎暴发早期，香港对医院内感染防控已经处处小心。
How is Hong Kong doing this? Hong Kong has been careful about in-hospital infection prevention and control in the early stages of the outbreak of nosocomial pneumonia.
自2019年12月31日，国家卫健委宣布武汉出现病因不明的肺炎起，至2月10日的6周里，香港共确诊了42例新冠肺炎病例。
Since December 31, 2019, the National Fitness and Health Commission announced that Wuhan had an unidentified pneumonia, until February 10, a total of 42 cases of new crown pneumonia were confirmed in Hong Kong.
早在2019年12月31日，香港特别行政区食物与卫生局已经开完专家会议，香港大学医学院微生物学系讲座教授袁国勇在这个专家会上表示，武汉的情况“不寻常”，“我们必须提高警觉”。
As early as 31 December 2019, the Food and Health Bureau of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region had completed an expert meeting. Yuan Guoyong, a professor of microbiology at the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Hong Kong, said at the expert meeting that Wuhan was "unusual" and that "we must be vigilant."
香港，这个1104平方公里的国际化城市，和内地往来频繁紧密，有很高的风险从内地输入感染新冠肺炎。
Hong Kong, an international city of 1,104 square kilometres, has frequent and close contact with the Mainland and is at high risk of contracting New Crown Pneumonia from the Mainland.
在上述专家会后召开的新闻发布会上，香港食物及卫生局局长陈肇始说，加强所有防控措施，“出入境口岸加强健康监察措施”，同时提醒市民，如出现呼吸道病症，应戴口罩及时求医。
Speaking at a press conference after the meeting, the Secretary for Food and Health, Mr Chan Siu-kwong, said that all control measures should be stepped up to strengthen health surveillance measures at entry and exit points. Members of the public are reminded to wear face masks if respiratory symptoms arise.
香港的专业人士也很快行动起来，根据流行病的发展，通过扩大临床和流行病学监测标准，以在早期识别并隔离患者。
Professionals in Hong Kong are also moving quickly to identify and isolate patients at an early stage by expanding clinical and epidemiological surveillance standards as the epidemic evolves.
提前计划是此次香港抗疫的一个明显特征。
Advance planning is a striking feature of the epidemic in Hong Kong.
一个例证是，“患者可曾去过中国内地的医院与否”，在2020年1月16日香港已经将这一问题作为监测的流行病学标准之一。
One example is the fact that "patients have been to hospitals in the Mainland of China," an issue that Hong Kong has identified as one of the epidemiological criteria for surveillance on 16 January 2020.
纳入患者是否到访过医院的这个标准，是因为当时暴发SARS疫情时，这一项是病毒感染的风险因素之一。
The criterion of whether a patient has visited a hospital was included because it was one of the risk factors for infection during the SARS outbreak at that time.
根据SARS疫情时的经验来看，在医院内不幸感染SARS病毒的人，超50％是医护人员。
Based on the experience of the SARS epidemic, more than 50 per cent of those unfortunate enough to contract the SARS virus in hospitals were medical personnel.
曾有研究人员统计了多伦多、香港、广州、高雄、新加坡和越南在SARS病毒流行期间报告的医院内感染暴发事件，总共有716例中级和三级病例，其中410名（52.3％）是医护人员。
Researchers have counted outbreaks of hospital-based infections reported during the SARS epidemic in Toronto, Hong Kong, Guangzhou, Kaohsiung, Singapore and Viet Nam, with a total of 716 intermediate and tertiary cases, of which 410 (52.3 per cent) were medical personnel.
因此，采取积极的院内感染控制措施，至关重要，而且也必须提前计划。
Active nosocomial infection control measures are therefore essential and must be planned in advance.
从1月4日起，香港的医院为所有医务人员、临床患者和访客提供手术用口罩。
Since January 4, Hong Kong hospitals have provided surgical masks for all medical staff, clinical patients and visitors.
尽管只佩戴手术用口罩的做法，并没有明显的证据证明可保护人免于感染SARS病毒，但是，此前的研究已表明，医护人员或患者戴手术口罩起码能够降低院内流感病毒大流行的风险。
While the practice of wearing surgical masks alone does not provide clear evidence of protection against SARS, previous studies have shown that wearing surgical masks by health-care workers or patients at least reduces the risk of a pandemic.
保持手部卫生习惯，在医院戴好手术用口罩，以及在患者护理中适当使用全套个人防护设备，尤其是进行产生气溶胶的操作时，是关键的感染控制措施，可预防新冠病毒在医院内的传播。
The maintenance of hand hygiene practices, the wearing of surgical masks in hospitals and the appropriate use of full personal protective equipment in patient care, in particular aerosol-producing operations, are key infection control measures to prevent the spread of the new crown virus in hospitals.
一位经验丰富的感染控制护士在收集空气中的新冠病毒样本时，穿戴了N95口罩、面罩、帽子、手套和长袍在内的全套个人防护设备，并与确诊患者密切接触了63分钟。
An experienced infection control nurse, while collecting samples of the new crown virus in the air, wore a full range of personal protective equipment, including a N95 mask, mask, hat, gloves and robe, and was in close contact with the confirmed patient for 63 minutes.
此后，她完成14天的医学监护，没有出现发烧或呼吸道症状。
Thereafter, she completed 14 days of medical supervision without developing fever or respiratory symptoms.
来自香港玛丽医院、香港大学李嘉诚医学院、香港特别行政区医院管理局共10位作者，观察研究了香港的医院在新冠肺炎暴发最初6周里的做法。
A total of 10 authors from the Hong Kong Mary Hospital, the Li Ka Shing Medical College of the University of Hong Kong and the Hospital Authority of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region observed and studied the practices of hospitals in Hong Kong during the first six weeks of the outbreak.
3月5日，这篇论文发表于学术期刊《感染控制与医院流行病学》（Infection Control & Hospital Epidemiology）。
The paper was published March 5 in the academic journal Infection Control and Hospital Epidemiology.
在最初的6周里，新冠病毒被确认之前，香港有413名医护人员照顾患者，其中11名医护有未经防护的密切接触史，因此隔离了14天。
In the first six weeks, prior to the confirmation of the new crown virus, 413 healthcare professionals attended to patients in Hong Kong, 11 of whom had close and unprotected contact and were therefore isolated for 14 days.
隔离结束时，发现这些医护人员没有人感染新冠病毒。
At the end of isolation, none of the paramedics was found to have contracted the new crown virus.
香港在前6周里发现的42例新冠病例中，有36例立即被送入隔离室。
Of the 42 new cases found in Hong Kong in the previous six weeks, 36 were immediately admitted to isolation rooms.
因此，在住院患者中，也没有发现新冠病毒在医院内传播。
As a result, no nosocomial transmission of the new crown virus was found among hospitalized patients.
即使在一般病房中，面对普通患者，当进行产生气溶胶的操作时，香港的医护人员也加强了全套个人防护设备的使用。
Even in general wards, when handling aerosol-producing operations, the use of full personal protective equipment (PPE) has been stepped up in Hong Kong.
这同样是吸取了SARS应对经验，气管插管、开放式抽吸和使用高流量氧气等操作，已被证明与医护人员感染SARS病毒的风险因素有关。
It also draws lessons from SARS experience, with trachea intubation, open suction and the use of high-flow oxygen, which have been shown to be associated with risk factors for SARS among health-care workers.
通过在流行病演变过程中加强监视，以及逐步扩大筛查标准，香港可以在住院后识别出大部分确诊病例，并在新冠疫情开始6周内，在医护人员和患者中实现了医院内的零传播。
Through increased surveillance during the course of the epidemic and the gradual expansion of screening standards, Hong Kong has been able to identify the majority of confirmed cases after hospitalization and has achieved zero transmission within six weeks of the start of the new crown outbreak among health-care workers and patients.
截至3月8日，在香港特区卫生署公布的新冠肺炎感染115人中，没有医护人员感染。
As at March 8, none of the 115 new cases of pneumonia reported by the Department of Health of the HKSAR had been infected by medical staff.
特区政府的警惕中国香港特区政府部门对新冠肺炎保持着密切关注，反应迅速。
The HKSAR Government is alert to the close attention and prompt response of the HKSAR Government.
2019年12月31日，香港医院管理局即启动了感染控制措施。
Infection control measures were initiated by the Hong Kong Hospital Authority on 31 December 2019.
依据的是香港的传染病感染控制准备计划。
It is based on Hong Kong's Infection Control Preparedness Plan.
采取的措施包括对所有可疑病例进行早期识别、隔离、通报和分子诊断等。
Measures taken include the early identification, isolation, notification and molecular diagnosis of all suspected cases.
香港医院管理局是香港所有43家公立医院的理事机构，负责香港90％的住院服务。
The Hong Kong Hospital Authority is the governing body of all 43 public hospitals in Hong Kong and is responsible for 90% of hospital services in Hong Kong.
在实验室确认患者感染新冠病毒后，感染控制小组（infection control team）立即跟进，以识别医护人员和暴露的患者，这基本上是按照香港的甲型H7N9禽流感的接触者追踪协议进行的。
After laboratory confirmation of infection with the new crown virus, the Infection Control Team (Infection Control Team) immediately followed up to identify medical staff and exposed patients, largely in accordance with the Contact Trace Protocol for Avian Influenza A H7N9 in Hong Kong.
香港特区卫生署，是负责执行香港政府的健康护理政策的部门。
The Department of Health of the HKSAR is responsible for the implementation of Hong Kong's health care policy.
它下属的卫生防护中心有一套恒常的疾病监测系统、感染控制及化验诊断服务。
Its Centre for Health Protection (CHP) has an ongoing disease surveillance system, infection control and laboratory diagnostic services.
在对抗传染病方面，该机构的目标是实时监测、迅速反应和适时通报风险。
In the fight against infectious diseases, the Agency's objectives are real-time surveillance, rapid response and timely risk communication.
自中国内地出现新冠肺炎确诊个案以来，香港特区卫生署卫生防护中心一直密切关注，与国家卫健委保持紧密联系，实时跟进最新情况。
The Centre for Health Protection (CHP) of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Department of Health has been closely monitoring the situation since the confirmation of CHP cases in the Mainland of China.
“从去年12月31日起通过新闻公报、信函、专题网页等，提醒市民、旅客及公私营医疗机构有关情况。
"Since 31 December last year, the public, visitors and public and private medical institutions have been reminded of the situation through press releases, letters, special websites, etc.
”香港卫生署发言人告诉《财经》记者。
A spokesman for the Hong Kong Department of Health told Caijing.
从2019年12月31日起，卫生防护中心就不断提醒居民，从外地回港后，若出现发烧或其他病症，应立即求诊，告诉医生最近曾到访的地方，并佩戴外科口罩，以防传染他人。
Since 31 December 2019, the Centre for Health Protection (CHP) has been reminding residents to seek medical advice immediately if they develop fever or other symptoms after returning from overseas, to inform doctors of the places they have recently visited and to wear surgical masks so as not to infect others.
同时，提示本地居民注意洗手，打喷嚏或咳嗽时用纸巾掩盖口鼻，避免去人多的地方，注意症状，尽早就诊。
At the same time, local residents are reminded to wash their hands, cover their mouths and noses with tissue paper when sneezing or coughing.
2020年1月初，虽然当时香港并未发现与武汉相关的严重肺炎个案，但1月2日，香港政府已就武汉肺炎病例群组个案举行跨部门会议，严阵以待确保在有需要时尽快应变，并提示各有关部门提高警觉和做好准备。
Although no serious cases of Wuhan-related pneumonia were detected in Hong Kong at the beginning of January 2020, the Hong Kong Government held an inter-departmental meeting on the Wuhan Pneumonia Cluster case on 2 January to ensure that the response is timely when necessary, and to alert and prepare the departments concerned.
1月2日提及的防控措施，包括向学校致函，呼吁加强个人及环境卫生措施等。
The prevention and control measures mentioned on 2 January included a letter to schools calling for the strengthening of personal and environmental health measures.
香港医管局也提醒一线医护人员，包括18所地区中医教研中心的人员，加强留意不明原因肺炎求诊病人的临床情况，包括是否有发烧及急性呼吸道感染，或者肺炎症状，病发前14天是否去过武汉市街市或海鲜市场。
The Hospital Authority has also reminded frontline medical staff, including staff of 18 district Chinese medicine teaching and research centres, to pay more attention to the clinical conditions of patients seeking treatment for unexplained pneumonia, including whether they have fever and acute respiratory infection or pneumonia, and whether they have visited Wuhan city market or seafood market 14 days before the onset of symptoms.
1月3日开始，香港国际机场增设额外的红外线热像仪，专为从武汉市抵港飞机的旅客作体温监测。
An additional infrared thermal imager was installed at HKIA on 3 January to monitor the temperature of passengers arriving from Wuhan city.
在所有出入境管制站，包括高铁香港西九龙站发现的急性呼吸道症状的发烧旅客，如病发前14天曾去过武汉街市或海鲜市场，将会即时转至公立医院接受隔离治疗及跟进。
Fever travellers with acute respiratory symptoms found at all immigration control points, including the MTR West Kowloon Station, who have visited Wuhan Market or Seafood Market 14 days before the onset of illness, will be immediately referred to public hospitals for isolation treatment and follow-up.
2月7日，香港居民李帆进香港时，通关口岸已受到限制，“平常都是在罗湖口岸过关，当时是从深圳湾口岸通过的”。
On February 7, when Hong Kong resident Li Fan entered Hong Kong, the port of entry was restricted. "Normally, it was at Lo Wu crossing that it was through the Shenzhen Bay Port."
2月4日零时零分起，香港特区政府关闭了包括罗湖口岸、福田口岸、皇岗口岸、港澳客运码头口岸在内的4个口岸。
From 0000 hours on February 4, the HKSAR Government closed four ports, including Lo Wu Port, Futian Port, Huanggang Port, and Macau Ferry Terminal Port.
李帆看到，过关的旅客们戴着口罩，在大陆和香港海关双侧都接受了体温检测和健康卡登记，在香港一侧填写的健康卡内容是在港住址、个人联系方式等。
Mr Li noted that passengers wearing masks had had their body temperature checked and health cards registered on both sides of the Mainland and the Customs and Excise Department. The health cards filled in on the Hong Kong side were addresses, personal contact details, etc.
此前，香港特别行政区行政长官林郑月娥宣布，从2月1日起，将在罗湖口岸和深圳湾口岸率先实行健康申报制度。
Earlier, the Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, Mrs Carrie Lam, announced that she would be the first to implement the health declaration system at Lo Wu Port and Shenzhen Bay Port from February 1.
早在1月4日，香港公布《对公共卫生有重要性的新型传染病准备及应变计划》（下称《应变计划》），并同时启动严重应变级别，即时生效。
As early as 4 January, Hong Kong announced the New Infectious Disease Preparedness and Response Plan (the Contingency Plan) of public health importance and activated the Serious Response Level with immediate effect.
香港卫生署回应《财经》记者称，当时即启动了《应变计划》，是基于多种因素考量。
In response to Caijing, the Hong Kong Department of Health (DH) said that the Contingency Plan was launched at that time.
考量的因素，包括患者的病情情况，例如严重并发症、住院及死亡情况；疫情的变化轨迹；疾病的传播能力，能否人传人，能否造成持续性社区暴发；疫情的传播地域；病媒在本地存活的情况；人群中易受感染的情况；是否有任何预防措施，例如疫苗和可行的治疗；以及来自国际，如世界卫生组织的建议。
Factors to be considered include the patient's condition, such as severe complications, hospitalization and death; the course of the epidemic; the ability of the disease to spread from person to person; the persistence of community outbreaks; the geographical spread of the outbreak; the survival of vectors locally; the vulnerability of populations; the availability of any preventive measures, such as vaccines and feasible treatments; and recommendations from international sources such as the World Health Organization.
中国香港特区政府在1月8日将“严重新型传染性病原体呼吸系统病”纳入法定须呈报传染病。
The Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of China (HKSAR) introduced SARS into the statutory notifiable infectious disease on January 8.
医生如怀疑有个案，便须向香港卫生署呈报。
Doctors should report suspected cases to the Department of Health of Hong Kong.
随着疫情的变化，香港卫生署卫生防护中心按风险评估，在不断修订监测准则，扩大监测范围，并按情况提升港口卫生措施，以期更有效地应对可能出现的风险。
As the epidemic changes, the Centre for Health Protection (CHP) of the Department of Health of the Hong Kong Department of Health (DH) is continuously revising the surveillance guidelines to enhance surveillance and upgrade port hygiene measures as appropriate to better address possible risks.
“卫生防护中心会继续密切监测本地、内地以及海外的情况，继续跟进本地确诊病例的流行病学调查及接触者追踪的工作，并做好本地各项检疫工作。
"The Centre for Health Protection (CHP) will continue to closely monitor the situation in Hong Kong, the Mainland and overseas, continue to follow up the epidemiological investigation and contact tracing of locally confirmed cases and do all the quarantine work locally.
”香港卫生署发言人称。
A spokesman for the Department of Health said.
除隔离者，市民生活如常2月3日，香港政府宣布，14天内曾到过湖北省的香港居民返港后，须进行居家检疫，并戴上电子手环。
On February 3, the Hong Kong Government announced that Hong Kong residents who had visited Hubei Province within 14 days would be required to undergo quarantine and wear electronic bracelets after returning to Hong Kong.
这是为防止隔离者在家隔离期间擅自外出，这个手环不能随便脱下，并与相关手机设备连接。
This is to prevent the isolation of the person during home isolation, this ring can not be taken off casually, and connected to the relevant mobile phone equipment.
手机或手环如被破坏，或者手机被带出去，相关设备会即时通知香港卫生署和警方跟进。
If a mobile phone or bracelet is damaged or the mobile phone is taken out, the relevant equipment will be immediately notified to the DH and the Police for follow-up.
香港卫生署首席医生连慰慈说，根据《预防及控制疾病条例》，接受强制检疫的人要在指定时间留在指定地方，违者可被监禁六个月及罚款5000港币，政府会严厉执法。
Under the Prevention and Control of Disease Ordinance, a person under compulsory quarantine is liable to six months' imprisonment and a fine of HK $5,000, the Chief Medical Officer of the Hong Kong Department of Health said.
在香港，新冠肺炎患者的密切接触者同样需要被隔离14天。
In Hong Kong, close contacts of patients with Newcastle pneumonia also require 14 days of isolation.
在14天隔离期结束后，进行14天医疗监视。
At the end of the 14-day isolation period, medical surveillance is carried out for 14 days.
医疗监视期间，建议他们在医院和社区戴口罩。
During medical surveillance, they are advised to wear masks in hospitals and communities.
“大家的防范意识增强了，在任何公共场所都要戴上口罩。
"Everyone has become more aware of the need to wear masks in all public places.
”正在香港读硕士的张可对《财经》记者描述，一些店的门口会贴“进店请戴口罩”。
Zhang, who is studying for a master's degree in Hong Kong, told Caijing that "Please wear a mask when you come in" at the door of some shops.
“我朋友今天把口罩拉到脖子上一会儿的功夫，一个小姑娘指着他问“怎么不带口罩”。
"My friend pulled a mask around his neck for a while today, and a little girl pointed to him and asked," Why don't you wear a mask? "
香港市民的对个人卫生颇为注意。
People in Hong Kong pay attention to personal hygiene.
戴口罩一直是港人的一个好习惯，平常感冒，个人会自觉地在出门见人时戴口罩。
Wearing face masks has always been a good habit in Hong Kong. When you have a cold, you will wear a mask when you go out.
现在口罩的价格水涨船高。
The price of masks is soaring now.
张可告诉《财经》记者，一些商铺口罩数量充足，价格却成倍增长。
Zhang told Caijing that the number of masks in some shops is plentiful, but the price has increased exponentially.
“1月21日买的第一盒50个装普通口罩价格仅为55港币（约49元人民币），1月23日左右开始涨至100港币，春节过后涨至200港币左右，前两天去商店买了一盒普通口罩，花了268港币（约240元人民币）”，从韩国进口的KF94口罩甚至高达1800港币（约1605元人民币）。
"The first 50-pack of ordinary face masks bought on January 21 cost only 55 Hong Kong dollars (49 yuan), rose to around 100 Hong Kong dollars around January 23, rose to about 200 Hong Kong dollars after the Spring Festival, bought a box of ordinary masks at the store for 268 Hong Kong dollars (240 yuan) the other day, and imported 1,800 Hong Kong dollars (about 1,605 yuan) from South Korea.
一位从珠海移居香港多年的女士在朋友圈中看到武汉疫情，于2月初，通过网上支付在武汉买了200件防护服，并请武汉朋友帮忙捐献给两家武汉的医院和一家养老院。
A woman who has emigrated from Zhuhai to Hong Kong for many years saw the epidemic in Wuhan among her friends. In early February, she paid for 200 pieces of protective clothing online and asked Wuhan friends to help donate them to two Wuhan hospitals and a nursing home.
在内地疫情最紧张的时期，香港的一些物资也出现紧张。
At the height of the epidemic in the Mainland, Hong Kong's supplies were also strained.
李帆说，“只要商铺门口有排队的人，大部分都是在买口罩的。
'Most people in line at the door are buying masks, 'says Mr. Li.
酒精同样不容易买到，价钱也比较高”，超市也出现抢购潮，“卫生纸、米等日常生活物资可以说是抢购一空”。
Alcohol is also not easy to buy, the price is relatively high, "supermarket also appeared rush," toilet paper, rice and other daily necessities can be said to be snapped up.
新冠疫情暴发两个多月来，在香港读研究生的张可眼中，多数香港市民的生活并没有因为突如其来的疫情受到较大影响。
In the more than two months since the outbreak of the New Crown Epidemic, the lives of the majority of Hong Kong people have not been greatly affected by the sudden outbreak of the disease.
进入3月，随着疫情在全球加速蔓延，香港特区的高校加强了对疫情高发区来往人员的限制。
In March, as the epidemic accelerated around the world, universities in the HKSAR tightened restrictions on the movement of people to and from high-prevalence areas.
3月3日，张可所在的学校发来的通知邮件显示，“为了保护大学社区的健康，从3月4日上午5时开始，曾去往中国大陆、韩国、意大利（艾米利亚-罗马涅、伦巴第和威尼托地区）、日本、新加坡以及伊朗的学生、教职工及访客，在完成14天居家隔离前不得进入校园。
"To protect the health of the university community, students, faculty, staff and visitors from mainland China, the Republic of Korea, Italy (Emilia-Romagna, Lombardy and Veneto), Japan, Singapore and Iran were barred from entering the campus until they had completed 14 days of residential segregation, according to a notice sent by Zhang's school on March 3
”学校也不建议外地学生返校。
The school also does not recommend returning non-resident students.
复课不可避免地耽搁了，2月17日，有香港高校开始网上授课。
The resumption of classes has inevitably been delayed, and on February 17, Hong Kong colleges and universities began to teach online.
面授课程的恢复时间则一直往后推，显得遥遥无期。
The recovery time for face-to-face courses has been postponed for a long time.
吸取SARS抗疫经验据中国香港特区医管局3月8日介绍，当日下午有一名新冠肺炎确诊患者离世，香港累计死亡病例增至3人。
Hong Kong SAR Hospital on March 8 reported the death of a confirmed SARS patient that afternoon, bringing the total number of deaths in Hong Kong to three.
2003年SARS疫情时，香港人口约680万。
At the time of the SARS outbreak in 2003, Hong Kong had a population of about 6.8 million.
SARS疫情历时超过三个月，香港共1755人感染，其中300人不治身亡。
The SARS outbreak lasted more than three months and infected 1,755 people in Hong Kong, 300 of whom died.
从新冠疫情早期宣布开始，香港卫生部门、医院在各个环节上反复参考当年SARS经验。
From the early announcement of the new crown epidemic, Hong Kong health authorities, hospitals in various links repeatedly referred to the SARS experience.
香港在2003年5月28日公布成立严重急性呼吸综合征专家委员会（下称“SARS专家委员会”），负责检讨医护体制的效能，不到5个月后，一份以《汲取经验防患未然》为题的调查报告公布，共253页。
Hong Kong announced the establishment of the Expert Committee on Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS Expert Committee) on 28 May 2003 to review the effectiveness of the health care system. Less than five months later, a 253-page study entitled "Learning from Experience Before You Know" was published.
这份报告坦陈，在疫情初期，香港对这个疾病及成因所知甚少的时候，无疑在体制方面出现了一些明显的缺失，随着疫情蔓延，一些担任要职的人员也感染上SARS病毒，令问题变得严重。
The report acknowledges that when Hong Kong had little knowledge of the disease and its causes in the early stages of the epidemic, there were no doubt significant institutional deficiencies, which were exacerbated by the spread of the epidemic and the spread of the SARS virus to a number of persons in key positions.
例如，2003年2月24日，香港卫生署在调查来自广州的已感染SARS病毒的教授的接触史时，仅追查了曾与患者有密切接触的人士，而不是患者停留过的地方，以致后期有多人感染，3月8日才开始在该教授到访过的酒店追查与其曾接触过的人员，对疫情发展无补于事。
For example, on 24 February 2003, the Hong Kong Department of Health (DH), in investigating the history of contact of a professor from Guangzhou who had contracted the SARS virus, traced only those who had been in close contact with the patient, rather than where the patient had stayed, leading to multiple infections in the latter period.
回顾SARS疫情，香港威尔斯亲王医院处理疫情的手法也受到不少批评。
Looking back at the SARS outbreak, the treatment of the outbreak at the Prince of Wales Hospital in Hong Kong has also been criticized.
2003年3月10日，威尔斯亲王医院的管理层接到报告，在8A病房工作的11名医护人员同时休病假，医院内暴发疫症才开始为人所知。
On 10 March 2003, the management of Prince of Wales Hospital received reports that 11 medical staff working in Ward 8A were on sick leave at the same time and that the outbreak of disease in the hospital had only begun to become known.
同日该医院关闭8A病房，不再接收病人。
The hospital closed ward 8A on the same day and no longer received patients.
SARS专家委员会认为，在有关医院运作的决定这一问题上，医院没有预先制定疫症防控计划，加上威尔斯亲王医院就疫症控制措施作出重要决定时缺乏香港卫生署人员的参与，不利于疫情处理。
The SARS Expert Committee considered that the lack of a pre-established control plan for the hospital in relation to the decision on the operation of the hospital, coupled with the lack of involvement of staff of the Hong Kong Department of Health in the important decision of the Prince of Wales Hospital on control measures, was not conducive to the management of the outbreak.
2003年3月11日，香港卫生署才从媒体的报道中得知威尔斯亲王医院疫情暴发，但没有参与医院运作和关闭医院事宜的讨论。
It was only on 11 March 2003 that the Department of Health of Hong Kong learned from media reports of an outbreak at Prince of Wales Hospital, but was not involved in discussions on the operation of the hospital and its closure.
卫生署与医管局之间缺乏以人口为本的共识，在疫情初期也没有充分了解传染病对社区产生的影响。
There was a lack of population-based consensus between DH and HA, and the impact of infectious diseases on the community was not fully understood in the early stages of the outbreak.
中国香港特区卫生署与威尔斯亲王医院在工作层面上的个案资料通报，初时颇为混乱，所采用的资料管理系统未能应付大规模疫情的需要，不胜负荷。
At the working level, the Department of Health of the Hong Kong SAR of China and the Prince of Wales Hospital (Prince of Wales Hospital) had initially been disorganized and their information management systems had not been able to cope with the demands of a large-scale outbreak.
总而言之，这份报告指出，医院的感染控制架构存在弱点，员工在感控方面训练不足，医院病房的设计、床距和通风设备方面环境欠佳，设备不足，缺乏既定的传染病控制计划或沟通政策，以及医管局、卫生署和大学各自的任务和职责没有清晰的界定。
Overall, the report noted weaknesses in the infection control structure of hospitals, inadequate training of staff in sensitivity control, poor design, bed spacing and ventilation in hospital wards, inadequate equipment, lack of an established infectious disease control plan or communication policy, and lack of a clear definition of the respective roles and responsibilities of HA, DH and the University.
政府如何为公众提供准确信息，也是反思之一。
How governments can provide accurate information to the public is also part of this reflection.
此报告提出，政府一方面要设法安抚公众和消除公众的恐惧，但同时又不可以让公众掉以轻心，必须小心平衡这两方面。
The report argues that the government must strike a careful balance between trying to appease the public and allay its fears, while not allowing the public to take it lightly.
这是由于，时任中国香港特区卫生福利及食物局局长曾表示，在2003年3月14日回应媒体询问SARS是否在社区暴发时，解释了个案的数字，并指出据观察所得，未有发现肺炎个案整体数目不寻常的增加。
This was due to the fact that the then Secretary for Health, Welfare and Food of the Hong Kong SAR of China had explained the number of cases in response to media enquiries on whether SARS had broken out in the community on 14 March 2003 and noted that no unusual increase in the overall number of pneumonia cases had been observed.
这一消息的可信度引起公众质疑。
The credibility of the news raised public questions.
回顾此事，SARS专家委员会认为，卫生福利及食物局局长的这一措辞应该更为审慎，这类技巧性问题应由卫生署负责公共卫生事务的高级人员回答。
Recalling this, the SARS Expert Committee considered that the Secretary for Health, Welfare and Food should be more circumspect in this wording and that such technical questions should be answered by the senior public health officer of the Department of Health.
2003年3月27日SARS被列入应通报的疾病名单中，若早一点列入，可能有助于提高公众的警觉性。
The inclusion of SARS on the notifiable disease list on 27 March 2003 could have helped to raise public awareness.
对SARS疫情的反思，覆盖了政府、医院、社区等各方面。
Reflection on SARS epidemic, covering the government, hospitals, communities and other aspects.
在香港抗SARS病毒的过程中，“淘大花园”是一个不能绕开的案例。
In Hong Kong's fight against the SARS virus, "Taobao Garden" is a case that cannot be circumvented.
来自威尔斯亲王医院的源头病人，很可能首先传染了淘大花园E座一小部分居民，然后经由污水系统、人与人接触和使用公共设施，令该座其他居民受到感染。
The source patients from Prince of Wales Hospital are likely to have first infected a small proportion of the residents of Taobao Garden, then infected the rest of the population through the sewage system, human-to-human contact and access to public facilities.
这些居民接着通过人与人接触和环境污染，把SARS传染给E座内外的其他人。
These residents then spread SARS to others inside and outside Block E through human contact and environmental pollution.
在对该病人进行流行病学调查上，有所延误。
There was a delay in the epidemiological investigation of the patient.
流行病学调查最初只集中在个别的SARS个案，而非所有淘大花园居民。
Epidemiological investigations initially focused on individual SARS cases rather than on all Taobao residents.
政府在人手方面和实地流行病学的知识都有不足，导致初期流行病学调查的目标含糊、进度缓慢。
The Government's knowledge of human resources and field epidemiology is inadequate, resulting in vague and slow progress in the initial epidemiological investigation.
2003年3月26日，香港医管局指定玛嘉烈医院做为处理SARS的医院。
On 26 March 2003, HA designated Princess Margaret Hospital as the Hospital for SARS treatment.
在第一个星期，玛嘉烈医院每日接收的新增SARS患者平均超过70人，当中不少病人病重和需要接受深度治疗。
During the first week, the hospital received an average of over 70 new SARS patients per day, many of whom were seriously ill and required in-depth treatment.
由于未能预计会突然出现大量患者，且患者主要来自淘大花园，玛嘉烈医院的医务人员和专业知识都被推到极限，这加大了医护人员受到传染的风险。
The failure to anticipate the sudden influx of patients, mainly from the Taobao Gardens, pushed medical staff and expertise to the limit, increasing the risk of transmission to health-care personnel.
SARS专家委员会认为，指定玛嘉烈医院作为处理SARS的医院在当时是合理的，但在淘大花园的疫情规模明朗化时，应作检讨并重新考虑这项安排。
The SARS Expert Committee considered that the designation of Princess Margaret Hospital as the hospital for SARS treatment was reasonable at the time, but that this arrangement should be reviewed and reconsidered when the scale of the outbreak in Taobao Gardens became clear.
根据世界卫生组织2003年8月15日提供的数据，中国香港特区的综合征个案死亡率是17.1%，高于中国内地的6.6%，低于中国台湾的27.1%。
According to data provided by the World Health Organization on 15 August 2003, the case fatality rate in HKSAR is 17.1 per cent, higher than the 6.6 per cent in mainland China and 27.1 per cent in Taiwan, China.
即便剔除年龄因素后，香港SARS患者的标准化死亡比仍远高于内地。
Even after taking age into account, the standardised death rate for SARS patients in Hong Kong is still much higher than in the Mainland.
差异原因未明，但病患个案的确认工作是否完整，诊断是否正确，治疗方法是否有效，是否有使用中药治疗，以及年长者所得到照顾的方式等因素，均值得探讨。
The reasons for the difference are not clear, but it is worth exploring whether the patient identification process is complete, whether the diagnosis is correct, whether the treatment is effective, whether there is treatment with traditional Chinese medicine, and the way in which care is provided to the elderly.
SARS专家委员会认为，作为初次出现的新疾病，须根据当时掌握的知识和资料，来审慎评估决策过程和决定，才公平合理。
The SARS Expert Committee considered that, as a new emerging disease, it was only fair that the decision-making process and decisions should be carefully assessed on the basis of the knowledge and information available at the time.
SARS疫情初期，医院体制无疑出现了一些缺失，必须从中汲取经验，加强公共卫生的工作，改善卫生医护界各方面协调，厘清各部门职责，改善彼此沟通。
In the early stages of the SARS epidemic, there were undoubtedly some deficiencies in the hospital system. Lessons must be drawn from them to strengthen public health efforts, improve the coordination of all aspects of the health care sector, clarify the responsibilities of different departments and improve communication among them.
由于重视这项检讨工作的独立性和透明度，《汲取经验防患未然》在2003年10月2日公开发布。
In recognition of the importance attached to the independence and transparency of the review, Lessons Learned from Prevention was released publicly on 2 October 2003.
（文中张可，李帆为化名）▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
For more information about the outbreak, see photo below: Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
从超50%医护人员感染SARS，到新冠院内零感染，香港做了什么。
What has been done in Hong Kong from over 50% of health care workers infected with SARS to zero infection in the Crown Colony.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "从超50%医护人员感染SARS，到新冠院内零感染，香港做了什么";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; &
var msg_desc = "医疗卫生部门和研究人员提早入手，并在第一时间告知市民，同时吸取了SARS疫情时期的经验，对医院内感染尤为注意，正是此次中国香港特区抗击新冠疫情值得称道之处";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
