多省复工率开始大幅“回血”，中国离全面复工复产还有多远?。
The rate of resumption of work in many provinces began to "return to the blood", China is still far from full resumption of production.
张欣培 姚佳莹。
Zhang Xinpei Yao Jia Ying.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
疫情防控与企业复工复产在各地同步推进，虽然进度不一，但复工复产的范围在逐步扩大各地政策的助力，加上交通网络的逐步恢复，企业复工复产正步入轨道。
The prevention and control of the epidemic and the resumption of industrial production are progressing simultaneously in various places, although at different rates. However, the scope for the resumption of work is gradually expanding the support of local policies, and the gradual restoration of the transportation network is putting enterprises back on track.
图/IC文|《财经》记者 张欣培 姚佳莹编辑|鲁伟2月19日22时30分，在“中国制造”最大的生产基地广东东莞，李文（化名）终于等来了可以复工复产的通知。
At 2230 hours on February 19, Li Wen (alias), Caijing's biggest manufacturing base in Dongguan, Guangdong, was finally notified that he could resume work.
李文的工厂位于东莞一家产业园，拥有员工将近300人，接到复工复产的通知后，李文立刻通知员工第二天上班。
Li Wen's factory in Dongguan, an industrial park with nearly 300 employees, was given notice to return to work, Li Wen immediately informed employees to work the next day.
尽管比往年晚了10多天才开工，但能作为园区第二批复工的四家企业之一，李文已经非常满意。
Despite starting work more than 10 days later than in previous years, Li is already satisfied with being one of the four companies returning to work as part of the second group.
同样是在2月19日，浙江义乌的小企业主王芳（化名）也接到了可以复工复产的通知，“复工申请比较简易。
Also on February 19th, Wang Fang, a small business owner in Yiwu, Zhejiang province, received a notice that he could resume work.
主要是向街道递交申请资料，接到审批后就可以正式复工了。
Mainly to the street to submit the application information, after receiving approval can be formally resumed work.
”王芳告诉《财经》记者。
Wang told Caijing.
义乌政府部门为了助力企业复工复产，出台的多次举措备受企业好评。
Yiwu government departments in order to help enterprises resume production, a number of initiatives have been well received by enterprises.
虽然进度不一，但疫情防控与复工复产正在各地同步推进。
Although the progress is not uniform, but the disease control and resumption of production is advancing in parallel everywhere.
2020年2月25日，在国务院联防联控新闻发布会上，国家发改委社会司司长欧晓理表示，低风险地区以防止输入性病例为主，全面恢复生产生活秩序，取消道路通行限制，不得对企业复工复产设置条件，拖延复工复产的时间；中风险地区实施外防输入、内防扩散的策略，疫情防控与企业复工复产同步推进；高风险地区则延续严格管控的政策，以疫情防控为主，逐步扩大复工复产范围。
On February 25, 2020, the Secretary for Social Affairs of the National Development and Reform Commission, Xiaoli Ou, said that low-risk areas mainly prevent imported cases, restore order to production and life, remove restrictions on road access, impose conditions on the resumption of work and delay the resumption of production.
各地企业复工复产进入快车道，范围也在逐步扩大。
Enterprises across the country to resume production into the fast lane, the scope is also gradually expanding.
然而，在产业链紧密连接的情况下，上下游没有同步复工，将给企业经营带来压力。
However, in the case of the industrial chain closely linked, the upstream and downstream do not synchronize the resumption of work, will bring pressure to enterprise operations.
相较于大型企业的资源动员能力，中小企业所受影响将更为明显。
The impact on SMEs would be more pronounced than on the resource mobilization capacity of large enterprises.
全面复工复产还有多远？复工复产进行时在接到通知可以复工复产之前，李文和他的工厂经历了一场相对艰难的考验。
How far is it to resume full-scale operation? Before resuming work at short notice, Li and his factory went through a relatively difficult ordeal.
李文工厂所在的产业园面积约1.5平方公里，聚集着数十家企业，员工总人数近2000人，疫情防控压力较大。
Liwen Factory is located in an industrial park area of about 1.5 square kilometers, gathered dozens of enterprises, the total number of employees nearly 2,000, disease prevention and control pressure.
“原计划的上班时间是2月10日，就近员工已经提前返回了，严重疫区的员工暂不返回，但是园区一直在推迟上班时间。
"The planned work week was Feb. 10, and the nearby workers had already returned early. Employees from severely affected areas did not return for the time being, but the campus has been putting off working hours.
”李文向《财经》记者表示。
Mr Li told Caijing.
为了尽快复工，在接到需递交复工复产申请的通知后，李文便开始全方位准备。
In order to resume work as soon as possible, after receiving notification of the resumption of work applications, Lee began to prepare all-round.
让他苦恼的是，申请材料需不断修改。
What bothers him is that the application materials need to be constantly revised.
“疫情在不断变化，所以政府规定也在变，我们就需要不断更新相关资料。
"The epidemic is changing, so government regulations are changing, and we need to keep it up to date.
今天刚把资料递交上去，第二天又得重新修改。
I just submitted the data today, and I have to revise it the next day.
刚改完，又一个资料发过来。
Just finished, another file was sent.
反反复复改了好多次。
Repeated over and over again.
”“第一批只有三家企业的复工申请获得通过。
"" Only three of the first applications for reinstatement were approved.
我们园区太大了，如果发现确诊案例就可能全部停工隔离，损失太大了。
Our park is too big. If we find a confirmed case, we may all shut down and isolate, the loss is too great.
”李文向《财经》记者表示，前期审核十分严格可以理解，后期审批可能会相对宽松。
Mr Li told Caijing that the previous review was very strict and understandable and that later approval could be relatively easy.
与李文颇费周折才拿到“批文”不同，王芳的企业相对顺利就获准复工复产了。
Li Wen took a lot of trouble to get "approval" different, Wang Fang's enterprise relatively smooth on the resumption of work.
2月19日，王芳递交的复工复产申请获得通过，2月20日，她一整天都在外购买消毒水、口罩、手套、体温计，为复工复产做着准备。
On Feb. 19, Wang Fang's application for resumption of work was approved, and on February 20, she spent the whole day outside buying disinfectant water, masks, gloves, thermometers to prepare for the resumption of work.
“第一批复工的主要是义乌的大型企业，我们是第二批。
"The first to resume work were mainly large enterprises in Yiwu, and we are the second group.
义乌由众多小镇组成，我们镇疫情较轻，复工申请比较简易。
Yiwu is composed of many small towns, our town epidemic situation is relatively light, the resumption of work application is relatively simple.
主要是向街道递交申请资料，接到审批后就可以正式复工了。
Mainly to the street to submit the application information, after receiving approval can be formally resumed work.
”王芳告诉《财经》记者。
Wang told Caijing.
此外，义乌除了第一批开工的企业员工返回需隔离外，疫情较轻地区的员工只要有当地开具的健康证明，到达义乌后便无需隔离。
In addition, apart from the return of employees from the first enterprises to be quarantined in Yiwu, employees from less affected areas will not need to be segregated upon arrival in Yiwu as long as they have a locally issued health certificate.
除了复工程序相对简易，义乌的政府部门还送出了助力企业复工的“大礼包”。
In addition to the resumption process is relatively simple, Yiwu government departments also sent out to help enterprises return to work "big gift package."
2月16日，义乌市人社局和财政局联合推出《关于应对新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情加强企业用工保障的意见》，全额补助企业通过包车、企业间拼车等方式接送来源地相对集中的员工所产生的包车费用，此外，对自行返义、自驾返义的员工给予相应补贴。
On February 16, the Yiwu Municipal Bureau of Social Welfare and the Ministry of Finance jointly issued the Opinions on Handling the New Coronavirus Pneumonia to Enhance Enterprise Employment Security, which fully subsidizes the cost of transporting employees from relatively concentrated areas of origin to and from enterprises through car-charter and inter-enterprise carpooling.
“实际上，员工回到义乌存在难度。
"In fact, it's difficult to get people back to Yiwu.
可能买不到票，也可能当地不放人，但是义乌政府会帮忙协调。
Tickets may not be available or may not be released locally, but the Government of Yiwu will help coordinate.
如果某个区域人特别多，政府会派车集中去接。
If a region is particularly crowded, the government sends cars to pick it up.
”王芳告诉《财经》记者。
Wang told Caijing.
根据义乌市广播电视台公布的信息，从2月16日至27日，累计到达“义乌号”就业大巴406辆，接回员工14598名；到达火车专列7列，接回员工5441名。
From February 16 to 27, a total of 406 "Yiwu" employment buses arrived and 14,598 employees were taken back, and 7 train lines were taken back, with 5,441 employees returned, according to information released by Yiwu Radio and Television.
通过补贴政策激励，企业包车、个人自驾车回义员工累计13万人左右。
Through the subsidy policy incentives, enterprises charter cars, personal self-driving workers have accumulated about 130,000.
2月17日，国务院联防联控机制印发文件，要求各地依据人口、发病情况，科学划分疫情风险等级，进行分级分类防控。
On 17 February, the Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism of the State Council issued a document requesting all localities to scientifically classify and control epidemic diseases according to population and disease conditions.
截至2月24日，已有六省降低应急响应，其中，甘肃、辽宁、贵州、云南四省将突发公共卫生事件应急响应级别由一级调整为三级，山西、广东由一级调整为二级。
As of February 24, six provinces had reduced their emergency response, including Gansu, Liaoning, Guizhou and Yunnan provinces, which adjusted the emergency response level of public health emergencies from one to three, and Shanxi and Guangdong from one to two.
与此同时，连接各地的交通脉络也逐步恢复正常。
At the same time, the lines of communication connecting the various areas are gradually returning to normal.
据交通运输部公布的数据，截至2月24日，27个省份已恢复省际省内客运班线或包车。
According to data released by the Ministry of Transport, as at 24 February, 27 provinces had resumed passenger flights or charters in the interprovincial provinces.
此前为了疫情防控需要，在高速公路省界、服务区、出入口、普通国省干线、客运站、客运码头设置的卫生检疫站，截至2月24日，已由2月20日的全国大概1.7万处，减少了约9000处，还有约8000处。
As of February 24, the number of sanitary and quarantine stations set up in expressway provinces, service areas, entrances and exits, trunk lines in ordinary provinces, passenger stations and passenger terminals had decreased by about 9,000 places, or about 8,000 places, from about 17,000 places in China on February 20.
各地政策的助力，加上交通网络的逐步恢复，企业复工复产正步入轨道。
With the help of local policies and the gradual restoration of the transportation network, enterprises are back to work and are on track.
物流命脉待激活目前，王芳所在的义乌国际小商品市场1区、2区已经复工，“虽然复工，但是上班的也仅是部分，而且目前客户十分有限。
Logistics lifeline to be activated at present, Wang Fang's Yiwu International Commodity Market 1, 2 has resumed work, "although the resumption of work, but only part of the work, and the current customers are very limited.
”王芳向《财经》记者表示。
Wang told Caijing.
原因之一是物流行业尚未完全复工。
One reason is that the logistics industry has not yet fully resumed work.
“从道路解封到仓库、办公场所解封，再到如今的劳动力解封，复工复产是一个逐渐释放的过程。
"From the unsealing of roads to warehouses and offices to the release of today's workforce, the resumption of work is a gradual release process.
”谈及对企业复工的观察，云鸟配送CEO韩毅向《财经》记者表示。
"Turning to observation of the resumption of work, Yunnan distribution CEO Han Yi told Caijing.
韩毅所处的物流行业属于春节后正常上班的四类行业之一，2月3日开工始，韩毅几乎经历了企业复工复产面临的一切难关：从车辆无法通行、配送仓库封闭、防疫保障物资不足，到办公场所封闭、司机无法到岗。
From the start of the work on February 3, Han Yi experienced almost all the difficulties faced by enterprises returning to work: the impassability of vehicles, the closure of distribution depots, the shortage of epidemic prevention supplies, the closure of office space and the inability of drivers to get back to work.
他坦言：“作为物资保障行业，上物流和供应链公司复工太难了。
"It's too difficult for the logistics and supply chain companies to get back to work as a material support industry," he said frankly.
一切在慢慢好转，但恢复正常还需一段时间。
Things are slowly improving, but it will take some time to get back to normal.
”韩毅坦言，开工至今，几乎每周都有困扰企业复工复产的核心问题。
Mr. Han confessed that construction has so far been at the heart of almost every week's problems in getting companies back to work.
第一周是货车通行一趟需要四五个通行证，第二周是进不了办公场所，现在则是货车司机无法到岗的问题——大部分货车司机来自农村地区。
The first week required four or five permits for lorries to pass, the second week to get into office space, and now it was the lack of access for truck drivers, most of whom came from rural areas.
一项涉及全国16个省份80个县近百个村庄的调研数据显示，全国大部分地区农村劳动力流动仍处于封闭状态，尽管实行分区分级的差异化防疫策略，但部分风险程度不同的地区，防疫政策并无明显差异，总体上还是采取偏紧偏严的封闭化管理策略，劳动力流出极少。
A study of nearly 100 villages in 80 counties in 16 provinces shows that rural labor migration remains closed in most parts of the country. Despite a differentiated epidemic prevention strategy with different levels of risk, epidemic prevention policies do not differ significantly in some areas with different levels of risk.
“目前整个物流行业大概平均只有25%的货车司机到岗。
"The logistics industry as a whole now averages about 25 per cent of truck drivers.
另外的75%中，有大概30%的司机已到了拉货的目标城市，正进行14天的自我隔离，这部分司机在3月初便能正常到岗，但剩下的那40%仍封闭在村中，何时复工尚不明确。
About 30 per cent of the other 75 per cent had reached their destination cities and were undergoing 14 days of self-segregation, and the remaining 40 per cent were still confined to their villages and it was not clear when they would resume work.
”韩毅表示，“大部分货车司机其实并没有签订正式劳动合同，薪酬以拉货趟数结算，因此是否工作的决定权很多时候在司机手上。
"Most truck drivers don't actually have a formal labour contract, and pay is done on a take-home basis, so the decision to work is often up to the driver," said Mr Han.
务工城市的14天隔离、园区是否通行等不确定性因素，降低了很多司机返岗的积极性，很多司机宁愿在老家观望。
The 14-day isolation of cities and the uncertainty of whether the park is accessible reduce the incentive for many drivers to return to work, with many drivers preferring to wait and see at home.
”“无论是干线配送还是城市配送，中国大概90%的货车都由司机自行购买，司机无法到岗，也就意味着生产工具没有到岗。
"Whether it's trunk distribution or urban distribution, drivers in China buy about 90 percent of their trucks and cannot get on the job, which means the tools aren't there.
”韩毅告诉《财经》记者，“是否能对返岗的司机进行集中检测，省去14天的隔离，降低司机返岗的不确定性？货运司机这个行当确实比较特殊。
"Can returning drivers be tested centrally to avoid 14 days of isolation and reduce the uncertainty of returning drivers," Han told Caijing.
”在东莞，尽管已开始复工，但李文仍然面临着难题，目前到岗人数不足1/3，开工率严重不足。
In Dongguan, despite the resumption of work, Mr Li still faces difficulties, with less than one-third of his staff currently employed and woefully understaffed.
目前，云鸟配送每天平均只有约1%－2%的司机顺利返岗，“我估计全面到位还需要一个多月。
At present, only about 1% -2% of cloud distribution drivers return home on average every day. "I estimate it will take more than a month to be fully in place.
”韩毅表示。
"said Han Yi.
物流等环节未完全跑通，产业链便无法正常复工，即使企业复工，实际复产率也受限制。
Logistics and other links are not complete, the industrial chain can not resume normal work, even if enterprises resume work, the actual rate of production is limited.
“物流行业现在基本处于有活儿没人干的情况。
"The logistics industry is basically in a situation where no one is doing what they do.
城市配送以生鲜、日用品为主，这段时间其实需求是增加的，而负责原料运输的干线配送，产业上下游很多原料现在都憋着。
City distribution to fresh, daily supplies, this period of demand is actually increased, and responsible for the transport of raw materials, the industry upstream and downstream of many raw materials are now suffocated.
”韩毅说。
"said Han Yi.
期待全面复工复产相较于制造业，写字楼里的复工复产相对容易，但何时全面复工复产，写字楼中的人们心中也没谱。
It is relatively easy to get back to work in offices than in manufacturing, but there is no telling when it will be fully restored.
在福州，刘明（化名）所在的写字楼已经可以正常上班了，但大多数企业像他的一样，只是老板一个人在上班而已。
In Fuzhou, the office building where Liu Ming works (not his real name) is already at work, but most businesses are like his, where the boss works alone.
刘明是一位小企业主，主要业务是软件开发与销售。
Liu Ming is a small business owner whose main business is software development and sales.
“产品开发不受影响，技术人员可以居家办公，主要受影响的是销售。
"Product development is not affected, technicians can work from home, mainly affected by sales.
”刘明介绍，由于多数订单延期签约，非技术人员的工作基本处于停滞状态。
Mr Liu said unskilled work was largely at a standstill as most orders were extended.
“有些客户年前已经沟通过，年后可以正常签单，但现在都在延长。
"Some customers have communicated with each other years ago and can sign the form normally after three years, but now they are all being renewed.
”刘明表示，他本来约了年前计划签约的客户，想早点把单子定下来。
Mr Liu said he had made an appointment with customers who had planned to sign a contract a year ago and wanted to finalize the list earlier.
但对方委婉地拒绝了，建议先在家休息，签单得延期。
But the other side euphemistically refused, the proposal first rest at home, the signature had to be postponed.
“所谓的复工复产大部分都是企业负责人自己到办公室办公罢了，福州现在马路上的人很少，即便是此前繁华的商务中心或者商场，也只能看到几个人。
"Most of the so-called resumption of work is the head of the business itself to the office, Fuzhou is now very few people on the road, even before the bustling business center or shopping mall, can see only a few people.
晚上6点后基本看不到人。
Few people were seen after 6 p.m.
”人流量不高，则意味着餐饮、酒店等服务业即使复工，效果也有限，而服务业是此次疫情中遭重创的行业之一。
Low traffic means that services such as catering and hotels, one of the hardest hit sectors of the epidemic, will have limited effect even if they get back to work.
在复工复产审批相对宽松的浙江杭州，2月17日就已获批复工的杭州麦尖文艺酒店仍住客寥寥。
In Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province, where resumption of production is relatively easy to resume, the Hangzhou Meijie Literary Hotel, which was already approved for restoration on February 17, has few residents.
“有预订，但是比较少。
"Yes, but less.
入住成本很高，如果只有两三个客人入住，收入还抵不过一天的电费成本。
The cost of admission is very high, if only two or three guests check in, the income is less than the day's electricity costs.
但是我们觉得还是要复工，不能等着人多了再复工。
But we felt we had to get back to work. We couldn't wait too long to get back to work.
”酒店创始人告诉《财经》记者。
The hotel's founder told Caijing.
按照刘明的计划，3月1日要全面复工复产，但受限于疫情发展和产业恢复，届时客观条件是否允许全面复工复产，对于他来说也是个未知数。
Mr. Liu's plan calls for full resumption of work on March 1, but it is uncertain whether objective conditions will allow the resumption of full-scale industrial activity, given the spread of the epidemic and the recovery of the industry.
刘明说，他周围的朋友们都没有看到一个明确的复工时间点。
Mr. Liu said none of his friends saw a clear point in time to get back to work.
“目前大家盼望3月1日可以全面复工复产。
"People are looking forward to full resumption of work on March 1.
拖的时间太久，对于企业来说影响十分大。
Delay for too long, the impact on the enterprise is very large.
”据《财经》记者了解，河北省某地提出了复工复产率要求。
"According to Caijing reporter, a place in Hebei Province put forward a request for resumption of production.
其一，规模以上工业企业2月21日前复工复产率要达到80%以上，月底前，复工率要达到100%；其二，限额以上商贸流通企业，2月21日前复工复产率要达到60%以上，月底前，复工率要达到100%。
First, industrial enterprises above the size limit should resume production by February 21 at 80 percent or more, and by the end of the same month at 100 percent. Second, enterprises above the quota should resume production at 60 percent or more before February 21, and resume work at 100 percent by the end of the month.
对于浙江、广东等服务型企业占比高的区域，亦正助力企业员工返岗，加速复工复产进程。
For Zhejiang, Guangdong and other service-oriented enterprises in the region, is also helping workers to return to work, to speed up the resumption of work process.
2月19日，在国务院联防联控机制新闻发布会上，人社部就业促进司副司长宋鑫表示，已成立农民工返岗复工“点对点”服务协调小组，帮助农民工安全有序返岗。
On February 19, Song Xin, deputy director of the Department of Employment Promotion of the Ministry of Human Resources, said that a "point-to-point" service coordination group had been set up to help migrant workers return to work safely and orderly.
对成规模、集中性返岗的劳动者，开通专车专列等，实现“出家门上车门，下车门进厂门”。
For workers returning to work in scale and centralization, open special train and so on, realize "getting out the door, getting off the door and entering the factory door."
其中，四川和浙江建立了联动机制，采取点对点方式开通长途客运和火车专列；云南、贵州等劳务输出省份和东部的浙江、广东也建立了会商机制，开通了专列专车。
Among them, Sichuan and Zhejiang have set up joint mechanisms to open long-distance passenger and train trains on a point-to-point basis, and consultation mechanisms and special trains have been set up in Yunnan and Guizhou provinces and Zhejiang and Guangdong provinces in the east.
据公开数据，目前，全国规模以上工业企业复工率逐步提高，其中浙江已超过90%，江苏、山东、福建、辽宁、广东、江西已超过70%。
According to open data, the reactivation rate of industrial enterprises above the national scale has gradually increased, with Zhejiang Province now accounting for over 90 percent, and Jiangsu, Shandong, Fujian, Liaoning, Guangdong and Jiangxi provinces exceeding 70 percent.
除了人员到岗，困扰中小企业的还有运营成本压力。
In addition to personnel to the post, small and medium-sized enterprises are also troubled by operational cost pressures.
“目前能承运的订单货量大概只有平时的20%-30%，但房租、员工薪水、水电这些成本都还在，云鸟配送至少2月和3月都会亏损严重的。
"There's only about 20 to 30 percent of the usual volume of orders, but the costs of rent, staff salaries, utilities are still there, and the distribution of the birds is going to be very costly at least in February and March.
”韩毅告诉《财经》记者。
Han told Caijing.
当前，各部委相继出台举措减轻中小企业运营压力。
Currently, various ministries and departments have taken measures to relieve operational pressure on SMEs.
截至2月26日，国家发改委已提出鼓励劳动者参与线上培训、降低企业用电和用气成本、支持企业债券融资需求等举措；财政部提出稳定劳动关系、阶段性减免企业社保费用等举措；国家税务局则明确了延长2月纳税申报期限，扩展网上办税覆盖面；人社部通过失业保险稳岗返还、职业培训补贴等渠道，支持企业稳定现有的就业岗位，不裁员、少裁员。
As of February 26, the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) has proposed such measures as encouraging workers to participate in online training, reducing the cost of electricity and gas consumption, and supporting corporate bond financing.
2月24日，在国新办新闻发布会上，国家发改委秘书长丛亮表示，疫情对中国经济的冲击是暂时的、短期的。
On February 24, at a new press conference, the Secretary-General of the National Development and Reform Commission, Cong Liang, said the impact of the epidemic on China's economy was temporary and short-term.
比如，很多消费并不是消失了、只是延期了，待疫情结束后自然会释放。
For example, much of the consumption is not gone, only postponed, when the end of the epidemic will naturally be released.
“疫情改变不了中国经济长期向好的趋势”。
"The epidemic will not change the long-term positive trend of the Chinese economy."
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
多省复工率开始大幅“回血”，中国离全面复工复产还有多远?。
The rate of resumption of work in many provinces began to "return to the blood", China is still far from full resumption of production.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "多省复工率开始大幅“回血”，中国离全面复工复产还有多远?";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "疫情防控与企业复工复产在各地同步推进，虽然进度不一，但复工复产的范围在逐步扩大";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
