肺炎时期的“生门”故事。
The "Shengmen" Story of Pneumonia.
剥洋葱。
Onion peeling.
剥洋葱people                      。
peel onions.
剥洋葱people。
peel onions.
剥开人物外壳，记录真实可感的生命。
Peel off the character's shell and record the real and palpable life.
新京报深度报道部出品。
Beijing News in-depth coverage of the Department.
。
.
没有一个准确的数据，说明现在武汉有多少正在准备分娩的孕妇，但她们的生活被这场疫情彻底打乱了。
There is no accurate data on how many pregnant women are now getting ready to give birth in Wuhan, but their lives have been completely disrupted by the epidemic.
2月1日，在入住武汉一家新型肺炎特殊病人定点医院的第二天，龚林顺产一个7.1斤男婴，母子状态很好。
On February 1, Gong Lin gave birth to a 7.1 jin baby boy the day after being admitted to a Wuhan special case of pneumonia. The mother and child were in good condition.
受访者供图文 |新京报记者 解蕾 祖一飞编辑｜胡杰校对| 杨许丽►本文约3354字，阅读全文约需7分钟也许，长大以后，这个7.1斤的男婴难以理解，2020年的时候他来到世间有多波折。
The interviewee, a reporter for the Beijing News, Jie Li, editor at home, proofread by some 3354 words, takes about seven minutes to read the full text. Perhaps the 7.1-jin boy will grow up unable to understand how much he'll be living in the world by 2020.
2月1日，他的妈妈在湖北武汉顺利分娩。
On February 1, his mother gave birth in Wuhan, Hubei Province.
此前，他的奶奶和爸爸先后确认感染了新型肺炎。
Earlier, his grandmother and father confirmed the infection with the new pneumonia.
被收治后，妈妈也被确诊为新型肺炎。
After she was admitted to hospital, her mother was also diagnosed with new pneumonia.
这位出生仅两天的男婴目前各项指标正常，由单独育婴房看护，他的妈妈龚林在医院隔离治疗中。
The two-day-old baby boy is now on track to be cared for in a separate nursery, and his mother Gong Lin is in hospital isolation.
肺炎疫情下的武汉，像龚林这样的孕产妇生育问题正困扰着不少家庭……她们面临着怎样的困境？疫情如何改变她们的生活？有一张床位感觉像中了五百万彩票龚林和丈夫张立去年来到武汉定居。
Wuhan under pneumonia, such as Gong Lin's maternal fertility problems are plaguing many families... what difficulties they face? How does the outbreak change their lives? One bed feels like five million lottery tickets went to Gong Lin and her husband Zhang Li to settle in Wuhan last year.
2019年5月，龚林怀上了二胎。
Gong was pregnant with her second child in May 2019.
临盆在即，全家人都在盼着小宝宝出生。
When the baby was due, the whole family was looking forward to it.
在肺炎疫情之前，夫妻二人都很少出门。
Before the outbreak of pneumonia, both husband and wife rarely went out.
大年初二，丈夫第一个开始有反应，起初是鼻塞、咳嗽，测了体温，37.1℃，随即让全家人检测体温，婆婆的体温已经达到了38.1℃，这才发现，有可能是染上了新型肺炎。
On the second day of the Lunar New Year, the husband was the first to respond. At first he had a snuffle, a cough, a temperature test, 37.1 degrees Celsius.
在丈夫和婆婆隔离三天后，孕期38周+3的龚林也开始出现了鼻塞流涕、腹泻、畏寒、发烧等症状。
Three days after her husband and mother-in-law separated, Gong Lin, who was 38 weeks pregnant, also developed runny noses, diarrhea, chills and fever.
“家里已经有两个新型状病毒感染者，我应该也是感染了。
"There are already two new types of virus infections at home, and I should be infected," he said.
”龚林有一种不详的预感。
Gong had an ominous foreboding.
看到即将临盆的妻子可能也染上了肺炎，张立打了整整一天的电话，联系了武汉市多家定点医院，被告知如果患有轻微症状，建议不要来医院。
Seeing that his wife, who was about to give birth, might have contracted pneumonia, Zhang made a phone call for a whole day and contacted several designated hospitals in Wuhan.
他们查到在武汉防控指挥部公布的文件里，有四家医院可以接收孕妇，其中两家在蔡甸区，离家很远。
They found that four hospitals can receive pregnant women, two of them in Cai Den, far from home, according to documents released by Wuhan's Prevention and Control Command.
武汉交通停滞，自己家里又没有车，他们又联系社区。
Wuhan traffic is stagnant, their own home and no car, they also contact the community.
社区反馈说为了安全起见，社区的派车不能接送发热病人，只能上报，等待安排。
Community feedback said that for safety reasons, the community can not send cars to transport fever patients, can only report, waiting for arrangements.
1月30日夜里，在一家定点医院做完检查，龚林挺着大肚子蹲坐在医院门口，等着丈夫找回家的车。
On the night of January 30, Gong Lin squatted in front of the hospital with her stomach outstretched, waiting for her husband to find his car.
在打遍各种求助电话之后，古田区工作人员的帮忙下叫到了一辆救护车，把他们送到了武汉市中心医院后湖院区。
After making various calls for help, Gutian district workers called an ambulance and took them to the backlake courtyard of Wuhan city's central hospital.
但后湖院区当时也没有床位了，产房还在改建中，没办法接收孕妇。
But Houhu courtyard area also did not have the bed at that time, the delivery room is still being rebuilt, cannot accept pregnant women.
而且医院只能做抽血和拍CT，没法做核酸试剂的检测。
And the hospital can only do blood extraction and CT, can not do nucleic acid reagent testing.
“普通门诊不接待发热孕妇，发热门诊只能做血常规，判断不了是否被感染，拍CT对孕妇来说不安全，也没有核酸试剂可以用。
"General clinics do not receive pregnant women with fever, fever clinic can only do routine blood, can not judge whether or not infected, CT is unsafe for pregnant women, there is no nucleic acid reagent available.
政府指定的定点医院，电话都联系过，也不接收孕妇。
Government-designated designated hospitals have been contacted by telephone and pregnant women are not accepted.
陷入了一个‘死循环’。
Get stuck in a 'dead-end cycle'.
”张立说。
'he said.
在龚林一家苦苦奔波的同时，刘玉亭一家也在四处求医。
While Gong's family was struggling to find work, the family was also looking for medical treatment.
预产期2月12日的她，在1月27日确诊了新型肺炎。
She was diagnosed with pneumonia on January 27, the presumed date of birth of February 12.
医生建议，必须尽快解决产妇的问题，否则对胎儿的心跳会有很大影响。
Doctors advise that the problem of the mother must be addressed as soon as possible, or else the heartbeat of the fetus will be greatly affected.
刘玉亭家人打120叫来省妇幼保健院的救护车，送到医院，被告知无法收治受感染的产妇。
The family called 120 ambulances from the provincial maternal and child health centre and were taken to the hospital, where they were told they could not take in infected women.
他们逐个联系政府指定名单上的4家定点医院，等来的消息却依旧是——没有床位或者防护用品短缺以致无法接收病人。
They contacted each of the four designated hospitals on the government's designated list, but the message remained that there were no beds or shortages of protective equipment to receive patients.
刘玉亭的姐姐感慨：“有一张床位感觉就像中了五百万彩票一样。
"Having a bed feels like winning five million lottery tickets," lamented Liu's sister.
”“在疫情特殊时期，我们知道各个单位也是超负荷运转。
"" We know that units are operating beyond their capacity in exceptional circumstances.
但是希望能给我们发热孕妇这种特殊群体，一个专门的渠道来就诊。
But hope to give us febrile pregnant women this special group, a special channel to visit.
”龚林对新京报记者说。
Gong told the Beijing News.
产妇刘玉亭的核酸试剂检测报告。
Detection Report of Nucleic Acid Reagent of Maternal Liu Yu-ting.
受访者供图志愿者组织在行动没有一个准确的数据，说明现在武汉有多少正在准备分娩的孕妇，但她们的生活被这场疫情彻底打乱了。
There is no accurate data on how many pregnant women are now getting ready to give birth in Wuhan, but their lives have been completely disrupted by the epidemic.
志愿者海豚是一家儿童公益机构的负责人，1月23日，她意识到武汉孕产妇群体亟需帮助后，加入了志愿者工作群。
Volunteer Dolphin, the director of a children's charity, joined a volunteer work group on January 23, realizing that Wuhan's maternity community desperately needed help.
当天，群里出现许多武汉孕妇的求助信息：医院人多，害怕交叉感染；定点医院床位紧张，无法接收孕妇；“封城”造成交通不便，临产时找不到车接送至医院……1 月 26 日，海豚和同事组建了“武汉留守孕妈”微信群，没多久就有 200 多位武汉孕妇加入，其中大约四分之一的孕妇将在一个月内临产。
Wuhan pregnant women in the group were told to help: hospitals are crowded with fear of cross-infection, hospital beds are too tight to take in pregnant women, and "sealing" the city has created a small group of pregnant wuhan pregnant women, who soon joined more than 200 pregnant women, about a quarter of whom will give birth within a month.
由于出行不便且面临着各种现实问题，这群“准妈妈”把希望放在了志愿者身上。
The expectant mothers are putting their hopes on the volunteers because of the inconveniences of travel and the problems they face.
海豚介绍，通过网络求助等渠道对接上需要帮助的孕产妇后，志愿者首先会进行筛查分类，根据预产期时间、是否发热、确诊感染等情况，向孕产妇提供对应的帮助。
Dolphins, through the network help channels to connect pregnant women in need of help, the volunteers will first screen classification, according to the expected time of delivery, whether febrile, confirmed infection, and other circumstances, provide corresponding assistance to the pregnant women.
在大群里，孕产妇可以聊天、互相交流经验，有什么问题就找群里的专业医生解答。
In large groups, pregnant women can chat and exchange experiences with each other. If there are any problems, they can seek answers from the professional doctors in the group.
如果是预产期很近或已经高危的产妇，志愿者团队会组建小群，安排专业的妇产科医生、护士去提供指导，同时也会有社工提供心理支持，做情绪上的安抚。
In cases where the expected date of delivery is very close or is already high risk, the volunteer team will form small groups and arrange for professional obstetricians / gynaecologists and nurses to provide guidance. There will also be social workers to provide psychological support and emotional comfort.
海豚说，志愿者团队会了解孕产妇的具体病症，掌握检查报告、是否做核酸检测等信息。
Dolphin said the volunteer team will understand the specific maternal illness, the examination report, whether to do nucleic acid testing information.
如遇需要就医的，会帮忙联系社区、医院等等，提前确认孕产妇是否可以去做检测、能否得到收治。
If the need for medical treatment, will help to contact the community, hospitals, and so on, early confirmation of whether the pregnant women can be tested, access to treatment.
鉴于孕产妇和家属没有精力去逐一了解医院的情况，团队每天会安排专门的志愿者去做这方面的工作。
Given that pregnant women and their families do not have the energy to go through the hospital one by one, the team arranges for dedicated volunteers each day to do the job.
通过电话询问排查，核实哪些医院可以做产检，哪些医院可以接生，并且有空余的产房。
Telephone inquiries are conducted to verify which hospitals are available for check-ups and which hospitals are available for delivery, as well as free maternity wards.
关键的细节也要问到，例如医院在接诊时是否会对普通孕妇和受感染的孕妇作不同处理，否则孕妇到了医院也会面临很大风险。
Key details should also be asked, for example, whether hospitals treat pregnant women in general and infected pregnant women differently when they are admitted to hospitals, which would otherwise be at great risk.
由于每天情况都在变化，志愿者们需要不停地核实更新。
As conditions change from day to day, volunteers have to constantly check updates.
在交流的过程中，志愿者们发现孕产妇往往表现得很焦虑，原因是她们有很多问题在担心，她们不知道去哪里产检更安全，去哪家医院可以生产，甚至连有没有车去医院也要考虑。
In the course of the communication, the volunteers found that the women tended to be anxious because they had many problems, they did not know where to go for a check-up, which hospital to give birth to, or even a car to go to a hospital.
武汉交通停摆后，如何前往医院确实困扰着很多孕产妇。
Wuhan traffic stop, how to go to the hospital really troubled many pregnant women.
通过和当地爱心车队沟通，海豚和志愿者找来四辆车，在孕妇需要生产时可以提供紧急送医服务。
By communicating with the local Loving Caravan, dolphins and volunteers were able to find four vehicles to provide emergency medical services when a pregnant woman needed to give birth.
截至目前，已经帮助两位受感染的产妇住院生产，另有5位产妇在志愿者的信息支持下自行前往医院。
To date, two infected mothers have been assisted in giving birth in hospital, and five others have gone to the hospital on their own with information support from volunteers.
在实际工作中，海豚也面临一些不知道如何解决的难题。
In practice, dolphins also face a number of problems that they do not know how to solve.
例如有些孕妇被诊断为高度疑似感染，但是没能做核酸检测。
Some pregnant women, for example, were diagnosed with a highly suspected infection but were not tested for nucleic acid.
如果没得新型肺炎，产妇去定点医院可能受到交叉感染；如果得了，去普通医院又会给医护人员带来风险。
In the absence of new pneumonia, mothers may be cross-infected at designated hospitals; if so, going to a general hospital can pose a risk to health-care workers.
志愿者只能把情况反映给政府部门，让对方尽力协调。
Volunteers can only reflect the situation to government departments, let the other side try to coordinate.
海豚认为，当前孕产妇群体最需要解决的问题就是就诊流程上的畅通。
Dolphins believe that the current maternal group most need to solve the problem is the smooth flow of medical treatment.
政府应当安排一个指定的地方，让孕产妇可以优先做孕检和肺炎检测。
The government should arrange a designated place where pregnant women can be given priority for pregnancy tests and pneumonia tests.
如果确诊，要有能就近入住的医院，医院要有产房，有人能接生、照顾产妇。
If the diagnosis, to be able to live in the nearest hospital, the hospital to have a maternity room, someone can deliver, care for the mother.
同时也要做好防护工作，做好初筛以防交叉感染。
At the same time to do a good job of protection, to prevent cross-infection.
海豚在朋友圈转发的一对母子的视频。
A dolphin relays a video of a mother and a child in a circle of friends.
受访者供图1月28日，武汉市卫健委曾下发文件，要求指定医院做好产妇等特殊病人的医疗保障工作。
Interviewees for the January 28, Wuhan City Health Commission issued a document requiring designated hospitals to do a good job of maternal and other special patients medical security.
逐个联系后，志愿者们发现只有协和医院称可以接，但医院没有病床，防护物资也紧缺，病房改造进展得很慢，最后还是无法接收。
After contacting each other, the volunteers found that only Concorde Hospital said it could take them, but the hospital had no beds, there was a shortage of protective equipment and the work on the wards was slow and ultimately unacceptable.
通过和孕妇的接触，海豚发现孕妇们需要的心理支持不单是说一些安慰的话，去开导她们。
Through their contact with pregnant women, dolphins find that the psychological support they need is more than just reassuring words to enlighten them.
更重要的是做一些实际的事情，比如说在群里面及时提供信息，安排医生做疑问解答。
It is more important to do something practical, such as providing timely information in the group and arranging for the doctor to do problem-solving.
“别让她们觉得无助，知道有人在帮忙，相对来说就没有那么焦虑。
"Don't make them feel helpless, aware that someone is helping, and relatively less anxious.
”“暂时的分别，是为了更好的爱”事实上，各级政府一直在关注着这个特殊的群体。
"Temporary parting is for better love." In fact, governments at all levels have been looking at this particular group.
1月28日，武汉市新型肺炎防控指挥部医疗救治组发布文件，要求相关医疗结构做好孕妇等特殊病人的医疗保障工作。
On January 28, the medical treatment group of Wuhan New Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command issued a document requiring relevant medical structures to provide medical care for pregnant women and other special patients.
2月1日下午，国家卫健委召开新闻发布会，一个主要议题就是向媒体介绍新型肺炎疫情防控工作中孕产妇、婴幼儿和托育机构的健康防护情况。
In the afternoon of February 1, the National Health Commission held a press conference, one of the main topics is to inform the media about the new pneumonia prevention and control work of maternal, infant and care institutions health protection.
北京大学第三医院产科主任赵扬玉在发布会上介绍，已确诊感染新型肺炎的孕产妇抵抗力较低，容易出现一些突发病情，医疗机构在救治时会把孕产妇的生命放在首位。
Zhao Yangyu, director of obstetrics at Peking University's Third Hospital, told a news conference that the resistance of pregnant women diagnosed with the new type of pneumonia was low.
湖北省妇联也关注到了孕产妇群体。
The Hubei Provincial Women's Federation has also paid attention to maternal groups.
湖北省妇联相关负责人在接受记者采访时表示，湖北妇联和全国妇联都很关心这个群体，会尽其所能为她们提供一些帮助。
The Hubei Women's Federation and the All-China Women's Federation are very concerned about this group and will do all they can to help them, Hubei women's federation said in an interview with reporters.
比如对孕产妇进行孕期护理、孕期检查等相关知识的科普。
For example, pregnancy care for pregnant women, pregnancy testing and other related knowledge of the popular science.
同时，对于一些求助到妇联的个案也会给予帮助，尽力配合相关部门进行协调。
At the same time, help will be given to some cases that seek help from the FMC, and every effort will be made to coordinate with the relevant departments.
2月2日下午，武汉市新型肺炎防控指挥部发布第10号通告：在前期定点隔离和居家隔离的基础上，对全市经发热门诊诊断有肺炎症状的发热病人和新型肺炎病人的密切接触者，由各区安排车辆分别送至区集中隔离观察点，进行医学观察、治疗或采取其他预防措施。
On the afternoon of February 2, the Wuhan New Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command issued Circular No. 10: On the basis of pre-designated isolation and home isolation, close contacts between fever patients diagnosed with pneumonia and patients with new pneumonia in fever clinics throughout the city were sent by district to centralized quarantine observation points for medical observation, treatment or other preventive measures.
隔离期间，各区免费提供食宿、医学观察和治疗。
During isolation, accommodation, medical observation and treatment are provided free of charge in the districts.
其他发热病人由社区继续落实居家隔离观察措施。
Other febrile patients continued to be observed at home by the community.
在观察人士看来，这一通告将会缓解发热孕妇在交通、家庭隔离和就医上的难处。
Observers said the announcement would ease the travel, family isolation and medical problems faced by pregnant women with fever.
1月29日，在社区的协调下，刘玉亭终于被一家综合性医院接收，经过两个小时的剖腹产手术，女儿降生，成为全家唯一没有被感染的人。
On 29 January, coordinated by the community, Liu Yu-ting was finally admitted to a general hospital. After a two-hour Caesarean section, her daughter was born and became the only person in the family who had not been infected.
1月31日，在海豚所在志愿者团队帮助下，龚林入住一家新型肺炎特殊病人定点医院。
On January 31, with the help of a team of dolphin volunteers, Gong Lin was admitted to a hospital with a new type of pneumonia.
第二天晚上7点，一个7.1斤的男婴在众人企盼的目光下出生。
The next night at 7: 00 p.m., a 7.1 jin baby boy was born in the expectant eyes of the public.
多少年后，不知他会不会知道，为了来到这个世界，父母曾经经历了多少艰难，又有多少人共同努力过。
Years from now, I wonder if he will ever know how much hardship his parents have endured and how many people have worked together to reach this world.
2月1日，海豚在朋友圈转发了一对母子的视频。
On February 1, dolphins relayed a video of a mother and a child in a circle of friends.
画面中，一个未睁开眼的婴儿躺在母亲身边，哭声响亮。
In the picture, an unopened baby lies beside her mother, crying loudly.
海豚说，这位母亲已经确诊感染新型肺炎，生产后，孩子会被转到有新生儿科的医院，大人则要继续住院治疗。
Dolphins said the mother had been diagnosed with the new pneumonia, and after giving birth, the child would be transferred to a hospital with newborn babies and adults would continue to be hospitalized.
转发时，海豚在朋友圈感慨，“暂时的分别，是为了更好的爱吧。
Forwarding, dolphins in the circle of friends sigh, "temporary separation, for the better love bar.
”（文中所有受访者均为化名）洋葱话题▼你想为新生儿送上什么祝福？后台回复关键词“洋葱君”，加入读者群推荐阅读武汉定点医院一床难求，患者居家用衣柜隔离武汉医生驿站 ：为4万人次提供住宿 有退出也有坚守武汉某定点医院被隔离的医生：曾一晚接诊200名患者既然在看，就点一下吧。
Why don't you come back to Wuhan Ding Hospital = Shall we tell you why = = Why don't you tell me why = Why don't you tell us why = Why don't you tell us why you don't come to Wuhan = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = =
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
肺炎时期的“生门”故事。
The "Shengmen" Story of Pneumonia.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "剥洋葱people";。
Var nickname = & quot; peeled with onions;;
var msg_title = "肺炎时期的“生门”故事";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; pneumonia.
var msg_desc = "“暂时的分别，是为了更好的爱吧。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "Temporary difference, for better love.
”";。
";;
title: '武汉定点医院一床难求，患者居家用衣柜隔离',。
At Wuhan Dating Hospital, a bed was not available and the patient's home was segregated by wardrobe.
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '武汉医生驿站 ：为4万人次提供住宿   有退出也有坚守',。
At the doctor's post office in Wuhan: At least 40,000 people have had to leave or have AT & amp; apos; s service.
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '武汉某定点医院被隔离的医生：曾一晚接诊200名患者',。
A quarantined doctor at a selected hospital in Wuhan: At least 200 patients were treated at S & amp; A overnight.
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="剥洋葱people";。
var title = & quot; peeled with onion;;
