新冠患者出院 5 天后死亡疑云。
New crown patient died 5 days after discharge from hospital.
丁香园 DXY。
DXY, Lilac Garden.
丁香园                      。
Cloves Garden.
丁香园。
Cloves Garden.
千万医务工作者的网上家园。
tens of millions of medical workers online homes.
我们深知医疗的痛苦与快乐，在丁香园里，您可以了解最新资讯、阅读深度报道，并与同行进行交流。
We are well aware of the pain and joy of medical care. In the clove garden, you can learn the latest news, read in-depth reports and communicate with your peers.
。
.
作者：杨媛突发变故杨梅是眼看着丈夫李亮「一口一口断气的」，15 年来，这是两夫妻分开时间最长的一次，没想到再见面竟是永别。
Author: Yang Yuan's sudden change was to see her husband, Li Liang, "bite by bite." For 15 years, it was the longest separation between the two couples.
2020 年 3 月 2 日下午 3 点半，杨梅接到丈夫所在的隔离点——位于武汉市硚口区的维也纳酒店汉西店打来的电话，隔离点的医生告诉杨梅，「你老公精神压力可能有点大，你过来劝一下。
At 3: 30 p.m. on March 2, 2020, Yang Mei received a phone call from her husband, Hanxi Shop, a Vienna hotel in Zheng Kou district of Wuhan. The doctor at the isolation point told Yang Mei, "Your husband may be a little stressed. Come and talk to him.
」杨梅随即到达隔离点。
"Yangmei then reached the quarantine point.
隔离点的工作人员告诉她，「你老公恢复地挺好的，就是精神压力大。
The staff at the quarantine point told her, "Your husband is recovering well, just mentally stressed."
」杨梅来到 509 号房间，看见李亮躺在床上，桌子上放着她当日上午给他点的稀饭，塑料袋没有开封。
"Yangmei came to Room 509 and saw Li Liang lying on the bed with the porridge she had given him that morning.
杨梅喊他，他听到她的声音很高兴，他想坐起来但身上没劲。
Yangmei called to him. He was glad to hear her voice. He wanted to sit up but he had no energy.
杨梅把他抱了起来，他也想抱她， 但手抬不起来，他说「老婆我想回家」，她说「好好好，老婆明天就找社区，老婆明天就把你接回去。
Yangmei picked him up and he tried to hold her too, but could not lift his hand. He said, "Wife I want to go home," she said.
」她想着最近几天他视频说口干、想喝水，她赶忙给他喂了一口，水都流出来，滴在衣服上，她把水杯放下，问「宝贝你想干什么，告诉老婆，老婆帮你办。
"She thought about the video he'd been giving him in recent days to drink, and she gave him a quick sip, and as the water dripped out and dripped onto her dress, she put the glass down and asked," Baby, tell your wife what you want, your wife will do it for you.
」他不再回应，不知怎么就从床上掉下来，掉到两床之间，杨梅吓坏了，赶忙跑到一楼喊医生，「救命呀救命呀，509 从床上掉下来了」。
"He stopped responding and somehow fell out of bed and fell between the beds. Yangmei got so scared that she ran to the first floor and called to the doctor," Help, help! 509 fell out of bed.
两位医护跟着杨梅上了楼，进屋后，其中一个人对李亮说，「你喊一下她叫什么名字」，李亮喊「杨梅、杨梅」，喊了两声就没有反应了，人瘫了，一个人把李亮的眼睛一扒，随即下了楼，几分钟后，前台打电话上来，说人不行了，赶紧报 120。
When the two nurses followed Yang Mei upstairs, one of them said to Li Liang, "What do you call her name?" Li Liang shouted "Yang Mei, Yang Mei" and shouted "Yang Mei, Yang Mei."
「当时我整个人就崩掉了」下午 4 点 20 分，杨梅拨打 120 ，对方要求隔离点的医生开证明，她在慌忙跑下楼的途中看到隔壁的门开着，门内有个人在帮她打 120 ，「结果 120 把他都问烦了」，她问那人一楼总机的电话，那人说是 0 ，她赶紧回房间拨了个 0，让那边开证明。
At 4: 20 pm, Yang Mei dialed 120, and on her way down the stairs, she saw the door of the next room open. Someone inside the door was trying to call her 120. She asked the man for a call from the switchboard on the ground floor.
在等待救护车来的时间里，杨梅眼看着李亮断气，身上冰凉。
While waiting for the ambulance to arrive, Yang Mei watched Li Liang die, cold on her body.
下午 5 点过 5 分，李亮被送至武汉市第四医院（普爱医院）古田三路院区一楼的留观室，5 点过 8 分，医生宣布李亮死亡。
After 5 pm, Li Liang was taken to the first floor of Gutian courtyard house of Wuhan Fourth Hospital (Pu Ai Hospital). After 5: 00 pm, the doctor declared Li Liang dead.
《死亡医学证明（推断）书》显示，李亮的直接死亡原因为：新冠肺炎，引起该疾病的情况为，呼吸道阻塞猝死、呼吸循环衰竭。
According to the Deathological Medical Certificate (inference), Li Liang's direct cause of death was Newly Coronary Pneumonia, which was caused by sudden respiratory obstruction and respiratory failure.
李亮的死亡医学证明图源：受访者供出院前三天的肺部 CT2 月 3 号，李亮在家中发烧，2 月 4 号在武汉市第四医院（普爱医院）做了肺部 CT，显示疑似新冠肺炎。
Li Liang's death certificate came from a lung CT3 three days before his discharge from hospital. Li Liang developed a fever at his home on February 4 and a pulmonary CT scan was performed on February 4 at Wuhan's Fourth Hospital (Pu Ai Hospital), revealing a suspected new crown pneumonia.
2 月 8 号被安排至速 8 酒店硚口区常码头店统一隔离，2 月 9 号做了核酸检测，2 月 10 号被告知核酸检测结果为阳性，2 月 12 号从速 8 酒店转至武汉市汉阳国博方舱（下称汉阳方舱）医院。
Feb. 8 was arranged to speed 8 hotel Zhangkou District Changquan Shop isolation, February 9 to do Nucleic acid testing results were told February 10 positive, February 12 expedited 8 Hotel transferred to Wuhan Hanyang Guobao Square Hospital (hereinafter referred to as the Hanyang Square Hospital).
14 天后的 2 月 26 号下午，李亮从汉阳方舱医院出院，杨梅记得李亮当时的状态挺好，还发消息给朋友，称自己「抗战胜利，再隔离 14 天就可以回家」。
On the afternoon of February 26, 14 days later, Li Liang was discharged from the Hanyang Fang Hospital. Yang Mei remembered that Li Liang was in good condition and sent a message to her friend that he "won the war of resistance and can go home in isolation for another 14 days."
出院小结显示，经对症支持治疗，患者体温正常 3 天以上，呼吸道症状明显好转，连续两次核酸检查阴性，无吸氧指末氧饱和大于 95%，病程超过 14 天，经专家组评估，准予出院。
The summary of discharge showed that after symptomatic support treatment, the patient's body temperature was normal for more than 3 days, the respiratory symptoms improved significantly, two consecutive negative nucleic acid tests, no oxygen saturation at the end of the oxygen absorption index greater than 95%, the course of the disease exceeded 14 days, after expert group assessment was granted discharge.
2 月 25 号的出院小结图源：受访者供此前，李亮分别于 2 月 20 号和 2 月 23 号做了核酸检测，结果都是阴性。
Source of the Feb. 25 discharge summary: Respondents had tested positive for nucleic acids on Feb. 20 and Feb. 23 respectively.
出院三天前的 2 月 23 号做了肺部 CT，CT 诊断书上写：「双肺见散在多发密度增高影，大部分呈磨玻璃密度、部分略呈网状样改变，大部分位于胸膜下，双肺下叶见小结节灶，最大径 0.4 cm，建议随诊复查。
On February 23, three days before discharge from the hospital, a CT diagnosis was made. "Most of the lungs appear to increase in multiple densities. Most of them are glassy-dense and partially reticular. Most of them are under the pleura and small nodules appear in the lower lobe with a maximum diameter of 0.4 cm.
」李亮出院前三天肺部 CT 报告图源：受访者供李亮曾对 CT 诊断报告提出质疑，2 月 26 号晚，他发微信问方舱的一位医生，对方回复「肺部 CT 需要一段时间才能恢复到以前的样子，出院需要层层审核，方舱医院出院都是由专家安排的。
On the night of February 26, he wrote to a doctor in the cabin. "It will take some time for the pulmonary CT to return to its former condition.
」李亮与黄医生的聊天记录图源：受访者供3 月 9 号，这位黄姓医生坦承自己是从四川驰援汉阳方舱的，但对于李亮一事，黄医生表示不便透露。
Dr. Li Liang and Dr Wong's chat record source: The interviewee admitted on March 9 that he had helped the Hanyang cabin from Sichuan Province.
2 月 18 日，国家卫健委发布《新型冠状肺炎病毒诊疗方案(试行第六版)》，其出院四条标准是：体温恢复正常 3 天以上、呼吸道症状明显好转、肺部影像学显示急性渗出性病变明显改善、连续两次呼吸道病原核酸检测阴性(采样时间间隔至少 24 小时)。
On February 18, the National Fitness and Health Commission (NCHP) announced the "New Coronary Pneumonia Virus Diagnosis and Treatment Programme (Trial Version 6)." The four criteria for discharge are: normal body temperature for more than three days, marked improvement in respiratory symptoms, marked improvement in acute exudative lesions revealed by lung imaging, and negative detection of nucleic acids for two consecutive respiratory diseases (interval of at least 24 hours).
在 3 月 3 日更新的第七版诊疗标准中，这四条出院标准没变。
The four discharge criteria remain unchanged in the seventh edition of the standards, which were updated on March 3.
李亮的肺部 CT 诊断是否符合诊疗标准中的第三条：「肺部影像学显示急性渗出性病变明显改善」？对此，武汉某一线呼吸科医生表示，「没有看到原始图像，不好判断。
Is Li Liang's lung CT diagnosis consistent with the third standard of diagnosis and treatment: "Pulmonary imaging shows a marked improvement in acute exudative lesions"? In response, a first-line respirator in Wuhan said, "It is difficult to judge without seeing the original image.
如果在每 7~10 天复查 CT 的过程中，病变是从实变--渗出--磨玻璃影这个演变过程，以及病变范围缩小，通常就没有问题，但报告中所说的『两肺磨玻璃影』通常说明病变还在进展之中，至少要在一周后再复查一次 CT，病灶继续吸收才可出院。
If CT is reviewed every 7-10 days, the lesion is usually fine from consolidation-seepage-grinding of glass, and the lesion is reduced in size, but the "two-lung mill glass shadow" described in the report usually indicates that the lesion is still in progress and should be re-examined at least once a week before being discharged.
」武汉大学中南医院医学影像科副主任张笑春表示：「必须要有原始的图像，和前一次或者前几次的图像对比，才能判断是否急性炎症已经吸收，单从这个描述上来看，不好判断。
Zhang Xiaochun, deputy director of medical imaging at Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital, said: "It is difficult to judge whether acute inflammation has been absorbed by comparing the original images with those of the previous or previous images.
」「如果只做了一次 CT 给出这个诊断是没问题的，但如果做了多次，肺部的变化，至少与前一次对比的变化，应该反映在诊断报告上。
"" A CT scan alone is not a problem, but if done many times, changes in the lung, at least compared to the previous one, should be reflected in the diagnostic report.
」张笑春补充道。
"Zhang added.
而李亮此前的一次 CT 是 2 月 4 号于武汉市第四医院（普爱医院）做的，诊断报告显示，「双肺感染，考虑病毒性肺炎，请结合临床。
Li Liang, who previously had a CT scan on Feb. 4 at Wuhan's Fourth Hospital (Pu Ai Hospital), reported that "two-lung infection, taking viral pneumonia into account, please combine clinical practice.
」「从出院前三天的 CT 诊断报告来看，有小结节，有多发多形态的病变，而且以胸膜下为主，这还是新冠肺炎的比较典型的表现。
"According to the CT diagnostic report three days before discharge, there are small nodules, multiple pathological changes and a predominance of subpleural lesions. This is also a typical manifestation of neocortical pneumonia.
院方让他出院可能是对比了前一次的 CT 结果。
The hospital discharged him from the hospital, possibly comparing the results of a previous CT scan.
」张笑春说。
"said Zhang Xiaochun.
3 月 5 号，汉阳方舱医院院长杨星海对财新记者表示，他们出院的标准比国家的《指南》更为严格，每个出院的病人必须做两次核酸检测都是阴性；CT 肺部影像，对比有明显的吸收改善；血氧饱和度在 95% 以上。
On March 5, Yang Xinghai, director of the Hanyang Fang Hospital, told Caixin that the criteria for discharge were stricter than the state's guidelines, with each patient discharged having to be negative for two nucleic acid tests; CT lung imaging, showing a marked improvement in absorption; and blood oxygen saturation above 95 per cent.
「病人是否出院，一般要经过好几道审核，先是这边的管床医生、医疗组组长要审核通过，然后我们也会交给后方的专家组那边，他们看了没问题了，就可以出院了。
"Patients are usually discharged from the hospital after going through several examinations. First, the doctor here, the head of the medical team has to go through the procedure, and then we will give it to the expert group at the back.
」杨星海说。
"said Yang Xinghai.
据财新报道，3 月 5 号，汉阳方舱已经暂时停止病人出院。
According to Caixin report, on March 5, the Hanyang square cabin has temporarily stopped patients from the hospital.
「这不是我们自己停的，是指挥部的要求，也不止是我们一家停。
"This is not our own stop, it is a command request, not just our family stopped.
」3 月 9 号，杨星海在电话中回应：「对于李亮的死亡，专家已经做过鉴定，死亡讨论也做了，我得到的消息是，这件事与方舱医院没有关系。
"On March 9, Yang Xinghai replied in a telephone call:" Experts have examined the death of Li Liang, and the death discussions have been conducted.
出院后的情况我不了解。
I don't know what happened after I left the hospital.
」「李亮出院时，肺部 CT 与前一次对比，病灶有明显的吸收好转。
"When Lee left the hospital, there was a marked improvement in lung CT compared to the previous one.
」但这一条为何没有出现在 CT 报告单上，也未出现在出院小结上，杨星海并未作答。
But why this clause did not appear on the CT report, nor did it appear on the discharge summary, Yang did not answer.
「复阳」疑云李亮的死亡是否由于新冠肺炎复发，目前尚不明晰。
It is unclear whether Li Liang's death was due to the recurrence of pneumonia in the new crown.
「单从他最后一次的 CT 诊断报告来看，应该不致命的。
"From his last CT diagnosis alone, it should not have been fatal.
至于为什么突然走了？可能的原因有很多。
There are many possible reasons for this sudden departure.
因为造成呼吸道阻塞猝死、呼吸循环衰竭的原因有多种。
There are many causes of sudden respiratory obstruction death and respiratory failure.
」张笑春说。
"said Zhang Xiaochun.
东部战区总医院呼吸与危重症医学科主任医师施毅表示，现在分析李亮死因都是很片面的，因为资料有限，要经过严格医疗事故鉴定才能判断。
Shi Yi, director of respiratory and critical medicine at the Eastern War General Hospital, said the current analysis of Li Liang's death was one-sided because the data were limited and could only be determined by a rigorous medical malpractice assessment.
「对于新冠肺炎，我们还在不断的认识过程中，不然《《新型冠状病毒肺炎诊疗方案》为什么一直在改进，现在出了第 7 版，接下来还会有第 8 版，第 9 版。
"We are still in the process of understanding why the New Coronavirus Pneumonia Diagnosis and Treatment Programme has been improving. It is now in its 7th edition and will be followed by the 8th edition, 9th edition.
」施毅说。
"said Shi.
据澎湃新闻报道，3 月 4 日晚，江岸方舱医院发布了一份《紧急通知》：根据市防疫指挥部最新通报，近期出院患者中复发者较多，导致患者重新入院治疗。
On the night of March 4, Jiangbang Hospital issued an emergency notice, according to the latest notice from the municipal anti-epidemic command, more patients have returned from hospital recently, leading to re-hospitalization.
为了减少病情复发，确保大家彻底治愈，达到「零回头」目标，经医院研究决定，即日对所有在舱拟出院病友抽血加做病毒抗体 Ig-M 与 Ig-G 的检查，确保病友完全康复出院，敬请各位病友配合。
In order to reduce the recurrence of the disease, ensure a complete cure, achieve the "zero return" goal, the hospital decided that the day after the formulation of hospital patients in the hospital blood and add the virus antibodies Ig-M and Ig-G to ensure that the patient fully recovers from hospital, please cooperate with the patient.
上述检查将从 3 月 5 日开始。
The inspection will begin on March 5.
据界面新闻报道，3 月 5 号，为防止复发，武汉多家方舱医院暂停办理病人出院。
According to the Interface News Report, March 5, in order to prevent recurrence, Wuhan a number of cabin hospitals suspended patients from the hospital.
3 月 5 日下午，国家卫健委专家组成员王广发在新京报记者采访时指出，患者「假阴性」，在出院后存在「复阳」的可能性，但这主要是由于采样误差造成，几率较小。
On the afternoon of March 5, Wang Guangfa, a member of the National Fitness and Health Commission Expert Group, told the Beijing News that patients who were "false-negative" were more likely to have "reyang" after discharge from hospital.
若未出现明显新冠肺炎病症，不宜过早对其「新冠肺炎复发」下结论。
If there is no obvious new crown pneumonia, it is not advisable to prematurely make a conclusion about the recurrence of new crown pneumonia.
他强调，导致患者出现呼吸道阻塞猝死、呼吸循环衰竭因素较多，应对此案例做进一步研究。
He stressed that the causes of sudden respiratory obstruction death, respiratory failure factors are more, this case should be further studied.
「目前医学界对新冠肺炎的认识还是比较粗浅的」张笑春表示，「比如『复阳』到底是因为病毒在治疗过程中受到抑制、转阴还是怎么回事呢？这其中的细节有太多需要我们去研究了，再比如说有的患者一连 7、8 次都测的是阴性，抗体也是阴性，但是无论从临床的症状还是从影像学表现都支持是新冠肺炎。
"At present, the medical community still has a fairly shallow understanding of new crown pneumonia," Zhang said. "For example, whether Fuyang is suppressed, overcast or what happens during treatment, there are too many details to study. For example, some patients have tested negative for 7 or 8 times and the antibody is negative.
」「病毒也是生物体，是趋利避害的，经过一段时间的治疗，不利于它生长的环境，它就隐藏起来不生长了，这样就检测不出来了，可能核酸就会出现两次阴性；另外，患者一直在治疗，干预得比较好，肺部的 CT 的影像也明显改善了，CT 这条也符合了；本身就是对症治疗，症状肯定也就消失了，临床表现也符合了。
"The virus is also an organism which, after a period of treatment, is harmful to the environment in which it grows. It hides and does not grow, so that it cannot be detected, and nucleic acids may be negative twice.
符合『诊疗方案」』中那 4 条出院标准，患者就出院了，但其实可能病毒还是在体内。
In accordance with the discharge criteria of the Diagnosis and Treatment Programme, the patient was discharged from the hospital, but the virus may still be in the body.
」张笑春说。
"said Zhang Xiaochun.
「这次新冠肺炎有太多的疑问，咱们获得的第一手资料，无论是影像也好，还是核酸也好，都是隔空喊话式的，没有真真切切看到肺部的损伤。
"There are too many questions about the new crown pneumonia, and the first-hand information we get, whether it's images or nucleic acids, is in the form of a shout-out, without really seeing lung damage.
」张笑春认为，就医学角度来看这位患者研究价值很大，「很遗憾，如果当时能及时跟家属沟通，对这位患者进行尸检，那我们对这个疾病的认知就能进一步了。
Zhang said the patient's research was of great value from a medical point of view. "Unfortunately, if we had been able to communicate with the family in time for an autopsy, we would have come to know more about the disease.
」等待尸检已经不可能了，李亮是 3 月 2 号当天被火化的。
Waiting for an autopsy was no longer possible. Li Liang was cremated on March 2.
立即火化确认书是李亮弟弟签的。
The immediate confirmation of cremation was signed by Li Liang's brother.
3 月 3 号到 3 月 9 号，杨梅到处打电话，市长专线、社区、街道、硚口区防疫指挥部。
From March 3 to March 9, Yangmei calls everywhere, the mayor's line, communities, streets, Zhoukou district epidemic prevention command.
对于李亮的死，她需要一个说法。
She needs an account of Li Liang's death.
3 月 10 号上午 10 时，她收到市长专线投诉的反馈，显示「经与当事人沟通，上级部门对死因问题正在进行医疗鉴定。
On 10 March, at 10 a.m., she received feedback from the Mayor's special line of complaint, indicating that "after communicating with the parties concerned, the higher authorities are conducting a medical examination of the cause of death.
」但此之前，杨梅并未收到任何机构的反馈，也没人与她沟通。
But until then, Ms. Yang hadn't received feedback from any organization and no one had spoken to her.
市长专线反馈图源：受访者供「纪委监察委已经介入调查」，3 月 11 号下午，武汉市硚口区防疫指挥部医疗救治口的负责人说。
Source of Mayor's Feedback Line: Respondents for "the Disciplinary Commission has intervened in the investigation," said March 11 afternoon, the head of the medical treatment mouth of Zhengkou District Anti-epidemic Command in Wuhan.
至于调查进展到哪一步，还需询问社区隔离点，即维也纳酒店汉西店的负责人。
As to the progress of the investigation, it was necessary to ask the head of the community isolation point, the Hansei shop of the Vienna Hotel.
武汉市硚口区医疗求助处的工作人员提供了维也纳酒店汉西店负责人的电话，负责人姓马。
Wuhan Zhengkou District Medical Help Office staff provided the Vienna hotel Hanxi shop responsible for the telephone, the head of Ma.
3 月 11 日下午，我们多次致电这位马姓负责人，电话无人接听，后收到短信回复：「现在不方便，稍后回电话」。
On the afternoon of March 11, we called the person in charge of the horse's surname several times. No one answered the phone.
截至发稿，该负责人未再回复，多次致电也无果。
As of the date of dispatch, the responsible person did not reply, many calls also failed.
杨梅为化名。
Yangmei is an alias.
丁香园 DXY。
DXY, Lilac Garden.
更懂中国医生。
Know more about Chinese doctors.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
已喜欢，对作者说句悄悄话。
Like it, whisper to the author.
发送给作者。
Send to author.
最多40字，当前共字。
Up to 40 words, currently in common.
更懂中国医生。
Know more about Chinese doctors.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
新冠患者出院 5 天后死亡疑云。
New crown patient died 5 days after discharge from hospital.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "丁香园";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "新冠患者出院 5 天后死亡疑云";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; 5 days after discharge.
var msg_desc = "「复阳」还是出院标准太宽？";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="丁香园";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
