医护感染「重灾区」背后，武汉市中心医院的浮沉往事。
Healthcare infects "the disaster area" behind, Wuhan city central hospital's floating past events.
史晨瑾 杨媛。
Shi Chenyuan Jin Yang.
偶尔治愈                      。
Occasionally cured.
偶尔治愈。
Occasionally cured.
记录人与疾病、衰老、死亡的相处方式。
Document how people relate to illness, old age and death.
。
.
3 月 9 日上午，武汉市中心医院眼科副主任医师朱和平因感染新冠肺炎，抢救无效不幸离世，享年 66 岁。
On the morning of March 9, Zhu Heping, deputy chief ophthalmologist at Wuhan Central Hospital, died of pneumonia at the age of 66.
朱和平是迄今为止该院因新冠肺炎倒下的第四位医生。
Zhu is the fourth doctor to fall down with pneumonia in the hospital so far.
在此之前，眼科医生李文亮、眼科主任梅仲明、甲状腺乳腺外科主任江学庆，均因新冠肺炎抢救无效殉职。
Prior to this, ophthalmologist Li Wenliang, ophthalmologist director Mezhongming, thyroid breast surgery director Jiang Xueqing, all died in the line of duty due to Xinguan pneumonia rescue.
据财新报道，武汉市中心医院 4300 余职工里，已有超过 230 人确诊新冠肺炎。
More than 230 of Wuhan's 4,300-strong central hospital staff have been diagnosed with pneumonia, according to Caixin.
相比于武汉其他几家医院，堪称「重灾区」。
Compared with other hospitals in Wuhan, can be regarded as a "serious disaster area."
据悉，目前该院包括副院长在内的 4 位医务人员仍处于濒危状态，情况不容乐观：消化内科医生、副院长王萍和心胸外科副主任易凡均上了 ECMO，多器官衰竭。
It is reported that at present the hospital, including the Vice-President of the four medical staff is still in a critical condition, the situation is not optimistic: digestion physician, Vice-President Wang Ping and the Deputy Director of cardio-thoracic surgery Ivan both attended ECMO, multiple organ failure.
泌尿外科副主任胡卫峰呼吸衰竭，多器官衰竭，用去甲肾上腺素勉强维持血压。
Urology deputy director Hu Weifeng respiratory failure, multi-organ failure, with noradrenaline barely maintain blood pressure.
心电图显示广泛前壁、右心的相关导联全都心肌梗死，还有肺栓塞表现。
ECG showed extensive anterior wall, right ventricular correlative leads were all myocardial infarction and pulmonary embolism.
伦理委员会职工刘励，重症病毒感染患有细菌感染及真菌感染。
Liu Lai, an employee of the Ethics Committee, contracted bacterial infection and fungal infection.
伴有严重凝血功能障碍，弥散性血管内凝血。
With severe coagulation dysfunction, disseminated intravascular coagulation.
呼吸衰竭，气管插管，机械通气中。
Respiratory failure, trachea intubation, mechanical ventilation.
短短的 3 个月期间，武汉市中心医院究竟发生了什么，导致医护人员损失如此惨重？武汉市中心医院正门照片疫情上报受阻，院内警告未拉响近日，一份名为《新型冠状病毒疫情处置情况说明》（下简称为《处置情况说明》）的内部文件从武汉市中心医院流出，描述了该院公共卫生科在疫情初期上报病例的经过。
What happened to the central hospital in Wuhan during the past three months, causing such a heavy loss of medical staffA recent internal document entitled "Information Note on the Disposition of the New Coronavirus Epidemic Disease" (hereinafter referred to as "the disposal of the coronavirus") from Wuhan Central Hospital recently described the hospital's public health department reported the case in the early stage of the outbreak.
丁香园向该院多位医生核实，确认了文件的真实性。
The clove garden checked with a number of doctors at the hospital and confirmed the authenticity of the documents.
《处置情况说明》首页截图《处置情况说明》显示，2019 年 12 月 29 日至 1 月 3 日期间，公卫科医生曾多次向江汉区疾控中心报告该院 7 例疑似患者病例，疾控中心回复：对于此类特殊传染病，等上级通知后再上报。
According to the Disposition Statement on the front page of the Statement of Disposition, between 29 December and 3 January 2019, public health doctors repeatedly reported 7 suspected cases of the hospital to the CDC of the Jianghan District. CDC responded that such special infectious diseases should be reported after notification by higher authorities.
1 月 13 日，武汉市卫健委疾控处吴风波处长协同区卫健委疾控科负责人抵达该院，称：不明原因肺炎病例要慎重上报。
On January 13, Wu Fengbo, director of Wuhan Health and Wellness Commission's disease control department, arrived at the hospital with the director of the District Health Care and Prevention Department.
「发现的病毒性肺炎病例，首先要在院内完成各项检验和相关检查，经院内专家组会诊为不明原因肺炎后，再报区卫健委会诊并通知疾控中心采样，经区、市、省级逐级检测，依然为不明原因肺炎后，经省卫健委同意才能进行病例信息上报。
"All cases of viral pneumonia found must first be examined and examined within the hospital. After being diagnosed as pneumonia by a hospital panel, the case information can be reported only with the consent of the Provincial Health Commission after being reported to the District Health Care Commission and informing the CDC to take samples.
」然而，疾控中心的流调采样与区卫健委医政科处理流程产生冲突，疑似病例的上报、流调和采样迟迟无法进行。
However, the CDC's flow sampling conflicts with the District Health Services Section's processing procedures, and the reporting, flow and sampling of suspected cases are delayed.
直至 1 月 16 日，市疾控中心才派出 2 名工作人员，对院内 48 例疑似病例进行采样。
Only on January 16 did the CDC send two staff members to sample 48 suspected cases in the hospital.
《处置情况说明》结尾的表格中显示：早在 1 月 11 日，公卫科就收到了包括李文亮医生在内的 3 例职工疑似感染案例信息。
The table at the end of the Statement of Disposition shows that, as early as 11 January, the department received information on three suspected cases of employee infection, including Dr. Li Wenliang.
截至 1 月 24 日，武汉市中心医院累计有 175 位医务人员出现过发热情况，其中确诊 1 例。
As of January 24, there were 175 cases of fever in Wuhan city central hospital, among which one case was diagnosed.
公卫科可以进行核酸检测后，每日上报职工确诊病例不断上升。
The number of confirmed cases reported daily has risen since the department was able to conduct nucleic acid tests.
截至 2 月 9 日 17 时，公卫科共上报职工新确诊病例 68 例，院外门诊观察 147 人，住院 142 人，纳入医学观察医务人员共 266 人。
As at 1700 hours on 9 February, the Department of Public Health had reported 68 newly confirmed cases, 147 outpatient visits and 142 hospitalizations, bringing the total number of medical staff admitted to medical observation to 266.
公卫科这份《处置情况声明》中，最先提到的病例出现在南京路院区的急诊科。
In the Sanitary Statement, the first case was reported in the emergency department of the Nanjing Road compound.
提起这点，乔韧医生依然记忆犹新。
Dr. Qiao is still fresh in his mind.
当时两位疑似患者抽取了肺泡灌洗液进行测序。
At the time, two suspected patients took alveolar lotion for sequencing.
急诊科主任艾芬从同事得知患者报告里显示有 SARS 冠状病毒的后，立刻上报给公卫科和院感科，同时将消息发在科室的微信群中。
The emergency department director, Stephen Aifen, immediately reported the presence of the coronavirus in the patient's report to the Department of Public Health and the Sensorial Department.
乔韧正是在 12 月30 日从微信群里看到了这件事。
It was on the 30th of December that Joe saw this through the micromail crowd.
次日，消息不胫而走，这件事被人转发至眼科 80 余人的大群里。
The next day, word spread that the incident had been relayed to a large group of more than 80 ophthalmologists.
张雯称，得知消息后自己有注意戴口罩，也及时告知了家人，至于群里其他医护的防护情况，她不清楚。
Zhang said she paid attention to wearing masks when she heard the news and told her family in time. As for the other medical care in the group, she was not sure.
另外一位眼科医生杨爱和几位相熟的同事也都网购了 N95 口罩，「但科室里并不是每个人都戴」。
Another ophthalmologist, Yang Ai, and several close colleagues also bought N95 masks online, "but not everyone in the department wears them."
李文亮医生从眼科群得知消息后，将其转发至武大校友群。
Dr. Li Wenliang learned the news from the ophthalmology group and forwarded it to Wu University alumni group.
当时的聊天截图中显示了急诊科科室的信息，乔韧的很多同学纷纷前来询问是否属实，他感到气愤，并质问李文亮为什么窥探科室的隐私并外传。
The chat showed information from the emergency department. Many of Qiao's classmates came to ask if it was true. He was angry and asked why Li had snored about the department's privacy and spread it.
「他没说什么，可能那时已经被海量信息淹没了。
"He didn't say anything. Maybe he was overwhelmed by a flood of information.
」12 月 31 日凌晨，李文亮被武汉市卫健委和医院警告批评。
In the early hours of December 31, Li Wenliang was warned and criticized by Wuhan Health Commission and the hospital.
1 月 3 日，他被辖区派出所训诫。
On 3 January, he was reprimanded by the police station in the district.
几天后，80 余人的眼科群被强制解散，所有的资料也一并清空。
A few days later, more than 80 people's ophthalmology group was forcibly disbanded, and all the information was emptied.
1 月 2 日，急诊科主任艾芬被医院监察科纪委请去谈话，据中国新闻周刊报道，医院领导批评她「作为专业人士没有原则，造谣生事，你们这种不负责任的行为导致了社会恐慌，影响了武汉市发展、稳定的局面」。
On January 2, the director of the emergency department, Stephen Aifen, was invited by the Disciplinary Committee of the Hospital Supervision Department to talk to her. According to China News Weekly, the hospital leadership criticized her for "unprincipled and unprincipled behavior as a professional, causing social panic and affecting the development and stability of Wuhan."
当日，医院要求医务人员之间不许公开谈及病情，不得通过文字、图片等可能留存证据的方式谈论病情，病情只能在交接班必要的时候口头提及。
On the same day, the hospital asked the medical staff not to speak publicly about the illness, not to talk about it in words, pictures, etc., which may be kept as evidence, and to mention it orally only when necessary during the transition.
乔韧证实了这种说法，「当时监察科让每个科主任给各自科室的每个人打电话通知——不许对外公布疫情信息，一直到钟南山院士宣布疫情人传人之后，才不了了之」。
Qiao confirmed this statement. "At the time, the Inspection Section asked each section director to call everyone in their section - not to release information about the outbreak until the Academician Zhong Nan Shan announced the person-to-person transmission."
据人物报道，艾芬称：1 月 16 号最后一次周会上，一位副院长还在说：「大家都要有一点医学常识，某些高年资的医生不要自己把自己搞得吓死人的。
At the last weekly meeting on January 16, a vice-dean said: "Everybody should have a little bit of medical knowledge, and some senior doctors don't have to frighten themselves to death," Ifen said.
」另一位领导上台继续说：「没有人传人，可防可治可控。
Another leader went on to say, "No one can pass from one person to another, and control can be prevented.
」然而武汉市中医院纪委书记李蜜向丁香园否认了周会上有院领导批评高年资医生戴口罩的事情。
However, Li Mi, the disciplinary secretary of Wuhan Chinese Hospital, denied that hospital leaders at the meeting had criticized senior doctors for wearing masks.
当问及为什么该院会有如此多医护感染时，李蜜称：「现在我很忙，没时间谈论这些事情。
Asked why the hospital had so many hospital infections, Li said: "I'm too busy to talk about these things right now.
」也就是说，在疫情前期，上报结果并未得到重视，医院也未向医护人员进行预警。
In other words, during the pre-epidemic period, the reported results were not taken seriously and the hospital did not provide early warning to the medical staff.
只有少部分医生在个人层面进行防护。
Only a small number of physicians provide protection at the individual level.
据同样被感染的章迅医生回忆，大概在 1 月 20 日以后，医院才开始有真正的行政举措。
According to Zhang Xun, who was also infected, the hospital did not start any real administrative action until about January 20.
医院内网上开始发布官方文件，通知门诊停诊、发热门诊开展、病房管理、资源配置等问题。
The intranet of the hospital began to publish official documents, to inform outpatient consultation, fever clinic development, ward management, resource allocation and other issues.
此时，距离 1 月 11 日公卫科首次收到疑似医护感染的信息，已过去至少 9 天。
By this time, at least nine days had passed since the company first received information about a suspected medical infection on January 11.
有鉴于此，近日一篇《原武汉市中心医院职工五问医院管理层》的文章开始在社交媒体上流传。
In view of this, a recent article "WuHan City Central Hospital staff five questions hospital management" began to circulate in social media.
文章将矛头对准了医院的蔡莉书记与彭义香院长，认为他们应该为医护感染负责。
The article targeted hospital secretaries Cai Li and Peng Yixiang, holding them responsible for medical care for the infection.
上述文章截图蔡莉与彭义香均未对此进行回复。
Neither Cai Li nor Peng Yixiang have responded to this article.
据悉，该院主要管理者都不是医学专业背景。
It is reported that the main management of the hospital is not a medical professional background.
「简单来讲，就是行政在管医疗。
"Simply put, the administration is in charge of medical care.
但医学又是很严谨的科学，管理上面出现了疏漏和迟滞是客观情况。
But the medical science is also very rigorous, the management appeared the omission and delay is the objective situation.
疫情上报遇到重重阻力我可以理解，但是对下我们有院内的系统，本可以对职工负责，为什么早期没有及时为医护人员提供保护？」章迅充满疑问。
I understand the resistance to reporting the outbreak, but we have a hospital system, could have been responsible to staff, why did not provide timely protection for medical personnel? "Zhang Xun was full of doubts.
眼科三位医生殉职，不一定是同一感染源武汉市中心医院主要两院区，均坐落在人口稠密的地段。
Ophthalmology three doctors died in the line of duty, not necessarily the same source of infection Wuhan City Central Hospital, the main two-house district, are located in densely populated areas.
其中南京路院区位于汉口中心地带，距离武汉市最著名的商业街江汉路仅 600 多米。
Nanjing Road courtyard area is located in the center of Hankou, just over 600 meters away from Wuhan City's most famous commercial street.
据楚天都市报统计，江汉路步行街 2019 年日均客流量约 40 万人次。
According to Chu Tian city newspaper statistics, JiangHan Road pedestrian street 2019 average daily passenger flow about 400,000.
后湖院区则是距离华南海鲜市场最近的医院，约 1.6 公里。
Houhu District is the nearest hospital to the South China Seafood Market, about 1.6 kilometers.
这里接诊的新冠肺炎感染者，体内携带的病毒毒性非常强。
Here the new crown pneumonia patients, the body carries a very strong viral toxicity.
乔韧回忆，李文亮自训诫后，陡然变了一个人，冷言寡语，也消瘦很多。
Joe recalled, Li Wenliang since the sermon, suddenly changed a person, cold tongue, also wasted a lot.
他到门诊接诊，后来就传出病倒的消息。
He went to the clinic for treatment and later he got the news of his illness.
眼科护士丁琪称，李文亮虽然知道那个「高度疑似 SARS 的病毒」回来了，但并没想到这么快就蔓延开，也没有做到积极防护。
Ophthalmologist Ding Qi said Li, although aware of the "highly suspected SARS virus" back, but did not expect to spread so quickly, and did not actively protect.
而眼科医生就诊患者时，需要近距离贴近患者面部，通过裂隙灯眼底镜等设备观察患者眼睛。
And when the ophthalmologist visits the patient, needs to be close to the patient's face, through fissure lamp eyeglass and other devices to observe the patient's eyes.
有时候，医生与患者面部的距离不到 10 厘米。
Sometimes the doctor is less than 10 centimeters away from the patient's face.
如果不戴口罩，就很可能被感染。
If you don't wear a mask, you are likely to get infected.
「目前眼科医护被感染了大约六七人，已经阵亡三个了」，丁琪说。
"About six or seven people have been infected and three have been killed," Dinky said.
据悉，李文亮、梅仲明、江学庆和易凡四人，均于 1 月上旬被感染。
Li Wenliang, Mei Zhongming, Jiang Xueqing and Yifan are reported to have been infected in the first half of January.
李文亮曾管床的那位 82 岁青光眼女患者，1 月 10 日 被诊断为疑似新冠肺炎转入隔离病房，之后病逝。
Li Wenliang, an 82-year-old glaucoma woman who had been in bed, died on January 10 after being diagnosed with suspected pneumonia in the isolation ward.
1 月 11 日，李文亮出现低烧。
On January 11, Li Wenliang had a low fever.
一时有流言称，眼科三位殉职医生都是被这位女患者感染的。
There was a rumor that the three ophthalmologists who died on duty were infected by the woman.
但丁琪否认了这种说法，「这位患者传染李文亮是肯定的，传染梅仲明是有可能的但暂无证据，传染朱和平则不可能，因为朱主任是 2 月下旬发病的，那时候那个患者早已身亡，连带她的家属据说也有多位感染身亡。
Dante denied the claim. "This patient was positive that Li Wenliang was infected. Infection of Mei Zhongming is possible, but there is no evidence of infection. Chu is unlikely to infect Zhu, who fell ill in late February, when the patient was already dead and her family was said to have died of many infections.
」2 月 6 日 晚上九点十分，眼科同事告诉乔韧，李文亮心跳骤停，抢救 20 分钟后，宣告临床死亡。
At 9: 10 p.m. on February 6, an ophthalmologist told Qiao that Li Wenliang's heart stood still. He was rescued for 20 minutes and was pronounced clinically dead.
由于新冠病毒有传播性，抢救时严禁心脏按压。
Because the new crown virus has the transmission sex, rescue when strictly forbids the heart to press.
因为按压胸腔会导致呼吸道的病原体随着气道开合，经飞沫从空气中播散。
Because the pressure on the chest cavity causes the respiratory pathogens to open and close with the airway and spread through the air in droplets.
按照这个原则，李文亮当时用心肺复苏机进行抢救。
According to this principle, Li Wenliang was using cardiopulmonary resuscitation machine to rescue.
10 点左右，医生接到电话通知，不许放弃，继续抢救。
Around 10 o'clock, the doctor received a phone call, not to give up, to continue rescue.
一位医生通过私人关系从外院借来了 ECMO ，刘强和杨爱医生都表示，「此前医院并无 ECMO」。
"There was no ECMO in the hospital before," said Liu Qiang and Dr Yeung, who had borrowed ECMO from the hospital through a personal relationship.
2 月 7 日凌晨 2 点 58 分，李文亮经全力抢救无效去世。
February 7 at 2: 58 a.m., Li Wenliang after all efforts to rescue the dead.
有医生认为：「此前整整 3 个小时的心脏按压，无视诊疗原则，导致病原扩散，严重危害在场医护人员的安全。
"The previous three hours of heart pressure, ignoring the principles of diagnosis and treatment, led to the spread of the pathogen, seriously endangering the safety of medical staff present," a doctor said.
」「所有知道李文亮抢救过程的医生都很气愤」，刘强表示。
"All the doctors who knew about Li's treatment were furious," Liu said.
李文亮走后的一个月内，江学庆、梅仲明、朱和平三人相继去世。
Li Wenliang left within a month, Jiang Xueqing, Mei Zhongming, Zhu Heping three died in succession.
1月 29 号，朱和平主任出席了院内组织开展感染前上岗培训会，这是眼科医生刘强和杨爱最后一次看到朱主任。
On January 29, Zhu attended the pre-infection induction training session organized by the hospital. This was the last time that ophthalmologists Liu Qiang and Yang Ai saw Zhu director.
再一次收到朱主任的消息是 2 月 18 号，在眼科医生小组群里，有人连发三条求助消息。
Again, Zhu received news of three calls for help from a group of ophthalmologists on February 18th.
「我们整个科室都受不了了」，杨爱说，那一夜她没有睡好，「朱主任是非常自律、非常高尚的人，他不愿麻烦别人，实在不行了才打的 120。
"Our whole department couldn't take it anymore," Yang said. She didn't sleep well that night. "Director Zhu was a very disciplined and noble person.
当时氧饱和度只有 70%，呼吸也不好，第二天双肺都白了。
Oxygen saturation was only 70%, breathing was poor, and my lungs turned white the next day.
」「一起工作好多年的同事突然不见了，他们三个像没有走一样」，眼科医生穆颖说，「现在我们科室被打得散散的，有些人在前线，有些人在后方，有些人在家里隔离，很多都一两个月没有见面」。
"The three colleagues who have been working together for so many years have suddenly disappeared and the three of them have not gone," said Mu Ying, an ophthalmologist. "Now our departments are scattered, with some on the front line, others in the rear, some isolated at home, many not seen for a month or two."
丁琪说，「科室的同事大多心灰意冷。
"Most of the colleagues in the department are frustrated," Ding said.
很多医生准备疫情后辞职、护士考虑转行跳槽的可能。
Many doctors are ready to resign after the outbreak, and nurses consider the possibility of changing careers.
据说医院在部分微信群里转发了心理疏导的推送，但没有什么人真的去关注过，因为既无诚意、亦无力度。
Hospitals are said to have relayed psychological referrals in some of the microphone groups, but few people actually pay attention to them because they are neither sincere nor forceful.
」走廊里，「明亮组合」的牌子依然挂在办公室外。
In the hallway, the "bright portfolio" sign was still hanging outside the office.
他们和另外一位眼科医生组成的三人医疗小组，如今已散落飘零。
A three-person team of them and another ophthalmologist is now scattered.
刘强回忆，小组里的医生可能都是被那位青光眼患者感染的。
Liu recalled that the team of doctors may have been infected by the glaucoma patient.
幸存的被感染医生「大体上算是出院了，但肺功能还没有恢复」。
The infected doctors who survived were "largely discharged, but lung function has not yet recovered."
甲乳外科的微信群里，那个与众不同的人永远都不会再更换头像。
In the microphone group of breast surgery, that unusual person will never change his head again.
（文中乔韧、章迅、穆颖、丁琪、刘强、张雯、杨爱均为化名）参考来源：亲历者讲述：武汉市中心医院医护人员被感染始末https://news.sina.com.cn/c/2020-02-17/doc-iimxyqvz3653366.shtml作者：史晨瑾 杨媛—Tips—我们的新书《生死之间》出版了可识别下方图片中的二维码购买偶尔治愈to-cure-sometimes——记录人与疾病、衰老、死亡的相处方式偶尔治愈 | 常常帮助 | 总是安慰。
(Qiao Qiao, Zhang Xun, Mu Ying, Dingqi, Liu Qiang, Zhang Wen, Yang Ai) refer to: First and foremost https: / / news.sina.com.cn / c / 2020-02-17 / doc-iimxyqvz 3653366.shtml: Shen Ching Jin Yang, aged, and dead.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
医护感染「重灾区」背后，武汉市中心医院的浮沉往事。
Healthcare infects "the disaster area" behind, Wuhan city central hospital's floating past events.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "偶尔治愈";。
Var nickname = & quot; occasionally cured & quot;;
var msg_title = "医护感染「重灾区」背后，武汉市中心医院的浮沉往事";。
Var msg _ title = & quot;; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "疫情上报受阻，院内警告未响";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; AT & amp; # 39; & # 45; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="偶尔治愈";。
var title = & quot; occasionally cured & quot;;
