一个武汉女孩的生死问答。
Wuhan girl's life and death question and answer.
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
美编 陈龙本文约8490字预计阅读时间22分钟作者 | 中青报·中青网记者 王梦影编辑 | 秦珍子22岁的武汉女孩董婉婷曾手写下遗书。
2007-9-25 21: 48 Chinese New Year Chinese News & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
这位新冠病毒感染者当时走不了路，昏睡一天，醒来后去摸索纸笔，感觉自己正直面死亡的脸孔，在恐惧中落泪。
The new crown virus infected person then cannot walk, sleeps for a day, wakes up to grope for paper and pen, feels own upright face dead face, in the fear drops tears.
2020年1月20日，她开始咳嗽、发烧。
On 20 January 2020, she began to cough and have a fever.
肺部CT影像是磨玻璃状阴影。
Pulmonary CT images are grinded to glassy shadows.
她跑过3家医院共计9趟，居家隔离一周半，集中隔离11天，做过4次核酸检测，作为重症在医院治疗19天，每天吞药20片，累计抽了11管血做检查。
She made nine visits to three hospitals, spent one and a half weeks in isolation, concentrated isolation for 11 days, underwent four nucleic acid tests, was treated as a severe case in hospital for 19 days, swallowed 20 tablets a day and took 11 tubes of blood for tests.
她所在的城市也宣布了“战时”，来自全国各地的超过4万专业医护人员加入了战斗。
Her city also declared a "war of war," with more than 40,000 health professionals from all over the country taking part.
3月10日，董婉婷的检查结果达到出院标准，转移到隔离点，核酸检测不“复阳”就能康复回家。
On March 10, Dong Yuanting test results to meet the discharge criteria, transferred to the isolation point, nucleic acid detection "Fuyang" can recover home.
在这场求生的征途中，年轻的大四女孩找到了很多答案。
In this journey of survival, the young senior girls found a lot of answers.
1死亡的阴影最初表现为不确定性，悄然出现在生活里。
The shadow of death first appears as uncertainty, creeping into life.
董婉婷不清楚从什么时候起，心里的疑问越来越大，撑满闷痛的胸腔：我是不是也感染了？她的庚子年始于一场高烧，睁开眼零点已过，量体温，38.8摄氏度。
Dong Wanting is not clear from the beginning, the heart of the more and more questions, filled with the chest cavity: I am not infected? Her hengzi years began with a high fever, open the eyes past midnight, temperature 38.8 degrees Celsius.
发烧时，她感觉身体沉重，痛觉尖锐。
She felt heavy and sharp with pain when she had a fever.
她疲劳，却连着几晚难以入睡，肌肉骨骼都在疼，尤其是后腰。
She was tired and had trouble falling asleep for several nights, and her musculoskeletal muscles ached, especially her back.
器官出问题后存在感强烈，那是一种难以向健康人描述的难受——她能感到一边的肺泡似乎没有另一边舒展。
There was a strong sense of presence after an organ problem, an affliction difficult to describe to a healthy person - she could feel the alveoli on one side did not seem to unfold on the other.
高烧几天，潜伏几天，又更猛烈地袭来。
High fever for a few days, dormant for a few days, and more violent attack.
中途是腹泻。
Diarrhea is in the way.
武汉人的日历一页页翻向春节，新冠肺炎的确诊病例逐渐增多。
Wuhan people's calendar page turned to the Spring Festival, the new crown pneumonia confirmed cases gradually increased.
董婉婷曾听见路人议论着“人心惶惶”，饺子馆里有本地老人为戴不戴口罩争辩。
Dong Wan Ting had heard passers-by talking about "people are terrified." In the dumpling shop, local old people argue about wearing masks.
超市里人不少，不知道是为过年，还是因为“封城”囤货。
Many people in the supermarket, do not know is for the New Year, or because "closed" hoarding goods.
喜庆的歌曲里，夹杂着一个男声播报：“……提醒您勤洗手……”下电梯时她遇见快递员，对方没有口罩。
The festive song, mixed with a male voice broadcast:... "remind you to wash your hands frequently..." She met the courier when she got off the elevator, the other side did not have a mask.
她送了一个，“怕传染一个辛勤工作的人”。
She gave one, "for fear of infecting a hard-working man."
她是问诊大潮中的一滴水。
She is a drop in the tide of consultation.
1月23日，她曾去武汉同济医院，上午9点到达，拿到900多号，被告知下午4点才有可能看上病。
On 23 January, she went to Wuhan Tongji Hospital, where she arrived at 9 a.m. and was given more than 900. She was told that she would not get sick until 4 p.m.
后来她去了普爱医院，随着队伍缓缓前挪等待抽血，挪了3个小时。
Then she went to Pu Ei Hospital and moved for three hours as the line slowly moved forward, waiting for blood to be drawn.
她没能输上液——输液要去急诊，而急诊人满了。
She couldn't get fluids - she needed an emergency infusion, and the emergency department was full.
大年初一，她起了个大早，又到同济医院。
On New Year's Day, she got up early and went to Tongji Hospital.
病人不算多。
Not a lot of patients.
她终于做上了胸部CT。
She finally had a chest CT.
下午拿到结果：双肺磨玻璃影。
Afternoon results: Two lungs grind glass shadow.
她没有哭，甚至没有表情变化，手是抖的。
She didn't cry, she didn't even show any change in expression, her hands were shaking.
等结果的4个小时内她回家吃饭，看了一会儿电视剧《庆余年》。
Within four hours of the result, she went home for dinner and watched the TV series "Celebrating the Year After."
主人公好像又解决了一个大难题。
The hero seems to have solved another big problem.
这段时间她循环播放这部电视剧，平板电脑24小时接着电源。
During this time, she replayed the TV series, and the tablet was powered 24 hours later.
哪怕自己在做其他事情，也需要角色对白的声音填补生活背景。
Even if you're doing something else, you need the voice of the character to fill the context of your life.
同济医院开了3针点滴，她没打上第3针。
She didn't get a third shot at Tongji Hospital after three injections.
1月25日，武汉市中心城区实行机动车禁行管理，她出不了门了。
January 25, Wuhan city center to implement the ban on motor vehicles management, she can not leave the door.
在医院输液时，她默默观察着四周的人，回家后记录在日记里。
In the hospital infusion, she silently watched the people around her, after returning home recorded in the diary.
她目睹了一场分别：女人带着五六岁的儿子站在一边，男人在另一边。
She saw a parting: a woman with her five or six-year-old son on one side and a man on the other.
男人叫了一声：“儿子！”小男孩懵懵的，而女人动了动嘴，终于没有靠近。
The man cries: "Son!" The little boy is ignorant, but the woman moves mouth, did not come near finally.
另一对夫妻对话：“专家说打白蛋白（或为免疫球蛋白针剂，说话者不知道正确名称——记者注）或许有效。
Another couple said: "Experts say albumin (or immunoglobulin injection, the speaker does not know the correct name - note to reporters) may be effective.
”“干吗啊，这得花多少钱。
"Why, how much will it cost?
”“倾家荡产也得救你的命。
"Your life will be saved by ruin.
”“我一屋里人（一家人）都感染了。
"" I get an infection in one room (family).
”她听见一位老爷爷絮叨，“一屋里。
"She heard an old grandfather say," Inside.
我被隔离在汉阳，我儿子在汉口的医院，我儿媳妇被送到武昌了，巧板眼（不凑巧）还都不在一起。
I was quarantined in Hanyang. My son was in Hankou Hospital. My daughter-in-law was sent to Wuchang.
”她听见一个年轻姑娘打电话，猜测那一头可能是姑娘的家人。
"She heard a young girl making a phone call and guessing that it might be the girl's family at the other end.
姑娘说：“你不要过来！我要一个人隔离！我住酒店，去哪儿都行，反正我不去你那里……这是传染病，会死人的！你们是不是非要传染才罢休，我不回来！”女孩挂了电话，又哭了。
The girl said, "You don't come here! I want to be alone! I can stay in a hotel, go anywhere, I don't go to you anyway... It's infectious, it's going to die! Don't you have to be contagious, I'm not coming back!" The girl hung up and cried again.
手机还在振动，对方又打进来了。
The cell phone was still vibrating and the other side was calling in again.
董婉婷也开始落泪。
Dong Wan Ting also began to cry.
董婉婷在胶囊表面写下她的隔离日记。
Dong Wanting wrote her isolation diary on the surface of the capsule.
受访者供图武汉市第四医院她去了3次。
The interviewee sent her to Tu Wuhan Fourth Hospital three times.
第一次，医院无法接诊，正在紧急改造以适应新冠肺炎收治要求。
For the first time, the hospital was unable to attend and was undergoing emergency adaptations to accommodate the new crown pneumonia.
第二次，她在发热门诊见到8名医生、4个诊室、1个分诊台。
On the second occasion, she met eight doctors, four consultation rooms and one clinic at the fever clinic.
以分诊台为中心，病人围了好几层，每层都想更靠近中心一步。
The patient is surrounded by several layers, each of which wants to move closer to the center.
“平时武汉人都没什么排队的习惯，何况特殊时期。
"Usually Wuhan people do not have the habit of queuing, not to mention the special period.
”第三次是1月26日，医院已恢复基本的秩序。
The third time, on January 26, the hospital was restored to basic order.
一个护士建议她：没有确诊试剂盒，排队没有意义，回家隔离吧。
One nurse advised her: There was no diagnostic kit, there was no point in queuing up, go home and isolate.
几个月前，董婉婷对这一年的期待是毕业设计和研究生申请。
A few months ago, Dong Wanting's expectations for the year were graduation design and graduate applications.
当时她不知道，大小仅相当于十万分之一粒芝麻的新冠病毒正在悄然飘荡。
At the time, she did not know that the new crown virus, the size of only 1 / 100,000th of a sesame, was floating quietly.
很久以后，她才感觉与这座生养自己的城市命运相连。
It was a long time before she felt connected with the fate of the city in which she had been born and raised.
1月23日，她开始高烧的第二天，武汉“封城”了。
On January 23, the day after she began a high fever, Wuhan "closed the city."
在武汉市确诊病快速增长时，她的病情加重进入隔离，2月17日作为重症患者入院治疗。
She was hospitalized on Feb. 17 as a severe case of acute illness in Wuhan as her condition grew rapidly.
3月来临后，她的情况有所好转。
When March came, her situation improved.
武汉市新增确诊病例首度跌至两位数。
New confirmed cases in Wuhan dropped to double digits for the first time.
董婉婷出现感染症状超过两周后，2月8日，中国大陆累计确诊新冠肺炎感染者33728例，超过“非典”时期最终数据，钟南山通过电视节目发话：不能完全证明拐点到来。
Dong Wanting more than two weeks after the symptoms of infection, February 8, China, a cumulative total of 33,728 people diagnosed with pneumonia, more than the "SARS" period, the final data, Zhong Nan-shan through television programmes: can not completely prove the inflection point.
武汉雷神山医院也开始使用，当天交付1600张病床。
Wuhan Lei Shenshan Hospital also began to use, the same day delivered 1600 beds.
这一天，她接到了一个通知她转移的电话。
On that day, she received a call informing her of the transfer.
到达硚口区隔离点时已是傍晚，这里征用了武汉市第一职业教育中心的宿舍楼。
It was evening when we arrived at the isolation point of Zhangkou District, where the dormitory building of Wuhan First Vocational Education Center was requisitioned.
从一楼大厅往外望，她能看到一轮圆月。
From the ground floor lobby she could see a full moon.
上下楼几趟，天色越来越浓重，而“月亮一直在那里”，硕大、金黄、很好看。
Several times up and down the stairs, it was getting thicker and thicker, and the "moon was always there," huge, golden and beautiful.
她想起来，这一天是元宵节，春节过完了。
She remembered that it was the Lantern Festival and the Spring Festival was over.
她记得除夕那天，自己极端想看春晚，她已经很多年不看这个节目了。
She remembered New Year's Eve when she desperately wanted to watch the Spring Festival Gala, which she hadn't watched for years.
在独自租住的小房间里，她没吃晚饭就躺下了，用平板电脑观看央视春节联欢晚会的直播。
In a small room rented by herself, she lay down without dinner and watched the CCTV Spring Festival Gala live on a tablet.
开场是歌舞《春潮颂》。
The opening song and dance "Ode to Spring Tide."
色彩泼在屏幕上，明星齐唱“正月里来正月正，锣鼓唢呐鞭炮声”。
Color splash on the screen, star singing "January in the first month, gongs drum suona gun sound."
2013年起武汉市重启烟花爆竹燃放禁令，窗外的夜没有声响。
The ban on fireworks was restarted in Wuhan in 2013, and the night was silent outside.
大概两个节目后，她睡着了。
About two shows later, she fell asleep.
2到隔离点的第一天，工作人员指引董婉婷到一楼的储备间领取被褥等物资，没有陪同她上楼，房间任她挑选自行入住。
On the first day of the quarantine, Tung Wan Ting was instructed to collect bedding and other materials from the ground floor reserve. She was not escorted upstairs and the room was left to her choice.
这个隔离点头一天才开放，她属于第二批住户。
This isolation nodded for a day before opening, she belongs to the second group of households.
她从底层开始找起，因为离一层的工作人员越近，“越方便呼救”。
She began to search from the ground floor, because the closer she was to the staff on the ground floor, the easier it was to call for help.
其他病人显然思路一致，她一路找到五楼才见到空房。
The other patients apparently thought alike. She found the empty room on the fifth floor all the way.
这里很安静，她偶尔听见走廊里不知是哪一间的住户在咳嗽，“咳得几乎要背过气”。
It was quiet, and occasionally she heard the occupants of one of the hallways coughing, "coughing almost to the back."
如果不考虑身体系统里的病毒，一切仿佛大一新生入学。
If you do not consider the virus in the body system, everything seems to freshman enrollment.
她跑上跑下，领东西送回房间，铺床烧水。
She ran up and down, taking things back to her room and making beds and boiling water.
房间四四方方带小阳台，被套床单是折痕崭新的蓝色格子布。
The room was square with a small balcony, and the bedspread was creased in a new blue checked cloth.
被子发完了，只得要了一床褥子盖。
When the quilt was finished, we had to ask for a mattress cover.
董婉婷穿着毛衣和羽绒服裹在床褥里，一夜睡睡醒醒。
Dong Wanting wearing a sweater and down jacket wrapped in bedding, sleep and wake up.
她觉得武汉这个冬天格外冷，“也可能是心理原因”。
Wuhan, she thought, was unusually cold this winter. "It could also be psychological."
在普爱医院看病时，医院将发热门诊设在空地上的一处单独隔开的小房子里，屋外排着长队。
At Pou Ei Hospital, the hospital located the fever clinic in a separate small house on the vacant lot, with long queues outside.
那天风很大，她里里外外穿了7层，戴着围巾、帽子、手套。
It was a windy day and she wore seven coats of scarves, hats and gloves, both inside and outside.
她第一次体会到，冷的极致是感觉不到冷了。
For the first time she realized that the coldest thing was not to feel cold.
为病人安全起见，隔离点的门不允许关闭，门锁锁舌处包着毛巾防止自动带上。
For the patient's safety, the door of the isolation point is not allowed to close, the door lock latch is wrapped in a towel to prevent automatic wear.
小楼立于开发区中，四周一片旷野，风灌进楼来，尖啸着，门也砰砰应和，”简直像交响乐”。
Small buildings stand in the development zone, surrounded by a wilderness, the wind poured into the building, screaming, and the door banging, "like a symphony."
有一天董婉婷看见窗外由暖黄转为青白，鹅毛大雪降下来。
One day Dong Wan Ting saw the window from warm yellow to green white, snow falling down.
从第一声咳嗽到住进隔离点，她始终没有把病情告诉妈妈。
From the first cough to the quarantine, she never told her mother.
得病的女儿认为有必要保护自己的母亲。
The sick daughter felt the need to protect her mother.
公共交通停了，妈妈没有车，无法实际帮上忙。
The public transportation stopped and my mother had no car to help.
她觉得，告诉母亲，只会让她感到无能为力，白白担心。
She felt that telling her mother would only make her feel powerless and worried.
疫情则将她和爸爸逼到一起。
The outbreak pushes her and her father together.
她发现自己得到了机会更新父女的相处模式。
She found herself given the opportunity to update her father-daughter relationship.
她不隐瞒自己来自一个“不太完整的家庭”。
She did not conceal that she came from an "incomplete family."
父母在她幼时离异。
Her parents split up when she was a child.
父亲再婚，又有了一个女儿。
The father remarried and had another daughter.
母亲辛勤工作，她几乎由外婆带大。
Mother worked hard. She was brought up almost by her grandmother.
在董婉婷看来，爸爸的关心总带一种不由分说的独断。
In Dong Wanting's eyes, father's concern always with a kind of involuntary arbitrary.
而她早习惯自己拿主意。
She was used to making her own decisions.
她追随爱好考入艺术高中，又进入大学的艺术专业。
She followed her hobby and entered art high school and then went on to major in art at university.
父亲始终不赞成这个决定，觉得不好找工作。
My father disapproved of the decision and found it difficult to find a job.
“你没有那个天分。
"You don't have that talent.
”他劝说，丝毫没有意识到这句话像刀子一样伤人。
He persuaded, not realizing that it hurt like a knife.
董婉婷在医院绘制墙画。
Dong Wanting painted the wall in the hospital.
受访者供图这个冬天以前，父女只在年节见面。
The interviewee suggested that the father and daughter would meet only on New Year's Day before this winter.
已经长大的女儿和中年的父亲已不再发生矛盾，他们维持着彬彬有礼的距离。
The grown-up daughter and middle-aged father no longer conflict, they maintain a polite distance.
这一次，董婉婷将自己的身体状况告诉了父亲。
This time, Dong Wanting told his father about his health.
后者有私家车，能接送她往来医院，车窗外是越来越空旷的武汉。
The latter has a private car, can take her to and from the hospital, the car window is more and more empty Wuhan.
董婉婷一度不想再去医院排队了，她感觉到徒劳无功，而身体越来越吃不消。
Dong Wanting once did not want to go to the hospital queue, she felt futile, and the body is more and more unbearable.
父亲则强烈反对，总逼她打起精神再跑一趟。
Her father, who was strongly against it, urged her to come again.
他想救女儿，以他习惯的那种独断的方式。
He wanted to save his daughter in the arbitrary way he was used to.
两人常为此发生争执。
The two of them often argued about it.
其中一次矛盾爆发于两人的通话中，争到中途，女孩听到，父亲哭了。
One of the contradictions occurred during the conversation between the two men. In the middle of the conversation, the girl heard her father crying.
这是董婉婷此生第一次经历父亲的眼泪。
For the first time in her life, Dong experienced her father's tears.
她发现爸爸竟能在哽咽的同时几乎不受干扰地继续输出自己的观点。
She found that Dad was able to continue to export his ideas almost undisturbed while choking.
这一刻，两个人丰沛的情绪让她“震撼”又“痛苦”。
This moment, two people abundant emotion let her "shock" and "pain."
她意识到：天哪，爸爸爱我。
She realized, My God, Dad loves me.
3她在新闻里看见外面的情况，“江汉路一个人都没有”，这是她打记事起从未见过的景象。
She saw the situation outside in the news, "there is no one on Jiang Han Road," which she had never seen since she remembered.
她从来没有见过比武汉更“火热”的城市。
She had never seen a hotter city than Wuhan.
2019年，也是这样的冬末春初，她正拿着学校的照相机穿行于这座城市的大街小巷。
In 2019, also in late winter and early spring, she was carrying her school camera through the streets of the city.
这是艺术课程《阅读城市》的实践部分。
This is the practical part of the art course "Reading the City."
建筑是热闹的。
The building is lively.
武汉，《天津条约》中增辟的通商口岸，如今对外贸易量稳居全国前四的大港口，“九省通衢”。
Wuhan, an additional commercial port in the Tianjin Treaty, is now situated in the top four major ports in the country, thoroughfare of nine provinces.
不同的建筑风格在这里摩肩接踵，她拍下照片去书本中对照，认出广东的、浙江的，还有欧洲的风情。
Avenues are crowded with different architectural styles, and she takes photographs to compare them with those of Guangdong, Zhejiang and Europe.
现代高楼簇拥着“里分”低矮的红色屋顶。
Modern tall buildings are crowded with low red roofs.
里分是武汉在半殖民统治时的租界，现在的城中村落。
Wuhan is in the semi-colonial period of the concession, now the village in the city.
“比户相连，列里以居”，“里”，就是家的居所。
To be connected with a house is to live in a house, and to live in a house.
董婉婷的外婆曾在集贤里居住，那里如今已经拆迁。
Dong Wanting's grandmother used to live in Jixian Li, where the demolition has now taken place.
2019年，她在里分租过一个工作室，从早观察到晚。
In 2019, she sublet a studio in Ri, from morning to night.
她发现居民多为老人和体力劳动者，不少环卫工人，带荧光条的橙红马甲在巷弄间隐没。
She found that the majority of residents are elderly and manual workers, many sanitation workers, with fluorescent orange red waistcoat hidden in the alley.
居民楼间各种线缆拉得很低，晾晒的各色衫裤飘飘荡荡。
Various cables between residential buildings pull very low, the colors of clothes drying clothes fluttering.
黄猫卧在树影和阳光的夹缝里，斜睨着眼。
The yellow cat was cocked with a sidelong glance between the shadow of the tree and the sunlight.
武汉人，“口头上总是要轰轰烈烈”。
Wuhan people, "always verbally strong."
武汉话抑扬顿挫，气势惊人，总是显得“很凶”，“汉口话尤其凶”。
Wuhan dialect somersault, surprising momentum, always appear "very fierce," "Hankou language particularly fierce."
江汉路是步行街，人头攒动，招牌霓虹，大喇叭放着流行乐，“好像永远有人在吵架”：顾客为价格吵，行人和店家吵。
Jianghan Road is a pedestrian street, full of people, the sign neon, big trumpet pop music, "as if someone is always quarrelling": customers for prices, pedestrians and stores quarrel.
董婉婷在里分居住时听到最多的也是吵架，父母妻儿，家长里短。
Dong Wan Ting in the division of residence heard the most quarrels, parents and children, parents and parents.
路人悠然而过，不觉得有什么热闹可看。
Passerby leisurely and passing, do not feel that there is anything lively to see.
吵过了，饭菜香又飘起来。
After the quarrel, the food was fragrant again.
在她眼中，武汉充满着“江湖气和烟火味”，“烟火味”直接体现在居民楼的建筑外墙上。
In her eyes, Wuhan is full of "lake gas and fireworks smell," "fireworks" directly reflected in the residential building outside the wall.
2019年军运会后，市容大大优化。
The city was greatly improved after the 2019 military transport meeting.
此前，董婉婷常见爬着油烟痕迹的街道和水泥墙面。
Before that, Dong Wanting often crawls the street with the oil fume trace and the concrete wall surface.
油烟来自热火朝天的重口味厨房，武汉人是“好七佬”（爱吃的人）。
The fume comes from the hot, heavy-flavored kitchen, and the Wuhan people are "good seven" (people who love to eat).
“好七佬”董婉婷“嘴巴刁”，“被武汉惯得”。
"Good seven Yankees" Dong Wan Ting "Mouth Diao", "Wuhan is used to."
她会为一口吃的跑老远，去老通城吃煎豆皮，去利济北路买烧卖。
She would run a long way for a bite to eat, eat fried beans in Laotong City, to buy and sell Liji North Road.
菜刀“咚”地一声剁下鸭脖，热干面“刺啦”一声吸入口腔。
Duck "Dong-dong" a chop duck neck, hot and dry face "piercing" a breath of oral.
“过早”（吃早餐）时她一般不化妆，否则会全部花掉。
"Early" (breakfast) She usually doesn't make up, or she'll spend it all.
苍蝇馆子，塑料桌椅，空气炎热，汉口的糊汤粉滚烫。
Fly restaurant, plastic table and chair, hot air, Hankou paste powder boiling hot.
她大口啜饮，“汗流到不可思议的程度”。
She sipped, "perspiring to an incredible degree."
胡椒放得足足的，能把外地人的眼泪辣下来。
The pepper is good enough to spice up the tears of strangers.
董婉婷一直觉得自己不太像武汉人，“说话就不太像，没什么气势”。
Dong Wanting has always felt that they do not look like Wuhan, "talk is not like, no momentum."
她觉得自己是“典型的那种艺术生”，内向、敏感，时常担心讲话不如写字表达得清楚。
She considered herself a "typical art student," introverted, sensitive, and often worried that she might not speak clearly enough.
从小到大她只有几个密友，和陌生的世界接触多少让她有些惴惴不安。
Growing up with only a few close friends, she was a little apprehensive about how much she came into contact with a strange world.
在这个火热的城市，她一度有过抑郁的情绪。
There was a time when she was depressed in this hot city.
除了焦虑艺术学习的进展，年轻的灵魂还常陷入宏大的问题。
In addition to the progress of anxious art learning, young souls often fall into great problems.
她读加缪的《局外人》，书里的人说，“我以这样的方式生活过，我也可能以另外一种方式生活”，所有的生命无可避免地通向死亡。
She read Camus' The Outsider, 'said the man in the book.' I've lived this way, and I might have lived the other way, 'and all life inevitably leads to death.
她审视自己“庸常的、平凡的”生命，问自己：活着的意义是什么呢？22岁的女孩还无法给自己答案。
She looks at her "normal, ordinary" life and asks herself: What's the point of being alive? A 22-year-old girl can't answer for herself yet.
“是爱吗？我不知道。
"Is it love? I don't know.
”她说， 即使是在写遗书时，她也没能写下一个“爱”字。
She said she could not write a single word of love, even when she was writing her suicide note.
高烧的夜里她想起外婆。
She thought of Grandma on a hot night.
武汉人管外婆叫“家家”，她查资料时翻到一首湖北儿歌：摆摆手，家家走，不杀鸡，就打酒。
Wuhan people called grandmother "family," she turned to a Hubei children's song: waved hands, go home, do not kill chickens, drink.
搭洋船，下汉口，吃鸡蛋，喝米酒，买对糍粑往转走……一家熬腊肉，百家香闻够。
Ocean boat, lower Hankou, eat eggs, drink rice wine, buy Ciba to go around... a family cooked bacon, 100 incense enough.
她的家家就像儿歌里唱的那样，总有无穷无尽的好吃食，要送给小外孙。
Her family, like the children's song, always have endless delicious food, to send to the small grandson.
董婉婷的幼年在外婆的老房子里度过，初中时她和外婆一起住在表哥家，夜里常常一起睡在表哥客厅的沙发上。
Dong Wanting's childhood in the grandmother's old house, she and her grandmother in junior high school together live in the cousin's house, often sleep together at night on the sofa in the cousin's living room.
老太太在董婉婷初三时查出晚期癌症，熬过了一场大手术。
Old lady Dong Wanting in the third day of the detection of advanced cancer, survived a major operation.
家人没瞒她，她也没表现出对死亡的在意。
Her family did not hide, nor did she show concern for her death.
手术终于结束，麻醉药力还未退去，阖着眼的老人嘴里嘀嘀咕咕：红中赖子杠——原来已经在梦里打上了武汉麻将。
At last the operation was over and the anesthetic was still working. The closed-minded old man muttered to himself, Red Zhongraizi Bang, who had already played Wuhan Mahjong in his dream.
董婉婷计划在毕业设计里把对外婆从未说出口的感情表达出来。
Dong Wanting plans to express her feelings to her grandmother in her graduation project.
还没动工，她被病毒困在了家里。
She was trapped in her home by a virus before construction began.
她不知道自己能否有机会毕业，甚至不知道自己能否活下来，但某一刻她突然清晰地知道，自己要“利用手边有的一切东西”，把毕业设计做出来。
She didn't know if she had a chance to graduate or even survive, but at one point it became clear that she wanted to "use everything at hand" and do the graduation project.
在任何有力气的时候，她开始造纸。
Whenever she was strong, she began to make paper.
用餐巾纸加水溶成纸浆，再一点点塑形，捏合成手边一件外婆衣服的形状。
Use napkin and water to dissolve into pulp, then a little bit of shape, pinch the shape of a grandmother's clothes on hand.
那是一件褐色的对襟褂子，穿了多年。
That's a brown bodice, worn for years.
油污的浸染使得布料有了雕塑的质感。
The oil spill gives the cloth a sculptural feel.
油污来自无数逝去日子的平凡三餐。
Oil from countless days away from the ordinary meals.
4她不知道自己这样做，是为了转移注意力不去考虑死亡，还是想为可能的死亡做准备，让自己能留下点什么。
She did not know whether she was doing this in order to divert attention from the thought of death or to prepare herself for a possible death and leave something to herself.
或许两者都有。
Maybe both.
疫情来之前，她无数次思考死亡，从哲学或艺术的角度。
Before the outbreak came, she thought about death countless times, from a philosophical or artistic point of view.
但这一次，她听见自己脑海里的声音，简单而强烈：我想活。
But this time she heard in her head a simple, powerful voice: I want to live.
那“庸常的、平凡的”生命，她一点也不想舍弃。
She did not want to part with that "ordinary, ordinary" life.
这种欲望一度表现为愤怒。
This desire once manifested itself in anger.
阳光偶尔露面的时候，这个小病人坐在隔离点的阳台上，裹着带过来的唯一一件羽绒服，捧着鲁迅的《呐喊》。
Occasionally the sun appeared, the little patient sat on the balcony of the isolation point, wrapped in the only down jacket, holding Lu Xun's "Scream."
夜里，她反复读北岛的《回答》：为了在审判之前，宣读那些被判决了的声音：告诉你吧，世界，我——不——相——信！转移到隔离点时，没给她多少收拾行李的时间。
At night, she read the North Island Answer: In order to read the condemned voices before the trial: Tell you what, the world, I - no - phase - letter! There was not much time to pack up when she was transferred to the quarantine point.
她爱旅游，“说走就走”，常备洗漱包和简单换洗衣物，省下的时间用在挑书上。
She loves to travel, "walk away", standing wash bag and simple change of clothes, the time saved in picking books.
一本介绍哲学基础知识的《大问题》，她大一时就买了，这时才静下心阅读。
A book on the fundamentals of philosophy, "Big Problem," she bought it when she was a freshman, then quietly reading.
她试着回答书里提出的问题：如果还有生命还有几分钟，她想打通电话，给谁她还不知道。
She tried to answer the question in the book: If there were a few more minutes left, she wanted to call. Who she didn't know.
与此同时，越来越多的人闯进这个内向女孩沉默的时间线。
At the same time, more and more people break into this silent timeline for the girl.
学校的辅导员每天在各个群里转发求救信息，也包括董婉婷的。
School counselors relayed distress messages in groups every day, including Dong Wanting's.
同学加入了接力，把信息扩散出去，没有人知道传播的哪一个节点最终能帮上忙。
Students joined the relay, spread the message out, and no one knew which node would eventually help.
越来越多号码触到了她的手机，来自同学，也来自陌生人。
More and more numbers touched her cell phone, from classmates and strangers alike.
人们想知道她状态如何，试图提供帮助。
People want to know how she is and try to help.
居家隔离期间，发着烧的董婉婷参与了一次毕业设计的线上汇报。
During the isolation of the home, the burning Dong Wan Ting participated in a graduation project online reporting.
她的导师表达了对她进度的不满，这让她非常委屈。
Her mentor expressed her dissatisfaction with her progress, which made her very unhappy.
导师一贯严格，在她的眼里近乎“苛刻”。
The tutor was always strict, almost "harsh" in her eyes.
董婉婷畏惧他，也尊重他。
Dong Wanting was afraid of him and respected him.
他是《阅读城市》课程的任课教师。
He is a teacher in the Reading City course.
在他指导下，这个土生土长的武汉姑娘重新发现自己习以为常的城市，色彩在她眼前鲜明起来。
Under his guidance, the native Wuhan girl found herself once more the city to which she was accustomed.
也是在他建议下，她尝试用餐巾纸进行艺术创作。
Also at his suggestion, she tried to create art using napkins.
董婉婷告诉导师，自己写了遗书。
Dong Wanting told her tutor that she had written her suicide note.
电话那头，接近60岁的老师沉默了很久，对学生说：过60年你再想这件事吧。
At the other end of the line, the near-60-year-old teacher was silent for a long time and said, You can think about it in 60 years.
后来，董婉婷听说老师去找了学校，要求救救自己的学生。
Later, Dong Wanting heard that the teacher went to the school, to save their own students.
在硚口第一职业教育中心隔离点，董婉婷遇见了在大厅里迎接的救援队队长马于飞、隔离点的负责人。
In Zhangkou No. 1 vocational education center isolation point, Dong Wanting met in the hall to meet the rescue team leader Ma Yu-fei, the head of the isolation point.
她记得马队长对她说：“你有什么事情，一定要告诉我。
She remembered Captain Ma saying to her, "Tell me what you want.
”马于飞是志愿者，湖北荆州出生，在武汉工作，口音模糊地介于这两者之间。
Ma Yu-fei, a volunteer born in Jingzhou, Hubei province, worked in Wuhan with an accent vaguely between the two.
如果不是疫情，45岁的他当时应该正在英国过春节，与居住在那里的妻子儿子团聚。
Had it not been for the outbreak, he would have been in England for the Spring Festival, reuniting with his wife and son.
他此前承包工程，和政府打过交道，从他们那儿听说了开设隔离点的消息。
He had previously worked on projects, had dealt with the government, and he had heard from them about the quarantining point.
机票被取消后他想，干脆做点儿什么吧，于是来到了这里。
After the ticket was canceled, he thought, do something about it, and he came here.
2月7日开放后，隔离点迎来居住高峰，300多人陆续搬进来。
Following the opening on 7 February, the quarantining point reached its peak, with more than 300 people moving in.
从各个社区驶来的车子，最晚一班常到后半夜3点。
Cars from various communities often arrive at 3am at the latest.
据马于飞介绍，这时期来的病人几乎都是疑似，“核酸一测一个阳性”，平均待3天即会转移去医院。
According to Ma Yu-fei, the period of almost all patients are suspected, "a positive nucleic acid test," an average of three days will be transferred to the hospital.
病人们年龄两级分化，年纪最大的超过70岁，最小的17岁。
Patients are divided into two age groups, the oldest being over 70 and the youngest being 17.
隔离点居住过13个家庭，都是一家子全部感染，被安置在不能接触的小单间里。
The quarantined site housed 13 families, all of whom were infected and housed in unreachable single rooms.
马于飞带队的70多位志愿者从早忙到晚，一趟一趟上病区放饭、测体温。
More than 70 volunteers, led by Ma Yu-fei, went to the sick area for dinner and temperature check from morning till night.
累了，就在办公室的折叠床上略躺一躺。
Tired, just lie down on the folding bed in the office.
隔离点有一个微信群，病人在其中联系志愿者。
The isolation site has a microscopic community in which patients contact volunteers.
然而，老年患者大多不会使用智能手机，要牙刷、热水，只能等志愿者上门询问。
However, most elderly patients do not use smartphones, toothbrushes, hot water, can only wait for volunteers to ask.
老年人大多有基础疾病，药物也依赖志愿者购买。
Most of the elderly have basic illnesses and depend on volunteers for their medicines.
硚口区当时只有一家药房营业，一天开门几小时。
Only one pharmacy was open in Zekou district for several hours a day.
整栋楼都在对抗着未知命运投下的阴影。
The whole building is in the shadow of an unknown fate.
13个家庭里，有8家暴发过矛盾，需要志愿者劝架。
In 8 out of 13 families, conflicts had broken out and required counselling by volunteers.
马于飞和同事还需要特别注意老年患者的精神状况。
Ma and his colleagues also need to pay special attention to the mental health of elderly patients.
他们中的一些已表现出自杀倾向，“撞墙的都有”，好在都被及时救下。
Some of them have shown suicidal tendencies, "hit the wall have", fortunately are saved in time.
隔离点每天有两位医生。
There are two doctors in the quarantine every day.
医生的来源并不固定，有些来自外省的医疗队，有些是当地的志愿者医生。
The sources of doctors are variable, ranging from medical teams in the provinces to local volunteer doctors.
董婉婷接受了4次核酸检测。
Dong Wan Ting received four nucleic acid tests.
每一次等结果时，她都怀着小小的、几乎天真的期待：也许是搞错了。
Each time she waits for the result, she waits with a small, almost naive expectation that she may have made a mistake.
4次结果，3次阴性。
4 results, 3 negative.
后来的新闻提到，不少新冠肺炎患者存在试剂盒假阴性的情况，要配合影像学结果判断。
Later news reports mentioned that many patients with new crown pneumonia had false-negative test kits, to be judged in conjunction with imaging results.
她的肺正在“溺水”。
Her lungs are drowning.
求助信息显示，当时的她“明显胸痛，淋巴浮肿吞咽有困难，高烧咳嗽，呼吸急促”。
She had "obvious chest pain, difficulty swallowing lymphatic swelling, a high fever and cough, and shortness of breath," she said.
发病1个月，居家隔离一周半，隔离点隔离9天，上报3次身体不适，去医院治疗的机会始终没来。
One month of illness, one and a half days of isolation at home, nine days of isolation, three reported cases of ill health, and the opportunity to go to the hospital was never reached.
2月11日晚，她写下了遗书。
On the evening of February 11, she wrote her suicide note.
2月17日上午，马于飞来到董婉婷的房间，帮她拿来一盒纸巾。
On the morning of February 17, the horse flew to Dong Wanting's room and brought her a box of tissues.
董婉婷一直以为这是一个幸运的转折。
Dong Wanting always thought this was a lucky turn.
实际上，马于飞已经关注她3天了。
In fact, the horse had been watching her for three days.
志愿者告诉他，这个房间的女孩儿不再吃早饭了，他觉得情况不对。
The volunteer told him that the girl in the room no longer had breakfast and that he felt the situation was wrong.
马于飞询问了具体状况，为董婉婷找来了医生。
Ma Yu-fei asked about the specific situation for Dong Wanting found a doctor.
医生判断，已经是重症了。
The doctor judged that he was seriously ill.
董婉婷不知道外面的情况，马于飞则十分清楚床位的紧张，重症之外还有更重的。
Dong Wanting does not know the outside situation, the horse in the Feifei very clear bed tension, there are more serious in addition to the serious.
他告诉中青报·中青网记者，自己动用了一点私人关系。
He told the China Youth Daily that he had used some personal contacts.
董婉婷则听说，他跑去防疫指挥部“吵架”了。
Dong Wanting heard that he went to the anti-epidemic command "quarrel."
当天晚上，董婉婷接到消息，连夜转院，到汉阳区的武汉同济医院接受治疗。
That night, Dong Wan Ting received news that night referral hospital, to Hanyang District Wuhan Tongji Hospital to receive treatment.
直到离开，她都不知道马队长究竟长什么样——防护服遮住了他的脸。
She did not even know what Captain Horse looked like until she left -- his face was covered with protective clothing.
马于飞则忘不了董婉婷看向他的眼神，“那种无助”。
Ma Feifei will not forget Dong Wan Ting looked at him, "that kind of helplessness."
这个女孩让他想起自己的儿子。
The girl reminded him of his son.
5在汉阳同济，声音和光又回来了。
In the Han Dynasty, sound and light came back.
即使到深夜，医院的灯也不会完全熄灭。
Even late at night, the hospital lights will not go out completely.
她能听见医生护士穿防护服在走廊来来去去，那是一种类似挥舞塑料袋的声音，脚步沉重。
She could hear doctors and nurses in protective clothing coming and going in the hallway, a sort of plastic bag-waving sound, heavy-footed.
但这让她安心。
But it reassured her.
到达医院后，她给妈妈打电话，告诉她自己确诊新冠肺炎，已经住院。
When she arrived at the hospital, she called her mother and told her that she had confirmed pneumonia and was hospitalized.
妈妈让她好好养病，语气里没有惊讶。
There was no surprise in her mother's tone as she made her well.
董婉婷突然感觉到，妈妈可能很早就猜到女儿的情况不对，妈妈都知道。
Dong Wanting suddenly felt that the mother may have guessed that the situation of her daughter is wrong, mother know.
住院的头几天里，她几乎日夜昏睡。
During the first few days of hospitalization, she nearly fell asleep day and night.
治疗的药物带来副作用，呕吐、恶心。
Therapeutic drugs bring side effects such as vomiting and nausea.
慢慢地，她清醒的时间越来越长。
Slowly, her waking hours grew longer and longer.
医生告诉她，在她身体内，年轻的免疫系统正在药物帮助下与病毒对抗。
Doctors told her that in her body, the young immune system was fighting the virus with the help of drugs.
她开始发现，自己“骨子里终究还是一个武汉人”。
She began to find that she "in the end is still a Wuhan people."
武汉人执着，而她如此执着于活下去这件事。
Wuhan people persist, but she is so persistent in the matter of living.
眼前的一切都让她觉得惊喜：窗外的天空，墙上的日影，包苹果的硫酸纸透过光线的好看颜色。
She was pleasantly surprised by the sky outside the window, the shadows on the wall, and the beautiful color of the sulfate paper that covered the apples.
这是她第二次体会这种惊喜。
It was the second time she had experienced such a surprise.
在学习《阅读城市》时，她读到一种遗憾：“常见有人卜居一地数十载，阅尽沧桑却熟视无睹，成了久住的过客，到底没有主人的心情。
In learning "Reading the City," she read a regret: "It is common for people to live in a place for decades, but not see the vicissitudes of life, has become a long-lived passer-by, after all, no master's mood.
”董婉婷在一颗梨子上记录她被隔离至今的日期。
Dong Wanting recorded the date of her isolation on a pear.
受访者供图绕着梨子的果柄，她一圈一圈写下日期，从发病到如今活着的每一天。
The interviewee used the stem of a pear to write down the date in a circle, from the onset of illness to the present day.
她一天要吞下20多片药，抠出一板胶囊，在表面写下自己的隔离日记，又小心塞回去。
She would swallow more than 20 tablets a day, stint out a capsule, write down her own isolation diary on the surface, and tuck it back carefully.
还有一颗药，她在上面画了一只小小的蝙蝠。
There was also a medicine on which she drew a small bat.
离开隔离点去医院的夜里，导师告诉她：每个人都做自己可以做到的事情，这个世界就会越来越好。
During the night away from the quarantine point to the hospital, the instructor told her that the world would get better and better if everyone did what they could.
她反复咂摸这句话。
She smacked her lips over the words.
医院在病人中招募志愿者协助护士，她犹豫了一整天才去报名。
The hospital recruited volunteers among the patients to assist the nurse. She hesitated all day to sign up.
对方很高兴：你是第一个。
The other side is very happy: you are the first.
这是她从未有过的举动。
It was something she had never done before.
得病之前，她花了两年才做好心理建设参加班级聚会。
Before she got sick, it took her two years to build her mind for the class party.
她仍旧内向，紧张于人与人的联系，但她已经开始体会到自己需要这种联系，并感谢它。
She was still introverted and nervous about human contact, but she was beginning to feel the need for that connection and was grateful for it.
护士们的任务很重，不仅有医疗上的，还要负责搬运物料、给病人放饭等杂事。
Nurses have heavy tasks, not only on medical care, but also to carry materials, meals for patients and other chores.
防护服笼罩全身，董婉婷一开始分不出他们谁是谁，只能从声音里听到他们的疲惫。
Protective clothing over the whole body, Dong Wan Ting at first can not distinguish who they are, can only hear their tired voice.
后来她发现，防护服遮不住眼睛，每个人的眼睛都不一样。
Later, she found that the protective clothing could not cover the eyes, everyone's eyes are different.
志愿者大多都是年轻人，她们在身体状况好时尽力协助护士，帮助减轻她们杂事上的负担。
Most of the volunteers were young people who tried to help the nurses when they were in good health, helping to lighten their burden of chores.
妇女节的时候，董婉婷收到落款为“A10病区全体的医护工作者”的信，写在大红纸上，祝“我们科的小美女早日康复”。
On Women's Day, Tung Wan Ting received a letter from "all the health care workers in the A10 affected area," written on red paper, wishing "our beautiful young woman recover soon."
随信还有一朵玫瑰花、一盒巧克力。
I also have a rose and a box of chocolates.
她们制作了一档音频节目，在医院的广播系统中播出。
They produced an audio programme, which was broadcast on the hospital's broadcasting system.
董婉婷负责组织人员。
Dong Wanting is responsible for organizing staff.
第一期节目里，有年轻人说：除了生死，没有大事。
In the first episode, a young man said, There is no big deal except life and death.
武汉的春天如约来了。
Wuhan spring has come as promised.
马于飞感觉到气温上升，忙碌时衬衣外罩一件夹克就够了。
Ma Fei Fei felt the temperature rise, when busy shirt outer jacket is enough.
他所在的隔离点，疑似病例大大减少，入住者身体状况普遍不算太差。
His isolation, suspected cases have been greatly reduced, and occupants are generally not in poor health.
任务量减轻，志愿者缩减到了26个。
The number of assignments was reduced to 26 volunteers.
他偶尔会想想疫情结束后，自己能飞离武汉，赶上与妻儿迟到的相聚。
Occasionally he would think that after the outbreak, he would be able to fly out of Wuhan to catch up with his wife and children.
大四学生董婉婷每天都在操心毕业的事情。
Dong Wanting, a senior student, worries about graduation every day.
她计划出国深造，但雅思考试已经推迟，申请学校时需要的作品集还没来得及整理。
She plans to go abroad for further study, but the IELTS exam has been put off, and the collection of works she needs for school hasn't been finished yet.
在病房里，再次向导师汇报毕业设计进度的时间点到了，她从头天夜里就开始紧张。
In the ward, the time came to report back to the tutor on the progress of her graduation project. She had been nervous from the beginning of the night.
女孩试探着说自己的论文不好写，导师回了四个字：按要求写。
The girl felt that her paper was hard to write and the instructor answered four words: Write as required.
走出医院时，她还穿着那身50天没换的粉红色羽绒服。
She walked out of the hospital wearing the pink down jacket, which she hadn't changed in 50 days.
她位于A10病区的床位空了，病区的墙上留下她和志愿者伙伴们的墙画：一只戴着口罩的兔子。
Her bed in the A10 was empty, leaving a wall in the sick area with pictures of her and her fellow volunteers: a rabbit in a mask.
这之前，医院经过紧急改造，墙面刷了一遍白。
Before this, the hospital went through the emergency reconstruction, the wall painted again white.
她给医护写了一封“出院信”，因为慎重，写了3遍，“那些难以想象的艰难，除了你们，谁又知道呢……这个生病的武汉，因为有你们，才有解药。
She wrote a letter to the doctors and nurses, carefully, three times, saying, "Those unimaginable hardships, who but you know... this sick Wuhan, because you have the antidote.
”她接着写道：“不要麻木！……真实，我们谁也不能逃避它，面对是唯一的解答。
"Don't be numb," she continued... "Truly, none of us can escape it, and facing it is the only answer.
”她还是会时时想起外婆，她的“家家”。
"She would think of Grandma, her" family, "all the time.
外婆术后，她一度担心老人的身体。
After grandma's surgery, she worried about the old man's health.
但一年又一年，老太太坚挺着，照顾孙辈，准备着日日三餐。
But year after year, the old lady was firm, taking care of her grandchildren and preparing three meals a day.
“心大”，“一个典型的武汉人”。
"Heart big", "a typical Wuhan people."
还是有一点不一样。
It's still a little different.
每年春节前，武汉家庭要腌鱼腌肉灌香肠。
Every Spring Festival, Wuhan family to pickled fish pickled meat sausage.
这是体力活，也是外婆的拿手好戏。
It's physical work, and it's grandma's job.
手术后，老人再也没做过了。
After the operation, the old man never did it again.
董婉婷觉得这场疫情永远改变了自己，她“变得更勇敢”了。
Dong Wanting felt that the epidemic had changed her forever and that she had become "braver."
对于那个困扰过自己的宏大问题，她暂时有了答案。
For the time being she had an answer to the big question that had troubled her.
或许，她搞错了顺序：“以前我老在寻找生命的意义，因为我觉得，生命要有意义，然后才会有力量。
Perhaps she had made a mistake: "I used to look for meaning in life because I felt that life had to be meaningful before it had the power.
现在我认为，生命本身就是力量。
Now I believe that life itself is power.
”武汉将是她“生命中最重要的城市”，而她此刻期待有一天离开，去看看更大的世界——那是22岁的她写在遗书中的愿望。
Wuhan will be "the most important city in her life," and she is looking forward to one day leaving to see the larger world - the 22-year-old's wish in her last letter.
中国青年报·中国青年网出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
China Youth Daily & amp; China Youth Net & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一个武汉女孩的生死问答。
Wuhan girl's life and death question and answer.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "一个武汉女孩的生死问答";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; a Wuhan girl.
var msg_desc = "谁也不能逃避真实，面对是唯一的解答。
var msg _ desc = & quot; no one can escape truth, and face is the only answer.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
