低气压之地。
Low pressure.
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
2月29日凌晨，武汉市第一医院负压病房里，护士们在工作。
Nurses work in a negative pressure ward at Wuhan's First Hospital in the early morning of Feb. 29.
李强/摄本文约7206字预计阅读时间19分钟作者 | 中青报·中青网见习记者 李强 鲁冲编辑 | 张国室内气压比室外低了5帕。
Li Qiang / Photographer About 19 Minutes Estimated Reading Time Author & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & #
保持低气压，目的只有一个：隔离。
Keep the pressure low for one purpose: isolation.
空气只能自外向内流动，室内的带毒气体不会流到外面。
Air can only flow in from the outside, the indoor toxic gas will not flow outside.
负压病房，是2003年SARS疫情之后，世界卫生组织制定的《SARS的医院感染控制指南》中推荐的隔离救治的最优选择。
The negative pressure ward is the best choice of isolation treatment recommended in the WHO Guidelines for Hospital Infection Control of SARS after the SARS epidemic in 2003.
武汉紧急建设的火神山医院与雷神山医院，所有病房均为负压病房。
Wuhan emergency construction of the Vulcan Mountain Hospital and Lei Shenshan Hospital, all wards are negative pressure wards.
这样的病房，在武汉市第一医院只有两间，位于重症医学科。
Such a ward, in Wuhan City only two first hospital, located in the severe medical science.
每间病房里，一张病床，一个安静的病人。
In every ward, a bed, a quiet patient.
他们是医院近千名此类病人里病情最重的。
They are the worst of nearly a thousand such patients in hospitals.
1“在ICU（重症监护室）设计之初，就会设计两间可以正负压切换的隔离病房，功能就是应对公共卫生事件。
"When ICU (Intensive Care Unit) is designed, two isolation rooms can be designed to switch between positive and negative pressures. Their function is to respond to public health events.
”武汉市第一医院重症医学科主任范学朋说，一般大医院会有负压病房，但数量很少。
Fan Xuepeng, director of severe medicine at Wuhan's No. 1 Hospital, said there would be negative pressure wards in large hospitals, but only in small numbers.
他所在的这家三甲医院，只是在2016年用这两间病房收治过H7N9型禽流感病人。
His triple-A hospital used the two wards only in 2016 to treat patients with H7N9 avian influenza.
“这种病例不会突然来那么多，我们医院不是以承担这类职责为主，每家医院就没有必要去成立这么多的负压隔离病房。
"There won't be so many cases coming out of the blue. Our hospitals don't focus on this sort of responsibility and every hospital doesn't have to have so many negative pressure isolation rooms.
”范学朋告诉记者，“平时不太会去用它，（除非）碰到一些特殊的病人，比如遇到很厉害的耐药菌，因为担心感染别人。
Fan told reporters, "It's not often used unless there are special patients, such as resistant bacteria, who are afraid of infecting others.
”但在2020年之初的武汉，新冠肺炎病人出现了几万例。
But in Wuhan, early in 2020, there were tens of thousands of new cases of pneumonia.
2月11日起，武汉市第一医院成了临时改造的传染病定点医院之一。
Since February 11, Wuhan City Hospital No. 1 has become one of the temporary renovation of the designated hospital for infectious diseases.
2月29日凌晨，范学朋去负压病房上班时，病房里住着两个新冠肺炎病人。
In the early morning hours of Feb. 29, two patients with pneumonia were living in the ward when Fan went to work in the negative pressure ward.
当时医院唯一一台ECMO（人工膜肺）机器也在那儿开着，用于暂时替代一位病人撑不住的肺。
There, too, was the hospital's only ECMO machine, used to temporarily replace a patient's failing lung.
从他所住的宾馆出发，只需步行穿过利济北路，就是医院的门诊楼。
The only way to get from his hotel was to walk through the Lizzie North Road, the out-patient building of the hospital.
门口的利济北路公交车站，最近只有“防疫交通保障车”停在站台边，接送医护人员上下班。
At the gate of the Lizi North Road bus station, only the "epidemic prevention traffic support car" stopped at the platform side, to transport medical personnel to and from work.
“现在进医院容易多了。
"It's so much easier to get into the hospital now.
”范学朋说。
"said Pham.
往常那个嘈杂的综合性大医院像是消失了。
The usual noisy general hospital seems to have disappeared.
利济北路不再被求医者堵得水泄不通，十字路口每天喊着“别挡路”的交警安静了，医院门口叫卖“包治百病”神药的老头儿也不见了。
Lizi North Road was no longer clogged with medical seekers, traffic police who shouted "Don't stand in the way" were quiet every day at the intersection, and the old man, who was peddling the "cure-all" miracle drug, was gone.
没什么特殊的事儿，没人愿意路过这里。
Nothing special. No one wants to pass here.
门诊楼大厅里空空荡荡，自助挂号机歇了，取药窗口关了。
The lobby of the clinic building was empty, the self-service register had stopped and the medicine window was closed.
只有清洁区的“物资领取处”，有人穿隔离衣站着。
There are only "pick-up areas" in the clean area, where people stand in isolated clothing.
范学朋领过防护物资，在缓冲区把自己包裹成只露着眼睛的“企鹅”，就往污染区走去。
Fan took protective gear and wrapped himself in a blind penguin in the buffer zone and headed for the contaminated area.
夜色漆黑，透过病房外走廊上的窗户，只能够看到远处高楼上零星的灯光。
The night was dark, and through the windows in the hallway outside the ward, only the distant lights of the tall building could be seen.
凌晨1点50分，范学朋进了污染区，提前了10分钟，拉门而入的响声，把护士郑旭旺吓了一跳。
At 1: 50 a.m., Fan Xuepung entered the contaminated area 10 minutes early. The noise of the door pulling in startled Zheng Xuwang, the nurse.
负压病房里，负责为两位病人做护理是4位护士。
In the negative pressure ward, there are four nurses in charge of nursing two patients.
郑旭旺是4位护士中唯一的男性，时刻保持着对病房里异响的警觉，因为这里是重症监护室，异响可能意味着危险。
Zheng Xuwang, the only male of the four nurses, was on constant alert for abnormal noises in the ward, which could mean danger.
他在ICU做了6年护士，熟悉病房里的声音：空气净化器的“呼呼”、脚上塑料袋的“沙沙”、心电监护仪的“嘀嘀”，尤其是各种仪器发出的高频的报警声。
He spent six years as a nurse at the ICU, familiarizing himself with the sounds of the room: the "whir" of the air purifier, the "rustle" of plastic bags on his feet, the "ticks" of the electrocardiograph (ECG) monitor, and especially the high-frequency alarm sounds of various instruments.
范学朋打开那扇铅门，进入这低气压之地。
Fan Xuepong opened the lead door and entered the low-pressure place.
铅门内，57岁的方梅英（化名）身上插着5根管子，包括直入肺部的一根气管；73岁的张小兰（化名）身上插着7根，多出来的两根，正连接着ECMO。
Inside the lead door, 57-year-old Fang Mei-ying (not her real name) had five tubes stuck in her body, including a trachea running into her lungs; 73-year-old Zhang Xiaolan (not her real name) had seven more, two of which were connected to ECMO.
她们一直躺在病床上昏迷不醒，如果醒来，会透过一面透明的玻璃望见另一个房间里的对方——每一个医生和护士都期待她们醒来。
They lie unconscious in their beds, and if they wake up, they will see each other in the other room through transparent glass - every doctor and nurse expects them to wake up.
事实上，病人的名字有时候会被一次次喊起。
In fact, patients' names are sometimes called out again and again.
范学朋查房时会做一件事：一边拍病人的肩膀，一边喊病人的姓名。
Fan Xuepeng will do one thing in the room: patting the patient on the shoulder and calling the patient's name.
即使对方没有反应，他也会打开手电筒，在病人眼睛上晃一晃，看瞳孔的对光反应。
Even if the other person does not respond, he will turn on the flashlight, in the patient's eyes, to see the pupil of the light response.
他知道，救治这种病情危重的肺炎病人，成功率并不高。
He knew that the success rate of treating this critically ill patient with pneumonia was not high.
“我们希望能够给她争取一个机会。
"We want to give her a chance.
”范学朋说，“ECMO没有治疗作用，什么时候好了，能撤（ECMO）取决于肺。
"ECMO has no therapeutic effect," Fan said. "When it gets better, ECMO withdrawal depends on the lung.
”这天凌晨4点40分，他们为张小兰翻了一次身。
"At 4: 40 a.m. that day, they rolled over for Zhang Xiaolan.
张小兰有些胖，他们费力地提起垫被，把一个枕头塞在张小兰的背下。
Zhang Xiaolan is a little fat, they struggle to lift the quilt, put a pillow in Zhang Xiaolan's back.
翻身，也是为了避免压疮，减少感染的可能性。
Turn, also to avoid pressure sore, reduce the possibility of infection.
“哎，她有点儿醒了！”护士程诗雨突然说，“脚有点动，范主任！”她掀开盖在张小兰脚上的被子时，第一次看到这个病人有身体上的反应。
"Oh, she's a little awake!" Nurse Cheng Shi Yu suddenly said, "Feet move a little, Fan!" She lifted the quilt covering Zhang's foot and saw the patient's physical reaction for the first time.
范学朋转身瞅向床尾。
Fan turned to the back of the bed.
郑旭旺也说：“眼睛睁了！”“嘀嘀嘀”响着的监护仪上，张小兰的血氧饱和度从99%下降至95%，而后又回到了99%。
"His eyes are open!" Zhang Xiaolan's blood oxygen saturation dropped from 99% to 95% and then returned to 99%, said Zheng.
翻身结束后，范学朋弯下腰凑近看着张小兰：“婆婆，坚持一下就好了，好不好？听到没有……张小兰，听到没有？”没有反应。
After turning over, Fan Xuepung bent down to look at Zhang Xiaolan: "Mother-in-law, just hold on, ok? Hear no... Zhang Xiaolan, do you hear?" No response.
“记得睡觉，现在睡觉是你的主要任务。
"Remember to sleep. Sleep is your main task now.
”郑旭旺嘱咐这个不会回答的老人。
Zheng Xuwang charged the old man who could not answer.
2月29日凌晨，武汉市第一医院负压病房里，护士们在帮一位病人翻身。
Nurses help a patient turn over in the early morning hours of Feb. 29, in a negative pressure ward at Wuhan's First Hospital.
李强/摄2总体而言，与几天前相比，张小兰病情已经稳定许多。
Overall, Zhang Xiaolan is much more stable than a few days ago.
范学朋记得，2月25日那天，医院本决定给一位64岁的新冠肺炎病人上ECMO。
Fan recalls that on Feb. 25, the hospital decided to give ECMO to a 64-year-old patient with pneumonia.
这位病人即使做了气管插管，血氧饱和度也只能够维持在80%左右。
Even with a trachea intubation, the patient was able to maintain a blood oxygen saturation of only about 80%.
那天下午，一台ECMO刚被运到医院，这是当时医院里唯一的。
That afternoon, an ECMO arrived at the hospital, the only one at the time.
为病人上ECMO所需的配套医疗设备，还要四处找别的医院借。
Get the medical equipment you need for your ECMO, and look for other hospitals to lend you.
“在非疫情期间打个电话给人家，可以送货的。
"Call someone during the non-epidemic and deliver the goods.
现在都买不到了，武汉都断货了。
I can't buy it now. Wuhan is out of stock.
”范学朋和护士长东拼西凑：用于穿刺的导管是找武汉市肺科医院借来的，扩张鞘是找武汉市金银潭医院借来的，ACT血凝监测仪是从武汉市亚洲心脏病医院借来的。
Fan Xuepeng and the head nurse patched together: The catheter for the puncture was borrowed from Wuhan Lung Hospital, the dilated sheath was borrowed from the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital in Wuhan, and the ACT blood clot monitor was borrowed from the Asian Heart Hospital in Wuhan.
但等到2月26日，医院发现73岁的张小兰“情况更糟糕”，已经被下过病危通知。
But by February 26, the hospital found Zhang Xiaolan, 73, "in worse condition" and had been critically ill.
“给她纯氧，血氧饱和度也只有60%，上不去。
"Give her pure oxygen, and the oxygen saturation of the blood is only 60 percent.
”范学朋说，此前那位64岁病人的血氧饱和度升至90%左右，医院决定要给张小兰做，“她不做立刻就会走了！”“只有一台ECMO，只能选择更重的一个。
Fan said the 64-year-old patient's blood oxygen saturation had risen to about 90 percent, and the hospital decided to give it to Zhang Xiaolan.
”他说。
'he said.
2月26日下午2点左右，上ECMO所需的静脉置管手术，在没有无影灯的这间负压病房里开始了。
At around 2 p.m. on February 26, the venous catheterization required for ECMO began in the negative pressure ward, where there was no shadow light.
程诗雨站在病房一角，往医生们手里递送手术器械。
Standing in a corner of the ward, Cheng delivered surgical instruments to the doctors.
郑旭旺下班路过，看到病房里乌压压全是人。
Zheng Xuwang came by after work and saw that the pressure in the ward was full of people.
许多护士第一次见到ECMO的实战操作，前来学习。
Many nurses first saw ECMO actual combat operations, came to learn.
5位医生在蒙了一层水雾的护目镜后，花了约6个小时才完成这次手术。
It took about six hours for the five doctors to complete the procedure after they had covered themselves with watery goggles.
后来，张小兰的血氧饱和度维持在99%左右，只是一直昏迷不醒。
Later, Zhang Xiaolan's blood oxygen saturation maintained in the 99% or so, just has been unconscious.
护士们用橡胶手套吹起一个气球，于是一只“胖手”向上撑着气管，向下垫在张小兰的头边，以免管道对她造成压疮。
Nurses blow up a balloon with rubber gloves, so a "fat hand" holds up the trachea and cushions it down on Zhang Xiaolan's head, lest the tube cause her pressure sore.
不知是谁，在气球上画了一张笑脸，写了“加油”二字。
I do not know who, in the balloon painted a smiling face, wrote "refueling" the word.
两位病人都是2月26日从本医院其他病区转进来的，身上都连着管子，接着不同仪器。
Both patients had been transferred from other areas of the hospital on 26 February, with pipes attached to their bodies and different instruments.
“没有这些，可能就没办法维持身体的运转。
"Without this, you might not be able to keep your body functioning.
”郑旭旺说。
'said Zheng.
透明的，被一颗红色螺丝固定在嘴边的是气管插管；黄色的，从鼻腔进入为病人补给营养的是鼻肠管；红色的，连接ECMO的是两根静脉置管；还有帮助病人排尿的尿管，用来实时监测血压的动脉留置针管，以及一根用来输液的中心静脉置管。
Transparent, fastened to the mouth by a red screw, is a trachea tube; yellow, from the nasal cavity into which the patient is fed; red, with two venous catheters connecting ECMO; and a ureter to help urinate, an arterial indwelling tube to monitor blood pressure in real time, and a central venous tube for infusion.
红色的那两根管子，是病房里少有的可以感受到温热的管子，里面流着病人的血液。
The red pipes were the rare warm pipes in the ward where the patient's blood flowed.
郑旭旺观察过，从病人身体流出的血液是暗红色，进入ECMO再流出之后，血液会变得鲜红。
Zheng Xuwang has observed that the blood flowing from the patient's body is dark red and will turn bright red after entering ECMO.
张小兰的肺被病毒感染后，功能丧失，床边的ECMO暂时替代了她的肺，帮忙清理掉血液中的二氧化碳，再将氧合的血液送回身体。
Zhang Xiaolan's lung was infected with the virus, loss of function, bedside ECMO temporarily replaced her lungs, to help clean up the blood carbon dioxide, oxygen and the blood back to the body.
“我们在和死神打一场‘拉锯战’。
"We are fighting a tug of war with death.
”郑旭旺说，“这些管子和仪器就是我们的武器。
"These pipes and instruments are our weapons," Zheng said.
”但范学朋知道，在没有特效药的情况下，住进负压病房，用上ECMO，都只是在“buy time（争取时间）”——让昏迷中的病人，有更多时间抵抗死神。
But Fan knows that, in the absence of specific drugs, living in a negative-pressure ward, with ECMO, is simply "buying time" - giving the unconscious patient more time to resist death.
2月29日凌晨，武汉市第一医院负压病房，值班的医护人员。
February 29, the first hospital in Wuhan negative pressure ward, duty of medical staff.
李强/摄3这两间“VIP病房”，其实在1月初就收治过“不明原因肺炎的病人”。
Li Qiang / She 3, the two "VIP wards," had in fact admitted "patients with unexplained pneumonia" in early January.
武汉市第一医院排查出本院第一例“不明原因肺炎的病人”，是在1月2日晚上。
Wuhan City Hospital No. 1 identified the hospital's first case of "unknown pneumonia patients" on the night of January 2.
该院呼吸内科主任罗光伟告诉记者，之后各科开始对排查出的病人进行相对的隔离。
The hospital's director of respiratory medicine, Luo Guangwei, told reporters, after which each section began to sort out the patient's relative isolation.
病情稍重的就转移到负压病房。
Those who are more serious are transferred to the negative pressure ward.
当时，这家医院还没被征用为定点救治医院。
At the time, the hospital had not been requisitioned as a designated treatment hospital.
“当时主要做的是确诊病人，然后等待转诊（到定点医院）。
"The main thing was to identify the patient and then wait for a referral (to a designated hospital).
后来发现转诊流程不通，转不出去以后，我们1月12日就迅速地扩大我们的病区了。
It turned out that the referral process was not working and that we were rapidly expanding our area on 12 January.
”范学朋告诉记者，“开了12张床以后，不行，又开了一个17张床的病区，又过了两天觉得还不行，我们就开了一个43张床的病区。
"After opening 12 beds, I couldn't, opened another 17-bed ward, and two days later we opened a 43-bed ward," Fan told reporters.
”1月10日左右，医院注意到“家庭聚集性病例”的出现，并保持着对这种疾病的警惕。
Around January 10, hospitals took note of the emergence of "family cases" and remained vigilant against the disease.
当天，罗光伟带队开始组建医院的第一个隔离病区，“把这种病人集中在那地方进行观察，和普通病人分开。
That day, Luo Guangwei led the team to set up the hospital's first quarantined area, "where the patients were concentrated for observation and separated from ordinary patients.
”两间负压病房里，病人来来往往，有的转入传染病专科医院——金银潭医院，有的转入本院的隔离病区。
In the two negative pressure wards, patients came and went, some were transferred to the specialist hospital for infectious diseases, the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, or to the isolation ward of the hospital.
武汉市第一医院重症医学科还派出一名医生和两名护士支援金银潭医院。
The Department of Severe Medicine of Wuhan No. 1 Hospital also dispatched a doctor and two nurses to support the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
后来，为了集中人力管理更多的病人，两间负压病房一度被清空了。
Later, two negative pressure wards were emptied in an effort to concentrate on managing more patients.
那时，武汉市第一医院虽非定点医院，但一直收治着无法转出的新冠肺炎病人。
At that time, Wuhan City Hospital No. 1, although not a designated hospital, but has been unable to transfer patients with new crown pneumonia.
郑旭旺在污染区上班许多天，一直没跟父母说。
Zheng went to work in the polluted area for many days without telling his parents.
除夕夜，他也是和新冠肺炎病人一起度过的。
On New Year's Eve, he also spent time with patients with Newcastle pneumonia.
他记得自己护理过一位在华南海鲜市场卖螃蟹的老板娘，还开玩笑说：“等你好了，我们到那边儿去，你要给我们优惠一点儿。
He remembered nursing a lady who sold crabs at the South China seafood market and joked, "When you're all right, we'll go over there and you'll give us a discount.
”后来，那位老板娘转去了金银潭医院，再后来的事情他就不知道了。
"Then the woman transferred to the gold and silver-pond hospital, and then he did not know what would happen afterwards.
除夕夜，郑旭旺的一位大学同学发烧，烧到38.4℃，去武汉市第五医院发热门诊就诊。
On New Year's Eve, a college student of Zheng Xuwang had a fever, burning to 38.4 ℃, went to Wuhan Fifth Hospital fever clinic.
但门诊病人实在太多，“那边护士根本忙不过来”，他那位已经多年未做过护理的同学，干起了“临时护士”，帮忙换药，安抚人们的情绪。
But there were too many outpatients, "nurses over there are simply too busy," his students, who had not been nursing for years, worked as "makeshift nurses" to help change medicine and soothe people.
同一天，范学朋带着医疗队和自备的防护物资对口支援武汉市第五医院，他们在一个由妇产科病房改成的传染病病房里，陷入了“所有的设备都不熟，都不足”的境地，起初“连棉签在哪里都不知道”。
On the same day, Fan Xuepung supported Wuhan Fifth Hospital with medical team and self-provided protective materials. They found themselves in an infectious disease ward converted from gynecology and obstetrics ward.
30个等待吸氧的病人等在那里，需要30个减压阀，但只有5个，呼吸机也不足，范学朋只好“从本院不停地要，也让他们医院筹集”。
Thirty patients waiting for oxygen were waiting there and needed 30 pressure-relief valves, but there were only five, and the ventilator was insufficient. Fan Xuepong had to "keep going from the hospital and ask them to raise it."
他记得，有一个医生撑了24个小时，出来吃了一次饭，喝了一次水，去了一次洗手间，又进去了。
He remembers a doctor who stayed out for 24 hours, ate a meal, had a drink, went to the bathroom, and went in again.
范学朋已经许多年没有过这种昼夜不休、黑白颠倒的日子了。
Fan Xuepeng has not had such a day and night, black and white upside down for many years.
武汉的许多医院陷入疫情的泥潭。
Many hospitals in Wuhan are caught in an epidemic situation.
武汉原来有两家传染病医院，病床不超过1000张。
Wuhan originally had two infectious disease hospitals, hospital beds do not exceed 1000.
后来，中央指导组成员、国务院副秘书长丁向阳表示，武汉疫情高峰时，每天新增3000张床位需求，“这对世界上任何一个城市来说都是挑战”。
"It was a challenge for any city in the world" to add 3,000 beds a day at the height of the Wuhan epidemic, said Ding Xiangyang, a member of the Central Steering Committee and Deputy Secretary-General of the State Council.
2月6日，范学朋带着45人的医疗队去了临时建设的板房医院雷神山医院，那里当时尚未完工，还是一个需要穿着深筒胶鞋，蹚过泥水进入的地方。
On February 6, Fan, with a team of 45 people, went to the makeshift hospital, Raytheon Hill Hospital, which had not yet been completed, and a place to wade across the muddy water in deep-bodied rubber shoes.
病房里除了一张床，其他物品都需要自己去仓库搬，范学朋将这个过程比喻为“开荒”。
Except for a bed in the ward, everything else had to be moved to the warehouse. Fan compared the process to clearing the land.
他在这里遇到最尴尬的一幕是，2月8日晚上，当转来的病人已经等在医院门口时，病房里突然停电了，等了十几分钟又来电了。
In one of his most embarrassing moments, on the night of February 8, while the patient was waiting outside the hospital gate, the hospital room was suddenly cut off and he waited for ten minutes for another call.
首批病人入住时，因为工期紧张，还有地方在漏水。
When the first patients checked in, the schedule was tight and there was a leak.
“中间还停过氧气。
"Oxygen stopped in the middle.
”范学朋说，他们不得不先去拖了七八个氧气罐。
Fan said they had to tow seven or eight oxygen tanks first.
等到武汉市第一医院也被征用为新型冠状病毒肺炎重症收治医院后，范学朋被调回本院。
When Wuhan City Hospital No. 1 was also requisitioned as a new coronavirus pneumonia admission hospital, Fan Xuepong was transferred back to the hospital.
医院当天宣布“门诊停诊”，非新冠肺炎病人全部转移至非定点医院，医护人员也进入紧急备战状态。
The hospital announced the day of "outpatient consultation," non-new crown pneumonia patients were all transferred to non-designated hospitals, medical personnel have also entered emergency state of readiness.
医院花了30多个小时，腾空了整座外科楼。
It took the hospital more than 30 hours to vacate the entire surgical building.
外科楼从6楼至20楼，眼科、儿科、骨科、妇产科，统统成了“感染科”。
From the 6th to 20th floors of the surgery building, ophthalmology, paediatrics, orthopaedics, obstetrics and gynecology have all become "infection departments."
700多名医护人员上了一线。
More than 700 paramedics are on the frontline.
2月12日，医院准备出28个感染病区的1000张床来收治病人，这些床位3天时间就满了，重症病人达到45%。
On 12 February, the hospital prepared 1,000 beds in 28 infected areas, which were filled within three days, with 45 per cent of patients in serious condition.
呼吸内科主任罗光伟说，因为床位紧张，没能给求床位的朋友安排上住院，“得罪了不少人。
Luo Guangwei, director of respiratory medicine, said he had "offended many people" by failing to place bed-bound friends in hospital because of the shortage of beds.
”开科收病人那天，郑旭旺觉得特别累。
"Zheng Xuwang was particularly tired the day the patient was admitted.
他说，回去睡觉时，仍然梦见在“收病人”。
He said that when he went back to bed, he still dreamed of "collecting patients."
他梦见一个病人，死活不给身份信息。
He dreamed of a sick man who would not be given identity information.
“我追着他要，然后他跑了，跑着跑着我就醒了。
"I chased him for it, and then he ran, ran, and I woke.
”此前医院火爆的皮肤科门诊，成为外地医疗队的办公区。
Earlier, the hospital's hot dermatology clinic became the office of a field medical team.
来自江苏、天津等5个地区的1659名医疗队员分到了这里——在医疗资源调配上，疫情中心武汉是“低气压”之地，一批接一批的医务人员从四面八方涌到。
Here are 1,659 medical personnel from five regions, including Jiangsu and Tianjin - Wuhan, the epicentre of the epidemic, is a "low-pressure" place, with successive waves of medical personnel arriving from all sides.
程诗雨有一次下班时，碰到了一个防护服上写着“重医”的姑娘，她以为对方也是重症医学科的，一问才知道，对方是重庆医疗队的，两人相视一笑。
Cheng Shi-yu once came across a girl whose protective clothing said "heavy medicine." She thought the other party was a severe medical student.
4郑旭旺转到外科楼9楼上班后，第一次见到新冠肺炎病亡者。
4 Zheng Xuwang transfer to the ninth floor of the surgical building to work, the first time to see the new crown pneumonia deceased.
那是一位年长的女性。
It was an elderly woman.
“我去的时候她已经走了，心电监护已经撤了，但抢救时用过的药、注射器还在。
"She was gone by the time I got there. The electrocardiogram had been removed, but the drugs and syringes were still there.
”他记得，病床边的桌子上还放着一副假牙。
"He remembered that there were false teeth on the table next to the hospital bed.
拔掉那些管子之后，郑旭旺用毛巾蘸着温水为她擦拭了身体，为她合上眼睛，最后给她穿了一件病号服，等待殡仪馆的人来接她。
After pulling out the pipes, Zheng Xuwang wiped her body with a towel, wiped her eyes, and finally dressed her in a hospital gown, waiting for the undertaker to come and fetch her.
他一边做这些事，一边念着“婆婆，一路走好”。
While doing these things, he said, "My mother-in-law, all the way."
“如果是非新冠（肺炎）的病人，这些事情都是家属做。
"In the case of non-New Crown (pneumonia) patients, these things are done by family members.
”30岁的郑旭旺说，这也是让他感到心酸的地方，那位“婆婆”走的时候，住在方舱医院里隔离的家属哭着打来电话说，“想尽一个孩子应该尽的最后的孝道，也尽不了了。
Zheng Xuwang, 30, said it was also a sad place for him to feel. "As the mother-in-law left, the family in the cabin hospital cried and said," I can't do the last filial piety that a child deserves.
”转到3楼的负压病房值班后，有一天晚上他又做了一个梦，“有个病人不听话，他（抽烟）把那个房间给点着了，我们就去打火，打着打着自己就醒了。
One night, after being transferred to the negative-pressure ward on the third floor, he had another dream. "A patient disobeyed, and he set the room on fire.
”但在负压病房里，很难找到“不听话”的病人——镇静剂让他们一直保持安静。
But in negative-pressure wards, it is difficult to find "disobedient" patients - sedatives keep them quiet.
不用说点火，连用手能够感知的温热在这里都显得弥足珍贵。
Needless to say, the warmth that even the hand can perceive is precious here.
四周的墙壁和大多数仪器摸上去都是冰凉的。
The walls and most of the instruments are cold to the touch.
除了帮病人翻身时能够感受到皮肤的温度，在这两间病房里，温热的只剩下角落里放着的热水瓶、ECMO上维持血液温度的泵、呼吸机加湿器，以及那两根连接ECMO与病人的管子。
In addition to feeling the skin's temperature as the patient turns over, the two wards are left with a thermos in the corner, a blood-temperature pump on the ECMO, a ventilator humidifier, and two tubes connecting ECMO to the patient.
郑旭旺想起刚来的时候，连病人的脚都是冰凉的。
Zheng Xuwang remembered that when he first came, even the patient's feet were cold.
这里没有什么是属于病人的，除了赤裸的插着管子的身体。
There is nothing here that belongs to the patient, except the body with the tube nude.
病房里不能开空调，也不能用电热毯，护士们只能够给病人多盖一床被子取暖，用毛毯或者浴巾遮住身体私密处。
No air conditioners or electric blankets can be used in the wards, and nurses can only cover their privacy with blankets or bath towels.
“虽然她躺在床上没有意识，但你必须保证她的尊严。
"Although she is unconscious in bed, you must ensure her dignity.
”程诗雨说，“这是一个人最基本的东西。
"This is a person's most basic thing," Cheng said.
”在同一栋楼的其他病房里，病人大多是清醒的。
In the other wards of the same building, the patients were mostly sober.
他们穿着自己的衣服，坐在床边吃饭，躺在床上看《新闻联播》，跟亲人打电话，和病友聊天。
They ate in their own clothes, sat by the bed, read The News on the Bed, made phone calls to relatives and talked to sick people.
气压隔开了此处与彼处。
The air pressure separates here from there.
这些普普通通的事情并不属于负压病房。
These common things do not belong to the negative pressure ward.
5时不时，护士们会为病人的眼睛搭一块湿热的白色纱布。
From time to time, nurses put a damp, hot white gauze over the patient's eyes.
程诗雨解释，那是为了保持眼部的湿润，有时候她会发现，即使病人并未清醒过来，眼睛却微微睁着，“时间长了就会很干”。
That's to keep the eyes moist, Cheng explains. Sometimes she finds her eyes slightly open even if the patient doesn't wake up. "Time dries."
没有家属，没有护工，给病人擦拭身体、擦屎倒尿之类的任务都落到护士们身上。
There are no family members, no nurses, and the task of wiping the body and emptying the urine falls on nurses.
2个小时看一次瞳孔反射，2个小时翻一次身，每个班都可能需要为病人清理分泌物。
2 hours to see pupil reflex, 2 hours to turn over, each class may need to clear the patient's secretions.
如果有病人心率不好，整个晚上他们都要紧紧盯着，以防意外。
If a patient has a bad heart rate, they stare at him all night in case of an accident.
普通病房里，提醒护士的是病人床头的护士铃和护士站的传呼机。
In the general ward, the nurse was reminded of the nurse's bell at the head of the bed and the pager at the nurse's station.
在这里，信号是那些监护仪上代表生命体征的数字和警报。
Here, the signals are the numbers and alarms on the monitors that represent vital signs.
但警报声只是危险的信号之一。
But the alarm is only one sign of danger.
他们需要观察病人有没有活动。
They need to see if the patient is active.
“怕如果她动起来，就会下意识地拔管子。
"She was afraid that if she moved, she would pull out the pipe involuntarily.
”郑旭旺一边说着，一边用手指在空气中比划了20多厘米，这是一根气管插入病人身体内的长度，“就像一根面条卡在喉咙里”。
"As he spoke, Zheng Yuwang scratched more than 20 centimeters into the air with his fingers." It was the length of a trachea inserted into the patient's body, "like a piece of noodles stuck in your throat.
病房与护士们工作的地方之间，由铅门隔开，医护人员一晚上要进去数十次。
Between the ward and the place where the nurses worked, the doors were separated by lead, and the staff went in dozens of times a night.
就算在外面，多数时候也要透过铅门上的观察窗盯着病人。
Even outside, most of the time the patient is stared through the observation window on the lead door.
护士们要记住自己负责的病人的医嘱，什么时候抽血，什么时候用药臼碾药，什么时候把营养液续入泵中。
Nurses should remember their patients responsible for the instructions, when to draw blood, when to use acetabulum millet, when to continue the nutrient solution into the pump.
做这些事的时候，他们的动作会因为特殊穿戴变得迟缓，就连在电脑上填写护理记录，敲字也会变慢。
When they do these things, they slow down their movements because of their special clothes. They even fill in care records on their computers and type slowly.
为病人翻身更是一项复杂的“工程”。
Turning over a patient is a complex "project."
他们的衣服会被汗水浸透，护目镜会蒙上雾气，口罩会勒得耳根像刀割一样疼。
Their clothes will be soaked in sweat, their goggles will be foggy, their masks will be strangled like knives.
但郑旭旺觉得，跟之前在普通感染病区相比，如今的工作压力小了很多，那时候他一人要照顾10个新冠肺炎病人，忙的时候“整个病房来回跑”。
But Zheng felt he was less stressed than he used to be in a common infection area, where he had to take care of 10 patients with pneumonia and was busy "running back and forth across the ward."
后来，随着形势的好转，普通病房里已经有床位空出来了，负压病房里他只需要盯着一个人。
Later, as the situation improved, beds were available in the general ward and he only had to stare at one person in the negative pressure ward.
眼睛太累的时候，郑旭旺会走到窗户边，取下护目镜，让夜晚干净的凉风吹拂双眼。
When his eyes were tired, Zheng Xuwang would go to the window and take off his goggles to let the cool, clean night air blow in his eyes.
6在负压病房，黑夜和白天没有太多不同。
In the negative pressure ward, there is not much difference between night and day.
不管天色怎么变化，病人总是睡着，护士们总要警惕着。
No matter how the weather changes, the patient is always asleep and the nurses are always on their guard.
病房里只有一部智能手机，它的铃声是程诗雨最怕的东西。
There was only one smartphone in the ward, and its ringtone was Ching's worst fear.
私人手机不允许被带入污染区使用，这部手机平日负责接打医院内部科室的电话，有时候也会联系家属。
Private cell phones are not allowed to be used in polluted areas. They are used to pick up calls from internal departments and sometimes contact family members.
一旦铃响，就意味着“坏消息”来了——护士们有新的紧急任务要忙了。
When the bell rings, it means "bad news" - nurses have new urgent tasks to attend to.
凌晨5点前后十分难熬。
It was pretty rough around 5 a. m.
饿意和困意会比黎明先到。
Hunger and drowsiness will arrive before dawn.
有时打破沉寂的是肚子的咕咕叫，有时是某个人突然的咳嗽声，刺激大家在过去一个多月里遇到咳嗽者就格外敏感的神经。
Sometimes it is the rumbling of the stomach that breaks the silence, sometimes the sudden cough of some one, which stimulates the particularly sensitive nerves of those who have been coughing for more than a month.
有时，医护人员坐着或站着，在病房外聊些家长里短，缓解紧张低沉的气氛。
Sometimes the paramedics sit or stand outside the ward, chatting about their parents and calming down the tension.
他们渴望听到楼下响起拖车的声音，那意味着天快亮了，接班的同事快要来了。
They were eager to hear the trailer downstairs, which meant it was almost daybreak and their replacement was coming.
女护士们会聊起星座和孩子，或是婆婆、丈夫。
Women nurses talk about constellations and children, or about mothers-in-law and husbands.
程诗雨和丈夫、儿子“小橙子”，三人分在武汉三镇，每次视频通话都像是“三方会谈”，每次她都要留存一张截图纪念这难得的一次“见面”。
Cheng and her husband and son, "Little Orange," live in three towns in Wuhan. Each video call was like a "three-way meeting," each time she kept a screenshot to commemorate the rare "meeting."
病房里的那部手机，她最怕拿起，但外面，私人手机是她下班后迫不及待拿起的东西。
The cell phone in the ward, she was most afraid to pick up, but outside, her personal mobile phone was something she couldn't wait to pick up after work.
程诗雨提供的视频聊天截图。
Ching Shiyu provides video chat screenshots.
手机那头的“小橙子”会指着电视里穿着防护服的任何人喊“妈妈”，会学着说“武汉加油，中国加油”。
At the other end of the phone, Orange would point to anyone wearing protective clothing on TV shouting "Mom," learning to say, "Wuhan refuels, China refuels."
程诗雨在屏幕这头看哭过。
Cheng had cried at the end of the screen.
“小橙子”出生才20个月出头，已经一个多月没见到妈妈了。
Little Orange was just over 20 months old and had not seen her mother for more than a month.
负压病房里总是这样，思念、疲惫、饥饿、恐惧、渴望并存。
Negative pressure ward always like this, missing, tired, hungry, fear, desire coexist.
跟这个小小的负压病房一样，1月23日封城以后，武汉也是一个“低气压”的地方。
Like this small negative-pressure ward, Wuhan is a "low-pressure" place since the city was closed on January 23.
人们闷在家里，经历难过、生气、焦急等种种情绪的冲击，期待疫情早日过去，能够出门自由地晒晒太阳。
People in the home, experiencing sadness, anger, anxiety and other emotional shocks, looking forward to the early end of the epidemic, can go out to the sun freely.
2月29日清晨，郑旭旺做完交接班时的最后一项任务，阳光已经透过玻璃斜照过来。
In the early morning hours of Feb. 29, Zheng Xuwang finished his final assignment when the sun was already tilting through the glass.
武汉连续的阴雨，终于在这天清晨被暂时阻断了。
Wuhan continuous rain, was finally in the early morning was temporarily blocked.
窗户外面，医院院子里的迎春花，稀稀落落开着。
Outside the window, the primrose in the hospital yard, sparsely blooming.
他离开医院时是早上8点。
It was 8 a.m. when he left the hospital.
往日大厅里拥挤的人头没了，只有脚步声在四周回荡。
The crowded head of the old hall was gone, and only the sound of footsteps was heard all around.
他怀念一个多月前的那些声音：呼叫器喊着“某某某，到哪个诊室就诊”；嘈杂的人群中，小孩子哭个不停；人们去马路对面的严氏烧麦店“过早”，店员喊着“你要几两”。
He missed the voices a little more than a month ago: the caller yelled "In what room do you go?"; the children cried in the noisy crowd; people went to the Yankees barbecue shop across the street "too early"; and the clerk shouted, "How many do you want?"
再看看如今的冷清，郑旭旺总觉得眼下“不太真实”。
Look at the cold today, Zheng Xuwang always feel that the current "not very real."
那也是范学朋医生所怀念的日子，尽管他们那个时候会忙得不可开交。
It was also the day Dr Fan Xuepeng missed, though they would have been busy at the time.
回到住处，郑旭旺洗了个澡，坐在床边跟同事们聊天儿。
Back at his place, Zheng took a bath and sat down by the bed to chat with his colleagues.
大家用很平常的语气，说起身边有朋友“也中招了”，好在是轻症患者。
We use a very common tone, said that there are friends "also admitted," fortunately is light disease patients.
郑旭旺所在的科室有3位同事感染，不过已经治愈并“归队”。
Zheng Xuwang's department has three colleagues infected, but has been cured and "returned to the team."
他说，大家都希望“早点儿回归正常生活”。
Everyone wants to "get back to normal sooner," he said.
这时，一束阳光透过窗子打在他的身上，他说自己已经“半个月没晒过太阳了”。
Then a sunbeam hit him through the window, saying he had "not been in the sun for half a month."
在病房里聊天时，郑旭旺因为没有女朋友，总被同事们开玩笑。
While chatting in the ward, Zheng Xuwang was always joking with his colleagues because he had no girl friend.
一同值班的护士会嚷嚷着要给他介绍“星座搭配”的女朋友。
The nurse on duty would yell at him about his girlfriend.
郑旭旺则调侃说，要给一位姓辛的同事的孩子起名字。
Zheng Xuwang ridiculed the idea of naming the child of a colleague named Xin.
他提供了几个选项，有“辛酸”，有“辛苦”，还有“辛冠”。
He offered several options, including "bitterness," "toil," and a "crown."
中国青年报·中国青年网出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
China Youth Daily & amp; China Youth Net & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
低气压之地。
Low pressure.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "低气压之地";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; low - pressure land & quot;;
var msg_desc = "气压隔开了此处与彼处。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; barometric separated here from there.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
