汤姆·汉克斯夫妇确诊！NBA停赛！美国国会出现首例确诊病例......。
Tom and Mrs. Hanks are diagnosed! NBA suspension! The first confirmed case in the United States Congress...
中国经营报                      。
China Business News.
中国经营报。
China Business News.
与中国企业同步成长，对话商业领袖，传播商业理想，服务商业人群，《中国经营报》掌控中国商界绝对话语权。
Growing in step with Chinese companies, dialogue with business leaders, spreading business ideals, serving the business community, The China Business Administration controls the absolute voice of the Chinese business community.
。
.
随着新冠肺炎疫情的蔓延，美国人民无法再淡定下去了。
With the spread of the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic, Americans can no longer afford to let it go.
据外媒报道，当地时间11日晚，美国总统特朗普发表全国电视讲话，他阐述了政府应对新冠疫情的具体措施，包括限制欧洲来美旅行、提振经济等。
In a nationally televised speech late Thursday, President Trump outlined specific government measures to tackle the new crown, including restricting European travel to the United States and boosting the economy, foreign media reported.
特朗普表示，受疫情影响，自13日起的30天内，将暂停“从欧洲到美国的所有旅行”，但英国除外。
Trump said the outbreak would suspend "all travel from Europe to the United States" for 30 days from 13 days, with the exception of the United Kingdom.
他表示，“具体情况将根据当地情况调整。
"The specific situation will be adjusted to local conditions," he said.
”据美国有线电视新闻网（CNN）11日报道，美国新冠肺炎病毒检测结果呈阳性患者已达1237例，累计37人死亡。
A total of 1,237 people were tested positive for the new crown pneumonia virus, accounting for 37 deaths, CNN reported Tuesday.
此外，美国23个州以及华盛顿特区已宣布进入紧急状态。
In addition, 23 states and Washington, D.C., have declared a state of emergency.
汤姆·汉克斯与妻子确诊新冠肺炎据央视新闻报道，美国当地时间11日晚，正在澳大利亚的演员汤姆·汉克斯在社交网站上确认，自己和妻子在出现类似感冒引起的疲劳和身体酸痛、低烧后接受新冠肺炎检测，结果为阳性。
Tom Hanks and his wife tested positive for pneumonia on social networking site Tom Hanks confirmed on a social networking site Thursday night that they and his wife had tested positive for colds-like fatigue and soreness, as well as low fever.
汤姆·汉克斯本人表示会遵照医嘱，及时更新情况。
Tom Hanks himself said he would follow the doctor's instructions and keep the situation up to date.
图片来源：推特汤姆·汉克斯是全球最著名、成就最杰出的男演员之一，其主演的《阿甘正传》具有广泛知名度。
Source: Twitter Tom Hanks is one of the world's most famous and accomplished male actors, and its star, Forrest Gump, is widely known.
1956年7月9日，汤姆·汉克斯生于美国加州康科德，1993年、1994年，他分别主演《费城故事》《阿甘正传》，连续获得两次奥斯卡最佳男主角奖。
On July 9, 1956, Tom Hanks was born in Concord, Calif., and in 1993 and 1994, he starred in "City Story" and "Forrest Gump," winning two consecutive Academy Awards for Best Actor.
1999年，他参演了影片《拯救大兵瑞恩》。
In 1999, he appeared in the film Saving Private Ryan.
2001年10月，他获美国电影学院颁发的终身成就奖，2020年又获得第77届金球奖的终身成就奖。
In October 2001, he was awarded the Lifetime Achievement Award by the American Film Institute and the 77th Golden Globes Lifetime Achievement Award in 2020.
NBA面临无限期停摆据NBA官方报道，因受新冠肺炎疫情影响，NBA将会暂停本赛季的比赛，直至另行通知。
NBA faces indefinite suspension The NBA will suspend competition this season until further notice because of the outbreak of pneumonia in the New Crown, according to NBA officials.
图片来源：新浪微博此前，犹他爵士队的一名球员戈贝尔初步检测出新冠病毒阳性。
Source: Sina Weibo before a Utah Jazz player Gobelle initially tested positive for the new crown virus.
NBA在一份声明中表示，该球员的检测结果是在11日晚犹他爵士队和俄克拉荷马雷霆队的比赛开始前获得的。
The NBA said in a statement that the player's test results were obtained before the Utah Jazz and Oklahoma City games began on Tuesday night.
当晚的比赛随即被取消。
The evening game was then cancelled.
据媒体报道，在周二爵士比赛的新闻发布会上，戈贝尔漠视疫情，主动弯腰触摸了面前记者的麦克风与录音设备。
At a Jazz news conference on Tuesday, Goebbels ignored the outbreak and reached out to touch the microphone and recording equipment in front of him, according to media reports.
如今由他引起的这场“风波”，也迅速蔓延至整个联盟，甚至是美国的职业赛场。
Now he caused the "storm", also spread quickly throughout the league, and even the United States of America's professional arena.
美国国会出现首例确诊病例据美国《国会山报》11日报道，美国民主党参议员玛丽亚·坎特韦尔当天晚上表示，她华盛顿特区议员办公室的一位员工的新冠病毒检测结果呈阳性。
Democratic Senator Maria Cantwell said that she was tested positive for the new crown virus by a member of her staff at the Washington DC legislature, the Capitol Hill newspaper reported Tuesday.
报道称，这是美国国会出现的首例确诊病例。
It is the first confirmed case in the U.S. Congress, the report said.
坎特维尔已经关闭了她的办公室，并已经要求所有与确诊员工有接触的人接受检测。
Canterville has closed her office and has asked anyone who comes into contact with a confirmed employee to be tested.
据称，确诊者在出现症状后接受隔离。
Those diagnosed were allegedly isolated after developing symptoms.
此前，国会内部开始讨论是否应暂时关闭国会大厦。
Earlier, discussions within Congress had begun on whether the Capitol should be temporarily closed.
不过，美国众议院议长南希·佩洛西表示，“议员不会逃离国会大厦”。
However, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said "lawmakers will not flee the Capitol."
佩洛西及其团队近期受到施压，要求采取措施避免在国会大厦爆发新冠肺炎疫情，国会中，三分之二的参议员年龄超过60岁，众议院议员的平均年龄约58岁。
Pelosi and her team recently came under pressure to take steps to prevent a new outbreak of pneumonia in the Capitol, where two-thirds of senators are over the age of 60 and the average age of House members is about 58.
令人担忧他们的身体状况。
Worried about their physical condition.
美国暂停未来30天所有欧洲旅行据外媒报道，当地时间11日晚，美国总统特朗普发表全国电视讲话，他阐述了政府应对新冠疫情的具体措施，包括限制欧洲来美旅行、提振经济等。
US President Donald Trump, in a nationally televised speech late Thursday, outlined specific government measures to tackle the new crown, including restricting European travel to the United States and boosting the economy, foreign media reported.
据报道，特朗普表示，受疫情影响，自13日起的30天内，将暂停“从欧洲到美国的所有旅行”，但英国除外。
Trump reportedly said the outbreak would suspend "all travel from Europe to the United States" for 30 days from 13 days, with the exception of the United Kingdom.
他表示，“具体情况将根据当地情况调整。
"The specific situation will be adjusted to local conditions," he said.
”特朗普还表示，各方应该把这当做一个展现团结和力量的时刻。
Trump has also said that it should be seen as a time of unity and strength.
“我们有共同的敌人，确切而言，也是世界的敌人——新型冠状病毒。
"We have a common enemy - indeed, the enemy of the world - the new coronavirus.
我们必须尽快、尽可能安全地击败它。
We must defeat it as quickly and safely as possible.
”他还表示，对他而言，没有什么比美国人民的生命和安全更重要的了。
"Nothing is more important to him than the lives and safety of the American people," he said.
华盛顿宣布进入紧急状态美东时间3月11日下午，因为新冠肺炎疫情不断加剧，美国首都华盛顿特区宣布进入紧急状态。
WASHINGTON, DC (Reuters) - Washington, DC, declared a state of emergency on Monday afternoon as the new crown pneumonia epidemic intensifies.
华盛顿特区卫生部门官员表示，该地区目前新冠肺炎确诊病例总数达到10例，且预计后续将出现更多确诊病例。
Health officials in Washington, D.C., say the region now has a total of 10 confirmed cases of pneumonia and expects more to follow.
华盛顿特区市长穆里尔·鲍泽表示，宣布进入紧急状态能够使首都地区利用更多资源来应对疫情，当地卫生部门也已经建议推迟或取消1000人以上的非必要大规模公共活动。
Mayor Muriel Bauser said the declaration of a state of emergency would allow the capital to use more resources to respond to the epidemic, and local health authorities have proposed postponing or canceling large-scale, non-essential public events of more than 1,000 people.
另据《华盛顿邮报》报道，弗吉尼亚大学、乔治城大学、霍华德大学、美国天主教大学等位于华盛顿及周边地区的高校也已经宣布，将开始暂停课堂教学，多数学校将转为网上授课。
The University of Virginia, Georgetown University, Howard University and Catholic University in Washington and surrounding areas have also announced that classroom teaching will be suspended and most schools will switch to online instruction, The Washington Post reported.
据美国有线电视新闻网统计，随着新冠疫情继续在美国蔓延，目前全美已有24个州和首都华盛顿特区宣布进入紧急状态。
As the new crown epidemic continues to spread in the United States, 24 states and the capital, Washington, D.C., have declared a state of emergency, according to CNN.
进入紧急状态便于各州紧急调动资源应对疫情。
The state of emergency has allowed states to mobilize resources urgently to respond to the epidemic.
当地时间11日，亚利桑那州、新墨西哥州、路易斯安那州、阿肯色州和华盛顿特区都发表声明，宣布进入紧急状态。
Arizona, New Mexico, Louisiana, Arkansas and Washington, D.C., all declared states of emergency on Tuesday.
此外，在美国众议院11日举行的听证会上，针对美国境内新冠病毒检测试剂严重不足情况，有议员提问：“目前美国一些被认为是死于流感的病例，是否实际上可能死于感染新冠病毒？”美疾控中心主任回应称，目前确实有原本被诊断为患流感、实际却是感染新冠病毒而死亡的情况。
"Are there cases in the United States that are thought to have died of influenza that could actually result from infection with the new crown virus?" the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said in response to a question from the House of Representatives on Tuesday about the acute shortage of reagents for testing the virus in the United States.
美股再度暴跌 道指进入技术性熊市新冠疫情造成的全球恐慌情绪持续蔓延，金融市场则继续上演“过山车”行情，“黑色星期一”之后周二大翻盘，周三却再遭重挫，美国股市更是“一夜蹦极”直接跌入技术性熊市。
U.S. stocks tumbled again as the global panic over the technical bear market spread, financial markets continued to roll on the roller-coaster ride, with Tuesday's big sell-off following Black Monday followed by another sharp drop Wednesday, and a one-night bungee jump into a technical bear market.
中外多家机构认为，美股长达11年的牛市或将终结。
Many institutions at home and abroad believe the 11-year bull market for U. S. chief may end.
周三（3月11日），美股低开低走，再遭重挫。
On Wednesday, March 11, U.S. stocks fell sharply as they moved lower and lower.
道指狂泻1464.94点，进入技术性熊市。
Dow diarrhea 1464.94 points into the technical bear market.
截至收盘，道指跌1464.94点，跌幅5.86%，报23553.22点；纳指跌392.20点，跌幅4.70%，报7952.05点；标普500指数跌140.85点，跌幅4.89%，报2741.38点。
The Dow was down 1464.94 points, or 5.86%, at 23553.22, the index was down 392.20 points, or 4.70%, at 7952.05, while the S & P 500 was down 140.85 points, or 4.89%, at 2741.38.
截至3月11日，2020年以来道指下跌了17.47%，与2月12日的最高点相比累计下跌20%，道指进入技术性熊市，美股为何还不见底？据美国媒体报道，股市当天的表现说明投资者认为美国政府没有采取足够措施应对新冠肺炎疫情带来的影响，不论是疫情本身还是疫情对经济的冲击。
As of March 11, the Dow had fallen 17.47% since 2020, down 20% from its peak on Feb. 12, and why U.S. stocks haven't bottomed out as the Dow moved into a technical bearish market, U.S. media reports said, suggesting investors didn't think the U.S. government was doing enough to address the effects of the outbreak, either on its own or on the economy.
分析人士称，现在无法预测新冠肺炎疫情的持续时间、扩散范围，由此产生的不确定性将持续给金融市场带来动荡。
Analysts say uncertainty about the duration and spread of the outbreak will continue to destabilize financial markets.
综合央视新闻、中国新闻网、环球时报、参考消息、澎湃新闻推荐阅读点击大图|病毒退去后，疾控体系该如何补漏？点击大图|确诊破10000例！死亡631例...意大利为何死亡率这么高？。
Consolidated CCTV News, China News Network, Global Times, Reference News, Pensive News Referral ReportsHow should the disease control system fill in the leak when the virus is gone? Click Great Image & # 144; # 124; Identify 10,000 cases! 631... Why is the death rate so high in Italy?
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
汤姆·汉克斯夫妇确诊！NBA停赛！美国国会出现首例确诊病例......。
Tom and Mrs. Hanks are diagnosed! NBA suspension! The first confirmed case in the United States Congress...
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "中国经营报";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "汤姆·汉克斯夫妇确诊！NBA停赛！美国国会出现首例确诊病例......";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Tom and Mrs. Hanks diagnosed! NBA suspension! America's first confirmed case... & quot;;;
var msg_desc = "中国经营报 chinabusinessjournal";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Chinabusinessjournal & quot;;; China Business Newspaper.
title: '病毒退去后，疾控体系该如何补漏？',。
How did the disease control system cover up when the virus retired?
subject_name: '中国经营报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '确诊破10000例！死亡631例...意大利为何死亡率这么高？',。
A: At least 10,000 deaths! 631... Why did Italy have such a high mortality rate?
subject_name: '中国经营报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="中国经营报";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
