NBA战疫进入生死时刻 8小时紧急状态连升三级。
NBA Battle Enters Life and Death Moment Eight Hour Emergency Level 3.
NBA战疫进入生死时刻 8小时紧急状态连升三级。
NBA Battle Enters Life and Death Moment Eight Hour Emergency Level 3.
腾讯体育                      。
Tencent Sports.
腾讯体育。
Tencent Sports.
腾讯网体育频道官方账号。
QQ Sports Channel official account number.
The following article comes from 腾讯NBA。
The following article comes from Tencent NBA.
Author 嘟嘟。
Author Doodle.
腾讯NBA。
Tencent NBA.
提供NBA赛况、球星动态、直播预告、视频、数据、图片、专题、花絮、装备等各类海量信息。
Provide NBA games, star dynamics, live preview, video, data, pictures, projects, catkins, equipment and other large-scale information.
。
.
八个小时，NBA疫情连升三级，从一开始的空场时代，到随后因为爵士球员患病，爵士与雷霆的比赛延期，再到NBA发布宣告，2019-20赛季暂时停摆。
Eight hours, the NBA went up three notches, from the beginning of the empty season, until the Jazz's game with Thunder was postponed because of the Jazz's illness, to the NBA announcement that the 2019-20 season would be suspended.
受新型冠状病毒疫情的影响，旧金山市宣布在至少两周内禁止1000人以上的聚集性活动。
Affected by the new coronavirus outbreak, the city of San Francisco announced a ban on sexual activity of more than 1,000 people for at least two weeks.
金州勇士首当其冲，北京时间3月13日主场与篮网队的比赛，不能对球迷开放。
Golden State Warriors first, Beijing time March 13 home game with the Nets, can not be opened to fans.
接下来更糟糕的事情发生了，爵士客场与雷霆的比赛之前，双方球员、教练、裁判退场。
The next worse thing happened, before the Jazz's away game against the Thunder, players, coaches and referees left.
据雷霆播报员透露，因为赛前有包括鲁迪-戈贝尔在内的球员生病，本场比赛已经正式延期。
According to Thunder announcer, the game has been officially postponed due to pre-match illness of players including Rudy Goebbels.
但这不是终点，戈贝尔被确诊患上新冠病毒，NBA发布宣告，赛季停摆。
But it wasn't the end. Goebbels was diagnosed with the new Crown virus, the NBA announced a season stoppage.
八个小时，NBA天翻地覆。
Eight hours, the NBA is turning upside down.
很长时间将无法看到库里与球迷击掌NBA如何走到这一步的？其实随着新冠肺炎疫情在世界范围的蔓延，推迟体育比赛和空场比赛早就成为了世界范围的大趋势。
It will be a long time since Curry and fans clapped their hands on how the NBA got there.In fact, with the worldwide spread of the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic, the postponement of sporting events and empty play has long been a worldwide trend.
为了避免出现大范围感染，NBA自然也不能独善其身。
In order to avoid widespread infection, the NBA is not immune.
NBA最早对新冠疫情的反应出现在3月1日，当时在与卫生官员进行沟通过后，NBA发表了一份声明，表示会监督疫情最新变化：“我们的雇员、球队、球员以及球迷的健康安全至高无上，我们会和球队通力合作，咨询CDC和传染病专家，密切跟踪情况变化。
The NBA's earliest reaction to the outbreak came on March 1, when, after communicating with health officials, the NBA issued a statement saying it would monitor the latest changes: "The health and safety of our employees, teams, players and fans is paramount.
”3月3日，NBA又向各队发送了一份备忘录，提出一系列临时建议，包括：提醒在新冠肺炎疫情期，球员应该用“碰拳”取代“击掌”来和球迷打招呼，避免接触球迷的笔、球和球衣签名。
On March 3, the NBA sent another memo to the teams with a series of interim recommendations, including a reminder that during the New Crown Pneumonia season, players should replace "clapping" with "clapping" to greet fans and avoid touching their pens, balls and jerseys.
而且随着NBA官方对疫情的关注，联合试训、现场试训、国际球探考察等活动也将缩小范围，甚至取消。
And with the NBA official attention to the epidemic, joint trial training, on-site trial training, international scouting, and other activities will be reduced in scope or even cancelled.
3月7日，NBA再次向各队发送备忘录，第一次提到了“空场比赛”的可能性，即：各队要准备好在必要情况下，清空球馆，在没有球迷的情况下比赛，并做好到场的必要工作人员的登记工作。
On March 7, the NBA sent another memo to the teams, referring for the first time to the possibility of an "empty field game," in which teams were prepared to empty the stadium if necessary, play without fans and register the necessary staff to be present.
3月8日，有报道称，NBA开始讨论限制进入球队更衣室的人员，只对球员和球队员工开放，媒体采访则改用其它形式，以此保护所有人减少传染风险。
On March 8, it was reported that the NBA was beginning to discuss restricting access to its locker rooms to players and team members only, while media coverage had shifted to other formats to protect everyone from the risk of infection.
NBA发言人迈克-巴斯当时在一份声明中表示：“在咨询过传染病和公共卫生专家后，我们正在和其它体育联盟协商相关方案，以保护球馆内每一个人的健康，包括我们的更衣室。
"After consulting infectious disease and public health experts, we are negotiating with other sports leagues to protect everyone's health, including our changing rooms," NBA spokesman Mike Buss said in a statement.
”3月10日，NBA等四大职业体育联盟正式宣布，限制媒体进入更衣室。
On March 10, the NBA and other major sports leagues officially announced restrictions on media access to the locker room.
同时有报道称，联盟还会在当地时间本周三召集各队老板进行电话会议，讨论接下来的应急预案。
There were also reports that the league would convene a conference call with the bosses on Wednesday, local time, to discuss contingency plans.
NBA联合三大联赛发文3月12日凌晨2点，旧金山市宣布在至少两周内禁止1000人以上的聚集性活动，3月13日金州勇士主场与篮网队的比赛空场。
San Francisco Jr. - At 2 a.m. March 12, San Francisco announced a ban of more than 1,000 people for at least two weeks, March 13 Golden State Warriors home game against the Nets.
3月12日早8点，雷霆主场与爵士的比赛，因爵士有球员患病，双方球员、教练和裁判退场，比赛延期。
March 12 8: 00 a.m. Thunder's home game with the Jazz, because the Jazz players sick, players, coaches and referees on both sides of the game, the game was postponed.
3月12日早9点30，爵士中锋戈贝尔确诊患上新冠病毒。
At 9: 30 am on March 12, Sir Robert Goebbels was diagnosed with the new crown virus.
3月12日早9点35，NBA正式宣布，2019-20赛季暂时停摆。
March 12 early 9: 35, the NBA officially announced the 2019-20 season suspension.
NBA并不孤单，事实上，世界范围的多项体育赛事，都因为新冠肺炎疫情而进行了调整。
The NBA is not alone. In fact, many sporting events around the world have been adjusted for the new crown pneumonia epidemic.
西班牙足球联赛方面表示，西甲和西乙至少有两周将在没有球迷的情况下进行。
The Spanish league said Spanish champions Spain and West Band would play without fans for at least two weeks.
法国足球联赛方面表示，在4月15日前，法甲和法乙的比赛将在空场的环境下进行。
The French Football League said before April 15, France and B will play in an empty environment.
宣布类似举措的还有葡萄牙足球联赛。
Similar initiatives were announced by the Portuguese Football League.
意大利足球联赛本周早些时候表示，包括意甲联赛和奥运会预选赛在内的所有体育赛事将暂停至4月3日，而意大利滑雪队也决定不派选手去斯洛文尼亚参加本赛季最后一站世界杯的赛事。
Italy's soccer league said earlier this week that all sporting events, including Serie A and Olympic qualifiers, would be suspended until April 3, and the Italian team decided not to send players to Slovenia for the final round of the season.
包括印第安维尔斯大师赛网球大师赛，MotoGP美洲大奖赛，欧洲冠军联赛在内的多个体育赛事，都选择了延迟开赛、取消或者空场比赛，以预防新冠肺炎疫情的蔓延。
Many sporting events, including the Masters tennis tournament of Indian Wells, the MotoGP American Grand Prix and the European Champions League, have opted for late starts, cancellations or open matches to prevent the spread of the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic.
为何不提前进行停摆？其实从新冠肺炎疫情在世界各地和美国开始蔓延到现在已经有相当长一段时间了，为什么NBA一直要到北京时间3月12才宣布停摆？首先，不管是空场比赛，还是停摆，那么对于NBA来说将是一个巨大的经济损失。
It's been quite a while since the outbreak of SARS started to spread around the world and in the U.S. Why didn't the NBA announce a halt until March 12, BeijingFirst, whether it was an empty game or a stoppage, it would be a huge economic loss for the NBA.
据《福布斯》公布的数据，NBA在2018-19赛季总收入达到88亿美元，比赛门票收入占比为22%，也就是19.4亿美元，30支球队的平均门票收入是6467万美元，再平均到41个主场比赛，每场球是158万美元。
According to Forbes, the NBA earned $8.8 billion in 2018-19, ticket sales were 22 percent, or $1.94 billion, while 30 teams averaged $64.67 million and 41 home games, or $1.58 million a game, according to Forbes.
当然，具体到每支球队的实际票房收入，由于球队实力和所处城市的不同，有着明显的“贫富差异”，勇士是2018-19赛季场均门票收入最高的球队，达到340万美元，像背靠纽约大市场的尼克斯，2018-19赛季场均门票收入为290万美元，而处于联盟经济版图小市场的灰熊，场均门票收入实际上不到100万美元。
With an average ticket income of $3.4 million for the 2018-19 season, Warriors will be the team with the highest ticket income in 2018-19, with an average of $2.9 million in 2018-19, while grizzly bears in the small league market will actually earn less than $1 million.
空场比赛给每支球队带来的门票损失是有差别的，但平均下来空一场有超过150万美元的收入流失。
The cost of a free field game varies from team to team, but there is an average loss of more than $1. 5 million.
虽然空场比赛就不需要检票员、引座员和饮料食品销售员，可以减轻人工成本，但与门票收入的经济大蛋糕相比，这部分成本的降低意义并不大。
While the absence of ticket inspectors, ushers and beverage salesmen in an empty race can reduce labor costs, they are less significant than the big economy cake of ticket revenues.
仍然有一部分美国人不注意保护自己其次，无论停摆还是空场，对于很多NBA球员来说难以接受。
There are still some Americans who don't take care to protect themselves. Second, it's hard for many NBA players to accept it, whether it's a stop or an empty field.
比如勒布朗-詹姆斯在最早风传可能空场比赛时候就立即发生，表示：“我是不会打的，我们的比赛就应该在看台上有球迷，我为他们打球，这才有意义。
LeBron James, for example, said immediately after the earliest rumors of a possible empty court match: "I'm not going to play, we should have fans in the stands and I play for them, and that makes sense.
”但是很显然，新冠肺炎疫情的发展超过了很多人的预期，詹姆斯热爱自己的球迷，但是他也要为自己和球迷的健康着想。
But it is clear that the outbreak has progressed beyond many people's expectations, with James loving his fans but also looking after his own health and that of the fans.
很快，詹姆斯就改变了口风：“我当时真的不知道这是一场有关新冠肺炎病毒预防的措施。
Soon, James changed his tune: "I didn't really know it was a prophylaxis for the New Crown Pneumonia virus.
虽然我会对空场比赛感到失望，但与此同时，你必须倾听专业人士的意见。
While I will be disappointed with the empty field, at the same time you have to listen to the professionals.
如果他们都觉得这样做对球员的安全、球队的安全、联盟的安全是最好的，那么我们都会听的。
If they all think it's best for the safety of the players, the safety of the team, the safety of the league, then we'll all listen.
”这不是一般的球员，这是勒布朗-詹姆斯，他的态度，几乎可以代表所有球员的意见。
"This is not just another player, this is LeBron James and his attitude is almost representative of all the players.
所以，虽然空场比赛在球员面前遭到了不少的阻力，但是很显然，这种阻力现在正在越来越小。
So, while there is a lot of resistance in front of the players, it is clear that the resistance is now getting smaller.
随后我们要说的，是NBA在推迟比赛和空场比赛之间的选择。
Then we're going to talk about the NBA's choice between postponing a game and playing an empty game.
由于NBA与ESPN和TNT达成了为期9年总价240亿美元的转播合约（从2016-17赛季开始执行），平均每年26.7亿美元，占NBA年收入的30%。
With NBA contracts with ESPN and TNT worth a total of $24 billion over nine years (starting with the 2016-17 season), the NBA is averaging $2.67 billion a year, or 30% of NBA revenue.
这意味着NBA的比赛只要打，就会产生巨大的收视红利，而如果取消，NBA将蒙受比门票收入为零更大的经济损失。
That means the NBA will have a big TV dividend from playing as long as it plays, and if it does, the NBA will suffer more than zero ticket revenue.
尽管疫情可以归结到不可抗拒力范畴，但NBA与转播商的合同很复杂，不可能轻而易举地避开责任。
Although the epidemic can be ascribed to force majeure, NBA contracts with broadcasters are complex and cannot easily evade responsibility.
“这其中有很多环节，一旦NBA取消比赛，会产生一系列的连锁反应。
"There's a lot of it, and once the NBA cancels, there's a chain reaction.
”南加州大学体育商业副教授大卫-卡特说。
David Carter, associate professor of sports and business at the University of Southern California.
NBA并不想进行空场比赛，但是两害取其轻，和延迟/取消比赛相比，空场比赛已经是一个最好的选择了。
The NBA doesn't want to play an empty game, but the harm is minor and the empty game is a better option than a delay / cancellation.
最后，让NBA不得不这么快空场的，是来自政府层面的施压。
In the end, it was the pressure from the government that made the NBA have to play so fast.
克里夫兰骑士所在的俄亥俄州的州长迈克-德文表示，他将颁布大规模聚会的禁令，禁止球迷前往球馆观看比赛。
Mike Devon, governor of Ohio where Cleveland knights are based, said he would ban fans from going to the stadium to watch the game by issuing a ban on mass parties.
华盛顿州州长杰伊·因斯利则表示，根据疾病传播的估计，该州正在为可能出现的数万例新冠肺炎病例做准备。
Jay Insley, Washington's governor, said the state was preparing for tens of thousands of possible new cases of pneumonia based on estimates of the spread of the disease.
也就是说，这很有可能影响华盛顿州未来的各项体育赛事。
In other words, it is likely to affect all of Washington's future sporting events.
在加州，政府部门已经下达通知，宣布在至少两周内禁止1000人以上的聚集性活动。
In California, authorities have issued a notice banning more than 1,000 people from gathering for at least two weeks.
戈贝尔的确诊，是压倒NBA的最后一根稻草，他们已经别无选择。
Goebbels diagnosis is the last straw that overwhelms the NBA, and they have no choice.
停摆了，球员到底咋想？勇士与篮网的比赛将空场进行在这之前，球员曾经对空场比赛颇有怨言，因为他们并不了解疫情有多可怕。
What do the players think? The Warrior versus the Nets game is going to be empty. Before that, players had complained about the game because they didn't know how terrible it was.
很明显，空场比赛这种从来没有出现过的事情，必然会有人持反对意见。
Obviously, something that has never happened before, such as an empty field game, is bound to be opposed.
毕竟，体育比赛的主场优势是一个巨大的优势，而没有了观众的支持，主场几乎毫无意义。
After all, the home-court advantage of sporting events is a huge advantage, and without the support of the crowd, home games are almost meaningless.
开拓者球星利拉德就表示：“与其去没有球迷到场的球馆打比赛，我们还不如穿着训练服在训练馆打球。
Blazers star Lillard said: "Instead of going to a stadium where no fans are present, we might as well play in a training suit.
如果比赛不能卖票，那是什么意思？你会打开电视看一场无球迷入场观战的比赛吗？”本赛季从迈阿密热火加盟费城76人的约什-理查德森说：“那样处理比赛和我们打野球就没什么不同了，我们干脆自己吹罚比赛吧。
"If you can't sell tickets, what does that mean? Would you turn on the TV and watch a game without fans?" Josh Richardson, of 76 from Miami Heat this season, said: "That would make no difference to the way we play the game.
”而NBA名人堂球员，如今已经是解说员的查尔斯-巴克利，以及马刺后卫德里克-怀特，也都表达了自己的反对意见。
The NBA Hall of Fame players, now commentator Charles Buckley, and Spurs defender Derek White have also voiced their objections.
不过值得一提的是，最早站出来发表发对意见的詹姆斯，如今已经改口。
It is worth noting, however, that James, who was the first to speak out against it, has now changed his tune.
詹姆斯称：“你必须倾听专业人士的意见。
"You have to listen to professionals," James says.
如果他们都觉得这样做对球员的安全、球队的安全、联盟的安全是最好的，那么我们都会听的。
If they all think it's best for the safety of the players, the safety of the team, the safety of the league, then we'll all listen.
”公牛球星拉文的意见和詹皇差不多，他说：“我们的联盟和球迷密切相连，但我们害怕新冠病毒。
Bulls star David Lavin, who was close to the emperor, said: "Our league is closely linked to the fans, but we are afraid of the New Crown virus.
”来自意大利的球星加里纳利由于祖国遭遇了严重的新冠肺炎疫情，因此他也是支持NBA空场决定的球员之一：“我一直向队友们讲述意大利的疫情状况，希望他们能够对这次的疫情重视起来。
Italy star Gary Neri is also one of the players who supported the NBA's decision because his country suffered a serious outbreak of pneumonia: "I have been talking to my teammates about the situation in Italy and I hope they will take the outbreak seriously.
我完全支持联盟的应对方法，这不仅仅是为了保护球员，也是为了保护球迷和相关工作人员，对大家都有好处。
I fully support the league's approach, not only to protect the players, but also to protect the fans and their staff, which is in everyone's interest.
我当然不希望比赛取消或者空场，但在目前的情况下，我支持无球迷到场进行比赛，因为目前最重要的是做好防护。
I certainly don't want the game to be cancelled or empty, but in the current situation, I would support not having any fans present, because the most important thing is to protect.
”但现在他们不得不，或者心甘情愿接受停摆的决定了。
But now they have to, or willingly accept, the decision to stop.
戈贝尔的确诊，对所有球员来说都是一个打击，这是离他们最近也最鲜活的例子——一天之前，戈贝尔还因为调侃联盟抗击疫情的政策，故意用手去摸麦克风，现在，他被确诊患上新冠病毒，真可谓害人害己。
Goebbels diagnosis was a blow to all players, the most recent and vivid example of how, a day earlier, Goebbels had deliberately touched the microphone with his hand in mockery of the alliance's policy against the epidemic, and now he had been diagnosed with the new crown virus.
没有NBA球员愿意当第二个戈贝尔，也希望所有人能从戈贝尔那边吸取教训。
No NBA player wants to be the second Goebbels, and everyone wants to learn from Goebbels.
扫描下方二维码，了解更多体育资讯。
Scan the bottom two-dimensional code for more information about sports.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
NBA战疫进入生死时刻 8小时紧急状态连升三级。
NBA Battle Enters Life and Death Moment Eight Hour Emergency Level 3.
火箭新冠疫情情况 戈贝尔确诊新冠 联盟无限停赛 CBA要求外援回国惹争议                                        火箭新冠疫情情况 戈贝尔确诊新冠 联盟无限停赛 CBA要求外援回国惹争议                          ...                                                休斯顿火箭资讯                    不喜欢        不看的原因 OK     内容质量低 不看此公众号 对不感兴趣                           新冠让NBA停赛！19队数百位球员或遭隔离，戈贝尔给世人敲响警钟                                        新冠让NBA停赛！19队数百位球员或遭隔离，戈贝尔给世人敲响警钟                          ...                                                篮球球迷之家                    不喜欢        不看的原因 OK     内容质量低 不看此公众号 对不感兴趣                           戈贝尔确诊之后，NBA或许会有更多人感染                                        戈贝尔确诊之后，NBA或许会有更多人感染                          ...                                                竞彩篮球新收获                    不喜欢        不看的原因 OK     内容质量低 不看此公众号 对不感兴趣         。
Goebbels Confirmation of the New Crown Alliance Unlimited Suspension CBA Request for Foreign Aid Arguing Rockets New Crown Colony Unlimited Suspension of Competition CBA Asking for Foreign Aid Return to Engage in Controversial Rockets
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "腾讯体育";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "NBA战疫进入生死时刻 8小时紧急状态连升三级";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; eight-hour emergency;
var msg_desc = "没有人愿意当第二个戈贝尔，也希望所有人能从戈贝尔那边吸取教训。
var msg _ desc = & quot; no one wants to be a second Goebbels, and everyone should learn from Goebbels.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="腾讯体育";。
Var title = & quot; Tencent & quot; & quot; & quot;
