一夜之间NBA停摆，足坛陷入恐慌！疫情面前“傲慢”是多么可怕。
The NBA stopped overnight and the football world was in a panic! How terrifying "arrogance" is in the face of the epidemic.
话边。
Speak now.
腾讯体育                      。
Tencent Sports.
腾讯体育。
Tencent Sports.
腾讯网体育频道官方账号。
QQ Sports Channel official account number.
戈贝尔确诊前曾在发布会摸遍话筒，被网友吐槽：用自己的无知和傲慢，关闭了整个NBA；C罗队友确诊后足坛陷入恐慌，而在更早前，意大利人对疫情的漠视态度已激怒国际米兰俱乐部的主席张康阳；郑州男子因一己之私，跑去意大利看球染病毒，导致“一人祸害一城”……也许我们该明白，弱小和无知不是生存的障碍，傲慢才是。
Before his diagnosis, Goebbels had touched the microphone at a news conference and was groomed by netizens: he shut down the NBA with his ignorance and arrogance; Italians' indifference to the disease had angered Milan club President Zhang Kang-yang; Zhengzhou men had gone to Italy to see the virus.
我们可以不害怕病毒，但起码应该心怀“敬畏”。
We may not be afraid of the virus, but at least we should be "in awe."
Play3月12日凌晨，两场紧张刺激的欧洲冠军杯足球赛在疫情阴影中如期举行，在比赛还没有分出胜负的时候，一则比赛事结果更为震惊的新闻推送瞬间炸翻了全世界——C罗队友鲁加尼确认感染新冠肺炎如果仅仅是这一则标题，并不能让你明白事情的严重性，那么我们来看下面这张照片。
PlayIn the early morning hours of March 12, two tense European Champions League football matches were held in the shadow of the epidemic. Before the match could be won or lost, an even more shocking news story exploded around the world.Ronaldinho teammate Ronaldinho confirmed that a single title alone would not make you realize the seriousness of the situation.
这张充满欢庆气氛的照片拍摄于3天之前，在意大利国家德比赛后，尤文全队在更衣室里庆祝战胜了强敌国际米兰。
The jubilant photo was taken three days ago after the Italian national team celebrated the victory over their arch-rival Inter Milan in the dressing room.
照片里被圈起来的选手就是鲁加尼，虽然他并没有在比赛里出场，但毫无疑问，从照片上看，他与尤文图斯的全体队员，绝对处于一个新冠病毒传播的理想范围……而照片的左下角，正是C罗。
The player encircled in the photo is Rugani, who did not appear in the game, but there is no doubt that he and the rest of Juventus are in an ideal range for the spread of the new crown virus... and the bottom left-hand corner of the picture is C-Luo.
考虑到新冠病毒的潜伏时间，C罗甚至都有可能成为潜在的感染者和传播者——而在十天前，他在伯纳乌出席了皇马与巴塞罗那的西班牙国家德比，并在中场休息时进入了皇马的更衣室鼓励前队友。
Given the latency of the new crown virus, Ronaldinho could even become a potential infector and disseminator - 10 days after attending Real Madrid and Barcelona's Spain derby in Bernabeu and joining Real Madrid's dressing room at halftime to encourage former team-mates.
本该是励志而温情的画面，现在看起来，是不是已经有点不寒而栗的味道？准备充分？意大利的防疫底线被“傲慢”击穿众所周知的是，意大利北部的伦巴第大区，如今已成为继武汉后，全世界最为严重的新冠病毒疫区。
Originally intended as a motivational and sentimental picture, does it look a little chilly now? Ready? Italy's epidemic prevention line has been "hubris". It is well known that the Lombardy region in northern Italy is now the world's worst new crown virus after Wuhan.
今天凌晨，意大利卫生防疫部门公布的数字里，确诊新冠病毒的人数来到了12462例，比昨天增加了2300例，而单日死亡人数也达到了196之多。
Early this morning, figures released by Italy's anti-epidemic agency put the number of people diagnosed with the new strain at 12,462, up 2,300 from yesterday and 196 a day.
在已知的确认感染者里，有参议院的众议员、有医疗部长、也有陆军司令部参谋长，病毒面前，人人平等，从这个角度来说，职业球员的确诊并不令人意外。
The diagnosis should come as no surprise, given that the confirmed infected persons include the members of the Senate, the Minister of Health and the Chief of Staff of the Army Command, who are all equal in the face of the virus.
事实上，意大利是欧洲国家里最先对新冠病毒产生警惕和防卫的——在中国爆发疫情没多久，意大利就宣布中断了与中国的海空航线，并且对外来旅客实行隔离和筛查，各地医院也在有准备地清空病床，制订预案，但最终疫情仍在意大利失控了，为何？疲惫的意大利医生在抢救病人因为意大利人自以为做好的预案和准备，在面对来势汹汹的疫情，远远不足够。
Indeed, Italy was one of the first European countries to be vigilant and defensive about the new crown virus - Italy announced that it had cut off air and sea routes with China shortly after the outbreak, and isolated and screened foreign tourists, and hospitals were preparing to empty beds and prepare plans.
上个月的月底，意大利米兰萨科医院临床生物学、病毒学专家主任玛莉亚·瑞塔·吉斯蒙多（Maria Rita Gismondo），在接受媒体采访时声称，新冠病毒仅仅只是一个比流感稍微强一点的病毒，之所以对中国造成了巨大困扰，是因为中国落后而且不卫生，受过良好教育并拥有良好卫生习惯的意大利人，根本不用为此恐慌。
At the end of last month, Maria Rita Gismondo, director of clinical biology and virology at Mirasaco Hospital in Italy, claimed in a media interview that the new crown virus was only a slightly stronger virus than the flu, and that China was plagued by backward and unsanitary Italians with good education and good hygiene practices.
吉斯蒙多认为意大利的防疫准备是“反应过度”吉斯蒙多的看法代表了相当大部分意大利人的看法，尽管在之后疫情发展的迅猛已经超乎了意大利人的想象，封锁城市乃至封锁全国的政令之下，他们固有的傲慢和偏见，让许多防疫措施根本无法执行到位。
Gisimundo's view of Italy's preparedness as "overreacting" Gismondo represents the view of a large part of the Italian population, though the epidemic has since spread beyond the imagination of Italians, whose inherent arrogance and prejudice in blockading cities and even blockading the country have rendered many preventive measures impossible to implement.
在见识过新冠病毒的可怕之后，国际米兰俱乐部的主席、苏宁少东家张康阳也被意大利人如此散漫和漠视的态度所激怒，在接受记者采访时发出严厉的警告，不管比赛多重要，公众健康安全首先摆在第一位，并指责意甲主席皮尔达诺罔顾球员健康——结果意甲各俱乐部上下完全不当一回事，支持张康阳者寥寥。
After seeing the horror of the new crown virus, Milan club president Zhang Kang-yang, head of the Soongning club, was outraged by the Italians' lavish and indifferent attitude, giving a stern warning in an interview that public health and safety, no matter how important the game, were first and foremost and accusing Italian President Andrea Pirdano of ignoring players' health.
而现在，鲁加尼的确诊，就像一记冷冷的耳光。
Now, Rugani's diagnosis is like a cold slap in the face.
张康阳炮轰意甲主席不顾公众的健康和安全既然意大利大众普遍看法如此，又怎么能指望他们对病毒做好充分的警惕和足够的防备呢？在宣布封锁米兰之后，大街上依然能够看到不戴口罩的意大利市民出行，博物馆和酒吧照常开放，列车也正常通行……终于，在这两三天里，意大利北方人口最密集、经济最发达的伦巴第大区疫情彻底被引爆，局势急转直下，甚至可以说得上是积重难返。
How could he expect Italian citizens to be fully alert and prepared for the virus after the announcement of the Milan blockade, when museums and bars were open and trains were running normally... Finally, for two or three days, the most densely populated and economically developed region of northern Italy, the Lombardy, suffered a sharp turn of events.
欧洲足球集体停摆？百年难得一见意大利的疫情对整个欧洲来说仅仅只是一个开始。
A century of collective stoppage in European football? The outbreak in Italy is only the beginning for the whole of Europe.
因为欧洲国家关系相对比较紧密，所以欧洲人口的跨国流动也相当频繁。
Because Europe is relatively close to each other, the movement of people across borders is also fairly frequent.
在意大利的人口流动辐射下，德国、法国和西班牙的疫情也来到了十分危险的关口——三个国家的确诊人数都已经超过了1500人，如果防控不利，随时都有可能变成下一个意大利。
As a result of population movements in Italy, outbreaks in Germany, France, and Spain have reached a dangerous threshold - more than 1,500 people have been diagnosed in all three countries, and could become the next Italy if not controlled.
但即便是如此危险的局势下，欧洲冠军杯1/8决赛依然照常举行。
But even in such a dangerous situation, the Champions League quarter-final is still going on as usual.
在英国利物浦，有3000名客队球迷随着马德里竞技远征英伦，在看台上为主队摇旗呐喊足足两个小时；在法国巴黎，虽然政府当局决定空场比赛，但痴心的巴黎球迷们依然聚集在球场外，为主队加油。
In Liverpool, England, 3,000 visiting fans cheered for two hours in the stands as Atletico Madrid marched to England, and fans gathered outside the stadium to cheer for the home team, despite the authorities' decision to play in an empty stadium.
巴黎球迷制造的“法式空场”意大利已经为自己的傲慢付出了难以想象的沉痛代价，法国、西班牙和英国，又将如何？物伤其类，刚刚遭受到新冠病毒重创的我们，看到这样的新闻，并不能感到“果然如此”的快意，反而愈发痛心疾首。
What about France, Spain, and the United Kingdom? Seeing news of the "empty French stadium" made by Paris fans has cost France, Spain, and Britain an unimaginable price for their arrogance.
在对抗新冠病毒的战疫斗争里，中国人民用血泪换来的教训，本该让全世界警醒，但因为意识领域的斗争与长期固有的偏见，曾经我们所走过的崎岖山路，如今还要眼看着他人在一声声警示当中再走一遍，心中又怎会好受？意甲联赛已被迫停摆，法甲和西甲目前也正在紧急商议中，许多比赛被迫空场举行，德甲和英超虽然看上去不为所动，但也已经展开了是否就此结束本赛季的讨论。
In the fight against the New Crown Virus, the Chinese people's tearful lessons should have alerted the world, but how can it be better to see the rugged mountain road we have travelled now, with the Serie A and Spain now in urgent discussions, many of which have been forced to leave the season unattended, despite seeming implacable.
但先是英冠诺丁汉森林队的希腊籍老板马拉纳基斯宣布确诊，昨天德乙汉诺威队的后卫许伯斯也确认染上新冠肺炎，再之后就是鲁加尼……或许唯一值得安慰的是，作为C罗的队友，鲁加尼的确诊足以称得上是重磅新闻，所造成的舆论压力，很可能成为压垮欧洲各国足联的最后一根稻草。
But Maranakis, the Greek owner of England's Nottingham Forest, confirmed the diagnosis yesterday, followed by Lugani... and perhaps the only consolation is that, as Ronaldinho's team-mates, Rughani's diagnosis is a weight to the press that could be the last straw to crush UEFA.
整个欧洲足球联赛很有可能进入漫长的停摆期，这个赛季的联赛、欧冠，甚至之后的欧洲杯，都有可能受到巨大的冲击。
The whole European league is likely to be in a long lull and this season's league, the Champions League and even the European Championship are likely to be hit hard.
NBA名将确诊导致联盟停摆，美国疫情风险转高这个初春的早上，疫情给人们所带来的“惊讶”还不仅于此：与欧洲的足球小将鲁加尼同时传来确诊消息的，还有美国NBA的名将戈贝尔。
The NBA's diagnosis brought the league to a halt, and the risk of an outbreak of the disease in the early spring morning was more than that: confirmation came from Rugani, a European footballer, as well as from the NBA himself.
在今晨出现疑似症状之后，爵士队的戈贝尔入院检查，并确诊新冠病毒——这一爆炸性新闻，直接终结了NBA联盟是空场比赛还是停摆的争论——不久之后，NBA官方宣布，本赛季比赛将无限暂停，何时复赛将另行通知。
After a suspected symptom this morning, Jazz's Goebbels was admitted to the hospital and confirmed the new crown virus - an explosive news that put an end to the debate over whether the NBA is an empty game or a stoppage - soon after NBA officials announced that the season would be suspended indefinitely until further notice.
而在3天前的新闻发布会结束之后，记者记录下惊人一幕：面带笑容戈贝尔走上讲台，故意将包括话筒在内的所有设备摸了个遍。
After a news conference three days ago, reporters recorded a startling scene in which Gobelle walked up to the stage with a smile on his face and deliberately fumbled all the equipment, including the microphone.
在当时，他已经结束了所有发言。
At that time, he had already concluded all his statements.
戈贝尔在无保护的情况下摸遍了所有采访设备目前，我们尚未得知戈贝尔做出此种行为的动机，也不能据此判断戈贝尔是因此而感染的新冠病毒，但毫无疑问的是，在美国疫情如今愈演愈烈的大环境下，戈贝尔的行为是极为愚蠢而且不理智的，既缺乏对生命的敬畏，也没有对自己健康的尊重。
Goebbels unguarded search of all the interview equipment, we do not know the motive for Goebbels behavior, nor can we judge that Goebbels was infected with the new crown virus, but there is no doubt that, in today's increasingly violent environment in the United States, Goebbels behavior is extremely foolish and irrational, lacking in reverence for life and his own health.
对于一名运动员来说，感染新冠病毒有不小的概率会导致心肺功能受损，从而影响自己的运动寿命，这无疑是一种不幸。
For an athlete, the probability that a new crown virus will cause damage to the heart and lungs, and thus to exercise life, is unfortunate.
而作为上个赛季最佳防守球员的获得者，戈贝尔对于爵士的重要性毋庸置疑，爵士每年也会为他付出超过2500万美元的薪水。
As the best defender of last season, Goebbels importance to the Jazz, who also paid him more than $25 million a year.
随着戈贝尔的确诊，这一切很有可能都将会成为昨日黄花，而这正是他为自己傲慢所付出的沉痛代价——而他甚至未必会是NBA唯一被感染的球员。
With Goebbels diagnosis, all of this is likely to be yesterday's yellow flower, and that is the painful price he paid for his pride - and he may not even be the NBA's only infected player.
在今天的美国，戈贝尔并不是那个知名度最高的确诊患者——曾经饰演阿甘的好莱坞著名影帝汤姆·汉克斯与他的妻子，在个人的社交媒体上宣布双双确诊。
In the United States today, Goebbels is not the most well-known confirmed sufferer - Tom Hanks, a famous Hollywood film star who played Forrest Gump, and his wife, announced the diagnosis on their personal social media.
这不仅再次说明了新冠病毒无视贫富贵贱，对待所有人一视同仁，更是引爆了美国社交网络对于目前美国疫情传播状况的担忧和猜测。
This not only shows that the new crown virus ignored the rich and poor, treated everyone equally, but also triggered the U. S. social network on the current spread of the epidemic and speculation.
“阿甘”宣布自己确诊新冠病毒郑州“毒王”因去意大利看球染病毒目前，虽然国内疫情在全国人民的不懈努力下逐渐有了平息态势，但国际上的疫情却方兴未艾，我们依然远远没有能够达到可以放松的程度，仍然需要时刻警惕着国外疫情的输入与国内疫情的反扑，很有可能，稍微的一时松懈，就会让过去两个月的工作成果毁于一旦。
Forrest Gump announced his diagnosis of the new crown virus Zhengzhou "King" because of Italy to see the virus, although the domestic epidemic is gradually under way, we are still far from the level of relaxation, still need to be vigilant against foreign imports and domestic outbreaks, very likely, a little slack will destroy the work of the past two months.
比如昨天引发全网愤慨的郑州男子“一人祸害一城”事件。
Yesterday, for example, aroused the indignation of the Zhengzhou men "one man scourge a city" incident.
这位郭姓男子声称，怕签证到期，就去了意大利看球赛。
The Guo man claimed to have gone to Italy to watch the game for fear his visa would expire.
谁知意大利成疫区了，就赶紧回来。
Who knows Italy has become a pestilence area, hastened back.
行程中自己一直戴着口罩，在机场、火车站都填了信息，回到郑州时自己没出现症状，9日开始头疼嗓子疼，就去药店买药。
I have been wearing masks, in the airport, railway stations have filled in information, back to Zhengzhou did not have symptoms, 9 began to headache throat pain, went to the pharmacy to buy medicine.
但事实上，郭某不仅去了意大利看球，行程显示他还顺道去巴黎转了一圈，在回国后，面对机场检疫人员和居委会的调查，依然撒谎掩饰行踪，直到被警察同志带走为止，他还在掩饰和狡辩。
However, the fact that Guo not only went to Italy to watch the ball, the itinerary also showed that he also dropped by to Paris, after the airport quarantine officers and neighborhood investigation, still lying cover up his whereabouts, until he was taken away by the police comrade, he is still camouflage and sophistry.
在这几天里，郭某乘坐了数次飞机、高铁、地铁等公共交通工具，同行人已经开始隔离，但感染程度未知，造成了巨大的潜在疫情安全隐患。
Over the past few days, Guo has flown a number of aircraft, high-speed rail, subway and other public transport, pedestrians have started isolation, but the extent of the infection is unknown, creating a huge potential epidemic security risks.
郑州男子郭某被立案侦查本已经连续多日实现确诊病患0增长的河南省与郑州市，也不得不因为这位“球迷”而再次进入紧急戒严状态，将复工复产复学的日期再度延迟……郭某因为一己之私，造成的直接或者间接的损失，恐怕难以计数，目前郑州市公安机关已经对他进行立案调查，而等待他的，无疑将会是法律的严惩！结语新冠病毒疫情还在全球扩散，这场战疫，已不再是一城一地又或者是一国的私事，全人类已然成为一个命运共同体。
Henan Province and Zhengzhou City, where the Zhengzhou men's case has been investigated for many days, have had to re-enter the state of emergency curfew, because the "fan" caused by the direct or indirect losses, I am afraid that the public security organs in Zhengzhou City, he is still a global spread, the epidemic, is no longer a city, or a private matter, humanity has become a destiny community.
在如此狡诈凶残的新冠病毒面前，每个人都是平等的，如果傲慢地去应对，失去对生命的敬畏，打击和惩罚自然会接踵而来。
In the face of such a cunning new crown virus, everyone is equal, if arrogant to deal with, loss of fear of life, the blow and punishment will naturally follow.
国内的疫情尚未平息，国外疫情还在蔓延，想要获得这场战疫的最后胜利，我们每一个人，仍然需要小心谨慎、充满敬畏地去做好自己该做的……扫描下方二维码，了解更多体育资讯。
If we want to win the final victory of the epidemic, each of us still needs to be careful and awe-filled to do what we should do... scan the lower two-dimensional code for more sports information.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一夜之间NBA停摆，足坛陷入恐慌！疫情面前“傲慢”是多么可怕。
The NBA stopped overnight and the football world was in a panic! How terrifying "arrogance" is in the face of the epidemic.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "体育";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & P & quot;;
var nickname = "腾讯体育";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "一夜之间NBA停摆，足坛陷入恐慌！疫情面前“傲慢”是多么可怕";。
var msg _ title = & quot; overnight NBA suspension and football panic! How awful & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "想要获得这场战疫的最后胜利，每一个人都需要小心谨慎、充满敬畏。
var msg _ desc = & quot; everyone needs to be careful and awe-inspiring to win the final victory of the epidemic.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="腾讯体育";。
Var title = & quot; Tencent & quot; & quot; & quot;
