义乌复工样本：抢不到的工人与抢不到的订单 | 深度报道。
Sample Yiwu: Unable workers and missed orders & # 124; in-depth coverage.
北青深一度。
North Qingsheng one degree.
北青深一度                      。
North Qingsheng one degree.
北青深一度。
North Qingsheng one degree.
北京青年报深度报道部官方公众号。
Beijing Youth Daily in-depth coverage of the Department's official public number.
提供更深一度，更快一步的时事新闻资讯，守望变革中国的纵深阅读。
To provide a deeper and faster news of current events, and to keep watch for changes in China's in-depth reading.
。
.
记者/韩谦实习记者/林亦桥 陈威敬编辑/计巍 宋建华双童吸管生产车间内工位间距由一米增至两米随着国内新冠肺炎确诊人数逐步下降，各省市应对政策也开始由疫情防控向复工复产倾斜。
Reporter / Han Qian Intern Reporter / Lin Yiqiao Chen Weijing Editors / Jianhua Shuangyong Production Shop of Jianghua Shuangcao Production Shop from 1 m to 2 m As the number of confirmed cases of new crown pneumonia in China gradually decreased, provincial and municipal policies also began to shift from disease prevention and control to resumption of production.
作为全球小商品集散地，庞大的用工需求使得义乌成为全国最早加入“抢人大战”的城市之一。
As a global distribution center for small goods, the huge demand for labor makes Yiwu become one of the earliest cities to join the "robbery war."
为应对“抢人大战”，义乌市政府拨款3亿元，外派44个工作组，通过包飞机、包高铁、包大巴等方式接回员工逾11万人。
In response to the "robbery war," the Yiwu municipal government allocated 300 million yuan to send 44 teams out to collect more than 110,000 employees by charter flights, high-speed rail bags and buses.
同时，还发布了自行返义人员实行最高全额路费补贴、首次在义乌就业员工每人补助1000元等奖励措施。
At the same time, it has also issued incentives such as maximum full travel subsidy for self-employed persons and 1,000 yuan per employee for the first time in Yiwu.
义乌市经信局的数据显示，截至3月10日全市工业企业已返岗人数近24万人，返岗率93.3%，复工率达到98.4%。
As of March 10, some 240,000 industrial enterprises had returned to work, with a return rate of 93.3 percent and a return to work rate of 98.4 percent, according to the bureau.
在深一度的采访中，一些企业负责人表示，随着员工不断返岗，产能逐步达到疫情前水平。
In a deep interview, some business leaders said that as employees continue to return to work, capacity gradually reached pre-epidemic levels.
与此同时，义乌在复工过程中的新问题也在浮出水面——复工并不意味着可以持续性复产，企业因订单量下降导致的“产能过剩”正在给义乌企业带来新的压力。
At the same time, new problems are surfacing in Yiwu's return to work - which does not mean a sustainable resumption of production - and the "overcapacity" of enterprises as orders fall is putting new pressure on Yiwu enterprises.
义乌市义亭镇分管工业生产工作的党委委员黄志宇表示，对企业的影响还是得看国内疫情什么时候能结束，以及国外疫情防控如何，“尤其是义乌的外贸企业占比很大，若是国外对进出口开始管控，那么影响将会是致命的”。
Huang Zhiyu, a member of the Party committee in charge of industrial production in Yiwu, said the impact on companies would still depend on when the epidemic ends in China and how well it is controlled abroad.
“现在疫情对企业的影响才刚开始，就像下雪时不是最冷的，融雪时才最要命。
"The impact of the epidemic on businesses is just beginning, just as it is not the coldest when it snows, but the most deadly when it melts snow.
”一名义乌小微企业主说。
'said a small business owner.
疫情期间，员工餐厅每张餐桌中间用保鲜膜隔开复工预备时大年初一起，义乌市义亭镇党委委员黄志宇便开始进入应急工作状态。
During the epidemic period, each table in the staff restaurant with plastic wrap between the preparation of the resumption of work, Yiwu Yiting Town party committee member Huang Zhiyu began to enter the state of emergency.
他分管镇上的工业生产，辖区内的义亭镇工业园区有600余家企业。
He is responsible for industrial production in the town, the jurisdiction of the town of Yiting Industrial Park has more than 600 enterprises.
1月23日，在武汉宣布暂时关闭离汉通道的同一天，浙江率先启动重大公共突发卫生事件一级响应。
On January 23, the same day Wuhan announced the temporary closure of the Han corridor, Zhejiang Province took the lead in launching a major public health emergency level response.
黄志宇需要对春节假期中在园区内驻厂的员工人数进行摸底，分发防疫资料、强调佩戴口罩、禁止聚集等要求。
Huang needs to map the number of workers stationed in the park during the Spring Festival, distribute vaccination materials, emphasize wearing masks, ban on gathering, and so on.
彼时，正在三亚度假的义乌市双童日用品有限公司（以下简称“双童吸管”）董事长楼仲平意识到疫情可能会对公司的年后复工造成影响，他决定提前返回义乌，将原来正月十二的返程机票改在了正月初三。
Lou Zhongping, chairman of Yiwu ShuangTong Daily Supplies Co., Ltd., who was vacationing in Sanya, decided to return early to Yiwu and reschedule his return ticket for the 12th day of the first month to the third day of the first month, realizing that the outbreak might have an impact on the company's resumption of work.
1月28日，返回义乌的第二天，楼仲平召集厂里的30余名驻厂员工，向大家分发口罩等防护用品，强调疫情期间的厂区纪律。
On January 28, the day after returning to Yiwu, Lou Zhongping called together more than 30 factory workers to distribute protective equipment such as masks, emphasizing plant discipline during the epidemic.
同一天，黄志宇负责的镇经济发展服务中心开始向辖区内企业调查目前应对疫情上的困难。
On the same day, the township economic development service center, headed by Huang Zhiyu, began investigating the current difficulties in responding to the epidemic with companies in his jurisdiction.
口罩、额温枪、消毒水等防疫物资的紧缺成为最急迫的问题。
The shortage of epidemic prevention materials such as masks, frontal temperature guns and disinfectant water has become the most urgent problem.
“统计上来口罩的缺口有28万多只，我当时就觉得坏了，这肯定会是个大问题”，从这天起，黄志宇发动手下十余名工作人员为企业筹措防疫物资，身边的亲戚朋友也被全部“利用”起来，黄志宇描述自己当时的状态，“求爷爷告奶奶，一听到哪儿还有口罩就立马扑上去”。
"From that day on, Huang Zhiyu started to mobilize more than a dozen of his staff to raise epidemic prevention materials for enterprises, and all his relatives and friends were" used "around him.
作为疫情期间的“硬通货”，口罩交易通常需要先支付全部货款才能发货。
As a "hard currency" during the outbreak, the mask trade usually requires full payment in advance of delivery.
大多数口罩由黄志宇自己垫资购买，“联系上卖方后，根本来不及再和园区内企业对接，要是我们个把小时内定不下来，那边就马上卖给别人了”。
Most of the masks were purchased at Huang's own expense. "After contacting the seller, we had no time to dock with the company in the park, and if we didn't get it down in an hour, it would be sold to someone else."
七八天后，在全国口罩仍存在较大缺口的时候，黄志宇以平均约1.6元一只的价格从义乌、江西、河南等地陆续买到了30万只普通医用口罩。
Seven or eight days later, when there was still a big gap in the national mask, Huang bought 300,000 medical masks from Yiwu, Jiangxi and Henan at an average price of about 1.6 yuan.
与此同时，园区内生产口罩原材料无纺布和防护面罩的两家卫生防疫企业于2月4日提前开工。
Meanwhile, two health and epidemic prevention enterprises in the park, which produce raw materials for masks and face masks, began work ahead of schedule on February 4.
用工难的问题开始显现出来——只有三四成员工到岗，大多员工由于公共交通中断、老家防控措施严格等情况无法返岗。
Problems began to emerge - only 30 to 40 per cent of employees arrived, most of them unable to return due to disruption of public transport and strict home control measures.
黄志宇开始忙于跟员工所在村镇政府进行协调。
Huang Zhiyu began to coordinate with the town government of his employees.
更早些时候，1月29日，作为金华市唯一一家额温枪生产企业，义乌百灵医疗器械有限公司（以下简称“百灵医疗”）便被义乌市疫情防控指挥部列入管控物资生产企业。
Earlier, January 29, as the only Jinhua City headgun production enterprises, Yiwu BaiLing Medical Device Co. Ltd (hereinafter referred to as "Bailing Medical") was listed by the Yiwu epidemic prevention and control command as a controlled material production enterprise.
从那时起，春节假期一直在参与疫情防控工作的义乌市人社局就业促进科科长蔡斌的工作重心便开始转移到企业复工复产上。
Since then, the Spring Festival has been involved in the work of prevention and control of the Yiwu Municipal Bureau of Employment Promotion Section Cai Bin's focus began to shift to enterprise resumption of work.
百灵医疗厂内当时仅2名员工可参与生产，而恢复一条生产线需10名工人。
At the time, only 2 employees were allowed to participate in the production of the plant, while 10 workers were needed to restore a production line.
为尽快恢复生产，蔡斌联系市技师协会，组织11名技师改造生产工艺，提高生产效率：原先需4名焊锡工6至8天完成的工作，改进后2名焊锡工在一天半内即可完成。
In order to resume production as soon as possible, Cai Bin contacted the Municipal Technicians' Association and organized 11 technicians to transform the production process to improve production efficiency: it had previously taken four solders six to eight days to complete the work, and the improvement of the two solders could be completed in a day and a half.
此后，还组织了机电技师学院电气工程系的11名师生前往企业一线岗位顶岗实习，投入生产。
Since then, has organized the electromechanical technician college electrical engineering department 11 teachers and students to the enterprise front-line post internship, put into production.
2月3日，浙江出台企业复工和疫情防控的17条规定。
On February 3, Zhejiang issued 17 regulations on the resumption of enterprise work and epidemic prevention and control.
当天下午，义乌市政府召集十多家企业举行了一场小范围非公开会议，鼓励企业进行复工申报工作。
In the afternoon, the government of Yiwu held a small closed meeting with more than a dozen enterprises to encourage them to return to work.
此后，政府对参会企业复工情况进行考察，最后通过了包括双童吸管在内的6家企业首批于2月10日复工。
Since then, the Government has conducted a study of the resumption of work in the participating enterprises, which culminated in the approval of the first batch of six enterprises, including the twin child straw, to resume work on 10 February.
从3日开始，双童吸管进行复工准备。
From the beginning of the 3rd, Shuangtongshu prepared for resumption of work.
厂内成立了防疫工作临时指挥部，自行设计了包括20名工作人员在内的5个防疫小组，其中包括对员工进行信息登记和体温记录的人流管控组；对隔离员工送餐、配发生活物资的隔离诊治组——当时，从河南等疫情较重省市返岗体温超过37.3度的员工需单独在厂区宿舍内隔离。
An interim epidemic prevention command was set up, and five vaccination teams, including 20 staff members, were set up, including a crowd control unit to record information and body temperature records for staff, and separate treatment groups to deliver meals and daily necessities to employees returning to work with temperatures exceeding 37.3 degrees from the worst-hit provinces and cities in Henan at that time.
此外，还有环境消杀组、宣传教育组、物资筹备组。
In addition, there are environmental elimination groups, publicity and education groups, materials preparatory group.
疫情期间，员工禁止出入厂区，生活用品由专人负责统一采买。
During the epidemic period, employees are prohibited from entering and leaving the factory area.
五天后，双童吸管厂区内防疫工作准备就绪，但楼仲平陷入了更大的焦虑，“员工迟迟回不来”。
Five days later, Shuangtong straw factory area epidemic prevention work ready, but Lou Zhongping fell into greater anxiety, "staff delayed return."
临至开工日，可以参与一线生产的员工仅有七八十号人，不足平时的四分之一。
At the start of the construction day, only 70 or 80 employees could be involved in front-line production, less than a quarter of the usual number.
义乌复工专项大巴在周口川汇区接返工工人外派工作组“抢人”随着各省市逐步推进复工复产，一线生产工人成为大家的互“抢”对象。
Yiwu restarted work special bus in Zhoukou Chuan exchange area to receive rework workers' assignment team "snatch people" With the provinces and cities gradually promote the resumption of work, the first-line production workers become everyone's mutual "grab.
2月12日发布的义乌第16号防控指挥令在首条指出，欢迎世界各地朋友来义乌创业、工作，并对初次来义乌求职创业人员提供3天免费食宿；13日义乌人社局发布做好企业复工用工保障工作的通知，指出要加大线上招聘力度。
In its first article, the Yiwu Control and Prevention Command Order No. 16, issued on February 12, states that friends from all over the world are welcome to start a business and work in Yiwu, and provide three days' free accommodation for first-time job seekers.
然而，即便有了优惠政策，由于公共交通阻断，员工仍无法顺利返回。
However, even with preferential policies, employees are unable to return successfully due to the disruption of public transport.
16日，义乌市政府再次发布企业用工保障意见，由政府全额补助企业包车接送员工、给予自行返回员工补贴。
On the 16th, the Yiwu Municipal Government again issued the enterprise employment guarantee opinion, by the government fully subsidizes the enterprise to transport the staff, gives the self-returning employee the subsidy.
上午开完布置会，下午蔡斌便同另外两名同事于驱车前往河南周口，与当地政府现场协调工人返岗的事情。
Morning layout meeting, Cai Bin and two other colleagues in the afternoon drive to Zhou Kou, Henan, and local authorities to coordinate the return of workers to the scene.
起初的进展并不顺利。
Initial progress has not been smooth.
由于各地防疫措施要求不尽相同，蔡斌有同事进入商丘永城市时被要求隔离14天。
Because epidemic prevention measures vary from place to place, Cai Bin had colleagues into Shang Qiu Yong City was asked to quarantine for 14 days.
疫情期间找不到餐厅，蔡斌一行午餐多以方便面解决，蔡斌笑道，当时豆腐乳、榨菜都是美味。
During the epidemic period could not find a restaurant, Cai Bin and his party lunch to more instant noodles solution, Cai Bin smiled, then bean curd, juice is delicious.
此外，前期工人外出务工的手续仍比较繁琐。
In addition, the procedures for pre-workers to go out to work are still cumbersome.
蔡斌介绍，工作刚开始时，河南对工人外出务工要求“三签字”，即村里签字、村医签字、乡镇签字。
Cai Bin said that at the beginning of the work, Henan workers to work outside the "three signatures," that is, village signature, village doctor's signature, township signature.
楼仲平告诉深一度记者，有员工出行前需办理健康证，要在镇上盖上三四个公章，“一个部门一个部门地签，这对基层员工来说并不容易”。
Lou Zhongping told reporters that employees need to apply for a health card before travelling, to cover the town with three or four seals, "one department, one department signed, this is not easy for grass-roots staff.
随着两省主管单位对接，外出工人证件办理的效率逐渐提高。
With the docking of the competent units in the two provinces, the efficiency of the document processing for outbound workers is gradually improved.
2月28日，河南与浙江签署“健康码”互认合作协议，持对方省份“健康码”人员，可参照本省“健康码”规则，予以亮码通行或落实相关管控措施。
February 28, Henan and Zhejiang signed a "health code" mutual recognition cooperation agreement, holding the other province's "health code" personnel, can refer to the province's "health code" rules, bright code or implementation of relevant control measures.
在蔡斌一行抵达周口的头两天，义乌市前后派出12辆大巴，将前期企业统计好的老员工接回。
Cai Bin and his party arrived in Zhoukou the first two days, around Yiwu sent 12 buses, will be good business statistics of the old employees back.
2月21日起，河南到义乌的专项大巴开通，初期每天有四五趟大巴运送工人至义乌。
February 21, Henan to Yiwu opened a special bus, the early days of four or five buses to transport workers to Yiwu.
24日开始，大巴每日发车数量稳定为13趟。
Starting on the 24th, the number of buses per day remained stable at 13.
从周口回义乌近900公里，约需15个小时大巴车程。
From Zhoukou back to Yiwu nearly 900 kilometers, about 15 hours bus ride.
蔡斌计算，一辆客车的包车费用为1万元，发车时上座率在五成左右，通常有约25人，人均成本约为400元。
Cai Bin calculates, the charter cost of a bus is 10000 yuan, when the car starts the rate of about 50%, usually there are about 25 people, the cost per person is about 400 yuan.
截至目前，蔡斌负责河南商丘组一共输送员工5000多人。
Up to now, Cai Bin in charge of Henan Shanqiu group transported more than 5,000 employees.
蔡斌和同事成为连结企业与员工的中间人。
Mr. Cai and his colleagues act as middlemen between businesses and employees.
每天，他们需要和近百家企业对接，一边了解企业需求，一边跟员工沟通，确定乘车时间。
Every day, they need to connect with nearly 100 companies, understand the needs of the enterprise, and communicate with employees to determine the time of travel.
一天打一两百个电话成为工作常态。
One or two hundred calls a day became the norm.
2月29日，蔡斌和另一名同事的手机号码因拨打电话过于频繁而被运营商认定为骚扰电话遭停机。
On February 29, Cai Bin and another colleague had their cell phone number grounded by operators because they had called too many calls.
由于当时部分省份一些村镇间公共交通尚未恢复，部分工人无法从家中抵达集合上车点。
Some workers were unable to reach the assembly points from their homes because public transport between some towns and villages in some provinces had not yet been restored.
到2月25日，仍有200多名员工尚未返岗，双童吸管派出两位高管人员分别前往陕西汉中和河南周口，为员工打通从家到集合上车点的最后一段路。
By February 25, more than 200 employees had yet to return to work. Two senior executives from Shuangtong straws were sent to Hanzhong, Shaanxi Province, and Zhou Kou, Henan Province, respectively, to open the last leg of the journey from home to the assembly point.
到达当天，被派往周口鹿邑县的双童吸管品管部经理陈学森接了12名员工。
On the day of arrival, Chen Xuesen, manager of the quality management department of Shuangtongyi county assigned to Zhoukou Luyi, received 12 employees.
从洛阳到鹿邑乘车的共6人，要把他们接过来，需租两辆私家车，花费2400元。
From Luoyang to Luyi a total of 6 people, to take them over, need to rent two private cars, the cost of 2400 yuan.
而在平日，单人乘坐从洛阳发往鹿邑的大巴车仅需花费60元。
On weekdays, a single passenger bus from Luoyang to Luyi costs as little as 60 yuan.
陈学森表示，企业也纠结过如此一来用工成本是否过于高昂，但是“工人自身承担不起包车成本，公共交通没开他们就一直等着，但企业生产等不及”。
Companies are also grappling with whether the cost of hiring is too high, says Mr Chen, but "workers cannot afford the cost of charters themselves, they wait for public transport, but companies cannot wait."
随着老员工陆续返程，蔡斌也开始着手帮企业“牵桥搭线”，开拓招工渠道。
With the return of the old staff, Cai Bin also began to help enterprises "bridge-building", open up recruitment channels.
3月3日，蔡斌同周口一所技术类院校达成政校企三方合作意向，这将在此后促进学院学生去义乌当地企业实习、就业。
On March 3, Cai Bin reached a trilateral cooperation intention with a technical school in Zhoukou, which will promote internships and employment for local enterprises in Yiwu.
被派往陕西汉中市的双童吸管员工毛斌向深一度记者介绍，这些天，双童的招聘信息通过汉中当地政府部门建立的各县区沟通交流群进行传播，此外，当地电视台对招工信息进行循环播放，政府部门的公众号也帮助宣传。
Mao Bin, a two-year-old straw worker sent to Hanzhong City, Shaanxi Province, told reporters that recruitment messages for the children are being distributed through county-level communication groups set up by local government departments.
截至目前，汉中市为双童吸管招聘到14名新员工。
So far, Hanzhong has recruited 14 new employees for the twin suckers.
义乌复工专班工作组提供的数据显示，截至3月7日，义乌市共分4批派出44个工作组，131名政府工作人员，包机4架次，火车专列24列，大巴2476辆，共接回逾11万名新老员工。
As at 7 March, Yiwu had sent 44 working groups, 131 government workers, chartered four flights, 24 trains and 2,476 buses, bringing back more than 110,000 old and new employees.
黄志宇所在的义亭镇工业园区，复工员工超过万人，其中约2000人由政府包车接回。
The Yiting Industrial Park, where Huang is based, has more than 10,000 workers, about 2,000 of whom were picked up by government-chartered vehicles.
由于本地一些小区处于封闭状态，禁止外来人口入内，而新员工又尚未找到住处，义亭镇征用了3家宾馆，300余张床位，为有需要的员工免费提供食宿。
Due to the closure of some of the local small areas and the ban on the entry of foreign residents and the fact that new employees had not yet found accommodation, the town of Yiting requisitioned three hotels with more than 300 beds to provide accommodation free of charge to those in need.
在义乌全市，这样的床位准备了4万张。
In the city of Yiwu, there are 40,000 such beds.
义乌市义亭镇“马上开工”复工复产服务中心小微企业的困境与自救提及用工问题，义乌市义亭镇志恒服饰公司总经理季冬初仍在发愁。
The Dilemma and Self-Help of Small and Micro Enterprises in Yiting Township of Yiwu City The difficulties and self-help mentioned that the general manager of Yiwu Yiting Zhi-heng Apparel Company is still worried about the beginning of winter.
开工近半月，自己厂里只有二十余人，仍存在近四分之一的用工缺口。
Nearly half a month into the project, there are only about 20 people in our factory, and there is still a gap of nearly a quarter.
季冬初解释，部分工人老家不在政府派车接送的站点附近，也有些员工仍担心疫情变化，打算待情况稳定后再出来。
At the beginning of the winter, it was explained that some workers did not come from places where the government would send cars to and from work, while others were still worried about the situation and were prepared to come out when things were stable.
年前的订单仍未完成，合同签订的交货期马上要到。
The order of years ago is not finished yet, the delivery date of the contract is coming soon.
季冬初说，有部分客户要求他采取空运的方式及时送达，“走海运是客户出钱，空运费用则全部由我们掏，成本至少增加百分之三十以上。
At the beginning of the winter, he was asked by some customers to deliver by air in time. "It was at the customer's expense and the cost of the airlift was entirely at our expense, increasing the cost by at least 30 percent."
一批几十万、一百万货值的货物走空运就得十几万，这笔钱垫下去我们就亏本了”。
A shipment of hundreds of thousands of dollars, a million worth of goods by air has to be tens of thousands of dollars, this money we lost.
平常有50多名生产工人的义乌一家箱包公司目前仅有约五分之一的员工到岗。
In Yiwu, a suitcase company with more than 50 workers, only about one-fifth of workers are on the job.
经理尹少帅告诉深一度记者，年前一批需3月初交货的上百万元的订单仍压在手里， “客户天天在催货，催货我也交不出来，没工人”。
Manager Yin told Shaoshai once told the deep reporters, the first batch of goods need to be delivered in early March million orders are still in hand, "customers are pushing goods, I can not pay out, no workers."
为填补部分老员工无法到岗的问题，双童吸管采取和养生馆等暂时尚无法开业的服务类行业共享员工的方式自救。
In order to fill some of the old staff can not get to the post, twin-child suction pipe and health-care center such as the service industry can not open the way to share employees to help themselves.
楼仲平介绍，目前此类员工已达到五六十人，且人数还在增加。
Lou Zhongping introduced, at present this kind of employee has reached 50 or 60 people, and the number is still increasing.
这些工人主要从事吸管包装的简单工序，“这种工作一两天就可以适应。
The workers are mainly involved in the simple process of packing straw, which can be adapted in a day or two.
我们为他们提供20元一小时的工资，也算是互相帮助”。
We help each other by offering them 20 yuan an hour's salary.
此外，双童吸管所在街道的妇联也帮忙募集了20多名农村剩余劳动力来支援。
In addition, the Women's Federation in the street where the twin straws are located has helped raise more than 20 rural surplus laborers to support it.
双童吸管员工毛斌在汉中招工过程中发现，即便是义乌放宽对招工企业的限制，对于人员输出地政府来说，也会要求义乌筛选规模较大的企业，“他们把人员输送给义乌，也得保证这些工人的工资标准、福利保障，选择中大型企业是最直接的筛选方式”。
Even if Yiwu loosens restrictions on job-seekers, Yiwu will be required to screen larger enterprises. "They will send people to Yiwu and ensure their salary standard and welfare protection, and the choice of large and medium-sized enterprises is the most direct way to screen."
对于目前人力市场的招工情况，季冬初与尹少帅均表示，情况不乐观。
For the current labor market recruitment, early winter and Yin Shuai said that the situation is not optimistic.
尹少帅从2月底开始在网上发布的招工信息，至今未有人应聘。
Recruitment information posted online by Yin Shuai since the end of February has so far gone unanswered.
他指出，春节后算是招工旺季，往年都会招聘十来个新人，来面试的还不少。
He pointed out that the Spring Festival is a recruitment season, usually a dozen new recruitment, to interview a lot of people.
也有企业主担心，生产工人短缺将成为这一年的常态，“工人或许会想，等疫情过去差不多一年都过去一半了，今年也没必要出来打工，在家附近随便找个工作就可以了”。
Some business owners worry that a shortage of productive workers will be the norm this year. "Workers may think that after almost half a year of the epidemic, there is no need to work this year and just look for a job nearby."
此外，在部分行业内，原料供应商尚未恢复。
In addition, raw material suppliers have yet to recover in some sectors.
楼仲平表示，从疫情对企业造成的危机来看，对浙江造成的影响是最大的，“浙江企业个体最小、最分散、产业链最不紧凑，一个产品往往有几十件、上百件不同厂商生产的产品组成，哪怕是缺一个小配件，都生产不出完整的产品”。
According to Lou Zhongping, the impact of the epidemic on enterprises, Zhejiang is the biggest impact, "Zhejiang enterprises are the smallest, most scattered, industrial chain is the least compact, often dozens of products, hundreds of different manufacturers of a product, even if the lack of a small accessories, will not produce a complete product.
尹少帅所在的箱包厂便遇到了上游企业产能不足的问题。
Yin Shuai's box factory has encountered the problem of the upstream enterprise capacity shortage.
做箱包的零部件杂且多，需要十多家供应商提供原材料。
The parts and components are miscellaneous and need more than a dozen suppliers to provide raw materials.
尹少帅表示，像皮革、牛津布一类的供应商目前仍基本处于断供状态，“催他们也没用，只能再等，也没有确定的时间。
Suppliers like leather and Oxfordcloth are still largely out of commission, says Mr Yin. "It's no use trying to hurry them. There's no time left."
他们的工人也跟不上，产量出不来”，箱包厂目前只能先使用库存材料。
Their workers have also been unable to keep up, "he said." At the moment, the box office is using only stock materials.
与此同时，黄志宇发现，义亭镇工业园区内小微企业订单量不足的影响已开始显现。
At the same time, Huang Zhiyu found that the town of Yiting Industrial Park small and small business orders have begun to show the impact.
由于小微企业订单不确定性更大，在整个环境不景气的情况下，订单量比以前大幅减少，生产出来东西卖不出去，这给家底本来就不厚的小微企业带来了更大负担。
Because of the greater uncertainty of orders for micro and small businesses, orders have been significantly reduced over the overall unfavourable environment, resulting in unsold products, placing an additional burden on already modest micro and small enterprises.
目前，和同类型的大型企业合作成为一种共赢模式。
At present, cooperation with the same type of large enterprises becomes a win-win mode.
在黄志宇的介绍下，园区内一家没有订单的文具类小微企业开始接过一家同类型的大型企业的部分生产任务，“大企业订单来不及做，小微企业没订单，两者可以互补”。
At Huang's introduction, a small and small stationery company without an order in the campus began to take over some of the production tasks of a large enterprise of the same type. "Big business orders are too late, and micro and small businesses have no orders, and the two complement each other."
一名采购商在义乌国际商贸城大门口“融雪时才最要命”2月18日上午9点，义乌国际商贸城比原计划提前3天开市。
A buyer at the gate of Yiwu International Trade City "melting snow is the most deadly," February 18 9: 00 a.m., Yiwu International Trade City than originally planned three days ahead of the opening.
总营业面积超过400万平米的义乌国际商贸城是中国最大的小商品出口基地之一，往常日客流量超过20多万人次。
Yiwu International Trade City, with a total turnover of more than 4 million square meters, is one of the largest export bases for small commodities in China.
“很惨淡”，在商贸城做内衣生意的陈舒翔形容自家档口复工半个月多来的经营状况。
"Very bleak", in the trade city to do underwear business Chen Shuxiang describes his own file back to work for more than half a month's operating conditions.
陈舒翔的企业生产的内衣九成销往国外，出口美洲、欧洲、中东等地。
The underwear that Chen Shuxiang produces 90% sells abroad, exports America, Europe, Middle East and so on.
他介绍，往年春节后是内衣的销售旺季，以前一天能有十来个下单的客户，而如今商贸城人流不多，基本三天才有一个客户，线下订单量减少近8成。
He said that after the Spring Festival in previous years, underwear sales peak season, to the day before a dozen customers, but now there are not many people, basically three days before a customer, online order volume fell by almost 80%.
跨境电商平台的线上销售为陈舒翔弥补了一部分损失。
Online sales of cross-border e-commerce platforms made up for some of Chen's losses.
线上订单的客户量比以往有所增长，一些老客户也通过微信等渠道继续补货。
The volume of online orders has grown over time, and some regular customers continue to replenish their wares through micromail and other channels.
但陈舒翔表示，线上订单虽多，但金额不高，基本在几千元至几万元间，而线下客户一单则达到30万元左右。
But Mr Chen said that while online orders were numerous, the sums were modest, ranging from a few thousand to tens of thousands of dollars, while offline customers amounted to about 300,000 yuan.
总体来看，订单总额与去年相比减少六成左右。
Overall, orders are down about 60% from last year.
在线上交流时，不乏有国外客户对陈舒翔提出疑虑，询问产品是否会携带病毒。
On-line exchanges, many foreign customers to Chen Shuxiang raised doubts, asking whether the product will carry the virus.
自2月26日宁夏中卫市公布首例境外输入型新冠肺炎确诊病例后，北京、浙江、广东等地也接连出现此类确诊病例共79例。
Since February 26, the city of Zhongwei, Ningxia, announced the first confirmed cases of foreign-imported pneumonia, Beijing, Zhejiang, Guangdong and other places have also seen a total of 79 such confirmed cases.
随着境外输入性新冠肺炎病例逐渐增多，北京、广东、上海等地陆续出台政策，要求境外入境的来华人员进行14天隔离。
With the number of cases of imported new crown pneumonia increasing, Beijing, Guangdong, Shanghai and other places have introduced policies requiring people coming to China from abroad to be quarantined for 14 days.
陈舒翔担心，随着疫情在海外持续蔓延，近期内是不会有更多外商前来订货了。
Mr Chen worries that as the epidemic continues to spread overseas, there will be no more foreign orders in the near future.
“现在疫情对企业的影响才刚开始。
"The impact of the epidemic on businesses is just beginning.
就像下雪时不是最冷的，融雪时才最要命。
Just as it is not the coldest when it snows, it is most deadly when it melts snow.
”一位小微企业主在接受采访时说。
'A small business owner said in an interview.
同样，黄志宇也认为，目前园区内企业大多才开工一两个星期，基本仍有年前确认的订单可供生产，虽有压力，但尚未形成对企业的致命影响。
Similarly, Mr Huang agrees that most of the enterprises in the campus are only starting work for a week or two, and that orders confirmed some years ago are still largely available for production and, under pressure, have not yet had a fatal impact on businesses.
在他看来，疫情到底会对企业造成多大的影响，目前仍未到见分晓的时候，“还是得看国内疫情什么时候能结束，国外疫情防控如何。
In his view, it is still not clear how much impact the epidemic will have on companies, "depending on when the epidemic ends and how well it is controlled abroad."
尤其是义乌的外贸企业占比很大，若是国外对进出口开始管控，那么影响将会是致命的”。
Yiwu, in particular, is a large proportion of foreign trade enterprises, if the foreign import and export control, then the impact will be fatal.
在3月4日第二次接受深一度记者采访时，楼仲平比一周前感受到了更大的压力，订单量不足和生产成本的提高成为目前企业面临的两大问题。
In his second interview with reporters on March 4, Lou Zhongping felt more pressure than a week ago, with insufficient orders and rising production costs becoming the two biggest problems facing companies.
楼仲平表示，双童吸管的国内订单占总订单量的四成，奶茶业、连锁快餐店、咖啡馆是双童的主要客户，2月受疫情影响，国内市场订单量基本为零。
Lou Zhongping said domestic orders for twin straw accounted for 40 per cent of total orders, with milk tea, chain fast food restaurants and cafes being the main customers of twin children.
欧洲和日本是双童主要的海外市场，而由于吸管与食品产业相关，考虑安全风险，欧洲客户已基本停止向双童吸管订货。
Europe and Japan are major overseas markets for twins, and European customers have largely stopped placing orders with twin straws because of safety risks associated with the food industry.
楼仲平统计，2月订单总量不到往年同期的两成，“正常情况下，一个月的订单额好歹也得有2000多万元。
Lou Zhongping statistics, the total number of orders in February is less than 20% of the same period in previous years, "under normal circumstances, a month of orders must somehow have more than 20 million yuan.
但是2月份才接到200多万。
However, more than 2 million were received in February.
3月开始，国内订单零零散散地有些增加，但也还是比较慢”。
Domestic orders began to increase somewhat sporadically in March, but at a slower pace. "
随着员工基本到位，企业产能超出了目前订单的需求量，双童也开始部分生产库存。
With staff basically in place, the company's production capacity exceeded the current demand for orders, Shuangtong also began to partially produce inventory.
楼仲平计算，生产库存的模式顶多能维持到四月底，“若是接不到订单，持续做库存便需要有几千万资金砸进去。
Lou Zhongping calculated that the production inventory model can be maintained until the end of April at the most, "if not to receive orders, continued inventory will need tens of millions of dollars into.
如果后续产业链无法逐步打开，那么企业就将面临不可持续生产的问题”。
If the subsequent industrial chain can not gradually open, then enterprises will face unsustainable production problems. "
企业生产成本也随着疫情防控成本、货运成本的增加而不断上升。
The cost of production also increases with the cost of disease control and freight transportation.
楼仲平表示，疫情带来的生产成本的上升存在于企业的方方面面：抽调近20名管理层脱产负责防疫工作；购买口罩、消毒水等防疫物资；复工初期上游供应链尚未恢复时，原材料采购成本高于平日数倍。
Lou Zhongping said that the increase in production costs caused by the outbreak was found in all aspects of enterprises: releasing nearly 20 management staff to take charge of epidemic prevention work; purchasing epidemic prevention materials such as masks and disinfectant water; and purchasing raw materials several times more than usual when the upstream supply chain had not been restored.
此外，还有库存货物的仓储成本，以及工位距离拉大造成机器利用率下降带来的隐形成本增加等。
In addition, there are the storage costs of goods in stock, as well as the increase in hidden costs due to the reduction in machine utilization due to the greater distance between workstations.
“目前来看，这个事情不由我们控制，疫情对我们的影响才刚刚开始”。
"At the moment, it's not under our control and the epidemic's impact on us is just beginning."
【反侵权公告】本文由北京青年报在腾讯新闻独家首发，未经授权，不得转载。
Anti-Tort Notice: This article by the Beijing Youth Daily in Tencent News exclusive launch, unauthorized, not reprint.
3例病理解剖初步诊断完成 死者肺部有黏液性分泌物|深度报道不想成为英雄，只是想不被绝望困住|深度报道送别李文亮医生：愿天堂没有病毒|深度报道。
PRELIMINARY DIAGNOSIS OF 3 CASES Completed with Mucous Exudates AT THE DEEP LIVER Don't want to be a hero, just to avoid despair. & # 160; & # 45; Farewell to Dr. Lee Wenliang: May there be no in-depth reports at & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
义乌复工样本：抢不到的工人与抢不到的订单 | 深度报道。
Sample Yiwu: Unable workers and missed orders & # 124; in-depth coverage.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "北青深一度";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at once.
var msg_title = "义乌复工样本：抢不到的工人与抢不到的订单 | 深度报道";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "“就像下雪时不是最冷的，融雪时才最要命”";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; when snow melts.
title: '11例病理解剖3例完成初步诊断，死者肺部有黏液性分泌物，输氧治疗需更小心 | 深度聚焦',。
At least 11 cases of pathological anatomy. Three cases completed initial diagnosis. The deceased had mucous discharge from the lungs.
subject_name: '北青深一度',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '29岁武汉女孩封城后的26天：她并不想成为英雄，只是想不被绝望困住｜深度人物',。
Wuhan, 29, was 26 days after it was shut down: She didn't want to be a hero, just not to be hopeless at & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '北青深一度',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '送别李文亮医生：愿天堂不再有病毒 | 深度报道',。
Dr. Li Wenliang: May heaven never again have AT & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '北青深一度',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="北青深一度";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at once.
