地球青年丨韩国大邱疫区的中国人实况：有人留下，有人逃离。
Chinese people in the region of Taegu: Some people stay behind, others flee.
在人间living                      。
Living on earth.
在人间living。
Living on earth.
用冷静的叙述抵抗冰冷 | 凤凰网在人间工作室出品。
Resist cold & # # 124; & # 45; Order of the Phoenix with a sober narrative.
The following article comes from 地球青年图鉴。
A guide to the youth of the planet.
Author 地青。
Authorization Green.
地球青年图鉴。
Youth of the Earth.
年轻的另一种可能。
Another possibility of being young.
晚饭后，老曹像往常一样去阳台抽烟，抽完烟的他突然快步走向厨房，对正在刷碗的女儿说：“我刚才在阳台上看呢，你看这大邱的夜景多美，一点也不像有病毒的样啊。
After supper Old Cao went to the balcony to smoke as usual, and when he had finished his cigarette he walked quickly to the kitchen and said to his daughter who was doing the dishes: "I was just looking out on the balcony.
我是不是做梦呢？你快使劲掐我一下，我肯定做梦呢。
Am I dreaming? You have to pinch me hard. I'm sure I'm dreaming.
”女儿用上吃奶的劲儿掐了一下他的肚子，他笑道，“一点也不疼，我肯定做梦呢”。
"My daughter gave him a good pinch on the stomach, and he smiled," It doesn't hurt at all. I must have dreamed. "
直到三月初，他也不愿意承认大邱成为重灾区的这个事实。
Until early March, he was reluctant to acknowledge the fact that Daegu had become a major disaster area.
据韩联社报道，韩国中央防疫对策本部10日通报，截至当天0时，全国累计确诊7513例，其中大邱市5663例。
As of 00.00 on the same day, a total of 7,513 cases had been diagnosed, including 5,663 in Daegu, the central anti-epidemic agency said.
可以说，疫情下的大邱之于韩国，正如武汉之于中国。
It can be said that Daegu under the epidemic in South Korea, just as Wuhan in China.
每年春分，大邱的樱花将迎来最美的时刻。
Every spring equinox, Daegu cherry blossoms will usher in the most beautiful moment.
这座继首尔、釜山、仁川之后的韩国第4大城市，拥有260万人口，位于洛东江中游支流琴湖江沿岸山间盆地中，群山环抱。
South Korea's fourth-largest city, behind Seoul, Busan and Incheon, has a population of 2.6 million and is surrounded by mountains in a mountainous basin along the Chin-Hu River, a midstream branch of the Lodongjiang River.
△ 大邱景色。
Dazegu view.
摄影：墨客老曹来自吉林省的一个朝鲜族家庭，2007年他和妻子来到韩国打拼，大邱是他们的第一站。
Photo: Mohist Lao Cao comes from a Korean family in Jilin province. In 2007, he and his wife came to Korea to fight. Daegu was their first stop.
老曹的女儿在吉林省长春市读书，每年的寒暑假都会过来和爸妈一起住，大邱已经成为这一家人的第二个家。
Lao Cao's daughter is studying in Changchun City, Jilin Province. Every summer and winter, she comes to live with her parents. Daegu has become the family's second home.
今年1月11日，女儿和往常一样坐飞机从老家飞到大邱去看望爸妈，这是她第18次飞往韩国和爸妈团聚。
She flew from her hometown to Daegu to see her parents. It was her 18th flight to South Korea to join her parents.
近半年未见面的一家人预备一起好好过个年，然后趁着假期去首尔和济州岛游玩。
Families who haven't met for nearly six months plan to spend the next year together, then take advantage of their holidays to visit Seoul and Jeju Island.
同样喜爱这座城市的，还有在大邱生活了10年的阿白。
Also loving the city was Abba, who had lived in Daegu for 10 years.
从本科到博士，大邱见证了她的生活种种。
From undergraduate to PhD, Daegu has witnessed many aspects of her life.
对于阿白来说，大邱是一座“刚刚好”的城市，人口密度、消费水平、各类设施都刚刚好，不拥挤、不匆忙。
For Abbey, Daegu was a "just-right" city, with just the right population density, consumption and facilities of all kinds, not crowded and not in a hurry.
唯一有些不那么刚刚好的，是它夏日“出格”的温度。
The only thing that is not so good is its "out of date" summer temperature.
大邱属亚热带季风气候，像武汉一样有着“40度的大夏天”，本地人都称之为“火炉”。
Taegu is a sub-tropical monsoon climate, like Wuhan has a "40 degree summer," local people are known as the "stove.
阿白是内蒙古人，大邱的盆地气候与家乡大相径庭，但是阿白非常喜欢大邱，“整个庆尚北道的氛围和这里40度的夏天一样热情”。
Bai is a native of Inner Mongolia. Daegu's basin has a very different climate from his hometown, but Ah Bai likes Daqiu very much.
阿白所在的启明大学是韩国10大最美校园之一，和武大的樱花一样，这里的樱花也是满树烂漫、如云似霞。
One of South Korea's 10 most beautiful campuses, Albembe's Qiming University is one of the 10 most beautiful campuses in South Korea. Like the cherry blossoms at Wuda, the blossoms are filled with trees and clouds.
每年的春天，都是当地人踏青赏樱的好去处。
Every spring, it is a good place for local people to visit Sakura.
△ 樱花盛开时的启明大学。
Qiming University in Blooming of Sakura.
摄影：阿白然而今年，老曹一家策划已久的出游计划泡汤，启明大学校园已经禁止外人入内。
Photo: Ah Bai This year, however, the Cao family's long-planned excursion plan went up in smoke, and the Qiming University campus was closed to outsiders.
大邱的樱花就要开了，但没有多少人还在意。
Daegu's cherry blossoms are about to open, but not many people care.
△大邱街道。
Tai Qiu Street.
摄影：阿白大邱是一座夜生活丰富的城市，凌晨一两点的咖啡馆依旧座无虚席。
Photo: Abhiedaegu is a nightlife city, one or two in the morning the coffee shop is still full.
最开始，老曹只是在新闻里听到新冠肺炎。
At first, Old Cao only heard about the new crown pneumonia on the news.
1月20日韩国发现首例新型肺炎感染者，之后的每日新增确诊病例均不超过4例，而且大多数患者有境外旅游史或者为密切接触者。
The first case of new pneumonia was found in South Korea on January 20, and no more than four new cases were confirmed each day, most of them with an overseas travel history or close contacts.
因为确诊患者没有大幅增长，确诊一例就会立即隔离治疗、及时公开信息方便大家查询，而且没有出现重症和死亡病例，那时韩国街头戴口罩的人不多。
Since there was no significant increase in the number of patients diagnosed, one case was immediately isolated for treatment, timely disclosure of information was readily available and there were no cases of serious illness or death, when the number of street masks in South Korea was low.
转折发生在“31号病人”的出现，2月18日，韩国大邱市一位61岁、代号为“31”的女性被确诊新冠肺炎，患者于6日因交通事故在大邱市一家医院接受治疗，17日出院。
A 61-year-old woman, code-named "31," was diagnosed with pneumonia on Feb. 18 in Daegu, South Korea. She was treated for a traffic accident at a Daegu hospital and was discharged on February 17.
在此期间，她两度前往新天地教会参加礼拜，还曾于15日与朋友去大邱市一家酒店用餐。
During this time, she went to the Church of Xintiandi on two occasions to attend church, and on the 15th she went to a hotel in Daegu City with her friends for dinner.
据初步统计，参加这两场礼拜的人数超过1000人。
According to preliminary statistics, more than 1,000 people attended the two services.
2月20日，韩国《中央日报》通报，新增病例中有不少和第31号确诊患者常去的大邱市南区大明洞新天地大邱教会有关。
On February 20, the South Korean newspaper China Daily reported that many of the new cases were related to the Taegu Church in Daming-dong, South District of Taegu City, which is frequented by patients diagnosed with No. 31.
在这位“超级传播者”的出现后，韩国感染人数开始翻倍增长，民众也逐渐意识到情况不一样了。
With the emergence of the "super-communicator," the number of South Koreans infected has doubled, and people are coming to realize that the situation is different.
最明显的改变是，街上戴口罩的人多了起来。
The most obvious change is the increase in the number of people wearing masks on the streets.
人们开始抢购防疫物资，一枚口罩的价格从2000韩元涨到6000韩元。
People began scrambling for epidemic prevention supplies, and the price of a mask rose from 2,000 won to 6,000 won.
韩国中央防疫对策本部3月6日下午通报，因为疫情加剧，韩国市场“口罩荒”现象日益严重，从6日起对民众实施口罩限购措施。
South Korea's market for face masks has been worsening due to the worsening of the epidemic and people have been banned from buying masks since March 6, the central government said.
根据这一措施，本周内，韩国每人最多可购买2只口罩；从9日开始，韩国将按照出生年份的奇偶数对口罩商品实行限购：即奇数年出生的人，只能在奇数日期购买口罩；偶数年出生的人，则只能在偶数日期购买口罩；同时每人每周限购2只口罩。
Under the measure, South Korea will buy up to two face masks per person this week, and will restrict mask purchases to odd-year-olds on odd days, and even-numbered years to even-numbered days, and two masks per person per week.
△大邱街头。
Tai Qiu Street.
摄影：阿白虽然大邱的医院目前呈紧急状态，物资短缺、医务人员短缺、病床不足。
Photo: Although Daegu's hospital is currently in a state of emergency, material shortages, shortage of medical staff, lack of beds.
但是大邱市内公共交通仍未停运，老曹依旧正常上下班，公司按上班天数发放口罩，社区也给每家发放口罩。
But public transport is still running in Daegu. Cao still works normally. The company distributes masks by the number of working days, and the community distributes masks to every family.
妻子所在会社的绩效明显下降，但是依旧没有停工迹象。
The performance of the wife's club was significantly reduced, but there were still no signs of work stoppage.
女儿在家中上网课进行学习，她调侃这个特殊时期最适合减肥，“门又出不去，家里没余粮”。
Daughter in the home online classes to learn, she joked that this special period is the most suitable to lose weight, "door can not go out, no surplus at home."
相对而言，阿白对疫情的到来是有所准备的。
In contrast, Abel was prepared for the outbreak.
除夕夜，她和留学生朋友一起吃年夜饭的时候就在讨论疫情，在意识到严重性之后，便约好第二天一起去超市和药店囤一囤口罩、消毒液等防疫物资。
On New Year's Eve, when she was having Chinese New Year's Eve dinner with friends of foreign students, she talked about the epidemic situation and, realizing the seriousness of the disease, arranged to go to the supermarket and drugstore the next day together, hoarding a mask, disinfectant and other epidemic prevention materials.
当时药店里买口罩的都是中国学生，基本上人手一摞。
At the time, pharmacies were buying masks of Chinese students, basically hand-piled.
“那个时候韩国人还没什么意识，街上戴口罩的，一定是中国留学生”。
"At that time, Koreans were not conscious, the street wearing masks, must be Chinese students."
阿白曾经在地铁上因为戴着口罩和朋友用中文交流而被视为异类，并得到不友善的目光。
Bai was seen as an alien and unfriendly on the subway for wearing a mask and communicating with friends in Chinese.
1月23日，韩国人在青瓦台主页发起请愿，请求政府禁止中国人入境；一些餐厅门口甚至直接贴出“禁止中国人入内”的字样。
On January 23, South Koreans launched a petition on the Qingwadai home page, asking the government to ban Chinese from entering the country; some restaurants have even directly posted the words "No Chinese allowed in."
那个时候，无论是中国人还是韩国人，都觉得肺炎在韩国可防可控、不会大范围蔓延。
At the time, both Chinese and South Koreans felt that pneumonia in South Korea was preventable and not widespread.
但是谁都没有想到，疫情会如此突然地在大邱爆发。
But no one expected the outbreak to erupt so suddenly in Daegu.
启明大学附属童山医院定点收治大邱的发热病人，这家与病毒短兵相接的医院距离学校的距离不过200米。
Qiming University's Bleak Hills Hospital, which is located just 200 meters away from the school, treats Daegu's febrile patients.
而阿白租的房子和学校仅一街之隔，不大的房间里书本就占了不少地方，她和她的猫咪一起住着。
Ah Bi's rented house was only a block away from the school, and books occupied a lot of space in the small room. She lived with her cat.
△阿白在学校的临时检疫站做志愿者。
Ah Bai volunteered at the school's temporary quarantine station.
摄影：阿白疫情爆发以来，启明大学一直都在向学生强调预防新冠病毒，并要求留学生在2月21日至24日集中返校，阿白便去学校宿舍的临时检疫站做翻译志愿者。
Photo: Since the outbreak of the outbreak, Qiming University has been stressing the prevention of the new crown virus to students. Foreign students are required to focus on returning to school from February 21 to 24.
这是她第一次穿防护服、戴护目镜，第一次戴医用口罩，她觉得“特别特别硬，戴了几个小时之后脸就发红发烫，喘不上气”。
It was her first time to wear protective clothing, goggles and a medical mask, and she felt "particularly hard and flushed and panting after a few hours."
虽然大邱已经是重灾区，但阿白并没有感觉到生活有特别大的变化。
Although Daegu has been a major disaster area, but Bai did not feel that life has changed greatly.
要修的课在上一学期基本已经修完，剩下的就是毕业论文。
The course to be taken in the last semester has been basically finished, the rest is the graduation thesis.
她一直安慰身边朋友保持乐观态度，“只要坚持不出门，相信一定能坚持过去赢得胜利”。
She has been comforting friends around her optimistic attitude, "as long as you stick to the door, believe that will persist in the past won victory."
真正让她感到自己的确处在风暴中心的，是接踵而至的媒体采访和vlog拍摄邀请。
What really made her feel at the center of the storm was the constant stream of media interviews and vlog invitations.
她拍摄空无一人的街道和自己的隔离生活，采访因为疫情营业额减少九成的麻辣烫店主，吐槽50元两个梨的物价……有一天状态不大好，偏头疼、失眠、脸上也冒痘，她点了份1000毫升的咖啡外卖，“用最爱的拿铁慰藉自己无处安放的紧张情绪”。
She filmed the empty streets and isolated her life, interviewed the hottest shopkeeper who had lost 90 percent of his turnover, spat out 50 yuan and two pears... one day she was in bad shape, migraine, insomnia, and chicken pox. She ordered a 1000 ml coffee take-out, "comforting herself with her favorite latte."
虽然有很多人关心她，但是意识到自己处于风暴中心后，她还是不可避免地有些不安。
Although many people cared about her, she was unavoidably upset when she realized that she was in the center of the storm.
在一次聊天中，一位大邱当地居民用不大熟练的中文和小雪讨论了他对疫情的看法，“我很担心，因为病人越来越多了。
In a chat, a Daegu resident discussed his views on the outbreak in less-skilled Chinese and Xue. "I'm worried because there are more patients.
中国是共产主义所以能控制人们，不过韩国不能控制人们”，他没有那么害怕病毒，但是害怕生活被病毒影响。
China is communist so it can control people, but South Korea can't control people. "He's not so afraid of viruses, but he's afraid that life will be affected by them.
韩国并没有强制停工或者封城，疫情几乎全部靠居民自觉防护。
South Korea has not forced shutdown or closure of the city, the epidemic almost entirely rely on the residents self-protection.
然而，这种“全靠自觉”却让小雪慌张。
However, this "rely entirely on self-awareness" but let snow fluster.
小雪在大邱留学，去年12月底学校放假后，她在火锅店找了一份兼职。
Xiaoxue studied in Daqiu, after the school holiday at the end of December, she found a part-time job in a hotpot shop.
她预备2月份再回家，在韩国备考韩语五级顺便为下学期攒些生活费。
She plans to return home in February and save up for the next semester at the Korean preparatory grade five.
然而因为国内疫情，小雪便取消了回家的计划。
However, because of the domestic epidemic, snow canceled plans to go home.
在威海的父母开始每天和她通话，提醒她注意安全，那时候，小雪还没有想过这次新冠肺炎会变成全球性的疫情。
Her parents in Weihai began talking to her every day to remind her to be safe, and by then Snow hadn't expected the outbreak to become global.
超级传播者出现后，小雪几乎每天都会收到大邱政府发来的警报。
Almost every day after the advent of the super-spreader, Snow received warnings from the Daegu government.
她兼职的火锅店客流明显减少，但也有胆大的客人，“不戴口罩还一起聚餐”。
Her part-time hotpot restaurant is noticeably less crowded, but there are also daring guests who "don't wear masks and dine together."
尽管生意大幅下降，老板却不愿意关门，“最严重的那几天才迫不得已关了四天”。
Despite the sharp decline in business, the boss was reluctant to close the door, "the worst days were forced into four days."
火锅店除了购置消毒水和口罩之外，并没有特别提出应对疫情的卫生措施，这让小雪有些提心吊胆，“感觉这里防疫全靠自觉”。
Hotpot shop in addition to the purchase of disinfectant water and masks, did not specifically propose health measures to deal with the epidemic, which made Xue a bit worried, "feel here rely on self-awareness."
△疫情期间，大邱街头。
During the delta outbreak, Daegu was on the street.
摄影：小雪不工作的时候，小雪就会在出租屋里学习。
Photography: When the snow does not work, the snow will be in the rental room to study.
因为这次疫情，韩国政府首次推迟开学，有的课程可能需要用网课代替。
Because of the outbreak, South Korea's government postponed classes for the first time, and some classes may need to be replaced by online classes.
但小雪觉得线下和线上授课都没有区别，因为她韩语不够熟练，听懂专业课的难度还是很大。
But Snow felt no difference between online and offline classes, because she was not proficient in Korean and it was difficult to understand professional courses.
因为推迟开学和在线授课，大部分学校都缩短了授课时间。
Most schools have cut back on hours of instruction because of delays in starting classes and online classes.
3月2日，有网友发起了“减免2020年第一学期学费”的请愿活动，如果4月1日参与请愿的人数超过十万，则有可能得到青瓦台的回应。
On March 2, a netizen launched a petition calling for "tuition fee reduction for the first semester of 2020." If more than 100,000 people take part in the petition on April 1, they may receive a response from Qingwadai.
3月4日，小雪也在请愿链接上点击了“同意”，她参与这次请愿活动时已经有近五万人参与。
On March 4, Snow also clicked "Agree" on the petition link, which she joined with nearly 50,000 people at the time.
根据“奋斗在韩国论坛”的统计，这次疫情中，有超过三分之一的学生在韩国自我隔离，也有部分学生在考虑回国或者已经回国。
More than a third of the students are isolated in South Korea, while others are considering returning home or have already returned, according to Struggle to Be in South Korea.
小涵就是预备回国的学生之一，而这次回家与她上次返校的间隔还不到一个月。
Xiao Han is one of the students preparing to return home less than a month after her last trip back to school.
2月10日，启明大学向中国学生发邮件，通知所有学生必须在2月21日至24日之间返回韩国，否则便视为自动休学。
On February 10, Qiming University sent an e-mail to Chinese students informing them that all students must return to the Republic of Korea between February 21 and 24, failing which they would be automatically suspended.
因为不想休学，小涵立即买好返程的机票预备回校。
As he did not want to leave school, Xiao Han immediately bought a return ticket ready to go back to school.
2月24日上午11时50分，小涵从威海乘坐飞机前往首尔，下午2点落地仁川机场。
On 24 February, at 11.50 a.m., Hsiao Han flew from Weihai to Seoul, where he landed at Incheon Airport at 2 p.m.
在机场搭建的临时场地里她被要求下载一个自我诊断app，之后的14天里需要每天记录自己的身体状况。
She was asked to download a self-diagnostic app at the airport's makeshift site and to record her health daily for the next 14 days.
但是小涵觉得“这个软件登记身体情况完全可以作假，弄了和没弄一样”。
But Xiao Han thinks "this software registers the body condition completely to be false, obtained and did not make the same."
当日下午3点，小涵离开仁川机场，乘坐大巴车去往东大邱。
At 3 p.m. on the same day, Hsiao Han left Incheon Airport and took a bus to East Taegu.
上车时发现司机和往常一样并未佩戴口罩，四个半小时的路程让小涵觉得格外漫长。
On boarding the bus, he found that the driver was not wearing a mask as usual.
到达东大邱后，有专门的大巴将学生们送到学校，“很大的那种客车上只坐了4个学生”。
After arriving in East Taegu, there was a special bus to take the students to school. "There were only four students on the big bus."
小涵学校宿舍门口搭起了临时防疫站，保健所的医生和护士会做简单的检查和防疫。
A temporary epidemic prevention station has been set up in front of the dormitory of Xiaohan school. Doctors and nurses from the clinic will do a simple inspection and epidemic prevention.
之后到达的学生们需要在宿舍隔离两星期，期间国际协力中心会提供生活起居用品和食物。
Students arriving later are segregated in dormitories for two weeks, during which time JICA provides daily necessities and food.
△隔离期间的午餐。
Lunch during the cooling off period.
摄影：小涵原本小涵以为在隔离结束后可以顺利开学，但疫情在大邱的爆发速度出乎意料。
Photography: Xiao Han originally thought that after the isolation can smoothly start school, but the outbreak in Daegu unexpected speed.
父母十分担心她的安危，希望她回国。
Her parents were very worried about her safety and wanted her to return home.
因为一回学校便开始隔离，小涵没有在2月截止前缴纳学费，按照学校规定，她的休学申请必须在3月23日至27日提交。
Since school segregation began, Hsiao Han did not pay her tuition fees by the end of February. According to the school regulations, her application for suspension had to be submitted between March 23 and 27.
大邱的航班都已停运，小涵没有太多的时间犹豫和观望，便买好了3月11日从首尔出发的机票，“休学可以线上申请，先回去再说”。
Daegu's flight has been suspended. Without too much time to hesitate and wait and see, Xiao Han bought the March 11 flight from Seoul.
因为原本计划3月11日离开韩国，隔离结束后小涵便借住在朋友家。
As he had planned to leave Korea on March 11, Han lived at his friend's home after the separation.
然而3月7日下午，手机消息提示小涵，回家的航班被取消了。
However, on the afternoon of March 7, the mobile phone message implied that the flight home had been canceled.
她立马对比票价，日期往后价格一路上涨。
She contrasted the fares at once and the price went up all the way back.
小涵“拖不起了”，便抢了第二天早上10点半从仁川机场飞往威海的机票。
"Cannot afford to drag," then snatched the next morning from Incheon Airport to Weihai flight tickets.
半个小时之后，出票了。
Half an hour later, the ticket was issued.
小涵赶紧收拾好行李，准备连夜前往仁川机场。
Hands hurriedly pack up, ready to go to Incheon Airport overnight.
有些同学选择直接包车，小涵有些舍不得35万韩元（约2100人民币）的包车费用，在得知还有大巴后，小涵便打车到东大邱，准备再从东大邱坐大巴前往仁川机场。
Some students chose to charter cars directly. With some reluctance to pay 350,000 won (about 2100 RMB) for the charter costs, Xiao Han took a taxi to Dongdaegu and prepared to take another bus from Dongdaegu to Incheon Airport.
在打车前往东大邱的途中，“不正经戴好口罩”的出租车司机让小涵有些害怕，司机甚至摘下口罩和她说话并伸手与她击掌，心惊胆战的小涵“只能多给自己消毒”。
On the way to Dongdaegu, the taxi driver, "Dressed badly," frightened Xiao Han. The driver even took off his mask, spoke to her and reached for her hand.
△小涵在东大邱车站候车厅等待去往仁川机场的巴士出发。
Xiaohan waited in the waiting hall of Dongdaegu Station for the bus departure for Incheon Airport.
摄影：小涵晚上12点半，小涵的巴士从东大邱开往仁川机场。
Photo: At 12: 30 pm, Xiao Han's bus leaves Dongdaegu for Incheon Airport.
与她两个座位之隔的是一位中国大姐，“戴着手套、穿好防护服全服武装”。
Two seats away from her is a Chinese elder sister, "wearing gloves, wearing protective clothing fully armed."
大巴车上人比想象中要多，基本上都是中国人，遇见同胞以及周围人足够的防护让小涵的心稍稍安定了下来。
Buses more people than expected, are basically Chinese, meet compatriots and people around enough protection so that the heart of culpa slightly calm down.
天快亮的时候，小涵也来到了仁川机场，和“一目了然”的大邱机场相比，仁川机场要大得多。
As day dawned, Hsiao Han also arrived at Incheon Airport, which is much larger than Daegu Airport, which is "very visible."
小涵乘坐地铁才来到自己的登机口，一同候机的基本都是同胞，大家整整齐齐地戴着口罩。
Xiao Han took the subway to his own gate, together with the basic plane are compatriots, we all wear a mask neatly.
△ 在仁川机场候机的人们。
People waiting for a flight at Incheon Airport.
摄影：小涵3月8日上午10点半，小涵经过一个多小时的飞行，飞过一个小时的时差，降落在威海机场。
Photo: Xiao Han March 8, 10: 30 a.m., Xiaohan after more than an hour's flight, flying over an hour of jet lag, landed at Weihai Airport.
飞机停下，经过防疫人员检查后，全体乘客按性别分批次在大厅按照座位号坐好，测量体温并填写相关表格记录身体情况和个人信息。
The aircraft stopped, after the vaccination personnel check, all passengers by gender in groups in the hall according to seat number, take temperature and fill out the relevant forms to record physical conditions and personal information.
因为这天是妇女节，机场防疫人员还给女性乘客们送了花。
Because it was Women's Day, airport cordon sanitaire gave flowers to the women passengers.
小涵一开始以为，对于来自大邱的乘客应该会有额外的检查，但威海机场对所有乘客的检查都是一致的：量体温，填表格——几乎同样内容的表格小涵甚至填了6遍。
At first Hsiao thought that there should be extra checks on passengers from Daegu, but Weihai airport checks all passengers the same: take body temperature, fill out the forms - almost the same content of the form has been filled out six times.
小涵做好了被严格检查和盘问的准备，但是全副武装的机场检查人员似乎对“大邱”两个字并不在意。
Hank is ready to be strictly checked and questioned, but heavily armed airport inspectors seem to be oblivious to the word "Daegu."
量好体温、填好表格后，小涵和其他所有乘客一样按居住地所属区被划分，乘坐不同大巴，由警车开路送往对应的隔离点。
After taking your temperature and filling out the form, the culprit, like all the other passengers, is divided by area of residence, taking different buses and driving by police car to the respective isolation points.
△在驾驶室和车厢之间特意加了一层薄膜。
A special film has been added between the cockpit and the carriage.
摄影：小涵从3月7日离开学校，直到抵达隔离点，小涵没有进食也没有喝水。
Photo: Xiao Han left school on March 7 and arrived at the quarantine point. He did not eat or drink water.
原本她以为会和之前回国的同学一样隔离七7天之后便可以回家，后来被通知需要隔离14天。
She had thought she would be able to return home after seven days of isolation, as her former classmates had done, and was later told that she needed 14 days of isolation.
她的妈妈知道情况后，特意骑着小电驴想来看她一眼。
When her mother learned about the situation, she wanted to take a look at her on her little donkey.
因为隔离旅店的这侧马路在修路，小涵和在对街的妈妈只远远望了一眼。
As the road on this side of the isolated inn was being repaired, Hsiao Han and his mother on the opposite side of the street only looked away.
△小涵所在的隔离酒店环境。
The isolated hotel environment where delta han is located.
摄影：小涵和小涵同一批次、入住同一隔离酒店的共有九人。
Photography: Xiao Han and Xiaohan in the same batch, a total of nine people in the same isolation hotel.
隔着墙壁，小涵听到有人反应空调不制热。
Through the walls, culprits hear people respond that the air conditioner does not make heat.
她打开自己房间的空调，只有站在空调正下方才有些许暖意。
She turned on the air conditioner in her room, and it was under the air conditioner that she got a little warm.
工作人员送来的饼干和方便面让她有些怀念在韩国隔离时的三餐，饿坏了的她希望晚餐能够有所改善。
Cookies and instant noodles delivered by the staff made her miss the meals served in South Korea's isolation, and she hoped the meal would improve.
据启明大学的一份行政通知文件显示，截至2月25日，启明大学的1000多名中国留学生中有350名以上的学生选择休学，而这一数字在持续增加。
As of February 25, more than 350 of the more than 1,000 Chinese students at Qiming University had suspended their studies, and the number continues to rise, according to an administrative circular from the university.
原本，小涵想趁着假期在韩国兼职，为下学期赚点学费。
Originally, Xiaohan wanted to take advantage of the holiday in Korea part-time, for next semester to earn some tuition.
尽管已经得到了50%的学费减免，小涵依旧觉得一学期的花销有些贵，而这次来回两趟花在路上的钱就抵得上她兼职一个月的工资。
Even with a 50% tuition fee waiver, she feels like spending a semester at a time when two trips to the road is worth a month's part-time salary.
这是小涵第一次休学，也是她第一次离家才半个月就又原路返程。
This is the first time Xiaohan suspended school, but also the first time she left home only half a month on the road back.
小涵所在的隔离点距家仅3分钟的路程，但至少要等14天之后，她才能回家。
Han is only three minutes away from her home, but she will not be able to go home until at least 14 days later.
文中老曹、阿白、小雪、小涵均为化名。
Lao Cao, Bai Bai, Xiao Xue and Xiaohan are all aliases.
除特殊标注外，图片均由受访者提供作者 | 易琬玉编辑| 图拉实习生 | 匡若彤凤凰新闻客户端 凤凰网在人间工作室出品新型肺炎疫情牵动人心，《在人间》现面向全国网友征稿：（一）疫区影像日记如果你身处疫区请你用照片（视频）和文字记录你所听闻和见到的一切照片不少于3张文字不少于300字投稿方式：微信联系人间君（zairenjianliving）（二）抗击疫情真实故事无论你是一线医护人员、志愿者、确诊或疑似患者及家属、已治愈出院人士等等，如果希望讲述疫情相关经历，请微信联系人间君（zairenjianliving）。
Carmen or Carmen E-Men or Carmen or Carmen AT & # 144; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; &
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
地球青年丨韩国大邱疫区的中国人实况：有人留下，有人逃离。
Chinese people in the region of Taegu: Some people stay behind, others flee.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "在人间living";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; at & quot; among men.
var msg_title = "地球青年丨韩国大邱疫区的中国人实况：有人留下，有人逃离";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Chinese from the Earth into the Taegu region: Someone left, someone fled and & quot;;
var msg_desc = "疫情下的大邱之于韩国，正如武汉之于中国。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; as Wuhan was in China.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '地球青年丨戒毒后他闯荡非洲成酋长，这次向戒毒所捐万只口罩',。
He barged into Africa to become a sheikh after the young people of the planet, this time donated 10 million face masks to rehabilitation center.
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '地球青年丨没学上的中国留学生：被迫休学、中转第三国隔离入境',。
Chinese students: Forcible suspension from school, transit to a third country, and & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '地球青年丨戴口罩被歧视后，我在纽约时代广场举牌：口罩+亚裔≠病毒',。
At Times Square in New York City, I posed for a mask: Mask + Asian Capulet virus & apos; after it was discriminated against.
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="在人间living";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; at human & quot;
