在人间丨湖北的透析病人：骑行30公里，凌晨一点半去医院隔离。
Dialysis patients in the human world: Cycling 30 kilometers, going to the hospital for isolation at 1: 30 a.m.
郝文辉。
Hao Wenhui.
在人间living                      。
Living on earth.
在人间living。
Living on earth.
用冷静的叙述抵抗冰冷 | 凤凰网在人间工作室出品。
Resist cold & # # 124; & # 45; Order of the Phoenix with a sober narrative.
凤凰新闻客户端 凤凰网在人间工作室出品打开凤凰新闻客户端，搜索「在人间」并关注今天，是“世界肾脏病日”。
Phoenix News client-side Phoenix net in the world studio to open Phoenix News clients, search "in the world" and pay attention to today, is "World Kidney Disease Day."
过去的50天，湖北的透析病人经历了生死劫难。
Over the past 50 days, dialysis patients in Hubei Province have endured a life-or-death ordeal.
1月20日，钟南山院士确认新冠病毒“人传人”。
January 20, academician Zhong Nan Shan confirmed the new crown virus "person-to-person."
23日，武汉封城。
Wuhan Seal, 23.
新冠肺炎疫情汹汹，武汉和湖北其他地市先后有多家医院被征用为新冠肺炎定点医院，仅武汉就有55家。
In Wuhan and other cities in Hubei Province, hospitals have been requisitioned as the Xinguan Pneumonia Destination Hospital. Wuhan alone has 55 hospitals.
当更多的床位让位给新冠肺炎患者，那些非新冠病人，尤其是急慢性肾功能衰竭患者和尿毒症病人成了特殊人群。
As more beds give way to new crowns, non-crown patients, especially those with acute and chronic renal failure and uremia, become a special group.
这个特殊人群，在湖北有近35000名。
This special population, in Hubei nearly 35,000 people.
心声已在武汉13年，独自租住在一间10平米的卧室里。
His voice has been in Wuhan for 13 years, rented alone in a 10-square-metre bedroom.
每周三次，雷打不动，她都要乘公交车去附近的中部战区总医院做透析，每次4个小时。
Three times a week, unable to hit the thunder, she had to take a bus to the nearby central theater general hospital for dialysis, each time for four hours.
这是她生活中最重要的事。
It was the most important thing in her life.
她1985年出生在湖北恩施农村，20岁查出肾衰竭，两年后发展为尿毒症。
Born in rural Enshi, Hubei Province, in 1985, she was diagnosed with kidney failure at age 20 and developed uremia two years later.
2007年，一位同乡死刑犯愿意捐献双肾移植给她，两人配型完全成功，爱心人士也为这场即将进行的移植捐助了足够多的款项。
In 2007, a fellow countryman on death row offered to donate a double kidney transplant to her, and the pair were completely successful, with loving people donating enough money for the upcoming transplant.
命运却仿佛跟她开了个玩笑，医生告诉她：即使做了，成功率大概也只有50%。
But fate played a trick on her, and the doctor told her that if she did, the odds were only about 50 percent.
她最终放弃了这个机会，此后一直在武汉，靠透析机维持生命。
She finally gave up the chance and has been living on a dialysis machine since then in Wuhan.
最早，每次透析需要500元左右。
At first, about 500 yuan was needed for each dialysis.
后来政策向好，大部分费用可以报销，每年自己支付1万元。
Later the policy was good, most of the expenses can be reimbursed, the annual self-payment of 10,000 yuan.
她没有工作，没有稳定收入来源，压力很大。
She has no job, no stable source of income and is under great pressure.
但日子，就这样过下来。
But the days passed like this.
她从未想过自己的生活跟新冠肺炎有什么关联。
She never thought her life had anything to do with pneumonia.
1月23日，武汉封城，公共交通停运，在社区帮忙安排车辆之前，心声都是自己骑车去透析，路上时间花得长一些，自己感觉累一些，但住处离医院近，也没什么。
Wuhan, January 23, closure of public transport, before the community to help arrange vehicles, the heart of their own bicycling to dialysis, spend more time on the road, feel tired, but close to the hospital, and nothing.
1月29日，下午两点半，她收到来自病友的一条信息：“医院被征用（给新冠肺炎患者），你们赶快来，不然明天没有透析的地方了！”“当时就慌了，透析就是维持生命，不透就会死。
On January 29, at 2: 30 p.m., she received a message from her sick friend: Hospitals have been requisitioned (to patients with Newcastle Pneumonia), so come quickly, or there will be no dialysis tomorrow.
” 心声背上包就往医院赶。
"His heart beat fast to the hospital.
到医院后，科室主任让他们自行寻找“下家”，如果找不到，医院再想办法帮忙周转。
After the hospital, the section director asked them to find their own "next home," if not, the hospital to help turn over.
病友里有人不服气，质问 “是不是要把我们这批人的命给舍弃掉？” 心声自己也觉得这个群体被忽略了。
One of his sick friends was unconvinced and asked, "Are we going to give up the lives of these people?" The inner voice felt that this group was neglected.
但她不敢把希望寄托在难以确定的现状里，当打听到距离此地15公里的荣军医院仍有透析名额，她和4名肾友便一同骑车到那里争取。
But she was afraid to pin her hopes on an uncertain status quo. When she found out that the Invalids Hospital, 15 kilometers from here, still had dialysis slots, she rode there with four kidney friends to fight for it.
武汉空旷的大街上冷冷清清，5个透析病人戴着口罩，气喘吁吁，骑着共享单车赶路。
Five dialysis patients wearing masks, panting and riding on shared bikes, were in a deserted Wuhan street.
十多年的透析，他们的身体虚弱不堪。
After more than a decade of dialysis, their bodies were weak.
骑不动了，就坐在路边喘气。
Unable to ride, I sat by the roadside panting.
心声顿感凄凉：“这个病本来就让人心灰意冷，加上疫情，我们更加看不到希望了。
Heartbeat desolation: "This disease would have let people down, coupled with the epidemic, we are even less hopeful.
”幸好，往返近30公里的路程没有白跑，荣军医院收留了他们。
Fortunately, the nearly 30-kilometer round trip was not in vain, and the Invalids hospital took them in.
她的很多老年病友则没有这么幸运，他们不用微信，甚至很少用手机，医院被征用的消息，都是第二天去医院透析才知道的。
Many of her geriatric friends were not so lucky; they didn't use microphones, or even mobile phones, and the news that hospitals were requisitioned was dialyzed the next day.
她不知道他们后来去了哪里。
She did not know where they had gone afterwards.
年前，心声买了一盒普通外科口罩，里面有50只。
Five years ago, Hearts bought a box of general surgical masks, which contained 50.
到2月5号，她只剩下十几个，只能维持一周多的时间。
By the fifth of February she had only a dozen or so left, and only a week or more to run.
后来，有公益组织给武汉的透析病人争取了一部分口罩资源，但也只能多维持几天。
Later, a pro bono group secured some mask resources for dialysis patients in Wuhan, but only for a few more days.
心声说，出去透析既是为了保命，又是将自己置于一个危险矛盾的境地：“就怕没有被尿毒症毒死，被病毒给毒死了。
He said that going out for dialysis was not only to save lives, but also to put himself in a dangerous contradiction: "I was afraid not to be poisoned by uremia, poisoned by the virus.
”在那张CT片子和定点医院的诊断证明出来之前，光耀本以为自己没什么事。
"Kuan Yew thought he was fine until the CT scan and the doctor's diagnosis showed.
光耀今年28岁，家住湖北仙桃市某乡镇。
Kuan Yew is 28 years old and lives in a township in Xiantao, Hubei Province.
18岁，他被诊断出患有慢性肾炎，跟随父母在温州打工，此后病情恶化，确诊为尿毒症。
At the age of 18, he was diagnosed with chronic nephritis and worked with his parents in Wenzhou, after which his condition deteriorated and he was diagnosed with uremia.
2013年开始在老家做透析。
Dialysis at home began in 2013.
光耀起病时120斤，开始做透析时170斤，多出来的分量基本上都是水。
When Kuan Yew got sick, he began to do dialysis 170 jin, the extra weight is basically water.
激素类药物在他身上留下了明显的烙印，即使通过透析排出了大量的毒素和水，脸和肚子还是明显异常于身体其他部位。
Hormonal drugs left a distinct mark on his body, and even after dialysis excrete large amounts of toxins and water, the face and stomach were markedly abnormal in other parts of the body.
他后背和胳膊上，一直留着很多类似于“妊娠纹”的痕迹。
He has been wearing many marks on his back and arms that resemble "pregnancy marks."
这些年他一直无法找到合适的工作，回归不到社会，他很绝望。
For years he had been unable to find a suitable job and return to society, and he was in despair.
今年2月11日，医院给透析室病人拍摄CT，光耀被判定为疑似病例，进入仙桃市中医院隔离病房。
On Feb. 11 this year, the hospital took CT images of dialysis room patients, and Kuan Yew was ruled a suspect and admitted to the isolation ward of Xiantao Hospital.
随后的病毒核酸检测结果呈阳性。
The subsequent viral nucleic acid test was positive.
光耀成了“双重病人”。
Kuan Yew became a "double patient."
他没有发烧，没有明显的其他症状，更不清楚是什么时候感染上病毒的。
He did not have a fever, no obvious other symptoms, much less when he was infected with the virus.
他只觉得在28岁的年纪，找不到工作，只靠年迈的父亲打工维持生活，自己的人生很可悲。
He felt miserable at the age of 28, unable to find a job and dependent on his elderly father for a living.
年前，光耀常和朋友一起在宾馆打牌。
Years ago, Kuan Yew used to play cards with his friends at hotels.
1月19号，腊月二十五，他觉得有点儿胸闷，呼吸不畅。
On January 19th, on the 25th of December, he felt a little stuffy in his chest and breathless.
去了医院，拍了片子，医生诊断为“肺炎”，给他开了点儿药。
Go to the hospital, took a picture, the doctor diagnosed as "pneumonia," gave him some medicine.
半个月后，基本上没什么症状了。
Half a month later, there were basically no symptoms.
期间的透析也没有耽搁。
There were no delays in dialysis.
他后来才意识到，早在1月19日自己可能就患上了新冠肺炎。
It was only later that he realized that he might have contracted pneumonia on January 19th.
被感染的地方，可能就是医院透析室。
The site of the infection could be a hospital dialysis room.
■ 光耀所在的隔离病房。
▪ Guangyao's isolation ward.
在仙桃市中医院隔离病房，医院保障三餐和正常的透析治疗。
In the isolation ward of Xiantao Hospital, the hospital guarantees three meals and normal dialysis treatment.
他每天都在屋里接受常规的药物治疗和观察，只有透析和打开水时才能走出病房。
He received routine medication and observation in the house every day and could only leave the ward when dialysis and water were turned on.
电视上不断更新的死亡数字让光耀感到恐慌和焦虑，他连手机游戏都不想玩。
The constantly updated death toll on television has left Kuan Yew in a panic and anxiety that he doesn't even want to play mobile games.
3月9日，已经是他被隔离的第28天。
On 9 March, he was already in isolation for 28 days.
期间陆续有人被治愈出院，光耀慢慢看到了希望。
As people continued to heal and leave the hospital, Kuan Yew slowly saw hope.
想想透析病人里还有人比自己小，就觉得“没什么大不了”，“想也没有用”。
Think of dialysis patients who are younger than themselves and think, "It's no big deal," "It's no use thinking about it."
他已经适应了隔离治疗的日子，并且觉得自己很快就可以痊愈出院了。
He had gotten used to the days of isolation and thought he would soon be out of the hospital.
1月23日下午，霖惠小心翼翼地挂掉了小叔的电话。
On the afternoon of January 23, through whey gingerly hung up the uncle's telephone.
那天，长期咳嗽的小叔给霖惠打来电话，他要去医院，希望侄子开车接送一下。
That day, my long-coughing uncle called Lin Hui. He wanted to go to the hospital. He wanted his nephew to pick him up.
霖惠回绝。
through; refusal;
他不是不顾亲戚情分，只是自己透析7年，身体“扛不住”。
He did not disregard relatives, but his dialysis 7 years, the body "can not carry."
离黄冈不过20分钟城铁的武汉封城，让他格外小心。
Huanggang is only 20 minutes away from the city of Wuhan city iron seal, let him be particularly careful.
几天后，小叔被确诊为“新冠肺炎”，转移到“黄冈小汤山”——大别山区域医疗中心。
A few days later, uncle was diagnosed as "new crown pneumonia", transferred to "Wanggang Xiaotangshan" - Dabie Mountain Regional Medical Center.
霖惠觉得当时的选择是对的，作为抵抗力非常脆弱的透析病人，他庆幸非常时期自己没有被卷入一场医疗资源极其紧张的风波当中。
; through Hui felt that the choice was right at the time, as a very vulnerable dialysis patients, he was glad that he was not involved in a very tight medical resources in the turmoil.
■ CT室门口的医护人员。
▪ Medical personnel at the entrance to CT rooms.
2月15日晚，黄冈市黄州区人民医院通知所有透析病人必须于当天夜里到医院进行集中隔离观察。
On the night of February 15, the Huangzhou District People's Hospital in Huanggang City informed all dialysis patients that they must come to the hospital that night for intensive quarantine observation.
那天晚上，霖惠带了一套洗漱用品和两套衣服，骑着电动车接上病友，跑了近三十公里。
That night, through Whiwei brought a set of toiletries and two sets of clothes, riding an electric car to connect sick friends, running nearly 30 kilometers.
凌晨一点半才到医院。
I arrived at the hospital at half past one.
“外面的形势很紧张，我们就在医院住着，照常透析，感觉还好”。
"The situation outside is very tense, we live in the hospital, as usual dialysis, feeling fine."
然而几天后，霖惠发现有些蹊跷：“一个班次透析的好些病人都不见了，过了两天护士也都不见了。
However, a few days later, through; found some odd: "a shift dialysis of a number of patients are missing, after two days the nurse disappeared.
”原本在透析室工作的11名护士，只剩下了1个。
Of the 11 nurses who were supposed to work in the dialysis room, only one remained.
霖惠没有渠道去核实究竟发生了什么。
through; there is no channel to verify what has happened;
■ 护士把病人的饭盒放置于椅子上。
▪ The nurse places the patient's lunch box on a chair.
透析室护士开始从其他科室借调过来，“赶鸭子上架”。
The dialysis room nurse began to borrow from other departments to "push the ducks onto the shelves."
扎错针流血、透析机器操作不熟练，常常让一些年龄较大的透析病人恼火。
Bleeding needles and an unskillful operation of dialysis machines often irritate older dialysis patients.
很多透析病人本来就贫血，他们对流血这种事格外敏感。
Many dialysis patients, already anaemic, are particularly sensitive to bleeding.
在隔离期间，只要有透析室的人发烧，所有病人都要被重新检测一遍。
During isolation, all patients were retested whenever a dialysis room patient had a fever.
霖惠经历了三批筛查，20来天的时间里，光是肺部CT，就拍摄了3次。
through three batches of screening; in the time of about 20 days; lung CT alone, three times.
34岁的霖惠曾是个生意人，2005年随亲戚到深圳创业，几年后盘下一家店面做餐饮生意。
34-year-old Ju Hui was a businessman, in 2005 with relatives to Shenzhen to start a business, a few years after the next store to do catering business.
直到2013年，因为“久治不愈”的感冒，他才得知自己得了尿毒症。
It was not until 2013 that he learned that he was suffering from uremia because of his "incurable" cold.
他亏本把店面盘了出去，回到老家养病、做透析。
At a loss, he went out of the shop and went back to his hometown to recuperate and have dialysis.
在他看来，每天工作七八个小时、不吃不喝的医护人员是最辛苦的。
In his view, a doctor who worked seven or eight hours a day and did not eat or drink was the hardest.
他希望疫情过去，这些冒着风险照顾病患的白衣天使都平安无事。
He hoped that the outbreak would be over and that the white angels who risked their lives to care for the sick would be safe.
1月23日上午，天盛乘坐地铁2号线来到武汉协和医院做透析。
On the morning of January 23, Tiansheng took the subway line 2 to Wuhan Concorde Hospital for dialysis.
上午10点，武汉公共交通全面停运。
Wuhan public transport was suspended at 10 a.m.
他中午就近吃了顿饱饭，用了一个下午时间才回到藏龙岛的家里。
He ate a good meal at noon, and it took him an afternoon to get home to Tanglong Island.
平时只需不到一个小时的路途，这位41岁的透析患者步行加骑车，用了近6个小时。
The 41-year-old dialysis patient walked and biked for nearly six hours on less than an hour's commute.
■ 天盛所在的透析室。
▪ Tiansheng's dialysis room.
大年三十，天盛收拾好行李，大哥开车将他送到协和医院附近的快捷酒店入住。
In his late thirties, Tiansheng packed up his luggage. Big Brother drove him to a fast-track hotel near Concorde Hospital.
附近的餐馆和超市几乎都关了。
The nearby restaurants and supermarkets are almost closed.
除夕夜的晚餐和大年初一的早餐、午餐，连续三顿，他都在附近唯一的一家便利店解决，吃的豆浆和包子。
For dinner on New Year's Eve and for breakfast and lunch on New Year's Day, he ate soy milk and steamed buns at the only convenience store nearby.
初一晚上，酒店停止营业。
The hotel is closed on the first night of junior year.
无奈之下，天盛只好住进一家民宿，距医院15分钟路程。
Unable to do so, Tiansheng had to live in a residential home, 15 minutes from the hospital.
物业要求不论是什么身份的病人，都不能在所辖小区内居住。
A property requires that no patient, whatever his / her status, should live in the area under his / her jurisdiction.
担心自己“无家可归”，天盛没有告诉民宿老板自己是透析病人，只说是来武汉“办事”的。
Worried about their "homeless," Tiansheng did not tell residential boss himself is dialysis patients, only said to Wuhan "work."
即使，他身上带着提前在医院开具的“健康证明”。
Even so, he was wearing a "health certificate" issued in advance at the hospital.
刚开始的一个礼拜，周边几乎没有吃的东西。
For the first week there was almost no food around.
天盛带了一口简易煮锅，每天下挂面吃。
Tiansheng brought a simple cooker to eat noodles every day.
有一天实在没办法了，他联系到自己在协和医院做医生的同学，找护士领了两份盒饭救急。
One day there was nothing he could do. He contacted his classmate, who was a doctor at Concorde Hospital, and asked the nurse for two boxes of rice to save him.
两份盒饭，他足足吃了两天。
He ate two boxed meals for two days.
小区门口的检查力度越来越严，即使持有民宿居住的临时证件，保安仍然盘问他为什么每隔两天都要出去一次。
Inspections in front of the neighbourhood became more stringent, and security guards questioned him about why he had to go out every two days, even though he held a temporary residence permit.
他每天提心吊胆去医院透析，又小心翼翼地回来。
Every day he went to the hospital for dialysis, and returned cautiously.
一个星期，他体重掉了7斤。
In a week, he lost 7 jin.
■ 民宿老板送的饭。
▪ Dinner given by the owner of a residential building.
2月10日，武汉对新冠患者“应收尽收、应诊尽诊”，天盛觉得自己作为透析病人的身份安全了，才跟老板和物业说明了自己的情况。
On February 10, Wuhan on the new crown patients "receivable, should be consulted," Tiansheng felt that his identity as a dialysis patient is safe, just explained their situation to the boss and the property.
民宿老板每天中午送一顿饭给他，天盛有时候剩一点儿菜，晚上再下点儿面对付一下。
The homeowner gave him a meal at noon, and Tiansheng sometimes had a little food left, and a little more noodle at night.
但自1月25日以来，每天120元的房价，让目前只有低保的天盛有点吃不消。
But since January 25, the price of 120 yuan a day, so that the current only low-cost Tian Sheng a bit too much.
天盛曾有10年的过敏性肾炎史。
Tiansheng had a history of allergic nephritis for 10 years.
自2003年大学本科毕业后，学习设计专业的他曾觅得不错的就业机会。
Since graduating from college in 2003, he has found a good job in design.
但因为身体原因，他后来不得已“辞职休养一年”，直到2015年完全辞去工作。
But for medical reasons, he was forced to "resign for a year" until he resigned completely in 2015.
2016年开始透析。
Dialysis started in 2016.
在家人眼中，他的病也成了难以启齿的“问题”。
In the eyes of his family, his illness also became an unspeakable "problem."
大姐骂他“不该得这个病”、“得病也是你自己的问题”。
Big sister scolded him "should not get this disease", "sick also is your own problem."
他已和姐姐断绝了关系，跟其他家人的往来也越来越少。
He had broken with his sister and had less contact with the rest of his family.
他希望自己能在肾友当中找到合适的“另一半”，两人互相扶持着过后半生。
He hopes to find the right "mate" among his kidney friends, who will support each other for the rest of their lives.
12岁，如芸就得了糖尿病。
When I was 12 years old, I had diabetes.
初中一年级，她只上了一周的课，此后辍学，跟随家人在外工作。
In the first year of junior high school, she attended only one week of classes and then dropped out of school to work with her family.
23岁时，如芸结婚，次年，奇迹般地产下了宝宝。
At the age of 23, such as Yun marriage, the following year, miraculously gave birth to a baby.
怀孕期间，糖尿病引起了肾功能衰竭。
During pregnancy, diabetes causes kidney failure.
她不顾医院的反对，“不想拿掉孩子”，想用自己的生命去换孩子一命。
Despite the hospital's objections, she "did not want to take the child," and wanted to use her own life for the child's life.
在肾内科和妇产科间努力争取后，做了两次透析，并在月底做了剖腹产，生下了孩子。
After an effort between the nephrology department and the obstetrics and gynaecology department, two dialysis sessions were performed and a Caesarean section was performed at the end of the month, giving birth to a child.
在那之后，如芸便开始了长达9年的透析之路。
After that, Braun began a nine-year dialysis process.
她想过自杀，也想过离婚。
She thought about suicide, and she wanted a divorce.
她曾跟爱人说：“反正你还年轻，我就这样了，你把离婚的东西都弄好，我就直接在上面签字。
"She once said to her lover," You're young anyway, and that's all I do. You get all the divorce papers ready, and I'll just sign them.
我也不想再拖累家人。
I don't want to drag my family down.
”他跟她说活着就好。
He told her to live.
逐渐地，如芸觉得自己要为孩子活着，熬过了那一段阴郁的日子。
Gradually, Ruyun felt that he wanted to live for the child, through that gloomy period of time.
■ 病床上的如芸。
▪ Braun on the bed.
如芸的老家在武汉黄陂区。
Huangpi District of Wuhan Huangpi District.
去年11月，她出门买早餐时，不小心摔断了韧带。
Last November, she accidentally broke her ligament while she was out shopping for breakfast.
出院回家后，武汉疫情日益严重，黄陂区乡镇村落管理十分严格。
After returning home, Wuhan Pi District township village management is very strict.
村书记告诉她，如果出去透析，可能就不能回来了。
The village secretary told her she might not be able to return if she went out for dialysis.
此时，如芸身上的长期导管也出现了问题，必须去医院。
At this time, such as Braun's long-term catheter also appeared the problem, must go to the hospital.
无奈之下，丈夫陪同如芸去黄陂区人民医院住院，那天是大年初二。
Unable to accompany her husband to the District People's Hospital of Huangpi District in Huangpi District.
食堂和便利店关门，两人过得十分艰难，每天只吃一顿泡面。
The canteen and the convenience store were closed and the couple had a hard time eating only one meal a day.
医院食堂开放后，每顿饭都需要25块钱，太贵了。
When the hospital canteen opened, each meal cost 25 yuan, which was too expensive.
一份盒饭，两个人推来推去谁都舍不得吃下去。
A box of rice, two people pushed to and fro can not bear to eat.
有位护士拿来了可以煮饭的锅，他们便买了米，加上病友自家种的菜，偷偷在屋里做饭吃。
A nurse brought a pot for cooking, and they bought rice, with their sick friend's own vegetables, and secretly cooked food in the house.
看到同科室的很多老年人每天都吃三顿泡面，如芸也会照顾他们，多做些饭分给大家，一同挺过难关。
See the same section of many elderly people eat three meals a day, such as Yun will also take care of them, more rice to everyone, together to tide over the difficulties.
死亡的阴影也常常在身边划过。
The shadow of death often passes by.
同病房的老人手臂上的动静脉内瘘堵了，医院没有足够的条件疏通，做了临时管。
The arteriovenous internal fistula on the arm of the elderly ward was blocked, and the hospital did not have enough facilities to unclog and take temporary care of it.
可是因为血液粘稠，他每天都吃方便面一类的食品，临时管也堵了。
But because the blood was sticky, he ate instant noodles every day and the temporary tube was blocked.
老人就只能活生生回家等死。
The old man had to go home alive to die.
一块透析的一位阿姨，头一天还跟如芸说话，第二天中午人就过世了。
An aunt on dialysis, who had talked to Yun the first day, died at noon the next day.
有一天，护士告诉她，透析的病人一天走了6个。
One day the nurse told her that dialysis patients walked six times a day.
生命太脆弱了，那天是如芸内心最崩溃的时候。
Life is too fragile, that day is the most collapse of the heart.
医院里每14天要周转一次住院费用。
Hospitalization costs are rotated every 14 days in the hospital.
到目前，光住院费，夫妻俩已经花了近4000元。
So far, the couple has spent nearly 4,000 yuan on hospitalization alone.
得了尿毒症之后，很多人都会投来异样的眼光，还好有家人不离不弃。
After getting uremia, a lot of people will cast strange eyes, good family members do not abandon.
然而丈夫要照顾她，两人都无法工作，家里只能靠年迈的父母撑着。
However, the husband has to take care of her, both are unable to work, the family has to rely on elderly parents to support.
内心深处，如芸觉得很对不起父母。
Deep down, Ruyun felt very sorry for his parents.
余陌一直在武汉光谷三院透析。
Yu Mo has been dialysis in Guanggu Hospital in Wuhan.
封城之后，很长一段时间，她的透析没有受太大影响。
After the closure, her dialysis did not suffer much for a long time.
她原本以为会一直这样下去。
She thought it was going to go on like this.
2月12日，睡前，她收到了病友在微信群里的消息：从2月13日起，光谷三院不再接受病人透析。
On February 12, before going to bed, she received word from her patient in a microphone group that, since February 13, Gwanggu Sanitarium was no longer undergoing patient dialysis.
一夜未眠。
Sleeping all night.
第二天一大早，余陌和病友赶到医院。
Early the next morning, Yu and his ill friend arrived at the hospital.
医务人员正忙着改造透析室，让他们去武汉第三医院首义院区做CT检查，排队报名。
Medical staff are busy changing dialysis room, let them go to Wuhan Third Hospital first courtyard district to do CT examination, queuing up to register.
■ 2月13日上午，余陌和病友们在光谷三院寻求透析帮助。
:: On the morning of February 13, Mr. Yu and his patients sought dialysis assistance from the Guanggu three hospitals.
折腾一天，拍完CT。
One day, CT.
直到2月15日，余陌才和病友拿到了新的透析名额，夜里做了透析，而原本的透析时间应该是前一天上午。
On Feb. 15, Mr. Yu and his patient were given new dialysis places and dialysis at night, which was supposed to be the morning before.
由于医疗资源极度紧张，本该每周3次、每次4小时的透析，现在只能缩减成每周两次、每次3个半小时。
Due to severe strain on medical resources, dialysis, which was supposed to take place three times a week for four hours, has been reduced to three and a half hours twice a week.
透析的日子，她下午5点出发，搭乘病友的汽车往返两个小时去武汉第三医院首义院区，凌晨才能回家。
On dialysis days, she left at 5 p. m., and took her sick friend's car for two hours to the first courtyard district of Wuhan Third Hospital.
为了补贴病友油费，她和另外两个病友每人每次出15块钱充当路费。
To subsidize her sick friend's fuel bills, she and her two other patients each paid $15 for the trip.
在新医院透析的第二次，余陌中途突然感到强烈的不适，自己的血压已经量不出来了，她让护士帮忙回血停止透析。
On her second visit to the new hospital, Ms. Yu suddenly felt so ill that her blood pressure could not be measured. She asked the nurse to help her stop dialysis.
还没来得及跟护士说自己就要晕过去，她便失去了意识。
She lost consciousness before she could tell the nurse that she was going to faint.
醒来后，其他病人都已经走了。
When I woke up, all the other patients had gone.
透析室里只剩下等待自己的同行病友。
All that was left in the dialysis room was a fellow patient waiting for him.
真是九死一生。
It was a deathbed.
透析对身体有大量的损耗。
Dialysis involves a lot of wear and tear.
每天夜里回家之后，强烈的饥饿感促使余陌必须要补充能量，但不充分的透析，也让毒素和水分积累下来难以排出体外。
After coming home every night, the intense hunger makes it necessary to replenish his energy, but inadequate dialysis also makes it difficult for the toxin and water to accumulate in the body.
晚上勉强吃点东西，身体难受又会严重失眠，余陌开始服用安定才能睡得轻松些。
At night, reluctant to eat something, the body will suffer serious insomnia, Yu Mo began to take stability to sleep more relaxed.
她的昼夜作息开始颠倒，每次透析仅两天后，脸上、身体上就出现明显的肿胀。
Her dialysis began to turn upside down, and after only two days of dialysis, her face and body became noticeably swollen.
头痛也开始折磨余陌。
Headaches began to plague him, too.
她觉得，这是个恶性循环。
She felt that it was a vicious circle.
持续下去，高钾、高磷、高甲状旁腺等一系列问题会引起严重的并发症，随时出现生命危险。
Continued, high potassium, high phosphorus, high parathyroid gland and other issues will cause serious complications, life-threatening at any time.
8次透析后，余陌和病友在病房看到了很多空机位。
After 8 dialysis, Yu and his patient saw many empty seats in the ward.
湖北的透析病人，在2020年早春，仿佛经历了一次凛冬。
The dialysis patient in Hubei, in early spring of 2020, seems to have experienced a winter.
（文中所有人物均为化名）更多疫情故事，请点击左下角「阅读原文」。
For more stories about the epidemic, please click "Read the original text" at the bottom left corner.
新型肺炎疫情牵动人心，《在人间》现面向全国网友征稿：（一）疫区影像日记如果你身处疫区请你用照片（视频）和文字记录你所听闻和见到的一切照片不少于3张文字不少于300字投稿方式：微信联系人间君（zairenjianliving）（二）抗击疫情真实故事无论你是一线医护人员、志愿者、确诊或疑似患者及家属、已治愈出院人士等等，如果希望讲述疫情相关经历，请微信联系人间君（zairenjianliving）。
If you are in an epidemic area, please use photos (video) and writing to record all photos you hear and see in no less than 300 words. Whether you are a frontline health care worker, volunteer, confirmed or suspected patient and family member, cured patient or discharged person, please contact the ruler of the world by letter.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
在人间丨湖北的透析病人：骑行30公里，凌晨一点半去医院隔离。
Dialysis patients in the human world: Cycling 30 kilometers, going to the hospital for isolation at 1: 30 a.m.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "在人间living";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; at & quot; among men.
var msg_title = "在人间丨湖北的透析病人：骑行30公里，凌晨一点半去医院隔离";。
var msg _ title = & quot; dialysis patients at the human dialysis site: Ride 30 kilometers, and visit the hospital at 1: 30 a.m. to isolate and quot;;
var msg_desc = "不透析，就会死。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
";。
;; & quot;
title: '在人间丨一个深圳医生的“抗疫”日记：父母至今不知我在一线',。
Ritual: & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '在人间丨华人志愿者：在美国，物资一天比一天难找',。
At the service of society, goods are becoming increasingly difficult to come by and by.
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '在人间丨露宿街头的医院护工：确诊了，这是个好的坏消息',。
Hospital care worker: Yes, it's good news and good news.
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="在人间living";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; at human & quot;
