疫情下的心理危机干预：用电话线联结的救援行动。
Psychological crisis intervention in the context of the epidemic: rescue operations linked by telephone lines.
剥洋葱。
Onion peeling.
剥洋葱people                      。
peel onions.
剥洋葱people。
peel onions.
剥开人物外壳，记录真实可感的生命。
Peel off the character's shell and record the real and palpable life.
新京报深度报道部出品。
Beijing News in-depth coverage of the Department.
。
.
一名求助者的父母均被确诊，分别住在两家医院，她要在医院间来回奔波照料。
One patient, whose parents had been diagnosed and were living in two hospitals, had to travel to and from the hospital.
打通电话时，她刚从病重的父亲那里出来，就在病房楼下，一会儿还要赶到另一家医院陪伴打针的妈妈。
When she called, she had just come out of her sick father, just below the ward, and was about to leave for another hospital to accompany her mother, who had been injections.
她在电话里哭着说，“不知道回来的时候爸爸还在不在。
"I wonder if Dad was there when I got back," she said, weeping over the phone.
”1月30日，武汉协和医院西院12层隔离病房清洁区内，换好装备的北京赴鄂援助医疗队队员。
On January 30, the 12-storey isolation ward in the west hospital of Wuhan Heping Hospital was replaced with equipment for members of the Beijing Aid Medical Team.
图/新京报拍者文 |新京报记者 张惠兰编辑｜滑璇校对|翟永军►本文约6086字，阅读全文约需12分钟近10天来，49岁的杜洺君听过了各种各样的哭：有的人小声啜泣；有的人号啕大哭；有的人讲述自己和家人的故事，讲着讲着便开始哽咽，渐渐说不出话了；有的人似乎语气平静，但她可以想象，对方正在电话另一端静静流泪……杜洺君是湖北省心理咨询师协会（下称“湖北心协”）常务秘书长，一名从业7年的心理咨询师，身在武汉。
2007-9-24 16: 53 2007-11-27 2007-9-24 16: 48 Zhai Wing-jun: About 6086 words in this article, it takes about 12 minutes to read the full text. Some people seem to sob quietly; others burst into tears at the other end of the line.
1月23日，离汉通道关闭的同一天，湖北心协决定开通一条心理援助热线，为武汉市、湖北省乃至全国的民众进行心理干预。
On January 23, the same day the Han Channel was closed, the Hubei Heart Association decided to open a psychological assistance hotline to provide psychological intervention for the people of Wuhan, Hubei Province and even the whole country.
新冠肺炎疫情发生以来，包括北京师范大学心理学部、女性心理咨询平台“幸知在线”等在内的多家心理咨询机构、心理咨询师协会、高校心理学院系纷纷开通援助热线，为因疫情陷入心理危机的人群提供心理援助。
Since the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia, a number of psychological consultation institutions, including the Psychology Department of Beijing Normal University, the Women's Psychological Counselling Platform, the Association of Counsellors, and the College Psychology Faculty have set up help lines to provide psychological assistance to people in psychological crisis due to the outbreak.
1月22日，武汉汉口火车站，佩戴口罩的旅客。
Hankou Railway Station, Wuhan, January 22, passengers wearing masks.
图/新京报拍者1月27日，“国务院应对新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情联防联控工作机制”印发了《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情紧急心理危机干预指导原则》，要求各地防控指挥部统一领导疫情中的心理危机干预工作，提供必要的组织和经费保障。
The State Council issued the Guiding Principles of Emergency Psychological Crisis Intervention for the New Coronavirus Infected Pneumonia, which requires the local prevention and control commands to provide the necessary organizational and financial support for the psychological crisis intervention in the epidemic.
1月28日，北师大心理学部热线开通的第二天，教育部发出通知，要求各省级教育部门积极推广北师大的做法，组建专门队伍，开通心理支持热线和网络辅导服务。
On 28 January, the day after the opening of the Psychology Department's hotline at BNU, the Ministry of Education issued a circular requesting provincial education departments to actively promote the BNU approach, create specialized teams and set up psychological support hotlines and online counselling services.
众多求助者中，既有一线医护，也有新冠病毒感染者及家属，但绝大多数是被疫情所扰的普通民众。
The vast majority of the recipients, ranging from first-line care to those infected with the new crown virus and their families, are ordinary people affected by the outbreak.
热线接通时，他们可能刚刚脱下防护服，可能正奔波在照料亲人的路上，可能已独自隔离多日。
When the hotline is connected, they may have just taken off their protective clothing, may be on their way to care for their loved ones, and may have been isolated for days on end.
他们中的许多人面临着心理咨询师无法解决的现实困境，但同样有许多人，会在挂掉电话前恢复平静，“好，我继续去做我该做的事。
Many of them have real problems that counselors can't solve, but many of them, too, restore calm before hanging up. "OK, I'll go ahead and do what I have to do.
”疫情下的危机干预“幸知在线”创始人潘幸知接到过一名护士的求助。
Pan Xinzhi, founder of the "Nice to know online" crisis intervention under the epidemic, received a call for help from a nurse.
那是1月22日，护士前几天为肺癌患者做清创手术时感染了新冠病毒，那之后便开始恐惧、焦虑。
It was January 22, after nurses operated on lung cancer patients the other day to get the new crown virus, and then they began to fear and worry.
这样的情绪，是许多武汉市一线医护人员的共同状态。
Such emotion is the common condition of many front-line medical personnel in Wuhan.
他们白天忙着救治病人，没空想这些，晚上回家后焦灼感一阵一阵地袭来。
They were too busy with their patients during the day to think about it, and came home at night feeling anxious.
杜洺君也听过一名护士的哭诉，护士说自己下班后会“一场接一场地哭”。
Du Zengjun also heard a nurse cry, nurses said that after work they will "cry after cry."
在杜洺君看来，医护人员专业素养高、心理素质强，不到万不得已不会来电求助。
In Du Zengjun, medical professionals have high professional quality, strong psychological quality, will not have to call for help.
但在来势汹汹的疫情面前，他们的精神负担往往是常人难以想象的，一旦得到喘息的机会，亟须心理危机干预。
But their mental burdens are often unimaginable in the face of a menacing epidemic, and psychological crisis intervention is urgently needed once respite is available.
“和日常心理咨询不同，心理危机干预是指危机事件发生后，对人的心理、行为、健康以及社会恐慌进行非常规的心理学处理。
"Unlike daily psychological counseling, psychological crisis intervention refers to unconventional psychological treatment of psychological, behavioral, health and social panic after a crisis.
”湖北心协专家委员会主任、武汉大学心理学教授戴正清说。
Dai Zhengqing, a professor of psychology at Wuhan University and head of the Hubei Heart Association Expert Committee.
为了保证心理危机干预下的援助效果，很多平台都对接线咨询师进行了严格筛选。
In order to ensure the effectiveness of psychological crisis intervention, many platforms have conducted a rigorous screening of wiring consultants.
“幸知在线”的援助启动后，有500多名志愿者报名参加，不少人持有咨询师资格证或社工证。
Thanks to the online support, more than 500 volunteers signed up, many holding a consultant's certificate or social work card.
但很多人没有危机干预经验。
But many people have no experience of crisis intervention.
所以平台从中选择了几十名咨询师投入援助，并对其他志愿者进行了危机干预的专业培训，以成为后备力量。
As a result, the Platform selected dozens of consultants to assist and trained other volunteers in crisis intervention as a backup.
北师大心理学部热线也要求咨询师有危机干预的经验，而且一线咨询经验要在300小时以上。
The Psychology Department hotline at BNU also requires consultants to have experience in crisis intervention, and more than 300 hours of front-line counselling experience.
杜洺君说，湖北心协派出的咨询师都在40岁以上。
Du Zengjun said that Hubei Xin Association sent consultants are over 40 years old.
“只有你积累了一定的人生阅历，才能支持不同年龄层的求助者，比如没有养过孩子的人，可能没法设身处地地感受一位母亲的焦虑。
"Only with a certain amount of life experience can you support people of all ages, such as those without children, who may not be able to empathize with a mother's anxiety.
”一名湖北心协咨询师，正在接听援助热线。
A Hubei Xin Xin consultant is answering the helpline.
受访者供图被确诊感染的护士向潘幸知求助的当天，咨询师龚星就加入了对这名护士的心理干预。
Consultant Gong Xing joined the psychological intervention on the day the nurse who was diagnosed with the infection approached Pan for help.
龚星说，当时护士的体温已高达39摄氏度，烧到眼睛胀痛。
Gong said the nurse's temperature had reached 39 degrees Celsius, causing her eyes to swell.
“她白天吃不下饭，夜里整晚整晚地睡不着觉。
"She can't eat during the day and can't sleep all night.
她还住在医院的集体宿舍里，为了不让家人担心，也不敢告诉家人，就这么一个人承受着这份巨大的、莫名的恐惧。
She also lives in the collective dormitory of the hospital, in order not to worry about the family, also afraid to tell the family, such a person bears this huge, nameless fear.
”第二天上午，龚星和另一名咨询师、两名平台工作人员建立起一个陪护小组，专门为护士进行心理干预。
The next morning Gong, another consultant and two platform workers set up an escort team to provide psychological intervention for nurses.
“像这样的情况肯定是先（采取）一般化技术。
"In a situation like this, it's definitely a matter of generalizing first.
”龚星解释，她安抚护士的情绪，告诉她任何遭遇类似事情的人都可能恐慌，这是一般人都会有的反应。
Gong explained that she soothed the nurse by telling her that anyone who had been through something like that might panic, a common reaction.
龚星还安慰她，根据现有的信息，危重患者多是中老年人或有基础性疾病的患者，“你不会有太大问题。
Gong also reassured her that according to available information, most of the critically ill patients are elderly or with basic illnesses. "You won't have much trouble.
”那天晚上，护士睡得很安稳。
That night the nurse slept soundly.
在杜洺君看来，龚星的话，体现了此次心理危机干预与普通咨询不一样的地方——咨询师要储备大量疫情知识、要实时关注疫情动态和国家政策，这样才能有效开解求助者。
In Du's view, Gong Xing's words reflect the difference between the psychological crisis intervention and the general counseling - consultants need to store a lot of epidemic knowledge, real-time attention to epidemic dynamics and national policy, so that the effective solution to the client.
接下来的一周，护士因为体温突然升高、与男友争吵，情绪波动了两次。
Over the next week, the nurse had two bouts of bickering with her boyfriend over a sudden rise in body temperature.
龚星等人带着她做冥想，给予及时倾听、劝慰，护士的心理状态越来越稳定。
Gong and others took her into meditation, gave her timely listening and consolation, and the nurses' psychological state became more stable.
“我们都在一起陪着她，她那种孤独的感觉就会淡下去。
"When we're all with her, her loneliness will subside.
”龚星说。
"said Gong.
2月1日，护士告诉龚星，她已基本痊愈，再过三天就能出院了。
On February 1, the nurse told Gong Xing that she was almost healed and would be discharged in three days.
一场没有硝烟的战争杜洺君接听时间最长的一通电话是44分钟，来自武汉某医院的一名呼吸科医生。
The longest telephone call Du took was 44 minutes from a ventilator at a hospital in Wuhan.
那天是除夕夜，杜洺君挂断热线回到饭桌前才几分钟，电话又响了。
It was New Year's Eve, and a few minutes before Du returned to the table, the phone rang again.
话筒里传来一个疲惫的女声，她说自己在呼吸科前线，当天发热门诊大排长龙，已经连续上了9小时班，这会儿刚回家，累到灯都没有开。
A tired female voice from the microphone said she was on the front line of the respiratory department and had been working nine hours a day at a fever clinic.
没等杜洺君发问，女医生就把憋在肚子里的话一股脑倒了出来。
Without waiting for Du to ask, the woman doctor poured out all the pent-up words.
她说因为怕上厕所耽误时间，她几乎一整天不喝水，只有嗓子哑到说不出话时，才打开随身携带的矿泉水瓶抿上两口。
She said that because she was afraid of wasting time in the toilet, she would drink almost all day, only to be speechless before opening the mineral water bottle she was carrying and sipping from it.
连日的高强度工作已经紊乱了她身体机能，每天晚上，她要吃1-3片安定才能入睡。
Days of intense work had disrupted her body, and every night she would eat one or three tablets of stability to fall asleep.
女医生说，自己快退休了，完全可以退居二线，孩子也要求她别去前线。
The doctor said she was retiring and would be able to take a back seat. Her children asked her not to go to the front.
但看着潮水般涌进医院的病人，自己却留在后方，她“做不到”。
But watching the flood of patients into the hospital, but he stayed behind, she "can not do."
除了疲惫，女医生还很焦虑。
In addition to fatigue, the female doctor is anxious.
她说发热病人中不乏潜在的感染者，医护人员被感染的风险很大。
She says there are potential infections among the febrile patients and that health-care workers are at high risk of infection.
因为工作时，戴上护目镜后水蒸气会在眼前弥漫，她没法对着电脑屏幕写病历，只好摘掉；许多老年患者听力不好，她和他们交流时要把嘴巴贴到他们耳边，对方回答时也会凑到她的耳边，飞沫根本无法阻挡。
Many elderly patients are hard of hearing. When she talks to them, she puts her mouth to their ears, and when the other person answers, the foam cannot stop her.
本应4小时一换的防护服，她和同事每人只能领到一套。
She and her colleagues received only one suit of protective clothing, which was supposed to be changed every four hours.
他们会在防护服上写好自己的名字，下班后消毒，晾在通风处，第二天继续穿。
They would write their names on protective clothing, disinfect them after work, hang them in the ventilation area, and continue wearing them the next day.
女医生一边说，杜洺君一边在脑中列出聆听、回应、澄清三个心理干预步骤。
The doctor said Du set out to listen, respond and clarify three psychological intervention steps in his mind.
聆听是倾听求助者对自身处境、情绪、感受、想法的描述；回应是要肯定对方的价值观和信念；澄清是在理性层面上帮咨询者回忆、整理各种可以帮助他的资源。
Listening is about listening to a requester's description of his or her situation, emotions, feelings, and thoughts; responding is about affirming the other person's values and beliefs; and clarifying what is rational about helping a counselor recall and marshal resources that can help him or her.
等女医生倾诉完，杜洺君马上给予回应，肯定了她的责任感，代表所有武汉市民向她和她的同事致敬，说“我们在一起，在不同战线打这场没有硝烟的战争”。
When the woman doctor told him, Du answered back and affirmed her sense of responsibility. On behalf of all the citizens of Wuhan city, he saluted her and her colleagues and said, "We are together and fighting this war without smoke on different fronts."
女医生顿了顿，“对，我们太难了。
"The female doctor paused." Yes, we are too difficult.
”澄清时，杜洺君引导着女医生回忆过往，让她想起那些成功渡过的困境。
To clarify, Du guided the woman doctor through the past, reminding her of the difficulties she had successfully weathered.
慢慢地，她从语气中感到对方平静放松下来，“情绪和状态足够维持目前的工作和生活。
Slowly, she began to feel calm and relaxed. "The mood and state are enough to sustain her current job and life.
”那通电话结束时，杜洺君嘱咐女医生给自己做点吃的，女医生道了谢：“说完我就放松多了，这比吃什么东西都强。
At the end of the call, Du asked the woman to do something for herself, and the woman thanked him.
”但杜洺君知道，挂下电话，再睡几个小时，女医生就会穿着那套反复消毒的一次性防护服重返战场。
But Mr. Du knew that by hanging up the phone and sleeping for a few more hours, the woman would return to the battlefield wearing the sterile disposable protective uniform.
等待她的，将是又一个9小时不喝水、不上厕所的白班。
Waiting for her will be another nine-hour day shift without water or toilets.
电话另一端，咨询师们要对求助者产生同理心、要站在求助者的角度思考问题，每个人承受的精神压力同样不小。
At the other end of the line, the counselors empathize with the caller and think from the perspective of the supplicant, and everyone is just as stressed.
北师大心理学部热线督导蔺秀云说，热线开通前，他们原本计划咨询师每6小时一轮班，但第一天就有咨询师反映强度太大，后调整为每3小时一轮班。
Lin Xiuyun, a hotline supervisor with the psychology department of the university, said that Rush Rush, a consultant who had planned to work on a six-hour shift before the hotline opened, said consultants on the first day reported too much intensity and switched to a three-hour shift.
“幸知在线”的团队督导张砾匀也表示，对于那些大量接触求助者的咨询师，督导们会时时关注，“有任何的情绪和问题，会第一时间干预。
Zhang Cong-yun, a team supervisor at Hello Kitty Online, also said supervisors always pay attention to consultants who come in contact with a large number of clients. "There are any emotions and problems and they will intervene first.
”太多事，一个人承受不来自1月23日热线开通以来，杜洺君发现，一线医护人员并非求助的主要群体。
Too many things, a person from January 23 did not come from the hotline opened, Du Zengjun found that front-line health care workers are not the main groups to turn to.
截至1月28日，她接了150余通电话，约95%的求助者是武汉市、湖北省甚至其他省份的普通市民。
As of January 28, she had answered more than 150 calls, with about 95 percent of the callers being ordinary citizens in Wuhan, Hubei and even other provinces.
1月28日早上7点多，武汉的天刚亮，正在值班的杜洺君接到了一名陌生女士的来电：我受不了了，我快崩溃了。
January 28, more than 7 a.m., Wuhan, the day is bright, duty Du Zengjun received a call from a strange woman: I can not bear, I almost collapse.
才说了两句，女士哭了出来。
Just said a few words, the lady cried out.
这名女士说，1月19日，父亲确诊感染了新冠病毒，由于本身患有糖尿病、高血压，病情危重；几天后，母亲也被确诊，程度较轻。
The woman said her father was diagnosed with the new crown virus on January 19 and was critically ill with diabetes mellitus, high blood pressure and, a few days later, the mother was diagnosed.
父母均已年过七十，分别住在两家医院。
Both parents are over 70 years of age and live in two hospitals.
她是家里的独生女，因为请不到护工，每天要在两家医院间奔波，就快撑不住了。
She was the only child in the family and could not afford to travel between the two hospitals because she did not have a nurse.
接通电话时，她刚从父亲的病房出来，准备去买早饭，就站在病房楼下。
She had just come out of her father's room and was going to get breakfast when she stood downstairs in the ward.
她告诉杜洺君，一会儿帮父亲喂过早饭后，还要赶到另一家医院陪伴打针的妈妈。
She told Mr. Du to help him feed his father after breakfast and to go to another hospital to accompany his mother.
她在电话里哭着说，“不知道回来的时候爸爸还在不在。
"I wonder if Dad was there when I got back," she said, weeping over the phone.
”除了担心至亲的离去，她也为自己感到恐慌。
"In addition to worrying about the departure of her closest relatives, she was terrified of herself.
在病房陪护父亲时，除了口罩，她几乎没有防护，她自己也有孩子，但为了孩子的健康，只能与家人隔离。
While accompanying her father in the ward, she had little protection other than a mask and had children of her own, but had to be separated from her family for the sake of the child's health.
她号啕大哭起来：“万一被感染了，我该怎么办？我的家要完了！”面对这样的情况，杜洺君要知道女士的身边还有谁能帮她，可询问后发现，没有亲友可以提供支持。
He wanted to know who else could help her, but when asked, he found that he had no friends or relatives to support him.
“所以你是家里最重要的人，你得撑住了，才可以更好地照顾他们。
"So you're the most important person in the family, and you have to hold on to it so you can take better care of them.
”说完，杜洺君催促这位女士去吃饭，她要推动这位女士改变行为、调整状态，“因为行为的改变可以支持心理的改善。
"With that, Mr. Du urged the woman to go to dinner. She wanted to push the woman to change her behavior and adjust.
”通话最后，女士逐渐平静下来。
"At last the lady calmed down.
但杜洺君不放心，把女士的电话转给另一名咨询师，以便进行长时间的后续跟踪。
But Du Zengjun is uneasy, transfer the woman's telephone to another consultant, in order to carry out long-term follow-up.
在之后几天的回访中，女士说父亲已经脱离危险，她自己的状态也好多了。
In a few days of follow-up interviews, the woman said her father was out of danger and that she was in better shape.
1月30日，杜洺君在电脑前工作。
January 30, Du Zengjun in front of the computer work.
新京报记者 马骏 摄即便没有家人受到感染，疫情面前，普通人也会恐慌。
Ma Jun, a reporter for the Beijing News, even if no family is infected, ordinary people will panic in the face of the epidemic.
许多人拨通了心理咨询热线，仅仅是因为被疫情带来的恐惧、焦虑、无力感所困扰。
Many people call counseling hotlines simply because of fear, anxiety, and powerlessness caused by the epidemic.
北师大心理学部热线的咨询师接听过一名北漂女孩的电话，女孩说自己1月18日邀请身在武汉的家人来北京玩，之后爸爸和弟弟先后开始咳嗽，她和妈妈也发了高烧。
The girl said she invited her family in Wuhan to visit Beijing on January 18, after which her father and brother started coughing. She and her mother also had a high fever.
去医院看过后，医生认为这一家四口只是普通感冒，不是新冠肺炎。
After going to the hospital, the doctor thought that the family of four was a common cold, not a new crown pneumonia.
但女孩仍然寝食难安，每日自责，认为父母去机场的途中可能接触了新冠病毒感染者。
But the girl still sleeps, daily self-reproach, think parents on the way to the airport may have been exposed to the new crown virus.
北师大心理学部热线督导蔺秀云分析，女孩和家人的身体问题是在应激情况下出现的不适症状，属于正常现象。
Lin Xiuyun, a hotline supervisor with the psychology department of the university, said physical problems for girls and their families were normal symptoms of stress.
咨询师开始引导女孩，让她从自责情绪中解脱出来，转而关注当下能做的有意义的事。
The counselor begins to guide the girl, freeing her from self-reproach and focusing instead on what is meaningful in the moment.
“这样她很快就走出来了。
"So she came out very soon.
”蔺秀云说。
Lin Xiuyun said.
“很多人打来电话时都是一个人，他们跟热线讲的是和亲人不敢讲、不能讲的话。
"A lot of people are just one person on the phone, talking to the hotline about things they don't dare to say or say to their loved ones.
”杜洺君说，许多在武汉工作的外地年轻人打进热线，说自己本想回家探亲，但回不去了。
Many young foreigners working in Wuhan have called the hotline to say they would like to visit their families, but are unable to do so, Du said.
他们不想让家人担心，不愿告诉家人自己的真实处境，“（因为）他们也进不来，我们也出不去。
They don't want to worry their families, they don't want to tell them their real situation, "and they can't get in and we can't get out.
”一名年轻男士在电话里说自己很想哭。
A young man on the phone said he wanted to cry.
杜洺君安慰道“男人也可以哭”，他就真的“哇”地一声哭了出来。
Du Zengjun comforted that "men can also cry," he really "wow" out of a cry.
杜洺君说，这种时刻最让她动容，有时，她也会在电话另一头默默流泪。
Du said that this kind of moment most let her face, sometimes, she will also in the other side of the phone silent tears.
既有心理救援，又有医学救援、经济救援求助者们面临的不仅是负面情绪，还有疫情引发的各种现实问题。
There are both psychological and medical relief, economic rescue people face not only negative emotions, but also the actual problems caused by the epidemic.
后者让咨询师们感到无能为力。
The latter makes counselors feel powerless.
几乎所有平台的咨询师都接到过这样的电话：口罩不够了，物资不够了，床位不够了……一名武汉市民问杜洺君：我家只有一个口罩了，怎么办？杜洺君想到了社区，问社区是否在派发口罩。
Almost all the consultants on the platform have received calls like this: There are not enough masks, not enough supplies, not enough beds... A Wuhan citizen asked Du Zengjun: My family has only one mask, what should I do?
对方说，社区通知一个人只能领一个口罩，“戴一个口罩出去，然后扔掉，再领一个口罩回来，还不如不去。
The other said the community told a person to take only one mask, "go out with a mask, then throw it away and get a mask back," rather than not.
”咸宁市心理咨询师协会咨询师张小可，接到过一名咸宁籍男士的求助。
Zhang Xiaoke, a consultant with the Xianning Association of Psychologists, received a request for help from a Xianning man.
男士说，春节前带着女儿回山西老家时，因为车牌号是咸宁的，很快被周围邻居和社区要求在家隔离。
The man said he took his daughter back to her hometown in Shanxi before the Spring Festival because the license plate number was Xianning.
5岁的女儿发着烧，家里没有口罩，吃的也不多了，他告诉张小可，自己“快崩溃了”。
His 5-year-old daughter, who was feverish, had no face mask and did not eat much. He told Zhang Xiao Ke that he was "close to breaking down."
张小可帮他分析解决这些问题的途径，生活物资方面可以向社区和政府求助，孩子发烧可以到网上寻找在线医生，或请相关部门从中协调。
Zhang can help him to analyze ways to solve these problems, the material aspects of the community and the government can ask for help, children with fever can find online doctors, or the relevant departments to coordinate.
“但我也不确定这种方法能不能奏效，我们只能试着引导他们，最后的结果我们不清楚。
"But I'm not sure it will work, we can only try to guide them," he said.
”张小可说。
"said Zhang Xiaoke.
由于武汉市内公共交通停摆，不少患有基础疾病和精神疾病的市民陷入困境。
Due to the suspension of public transport in Wuhan, many citizens with basic diseases and mental illness are in a difficult situation.
有抑郁症患者打进湖北心协的热线，称自己每隔一两周就要到医院拿处方药，现在药快没了，不知该怎么办；有肿瘤患者向咨询师求助，说要定期到医院化疗，现在去不成了；还有老年患者要定期到医院复查糖尿病，现在复查也断了。
People with depression called the Hubei Heart Association's hotline and said they were going to get prescription drugs every one or two weeks. Now they are running out of medicine. Some patients have gone to a counselor for regular chemotherapy and now they can't go.
遇上这样的情况，杜洺君会尽力为求助者提供帮助，如果对方就诊的医院与湖北心协有合作关系，她就会帮忙把电话转过去。
In such a case, Du would try to help the caller, and if the other side of the hospital has a cooperative relationship with Hubei Heart Association, she would help turn the phone around.
“但更多的时候就是建议他们打110或者120，没有其他办法。
"But more often than not, they're advised to call 110 or 120, and there's no other way.
”1月29日，武汉汉口沿江大道，由于公共交通停运，一名女子边骑车边拖着箱子前行。
On January 29, a woman was towing a suitcase along Wuhan Hankou Avenue as public transport stopped.
图/新京报拍者疫情发生后，武汉市精神卫生中心危机干预热线“心心语”开通了24小时服务。
The crisis intervention hotline of Wuhan Mental Health Center was opened 24 hours after the outbreak of the disease by the Beijing News.
据中心2月1日发布的统计数据，疫情出现以来的热线求助中，“疫情期间的现实问题解决（买药、出行、诊断、就医、食品口罩等的供应）”高居求助民众“关注问题排行榜”榜首。
According to statistics released by the center on February 1, hotlines since the outbreak began, "addressing real-life problems during the epidemic (buying medicines, traveling, diagnosing, seeking medical attention, supplying food masks, etc.)" topped the list of concerns for help.
1月27日，该中心发布了《“新型肺炎”心理危机干预（武汉建议）》（下称《建议》），表示有效心理干预的基础包括：政府疫情通报公开、透明、及时；保障医疗物资和市民生活必需品的需求，保障运行城市功能人员的交通；保障对弱势群体的照顾。
On January 27, the Center issued the Wuhan Proposal for Psychological Crisis Intervention for New Kinds of Pneumonia, stating that effective psychological intervention is based on open, transparent and timely notification of the government epidemic; meeting the needs of medical supplies and basic necessities of life; ensuring transportation for people operating urban functions; and safeguarding the care of vulnerable groups.
《建议》还呼吁，面对“如此重大的社会危机，必须政府先行”。
The recommendations also called for "governments to take the lead" in the face of "such a major social crisis."
“虽然心理危机干预通常针对个体，但效果是致力于群体的。
"Although psychological crisis interventions are usually targeted at individuals, the effects are group-focused.
因为公共卫生事件不是对一个人产生影响，而是对整个社会、整个国家产生影响。
Because public health events do not affect one person, they have an impact on society as a whole and on the country as a whole.
”戴正清说，在这个前提下，理想的心理危机干预应在国家法律政策指导之下，由中央统一部署，既有心理救援，又有医学救援、经济救援。
On this premise, Dai said, the ideal psychological crisis intervention should be under the guidance of state laws and policies and deployed centrally, with psychological, medical and economic assistance.
为PTSD患者做好准备近日，湖北心协的咨询师接到了一个求助电话，一名男士说，丈母娘因为感染新冠病毒住进了重症监护室，妻子陪护母亲时看到有患者不治离世，被白布包裹着抬了出去，还看到苦等床位而不得的病人开始攻击医生。
A man said his mother-in-law had been admitted to the intensive care unit with the new crown virus, and his wife accompanied her mother to see patients dying and being carried out with a white cloth.
后来妻子也被确诊感染了新冠病毒，她极度恐慌，担心自己和母亲会不会遭遇不幸。
Her wife, too, was diagnosed with the new crown virus, and she panicked and worried about what would happen to her and her mother.
这名男士说，妻子最近精神紧张，周围一有人咳嗽，她就会想“是不是那种肺炎又来了”；晚上也会做噩梦，梦里经常出现白天在医院看到的可怕场景。
The man said his wife had recently become so nervous that when someone coughed around her she thought "Is it pneumonia again" and nightmares about the terrible scenes she often sees in the hospital during the day.
在戴正清看来，这名男士的妻子已经表现出了典型的创伤后应激障碍(PTSD)症状。
According to Dai, the man's wife has developed typical symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).
但男士说，妻子目前拒绝接受心理援助，自己非常担心，打电话过来求援。
But the man said his wife, who is now refusing psychological assistance, was very worried and called to ask for help.
和咨询师沟通后，这名男士决定以后要学些心理咨询，安抚妻子的情绪。
After communicating with the counselor, the man decided to take some psychological counseling to calm his wife's mood.
“幸知在线”的心理咨询师张砾匀也察觉到了PTSD的苗头。
Zhang Conjun, an online counselor, also sensed the beginnings of PTSD.
她所在的心理援助群里，一名武汉市民提到隔壁楼有患者被120“拖走了”。
In her psychological support group, a Wuhan resident mentioned that 120 patients had been "dragged away" from the next building.
“她用的词是‘拖走了’，而不是接走、带走等等。
"The word she used was' towed away 'instead of' take away, take away, etc.
可能她现在还无所谓，但这个场景以后可能成为她的创伤场景。
It may not matter to her right now, but it could be a traumatic scene for her later.
”张砾匀说。
"said Zhang Breccia.
张砾匀今年49岁，已在心理咨询一线十几年。
Zhang Breccia is 49 years old and has been in psychological counseling for more than 10 years.
2008年，她参与过汶川地震后的心理援助，2013年又参加了雅安地震的震后咨询。
In 2008, she was involved in post-Wenchuan psychological assistance, and in 2013 participated in Ya'an earthquake post-earthquake counselling.
张砾匀说，当危险来临时，人们关注不到自己深层的心理需求，所以现在还没出现大规模的PTSD人群。
'When danger comes, people don't pay close attention to their underlying psychological needs, so there hasn't been a large-scale PTSD population yet, 'says Mr. Zhang.
她估计，大批的PTSD患者应该在疫情结束后出现，在这之前，那些被替换下来的一线医护可能出现PTSD症状，“（应该在）2月下旬或2月底”。
She estimates that large numbers of PTSD patients should show up after the outbreak, before those who are replaced may develop PTSD symptoms, "[should be] in late February or late February."
1月28日，蔡甸区，环卫工人包言保在空荡荡的街道上执行清扫任务。
Sanitary workers carry out cleaning operations on empty streets in Cai Den district on January 28.
图/新京报拍者戴正清认为，潜在的PTSD人群包括新冠肺炎患者及其家属、医护人员、一线志愿者，乃至抗疫前线的公务人员。
According to Dai Zhengqing, a Beijing News photographer, potential PTSD patients and their families, medical staff, front-line volunteers, and even civil servants at the frontline of the epidemic.
“灾难过后，才是真正的处理大量心理问题的时期。
"It's the real time to deal with a lot of psychological problems after a disaster.
”武汉市精神卫生中心儿童康复部主任汤珺告诉新京报记者，中心已经开始着手准备，在安抚大家当前情绪的同时，培训心理治疗师如何处理灾后可能出现的心理问题。
Tang Jun, director of child rehabilitation at Wuhan Mental Health Center, tells the Beijing News that the center is preparing to train therapists to deal with the psychological problems that may arise after a disaster while soothing the current mood.
杜洺君也想到了这一点。
Du Zengjun also thought of this.
她说，湖北心协已开始准备灾后心理救援，目前正在搜集整理典型案例和问题，为下一阶段的心理援助制作工作指南。
She said Hubei Xin Association has started to prepare for the post-disaster psychological rescue, is currently collating typical cases and problems, for the next phase of psychological assistance work guide.
未来，湖北心协的咨询师也将参与对PTSD群体的援助，“针对每一位求助者的不同情况，有的人可以接受线上咨询，有的人必须在线下（做面对面的咨询）。
In the future, Hubei Xin Association consultants will also be involved in assisting PTSD groups, "for each client, some people can be consulted online, others must be offline (do face-to-face consultations).
”洋葱话题▼你尝试过心理咨询吗？后台回复关键词“洋葱君”，加入读者群推荐阅读肺炎时期的“生门”故事武汉定点医院一床难求，患者居家用衣柜隔离武汉某定点医院被隔离的医生：曾一晚接诊200名患者既然在看，就点一下吧。
Why don't you go to Wuhan Ding Hospital = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = =
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情下的心理危机干预：用电话线联结的救援行动。
Psychological crisis intervention in the context of the epidemic: rescue operations linked by telephone lines.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "剥洋葱people";。
Var nickname = & quot; peeled with onions;;
var msg_title = "疫情下的心理危机干预：用电话线联结的救援行动";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Psychocrisis intervention in an epidemic: AT & quot; with telephone line connections;;
var msg_desc = "护士说自己下班后会“一场接一场地哭”。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; The nurse says she'll "cry after cry" after work.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '肺炎时期的“生门”故事',。
& # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '武汉定点医院一床难求，患者居家用衣柜隔离',。
At Wuhan Dating Hospital, a bed was not available and the patient's home was segregated by wardrobe.
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '武汉某定点医院被隔离的医生：曾一晚接诊200名患者',。
A quarantined doctor at a selected hospital in Wuhan: At least 200 patients were treated at S & amp; A overnight.
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="剥洋葱people";。
var title = & quot; peeled with onion;;
