世卫组织宣布新冠疫情为全球大流行，是否“亡羊补牢”？美国CDC承认或有新冠死者被误统计为流感。
WHO Declares the New Crown Epidemic as a Global Pandemic? The U. S. CDC admits or has a new crown dead erroneously counted as flu.
杨大可。
Yang Dacke.
DeepTech深科技                      。
Deep Technology DeepTech.
DeepTech深科技。
Deep Technology DeepTech.
DeepTech是一家关注新兴科技产业化的全链条内容、服务、数据和投融资平台，致力于构建一个全球科技创新合作网络。
DeepTech is a whole chain of content, services, data, and investment and financing platforms that focus on the industrialization of emerging technologies, and is committed to building a global science, technology, and innovation collaborative network.
。
.
日内瓦时间 3 月 11 日（北京时间今日凌晨），世界卫生组织总干事谭德塞在例行媒体发布会上宣布：新冠肺炎疫情已成为 “全球大流行（pandemic）病。
The outbreak of pneumonia has become a "global pandemic," WHO Director-General Lindsay Tan announced at a regular press conference.
”但同时，他也指出这可能会是历史上首次“可以控制的大流行病”，但这取决于政府、企业、社区、家庭和个人为防控疫情而做出的每一个决定。
But at the same time, he points out that this may be the first "manageable pandemic" in history, but it depends on every decision made by governments, businesses, communities, families and individuals to control the epidemic.
根据 WHO 在 11 日发布的最新数据，除中国外的全球已有超过 110 个国家出现了新冠肺炎感染患者，新增确诊病例 4,596 例，新增死亡病例 258 人。
More than 110 countries outside China have reported new cases of pneumonia, with 4,596 new cases and 258 new deaths, according to the latest figures released by the World Health Organization (WHO) on Tuesday.
目前，全球患者总数已达到 118,326 人。
The total number of patients worldwide now stands at 118,326.
“过去两周，中国境外的新冠肺炎病例增加了十几倍，受影响国家的数量增加了两倍。
"In the past two weeks, the number of new cases of pneumonia outside China has increased by a factor of 10 and the number of affected countries has tripled."
在未来的几天和几周内，世卫组织预计病例数、死亡人数和受影响国家数量将会进一步攀升。
In the coming days and weeks, WHO expects a further increase in the number of cases, deaths and affected countries.
”谭德塞说，“鉴于令人震惊的疫情传播程度及其严重程度，我们深感担忧，也对令人震惊的无所作为程度感到担忧。
"Given the alarming spread and severity of the epidemic, we are deeply concerned and concerned about the alarming levels of inaction," he said.
”“因此，我们评估认为 COVID-19 已具有大流行特征。
"We therefore assess that COVID-19 has acquired pandemic characteristics.
”同时，他还强调，“将本次疫情称为大流行并不会改变世卫组织对此病毒威胁的评估，也不会改变世卫组织正在做的事情，更不会改变各国应该做的事情。
"Calling this pandemic a pandemic will not change WHO's assessment of the threat of the virus, nor will it change what WHO is doing, much less what countries should do," he said.
”图 | 世卫组织总干事谭德塞在 11 日的媒体发布会上（来源：Twitter）此前，就有众多声音对世卫组织迟迟不宣布新冠疫情为 “大流行病” 表示质疑。
WHAT & # 45; & # 45; At a press conference on Tuesday, WHO Director General Lindsay Tanner called into question the WHO's delay in declaring the new crown a "pandemic."
比尔 · 盖茨在 2 月 28 日曾发表言论，认为新冠病毒可能是百年一遇的 “大流行” 疫情；但世卫组织在当时显然对是否使用 “大流行” 来定义新型冠状病毒考虑得更为谨慎。
Bill Gates said on Feb. 28 that the new strain could be a once-in-a-century pandemic, but WHO was clearly more cautious at the time about whether to use a "pandemic" to define the new coronavirus.
因为将一种传染疾病宣布为大流行病，既不会为世卫组织带来更多的支援与帮助，也不会赋予其任何权力。
Declaring an infectious disease a pandemic would neither bring more support and help to the WHO nor empower it.
正如谭德塞在 11 日的发布会上说的：“大流行不是一个可以随意或轻率使用的词语。
"A pandemic is not a word that can be used casually or rashly," he said at an 11-day conference.
这个词语若被误用，会造成不应有的恐慌，或令人误以为抗击已于事无补，只能听天由命，因而导致不必要的痛苦和死亡。
Misuse of the term would cause undue panic or give the false impression that the fight was useless and resigned, leading to unnecessary suffering and death.
”而且参考早期暴发疫情的国家，中国、韩国和新加坡等的疫情均得到了一定程度上的控制，这也是更早时间世卫组织考虑的因素之一。
And referring to countries with early outbreaks, outbreaks in China, South Korea and Singapore have all been contained to some extent, which was one of the factors WHO considered earlier.
“通过果断的早期行动，我们可以减缓病毒的传播速度，防止感染。
"By acting decisively and early, we can slow the spread of the virus and prevent infection.
大多数感染者都会康复。
Most infected people recover.
”谭德塞提醒道，“仅仅关注报告的全球病例总数和已发现确诊病例的国家总数可能会以偏概全。
"The total number of countries focusing only on the total number of reported global cases and the number of confirmed cases detected may be partial," Mr Tanner cautioned.
因为在中国报告的 8 万多病例中，已有超过 70% 的患者康复出院；此外，迄今为止全球 93% 的报告病例只来自 4 个国家。
More than 70 per cent of the reported 80,000 cases in China have been recovered and discharged; furthermore, 93 per cent of the reported cases worldwide have so far come from only four countries.
”图 | 世卫组织全球疫情数据（来源：WHO 官网）那么，新冠肺炎发展至今才宣布“大流行”，世卫组织是否反应速度过慢？在此前的媒体发布会上，世卫组织一直在强调，世界各国应该做好其可能发展为全球流行病的准备。
WHO Global Epidemic Data Then, with the New Crown Pneumonia outbreak announced so far, is WHO responding too slowly? At a previous media conference, WHO had been stressing that the world should be ready for what might turn out to be a global epidemic.
关注的问题并不应该集中于使用什么词来描述疫情，使用 “大流行” 与否，不会干扰疫情的任何一次感染，也不会有助于拯救任何人的生命。
The concern should not focus on what words are used to describe the epidemic, whether a pandemic is used or not, without interfering with any infection of the epidemic or helping to save anyone's life.
现在是所有国家、社区、家庭和个人集中精力做好控制疫情扩散准备的时候。
It is time for all nations, communities, families and individuals to focus on preparing to control the spread of the epidemic.
此外，早在 1 月 30 日宣布的 “国际关注的突发公共卫生事件（PHEIC）” 已经是世卫组织对全球疫情设置的最高警戒级别。
Moreover, the "Public Health Emergency of International Concern" (PHEIC), announced as early as January 30, has become the WHO's top alert for global outbreaks.
对于 “大流行” 的表述与否，并没有相关影响防疫程度的条例。
"Pandemic" for the expression or not, there is no related impact on the degree of vaccination regulations.
世卫组织作为联合国下属的一个专门机构，也是最大的政府间卫生组织，并没有管理各个国家或地区面对疫情如何运行的权力，只能进行号召与建议。
WHO, as a specialized agency of the United Nations and the largest intergovernmental health organization, does not have the authority to manage how individual countries or regions operate in the face of the epidemic, and can only make calls and recommendations.
对于新冠病毒在全球扩散的严重程度，世卫组织在担忧和感到震惊的同时，也表示了对多国领导人应对疫情的不作为程度的不满。
While concerned and alarmed by the extent of the global spread of the new cap virus, WHO has also expressed dissatisfaction with the level of inaction of multinational leaders in responding to the epidemic.
“对一些国家领导人的不作为程度，我们也感到震惊。
"We are also alarmed by the level of inaction of some national leaders.
”谭德塞说，“在应对疫情的过程中，有些国家缺乏能力，有些国家缺乏资源，而有些国家则是缺乏决心。
"In dealing with the epidemic, some countries lack capacity, some lack resources and others lack commitment," he said.
”值得一提的是，这是全球首次因冠状病毒导致的 “大流行” 病。
It is worth mentioning that this is the first time that a coronavirus has caused a pandemic.
在此之前，由冠状病毒导致的 SARS（严重急性呼吸道综合征）与 MERS（中东呼吸综合征）都未被宣布为全球大流行。
Previously, neither SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) nor MERS (Middle East Respiratory Syndrome), caused by coronavirus, had been declared a global pandemic.
其中，当 2003 年 SARS 在中国肆虐时，世卫组织还采用的是当时的 “疫区” 定义。
When SARS raged in China in 2003, WHO also adopted the then-defined "epidemic area."
而在 2005 年，世卫组织实施《国际卫生条例》之后，PHEIC 就成为了全球卫生安全的最高警戒级别。
And in 2005, with the implementation of the WHO International Health Regulations, PHEIC became the highest-alert level for global health security.
图 | 截至 2009 年 7 月 31 日受影响国家和死亡人数地图（来源：WHO）回溯历史上的 “大流行” 病，1918 年到 1919 年间的 “西班牙流感” 就在其中，该疫情在全球范围内导致了 2000 万至 4000 万人丧生。
Figure # 124; Map of affected countries and deaths as at 31 July 2009 (source: WHO) traces the history of "pandemic," including the Spanish flu of 1918 to 1919, which killed between 20 million and 40 million people worldwide.
而时间距离我们最近的，是 2009 年的甲型 H1N1 流感，也是自 2005 年《国际卫生条例》实施以来首起“国际关注的突发公共卫生事件（PHEIC）”。
The closest we have been to H1N1 influenza in 2009, the first "public health emergency of international concern" since the International Health Regulations came into force in 2005.
据美国 CDC 估计，截至 2010 年 3 月中旬，当时的甲型 H1N1 流感疫情疫情导致 5,900 万美国人染病，26.5 万人住院，1.2 万人死亡。
The United States CDC estimated that, as of mid-March 2010, the then influenza A (H1N1) epidemic had affected 59 million Americans, 265,000 hospitalized and 12,000 dead.
此外，全球范围内确诊出甲型 H1N1 流感病例的国家（及地区）的数目为 186 个，出现死亡病例的国家（及地区）有 72 个（数据更新于 2020 年 1 月）。
In addition, the number of countries (and territories) with a global diagnosis of influenza A (H1N1) is 186, and the number of countries (and territories) with deaths is 72 (data updated in January 2020).
在世卫组织宣布甲型流感为大流行病之后，导致了当时大量资源在短时间内都集中投入到疫苗研发之中，但该疾病在后来被证明其实影响有限，这让许多人诟病世卫组织反应 “过激” 了。
Following the WHO's declaration of influenza A as a pandemic, which led to a brief concentration of resources on vaccine development, the disease later proved to be of limited impact, leading many to criticize the WHO's "overreaction."
“2009 年的时候围堵一个病死率比流感还要低的病毒，在某种程度上可说是一个笑话。
"It was a joke in 2009 to contain a virus with a lower death rate than the flu.
”美国对外关系委员会全球健康高级研究员黄严忠对 DeepTech 说，“那一次宣布为大流行让大家人心惶惶，耗费了大量的资源。
"That announcement of a pandemic was terrifying for everyone and a huge drain on resources," Huang Yan-chung, a senior global health researcher at the Council on Foreign Relations, told DeepTech.
特别是在亚洲国家，大量的资源放在围堵政策上面，其实后来发现这些举措实际上是没有太大必要的。
In Asian countries, in particular, substantial resources have been devoted to containment policies, which have since turned out to be virtually unnecessary.
”随后，当时的世卫组织总干事的陈冯富珍博士为回应各种质疑，专门向《英国医学杂志》致信声明，阐释了 “为何宣布 H1N1 为大流行，并介绍了判断指标”。
Dr Margaret Chan, then Director-General of WHO, then wrote a letter to the British Medical Journal explaining "why H1N1 was declared a pandemic and describing its parameters" in response to questions.
具体包括：一种新型病毒感染，大多数人没有免疫力，并且在世界各地出现并传播。
Specifically: a new type of virus that most people do not have immunity to and which occurs and spreads around the world.
相较于普通流感，大流行病在某些方面看起来与之类似，但有其他可能完全不同的特征，比如季节性流感和大流行病均可在全年龄段引起感染，大多数情况下会导致自限性疾病，患者无需治疗即可完全康复。
Pandemic diseases may look similar in some respects to ordinary influenza, but there are other features that may be completely different, such as seasonal influenza and pandemics that can cause infections in all age groups, self-limited diseases in most cases, and full recovery without treatment.
但是，“大流行” 病的重症病例患者的比例可能会更大，并且持续时间不会有季节性，甚至在夏季也有暴发疫情的可能。
However, the proportion of severe cases of "pandemic" disease is likely to be higher and will not be seasonal in duration, with outbreaks even likely in summer.
“实际上大流行这个定义本身是很模糊的，持续的、大规模的、世界范围内的传染病流行，就可以说是大流行。
"In fact, the definition of pandemic itself is very vague. A persistent, large-scale, worldwide epidemic can be described as a pandemic.
这个操作是有一定弹性的。
There is a degree of flexibility in this operation.
”黄严忠对此表示。
Huang said.
因此，在最早暴发疫情的中国以如此规模与力度的措施防止疫情扩散，并取得效果后，简单地批评世卫组织没有将新冠疫情宣布为 “大流行” 病，耽误了其他国家的疫情防控准备，这说法在一定程度上是难以服众的。
So it is hard to argue, in part, that China, where the epidemic first erupted, prevented the spread of the disease with such a scale and intensity, and achieved results by simply criticizing the WHO for not declaring the new outbreak a "pandemic," thereby delaying preparedness for disease control in other countries.
图 | 美国总统特朗普在美国时间 3 月 11 日晚 9 点宣布关于疫情的最新决定（来源：CNN）此前，世卫组织考虑因素还包括重要一点，就是如果宣布大流行，将对全球的经济、政治和社会生活都将带来极大影响。
US President Trump announced his latest decision on the outbreak at 9 p.m. U.S. time (source: CNN). Prior to that, WHO also considered the important point that a pandemic, if announced, would have a dramatic impact on economic, political, and social life around the world.
虽然可能在一定程度上有助于敦促各国政府、有关卫生机构以更严肃、谨慎的态度去应对疫情；但同样可能进一步加剧民众恐慌心理，提高暴力与歧视，或者与社会、经济相关等危机事件出现的风险。
While this may go some way towards urging Governments and relevant health agencies to respond more seriously and cautiously to the epidemic, it can also further exacerbate public fears, increase the risk of violence and discrimination, or of other crisis events related to social and economic factors.
受国际油价影响，美国股市在 3 月 9 日开市便触及熔断，让世人见证了历史性的下跌。
The US stock market broke down in the wake of international oil prices on March 9, marking a historic decline.
而后在 3 月 10 日，股市有所反弹。
Then, on March 10, the stock market rebounded.
但在 3 月 11 日，美股再次重挫，三大股指全线暴跌，道指暴跌超 1400 点陷入技术性熊市，跌幅一度高达 6%；只有医疗板块浮动较小。
But March 11 saw stocks tumble again, with all three indexes plummeting, with the Dow plunging by more than 1,400 points into a technical bear market, down as much as 6%, and only the medical sector floating less.
此前，美国总统特朗普对外曾表示，“疫情对美国经济的影响被夸大了。
Earlier, US President Trump had said that "the impact of the epidemic on the US economy has been exaggerated."
”巴菲特在 3 月 10 日也对媒体表示：冠状病毒和石油市场的局势累加，是对金融市场的“一记组合拳”。
Buffett also told reporters on March 10 that the situation in the coronavirus and the oil market was "a combination of blows" to the financial markets.
不过，目前的情况并没有 2008 年那样可怕。
However, the situation is not as dire as it was in 2008.
在世卫组织宣布新冠疫情为 “大流行” 病之后，特朗普在北京时间今天上午 9 时就美国的新冠肺炎疫情发表讲话。
Trump spoke this morning at 9 a.m. Beijing time about America's new crown pneumonia, following the WHO's declaration of a "pandemic."
他宣布：自本周五凌晨起，美国将暂停未来 30 天内所有来自欧洲的旅行（英国不在该旅行禁令范围内）；同时，将给予小微企业和个人的税务与房贷相关的照顾。
Since early Friday morning, the United States will suspend all travel from Europe for the next 30 days (Britain is not covered by the travel ban), he announced.
此外，他还呼吁国会削减工资税，不过遭到了两党议员的反对。
He also called on Congress to cut payroll taxes, which lawmakers from both parties opposed.
美国首都华盛顿，其市长也在同日宣布华盛顿正式进入紧急状态和公共卫生紧急状态。
The mayor of Washington, D.C., declared a state of emergency and a public health emergency on the same day.
而在同日美国国会众议院举行的有关新冠病毒的听证会。
And on the same day the U. S. House of Representatives held hearings on the new crown virus.
针对美国境内新冠病毒检测试剂严重不足情况，有议员提问：“目前美国一些被认为是死于流感的病例，是否实际上可能死于感染新冠病毒？”美疾控中心主任回应称，目前确实有原本被诊断为患流感、实际却是感染新冠病毒而死亡的情况。
In response to a question from lawmakers about the acute shortage of reagents for testing the new crown virus in the United States, "Are there cases in the United States that are believed to have resulted from influenza and that could actually result from infection with the new crown virus?
与此同时，新冠疫情的影响不断在更多的方面得以展现。
At the same time, the impact of the new crown epidemic continues to unfold in more ways.
美国职业篮球联赛（NBA）由于有球员确诊，已于北京时间 3 月 12 日宣布停止后续一切比赛，至于何时复赛将另行通知。
The NBA announced on March 12 that it would stop all further competitions due to the diagnosis of a player and would be notified when the game would resume.
欧洲方面，意甲联赛已经停摆，西甲、法甲则决定空场（没有球迷）比赛，多场欧洲足球赛事也被推迟。
In Europe, Serie A has been suspended, Spain and France have decided to play empty (no fans), and many European football games have been postponed.
有媒体曝出，欧足联已在着手讨论，是否需要将今年的欧洲杯推迟，因为从目前情况来看，没人能保证欧洲杯在今夏能顺利开幕。
UEFA have been discussing the need to postpone this year's Europa League because, as things stand, there is no guarantee that the tournament will open smoothly this summer.
在宣布 “大流行” 之后，世卫组织总干事对媒体强调：“人们不应该因为新冠疫情变为全球大流行而恐惧。
In the wake of the "pandemic," the WHO Director-General stressed to the media: "People should not be afraid that the new crown epidemic will become a global pandemic.
该术语的出现也并不代表我们就要放弃对抗，并决定与病毒共存下去。
The appearance of the term does not mean that we have to abandon confrontation and decide to live with the virus.
我们说这可能成为大流行病，但不能就这样束手无策，疫情是可以被控制的。
We say it could be a pandemic, but we can't do nothing about it. It can be contained.
”而世卫组织应急方案执行主任 Mike Ryan 在媒体会现场则呼吁：“所有国家都需要立即披露应对新冠疫情的战略。
Mike Ryan, executive director of the WHO Emergency Response Program, called at a media conference: "All countries need to immediately disclose their strategies for dealing with the new crown.
”面对媒体关于 “哪些国家在防控疫情方面做得不够” 的提问，Ryan 表示，他不会说出具体国家名字，“答案都在你们各自心中。
In response to media questions about "which countries are not doing enough to prevent and control the epidemic," Ryan said he would not name specific countries.
”“这不仅仅是一场公共卫生危机，更是一场关乎方方面面的危机，因此所有人都必须参与这场斗争。
"This is not just a public health crisis, it is a crisis of every kind, and everyone must be part of it."
”谭德塞在发布会上强调。
"Tanner stressed at the launch.
他还表示，对所有国家来说，应对措施的基本要素都是一样的：应急响应机制；风险通报和公众参与；发现病例和追踪接触者；公共卫生措施，如注意手部清洁、呼吸道礼仪和保持社交距离；实验室检测；治疗病人和医院做好准备；预防和控制感染；以及全社会和政府上下一致应对。
He also said that the basic elements of the response were the same for all countries: emergency response mechanisms; risk communication and public participation; case detection and contact tracing; public health measures, such as attention to hand cleaning, respiratory etiquette and social distance; laboratory testing; patient and hospital preparedness; prevention and control of infection; and a concerted social and governmental response.
-End-参考：https://twitter.com/WHOhttps://www.who.int/https://www.who.int/redirect-pages/page/novel-coronavirus-(covid-19)-situation-dashboardhttps://www.cnn.com/2020/03/11/politics/coronavirus-trump-foreign-virus/index.htmlhttps://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2020-03-12/trump-says-he-s-suspending-all-travel-from-europe-for-30-days?srnd=premium。
- End-Ref: https: / / twitter.com / WHOhttps: / / www.who.int / credit-pages / page / novel-says-he-s-suspending-all-travel-trace-foreign-virps / index.htmlhttps: / / www.cnn.com / 2020 / 03 / 11-policies / situation-dashboardhttps: / / www.cnn.com / 2020 / 03 / 11 / policies /
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
世卫组织宣布新冠疫情为全球大流行，是否“亡羊补牢”？美国CDC承认或有新冠死者被误统计为流感。
WHO Declares the New Crown Epidemic as a Global Pandemic? The U. S. CDC admits or has a new crown dead erroneously counted as flu.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "科技互联网";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & T & T & T;;
var nickname = "DeepTech深科技";。
var nickname = & quot; DeepTech & quot;;
var msg_title = "世卫组织宣布新冠疫情为全球大流行，是否“亡羊补牢”？美国CDC承认或有新冠死者被误统计为流感";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Did WHO declare its new crown a global pandemic, or was it "late fix?" The U.S. CDC acknowledges or mistakenly counts new deaths as influenza and quot;;?
var msg_desc = "日内瓦时间 3 月 11 日（北京时间今日凌晨），世界卫生组织总干事谭德塞在例行媒体发布会上宣布：新冠肺炎疫";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at a routine press conference on Monday (March 11, Beijing time).
var title ="DeepTech深科技";。
var title = & quot; DeepTech & quot;;
