为家乡医院筹口罩。
Collect face masks for home hospitals.
剥洋葱。
Onion peeling.
剥洋葱people                      。
peel onions.
剥洋葱people。
peel onions.
剥开人物外壳，记录真实可感的生命。
Peel off the character's shell and record the real and palpable life.
新京报深度报道部出品。
Beijing News in-depth coverage of the Department.
。
.
现在，志愿者们已经对各类口罩如数家珍。
Now, volunteers have been stocking up on all kinds of masks.
1月底，一家东莞工厂表示有一批口罩。
At the end of January, a Dongguan factory said it had a batch of masks.
“那是工业级别的N95，不能给医生用。
"That's N95 industrial grade. It's not for doctors.
”程雨拒绝了。
Cheng Yu refused.
“不能让热心被利用，也不能给医院制造麻烦。
"Zeal should not be used or cause trouble in hospitals.
”她说。
'she said.
志愿者把收到的物资送给医院工作人员。
The volunteers gave the materials received to the hospital staff.
受访者供图文 |新京报记者 韩沁珂编辑｜王婧祎校对| 杨许丽►本文约2828字，阅读全文约需5分钟如果不是这次疫情，程雨没想到自己还能加入一个叫做“帮忙买口罩”的微信群。
Interviewees for Beijing News journalist Han Qin Editing: Some 2828 words in this article. It will take about five minutes to read the full text. If it had not been for the outbreak, Cheng did not expect to be able to join a small group of people called "help buy masks."
程雨的家乡是位于湖北省西南部的建始县，隶属于恩施土家族苗族自治州，总人口约50万。
Cheng Yu's hometown is Jianshixian County in southwest Hubei province, which belongs to Enshi Miao Autonomous Prefecture and has a total population of about 500,000.
与频繁见诸报端的武汉、黄冈、孝感等地不同，建始县并未受到外界太多关注。
Unlike Wuhan, Huanggang, filial piety and other places, Jiancheng County has not received much attention from the outside world.
然而，这里的医院同样面临着物资短缺的困境。
Hospitals here, however, also face shortages.
1月19日，程雨从工作地上海返乡，开始帮助家乡的医院进行物资筹集。
On January 19, Cheng returned home from his job in Shanghai and began helping his hometown hospital raise supplies.
在她所在的物资协调群里，14位志愿者分别负责物资对接、信息整理、物流协助、财务协助、文案协助等工作。
In her material coordination group, 14 volunteers were in charge of material docking, information collation, logistics assistance, financial assistance and clerical assistance.
多数成员分散在大江南北，此前并不熟识。
Most of the members are scattered north and south of the Yangtze River.
现在，这个小团队正在为着一个共同的目标高速运转——口罩。
Now, the team is working at a high speed on a common goal - a mask.
“为了帮助家乡的亲人”1月19日，程雨回到建始县时，当地人还没有意识到疫情的严重性，绝大多数人都没有戴口罩。
"To help relatives back home" On January 19, Cheng returned to Jiancheng county without the locals being aware of the severity of the outbreak and most of them not wearing masks.
程雨给自己的父母做工作，“劝他们戴口罩劝了3天”。
Cheng Yu to his parents to do work, "advised them to wear masks advised three days."
疫情的消息一波接一波，1月23日，武汉关闭离汉通道，紧接着，湖北各大医院物资短缺的消息刷屏朋友圈，县里戴口罩的人一下子多了起来。
On January 23, Wuhan closed the Han corridor, followed by the news that major hospitals in Hubei brush screen friends circle, county wearing masks suddenly more.
与此同时，程雨了解到，县人民医院的防护用品也出现了紧缺。
At the same time, Cheng Yu learned that the county's people's hospital protection supplies also appeared in short supply.
有医院的朋友向她诉苦，“说一线医生都快没有N95口罩了，只能戴普通口罩，缺防护服，也缺消毒液。
Some friends of the hospital complained to her, "said the first-line doctors are almost no N95 mask, can only wear ordinary masks, lack of protective clothing, also lack of disinfectant.
”她决定为家乡做点什么。
"She decided to do something for her hometown.
程雨联络了县里几家医院，询问所需物资，再将信息发布到朋友圈，寻找货源、核实资质、筹款采购、联系物流……从未从事过类似工作的她开始摸索着尝试。
Cheng Yu contacted several hospitals in the county to ask about the materials she needed, and then distributed the information to her friends, looking for supplies, verifying qualifications, raising money, contacting logistics... She began to grope for a similar job.
最初，程雨将求助信息发布到朋友圈请朋友们转发时，并没有抱着太高期望。
Initially, Cheng Yu posted help messages to friends and asked them to forward them, without expecting too much.
出乎意料的是，发布没多久，就有一些持有物资的个人和组织表达了捐赠意向。
Unexpectedly, not long after the launch, a number of individuals and organizations with material holdings expressed their intention to donate.
在日本生活的林雅辗转联系到了程雨。
Lin Ya, who lives in Japan, touches on Cheng Yu.
今年39岁的林雅是福建人，已经在日本生活了15年。
Lin, a 39-year-old Fujian, has been living in Japan for 15 years.
在关注到湖北医护人员急需防护用品的消息后，她和140余位在日华人组成了一个防护用品采购团，在日本东京、大阪、新潟、静冈等地的店铺采购口罩等，寄送回国。
Concerned about the news that medical staff in Hubei are in urgent need of protective gear, she and more than 140 Chinese in Japan formed a protective supplies procurement group and sent them back to Japan to buy masks in shops in Tokyo, Osaka, Niigata, Jing Kang, etc.
提到为何要把物资捐给建始县，林雅表示，“武汉市内的医院，国家已经拨了比较多物资，所以我们想往湖北周边县市紧缺的地方送。
"The state has already allocated more materials to hospitals in Wuhan, so we want to send them to places where there is a shortage in the counties around Hubei," said Lin.
”每天，林雅要花大半天时间到各种便利店、药妆店、商场采购口罩，“买防护效果最好的，不考虑价格”。
Every day, Ms. Lin spends most of her half-day shopping for masks in convenience stores, makeup shops and shopping malls.
随着市区里的口罩逐步脱销，她不得不背着刚满一岁的宝宝，骑行一个多小时，去郊区、乡村继续寻找口罩。
As the city's masks petered out, she was forced to ride for more than an hour with her one-year-old baby on her back to rural areas and villages in search of masks.
与买口罩相比，找口罩所花的时间要更多。
Finding a mask takes more time than buying one.
由于货源紧张，难以直接从工厂订货，林雅主要从零售商处采购，因此价格要略贵一些，但很多日本的零售商为了支援武汉，调低了售价，这也让林雅感到格外温暖。
Because of the shortage of supplies and the difficulty of placing orders directly from factories, Lin Ya buys mainly from retailers, so prices are slightly higher, but many Japanese retailers have cut prices in support of Wuhan, which has also warmed Lin.
采购花费了她40多万日元，将近3万人民币，她把185个N95口罩、1084个普通口罩、2000个一次性工作帽、107个护目镜和900个医用手套全都免费捐给了程雨。
The purchase cost her more than 400,000 yen, nearly 30,000 yuan, and she donated 185 N95 masks, 1,084 ordinary masks, 2,000 disposable work caps, 107 goggles and 900 medical gloves to Cheng Yu free of charge.
她14岁的大儿子和9岁的二儿子经常问她，“家里怎么有这么多东西？为什么要做这些？”她的回答和程雨的初衷一致，“为了帮助家乡的亲人。
Her 14-year-old older son and her 9-year-old second son often asked her, "Why are there so many things in the family?" Her reply was consistent with Cheng Yu's original intention, "To help family in her hometown.
”林雅从日本发出的物资，上面贴着“祖国加油”。
"Lin Ya sent from Japan, on top of the" refueling motherland.
受访者供图“都快成半个专家了”近半个月以来，不少认识的不认识的朋友陆续联系程雨，希望加入。
In the past half a month, many unknown friends have been contacting Cheng Yu, hoping to join them.
截至目前，程雨所在的小团队一共有了14位志愿者，来自金融、服装、医美等多个行业。
So far, Cheng Yu's small team of 14 volunteers, from the financial, clothing, medical and other industries.
为了帮助一线医护人员节约时间，志愿者们决定部分承担物资的甄别工作，分辨口罩类型、确定是否可用于临床防护。
To help frontline staff save time, the volunteers decided to take part in the screening of supplies, identify the types of masks, and determine whether they could be used for clinical protection.
“我们尽可能找到每个口罩品牌的经营执照、医疗执照，让医院放心。
"We tried our best to find a license for each mask brand, a medical license, to reassure hospitals.
没有的一律建议他们给普通科室当一次性口罩用。
They are not advised to give general departments when a disposable mask.
”程雨说。
"said Cheng.
由于大家此前普遍对医疗防护用品缺乏了解，只能边干边学，“一直在恶补相关知识，都快成半个专家了。
Because of the general lack of understanding of medical protection supplies, can only learn by doing, "has been the relevant knowledge, almost half an expert.
”程雨笑称。
"Cheng said with a smile.
目前，国产医疗防护用品可以通过国家药品监督管理局的网站进行查询，只要输入名称，就可以查询到相关产品的适用范围和预期用途，但是来自国外的物资，还需要志愿者自行翻译并通过官网对比查询标准。
At present, medical protection products made in China can be searched through the website of the State Administration of Pharmaceutical Administration, and the scope of application and intended use of the products concerned can be found by simply entering the name.
志愿者杨浩是金融从业者，他主要承担信息甄别工作。
Volunteer Yang Hao, a financial practitioner, is primarily responsible for screening information.
接收到物资后，他需要了解防护用品标准、查询质量标准、查验检测报告。
After receiving the goods, he needs to understand the standards of protective equipment, query quality standards, inspection and testing reports.
“从搜索引擎开始，找各种防护用品厂家的网站了解产品分类和应用场景。
"Starting with search engines, look for sites of various protection manufacturers to understand product classification and application scenarios.
”杨浩说，他每天要花几个小时查找各种信息，已经数不清到底翻阅过多少资料。
Mr. Yang says he spends hours a day looking for information and has' never counted 'how much information he reads.
志愿者们使用的防护用品标准对照表。
A standard comparison table of protective equipment used by volunteers.
受访者供图现在，志愿者们已经对各类口罩如数家珍。
Now, volunteers have been stocking up on all kinds of masks.
1月底，一家东莞工厂表示有一批口罩。
At the end of January, a Dongguan factory said it had a batch of masks.
“那是工业级别的N95，不能给医生用。
"That's N95 industrial grade. It's not for doctors.
”程雨拒绝了。
Cheng Yu refused.
该厂家不能提供购买合同是她拒绝的另一个原因。
The manufacturer's failure to provide a purchase contract was another reason for her refusal.
在她看来，不能提供购买合同的物资意味着渠道不明，不排除被倒卖的情况。
In her view, the inability to supply the material for the purchase contract meant that the channel was unclear and did not exclude being resold.
“不能让热心被利用，也不能给医院制造麻烦。
"Zeal should not be used or cause trouble in hospitals.
”她说。
'she said.
捐赠者也在帮忙分担这项工作。
Donors are also helping to share the burden.
每次寄送口罩等物资前，林雅都会专门把各种物资的使用说明拍图发给程雨。
Each time before sending masks and other materials, Lin Ya will be specially to use a variety of materials to send a picture to Cheng Yu.
为了甄别信息，程雨所在的工作群还专门找了3个懂日语的志愿者。
In order to screen information, Cheng Yu's work group also specially found three Japanese-speaking volunteers.
解决一个又一个难题早上7点多起床，到凌晨1点多入睡，除了上厕所，其他时间都在对接各种人和信息……描述起现在的状态，程雨觉得自己每天都在“加班”，“春节也没顾上好好吃一顿饭。
Solving one difficult problem after another Wake up at 7am and go to sleep at 1am. In addition to going to the toilet, he was always connecting with other people and information.
”但让她真正觉得辛苦的是筹措物资过程中遇到的种种困难。
But what made her really hard was the difficulty of raising the supplies.
他们曾向湖北仙桃和其他省市的口罩生产厂家订购口罩，但由于全国需求过大，他们多数时候无功而返。
They ordered masks from manufacturers in Xiantao, Hubei, and other provinces and cities, but most of the time they failed because of high demand across the country.
有厂商甚至在接了他们的订单后，又临时反悔，将物资卖给了其他机构。
Some manufacturers even took their orders, and then temporary remorse, the goods sold to other institutions.
他们只能不断地联系更多的供应商和捐赠者。
They can only keep in touch with more suppliers and donors.
如何将外地的口罩寄回建始县，又是一个新难题。
How to send the field mask back to Jianshixian County is a new challenge.
林雅表示，日本大使馆开通的绿色通道可以把包裹寄到武汉，然而包裹到达武汉后就无法继续转运了。
Lin said the Embassy of Japan opened a green channel to send the package to Wuhan, but the package arrived in Wuhan, can no longer continue transshipment.
部分常用的国际快递也因为寄到湖北的订单太多而不再接受新包裹订单。
Some commonly used international couriers no longer accept new parcel orders because of the heavy orders they send to Hubei.
最终她不得不选择用顺丰将口罩寄到上海，再从上海转寄到建始县。
Eventually, she had to choose Shunfeng to send the mask to Shanghai, and then from Shanghai forward to Jianshixian County.
历经五天，林雅捐赠的第一批1000枚日本医用级别口罩于2月2日送达建始县。
The first batch of 1,000 Japanese medical-grade masks donated by Lin Ya arrived in Jianshi Prefecture on February 2 after five days.
在物资到达的2个小时内，志愿者已冒雨将口罩交付建始县人民医院和建始县中医院。
Within two hours of the arrival of the supplies, volunteers rushed through the rain to deliver the masks to the People's Hospital in Jianshixian County and the Jianxi County Traditional Chinese Hospital.
志愿者们还在努力开辟更多的转运通道。
Volunteers are also trying to open up more transit routes.
他们在北京、上海、杭州和重庆建立起转运点，物资可以通过这些地方转运回建始。
They set up trans-shipment points in Beijing, Shanghai, Hangzhou and Chongqing, through which supplies can be trans-shipped back to where they began.
快，是运送方式选择过程中唯一的标准。
Come on, it's the only standard in the shipping process.
“道路都封闭了，运输难度确实很大。
"The roads are closed and the transportation is really difficult.
” 杨浩表示，他们正在尝试把大包裹拆散分开寄，或者将物资寄到重庆，再用车运回来。
Mr Yang said they were trying to separate the parcels or send them to Chongqing for onward transportation.
建始县与重庆相邻，“我们在尝试两边各出一辆车，在交界处交接物资。
"We are trying to get a car from each side and hand over the goods at the border.
”这个过程中，多方展现的善意与热情是支撑程雨们继续下去的动力。
In the process, the goodwill and enthusiasm shown by many was the driving force behind Cheng's continued success.
林雅在东京的家是日本爱心采购团的“集散地”，各地的成员都会把买到的口罩集中寄送到林雅家暂时寄存。
Lin Ya's home in Tokyo is the "distribution center" of the Japanese love purchasing group, and members from all over the country will send their masks to the Lin Ya family for temporary storage.
随着包裹的增多，她不得不把自家地下室腾出来，专门存放口罩。
As the number of parcels increased, she had to vacate her basement to store masks.
林雅家中堆放着的医疗防护物资。
The medical supplies piled up at Linya's house.
受访者供图志愿者们还在源源不断地接收各方捐款。
The volunteers also continue to receive donations from various sources.
截至目前，他们共收到73人捐款，合计捐款数额超过5万元。
To date, they have received 73 donations, totalling over $50,000.
在筹款群里，志愿者们公布了捐款明细，以及每一笔采购的时间、产品、数量、金额和运单号，供外界查询。
In the fund-raising group, volunteers disclose a breakdown of their donations and the time, product, quantity, amount and waybill number of each purchase for external consultation.
所筹款项全部用于采购符合标准的医疗防护用品物资。
All funds raised were for the procurement of medical protection supplies in accordance with standard criteria.
他们的努力在一定程度上缓解了医院物资紧缺的状况。
Their efforts have to some extent alleviated the shortage of hospital materials.
2月2日，建始县一家医院负责采购的工作人员向新京报记者表示，目前，医院普通口罩和消毒液的紧缺情况略有好转，“县抗疫指挥部和爱心人士都提供了部分物资，在帮忙对接物资的过程中志愿者们真的付出了很多。
On February 2, procurement staff at a hospital in Jianshi County told the Beijing News that the shortage of common face masks and disinfectants in hospitals had improved slightly.
”2月1日凌晨3点，劳累了一天的程雨终于躺在了床上。
At 3 a.m. on February 1, Cheng, who had been working all day, finally lay down in bed.
她在朋友圈里发了一段话，“我知道自己渺小，也知道自己能力有限，不过，力所能及不是一件很欣慰的事吗？”洋葱话题▼你想为湖北做些什么？后台回复关键词“洋葱君”，加入读者群推荐阅读肺炎时期的“生门”故事武汉定点医院一床难求，患者居家用衣柜隔离武汉某定点医院被隔离的医生：曾一晚接诊200名患者既然在看，就点一下吧。
I know I'm small and I know I'm limited, but what do you think you can do about it.Why don't you tell us something about Wuhan Dingmen Hospital in Wuhan We'll have a wardrobe to isolate the doctors at a selected Wuhan hospital.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
为家乡医院筹口罩。
Collect face masks for home hospitals.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "剥洋葱people";。
Var nickname = & quot; peeled with onions;;
var msg_title = "为家乡医院筹口罩";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; for its home hospital.
var msg_desc = "他们的努力在一定程度上缓解了医院物资紧缺的状况。
var msg _ desc = & quot; their efforts have somewhat alleviated the hospital's material shortage.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '肺炎时期的“生门”故事',。
& # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '武汉定点医院一床难求，患者居家用衣柜隔离',。
At Wuhan Dating Hospital, a bed was not available and the patient's home was segregated by wardrobe.
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '武汉某定点医院被隔离的医生：曾一晚接诊200名患者',。
A quarantined doctor at a selected hospital in Wuhan: At least 200 patients were treated at S & amp; A overnight.
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="剥洋葱people";。
var title = & quot; peeled with onion;;
