12楼一切如常。
Everything's fine on the 12th floor.
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
2月18日，武汉大学人民医院东院区，赶来支援的新疆医科大学第二附属医院肾病血透中心护士长窦丽。
February 18, Wuhan University People's Hospital East District, came to support the Xinjiang Medical University Second Affiliated Hospital Nephropathy Center Nurse Du Li.
中青报·中青网记者 李隽辉/摄本文约4799字预计阅读时间12分钟作者 | 中青报·中青网记者 耿学清编辑 | 陈卓12楼没什么特殊的。
Zhongqing News Zhongqing reporter Li meaningful / photo This article is about 4799 words expected to read for 12 minutes. & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
在武汉大学人民医院东院区5号住院楼里，这只是普通的一层。
It's just the first floor in hospital building No. 5 of the East Campus of Wuhan University People's Hospital.
那幢70多米高的灰白色住院楼有近千扇窗户，12楼的窗户就淹没在其中。
The 70-or-so-tall gray-and-white infirmary has nearly a thousand windows, which drown on the 12th floor.
看不出来它们和其他窗户有什么区别，尤其是当这些窗户的窗帘都被摘下来之后。
There was no difference between them and the other windows, especially after the curtains had been removed.
这是进入“战时”的一种信号——新冠肺炎的患者就住在这些窗户后面，病毒有可能会粘在窗帘上，对于医护人员那是很危险的。
This is a sign of a "war" - people with pneumonia live behind these windows, and the virus may stick to the curtains, which can be dangerous for paramedics.
1月25日，武大人民医院东院区被确定为收治新冠肺炎患者的定点医院，5天后设计改造完成启用，临时准备的400张病床迅速收满。
On 25 January, the East Campus of the WU People's Hospital was designated as the designated hospital for patients with pneumonia. Five days later, the design was completed and 400 temporary beds were quickly filled.
不久，这里又接到“3个小时内完成病区准备、转移轻症患者，随时准备接收重症患者”的命令，400张病床，变成了800张。
Soon after, orders were received to "complete the preparation of the area within three hours, transfer patients with mild illness, ready to receive patients in serious condition," 400 beds, into 800.
这里几乎是抗击疫情的最前沿阵地。
This is almost the front line in the fight against the epidemic.
武大人民医院副院长、东院区疫情防控指挥长张丙宏说，收治患者那天全院“战斗了10多个小时，冒着雨，都被淋透了”。
The hospital "fought for more than 10 hours that day and was drenched in the rain," said Zhang Pinghong, vice-dean of Wudang People's Hospital and director of epidemic prevention and control in the eastern courtyard.
既要培训医护、改造病房、接收病人，又要协调物资、保障后勤供应，张丙宏连续30多个小时没睡觉，接了300多个电话，直到手机电量耗尽，“人也撑不住了”。
He spent more than 30 hours without sleep and took more than 300 calls until his cell phone ran out of electricity. "I can't hold on to anyone," he said.
2月18日，武汉大学人民医院东院区，重症病房走廊，两名护士进入病房前检查配药。
February 18, Wuhan University People's Hospital East courtyard, intensive care ward corridor, two nurses into the ward before checking prescription.
中青报·中青网记者 李隽辉/摄来自全国的12支医疗队到这里支援，有新疆的、陕西的、山东的、上海的……上海的医生来支援时，换防会议上，一位副院长说，过去10多天，每天最多睡2个小时，“如果我说话有停顿，或是思维混乱，请大家谅解。
When doctors from Xinjiang, Shaanxi, Shandong and Shanghai came to support us, a vice-dean said at the change-over-defense meeting that I could sleep for up to two hours a day for more than 10 days.
”最终，上海的医疗队接管了5号楼的11楼和13楼，有队员问，“12楼呢？”他们被告知，12楼的医护人员不愿撤出来。
Eventually, the Shanghai medical team took over the 11th and 13th floors of Building 5 and one of the team members asked, "What about the 12th floor?" They were told that the medical staff on the 12th floor would not evacuate.
这里仍由人民医院的医护人员坚守，和以前一样，没什么特殊的。
This place is still held by the medical staff of the People's Hospital, as before, nothing special.
1很多人都是后来才知道，在那段时间，12楼是为数不多医护人员“整建制保留下来”的病区。
Many people later learned that during that time, the 12th floor was a sick area where a small number of medical staff were "kept in place."
刚开始的那几天，7位医生和12位护士维持着12楼的运转。
For the first few days, seven doctors and 12 nurses operated on the 12th floor.
他们中很多人都已经习惯了在作为心血管病区的12楼工作，这是他们第一次正式穿上防护服戴上护目镜。
Many of them are used to working on the 12th floor, which is a cardiovascular zone. This is the first time they have been formally wearing protective clothing and goggles.
为保证防护密闭性，护目镜和口罩边缘要紧紧压实，再用胶带粘紧。
To ensure protection, the goggles and mask edges should be tightly compacted, and then taped tightly.
时间长了，人的脸颊、脖颈被压出水泡，水泡破裂以后会出现溃疡。
Over time, the person's cheek, neck is pressed bubble, bubble breaks after can appear ulcer.
刚开始接诊病人的时候，人手不足，护士们每天穿着防护服在病患区工作6到8个小时。
When patients were first treated, they were understaffed and nurses wore protective clothing for six to eight hours a day in the patient areas.
谁撑不住，谁先撤下休息，换其他人再上。
Who can not support, who first take a rest, for others to go on.
摘护目镜时蹭到溃疡处，护士们嘴里会不自觉疼得“嘶”一声。
When you rub your goggles against the ulcer, the nurses will automatically "hisse" in their mouths.
病患区的过道30多米长。
The hallway in the patient area is more than 30 metres long.
穿上防护服后，走在这里“像是在长跑”。
After wearing protective clothing, walking here "looks like a long run."
有人“平静地站着就已经很喘了”。
Some people are "standing still and breathing hard."
还有人护目镜起雾，水珠遮蔽视线，只能靠折射进来的光，凭感觉摸索着在病区走。
Still have human goggles fogging, water droplets cover the line of sight, can only rely on refraction of light, feeling groping in the sick area.
2月18日，武汉大学人民医院东院区，即将进入污染区的护士们在互相帮忙，穿上隔离衣。
Nurses coming into the contaminated area of Wuhan University's People's Hospital East Campus helped each other put on protective clothing on Feb. 18.
中青报·中青网记者 李隽辉/摄一直在12楼工作的心内科主任医师余锂镭也是第一次穿上防护服。
Zhongqing News Zhongqing net reporter Li meaningful / She has been working on the 12th floor of the cardiologist Yu Li radium also put on protective clothing for the first time.
他的父亲是呼吸科医生，2003年在湖北孝感战斗在“非典”防控一线。
His father was a respiratory doctor, in 2003 in Hubei filial piety fighting in the "SARS" prevention and control line.
那时印象里，穿上防护服的爸爸像宇航员一样，如今他第一次知道，“那个衣服穿起来还是很难受的”。
The impression was that Dad in protective gear was like an astronaut, and now he knew for the first time that "that dress is still uncomfortable."
本来，余锂镭不想和父亲学一个专业，才选了心血管内科。
Originally, Yu Li radium did not want to learn a profession with his father, just chose cardiovascular medicine.
但他没想到，新的疫情来了，他又干起了和父亲一样的工作。
However, he did not expect that the new epidemic came, he began to do the same work as his father.
包括余锂镭在内，12楼的一切都必须迅速适应这样的变化。
Everything on the 12th floor, including lithium radium, had to adapt quickly to such changes.
1月25日，医院被确定为收治新冠肺炎患者定点医院。
On 25 January, the hospital was identified as the designated hospital for the treatment of patients with pneumonia.
那天是大年初一，随后的改造中，最难的是工人紧缺。
It was New Year's Day and the hardest part of the subsequent transformation was the shortage of workers.
张丙宏说，“开到6000元一个工都找不到人”，最终医院向火神山医院工地“借人”，派车把工人接来，才按时改造完成。
Zhang said, "to 6000 yuan a job can not find a person," the hospital finally to the fire god mountain hospital site "borrower," sent a car to pick up the workers, just on time to complete the renovation.
1月30日，12楼通过国家卫健委有关专家的验收，成为这个定点医院的第21病区。
January 30, the 12th floor through the acceptance of the relevant experts of the National Health Care Commission, the designated hospital 21.
当天，这里就收到了病人将到的通知，但这时整个12楼只有两套防护服。
On the same day, the patient was notified of the arrival of the patient, but only two sets of protective clothing were available on the 12th floor.
余锂镭和护士长刘炜要求其他同事全部待在清洁区，他俩穿上那两套防护服，互相检查密闭性没问题，转身走进缓冲区。
Yu and Liu Wei, the head nurse and Li Li, asked their colleagues to stay in the clean area. They put on the two suits, checked each other for confidentiality and turned to walk into the buffer zone.
2即使现在，12楼的条件也算不上优良。
Even now, the conditions on the 12th floor are not very good.
主任办公室变成了更衣室和冲洗室，临床教室变成了餐厅。
The director's office was turned into a dressing room and a washing room, and the clinic into a dining room.
病区对过的楼道，一张医用屏风撑开，隔出了一间“放衣室”——医护人员从家里或宿舍来上班，会在这里放置外套和鞋子。
In the hallway across the area, a medical screen pops up, leaving a "locker room" where paramedics come to work from their homes or dormitories, where coats and shoes are placed.
四五个废弃纸箱横着码起来，就是一个“鞋架”。
Four or five discarded cartons are stacked horizontally to form a shoe rack.
隔离污染区和清洁区的一扇门很难固定——那是安装时最后装的一扇门，新冠肺炎病人快到了，装修工人来不及装门锁和把手就跑了。
The door that separates the polluted area from the clean zone is difficult to fix - it was the last door to install, and the Crowne Pneumonia patient was fast approaching, and the decorator ran away without having time to install the lock and handle.
留下这扇门和12楼医护人员一起，钉在这里一个多月。
Leave this door here with the 12th floor paramedics, nailed here for more than a month.
“这是过年期间现有条件下我们能做到的最好的。
"It's the best we can do under the prevailing conditions during the Spring Festival.
”余锂镭说，“有点简陋，但这个战斗堡垒，能最大限度保证医护人员安全。
"It's a little rough, but this fortress is the best way to keep health care workers safe," Yu said.
”截至3月9日，一共有75位重症病人陆续走进12楼，23人已从这里治愈出院，11人转为轻症后转院。
As of March 9, a total of 75 critically ill patients had entered the 12th floor, 23 had been cured and discharged from the hospital and 11 had been transferred to hospital after mild illness.
刘炜说，病人刚到医院大都很恐惧，“就像游泳快淹死的人抓了根救命稻草，真就是那个感觉”。
'Most people are frightened when they arrive at the hospital, 'like a drowning man grabbing at a straw, that's what it feels like,' says Liu Wei.
有人被问病程的时候声音都在发抖，还有人恐惧到不吃饭，甚至血氧饱和度低了上氧气面罩时，有人拒绝呼吸、憋气。
Some people tremble when asked about the course, others fear not to eat, and even when oxygen masks are lowered in blood oxygen saturation, some refuse to breathe and suffocate.
在12楼，护士们首先要做的就是安慰。
On the 12th floor, the first thing nurses need to do is comfort.
查房时，他们总是先送上祝福语。
They always send a congratulatory message when they go through the house.
祝福语印在A4纸上，余锂镭特地选了那种看起来像手写的字体，一共有20套。
The message was printed on A4 paper, and lithium radium had been chosen specifically for what looked like handwritten script, in 20 sets.
曾月兰收到过这种祝福。
Zeng Yuelan has received such blessings.
已经70多岁的她是2月1日被确诊为新冠肺炎的。
She is in her 70s and was diagnosed with pneumonia on February 1.
在此之前，她只在1月19日，去了一趟菜市场，回来后高烧超过38℃。
Prior to that, she had gone to the Halles market only on 19 January and returned with a fever of more than 38 degrees Celsius.
大年初一那天，她去了武汉市第七人民医院。
On New Year's Day, she went to Wuhan Seventh People's Hospital.
那个时候医院要排很长队才能进去，进去后又要排一个多小时队挂号，然后再花一个多小时排队量体温，等走到通往医生门诊的走廊，那里已经水泄不通。
There were long queues to get in, more than an hour to register, and then more than an hour to line up to get to the doctor's clinic, which was already full.
她担心在门诊反而容易被感染，就回了家。
Fearing that she would be vulnerable to infection at the clinic, she went home.
在家等了6天，高烧一直不退，1月31日，她只好又去武汉大学人民医院，第二天拿到了确诊的结果。
After waiting at home for six days with a high fever, she went to Wuhan University People's Hospital on January 31 and got the results of the diagnosis the next day.
当时人民医院东院刚腾出来在收治病人。
The East Hospital of the People's Hospital was just vacated.
到现在曾月兰都记得医生跟她说，你们赶快过来吧，我们在这等着你们。
Zeng Yuelan still remember the doctor told her, you hurry to come here, we are waiting for you here.
刘炜是她在医院见到的第一个人。
Liu Wei was the first person she saw in the hospital.
刘炜告诉她，“阿姨你就想象你得了一场重感冒，一点也不要紧张，你一定要开朗，要配合医生治疗，你的病会好的。
"Auntie, you just imagine you have a bad cold, don't be nervous, you must be cheerful, to cooperate with the doctor, your illness will be fine.
”后来，这种祝福送出去得越来越多。
"Later, more and more such blessings were given away.
2月5日，人民医院东院被确定为新冠肺炎重症患者定点救治医院，当天要将床位扩充到800张。
On 5 February, the East Hospital of the People's Hospital was designated as the designated hospital for severe cases of Newcastle Pneumonia, to be expanded to 800 beds on the same day.
刘炜挨个病房跟入住的病人打招呼，刚开始还担心入住的病人有意见，没想到大家都很支持。
Liu Wei each ward with check-in patients say hello, just worried about check-in patients have views, did not expect that we are very supportive.
“对于重症病人来说，一张病床就是一条命。
"For the seriously ill, a bed is a life.
”曾月兰说，“不能我现在住进来，就不管那些住不进来的人，我能想象他们多艰难。
"I can't live here right now, no matter how difficult it is for those who can't come in," Zeng said.
”12楼开始变得拥挤了。
The 12th floor began to get crowded.
那天晚上直到次日1点多，曾月兰听到病房外很多人在跑，在喊，有搬仪器的声音，挪动床铺的声音，熟悉的医生、护士的声音，也有没听到过的声音。
That night until more than 1: 00 the next day, Zeng Yuelan heard people outside the ward running, shouting, moving the instrument, moving the sound of the bed, familiar doctors, nurses, and unheard voices.
这是12楼最累的一天。
It's the weariest day on the 12th floor.
所有的医生、护士全部紧急上岗，穿着防护服把收起来的床和仪器再搬回病房。
All the doctors and nurses were on emergency duty, wearing protective clothing to put the bed and equipment back to the ward.
16个病房每间加了两张床。
Two additional beds were provided in each of the 16 wards.
当天，人民医院东院一共完成268位新冠肺炎重症患者的收治。
On the same day, the East Hospital of the People's Hospital completed the admission of 268 patients with severe pneumonia.
与此同时，各地的医疗队正在陆续向武汉驰援。
Meanwhile, medical teams from all over the world are helping Wuhan.
曾月兰在新闻上看到，医院要被来支援的医疗队接管。
Zeng Yuelan saw on the news that the hospital was to be taken over by a support medical team.
曾月兰担心12楼的医生护士会不会被调走，她就在护士查房时悄悄打听，“怎么样，你们走不走？”刘炜回答，“我们不走，你们放心吧，我不撤，余主任也不撤。
Zeng Yuelan was worried that the doctors and nurses on the 12th floor would not be transferred. She asked the nurse in a whisper, "Well, will you go away?" Liu Wei replied.
我们的病人，我们要负责到底。
Our patients, we are responsible to the end.
”3余锂镭说，大家留下来其实倒不是刻意的，“我们可能刚好有个整建制在这里。
'The fact that we stayed was not intentional, 'said Mr. Yu.' We may have an entire organization here.
”而且，按照余锂镭的说法，一个医护团队治疗这么多患者，对这些患者最熟悉，“如果一直在我们手上，更有利于他们康复出院。
And, according to radium residual lithium, a health-care team treating so many patients, who were the most familiar with them, "would have done better if they had been in our hands all along.
”随着12支医疗队1600人入驻人民医院东院，医院其他科室的医护合并过来支援12楼，加上新疆支援的人，12楼有了49位护士、17位医生。
With 1,600 medical teams in the eastern courtyard of the People's Hospital, medical staff from other sections of the hospital merged to support the 12th floor, with 49 nurses and 17 doctors on the 12th floor.
来自新疆医科大学医疗队的窦丽2月10日进入12楼。
Du Li, from the Xinjiang Medical University Medical Team, entered the 12th floor on February 10.
2003年“非典”时期，窦丽也在护理一线。
In 2003 "SARS" period, Dou Li also was nursing the front line.
护士们脸上的压疮让她想起当年的自己和同事，“压出泡又爆掉，然后又好了又被压出新泡。
The pressure sores on the nurses' faces reminded her of herself and her co-workers, "squeezing out bubbles and exploding, then getting better and being crushed."
”姑娘们最喜欢创可贴和好心人捐助的减压贴，可以减轻一些压迫，窦丽所在的医院从新疆寄来一批减压贴和黏胶剥离喷剂。
Girls' favorite stress relief stickers and hearty donations can ease some of the pressure, with Dou Li's hospital sending relief stickers and viscose-peeling sprays from Xinjiang.
但是刚开始的时候她们“什么都没有，就是深深地压”。
But at first they were "nothing but deep pressure."
2月18日，武汉大学人民医院东院区，即将进入污染区的护士们在穿戴防护用具。
Nurses who are about to enter the contaminated area wear protective gear in the East Campus of Wuhan University's People's Hospital on Feb. 18.
中青报·中青网记者 李隽辉/摄在防护服里，人会大量出汗，在病患区4个小时基本不用上厕所，水分“从汗腺里就已经排完了”。
Zhongqing News Zhongqing net reporter Li meaningful hui / photography in the protective clothing, people will sweat a lot, in the patient area four hours basic do not need to go to the toilet, moisture "from the sweat glands have been exhausted."
出来后，极度口渴，有的护士会拿500ml的水“一瓶直接就灌进去”。
After coming out, thirsty, some nurses would take 500ml of water "one bottle straight in."
每天穿上防护服，护士们要蹲几下看看漏不漏气，如果防护服像《超能陆战队》里的“大白”一样鼓起来才算没事儿。
Wear protective clothing every day. Nurses squat to make sure it doesn't leak. It's OK if the suit bulges up like "white" in Super Marines.
但也并不是所有时候都平安无事。
But it is not always safe.
窦丽值班的时候，23岁的护士常宁在病患区发现防护服裤腿上有个小米粒大小的洞，检查时没有发现。
While Dou Li was on duty, 23-year-old nurse Chang Ning found a small grain-sized hole in the leg of her protective dress in the patient's area.
这时，她已经进去一个多小时。
By this time she had been in for over an hour.
按照“已经暴露”的应急流程，窦丽在缓冲区把常宁所有衣物消毒处理，再让她到冲洗室进行长达半个小时的洗澡消毒。
Following the "exposed" emergency procedure, Dou Li disinfected all Changning clothes in the buffer zone and sent her to the shower room for half an hour to disinfect.
常宁回到宿舍隔离观察。
Chang Ning returns to dormitory isolation observation.
她幸运的是，防护服其他部分防护较好、消毒及时，两周未见异常。
Luckily for her, the other parts of the suit were well protected and disinfected in time for two weeks.
“那件防护服存在质量问题，”窦丽说，可能上百件里只有一件，概率很小。
"There was a quality problem with the suit," Dou Li said. There was probably only one in a hundred.
但在传染病防治的战场，如果有一个人因此倒下，有可能整个团队都会被隔离，造成更大的人力资源紧缺。
But on the battlefield of infectious disease control, if one person falls as a result, it is possible that entire teams will be isolated, creating a greater shortage of human resources.
这就是传染病区残酷的地方。
This is the cruelty of the infectious zone.
为了确保万无一失，穿防护服的过程被分解为7个步骤，贴在过道墙上，下面的桌子上对应放着装备。
To ensure safety, the process of wearing protective clothing is broken down into seven steps, which are attached to the wall in the hallway, with corresponding equipment on the table below.
余锂镭说，这样可以减少头脑记忆失误，“不用记，只要跟着步骤走到哪一步，你拿哪一步的装备戴上就行。
'This reduces mental memory errors, 'says Mr. Yu.' Just follow the steps and you can just take which step of the equipment you're wearing.
”12楼原有的护士和外援按4到5人一组分组，每组都被要求上完一套班后回去休息5天，循环上阵，“隔得时间长，即使万一出现感染情况，不至于全军覆没。
Nurses and foreign aid on the 12th floor were divided into groups of four or five, each of whom was asked to complete a set of classes and go back for a five-day rest.
”“对大家真正的好就是都保持距离，为了保证团队完整，时刻都要把你的同事当做‘感染者’来防范，这样才能保证大家互相警醒。
"The real good for everyone is to be at arm's length, and to keep the team intact, always treat your co-workers as if they were infected, so we can all be alert to each other.
”余锂镭说。
"said Yu Lium.
所幸，从疫情暴发至今，12楼的所有医生、护士，没有一位被感染。
Fortunately, none of the doctors and nurses on the 12th floor have been infected since the outbreak.
4一个多月以后，12楼的一些设施开始不堪重负了。
After more than a month, some facilities on the 12th floor are beginning to overburden.
那扇没来得及装锁的门也变形了。
The door was deformed before it could be locked.
以前，大家就想了各种办法去固定它。
Before, people thought of various ways to fix it.
开始是用两个挂钩和一根橡皮筋，但是风一吹，挂钩就坏了。
First with two hooks and a rubber band, but when the wind blows, the hooks break down.
后来，武大人民医院东院区新冠肺炎疫情防控指挥部副指挥长熊勇拿着电钻，在门上装了一套老式铁质插销，解决了这个问题。
Later, Wu Da People's Hospital East District New Crown Pneumonia Command Deputy Command Xiong Xiong took an electric drill and installed an old-fashioned iron latch on the door, which solved the problem.
如今，变形后的它有些关不严了，这对密闭性要求高的传染病病区来说是“大忌”，医院负责后勤的师傅赶来在门缝打了一层密封条。
Today, it is somewhat lax after deformation, which is a "bogey" for high-density infectious disease areas, the hospital's logistics master came to the door sealant.
靠它，12楼还能再坚持一段时间。
It'll last a little longer on the 12th floor.
从这门里来来回回的医护人员也是。
So are the paramedics who come and go from door to door.
一个多月来，这里的护士穿过各式各样的防护服。
For more than a month, nurses here have worn a variety of protective clothing.
在楼道的装备桌前，他们笑称“世界各国品牌的都穿过了，始终走在时尚前沿”。
In the hallway in front of the equipment table, they laughingly said that "the world's brands have been through, always in the forefront of fashion."
他们最喜欢的还是带脚套的那种，拉链拉起来能遮住半边脸，“遮得严，也不用特别使劲压疼脸粘紧口罩。
Their favorite is the one with the foot-strap, with the zip up to cover half the face, "tightly shielded and free from extra effort to press and tighten the mask."
”2月18日，武汉大学人民医院东院区，即将进入污染区的医生和护士们在穿戴防护用具。
"On February 18, doctors and nurses in the eastern courtyard of Wuhan University's People's Hospital, about to enter the contaminated area, were wearing protective gear.
中青报·中青网记者 李隽辉/摄窦丽说，女护士们脱了防护服以后不愿意拍照，“觉得太丑了”，都是素面朝天，脸上还有溃疡、勒痕。
Zhongqing News Zhongqing net reporter Li meaningful hui / sinuoli said the female nurses after taking off protective clothing, "feel too ugly", are plain in the sky, the face is ulcerated, strangled.
不过，她开玩笑说，“这也怪省化妆品的。
But, she joked, "it's also a case of saving cosmetics.
”周珏秀是这里最小的一位护士。
"Zhou Kak-soo is the youngest nurse here.
她在2019年8月刚到12楼上班。
She had just arrived on the 12th floor in August 2019.
在上学的时候，她没有接触过防护服。
At school, she had no contact with protective clothing.
新冠肺炎患者来之前练习时，在12楼一排人的注视、挑错、指正下，她第一次学会穿防护服。
She learned to wear protective clothing for the first time in a row of people on the 12th floor watching, picking mistakes and pointing the way before she arrived.
然后，就这样坚持了一个多月。
Then, it lasted more than a month.
这个马上22岁的女生，希望过生日那天能吃到不远处光谷步行街上的奶茶和炸鸡。
The soon-to-be-22-year-old hopes to have milk tea and fried chicken for her birthday not far off in the Valley of Light.
还有不到一个月的时间，她不知道能不能实现这个愿望。
With less than a month to go, she did not know if she could make it happen.
57岁的护工余长珍和周珏秀一样期待着那一天。
Kak-soo and Kak-soo, 57, look forward to the day.
她和这些医护人员已经一起工作了一个多月，这期间，一位住在12楼的新冠肺炎患者因心肌梗死去世。
She and the paramedics have been working together for more than a month, during which time a 12-storey Newcastle pneumonia patient died of a myocardial infarction.
到那个病房擦地，余长珍感到很害怕，“我的孩子还没成家，我老公年纪也大了，我在这个年纪（出了事）怕他们的身体承受不了。
When she went to the ward to mop the floor, she was afraid. "My children haven't got a family, my husband is old, and I'm afraid their bodies won't be able to bear it.
”她每天在上午9点准时开始清洁病患区。
"She began cleaning the sick area at 9 a.m. sharp every day.
进去以后，余长珍把每个房间和过道的垃圾收走，每天能清理出20多袋垃圾，她一袋一袋拖到污物出口，会有师傅开车运走。
After entering, Yu collected garbage from every room and aisle and cleaned out more than 20 bags of garbage each day, which she hauled out to the exit in sacks that would be driven away by a master.
她再用消毒液浸泡过的拖把擦地面。
She wiped the floor with a sterilized mop.
除非腰酸到极点，她不敢停下歇着，她害怕“待时间长了感染”，“那一层楼要慌忙做掉，快要3个小时。
She was afraid to stop and rest until her waist was full of acid. She was afraid of "an infection of time" and "the floor would have to be hurriedly done for three hours.
”孩子打来电话说，“网上看到的新闻吓人，妈妈你回来。
"The kid called and said," The news on the Net is scary, Mom, come back.
”余长珍就安慰他，“妈妈不怕的，妈妈是做事的。
"Yu Changzhen said to him," Mom is not afraid, her mother is doing things.
”她的家就在和医院一条马路之隔的小区里，那里有她不会做饭的丈夫、没成家的儿子。
Her home is in a small neighborhood across the road from the hospital, where her husband, who cannot cook, has no son.
她自己则住在医院宿舍中，不会用智能手机视频通话的她，已经一个月没看到过他们了。
She lives in a hospital dorm and doesn't use smartphone videos. She hasn't seen them for a month.
余长珍希望疫情快点结束，她能快点回家。
Yu hoped the outbreak would end soon and that she could go home soon.
中国青年报·中国青年网出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
China Youth Daily & amp; China Youth Net & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
12楼一切如常。
Everything's fine on the 12th floor.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "12楼一切如常";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; on the 12th floor.
var msg_desc = "这里只是变成了收治新冠肺炎重症患者的地方。
var msg _ desc = & quot; this is just a place to treat patients with severe coronary pneumonia.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
