专访卫健委高级别专家组成员杜斌：这一切与英雄主义无关 | 南方周末。
Interview with Du Bin, a member of the health committee's high-level panel: All this has nothing to do with heroism.
收藏 点赞 评论 分享到 微信  微博 搜索 加入会员 APP下载 登录 | 注册  专访卫健委高级别专家组成员杜斌：这一切与英雄主义无关 作者：南方人物周刊 杨楠  特约撰稿 汤禹成 责任编辑：周建平 网络编辑：解树 南方人物周刊 18小时前 （本系列均为南方周末、南方人物周刊原创，限时免费阅读中） “其实我们最不愿意看到的两个事儿出现了。
| | | | | | | | | | | [dvnewspage] http: / / www.youtheme.cnYouTheme (wwwyoutheme.cn) http: / / www.youtheme.cnYouTheme (wwwyoutheme.cn) YouTheme (wwwyoutheme.cn) www.youtheme.cnYouTheme (wwwyoutheme.cn)
一个是我来之前已经发生了的，医院成为一个新的传播点。
One of them happened before I came, and the hospital became a new transmission point.
还有一个就是家里成为了传染地” “最重要的决策不是去决定某一个人的生死，而是决定某一群人的生死。
"" The most important decision is not about the life or death of a person, but about the life and death of a group of people.
行政部门的角色才真的是最为重要，能够决定一群人的生死。
It is the role of the executive that really matters, the life and death of a group of people.
比如说居家隔离，比如说建方舱，这些影响的人不是一个两个” 本文首发于南方人物周刊  杜斌 图 / 受访者提供 在武汉的新冠肺炎救治中，很多重症医生都会提到北京协和医院内科ICU(重症医学)主任杜斌。
For example, home quarantine, such as building a square cabin, does not affect two people. "This article was first published in the Southern Personality Weekly Du Bin / Interviewees provide treatment for the new crown pneumonia in Wuhan, and many serious doctors will mention Du Bin, director of internal medicine at Peking Concorde Hospital.
我们问一位重症专家，杜斌是什么样的人？答说：一个纯粹的医生。
We asked a serious specialist, what kind of person is Du Bin? Answer: A pure doctor.
杜斌是国家卫健委高级别专家组成员、国家新冠肺炎医疗救治专家组成员，这是一个医生能在此次疫情中担任的一种最重要的角色。
Du Bin is a member of the high-level group of experts of the national health committee and the national team of experts in treating new crown pneumonia, the most important role a doctor can play in the epidemic.
他自认已经尽了全力，但应对烈性传染病的核心在于防控，不在于治疗。
He claims to have done his best, but prevention, not cure, lies at the heart of the response to powerful infectious diseases.
“最重要的决策不是去决定某一个人的生死，而是决定某一群人的生死。
"The most important decision is not about the life or death of a person, but about the lives of a group of people.
” 3月11日中午，杜斌接受了我们的独家专访。
On March 11, at noon, Mr. Du accepted our exclusive interview.
“从他的汇报来看，没觉得这事已经到不可收拾的地步” 人物周刊：高级别专家组的工作是什么？ 杜斌：我是18号中午到武汉，下午医管局就拿了45个病例给我看，但是到傍晚就告诉我，有别的事儿，第二天就出来了一个高级别专家组，有钟南山院士的那个，我也不知道他们怎么把我归在那里。
According to his report, I don't think it's out of control. "PEOPLE WEEKLY: What is the work of the high-level panel of experts? Du Bin: I arrived in Wuhan at noon on the 18th and showed me 45 cases in the afternoon.
我自己理解，所谓高级别专家组，就是去了解疫情是什么样的情况，做一个大致判断，然后20号在北京向领导汇报。
I understand that the so-called high-level group of experts, to understand what the epidemic is like, to make a rough judgement, and then 20 to report back to the leadership in Beijing.
所以我们19号那天花一天的时间，听了省里和市里的疫情汇报，然后去了武汉疾控中心和金银潭医院。
So we spent a day on the 19th, listened to the provincial and city reports, and then went to Wuhan CDC and gold and silver pool hospital.
20号上午先在国务院汇报，下午我又参加了国务院联防联控机制的电视电话会议，参会的人不都是卫生口的，还有公安、交通等等。
On the morning of the 20th, I first reported to the State Council, and in the afternoon I participated in the teleconference of the Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism of the State Council.
湖北省有两位主政官员也去了，坦率地讲，从他的汇报来看，没觉得这事已经到不可收拾的地步。
Two government officials from Hubei province also went, and frankly speaking, from his report, did not feel that this matter has been out of control.
人物周刊：我看到另一位高级别专家组成员袁国勇接受采访说，钟南山一直在追问究竟有没有更多病例。
Personality Weekly: I saw another high-level panel member Yuan Guoyong, said Zhong Nan Shan has been asking whether there are more cases.
杜斌：确实是。
Bin Yes, indeed.
当时提供数字的两级机构，确实存在说数字的时候，他们彼此之间不一样，或者说有些数字不那么确定。
The two levels of institutions that provided the numbers did exist when the numbers were said to be different from each other, or some of the figures were less certain.
比如问医护人员感染，这个重要的不是人数，而是存在还是不存在。
For example, ask medical staff to infect, this important is not the number of people, but the existence or non-existence.
如果存在，就意味着是人传人。
If it exists, it means human-to-human.
我的理解是，其实钟南山和袁国勇他们来的时候，已经知道深圳有家庭聚集发病的病例，他们是要确认武汉这边其实也有。
I understand, in fact, Zhong Nan Shan and Yuan Guoyong when they came, already knew Shenzhen has a case of family gathering, they want to confirm that Wuhan actually has this side.
人物周刊：在北京汇报结束之后的行程是什么？ 杜斌：20号开完会又给了我一个任务，说是WHO要开一个视频会，日内瓦要和北京连线讨论疫情。
People's Weekly: What's the schedule after the Beijing debriefing? Du Bin: After the meeting on 20th, I was given another task, saying that the World Health Organization was going to hold a video conference and that Geneva would be connecting with Beijing to discuss the outbreak.
这个会非常重要，会帮助WHO决定这是不是国际突发的公共卫生事件。
This meeting is important to help the WHO decide if this is an international public health emergency.
21号早上又给我一个通知，说会议改到了22号晚上，再往后一天，我就急了。
On the morning of the 21st I was informed that the meeting would be rescheduled for the evening of the 22nd, and the next day I would be in a hurry.
我说我不想在这儿待着，我想去武汉，我不喜欢开会。
I said I don't want to stay here. I want to go to Wuhan. I don't like meetings.
后来领导同意了，我就收拾东西回了武汉。
Then the leader agreed, and I packed up and went back to Wuhan.
杜斌在病房内与患者交流 “对这个病仍然在慢慢认识” 人物周刊：1月22号你开始在金银潭医院查房，有什么印象深刻的病人么？ 杜斌：坦率地讲，我记不得了。
Du Bin spoke to patients in the ward "Still getting to know the disease" People's Weekly: January 22 You started checking out rooms at the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital. Do you have any impressive patients? Bin Frankly, I don't remember.
我花了几天时间去认识这个疾病的特点，尽管当时他们会给我介绍，但其实跟自己的感受是不一样的。
I spent a few days trying to understand the nature of the disease, and although they would introduce it to me at the time, it was different from what I felt.
当时第一感觉是所有人的病情都是一样的，都差不多。
The first feeling at the time was that everyone was in the same condition, about the same.
这有点像2014年昆山爆炸，我们收烧伤的病人，186个住院的，三度烧伤面积大概平均在95%，每个病人都基本一样。
It's sort of like the Kunshan explosion in 2014, where we took in a burn patient, 186 hospitalized, with a third-degree burn area averaging about 95%, about the same for each patient.
我们平时看病在监护室，这人心衰、那人肾衰，这人糖尿病、那人肺炎，是不一样的，但在金银潭的ICU，所有人是一个病，看完以后没有印象深的人，因为都混在一起。
In the ICU of the gold and silver pool, all of us were sick, and after looking at those who had not been impressed, because they were all mixed together.
人物周刊：他们都是哪些症状？ 杜斌：都是呼吸衰竭，只是呼衰的严重程度不同。
WRITTEN: What are their symptoms? Du Bin: They're respiratory failure, just different degrees of severity.
有些人无创，有些人有创；有些人有肾衰，有些人没肾衰；有些人有休克，有些人没休克。
Some are non-invasive, some are invasive, some have kidney failure, some have no kidney failure, some have shock and some do not go into shock.
真正对这病逐渐有稍微清晰的想法，是后面的事。
It's the next thing that really gets a little clearer about the disease.
人物周刊：你的认识是怎样逐渐建立起来的？ 杜斌：肯定天天看着病人，看病情变化。
WRITTEN: How did you come to know each other? Du Bin: I must be looking at the patient every day to see how things change.
在金银潭我看了十多天，然后就是去不同的医院。
I watched Gold and Silver Pool for more than ten days, then went to different hospitals.
到目前为止，我们对这个病仍然在慢慢认识。
So far, we are still getting to know the disease.
我觉得最初这段时间，坦率地说，有点无奈。
I think the initial period of time, frankly, a little helpless.
单从病人和病情的角度而言，确实搞不懂。
From the point of view of patients and conditions alone, really do not understand.
比如说我们会看到相当一部分病人即便上了呼吸机，低氧依然很难纠正；比如有些病人的二氧化碳潴留顽固，很难用调整呼吸机的方式调节。
For example, we can see that hypoxia can be difficult to correct even when a patient has a ventilator; for example, some patients have persistent CO2 retention that is difficult to adjust by adjusting the respirator.
我记得特别清楚，最开始那几天，我去看了一个病人，病人血气检测二氧化碳一栏写的是XXX，这是到了测不出来的程度，没有数字了。
I remember quite clearly that, in the first few days, I went to see a patient whose blood gas test, called "XXX," was undetectable. There were no numbers.
我在床边调了一上午，等我中午出来的时候，二氧化碳显示大于115了。
I spent the morning by the bed, and by the time I came out at noon, the carbon dioxide was more than 115.
终于有数了，但仍大大超过检测上限，我就觉得非常崩溃，你根本不知道你在干的是什么，你干的效果到底是什么？ 人物周刊：对疾病认识的变化，在这次疫情里如何影响治疗？你因此犯过错吗？ 杜斌：进病房后，你就会逐渐认识这些病。
I know, but it's still well above the detection limit, and I feel like I'm crumbling, you don't know what you're doing, what's the effect? PEOPLE: Change in disease awareness, how does it affect treatment in this outbreak? Do you make a mistake?
除了呼吸衰竭之外，我们最开始意识到肾脏问题，肯定是在最初10天内发现的，但是我承认，心脏问题其实一直到很晚才发现。
Apart from respiratory failure, we first became aware of kidney problems, which must have been discovered within the first 10 days, but I admit that heart problems were not discovered until very late.
比如心肌损害，有人在我没意识到的时候就跟我说，这种疾病是不是有心脏的问题，我就说你不对。
For example, myocardial damage, someone told me before I knew it was a heart problem, and I said you were wrong.
我当时要是接受这样的想法，有可能会更早地意识到这个问题，跟别的人有更多交流。
If I had accepted the idea, I would have realized it earlier and talked more to others.
这就是一个很典型的错误，这很正常，大家都会犯错。
This is a typical mistake. It's normal and everyone makes mistakes.
人物周刊：1月份时你崩溃，除了病复杂，还有别的原因吗？ 杜斌：其实那时候还有一个原因，有很多的病人在外面。
Du Bin There was a reason there were a lot of patients out there.People's Weekend: You fell apart in January.
那时候去武昌医院，武昌医院每天五六百个发热门诊。
At that time went to Wuchang Hospital, Wuchang Hospital five to six hundred fever clinics every day.
有段时间，同济医院是发门诊限号，400个号，一个小时之内肯定没了。
For some time, Tongji Hospital is a limited number of out-patient service, 400, within an hour is definitely gone.
回过头来，金银潭ICU只要空一张床，永远有病人来，而且可能不止一个病人。
In retrospect, the gold and silver pool ICU only needs an empty bed, there will always be patients, and there may be more than one patient.
其实传染病最重要的不是治疗，是防控。
In fact, the most important infectious disease is not treatment, prevention and control.
你怎么让病人数减少，剩下的再去治。
How can you reduce the number of patients and treat the rest.
你不知道还有多少病人在外面，就意味着你也不知道有多少重症病人。
You don't know how many patients are out there, which means you don't know how many patients are in serious condition.
有的病人真是一来了就哐当倒下，一来就心肺复苏，那哪有招？根本救不回来。
Some patients really bang down when the first heart lung resuscitation, that there is no way? Can not save.
这些病人在外面就意味着可能会延误治疗。
The presence of these patients means that treatment may be delayed.
人物周刊：你当时在着急什么？ 杜斌：其实我们最不愿意看到的两个事儿出现了。
People's Weekly: What were you worried aboutDu Bin: In fact, the last two things we wanted to see turned up.
一个是我来之前已经发生了的，医院成为一个新的传播点。
One of them happened before I came, and the hospital became a new transmission point.
还有一个就是家里成为了传染地。
Another is that the home has become the locus of infection.
人们来医院是为了得到治疗，而不是得病；你希望他居家隔离也是希望他不传染给别人，而结果都不是那么回事。
People come to the hospital to get treatment, not to get sick; you want him to stay at home and keep him from infecting other people, but that's not the case.
我来的时候，医院已经瘫痪了，它已经没有办法完成自己的使命，变成了散播病毒的地方。
By the time I arrived, the hospital was paralyzed, unable to carry out its mission and turned into a place for spreading the virus.
当然，我只管治疗，我不负责防控，这不是我的专业范围，我可能提不出更好的措施。
Of course, I only treat, I am not responsible for control, this is not my professional scope, I may not be able to propose a better measure.
但从这个病毒的传播情况看，从华南海鲜市场暴发，到医院，再到社区，我觉得这不对。
But from the spread of the virus, from outbreaks in the seafood market in South China to hospitals to communities, I don't think it's right.
“你不插（管），我给你插” 人物周刊：作为专家组的成员，你当时给出的治疗意见有哪些？ 杜斌：最开始不是一个整体的治疗意见，更多是针对每一个病人。
"If you don't get involved, I'm going to insert you" persona weekly: What treatment advice did you give as a member of the panel? Du Bin: It wasn't a holistic treatment at first, it was more about each patient.
但其实一开始这段时间，我自己还是有点崩溃，本来平时的病人调整治疗后，其实就好了，就会有改善。
But in fact, at the beginning of this period, I still a little bit of collapse, originally normal patients adjust the treatment, in fact, good, there will be improvement.
但这些病人你怎么弄，最后还是不行。
But how do you deal with these patients? It doesn't work.
我们大家逐渐意识到最开始的治疗方式肯定是有问题的，不然不会大多数病人都不好。
We are all beginning to realize that the first treatment must be a problem, or most patients will not be bad.
所以后来大家形成共识，恐怕这些病人前面缺氧时间太长了，所以我们就会在金银潭医院和肺科医院查房时，跟医生商量说，这病人别等了，赶紧插管。
So it was agreed that these patients had been lacking oxygen for too long, so we talked to the doctor when we checked in at the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital and the Pulmonary Hospital.
甚至有些人在插管的时候心跳就停了，肯定是太晚了，这是毫无疑问的。
Some people even stop their heartbeats while they are intubating. It must be too late. There is no doubt about it.
所以后来大家达成了一个相对一致的意见，说我们要积极一点，就开始尝试早期气管插管，到后面这些病人早插管之后，相对来说维持得比较容易。
So a relatively unanimous opinion was reached that we should be more active and start experimenting with early endotracheal intubation, which is relatively easy to maintain after these patients are intubated early.
人物周刊：你有自己动手插过管吗？ 杜斌：有啊。
Personality Weekly: Have you ever put a hand in a tube by yourselfBin: Yes.
人物周刊：为什么你这么大的专家还需要亲自动手插管？ 杜斌：为什么不能我插？为什么都必须人家插？我会插管啊！我插管并不是在金银潭插的，第一次是北京协和医院在同济医院中法院区接手了ICU，把我任命成病区主任。
Personality Weekly: Why does an expert of your size need a hand-in-hand intubation? Du Bin: Why can't I get in? Why do I have to be interposed? I can intubate! The first time Peking Concorde Hospital took over the ICU in the court district of Tongji Hospital and appointed me as the sick district director.
他们开始接收病人那天我在，我以前的经验告诉我，其实最慌乱的就是你刚开始接收病人的时候，因为大家都不熟悉这个病。
The day they started receiving patients I was there, and my previous experience told me that the biggest panic of all is when you start taking in patients because no one is familiar with the disease.
我在那儿呢，有病人上来要插管，第一个气管插管肯定是我插的。
I'm over there. There's a patient coming up to intubate. I must have plugged in the first trachea.
这时候我得告诉他们，咱们能做这件事，而且是应该做。
Then I have to tell them that we can and should do it.
你要自己都不做，凭什么让别人做？这是我的想法。
If you don't do it yourself, why would you let someone else do it? That's my idea.
这没什么特别的。
There's nothing special about it.
即便这个团队有很多人都能插管，而且可能很多人都比我熟练，但是第一根管肯定是我插的。
Even though a lot of people on this team can intubate, and probably a lot of people are more adept than me, I must have plugged in the first tube.
（注：气管插管是高危操作，可喷溅分泌物、血液或产生飞沫或气溶胶，增加新型冠状病毒传染的风险。
(Note: Trachea intubation is a high-risk operation that can spatter secretions, blood or produce droplets or aerosols, increasing the risk of transmission of the new coronavirus.
） 人物周刊：我听说你是全武汉防护最马虎的一个医生。
) Personality Weekly: I hear you are one of the most carelessly guarded doctors in Wuhan.
杜斌：我如果没事，那说明我做的不一定是错的。
Du Bin: If I'm OK, that means I'm not doing it wrong.
他们说我在病区的时候不戴护目镜，只戴面屏，我是两个只选一个。
They said I didn't wear goggles when I was in the sick area. I wore a face screen.
他们说杜斌，你怎么把护目镜或者面屏弄上来了？因为我根本不相信这病房里有病毒能噌噌噌就到你眼睛这儿。
They say that Du Bin, how did you get the goggles or the screen up? Because I didn't believe that there was a virus in this ward to miso to your eyes.
但我跟他们说，你见过我面对着病人的时候，把护目镜摘了吗？从来没有。
But I told them, have you ever seen me take off my goggles when I'm facing a patient? Never.
我面对着病人的时候，我不会这么做，我不是傻子。
I don't do that when I'm facing patients. I'm not a fool.
这里面最重要的，是口罩、是洗手，别的都不那么重要，但是你做高危操作的时候是另外一回事。
The most important of these are masks, hand-washing, and everything else is not that important, but doing high-risk operations is another matter.
人物周刊：后来医院接到通知说要提高插管率，你怎么理解呢？ 杜斌：首先，插不插管这个东西并非是用插管率去评估的。
People's Weekly: Later the hospital was told to increase the rate of intubation, how do you understand.Du Bin First of all, it is not the intubation rate to assess this thing.
那时候说提高插管率，不是说要求你必须达到一个比例，也不是说每个病区都要插管，而是发现有些病区里的医护人员认识不到延迟插管的危害，以及无创通气会造成飞沫传播的危害，都说不能插管，这不对。
This is not to say that you have to reach a ratio, nor that every area should be intubated, but to find out that in some areas health care workers do not understand the dangers of delayed intubation and that noninvasive ventilation can cause droplet transmission. This is not true.
医生哪能看着病人情况越来越差，有治疗措施却不使用呢？你不插，我给你插，我给你做出榜样来。
How can a doctor look at a patient who is getting worse and worse and who has a cure but doesn't use it? If you don't cut in, I'll give you an example.
恐惧的心理大家都知道，这很正常。
The psychology of fear Everyone knows it's normal.
但是如果一直拿恐惧来说事，就不对。
But if you keep talking about fear, you're not right.
人物周刊：疫情初期，很多人没有得到足够的医疗救治。
PEOPLE WEEKLY: In the early days of the epidemic, many people did not receive adequate medical care.
但到了近期，我们注意到在国家财政支持的情况下，有一些治疗是用了最极致的手段去维持病人的生命。
But in the near future, we have noticed that, with the financial support of the state, some treatments use the most extreme means to keep patients alive.
如果换作平时，病人家属和医生可能会就是否停止治疗作出一个选择，而不是用极致的治疗手段不断拖延。
In normal times, patients' families and doctors may have a choice about whether to stop treatment, rather than continuing to delay it with extreme treatment.
杜斌：其实你说的是对的。
Bin Actually, you're right.
有的危重病人是这种情况，你挽救了他的生命，后面他可能变成植物人状态，而且需要家属或社会持续不断投入。
In the case of a critically ill person, you save his life, and later he may become a vegetative state that requires constant input from his family or society.
从地震到烧伤，到现在，这事儿都是无解的。
From the earthquake to the burns, until now, it has been unsolvable.
在平时我们会把我们的判断跟家里人去谈，然后家里人接受也好不接受也好，会作出一个选择。
In ordinary times, we talk about our judgment with our family, and then the family, accepting it or not, makes a choice.
这是一个伦理问题，医学伦理的问题，我暂时没办法给你一个很好的答案。
It's a question of ethics, of medical ethics, and I can't give you a good answer for the time being.
人物周刊：我采访的一位医生手上有11个危重病人，他每天都在拼命维持他们的生命，但他判断其中九成很难活下去。
People's Weekly: One of the doctors I interviewed had 11 critically ill people who were struggling to keep their lives alive every day, but he judged that 90% of them would be difficult to live.
这怎么办呢？ 杜斌：我也不知道，但这的确是我们要去考虑的一个事儿。
What about this? Du Bin: I don't know, but this is one thing we really need to think about.
比如日本发现烧伤的人一年后的自杀率特别高，很难回归社会。
Japan, for example, found that people with burns had a particularly high suicide rate a year later, making it difficult to return.
现在维持住了生命，但之后怎么办，这是更复杂的事情。
It's more complicated to hold on to life now, but what's next?
杜斌（右二）和同事在病房内研究病情 “这一切与英雄主义无关，唯一的法宝是正直” 人物周刊：前几天国务院疫情防控首场英文发布会上，分享中国抗疫经验时，你为什么引用《鼠疫》里的句子——“这一切与英雄主义无关，唯一的法宝是正直”？ 杜斌：正好那天上午我一个同学给我发过来这个话，我正愁没什么好说的，这挺应景，我就给说了。
Du Bin (second right) and his colleagues studied the disease in the ward. "It has nothing to do with heroism. The only magic weapon is integrity." When sharing China's experience of fighting plague in English the other day, why did you quote from Plague
人物周刊：你心里真的是这样觉得么？唯一的法宝是正直。
Character Week: Do you really feel that way? The only magic weapon is integrity.
杜斌：当然。
Bin Of course.
你选择一个职业，你有荣誉，你也有责任。
You choose a profession, you have honor, you also have responsibility.
如果你是战地记者，哪里打仗你就往哪里钻，因为这是你干的活儿，如果你是飞机的机长，你年薪那么高，但是飞机出事了，你应该是最后一个离开的，这是责任。
If you're a war correspondent, you drill wherever you go, because that's what you do, and if you're the captain of an airplane, and your annual salary is so high, but the plane has an accident, you should be the last one to leave, that's the responsibility.
医生也一样，这时候，医生不上，你让谁上？这是医生的责任。
So does the doctor. At this point, the doctor doesn't go. Who do you have to go to? It's the doctor's responsibility.
人物周刊：医生的责任是什么？ 杜斌：完成你的工作，治病救人，哪能说什么专家来了之后不进病房。
WRITTEN: What's a doctor's responsibilityDu Bin: Finish your job, save people, how can you say that no expert comes to the hospital room.
这里头不是高尚，是我们应该做的事。
It's not noble. It's what we should do.
人物周刊：你尽全力了么？ 杜斌：我当然尽了全力。
Personality Weekly: Have you tried your best? Du Bin Of course I did my best.
我不能说我所有的判断都是对的，绝无可能。
I can't say that all my judgments are correct and impossible.
人物周刊：你现在能知道你犯过什么错误吗？ 杜斌：我到现在也不能说我认识到了所有的错误，但是我知道我一定犯过错，这很正常。
WRITTEN: Can you see now what mistakes you've made? Du Bin I can't say that I realized all the mistakes, but I know I must have made some mistakes.
人物周刊：什么时候压力最大？ 杜斌：其实没什么压力大的时候。
Personality Weekly: When is the most stressful time? Du Bin: In fact, there is no great pressure.
坦率地讲，因为最重要的决策不是我们做的。
Frankly, because the most important decisions are not ours to make.
写诊疗方案这事儿，我们以前也干过，禽流感的诊疗方案什么的。
We've done this before, we've been working on a diagnosis and treatment plan for avian flu.
最重要的决策不是去决定某一个人的生死，而是决定某一群人的生死。
The most important decision is not to decide one's life or death, but the life and death of a group of people.
行政部门的角色才真的是最为重要，能够决定一群人的生死。
It is the role of the executive that really matters, the life and death of a group of people.
比如说居家隔离，比如说建方舱，这些影响的人不是一个两个。
For example, home isolation, such as the construction of a square cabin, these effects are not two people.
订阅南方周末会员，支持原创优质内容。
Subscribe Southern Weekend member, support original quality content.
成为南周会员，尊享七大权益，在一起，读懂中国。
Become a member of the Southern Week, enjoy the seven rights and interests, together, read China.
卫健委 杜斌  相关文章 。
Wei health committee Du Bin related articles.
全球抗疫之战 | 汤姆·汉克斯夫妇确诊，意甲、NBA暂停……。
The global battle against the disease has been diagnosed by Tom and Hank, Serie A and NBA suspension...
南方人物周刊 03-12 2评论 。
Southern Character Week 03-12 2 Review.
一场漫长的地震。
A long earthquake.
南方人物周刊 03-11 8评论 参与评论   发表评论 最新评论  （2）     回复 187****0995 2小时前 致敬工作在一线的医护人员们     回复 138****3604 10小时前 一个有良心的医生。
CHARACTERISTICS OF THE SOUTH 03-118 COMMENTS ON PARTICIPATORY COMMENTS Updated comments 187 * * * * 0995 2 hours ago Hail to the medical staff working on the front line Replied 138 * * * * 3604 A doctor of conscience 10 hours ago.
加载更多   下一篇 。
Load more next one.
为全球抗击疫情注入信心（和音）。
instil confidence (harmony) in the global fight against the epidemic.
关于南周 南周品牌 南周APP 关于我们 交流与合作 广告服务 友情链接 南方人物周刊 南方网 南方都市报 21经济网 联系我们 客服热线：020-87391761 关注南周微博  南方周末APP下载  南方周末公众号  南周知道公众号  24楼影院公众号  南瓜学堂公众号  广东南方数媒工场科技有限责任公司 | 新闻信息服务许可证 ICP经营许可证号：粤B2-20050252号 网站备案信息：粤ICP备13019428号 违法和不良信息监督电话：020-87361587 | 监督邮箱：service@infzm.com  ×    #热门搜索# 逝者疫线医声疫区视界抗击新冠肺炎全纪录年度精选文化原创榜2019南周后台合集吾城·吾乡新年献词新年特刊大家小说一周教育热点来说说看一周文化史瞬间一周     。
South Zhou Nan Zhou brand about our exchange and cooperation advertising services friendship link Southern Peoples Weekly Southern Metropolitan News 21 economic network contact our customer service hotline: 020-87361587 & # 160; South China Weekend Pumpkin Studio Public, Guangdong 24 / F IPP Pumpkin Studio Public, Guangdong Southern Media Workshop Science and Technology Co. Ltd.
