九死一生的车祸患者，疫情下的劫后余生。
A victim of a deadly car accident, the rest of his life.
丁香园 DXY。
DXY, Lilac Garden.
丁香园                      。
Cloves Garden.
丁香园。
Cloves Garden.
千万医务工作者的网上家园。
tens of millions of medical workers online homes.
我们深知医疗的痛苦与快乐，在丁香园里，您可以了解最新资讯、阅读深度报道，并与同行进行交流。
We are well aware of the pain and joy of medical care. In the clove garden, you can learn the latest news, read in-depth reports and communicate with your peers.
。
.
作者：关邯峰作为一名医生，免不了与生死打交道。
Author: As a doctor, Guan Hanfeng has to deal with life and death.
见过太多命运多舛的心酸故事，有时候自己也会怀疑人生。
Seen too many ill-fated heartache stories, sometimes I doubt my life.
但偏偏总会有一些病人，在遭遇极大的不幸后，竟能扳赢死神一局。
But there will always be patients who, in the face of great misfortune, win the game of death.
这也让我不得不感叹生命的奇迹，我下面想讲的，就是这样一个故事。
This also makes me have to lament the miracle of life, I would like to tell the following, is such a story.
九死一生的车祸2020 年 1 月 4 日，我在专家门诊接诊了一位特殊的患者，患者本人没来，家属拿着资料。
A car crash of nine lives On January 4, 2020, I received a special patient at an expert clinic. The patient himself did not come.
该病人病情很严重，2019 年 12 月 8 日，她在一次不幸的车祸伤后昏迷，诊断为寰枕关节脱位，脑外伤，下颌骨骨折，舌骨骨折，肋骨骨折，肺挫裂伤等。
The patient was seriously ill and, on 8 December 2019, was diagnosed with atlantooccipital dislocation, brain trauma, mandibular fractures, hyoid fractures, broken ribs and lung contusions following an unfortunate car accident.
遭遇车祸后，病人被送往当地医院行气管切开、气管插管，呼吸机辅助呼吸等治疗。
After the accident, the patient was sent to the local hospital for tracheotomy, trachea intubation, ventilator-assisted breathing and other treatment.
在当地重症监护室经历了 20 天的治疗后病情逐渐稳定，病人神志慢慢清醒，已经可以不依赖机器进行自主呼吸。
After 20 days of treatment in the local intensive care unit, the patient gradually stabilized and became conscious enough to breathe independently of the machine.
但由于当地医院条件有限，无法手术，建议她转到武汉。
However, due to the limited conditions in the local hospital, surgery could not be recommended for her transfer to Wuhan.
病人的老公个子不高，看起来黑黑瘦瘦，焦灼的神情下透露出一股执拗劲儿，他不断强调他老婆病情已经好转，「已经有 9 天都是可以自己呼吸的。
The patient's husband was short, dark and skinny, and a tenacious expression of anxiety, constantly emphasizing that his wife was getting better and "breathing on her own for nine days."
」我建议他们赶紧转到我们医院——武汉同济医院，并且留了联系方式给家属，约好第二天转过来。
"I suggested that they immediately transfer to our hospital, Wuhan Tongji Hospital, and left their contact details for their families to make an appointment to turn around the next day.
因为病人家境贫寒，而重症监护室（ICU）的治疗费用比较高，因此我作了一个决定：既然病人能够脱离呼吸机自主呼吸，我就把她收到我们骨科病房，来尽量减少治疗费用。
Because the patient's family was poor and ICU treatment was more expensive, I made a decision to take her to our orthopaedic ward to minimize the cost of treatment, since the patient was able to breathe autonomously from the ventilator.
如果情况恶化，不能自主呼吸，再转到 ICU。
If the situation deteriorates and you cannot breathe on your own, switch to the ICU.
就这样，病人大概下午 3 点多就到了我们医院的急诊外科，当时她情况尚可，血氧饱和度可以维持在 96% 左右。
In this way, the patient arrived at our hospital for emergency surgery at about 3: 00 p.m., when she was in good condition and her blood oxygen saturation could be maintained at around 96%.
我把她收到了骨科病房。
I took her to the orthopaedic ward.
因为寰枕关节脱位，病人的呼吸功能受损，四肢已经瘫痪，躺在病床上只能轻微动弹手脚，由于做了气管切开，患者无法说话。
As a result of atlantooccipital dislocation, the patient's respiratory function was impaired, his limbs were paralyzed, he could only move his hands and feet slightly in his bed and he could not speak as a result of a tracheotomy.
入院后前两个小时，病人情况稳定。
Two hours after admission, the patient was in stable condition.
可是在那之后，情况就开始急转直下。
But after that, things began to fall sharply.
病人开始变得呼吸困难，饱和度也从 96% 左右，慢慢下降到 80% 左右。
The patient began to have difficulty breathing, and the saturation began to drop from about 96% to about 80%.
等我晚上 9 点半左右去看她的时候，她的血氧饱和度已经到了 75% 左右了。
By the time I visited her around 9: 30 p.m., her blood oxygen saturation had reached about 75 percent.
病人用尽全力呼吸，但是无济于事。
The patient breathed with all his strength, but to no avail.
我只好紧急联系 ICU 的床位。
I had to urgently contact the ICU bed.
那天晚上 ICU 没有床位了，我就给我创伤外科的同学杨帆教授打电话，转到了创外的重症监护室。
When the ICU had no bed that night, I called my trauma student, Professor Yang Fan, and transferred to the intensive care unit.
我记得当我和值班医生一起将她送到创外病房的时候，我已经打心眼里断定这个病人很可能难以恢复了。
By the time I sent her to the trauma ward with the doctor on duty, I had convinced myself that it would probably be difficult for the patient to recover.
从我从业十几年的经验上来讲，如果一个颈椎外伤的患者，自主呼吸不行，预后就比较差了，即便做了手术也很难恢复。
From my more than a decade of experience in the profession, if a patient with cervical trauma is unable to breathe autonomously, the prognosis is poor, and even surgery is difficult to recover.
让我惊讶的是，第二天上午我去看她的时候，她已经清醒过来，因为用了呼吸机，血氧饱和度也好了。
To my surprise, by the time I went to see her the next morning, she had regained consciousness because of the respirator and the oxygen saturation of the blood.
她可以听懂我的话，手脚也可以轻微动一下，四肢肌力大概 1+，这时我就又燃起了希望。
She could understand me, she could move her hands and feet a little, my limbs were about 1 +, and I was hopeful again.
对于我们脊柱外科医生来讲，如果一个病人完全瘫痪了，肌力为 0，恢复的概率是很小的。
For our spine surgeons, if a patient is completely paralyzed and has a muscle strength of 0, the chances of recovery are small.
如果是不全瘫痪，恢复的概率还是比较大的，而且肌力就算只是部分恢复，对患者的生存质量也是非常有意义的。
If it is incomplete paralysis, the probability of recovery is relatively large, and muscle strength, if only partial recovery, to the quality of life of patients is very meaningful.
罕见的幸存者寰椎（Atlas），取自希腊神话中背负着地球的泰坦巨神阿特拉斯。
Atlas, a rare survivor, is taken from Atlas, a giant god of the Titan carrying the earth in Greek mythology.
寰椎与头颅上的枕骨髁构成寰枕关节。
The occipital condyle above the atlantoaxial vertebrae constitutes the atlantooccipital joint.
我们人类硕大的脑袋就是依靠小小的关节（寰枕关节）跟颈椎相连的。
Our large human brains are connected to the cervical spine by small joints (atlantooccipital joints).
这种脱位其实并不罕见，国外一个研究发现，在颈椎外伤导致死亡的病例中，有大概 1/3 的病例都是因为寰枕关节的脱位导致的。
Such dislocation is not uncommon, with a foreign study finding that about one-third of deaths from cervical trauma are due to atlantooccipital dislocation.
但是这种外伤，对我们医生来说是很罕见的。
But this kind of trauma is very rare for our doctors.
为什么呢？因为绝大多数寰枕关节脱位的病人，受伤当场，或者在搬运、运输过程中，就死亡了。
Why? Because the vast majority of patients with atlantooccipital dislocation, injuries on the spot, or in the process of transport, died.
寰枕关节脱位是很不稳定的，搬运过程中，或者在翻身时，关节可能发生进一步错动，对脊髓中的生命中枢产生压迫和拉扯，导致呼吸衰竭而死亡。
The atlantooccipital dislocation is very unstable, and further dislocation of the joints may occur during movement, or during tumbling, resulting in compression and pull on the life centers of the spinal cord, leading to respiratory failure and death.
近年来，虽然院外急救水平在提高，但这种外伤后能活着进医院的例子，在世界范围内都很罕见。
In recent years, although the level of out-of-hospital emergency care has been improving, examples of such injuries remaining alive in hospitals are rare worldwide.
查阅文献，国外有过这种病例的报道。
The literature has been consulted and there have been reports of such cases abroad.
几乎所有的骨科医生都只是听说过，没有遇见过，包括国内公认的颅颈交界区手术做的最多的教授。
Almost all orthopaedic surgeons have only heard of it and never met it, including the most widely recognized professor of craniocervical junction surgery in the country.
理论上来讲，手术方案是寰枕关节复位 + 枕颈融合，但是具体细节不得而知：术前翻身、术中会否出现呼吸心跳骤停？国外文献也语焉不详，患者预后也有好有坏。
Theoretically, the surgery protocol is atlantooccipital reduction + occipital fusion, but the details are not known: Will there be cardiac arrest during surgery or before operation?
遇到了这样百年难遇的幸存者，我的心情是五味杂陈，一是激动，觉得这种情况能活下来，真是不容易。
Encountering such rare survivors, my feelings are mixed, one is excited, think this situation will survive, really not easy.
二来又紧张，老天放了她一马，接下来我们医生能赌赢这艰难的一局，从而帮助她化险为夷吗？本来是想星期五（1 月 10 号）做手术的，可从星期五早上开始，病人就开始发烧，而这时令人揪心的新冠肺炎，已经开始在武汉张开魔爪，大家的心情可想而知。
Second, the tension, God let her off, next we doctors can gamble on this difficult game, thus helping her survive? Originally scheduled for Friday (January 10), patients began to have a fever from Friday morning, when the heart-rending New Crown Pneumonia had begun to open its claws in Wuhan.
病人气管切开后卧床已经一个月了，肺部感染在所难免，发烧提示感染可能尚未控制。
The patient had been in bed for a month after tracheotomy, a pulmonary infection was inevitable and a fever suggested the infection might not be under control.
我院急诊科的年轻医生在 1 月 6 号已经感染了不明原因肺炎，我们的病人此时发烧，是否也有可能感染上新冠状肺炎？无奈之下，我们取消了手术。
Our young emergency doctor had contracted pneumonia on January 6 and our patient had a fever. Could he have contracted new coronary pneumonia? We canceled the operation.
十万个放弃的理由该病人来自农村的一个贫寒之家，也没有医保。
One hundred thousand reasons to give up The patient came from a poor family in the countryside and had no medical insurance.
祸原因是病人骑电动车不慎撞到路边停靠的在来我院之前，为了这个外伤，这家人已经花费了 20 万，家属已经在到处举债。
The cause of the accident was that the patient had accidentally hit a parked car on the side of the road. The family had already spent 200,000 yuan on the trauma and their families were already borrowing money everywhere.
如果要进行手术，就需要筹集昂贵的手术费，如果不手术，依靠呼吸机，每天费用也是一万元左右。
If surgery is to be performed, it costs about $10, 000 a day to operate, and if not, to rely on a ventilator.
我们左右为难。
We are in dilemma.
即便现在手术，就算一切顺利，也需要至少 10 万元。
Even now, if all goes well, it will cost at least $100, 000.
如果术后需要长期依靠呼吸机，费用更是天文数字。
If the long-term need to rely on respirator after surgery, the cost is astronomical.
在艰难的术前谈话中，病人的老公虽然焦灼不安，但有一点却无比坚定，那就是，「一定要救我老婆！一定要手术，哪怕砸锅卖铁，倾家荡产，哪怕她瘫痪了需要我来照顾一辈子，我也要救她！」这个家属，有点儿特别。
During the difficult preoperative conversation, the patient's husband was anxious, but one thing was absolutely certain: "Save my wife! I'll save her even if she's paralyzed and needs me to take care of her for the rest of her life!"
疫情阴影下的手术1 月 15 日星期三，因为临近新年，也因为新冠肺炎，风声鹤唳，医院平时繁忙的手术室已经变得空荡而冷清。
Surgery in the shadow of the outbreak began Wednesday, January 15, as the hospital's busy operating room became empty and deserted as the New Year neared and a new crown pneumonia loomed jittery.
患者账上欠费 2 万多，在同济骨科主任李锋教授的支持下，手术按计划进行。
Patients on the account of more than 20,000, in the orthopaedic director of Professor Li Feng support, surgery proceeded as planned.
手术方案是寰枕关节复位 + 枕颈融合术，对我们来说，枕颈融合是一个比较常规的手术，但是如何复位？寰枕关节毗邻高位颈段脊髓，内有呼吸中枢，在翻身过程中，在手术操作过程中，病人会否出现心跳呼吸骤停？为保证手术操作过程中患者的安全，我们请康复康复科支具室的医生给患者做了一个支具，支具相当于半个盔甲，覆盖患者的头颈部和上身。
The surgical procedure is atlantooccipital reduction and occipital cervical fusion. For us, occipital fusion is a more routine procedure. But how is the occipital fusion performed? Is there any cardiac arrest in the upper cervical spinal cord? To ensure the safety of the patient during the operation, we asked the RR clinic doctor to make a support equivalent to half an armour covering the head and neck and upper torso.
患者穿上支具的样子图源：本文作者供病人在下午 4 点进入手术室，麻醉科喻红辉教授进行麻醉，手术在周三晚上 7 点开始。
The author of this article will allow the patient to enter the operating room at 4: 00 p. m. and Professor Yu Honghui will be anaesthetized. The operation will begin at 7 pm on Wednesday evening.
术前准备、麻醉每一步都容不下一丝一毫的瑕疵，由同济骨科副主任熊伟教授主刀。
Preoperative preparation, anaesthesia each step can not tolerate the slightest blemish, by Tongji orthopaedic deputy director Professor Xiong Wei Dao.
一切看起来很顺利。
Everything seems to be going well.
1 月 16 日上午，病人术后第一天，躺在 ICU 病床上，全身还是瘫痪状态，身上插满了管子。
On the morning of January 16, the patient was lying on an ICU bed, paralyzed and covered with tubes.
我照例去看望她，没想到在这个寒冷的冬日，病人浮肿的脸上竟然绽放出一个顽强的笑脸。
As usual, I went to see her, but in this cold winter day, the patient's swollen face turned out to be a stubborn smiling face.
重症监护室里的笑脸图源：本文作者供Play手术CT 复查图源：本文作者提供从医多年，我很少能在 ICU 病房看到如此的笑容。
The Smiling Face in Intensive Care Unit: The author of this article provides a review of CT scans for Play surgery. The author offers years of practice and I rarely see such a smile in ICU wards.
这个笑容宽慰了我紧张的心情，也使我再次感受到希望。
This smile relieved my nervousness and made me feel hopeful again.
虽然账上欠费越来越多，治疗仍在继续。
The treatment continues, despite increasing arrears on the books.
疫情下的劫后余生2020 年 1 月 23 日，因新冠病毒的肆虐，武汉已经开始全城戒严。
Wuhan Happened to End of the Epidemic On January 23, 2020, Wuhan began a cordon bleu citywide because of the ravages of the new crown virus.
街道上一改往常的热闹，变得冷冷清清的。
The street, rather than its usual bustle, became deserted.
病人在 ICU 待了几天，一切情况在慢慢好转中，是时候转到普通病房了。
The patient stayed in the ICU for a few days, and things were slowly improving. It was time to move to the general ward.
此时欠费已经 8 万多。
By this time the arrears exceeded 80,000.
我与病房护士长陈媛老师一起去 ICU 看她。
I went to ICU with the ward's matron, Ms. Chen Yuan.
看到微笑的病人紧紧握住我的手，陈护士长顶住压力将病人转入了骨科病房，而且特意给她安排了单独房间。
Seeing the smiling patient holding my hand tightly, Master Chen resisted pressure to transfer the patient to an orthopaedic ward and arranged for her to have a separate room.
过了两天，病人又出现了发烧的症状，这一下，大家的神经高度紧张起来了。
Two days later, the patient developed symptoms of fever, which made everyone's nerves tense.
此时新冠肺炎已经在医院内部传播开来，我们病区有一位护士老师和一个患者都确诊了新冠肺炎，另外还有 5 个护士都在发烧。
By this time, New Crown Pneumonia had spread inside the hospital, a nurse teacher and a patient in our area had confirmed pneumonia, and five nurses were feverish.
患者由于气管切开，整个肺处于更加裸露的状态，比常人感染的风险要大很多。
As a result of tracheotomy, the entire lung is more exposed and has a much greater risk of infection than the average person.
患者痰液非常多，护士每天都要不停的吸痰。
The patient has a lot of sputum and the nurse sucks phlegm constantly every day.
吸痰时，病人刺激性咳嗽，气流喷薄而出，如果病人是新冠肺炎感染者，那我们的护士也很容易被感染。
When inhaling sputum, the patient coughs irritatingly, the airflow glows out, and if the patient is infected with pneumonia, our nurse is also susceptible to infection.
所幸病人做了肺部 CT，只是细菌感染，并没有发现有病毒肺炎的表现。
Fortunately, the patient had lung CT, only bacterial infection, did not find any signs of viral pneumonia.
我再三跟病人家属强调，一定要呆在病房，严禁离开，以免感染新冠肺炎。
I repeatedly stressed to the patient's family, must stay in the ward, strictly forbidden to leave, so as not to infect the new crown pneumonia.
这样的情况在后来的半个月又出现了两次，但所幸每次检查，都不是新冠肺炎。
This was repeated twice in the next half-month, but fortunately each visit did not prove to be New Crown Pneumonia.
此时，尽管患者家属想尽办法，但账上已经欠了 10 万元，所幸已经逐渐脱离危险，开始慢慢康复了。
At this point, although the patient's family tried to do everything possible, but the account has been $100,000, fortunately has gradually emerged from the danger, began to recover slowly.
她在同济医院住了将近两个月，除了刚开始 4 天，其他时间一直处于欠费状态。
She stayed in Tongji Hospital for almost two months and remained in arrears at all times except for the first four days.
现在病人四肢肌力都达到了 4+，气管切开的位置也在慢慢封闭中，又可以讲话了。
Now the muscle strength of the patient's limbs has reached 4 +, the position of tracheotomy is slowly closed, can speak again.
如果不是疫情，病人现在其实就可以走着出院了。
Had it not been for the outbreak, the patient would have been able to walk out of the hospital now.
患者和医生图源：本文作者供患者下颌骨骨折还亟待手术处理，以后康复的路还很长，虽然一无所有，但希望一直都还在。
Patients and doctors: This article for patients with mandibular fractures is still urgent surgery, the road to recovery is still long, although there is nothing, but hope is still there.
（责编：joy）。
(Joy).
丁香园 DXY。
DXY, Lilac Garden.
更懂中国医生。
Know more about Chinese doctors.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
已喜欢，对作者说句悄悄话。
Like it, whisper to the author.
发送给作者。
Send to author.
最多40字，当前共字。
Up to 40 words, currently in common.
更懂中国医生。
Know more about Chinese doctors.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
九死一生的车祸患者，疫情下的劫后余生。
A victim of a deadly car accident, the rest of his life.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "丁香园";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "九死一生的车祸患者，疫情下的劫后余生";。
var msg _ title = & quot; a victim of a fatal car accident, or at least & quot; s life with the epidemic.
var msg_desc = "以后康复的路还很长，虽然一无所有，但希望一直都还在。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="丁香园";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
