特别记录 | 一份不愿更新的名单。
Special records and # 124; A list that it does not wish to update.
袁颖。
Yuan Ying.
第一财经YiMagazine                      。
First Finance Yi Magazine.
第一财经YiMagazine。
First Finance Yi Magazine.
这里是《第一财经》杂志（前身《第一财经周刊》）读者俱乐部，我们为你发掘精彩的商业价值，也邀请你一起探寻明亮的商业世界。
This is the Reader's Club of First Finance Magazine (formerly the First Finance Weekly), where we discover the great commercial value and invite you to explore the bright business world.
。
.
实习记者 | 袁  颖编辑 | 许诗雨疫情让人们深刻了解到医疗资源的可贵。
Rain Yuan & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Editing & # 144; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
某种意义上，保护医护人员和医学技术人士就是保护其他人的生命。
In a sense, protecting health-care workers and medical technologists is protecting the lives of others.
然而，医护人员的职业特殊性意味着他们在疫情中受到感染的风险更高。
However, the professional specificity of health-care workers means that they are at higher risk of infection in the context of the epidemic.
2月17日，我们第一次在公众号上用记录在这次新冠肺炎疫情中逝去医务工作者名字的方式表达敬意。
On February 17, for the first time, we paid homage to the public in the form of the names of the medical workers who died in the outbreak.
在新出版的《第一财经》杂志中，我们收录了这份名录并做了更新。
In the new issue of First Finance magazine, we have included this list and updated it.
虽然我们也曾希望这份名单再也没有更新。
Although we had hoped that the list would not be updated again.
但在那之后，又有一些医护人员离开了我们。
But after that, some paramedics left us.
同时，随着更多信息披露，更多牺牲者的名字被统计到了相关名录中。
Meanwhile, as more information came to light, more names of victims were added to the list.
因此，我们在此更新这份名单，再次用铭记致敬。
Therefore, we are here to update this list and pay tribute once again to that memory.
姜继军 51岁江苏泰州市人民医院感染科医生1月23日，姜继军医生在奔赴发热门诊时，因呼吸心跳骤停逝世。
Jiang Jijun 51-year-old Jiangsu Taizhou People's Hospital Infection Doctor January 23, Jiang Jijun rushed to the fever clinic, died of cardiac arrest due to breathing.
梁武东 62岁湖北省中西医结合医院(新华医院)耳鼻喉科原主任医师梁武东擅长显微耳神经外科、鼻内窥镜微创手术、鼾症、小儿耳鼻咽喉疾病、嗓音疾病的内外科治疗。
Liang Wudong, 62 years old, is a former chief physician in the department of otolaryngology of Hubei Province (Xinhua Hospital). Liang Wudong specializes in microsurgery, nasal endoscopic minimally invasive surgery, snoring, otorhinopharyngeal diseases and voice diseases.
鼾症喉癌功能性手术技术精湛，对分泌性中耳炎治疗方法独特，在嗓音内外科矫治领域颇有心得。
The functional operation technique of snoring laryngeal carcinoma is superb, the treatment of secretory otitis media is unique, in the field of voice surgery correction is quite knowledgeable.
1月16日，梁武东疑似感染新型冠状病毒肺炎，18日，其转到金银潭医院就诊。
January 16, Liang Wudong suspected to be infected with a new coronavirus pneumonia, 18, its transfer to the gold and silver pool hospital.
后经救治无效，梁武东于2020年1月25日早上7时许去世。
After treatment was ineffective, Liang Wudong died at about 7 a.m. on January 25, 2020.
包长命50岁内蒙古科右前旗察尔森镇沙力根嘎查村医2020年新冠肺炎疫情爆发后，他承担起全村30多名返乡人员的排查和健康检测工作。
Bao Chang-long life 50 years old Inner Mongolia Korik right front flag Charson Township Shaligan Gacha village doctor 2020 outbreak, he took over 30 village back home screening and health testing work.
1月26日，在排查检测完第14名返乡人员后，包长命突发脑出血晕倒在返回卫生室的路上，于2020年1月27日不幸离世。
On 26 January, after completing the screening and testing of the fourteenth returnee, he fainted on his way back to the health centre with a long-lived cerebral hemorrhage and died on 27 January 2020.
毛样洪52岁福建省南平市浦城县仙阳镇中心卫生院副院长1月25日晚9时许，在驻守高速检查站检测过往车辆乘员体温时被一辆轿车撞伤，后经抢救无效逝世。
Mao-like Hong 52-year-old Fujian Province Pucheng County Pu Cheng County Central Health Center Vice-Dean January 25 around 9: 00 p.m., while manning a high-speed checkpoint to check the temperature of the occupants of vehicles was injured by a car, and later died after rescue.
蒋金波58岁赣州市大余县疾控中心艾滋病防治科副科长疫情出现后，蒋金波主动请缨成为流行病学调查组的一员。
Jiang Jinbo 58 years old Ganzhou City CDC AIDS control center deputy section of the emergence of the epidemic, Jiang Jinbo volunteered to become a member of the epidemiological investigation team.
1月28日晚，蒋金波在和同事下乡指导消杀工作回到家中后，突感胸痛不适。
On the night of January 28, Jiang Jinbo and his colleagues in the countryside to guide the elimination of work back home, sudden chest pain.
在被送往大余县人民医院后，诊断考虑为心肌梗死，遂转送至赣州市人民医院。
After being sent to Dayu County People's Hospital, the diagnosis was considered as myocardial infarction and was transferred to Ganzhou People's Hospital.
终经抢救无效，于1月28日23时50分离世。
Eventually, rescue efforts failed and he was separated at 2350 hours on 28 January.
张辉56岁湖南省卫生计生综合监督局党委书记、局长张辉连续16天工作在抗疫一线，突发急性心肌梗塞，于2020年1月31日晚送医抢救无效去世。
Zhang Hui 56-year-old Hunan Health and Family Planning Bureau party secretary, director Zhang Hui 16 consecutive days of work in the frontline of the epidemic, acute myocardial infarction, on the night of January 31, 2020 sent medical emergency rescue dead.
宋云花46岁云南省保山市隆阳区青华街道太平社区卫生室医生2020年1月31日13时30分许，开展了一上午防疫工作的宋云花医生，在前往沈官园1号地的途中遭遇车祸，抢救无效不幸去世。
At about 1330 hours on January 31, 2020, Dr. Song Yunhua, a 46-year-old doctor in Taiping Community Health Room, Qinghua Street, Longyang District, Baoshan City, Yunnan Province, carried out epidemic prevention work all morning.
宋英杰28岁湖南省衡山县东湖镇马迹卫生院药剂组副组长自2020年1月25日（农历大年初一）起，宋英杰加入抗击新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情岳临高速东湖高速路口收费站体温检测排查团队，连续十天九夜奋斗在防控一线。
Song Yingjie 28-year-old Hunan Hengshan County Donghu Town Ma Tian Hospital Pharmacy Group since January 25, 2020 (Lunar New Year's Day), Song Yingjie joined the fight against the new coronavirus infection pneumonia epidemic Yue in the high-speed East Lake toll booth temperature screening team, 10 consecutive days and nights struggle in the prevention and control front.
2月3日零点值班结束交接完班后回到宿舍，因过度劳累引发心源性猝死。
February 3 duty at the end of the handover after returning to the dormitory, due to excessive fatigue caused sudden cardiac death.
姚留记68岁河南省平顶山市郏县冢头镇北街村党支部委员、卫生室医生2020年2月4日13时9分，姚留记突然昏倒在执勤岗位上，后经抢救无效不幸去世。
Yao Liuzhi 68 years old No Jiaxian No No Xian No No Xian Xian No. North Street Village, Henan Province On February 4, 2020 at 13: 09, Yao Liuji suddenly fainted on duty and died after unsuccessful rescue.
张建华49岁陕西咸阳市旬邑县湫坡头镇卫生院公共卫生科职工新冠肺炎疫情来袭时，张建华第一时间在全镇开展疫情知识宣传，落实防护措施。
Zhang Jianhua 49 years old Shanxi Xianyang Xunyi Xunyi town health center public health department staff new crown pneumonia outbreak, Zhang Jianhua the first time in the town to carry out epidemic knowledge dissemination, implementation of protective measures.
他联合18名乡村医生，对镇上的外来人口及存在风险做排查，及时掌握40多名湖北返乡人员的情况，上报县卫健部门。
Together with 18 village doctors, he screened the town's migrant population and the risks involved, promptly grasped the situation of more than 40 Hubei returnees and reported it to the county health department.
2020年2月5日，在新冠肺炎防控工作中，张建华因心脏病抢救无效去世。
On February 5, 2020, Zhang Jianhua died of a heart attack during the prevention and control of New Crown Pneumonia.
徐辉51岁南京市中医院副院长作为新型冠状病毒感染肺炎防治工作小组组长，徐辉连日来一直奋战在抗疫一线。
Xu Hui, the 51-year-old Vice-President of Nanjing Chinese Hospital, as the new coronavirus infection pneumonia prevention and treatment team leader, Xu Hui has been fighting against the epidemic for days.
2月6日晚，徐辉开会后回到家中感到身体不适，因突发疾病入院后抢救无效，于2月7日0时3分离世，享年51岁。
Xu returned home on the evening of February 6, feeling unwell. He was admitted to hospital with a medical emergency and was discharged at 0003 hours on February 7 at the age of 51.
李文亮 34岁武汉市中心医院眼科医生、抗击新型冠状病毒肺炎一线医生，因最早于2019年12月30日向外界发出防护预警，而被称为疫情“吹哨人”。
Li Wenliang, 34, an ophthalmologist at Wuhan Central Hospital and a front-line doctor fighting the new coronavirus pneumonia, is known as the "whistle blower" for the outbreak, as early as December 30, 2019.
李文亮2011年毕业于武汉大学，医学博士，湖北省眼科协会委员，参与国家自然科学基金、武汉大学基金等科研项目，从事眼科临床工作多年，擅长眼底病、白内障、青光眼的诊治。
Li Wenliang graduated from Wuhan University in 2011. He holds a PhD in medicine and is a member of the Hubei Ophthalmology Association. He has been engaged in ophthalmological clinical work for many years, specializing in the diagnosis and treatment of fundus diseases, cataracts and glaucoma.
发表SCI等高水平论文多篇，现就职于武汉市中心医院眼科，对眼科的常见病特别是疑难病诊治精确，每周六日坐诊。
I have published many high-level papers, such as SCI, now work in Wuhan city central hospital ophthalmology, eye common diseases, especially difficult diseases, accurate diagnosis and treatment, six days a week.
1月8日，因接诊一位女性患者时未做特殊防护，李文亮感染了新型冠状病毒性肺炎。
On January 8, Li Wenliang contracted a new coronavirus pneumonia after receiving a female patient without special protection.
李文亮于1月10日出现咳嗽症状，11日开始发热，12日住院，14日因病情加重转入呼吸内科重症监护室，采用抗生素、激素、抗病毒类药物和高流量吸氧治疗。
Li Wenliang on January 10 cough symptoms, 11 began fever, 12 days of hospitalization, 14 days due to the aggravation of the disease into the intensive care unit of respiratory medicine, antibiotics, hormones, antiviral drugs and high-volume oxygen treatment.
2月1日李文亮确诊新冠肺炎，住院期间其病情时常反复。
On February 1, Li Wenliang confirmed the new crown pneumonia, his condition is often repeated in hospital.
2月6日晚上9时左右，有媒体发布了李文亮去世的消息，同时也有消息称李文亮正在接受ECMO抢救，7日0点38分，武汉中心医院官微发布消息表示，李文亮医生“目前病危，正在全力抢救中”。
On February 6 around 9 p.m., the media announced the death of Li Wenliang, there is also news that Li Wenliang is receiving ECMO rescue, 7 0: 38, Wuhan Central Hospital micro-issued a message that Dr. Lee "is critically ill, is in full rescue.
据官方消息，2月7日凌晨2点58分，李文亮经抢救无效在武汉中心医院去世。
According to official sources, Li Wenliang died in Wuhan Central Hospital at 2: 58 a.m. on February 7 after receiving rescue efforts.
红凌 53岁华中科技大学生命科学与技术学院教授、博士生导师、楚天学者（特聘教授）、中国抗癌协会纳米肿瘤学会委员、中国稀有疾病研究联盟全国协调主任。
Hongling 53-year-old Professor, Ph.D. Tutor, Chu Tian Scholar, Member of the Chinese Association Against Cancer Nano-Oncology, National Coordination Director of the China Rare Diseases Research Alliance.
2007年，红凌接受华中科技大学的邀请，出任生命科学与技术学院教授、博士生导师，毕生以模式动物果蝇和人体细胞为模型，研究人体重大疾病如肿瘤、心血管疾病等的基因和蛋白调控机制及调控网络，主要研究与人体重大疾病及稀有疾病相关的基因UBIAD1的分子机制，在该研究领域做出了重大贡献。
In 2007, Hong Ling accepted an invitation from Huazhong University of Science and Technology to become a professor and doctoral supervisor of the School of Life Sciences and Technology. She has devoted her whole life to studying the regulatory mechanisms and networks of genes and proteins in major human diseases such as tumours and cardiovascular diseases.
红凌教授因患新冠肺炎医治无效，于2020年2月7日23时在协和医院逝世。
Professor Hong Ling died at Concorde Hospital on February 7, 2020 at 2300 hours after failing to treat her new crown pneumonia.
肖俊40岁武汉市红十字会医院（又称协和武汉红十字会医院）普外科医生肖俊在抗击疫情一线不幸感染新冠肺炎，2020年1月26日在武汉红十字医院住院治疗，1月27日，转武汉市金银潭医院治疗，后因病情恶化，经抢救无效，于2020年2月8日18时13分在武汉市金银潭医院去世。
Xiao Jun, 40-year-old Wuhan Red Cross Hospital (also known as the Wuhan Red Cross Hospital) General Surgeon Xiao Jun was admitted to Wuhan Red Cross Hospital on January 26, 2020. He was admitted to Wuhan Red Cross Hospital on January 27, 2020.
张军浩57岁黄冈市疾控中心预防医学门诊部副主任张军浩1月24日(腊月三十)被抽调到市指挥部联防联控组，负责指导社区消杀和督导联防联控，一直没休息。
Zhang Junhao 57-year-old Huanggang City CDC preventive medicine clinic deputy director Zhang Junhao January 24 (Dao 30) was transferred to the city headquarters joint control unit to guide the community killing and supervision of the joint defense, has not been rest.
2月9日，指挥部安排他第一次轮休。
On 9 February, the headquarters arranged his first rotation.
由于疲惫，张军浩睡到下午3点才起床，妻子张柳准备午餐时，发现他倒在客厅地上。
Because of exhaustion, Zhang Junhao did not get up until 3 pm. When his wife, Zhang Liu, prepared lunch, she found him lying on the floor of the living room.
等120救护车赶到，他心跳已停止。
By the time 120 ambulances arrived, his heart had stopped.
2020年2月9日，张军浩因突发心肌梗塞抢救无效去世。
On February 9, 2020, Zhang Jun Hao died of a heart attack.
林正斌 63岁中国知名移植专家、华中科技大学同济医学院附属同济医院器官移植科原副主任医师林正斌于1983年获得临床医学学士学位，毕业后一直在同济医院器官移植研究所工作，曾赴日本金泽医科大学进修学习，于2017年7月退休并返聘。
Lin Zhengbin, a 63-year-old well-known transplant specialist in China and former deputy director of organ transplantation at Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, received his bachelor's degree in clinical medicine in 1983.
曾担任武汉医学会器官移植分会副主任委员。
Has served as Wuhan Medical Association organ transplant branch vice-chairman.
林正斌从事器官移植近四十年，在肾移植手术、术后管理和危重病人救治方面成绩显著，曾在新型免疫抑制剂的应用和器官保存液的研发方面贡献突出。
Lin Zhengbin has been engaged in organ transplantation for nearly 40 years. He has made remarkable achievements in kidney transplantation, post-operative management and treatment of critically ill patients.
据南方都市报消息，林正斌被感染前仍在工作， 直至1月24日林正斌仍在家隔离治疗，之后病情未见好转才住院治疗，具体何时、如何被感染尚且不知，他的家人也因感染新冠肺炎正在治疗中。
Lin was still at work until January 24, when and how he became infected, and his family is being treated for pneumonia, according to the Southern Metropolis Daily.
2月10日11时，林正斌经华中科技大学同济医学院附属同济医院全力抢救无效去世。
February 10 11: 00, Lin Zhengbin Huazhong University of Science and Technology Tongji Hospital attached to the Tongji Hospital died.
邱飚51岁湖北省武汉市硚口区古田街社区卫生服务中心副主任因感染新冠肺炎，邱飚于2020年2月10日抢救无效去世。
Qiu Biao, 51 years old, deputy director of Gutianjie Community Health Service Center, Zhengkou District, Wuhan City, Hubei Province, died on February 10, 2020 after suffering from pneumonia.
王土成 37岁河南省长葛市董村镇新王庄村村医疫情防控工作开展以来，新王庄村共排查出3名途经武汉返乡的村民，对3户家庭实行居家医学隔离。
Wang Tucheng 37-year-old Henan Province Changge City Dong village new Wang Zhuangcun village medical prevention and control work, a total of three villagers through Wuhan returned home, three families were medically isolated at home.
王土成每天都要到隔离人员家庭测量两次体温，并指导他们家庭消毒。
Mr. Wang goes to the quarantined person's home twice a day to take his temperature and instruct them to disinfect their homes.
此外，王土成还积极宣传疫情防控知识，每天在村里的微信群里讲解什么是新冠肺炎、传播途径以及怎样预防等，增加了村民应对疫情的信心。
In addition, Wang Tucheng actively publicized the disease prevention and control knowledge, daily in the village micro-letter group to explain what is the new crown pneumonia, how to spread and how to prevent, and so on, increased villagers' confidence in dealing with the epidemic.
在连续多日的新冠肺炎疫情防控工作中，王土成因劳累过度，于2020年2月10日突发急性心肌梗死。
In a series of days of prevention and control of new crown pneumonia, the cause of the royal soil overworked, acute myocardial infarction on February 10, 2020.
陈健26岁云南省彝良县奎香乡寸田村村医2020年2月12日，她下乡开展新冠肺炎疫情防控工作，对居家观察对象做体温测量，在返回村卫生室途中不幸发生交通事故受重伤，经抢救无效死亡。
Chen Jian 26-year-old Yunnan Province Yi Liang County Kuixiang township village doctor February 12, 2020, she went to the countryside to carry out the new crown pneumonia epidemic prevention and control work, the home observation subjects temperature measurement, on the way back to the village health room accident seriously injured, after rescue failed to die.
许德甫62岁中医主任医师、鄂州名医、湖北中医药大学兼职教授、北京中医药大学付延龄医学研究中心研究员、湖北省中医中药学会脾胃病专业委员会常务委员、鄂州市中医中药学会常务理事。
Xu Defu, 62, chief physician of TCM, an adjunct professor at Hubei University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, a researcher at Fu Longying Medical Research Center of Beijing TCM University, Standing Committee Member of Spleen and Gastric Disease Committee of Hubei Traditional Chinese Medicine Society, and Managing Director of Huzhou Traditional Chinese Medicine Society.
在长期临床实践中，逐步摸索了一套临床经验，形成自身的医疗特色，临床用药灵活，以廉、简、便、验见长，对疑难杂症的诊治颇有心得，特别是对肝胆脾胃病的诊治有独到之处，对胃病、消化道、糖尿病等疾病的治疗亦经验丰富。
In the long-term clinical practice, gradually grope for a set of clinical experience, form their own medical characteristics, clinical drug use flexibility, to save money, simple, convenient, long-term experience, the diagnosis and treatment of difficult diseases, especially the liver, gallbladder, stomach disease, treatment of stomach, digestive tract, diabetes and other diseases has unique experience.
发表学术论文50余篇，出版《中西药不合理联用150例》、《中西医结合治疗常见肿瘤的良方妙法》等专著8部。
More than 50 academic papers have been published, including 150 cases of unreasonable use of Chinese and Western medicine, and 8 monographs on the combination of traditional Chinese and Western medicine in the treatment of common cancers.
2020年2月13日，许德甫因感染新型冠状病毒肺炎去世。
On February 13, 2020, Xu Defu died of pneumonia, a new coronavirus.
刘筱娴 83岁华中科技大学同济医学院公共卫生学院教授、研究生导师、中华预防医学会社会医学学会常务理事、儿童保健学会常务理事、湖北妇幼保健管理学会副理事长、湖北省性学会副理事长、中国疾病预防控制中心妇幼保健中心顾问委员会委员、湖北省儿童全面发展研究会理事长、中华预防医学会武汉妇幼保健学会主任委员、华中科技大学同济医学院伤害控制研究中心荣誉主任、学术委员会主任委员。
Professor, Graduate Tutor, School of Public Health, Tongji School of Medicine, CUHK; Executive Director, Chinese Society of Preventive Medicine; Vice-President, Hubei Institute of Maternal and Child Health; Vice-President, Hubei Institute of Maternal and Child Health; Chairman, Wuhan Society of Preventive Medicine; Honorary Director, Injury Control Research Center, Tongji Medical School, CUHK; Chairman, Academic Council.
刘筱娴是我国高等教育妇幼卫生专业创建者。
Liu Xiaoxian is the founder of maternal and child health specialty in higher education.
为培养妇幼专业人才，她于1985年创办我国第一个本科妇幼卫生专业，为国家培养了一大批妇幼保健专业人才并成为我国妇幼卫生事业的中坚力量。
To train professional women and children, in 1985 she founded China's first undergraduate course in maternal and child health care, trained a large number of women and children professionals and became the backbone of China's maternal and child health cause.
刘筱娴还是国家农村基层保健网的建设者。
Liu Xiaoxian is also the national rural grass-roots health network builders.
在1970 年代，她选定革命老区麻城县为基地，以报出生、报死亡、报传染病、报肿瘤发病(“四报”) 为主要内容建立了农村基层三级妇幼保健网。
In the 1970s, she selected the old revolutionary district of Massachusetts as a base to report births, deaths, reported infectious diseases and reported tumours ("four newspapers") as the main content to establish a rural grass-roots three-level maternal and child health care network.
她在20年间培养了大批乡村医生，她的工作也使得麻城县被联合国儿童基金会列入全国第一批妇幼卫生示范县。
She trained a large number of village doctors in 20 years, and her work led to her being listed by UNICEF as one of the first maternal and child health model counties in the country.
2月13日，刘筱娴因医治无效在武汉同济医院逝世。
February 13, Liu Xiaoxian invalid medical treatment in Wuhan Tongji Hospital died.
柳帆59岁武汉武昌医院梨园街社区卫生院服务中心注射室护士2月15日，武汉武昌医院发布消息称，因年资较长，柳帆没有被安排去发热门诊导医台，预检分诊台等一线工作，始终在社区从事注射工作。
Liu Fan 59-year-old Wuhan Wuchang Hospital Li Yuen Street Community Health Center Injection Room Nurse, Wuhan Wuchang Hospital said Feb. 15, because of the long experience, willow sail has not been arranged to heat out-patient clinic, pre-check-up clinic and other frontline work, always doing injection work in the community.
据悉，柳帆在生前主动申请了延迟退休。
It is reported that Liufan in his own initiative to apply for delayed retirement.
2月14日17：30左右，柳帆出现心脏骤停，后于18：30左右因抢救无效去世。
February 14 around 17: 30, willow sail suddenly stopped heart, and then around 18: 30 because rescue failed to die.
陈祥田36岁江西省芦溪县银河镇长竹村长布卫生计生服务室乡村医生1月27日下午，陈祥田因劳累过度诱发疾病被紧急送往医院检查抢救，诊断为急性髓系白血病，经全力救治无效于2020年2月14日中午去世。
Chen Xiangtian 36-year-old Jiangxi Luxi County Yinhe Village Chief Bamboo Health and Family Service Room Village Doctor Chen Xiangtian was rushed to hospital on the afternoon of January 27 because of excessive fatigue caused by illness, diagnosis of acute myeloid leukemia, after full treatment futile died on February 14, 2020.
段正澄 86岁中国工程院院士、华中科技大学机械科学与工程学院教授、制造装备数字化国家工程研究中心首席科学家、机械制造与自动化专家1996年，段正澄将机械科学与放疗医学相结合，研发了国际首台全身伽马刀。
Duan Zhengcheng 86-year-old academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, Professor of Mechanical Sciences and Engineering of Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Chief Scientist of the National Engineering Research Center for Digitalization of Manufacturing Equipment and Expert in Mechanical Manufacturing and Automation.
1999年，段正澄研发的世界首台大型放疗设备——全身伽马刀问世，全身伽马刀可进行旋转动态聚焦，使伽马射线焦点对准经过精密定位后的肿瘤，从而杀死肿瘤细胞，大大降低对人体正常组织和器官的损伤。
In 1999, Danzheng Cheng-cheng developed the world's first large-scale radiotherapy device, the gamma knife, which rotates and focuses gamma rays on precisely located tumors, killing tumor cells and greatly reducing damage to normal tissues and organs.
目前已在全国100多家医院使用，惠及近百万人。
It is now in use in more than 100 hospitals throughout the country, benefiting nearly 1 million people.
段正澄教授于1月29日确诊了新型冠状病毒肺炎，其本身患有糖尿病等基础疾病，最终因医治无效，于2月15日19时35分在医院逝世。
Professor Duan Zhengcheng confirmed the case of a new coronavirus pneumonia on January 29. He suffered from basic diseases such as diabetes and died at 19: 35 on February 15 due to ineffective medical treatment.
左汉文湖北省广水市太平镇群联村卫生所医生左汉文在新冠肺炎疫情防控工作中，突发心脏病，于2020年2月15日不幸逝世。
Left Hanwen, a doctor at Liancun Health Center, Taiping Town Group, Guangshui City, Hubei Province, died on February 15, 2020 after suffering a heart attack during the prevention and control of pneumonia.
刘智明51岁武汉武昌医院院长，湖北中医药大学和江汉大学硕士研究生导师刘智明1991年毕业于武汉大学医学院，擅长颅脑外伤、颅内肿瘤、脑血管病及椎管内病的诊断和治疗，特别擅长神经外科疾病手术治疗。
Liu Zhiming, 51, director of Wuhan Wuchang Hospital, Hubei University of Chinese Medicine, and Liu Zhiming, a master's degree supervisor from Jianghan University, graduated from Wuhan University School of Medicine in 1991. He specializes in the diagnosis and treatment of craniocerebral trauma, intracranial tumors, cerebrovascular diseases and intravertebral diseases.
刘智明2013年曾被武昌区委区政府授予“武昌英才”荣誉称号、2014年获“武汉市人民政府博士资助”人选、2015年获武汉市“十百千人才工程”人选。
In 2013, Liu Zhiming was awarded the honorary title of "Wuchang Talent" by the regional government of Wuchang District, a candidate for PhD funding from Wuhan Municipal People's Government in 2014, and a candidate for the "Ten Thousand Talent Project" in Wuhan City in 2015.
直至确诊前，刘智明始终工作在抗疫第一线。
Until the diagnosis, Liu Zhiming has been working in the first line of the epidemic.
1月23日，接收完病人的刘智明表示自己身体不舒服，当时刘智明已经连续多日发热，24日检查的CT结果显示，肺部感染严重，刘智明很快被收进了ICU。
After receiving the patient on January 23, Liu said he was unwell, having been feverish for days, and CT findings on the 24th showed a severe lung infection and Liu was admitted to the ICU.
1月28日，核酸确诊阳性。
On 28 January, nucleic acid was confirmed positive.
2月18日上午10:30，刘智明因感染新冠肺炎抢救无效逝世。
Feb. 18, 10: 30 am, Liu Zhiming died of pneumonia due to infection.
王兵73岁武汉市洪山区王兵西医内科诊所主治医师因在新冠肺炎疫情防控期间感染新冠肺炎，王兵于2020年2月18日不幸逝世。
Wang Bing 73-year-old Wuhan Hongshan Wang Bing Western Medicine Clinic doctor for the new crown pneumonia during the prevention and control of the new crown pneumonia, Wang Bing died on February 18, 2020.
彭银华29岁武汉市江夏区第一人民医院/协和江南医院呼吸与危重症医学科医生据江夏融媒1月28日报道，彭银华医生本打算正月初八举办婚礼，但因疫情来袭，他延迟婚期上一线，办公桌抽屉里还放着没来得及分发的请柬。
Dr. Peng Yinhua, 29, was planning to hold his wedding on January 8, but because of the outbreak of the disease, he delayed his wedding and had an invitation card in his desk drawer that had not been distributed.
“疫情不散，婚期延迟”，也是彭银华和妻子达成的共识。
"The epidemic is not over, marriage is delayed," Peng Yinhua and his wife reached a consensus.
1月25日，彭银华感染新冠肺炎后入住江夏区第一人民医院接受救治；1月30日因病情加重，医院紧急将其送往武汉市金银潭医院治疗。
On January 25, Peng Yinhua was admitted to Jiangxia First People's Hospital for treatment after contracting pneumonia.
2月20日21时50分，因病情恶化，经抢救无效，彭银华在武汉市金银潭医院去世。
At 2150 hours on February 20, Peng Yinhua died at the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital in Wuhan after failing to rescue him.
吴忠泽50岁武汉天安医院体检部主任吴忠泽医生连续半个月奋斗在新冠肺炎疫情防控一线，因突发脑溢血于2020年2月20日抢救无效去世。
Wu Zhongze 50-year-old Wuhan Tianan Hospital Medical Director Wu Zhongze for half a month in the first line of prevention and control of the new crown pneumonia, due to sudden cerebral haemorrhage on February 20, 2020 rescue died.
夏思思29岁武汉协和江北医院消化内科住院医师夏思思在救治患者过程中不幸感染新冠肺炎，1月19日，她突然发起高烧，经检查发现肺部CT磨玻璃影改变，高度疑似，随后在武汉协和江北医院隔离治疗。
Xiaxis, 29, Wuhan Concorde Jiangbei Hospital Digestive Medicine resident Xiaxis in the treatment of patients with pneumonia, January 19, she suddenly launched a high fever, examination found that the lung CT grinding glass shadow, highly suspected, and then in Wuhan Concorde Jiangbei hospital for treatment.
2月7日半夜，夏思思病情突然加重，呼吸、心跳骤停，医院连夜组织抢救，保住了生命，但一直处于昏迷状态，血氧饱和度很低，在上了ECMO（人工心肺）后立马转至武汉大学中南医院。
February 7 midnight, Xia Si suddenly aggravated illness, breathing, cardiac arrest, the hospital overnight organization rescue, saved life, but has been in a coma, blood oxygen saturation is very low, immediately after ECMO (artificial cardiopulmonary) transfer to Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital.
在ICU夏思思病情血压波动大，于2月23日凌晨6:30分，抢救无效离世。
In ICU summer sickness blood pressure fluctuation, February 23 at 6: 30 a.m., rescue failed to die.
杜显圣55岁海南省琼中黎族自治县阳江医院医生1月22日杜显圣到儋州市人民医院就诊，医院怀疑其被新型冠状病毒感染，1月24日采样送检，1月25日新型冠状病毒核酸检测阳性，被确诊为新型冠状病毒肺炎，随即由儋州市人民医院转到海南省人民医院。
Du Xiangsheng 55-year-old Henan Province Qiongzhong Li County Yangjiang Hospital doctor January 22 Danzhou People's Hospital Danzhou City Hospital, suspected of being infected with the new coronavirus, January 24 sample sent for inspection, January 25, a new coronavirus positive, confirmed as a new coronavirus pneumonia, immediately transferred from Danzhou People's Hospital to Hainan Province People's Hospital.
杜显圣1月26日病情恶化告病危，此后，省人民医院每天组织两次病历讨论，并请院外远程会诊14次，包括王辰院士、李兰娟院士、广州呼吸病研究所黎毅敏教授，指挥部省级专家组组织会诊6次；组织救治70余次，其中重大抢救9次；70余名医务人员参与治疗和抢救，采取了呼吸机辅助治疗、气管切开、人工膜肺（ECMO）支持心肺功能、输入康复者血浆等各种救治措施。
Since then, the Provincial People's Hospital has organized two daily medical records discussions and 14 consultation sessions with people outside the hospital, including Academician Wang Chen, Academician Li Lanjuan and Professor Li Yi-min of Guangzhou Respiratory Disease Research Institute.
但由于其病情恶化，抢救无效，于2月23日12：36心跳骤停，13：50确认死亡。
However, due to the deterioration of his condition, rescue efforts failed, on 23 February at 12: 36 cardiac arrest, 13: 50 confirmed death.
黄文军42岁孝感市中心医院呼吸内科副主任医师黄文军在抗击新型冠状病毒肺炎的战役中不幸被感染，经多方抢救医治无效，于2020年2月23日下午19时30分，不幸牺牲。
Huang Wenjun 42-year-old filial piety city hospital deputy director of respiratory medicine physician Huang Wenjun in the battle against the new coronavirus pneumonia unfortunately infected, after multi-rescue medical treatment failed, 23 February 2020 at 1930 hours, unfortunately died.
崔靖56岁湖北省京山市卫生健康局党组成员崔靖在新冠肺炎疫情防控工作期间，突发急性肾功能衰竭，于2020年2月24日经抢救无效因公殉职。
Cui Jing, 56, a member of the Party Group of the Jingshan Health Bureau of Hubei Province, died in the line of duty on February 24, 2020 after suffering acute renal failure during the prevention and control of the new crown pneumonia epidemic.
江学庆55岁武汉市中心医院甲状腺乳腺外科党支部书记、主任、主任医师江学庆医生在抗击新冠肺炎疫情工作中不幸染病，经全力抢救无效，于2020年3月1日凌晨5点32分在武汉市肺科医院去世。
Jiang Xueqing 55-year-old Wuhan Central Hospital Thyroid Breast Surgery Branch Secretary, Director and Chief Physician Dr. Jiang Xueqing died on March 1, 2020 at 5: 32 a.m. in Wuhan City Lung Hospital after failing to do his utmost to save him.
梅仲明57岁武汉市中心医院眼科副主任、主任医师据公开资料显示，梅仲明擅长青光眼、白内障、眼后段等疾病的诊断、治疗，曾荣获武汉市“光明特使”称号。
Mei Zhongming 57-year-old Wuhan City Central Hospital, deputy director of ophthalmology, director of the doctor, according to open data showed that Mezhongming good at glaucoma, cataract, posterior segment of the eye, and has been named "special envoy of light" in Wuhan.
梅仲明在抗击新冠肺炎疫情工作中不幸感染新冠肺炎，经全力抢救无效，于2020年3月3日中午12时在武汉市金银潭医院去世。
On March 3, 2020, Mei Zhongming died at 12: 00 noon in Wuhan city after failing to save his newly infected crown pneumonia.
朱和平69岁武汉市中心医院眼科副主任医师朱和平医生退休后被医院返聘，担任武汉市中心医院眼科副主任医师，擅长眼底病诊断治疗，眼前后节激光治疗。
Zhu Heping, 69, deputy director of ophthalmology at Wuhan Central Hospital, was rehired by the hospital after his retirement as deputy chief ophthalmologist at Wuhan Central Hospital.
朱和平医生于2月中旬入院治疗，3月9日上午抢救无效，不幸离世。
Dr. Zhu was admitted to hospital in mid-February and died on the morning of 9 March after failing to rescue him.
至此，武汉市中心医院在抗疫中已有四位医生因感染新冠肺炎不幸去世。
So far, Wuhan city central hospital in the fight against the disease has four doctors died of pneumonia due to the new crown.
此外，在国家卫建委3月5日发布的“全国卫生健康系统新冠肺炎疫情防控工作先进个人名单”中，还收录了以下几位我们尚未获得完整身份信息的医务工作者：邓林  年龄不详，武汉急救中心科员病因、逝世时间不详阮惠芳 年龄不详，湖北省长江航运总医院技师病因、逝世时间不详张抗美 年龄不详，武汉市硚口区宝丰街社区卫生服务中心医师病因、逝世时间不详陈清山年龄不详，荆门市京山仁和医院主治医师病因、逝世时间不详周宗德 年龄不详，武汉科技大学附属天佑医院技术工三级病因、逝世时间不详2月16日，全国第1、第2例新冠肺炎逝世患者的遗体解剖工作在武汉金银潭医院完成，并成功拿到新冠肺炎病理。
In addition, the state health committee on March 5 released the "National Health Health System New Crown Pneumonia advanced personnel list", we also included the following medical workers: unknown age, Wuhan Emergency and Emergency Center staff etiology, death time unknown, Wuhan Changjiang Hospital Medical Center, unknown etiology, death time unknown, Wuhan City Zengkou District Po Fung Street Hospital Medical Doctor etiology and death of unknown age,
由解剖获得的新冠肺炎病理，对于探索新冠肺炎患者临床的病理改变，疾病机制等有重大帮助，并能从根本上寻找新冠肺炎的致病性，致死性，给未来临床治疗危重症患者提供依据。
The pathology of new crown pneumonia obtained from anatomy is of great help in exploring the pathologic changes and disease mechanism of patients with new crown pneumonia, and can fundamentally find out the pathogenicity and fatal nature of the new crown pneumonia, and provide evidence for future clinical treatment of critically ill patients.
我们同样向这两位捐献者及家属致敬。
We also pay tribute to the two donors and their families.
*统计按时间顺序排序。
* Statistics are sorted in chronological order.
如有错漏，请不吝指正补充。
If you have any mistakes, please do not hesitate to add.
本文版权归第一财经所有，未经许可不得转载或翻译。
The copyright of this article belongs to First Finance and cannot be reproduced or translated without permission.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
特别记录 | 一份不愿更新的名单。
Special records and # 124; A list that it does not wish to update.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "第一财经YiMagazine";。
var nickname = & quot; First Finance Yi Magazine & quot;;;
var msg_title = "特别记录 | 一份不愿更新的名单";。
var msg _ title = & quot; special record & # 124; a list that & quot; & quot; not wanted to be updated;;
var msg_desc = "在这场疫情中，所有逝者都值得被记住姓名。
var msg _ desc = & quot; In this outbreak, all those who perished deserve to be remembered.
我们在此仅用记录的方式对在这次疫情中逝去的医务工作者和医学领域的学者表达敬意。
We are here only to record our respect for the medical workers and scholars in the field of medicine who perished in the epidemic.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="第一财经YiMagazine";。
var title = & quot; First Finance Yi Magazine & quot;;;
