地球青年丨意大利“封国”前后，4位中国人的防疫实录。
The cordon of 4 Chinese before and after the Earth Youth into Italy.
地球青年丨意大利“封国”前后，4位中国人的防疫实录。
The cordon of 4 Chinese before and after the Earth Youth into Italy.
在人间living                      。
Living on earth.
在人间living。
Living on earth.
用冷静的叙述抵抗冰冷 | 凤凰网在人间工作室出品。
Resist cold & # # 124; & # 45; Order of the Phoenix with a sober narrative.
The following article comes from 地球青年图鉴。
A guide to the youth of the planet.
Author 地青。
Authorization Green.
地球青年图鉴。
Youth of the Earth.
年轻的另一种可能。
Another possibility of being young.
意大利当地时间3月3日早上8点钟，人五拖着两件行李、包里背着网上拼团从匈牙利寄来的20个口罩，离开了两天前刚搬入的位于意大利北部米兰的新家，搭乘出租车赶往米兰马尔彭萨机场。
Italian local time March 3 8: 00 am, five people with two bags, carrying online groups of 20 masks from Hungary, left just two days ago moved into Milan, northern Italy, on a taxi to Milan Malpensa Airport.
想到马上要回家，人五非常兴奋，“从法兰克福转机，再过11个小时直接就到成都，睡一觉就到家了!”自2月21日意大利伦巴第大区首例新型冠状肺炎患者确诊以来，意大利北部的疫情迅速爆发，并逐渐扩散到全国。
"From Frankfurt to Chengdu, just 11 hours from now, I'll be home in a few hours!" The outbreak in northern Italy has spread rapidly since the first new type of coronary pneumonia was diagnosed in Lombardy, Italy, on February 21.
3月11日18时，意大利卫生部公布的最新数据显示，意大利累计确诊感染新冠病毒总人数为12462例，位列全球第二；累计死亡827例，致死率高达6%，成为死亡率最高的主要疫情国家。
At 1800 hours on 11 March, the latest data released by the Italian Ministry of Health showed that Italy had the second highest cumulative total of 12,462 cases of new crown virus infections, with 827 cumulative deaths and a 6 per cent fatality rate, making it the country with the highest mortality rate.
△ 封城前的米兰街头 摄影：Dino然而，官方通报下每天呈指数级增长的确诊数字，起初并没有引起意大利当地人的重视，全国“封城”前，米兰的街道上、超市里戴口罩的人寥寥无几，一直以来，意大利只有生病了才需要戴口罩的认知是根深蒂固的。
2007-08-18 21: 48 Before the death of the city, few people wore masks in the streets and supermarkets. Until the official announcement, however, the number of confirmed cases of daily exponential growth had not caught the attention of the local Italian population.
餐厅正常运营，酒吧里的顾客一如往常地喝酒、庆祝。
The restaurant is functioning normally and the customers in the bar are drinking and celebrating as usual.
一个多月前，当地华人和留学生群体购买了大量物资捐赠回国，药房的口罩、消毒用品早已断货，亚马逊平台的一次性医用外科口罩也已由7欧一盒（50只装）涨价到50至60欧。
More than a month ago, the local Chinese and foreign student community bought a lot of supplies and donated them back home. Pharmacies' masks and disinfectant supplies have long been out of stock. Disposable medical surgical masks on the Amazon platform have risen from a seven-pack (50 pieces) to between 50 and 60 euros.
严峻的形势、回国路上的重重风险，让众多身在意大利的留学、工作的华人陷入了回国或是留守这个进退两难的境地。
The grim situation and the many risks on the way home have left many Chinese studying and working in Italy in the dilemma of returning home or staying behind.
△ 人五在法兰克福机场等待。
People? Five are waiting at Frankfurt airport.
摄影：人五人五来自四川成都，2015年他来到米兰一所美院留学，今年是他在意大利的第5年。
Photo: Five people from Chengdu, Sichuan Province, in 2015 he came to Milan to study in an aesthetic, this year is his fifth year in Italy.
21号，意大利境内确诊了第一例感染新冠肺炎的患者，前一天，人五还外出喝酒了，21号后，他连续三天没出门，直到家里没有食物，才戴上口罩去超市买东西，超市里只有他一个人戴口罩，大众还是如常在生活。
21, Italy confirmed the first case of new crown pneumonia, the previous day, five people out drinking, 21, he did not go out for three days, until no food, until the home, wearing a mask to the supermarket shopping, only he alone wearing a mask, the public still live as usual.
从新冠肺炎在意大利出现，人五的学校就下了停课通知，开学的时间一周一周向后推迟——由2月底到3月6日再无限期延长。
Since the outbreak of pneumonia in Italy, People's Five's schools have suspended classes for a week or so - and extended indefinitely from late February to March 6.
“如何购买消毒液、口罩等物资”、“是否回国”成为人五所在的留学生群里热议的话题。
"How to buy disinfectant, masks and other materials," "whether to return to China" has become a hot topic in the group of five international students.
当地时间2月27日傍晚，意大利确诊新型冠状病毒肺炎病例为650例，在24小时内增加了250例，短时间内的快速增长让人五感到担忧。
Italy confirmed 650 new cases of coronavirus pneumonia on the evening of Feb. 27, an increase of 250 cases in 24 hours, giving cause for concern.
第二天，他与家人沟通之后，决定回国，“在米兰我不能出门也不敢出门，与其这样宅着，我还是选择回国。
The next day, after communicating with his family, he decided to return home. "I can't go out or go out in Milan.
米兰不如国内考虑得周到，国内整个环境都比较稳定，大致上感觉像是比较受控制。
Milan is not as thoughtful as the home, the overall domestic environment is relatively stable, in general feel more controlled.
意大利爆发，怕会发生医疗资源挤兑，就算感染也得不到治疗或是帮助。
Italy erupted, fearing a run on medical resources, leaving infected people untreated or unassisted.
”△ 凌晨一点，空无一人的法兰克福机场。
Frankfurt airport is empty at 1 a. m.
摄影：人五此时，人五身边的同学也有不少人决定回国。
Photography: Five people at this time, people around the students also decided to return to the country.
“我们都是单独分批次走，一个两个，没有成群结队一起走的。
"We're all moving in separate lots, two at a time, not in groups.
”人五的母亲提前帮他买好从米兰到法兰克福再到成都的机票。
Five's mother bought him tickets in advance from Milan to Frankfurt to Chengdu.
3月3日上午，他来到人员密集的马尔彭萨机场，包括安检人员、秩序人员在内，他几乎没有看到有人戴着口罩，按照要求填写了一张关于个人行程的信息和是否接触患者的表格，没有更多的检查，便上了飞机。
On the morning of 3 March, he arrived at the densely populated Malpensa airport, where he saw hardly anyone wearing a mask, including security officers and order officers, filled in the requested information on his personal journey and a form on whether to contact the patient, and boarded the plane without further checks.
11点飞机在米兰机场起飞，原本的归国行程却因为一些意外的发生而变得艰难曲折。
The plane took off at Milan airport at 11: 00, but the original return trip was complicated by some unexpected events.
△法兰克福机场，飞往北京航班的乘客在值机。
Frankfurt airport, passengers on flights to Beijing are on duty.
摄影：人五到达法兰克福，坐上摆渡车，他才想起来护照和机票落在飞机上，为了取回护照，错过了飞往成都的航班。
Photo: Five people arrived in Frankfurt, ride on the ferry, he remembered that his passport and ticket landed on the plane, in order to retrieve the passport, missed the flight to Chengdu.
航班紧缺，他只能重新订了27个小时后由北京中转回成都的机票，出于无奈只好在机场的座椅上过了一夜，“种种变动让我愈发紧张，手不敢碰脸、口罩不敢取下来，喝水的时候也是在机场找一个没人的角落，偷偷喝完后赶紧重新戴上口罩。
A shortage of flights forced him to rebook a flight from Beijing to Chengdu 27 hours later, leaving him stranded overnight in an airport seat. "The changes made me even more nervous, afraid to face my face and mask down, drinking water in an empty corner of the airport, after secretly drinking quickly put on a mask.
”在飞往北京的飞机上，回国的乘客们都戴上了口罩。
Passengers returning home wearing masks were on board the plane bound for Beijing.
3月5日11点45分飞机降落在首都国际机场，经过了异国他乡48小时的颠沛，人五终于回到国内，而这只是途中的又一个起点。
March 5 11: 45 aircraft landing at the Capital International Airport, after 48 hours in a foreign country, five people finally returned to the country, and this is just another starting point on the way.
△ 人五在飞机上填报的健康申明卡。
A health declaration card completed on an aircraft.
摄影：人五人五每到冬天都会咳嗽，今年过年开始也出现咳嗽的症状，在回北京的飞机上，工作人员让每位乘客填报一份“出入境健康申明卡”，人五当即勾上了“咳嗽”的选项，“填这些内容都要凭自觉”。
Every winter five people cough, this year began to cough at the beginning of the plane back to Beijing, staff members asked each passenger to fill in a "Health Declaration Card", people immediately hooked up the "cough" options, "to fill out the content on the self-conscious.
飞机上他始终没有摘下口罩，11个小时没吃没喝，也没上厕所。
He never took off his mask on the plane, did not eat, drink or use the toilet for 11 hours.
△乘客在首都国际机场接受检查。
Passengers are checked at the Capital International Airport.
下飞机后，边检人员全部穿着防护服，他们将人五和其他有症状的人单独领到一个小房间，专门用水银体温计测体温，并详细地问他“什么时候开始咳嗽、怎么咳嗽、有没有痰、有没有接触过病人”等很多问题。
When he got off the plane, the border guards were all wearing protective clothing. They took him and other symptomatic people to a small room where they used a mercury thermometer to take his temperature and asked him in detail "when he started coughing, how he coughed, if he had phlegm or had any contact with the patient."
尽管没有发烧，边检人员还是决定让救护车拉人五到首都医科大学附属北京地坛医院做检查。
Despite not having a fever, border inspectors decided to send an ambulance to Beijing Ditan Hospital, an affiliate of the Capital Medical University, for a check-up.
等待救护车期间，工作人员分给人五两个蛋黄派，没有水，他硬咽下去，“真的太饿了。
Waiting for the ambulance, the staff divided between five and two egg yellow pie, no water, he forced down, "really too hungry.
”△ 人五在北京地坛医院临时住在医生办公室。
"" A "five is temporarily staying in the doctor's office at Beijing Ditan Hospital.
救护车将人五和一行人接到地坛医院，随后挂号、抽血、照CT、做鼻试纸、核酸检验，血样和CT都显示正常，还需要等到核酸检验结果。
The ambulance took the five and the party to the Ditan Hospital, where they were subsequently registered, taken blood, taken CT, taken a nose test paper, tested for nucleic acid, blood samples and CT, and had to wait until the nucleic acid test results were available.
考虑到感染的风险，如果当天不回成都，医生要求他得在医院过夜。
Given the risk of infection, if he did not return to Chengdu that day, the doctor asked him to spend the night in hospital.
但病房已经满人了，跟医生沟通后，当晚，他住在一间消过毒的医生看诊办公室，房间里有一张小床没有被子，可以点餐但是不能与外卖员有接触，由护士转送给他。
But the room was full, and that night, after communicating with the doctor, he stayed in a sterile doctor's office with a small bed without quilts that he could order but could not get in touch with the takeout staff and was referred to him by a nurse.
“有很多病人需要照顾，对我来说待遇已经很好了”。
"There are a lot of patients to take care of, and it's been good for me," he said.
△ 人五的诊断证明书。
Diagnostic certificate for person?? V.
6号下午1点半，核酸结果出来为阴性，人五松了一口气，医生给人五开了一张证明书，他才坐出租车去机场。
At 1: 30 p.m. on the 6th, when the nucleic acid came out negative, the man heaved a sigh of relief. The doctor gave the man a certificate and took a taxi to the airport.
人五特意给司机看了他的检验报告，并且告诉他是从米兰回来的。
The fifth man showed the driver his inspection report and told him that he had come back from Milan.
晚上6点半，人五坐上了这次归途的最后一班飞机，候机时，他发现这班车的乘客有从日本、韩国、伊朗、意大利等地回国的。
At 6: 30 p. m., he was waiting on the last flight home to find passengers returning from Japan, South Korea, Iran and Italy.
抵达成都已是深夜，人五做好了统一去定点地区隔离的准备，在填表、测量体温后，乘客被放行了。
Arrived in Chengdu late at night, five people to unify to the designated area isolation preparations, in filling in the form, temperature measurement, passengers were released.
由于他在成都独居，又做过核酸检测，上报给社区人员后，对方告知人五可以在家隔离14天，隔离期间物管可以帮忙取快递和外卖。
Since he was living alone in Chengdu and had undergone a nucleic acid test, which was reported to community members, he was told that the person could remain in isolation for 14 days, during which time the tube could help pick up the courier and take-out.
3月7日凌晨1点钟，人五打通了给妈妈报平安的电话。
March 7th, 1: 00 a.m., five people called his mother to give her a safe phone call.
在这四天三夜里，他在法兰克福机场睡了一晚，在飞机上睡了一晚，在地坛医院睡了一晚，没有洗头、洗澡、刷牙，也没有换过衣服，“我真的好难受，现在终于回来了，终于可以洗澡、可以躺在一张大床上、可以正常吃东西了。
During those four days and three nights, he slept one night at Frankfurt airport, one night on the plane, one night in the Ditan hospital without washing, bathing, brushing his teeth or changing his clothes. "I really feel bad, and now I am finally back, can finally take a bath, can lie in a big bed and eat normally.
”由于多次换乘，人五的两件行李没有和他一起到成都，他打开了唯一带回来的背包，数了数里面还剩8个口罩。
Due to several transfers, the two pieces of personal luggage did not go with him to Chengdu. He opened the only backpack he had brought home and counted the eight remaining masks.
虽然经历了四天三夜的波折，所幸的是，他赶在米兰封城前平安到家。
Despite four days and three nights of ups and downs, he managed to make it home safely in front of Milan.
当地时间3月8日凌晨，意大利宣布封锁疫情重灾区的北部交通，封城涉及意大利最重要经济中心的伦巴第、威尼托等地区，米兰也位于此列。
In the early morning hours of March 8, Italy announced that it would block traffic to the north of Italy's most affected region, which includes the regions of Lombardy and Veneto, Italy's most important economic center.
△ Dino在米兰街头，为国内媒体进行街头采访的拍摄。
Dino, on the streets of Milan, filmed street interviews for domestic media.
△ 封城前一周，米兰地铁。
A week before the death of the city, Milan Metro.
摄影：DinoDino是米兰大学的大四留学生，因国内疫情更早发生，在家人的劝说下,Dino放弃了回国度春节的打算，“本想待在米兰安全一些，但还是没有逃脱掉”。
Photo: Dino Dino, a senior at Milan University, was persuaded by his family to give up plans to return to Milan for the Spring Festival because of an earlier outbreak of the disease.
Dino身边也有好多朋友选择回国，可是回国还需要中转第三国家，飞机上空间密闭、人员混杂都会增加感染的风险，他选择先留在意大利，不给家人添麻烦。
Dino, who also has friends who have chosen to return home but need to transit to a third country, has chosen to stay in Italy without causing problems for his family because of the risk of infection caused by the cramped conditions and intermingling of people on the plane.
平日里除必要的采购和工作，Dino尽可能减少外出，居家防护。
On weekdays, Dino minimizes travel and home protection, in addition to necessary purchases and work.
从Dino的房间望去，可以看到楼下不远处有一个小型篮球场，很多人聚集在那里打篮球。
From Dino's room, you can see a small basketball court not far below, where a lot of people gather to play basketball.
△ 超市结账柜台处有贴地标，让客人间隔1米站开。
Supermarket checkout counters have stickers to let guests leave every one meter.
拍摄：梦琳在封城令下达之后，情况不同于往常。
Photo: After the decree, the situation was different.
政府法令、街区喇叭都在宣传“待在家里”，米兰的餐饮、酒吧都已经关闭；少量开门的商店也会在外面写明：里面最多容纳五个人，请排队进入，店铺门口会放免洗消毒液，进门的客人自觉消毒手部。
Government decrees and street horns proclaim "stay at home," Milan's restaurants and bars have been closed, and a small number of open-door shops will say: There are a maximum of five people inside. Please line up, disinfectant will be placed at the entrance of the store, and guests will disinfect their hands voluntarily.
政府要求超市要在周一至周五营业，休息日可按情况进行调整，结账时人与人之间的距离需要达到一米。
Supermarkets are required to be open from Monday to Friday and rest days can be adjusted according to the circumstances.
此前对疫情有所“怠慢”的米兰当地人也逐渐重视起这场日益严峻的疫情，“街上的人确实在减少，戴口罩的人明显增多”。
Locals in Milan, who had previously been snubbing the epidemic, are starting to take note of the growing epidemic, saying "the number of people in the streets is indeed decreasing and the number of wearing masks has increased significantly."
随着确诊人数上升，Dino依然在回国与留下之间不断摇摆，封城后，他反而松了一口气，“不用纠结回不回国了”。
With the number of confirmed cases rising, Dino still wobbles between returning home and staying. Instead, he heaved a sigh of relief, "Don't bother returning home."
Dino现在最担忧的是意大利疫情不知道什么时候会结束，“我个人也解决不了，只能看具体情况的发展”。
Dino's biggest worry now is when the Italian epidemic will come to an end: "I can't solve it personally, I can only see how things go."
3月10日起，意大利的封城令扩大到全国范围，所有居民不得随意进出城市（除工作、紧急情况或医疗状况），出入城市必须提供自述声明。
On 10 March, the Italian decree was extended to cover the entire country, and all residents were not allowed to enter or leave the city at will (except for work, emergencies or medical conditions), and had to provide a self-declaration to enter or leave the city.
这次的举国“封城”在意大利国家历史上绝无仅有，在欧洲乃至世界防疫史上也极其罕见。
This "closure" of the nation in the history of Italy is unique, in Europe and even the history of world epidemic prevention is extremely rare.
△ 梦琳上下班需要填报的证明。
A certificate that you need to complete to get to work.
早上9点钟，生活在意大利中部佛罗伦萨的梦琳已准时到达办公室，平日里梦琳都会选择走路10分钟再坐两站轻轨，疫情爆发后她尽量避免与过多人接触，几乎都会选择步行半个小时上班。
At 9 a.m., Marlene, who lives in Florence, central Italy, arrived at her office on time, choosing to walk for 10 minutes before taking two light rail trips. After the outbreak, she avoided meeting too many people and almost always walked half an hour to work.
出来工作需要填好一份类似通行证的自我声明，主要登记自己的身份信息以及出行理由（无论跨城市还是普通的出行，后者会有警察抽查，前者必查），这份文件具有法律效力，所以要如实填写，并且抽查时填好后由执法人员盖章存档，梦琳和她的意大利同事将这张“通行证”复印多份、并随身带着以防不时之需。
To get out to work, you need to fill out a self-statement like a laissez-passer, primarily registering your identity and reasons for travel (the latter will be checked by the police on a random basis). This document has the force of law, so fill it out truthfully and be sealed and filed by law enforcement officials.
△ 2月21日，佛罗伦萨艺术展开展，民众在现场排起长队。
On February 21, the Florence Art Exhibition took place, and people lined up at the scene.
摄影：梦琳△封城后，梦琳在中午12点左右每天上下班经过的火车站，平时都是满的，现在空荡荡。
Photography: After Meng Lin's death, the train station where she commutes to and from work at around 12: 00 noon is usually full and empty.
摄影：梦琳梦琳在佛罗伦萨的一家私立语言机构担任教学秘书。
Photo: Marilyn Monroe works as a teaching secretary at a private language organization in Florence.
全国“封城”后，学校大门关闭了但是办公区域还是一直在运作，梦琳的工作有增无减，她需要协助通知和安排学生转网课、通过微信和学生、家长、老师等交接、应对全球其他对接中介机构的咨询、为老师提供技术支持。
After the national "closure," the school gates were closed but the office space remained operational, and Meng Lin's work continued unabated, requiring assistance in notifying and arranging student-to-network classes, communicating with students, parents, teachers, etc., responding to advice from other docking agencies around the world, and providing technical support to teachers.
尽管工作时间比较弹性，繁杂的事务仍会让她忙上近9个小时。
Despite her flexible working hours, she was kept busy for nearly nine hours by a chore.
“有许多需要临时调整的事务，‘封国令’一下，恐慌情绪更严重了，自然会有更多各种各样的咨询，尤其关于回国可行性以及后续安排的。
"There are a lot of things that need to be adjusted on an ad hoc basis, the panic is getting worse, and there will naturally be more and more consultations of all kinds, particularly on the feasibility of repatriation and successor arrangements.
”平日加班，梦琳和同事会常去麦当劳就餐，3月10号，他们走到麦当劳看到关店的标志，才想起来佛罗伦萨从那天起18点后餐厅一律停止营业，只好绕到这个时间点唯一开门的超市，买了两盒炸鸡块。
On March 10, they went to McDonald's and saw the sign for the store. Then they remembered that Florence had been closed since 18: 00 and had to go around to the only supermarket that opened at that time and buy two fried chicken nuggets.
晚上回家的路上，梦琳观察到，虽然街头边变得比以往更空旷了，但流浪汉、聚众喝酒的人反而多了，她的意大利同事也遇到过这些人，还提醒她回家路上要小心点。
On her way home at night, she observed that although the streets had become more empty than ever, there were more vagrants, crowds of drinkers, and Italian colleagues who had met them and warned her to be careful on her way home.
本职工作外，梦琳还加入了一个“帮帮湖北义务翻译群”志愿小组，小组建于正月初一，其初衷是动员海外华人在全球寻求物资并且快速翻译专业性强的医疗器械资料，群里专事翻译的志愿者就有200多人，梦琳就是其中的欧美语言组组长。
In addition to her professional work, Menglin joined a volunteer group called "Help Hubei Volunteer Translation Group," which was founded on the first day of the first month to mobilize overseas Chinese to seek supplies around the world and quickly translate professional medical equipment materials.
“那段时间除了日常工作和吃饭睡觉都在忙募捐和翻译工作，我觉得自己力量微薄，想着能做一点是一点”。
"In addition to the daily work, food and sleep are busy with the fund-raising and translation work, I feel weak, think can do a little is a bit."
△3月11日晚，梦琳经过的阿尔诺河。
On the night of March 11, Meng Lin passed by the Arno River.
摄影：梦琳从疫情在意大利爆发直至全国“封城”，都没有改变梦琳留在意大利的计划。
Photography: From the outbreak of the disease in Italy to the "closure" of the country, did not change her plans to stay in Italy.
“在这里，有我的工作、同事、好朋友、甚至常去光顾的小店老板，有我生活的一部分；就像在中国，有我的家人朋友和工作一样，这都是我的生活”。
"It's part of my life to have a job, a co-worker, a good friend, even a regular shopkeeper, like in China, to have family and friends and work, it's all my life."
梦琳认为，“类似一个全球公民的概念，就像疫情也好，环境变化也罢，都是全人类要去面对的。
"The notion of a global citizen, like an epidemic or environmental change, is something that all humanity has to face," she said.
无论从如今人口的高频流动和病毒传播的隐蔽性这一现实层面，还是从文化和政治国情等方方面面，都不存在逃去哪里就能把病毒躲过去这一说法。
There is no such thing as where the virus can escape, whether in the form of high-frequency movements of the population and the hidden nature of the virus's transmission, or in terms of cultural and political circumstances.
我人在哪里，病毒来了，就去配合当地的防疫措施、去应对。
Where I am, the virus came, to match the local epidemic prevention measures to deal with.
”与梦琳不同，很多在意大利的个体商铺并不能维持稳定的收入。
In contrast to Maureen, many individual stores in Italy do not maintain a steady income.
在意大利学习、生活了10年之久的宋贺文，毕业后成为一名房地产中介，2013年他在意大利北部都灵开了一家中介店铺。
Seong, who studied and lived in Italy for 10 years, graduated as an estate agent and opened an intermediary in Turin, northern Italy, in 2013.
今年回国和家人度过春节后，二月初宋贺文返回都灵，在都灵开始了14天的隔离生活。
He returned to Turin in early February for 14 days of isolation after returning home to spend the Spring Festival with his family.
14天后，接踵而至的是疫情在意大利北部的扩散。
Fourteen days later, the epidemic spread in northern Italy.
尽管很多当地的店铺都在营业，宋贺文还是决定自发地关闭店面。
Despite the fact that many local shops were open, Mr. Song decided to voluntarily close his shop.
客户流失、店铺关门、房租的损失，宋贺文近一个月的收入近乎为零，他的工作停摆了，何时开业悬而未决。
With customer churn, shops closed and rents lost, Mr. Sung's income was close to zero for nearly a month, and his job was at a standstill, pending the start of business.
让宋贺文感动的是，一些不是很熟的意大利人会发短信、打电话安慰他；在家隔离时很多朋友也要给他送物资；个别歧视华人的新闻也会引起当地人的气愤……“歧视还是少数，意大利好人很多”。
To his surprise, some Italians, who were not familiar with him, sent text messages and telephoned him to comfort him; many friends sent him supplies when he was isolated at home; and individual stories of discrimination against Chinese aroused local resentment... "discrimination is still a minority, Italy has many good people."
△ 图为3月3日，米兰街头。
Image: On March 3, the streets of Milan.
摄影：Dino疫情发生以来，Dino未遇到过网上传播的辱骂、霸凌等行为。
Photography: Dino has not experienced online abuse or bullying since the outbreak of Dino.
坐地铁时还是会有人坐在他的旁边，偶尔有人会因为Dino戴着口罩盯着他看几眼、稍微站远一点，“这些行为我都是可以理解的。
There were people sitting next to him on the subway, and occasionally someone would stare at him and stand a little further because Dino was wearing a mask.
”一条两三年前华人商店生意纠纷的视频被渲染成意大利打砸抢商铺、羞辱华人，并流传出来。
A video of a business dispute in a Chinese store two or three years ago has been leaked as a smash-and-grab shop in Italy, humiliating the Chinese.
意大利疫情爆发20天来，误解、惶恐、焦虑随着确诊数字的大幅上升而不断发酵，梦琳认为网络上传播的类似许多消息都有被夸张的成分，无论是国内还是国外，歧视是实实在在存在的，但只存在于部分人身上，大多数开明的人都很友好。
In the 20 days since the outbreak of the epidemic in Italy, misunderstanding, trepidation, and anxiety have grown as the number of confirmed cases has skyrocketed, and she believes that much of what has spread on the Internet has been exaggerated.
“此时此刻，是当下，也将成为历史。
"The moment, the present, will be history.
一定要看清楚，一定要记住。
Be sure to see clearly and remember.
”2月7日，梦琳曾在朋友圈写下这段文字。
"On February 7, she wrote the phrase in a circle of friends.
文中人五、Dino为化名.本篇为地球青年图鉴“身在疫国人”第2期意大利篇，后续将带来更多海外疫国的报道，请持续关注。
In this article, Dino is a pseudonym. This is the second Italian edition of Epidemics, which will bring more reports from overseas countries. Keep your eye on it.
图片均由受访者提供作者 | 周宁编辑| 图拉实习生 | 匡若彤 易琬玉凤凰新闻客户端 凤凰网在人间工作室出品新型肺炎疫情牵动人心，《在人间》现面向全国网友征稿：（一）疫区影像日记如果你身处疫区请你用照片（视频）和文字记录你所听闻和见到的一切照片不少于3张文字不少于300字投稿方式：微信联系人间君（zairenjianliving）（二）抗击疫情真实故事无论你是一线医护人员、志愿者、确诊或疑似患者及家属、已治愈出院人士等等，如果希望讲述疫情相关经历，请微信联系人间君（zairenjianliving）。
Photo taken by interviewees with AT & # 45; T & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
地球青年丨意大利“封国”前后，4位中国人的防疫实录。
The cordon of 4 Chinese before and after the Earth Youth into Italy.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "在人间living";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; at & quot; among men.
var msg_title = "地球青年丨意大利“封国”前后，4位中国人的防疫实录";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by four Chinese around the time of its "takeover."
var msg_desc = "此时此刻，是当下，也将成为历史。
var msg _ desc = & quot; at this moment, the present and the past.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '地球青年丨韩国大邱疫区的中国人实况：有人留下，有人逃离',。
What happened to Chinese at Taegu: Someone left and someone ran away from & quot; & apos; at & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '地球青年丨戒毒后他闯荡非洲成酋长，这次向戒毒所捐万只口罩',。
He barged into Africa to become a sheikh after the young people of the planet, this time donated 10 million face masks to rehabilitation center.
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '地球青年丨没学上的中国留学生：被迫休学、中转第三国隔离入境',。
Chinese students: Forcible suspension from school, transit to a third country, and & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="在人间living";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; at human & quot;
