防疫升级后的武汉。
Upgraded immunization in Wuhan.
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
1月23日上午10时20分，湖北武汉汉口火车站进站口，工作人员向旅客解释离汉通道暂时关闭的情况。
January 23, 10: 20 a.m., Hubei Wuhan Hankou Railway Station entrance, staff to explain the temporary closure of Han corridor.
中青报·中青网记者 王嘉兴/摄中青报·中青网记者 王嘉兴1月23日凌晨2时，武汉市疫情防控指挥部发布通告，自2020年1月23日10时起，武汉全市城市公交、地铁、轮渡、长途客运暂停运营；无特殊原因，市民不要离开武汉；机场、火车站离汉通道暂时关闭。
Zhongqing News / Zhongqing News Correspondent Wang Jiaxing / Zhongqing News Network Wang Jiaxing issued a notice on January 23, 2020 at 10: 00 a.m. Wuhan city public transport, subway, ferry, long-distance passenger transport operations, no special reasons, citizens do not leave Wuhan; airports, railway stations from Han corridor temporarily closed.
今日上午，中青报·中青网记者探访了汉口火车站及部分超市、菜市场。
This morning, Zhongqing Daily visited Hankou Railway Station and some supermarkets and Halles markets.
汉口火车站是武汉客流量最大的火车站，2019年春运期间，共发送旅客550万人次。
Hankou Railway Station is Wuhan's largest passenger flow railway station, 2019 during the Spring Games, a total of 5.5 million passengers.
自1898年建站以来，这是首次封站。
It was the first stop since its establishment in 1898.
上午10时，记者在汉口火车站发现，各进站口均有车站工作人员站岗，向前往车站的旅客解释情况，只有负责清洁的工作人员和列车司机、乘务员可以出入。
At 10 a.m., the reporter found in Hankou railway station, each station entrance to the station staff stood guard to explain the situation to the station, only the staff responsible for cleaning and train drivers, crew members can access.
一名滞留的乘客向记者展示一段上午9时30分拍摄的视频，称那时有武警和保安在现场拉起人墙。
A stranded passenger showed reporters a video taken at 9.30 a.m., saying that armed police and security guards had pulled up the wall at the scene.
一名工作人员向记者表示，只有持上午10点前从汉口火车站出发的列车车票的旅客才能进站。
A staff member told reporters that only passengers with train tickets from Hankou Railway Station before 10 a.m. would be allowed in.
政府会协助未能进站的旅客联系原居住地街道居委会，协调滞留武汉期间的食宿问题。
The Government will assist passengers who are unable to enter the station to contact the neighbourhood committees in their original places of residence to coordinate accommodation during their stay in Wuhan.
记者在售票厅发现，仍有部分旅客在排队退票。
Some passengers were still queuing up to return tickets, the reporter found at the ticket office.
汉口火车站售票处值班主任告诉记者，未取票的乘客可以在线上免费退票，但已经取票的乘客，只能在人工窗口退票。
Hankou Railway Station Ticket Office duty director told reporters that passengers who did not get tickets can return tickets online free of charge, but those who have already taken tickets can only be returned at the artificial window.
1月23日上午，湖北武汉汉口火车站进站口，部分滞留旅客仍在观望。
January 23 morning, Hubei Wuhan Hankou railway station entrance, some stranded passengers are still watching.
中青报·中青网记者 王嘉兴/摄在汉口火车站的出租车等候处，约有50人排队等候，但鲜有出租车进入该区域。
About 50 people lined up at the waiting taxi stand at Hankou Railway Station, but few taxis entered the area.
火车站出站口附近有部分黑车司机招揽乘客。
Some black-car drivers near the railway station exit are attracting passengers.
记者佯装要去湖北省孝感市（距武汉80公里，驾车约90分钟，高铁30分钟，二等座价格57.5元），黑车司机告诉记者，一人的价格是500元，满4人即走。
The reporter pretended to go to Xiaogan City in Hubei Province (80 kilometers from Wuhan, about 90 minutes by car, 30 minutes by high-speed rail and 57.5 yuan for a second-class seat).
但在往年过年，一人的价格是100-200元。
But in previous New Year's Eve, the price of a person is 100-200 yuan.
据《财新》报道，汉口火车站一名管理人员表示，今日汉口火车站估计有8万客流量，约有4万人赶在封站前离开。
According to Caixin, an official at Hankou railway station said there were an estimated 80,000 passengers at Hankou railway station today, with about 40,000 people leaving before the train was closed.
1月23日10时40分，湖北武汉汉口火车站进站口，车站工作人员向旅客解释情况。
January 23, 10: 40, Hubei Wuhan Hankou Railway Station entrance, station staff to explain the situation to passengers.
中青报·中青网记者 王嘉兴/摄记者又探访了本地一家沃尔玛超市。
The reporter Wang Jiaxing / Photographer visited a local Wal-Mart.
超市入口处，有工作人员持温度测量仪测量每名顾客的体温，并要求，必须佩戴口罩才可入场。
At the entrance to the supermarket, a temperature meter is used to measure the temperature of each customer and a mask is required to enter.
工作人员告诉记者，超市7:30开门后，即迎来大量顾客。
Staff told reporters that the supermarket opened at 7: 30, usher in a large number of customers.
1月23日11时30分，湖北武汉的一家超市中，工作人员在入口处检查顾客体温，要求顾客必须佩戴口罩。
At 11: 30 a.m. on January 23, staff members at a supermarket in Wuhan, Hubei Province, checked the temperature of customers at the entrance and required them to wear masks.
中青报·中青网记者 王嘉兴/摄一名负责日化用品的超市导购告诉记者，顾客成箱地购买84消毒水，今日新补充的货早上8点就被抢购一空。
Zhongqing Newspaper Zhongqing News, a reporter Wang Jiaxing / Photographer of a supermarket in charge of daily necessities, told reporters that customers bought boxes of 84 disinfectant water, the newly replenished goods today were sold out at 8 am.
前几日，每日补充的消毒水可以卖到下午三四点。
A few days ago, the daily supplement of disinfectant can be sold until 3 or 4 pm.
而大概3天前，超市的酒精消毒液就已经售罄。
About three days ago, the alcohol disinfectant in the supermarket was sold out.
她称，因物流原因，公司年前已经不再安排补货。
She said the company had stopped arranging replenishment years ago for logistical reasons.
2020年1月23日11时40分，菱角湖万达沃尔玛超市，一名顾客在选购乳制品，购物车中还有一些速冻食品。
At 11.40 a.m. on January 23, 2020, a customer at Wal-Mart in Wanda, Lingjiao Lake, buys dairy products and some frozen food in his cart.
中青报·中青网记者 王嘉兴/摄负责蔬果称重的工作人员告诉记者，上午约10时许，超市的新鲜蔬菜就已经抢购一空。
About 10 a. m., the fresh vegetables in the supermarket had already been sold out, said Wang Jiaxing, a reporter for Zhongqing Ying. com / Photo staff in charge of weighing fruits and vegetables.
记者询问多名顾客，顾客表示价格比平常要高一些，但“是过年正常的涨价”，并未出现大幅上涨。
Reporters asked a number of customers, customers said the price is higher than usual, but "is a normal increase in the New Year," did not appear a sharp increase.
超市多名工作人员均表示，过年期间照常营业，没有接到放假通知。
Supermarket staff said that the New Year as usual, did not receive a holiday notice.
记者还探访了汉口火车站附近的一家菜市场。
The reporter also visited a vegetable market near Hankou railway station.
周边商户告诉记者，菜市场于1月21日接到通知，从今日起关门休市。
Peripheral merchants told reporters that the Halles market was notified on January 21 and closed from today.
按往年情况，菜市场开放到大年三十上午。
As usual, the Halluca market is open until around New Year's Eve.
在菜市场外，有商户用金杯车运载生鲜蔬菜进行售卖。
Outside the Halles market, merchants carry fresh vegetables in gold cups for sale.
该商户称，接到菜市场通知后，多数同行就不再进货了，他的这些蔬菜本计划卖给城内餐馆，但绝大多数餐馆今天突然不营业了。
The merchant said most of his colleagues stopped buying vegetables after being notified of the market and that most of his vegetables were to be sold to restaurants in the city, but most of them suddenly closed today.
1月23日12时，湖北武汉汉口火车站附近一菜市场门口，一商户在售卖生鲜蔬菜。
January 23 12: 00, Hubei Wuhan Hankou railway station near a vegetable market door, a merchant is selling fresh vegetables.
中青报·中青网记者 王嘉兴/摄多名购买了该商户蔬菜的居民告诉记者，本打算今日到菜市场购置过年所需蔬菜，无奈扑空，只能在该商户处购买。
Zhongqing Newspaper, Zhongqing Yue News, reporter Wang Jiaxing / Photographer, told reporters that they had planned to go to the Halles market today to buy vegetables for the New Year.
他们称，该商户的菜价“有点高”，一周前价格15元一斤的本地蔬菜泥蒿，该商户卖30元一斤；平日2.5元一斤的红菜苔，此处卖10元一斤“一捆”。
They said the merchant's prices were "a little high". A week ago, the local vegetable artesunate, which cost 15 yuan a catty, was selling 30 yuan a catty.
针对当前市场情况，武汉新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎防控指挥部发布第2号通告说，目前武汉市大宗商品、食品、医疗防护用品等储备充分、供应顺畅，请广大市民不用恐慌，不必囤积，以免造成不必要的浪费。
In the light of current market conditions, the Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command for the new-style coronavirus infection in Wuhan has issued Notice No. 2, which said that at present the stock of commodities, food and medical protection articles in Wuhan is sufficient and smoothly supplied.
紧接着发布的第3号通告称，为做好社会各界捐赠武汉市抗击疫情的医用耗材、防护用品等物资接收调配工作，现开通24小时电话接收社会各界爱心捐赠。
Immediately after the release of Circular No. 3, in order to do a good job in the community donated Wuhan city to fight the epidemic medical supplies, protective supplies and other materials, the opening of a 24-hour telephone to receive charitable donations from the community.
中国青年报客户端武汉1月23日电中国青年报·中青在线出品微信编辑 | 陈卓觉得好看请点这里。
China Youth Daily Client Wuhan January 23 China Youth Daily Online Micromail Editor & # 45; Chen Zhuo. Please click here.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
防疫升级后的武汉。
Upgraded immunization in Wuhan.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "防疫升级后的武汉";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; with upgraded immunization.
var msg_desc = "不用恐慌，不必囤积";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; not to panic, or to have at least & quot; & quot;;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
