“报复性消费？我更想报复性赚钱！”。
"Retaliatory consumption? I want revenge sex to make money more!"
王凤姣 黄玉璐。
Wang Feng Jiao Huang Yu Lu.
中国经营报                      。
China Business News.
中国经营报。
China Business News.
与中国企业同步成长，对话商业领袖，传播商业理想，服务商业人群，《中国经营报》掌控中国商界绝对话语权。
Growing in step with Chinese companies, dialogue with business leaders, spreading business ideals, serving the business community, The China Business Administration controls the absolute voice of the Chinese business community.
。
.
文/王凤姣 黄玉璐全民“战疫”已有三个月，全民“家里蹲”也已数月，疫情几乎让所有娱乐活动停止，却没有叫停想“浪”的心。
Wen / Wang Feng Jiao Huang Yu Lu has been "epidemic" for three months, the entire "squat" has also been a few months, the epidemic almost all recreational activities have stopped, but did not stop thinking "waves."
随着疫情逐渐平稳，全国大面积复产复工，关于“报复性消费”的讨论与呼声越来越高。
With the gradual stabilization of the epidemic and the resumption of large-scale production across the country, the "retaliatory consumption" discussion and calls for more and more.
360趋势显示，进入2月后，“报复性消费”一词的关注度有明显的波动上升，甚至在3月5日呈现最高峰。
The trend suggests that the focus on the term "vindictive consumption" increased markedly after February, even peaking on March 5.
与此同时，消费者的购物、出行欲望渐显。
At the same time, the consumer's desire to go shopping, travel gradually.
近期，笔者在北京昌平一家西北菜餐厅门口看到，虽然进店消毒、分开就座的要求严格，但不妨碍七八个人在春寒犹存的北京室外排队等待进餐。
Recently, I saw in front of a northwest restaurant in Changping, Beijing, although the requirements for disinfection, separate seats strict, but did not prevent seven or eight people in the cold in Beijing outside waiting for dinner.
有媒体报道，杭州大厦购物城恢复营业，5小时销售额突破1100万元，北京香山景区堵车登上热搜，洛阳隋唐城遗址植物园3月8日一天超5万人次游客赏花……如此看来，疫情过后真将迎来“报复性消费”的浪潮？疫情又将改变哪些消费习惯？线上购物会继续加大力度冲击线下渠道吗？世界这么大，国人又想去哪儿“浪”？近期，在中经未来组织的“疫情后消费意愿”调查中，近千人给出答案——线上购物很方便，但多数受访者依然怀念 “菜场烟火”与“商场繁华”；比起吃喝长胖，更多人想在疫情后强身健体，抗击病毒；相较“报复性消费”和“全世界走遍”，努力挣钱存钱才是“王道”。
According to media reports, Hangzhou Tower Shopping Mall has resumed business, with sales exceeding 11 million yuan in 5 hours. Beijing Xiangshan Scenic Area is packed with hot search.
生鲜电商的火爆 或许只是烟花一绚有目共睹，疫情的暴发，触发了很多全新的消费习惯，比如，长辈们开始学会在线采购食材，享受着互联网为生活带来的便利。
The explosion of live electricity may be just as visible as fireworks, triggering new consumption habits such as online shopping and enjoying the convenience of the Internet.
家在北京、48岁的李华过去是超市、菜场的熟客，但疫情当前，对智能手机的使用本不精通的她，学会了线上选购蔬菜，“手指稍稍一点，就能安全准时地送到家，真方便啊！”受益者不只李大姐，春节期间，每日优鲜除夕至初四期间实收交易额较去年同期增长321%，叮咚买菜大年三十订单量同比前月增长超300%，美团买菜北京地区日均订单量是节前的2～3倍，盒马生鲜在广州、深圳、成都等地的线上订单量达到平时的5～10倍。
Li Hua, 48, who lives in Beijing and used to be a regular customer in supermarkets and food markets, has learned to shop online for vegetables. "It's convenient for her to buy vegetables online.
似乎，生鲜即送等电商平台成为“疫情赢家”，但调查结果显示，仅31%的受访者表示会在疫情结束后继续线上购买，69%的受访者表示更愿意外出购买食材和生活用品。
Electric platforms such as Fresh & amp; Sending seemed to be the "winners," but only 31 percent of respondents said they would continue to buy online after the epidemic ended, and 69 percent said they would prefer to go out and buy food and household goods.
“一边能够挑选自己心仪的蔬菜，一边出去走走锻炼身体，何乐而不为呢？”与李华年纪相仿的陈芳向笔者表示。
"Why not go for a walk while picking out your favorite vegetables?" Chen Fang, who is about Li Hua's age, told me.
如此看来，倘若疫情结束，生鲜电商的“群众基础”很可能就此动摇？“这次疫情只是给生鲜电商市场留了一个窗口期。
So, if the epidemic ends, the "mass base" of live telecoms companies is likely to be shaken? "This outbreak has only left a window on the market for live electricity producers."
”易观分析群组副总经理、高级分析师孙梦子认为，疫情期间，是生鲜电商“低成本获客以及把流失的老用户拉回来的窗口期”，但想一直热闹下去，依旧需要“考验企业内功”，同时，生鲜电商的需求也应“因地而议”。
Sun Mengzi, a senior analyst and vice president of the Easy Analysis Group, said the outbreak was a "window for low-cost customers and the return of old lost users," but wanted to stay alive and still need to "test the work inside the company" and demand for fresh electricity producers should be "driven by local concerns."
孙梦子分析道，一二线城市生活节奏相对较快，食材配送或者是高端配送的需求很可能在疫情结束后延续，甚至给部分一线城市的老人提供了线上购买的习惯和较为明确的指向性，“人总有腿脚不舒服的时候，线上是给了他们一个新选择” 。
The demand for raw materials distribution or high-end distribution is likely to continue after the epidemic, and even provide some first-tier urban seniors with the habit of buying online and a clearer sense of direction.
但三线以下城市本就不是生鲜电商主要覆盖的市场，疫情期间，生鲜配送只是对居民的短期缓解，长期来看需求会有所下降。
However, three-line cities are not the main coverage of the market live electricity business, during the epidemic, fresh distribution is only a short-term relief for residents, the long-term demand will decline.
而未来，在孙梦子看来，生鲜电商“提供的内容类型或者是服务类型都会变化”，如果想要留住用户，产品标准化、品类多样化、控制供应链、清晰用户画像等等方面，“都是在考验商家内功的过程。
In the future, Sun says, the types of content or services that are offered by live telecoms companies will change. If you want to retain users, product standardization, product diversification, supply chain control, user profiling, and so on, are "testing the business process."
”英敏特零售研究分析师施洋则表示，“疫情在很大程度上其实加速了线上与线下的相互融合”，也加速生鲜零售多渠道态样的发展，长期来看生鲜零售会继续发展。
Shi Yang, an analyst at Insight Retail Research, said: "The outbreak has in large part accelerated the convergence between online and offline" and the development of fresh retail channels, which will continue to grow in the long run.
而从更广泛的消费场景和品类来看，英敏特奢侈品与时尚零售研究分析师夏月认为，娱乐型消费和更完整的消费体验最终将成为线下渠道的生存之道，对部分品类，如高端产品、奢侈品来说，线下渠道更是不可缺少的一部分，因为线上渠道更多承载传播品牌信息的任务，高单价的消费者依旧倾向在线下完成，“待疫情稳定之后，线下的体验消费和娱乐餐饮将会逐步回暖，并不会因为疫情而改变”。
Summer Yue, an analyst with Insight Luxury and Fashion Retail Research, argues that recreational consumption and a more complete consumer experience will ultimately be an essential part of off-line survival, as online channels carry more branding information, and consumers with higher unit prices still prefer to offline, "after the epidemic stabilizes, the offline consumer and recreational food will gradually warm up and will not change with the epidemic."
看来，无论是生鲜还是其他品类，线上买买买的确是大势所趋，但线下“血拼”的快感，依然无法被轻易替代。
It seems that whether fresh or other categories, online buying and selling is indeed the trend, but the online "blood spellings" of the pleasure, can not be easily replaced.
“比起逛吃，我更想惜命”疫情过后，如果线下体验和娱乐性消费将回暖，消费者又将选择哪些项目呢？在“疫情过后最想做的一件事”投票中，我们发现，选择健身的受访者占比达15%，排在第二位，超过了逛街、旅行、看电影、吃美食、唱KTV等娱乐休闲项目。
If offline experiences and recreational consumption were to recover, what items would consumers choose after the epidemic We found that 15 percent of respondents chose fitness over other recreational activities such as shopping, traveling, going to the movies, eating delicious food, singing KTV, and so on, if offline experiences and recreational consumption were to warm up.
90后的秦东曾经是一个地地道道的宅男，“下班回到家就吃外卖、玩游戏，熬夜到凌晨”。
Qin Dong after 90 was a real mansion male, "come home from work to eat take-out, play games, stay up until dawn."
不过，这次疫情让他的想法有了很大的转变，“疫情逼我学会了做饭，也让我惊讶到自己做饭竟然这么省钱，还有就是，这次疫情中，免疫力低下的感染者症状会严重，所以以后我也会更加注重健身，合理饮食，健康生活”。
However, the outbreak changed his mind considerably, "the epidemic forced me to learn to cook, and surprised me how much money I had to save on cooking, and that I will pay more attention to fitness, proper diet and healthy living in the future," he said.
调查数据与秦东的转变，多少反映了疫情对国人健康观念的影响，英敏特大健康品类研究分析师刘文诗认为，疫情催生出人们通过多维度提升“整体健康”的消费观念。
The survey data and the transformation of Qindong more or less reflect the impact of the epidemic on the health of the Chinese people, said Liu Wenshi, analyst of the Yingmin super-health category.
“由于现在没有特别明确的药物能够真正使免疫力上调，因此人们会通过多种方式，如均衡饮食、多运动、补充保健品、健康咨询以及调节情绪来保持良好的免疫状态。
"Since there is no specific drug that really boosts immunity, people can maintain good immunity through a variety of methods, such as balanced diet, exercise, complementary health care, health counselling and mood management.
”刘文诗解释道，与此同时，根据英敏特2019年全球35个市场的消费者研究，90%的中国消费者认为情绪健康管理对于他们来说是重要的，这次疫情也使许多消费者认识到身心健康同等重要。
At the same time, 90 per cent of Chinese consumers think emotional health management is important to them, according to a consumer study in 35 markets around the world in 2019, and the epidemic has made many consumers realize that physical and mental health are equally important.
疫情所引发的健康理念改变，或许也将带来全新的健康产品、消费体验甚至商业机会。
The changes in health attitudes triggered by the epidemic may also lead to new health products, consumer experiences and even business opportunities.
刘文诗介绍道，一些保健品品牌正通过将自己的产品搭配在线运动教程和营养咨询来吸引消费者购买，疫情期间，远程心理咨询服务的高频出现，也为医疗保健产业如何更积极帮助消费者提升情绪健康提供一个潜在方向。
While some health-care brands are attracting consumers to buy their products through online sports tutorials and nutritional advice, the high frequency of telemedicine applications during the epidemic also offers a potential direction for the healthcare industry to be more active in helping consumers improve their emotional well-being, Liu said.
此外，在刘文诗看来，这次疫情让公众意识到动物在病毒传播中存在的潜在威胁，除了采取更多的卫生防疫措施和制定更严格的贸易规章制度外，还会促使人们重新看待原有的饮食习惯，“比如，是否应该寻求更安全和可持续的蛋白质来源。
Moreover, in Liu's view, the outbreak has made the public aware of the potential threat posed by the spread of the virus, and, in addition to more anti-epidemic measures and stricter trade regulations, it has also prompted a fresh look at old eating habits, "such as whether safer and sustainable sources of protein should be sought."
这有可能推动以植物为基础原料的肉制品或人造肉在中国的市场前景”。
This is likely to promote plant-based meat products or artificial meat in China's market prospects. "
或许我们可以幻想这样一个场景：疫情结束后的未来一天，你正在健身房里挥汗如雨，身体的各项体征将被同步更新到健康产品企业的数据后台，会有专门的健康分析师为你搭配膳食与营养品，心理咨询师也同步远程倾听你的烦恼、安慰你的思绪，用餐时分，你口中嚼得不再是五花肉、腱子肉，而是植物萃取或细胞提炼的人造肉。
Maybe we can imagine a scene where one day after the epidemic is over, you are sweating at the gym, your body signs will be updated synchronously to the health products company's data back, special health analysts will accompany you with food and nutrition products, counselors will listen to your troubles and comfort your thoughts remotely, and you will be chewing away at meal time instead of flesh and tendon meat, plant extraction or cell-refined artificial meat.
不想“报复性消费” 只想“报复性赚钱”疫情刺激消费观念的转变，也可能催生全新的消费场景，不过，疫情耽误了这么久的工作，拿什么玩、拿什么消费也成了很多人心中的困惑。
The desire not to "retaliate" only to "get revenge" has spurred a shift in consumer attitudes, and may lead to a whole new consumption scenario, but the epidemic has delayed so much work, leaving many confused about what to play with and what to consume.
此次投票“疫情后消费观念”一项结果显示，有51%的受访网友在疫情后的消费观念是更努力工作，努力赚钱，41%的受访者甚至表示，将会节省开支，攒钱以应对未知的风险，只有8% 的受访者选择了及时行乐，疯狂消费。
Fifty-one percent of online consumers said they thought they would work harder and earn more money after the epidemic, 41 percent said they would save money to cope with unknown risks, with only 8 percent choosing to enjoy themselves in time and consume more.
在上述提到的“疫情过后最想做的一件事”投票中，我们也可以看到，排在首位的选择是“努力赚钱”。
In the above-mentioned "one thing to do after the epidemic" vote, we can also see that the top choice is "to make money."
在微博“疫情结束后最想去哪旅行”的投票上，参与其中的5564人里，有2607人选择“宅习惯了，只想工作”，选择人数位列第一，甚至超过了“看看祖国大好河山”。
Of the 5,564 people who participated in the Weibo poll, "Where do you want to travel after the epidemic?," 2,607 chose "house habits, only jobs," ranked first, and even more than "great motherland."
即使打算在疫情后出门旅游，投票结果显示，受访者中，旅行预算在5000元以内的占52%，5000元～10000元的占27%。
Even when planning a trip after the outbreak, the poll showed that 52 percent of respondents had a travel budget of less than 5000 yuan, and 27 percent had a travel budget of 5,000 yuan to 10,000 yuan.
量力而行似乎是大部分消费者在疫情结束后的选择。
Doing what you can seems to be the choice for most consumers once the epidemic is over.
穷，则几乎成为疫情期间众多宅家人士的普遍心声：“收入都砍了一半，不吃土就算不错了，出去玩只能喝西北风。
Poor, almost became the widespread voice of many homeowners during the epidemic: "Half of the income cut, not eating soil even if not bad, out to play can only drink northwest.
”“做生意的半死不活，上班的发不出工资，这段时间吃了不少老本，还拿什么疯狂，活下来就行了。
"" You can't go to work half-dead, you can't get paid, you eat a lot of old books during that time, you just have to live on what crazy you are.
”一名至今未开工的网友向笔者说道：“原来觉得月光没什么，现在疫情期间绩效不发了，收入没有了保障，交房租的日子却依旧按时到来，拿什么消费？还是努力工作吧。
A netizen who has not yet started work told the author: "It turns out that the moonlight is not so bad. Now that the epidemic is over and income is not guaranteed, rent-paying days are still coming on time.
”这么说来，热议的“报复性消费”真的会大范围出现吗？在讨论是否会出现”报复性消费“之前，孙梦子认为，首先要界定究竟什么是“报复性消费”。
So will the much-debated "vindictive consumption" really be widespread? Before discussing whether there will be "retaliatory consumption," Mr Sun argues that the first thing to define is "vindictive consumption."
在她看来，所谓的“报复性消费”，是指疫情过后消费者原本就存在的消费需求频次更为密集，同时人们可能会“纯买而买、纯花而花”，即消费者会去购买原本需求不大、对实际生活无法产生关键影响的产品，不仅局限于高端奢侈品，也可能是“小额、密集频次”的产品与体验。
In her view, so-called "retaliatory consumption" refers to the post-epidemic consumer demand that is already more intense, and people may "buy for nothing and spend on pure flowers," meaning that consumers will buy products that have little or no real-life impact, not just high-end luxury goods, but also "small, frequent" products and experiences.
从这一定义和前期调研来看，孙梦子预测，疫情结束后可能会有类似的“报复性消费”。
From this definition and early research, Sun Mengzi predicted that the end of the epidemic may have a similar "revenge consumption."
但从消费心理层面分析，孙梦子表示，疫情发生前许多人无法感知到特别重大社会事件对每一个人的影响，甚至到生活、生存层面，而疫情实际上提了个醒，“这一次是实实在在地影响了各位的钱袋子”。
But from the perspective of consumer psychology, Sun said that before the outbreak, many people can not perceive the impact of particularly important social events on everyone, even to the level of life, survival, and the epidemic in fact raised a wake-up call, "this time really affected your money bags.
事实上，从2019年开始，由于经济下行压力较大，“一些民众的手已经开始向紧里面收了”。
Indeed, starting in 2019, "some people's hands are already closing in" because of the downward pressure on the economy.
因此，从投票结果来看，未来，更多民众可能会在投资层面给自己增加各种各样的资金保障，长期而言，消费观念还是以收紧为主，消费者会更“理智、理性一点”，倾向于“保守型消费”，但这不意味着会出现“消费降级”。
So, judging by the results, more people are likely to add a variety of financial guarantees to themselves at the investment level in the future. In the long run, consumer spending will be more "rational and rational," favouring "conservative consumption," but that does not mean a "consumption downgrade."
用孙梦子的话来说就是，疫情结束后，“理智性消费会放到第1位”，而“赚钱是永恒的”。
In Sun's words, after the epidemic is over, "rational consumption will be put in first place" and "making money is eternal."
那么问题来啦：“报复性消费”与“报复性存钱”两者间，你又会怎么选呢？（编辑：黄玉璐 校对：彭玉凤）推荐阅读点击大图|病毒退去后，疾控体系该如何补漏？点击大图|确诊破10000例！死亡631例...意大利为何死亡率这么高？。
So the question arises: How do you choose between "vindictive consumption" and "retaliatory saving"? How should the disease control system repair when the virus retires? Click Great Figure # 124; Identify 10,000 cases! 631... Why is the death rate so high in Italy?
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“报复性消费？我更想报复性赚钱！”。
"Retaliatory consumption? I want revenge sex to make money more!"
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "中国经营报";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "“报复性消费？我更想报复性赚钱！”";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "中国经营报 chinabusinessjournal";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Chinabusinessjournal & quot;;; China Business Newspaper.
title: '病毒退去后，疾控体系该如何补漏？',。
How did the disease control system cover up when the virus retired?
subject_name: '中国经营报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '确诊破10000例！死亡631例...意大利为何死亡率这么高？',。
A: At least 10,000 deaths! 631... Why did Italy have such a high mortality rate?
subject_name: '中国经营报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="中国经营报";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
