返京焦虑期，他尝试在出租屋里做直播。
During the Anxiety Period in Beijing, he tried to live it live in a rental house.
林鹿。
Lynn deer.
我们是有故事的人                      。
We are people with stories.
我们是有故事的人。
We are people with stories.
每一行都有认真的人，再平凡的人也有不平凡的故事。
There are serious people in every line, and even ordinary people have extraordinary stories.
华中科技大学出版社官方非虚构故事平台，有故事的人终将在这里相遇。
Huazhong University of Science and Technology Press official non-fiction platform, the story will eventually meet here.
。
.
“- 世相 故 事 -“我不是想通过比惨来获得什么安慰，但是我确实比不上他们，至少我愁的是生活，而他们愁的是生存。
I don't mean to be comforted by anything less than a tragedy, but I'm not nearly as bad as they are. At least I'm worried about life and they're worried about survival.
”张先随后说道，似乎有点释然。
"Zhang Xian said later, looking a little relieved.
” 故 事 练 习 生 习 作  第  62  篇 1狭小的出租屋里，张先无力地躺在床上。
Lesson1 A cramped room for rent, Zhang lay feebly in bed.
一个月未打扫的空气里似乎弥漫着淡淡的霉味。
There seemed to be a faint mildew in the unswept air for a month.
突然，他感觉眼里进了灰，边揉着眼角边下意识地耸动鼻子嗅了嗅，这才发现自己的脸上还蒙着一层薄薄的口罩。
Suddenly, he felt gray in his eyes and sniffed at the corners of his eyes until he saw that his face was covered with a thin mask.
这是张先返京复工隔离期间最常见的状态。
This is the most common condition during Zhang Xiang's return to work isolation.
在此之前，他一直以为自己是个坐不住的人，而如今似乎只有屏幕上来回划动的食指还在彰显着内心的波澜。
Until then, he thought he was a restless man, and now only his forefinger, flickering back and forth across the screen, seemed to be making waves.
身为“老北漂”，张先在北京沉沉浮浮了多年，浮倒是没浮多高，沉倒是沉到过水底。
As "old North floating", Zhang first floating in Beijing for many years, floating is not much high, sinking to the bottom.
十年前刚来北京那会儿，他还是个初出茅庐的毛头小子，一开始被人骗去做过推广，摆脱后又做了营销，随后借着电商的东风还做过淘宝店的生意小赚了一笔，在河北保定老家的县城里买了一套房子。
When he first came to Beijing ten years ago, he was a fledgling young man who had been tricked into doing promotion and then marketing, and then bought a house in the county town of Baoding, Hebei, thanks to the small business of Taobao Shop.
近年来直播兴起、电商落潮，跟不上时代的他因为收入惨淡只能被迫停止经营，去了一家公司帮出版社做一些印刷工作，工资不高但是清闲，“这个工作怎么说呢，也算对得起这个年纪了吧，能养家糊口就行。
He was forced to stop running because his income was so bad that he went to a company to help the publishing house do some printing work for a small but idle wage.
毕竟33岁了，还有老婆和孩子。
After all, 33, with a wife and kids.
”1月份，张先不大记得具体是17号还是18号回的家，他只记得自己回家的时候很惊慌——母亲的抽泣声从媳妇的来电中传来：“你爸被打了，眼睛都睁不开。
In January, Mr. Zhang couldn't remember exactly whether he was going home on the 17th or 18th. All he remembered was that he came home terrified - his mother's sobbing came from his daughter-in-law: "Your father was beaten and his eyes couldn't open.
”行凶者是家里的亲戚，同一个村的，只能吃个哑巴亏。
The assailant was a relative of the family, of the same village, and had to suffer from a dumbness.
父亲怕张先回家寻仇，等到他回家才肯去看病。
My father was afraid that Zhang would go home to seek revenge until he came home.
父亲一直患有面瘫，张先带他去医院检查后，发现是受伤加剧了病情导致左眼睑闭合不上。
His father has been suffering from facial paralysis, Zhang first took him to the hospital to check, found that the injury exacerbated the condition resulting in the closure of the left eyelid.
住院的那两天，他看着苍老且痛苦的父亲，暗下决心要让父亲过上好的生活。
During those two days in hospital, he looked at his old and miserable father and made up his mind to let him live a better life.
由于消息闭塞，直到21号陪父亲出院时被量体温，张先才知道疫情的消息。
As a result of the news, until 21 accompanied his father out of the hospital was taken temperature, Zhang did not know the news of the outbreak.
在那之后疫情的发展极为迅猛，网络、电视上各种新闻报道劈头盖脸地砸来，周边的村子陆续封村，只有张先所在的村子迟迟没有加入。
Since then, the epidemic has developed so rapidly that news reports on the Internet and television have been hurling at the surrounding villages, with the exception of Zhang's village.
听说村子北边小卖部老林家的儿子小林是从武汉回来的，妻子从他那儿买了很多东西，“密切接触”使得一家人忧心忡忡，偶然看到妻子在杀鸡，他觉得连鸡都是带着瘟的。
I heard that Xiao Lin, the son of the old Lin family in the northern part of the village, had come back from Wuhan. His wife had bought a lot of things from him.
大年初二，村子终于封起来了。
The village was finally sealed on the second day of New Year.
那段时间，每天新闻上报道的新增确诊病例数都在呈爆炸式增长，张先就坐在门口，边看着手机边一口一口的抽着烟，门口水泥地上的烟屁股也随之爆炸式增长。
The number of newly confirmed cases reported on the news each day grew explosively. Zhang sat at the door, watching as the phone began to puff away at the cigarette, and the butts on the concrete floor of the doorway exploded.
一开始据传潜伏期是一周左右，到了初四那会儿家里所有人都挺正常的，张先还没来得及松口气，就发现“潜伏期”又延长了。
It was rumored that the incubation period was about a week. By the time of the fourth grade, everyone in the family was quite normal.
潜伏期不断延长，复工也在不断延迟。
The incubation period continues to increase, as does the resumption of work.
北京复工的规定日期是2月10号，公司对此并不严格，但也有不少同事在10号左右就早早回了京。
Beijing is the scheduled date for resumption of work on February 10, the company is not strict about this, but a number of colleagues back to Beijing around the 10th early.
家人都劝张先不要返京，其实他自己心里也很忐忑，但最后却罕见地发起了火，把家里人都数落了一遍，最后质问道：“我不回去，谁养家？”家人纷纷噤声，却又对此感到非常疑惑。
Family members advised Zhang not to return to Beijing, in fact he was perturbed in his own mind, but in the end he was rare enough to start a fire, the family members all repeated, finally asked: "I will not go back, who support the family?" The family has been silent, but very puzzled.
在危机四伏的疫情中，为了保证资金的正常流转，很多中小企业将裁员提上了日程，张先没有告诉家人的是，他已经从自己公司内部听闻到类似风声了。
In the midst of a potentially dangerous epidemic, many small and medium-sized companies are laying off workers to ensure the normal flow of funds. What Mr. Zhang didn't tell his family was that he had heard similar rumors coming from within his company.
裁员，是企业和张先们不想面对又不得不面对的一道坎。
Redundancy, is the enterprise and Zhang Xianmen do not want to face and have to face a bar.
2家门口是一条南北向的小路，向南大概五六里的地方是一处池塘。
In front of the house is a north-south path, about five or six miles south is a pond.
确定复工延迟后，张先每天最爱做的一件事，就是从家走到池塘边，然后丝毫不停留地往家赶。
One of Zhang's favorite things to do every day after the resumption of work was to walk from home to the pond and then walk home without stopping.
他想：要是回京复工的路也能像这条路一样说走就走，那该多好。
He thought, If only the road back to Beijing would be as easy as this one.
2月13日早晨，张先最后一次踱步到了池塘，便跟着邻居老陈家的顺风车赶往北京。
On the morning of February 13, Zhang strolled to the pond for the last time, then drove to Beijing with his neighbor's old Chen family.
高速路上很空旷，见不到几辆车，就和大部分城市的街道一样。
The freeway is so empty that you can't see many cars, just like most city streets.
途中，他们经过一处服务区想补给一下，却没有吃的，没有商品，只有维修汽车的地方还有两个员工在值班。
On the way, they passed a service area trying to recharge, but there was no food, no merchandise, only two employees on duty in the area where the car was being repaired.
张先的出租屋位于顺义区俸伯站附近，是一栋自建的公寓。
Zhang Xian's rental housing is located near Shunyi District Housing Station, is a self-built apartment.
设施什么的都很差，但胜在便宜，700块钱一个月。
Everything was bad, but it was cheaper, 700 yuan a month.
张先在望京附近工作，很多在那儿打拼的人都会选择住在俸伯，因为地铁15号线不用换乘坐到头便好。
Zhang Xiang works near Wangjing, where many people will choose to live in the salary, because the subway line 15 does not have to change ride to the end.
每天下班，望京站通往俸伯的地铁，总要排上五六趟才能勉强挤得进去。
Every day off work, Wangjing station to pay Bo's subway, always lined up five or six times to squeeze into.
“回京人员到值班室登记，并自行隔离14天，没有登记和拒绝接受居家观察、集中观察等防控措施的，依法追究责任。
"Those who return to Beijing to register in the duty room and isolate themselves for 14 days without registering and refusing to accept control measures such as home observation or centralized observation will be held accountable according to law.
隔离14天结束之后，带着一寸照片到值班室办理出入证。
After 14 days of isolation, bring an inch photo to the duty room for a pass.
”公寓大门处，张先盯着房东递给自己的通知反反复复地看了好几遍，有些发懵。
At the door of the apartment, Zhang stared at the notice the landlord had given him and looked at it several times, stunned.
“你就知足吧，要再晚一天，你进公寓都要申请了，可麻烦了。
"You can't be too contented. You're going to have to apply for an apartment a day later.
”看到张先闷闷不乐，和他素来熟识的房东这样劝他。
Seeing Zhang sullenly, he was persuaded by the landlord he had known all along.
2月14号之后，返京的人员不得私自入住公寓，必须向辖区政府提出申请。
After February 14, people returning to Beijing are not allowed to live in apartments without permission and must apply to the government of the jurisdiction.
别的同事都已经复工，而他却还要再隔离14天，比别人少了这么多天，他想不出自己怎么才能逃出裁员名单。
His other colleagues had returned to work, and he was to be quarantined for another 14 days, so many days short of the others, that he could not think of how he could get out of the list.
那一瞬间，张先感觉脸上的口罩变成了一块胶布，死死地堵住了自己的口鼻，四周不断涌入的空气又开始变得沉闷起来。
At that moment, Zhang felt the face mask into a piece of tape, stubbornly blocked his nose and mouth, the air began to become boring.
呼吸，似乎变成了一种罪过。
Breathing, it seems, has become a sin.
周围屋子里并没有做饭的地方，点外卖需要去公寓大门口取，要走到马路边，挺远，好几百米。
There is no place to cook in the surrounding room. You need to pick it up in front of the entrance to the apartment.
张先选择去最近的一家超市购买了一箱泡面和三瓶桶装水，不远，才几里路。
Zhang chose to go to the nearest supermarket to buy a box of noodles and three bottles of water, not far, just a few miles away.
他花了将近一个小时的时间才拎着物资气喘嘘嘘地回到了公寓，打开门的一瞬间，空气的流通使得屋子里的灰尘一下子纷飞而来。
It took him nearly an hour to get back to the apartment gasping with his supplies, and the moment he opened the door, the air filled the house with dust.
下意识拿手扇动了几下后，他转身关上了门，一头倒在了床上。
After a few subconscious flaps, he turned to shut the door and threw himself on the bed.
3第二天临近中午的时候张先才起床，饿了就吃泡面，没有早中晚饭的概念；倦了就躺在床铺上闭目养神，失去了对黑夜白昼的明晰概念。
The next day near noon Zhang got up early, and when he was hungry, he ate noodles instead of the concept of morning and night. When he was tired, he lay on his bed and kept his head shut.
这就是张先在隔离期间头一周的真实生活，终日不见阳光，与周遭灰尘相伴，什么也不想干，循环往复。
This was Zhang's real life for the first week of her isolation, with no sunshine, dust around her and nothing to do.
隔离的第七天晚上，妻子打了个视频通话过来，被吵醒的张先赶忙摘掉了口罩抹了把脸让自己看上去不那么颓废。
On the seventh night of isolation, his wife made a video call and was woken up by Zhang, who quickly removed her mask and wiped her face to make her look less decadent.
电话接通后，他才发现屏幕上出现的是自己心心念念的儿子，看起来胖了不少，小脸颊都圆润起来了。
After the call was through, he noticed that the screen was filled with his own thoughtful son, looking fat and rosy-cheeked.
他不由自主地笑了起来，问儿子：“宝，怎么是你呀，妈妈呢？”“不知道啊，妈妈在下面呢，手机被我征用啦。
He couldn't help laughing, and asked his son, "Po, what is it about you, mother?" "I don't know.
”儿子托着下巴回答道。
"the son replied, chin in hand.
张先这才想起来儿子早就已经被家人小心翼翼地隔离了起来，和自己是同样的处境，但随即他有故意板起了脸问道：“不开学你在家干嘛呢，别光顾着玩游戏啊。
Zhang remembered that his son had long been carefully separated from his family, in the same situation as himself, but then he deliberately asked, "What are you doing at home when school starts?
”“我才没有，每天要在手机上上课，还要写作业，也不能出去玩，不过妈妈每天给我一个小时的时间玩游戏，你看我分出一点时间找你，是不是很好啊爸爸。
"" No, I have to go to class every day on my cell phone, do my homework and don't go out to play, but Mom gives me an hour a day to play games.
”儿子开始还有些愁眉苦脸，说着说着就渐渐地眉开眼笑了。
"My son began to look a little sad, and as he said this he began to smile.
“小宝真乖，来让爸爸亲一个......”电话挂断后，张先直起了酸痛的上半身，沉思了很久。
"Xiaobao really good, let father kiss a..." After the phone hang up, Zhang first straightened up the upper body of pain, pondered for a long time.
他突然觉得，同样是隔离，儿子这么小都比自己做得要好，他突然迫切地想要做一些事情。
He suddenly felt that it was the same isolation, that his son was so small and better than himself, and that he was suddenly anxious to do something.
从隔离的第八天开始，他有事没事就看看李佳琦的带货视频，看能不能琢磨出直播带货的诀窍，能不能把倒闭已久的淘宝店给捯饬出来。
From the eighth day of isolation, he has nothing to see Li Jiaqi with the video, to see whether the live broadcast can bring goods know-how, can the long-closed Taobao store to Dao out of the matter.
他不知道原来男的也可以涂口红，李佳琦的直播风格让他极度不适应，但听说这是时下最火的带货主播，他还是一场接着一场地看完了。
He didn't know that men could wear lipstick. Li Jia Qi's live style made him extremely uncomfortable, but he was told that it was the hottest carrier in the world and he watched one after another.
“做梦都是他，做梦都是OMG，你们年轻人应该知道那个口头禅吧，我还梦到自己也上手涂口红了。
"It's him, it's OMG in your dreams, you young people should know the mantra, and I have a dream that I too have put on lipstick.
”张先苦笑着摸了摸自己的脑袋，上面毛发稀疏。
Zhang touched his head with a wry smile, and the hair was thin.
除了研究直播，张先还下载了一个兼职app，期望能找到一个在线兼职。
In addition to live research, Zhang Xiang also downloaded a part-time app, hoping to find an online part-time job.
因为平时的工作会涉及到内容编辑和排版，张先很希望能找到类似的兼职，他看到了日结300的打字兼职，最后发现是拉进群里让人交押金的骗子，100块的押金，平日里警觉的他就像被洗了脑似地交了出去。
Zhang hoped to find a similar part-time job because his usual job involved content editing and typesetting. He saw a part-time job typing 300 on a daily basis, only to find out that he had been brainwashed into the group as a deposit, a deposit of $100.
“一朝被蛇咬，十年怕井绳”是张先一直信奉的道理，但这次他却没有再“怕”，那之后他看到了很多个类似的兼职，每次略微犹豫后还是点了进去，可最后发现全都是由同一家骗子发布的。
"Once bitten by a snake, twice shy of a well," Zhang had always believed in, but this time he was no longer "afraid." After that, he saw a lot of similar jobs and, after a slight hesitation, he ordered them, only to discover that they were all issued by the same swindler.
他不怕失望，只是怕没有希望。
He was not afraid of disappointment, but of hopelessness.
唯一靠谱的是一种名为“在线试玩”的兼职，下载应用软件试用三分钟就会给钱，但说好的三分钟往往都要等到五六分钟才能奏效。
The only thing on offer is a part-time job called an "online trial run," where downloading applications pay for three minutes, but says good three minutes often take five or six minutes to work.
张先用的是几年前买的iphone6，内存很小，如今使用起来非常的卡，通常从接任务到下载再到试玩结束，要花费十分钟甚至更长的时间，而报酬却只有几毛钱。
Mr. Zhang uses the iPhone 6 he bought a few years ago and has very little memory. Today, it takes ten minutes or more to use an unusual card, usually from receiving a task to downloading to the end of a trial run, while the rewards are a few cents.
一天下来，张先的总收入是20来块，他还没来得及安慰自己好歹抵得上一顿饭钱，就被颈椎病一波一波地疼痛袭扰得浑身乏力。
At the end of the day, Zhang's total income was about 20 yuan. Before he could comfort himself with a meal, he was paralyzed by waves of pain from cervical spondylosis.
当我和他视频聊天做采访时，他的画面还老是会变成一片漆黑。
When I interviewed him on video chats, his pictures would always turn black.
我问起来，他略显尴尬地回答：“我又去那个软件上看了看有没有什么合适的兼职可以做。
"I asked, slightly embarrassed," I went back to the software to see if there was any part-time job I could do.
”末了还补上一句，“我不是急，主要是太无聊了，没事干。
At last he added, "I am not in a hurry; I am mainly too bored to do anything.
”张先从未想过自己的烦闷得以舒缓是始于一次“串门”。
Zhang never thought her boredom would ease after a "drop-in."
按照规定，同公寓内的隔离人员是不准擅自串门的。
According to the regulations, the quarantine personnel in the apartment are not allowed to visit the door without permission.
开始他并未在意，因为平日公寓里打工的人都是行色匆匆、互不干扰。
At first he didn't care because the people who worked in the apartment on weekdays were all in a hurry and did not disturb each other.
住在对门的是一个20多岁的小伙阿辉，一头黄毛加偏分，打着耳钉还纹了一个大花臂。
Living on the opposite door is a man in his twenties, A Hui, a yellow hair plus a side, with earrings and a big flower arm.
张先原本一直看不上他，偶尔回家凑巧碰见他叼着根烟经过，都会不由自主地加快步伐。
Zhang Xiang had always looked down on him, occasionally came home to meet him with a cigarette in his mouth, will involuntarily step up the pace.
阿辉在北京一家理发店做理发师，是最低档次的那种，说白了就算半个学徒。
A Hui works as a hairdresser in a Beijing barber's shop. He is the lowest grade.
外表只是大环境下渲染而成，其实他内里是个很羞涩的人。
Appearance is just a big environment rendering, in fact he is a very shy person inside.
让张先惊讶的是，理发店竟也裁员，而且阿辉在返京之前就明确地知道自己已被辞退。
To Zhang's surprise, the barber shop also laid off workers, and Ah Hui clearly knew he had been fired before returning to Beijing.
面对张先的疑惑，阿辉的声音透过门板传来：“早点回来，也能早点找到新的活儿。
In the face of Mr. Zhang's doubts, Ah Hui's voice came through the door panel: "Come back early, you can find new work earlier.
失业的人虽然多，但说不定疫情过去了，又要招人了呢？”阿辉认为隔离期间既然做不了什么事，那不如就打打游戏，似乎一点也没受到影响，完全不像一个没有积蓄还丢了工作的北漂。
Although the number of unemployed people, but perhaps the epidemic is over, and want to hire people? "Ah Hui believes that the isolation period since can not do anything, it seems to play the game, as if not affected at all, like a no savings and lost their jobs North drift.
张先对比了一下自己，感慨颇多，也许这就是年轻人和中年人的区别。
Zhang Xiang compared himself, feeling quite much, perhaps this is the difference between young people and middle-aged people.
回到家躺下，张先虽然还有些焦虑，经常会看一看李佳琦和兼职软件，但心情已然平复了很多。
Back home to lie down, although Zhang Xiang is still a little anxious, often take a look at Li Jiach and part-time software, but the mood has calmed down a lot.
他还和很多朋友打过视频电话，大家基本都是和他一样返京隔离的人，有不少是他的同事。
He also made video phone calls with a lot of friends, and most of them were people who came back to Beijing like him, many of whom were his colleagues.
这里面，有人和他一样想找新的出路突围，也有人静下心来练一门乐器，还有人专心烹饪自娱自乐。
There were people like him who wanted to find a new way out, others who settled down to practice an instrument, and still others who devoted themselves to cooking for their own enjoyment.
病毒肆虐，可隔离期的生活似乎比以往要更加多姿多彩。
The virus is raging and life in isolation seems to be more colourful than ever.
好像每个人都比张先活得轻松，又好像每个人其实都和张先一样。
Everyone seems to live easier than Zhang and everyone seems to be the same as Zhang.
4时间转瞬即逝，剩下的一周很快就过去了。
Time flies, and the rest of the week passes quickly.
2月26日，隔离的最后一天，公司裁员依旧没有确切消息，淘宝店没有琢磨出门道，手机赚钱更是如同镜花水月，早晨张先躺在床上给我发消息，“感觉这一切都接踵而至压在他身上，有些喘不过气。
On February 26, the last day of isolation, the company layoffs are still not accurate, Taobao shop did not ponder out the road, mobile phone money is like a mirror, Zhang first lay in bed in the morning to send messages to me, "all this will come on to him, a bit breathless.
”我不知该怎么安慰他，没想到下午他突然给我发来一个链接，一点开，是网上曝光的生活在武汉地下停车场的外地滞留人员的相关视频，他们有家不能回，没有钱、没有居所甚至不一定能有食物。
I didn't know how to comfort him until this afternoon he suddenly sent me a link, a little bit of it, a video about stranded people living in an underground parking lot in Wuhan who had no home, no money, no place to live or even food.
“我不是想通过比惨来获得什么安慰，但是我确实比不上他们，至少我愁的是生活，而他们愁的是生存。
"I don't mean to console myself by comparing misfortunes, but I am not nearly as bad as they are. At least I am worried about life, and they are worried about survival.
”张先随后说道，似乎有点释然。
"Zhang Xian said later, looking a little relieved.
那天，张先没再看李佳琦的直播录像，没再在网上寻找着“手机发财”的泡沫，他想到了阿辉，别的游戏他玩不来，就下载了很多小游戏玩了一下午。
That day, Zhang did not see Li Jiaqi's live video, no longer looking for the "mobile phone wealth" bubble, he thought of Ah Hui, other games he could not play, downloaded a lot of small games played all afternoon.
他说：“感觉这是年轻时候会做的事和持有的心态，好像真的变年轻了，就不会有那么多的顾虑。
"It feels like it was something that you would have done and that you had when you were younger," he said. "It really seems to be getting younger and you don't have that much to worry about.
”晚上9点，张先准备睡觉，他想自己或终于可以不再梦到李佳琦了。
At 9 p.m., Zhang was getting ready for bed and thought he might finally be able to stop dreaming of Li Jia Qi.
27日隔离期满，张先早早地起了床，打开所有窗户，空气清醒得让他有些惊喜，洗漱完毕、穿戴整齐后，他换上了一个新的口罩，腋下夹着皮包汇入了复工的人群，一如往日。
When the quarantine expired on the 27th, Zhang got out of bed early and opened all the windows. The air was so clear that he was pleasantly surprised. After washing and dressing neatly, he changed into a new mask.
这场“战疫”影响了很多的人，不仅有患者、有医护人员，还有千千万万个像张先一样的复工隔离人员。
The epidemic has affected many people, not only patients, medical staff, but also tens of thousands of people like Zhang back to work isolation.
进一步是生活的重压，退一步是生命的底线。
Further is the stress of life, a step back is the bottom line of life.
但张先最后选择相信：“日子总归是会越过越好的，非典过去了，新冠肺炎也不例外。
But Zhang Xian finally chose to believe: "The day will always cross the better, SARS is over, the new crown pneumonia is no exception.
”（本文系采访，张先等为化名）-END-- 我 是 故 事 练 习 生 -//乌克丽丽上的阳光宅女。
"(In this interview, Zhang Xianet wait for an alias) - END - I'm an active student - / / The Sunshine House on Ukrilly.
//作者|林鹿，青年作者。
/ / Rhino Lin, young author.
题图|《后来的我们》剧照华中科技大学出版社·武汉战“疫”数博馆抗击新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情作品资料正在征集中——【征集要求】＊来稿应为未公开发表和出版的内容，题材不限，VLOG、文字、图片等均可，务必客观真实，反映疫情当下的民生现况及个人见闻；＊提供作品者都将获得华中科技大学出版社提供的“宅家悦读大礼包”；＊作品一旦录用，将提供完整规范的版权保护。
2007-9-24 16: 55) 2007-9-24 16: 23 The Chinese University of Science and Technology Press, Wuhan Battle of the Epidemiology Department, is soliciting information on the fight against the new coronavirus infection pneumonia.
【投稿方式】音视频：2279281426@qq.com文字：423322329@qq.com图片：454578039@qq.com或点击下方链接直接投稿http://2019ncov.xiushewang.com/请务必留下真实姓名及详细联系方式。
Audio and Video: 2279281426 @ qq.com Text: 423322329 @ qq.com Photo: 454578039 @ qq.com or click the link below to contribute directly http: / / 2019ncov.xiushewang.com / Please make sure to leave your real name and contact details.
“我故”故事练习生培养计划，详情请戳：培养计划|加入“故事创造营”，你就是未来写作之星！About us主编：鹿｜本期编辑：鹿Contact us投稿/商务合作/咨询微信后台留言or 邮箱：wmsygsdr@163.com我们是有故事的人｜华中科技大学出版社官方故事平台。
I Am Here Story Training Program, for details: Join the Story Creation Camp, where you are the star of future writing! Deer Contacts / Business Collaboration / Consultation Letter Backstage Message or Mailbox: wmsygsdr @ 163.com We are storytellers, official story platform at HUST Press.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
返京焦虑期，他尝试在出租屋里做直播。
During the Anxiety Period in Beijing, he tried to live it live in a rental house.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "我们是有故事的人";。
Var nickname = & quot; We are someone with a story & quot;;
var msg_title = "返京焦虑期，他尝试在出租屋里做直播";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; in his rental room.
var msg_desc = "无数和他一样的人，在为工作和生活发愁。
var msg _ desc = & quot; and countless others like him are worried about their jobs and lives.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="我们是有故事的人";。
Var title = & quot; We are someone with a story & quot;;
