“云游敦煌”用户十天破百万，文旅行业打开新风口。
"Cloud tour Dunhuang" users 10 days break million, the travel industry to open a new air.
大风 罗辑。
A gale of wind.
锌财经                      。
Zinc Finance.
锌财经。
Zinc Finance.
新商业的记录者，新经济的推动者。
Record-keeper of new business, promoter of new economy.
。
.
文/大风 罗辑编辑/单一新冠疫情让文旅业失去了一整个冬天，游客出门受限，机构纷纷闭馆。
The Wen / Gale Editor / Single New Crown Epidemic has deprived the travel industry of all winter. Visitors are restricted from travelling and institutions are closed.
一种新型文化旅游模式随之悄然兴起，上千家文博机构办起了“线上游，既满足游客禁足在家，心向往之的当下需求，也为了自身的转型自救。
A new cultural tourism model has sprung up, and thousands of cultural and sports organizations have set up "line upstream, not only to meet the needs of tourists to stay at home, but also to save their own transformation.
“云游敦煌”小程序称得上是“线上游”体验最佳的一款，游客动动指尖，就能感受1600多年的敦煌文化之美，让敦煌这一传统文博机构在短时间内迅速圈粉，焕发新的生机。
"Cloud tour Dunhuang" small procedures can be said to be the "line upstream" experience the best experience, tourists can move fingertips, you can feel more than 1600 years of Dunhuang culture, so that Dunhuang this traditional cultural and cultural institutions in a short period of time quickly circle pollination, full of new vitality.
这款小程序由敦煌研究院和腾讯联合推出，上线十天，独立访问用户就超过了100万人，相当于2015年敦煌的全年线下接待量。
Launched by Dunhuang Academy and Tencent, the program is now 10 days old, with more than 1 million unique visitors, equivalent to the year-round offline reception in Dunhuang in 2015.
文博机构如何更好地面向社会、适应当下，拥有悠久历史和深厚积淀的敦煌给出了答案，同时也给文化旅游业带来了新的启示。
How to better face the society and adapt to the present, Dunhuang has a long history and profound accumulation of answers, but also brought new enlightenment to cultural tourism.
足不出户在线游“云游敦煌”小程序把石窟丰富的壁画内容搬到线上，进行分类呈现和深入解读。
On-line tour "Cloud Dunhuang" small procedures to the grotto rich murals content moved to the line, for classification presentation and in-depth interpretation.
游客 “云”参观敦煌艺术，可以按照艺术类型、朝代、颜色等维度去自行探索， “身临其境”地领略敦煌石窟艺术的风采，感知敦煌壁画中丰富的文化内涵和充盈的美学价值。
"Cloud" visitors to Dunhuang art, according to the types of art, dynasties, colors and other dimensions to explore their own, "personally experience" Dunhuang grotto art elegant demeanor, the sense of Dunhuang murals rich cultural connotation and full of aesthetic value.
游客打开小程序，每天都能获得一幅“每日画语”，以及专属壁画背后的历史和寓言故事，这不是简单的一幅幅壁画图案，其上融合了古人的智慧妙语，还可以定制主题内容。
Visitors can open a little program, get a daily painting language, and the history and parable behind the murals, which are not simple murals, but which incorporate the wisdom of the ancients and customize the subject matter.
“云游敦煌”小程序中“每日画语”历经千年之久，四大文明交会融合的敦煌壁画，无论是秀骨清像还是雄浑有力，无论是温婉动人还是潇洒飘逸，今天宅在家中的游客，观赏时都能感受到一种心胸开阔，超越世俗的大美。
After thousands of years, the Dunhuang frescoes of the four great civilizations meet and merge, whether they are graceful, graceful or elegant, the visitors in the home today can feel an open-minded and unworldly beauty.
人们在浏览、冥想敦煌壁画时所产生的情绪共鸣，正是千年智慧流入寻常人家的场景定格。
When people browse and meditate on Dunhuang frescoes, the emotional resonance is exactly the scene of a thousand years of wisdom flowing into ordinary people.
游客一边观赏，还可以一边标记“想去“，真正去实地参观时，可以着重了解标记过的内容，用线上”翻卡片“的方式快速了解和对照。
Visitors can watch it and mark it as "Yes," and when they actually visit the site, they can focus on what they have marked and quickly learn and compare notes by flipping cards on the line.
如果深入游览，还可以直达“敦煌诗巾”小程序，它是近年来敦煌最为外界称道的一款文创尝试。
If the in-depth tour, but also directly to the "Dunhuang Scarves" small procedures, it is Dunhuang in recent years, the most widely praised a creative attempt.
用户在“敦煌诗巾”上，可以自由选择主题元素，比如著名的第257窟的九色鹿，然后从200多个来自藻井图案细节中挑选元素，完成满意的DIY设计后，可以放入数字展览馆参展，也可以选择一键下单，定制成实物纪念品。
Users are free to choose the theme elements, such as the nine-color deer in the famous Grotto 257, and then choose from more than 200 elements from the details of the caisson design. After satisfactory DIY design, they can put it into the digital exhibition hall or choose one button to order and make a souvenir.
2018年小程序上线时，一个月时间的用户参与量超过了300万。
When the applet went live in 2018, more than 3 million users participated in one month.
敦煌诗巾8大主题图案“数字供养人”项目也作为产品模块整合进“云游敦煌”。
Dunhuang verses napkin 8 major theme pattern "Digital Supplier" project is also integrated into the "Yunyou Dunhuang" as the product module.
古代敦煌，佛教信徒为莫高窟营造提供经济等方面的支持，他们被称作“供养人”，“数字供养人”借用了这一概念。
In ancient Dunhuang, Buddhists provided economic and other support for the construction of Mogao Grottoes. They were called "providers," and "digital providers" borrowed the concept.
网友花0.9元就能为抢救壁画捐赠，还能获得一个敦煌 “智慧锦囊”。
The netizen spends 0.9 yuan to be able to rescue murals to donate, still can obtain a Dunhuang "wisdom brocade".
捐助者在社交媒体上的分享，接力扩大了传播范围。
Donor sharing on social media has broadened the reach of the relay.
敦煌还直接进入到游戏《王者荣耀》之中，设计师将“敦煌飞天”的形象制作成皮肤道具，形象逼真，美轮美奂，用户下载数量高达4000万。
Dunhuang also directly into the game "the glory of the king," the designer will "Dunhuang flying sky" into the image of skin props, vivid, magnificent, users download up to 40 million.
王者荣耀x敦煌飞天皮肤这些项目，都出自腾讯之手。
The glory of the king x Dunhuang flying skin these items, all from Tencent's hand.
经典文化为体，现代科技为用，敦煌走进了普通用户的生活，赋予人们的日常以更多色彩。
Classic culture as a body, modern science and technology for use, Dunhuang into the lives of ordinary users, give people more color to daily life.
敦煌之美，如此之近。
The beauty of Dunhuang is so near.
云上再建博物馆“云游“模式基于游客的现实需求，更是文博机构转型升级的一个新抓手，这背后有着深层次的行业背景。
The re-establishment of museum "cloud tour" model is based on the actual needs of tourists, but also a new grasp of the institutional transformation of Wenbo upgrade, which has a deep industry background.
以敦煌石窟为例，敦煌地处中国西北，是河西走廊最西面的城市。
Dunhuang grottoes, for example, is located in northwest China and is the westernmost city in the Hexi Corridor.
从敦煌出发，到达西北的中心城市西安，其距离和北京前往广州接近，位置偏远、交通不便，导致海内外游客的到达率相对较低。
From Dunhuang to the northwest of the central city of Xi'an, its distance from Beijing to Guangzhou, remote location, inconvenient transportation, resulting in relatively low tourist arrivals at home and abroad.
从气候条件来看，寒冷的天气导致景区也不适合参观。
In view of the climatic conditions, the cold weather makes the scenic spot unsuitable for the visit.
敦煌每年会有一半时间处于淡季。
Dunhuang is in low season for half the year.
反之，旺季的敦煌石窟则非常拥挤，敦煌莫高窟景区中的壁画、彩塑和建筑，面临较大的保护压力。
Conversely, Dunhuang grottoes in busy season are very crowded, Dunhuang Mogao Grottoes in the murals, plastic and buildings, face greater protection pressure.
相对于故宫一年的游客数量可以达到2000万之多，敦煌一年接待200万人次的游客已经实属不易。
The number of visitors to the Forbidden City can reach 20 million a year. Dunhuang receives 2 million visitors a year is not easy.
去过敦煌莫高窟的人都知道，为了保护这些文物古迹，大量石窟其实并没有开放。
Anyone who has been to Dunhuang Mogao Grottoes knows that a large number of grottos have not been opened to protect them.
当然，敦煌研究院早在1993年就意识到了这些，开始着手研究数字化壁画，目前已经完成147个重点洞窟的数字化保存工作。
Of course, Dunhuang Academy has been aware of these since 1993, began to study digital murals, and has now completed the digital preservation of 147 key caves.
2017年开始，敦煌和腾讯合作，重点是继续通过数字化和互联网方式进行敦煌文化传播，在创新中传承敦煌文化。
Starting in 2017, Dunhuang and Tencent cooperation, the focus is to continue the digital and Internet means of Dunhuang cultural transmission, in innovation to inherit Dunhuang culture.
“云游敦煌”微信小程序原计划今年5月上线，新冠疫情发生后，莫高窟等石窟停止对外开放，敦煌与腾讯一起与时间赛跑，赶在春节档推出了小程序的抢先体验版，将敦煌壁画送上“云端”。
After the outbreak of the new crown, Mogao Grottoes and other grottoes were closed to the public. Dunhuang and Tencent raced against time to launch a pre-emptive version of the procedures to send Dunhuang murals to the clouds.
“云游敦煌”小程序“云游敦煌”吸引了一批向往而不能至的游客，也吸引了那些不了解敦煌的潜在游客，而后者是更大的受众群体。
"Cloud tour Dunhuang" procedure "Cloud tour Dunhuang" attracted a group of tourists who could not reach, but also those who do not know Dunhuang, the latter is a larger audience.
让敦煌文化的“小白们”以更快更准地了解敦煌，“云游敦煌”小程序浏览可能是最好的途径了。
Let Dunhuang culture "little white people" to understand Dunhuang more quickly and accurately, "cloud tour Dunhuang" small program browsing may be the best way.
敦煌研究院院长赵声良近期在人民日报上发表一篇文章，提出希望通过这种“科技+文化”的方式，让千年传统文化“飞”入更多寻常百姓家，与大众产生互动。
Zhao Xianliang, dean of Dunhuang Academy, recently published an article in the People's Daily that hopes to "fly" thousands of years of traditional culture into more ordinary families and interact with the public through this "technology plus culture" approach.
“云游”这些既现代又传统的壁画，敦煌进入日常生活毫无违和，这正是“新文创”赋予传统文化穿越千年、融入现代生活的力量。
"Clouds" these are both modern and traditional murals, Dunhuang into daily life without violation, this is the "new literary creation" to give the traditional culture across the millennium, integration into modern life.
文物展览由线下延伸到线上，直接打破了时空界限，也直接回应了传统文化在传播和互动层面的种种局限。
The exhibition of cultural relics extends from the offline to the line, thus directly breaking the boundaries of space and time and directly responding to the limitations of traditional culture in terms of communication and interaction.
看似是一个聚集了几千张壁画的”线上展览“，实际上，“云游敦煌“是敦煌研究院联手腾讯再造的一个无边界的云上博物馆，是多元创意传播的集合地与切入口。
It looks like an "online exhibition" with thousands of murals. In fact, "Cloud Tour Dunhuang" is a borderless cloud museum reconstructed by Dunhuang Research Institute. It is the gathering place and the gateway of multi-creative communication.
文博机构对文物遗迹做数字化保护，需要借助各种数字内容形态，比如公益、动漫、游戏、音乐、文学等等，在创新中普及、传播和传承传统文化。
To protect the relics digitally, cultural and cultural institutions need to popularize, disseminate and transmit traditional culture through various forms of digital content, such as public welfare, animation, games, music, literature, etc.
腾讯的加入，促进了敦煌文化的数字化创新和再生产，从 “新文创”模式探索，进入到了深度数字化的新阶段，也延伸到了在“智慧文旅”领域打造样本。
Tencent's addition promoted the digital innovation and reproduction of Dunhuang culture, from the "new creation" mode of exploration, into a new phase of deep digitization, but also extended to the "wisdom of the literary brigade" to create samples.
智慧文旅新样本“博物馆犹如人类文明的诺亚方舟”。
"Museums are like Noah's Ark of human civilization."
正是如此，做好对文物古迹的修复和保护，是文博机构最基础的职责，而数字化本身就是一种对遗存文化的保护，用最新技术让文物样貌永远留存；而技术力量加速了博物馆疆域的拓展，线上“敦煌”与线下实地的莫高窟成为并行空间，通过数字文保创造出了另一个维度。
Thus, the restoration and preservation of cultural relics and monuments is the most basic duty of the cultural and cultural institutions, and digitization itself is a protection of the cultural relic, which is preserved forever by the latest technology.
以数字文保构造产业基石，以“新文创”战略思维激发内容创造，革新产业内容供给，也在悄然推动行业迈向更广阔的“智慧文旅”前景。
Digital guarantee industry foundation stone, with "new literature creation" strategic thought stimulates content creation, innovates the industry content supply, also is pushing the industry stealthily to the broader "wisdom travel" foreground.
让亿万数字用户，不用来到敦煌现场也能接触到敦煌文化，也能体悟敦煌千年智慧与美，这正是文博机构所期待的中长期目标，也是智慧文旅可以带来的理想结果。
Let hundreds of millions of digital users, do not have to come to Dunhuang scene can also be exposed to Dunhuang culture, but also understand Dunhuang wisdom and beauty, this is the medium-term and long-term goals expected by Wenbo institutions, and is also the ideal outcome that intelligent literary travel can bring.
针对这一趋势，赵声良在前述署名文章中也深度剖析：线上数字化展览和线下展览是相辅相成的，可以“比翼齐飞”，前者加速了信息传播，游客也能够打破时空界限，以更低的成本观展。
In response to this trend, Zhao also thoroughly dissected in the aforementioned byline article: online digital exhibitions and offline exhibitions complement each other and can "fly in unison," accelerating the spread of information and enabling visitors to see exhibitions at lower cost across time and space.
同时拥有线上和线下两个展览渠道，能够使得信息发布更广、内容传递更深、互动形式更多、展览效果更持久。
Having two exhibition channels, online and offline, allows for wider dissemination of information, deeper content delivery, more interactive formats and more lasting exhibition effects.
“云游敦煌”小程序中的智慧服务很明显，“云游敦煌”构建了一种“智慧文旅”产业的新模式，折射出以下三点新思路。
"Cloud tour Dunhuang" small procedures in the wisdom service is obvious, "Yunyou Dunhuang" to build a "wise literary brigade" industry a new model, reflecting the following three new ideas.
其一，构建可随时在线游览的文旅新形态。
One is to build a new style of travel that can be visited online at any time.
随时触手可及的壁画、雕塑，改变了游客对于游览开始与结束的定义，也打破了文旅行业原有的时空概念。
The readily available frescoes and sculptures have changed the definition of the beginning and end of the tour and the original concept of time and space in the travel industry.
换句话说，只要你一直在使用“云游敦煌”，它就是一家不关门的博物馆。
In other words, as long as you have been using Dunhuang Yunyou, it is a closed museum.
这种可随时在线游览的新形态，将会对行业产生长远的影响。
This new form of online tourism will have a long-term impact on the industry.
正如电子商务的诞生，不仅仅是商品信息的承载平台发生了变化，变化本身蕴含着巨大的可能。
Just as the birth of electronic commerce, not only the bearing platform of commodity information has changed, the change itself contains a huge possibility.
其二，建立机构与游客前所未有的紧密连接。
Second, the establishment of institutions and visitors as never before closely linked.
通过一款小程序，游客能了解景区状态、在线购票、智慧导览、购买文创品等，未来还预留有丰富的功能扩展空间。
Through a small program, visitors can understand the status of the scenic spot, online ticket purchase, wisdom tour, purchase literature and other products, there is also a rich space for future functional expansion.
这种连接涉及幅度广泛，意味着游客的全方位需求以一种在线、高效的方式得到满足。
This wide range of connections means that the full range of tourist needs is met in an online, efficient manner.
对于文旅机构而言，这种连接还体现在游客所提供的丰富的大数据维度，可以帮助文旅机构优化自身管理，更好地服务游客，长远推动文博机构的运行趋于更加合理化。
For the cultural tourism organizations, this kind of connection is also reflected in the rich big data dimension provided by tourists, which can help them to optimize their management, better serve the tourists, and further rationalize the operation of cultural and cultural institutions in the long run.
其三，打造不断生长、快速更新迭代的平台。
Third, to create a growing, fast-updating iterative platform.
“云游敦煌”可以定义为一款产品，也可以定义为平台。
"Cloud Dunhuang" can be defined as a product, or as a platform.
功能迅速迭代、用户量急剧增长的情况，过去曾经发生在诸如社交、电商、O2O等行业，但发生在文旅行业尚属开端。
Rapid iterations of functionality and exponential growth in the number of users have occurred in the past in sectors such as social networking, electronics, O2O, etc., but are still in the early stages of the travel industry.
相比网页和APP，小程序形态本身决定了它的迭代效率更高，体验成本更低，社交流转更快。
Compared with web pages and APPs, the small program shape itself makes it more iterative, less costly to experience, and faster to socialize with.
首次上线时，在上述已提供的多项产品功能基础上，官方已经表示将陆续上线声音解说、智慧零售的功能。
On the first go-live, in the above-mentioned has provided a number of product features, the authorities have said that will be on-line voice commentary, smart retail function.
这种线上线下贯通的产品模式在其他文博乃至文旅机构中可以很容易地进行复制。
This online offline product model can be easily replicated in other literature and literature as well as in travel agencies.
新冠疫情阴霾下，文化旅游行业复苏，还需要较长的恢复期。
New crown haze, cultural tourism industry recovers, need longer period of recovery.
“云游敦煌”开启的新模式，给行业带来新的参考借鉴，这足以引发我们对“智慧文旅”产业未来前景的想象。
"Cloud tour Dunhuang" the opening of the new model, to bring new reference to the industry, which is enough to trigger our "intelligent travel" industry vision for the future.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“云游敦煌”用户十天破百万，文旅行业打开新风口。
"Cloud tour Dunhuang" users 10 days break million, the travel industry to open a new air.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "锌财经";。
Var nickname = & quot; zinc finance & quot;;
var msg_title = "“云游敦煌”用户十天破百万，文旅行业打开新风口";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "云上游览博物馆，智慧文旅新样本。
var msg _ desc = & quot; visited the museum on a cloud, a new sample of Wisdom Travel.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="锌财经";。
Var title = & quot; Zinc & Finance & quot;;
