没体检、没隔离、没有名分的方舱志愿者。
No medical check-up, no isolation, no point in the cabin volunteers.
没体检、没隔离、没有名分的方舱志愿者。
No medical check-up, no isolation, no point in the cabin volunteers.
任尚坤。
Ren Shankun.
商业人物                      。
Business people.
商业人物。
Business people.
定义中国商业力量。
Defining China's commercial power.
作者：任尚坤来源：商业人物（ID：biz-leaders)3月10日下午5点，武汉所有方舱医院全部休舱。
Author: Ren Shankun Source: Business figures (ID: biz-leders) March 10 5: 00 p.m., Wuhan all the cabin hospitals are closed.
不过，还有些遗留问题等待处理。
However, some residual issues remain to be addressed.
11日中午，“商业人物”接到蓝潜的电话，他自称是洪山体育馆武昌方舱医院的安保人员。
11 noon, "business people" received a phone call, he said he was Hongshan Stadium Wuchang cabin hospital security personnel.
他和同伴们被要求离开酒店，没有体检，没有安排隔离点。
He and his companions were asked to leave the hotel without a medical examination and without an isolation location.
“当初说是招募志愿者，其实就是安保公司的临时工。
"When I said I was recruiting volunteers, I was actually a temp for a security company.
”蓝潜是封城后滞留在了武汉，后来通过微信群里的中介代理加入到方舱安保巡逻队。
Blue Sky remained in Wuhan after sealing the city, then joined the cabin security patrol through intermediaries in the micromail group.
休舱是好事，但他不知道自己该去哪里，出不了武汉，又找不到其他酒店和社区愿意收留。
The cabin break was a good thing, but he did not know where to go, could not get out of Wuhan, and could not find other hotels and communities willing to take in.
吃住都是问题。
Food and shelter are both problems.
更重要的，他称自己还是流动的潜在隐患。
More important, he said, he was a potential source of liquidity.
体检与隔离这些以志愿者名义招来的临时安保人员，除蓝潜外，还包括外来武汉的打工者和居住在这里的本地人。
Examine and isolate these temporary security personnel in the name of volunteers, in addition to blue potential, but also include imported workers and residents of Wuhan.
单他们所在的方舱医院有50人左右。
Their cabin hospital alone has about 50 people.
目前，大部分已经四散而去，仅留下他们十来人“抱团取暖”。
At present, most of them have scattered, leaving only about a dozen of them "huddled together" to keep warm.
蓝潜不明白，对这些之前在方舱执勤的人，休舱后是否该有相应体检和隔离措施。
Blue submersible does not understand that these people before the cabin duty, after the cabin should have the corresponding medical check-up and isolation measures.
据他讲，部分人要进内舱协助医生维持秩序，疏散病人，“就算不进内舱，我们天天在门口巡逻，和病人也算间接接触者了”。
Some people, he said, had to go inside to help doctors maintain order and evacuate patients. "Even if we don't go inside, we patrol the door every day, and the patients are indirect contacts."
3月11日，安保公司下发了一张电子版的工作证明，让他们拿着这个“各回各家”，其内文明确写着：此证明当日有效。
On 11 March, the security company issued an electronic copy of the job certificate, asking them to take the "go home," which clearly states: "This certificate is valid for the day.
自中午开始，一天时间，安保公司再没给他们安排饭食。
Since noon, they have not been fed at all by the security services for one day.
可回家的路并不畅通。
But the road home is not clear.
王杰的家人不希望他这样直接回去。
Wang Jie's family did not want him to go straight back.
他心里也不踏实，“自己到底是不是安全的，是应该集中隔离还是居家隔离”。
He was not sure, "whether he is safe after all, should concentrate on isolation or isolation at home."
他听说，社区有隔离收留点的，会由社区来安排吃住，但他所在的社区并没有。
He had heard that the community had segregated shelters and that the community arranged for food and accommodation, but his community did not.
社区要求他递交体检报告或隔离证明。
He was required by the community to submit a medical report or isolation certificate.
“上岗前没有任何体检，中途来了CT机，公司让部分队员做了试机体验。
"There was no pre-service medical examination, midway to the CT machine, the company let some team members do a trial run experience.
”和他同样处境的另一个工友，在家附近的小旅馆住了一宿。
Another of his fellow-workmen, who was in the same boat, spent the night at a small hotel near his home.
王杰则跟公司僵持着留在了酒店。
Wang Jie and the company standoff stayed at the hotel.
他们所在的微信群里，有其他人反应，社区不认可那张工作证明。
There were other people in their small group who responded that the community did not approve of the job attestation.
包括王杰在内的不少人，都是在方舱医院初建时就到位了，上岗时间为2月5日左右。
Many people, including Wang Jie, were in place at the beginning of the construction of the cabin hospital, the onboarding time is around February 5.
刚来时，公司给他们配备了正规的口罩、防护服与医用手套等，后来装备换成了雨衣和橡胶手套。
When they first arrived, they were provided with proper masks, protective clothing and medical gloves, which were later replaced with raincoats and rubber gloves.
“都不是一次性的，告诉我们不允许丢，工作做完还要上交。
"It's not a one-time job. Tell us not to throw it, to turn it in when it's done.
”蓝潜说，他每天要把这些东西带回酒店，自始至终没消过毒。
"Blue Sky said he took the items back to the hotel every day and didn't poison them from start to finish.
早些时候，有个同在方舱做安保的人就对“商业人物”讲过，他觉得太危险，所以工作完20天就离开了。
Earlier, a fellow cabin security guard had told the Businessman that he felt too dangerous and left after 20 days of work.
可因为是外地滞留人员，他出来后没找到合适去处，大街上流浪了一天。
But because he is a stranded person, he came out did not find a suitable place, wandering on the street for a day.
最后，他在“难友”的帮助下得到了政府安置。
Finally, with the help of "difficult friends," he was placed by the government.
他始终没做过身体检查。
He has never had a physical examination.
尽管那会儿，武汉的疫情形势远比现在严峻。
Even then, the situation in Wuhan was far more serious than it is now.
算账与好消息钱的问题，多数情况都是负责招募他们的中介来谈。
The question of the payoff and the good news is mostly taken up by the agents responsible for their recruitment.
11日中午，蓝潜被通知搬离酒店时，公司只给到他一千块钱，说剩下的明天结算。
11 noon, blue submarine was told to move out of the hotel, the company gave him only 1000 yuan, said the rest of tomorrow settlement.
这让他大为恼火，叫上其他工友表示抗议。
This irritated him so much that he called his fellow workers to protest.
“后来代理被安保公司要求给我们按时清账。
"The agent was later asked by the security company to clear our accounts on time.
”蓝潜讲，他们这才没被拖欠工资。
"Blue submarine said they were not in arrears.
蓝潜要进内舱执勤，日薪是260元/8工时，但前提要求“做到疫情结束”，否则按每天230元计算。
Blue dive into the interior duty, the daily wage is 260 yuan / 8 hours, but the premise is to "achieve the end of the epidemic," or 230 yuan per day.
王杰主要负责外岗巡逻，日薪230元/12工时，工作满30天再额外多给500元。
Wang Jie is mainly responsible for outpost patrols, the daily wage of 230 yuan / 12 working hours, 30 days of service plus an additional 500 yuan.
不过，有其他外岗工友遇到了和王杰不同的情况，招他们的代理最初口头协议是，做满整月按每天250元计算，可现在到手的钱也统一成了每天230元。
However, there are other laid-off workers encountered a different situation from Wang Jie, recruit their agent initially oral agreement is to do a full month at 250 yuan, but now the money is unified into 230 yuan a day.
而在距离他们30公里的江夏区大花山方舱医院，何冲的日薪就相对多些。
And in the Jiangxia area 30 kilometers away from the big Huashan cabin hospital, He Chong's daily salary is relatively more.
他的工资是280元/12工时，“外岗12小时280，内岗6小时380”。
His salary is 280 yuan / 12 working hours, "off-duty for 12 hours 280 hours, off-duty for 6 hours 380."
他现在工作满一个月，不过暂时只拿到15天的钱，其余的还不知道什么时候下发。
He is now working for a month, but is only getting 15 days for the time being, and the rest is still unknown when.
“其实刚开始我以为志愿者是无偿的，招我的人说可以开志愿者证明和健康证明，对以后入党和办理离汉通行证有好处。
In fact, at first I thought the volunteers were free, and the people who recruited me said they could open up volunteer certificates and health certificates, which would be good for joining the Party and getting the Departure Pass.
”何冲是滞留在武汉的外地学生，当初因为管吃住来的方舱。
He Chong, an alien student stranded in Wuhan, had come to live and eat because of the cabin.
他入职时没有体检，也没有经过任何培训。
He entered the service without a medical examination or any training.
关舱后，公司给他做了核酸检测和CT，“原本也说不给安排隔离，但不知什么原因，后来又允许我们继续住在酒店里”。
After closing the hatch, the company gave him a nucleic acid test and CT, "also said not to arrange isolation, but for some reason, we were allowed to continue living in the hotel.
3月12日，何冲所在安保公司统一开了个会。
On 12 March, Ho Chong had a meeting with his security company.
主管领导给了他们三个方案：一是就在酒店隔离；二是继续去工作，每天两百；三是公司去交涉把他们送回社区。
The supervisor gave them three plans: first, to stay in the hotel; second, to continue to work, 200 per day; and third, to negotiate their return to the community.
后来，方案又变成了只有一个：他们都必须在酒店隔离。
Then there was only one solution: they all had to be isolated in the hotel.
不过何冲好奇，他们住的是双人标间，平时还要去酒店前台领餐食，这符不符合集中隔离的规定。
He wondered, however, that they live in a double standard room and usually go to the front desk to collect meals, which does not meet the requirements of centralized segregation.
而王杰等人仍在反复拨打12345等求助电话。
Wang Jie and others are still repeatedly called 12345 waiting for help.
12日傍晚时分，他们终于等到了一个还算不错的消息。
It was evening on the 12th, and they had at last received a fair piece of news.
公司下发通知，“对进过舱和在污染区工作过的人员，休舱后集中开展CT和抗体检测，如果抗体阳性，加查核酸检测，同时全部实施集中隔离14天……在清洁区（室外）工作的人员，集中进行CT和抗体检测，如抗体阳性，加查核酸检测，如结果正常，可正常休息或自行安排”。
The company issued a notice, "after the cabin and work in the contaminated area, after the shutdown, focus on CT and antibody testing, if antibody positive, plus nucleic acid testing, while all personnel working in the cleaning area (outdoors) focus on CT and antibody testing, such as antibody-positive, DNA testing, normal rest or self-organization if the results are normal.
“进过舱这类情况，应该有12个人，清洁区这类应该是已经走掉的人了。
There should have been 12 people in the hatch, and the cleanup area was supposed to be someone who had already gone.
”蓝潜自认为他属于前面的情况，因为他需要进舱而且和确诊患者有过近距离接触。
Blues thought he belonged to the front because he needed to go in and have close contact with the confirmed patient.
不过他表示担忧，那些已经离开的人并没有进行体检，会不会给社区带来风险。
However, he expressed concern that those who had left did not undergo a medical examination, which could pose a risk to the community.
王杰也有疑问，他觉得按通知的意思，只有检查呈阳性才被安排集中隔离。
Wang Jie also has doubts, he felt that according to the notice, only the positive test is arranged to be concentrated isolation.
“先前有案例，检查没有问题，但回家后把老婆孩子都感染了。
"There were previous cases where there was no problem with the tests, but when I got home I infected my wife and kids.
”因为病毒有潜伏期，所以他很担心，他称要对家人负责。
He was worried because the virus had a latency period and said he was responsible for his family.
王杰说他会继续上报，争取外边隔离完后再回家。
Wang said he would continue to report for quarantine before returning home.
补助与回应此前3月10日，《生命时报》接到汉阳体校方舱医院志愿者的求助电话，旋即，“休舱后志愿者未隔离就遭驱赶”在微博上形成热门话题。
On March 10, the newspaper received a call for help from volunteers at Hanyang Sports School's Fang She Hospital. Soon after the break, volunteers were expelled without segregation became a hot topic on Weibo.
3月11日晚，《人民日报》发表评论文章称，别让志愿者隔离不得、有家难回……别让热心者寒心，别让世道人心受到挑战。
On the night of March 11, the People's Daily said in a commentary that volunteers should not be isolated, have no home back... do not let enthusiasts chill, do not let the world be challenged.
3月12日15时40分，武汉市汉阳区委宣传部官微@知音汉阳发布正式回应表示：武汉体育运动学校方舱医院运行期间，未招募过志愿者参与安保、保洁等服务工作；体校方舱通过购买第三方服务的方式，委托武汉华盾保安服务有限公司提供安保服务，因用工紧张，华盾公司以“有偿志愿者”的名义，通过QQ群、微信群等方式招聘安保人员，并按照每人每天270-300元的标准发放劳务报酬，该批安保人员并非志愿者；体校方舱要求华盾公司对进入方舱内工作且出舱未满14天的2名保安人员，进行隔离观察，对其他参与方舱医院外围安保工作的人员，因其在空旷没有密闭的空间环境工作，并且采取了有效的防护措施，不属于需要隔离观察的对象；针对部分安保人员因各种原因无法回所在社区的问题，已督促华盾公司本着人性化原则，为他们提供了关怀和食宿保障……据王杰介绍，各个区所委托的第三方安保公司并不相同，像何冲所在的志愿者团队与他们就不属于同一家安保公司，也不是上述华盾公司。
According to Wang, no volunteers were recruited during the operation of the Fangdao Hospital of Wuhan Sports School to provide security services to the two security personnel who were working in the open and unsealed space environment and took effective protective measures.
武汉共有16家方舱医院。
Wuhan has a total of 16 cabin hospitals.
不过，从另外一个在执勤人员发来的招募信息看，类似这样的志愿者不只在方舱，还在收纳疑似人群的隔离点等地。
However, according to another recruitment message from a staff member on duty, similar volunteers are not only in the cabins, but also in quarantined areas where suspected crowds are accommodated.
3月13日，武汉12345热线回复“商业人物”称，已要求王杰等所属安保公司安排体检与隔离。
On March 13, Wuhan 12345 hotline response to "business people," said Wang Jie and other security companies have been asked to arrange medical examinations and isolation.
如有人遇到类似情况，可拨打市政热线反应问题。
If someone encounters a similar situation, they can call the municipal hotline for a response.
《生命时报》的文章中提到，其他方舱医院关舱后，政府直接招募的“志愿者”会隔离14天，有的可能还需进行核酸和CT检测。
"Volunteers" recruited directly by the government will be quarantined for 14 days after other cabin hospitals are closed, and some may need nucleic acid and CT tests, the Times of Life reported.
一些代理招募的“志愿者”则直接在所住酒店隔离14天，隔离期间每天有300元的生活补贴。
Some of the "volunteers" recruited by the agents were isolated in their hotels for 14 days and received a daily subsistence allowance of 300 yuan for the period of isolation.
何冲也听说，其他地方志愿者有每天300元的隔离补贴，但他不清楚自己能不能拿到。
He also heard that volunteers in other places had a $300-a-day isolation allowance, but he was not sure he could get it.
蓝潜的疑问是，到底有没有关于300块钱的明文规定。
Blue submarine is in doubt whether there is an explicit provision for 300 yuan.
他们所在安保公司始终没提补贴这件事。
Their security company never mentioned the subsidy.
另外，劳务期间各个区的工作补助发放标准为什么不统一。
In addition, there is no uniformity in the criteria for the payment of work benefits by district during the period of service.
王杰则想着，尽快体检，然后在外隔离观察14天，回家。
Wang Jie thought, as soon as possible, and then observe 14 days of isolation outside, home.
“我们要求并不高，只是为自己负责，为家人负责，为社会负责。
"We are not demanding. We are only responsible for ourselves, for our families and for society.
”王杰说。
"said Wang Jie.
（蓝潜、王杰、何冲为化名）*头图为央视新闻视频截图推荐阅读严正声明：“商业人物”所有原创文章，转载均须获授权。
(Blue submarine, Wang Jie, He Chong for alias) * The head picture for CCTV news video screenshot recommended read solemn statement: "Business figures" all original articles, reprint must be authorized.
一切形式非法转载，包括但不限于盗转、未获“商业人物”授权通过第三方转载行为，均属侵权行为，“商业人物”将公布“黑名单”并追究法律责任。
All forms of illegal reproduction, including, but not limited to, theft and unauthorized reprinting by a third party without the authorization of a "business person," who will publish the "blacklist" and will be held liable.
“商业人物”只愿与尊重知识产权的机构合作。
"Business people" are willing to cooperate only with institutions that respect intellectual property rights.
投稿、约访、合作，联系邮箱：bizleaders@qq.com添加微信biz-leader，获转载授权或邀您加入商友群微信名：商业人物微信ID：biz-leaders1.长按右侧二维码即可关注。
Subscriptions, interviews, collaborations, contact mailboxes: bizleaders @ qq.com, get permission to reprint, or invite you to join the microphone group of business people: micro-ID: biz-leaders1. Click on the two-dimensional code on the right.
2.期待您置顶与星标。
2. Expect you to place your top and star.
欢迎分享与评论，欢迎通过留言或私信方式给我们提供选题线索。
Welcome to share and comment, welcome to leave a message or private letter to us to provide clues to the topic.
3.点击“阅读原文”，看商业人物官网，获取更多精彩内容。
3. Click on "Read the original text" to see the official website of business people, to get more wonderful content.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
没体检、没隔离、没有名分的方舱志愿者。
No medical check-up, no isolation, no point in the cabin volunteers.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "商业人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
var msg_title = "没体检、没隔离、没有名分的方舱志愿者";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; without medical examination, isolation, or title.
var msg_desc = "还有些遗留问题等待处理。
var msg _ desc = & quot; some questions remain to be dealt with.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '那场致1亿人死亡的流感刚发生时，美国政府与媒体在做什么？',。
What did the United States Government and the media do at the start of that flu that killed 100 million people?
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: 'NBA球队老板的烦恼：旗下三艘邮轮爆发新冠疫情',。
At the hands of its owner: At least three of its cruise ships have AT & amp; apos; s service.
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '《感恩的心》这首歌是怎么创作出来的？',。
How did & nbsp; & nbsp; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="商业人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
