全国人在吃年夜饭 ，他们在建“武汉小汤山”。
Nationwide people are eating Chinese New Year's Eve meal, they are building "Wuhan Xiaotangshan."
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
Play本文约2008字预计阅读时间6分钟中青报·中青网武汉前方报道组全中国人在享用年夜饭的时候，武汉版“小汤山医院”的工地上，“场平”工作已接近完成。
Wuhan Edition of "Xiaotangshan Hospital" on the construction site was nearing completion when the whole Chinese people were enjoying the Lunar New Year dinner.
中国青年报·中国青年网记者在施工现场看到，上百台挖掘机同时在开动，负责运输砂石的土方车排起长龙。
China Youth Daily China Youth Net reporters at the construction site saw that hundreds of excavators at the same time in operation, responsible for the transport of sand and gravel in the long queue.
新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎爆发以来，武汉市政府为加强对患者的救治，参照北京市2003年抗击非典型肺炎期间“小汤山医院”模式，建设一所专门医院。
Since the outbreak of pneumonia on the new coronavirus infection, the Wuhan government has made reference to the "Xiaotangshan Hospital" model during the 2003 battle against SARS to build a special hospital to strengthen the treatment of the patients.
从1月23日施工开始，这座医院计划在7天内建成，2月3日投入使用。
Construction began on 23 January, and the hospital is scheduled to be completed in seven days and become operational on 3 February.
除夕仍在加紧施工的工人们站在路边，端着盒饭当年夜饭。
Workers still working hard on New Year's Eve stood by the roadside, carrying boxes of rice for the New Year's Eve meal.
他们对记者说：“饭很香。
They said to the reporter, "Dinner is delicious.
”“保证完成任务。
"To see to it that it is accomplished.
”承建单位之一中建三局工作人员表示，他们将“不计报酬，不计成本，按时交工”。
Staff at CCB, one of the contractors, said they would be "reckless, cost-free and on time."
新建的这所医院原址是武汉蔡甸知音湖武汉职工疗养院，建筑面积2.5万平方米，可容纳1000张病床，采用活动板房形式。
The site of the new hospital is Wuhan Caidian Zhiyin Lake Wuhan staff sanatorium, with a floor area of 25,000 square meters, can accommodate 1,000 beds, in the form of movable slab rooms.
2003年，北京市为有效控制“非典”疫情，7天建成了可容纳1000张病床的小汤山医院，收治了全国七分之一的“非典”病人，1383名医护人员没有发生一例感染。
In 2003, to effectively control the SARS epidemic, a 1,000-bed Xiaotangshan Hospital was built in Beijing in seven days, treating one in seven SARS patients.
今天，武汉下着小雨，工人们大都一声不响地埋头苦干，只能听到“隆隆”的挖掘机和推土机的声音。
Today, when it rains in Wuhan, most of the workers quietly toil, only to hear the "rumble" of excavators and bulldozers.
工地遍地泥泞，部分区域刚刚铺上碎石。
The site was muddy and parts of the site had just been covered with gravel.
按照惯例，施工遇上阴雨天气将停工。
In accordance with established practice, construction will be suspended in rainy weather.
现场工作人员向记者表示，阴雨天气对施工有影响，但工期还在预期之内。
On-site staff told reporters that rainy weather has an impact on the construction, but the schedule is still expected.
在疫情紧急的情况下，只能“当不下雨”，把影响降到最低。
In an emergency, the impact can only be minimized "when it does not rain."
记者在现场粗略统计，今天同时施工的挖土机有上百台。
Reporters in the scene rough statistics, today's simultaneous construction of hundreds of excavators.
一名工作人员介绍，目前参与第一阶段施工的工人约有300人，未来将增加到1500人-2000人。
According to a staff member, about 300 workers are currently involved in the first phase of construction, and the number will increase to 1,500-2,000 in the future.
这些工人中，很多人是前一晚接到通知，连夜赶往现场，有的今日清晨赶到后立即开工。
Many of these workers had been notified the night before that they had rushed to the scene overnight, and some had arrived early this morning to start work immediately.
其中一位工人说：“非常累，非常苦，但来了就要做好。
One of the workmen said, "Very tired, very hard, but when you come, do it well.
”中建三局一名工作人员告诉记者，调集大型作业机器比招人难度更大。
A staff member from CCB told reporters that it was more difficult to assemble a large operations machine.
昨天晚上，该公司加班到很晚，才调齐施工第一阶段所需机器。
The company worked late last night to complete the first phase of the construction.
据现场管理人员介绍，施工主要分为几个阶段，首先是场平，预计今夜完工。
According to the site management, the construction is divided into several stages, the first is the field level, expected to be completed tonight.
之后要埋管以解决排水排污问题，同时打地梁，预计一天完工。
After that, the pipe is to be buried to solve drainage problems, while the beams are drilled, expected to be completed in a day.
然后对地面进行硬化，就可以搭建活动板房了。
Then to harden the ground, you can build a mobile board room.
为了确保项目顺利完成，武汉市城建局成立了建设指挥部。
To ensure the successful completion of the project, Wuhan City URA has established a construction command.
项目由中信建筑设计院设计，中建三局、武汉建工、武汉市政、汉阳市政4家单位承建。
The project is designed by CITIC Architectural Design Institute, and 4 units of Zhongjian Construction Bureau, Wuhan Construction Industry, Wuhan Municipal Government and Hanyang Municipal Government are under construction.
专家介绍，该项目是为了解决现有医疗资源不足、进一步加大患者救治力度的需要，“非建不可”。
Experts said the project is to solve the existing medical resources, further increase the need for treatment of patients, "must be built."
因为是活动板房，不仅建设速度快，而且花钱也不多，很实用。
Because it is mobile board room, not only construction speed, but also spend little money, very practical.
临时医院建成后，可使用3至5年。
Once the temporary hospital is completed, it can be used for three to five years.
中建三局工作人员表示，作为承建方之一，将全力以赴，攻坚克难，坚持质量第一、安全为先，在保安全、保质量的基础上，确保项目进度，高质量完成建设任务。
The staff of CCB III indicated that, as one of the parties to be undertaken, it was committed to overcoming difficulties, upholding quality first and ensuring safety and quality, and ensuring the progress of the project and high-quality completion of the construction task.
为了满足远程指挥的需求，这家临时医院还将开通5G移动通信网络。
The temporary hospital will also operate a 5G mobile communications network to meet the needs of remote command.
中国移动湖北公司武汉分公司工作人员接到武汉市要求紧急开通5G网络的通知后，连夜完成了建设方案和设计，并调集了全部通信工程物资。
Wuhan branch of China Mobile Hubei Company received notification from Wuhan City to urgently open the 5G network, completed the construction programme and design overnight and mobilized all communication engineering materials.
在5G建设的同时，还将原有4G网络的容量提升3倍以上，满足抗击新型肺炎、集中收治的需求，预计3天内完成5G信号架设及基础通信设施建设工作。
At the same time as the 5G construction, the capacity of the existing 4G network will be increased more than threefold to meet the demand of fighting new pneumonia and centralized treatment, and the construction of 5G signal and basic communication facilities is expected to be completed in three days.
春节假期，部分工人返乡，为调集施工人员带来困难。
During the Spring Festival, some workers return home, making it difficult to mobilize construction workers.
武汉建工副总经理李芊此前对媒体表示，正在尽最大努力调动更多人员参与施工。
Wuhan Construction Industry Deputy General Manager Li Qian earlier said to the media that the utmost efforts are being made to mobilize more personnel to participate in the construction.
中建三局基础设施公司相关负责人则介绍，该公司在武汉的部分项目春节期间照常施工，500多名工人可随时抽调到这里。
The director of the China Construction and Construction Bureau's infrastructure company said the company works as usual during the Spring Festival period for some of its projects in Wuhan, where more than 500 workers can be transferred at any time.
一则紧急招募安装活动板房工人的信息今天在社交网站流传。
An emergency call for workers to install mobile homes circulated on social networking sites today.
中建三局工作人员表示，现阶段的工作主要是机器作业，不需要太多人力，暂时不缺人力，感谢大家的关心。
The staff of China Construction Bureau said that the work at this stage is mainly machine work, do not need too much manpower, temporary no shortage of manpower, thank you for your concern.
不同工作阶段由不同的公司承包，后面即使有缺口，也会通过官方渠道发布。
The different stages of work are contracted out by different companies, and even when there are gaps, they are published through official channels.
今天，施工现场收到一份“春节礼物”：一名热心人士送来自费购买的1万个口罩。
Today, the construction site received a "Spring Festival gift": an enthusiastic person sent a self-funded purchase of 10,000 masks.
多名施工人员表示，他们不是本地人，但由于武汉“封城”，回不了家，觉得在家休息不如来干点活儿。
A number of construction workers said they were not local, but since Wuhan "closed the city", could not go home, feel better at home rest to do some work.
对于疫情，他们觉得“有点怕”，但“大家都戴口罩，应该问题不大”。
For the outbreak, they felt "a little afraid," but "everyone wearing masks, should not be a big problem."
一名工人说，从上午8点到达施工现场，已经连续作业了10小时，中间只是吃午饭休息了一会儿。
One worker said he had been working for 10 hours since he arrived at the site at 8 a.m. and had just had a lunch break.
至于什么时候换班，要工作到什么时候，他表示“还没有通知”。
He said he had "not yet been informed" when the shift would take place and when he would work.
记者了解到，由于工人相对紧缺，目前还没有轮班制度，有的人从清晨6点就投入了工作。
Reporters learned that because of the relative shortage of workers, there is no shift system, some people from 6 a.m. into the work.
一名测量工来自江西九江，如果不是这次肺炎疫情，他将回到老家，在2月1日（正月初八）举办婚礼，亲朋好友的时间都约好了。
If it hadn't been for the pneumonia, a surveyor from Jiujiang, Jiangxi, would have returned to his hometown and hosted the wedding on February 1 (the eighth day of the first month).
1月23日清晨，他正准备通过武汉回家时，收到了武汉“封城”的消息。
Early in the morning of January 23, he was ready to go home through Wuhan, received the news of Wuhan "closed city."
“直到现在，我还是很想回家。
"Until now, I wanted to go home.
”他说，“我不想改变婚礼的时间，打算今天明天的活儿做完了就想办法回家。
"I don't want to change the time of the wedding," he said.
”1月23日晚，他接到了招工电话。
"On the night of January 23, he got a call for work.
他想的是闲着“不如来挣点钱”。
He thought of doing nothing but earn some money.
当他告诉家人后，未婚妻打来很多电话，关心他有没有防护措施。
When he told his family, his fiancee called a lot and asked if he had any protection.
“现在只觉得很累。
"" I'm just tired now.
”在轰隆隆的工地上，他对中国青年报·中国青年网记者说，“希望武汉早日恢复平静，我能早点回去结婚。
At the roaring construction site, he told China Youth Daily's China Youth Net, "I hope Wuhan will restore calm soon and I can get back to get married early.
”（中国青年报客户端武汉1月24日电）中国青年报·中青在线出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
"(China Youth Daily Client Wuhan January 24) China Youth Daily Zhongqing online products micro-mail editor Chen Yi male thinks good-looking please click here.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
全国人在吃年夜饭 ，他们在建“武汉小汤山”。
Nationwide people are eating Chinese New Year's Eve meal, they are building "Wuhan Xiaotangshan."
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "全国人在吃年夜饭 ，他们在建“武汉小汤山”";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "“保证完成任务。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "Assured to complete the job.
”";。
";;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
