“假口罩”何时休？。
When does "fake mask" leave?
蒋政。
Jiang Zheng.
中国经营报                      。
China Business News.
中国经营报。
China Business News.
与中国企业同步成长，对话商业领袖，传播商业理想，服务商业人群，《中国经营报》掌控中国商界绝对话语权。
Growing in step with Chinese companies, dialogue with business leaders, spreading business ideals, serving the business community, The China Business Administration controls the absolute voice of the Chinese business community.
。
.
本报记者 蒋政 北京报道小雅这几天总能收到每日优鲜的提醒推送：N95口罩到货了。
Our correspondent Jiang Zheng Beijing reports that Xiaoya has been receiving daily good reminders these days: N95 masks have arrived.
不仅仅是每日优鲜，市面上越来越多的购物平台开始售卖口罩，它正在逐渐从商家的缺货商品中消失。
More than just everyday products, a growing number of shopping platforms are selling masks, which are gradually disappearing from stores that are out of stock.
随着口罩供应的日渐充足，那些曾在市场上流通的问题口罩也将很快无处遁形。
As the supply of masks becomes more plentiful, so will the problem masks that once circulated in the market.
截至2月29日，中国口罩日产能达1.1亿只，日产量达1.16亿只，分别是2月1日的5.2倍、12倍，口罩供需矛盾得到进一步缓解。
By February 29, China had 110 million masks a day, with 116 million daily operations, 5.2 times and 12 times the number on February 1, respectively.
与此同时，各地也在陆续破获多起制售假冒伪劣的口罩案件，据《中国经营报》记者不完全统计，几乎所有交易方式都是通过微信等非正规渠道进行，从制到销，口罩多次转手难以溯源时有发生，导致生产资质、合格证明等无从查验。
At the same time, many cases of fake and inferior masks are being uncovered all over the world. According to the China Business Administration, almost all trading methods are conducted through informal channels such as micromail.
与此同时，在后续的维权工作中，还面临着取证难等问题。
At the same time, in the follow-up of the work of safeguarding human rights, there are difficulties in obtaining certification.
暴利驱动下的“假口罩”公益人士冯梦堂（化名）所在的城市，已经开通网上预约口罩业务。
FengMengtang (alias), a pro bono pro bono mask driven by windfall profits, has set up an online mask booking business.
通过政府投放，只要在网络上预约成功，凭身份证即可到指定药店领取。
Through the Government, as long as the appointment on the network to make a successful appointment, the ID card can be collected at designated pharmacies.
只是，直至目前，他还未成功预约到过。
Only, up to now, he hasn't made an appointment.
在此之前，他曾多次对接口罩供给端，甚至联系海外资源，帮助地方医院以及相关组织购买口罩等防护资源，只是效果不佳。
Prior to that, he had repeatedly docked the supply side of the mask, and even contacted overseas sources to help local hospitals and related organizations buy protective resources such as masks, to no avail.
“一方面，大多数防护物资由政府统一调配。
"On the one hand, most protective materials are centrally deployed by the government.
当时直接从厂家协调，几乎不可能。
It was almost impossible to coordinate directly with the manufacturers.
另一方面，能够供货的人，手续并不全。
On the other hand, the supply of people, the procedures are not complete.
又不敢贸然匹配。
I'm afraid to match.
”冯梦堂说。
"said Feng Mengtang.
按照规定，医用口罩是二类医疗器械，经营企业、使用单位购进医疗器械，应该查验供货者的资质，医疗器械的合格证明文件，建立进货查验记录制度。
According to regulations, medical masks are second-class medical equipment.When management enterprises and user units purchase medical instruments, they should check the qualifications of suppliers, certify the qualifications of medical instruments and establish a system of record-keeping on purchase.
只是，当下供需失衡严重，通过微信等渠道购买口罩，几乎很难遵循这一制度。
However, the current imbalance between supply and demand, through channels such as micro-letters to buy masks, it is almost difficult to follow the system.
郑州市铁路公安处民警崔永强（化名）对此感触颇深。
Zhengzhou Railway Public Security Bureau of the Police Cui Yongqiang (alias) deeply felt this.
在2月5日至2月24日期间，他查处了一起假口罩制销案件，最终缴获假冒“飘安”牌医用口罩32万余只。
Between February 5 and February 24, he dealt with a case involving the manufacture and sale of fake masks, which resulted in the seizure of more than 320,000 counterfeit medical masks.
他告诉记者，在消费者通过微信从上家购买前，上述假口罩已经转手4至5次。
He told reporters that the mask had changed hands four to five times before consumers bought it from home by micromail.
“河南一位消费者为单位购买口罩，通过微信从山东张某处购得；山东张某从做百货生意的山东路某处购得；山东路某从当地多个乡镇的小贩处购得；上述多个小贩是从山东临沂市某商贸城购得；上述商贸城销售者从河南长垣的陈某、谢某等人处购得。
"A consumer in Henan buys masks for his unit by micromail from somewhere in Shandong Province; Zhang Mou in Shandong Province from somewhere in Shandong Province; a vendor from a local township in Linyi City in Shandong Province; and a vendor from Chen Mou and Xie in Changyuan, Henan Province.
其中，河南谢某自己生产假口罩；河南陈某又从当地李某处购得。
Among them, Henan Xie oneself produces false mask; Henan Chen Mou buys again from local Li somewhere.
李某为制造厂家。
Li Mou is a manufacturer.
”河南省长垣市是我国著名的卫材小镇，多位知情人士透露，飘安集团是长垣县第一批生产防护用品的企业，已有近30年的发展历史，后因经营等多方面的问题提出破产重整申请。
A number of people familiar with the matter said that the company was one of the first manufacturers of protective goods in Changyuanyuan County, with a history of nearly 30 years.
但在此次抗疫过程中，该公司在春节前夕第一时间即召回工人恢复生产。
But in the course of the epidemic, the company immediately before the Spring Festival recalled workers to resume production.
该公司曾多次就外部出现的假飘安发布消息。
The company has repeatedly issued information about the appearance of false security outside.
公司总经理范向阳3月9日告诉记者，公司已经把产品的相关信息汇总并呈交上级相关部门，由相关部门统一处理。
Company general manager Fan Xiangyang told reporters March 9, the company has been the product of the relevant information and submitted to higher-level relevant departments, unified processing by the relevant departments.
只是，巨大的经济利益依旧驱动着很多投机者。
But huge economic benefits still drive many speculators.
记者在多个防疫物资对接的微信群中看到，仍有很多人频繁发布提供口罩的信息。
Reporters in a number of cordon of epidemic prevention materials to see that there are still many people frequently issued information about the supply of masks.
从简短的描述中，很难判断上述物资的源头。
From the brief description, it is difficult to judge the source of the above-mentioned materials.
并且，一次性医用口罩单价甚至一度升至五六元。
And the unit price of disposable medical masks even rose to five or six yuan.
江苏省首例疫情期间“假”口罩案判决。
The first case of "fake" masks in Jiangsu province was decided.
据参与此案调查的射阳县警方相关负责人向记者透露，当地贸易商辛某从上线以1角钱一只的价格进货，转手以5~7角的价格卖给当地多家药店，后销售至消费者手中价格为1元一只。
According to the case involved in the investigation of the Sheyang County Police related officials told reporters, local traders Xinmou from the line to a dime a price, selling to a number of local pharmacies at 5-7 cents price, and then sold to consumers at a price of one yuan.
其中利润可见一斑。
Profits are visible in this.
“一个口罩成本也就是几分钱，大量批发是六七角钱。
"A mask costs a few cents. A lot of wholesale is sixty-seven cents.
但有些产品流到最终市场上，已经是上百倍的利润了。
But some products end up in the final market, which is already a hundred times more profitable.
”崔永强对记者说道。
"Cui Yongqiang told reporters.
打击、维权两难“厂房是临时的铁皮房，没有任何消毒措施，机器上还有很多污渍。
Battle and rights dilemma "The factory building is a temporary tin room, without any sterilization measures, there are many stains on the machine.
”崔永强在捣毁制假窝点时，看到了上述场景。
Cui Yongqiang saw the scene above when he broke up the fake and fake nests.
另据各地警方查处的多起制售假口罩案件透露的信息显示，制假生产地点大多隐匿在乡村一隅。
In addition, police around the investigation and handling of a number of cases of counterfeit masks revealed that the manufacturing sites are mostly hidden in the countryside.
不可否认的是，鉴于生产制造门槛偏低，这一市场的净化难度颇高。
Admittedly, given the low manufacturing threshold, this market decontamination is very difficult.
长垣市医疗器械领域的一位资深人士告诉记者，相对来讲，生产口罩的技术难度并不高，设备投资也不需要很多。
Changyuan medical equipment field of a senior person told reporters, relatively speaking, the production of surgical masks is not very difficult, equipment investment is not much.
阿里曾向全体商家发出最严“口罩令”，并宣布永久清退15家严重违规店铺。
Ali has issued the most stringent "mask order" to all businesses and announced the permanent closure of 15 seriously illegal shops.
目前，阿里已拦截、删除57万条可疑口罩链接，协助全国14个省份30个地市执法机关，侦办、查处制售假冒伪劣口罩等违法案件128起。
Ali has intercepted and removed 570,000 links to suspected masks and helped law enforcement agencies in 30 cities and provinces to detect, handle and deal with 128 cases involving fake and inferior masks.
阿里相关人士对记者表示，杭州互联网法院已正式受理此案，目前正在等待开庭。
Ali-related sources told reporters that the Hangzhou Internet Court has formally accepted the case, is currently awaiting a hearing.
多个防护用品生产基地也在加大打击力度。
Several protection production bases are also stepping up their efforts.
湖北省仙桃市对不符合条件、产品质量保证能力差的企业和小作坊一律关门停业，截至2月底已关停273家。
All enterprises and small workshops in Xiantao City, Hubei Province, which did not meet the requirements and had poor product quality assurance capacity, were closed down, with 273 closed by the end of February.
截至2月23日，该市市场监管部门没收问题口罩128万只。
As of February 23, 1,280,000 problem masks had been confiscated by the city's market regulator.
长垣市同样也在肃清相关市场。
Changyuan is also cleaning up the relevant market.
射阳县公安局上述负责人跟记者提到，他们查获的那起案件的假口罩生产地也在长垣市，但当他们前往当地溯源时，长垣市有关部门已经将这一窝点铲除。
The head of the Sheyang county public security bureau told reporters that the factory where the mask was found was also in Changyuan, but when they went there, authorities in Changyuan had removed the site.
事实上，如果没有相关部门的介入，普通消费者购得假冒伪劣产品，很难在短时间内寻求解决。
In fact, without the involvement of relevant departments, ordinary consumers buy fake and inferior products, it is difficult to find a solution in a short time.
从北京大型连锁商超物美超市购买到过期口罩的张青林（化名），维权之路也不顺畅。
Zhang Qinglin (not his real name), who bought his expired mask from a supermarket chain in Beijing, is not a smooth way to defend his rights.
她连同其他50多位受害者拉了一个微信群。
She joined more than 50 other victims in a microcosm.
直至今日，仍有很多消费者未能获得赔偿。
To this day, there are still many consumers who have not been compensated.
多位消费者反映，相关门店工作人员表示已经上报上级，但一直没有结果出来。
A number of consumers reported that the relevant store staff said they had reported to higher levels, but the results have not come out.
“我是2月14日购买，2月29日申请退货赔偿。
"I bought it on February 14 and applied for restitution on February 29.
直到今日（3月11日），还是没有消息。
Until today (March 11), there was no news.
”张青林说。
"said Zhang.
一位已经获赔的消费者对记者提到，据其了解的情况，每个门店的态度并不一样，这也跟消费者维权有一定关系。
A consumer who has been awarded compensation mentioned to reporters that, according to his understanding, the attitude of each store is not the same, which has something to do with consumer rights.
天平律师事务所闫科阳律师告诉记者，根据《消费者权益保护法》第五十五条规定，经营者提供商品或服务有欺诈行为的，除另有规定的情形外，增加赔偿的金额为三倍；增加赔偿的金额不足五百元的，为五百元。
Yan Keyang, a lawyer at Liang Law Office, told reporters that under Article 55 of the Consumer Rights and Interests Protection Law, the amount of compensation increased by three times if the operator committed fraud in providing commodities or services, and 500 yuan if the increase was less than 500 yuan, unless otherwise stipulated.
物美集团相关负责人表示并不清楚相关事宜，需了解具体情况后再作回应。
The head of Wome Group said it was not aware of the matter and would need to know the circumstances before responding.
中国法学会消费者权益保护法研究会副秘书长陈音江提醒道，在疫情防控期间，生产不符合保障人体健康的国家标准、行业标准的医用口罩、护目镜等医用器材，或者销售明知是不符合标准的医用器材，足以严重危害人体健康的，可以按照《刑法》中的生产、销售不符合标准的医用器材罪定罪处罚，最高可判处无期徒刑，并处没收个人全部财产。
Chen Yinjiang, deputy secretary-general of the China Society of Consumer Protection Law Society, warned that during epidemic prevention and control, anyone who produces medical masks, goggles and other medical devices that do not meet the national and industrial standards for protecting human health, or sells medical equipment that is known to be substandard, may be convicted and punished with life imprisonment and confiscation of all personal property.
“就算不是医用口罩，是普通的口罩或其他防护用品，只要销售额达到五万元以上，也是如此。
"Even if it's not a medical mask, it's a normal mask or other protective gear, as long as it's over $50,000 in sales.
”已有前车之鉴。
There is a precedent.
根据相关媒体在3月初的报道，北京大型连锁药店——北京京海康佰馨医药有限责任公司董事长李东等人购买了58万余只假冒3M牌口罩后出售，牟取不法利益，包括李东在内的22名涉案人员已被公安机关控制并移交朝阳检察院。
Li Dong, chairman of Beijing Jinghai-Bai Xin Medicine Co., a major chain of pharmacies in Beijing, bought more than 580,000 fake 3M masks and sold them for illegal profits, media reported in early March.
该公司在2月28日发表声明称，即日开启对购买到问题口罩顾客的赔偿，按照所购商品价值3倍给予赔偿。
The company said in a statement on Feb. 28 that it would open compensation to customers who bought the masks, paying them three times the value of the products they bought.
市场供需矛盾有望缓解口罩，普通时期消费频次并不高，但在疫情期间又属于易耗品。
Market supply and demand contradictions are expected to ease the mask, normal consumption frequency is not high, but during the epidemic is a consumable.
同时国家又将口罩等防护资源统一调配，集中优先供给医院以及疫情更加严重的地区，使得普通老百姓通过正规渠道很难购得口罩。
At the same time, the state has unified the deployment of respirators and other protective resources, focusing on hospitals and areas with more severe epidemics, making it difficult for ordinary people to buy masks through regular channels.
山东一位单体药店负责人表示，当地正常时期的一次性医用口罩是2.8元一包，十片装。
Shandong a monomer pharmacy chief said that the local normal period disposable medical masks are 2.8yuan a pack, 10 pieces.
疫情期间因道路管制，该药店进货渠道受阻。
Access to the pharmacy was hampered by road control during the outbreak.
“一方面口罩进价提高很多，另外即便定到货，也需很长时间才能拿到。
"On the one hand, the price of masks has increased a lot, and even when orders arrive, it takes a long time to get them.
”考虑到已经有药店因哄抬物价遭遇处罚，该负责人选择不再出售口罩。
The head of the department chose not to sell the masks, considering that some pharmacies had already been punished for price increases.
河南张仲景大药店相关负责人对记者提到，在春节前后，公司就突然进不到货了，连缓冲时间都没有。
Henan Zhang Zhongjing pharmacy related to the reporter mentioned that around the Spring Festival, the company suddenly did not enter the goods, even the buffer time is not.
因为当时口罩都是优先供给疫情更加严重的地区。
At the time, the masks were in priority areas where the epidemic was more severe.
直到2月底，政府投放口罩，选取了包括该公司在内的几家连锁药店进行预约销售。
Until the end of February, the government put in a mask and selected several drugstore chains, including the company, to make appointments for sale.
在冯梦堂看来，只要老百姓能够较为顺利地买到真口罩，假口罩的生存空间就小得多了。
In Feng Mengtang's view, as long as the common people can buy a real mask more smoothly, false mask survival space is much smaller.
而时至今日，口罩投放日益增加。
Today, the number of masks is increasing.
上游供应商道恩股份发布公告表示，随着疫情得到有效控制，预计聚丙烯熔喷专用料订单会逐步减少。
Upstream supplier Dawn shares issued a notice that the epidemic has been effectively controlled, it is expected that the polypropylene melt spray order will gradually reduce.
近期有多家企业新投产聚丙烯熔喷专用料，该产品市场供给逐步增加，行业存在产能过剩的风险。
Recently, many enterprises newly put into production of polypropylene spray special materials, the market supply of this product gradually increased, the industry has excess capacity risk.
据天眼查方面提供给记者的数据显示，截至2020年3月12日，我国目前口罩和呼吸防护相关企业共计38151家，2020年2月以来新增6114家，与去年同期比较，增速高达1561%。
As of March 12, 2020, China had 38,151 face masks and respiratory protection-related enterprises, an increase of 6,114 since February 2020, up 1,561 percent compared with the same period last year, according to data provided to reporters by Skyeye.
光大证券研报指出，部分纺织服装上市公司，比如比音勒芬、水星家纺、红豆股份、嘉麟杰等，均已经介入民用口罩、民用防护服等领域。
Everbright Securities Research reports that some listed textile and clothing companies, such as Beiluefin, Mercury home textile, red bean shares, JiLun Jie, have been involved in civilian masks, civilian protective clothing and other areas.
国家发改委3月2日宣布，截至2月29日，包括普通口罩、医用口罩、医用N95口罩在内，中国口罩日产能达1.1亿只，日产量达1.16亿只，分别是2月1日的5.2倍、12倍，口罩供需矛盾得到进一步缓解。
As of February 29, the National Development and Reform Commission announced that as of February 29, China's mask production capacity, including ordinary masks, medical masks, N95 masks, reached 110 million a day, with a daily output of 116 million, 5.2 times and 12 times that of February 1, respectively.
“在需求推动下，市场已经变得亢奋而且畸形，供方狂热而且强势，做信息和渠道的对接，往往很难达成采购。
"Demand-driven markets have become hyperactive and deformed, supply-side mania and power, and it is often difficult to do information and channel connections."
后期产能上来后，就不用平台对接了，都可回归到原有渠道了。
After the production capacity comes up, do not need the platform docking, can return to the original channel.
能够让假口罩消失的，只有真口罩。
The only thing that will make the mask disappear is the real one.
”冯梦堂说。
"said Feng Mengtang.
本报记者孙吉正对本文亦有贡献推荐阅读点击大图|陈春花：危机中如何自救？点击大图|去年倒闭近2万家游戏企业？版号新政下，游戏行业又该何去何从？。
By Sun Ji-hwa: How to Save Yourself in a Crises Crisis: Where did the gaming industry go last year when it closed down nearly 20,000 gaming companies?
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“假口罩”何时休？。
When does "fake mask" leave?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "中国经营报";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "“假口罩”何时休？";。
When did var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "中国经营报 chinabusinessjournal";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Chinabusinessjournal & quot;;; China Business Newspaper.
title: '陈春花：危机中如何自救？',。
Chen Chunhua: How did you help yourself in the crisis?
subject_name: '中国经营报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '去年倒闭近2万家游戏企业？版号新政下，游戏行业又该何去何从？',。
Running down nearly 20,000 gaming companies last year? Where did the gaming industry take its place under New Deal?
subject_name: '中国经营报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="中国经营报";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
