一张机票的退改真相：在线旅游平台成“背锅侠”？。
A ticket back to the truth: online travel platform into the "back pot"?
李甜。
Li Suan.
中国经营报                      。
China Business News.
中国经营报。
China Business News.
与中国企业同步成长，对话商业领袖，传播商业理想，服务商业人群，《中国经营报》掌控中国商界绝对话语权。
Growing in step with Chinese companies, dialogue with business leaders, spreading business ideals, serving the business community, The China Business Administration controls the absolute voice of the Chinese business community.
。
.
本报记者 李甜 北京报道“我们现在其实面临很大的问题，就是大家都说我们退款慢、退款难，好像都觉得这个钱被我们吃掉了。
Our correspondent Li Tian Beijing reported that "we now face a very big problem, is that we are said to refund slow, refund is difficult, it seems that we have eaten the money.
”3月12日，OTA(在线旅游)企业人士张瑾(化名)对《中国经营报》记者说道。
On March 12, Zhang Jin (not her real name), a businesswoman for OTA, told China Business News.
2020年，新冠肺炎疫情的暴发与防控，为OTA平台带来了前所未有的退改需求。
In 2020, the outbreak and control of the new crown pneumonia outbreak, OTA platform has brought unprecedented retreat needs.
主流OTA平台方出台多项退改政策，垫资甚至达到10亿元级。
The mainstream OTA platform has launched a number of retirement policies, even up to 1 billion yuan.
尽管资金承受重压，而来自用户的投诉仍是不少。
Despite the pressure on funds, complaints from users are still high.
据记者调查获悉，其实一张机票的退改，背后牵涉在线平台方、代理商、航空公司等多个利益相关方。
According to the reporter investigation learned that, in fact, the withdrawal of a ticket, behind the involvement of online platforms, agents, airlines and other stakeholders.
其中，平台方的话语权反而是其中较小的，信任建设令部分企业“头疼”。
Among them, the platform party's voice is actually smaller, the trust construction makes some enterprises "headache."
3月13日，民航从业人士林智杰对记者说，疫情对民航业带来的主要困难，一是退票量激增，服务能力跟不上，全民航一共退了2000万张机票，退款逾200亿元。
On March 13, civil aviation operator Lin Zhijie told reporters that the main difficulties caused by the epidemic for the civil aviation industry were the sharp increase in ticket refunds and the inability to keep up with service capacity.
短短2周时间退票量超过过去5年左右总和。
In just two weeks, more tickets have been refunded than in the past five years combined.
航司客服根本接不了这么多电话，部分航司也没能在几天内完成系统“疫情自动退票”功能;二是代理商和平台“没钱可退”，代理商和平台帮助旅客退票，要先垫款，可能要几天后才能收到航司的退款，所以大规模退票，有部分代理和平台机票卖不出去，手里没有那么多钱，也会导致“无钱可退”。
Some airlines and platforms have no money to return. Agents and platforms help passengers to refund tickets. They have to pay in advance and it may take several days to receive a refund from the shipping department. Some agents and platforms cannot sell their tickets.
免费退改的资金压力今年受新冠肺炎疫情影响，大量的旅客行程生变，机票退改需求激增。
Financial pressures for free retirements have been driven this year by the outbreak of pneumonia, a surge in passenger travel and a surge in demand for ticket cancellations.
1月23日，民航局发布通知，1月24日起，已购民航机票的旅客可免费退票。
On 23 January, the Civil Aviation Authority announced that passengers who had purchased airline tickets would be entitled to a free refund from 24 January.
据悉，疫情期间，飞猪退改来电峰值达到日常来电量的10倍以上。
It is reported that the epidemic period, the hog recant calls peak daily electricity more than 10 times.
“很多票其实已经在退款流程中了，只是和航空公司协调起来流程比较慢，让消费者等得比较久。
"A lot of tickets are already in the refund process, but the process of co-ordinating with the airlines is slower, keeping consumers waiting longer."
”飞猪公关人员对记者说。
"Piggy PR staff told reporters.
去哪儿网公关人士对记者说，机票退款流程是：用户发起退票、航司审核并退款给平台、再由平台退给用户。
The process of refunding a ticket is: the user initiates a refund, the airline verifies and refunds the ticket to the platform, and the platform returns it to the user, the publicist told reporters.
原本航司退款周期一般为7个工作日，特殊类型退票审核退款周期是30个工作日。
The original shipping department refund cycle is usually 7 working days, the special type of refund review cycle is 30 working days.
但在疫情之下，大部分航司的审核退款周期为30至60天。
In the case of epidemics, however, the majority of departments have a 30 to 60-day review and refund cycle.
因退票环节涉及代理商、境内外多家航司等46个判定步骤，每个订单几乎都需要人工核查。
As the refund process involves agents, a number of domestic and foreign shipping department, and other 46 decision steps, almost every order needs to be manually verified.
由于周期长，部分头部OTA企业选择先行为用户垫付。
Due to the long cycle, part of the head OTA enterprises choose to advance for users.
然而不少用户对退款速度进行投诉。
However, many users complain about the speed of the refund.
在黑猫投诉上，“为什么还不给我退票”的类似发问，在近期较为常见。
A similar question on the black cat complaint, "Why not give me a refund," has become more common in the recent past.
而据记者了解，从用户点击退票申请之后，各利益方其实都在承受较大压力。
But according to the reporter understands, from the user clicks the return ticket application, each interested party actually is under the big pressure.
张瑾向记者说，OTA企业承担了“背锅”角色。
Zhang Jin told reporters that OTA enterprises assume the role of "back pot."
当前局面是，在线平台、代理商、航司都有积压的订单。
The current situation is that online platforms, agents, shipping department have a backlog of orders.
航司现金流吃紧，回款不及时，有的暂停回款。
The shipping department cash flow is tight, the repayment does not promptly, some suspends the repayment.
“很多中小代理平台，估计都活不下去了。
"Many small and medium-sized proxy platforms are not expected to survive.
”张瑾谈到，疫情防控以来，民航局先后四次发布政策，不同航司具有各自的执行标准与反应速度，OTA平台随着航司政策调整而动。
Zhang Jin said that since the epidemic prevention and control, the Civil Aviation Administration issued four policies, different shipping departments have their own implementation standards and response speed, OTA platform with the Department of Transport policy adjustment.
仅理顺政策，便会占用一些时间。
Streamlining policies alone will take up some time.
OTA平台与航司之间，还存在部分代理商，代理商处也会积压部分订单，影响沟通时间。
OTA platform and the shipping department, there are still some agents, agents will also backlog some orders, affecting communication time.
此外，在疫情发生前，在线企业具有可批量处理退单的接口，但疫情防控以来，多变的实际情况，导致接口不完全适用，因此退单较为依赖人工复核。
In addition, before the outbreak of the epidemic, online enterprises had interfaces that could handle returns in bulk, but since the outbreak prevention and control, the changing reality has led to the interface not being fully applicable and therefore relying more on manual review of returns.
这三个原因，都使订单处理有所变慢。
All three factors have slowed down the processing of orders.
处于行业下游的OTA企业除了先自行对消费者垫资外，难有其他有力的措施使消费者满意。
OTA enterprises in the lower reaches of the industry in addition to the consumer to pay for the first time, there are no other powerful measures to make consumers satisfied.
当前，张瑾所在平台退单量最多的是国外航司机票。
At present, Zhang Jin's platform is the largest number of returned tickets is foreign airline drivers.
但民航局免费退改的政策要求，只对境内航司有效，有的旅客希望境外订单也能全额退款，但OTA企业能做的是帮助申请退款，等待境外航司反应。
However, the Civil Aviation Administration's policy of free redemption is valid only for the domestic aviation department. Some passengers want a full refund for overseas orders, but OTA companies can help to apply for a refund, waiting for the overseas department of navigation response.
这种情况下，用户便有可能产生投诉意愿。
In such cases, there is a risk that the user will be willing to complain.
平台如果继续垫付境外的退改订单，会加大生存压力。
If the platform continues to advance overseas refunds orders, will increase the pressure for survival.
“境外航司比较慢，钱回来之后，可能会回到用户，因为如果我们全垫的话，资金链可能就会出现问题。
"The offshore division is slower and the money may come back to the user because if we put everything in place, the money chain could go awry."
”张瑾说。
"said Zhang Jin.
去哪儿网公关人士则具体谈到，“事实上，不同境外航司的退改政策也不尽相同。
"In fact, the exit policies of different foreign airlines are different," said one public relations official.
有的境外航司要求必须是消费者本人致电航司申请退款;有的航司对退改做出各种限制、或者只能退代金券到消费者账户;有的境外航司担心无法接到消费者的电话，甚至屏蔽第三方平台的来电。
Some offshore companies require customers to call the department for a refund; others impose restrictions on reversion or return vouchers to consumer accounts; and some are worried about being unable to receive calls from consumers, or even blocking calls from third-party platforms.
”“以前从未出现过退票退成这个样子的情况，(以前)处理也比较简单，就几个步骤。
"There has never been a situation in which a refund has been made before, and the process has been simpler, just a few steps.
而现在政策一直在变，有的航司不一定会执行民航局的标准。
Now the policy has been changing, some shipping department will not necessarily implement the standards of the Civil Aviation Authority.
但是用户如果从我们这儿买的票，‘锅’肯定在我们这儿。
But if the user buys tickets from us, the pot must be here.
”张瑾说。
"said Zhang Jin.
尽管如此，张瑾提到，部分航司如果超时未退款，平台还是会考虑先垫付。
Despite this, Zhang Jin mentioned that some shipping department if the time-out did not refund, the platform would still consider the advance payment.
这涉及一个“服务感觉”问题，因为消费者会认为“我不管你到底原因是什么，我是在你这儿买的票。
It's a "sense of service" problem, because consumers think, "I don't care what the reason is, I bought the ticket from you.
”但退票潮下，如果全这样(先垫)的话，压力较大。
But the pressure is higher if it's all the same when it comes to refund checks.
中国民航管理干部学院教授邹建军谈到，疫情的影响广泛，造成的结果就是变化快、规则变更频繁、涉及面广，在退改方面不可避免地出现或多或少的问题。
Zou Jianjun, a professor at CAAC Management Cadre College, said that the epidemic had a wide-ranging impact, resulting in rapid change, frequent rule changes and a wide range of implications.
如果从OTA的服务属性讲，的确存在两头为难的问题，理解为“背锅侠”也不为过。
If from the OTA service attributes, there is indeed a dilemma, understanding that the "back pot" is not too much.
“而且，更为重要的是，相关政策与规则，不是OTA能够决定的，他们所能做的就是在客户与航空公司间进行努力协调与沟通，甚至有时在面对部分航空公司的苛刻政策时，OTA只能充当信息传递的职责。
"And, more importantly, OTA can't decide on policies and rules. All it can do is coordinate and communicate between customers and airlines, and sometimes OTA can only act as a messenger in the face of the harsh policies of some airlines.
所以，面对客户诉求，此时的OTA是两头为难。
Therefore, in the face of customer demands, OTA at this time is a dilemma.
”邹建军说。
"said Zou.
邹建军谈到，由于疫情影响面广、持续时间较长，各航空公司面临的困难不一，一些小型航空公司，或是原本就经营困难的航空公司，面临着最为紧张的“保现金流”的生死问题，肯定会选择延长退票回款时间。
Zou Jianjun said that due to the impact of the epidemic and the long duration of the difficulties faced by airlines, some small airlines, or those already operating difficulties, face the most urgent "cash flow protection" problems and will certainly choose to extend the refund time.
甚至是遇到宣布破产的航空公司，则可能回款无望。
Even in the case of a declared airline, there is no prospect of recovery.
大数据“杀熟”的信任难题除了因退改被投诉之外，消费者对OTA平台“杀熟”的怀疑也未消弭。
In addition to complaints about big data "kill", consumer scepticism about the OTA platform's "kill it" has not abated.
机票“杀熟”，一般被认为是用户对机票产品，下单支付时的价格，高于其浏览时的价格。
Ticket "kill ripe", is generally regarded as the user on the ticket product, the price at the time of payment, higher than the price when they browse.
也有业内人士认为，用户所判断的，平台的大数据“杀熟”表现，或也为用户在不同时段搜索同一航程信息时，发现后一次的价格高于前一次。
There are also industry insiders, the user judgement, the platform's big data "kill" performance, or for users at different times of the same voyage information, found that the latter price is higher than the previous time.
是否真的存在“杀熟”?民航从业者林智杰对记者说：“在电商领域有没有杀熟不好说，但在机票领域，至少我自己没有发现有大数据杀熟的例子。
"Is there really a" kill "?" Lin Zhijie, a civil aviation practitioner, told reporters: "It is hard to say whether there is a killing in the field of electricity business, but in the airline ticket field, at least I do not find any examples of big data killing.
”去哪儿网一位产品经理对记者说，一张机票价格由航空公司根据季节、运力、供需关系等因素统一调控。
A product manager told reporters that an airline ticket price is regulated by factors such as season, capacity and supply and demand.
价格确定后，航空公司会将运价数据录入机票舱位管理系统GDS。
When the price is determined, the airline enters the rate data into the GDS, the air ticket accommodation management system.
在国内机票领域，GDS运营商主要是中国航信(Travelsky)，国际机票领域则主要由AMADEUS、Sabre和Travelport三家公司在运营。
In the area of domestic airline tickets, GDS operators are mainly Travelsky, while in the area of international airline tickets three companies, AMADEUS, Sabre and Travelport, operate.
据记者了解，携程、飞猪、去哪儿网等第三方销售平台，必须通过GDS系统，来调取机票价格信息，并展示在网上供用户使用。
According to the reporter, Ctrip, Pig, to where the third-party sales platform, such as the network, must be through the GDS system, access to ticket prices and display online users.
而在这个过程中，航空公司还会根据市场变化，对机票价格等数据进行调整，调整后再把数据传输给GDS，这需要时间，而旅行网站向GDS调取新数据也需要时间，这前后就会产生时间差。
In this process, airlines also adjust data, such as ticket prices, according to changes in the market, before transferring data to GDS, which takes time, and the travel website takes time to retrieve new data from GDS, creating a time lag.
还有更重要的一点是，全球航空信息数据量和用户搜索量十分庞大，旅行网站等代售平台，通常隔段时间，向GDS调取一次数据，等用户下单时，还需要再通过GDS向航司核对最终数据，相互叠加的时间差，有时就会造成用户查询时的价格，与支付时通过GDS向航司核对的实时价格不一致。
More importantly, the volume of global aeronautical information data and user searches is significant, with sales platforms, such as travel websites, routinely retrieving data from GDS every other time and, when ordered by users, checking the final data against each other, sometimes resulting in user query prices that are inconsistent with the real-time prices reconciled to the Division through GDS at the time of payment.
也就是说，用户浏览时看到的价格信息，是平台对最近一次从GDS上获得信息的“缓存”。
That is, the price information that users see when they browse is the platform's "cache" of the most recent information available on GDS.
林智杰对于因为时间差造成的价格差异，持肯定意见。
Lin Zhijie for the time difference between the price caused by the positive opinion.
他表示，他也曾有过相关经历。
He said he also had relevant experience.
“其实航空公司系统也是一样，我们有时候查机票，在价格日历上看到某天有300元的特价机票，但实际点进去又没有，也是数据缓存的原因。
"The same is true of airline systems, where we sometimes check tickets and see on the price calendar that there is a special offer of 300 yuan on a certain day, but there is no actual entry and that's why the data cache is there.
因为每次有旅客查询，都刷一遍前后三个月的票价，运算量太大，查询也很慢，所以系统价格日历里的票价都是预先查询缓存的，有时候实际票价变了，但日历里的没有更新。
Because every time there is a passenger query, brush the three months before and after the fare, calculation is too large, inquiries are slow, so the system price calendar of fares are pre-query cached, sometimes the actual fares changed, but the calendar did not update.
”林智杰说。
"said Lin.
邹建军表示，这个流程从时间上讲是很短的，但无论如何缩短，都可能存在OTA与航空公司即时票价之间的差异，这取决于航空公司与OTA的信息刷新间隔，以及二者之间刷新时间是否同步的问题。
Zou said the process was short in time, but any shortening could involve differences between OTA and airline instant fares, depending on the information refresh interval between the airline and OTA and whether the refresh times between the two are synchronized.
对于大数据“杀熟”，邹建军表示，上述时间差造成的价格差是其一。
For big data "kill ripe", Zou Jianjun said the above time difference caused by the price difference is one.
理论上讲，作为一个优秀的服务商，应对客户行为习惯跟踪(主要是订票记录，包括对出行时间、舱位要求)、自动筛选后，向消费者呈现一个最优推荐结果，减少客户搜索与选择的时间。
In theory, as an excellent service provider, customers should be able to track their behaviour (mainly by booking tickets, including travel time, accommodation requirements), automatically screen and present an optimal recommended result to consumers, reducing the time required for customer search and selection.
但如果服务商对客户消费需求理解有误(如一个公、商务出行的人，突然在OTA搜索休闲出行的产品)，就可能出现所谓“杀熟”的问题。
But if the service provider misunderstands the consumer needs of its customers (as when a public, business traveller suddenly searches for products for leisure travel in OTA), a so-called "kill kill" problem can arise.
邹建军认为，一个成熟的以销售服务为主业、且对网络流量依赖较大的企业，是不会贸然采取这种自杀式行为的。
Zou Jianjun believes that a mature sales service-based business, and rely on large network traffic enterprises, will not rush to take such suicide.
但如果出现了这种问题，那么OTA平台是有责任去进行监督管理的。
But if such a problem arises, then the OTA platform is responsible for the supervision and management.
“板板正正地说，是时间差导致了‘越搜越贵’这种情况发生。
"It's the time difference that causes the more expensive the search," he says.
在任何一分一秒的差别里，大库房时时刻刻风起云涌，瞬息万变。
In any minute or two of the difference, the warehouse constantly rising and changing.
”携程官方微信文章里写道。
'Mr. Ctrip wrote in an official micro-letter.
去哪儿网平台也明确向记者否认了大数据杀熟的行为。
Go where net platform also clear to reporter denied big data kill ripe behavior.
去哪儿网公关人士对记者说，根据民航局规定，每张机票售票向航司收取的平台信息服务管理费用，只能“按每张客票定额支付”，这意味着每售出一张机票，平台赚取的钱是相对固定的。
According to Civil Aviation Administration regulations, the platform information service management fees charged to the airline department for each ticket sold can only be paid at a flat rate per ticket, which means the platform earns a relatively fixed amount for each ticket sold, a public relations official told reporters.
平台没有必要去加价销售。
Platforms need not be sold at a premium.
该公关人士表示，在线旅游行业是一个充分竞争的市场，OTA要获得一个用户的成本很高。
The public relations person said that the online travel industry is a fully competitive market, OTA to obtain a user is very costly.
获得一个新用户的平均成本高达上百元，如果为了多赚几块钱去杀熟，损失一个用户，根本划不来。
The average cost of getting a new user is a few hundred dollars, and it doesn't pay to lose a user in order to make a few extra dollars.
而一旦用户认为某平台有疑似“杀熟”的行为，他们会很快放弃这家平台。
And once users think that a platform has a suspected "kill" behavior, they will quickly abandon the platform.
OTA平台为了蝇头小利而失去一个老用户，这“不划算”。
The OTA platform loses an old user for a minuscule profit, which is "uneconomical".
“我们最后在支付前还会做最后的校验，保证价格的准确性，否则支付后到出票存在的差价只能去哪儿网承担。
"We will eventually do a final check to ensure the accuracy of the price before payment, otherwise the difference between the post-payment and the issue will have to be borne by the net."
”“大数据杀熟确实是没有的”，一位去哪儿网前员工也对记者表示，如果企业想要杀熟，得雇“黑客”来对系统进行变价，人力成本压力，也不可小视。
"There's really no big data kill," a former employee told reporters, adding that if companies want to kill, they have to hire "hackers" to sell the system.
该前员工认为，OTA平台跟淘宝类似，只是卖产品，但没有定价权，如果是像京东自营，那么有一定定价权。
The former employee believes that OTA platform is similar to Taobao, only sell products, but no pricing power, if it is like Jingdong self-employment, then a certain pricing power.
该前员工谈到一件事。
The former employee talked about one thing.
曾有一位在去哪儿网购买机票多年的用户发现，出现“变价”，寻求解释。
A user who had been buying tickets on the Internet for years found himself asking for an explanation.
客户总监等几位工作人员当面去解释此事。
Several staff members, such as the customer director, went to explain the matter.
该员工说，企业去当面解释，不仅仅是害怕流失该用户，其实会觉得对方是自己的老朋友，当被老朋友“误解”，企业也会比较难受。
The employee said the company went to face-to-face explanation, not just fear of losing the user, will actually feel like an old friend, when "misunderstood" by an old friend, the company will be more uncomfortable.
对于去哪儿网作出的“杀熟不划算的”解释，邹建军认为，从营销理论上讲是这样的。
Zou Jianjun is of the view that it is not cost-effective to kill people.
而且，随着移动智能设备的普及，信息越来越透明，消费者对OTA的忠诚度也在持续降低，OTA发展与维护用户的成本虽然并不会大幅增长，但由于流动性加大，也会间接增加客户维护成本。
Moreover, as mobile intelligence devices become more widely available, information becomes more transparent, and consumer loyalty to OTA continues to decline, the cost of OTA development and maintenance users, while not increasing significantly, will indirectly increase customer maintenance costs as a result of increased mobility.
在这种情况下，OTA的确面临着发展新用户难、留住老用户也难的问题。
In this case, OTA does face the problem of developing new users and retaining old ones.
记者注意到，OTA平台在过去几年，曾通过主动发文，甚至开发布会专门解释此事，但为什么仍然没有建立出“信任环境”?携程官方微信文章提出，造成用户不信任的原因，其一，可能是因为过去“诸侯割据天下大乱”。
Reporters have noted that the OTA platform has over the past few years devoted itself to explaining the issue through unsolicited communications and even press conferences. But why hasn't an "environment of trust" been established?
大大小小无以计数的机票分销商，网民“机票到底多少钱”心里没谱。
Large and small numerous ticket distributors, netizens "ticket after all how much money" mind spectrum.
其二，恐怕是互联网公司的各种“作”。
Second, I am afraid that the various "works" of Internet companies.
消费者觉得互联网公司有太多猫儿腻可以搞。
Consumers think Internet companies have too much to do with it.
其三：“大数据”被很多企业“灵活使用”。
Third: "big data" by many enterprises "flexible use."
例如向新用户派发大额优惠券，而老用户没有，一些运营商也会推出针对新用户的套餐，老用户没有。
For example, large coupons are given to new users, while older users do not, and some operators offer packages for new users, which older users do not.
上述前员工则认为，OTA将不同航司的票务资源进行了集中展示，或与资源被集中而形成的角色也有关。
The former employee believes that OTA will be different shipping department ticketing resources centralized display, or with the formation of the role of resources.
另外，部分消费者还是持“无商不奸”的逻辑。
In addition, some consumers still hold the "no business no rape" logic.
对于不被信任，邹建军认为，有三个问题值得关注：一是OTA成长史造成的，过去的确存在着所谓OTA赚取“机票差”的问题;二是OTA平台服务的多样性造成的，既有航司直销产品、OTA自营产品，还有第三方代理商的产品，前两者相对规范且易于管理，后者则不然;三是存在管理的“盲区”，严格意义而言，行业管理部门并没有市场管理的职责，机票与OTA的市场行为是由政府其他相关职能部门管理的。
Zou Jianjun believes that three issues are worth noting: first, OTA growth history, the so-called OTA earned "ticket poor"; secondly, the diversity of OTA platform services, both relatively standardized and manageable, and the products of third-party agents.
对于OTA如何改善形象、提升服务质量，邹建军建议：一是提高信息的透明性与沟通的及时性;二是加强对平台管理，强化对第三方的监督管理;三是着力进行政策游说，清晰OTA产品与服务的内容边界，主动对接监督管理部门接受公开、透明的管理。
How to improve the image of OTA, improve the quality of service, Zou Jianjun: First, improve the transparency of information and communication; Second, strengthen the platform management, strengthen the supervision and management of third parties; Third, focus on policy lobbying, clear OTA products and services content boundaries, and proactive management of the regulatory authorities open and transparent.
机票业务利润微薄，重在引流记者了解到，与针对于机票的售与退，均存在难被信任问题形成差异的是，机票业务在OTA 企业中，挣钱能力却有限。
Air ticket business profit is meager, mainly in the guide reporter understand, with respect to ticket sales and refunds, there are difficult to trust the difference between the business in OTA business, the ability to earn money is limited.
从2015年的提直降代开始，航司和OTA之间对机票业务的话语权就比较敏感。
From 2015 onwards, the airline and OTA between the voice of the airline business is more sensitive.
林智杰对记者说：“现在政策层面都统一了。
"The policy level is now unified," Lin told reporters.
前两年机票代理市场比较乱，各个代理和OTA平台自己定价自己卖，退改手续费也自己定，比如航司定价800元，退票手续费20%，有代理卖850元，也有代理卖750元，但退票手续费80%。
In the past two years, the airport ticket agent market is quite chaotic, each agent and OTA platform pricing their own sale, the cancellation fee also set their own, such as the Division of Shipping pricing 800 yuan, 20% refund charges, there are agents selling 850 yuan, there are agents selling 750 yuan, but refund fees 80%.
后来民航局在2016年发了通知，规范了代理价格，明确要求‘代理不得通过恶意篡改航空运输企业按规定公布的客票价格及适用条件、捆绑销售’”。
Later, the Civil Aviation Administration issued a notice in 2016, standardizing agency prices, explicitly requiring that 'agents must not knowingly tamper with the prices of passenger tickets, applicable conditions and bundled sales published by air transport enterprises'.
“对于我们平台来讲，其实并不是强势的一方，有时候强势方在于‘航司爸爸’，不在于我们。
"For our platform, in fact, is not a strong party, sometimes the strong party in the 'shipping department father', not us.
”一位OTA业内人士李桦(化名)对记者说道。
An OTA insider, Birch Lee (not her real name), told reporters.
“一张机票卖出去几块钱，我们有人力、客服、技术方面的成本，还要给中航信交钱，而且短信提醒业务也需要费用。
"We sold for a few bucks on a ticket, we had manpower, customer service, technical costs, and we had to pay for a letter to Air China, and there were costs associated with SMS alerts.
所以，我们国内机票基本上是亏钱的，要么亏一点，要么持平。
Therefore, our domestic air tickets are basically a loss of money, either a loss, or flat.
”李桦说，公司内部曾考虑给用户停发航程信息，这样以减少成本，但认为，用户已经习惯了。
Ms Li said the company had considered stopping users' flight information to cut costs, but said users were used to it.
林智杰说，2016年，民航局专门发了通知，要求客票代理费不按比例，而是按定额付，就是一张机票固定多少钱。
In 2016, Mr. Lam said, the Civil Aviation Administration issued a special notice that the agent's fare is not proportional, but a fixed amount of money, that is, a fixed ticket.
比如，平台自己作为代理卖一张国内头等舱，代理费60元，卖国内经济舱，折扣少拿得多，折扣多拿得少，大约也就是5元~25元的样子。
For example, the platform itself as an agent to sell a domestic first-class, agency fee of 60 yuan, sell domestic economy class, discount much less, discount more, about 5 yuan to 25 yuan appearance.
不过，林智杰并不认为OTA处于弱势地位，他提到，“全民航有一半的机票都是携程系卖的，这个份额是相当高的，而国内航空公司业务没有哪一家的份额能超过四分之一。
However, Mr Lam does not believe OTA is in a weak position, noting that "half of all airline tickets are sold with Ctrip, which is a significant share, and no domestic airline business can account for more than a quarter."
”据记者了解，单张机票的利润不高，但机票业务可以作为获取流量的源头，而具备价值。
Leaflet tickets are not very profitable, according to reporters, but they can be a source of traffic and have value.
去哪儿网公关亦对记者坦陈，“一般在旅游平台中，交通业务是引流业务。
Where to go to the public relations network also confessed to reporters, "in general in the tourism platform, traffic is the diversion business.
以去哪儿网为例，其以机票起家，目前机票业务是重点的引流业务部分。
Take to go where net for example, its airline ticket starts, current airline ticket business is the main diversion business part.
”“但机票它是流量，所以还是得做。
"" But the ticket is traffic, so I have to do it.
”李烨说。
"said Li Ye.
同程艺龙首席财务官范磊曾表示，“现在的OTA企业，机票板块的利润已经很低，到2017年各大航司给的佣金率降到了0.3～0.5个点，已经没有再往下缩紧的空间。
Fan Lei, chief financial officer of OTA, said: "Today's OTA companies, the profit of the section has been very low, by 2017 the major airlines to pay a commission rate of 0.3 ~ 0.5 points, there is no room for further contraction.
尤其像携程、同程艺龙等OTA企业，更多的是提供一站式平台，卖一张票只是一趟出行的开始，这期间提供的附加产品才是收入的主要来源。
In particular, OTA companies, such as Ctrip and ArtLong, offer more of a one-stop-shop platform. Selling a ticket is only the beginning of a trip, during which additional products are the main source of revenue.
2018年，我们附加产品购买率大约在30%以上，这才是交通票务这块业务主要的收入来源。
In 2018, our purchase rate of additional products is about 30% above, which is the main source of revenue for the transportation ticket business.
”“这些年，机票业务确实不如酒店业务好做，因为现在航司订票已经白热化，别人可以不挣钱，如果你要挣钱的话，你比别人贵，人们稍微比较一下就不会选择你。
"In these years the airline business is really not as easy as the hotel business because the airline is now so hot that people don't make money and if you want to make money you are more expensive than others and people won't choose you for a little comparison.
”前述去哪儿网前员工对记者说道。
The former employee told reporters where to go.
“平台很重视买机票的人，因为一旦在这里买了机票，他可能会在那里订酒店，有可能会买旅游的套餐。
"The platform values people who buy tickets because once they buy a ticket here, they may book a hotel there and possibly a package tour.
它只有这种组合式的东西，才能从这个人身上挣一点钱。
It is only this combination that makes it possible to make a little money out of this person.
”该前员工说。
"said the former employee.
邹建军提到，各家公司与平台签订的协议是不一样的。
Zou Jianjun mentioned that companies and the platform signed the agreement is not the same.
但对于大多数公司而言，尤其是国内航空公司，按照政策要求，基本上只是支付一个所谓的“技术服务费”。
But for most companies, especially domestic carriers, the policy is basically to pay a so-called "fees for technical services."
事实上，理论上讲，OTA平台卖机票的收益是很低的，只是从出行服务而言，机票服务是源头，所以大家都要扩大机票服务这流量的源头，以便能够有机会为客户提供更多的后续服务。
In fact, in theory, the benefits of OTA platforms are low, except for travel services, where the ticket service is the source, so everyone needs to expand the source of the traffic so that they can have the opportunity to provide more follow-up services to customers.
“这是在线企业普遍的价值逻辑，维护并扩大入口流量，延长服务链条，提供丰富的后续服务产品，以为客户提供便捷、实用的服务作为提高整个链条收益的基础。
"This is the universal value logic of online businesses, maintaining and expanding the flow of entry, extending the service chain and providing a wealth of follow-up products to provide convenient and practical services to customers as a basis for improving the profitability of the entire chain."
而机票服务恰好是出行消费的入口，所以上述平台的努力就不难理解了。
And the air ticket service is just the entrance to travel consumption, so the platform's efforts are not difficult to understand.
”邹建军说道。
"said Zou Jianjun.
推荐阅读点击大图|高铁轮对破垄断：车轮上的黄金生意点击大图|陈春花：危机中如何自救？。
AT Rail & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; &
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一张机票的退改真相：在线旅游平台成“背锅侠”？。
A ticket back to the truth: online travel platform into the "back pot"?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "旅游";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Tourism & quot;;
var nickname = "中国经营报";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "一张机票的退改真相：在线旅游平台成“背锅侠”？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; online travel platform.
var msg_desc = "中国经营报 chinabusinessjournal";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Chinabusinessjournal & quot;;; China Business Newspaper.
title: '高铁轮对破垄断：车轮上的黄金生意',。
Rail & amp; Rail & amp; Co. & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '中国经营报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '陈春花：危机中如何自救？',。
Chen Chunhua: How did you help yourself in the crisis?
subject_name: '中国经营报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="中国经营报";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
