武汉人扛过的那些日子。
Wuhan people carried those days.
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
制图：程璨  中青报·中青网记者 孙庆玲 朱娟娟 堵力1月25日中午，钱先生炒了几个菜，用饭盒装上，手机都没带就钻进了车里。
Cartography: Cheng Qinghong News, Zhongqing Ling Zhu Juanjuan Stuck off a few dishes at noon on January 25, Mr. Qian packed a few dishes with a lunch box, got into the car without a mobile phone.
还是那条走了多少年的老路，从武昌，过桥到汉口。
Or how many years of the old road, from Wuchang, across the bridge to Hankou.
路上少有的畅快，到了长江大桥，两侧已经摆了一个个红色的塑料隔离墩，里面灌上了水。
On the way to the Yangtze River Bridge, the two sides have been placed a red plastic isolation pier, filled with water.
“看来真要封路了！”钱先生的外甥女是武汉协和医院的心脏科大夫，90后独女，她妈在南方，孩子一个人在汉口，除了上班就是隔离。
"It seems that the road is really sealed!" Mr. Qian's niece is Wuhan Concorde Hospital cardiologist, 90 after the only daughter, her mother in the South, the children alone in Hankou, except for the isolation.
“按说不该冒这个险。
"It's not supposed to be a risk.
外甥女那个小区是父亲的房子，离协和很近，住了不少医生。
His niece is the father's house, close to Concorde, a lot of doctors live.
”63岁的钱先生脑子里飞快地盘算着。
"Mr. Chin, 63, thought quickly.
但是，微信里3张照片深深刺激着他——协和医护自己裁剪、制作口罩、防护服。
But the three photos in the microphone stimulated him - Concorde and his paramedics cut and made masks and protective clothing.
他知道，外甥女一直在用自费购买的口罩，去会诊新冠肺炎病人时用一次性手术服替代防护服。
His niece, he knows, has been buying masks at her own expense to replace protective clothing with disposable surgical suits for patients with pneumonia.
外地亲戚都在群里说，让她请假，别冒险了，咱家培养一个博士不容易。
Relatives said in the group, let her take leave of absence, do not take risks, we train a doctor is not easy.
她父母担心却鞭长莫及。
Her parents' fears were out of reach.
天大地大舅舅最大。
Great uncle is the biggest.
怎么帮孩子呢？家里也没什么专业防护设备，钱先生能做的，只有“给她送饭”。
How to help the children? There is no professional protective equipment at home, Mr. Qian can do, only "give her a meal."
“保护好自己啊！”隔着门，隔着口罩，他把饭盒放在楼道里，远远地看了一眼里面如花似玉的孩子。
"Protect oneself!" Through the door, across the mask, he put the lunch box in the corridor, a distant look at the inside of the children like jade.
回家的路上，钱先生脑子又开始激烈地过程序：扔口罩，钥匙、外衣、鞋要用酒精消毒，赶紧洗澡。
On his way home, Mr. Qian went through the procedure again with a vengeance: throw a mask, disinfect your keys, coat and shoes with alcohol, and bathe quickly.
家里再用84消毒液擦洗一遍。
Wash it with disinfectant 84 at home.
因为，武昌家里他还有93岁的老父亲——必须兼顾好！当天晚上12点，武汉宣布中心城区禁行机动车。
Because he still has a 93-year-old father at the Wuchang family--he has to strike a balance! Wuhan announced a ban on motor vehicles in the central city at 12: 00 pm.
大桥上下，江城内外，闪烁的车流不见了。
Up and down the bridge, inside and outside Jiangcheng, the flashing traffic disappeared.
900万留守的武汉人，除了几万名确诊病人，更多的，被困在家的方寸之间。
Nine million Wuhan people, in addition to tens of thousands of confirmed patients, more, trapped at home between the square inch.
2月15日，湖北省武汉市，武昌站铁路桥洞下，一名行人拖着行李通过。
A pedestrian walks through a railway bridge cavern in Wuhan, Hubei province, Feb. 15.
中青报·中青网记者李隽辉/摄　　天问　“这个病毒太狡猾了。
Zhongqing Newspaper Zhongqing net reporter Li meaningful Hui / she asked "this virus is too cunning."
”钱先生不停地感叹。
"Mr. Qian kept sighing.
武汉九省通衢，商贾云集之地，衔远山吞长江，自古楚河汉界兵家必争。
Wuhan, which has thoroughfare of nine provinces and where merchants have gathered, has swallowed the Yangtze River in its ranks.
病毒无形，那些旋转着的、不闭合的RNA，遇到人就扑过去，以摧枯拉朽之势便能毁我们生机勃勃的呼吸道。
Viruses are invisible, and whirling, unclosed RNA attacks people and destroys our vital airways with destructive force.
它诡谲而阴险，在中国这只“公鸡”的丹田处暴发，要想辐射全国，可谓得尽了地利。
It is treacherous and insidious, in China this "rooster" where the Dantian outbreak, to radiate the country, can be said to be the right place.
而暴发之时又恰恰在中国春运高峰，全国性的“乾坤大挪移”，它又抓住了天时。
When the outbreak happened in the Chinese Spring Festival precisely at the peak, the national "Qiankun big move," it seized the day.
天地人三元，能与这病毒一抗的，只有“人”这个要素了。
Heaven and earth three yuan, can fight with this virus, only "human" this element.
武汉人，是被病毒选择最深重的受害者，也同时被历史选择为抗击病毒的急先锋。
Wuhan people, is the most heavily selected victims of the virus, but also by history as a pioneer in the fight against the virus.
2020年的春节注定是张兵这辈子最灰暗的记忆。
The Spring Festival in 2020 is destined to be the darkest memory of Zhang Bing's life.
“年夜饭吃了什么？我怎么忘了？”因为那天，爸爸走了。
"What did Chinese New Year's Eve eat? How did I forget?" Because that day, father left.
后来妈妈、自己、爱人都进了医院或者方舱。
Later my mother, myself, and lover all went to the hospital or the cabin.
他想向上天示弱示好，他想进入时空隧道，让一切重来。
He wanted to show his weakness to the sky, he wanted to enter the space-time tunnel, let everything come back.
但命运没给他机会。
But fate did not give him a chance.
这个世界上，是真没有“如果”啊！张兵本想趁着寒假和春节带着父母、妻子找个海岛一起躲下武汉的湿冷。
Zhang Bing wanted to take his parents and wife to an island to hide in the wet and cold of Wuhan during winter vacation and Spring Festival.
“如果”能早点离开武汉就好了。
If only I could leave Wuhan earlier.
1月13日，78岁的父亲开始发烧，此前父亲的一位牌友也曾发烧，“那时大家都没往这方面想，直到牌友住院，被新闻报道出是新冠肺炎患者，我们才开始怀疑。
The 78-year-old father had a fever on January 13, and one of his former friends had a fever. "We didn't think about that until our friend went to the hospital and was reported as having pneumonia.
”张兵说，那时自己还每天去病房陪父亲。
Zhang Bing said he went to his father's room every day.
大年三十早上，父亲在ICU走了。
In the morning of New Year's Eve, my father left ICU.
张兵都没办法看他最后一面，“脑子蒙蒙地”去办理了殡仪馆相关手续。
Zhang Bing can not see him the last side, "brain blinded" to go to the funeral parlor related procedures.
初一就将父亲的骨灰“送上了山”。
On the first day of his father's ashes "sent to the mountains."
也是在这天，张兵收到医院的电话通知，他也确诊了。
On the same day, Zhang Bing received a telephone call from the hospital. He was also diagnosed.
同一天，他妻子、母亲也做了CT检查，显示肺部有磨玻璃影，“但没法做核酸检测，只能按照‘疑似’处理”。
On the same day, his wife and mother also had a CT scan, which showed that the lungs were stained with polished glass.
现在回想起来，张兵说，疫情初期那一个月，是许多武汉人的至暗时刻。
In retrospect, Zhang Bing said that the early months of the epidemic were the darkest hour for many Wuhan people.
武汉有一张宣传画，“98抗洪我们挺过来了，08雪灾我们挺过来了，这次武汉我们也能挺过来”。
Wuhan has a poster, "We survived the 98 flood, 08 snow we survived, this time we can survive Wuhan."
家庭破碎人飘零，不是想挺就挺得过去的。
A broken family is a broken person, not trying to make it through.
张兵一夜一夜睡不着。
Zhang Bing could not sleep all night.
伤痛、恐惧的情绪浊浪滔天，而自己只是一叶扁舟，根本无力控制方向。
Pain, fear of the emotional turbid waves, and their own is a flat boat, simply unable to control the direction.
那段时间，度日如年，眼眶也总是湿的。
At that time, life is like years, eyes are always wet.
“当时医院给开了药就在家隔离。
"The hospital then prescribed drugs and kept them at home.
”张兵记得，自己和家人在邻居眼中就像定时炸弹，他能感受到邻居的防备，“这也可以理解，我就退了邻居群，基本不出门，除了去医院检查、开药”。
"Zhang remembered himself and his family as time bombs in the eyes of his neighbors, and he could feel the precautions of his neighbors.
医院里总是“人山人海”，急诊室内挤满了输液的人，有的人自己拿着架子坐在马路边的广场上输液；急诊大厅排队检查的队伍已经排到了门外，大家也顾不上“隔1米”的要求挤在一起，有的人举着吊瓶排着队，有的人因为呼吸困难直接倒在了地上。
The hospital was always packed with people, the emergency room was packed with transfusionists, some people were sitting on shelves at the side of the road infusions, and queues in the emergency hall were outside the door, some queuing up with bottles and others lying on the floor with difficulty breathing.
“有那么一段时间，根本看不到希望。
For a time there was no hope at all.
”张兵当时在日记中自问，“不知道什么时候才能住上院，什么时候才能好起来？”2月15日，湖北省武汉市江岸区，武汉市中心医院南京路院区被征收为新冠肺炎定点医院后，一名医院职工把物品搬离。
"I don't know when I'll be able to live in the Upper House," Zhang asked himself in his diary on Feb. 15, after a hospital worker moved items away from the Nanjing Road Hospital, the central hospital in Wuhan, Hubei Province.
中青报·中青网见习记者 李强/摄　　自强突如其来的疫情，让整个城市都蒙了。
Zhongqing News, Zhongqing net trainee reporter Li Qiang / She Zhiqiang the sudden outbreak of the epidemic, the whole city covered.
协和、同济医院的医用物资还没有着落，社区里的物资供应和人们的情绪也都变得紧张。
Medical supplies for Concorde and Tongji hospitals have not yet arrived, and supplies and sentiment in the community have become strained.
钱先生琢磨着怎么自我调适。
Mr. Qian pondered how to adapt himself.
他很快接到了邻居的电话，“不能等了，我们自己组织吧，一个是进货，不要再挤在超市排队，空气太差；一个是自主报体温”。
He soon got a phone call from his neighbor. "We can't wait. Let's organize it ourselves. One is to get in and stop queuing up in the supermarket.
他进了邻居群。
He entered the neighborhood.
大家用接龙的办法轮流买菜、统计体温。
We take turns to buy vegetables and take temperature.
“在帮助到达之前，我们必须要先依靠自己。
"We have to depend on ourselves before we can help arrive.
”他不能给病毒钻空子的时间。
"He can't give the virus time to exploit it.
“每天起来，我们就忙着做饭吃饭和消毒，渐渐就没时间忧心了。
"Every day we get up and we're busy cooking, eating and disinfecting, and gradually we don't have time to worry.
”钱先生说，早晨起来窗户大开着通风，拿了菜回来，用酒精消毒衣服和鞋底。
"said Mr. Qian, getting up in the morning with the windows wide open, and returning with the dishes, disinfecting his clothes and soles with alcohol.
然后稀释了84消毒片墩地。
Then diluted 84 pieces of disinfectant film pier.
桌椅、洗手池、厨房设备，每天擦洗很多遍，“不停地劳动就是锻炼”。
Table, chair, sink, kitchen equipment, scrub many times every day, "non-stop work is exercise".
让他骄傲的是，他所在的小区是周围唯一一个没有确诊和疑似病例的，“很幸运，我们每一户都是那种高度自律、做事严谨的人”。
He was proud that his neighborhood was the only one around him that was undiagnosed and suspicious. "Luckily, every one of us is highly disciplined and disciplined."
“封城”之前，孟元（化名）就听到小道消息，立刻去了菜市场。
"Seal the city" before, Mencius (alias) heard the news, immediately went to the Halles market.
当时她感到了异样——买菜的人很多，前面阿姨不仅堆满了一小推车的菜，又塞满了两大塑料袋。
At the time, she felt something different - she had a large number of shoppers, with the front aunt piled not only with a small cart of vegetables, but also with two large plastic bags.
孟元回到家，把摊位上最后两棵大白菜，还有10多斤土豆、萝卜等其他易储存的蔬菜，一样一样摆在家里。
When Mencius arrived home, he placed the last two cabbages at the stall, as well as more than 10 kilos of potatoes, turnips and other easy-to-store vegetables.
爸妈下班回来，还数落她：“买这么多菜干嘛？我们初一就回老家了。
Mom and Dad came home from work and scolded her, "Why do you buy so many dishes? We went back to our hometown as soon as we were junior high.
”两天后，武汉真的封了城，很多人蜂拥去超市抢购。
Two days later, Wuhan really closed the city and many people flocked to the supermarket to buy it.
而孟元则靠着这些储备坚持了两周没出门。
Meng Yuan and rely on these reserves for two weeks did not go out.
孟元家里开始进行分餐，做好饭用公用餐具去盛，然后拿到不同的房间去吃。
Mencius family began to separate meals, cooked dinner utensils to serve, and then took to different rooms to eat.
开水煮洗完的餐具分别放在3个不同地方，有的放厨房，有的放客厅。
Boiled and washed utensils are placed in three different places, some in the kitchen and some in the living room.
大年三十吃年夜饭，3人才坐在了一起，但一顿饭下来几乎全程沉默，“没有人敢讲话，怕飞沫传播”。
New Year's Eve dinner, three people sat together, but a meal down almost complete silence, "no one dares to speak, afraid of droplets spread."
但家里的蔬菜还是告急了，在读博士孟元上得厅堂下得厨房，研究了各种线上买菜、购物的App，做出了一份买菜攻略，算准时间，抓紧下单。
But the vegetables at home or urgent, reading Dr. Mencius on the hall under the kitchen, studied a variety of online shopping, App, made a shopping strategy, calculate the right time, seize the order.
等外卖到了，约定好取菜地点，等送菜小哥走后，自己再过去取，“就像对暗号接头一样”。
Wait for take-out to sell, agreed to pick up the location of dishes, such as delivery brother left, their own over to pick up, "like a signal joint."
在整个武汉超市都充斥抢购人群之时，汉阳芳卉园小区的居民有福了。
Blessed are the residents of Hanyang Fangyuan Garden when the whole Wuhan supermarket is awash with shoppers.
因为这个小区有个能人。
Because there's a man in this neighborhood.
30岁的赵勐是“菜鸟驿站”的老板。
Zhao Mone, 30, is the owner of the rookie post station.
疫情初现，赵勐当机立断垫资买了1吨大米、1.5吨面粉、1000斤油和800斤面条等，放在驿站内。
At the beginning of the outbreak, Zhao Mengdong Mengzhao quickly bought a ton of rice, 1.5 tons of flour, 1000 jacks of oil and 800 jin of noodles, etc., on the post.
事实上，春节以来，赵勐经常不在驿站。
In fact, since the Spring Festival, Zhao Mone is often not at the post.
腊月二十九，他加入志愿者队伍，开车往返仙桃等地，为武汉的医院运送医疗物资。
On September 29th, he joined the volunteer team, driving to and from Xiantao and other places to transport medical supplies for hospitals in Wuhan.
不在驿站时，赵勐打开驿站的门，发条微信朋友圈，让居民自己下单来拿物资，再通过二维码付款。
When not at the post station, Zhao Mone opened the door of the post-station, clockwork micro-letter circle, let the residents themselves order to pick up goods, and then through two-dimensional code payment.
“付多少钱，居民自己在网上查了价格后取平均值给就行”。
"Pay how much money, dweller oneself checked the price on the net, take average to give line."
“一段时间以来，大伙儿付钱都很自觉，站里物资也分毫不差。
"For some time now, people have been paying themselves well, and the supplies are exactly the same.
”赵勐认为这个有1400多户居民的小区人素质高、人品好。
Zhao Mone believes that there are more than 1,400 residents of the community of high quality, good character.
赵勐其实就是这个小区的一个租户，但他给了每天忧心忡忡的邻居们最大的抚慰，让“正气存内”，自然，“邪不可干”。
Zhao is actually a tenant of this community, but he gave the greatest comfort to the worried neighbors every day, so that "qi saved", naturally, "evil can not do."
1月27日，没有暖气的房间彻寒。
On January 27, the unheated room was completely cold.
胡先生的微信里有人@所有武汉人：“在家隔离的武汉人今晚组织大型活动，有愿意参加的一起哈。
Wuhan people isolated at home will organize large-scale events this evening. There will be those who are willing to join us.
今天晚上8点开始，届时大家打开阳台窗户唱就可以了，不唱不散！合唱《义勇军进行曲》，唱完大喊三声‘武汉加油’！”他立刻打开了窗户，还有半个小时，“大家压抑了那么长时间了，发泄一下情绪很重要”。
He immediately opened the window and had half an hour to go, "It's very important for us to vent our emotions after a long time of repression."
才兴奋了不到10分钟，网上一位自称协和呼吸内科的医生却强烈呼吁：“请立即叫停小区开窗唱歌事件，极度危险，有传播肺炎可能！”胡先生戴好口罩伸头一望，发现很多家的窗都打开了，人脸模糊，“这楼间距大几十米呢，没问题吧？”也许是医生的话起了作用，胡先生小区唱歌的人不多，但是听到了很多人用武汉话高喊“武汉加油”。
Less than 10 minutes after the excitement, a doctor on the Internet, calling himself Concorde Respiratory Medicine, strongly called: "Please immediately stop the sub-district window singing, extremely dangerous, there is the possibility of spreading pneumonia!" Mr. Hu put on his mask, found many windows open, no problem?
自己带着儿子离窗户一米也跟着喊了一通，感觉心里舒服很多。
He took his son one meter away from the window also shouted along, feeling a lot more comfortable.
“这不是自嗨，是心理自救！”胡先生说，张飞就是“当阳桥头一声吼，喝断了桥梁水倒流”，这是振我声威。
"This is not self-Hi, is the psychological self-help!" Mr. Hu said, Zhang Fei is "when the Yangqiao roar, drink the bridge water back flow", this is my voice.
2月15日，湖北省武汉市江岸区，大雪中，一名戴着防毒面具的警察。
A police officer wearing a gas mask during heavy snow on Feb. 15 in the Jiangan district of Wuhan, Hubei province.
他刚刚将一位患者送到武汉市中心医院南京路院区。
He has just taken a patient to the Nanjing Road courtyard of Wuhan Central Hospital.
中青报·中青网见习记者李强/摄扛着2月初，抗疫最要劲儿的时候，很多老师学生校友情绪低落。
Zhongqing Newspaper Zhongqing net trainee reporter Li Qiang / She shouldered early February, when the epidemic was at its peak, many teachers and students were depressed.
武大宣传部请一群最牛大咖题词，为武汉加油。
Wu Da Propaganda Department asked a group of the most bullshit inscription, for Wuhan refueling.
情人节那天，武大官微是这些“国宝”的主场。
On Valentine's Day, Wu Dawei is the home of these national treasures.
李德仁院士、张俐娜院士、冯天瑜教授等不仅题词，还庄重地落款：于武昌、或者于武大、于珞珈。
Academician Li Deren, academician Zhang, Professor Feng Tianyu, and so on not only inscriptions, but also made solemn contributions: Yu Wuchang, or Wu Da and Yu Lhaga.
於可训老教授更是写了一首诗并亲自朗诵——我想，我该是又恋爱了/我爱上了让我/天天禁不住热泪盈眶的/这座城市。
The professor wrote a poem and read it himself I think I am in love again / I am in love with the city which makes me / cannot help crying everyday.
我爱上了让我/天天禁不住怦然心跳的/这些人民。
I'm in love with the people who make me / I can't help pounding everyday.
你要让我说/这座城市哪儿好/我让你看看/用血肉和生命垒起的战壕。
You want me to say / where the city is / I'll show you the trenches made of flesh and blood and life.
你要让我说/这些人民哪儿好/我让你听听/用离别和牺牲谱写的歌谣。
You want me to say / where the people are / I'll let you hear the ballad composed by parting and sacrifice.
我不能用我喜欢我爱/这些通俗的字眼/也不能用亲吻和拥抱/这些流行的动作/来表达我的恋情。
I can't express my love with the words I like / the popular words / the kisses and hugs / the popular gestures / gestures.
我只能对着视屏/挥动双手/隔着防护服/送一个飞吻/然后，轻轻地说/武汉，我爱！武汉是军工重镇，名校云集，多少国之栋梁聚居于此。
Wuhan is an important military-industrial town, with famous schools everywhere, where the backbone of the country resides. / Wuhan is a famous military-industrial town, where most of the world's leaders live.
他们跟武汉人民一起扛着，这城怎会倒下？2月12日，80后黎婧确诊新冠肺炎，被送进沌口方舱医院。
They were with the Wuhan people, how could the city fall? February 12, after Li Jing, confirmed new crown pneumonia, was sent to illegible mouth cabin hospital.
那几天，武汉天气阴冷，还飘起了雪，黎婧不适应，洗头洗澡上厕所都不方便。
In those days, Wuhan cold weather, also fluttering snow, Li Jing, washing her head and bathing on the toilet is not convenient.
心慌慌的，“担心女儿和父母被自己传染”。
"Fear of their daughter and parents being infected by their own."
直到第五天，“算算日子，家人应该没事。
"Until the fifth day," calculate the day, the family should be all right.
”黎婧悬着的心算落了地。
Jing Jing fell from her mind hanging over her head.
她打听到了可以洗头的地方。
She found a place to wash her hair.
洗完头走到方舱医院的小广场上，发现天放晴了，太阳出来了。
After washing his head, he went to the small square of the square hospital and found that it had cleared up and the sun had come out.
她开始观察身边为大家服务的医护人员：裹着厚厚的防护服，一些很平常的动作也“笨笨的、憨憨的”，像极了“大白”。
She began to look at the health care workers around her: wrapped in thick protective clothing, some very common action "stupid, honest and honest", like "white."
兼职插画师的她手痒痒了。
Her hands tickled as a part-time illustrator.
是的，既然躲不过，就扛吧，家住黄鹤楼旁边的黎婧有武汉人骨子里的倔强。
Yes, since you can not hide, on it, live next to the Yellow Crane Tower Li Jing, Wuhan people in the bone of stubborn.
方舱里不乏普普通通的日常，其中却滋长着生的力量，黎婧喜欢，也想记录下这些瞬间。
There were many ordinary everyday things in the cabin, but they had the power of life. Ling enjoyed them and wanted to record them.
脑子里想着那些瞬间，笔尖随着思绪在纸上滑动，那些烦躁、无聊、不安的情绪仿佛都被驯服了般，安静了下来，有时画着画着自己甚至会不自觉笑起来。
With those moments in mind, the tip of the pen slid across the page as thoughts passed, and the restlessness, boredom, and restlessness seemed to be tamed, and quieted down, sometimes with pictures of themselves even unconsciously laughing.
这对她来说，是种宣泄，也是种娱乐。
It was catharsis and entertainment for her.
平时不怎么玩抖音的她还开始琢磨着剪辑、配乐，“就是想告诉人们方舱不是‘灰色’的，这里的生活充满力量和希望”。
She also began to think about editing, music, "is to tell people that the cabin is not 'gray', life here full of power and hope."
没想到，粉丝数不断攀升，35.5万！新冠病毒没把她打倒，却把她逼成了新晋“网红”。
Unexpectedly, the number of fans continued to climb, 355,000! The new crown virus did not knock her down, but forced her into a new "net red."
有人说，喜怒忧思悲恐惊，传导几个周期后，勇敢的武汉人对病毒建立了心理免疫力。
Some people said that anger, anxiety, fear, transmission of several cycles, the brave Wuhan people to build up psychological immunity to the virus.
在方舱广阔的空间里，在音乐韵律中，打开了单元门的隔断，放开自我，“不服周”（湖北话，即不甘心不服气——记者注）成为一个群体的强势心理内核。
In the spacious space of the square cabin, in the music rhythm, opened the door of the unit, self-open, "not satisfied with the week" (Hubei words, that is, unwilling to be disobedient - reporters note) into a strong psychological core of a group.
父亲去世的阴影并没有离开张兵，他到了方舱两夜未眠。
The shadow of his father's death did not leave Zhang Bing. He stayed awake two nights in the cabin.
但他不自觉地进入了一种状态——大家朝夕相处，“床头相对”，像是提前进入共享社会，有了吃的喝的都见面就分。
But unconsciously he went into a state where people lived side by side, where the bed was opposite, like getting into a shared society ahead of time, sharing everything he ate and drank.
大家甚至会做些无厘头的事，“比如说有时你睡着睡着突然会有人拿个小零食砸你，挺幼稚的，就像回到了小时候”。
One might even do something irrelevant. "Sometimes when you fall asleep and someone drops you a snack, it's childish, like going back to being a kid."
平时觉得俗气的像是广场舞，平时觉得幼稚的比如一起吃零食，在这种集体战“疫”的时候，都成了心灵的治愈剂。
Usually feel tacky like square dance, usually feel childish such as eating snacks together, in this collective battle "plague", have become a cure for the heart.
“算是苦中作乐吧，集体生活可以充实时间，转移焦虑，还能保持好心情、提高免疫力，不是说战胜病毒，最重要的还是自己的免疫力吗？”张兵说，大家能在方舱相遇，也算是生死之交了。
"It's hard to have fun," Zhang said. "It's a life-or-death relationship if we can meet each other in the cabin.
出舱当天，张兵被转至隔离观察点，他把这里称为“方舱PLUS”，因为饭菜比方舱好吃，还能吃到热干面、喝到“莲藕排骨汤”。
On the day he left the cabin, Zhang was transferred to a secluded observation point, where he called it "PLUS" because the food was better than the cabin and he could eat hot, dry noodles and drink "lotus root chop soup."
每天，他都会在朋友圈里更新“方舱PLUS”的日常。
Every day he would update his cabin PLUS routine in his circle of friends.
闲着没事，张兵就把能洗的衣服都洗了，没事时他还喜欢自己K歌，录点小视频分享给朋友，他们已经约好等“死里逃生”，生死之交们要去找个小馆聚聚，像往常那样就着酒，谈天说地。
No matter what, Zhang Bing can wash clothes, when nothing is wrong he also like his own K song, video share with friends, they have been arranged to wait for "death escape," life and death friends to find a small house to gather, as usual on the wine, talk.
2月15日，湖北省武汉市，一名行人望向两家没有营业的商店。
February 15, Wuhan, Hubei Province, a pedestrian looked at two shops not open.
中青报·中青网记者赵迪/摄　　巷战“别以为苏德战争都是阵地战、坦克战，最惊险、反败为胜的转折点其实是巷战！”林勇（化名）在给单位8个下沉到同一街道的党员做思想工作，他用电影《斯大林格勒保卫战》激励大家，“敌暗我明，掐断感染源就要靠我们‘巷战’。
"Don't think that the Soviet-German war is all trench warfare, tank warfare, the most dangerous and counter-defeating turning point is actually a street war!" Lin Yong (alias) is giving ideological work to eight members of his unit who sank down the same street.
”林勇是武汉市属企业下属文化单位的副总，过完年就接了指令下沉到街道。
Lin Yong, vice-president of a cultural unit under Wuhan, took orders to sink into the streets after the new year.
刚开始，在家憋坏了，出门觉得是解脱。
At first, when I was at home, I felt free to go out.
9个人都穿上了一次性雨衣，眼镜外戴个面罩，里面是一次性医用口罩。
All nine wore disposable raincoats, glasses and a mask, and inside was a disposable medical mask.
全副武装的他们在阳光下合了一张影。
heavily armed They took a picture in the sun.
但第一天下来，他就不行了。
But the first day down, he couldn't.
嗓子哑了，腰疼，趴在床上不想动。
My throat is hoarse, my back hurts, I don't want to move in bed.
当时，居民根本受不了被封，要出院子。
At the time, residents simply could not bear to be boxed out of the yard.
他不断解释封闭小区的意义、挨家电话问体温，了解确诊病人家庭情况。
He kept explaining the meaning of the enclosed area, making phone calls to ask for body temperature and finding out about the families of confirmed patients.
怎么也是个“总”啊，林勇平时办公室坐惯了，哪做过这种“琐碎活”。
How is also a "total" ah, Lin Yong peacetime office sitting used to, which has done this "trivial work."
后来下雪了，街道干部累倒了，他们9个人成了主力。
Then it snowed, and the street cadres collapsed, and nine of them became the main body.
每天，他要打电话统计体温，做表格，统计确诊、疑似、治愈人数，组织运货，早7点出发晚7点回家。
Every day, he would call the body temperature, do a table, statistics on the number of confirmed, suspected, cured, organize delivery, 7 a.m. departure at 7 p.m. home.
当时，确诊病人都居家隔离，他负责传递药物和生活用品。
At the time, the confirmed patient was isolated at home and he was responsible for delivering medicines and supplies.
担心传染老母，自己每天隔离在15分钟车程以外的房子里。
Worried of infecting his mother, he isolates himself in a house 15 minutes' drive away.
开始豪言壮语的“巷战”，现在变成了“琐碎”。
Start bravado "street warfare", now become "trivial."
有一次，一个居民拨打街道热线要买药。
On one occasion, a resident called a street hotline to buy medicine.
他二话不说买回来送上楼。
He bought it and sent it upstairs without saying anything.
3天后，这人说药不管用非要退了。
Three days later, the man said he had to return the medicine if it didn't work.
他臊得脸通红，好在有口罩挡着，跟店员说退货。
He blushed blush, but with a mask over his face, he told the clerk to return the goods.
店员说，当时买药还有赠品，那就一起退。
The clerk said that when buying medicine and giving gifts, they returned it together.
因为居民不肯拿出赠品，店员就不给退。
The clerk would not return the gift because the residents would not give it.
林“总”被骂了很多难听话。
Lin "total" was scolded a lot difficult to obey.
林勇气得肝疼。
Lynn got liver pain from courage.
外地的同学劝他，你过去只有跟知识分子打交道的能力，现在你得学着跟基层百姓打交道了。
Students from other places advised him that you used to have only the ability to deal with intellectuals. Now you have to learn to deal with people at the grass-roots level.
2月8日3时37分，武汉城市防洪勘测设计院有限公司的刘佳佳半夜醒来看手机，发现单位微信群里发布了一则通知：号召党员干部下沉社区。
At 3: 37 p.m. on February 8, Liu Jiajia, of Wuhan City Flood Prevention Investigation and Design Institute Co., Ltd., woke up in the middle of the night to look at his cell phone and found a notice in his unit's micro-letter group calling on party cadres to sink their communities.
刘佳佳想了想，也报了名。
Liu Jiajia thought about it and announced her name.
他被派遣到武重社区中北路中学教师宿舍。
He was sent to Wuzhong community Zhongbei Road middle school teachers dormitory.
这是一个没有保安、没有物业的“无人值守”小区，需要有人配合管理、24小时值班。
This is an unguarded, no-man's-land area that needs someone to co-manage and work around the clock.
临时搭就的帐篷里，起初只有两张板凳，第二天，有了灯和简易床铺。
At first there were only two benches in the makeshift tent, and the next day there were lights and simple beds.
刘佳佳很快摸清了小区的住户情况：入住12户居民共24人，其中70岁以上的有7人，独居老人有3位，还有1名孕妇。
Liu Jia-jia quickly made a survey of the housing situation in her neighbourhood: 24 people living in 12 households, 7 of them over 70 years of age, 3 living alone and 1 pregnant woman.
在社区，每个志愿者都是一块砖，哪里需要哪里搬。
In the community, each volunteer is a brick and moves wherever it is needed.
70岁的胡爷爷是独居老人，糖尿病药快用完了。
Grandpa Hu, 70, lives alone and is running out of diabetes medication.
刘佳佳跑了附近3家药店，也没买到。
Jia Liu ran to three nearby pharmacies, but also did not buy them.
后来，他骑自行车花了30分钟，买回来送到老人手上。
Later, it took him 30 minutes to ride his bike and bring it back to the old man.
2月23日，在上门发爱心菜时，刘佳佳了解到，孕妇李女士预约了3月4日到医院做产检。
Feb. 23, in the home delivery of love dishes, Liu Jia Jia learned that pregnant women Li had made an appointment to the hospital on March 4 for a check-up.
3月3日，刘佳佳提前帮忙约好了社区的爱心的士司机。
On March 3, Ms Lau helped to arrange a caring taxi driver for the community in advance.
4日，刘佳佳本来是晚班，但惦记着李女士的事儿，他早晨8点20分还是来了，叫李女士下楼将她送上的士，还把随身携带的自用消毒酒精喷雾塞给她。
Miss Li arrived at 8: 20 in the morning and asked Ms. Li to go downstairs and take her to a taxi. She was also shoved in a self-disinfectant alcohol spray.
不做则已，做就要做到最好。
He who does not do is already doing the best.
刘佳佳又嘱咐保安，李女士从医院回来进小区门要做好消杀，他想了想，又回来说，“消杀过程你们要拍照给我留档”。
Liu Jiajia ordered the security guard, Ms. Lee from the hospital back into the community door to do a good kill, he thought, and then back, "you have to take pictures of the killing process for me."
由于尽心尽责，刘佳佳被推选为武重社区省直疫情防控党员志愿者突击队队员和小区组长。
Due to her diligence, Liu Jiajia was elected as a volunteer commando team member and community leader of the Wushong Community Provincial Direct Disease Prevention and Control Team.
至今，他值守的小区无人感染。
So far, no one has infected the neighborhood where he works.
到今天，林勇已在街道干了一个月零3天。
Today, Lin Yong has been working in the street for a month and three days.
他发现自己晚睡晚起的毛病改了，每天早晨上班路上心情不错，中午饭后还能坐在椅子上眯40分钟，适应了！“什么总不总的，大难来了，尽力帮更多的人一起活下来”。
He found himself in a good mood on the way to work every morning and was able to sit in a chair and squint for 40 minutes after lunchtime.
林勇又有力气在微信群里发表演说了：每个人都在适应什么是战争状态，战时和过去的和平时期是两回事。
Lin Yong has the strength to speak in the micro-letter group: everyone is adapting to what is a state of war, wartime and past peacetime is two different things.
医院大夫倒下了，就由各地医护人员补上；街道干部倒下了，就由我们补上；就像部队打残了，再重新组合发起新的冲锋。
The doctor of the hospital fell and was replaced by paramedics from every quarter; the cadre of streets fell, and we made up for it; as the army maimed, it reconstituted itself for a new charge.
这就是总体战阻击战人民战争。
This was the general war and the people's war.
胡先生从17楼看着下面的志愿者来来往往地忙碌，感叹：这次武汉共产党员的表 现让我钦佩！他们像医生一样浑身包裹着，背上却没有名字，他们干了那么多细碎的工作，我们也不知道谁是谁，但看着他们就很有安全感。
Mr. Hu watched from the 17th floor as the volunteers came and went, exclaiming: I admire the fact that the Wuhan Communists' watches are now admired! They are covered like doctors with no names on their backs, they have done so much delicate work that we don't know who they are, but it gives them a sense of security.
“武汉在渡劫，有10万在努力活下来，有10万在累死累活帮我们活下去，还有800多万人忍住一动不动，也是一种战斗。
"Wuhan is on the ferryboat, 100,000 people are struggling to survive, 100,000 people are working hard to help us live, and more than 8 million people can not stay still, it is also a battle.
”胡先生感叹。
"sighed Mr. Hu.
2月15日，湖北省武汉市武昌区，共享单车在小区门口搭起“路障”。
On February 15, Wuchang District, Wuhan City, Hubei Province, shared bicycles set up a "roadblock" in front of the neighborhood.
中青报·中青网记者李隽辉/摄　　至爱　人字的结构，就是相互支撑。
Zhongqing News, Zhongqing net reporter Li meaningful / photo beloved characters structure, is mutually supporting.
有段时间，坏消息滚滚而来，真假难辨。
There was a time when bad news was rolling in.
这种天地不仁以万物为刍狗的感觉，让人喘不过气。
This world is not benevolent to all things as a ruminant feeling, let people out of breath.
与妈妈在家朝夕相处了40多天，29岁的田甜（化名）发现，“两个人哪怕不说话，只要知道另外一个人在，就觉得安心”。
After spending more than 40 days at home with his mother, Tian Tian, 29, found, "If two people don't speak, it's reassuring to know that someone else is around.
她做视频，妈妈也积极参与，有时帮她举手机，有时建议她更换角度与光线，还有时，正在拍摄，妈妈不小心“插话”了，母女俩一度“笑场”，再重拍。
She made videos, her mother also actively participated, sometimes to help her lift the phone, sometimes advised her to change the angle and light, and sometimes, while filming, her mother accidentally "cut in", the mother and daughter "laugh" for a while, and then remake the film.
很多没被病毒打倒的武汉人也说，一二月份的自己胸闷气短。
Many Wuhan people who have not been knocked down by the virus also said that the first two months of their own chest shortness of breath.
究其原因，也许病毒密度太高，也许是恐惧带来的窒息。
Perhaps the reason is that the virus density is too high, perhaps due to fear of suffocation.
而封城这么久，如果说带来什么好处的话，恐怕就是，懂了家人的重要，发现了人情的魅力。
And the closure of the city so long, if any benefit, I am afraid that, understand the importance of family, found the charm of human.
经历了这一劫，加上篮球巨星科比突然的去世，田甜发现自己的一些观念在悄悄转变，“要勤俭节约，存一些钱，可有可无的东西以后不要买；饮食要健康规律；想做的事要赶紧做，不要拖延，因为每分每秒都很金贵。
After the debacle and the sudden death of basketball superstar Kobe Bryant, Tian found himself quietly changing his mind. "Save and save some money, don't buy anything you don't need; Eat a healthy diet; Do what you want to do without delay, because every minute is expensive.
”也许，应该听妈妈的话，谈场恋爱——田甜悄悄告诉记者。
Perhaps, should listen to mother's words, talk about a love - Tian Tian quietly told reporters.
湖北大学研二学生肖婷的爸妈离异多年，过去她都是一个月打一两次电话，“有事说事”，报喜不报忧。
Hubei University second-year students Xiao Ting's parents divorced for many years, she used to call once or twice a month, "something to tell", happy news do not worry.
这一次，从滞留在武汉的第一天起，爸妈不约而同每天给她打电话，还要求“必须视频”。
This time, from the first day of detention in Wuhan, parents of the same day to call her, but also asked "must-video."
从电话里，她知道了爸爸在家乡做巡逻防控志愿者，会提醒爸爸注意防护；第一次知道了妈妈生意里的一些事情，她也开始试着给妈妈出些主意。
From the phone, she learned that her father in his hometown patrol prevention and control volunteers, will remind his father to pay attention to the protection; the first time I learned something about my mother's business, she began to try to give her mother some advice.
经历了这次疫情，她发现，自己实际也是渴望多与爸妈交流的，“以后，可能要重新考虑与爸妈的关系了”。
After the outbreak, she found that she was actually eager to talk to her parents more, "in the future, may want to reconsider the relationship with their parents."
方历娇每天目送丈夫刘佳佳去社区服务，眼里满是担心。
Fang Lijiao saw her husband Liu Jiajia go to community service every day, his eyes filled with worry.
但她告诉记者，忽然发现了他在巨大压力下能这么细致，这么拼命，在任何状态下都对社区的老人特别照顾，“为他骄傲”。
But she told reporters, suddenly found that he can be so meticulous under great pressure, so desperate, in any state of special care for the elderly community, "proud of him.
如何奖励他呢？这些日子，方历娇厨艺大爆发，起码满足了丈夫的口福再说：土家糯米饭、干煸糍粑、土豆饼、清蒸鳕鱼、红烧对虾、猪蹄火锅……病毒弥漫在四方，看不见摸不着，而亲情人情是实实在在的，在面对不确定的时候，背后靠着的人，是安全感的源头。
How to reward him? These days, Fang Lijiao cooking skills explosion, at least to meet her husband's mouth to say: Tujia rice, dry fried Ciba, potato cake, steamed cod, red-roasted prawns, hog-hoof hotpot.
东湖高新区龙泉街高峰村支王咀湾位于武汉城郊。
East Lake District Longquan Street peak village branch wang chewable bay is located in Wuhan suburb.
50岁的农民王建平留意到，村里那些打工回来过年的，因为封城走不了。
50-year-old farmer Wang Jianping noticed that those who work in the village back to celebrate the New Year, because the closure of the city.
他们没地，菜不够吃怎么办？他一边晒着太阳，一边琢磨上了跟妻子胡正兰种的七八亩地。
What if they didn't have enough land to eat? He was sunbathing in the sun and thinking about seven or eight acres of land with his wife, Hu Zhenglan.
小白菜与菜薹长势喜人，“自己反正也吃不完”。
Brassica campestris and bolting are growing happily, "I can't finish them anyway."
没想到跟妻子两人一拍即合。
I didn't expect a pat with my wife.
正月以后，夫妻俩陆续采摘了近600斤蔬菜，分装好后，一部分送给附近缺菜的村民，一部分送至村委会转送给偏远的村民。
After the first month, the couple picked nearly 600 kilos of vegetables, which were then partially packed and given to villagers in need of food nearby, while others were sent to village committees for onward transmission to remote villagers.
每户少则三五斤，人口多的就送十多斤。
Each household is less than three or five jin, large population on the delivery of more than 10 jin.
有的人家要给钱，王建平乐了：“谈钱就远了。
Some people want to give money, Wang Jianping music: "Talk about money far away.
”这时候，菜就是战略物资，人情比天大。
"At this time, dishes are strategic goods, more human than the sky.
3月，武汉大学的早樱娇艳如故，只是寂寞开无主。
In March, the early Sakura of Wuhan University is as beautiful as ever, just lonely.
有人拍了张照片——一位穿了全身蓝色防护服的校工在艳丽怒放的樱花下匆匆走过——巨大的色彩反差，惊艳了网友。
Someone took a picture of a school worker in a full-length blue suit hurrying past the brightly colored cherry blossoms - hugely colorful, stunning netizens.
也有人从照片中看出了这场战役的大功臣——校工的状态。
Some people also see from the photos of the campaign's great contributions - the state of the school staff.
寒假里，学校还有许多留校生。
During the winter vacation, many students stay in school.
疫情开始之后，武汉高校都进行了封闭管理，学生被限制在一个个“孤岛”里，他们的安全和生活保障成了学校的头等大事，校工们也成了穿梭在“孤岛”间勇敢忙碌的“摆渡人”。
Since the outbreak began, Wuhan universities have been closed management, students have been confined to one "island", their safety and livelihood has become the top priority of the school, the school staff have become shuttle between the "island" brave busy "ferryman."
由于武大太大，在校学生寝室分散，学校想尽了办法。
Because Wu Da is too big, the student dormitory is scattered, the school tried to do everything possible.
对那些在食堂登记留校的学生，盒饭全部送餐上门，由宿舍管理员专人领取，让学生尽量不出宿舍，避免校内人员流动。
For those students registered to stay in the canteen, all the boxes of meals delivered home, by the hostel administrator to collect, so that students try not to leave the dormitory, to avoid internal mobility.
有的留校生开玩笑说，终于实现了“三餐送到床头”的梦想。
Some students joked that the dream of "three meals to bed" had finally been realized.
武大宣传部负责人告诉记者，截止到目前，除了第一临床学院一个硕士生在一线帮助医务人员被感染以外，留校的796个学生都没有被感染。
So far, 796 students remain uninfected, except for one master's degree student at the first clinic who helped infect medical staff, the university's head of publicity told reporters.
靠山武汉，确实是个神奇的地方，虽是移民城市，但在大开大阖、大旱大涝、巨热巨冷、又辣又咸的特殊环境下，顽强，成了在此生活的人的共同烙印。
The mountains, Wuhan, is indeed a magical place, although it is a city of immigrants, but in the open big helmets, floods, great heat, hot and salty special circumstances, tenacious, has become the common brand of people living here.
长江横穿而过，横渡长江是这个城市每年的节目，所以骨子里有怼天怼地的屈原之风，恨不得上九天揽月下五洋捉鳖。
The Yangtze River crosses the Yangtze River, the city's annual program, so there is a cross-wind of Qu Yuan, would like to go under the nine days to catch turtle.
正所谓，天上九头鸟，地下湖北佬。
The so-called nine birds in the sky, underground Hubei.
不仅有跳起广场舞的彪悍病人，也有“任凭风吹浪打我自岿然不动”的淡定人。
There were not only tough patients dancing in the square, but also quiet men who "let the wind blow me unmoved."
程先生是武汉通信企业的干部，住在一个4000多户的大社区，其中有十几户确诊。
Mr. Cheng is a cadre of Wuhan communication enterprises, living in a large community of more than 4000 families, among which a dozen households were diagnosed.
生死阴影笼罩之下，45天了，他没怎么下过楼。
The shadow of life and death hung over him for 45 days, and he hardly ever went downstairs.
生活越来越简单，够用就好。
Life is getting easier and easier.
但精神上对书的依赖加深了，每日制定了阅读任务，从哲学、文学、历史，到一些专业的通信技术书籍，看了十几本。
But the spiritual dependence on books has deepened, with daily reading assignments ranging from philosophy, literature and history to a dozen professional communications books.
程先生每天很忙，在房间里快步走，然后阅读，想问题。
Mr. Cheng is busy every day, trotting around the room, then reading and thinking.
武汉这些年发展很快，进入了“万亿俱乐部”，去年全国前八。
Wuhan developed rapidly in recent years, entering the "trillion club" last year, the country's top eight.
从十几年前悲叹的“中部塌陷”到今天“中部崛起”，武汉成为中部地区的领头羊，成就有目共睹。
From the "central collapse" lamented more than a decade ago to today's "rise of the central region," Wuhan has become the leader of the central region, achievements have been witnessed.
可，这一下，势头被重创。
But this time, the momentum was badly damaged.
“所以武汉今天特别需要学习辩证法。
"Wuhan therefore needs to learn dialectics in particular today.
”程先生说，百年基业、承平日久，渣滓太多，需要经历波折，涤荡一下污泥浊水。
"Mr. Cheng said that a hundred years of foundation industry, long-standing, dregs too much, need to go through ups and downs, clean up mud and water.
“也好。
"Good for you.
”两个字一出口，他眼睛就湿了，代价太大了，“生死是人世间最大的事，就像汶川地震、唐山地震带给人的，是永久的伤口。
As soon as the words were uttered, his eyes were wet and the price was too high. "Life and death is the biggest thing in the world, just as the Wenchuan earthquake and the Tangshan earthquake brought people a permanent wound.
”好在这里有“朴诚勇毅，不胜不休”的文化底蕴，所以他相信“九头鸟”们：“武汉保卫战，锻炼了武汉人，也锻炼了全国援助湖北的部队，像是给国家打了疫苗。
"Fortunately, there is" Park Cheng brave, invincible, "so he believes in the" nine birds ":" Wuhan defend the war, exercise the Wuhan people, but also exercise the national assistance to Hubei troops, such as vaccination for the country.
将来国家靠的就是这一批人！”1月28日，还在过年的日子，空军预警学院的教授闫世强已回到办公室看书了，“难得的独处与清闲”。
On January 28, just after the Chinese New Year, Yan Shiqiang, a professor at the Air Force Early Warning Academy, returned to the office to read a book.
《菜根谭》说，“每临大事有静气。
"Everything is quiet when it comes to events," he says.
静而后能安，安而后能虑，虑而后能得。
Quiet and then peace, Ann can then worry, after consideration can be obtained.
”学院虽在武汉市中，闫世强在滔天的祸事中让自己平心静气。
Though in Wuhan city, Yan Shiqiang calmed down in the midst of a terrible disaster.
他正在构思新的论文，“我们雷达兵预警系统有很多成熟的经验和做法，再加上近年我国战略预警体系的建设成果，我想结合国家应急预警体系建设这次暴露出的突出问题，开展针对性研究”。
He is working on a new paper, "We have a lot of mature experience and practices of radar early warning system, and in recent years, China's strategic warning system construction results, I would like to combine the national emergency warning system exposed the outstanding problems, to carry out targeted research."
其实，在舆论刚刚批判武汉贻误战机的时候，闫教授就参加了一个“应急圈-智库专家”群，这个群有70多人，既有北京的大学教授，也有深圳研究院的人，既有研究人工智能的专家，也有大数据方面的从业人员，既有军人，也有地方科普人士。
In fact, when public opinion has just criticized Wuhan mussel warplane, Yan Yan takes part in an "emergency circle - think tank experts" group of more than 70 people, ranging from university professors in Beijing to Shenzhen Research Institute, experts in artificial intelligence, big data practitioners, both military personnel and local popularization of science.
“只有充分自信的人才明白，改变，必须有自己的努力”，这个群规定大家不骂不喷，发言必有建设性。
"Only full self-confidence people understand that change must have their own efforts", this group of people do not scold do not blow, speech must be constructive.
“武汉的痛，不能再重复。
"Wuhan pain, can not repeat.
”他说。
'he said.
听说钱先生的外甥女是个刚工作的医生，记者问道：“韩国有医生护士罢工，日本私人诊所因不愿被传染而关门。
"There has been a strike by doctors and nurses in South Korea, and private clinics in Japan have closed down because they do not want to be infected," reporters asked.
你家孩子一个半月在重症隔离室没休息过，是不是很后悔让她学医？”钱先生摇头叹息：“孩子大了，要独立面对这个世界。
If your child has not had a rest in the intensive care unit for a month and a half, he or she is sorry that she studied medicine.
湖北的医院里，4万多医护人员，每一个医生护士后面都有一个家庭在顶着。
In Hubei hospital, more than 40, 000 medical personnel, every doctor and nurse have a family behind.
我们不能退。
We can't go back.
”何止医护，每一个快递小哥、运货司机，火神山雷神山和方舱工地的建设者，量体温的保安、志愿者，炊事员、送餐员，药店、快餐厅的售货员，还有暴露在病毒感染风险中为大家服务的警察、基层干部……他们背后，都有一个家庭在勉力支撑。
There is a family behind every courier, delivery driver, builder of Mount Rushmore and Fangkang sites, body temperature security guards, volunteers, cookers, waiters, shop assistants at pharmacies, fast food restaurants, and police and grass-roots cadres exposed to the risk of infection.
这些家庭、这些细胞组合在一起，就是怦怦跳动的大武汉，就是中国的丹田。
These families, these cells together, is the pounding big Wuhan, is China's Dantian.
前不久，世界卫生组织赴中国考察专家组外方组长布鲁斯·艾尔沃德说：“全世界真的欠了武汉人民的情，我想让武汉人民知道，世界知道你们所作的贡献，我们正在跟世界分享你们的故事，你们正在做的事情非常重要。
"The world really owes a debt to the people of Wuhan, and I want to let the Wuhan people know that the world knows what you have done, that we are sharing your stories with the world, and that what you are doing is very important," said Bruce Alvold, foreign team leader of the World Health Organization (WHO) study mission to China
”在这场举世震惊的大疫中，武汉一边抗击最残酷的病毒，一边向世界输出了自己的价值观——无与伦比的顽强。
Wuhan, which has fought the worst of the viruses while exporting its values to the world, has unparalleled tenacity in a world-shaking pandemic.
谢谢你们，900万武汉人，春天来了，花开明媚，阳光普照，是你们给中国给世界赢得了时间！中国青年报·中国青年网出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
Thank you, 9 million Wuhan people. Spring is here, the flowers are bright and the sun is shining. It is you who bought China time for the world!
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉人扛过的那些日子。
Wuhan people carried those days.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉人扛过的那些日子";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at & quot; days & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "既然躲不过，就扛吧";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; since it can't hide.
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
