三个年轻人和100万只口罩。
Three young people and a million masks.
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
派送免费口罩后，收到的感谢信。
Send a free mask after receiving a thank you letter.
本文约2197字预计阅读时间6分钟中青报·中青网武汉前方报道组“今日收到志愿者送来医疗物资捐赠：一次性医用口罩2500只。
About 2197 words The Chinese Youth Daily Wuhan Forward Reporting Group received a donation of medical supplies today: 2,500 disposable medical masks.
对捐赠人在第一时间的紧急救援表示非常真挚的感谢！”1月25日20时许，武汉绕城高速北湖收费站，一名年轻人将2500个口罩交接给工作人员，收到了一封感谢信。
"At about 2000 hours on January 25, a young man handed over 2,500 face masks to staff at the North Lake toll booth of Wuhan Huangcheng Expressway and received a thank-you note.
送口罩的叫江登临，34岁。
The mask giver, named Jiang, is 34.
没有停留，他启动汽车，消失在夜色里。
Without stopping, he started the car and disappeared into the night.
下一站，他要赶回30余公里外的仓库，继续往下一站配送爱心口罩。
At the next stop, he will return to his warehouse more than 30 kilometers away and continue to deliver love masks to the next stop.
这批口罩，一共105.35万只，由江登临、张豪、张帆自费购买。
The masks, totalling 1,053,500, were bought by Jiang, Zhang Hao and Zhang Fan at their own expense.
23日起，他们开始免费发放至武汉城区医院、社区、高校、部队、收费站，以及郊区乡镇等地。
From 23, they began to free distribution to Wuhan city hospitals, communities, universities, troops, toll stations, and suburbs and other places.
在他们带动下，超过200名志愿者，加入了爱心配送队伍。
Under their leadership, more than 200 volunteers, joined the love distribution team.
能不能做点儿什么江登临是发起人，2008年到武汉读大学，毕业后留在武汉工作，2018年和朋友创办了一家影视传媒公司。
In 2008, I went to Wuhan to study in the university. After graduation, I stayed to work in Wuhan. In 2018, I founded a film and television media company with my friends.
1月21日，腊月二十七，江登临驾车回湖南娄底老家，和家人一起过春节。
January 21, 27, Jiang boarding a car back to home Lou di Hunan Province, and family members together for the Spring Festival.
面对突发疫情，出发前，他到楼下药店买口罩，普通外科口罩已经卖光了，他买到3只N95口罩，花去90元，“有点贵”。
Faced with the outbreak, he went downstairs to the drugstore to buy masks. He sold out of them and bought three N95 masks, which cost 90 yuan, "a little expensive."
到老家后在电商平台一搜索，口罩大多已经卖空。
After arriving home in the electric business platform a search, most masks have been sold short.
武汉那么多市民，他们买不到口罩怎么办？江登临想着“能不能做点什么”。
Wuhan so many citizens, they can not buy what to do with masks? Jiang Dengying thought "can do something."
他马上给同样在武汉创业的好友张豪打电话，两人约定，一起自费买一些口罩，免费发放给武汉市民。
He immediately called Zhang Hao, a good friend who also started a business in Wuhan. They agreed to buy some masks at their own expense and distribute them to Wuhan people free of charge.
几分钟后，他们共同的朋友、武汉一家车友会会长张帆也加入进来，行动小组正式成立，取名“武汉精神”。
Minutes later, their common friend Zhang Fan, the head of a Wuhan auto-club, joined in, and the action team was formally established, named the "Wuhan Spirit."
那天上午，三人分头搜索湖北省内口罩供应商信息，最终选定了仙桃市一家生产厂家。
That morning, the three search separately Hubei province mask supplier information, finally selected a Xiantao manufacturer.
厂家得知他们是自费购买后免费发放，给出成本价，还赠送4万只。
Manufacturers know that they pay for them free of charge, give the cost price, and also give 40,000.
22日午饭后，江登临驾车从娄底出发，张豪驾车从黄冈老家出发，相约武汉见面细化配送方案。
After lunch on the 22nd, Jiang boarded a car from Lodi, Zhang Hao drive from his home in Huanggang, meet Wuhan to refine the distribution plan.
在武汉，张帆已经召集了8台爱心车辆前往仙桃运回第一批20.1万只口罩。
In Wuhan, Zhang Fan has called eight loving vehicles to the spades to return the first batch of 201,000 masks.
做公益帮忙不添乱非常时刻，做公益如何帮忙不添乱？张帆同时还是一家老牌救援队的队医，有着丰富的志愿服务、防护经验。
Do not add to the chaos of the extraordinary moment, how to do public welfare how to help do not add chaos? Zhang Fan is also an old-brand rescue team doctor, with rich experience in volunteer service, protection.
“武汉精神”行动之初，张帆即提出，所有志愿者必须全程按统一规定做好防护；志愿服务的同时，传播科学防护知识。
At the beginning of the "Wuhan Spirit" campaign, Zhang Fan said that all volunteers must do a good job of protection according to uniform regulations.
23日一早，张豪联系对接武汉市卫健部门，拿到了全市所有行政区卫健部门接收地址、电话。
Early on the 23rd, Zhang Hao contacted and docked the Wuhan Health Department and got all the district health departments of the city to receive the address, telephone.
上午10点，三人和车友会十多名志愿者开始分头配送。
At 10 a. m., the trio and a dozen volunteers began distributing separately.
下午，大家又将5万只口罩配送至了疫情相对严峻的几个小区。
Afternoon, we will be 50, 000 masks distribution to the relatively severe outbreak of several small areas.
志愿者到武昌医院派送爱心口罩。
Volunteer sent to Wuchang Hospital to send love masks.
第二批口罩，于23日晚顺利运达武汉。
The second batch of masks arrived in Wuhan on the evening of 23.
当晚，为让更多市民更便捷地领取，行动小组联系到武商量贩集团合作，市民可在武汉市内35个武商量贩门店，凭身份证每人领取两只免费口罩。
In order to make them more accessible to the public, the Action Team contacted the Wu Ying Trading Group for co-operation. Members of the public can consult vendors at 35 WUHAN City and obtain two free masks per person on identification cards.
“可以凭身份证免费领取口罩”的消息，迅速在武汉一些微信群流传。
"Can rely on ID card free of charge mask" news, quickly in Wuhan some micro-groups spread.
更多志愿者加入进来，帮助扩大宣传，参与配送。
More volunteers joined in to help spread awareness and participate in distribution.
行动小组还在江登临位于洪山区的办公地点设立了开放领取点。
The Action Team has also established open access points at its offices in the Hong Kong mountains.
当天，近百个求援电话打给江登临，有社区的、高校的，还有普通市民。
On the same day, nearly a hundred calls for help were made to Jiang, some from the community, some from universities and some from ordinary citizens.
江登临请他们带好单位证明与个人身份证前来，每人领取2到10个，单位可以稍微多领取一些。
Jiang Dengling asks them to bring a good unit certificate and personal identity card to come, each person received 2 to 10, the unit can receive a little more.
市民领取免费口罩。
Members of the public collect free masks.
爱心不断汇集能不能在汉口也设置一个开放领取点？团队里的志愿者刘新新是武汉电视台一名主持人，“汉咖”脱口秀网红，24日下午，他立即在粉丝朋友圈中发送了这一消息。
Volunteer Liu Xinxin, a TV host on Wuhan TV show Hancai, immediately sent the news to fans and friends on the afternoon of Thursday.
在汉口雪松路51号，经营餐厅的包德宏第一个站了出来。
At 51 Cedar Road in Hankou, Bao Dehong, who runs the restaurant, was the first to step out.
包德宏是成都人，原本打算回老家过春节，疫情当头，他说服老家的老人，和妻儿留在了武汉。
Bao Dehong is from Chengdu, originally intended to return home for the Spring Festival, the epidemic situation, he persuaded the old man, his wife and children to stay in Wuhan.
包德宏立即和妻子、5名留守在汉的员工，一起给餐厅消毒，腾出一张桌子，制作了写有“口罩免费领取”的简易海报，摆放在了餐厅门口。
Bodhom immediately disinfected the restaurant with his wife and five of his staff, vacating a table and creating a simple poster with the words "Free Collection of Masks" on display at the entrance to the restaurant.
下午18时，7人开始发放口罩。
At 1800 hours, seven people started distributing masks.
看到路边有行人没戴口罩，他们都会叫住对方，让来领取。
When they see pedestrians on the side of the road not wearing masks, they will call each other, let to collect.
一名老人路过，问口罩多少钱一个。
An old man walked by and asked how much the mask cost.
得知不要钱，老人连连道谢。
Knowing that there was no money, the old man thanked him.
24日，一些医院紧缺口罩的消息陆续汇聚至行动小组。
24, a number of hospitals in need of surgical masks news gathered to the action team.
当天是大年三十，21时40分，中青报·中青网记者联系上张帆时，他正在驾车前往协和医院、武汉市三医院的途中。
It was the Chinese New Year's Eve. At 21: 40, Zhongqing Pao reported Zhang Fan, he was driving to Concorde Hospital, Wuhan City Three Hospital on the way.
当天，张帆和伙伴们一共跑了全市31家医院，配送去免费口罩。
On the same day, Zhang Fan and the partners to a total of 31 hospitals throughout the city, distribution of free masks.
回到所住的汉口锦绣家园小区，第三批货已在从仙桃运回武汉的路上。
Back to their homes in Hankou brocade home area, the third shipment has been from the peach back to Wuhan on the road.
来不及吃饭，张帆试着向小区物业经理申请口罩存放地点。
Without enough time to eat Zhang canvas tried to apply to the residential property manager for the location of the mask.
物业经理没有犹豫，立即腾出一间仓房。
The property manager did not hesitate to vacate a warehouse immediately.
凌晨发完口罩后，大家一起吃“饭”。
After the morning masks were distributed, everyone ate "rice" together.
23时08分，第三批42.5万只口罩卸货完毕。
At 2308 hours, the third consignment of 425,000 masks was discharged.
张帆又和伙伴们分头连夜送往汉口医院、汉阳医院、同济医院等地。
Zhang Fan and the partners separately sent overnight to Hankou Hospital, Hanyang Hospital, Tongji Hospital and other places.
此外，他们还往武昌福星养老院、另一家月子中心分别送去1000只。
In addition, they also to Wuchang Fuxing Home for the Aged, another month sub-center sent 1000.
忙完这一切，已是凌晨1时12分，农历新年第一天。
It was 1: 12 a.m., the first day of the Chinese New Year.
而“武汉精神”的微信群里，围绕最后一批口罩如何配送，以及防护服、消毒液等其他物资事宜的商讨，持续刷屏到天亮。
The "Wuhan Spirit" micro-letter group, around how the last batch of masks distribution, as well as protective clothing, disinfectant and other material matters, continue to brush screen till dawn.
当晚，志愿者们连夜整理出了武汉各大医院紧缺的物资最新信息表。
That night, the volunteers worked out an up-to-date list of materials in Wuhan's major hospitals.
25日正月初一，配送在持续，新的志愿者们也在不断加入，爱心也在不断汇聚。
January 25, the first day of distribution in the continuous, new volunteers are also constantly joining, love is also gathering.
从网络了解他们的义举后，南京信息工程大学环境科学与工程学院6名同学，凑了516.6元，捐给了行动小组。
After learning about their donation from the Internet, six students from the School of Environmental Science and Engineering of Nanjing University of Information Engineering donated 516.6 yuan to the Action Team.
团队成员们一一致谢、并写下了备忘录。
The team members thanked each other and wrote the memo.
一位昵称“萝卜”的网友捐助了500元。
A netizen nicknamed "Radish" donated 500 yuan.
“不用客气，大家各出各力，都是为了自己的家。
"You are welcome, everyone is making his own contribution to his own family.
”刘新新也没闲着，他拍摄、收集了此次活动的一些视频，准备制作一部小型纪录片，创作一期脱口秀，为伙伴们记录下共同度过的这个特别的春节。
Liu Xinxin, who is also busy, filmed and collected videos of the event, prepared a mini-documentary and created a talk show to record the special Spring Festival with his friends.
26日凌晨，江登临和伙伴们又连夜联系消毒水等物品，准备购买后赠送给医院与市民。
In the early morning of the 26th, Jiang boarding and partners contact disinfectant and other items overnight, ready to purchase and give to hospitals and citizens.
每天忙到凌晨，他说自己也有人生新体验，“去做一件有意义的事，所有人都会来帮你。
Busy until the early hours of the morning, he said he had a new life experience, "to do a meaningful thing, everyone will help you.
”中国青年报·中青在线出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
"China Youth Daily Zhongqing online products micro-letter editor & # 45; Chen Yi male thinks good-looking please click here.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
三个年轻人和100万只口罩。
Three young people and a million masks.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "三个年轻人和100万只口罩";。
var msg _ title = & quot; three young men and a million face masks & quot;;
var msg_desc = "帮忙不添乱";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; helped not include & quot; & quot;;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
