武汉部分医院仍然“喊渴”。
Some hospitals in Wuhan are still "thirsty".
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
今天，湖北省武汉市红十字会向武汉市中心医院提供了医用外科口罩4000个、医用防护服600套；向武汉市洪山区中医医院提供了医用防护服400套，84消毒液10箱，医用口罩5箱。
Today, the Wuhan Red Cross Society in Hubei Province provided 4,000 medical surgical masks and 600 medical protective suits to Wuhan Central Hospital, 400 medical protective suits, 10 boxes of disinfectant and five boxes of medical masks to the Hongshan Chinese Medical Hospital in Wuhan.
武汉红十字会表示，接收的所有物资都将被送往一线进行疫情控制工作。
Wuhan Red Cross said that all the material received will be sent to the front line of the epidemic control work.
武汉市红十字会供图本文约1558字预计阅读时间4分钟中青报·中青网武汉前方报道组王嘉兴 雷宇近日，众多援助物资已经到达武汉，或正在路上。
Wuhan city Red Cross Red Cross supply chart estimated reading time 4 minutes Zhongqing News Wuhan forward reporting group Wang Jiaxing Lei Yu recently, a lot of aid has arrived in Wuhan, or is on the way.
然而，1月26日，中青报·中青网记者对话多名武汉市的一线医护人员，发现防护用品紧张的情况仍然普遍存在。
However, on January 26, Zhongqing News Network reporters dialogue with a number of Wuhan city's front-line medical personnel, found that the situation of protective supplies is still prevalent.
“没有N95口罩，我们只能戴两层一次性口罩”“我不吃饭，不喝水，就想省下一件防护服”“本应是一次性的护目镜被我们消毒后反复使用”……武汉市一家区级发热患者定点收治医院的医生李红（化名）说。
"Without the N95 mask, we can only wear two disposable masks." "I don't eat, I don't drink water, I want to save a protective clothing."
李红告诉记者，她本人及同事曾收到不少好心人的消息，表示可以提供物资，但医院不允许医生接受私人捐助。
Li Hong told reporters that she and her colleagues have received a lot of good people said that supplies can be provided, but the hospital does not allow doctors to accept private donations.
记者采访了该院院办，院办表示，医院目前不接受私人捐助，只接受武汉市红十字会的调度，建议私人统一捐助给红十字会。
The reporter interviewed the hospital office, the hospital said that the hospital does not accept private donations, only accept the Wuhan Red Cross movement, private unified donations to the Red Cross.
但现状是，医院的防护用品依然非常紧张。
However, the situation is that hospital protection supplies remain very tight.
据李红观察，医院缺乏基本防护用品的情况长期存在。
Li Hong observed that the lack of basic protective equipment in hospitals persisted.
她称，在疫情开始前，库存防护服不足100套，没有护目镜和面罩，也没有N95口罩。
Before the outbreak began, she said, there were fewer than 100 protective suits in stock, no goggles and masks, and no N95 masks.
甚至，李红所在的医院被征用为发热患者定点收治医院后，第一班医生护士的防护服是领导从别的科室紧急借来的。
Even after Li Hong's hospital was requisitioned as a designated hospital for fever sufferers, the first class of doctors' nurses' protective clothing was borrowed by the leadership on an emergency basis from other departments.
1月23日晚，李红曾向医院设备科提出需求，设备科紧急向医院上级请求调货。
On the evening of January 23, Li Hong made a request to the Hospital Equipment Section, which urgently requested the hospital's superior to transfer the goods.
但次日，设备科的同事告知，武汉市各医院都在求援，他们一直忙到凌晨，也只拿到少量防护用品。
But the following day, colleagues at the Equipment Section told me that hospitals in Wuhan were asking for help and that they had been busy until the early hours of the morning and had received only a small amount of protective equipment.
截至1月25日中午，工信部已向武汉调用了防护服1.4万件、医用手套11万双，并通过协调紧急采购，为武汉落实各类口罩货源300万个，落实防护服货源10万件，落实护目镜2180副。
By noon on January 25, the Ministry of Industry and Communications had transferred 14,000 protective suits and 110,000 pairs of medical gloves to Wuhan, and through coordinated emergency procurement, had supplied Wuhan with 3 million supply sources of various types of masks, implemented 100,000 protective clothing supplies and implemented 2,180 sets of goggles.
但据湖北省向工信部提供的需求清单，每日医用防护服的需求是10万件。
However, according to the list of requirements provided by Hubei Province to the Ministry of Industry and Communications, the daily requirement for medical protective clothing is 100,000 pieces.
前述知情人士称，其向武汉市负责采购的卫生管理部门了解的情况是，“向上面报的表做了不少，东西一段时间没怎么看到。
According to one person familiar with the matter, what he learned from the health authorities in charge of procurement in Wuhan was that "a lot has been done with the above-mentioned forms, and things haven't been seen for a while."
”武汉市红十字会供图一名接近武汉市红十字会的知情人士告诉记者，武汉市红十字会目前收到的捐赠物资和实际需求有偏差，“有的类型不符、标准不符，很多想要的东西没有捐到。
A person close to the Wuhan Red Cross told reporters that the city's Red Cross is receiving biased donations of materials and actual demand, "some types do not match the standards, and many of the desired items have not been donated.
”根据武汉市红十字会1月25日公告，武汉市各大定点救治医院亟需的医疗物资统计中，N95口罩、防护服等医用耗材均依然标注为“急需”。
Medical supplies such as N95 face masks and protective clothing are still labeled "urgently needed" in the statistics of medical supplies needed by major designated treatment hospitals in Wuhan, according to the Wuhan Red Cross on January 25.
也有一些一线医护人员认为，到达当地的物资都被几家部属医院拿走了，“因为他们名气大，外界认为送到他们那效果好”。
Some front-line health workers believe that supplies arriving at the site were taken away by several ministerial hospitals "because they are reputed to be of good quality."
但前述知情人士表示，据其了解的情况，大批量的就诊物资需求在武汉市的基层医院。
However, the aforementioned people said, according to its understanding of the situation, the bulk of the demand for medical supplies in Wuhan's basic hospital.
但是，武汉市的协和医院等多家部属医院同样在喊渴。
However, Wuhan's Concorde Hospital and many other subordinate hospitals are also crying out for thirst.
“每天都在担心‘下一餐断炊了’”，26日中午，某部属三甲医院一位领导告诉中青报•中青网记者，目前医院防护物资紧缺，一部分卡在机场等关口不准取，一部分物流进不来武汉。
"Every day I worry about the next meal." At noon on the 26th, a leading member of the Sanjia Hospital told Zhongqing Daily that there is a shortage of protective materials for hospitals, some of them are stuck in airports and some are not allowed to enter Wuhan.
让他觉得匪夷所思的是，昨晚一家市内企业定向捐赠的物资也在市区被截留了。
To his surprise, materials donated by a local company were stopped in the city last night.
由于物资紧缺，李红和同事曾以私人名义接受社会捐助。
Due to material shortages, Li Hong and her colleagues have received donations from the community in their personal capacity.
但社会捐助的物资大多无法满足医学防护要求，据她估计，只有30%的物资能够投入使用。
Most of the materials donated by society, however, did not meet the requirements for medical protection, and she estimated that only 30 per cent of them could be used.
武汉市红十字会供图医院间，甚至同一医院的不同科室间都出现了争私人捐助的情况。
Competition for private donations has appeared between different departments of Wuhan Red Cross Hospital and even the same hospital.
24日晚上，李红本已联系好接受一批来自好心人的物资，但等她到医院门口，发现物资已被其他科室取走，“大家都很难，也不好去要回来”。
On the evening of the 24th, Li Hongben had contacted a group of good-hearted people to receive supplies, but when she arrived at the gate of the hospital, she found that the materials had been removed by other departments, "everyone is difficult, not easy to get back."
但她理解同事“截胡”。
But she understands her co-worker "Jujube."
她说，医院内也存在资源分配不均的问题。
She said that there was also unequal distribution of resources within hospitals.
她告诉记者，院方在获得官方支持后，会优先分给院方认为重要的科室，部分也在一线、亟需防护用品的医护人员没有被照顾到。
She told reporters that after receiving official support, the hospital would give priority to those departments deemed important by the hospital, and that some of the doctors and nurses, also on the front line and in urgent need of protective equipment, had not been reached.
一位参与过非典救治的专家分析，救援初期外界的捐赠很多都是好心，但是如果需求不匹配，不仅造成浪费，对于救援通道和救援调度都会造成影响，这就需要系统化的组织统筹，有专门对外的机构统一标准，统一对外。
An expert who has been involved in SARS treatment, many of the initial donations are well-intentioned, but if the needs do not match, not only cause waste, but also the rescue channel and rescue dispatch, which requires systematic organizational integration, unified standards of specialized external agencies, unified external.
当地一位观察人士同样呼吁，救援到底还差不差，怎么科学调配，疫情中应该及时对外通报，这是应对一场疫情战中的重要组成内容，“毕竟民众对这些关键信息不知道，才真是一个孤城”。
A local observer also called for the rescue is not bad after all, how scientific deployment, the outbreak should be informed in a timely manner, this is an important component of the fight against an epidemic, "after all the people do not know these key information, is really a lonely city.
（中国青年报客户端武汉1月26日电）中国青年报·中青在线出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
China Youth Daily Client Wuhan January 26) China Youth Daily Zhongqing online products micro-mail editor Chen Yi male thinks good-looking please click here.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉部分医院仍然“喊渴”。
Some hospitals in Wuhan are still "thirsty".
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉部分医院仍然“喊渴”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "民间资助仅30%符合医用标准";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; civilian funding only 30% met & quot; & quot; with medical standards;;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
