复工的复与杂。
Return to work of complex and miscellaneous.
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
2月23日，重庆北站，农民工在站台排队等候乘坐专列赴浙江绍兴相关企业复工。
February 23, Chongqing North Station, migrant workers line up on the platform to take the train to Shaoxing, Zhejiang Province related enterprises resume work.
新华社记者 王全超/摄本文约4282字预计阅读时间11分钟作者 | 中青报·中青网记者 程盟超编辑 | 从玉华一位村干部说，过去40多天，自己的心情在坐过山车。
Xinhua News Agency Wang Quan-chao / Photo About 4282 words This is expected to take 11 minutes to read. A Zhongqing News China Youth Net reporter Cheng Leng has been at the roller coaster for more than 40 days, a village official said.
最初是高兴的。
At first they were happy.
春节前一周，外出务工者陆续开车返乡，狭窄的村道拥挤起来。
During the week before the Spring Festival, migrant workers drove home, crowding the narrow village roads.
他不自觉地笑，觉得这两年的扶贫有了成果。
He smiled unconsciously and felt that the poverty alleviation efforts of the past two years had borne fruit.
很快就笑不出了。
I couldn't laugh any more.
到腊月廿九，街道上突然没人影了，“比平时还冷清。
On the 29th of December, the street was suddenly deserted. "It was colder than usual.
”举国安静时，农村有它的“高光时刻”：地方“硬核”封村、封路确实拦住了病毒，地广人稀的农村更安全，“还是老家好”。
When the country is quiet, the countryside has its "high-light moments": local "hard core" villages, road closures do stop the virus, the sparsely populated countryside is safer, "or the home is good."
如今，花开了，春耕要开始了。
Now the flowers are blooming and the spring ploughing is about to begin.
老人们重新坐到村口晒太阳；村民追问起干部，“啥时候彻底恢复？”高兴没几天，新问题纷至沓来。
Old people sat down again to the village to bask in the sun; the villagers asked the cadres, "When will we recover completely?"
陕西的一位驻村干部动员村民去江苏南通务工，安排免费包机，全村没一人报名，人们想回原来的城市打工。
A village cadre in Shaanxi Province mobilized villagers to work in Nantong, Jiangsu Province. Free charter flights were arranged.
在云南，一位干部在深夜接到电话，来电者是他组织去浙江某县集体务工的老乡。
In Yunnan, a cadre received a phone call late at night, the caller is his organization to Zhejiang a county collective labor townsman.
到达时下着雨，一度没人来接，不少人淋湿了；后来当地告知：需求对接出了问题，暂时没岗位，只能先在宾馆待着。
Arriving in the rain, at one time no one came to pick up, many people got wet; later local told: needs docked out of the problem, temporarily no posts, can only stay in the hotel.
吉林白城的一名村支书，最近几天不敢错过一通电话。
Jilin white city a village branch book, in recent days dare not miss a telephone call.
村里80吨大蒜滞销了，他将自己的手机号发到网上，不止一次满怀期待地接起来电，对方问：能不能发10斤？1被通知要挨家挨户登门排查时，云南昭通的驻村干部孙雄和同事都还没准备好口罩。
After 80 tons of garlic sold out in the village, he posted his cell phone number on the Internet and answered with more than one expectant message, asking, Can you give me 10 catties When told to go door-to-door, neither Sun Xiong nor his colleagues in Zhaotong, Yunnan, had prepared a mask.
直到现在，孙雄一个口罩戴两三天，“基本还够用。
Until now, Sun Xiong wears a mask for two or three days, "basically enough."
”各村道路间的卡点很快设置起来。
Checkpoints between the village roads were quickly set up.
山区下了很大的雪，帐篷几天后才到位。
It was snowing heavily in the mountains and the tent was only there a few days later.
孙雄记得，有个卡点挨着民宅，大门外有个炉子。
Sun Xiong remembered that there was a checkpoint near the house and a stove outside the gate.
年纪大的干部撑不住，就蹲在人家门口蹭暖气。
Older cadres can not support, squatting in front of people's homes heating.
河北邢台的一位驻村干部回忆，他们一开始只封了主路，上面工作组来检查，说田间小道也能走人。
A village official in Xingtai, Hebei, recalled that they had initially sealed only the main road, and that the working group had come to inspect it and said that the field lanes could also be taken.
人手不足，他只能向村民讨铁丝，把路拦上。
He was short of hands and could only ask the villagers for wire and stop the road.
后来领导又来暗访，发现一些关卡没有额温枪。
Later, the leadership came to unannounced visits and found that some checkpoints do not have frontal guns.
只用水银温度计，人一多，测量不及，便有疏漏，又被“从严整改”。
Only use mercury thermometer, a lot of people, not measured, there are omissions, and was "strict rectification."
在湖北恩施，某村的第一书记丁锐已经40多天没回家了，常工作到夜里11点后。
In Hubei Enshi, the first secretary of a village Ding Rui has not returned home for more than 40 days, often working after 11 pm.
除了常规的排查、巡逻、报表、守卡，村里70多岁的老人痛风以及产妇临盆，都要照顾着送过关卡。
In addition to regular check-up, patrol, report, guard card, the village 70-plus old people gout, as well as the parturient, have to take care of the delivery of checkpoints.
村民需要的日用品，干部们每三天一次，集中去城里采买。
Once every three days, cadres gather in the cities to buy the daily necessities the villagers need.
夜里，丁锐和同事打着手电在村里巡查，看到10点后还亮灯的家庭，要敲门去问，担心聚餐和赌博。
At night, Ding Rui and his colleagues are carrying flashlights in the village, see after 10 o'clock lights of the family, to knock to ask, worried about dinner and gambling.
但过去一个月，遇到最多的是家庭矛盾。
But in the past month, the most common problems have been family conflicts.
有夫妻俩吵架，闹到双方亲友都赶来了。
There was a quarrel between the husband and wife until their friends and relatives arrived.
民警介入后发现，起因就是不能复工，车贷房贷都堆在眼前，女人嫌男人“没出息”。
After the police intervention found that the cause is not able to resume work, car loans are piling up in front of the women do not like men "worthless."
“大家都在家憋太久了。
"Everyone's been at home for too long.
”丁锐说。
'said Mr. Ding.
同样是湖北恩施，另一村的支部书记覃章伟夜里时常开车到乡道上巡逻。
It is also Hubei Enshi, the branch secretary of another village, Morgan Zhangwei, often drives to the countryside at night to patrol.
有村民执着于探亲，趁着夜色赶山路，想溜过关卡。
Some villagers cling to family visits and try to slip through the gates while driving along the mountain path at night.
夜晚的山里很黑，车灯能照到很远。
It is dark in the mountains at night and the headlights can shine far away.
有人被发现了，便下意识地滚到路边，要么往附近的田里跑。
Someone was found and unconsciously rolled over to the side of the road or ran to a nearby field.
春节以来，他自己就拦下了四五拨儿人。
Since the Spring Festival, he has stopped four or five groups of people himself.
“提心吊胆，我好累。
"Fear me, I'm tired.
”覃章伟说，他尽力了，可总担心有地方没顾及到。
Morgan said he did his best, but feared something might not be taken into account.
万一有人感染，自己就有责任。
If someone gets infected, they take responsibility for it.
孙雄拿着铁路部门反馈的“武汉返回人员名单”挨家核实时，总有村民不承认，毕竟要居家隔离14天。
When Sun Xiong checked the list of Wuhan Returnees with feedback from the railway department, the villagers would not admit it. After all, they had to be separated for 14 days.
最后的招数是“吓”：你们返回时乘坐的车上发现了疑似病例，很危险。
The last trick is to "scare": You return in a car that found a suspicious case, very dangerous.
正月十五后，孙雄所在乡镇的关卡撤掉了，老百姓可以买菜、就医。
After the fifteenth day of the first month, Sun Xiong's township checkpoints removed, common people can buy vegetables, medical treatment.
走亲访友的人也多起来。
Visits from relatives and friends have also increased.
头几日，镇里每天收到四五起报告——又有人跑到外地返乡，隔离期未满的人家串门。
For the first few days, the town received four or five reports a day - people were returning home and visiting families who had not yet been separated.
办法只有一个：也隔离14天。
There is only one option: 14 days of isolation.
只是每一户人家隔离，要搭上3个工作人员：村医，监督员，还有个送菜的，“行政资源占用了太多。
It's just that each household is isolated, with three staff members: the village doctor, the supervisor, and a food delivery officer. "The administrative resources are taking up too much.
”到了3月，工作主题开始由“严防严控”变成“复工复产”。
By March, the subject had changed from "strict precautions" to "resumption of work."
孙雄和同事们接到了新任务。
Sun Xiong and his colleagues were given new assignments.
全镇登记了大约5000名返乡劳动力，要督促4000余人最近外出务工。
The town has registered about 5,000 returning laborers, urging more than 4,000 people to migrate recently.
截至目前，孙雄所在的山区乡镇，还有大约一半务工者没有外出。
Up to now, Sun Xiong's mountain town, there are about half of the workers did not go out.
“难啊。
"It's hard.
”孙雄在电话里苦笑。
"Sun Xiong smiled bitterly over the telephone.
湖北恩施某村村干部在雪天前往村民家为其测量体温。
Village officials in Enshi Village, Hubei Province, went to the villagers' homes to take their temperature in the snow.
图片由受访者提供2江勇（化名）和几十位老乡从云南山区来到东部某县，搭乘的是两地间组织的“点对点”务工大巴。
Photo by the interviewee 2 Jiang Yong (alias) and dozens of villagers from the mountainous areas of Yunnan Province to an eastern county, using the "point-to-point" bus organized between the two places.
30多小时的车程，他只吃了两碗泡面。
More than 30 hours drive, he ate only two bowls of noodles.
但对即将到来的新生活，他一度感到期待。
But for a moment he was looking forward to a new life.
山区里流传的招工海报上，他将要进入的这家电子厂设备非常现代。
The electronics factory he is about to enter is very modern, according to job posters circulating in the mountains.
村干部发放的资料显示，保底工资5000-6500元，有空调和独立卫生间；干满3个月，还有1200元的稳岗补贴。
According to village officials, the minimum wage ranges from 5,000 to 6,500 yuan, with air-conditioning and separate bathrooms, plus 1,200 yuan in stipends for three months.
出发时，本市一位副区长亲自将他们送上车。
As they set out, a deputy mayor of the city personally escorted them to the bus.
这一切让他安心。
All this reassured him.
到达是凌晨5点多，一群人被放在住宿区门口。
The arrival took place at around 5 a.m. and a group of people were placed in front of the accommodation area.
将近3小时后，有人开车过来，自称是中介公司的。
Nearly three hours later, someone drove up and claimed to be a middleman.
江勇等人进到宿舍，心凉了半截：屋里堆满垃圾，厕所也堵了。
Jiang Yong and others into the dormitory, the heart of the half-cool: the room filled with garbage, the toilet also blocked.
他们和厂里的老员工打听，干满3个月，奖金应该是4000元。
They asked the factory's old staff that the bonus should be 4000 yuan after three months' service.
有人猜测，中介从中抽成，便不想干了。
Some people guessed that the intermediary from the draw, do not want to do.
比如江勇，他打算另寻工作。
Jiang Yong, for example, is looking for another job.
还有些老乡的身份证在中介那里，说是想要离开，得补交750元路费。
Some villagers in the intermediary identity card there, said is to leave, have to pay 750 yuan to travel.
江勇老家的一位乡镇干部向记者证实了此事。
Jiang Yong hometown of a township cadre to the reporter confirmed this matter.
“任务重，时间紧。
The task is heavy and the time is tight.
”这位干部解释，“很大程度是政府和企业间对接没弄好。
"To a large extent," explained the cadre, "the interface between government and business has not worked out.
有些信息没核实。
Some information was not verified.
企业夸了海口，政府就信了。
Businesses boast of Haikou, and the government believes.
”对于湖北恩施的丁锐，为难之处在于，越来越多村民想复工了。
The dilemma for Ding Rui of Enshi, Hubei province, is that more and more villagers want to get back to work.
“再坚持十几天。
'Ten more days.
”这是最近挂在嘴边的话。
These are the words that have recently been uttered.
周边很久没出现病例了，追问“何时恢复”的人越来越多。
There has been no case around for a long time, and more and more people are asking when to recover.
孙雄所在的镇，聚集打牌的人也逐渐多起来。
In Sun Hsiung's town, the number of people who gathered to play cards gradually increased.
他们去处理时，遇到的反驳都相似：你们关卡也撤了，还鼓励复工，咋就不让打牌？春节后，邢台农村的部分小卖铺、诊所先被允许每天开放几小时，维持民生。
When they went to deal with it, the retorts were the same: Your barriers were removed, and workers were encouraged to resume work.After the Spring Festival, some small shops and clinics in Xingtai countryside were allowed to open for a few hours a day to maintain people's livelihood.
同行们旋即到镇里问：他们能开，我们咋不能开？“做生意的，不少都着急了。
The comrades immediately went to the town and asked, They can drive, how can we? Many of those in business are in a hurry.
”邢台那位驻村干部说。
"said the village cadre at Xingtai.
这其中，种养殖户恐怕尤为心急。
Of these, breed aquarium is afraid especially anxious.
在浙江杭州，2万株滞销兰花开出了低于五折的售价；福建平潭一户农民的700亩大葱，到4月就会烂掉。
In Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province, 20,000 unsalable orchids sold for less than 50 percent; in Pingtan, Fujian, 700 mu of onions will rot by April.
河北邯郸的一位村支书自费3.5万元，买光了全村滞销的鸡蛋，再发给孤寡老人。
A village branch in Handan, Hebei, paid 35, 000 yuan at his own expense to buy all the eggs left unsold in the village.
有电商从业者此前接受采访时总结，疫情期间农产品滞销严重，原因大概三点：一是农贸交易中心等关闭，农产品长期依赖的线下渠道几乎停转；二是防疫期间道路封闭，物流困难；三是因为停工，打包发货所需的纸箱、人工等短缺。
The reason for the serious unmarketable agricultural products during the epidemic period may be three points: first, the closure of agricultural trade centres and other long-standing off-line channels on which agricultural products have long depended; secondly, the closure of roads during epidemic prevention and logistical difficulties; and thirdly, the shortage of cartons, labour and so on.
在吉林白城的东风村，20余户农民家总共滞销了80吨大蒜。
In Dongfeng Village, Baicheng, Jilin, more than 20 farming families sold 80 tons of garlic.
党支书班立平说，最主要的问题还是物流运输，往年热络的外经销商目前都没来。
'The main problem is logistics, 'Mr. Bian said.' In previous years, foreign distributors have been absent.
这位焦虑的书记将自己的联系方式发到了网上，这几天接了30多个电话。
The anxious secretary posted his contact information online and answered more than 30 phone calls in the past few days.
有两家超市来电，听说村里品种和山东大蒜不同，蒜瓣小，更适合发蒜苗、做蒜蓉，便没了兴趣。
There are two supermarket phone calls, heard that the village varieties and Shandong garlic, garlic flap is small, more suitable for garlic seedlings, garlic, then lost interest.
有人要买三五百斤，开着车过来，班立平带着他们在村里转。
Someone wanted to buy three or five hundred pounds and drive by. Benny took them around the village.
安静的街上很快涌出滞销的农户，“咋地，书记，来人了？”再过一个月，蒜就要烂掉了。
Quiet streets soon gush out of the farmers unsaleable, "How, secretary, come?" Another month, garlic will rot.
好消息是，道路管制正逐渐放宽，有客商开始来电咨询。
The good news is that road controls are gradually being relaxed and customers are calling for advice.
东风村现在要和时间赛跑。
Dongfeng Village is now in a race against time.
班立平琢磨，今年哪怕便宜些，村民不赔本就行。
Ben Liping pondered, this year even if cheaper, the villagers do not lose money.
孙雄的镇上，村里的大喇叭最近整天喊“恢复生产”，干部们挨家挨户敲门劝说。
In Sun Hsiung's town, village loudspeakers recently shouted "get back to work" and cadres knocked on doors to persuade them.
难解的问题在于，务工者们并不愿轻易更换工作地点。
The problem is that workers are reluctant to change places easily.
浙江、江苏、广东等地发来的用工需求都很多，动辄要几百人。
Zhejiang, Jiangsu, Guangdong and other places sent a lot of labor demand, more than a few hundred people.
可村民大多还想继续节前的工作，都等着老板复工的通知。
But most of the villagers still want to continue the work before the festival, waiting for the boss to return to work notice.
那里有朋友和人脉，有熟悉的生活。
There are friends and contacts, there is a familiar life.
“何况，一个人原本做机械，已经是熟练技工，现在让他做电子，重新学，万一不擅长呢？他会觉得自己在冒风险。
"Besides, a man who used to be a mechanic, but is already a skilled mechanic, now lets him do electronics, re-learn, what if he is not good at it? He thinks he is taking risks.
” 孙雄说。
'said Sun.
春种也开始了。
Spring seeds have also begun.
倘若没有疫情，大家年后返工，家里的地留给老人种。
If there were no epidemic, everyone would return to work after the year, leaving the family land for old people to grow.
可现在，不少青壮年还在家，想着不让老人吃苦，索性把地种完再走。
But now, many young adults are still at home, thinking not to let the old people suffer, simply plant the land before walking.
孙雄最“恨铁不成钢”的，是待久了有了惰性的人，说不出门了，在家搞种养殖。
Sun Xiong most "hate iron is unsteel", is to stay for a long time has a lazy person, said not to go out, at home for farming.
孙雄提起养殖注意事项，对方一问三不知，明显在敷衍。
Sun Xiong mentioned breeding notice, the other side did not know, apparently in perfunctory.
河北邢台的那位驻村干部说，他的镇里条件好，复工压力不大。
The village official in Xingtai, Hebei, said conditions in his town were good and the pressure to get back to work was low.
附近有很多工厂，村民就近务工，进出村时量下体温就行，大半都上班了。
There are many factories nearby, the villagers work close to the workers, the village when the temperature is measured, most of the work.
陕西某村的工作队长则告诉记者，村委办公室的桌子上，现在铺满了江浙地区的招工海报，可县里的务工者以往主要流向西安、陕北和新疆，这些地区不少企业还没营业。
The head of a village in Shaanxi told reporters that the tables in the village committee offices were now covered with posters from Jiangsu and Zhejiang provinces, where workers used to move mainly to Xi'an, northern Shaanxi and Xinjiang, where many businesses are not yet open.
3生活总要继续。
Life will always go on.
孙雄发现，最近交通、购物还不太方便，村里便有四五户村民，开着小货车，到镇上批发果蔬，拉回村里卖。
Sun Xiong found that recently traffic, shopping is not very convenient, the village has four or five villagers, driving pickup trucks, wholesale fruits and vegetables in the town, back to the village to sell.
对这些悄然萌发起的新生意，干部们也考虑过，要不要干预，最后都觉得算了。
Cadres have also considered these new deals, which have sprung up quietly, whether to intervene or not, and finally feel that it is over.
它们不太合规，但的确方便了老人；经营者都是本村村民，比起每家每户去到很远的镇上采买，似乎也更安全。
They are less compliant, but they do benefit the elderly; the operators are villagers from their own villages and seem to be safer than going to distant towns to buy them.
在陕西，那位工作队长的村子正空前热闹。
In Shaanxi, the village where the leader of the team is working is enjoying unprecedented excitement.
因疫情还未返工的年轻人并没闲着，同村人间互相帮衬，不少家修起了房。
The young people who had not returned to work because of the outbreak were not idle, with the village to help each other, many houses built.
村里一批住宅都是前几年脱贫攻坚时建的，制式要合规，面积并不大。
A number of houses in the village were built during the previous few years to break out of poverty.
这些年，好多人家赚到了钱，陆续买了水泥沙子堆在家里。
Over the years, many families have earned money and bought cement and sand piles at home.
春节期间不得出门，一家人都挤在15平方米的厨房里烤火，扩建的心便更甚。
During the Spring Festival must not go out, the family are crowded in the kitchen 15 square meters to roast fire, the expansion of the heart is even more.
村里目前规定，干活儿时必须戴口罩，吃饭不能围一起。
At present, the village rules that work must wear masks, food can not be surrounded together.
干部们不时去盯一下，工作队长说，看在眼里挺高兴。
Cadres stare at it now and then, said the captain, pleased to see.
往年这时，村里年轻人早都走了，现在反倒有了些过年般的人气儿。
At this time of the year, the young people in the village had already left, but now they have the character of Spring Festival.
湖北的春耕季也到了。
The spring ploughing season in Hubei has also arrived.
覃章伟几乎每天开车去一趟镇里，帮村民交水费、电费，去肉店切肉，再买老人的药和孩子们用的文具。
Morgan drives almost every day to the town to help the villagers pay their water and electricity bills, cut meat at a butcher's shop, and buy old people's medicine and children's stationery.
新的任务是，统计各家春种用的农资，由镇里农技站统一配送。
The new task is to count the agricultural funds used in each spring, distributed uniformly by the township agricultural and technological stations.
在他的村庄，2020年，种子终归如期播下了。
In his village, the seeds are due to be sown by 2020.
孙雄记得，春节期间，有天下大雪，他在关卡执勤。
Sun Xiong remembered that during the Spring Festival, when it was snowing heavily, he was on duty.
那天他没带水壶，口渴到不行，便随口嘟囔了下。
He didn't bring a kettle that day. He was so thirsty that he mumbled.
在场的一位老大爷，腿有些瘸，啥都没说，转头往家走。
There was an old man with a lame leg who turned his head and walked home without saying anything.
孙雄也没注意，没想20分钟后，老人从家里打了杯热水，又一瘸一拐回来了，“你们辛苦了，总要有口水喝。
Sun Xiong also did not pay attention to, did not think 20 minutes later, the old man from home made a cup of hot water, and limp back, "you have worked hard, always have saliva.
”江勇老家的那位乡镇干部告诉中青报·中青网记者，对于老乡们务工时的遭遇，最强烈的感受是“心疼”，“他们信任我们才去，我们也真想帮他们。
The township official in Jiang Yong's hometown told the Zhongqing News that the experience of working for the villagers was "heartache," "They trusted us to go, and we really want to help them.
”江勇和妻子节前在昆明务工。
Jiang Yong and his wife worked in Kunming before the festival.
他们在那里租了一整间房子，有家一样的生活。
They rented a whole house there and lived like a family.
他们最近在老家盖房，欠了一笔钱，觉得东部的收入更高。
They recently built a house in their hometown, owe a sum of money, feel the income of the east is higher.
他想核实新工作的信息，其实心安了，就没事了，但一直没等来东部县城的政府人员。
He wanted to verify the new job information, in fact, the peace of mind, it is all right, but has not been waiting for the eastern county government personnel.
好消息是，乡劳保所的所长要来帮他们了。
The good news is that the Commanding Officer of the Commune Labour Office is coming to help them.
老家的干部说了，从此以后，集体务工的每一批人，都由政府派专人送到，安顿好后，工作人员再返回。
Cadres of the hometown said that from then on, each group of collective laborers was sent by the government, settled down, staff returned.
很多时候，帮助展现出了用处。
In many cases, help shows its usefulness.
在湖南邵阳，政府为一家滞销了3万斤鹌鹑蛋的养殖场安排了媒体拍摄。
In Shaoyang, Hunan, the government arranged media filming for a farm that sold 30000 quail eggs.
短片发出后，滞销了1个月的蛋，2天就卖完了。
After the short film was issued, unsold eggs for 1 month, 2 days sold out.
心有余悸的老板娘说：谢谢，谢谢，20万元的货，我们差点就垮了。
The woman with the palpitations said: Thank you, thank you, 200,000 yuan goods, we almost collapsed.
湖北黄州的一位农妇有着罹患重度精神病的孩子，丈夫意外摔死后，她是这个家庭唯一的劳动力，并最终成了“脱贫能手”。
A peasant woman in Huangzhou, Hubei province, has a child with severe mental illness. After her husband accidentally fell, she became the family's sole labor force, eventually becoming a "poverty alleviation expert."
但在刚刚过去的冬天，她又多了3万枚卖不出去的柴鸡蛋，足以将她拖回深渊。
But this past winter she had 30,000 more firewood than she could sell, enough to haul her back into the abyss.
负责帮扶的村官编辑了网络求助信息，发出后7个小时，黄州人买光了她的鸡蛋。
Seven hours after the village official in charge of helping helped edit the online help message, the Huangzhou people bought all her eggs.
货物交接时，农妇几乎说不出话。
The woman could hardly speak when the goods were handed over.
当天晚上，那名村官用了2个小时，给全城每一位买鸡蛋的人发送了感恩的短信。
That night, the village official spent two hours sending a thank-you note to every egg buyer in the city.
丁锐在等着湖北解禁那一天。
Ding Rui is waiting for Hubei to release that day.
对于接下来的工作，他并不太担心。
He was not too worried about the work that lay ahead.
站在田间，看着三三两两的人已经在自家地里劳作，他还是相信，这个冬天都熬过了，一切总会好起来的。
Standing in the fields and watching the twos and threes already working in their fields, he still believed that everything would be all right if he survived the winter.
中国青年报·中国青年网出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
China Youth Daily & amp; China Youth Net & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
复工的复与杂。
Return to work of complex and miscellaneous.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "复工的复与杂";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; reinstated and with & quot;;
var msg_desc = "村民追问起干部，“啥时候彻底恢复？”";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
