一个湖北村庄的防疫故事：村医穿雨衣当防护服。
An epidemic prevention story in a Hubei village: village doctors wear raincoats as protective clothing.
秦珍子。
Qin Zhenzi.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
作者秦珍子编辑 张国农历庚子年初一早上8点多，湖北村医张茹芳（应受访人要求化名）出门上班。
Author Qin Zhengzi editor Zhang Guozhi Lunar New Year in the early morning more than 8: 00, Hubei village doctor Zhang Zufang (at the interviewee's request alias) went out to work.
她的防护装备是：一件雨衣、一双雨靴、一副平光眼镜。
Her protective gear is: a raincoat, a pair of boots, a pair of flat glasses.
她在雨靴外又套了一双鞋套。
She put on a pair of shoes in addition to her rain boots.
晚辈笑她，“非主流混搭”。
The younger generation laughed at her, "out of the mainstream mix."
丈夫建议她工作时戴上摩托车头盔，她试着戴了一下，感觉重，放弃了。
The husband advised her to wear a motorcycle helmet while she was working. She tried it on and felt heavy and gave up.
这是湖北省荆州市江陵县的一个村子，距离武汉市200多公里。
This is a village in Jingzhou, Hubei Province, more than 200 kilometers away from Wuhan.
张茹芳所在的村医务室一共有两名医生，日常服务的村民则有两三千人。
Zhang Zufang's village infirmary had two doctors in all, and two or three thousand villagers served daily.
她在这里平静工作了几十年，直到新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情爆发以来，她成为农村医疗体系应对疫情的末端环节。
She worked calmly here for decades, until the outbreak of the new coronavirus-infected pneumonia, she became the last link in the rural medical system's response to the epidemic.
从早上7点开始，村里的公共喇叭就不断以“命令式口吻”播音：禁止串门，禁止聚餐。
From 7 a.m. onwards, village public speakers continued to "command the tone" of the tone: no door-to-door, no meals.
村委会的灯又亮了一夜，24小时有人值班。
The village committee lights went on all night, and people were on duty 24 hours a day.
几天以来，到医务室看病的村民较往常减少，但来的人症状都比较类似，主要是发烧、咳嗽以及其他“看起来像感冒”的情况——考虑到防疫形势，没有此类症状的村民尽量避免去医务室。
Over the past few days, fewer villagers than usual have come to the clinic, but the symptoms are similar, mainly fever, coughing and other "cold-like" conditions - villagers without such symptoms try to avoid going to the clinic, given the epidemic situation.
大部分时间，张茹芳都在给看病的村民们普及新型肺炎病毒知识，“一种来源不明的病毒，初期症状和感冒差不多，但也可能不发烧”。
Most of the time, Zhang was popularizing the new pneumonia virus among the villagers who saw him. "A virus of unknown origin has the same initial symptoms as a cold but may not have a fever."
有发热情况的，她赶紧让患者去镇卫生院或者县医院就诊，可以初步判断为普通感冒的，就给一些药品让在家观察，“防止在医院交叉感染”。
Fever situation, she hastens to let the patient go to town health center or county hospital to see a doctor, can judge initially for common cold, give some medicine to let home observe, "prevent cross-infection in hospital".
据她观察，村民的防护意识近几日明显提高。
The villagers' sense of protection, she observed, has risen sharply in recent days.
春节前“返乡潮”到来时，随着年轻人归来，麻将馆也火爆起来，需要抢位置或提前预定。
Spring Festival before the arrival of the "return tide," with the return of young people, mahjong also hot, need to grab a seat or advance booking.
如今，很少有人再去打麻将了，串门拜年的人也少了很多。
Nowadays, few people go to play mahjong any more, and fewer people pay New Year visits.
来医务室的村民几乎都戴了口罩，甚至还有戴“N95”的。
Almost all the villagers who came to the infirmary wore masks and even "N95."
镇上的药店口罩“限购”，每天“可凭身份证登记购买”。
The town's drugstore masks are "restricted" and "can be purchased with ID cards" every day.
腊月二十九夜里，村干部们挨家挨户敲门，按照镇里传达的要求，发放“预防肺炎”的传单。
On the 29th of December, village officials knocked on the door door to door and handed out leaflets "Pneumonia Prevention" according to the request of the town.
每天，镇干部会挨村“巡逻”，去村委会、各村医务室查看，甚至会在路口劝退过年走亲访友的人。
Every day, town cadres will be next to the village "patrol," to the village committee, the village clinic to see, and even at the intersection will persuade people visiting relatives and friends.
村干部会排查“返乡人员”和有红白喜事计划的家庭。
Village officials will check out "returnees" and families with red and white wedding plans.
有的村子每天“监控返乡村民体温”，将记录上报。
Some villages "monitor the temperature of returning villagers" every day, will report the record.
所有村庄按照镇上的应急通知，“红事一律取消，白事尽量从简”。
All the villages, according to the town's emergency notice, "all red things are canceled, white things as simple as possible."
荆州市级疫情防控指挥部要求，“酒店、宾馆无条件接受宴席、房间的退订退费”。
Jingzhou level epidemic prevention and control command requirements, "hotels, hotels unconditionally accept banquet, room cancellation fees."
张茹芳所在的医务室平均每天接触患者及家属超过100人。
Zhang Zhufang's infirmary was in contact with more than 100 patients and family members on average every day.
全镇有10多个农村医务室，包括她在内，村医们向镇里提出需要防护服。
There are more than 10 rural clinics in the town, including her, and village doctors have asked the town for protective clothing.
“我一旦被感染，会感染很多人”，她解释。
"Once I get infected, it infects a lot of people," she explains.
最终，他们每人分到一套从县里协调来的防护服。
Eventually, each of them was given a suit of protective clothing coordinated from the county.
防护服“很薄”，套在冬衣外容易破，且不能反复使用，“还不到万不得已的时候”不舍得穿。
Protective clothing "very thin", set outside the winter clothing easy to break, and can not be used repeatedly, "before last resort" unwilling to wear.
张茹芳如今就用雨衣雨靴代替防护服。
Zhang Zhufang now uses raincoat rain boots to replace the protective clothing.
谨慎起见，她上班时同时戴3个口罩，每隔几小时需要更换口罩时，她会取下紧贴面部的那一个，再在最外面戴上一个新的。
As a precaution, she wears three masks at work at the same time. Every few hours, when she needs to change her mask, she takes off the one next to her face and puts on a new one on the outside.
靠着镇上分配的10个口罩，加医务室原来的一点储备，她和同事撑了3天，终于等到新供给。
Relying on the town's 10 face masks, plus a small supply of infirmary supplies, she and her colleagues held out for three days before finally waiting for a new supply.
大年初二早上，她接到了镇上的通知，医疗物资已经到位，可以去镇卫生院领取。
On the morning of New Year's Day, she received a notice from the town that medical supplies had arrived and could be collected at the Town Health Center.
此前，医疗物资紧缺是一个明显问题。
Previously, shortages of medical supplies were an obvious problem.
张茹芳在外地工作的侄女对记者表示，除夕夜她的同乡们一直在通过社交网络呼吁，转发荆州市中心医院、荆州市第一人民医院、荆州市第二人民医院发布的“接受捐赠”公告。
Zhang Zufang's niece working in the field told reporters that on New Year's Eve her fellow villagers had been appealing through social networks to the "accept donations" notices issued by Jingzhou Central Hospital, Jingzhou First People's Hospital and Jingzhou Second People's Hospital.
张的女儿曾向荆州市人民医院医生朋友求助，希望给母亲找来一套防护装备，却被告知“我连口罩都要去外面买，哪来的防护服”。
Zhang's daughter asked for help from a doctor's friend at Jingzhou People's Hospital to find a protective gear for her, but was told "I have to go outside to buy masks, where to buy protective clothing."
有人在群里发了“用文件袋制作护目镜”的视频，张茹芳的丈夫看到了，去给妻子找来了雨衣和摩托车头盔。
Zhang Zufang's husband saw it and went to fetch his wife a raincoat and a motorcycle helmet.
对于“新型肺炎”，村民们的态度时而重视，时而轻视。
For the "new pneumonia," the attitude of villagers sometimes value, sometimes despise.
美国“撤侨”的消息传来，引起一轮紧张；每天通报的“治愈患者”数量增加，紧张就又会缓解。
News of the "evacuation" from the United States caused a round of tension, which subsided as the number of "cured patients" reported each day increased.
武汉要建“小汤山”，大家的反应是：“医院装不下了吗？”一打听，四里八乡没有“确诊”的人，又觉得没事了。
Wuhan to build "Xiaotangshan," everyone's reaction is: "The hospital can not hold it?" A query, no "confirmed" people, feel free again.
张茹芳年轻时被派到城市“学医”，村老支书对她说：“我们要培养一个’永久牌’，不是’飞鸽牌’，一定要回到村里。
When Zhang Zufang was sent to study medicine in the city when she was young, the village elder brother told her, "We must cultivate a 'permanent card', not a 'Flying Pigeon,' but must return to the village.
”新型肺炎疫情出现后，家人劝她别去上班了，她犹豫过，还是去了，“都是乡亲，太熟悉了，不可能不去”。
"After the outbreak of the new pneumonia, family advised her not to go to work, she hesitated, or went," are folks, too familiar, impossible not to go. "
她坦言，一个人在家时也觉得很害怕，哭过好几次：“敌人是谁？敌人在哪？都不知道啊。
She confessed that she felt frightened when she was at home and cried several times: "Who is the enemy? Where is the enemy? Do not know."
手里也没有武器，搞不好还会连累全家人。
I don't have a weapon in my hand, or I might endanger the whole family.
”但当穿上白大褂，她又觉得压力小一些，“这是我的职责”。
But in her white gown, she felt less stressed, "It's my job."
每天下班回到家，张茹芳会用84消毒液擦洗雨衣，用酒精擦拭钥匙、锁、门把手和她触摸过的家具。
Every day when she came home from work, Zhang would scrub her raincoat with disinfectant 84 and wipe the keys, locks, doorknobs and furniture she had touched with alcohol.
为了保护家人，她坚持在家里也戴着两层口罩，和家人分房而睡。
To protect her family, she insisted on wearing a two-storey mask at home and sleeping apart from her family.
全家人吃饭时用公筷分菜，并且尽量用一次性餐具。
The family eat with chopsticks and try to use disposable tableware.
她会端着饭菜到远离丈夫和女儿的地方吃。
She would carry the food far away from her husband and daughter.
镇里进入了紧张的防疫状态。
The town went into a state of intense immunization.
镇政府连轴转，没人过年休假。
Township governments run wild. No one takes annual vacations.
县城也是如此，初一晚上，有人在凌晨接到了镇领导发布的通知，告知各村要调用辖区内货车封闭路口，派专人把守，除应急救援车辆一律限行；各村连夜安排，“落实封闭自保行为，不谈条件，不谈报酬，战时状态，十万火急”。
County is the same, the first night, someone in the early morning town leaders issued a notice that the villages to call the area of closed truck junction, assigned security, except for emergency rescue vehicles, night arrangements, "the implementation of closed self-insurance, conditions, not pay, wartime state of emergency."
此前，江陵县的防控指挥部已经连续发布1、2、3号通告，宣布实施包括公共交通线路停运、外地返乡人员健康登记、营业场所关闭、交通要道设置疫情检测点等措施。
Before that, the Control and Prevention Command of Jiangling County had issued No.1, 2 and 3, announcing the implementation of measures including the suspension of public transportation lines, the health registration of returning migrant workers, the closure of business premises and the installation of epidemic detection points along major transportation routes.
初一早上，张茹芳出门前，门口就有村民来访，希望进屋看病，她没同意。
On the morning of the first day, Zhang Zhufang out of the door, villagers visited, hoping to enter the hospital, she did not agree.
但病人进家这种情况难以避免：她晚上一回家，又有老人为咳嗽的妻子而来，找她开药，打量她一番问道：“还戴着口罩？你怎么这么怕死！”她早就想好了，接下来还要去镇上采购些一次性雨衣，“明天脑袋上一定要套个塑料袋”。
As soon as she got home at night, an old man came to see her cough wife, looked at her and asked, "Still wearing a mask? How could you be so afraid of death!" She had thought long ago that she would go to town to buy some disposable raincoats and "have a plastic bag on her head tomorrow.
（本文由中国青年报独立出品，首发在中国青年报客户端及头条号，加入树木计划。
(This article is produced independently by China Youth Daily. It is first published in China Youth Daily client and headline number.
）。
).
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一个湖北村庄的防疫故事：村医穿雨衣当防护服。
An epidemic prevention story in a Hubei village: village doctors wear raincoats as protective clothing.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "一个湖北村庄的防疫故事：村医穿雨衣当防护服";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; in a raincoat.
var msg_desc = "“明天脑袋上一定要套个塑料袋”";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "Be sure to have a plastic bag with your head tomorrow.";
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
