欧洲足球几乎成了全球抗疫的反面典型，它会推到一张怎样的多米诺骨牌？。
European football has become almost the antithesis of the global epidemic. What kind of domino does it push?
菲尼克斯。
Phoenix.
新民周刊                      。
Xinmin Weekly.
新民周刊。
Xinmin Weekly.
深度和角度——这就是我们能做的。
Depth and angle - that's what we can do.
。
.
全球体育的一体化已经非常紧密。
Global sport is already very closely integrated.
疫情之下，欧洲足球沉迷于利益、优柔寡断而给世界足坛推倒的这块多米诺骨牌，最终将带来怎样的连锁反应，恐怕谁也无法预料。
No one can predict the chain reaction that a domino of European football, obsessed with interest and indecision, will eventually cause in the world.
文 | 菲尼克斯欧洲五大联赛已经全面停摆。
Rene Phoenix's five major European leagues have come to an end.
这预示着什么呢？01欧洲现已成为海外新冠疫情的“风暴中心”，而五大联赛和欧洲足球赛事也无法避免被卷入的命运。
Europe is now the "storm centre" of the new crown overseas, and the big five leagues and European football are not immune to getting involved.
在本周早些时候，五大联赛中宣布停摆的还只有所在国疫情较为严重的意甲、西甲和法甲；英超如同其国内与众不同的疫情防控思路一般，原定本周末的比赛继续进行；德甲原也准备让周末比赛照踢，只是需要空场。
Earlier this week, only Serie A, Spanish and French were suspended in the five major leagues; the Premier League was scheduled to continue this weekend, as was its own unique approach to disease control; and Bundesliga was ready to play this weekend, but only if there was a gap.
然而，英超和德甲的最后挣扎还是抵不住疫情在各俱乐部中的迅速蔓延。
However, the final struggle of the Premier League and Germany is still not up to the rapid spread of the epidemic in the clubs.
就在英超宣布本周末继续比赛不久，阿森纳主教练阿尔特塔被确诊感染新冠病毒，紧接着切尔西球员奥多伊也确诊感染。
Shortly after the Premier League announced the start of the game this weekend, Arsenal manager Arteta was diagnosed with the new crown virus, followed by Chelsea player Odoy.
另外，莱斯特城、伯恩茅斯、埃弗顿、沃特福德等球队也都有球员出现相关症状。
In addition, Leicester City, Bournemouth, Everton, Watford and other teams also have relevant symptoms.
英超不得不紧急修改了日程，于北京时间3月13日晚间宣布所有比赛暂停，不早于4月初恢复。
The Premiership has had to revise its schedule urgently to suspend all games on the night of March 13, Beijing time and resume them no earlier than early April.
英超确诊的主教练阿尔特塔（左）和球员奥多伊德甲也没能扛住，其后宣布了暂停本周末所有比赛。
The Premier League coach Arteta (left) and player Oddar Edgar were also unable to hold on and announced a suspension of all games over the weekend.
德乙球队汉诺威96以及纽伦堡都已经出现确诊病例。
Confirmed cases have been reported from Hannover 96 and Nuremberg.
德国职业足球联盟决定下周一开会，讨论德甲、德乙级后续比赛是否要暂停至4月初。
The Bundesliga have decided to meet next Monday to discuss whether the Bundesliga and German Serie B tournaments will be suspended until early April.
至此，欧洲五大联赛全部停摆。
All five European leagues are now at a standstill.
欧洲其他国家的足球联赛如荷甲、葡超等也已暂停；而同时欧足联也已宣布欧冠、欧联比赛暂停。
Football leagues in other European countries such as Holland and Portugal have also been suspended, while UEFA have announced the suspension of the Champions League and the European Union.
欧洲的足球赛事陷入全面停顿。
Football in Europe has come to a complete standstill.
五大联赛全面停摆这绝对是“活久见”！要知道，英国足球顶级联赛上一次停摆还是在1939年，因为二战的爆发。
All five leagues are dead! You know, the last time British football was suspended was in 1939 because of the outbreak of World War II.
在欧洲足坛的这场风暴中，似乎只有中国人或者与中国相关的人有所预见。
Of all the storms in European football, only the Chinese or those associated with China seem to have foreseen them.
据西班牙媒体报道，正在当地拉练的中超球队武汉卓尔已经确定本周六返回中国。
According to Spanish media reports, the local coach of the Chinese super team Wuhan Zhuo has confirmed that he will return to China this Saturday.
武汉卓尔主帅冈萨雷斯透露了回国的原因：“现在西班牙的疫情问题比较严重，中国基本上已经没问题了。
Wuhan Zhuo De Gonzalez revealed the reason for the return: "Now Spain's epidemic is more serious, China is basically no longer a problem.
”之前武汉卓尔正是因为国内疫情的原因，无法回到武汉的基地，选择了1月底去西班牙拉练；而目前疫情又在西班牙暴发，他们不得不折返回国“避险”，但回到武汉也不太可能，必须另选一座城市暂留。
"Wuhan Zhuo was unable to return to Wuhan because of the outbreak, chose to go to Spain at the end of January to practice, and the outbreak of the current outbreak in Spain, they had to return to" escape ", but return to Wuhan is unlikely, must choose a city temporarily.
武汉卓尔的决定可谓非常及时，因为据路透社等媒体3月14日报道，西班牙政府已起草一项法令，将进行全国范围内的封锁。
Wuhan Zhuo's decision is timely because the Spanish government has drafted a decree that will impose a nationwide embargo.
正在西甲征战的中国球员武磊在他的个人微信公号上说：“最近西班牙的疫情也开始蔓延了，首都马德里的情况相对严重，我在后台收到了很多关心我和家人的留言，很感谢大家。
"The recent outbreak in Spain has also started to spread," Wu Lei, a Chinese player who is fighting in Spain, said in his personal message. "The situation in the capital Madrid is relatively serious.
全球都在跟病毒对抗，希望国内的朋友也不要放松警惕，做好防护，保护好自己和家人。
The world is fighting the virus, I hope friends at home do not relax their vigilance, good protection, protect themselves and their families.
我们都能等来胜利的一天！”另外，北京时间3月13日，外媒拍到的英超球队曼联的球员抵达训练场的一组照片中，只有从上海申花租借加盟的外援伊哈洛戴了口罩，他如此强烈的防控意识显然和在中国的经历密切相关。
We can all wait for a winning day! "On March 13, foreign media showed United's Premier League players arriving at the training ground. Only the foreign aid Ihalo, who joined on loan from Shanghai Shenhua, wore face masks.
伊哈洛戴上了口罩近期，中国各界对意大利抗击疫情进行了全方位援助。
Ihalo put on a mask recently, the Chinese community to Italy to fight the outbreak of all-round assistance.
对此，目前正随上海申花在阿联酋训练的意大利球员沙拉维感谢说：“在疾病预防方面，我首先要在这里感谢中国为意大利提供的帮助，这种情况下真的非常宝贵。
"When it comes to disease prevention, first of all I would like to thank China for its help to Italy, which is very valuable," said Sharavi, an Italian player who is currently training with Shanghai Shenhua in the UAE.
”他还透露，申花队友们已经决定和他一起继续为意大利捐赠医疗物资。
He also revealed that Shenhua's teammates had decided to continue donating medical supplies to Italy with him.
在意大利驻上海总领事馆的支持下，这批物资很快就会发放给最需要的人。
With the support of the Italian Consulate General in Shanghai, the supplies will soon be distributed to those most in need.
沙拉维的同胞，目前同样在中超效力的山东鲁能球员佩莱，在社交媒体上发出中国医疗队抵达意大利的照片，并“脱帽致敬”表示感谢。
Salavi's compatriot, Shandong Luneng Pailey, who also plays in China, thanked the Chinese medical team for their arrival in Italy and "took off his hat" on social media.
佩莱的社交媒体截图02尽管欧洲足球赛事终于全面停摆，但不少人发出质疑：为什么这么晚？前曼联球员、现天空体育评论员加里·内维尔就表示：“英超的管理人员把这件事情弄得一团糟，非要等到一名俱乐部教练感染了病毒才行动，他们的行为令人感到尴尬。
(Gary Neville, former Manchester United player and current Sky Sports Commentator) (Gary Neville) "The Premiership managers made such a mess of this that it was embarrassing to wait until a club coach became infected with the virus," said Gary Neville, a former Manchester United player and current Sky Sports Commentator.
”各国职业联盟和欧足联这么做的理由说来也简单，就是一个字：钱。
Professional unions and UEFA do so for a simple reason: money.
目前欧洲足坛巨大的经济体量，让管理者的任何决策都不得不考虑到对金钱利益的影响。
The sheer size of Europe's soccer economy means that any decision-making by managers has to take into account the impact on monetary benefits.
以英超联赛为例，它的经济体量超过了英国整体GDP的1%，仅每年上交的税款就足以支付全国一半警察的工资。
In the Premier League, for example, the economy is larger than 1 per cent of Britain's overall GDP, and the annual tax bill alone is enough to pay half the national police.
西甲和西乙联赛直接和间接带来的经济贡献也占到了西班牙GDP的1.37%，这几乎是该国航空业的1.5倍。
Spain's direct and indirect economic contribution to the Spanish league table also accounts for 1.37% of Spanish GDP, almost 1.5 times that of the country's airlines.
在商业化迅猛发展的情况下，转播权和赞助费是各俱乐部和职业联盟收入的重要来源，一旦比赛停止，这些收入都化为泡影；同时球员的工资还照样要发，如果暂停发工资或者减薪，俱乐部马上会被球员维权。
With the rapid development of commercialization, rights and sponsorship fees are an important source of revenue for clubs and professional leagues. Once a game is over, these revenues go up in smoke, and players' salaries are still paid, and the club is immediately put on the back burner if wages are suspended or reduced.
而在目前欧洲主要联赛的俱乐部，在球员工资这一块儿的支出基本上占到了年收入的50%-80%，甚至单赛季就超过100%；对于一些豪门球队来说，每年开出两三亿欧元的总工资已成了“标配”。
In major European leagues, players' salaries now account for roughly 50% -80% of annual revenues, or even more than 100% a season; for some big teams, a gross salary of 2.3 billion euros a year is the norm.
如果停赛时间过长，某些俱乐部出现资金链断裂、最后破产的可能性非常之大。
If the suspension is too long, the possibility of some clubs breaking the financial chain and eventually going bankrupt is very high.
照这样的逻辑，欧洲各大联赛一定会想尽办法避免停赛，首先是在疫情已经出现蔓延趋势时，还让比赛继续踢；如果严重些了，就空场比赛，这样能保住转播和赞助领域的收入，而这一块儿比现场门票收入要高；只有实在撑不住了，才会宣布停摆。
In this logic, the major leagues in Europe will try to avoid a stoppage, first of all by letting the game continue when the epidemic is already spreading, and, if it is more serious, by playing on the sidelines in order to preserve the revenue from broadcasting and sponsorship, which is higher than ticket sales on the spot.
3月8日，意甲联赛“国家德比”尤文图斯对国际米兰的比赛空场进行　图｜新华社看看五大联赛里率先停摆的意甲就能明白：意大利政府强制要求全国体育比赛空场进行之前，很多小俱乐部仍然在意甲联盟会议里反对空场比赛，因为门票收入对于他们来说也非常重要。
Italy's top five league fixtures will be revealed when Juventus play off Inter on March 8, Xinhua news agency said: Before the Italian government forced the opening of the national sports competition, many small clubs were still opposed to empty play at the Serie A conference because ticket revenues were also important to them.
就算到了全国新冠肺炎确诊接近万例的“危急时刻”，意甲停摆的决定还是来自政府，而不是职业联盟和各俱乐部。
Even at a "critical moment" of nearly 10,000 new cases of pneumonia nationwide, the decision to suspend Serie A comes from the government, not from professional leagues and clubs.
而且，目前的“停摆”都是宣布延期，并没有说彻底取消，因为要是赛季报销，各联赛的直接损失都会达到数亿、数十亿欧元的规模，这是各俱乐部根本承担不起的。
Moreover, the current "stoppage" is an announcement of a delay, not a complete cancellation, because if the season were to be repaid, the league would lose hundreds of millions of euros or billions of euros, something clubs simply cannot afford.
所以，就算接下来的比赛大多数要空场，也得硬撑着踢完。
So even if most of the games that follow are going to be empty, you have to hang on.
对于欧足联而言，情况是一样的。
For UEFA, the situation is the same.
它迟迟不肯宣布今年欧洲杯延期，甚至还在希腊的奥林匹亚科斯队的老板已经确诊新冠肺炎的情况下，不顾英超的狼队提出的延期申请，坚持要求后者按期去希腊踢完两支球队的欧联杯比赛。
It has been slow to announce an extension of this year's Europa League and even insisted that Olympiacos, the Greek owners of Olympiacos, should go to Greece on time to play the UEFA Cup despite an extension from the Premier League Wolves.
这都是为了最大化保住经济收益。
This is all about maximizing economic gains.
欧足联迟迟不肯宣布2020欧洲杯是否延期但这样的作为并不光荣。
UEFA has been slow to announce whether Euro 2020 will be postponed but it is not honourable to do so.
在生命面前，体育无疑该退居第二位，更遑论依附在体育之上的经济利益。
In the face of life, there is no doubt that sport should be relegated to second place, let alone economic interests attached to sport.
以往为全球做出表率的欧洲足球，这次却成了反面典型。
European football, which has set an example for the world, is now the antithesis.
03尽管欧足联要在下周才开会决定今年的欧洲杯是否延期，但这基本是大概率会发生的事件。
Although UEFA will not meet until next week to decide whether or not to extend Euro 2008, it is largely a matter of high probability.
目前欧洲各大联赛宣布暂停至4月初，明显只是“缓兵之计”，以当前各国的疫情态势而言，直至原定欧洲杯举办的6月，能否让球员正常比赛，需要画上一个巨大的问号。
The suspension of major European leagues until early April is clearly a "stop-gap measure" and, given the current situation in various countries, a huge question mark needs to be drawn on whether players can play properly until June, when the European Cup was originally scheduled.
尤其今年的欧洲杯为庆祝赛事举办60周年，第一次没有设置主办国而是选择了在11个国家的12个城市举行，举办地遍布整个欧洲，必须要整个区域全都安全才可以按计划举办，这就非常难以预料了。
This year's Europa League, in particular, celebrated its 60th anniversary by choosing, for the first time without a host country, to hold it in 12 cities in 11 countries, with locations all over Europe, and the entire region had to be safe before it could be held as planned.
2020年欧洲杯的计划举办地另外，疫情过去后，各国联赛首先考虑的肯定是恢复自己的运转，不可能优先来踢欧洲杯；用原定欧洲杯的档期来补上之前耽误的联赛赛程才是最实际的。
Europe 2020 is the place to start. After the outbreak of the disease, the top priority for national leagues is to get back on track. It is impossible to give priority to the Europa League. It is most practical to use the European Cup slotting schedule to make up for the delay.
同时，欧足联自己的欧冠、欧联也需要时间来弥补。
Meanwhile, UEFA's own Champions League and European Union need time to make up for it.
综合这些因素，目前最大的呼声就是“欧洲杯推迟一年，在2021年举行”。
Taken together, the biggest call is for a one-year delay in Euro 2008, to be held in 2021.
但事情并没有这么简单。
But things are not so simple.
2021年，是国际足联筹备已久的首届新世俱杯的举办年份，这届赛事已经决定在中国进行。
In 2021, FIFA is preparing for the first new Club Cup year, which has been decided to take place in China.
如果世俱杯与欧洲杯撞车，那欧洲许多俱乐部恐怕只能派出自己的二线队员、青年队员来参加世俱杯，国际足联是不可能容忍这种情况出现的。
If the World Cup collides with Euro 2008, many clubs in Europe will have to send their own junior players and players to the Club World Cup, which FIFA cannot tolerate.
实际上，新世俱杯本来就是国际足联拿来与欧足联的欧冠抗衡的武器，两者怎会轻易互相让步？举办世俱杯本是对中国足球非常大的利好，但若与欧洲杯冲突，各方面利益无疑也会受损。
In fact, how can FIFA easily compromise with FIFA's European Championship, which is already a weapon against UEFA's Champions League, while holding a World Cup would be a great boon for Chinese football, but it would certainly hurt all sides if it conflicted with the European Cup.
如果2021世俱杯也顺延呢？也很难。
How about 2021 World Cup? It's hard.
如世俱杯延期到2022年，又将撞上同年的世界杯，尽管卡塔尔举办的世界杯在冬季，但夏季打世俱杯冬季打世界杯，各国球员疲于奔命，肯定也不会答应。
If the World Cup is postponed until 2022, it will hit the World Cup in the same year. Even though Qatar hosts the World Cup in winter, the players of all countries are too busy to agree to it.
再延一年到2023年？中国又将举办本土亚洲杯……2020年3月10日，作为2021年FIFA世俱杯承办球场之一的上海体育场改造工程已经正式复工　图｜IC全球体育的一体化已经非常紧密。
A year from 2023, China will host the Home-grown Asian Cup March 10, 2020, the renovation of the Shanghai Stadium, one of the stadiums in the FIFA World Cup 2021, has officially resumed work, but the integration of global sports is already very close.
疫情之下，欧洲足球沉迷于利益、优柔寡断而给世界足坛推倒的这块多米诺骨牌，最终将带来怎样的连锁反应，恐怕谁也无法预料。
No one can predict the chain reaction that a domino of European football, obsessed with interest and indecision, will eventually cause in the world.
征集令阳春三月，万物复苏。
Call for Spring March, all things revive.
在抗击疫情的战斗中，我们迎来了春天，《新民周刊》也迎来了新闻线索和故事征集的第二弹。
In the fight against the epidemic, we ushered in the spring, "New People's Weekly" also ushered in the news clues and the second round of story collection.
如今，经历了一个多月休眠的城市正在逐渐苏醒，各行各业都开始有序复工复产。
Now, after more than a month of dormancy of the city is gradually waking up, all walks of life began to orderly resumption of work.
不论您是企业老板、管理者，还是普通员工；又或者，您是老师、家长，还是学生本人……我们希望了解复工复产复学过程中的困难，或暖心故事。
Whether you're a business owner, a manager, or an employee, or whether you're a teacher, parent, or student... we'd like to know about the difficulties of getting back to work, or a warm heart story.
如果你是抗疫一线的医生护士，疫情期间拍下了珍贵的摄影作品，也欢迎联系我们投稿。
If you are a first-line doctor and nurse against the epidemic, you have taken valuable photographs during the epidemic and are welcome to contact us for contributions.
当然，抗击新冠肺炎疫情的相关故事，我们仍然欢迎。
Of course, the story of fighting the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia is still welcome.
希望广大读者朋友，提供相关线索，说出你的故事，让我们用新闻留存这一切。
I hope that the general reader friends, provide relevant clues, tell your story, let us use the news to retain all this.
《新民周刊》新冠肺炎线索征集值班编辑联系方式（添加时请简要自我介绍）：周一：应　琛　微信号：paulineying0127周二：金　姬　微信号：gepetta周三：黄　祺　微信号：shewen-2020周四：周　洁　微信号：asyouasyou周五：孔冰欣　微信号：kbx875055141周六：吴　雪　微信号：shyshine1105周日：姜浩峰　微信号：jianggeladandong✳如你需要捐赠物资，可与以下两位工作人员联系:王勇：WangYong-SH吴轶君：rommy150708（添加时请注明“捐物资”，方便工作人员快速通过您的申请，谢谢。
WangYong-SH micro-signaling: Zhou Jie micro-signaling: Zhou Jie micro-signals: kbx875055141 Friday: kbx875055141 If you need a donation, please contact: Wang Yong-SH micro-signaling: kbx875055141 Sunday: Wu Xue micro-signal: JiangHao Feng micro-signal: www.jinggeladandong: www.youtheme.cn
）新闻是历史的底稿，你们是历史的见证者。
) News is the manuscript of history, and you are witnesses to it.
期待你的故事、你的线索！▼大家还都在看这些▼·“新冠大流行”的国外待不住了！被上网追逃的她决定回国自首·口述实录 | 到处扣押物资的德国，感觉像在撞大运……·中国医疗队支援意大利，背后有三个原因新民周刊所有平台稿件，未经正式授权一律不得转载、出版、改编或进行与新民周刊版权相关的其他行为，违者必究。
Why don't you go over there = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = =
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
欧洲足球几乎成了全球抗疫的反面典型，它会推到一张怎样的多米诺骨牌？。
European football has become almost the antithesis of the global epidemic. What kind of domino does it push?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "体育";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & P & quot;;
var nickname = "新民周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "欧洲足球几乎成了全球抗疫的反面典型，它会推到一张怎样的多米诺骨牌？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; European football has almost become the antithesis of the global epidemic. What domino does it push?
var msg_desc = "欧洲五大联赛已经全面停摆。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Europe's five big leagues have all but stopped.
这预示着什么呢？";。
What does this bode for?
title: '“新冠大流行”的国外待不住了！被上网追逃的她决定回国自首',。
At the drop of a hat, she decided to turn herself in at home after being chased off the Internet.
subject_name: '新民周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '口述实录 | 再这么下去，我怕西班牙会变成下一个意大利',。
At the drop of a hat, I'm afraid that Spain may turn out to be the next Italian and Japanese.
subject_name: '新民周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '中国医疗队支援意大利，背后有三个原因',。
At the back of China's medical team's support for Italy, there were three reasons for its service.
subject_name: '新民周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
var title ="新民周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
