钟南山发话前，武汉这位医生向附近学校发出疫情警报。
Before Zhong Nan Shan spoke, the Wuhan doctor issued an epidemic alert to the nearby school.
王嘉兴。
Wang Jiaxing.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
1月28日下午三时，中国青年报·中国青年网记者实地探访武汉市第五医院输液室。
January 28 3: 00 p.m., China Youth Daily China Youth Net reporters on-site visits to Wuhan Fifth Hospital infusion room.
本文约4534字预计阅读时间12分钟中青报·中青网记者王嘉兴这是一位坚守在抗击新型肺炎一线医生的自述。
About 4534 words The expected reading time of 12 minutes Zhongqing PYN reporter Wang Jiaxing This is a first-line doctor in the fight against the new type of pneumonia.
她经历了疫情初期所在医院的慌忙无措，和自己从医31年来最不平凡的除夕夜。
She went through the initial stage of the epidemic in the hospital in panic, and his own 31 years from the most extraordinary New Year's Eve.
在她的讲述中，我们能看到那段特殊时期的严酷真相，更能看到一线医护人员对职业责任的坚守。
In her narration, we can see the harsh truth of that particular period, and the adherence of front-line medical staff to their professional responsibilities.
这些都是值得铭记的。
These are worth remembering.
征得她的同意，我们公开她的实名：武汉市第五医院消化内科吕小红主任。
With her permission, we published her real name: Wuhan Fifth Hospital Digestion Lu Xiaohong Director of Internal Medicine.
祝她和同事健康平安，祝医院的秩序和保障尽快走上正轨。
Wish her and her colleagues health and safety, wish the order of the hospital and guarantee as soon as possible to get back on track.
她说，2019年12月25日就听说有医护人员疑似感染；2020年1月2日，她建议本院设立发热门诊；1月6日起，她所在的医院接到了很多疑似病例；1月20日，她给附近高中的校长发去短信，让给原计划补课的高三学生放假；她还说，除夕夜流传的医生在办公室号啕大哭的视频，是真的。
On 25 December 2019, she said, she had heard of a suspected infection among medical staff; on 2 January 2020, she had recommended a fever clinic; on 6 January, she had received a number of suspected cases at her hospital; on 20 January, she had sent a text message to the principal of a nearby high school giving way to a third-year high school student who had planned to make up classes.
她的同事、一名70多岁的老主任发来短信，说如果需要，自己随时回来顶班。
Her colleague, a 70-year-old director, sent a text message saying she would come back any time she needed to.
12019年12月25日前后，我就听说武汉市两家医院有医护人员疑似感染不明原因的病毒性肺炎，并被隔离，其中还有呼吸科的医护人员。
On or about December 25, 2019, I heard of cases of viral pneumonia suspected to be of unknown origin by medical staff and quarantined in two hospitals in Wuhan, including respiratory medical staff.
我当时就意识到，情况可能不简单。
I realized at the time that the situation might not be easy.
内科，尤其是呼吸科的，不可能不知道病毒性肺炎怎么防护。
Internal medicine, especially the respiratory department, can not know how to protect against viral pneumonia.
他们本身就是医护人员里面最谨慎、最会保护自己的。
They are the most careful and protective of themselves.
连他们都被感染了，说明传染性可能很强。
Even they're infected, which means they can be very contagious.
病毒性肺炎每年都有，但我找同行了解后发现这次的病毒不太一样，有些人不咳嗽、不发烧，常规症状都好了，但肺部CT片的情况却很不好。
Viral pneumonia occurs every year, but I found out from my peers that the virus is not the same this time. Some people do not cough, do not have a fever, the routine symptoms are good, but the lung CT is very bad.
当时我就让同事们注意，还开玩笑说是不是该买口罩了。
I alerted my colleagues and joked that it was time to buy a mask.
后来我越想越觉得不对劲，到了2020年1月2日下午参加医院述职会时，我忍不住和院领导提建议，是不是要把发热门诊正式开起来，建立规范的检疫、导诊程序。
The more I thought about it, the more I thought about it. By the time I attended the hospital debriefing on the afternoon of January 2, 2020, I could not help making suggestions to the hospital leadership whether to open the fever clinic formally and establish a standard quarantine and guidance procedure.
本来流感季也到了，急诊压力很大。
The flu season has also arrived, with acute stress.
领导当场就同意了。
The leader agreed on the spot.
之前，发热门诊是挂靠在感染科门诊下的，病人之间很可能交叉感染。
Previously, the fever clinic was attached to an infection clinic, and there was a high risk of cross-infection between patients.
据我了解，武汉市不单独开设发热门诊的医院不在少数，因为发热门诊、感染科门诊都没什么利润。
As far as I know, Wuhan City does not set up a fever clinic alone many hospitals, because the fever clinic, infection clinic have no profit.
第二天下午，医院就接到了上级要求，不仅要设置发热门诊，还要开设发热病房，收治患有不明原因肺炎的病人。
The next afternoon, the hospital was asked not only to set up a fever clinic, but also to open a fever ward to treat patients with unexplained pneumonia.
1月28日下午3时，武汉市第五医院门诊大厅我们医院不是传染病医院，并不具备隔离条件，当时是腾出了一层楼，连夜赶工重新装修做隔离处理的。
January 28, 3: 00 p.m., Wuhan Fifth Hospital out-patient hall, our hospital is not infectious disease hospitals, do not have the isolation conditions, is vacated a floor, night-time renovation to do isolation.
1月6日前后，我们就收到了转诊来的两三例疑似感染的病人，和一个家族性聚集的多人疑似病例。
Around January 6, we received two or three cases of suspected infection referred to us, and one case of multiple suspected familial agglomeration.
事实上，从1月6日起，我们的门诊和急诊就接到了很多疑似病例，10日，我们就已经看不过来急诊了；呼吸科病房也满了，我估计其中三分之二是病毒性肺炎，为了避免交叉感染，非病毒性肺炎就不再往呼吸科病房送了。
As a matter of fact, from January 6, we received many suspected cases in outpatient and emergency departments. On January 10, we were unable to see an emergency; the respiratory ward was full, and I estimated that two-thirds of them were viral pneumonia. To avoid cross-infection, non-viral pneumonia was no longer sent to the respiratory ward.
此外，还有很多不明原因发热的病人进入消化科、肾内科、心血管科。
In addition, many patients with unexplained fever entered the digestive, renal, and cardiovascular departments.
1月10日以后，疑似的病人就只能往其他病房收。
After January 10, suspected patients will have to be collected in other wards.
但这期间，只有在发热病房的医护人员像现在穿防护服，其他科室，包括呼吸科都只是穿了白大褂和普通医学口罩。
But during this time, only hospital staff in the fever ward now wear protective clothing, while others, including the respirator, wear white coats and regular medical masks.
事后回想，可能就是因为防护不到位，加上这些病人可以到处流动，导致了疫情的扩散。
In hindsight, the spread of the epidemic may have been due to inadequate protection and the ability of these patients to move around.
后来各地疾控部门的发布的消息显示，后来的很多确诊患者，都是1月10日前后在武汉活动过。
Later, the local disease control authorities issued information that many of the later confirmed patients, are around January 10 in Wuhan activities.
但在当时，病人、医务人员乃至医疗界，都没有认为这是一个很严重的事情，完全没有预料到会井喷一样地爆发。
At the time, however, neither the patient nor the medical staff, nor even the medical community, thought that this was a serious matter and did not expect a blowout at all.
1月18日前后，我听说武汉协和医院发热门诊的医护人员开始穿防护服了，还专门腾出一栋楼收治发热病人，我才意识到情势可能很严峻。
On or about January 18, I heard that medical staff at the fever clinic of Wuhan Concorde Hospital began to wear protective clothing and set aside a building to treat febrile patients.
我呼吁大家不要到处走，建议分区管理，开电子会议，但当时大家都没有当回事。
I appealed to everyone not to go around, suggesting zoning and holding electronic meetings, but no one took it seriously at the time.
医护人员在引导秩序1月20日是周一，那天清晨7点，我给附近高中的校长发去短信，告知形势不对，赶快放假。
On Monday, January 20th, at 7 a.m., I sent a text message to the headmaster of a nearby high school telling him that the situation was not right.
学校高三的学生本来计划要继续补课，校长听了我的话，立刻放假了。
The students in the third year of high school had planned to continue with their lessons, but the principal took my advice and had an immediate holiday.
当天晚上，央视播出了采访钟南山的消息，我们才确信这个病毒能人传人。
That night, CCTV broadcast an interview with Zhong Nan Shan, we are convinced that the virus can be passed from person to person.
我意识到，我们轻敌了。
I realize that we have a light enemy.
2其实我了解这个病并不比大家早，确认的信息我也都是从新闻里看来的。
Actually I know this disease is no earlier than everybody, the confirmation message I also all looked from the news.
我们从1月3日开始做病毒性肺炎培训，但没有人说是新型的，只是告诉大家要注意，这个肺炎可能是和以前不一样的病，但那个时候不知道是新型冠状病毒肺炎。
We started training for viral pneumonia on January 3, but no one said it was new. We just wanted to tell you that this pneumonia may not be the same as before, but it was not known that it was a new coronavirus pneumonia.
一直以来，我们的物资就很紧缺，库存的防护服不到100套。
We've been running short of supplies, with fewer than 100 suits in stock.
1月21日我们接到通知，要在23日下午6点前把医院清空，只接收发热病人。
On January 21 we were informed that the hospital would be emptied by 6 p.m. on the 23rd, and that only febrile patients would be admitted.
我曾经作为一线医生参与了2003年非典、2009年禽流感、2012年甲流的疫情防控，有呼吸道传染病的防治经验，所以我也参与了医院病区的改造。
I was involved as a front-line doctor in SARS in 2003, avian influenza in 2009, influenza A in 2012, and experience in respiratory infectious diseases, so I also took part in the transformation of hospital wards.
我们真的太缺设备了，平常每年冬季流感季，心内监护仪、呼吸机、指氧仪就很紧张，现在更不够了。
We really lack equipment, the usual winter flu season, the heart monitor, ventilator, dosimeter is very nervous, and now more inadequate.
我们甚至连输液的钩子都不够。
We don't even have enough hooks for the infusion.
22日晚上5点半的时候，领导突然要我们提前接诊。
At 5: 30 p.m. on the 22nd, the leader suddenly asked us to attend the clinic in advance.
但这时，污染区、半污染区、清洁区的都只是设计好，整个系统也还没来得及调试。
But at this point, the contaminated area, semi-polluted area, cleaning area are only designed, the whole system has not yet been debugged.
而且，我们没有防护服、N95口罩和护目镜。
Moreover, we do not have protective clothing, N95 masks and goggles.
我很强硬地拒绝了领导。
I turned down the leader very strongly.
我说，防护用品不到位就不许工作，不然等于是在病毒面前“裸奔”。
I said no work was allowed until protective equipment was in place, otherwise it would be tantamount to "running naked" in front of the virus.
后来，一名护士长帮我们从别的科室借了7套防护服，我们才开始工作，但仍然没有N95口罩，我们只能戴双层或者三层医用外科口罩。
Later, a head nurse helped us borrow seven suits from other departments before we started working, but we still don't have N95 masks and we have to wear two or three layers of medical surgical masks.
按道理这是不符合规范的，但我们没办法。
It doesn't conform to the rules, but we can't help it.
开始接诊后，黑压压的人群往门诊部里涌。
After the start of the treatment, the dark crowd poured into the clinic.
整个门诊部就像菜市场一样乱糟糟的。
The whole clinic was a mess like a vegetable market.
病人互相扯皮，很多都带着家属，还有人录像，怪我们没有做好隔离，觉得自己是在我们这里被感染的。
The patients teased each other, many with their families, and others videotaped us not being isolated and thinking we were infected.
急诊那边一次转进来10个人输液，但是每个人都要求先给自己打，这一批还没有处理完，下一批又来了。
The emergency department transferred in 10 infusions at a time, but everyone asked to do it first. The batch has not been finished, and the next batch is coming.
一整个晚上，护士打针就没停过，打一个就让病人自己拿着吊瓶去找凳子坐。
All night, the nurse did not stop the injection, hit a patient to take their own bottle to find a stool.
结果有的病人还不满意，骂骂咧咧，要求护士给送到座位上。
As a result, some patients were dissatisfied and asked the nurse to take them to their seats.
因为护目镜有点儿起雾，打针时，护士要把护目镜取下来。
As the goggles were foggy, the nurse had to take them off when they were administered.
本来护士应该戴面罩的，那样才能看得清。
The nurse should have worn a mask so that she could see clearly.
但我们至今都没有面罩。
But we still don't have masks.
到了第二天，门诊部直接挤满了人，连站的位置都没有，这得有多少交叉传染啊。
By the next day, the clinic was full of people, not even standing position, this must be how much cross-infection ah.
医院也没有力量管理秩序，这些病人到处乱走。
Hospitals also lack the power to manage order, and these patients roam the streets.
粗略统计，看病4小时，等拍肺部CT要4小时，我很怕出乱子。
Crude statistics, see a doctor 4 hours, wait to pat lung CT to take 4 hours, I am very afraid of trouble.
有些病人真的很可怜，有的很严重，家属流着眼泪求我们救命，但我们没有病床，无法收治。
Some patients are really very poor, some very serious, the family cried for our help, but we do not have beds, unable to receive treatment.
有一个医生和我说，她那天送到输液处的几乎全是“病毒肺”。
One doctor told me that almost all the "viral lungs" she had delivered to the infusion site the other day.
CT片里，肺部像棉絮一样，最年轻的只有30岁。
On CT, the lungs look like cotton wool, and the youngest is only 30.
但我们实在没有能力收治。
But we really don't have the capacity.
等他们打完针回家，又会造成更多感染。
And when they get home from the injection, they're gonna get more infections.
一名疑似患者的肺部CT图，肺部基本全“白”了后来我才了解到，1月22日晚上，有三分之二的病人都曾在别的医院看过。
A suspected patient had a CT scan of his lungs, which was mostly "white" until I learned that two-thirds of the patients had been seen in another hospital on the night of January 22.
但很多医院已经不收发热病人，引导患者到我们这些定点医院就诊。
But many hospitals no longer accept febrile patients, guide patients to our designated hospitals.
也有定点医院1月22日晚接到上级提前开始接诊的要求，但被院领导以未准备充分为由拒绝了。
On the evening of January 22, some designated hospitals received a request from their superiors to start their visits ahead of schedule, but the hospital leadership refused them on the grounds that they were unprepared.
很多医生也没准备好，没有经历过传染病的救治，没有经验。
Many doctors are not ready, have not experienced the treatment of infectious diseases, no experience.
比如武汉一家很好的医院的一个外科医生，接触了这样的病人也没有当回事，竟然去了医院的内科、急诊，发病也没有及时告知同事，其他人都跟着他一起感染。
Wuhan, for example, a good hospital surgeon, contact with such patients do not take seriously, even went to the hospital of internal medicine, emergency, the onset of illness did not promptly inform colleagues, other people with him infected.
连当医生的都没有警觉，整个局面完全是被动挨打。
Even the doctor was not alert, and the whole situation was one of complete passive assault.
31月21日接到我们医院要转为发热病人定点医院时，一名医生说孩子还很小，自己很害怕，想要辞职。
On the 21st of July, when I received a referral from our hospital for patients with fever, a doctor said that the child was still very young and that he was afraid and wanted to resign.
我很理解她，我也很怕。
I understand her. I'm scared, too.
但我为她职业发展的考虑，还是劝她坚守。
But for the sake of her career, I advised her to stick to it.
我说，我可以批准你辞职，但这会给你留下“污点”，未来去任何单位，你都会被当成是“逃兵”。
I said I could approve of your resignation, but it would leave a "stain" on you, and you would be considered a "deserter" for any unit in the future.
她没有辞职，还作为一线医生经历了1月22日晚上医院最混乱的场景。
She did not resign and went through the most chaotic scene at the hospital on January 22 as a front-line doctor.
没想到次日清晨回家后，她就开始出现被感染的症状。
When she got home the next morning, she began to show signs of infection.
返回医院接受检查后，她被认为是疑似患者，但因为没有试剂盒而尚未确诊。
Upon her return to the hospital for examination, she was considered to be a suspect but had not been diagnosed because there was no test kit.
我让她赶紧回家休息，她却说，“主任，我找个地方查一下吧。
I told her to hurry home to rest, and she said, "Chief, I'll find a place to check.
如果不是，我还想回来和大家一起战斗。
If not, I want to come back and fight with everyone.
”我当时想，如果她痊愈了，这就只是一个遗憾；她才20多岁，万一出了事，我作为她的主任怎么活下去？我怎么赔这个家庭一个女儿、一个妈妈。
I thought it would be only a pity if she were well; she was only in her twenties, and when something happened to her, how could I live as her director?
这件事情让我很难过，我怕影响军心，一个人躲到外面哭了很久。
It made me very sad, afraid to affect the army heart, a person to hide outside to cry for a long time.
我们有一位医生，孩子才7个半月，本来是可以回家过年的。
We have a doctor, the child is only 7 1 / 2 months, would have been able to go home for the New Year.
但疫情爆发后，她强行把孩子的母乳断掉。
But after the outbreak, she forcibly severed the baby's breast milk.
另一个医生，让亲戚带着两个孩子回老家，她丈夫也是大夫，早就上了一线。
Another doctor, a relative and two children back home, her husband is also a doctor, has been on the frontline.
一天晚上人员特别缺乏，她在一线顶了一夜。
One night she was particularly understaffed and spent the night in the front line.
考虑到她的健康，我没有在后一天排她的班。
In consideration of her health, I did not exclude her class the following day.
结果她看到排班表后，来找我，说自己随时待命，该怎么上班就怎么上班。
When she saw her to-do list, she came to me and said she was ready to go to work.
还有一名70多岁已经退休的老主任给我发来短信，说如果需要，自己随时回来顶班。
Another retired 70-year-old director sent me a text message saying he would come back any time he needed to.
我们做这些不求什么表扬，只求病人平平安安，只求自己平平安安。
We do not ask for praise, only the patient is safe, just ask for their own safety.
这不是什么漂亮话，是医生的基本道德。
It's not pretty. It's a doctor's basic morality.
说句实话，在这里的人没有不怕的，不怕都是假的。
To tell you the truth, no one here is afraid, not afraid is false.
我们明知道这里面是个大污染区，但都顶在一线。
We know it's a big pollution zone, but it's all on the front line.
大家选择一起住在宾馆、待在医院，就是想能互相壮胆，互相安抚。
We choose to stay together in a hotel, stay in the hospital, is to be able to embolden each other, pacify each other.
最近半个月，我每天只能睡2、3个小时，因为要协调安排的事情太多了。
For the last half-month, I've only been able to sleep two or three hours a day because there's so much to co-ordinate.
手机里一有医生护士的消息我就马上回，我就是想让他们知道，即便我暂时不在医院，我也和他们在一起。
As soon as I heard from the doctor and nurse on my cell phone, I just wanted them to know that I was with them even if I wasn't in the hospital for the time being.
很多人怕感染家人，也为了随时待命，就住在医院安排的酒店里。
Many people are afraid to infect their families and live in hospital-arranged hotels to stay on call.
但医院的食堂只给值班人员提供伙食，在宾馆休息的医护人员就吃些泡面和零食。
But the hospital canteen only provides meals for the staff on duty, and the staff who rest at the hotel eat noodles and snacks.
我家在医院附近，下了班有空时，就会做饭给他们送去。
My home is near the hospital, when off duty when free, will cook for them to send.
因为自己是高危人群，我让儿子出去住，但我的亲戚不愿意让儿子去他们家，因为怕被传染。
Because I was a high-risk group, I let my son out, but my relatives did not want him to go to their house for fear of infection.
可我的儿子也不会做饭，每天就下点面条，或是泡面吃。
But my son can't cook either. He orders noodles or eats noodles every day.
除夕夜，我给我的亲戚打电话，让她炒一个菜，放到儿子住处的楼下就行，儿子自己下去拿，起码让他大过年的能吃一顿好饭。
On New Year's Eve, I called my relatives and told her to cook a dish and leave it downstairs at my son's house. My son went down to get it himself and at least let him have a good dinner for the New Year.
我在家里烧菜给我的医生吃，可是没有人给我的儿子烧菜吃，你说我的心不痛吗？4除夕夜，网上流传好几段医生在办公室崩溃大哭的视频。
I cook food for my doctor at home, but no one cooks for my son, do you think my heart aches? On New Year's Eve, there are several videos of doctors breaking down and crying in the office.
这是真的，有一段视频中的医生就是我们医院的。
It's true. There's a video of a doctor at our hospital.
另一个视频里，情绪激动打电话的男医生也是我们医院的。
In another video, the male doctor who made the emotional phone call was from our hospital.
事实上，由于过度紧张疲惫，每个科室的医生们不知道都哭了多少次了。
In fact, because of their stress and fatigue, doctors in every department have cried for as many times as they can.
死亡让我流泪。
Death makes me cry.
我接手过一个病人，肺部已经完全纤维化了，我看着她的血氧从80降到70、60，一点点往下掉。
I had a patient whose lungs were completely fibrotic, and I watched her blood oxygen drop from 80 to 70, 60, little by little.
她抓着你的手，说医生求求你救救我。
She grabbed your hand and said the doctor begged you to help me.
你说当医生的看到这一幕谁能受得了。
You said when the doctor saw this Who could bear it.
我们愿意拼命，但基本的保障要解决啊。
We're willing to fight for it, but basic safeguards have to be addressed.
脱下防护服后，每个人一身汗，可医院只有两个时段有热水，时间一旦错过，就没法洗澡。
After taking off the protective clothing, everyone was sweaty, but the hospital had hot water for only two hours and could not take a shower if the time was missed.
医院安排的宾馆，一个科室只给两间房，根本不够睡，只能一张床挤两个人。
The hotel arranged by the hospital, a section for only two rooms, not enough sleep, only a bed for two people.
部分医务人员没有防护服、N95口罩，只能穿隔离服，戴多层口罩患者太多，我们没办法一直保持心平气和，但我们一定是想要让病人活下来的。
Some of the medical staff do not have protective clothing, N95 masks, can only wear isolation clothing, wearing multi-storey mask patients too many, we can not always keep calm, but we must be trying to keep patients alive.
大家都在和死神赛跑。
Everyone is running against death.
有一个急诊科医生央求设备科给再提供一台呼吸机，因为之前的一台在复苏完一名患者后，已经一起送进ICU了。
One emergency doctor begged the device department to provide another respirator, because the previous one had been sent to the ICU after a patient had been resuscitated.
病人太多，场面混乱。
Too many patients, the scene is chaotic.
我曾建议，可以做好调查表给患者打勾，设置好几组处方，让医生勾选，这样能提高效率；门诊有两个门，可以安排一个门专门进，一个门专门出，像安检一样；发烧的分两个区域，一个区域看轻热，一个看高热。
I suggested that it would be more efficient to tick off the patient with several sets of prescriptions that the doctor could select. The outpatient clinic would have two doors, one dedicated to the door and one to the security check; the fever would be divided into two areas, one for light fever and one for high fever.
但所有人都已经放弃休假顶上一线了，意见来不及被采纳。
But everyone has given up on the top of their vacations, and there's not enough time to get them accepted.
我理解。
I understand.
这几天，情况缓解了很多。
Things have eased a lot over the last few days.
市新型肺炎防控指挥部安排了分级分类诊疗，一些发热的市民前往社区卫生服务中心进行筛查。
The Municipal New Pneumonia Command has arranged for classified medical treatment, and some people with fever went to the community health service center for screening.
医院门诊量与前几天减少了一些。
The number of outpatient visits to hospitals has decreased somewhat compared to the previous days.
1月28日下午3点，患者就诊、拍CT片，差不多各排一到两个小时，不过输液还是要排三四个小时。
At 3: 00 p.m. on January 28, patients see a doctor and take a CT scan, about an hour or two each, but the infusion still has to wait three or four hours.
现在保安、清洁人员也穿上了蓝色的隔离服，医院秩序不错。
Now the security guard, the cleaning personnel also put on the blue quarantine suit, the hospital is in good order.
可我们心里还是没底，N95口罩仍然缺，不知道后面的物资是不是跟得上。
But our heart is still bottomless, N95 mask is still lacking, do not know the material behind is not up to date.
我21岁开始做医生，34岁成为医院年纪最小的主任之一，到今年就满52岁了。
I started as a doctor at 21, became one of the youngest directors at 34, and will be 52 this year.
我真心希望不要再有这样的经历了，希望以后医院管理能好起来，传染病的防控能更好。
I sincerely hope that no more such experience, hope that hospital management can be better, infectious disease prevention and control can be better.
有一天上班前，我告诉我的同事们，我们要去打仗了，要照顾好自己，我们杀出一条血路，活下来。
One day before work, I told my colleagues, we are going to war, to take care of ourselves, we fight a bloody road, to survive.
等疫情过去了，我们集体出境游，费用我一个人出。
When the epidemic is over, we will travel abroad collectively, at my own expense.
我说，只要我活着，就算数。
I said, as long as I live, I count.
(慕宏举对本文亦有贡献)本文由中国青年报独立出品，首发在中国青年报客户端及头条号，加入树木计划。
This article is produced independently by China Youth Daily. It was first published in China Youth Daily client and headline number, and joined the Tree Program.
PS：我们正在寻找采访对象！不管你在湖北还是其他地区，不管你在城市还是农村，只要你是正在抗击疫情的医务工作者、患者、患者家属、公务人员、医疗防护设备厂商……只要你注意到、了解到一些对我们此次应对疫情很重要的线索、情况，请与我们联系。
Whether you are in Hubei or other areas, whether you are in urban or rural areas, as long as you are fighting the epidemic health care workers, patients, family members, public officials, medical equipment manufacturers... as long as you notice and understand some of the important clues to our response, please contact us.
请让信息流动，而不是“隔离”！记者的联系电话如下（ 微信同号，记者可能正在采访，可以先添加微信）：中国青年报记者马宇平 17610570707中国青年报记者耿学清18311290198中国青年报记者秦珍子 18610675921中国青年报记者李强 18510412824中国青年报记者尹海月 13552495478中国青年报记者魏晞 13011108295中国青年报记者刘言 18513956326邮箱：wuhanstory@126.com（请注明联系方式）中国青年报·中青在线出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
Please let the information flow, not the "isolation"! The reporter's contact telephone number is as follows (Wei letter, reporter may be in the interview, you can add a micro-letter): China Youth Daily reporter Qin Zhen zi 18610675921 China Youth News journalist Li Qiang 18610412824 China Youth News reporter Li Qiang 130111095478.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
钟南山发话前，武汉这位医生向附近学校发出疫情警报。
Before Zhong Nan Shan spoke, the Wuhan doctor issued an epidemic alert to the nearby school.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "钟南山发话前，武汉这位医生向附近学校发出疫情警报";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; from a nearby school.
var msg_desc = "“只要我活着，就算数。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "As long as I live, count.
”";。
";;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
