泉州楼祸。
Quanzhou disaster.
中国经营报                      。
China Business News.
中国经营报。
China Business News.
与中国企业同步成长，对话商业领袖，传播商业理想，服务商业人群，《中国经营报》掌控中国商界绝对话语权。
Growing in step with Chinese companies, dialogue with business leaders, spreading business ideals, serving the business community, The China Business Administration controls the absolute voice of the Chinese business community.
。
.
The following article comes from 等深线。
The following article comes from the bathymetric line.
Author 程维 万笑天。
Author Cheng Wei Wan smiles.
等深线。
Bathymetric line.
深度报道。
In-depth coverage.
中国经营报《等深线》记者 程维 万笑天 泉州报道杨金锵租下那片放羊地，先是种果树，之后开沙场，最后建成钢架结构楼房，在多次拆违浪潮中平安度过，并进行改建，在结构未明显增强情况下，至少新增3000吨承重，变为欣佳酒店。
China Business Daily Bathymetric Line reporter Cheng Weiwan reported that Yang Jinqiang rented the sheep farm, first fruit trees, then a sandyard, and finally built a steel frame structure building, in the face of repeated waves of demolition and renovation, in the absence of significant structural strengthening, at least 3000 tons of load-bearing, into Xinjia hotel.
新冠肺炎疫情到来时，这里成为“集中医学观察点”。
When the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia came, it became a "centralized medical observation point."
直到3月7日，楼忽然倒塌。
It was not until 7 March that the building collapsed.
29人，因为来自疫区，或者有过相关旅居史，他们虽然核酸检测均为阴性，但需要在这里观察14天后，方可开启在泉州的生活、工作。
Twenty-nine people, who had a negative nucleic acid test because they were from an infected area or had a relevant sojourn history, needed 14 days of observation before they could start their lives and work in Quanzhou.
但最终，他们未能活着离开。
In the end, however, they failed to leave alive.
在事故发生112个小时后，3月12日11时左右，救援人员在欣佳酒店坍塌现场找到了最后一名被困人员的遗体。
Rescue workers recovered the remains of the last trapped person at the site of the collapse of the Xinjia Hotel around 11: 00 on March 12, 112 hours after the accident.
至此，被困71人中，29人遇难，42人生还。
As a result, 29 of the 71 people trapped were killed and 42 survived.
同日，应急部人士告诉媒体，该酒店违法建设、多次违规改建，“暴露出地方有关方面安全生产监管责任不落实，长期造成安全风险隐患的漏洞和盲区”。
On the same day, emergency department sources told the media that the hotel illegal construction, numerous violations of the reconstruction, "exposed local parties responsible for production safety supervision responsibility not to implement, long-term security risks hidden loopholes and blind areas."
他还透露，国务院已成立欣佳酒店“3·7”坍塌事故调查组，开展事故调查工作。
He also revealed that the State Council has set up Xinjia Hotel "7 March" collapse investigation team, to conduct accident investigation.
据泉州早前通报，该楼业主杨金锵已被控制。
Quanzhou earlier reported that the owner of the building Yang Jinqiang has been controlled.
“买来的”杨金锵在泉州市江南街道上村石龟头（地名），对现年65岁的杨金锵，人们评价并不高，认为他不关心村里的事，也很少帮村里的人。
"bought" Yang Jinqiang in the streets of Jiangnan village in Quanzhou City, the 65-year-old Yang Jinqiang, people do not think highly of the village, he rarely help people.
“可能因为他是买来的吧。
'Perhaps it was because he had bought it.
”几位年长的村民告诉《等深线》（ID：depthpaper）记者，早年，杨金锵的养父母没有子女，就花钱从“泉州五保”（音）把他买过来，具体花了多少钱不知道，后来，杨金锵的养父母自己生了两个儿子，分别是杨金泽和杨金辉，以及一个女儿杨金凤。
In his early years, Yang Jinqiang's adoptive parents, who had no children, paid to buy him from Quanzhou Five Guarantees, not knowing exactly how much money they had spent.
不过，杨金锵的父母已经离世，记者未能联系到其亲属或有关部门求证收养一事。
However, Yang Jinqiang's parents have died, the reporter could not contact their relatives or related departments to seek adoption.
杨金锵只读到高中。
Yang Jinqiang only goes to high school.
村民称，杨家三兄弟关系也不好，杨金锵的生意做得相对较大，赚的钱也多，自己都住豪华大别墅了，但很少帮助两个弟弟和一个妹妹。
According to the villagers, Yang's three brothers also have a bad relationship. Yang Jinqiang's business is relatively large, he earns more money, and he lives in a grand villa, but rarely helps his two brothers and a younger sister.
村民讲的另一个细节是，村里一些远比杨金锵资产少的人，都能捐出5万元，集纳300万元修杨家祠堂，但杨金锵似乎对杨姓认同感较低，一分钱也没捐。
Another detail given by the villagers was that some people in the village, far less than Yang Jinqiang's assets, were able to donate 50,000 yuan and collect 3 million yuan to repair Yang's ancestral temple, but Yang Jinqiang seemed to have a low sense of identity and did not donate a cent.
杨金锵的名字，也没有出现在该村的多个修路捐款石碑上。
Yang Jinqiang's name, also did not appear in the village of many road donation stone.
在村里，《等深线》记者多次看到村内道路硬化捐款碑，其中的一处约1.5米宽的曲折小道的道路硬化捐款碑上，有一位名为杨金泽的人，捐款数额为300元。
In the village, Bathymetric reporters repeatedly saw hardening donations plaques on roads in the village, including a hardening plaque on a 1.5-metre-wide winding trail that features a donation of 300 yuan from a man named Yang Jinze.
个别村民无法确认该“杨金泽”，就是杨金锵的弟弟杨金泽。
Individual villager can not confirm this "Yang Jinze", is Yang Jinqiang's younger brother.
几位老年村民对杨金锵的评价是：“他不占村民的便宜，就已经很谢天谢地了。
Several elderly villagers Yang Jinqiang evaluation is: "He does not take advantage of the villagers, has been very grateful.
”在本次坍塌的欣佳宾馆东侧，直线距离940米处，即是杨金锵目前在村内的房子。
"On the east side of the collapsed Xinjia Hotel, 940 meters in a straight line, is Yang Jinqiang's current home in the village.
这栋单边长达40米的宅子，被认为是村里最豪华、最气派的。
The 40-metre-long house is considered the most luxurious and imposing house in the village.
杨金锵在村里的欧式别墅住宅。
Yang Jinqiang is in the European-style villa house in the village.
《等深线》记者 程维 摄影2米高的红砖围墙，基本被花草覆盖。
"Bathymetric line" reporter Cheng Wei photography 2 meters high red brick wall, basically covered with flowers and grass.
这些围墙除了西侧为直墙外，另3侧基本呈圆形。
In addition to the western side of the wall for the straight wall, the other three sides are basically circular.
双开铁大门宽约2.5米，高约2米。
The double-drive gate is about 2.5 metres wide and about 2 metres high.
铁门以黑漆打底，金色花纹凸显贵气。
Iron door with black lacquer bottom, gold pattern highlights the noble.
不过，大门左右的红色对联已被人撕掉，只留下5条不干胶及一部分红色对联纸。
However, the door around the red couplet has been torn off, leaving only 5 stickers and a part of the red couplet.
进大门左侧2米，踏上5级台阶，是一个平台，直行8米，即建筑的大门。
Enter the door 2 meters left, step 5 steps, is a platform, straight line 8 meters, that is, the gate of the building.
整幢建筑为欧式风格的别墅，分别以2层、3层、4层错落有致，红色屋顶，屋顶上有避雷针。
The whole building is a European-style villa with 2 floors, 3 floors and 4 floors, with red roofs and lightning rods.
这些特征，让杨金锵的宅子，与其他村民住宅明显不同。
These characteristics, let Yang Jinqiang's house, and other villager residence is obviously different.
院内，有鸟鸣，但门窗紧闭。
In the courtyard, there are birds, but closed doors and windows.
紧邻杨金锵家的几户邻居，避而不谈有关杨金锵的任何事情。
A few neighbors of Yang's family avoided talking about anything about Yang Jinqiang.
对记者所有的提问，均称“不知道”。
All questions asked of journalists are referred to as "don't know."
村民透露，坍塌的欣佳酒店，20多年前是养羊的地方，后来被杨金锵承包用作种植果树。
Villagers revealed that the collapsed Xinjia Hotel, which was a sheep farm more than 20 years ago, was later contracted by Yang Jinqiang to grow fruit trees.
不过果树没种多久，就推掉果树，做了一段时间的沙场及堆码场。
But the fruit trees were not planted for long, and the fruit trees were pushed away for some time as sand yards and yards.
此间，2012年前后，附近某大型楼盘建成，2013年，杨金锵建起钢架结构楼房。
Here, around 2012, the construction of a large building nearby, in 2013, Yang Jinqiang built steel frame structure building.
2018年，在改建后，这里变成了欣佳酒店。
In 2018, after the remodeling, it became the Xinjia Hotel.
“1688号”的生意二弟主要做汽车配件的热处理，三弟加工汽配，妹妹嫁在泉州本地。
"1688" business second brother mainly do car parts heat treatment, third brother processing car, sister married in Quanzhou local.
不过，杨金锵与几个弟妹来往很少，商业上也是各做各的生意。
However, Yang Jinqiang and a few sister-in-law with very little business is also doing their own business.
杨金锵有三个女儿：杨桂芬、杨桂红、杨桂瑜。
Yang Jinqiang has three daughters: Yang Guifen, Yang Guihong and Yang Guiyu.
2006年，他和3个女儿投资300万元，注册了泉州市新星机电工贸有限公司（3个女儿各3.03%），地址为泉州市鲤城区江南街道上村社区（旧农场内），即本次垮塌的欣佳酒店的所在位置。
In 2006, he and his three daughters invested 3 million yuan to register Quanzhou New Star Electrical and Mechanical Industry Co. Ltd. (3.03% of each daughter) at Jiangnan Street Shangcun Community (old farm) in Yicheng District of Quanzhou City, the location of Xinjia Hotel in the collapse.
其后，该地址更名为泉州市鲤城区常泰街道上村社区南环路1688号。
Subsequently, the address was renamed Changtai Street Changtai Village Community South Ring Road 1688.
具体更名时间，暂无法确认。
The exact change of name can not be confirmed.
相关资料显示，在“1688号”，杨桂瑜曾在2015年1月4日投资10万元，注册“鲤城区洋洋汽车美容店”，但目前已经注销。
According to the relevant documents, on January 4, 2015, Yang Guiyu invested 100,000 yuan to register the "Lei Cheng Yeong Car and Beauty Shop," but it has since been cancelled.
同在“1688号”，2018年3月28日，杨金锵注册鲤城区欣佳旅馆，核准日期为2019年8月19日，注册资本和实缴资本未公布，地址则是1688号地上1层大厅、4至6层。
Also in "1688," March 28, 2018, Yang Jinqiang registered Lei Cheng Yan Jia Hotel, the approval date is 19 August 2019, the registered capital and paid-in capital is not announced, the address is 1688 ground floor 1 hall, 4th to 6th floor.
该“鲤城区欣佳旅馆”，即本次垮塌的欣佳宾馆。
The "Xin Jia Hotel" in Lei Cheng, the Xinjia Hotel, collapsed.
而据官方通报信息，欣佳宾馆建于2013年，改建于2018年。
According to the official information, Xinjia Hotel was built in 2013 and rebuilt in 2018.
在2019年1月22日泉州市鲤城区公安消防大队出具的《建设工程竣工验收消防备案复查意见书》中，建设单位签收一栏，是杨桂红的手写体——这个名字与杨金锵其中一个女儿完全一致。
On January 22, 2019, the construction unit signed a column in the "Review Opinion on Fire Protection Record for Completion and Acceptance of Construction Projects" issued by the Lei Cheng Public Security Fire Brigade in Quanzhou City.
该《意见书》称：“经福建省奉达消防检测有限公司全数现场检查及功能测试，检测合格，但经竣工验收消防备案检查不合格。
"By Fengda Fujian Province Fengda Fire Test Co. Ltd. All the site inspection and functional testing, the test passed, but the acceptance of the acceptance fire filing inspection after the completion of the unqualified.
欣佳酒店于2019年1月15日申请复查，经资料审查和现场检查，综合评定该工程竣工验收消防复查合格。
Xinjia Hotel applied for review on January 15, 2019, after data review and on-site inspection, comprehensive evaluation of the completion of the acceptance fire review qualified.
”新华社3月14日报道，国务院欣佳酒店“3·7”坍塌事故调查组第一次全体会议上，据初步调查：“该项目未履行基本建设程序，无规划和施工许可，存在非法建设、违规改造等严重问题，特别是房屋业主发现房屋基础沉降和承重柱变形等重大事故前兆，仍然心存侥幸、继续违规冒险经营；地方相关职能部门监管不到位、‘打非治违’流于形式，导致安全关卡层层失效，最终酿成惨烈事故。
"At the first plenary meeting of the investigation team of the March 7 collapse of the Xinjia Hotel of the State Council, according to preliminary investigations," the project failed to carry out capital procedures, no planning and construction permission, serious problems such as illegal construction and abnormal transformation.
”欣佳酒店在上述消防验收后，究竟做了哪些整改和调整，谁参与资料审查和现场检查给予的消防复查验收合格的，这有待国务院调查组调查确认。
"After the acceptance of the fire service, what rectification and adjustment have been made by Xinjia Hotel, who participated in the inspection of data and on-site inspection of the acceptance of the qualified fire control, which is pending investigation and confirmation by the investigation team of the State Council.
村民称，杨金锵名下的欣佳酒店项目问题可能远不止这些，那块土地原本是村里的集体土地，以前是放羊的农场，杨金锵承包用于种果树，后树没种多久，就推平了用于堆码沙场等，后来就建起了钢架结构的房屋，土地手续存疑。
Villagers said there could be much more to the problem with the Xinjia hotel project under Yang Jinqiang, a village collective land that used to be a sheep farm. Yang Jinqiang was contracted to plant fruit trees.
依照法规，这个可能没有土地使用权证的建设项目，是如何建起来的？国土、住建、消防、工商、市场监管等部门，以及村、社区、街道等均难逃其责，因为在程序上，这些部门的手续互为前提，没有上一个手续，就无法进行下一个手续。
According to the regulations, how was the construction project, which may not have a land-use title, built? The state, housing, fire-fighting, industrial and commercial sectors, market supervision, villages, communities, streets, etc. are all responsible because, procedurally, these departments are mutually dependent on each other, without which the next formalities cannot be carried out.
更何况，即使在疫情发生后，泉州市、鲤城区均仍在严查违建，并时有报道。
Moreover, even after the outbreak of the epidemic, Quanzhou City, Lei City are still under strict investigation of illegal construction, and sometimes reported.
欣佳酒店又是如何被选中，成为新冠肺炎疫情的“集中医学观察点”的？记者在当地想多部门提出采访，但未获回复。
How was Xinjia chosen as the "centralized medical observation point" for the new crown pneumonia outbreak? Reporters wanted a multi-agency interview but did not receive a reply.
前后20年，放羊地变成了观察点。
Over the past 20 years or so, sheep farms have become observation points.
3月7日，欣佳酒店所在大楼，全楼坍塌。
On March 7, the building housing the Xinjia Hotel collapsed.
3秒钟坍塌附近加油站的监控显示，事故发生在3月7日晚19﹕15﹕55，视频中的欣佳酒店，在向南环路方向倒下前，有房间内有灯光，但在3楼即将触地那一刻，整幢楼断电、变黑。
Monitoring of the nearby gas station collapsed at 19: 15: 55 on the night of March 7. Before the hotel collapsed in the direction of the Southern Ring Road, there was a light in the room, but the whole building went out of power and blackened just before the third floor touched the ground.
整个坍塌过程只有3秒钟。
The collapse took only three seconds.
之后，视频中满是粉尘，飘出几十米远。
Afterwards, the video is filled with dust and floats tens of meters away.
当地应急管理部官方微博公布的坍塌时间点为“3月7日19时5分许”。
The official microblog of the local emergency management department said the collapse point was "March 7 around 19: 05."
一些媒体表述的坍塌时间，多为当天“17﹕30左右”。
Some media described the collapse time, most of the day "about 17: 30."
这段监控视频显示，坍塌前，楼体并没有此前媒体报道的“曾有前后剧烈摇晃”，更没有先向后（北）倒，然后在钢架的拉动作用下，再反向向前（南）坍塌的过程。
The surveillance video shows the building before the collapse did not have the "previous media reports of a violent shaking", much less backward (North) pour, and then the pull of the steel frame, then reverse forward (South) collapse process.
《等深线》记者发现，该楼的坍塌形状，基本为前侧（南侧）完全塌陷，但该楼的后侧（北侧）的3至7层却基本完整。
"Bathymetric" reporters found that the collapse of the building's shape, basically the front side (south side) completely collapsed, but the rear (north) of the building three to seven floors is basically complete.
从空中用无人机看，其形状，如有人一把撕开了一个盒子，露出里面诸多方格子。
Viewed from the air with a drone, its shape, like someone ripping open a box, reveals many squares inside.
这一坍塌形状，让住在酒店3至7层、且靠后侧（北侧）住的房客，未被坍塌废墟掩埋，生存概率极大，而住在靠前侧（南侧）房间内的房客，生存概率较低。
This collapse gave tenants living on the third to seventh floors of the hotel, on the back (north) side, a high probability of survival without being buried in the rubble of the collapse, while tenants living in front (south) rooms were less likely to survive.
这也是本次事发后几个小时，至3月8日上午，便搜救出几十人的原因。
This is also a few hours after the incident, until the morning of March 8, search and rescue dozens of people.
因为这些人在“被撕开一侧的盒子”里，且这些盒子的开口“朝天”，相对容易救援。
Because these people are in the "torn side of the box", and the opening of these boxes "skyward", relatively easy to rescue.
从正上方看，欣佳酒店原后侧（北侧）的3楼、4楼、5楼、6楼、7楼在坍塌后，因北侧立面消失，未被掩埋。
Viewed from above, the third, fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh floors of the original rear (north) of the Xinjia Hotel disappeared from the north facade after the collapse.
《等深线》记者 程维 摄影但3月8日上午之后的救援就异常艰难。
Bathymetric reporter Cheng Wei photography but March 8 after the morning of the rescue is very difficult.
原因在于，楼顶是一块整体浇筑的钢筋混凝土现浇板，像一顶长50米宽20米的“平顶帽子”，塌陷后，这一“帽子”，宽度上大致有8米基本与地面平铺，但另外12米却以45至60度角覆盖在坍塌楼体上。
The reason is that the roof is a whole cast of reinforced concrete slabs, like a 50-metre-wide 20-metre "flat-topped hat," which, after collapsing, is roughly 8 metres wide and horizontally paved, while the other 12 metres cover the collapsed building at angles of 45 to 60 degrees.
从远处看去，“帽子”像是整栋楼正立面墙体，却连一个窗子都没有。
Seen from a distance, the hat looked like a facade of the whole building, but there was no window at all.
但实际上，该楼前立面全部是玻璃幕墙，在坍塌中最先铺塌到地面了。
In reality, however, the facades of the building were all glass walls, first falling to the ground in the collapse.
这一楼顶“帽子”大幅度增加了救援难度。
This roof "hat" greatly increased the difficulty of rescue.
救援中，《等深线》记者注意到，前2天，为防止大型机械拖动、移动或挖掘该钢筋混凝土“帽子”，伤及下面可能还幸存的受困者，各救援队只能分成几个作业面，使用生命探测仪及搜救犬，像在地震救援中那样，用液压机械或电锤，小心在该混凝土楼板上切开一些救援孔，然后再通过喊话、仪器探测、救援犬探测等方式，决定是否继续切开下一层叠压在一起的楼板，或扩大救援孔的切开面积，展开救援。
Rescue, "Bathymetric" reporters noted that in the first two days, to prevent large-scale mechanical dragging, moving or excavation of the reinforced concrete "hat," the rescue teams can only split into several operations, use life detector and search and rescue dogs, as in earthquake relief, using hydraulic machinery or electric hammer, before deciding whether to proceed with the next layer of overlapping floor, or to enlarge the cut-through area of the rescue hole.
在波纹钢板上现浇混凝土形成的屋顶，是救援第一大障碍。
The roof made of cast-in-situ concrete on corrugated steel plates is the first obstacle to rescue.
人们只能靠手工切开一些“天窗”来展开救援。
People have to cut through some "skylights" by hand to help.
根据混凝土厚度及面积测算，这一屋顶的重量高达250吨。
Based on the thickness and area of concrete, this roof weighs as much as 250 tons.
《等深线》记者 程维 摄影因为谨慎，这种救援方式进展缓慢，一处救援点或一个救援孔的探测、切孔，进一步确定方位及救援点，确定救援方案，救援人员进入，如何安全救出等，都非常耗时。
"Bathymetric" reporter Cheng Wei photography because of caution, this way of rescue is slow, a rescue point or a rescue hole detection, cut holes, further determine the location and rescue points, determine relief programmes, rescue personnel access, how to safely rescue, and so on, are very time-consuming.
一组30人的救援队，在此类救援中，8小时内能切开2米见方的救援孔，派员深入2层到3层楼板下勘察、救援，已经极为疲惫。
A group of 30 rescue teams, in this type of rescue, can cut 2 meters square rescue hole, send personnel deep into the 2nd to 3rd floor floor survey, rescue, has been extremely tired.
几位从“火线”撤下来的救援队员称，这类救援，很多时候只能用破坏性小的方式展开救援，切下的钢筋混凝土等还只能靠救援队员站成一排，一块一块地、一桶一桶地往外传。
Rescue workers pulled out of the "lines" said that many of these rescues had to be carried out in a less destructive manner, and that the cut concrete could only be spread out in rows of rescuers, one by one, bucket after bucket.
至3月9日晚21时，救援进入第二阶段，动用挖掘机等重型机械，先将相对平缓的铺在地面上的“帽子”切块运走；再用人工在腰上栓吊绳的方式，用冲击电锤对“盖板”按2至6米见方的规格切块，然后逐一拆除吊运走；此外，开始用2台挖掘机并对坍塌现场的东侧展开全面挖掘。
By 2100 hours on the evening of March 9, the rescue operation moved into the second phase, using heavy machinery such as excavators to cut off the relatively smooth "hat" on the ground; cutting the "cover" into sections of 2-6 m by using a hammer and removing them one by one; and starting with two excavators and a full excavation of the eastern side of the site of the collapse.
这一挖掘，采用先动用重型机械作业与人工作业相结合的方式。
This excavation is carried out using a combination of heavy machinery and manual work.
也就是挖掘机在清理现场的同时，一群救援队员时刻关注挖掘面及清理面，及时发现可能的被困者或遇难者。
That is, excavators in the clean-up site, a group of rescue team members always pay attention to the excavation surface and clean up surface, timely find possible trapped or dead.
3月11日20时，救援黄金73小时已过，只剩最后一位被困者未找到，连续24小时不间断高强度救援终于暂停下来。
At 2000 hours on 11 March, the rescue gold had passed for 73 hours, leaving only the last stranded person to be found, and 24 hours of uninterrupted and intensive rescue work finally came to a halt.
12日上午11时，救援队找到了最后一位遇难者的遗体。
At 11 a.m. on the 12th, the rescue team found the remains of the last of the victims.
《等深线》记者 程维 摄影3月10日凌晨1﹕20，《等深线》记者拍摄到在坍塌现场最东侧作业的两台挖掘机找到一具遇难者遗体，救援队员随即跟上，将遇难者遗体装入白色尸袋，以担架手手相传，移至平坦开阔处，众救援队员围绕遗体成一圈，默哀，然后两侧各4至5人，以肩抬担架，将遗体送至相关车辆运走。
"Bathymetric" reporter Cheng Wei March 10 1: 20, "Bathymetric" reporters shot in the collapse of the most eastern side of the two excavators found a dead body, rescue team members into a white corpse bag, stretcher hand-held, moved to flat open places, rescue teams around the body, then four to five people on each side, to carry the body to the relevant vehicles.
至3月10日，救援队伍开始对坍塌现场一字排开6个作业面，全面动用重型机械，同步作业，声响巨大，清理速度很快。
By March 10, rescue teams began to line up on the collapse site six operations, full use of heavy machinery, synchronous operation, loud noise, the speed of clearance.
3月11日20时，黄金救援72小时已过，连续轮流作战多日的各救援队均暂停修整，各重型机械停机。
At 2000 hours on 11 March, after 72 hours of gold rescue operations, rescue teams that had been operating on a rotating basis for many days were suspended and heavy machinery was shut down.
至3月12日上午11时，救援队找到最后一位遇难者的遗体。
By 11 a.m. on 12 March, rescue teams had located the remains of the last of the victims.
建筑本身的钢架结构，是本次救援中的第二大障碍，只能人工用气焊一一切割，然后用抓机装入运渣车运走。
The steel frame structure of the building itself, is the second biggest obstacle in this rescue, can only be cut manually with gas welding, and then captured into a slag truck to transport away.
《等深线》记者 程维摄影此后的工程，就基本只需要重型机械，把坍塌废墟清空即可了。
"Bathymetric line" reporter Cheng Wei photography after the project, basic only need heavy machinery, the collapse of the ruins can be emptied.
不过，3月12日至14日记者发稿时止，救援队伍撤走后，相关方面并未立即清理或运走其余废墟，而是用临时隔离墙将其围起来，四周派员把守。
However, at the time of the press release, from 12 to 14 March, the remaining debris was not immediately cleared or removed after the withdrawal of the rescue team, but was surrounded by a temporary wall and manned from all sides.
钢构之祸？来自当地相关部门公布的信息称，该坍塌建筑建设于2013年，占地约5亩，主体7层，每层1000平方米，楼高22米，为钢结构建筑物。
According to information released by local authorities, the collapse of the building in 2013, covering about 5 mu, the main 7th floor, 1000 square meters per floor, 22 meters high, for steel structures.
2018年改造为欣佳酒店，并于当年6月开业，酒店有各类客房共计66间。
Renovated as Xinjia Hotel in 2018 and opened in June of that year, the hotel has a total of 66 rooms.
新冠肺炎疫情发生后，欣佳酒店被作为集中医学观察点，用以对来自重点疫区或有相关旅居史的人员，进行集中医学观察。
After the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia, Xinjia Hotel was used as a centralized medical observation point for people from key epidemic areas or with relevant sojourn histories.
《等深线》记者向当地建管部门询问有关该楼的建设、改造及审批手续和相关信息，未获回应。
"Bathymetric line" reporter asked the local construction management department about the building's construction, renovation and approval procedures and related information, no response.
卫星地图显示，该楼的东西方向长50米，宽20米，该楼后，有一个“7”字形的2层建筑，“7”字的上面一横长度为100米。
Satellite maps show that the building is 50 metres long and 20 metres wide east-west, behind which there is a "7" -shaped two-story building with a 100-metre cross-section of the word "7."
该楼与“7”字形建筑之间，原有4米间距，后加盖了2层楼房，将“7”字形建筑与欣佳酒店主楼连在了一起。
The building and the "7" zigzag building, the original 4 meters spacing, after the construction of two floors, the "7" zigzag building and Xinjia hotel main building connected together.
街景地图及历史街景地图显示，欣佳酒店的主楼后侧（北侧）及东西两面靠后侧的大致4米的墙体，不是玻璃幕墙覆盖，为白色瓷砖覆盖，东西两侧的墙体及前侧（南侧）均为玻璃幕墙。
Street View Maps and Historical Street Maps show that the rear (north) side of the main building and approximately four metres behind the east and west sides of the Shing Ka Hotel are not covered by glass curtain walls, which are covered with white tiles. The walls on both sides of the east and west and the front (south) are glass walls.
历史卫星地图显示，2012年时，该楼的地基（地圈梁），靠东南侧的前两个区块的范围最大，东西向跨度分别为18米左右，其余地块的地基交叉点的跨度，多为7至8米左右。
Historical satellite maps show that, in 2012, the first two blocks on the south-east side of the building's foundations (earth girders) were the largest, spanning about 18 metres from east to west, while the rest of the land mass spans from about 7 to 8 metres.
该历史卫星地图还显示，该楼的西侧（正对该楼的左侧），从南往北数的主要钢质立柱为4根，每根距离7米左右。
The historical satellite map also shows that the west side of the building (on the left side of the building) has four main steel poles running from south to north, each at a distance of about 7 metres.
卫星图显示，2012年时，该楼修建初期，西侧（图左）靠边第一列有4根支柱，第二列只有3根支柱，东侧（图右）靠南的3个区域，地基跨度高达15米至18米。
Satellite images show that, in 2012, at the beginning of the building's construction, the western side (left) had four pillars to the side, the second column had only three pillars and the east (right) three areas south of the building, spanning 15 to 18 metres.
《等深线》记者 程维 制图但从西往东方向的第二列钢质立柱，只有3根。
Bathymetric map reporter Cheng Wei but from west to east the second column of steel column, only three.
且第一根与第二根钢质立柱之间的跨度为15米左右，第二列第二根与第三根之间的距离为5米左右。
The span between the first column and the second steel column is about 15 meters, and the distance between the second column and the third column is about 5 meters.
每列柱子之间，各楼层有一根粗壮的南北向大梁连接，第一列与第二列立柱之间，有11根东西向横梁连接，这11根横梁架在南北大梁之间。
Between each column, each floor was connected by a stout north-south beam, and between the first column and the second column, there were 11 east-west beams, which were placed between the north and south beams.
该历史卫星地图中显示，暂未安装其他立柱。
The historical satellite map shows that no other columns have been installed.
《等深线》记者在守候该救援现场的4天时间中，重点关注了该建筑的钢架结构的支柱，柱底座及柱脚，各大梁与支柱的连接点架构及连接方式，各横梁与大梁的连接方式及尺寸。
During the four days of waiting for the rescue site, Bathymetric journalists focused on the steel frame structure of the building, the base and foot of the column, the connecting point structure and connection way between the beams and the pillars, and the connection way and dimension between the beams and the beams.
并拍摄了可以与人的头、手、脚等参照物直接对比的视频、图片，发给国内钢构建筑专业人士鉴别。
And can be directly compared with the head, hands, feet and other reference material video, pictures, issued to domestic steel construction professionals for identification.
迄今已有23年钢结构建筑经验，并在广州、重庆参与了多宗主要钢结构建筑的重庆豪门铁花有限公司总经理、重庆钢到家供应链管理有限公司董事长邓维明，3月12日对此作出了评价。
With 23 years of experience in steel structure construction, Deng Weiming, general manager of Chongqing Steel to Home Supply Chain Management Co. Ltd., who has been involved in several major steel structures in Guangzhou and Chongqing, was evaluated on March 12.
邓维明在仔细查看《等深线》记者过去几天拍摄的，有关该建筑的钢构的各种对比照片及视频后称，该楼的前侧设立了7根350毫米的H型钢支柱，且每根支柱之间的间隔为9米左右。
After scrutinizing various comparative photographs and videos of the structure's steel structure taken by Bathymetric journalists over the past few days, Deng claimed that seven 350 mm H-beams had been set up on the front side of the building, with intervals of about 9 metres between each pillar.
“通常我们用350毫米的H型钢，跨度都不敢超过6米，他这个建筑的主要横梁间距居然超过了9米，最大的南北柱子间跨度甚至高达17米到18米，这个用法的确很少见，一般人都不敢这么用的。
"Normally, we use 350 mm H-beams, with a span not exceeding 6 meters. The main beam spacing of his building exceeds 9 meters, and the spans between the largest north and south columns are as high as 17 to 18 meters.
”救援现场大致分成了6个作业面，所对应的是该楼正面（南侧）的7根H型钢支柱。
The rescue site was roughly divided into six operations, corresponding to seven H-beams on the front (south) of the building.
有23年钢结构施工经验的专业人士称，业内很少有人敢用这种非三角形架构的结构方式，通常，350毫米的H型钢，跨度不能超过6米，但欣佳酒店的跨度，达到了9米至18米左右。
According to professionals with 23 years of experience in steel construction, few in the industry dare to use this non-triangular construction. Typically, 350 mm H-beams cannot span more than 6 m, but Xinjia has a span of about 9 m to 18 m.
《等深线》记者 程维 摄影国内其他媒体从受访人处获得的照片显示，该楼的1层售车大厅，中空南北向跨度，在18米左右。
Bathymetric journalist Cheng Wei Photography Other domestic media obtained photos from interviewees, the building's 1-storey sales hall, hollow north-south span, about 18 meters.
邓维明说，通常钢结构建筑，都是三角形架构为主，因为三角形的稳定性最强，譬如重庆的嘉陵江大桥、巫山长江大桥，以及一些超高层建筑等。
Usually, steel structures are triangular in structure because they are the most stable, such as the Jialing River Bridge in Chongqing, the Wushan Yangtze Bridge and some super-high-rise buildings, Deng said.
钢构的基本结构形式，都是以三角形结构为主，但欣佳酒店的建筑基本结构却是四边形，一旦受力，就会非常不稳定。
The basic structure of steel structure is triangular, but the basic structure of Xinjia Hotel is quadrilateral, once the force, will be very unstable.
此外，邓维明还认为，H型钢一般都不能用于大跨度、高承重的建筑，特别是需要有巨量承重的建筑的承重支柱及横梁，只能采用圆形无缝钢柱，且需内浇灌混凝土增加强度，因为H型钢在正向受力方面有一定承受力，但在侧向及稍微扭曲方向的受力上就会非常脆弱。
In addition, Dengwei ming also believes that H-beam can not generally be used in long-span, high-load-bearing buildings, especially those requiring massive load-bearing structures. Only circular seamless steel columns can be used.
他说，即使该建筑内没有新增多层酒店，这种设计、建筑也不是有设计经验或建筑经验的人敢做的事。
He said that even if there were no new multi-storey hotels in the building, the design, construction would not be something anyone with design experience or architectural experience would dare to do.
欣佳酒店的楼顶混凝土面积为1000平方米，系在一层波纹钢板上的整体现浇混凝土，现场观测其平均厚度为10厘米左右，其匡算体积为100立方米，普通混凝土的密度为每立方米2.5吨，可以推算出该楼的屋顶混凝土的重量为250吨。
With a concrete roof area of 1,000 square metres, the Hing Jia Hotel is connected to a corrugated steel plate with an average thickness of about 10 cm, its calculated volume is 100 cubic metres, and the density of ordinary concrete is 2.5 tons per cubic metre, which leads to the calculation of the building's roof concrete weight of 250 tons.
欣佳酒店前侧（南侧）7根主要H型钢支柱的底座。
The footings of 7 main H-beams in front of Xinjia Hotel (south side).
图中该支柱的底部，做了一个简单的三角形钢构支撑。
At the bottom of the support, a simple triangular steel support is made.
这一支撑结构在该钢架结构建设初期的图片中没有，疑为酒店改装期间加装，不过，仅仅这一不到半米的三角形底座加固，对新增的巨量荷载来说，是杯水车薪。
The bracing structure, which was not shown in the early pictures of the steel frame structure, is suspected to have been added during the period of the hotel retrofit, but the reinforcement of this triangular base, which is less than half a metre in length, is only a fraction of the magnitude of the new load.
图左为用于对比的挖掘机机履带。
Figure left shows the excavator crawler for comparison.
《等深线》记者 程维 摄影此外，由于该楼的第3层至第6层的酒店改装，地板也为现浇钢筋混凝土，共新增第3层、第4层、第5层、第6层楼的共计4层楼板，常规建筑中的每层楼板的厚度为8至12厘米，按中间值10厘米厚度，仅改装该酒店所新增的4层楼板就重达1000吨。
In addition, as a result of the reconfiguration of the hotel on the third to sixth floors of the building and the addition of four floors of cast-in-situ concrete to the floors of the third, fourth, fifth and sixth floors, each floor in a conventional building is 8 to 12 centimetres thick, and the four additional floors in the hotel will weigh only 1,000 tons.
航拍图片显示，该酒店的第7层只有2.5米左右高度，但第7层的地板，仍然是现浇钢筋混凝土，为该楼再增加了250吨重量。
Aerial photographs show that the seventh floor of the hotel is only about 2.5 metres high, but the floor on the seventh floor is still cast-in-situ concrete, adding an additional 250 tons to the building.
此外，《等深线》记者还从现场救援人员处，以及在4天的现场观察中多次确认到，该建筑内改装出的酒店房间隔墙，采用的是水泥砌红砖的方式，该酒店每层楼约18个房间（记者注：18个房间为航拍图显示数据，官方公布的该酒店的客房数量为66间，未包含布草间及工作间等），每层至少需要19面隔墙，扣除2米宽的走廊的隔墙，则隔墙的长度为18米，高度为3米。
In addition, Bathymetric journalists have repeatedly confirmed from on-site rescue workers and during four days of on-site observation that the converted hotel rooms in the building are partitioned in a concrete red brick format, requiring at least 19 partitions per floor (note: 18 rooms for aerial photographs, not including cloths and cubicles, etc.), or 18 metres in length and 3 metres in height.
每块红砖宽11.5厘米，计算两面抹水泥灰浆1厘米，按13.5厘米计，据此测算，约有692.55立方米红砖（未计算各砖之间的水泥），以每立方米红砖的密度1.8吨计算，这些隔墙的重量为1247吨。
Based on a measure of 13.5 cm of cement mortar on both sides of the brick measuring 11.5 cm by 11.5 cm, it is estimated that there are approximately 692.55 cubic metres of red brick (not counting cement between bricks), which weighs 1,247 tons at a density of 1.8 tons per cubic metre of red brick.
一系列现场照片显示，欣佳酒店的地板为钢筋混凝土，隔墙为红砖加水泥砌成，简单测算，该建筑内的第3层至第7层内搭建的酒店，新增重量就超过3000吨。
According to a series of field photos, the floors of Xinjia Hotel are reinforced concrete, the partition wall is made of red brick and cement, and the simple calculation is that the third to seventh floor hotels in the building add more than 3,000 tons.
《等深线》记者 程维 摄影这一计算结果，还未计入这4层楼的南北面的4面挡墙。
Bathymetric journalist Cheng Wei's calculations do not take into account the four walls north and south of the four floors.
这意味着，即使不计入该酒店的卫生间、其他装修、家具、家电、水电管网等，欣佳酒店的第一轮改装，新增的重量就超过3000吨。
This means that even if the hotel's toilet, other furnishings, furniture, appliances, water and electricity networks are excluded, the first round of conversion of Xinjia Hotel will add more than 3,000 tons.
此前部分媒体的估算数据，改装该酒店的新增重量为300吨左右。
Prior to some media estimates, the modification of the hotel's new weight of about 300 tons.
欣佳酒店的钢构问题，一是采用了侧面受力抗扭力极差的H型钢，二是未采用稳定性强的三角形结构，三是各钢构之间的连接处，只采用了钻孔加螺钉的连接方式，没有采用三角形角钢或加固件，却在内加装了巨量荷载，最终导致坍塌。
The steel structure of Xin Jia Hotel is composed of H-section steel with extreme torsion resistance on the side and triangular structure without strong stability. Third, the connection between the steel structures is only made by drilling and screwing instead of triangular angle steel or reinforcing parts, but with massive loads built in, which eventually leads to collapse.
《等深线》记者 程维 摄影邓维明说，通常使用这种H型钢的建筑，最多不超过3层，本次坍塌的楼体，居然用H型钢建了7层，还内建酒店，因为内建酒店中的所有墙体是搭建在钢结构上，因此实际上所有墙体都是不参与3层以下的承重的，都是荷载，这种做法非常罕见。
This collapsed building, which typically uses no more than three floors, has seven floors of H-shaped steel, and a built-in hotel because all of the walls in the hotel are built on steel, so virtually all the walls are load-bearing and not below the third floor, says Cheng Wei-ming, a reporter for Bathymetric Line.
2次改装3月11日下午18时，福建省泉州市应急救援工作领导小组召开鲤城区欣佳酒店楼体坍塌事故救援处置新闻发布会，通报了事故前期调查情况。
2 refits March 11 at 18: 00 p.m., the Fujian Province Quanzhou City Emergency Rescue Work Leading Group convened the Lei Cheng Xinjia Hotel complex collapse rescue and disposal press conference, reported the investigation situation in advance of the accident.
称经初步调查，欣佳酒店在建设、改造、审批等方面确实存在严重问题。
According to the preliminary investigation, Xinjia Hotel in the construction, renovation, approval and other aspects of serious problems.
泉州市委常委、常务副市长洪自强在该发布会上称，经初步调查，欣佳酒店在建设、改造、审批等方面确实存在严重问题。
Quanzhou City Standing Committee, Deputy Mayor Hong Zhiqiang said in the press conference, after preliminary investigation, Xin Jia Hotel in the construction, renovation, approval and other aspects of serious problems.
不过，当地把这些信息的发布权“扔”给了上级调查组。
However, the local "throw" of the release of this information to the higher investigation team.
洪自强说：“我们已将相关证据收集固化，对相关责任人员已依法采取强制措施，也采取了必要的财产保全措施。
"We have collected and solidified relevant evidence, taken compulsory measures against relevant personnel and taken necessary property preservation measures according to law," said Hong.
初步调查的情况，我们将全部提交上级调查组。
The preliminary investigation will be referred to the superior investigation team.
”他说，在调查过程中，无论是酒店建设、改造、经营、监管，还是被推荐为集中隔离健康观察点的每一个环节都不会漏掉，涉及的违法违规、失职失责单位、个人包括公职人员绝不姑息、绝不放过。
He said that in the course of the investigation, no matter whether the hotel was built, renovated, managed or supervised, or every link recommended as a centralized health observation point, violations, dereliction of duty, and individuals, including public officials, would not be tolerated or spared.
但有关本次事故的调查处理权限，很快就脱离了泉州市的层级，上收给了国务院成立的该事故调查组。
But the authority to investigate and deal with the accident was quickly removed from Quanzhou City and handed over to the accident investigation team set up by the State Council.
3月12日，应急管理部安全基础司司长裴文田回应媒体称：“初步调查情况显示，这是一起安全生产责任事故。
"Preliminary investigations have shown that this is a workplace safety accident," Pei Wentian, director of the Security and Basic Division of the Ministry of Emergency Management, told reporters on March 12.
这个酒店违法建设，多次违规改建，暴露出地方有关方面安全生产监管责任不落实，长期造成安全风险隐患的漏洞和盲区。
The illegal construction of this hotel, repeated irregular reconstruction, exposed local parties responsible for the supervision of production safety not to implement, long-term security risks hidden loopholes and blind areas.
”裴文田表示，依据生产安全事故报告和调查处理条例有关规定，国务院决定成立福建省泉州市欣佳酒店“3·7”坍塌事故调查组，并开展事故调查工作，迅速查明原因，严格依法依规追究事故责任人相关责任，包括法律责任。
The State Council has decided to set up the investigation team for the March 7 collapse of the Xinjia Hotel Quanzhou City, Fujian Province, in accordance with relevant regulations on production safety incident reporting and handling, and to conduct an investigation into the accident to find out the cause quickly and investigate the cause.
3月10日晚23时，5位戴蓝色头盔的工作人员进入救援现场，用钢卷尺及游标卡尺测量欣佳酒店前侧的7根H型钢支柱的基本参数。
At 2300 hours on the night of 10 March, five staff members wearing blue helmets entered the rescue site and measured the basic parameters of seven H-beams on the front side of the Xinjia Hotel with a steel tape measure and a vernier caliper.
有多年钢构建筑经验的专业人士称，此钢构的型号为350毫米。
According to professionals with years of experience in steel construction, the steel frame is 350 mm in size.
此前另一些媒体称该钢构的规格为600毫米，这一规格与图中测量人物的手的比例关系不符。
Other media have previously described the steel as 600 mm in size, a specification that does not match the scale of the figure's hand.
《等深线》记者 程维 摄影重庆市某著名设计院一位不愿具名的结构工程师3月11日称，钢筋混凝土的框架结构均布荷载（包括结构自重、隔墙、家具等装修荷载）大约为每平方米1.1吨至1.4吨，钢结构的均布荷载会比钢筋混凝土框架结构的小。
"Bathymetric Line" reporter Cheng Wei photography of a well-known Chongqing Institute of Structural Engineers on the 11 March said that the reinforced concrete frame structure of uniform load (including structural load, wall, furniture, etc.) is about 1.1 to 1.4 tons per square meter, steel structure will be less distributed than reinforced concrete frame structure.
他强调，荷载的重量大小，并不能作为判断坍塌的依据，因为在建筑结构设计中，即使再大的重量，只要按照设计规范、施工规范设计、建造，造出的建筑都是安全的、不会坍塌的。
He stressed that the weight of the load could not be used as a basis for judging the collapse, because in the design of the building, no matter how large the weight, as long as the design code, construction code design, construction, the construction of the building is safe, will not collapse.
有媒体报道称，有林姓经理称该楼最近在酒店的另外一侧修地基。
According to media reports, Lin said the building had recently been built on the other side of the hotel.
上述结构工程师3月11日认为，如果设计、建造、材质及改装是合规的话，该“修地基”的行为，可能才是导致该楼坍塌的原因。
If the design, construction, materials and modifications were in order, the "foundation repair" might have caused the building to collapse, the structural engineer said on March 11.
至3月12日，应急管理部安全基础司及泉州市应急救援工作领导小组均已确认“这个酒店违法建设，多次违规改建”这一事实。
By March 12, both the Department of Emergency Management's Security Foundation and the Quanzhou City Emergency Relief Leading Group had confirmed that the hotel had been illegally constructed and had repeatedly been illegally rebuilt.
来自当地村民的信息称，本次垮塌前，底楼的装修，“敲掉了承重墙”，成为导致该楼垮塌的诱因。
Information from local villagers said that before the collapse, the floor of the renovation, "knocked off the load-bearing wall," a cause of the collapse of the building.
因时间及无法联系欣佳酒店的第二次改装的单位及负责人、工人，暂无法获得有关该酒店的第二次装修、改装，与该楼坍塌的关联。
Due to time and the inability to contact the second modification of Yan Ka Hotel, the owner and workers are temporarily unable to obtain information about the hotel's second renovation, modification and connection with the collapse of the building.
一位参与本次救援的当地建筑公司工人称，按道理讲，钢结构通常是不会考虑承重墙问题的，后来里面加建了那么多层酒店，增加了那么多重量，肯定会有新增承重考虑及结构上的加固的，不然谁都不敢贸然去建几层楼在钢架子上。
A local construction company worker involved in the rescue said that, logically, steel structures would not normally consider load-bearing walls, and that the addition of so many layers of hotels would have added so much weight that no one would dare venture to build a few floors on steel shelves.
但是，大楼装修投用后，后面装修的人不一定知道那就是不能动的承重墙，老板说敲掉把空间打大一点，就敲了。
However, after the renovation of the building, the back decoration people do not necessarily know that it is immovable load-bearing walls, the boss said to knock off a bit larger space, knocked.
但他随即表示，这都只是他的个人猜测，暂无实证支撑。
But he immediately said that this is only his personal guess, there is no empirical support.
有媒体调查显示，承担改装欣佳酒店的施工单位，资质存疑。
Media survey showed that the undertaking of the renovation of Xinjia hotel construction units, the qualifications of the doubts.
此外媒体称，欣佳酒店坍塌前4分钟，有施工工人致电给杨金锵，称“有支柱变形”，这一信息的前提是，该楼的1楼正在进行装修施工。
In addition, media said that four minutes before the collapse of the Xin Jia Hotel, construction workers called Yang Jinqiang, saying "there is deformation of the pillars," a message premised on the building being renovated on the first floor.
《等深线》记者未能在当地住建局的网站上，查询到有关该楼的建设许可证、施工许可证，以及此后的大规模改装的审批信息。
The "Bathymetric Line" reporter could not obtain approval information on the construction permit, construction permit and subsequent large-scale conversion of the building on the URA's website.
一位网友提供的视频显示，2013年时，该楼的框架图。
A netizen provided a video showing the frame of the building in 2013.
这是目前可从公开信息中找到的最直观、最完整的该楼结构图。
This is the most intuitive and complete structure of the building that can be found from open information at present.
图中显示，该楼的前侧（图左）有7根H型钢支柱，两侧各为4根H型钢支柱。
The front of the building (left) is shown with seven H-beams, each flanked by four H-beams.
（注：此图系对原视频中做图像加强处理而成）《等深线》记者 程维 制图据一位网友发布在其某视频号上的由3张图片构成的短视频显示，该楼最初只有3层，前有等距离分列的7根H型钢立柱，将该楼的前立面（南侧）平均分割为6个等份，且这一基本建成的钢架结构建筑，除东西侧的立柱为各4根（分布含整个建筑4个角的立柱）外，其余南北向立柱均为3根。
According to a short video of three images by a netizen posted on one of its video numbers, the building initially had only three floors, with seven H-shaped columns separated by equal distance, dividing the front facade (south side) into four equal parts.
每层楼均如此。
Every floor is the same.
这一结构与此前卫星地图中的地基相对应：该建筑前侧（靠南）的跨度为15米左右，占南北跨度20米的三分之二。
This structure corresponds to the ground in the previous satellite map: the front side of the building (to the south) spans about 15 metres, two thirds of the 20 metres north-south span.
该2013年拍摄的照片还显示，此建筑的原第1层和第3层，靠前侧的中间5根立柱H型钢，所支撑的都是15米跨度的荷载——这也在一定程度上解释了为何该建筑在坍塌时，系向前（南）一点不歪地正向坍塌。
Photographs taken in 2013 also show the former first and third floors of the building, with five columns of H-beam in the front, supporting loads of 15 metres in span - which partly explains why the building collapsed forward (south).
该网友的照片还显示，这个3层钢铁怪物，在3层建筑楼板及天花板安装好后，居然没有设计上下楼梯。
Photos of the netizen also showed that the three-story steel monster, in the three-storey building slab and ceiling installation, did not design the staircase.
邓维明3月12日看了该视频后称：“这只是一个普通的厂房结构。
"It's just a normal plant structure," Deng said after watching the video on March 12.
”他说，如果内建酒店达到3000多吨，即使使用或增加了三角形结构（记者注：此处指所相邻3根钢构之间的连接，均为三角形，该建筑全为不稳定的四边形连接方式），现有H型立柱也无法承受内部增建4层酒店的重量。
If a built-in hotel reaches more than 3,000 tonnes, even if a triangular structure is used or added, he said. (Note: This refers to the connection between three adjacent steel structures, which are all triangular in nature, and the existing H-pillar would not be able to support the construction of four additional floors in-house.
据杨金锵所在村的几位村民称，杨金锵用于建该楼的土地，20多年前原系养羊的地方，后来杨金锵承包用作种植果树。
Yang Jinqiang, according to several villagers in his village, was used to build the building's land, where he grew sheep more than 20 years ago and was later contracted to grow fruit trees.
不过果树没种多久，就推掉做了一段时间的沙场及堆码场。
But the trees did not plant for long before they pushed away the yards and yards that had been built for some time.
此间，2012年前后，附近某大型楼盘建成。
Here, around 2012, the construction of a large building nearby.
网友公布的照片显示，前侧大致18米大跨度的横梁为高度是立柱一倍的H型钢。
Photos published by netizens show that the front side about 18 meters long span of beams for the height of the column double H-beam.
初始结构只有3层。
The initial structure has only three layers.
业内人士一看该图，脱口而出：“这只是一个普通的厂房结构，无法巨量承重的！” （注：此图系在原视频中做图像加强处理而成）《等深线》记者 程维 制图几位村民称，那块集体用地究竟卖没卖给杨金锵，怎么卖的，卖成多少钱，村里也从没公布过。
"This is just a normal factory structure, can not be loaded with large amount of image!" Several villagers said the collective land sold not to Yang Jinqiang, how to sell, how much money sold, the village has never published.
部分村民直指杨金锵花钱搞定了该村及所在市的相关负责人，最终让这一问题重重的项目得以建成，并获得建设、消防、工商，以及可能的土地使用证、产权证等一系列手续。
Some villagers point out that Yang Jinqiang spent money to get the village and the city's relevant officials, eventually allowing this problematic project to be completed, construction, fire, industry and commerce, as well as possible land-use certificates, title certificates, and a series of other procedures.
不过，这些来自村民的信息，暂未获得当地村委会及相关部门的证实。
However, this information from the villagers, has not been confirmed by the local village council and related departments.
3月14日下午，在杨金锵的豪华别墅内，几位警员正在搜查相应证据，并拒绝记者在该楼内滞留。
On the afternoon of March 14, in Yang Jinqiang's luxury villa, several police officers were searching for evidence and refusing to allow journalists to stay in the building.
杨金锵所在社区（村委会）的工作人员3月14日下午称，该村的村委书记杨金伟及村主任陈志勇在垮塌现场对面的救援现场指挥部。
Yang Jinqiang's community (village committee) staff said on the afternoon of March 14, village party secretary Yang Jinwei and village director Chen Zhiyong at the scene of the collapse across the rescue site headquarters.
但该2人并未在此，因此暂无法确认该事故地块的用地手续等情况。
However, the two people are not here, so it is not possible to confirm the accident plot of land procedures, etc.
（编辑：郝成 校对：颜京宁）推荐阅读点击大图|牛蛙、竹鼠、食用蛇……这些野味，还能吃吗？点击大图|成立4年5亿人参与 现象级互联网公益项目究竟如何诞生？。
(Editor: Hao Cheng, proofread by Jing Ning) Refer to Rana, Bamboo and Serpent... Can these game foods still be eaten? How did 500 million people participate in Phenomenon-level Internet public goods over the past four years?
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
泉州楼祸。
Quanzhou disaster.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "中国经营报";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "泉州楼祸";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Quanzhou & quot;;
var msg_desc = "中国经营报 chinabusinessjournal";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Chinabusinessjournal & quot;;; China Business Newspaper.
title: '牛蛙、竹鼠、食用蛇……这些野味，还能吃吗？',。
Rana, bamboo rat, edible snake... are these game foods still available? & amp; apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '中国经营报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '成立4年5亿人参与 现象级互联网公益项目究竟如何诞生？',。
& nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '中国经营报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="中国经营报";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
