牛蛙、竹鼠、食用蛇……这些野味，还能吃吗？。
bullfrog, bamboo rat, edible snake... these game, still can eat?
中国经营报                      。
China Business News.
中国经营报。
China Business News.
与中国企业同步成长，对话商业领袖，传播商业理想，服务商业人群，《中国经营报》掌控中国商界绝对话语权。
Growing in step with Chinese companies, dialogue with business leaders, spreading business ideals, serving the business community, The China Business Administration controls the absolute voice of the Chinese business community.
。
.
The following article comes from 我们来补课。
Let's make up the lessons.
Author 中经补课委员会。
Authored by the Complementary School Board.
我们来补课。
Let's make it up.
成人版十万个为什么，重拾你对世界的好奇心。
Adults version 100,000 Why, to regain your curiosity about the world.
新冠肺炎疫情的暴发，再一次让人们开始重视滥食野味可能会带来的致命风险。
The outbreak of the New Crown Pneumonia has once again drawn attention to the potentially fatal risks associated with the indiscriminate consumption of game.
如今，不只人们的安全意识不断提高，从国家到各地政府也都在尽快完善野生动物管理相关的法律法规，野生动物“禁食令”也是层出不穷。
Today, not only is people's awareness of security growing, but governments from all over the world are improving wildlife management laws and regulations as quickly as possible.
不过，大家目前仍有不少疑惑：如何分辨野生动物？野生动物是不是一律不可食用？疫情结束后，牛蛙、甲鱼、食用蛇……还能吃吗？放心，牛蛙、甲鱼没有被禁首先，先给各位“担忧”许久的“吃货”们吃个定心丸，你们心心念念的牛蛙没有被禁，以后还是能吃到。
However, there are still many doubts: how to distinguish between wild animals? Wild animals are not all edible? After the outbreak, bullfrogs, turtles, edible snakes... Can you still eat? Don't worry about bullfrogs and turtles.
在3月5日召开的国务院联防联控机制新闻发布会上，农业农村部渔业渔政管理局局长张显良表示，包括中华鳖、乌龟在内的绝大多数养殖龟类，以及蛙类中的牛蛙、美国青蛙两个引进种可以养殖食用。
At a press conference of the State Council's Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism on March 5, Zhang Xianliang, director of the Fisheries and Fisheries Administration of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, said the majority of farmed turtles, including Chinese turtles and tortoises, as well as frogs from frogs and frogs from the United States, could be raised for food.
牛蛙，又名美国水蛙，原产于北美洲和墨西哥等地，是一种大型食用蛙。
The bullfrog, also known as the American Water Frog, native to North America and Mexico, is a large edible frog.
牛蛙在我国的餐饮市场上存在已久，并不算什么新鲜品种，但真正火爆起来也只是近几年的事。
bullfrogs have long existed in China's catering market and are nothing new, but the real boom has only happened in recent years.
美团联合餐饮经管自媒体“餐饮老板内参”共同发布的《中国餐饮报告2018》中显示，当年，餐饮业在品类方面最显著的特征是单品餐饮爆发式增长，比如以牛蛙、小龙虾、酸菜鱼等作为招牌的单品餐厅越来越多。
In 2018, the catering industry's most prominent category was the explosive growth of single-serving meals, with more and more specialty restaurants featuring bullfrogs, crayfish and pickled fish, according to the 2018 edition of the Chinese Food and Beverage Report 2018.
“好奇心日报”还曾援引美团点评数据报道，截止到2018年2月，全国牛蛙特色餐厅数量超过2.2万家，自2018年往前推算的近三年内，全国牛蛙特色餐厅保有量增长率均在10%左右。
Curiosity Daily also quoted US tabloid commentary data reporting that by February 2018, the number of bullfrog specialty restaurants nationwide had exceeded 22,000, and that the growth rate of bullfrog specialty restaurants nationwide had been around 10 per cent over the past three years since 2018.
最近两年，牛蛙更是越来越火，大有挑战小龙虾“网红”地位的趋势。
In the past two years, bullfrogs have become more and more popular, challenging their status as net-red crayfish.
从百度指数对比中我们可以发现，虽然牛蛙的“呼声”看似没有小龙虾高，但与具有明显季节性特征的小龙虾相比，网友对于牛蛙的关注总体来说相对稳定。
A comparison of Baidu's index shows that while bullfrogs may not be as loud as crayfish, netizens' overall interest in bullfrogs is relatively stable compared with that of apparently seasonal crayfish.
如此看来，牛蛙堪称“细水长流”型选手。
In this sense, bullfrogs can be described as "long-running" players.
另据美团《2019春节消费地图》显示，舒芙蕾、脏脏茶、炭火蛙锅是2018年春节期间搜索量最高的三样网红菜。
Shuvlei, dirty tea and charcoal frogs were the top three categories of red vegetables searched during the 2018 Spring Festival, according to the U.S. delegation's 2019 Spring Festival Consumption Map.
不过，由于各地对于野生动物的禁食标准不一，虽然牛蛙和美国青蛙已明确可以食用，但对于其他食用蛙类来说，前景仍不明朗。
But while bullfrogs and American frogs are clearly edible, the outlook for other frogs remains uncertain, as fasting standards vary from place to place.
近日就有媒体报道称，广东台山的泰国虎纹蛙养殖户，目前正面临能养不能卖的窘境。
Recently there were media reports that Thai tiger frog farmers in Taishan, Guangdong, are now facing the dilemma of being able to raise and not sell.
不过，与陆生野生动物相比，水生野生动物和两栖动物由于与人类亲缘关系较远，相对来说较为安全，所以限制也相对较小。
However, aquatic wildlife and amphibians are also relatively less restrictive than terrestrial wildlife because of their relative distance from humans and their relative safety.
即使是被称为“最严禁食令”的《深圳经济特区全面禁止食用野生动物条例（草案征求意见稿）》（以下简称“深圳野生动物禁食令”）中的“禁止食用”一条里，也未对水生野生动物进行过多的额外规定。
Even the Shenzhen Special Economic Zone (Shenzhen Special Economic Zone) Regulation on the Prohibition of Consumption of Wild Animals (Draft Exposure Draft), known as the "Most Prohibited Food Order," does not contain much additional regulation for aquatic wildlife.
一般情况下，受《野生动物保护法》保护的珍贵、濒危水生野生动物是明确不可食用的。
In general, the valuable and endangered aquatic wildlife protected by the Wild Animals Protection Act is clearly not edible.
除此之外的水生野生动物是否可食用，《野生动物保护法》《渔业法》等相关法律法规都已做出规定。
In addition to whether the aquatic wildlife is edible, the Wildlife Protection Law, the Fisheries Law and other relevant laws and regulations have been made provisions.
陆生野生动物禁食情况复杂由于陆生野生动物与人类的亲缘关系较近，极易发生细菌或病毒传染，因此目前野生动物“禁食令”更主要的还是针对这类物种。
Due to the close relationship between terrestrial wildlife and humans and the high risk of bacterial or viral infections, the current "fast" of wildlife is more targeted at this species.
一般情况下，我们日常生活中经常被用作食材的动物被称为畜禽。
In general, the animals that are often used as food in our daily life are called livestock and poultry.
而除了畜禽之外的，则属于野生动物。
In addition to livestock and poultry, but belong to wild animals.
据农业农村部渔业渔政管理局副局长韩旭在2月27日召开的国务院联防联控机制新闻发布会上的介绍，畜禽主要是指人类为满足肉、蛋、乳、毛皮等需要，经过长期劳动驯化的各种动物。
According to Han Xu, deputy director of the Fisheries and Fisheries Administration of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, at a press conference on February 27 of the State Council's Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism, livestock and poultry refer to animals domesticated through long-term labor to satisfy the needs of meat, eggs, milk and fur.
畜禽和野生动物的区别主要有四点：畜禽通常经过长期人工饲养，并在生产中广泛地应用畜禽的表型和野生动物相比发生了本质变化，有稳定的人工选择经济性状畜禽已经形成稳定的疫病防控体系符合国际惯例简单理解，比如猪、牛、羊，都是我们常规认知中可以吃的食物，在我们的日常生活中很容易购买，也会经常食用。
There are four main differences between livestock and wild animals. Livestock and poultry are usually kept by man for a long time. The phenotype of livestock and poultry has changed substantially compared with that of wild animals.
而蝙蝠、穿山甲等动物，相信大多数人都未必能接触到，也不会轻易尝试。
Bats, pangolins and other animals, I believe that most people do not have access to, nor easy to try.
而对于何为畜禽，深圳野生动物禁食令中则列出了明确范围，其中提到了9种畜禽：猪、牛、羊、驴、兔、鸡、鸭、鹅、鸽。
The Shenzhen Wild Animal Fasting Order lists nine species of animals: pigs, cows, sheep, donkeys, rabbits, chickens, ducks, geese and pigeons.
受法律保护的野生动物明确禁食事实上，《中华人民共和国野生动物保护法》中已明文规定，国家重点保护野生动物是禁止生产、经营以及为食用而非法购买的。
In fact, the Law of the People's Republic of China on the Protection of Wild Animals explicitly stipulates that the state protects wildlife under special state protection by prohibiting the production, marketing and illegal purchase of wildlife for consumption.
比如大家最熟悉的穿山甲，每年我们都能看到大量有关走私穿山甲的新闻。
For example, the most familiar pangolin, we can see a lot of news about the smuggling of pangolin every year.
就在近期，南宁、合肥两地海关缉私局刚刚联合广西公安部门同步行动，打掉了一个穿山甲鳞片走私犯罪团伙，在现场查获走私穿山甲鳞片820公斤。
Just recently, the Anti-smuggling Bureau of Nanning and Hefei jointly operated with Guangxi's public security department to dismantle a pangolin scale smuggling syndicate and seized 820 kg of smuggled pangolin scales at the scene.
如果未被查获，这些鳞片最终会被卖到河南等地的药材市场进行销售。
If not seized, the scales will eventually be sold to markets in Henan and other places.
据悉，一只穿山甲身上约有0.4～0.6千克鳞片，若按此计算，意味着或许已有1300余只穿山甲已作为食材被端上了餐桌。
It is reported that a pangolin body about 0.4 to 0.6 kg scales, this means that if calculated, perhaps more than 1,300 pangolin has been put as food material on the table.
而这还只是冰山一角。
And that is only the tip of the iceberg.
2017年11月，深圳海关曾查获11.9吨穿山甲鳞片，也就是说有近2万只穿山甲已惨遭毒手。
In November 2017, Shenzhen's customs authorities seized 11.9 tons of pangolin scales, meaning nearly 20,000 pangolins had been poisoned.
在频发的走私案背后，则是旺盛的消费需求。
Behind the frequent smuggling cases, there is strong consumer demand.
2017年，华南师范大学生命科学学院的吴诗宝教授在接受媒体记者采访时曾介绍，我国每年大约要消耗30万只穿山甲，其中大约有95%以上来自国外，且绝大部分是非法的。
In 2017, Professor Wu Shibao of the Institute of Life Sciences of South China Normal University told reporters that China consumes about 300,000 pangolins a year, of which about 95 percent come from abroad and most of them are illegal.
而之所以有这么多消费需求，只是因为人们认为穿山甲具有药用价值，可以“治百病”，这是野生动物市场火爆的一大原因。
And so much consumer demand, just because people think pangolin has medicinal value, can "cure all diseases," which is a big reason for the wild animal market boom.
但讽刺的是，野生动物究竟“补”不“补”，目前并没有明确的结论，但它们的身上很有可能携带致命病毒。
But ironically, there is no definitive conclusion as to whether wildlife "supplements" or "supplements," but their bodies are likely to carry the deadly virus.
此前，华南农业大学等团队的研究就提出，穿山甲可能是新型冠状病毒的中间宿主。
Earlier, the team such as South China Agricultural University proposed that pangolin may be the intermediate host of the new coronavirus.
不过这一结论还缺乏决定性证据，尚未得到证实。
This conclusion, however, lacks conclusive evidence and has not yet been substantiated.
而除了寻求“大补”之外，也有人食用野生动物是为了“炫耀”或是出于“猎奇”心理。
In addition to seeking "big tonic", some people eat wild animals to "show off" or out of "curious" psychology.
能被列入保护名单的野生动物，也就意味着稀有、珍贵，价格也自然不菲。
To be included in a conservation list means that wildlife is rare, valuable and naturally expensive.
熊掌一直被认为是“八珍”之一，长久以来都被人们认为是顶级食材，因此熊掌走私活动也较为活跃。
Bear paws have long been regarded as one of the "eight treasures" and have long been considered top food items, so bear paw smuggling is also active.
有相关人士对近年我国海关野生动物走私状况分析发现，2008年～2018年间，中国海关总署官方网站公布的野生动物及其制品非法走私案共390件，其中5.88%的案件与走私虎骨、麝香、熊胆、熊掌相关。
The official website of the General Administration of Customs has published 390 cases of illegal smuggling of wild animals and their products between 2008 and 2018, of which 5.88 percent are related to tiger bones, musk, bear gall and bear paws.
2019年底，黑龙江警方更是破获了一起罕见的大型野生熊掌走私案，共查获214只野生棕熊熊掌。
In late 2019, police in Heilongjiang cracked a rare large wild bear paw smuggling case, seizing 214 wild brown bear paws.
人工养殖的野生动物还能不能吃？事实上，除了受法律保护的濒危、珍贵野生动物之外，还有很多不在法律保护范围内的野生动物，贩卖和食用这类动物似乎并不违法，因此也有不少人利用漏洞谋取利润。
In fact, in addition to the endangered and rare wild animals protected by law, there are many wild animals that are not protected by law. It does not seem illegal to traffic in and eat such animals.
此外，还有些野生动物是允许人工养殖的，但有不少商贩会直接售卖这些动物的野生种群，这就给野生动物管理造成了不少麻烦。
In addition, some wild animals are allowed to be farmed, but many traders sell their wild populations directly, causing problems for wildlife management.
比如肉用蛇。
Like a meat snake.
口味蛇是一道有名的湘菜，长沙的肉用蛇消费市场也相对发达。
Flavor snake is a famous Hunan dish, Changsha's meat consumption market is also relatively developed.
2007年，有媒体援引湖南省野生动植物保护协会统计数据表示，长沙市每天大概要消费1万公斤蛇，而这些蛇中至少有三成是野生的。
In 2007, the Hunan Wildlife Conservation Association was quoted by media as saying that the city consumes about 10,000 kilograms of snakes a day, at least 30 percent of which are wild.
2013年，长沙市野生动植物保护协会会长周灿英在接受媒体记者采访时也曾表示，调查显示，长沙经营蛇的饭店、餐馆、酒楼有近300家，其中持有野生动物经营许可证的餐馆不到120家。
In an interview with media reporters in 2013, Chan-ying Zhou, president of the Changsha Wildlife Conservation Association, also said the survey showed that there were nearly 300 restaurants, restaurants and restaurants in Changsha that handle snakes.
如果按照旺季日均消费35公斤计算，300家餐馆每天就要消费10吨蛇。
Based on an average consumption of 35 kg per day during peak seasons, 300 restaurants consume 10 tons of snakes per day.
而在“吃蛇大省”广东，肉用蛇市场要更加庞大。
And in the "snake-eating province" of Guangdong, the meat snake market is even bigger.
2008年，有文章指出，广州每月的肉用蛇销量可以达到600吨以上。
In 2008, articles pointed out that Guangzhou can sell more than 600 tons of meat snakes a month.
图片来源：寻味顺德而在疫情暴发之后，包括肉用蛇在内，竹鼠、果子狸、野猪等曾经允许人工养殖的野生动物还能不能继续售卖和食用，成了一个未知数。
Source: Quest Shunde and, after the outbreak, whether bamboo rats, beavers, wild boar and other wild animals once allowed to be farmed can continue to be sold and eaten, including meat snakes, is unknown.
深圳野生动物禁食令中就将保护类野生动物和非保护类陆生野生动物以及人工繁育、饲养的陆生野生动物都纳入了禁止食用的范围。
The Shenzhen Wild Animal Fasting Order bans the consumption of protected wild animals and non-protected terrestrial wildlife as well as artificially bred and raised wild animals.
不过，面对复杂的情况，国家层面也在积极制定或完善相关名录，厘清野生动物与畜禽范围。
However, in the face of complex situations, the national level is also actively developing or improving relevant directories to clarify the range of wildlife and livestock.
3月12日，国务院扶贫开发领导小组办公室主任刘永富在新闻发布会上表示，有关部门正在制定详细目录，明确哪些不能养，哪些还可以养。
On March 12, Liu Yongfu, director of the State Council's Leading Group for Poverty Alleviation and Development, said at a news conference that authorities were working on a detailed catalogue of what could not and could not be kept.
策划：中经补课委员会文案：喜庆校对：颜京宁推荐阅读点击大图|去年倒闭近2万家游戏企业？版号新政下，游戏行业又该何去何从？点击大图|成立4年5亿人参与 现象级互联网公益项目究竟如何诞生？。
Planning: Zhongjing committee text: festive reading: Yan Jingning recommended reading last year close to 20, 000 game companies? Where should the gaming industry go under the New Deal? How did 500 million people participate in Phenomenon-Level Internet Public Interest Program?
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
牛蛙、竹鼠、食用蛇……这些野味，还能吃吗？。
bullfrog, bamboo rat, edible snake... these game, still can eat?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "中国经营报";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "牛蛙、竹鼠、食用蛇……这些野味，还能吃吗？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; bullfrog, bamboo rat, food snake... can these game foods be eaten?;
var msg_desc = "中国经营报 chinabusinessjournal";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Chinabusinessjournal & quot;;; China Business Newspaper.
title: '去年倒闭近2万家游戏企业？版号新政下，游戏行业又该何去何从？',。
Running down nearly 20,000 gaming companies last year? Where did the gaming industry take its place under New Deal?
subject_name: '中国经营报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '成立4年5亿人参与 现象级互联网公益项目究竟如何诞生？',。
& nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '中国经营报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="中国经营报";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
