疫情冲击下的全球供应链重组。
Global supply chain restructuring under the impact of the epidemic.
刘裘蒂。
Jude Liu.
中国新闻周刊                      。
China News Weekly.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
这里是《中国新闻周刊》掌门周刊君，影响有影响力的你。
This is the head of China News Weekly magazine, the influence of influential you.
和我一起拨开迷雾，追寻真相，守望时代。
Join me as we move through the fog, seek the truth and keep watch.
。
.
在新冠肺炎疫情彻底平息世界经济重回轨道之后中国有望成为全球供应链多元化的先驱者和实践者3月6日，在缅甸仰光市郊的Shwe Pyi Thar工业区，一名工人坐在一家制衣厂的车间里。
A worker sits in a garment factory in the Shwe Pyi Thar industrial zone on the outskirts of Yangon, Myanmar March 6, after the outbreak of pneumonia has put the world economy back on track.
工人们占据了这家新近关闭的制衣厂，要求支付工资和加班费。
Workers occupied the recently closed garment factory and demanded payment of wages and overtime.
受新冠肺炎疫情影响，来自中国的供应链中断，缅 甸的纺织业受到沉重打击。
The textile industry in Myanmar has been hit hard by the outbreak of new crown pneumonia, which disrupted supply chains from China.
疫情冲击下的全球供应链重组文/刘裘蒂发于2020.3.16总第939期《中国新闻周刊》新冠肺炎疫情刚暴发之际，大多数对于经济影响的分析，都以2002年~2003年的“非典”疫情做起始点来类推，重点关注对中国经济的影响，但是随着最近跨国疫情的扩散，全球供应链中断问题开始剧烈冲击世界股市。
In the wake of the outbreak of Crowne Pneumonia in China Newsweek No. 939, most economic impact analyses focused on the impact on China's economy, but with the recent spread of transnational epidemics, the disruption of global supply chains began to take a severe toll on world stock markets.
其实自2003年以来，中国已从世界第六大经济体跃升为仅次于美国的第二大经济体，国际货币基金组织（IMF）估计，中国为2019年全球经济增长贡献了39％。
Indeed, since 2003, China has grown from being the world's sixth-largest economy to the second largest after the US, with the International Monetary Fund estimating that China contributed 39 per cent to global economic growth in 2019.
根据世贸组织（WTO）的数据，中国在2003年是全球第四位出口国，自2009年以来已经是最大的出口国，连日本和越南等国家都“对中国供应链有很大依赖”。
According to the World Trade Organisation, China was the world's fourth exporter in 2003, already the largest exporter since 2009, with countries such as Japan and Vietnam "heavily dependent on China's supply chain."
近日，《哈佛商业评论》专文探讨新冠肺炎疫情下全球脆弱的供应链。
Harvard Business Review recently featured an article on the fragile global supply chain in the wake of the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic.
在2011年3月日本福岛地震和海啸之后，许多跨国公司都发现了供应链中隐藏的弱点，这些弱点导致收入甚至市值上的损失。
In the aftermath of the Fukushima earthquake and tsunami in Japan in March 2011, many TNCs identified hidden weaknesses in supply chains that led to loss of revenue and even market value.
但令人惊讶的是，尽管大多数公司可以快速评估福岛事件对其直接供应商的影响，但它们对灾区二级和三级供应商的影响却缺乏认识。
But surprisingly, while most companies can quickly assess the impact of Fukushima on their direct suppliers, there is a lack of awareness of the impact on secondary and tertiary suppliers in the affected areas.
因此，当下许多企业必须在九年后重新学习福岛的教训。
As a result, many businesses today must relearn the lessons of Fukushima in nine years.
随着世界各地区许多公司慌乱地确定哪些“隐形”下级供应商（也就是与它们没有直接交易的供应商）位于疫情地区，更凸显了过度集中和不透明的供应链所带来的问题。
As companies from all regions of the world scramble to identify "invisible" lower-level suppliers (that is, suppliers with whom they do not directly trade) in epidemic areas, the problems posed by excessively centralized and opaque supply chains are becoming more acute.
这些即将到来的补救动作势必将导致全球供应链的重组，但这是否意味着大规模撤离中国，从而使中国失去“世界工厂”的桂冠呢？从数据看对供应链的冲击全球最大的商业协作平台Tradeshift支持190个国家的150万家用户公司产业链对接，包括世界500强中的150家企业，每年促成5000亿美元的交易。
These coming remedial actions will inevitably lead to a restructuring of global supply chains, but will that mean a massive withdrawal from China, depriving it of its "world factory" crown? Tradeshift, the world's largest collaborative business platform supporting 1.5 million user companies in 190 countries, including 150 of the world's top 500 companies, has contributed to $500 billion a year.
根据平台上交易量支付数据的分析，由于新冠肺炎抗疫而造成的工厂关闭，在1月和2月之间，使得中国通过其平台处理的国内和国际交易量下降了17％。
According to the analysis of transaction payment data on the platform, plant closures caused by the Newcap Pneumonia epidemic reduced the volume of domestic and international transactions handled by China through its platform by 17 per cent between January and February.
春节前后传统放缓的交易量在整个1月持续下降之后，从2月16日开始的一周内，中国的总体贸易活动下降了56％。
In the week starting Feb. 16, China's overall trade activity fell 56%, after traditionally slowing trading volumes around the Lunar New Year continued to fall throughout January.
中国国内供应链受到格外严峻的冲击，本国企业之间的订单下降了60％，而中国企业与国际公司之间的交易数量下降了50％。
Domestic supply chains have been particularly hard hit, with orders between domestic companies falling by 60 per cent and those between Chinese and international companies dropping by 50 per cent.
Tradeshift首席执行官克里斯蒂安·兰恩（Christian Lanng）表示：“新冠病毒在中国的暴发速度，已经在全球复杂的供应链微妙生态系统中发出了冲击波……随着病毒有可能造成大流行，许多企业发现无法迅速识别、并与替代供应商建立联系，这对生产产生了明显影响。
Christian Lanng, Tradeshift's chief executive, said: "The speed of the outbreak in China has sent shockwaves through the delicate ecosystems of the world's complex supply chains... As the virus has the potential to cause a pandemic, many companies have found it difficult to quickly identify and connect with alternative suppliers, which has had a noticeable impact on production."
”加州大数据公司Resilinc于2010年推出了一个平台，为制造业公司、原材料供应商和零部件供应商之间提供联系网络。
Resilink, the state's largest data company, launched a platform in 2010 to provide a network between manufacturing companies, suppliers of raw materials and parts suppliers.
它的大数据预测了未来几个月可能出现的三个场景：最糟糕的情况（确定有疫苗或有效治疗之前）、中间的情况（与H1N1流感疫情类似，持续3到6个月），以及最好的情况（几周之内解决）。
Its big numbers predict three scenarios over the next few months: the worst-case scenario (before a vaccine or effective treatment is established), the intermediate scenario (similar to the H1N1 pandemic, lasting three to six months), and the best case scenario (resolved within a few weeks).
虽然三种情况下对供应链造成的近期和中期影响各有不同，但在所有情况下，由于全球围堵抗疫措施已启动，加上中国是世界上所有品类商品的制造国，短期内供应链都可能处于“高度中断”状态。
While the immediate and medium-term impact on the supply chain varies in all three cases, in all cases the supply chain is likely to be "highly disrupted" in the short term, owing to the initiation of global containment measures and the fact that China is a manufacturer of all commodities in the world.
Resilinc的数据显示，新冠肺炎的疫情已导致制造业活动的放缓，主要体现在零部件短缺、劳动力中断、交通中断、无法交付给客户以及因为以上所有因素而导致总产能未被充分利用，更重要的是，目前到3月中旬，厂商正严重依赖库存和瓶颈零件的配给供应。
According to Resilink, the outbreak has slowed manufacturing activity, mainly because of a shortage of spare parts, disruption of labor, disruption of transportation, inability to deliver to customers, and underutilization of total capacity due to all of these factors. More importantly, manufacturers are now heavily dependent on rationing supplies of stocks and bottleneck parts until mid-March.
从另一个角度来量化可能受到威胁的中国供应链和制造业：根据中国美国商会在 2月17日~20日对会员进行的问卷调查，近三分之一的受访者表示，他们面临着成本增加和收入大幅下降的挑战。
Another way to quantify China's potentially threatened supply chains and manufacturing: Nearly one-third of respondents to a survey conducted by the China-US Chamber of Commerce on February 17-20 said they faced the challenge of rising costs and sharply falling incomes.
将近一半的受访者预计，如果业务不能在4月底之前恢复正常，那么2020年在中国的收入将会减少；而接近五分之一的人说，如果疫情持续到8月底，2020年的收入将下降50％以上。
Nearly half of the respondents expect revenues in China to fall by 2020 if business doesn't get back to normal by the end of April, while nearly a fifth say revenues will fall by more than 50 per cent in 2020 if the epidemic continues until the end of August.
实际上，一半受访者认为，评估疫情对计划中的投资的影响为时过早，而四分之一的受访者计划保持现有的投资计划。
In fact, half of the respondents felt that it was too early to assess the impact of the epidemic on planned investments, while a quarter planned to maintain existing investment plans.
上海美国商会在2月11日~14 日对位于长三角的109个美国制造业公司进行的调查结果显示，三分之一的公司计划在工厂无法开业的情况下将业务迁出中国。
A survey of 109 U.S. manufacturing companies in the Yangtze River Delta on Feb. 11-14 showed that one-third of companies plan to move out of China if their factories fail to open.
对很多外国公司而言，3月底是替换供应源的分水岭。
For many foreign companies, the end of March was a watershed in replacing supply sources.
也就是说，如果在此之前不能复工，将供应链转到中国境外可能不可避免。
That is, if work cannot resume before then, shifting the supply chain beyond China's borders may be inevitable.
这主要还是因为之前中美贸易战的关税影响所做的铺垫。
This is largely because of the tariff implications of the previous Sino-American trade war.
根据中国美国商会2019年5月对会员企业进行的关税影响调查，为了应对关税的影响，35.3％的受访者采用“在中国，为中国生产”的策略，或33.2％推迟和取消投资决定，并且约39.7％的受访者正在考虑将制造工厂迁至中国境外。
According to a May 2019 tariff impact survey of member enterprises by the Chinese American Chamber of Commerce, 35.3 per cent of respondents used the "Make in China, Make for China" strategy, or 33.2 per cent deferred and cancelled investment decisions, and about 39.7 per cent were considering relocating manufacturing plants outside China.
可以说，病毒危机可能把接近40%基于关税问题、已经有外移意向的美国企业推向行动。
Arguably, the virus crisis could push close to 40% of US companies with customs-based intentions to move.
加上前述上海美国商会调查的结果显示，三分之一的会员公司计划在工厂无法开业的情况下将业务迁出中国。
Together with the results of the aforementioned survey by the American Chamber of Commerce in Shanghai, one-third of member companies plan to move out of China if factories fail to open.
这意味着如果供应链中断的情况持续下去，至少30％到40％的在华美国企业可能考虑把部分业务迁出中国。
That means that if supply chain disruptions persist, at least 30% to 40% of U.S. companies in China could consider moving some of their businesses out of China.
供应链中断已超越中国随着疫情向世界扩展，供应链的问题也越发复杂。
Supply chain disruption has overtaken China As the epidemic spreads to the world, supply chain problems have become more complex.
Resilinc在3月4日发布的数据显示，这场危机的严重程度不仅限于中国境内，事实上已经向其他亚洲和欧洲国家延烧。
According to data released March 4 by Resilink, the crisis is not confined to China, but has in fact spread to other Asian and European countries.
从产业划分来看，消费品领域已经全面可以观察到了成品库存缓冲区减少、下单到交货之间的期间推迟、订单交货延迟、供应商按配给供货、生产线停摆、为客户配给产量、收入损失等种种现象。
In terms of industry breakdown, the reduction of buffer zones in finished goods stocks, delays between ordering and delivery, delays in the delivery of orders, supplier deliveries based on rationing, production line stoppages, customer rationing and loss of revenue have been fully observed in the area of consumer goods.
在高科技与消费电子产品、汽车、工业、重型机械、半导体和医疗设备等领域，上述现象也已大面积出现。
These phenomena are also widespread in areas such as high-tech and consumer electronics, automobiles, industry, heavy machinery, semiconductors and medical equipment.
如果检疫造成的停工持续到3月底，所有这些产业都可能经历前述的这些供应链失调状态。
All these industries are likely to experience these supply chain disorders if quarantine-induced work stoppages continue until the end of March.
Resilinc首席执行官本迪亚·瓦基尔（Bindiya Vakil）在接受《中国新闻周刊》采访时表示，由于供应链的性质不同，高科技和生命科学等更专业的行业面临最大风险。
In an interview with China News Weekly, Resilink's chief executive, Bindiya Vakil, said more specialized industries such as high-tech and life sciences were at greatest risk because of the different nature of supply chains.
另外值得观察的是制造业对亚洲的依赖。
It is also worth observing the dependence of manufacturing on Asia.
全球制造业产出的50％以上来自亚洲，2019年亚洲制造业GDP超过7.1万亿美元，其中的三大支柱是分别中国（4.1万亿美元，占亚洲的58.3％）；日本（1万亿美元，14.7％）；和韩国（5000亿美元，6.3％）。
More than 50 per cent of global manufacturing output comes from Asia, where manufacturing GDP exceeded $7.1 trillion in 2019, the three pillars of which are China ($4.1 trillion, or 58.3 per cent of Asia); Japan ($1 trillion, 14.7 per cent); and Korea ($500 billion, 6.3 per cent).
在3月初，中国有36000种以上的零部件、9000家以上的工厂、1500个以上独特的一级/次级供应商受到疫情影响。
At the beginning of March, China had more than 36,000 spare parts, 9,000 factories and more than 1,500 unique primary / secondary suppliers affected by the epidemic.
而韩国、日本和意大利，分别都有数以千计的零部件、工厂和独特的一级/次级供应商受到影响。
In South Korea, Japan and Italy, thousands of spare parts, factories and unique primary / secondary suppliers were affected.
整体而言，到3月2日为止，中国大陆有10.8％的供应商面临中断、韩国有11.2％、日本估计可能有5％~10％、而台湾地区估计可能有6％~9％。
Overall, by March 2, 10.8 percent of suppliers in mainland China faced disruption, 11.2 percent in South Korea, an estimated 5 to 10 percent in Japan, and an estimated 6 to 9 percent in Taiwan.
这些Resilinc数据显示，供应链的冲击远远超出中国，并且已在亚洲和欧洲不同国家和地区出现。
These data show that supply chain shocks are far greater than in China and are already occurring in different countries and regions of Asia and Europe.
这些风险，由于员工无法上班或政府旅行限制造成的利润损失，通常不会触发财产保险的理赔。
These risks, due to the loss of profits due to staff being unable to report to work or government travel restrictions, do not normally trigger claims for property insurance.
业务中断险通常限于对指定客户或供应商的财产进行直接的物资损害赔偿，由于冠状病毒并未对财产造成物质上的损害，因此通常不会引发此类保险对经济损失的赔偿。
Business interruption insurance is usually limited to the direct material damage to the property of the designated customer or supplier. Since the coronavirus does not cause material damage to the property, it usually does not give rise to compensation for the economic loss caused by such insurance.
贸易中断险涵盖了因贸易流量中断而导致的收入损失、不可预见的成本和合同罚款。
Trade interruption insurance covers loss of revenue, unforeseen costs and contractual penalties resulting from the interruption of trade flows.
由于通常此类保险并不要求对货物或其运输造成直接的物资损失，或许可以为企业提供一定程度的保护。
Since such insurance typically does not require direct material damage to the goods or their transport, it may provide a measure of protection for the enterprise.
但是企业不但需要表面上以“买保险”来防止经济上的损失，更要借多元化、数字化管理供应链来以无形的方式“买保险”。
But companies not only need to ostensibly "buy insurance" to prevent economic losses, but also to "buy insurance" in an intangible way by diversifying and digitally managing supply chains.
中美两国可能的应对策略如果供应链的中断造成类似2007年~2008年金融危机所导致的股市动荡或崩盘，美国监管机构如证券交易委员会有可能要求上市公司，在未来强制性地披露其供应链集中程度的信息。
POSSIBLE STRATEGIES FOR THE UNITED STATES AND CHINA If supply-chain disruptions cause stock-market volatility or crashes like those caused by the 2007-2008 financial crisis, US regulators, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission, may require listed companies to compulsorily disclose information about their supply-chain concentration in the future.
美国政府虽然可能要求某些具有国家安全和医疗卫生意义的产业将供应链和生产链迁回国内，但是它的资本主义体系将会阻止联邦政府用硬性规定迫使更多层面的企业回国，更多可能是通过税务和其他政策优惠来吸引企业回归。
While the US government may require certain industries of national security and health significance to move supply and production chains back home, its capitalist system will prevent the federal government from imposing hard rules to force more multi-tiered businesses to return home, more likely through tax and other preferential policies.
美国商务部长威尔伯·罗斯在1月30日发表了不被人待见的评论，表示新冠病毒虽然不幸，但将导致美国公司重新考虑它们的全球供应链，并最终“帮助加速”就业岗位回归美国。
In an unwelcome comment on January 30, US Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said the new cap virus, while unfortunate, would lead US companies to rethink their global supply chains and eventually "help accelerate" the return of jobs to the US.
事实上，中国美国商会在2019年5月对会员企业进行的关税影响调查显示，对于那些将制造业从中国转出的企业，东南亚（24.7％）和墨西哥（10.5％）是它们的首选，少于6％的受访者表示将回归“美国制造”。
Indeed, a tariff impact survey of member companies conducted by the China-US Chamber of Commerce in May 2019 showed that South-East Asia (24.7 per cent) and Mexico (10.5 per cent) were their first choices, while less than 6 per cent said they would return to "Made in the United States."
同时也有评论家认为，大量供应链将从中国撤到越南是一种谬论，部分原因是未能认识到越南（或者南亚、东南亚任何其他发展中经济体）与中国之间规模的巨大差异，这阻碍了越南等国的吸收能力。
Critics also argue that it would be a fallacy to withdraw large supply chains from China to Vietnam, in part because of a failure to recognize the huge differences in size between Vietnam (or any other developing economy in South and South-East Asia) and China, which hampers the absorptive capacity of countries like Vietnam.
过去二十多年来，中国已成为一个庞大且日趋富裕的消费市场，这说明了为何制造业投资不断流入中国，中国占全球制造业产值的35％。
Over the past two decades, China has become a large and increasingly affluent consumer market, which explains why manufacturing investment continues to flow to China, which accounts for 35 per cent of global manufacturing output.
根据世界银行的数据，尽管中国仅占全球家庭消费的10％，但在2010年至2016年间却是全球家庭消费增长38％的来源，这也促成了所谓“在中国，为中国生产”的现象。
According to the World Bank, while China accounts for only 10 per cent of global household consumption, it was the source of a 38 per cent increase in global household consumption between 2010 and 2016, contributing to the so-called "make in China, for China" phenomenon.
这将有助于保持至少很大部分生产线留在中国。
This will help keep at least a large part of the production line in China.
另外，目前的疫情也暴露了越南和泰国的许多制造业其实仰赖中国供应源的事实，这也是未来跨国企业在全球布局必须考虑的复杂性。
Moreover, the current epidemic has exposed the fact that many manufacturing industries in Vietnam and Thailand are actually dependent on Chinese sources of supply, a complexity that future multinational enterprises must consider in their global distribution.
另外，这些替代国家自身的架构是否健全？如果疫情在当地暴发（新加坡的经历显示，气候可能不是疫情扩散与否的决定性因素），它们的医疗系统是否有足够资源来应付？也是值得考虑的问题。
And are these alternative countries "own structures sound? If the outbreak is local (as Singapore's experience shows, climate may not be a decisive factor in the spread of the epidemic), is it worth considering whether their health-care systems have sufficient resources to cope?
Resilinc首席执行官瓦基尔表示，应对新冠病毒并没有理由使供应链大规模撤离中国，因为这将涉及知识、资本、基础设施和劳动力的转移。
Resilink's chief executive said there was no reason to move the supply chain out of China on a large scale because it would involve the transfer of knowledge, capital, infrastructure and labour.
即使是在中国的供应商，也可以依赖在亚洲多个国家（或地区）运营的许多次级供应商。
Even suppliers based in China can rely on a number of sub-suppliers operating in several countries (or regions) in Asia.
将运营转移到另一个地方必须建立新的供应商关系，必须开发新的物流和运输线，以及必须遵守新的法规，这将增加更多的复杂性和挑战。
Transferring operations to another location requires the establishment of new supplier relationships, the development of new logistics and transport routes and the need to comply with new regulations, which will add further complexity and challenges.
瓦基尔说，“开发新供应链可能需要很长时间，迁往新地点可能需要更多的劳动力基础设施，而中国已经大规模支持了这一点。
"Developing new supply chains can take a long time, and moving to a new location may require more labour infrastructure, which China has already supported on a large scale," Wakeir said.
今天很难在他地复制中国制造业所做的一切。
It is difficult today to replicate elsewhere what Chinese manufacturing is doing.
将业务转移到其他地方的成本也将成倍增加，这既包括用于转移或购买新制造设备的资本成本，也包括较高的人工成本，况且许多替代供应商在这一点上承担新制造业务的能力可能有限。
The cost of moving operations elsewhere will also multiply, both in terms of the capital cost of transferring or purchasing new manufacturing equipment and the higher labour costs, in addition to the fact that many alternative suppliers may have limited capacity to undertake new manufacturing operations on this point.
”在中国方面，商务部已经出台了稳外贸和稳外资的政策，并且重申全力执行《外商投资法》。
For its part, the Ministry of Commerce has unveiled a policy of stabilizing foreign trade and foreign investment and has reaffirmed its full commitment to the Foreign Investment Law.
最理想的状况是，即使有不少外国制造业蠢蠢欲动，但这会倒逼中国的产业转型。
Ideally, even if there were a lot of foreign manufacturing going on, it would force China's industrial transformation.
长期来讲，中国应该还是世界的制造大国，只是“世界工厂”的桂冠不应该是执着的重点，因为中国的终极目标不是仅仅成为世界的生产者或是原料国，而是成为世界的发明中心和创新产业重镇。
In the long run, China should remain the world's manufacturing powerhouse, but the crown of the "workshop of the world" should not be a focus, because China's ultimate goal is not simply to become the world's producer or raw material, but the world's center of invention and innovation.
中国企业及商业组织可以积极参与各领域的供应链重组以及分散风险的讨论与规划，不必被动地把全球供应链多元化视为一个损害中国利益的问题，因为在中国的跨国企业也会面对类似的挑战，包括在中国境内如何在区域分配上规避风险。
Chinese companies and business organizations can actively participate in the restructuring of supply chains and in the discussion and planning of risk diversification in all areas, rather than passively viewing the diversification of global supply chains as an issue that harms China's interests, as multinational enterprises in China face similar challenges, including how to avoid risks in regional distribution within China.
在新冠肺炎疫情彻底平息、世界经济重回轨道之后，中国有望成为全球供应链多元化的先驱者和实践者。
With the new crown pneumonia outbreak finally over and the world economy back on track, China is poised to become a pioneer and practitioner of global supply-chain diversification.
（作者系哥伦比亚大学法学博士，耶鲁大学文学硕士，曾为华尔街律师事务所合伙人）值班编辑：庄梦蕾推荐阅读▼疯狂的野味市场：疫情期间顶风作案，打科研旗号盗猎“围猎者”高乃则：曾为陕西首富，市长刚上任他就送了50万当贺礼特朗普宣布美国进入紧急状态，转向积极防疫，检测就在商场门口。
(The writer is a PhD in law from Columbia University, a MA in literature from Yale University, and a former partner in a Wall Street law firm) .John Farrell, a hunter during the outbreak, worked as a hunter during the outbreak: He was the richest man in Shaanxi Province.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情冲击下的全球供应链重组。
Global supply chain restructuring under the impact of the epidemic.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "中国新闻周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "疫情冲击下的全球供应链重组";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; under the impact of the epidemic.
var msg_desc = "在新冠肺炎疫情彻底平息、世界经济重回轨道之后，中国有望成为全球供应链多元化的先驱者和实践者";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; China is poised to be a pioneer and practitioner of global supply chain diversification after the SARS epidemic has completely subsided and the world economy is back on track.
title: '疯狂的野味市场：疫情期间顶风作案，打科研旗号盗猎',。
Rage venison: Crazy venison market: Hit the wind and hunt and hunt at S & amp; D during the epidemic.
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '疯狂的野味市场：疫情期间顶风作案，打科研旗号盗猎',。
Rage venison: Crazy venison market: Hit the wind and hunt and hunt at S & amp; D during the epidemic.
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '“围猎者”高乃则：曾为陕西首富，市长刚上任他就送了50万当贺礼',。
Mr Gao was once the richest man in Shaanxi province and at least half a million pounds as soon as the mayor took office.
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '“围猎者”高乃则：曾为陕西首富，市长刚上任他就送了50万当贺礼',。
Mr Gao was once the richest man in Shaanxi province and at least half a million pounds as soon as the mayor took office.
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '美国的新冠抗疫：从紧张到恐慌的距离有多远？',。
& nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '特朗普宣布美国进入紧急状态，转向积极防疫，检测就在商场门口',。
Trump declared a state of emergency and moved to active immunization at AT & amp; apos; s door.
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="中国新闻周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by China News & quot;
