卫健委专家组成员王广发出院了，回答了我们8个问题。
Wei health committee expert group member Wang Guangfa discharged from hospital, answered our 8 questions.
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
1月30日，曾患新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎的北京大学第一医院呼吸和危重症医学科主任王广发在北京地坛医院治愈出院。
Wang Guangfa, director of respiratory and critical medicine at Peking University Hospital No. 1, was discharged from Beijing Ditan Hospital on January 30 after suffering from pneumonia related to a new coronavirus.
他是北京市第5名治愈出院的新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎患者。
He is the 5th person in Beijing to be cured of a new coronavirus infection.
新华社发（任超 摄）采访·整理 秦珍子编辑 张国国家卫生健康委专家组成员、北京大学第一医院呼吸和危重症医学科主任王广发，1月8日到1月15日曾随专家组前往武汉工作。
Qin Zhengzi, editor of the expert group of Zhang GuoNational Health Commission and director of respiratory and critical medicine at Peking University Hospital No. 1, Wang Guangfa, travelled with the group to Wuhan from January 8 to January 15.
在1月11日之前，这种疾病被定义为“不明原因的病毒性肺炎”，直至病原体被初步判定为一种新型冠状病毒。
Prior to January 11, the disease was defined as "viral pneumonia of unknown origin" until the pathogen was tentatively identified as a new coronavirus.
1月10日，王广发在接受媒体采访时介绍，整体疫情“可防可控”。
January 10, Wang Guangfa in an interview with the media, the overall epidemic "preventable controllable."
从武汉回到北京几天后，他本人也确诊感染了新型冠状病毒，开始接受隔离治疗，直至1月30日治愈出院。
A few days after returning to Beijing from Wuhan, he himself was diagnosed with the new coronavirus and began receiving isolation treatment until he was cured on January 30.
2月1日，中国青年报·中国青年网记者就公众关心的一些问题采访了他。
On February 1, a reporter from China Youth Daily China Youth Net interviewed him on some issues of public concern.
1.中青报·中青网：您什么时候被派去武汉工作？专家的职责是什么？当时武汉的情况怎么样？王广发：我（1月）8号晚上到武汉，9号就开始工作。
When were you sent to work in Wuhan? What was the responsibility of the experts? What was the situation in Wuhan at that time? Wang Guangfa: I (January) arrived in Wuhan on the evening of 8th, and began to work on 9th.
街上没什么异常，但病人给我触动特别大，因为（临床表现）真的特别像（SARS），也很有特点。
There was nothing unusual on the street, but the patient was particularly touching because [the clinical manifestation] was really like [SARS] and it was very special.
但是对于“人传人”，我们专家组始终是一种困惑状态。
But for "person-to-person", our group of experts has always been a state of confusion.
我是第二批到武汉的专家。
I was the second expert to Wuhan.
大家分成好几个组，任务不同。
They were divided into groups with different tasks.
我在医疗救治组，重点关注病人的救治问题，每天很忙，工作到凌晨三四点钟也是有的。
I was in the medical team, focused on the treatment of patients, very busy every day, working until 3 or 4 a.m.
防控需要多学科共同合作，中央、地方协同配合，有所分工。
Prevention and control need multidisciplinary cooperation, central and local coordination, there is a division of labour.
（在武汉）这8天，武汉的街景没什么变化，大家该干什么干什么。
Wuhan, these 8 days, the street scene of Wuhan has not changed, we should do what.
我估计，那段时间是疫情的一个隐匿的发展时期，从现在看，当时可能已经有社区感染了。
I estimate that this period was a period of hidden development of the epidemic and that, from now on, there may have been a community infection.
其实我们一直保持高度的警惕，只是苦于当时，真的资料不多。
In fact, we have been keeping a high level of vigilance, only suffering at the time, the real information is not much.
我们要讲科学，也不能毫无根据地发出错误的信息。
We want to talk about science, and we cannot send the wrong message without any foundation.
一家医院去年12月肺炎患者较同期增加了17%2.中青报·中青网：你们什么时候判断疫情比较严重了？王广发：我1月16号回北京的时候，就有很明确的判断，疫情可能比较严重了。
When did you judge the outbreak was more serious? Wang Guangfa: When I returned to Beijing on January 16th, I had a very clear judgment that the epidemic might be serious.
主要根据的是（武汉）发热门诊的情况。
Mainly on the basis of the (Wuhan) fever clinic.
当时一到北京，专家组就马上开会。
Upon arrival in Beijing, the Panel met immediately.
我那时还没发烧，也不知道有医务人员感染、人传人的情况。
I didn't have a fever, I didn't know there was a medical infection, human-to-human transmission.
我看到，发热门诊病人很多，有些病人肺部的CT片子，是非常典型的新型冠状病毒肺炎。
I saw that the fever clinic patient many, some patient lung CT picture, is very typical of the new coronavirus pneumonia.
这就说明，当时拥挤在医院的这类病人，数量并不少，但是医院还能够应付。
This means that the number of such patients, who were crowded in the hospital at the time, was not insignificant, but the hospital was able to cope.
这是1月14号、15号我们了解的情况。
This is what we know on January 14th and 15th.
所以我们对有些单位也提建议，一定要做好准备，提前准备，不能让病人都淤积在发热门诊。
So we also make recommendations to some units, be sure to be prepared in advance, can not let the patient silt up in the fever clinic.
有的医院前两天专门给我打电话，说多亏你们的建议，我们医院及时把病人收到隔离病房，没有发生医务人员感染的情况。
Some hospitals called me the other day and said that thanks to your advice, our hospital had taken the patients to the isolation ward in time. There was no case of infection by medical staff.
另外，我当时还得到一个信息，某医院12月份肺炎的发生率较往年同期增加了17%。
In addition, I received information that the incidence of pneumonia in a hospital in December had increased by 17 per cent compared with the same period in previous years.
当时还没有公布疫情，所以这不是疫情公布带来的影响。
The outbreak was not reported at the time, so it was not the result of the outbreak.
我当时提到，这事儿非常值得重视，我们把注意力全集中在（武汉市的华南）海鲜市场上，但怎么肺炎多出来这么多？而且，在我们看到的一些病例当中，有一部分和华南海鲜市场没关系，没任何关系。
I mentioned at the time that it was very important and we were all focused on the seafood market, but how come there was so much pneumonia? And some of the cases we saw had nothing to do with the South China seafood market.
这是个强烈的提示，说明疫情可能更早就发生了。
This is a strong indication that the outbreak may have occurred earlier.
我看到通报，泰国筛选了11000多个来自武汉的旅客，发现了一个患者（注：泰国的有关通报发布于1月13日）。
I have seen reports that Thailand has screened more than 11,000 tourists from Wuhan and found one patient.
武汉的人口，我们打个折扣，2万人里发现1个，人口按800万算，那也应该有400病例。
Wuhan population, let us discount, 20 thousand people found 1, the population of 8 million, that should also be 400 cases.
但当时报告出来的病例数是41例（注：1月16日之前，武汉市卫健委通报的病例是41例），疫情肯定是被低估了。
However, the number of reported cases at that time was 41 (Note: Before January 16, Wuhan city health committee reported 41 cases), the epidemic situation is certainly underestimated.
当时，我们提出了这个问题，第二天我发现，防疫的“风向”有点变了，大家开始重视。
At that time, we raised this issue, the next day I found that the epidemic prevention "wind direction" a little changed, people began to attach importance.
从科学的角度认识，我们当时确实说不清楚有没有人传人，但从普遍的规律而言，应该注意加强防控。
From a scientific point of view, we really could not say whether there was no human-to-human transmission, but from the general rule, attention should be paid to strengthening control.
这点我们也提醒公众注意自身防护。
We also remind the public of our own defenses.
每次处理疫情的时候，我是有思想准备的，就是有可能会被感染3.中青报·中青网：现在，您认为自己什么时候感染的？王广发：我是一个普通人，不是神，不是钢筋铁打，不会百毒不侵。
Every time I deal with an epidemic, I am mentally prepared, or I may be infected by it. Now, when do you think you got it? Wang Guangfa: I am an ordinary person, not a god, not steel, not invulnerable.
一线的医护人员冲锋陷阵，我们作为国家级专家，肩负的很重要的任务是，我们要了解这个疾病，这个疫情。
First-line health care workers are on the line, and we, as national experts, have a very important task to understand the disease, the epidemic.
我们需要第一手资料，必须得来到病人床边，去到发热门诊。
We need first-hand information, we have to go to the patient bed, to the fever clinic.
我不能走马观花，我要看真实的情况。
I can't walk around. I want to see the real thing.
我到现在也不知道，在CDC（疾控中心）发表的论文当中，那些感染的“医务人员”包括不包括我，但我没有海鲜市场的暴露，还被感染了，证明肯定人传人，毫无疑问。
I still don't know that in the CDC paper, those infected "medical personnel" included those who did not include me, but I had no exposure to the seafood market and was infected, which proves that there is no doubt about the positive person-to-person transmission.
谁也不愿意得病，我很沮丧，也很无奈，谁让我赶上了。
Nobody wants to get sick, I am very depressed, but also very helpless, who let me catch up.
防控广东的新发SARS，以及后来的禽流感、新发流感，还有云南的鼠疫、最近的内蒙古鼠疫，我都参加过。
I have participated in the prevention and control of new SARS in Guangdong and later avian and new influenza, as well as the plague in Yunnan and, more recently, the plague in Inner Mongolia.
还有一些小的疫情，像某地麻疹肺炎、局部爆发的流感我都参加过。
There were also minor outbreaks, like measles pneumonia in one place, a localized flu outbreak in which I had participated.
每次处理疫情的时候，我是有思想准备的，就是有可能会被感染。
Every time I deal with an epidemic, I am mentally prepared to be infected.
我经历了那么多场疫情，也都是到病房去查看病人，检查病人没有被感染。
I've been through so many outbreaks, and I've all gone to the ward to check on patients and see that they're not infected.
但是常在河边走，哪能不湿鞋？咱们上战场打仗，哪个人能保证不会受伤？接触的机会多，感染的机会多，我被感染，有必然性。
But how can we always walk by the river without wet shoes? We go to war, who can guarantee not to be injured? Contact more opportunities, more chances of infection, I was infected, inevitable.
我到武汉第2天，就进入ICU看病人。
I went to Wuhan the second day, entered the ICU to see the patients.
当时我对病情还不太了解，（如果）只是听别人讲，那是不行的。
I didn't know much about the disease at the time, and it wouldn't do (if) just to listen.
我想看看重症病人重到什么程度，有没有特殊的情况。
I want to see how serious the patient is and if there are any special circumstances.
我们看了病人以后，对这个病的认识才能深化。
Only when we have seen the patient can we deepen our understanding of the disease.
我进去的时候正好赶上插管，我就帮了他们一下，这是高危的暴露，但我当时穿着全套防护，所以我不认为那一次近距离的接触是让我感染的源泉。
I went in just in time for the cannula, and I helped them, it was a high-risk exposure, but I was wearing full protective gear, so I don't think that close contact was the source of my infection.
后来，我去了几个医院的发热门诊，一方面希望了解疫情，一方面希望帮着当地把发热门诊工作做好。
Later, I went to several hospital fever clinics, on the one hand, hope to understand the epidemic, on the other hand, hope to help the local heating clinic do a good job.
其中一家医院，进去后发现比较混乱，病人比较多，环境比较狭小。
One of the hospitals, after entering found more confusion, more patients, the environment is relatively narrow.
我后来得知，可能和我前后脚，那家医院有位我认识的医生也感染了。
I later learned that it might have been with me and my back and forth that a doctor I knew at that hospital was also infected.
记得当时在那家医院，我看到有流感的病人，也有一看片子就是典型的新型冠状病毒肺炎的病人，我穿了隔离衣，戴着N95口罩和帽子、手套，但没戴护目镜。
I remember seeing a patient with flu at that hospital, and one that looked like a typical patient with coronavirus pneumonia. I was wearing a paraphernalia, a N95 mask and hat, gloves, but no goggles.
我后来推测，在当时狭小的空间内，病人数量比较多，病毒的浓度比较高，结合那位医生也感染的情况，当时医护人员防护可能要升级了。
I later surmised that in the narrow confines of the room, the number of patients and the concentration of the virus were relatively high, and that combined with the fact that the doctor was also infected, the level of medical protection might have been upgraded.
专家组没有配备护目镜，因为一般不需要，但如果收治的病人比较多，局部病毒的浓度比较高，通风又不好，空间又狭小，在这些条件共同促进下，是有可能通过黏膜感染的。
The Group does not have goggles because they are generally not needed, but if more patients are admitted, local virus concentrations are higher, ventilation is poor and space is small, which, when combined, makes it possible to infect through mucous membranes.
这只是我的一种推测。
It's just my guess.
回京之后的第二天，我当时在开会，觉得不太对劲，眼睛有异物感，就拿手机摄像头看了一眼，我的眼睛发红。
The day after I returned to Beijing, I was having a meeting and I felt a little out of place. I took a look at the camera on my cell phone and my eyes were red.
接着就出现了上呼吸道症状，鼻塞、轻度的流鼻涕、嗓子疼，接着就发烧、发冷。
This was followed by upper respiratory symptoms, stuffy nose, mild runny nose, sore throat, followed by fever and chills.
因为我进的发热门诊，所以我当时首先考虑的是流感。
As I entered the fever clinic, I was thinking first of all about the flu.
流感的传染性比冠状病毒肺炎强得多，可能是传染病里传染性最强的，比SARS的传染性都要高，但它的致病性并不那么高。
Influenza is much more infectious than coronavirus pneumonia, probably the most infectious of infectious diseases, more infectious than SARS, but it is not so pathogenic.
我是临床医生，有临床的思维习惯，于是把自己的情况和我当时了解的41例新冠病毒肺炎患者的情况比对了一下。
I was a clinician with a clinical habit of thinking, so I compared myself to the 41 patients I had known at the time.
我记得（当时的诊疗）指南里头也没写有上呼吸道的症状，但当天我还是把自己隔离了。
I remember there was no sign of upper respiratory symptoms in the guidebook, but I isolated myself the same day.
第二天我戴着口罩，到医院急诊室，查了一下流感病毒，结果是阴性。
The next day I wore a mask and went to the emergency room of the hospital to check for the flu virus. The result was negative.
流感病毒的检测，敏感度很低，能达到60%的敏感度就不错了。
Detection of influenza viruses, which are very sensitive, can achieve 60% sensitivity is good.
所以我觉得，阴性不能说明问题，还是按照流感去治，服用了奥司他韦，全身的症状比如肌肉酸疼、头疼都没有见好，体温稍微下来点，但鼻塞、流鼻涕还存在。
So I don't think the negative is a sign of the problem. Instead, I took oseltamivir with flu-like symptoms all over the body, such as sore muscles, headaches, and a little lower body temperature, but stuffy noses and runny noses.
到了第4天，应该是1月20日，晚上又开始发烧。
On the fourth day, it was supposed to be January 20, and the fever began again at night.
发病的48小时内服用抗流感药物，应该有效。
Anti-flu drugs taken within 48 hours of onset should be effective.
当时，我就觉得不对了，得考虑新冠病毒肺炎了。
At the time, I felt wrong and had to consider the new crown virus pneumonia.
第一时间，我给我们医院打电话，告诉有关领导，我可能被感染，希望安排做个核酸检测。
The first time, I called our hospital and told the leader that I might be infected and wanted to arrange a nucleic acid test.
大约晚上9点半，我到急诊室采集了咽拭子，并留取了痰液。
At about 9: 30 p.m., I went to the emergency room to pick up swabs and leave the phlegm.
那天晚上，我头疼得非常剧烈，根本就睡不着觉，还在发高烧。
That night I had such a bad headache that I couldn't sleep at all and I had a high fever.
第2天，1月21号，核酸检测结果是阳性，肺部CT显示是典型的肺炎表现。
The next day, Jan. 21, the nucleic acid test was positive and the pulmonary CT scan showed a typical case of pneumonia.
就这么确诊了。
That's the diagnosis.
当时我也比较淡定，想过病情加重的情况，甚至想过会“去见马克思”。
At that time, I also relatively calm, thought of the aggravation of the condition, even thought of "to see Marx."
但我是个临床医生，生生死死见多了，心理素质还可以，那就治疗吧。
But I am a clinician, life and death see much, psychological quality is OK, then cure it.
我看过的肺片数不胜数，哪一天不看几个肺片？这次我看自己的肺片，觉得在我见过的病例当中，应该是比较轻的，不排除会发展成重的。
I've seen so many lungs that I won't see one day. This time I look at my lungs and think that in the cases I've seen, they should be lighter and not rule out the development of a heavy lung.
所以我比较关注自己咳嗽和呼吸困难的症状，但是很奇怪，我在发烧最严重的时候一点都不咳嗽，也没有呼吸困难。
So I was more concerned with my cough and dyspnea, but strangely, I didn't cough at all or have trouble breathing at the height of my fever.
这时候，院里开始安排我转到地坛医院，我就老老实实在家隔离着，等着。
At this time, the courtyard began to arrange for me to transfer to the DiTan Hospital, I just stay home in isolation, waiting.
其实，只要搞传染病的防控，只要接触病人，感染都有可能发生。
In fact, as long as the prevention and control of infectious diseases, as long as contact with patients, infections can occur.
现在的医护人员防护条件好多了，仍然有可能感染，特别是在疫情集中爆发的时候，秩序混乱，人们忙碌。
Health care workers are better protected today, and there is still a risk of infection, especially when the outbreak is concentrated, disorder and people are busy.
我们去一线，并不因为自信不会得病，而是必须得去。
We go there not because we are confident that we won't get sick, but because we have to.
比如这次去武汉，是卫健委派我去的。
For example this time to Wuhan, Wei Jian appointed me to go.
一般这种情况，领导打个电话，跟医院说明一下——这个人要参加国家的疫情防控——就去了。
In this case, the leader calls and tells the hospital that this person is going to participate in the country's prevention and control.
我从来不会讨价还价，因为这是应该做的。
I never haggle, because that's what I should do.
我小时候身体不好，高考填志愿，父亲的朋友建议我学医，父母不反对就学了。
When I was young, I was in poor health. My father's friends suggested that I study medicine.
后来有人问我后不后悔，我觉得还是很有成就感。
Later someone asked me whether I regretted it, I still feel a sense of accomplishment.
最大的成就感就是病人痊愈——躺着进来，站着出去。
The greatest sense of accomplishment is when the patient recovers - lie down and stand out.
把人从死亡线上拉回来，这是积多大的德。
To drag a man back from the line of death is the sum of virtue.
当时我们没有看到明确的人传人的证据4.中青报·中青网：你们在武汉做了哪些研究？主要的关注点在什么地方？王广发：当时我们实际上对疫情很警觉，关注点也是公众的关注点——有没有人传人？有没有传染性？但我们掌握的资料是比较有限的，从有限的资料来看，当时我们没有看到明确的人传人的证据。
What did you do in Wuhan? What were your main concerns? Wang Guangfa: At that time, we were actually very alert to the epidemic and focused on the public attention - was there any person-to-person transmission? Is there any infectivity? But the information we had was limited, and from the limited information available, we did not see clear evidence of human-to-human transmission.
但我们也不是仅仅局限于一份报告，因为它是二手资料，主要是当地的CDC（疾控中心）和卫健委报上来的。
But we are not limited to only one report, because it is secondary information, mainly reported by the local CDC (CDC) and the Wei Bodyguard Commission.
我们也下去看病人。
We're going down to see the sick.
我们看到的病人，是有特征性。
The patient we saw was characteristic.
另外和我们过去见过的肺炎的确不一样，和SARS有相似的地方，但总体来讲，它的重症比例确实比我们在SARS期间经历的病例要低。
And unlike pneumonia, which we've seen in the past, it's similar to SARS, but in general, its severity is lower than the number of cases we experienced during SARS.
我们做临床医生，看的是一个一个的“人”，不是说拿个表格看病人身份。
We are clinicians, looking at a "person" one by one, not taking a form to see the identity of the patient.
观察这个疾病有什么特点，找出该采取什么策略，这是我需要做的。
Observe what the disease is like and figure out what strategy to adopt. That's what I need to do.
这个病有没有传染性，临床大夫也应该关注，但最主要的是要靠疾控部门的调查研究来判定。
Whether or not the disease is contagious, clinicians should also pay attention to, but the most important is to rely on the disease control department to determine the investigation.
大家可能不太了解专家的这些分工。
These divisions of labour among experts may not be well understood.
现在越来越多的证据显示人传人，但当时我们确实没有证据，但在医院和发热门诊的救治及门诊的预检分诊已经加强了医务人员的防护。
There is a growing body of evidence of human-to-human transmission, but we did have no evidence at the time, but treatment in hospitals and hot clinics and pre-clinical check-ups have strengthened the protection of medical staff.
当时，给我们的资料是41例确诊病例，这当中有两起聚集性病例。
At that time, we were informed of 41 confirmed cases, including two cases of aggregation.
我们请教过CDC的专家，根据两起聚集性病例，没法得出“人传人”的结论，这需要流行病学专家来回答。
We consulted experts at the CDC and, based on two cases of aggregation, were unable to draw a "person-to-person" conclusion, which required an epidemiological expert to answer.
判断人传人，是一个技术性的工作，不是说一家子有两人得了，这就是人传人。
It is a technical job to judge the person-to-person, not to say that there are two in the family, this is the person-to-person.
这是一个复杂的科学的概念，反映传染病强度的，有一个复制数，就是一个病人可以传给几个人，它是要经过一系列的计算，这是传染病传播强度一个量化的指标，不是说靠哪一个人就能够说出来，它也应该是一个集体的判断。
It is a complex scientific concept that reflects the intensity of an infectious disease. There is a reproduction number, that is, a patient can be passed on to several people, it is a series of calculations, it is a quantitative indicator of the spread of infectious disease, not by one person, but by a collective judgement.
我要特别强调，不是个人去判断疫情，而是集体一起研判，但是研判的资料，必须得是没问题的。
I would like to stress, in particular, that it is not for individuals to judge the epidemic, but for the information to be examined, it must be all right.
原始的资料有欠缺，甚至有些信息根本没拿到，判断上就会失误。
The original material is deficient, even some information has not been obtained at all, judgement will be wrong.
我在SARS10周年时写道，盖子不能捂，越捂越糟糕。
I wrote on the occasion of the 10th anniversary of SARS10 that the lid could not be covered and the worse it was.
对大众也不能隐瞒，大众有可能会恐慌，但时常经历“低剂量的刺激”，大众逐渐就能够接受。
Nor can it be hidden from the public, which may panic, but often experience a "low dose of stimulation" that is gradually accepted by the general public.
绝对不能掩盖疫情，让专业人员都无法了解真实的情况。
The epidemic must not be obscured so that professionals do not have access to the real situation.
“可防可控”不是说“不防不控”，在专家组有共识你们不是关心我那句“可防可控”吗？到现在我们都不能说这个病“不可防不可控”吧？只是说我们的代价很高昂，这是另一码事。
"Preventable" doesn't mean "out of control," and there's a consensus in the panel that you don't care about my sentence "defensible?" Right now, we can't say that the disease is "uncontrollable," just that our costs are high, and that's another matter.
所以我觉得这个过程是很值得总结，从专家的角度来讲，有一个逐步认识的过程。
So I think this process is worth summarizing, from the expert's point of view, there is a step-by-step process of understanding.
我说“可防可控”，其实是说，在任何阶段我们都应该坚定信心，经历了那么多传染病，哪个没防住？实际上我们也提了很多建议，不是说“可防可控”就“不防不控”了，而是需要加强重视的。
When I say "defensible," I mean, we should be confident at any stage that we have experienced so many infectious diseases, which one has not? In fact, we have made a lot of suggestions, not to say "preventable controllable" or "uncontrollable."
在专家组里，这是有共识的。
In the Group of Experts, there is consensus.
从后来的情况看，我觉得大家都应该好好反思，专家传达的信息尽量完整，大家看信息也不要断章取义。
In the future, I think we should all reflect on it, the information conveyed by the experts should be as complete as possible, and people should not read the information out of context.
一看到“可防可控”，就觉得好啦，万事大吉了，可防什么呢？大家的措施都到位，大家都重视，才能可防可控。
At the sight of "preventable controllable," I feel good, everything is fine, but what can be guarded? Everybody's measures are in place, we all pay attention to, can prevent controllable.
再比如“护目镜”那件事，实际上我提示的是医护人员，因为他们整天在那个地方待着，黏膜感染的机会就会多，没想到大众都去抢了，没办法，我又发了一个微博来解释。
As for the goggles thing, what I'm actually suggesting is that the paramedics, because they stay there all day, have a better chance of getting mucous membrane infection.
当然，这也在情理之中。
Of course, that makes sense.
一来有些人错误理解了“可防可控”，二来我是国家级的专家组成员，大家会认为，“这个人应该百毒不侵的，这么高的专家怎么会感染呢？”住院时提出把新型肺炎归为乙类传染病等建议5.中青报·中青网：您从武汉回北京，直到后来住院，整个疫情又有了进展。
On the one hand, some people misunderstand "preventable controllable," on the other hand, I am a member of a national expert group, you will think, "This person should not be aggressive, how can such a high-level expert become infected?"
在此期间，您除了接受治疗，有没有针对疫情防控提过一些建议？王广发：国家有难，匹夫有责。
In the meantime, besides receiving treatment, have you made any suggestions on the prevention and control of the epidemic? Wang Guangfa: The country is in trouble, the husband is responsible.
看到疫情的发展，其实很着急，可又被困在隔离病房。
Seeing the spread of the epidemic, in fact very anxious, but trapped in the isolation ward.
但还好，我的病情不重，虽然生病，还能继续工作。
But fortunately, my condition is not serious, although sick, can continue to work.
我给各级部门提出自己对疫情的判断，提出意见和建议，包括指南的更新、重要措施的采取。
I gave my own diagnosis of the epidemic at all levels and made observations and recommendations, including the updating of the guidelines and the adoption of important measures.
提出分类管理，多部门联动，对武汉、武汉周边及其他地区采取不同的防控策略，高度关注武汉周边疫情发展，把新冠病毒肺炎归为乙类传染病、按甲类管理，等众多意见建议。
It puts forward taxonomic management, multi-department linkage, adopting different prevention and control strategies to Wuhan, Wuhan and other areas, paying close attention to the development of epidemic situation around Wuhan, classifying the new crown virus pneumonia as a Class B infectious disease, management according to category A, and so on.
再比如限制人流、重视武汉周边地区，别让这些地方变成疫情向外扩散的通道。
Another example is to limit the flow of people, attention to the surrounding areas of Wuhan, do not let these places become the spread of the epidemic to the channel.
再比如，春节之后人们回京的问题，需要多部门的联动。
For example, the issue of people returning to Beijing after the Spring Festival needs to be linked by many departments.
既要考虑到社会运行，更要关注到疾病的防控。
We should consider not only the operation of society but also the prevention and control of diseases.
为了疾病防控，人员一点都不流动，这不现实，国家还要运转，物资还要生产、运送。
In order to prevent and control the disease, people do not move at all, which is unrealistic, the state has to operate, materials have to be produced and transported.
得把握一个度。
We need to get a grip.
北京的工作目前看来比较扎实，病例数虽然在增多，但防控的形势比较平稳。
Beijing's work seems to be relatively solid at present, although the number of cases is increasing, but the situation of prevention and control is relatively stable.
一个是北京市各级领导重视，一个是北京的医疗资源比较丰富，又有抗击SARS的经验，还有当时抗击SARS留下来的储备，比如小汤山医院。
One is Beijing's leadership at all levels, one is Beijing's rich medical resources, experience in fighting SARS, and then the fight against SARS left over reserves, such as Xiaotangshan Hospital.
但是，千万不能掉以轻心，我现在就比较担心一些没有源头的病例，可能是社区传染，不是输入型的病例了。
But let us not be complacent. I am now more concerned about cases that do not have a source, which may be community-borne, not imported.
早期都是输入型，这个人到了某地，传给别人，这就成了本土病例。
In the early days, it was an input, a person who moved somewhere and passed it on to someone else, which became a local case.
本土病例传了三代、四代，病毒就落地生根了。
The virus took root in the third and fourth generations of local cases.
不注意的话，就有可能出现第二个武汉。
If we don't pay attention, we may have a second Wuhan.
大城市容易出现这样的情况。
Such is the case in large cities.
群防群治是我们国家的优势，但要依法依规，有的人从外地回来，不让人进家门，这是违法。
Group rule is the strength of our country, but it is against the law for some people to come back from other places and not to let people in.
他有病，可以报告有关部门，进行隔离。
He's sick. He can report to the authorities for isolation.
没有症状，怎么能不让人回家？居家隔离14天也行啊。
No symptoms, how can you not let people go home? Home isolation for 14 days is OK.
北京这样的城市，医疗资源集中，疫情不太严重，如果发现病例应该住院隔离，这样最保险。
In a city like Beijing, where medical resources are concentrated and the epidemic is less severe, it is safest to isolate cases if they are found.
但在武汉，有些病人至今还不能完全收进去。
But in Wuhan, some patients are still not fully admitted.
我今天给有关部门写了建议，在武汉要研究家庭隔离的规范问题。
Today, I wrote to the relevant departments to study the issue of the norms of family isolation in Wuhan.
把病人放在家里，得有人管他，谁来管？怎么管？什么情况下病人得住院？这要发挥社区医疗的作用，发挥转诊机制，要好好研究。
Put the patient at home, someone has to take care of him, who cares? How? When patients have to be hospitalized? This should play the role of community medicine, acting as a referral mechanism, to be well studied.
我们的社会治理，几个字挺简单，涉及的内容太繁杂，不是那么容易做。
Our social governance, a few words quite simple, involved in the content is too complex, not so easy to do.
我希望出台某些政策，一定要经过深思熟虑，千万别一拍脑瓜就出一个政策，最后一看基层，不对头了。
I hope to introduce some policies, must be carefully considered, do not slap a brain on a policy, finally look at the grass-roots, not right.
像武汉那样疫情比较严重、收治能力不足的，轻症病人可以在家隔离，但要判断准确，什么样的病人是轻症。
Wuhan, such as the more serious epidemic, lack of treatment capacity, light patients can be isolated at home, but to judge accurately, what kind of patient is mild.
现在很大的一个问题，就是诊断。
One big problem right now is diagnosis.
疫情发展到现在，确诊需要核酸检测，诊断能力不足不行啊。
At present, diagnosis needs nucleic acid test, diagnosis ability is not enough ah.
判断病人能不能出院，必须是两次核酸检测阴性，中间相隔一天，检测都检测不了，病人又不敢放出院，影响了效率。
To determine whether the patient can be discharged from the hospital, must be two nucleic acid negative, separated by a day, the detection can not detect, patients do not dare to release the hospital, affecting efficiency.
此外，假阳性、假阴性，都会带来很大的问题。
In addition, false positive, false negative, will bring great problems.
我这几天在反复跟有关部门反复提推动快速诊断方法。
Over the past few days, I have repeatedly advocated with the relevant departments to promote rapid diagnosis.
但这些技术进入临床之前，需要立项，研发产品，进行临床研究，要做很严谨的科学评价。
But before these technologies enter clinical practice, it is necessary to establish projects, develop products, conduct clinical research, and make rigorous scientific evaluation.
快速筛查一旦可用，会大大改善防控疫情的窘境。
Rapid screening, once available, would greatly improve the containment of the epidemic.
也许很快，我正在推动。
Maybe soon, I'm pushing.
另外，我很关注重症和危重病人的救治，所以我们还有个项目是专门针对重症病人、降低死亡率的。
In addition, I'm concerned about the treatment of the seriously ill and critically ill, so we have a program that specifically targets the seriously ill and reduces mortality.
大家要团结起来6.中青报·中青网：您对目前疫情的判断？王广发：我没有特别仔细地分析数据，但是我看到湖北乃至全国的疫情，确诊病例的增幅似乎在下降。
I have not analyzed the data very carefully, but I have seen the epidemic situation in Hubei and even in China, and the rate of confirmed cases seems to be decreasing.
我觉得这是一个好的趋势，说明我们前期的工作可能起效。
I think this is a good trend, indicating that our early work may be effective.
其实根据当时SARS留下的经验，病人收进去了，传染源控制起来了，传染病就控制住了。
In fact, according to the experience left by SARS at the time, the patient was admitted, the source of infection was under control, infectious diseases were under control.
我现在估计，这场疫情的出现，可能更早。
I now estimate that the outbreak may have occurred earlier.
当我们突然警觉起来时，实际上已经有很多病人了。
When we were suddenly alerted, there were actually many patients.
这是将来需要总结的。
This needs to be summed up in the future.
眼下，只要我们的措施到位，大家各负其责，把工作做好，把该收的病人收进去，把该隔离的病人隔离起来，我相信疫情会下去的。
Now, as long as our measures are put in place, we do our job well, we take in the patients who are supposed to be there, and we isolate the patients who are isolated, and I am sure that the epidemic will continue.
可能需要的时间要长一点，有希望，但艰难。
It may take a little longer, hopefully, but hard.
7.中青报·中青网：这次疫情爆发以来，中国学者有不少相关论文陆续发表，比如1月24日《柳叶刀》杂志在线发表的曹彬教授为通讯作者的一项研究，以及1月29日发表于《新英格兰医学杂志》的题为《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎在中国武汉的初期传播动力学》的论文，这两篇您读过吗？王广发：曹彬教授当时跟我打了招呼，让我看了论文，署了我的名。
7. Zhongqing Daily: Since the outbreak of the epidemic, Chinese scholars have published a number of related papers, including one published online by The Lancet on January 24 by Professor Cao Bin as a communicator, and the New England Journal of Medicine on January 29 entitled "The Early Spread Dynamics of Coronavirus Infected Pneumonia in Wuhan, China"
但我不是那篇论文的责任作者，也没有从头到尾参与资料的收集。
But I was not the lead author of the paper, nor was I involved in the data collection from beginning to end.
那里面很多是针对初期一些病例的观点，现在病例多了，论文中一些观点未必是正确的。
A lot of that was about early cases, but now there are more cases, and some of the ideas in the paper may not be true.
CDC的论文我就不清楚了，400多个病例，我甚至不知道里面包括不包括我本人。
I don't know about the CDC paper. There are more than 400 cases, and I didn't even know it included me.
我不清楚那篇论文产出的过程。
I don't know the process by which the paper was produced.
但是我觉得，从一个方面来讲，总结经验是很重要的。
But I think, in one respect, learning from experience is very important.
历次的疫情防控，第一位都应该是实际的工作，我并不反对写论文，重要的是，我希望在论文发表之前，专家层面有一个充分的分享，这样才有利于疾病的防控。
I am not opposed to writing papers. It is important for me to have a full sharing at the expert level before the papers are published so as to facilitate disease prevention and control.
大家综合判断疫情需要很多资料，这些资料应该在发表论文之前就呈现给大家，这是必要的。
It is necessary that the information needed for a comprehensive diagnosis of the epidemic be presented to you before the publication of the paper.
8.中青报·中青网：您对公众有什么建议？抢口罩、消毒液还有双黄连口服液，这些消息可以说层出不穷。
China Youth Daily: What do you suggest to the public? Steal masks, disinfectant and Shuanghuanglian oral liquid.
其实犯不着去这么紧张。
Why are you so nervous?
你宅在家里，或者跑到郊野公园，没有近距离接触人，戴什么口罩？露天的情况下，保持一定的距离，比如说1米5以上，也不需要戴口罩。
If you are staying at home or running to a country park without close contact with people or wearing a mask, keep a certain distance, say, 1 metre or more, out of the open air.
飞沫传播也不会飞太远，近距离接触传播，只要把握好了，及时戴口罩，也不是特别容易传。
Flying foam does not fly too far, close contact spread, as long as grasp, timely wearing masks, is not particularly easy to transmit.
当然，要是去医院，就要警惕，那是另一种环境。
Of course, if you go to a hospital, be on your guard. It's a different environment.
只要不是有人朝你身上吐痰，不至于出去晃一圈或者去趟医院诊室回来就要换件外套。
Change your coat if no one spits on you, doesn't go out for a spin or comes back to the hospital room.
我自己是没那么多外套。
I don't have that many coats myself.
疾病防控要讲科学，要理性，一些过度的无意义的措施，没有必要。
Disease prevention and control to speak of science, to reason, some excessive meaningless measures, not necessary.
现在键盘敲几个字，一下子全世界都知道。
Now the keyboard hits a few words and all of a sudden the world knows.
信息传播的速度快，好处多，但谣言的传播也变快了。
The spread of information is faster and more beneficial, but rumors are spreading faster.
我推荐大家看一看WHO的网站，有中文版，对公众有一些建议，写得是挺好的。
I suggest you take a look at the WHO Web site, which is available in Chinese. It has some suggestions for the public and is well written.
美国CDC网站，对公众和专业人员都有一些建议，语言上也比较简洁，没有讲复杂的道理。
The CDC site in the United States offers some advice to the public and professionals alike. It is also more succinct in its language and less complex in its reasoning.
对大家研判疫情有帮助。
It is helpful for us to judge the epidemic situation.
得了一场病，我对这个病就有了更直接的体会。
I have had a disease, I have a more direct experience of the disease.
少一些争论，多干一些实事，如果疫情控制不下来，我们每个人都会受害。
There is less debate and more real work to be done. If the epidemic is not brought under control, each of us will suffer.
当务之急是大家都得行动起来，严防死守，科学、依法防控。
It is imperative that we all act, strictly guard against death, science, legal control.
整天唱高调，什么事都不干，对疾病防控没有丝毫意义。
Singing all day long, doing nothing, has no meaning for disease prevention and control.
所以我觉得这个阶段，最主要的可能还不是究责的问题，最主要的是大家要团结起来，把疫情控制住，然后我们去总结经验，总结教训，及时改进我们的工作。
So I think the most important thing at this stage may not be the question of accountability. The most important thing is for us to unite and control the epidemic. Then we can learn from our experience, draw lessons and improve our work in a timely manner.
（中青报·中青网记者杨海对本文亦有贡献）本文由中国青年报独立出品，首发在中国青年报客户端及头条号，加入树木计划。
This article is produced independently by China Youth Daily. It was first published in China Youth Daily client and headline number, and joined the Tree Program.
觉得好看请点这里。
I think so. Please click here.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
卫健委专家组成员王广发出院了，回答了我们8个问题。
Wei health committee expert group member Wang Guangfa discharged from hospital, answered our 8 questions.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "卫健委专家组成员王广发出院了，回答了我们8个问题";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; Wang Guangfa & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "我不能走马观花，我要看真实的情况。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; I can't just walk around; I want to see the truth.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
