盖茨退出微软董事会，热衷研发新冠病毒快速检测工具。
Gates withdrew from Microsoft's board of directors and is keen to develop a new Crown Virus Rapid Detection Tool.
周源。
Zhou Yuan.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
盖茨基金会将提供最高6000万美元资金，用于加快2019新型冠状病毒疫苗、治疗和诊断工具的识别、开发和测试文|《财经》记者周源编辑|谢丽容3月14日，微软公司宣布，该公司联合创始人兼技术顾问比尔.盖茨（Bill Gates）辞去微软董事一职，将更加专注于慈善事业。
The Gates foundation will provide up to $60 million to speed up the identification, development and testing of 2019's new coronavirus vaccine, treatment and diagnostic tools. On March 14, Microsoft announced that Bill Gates, co-founder and technical adviser to the company, would step down from Microsoft's board, focusing more on philanthropy.
1975年,比尔.盖茨于与保罗.艾伦（Paul Allen）共同创立了微软。
In 1975, Bill Gates co-founded Microsoft with Paul Allen.
盖茨担任该公司CEO直至2000年，随后由史蒂夫鲍尔默（Steve Ballmer）接任。
Gates was CEO of the company until 2000, when Steve Ballmer took over.
微软现任CEO纳德拉于2014年上任。
The current CEO of Microsoft, Nadeira, took office in 2014.
虽然盖茨2014年才卸任微软董事会主席，但他从2008年开始就投入到比尔及梅琳达·盖茨基金（以下简称盖茨基金会）。
Although Gates stepped down as chairman of Microsoft's board only in 2014, he has invested in the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation since 2008.
微软公司年报显示，盖茨是微软最大的股东之一，持有1.36%的股份。
Gates is one of Microsoft's biggest shareholders, with a 1.36% stake, according to Microsoft's annual report.
该公司于1986年上市，如今市值突破万亿美元，成为全球市值最高的科技公司之一。
The company, which went public in 1986, now has a market capitalisation of more than $100bn, making it one of the world's most valuable technology companies.
中国爆发新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情后，盖茨基金会第一时间宣布提供500万美元紧急赠款用于中国抗疫。
After the outbreak of the new coronavirus pneumonia in China, the Gates Foundation first announced a $5 million emergency grant to fight the disease in China.
此时正值新冠肺炎全球流行，盖茨基金会宣布承诺投入最高1亿美元赠款，用于支持全球应对新冠肺炎疫情。
The announcement came as the Gates Foundation announced a commitment of up to $100 million in grants to support the global response to the new crown pneumonia epidemic.
科技大佬转身慈善大佬已10年2000年1月，比尔·盖茨与妻子梅琳达·盖茨共同创立了比尔及梅琳达·盖茨基金会，总部设在美国西雅图。
Technology gurus turned philanthropy for a decade Bill Gates and his wife Melinda Gates co-founded the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation in January 2000, headquartered in Seattle, USA.
该基金会属非营利性质，致力于将人类的创新才能应用于减少健康和发展领域的不平等现象。
The Foundation is a non-profit organization dedicated to applying human ingenuity to reducing inequalities in health and development.
盖茨基金创立之后在全球各地开展慈善事业。
Since its foundation, the Gates Foundation has carried out philanthropy around the world.
2000年，捐赠2.1亿美元以帮助留学生就读英国牛津大学；2005年1月，向全球疫苗与免疫联盟7.5亿美元的捐赠；2004年，通过多个慈善组织共为印度洋大地震灾难受害者捐赠300万美元；2014年，为帮助西非国家抗击埃博拉疫情捐款5000万美元，等等。
In 2000, $210 million was donated to help students study at Oxford University in the United Kingdom; in January 2005, $750 million was donated to the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization; in 2004, $3 million was donated to victims of the Indian Ocean earthquake disaster through various philanthropic organizations; and in 2014, $50 million was donated to help West African countries fight the Ebola epidemic.
2007年，盖茨基金会在北京设立了代表处，以支持中国改善公共卫生状况、消除极端贫困。
In 2007, the Gates Foundation opened a representative office in Beijing to support China's efforts to improve public health and eradicate extreme poverty.
2009年起，盖茨基金会与国家卫健委合作展开结核病防治项目，旨在构建和实施新的结核病和耐多药结核病防治模式，提升中国结核病，特别是耐多药结核病的防控质量。
Since 2009, the Gates Foundation has been working with the National Health Commission on a tuberculosis control project aimed at constructing and implementing new tuberculosis and multi-drug-resistant tuberculosis control models and improving the quality of tuberculosis prevention and control in China, especially multi-drug-resistant tuberculosis.
结核病是全球重大公共卫生挑战之一，联合国《2030年可持续发展议程》提出了到2030年终止结核病流行的目标。
Tuberculosis is one of the major global public health challenges, and the United Nations Sustainable Development Agenda 2030 sets the goal of ending the tuberculosis epidemic by 2030.
近年来，中国政府在结核病防控方面取得了巨大进展，结核病负担显著下降，提前五年实现联合国千年发展目标。
In recent years, the Chinese government has made great progress in tuberculosis control, significantly reducing the burden of TB, and achieving the UN Millennium Development Goals five years ahead of schedule.
但中国仍是结核病高负担国家之一，每年约有90万新发结核病患者，部分地区耐药率较高。
But China remains one of the countries with a high TB burden, with about 900,000 new cases of TB each year, with high rates of drug resistance in some areas.
2016年至2019年，中盖结核病防治项目在浙江、吉林和宁夏三个省全面推广了综合防治模式，覆盖人口达9000万，助力三个省份提前实现了国家结核病防治十三五规划的主要指标，疾病防控效果和社会效果均得以显现：十年前，诊断耐药结核病需要2个月，现在使用新技术只需2个小时；十年前，结核病患者每天需要吃13片药，如今只需吃3片；在传统的二线药物治疗下，耐药结核病的治愈率平均50%左右，而现在由于项目引入的新药，初步结果显示患者治愈率可以提高到85%；得益于政府增加结核病专项投入和多部门筹资等举措，现在耐药患者的医疗费用中，个人承担部分不超过10%。
Between 2016 and 2019, the project has expanded the comprehensive prevention and treatment model in Zhejiang, Jilin and Ningxia provinces, reaching 90 million people, helping three provinces to reach the main target of the 13th Five-Year Plan ahead of schedule.
2019年11月，盖茨基金会与国家卫健委进一步达成协议，未来十年将继续合作推进中国结核病的防治工作。
In November 2019, the Gates Foundation reached a further agreement with the National Institutes of Health to continue working together over the next decade to combat tuberculosis in China.
新冠肺炎疫情爆发后，2020年1月27日，盖茨基金会宣布提供500万美元紧急赠款，并提供相应的技术和专家支持，用于帮助中国相关合作伙伴加速在新型冠状病毒感染的流行病学、应急干预实施和医药产品研发等方面的工作。
Following the outbreak of the New Crown Pneumonia outbreak, on 27 January 2020, the Gates Foundation announced an emergency grant of $5 million and provided technical and expert support to help China's partners accelerate work on the epidemiology of new coronavirus infections, emergency intervention and the development of pharmaceutical products.
5年前就开始关注大型流行疫病新冠肺炎疫情发生后，比尔·盖茨五年前的一则预测在中国社交媒体火了。
Bill Gates' prediction of a five-year-old social media frenzy in China comes five years after the outbreak of a major epidemic of new crown pneumonia.
2015年，比尔盖茨在TED上的演讲2015年，比尔·盖茨就曾对全球性疫情的巨大威胁敲响过警钟，并呼吁全世界以备战的方式为这种大规模疫情的爆发做好准备。
In 2015, Bill Gates spoke at TED. In 2015, Bill Gates raised alarm bells about the huge threat of a global epidemic, and called on the world to prepare for such a pandemic in a war-ready manner.
2018年，比尔·盖茨又重申了这一观点，他援引了“疾病建模研究所”（IDM）的研究结果称，大规模的流感疫情可能在6个月内导致全球多达3300万人死亡。
In 2018, Bill Gates reiterated this view, citing the findings of the Institute for Disease Modeling (IDM), which concluded that a pandemic could kill up to 33 million people worldwide within six months.
盖茨当时称：“面对生物威胁，我们还缺乏紧迫感。
"We lack a sense of urgency in the face of biological threats," Gates said at the time.
这些准备工作包括模拟、军事演习和备战演习，以便我们能够更好地了解疾病将如何传播，以及如何应对隔离和通信等应对措施，以最大限度地减少恐慌。
These preparations include simulations, military exercises and war preparedness exercises so that we can better understand how the disease will spread and how to respond to responses such as isolation and communications in order to minimize panic.
”新冠肺炎已经在世界多地蔓延，被世界卫生组织WHO列为全球“大流行病”，全球各国联手抗击疫情变得十分紧迫。
New Crown Pneumonia has spread in many parts of the world and is listed as a global "pandemic" by the World Health Organization, making it urgent for countries around the world to join forces to fight it.
2月5日，盖茨基金会宣布承诺投入最高1亿美元赠款，用于支持全球应对新冠肺炎疫情。
On 5 February, the Gates Foundation announced a commitment of up to $100 million in grants to support the global response to the new crown pneumonia epidemic.
据介绍，这笔资金将用于加强病例发现、隔离和治疗，保护弱势人群以及加速开发疫苗、药物和诊断方法。
The funds will be used to strengthen case detection, isolation and treatment, protect vulnerable populations and accelerate the development of vaccines, drugs and diagnostic methods, it was said.
新宣布的赠款总额包括基金会1月末已经承诺投入抗击疫情的1000万美元。
The total amount of new grants announced includes $10 million that the foundation pledged in late January to fight the epidemic.
“多边机构、各国政府、私营部门以及慈善组织必须同心协力，遏制疫情蔓延，帮助各国保护最脆弱的人群，并加快相关工具的研发。
"Multilateral institutions, governments, the private sector and philanthropic organizations must work together to halt the spread of the epidemic, help countries protect the most vulnerable and accelerate the development of relevant tools.
”盖茨基金会首席执行官马克·苏斯曼表示，“我们希望投入更多资源，以帮助促成快速有效的国际响应。
"We want to invest more resources to help catalyse a rapid and effective international response," said Mark Suesman, the Gates foundation's chief executive.
这些响应应该以科学为指导而非恐惧，并且建立在世界卫生组织所采取的措施基础之上。
These responses should be guided by science, not fear, and build on measures taken by the World Health Organization.
”盖茨基金会正在和其他捐助方密切协调，贡献更多资源来协助世界卫生组织、中国相关机构以及其他国际和国家层面的相关机构。
The Gates Foundation, in close coordination with other donors, is contributing more resources to assist the World Health Organization, Chinese agencies and other relevant institutions at the international and national levels.
据外媒报道，盖茨基金会日前决定将提供最高6000万美元资金，用于加快2019新型冠状病毒疫苗、治疗和诊断工具的识别、开发和测试。
The Gates foundation has decided to provide up to $60 million to speed up the identification, development and testing of 2019 new coronavirus vaccines, treatments and diagnostic tools, according to foreign media.
如果该病毒在未来数月甚至更长时间内继续传播，只有寻找到安全有效的疫苗和治疗方案，才能实现对疫情的长期有效控制，并减少病例和死亡。
If the virus continues to spread in the coming months and beyond, only when safe and effective vaccines and treatment programmes are found can long-term control of the epidemic be achieved and cases and deaths reduced.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
盖茨退出微软董事会，热衷研发新冠病毒快速检测工具。
Gates withdrew from Microsoft's board of directors and is keen to develop a new Crown Virus Rapid Detection Tool.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "盖茨退出微软董事会，热衷研发新冠病毒快速检测工具";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Gates left Microsoft's board with a passion for AT & quot;;.
var msg_desc = "盖茨基金会将提供最高6000万美元资金，用于加快2019新型冠状病毒疫苗、治疗和诊断工具的识别、开发和测试";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
