谁有权发布疫情信息？专家联名呼吁修订传染病防治法。
Who has the right to release epidemic information? Experts jointly called for a revision of the infectious disease control law.
王丽娜。
Rina Wang.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
《传染病防治法》上一次修订是在“非典”疫情之后的2004年，此次新冠肺炎疫情又暴露出这部法律的一些短板和不足，专家建言修订涉及预警信息发布及疫区封锁等多个方面2月5日，北京普降大雪。
The latest revision of the Communicable Disease Prevention and Control Law came in 2004, after the SARS epidemic, and exposed some shortcomings and shortcomings of the law. Experts suggested that the revision should cover the dissemination of early warning information and the blockade of epidemic areas.
这场突如其来的新冠肺炎疫情，对中国是一场严峻的考验，坚韧的中国人民风雨同舟，抗击疫情。
This sudden outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia is a severe test for China, and the resilience of the Chinese people to fight the epidemic.
摄影／《财经》记者黎立文|《财经》记者 王丽娜 编辑|鲁伟经此新冠肺炎疫情防控一役，《传染病防治法》再次迎来修订契机。
Photo / Caijing reporter Li Liwen & # 44; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
近日，有十多位专家学者撰写《修订<传染病防治法>有关条文的专家建议》。
Recently, more than a dozen experts and scholars have written AT & L's expert advice on & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & nbsp; & quot; & quot
“完善疫情预警制度”“进一步明确疫情发布权”“完善法律责任规定”等等，针对公众在此次疫情中普遍关心的问题，专家们均有建言。
"Improving the Epidemic Alert System," "Further Clarifying the Right to Issue Outbreaks," "Improving the Provisions on Legal Responsibility," etc. Experts have all made suggestions on issues of common concern to the public in this epidemic.
中国卫生法学会常务副会长、清华大学法学院教授王晨光告诉《财经》记者，目前中国有多部与传染病、公共卫生事件相关的法律法规，如《突发事件应对法》《传染病防治法》《突发公共卫生事件应急条例》《传染病防治法实施办法》等，虽然法律框架比较完善，但相互之间并不匹配，制定时间和立法目的不同，在一些概念、适用主体、程序上也不完全一致。
Although the legal framework is perfect, it does not match each other, has different timing and legislative purposes, and is not fully consistent in concepts, subjects of application and procedures, Wang Chenguang, a professor at Tsinghua University School of Law, told Caijing News.
另外，相关法律规定存在不够清晰，操作性不强的情形，这些短板和不足就暴露在这次疫情应对中，值得反思与改进。
In addition, the relevant legal provisions are not clear, not strong operational situation, these shortcomings and deficiencies in the response to the epidemic, worthy of reflection and improvement.
“刚开始病毒不确定、传播渠道不确定，毒性不确定，面对不确定因素，怎么能依法、科学、有序做出决策，需要我们的法律机制要设置得能够应对不确定因素，健全的制度不是死的，解决的是活的、不确定的因素。
"At the beginning of the virus uncertainty, uncertain transmission channels, uncertainty of toxicity, uncertainty in the face of uncertainty, how can we make legal, scientific and orderly decision-making, need our legal mechanisms to be set up to deal with uncertainties, sound systems are not dead, they address living, uncertain factors.
”王晨光说。
"said Wang Chenguang.
疫情升级后，王晨光也参与到疫情防控中，在2月8日国家卫建委调整公布的专家组成员名单中，王晨光是两名法律界人士之一。
Wang was one of two legal professionals among a group of experts set up by the National Health and Construction Commission on Feb. 8 to help prevent the spread of the disease.
前述《修订<传染病防治法>有关条文的专家建议》正是王晨光联合11位专家学者撰写的。
The aforementioned expert advice on the revision and treatment of infectious diseases & amp; infectious disease & gt; was written by Wang Chenguang and 11 experts and academics.
3月1日，国家卫健委党组在最新出版的《求是》杂志刊文，提出推动修订《传染病防治法》《突发公共卫生事件应急条例》等法律法规。
On March 1, the National Health and Physical Fitness Commission, in the latest issue of the magazine, published articles, proposed to promote the revision of the Law on the Prevention and Treatment of Infectious Diseases, the Emergency Regulations for Public Health Emergencies and other laws and regulations.
此前几天，司法部出台意见，强调要推动立法和文件合法性审核，适时修订传染病防治法及其实施办法、突发公共卫生事件应急管理条例。
A few days ago, the Ministry of Justice issued an opinion, stressing the need to promote the legality of legislation and documents, timely amendments to the infectious disease prevention and treatment law, its implementation measures, public health emergencies emergency management regulations.
《传染病防治法》上一次修订是在“非典”疫情之后的2004年，至今已过去将近16年时间。
Nearly 16 years have passed since the last revision of the Communicable Diseases Act in 2004, in the wake of the SARS epidemic.
同样参与《传染病防治法》修订建言的还有南开大学法学院教授宋华琳，他对《财经》记者表示，建议完善法律的立法目的、厘清《传染病防治法》与相关法律的关系、建立从预防到应对的全周期防控机制和制度、完善疫情信息报告和发布程序、明确防控措施法律依据、完善法律责任规定、明确相关概念术语界定等。
Sung Hua-lin, a professor at Nankai University School of Law, told Caijing that the proposal is to improve the legislative purpose of the law, clarify the relationship between the Communicable Disease Prevention and Control Law and related laws, establish a full cycle prevention and control mechanism and system from prevention to response, improve epidemic information reporting and dissemination procedures, clarify the legal basis for prevention and control measures, improve legal responsibility and define related concepts.
谁可以公开预警？疫情早已发酵，但为公众所知源于网络上出现的一份文件。
Who can publicly warn? The outbreak has been fermenting, but it is known to the public from a file that appears on the Internet.
2019年12月30日，《关于做好不明原因肺炎救治工作的紧急通知》传播开来，这份通知称武汉华南海鲜市场陆续出现不明原因肺炎，请立即清查统计近一周接诊过的具有类似特点的不明原因肺炎病人，落款为武汉市卫健委医政医管处。
On December 30, 2019, the Emergency Notice on the Treatment of Unknown Causes of Pneumonia was disseminated. According to the notice, unexplained pneumonia is appearing in south China seafood market in Wuhan. Please check up the patients with pneumonia with similar characteristics who have been treated in the past week.
很快，这份文件的真实性得到媒体证实。
Soon, the authenticity of the document was confirmed by the media.
次日，武汉卫健委首次发布肺炎疫情的情况通报：“未发现明显人传人现象，未发现医务人员感染”。
The next day, Wuhan health committee issued the first information on pneumonia: "No apparent human-to-human phenomenon, no medical staff found infection."
2020年1月1日，武汉市公安局官方微博发布消息称，针对肺炎病例，武汉市卫健委就此发布情况通报，但一些网民不经核实发布、转发不实信息，已传唤、处理8人。
On January 1, 2020, the official Weibo of Wuhan Public Security Bureau announced that in response to the case of pneumonia, Wuhan Health Commission issued a circular on the matter, but some netizens have summoned and handled eight people without verifying or transmitting false information.
当时形势已然紧急。
The situation was already urgent.
《财经》记者获悉，1月3日武汉市某区曾召开不明原因病毒性肺炎防控工作紧急会议，武汉卫健委要求迅速进入战时状态。
According to Caijing, an emergency meeting of the prevention and control of viral pneumonia was held in a district of Wuhan on January 3.
但当时公众对此并不知情。
But the public was unaware of this.
1月11日，武汉卫健委发布通报再次强调，未发现医务人员感染，未发现明确的人传人证据。
On January 11, Wuhan Health Commission issued a circular re-emphasize that no medical staff found infection, no clear evidence of human-to-person.
1月15日，武汉卫健委发布通报，指出新型冠状病毒“不排除有限度人传人的可能”，但该病毒“持续人传人的风险较低”。
The new coronavirus "does not rule out the possibility of a limited human-to-human transmission," but the virus "continues to pose a low risk of human-to-human transmission," Wuhan Weijian reported.
但据《财经》记者了解，仅在武汉市中心医院，1月11日，该院就收到职工疑似感染病例3例，其中包括眼科医生李文亮。
However, according to Caijing reporter, only in Wuhan city central hospital, January 11, the hospital received three cases of suspected infection of workers, including ophthalmologist Li Wenliang.
2004年《传染病防治法》修订时，明确国家建立传染病预警制度。
When the Law on the Prevention and Control of Infectious Diseases was amended in 2004, it was clarified that the State establishes an early warning system.
《传染病防治法》授权国务院卫生行政部门和省级人民政府，根据传染病发生、流行趋势的预测，及时发出传染病预警，并根据情况予以公布。
The Law on the Prevention and Treatment of Infectious Diseases authorizes the administrative department of public health under the State Council and the people's governments at the provincial level to issue timely early warning of infectious diseases based on the forecast of their occurrence and prevalence.
对此，南开大学法学院副教授朱桐辉表示，建议将《传染病防治法》等法律法规中的预警明确为“对外预警”，细化发出对外预警的条件和情形，以提高及时性、透明性。
Zhu Tonghui, associate professor of the Nankai University Law School, suggested that the early warning in the Law on the Prevention and Treatment of Infectious Diseases should be clearly defined as "external warning," detailing the conditions and circumstances under which external warnings are issued, so as to improve timeliness and transparency.
宋华琳告诉《财经》记者，预警制度是指根据传染病疫情报告、监测资料，或者国际、国内疫情信息，对某种传染病或者不明原因疾病进行分析评估，对可能引起传染病在人群中发生、暴发、流行发出的警示信息，并采取应对措施。
Song told Caijing that "early warning system" refers to the analysis and assessment of an infectious disease or an unknown disease on the basis of epidemiological reports, surveillance data, or information on international and domestic epidemics.
“这次疫情暴露出中国传染病预警制度发布存在一些问题，例如未来是否有可能授予国家、省级疾病预防控制机构在疫情预警和公布方面的权力，让‘听得见枪声的人’去直接指挥发布。
"The outbreak has exposed a number of problems with the early warning system for infectious diseases in China, such as the possibility of granting the national and provincial disease prevention and control agencies the power to give early warning and publicity about the epidemic, allowing" people who can hear the gunshot "to direct and release it directly.
”宋华琳建议，修法时应完善预警制度，明确传染病预警的内容，明确预警的信息公开制度。
Song suggested that the amendment should improve the early warning system, clarify the contents of the early warning of infectious diseases and clarify the early warning information disclosure system.
他认为，当出现特定传染病报告或累积到一定病例数量后，此时行政机关的裁量权应收缩，出于风险防范的需要，必须公布预警。
In his view, when a specific infectious disease is reported or accumulates to a certain number of cases, the discretion of the administrative organ should be narrowed, and early warning must be made public for reasons of risk prevention.
他建议，传染病暴发、流行时，应赋予省级卫生行政部门、省级疾病预防控制机构向社会公布本行政区域传染病疫情信息的权力。
He suggested that provincial health administrations and provincial disease prevention and control agencies should be given the power to publish information on epidemic diseases in their administrative areas when outbreaks or epidemics occur.
在重大疫情面前，疾病预防控制机构该承担何种使命？2月27日，国家卫健委高级别专家组组长、国家呼吸系统疾病临床医学研究中心主任钟南山，在新闻发布会上回应疫情暴露出的防控体制机制等方面的短板时表示，“CDC（疾控中心）的地位要提高，而且有一定的行政权”。
"The CDC has a higher status and a certain degree of executive power," Zhong Nan-shan, director of the National Center for Clinical Research in Respiratory Diseases and head of the National Center for Clinical Research in Respiratory Diseases, said at a press conference that "CDC has a higher status and some executive power."
钟南山指出，2020年1月3日就正式分离出病毒毒株，报告给了地方CDC，也报告给了国家CDC，“我觉得我们CDC的地位太低了，CDC只是一个卫健委领导下的技术部门，CDC的特殊地位并没有得到足够的重视。
Zhong noted that the virus strain was officially isolated on January 3, 2020, reported to the local CDC, which is also reported to the National CDC. "I think our CDC status is too low.
在美国，在很多国家CDC是直通中央的，不需要逐级申报，甚至在特殊情况下可以直接向社会公报，但中国不是，是一级一级的。
In the United States, in many countries, the CDC is straight to the center, does not need to be declared, and even in special cases can be reported directly to the Social Bulletin, but China is not, at a level.
”疾控机构在中国属于公益类的事业单位，长期以来财政投入不足。
CDC is an institution in the public interest category in China and has long suffered from a lack of financial input.
自2018年深化机构改革开始，一些省份对包括疾病预防控制中心在内的各类事业单位进行整合，打破了自上而下的疾控体系链条。
Since the 2018 deepening of institutional reform, some provinces have integrated various institutions, including the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, breaking the top-down chain of disease control systems.
王晨光表示，目前疾控中心的功能定位和职责都不清晰，疾控中心的定位在新一轮的机构改革过程中还有待理顺。
'At present, the functions and responsibilities of the CDC are not clear, and the positioning of the CDC needs to be straightened out in a new round of institutional reform, 'Mr. Wang said.
直报系统失灵怎么办？《传染病防治法》关于“疫情报告、通报和公布”制度，规定了属地管理原则，要求任何单位和个人发现传染病病人后，按照行政管理区域，及时报告所在地县级疾病预防控制机构，再由县级疾病预防控制机构逐级上报或者进行直报。
The Law on the Prevention and Control of Infectious Diseases stipulates the principle of territorial control, which requires any unit or individual who discovers a patient with an infectious disease to report promptly, in accordance with the administrative area, to the county-level disease prevention and control agency, and then to the county-level disease prevention and control agency for direct reporting.
2003年“非典”之后，中央和地方共同投资约7.3亿元建立“全国传染病与突发公共卫生事件监测信息系统”（下称网络直报系统）。
After SARS in 2003, the central and local governments jointly invested about 730 million yuan to set up the National Information System for Monitoring Infectious Diseases and Public Health Emergencies (hereinafter referred to as the Direct Reporting System).
这个网络直报系统是中国预防传染病和突发公共卫生事件的手段之一，本应为早期探测、调查处置提供信息支撑。
This network direct reporting system is one of the means of preventing infectious diseases and public health emergencies in China and should provide information support for early detection, investigation and disposal.
但在疫情暴发后最初的28天里却失灵了（参考《财经》2月25日报道：传染病网络直报系统投资了7.3亿，为何失灵了28天？），在1月24日新功能上线之前，主要通过口头、邮件、电话上报疫情。
But it failed in the first 28 days after the outbreak (730 million dollars invested in the Communicable Disease Network Direct Reporting System, which failed for 28 days), and reported the outbreak by word of mouth, mail and telephone before the new features went live on January 24.
宋华琳表示，现行法条中没有规定信息化、大数据、人工智能等在疫情报告、通报中的作用，建议在修法中明确传染病监测报告信息系统的法律地位，强化各级专业化疾病预防控制机构在信息搜集和发布中的作用。
Song said that the current law does not stipulate the role of informatization, big data and artificial intelligence in epidemic reporting and notification. It is recommended that the legal status of the information system for infectious disease surveillance and reporting be clarified in the revision law, and that the role of specialized disease prevention and control agencies at all levels in information collection and dissemination be strengthened.
现行《传染病防治法》规定，疾病预防控制机构应当主动收集、分析、调查、核实传染病疫情信息。
The present Law on the Prevention and Control of Infectious Diseases stipulates that the disease prevention and control agencies shall collect, analyse, investigate and verify the epidemic information on their own initiative.
疾病预防控制机构应当设立或者指定专门的部门、人员负责传染病疫情信息管理工作，及时对疫情报告进行核实、分析。
The disease prevention and control agencies shall establish or designate special departments or personnel to be responsible for the information management of epidemic diseases and promptly verify and analyze epidemic reports.
目前，世界卫生组织的传染病疫情信息有两个来源，“一是官方正式渠道，约占30%；二是非正式渠道，占70%。
At present, WHO information on infectious diseases comes from two sources: "Official official channels, about 30 percent; and informal channels, 70 percent.
世界卫生组织特别强调，对来自各方面的信息都要予以充分重视。
In particular, the World Health Organization stressed the importance of giving due attention to information from all sources.
”这是时任全国人大常务委员会委员朱相远在2004年主编《传染病防治法释义》中的解释。
This was interpreted by Zhu Xiangyuan, then a member of the NPC Standing Committee, in his 2004 Editor-in-Chief's Interpretation of the Communicable Disease Prevention Law.
王晨光建议，在真正完善和发挥直报、上报系统功能的同时，不能把传染病信息集中在一个官方渠道上，应该更好地融汇社会上所有渠道的信息。
Wang suggested that while improving and developing the function of direct reporting and reporting system, information on infectious diseases should not be centralized in one official channel, and information from all channels in society should be better integrated.
他主张社会上不同的信息源，“总归还要归口，归到一个主管部门。
He argued that the different sources of information in society "must always come together in one authority."
归口这些信息的目的是预警，集中分析、判断，以及是不是启动应急状态。
The purpose of integrating this information is to provide early warning, focus analysis, judgment, and whether or not to initiate a state of emergency.
”王晨光认为，在信息收集中有防范虚假信息的必要，但专业人士的信息不能忽视，另外对于敢于报告的人士还要有奖励，“这套制度，要让它有效的话，谁报了要有奖励，如果报了受到惩罚，你说谁报。
Mr Wang argues that there is a need to guard against false information in the collection of information, but information from professionals cannot be ignored, and there are incentives for those who dare to report. "This system, if it is to be effective, will reward those who report it and, if so, who will report it.
”“要把人民群众生命安全和身体健康放在第一位。
"" We must give top priority to the safety and health of the people.
不同的信息要能够有序进入到决策机构，这也是我们建议法律下一步修订的一个方面。
Different information should be able to enter decision-making bodies in an orderly manner, which is one aspect of the next step in the revision of the law that we propose.
”王晨光告诉《财经》记者。
Wang told Caijing.
地方政府无权披露疫情？1月27日，武汉市长周先旺接受央视采访时表示，“各方面对我们信息的披露是不满意的”，“披露的不及时，这一点大家要理解，因为它是传染病，传染病有传染病防治法，它必须依法披露，作为地方政府，我获得这个信息以后，授权以后，我才能披露，所以这一点在当时很多（人）不理解。
"The parties are not satisfied with the disclosure of our information," Wuhan Mayor Zhou Xianwang told CCTV on Jan. 27, saying "all sides are dissatisfied with the disclosure of our information.
”传染病疫情信息，是必须授权后才能公布吗？对此，《传染病防治法》中直接对应的规定是，传染病暴发、流行时，国务院卫生行政部门负责向社会公布传染病疫情信息，并可以授权省、自治区、直辖市人民政府卫生行政部门向社会公布本行政区域的传染病疫情信息。
The direct counterpart of the Communicable Disease Prevention and Control Law is that, when an outbreak or epidemic of an infectious disease occurs, the health administration department under the State Council is responsible for publishing information on the spread of infectious diseases to the public, and may authorize the health administration departments of the people's governments of provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities directly under the Central Government to release to the public information about infectious diseases in their administrative areas.
宋华琳解释，这涉及如何理解《传染法防治法》第38条的理解与适用。
Ms. Song explained that this involved understanding the interpretation and application of section 38 of the Infectious Diseases Act.
《传染病防治法》第38条第3款规定“传染病暴发、流行时”，国务院卫生行政部门“可以授权省、自治区、直辖市人民政府卫生行政部门向社会公布本行政区域的传染病疫情信息”，但不能因此认为，面对新发的、不明的传染病，地方政府就无权公布任何信息。
Article 38, paragraph 3, of the Law on the Prevention and Treatment of Infectious Diseases stipulates that "in the event of an outbreak or epidemic of infectious diseases," the health administration department under the State Council "may authorize the health administration departments of the people's governments of provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities directly under the Central Government to publish information on infectious diseases in their administrative areas.
宋华琳指出，第38条第2款还规定，省、自治区、直辖市人民政府卫生行政部门定期公布本行政区域的传染病疫情信息。
Article 38, paragraph 2, also stipulates that the administrative departments of public health of the people's governments of provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities directly under the Central Government regularly publish information on infectious diseases in their respective administrative areas.
因此，他认为，省级卫生行政部门有公布本行政区域内传染病疫情信息的权力，无论“传染病暴发、流行”与否，省级卫生行政部门都有此权力，应及时、准确公布传染病疫情信息。
Therefore, he believes that provincial health administrative departments have the power to publish information on epidemic diseases in their respective administrative areas, and whether or not an "outbreak, epidemic" of infectious diseases occurs, provincial health administrative departments have the right to publish timely and accurate information on the epidemic situation.
另外，现行的《传染病防治法》规定了传染病预警制度，明确省级政府“根据传染病发生、流行趋势的预测，及时发出传染病预警，根据情况予以公布”，“这赋予了省级政府发出、公布预警的权力。
In addition, the current Law on the Prevention and Treatment of Infectious Diseases provides for an early warning system for infectious diseases, making it clear that provincial governments "issue timely early warning of infectious diseases based on the prediction of their occurrence and prevalence, and make them public according to the circumstances."
”“公布传染病疫情信息应当及时、准确，这是《传染病防治法》明确要求的。
"Disseminating information on epidemic diseases should be timely and accurate, as explicitly required by the Law on the Prevention and Treatment of Infectious Diseases.
”王晨光强调，应准确理解和适用《传染法防治法》第38条。
Mr Wang stressed that section 38 of the Infectious Diseases Act should be accurately understood and applied.
除此之外，王晨光告诉《财经》记者，2006年卫生部修订的《关于法定传染病疫情和突发公共卫生事件信息发布方案》，授权各省、自治区、直辖市卫生行政部门在本行政区域内发生传染病暴发、流行以及发生其他突发公共卫生事件时，及时、准确地发布辖区内的法定传染病疫情和突发公共卫生事件信息。
In addition, Wang told Caijing that the Ministry of Health revised the "Information Dissemination Program on Statutory Infectious Disease Outbreaks and Public Health Emergencies" in 2006, authorizing the health administration departments of provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities directly under the Central Government to promptly and accurately publish information on outbreaks of infectious diseases and other public health emergencies within their jurisdiction.
“法律规定不清晰，操作性不强，细节不够。
"The legal provisions are not clear, operational and detailed.
具体的主体、权限、程序、方式等，都不是很明确。
The specific subjects, authorities, procedures, methods, etc., are not very clear.
估计紧急情况下也没有太多的人关注到卫生部的一个部门规章。
It is also estimated that not many people in emergency situations are concerned with a sectoral regulation of the Ministry of Health.
”王晨光说，宋华琳还指出，《传染病防治法》第3章相当篇幅规定的是疫情报告与通报，这是行政体系之间信息的上报、下达、共享，只用了一条规定传染病疫情信息公布制度。
Song also pointed out that Chapter 3 of the Infectious Disease Prevention and Control Act, which regulates reporting and reporting of epidemics, is the reporting, distribution and sharing of information between administrative systems, using only one system that provides for the disclosure of information on infectious diseases, he said.
他建议修法时明确国家、省级疾病预防控制机构发布信息的权力；他还建议明确公布疫情信息的内容，包括传染病疫情性质、原因；疫情发生地及范围；疫情的发病、伤亡及涉及的人员范围；疫情处理措施和控制情况等。
He recommended that the law be amended to clarify the powers of national and provincial disease prevention and control agencies to release information; he also recommended that the content of epidemic information, including the nature, cause, location and extent of the epidemic; the outbreak, casualties and the range of personnel involved; measures to address the outbreak; and control.
“封城”之后怎么办？2020年1月23日凌晨，武汉宣布“封城”。
What to do after the "closure"? In the early morning of January 23, 2020, Wuhan announced the "closure".
当日10时起，全市城市公交、地铁、轮渡、长途客运暂停运营；无特殊原因，市民不能离开武汉，机场、火车站离汉通道暂时关闭。
From 10: 00 a.m. on the same day, the city's public transport, subway, ferry, long-distance passenger transport operation was suspended; without special reasons, citizens could not leave Wuhan, the airport and railway stations from Han corridor temporarily closed.
王晨光指出，俗称的“封城”并不是法律术语，《传染病防治法》在疫情控制一章规定，封闭可能造成传染病扩散的场所、封锁疫区。
Wang pointed out that the so-called "closure" is not a legal term, the infectious diseases control law in the chapter on the control of epidemic diseases may cause the closure of sites and blockades of epidemic areas.
《突发事件应对法》在紧急措施中规定，关闭或者限制使用易受突发事件危害的场所，控制或者限制容易导致危害扩大的公共场所的活动；法律、法规、规章规定的其他必要的防范性、保护性措施。
The Emergency Response Law stipulates in emergency measures to close down or restrict the use of places vulnerable to emergencies, to control or restrict the activities of public places liable to cause increased harm, and other necessary preventive and protective measures provided for by laws, regulations and rules.
王晨光进一步解释，与传染病、公共卫生事件应急相关的各个法律之间不匹配，制定的时间、立法目的不同，法律规定不细、操作性不强，这些问题在此次疫情应对中有所暴露。
Wang further explained that the mismatch between various laws related to infectious diseases, public health emergencies, the different timing and legislative purposes, and the lack of detailed and operational legal provisions have been revealed in the response to the epidemic.
比如，这次官方并未宣布武汉或湖北为疫区，只是公布湖北省政府启动突发公共卫生事件二级（后改为一级）应急响应，进入战时状态。
This time, for example, the authorities did not declare Wuhan or Hubei an epidemic area, but merely announced that the Hubei provincial government had launched a second (and later a first) emergency response to a public health emergency and entered a wartime state.
宋华琳也认为，武汉事实上是采取了“封锁”，但并未依法宣布武汉为疫区，这是法律上的缺憾。
Song Hualin also believes that Wuhan is in fact adopted a "blockade," but did not legally declare Wuhan as an epidemic area, this is a legal defect.
在武汉“封城”之初，一度面临医疗防护物资匮乏，居民生活不便、物资运输困难等问题。
Wuhan "closure" at the beginning, once faced with a shortage of medical protection materials, residents living inconvenience, material transport difficulties and other problems.
宋华琳对《财经》记者表示，《传染病防治法》“疫情控制”一章，更多内容讨论如何控制疫情，程序方面只是规定了公告程序，并未规定必须要提前多长时间，并没有对采取控制措施时相对人权益的保障加以规定。
Song told Caijing that the "epidemic control" chapter of the Infectious Disease Prevention and Control Law contained more information on how to control the epidemic. The procedural aspect only provided for the announcement procedure, not the required period of advance, and did not provide for the protection of the rights and interests of the other party when control measures were taken.
“目前看更多体现的是控制，体现追求公共秩序、公共利益，目标是尽快‘控制和消除传染病的发生与流行’，对公民自由权、财产权限制的补偿，对程序权利的保障，对采取管控措施期间公民的生存权保障，都语焉不详。
"At present, it is more about control, the pursuit of public order, the public interest, the goal of 'controlling and eliminating the occurrence and prevalence of infectious diseases' as soon as possible, the compensation for restrictions on civil liberties and property rights, the guarantee of procedural rights and the guarantee of citizens' right to subsistence during the adoption of control measures.
”因此，宋华琳建议未来修法时，应明确在传染病暴发、流行时，采取紧急措施的程序，明确政府和相关部门有保障公民基本生活的义务。
Therefore, when revising the law in the future, Song Hua-lin recommends clarifying the procedures for taking emergency measures in the event of an outbreak or epidemic of an infectious disease, and making clear that the government and relevant departments have the obligation to guarantee the basic livelihood of citizens.
（《财经》记者信娜对此文亦有贡献）【版权声明】本作品著作权归《财经》独家所有，授权深圳市腾讯计算机系统有限公司独家享有信息网络传播权，任何第三方未经授权，不得转载。
The copyright in this work belongs exclusively to Caijing, and authorizes the Shenzhen Tencent Computer System Co., Ltd. to have exclusive rights to the dissemination of information networks. No third party may reproduce this work without authorization.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
谁有权发布疫情信息？专家联名呼吁修订传染病防治法。
Who has the right to release epidemic information? Experts jointly called for a revision of the infectious disease control law.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "谁有权发布疫情信息？专家联名呼吁修订传染病防治法";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Who has the right to release information about the epidemic?
var msg_desc = "​《传染病防治法》上一次修订是在“非典”疫情之后的2004年，此次新冠肺炎疫情又暴露出这部法律的一些短板和不足，专家建言修订涉及预警信息发布及疫区封锁等多个方面";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; The last revision of the Infectious Disease Prevention Act occurred in 2004, after the SARS epidemic, and exposed some of its weaknesses and shortcomings. Experts say it involves AT & quot; & quot; about early warning information and quarantine.
title: '传染病网络直报系统投资了7.3亿，为何失灵了28天？',。
Why has AT & amp; # 39; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '财经杂志',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
