他感染了，可仍在网上给患者看病。
He's infected, but he's still seeing patients online.
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
2月1日，西藏自治区第三人民医院医生土旦朗杰观看病人胸片。
On February 1, Tudanjie, a doctor at the Third People's Hospital of Tibet Autonomous Region, watched a chest film.
目前，西藏唯一一例确诊的新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎患者在此住院治疗。
At present, Tibet is the only confirmed case of a new coronavirus infection of pneumonia patients in this hospital.
觉果/摄新华社CNML图片作者杨海编辑 从玉华李亮是武汉某三甲医院的病房主任，从1月初，他就开始接触“疑似病例”。
From the beginning of January, the editor of Yang Hai, a ward director of a three-A hospital in Wuhan, was in contact with "suspected cases."
那时他还没有收到太多有关危险的预警，长时间在一位后来被确诊的患者床前职业暴露。
By then he had not received much warning of the dangers and had been exposed professionally for a long time in front of a patient who was later diagnosed.
最终，他在1月22日被确诊为新冠肺炎。
He was eventually diagnosed with pneumonia on January 22.
很快，他的家人也陆续出现发热等症状，后来全部被确认感染。
Soon, his family also developed fever and other symptoms, all of which were later confirmed to be infected.
这让一个从医17年，见惯了各种急重症状况的医生感受到了恐惧。
This is an agony aunt, as doctors are used to various acute medical conditions for 17 years.
疫情爆发后，他见证了医院发热门诊就医人数成倍增长，而当时制定的收治标准，把大部分患者拦在了病房外。
After the outbreak, he witnessed a doubling of hospital visits at the hospital's fever clinic, where admission standards were set to keep most patients out of the ward.
这些在他眼中完全可以被“临床确诊”的疑似病例，只能回到家中，或者去到任何他们想去的地方，成为众多“移动的感染源”。
Suspected cases, which he believes can be "clinically confirmed," can only be returned home, or wherever they want to go, to become a "mobile source of infection."
与他一起感染的还有3名护士，万幸的是，她们都是轻症，在家自我隔离后病情已经好转。
He was also infected with three nurses, all of whom, fortunately, were mild and had recovered from self-isolation at home.
一名护士已重返抗疫前线。
A nurse has returned to the front line.
现在他在医院的公众号上开通了网上问诊，一天接诊上百个患者。
Now he has opened an online consultation service on the hospital's public phone number, treating hundreds of patients a day.
经过休养后，李亮医生的身体状况已经有了好转。
After recuperating, Dr. Li Liang's health has improved.
他开通了网上诊疗，在线为发热病人看诊。
He opened an online clinic for febrile patients.
不到20个小时，就看了200多个病人。
In less than 20 hours, more than 200 patients were seen.
他的肺部CT显示还有些炎症，他说他想尽快回到一线。
His lung CT showed some inflammation and he said he wanted to get back to the front line as soon as possible.
以下为李亮的自述：我们科室病房平常收治的都是复杂一些的急重症病人，什么疾病都有，不只局限于呼吸道。
The following is Liang Liang's self-described: Our department wards are usually treated more complex patients with acute and severe diseases, not limited to the respiratory tract.
大概去年12月份就开始慢慢地出现（传言），说汉口出现了与华南海鲜市场有关的肺炎病人。
Slowly, perhaps last December, rumors began to emerge that there were pneumonia patients in Hankou in connection with the South China seafood market.
但是我们在武昌，相当于在另外一个区域，就没那么在意。
But we were in Wuchang, which is equivalent to being in another area and not that concerned.
到12月底，我就发现网上传的病例有增加，再加上卫健委给医院发了通知，要求上报不明原因肺炎患者，大家就比以前更注意发热咳嗽的病人了。
By the end of December, I had noticed an increase in the number of cases transmitted online, which, together with the notification given to hospitals by the Health Protection Board to report cases of unexplained pneumonia, had made people pay more attention to patients with fever and coughing than before.
卫健委也发了一些常规的诊断标准，然后大概从1月初，这些病人明显地就增多了。
The health committee also issued some routine diagnostic criteria, and by early January these patients had apparently increased.
当时我们已经开始成立发热门诊，有些病人就在那里看，也在急诊看。
We were already setting up a fever clinic, and some of the patients were there to see it, too.
当时的诊断标准过于苛刻，很多病人实际上出现了漏诊或者没有被重视。
Diagnostic criteria were too stringent at the time, and many patients actually missed or were not taken seriously.
规定患者必须有华南海鲜市场接触史，还必须至少使用抗生素规范治疗3天无明显改善后，以及其他一些条件，才能被筛查有没有感染不明原因肺炎。
Patients must have a history of exposure to the South China seafood market and must be screened for unexplained pneumonia after at least three days of no significant improvement in antibiotic standard treatment, among other conditions.
我们是1月8号开始正式启动科室病房作为发热隔离病房，等于提供了一个临床疑似病人的隔离区域。
We officially opened the section ward as a fever isolation ward on January 8, providing an isolated area for clinically suspected patients.
但是我接触的那个病人是在1月5号，也就是我们的隔离病房启用之前，我就已经接触到重症肺炎病人了。
But the patient I came in contact with was already in contact with a severe pneumonia patient on January 5, before our isolation ward opened.
他是从地县级市医院那里转来的，因为没有华南市场的接触史，所以他就不符合不明原因肺炎的诊断条件，导致了大家对他传染病的职业暴露。
He was transferred from the county hospital because he did not have a history of contact with the South China market, so he did not meet the criteria for the diagnosis of unexplained pneumonia, leading to occupational exposure to his infectious diseases.
这个病人当时就是肺炎的症状:发烧、咳嗽。
The patient was symptomatic of pneumonia: a fever, a cough.
我们CT已经确诊了，临床上高度怀疑是病毒性肺炎，但是按照当时的诊断标准是不够的，又不能把他放走，所以我们就观察了两天。
Our CT has confirmed that there is a high level of clinical suspicion of viral pneumonia, but according to the diagnostic criteria at the time, it was not enough and he could not be released, so we observed it for two days.
那时我们的病房还没有被征用，就是一个综合性病房。
Our ward, which had not been requisitioned at the time, was a general ward.
我们医护人员就是简单防护，普通的外科口罩，常规的呼吸道防护。
Our paramedics are simply protective, ordinary surgical masks, and routine respiratory protection.
不过我们把他独立地放到一个区域里面，没有和别人交叉。
But we put him in a separate area, without crossing with anyone else.
我和护理组接触时间比较长。
My contact time with the nursing team was longer.
我要有足够的时间来问诊、查体，护理的时间也比较长。
I want to have enough time for consultation, physical examination, nursing time is also relatively long.
一般都是跟传染病人密切接触才会被传染，不会说短时间一下被传染，这种传染机会比较小。
Infection usually occurs in close contact with the person affected by the infection. It is not said to be contagious in a short time, and the chance of infection is relatively low.
目前来看都是相对长时间暴露才会感染，这就是为什么现在家庭聚集式发病特别厉害，并不是说你坐一下公交车上就能被传染。
It's been a relatively long period of exposure to infection, which is why it's especially bad for family gatherings these days, not that you can catch the infection on a bus.
后来我被请去金银谭医院会诊，看到一个病人上了ECMO（人工心肺），那时候就意识到这个病很严重了。
Later I was invited to Gold and Silver Tan Hospital to consult and saw a patient on ECMO (Artificial Cardiopulmonary), when I realized that the disease was serious.
1月8日设立隔离病房之后，我们的防护就上来了，医院要求必须二级预防。
After the isolation ward was set up on January 8th, our protection came up and the hospital required secondary prevention.
那时我们的病人也越来越多，我们设置15张床位，准备收治14个病人，但是前面5天每天都是超负荷，不停地运转。
We had 15 beds for 14 patients, but for the first five days we were overloaded and kept going.
刚开始还能保证发热门诊的收治，发热门诊转来五六个临床上可能要住院的，我们就能收治，但第六天开始就完全不能保障了。
At first we were able to ensure the admission of the fever clinic, five or six clinically possible hospitalizations, but from the beginning of the sixth day we were completely unprotected.
其实那个时候，我们医院开辟了一些新的病区，感染科开辟了新的病区，ICU也腾了17张床。
In fact, at that time, our hospital opened up a number of new disease areas, infection departments opened up new areas, ICU also made 17 beds.
但这种状态也不足以抵挡高发的病人，因为大多数病人基本上都是临床上确诊，只是还没有做核酸检测而已。
But this state of affairs is not enough to ward off a high incidence of patients, most of whom are clinically diagnosed but have not yet been tested for nucleic acids.
当时没有条件做核酸检测，没有人下发试剂盒。
Nucleic acid tests were not available, and no kits were issued.
另外，因为必须要按照当时的诊断标准，病人要有华南（海鲜市场）接触史，抗生素标准治疗三天无明显改善、常见呼吸道病原检测都是阴性后，才能做筛查。
In addition, screening was not possible until patients had a history of exposure to South China (seafood market), no significant improvement in standard antibiotic treatment for three days and negative tests for common respiratory pathogens, according to the diagnostic criteria of the time.
所以以当时的苛刻条件，顶多只能有三分之一的病人才能申请核酸检测。
As a result, under the harsh conditions of the day, only a third of patients could apply for a nucleic acid test.
再说，就算在我们这抗生素治疗三天无效以后，可以核酸检测了，又涉及到一些检测方法偏移的问题，有假阴性。
Moreover, even after our antibiotic treatment had failed for three days, nucleic acid testing could have been done, and some of the test methods had been deflected, with false negatives.
直到1月16日国家卫健委制定新型肺炎诊疗方案，把一些标准修改，比如不再要求病人有华南市场接触史，而是武汉旅游史等等，之前当地的诊疗标准才废止，这时疑似病例就开始多了起来。
Until January 16, when the National Fitness and Health Commission worked out a new diagnosis and treatment plan for pneumonia, some standard changes, such as no longer requiring patients to have access to the South China market, but Wuhan tourism history and so on, before the local standard of diagnosis and treatment was abolished, then more suspected cases began to appear.
后来病人越来越多，医生护士感染的机会越来越多，因为各个科室都可能有病人，不一定只是发热的科室。
As the number of patients increases, so does the chance for doctors and nurses to become infected, as each section may have patients, not necessarily a febrile section.
他们有可能去呼吸内科，有可能去外科做手术，有肾内科做透析的。
They may go to the respiratory department, they may have surgery, they may have kidney dialysis.
你会发现那段时间医生护士特别容易中标。
You'll find that doctors and nurses were particularly easy to win during that time.
因为没有保护，只有隔离病房这种明知道要收治这些病人的科室，才会加强防护。
Because there is no protection, protection will be strengthened only in isolation wards, which are the ones that know how to treat these patients.
ICU、我们科室，中标的医生护士慢慢就会少很多了。
ICU, our department, the winning doctors and nurses will gradually be much less.
社会上最开始知道有这些事情的，都是我们医院内部，我们也可以做一些核酸检测，虽然只限于感染的医生，相当于以科研的方式在做，筛查中标的同事。
When society first learned about these things, it was inside our hospital, and we could do some nucleic acid testing, albeit limited to infected doctors, in a scientific way, screening our winning colleagues.
所以，我们医院算是防护做得比较早的。
Therefore, our hospital is a relatively early protection.
我是医院几个固定的发热会诊专家，我们有三个人。
I'm a few of the hospital's regular calorific experts, and we have three.
我看到的是，发热门诊从开设时的一天200多人，到300多人，到400多人，就这样逐渐增加。
I see a steady increase in the number of fever clinics, from more than 200 a day when they were opened, to more than 300 to more than 400.
我们的发热门诊从开设那一天就是24小时一直运转的，很多患者要从白天等到半夜才能看上。
Our fever clinic was running 24 hours a day from the day it opened, and many patients had to wait until midnight to see it.
但是问题解决不了，有很多病人没法住院，没法进行核酸检测，只能回家。
But the problem cannot be solved. Many patients cannot be hospitalized, cannot be tested for nucleic acids, and have to go home.
发热门诊基本上都是从各个科室抽调的专家、医生。
The fever clinic is basically drawn from the various departments of experts, doctors.
医生本身工作量就很大，每个医生在两个地方来回跑，又有那么多输液的，远远超出了平常的接诊量，又不能到点了就关门，不能关。
The doctor himself was a heavy worker, running from one place to another, carrying so much fluid that it was far in excess of the usual intake, and failing to close at the appointed time, could not be closed.
病人也是很多很多的。
There are a lot of patients, too.
只要有疑似的病人，我们三个会诊的专家必须都签字后才能往下一个流程走，比如收治到急诊病房，或者留观等。
As long as there are suspected patients, we three consultation experts have to sign before moving on to the next process, such as admission to the emergency ward, or observation.
这是硬性规定，三个专家分别来自医院的感染科、呼吸科和急诊科。
It is mandatory for the three specialists to be from the Infection, Respiratory and Emergency Departments of the hospital.
在我被感染前，我一天至少去发热门诊三四十趟，一次会诊大概2~3个病人。
Before I got infected, I went to the fever clinic at least thirty to forty times a day, and had a consultation of about two to three patients at a time.
实际上我们去会诊的病人基本上就可以临床确诊了。
In fact, the patients we visited were almost clinically confirmed.
我感觉感染这个肺炎的患者，能占发热门诊病人的一多半。
I feel that this pneumonia infected patients, can account for more than half of the fever clinic patients.
但我们只能收治那么几个，所以当时病人的压力和情绪都很大。
But we were able to treat only a few of them, so the stress and mood of the patients were very high.
病人跟我没什么冲突，但是跟坐诊的医生冲突就不少。
The patient and I had no trouble, but there was a lot of conflict with the doctor.
但是没办法，我看到了也没办法，因为床位就是这么多，收满了，治疗的周期也长，都是十几二十天的，周转很慢。
But no way, I can not see it, because there are so many beds, full, treatment cycle, are a dozen or twenty days, the turnover is very slow.
我当时就判断这个病传染力会很强，会人传人，但没有人去确定这个事情。
I judged at the time that the disease would be highly contagious, from person to person, but no one was sure of it.
你不确定人传人，大家的流动性就很大，社会一片祥和。
You are not sure of the person-to-person, people's mobility is very large, a peaceful society.
然后大家正常准备过年，就都闷在锅里。
Then we normally prepare for the New Year, we are all stuffy in the pot.
当时的诊断标准严苛，所以很多临床就已经确诊的病人没法收治。
Diagnostic criteria were strict, so many patients who had already been clinically diagnosed could not be treated.
那段时间外面比较平静，但是我们医院这边已经要炸开锅了。
It was a quiet time outside, but our hospital was about to blow up.
疑似病人越来越多，都是成倍增长。
Suspected patients are on the increase and are multiplying.
而且我们收治的病人都是家族性的，肯定是有人传人的。
And the patients we treat are all familial and must have been handed down from person to person.
我们第一天就有这种情况，有时候我们15张床收治了4个家庭的。
We had this the first day, sometimes we had 15 beds for four families.
后来我们医院就按照最强的传染性做的准备，当时就是按照“非典”那时的防护标准。
Later, our hospital was prepared for the most infectious disease, in accordance with the SARS protection standards of the time.
我把这种危险告诉病人，但是没用，我甚至告诉我的家人都没用，没人信，大家都不信“邪”，没办法。
I told the patient the danger, but it didn't work. I even told my family that it was useless, no one believed it, no one believed it.
直到自己或者家人被感染后，媒体开始集中报道后，大家才开始害怕。
It wasn't until they or their families got infected, and the media began to focus on the story, that people began to fear.
这个病很独特的，它的CT影像和临床表现都很独特，我之前从来没见过这些特征。
The disease is unique in that it has unique CT images and clinical manifestations that I have never seen before.
本来病毒性肺炎的病人就很少，我以前接收过腺病毒或者禽流感的，但那些病人的病情进展和他们不一样。
Viral pneumonia is rare. I've had adenoviruses or bird flu before, but those patients are not progressing the same way.
你如果作为一个常规的医生，通过两三天的看诊，你就基本上知道它是一个独特的病，不需要通过核酸检测判断，根本不需要。
If you go through two or three days as a regular doctor, you basically know that it is a unique disease that does not require a nucleic acid test and does not need to be evaluated at all.
我是在17号开始发烧，三十七八度吧，当时没有别的症状。
I had a fever on the 17th. Thirty-eight degrees. There were no other symptoms.
我做了几次肺部CT都是正常的，就考虑可能是上呼吸道感染。
I had a few pulmonary CT findings that were normal, and I thought maybe it was an upper respiratory infection.
因为医院很重视我的病情，我们当时有咽喉部的新型冠状病毒咽拭子检测，一查是阳性，就确诊了。
Because the hospital attached great importance to my illness, we had a pharyngeal Department of the new coronavirus swabs test, a positive test, was confirmed.
确诊后就被隔离了。
He's been isolated since the diagnosis.
后来又出现了咳嗽的症状，再后来复查的时候肺部也出现问题了。
Then came the symptoms of coughing, which was followed by problems in the lungs.
我确诊前后脚，跟我一起搭班的3个护士也感染了，最早的一个在13号就确诊了。
I diagnosed the front and back, and the three nurses I worked with were also infected, the first one being diagnosed on the 13th.
因为回家前在医院已经隔离几天了，查了CT又没问题，我17号就回家休息了。
Because I had been isolated in the hospital for a few days before I got home, checked CT and no problem, I went home on the 17th to rest.
头天晚上回家，第二天中午就开始畏寒，我就回单位了。
I went home the night before and started to cringe at noon the next day, and I went back to work.
就在家待了半天，家人全部感染上了，开始咳嗽、发烧，我的爱人，两个孩子，还有一位老人，都感染了。
After being at home for a long time, my family got infected, started coughing, had a fever, and my lover, two children, and an old man all got infected.
好在家人症状都比较轻，在家里我和身体稍微好一点的老人照顾其他人，相当于病人照顾病人。
Fortunately, the family symptoms are relatively light, at home I and slightly better elderly care for others, the equivalent of patients to care for the sick.
家人都感染后，我对这个病毒有了亲身的体会，全新的认识，真的感受到了恐惧。
After my family became infected, I had a personal experience of the virus, a new understanding, a real sense of fear.
但我还是想尽快回到一线，因为“那里什么都缺”。
But I want to get back to the front line as soon as possible, because "there is a shortage of everything."
注：为保护受访者隐私，李亮为化名。
Note: To protect the privacy of the interviewee, Li Liang is an alias.
本文由中国青年报独立出品，首发在中国青年报客户端及头条号，加入树木计划。
This article is produced independently by China Youth Daily, first published in China Youth Daily client and headline number, joined the tree project.
觉得好看请点这里。
I think so. Please click here.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
他感染了，可仍在网上给患者看病。
He's infected, but he's still seeing patients online.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "他感染了，可仍在网上给患者看病";。
var msg _ title = & quot; He was infected, but still at & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; on the Internet.
var msg_desc = "期待他早日返回抗疫一线。
var msg _ desc = & quot; looks forward to his early return to the front line.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
