李文亮生前所在医院之痛。
Li Wenliang was in hospital pain.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 活粒。
The following article comes from living grains.
Author 活粒。
Author live granules.
活粒。
Live granules.
联动三医，桥接资本，直达健康。
Connect three medicine, bridge capital, directly to health.
武汉市中心医院在此次新冠肺炎疫情中最先陷落，医护人员伤亡最重。
Wuhan city central hospital in the new crown pneumonia in the first fall, the most casualties of medical personnel.
航空业关于飞行安全的“海恩法则”，同样适用于传染病防控，应该检视每一个细节进入武汉市中心医院发热门诊通道。
The aviation industry's "Hein Law" on flight safety, which also applies to infectious disease control, should be examined for every detail into the Wuhan Central Hospital fever clinic.
《财经》记者信娜/摄影文|《财经》特派武汉记者 信娜 刘以秦 王小《财经》记者 孙爱民 房宫一柳编辑|王小一份武汉市中心医院的《新型冠状病毒疫情处置情况说明》，经该院内部人士之手传到几家媒体，这家有140年历史的医院被拉入了舆论漩涡。
Caijing reporter Caijing & amp; Caijing & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot
每个人都试图厘清：在2019年12月底到2020年1月底究竟发生了什么，致使多名武汉市中心医院医护人员感染新冠病毒。
Everyone is trying to figure out what happened between the end of December 2019 and the end of January 2020, causing many Wuhan central hospital staff to contract the new crown virus.
《财经》记者获得一份武汉市中心医院文件显示，截至2月9日17时，武汉市中心医院共上报职工新冠肺炎确诊病例68例。
As of 17: 00 on February 9, 68 cases of confirmed cases of new crown pneumonia had been reported to Wuhan Central Hospital, according to a document obtained by Caijing.
院外门诊观察147人，住院142人，纳入医学观察医务人员共266人。
Out-patient observation 147 people, 142 hospitalized, medical observation medical personnel a total of 266.
可以看出，这些病例感染大多发生在2020年1月。
As can be seen, most of these infections occurred in January 2020.
刚进入3月，武汉市中心医院有三位医生因新冠肺炎去世，加上之前离世的李文亮医生，该院已有4位医生撒手人寰，还有4位医生在重症室。
Just in March, three doctors died of pneumonia at Wuhan Central Hospital, adding to the death of Dr. Lee, who died earlier. Four doctors have died and four are in the intensive care unit.
进入武汉市中心医院发热门诊通道。
Enter Wuhan city central hospital febrile clinic channel.
《财经》记者信娜/摄影武汉市中心医院成为此次抗疫中最惨烈的医院。
Caijing reporter Xinna / Photography Wuhan City Central Hospital became the most brutal of the epidemic.
在其医护人员的微信群中，辩论激烈，认知分裂。
In the microcosm of its medical staff, debate is intense and cognitive divisions are rife.
一部分医护人员认为，在当时的情况下，医院已尽了最大努力，多人感染，是防护装备不足、人传人知道得太晚；另一部分人则认为，领导层和医院感控部门疏忽，盲目遵从当时市政府发出的指令，专业能力不够，导致战友一个个倒下。
Some considered that, in the circumstances, the hospital had done its best, that many people were infected with inadequate protective equipment and were known from person to person too late, while others believed that the leadership and hospital sentinel services had been negligent in complying blindly with the instructions issued by the municipal government at the time and that their professional abilities were insufficient, causing their comrades to fall apart.
武汉市中心医院一位副院长对《财经》记者说：“我对医院管理的理解是持续改进。
"My understanding of hospital management is one of continuous improvement," a vice-dean of Wuhan Central Hospital told Caijing.
”训诫，比防控来得快九省通衢的武汉，少不了水。
Wuhan, which has thoroughfare of nine provinces rather than thoroughfare, must have water.
用水系标识不同的地理位置，也在情理之中。
It also makes sense to use water systems to identify different geographic locations.
即便城市变迁中，原本的湖泊变成陆地，约定的称呼一直延续，后湖便是其中之一。
Even if the city changes, the original lake into land, the agreed title has been continued, Houhu is one of them.
武汉市中心医院始建于1880年，其前身为汉口天主堂医院。
Wuhan Central Hospital was founded in 1880 and its predecessor was Hankou Catholic Hospital.
这家医院是后湖地区唯一的三甲医院，距此次新冠肺炎疫情的始发地——华南海鲜市场，约2公里。
The hospital, the only triple-A hospital in the Houhu area, is about 2 kilometers from the southern Chinese seafood market, where the outbreak originated.
武汉市中心医院《新型冠状病毒疫情处置情况说明》显示，2019年12月29日下午2点半左右，后湖院区急诊科医生彭欢致电院公共卫生科,“科室刚刚接诊了四例来自华南海鲜市场的病人，CT检查发现，肺部都有问题，查血综合判断，都是病毒性肺炎的表现。
"On December 29, 2019, around 2: 30 pm, emergency department doctor Peng Huan phoned the hospital's public health department." The department has just received four patients from the South China seafood market, and the CT examination found that the lungs have problems and a comprehensive blood test is the manifestation of viral pneumonia.
”武汉市中心医院现有后湖院区、南京路院区、新洲院区三个院区。
The central hospital in Wuhan City now has three campuses: Houhu courtyard area, Nanjing Road courtyard district and Xinzhou courtyard district.
后湖院区接诊了4例和华南海鲜市场有关的发热病人，彭欢直接于2019年12月29日向院公共卫生科上报了这4例；30日，南京路院区呼吸与危重症医学科拿到一份患者肺泡纤维支气管镜灌洗取样的检测报告，写着“SARS冠状病毒”。
On December 29, 2019, Peng Huan received a report from the Department of Respiratory and Critical Medicine of Nanking Road Hospital. He received a report on the examination of pulmonary alveolar fiberoptic bronchoscopy in patients with SARS coronavirus.
后湖院区急诊科艾芬告诉《财经》记者，看到这份检测报告她害怕了，第一时间向医院公共卫生科和院感部门报告。
Eiffen, an emergency department in the backlake courtyard, told Caijing that she was afraid to see the test report and immediately reported it to the hospital's public health and hospital departments.
《财经》记者获得一份内部说明显示，当天，南京路院区上报了检测结果“SARS冠状病毒”的病例。
Caijing Road courtyard district reported the test result "SARS coronavirus" the case, according to an internal note obtained by Caijing News.
《新型冠状病毒疫情处置情况说明》显示，2019年12月29日晚20时左右，江汉区疾控中心和市应急办抵达公卫科工作人员院后湖院区，对7例病人进行了流行病学调查和采样，并于当晚连夜送市疾控中心采样。
According to the Statement on the Treatment of the New Coronavirus Epidemic Disease, the CDC and EMO of Jianghan District arrived at the backlake courtyard of the Public Health Personnel Hospital at about 20: 00 pm on December 29, 2019.
同一天下午，接到湖北省中西医结合医院（湖北省新华医院）报告的不明原因肺炎病例，湖北省疾控中心、武汉市疾控中心，会同江汉、硚口、东西湖区疾控中心，共同开展流行病学调查。
On the afternoon of the same day, an unknown case of pneumonia was reported from the Hubei combined Chinese and Western Medicine Hospital (Xinhua Hospital in Hubei Province). The CDC of Hubei Province and Wuhan City, together with Jiang Han, Zhangkou and the CDC, jointly conducted an epidemiological investigation.
武汉市卫健委副主任郑云接受《财经》记者采访时，证实了此次调查，并表示：“12月29日，武汉市卫健委接到湖北中西医结合医院的疫情报道，第一次知晓了此次疫情，三级疾控部门调查组去了该医院调查。
In an interview with Caijing, the deputy director of Wuhan Health and Wellness Commission confirmed the investigation and said: "On December 29, Wuhan Weijian committee received the report of Hubei combined Chinese and Western medicine hospital, first learned of the outbreak, the CDC investigation team of level III went to the hospital for investigation.
”相隔2.5公里的武汉市中心医院，在这一天没有等来三级疾控部门调查组。
The Wuhan Central Hospital, 2.5 kilometers apart, did not wait for the CDC III investigation team on that day.
郑云说，没去武汉市中心医院，但并未解释原因。
Zheng said he did not go to Wuhan city central hospital, but did not explain why.
同为三甲医院，武汉市中心医院归武汉市卫健委管理；中西医结合医院则是湖北省卫健委直属的国家三甲医院。
Also known as Sanjia Hospital, Wuhan Central Hospital is under the management of Wuhan Health Commission, and the combination of Chinese and Western Medicine is the National Sanjia Hospital under Hubei Wei Bodyguard Committee.
“省属大医院作为领军，可迅速判断，很快提出自己的诊疗方案，具有国家医疗标杆水平，而市属医院，实力不够，资源也不够，又得遵从市政府的管理规定。
"The provincial hospitals, as leaders, are quick to judge and quickly propose their own diagnosis and treatment plan with the level of a national medical benchmark, while the municipal hospitals have insufficient strength and resources and are subject to municipal regulations.
”一位武汉市中心医院外科医生对《财经》记者分析，该院在疫情中处于尴尬位置，比上资源、实力不够，对下还得有带头作用，同时要紧遵市政府的指令。
A surgeon at Wuhan Central Hospital told Caijing that the hospital was in an awkward position in the outbreak, with less resources and less strength than it had before, and must take the lead and comply with the city government's instructions.
《新型冠状病毒疫情处置情况说明》中写道，2020年1月5日，辖区卫健委组织开会，传达市级指导手册的精神。
On January 5, 2020, the Health Care Commission of the Bailiwick organized a meeting to convey the spirit of the Municipal Guidance Manual, as stated in the Note on the Handling of the New Coronavirus Epidemic.
“会后，我与区卫健局医政科科长沟通区级专家会诊应该报给谁、怎样报，医政科回复：我院属于市属医院，应由市级专家会诊，区级无法会诊市级医院。
"After the meeting, I communicated with the chief of the District Health Bureau Medical Section who should be reported to the district expert consultation, how to report, the Medical Department replied: Our hospital is a municipal hospital, should be consulted by municipal experts, district level can not consult municipal hospitals.
我当场致电市卫健委医政处，市医政处表示：医院应该由属地管辖，区卫健局的同志理解有偏差，他帮忙协调此事。
I called the municipal health administration office on the spot. The municipal medical office said that the hospital should be under territorial jurisdiction.
随后，区医政科的同事同意由区级组织专家会诊，但同时也表示，今后应该由医院医务处的同志跟她联系会诊事宜。
Subsequently, colleagues in the District Medical Section agreed to organize expert consultations at the district level, but indicated that in future it would be up to the comrades in the hospital medical services to contact her for consultations.
”这份说明时间是2020年2月8日，说明人是武汉市中心医院公共卫生科的殷维。
The statement, dated Feb. 8, 2020, shows Yin Wei of Wuhan Central Hospital's Public Health Department.
说明中写：“12月31日，我电话询问江汉区疾控中心副主任张艳采样结果，张艳主任告知需等通知。
The note said: "On December 31, I called Jiang Han District CDC Deputy Director Zhang Yan sampling results, Zhang Yan told the need to wait for notification.
1月3日，我致电江汉区疾控中心王文勇科长，询问前期电话报告的7例病毒性肺炎，是否应该报告传染病报告卡。
On January 3, I telephoned Wang Wenyong, the chief of the CDC of JiangHan District, to enquire whether the seven cases of viral pneumonia reported earlier should be reported as infectious disease reports.
王科长回复，对于此类特殊传染病，等上级通知后再上报，具体上报病种等通知。
Section Chief Wang replied that such special infectious diseases, such as higher level notification after reporting, specific reporting of diseases and other notifications.
”从中可见，武汉市中心医院上报疫情遵从的是辖区管理。
As can be seen, Wuhan Central Hospital reported the outbreak in accordance with the jurisdiction of management.
当病人涌入、各个医院防护物资告急时，武汉市多个医院的医护人员自发对外发布求助信息，“多一个求助渠道，就多一分希望”。
When the influx of patients, the emergency of various hospital protection materials, Wuhan City, many hospital medical staff spontaneously issued help information, "one more recourse, more hope."
1月23日，武汉市中心医院正式对外发布“急需抗击新型肺炎防护物资”。
On January 23, Wuhan Central Hospital officially issued the "urgent need to combat the new pneumonia protection materials."
1月31日，时任武汉市委书记马国强对外表示：“我们强调所有捐赠物资一定要通过红十字会，目的就是要让捐赠者捐赠的物资、资金的使用能够及时准确的登记在案。
"We stress that all donations must go through the Red Cross," said then-Wuhan Communist Party secretary Ma Guoqiang on January 31. "The goal is to have the materials and funds donated by donors registered in a timely and accurate manner.
”“市政府是指定红十字会统一做这件事，我们医院一度停止募捐了”上述武汉市中心医院外科医生说。
"The city government designated the Red Cross to do the same, and our hospital stopped raising money for a time," said the surgeon at Wuhan Central Hospital.
募捐过程的一波三折，该医院遵守的是武汉市政府的规则。
Fundraising process ups and downs, the hospital is in compliance with Wuhan city government rules.
其实，当时有些大医院并未停止募捐。
In fact, some of the major hospitals did not stop collecting money.
2月1日上午10点多，国家卫健委直属的武汉协和医院食堂一侧，《财经》记者见到有工作人员在清点少量个人及企业捐赠。
At 10: 00 a.m. on February 1, "Caijing" reporter saw a small number of individual and corporate donations counted on the side of the Wuhan Huihe Hospital canteen directly under the National Health Commission.
两名工作人员推车搬运两箱口罩，一箱1000个。
Two staff carts carry two boxes of masks, one each for 1,000.
还有一车羽绒服。
And a load of down jacket.
现场捐赠方负责人对《财经》记者说，天气凉，希望医生能暖和点。
The head of the donor community told Caijing that it was cold and hoped the doctor would be warmer.
武汉市中心医院因谨遵当时市里发出的指令，引发院内人员不满。
Wuhan Central Hospital for compliance with the instructions issued at that time, the hospital staff dissatisfaction.
多位医生表示，医院物资告急时，医生以个人名义求援。
Doctors say they seek help in their own name when hospital supplies are in emergency.
被医院监察科通知，不许私人募捐。
Notified by the hospital inspectorate. Private fundraising is not allowed.
“一线医生一度没有N95口罩，只能戴两层一次性的医用口罩进病房。
"First-line doctors once had no N95 masks and had to wear only two disposable medical masks to enter the ward.
一位一线医生的医学院同学，通过校友会募捐了一些KF94口罩，私下送了进来。
A first-line medical student, through the alumni association, collected a few KF94 masks and brought them in privately.
”一位武汉市中心医院重症科医务人员说。
"said an intensive care unit at Wuhan Central Hospital.
2月初，“同事拉了半吨大米赞助，要知道2月初交通条件及防护条件很紧张，司机是舍生忘死的送来。
At the beginning of February, my colleagues sponsored half a ton of rice, knowing that the traffic conditions and the protection conditions were very tight in early February.
结果医院因不是医用物资没收，退回去，各方闹得很不愉快。
As a result, the hospital was not confiscated medical supplies, returned, the parties made a very unpleasant scene.
最讽刺的是，没两天，医院食堂断粮了。
Most ironically, within two days, the hospital cafeteria ran out of food.
非常时期，医护人员和病人都在医院食堂吃。
Medical staff and patients eat in the hospital canteen during the emergency.
典型的没能力。
Typical incompetence.
不过，断粮没过3天，没饿我们太久，知耻而后勇跟上了。
However, the food did not last three days, we did not hungry for too long, shame on the follow-up.
”一位武汉市中心医院的医护人员说。
"said a medical worker at Wuhan Central Hospital.
直到2月6日，武汉市中心医院再次对外发布“急需抗击新型肺炎防护物资”。
Until February 6, Wuhan Central Hospital issued a new "urgent need to combat the new pneumonia protection material".
李文亮之外，他的同事王文（化名）也同时获得了不明原因肺炎信息，随后在一个校友群里发出警示：只要有一人感染，很快会传染给周围的人，预计最后感染人数会超过1万。
In addition, his colleague Wang Wen-liang (not his real name) also received information about pneumonia for unknown reasons, and then warned a group of alumni that if one person became infected, it would quickly infect those around him and the number of final infections was expected to exceed 10,000.
2019年12月30日晚上10点，王文收到医院转发的市卫健委通知：关于不明原因肺炎，不要随意对外发布，一旦发现因信息泄露造成群众恐慌事件，市卫健委将严肃查处！任何人和组织不得擅自发布相关诊疗信息，不得将工作文件外传，以免引起社会恐慌！情节严重将被追责！有知情人士告诉《财经》记者，将检测报告拍下来的医务工作者，于2020年1月1日晚，接到武汉市中心医院监察科的电话。
On December 30, 2019, at 10: 00 pm, Wang Wen received a notification from the hospital to the municipal health committee: regarding pneumonia due to unknown causes, do not release information at will, if the public panic caused by the leakage of information, people and organizations should not release relevant medical information, so as not to cause social panic!
在第二天的约谈中，有关医务工作者被批评“这种不负责任的行为导致了社会恐慌，影响了武汉市发展、稳定的局面”。
In an interview the following day, the medical staff concerned were criticized for "the irresponsible behavior that caused social panic and affected the development and stability of Wuhan."
知道得最早，防控却偏迟2月15日，一名市民在雪中前行。
The first known, but the prevention and control of February 15, a citizen in the snow.
当日，受强冷空气南下影响，武汉气温骤降，午后迎来雨雪天气。
On that day, under the influence of strong cold air southward, Wuhan temperature plummeted, ushered in rain and snow in the afternoon.
图/新华队友的倒下，对其他医护人员的冲击力是非常大的。
Figure / Xinhua team-mates fall, the impact on other medical personnel is very large.
“武汉市中心医院的医护人员情绪确实很消沉，我能够理解。
"The medical staff at Wuhan Central Hospital is really depressed, I can understand.
”一位支援武汉市中心医院的医疗队负责人回忆，有一次一位护士引导其去其他病区，我问了一句，怎么没见杨名院长。
The head of a medical team supporting Wuhan Central Hospital recalled one time when a nurse led him to another sick area and I asked how I had not seen Dean Yang.
护士回过头，冷冷地说一句，杨院长病倒了，隔离了。
The nurse turned her head and said coldly that Dean Yang was ill and isolated.
“当时我们就蒙了”，也许自己不经意间的一句话可能伤害到了医护人员的心。
"At that time we were blindsided," perhaps inadvertently a sentence may have hurt the heart of the medical staff.
3月12日，《财经》记者获悉，杨名副院长已经康复，于3月9日到岗重回一线。
On March 12, Caijing reported that Vice President Yang had recovered and returned to his post on March 9.
最先意识到危险的是一线医务人员，也正是他们最早发起阻截新冠病毒的行动。
The first to be aware of the danger was front-line medical personnel, who were the first to launch the operation to intercept the new crown virus.
《财经》记者与多位武汉市中心医院医生的访谈中发现，没有人能记起接到过院里加强防护的通知。
In interviews with doctors at Wuhan Central Hospital, Caijing reporter found that no one remembered being notified of increased protection in the hospital.
有人能记起来的是，1月16日的一次科室主任和院领导参加的医院周会，以及 1月中旬的视频会议，两次会议皆提及感染控制，提醒戴口罩。
It may be recalled that on 16 January, a weekly hospital meeting was attended by section directors and hospital heads, as well as a videoconference in mid-January, both of which referred to infection control and reminded the wearing of masks.
上述武汉市中心医院某负责人告诉《财经》记者，1月初的时候，医院感染防控（院感）部门肯定提醒了需要防护。
At the beginning of January, hospital infection control departments were a sure reminder of the need for protection, a director of Wuhan Central Hospital told Caijing.
而武汉市中心医院一位心内科医生和心外科医生的微信对话显示，“我们一月份上门诊，咋没人告诉我们要戴口罩。
"We went to the clinic in January and nobody told us to wear masks," said a microphone conversation between a cardiologist and a cardiologist at Wuhan Central Hospital.
”“我的N95口罩是1月4日自己买的。
"" My N95 mask I bought myself on January 4.
”一位院感护士告诉《财经》记者，1月初，其所在的院感微信群曾提示，需要戴好口罩，勤洗手。
A hospital nurse told Caijing that in early January, its emotional community had warned of the need to wear masks and wash hands frequently.
也是在1月份，院感群内曾多次发课件和信息，还组织过全院视频培训。
Also in January, the hospital sensuous group had distributed courseware and information several times, also organized the whole hospital video training.
这个微信群，包括医院院感部门工作人员，以及各科室负责院感的医生和护士。
This micro-community includes hospital staff, as well as hospital-based doctors and nurses in various sections.
从1月初开始，武汉市中心医院收治了很多病人，包括普通的肺炎、发热患者。
Since the beginning of January, Wuhan Central Hospital has admitted many patients, including ordinary pneumonia, fever patients.
“60岁以上的人，很多出生在我们医院，人们更愿意去熟悉的医院，因此大量病人涌入。
"People over the age of 60, many of whom were born in our hospital, prefer to go to familiar hospitals, so there is an influx of patients.
”上述外科医生说。
"said the surgeon.
核酸检测试剂盒在1月底才到武汉市中心医院，“现在回想，我们科室会有人感染，可能是收治的其他疾病的病人当时已经感染了。
Nucleic acid test kits arrived at Wuhan Central Hospital only at the end of January. "Looking back, people in our department will get infected.
”上述重症科医务人员对《财经》记者说，1月初，重症科收治了一名80多岁男性患者，他在华南海鲜市场附近居住，当时发热、咳嗽、喘，明显是肺炎的表现，住院十多天，出院第二天去世。
"In early January, the intensive care unit admitted a male patient in his 80s who was living near the South China seafood market with fever, cough and asthma, apparently pneumonia, was hospitalized for more than 10 days and died the day after his discharge, the medical staff told Caijing.
“在得知这名患者去世，我个人才提高警惕”。
"It was only when I learned that the patient had died that I was on my guard."
最初，都是同事之间互相提醒防护。
At first, it was between colleagues to remind each other to guard.
在第一时间意识到此病具有传染性后，从2020年1月1日开始，后湖院区急诊科主任艾芬要求自己科室的医护人员戴N95口罩。
From January 1, 2020, after he first became aware of the disease as contagious, the hospital director of Houhu District Emergency Department asked his staff to wear N95 masks.
在采访中，多位武汉市中心医院医生表示，羡慕湖北省卫健委管理的医院。
In the interview, many Wuhan city central hospital doctors said that envy Hubei Wei health committee managed the hospital.
一位呼吸科医生告诉《财经》记者，武汉同济医院在1月上旬便已要求做好防护。
Wuhan Tongji Hospital had asked for protection early in January, a respiratory doctor told Caijing.
武汉大学中南医院至少在1月初，已加强重点科室防护，疫情发展的风声很紧，院内已经预警，在可能遇到感染者的门诊、急诊和呼吸科都加强防控，让医生戴口罩。
At least in early January, the Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital has strengthened the protection of key departments, the spread of the epidemic is very close, the hospital has been warned, in the outpatient, emergency and respiratory departments at risk of infection to strengthen control, so that doctors wear masks.
《财经》记者获得的一份内部文件显示，1月9日，中南医院医院感染办公室曾向各科室下发文件，其中之一为“中南医院经空气传播疾病全体人员分级防护标准”，要求预检分诊点、发热门诊、隔离留观室、病区等，佩戴N95口罩。
An internal document obtained by Caijing News shows that on January 9, the Infection Office of Zhongnan Hospital issued documents to various departments. One of the documents was "the standard of protection for all personnel in Zhongnan Hospital for air-borne diseases."
普通门诊及普通病房需佩戴外科口罩。
Surgical masks should be worn in general outpatient and general wards.
眼科陷落武汉市中心医院门诊三楼，循扶梯而上，正对便是眼科。
Eye Fall Wuhan City Central Hospital outpatient clinic third floor, followed by escalator and up, is the eye.
楼层中央挖空，每层环形设计，绕一个半圈，便是眼科诊室。
The middle of the floor was hollowed out, each ring designed around a half circle, the eye room.
四位离世医生中，三位来自眼科：李文亮、梅仲明和朱和平。
Of the four deceased doctors, three were from ophthalmology: Li Wenliang, Mei Zhongming and Zhu Ping.
一位已经康复出院的眼科医护人员在微信群说：“出院了，我再死了，我们科可能出不来了”。
"I'm out of hospital, I'm dead again and we may not be able to get out," said a convalescent ophthalmologist at Weixin Qun.
“大多数时候，我们都不会戴口罩”，武汉市中心医院某科室医生说。
"Most of the time, we don't wear masks," said a doctor at Wuhan Central Hospital.
因适逢流感季，加之接连出现的不明原因肺炎病人，先警觉的是急诊内科和呼吸科的医生。
Due to the influenza season and the continuous occurrence of unexplained pneumonia patients, emergency medical and respiratory doctors are the first to be alert.
呼吸科医生无论看诊还是身处病区都戴着口罩，科室主任也会提醒，戴好口罩。
Respiratory doctors wear masks both at home and in the area, and department heads remind them to wear masks.
提高防护变成一种自觉行为，一位外科医生在得知急诊内科病人骤增后，与同科室医生自发购买N95口罩，每人花费千元以上。
Improved protection became self-conscious, with a surgeon spending more than $1,000 each to buy N95 masks spontaneously from doctors in the same department after learning of a sudden increase in emergency surgeries.
她形容，这完全来自职业本能。
This, she says, comes entirely from professional instincts.
“这样一个一千多万人口的城市，出现这样一个突发公共卫生事件，很多医生这辈子也没经历过。
"Many doctors have never experienced such a public health emergency in a city of more than 10 million people.
这带来很多的未知，我们不知道会发生什么，只能凭我们的专业素养和专科能力，去进行预判。
This brings a lot of unknown, we do not know what will happen, we can only rely on our professional quality and specialized ability, to make a prejudgement.
”一位武汉医生对《财经》记者说。
"A Wuhan doctor told Caijing.
从2019年12月30日到2020年1月20日得知“人传人”，20多天，除了急诊科、呼吸内科重点防护之外，医院其他科室的医护人员没有认识到危机已经来临。
From December 30, 2019 until January 20, 2020, "person-to-person", more than 20 days, in addition to emergency department, respiratory medicine key protection, other departments of the hospital medical staff did not realize that the crisis has come.
1月10日，眼科患者周惠兰转入隔离病房后，管床医生李文亮1月11日报告发热37.2℃，1月12日体温38.4℃，1月13日为38.5℃，呼吸道七项和支原体衣原体阴性，血象正常，双肺双肺磨玻璃斑片影。
January 10, eye patient Zhou Huilan transfer to the isolation ward, tube bed doctor Li Wenliang January 11 reported fever 37.2 degrees Celsius, January 12 temperature 38.4 degrees Celsius, January 13 38.5 degrees Celsius, respiratory tract seven and mycoplasma chlamydia negative, normal blood image, dual lung grinding glass patch.
1月12日上午，眼科医生丁怡报告发热37.4℃，晚上38.3℃，13日报告38.5℃，呼吸道七项和支原体衣原体阴性，白细胞正常，淋巴低，右肺下磨玻璃斑片影。
In the morning of January 12, ophthalmologist Ding Yi reported fever 37.4 ° C, 38.3 ° C at night, 38.5 ° C, 7 respiratory tract and mycoplasma chlamydia negative, normal leukocytes, low lymph nodes, right lower lung grinding glass patch.
《财经》记者获得一份名为“病毒性肺炎相关情况汇报（南京路）”的文件，显示1月13日中午12点，江岸区卫健局刘副局长率领局办公室、规划法制科、区卫生监督大队一行检查（武汉市中心医院）南京路院区发热门诊，门办、公卫、院感陪同检查，检查组现场查看了发热门诊运行情况，了解了每日接诊人数、目前隔离病房住院人数等信息，没有指出需要改进的问题。
At 12: 00 noon on January 13, deputy director of the Jianjiang District Health Bureau led the bureau's office, the planning and law division, the district health supervision brigade and other inspection (Wuhan City Central Hospital).
此时，南京路院内已经监测密接医务人员共计85名，其中，发热门诊9人、隔离病房29人、呼吸科34人、眼科13人。
At this time, the Nanjing Road Hospital has monitored a total of 85 medical personnel, including 9 fever clinics, 29 isolation rooms, 34 respiratory departments, 13 ophthalmology.
多名医生分析，在没有防护的情况下，眼科医生跟病人接触相对更近，容易感染。
Doctors analyzed that in the absence of protection, ophthalmologists are relatively close to the patient and susceptible to infection.
“不经过这次疫情，我对各种口罩没有这么清晰的认识。
"Without this outbreak, I don't have such a clear understanding of all kinds of masks.
”上述武汉市中心医院外科医生说。
"said the surgeon at Wuhan Central Hospital.
他指出，临床大夫不懂流行病学，未能从个例中总结出趋势；其他科室医生没有经过或者不注重传染病防控培训，整体医护基础教育、培养体系的薄弱从这次疫情中可见一斑。
He pointed out that clinicians do not understand epidemiology and are unable to draw trends from individual cases; doctors from other departments have not been trained or focused on infectious disease prevention and control, as can be seen from the weakness of the overall basic health-care education and training system.
期间，各科室主任、护士长也说要做好防护，但是医护人员大多是80后、90后，“压根没经历过任何类似的事情，当年非典，这些工作人员都还在上学，对于大的疫情，没有切身体会，更没有专业防护知识。
During the period, the division heads, head nurses also said to do a good job of protection, but most of the medical staff is after 80, 90, "nothing like this, the SARS, these staff are still attending school, for the major epidemic, there is no personal experience, much less professional protection knowledge.
”上述重症科医务人员说。
"said the intensive care unit.
2003年SARS疫情改变了医院的很多工作模式或制度 ,如建立发热门诊、让发热的初诊患者戴口罩、医护人员穿戴防护衣和护目镜等。
The SARS epidemic in 2003 changed many of the working patterns or systems in hospitals, such as the establishment of fever clinics, the wearing of masks by first-time patients with fever, and the wearing of protective clothing and goggles by medical personnel.
中国疾控中心回顾分析72314例新冠肺炎病例后发现，2020年1月10日前，有1.7%的病例发病；1月20日前发病的比例是13.8%。
A review of 72,314 cases of new crown pneumonia by the China CDC showed that 1.7% of cases had occurred by January 10, 2020, and 13.8% by January 20.
武汉“封城”后，医院人员的防护意识迅速提升，物资却不够了。
Wuhan "closed the city", hospital personnel's awareness of protection rapidly increased, but the material is not enough.
“当时物资真的是惨，隔离衣是一层纱似的， N95口罩没有，只能两层外科口罩。
"It was a real tragedy. The paraphernalia was a gauze, the N95 mask was not, only two surgical masks.
工业防护服，尺码太小，歪着脖子也得钻进去，穿上就不敢乱动，一动就破，身上全是输液瓶上的胶布贴、透明贴。
Industrial protective clothing, the size is too small, crooked neck must also drill in, put on dare not move, broken, all over the infusion bottle tape, transparent paste.
”上述重症科医务人员对《财经》记者说。
"These intensive care staff told Caijing.
“没办法，只能硬上，现在想想我们当时这些硬上的人，现在还没出事，真是死里逃生。
"There is no way, only hard, now that we think of those hard-up people, there is no accident, is really a close escape.
”边收治边改造现在想进入武汉市中心医院发热门诊不容易了。
"It's not easy to get into the Wuhan Central Hospital's fever clinic while receiving treatment.
自2月下旬，急诊一侧的空地，前后立起两个简易帐篷，一红一蓝，把守着进入发热门诊的必经通道。
Since late February, two makeshift tents, one red and one blue, have been erected on the emergency side of the vacant lot, guarding the necessary access to the hot clinic.
一个月前，发热门诊还可以随意进出。
A month ago, the fever clinic was accessible.
如果需要医护人员，你得大声示意，才有可能看到从人群中匆忙钻出来的他们。
If you need paramedics, you need to raise your voice so you can see them hurrying out of the crowd.
1月24日，武汉市中心医院被划为收治新冠肺炎的定点医院。
On January 24, Wuhan Central Hospital was designated as the designated hospital for the treatment of New Crown Pneumonia.
此时，发热病人被迫挤在急诊病房，躺在几乎相连的病床上。
At this point, the febrile patient was forced to huddle in the emergency ward, lying on an almost connected bed.
没有隔离设施，甚至连个遮挡的帘子也没有。
There was no isolation, not even a screen.
按计划中心医院封门改造三天，1月27日开始陆续收治病人。
The central hospital was closed for three days as planned and began receiving patients on 27 January.
1月28日，支援武汉市中心医院的首批医疗队抵达。
The first medical teams supporting Wuhan Central Hospital arrived on January 28.
当晚，支援队负责人与武汉市中心医院院领导商量如何合作，交流得知，中心医院有很多医护人员感染倒下，因医护人员有限，希望把一个病区整体交给支援队。
In the evening, the Chief of the Support Team discussed with the leadership of Wuhan Central Hospital how to co-operate. It transpired that many staff at the Central Hospital had fallen down. Due to the limited number of medical staff, they wished to turn over an entire ward to the support team.
第二天，一通急电让上述负责人措手不及。
The next day, an emergency call caught the person in charge by surprise.
原本计划两天后带着队员上“战场”的他，被迫改为当晚，“立即接管病区，这个时间超过我们的想象”。
Having planned to take his team to the battlefield two days later, he was forced to "take over the area immediately, more than we thought."
记忆与消毒水的气味和“战场”般的忙乱相联，“身边的人都是跑来跑去的”，上述支援队负责人描述，当时我们很茫然，不知道能把物资放在哪个房间，也不知道该找谁。
Memory was associated with the smell of disinfectant and the rush of the battlefield. "People were running around," said the head of the support team.
第二天，进入楼内的入口又变了。
The next day, the entrance to the building changed again.
1月28日到30日，连续三天，医护人员每日进入的门均不同，“第1次由侧面门诊的门进入，第3次换成了前门”。
For three days, from January 28 to January 30, paramedics entered different doors on a daily basis, "the first time through the side clinic door, the third time through the front door."
“病区感染管理，是特别专业的工作，大到病区防护隔离、消毒，走廊、门窗的管理，小到医护人员的设备、消毒等，只是让护士长或者科室主任提醒大家要戴口罩或者穿防护服什么的，远远不够。
"Infection management in the affected areas is a special professional job, ranging from the isolation and disinfection of sick areas to the management of corridors, doors and windows, to the equipment and disinfection of medical personnel. It is not enough for the head nurse or section chief to remind people to wear masks or protective clothing.
”上述重症科医务人员说。
"said the intensive care unit.
至少有两位医生指出，武汉市中心医院早期急诊外科和呼吸科存在交叉感染。
At least two doctors said there was a cross-infection in early emergency surgery and respiratory department at Wuhan Central Hospital.
呼吸道疾病的患者常年和急诊外科的患者混居在一个病区，呼吸道疾病多半都会传染，需要有专门、严格的院感措施，但急诊外科的患者比较简单。
Patients with respiratory diseases live in the same area as patients in emergency surgery for years, most respiratory diseases are contagious and require specialized, rigorous hospital care, but emergency surgery patients are relatively simple.
“院感控要求不一样，如今混居一个病区，就导致很多急诊外科的患者被呼吸道疾病传染了。
"It's not the same thing. Living in the same area now causes many emergency surgeries to contract respiratory infections.
往往是骨折的住进来，住了几天肺部感染了”。
Often is the residence of fracture come in, live a few days lung infection ".
上述陈姓医护人员说，某年冬天，中心医院书记蔡莉巡视到急诊外科，看到空了好多床位，认为呼吸科病人收不进去，把急诊外科的床位剥离10张，用于收治楼上呼吸科的病人，结果到夏天，呼吸内科的患者少了，有空床位，急诊科夏季车祸伤患者多，但收不进去。
One winter, the secretary of the Central Hospital, Cai Li, toured the emergency surgery department and saw that many beds were empty. Ten emergency surgery beds were removed for patients in the respiratory department upstairs. As a result, fewer patients were admitted to the respiratory department in summer.
“看着自己科病房的床位空着，就是收治不了车祸伤的患者，因为那是属于呼吸科的。
"Looking at the empty beds in my ward is no way to treat people who have been injured in a car accident, because it belongs to the respiratory department.
这样也埋下了急诊和呼吸科矛盾冲突的种子”。
It also sows the seeds of a conflict between emergency and respiratory departments.
直到2月7日，武汉市中心医院的改造仍在继续。
Until February 7, the renovation of Wuhan Central Hospital continued.
电锯声从二楼传来，呼吸与重症病区外，两名施工工作人员套在白色防护服内，一人切割隔离板，另一人站在梯子上，“咚咚咚”把隔离板固定成一道门，将发热病区与食堂侧门相隔。
The sound of electric saws came from the second floor, outside the breathing and serious area, where two construction workers were wearing white protective clothing, one cutting the partition board and the other standing on a ladder, "thumping" the partition into a door that separated the febrile area from the side door of the dining hall.
上述重症科医务人员所在科室接管的病区接连转换。
The above-mentioned intensive care unit of the medical staff to take over the disease area successively.
2月中旬，因所在病区感控不达标，要求重新改造。
In mid-February, due to the sensibility of the disease area not up to standard, requiring re-transformation.
他们跟着病人一起转移到其他楼层，改造好后，才得以重新回来。
They moved with the patient to another floor, and when they were reconstructed, they were able to return.
已经改造好的病区，有三区两通道，绿区，是清洁区，医护人员在此穿防护服，有警示语、指导内容；红区，为污染区，所有东西都不能带到绿区，医护人员在此脱防护服，有院感的工作人员，最少是护士长级别的，墙上也贴有各种标识，指导每一步该怎么做。
There are three zones and two lanes, the Green Zone, which is a clean area where medical staff wear protective clothing with warning signs and instructions. For polluted areas, nothing can be brought to the Green Zone, where medical staff take off protective clothing, staff with a sense of ownership, at least at the head nurse's level, and signs are affixed to the walls to guide them in every step.
有的医护人员专门买个手机放红区，以免将污染带出区；红区和绿区之间是黄区，即缓冲或过渡区，有医护通道，如送饭从干净通道进去，吃完饭，垃圾从污染区送出去。
Some doctors and nurses buy a mobile phone to let out the red zone, so as not to bring the pollution out of the area. Between the red zone and the green area is the yellow zone, or buffer or transition zone, with access to medical care, such as food delivery from a clean passage, food, and garbage delivery from contaminated areas.
从红区到绿区洗八遍手。
Wash hands eight times from red to green.
同时脱换衣服的只能有两个人。
Only two people can change their clothes at the same time.
这一系列规则都是为了将感染的几率降到最低。
This set of rules is designed to minimize the risk of infection.
一位急诊科医生说，直到改造后的隔离病房逐渐开放，这些做法才慢慢规范起来。
It wasn't until the renovated isolation ward was opened that these practices slowly became standard, an emergency doctor said.
缺位的院感防控艾芬、彭欢等医生在发现异常情况后，第一时间报知了医院的公共卫生科或院感科。
The absence of hospital sense control Aifen, PengHuan and other doctors in the discovery of abnormal conditions, the first time reported to the public health department or hospital sensuality.
然而，“院感部门没什么存在感”，采访中，武汉市中心医院5名医生表达出相同看法。
However, "no sense of existence of the hospital departments," the interview, Wuhan City Central Hospital 5 doctors expressed the same view.
《新型冠状病毒疫情处置情况说明》中可见：在2019年12月29日下午2点半左右，在接到彭欢报告四例与华南海鲜市场相关不明肺炎患者后，公共卫生科殷维“立刻将此事件报告了公卫科科长何小满，同时告知院感办做好消毒隔离”“同时致电院感办李能，告知该情况，请他汇报院感科长，指导院感相关工作”。
On December 29, 2019, at about 2: 30 pm, after receiving a report from Peng Huan on four cases of unidentified pneumonia related to the South China seafood market, the Public Health Bureau reported the incident to the Head of Public Health Section Ho Siu Man and told the hospital to take good precautions against disinfection.
一份内部材料显示，2019年12月29日，公卫科告知院感办做好消毒隔离。
An internal document showed that on December 29, 2019, the Sanitary Office informed the hospital to do a good job of sterilization isolation.
相关的通知和要求发布在院感微信群内，再由各科室的院感人员传达给所在科室的医护人员。
The relevant notices and requests are published in the hospital message group, and then communicated by the staff of each section to the medical staff in their section.
根据2019年版的《医院感染管理办法》，住院床位总数在100张以上的医院应当设立医院感染管理委员会和独立的医院感染管理部门，人员由医院感染管理部门、医务部门、护理部门等十几个部门的主要负责人组成，主任委员由医院院长或者主管医疗工作的副院长担任。
According to the 2019 edition of the Measures for the Management of Hospital Infections, hospitals with a total of 100 beds or more should set up hospital infection management committees and independent hospital infection management departments, composed of the principal heads of more than a dozen departments, including the hospital infection management department, medical service department and nursing department.
医院感染管理委员会的职责有，研究并确定本医院的医院感染管理工作计划，并对计划的实施进行考核和评价；研究并确定本医院的医院感染重点部门、重点环节、重点流程、危险因素以及采取的干预措施，明确各有关部门、人员在预防和控制医院感染工作中的责任；制定本医院发生医院感染暴发及出现不明原因传染性疾病或者特殊病原体感染病例等事件时的控制预案等。
The duties of the Hospital Infection Management Committee include studying and determining the hospital infection management plan of the hospital and evaluating and evaluating the implementation of the plan; studying and determining the key departments, key links, key processes, risk factors and intervention measures taken by the hospital; and formulating plans for controlling hospital infection outbreaks and cases of unexplained infectious diseases or special pathogens.
但在此次疫情中，有几千张床位的武汉市中心医院几乎没人提及这一委员会。
But few of the thousands of beds in Wuhan's central hospital mentioned the commission during the outbreak.
《财经》记者在采访中发现，医务人员对培训的认知也各有不同。
The Caijing reporter found in the interview, the medical staff also has the different cognition to the training.
一位外科医生勉强回忆起类似培训，1月中旬的视频会议上，有院感部门负责人培训防护知识，“但都很基本”。
One surgeon reluctantly recalled similar training, and at a videoconference in mid-January, the head of the hospital department trained in protection, "but all very basic."
另一位呼吸科的医生对此毫无印象，“我不记得有过类似培训”。
"I don't remember training like that," said another respirator.
大多数情况下，院感部门像是隐身，可有可无。
In most cases, the department is invisible and optional.
一位急诊科医生说，院感就那么几个人，“我们自己保护自己”。
"We protect ourselves," says an emergency doctor.
“在感控科的同业会议上，经常听到医院领导不重视、资金投入不够这类反馈。
"At the peer group meetings of the Sensor Control Section, we often hear such feedback from hospital leaders that they don't pay enough attention and money.
”上海交通大学医学院附属瑞金医院感染科主任倪语星坦言，这一情况在改变，但还远远不够。
Ni Yuxing, director of infection at the Ruijin Hospital, a subsidiary of Shanghai Jiaotong University School of Medicine, admits the situation is changing, but not nearly enough.
中欧国际工商学院卫生管理与政策中心主任蔡江南接受《财经》记者采访时表示，医院在消毒问题上始终不够重视，原因之一就是压缩成本。
Cai Jiangnan, director of the Center for Health Management and Policy at CEIBS, told Caijing that hospitals have not paid enough attention to disinfection because, among other things, they are cutting costs.
医院感控的投入体现在各个科室的方方面面，这不仅是某一科室空间规划的改良、提高人员配比等就能解决的问题，如何配比有限的人、财、物，对医院管理者也提出更高的要求。
The input of hospital sensibility control is reflected in every section, which is not only a problem that can be solved by improving the spatial planning of a certain department, improving the ratio of personnel, how to match the limited number of people, money and things, and putting forward higher demands on hospital administrators.
“每一起重大飞行安全事故背后有29个事故征兆，每个征兆背后有300个事故苗头，每个苗头背后有1000个事故隐患。
"There are 29 warning signs behind every major flight safety incident, behind each sign are 300 accidents and behind each sign there are 1,000 potential accidents," he said.
”航空业关于飞行安全的“海恩法则”，同样适用于传染病防控，应该检视每一个细节。
The industry's "Heine's Law" on flight safety, which applies equally to infectious disease control, should be examined in every detail.
作为新冠肺炎定点收治医院，武汉市中心医院后湖院区一刻未停，南京院区也陆续恢复门诊和病区，“目前已开设24个病区，本周六（3月14日）将开放门诊”，上述副院长说。
"As a designated hospital for new crown pneumonia, Wuhan central hospital back-lake hospital district has not stopped, Nanjing courtyard area has also been reinstated," has opened 24 sick areas, this Saturday (March 14) will be open out-patient clinics, "said the vice-dean.
自此，两个院区要同时运转，人员可能又要不够，“有时候大家问什么时候是个头，真的是累了。
Since then, the two campuses have been running at the same time, and the staff may be inadequate. "Sometimes people ask when they're going to be big and really tired.
”上述重症科医务人员说。
"said the intensive care unit.
（《财经》记者辛颖、赵天宇，实习记者朱贺对此文亦有贡献）【版权声明】本作品著作权归《财经》独家所有，授权深圳市腾讯计算机系统有限公司独家享有信息网络传播权，任何第三方未经授权，不得转载。
(Caijing reporter Xinying, Zhao Tianyu, intern reporter Zhu He also contributed to this article) Copyright under exclusive ownership of Caijing, authorized Shenzhen Tencent Computer Systems Co., Ltd. to enjoy exclusive rights of information network transmission, and no third party may reproduce it without authorization.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
李文亮生前所在医院之痛。
Li Wenliang was in hospital pain.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "李文亮生前所在医院之痛";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Ri Wenliang's hospital at Ren & quot;;
var msg_desc = "武汉市中心医院在此次新冠肺炎疫情中最先陷落，医护人员伤亡最重。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Wuhan Central Hospital was the first to fall with the new crown pneumonia epidemic, with the heaviest casualties.
航空业关于飞行安全的“海恩法则”，同样适用于传染病防控，应该检视每一个细节";。
The airline industry's "Hein Code" for flight safety, which also applies to infectious-disease control, should be reviewed for every detail and quot;;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
