走出方舱后，夹缝中过渡的普通人 | 武汉现场。
Running out of the cabin, ordinary people in transition at the scene with Wuhan.
刘以秦。
Liu Yiqin.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
重新回到外面的世界后，有人和民警拉锯，有人被邻居说“有毒”，有人怀念舱内时光，有人开始新的生活文|《财经》记者 刘以秦 编辑|谢丽容3月4日下午，住在武汉市硚口区的居民李才（化名）接到通知，可以从方舱出院了。
Back in the outside world, someone saw with the police, someone called "toxic" by neighbors, someone nostalgic for the cabin, and someone nostalgic for the time inside. Cheryl Rong, a resident of Zhengkou District of Wuhan City, was notified on the afternoon of March 4 that he could be discharged from the capsule.
他此前入住武汉江夏区方舱医院，受到属地管理原则的限制，出舱后他需要回到硚口区进行康复隔离。
He had been admitted to Wuhan Jiangxia District Fangchao Hospital, restricted by the principle of territorial management, after the cabin he needs to return to the Zhangkou District for rehabilitation isolation.
下午3点，三辆转运公交车载着他和其他几十位出舱的病人，到达硚口区新华印刷厂门口，工作人员提前将印刷厂的厂房进行了简单的改造，铺上了床单被子和电热毯。
At 3 p. m., three transshipment buses carrying him and dozens of other patients arrived at the gate of the Xinhua printing plant in Zhangkou district.
厂房很旧，墙面斑驳，改造后的厂房更像是一座小方舱，床位一个连一个，公用的移动厕所在外面，要走上一段路。
The factory building is old, with mottled walls, and the renovated factory building is more like a small square cabin, with beds available one at a time.
李才不愿意住在这里，“所有人都挤在一起，还没有独立卫生间，如果再交叉感染了怎么办？还不如住在方舱里。
Lee doesn't want to live here. "Everyone is huddled together and there's no separate toilet. What if there's another cross-infection? Better live in the cockpit."
”他对《财经》记者表达了担忧。
He expressed concern about Caijing.
一些人选择接受，下了车；还有一些人拒绝下车，要求换到条件更好的隔离点去。
Some chose to accept it and got off the bus; others refused to get off and demanded to be moved to a better segregation.
现场发生了争执。
An argument broke out at the scene.
拉锯战持续到晚上，硚口区的警察赶到现场维护秩序，劝说他们理解，并尽快入住。
The tug-of-war continued into the evening, when police from the Zhangkou District arrived to maintain order, persuade them to understand and move in as soon as possible.
夜晚，气温降了下来，双方仍然僵持着，一些出舱患者准备直接在车上睡，因为“进去了就再也出不来了。
At night, when the temperature dropped, the two sides remained deadlocked, and some of the passengers were ready to sleep directly on the bus because they could no longer get out when they entered.
”但是车上实在是冷的厉害，他们跑到到了医护人员办公室坐着，坚持不愿入住。
But the car was so cold that they ran to the paramedics office and sat there, insisting they didn't want to.
警察很无奈，现场的一名警察告诉《财经》记者，硚口区能征用的酒店都已经征用了，主要用于给外地救援队住宿，还有一些是用来隔离疑似人员和密切接触人员，“现在都住满了，总不能把人家从酒店赶出来，这已经是我们能做到最好的条件了。
Police are helpless, a police officer told Caijing, Zhangkou District can requisition hotels, mainly for field rescue team accommodation, and some are used to isolate suspected personnel and close contacts, "now full, can not drive people out of the hotel, this is the best we can do.
”厂房外堆放着电热毯的包装盒，警察说，这是志愿者连夜铺上的，在病人转运之前就提前打开，怕他们冻着。
Outside the plant, boxes of electric blankets were stacked, which police said were made overnight by volunteers who opened them in advance of the patients' transfer for fear they might freeze.
“现在这么难，大家为什么不能相互理解一点呢？”2月3日，武汉宣布开建方舱医院，过去一个多月里，无数人关注着方舱里的生活，2月23日，武汉封城一个月，14家方舱医院开放病床12165张，在院病人8689人，武汉每4名确诊患者，就有一名曾经在方舱接受治疗。
On Feb. 23, Wuhan closed the city with 12,165 hospital beds, 8,689 patients in the hospital, and one in every four patients diagnosed in Wuhan had received treatment in the square cabin.
方舱发生了很多故事。
A lot of stories happened in the cabin.
抖音里在病床上读书的付先生火到了海外，上演了真实版“阅读是一座可以随时携带的避难所”；新疆医疗队的医护人员巴哈古丽带着病人跳新疆舞，给了情绪低落的病人们一剂“强心针”，也化解了外界的担忧；武昌方舱里，一位高三的女生在备考，医生给她划出一间临时自习室；方舱里的病人争相晒出伙食照片，有荤有素，水果酸奶，甚至还出现过鲍鱼、甲鱼。
"Reading is a ready-to-carry shelter." Bahaguoli, a medical worker from Xinjiang Medical Group, performed Xinjiang dancing with her patients, giving her a temporary study room while a senior student in Wuchang's cabin lined up a makeshift study room for her.
3月10日，随着洪山体育馆和江夏大花山方舱休舱，武汉市20多座方舱全部休舱，他们中的大部分人被认为痊愈出院，小部分转移到有床位的医院继续治疗。
On March 10, with the suspension of the Hongshan Stadium and the Daxia Dafa Mountain cabin, more than 20 cabins in Wuhan City were closed. Most of them were deemed to have recovered and discharged, and a small number of them were transferred to hospital with beds for further treatment.
出舱的病人们还需要集中隔离观察14天，如身体状况稳定，就可以回家隔离14天，如没有异常情况，就可以回归到正常生活。
Patients who leave the cabin also need to be kept in isolation for 14 days. If they are in stable condition, they can go home for 14 days and return to normal life if there are no abnormalities.
方舱闭舱，对社会和绝大部分人来说，意味着抗击疫情有了里程碑式的进展，但是对于一些人来说，走出方舱后，又是一场新的战斗。
The cabin shutdown meant a milestone for society and most people, but for some, coming out of the cabin was another battle.
出舱后的一场拉锯战病人们对隔离条件的一些基础要求，无可厚非；民警们的做法更谈不上有问题3月5日凌晨1点，一名硚口区警察从被窝里爬起来，匆匆赶到印刷厂门口，现场已经有十几位警察。
There is nothing wrong with the basic requirements of the isolation conditions of a zigzag menacing patient; not to mention the fact that at 1 a.m. on 5 March, a police officer of a Zou district got up from his bedclothes and hurried to the door of the printing plant, where a dozen policemen were already on the scene.
一名志愿者担心出舱患者的情况，帮忙联系了防疫指挥部，对方说，区长已经赶过去处理了。
One volunteer, worried about the condition of the cabin crew, helped contact the quarantine department, which said the district chief had rushed to deal with it.
现场一位警察告诉《财经》记者，当时，区长在，公安的领导也在。
A police officer at the scene told Caijing that the district chief was there, as was the police chief.
现场民警拒绝《财经》记者进去采访，隔离区外的另一间旧厂房里，一些工作人员盯着监控屏幕，观察里面的动静。
On-site police refused to "Caijing" reporter access to the area of separation in another old factory, some staff members stare at the monitoring screen, watching the inside movement.
穿着防护服的几名警察反复多次进去沟通，里面一度传出争吵声。
Several police officers in protective clothing repeatedly went in to communicate, and there was a squabble inside.
一名警察被出舱患者指着鼻子指责，他觉得委屈，“政府已经尽最大的努力了，病人一天的伙食费130多元钱，我们每天没日没夜的值班，连肉都很少吃到。
"The government has done its best," said one police officer, pointing a finger at his nose. "The government has done its best. The patient spends more than 130 yuan a day on food.
”一些病人提出要住单间，酒店已经没有空房，连只有20间房的小酒店都已经被征用了。
Some patients have offered to stay in single rooms, and the hotel is empty, with even a 20-room hotel expropriated.
李才发现，现场还有用集装箱改造的小房间，里面有一张床，但“味道很重，住进去怕中毒。
Li found that there was also a small room with a container, with a bed inside, but "it tastes very heavy and lives in fear of poisoning.
”除了酒店，还能满足一人住一间条件的，就是高校和职工宿舍，但硚口区资源有限，没有太多高校。
Apart from hotels, universities and staff hostels are the only places a person can live in, but there are few universities in the city with limited resources.
《财经》记者询问，为什么不能将病人安置到其他隔离资源丰富的区域？警察回答，现在严格遵循属地管理，他们也询问过类似的问题，但其他区并不会透露他们是否还有空位，信息没有打通，也不会接收其他区的病人。
The Caijing reporter asked why patients could not be relocated to other isolated resource-rich areas? The police replied that territorial management was strictly followed and they had asked similar questions, but other districts would not reveal whether they had vacancies, had no access to information and would not accept patients from other districts.
在武汉市，武昌区和青山区的酒店资源相对丰富，洪山区和江夏区的学校资源相对较多。
In Wuhan, Wuchang District and Qingshan District, the hotel resources are relatively rich, Hongshan and Jiangxia school resources are relatively more.
多位江夏区的出舱患者告诉《财经》记者，他们住在学校宿舍改造的隔离点。
Many Jiangxia residents told Caijing that they live in an isolated area of the school dormitory renovation.
一位武昌区政府工作人员透露，目前武昌区还有酒店在正常营业，如果需要隔离的出院病人多，会考虑继续征用。
A Wuchang district government official said there are still hotels open in Wuchang District. If more patients need to be quarantined, they will be considered for further requisition.
3月5日上午，硚口新华印刷厂内的拉锯战终于结束，一部分要求必须住单间病人被转运到其他隔离点，住进了集装箱单间， 李才留在印刷厂，因为有一部分病人被运走，他一个人住进了原本安排10几个人区域，“也算是单独住了。
On the morning of March 5, the tug-of-war at the Zhangkou Xinhua Printing Plant finally ended. Some of the patients had to be moved to other isolation points and live in single containers. Li stayed at the printing plant because part of the patients were taken away.
”病人们对隔离条件的一些基础要求，看起来无可厚非。
The patients' basic requirements for isolation seem justified.
民警们的做法更谈不上有问题，特殊时期，这样的拉锯战时有发生。
Police practices are not to say problematic, special times, such a tug-of-war from time to time.
多一些相互理解，此时显得尤其奢侈。
More mutual understanding, this time appears particularly luxurious.
一些民警凌晨4点交班，早上8点要继续新一天的值班，刚刚过去的拉锯战似乎对他们没有太多影响：“这是我们的正常工作，习惯了。
Some police hand over at 4 a.m. and continue on duty at 8 a.m., and the tug-of-war seems to have little impact on them: "It's our normal job and we're used to it.
”李才住的隔离区，之后也没有新的病人运送过来。
Li lived in the quarantine area and no new patients were brought in.
他说，隔离点的伙食比方舱要差一点，但是也挺好的，有医生会定时过来询问情况，量体温，目前一切状况都好，“只想快点回家，陪伴家人。
He said the food in the quarantine was a little worse than the cabin, but it was good. The doctor would come regularly to inquire about the situation, take temperature, and everything was fine.
”没人想回医院没人想再走一遍流程，好比打怪升级，明明胜利在望，却又回到起点3月10日，王迪收到通知可以离开康复隔离点回家了。
No one wants to go back to the hospital No one wants to go back to the hospital and nobody wants to go through the process again.
王迪的爷爷奶奶之前被确诊，随后妈妈也确诊了送进了方舱。
Wang Di's grandparents had been diagnosed before, and his mother was later confirmed in the capsule.
虽然没有任何症状，他觉得自己应该也中招了，但社区工作人员分身乏力，他自己找了多个医院，申请做核酸检测，查出阳性，CT显示肺部无感染。
Despite the absence of any symptoms, he felt that he should have admitted, but the community workers were too weak, he went to several hospitals himself, applied for nucleic acid tests, found positive, CT showed no lung infection.
2月9日，他被送进方舱医院，因为没有症状，王迪很快又接受了2次核酸检测，均显示阴性，2月25日，他接到通知可以出舱了。
On 9 February, he was taken to the Fangcao Hospital, where, as he was asymptomatic, Wang Di received two more tests of nucleic acids, both negative, and on February 25 he was notified that he was ready to leave.
他被送入武汉市长江职业学院的宿舍，这里被改造成康复点，一人一间，有独立卫生间。
He was sent to the dormitory of Wuhan Changjiang Vocational College, which was converted into a rehabilitation center with separate toilets.
2月26日早上，他洗了个澡，站在阳台上，摘下口罩深呼吸，他说，那一刻，他觉得很幸福，没有阻隔的呼吸很奢侈。
On the morning of February 26, he took a bath, stood on the balcony, took off his mask and took a deep breath.
王迪一直怀疑自己是否真的感染了新冠肺炎，除了第一次核酸阳性，之后的4次核酸检测均为阴性。
Wangdi had always wondered if he was really infected with pneumonia, and had tested negative for all but the first nucleic acid test.
在隔离点，他数着日子期待回家。
At the quarantine point, he counted his days waiting to go home.
有一天，他在微信群里看到通知，与他住在同一楼层的另外一位爷爷，查出复阳。
One day, he saw a notice in the microphone group, and another grandpa, who lived on the same floor with him, found out Fuyang.
为了保护病人的隐私，没人知道是哪间房的病人，他看到有救护车和社区工作人员赶来，但是那位复阳病人拒绝回到医院，“他不想再走一遍流程了，好比打怪升级，明明胜利在望，又回到了起点。
To protect the patient's privacy, no one knows which room the patient is in. He sees ambulances and community workers coming, but the Fuyang patient refuses to return to the hospital.
”3月8日，青山区居民付惠华在隔离点酒店告诉来检查的医生，她腹部疼痛难忍，已经好几天了。
Fu Huihua, a resident of the Qingshan area, told the doctor at the quarantine site on March 8 that she had been suffering from abdominal pain for days.
付惠华2月12日核酸检测阳性，进入方舱医院，2月28日出舱进入酒店隔离。
Fu Huihua February 12 nucleic acid positive, entered the cabin hospital, February 28 cabin into the hotel isolation.
3月4日时，她感觉到不舒服，腹部疼痛，浑身乏力，吃不下饭。
On 4 March, she was feeling sick, had abdominal pain, was tired and could not eat.
她不敢告诉医生和家人，她再也不想去医院了。
She was afraid to tell the doctor and her family that she no longer wanted to go to the hospital.
直到3月8日，实在难以忍受，告诉了医生。
It was too much for him to bear until March 8th, and he told the doctor.
隔离点安排车辆将她送往医院检查，先去了青山区普仁医院，查出肺部感染，胆有炎症，医生判断肺炎还未恢复，但普仁医院不是定点医院，不接收。
The isolation point arranged for her to be taken to the hospital for examination, first to Puren Hospital in the Qingshan area, where a lung infection was detected, there was an inflammation of the bile and the doctor judged that pneumonia had not yet recovered, but Puren Hospital was not a designated hospital and was not admitted.
隔离点上报防疫指挥部后，又送去了武汉市第九医院，九医院的医生说，因为付慧华核酸阴性，不符合住院标准，定点医院只能接收核酸阳性的病人。
The quarantine point was reported to the anti-epidemic command and sent to Wuhan Ninth Hospital, where doctors said only nucleic acid-positive patients could be admitted to designated hospitals because Fu Huihua was negative and did not meet hospital standards.
直到3月11日晚上8点，付慧华住进了武钢医院，3月12日下午3点，付慧华告诉《财经》记者，她正在准备做进一步的检查。
Fu Huihua stayed at Wuhan Iron and Steel Hospital until 8pm on March 11, and Fu Huihua told Caijing that she was preparing for further examinations.
《财经》记者了解到，在不同的康复隔离点，医护值班的情况各不相同。
Caijing reporter learned that in different rehabilitation isolation points, the situation of medical care on duty varies.
一些病人反映，每天都医生上门检查，还有一些病人说，听说有医生，但是住进来好几天也没看见，只有送饭的工作人员会顺便记录体温。
Some patients said they heard of a doctor but did not see one for several days, and only the staff who delivered the food took their temperature.
一位在江夏长江工程大学隔离的出舱病人希望可以做抗体检查，周围已经出现了出院又复阳的案例，查了抗体他才觉得放心。
Jiangxia Changjiang Project University in the isolation of a patient hope to do an antibody examination, the surrounding has been discharged from the case of Fuyang, he found antibodies to feel relieved.
他致电市长热线，收到的回复是：关于隔离点抽血查抗体这项工作，武汉市没有给出相关规定，所以目前暂时不能安排。
He called the mayor's hotline and received a reply: regarding the isolation point blood test antibody this work, Wuhan City did not give the relevant regulations, so at present can not arrange.
怀念里面的“家人”他自己走进小区大门，遇上了一些出来拿快递、买菜的邻居，有人在说，“这种人怎么还放回来。
I miss the "family" inside he walked into the gate of the neighborhood, met some of the neighbors out to pick up express delivery, some people said, "How come this kind of people still put back.
”王迪很年轻，整个过程中没有任何症状，在方舱里的日子里，他积极组织方舱里的小伙伴互帮互助，包括帮助护士搬运餐食，照顾患有阿尔兹海默症的老爷爷。
Wangdi was young and had no symptoms all the way, and during the days in the cabin he actively organized the cabin crew to help each other, including helping the nurse carry the meal and take care of his grandfather, who was suffering from Alzheimer's.
有一天，方舱里给大家检查身体的护士因为低血糖突然晕倒了，其他护士抬不动，几个男性患者立刻冲上去帮忙将晕倒的护士抬到户外通风处，又立刻站得远远的，让护士们帮忙救助。
One day, the nurses in the cabin suddenly fainted from hypoglycemia and the other nurses couldn't carry them. Several male patients rushed up to help carry the fainting nurse out into the open air and immediately stood away to ask the nurses for help.
与王迪在同一个方舱住院的张姐，当时主要负责照顾那位阿尔茨海默症爷爷，爷爷已经70多岁了，按照方舱的要求，只能收治18至65岁的轻症患者，如果有家人一同进入方舱隔离，可以将年龄限制放宽，但这位爷爷是一个人来的。
Zhang, who was hospitalized in the same cabin with Wang Di, was mainly responsible for the grandfather of Alzheimer's disease, who was in his 70s. He was able to treat light patients aged between 18 and 65 only as required by the cabin.
他们试图联系了爷爷的家人，他大儿子是重症，在雷神山医院治疗，小儿子虽然说很担心父亲，但拒绝和父亲视频通话，爷爷的老伴也确诊了，在另一座方舱。
They tried to contact Grandpa's family. His eldest son was in serious condition and was treated at Raytheon Mountain Hospital. Although the younger son said he was worried about his father, he refused to talk to his father on video.
王迪记得，爷爷当时经常自己坐着哭，说这里都是坏人，不让他出去，有一天爷爷自己偷偷跑了出去，试图扯破外面的铁丝网逃出去。
Wang Di remembered that Grandpa used to sit and cry, saying that it was all bad guys, so he wouldn't let him out. One day, Grandpa ran out on his own and tried to break the barbed wire.
张姐和另外几位大姐轮流照顾爷爷，帮他打水洗脸洗脚，喂饭，带着爷爷遛弯散步，因为有试图出逃的经历，工作人员不允许爷爷走到户外。
Zhang and several other older sisters took turns taking care of Grandpa, helping him fetch water, wash his face and feet, feed his food and take Grandpa for a walk in the corner.
王迪与工作人员沟通，说他带着爷爷在外面走走，保证不会出问题。
Wangdi talked to the staff and said he was taking Grandpa out for a walk to make sure nothing went wrong.
2月25日，王迪出舱，从病床一路走到门口，所有人都给他打招呼，送祝福，已经出门了他还听到有人喊：“恭喜出院，我们马上就来了！”坐上转运车，他很开心，但转而开始怀念，“方舱里都像家人。
On February 25, Wang Di got out of the cabin and walked all the way from the hospital bed to the door. Everyone greeted him and gave him good wishes. He heard people shouting "Congratulations on discharge, we are coming soon!"
”王迪说，无论是方舱还是康复隔离点都有心理医生常驻，为病人纾解心理，但一些病人认为并没有什么用，“他们又没感染过，怎么能理解病人的心理呢？”3月10日，王迪接到通知，由于两次核酸连续阴性，他可以解除隔离回家了，转运车将他放在社区门口，他自己走进去，门口还有一些出来拿快递、买菜的居民，他听到有人说，“这种人怎么还放回来。
The psychiatrist stationed at both the cabin and the rehabilitation quarantine site was there to relieve the patient, but some patients thought it was no good, "Wangdi said on March 10, after two consecutive negative nucleic acids, how could he understand the patient's psychology?
”虽然社区工作人员不会透露具体哪户人家感染，但被接走，房屋消毒以及很长时间家里没人住，再带着行李回家，邻居难免会察觉到。
"Community workers will not say who is being infected, but neighbors will be aware of being picked up, disinfected and left uninhabited for long periods of time to bring their bags home.
有一名解除隔离的病人回家，他所在的社区团购群里，邻居说，不要把他团购的菜放在一起，怕有毒。
When a desegregated patient returned home from his community shopping group, neighbors said they would not put his group of dishes together for fear of poisoning.
新“方舱”将要运转这里将用于收治隔离监狱里的患者和疑似病例，收尾战打响了3月11日，武汉市江夏区一处工地上还在施工，现场摆放了300多个集装箱，工人们正在紧急赶工，当晚8点需要交付使用，这里原来是一个净水厂，距离武汉市中心约30公里。
The new "square cabin" will be used to treat patients and suspected cases in isolated jails. Construction began on March 11 at a construction site in the Jiangxia area of Wuhan City, where more than 300 containers were on site. Workers were rushing to work and needed to be delivered by 8 p. m., a water purification plant about 30 kilometers from the center of Wuhan.
《财经》记者在现场看到，中心隔离区域被高高的铁丝网围住，四个角落都有移动厕所和公共洗手池，每个集装箱里摆放了一张床。
Caijing reporter saw at the scene, the central isolation area is surrounded by high barbed wire, four corners have mobile toilets and public wash basins, each container has a bed.
现场工人张齐辉此前也参与建设了其他方舱，他的伙伴胡先生此前在雷神山参与建设，他们告诉《财经》记者，这里是用于收治隔离监狱里的患者和疑似病例。
Zhang Qi-hui, an onsite worker who had been involved in the construction of the other cabins, told Caijing that it was used to treat patients and suspected cases in isolated prisons.
张齐辉还提到，这不是现在在建的最大的方舱，蔡甸区还有一个更大的。
Zhang also mentioned that this is not the largest square cabin currently under construction, there is a larger one in Cai Den.
听说监狱里有隔离需求的人很多，300多个集装箱远远不够。
It is said that there is a large demand for segregation in prisons and that more than 300 containers are not enough.
下午6点，张齐辉离开工地，后勤保障的工人继续收尾工作，还需要铺好被子，摆放生活用品。
At 6: 00 pm, Zhang left the site, logistics workers continue to close the work, but also need to make a quilt, put supplies.
参与建设隔离点，工人们会有100元时薪，当天工作结束就会发放。
Workers will be paid 100 yuan an hour for participating in the construction of the quarantine site, which will be released when the work is over.
现场会发放盒饭，有荤有素，口罩也每天发新的，还有一天三次的体温检查和消毒，有工人觉得，出来干活感觉比在家待着安全，待遇也好。
Boxed rice is distributed live, meat masks are kept up to date, and there are three days of temperature check-ups and disinfection. Some workers feel safer and better treated when they go out to work than they do at home.
3月11日下午，武汉市汉阳监狱门口，陆陆续续还有货车拖运集装箱进入，门口的工作人员告诉《财经》记者，这是用于隔离监狱里的患者，目前还没有开放使用。
On the afternoon of March 11, at the entrance to Wuhan Hanyang Prison, a number of lorry-laden containers continued to enter. Staff at the gate told Caijing that it was used to isolate patients in prisons and was not yet open for use.
类似这样的“方舱”还在陆陆续续建设、交付，但目前并未有公开信息统计，他们大多分布在郊区，或是旧厂房改造。
Similar "square cabin" is still gradually being built, delivered, but there is no open information statistics, they are mostly distributed in the suburbs, or old plant renovation.
张齐辉之前参与建设的另一座方舱在东西湖区的一个产业园内，四环外，距离武汉市中心约30公里，那里有1000张床位。
Zhang Qi-hui was previously involved in the construction of another square cabin in the East and West Lake, four rings outside the city center of Wuhan, about 30 kilometers, where there are 1000 beds.
3月12日，武汉阴天，已经出舱11天的汤非核酸结果阴性，他算着还有3天就可以回家了；王迪收到了社区工作人员送来的安心菜；张齐辉回到住处，等待接下来的新的方舱开工通知，每次他离开建设完成的方舱时，都会拍照留念，他觉得特殊时期，能为武汉做点事很开心，“之后还想去白沙洲市场批发点蔬菜送过去给他们。
On March 12, Wuhan overcast, 11 days out of the soup Nucleic acid negative results, he calculated that there are three days to go home; Wangdi received the community workers sent to his residence, Zhang Qi-hui, waiting for the next new cabin notice, every time he left the completed cabin, he felt happy to do something for Wuhan.
”图表：武汉市部分方舱医院开舱、休舱时间▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Charts: Some cabin hospitals in Wuhan City opened and closed. Click here to see more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
走出方舱后，夹缝中过渡的普通人 | 武汉现场。
Running out of the cabin, ordinary people in transition at the scene with Wuhan.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "走出方舱后，夹缝中过渡的普通人 | 武汉现场";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "重新回到外面的世界后，有人和民警拉锯，有人被邻居说“有毒”，有人怀念舱内时光，有人开始新的生活";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Re-entered the outside world with a chainsaw, someone called "toxic" by a neighbour, someone nostalgic for cabin time, and someone who started new life and quot;;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
