世卫宣布疫情全球“大流行”，美禁飞欧洲，美股跌入熊市。
WHO declared a global "pandemic," the United States banned Europe, the U. S. stock market fell into a bear market.
金焱。
Yan, Jin.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
世卫组织承认为遏制疫情暴发的区域努力已经失败，一些经济学家担心美国经济可能已经进入衰退文|《财经》特派记者金焱发自华盛顿 编辑| 苏琦在多次延迟之后，当地时间3月11日晚，世界卫生组织总干事谭德塞在日内瓦表示，新冠肺炎疫情“已具有全球大流行病特征”。
WHO acknowledges that regional efforts to contain the outbreak have failed, with some economists worried that the US economy may have entered a recession. Yan Jin, a correspondent for Caijing, came from Washington, D.C., on the evening of March 11, the World Health Organization's Director-General, Tim Tanner, said in Geneva that the outbreak had "acquired the characteristics of a global pandemic."
世卫组织警告说，最坏情况还在后面。
WHO warns that the worst is yet to come.
受疫情全球加剧影响，以及美国政府未能出台预期中的经济刺激计划，美国股市3月11日再次全线下跌，道琼斯指数今年以来累积跌幅超过20%，进入投资者恐慌的熊市区间。
Shares fell across the board again March 11, as the global impact of the epidemic intensified and the U.S. government failed to deliver the expected stimulus plan, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average down more than 20% this year, entering a bear market zone of investor panic.
特朗普总统3月11日在白宫椭圆形办公室就新冠病毒疫情对全美国发表电视讲话。
President Trump made a televised speech across the United States on March 11 in the Oval Office of the White House about the new crown virus.
他宣布从3月13日星期五午夜开始，30天内禁止美国与除了英国之外的欧洲国家的旅行。
He announced that travel between the United States and European countries other than the United Kingdom would be banned for 30 days, starting at midnight on Friday, 13 March.
最近一次被世卫组织冠以“大流行病”疫情的是2009年H1N1流感病毒大爆发。
The last time the WHO called the pandemic was the 2009 H1N1 influenza pandemic.
新冠肺炎疫情开始在中国境外迅速蔓延时，世卫组织一直没有把它定性为世界大流行疾病，主要考虑是不希望引起恐慌，担心它对控制疫情蔓延无济于事。
When the outbreak began to spread rapidly outside China, WHO did not characterize it as a world pandemic, mainly because it did not want to cause panic, fearing that it would do little to control the spread of the outbreak.
接受《财经》记者采访的多位卫生专家表示，此时世卫组织宣布与否意义已经不是很大了。
Health experts interviewed by Caijing said the WHO announcement was no longer significant at the moment.
根据世卫组织公布的数据，在过去两周中情势急转直下，中国境外的2019冠状肺炎感染病例增加了13倍，受影响的国家数量增加了两倍。
According to data released by WHO, the past two weeks have seen a sharp decline, with cases of 2019 coronary pneumonia outside China increasing 13-fold and the number of affected countries tripling.
世卫组织总干事谭德塞表示，目前全球已有114个国家和地区出现新冠肺炎病例， 但宣布大流行病的决定不会改变世卫组织目前针对新冠肺炎的工作。
WHO Director-General Theresa Tupper said there were 114 new cases of pneumonia worldwide, but the decision to declare a pandemic would not change WHO's current work on new crown pneumonia.
世卫组织承认为遏制疫情暴发的区域努力已经失败。
WHO acknowledges that regional efforts to contain the outbreak have failed.
美国对外关系委员会全球卫生高级研究员黄严忠对《财经》记者表示，各国各地区应该根据自己的实际情况，如果遏制病毒仍有效果，就应该继续努力；但如果疫情已经扩散，就应该采取止损策略。
Countries and regions should continue their efforts if containment is still effective, but stop-loss strategies should be adopted if the epidemic has spread, Huang Yan-chung, a senior global health researcher at the Council on Foreign Relations, told Caijing.
美国东部当地时间3月11日，美股三大股指全线重挫，道指跌近1500点，自今年高点累计回落逾20%。
The three-stock index fell nearly 1,500 points to more than 20 per cent from their highs this year.
道指下跌1464.84点，报23553.32点，跌幅为5.86%，较此前高点跌去20%以上，进入技术性熊市；标普500指数下跌140.83点，报2741.40点，跌幅为4.89%；纳指下跌392.20点，报7952.05点，跌幅为4.70%。
The Dow fell 1464.84 points, or 5.86%, to 23553.32, down more than 20% from its previous high and into a technical bear market. The S & P 500 fell 140.83 points, or 4.89%, to 2741.40, while the index fell 392.20 points, or 4.70%, to 7952.05.
道指成分股波音（NYSE:BA）暴跌18.13%，此前加拿大航空削减了11架该款飞机的订单，占总数的18%。
The Dow Jones Industrial Average Boeing (NYSE: BA) tumbled 18.13% after Air Canada cut orders for 11 of the aircraft, or 18% of the total.
标普500指数11个板块全线下跌，工业和金融板块领跌，医疗板块的跌幅最小。
The S & P 500 was down across 11 sectors, led by industry and finance, with health falling the least.
银行股是这波股市暴跌中最大的损失者，下挫约30%。
Banking stocks were the biggest losers from the stock market crash, down about 30%.
摩根大通一位不具名经济学家对《财经》记者指出，市场的忧虑情绪很重，不过现在还恐慌还未出现达到峰值的迹象。
'The market is very worried, but there's no sign of a peak yet, 'an unnamed J.P. Morgan economist told Caijing.
现在还有太多与疫情相关的变量有待一一化解。
There are still too many variables related to the epidemic to be resolved.
在这个前提下，一部分投资人相信美股会持续再跌，甚至不排除再下跌30%左右。
Under this premise, some investors believe that the U. S. stock will continue to decline, or even exclude a further decline of about 30%.
因为随着新的检测手段到位，美国及全球的感染人数会继续增加。
The number of people infected in the United States and around the world will continue to rise as new tests are put in place.
根据中国的疫情经验，恐慌与新增病例数成正比，直到新增开始下降。
Based on China's experience, panic is proportional to the number of new cases, until new cases start to fall.
美股看疫情的脸色此前一天美股再现千点巨震。
U. S. stocks to see the epidemic's face the day before the U. S. shares reproduce a thousand-point earthquake.
当天开盘涨超900点后一度全线转跌，道指跌超100点，尾盘再度大幅拉升，三大指数均涨逾4%，道指暴涨1167.14点。
The day after trading rose 900 points across the board, the Dow fell more than 100 points, the end of a sharp rally, all three indexes rose more than 4%, Dow jumped 1167.14 points.
有数据显示，截至当地时间10日23时，美国新冠肺炎确诊病例增至1004例，累计死亡31人。
By 2300 local time, the number of confirmed cases of pneumonia in the United States had risen to 1,004, with a cumulative total of 31 deaths.
到3月11日，美国新冠肺炎病例在48小时内翻了一番。
By March 11, the number of cases of pneumonia in the United States had doubled in 48 hours.
此前市场等待美国总统特朗普提出的新一轮财政刺激措施落地，但白宫迟迟没有实际动作。
Markets had been waiting for a new round of fiscal stimulus from US President Donald Trump, but the White House had been slow to act.
美国财长努钦则称：“没有市场干预计划”。
US Treasury Secretary Boris Nuchin said: "There is no market intervention plan."
有知情人士透露，特朗普对参议员们说，他想让工薪税免税期一直持续到大选之后。
Trump told senators that he wanted the payroll tax holiday to last beyond the election, according to people familiar with the matter.
美国总统特朗普未在白宫当天的新冠疫情吹风会上露面，此前一天，他承诺要举行新闻发布会，宣布“重大”经济刺激一揽子方案。
US President Trump did not make his appearance at the White House's New Crown Briefing on the day after promising a press conference to announce a "significant" economic stimulus package.
另外，有消息称，特朗普正在考虑宣布进入“国家级灾难”状态，以便腾出资金用于联邦政府应对迅速蔓延的新冠病毒疫情。
Moreover, it is reported that Trump is considering declaring a "national catastrophe" in order to free up funds for the federal government's response to the rapidly spreading New Crown Virus epidemic.
据美国政治新闻网站Politico报道，根据《斯塔福法案》(Stafford Act)的规定，此举可能释放出最多400亿美元的即时援助资金。
According to Politico, the US political news website, this could release up to $40bn of immediate aid money under the Stafford Act.
在特朗普对新的刺激措施尚有迟疑之际，特朗普政府面临更多控制疫情不力的质疑。
While Trump hesitates about new stimulus measures, the Trump administration faces more questions about its lack of effective control of the epidemic.
卫生专家警告称，局势可能进一步恶化。
Health experts have warned that the situation could deteriorate further.
美国近四分之三的州报告了确诊病例之际，美国卫生部长阿扎尔（Alex Azar）3月11日表示，联邦领导正在与疫情最严重的州的地方官员合作，包括华盛顿州、加利福尼亚州、纽约州、马萨诸塞州和佛罗里达州。
As nearly three-quarters of U.S. states report confirmed cases, U.S. Health Secretary Alex Azar said March 11 that federal leaders are working with local officials in the most affected states, including Washington, California, New York, Massachusetts and Florida.
然而，纽约州州长、民主党人科莫（Andrew Cuomo）当天表示，联邦官员已让各州自行采取行动，加大对这种致命病毒的检测。
However, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo, a Democrat, said the same day that federal officials had asked the states to act on their own to increase testing for the deadly virus.
新冠肺炎疫情还在美国持续蔓延，增加了市场对疫情会影响美国实体经济的担忧。
The outbreak continues to spread in the United States, raising concerns that the outbreak could affect the U. S. real economy.
美联储在不久前刚刚紧急降息后，再次增加向银行提供的隔夜拆借贷款的资金量，将最高额度提高到了1750亿美元。
The Fed raised its overnight lending to banks again to a maximum of $175 billion, just after a recent emergency rate cut.
纽约联储3月11日发表声明称，将把隔夜回购操作提供的资金量上限从周一刚刚调高后的1500亿美元进一步提升至1750亿美元。
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York said in a statement on March 11 that it would raise the limit on overnight repo funding to $175 billion from $150 billion, which was raised just Monday.
此外，美联储还延长了450亿美元的两周回购计划，并增加了500亿美元的一个月期回购计划。
In addition, the Fed extended the $45 billion two-week buy-back plan and added $50 billion to the one-month repo plan.
将在下周再次召开会议，目前市场普遍预期美联储到时候会再次降息，甚至不排除还会提早行动。
It will meet again next week, when it is widely expected that the Fed will cut interest rates again, or even rule out early action.
美国国立卫生研究院（NIH）下的国家过敏和传染病研究所（NIAID）所长安东尼·S·福西（Anthony S. Fauci）3月11日表示，虽然新冠疫情已经影响全国，但最糟糕的情况还没有到来。
Anthony S. Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) under the National Institutes of Health (NIH), said on March 11 that while the new crown had affected the country, the worst was yet to come.
“尽管在某些方面我们控制住了疫情，但还是不断有其他国家的人入境，加上社区的传播，挑战变得更大，”他在众议院监督委员会作证时说。
"Although in some ways we have brought the epidemic under control, there are still people from other countries coming in, and the spread of the community makes the challenge all the more challenging," he said, testifying before the House Oversight Committee.
“所以我可以说，我们会看到更多病例，情况会比现在更遭。
"So I can say that we're going to see more cases and it's going to be worse than it is now.
”短期的黯然前景一周前的3月4日，美国副总统彭斯曾表示，到本周结束时，将提供约150万个测试剂。
Short-term gloom On March 4 a week ago, US Vice President Burns said about 1.5 million tests would be available by the end of the week.
总统特朗普3月6日更是对媒体说，“任何想要检测的人，都会得到检测”。
President Trump told the press on March 6 that "anyone who wants to be tested will be tested."
但由于美国联邦政府今年2月发放的新冠病毒检测试剂盒出现了一个未经确认的缺陷，导致一些检测结果不真实，使得美国的疫情继续蔓延。
But an unconfirmed defect in the federal government's February issue of a new crown virus test kit has led to untrue test results that continue to spread in the United States.
医疗服务提供商表示，由于联邦和州一级的监管障碍，以及后勤和技术方面的挑战，检测数量要比预计中的少得多。
Health-care providers indicated that the number of tests was much lower than expected owing to regulatory barriers at the federal and state levels, as well as logistical and technical challenges.
纽约州和华盛顿州正在努力提高检测新冠病毒的能力，以使当地医生不必依赖于将检测结果送到疾病预防控制中心集中检测。
New York and Washington are working to improve their ability to detect the new crown virus so that local doctors do not have to rely on sending test results to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for centralized testing.
当地官员估计，可能还需要几周时间才能达到检测能力的峰值。
Local officials estimate it may take weeks to reach the peak detection capacity.
3月11日谭德塞还表示，“我们预计病例数字、死亡人数，以及受影响国家的数量将持续攀升。
"We expect the number of cases, the number of deaths and the number of affected countries to continue to rise," Mr Tanner said on March 11.
世卫组织一直在24小时全天候对这次疫情做出评估。
WHO has been conducting a round-the-clock assessment of the outbreak.
” 谭德塞对记者说：“对目前的疫情我们深感忧虑。
"We are deeply concerned about the current epidemic," he told reporters.
主要是因令人震惊的传播范围和严重程度；以及目前对疫情不作为情况。
Mainly due to the alarming spread and severity of the epidemic; and the current inaction on the epidemic.
”有专家对《财经》记者表示，世卫组织面对全球疫情蔓延的不作为，是在暗指美国。
Experts told Caijing that the WHO's inaction in the face of the global epidemic implied the United States.
新冠病毒已在全球蔓延，感染了超过12.1万人。
The new crown virus has spread around the world and infected more than 121,000 people.
目前疫情已经在全球几大洲以人传人的方式传播，大约90%的病例发生在四个国家，其中中国和韩国的病例数量“显著下降”。
The epidemic has spread from person to person on several continents, with about 90 per cent of cases occurring in four countries, with "significant declines" in China and South Korea.
此外，有81个国家未报告任何病例；另有57个国家报告了10例或更少的病例，因此它们还有将疫情扼杀于摇篮的希望。
In addition, 81 countries did not report any cases; a further 57 countries reported 10 or fewer cases, so they still had hope of killing the epidemic in its cradle.
但对美国经济的担心已然开始在美国股票和债券市场显现。
But worries about the US economy are already starting to manifest themselves in US equity and bond markets.
随着疫情的蔓延，美国人的日常生活愈加受到限制，集会被取消，雇员在家工作，美国境内包括常春藤名校在内的多所大学陆续宣布采取停课或线上教学等应对措施。
As the epidemic spreads, Americans are increasingly restricted in their daily lives, assemblies are cancelled, employees work from home, and many universities in the United States, including Ivy League schools, have responded by suspending classes or teaching online.
比如哈佛大学官网发布公告称，要求学生春假后不要返校，麻省理工大学在其官网宣布从3月16日开始，暂停所有课程；从3月30日开始在线授课。
For example, according to a Harvard University Web site bulletin that requires students not to return to school after spring break, Massachusetts Institute of Technology announced on its website that all courses will be suspended from March 16, and online classes will begin on March 30.
芝加哥3月11日宣布取消原定于3月14日的圣帕特里克节游行。
Chicago announced on March 11 that it would cancel the St. Patrick's Day parade scheduled for March 14.
纽约州宣布将在纽约州新罗谢尔市设立“控制区”（containment area）以遏制新冠病毒传播。
The state of New York announced it would establish a "containment area" in New Rochelle, New York, to contain the spread of the new crown virus.
美联储前副主席、普林斯顿大学教授阿兰·布兰德（Alan Blinder）3月11日表示，美国经济可能已经进入衰退。
Alan Blinder, a former Fed vice-chairman and Princeton professor, said March 11 that the US economy could be in recession.
他说：“如果我们此后回顾数据，最终确定经济衰退始于3月，我对此将不会感到惊讶。
"I wouldn't be surprised if we looked back and finally determined that the recession started in March," he said.
”　布兰德说，当前经济不景气的原因是“害怕购物”，并在有感染病毒风险的公共场所逗留。
Brand said the reason for the current economic downturn was "fear of shopping" and spending time in public places where people were at risk of contracting the virus.
人们不想去餐馆、购物中心，更不用说旅行了。
People don't want to go to restaurants or shopping centers, let alone travel.
在所有这些类别上的支出可能已经直线下降，并且下降速度要比系统记录快得多。
Expenditure on all these categories may have plummeted and declined much faster than recorded in the system.
为此，他建议美国政府考虑实施可以立即产生影响的刺激措施，例如让受影响的工人暂时休假，或减免部分工资税。
To that end, he recommended that the United States Government consider incentives that could have an immediate impact, such as temporary leave for affected workers or partial payroll tax relief.
美国财政部长姆努钦3月11日表示，多个行业将受到疫情影响，尤其是旅游业。
U. S. Treasury Secretary Timothy Mnutchin said March 11, a number of industries will be affected by the epidemic, particularly tourism.
这让人们担心疫情将极大的影响美国经济最大的组成部分——消费。
This has raised concerns that the epidemic will have a significant impact on consumption, the largest component of the US economy.
美国最新的原油产量数据还在上涨，让已经低迷的原油市场雪上加霜，美国轻质原油期货价格在美国时间周三盘中跌幅一度超过2.5%。
U.S. crude oil production figures are still rising, adding to the already weak oil market, with U.S. light crude prices falling more than 2.5% in midday U.S. time Wednesday.
整个德州、达科他、奥克拉荷马州的油厂都遇到困难、这些公司都借以高利贷为生。
The entire state of Texas, Dakota and Oklahoma have trouble processing oil plants, which they use to borrow money to make a living.
人们担心如果工厂倒闭将带来失业潮，并使消费萎缩。
There are fears that factory closures will create job losses and shrink consumption.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
世卫宣布疫情全球“大流行”，美禁飞欧洲，美股跌入熊市。
WHO declared a global "pandemic," the United States banned Europe, the U. S. stock market fell into a bear market.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "世卫宣布疫情全球“大流行”，美禁飞欧洲，美股跌入熊市";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; WHO declared a global pandemic; the U.S. banned Europe; and U.S. stocks fell to Bear & quot;;;.
var msg_desc = "世卫组织承认为遏制疫情暴发的区域努力已经失败，一些经济学家担心美国经济可能已经进入衰退";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; WHO acknowledges that regional efforts to contain the outbreak have failed, and some economists fear that the U.S. economy may have entered recession and quot;;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
