武汉市委原常委蔡杰因何被捕？敛财数额巨大，无涉疫情防控。
Wuhan Municipal Party Standing Committee Cai Jie why arrested? The amount of money, not involved in disease prevention and control.
黄姝静 等。
NINNINNINGJING INDUSTRY.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
权威信息显示：这位武汉正厅级官员落马与疫情防控无关，而是涉嫌受贿罪和滥用职权罪。
Authoritative information shows: the Wuhan official falling into the hall is not related to the epidemic prevention and control, but suspected of bribery and abuse of power.
2019年8月，他已在接受湖北省纪委监委纪律审查和监察调查，并被采取留置措施文|《财经》记者 黄姝静 俞琴 实习生刘梓桐编辑| 鲁伟正在疫情防控的关键时期，湖北省武汉市一位原正厅级官员被逮捕，引起外界关注。
In August 2019, he was under disciplinary review and inspection by the Hubei Provincial Disciplinary Commission and was detained. At the same time, a former official of Wuhan City, Hubei Province, was arrested and brought to the attention of the public at a crucial time in the prevention and control of the epidemic.
3月11日，最高检察院发布消息称，日前，湖北省人民检察院汉江分院以涉嫌受贿罪、滥用职权罪对武汉市委原常委、秘书长蔡杰作出逮捕决定。
The Hanjiang branch of the Hubei Provincial People's Procuratorate issued a decision to arrest Wuhan Municipal People's Procuratorate's former Standing Committee and Secretary-General Cai Masterpiece on suspicion of bribery and abuse of power, the Supreme Procuratorate said.
从公开信息看，蔡杰被逮捕与当前疫情防控没有关系。
From open information, Cai Jie's arrest is not related to the current epidemic prevention and control.
他最后一次公开露面是在2019年8月20日。
His last public appearance was on 20 August 2019.
6天后，2019年8月26日湖北省纪委监委发布消息：蔡杰涉嫌严重违纪和职务违法，正在接受湖北省纪委监委纪律审查和监察调查，并被采取留置措施。
Six days later, on August 26, 2019, the Disciplinary Commission of Hubei Province issued a report: Cai Jie is under investigation by the Disciplinary Commission of the Hubei Province for disciplinary examination and supervision, and has been placed under detention.
如今半年时间过去，蔡杰案正在进一步办理中。
Now half a year has passed, Cai Jie case is being processed further.
根据有关部门通报，蔡杰不久前已被“双开”，其涉嫌受贿、滥用职权一案，由湖北省监察委员会调查终结，移送检察机关审查起诉。
Cai Jie was recently "double-opened," according to the department concerned, and his alleged bribery and abuse of power case were closed by the Hubei Provincial Monitoring Committee and sent to the procuratorial organs for examination and prosecution.
2020年3月11日晚，《财经》记者致电湖北省纪委党风政风监督室有关人士，询问蔡杰被逮捕一事的更多细节。
On the evening of March 11, 2020, Caijing reporter phoned a member of the Party wind and political supervision office of Hubei Province to ask for more details about Cai Jie's arrest.
该室多位人士均回应称，不掌握案件细节。
Various people in the room responded that they did not have details of the case.
现年53岁的蔡杰为湖北武汉人，从政31年，从未离开家乡。
Mr. Cai, 53, from Wuhan, Hubei province, spent 31 years in politics and never left his hometown.
落马之前，蔡杰乐于通过发布文章、参与电视节目等方式公开表达、高调亮相，在反腐倡廉方面频出“金句”。
Before the fall, Cai Jie was willing to publish articles, participate in TV programs and other means of public expression, high-profile, anti-corruption and integrity in the frequent "golden sentence.
蔡杰曾发表文章称“对奢侈浪费、铺张奢华的现象和行为十分反感”；曾在电视问政节目上针对投诉直言“惭愧”；他甚至与焦裕禄相比，表示自己“奋斗精神、担当勇气相差较远”。
Cai Jie has published articles saying that "extravagance and waste, extravagance and extravagance of the phenomenon and behavior"; once on television political programs to complain about "shame"; he even compared with Jiao Yu-luo, said his "spirit of struggle, take courage difference."
3月11日，《财经》记者联系到一位曾接触过蔡杰的湖北官员。
On March 11, Caijing reporter contacted a Hubei official who had been in contact with Cai Jie.
该人士表示蔡杰落马前看上去挺正派，“贪官看不出来”。
The source said that Cai Jie fell from the horse before looking quite decent, "corrupt officials do not see."
敛财数额特别巨大蔡杰最后一次公开露面是在2019年8月20日。
Chua's last public appearance was on August 20, 2019, when he made a particularly large fortune.
其时，担任武汉市委常委、秘书长的蔡杰为市委办公厅、市委国安办、市直机关工委党员干部讲党课。
At that time, as Wuhan Standing Committee, the Secretary-General of Cai Jie for the municipal office, municipal security office, municipal organs working committee Party cadres lectures.
蔡杰在讲话中强调，要坚持“严”字当头、学用结合，持续整治形式主义、官僚主义，努力锻造践行“三个表率”的铁军。
In his speech, Cai Jie stressed the need to adhere to the word "strict" in combination with learning, continuing to clean up formalism, bureaucracy, and hard to practice the "three leading" iron army.
此后仅6天，2019年8月26日，湖北省纪委监委发布消息：蔡杰涉嫌严重违纪和职务违法，正在接受湖北省纪委监委纪律审查和监察调查，并被采取留置措施。
Only six days later, on August 26, 2019, the Disciplinary Commission of Hubei Province issued a report: Cai Jie, suspected of serious disciplinary infractions and illegal duties, is under investigation by the Disciplinary Commission of the Hubei Province Disciplinary Commission and is being detained.
蔡杰是2019年继武汉市委原常委、武汉开发区工委原书记、汉南区委原书记胡洪春落马后，武汉被查的又一位在任市委官员。
Cai Jie is 2019 after Wuhan Municipal Committee of the former Standing Committee, Wuhan Development Zone, the former Secretary of the Wuhan Development Zone, former party secretary Hu Hongchun dropped horse, Wuhan was investigated another incumbent municipal official.
2019年3月21日，胡洪春因涉嫌严重违纪和职务违法被查。
On 21 March 2019, Hu Hongchun was investigated on suspicion of serious disciplinary offences and official offences.
同年11月，胡洪春因涉嫌受贿罪、滥用职权罪被提起公诉。
In November of the same year, Hu Hongchun was indicted on suspicion of bribery and abuse of power.
2020年2月22日，湖北省纪委监委网站通报，蔡杰被开除党籍和公职并移送司法机关依法处理。
On February 22, 2020, the website of the Disciplinary Commission of Hubei Province announced that Cai Jie had been removed from his party membership and public office and transferred to judicial organs for legal treatment.
经湖北省纪委监委纪律审查和监察调查，蔡杰涉嫌受贿罪，其“在工程项目承接、违章建筑产权办理等事项上为他人谋取利益，直接或通过特定关系人索取、非法收受他人财物，数额特别巨大”；蔡杰还因“违规决定将财政资金拨付给私营企业，情节特别严重”，涉嫌滥用职权罪。
After disciplinary examination and supervision investigation by the Disciplinary Commission of Hubei Province, Cai Jie was suspected of accepting bribes, which he "claimed and illegally accepted from other people, directly or through specific parties, for the benefit of others in such matters as undertaking projects and handling illegal construction property rights.
根据湖北省纪委监委纪律审查和监察调查，蔡杰违反政治纪律；违反组织纪律；违反廉洁纪律；违反国家法律法规。
According to the disciplinary examination and supervision investigation of Hubei Disciplinary Commission, Cai Jie violated political discipline, organizational discipline, integrity and discipline, and national laws and regulations.
蔡杰因“在工程项目承接、违章建筑产权办理等事项上为他人谋取利益”涉嫌受贿广受关注。
Cai Jie for "project acceptance, illegal construction property rights management and other matters for the benefit of others" is widely concerned about bribery.
在落马之前，蔡杰曾公开发表署名文章，称要：“把好重大项目决策关，坚持民主决策、集体决策、阳光决策，防止用地腐败、工程腐败”。
Before the fall, Cai Jie had published a byline article, saying: "Good decision-making on major projects, adhere to democratic decision-making, collective decision-making, sunshine decision-making, prevent land-use corruption, project corruption."
此外，《长江日报》2014年6月18日发表的题为《武汉江岸区委常委班子专题民主生活会纪实》的报道显示，时任江岸区区委书记的蔡杰在前述会议上带头向自己“开炮”：“自己在班子任职时间长，区里情况熟，思想上逐步滋生了以‘我’为中心的潜意识，有时凭主观意志办事，有骄傲自满的情绪和急功近利的思想”、“只满足于经济发展中市级项目完成和重大项目、重大工程落实，忽视打基础、管长远的工作”。
Moreover, Cai Jie, then Secretary of the District Council of the Yangtze River Region, led the charge at the conference: "His long tenure in the Party, his familiarity with the district, and his gradual cultivation of self-centered subconscious mind, sometimes subjective will, arrogance and major projects, major projects implementation, neglect basic and long-term work.
2019年8月25日，武汉市委常委会召开“不忘初心、牢记使命”专题民主生活会，按照中央关于“四个对照”、“四个找一找”的重要要求，盘点收获、检视问题、深刻剖析。
On August 25, 2019, the Standing Committee of the Wuhan Municipal Committee held a meeting on the theme of "Remember the First Mind and Remember the Mission."
会上，蔡杰作为当时的市委常委作个人检视剖析发言，“大家在发言中敞开心扉、畅所欲言，自我批评敢于揭短亮丑”。
At the meeting, Cai Masterpiece made a personal diagnosis for the then Standing Committee of the CPC. "Everybody was open-minded and open-minded, and self-criticism dared to reveal the truth."
上述民主生活会开完的第二天，蔡杰落马。
The day after the democratic meeting, Cai Jie dropped his horse.
曾声称要“做焦裕禄那样的好书记”蔡杰被查前，其仕途一直在武汉。
Tsai Jie, who claimed to be "a good secretary like Jiao Yu-luo," had been working in Wuhan.
他历任共青团武昌区委书记；武昌区委常委、办公室主任；江岸区委常委、区委办公室主任、副区长、区委副书记、代理区长、区长、区委书记。
He was Secretary of Wuchang District Committee of the Communist Youth League, Chief of Staff, Standing Committee of Wuchang District Committee, Chief of Staff of District Committee, Deputy District Governor, Deputy Secretary of District Committee, Acting District Governor, District Secretary and District Secretary.
2016年1月至其被查，任武汉市委常委、市委秘书长。
January 2016 to its investigation, Wuhan City Standing Committee, the Secretary-General of the Municipal Committee.
落马之前，蔡杰频频撰文，高调表态。
Before falling, Cai Jie wrote frequently, high-pitched position.
2014年4月7日，蔡杰在《湖北日报》发表了一篇题为《做焦裕禄那样的好书记》的署名文章。
On April 7, 2014, Cai Jie published an op-ed in Hubei Daily titled "Be a Good Secretary like Jiao Yulu."
他在文章中表示，践行新时期焦裕禄精神，做一名人民满意的“好书记”，必须强化三种意识，即一心一意为人民服务，强化宗旨意识；一切从实际出发，强化担当意识；一身正气两袖清风，强化清廉意识。
In his article, he said that to practice the spirit of Jiao Yu-luo in the new era and to be a "good secretary" to the satisfaction of the people requires strengthening three senses, that is, serving the people wholeheartedly and strengthening the sense of purpose.
2014年7月14日，蔡杰又在《湖北日报》发表了《扫除“四风”之垢》一文，承前作之风，该文开篇即强调“以焦裕禄同志为榜样，对照他的求实作风、公仆情怀、奋斗精神和道德情操，我对自身‘四风’之垢来一次大透视、大扫除。
On July 14, 2014, Cai Jie published the article "Sweep the Four winds" in the Hubei Daily. In the beginning of the article, he emphasized that "Comrade Jiao Yulu as an example, against his pragmatism, public servant's feelings, struggle spirit and moral sentiment, I have a big perspective on their own 'four winds' scale.
”蔡杰在文中表示，“与焦裕禄相比，自己无论是工作条件还是生活条件都改善许多，但奋斗精神、担当勇气相差较远。
"Compared with Jiao Yu-luo, he has improved his working and living conditions a lot, but his fighting spirit and courage are far from being the same," he said.
”蔡杰还在上述文章中反思道，“我出身于城市普通居民家庭，对奢侈浪费、铺张奢华的现象和行为十分反感，但在实际工作中对一些奢靡现象反对和制止还不够坚决。
Cai Jie also reflected in the above-mentioned article, "I was born in a common urban household, extravagance and waste, extravagance and extravagance of the phenomenon and behavior very disgusting, but in the actual work of some extravagant phenomenon and not strong enough to oppose and stop.
”2015年1月，武汉市开展2014年“十个突出问题”承诺整改电视问政“期末考”活动。
In January 2015, Wuhan launched its "Ten Outstanding Issues" campaign in 2014, promising to revamp TV's "Final Examination."
时任江岸区区委书记的蔡杰参与其中。
At that time Jiangan District Party Secretary Cai Jie participated.
据当地媒体报道，针对节目曝光的区值班热线特定时间无人接听的问题，蔡杰表示“惭愧”，并强调“责任首先在我，这是全区值班总电话，我做出的承诺，哪一个兵犯错，都是主官犯错，因为我的干部我没有带好。
Cai said he was "ashamed" that no one answered the call at a particular time and stressed that "the responsibility lies first with me. This is the general line on duty in the district.
”在公开场合屡屡强调要“永葆清正廉洁本色”的蔡杰， 显然没有抵挡住诱惑。
Cai Jie, who has repeatedly stressed the need to "always maintain integrity" in public, has apparently not resisted the temptation.
根据有关部门通报，蔡杰“身为党员领导干部，理想信念缺失，背弃初心使命，索贿受贿，擅权妄为，严重违反党的纪律和国家法律，并涉嫌犯罪。
Cai Jie, according to the notice of the relevant departments, "as a leading cadre of Party members, lacking ideal and belief, betraying his original mission, extorting bribes, abusing power, seriously violating Party discipline and state laws, and suspected of committing crimes.
”▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the epidemic: Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉市委原常委蔡杰因何被捕？敛财数额巨大，无涉疫情防控。
Wuhan Municipal Party Standing Committee Cai Jie why arrested? The amount of money, not involved in disease prevention and control.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉市委原常委蔡杰因何被捕？敛财数额巨大，无涉疫情防控";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Why was Cai Jie, a former standing committee member of Wuhan Municipal Committee, arrested?
var msg_desc = "权威信息显示：这位武汉正厅级官员落马与疫情防控无关，而是涉嫌受贿罪和滥用职权罪。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; authoritative information: The Wuhan official's fall was not related to the epidemic, but to alleged bribery and abuse of power.
2019年8月，他已在接受湖北省纪委监委纪律审查和监察调查，并被采取留置措施";。
In August 2019, he was subject to disciplinary review and inspection by the Hubei Provincial Disciplinary Committee, and was placed at Ren & quot;;;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
