疫后经济重建，“新基建”靠得住吗?。
After the epidemic economic reconstruction, the "new infrastructure" is reliable.
郑志刚。
Zheng Zhigang.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
一些学者鼓吹的作为疫后重建经济政策重点的“新基建”,事实上还停留在概念中。
The "new infrastructure" advocated by some scholars as the focus of economic policy for post-epidemic reconstruction is, in fact, still conceptual.
我们不应该再流连于饮鸩止渴式的短期经济刺激，而贻误推进中国进行深层次结构性改革的绝佳战机文|郑志刚在围绕新冠肺炎疫情结束后，如何抑制经济下行态势的公共政策讨论中，主张投资所谓“新基建”的新一轮经济刺激建议逐步浮出水面。
Instead of staying on top of the current plague of short-term economic stimulus, Zheng Zhigang, an excellent fighter for China's deep structural reforms, is emerging as part of a public-policy debate about how to contain the economic downturn after the end of the new crown pneumonia epidemic.
区别于传统以“铁公基”为主的旧基建，按照一些学者解释，所谓“新基建”指的是发力于科技端的基础设施建设，它涵盖特高压、新能源汽车充电桩、5G基站建设、大数据中心、人工智能、工业互联网和城际高速铁路和城际轨道交通等7大领域。
Unlike the traditional "iron-based" infrastructure, the so-called "new infrastructure," as some scholars explain it, refers to the construction of infrastructure on the technology side, covering seven major areas: ultra-high pressure, charging piles of new energy vehicles, construction of 5G base stations, large data centres, artificial intelligence, industrial Internet, and intercity high-speed rail and intercity rail.
这些学者进一步指出，“新基建”所涉及的领域全都是中国经济未来发展的短板，有些还是被国外“卡脖子”的环节，“哪怕现在不干，将来总有一天还是得干”。
They further argue that "new infrastructure" is all about the future of China's economy, and that some are stuck in the "neck" of foreign countries, "if not now, one day they will have to do it."
新基建项目似乎在疫后中国的经济重建中大有不推不可之势。
New infrastructure projects seem to be an inevitable part of China's post-epidemic economic reconstruction.
在中国疫后的经济重建中，这些新基建项目究竟能够扮演怎样的角色呢？如何看待“新基建”概念？第一，不同于旧基建，即使加大这些新基建领域的财政投入，这些新基建拉动经济的作用也十分有限。
What is the role of these new infrastructure projects in the post-epidemic economic reconstruction of China? How do we view the concept of "new infrastructure"? First, unlike the old infrastructure, these new infrastructures have limited economic impact even if financial investment in these new infrastructure areas is increased.
我们知道，为应对2008年全球金融风暴发起的“4万亿”经济刺激计划，很大程度和范围是投入铁路、公路、机场等公用基础设施建设。
We know that the "$4 trillion" stimulus package launched in response to the global financial turmoil of 2008 was largely and extensively devoted to the construction of public infrastructure such as railways, roads and airports.
而在这些领域的投入增加必然带动中游的建筑和运输等产业，以及上游的钢铁、煤炭、原材料等产业的发展。
Increased investment in these areas will inevitably lead to the development of industries such as construction and transport in the middle reaches, as well as upstream industries such as steel, coal and raw materials.
而无论上游的钢铁、煤炭、原材料产业，还是中游的建筑、运输产业，都可以接纳大量的产业工人就业。
No matter upstream of steel, coal, raw materials industry, or middle-school construction, transport industry, can accept a large number of industrial workers employment.
四万亿基建投入由此被寄予撬动相关产业发展的“杠杆”重任。
Four trillion capital investment is invested in leveraging the development of related industries "leverage."
一方面促进经济增长，一方面扩大就业，以此实现振兴整个国民经济的目的。
On the one hand to promote economic growth, on the one hand to expand employment, thereby achieving the goal of revitalizing the entire national economy.
这事实上是上一轮经济刺激计划设计者的初衷和凯恩斯主义刺激经济政策的“原教旨”。
This was, in fact, the original intent of the architects of the last round of stimulus packages and the Keynesian "fundamentalism" of stimulus policies.
只不过由于在实施过程中政府财政投入占大头，以国有企业为主力，“花别人的钱，办别人的事”，“既不讲效率也不讲成本”（弗里德曼）的机制和体制，不可避免地导致相关产业扩张过度，结果出现了严重的产能过剩。
But because the government spends most of its money on implementation, with state-owned enterprises as the main force, "spending other people's money and doing other people's business," "neither efficiency nor cost" (Friedman) mechanisms and institutions inevitably lead to excessive expansion of related industries, resulting in serious overcapacity.
中国又被迫发起持续至今的以“去产能、去杠杆和去僵尸”为内容的供给侧结构性改革，以消除上一轮经济刺激计划遗留下来的产能过剩、杠杆高企和僵尸企业盛行等副作用；同样的原因，2013年以来中国不得不发动以所有制混合为特征的新一轮国企改革，以解决产能过剩、效益下滑后国有企业暴露出来的体制和机制问题。
Just as China has been forced to launch its ongoing supply-side structural reforms, which focus on "de-productive, deleveraging, and zombie," in order to eliminate the side effects of excess capacity, high leverage, and the zombie epidemic inherited from the previous stimulus package, China has since 2013 had to launch a new wave of state-owned enterprise reforms, characterized by mixed ownership, to address the institutional and institutional problems exposed by SOEs after overcapacity and declining efficiency.
在所谓“新基建”涵盖的7大领域中，我们看到，城际高速铁路和城际轨道交通在性质上依然属于传统的“铁公基”范畴的旧基建。
Of the seven areas covered by the so-called "new infrastructure," we see that the intercity high-speed railway and inter-city rail transit are still traditional "iron-based" old infrastructure in nature.
高铁在过去十年中在中国快速发展是事实，但高铁发展形成的庞大债务也是毋庸讳言的事实。
The rapid growth of high-speed rail in China over the past decade is a fact, but the huge debt created by the development of high-speed rail is a fact of life.
这无疑为今后高铁保持良性持续发展带来隐患。
This undoubtedly for the future high-speed rail to maintain benign sustainable development brings hidden trouble.
即使在疫后，如果我们确实希望增加城际高速铁路和城际轨道交通等方面的投入（例如，第二条京沪高铁），如何平衡债务和发展的关系，如何采取更加有效率的铁路服务组织方式都是未来需要积极思考和认真面对的问题。
Even after the epidemic, if we really want to increase the input of inter-city high-speed railway and inter-city rail transportation (for example, the second Beijing-Shanghai high-speed railway), how to balance the debt-to-development relationship and how to adopt a more efficient way of organizing railway services are issues that need to be actively considered and seriously faced in the future.
除了在性质上依然属于旧基建的城际高速铁路和城际轨道交通，我们看到，被一些学者视为具有新基建“硬核科技”典型特征的5G基站建设、大数据中心、人工智能等其实并不具有传统“铁公基”的经济杠杆撬动作用。
In addition to the intercity high-speed railway and intercity rail transport, which are still old in nature, we see that the construction of 5G base stations, large data centres and artificial intelligence, which are regarded by some scholars as typical features of new infrastructure "hard core technology," do not have the traditional "iron-based" economic levers to leverage it.
它们中一些产业由于属于中国基础战略性产业，在产权性质上必须由国有控股，在业务开展范围上属于牌照管理的高管制行业；而另一些产业属于需要大量、持续和长期的前期研发投入和积累，无形中进入门槛很高，不是通过短期内砸钱就可以大干快上的。
Some of these industries are highly regulated industries that require substantial, sustained and long-term upfront R & D investment and accumulation, because they belong to China's basic strategic industries. Others are highly regulated industries that require substantial, sustained and long-term upfront R & D investment and accumulation.
我们可以把上述这些产业的特征概括为以下两个方面：其一，由于一些产业基于网络外部性所形成的半自然垄断属性，在一个产业内并不适合引入太多的竞争性企业，因而这些产业可接纳的企业数量十分有限；其二，这些高科技行业对员工素质有很高要求，进入门槛也高，相关技术人才过去缺乏，现在仍缺乏，将来依然会缺乏，因而这些产业能够接纳的就业人数十分有限。
The characteristics of these industries can be summarized as follows: first, because some industries are based on the semi-natural monopoly of network externalities, the number of enterprises that can be accommodated in these industries is very limited because they are not suitable for introducing too many competitive enterprises in an industry.
于是，我们看到，这些新基建产业，不能包容太多企业进入，即使能够进入，每个企业接纳的人数又十分有限。
As a result, we see that these new infrastructure industries cannot accommodate too many businesses, and even if they do, the number of people admitted to each enterprise is very limited.
因此，一些学者寄希望于通过加大这些新基建领域产业的财政投入，来实现稳增长和保就业的目的，这无异于缘木求鱼。
As a result, some scholars hope to achieve steady growth and job security by increasing financial investment in these new infrastructure industries.
第二，并不是所有新基建项目都适合财政投入，何况中国政府财政投入目前的空间十分有限。
Second, not all new infrastructure projects are financially viable, and the Chinese government's fiscal space is limited.
在上一轮经济刺激计划中，光伏产业就是在相关产业政策引导下，形成产能严重过剩的典型例子。
In the last round of stimulus packages, the photovoltaic industry was a typical example of a severe overcapacity under industrial policy.
为了改善生态环境，推动清洁能源的发展，近年来，中国围绕新能源产业先后出台了一些扶持和财政补贴政策。
In order to improve the ecological environment and promote the development of clean energy, China has launched a number of support and financial subsidies around the new energy industry in recent years.
除了暴露出来的“骗补”等丑闻，新能源产业已经出现了产能过剩的苗头。
In addition to the exposed "catch-up" scandal and other scandals, the new energy industry has shown signs of overcapacity.
有学者甚至不无担心地指出，“新能源有可能成为第二个光伏”。
Some scholars even point out with concern, "new energy may become a second photovoltaic."
对于新能源发展配套的新能源汽车充电桩，我们是继续采取以往新能源的发展策略，依靠财政补贴，还是鼓励相关企业和行业协会从提升服务质量的角度，完善配套设施，显然是一个值得商榷的问题。
It is a debatable question whether we should continue to adopt the development strategy of new energy sources, rely on financial subsidies, or encourage relevant enterprises and trade associations to improve the supporting facilities from the point of view of improving the quality of service.
这是由于这些新能源汽车充电桩，不仅有一个投入建设的问题，而且还有一个运营维护的问题。
This is due to these new energy car charging pile, not only has a construction input problem, but also an operation maintenance problem.
与一次性投入建设相比，也许如何使新能源汽车充电桩实现持续营运维护才是解决问题的根本。
Compared with the one-time investment construction, how to realize the continuous operation and maintenance of the new energy vehicle charging pile is the fundamental solution.
工业互联网曾经一度被认为是继消费互联网之后，互联网产业发展的第二个“风口”。
Industrial Internet was once regarded as the second "bellwether" of Internet industry development after the consumption of Internet.
但工业互联网建设始终面临的一个悖论是，依靠目的是解决信息不对称的互联网来解决看起来信息并非那么不对称的工业原材料和产品的供应需求问题。
But a paradox of industrial Internet construction has always been to rely on the Internet, which aims to address information asymmetries, to address the demand for supply of industrial raw materials and products that appear to be less asymmetric information.
这是因为无论供给还是需求，对于工业企业，它的企业数量十分有限。
This is because it has a very limited number of enterprises, both supply and demand, for industrial enterprises.
举例来说更容易理解，一个需要用煤发电的电厂从原本十分有限的供煤途径选择交易对象驾轻就熟，难道它还需要别出心裁地耗时耗力通过所谓的工业互联网来完成交易对象的选择？这是生产领域显然不同于消费领域的地方。
It is easier to understand, for example, that a power plant that uses coal to generate electricity is adept at choosing targets from an already limited supply of coal, and does it require ingenious, time-consuming efforts to complete the selection of targets through the so-called industrial Internet, where production is clearly different from consumption.
对于偏好和支付能力各异的成千上万的消费者和竞争市场结构下各类生产厂商存在的信息不对称，我们当然有必要通过建立消费互联网来解决消费者和厂商之间信息不对称。
There is certainly a need to address information asymmetries between consumers and manufacturers through the creation of consumer Internet for thousands of consumers with different preferences and ability to pay and information asymmetries that exist among various types of producers in competitive market structures.
但对于信息原本相对对称的厂商之间的原材料需求和供应问题，也许我们并不必然选择通过建立工业互联网来实现。
However, we may not necessarily choose to establish the industrial Internet to solve the problem of raw material demand and supply between vendors with symmetrical information.
科斯曾经说过，一项有效的制度取决于能否节省交易成本。
Coase has said that an effective system depends on saving transaction costs.
新冠肺炎疫情的暴发，无疑恶化了原本不宽松的财政收入，进一步拖累捉襟见肘的财政支出。
The outbreak of the New Crown Pneumonia, no doubt exacerbated the original loose fiscal revenue, a further drag on the stretched fiscal expenditure.
按照相关统计，中国大部分省市的财政收入是负增长，中国政府赤字率也已逐步扩大，我们通过进一步大规模发债来发动新一轮经济刺激计划究竟有多大的空间值得观察。
According to relevant statistics, the fiscal revenue of most provinces and municipalities is negative, and the deficit ratio of the Chinese government has been gradually increasing.
第三，抑制经济下滑趋势和疫后重建，也许更多应该通过结构性减税、降低一些行业的进入门槛和国企混改三方面，进行结构性改革来完成。
Third, curbing the economic downturn and post-epidemic reconstruction may require more structural reforms in the form of structural tax cuts, lower entry barriers in some sectors, and a mix of state-owned enterprises.
加快推进深层次结构性改革抑制疫后经济下滑趋势恶化的经济计划制定也许应该考虑以下三方面的原则。
Economic planning to accelerate deep-seated structural reforms to stem the deterioration of the post-epidemic economic downturn may need to consider the following three principles.
其一，相关经济政策，不是一部分企业和个人，而是尽可能多的企业和个人从中受益；其二，通过政策引导调动尽可能多的社会潜在资源积极参与，而不是依靠政府财政的有限支出和国有企业唱独角戏；其三，在新的经济政策下，产品和服务提供什么形式组织更能持久有效，而不是得过且过的短期行为。
First, economic policies benefit as many enterprises and individuals as possible, not a few, but as many as possible; second, active participation through policy guidance that mobilizes as many potential sources of society as possible, rather than relying on limited government spending and state-owned enterprises as monologues; and thirdly, what form of organization of goods and services is more sustainable and effective than muddled short-term behaviour under the new economic policy.
目前一些学者所建议的新基建领域的财政投入不仅只能使其中一部分产业和一部分个人受益，而且接纳就业、拉动经济的作用也十分有限。
At present, some scholars suggest that financial investment in new infrastructure should not only benefit only some of these industries and individuals, but also play a limited role in receiving employment and stimulating the economy.
按照上述三项原则，我们看到，一个更为根本而且长远的抑制疫后经济下滑趋势的经济计划也许是以结构性减税、降低甚至取消一些行业的进入门槛，和国有企业混改三个方面为内容的结构性改革。
In line with these three principles, we see that a more fundamental and long-term economic plan to contain the post-epidemic downturn may consist of structural tax cuts, lowering or even eliminating entry barriers in some sectors, and a mix of state-owned enterprises.
结构性减税是在减轻企业和个人总体税负的基础上，通过税收的结构调整，减少可能抑制居民消费需求和增加企业市场供给的税收征收范围和征收幅度。
On the basis of reducing the overall tax burden of enterprises and individuals, the structural tax reduction can reduce the scope and extent of tax collection which may restrain the consumer demand and increase the supply of enterprise market.
通过结构性减税使大部分居民的可支配收入增加，增加消费，刺激需求；同时使大部分企业税负水平降低，降低成本，增加利润，愿意增加市场供给。
Through structural tax cuts, the disposable income of the majority of the population increases, consumption increases, and demand is stimulated; at the same time, it reduces the tax burden of most businesses, reduces costs, increases profits, and is willing to increase the supply of markets.
我们注意到，为了应对石油价格波动导致的新一轮经济危机爆发的可能性，美国特朗普政府首先想到的依然是使大多数人受益的薪资税下调，和有针对地向受新冠疫情冲击的行业提供“极具实质性的纾困措施”。
We note that, in response to the possibility of a new economic crisis caused by oil-price volatility, the US Trump administration's first thoughts remain a payroll-tax cut that benefits the majority of the population, and a targeted "very substantial bailout package" for industries hit by the new cap.
降低、甚至取消一些行业的进入门槛，事实上可以在减少政府财政大量投入必要性的同时，能够最大程度地调动社会资源和民间资本参与到疫后重建中。
Reducing, or even removing, the entry barriers in some industries can, in fact, reduce the need for large-scale government financial input while maximizing the mobilization of social and private capital to participate in post-epidemic reconstruction.
例如，在城际高速铁路和城际轨道交通建设中，我们可以允许社会资本在持股比例上有更大的突破，以此调动社会资本投资的积极性。
For example, in the construction of intercity high-speed railway and inter-city rail transit, we can let the social capital have a bigger breakthrough in the shareholding ratio, thus mobilizing the enthusiasm of social capital investment.
历史上，“绍杭台”铁路建设曾由于允许民资持有更高的比例而吸引了民资的大量投资。
Historically, the construction of the "Shao Hang Tai" railway attracted large amounts of private investment by allowing a higher proportion of private capital to be held.
在这次新冠疫情中暴露出来的医疗和公共卫生投入不足问题中，除了公共卫生投入需要依靠政府加大财政投入外，医疗服务领域则可以通过进一步降低门槛，允许更多的民资和外资进入，增加医疗服务的供给。
Among the health and public-health underinvestment that has emerged from the new crown, the health-care sector could increase the supply of health services by lowering the barriers even further, allowing more private and foreign investment to enter.
引入的竞争将相应提高医疗服务质量，降低相应收费价格。
The introduction of competition will correspondingly improve the quality of medical services and reduce the corresponding fees.
国有企业混合所有制改革不仅仅是通过引入民资背景的战略投资促进国企经营机制的转化和经营效率的提高，还在于为民资进入传统管制和垄断行业发展提供了更加广阔的空间和舞台。
The reform of mixed ownership of state-owned enterprises not only promotes the transformation of the management mechanism of state-owned enterprises and the improvement of their operating efficiency through the introduction of strategic investment in the background of private capital.
如何做到民资激励相容，愿意参与混改，则依赖于国企混改实践中，公平公正和竞争中性的公司治理制度设计。
How to make private capital incentive compatible and willing to participate in reform depends on the design of fair and competition neutral corporate governance system in the practice of mixing state-owned enterprises.
能否使新引入的民资背景的战略投资，形成股权制衡的股权结构，并通过委派董事参与董事会的组织，形成保障自身投资权益的正常途径和制度安排成为关键。
Whether the newly introduced private capital background strategic investment, form the stock ownership structure of the stock balance, and through appointing directors to participate in the board of directors organization, the formation of their own investment rights and interests of the normal way and institutional arrangements become the key.
我们看到，上述三项政策的核心是通过结构性改革，建立竞争中性的经济发展政策，鼓励社会资本尽可能的深度参与，以此实现全体公民福利尽可能的全面提升。
We see that at the heart of these three policies is the achievement of the fullest possible well-being of all citizens through structural reforms, the establishment of competitive and neutral economic development policies and the encouragement of the widest possible participation of social capital.
因此疫后的中国一方面遭遇经济下行趋势中重建的严重挑战，另一方面则面临促使中国进行深层次结构性改革的重要契机。
As a result, China is confronted with serious challenges of economic downturn, on the one hand, and with deep structural reforms, on the other.
我们不应该再流连于饮鸩止渴式的短期经济刺激，而贻误推进中国进行深层次结构性改革的绝佳战机。
Instead of staying in the crossroad of short-term economic stimulus, we should procrastinate in advancing China's deep structural reforms.
通过对“新基建”项目可实施性和存在问题的探究和推敲可以看出，一些学者鼓吹的作为疫后重建经济政策重点的“新基建”，事实上还停留在概念中。
The "new infrastructure" advocated by some scholars as the focus of economic policy re-establishment after the epidemic is still in fact a concept through the exploration and analysis of the implementability and existing problems of the New Infrastructure Project.
（作者为中国人民大学金融学教授；编辑：王延春）▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
(The writer is a professor of finance at Renmin University of China; editor Wang Yanchun) Click here to see more details about the epidemic. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫后经济重建，“新基建”靠得住吗?。
After the epidemic economic reconstruction, the "new infrastructure" is reliable.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "疫后经济重建，“新基建”靠得住吗?";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "一些学者鼓吹的作为疫后重建经济政策重点的“新基建”,事实上还停留在概念中。
var msg _ desc = & quot; the "new infrastructure" advocated by some scholars as a focus of post-epidemic economic policy is in fact a concept.
我们不应该再流连于饮鸩止渴式的短期经济刺激，而贻误推进中国进行深层次结构性改革的绝佳战机";。
Instead of staying stuck in a plague of short-term economic stimulus, we should delay RTS & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
