王宏伟：如何应对灾难复杂化新趋势？。
Wang Hongwei: How to cope with the new trend of disaster complexity?
李皙寅 等。
Li Ming Yin, etc.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
当新冠疫情逐渐演变为复杂的综合性灾难，应急管理系统应对单一灾种的机制备受挑战。
As the new crown epidemic evolves into a complex and comprehensive disaster, the mechanism of emergency management system to deal with a single disaster is challenged.
面对新世纪以来灾难的复杂化、跨界化新趋势，成立常设的协调应对机构正当时文|《财经》记者 李皙寅 实习生 马文斌编辑|施智梁新冠肺炎疫情已蔓延至除南极洲外所有大洲，且势头还在持续。
In the face of the new trend of complex and transboundary disasters since the new century, a permanent coordinated response agency was set up. & nbsp; Caijing reporter Li Wen-ying intern Ma Wenbin has spread to all continents except Antarctica.
3月8日，据世界卫生组织发布新冠肺炎疫情报告称，全球确诊病例已达105586例，中国以外全球受新冠肺炎疫情影响的国家和地区数量达到101个。
On March 8, the World Health Organization (WHO) reported 105,586 confirmed cases worldwide, bringing to 101 the number of countries and regions outside China affected by the new crown pneumonia epidemic.
这场突发公共卫生事件，逐渐演变成包含经济、社会多方面的混合型、跨界型的灾害，使得原有应对单一灾种的应对制备受挑战，变成一场整个应急管理体系的“总体战”。
This public health emergency gradually evolved into a multi-economic and social multi-boundary disaster, so that the original response to a single disaster was challenged, into a "total war" of the entire emergency management system.
在这一背景下，中国国家层面成立了中央应对新冠肺炎疫情工作领导小组，各相关部委和各地方政府成立响应的工作组和指挥部，发挥了指挥中枢机构的作用。
Against this background, China has established the Central Leading Group for the Response to the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic at the national level, and various relevant ministries and local governments have set up response working groups and commands to act as command hubs.
2月14日，习近平总书记主持召开中央全面深化改革委员会第十二次会议，强调针对此次疫情暴露出来的短板和不足，抓紧补短板、堵漏洞、强弱项，完善重大疫情防控体制机制、健全国家公共卫生应急管理体系。
On February 14, President Xi Jinping chaired the 12th meeting of the Central Committee for Comprehensive and Deepening Reform, emphasizing the shortcomings and shortcomings revealed by the epidemic, strengthening the system of prevention and control of major epidemics, and improving the national public health emergency management system.
新冠肺炎引发的巨大社会危机，需要多部门、多元主体共同应对，需要由拥有更权威的机构来领导和指挥。
The huge social crisis caused by the New Crown Pneumonia requires a multi-sectoral, multi-agent response, which needs to be led and directed by a more authoritative body.
近日，中国人民大学公共管理学院国家安全研究中心主任、国家卫生应急体系建设指导专家王宏伟在接受《财经》记者专访时表示，现有的临时机构成员间相互磨合需要成本，不利于制度成熟和定型，而且事件结束后通常会就地解散，导致难以积累经验教训。
In a recent interview with Caijing, Wang Hongwei, director of the National Center for Security Studies at the School of Public Administration at Renmin University of China and an expert on how to build a national health emergency system, said in an interview with Caijing.
为此，王宏伟建议可考虑设立一个高规格、高层次的常设议事协调机构，层级高于各部委，设立在应急管理部内，由后者日常运营。
To that end, Wang suggested that consideration could be given to the establishment of a high-level, high-level permanent deliberative coordination body, above all ministries, within the Ministry of Emergency Management, which would operate on a day-to-day basis.
当面对各类重大突发事件时，作为领导指挥部，迅速协调相关部委开展高效处置行动，以有效维护公共安全和社会稳定。
When faced with major emergencies of all kinds, act as the leading command and promptly coordinate the relevant ministries to carry out efficient disposal operations in order to effectively maintain public safety and social stability.
在巨灾面前，各国应急管理的改革都在摸着石头过河，防灾、减灾，精准预判正是应急管理的核心重点。
In the face of great disasters, emergency management reform in all countries are feeling the stone, disaster prevention, disaster reduction, accurate forecasting is the core focus of emergency management.
中国应急管理系统的发展现状如何？面对复杂、跨界灾难，如何用灵活性破解“黑天鹅”困局？海外经验可有借鉴意义？如何建立有效的跨部门协调议事机构？王宏伟对相关问题给出了自己的看法。
What is the development status of China's emergency management system? How to use flexibility to solve the "black swan" dilemma in the face of complex, cross-border disasters? What lessons can be drawn from overseas experience? How to set up an effective inter-departmental deliberative body?
应急管理系统的演变《财经》：比起以往，这次疫情不单纯是突发公共卫生事件，更是一场复合型、跨界性强的社会危机，这对现有的应急管理体系提出了更高的要求？王宏伟：21世纪后，人类面对的风险变得与众不同。
The Evolution of Emergency Management SystemMore than ever before, the outbreak is not just a public health emergency, but a complex, cross-border social crisis that places higher demands on existing emergency management systemsWang Hongwei: After the 21st century, the risks facing humanity become different.
以前灾难种类都相对单一，契合对应部门的日常管理职能，再加上高层次的议事协调机构，比如国家减灾委、安全生产委员会，能够兜住风险。
Previously, the types of disasters were relatively homogeneous and fit into the day-to-day management functions of their counterparts, which, together with high-level deliberative coordinating bodies such as the National Disaster Reduction Committee and the Work Safety Commission, were able to hedge risks.
现在，灾害种类划分过细就会引发一些问题，因为灾害具有跨界性和复杂性、而且不确定性太强，像链条一样，需要综合的协调部门。
At present, over-classification of disaster types gives rise to problems, as disasters are transboundary, complex and uncertain, requiring, like chains, integrated coordination units.
像这次新冠肺炎就超越了卫生部门的应对能力，跨越了地理范围、部门界限，就不再是医药卫生一家的事。
This new crown pneumonia is beyond the capacity of the health sector, across geographical and sectoral boundaries, it is no longer a matter of medical hygiene alone.
《财经》：所以，2003年SARS后诞生了政府内应急管理办，作为协调机构？王宏伟：2003年，中国应急管理事业正式开启。
Caijing: So in 2003, the Emergency Management Office within the government was born as a coordinating agency? Wang Hongwei: In 2003, China's emergency management was officially launched.
从国务院到县级市人民政府都内设了应急管理办公室，作为办公厅的常设机构，简称应急办。
Emergency management offices have been set up within the people's governments at the county level from the State Council to the county level.
主要责任是应急值守、信息汇总、综合协调。
The main responsibilities are emergency duty, information gathering, comprehensive coordination.
但在2008年的南方冰雪灾害和汶川地震中，却体现出传统模式的不足：应急办作为国务院办公厅的一部分，架构级别太低。
But in the 2008 Southern Snow and Ice disaster and the Wenchuan earthquake, the traditional pattern was inadequate: the Office of Emergency Response as part of the Office of the State Council, the structure of the level is too low.
真面对突发事件，难以协调各个部门。
It is difficult to coordinate departments in the face of emergencies.
《财经》：作为国务院的内设机构，应急办只能协调、而不能指挥其他部委。
Caijing: As an internal organ of the State Council, the emergency response office can only coordinate, but not direct, other ministries and commissions.
王宏伟：是的，面对实权部门，国务院应急办就出现“小马拉大车”的问题。
Wang Hongwei: Yes, in the face of real power departments, the State Council's emergency response office on the issue of "small horse-drawn carts."
他站位很高，但级别太低。
He stands high, but his rank is too low.
而且各级政府间应急办之间也不成系统，国务院应急办对地方应急办缺乏统筹能力。
There is also a lack of coherence between the different levels of intergovernmental response offices, and the Office of Emergency Response of the State Council lacks an integrated capacity for local emergency response offices.
时间一长，应急办的职能内卷，演变成为辅助国务院领导的参谋，弱化了原有的协调统筹职能。
Over time, the functions of the Emergency Response Office evolved into a staff officer to support the leadership of the State Council, weakening the original coordinating and coordinating functions.
因此，长期来看，应急管理体系还是缺少一个层次高、有权威，超职能部门的常设的行政机构。
Therefore, in the long run, the emergency management system still lacks a high-level, authoritative, super-functional permanent administrative structure.
这就为后续改革埋下了伏笔。
This has set the stage for subsequent reforms.
《财经》：2018年，专业化处置灾害的应急管理部诞生了，原有国家减灾委、应急办的职能都并入其中。
Caijing: In 2018, the professional emergency management department was established, and the functions of the former National Disaster Reduction Committee and the Emergency Response Office were integrated into it.
作为国务院下的一级部门，他能够协调各部委一起应对灾害吗？王宏伟：当初，我国以统一领导，权责匹配，高效权威的方针，构建了新的应急管理体系，并组建了全新的应急管理部，负责主要自然灾害和事故灾难应对，这都是常发灾害。
Wang Hongwei: At the beginning, our country took a unified leadership, responsibility matching, efficient and authoritative approach, set up a new emergency management system and set up a new emergency management department to deal with major natural disasters and accidental disasters, which are common disasters.
这是应急管理改革方面的巨大进步，把应急办时代没有落地的制度和政策做扎实了。
This is a huge improvement in emergency management reform, the emergency response era has not landed on the system and policy to do a solid.
具体来看，最近两年，全国自然灾害的伤亡情况、倒塌房屋的数量和经济损失占GDP的比重都在下降，在安全生产方面形势总体稳定，事故数量、伤亡人数均明显下降。
In particular, over the past two years, the number of casualties, the number of collapsed homes and the economic losses as a share of GDP have all been decreasing, and the overall situation in terms of production safety has been stable, with a marked decrease in the number of accidents and the number of casualties.
《财经》：原本应急办应对突发公共卫生事件的职能，为何没有一并纳入应急管理部？王宏伟：相比自然灾害和事故灾难，大规模疫情是小概率事件。
Caijing: Why wasn't the emergency response office included in the Department of Emergency Management? Wang Hongwei: Compared with natural disasters and accident disasters, large-scale epidemic is a small probability event.
应对突发公共卫生事件的职能都集中于卫生部门，前期的风险评估、风险监测依托于疾控中心，后期救治又依托医院。
The functions of responding to public health emergencies are concentrated in the health sector. The risk assessment and risk monitoring in the early stage depend on the CDC, and the later treatment depends on the hospital.
没有将突发公共卫生事件纳入应急管理部，是为了避免跨部门协调不力。
Public health emergencies were not integrated into the Department of Emergency Management in order to avoid weak cross-sectoral coordination.
应对灾难应保持灵活性《财经》：有专家认为，突发公共卫生事件的预案责任主体和处置细则不够明确。
Be flexible in dealing with disasters Some experts believe that the subject and rules of handling public health emergencies are not clear enough.
相比自然灾害的预案，明显准备不足。
Compared to the natural disaster plan, obviously not prepared enough.
对此，您怎么看？王宏伟：突发公共卫生事件和自然灾害事件不一样。
What do you think of this? Wang Hongwei: Public health emergencies are different from natural disasters.
自然灾害是客观现实，影响较好研判。
Natural disaster is an objective reality and has a good impact on judgement.
但突发公共卫生事件则不同，很难研判、甚至难以识别。
But public health emergencies are different, difficult to judge, and even difficult to identify.
何时启动预案？这是最困难的决策。
When to start the plan? This is the most difficult decision.
这背后涉及信息的公开发布。
This is behind the public release of information.
有人把这事儿想得很简单，觉得公开透明就好。
Some people think of it very simply and think it would be nice to be open and transparent.
但我们不能事后诸葛亮，用已知去要求未知时的决策。
But we cannot be wise after the fact and use the known to ask for decisions when the unknown is unknown.
应对自然灾害宣传教育，公众应对的知识普及比较到位，而传染病由于害怕公众恐怕，没有大规模知识普及。
Awareness of natural disasters should be addressed and the public's knowledge of how to deal with them is fairly well developed, while infectious diseases do not have mass access to knowledge because of fear of the public.
一旦研判过度，造成的社会恐慌和经济、社会影响程度，不会亚于疫情真实发生。
Once overextended, the degree of social panic and economic and social impact may not be less in demand than the actual occurrence of the epidemic.
为此，在及时和谨慎两个区间内，决策者需要有所权衡。
To do this, policymakers need to weigh up between timeliness and prudence.
《财经》：突发公共卫生事件的预案准备充分吗？王宏伟：卫生部门一直都有应急办，职责是制定预案，组织医院演练。
Caijing: Are you ready for a public health emergency? Wang Hongwei: The health department has always had an emergency department, which is responsible for making plans and organizing hospital drills.
去年，湖北武汉为了迎接军运会，就演练了针对输入型中东呼吸综合征的应急预案。
Last year, Wuhan, Hubei province, rehearsed an emergency plan for an imported Middle East respiratory syndrome in preparation for the Games.
但各级卫生部门的预案都是小规模的、常规性的。
However, plans at all levels of the health sector are small-scale and routine.
参与演练的部门，普遍局限于卫生系统内的单位，而非跨部门协调通信、交通、公安、应急等力量共同参与打“总体战”，缺乏应对大规模疫情的思想准备，演练站位不够高、场景设计不够复杂。
The sectors involved in the exercise are generally confined to units within the health system, rather than cross-sectoral coordination of communication, transportation, public security, emergency response and other forces to participate in a "general war," lack of ideological preparedness to deal with large-scale outbreaks of disease, and lack of high-level rehearsal stations and complex scenario design.
这是用僵化的过时机制剪裁复杂的当下现实。
This is tailoring complex present-day realities to rigid, outdated mechanisms.
《传染病防治法》穷尽列举了各类传染病，缺乏弹性。
The Communicable Diseases Act contains an exhaustive list of infectious diseases and lacks flexibility.
新冠肺炎疫情只有被卫健委宣布为一类传染病按甲类传染病管理，才能采取强制隔离措施。
Only when the new crown pneumonia is declared as a Class A infectious disease by the health care committee can the compulsory isolation measures be taken.
《财经》：面对灾难若用机械化、穷举的方式制定预案，面对黑天鹅的时候就会失灵，那就是说要保持一定的灵活性？王宏伟：是的。
Caijing: If you plan ahead mechanically and exhaustively in the face of disaster, you will fail in the face of black swans.
所以应急管理的思维要创新，从经验性转变为前瞻性思维。
Therefore, emergency management thinking should be innovative, from empirical to forward-looking thinking.
否则，反思就只能是撞击——反射式的。
Otherwise, introspection can only be impactful -- reflexive.
传统应急预案都是对既有经验的总结。
The traditional emergency plan is a summary of the existing experience.
有了N个预案、设想了N种情况，下次突发事件属于N+1种的“黑天鹅”。
With N plans, the scenario of N, the next emergency belongs to the N + 1 "black swan."
“9·11”事件后，美国反思应对不力后得出结论：缺少想象力。
In the aftermath of September 11, 2001, the US, reflecting on its inadequate response, concluded that it lacked imagination.
对今天突发事件的新特点认知不清晰，一味强调细化应急预案，反倒会强化应急体系的纤维性，造成灵活性、适应性、响应性的进一步流失，进而影响了应急能力的提升。
It is not clear to recognize the new characteristics of the emergency today, and the emphasis on refining the emergency plan will only strengthen the fiber nature of the emergency system, resulting in further loss of flexibility, adaptability and responsiveness, which in turn affects the ability to respond to emergencies.
《财经》：灵活性，就代表更大、更难的决策压力，这需要更多的信息、更专业的应急管理技能。
Caijing: Flexibility means greater and more difficult decision-making pressure, which requires more information and more professional emergency management skills.
王宏伟：现在国内发生四大类突发事件时，倚重于应急管理部、公安部和国家卫健委。
Wang Hongwei: Four kinds of emergencies occurred in China, relying on the Ministry of Emergency Management, the Ministry of Public Security and the National Health Commission.
若是灾害超越上述部门应对能力，主管部门很难启动预案中的联防联控机制。
If a disaster exceeds the response capacity of the above-mentioned departments, it is difficult for the competent authorities to activate the planned joint control mechanism.
这暴露出，我们没有常态化高效、权威的顶层协调机构的弱点。
This exposes the weakness of a top-level coordinating body that is normalized as efficient and authoritative.
《财经》：如何看待这次湖北及武汉当地的应急响应能力？王宏伟：明显是情况研判不足，造成局部性突发公共卫生事件迅速放大为全国性危机，由公共卫生领域危机变成全面危机。
"Caijing": What do you think of the local emergency response capacity in Hubei and Wuhan? Wang Hongwei: Obviously, the situation is inadequate, resulting in local public health emergencies rapidly magnifying into a national crisis, and from a public health crisis into a full-scale crisis.
本来在制度上，是有窗口期、黄金期是可以控制住的。
Originally in the system, there is a window period, the golden period can be controlled.
但当地官员因为没有意识到危机的到来，并没有采取明显的临时性减缓措施，“外松内不紧”。
But local officials, unaware of the crisis, did not take significant temporary relief measures, "loose inside the Matsushita."
应急预案在一些部门和地方仅仅是“纸上画画，墙上挂挂”，不能发挥未雨绸缪、有备无患的作用。
The emergency plan in some departments and places is only "on paper, hanging on the wall", can not play a proactive role in preparation.
武汉市此次应对就反映了这一问题。
Wuhan city this time to respond to reflect this problem.
疫情不太严重的一些省市启动了一级响应，而武汉还停留在二级响应。
Some provinces and municipalities where the epidemic is less severe have launched a first-level response, while Wuhan remains a secondary response.
至于医护人员、床位、物资短缺，更让武汉的疫情应对忙乱不堪、毫无章法。
As for the shortage of medical staff, beds and supplies, Wuhan to deal with the epidemic situation in a chaotic, haphazard.
《财经》：您是指应急响应机制没有及时拉响警报？王宏伟：具体的原因需要调查。
Caijing: You mean the emergency response mechanism didn't sound the alarm in time? Wang Hongwei: The specific reason needs to be investigated.
但明显，当地官员缺乏危机意识和风险感知的能力。
But it is clear that local officials lack a sense of crisis and risk perception.
另外，出事儿缺乏担责精神，造成事件升级。
In addition, the lack of accountability for the incident resulted in an escalation.
“宁可十防九空，也不可万一失防。
"It is better to be on guard than to lose it.
”这是2005年8月，时任浙江省省委书记的习近平在防御麦莎台风时的指导思想。
In August 2005, Xi Jinping, then the provincial secretary of Zhejiang Province, was guiding his defense against Typhoon Martha.
这背后涉及到干部的责任感和防范、化解重大风险的底线思维。
This involves the sense of responsibility of cadres and the bottom line of thinking to prevent and defuse major risks.
回归头来看看，封城前已经有种种迹象表现传染病流行。
Back in front of the city, there were signs of epidemics.
亟待建立综合议事协调机构《财经》：疫情发生后，党中央、国务院均成立了应对疫情的工作领导小组、启动了联防联控机制，这本身是临时性机构，您的意思是应该让这一机构固化下来？王宏伟：应该继续深化推动应急管理改革。
After the outbreak of the epidemic, both the CPC Central Committee and the State Council established the Leading Group to Address the Epidemic Disease and launched the Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism (JCMB), which is a temporary institution in itself.
比如在中央设立高层次议事协调机构，统筹包括自然灾害、事故灾难、公共卫生这三大类突发事件，办公室常设在应急管理部内，由后者日常维护。
For example, the central government has set up a high-level deliberation and coordination organ to coordinate three major emergencies, including natural disasters, accidents and public health.
当然，为了充分发挥应急管理部门的综合优势和其他部门的专业优势。
Of course, in order to make full use of the comprehensive advantages of emergency management departments and other departments of professional advantages.
像一般的疫情，由卫生部门自行应对即可，但涉及外部协调工作的，都可以有该办公室来综合协调。
In the case of a generalized epidemic, the health sector can respond on its own, but where external coordination is involved, it can be integrated and coordinated by the Office.
当面临重大疫情，作为指挥协调的办公室，可以督促卫生部门防扩散，工信部门准备动员生产，发改委、粮食与物资储备局储备应急物资，协助领导进行指挥。
When faced with a major epidemic, as a command and coordination office, can urge the health sector to non-proliferation, industrial and communications departments are ready to mobilize production, the NDRC, the Food and Materials Reserve Bureau reserve emergency supplies, to help leadership of the command.
《财经》：这一模式与传统国务院应急管理办的显著区别是？王宏伟：作为常设机构，新议事协调机构应该有普遍高于各部委的权威性。
Wang Hongwei: As a permanent institution, the new deliberative coordinating body should have overall authority over all the ministries and commissions.
做好应对预案，并做好应急准备活动。
Prepare the response plan and make the emergency preparedness activities.
《财经》：日常由应急管理部维护，那发生突发事件由谁牵头呢？王宏伟：应急管理部有应急处置的经验，应该由他牵头。
Caijing: It is maintained by the emergency management department on a daily basis, who will take the lead in case of emergencyWang Hongwei: The emergency management department has experience in emergency response and should take the lead.
从这次疫情来看， 应急管理部虽然主动、积极作为，无论是调集物资、去方舱医院排查消防隐患、确保复工，还是调集直升机转运物资，几乎把职能想遍了，但还是扮演着辅助性的角色。
In the light of the epidemic, the Department of Emergency Management, while proactive and proactive, has played a supporting role in almost every aspect of its functions, whether it be mobilizing supplies, going to the Fangcao Hospital to detect potential fire hazards, ensuring resumption of work or mobilizing supplies for helicopter transshipment.
事实上，在指挥、协调、调度当中，他应该扮演更大的角色。
In fact, he should play a bigger role in command, coordination, and scheduling.
《财经》：海外经验能否有借鉴意义？比如美国的应急管理署。
Caijing: Can overseas experience be useful? For example, the U. S. Emergency Management Agency.
王宏伟：国情不同，借鉴有限，各国应急管理的改革都是摸着石头过河。
Wang Hongwei: The national conditions are different, learning from the limited, emergency management reform is to feel the stone across the river.
比如，伴随美国联邦应急管理署并入国土安全部，反而削弱了防灾减灾的能力。
For example, the incorporation of the United States Federal Emergency Management Agency into the Department of Homeland Security has reduced disaster prevention and mitigation capacity.
在卡特琳娜飓风中，美国应急管理问题频现，彼时就曾有声音建议，将美国联邦应急管理署再次独立出来。
During Hurricane Katrina, America's emergency management problems flared up, when there were voices suggesting that the US Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) should again be independent.
最后，则是设定了新的机制，即美国联邦应急管理署发现灾情后，可以直报给国土安全部领导，减少沟通层级。
Finally, a new mechanism has been devised whereby the United States Federal Emergency Management Agency can report a disaster directly to the Department of Homeland Security to reduce the level of communication.
美国、日本做得早，在技术层面上我们能借鉴。
The United States, Japan to do early, in the technical level we can learn from.
但在巨灾面前，我们有制度优势，比如这次应对疫情，我们能迅速调集军队、医生，迅速建立野战医院，这种强大资源动力和整合能力极强，我们未来强化方向应该是风险防范和应急准备。
But in the face of a major disaster, we have institutional advantages, such as this response, we can quickly mobilize troops, doctors, and quickly establish a field hospital, a strong resource drive and integration, and our future direction should be risk prevention and emergency preparedness.
《财经》：也就是说，要在前期防灾、减灾上多下功夫，还要在初期就感知到灾难。
Caijing: In other words, we should make more efforts in disaster prevention and reduction in the early stages, and we should also be aware of disasters at an early stage.
王宏伟：对，你不要说等到变成大事之后，你再体现优势，老百姓其实看到这个成本也是非常高的，对吗？整个经济社会的运行轨道都变了。
Wang Hongwei: Yes, you don't have to wait until it turns out to be a big event and then you show your advantage. People actually see that the cost is very high, right?
未来需要精准救援，更要预警发布、恢复重建、监管执法要精准。
Precision rescue is needed in the future, and early warning, reconstruction and law enforcement should be accurate.
减少虚警、空警，提高预警的权威性、针对性，减少不必要的扰民；恢复重建的精准可以避免“大水漫灌”、聚焦弱势群体的利益、体现公平正义原则，把好钢用在刀刃上；监管执法的精准可以统筹安全与发展、避免“一人得病，全家吃药”的弊病。
Restoring the accuracy of reconstruction can avoid "flood irrigation," focus on the interests of the disadvantaged, embody the principle of fairness and justice, and put good use of steel on the blade. Precise law enforcement can balance security and development and avoid the malady of "one person gets sick and the whole family takes medicine."
《财经》：这一次民间力量的自救互救力量十分明显，但也能发现有时候他们有点“报国无门”，难以找到专门的政府对口部门。
Caijing: This time, the self-help force of the civilian forces is very obvious, but can also find that sometimes they have a little "no way to the country," it is difficult to find dedicated government counterparts.
此前，民政部有救灾救济司，未来是不是也该有个专门的端口协调民间力量，统筹物资、专业志愿者。
Previously, the Ministry of Civil Affairs has a disaster relief department, whether the future should also have a special port to coordinate civilian forces, materials, professional volunteers.
王宏伟：这个问题也很重要。
Wang Hongwei: This question is also very important.
过去民政部救灾救济司负责自然灾害的捐赠管理，如今划归到了应急管理部。
The Department of Disaster Relief of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, formerly responsible for the management of donations for natural disasters, was now under the Ministry of Emergency Management.
应急管理部成立后，搞过民间应急力量的“大比武”，但相关平台机制都是面向自然灾害或安全生产事故的，在这次公共卫生事件面前，就出现了权责的空白期。
Since the establishment of the Ministry of Emergency Management, China has engaged in a civil emergency response force, but the relevant platform mechanism is oriented to natural disasters or work safety accidents, in the face of this public health event, there is a gap between responsibilities.
归根结底，还是需要一个高层次的议事协调机构，这样才能让现有各种力量师出有名。
In the final analysis, a high-level deliberative coordinating body is needed in order for the existing forces to become known.
就物资来说，大规模突发事件发生后需求与供给之间也可能产生结构性、阶段性缺口，必须加强建立医疗物资等战略储备体系。
In terms of materials, the gap between demand and supply after large-scale emergencies may be structural and phased, and the establishment of strategic reserve systems such as medical supplies must be strengthened.
另外，我国应急捐赠管理体系有待于进一步完善，要对统一接受并使用捐赠的做法进行反思和评估，建立统一与分散相结合的机制，具体做法是：社会自行对接，政府调剂余缺。
In addition, China's emergency donation management system needs to be further improved, to unified acceptance and use of donations for reflection and evaluation, and to establish a unified and decentralized combination of mechanisms, by: social docking, the Government adjust the remaining gap.
汲取新冠肺炎疫情应对的教训。
Lessons learned from the response to the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic.
应急物资保障是否有力，这要取决于三个因素：一是储备品类、规模、结构的合理性；二是物资动员生产能力；三是采购供应的可能性。
Whether the supply of emergency supplies is strong depends on three factors: first, the rationality of the type, scale and structure of the reserves; secondly, the production capacity of material mobilization; and thirdly, the possibility of purchasing supply.
但是，物资保障本身就是一个复杂的问题，加之防疫与救灾物资的储备分属于不同的部门管理、储备要求各异，如何进行有效的整合是一个需要深入探索的问题。
However, material security itself is a complex issue, and with different sectoral management and reserve requirements for epidemic prevention and relief materials, effective integration is an issue that needs to be further explored.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
王宏伟：如何应对灾难复杂化新趋势？。
Wang Hongwei: How to cope with the new trend of disaster complexity?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "王宏伟：如何应对灾难复杂化新趋势？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Wang Hongwei: How to deal with new trends in disaster sophistication?;
var msg_desc = "当新冠疫情逐渐演变为复杂的综合性灾难，应急管理系统应对单一灾种的机制备受挑战。
var msg _ desc = & quot; when the new crown epidemic evolved into a complex, complex disaster, the emergency management system's response to a single disaster was challenged.
面对新世纪以来灾难的复杂化、跨界化新趋势，成立常设的协调应对机构正当时";。
; At the time,; when a permanent coordinated response agency was set up in response to the new complex and transboundary trend of disasters since the new century.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
