“群体免疫”之前世今生。
"Group immunization" before the present life.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
在本周四召开的记者招待会上，英国首相鲍里斯·约翰逊宣布了英国政府的防疫政策，迅速把“群体免疫”这个概念送上了热搜。
At a news conference on Thursday, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced the British government's vaccination policy, quickly introducing the concept of "mass immunization."
这个词到底是什么意思？它和我们的防疫政策有何不同？这就要从传染病的一些基本特征开始说起。
What does this word mean? How does it differ from our vaccination policy? It begins with some basic features of infectious disease.
文 | 袁越自然状态下的传染病一个人得了某种急性传染病，多数情况下只有两种结局：死亡或者免疫。
Yuan Yuyue's natural infectious disease A person with an acute infectious disease has in most cases only two outcomes: death or immunity.
前者很好理解，后者指的是被感染者的免疫系统“认识”了这个病原体，下次再遇到它的话就不会中招了。
The former is easy to understand, the latter refers to the infected person's immune system "know" the pathogen, the next time it encountered it would not be admitted.
只有在少数情况下，急性传染病才会转变成慢性传染病，比如HIV病毒反转录成DNA之后整合进了宿主的基因组之中，或者乙肝病毒进入肝细胞后转变成“共价闭合环状DNA”（cccDNA），躲进了宿主的细胞核之中。
Only in a few cases do acute infectious diseases turn into chronic infectious diseases, such as HIV retroactively transcribed into DNA and integrated into the host's genome, or when hepatitis B virus enters a liver cell and turns into a "covalent closed-loop DNA" (cccDNA), hiding in the host's nucleus.
这两种情况都比较罕见，本文不再讨论。
Both situations are relatively rare and are not discussed in this paper.
死亡和免疫这两种结局都不是感染之后立刻就发生的，而是需要一段时间。
Both the death and immunization outcomes do not occur immediately after infection, but take time.
在此期间这个被感染的人就变成了传染源，负责帮助病原体找到下一个宿主。
During this time, the infected person becomes the source of infection, helping the pathogen find its next host.
一个感染者传染其他人的能力可以用“基本传染数”（R0）来衡量，如果R0值大于1的话，只要假以时日，这个病一定会传遍整个群体。
An infected person's ability to transmit to others can be measured by a "basic infection" (R0), and if the R0 is greater than 1, the disease is bound to spread throughout the community over time.
想象一个封闭的小规模人类社群，当某个病原体传遍所有人之后，它就只剩下一条路可走了，那就是灭绝。
Imagine a small, closed human community, and when a pathogen spreads to all, there is only one way to go, and that is extinction.
事实上，这就是原始社会阶段绝大多数人类病原体的终极命运，很可怜的。
In fact, this is the ultimate fate of the vast majority of human pathogens in primitive society, very poor.
当人口数量急剧膨胀，地球上终于出现了城市之后，情况发生了变化。
This changed when the population swelled and cities finally appeared on the planet.
因为人口数量大，城市里每时每刻都有婴儿出生，这就相当于为病原体提供了源源不断的新宿主，病原体们终于看到了永生的希望。
With so many people and so many babies born every minute of the day in the city, the equivalent of a steady stream of new hosts for pathogens, who are finally seeing hope for eternity.
在这种情况下，每一种病原体的结局取决于它本身的R0值，以及这个封闭社区的人口数量。
In this case, the outcome of each pathogen depends on its own R0 value and the population of the closed community.
根据计算，即使对于R0值高达12-18的麻疹来说，如果某个封闭社区的人口总数小于50万的话，它也是不能永久存活下去的。
It has been calculated that even measles with a R0 value of up to 12-18 cannot survive permanently if the population of a closed community is less than 500,000.
可惜的是，随着城市规模的扩张，以及人类迁徙路线的不断扩展，绝大多数人类传染病都能很容易地找到新宿主，从而持续地在人类群体当中传播，这就是现代医学诞生之前人类的生存状况。
Unfortunately, as cities expand and human migration routes expand, the vast majority of human infectious diseases can easily find new hosts and thus continue to spread among human populations, a condition of human existence prior to the birth of modern medicine.
那时的人类还不是微生物的主人，双方维持着一种相互斗争&互相利用的平等关系。
Humans were not yet the owners of microorganisms, and the two sides maintained an equal relationship that had been fought against and exploited by each other.
一方面，病原体在不断感染人类之后变得越来越温和。
On the one hand, pathogens become more benign as they infect humans.
另一方面，人体免疫系统则在各种病原体的选择压力之下变得越来越强，感染之后小病一场随即获得终身免疫的概率持续增加，这就是为什么人类这个物种能够活到今天的原因。
On the other hand, the body's immune system is becoming stronger under the selective pressure of pathogens, and the probability of a life-long immunity to minor illnesses immediately after infection continues to increase, which is why the human species has survived to this day.
不过，这一自然过程必然伴随着老弱病残的死亡和淘汰。
However, this natural process must be accompanied by the death and elimination of the infirm.
对于任何一种野生动物群体来说，这都不是事儿。
This is nothing to any wildlife population.
问题在于，人类逐渐进化出了高级智慧，有了专属于人类的情感模式和道德准则，尤其是人道主义精神的出现，彻底改变了人类看待自然选择的态度。
The problem is that human beings have gradually evolved advanced wisdom, with the emergence of emotional models and moral norms that belong exclusively to humankind, in particular humanism, which has radically changed the way in which human beings view natural choices.
疫苗的出现，就是这一态度转变的直接结果。
The advent of vaccines is a direct result of this change in attitude.
疫苗与群体免疫18世纪时，英国出了个名叫爱德华·詹纳（Edward Jenner）的医生，发明了牛痘疫苗，彻底改变了人和病毒之间的关系。
Vaccines and Group Immunization In the eighteenth century, a British doctor, Edward Jenner, invented the vaccine for chickenpox, revolutionizing the relationship between humans and viruses.
疫苗本质上就是一种灭活（或者减活）的病毒，通过人为的方式让其迅速在人群当中扩散，使得这个群体内的大多数人都迅速获得了免疫力，从而摆脱了该病毒对于人类的“自然”选择作用。
Vaccines are essentially inactivated (or deactivated) viruses that spread through the population in an artificial way, allowing most people in the group to quickly acquire immunity, thus freeing themselves from the virus's "natural" selection of humans.
那么，对于一个封闭社区来说，到底需要让多少人获得免疫力才能阻止该病毒的继续扩散呢？这就需要数学家来帮忙了。
So how many people does it take for a closed community to have immunity to stop the virus from spreading? It takes mathematicians to help.
数学家们很快推导出了一个算法，只要知道了某种人类病毒的R0值，就可以计算出让它停止传播所需的最低免疫率。
Mathematicians were quick to deduce an algorithm that, once they knew the R0 value of a human virus, could calculate the minimum immunization rate needed to stop it from spreading.
通常情况下，一个病毒的R0值越高，所需的最低免疫率就越高。
In general, the higher the R0 value of a virus, the higher the required minimum immunization rate.
比如上文提到的麻疹，最低免疫率大约为95%，即只有当95%的人都已接种了疫苗之后，这个病才能被防住。
In the case of measles, for example, the minimum immunization rate is about 95 per cent, which means that only after 95 per cent of the population has been vaccinated can the disease be prevented.
上面这个计算绝不仅仅是个数学游戏，它是有实际用途的。
The above calculation is not just a mathematical game; it is of practical use.
要知道，疫苗不是对每个人都有用的。
You know, vaccines are not for everyone.
对于那些刚出生的婴儿、免疫力低下的老弱病残，以及因为其他原因导致其无法获得抗体的人群（比如对疫苗过敏）来说，疫苗是起不到保护作用的。
Vaccines do not protect newborns, the sick and the elderly who have low immunity, and people who otherwise have no access to antibodies, such as vaccines.
既然如此，我们将如何保护这些人呢？答案就是“群体免疫”（Community Immunity）。
So how do we protect these people? The answer is "community immunity."
这个概念本质上就是上文提到的那个“最低免疫率”，它原本只是一个流行病学研究领域的学术概念，但当疫苗被广泛应用于抗击大规模传染病之后，这个概念获得了新生。
The concept, essentially the "minimum immunization rate," was originally an academic concept in the field of epidemiology, but was revived when vaccines were widely used to combat large-scale infectious diseases.
群体免疫有个更流行的英文名称，按字面翻译的话叫做“牛群免疫”（Herd Immunity）。
Group immunization has a more popular English name, literally referred to as "herd immunity."
最先发明这个词的人显然把人类和牲畜混为一谈了，两者对于流行病学研究来说也确实无甚分别。
The first inventors of the term apparently confused humans with livestock, and the two did not really make much difference in epidemiological studies.
但是，这个概念后来的走红恰恰证明人类和牛群是不一样的，因为牛群不需要担心老弱病残，人类则正好相反。
But the subsequent popularity of the concept proved that humans and cattle are not the same, because cattle do not have to worry about the sick and the old, and humans do the opposite.
人道主义决定了我们不会主动放弃保护任何人，哪怕他是个没什么“遗传价值”的老弱病残。
Humanitarianism dictates that we do not voluntarily give up protecting anyone, even if he is a frail old man with little "genetic value."
群体免疫就是保护这些人的唯一手段，它要求我们每个人都做出一点点牺牲，以换取老弱病残们的安全。
Group immunization is the only way to protect these people, it requires each of us to make a little sacrifice in exchange for the safety of the elderly, the sick and the infirm.
就像前文所说的，疫苗是一种灭活（或者减活）的病毒，本质上是存在一定风险的。
As mentioned earlier, vaccines are inactivated (or inactivated) viruses that are inherently risky.
我们之所以称疫苗是个好东西，只是因为疫苗的好处远大于风险，并不是因为疫苗只有好处没有坏处。
The reason we call a vaccine a good thing is that the benefits far outweigh the risks, not because the vaccine is only good and not bad.
比如，2000年以后全世界一共使用了超过100亿剂量的减活小儿麻痹症疫苗，算起来相当于防止了600万小儿麻痹症病例，虽然在此过程中造成了580名儿童得病，但整体算下来还是划算的，这才是建立在科学基础上的真正的人道主义。
For example, since 2000, more than 10 billion doses of inactivated polio vaccine have been used worldwide, which is equivalent to preventing 6 million polio cases, and while 580 children have been sick in the process, it is cost-effective to count as a whole, which is a true humanitarianism based on science.
小儿麻痹症疫苗的广泛使用，让少数因故打不了疫苗的人获得了保护，这就是群体免疫的价值所在。
The widespread use of polio vaccines has protected a small number of people who could not afford them, which is the value of group immunization.
不过，因为疫苗毕竟有那么一点点危险，有些“聪明”的家长便想出了各种理由拒绝给自己的孩子打疫苗。
But because vaccines are a little dangerous, some "smart" parents have come up with various reasons to refuse to vaccinate their children.
这么做对他的孩子来说问题不大，但如果这样的家长越来越多的话，群体免疫就无法维持下去了，这就是为什么公共卫生领域的群体免疫计划是必须强制执行的，这是典型的国家行为。
This is not a big problem for his children, but with more and more such parents, mass immunization cannot be sustained, which is why mass immunization programs in public health are mandatory and typical of state behavior.
与此同时，国家必须为疫苗的质量担保，出了事必须全额赔偿，这是国家必须承担的责任。
At the same time, the State must guarantee the quality of vaccines and must pay full compensation if something goes wrong, which is the responsibility of the State.
总之，群体免疫的核心思想就是保护老弱病残。
In short, the core idea of group immunization is to protect the elderly, infirm.
作为一名身体健康的成年人，你必须意识到你自己不但有可能成为一名传染病的受害者，更有可能成为一名传染病的传播者，后者才是你所能扮演的最危险的角色。
As a healthy adult, you must realize that you are not only at risk of becoming a victim of an infectious disease, but also of becoming a communicator of infectious diseases, the latter being the most dangerous role you can play.
群体免疫与新冠病毒那么，群体免疫能否帮助我们对抗新冠疫情呢？答案取决于你所获得的信息到底是什么。
Group immunization versus the new crown virus So, can mass immunization help us fight the new crown? The answer depends on what information you get.
新冠病毒是一种全新的病原体，我们对这种病毒的了解每时每刻都在更新，相应的防疫政策也会随之改变。
The New Crown Virus is a new pathogen. Our knowledge of the virus is constantly being updated and the corresponding vaccination policy will be changed.
这是很常见的情况，没必要大惊小怪，更不必诉诸阴谋论。
This is a common situation, and there is no need to make a fuss, let alone resort to conspiracy theories.
比如，英国政府的防疫策略在首相约翰逊发表了那次关于“群体免疫”的讲话一天之后就又发生了改变，宣布将从下周开始禁止大规模集会，这大概是因为很多英国民间组织已经在自发地这么做了。
For example, the British government's vaccination strategy changed a day after Prime Minister Johnson delivered his speech on "mass immunization," announcing a ban on mass rallies starting next week, presumably because many British civil-society organizations are already doing so spontaneously.
周四记者会上站在鲍里斯身边的有两人，分别是英国政府首席科学顾问帕特里克·瓦兰斯爵士（Sir Patrick Vallance），以及英国政府首席医学顾问克里斯·威提（Chris Whitty）博士。
Standing beside Boris at a news conference on Thursday were two men, Sir Patrick Vallance, chief scientific adviser to the British government, and Dr Chris Whitty, chief medical adviser to the British government.
此举的意思大概是说，英国政府的防疫政策绝不是鲍里斯一个人拍脑门想出来的，而是基于现有的病毒学知识而做出的科学调整。
The implication is probably that the British government's vaccination policy was not conceived of by Boris alone, but by a scientific adjustment based on existing virological knowledge.
那么，英国科学家们有哪些和别人不一样的发现呢？第一，根据英国科学家的估算，英国已经有5000-10000名感染者了。
What, then, do British scientists find to be different? First, British scientists estimate that there are already between 5,000 and 10,000 infected people in the UK.
这个数字之所以远高于已公布的确诊病例数，只是因为检测技术跟不上而已。
This figure is much higher than the number of confirmed cases that have been declared simply because detection techniques have not kept pace.
第二，英国科学家相信这个病的主要受害者是老年人，以及患有其他严重慢性疾病的中老年患者。
Second, British scientists believe that the main victims of the disease are the elderly, as well as the elderly suffering from other serious and chronic diseases.
对于广大身体健康的中青年人来说，这个病的致死率不到1%，处于可以接受的范围之内。
For the vast majority of healthy young and middle-aged people, the fatality rate is less than 1 per cent, which is within acceptable limits.
第三，英国科学家相信这个病毒的传播力远大于非典，大多数传染者都是没有症状或者症状轻微的前期感染者，这就给防控带来了巨大的困难。
Third, British scientists believe the virus is spreading far more effectively than SARS, and that most infectious agents are pre-infected people with no symptoms or mild symptoms, which makes prevention and control extremely difficult.
这3项新发现和大部分中国人对于新冠疫情的判断似乎存在较大差距，尤其是第一条，和国内不断下降的新增确诊病例存在巨大的反差。
There appears to be a big gap between the three findings and most Chinese estimates of the new crown, especially the first, and the country's declining number of newly diagnosed cases.
不过，考虑到国外有如此之多的名人和政治家中招，英国科学家的这个悲观预测似乎是有些道理的。
But, given so many celebrities and politicians abroad, there seems to be some truth to the gloomy forecast.
正因为如此，英国科学家们给出了和我们完全相反的防控建议。
That is why British scientists have come up with proposals for control that are the exact opposite of ours.
比如，他们认为既然已经防不住了，那就不如干脆改变策略，不再把工作重点放在防止疫情扩散上，而是转入下一阶段，即主要以减少损失为主，耐心等待以下两件事的发生：第一，期待专门针对新冠的特效药或者疫苗能够尽快研制出来；第二，期待有越来越多的身体健康的中青年人能够通过感染新冠病毒而产生免疫力，从而建立起一道群体免疫屏障，保护那些最危险的老弱病残。
They believe, for example, that, now that they can no longer be prevented, it would be better to shift from focusing on preventing the spread of the epidemic to the next phase, mainly focusing on loss reduction and patiently waiting for the next two things to happen: first, anticipating that more healthy young and middle-aged people will develop immunity by contracting the new crown virus.
有意思的是，包括德国在内的不少西欧和北欧国家也采取了和英国类似的策略，原因应该也是相似的。
Interestingly, a number of Western and Nordic countries, including Germany, have adopted similar strategies to those of the United Kingdom, for similar reasons.
比如德国总理默克尔几天前就曾经警告说，根据专家的估计，未来有可能会有60-70%的德国人感染新冠，这个说法和英国科学家的预测不谋而合。
German Chancellor Angela Merkel, for example, warned a few days ago that experts were predicting that 60-70 per cent of Germans could become infected in the future.
此前有不少中文媒体把英国和新加坡等国的防疫政策称为“佛系”，这个说法有点过于轻佻了。
It is a bit frivolous to say that many Chinese-language media have referred to the vaccination policies of Britain and Singapore as "Buddhism."
它掩盖了一个关键的事实，那就是各国的国情都不相同，各国科学家所掌握的科学知识也有细微的差别，采取不同的应对策略是非常正常的事情。
It conceals the crucial fact that national circumstances are different, that the scientific knowledge available to scientists varies from country to country, and that it is quite normal to adopt different coping strategies.
英国的做法还有一点值得讨论，那就是英国政治家更相信“助推”（Nudge）而不是“强迫”（Force），认为前者才是推广任何一项政策的最佳方式。
Another point worth discussing is that British politicians are more likely to believe in "Nudge" than "Force" as the best way to promote any policy.
这个思想来自于美国经济学家理查德·泰勒（Richard Thaler）和美国政治学家卡斯·桑斯坦（Cass Sunstein）于2009年出版的一本同名畅销书，两人在书中列举了大量真实案例，试图证明只有通过设计精巧的诱导和貌似积极正面的鼓励，才能让老百姓发自内心地做出行为改变。
The idea comes from a 2009 bestseller of the same name by the American economist Richard Thaler and the American political scientist Cass Sunstein, in which they cite a host of real-life cases that try to prove that it is only through well-designed inducements and seemingly positive encouragement that people can change their behavior from the heart.
就拿这次新冠来说，英国科学家相信这个病毒不会像非典那样从地球上彻底消失，而是会像流感那样持续地卷土重来。
In this case, British scientists believe that the virus will not disappear from the face of the Earth like SARS, but will continue to return like the flu.
如果真是这样的话，那么强迫老百姓长时间在家隔离是不现实的，早晚有一天会引起强烈的反弹，最终导致局面失控。
If that is the case, then it is unrealistic to force people to remain in isolation for long periods of time. Sooner or later there will be a strong backlash that will eventually spin out of control.
既然如此，那还不如不做限制，改用其他较为温和的方式劝说老百姓主动做出合理的防疫行为，以此来延缓病毒扩散的速度。
In this case, it is better not to limit the use of other milder ways to persuade people to take the initiative to make reasonable immunization behavior, so as to slow the spread of the virus.
写到这里必须指出，英国政府的做法遭到了很多专家的反对，其中包括不少英国本土的学者。
It must be noted here that the British government's approach has met with considerable opposition from many experts, including many from the British mainland.
比如前英国伯明翰大学经济学家托尼·耶茨（Tony Yates）就在《卫报》上撰文指出，助推理论是基于过去的经验而得出来的，也许已经无法适应当前的情况了。
As Tony Yates, a former economist at the University of Birmingham in the United Kingdom, wrote in The Guardian, the theory is based on past experience and may no longer fit the current situation.
比如，英国政府的做法和很多其他国家都不一样，也和世界卫生组织的建议相反，很有可能会带来反效果。
For example, unlike many other countries, the British government's approach, contrary to the advice of the World Health Organization, is likely to be counterproductive.
结语英国政府的防疫政策真的会有效吗？谁也说不好，因为目前没人知道新冠病毒到底会不会发生基因突变，中青年人的病死率是否能一直保持在很低的水平，以及英国的医疗系统是否有能力应对可能到来的急诊高峰。
No one knows for sure whether the new cap virus will mutate, whether the fatality rate in young and middle-aged people will remain low, and whether Britain's health-care system will be able to cope with a possible emergency surge.
还是那句话：对于这样一种全新的传染病，也许我们不必急着做出结论，而是应该鼓励各国根据自己的国情做出不同的应对。
Perhaps we should not rush to a conclusion on such a completely new infectious disease, but rather encourage countries to respond differently according to their own national conditions.
这么做起码可以为科学家们多提供几个对照组，好让未来的人类找到效率更高的应对方式。
Doing so would at least provide scientists with a few more control groups to help future generations find more efficient ways to cope.
而这，才是更高级的人道主义。
And that is the higher level of humanitarianism.
作者档案袁越三联资深主笔，低调，低调。
The author file Yuan Yueyian senior lead pen, low-key, low-key.
26分钟前三联生活周刊⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载开白请联系后台。
Twenty-six minutes ago, the copyright of the article belongs to Lifestyle Magazine. Welcome to your friends circle, please contact the backstage.
未经同意，严禁转载至网站、APP等。
Do not reprint to website, APP etc. without agreement.
点击图片，一键下单「应对不确定性」▼ 点击阅读原文，进入周刊书店，购买更多好书。
Why don't we go to a weekly bookstore and buy more good books Why don't you come over to our office
。
.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
已喜欢，对作者说句悄悄话。
Like it, whisper to the author.
发送给作者。
Send to author.
最多40字，当前共字。
Up to 40 words, currently in common.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“群体免疫”之前世今生。
"Group immunization" before the present life.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "“群体免疫”之前世今生";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "英国政府的防疫政策真的会有效吗？谁也说不好。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Does the British government's vaccination policy really work? Nobody says it.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
