意大利，何以成疫情重灾区？。
Italy, why the outbreak of serious disaster areas?
意大利，何以成疫情重灾区？。
Italy, why the outbreak of serious disaster areas?
刘周岩。
Liu Zhou Yan.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
据意大利卫生部公布，截至3月13日，意大利新冠肺炎累积确诊数达到17660例，死亡1266例，两项数据均为除中国外世界最高。
As of March 13, the cumulative number of confirmed cases of pneumonia in Italy had reached 17,660, with 1,266 deaths, both the highest in the world, the Ministry of Health said.
冲在最前面，以至于不得不“摸着石头过河”的意大利，也成了欧洲其他各国参考的重要风向标。
Italy, which is so far ahead that it has to "feel the stones across the river," has become an important bellwether for the rest of Europe.
记者 | 刘周岩意大利告急意大利成为重灾区，出乎许多人的意料。
RIO ZHOU Yan Italy is at risk of becoming a major disaster area, much to the surprise of many.
全欧洲第一例新冠肺炎确诊病例出现在1月24日的法国，1月31日意大利出现最早确诊病例，是两名来自中国的游客。
The first confirmed case of pneumonia in Europe occurred in France on January 24, and the first confirmed case in Italy on January 31 was two tourists from China.
当天意大利政府就暂停了所有来自中国的直航，宣布进入紧急状态，总理孔特的公开演说中透露着自信：“意大利预防疫情的举措在欧洲是最严格的”。
The Italian government suspended all direct flights from China and declared a state of emergency, saying confidently in a public speech: "Italy's response to the epidemic is the strictest in Europe."
直到2月21日，报告病例数未超过20——此时意大利似乎仍高枕无忧。
Until February 21, the number of reported cases did not exceed 20 - a time when Italy seemed to be at ease.
此后确诊病例数忽然开始增加，23日超过一百，29日超过一千，3月10日超过一万，其增长曲线非常接近一个多月前的武汉。
Since then, the number of confirmed cases has suddenly begun to increase, more than a hundred on the 23rd, more than a thousand on the 29th, and more than 10,000 on March 10, with a growth curve very close to that of Wuhan more than a month ago.
意大利政府采取了一系列超出预期的铁腕措施。
The Italian government has taken a series of drastic measures beyond expectations.
受疫情影响最大的伦巴第大区——被称作意大利的“湖北”，恰恰是意大利经济最发达的大区，下辖11个省，首府为米兰，旅游业、工业非常发达，GDP占到了全国近四分之一，最早陷入危机，如今已经全面停摆。
The region most affected by the epidemic, known as "Hubei" in Italy, is Italy's most economically developed region, with 11 provinces, with Milan as its capital, a well-developed tourism and industrial sector with a GDP of nearly a quarter of the country.
3月8日，世卫组织总干事谭德塞称，意大利实施防疫限制措施，做出了“真正的牺牲”。
On March 8, the director-general of the World Health Organization said Italy had made a "real sacrifice" by imposing restrictions on epidemic prevention.
当地时间3月9日晚，总理孔特宣布取消北部省份为“红区”的划分，全国都进入“红色地区隔离”（isolamento delle zone rosse），限制交通并取消公共活动，全体国民进行自我隔离——所谓的“封国”。
On the night of March 9, Prime Minister Conte announced the abolition of the northern provinces as "red zones," the country went into "isolamento delle zone rosse," traffic restrictions and the cancellation of public events, and the self-segregation of the entire population - the so-called "closed country."
社会气氛也开始变化，住在北部贝加莫的意大利人Federica告诉本刊，“欧洲人不戴口罩”也瓦解了，11日家人去超市，看到本地人也全都戴上了口罩，超市每出去一个顾客再放进来一个，以保持人员间距。
Federica, an Italian living in northern Bergamo, told the magazine: "Europeans don't wear masks" have collapsed. Families went to the supermarket on the 11th and saw local people wearing masks.
Federica说：“情况看起来相当危急。
"The situation seems quite critical," said Federica.
待在家中无法去工作的人们都在社交媒体上支援医生，除了必需的食品店，其他商店、咖啡厅全部关门了，安静的街道上每天听见救护车呼啸而过。
People who are unable to work at home support doctors on social media. Except for essential food stores, other shops and cafes are closed, and ambulances roar through the quiet streets every day.
”住在南部卡塔尼亚的Marco则说：“对于意大利人，我们不太擅长待在家里。
Marco, who lives in southern Catania, said: "For Italians, we're not very good at staying at home.
但是就我所见，现在大家真的都在待在家里。
But as far as I can see, everyone is really at home now.
”意大利何以“起了个大早，赶了个晚集”？分裂的认知意大利作家贝佩·塞韦尔尼尼（Beppe Severgnini）写文章称，如果用一个词形容大多数意大利人近一个月的心情，不是恐惧、不是悲伤，而是：困惑。
Why did Italy "get up early and catch the evening"? The divided Italian writer Beppe Severgnini wrote that the mood of most Italians for nearly a month is not fear, not sadness, but confusion.
“家家户户的晚餐桌上的情绪和观点摇摆着：我们究竟是对一个有点恼人的大号流感过度敏感了，还是在面对严重传染病大流行，有足够的理由去担心？”塞韦尔尼尼认为，不同于呈现给国际社会的决绝抗疫姿态，意大利社会内部很难对新冠肺炎的性质达成共识，于是互相矛盾的信息和政府措施交替上演，病毒趁虚而入。
"The mood and opinion on the dinner table swayed: are we overly sensitive to a slightly irritating pandemic, or are we reasonably worried about a severe pandemic?" Sevelnini argued that, unlike the international community's defiant stance against SARS, it is difficult to agree on the nature of pneumonia, with conflicting messages and government measures playing out.
如今意大利国内社会回头反思疫情以来的各项措施，发现果决的背后有许多分裂之处，从最开始与中国停航即是如此。
Now that Italian society has turned its back on the measures it has taken since the outbreak, there are many divisions behind the decision, as was the case with China in the first place.
没有真正警惕，基层执法部门和社会上下都未能执行政策真正意图去做高危人群筛查，于是在交通高度互联且无边境检查的申根区内，只造成了反效果：该从中国来的各国旅客没变少，反而因为其他方式辗转入境，而使轨迹变得全部不可追踪。
Without genuine vigilance, the failure of law enforcement at the grass-roots level and society at large to implement policies that genuinely seek to screen at-risk populations has only had the opposite effect in the Schengen area, where traffic is highly interconnected and border-free: travellers from different countries from China are not fewer, leaving the track completely untraceable because of other means of moving in.
周瑞民是国内某大学前往意大利交换的学生，他告诉本刊，原本早早定好了1月31日从北京到米兰的机票，恰好赶上当天取消直航，一度担心不能成行，然后发现问题的解决极为简单——改签成两天后的中转机票即可。
Zhou Ruimin, a student traveling to Italy from a Chinese university, told the magazine that he had scheduled a flight from Beijing to Milan on January 31, just in time to cancel a direct flight on the same day.
“在意大利入境时没有受到任何额外的疫情相关的询问或检查，反倒是在莫斯科转机时的手续更多。
"There were no additional epidemic-related inquiries or inspections at the time of entry into Italy, but rather more in connection with the transit through Moscow.
”周瑞民说。
"said Zhou.
最早禁航，反而使得自己更加“不设防”，第一个乌龙只是序幕，意大利建起自己的“马奇诺防线”，病毒则从背后绕过。
The first was a prologue, Italy built its own "Maginot Line," and the virus was bypassed from behind.
二月下旬，一位38岁的与中国无直接关联的本土“1号病人”开启了意大利北部的疫情爆发——直到现在，这位多少偶然出现在意大利的“超级传播者”仍被视作为何偏偏意大利中招的直接因素之一。
In late February, a 38-year-old native "No.1" patient, not directly related to China, triggered an outbreak in northern Italy - a "super-communicator" who, until now, has been seen as one of the direct factors behind Italy's move.
2月14日，这位Mattia先生感到不舒服并就医，被以流感方案进行治疗，两天之后因为病情恶化前往科多尼奥（Codogno）医院，出现肺炎症状但当地医院仍以常规方式治疗多天，直到在一位资深麻醉师的坚持下做了新冠肺炎检测，被确诊。
On 14 February, Mr. Mattia, who was not feeling well and was treated with an influenza programme, went to Codogno hospital two days later with symptoms of pneumonia, but the local hospital continued to treat him in a routine manner for several days, until he was diagnosed with a new crown pneumonia at the insistence of a senior anesthesiologist.
此时医院内已发生了医务人员感染，不巧这位病人还是社交活跃分子，并在此前参加了多场马拉松，导致了数十人被直接传染、数千人被间接传染。
The hospital had contracted a medical infection, and the patient was a social activist who had participated in several marathons, directly infecting dozens and indirectly infecting thousands.
总理孔特承认这家医院前期工作出现失误，医院则回应称，他们的做法只不过遵循了罗马当时的指导方案，只对与中国有关联的疑似病例做检测。
Prime Minister Conte conceded that the hospital had made a mistake, and the hospital responded that it had simply followed the Roman guidance plan and tested only suspected cases linked to China.
病例扩散开后，意大利政府随即于22日封闭了周边11个小镇，隔离近五万人口——当时全国病例还未过百，最关键的两周到来了。
When the case spread, the Italian government closed 11 surrounding towns on the 22nd, isolating nearly 50,000 people - before the country had a hundred cases - and the most critical two weeks.
燎原之火的“1号病人”出现，意大利政府的“猛药”却如同不适配的灭火剂，火势不灭反升。
The "patient number one" that started the fire started, but the Italian government's "dope" was like an ill-suited fire extinguisher.
一系列矛盾的情形上演着：原本米兰在2月24日宣布了宵禁的措施，包括酒吧等人员密集的娱乐场所限定了晚间营时间，3天后又迫于行业、居民等多方压力而取消。
A series of contradictions emerged: Milan announced a curfew on Feb. 24, including a night-time limit on crowded entertainment venues such as bars, which were cancelled three days later under pressure from industry, residents and others.
米兰市长朱塞佩·萨拉(GiuseppeSala)甚至在网络上发起了#Milanononsiferma（Milan Doesnt Stop米兰不停歇）的活动，意大利民主党领袖、拉齐奥大区主席尼古拉·津加雷蒂（Nicola Zingaretti）在内的多名高级官员应萨拉之邀，和年轻人在米兰的街头喝酒、吃披萨，以彰显米兰非常“安全”——如今津加雷蒂被确认感染新冠病毒，面对这样的尴尬情形，他只得在视频中说会遵医嘱隔离治疗，继续尝试着给大家做“不要恐慌”的榜样。
Faced with the embarrassing situation of Milan Mayor Giuseppe Sala, who even launched # Milanononsiferma (Milan Doesnt Stop Milan) on the internet, senior officials, including Nicola Zingaretti, leader of the Partido Democrático Italiano and president of Lazio, showed Milan's "safety."
在意大利的访问学者刘宇菲告诉本刊，疫情开始前正好是威尼斯狂欢节，当时已经持续了2周，她也去参加了一些活动，“有活动的时候威尼斯被挤得水泄不通，因疫情停课前两天我还去看了一场演出。
Liu Yufei, a visiting scholar in Italy, told the magazine that the outbreak began just two weeks before the Venice Carnival, and that she had gone to events where "Venice was packed up at the time and I went to a show two days before the school was shut down.
后来想起来很危险，病毒已经在传播了。
It turned out to be dangerous. The virus was already spreading.
”威尼斯狂欢节的最后两天，被临时叫停。
The last two days of Venice Carnival were temporarily suspended.
从2月22日病例大幅上涨到3月9日全国封锁告急的关键两周内，意大利人继续狂欢节、聚集在热那亚海滩上晒太阳、前往阿尔卑斯山滑雪，用“意大利人生性散漫”或“国情不同”解释都难免简单化，根本原因在于对病毒性质的社会共识始终没有达成。
From February 22, when the number of cases rose sharply to the critical two weeks of the nationwide blockade on March 9, Italians continued their carnival, sunbathing on Genoa's beaches and skiing in the Alps, with "Italians being loose" or "differing national conditions" being hard to explain simply because social consensus on the nature of the virus remains elusive.
从小在意大利长大的胡丽敏告诉本刊，同时身处意大利本地朋友和华人两个群体中，她能明显感到两个群体半个月前巨大的认知差异：意大利人基本对新冠疫情做“流感化”的判断，认为只是日常生活里的小插曲，不必过分担忧；华人则做出“非典化”认知，认为进入了特殊时期，必须严阵以待，这直接导致了系统性的行为差异。
Hu, who grew up in Italy, told the magazine that she clearly sensed a huge cognitive difference between the two groups a half-month ago: Italians basically "flu" the new crown as an episode of everyday life, not to worry too much; the Chinese have a SARS awareness that they have entered a particular period and must be prepared, which leads directly to systemic behavioral differences.
民众朴素认知背后是意大利科学界的一场大论战。
There is a great debate in the Italian scientific community behind the simple perception of the people.
以米兰萨科医院的病毒学实验室主任玛利亚·吉斯蒙多（Maria Rita Gismondo）为代表的“大号流感”派，一度相当有影响力，例如目前疫情最严重的伦巴第大区政府主席阿提里奥·丰塔纳（Attilio Fontana），在2月25日也公开描述新冠肺炎“比一般的流感稍微严重一点”（a little more than the normal flu）。
The "big flu" faction, represented by Maria Rita Gismondo, director of the Virology Laboratory at Mirasaco Hospital, was once quite influential, such as Attilio Fontana, president of the regional government of Lombardy, who on February 25 publicly described pneumonia as "a little more severe than normal flu" (a little more than normal flu).
另一派则是病毒学家罗伯特·布里奥尼（Roberto Burioni）——此前因坚决推广疫苗强制注射而在意大利家喻户晓的科学明星，强烈反对吉斯蒙多，认为她错误解读了重症和死亡数据，给出了具有高度误导性的言论。
On the other hand, virologist Roberto Burioni, a well-known Italian science star who had been a household name for her insistence on mandatory vaccination, vehemently opposed Giesmondo, arguing that she misinterpreted critical-illness and death data and made highly misleading statements.
论战经历了戏剧性的转折。
The controversy took a dramatic turn.
因为一次辩论中调侃了吉斯蒙多的性别，布里奥尼一度在互联网上失势，不得不向对方道歉，然而进入三月，随着疫情失控，民众和政界迅速调转方向，声讨吉斯蒙多误判——目前她已经在社交媒体上隐藏了此前的所有“流感”言论。
Having lost ground on the Internet at one point in the debate, Brioni had to apologize, but in March, as the epidemic spiralled out of control, people and politics quickly turned their backs on Gismondo, who had hidden all her previous "flu" statements on social media.
意大利时评人法拉里奇（Mattia Ferraresi）认为，如今的局面科学界要负相当的责任：“这些争论没有首先发生在医学学术会议、同行评议的期刊上，然后给公众一个清晰、不矛盾的认知。
Mattia Ferraresi, an Italian commentator, argues that the scientific community bears a fair share of the blame: "These debates did not begin with medical academic conferences, peer-reviewed journals, and then give the public a clear, non-contradictory perception."
而是双方在推特、电视节目上火力全开攻击对方，混入了许多与科学无关的因素——于是公众们选择了自己想听到的那个观点。
Instead, the two sides hit each other on Twitter and television, mixing up many factors that have nothing to do with science - and so the public chose what they wanted to hear.
”2月28日意大利主流媒体La Stampa的头版标题是《关于病毒，科学家们之间的战争》——而不是“科学家们与病毒之间的战争”。
On February 28, the front page of the mainstream Italian media, La Stampa, read "About the virus, the war between scientists" - not "The war between scientists and viruses."
“信息来自各方各面，你很难判断。
"The information comes from all sides and it's hard for you to judge.
先开始我们认为只需要小心一点，在外面的时候注意点就可以了。
First we think we just need to be careful. Just be careful when you're outside.
渐渐地，我发现事态变得严重”，49岁的意大利人马孔Marco和本刊分享了他在这两周内心态的变化。
Gradually, I found things getting serious, "said Marco Marco, a 49-year-old Italian who shared his changing mentality over the past two weeks.
作为一名建筑师，他的工作一半时间都在不同城市出差，需要跟着项目跑，妻子更是在另一个国家工作，最开始他觉得封锁交通难以想象更无法接受。
As an architect, he spends half of his time in different cities, running with projects, and his wife works in another country, initially finding it hard to imagine blockading traffic.
但是真的“封国”三天以来，他接受了现状，已经三天没有出门了，“现在我明白居家隔离或许是避免感染的有效办法。
But for three days he had accepted the status quo and had not been out of the house for three days. "Now I understand that house isolation may be an effective way to avoid infection.
我的家人和我身边的人也开始这样认为了。
My family and people around me are beginning to think the same way.
”Marco说，大家现在心情终于转变过来，承认不幸的灾难已经降临，举国上下进入了一个极为艰难——但希望会很快过去的时期，只有把防控疫情放在首位。
"Marco said the mood had finally changed to one of acknowledging the calamity that had befallen the nation and that the nation had entered an extremely difficult period - but hoped that it would soon be over and that only the prevention and control of the epidemic would come first.
社会共识在一个个意大利家庭，也在一级级政府机构中形成——意大利的党派政治复杂，以至于罗马素有“世界上最大的政治实验室”的戏称，许多人评论称意大利不同派别能在两周内达到目前程度的共识已经堪称本国政治史上的奇迹。
Social consensus was forged among Italian families and institutions of government at all levels - Italy's partisan politics is so complex that Rome is known as "the world's largest political laboratory," with many commenting that the consensus among Italy's different factions to reach their current level within two weeks has been a miracle in the country's political history.
只不过病毒无情，两周已足够扩散开来。
It's just that the virus is ruthless. Two weeks is enough to spread.
欧洲风向标意大利以壮士断腕的决心在阻断传播链条的方面做了极大努力，接下来医疗资源能否跟上，避免医疗资源被挤兑以至系统崩溃，成为各方关注的焦点。
With the determination of Italy, the European vanguard, to break the chain of transmission, much attention has been focused on whether medical resources can keep pace, avoid runs on medical resources, or collapse the system.
在疫情严重地区，轻症患者并非全部收治。
In severely affected areas, not all patients with mild illness are admitted.
刘晓芬和丈夫在米兰附近开小店，几天前开始咳嗽、发烧，3月7号病情严重后打急救电话去了医院，她告诉本刊，“送到急诊后，拍片、验血、咽拭子采样。
Liu and her husband opened a shop near Milan and started coughing and feverish a few days ago. March 7 after the serious illness called the hospital, she told the print, "sent to the emergency, blood test, swabs sampling.
虽然确诊结果没有当即出来，但我老公的CT结果显示肺部感染，医生让他直接住进了医院。
Although the diagnosis was not immediately available, my husband's CT scan showed a lung infection and the doctor admitted him directly to the hospital.
护士和我说，你的肺部没有感染，回家去，居家隔离。
The nurse told me that your lungs weren't infected. Go home, stay in quarantine.
给我开了一盒消炎药。
I was prescribed a box of anti-inflammatory drugs.
”回去之后，医院告知了刘晓芬和老公双双确诊的消息，但按照程序，只要她的病情没有进一步恶化，不应该再去医院，药物用完的话找家庭医生。
On her return, the hospital informed both Liu and her husband of the diagnosis, but according to the procedure, she should not go back to the hospital and see a family doctor if the drugs ran out, as long as her condition did not deteriorate further.
电话中，刘晓芬仍偶尔咳嗽，她说自己现在无法和家庭医生取得有效联系，正在向当地华人社区求助，请他们送包括中药在内的药物过来，互助自救。
On the phone, Liu, who still coughs occasionally, said she was unable to get effective contact with family doctors and was seeking help from the local Chinese community, asking them to send medicine, including traditional Chinese medicines, to help themselves.
10日晚上收治丈夫的医院告知，已经把他转去了条件更好的一家大医院，未收取任何费用。
The hospital where her husband was admitted on the night of 10 informed him that he had been transferred to a larger hospital in better conditions, at no cost.
另一位华人理发店老板许均则扔下店铺，停在路边的车和自家房子没来得及妥善处置，就买了高价机票第一时间辗转回国，“现在很多人担心飞机上被感染，我是不顾一切地回来，我说就算感染了，到了中国我放心。
Xu Ju, another Chinese barber, left his shop and left his car and his house on the side of the road before he could properly dispose of them. "Many people are worried about getting infected on the plane.
因为待在外面，恐怕等着变重症了医院才能来救你吧。
Because staying outside, I'm afraid I'll have to get sick before the hospital can save you.
”许均在的城市人口在10万左右，只有一家大型医院，其余都是小医院，他对事态的发展并不乐观。
Xu, who lives in an urban area of about 100,000 and has only one large hospital and the rest small, is not optimistic.
轻症患者没有足够床位，但意大利对疑似病例提供了相对完善的检测，在欧洲绝非“放任”阵营中的一员。
There are not enough beds for light patients, but Italy offers relatively sophisticated testing for suspected cases, and is not part of the "laissez-faire" camp in Europe.
有观点认为，意大利之所以确诊病例远高于其他欧洲国家，可能与其检测覆盖面较广有关。
It is thought that the fact that Italy has far more confirmed cases than other European countries may be related to its wider coverage of testing.
接下来的另一个关注点，是对重症患者的治疗能力——意大利是欧洲老龄化程度最严重的国家，重症和死亡率尤其高，目前死亡率高达6.7%，死亡病例中三分之二是80岁以上老人。
Another focus is on the ability to treat people with severe illnesses - Italy is the most aging country in Europe, with a particularly high rate of severe illness and death, which now stands at 6.7%, with two-thirds of deaths occurring among people over 80 years of age.
意大利麻醉镇痛重症医学学会（SIAARTI）就新冠疫情发布了针对医务工作者的指导手册，其中提请医务人员考虑，如果情况继续恶化，可能不得不面对“灾难医学”状态下的道德选择，即放弃一部分治愈希望较低、治愈后继续存活年龄较少的病人，优先救治年轻人。
The Italian Society of Anesthetic and Analgesic Severe Medicine (SIAARTI) has issued a guidebook for health-care workers on the new crown epidemic, in which medical personnel are reminded that if conditions continue to deteriorate, they may have to face the moral choice of "catastrophic medicine," giving up a portion of patients with lower hopes of cure and who survive less.
手册中提到，具体的做法包括“为重症监护设置年龄上限”。
The manual notes that specific practices include "setting an age limit for intensive care."
手册撰写团队和地方官员说，希望他们给出的建议永远不会用上。
Writing teams and local officials say they hope the advice they give will never be used.
短时间内大量病人让局部出现了超负荷运转的局面，疫情最严重城市之一贝加莫的教皇约翰二十三世医院中，肺科主任法比亚诺·马可（Fabiano Di Marco）称自己现在睡在办公室，到了3月12日，医生们真的是“在地上画线区分清洁区和污染区”，以放置触摸过的物体。
In a short period of time, a large number of patients had overloaded their areas, and Fabiano Di Marco, the head of lung department, said he was sleeping in his office in one of the worst affected cities, and by March 12 doctors were really "drawing lines on the ground to distinguish between clean areas and polluted areas" to place objects that had been touched.
意大利的医疗系统已经在快速调整中，不仅要把全国5000张重症监护床位扩容一半至7500张，还计划在米兰国际展览中心兴建600个床位的临时医院——当地媒体称之为“武汉式”医院。
Italy's health-care system is already undergoing rapid adjustments, not only to halve the capacity of the country's 5,000 intensive-care beds to 7,500, but also to build a 600-bed temporary hospital at the Milan International Exhibition Center, which local media have dubbed Wuhan-style.
身处贝加莫的Federica告诉本刊，当地球赛取消，球迷们没有选择拿回退票款，而是捐赠给了当地医院。
Federica, based in Bergamo, told the magazine that the local game was cancelled and the fans did not choose to take the refund but donated it to the local hospital.
“医务工作者真的非常辛苦，他们现在是意大利最受尊敬的人。
"Medical workers are really hard working and they are now the most respected people in Italy.
”许多退休的医师也重新返回工作岗位。
Many retired doctors have returned to work.
随着疫情逐渐发展，欧洲各国祭出了各不相同的手段——法国等多国相继关闭了学校和公共场所；瑞典提出不会再对所有疑似病人进行检测，因为完全控制疫情的可能性已经不存在；英国媒体解读本国的可能策略是延缓但并不避免病毒在人群中的传播，以期获得“群体免疫”（herd immunity）……“不讲政治”并且真正“平等”“自由”的病毒，在欧洲引发了一场大型社会治理对照实验。
As the epidemic unfolded, European countries offered different tools - schools and public places were closed in several countries, including France; Sweden offered to stop testing all suspected patients, because the possibility of full containment no longer exists; and the British media interpreted the country's possible strategy as slowing but not averting the spread of the virus among the population.
似乎出现了两种不同的思路，一种是希望“毕其功于一役”——例如意大利，用社会代价极大的方式力图将病毒斩尽杀绝，另一种则是“减小损失”，承认疾病大流行的现状，选择可持续的手段，尝试与病毒长期共处，例如英、德。
There seem to be two different approaches, one that wants to "do it all" - Italy, for example, which is trying to wipe out the virus at great social cost, and the other that "reduces losses," recognizes the status of disease pandemics, and chooses sustainable means to try to live with the virus over time, for example, in Britain and Germany.
目前的阶段病毒在各国的威胁仍不平衡，做法也差异显著。
At the current stage, the threat of the virus remains uneven across countries and practices vary significantly.
随着对病毒性质更清楚的认识、病毒在人群中浓度的逐渐趋同，以及出于治理成本、收益的考量，或许可以设想：各主要经济体的应对策略最终会趋同。
With a clearer understanding of the nature of the virus, a gradual convergence of virus concentrations among populations, and considerations of governance costs and benefits, it may be conceivable that the coping strategies of major economies will eventually converge.
若确乎如此，这个平衡点将在何处达到？冲在最前面以至于不得不“摸着石头过河”的意大利，成为了欧洲其他各国参考的重要风向标。
If so, where will this balance be achieved? Italy, which is so advanced that it has to "feel the stones", has become an important bellwether for the rest of Europe.
一家中国企业给意大利的捐赠物资上，引用了古罗马哲学家塞涅卡的名言（有学者考证，并非出自塞涅卡，是一个文献学上长久以来的误会）：“我们是同一片大海的浪朵，同一棵大树上的枝叶，同一座花园里的芬芳”，获得了意大利民众的一致好评。
"We are the waves of the same sea, the same branches and leaves of the same tree, the fragrance of the same garden," the words of the ancient Roman philosopher Seneca, quoted by a Chinese company as saying, "We are the waves of the same sea, the branches and leaves of the same tree, the fragrance of the same garden."
许多中国网友在转发时添上了一句朴素的排比：“我们是同一根绳上的蚂蚱”——全球化的时代，无论是病毒的扩散还是经济的连锁影响，都没有人能独善其身。
Many Chinese netizens have added a simple line to the list: "We are the same grasshopper on the same line" - in the age of globalization, no one is immune to either the spread of the virus or the ripple effects of the economy.
（实习记者孙一丹、印柏同、袁思檬亦有贡献；刘晓芬、许均为化名）作者档案刘周岩《三联生活周刊》主任记者。
(Intern journalist Sun Yidan, Indo-Pak Tong and Yuan Sim are also contributing; Liu Xiaofen and Xu are pseudonyms).
希望同事们平安归来，我刊游戏小组和霞光里足协早日复工。
Hope that colleagues return safely, I print game team and Xia Guang Li Football Association as soon as possible.
26分钟前三联生活周刊个人邮箱：liuzhouyan@lifeweek.com.cn⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载请联系后台。
Twenty-six minutes ago, Triple Life Weekly personal mailbox: liuzhouyan @ lifeek.com.cn The copyright to the article belongs to Three Lives Weekly. You are welcome to forward it to your friends circle, please contact the backstage.
点击图片，一键下单「应对不确定性」▼ 点击阅读原文，进入周刊书店，购买更多好书。
Why don't we go to a weekly bookstore and buy more good books Why don't you come over to our office
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
意大利，何以成疫情重灾区？。
Italy, why the outbreak of serious disaster areas?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "意大利，何以成疫情重灾区？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Italy, what made it a disaster area?;
var msg_desc = "截至3月13日，意大利新冠肺炎累积确诊数达到17660例，死亡1266例，两项数据均为除中国外世界最高。
var msg _ desc = & quot; as at 13 March, Italy had 17,660 cumulative cases of pneumonia and 1,266 deaths, both the highest in the world except China.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
