除了“雷火”，武汉还有这样一家医院。
Besides "thunder fire," Wuhan has such a hospital.
三联.CREATIVE。
Triple. CREATIVE.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
与火神山、雷神山一样，泰康同济（武汉）医院承担了千余名病患救治任务，但它不是十天建成的。
Like the mountain of fire and the mountain of thunder, Taikang Tongji (Wuhan) hospital took on the task of treating thousands of patients, but it was not built in 10 days.
如果不是这次疫情，这家投资近40亿、建设3年的民营综合医院，将在4月以“国际标准”形象开业应诊。
Had it not been for the outbreak, the nearly four billion-year-old privately run general hospital would have been opened in April as an "international standard."
疫情爆发后，尚未完工的泰康同济火线开业，短短一周，奇迹般地完成了“拆家式”改造，为武汉的新冠肺炎患者提供床位超1000张。
After the outbreak of the outbreak, the unfinished Tongji fire line opened, miraculously completing a "home demolition" that provided more than 1,000 beds for Wuhan's Xinguan Pneumonia patients within a week.
这家“军民共建”的新医院，成为了武汉抗疫主战场的重要力量。
This "military-civilian construction" of the new hospital, Wuhan has become the main battleground against the disease an important force.
截至3月12日24时，累计收治1619人、治愈出院609人。
As of 2400 hours on March 12, a total of 1,619 people had been treated and 609 had been cured.
1【第一次改造】危急时刻的病床走在泰康同济（武汉）医院（以下简称泰康同济）的大楼里，会有点迷惑，蓝色玻璃包裹的成片大楼，廊桥连着廊桥，阔大的门诊大厅，铺着大块暖色调地毯，不像医院，倒更像一片功能齐全的现代商务区。
[1] The hospital bed at the critical moment is a little confused in the buildings of Taikangtongji Hospital, blue glass-encased buildings, covered with portico bridges, large out-patient halls and large warm-tone carpets. Unlike hospitals, they are more like a fully functional modern business district.
习惯了长途旅行的人，甚至可能会想起星级酒店办理check-in 的大堂。
If you're used to traveling long distances, you might even think of the lobby of a star hotel for check-in.
这里的总体设计参照了美国医院，没有围墙。
The overall design is based on that of American hospitals, without walls.
△ 泰康同济（武汉）医院泰康同济是泰康保险集团投资近40亿新建的大型民营综合医院，与华中科技大学同济医学院附属同济医院（以下简称武汉同济医院）合作管理。
Tai Kang Tongji (Wuhan) Hospital is a large-scale private hospital built by Taikang Insurance Group with an investment of nearly 4 billion. It is managed in cooperation with Tongji Hospital, affiliated with Tongji Medical College of Huazhong University of Science and Technology (Wuhan Tongji Hospital).
如果完全建成，医院床位数将达1600张。
If completed, the number of hospital beds will reach 1,600.
医院工作人员介绍说：“我们是国际标准，从硬件水平，设计格局，在国内都是首屈一指的，定位是既服务基本医保人群，也提供高端医疗服务。
"We are the best international standards in terms of hardware and design patterns," hospital staff said. "We are positioned to serve both basic and high-end health care.
”医院原计划今年3月底4月初才开业，因此，大楼外的空地，依然是1月21日全院放假时的工地模样。
The hospital was not scheduled to open until late March or early April, so the open space outside the building remains the same as it was on January 21, when the hospital closed.
当时没人想到，19天后，这里会火线开门迎诊，从尚未完工的综合医院，变成高标准临时传染病医院，提供的床位数超过1000张，与火神山医院、雷神山医院相当。
No one expected that 19 days later, the hospital would be open to fire, from the unfinished general hospital to a high standard of temporary infectious disease hospitals, providing more than 1,000 beds, the same number as the Mount Fire Hospital and the Raytheon Hill Hospital.
△泰康同济（武汉）医院南门附近图片来自黄宇对泰康同济重症监护室护士长曾敏来说，这一切来得非常突然，但并不意外。
Photo taken near the southern door of the Tongji Hospital in Taikang province by Huang Yu against Zeng Min, head nurse of Tai Kang Tongji intensive care unit.
曾敏有13年重症监护室护理工作经验，2003年曾在广东参与非典抗击工作，至今记得当年穿着厚厚的防护服、到宾馆接诊一个个发热患者的画面。
Zeng Min has 13 years of nursing experience in intensive care unit. He was involved in fighting SARS in Guangdong Province in 2003.
新冠肺炎爆发后，1月23日，也就是封城首日，曾敏就向护理部主任发信息，申请加入抗击疫情的工作。
On the first day of January 23, the day after the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia, Zeng sent a message to the head of the nursing department to apply to join the fight against the outbreak.
也就是从那时起，曾敏开始频繁地跟同行和朋友联系，学习新冠肺炎的病理、治疗、护理和防护知识，其中，对院感方面的知识，曾敏尤其关注。
Since then, Zeng Min has been in frequent contact with peers and friends to learn about the pathology, treatment, care and protection of New Crown Pneumonia.
院方当时已经陆续请了外部专家和内部院感团队做全面培训，但曾敏自己还是反复跟同行确认，“进门前全身喷洒的消毒液是什么？”，“ICU里面的护士，是在床边记录病历，还是把防护服脱下以后，到外面记录？”在她看来，这些细节的问题，将决定医护人员能否万无一失。
The hospital had already hired outside experts and an in-house team to do thorough training, but she confirmed repeatedly with her peers, "What is the disinfectant sprayed on the door?" "The nurse inside the ICU, after recording the case by the bedside or taking off the suit, will determine whether the paramedics are infallible.
彼时，武汉最紧缺的是医院和床位。
At that time, Wuhan is the most shortage of hospitals and beds.
2月2日，泰康保险集团创始人、董事长兼CEO陈东升向政府主动请缨，为新冠肺炎患者提供床位。
On February 2, Chen Dongsheng, founder, chairman and CEO of Taikang Insurance Group, offered to provide beds for people with pneumonia in the New Crown.
2月6日，曾敏得到通知，医院需要改造成“方舱”模式的传染病院区，选址就在门诊大楼。
On February 6, Zeng Min was informed that the hospital needed to be converted into a "square-cabin" model of infectious disease hospital, located in the outpatient building.
武汉的情况已经非常危急，“应收尽收”的目标已经提出数天。
The situation in Wuhan is already critical and the "receivable" target has been on the table for several days.
曾敏的丈夫就在社区做志愿者，他看到的情况却是：依然有很多居民无法得到救治，有人在医院排队要排上好几天。
Zeng's husband, who volunteers in the community, sees that there are still too many residents left untreated and people queuing up in hospitals for days.
在这种情况下，泰康同济所有员工从全国各地逆行返汉，泰康集团在汉的八家兄弟单位亦伸出援手，一起加入医院改造，肩挑手扛，只用了3天时间，就将门诊大楼改造完毕，并完成了1至4楼、500张病床的布置。
In this situation, Tai Hong Tongji all employees from all over the country retrograde Han, Tai Kang Group in Han eight sister units to join in the transformation of the hospital, shoulder-to-shoulder, in only three days, completed the renovation of the outpatient building and completed the layout of 500 beds on the 1st to 4th floors.
产科主任许小平当时也参与了搬运，她私心里其实还有点心疼，因为其他方舱里用的床，是行军床的标准——而泰康同济的这些病床，却都是从住院大楼搬过来的，可以自动升降，近一万元一张。
Xu Xiaoping, director of obstetrics, was also involved in the removal, and her private heart was in fact a little distressed, for the beds in the other cabins were the standard for military beds - all of which, however, had been moved from the hospital buildings and could be raised or lowered automatically, nearly $10,000 a bed.
△ 泰康同济（武汉）医院医护人员图片来自黄宇1月10日一早，医院正式接收病人，第一天就收治了99位病人。
2007-9-25 09: 48 Hospital Metro-medical Personnel From the morning of January 10, Huang Yu, the hospital officially accepted patients, the first day of treatment 99 patients.
其中一个40多岁的女性患者，曾敏印象很深，那名患者从症状来说并不算严重，但一见到曾敏，就跟她说，“我在家里等了太久，我太绝望了，现在总算能住院了。
One of the women in her 40s, Zeng Min, was very impressed. The patient was not serious in terms of symptoms, but as soon as I saw Zeng Min, he told her, "I waited too long at home.
”那一刻，曾敏体会到了多一张病床，对武汉人来说意味着什么。
At that moment, Zeng Min realized what an extra bed meant to Wuhan people.
实际上，当时从社区来到泰康同济的病人，很多人的氧饱和度已经低于90%了，算重症患者；有一名患者，一下车几乎就倒在了地上；还有两名老年患者，年龄已经超过90岁。
In fact, many of the patients who came to Tai Hong Tongji from the community at the time were already below 90 per cent oxygen saturation and one patient, almost lying on the ground as he got off the bus, and two elderly patients, aged over 90.
如果按照当时方舱只接受“18岁至65岁确诊轻症患者”的标准，这些病人，医院都可以拒绝。
Hospitals would have refused to accept patients with mild cases between the ages of 18 and 65 if they had been admitted to the cabin under the current standard.
但曾敏和同事们全都收下了，“那种情况下不可能拒绝”。
But Zeng Min and his colleagues all took it. "It's impossible to refuse in that situation."
收下病人后，除了为他们尽快联系转院，医护人员们还紧急布置了一间抢救室，7张病床上，包括监护仪、氧流量表、心电除颤仪，气管插管，所有的急救设备都用上了。
After the patients were admitted, in addition to contacting the hospital as soon as possible, the staff had an emergency room with seven beds, including a monitor, oxygen flow meter, electrocardiograph, trachea cannula, and all the emergency equipment.
在护理这些病人的过程中，曾敏感受最深的，是同事们的专业和担当。
In the process of nursing these patients, it was the professionalism and commitment of colleagues who had been the most sensitive.
她说，接手病房时，很多人其实都是第一次接触传染病，有护士因为不习惯防护服的闷热，第一天就在病房里晕倒了。
When she took over the ward, many people were actually first exposed to infectious diseases, she said. Some nurses fainted on the first day because they weren't used to the heat of protective clothing.
但仅仅在一到两天的时间里，大家已经细化出详尽的制度流程，“比如什么时间段为病人测体温，测血压，测氧饱和度，一天测多少次，医生的医嘱怎么执行，边做边理顺，只要有了制度流程，所有人都能迅速执行。
But in just a day or two, detailed procedures have been worked out, such as: "What time periods are used to take a patient's temperature, blood pressure, oxygen saturation, how many times a day are measured, how the doctor's advice is carried out, and how to do it as well as straighten it out, so long as there is an institutional process in place, everyone can execute it quickly.
”△ 医护人员帮部分病人解决个性化需求图片来自黄宇实际上，泰康同济从4年前组建以来，招聘的医护人员，之前大都在武汉同济医院或外地医院规培、进修，为筹备3月底的开业，1月2日大部队才真正回归医院，进行开业前的磨合和准备，同科室里的人，还没有真正一起在临床上合作过，外科室的人，几乎都不认识。
2007-9-25 21: 48 "Health-care personnel help some patients with personalised needs 2007-9-24 16: 48 In fact, since its establishment four years ago, Tai Kang Tongji has recruited medical staff who have been trained and retrained in Wuhan Tongji Hospital or overseas hospitals.
“说实话，我到现在都不知道有些人长什么样，因为一直戴着口罩、护目镜，还穿着防护服，我只知道他的名字，知道他在上班，如果他脱了防护服，在路上跟我打招呼，我也不认识他们，但我又感觉对他们已经很熟悉。
"To be honest, I still don't know what some people look like because they have been wearing masks, goggles and protective clothing. I only know his name, I know he's at work, and if he takes off his suit and says hello to me on the way, I don't know them, but I feel familiar with them.
”曾敏说。
"said Zeng.
△ 迅速组成的医护人员团队图片来自黄宇2【第二次改造】军民共建2月11日，中共中央政治局委员、国务院副总理孙春兰来到泰康同济视察指导。
2007-9-24 16: 38 [hide] 2007-9-24 16: 38 [hide] Military and Civil Affairs Construction February 11, 2007 Chinese Politburo member and Vice Premier Sun Chunlan came to Taicang Tongji to inspect guidance.
考察后，2月13日医院再次“升格”，正式确定为参照武汉火神山医院运行模式，中央军委增派军队医疗队进驻支援，承担确诊患者医疗救治任务，将陆续投入860张重症病床资源。
After the visit, the hospital was again upgraded on February 13, officially confirmed as a model for the operation of Wuhan Fosen Mountain Hospital. The CMC will deploy more military medical teams to support the hospital and undertake the task of diagnosing patients' medical treatment.
2月13日当天下午，泰康同济就拿到了湖北省卫健委核发的医疗机构执业许可证，成为非政府办非营利性医疗机构。
Feb. 13 afternoon, Taikang Tongji got the Hubei Wei Health Commission issued a license to practice medical institutions, non-governmental non-profit medical institutions.
这意味着，这家原本定位为营利性医疗机构的医院，彻底改变了营业性质。
This meant that the hospital, originally designated as a for-profit medical institution, radically changed the nature of its operations.
“危难当头，匹夫有责。
"Danger is the business of man.
这个时候国家要征用资源，我作为一个公民，一个企业家，就应该站出来。
This is the time for the state to requisition resources, I as a citizen, an entrepreneur, should stand up.
”泰康保险集团董事长陈东升告诉本刊，这也是为了尽快收治新冠肺炎患者，临时作出的一个重要决定。
Chen Dongsheng, chairman of Thai Kang Insurance Group, told the magazine that it was also an important decision taken on an ad hoc basis to treat new cases of pneumonia as soon as possible.
“ 我跟同事们讲，这次疫情救援花了多少成本，一切都不用想。
"I told my colleagues how much it cost to save the epidemic, and I don't need to think about it.
能作贡献，我们就感到特别欣慰。
We are particularly gratified to be able to contribute.
这个时候就应该全国上下统一，不分体制内与体制外，打一场人民战争。
It is time for the whole country to unite and fight a people's war, both within and outside the system.
”△ 中央军委增派军队医疗队进驻支援图片来自黄宇收治中、重症患者的病区被确定在两座住院大楼，军队到来之前，泰康同济需要完成这里的改造和准备工作。
2007-9-25 21: 48 "Central Military Commission sends more troops to support the deployment of medicine.The area where Huang Yu is receiving treatment for serious and middle-aged patients has been identified in two inpatient buildings.
他们只有2到3天的时间。
They had only two to three days.
这里的改造远比门诊大楼复杂艰难，除了清扫建筑垃圾，打隔断，安装门，补足水电工程，补充马桶、淋浴间，更换合适的照明灯具外，最难改造的有三部分：一是ICU负压病房；二是检验科室；三是消毒供应中心。
The renovation here is far more complicated than that of the outpatient building. Apart from cleaning construction waste, cutting off doors, installing doors, supplying water and electricity, replenishing toilets and showers, and replacing suitable lighting fixtures, the most difficult parts are the ICU negative pressure ward, the inspection department and the disinfection supply centre.
负压病房指的是，在特殊装置下，病房内的气压低于病房外的气压，只有外面的新鲜空气可以流入病房，被患者污染过的空气则不会泄露出去，只能通过专门的装置过滤净化后排放到安全的区域。
A negative pressure ward is a special device in which the air pressure in the ward is lower than that outside the ward. Only the fresh air outside can flow into the ward, and the air contaminated by the patient will not leak out. It can only be filtered and purified by a special device and discharged into a safe area.
泰康同济ICU原本有一间负压病房，可入住一个病人，但现在，26张病床的ICU，全都需要改成负压病房。
The 26-bed ICU, which used to have a negative-pressure ward for one patient, now needs to be turned into a negative pressure ward.
这一部分最困难的是，要把整个ICU病区全部重新打穿重装，同时在室内安装50米长的风管，形成排气风道。
The most difficult part of this part is to re-weave the entire ICU area and install a 50-metre-long duct inside the building to form an exhaust ventilation duct.
当时武汉市面上根本买不到合适的风管，最后，工程师只能将原先各病房的地下风管拆了，拼接成了一根合格的长风管，完成了负压病房的改造。
At that time, the Wuhan market simply can not buy the proper wind tube, finally, the engineers had to the former wards underground ventilation pipe, spliced into a qualified long wind pipe, completed the transformation of the negative pressure ward.
放射科的改造同样麻烦，泰康同济原来已经有一台256排高端螺旋CT机，可用于拍胸片，但尚未进行系统化调试安装。
The revamp of radiology is no less troublesome. Taikang Tongji already has a 256-row high-end spiral CT machine that can be used for chest X-rays, but has not yet been systematized and installed.
确定收治新冠肺炎患者后，2月22日，医院又接收到一台捐赠的CT机，加上后期政府调配的一台移动方舱式CT机，目前医院实际已经有3台CT机可供使用。
Following the confirmation of admission to the hospital, on 22 February, the hospital received a donated CT machine, which, together with a later Government-deployed mobile square-chamber CT machine, now has three CT machines available in the hospital.
泰康健投医疗运行保障部总经理刘卫国告诉本刊，在安装那台受捐CT机前，医院里的备用CT机房还未完成防辐射装修，只能临时把体检中心已有防辐射条件的DR机房里面的机器拆了，再把CT机装进去。
Liu Weiguo, general manager of the Department of Health and Safety of Health Care, told the magazine that before the installation of the donated CT machine, the standby CT room in the hospital had not been irradiated and had to temporarily dismantle the machines in the DR room where the medical examination center already had radiation protection.
但装的过程并不顺利，DR机房在二楼，DR机和CT机的辐射剂量和重量不一样，都需要专业评估，评估完才决定将二楼落地窗敲掉，然后用吊车把机器吊上去，结果敲掉第一面窗户后，才发现吊车停靠的地面太软容易陷落，只好敲掉另一扇窗户重新施工。
However, the loading process did not go smoothly. The DR room was on the second floor and the radiation doses and weights of the DR and CT machines were different. After evaluation, it was decided to knock out the floor windows on the second floor and hoist them up with a crane.
消毒供应室按三区两通道，入口和出口是反的，需要找到旁路把顺序倒过来。
The disinfection supply room is divided into three sections, the entrance and exit are reversed, and the bypass needs to be found to reverse the order.
经过多次现场调研，走流程，几经周折、反复与院感做技术沟通，最后形成了满足院感和消毒供应流程的、非常特殊的消毒供应室。
After a lot of on-site investigation, the flow, several twists and turns, repeated with the hospital to do technical communication, finally formed to meet the hospital feeling and disinfection supply process, a very special disinfection supply room.
△ 医院的监控中心图片来自黄宇这种不断拆借、破坏的改造，被泰康称之为“拆家式改造”。
Hospital's surveillance center picture comes from Huang Yu this kind of ceaseless borrowing, the destruction transformation, is called by Tai Kang "demolishes the family style transformation."
正是为了在这种大敲大改中完成高效率作业，2月13日，刘卫国从北京赶到武汉支援后就没有离开过，现场督工，现场拍板。
It is in this major overhaul to complete efficient operations, February 13, Liu Weiguo from Beijing to Wuhan after support, did not leave the scene of the superintendent, the scene beat.
2月14日，医院在一片接近工地的形态中揭牌，泰康健投武汉项目管理中心总经理王成林回忆：“当时虽然站着，但我已睡意蒙蒙，眼皮都抬不起来了。
"I was standing, but I was too sleepy to lift my eyelids," recalled Wang Chenglin, general manager of Wuhan project management center.
” 实际上，当时整个泰康前前后后投入的300多人里，至少有一半以上，48小时没有合过眼了。
In fact, more than half of the more than 300 people Tycoon had put in before and after that had not closed their eyes for 48 hours.
军队医疗队在2月14日医院揭牌后进场。
The military medical team entered after the hospital was opened on 14 February.
当时，泰康同济的医护人员也和其他志愿者一起，本已将600张政府临时调集的简易床搬运到住院大楼，安装好后准备当病床用。
At the time, Thai Kang Tongji's medical staff, along with other volunteers, had moved 600 government makeshift beds to the inpatient building, where they were ready for use as beds.
但军方到来后发现，简易的“行军床”并不符合要求，需要更换。
But the military arrived to find that the simple "camp bed" did not meet the requirements, need to be replaced.
而当时，湖北全省都找不到一张新病床了，更何况一下要600张。
At the time, Hubei Province could not find a new bed, not to mention to 600.
最终，600张病床是在河北唐山找到的，总价超过200万。
Eventually, 600 beds were found in Tangshan, Hebei, for a total cost of more than 2 million.
刘卫国记得，当时各部门、各层级的领导都在一个微信群里，从确定订单到付款，只花了1个小时，就完成了流程。
Liu recalled that the leaders of all departments and at all levels were in a small group and it took only an hour to complete the process, from order confirmation to payment.
病床于2月16日下午到达武汉。
The bed arrived in Wuhan on the afternoon of February 16.
是夜，军方与泰康的工作人员一起，连夜安装完毕。
It was night, and the army and Tai Kang staff together, night after night installation.
刘卫国说，后来随着患者数量的增加，呼吸机、空气消毒机这类医疗或辅助器械，只要有货，他们就会立即下单，立即付款，不惜一切代价。
As the number of patients grew, medical and assistive devices, such as respirators and air sterilizers, were ordered immediately and paid for at all costs, Liu said.
为了尽可能多地为患者争取生存机会，泰康保险集团采购的两台ECMO（体外膜肺氧合，俗称“人工肺”） 也从北京装车火速发往武汉。
To maximize the chances of survival for patients, two ECMO's (extracorporeal membrane oxygenation, commonly known as "artificial lungs") procured by TAKang Insurance Group were also loaded from Beijing and rushed to Wuhan.
最终，经过紧张的改造，2月17日，医院开始正式接收中重症新冠肺炎患者，门诊大楼内的临时病房也完成交接，由军队医护人员接管，泰康同济则负责全院的后勤保障。
Finally, after intensive rehabilitation, on 17 February, the hospital began the formal admission of patients with moderate to severe crown pneumonia, the handover of the temporary ward in the outpatient building was completed and the military medical staff took over, while Taicang Tongji was responsible for the logistics of the hospital.
用泰康保险集团总裁刘挺军的说法，从这一阶段起，医院进入了“军民共建时期”。
From this stage, the hospital entered the "period of military-civilian construction," according to Liu Qingjun, president of Taikang Insurance Group.
△ 医院每日例会，对出现的问题当场解决图片来自黄宇3【无名的逆行者】短短一个月，泰康同济收治的患者累计已经超过1300人，每日在院患者千人左右，在整个武汉的定点医院中，收治数量名列前茅。
2007-9-24 16: 48 2007-9-24 16: 55 [hide] In just over a month, Tai Hong Tongji has admitted more than 1,300 patients, about 1,000 people a day in hospitals, and has one of the highest number of hospital admissions in Wuhan.
这样一座庞大医院的运转背后，是一个强大却无名的后勤保障和运维服务团队。
Behind the operation of such a huge hospital is a powerful but nameless logistics and operations service team.
这里每天会产生210桶左右的感染性医疗废弃物，需要人工处理。
Around 210 barrels of infectious medical waste are generated daily and need to be disposed of manually.
很多大型设备也是临时安装的，如高低压电路、中央供氧系统、热水和蒸汽锅炉，正常情况下，这些设备都需要经过充分的安装调试，才能平稳运行。
Many large installations are also made on an ad hoc basis, such as high and low voltage circuits, central oxygen supply systems, hot water and steam boilers, which normally require adequate installation and commissioning to run smoothly.
疫情之下，虽然能够紧急上马，但维修工作量巨大。
The epidemic, although able to embark on an emergency, but the maintenance workload is enormous.
泰康同济后勤保障部负责人张泽良告诉本刊，招人的工作极其艰难，一是因为疫情下，很多人难以返回武汉；二是因为很多情况下，工人需要进入“红区”（隔离区）工作。
Zhang Zeliang, head of Taikang's logistics department, told the magazine that the job hunt was extremely difficult because of the epidemic, which made it difficult for many people to return to Wuhan, and because in many cases workers had to work in the "red zone."
他记得，军方刚接手时，门诊大楼有一次马桶堵了，保洁员搞不定，当时专业的工人还不到位，张泽良只好向有关部门借调了一个工人。
He remembers that when the military first took over, the toilet block in the clinic building was blocked and cleaners couldn't figure out when professional workers were not in place. Zhang had to second-rate a worker to the department.
当时，他让工人先在清洁区掏了几个马桶熟悉疏通工具，一开始，工人挺骄傲，说自己从大年初一开始，就天天到处搞突击，请张泽良帮他多拍几张照片。
At first, the workers were very proud that they had been making raids every day since the beginning of the New Year. Zhang Zeliang was asked to take more photos for him.
然而，在即将进入病区的路上，这名工人脸上的表情开始急剧变化，走得特别慢，开始骂骂咧咧。
However, on the way into the sick area, the worker's face began to change rapidly, walking very slowly and swearing.
从患者入口进去时，因为与医护人员的交接失误，工人被滞留在了病区门口，他隔着玻璃，盯着病区里的患者，独自呆了10多分钟。
When he entered the hospital entrance, the worker was detained at the entrance to the hospital area because of a handover error. He stared at the patient through the glass and stayed alone for more than 10 minutes.
随后，张泽良听到了他摔工具的声音。
Then Zhang Zeliang heard the sound of his falling tools.
张泽良那时才意识到，进入病区，对工人来说，的确是巨大的考验。
Only then did Zhang Zeliang realize that entering the sick zone was indeed a great test for the workers.
甚至，大多数人一开始并不完全了解自己的任务，“他们知道要上前线，但没想过，要上到这么近距离的前线。
Most people don't even fully understand their mission at first. "They know they're going to the front, but they don't want to go so close.
肯定是很害怕的。
It must have been scary.
可能就像走夜路，一点光都没有。
Maybe it's like walking at night without any light.
”从那以后，每当有新的人员加入，做完动员后，院方都会安排人带着他们去医院各处一圈。
Since then, the hospital has arranged for people to take them around the hospital every time new staff join them and the mobilisation is complete.
为了给大家鼓劲，也为了做培训，院方还协调到火神山和雷神山医院的施工单位，专门借调了几个进过“红区”的工人，到泰康同济带了几天班。
In order to encourage the public, but also to do training, the hospital also coordinated the construction units of Mount Fire and Lei Shenshan Hospital, specially seconded a few workers into the "red zone," to Taicang Tongji for a few days.
△ 医院各部门开会图片来自黄宇目前，医院后勤团队主要负责五个方面。
2007-9-25 21: 48 Hospital Department Meeting Picture from Huang Yu, the hospital logistics team is mainly responsible for five aspects.
一是工程保障：设备的巡检、操作和维护保养，工程维修，零星改造；二是医疗废弃物和医疗污水处理；三是保洁和环境消杀；四是医用织物的洗涤收发；第五则是工作人员餐饮保障。
First, engineering support: inspection, operation and maintenance of equipment, engineering maintenance, sporadic renovation; second, medical waste and medical waste water treatment; third, cleaning and environmental sterilization; fourth, washing and receiving of medical fabrics; and fifth, staff food security.
这个70多人的团队里，有医院的工程师、物业工作人员、集团兄弟单位支援的工程师，也有第三方合作单位。
The 70-strong team includes hospital engineers, property workers, engineers supported by sister groups, and third-party partners.
用张泽良的话说，都是“来自五湖四海的杂牌军，之前谁都不认识谁，但特别能打，特别敢冲。
In Zhang Zeliang's words, they were "bastards from all over the world who had not known anyone before, but were particularly able to fight, especially brave."
”在他们入场的10多天里，进入红区达100多次的人已经有20几个，解决的大大小小故障达四、五百个。
In the more than 10 days of their admission, more than 20 people have entered the red zone more than 100 times, and 4 to 5 hundred major and minor malfunctions have been solved.
在张泽良看来，工人面临的暴露风险，实际上跟医护人员一模一样，但防护意识和知识储备却远远不及医护人员，实际操练也不足，感染风险比医护人员更大，所以除非绝对必要，他都尽量不让工人到红区去。
According to Zhang, workers are exposed to exactly the same risks as health-care workers, but the level of awareness and knowledge is far less than that of health-care workers, actual practice is inadequate and the risk of infection is greater than that of medical staff, so he tries to keep workers out of the red zone unless absolutely necessary.
即使去，也让他们做好防护，尽量把当天同类型的工作攒到一起，集中解决。
If you do, make sure they are well protected and try to pool the same type of work for the day and concentrate on solving it.
为了让工人方便领取任务，医院还组建了一个维修服务中心，用原来打印输液签的便签条，将每一个任务单独打印出来，方便工人在红区行动时，将便签条贴在胳膊上，不落下任务。
In order to make it easier for workers to get the job, the hospital has also set up a maintenance service centre, which prints out each task individually with the original printout slip, so that the worker can move around the red zone with a sign on his arm so that he does not fall behind.
而每天在维修服务中心值班的，是8名来自不同科室的护理部主任。
And the daily maintenance service center duty, is 8 from different sections of the nursing department director.
泰康保险集团总裁刘挺军说，在这场“国家抗疫战”中，泰康同济已经做好了打持久战的准备，肯定会成为最后一批撤退的医院。
Liu Tangjun, president of Thai Kang Insurance Group, said the company was ready to fight a protracted war and would be the last hospital to be evacuated.
疫情结束后，这家战火中诞生的医院将会重新装修、改造，回到正常的综合三甲医院定位，但疫情留下的财富不会消失，“在火线上、在战地上诞生，这就是医院最宝贵的精神财富。
When the outbreak is over, the war-torn hospital will be refurbished, rebuilt, and returned to its normal triple-A status, but the legacy of the epidemic will not disappear.
所有参与的人，从骨子里认同的是救死扶伤，这是无价的。
All those involved, from the bottom of their hearts, agree that saving lives is priceless.
”△ 医护人员连线解决工作中的实际问题采访当天，坐在维修服务中心值班的是许小平和黄娟，她俩分别是产科主任和消毒供应中心护士长。
On the same day, Xu Xiaoping and Huang Juanjuan were on duty at the Maintenance Service Center. They were the director of obstetrics and the head nurse of the sterilization supply center.
从医院改造之初，她们一直积极参加后勤保障和支援。
From the beginning of the hospital transformation, they have been actively involved in logistics and support.
她们当天统计的需求和故障包括：“装挂衣钩”，“床头铃坏了”，“通风口封条掉落”，“高温蒸汽灭菌器漏水严重”，“8床卫生间洗浴喷头无水”……这些细碎的问题，在抗疫时期变得格外重要，亟待解决，等待她们的又将是忙碌的一天。
Their needs and failures for the day include "hanging hooks," "broken bedside bell," "air vent seal falling," "high temperature steam sterilizer leakage serious," "8-bed bathroom shower nozzle no water"... these delicate problems have become particularly important in the battle against the epidemic, waiting for them to be busy again.
武汉的天阴着，却不寒冷，毕竟，惊蛰已过，春天真的来了。
Wuhan sky overcast, but not cold, after all, after all, the shock has passed, spring really came.
△ 治愈出院的病人离开泰康同济（武汉）医院图片来自黄宇（部分图片来自泰康同济（武汉）医院）策划：三联.CREATIVE作者：江月摄影：黄宇微信编辑/设计排版：解亚瑾⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载请联系后台。
2007-9-25 21: 48 Healing Patients From Tai Kang Tongji (Wuhan) Hospital 2007-9-24 16: 16 2007-9-19 19: 48 2007-9-19 19: 48 2007-9-19 19: 48 2007-9-19 19: 48 2007-11-27 16: 48
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
除了“雷火”，武汉还有这样一家医院。
Besides "thunder fire," Wuhan has such a hospital.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "除了“雷火”，武汉还有这样一家医院";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; in Wuhan.
var msg_desc = "一座尚未完工的民营综合医院成为武汉生死战场上的“主力部队”之一";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
