我在泉州隔离酒店废墟下的69小时33分。
I spent 69 hours and 33 minutes under the ruins of Quanzhou Isolated Hotel.
郜超。
Gao Chao.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
3月7日晚7点5分，泉州市鲤城区欣佳酒店突然向马路一侧塌陷，造成来自38个家庭的71人受困。
At 7: 05 p.m. on March 7, 71 people from 38 families were stranded when the Xinjia Hotel in Lei City, Quanzhou City, suddenly collapsed on the side of the road.
12日，事故中最后一名受困者被找到，但已无生命体征。
On 12 December, the last person trapped in the accident was found but had no signs of life.
至此，在距事故发生112个小时后，被困的71人被悉数找到，其中29人遇难，42人生还。
So far, 71 people have been found trapped 112 hours after the accident, of whom 29 were killed and 42 are still alive.
温州人游绍峰是被挖出的最后一个生还者。
The Wenzhou people were the last survivors to be dug up.
3月10号16时38分，在72小时黄金救援期快要关闭前，消防员在塌楼事故现场发现了他。
Firefighters spotted him at the scene of the collapse at 16: 38 on March 10, just before the 72-hour golden rescue period closed.
在黑暗的废墟下，经历了69小时33分钟被困后，游绍峰凭借自己作为安全工程师的专业意识和求生意志，艰难脱险。
In the dark ruins, after 69 hours and 33 minutes trapped, Yushaofeng as a safety engineer with their professional awareness and will to survive, difficult escape.
口述 ｜游绍峰记者｜郜超瞬间坍塌3月7日晚上，是我在佳欣酒店的最后一个夜晚，第二天隔离期就要结束了。
+ 8 + + + + + + the night of March 7, the last night of my stay at the Jiaxin Hotel, is coming to an end.
那天下午，跟我在同一家公司上班的堂哥刚回到泉州，还跟我约晚上到他家吃饭。
That afternoon, my cousin, who works with me at the same company, had just returned to Quanzhou and arranged an evening meal with me at his house.
我说我还在隔离，想着第二天再聚。
I said I was still quarantined and wanted to get together the next day.
我当时正在用女朋友的笔记本电脑，和朋友一起打《英雄联盟》。
I was playing Heroes with my friends on my girlfriend's laptop.
突然感觉到大楼在轻震，能听到玻璃落地的声音。
Suddenly I felt the building tremble and I could hear the glass falling.
游戏开局刚刚7分钟，我还记得用的英雄是“吸血鬼”，但外面的声音实在让人不安，于是我放下游戏，起身来到窗户边，想看看外面发生了什么。
Just seven minutes into the game, I remember the hero was "vampire," but the sound was unsettling, so I put down the game and got up to the window to see what was going on outside.
整个房子突然“哐”的一声巨响，我下意识的反应是窗户边不安全，没有掩体，我可能被砸死，赶紧回头，游戏语音那头，朋友听到了我最后一声：“楼塌了！”如果来得及准备的话，肯定是躲在墙角或者有掩体的地方，千万不能躲在墙边，因为墙倒下来可能把人压死。
The house suddenly crashed out with a loud crash. My knee-jerk reaction was that the window was unsafe and there was no shelter. I could have been crushed to death.
我比较幸运，房间里，床铺、床头柜、桌子正好是个三角形。
Luckily for me, the bed, the bedside table and the table in the room are just triangles.
当时视野里最大的掩体就是那张床铺，我一边朝那片三角区那里大跑两步，房子一边塌。
The biggest bunker in my view was the bunk, and I ran two paces toward the triangle as the house collapsed.
这个过程只有两秒，房子就塌完了。
The process took only two seconds and the house collapsed.
其实在这个瞬间，我就想好了基本方针：保存体力，维持心态，等待救援。
In fact, in this moment, I thought of the basic policy: to save physical strength, maintain a state of mind, waiting for rescue.
这算下意识反应，因为我在泉州的汇顺检测集团有限公司，本职工作就是安全工程师，是堂哥把我推荐过来的。
This is a knee-jerk reaction, because I was in Quanzhou Huishun Testing Group Co., Ltd., the job is a safety engineer, my cousin recommended me.
像电气线路靠近库存区域，容易电器短路产生火花；一些机加工设备车床，一些工人会带着手套操作，手套容易被卷进车床，很危险，这些都是我排查的内容。
Like electrical lines close to storage areas, electrical short circuits produce sparks; some machine tools lathe, some workers wear gloves, gloves are easily rolled into lathes, which is dangerous.
公司本身作为技术服务公司，对安全这一块的知识培训也很到位，每月至少做一次安全演练，专家团队也是最精英的一批，都是高工级别。
The company itself, as a technology service company, is well trained in security, doing at least one security drill a month, and the team of experts is one of the best, all in the top echelons.
来泉州前，我刚毕业两年，老家在温州泰顺龟湖镇。
Before coming to Quanzhou, I just graduated two years ago, my hometown in Wenzhou Taishun tortoise lake town.
这次春节回老家赶上疫情爆发，温州是重灾区，我们龟湖镇却是零病例。
This Spring Festival back home to catch the outbreak of epidemic, Wenzhou is a serious disaster area, but our turtle lake town is zero cases.
但是浙江对政策的执行力度非常强，每天都有人在街上巡查，家里每两三天安排一个人外出采购物资。
But Zhejiang's implementation of the policy is very strong, every day people patrol the streets, the family every two or three days to arrange for a person to go out shopping.
我从支付宝上申领到“健康码”，因为我没去过别的地方，就拿到“绿码”。
I applied for a "health code" from PayPal because I didn't go anywhere else and got a "green code."
我们那边还管路，防控期间道路封闭，每过一个村都有检查站，最早出去一概要办理通行证。
Our side of the pipeline, the prevention and control period of the road closed, every village has checkpoints, the earliest to get a pass.
隔离期最难熬的还是工作无法开展。
The hardest part of the isolation period was the inability to work.
当时我手上，有一个服装城的安全生产双体系建设项目。
At that time, I had a clothing city of production safety dual system construction project.
我本来倾向于经常回访客户，但这次只能告诉领导和客户，一时半会儿来不了泉州，没法完成工作，只能移交给同事。
I would have preferred to visit my clients often, but this time I could only tell my leaders and clients that I would not be able to get to Quanzhou in a moment and would have to hand it over to my colleagues.
一直到大概2月20号之后，有通知说，如果健康码是“绿码”，就可以不用办理通行证，直接过那些关卡点，就可以出去了。
Until about February 20, there was a notice that if the health code is "green code," you can go directly through those checkpoints without a permit.
这个政策一下来，我就马上准备动身了。
I was ready to start as soon as the policy came down.
于是在2月23号下午4点，我赶到泉州。
So on February 23 at 4: 00 p.m., I arrived in Quanzhou.
过来以前，以为居家隔离就可以。
Before we came here, I thought we could isolate the house.
一到泉州，立马告诉房东，我是从温州回来的，房东也马上和政府登记。
As soon as I got to Quanzhou, I told the landlord that I had come back from Wenzhou.
直到25号下午3点多，我都在自己的出租屋里。
I was in my rental house until after 3: 00 p.m. on the 25th.
后来被要求集中隔离，我自己打车到欣佳酒店，等防疫工作人员帮我登记入住。
Later asked to concentrate on isolation, I took a taxi to Xinjia Hotel, waiting for vaccination staff to help me check in.
这些措施主要还是针对湖北、温州这些疫情重灾区，我可以理解，只想赶紧把这段在酒店的日子过完，因为我的工作必须现场考察，项目近在咫尺却无法开展，只能干着急。
These measures are mainly aimed at Hubei, Wenzhou these epidemic-stricken areas, I can understand that I just want to hasten to the end of this period in the hotel, because my work must be on-site inspection, projects close at hand but could not be carried out, had to worry.
之后一直隔离到3月7号那天晚上，事故发生。
He was held incommunicado until the night of March 7, when the accident took place.
现在，我就把那辆载着我从租屋驶向酒店的车，称为“死神来了”。
Now I call that the car that carried me from the rented house to the hotel "Death is here."
想想和电影真的挺像的。
Think of it as a real movie.
在废墟下，公司的安全培训和我的专业意识确实派上用场，但是隔离那几天，我却没能发现酒店的隐患细节。
Under the rubble, the company's safety training and my sense of professionalism did come in handy, but for a few days of isolation, I couldn't find out the hidden details of the hotel.
刚刚入住欣佳酒店时，我都没有发现异样，酒店的装修不错。
I just checked into Xinjia Hotel, I did not find anything unusual, the hotel decoration is not bad.
至于大楼采用了钢架结构，而不是混凝土结构，这点从墙壁上很难看出来。
As for the use of steel rather than concrete structures in the building, it was difficult to see from the walls.
每天的消毒、量体温也如常进行，具体规范我就不太懂了。
Every day disinfection, temperature measurement also goes on as usual, the specific norms I do not quite understand.
我之前的专业准备，是记下了酒店的安全疏散图。
My previous professional preparation was to write down the hotel security evacuation map.
到房间后，我还确认了窗户能够打开到一个人跳出去的角度，琢磨空调外机的位置，看看能不能作为火灾的逃生路线。
When I got to the room, I also made sure that the window was open to a person jumping out of the window, looking at the location of the outside air conditioner, to see if it could be a fire escape route.
没想到，坍塌比火灾、地震都快，根本无暇逃生。
I did not expect that collapse than fire, earthquake are faster, there is no escape.
那两秒一过，我就被埋在废墟下面了。
Two seconds later, I was buried under the rubble.
废墟下的三天三夜废墟下完全漆黑。
The ruins were completely dark for three days and three nights.
因为我的房间面朝马路，大楼也倒向这一侧，导致我被埋得很深，阳光照不进来，分不清白天黑夜。
Because my room faced the road and the building fell to this side, I was buried so deep that the sun could not come in, and I could not distinguish between day and night.
那个场所里，到处是钢筋、铁皮和石块，因为抹黑看不见，动一下可能就被割到、划到，所以我浑身到处是这种伤。
The place was full of steel, and iron, and stones; for I could not see through the blackness, and might have been cut and rowed at at a stroke, so I was covered with such wounds.
这三天三夜，因为睡眠紊乱，没有光线，我感觉过了四五天，现在我只能用第一感觉，去梳理那几天的时间：第一阶段是“疼”，睡一觉就好了；第二阶段是“饿”，周围人不断被救走；第三阶段是“渴”，心态有时会有些失衡。
For three days and three nights, I felt four or five days without light because of my disturbed sleep. Now I can only use my first feeling to sort out those days: the first stage is "pain," the first stage is good sleep; the second stage is "hunger," the people around me are constantly being rescued; the third stage is "thirst," sometimes out of balance.
塌陷那两秒只有一瞬间，我背上一阵剧痛，就着地了。
It was two seconds before the collapse, and I had a sharp pain in my back that touched the ground.
一开始，我的头被什么东西卡住，四肢能活动的只有右手。
At first, my head was stuck in something and my right hand was all I could move.
我第一时间把脑袋挣脱开，左手用力扯一下，也自由了，但两只脚还被石块压着，伸展不开，只能保持坐姿。
The first time I pulled my head free, my left hand gave me a good tug, but my feet were still pressed with stones, and I could not stretch.
我尝试了四五次，把脚上的石块挪开，但每动一下石块，左脚都是一阵剧痛。
Four or five times I tried to remove the stones from my feet, but with each movement there was a sharp pain in my left foot.
直到大概30分钟以后，我意识到，坐姿体能消耗快，如果一直不能动弹，心态也会很快崩溃，可能撑不了两天。
Until about 30 minutes later, I realized that sitting in a posture can burn you up fast, and if you can't move, you'll quickly collapse and probably won't last two days.
正好这时，左脚被石块压得肿胀，失去知觉，这是个好机会，痛感会降低。
Just then, the left foot was swollen by the stone and lost consciousness. It was a good opportunity and the pain was reduced.
我一咬牙，用之前挣脱的双手一把扯开一只脚的石块，再用这只脚把另一脚的石块踢走。
As I gnashed my teeth, I tore open a stone from one foot with my previously freed hands, and kicked the other with that foot.
这个过程最难的是，我得自己动手，那一下，简直是疼痛的最高级别。
The hardest part of the process was that I had to do it myself, and for a moment it was the highest level of pain.
四肢可以自由伸展后，我第一选择就是睡觉，保存体力。
After the limbs can stretch freely, my first choice is to sleep and keep my strength.
我躺下来，放空大脑。
I lay down and emptied my brain.
一觉醒来，背上没有那么疼了。
When I wake up, my back doesn't hurt that much.
由于周围都是灰尘，灰尘和流出来的血液结合，脚上伤口结疤也快。
The wound on the foot scarred quickly because of the dust, dust and the blood that flowed from it.
我能听到上面有救援队已经开挖了，是挖机的声音，周边也有听到其他幸存者在喊救命。
I could hear rescue teams digging up above, digging machines, and other survivors shouting for help around me.
我开始在四周寻找手机、矿泉水，无果，最后找到几块天花板装修的泡沫板，垫在背上，因为泡沫板比较光滑，睡得舒服些。
I began to look around for mobile phones, mineral water, and finally found a few ceiling decoration foam, cushioned on the back, because foam more smooth, sleep more comfortable.
里面的高度，我感觉就一辆SUV的车底下差不多，稍微腰一抬就碰到顶了。
Inside the height, I feel like a SUV almost under the car, a little waist on the top.
我人可以趴在下面，但不能站也不能蹲，只能那个姿势。
I can lie down, but I can't stand or squat. I can only stand in that position.
“饿”的阶段里，我和周围的被困者还有互动，印象深刻的有一位小姐姐，她住我隔壁403，我们俩有对话，我问：“你还好吗？”“我那边还好！”“你要坚持住啊！会有人来救我们的！”“好的。
During the "hungry" phase, I interacted with the trapped people around me, and was impressed by a little sister who lived 403 next door to me, and I asked, "Are you all right?" "I'm OK over there!" "You just hang in there! Someone's coming to save us!"
”只有简单的沟通，不然会浪费体力。
Only simple communication can waste energy.
还有大概是我被救出的前一天，楼上有救援队路过，我听到一个女生一边哭一边喊：“叔叔救救我，爸爸妈妈很想我。
There is probably the day before I was rescued, upstairs rescue team passed, I heard a girl crying: "Uncle save me, my parents miss me very much.
”我劝她保存体力，不知道她是不是听见了，一会儿消防员就发现她了。
I advised her to keep her strength up, I wondered if she heard her, and in a moment the fireman found her.
这些陌生人的声音都来自上方，他们不断被救走，我还被埋在废墟最深处。
The strangers' voices came from above, they were constantly rescued, and I was buried in the deepest part of the ruins.
我一边很开心，因为他们都被救走了，下一个就轮到我了吧？也有些沮丧，我怎么就没哭呢？说不定哭了，我也被救走了。
I was very happy, because they were all rescued, the next on my turn? Also a little frustrated, why did I not cry? Maybe crying, I was rescued too.
到了“渴”的阶段，我终于明白了“渴望”这个词，‘渴’真是太难熬了。
At the "thirsty" stage, I finally understand the word "thirst", 'thirst' is really terrible.
我上方有一对母子特别幸运，正好旁边有矿泉水，我就什么都没有。
There was a mother and a child above me who were lucky enough to have mineral water right next to me. I had nothing.
口渴的状态下，人是最容易崩溃的。
When one is thirsty, one is most likely to collapse.
我曾经失智似地拼命寻找矿泉水，浪费体力；废墟下每一个可以碰到的管道，我都用嘴吸过，希望那是一根水管；直到3月9日的雨夜，空气变得湿润，我意识到自己可以从空气中汲取水分。
I had foolishly searched desperately for mineral water and wasted my strength; I sucked every pipe I could touch with my mouth, hoping it was a pipe; and until the rainy night of March 9, the air became moist and I realized that I could draw water from the air.
我从之前保护我的床铺上，撕下一些纱布，用尿液湿润，放在鼻腔边，增加周围的湿度。
I took some gauze off my bunk, soaked it in urine, and put it on the side of my nose to increase the humidity.
干渴有时还会产生些些哭笑不得的梦境：有时候会梦到获救了，谁都不认识我，我还在到处找水喝。
Thirst sometimes brings forth dreams of crying: sometimes I dream of being rescued, no one knows me, I am still searching for water to drink.
生还无法获取水源的情况下，我试着放空自己。
Without access to water, I try to empty myself.
在下面有无数放空自己的时间。
There are countless empty hours below.
我感觉我这一辈子从小到大，每一个你能想起的片段，都会去想一遍。
I feel that I have grown up in my life, every fragment you can think of, will think about it again.
小时候一起和小伙伴去摸鱼，抓鸟。
When I was young, I went fishing and catching birds with my friends.
四年级时，我爸爸车祸落下残疾，妈妈还要出去挣钱，我就开始独立了。
In fourth grade, when my father was disabled in a car accident and my mother had to go out to make money, I became independent.
学校在镇上，家在村里，之间有一段路要走，所以我从四年级就开始住校。
The school was in town, the house was in the village, and there was a way to go, so I had lived there since the fourth grade.
学校要自己带饭盒，自己带米，每周日背着一星期吃的一袋米，走路去上学。
School to bring their own lunch box, their own rice, every Sunday with a week to eat a bag of rice, walk to school.
我当时脑海里都是这些画面。
My mind was full of these pictures.
在废墟下最不能想起的就是那些你最舍不得的人和事。
In the ruins of the most can not be remembered is those you most loathe the people and things.
我摸到过一块类似键盘的东西，是女朋友的电脑残片，因为我的台式机在出租屋里，所以在酒店时借来玩游戏。
I touched something that resembled a keyboard, a computer chip from my girlfriend's computer, because my desktop was in the rental room, so I borrowed it to play games at the hotel.
她是厦门人，名字里有个“双”字，我叫她“Double”。
She is Xiamen, the name of a "double", I call her "Double."
从下面出来后，我就说“Double，我活下来了，没事了”，然后电话她那边就开始哭了。
From the bottom up, I said, "Double, I survived, it's okay," and then she started to cry.
但是在废墟里面，我摸到这块键盘，就一把将它甩到远处，不能想，会变得脆弱。
But in the ruins, I touch this keyboard, it will be thrown far away, can not think, will become fragile.
我后来知道，家里面妈妈、表姐、堂哥，两个叔叔都来了。
I later learned that the family inside the mother, cousin, cousin, two uncles have come.
在隔离酒店，一家人焦虑地盯着两块手机屏幕看直播。
In the quarantined hotel, the family stared anxiously at two cellphone screens watching the live broadcast.
我叔叔平时一天就要抽一两包烟，这几天半包都没抽完，饭一吃下去也立马就呕了。
My uncle usually has to smoke a pack or two a day. He hasn't finished the last half a pack these days.
救援一通知他说遇难者的照片要发过来，叔叔说他腿都是软的，立马先跑到被窝里去哭一场，哭完之后再颤颤巍巍地一张张翻，照片是A4纸，每翻一张，眼睛就一闭，脑子中过一下，想这个人是不是我。
As soon as the rescue told him that photographs of the victims would be sent, uncle said that his legs are soft, immediately ran to bed to cry, and then trembling after the photos of A4 paper, every turn, eyes closed, the brain over, think whether this person is me.
不是，立马扔掉，再翻下一张。
No, just throw it away and turn over the next one.
他说令他印象最深的是有一个穿白色衣服的少年，这个少年出来的时候面目全非，就剩一件白色衣服和裤子可以辨认了。
What impressed him most, he said, was a boy in white, who came out with nothing but a white dress and trousers to identify him.
我离开家的时候，也穿着一件白色的衣服，他内心就非常恐慌了，这该不会就是我吧。
When I left home, I was also wearing a white dress, he was very frightened, this would not be me.
后来他发现裤子是熊猫条纹的睡裤，我没有这种裤子，才确定不是我。
Later he discovered that the pants were panda striped pyjamas, and I didn't have them to make sure they weren't me.
而我妈妈，也一直在床上躺着，家里人看着被子在抽动，她在哭。
My mother, too, had been lying in bed, and her family watched the quilt twitch and she was crying.
我在废墟里埋了那么久，如果说心情一秒都没崩溃，那是夸张了。
I buried in the ruins of so long, if the mood did not collapse for a second, it is an exaggeration.
最后，我内心的救命稻草是一台空调遥控器。
Finally, my inner lifesaver is an air conditioning remote control.
遥控器的屏幕可以发光，我利用这点光亮把周围照了遍：这是一个和一辆SUV底盘下的高度和面积都相仿的空间，但不是规整的长方形，各类家具、结构的残骸把内部分成了一个收敛的多边形，像鸡爪一样。
The screen of the remote controls glows, and I use this light to take a look around me: it's a space about the size and height of an SUV chassis, but not a neat rectangle, with pieces of furniture and structures dividing the interior into a convergent polygon, like a chicken's claw.
为了维持心态，我想象这里是一个两室一厅，中间是客厅，能和周围的被困者对话；主卧比较大，但是晚上漏风，比较冷；这时候就移到次卧。
In order to maintain a state of mind, I imagine here is a two-bedroom hall, in the middle of which the living room can talk with the trapped people around; the master bedroom is larger, but at night the wind is leaking and it is colder.
我还发现一板电池，想着遥控器原来的电池没电后，还有备用，但很快就觉得挺讽刺：难道我活得能比这块电池长吗？我于是就尽情摆弄那台遥控器的屏幕，看看界面的变化，打发时间。
I also found a panel of batteries, thought of the remote control after the battery had run out, but soon found it ironic: Can I live longer than this battery? So I fiddled with the screen of the remote control to see how the interface changed and pass the time.
这样一直坚持到3月9日凌晨，我听见上方有人一番敲击，心想这下有救了，于是安心睡过去。
It lasted until the early hours of March 9, when I heard a knock from above and thought it would be all right, so I settled down to sleep.
一觉醒来后，上方却出奇安静，等了半天也没人回来，我心里一下凉了一截，我可能感觉错了吧。
After a wake-up, the top is surprisingly quiet, waiting for a long time no one came back, I feel a part of a cold, I may feel wrong it.
大约到当天中午12点以后，我大约每隔半小时都能醒来一次。
About twelve o'clock that day, I woke up about half an hour later.
我听到救援人员路过并拿着话筒喊，我大声回应，救援人员却听不到。
I heard rescuers passing by and shouting with the microphone. I responded loudly, but the rescuers couldn't hear me.
于是我开始敲击，救援人员在上头说：有人请敲两下。
So I began to knock, rescue workers above said: someone please knock twice.
我照办。
I'll do it.
这个时候我发现有生的希望了，这次我是真的被发现了，我就不留余力了，一点一丝力气也不想保留了，尽情呐喊——“你是哪里人？”“温州！”“你叫什么名字？”“游！绍！峰！”随后废墟被割了一个小圆口，先送出去的是那块意义重大的遥控器，之后是我。
This time I found hope of life, this time I was really found, I do not want to spare power, do not want to retain any strength, shouting - "Where are you from?" "Wenzhou!" "You! Shoo! Peak!" Then the ruins were cut a small round mouth, first sent out the significant remote control, then I.
从下面出来的时候，我突然感觉有劲了，甚至都能自己走，但是那位救援叔叔劲真大，一个公主抱给我举起来。
From below, I suddenly feel energetic, even can go alone, but that rescue uncle is really strong, a princess to hold me up.
随后上担架，送医院。
Then he got on the stretcher and took him to hospital.
途中，我望着熟悉的南环路，没几秒就到了医院。
On the way, I looked at the familiar South Ring Road, a few seconds to the hospital.
我以为这里是南环路上的泉州市中医院，但是护士告诉我，这里已经是泉州市第一医院了，已经到市区了。
I thought this was Quanzhou City Chinese Hospital on the South Ring Road, but the nurse told me that it was the first hospital in Quanzhou City.
真不知道是我反应变慢了，还是救护车开得飞快。
I don't know if I'm slow to react or if the ambulance is moving fast.
我第一时间给还在老家、身体不方便的爸爸打了电话。
The first time I called my father, who was still in his hometown, he was unwell.
我当时最担心的就是他，我在他心目中也是最最重要的。
What worried me most was him, and I was the most important thing in his mind.
爸爸那几天不吃不喝，我忘不了他在电话里的那几声：“儿子啊，现在没事了，没事了，你好好休息呀。
Dad did not eat or drink those days, I can not forget his voice on the phone: "Son, now all right, all right, you have a good rest.
”被挖出的人里，我是倒数第10个。
"I was the tenth last person to be dug up.
出来后看新闻，我前面六七个都是去世的，我后面9个也不幸遇难，所以我确信自己是最后一个生还者。
When I came out to watch the news, I was six or seven dead in front of me and nine behind me, so I was sure I was the last to survive.
直到现在，想到那些遇难者，我都难受：我们这些人过来复工，本来想着居家隔离最好，结果被送到酒店隔离，还要自己出钱，我们尽管不情愿，也都配合了。
Until now, I have suffered the thought of the victims: those of us who had come back to work, thinking of the best way to stay in isolation, were sent to the hotel to be quarantined and had to pay our own way, and we all cooperated, reluctantly or otherwise.
没想到酒店存在这么大的安全隐患。
I didn't expect the hotel to have such a big security hazard.
我很感激一线救援人员的日夜奋战、我们公司的安全培训和专业栽培，以及帮助我的医生护士，欠缺一点我都活不下来。
I am grateful to the frontline rescue workers for their hard work, our company's safety training and professional training, and my doctors and nurses.
在废墟里我经常做多重梦：被救出来，没人认识我，醒来发现是一场梦，又被救出，我到处找水喝，结果又是一场美梦，层层叠叠的。
In the ruins of many dreams: rescued, no one knows me, wake up to find a dream, was rescued, I looked for water everywhere, the result is another beautiful dream, layer after layer.
如今这场梦终于醒了，周围都是关心我的人。
Now the dream finally wakes up, surrounded by people who care about me.
（ 本文图片来自@福建消防；有关泉州酒店塌陷事件的深度报道，详见3月18日出版的《三联生活周刊》）⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载请联系后台。
(Photo taken from @ Fujian Fire Services; in-depth coverage of the Quanzhou Hotel collapse is available in the March 18 issue of the Triple Lifestyle Weekly.
点击图片，一键下单「应对不确定性」▼ 点击阅读原文，进入周刊书店，购买更多好书。
Why don't we go to a weekly bookstore and buy more good books Why don't you come over to our office
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
我在泉州隔离酒店废墟下的69小时33分。
I spent 69 hours and 33 minutes under the ruins of Quanzhou Isolated Hotel.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "我在泉州隔离酒店废墟下的69小时33分";。
var msg _ title = & quot; I & quot; 69 hours at & quot; under the ruins of Quanzhou & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "在黑暗的废墟下，经历了69小时33分钟被困后，游绍峰凭借自己作为安全工程师的专业意识和求生意志，艰难脱险。
var msg _ desc = & quot; after 69 hours and 33 minutes trapped under the dark rubble, Mr. Yushofeng pulled himself out of danger thanks to his professionalism and willingness to survive as a safety engineer.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
