韩国防疫焦点：神秘“新天地”。
Korea epidemic prevention focus: mysterious "new world."
张洁琼。
Jet Chang.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
2015年Mers（中东呼吸综合症）事件以后，韩国重整疾控部门，在这次抗击新冠病毒的入侵中展现出了相当不错的现代防控能力。
In the wake of the Mers (Middle East Respiratory Syndrome) incident in 2015, South Korea restructured its disease-control services, demonstrating considerable modern control capabilities in the fight against the New Crown virus.
但一个新兴宗教的隐蔽性和聚集性，让韩国抗疫的局面更为复杂困难。
But the closeness and agglomeration of a new religion complicates the fight against the disease in South Korea.
据美国约翰斯·霍普金斯大学的数据显示，韩国目前新冠肺炎确诊患者累计超过7800例，其中八成属于集体感染，近六成与新天地教相关。
According to Johns Hopkins University, more than 7,800 patients have been diagnosed with pneumonia in South Korea, of which 80 percent are collective infections and nearly 60 percent are related to Xintiandi.
实习记者｜张洁琼31号患者“31号”俨然成为了一个令所有韩国人感到恐惧的数字。
Intern reporter, Jane Chang 31 patient "31" has become a number that all Koreans fear.
从它出现的那一天起，韩国便被迫成为了这场全球抗疫大战的“焦点”。
From the day it emerged, South Korea was forced to be the "focal point" of the global fight against the disease.
2月6日，一位61岁的韩国大邱市老妇遭遇车祸，被送进了医院。
On February 6, a 61-year-old woman from Daegu, South Korea, was taken to hospital in a car accident.
虽然只是一些轻伤，但她仍需要在医院待上一阵子，进行观察。
Although she was only slightly injured, she still needed to stay in the hospital for some time for observation.
进医院前，新冠病毒已经侵入体内，她很快出现发热症状。
Before entering the hospital, the new crown virus had invaded her body and she soon developed fever symptoms.
老妇整天在医院里休养身体，十天内很少离开过医院。
The old woman spent the whole day recuperating in the hospital and rarely left the hospital in ten days.
但作为一个虔诚的新天地教教徒，她坚决不能错过礼拜。
But as a devout New World, she was determined not to miss church.
于是，2月9日和2月16日早上7点30分，她独自拖着病躯去了新天地教大邱教会。
Thus, on 9 February and 16 February at 7.30 a.m., she dragged herself to Xintiandi to teach Daegu Church.
进入教堂前，为了表示对神的尊敬，教徒们纷纷摘下了口罩，数千个人肩并肩坐在教堂的地板上，像沙丁鱼罐头一样，教徒们之间仅仅相隔5厘米，手肘挨着手肘，这种状态持续了整整两个小时。
Thousands of people sat side by side on the church floor, like sardines, only five centimeters apart and their elbows next to their elbows for two hours before entering the church.
休息时间，老妇会和其他教徒握手打招呼，也会和其他人一起在服务处分享便当。
During the break, the old woman shakes hands with other believers and shares the convenience with others at the service.
新天地教前教徒安素英向路透社记者回顾她参加过的礼拜现场：“牧师每说一句话，我们都要跟着说一句‘阿门’，这是病毒传播的最好环境。
"For every word the priest says, we have to say, 'Amen,' the best environment for the virus to spread," Anshu-UK, a former Protestant, told Reuters.
”礼拜后的第二天，老妇的病情进一步恶化，在医生的建议下，她终于做了新冠病毒的检测，检测结果显示阳性，韩国第31号患者由此确诊。
"The next day, the woman's condition deteriorated further and she was finally tested positive for the new crown virus at the doctor's suggestion, which led to the diagnosis of South Korean patient No. 31.
在“31号”出现以前，韩国的防疫阵线还算坚固。
Prior to the emergence of "31," Korea's anti-epidemic front was relatively strong.
娜娜是远嫁韩国大邱的中国人，对疫情的关注度比一般韩国人高出许多。
Nana is a Chinese who married Daegu in South Korea and is much more concerned about the epidemic than the average Korean.
她每天会刷新闻关注韩国的新冠确诊人数。
She brushes the news every day to keep track of the number of newly diagnosed South Korean crowns.
从1月15日韩国出现第一例新冠病毒感染病例以后，确诊人数缓慢上涨，“基本上是今天蹦出一个，明天可能没有。
Since January 15, when South Korea first reported a new crown virus infection, the number of people diagnosed has risen slowly, "basically one today, maybe not tomorrow."
”直到2月18日，新增确诊人数刚超过20人。
By February 18, just over 20 new cases had been confirmed.
但2月19日的新闻让娜娜突然紧张起来——当天确诊人数突然上涨几十例，“31号”患者上了各大新闻头条。
But the Feb. 19 news made Nana suddenly nervous - the number of confirmed cases rose by dozens that day, and "31" made headlines.
2月20日，在新天地大邱教会前，卫生站工作人员在消毒防疫。
Health station workers disinfect and vaccinate people in front of Taegu Church in Xintiandi on February 20.
韩联社几天前娜娜结束了居家隔离，放心地摘下了口罩，但2月19日的新闻让她感到危险正在一步步逼近自己。
Nana ended her isolation a few days ago, relieved to take off her mask, but the Feb. 19 news left her feeling dangerously close to her.
当天的新增患者中有15位来自大邱市及毗邻的庆尚北道，并接触过31号患者，而娜娜正好住在大邱五环处的一个居民区里。
Fifteen of the new patients came from Daegu and the neighbouring province of Gyeongshan North and had contact with patient No. 31, who was living in a residential area near the Taegu Five Ring Road.
没过几天，她听到家里广播通报说，小区里出现了一例确诊病例。
A few days later, she heard on the radio from home that there had been a confirmed case in the community.
“听到广播的那一刻我特别紧张，24小时没敢出门。
"I was so nervous when I heard the broadcast that I didn't go out for 24 hours.
”娜娜说。
"said Nana.
小区管理处不愿意透露感染患者的具体位置和信息，但从那天以后，广播每天都会多一句提醒：“请以您身边就有确诊患者的标准来对待疫情，提高自己的防护意识。
The district administration is reluctant to reveal the location and information of infected patients, but since that day, the radio has added a daily reminder: "Please treat the outbreak as if you had a confirmed patient around you and raise your awareness of prevention.
”大邱，这座韩国最重要的工业城市开始陷入沉默。
Daegu, South Korea's most important industrial city, began to fall silent.
娜娜发现，街上很快空了，人们退回到家中，不再轻易出门。
Nana found that the street was soon empty, and people retreated to their homes and did not go out easily.
街边的牙科小诊所、美容院、面包房大门仍开着，但里面只有店主孤独的身影。
Street side of the dental clinic, beauty salon, bakery door is still open, but only the owner lonely figure inside.
马路上的绿树间也挂起了条幅，清晰标注着：勤洗手、戴口罩。
Banners hung among the trees along the road, clearly indicating: Wash hands frequently and wear masks.
20例、31例、22例……接下来的几天，新增确诊患者人数继续向上攀升着。
In the next few days, the number of newly diagnosed patients continued to climb.
韩国防疫部门搜集了与31号患者一起礼拜的1001名大邱新天地教徒的名单，防疫官员们拨打电话过去，挨个确认他们是否出现了发热或咳嗽症状。
South Korea's epidemic prevention agency has collected a list of 1,001 Taegu Xintiandi believers who worshiped with patient No. 31, and cordon officials called to confirm whether they had developed fever or cough symptoms.
整整一天过去，1001名教徒里回答有症状的有90人，无症状的有515人，其余396人难以取得联系。
Over the course of the day, 90 of the 1,001 believers answered symptoms, 515 asymptomatic, and 396 others had difficulty contacting them.
寻找变成了追踪，600名大邱警察被紧急调配，他们通过教徒们的手机定位和信用卡数据追踪他们的行踪，反复比对摄像头监控，确定教徒们的去处。
The search turned into a chase, with 600 Taegu police officers being rushed to track their whereabouts through their cell phone location and credit card data, checking cameras over and over again to determine where they were going.
他们亲自挨个前往教会成员的家，从窗外观察屋里是否有人生活的迹象，再敲开房门。
They went one by one to the church members' houses, looked out of the windows for signs of life, and knocked on the door.
神秘的新天地教事实上，疫情爆发前，新天地教就是个争议非常大的宗教组织。
The Mysterious New World Church In fact, before the outbreak of the epidemic, Xintiandi was a very controversial religious organization.
它有着极封闭的内部组织，举办自己的奥运会、毕业典礼和万国首脑会议。
It has a very closed internal organization, hosting its own Olympics, graduation ceremonies and summits of nations.
集会上，来自40多个国家的教徒齐聚韩国，围坐在体育场里高唱赞歌。
Protestants from more than 40 countries gathered at the rally to chant hymns around the stadium.
创始人李万熙穿着雪白的传统服饰，手拿一把折扇，坐在高台上面对着近万个热情高涨的教徒们。
Founder Lee Wanxi, dressed in a traditional white costume and a folding fan, sat on the dais facing nearly a thousand ardent followers.
坊间认为它是基督教的异端，甚至称其为“邪教”。
It is believed to be heresy to Christianity, even called a "cult."
韩国CBS电视台专门拍摄纪录片，控诉“新天地”导致了诸多不良社会行为：骗取钱财，破坏家庭，教唆未成年人离家出走等等。
CBS Television, which specializes in documentaries, accuses Xintiandi of leading to many bad social practices: cheating on money, destroying families, inciting minors to run away from home, and so on.
也因为这种争议性，很多教众都隐瞒了自己加入新天地教的身份。
Because of this controversy, many members of the clergy have concealed their status as members of the Xintiandi religion.
而现在，因为疫情，“新天地”再次成为众矢之的。
Now, because of the epidemic, "Xintiandi" has once again become the target of public criticism.
教徒们的神秘身份被纷纷披露，民众感到惊讶，部队里信仰新天地的军人竟然超过100人。
The mystical identities of the faithful have been revealed to the surprise of the masses, with more than 100 soldiers in the army professing a new world.
一个在大邱病毒检测定点诊所工作的公务员，直到检测结果呈阳性，才向家人和朋友承认，自己是教会成员。
A civil servant working at the Taegu Virus sentinel clinic did not admit to his family and friends that he was a member of the church until he tested positive.
3月2日，新天地教创始人李万熙面对摄像机，代表教众向公众道歉。
On March 2, Li Wanxi, founder of Xintiandi Church, apologized to the public on behalf of the congregation in front of a camera.
他戴着一副防护口罩，声音哽咽：“我不知道我的话能起到什么作用。
He was wearing a face mask with a lump in his voice: "I don't know what my words will do.
”接着，他从椅子上站起，走到桌旁的空地，缓缓地弯曲膝盖，跪倒在地，向在场的媒体和市民鞠了一躬。
"Then, rising from his chair, he went to a vacant lot near the table, bent his knees slowly, knelt down, and bowed to the press and the people present.
“我向人民表示深深的歉意。
"I deeply apologize to the people.
”李万熙不断重复着，“但并不是教会让疫情更加严重。
"But it is not the church that is making the epidemic worse."
”摄像机多次将特写给到李万熙手腕戴着的一块金色手表，那是前任总统朴槿惠给他的赠物，而大邱正是朴槿惠的故乡，这里有众多朴的追随者。
The camera repeatedly featured a gold watch on Lee's wrist - a gift from former President Park Geun-hye, who is Park's home town with a large following.
泛着金光的表盘让民众加重了对李万熙的质疑，现场的抗议者拿扩音器大声呼喊着，他们要求政府力惩李万熙和新天地高层。
The glittering dial raised questions about Lee, who was shouted over loudspeakers by protesters demanding that the government crack down on Mr. Lee and senior officials.
人群愤怒的声音盖过了记者的提问声。
The angry voice of the crowd drowned out the questions from the reporters.
3月2日，在京畿道加平郡，李万熙在记者会上就教会内集体感染跪地谢罪。
March 2, Gyeonggi Province, Gyeonggi Province, Lee Wan-hee at a press conference on the collective infection within the Church to thank the guilty.
韩联社“几天前李万熙还教他的信徒们如何避开韩国警察。
"A few days ago Lee Wanxi also taught his followers how to avoid the South Korean police.
他说，如果有警察问到近期有没有参与过新天地教会的活动，就回答已经退出很久了。
He said if any of the police had asked if they had been involved in Xintiandi Church in the near future, they would have said they had left for a long time.
如果警察问和新天地有没有关系，就回答说没有。
If the policeman asked if there was anything to do with Xintiandi, he said no.
”一年前退出新天地教的中国成员王颂告诉本刊。
Wang Song, a Chinese member who withdrew from Xintiandi a year ago, told the magazine.
他在新闻上得知教会成员隐瞒自己的身份时并不感到意外。
He was not surprised to learn on the news that members of the church were concealing their identities.
五年前他参加哈尔滨新天地教会的培训课程时曾被警察拘留，当时他还是一名大四学生，学校接回了他，但要求他写封检查上交。
He was detained by the police five years ago when he was attending a training course at the Xintiandi Church in Harbin, where he was a senior student, but was asked to write an examination and turn him in.
“教会里的成员教我如何骗过学校，如果写检查，他们让我写，以后再也不参加教会活动了。
"The members of the church taught me how to cheat the school, and if I did, they told me to write and never go to church again.
但后来，我一直都在参加。
But since then, I've been there.
”韩国政府将李万熙推上了被告台，他们以过失杀人罪、伤害罪、违反传染病预防管理相关法律为由向首尔市监察厅起诉了新天地教会会长李万熙等人。
The South Korean government pushed Lee Wanxi to the defendants, who sued Seoul's city prosecutor for manslaughter, injury and violation of laws governing the prevention and management of infectious diseases, against Lee Wanxi, president of Xintiandi Church.
3月3日，首尔市文化部部长柳延植公开表示，“新天地教会有责任积极配合政府及防疫部门的工作，但在提交信徒名单时却不断拖延、伪造，并有组织地回避调查，且据我们了解，该教会目前仍在各种地下场所进行传教和聚会。
On March 3, Seoul's Minister of Culture, Yoo Yanzhi, publicly stated: "The Church has a responsibility to actively cooperate with the government and anti-epidemic departments, but is constantly delaying, forging and systematically avoiding investigations when submitting the list of believers, and we understand that the church is still preaching and gathering in various underground places.
”3月8日，韩国确诊人数达到了7137人，其中超过60%都是新天地教会成员。
More than 60 percent of the 7,137 people diagnosed in South Korea on March 8 are members of the New World Church.
民众对新天地的抗议声达到了高潮，要求总统解散新天地的请愿书在四天内收集了超过75万个签名，是青瓦台公开回应的起始标准（30天内集齐20万个）的四倍。
Public protests against Xintiandi reached a climax, with a petition demanding that the president dissolve Xintiandi with more than 750,000 signatures in four days, four times the threshold for a public response in Qingwadai (200,000 in 30 days).
为推进疫情防治和调查，大邱市长权泳臻要求有关部门对新天地教采取强制措施，但当地检察院却多次拒绝了政府搜查扣押教会活动场所的请求。
In order to promote the prevention and investigation of the epidemic, Daegu Mayor Kwan Yongzhen asked the relevant authorities to take compulsory measures against Xintiandi Church, but the local procuratorate repeatedly refused the government's request to search and detain places of worship.
韩国的抗疫进程陷入了焦灼状态。
The epidemic in South Korea is in a state of anxiety.
3月10日上午，在首尔市九老区的一家呼叫中心门口，当地居民进入筛查诊所接受诊查。
On the morning of March 10, local residents entered a screening clinic at the entrance to a call center in Seoul's Jiuolao district.
韩联社韩国的防疫大考对新冠防疫，韩国本可以交上一份高分答卷。
Korea will be able to hand in a high score response to the Korea immunization test for the new crown.
在病毒入侵韩国的进程中，相关疾控部门一开始展现出了有效的治理能力。
In the course of the virus invasion into Korea, the relevant disease control departments initially demonstrated effective governance.
1月12日，武汉疫情还未大范围扩散时，朴永载所在的Celemics生物技术公司就接到了韩国疾病管理本部（KCDC）的任务。
On January 12, before the Wuhan epidemic spread widely, Park's Celemics Biotechnology Company was given the job at Korea's disease-management headquarters.
彼时韩国出现了第一例新冠肺炎病例，病毒传至不同地区会发生一定变异，需要立刻对病毒基因序列进行分析。
There was the first case of New Crown Pneumonia in South Korea, and the virus spread to different areas will be mutated, requiring immediate analysis of the virus gene sequence.
Celemics公司最新研发出的技术兼具NGS二代测序的高质量和一代测序的准确性，再加上中方提供的新冠病毒基因序列，16小时后，他们便得出了病毒变异结果。
The latest technology developed by Celemics combines the high quality of NGS-2 sequencing and the accuracy of the next-generation sequencing, plus the new crown virus gene sequence provided by China, which led to the mutation 16 hours later.
朴永载告诉本刊记者，韩国基因测序的速度和准确度都是名列前茅的，现在备受病毒困扰的法国完成测序工作花费了5天。
Park told reporters that South Korea has one of the highest rates of gene sequencing and accuracy, and it has now taken five days for the virus-plagued country to complete sequencing.
“因为韩国充分掌握了之前Sars、Mers等六种病毒的基因信息，所以中国提供了新冠病毒的基因信息后，我们很快就能比对出来，相当于别的国家都是从零开始，韩国是从50到100。
"Because South Korea has full access to genetic information about the previous six viruses, including Sars and Mers, when China provided genetic information about the new crown virus, we were able to match it quickly, equivalent to starting from scratch in other countries and from 50 to 100 in South Korea.
”1月29日，朴永载从北京飞回了首尔。
Park flew back to Seoul from Beijing on January 29.
机场出口特设了一条绿色通道，用于区分从中国出发的飞机，机场外还有学校派的专车接送中国留学生。
A special green passage has been set up at the airport exit to distinguish between aircraft departing from China and special buses sent by schools to transport Chinese students outside the airport.
离开前出现发热症状的乘客被要求下载一个手机APP，每天上传自己的健康状况。
Passengers with fever symptoms before leaving were asked to download a mobile phone APP and upload their health status every day.
1月31日，娜娜结束了北京的春节，降落在了首尔机场，入境处给了他一张白纸，标注了一整页自我隔离的注意事项和突发症状的应对措施。
Nana landed at Seoul airport on January 31, ending her Spring Festival in Beijing. Immigration gave him a sheet of white paper describing a full page of self-isolation tips and how to deal with sudden symptoms.
她叮嘱来接机的丈夫，备好口罩，把酒精装在喷壶里带给她。
Her husband, who had come to pick up the plane, prepared a mask and brought her the alcohol in a spray bottle.
机场出口一见面，丈夫就给她从头到尾做了一场喷雾式消毒。
Upon meeting at the airport exit, her husband gave her a spray-sterilisation from start to finish.
3月9日，在仁川机场，来自日本的旅客在接受检疫。
Passengers from Japan are being quarantined at Incheon Airport on March 9.
韩联社从北京回到首尔后，朴永载被要求去做一次新冠病毒检测。
When the agency returned to Seoul from Beijing, Park was asked to do a new crown virus test.
他发现街上出现了众多神秘帐篷，身着白色防护服的医护人员站在中间，像麦当劳提供快速服务一样为民众做检测。
He found many mysterious tents on the streets, with white-coated paramedics standing in the middle, testing people like McDonald's for quick service.
自2月7日快速检测试剂在韩国正式投入使用后，政府搭建了这些“免下车”病毒检测站。
Since February 7, when rapid detection reagents were put into use in South Korea, the government has set up these "off-the-bus" virus detection stations.
朴永载开车通过时，医护人员将一根20厘米长的取样棒递给他，他把木棒伸入了自己的口腔，采集了咽拭子样本，紧接着递回给医护人员，医护人员谨慎地接过，保存了下来。
As Park drove past, paramedics handed him a 20-centimeter-long sampling stick, which he stuck into his mouth, collected swabbing samples, then handed them back to the paramedics, who carefully took them over and saved them.
摇下车窗后，朴永载将车缓缓开出了帐篷，病毒检测就结束了。
After shaking off the window, Park Yongzhao slowly out of the tent, the virus detection is over.
他对韩国政府的这项举措感到兴奋：“传统医院的检测方法，每采集一个人都要重做一次消毒，而这种方式我们不需要下车，不需要反复消毒，即便有人确诊也不会污染检测点，时间就缩短了很多。
He was excited by the move: "The traditional hospital testing method, which resterilizes every person we collect, eliminates the need to get out of the car, does not require repeated disinfection, and even if a person is diagnosed, does not contaminate the test site, time is much shorter.
”朴永载告诉本刊，与2015年应对Mers（中东呼吸综合症）时相比，韩国在应对新冠肺炎时的举措进步了太多，“2015年的时候，韩国政府什么都不干，不公布易感地点，也不公布收治感染患者所在的医院，政府只有一句话，不要摸骆驼，多搞笑。
Park told the magazine that South Korea had made too much progress in its response to the outbreak of pneumonia in 2015 compared with what it had done when it responded to Mers (Middle East Respiratory Syndrome).
”在那场危机中，韩国成为了沙特以外，全球感染速度最快的国家，付出了36人死亡的惨重代价，这让韩国重新梳理了疾控体系。
In that crisis, South Korea became the world's fastest-infected country outside Saudi Arabia, paying a heavy price in the lives of 36 people, leading it to revamp its disease-control system.
“三年前文在寅上台，前总统朴槿惠手下的疾控官员都不干了，新政府不得不重新搭建疾控部门，去年年末，疾控部门进行了一次大规模预演，所以这次政府的采取的措施可以这么到位。
"Three years ago, when we came to power, former President Park Geun-hye's disease-control officers left, the new administration had to re-establish the disease-control department, and at the end of last year, the CDC held a large-scale rehearsal, so this time the administration could have done so.
”3月12日，在首尔九老区卫生站，医务人员为检查新冠病例做准备。
On March 12, medical staff prepared for a new crown case at Seoul's Jiuolong District Health Station.
韩联社但形势依旧严峻。
But the situation remains grim.
据美国约翰斯·霍普金斯大学的数据显示，韩国目前新冠肺炎确诊患者累计超过7800例，其中八成属于集体感染，近六成与新天地教相关。
According to Johns Hopkins University, more than 7,800 patients have been diagnosed with pneumonia in South Korea, of which 80 percent are collective infections and nearly 60 percent are related to Xintiandi.
据李万熙的表述，新天地教会已在韩国和海外拥有24.5万名信徒。
According to Lee, Xintiandi Church has 245,000 followers in South Korea and overseas.
这些隐蔽身份的信徒成为如今防疫的最大隐患。
These undercover believers are now the greatest danger to immunization.
虽然教会在压力下向警方提交了教众的名单，但警方在排查中发现这个名单并不准确，名单中包含已经退出教会的前成员，甚至把一些仅仅参加过入教培训的退出者列为了新天地教会的骨干成员。
Although the church had submitted a list of congregations to the police under pressure, the police had found the list inaccurate during the raid, which included former members who had left the church and even listed some of the exiles who had only attended the training as key members of Xintiandi Church.
虽然现在还无法证明不准确的成员名单是新天地教会故意隐瞒，还是因为内部管理混乱导致，但它确实给疫情防控造成了很大阻碍。
While it is not yet possible to prove whether the inaccurate membership was deliberately concealed by the Church or was the result of internal mismanagement, it does pose a significant impediment to disease control.
重新回溯疫情的蔓延，韩国之灾并非手握利器的疾控部门就能解决。
Looking back to the spread of the epidemic, South Korea's disaster is not the weapon of the disease control department can solve.
教会派系林立，管理混乱的问题已经成为此次疫情的重大隐患。
The problem of church factionalism and mismanagement has become a major concern of the epidemic.
（应采访对象要求，文中王颂为化名。
(At the request of the interviewee, Wang Song is an alias.
深度报道详见3月18日出刊的《三联生活周刊》）请戳→《三联生活周刊》新冠肺炎系列报道⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载开白请联系后台。
In-depth coverage is detailed in the March 18 issue of the magazine Triple Life Weekly's New Crown Pneumonia series. The copyright of the article belongs to the Triple Lifestyle Weekly. Welcome to your circle of friends, please contact the backstage.
未经同意，严禁转载至网站、APP等。
Do not reprint to website, APP etc. without agreement.
点击下图，下单新冠特刊「准备复工」点击阅读原文，进入周刊书店，购买【新冠肺炎专刊组合】。
Click on the image below to download the new crown special issue of Ready for Work and go to the Weekly Bookstore to buy the New Crown Pneumonia Special Issue.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
韩国防疫焦点：神秘“新天地”。
Korea epidemic prevention focus: mysterious "new world."
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "韩国防疫焦点：神秘“新天地”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; South Korea's epidemic prevention focus: & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "韩国目前新冠肺炎确诊患者累计超过7800例，其中八成属于集体感染，近六成与新天地教相关。
var msg _ desc = & quot; South Korea now has more than 7,800 confirmed cases of pneumonia, of which 80% are collective and nearly 60% are related to Xintiandi.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
