最后一道防线。
The last line of defense.
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
2月3日，武汉市洪山区驿海柏曼酒店，医生袁红在查看一名疑似患者的肺部CT，并告知病患“您目前的感染情况不严重，不要害怕”。
On February 3, doctor Yuan Hong inspects the pulmonary CT of a suspected patient at the Hongshan Hyperman Hotel in Wuhan, and tells the patient, "Your current infection is not serious. Don't be afraid."
该酒店的医生会根据疑似病患此前在医院得到的诊断，对其作大致的病情判断，并提供抗病毒、退烧的口服药。
The hotel's doctors will give a general diagnosis of the patient's condition, based on a previous diagnosis at the hospital, and offer antiviral, fever-reducing oral medication.
中青报·中青网见习记者鲁冲/摄  作者 | 马宇平 尹海月 李强编辑 | 张国在距离武汉大约500公里的湖北恩施州一个3000多人的村庄，疫情的警报1月27日突然紧迫了起来——村医刘华（化名）和妻子确诊了新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎，被当地医院收治。
Zhang Guoguo, a 3,000-strong village in Enshi, Hubei Province, about 500 kilometers from Wuhan, was rushed on January 27 when village doctor Liu Hua (not his real name) and his wife confirmed pneumonia for a new coronavirus infection and were admitted to a local hospital.
村里发出了紧急通知——自1月4日后，去过卫生室的人要立即向村委会报备。
The village issued an emergency notice that anyone who had been to the clinic after January 4 would report to the village council immediately.
紧接着，邻村也发出了同样的通知。
This was followed by similar announcements from neighbouring villages.
据村民介绍，刘华医术不错，卫生室由他和妻子经营，邻村人也会来找他看病。
According to the villagers, Liu Hua medical skill is good, by him and his wife run the health room, neighboring villages will also come to see him.
1月28日，两名戴着护目镜、穿着白色防护服的工作人员在这个卫生室门口喷洒了消毒液。
On 28 January, two staff members wearing goggles and white protective clothing sprayed disinfectant at the entrance to the clinic.
村干部的工作又增加了一项：排查到过卫生室的人。
Village officials have added another item to their work: identifying people who have been to a health clinic.
“村医感染，整个村子都很害怕，”一位村民向中国青年报·中国青年网记者说，“毕竟‘非典’没有来，这个是真来到我们村了——我家人还去过他的诊所。
"The village doctor is infected and the whole village is scared," one villager told China Youth Daily's China Youth Net. "After all, SARS did not come.
”据当地卫健委发布的信息，刘华夫妇1月12日至19日一直在坐诊，1月20日曾参加镇卫生院的培训。
Mr. and Mrs. Liu have been attending clinics from January 12 to 19 and at the township hospital on January 20, according to a report released by the local health committee.
有40余名村医参加了当天4个小时的培训和午餐。
More than 40 village doctors attended four hours of training and lunch that day.
随后，同刘华密切接触过的十几名村医被隔离观察。
Subsequently, Liu Hua had close contact with a dozen village doctors were isolated observation.
没被隔离的村医也很担心，但他们不能关门停诊。
The unquarantined village doctor was also worried, but they could not close the door.
在偏远的农村，村卫生室是抗击疫情的据点。
In remote rural areas, village health rooms are a stronghold against the epidemic.
缺乏防护物资的农村　　1月21日，刘华所在的村子接到防疫通知。
Lack of protective materials in rural areas January 21, Liu Hua's village received a vaccination notice.
那天晚上，村干部参加了全县视频会议。
That night, village cadres participated in a county videoconference.
“按照上级的要求，家家户户都通知到位，不要恐慌，人员不要走动，红白喜事都不要办。
"In accordance with the request of superiors, every household notice in place, do not panic, personnel do not move, red and white happy event do not do.
”一位村干部向记者介绍。
A village cadre introduced to reporter.
当时还未发病的村医刘华也迎来了他繁忙的时候。
Liu Hua, the village doctor who had not been ill at the time, also welcomed his busy time.
1月22日，从武汉返乡的村民按要求到卫生室登记体检，量体温，在登记卡上填上身份信息、武汉居住地等内容。
On January 22, villagers returning home from Wuhan were asked to register for a medical check-up, take their body temperature and fill in identity information and Wuhan residence on their registration cards.
全村共有141名武汉返乡者。
There are 141 Wuhan returnees in the village.
村里有人还记得刘华当时很累，“去诊所量体温的人很多，一天都排着队，他已经超负荷工作了，防护基本就是一次性口罩”。
Some villagers still remember that Liu Hua was very tired at the time. "There were a lot of people going to the clinic to take their temperature, and he was standing in line all day.
体温超过38℃的需要上报，后来这一标准改为37.4℃。
Temperature needs to be reported to be above 38oC and later changed to 37.4 ° C.
全镇每一名村医都被安排了同样的工作，另一名村医告诉记者，在这场防疫战斗中，他领到的“武器”是2支水银温度计、一包口罩、100毫升酒精。
Every village doctor in the town was given the same job, and another told reporters that he had been given two mercury thermometers, a bag of masks and 100 ml of alcohol in the battle against the epidemic.
乡村防疫物资短缺的情况并不少见。
Shortages of rural epidemic prevention materials are not uncommon.
在湖北仙桃市，两层一次性口罩、一个白大褂，就是村医陈代林抗击这次疫情的装备。
In Xiantao City, Hubei, a two-layer disposable mask, a white coat, is the village doctor Chen Dailin to fight the epidemic equipment.
前来测体温的村民穿着棉睡衣，有的没戴口罩，他们从武汉打工回来。
The villagers who came to have their temperature taken came back from Wuhan, dressed in cotton pajamas and some without masks.
林波所在的村子在河南省邓州市高集镇，距离湖北不到30公里。
Limpou's village is in Gaoji Town, Dunzhou, Henan Province, less than 30 kilometers from Hubei.
村里有几名武汉返乡人员。
There are several Wuhan returnees in the village.
他从镇卫生院领到了一次性的普通隔离衣和11只一次性口罩。
He received one-time ordinary paraphernalia and 11 disposable masks from the township clinic.
头几天，他们让返乡人员自己在家量体温然后报告。
For the first few days, they asked the returnees to take their own temperature at home and report back.
1月26日，邓州市专项监督检查组对他们进行了通报批评，要求“村医必须为隔离人员面对面量体温”，以保证数据准确。
On January 26, a special inspection team in Dunzhou criticized them for requiring "village doctors to take face-to-face temperature measurements of isolated people" to ensure the accuracy of the data.
他很担心自己被感染，“一旦被感染，就会变成移动的传染源，感染更多人，后果不堪设想。
He was worried that he would be infected, "once infected, it will become a mobile source of infection, infected more people, the consequences of unthinkable.
”为了防止家人被感染，他将自己隔离，单独在一个房间睡觉、吃饭。
To prevent his family from getting infected, he isolated himself and slept and ate in a single room.
进家前，他用仅存的250毫升酒精消毒，装在香水瓶里省着喷，还是很快用完，“我现在烧艾叶粉在家消毒。
Before entering the house, he disinfected it with the last 250 milliliters of alcohol, saved it in a perfume bottle, or ran out of it quickly.
”一次性口罩也得省着用，“两天用一个”。
Use disposable masks sparingly, "one for two days."
他们多次反映缺防护用品，但跟国内很多地区一样，“一直说没货”。
They repeatedly complained of a lack of protective equipment, but, as in many parts of the country, "always said we were out of stock."
广西桂林市全州县一位乡镇卫生院医生告诉中国青年报·中国青年网记者，镇医院每个医护人员一天发一个口罩，没有防护服和护目镜。
Guangxi Guilin City, a township hospital doctor told China Youth Daily, China Youth Net, every medical personnel in the town hospital a day issued a mask, no protective clothing and goggles.
“现在咳嗽的、发热的，村医都不敢接诊了，而且基本取消了输液，病人直接来卫生院。
"Now cough, fever, village doctors are afraid to accept, and basically cancelled the infusion, patients directly to the hospital.
”这位医生说，就算来就诊的发热患者没戴口罩，医院也没有足够的口罩能提供给患者。
The doctor said the hospital did not have enough masks for patients who came to see them, even though they were not wearing masks.
广西卫健委印发的《广西新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎医院感染预防与控制方案（试行）》要求，应配备数量充足、符合要求的消毒用品和防护用品（如医用外科口罩、医用防护口罩、护目镜、隔离衣、防护服、乳胶手套等）。
The Program of Prevention and Control of Nosocomial Infection of Guangxi New Coronavirus Infection (Trial) issued by Guangxi Wei Jian Commission requires that sufficient and qualified disinfection supplies and protective articles (such as medical surgical masks, medical face masks, goggles, protective clothing, protective clothing, latex gloves, etc.) should be provided.
医疗机构要为发热患者提供外科医用口罩。
Medical institutions should provide surgical masks for febrile patients.
河南省南阳市桐柏县中心医院向记者介绍，该院1月21日起作为新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎的定点救治医院接诊，22日开始配备防护用品。
Henan Nanyang City Tongpu County Central Hospital told reporters that the hospital as a new coronavirus infection of the targeted treatment of the hospital hospital, 22 began to be equipped with protective equipment.
直接参与疫情防控的约有七八十名医生，防护物资是一次性口罩和手术隔离衣。
There are about 780 doctors directly involved in disease prevention and control. The protective materials are disposable masks and surgical protective clothing.
江西省九江市水口村村支书高院林对记者说，村里有16个湖北返乡人员，按要求要居家隔离观察14天，都是由72岁的村医周本淮上门测量体温。
Sixteen Hubei returnees, all 72-year-old village doctor Zhou Benhuai, were asked to stay in isolation for 14 days to take their temperature, the village doctor told reporters.
迄今有8人脱离隔离期。
To date, eight have been released from isolation.
周本淮是村里唯一的医生，防护装备是一次性口罩、一个白大褂、一双手套。
Zhou Benhuai is the only doctor in the village. The protective equipment is a disposable mask, a white coat and a pair of gloves.
从1月23日投入到疫情防控工作中开始，水口村先后从乡里领了4包口罩，每包50只。
From January 23 into the prevention and control of the disease began, Shuikou village has received from the township four bags of masks, each 50.
而参加防控工作的村干部、村医、保洁员总共有几十人。
In total, there are dozens of village officials, village doctors and cleaners involved in the prevention and control work.
2月4日，武汉火神山医院，医护人员互相在防护服上写名字，以便识别。
Feb. 4, Wuhan, fire god mountain hospital, medical personnel in protective clothing on each other's names, in order to identify.
当日，火神山医院迎来首批新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎确诊患者。
On the same day, the fire god mountain hospital ushered in the first new coronavirus infection of the confirmed pneumonia.
中青报·中青网记者李峥苨/摄“现在宁可严一点，为了老百姓也不能放松”根据山东、湖北、江西、河南、广西等不同地区农村一线人员反映的情况，1月23日武汉采取封城举措后，村镇一级对疫情防控工作更加重视起来。
According to information received from frontline personnel in rural areas in Shandong, Hubei, Jiangxi, Henan and Guangxi, the prevention and control of the epidemic at the village level has been given more attention since Wuhan adopted the initiative on January 23.
除夕这天，刘华所在村庄的广播从清晨喊到天黑，进村的路被封了，村干部开车在街上巡逻，对外出的人进行劝导。
On New Year's Eve, the village radio called from dawn to dusk, the road into the village was blocked, and village cadres drove through the streets to persuade outsiders.
在隔壁镇，40台宣传车全镇巡回，防汛喇叭、广场舞音箱共计32个都被征用，近2万张宣传单塞进村民家门，交通部门指导、村民自发组织，对与外县市和乡镇相通的33余处农村公路进行了封堵。
In the next town, 40 propaganda vehicles toured the town, 32 flood-proof loudspeakers and square-dance speakers were requisitioned, nearly 20,000 leaflets were stuffed into the homes of villagers, and traffic department guides and villagers organized themselves to block more than 33 rural roads connecting cities and towns with other counties.
筛查返乡人员是农村疫情防控的重点。
Screening of returnees is the focus of rural disease prevention and control.
江西九江的水口村排查出一个去过湖北的家庭。
The village of Shuikou in Jiujiang, Jiangxi Province, searched out a family that had been to Hubei.
这家5口人1月22日上午开车去湖北孝感市探亲，下午返回，未向村里报备，最后通过摸排车牌号被查到。
The family of five drove to Hubei Xiaogan City on January 22 morning, returned in the afternoon, did not report to the village, finally through the number of the car was found out.
村干部问起时，一家人觉得没有发烧也没有其他症状，因此没必要上报。
When asked by village officials, the family felt no fever or other symptoms, so there was no need to report it.
“认识程度不够，存在侥幸心理。
"We need to know more than we need.
”高院林说。
"said the court.
1月23日晚，山东省聊城市王元村村支书王庆善来到一户村民家里确认信息。
January 23 evening, Shandong Province Liaocheng Wang Yuancun village branch Wang Qingshan came to a villager's home to confirm the information.
根据大数据追踪，这家有人1月11日从武汉返乡，此前的摸底询问中没有承认。
According to big data tracking, the family returned from Wuhan on January 11, the previous mapping did not admit.
村干部在其门口挂上了“武汉返乡人员禁止接触”的红色横幅，对他们强制隔离。
Village officials hung red banners at their gates saying "Wuhan returnees are forbidden to contact" and forcibly separated them.
村里给他们提供蔬菜和米面，他们一天两次上报体温。
They were provided with vegetables and rice noodle, and their body temperature was reported twice a day.
这样的人家不止一户。
There is more than one such household.
直到2月1日，这家人才解除了隔离。
It was not until 1 February that the family was removed from isolation.
一位乡干部向中国青年报·中国青年网记者解释：“现在宁可严一点，为了老百姓也不能放松。
"I'd rather be strict now, so people can't relax," explained a township official to China Youth Daily's China Youth Net.
”他从1月23日晚上开始参与疫情防控，一直没有休假。
He has been involved in disease control since the evening of January 23 and has not been on leave.
工作内容包括对武汉返乡人员进行监控隔离，每天上报信息，劝返外来人员，以及村里的日常消毒等。
The work includes monitoring and isolating Wuhan returnees, reporting daily information, advising outsiders and carrying out daily village disinfection.
“我们提问题你们能帮忙解决吗？”他希望通过记者表达：缺口罩、消毒液、消毒粉等物资。
"Can we ask questions that you can help solve?" he said through reporters: gap cover, disinfectant, disinfectant powder and other materials.
“还有就是希望让我们基层人员少受点委屈，因为老百姓确实有不理解的地方，我们就耐心地做工作。
"And is to let us grass-roots personnel less aggrieved, because people do not understand the place, we patiently work.
”每天在村里宣传防疫工作的王庆善也缺少物资，孩子托人给他捎来了口罩，乡里发了84消毒液和消毒粉，但是很快就会用光。
"Wang Qingshan, who publicized the disease every day in the village, also lacked supplies, and the children had entrusted him with a mask.
有人说，“中国这么大，武汉离咱很远，怕啥啦”向村民普及疫情防控知识，是村医日常工作的一部分。
Some people say, "China is so big, Wuhan is far from us, afraid of what" to spread the knowledge of disease prevention and control to villagers, is a part of the daily work of village doctors.
林波挂出横幅，提醒村民们不走亲戚、不聚餐。
Lin Bo hung banners to remind villagers not to go to relatives, do not eat.
一开始，有的村民满不在乎，“我啥没经历过，这算个事？”还有的说，“中国这么大，武汉离咱很远，怕啥啦？”1月25日，村里开始封路，村民们开始选择待在家里不出门。
At first, some villagers didn't care, "I haven't experienced anything, it's a matter?" Others said, "China is so big, Wuhan is far from us, what's the matter?" January 25, the village began to seal the road, villagers began to choose to stay at home.
林波告诉记者，有的村直接用挖掘机挖土堵路，有的人是人工挖土，放上树枝和木头，只留消防与急救通道，由专人把守。
Lin Bo told reporters that some villages dug directly with excavators blocked the road, some are dug manually, put branches and wood, only fire and emergency passageways, manned.
李天（化名）的家乡在陕西省中部农村，她觉得，直到1月26日，周围的人仍没有重视这件事。
Li Tian (not her real name), whose hometown is in rural central Shaanxi province, felt that until January 26, people around her had not paid much attention to the matter.
“拜年的走亲戚的一个接一个，一车接一车，周围人都在跑亲戚，打麻将的也一直没停过。
"One by one, carts after carts, people running around relatives, mahjong players have not stopped.
”而在1天前，包括陕西在内的26个地区启动了突发公共卫生事件Ⅰ级响应。
A day earlier, 26 regions, including Shaanxi, had launched Public Health Emergencies I responses.
官方通报已经出现了聚集性感染病例时，李天发现，村里一些人还在“大规模拜年”，都是三四十人的聚会。
When officials reported that there had been cases of conglomerate infection, Li found that some people in the village were still "visiting New Year on a large scale," a gathering of 30 or 40 people.
湖北黄冈人陆屹（化名）1月28日还看到村里有人家在办喜事，“都没戴口罩”。
Hubei Huanggang Lu Yi (alias) January 28 also saw a family in the village in the wedding, "are not wearing masks."
他很着急，“我就担心外边不戴口罩的人出去的增多，会让大多数人失去判断，觉得不严重，松懈下来。
"I was worried that the increase in the number of people outside wearing masks would make most people lose their judgment and feel less serious and relaxed.
”他希望通过中国青年报·中国青年网呼吁对农村疫情防控更加重视，“我代表农村的人谢谢你们了！”周围人防疫意识薄弱，李天更担心她的村医父亲。
"I thank you on behalf of the people in the countryside!" he said through China Youth Daily's China Youth Network, calling for more attention to rural disease prevention and control.
她父亲需要排查武汉返乡人员，“却连一次性外科口罩都未曾配备，更别说N95口罩或者更好的物资了”，而在一些山区，即使有钱也买不到防护物品。
Her father, who needed to screen Wuhan returnees, "didn't even have a disposable surgical mask, let alone a N95 mask or better," while in some mountainous areas, even money did not buy protective items.
她还担心有人会谎报情况。
She was also afraid that someone might lie about it.
近期，已有不少隐瞒者被通报，比如四川有人隐瞒武汉返回事实，致30多名医护人员密切接触。
Recently, many have been informed, such as Sichuan has been hidden back to the fact that Wuhan, more than 30 medical personnel are in close contact.
在湖北的那个村子，村医刘华确诊后，村民的防疫意识普遍增强了。
In that village in Hubei, after the diagnosis of village doctor Liu Hua, the villagers' consciousness of epidemic prevention generally increased.
村民开始四处询问“哪里能买到口罩”。
Villagers began asking everywhere "Where can I buy a mask?"
村民几乎不出家门，靠囤积的粮食和菜地自产蔬菜过日子。
Villagers barely leave their homes and live on hoarded grain and vegetable fields.
村里的微信群传着“如何用卫生纸做口罩”的视频，村民纷纷效仿，并在群里晒出了自己的作品。
Villagers emblazoned videos of "how to make a mask out of toilet paper," which they basked in the group.
林波说，没有口罩的村民只能自己想办法。
Linpo said villagers without masks had to figure out their own ways.
有的用防风棉质口罩应急，还有人戴上了给家畜打饲料时防粉尘的防护面具。
Some use wind-proof cotton masks for emergency use, while others wear dust-proof face masks for animal feed.
72岁的村医周本淮每天要走近10公里的路，但因为村医工资待遇低，愿意接班的年轻人少，只能由老村医顶着。
The 72-year-old village doctor, Zhou Benghuai, has to travel nearly 10 kilometers a day, but because village doctors are poorly paid, fewer young people are willing to take over and can only be covered by old village doctors.
村医后继乏人是普遍现象。
Village medicine is a common phenomenon.
2003年“非典”发生时，周本淮也负责给返乡人员量体温，但当时是春季，返乡人员少。
When SARS broke out in 2003, Zhou Benhuai was also responsible for taking the temperature of the returnees, but it was spring and there were few returnees.
他感到，这次恰逢春节，不仅发病率高、传播快，影响人数也多。
He felt that this Spring Festival, not only a high incidence, rapid spread, also affect the number of people.
当年是他一个人走访，现在村干部会陪他逐一入户排查。
When he visited alone, now the village cadre will accompany him one by one house check.
聚集打牌的村民一旦被发现，将上报给派出所。
Villagers who gather to play cards are reported to the police station as soon as they are found.
乡里从古至今的唱大戏活动也取消了。
The old-time singing in the country has also been cancelled.
他认为，“这次更重视。
"This time it's more important," he says.
”周本淮觉得，自己只是做了力所能及的事情。
Zhou Benhuai felt that he had only done what was within his power.
他也担心会被感染，但他是“医务工作者”，只能冲在前面。
He, too, feared infection, but he was a "medical worker" and had to run ahead.
他只希望，这次疫情能尽早结束。
He only hoped that the outbreak would end as soon as possible.
中国青年报·中青在线出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
China Youth Daily Zhongqing online products micro-letter editor & # 45; Chen Yi male thinks good-looking please click here.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
最后一道防线。
The last line of defense.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "最后一道防线";。
var msg _ title = & quot; last line of defence & quot;;
var msg_desc = "有的人用防风棉质口罩应急，还有人戴上了给家畜打饲料时防粉尘的防护面具";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; some emergency with a wind-resistant cotton mask; and others with a dust-proof face mask used to feed livestock.;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
