蓝天救援队员车祸背后。
Blue sky rescue team car accident behind.
赵孟。
Zhao Meng.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国记者｜赵孟“ “认真对待志愿服务，尤其是志愿者的权利，既是善待志愿者，同时也是善待所有因志愿服务而受益或即将受益的公众，更是善待我们的社会和未来。
2007-9-25 21: 48 "Take volunteering, especially the rights of volunteers, seriously, not only as a good friend to volunteers, but also to all those who benefit or will benefit from it, but also to our society and our future.
””“孩子要乖，爸爸去武汉打怪兽！”在微信朋友写下这句话11天后，苏州蓝天救援队队员许鹏在运送物资支援武汉“抗疫”途中，遭遇车祸罹难。
"The child must be good, the father to Wuhan hit monster!" 11 days after the Weixin friends wrote this sentence, Suzhou blue sky rescue team member Xu Peng, in the delivery of supplies to support the Wuhan "anti-epidemic" road accident victims.
此次抗击新冠肺炎疫情中，蓝天救援队出动的救援队员有五六百人，他们都是没有报酬的民间志愿者。
In the battle against the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic, the blue sky rescue team called in five or six hundred people, all of them unpaid civilian volunteers.
与他们一样，忙碌在武汉各个社区的普通志愿者，有数万人之多。
Like them, there are tens of thousands of ordinary volunteers working in Wuhan communities.
这些活跃的民间力量，为封城后的武汉社区继续运转起到了不可替代的作用。
These active civil forces, for the post-closure Wuhan community to continue to function played an irreplaceable role.
北京大学非营利组织法研究中心主任金锦萍撰文指出，志愿服务能够填补因市场失灵和政府失灵而导致的缺憾，扩大社会公共福利的能量。
Jin Jinping, director of the Center for Nonprofit Organizations Studies at Peking University, argues that volunteerism can fill the gap created by market failures and government failures and expand the power of social public welfare.
在历次救灾行动和此次公共卫生事件应对中，志愿服务已经因为其灵活性、贴近个体、及时发现并填补盲区等特点难以替代。
Volunteerism has been difficult to substitute for its flexibility, closeness to individuals, timely detection and filling of gaps in response to disaster relief operations and public health events.
但鲜为人知的是，这群庞大的“公益游侠”，却长期处于保险不足的尴尬状态。
But little is known about the group of huge "pro bono", but the long-term underinsured state of embarrassment.
志愿服务中一旦发生意外，志愿者往往只能利用公开募捐和申请荣誉称号的途径，来争取救治或给家属的抚恤。
In the event of an accident in volunteer service, volunteers often have to resort to public fund-raising and claims for honorary titles to seek relief or compensation for their families.
早在2013年，民政部就制定的《中国社会服务志愿者队伍建设指导纲要（2013-2020年）》，提出推动建立志愿者保险制度，明确志愿者保险的责任主体、涉险范围和风险承担机制。
As early as 2013, the Ministry of Civil Affairs formulated the Guiding Outline for Building a Volunteer Corps of Social Service in China (2013-2020), proposing to promote the establishment of a volunteer insurance system and to clarify the responsible subjects, risk areas and risk-bearing mechanisms of volunteer insurance.
但落实效果并不理想。
However, implementation has not been satisfactory.
3月5日，民政部和腾讯公益慈善基金会联合启动“志愿者、社区工作者、社会工作者和湖北省养老机构工作者关爱保障行动”，对全国参加疫情防控的各类志愿者免费提供专项保险保障，重症危重症患者将获得5万元保障，身故者将获得25万元保障。
On March 5, the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Tencent Public Welfare Foundation jointly launched the "Care and Guarantee Action for Volunteers, Community Workers, Social Workers and Workers of Elderly Institutions in Hubei Province," which provides free special insurance for all volunteers participating in epidemic prevention and control nationwide.
这让参与此次“抗疫”服务的民间志愿者感到安慰。
This is to participate in the "anti-epidemic" service civilian volunteers feel relieved.
公益人士认为，这种临时性的政策亟需制度化，以便在未来志愿者服务中，更好的保障志愿者权利，让志愿精神得以存续。
The pro bono view is that such ad hoc policies need to be institutionalized in order to better safeguard the rights of volunteers and to sustain volunteerism in the service of future volunteers.
许鹏参与救援任务前，按照蓝天救援队的规定，正式队员必须购买一份560元的年度救援险，死亡最高赔偿80万元。
Before participating in the rescue mission, Xu Peng, according to the blue sky rescue team, official members must purchase a 560 yuan annual rescue insurance, death compensation of up to 800,000 yuan.
此外，许鹏帮助运输的物资由中华慈善总会负责，该会也为他投了一份保险。
In addition, Xu Peng helped transport the goods by the General Charity Federation of China, which also insured him.
目前，蓝天救援队正在协助许鹏申报烈士。
At present, blue sky rescue team is assisting Xu Peng to declare martyrs.
“公益游侠”不可缺2020年春节前，许鹏和好友李晨约定，春节后到他们合作的刺青工作室聚会。
"Pro bono ranger" can not be indispensable before the 2020 Spring Festival, Xu Peng and good friend Li Chen, after the Spring Festival to their tattoo studio to meet.
2月5日，李晨给许鹏打电话，让他第二天到店里相聚，但许鹏告诉他，自己已到武汉参加救援了。
On February 5, Li Chen called Xu Peng and asked him to meet at the store the next day, but Xu Peng told him that he had arrived in Wuhan to join the rescue.
李晨一直留着珍藏多年的好酒等许鹏回到苏州再喝，但半个月后，他等到的是许鹏遇难的消息。
Li Chen has been holding the long-cherished good wine, such as Xu Peng back to Suzhou to drink, but half a month later, he was waiting for the news of Xu Peng's death.
2月21日凌晨，许鹏从山东运送防疫物资到武汉，在梁山县境内遭遇车祸身亡，年仅39岁。
February 21, Xu Peng from Shandong Province to transport epidemic prevention materials to Wuhan, in Liangshan County was killed in a car accident, only 39 years old.
李晨告诉界面新闻，许鹏在没加入蓝天救援队之前，一向乐于助人，但一直没有找到“组织”。
Li Chen told the interface news, Xu Peng did not join the blue sky rescue team, has always been helpful, but has not found "organization."
像他这样的性格，一旦找到“组织”，便会“一发不可收拾”。
A character like him, once found "organization," will be "out of control."
李晨是许鹏的大学好友，当年他们一起组建过乐队，许鹏是主唱，李晨是鼓手。
Li Chen is Xu Peng's university friend, when they formed a band together, Xu Peng is the lead singer, Li Chen is the drummer.
在李晨的记忆中，许鹏为人仗义，多才多艺。
In Li Chen's memory, Xu Peng is a generous and versatile person.
许鹏的故乡江苏大丰县，正好是《水浒传》作者施耐庵的故乡，朋友们觉得他“就像梁山好汉”。
Xu Peng's hometown of Jiangsu Dafeng County, just "Water Margin" author Shi Na-an's hometown, friends feel he "like Liang Shan good man."
有一次，许鹏和李晨等朋友去西藏，车上遇到一名男子与一位女乘务员起冲突，争吵即将演变成打斗。
Once, Xu Peng and Li Chen and other friends went to Tibet, the car met a man and a stewardess conflict, the quarrel is about to become a fight.
其他乘客都默不作声，这时许鹏站起来，一把将这名男子放倒在地。
The other passengers were silent, when Xu Peng stood up and put the man on the ground.
许鹏的举动也获得了回报，那次他们的行李不巧忘在车上，这位乘务员很快帮他们寻找送回。
Xu Peng's move was rewarded when their luggage was accidentally left in the car, and the flight attendant quickly helped them find their way back.
还有一次，在上海迪士尼乐园，一名男子旁若无人的插队，许鹏上前劝阻，对方起初不听，许鹏就给他讲道理。
Another time, in Shanghai Disneyland, a man standing aloof to jump the queue, Xu Peng to dissuade, the other party did not listen at first, Xu Peng told him reason.
“最后说得旁边人都鼓掌了。
"At last the others applauded.
”李晨说，最后这名男子只能灰溜溜离去。
"Li Chen said the man ended up walking away in frustration.
有一年，许鹏和几个朋友自驾游去西部某地，正好碰到蓝天救援队在此展开救援行动，有一批物资无法送达，许鹏便用自己的越野车帮忙送到。
One year, Xu Peng and some friends drove to a place in the west, just when the blue sky rescue team launched a rescue operation there, a batch of goods could not arrive, Xu Peng used his SUV to help deliver.
这成了改变许鹏人生轨迹的契机。
This has become a chance to change Xu Peng's life trajectory.
2016年前后，许鹏加入江苏蓝天救援队，很快从志愿者变成预备队员，正式队员，不到40岁的他，还被提拔为蓝天救援队机动队队长。
Around 2016, Xu Peng joined the Jiangsu Blue Sky Rescue Team, quickly changing from a volunteer to a reservist, regular member, and under the age of 40 he was promoted to captain of the mobile team of the Blue Sky Rescue Team.
李晨曾听许鹏戏称，“救援是个无底洞”，“一亿富翁变千万富翁，百万富翁变十万富翁”，但他仍然乐此不疲。
Li Chen once heard Xu Peng joke, "rescue is a bottomless hole," "100 million millionaires become millionaires, millionaires become 100 million rich," but he still enjoys it.
作为一家社会组织，全国的蓝天救援队成员超过5万名，这些成员分正式队员、预备队员和志愿者三级。
As a social organization, the blue sky rescue team has more than 50,000 members, including regular, reserve and volunteer members.
不管是正式队员，预备队员还是志愿者，他们与蓝天救援队之间并无合同等隶属关系，在法律意义上都属于志愿者，参照《志愿者服务条例》管理。
Whether regular members, reservists or volunteers, there is no contractual relationship between them and the Blue Sky Rescue Team. They are volunteers in the legal sense and are governed by the Volunteer Service Ordinance.
许鹏和李晨等朋友曾合开了一家刺青工作室，加入蓝天救援队后，许鹏便很少顾及工作室的事。
Xu Peng and Li Chen and other friends had a joint tattoo studio, joined the blue sky rescue team, Xu Peng little regard for the studio.
他的身影曾出现在阜宁风灾、广元沉船、玉树雪灾等等事故现场。
His shadow appeared in the Fu Ning wind disaster, Guangyuan shipwreck, Yushu snowstorm and other accident scene.
甚至还被派往西藏可可西里、缅甸、老挝等执行任务。
He was even sent on missions to Cocosilli, Myanmar, Laos and other places in Tibet.
蓝天救援队有一位南京的成员，从小是一名孤儿，这个团队让他发现了自己的价值，几乎将自己所有收入都献给了救援队。
Blue Sky had a Nanjing member who was an orphan when he was a child. The team let him discover his value and devoted almost all his income to the rescue team.
许鹏在蓝天救援队的同事蔡超说，蓝天救援队的人喜欢自嘲是“疯子”，救援所有开支都需要自己承担，但还是有人源源不断申请加入，“还是真的喜欢帮助人，觉得内心快乐吧。
Xu's colleague from the Blue Sky Rescue Team, Cai Chao, said the blue sky rescuers liked to laugh at themselves as "crazy" and had to bear all the expenses to save themselves.
”北京大学非营利组织法研究中心主任金锦萍曾撰文指出，价值敏感度高的人一旦卷入公益事业，便惊讶地发现自己迅速成为“公益游侠”，激发出极大的潜能，可以不眠不休还精神抖擞，支撑他们的便是志愿精神。
Jin Jinping, director of the Research Center for Non-Profit Organizations at Peking University, wrote that high-value people, once involved in public works, are surprised to find themselves quickly becoming "pro bono rangers," unleashing a vast potential that can be sustained by the spirit of volunteerism.
金锦萍说，志愿服务是承担公共责任的公众参与行为，而对于社会责任的主动自愿的担当恰是公民意识的觉醒。
Jin Jinping said that voluntary service is a public participation behavior with public responsibility, and the voluntary responsibility of social responsibility is the awakening of civic consciousness.
在历次救灾行动和此次公共卫生事件应对中，志愿服务已经因为其灵活性、贴近个体、及时发现并填补盲区等特色引起关注，彰显其难以替代的功能。
In past disaster relief operations and this public health response, volunteerism has attracted attention for its flexibility, closeness to individuals, timely detection and filling blind spots, highlighting its irreplaceable functions.
2008年汶川地震吹响了志愿者的集结号，“历史上从来没有一个时刻，让我们如梦初醒地意识到我们身处的这个社会，有那么多秉承良知、诚心和责任，愿意以自身知识、体能、劳力、经验、技术、时间等贡献社会的人。
Wenchuan earthquake in 2008 sounded the collection of volunteers, "history has never been a moment, let us wake up to realize that we live in a society with conscience, sincerity and responsibility, willing to use their knowledge, physical, labor, experience, technology, time and so on to contribute to society.
”主动涉险投保难实际上，救援作为一种主动涉险行为，风险较高，一直不在保险公司的险种涵盖范围内。
In fact, as an active risk-related behavior, rescue is more risky and has not been covered by insurance companies.
身处险境却无保险保障，成为“公益游侠”们长期以来的“隐痛”。
In danger but no insurance protection, to become "pro bono rangers" for a long time "pain."
西部某省蓝天救援队负责人黄浩告诉界面新闻，救援队员缺乏保险有两方面原因，一是保险公司针对救援队员的险种不足；二是救援队因资金或管理等原因，对购买保险执行不到位。
Huang Hao, head of the blue sky rescue team in a western province, told the interface news that the lack of insurance for rescue workers was due to two factors: the lack of insurance coverage by insurance companies for rescue workers, and the lack of implementation of insurance policies by rescue teams for financial or administrative reasons.
尤其在蓝天救援队成立初期，“几乎都是在‘裸奔’。
Especially in the early days of the blue sky rescue team, "almost all in the 'nude run'.
”黄浩原来是一名媒体人，2008年参与512地震报道的经历，改变了他的人生轨迹，他发现与其用笔写文章间接推动问题解决，不如自己直接组织力量参与其中。
Huang Hao, a former media man whose experience working on the 512 earthquake in 2008 changed his life's trajectory, found that instead of writing articles that indirectly promote problem-solving, he would be better off organizing himself directly.
于是，他加入刚刚成立不久的蓝天救援队，成为最早一批蓝天救援队成员。
So he joined the newly established Blue Sky Rescue Team and became one of the first blue sky rescue team members.
2008年，民间救援属于新事物，并没有针对普通志愿者救援行为的险种。
In 2008, folk rescue is a new thing, and there is no insurance against the rescue of ordinary volunteers.
一些蓝天救援队成员参加救援时，只能自己购买普通的人身意外险，但有关保险法规规定，主动涉险不在赔付的范围内，“买了也很难获得赔偿”。
Some blue sky rescue team members can only participate in the rescue, can only buy their own ordinary personal accident insurance, but the relevant insurance laws and regulations, active risk is not covered by the scope of compensation, "buy also very difficult to obtain compensation.
随着近些年各类自然灾害频发，让蓝天救援队名声日隆，救援队“裸奔”的状态引发关注。
With the frequent occurrence of all kinds of natural disasters in recent years, blue sky rescue team reputation is rising, rescue team "naked elope" status caused concern.
2013年，民政部制定的《中国社会服务志愿者队伍建设指导纲要（2013-2020年）》提出，推动建立志愿者保险制度，明确志愿者保险的责任主体、涉险范围和风险承担机制。
In 2013, the Guidelines for Building a Volunteer Corps of Social Service in China (2013-2020), formulated by the Ministry of Civil Affairs, proposed to promote the establishment of a volunteer insurance system to clarify the responsible subjects, risk areas and risk-bearing mechanisms of volunteer insurance.
2015年前后，一家保险公司新增了一种针对救援队员小额险种，出任务时临时购买，保费每天3元，按日计算，遭遇死亡最高赔付10万元。
Around 2015, an insurance company added a new type of microinsurance for rescue team members to buy temporarily while on mission, at a premium of $3 per day, with a maximum death payment of $100,000.
多位蓝天救援队员表示，这一险种的赔付“聊胜于无”，他们并没有期待这份保险给自己带来安心，只能在救援过程中“自求多福”。
Blue sky rescue team members said the payment of this insurance is "better than nothing", they did not expect the insurance to bring peace of mind, can only in the rescue process "more than blessing."
黄浩曾就救援队员无法购买保险一事，找到有关部门反映，有关领导曾召集该省保险协会人士与救援队员们开了一次协调会。
Huang Hao on the rescue team was unable to buy insurance, the relevant departments reported that the leadership of the provincial insurance association and the rescue team convened a coordination meeting.
保险公司人员在会上表示，将争取新增适合救援队员的险种，“但后来还是不了了之。
Insurers at the meeting said they would try to add a new type of insurance that would be suitable for rescue teams, but it didn't work out.
”最近几年，一些保险公司增设了针对民间救援队的救援险，但保费都在数千元。
In recent years, some insurance companies have increased their coverage for civilian rescue teams, but the premiums are in the thousands.
2019年初，一家保险公司针对蓝天救援队新增了一种额度较大的年度救援险，每年缴纳保费560元，遭遇死亡最高赔付80万元。
In early 2019, an insurance company added a larger annual rescue plan for blue sky rescue teams, paying 560 yuan a year and paying up to 800,000 yuan in death compensation.
蓝天救援队全国总队长张勇告诉界面新闻，按照蓝天救援队的统一要求，蓝天救援队的所有正式队员、预备队员和志愿者，参与救援时都应该购买保险。
In accordance with the unified request of the blue sky rescue team, all official members of the blue sky rescue team, reserve members and volunteers should take out insurance when taking part in the rescue work.
但蓝天救援队属于“品牌授权”模式，全国各地的蓝天救援队都独立运作，总队与地方救援队并不是领导关系，保险费用具体由谁购买，以及购买多大额度，决定权仍在各个救援队。
But the blue sky rescue team belongs to the "brand authorization" mode, the blue sky rescue teams all over the country are independent operation, the general team and the local rescue team is not the leadership of the relationship, insurance costs by specific who purchase, and the amount of purchase, the decision-making power remains with the rescue teams.
界面新闻了解到，在许鹏所在的苏州蓝天救援队，要求每位正式队员自行购买年度救援险，预备队员和志愿者不做购买年度保险的要求，他们往往只购买了每天3元钱的临时新救援险。
Interface News understands that in Xu Peng's Suzhou blue sky rescue team, each official member is required to buy their own annual rescue insurance. Reserve members and volunteers do not have to pay annual insurance requirements, they often only buy three yuan a day of temporary new rescue insurance.
按照蓝天救援队的规定，只有身着蓝衣服的正式队员才能参加救援，预备队员只能做些“辅助性工作”，“相当于培训”，有时候也要去救援现场，一旦发生意外，临时救援队和志愿者获得的赔偿较低。
According to the blue sky rescue team, only the official wearing blue clothes can participate in the rescue, the reserve team can only do "auxiliary work," "equivalent to training," and sometimes to the rescue scene, in the event of an accident, temporary rescue teams and volunteers receive lower compensation.
并非所有救援队都像江苏蓝天救援队这样要求正式队员都必须购买年度救援险。
Not all rescue teams, like the Jiangsu Blue Rescue Team, require regular members to buy annual rescue insurance.
2019年8月月，深圳蓝天救援队队员许挺秀和尹起贺在救助受困驴友时，突遇溪水暴涨与大部队脱离后不幸遇难。
August 2019, Shenzhen blue sky rescue team members Xu Xiu Xiu and Yin Jiehe rescue stranded donkey friends, suddenly encountered the river surge and major forces after the death.
一位参与处理后事的蓝天救援队成员透露，二人都未购买年度救援险，仅购买了每天3元的保险，家属只能获得10万元保险赔偿。
One Blue Sky team member involved in the handling of the matter revealed that neither had purchased annual rescue insurance, only three yuan a day insurance, family members can only get 100,000 yuan insurance compensation.
“幸好他们的父母都很通情达理，如果坚持问救援队为什么不给孩子买保险，我们就难办了。
"Luckily their parents were very reasonable and it would have been difficult for us to insist on asking the rescue team why they didn't have insurance for their children.
”这位人士说。
'said the man.
社区志愿者的爱与忧在此次疫情中，除了蓝天救援队这样专业性较强的志愿者队伍，活跃在武汉各个社区的普通志愿者有数万人，他们在封城期间为武汉市民生活的正常运转起到关键作用，但他们的保险问题少有关注。
In addition to the blue sky rescue team, which is a professional volunteer corps, tens of thousands of ordinary volunteers active in Wuhan communities played a key role in the normal operation of life in Wuhan during the period of the ban.
2月23日，武汉市启动“志愿服务关爱行动”，在全市范围内专项招募志愿者，服务内容主要为在小区内为居民提供食品药品代购代送等。
On February 23, Wuhan launched the "Volunteer Service Care Campaign," a citywide campaign to recruit volunteers to provide food and medicines to residents in small districts.
当地媒体报道，招募通知发出3天后，报名人数突破5万。
Local media reported that three days after the announcement, the number of applicants exceeded 50,000.
武汉市“志愿服务关爱行动”志愿者招募通知要求，武汉市区防控指挥部和各区文明办为志愿者开展工作提供必要的防护保障和工作保障，交管部门和各区为志愿者开展志愿服务活动提供通行证件。
The Wuhan Municipal Command of Prevention and Control and the Civilization Office of each district are required to provide the necessary protection and job security for volunteers to carry out their work, and the traffic control departments and districts provide permits for volunteers to volunteer.
2月26日，武汉市龙城社区居民李博通过社区报名，成为一名志愿者。
February 26, Wuhan Longcheng community resident Li Bo through the community registration, become a volunteer.
他的工作是帮助不能外出社区内居民“跑腿”，偶尔也在小区巡逻，劝导出门活动的市民不要逗留太久。
His job is to help residents who cannot leave the community "errands," and occasionally patrol the neighborhood, advising people not to stay out too long.
龙城社区较大，招募了数百名志愿者，其中有一部分是李博这样的自由职业者，以前从未做过志愿者，对志愿者的义务和权利都不甚了解，“安排什么就干什么。
The Longcheng community is large, employing hundreds of volunteers, some of them freelancers like Li Bo, who have never been volunteers before and have little understanding of the duties and rights of volunteers.
”龙城社区一位工作人员称，暂时没有为志愿者购买保险的计划，“志愿者就是不求回报的帮助别人，如果你有什么要求，建议先不参加。
For now, there is no plan to buy insurance for volunteers, a staff member of Longcheng community said. "Volunteers simply don't ask for rewards to help others, and if you have any requests, are advised to stay away.
”实际上，疫情发生后，多家保险公司也针对性的增加了针对新冠肺炎的险种，或在原来的意外险中，将感染新冠肺炎纳入保险范围内。
In fact, after the outbreak, many insurance companies increased their coverage for new crown pneumonia or, in the case of the original accident, for new crown pneumonia.
但志愿者组织方和志愿者本人，缺乏主动保险的意识。
But volunteer organizations and volunteers themselves lack awareness of active insurance.
李博每天三班轮换，食宿自理，没有报酬，也没有保险。
Li Bo rotates three shifts a day, living on his own, without pay or insurance.
但他安全意识较高，出门服务前一天，瞒着家人花了68元钱，购买了一份涵盖新冠肺炎的意外险，最高赔付20万元。
But he had a high level of safety awareness and the day before he went out to work, he paid his family 68 yuan for an accident covering his new crown pneumonia, with a maximum payment of $200,000.
其他的志愿者，许多人并没有去购买保险。
Other volunteers, many of whom did not take out insurance.
除武汉以外，湖北其他地市也招募大量志愿者为社区服务。
In addition to Wuhan, other cities in Hubei also recruit a large number of volunteers to serve the community.
王政是湖北随州一个社区的志愿者，已经服务了半个多月，这里人手紧张，他需要随时待命。
Wang Zheng is a volunteer in a community in Suizhou, Hubei Province. He has served for more than half a month.
王政自己没有保险，“我们是志愿者，也不好意思提这些要求。
Wang Zheng has no insurance of his own. "We are volunteers, and we are not ashamed to ask these questions.
”最初几天物资紧张，李博每天只能领到一只口罩和一双手套，后来才给了他发一些消毒液。
In the first few days, when supplies were tight, he was given only one mask and a pair of gloves a day before he was given some disinfectant.
他每天准备两套衣服，在外服务期间穿一套，回家进门前脱掉，再换上另一套，然后再用消毒液反复洗手。
He prepared two suits of clothes a day, put them on during the service, took them off before going home, changed into another suit, and then washed his hands again and again with disinfectant.
“志愿服务手册”要求他们不接触可能携带病毒的人群，但风险仍然无法绝对避免。
The Voluntary Service Manual requires them not to come into contact with people who may be carrying the virus, but the risk is still not absolute.
有一次，小区一位老人不小心将手割破，需要送到医院救治。
Once, an old man cut his hand carelessly and needed to be taken to hospital for treatment.
“人们都害怕去医院，那里是高危地区。
"People are afraid to go to hospitals, which are high-risk areas.
”李博说，一番思想挣扎后，他和另外几名志愿者一起，将伤者送到了医院。
After struggling with his thoughts, Li said he joined several other volunteers to take the injured to hospital.
“当时确实害怕，你不知道有没有发热病人。
"It was really scary. You didn't know if there was a feverish patient.
”李博说，到医院门口，他犹豫要不要进去，最终还是陪同伤者办完所有手续。
At the hospital gate, Mr. Li said, hesitating whether to go in, eventually escorted the injured through all the formalities.
付账时，老人才发现自己忘记带钱，准备联系妻子将钱送来。
Pay the bill, the old man found that he forgot to bring money, ready to contact his wife to send money.
李博为了让他家人减少暴露风险，自己帮他垫付了。
To help his family reduce the risk of exposure, he paid for it himself.
没过几天，社区另一位正在巡查的志愿者，突然倒地昏迷，大家赶紧将其送到医院，庆幸并不大碍，只是食物中毒。
A few days later, another volunteer was on patrol in the community and fell into a coma. They rushed him to the hospital. Fortunately, he had food poisoning.
医生提醒李博，回到家不仅要用消毒液洗手，还要用沾酒精的棉球，在鼻孔和耳朵里“转一转”。
Doctors told him to "walk" through his nostrils and ears, using not only disinfectant to wash his hands, but also cotton balls soaked in alcohol.
李博这时才意识到，他低估了做志愿者的风险。
Li Bo then realized that he underestimated the risk of volunteering.
武汉市“志愿服务关爱行动”志愿者招募通知要求，凡累积服务时长达到规定时间的志愿者，获得相应级别的“志愿服务证书”，表现突出者在全市各类优秀志愿者推选中优先考虑。
Volunteers who have accumulated a specified amount of service for a specified period of time will be awarded a certificate of volunteer service at the appropriate level, with outstanding performance being given priority in the selection of outstanding volunteers of all kinds in the city.
“对我这种自由职业者意义不大，”李博说，“我们想法很简单，就是力所能及的帮大家做点事。
"It doesn't mean a lot to freelancers like me," he says. "We have a simple idea that we can do something for you.
”他唯一的愿望是疫情早日结束，自己平安无事。
His only hope was that the outbreak would end soon and he would be safe.
善待志愿者是善待社会和未来金锦萍认为，志愿者参与的虽是公益服务，但同样享有一些权利，这包括获得与志愿服务活动相关信息的权利；接受培训的权利；获得参加志愿服务活动必要的物质保障和安全保障的权利；以及获得志愿服务组织为其购买保险的权利。
Volunteer participation is a public good, but also a number of rights, including the right to receive information related to volunteer activities; the right to training; the right to material security and safety necessary to participate in volunteer activities; and the right to be insured by voluntary organizations.
金锦萍说，志愿者的这些权利体现在相关立法中，同时需要在志愿者招募说明和志愿服务协议中予以明确。
The rights of volunteers are enshrined in relevant legislation and need to be spelled out in job descriptions and voluntary service agreements, Jin said.
大量志愿者参活跃在社区服务中，引起了民政部门的注意。
A large number of volunteers participate in community service, attracted the attention of the civil affairs departments.
3月5日，中国志愿者日当天，民政部和腾讯公益慈善基金会联合启动“志愿者、社区工作者、社会工作者和湖北省养老机构工作者关爱保障行动”。
On March 5, China Volunteers' Day, the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Tencent Charity Foundation jointly launched the "Care and Guarantee Action for Volunteers, Community Workers, Social Workers and Workers of Elderly Institutions in Hubei Province."
该政策对全国参加疫情防控的志愿者、社区工作者、社会工作者和湖北省养老机构工作者提供专项保险保障，符合条件的人员可在线发申请领取，若感染新冠肺炎，重症危重症患者将获得5万元保障，身故者将获得25万元保障。
The policy provides special insurance coverage for volunteers, community workers, social workers and workers in institutions in Hubei Province who participate in the prevention and control of the epidemic. Eligible people can apply for it online.
这让参与此次疫情服务的志愿者感到安慰。
This was a comfort to volunteers involved in the epidemic.
但黄浩认为，这种临时性的政策亟需制度化，以便在未来常规的志愿者服务过程中，志愿者的正当权利能得到保障。
But Huang believes that this temporary policy needs to be institutionalized so that the legitimate rights of volunteers can be safeguarded in the future of regular volunteer service.
按照2017年出台的《志愿者服务条例》规定，“志愿服务组织安排志愿者参与可能发生人身危险的志愿服务活动前，应当为志愿者购买相应的人身意外伤害保险。
According to the Regulation on Volunteer Service, which came into force in 2017, "voluntary service organizations shall purchase personal accident insurance for volunteers before arranging volunteer participation in volunteer activities that may pose a personal risk.
”这意味着，为志愿者购买保险的责任主体，在志愿服务组织。
That means buying insurance for volunteers is the subject of responsibility in volunteer organizations.
但在具体落实中，规定与现实存在差距。
But in the concrete implementation, the stipulation and the reality exist the gap.
黄浩说，许多像蓝天救援队一样的民公益组织，没有固定收入，偶尔有一些企业捐赠，或帮助其他机构培训获得收入，但负担不起所有人的保险。
Many nonprofit organizations like Blue Sky have no fixed income, occasionally donate money or help other organizations train to earn income but cannot afford insurance for everyone, Mr. Huang said.
“如果要求队员自己购买，又不一定人人都做得到。
"If you ask your team members to buy it for themselves, not everyone will do it.
”他说。
'he said.
长江志愿救援队也面临类似问题。
The Yangtze volunteer rescue team faces similar problems.
该队负责保险事务的蔡女士告诉界面新闻，由于专门的救援险价格普遍较高，他们只能为救援队购买普通的意外险，一旦遭遇意外，是否能获得满意赔偿存在变数。
Cai, who oversees insurance, told the Interface News that because of the generally high cost of specialized rescue insurance, they can only buy common accident insurance for rescue teams, and whether they can obtain satisfactory compensation in the event of an accident.
长江救援队没有收入，保险费用只能依靠企业赞助。
Changjiang rescue team has no income, insurance costs can only rely on corporate sponsorship.
蔡女士说，有些人经济状况不好，但对公益很热心，而且有救援技能，不能拒绝他们加入救援队，仅仅依靠企业赞助购买保险难以确保救援队稳定运转。
Ms. Cai said some people are in bad financial circumstances, but are keen on the public interest and have rescue skills. They cannot be turned away from rescue teams, and it is difficult to ensure their stability by relying solely on corporate sponsorship to buy insurance.
中央财经大学保险学院教授徐晓华认为，组织方为志愿者购买保险是“天经地义”的，对于组织方没有能力负担庞大的保费等问题，他建议可寻找有关部委和国有保险公司，争取打破常规给予支持。
Xu Xiaohua, a professor at the College of Insurance at the Central University of Finance and Economics, said it was "natural" for the organizers to buy insurance for volunteers and suggested looking for ministries and state-owned insurance companies to break with the norm and give them support.
徐晓华告诉界面新闻，疫情发生后，各部委都出台应对疫情的政策，“哪一个不是打破常规的？”他介绍，中国的福利和救助体系比较完善，人社部和应急管理部都有相应资金储备，工伤保险账户结余也比较大。
Xu told the Interface News that after the outbreak, all ministries had policies to deal with the epidemic, "which is not a break with the norm?" He said China's welfare and relief system was relatively complete, the Ministry of People's Affairs and the Ministry of Emergency Management had corresponding funds reserves, and industrial injury insurance accounts had large balances.
特殊情况下要“敢想”，才能灵活发挥这些资金的用途。
In exceptional cases, "think big" is the way to use the money flexibly.
他甚至建议，可将志愿者纳入工伤标准来处理。
He even suggested that volunteers could be included in work injury standards.
北京市炜衡（南京）律师事务所律师封顶认为，志愿服务发达与否能够体现社会文明程度和治理水平，如果将政府和NGO（非政府组织）视为社会服务的常备军，那么广大志愿者则堪称后备军。
Lawyers at Beijing's Wei Heng (Nanjing) Law Firm believe that the development of voluntary service can reflect the level of civilization and governance, and that if the government and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) are regarded as a standing army of social services, then the vast majority of volunteers can serve as a reserve force.
政府和NGO人手有限，一旦发生疫情、地震这样的重大事件，志愿者的作用更不可替代。
The government and NGOs have limited manpower, once the outbreak of major events such as earthquakes, the role of volunteers is even more irreplaceable.
“志愿者服务不计报酬，但不意味着我们的社会、政府可以无视其所冒的风险。
"Volunteer service is unpaid, but it doesn't mean our society, our government, can ignore the risks.
”封顶说，以本次疫情为例，如果政府根据法律或临时性政策招募志愿者，补充行政力量的不足，为志愿者提供保险和其他必要保障，就是政府的责任。
In the current outbreak, for example, it is the government's responsibility to recruit volunteers to supplement the administration and provide them with insurance and other necessary guarantees, according to the government's laws or temporary policies.
而据《志愿者服务条例》，为志愿者提供相应的保障构成政府的行政给付义务。
According to the Regulations on Volunteer Service, providing corresponding guarantee for volunteers constitutes the administrative payment obligation of the government.
黄浩提到，《志愿者服务条例》规定，“县级以上人民政府应当将志愿服务事业纳入国民经济和社会发展规划，合理安排志愿服务所需资金，促进广覆盖、多层次、宽领域开展志愿服务。
"People's governments at or above the county level should include the cause of volunteerism in their national economic and social development plans, rationally allocate the funds needed for voluntary service, and promote volunteerism in a wide range of areas, at different levels and in a wide range of fields," he said.
”在江西一些地方，政府每年为当地蓝天救援队提供50个人的保费支持，但在许多欠发达地方，志愿者们只能“自力更生”。
In some parts of Jiangxi, the government provides 50 people a year for local blue sky rescue teams, but in many underdeveloped areas volunteers are left to fend for themselves.
（应受访者要求，文中黄浩、李博和王政为化名）未经授权 禁止转载。
(At the request of the interviewee, Huang Hao, Li Bo and Wang Zhengwei are prohibited from reprinting without authorization.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
蓝天救援队员车祸背后。
Blue sky rescue team car accident behind.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "蓝天救援队员车祸背后";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "“认真对待志愿服务，尤其是志愿者的权利，既是善待志愿者，同时也是善待所有因志愿服务而受益或即将受益的公众，更是善待我们的社会和未来。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "Serving volunteers, especially their rights, seriously is both a matter of being kind to volunteers and of being kind to everyone who benefits or is about to benefit from volunteering, but also to our society and our future.
”";。
";;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
