滑向新冠肺炎大流行震中，欧盟离经济衰退还有多远？。
How far is the EU from recession as it slips to the epicenter of the New Crown Pneumonia pandemic?
钱伯彦。
Mr Chamberlain.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图虫特约作者 | 钱伯彦“ 原本长期增长乏力的欧元区各国、缺乏强大行政能力的欧盟中央政府，如今更面临着需要非常手段的严重疫情。
T & amp; B & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp;
”欧洲已是全球新冠肺炎疫情最为严重的地区，其确诊和死亡病例超过中国以外其他国家和地区的总和。
Europe is already the region with the world's worst outbreak of pneumonia, with more cases of diagnosis and death than countries and regions other than China combined.
按照世界卫生组织的说法，“欧洲已成为新冠肺炎大流行的震中”。
According to the World Health Organization, "Europe has become the epicentre of the New Crown Pneumonia pandemic."
疫情除了施压卫生部门之外，随着各国防疫措施的逐步升级，无论是服务行业还是实体经济，或金融业，疫情对于欧洲社会的全面冲击也正在逐步体现出来。
In addition to putting pressure on the health sector, the full impact of the epidemic on European societies, whether in the service sector, the real economy, or the financial sector, is gradually being felt as countries scale up their epidemic.
问题仅是，相比于仍能保证年均约6%左右经济增长的中国，常年经济增长乏力的欧盟是否会被疫情逼入衰退？清场的聚集性行业不同于设施老旧、卫生条件堪忧的其他意大利地铁，2013年投入运营的米兰地铁5号线干净整洁。
The question is simply whether the EU, with its anemic economic growth, will be pushed into recession by the epidemic, compared with China, which still produces about 6% annual economic growth? Unlike other Italian subways with old facilities and poor sanitary conditions, Line 5 of the Milan Metro, which opened in 2013, is clean and tidy.
这条又被当地人称为紫线的线路向西一直延伸至市郊，平日里行人稀少的终点站修葺得尤为富丽堂皇。
The line, also known locally as violet lines, extends westward to the outskirts of the city, and the normally sparsely populated terminus is especially magnificently repaired.
这里是圣西罗/梅阿查大球场。
This is the San Siro / Meacha Stadium.
3月12日晚上8点，梅阿查大球场本应人声鼎沸，此刻本应是国际米兰对阵西班牙赫塔菲的欧联杯八分之一决赛。
Maiacha Stadium, which was supposed to be noisy at 8pm on March 12, should be the eighth-place finalist in Inter's Europa League clash with Hetafi, Spain.
事实却是，球场内外空无一人。
The truth is, the stadium is empty.
“就算直接判我们输掉比赛，我们也坚决不去米兰参加比赛，球员的健康比什么都重要，我不会让他们去意大利冒险。
"Even if we lose the game, we are determined not to play in Milan. The health of the players is more important than anything else.
”赫塔菲俱乐部主席安赫尔·托雷斯在3月10日的强硬表态其实已经预告了该场比赛确定会流产。
A tough stance on March 10 by Hertha Torres, the club's chairman, had already predicted that the match would be aborted.
国际米兰的遭遇正发生在所有意大利球队身上，很快也将发生在所有欧洲球队身上。
The experience of Inter is happening to all the Italian teams and soon to all the European teams.
3月4日，当时意大利的新冠确诊病例数量已达3100例，总理孔特在当天夜间宣布所有体育赛事必须空场进行直到4月3日，其中就包括3月8日的意甲重头戏——尤文图斯对阵国际米兰的国家德比。
On March 4, when the number of confirmed cases in Italy reached 3,100, Prime Minister Konte announced that all sporting events would be held empty until April 3, including the Serie A highlight of March 8 - Juventus' national derby against Inter Milan.
作为在欧洲五大联赛中商业运营能力较为低下、收入最为捉襟见肘的意甲，空场比赛意味着雪上加霜的巨大损失。
As one of the five major leagues in Europe, where business is low and revenues are the hardest to come by, an empty game means a huge loss.
仅尤文图斯与国际米兰一场比赛，根据去年的票房收入计算，两家俱乐部就将损失至少660万欧元。
Juventus and Inter alone will lose at least 6.6m euros ($6.6m) based on box office revenues last year.
若以欧足联公布的意甲上赛季2.76亿欧元的门票收入计算，意甲空场比赛一个月就意味着2900万欧元的损失。
Based on UEFA's Scudetto ticket revenues of 276 million euros from last season's Serie A season, a month of vacant Italian football would mean a loss of 29 million euros.
唯一值得庆幸的是，空场比赛并不影响球队的转播收入。
The only thing to be thankful for is that the empty stadium does not affect the team's retransmission income.
意甲球队的转播收入平均约是门票收入的三倍，上赛季20支球队的转播总收入达11.5亿欧元，这也本应是意甲俱乐部最后的救命稻草。
The average Serie A retransmission income is about three times that of tickets, and last season 20 teams made a total of 1.15 billion euros, which should have been Serie A's last resort.
不过随着疫情在意大利的一发不可收拾，3月10日起，空场比赛最终变成了所有比赛彻底停摆。
But with the outbreak in Italy unstoppable, on March 10, the empty game turned into a complete stoppage of all games.
这也意味着，意甲一个月的损失将扩大到至少1.5亿欧元——该数字还未计算收益更巨大的欧冠联赛，何况几乎无人相信意大利在4月3日之前能彻底遏制住疫情。
It also means that Italy's one-month losses will widen to at least €150 million - a figure that does not take into account the more lucrative Champions League, and few believe that Italy will be able to contain the epidemic by April 3.
意大利还仅是冰山一角。
Italy is only the tip of the iceberg.
3月10日，孔特宣布意甲彻底停摆一个月的同一天，巴黎和马德里方便同时宣布法甲和西甲也将空场比赛至少一个月。
On March 10, the same day Conte suspended Serie A for a full month, Paris and Madrid agreed to announce simultaneously that France and Spain would also play out for at least a month.
至于上座率最为火爆的德甲，拜仁慕尼黑和多特蒙德所在的巴伐利亚州和北威州都相继宣布暂停一切1000人以上参与的活动，包括本周六将举行的多特蒙德对阵沙尔克04的鲁尔区德比也不得不空场进行。
As for Germany, the most popular, Bayern Munich and Dortmund's Bavaria and North Wales have announced the suspension of all activities involving more than 1,000 people, including Dortmund's Ruhr-04 Derby on Saturday.
3月13日，德国足协也宣布德甲将暂停至4月20日。
On March 13, the German Football Association also announced that Germany will be suspended until 20 April.
至此，五大联赛中仅有英超仍未下达空场令。
So far, only the Premier League has not issued a vacancy order.
不过据《太阳报》报道，英足总预计也将在下周颁布空场令。
But the FA is also expected to issue a vacancy order next week, The Sun reported.
如果五大联赛最终全部停摆，所有俱乐部一个月的总损失将超过15亿欧元。
If all five leagues eventually come to a halt, all the clubs will lose more than 1.5 billion euros a month.
据法国《队报》消息，欧足联将在下周二宣布今年欧洲杯延期至2021年举行，按照2016年法国欧洲杯的经验，这意味着给举办地带来至少16亿欧元的损失。
UEFA will postpone this year's Europa League to 2021 next Tuesday, meaning a loss of at least 1.6 billion euros, according to France's Euro 2016 experience, according to the French national team.
针对千人以上活动的禁令所触及的还有会展行业。
The ban on more than a thousand people also touched on the convention and exhibition industry.
“这是一次重大打击，所以不会有给予参展商的退款，”奥利维·里斯（Olivier Rihs）的表态就足以说明情况有多么糟糕。
"It was a big blow, so there was no refund to the exhibitors," Olivier Rihs said.
里斯是日内瓦车展主办公司的行政总裁，瑞士政府2月28日的一纸禁令将第90届日内瓦车展直接取消。
Reese is the chief executive of the Geneva Motor Show, the Swiss government's president, who on Feb. 28 banned the 90th Geneva Motor Show.
60万访客、15000余名专业人士与媒体人员本应给展会方以及当地餐饮住宿等行业带来2000万至2500万瑞士法郎的收益。
Six hundred thousand visitors, more than 15,000 professionals and media personnel should have brought in between CHF 20 million and CHF 25 million to the exhibitors and local catering and accommodation industries.
不只是日内瓦车展，不到一个月的时间内，包括汉诺威工业展、莱比锡书展、威尼斯嘉年华、巴塞罗那世界移动通信大会在内的众多欧洲知名展会皆被取消或大幅延后。
Not only the Geneva Motor Show, but in less than a month, a number of well-known European exhibitions, including the Hanover Industrial Exhibition, the Leipzig Book Fair, the Venice Carnival and the Barcelona World Mobile Congress, were cancelled or significantly delayed.
其中代表科技界和工业界顶尖盛会的世界移动通信大会和汉诺威工业展更是分别给当地带来了约4.6亿收入和20万人次以上的客流。
Among them, the World Mobile Congress and Hanover Industrial Exhibition, which represent the leading events in science and technology and industry, have brought about 460 million and 200,000 respectively.
不同于空场比赛的体育产业仍可依靠转播费用坚持，强调互动与商业交流的各大展会几乎没有任何搬至线上的可能。
Unlike the bare-court sports industry, which can still rely on broadcasting fees, major exhibitions that emphasize interaction and business exchange have little chance of moving online.
根据德国展会协会的估算，仅在德国，截止到3月9日为止取消的会展就将带来8.9亿欧元的直接损失，如果算上包括运输公司、展会运营、设备租贸公司等在内的诸多会展服务公司，间接损失约为21.3亿欧元。
In Germany alone, convention and exhibition cancellations as of March 9 will result in direct losses of 890 million euros, according to estimates by the German Exposition Association. Indirect losses of about 2.13 billion euros are accounted for by numerous convention and exhibition services companies, including transport companies, exhibition operators, equipment rental companies, etc.
相比于家大业大的知名会展主办方公司，依赖展会本身而存活的会展服务公司则多为50人以下的小微企业，且该些公司在会展准备期间80%的支出都依赖于参展公司的回款。
In contrast to well-known convention and exhibition organizers, convention and exhibition services companies that rely on the exhibition itself tend to be small and micro-enterprises with fewer than 50 people, and 80% of their expenses during the period of convention and exhibition preparation are dependent on refunds from exhibitors.
但就如日内瓦车展一样，主办方为了确保公共声誉往往只会退回访客的门票费用，参展公司支付的费用则不会或只会部分退还。
But, as at the Geneva Motor Show, organizers often refund only the cost of a visitor's ticket to ensure public reputation, but not or only partially.
这也导致作为食物链底层的会展服务公司即将面临巨大的现金流压力。
It also puts enormous cash-flow pressures on convention and exhibition services companies at the bottom of the food chain.
德国财政部日前透露，该部每天都会接到超过100个请求资金纾困的会展服务公司的电话，约有250家小微企业的资金链即将断裂。
The ministry receives more than 100 phone calls a day from convention and exhibition services companies seeking funds to bail them out, and about 250 small and micro businesses are on the verge of breaking down, the finance ministry said.
3月11日，世界会展行业协会主席哈滕道夫（Kai Hattendorf）就表示，新冠病毒至少已经造成了全球会展业140亿欧元的损失，而其中绝大部分位于当前疫情最为严重的欧洲。
On March 11, Kai Hattendorf, president of the World Federation of Convention and Exhibition Associations, said the new cap virus had caused at least €14 billion in losses to the global convention and exhibition industry, the vast majority of which are in Europe, where the epidemic is currently most severe.
冰封的流动性产业破产专业户，这个词用来形容意大利航空（Alitalia）或许最为贴切。
Perhaps most aptly used to describe Alitalia, a frozen and mobile industry bankruptcy specialist.
2008年金融危机，意大利航空宣告破产。
In the 2008 financial crisis, ASI went bankrupt.
但在时任意大利总理贝卢斯科尼的财政支持下，意大利航空得以继续苟延残喘。
But, with the financial backing of Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi at the time, AirItaly was able to survive.
2014年意大利航空终于迎来了中东土豪阿提哈德航空的收购，可惜的是在经历了三年亏损之后，2017年被阿提哈德抛弃的意大利航空再次破产。
After three years of losing money, the airline, which was abandoned by Atihad in 2017, failed again in 2014.
之后紧急收购其股份的意大利政府也被彻底套牢。
The Italian government, which rushed to buy its shares later, was also hammered out.
直到今年年初，再次获得了4亿贷款的意大利航空出现了希望的曙光：1月份的营收与旅客数量同比增加3%与4%，这也是近几年以来最漂亮的数据。
Until early this year, Italian Airlines, which received another $400 million loan, showed signs of hope: January's revenue-to-passenger ratio rose by 3 per cent and 4 per cent, the most impressive figures in recent years.
现在，希望破灭了。
Now hope has been dashed.
虽然意大利政府并未命令禁止一切国际航班起降，但随着截至13日法国、奥地利、西班牙等国先后停飞前往意大利的所有航班，在疫情冲击下出行需求大幅缩减是不争的事实。
Although the Italian government did not order a ban on all international flights, with France, Austria, Spain and other countries as of the 13th flight to Italy, a sharp reduction in travel demand under the impact of the epidemic is indisputable.
据意大利航空应用软件IlSole24ore的数据显示，包括米兰、威尼斯、热亚那等机场在内的意大利主要机场客流量在孔特宣布封锁北部两个大区之前就已经萎缩了40%以上。
Passenger traffic at Italy's main airports, including Milan, Venice and Genoa, had shrunk by more than 40 per cent before Conte announced the closure of two northern regions, according to the Italian aviation application IlSole 24ore.
而业绩刚有所起色的意大利航空已取消了38个航班，据《晚邮报》报道，意大利航空已将4000名员工合同改为了7个月的短期合同。
AirItalia, which has just shown some improvement, has cancelled 38 flights and, according to the Evening Post, has converted 4,000 staff contracts into seven-month short-term contracts.
不仅是本就孱弱的意大利航空，即便是欧洲第一大航司汉莎航空也无法幸免。
Even Lufthansa, Europe's largest airline, has not been spared, not just Italy's already weak airline.
截止3月12日，汉莎航空已经宣布取消3月的超过7100个航班，相当于公司约25%的运力。
As of March 12, Lufthansa had cancelled more than 7,100 flights in March, equivalent to about 25 per cent of the company's capacity.
据汉莎航空CEO卡斯滕·史波尔（Carsten Spohr）透露，在未来一周之内这个数字将上升至50%，公司所有的空客A380都不得不呆在停机库内：“我们的首要目标是降低损失并确保公司的流动性。
According to Carsten Spohr, Lufthansa's chief executive, this figure will rise to 50% in the coming week, and all of the company's Airbus A380 must stay on the stands: "Our primary goal is to reduce losses and ensure the company's liquidity."
”坏消息依然接踵而至。
Bad news continues to follow.
“美国大量新集群（病毒感染）都是由欧洲旅行者传播”，3月12日大洋彼岸的特朗普对申根区开始实施为期30天的旅行禁令。
"A large number of new clusters (viral infections) in the US are spread by European travellers," with Trump on the other side of the ocean on March 12 imposing a 30-day travel ban on the Schengen area.
对于与美联航共享航班、并在跨大西洋航线上占据36%市场份额的汉莎航空来说，禁令无异于晴天霹雳。
The ban came as a bolt from the blue for Lufthansa, which shares flights with AP and has a 36% market share on transatlantic routes.
当日，汉莎航空股价盘中一度跌幅达到13%，而与年初相比，汉莎的股价已经下跌接近50%。
Lufthansa's share price fell 13 per cent after falling nearly 50 per cent from the start of the year.
至于欧盟第二大航空公司法荷航也同样不容乐观。
France, the EU's second-largest airline, is no better off.
早在2月，法荷航就宣布该公司亚洲地区的客流量下降了24.7%。
As early as February, Fahrenheit announced a 24.7% drop in passenger traffic to the region.
而在大本营着火的3月，法荷航已经宣布取消了欧洲境内25%以上的航班，50%以上的前往意大利的航班也悉数被取消。
And in March, when the base was on fire, Fahrenheit announced that it had cancelled more than 25% of flights in Europe, and more than 50% of flights to Italy were cancelled.
与达美航空合作的法荷航也是在跨大西洋航线上市占率达29%的第二大出行提供商，法荷航12日的股价跌幅同样达10%以上。
Fahrenheit, which teamed up with Delta Air Lines, is also the second-largest provider of 29 per cent of transatlantic listings, with FIA losing more than 10 per cent of its value on Tuesday.
欧洲航空业一直以来都因各国政府的过度保护、小国林立等因素呈现出整合度不高、碎片化明显的特点，汉莎航空在欧洲市场的市占率也仅为6%左右。
The European airline industry has been characterized by weak integration and fragmentation due to over-protection by governments and the proliferation of small countries, with Lufthansa accounting for only about 6% of the European market.
分散的主营市场以及小体量带来的低抗风险性都使得欧洲航空公司成为了疫情的最大输家。
The spread of the main market and the small size of the low-risk to make European airlines have become the biggest losers of the epidemic.
3月5日，英国廉价航空公司弗莱比航空就成为了疫情冲击第一个宣布倒闭的航空公司。
On March 5, the UK's budget airline, Air Freby, became the first airline to declare bankruptcy.
在同一天国际航空运输协会IATA公布的一份财务预测中，该机构预计疫情将给欧洲航空业带来439亿美元的损失，而北美地区211亿美元的损失则相对可控。
In a financial forecast released the same day by the International Air Transport Association (IATA), the agency estimated that the epidemic would cost the European airline industry $43.9 billion, while the $21.1 billion loss in North America was relatively manageable.
不过此次疫情或许却能推动欧洲航司的整合和重塑浪潮，淘汰一批难以应对国际竞争的小航司。
But the outbreak may yet spur a wave of consolidation and reshaping of Europe's shipping department, eliminating a handful of small airlines that are struggling to compete internationally.
比民航业体量更大、对经济影响更为深远的则是旅游业。
More important and far-reaching for the economy than civil aviation is tourism.
意大利作为与中国并列的世界文化遗产数量冠军，旅游业占到GDP的12%，总产值达2300亿欧元。
As the world's cultural heritage champion alongside China, Italy accounts for 12% of GDP, with a combined value of €230 billion.
意大利旅游业停摆一个月相当于损失200亿欧元。
A month of tourism stoppage in Italy is equivalent to a loss of €20 billion.
而且不同于冬季为旅游淡季的世界其他地区，对于此次疫情最为严重的意大利北部地区来说，2月至3月正是最热门的滑雪季节。
And unlike the rest of the world, where winter is a slack season, February-March is the hottest ski season in northern Italy, where the epidemic is most severe.
据界面新闻记者了解，在南蒂罗尔自治省，一间滑雪别墅的单晚费用在1月甚至高达1700欧元。
In the Autonomous Province of South Tyrol, one-night fees for a ski villa can be as high as? 1,700 euros in January, according to interface journalists.
意大利旅游协会主席普利梅拉诺（Fabio Primerano）估计，目前意大利全国旅店的退订率已达到80%以上，剩余的订单主要是外国游客的夏季出游计划，如果届时疫情仍无法得到控制，该部分订单最终也会消失。
Fabio Primerano, president of the Italian Tourism Association, estimates hotel cancellations nationwide have reached more than 80 per cent, with remaining orders mainly for summer excursions by foreign tourists, which could eventually disappear if the outbreak remains unchecked.
旅游市场的萎缩在意大利的北方邻国奥地利体现得最为明显。
The shrinkage of the tourism market is most evident in Italy's northern neighbour Austria.
3月13日起，奥地利已经宣布关闭了境内所有滑雪场。
Since March 13, all ski resorts in Austria have been closed.
奥地利酒店协会主席莱特厄尔（Michaela Reitterer）对《标准报》罗列的数据显示，去年全年来自意大利的游客在奥地利预定了290万个住宿，今年的数字仅为83.7万；在莫扎特的故乡萨尔茨堡，以往在3月平均导游可以接待40个意大利旅行团，而今年的平均数量还不到一。
Michael Reitterer, president of the Austrian Hotel Association, told Standard that visitors from Italy booked 2.9 million lodgings in Austria last year, up from 837,000 this year, and that in Salzburg, Mozart's home town, the average tour guide used to be able to handle 40 Italian tours in March, down from an average of less than one this year.
其实早在2月，欧洲旅游市场就感受到了疫情带来的寒意。
In fact, as early as February, the European tourism market has felt the chill of the epidemic.
根据咨询公司Tourism Economics在3月初的分析，疫情导致至少700万人次的中国游客放弃了欧洲出游计划，并导致当地旅游业受损17%至25%。
According to an analysis by Tourism Economics, a consultancy, in early March, the outbreak caused at least 7 million Chinese tourists to abandon their European excursions and damaged local tourism by 17 to 25 per cent.
对于当地依赖中国游客的群体而言，中国和欧洲的错峰疫情爆发更是意味着至少一个季度的生意崩溃。
For local groups that depend on Chinese tourists, a spike in China and Europe would mean a collapse in business for at least a quarter.
在慕尼黑主营为华人提供婚纱摄影服务的FlyingPhoto告诉笔者，往年每月能有10至15笔订单，如今仅能依靠当地留学生结婚的零星生意。
FlyingPhoto, which specialises in Munich for Chinese wedding photography, told me that in previous years there were between 10 and 15 orders a month and now only a few businesses that rely on local students to get married.
该摄影公司往常每笔订单报价在1500欧元/天左右，拍摄景点涵盖整个欧洲。
The photography company used to quote around 1,500 euros per day for each order, covering the whole of Europe.
如今为了保证资金链不断裂，该公司已经开始从事代购服务。
The company is now engaged in buying-out services to keep the chain intact.
面临衰退的实体经济没有停工，也没有禁足，但这并不意味着欧洲的实体经济就能幸免于难。
The fact that the real economy is in recession is neither shut down nor banned does not mean that Europe's real economy is immune.
“德国的工业正面临着两德统一以来最长时间的衰退，已经是连续六个季度的工业产值下滑。
"German industry is facing its longest recession since reunification and has seen industrial output decline for the sixth straight quarter.
”3月12日，一封德国工业协会BDI致函联邦政府的公开信广为流传。
On March 12, an open letter from the German industrial association BDI to the federal government was widely circulated.
-5%，是德国工业协会对于德国这个欧盟第一大工业国今年工业总产值增长率的最新预测，该数字已经比年初-2%的预测翻了一番。
-5%, the latest forecast by the German industry association for this year's industrial output growth rate in Germany, the largest industrial country in the EU, has doubled from the -2 per cent forecast at the beginning of the year.
作为一块科技行业不甚发达的大陆，传统产业以及高端制造业始终是欧洲的拳头产业。
As a continent with an underdeveloped technology sector, traditional industries and high-end manufacturing have always been Europe's crown jewel.
不过相比于已经溃不成军的部分服务行业，欧洲的实体经济在停工遭遇政治阻力、依托全球市场需求、长供应链下的库存积压等多重因素影响下在短期内仍能保持稳定。
But Europe's real economy remains stable in the short term, relative to some of the services that have collapsed, owing to a combination of political resistance to shutdown, reliance on global demand, and a build-up of inventories along long supply chains.
但在中长期内，疫情导致的供应链问题和总需求下降将在生产端和消费端沉重打击实体经济。
But, in the medium to long term, supply-chain problems and falling aggregate demand from the epidemic will hit the real economy hard on both the production and consumer sides.
这尤其体现即将出现库存短缺的供应链上。
This is particularly true in supply chains where stock shortages are imminent.
2月以来，中国绝大部分省份都经历了大面积的停工。
Most of China's provinces have experienced massive shutdowns since February.
作为世界工厂以及汇聚了几乎所有世界十大港口的运输大国，中国在原材料以及初级加工品上对欧盟的制造业影响深远。
As the workshop of the world and a transportation power that brings together almost all the world's ten largest ports, China has a profound impact on the EU's manufacturing sector in terms of raw materials and primary processed goods.
得益于中欧之间海路运输耗时约六周、陆路运输耗时约三周的缓冲，中国大范围停工的影响暂时仍未在欧洲显露出来。
The impact of China's massive shutdown has yet to be felt in Europe, thanks to roughly six weeks of sea transport between China and Europe and a roughly three-week buffer on land transport.
不过，随着缓冲期的逝去，欧洲工业界已经感到寒意。
But with the buffer period gone, European industry is already feeling a chill.
法兰克福机场与中国的货运量在3月已经同比下滑8%。
Frankfurt's cargo traffic with China was down 8 per cent year on year in March.
汽车工业是欧盟最重要的第二产业，提供了超过1380万个就业机会并贡献了7%的欧盟生产总值，在意大利更是占到了约10%的生产总值。
The automobile industry is the EU's most important secondary sector, providing more than 13.8 million jobs and contributing 7% of the EU's gross domestic product (GDP), and in Italy about 10% of GDP.
全球第一大汽车零部件厂商博世集团CEO邓纳尔（Volkmar Denner）此前就表示：“新型冠状病毒疫情可能影响严重依赖中国的全球汽车供应链。
Volkmar Denner, chief executive of Bosch Group, the world's largest auto parts maker, said earlier: "The new coronavirus outbreak could affect the global auto supply chain, which is heavily dependent on China.
”博世在武汉建有转向系统工厂，而此前被中国员工感染的伟巴斯特公司在武汉也设有集团全球范围内最大的汽车天窗生产基地。
Bosch has a steering system plant in Wuhan, and previously infected by Chinese employees, Webster also has the group's largest global skylight production base in Wuhan.
此外，正在经历电动化转型的欧洲汽车业在动力电池领域对于亚洲制造商的依赖程度更是高达90%以上。
In addition, the European auto industry, which is undergoing an electric transformation, is more than 90 per cent dependent on Asian manufacturers for power batteries.
中国疫情造成的供应链问题还只是多米诺骨牌的第一张。
The supply chain problems caused by the Chinese epidemic are only the first domino dominoes.
随着意大利疫情的失控，即便是欧盟内部的汽车供应链也已出现问题。
As the Italian epidemic spirals out of control, even the car supply chain within the EU has become problematic.
米兰至都灵的波河平原一直都是意大利的工业和汽车业基地，同时也是围绕着德国的欧洲汽车业供应链重要一环。
The Milan-Turin Plain has long been the industrial and automotive base of Italy and an important part of the European automotive supply chain that surrounds Germany.
3月11日，在世界卫生组织WHO总干事谭德塞宣布新冠病毒已经构成“全球性大流行病”的关口，菲亚特克莱斯勒、轮胎制造商倍耐力、制动器制造商布雷博等意大利厂商纷纷宣布关闭部分本土工厂并减少产量。
On March 11, Italian companies such as Fiat Chrysler, tyre maker Stretch and brake manufacturer Brabbo announced plans to close some of their local plants and cut production after the World Health Organization's director-general, Roger Tanner, declared the virus a global pandemic.
在PSA集团的法国穆尔豪斯工厂、宝马慕尼黑研发总部、戴姆勒拉施塔特工厂、奥迪因戈施塔特总部都已有员工先后确诊新冠病例。
New cases have been confirmed at PSA's Murhaus plant, BMW Munich R & D headquarters, Daimlerachtat and Audi Ingostadt headquarters.
据笔者从各大企业内部邮件了解，虽然政府并未出台强制性的停工措施，但各大公司内部已经动员员工在家办公。
According to the author from the major enterprises internal mail, although the government did not introduce mandatory shutdown measures, but the major companies have mobilized staff at home.
由于法国政府与德国绝大部分州在13日已宣布下周一起学校停课，实质性的大面积停工已经无法避免。
With the French government and most German states on the 13th announced the next week a school closed, a substantial large-scale shutdown is inevitable.
在消费端，疫情对于欧洲汽车产业的冲击早在2月就已显露。
On the consumer side, the impact of the epidemic on Europe's auto industry was felt as early as February.
大众集团2月全球销量同比下滑25%，除去2月全国销量暴跌80%的中国区域，销量下滑3.5%的欧洲地区形势远差于北美和拉美8%和14%的销量增幅。
Volkswagen's global sales fell 25% in February from a year earlier, and excluding China, where sales plunged 80% in February, Europe, where sales fell 3.5%, lagged far behind North America and Latin America's 8% and 14% sales.
至于本土疫情失控的3月，至今未有权威机构对销量有过预测。
As for the local epidemic out of control in March, so far no authoritative body has predicted sales.
不过意大利汽车行业协会UNRAE预计2020年全年意大利汽车销量将至少萎缩15%，相当于290亿欧元的经济损失。
But the Italian auto industry association UNRAE expects Italian auto sales to shrink by at least 15%, or 29 billion euros, in 2020.
汽车产业的暗淡前进只是疫情对于实体经济冲击的冰山一角。
The bleak outlook for the auto industry is only the tip of the iceberg of the epidemic's impact on the real economy.
一份欧洲贸易行业协会针对577家与中国有业务往来的公司的调查问卷显示，80%的企业表示订单出现了大幅度下滑，仅有6.8%的企业取得了订单增长，绝大部分均为医疗用品公司。
A survey by the European Trade Industry Association of 577 companies doing business with China showed that 80 per cent of companies said orders had fallen sharply and only 6.8 per cent had seen orders grow, with the vast majority being medical supply companies.
在欧洲的另一强势产业化工行业，世界最大化工企业巴斯夫集团在2月底就发出了供应链紧张的预告，并拒绝就今年的业绩指标给出预测。
In another strong industrial chemical industry in Europe, BASF, the world's largest chemical company, issued an early warning in late February of supply-chain tensions and declined to give forecasts of this year's performance indicators.
3月总部位于意大利伦巴第的艾坚蒙IGM公司宣布停工，该公司是全球最大的光引发剂制造商。
In March, Igor IGM, based in Lombardy, Italy, the world's largest maker of photoinitiators, announced a shutdown.
在航空制造业，去年曾凭借新机型A321XLR以及老对手波音深陷737Max危机而大放异彩的空客集团也无法幸免。
In the airline industry, Airbus, which made a splash last year with its new model A321XLR and its old rival Boeing, was caught up in the 737Max crisis.
相比于今年1月斩获的200架订单，2月空客的新增订单数为尴尬的零。
Airbus's new order in February was an embarrassing zero, compared with 200 orders made in January.
此前亚航长途宣布延后其A330neo订单迫使空客不得不削减该机型产量。
AirAsia had previously announced a delay in its A330neo order, forcing Airbus to cut production.
在能源领域，一周之内由疫情导致的需求下滑以及沙特、俄罗斯之间的矛盾已经引发了油价的崩盘。
In the energy sector, a one-week decline in demand caused by the epidemic and a conflict between Saudi Arabia and Russia has triggered a collapse in oil prices.
拥有皇家壳牌、英国石油和道达尔三家国际石油巨头的欧盟（包含英国）直接创造了7万就业与超过500亿欧元产值。
The European Union (including the United Kingdom), with its three international oil giants - Royal Shell, BP, and Total - directly generated 70,000 jobs and more than €50 billion in output.
虽然目前三大公司并未就疫情与油价危机有过正式表态，但根据2016年油价跌至50美元/桶的经验，业绩的大幅走低与大规模裁员无法避免。
While the three companies have so far refrained from taking a formal position on the epidemic and the oil-price crisis, a sharp drop in performance and massive layoffs are inevitable, based on the 2016 oil-price drop to $50 a barrel.
2015年至2016年之际，皇家壳牌累计裁员10000人，道达尔裁员超过2000人，英国石油裁员4000人。
Between 2015 and 2016, Royal Shell will lay off 10,000 jobs, Total will lay off more than 2,000 and BP 4,000.
即便是相对封闭的核电站也遭到了疫情的影响。
Even relatively closed nuclear power plants have been affected by the epidemic.
全球最大的核电建设运营商法国电力EDF在2月底就已确认，该公司与中广核在英国欣克利角C的核电站建设项目有员工确诊，并导致当地办事处被隔离；3月初，法国本土的三座核电站中再次有三名员工确诊。
EDF, the world's largest operator of nuclear power, confirmed in late February that it had been confirmed by staff working on a CNBC nuclear power plant in Cape Hinckley C and that the local office had been quarantined; three employees were again diagnosed at three nuclear power plants in mainland France in early March.
法国电力已于3月13日向马克龙保证，能在40%的缺勤率下确保法国电力供应的稳定3个月以上。
On March 13, Electricité France promised Macron that it would be able to keep France's electricity supply stable for more than three months at 40 per cent absenteeism.
救市进行时3月12日，或许是欧洲各国股票市场进入21世纪以来最黑暗的一天。
The rescue took place on March 12, perhaps the darkest day in European stock markets in the 21st century.
法兰克福DAX指数收跌12.3%，巴黎CAC40指数收跌12.2%，伦敦富时100指数收跌10.9%，瑞士SMI指数收跌9.7%，意大利40指数收跌16.6%。
The DAX index fell 12.3 per cent in Frankfurt, 12.2 per cent in Paris, 10.9 per cent in London, 9.7 per cent in Switzerland and 16.6 per cent in Italy.
短短一天之内，万亿欧元的市值蒸发。
In just one day, €1 trillion of market value evaporated.
欧陆各大股指暴跌的主要原因是欧洲央行当天拒绝进一步下调欧元区存款利率。
The main reason for the crash was the ECB's refusal to cut euro-zone deposit rates further that day.
相比于已经宣布紧急降息的美联储和英国央行，欧元区当期-0.5%的存款机制利率已经使得欧洲各大银行的盈利能力远远落后于美国及亚洲同行。
In contrast to the Fed and the Bank of England, which have announced emergency interest-rate cuts, the current -0.5% deposit-facility rate in the eurozone has left European banks far behind their US and Asian counterparts in profitability.
过低的利率也使得欧洲央行的政策回转空间也极为有限。
Low interest rates also leave the ECB with little room for manoeuvre.
12日，在欧洲央行确定将维持欧元区各大关键利率不变的同时也宣布，将通过扩大量化宽松、放宽银行业监管等措施为经济注入额外流动性。
On February 12, while the ECB confirmed that it would keep key eurozone interest rates unchanged, it also announced that it would inject additional liquidity into the economy by expanding quantitative easing and relaxing banking regulations.
具体方案包括针对银行实施更多的临时性长期再融资操作（LTRO）、为未来一年内将施行的临时性长期再融资操作提供更多优惠条件、在年底前额外购买重点为私人部门债券的1200亿欧元资产、延后今年的银行压力测试等。
Specific proposals include more temporary long-term refinancing operations (LTRO) for banks, more favourable terms for temporary long-term refinancing operations to be implemented over the next year, additional €120 billion in additional private-sector-focused assets by the end of the year, and a delay in bank stress tests this year.
目前欧洲央行每月购买约200亿欧元的债券，其中仅有50亿为企业债券，其余绝大部分皆为欧元区各国的国债。
The ECB currently buys about €20 billion of bonds a month, of which only $5 billion is corporate bonds, with most of the rest being eurozone countries "national debt.
欧洲银行监管委员会主席恩瑞亚（Andrea Enria）也表示放松部分监管条例的目的在于使各家银行将重点放在针对小微企业和私人家庭的贷款上：“银行需要持续对资金紧张的家庭和企业提供资金。
Andrea Enria, chairman of the European Banking Regulatory Commission, also said some of the deregulation was aimed at getting banks to focus on lending to micro, small, and private households: "Banks need to keep funding cash-strapped households and businesses.
”三天前，法兰克福的欧洲央行总部刚刚确诊一例新冠病例。
The case came just three days after the European Central Bank headquarters in Frankfurt confirmed a new case.
12日的欧元区各国央行行长会议中，包括意大利银行行长在内的多位行长也都选择了视频连线。
At the 12-day meeting of eurozone central bankers, several presidents, including the governor of the Bank of Italy, opted for a video link.
相比于几乎没有子弹可打、利率降无可降的欧洲央行货币刺激政策，欧洲各国政府的财政刺激政策才是稳定经济的关键。
European governments "fiscal stimulus is the key to stabilizing their economies, as opposed to the ECB's monetary stimulus, with few bullets to knock down and no interest rates to cut.
欧洲各国在经历了欧债危机、执行了财政纪律之后，负债率都明显好转。
After the European debt crisis and fiscal discipline, the debt ratio of European countries improved obviously.
对比债务高企的美国或日本，欧洲各国的财政部仍有应对疫情冲击的底气。
Europe's finance ministries still have a cushion against the impact of the epidemic, compared with the debt-strapped US or Japan.
欧洲各国也确实正在行动。
European countries are indeed moving.
“没有人会因为这次疫情而丢掉工作！”意大利财政部长瓜尔蒂耶里（Roberto Gualtieri）在11日正式宣布向医疗系统和经济注入250亿欧元的财政刺激，相当于意大利国内生产总值的1.1%。
"No one will lose their jobs because of the epidemic!" Italy's finance minister, Roberto Gualtieri, on the 11th officially announced a 25 billion euro fiscal stimulus to the health-care system and the economy, equivalent to 1.1% of Italy's GDP.
“250亿欧元是为了让所有人都做好应对困难的准备，不论是医疗系统上的，还是经济领域的”，孔特与瓜尔蒂耶里当天在罗马详细介绍了这套于13日生效的一揽子方案：其中的第一笔资金120亿欧元将直接投入医疗系统和企业及家庭。
"The €25 billion ($25 billion) package was designed to prepare everyone, both in the health-care system and the economy," he said in Rome on Wednesday. "The first of these, 12 billion euros, will go directly to the health system and to businesses and households.
意大利政府已经允许企业员工的养老金与社保费用暂定收缴、企业享有税收减免、自由职业者也可以领取失业救济金。
The Italian government has allowed temporary collection of pension and social security contributions from employees, tax breaks for businesses, and unemployment benefits for freelancers.
目前已有75亿欧元发放至受到疫情波及的企业和家庭。
Euro7.5 billion has been disbursed to businesses and households affected by the epidemic.
此前在3月5日，孔特曾计划推出750亿欧元的财政刺激政策，但该计划对于经济常年零增长、负债严重的意大利来说不切实际。
Conte had previously planned a €75 billion fiscal stimulus on March 5, but the plan was impractical for Italy, a country with a chronically zero-growth economy and heavy debt.
作为仅次于希腊的欧洲第二大负债国，意大利此举将增加至少200亿欧元的负债。
Italy, Europe's second-largest debtor after Greece, would add at least €20 billion to its debt.
目前意大利国债价格已上涨100个基点。
The price of Italian government bonds has risen by 100 basis points.
即便是现行的250亿欧元纾困计划也需要欧盟方面的资助。
Even the current €25 billion bail-out would require EU support.
法国总统马克龙在12日的讲话中同样宣布，在法企业可以延期交付所得税与社保费用（社会公摊金），国家投资银行BPI将为企业提供担保与过桥贷款，政府也将为居家工作者支付部分工资与补贴。
In a similar vein, French President Marc Macron announced Thursday that French companies could defer income tax and social security contributions, that the BPI of the National Investment Bank would provide guarantees and bridge loans to businesses, and that the government would pay some wages and subsidies to homeworkers.
如果企业遭遇因供应链断裂或产能受限而与国际客户发生矛盾的情况，法国财政部与爱丽舍宫将出面协调。
The French Ministry of Finance will coordinate with the Elysee Palace in the event of conflicts with international customers due to supply chain disruptions or capacity constraints.
“我们将一切武器摆在台面上”，相比于法国暂未就财政刺激政策具体金额达成一致，财大气粗的德国财政部长朔尔茨（Olaf Scholz）已于13日在柏林宣布，联邦政府将通过德意志复兴开发银行KfW向企业提供高达4600亿欧元的资金担保。
"We put all our weapons on the table," Olaf Scholz, the well-heeled German finance minister, announced in Berlin on Tuesday that the federal government would guarantee companies up to €460 billion through the German bank KfW.
“如有必要可以再追加930亿欧元，这只是开始，我们没有上限。
"If necessary, an additional 93 billion euros could be added, which is only the beginning, and we have no ceiling.
”德国政府和劳动局还在第一时间向企业提供了短期工作金（Kurzarbeitergeld）并允许企业延期缴税。
The German government and the labour agency also offered companies Kurzarbeitergeld for the first time and allowed them to defer taxes.
短期工作金是指，在企业受到疫情或不可抗力而停工时，国家将负担在此期间的员工工资，以避免企业选择裁员。
Short-term work payment means that the State will bear the employee's wages during the period when the enterprise is shut down by an epidemic or force majeure, in order to avoid the enterprise choosing to lay off workers.
在欧盟层面，欧盟委员会主席冯德莱恩也于11日宣布将推出高达250亿欧元的资助基金EU Corona Fonds，主要用于投入医疗系统及确保中小企业的流动性，同时不排除使用该基金部分援助意大利。
At the EU level, European Commission President von der Lehn announced on the 11th that he would launch a 25 billion euro grant fund, EU Corona Fonds, to invest in the health-care system and ensure the mobility of small and medium-sized enterprises, while not excluding the use of the fund to partially assist Italy.
不过，作为欧盟“中央政府”的欧委会推出的250亿欧元刺激计划仅相当于欧元区GDP的0.25%。
But the €25 billion stimulus package launched by the European Commission, the EU's "central government," is equivalent to just 0.25% of eurozone GDP.
即使是此前因检测数量过少、迟迟不愿暂停英超比赛的英国人也在11日宣布投入300亿英镑的一揽子计划，其中甚至包括给予每家中小企业发放3000英镑的现金资助、餐饮与旅游行业免征一年营业税等慷慨举措。
Even the Britons, who had been reluctant to suspend the English Premier League because of the low number of tests, announced on the 11th a package of 30 billion pounds, including cash subsidies of up to 3,000 for each small and medium-sized enterprise and a year's sales tax exemption for the catering and tourism industries.
相比之下，欧委会显得缺乏英国财政大臣“不惜一切代价”的魄力。
The European Commission, by contrast, seems to lack the courage of Britain's chancellor of the exchequer to "do whatever it takes."
欧洲央行在12日已经将2020年与2021年欧元区经济增长预期下调至0.3%~0.8%以及1.3%。
The European Central Bank on the 12th has cut its economic growth forecast for 2020 and 2021 to 0.3% ~ 0.8% and 1.3% respectively.
此前的预期分别为1.2%和1.4%。
Earlier expectations were 1.2 per cent and 1.4 per cent, respectively.
只是，长期增长乏力的欧元区各国、缺乏强大行政能力的欧盟中央政府，面临着需要非常手段的严重疫情，欧盟能够交出份令人满意的答卷吗？未经授权 禁止转载。
But can the EU deliver a satisfactory response in the face of a severe epidemic requiring extraordinary measures in the long-term sluggish eurozone countries and the EU's central government, which lacks strong administrative capacity? Unauthorized reprinting is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
滑向新冠肺炎大流行震中，欧盟离经济衰退还有多远？。
How far is the EU from recession as it slips to the epicenter of the New Crown Pneumonia pandemic?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "滑向新冠肺炎大流行震中，欧盟离经济衰退还有多远？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "英国航空称这是一场“生存之战”。
var msg _ desc = & quot; British Airways calls it a "battle of survival."
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
