清明将近，上海推出网络祭扫、预约祭扫。
Close to Qingming, Shanghai launched the Internet sweep, reservation sweep.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：Pixabay“ 疫情发生以来，上海殡葬服务场所人流量总体下降逾7成。
Source: Pixabay. "Traffic at funeral homes in Shanghai has generally fallen by more than 70 percent since the outbreak.
”为亲友送别、安葬、祭扫逝者提供服务的殡葬场所，因人员聚集、人流密集等特点而成为疫情防控的重点场所。
Funerals for relatives and friends, burials and services for the deceased have become key sites for disease prevention and control because of the gathering of people and the high density of people.
疫情发生后，上海市殡仪馆、公墓、骨灰堂等殡葬服务单位暂不举办守灵、公开告别、公开祭祀祭奠，以及海葬等人员聚集活动。
After the outbreak of the epidemic, funeral services such as Shanghai mortuary, cemetery, urn and other funeral services temporarily do not hold vigil, public farewell, public sacrifice commemoration, and sea burial.
3月14日下午，上海市民政局副局长曾群对外表示，疫情发生以来，上海殡葬服务场所人流量总体下降逾7成。
On the afternoon of March 14, Zeng Qun, deputy director of the Shanghai Civil Affairs Bureau, said the overall traffic at the funeral service in Shanghai had fallen by more than 70 percent since the outbreak.
曾群倡导，广大市民群众在今年清明期间，不要前往公墓、骨灰堂进行现场祭扫。
Mr Tsang urged the public not to visit cemeteries and urns for spot sweeps during this year's Qingming Festival.
为此，民政部门也将推出三项便民服务措施：今年清明期间（3月28日至4月12日），全市经营性公墓（骨灰堂）将推出集体祭扫、网络祭扫、代客祭扫三项便民服务措施。
To this end, the Civil Affairs Department will also launch three convenient service measures: During the Qingming period (March 28-April 12), the Citywide Operational Cemetery (Cemetery) will launch three measures to facilitate the operation of the mass graves (urns): mass sweeps, Internet sweeps and valet-sweeping services.
“集体祭扫”是指各公墓将在清明期间，为安葬在本园区的逝者举办一场集体纪念仪式，参加人员为公墓工作人员；“网络祭扫”是指各公墓将在各自的官网或微信公众号上开设“网络祭扫平台”，市民可通过电脑或手机登录后祭奠亲人；“代客祭扫”是指市民群众不去现场，委托公墓方祭奠亲人，由公墓方安排工作人员提供擦拭墓碑、鞠躬行礼、敬献鲜花等服务，并把服务过程通过照片反馈给市民群众。
"Group Sweeping" means that during the Tomb Sweeping Day, the cemetery will hold a collective memorial service for the deceased buried in the park, with the participation of cemetery staff. "Dedication sweeps" refer to the mass graves will not be on the scene, entrusted with mourning relatives, cemetery staff will provide cleaning tombstone, bowed salute, flowers and other services, and the service process through photos to the public.
上述三项服务中，前两项为免费；“代客祭扫”将适当收费，但全部予以价格公示，最基本的套餐服务价为35元。
The first two of the three services are free of charge; the "Fee Sweeper" will charge a suitable fee, but all will be offered at a price of 35 yuan for the most basic package.
其次，考虑到清明期间，部分市民群众确有落葬需求，个别市民群众确有原因需要现场祭扫，上海将实行“预约落葬”和个别“预约祭扫”。
Secondly, in view of the fact that during the Tomb-sweeping Day, some citizens did need to go to the funeral and individual citizens did need to go to the scene for certain reasons.
曾群表示，“预约落葬”需严格控制落葬参加人数，每户不超过10人。
"Appointment for burial" requires strict control over the number of participants, not more than 10 people per household, Zeng said.
另外，清明期间，到殡仪馆或骨灰堂办理骨灰领取、寄存也是可以的，但建议市民事先通过电话，向相关殡仪馆或骨灰堂了解注意事项和办事流程，并做好预约登记。
In addition, during the Qing Ming period, to the funeral parlour or urn to collect and deposit ashes can also be, but the public is advised to telephone the relevant funeral home or urn to understand the notes and procedures, and make an appointment registration.
对于个别“预约祭扫”，上海将采取由各经营性公墓、骨灰堂“限量预约、约满为止、分时祭扫”的措施。
For the individual "appointment sweep," Shanghai will adopt the measures of "limited appointment, contract expiration, time-sharing sacrifice" by each operating cemetery and urn.
预约登记从3月26日启动。
Booking starts on 26 March.
有关今年清明期间祭扫和疫情防控工作的各项措施，民政部门还将通过“上海发布”微信公众号、“上海市殡葬服务平台”网站、电视滚动字幕、手机短信等多种渠道及时告知市民，扩大社会知晓面。
Civil affairs departments will also inform the public in time through various channels, such as the "Shanghai Post" micro-message public phone number, the "Shanghai Funeral Service Platform" website, TV rolling subtitles, mobile phone text messages and other measures to prevent and control the epidemic during the Tomb Sweeping Festival.
各殡葬服务单位也将通过自有渠道，及时将相关信息通知客户。
Funeral service units will also through their own channels, timely inform customers of relevant information.
曾群强调，从今年清明开始，全市殡葬服务单位将严格实行“无烟祭扫”，并进一步深入倡导“丧事简办、生态安葬、居家怀念、网络祭扫、鲜花祭扫”等殡葬文明新风尚。
Zeng stressed that from this year, the city's funeral service units will strictly implement "smoke-free Festivals", and further promote "funeral arrangements, ecological burial, home memory, Internet sweeps, flowers sweep" and other funeral customs.
他也同时呼吁广大市民群众进一步转变观念，共同推进丧葬礼俗改革，不断推进殡葬移风易俗。
He also called on the general public to further change the concept, jointly promote funeral custom reform, and constantly promote funeral customs.
“请广大市民群众继续理解、支持和配合我们在今年清明期间采取的上述措施，为早日打赢疫情防控战役贡献自己的力量。
"We invite the general public to continue to understand, support and cooperate with the above-mentioned measures we took during the Qingming period this year, and to contribute to an early victory in the battle against the epidemic.
”曾群说道。
"said Zeng Qun.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
清明将近，上海推出网络祭扫、预约祭扫。
Close to Qingming, Shanghai launched the Internet sweep, reservation sweep.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "清明将近，上海推出网络祭扫、预约祭扫";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "疫情发生以来，上海殡葬服务场所人流量总体下降逾7成。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Since the outbreak, overall traffic at funeral homes in Shanghai has fallen by more than 70%.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
