教育部：优先初三高三学生复学，大学开学继续延后。
Ministry of Education: Resumption of third year students in the third year of junior high school.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国“ 对于学生复课的相关问题，教育部应对新冠肺炎疫情工作领导小组办公室主任王登峰接受了白岩松的采访。
2007-9-25 21: 48 China's Ministry of Education responds to Pneumonia New Crown Pneumonia Office Director Wang Dengfeng interviewed by Bai Yansong.
针对于高三、初三是否优先复学，以及大学何时开学等问题，王登峰进行了回应。
Wang responded to questions about whether to give priority to returning to school in the third year of high school and when to start college.
”对于学生复课的相关问题，昨天（3月13日），教育部应对新冠肺炎疫情工作领导小组办公室主任王登峰接受了白岩松的采访。
"Wang Dengfeng, director of the Leading Group for Addressing the New Crown Pneumonia Epidemic, was interviewed yesterday (March 13) by Wang Dengfeng, director of the leading group's office.
针对于高三、初三是否优先复学，以及大学何时开学等问题，王登峰进行了回应。
Wang responded to questions about whether to give priority to returning to school in the third year of high school and when to start college.
在保障安全的情况下 优先初高三学生复学教育部应对新冠肺炎疫情工作领导小组办公室主任 王登峰：教育部几次通知里面都明确提出来，在保障安全的前提下，应该首先把高三和初三来开学。
Top three students get back to school in a safe environment Education Minister Wang Dengfeng, director of the Leading Group on Addressing the New Crown Pneumonia outbreak, has made it clear in several circulars that the third year of high school and the third year of junior high school should be the first to start school on the premise of safety.
因为他们是毕业班，高三的同学要复习高考，初三的同学要中考，这些同学他们需要尽快回到学校。
Because they are graduating class, high school students have to review the college entrance examination, junior high school students have to take the exam, these students need to return to school as soon as possible.
大学开学涉及跨省流动 时间将继续延后教育部应对新冠肺炎疫情工作领导小组办公室主任 王登峰：大学的开学跟中小学一样，我们遵循的原则是一样的。
Interprovincial mobility will continue to be postponed until the start of the university year. Wang Dengfeng, director of the Leading Group for Addressing the New Crown Pneumonia outbreak in the Ministry of Education: College opening is the same as in primary and secondary schools.
只不过一个最大区别是：大学生的开学，涉及到相当多跨省流动的学生。
One of the biggest differences is that college students start school, involving a considerable number of students who move across provinces.
我们国家现在有4000多万大学生，其中有1000多万要跨省流动，其他还有3000万是在省内流动。
There are now more than 40 million college students in our country, more than 10 million of whom will move across provinces, and another 30 million will move within the province.
从这个数字可以看到，如果加上中小学，整个学校开学就是三个多亿的人口在全国范围内的流动。
If primary and secondary schools are added to this figure, the opening of an entire school would mean the movement of more than 300 million people throughout the country.
所以说，是一个人员流动范围最广、聚集程度最高、同时社会影响也最大的一项非常艰巨的任务。
Therefore, it is a very difficult task with the broadest mobility, the highest degree of aggregation and the greatest social impact.
在这个过程中，我们首先要解决的就近的中小学开学的问题，在中小学基本上开学或者在疫情得到更进一步控制的前提下，我们再来考虑大学的开学。
In the process, the first thing we need to do is to start primary and secondary schools close to home. We will consider the beginning of the school year once primary and secondary schools are largely open or the epidemic is under closer control.
所以，可以明确的是，大学开学要相对来讲继续往后延。
Therefore, it is clear that the opening of the university will continue to be relatively delayed.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
教育部：优先初三高三学生复学，大学开学继续延后。
Ministry of Education: Resumption of third year students in the third year of junior high school.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "教育部：优先初三高三学生复学，大学开学继续延后";。
var msg _ title = & quot; The Ministry of Education: Priority was given to third form students at junior high school.
var msg_desc = "对于学生复课的相关问题，教育部应对新冠肺炎疫情工作领导小组办公室主任王登峰接受了白岩松的采访。
var msg _ desc = & quot; and for questions about student resumption, Mr. Wang Dengfeng, director of the Department of Education's Leading Group for Work with Newcrown Pneumonia, was interviewed by Mr. Bai.
针对于高三、初三是否优先复学，以及大学何时开学等问题，王登峰进行了回应。
Wang responded to questions about whether to give priority to returning to school in the third year of high school and when to start college.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
