伊朗硬核防疫：出动军队清街，十天内完成全民筛查。
Iran hard nuclear epidemic prevention: use the army to clear the streets, complete the universal screening within 10 days.
肖恩。
Sean.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
伊朗德黑兰街头，消防员正在消毒。
Firefighters disinfect streets in Tehran, Iran.
图片来源：Press TV记者 | 肖恩“ 伊朗累计确诊新冠肺炎病例11364例，死亡514例。
Source: Press TV & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; Sean & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
”累计确诊人数突破11000，单日新增死亡病例达到新高，新冠肺炎疫情在伊朗的脚步还在加快。
The cumulative number of confirmed cases has topped 11,000, with new deaths hitting a new high in a single day, and the pace of new cases of pneumonia in Iran is accelerating.
同时伊朗的抗疫手段也越来越“硬核”。
At the same time, Iran's response to the epidemic is becoming increasingly "hard-core."
人民日报客户端援引《德黑兰时报》网站报道，武装部队总参谋长巴盖里（Mohammad Baqeri）在3月13日下令军队上街，清空全国所有商店和街道和市场，以切断病毒传播。
The People's Daily client quoted the Teheran Times website as saying that on March 13, Mohammad Baqeri, the chief of staff of the armed forces, ordered the army to the streets to clear all shops and streets and markets across the country to cut off the virus.
接下来的一周至10天内，伊朗将对所有公民进行筛查，确认其是否疑似感染新冠肺炎。
In the next week to 10 days, Iran will screen all its citizens to see if they are suspected of contracting pneumonia.
筛查的方式是通过社交媒体、电话，必要的时候也会上门到访。
Screening takes place through social media, telephone calls and, when necessary, visits.
伊朗有8100万人口，其工作量之巨，可想而知。
It is conceivable that Iran, with a population of 81 million, has a huge workload.
届时，疑似感染者将被送入指定医疗点进一步接受检查。
At that time, suspected infected persons will be sent to designated medical points for further examination.
为此，军方还将协助在伊朗各地建立1000个固定或流动医疗点。
To this end, the military will also assist in the establishment of 1,000 fixed or mobile medical points throughout Iran.
伊朗卫生部将建立网站，每个伊朗人必须把自己的健康信息输入。
Iran's health ministry will set up a Web site where each Iranian must enter his or her own health information.
此外，伊朗将从14日开始关闭大部分加油站，阻止民众开车外出。
In addition, Iran will start to close most of the 14 gas stations, to prevent people from driving out.
德黑兰到外地的所有出入口，都已设下关卡。
Checkpoints have been set up at all entrances and exits from Tehran to the field.
但首都德黑兰市区的超市、药房等涉及为民众生活提供基本物资保障和服务的地方，不会关闭。
However, supermarkets, pharmacies and other places in the capital city of Tehran involving the provision of basic goods and services for the population will not be closed.
另据伊朗Press TV报道，最高领袖哈梅内伊已在此前一天向巴盖里下达命令，要求建立一个“医疗卫生总部”，除了建立方舱医院等医疗设施外，还需要采取行动防止疫情进一步传播。
Also, Iran's Press TV said Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei had issued an order the day before to set up a "health headquarters" that would take action to prevent further outbreaks, in addition to setting up medical facilities such as a cabin hospital.
哈梅内伊特别提到，有一些证据指出，此次疫情可能是“生化袭击”，因此军方的应对可以被视作生化防御训练，有利于加强国家力量。
In particular, Khamenei cited some evidence that the outbreak could be a "biochemical attack," so the military response could be seen as a biochemical defense training that would strengthen the state.
在疫情爆发后，伊朗一直将矛头指向美国，称其图谋利用疫情打击伊朗政权。
Since the outbreak, Iran has been targeting the United States, saying it intends to use the outbreak against the Iranian regime.
卫生部长贾汉普尔（Kianoush Jahanpour）在当地时间13日中午通报，过去24小时该国新增新冠肺炎确诊病例1289例，累计确诊11364例，死亡514人。
Health Minister Kianoush Jahanpour told reporters at noon local time Thursday that 1,289 new cases of pneumonia had been confirmed in the country over the past 24 hours, with a cumulative total of 11,364 confirmed cases and 514 deaths.
还有3529人已经治愈出院。
A further 3,529 people have been discharged from hospitals.
据伊朗国家电视台报道，伊朗伊斯兰革命卫队高级指挥官沙巴尼（Nasser Shabani）因感染新冠肺炎去世。
Nasser Shabani, a senior commander of Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, died of pneumonia after contracting the disease, state television reported.
沙巴尼曾在两伊战争中担任革命卫队指挥官，并且是前德黑兰革命卫队塔哈拉拉赫基地副总协调人。
Shabani served as commander of the Revolutionary Guards during the Iran-Iraq war and as deputy general coordinator of the former Tehran Revolutionary Guard base at Taharalah.
该基地负责首都德黑兰的安全，是革命卫队最重要的基地之一。
The base is responsible for security in the capital Tehran and is one of the most important bases of the Revolutionary Guard Corps.
伊朗拉扎维呼罗珊省省会马什哈德市市长卡拉伊和检察长杜鲁迪新冠病毒测试也都呈阳性，目前两人状况良好，均已接受隔离。
The Mayor of Mashhad, the capital of Razavi Khorasan Province, and the Prosecutor General, Durodi, were also tested positive for the new crown virus, and both are in good condition and are in isolation.
目前伊朗已经有至少10名高官确诊，包括第一副总统贾汉吉里。
At least 10 senior officials have been confirmed, including First Vice President Jahangiri.
有线电视新闻网（CNN）和《纽约时报》等美国媒体12日发布了一组伊朗库姆的卫星图像，称伊朗正在迅速扩建当地的一个大型公墓。
CNN and The New York Times and other US media released a set of satellite images of Qom 12, said Iran is rapidly expanding a large cemetery there.
从去年10月和今年3月的卫星图像对比中可以看到，有两块疑似新修缮的墓地区（图中红圈所示）。
A comparison of satellite images from October last year and March this year shows two areas of suspected newly renovated tombs (shown in the red circle).
2019年10月29日卫星图像。
Satellite images of 29 October 2019.
图片来源：CNN2020年3月1日卫星图像。
Source: CNN 2020 satellite images.
图片来源：CNN伊朗于2月19日首次通报确诊新冠肺炎病例。
Source: CNN Iran reported its first confirmed case of pneumonia on February 19.
俄罗斯卫星通讯社报道提到，早在2月21日该墓地就开始挖掘工作，到2月底已经出现两条长约90米的沟渠。
The Russian satellite news agency reported that excavation work had begun on the site as early as 21 February and that by the end of February there were two ditches some 90 metres long.
3月20日是伊朗历新年。
March 20 is the Iranian New Year.
按照传统，许多伊朗家庭会在新年前扫墓。
Traditionally, many Iranian families sweep tombs before the New Year.
世界卫生组织13日表示，伊朗的抗疫行动方向是正确的，但还需要做的更多，包括传染病学数据收集和分析工作，以及加强对医务人员的保护。
The World Health Organization said Sunday that Iran is on the right track, but more needs to be done, including the collection and analysis of epidemiological data and strengthening the protection of medical personnel.
伊朗疫情加剧，中国驻伊朗大使馆已向伊朗捐赠25万只口罩和5000份核酸检测试剂盒。
The Iranian epidemic has intensified, with the Chinese embassy in Iran donating 250,000 masks and 5,000 nucleic acid test kits to Iran.
在上个月底，中国志愿医疗专家团队抵达伊朗首都德黑兰，帮助伊朗共同抗击新冠肺炎疫情。
At the end of last month, a team of Chinese volunteer medical experts arrived in Tehran to help Iran fight the outbreak.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
伊朗硬核防疫：出动军队清街，十天内完成全民筛查。
Iran hard nuclear epidemic prevention: use the army to clear the streets, complete the universal screening within 10 days.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "伊朗硬核防疫：出动军队清街，十天内完成全民筛查";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Iran's hard-core immunization campaign: Call out troops to clear the streets and complete RSK within 10 days;;
var msg_desc = "伊朗累计确诊新冠肺炎病例11364例，死亡514例。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Iran has cumulatively diagnosed 11,364 new cases of pneumonia and 514 deaths.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
