南京、宁波率先推出亿元消费券，其他地方或“因城施策”。
Nanjing, Ningbo to launch the first million yuan of consumer bonds, other places or "Incheng policy."
辛圆。
Xinyuan.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
南京秦淮河。
Nanjing Qinhuai River.
图片来源：视觉中国。
Source: Visual China.
记者：辛圆“ 3月13日，江苏省南京市和浙江省宁波市分别提出，将发放总额过亿元的消费券，释放居民消费潜力，推动服务业复苏。
"On March 13, Nanjing, Jiangsu Province, and Ningbo, Zhejiang Province, respectively, proposed to release consumption bonds worth more than RMB 100 million to unleash residents' consumption potential and promote the recovery of the service industry.
”近期有关振兴消费的的呼声不绝于耳，令人欣慰的是，已有城市率先做出行动。
Recent calls to revive consumption have been heard, and cities have taken the lead, to their credit.
3月13日，江苏省南京市和浙江省宁波市分别提出，将发放总额过亿元的消费券，释放居民消费潜力，推动服务业复苏。
On March 13, Nanjing, Jiangsu Province, and Ningbo, Zhejiang Province, respectively, proposed to release more than 100 million yuan in vouchers to unleash residents' consumption potential and boost service sector recovery.
据南京市政府新媒体平台“南京发布”称，消费券将以电子券形式发放，总额度3.18亿元，主要包括餐饮消费券、体育消费券、图书消费券、乡村旅游消费券、信息消费券、困难群众消费券、工会会员消费券等7大类。
According to Nanjing Government's new media platform, the vouchers will be issued in the form of electronic vouchers totaling 318 million yuan, including seven major categories: catering vouchers, sports vouchers, book consumption vouchers, rural travel vouchers, information consumption vouchers, hardship case mass consumption vouchers and trade union members' consumption vouchers.
南京市表示，为体现差异化，消费券面值根据不同类型按每份100元或50元设定，其中，困难群众、工会会员、乡村旅游等三类消费券按照系统内有关要求发放，餐饮、体育、图书、信息等四类消费券采用多批次网上摇号方式面向全体市民公开发放。
According to Nanjing, the coupon's face value is set at 100 yuan or 50 yuan per copy according to different types. Among them, hardship cases, trade unionists and rural tourism are issued according to the requirements of the system.
宁波市政府则在当天的新闻发布会上表示，当地各级政府将联合企业推出1亿元的文化和旅游惠民消费券，所有市民和游客可在指定平台上领取，在指定的景区、酒店、影剧院、书店等文化旅游场所凭消费券享受优惠折扣。
The Ningbo government said at a news conference that the joint venture would offer 100 million yuan worth of culture and tourism vouchers, which would be available to all citizens and tourists on designated platforms with preferential discounts in designated scenic spots, hotels, cinemas and bookstores.
此外，宁波还将推出健身消费券，由各场馆根据各自不同规模、容量，向市民发放，市民凭券可免费使用场馆场地设施健身。
In addition, Ningbo will introduce a fitness voucher, which will be distributed to the public according to their respective sizes and capacities.
提振消费在当下无疑具有相当重要的意义。
Boosting consumption today is undoubtedly of considerable importance.
作为2020年开年的重磅“黑天鹅”事件，新型冠状病毒感染肺炎给对中国经济带来了不小的冲击，消费更是首当其冲。
The new coronavirus-infected pneumonia is having a major impact on China's economy, with consumption bearing the brunt of the event, which will weigh heavily on the Black Swan in 2020.
疫情防控期间，餐饮、住宿、旅游、体育健身等行业损失巨大。
During the period of epidemic prevention and control, catering, accommodation, tourism, physical fitness and other industries lost huge.
比如，据中国汽车工业协会数据，今年1-2月，国内汽车销量同比下降42%，其中，2月汽车销量下跌近8成。
In January and February, for example, domestic auto sales fell 42% year-on-year, including nearly 80% in February, according to the China Association of Automotive Industry.
另据中国旅游研究院测算，2020年一季度及全年，国内旅游人次同比将分别下降56%、15.5%，国内旅游收入同比分别减少69%、20.6%，全年减收1.18万亿元。
According to estimates by the China Tourism Research Institute, domestic tourist arrivals will fall by 56 percent and 15.5 percent in the first quarter of 2020 and year-on-year, respectively, while domestic tourism revenue will decrease by 69 percent and 20.6 percent, respectively.
自2014年以来，消费已连续六年成为中国经济增长第一拉动力。
Since 2014, consumption has been the number one driver of China's economic growth for the sixth consecutive year.
2019年，消费对我国经济增长的贡献率为57.8%，拉动经济增长3.5个百分点。
In 2019, consumption contributed 57.8 per cent to China's economic growth, boosting the economy by 3.5 percentage points.
消费的“哑火”必然会拖累经济增长。
"Dull fires" of consumption are bound to drag down economic growth.
为此，3月4日，中共中央政治局常务委员会召开会议时就提到，要把复工复产与扩大内需结合起来，把被抑制、被冻结的消费释放出来，把在疫情防控中催生的新型消费、升级消费培育壮大起来，使实物消费和服务消费得到回补。
On March 4, the Standing Committee of the Politburo held a meeting to discuss how to combine the resumption of work with the expansion of domestic demand, free up restrained and frozen consumption, and nurture and strengthen the consumption of new and upgraded products in the prevention and control of the epidemic, thus making up for the consumption of goods and services.
3月13日，国家发展改革委、财政部和工信部等23个部门联合印发《关于促进消费扩容提质加快形成强大国内市场的实施意见》，从优化市场供给、推进文旅消费、建设城乡融合消费网络、加快构建智能消费体系和提升居民消费能力五个方面推出19条举措，多方并举刺激国内消费。
On 13 March, 23 departments, including the National Development and Reform Commission, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Industry and Communications, jointly issued the Implementation Opinions on Promoting Consumption Expansion and Quality Enhancement to Accelerate the Formation of a Strong Domestic Market.
“南京和宁波的行动说明当地政府在目前的经济环境下有强烈的刺激消费意识，期望以此给当地经济助力，这一点很值得肯定。
"The actions of Nanjing and Ningbo are a positive indication that the local government has a strong consumer incentive to help the local economy in the current economic environment.
”易居研究院智库中心总监严跃进对界面新闻表示，而且从公开信息来看，地方政府对于消费券使用的具体方向等都做了明确规定。
Yan Yuejin, director of the Yi residence institute's think tank, told Interface News that the local government has made clear what direction the vouchers should be used.
“这能使政策的执行更加精准和到位，让大家真切感受到购买商品和服务的优惠，”严跃进说，近期高层连续表态要刺激消费，预计后续会有更多城市出台类似政策。
"It makes policy implementation more precise and in place, and gives people a real sense of the benefits of buying goods and services," says Mr. Yan, who recently made a series of high-level statements to stimulate consumption, with more cities expected to follow suit.
消费券并非新鲜事物。
Coupons are not new.
2008-2009年全球金融危机时期，中国部分省市就推出过“消费券”鼓励居民消费。
During the 2008-2009 global financial crisis, some Chinese cities and provinces introduced "consumption vouchers" to encourage consumption.
例如，杭州在2009年1月24日和3月17日两次向特定对象（主要为低保和困难家庭、企业退休职工、学生等）发放“消费券”，用于购买生活必需、家电、手机、旅游、文化、体育健身等产品。
For example, on January 24 and March 17, 2009, Hangzhou issued "consumption vouchers" to specific target groups (mainly low-income and disadvantaged families, retired employees of enterprises, students, etc.) for the purchase of such products as necessities of life, household appliances, mobile phones, tourism, culture and physical fitness.
此外，这一时期，中央政府还推出了大规模的“家电、汽车下乡”政策。
In addition, during this period, the central government also launched a large-scale "home appliances, cars into the countryside" policy.
官方数据显示，在实施“汽车下乡”政策的22个月（2009年3月至2010年12月）中，全国补贴下乡汽车、摩托车1791.47万辆，累计兑付资金265.67亿元。
Official figures show that in the 22 months from March 2009 to December 2010, the government subsidized 17,914,700 automobiles and motorcycles to rural areas, paying a cumulative total of 26,567 million yuan.
这些政策取得了明显效果。
These policies have yielded tangible results.
在家电下乡政策的带动下，家电行业销售产值同比增速从2009年6月开始由负转正，2009年全年实现3%的增长。
Driven by the rural policy of household appliances, the sales output value of household appliances industry grew from negative to positive year-on-year in June 2009, achieving 3 per cent growth in 2009.
2009年，中国汽车销量达到1364万辆，比2008年增长46%，正是在这一年，中国超过美国成为全球最大的汽车市场。
In 2009, China sold 13.64 million cars, up 46% from 2008, the year when it overtook the U.S. as the world's largest auto market.
尽管消费券是刺激消费回升的一大良方，但分析师指出，财政压力之下全面派发消费券不现实，政策可能要向特定地区、特定行业、特定人群倾斜。
While consumer bonds are a good way to stimulate a recovery in consumption, analysts point out that it is not realistic to distribute vouchers across the board under fiscal pressure and that policies may be skewed in favour of specific regions, industries and populations.
苏宁金融研究院消费金融研究中心主任付一夫在接受界面新闻采访时表示，不能盲目地大规模发放消费券，而是要基于不同地区的具体情况有针对性地落实，以防止财政压力进一步增加。
'Rather than blindly handing out vouchers on a large scale, we need to tailor them to the specific circumstances of different regions to prevent further fiscal pressures, 'Fu Yiff, director of the Consumer Financial Research Center at the Suning Financial Research Institute, said in an interview with Interface News.
同时，应加快推动企业复工复产，保证产能的恢复与产品的供给，以供给侧的复苏来配合需求侧的提振才能取得更佳效果。
At the same time, efforts should be made to accelerate the resumption of business operations, ensure the recovery of production capacity and the supply of products, and achieve better results only if supply-side recovery is matched by a demand-side boost.
严跃进也表示，消费券本身占用了政府财政，不同地方应根据自身的财政情况来“因城施策”。
Mr Yan also said that the vouchers themselves took up government finances and that different places should follow their own financial situation to "give policy to the city."
此外，西南财经大学教授甘犁此前在界面新闻发表文章指出，政府发放的补贴应该聚焦于未能享受个税专项附加扣除政策红利，且年收入在6万元以下的群体，主要针对其教育、医疗、住房和赡养支出。
In addition, Professor Gan Li, a professor at Southwest University of Finance and Economics, said government subsidies should focus on education, health care, housing and maintenance expenses for groups that do not receive a tax-specific bonus and earn less than $60,000 a year.
政策实施需要的财力支持，中央政府可以通过发行国债的方式来解决。
The financial support needed for policy implementation can be provided by the central government through the issuance of government bonds.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
南京、宁波率先推出亿元消费券，其他地方或“因城施策”。
Nanjing, Ningbo to launch the first million yuan of consumer bonds, other places or "Incheng policy."
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "南京、宁波率先推出亿元消费券，其他地方或“因城施策”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Nanjing and Ningbo pioneered Rmb0m in consumer bonds, or RmbH & quot; elsewhere or "Incheshi";;
var msg_desc = "3月13日，江苏省南京市和浙江省宁波市分别提出，将发放总额过亿元的消费券，释放居民消费潜力，推动服务业复苏。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
