多国首脑面临感染风险，特朗普真的不测一下吗？。
The heads of state are at risk of infection. Is Trump really not doing anything?
肖恩。
Sean.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：Flickr记者 | 肖恩“ 特朗普曾自称有洁癖，经常洗手，还要用吸管喝水。
Source: Flickr reporter and # 124Sean. "Trump once claimed to be a neat freak, washing his hands often and drinking from a straw.
美媒称他是美国历史上最害怕细菌的领导人。
The American media said he was the most bacteria-fearing leader in American history.
”新冠肺炎疫情已然牢牢占据全球媒体头条。
The new crown pneumonia epidemic has made headlines around the world.
而最初美国总统特朗普却总是在言辞中显得“不以为意”，甚至多次将其与季节性流感做类比。
At first, however, US President Trump has always been "dismissive" in his rhetoric, even repeatedly drawing parallels with seasonal flu.
但美国有线电视新闻网（CNN）13日援引特朗普身边人士透露，他实际上对自己曾与确诊患者密切接触感到很担心。
But CNN quoted people close to Trump on the 13th and said he was actually worried about his close contact with patients diagnosed.
上周末曾与特朗普见面的巴西总统府发言人沃恩加藤（Fabio Wajngarten）12日被确诊感染。
Fabio Wajngarten, spokesman for the Brazilian presidential palace who met Trump last weekend, was diagnosed with the infection on Tuesday.
同行的巴西总统博索纳罗（Jair Bolsonaro）和访美代表团的其他成员也接受了检测，暂时没有人出现症状。
The Brazilian president, Jair Bolsonaro, and other members of the visiting US delegation were also tested and no symptoms were reported.
博索纳罗在访美期间曾与特朗普共进晚餐。
Bossonaro had dinner with Trump during his visit to the US.
据英国《卫报》报道，特朗普12日在会见爱尔兰总理瓦拉德卡（Leo Varadkar）时，两人没有握手，而是互相鞠了个躬。
When Trump met with Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar on the 12th, they did not shake hands, but bowed to each other, the Guardian reported.
《新闻周刊》在2017年的一篇报道中提到，特朗普曾自称有洁癖，经常洗手，还要用吸管喝水。
In a 2017 report, Newsweek noted that Trump claimed to be a neat freak, washing his hands regularly and drinking from a straw.
政治新闻网站Politico去年也有类似报道：特朗普是美国历史上最害怕细菌的领导人。
Politico, the political news website, reported the same thing last year: Trump is the most germ-fearing leader in American history.
当年竞选期间他握完手后的第一件事就是要助理递上洗手液；一旦发现空军一号上有人咳嗽就会派出军医。
The first thing he did during the campaign was for the assistant to hand over hand sanitizer; once someone on Air Force One was found coughing, he would send a medic.
他身边的官员透露，一旦身边有人咳嗽或打喷嚏，特朗普就会立马做出让人离他远一点的手势。
Officials close to him revealed that once someone around him coughed or sneezed, Trump would gesture away from him.
也有分析称，特朗普想方设法淡化疫情，明显是试图疫情对美国经济的冲击最小化，以免影响他的连任之路。
Some analysts say Trump has sought to play down the epidemic, apparently in an attempt to minimize its impact on the US economy, without jeopardizing his chances of re-election.
在美国大选步步逼近的时刻，新冠疫情也成为美国政客斗争的“抓手”。
As the US election nears, the new crown has become a major battleground for American politicians.
特朗普的政治对手、民主党总统参选人拜登在12日的演讲中对特朗普前一天发布的欧洲旅行禁令大肆谴责，并称任何轻视疫情或是传播错误信息的做法都只会导致疫情恶化。
Trump's political opponent, Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden, in a speech on the 12th, denounced Trump's European travel ban issued the day before, saying that any effort to downplay the epidemic or spread misinformation would only exacerbate the epidemic.
在12日早些时候，特朗普依然强调他并不担心自己可能接触到病毒。
Earlier today, Trump stressed that he was not worried about his possible exposure to the virus.
特朗普表示，他与博索纳罗吃晚餐时是挨着坐的，不清楚沃恩加藤是否在场，但他们没有做什么不寻常的事，因此没有什么值得担心的。
Trump says he sat next to Bosonaro at dinner, not knowing if Mr. Vorngarten was there, but they did nothing unusual, so there was nothing to worry about.
白宫发言人格里沙姆（Stephanie Grisham）随后也发声明称，特朗普和副总统彭斯与沃恩加藤几乎没有交流，也没有出现任何疑似症状。
White House spokesman Stephanie Grisham later declared that Trump and Vice President Burns had little communication with Mr. Vorngarten and had no suspected symptoms.
因此不需要接受检测。
Therefore, no tests are required.
但从沃恩加藤在社交媒体上传的合影中可以看到，他就站在特朗普的身边，同时在场的还有彭斯。
But, as Vaughattan can see in a group photo uploaded on social media, he is standing next to Trump, along with Burns.
在另一个现场视频中，博索纳罗、特朗普和其他代表团成员聚在一起交流，而沃恩加藤就站在特朗普身后。
In another live video, Bosonaro, Trump, and other members of the delegation come together to talk, and Vaugharten is standing behind Trump.
右一为沃恩加藤。
On the right is Vaugharten.
图片来源：福克斯新闻网其他与巴西代表团有接触的美国官员则表示将自我隔离，包括佛罗里达州共和党参议员斯科特（Rick Scott）和与特朗普交流密切的南卡罗来纳州参议员格雷厄姆（Lindsey Graham）。
Source: Other U. S. officials contacted by the Brazilian delegation on Fox News said they would isolate themselves, including Republican Senator Rick Scott of Florida and Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, who interacted closely with Trump.
斯科特发声明称，医生给他的建议是感染风险很低，无需检测或隔离，但秉着对美国人民的健康和安全，他仍决定自我隔离。
Scott said in a statement that doctors advised him that the risk of infection was too low to require testing or isolation, but he decided to isolate himself in the interest of the health and safety of the American people.
此外，本周以来，至少5名国会议员因参加上个月底的保守政治行动会议（CPAC）时与一名确诊者曾有密切接触而自我隔离，其中就包括特朗普新任命的白宫幕僚长梅多斯（Mark Meadows）。
Moreover, since this week, at least five members of Congress, including Trump's newly appointed Chief of Staff, Mark Meadows, have been isolated from a confirmed person for attending the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) at the end of last month.
特朗普也参加了这场活动，但据称没有与确诊者直接接触过。
Trump also took part in the campaign, but is said to have had no direct contact with those diagnosed.
不过，5名自我隔离的议员中有2人最近都与特朗普有过亲密接触，佛罗里达州众议员盖茨（Matt Gaetz）曾与他共同搭乘空军一号。
However, two of the five self-isolating members of Congress have recently been in close contact with Trump, with whom Florida Representative Matt Gaetz used to ride on Air Force One.
盖茨还与沃恩加藤有过交流，但他10日表示自己新冠病毒检测呈阴性。
Gates also had exchanges with Vaugharten, but he said on the 10th he tested negative for the new crown virus.
众议院议长、民主党人佩洛西也曾呼吁特朗普接受检测，但白宫始终坚称特朗普健康状况极好，无需接受检测世界卫生组织（WHO）表示，新冠病毒似乎对60岁以上且本身已患有其他疾病的人更危险。
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, a Democrat, has also called for Trump to be tested, but the White House has always insisted Trump is in excellent health and does not need to be tested.
今年73岁的特朗普近来在公开场合露面时并未展现出明显的不适状态。
Trump, 73, has shown no apparent discomfort in his recent public appearances.
去年11月白宫公布的体检结果显示，特朗普身体健康，“充满活力”。
A White House medical exam released last November found Trump to be in good health and "vibrant."
根据美国约翰·霍普金斯大学发布的实时统计数据，截至美东时间12日22时（北京时间13日10时），美国累计新冠肺炎确诊病例1663例，死亡40例。
According to real-time statistics released by Johns Hopkins University, there were 1,663 confirmed cases of pneumonia and 40 deaths in the United States as of 2200 hours (10: 00 Beijing time) on Tuesday.
病毒面前，人人平等，位高权重的各国政要们也无法“免疫”。
In the face of the virus, all are equal, high-ranking politicians can not be "immune."
除了特朗普和博索纳罗，加拿大总理特鲁多的妻子也在12日被确诊。
In addition to Trump and Bosonaro, Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau's wife was diagnosed on the 12th.
特鲁多办公室当天发表声明称，总理将开始自我隔离14天，但由于尚未出现任何症状，医生建议无需进行检测。
Trudeau's office issued a statement the same day, said the Prime Minister will start self-isolation for 14 days, but as no symptoms have yet emerged, doctors recommended that no tests.
此前有消息称，柬埔寨首相洪森因为亲自赴港口迎接“威士特丹号”邮轮乘客而感染。
It had previously been reported that Cambodia's prime minister, Hun Sen, had been infected by a personal visit to the port to greet passengers on board the Rotterdam liner.
但洪森13日上午现身国会全体会议，打破谣言。
But Hun Sen 13 morning appeared in the plenary session of Congress to break the rumor.
澳大利亚内政部长达顿（Peter Dutton）也在13日确诊，而三天前他刚刚与总理莫里森、财政部长弗莱登伯格及其他内阁成员一起开会。
Peter Dutton, Australia's interior minister, was also diagnosed on the 13th, just three days after meeting with Prime Minister Morrison, Finance Minister Frydenberg and other cabinet members.
据悉当时他未佩戴口罩。
He was reportedly not wearing a mask.
疫情严重的伊朗有至少七名高官确诊，包括第一副总统贾汉吉里以及女副总统埃卜特卡尔。
At least seven senior officials, including First Vice President Jahangiri and Vice-President Ebtkar, have been confirmed in the highly affected country.
在埃卜特卡尔确诊前一天，她还未戴口罩，与伊朗总统鲁哈尼以及多位部长共同出席了在德黑兰举行的内阁会议。
The day before her diagnosis, she was not wearing a mask and attended a cabinet meeting in Tehran with Iranian President Hassan Rouhani and a number of ministers.
伊朗最高领袖哈梅内伊顾问委员会的一名委员因新冠肺炎不治身亡。
A member of Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei's advisory council has died of pneumonia.
同样被确诊的还有英国卫生部副部长多里斯（Nadine Dorries），而在确诊当天她还跟首相约翰逊一同参加了招待会。
Also confirmed was Nadine Dorries, deputy health minister, who attended a reception with Prime Minister Johnson on the day of the diagnosis.
斯洛伐克总理佩列格里尼（Peter Pellegrini）上月底曾因高烧和急性上呼吸道感染被送往医院，随后有消息称他感染新冠肺炎。
Slovak Prime Minister Peter Pellegrini was taken to hospital late last month with a high fever and an acute upper respiratory infection, followed by reports of a new crown pneumonia.
但佩列格里尼亲自在社交媒体上辟谣称“一派胡言”。
But Mr Pellegrini himself dismissed the rumors on social media as "bunk."
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
多国首脑面临感染风险，特朗普真的不测一下吗？。
The heads of state are at risk of infection. Is Trump really not doing anything?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "多国首脑面临感染风险，特朗普真的不测一下吗？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Trump?
var msg_desc = "特朗普曾自称有洁癖，经常洗手，还要用吸管喝水。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Trump claims to be a neat freak, washing his hands often and drinking from a straw.
美媒称他是美国历史上最害怕细菌的领导人。
The American media said he was the most bacteria-fearing leader in American history.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
