那些一直短缺的物资，都是怎样运进武汉的？。
How did the supplies, which had been in short supply, get into Wuhan?
蒋苡芯 李屾淼。
Jiang Zhenzhi Li Miao.
新周刊                      。
New Weekly.
新周刊。
New Weekly.
《新周刊》创刊于1996年8月18日，由南方出版传媒股份有限公司主管、主办，以“中国最新锐的生活方式周刊”为定位，推出过一系列极具影响力的专题报道，是中国期刊市场最具代表性和影响力的杂志之一，享有"话题策源地"的美誉。
New Weekly, founded on 18 August 1996 and hosted by Southern Publishing and Media, Inc., has a range of influential features targeted at China's Newest Lifestyle Weekly. It is one of the most representative and influential magazines in the Chinese periodical market, and enjoys the reputation of having RTS.
。
.
1月30日上午，载有救援物资的飞机抵达中国无锡。
On the morning of January 30, a plane carrying relief supplies arrived in Wuxi, China.
/ 采访对象供图在这场抗击疫情的战役中，货车司机、在美华人华侨、中国互联网企业、广州导游团……他们放下家人，逆行赶往重灾疫区接力运送救援物资、在国内外四处筹集医疗防护用品。
In the battle against the epidemic, truck drivers, overseas Chinese in the United States, Chinese Internet companies, and the Guangzhou tourist group... They left their families behind and rushed back to the disaster area to bring relief supplies and collect medical supplies in and around the country.
他们知道，自己一定要竭力追赶时间。
They knew they must try to catch up with the time.
街道空了、人群散了，但被疫情搅动的春节，并不宁静。
The streets were empty and the crowd dispersed, but the Spring Festival, disturbed by the epidemic, was not peaceful.
每天更新的确诊、死亡人数在时刻抓紧每个人的呼吸节奏，由武汉等疫区医院接连发出的物资短缺信息更是像以一张张“求命符”，催促着刻不容缓的支援、救援。
The daily update of the number of confirmed deaths in each person's breathing rhythm at all times, from Wuhan and other epidemic areas hospital issue one after another material shortages information is like a "survival character", urging the urgent support, rescue.
自大年三十前后，众多企业、民间的自发救援行动接连开展。
Since the Chinese New Year's Eve, many enterprises, non-governmental rescue operations have been launched successively.
货车司机、在美华人华侨、中国互联网企业、广州导游团……他们放下家人，逆行赶往重灾疫区接力运送救援物资、在国内外四处筹集医疗防护用品。
Truck drivers, Chinese in the United States, Chinese Internet enterprises, Guangzhou tour group... They put down their families, retrograde to the disaster areas relay to deliver relief supplies, and around the world to raise medical protection supplies.
他们知道，这是一场战役，自己一定要竭力追赶时间。
They knew it was a battle, and they would try to catch up with it.
一定要。
I must.
他们知道，这是一场战役，自己一定要竭力追赶时间。
They knew it was a battle, and they would try to catch up with it.
/ 图虫创意北京到武汉火神山2名货车司机30个小时基建物资货运接力1月24日，除夕夜。
Creativity A 30-hour freight relay between Beijing and Wuhan Huoshen Mountain for two truck drivers on January 24, the New Year's Eve.
武汉蔡甸火神山医院相关设计方案完成当天中午，货车司机孙洋（化名）接到了一个中国移动北京公司打来的电话。
Wuhan Cai dian fire god mountain hospital completed the relevant design scheme at noon, truck driver Sun Yang (alias) received a call from China Mobile Beijing Company.
“有一批基站设备需紧急送往武汉用于火神山医院建设，明天前需送达，很急，我们现在找不到司机，你能不能跑一趟？”孙洋从北京运送至武汉的设备物资，该设备用于火神山首个5G通讯基站建设。
"There is a batch of base station equipment to be sent to Wuhan for the construction of Fo Shen Mountain Hospital. It needs to be delivered by tomorrow. It is urgent.
/ 采访对象供图彼时，孙洋正在超市为除夕夜的晚餐做采购准备。
At that time, Sun Yang was making preparations for the New Year's Eve dinner.
他老家位于河南，在北京开货车已有5年，平时主要靠一些网络平台或物流公司合作接单。
His hometown is located in Henan, in Beijing has been driving trucks for five years, usually relying on a number of network platforms or logistics companies to cooperate to receive orders.
由于今年在北京超市做检货员的妻子除夕夜加班，故两人未返河南老家。
The two did not return to their hometown in Henan because their wives worked overtime on New Year's Eve this year.
“我那几天关注新闻，知道武汉的疫情很严重，他们又很着急，钱的事都另说了，能跑一趟就跑一趟吧，返程或许还能回老家一趟。
"I have been following the news these days and know that Wuhan is very serious epidemic, they are very anxious, money has been said about the matter, can run a trip to run, perhaps return home a trip.
” 随即，他放下购物框中的肉菜，转而买了泡面、火腿肠等补给，随即回家驱车赶往中国移动位于北京方庄的仓库取货——共15箱（高2米、宽1.2米），内装30余个机柜设备，用于火神山医院首个5G基站建设。
"He then dropped the meat dishes from the shopping boxes and bought noodles, ham and sausages, then drove home to China Mobile's warehouse in Fangzhuang, China Mobile, 15 boxes (2 meters high and 1.2 meters wide) containing more than 30 cabinets for the construction of the first 5G base station at Mount Huoshen Hospital.
给妻子打了电话，“她很担心让我回去，但我当时已经上路了。
"She was afraid to let me go back, but I was on my way.
”从北京出发时是下午2点，孙洋前一天晚上已从新闻上知道武汉已经实施交通管制、外地车辆无法进城的消息，“我的车进不去，只能先往那个方向赶，到时候可能有人会来接应我。
"It was 2: 00 p.m. when I set out from Beijing, and Sun Yang had heard on the news the night before that Wuhan had imposed traffic control and that traffic was not allowed into the city.
”下午5点左右，孙洋抵达河北衡水服务区。
"Around 5pm, Sun Yang arrived at the Hebei Hengshui service area.
已是晚饭时间，他从服务站借来开水，烫了方便面和火腿肠当作自己的年夜饭。
It was dinnertime and he borrowed boiling water from the service station and cooked himself instant noodles and sausages.
正准备吃时，接到家中父亲的电话，“村子已经封路了不让进，你跑完车别回来了。
As you were getting ready to eat, I got a call from my father at home. "The village has been closed.
”孙洋只声应好，他没敢告诉父亲，自己此行的目的地是疫情最重的武汉。
"Sun Yang answered, not daring to tell his father that the destination of his trip was Wuhan, the worst hit.
服务区也仅剩两三个工作人员在负责加油，孙洋看到，他们都戴上了口罩。
The service area also has only two or three staff members in charge of refuelling, Sun Yang saw that they were wearing masks.
停歇的十几分钟时间里，也仅有他一辆车出现在那儿。
Only one of his cars was there during the ten minutes of rest.
工作人员问他：“大过年的怎么还跑？”孙洋答送救灾物资时，对方回屋里找了个口罩给他，说了句“那边灾情严重，你自己多注意。
Staff asked him: "The New Year's Day how to run?" Sun Yang-tat sent relief materials, the other side of the house found a mask for him, said: "That disaster is serious there, you pay more attention to yourself.
”另一个电话紧接着进来，“你将物资送到武汉东西湖收费站，德邦物流的快递员会在那边接应。
"Another phone call came in next," You take the supplies to the east-west lake toll station in Wuhan, where the express man from Debon Logistics will meet you.
“从北京出发时还是晴天，越往河北、河南走，天气就变得越发雾蒙蒙，夜晚高速上的能见度极地，孙洋打着大灯，强撑着精神，“不敢太慢耽搁时间，又不敢太快怕有什么危险。
"It's still sunny when we set out from Beijing, and as we walk further north and south of the river, the weather becomes more foggy. Visibility in the polar regions at night is very hazy. Sun Yang uses his headlights and tries to hold his spirits up
”进入湖北境内，天已蒙蒙亮，“气温变得更为阴冷，下起了小雨。
"Inside Hubei province, it was already dark," the temperature became even colder and it began to rain.
”行经近20个小时，1132公里路程，孙洋于1月25日下午三点抵达武汉东西湖收费站，德邦物流武汉车队驾驶教练员闫东方已在那儿等待近6个小时。
"After nearly 20 hours, 1132 km journey, Sun Yang arrives at the Wuhan East-West Lake toll booth at 3 p.m. on January 25, and the coach of the Wuhan Debang Logistics Base Yan Eastern has been waiting there for nearly six hours.
家在武汉市区的闫东方于大年初一凌晨2点接到车队总监电话，“白天会有一批5G通讯设备从北京运来，他进不了城，你去接应，需立马送往火神山医院。
Yan Yan Eastern in Wuhan City District received a call from the convoy director at 2 a.m. on the first day of the New Year, "during the day a group of 5G communications equipment will be sent from Beijing, he can not enter the city, you to answer, need to be immediately sent to Mount Fire Hospital.
”1月25日下午，孙洋和闫东方在武汉西湖东收费站交接物资。
"January 25 afternoon, Sun Yang and Yan Eastern in Wuhan West Lake East toll collection point transfer materials.
/ 采访对象供图闫东方说，妻子在听闻他第二天还要出门送货时，立即表露出了阻止和担心，“外面传播的病情这么严重，你能不能不去？”他告诉妻子，“员工春节大多都回家放假，这时候我不去谁去呢，去帮武汉一把。
Yan Yan Eastern said that when his wife heard that he had to go out to deliver goods the next day, immediately showed their stop and worry, "spread so serious outside, you can not go?" He told his wife, "the majority of the Spring Festival staff home holiday, who I do not go to this time to help Wuhan.
”早上8点，闫东方戴上口罩驱车赶往公司调取货车，沿路的武汉没有半点春节的喜庆气息，“就像一座空城，看不到车，也看不到人。
"At 8 a.m., Yan Eastern wear masks drive to the company to pick up trucks, along the road Wuhan does not have the festive atmosphere of the Spring Festival," like an empty city, no cars, no see people.
”1个多小时后，闫东方抵达武汉东西湖收费站。
"1 hour after Yan Eastern arrived at Wuhan East West Lake toll station.
等待的时间，他看见交警、公安、高速路政在查来往车辆，一个开着皖牌出租车的女司机头天送客到武汉，却因封城无法返回。
Waiting time, he saw traffic police, public security, expressway in the traffic, a woman driver driving Anhui brand taxi to Wuhan the day before, but could not return due to the closure of the city.
“她一直在哭，说想要回去。
"She's been crying and saying she wants to go back.
但交警告诉她现在疫情严重，为防止传播不允许出城，让她掉头到武汉东西湖区先找个地方住下。
But traffic police told her that the epidemic is now serious, in order to prevent the spread of not allowed out of the city, let her head to Wuhan East and West Lake first find a place to live.
”1月25日下午，孙洋和闫东方在武汉西湖东收费站交接物资，在此地值勤的交警、高速路政协助卸货。
"January 25 afternoon, Sun Yang and Yan Eastern in Wuhan West Lake East toll collection point handing over goods, on duty here traffic police, highway assistance unloading.
/采访对象供图下午3点物资交接顺利后，孙洋往北返回北京，闫东方本打算立即将物资运往30公里外的火神山医院，却突然联系不上医院方的接收人。
After the smooth handing over of the goods at 3: 00 pm, the Sun Yang returned to Beijing, Yan Eastern had intended to immediately transport the materials to the Mount Fire Hospital 30 km away, but suddenly could not contact the hospital's recipients.
“载货回公司等了将近一个小时，确认了最终的电话和地址后，我就赶紧送过去。
"After waiting for nearly an hour to get the goods back to the company and confirm the final call and address, I rushed to deliver it.
”大年初一晚上8点，历时近30个小时后，这批物资最终抵达火神山。
"It took nearly 30 hours at 8 p.m. on New Year's Day before the goods finally arrived at Mount Fire.
日本、印度到英国、迪拜超百名中国导游从国外人肉带物资回国同是1月24日，随着文化旅游部发出的通知生效，除已经出发的旅行团，前往国内外的所有线路旅游团业务暂停，广州导游敬一心（化名）和她的所有同行一起进入失业状态。
More than 100 Chinese tour guides from Japan, India to Britain and Dubai returned home with human flesh and materials from overseas.With the announcement from the Ministry of Culture and Tourism coming into effect on January 24, Guang Jing Jin (alias), a tourist guide from Guangzhou, along with all her colleagues, went into unemployment.
除了这个打击外，原本喜庆的日子几乎没有任何好消息。
Apart from this blow, there was little good news on what had been a joyous day.
1月24日当天傍晚的最新数据显示，全国确诊887例新型冠状病毒肺炎，比前一天多了上百例，各省陆续启动突发公共卫生事件一级响应，武汉当地医院用品食品告急，医生护士不堪重负，崩溃哭泣的视频全网流传。
The latest statistics released on the evening of January 24 showed that 887 new cases of coronavirus pneumonia had been confirmed nationwide, hundreds more than the previous day. Every province had launched a first-level response to a public health emergency.
在各路坏消息围绕下，焦躁不安的敬一心突然觉得自己应该做点事。
Surrounded by bad news, the restless reverence suddenly felt it was time to do something.
负责接机的人从早上6点接到半夜2点，没离开过机场。
The person in charge of picking up the plane didn't leave the airport from 6: 00am to 2: 00am.
/采访对象供图敬一心想，在文化旅游部通知下发前已经带团出国的导游们分散在世界各地，按规定他们还要按合同完成旅程。
The interviewee wanted to show that the tour guides who had taken the tour abroad before the notice of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism were scattered all over the world.
疫区急需口罩、酒精等防护用品，“但国内几乎已经很难买到，我想能不能让这些导游们各自在所在地进行收购。
Epidemic areas are in urgent need of masks, alcohol and other protective equipment. "But it is almost impossible to buy them at home.
”正好一个导游同行群里有人也在表达关切，敬一心当即决定在群里号召大家一起筹集捐款和物资。
Just as one of the group of tour guides was expressing concern, he immediately decided to call upon everyone in the group to raise money and supplies.
两分钟不到，一个相识的朋友便转给她五百块让她自行处置，“别的什么话也没说。
In less than two minutes, a friend who had known her passed to her five hundred dollars for her to dispose of.
”敬一心大受鼓舞，拉上自己丈夫及两个未曾谋面但积极响应的同行各自去募捐，当晚收了将近30万元。
Encouraged, the king drew in his own husband and two responsive colleagues, who had not met, and collected nearly 300,000 yuan for the evening.
散布在世界各地的中国导游，各自从所在地往国内搬口罩。
Chinese tour guides scattered all over the world move face masks from their home countries.
/ 采访对象供图为与身处地球不同时区的导游们保持联系，敬一心又拉了三个导游“入伙”，7个人一连四天每天只睡了两三个小时。
2007-9-24 16: 48 The interviewee, who keeps in touch with the tour guides in different time zones of the earth, paid homage to three more guides, seven of whom slept only two or three hours a day for four days.
微信上也突然多出了一百多个群，每个群功能不同。
Suddenly there were more than a hundred groups on the micromail, each with a different function.
“因为口罩标准复杂，各地价格不一，每种货品，都要先拿给专业人士看是否符合一线医用标准，价格是否合理，然后再下单。
"Because of the complexity of the mask standards and the price varies from place to place, each item has to be shown to a professional to see if it meets the first-line medical standards, at a reasonable price, before ordering it.
”境外口罩的价格随着国内形势也在发生着变化。
The price of foreign masks is also changing with the domestic situation.
在日本，仅医用口罩这一物资，就有导游遇见过不到0.2元/个和2.5元/个的价格。
In Japan, medical masks alone have come across prices of less than 0.2 yuan / unit and 2.5 yuan / unit.
相比之下，疫区急缺的防护服在往常并不常见，出售的地方屈指可数。
In contrast, emergency protective clothing in affected areas is not common as usual, with few places to sell.
敬一心说，她发出号召后，在国外的导游们一家家药店走访询问。
With all her heart, she issued a call, foreign tour guides in pharmacies to visit the inquiry.
“这里一两件，那里三四件地凑。
"One or two here, three or four pieces there.
”各地导游陆续将物资运送回国。
Tourist guides have been delivering supplies home.
/ 采访对象供图带团同时还兼顾做医用品采购，各路导游也获得了游客的理解支持。
/ The interviewee is for the group and also for the purchase of medical supplies. The tour guides also get the understanding support of the tourists.
“他们许多人在回程中帮忙搬货，托运时也积极地让出自己的行李配额。
"Many of them help carry goods on their return journeys and actively give up their baggage allowance when they check in.
”截至1月30日，参与此次捐赠的人次达1500人（多为旅游从业者和家人），合计募捐70余万元。
Up to January 30, 1,500 people, mostly tour operators and family members, had participated in the donation, raising more than 700,000 yuan.
共从英国和日本购入防护服1250件（其中日本1050件，英国200件），超10万只口罩也被散布在南非、突尼斯、印度、迪拜、巴丹岛、莫斯科等地的逾百名中国导游陆续人肉带回——这是最快的办法。
A total of 1,250 suits (1,050 in Japan and 200 in Britain) were purchased from the UK and Japan, and more than 100,000 masks were brought back by more than 100 Chinese guides in South Africa, Tunisia, India, Dubai, Batan and Moscow - the quickest way.
导游带着口罩下飞机后会在机场当场分拣并通过快递发出。
The guide takes off the plane wearing a mask and picks it up at the airport and sends it by express.
/采访对象供图敬一心说，团队中专门有人驻守在机场附近的酒店，一有带货的导游航班到达便立即去接货。
/ Interviewees like to say that there are people on the team who are stationed at hotels near the airport and pick up the goods as soon as a guided tour arrives.
“分拣打包需要的人手，大多临时在导游群里喊，谁方便就临时赶到机场，飞机落地就开始干活。
"Most of the people who need to be sorted and packed are shouting in the guide groups that it is convenient to arrive at the airport and get down to work.
”大批量医疗卫生用品的运回一度在广州机场引起海关注意。
The return of large quantities of medical supplies once attracted Customs attention at Guangzhou airport.
听说情况后，海关当即决定特事特办，派人跟着敬一心团队成员到顺丰快递网点走绿色通道发货。
Upon hearing of the situation, the Customs immediately decided to special office, send people to follow the team members to Shunfeng express delivery through the green channel.
“他们亲眼确认我们把货发往疫区各家求助医院后，便不再过问。
"They confirmed with their own eyes that we had stopped asking after we sent the goods to the hospitals in the affected areas.
”经过多方联络,这些物资将以“一群人一件事，我们都是旅游从业者”的名义，对接捐赠给湖北地方30家医院,以及直接支援2家广州医院(南方医科大学第三附属医院,广州医科大学附属第一医院)。
After extensive liaison, the supplies will be donated to 30 hospitals in Hubei Province in the name of "one thing for a group of people, we are all tour operators," as well as direct support to two Guangzhou hospitals (the Third Affiliated Hospital of Southern Medical University and the First Hospital of Guangzhou Medical University).
由导游背回的物资运往南方医科大学第三附属医院。
The materials were transported by tour guide to the Third Affiliated Hospital of the Southern Medical University.
/采访对象供图更多的求助信息也在涌进，每遇到来电希望获得捐赠的医疗机构人员，敬一心说，自己都要完成一套特别的核查程序——要求出示工作证，说明医院大小规模，多少医护人员，收治了多少疑似确诊病人。
For each caller who wishes to receive a donation, he or she says he or she has to complete a special set of verification procedures - requiring a work permit indicating the size of the hospital, the number of medical staff, and the number of patients suspected of being diagnosed.
她根据相关情况分配发货数量，并在最后要受捐人说上一句，“你摸着良心用人格担保说你没有骗我。
She assigned the shipment according to the circumstances, and at the end she was asked to say, "You touch your conscience and vouch for your integrity that you have not lied to me.
”这几天在物资统筹间连轴转，敬一心也被骗过。
"The last few days in the material coordination between the axis, respect for the whole mind was also cheated.
刚开始就有人盗用敬一心的微信头像名称，及朋友圈里收货的一些照片，发到自己朋友圈里，自称委托导游代购医用品捐给疫区，借此骗取捐款。
At the beginning, someone embezzled the name of the micro-letter and some photos of the goods received in the circle of friends. They sent some photos to their friends' circle, claiming to have entrusted the guide to donate medical supplies to the epidemic area in order to defraud them of donations.
或者直接打电话给敬一心等人，说湖北的医院需要援助，给个假地址骗取物资。
Or directly to Jing as one man to wait, said the hospital in Hubei need assistance, give a false address to cheat material.
起初因为忙碌，敬一心等人来不及核查，反应过来后报了警，“但一时半会追回已无望。
At first because of busy, respect for people do not have enough time to check, the response reported to the police, "but soon will be no hope of recovery.
”为防类似事件重演，他们拉了一个叫“纪检委”的群，让专人在募捐大群里一个个翻看朋友圈，将可疑的人员剔除。
To prevent similar incidents from happening again, they enlisted a group called "disciplinary committee," which asked people to sift through the crowd to weed out suspicious people.
被骗钱物一度让敬一心等人十分沮丧，“但当看到越来越多的货物落地通关发向疫区，开始投入一线使用后，些许不悦一扫而空。
At one point, people were frustrated by being tricked into waiting. "But when they saw more and more goods arriving at customs and clearing the affected areas, they started using them first-hand, a little bit of unhappiness was swept away.
”活动发起人之一在湖北接货，湖北一线医院已经用上了导游们带回国的物资。
"One of the promoters picked up the goods in Hubei, the first-line hospital in Hubei Province, which used materials taken home by the guides.
/ 采访对象供图一连四五天，十几万个口罩经手分发。
/ For four or five days, hundreds of thousands of masks were distributed.
一天，敬一心团队中的一名成员忽然在群里问了一句，“谁还有口罩能卖我一些？”“这话看似莫名其妙，但确实是我们这几个人的苦恼。
One day, a member of the respected group suddenly asked in the group, "Who else has a mask to sell me?"
”前几日，敬一心的父母给她打电话：“看你在网上捐了那么多口罩，也不给家里留点，我们老了无所谓，孙子总得保证吧？”她一个没留。
"The other day, her respectful parents called her and said," Look at all the masks you donated online, and don't leave any room at home.
“这些货还是不能动，不然辜负了那么多同行的信任。
"These goods are still unable to move, or they will not live up to the trust of so many peers.
”核心发起人的七人群里，除了自己丈夫，其他人敬一心没见过也不认识。
Of the seven people who formed the core group, none other than her husband had ever seen or known.
但大家已经跟这次援助过的多家医院的医生约好，“春暖花开后，去湖北走走。
But everyone has already made an appointment with the doctors of the many hospitals who have helped, "After spring flowers bloom, go to Hubei walk.
”多年带国际团，足迹遍布多国的敬一心，还从来没去过湖北。
For years he led international tours, traveled with respect from many countries, and never travelled to Hubei.
由导游背回的物资于1月30日捐赠给湖北黄冈市团风县人民医院500个口罩。
On January 30, the materials returned by the guide were donated to 500 masks in Tulianfeng County People's Hospital in Huanggang City, Hubei Province.
/ 采访对象供图西雅图到芝加哥5天筹10万余件 美国首架运送防疫物资包机抵鄂原本属于春节假期的宁静，连续被国内疫情的新闻、物资短缺的信息、美国华人群里各方要募捐消息、和一个来自北京的电话打破。
/ [^ # 39 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105] / vt. More than 100,000 charter flights carrying epidemic prevention materials arrived in the United States during the Spring Festival holiday season.
金治曾于2004年在美读书，后在西雅图微软总部工作，现供职于国内一点资讯公司。
Kim, who studied in the United States in 2004 and worked at Microsoft's headquarters in Seattle, now works for a domestic information company.
此次再度赴西雅图是打算和家人一起度假。
I'm going to Seattle again for a vacation with my family.
连日在美关注国内疫情的消息，金治愈发不安，“一直没想到这么厉害”。
Day after day in the United States to follow the news of the domestic epidemic, King cured restless, "has never thought so fierce."
他逐渐在多个华人群内发现很大的矛盾点，“大家都在通过药店或自己的方式去购买物资，却不知如何更快把物资捐赠到国内，交到医生、护士这些最需要的人手里。
"People are buying things through pharmacies or in their own way, but they don't know how to donate it more quickly to the people who need it the most, doctors and nurses.
”美国西雅图时间1月24日凌晨2点（下文除特别注明外均为西雅图时间），金治接到公司老板CEO杨宇翔电话，“想给武汉捐献1个亿”，问金治想法。
At 2 a.m. (Seattle time, unless otherwise specified) January 24, King Ji received a phone call from Yang Yuxiang, the company's boss, "wanting to donate 100 million yuan to Wuhan," asking him for his thoughts.
金治回：“可以，但现在最重要的是把物资弄到疫区去，要不我们包架飞机，从美国先行将物资运送回国？”这一决定从提出到落实，仅花了不到7个小时。
Kim said: "Yes, but the most important thing now is to get the supplies to the affected areas, or we will charter the aircraft and ship the supplies from the United States first," a decision that took less than seven hours to implement.
当天上午9点左右，金治就托朋友通过包机中介公司找到一架1月28日要从美国西雅图飞往中国无锡执行拉货任务的波音747。
At around 9 a.m. that day, King asked his friend to find a Boeing 747 on a cargo trip from Seattle, USA to Wuxi, China, on January 28 through a charter agency.
飞机找到了，更重要和严峻的任务也摆到了金治面前。
The plane was found, and more important and serious tasks were laid before Kim.
“仅剩不到5天时间筹集货物，那装满飞机的物资从哪里来？而且美国周末不上班，这意味着，我们仅剩72个小时的时间。
"With less than five days left to collect the cargo, where is the cargo coming from when the plane is full, and the fact that the US is not going to work on weekends means we have only 72 hours left.
”他立即找了在美国工作的三个华人朋友帮忙，开始在近50个华人群内发布消息。
He immediately enlisted the help of three Chinese friends working in the US and began distributing messages among nearly 50 Chinese people.
“这几天在群里看到大家救援的热情这么高，深受感动！昨晚公司已决定包机波音747，货机装载量100吨，将大家在美国的抗疫物资运回国，直接运到武汉医院里。
Last night the company decided to charter a Boeing 747 with a cargo capacity of 100 tons to ship all the anti-epidemic materials from the United States directly to Wuhan Hospital.
目前飞机已经定好，1月28号从西雅图起飞……”起初有很多人响应，但质疑声很快就来。
The plane is now scheduled to take off from Seattle on January 28th... "At first there was a lot of response, but questions soon came.
“你周五才找到飞机，周二就要飞这怎么可能。
"You only found the plane on Friday. It's not possible to fly on Tuesday.
”“我在美国做中美跨境电商多年，美国这边的海关进度时间根本来不及。
"I've been doing Sino-US cross-border e-commerce in the US for many years, and the US side of the Customs schedule is too late.
”……甚至有一位美国华人医生联系金治说自己要捐赠10万口罩，后又在国内社交平台发帖称“经我本人证实，此次行动有假。
... "One Chinese-American doctor even contacted Kim and said he would donate 100,000 masks, then posted a message on a social networking site in China saying:" I personally confirm that the operation was fake.
”金治说，他理解绝大多数人的质疑。
Mr Kim said he understood the majority's scepticism.
因为包机决定是临时定下，国内外都还无任何官方信息，而飞机是通过第三方公司紧急租定，且美国包机公司要求看到实际货物内容后才可签订合同，所以租赁合同一时间确实无法拿出。
Since the air charter decisions were made on an ad hoc basis and no official information was available at home or abroad, the aircraft was chartered on an emergency basis through a third-party company and the United States charters were required to see the actual contents of the cargo before the contract could be signed, so the lease contract could not be released for a specific time.
协调之下，金治又让国内公司紧急出了中英文的公章证明，同时制作了募集海报在朋友圈、群内转播。
Under the coordination, Jinzhi let domestic companies out of the Chinese and English official seal certificate, and produced a collection of posters in groups of friends rebroadcast.
“由于当时误会很多，为了向大家证明此次行动的真实性，国内的几百名员工也临时加班，上线直播全程向大众呈现物资募集、运送情况。
"Since there was a lot of misunderstanding at the time, to prove the authenticity of the operation, hundreds of employees also temporarily worked overtime, live on-line to the public to show the collection and delivery of materials.
”海报上印有此次行动志愿者之一、美国华侨崔宸和徐佳琪的电话，崔宸说，周五那晚，质疑声和支持声的电话相伴接连打进，“你们这些骗子就是发国难财的”，“我们支持你们，手里有一批物资可以捐献……”“我当时和志愿者们讲，不必再去考虑那些杂音，最重要的是把这件事做成，”面对飞机起飞时间的迫在眉睫，金治说，1月24日晚上他们决定，第一批送往疫区的物资由公司全额出资购买。
He said that on Friday night, questions and supportive phone calls came in one after another. "You cheaters are rich," he said. "We supported you and we had a stock of materials to donate.
与此同时，也有更多在美留学、工作的华人志愿者加入物资筹集行动。
At the same time, more Chinese volunteers studying and working in the United States have joined the material mobilization campaign.
1月25日至26日两天，由于周末美国售卖医疗用品的大型企业都不上班，金治和志愿者们只能一边通过华人朋友联系购买渠道，一边沿街到超市、便利店用扫货的方式进行物资购买。
Two days from January 25 to 26, when large American businesses selling medical supplies stopped working, Kim and volunteers were forced to buy goods by sweeping the streets to supermarkets and convenience stores as they contacted Chinese friends to buy supplies.
为确认所要采购物品符合国内医疗使用标准，金治还在国内公司临时建了个“后援团“，团内成员由其公司员工组成，志愿者们可通过视频直播、图片等方式传回国内确认型号。
To confirm that the items to be procured meet domestic standards for medical use, Kim also temporarily set up a "support group" in a domestic company composed of its employees. Volunteers can send back home the type of confirmation via live video, pictures, etc.
物资被装上飞机。
The supplies were loaded onto the plane.
/ 受访者供图渠道方面的进展也并不顺利。
/ The flow of data from the interviewees was not going well either.
一些犹太商人手里有口罩，但“不给看货却要我们先打钱”，金治怕被骗只能作罢，更多的厂家要等到周一上班才能看货。
Some Jewish businessmen have masks in their hands, but "do not give goods but want us to beat money", Kim Zhi afraid of being cheated can only do, more manufacturers to wait until Monday to see goods.
“美国航空公司要求，周二起飞，周一下班前必须将物资运到机场。
"American Airlines is asking to take off on Tuesday and have to get supplies to the airport by Monday after work.
”金治每天仅睡3至4个小时，联系了近百家厂家，能实现的渠道仅有两三个，且货源主要集中在纽约、波士顿、亚特拉大。
King slept only three to four hours a day, contacted nearly a hundred manufacturers, and only two or three channels were available, with supply concentrated in New York, Boston and Atlanta.
事情直到周一早上才出现转机。
Things didn't turn around until Monday morning.
一家位于美国东南部阿拉巴马州的厂家回复称，有10万件左右医用防护服可以提供售卖。
A factory in Alabama, in the southeastern U.S., responded that about 100,000 pieces of medical protective clothing were available for sale.
金治说，这批物资十分重要。
Kim says the supplies are important.
“没有它飞机可能要放空回去。
"Without it the plane might have to go back empty.
我们也想过之后另一个方案——再包一架飞机，无论如何也要将物资送回国。
We also thought of another plan - to charter another plane and, in any case, send supplies home.
”但困难也接踵而至，由于西雅图位于美国西北角，物资一天时间内无法运达，金治及其他志愿者只得再次临时协调，让飞机从位于美国中部的芝加哥起飞。
But difficulties also ensued, with Seattle on the northwest corner and supplies out of reach within a day, and King George and other volunteers had to co-ordinate the plane once again from Chicago in the central United States.
“而从阿拉巴马工厂运货到芝加哥机场都要14个小时，且走货车路运已是最快的方法。
"It takes 14 hours from the Alabama plant to get to Chicago airport, and it's the quickest way to get there by truck.
”在美购买、募集物资装机中。
"In the United States to buy and collect supplies installed.
/ 采访对象供图“当时压力非常大，非常大，我们又临时找中介公司协调，你知道平时商业行为上出现这种临时调整是很可笑的，包机公司都怒了，说‘你这干啥玩呢？’。
2007-9-24 16: 19 [hide] "It was a very stressful and big time, and we had to find a temporary agency to coordinate it. You know this kind of temporary adjustment in business behavior is ridiculous.
”最终当地美国人知道详情后为之感动，帮忙协调才得以改地起飞，并协助了延迟飞机上货、海关清关工作。
Eventually, local Americans were moved by the details, helped coordinate the departure and helped delay cargo and customs clearance.
1月28日凌晨12点，金治和崔宸等人飞往芝加哥收货。
January 28 at 12 a.m., Jin Zhi and Choi Chen and others fly to Chicago to receive goods.
加之前两天的宣传，芝加哥周边城市的华人群体也开始陆续将自己的捐赠送往芝加哥机场。
Adding to the publicity of the previous two days, the Chinese community around Chicago began sending donations to Chicago airport.
“当天还有非常多其他各地的华人想提供口罩给我，但已经来不及赶上航班时间了。
"There were a lot of other Chinese people who wanted to supply me with masks, but it was too late to catch the flight.
”在美读书的高中生杨子霄听闻有包机送物资回国后，也从肯塔基州的路易斯维尔飞往芝加哥，沿着芝加哥市中心的街道跑了三家Walgreen(美国药店连锁销售机构)共买了207盒共2070个口罩。
When Yang Zixiao, an American high school student, heard about chartered flights to Chicago from Louisville, Kentucky, three Walgreen boxes of 2,070 masks were purchased along the streets of downtown Chicago.
“三家药店的口罩都被我一扫而空了，打出来的收据有近1.9米。
"I wiped out all three pharmacies' masks, typing out receipts of nearly 1.9 meters.
”1月28日晚，芝加哥机场下起了大雪。
It was snowing heavily at Chicago airport on the evening of January 28.
/采访对象供图最终，金治及志愿者们在美5天购买、筹集到物资共10万余件防护服、近5000只口罩、近5000只手套，均符合医用标准，占满可承载体积约600立方米的波音747货仓70%空间。
In the end, Jin Zhi and his volunteers spent five days buying and collecting more than 100,000 protective suits, nearly 5,000 masks and nearly 5,000 gloves, all of which meet medical standards and fill 70 percent of Boeing 747 warehouses with a capacity of about 600 cubic meters.
金治说，在所有物资中，有近10%为华人捐赠。
Kim said nearly 10 percent of all goods were donated by Chinese.
1月28日晚10点（芝加哥时间），芝加哥的机场下起了大雪，气温降至零下十几度。
At 10 p. m. (Chicago time) on January 28th, the Chicago airport was snowing heavily and temperatures had dropped to minus a dozen degrees.
崔宸说，看着物资全部运上飞机马上就要送回国，“我真的在一边哭一边笑，完全控制不住自己的情绪。
He said that looking at all the materials on board the aircraft will be sent back to China, "I really cry while laughing, completely unable to control their emotions.
”芝加哥时间1月28日晚12点，运送物资的飞机起飞后，金治（中蓝衣）和志愿者们在机场合照。
Kim Jong Il and the volunteers posed at the airport after the plane carrying supplies took off at 12 pm on January 28, Chicago time.
/ 采访对象供图北京时间1月30日上午7点，物资落地无锡苏南硕放机场，由中华思源工程扶贫基金会负责后续物资统筹捐赠工作，物流公司嘉里大通、韵达全程免费运送支援物资赴疫情前线。
2007-9-25 21: 48 The materials landed at Wuxi Su Nan Mu Fang Airport at 7: 00 a.m. January 30, 2007. The China Siyuan Project Poverty Alleviation Foundation is in charge of the follow-up donation work.
金治告诉记者，目前受捐赠的机构已包括武汉协和医院、武汉同济医院等医院。
Kim told reporters that so far the recipients have included hospitals such as Wuhan Concorde Hospital and Wuhan Tongji Hospital.
此外，物资还将继续运往黄冈市、荆州市等数十家湖北省医院。
In addition, materials will continue to be shipped to dozens of Huanggang City, Jingzhou and other hospitals in Hubei Province.
（应采访对象要求，文中孙洋、敬一心为化名）✎作者 |蒋苡芯 李屾淼欢迎分享到朋友圈未经许可禁止转载广告合作请联系微信号：xzk9681推荐 阅 读点 击 标 题 即 可 阅 读 全 文这部8分瘟疫纪录片里，都是幸存者留给我们的预警出门买不到口罩，没口罩不能出门，我太难了疫情一月记：我们的防疫大战原来如此惊心动魄真功夫没落是因为抄袭吗？是因为难吃啊忙于带盐的陈欧，把聚美优品齁死了面对风暴，不要让自己患上“情绪瘟疫“。
(Sun Yang, Jing Zhen is a pseudonym) Yang Zhen and Li Zhenmiao welcome to share the 8-point pestilence documentary, it is the warning left by the survivors to go out to buy masks, no masks, I difficult to go out.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
那些一直短缺的物资，都是怎样运进武汉的？。
How did the supplies, which had been in short supply, get into Wuhan?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "新周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; New Weekly & quot;;
var msg_title = "那些一直短缺的物资，都是怎样运进武汉的？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; How did all the goods that had been in short supply come to Wuhan?;
var msg_desc = "在这场抗击疫情的战役中，他们放下家人，逆行赶往重灾疫区。
var msg _ desc = & quot; In its battle against the epidemic, they left their families behind and headed retrograde to a severely affected area.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '这部8分瘟疫纪录片里，都是幸存者留给我们的预警',。
This 8-point pestilence documentary is a wake-up call and a reminder from survivors.
subject_name: '新周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '出门买不到口罩，没口罩不能出门，我太难了',。
I was at service when I went out and couldn't buy a mask, or go out without one.
subject_name: '新周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '疫情一月记：我们的防疫大战原来如此惊心动魄',。
A: Our immunization campaign was so exciting and exciting...
subject_name: '新周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '真功夫没落是因为抄袭吗？是因为难吃啊',。
Was genuine kung fu killed by plagiarism? Was it AT & amp; P's service?
subject_name: '新周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '忙于带盐的陈欧，把聚美优品齁死了',。
Chen, too busy with salt, has too much of Romeo's service.
subject_name: '新周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '面对风暴，不要让自己患上“情绪瘟疫”',。
AT & amp; # 39; t & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '新周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="新周刊";。
Var title = & quot; New Weekly & quot;;
