澳内政部长检测呈阳性，总理不打算隔离：还得去看球。
The Australian interior minister tested positive and the prime minister had no plans to isolate: he had to watch the ball.
潘金花。
Pan Jinhua.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
澳大利亚内政部长彼得·达顿（左）与总理莫里森 图片来源：AAP记者 ：潘金花“ 部长于5日在华盛顿会见了美加英澳新“五眼联盟”情报分享机构的安全官员。
Australian Interior Minister Peter Dutton (left) and Prime Minister Morrison. Source: AAP Reporter: Pan Jinhua "The minister met with security officials from the intelligence-sharing agency CANZ in Washington on Friday.
还和特朗普的女儿伊万卡以及美司法部长巴尔见面。
Meet Trump's daughter, Ivanka, and Attorney General Barr.
他于上周末返澳，并在本周乘坐商业航班从布里斯班飞往悉尼，参加内阁会议。
He returned to Australia over the weekend and flew from Brisbane to Sydney this week on a commercial flight to attend cabinet meetings.
”“今天早上我起床之后，有些发烧，嗓子也疼。
"" I got up this morning with a fever and a sore throat.
我立即联系了昆士兰州卫生部，并接受了新冠病毒检测。
I immediately contacted Queensland Health and was tested for the new Crown virus.
今天下午，昆士兰州卫生部告诉我，我的检测结果呈阳性。
This afternoon, Queensland Health told me that I tested positive.
”周五（13日），澳大利亚内政部长彼得·达顿（Peter Dutton）在推特上发表声明称，自己已确诊感染新冠病毒。
On Friday, Australia's interior minister, Peter Dutton, tweeted that he had been diagnosed with the new crown virus.
他写道，“根据卫生部门的方针，检测结果呈阳性的任何人都要入院接受治疗，我已遵循了他们的建议。
"In accordance with the guidelines of the health authorities, anyone who tested positive is admitted to hospital for treatment, and I have followed their advice," he wrote.
目前我感觉良好，之后我会再更新自己的情况。
I'm feeling fine now, and I'll update myself later.
”彼得·达顿的声明 来源：Twitter据《布里斯班时报》当天报道，现年49岁的达顿是首位新冠病毒检测呈阳性的澳大利亚政府成员。
Peter Dutton: Twitter reported on the same day that Datton, 49, was the first Australian government member to be tested positive for the new crown virus.
周二（10日），达顿曾在悉尼参加内阁会议，当时总理莫里森以及财政部长弗莱登伯格（Josh Frydenberg）等重要内阁成员都曾出席。
Datton attended a cabinet meeting in Sydney on Tuesday, attended by Prime Minister Morrison and key cabinet members such as Finance Minister Josh Frydenberg.
据了解，达顿本月早些时候曾前往美国，于5日在华盛顿会见了美加英澳新“五眼联盟”情报分享机构的安全官员。
Dutton, who traveled to the United States earlier this month, met with security officials from the five-eyes alliance's intelligence-sharing agency in Washington on May 5.
《纽约时报》称，他还曾和特朗普的女儿伊万卡以及美司法部长巴尔见面。
The New York Times said he had also met Trump's daughter, Ivanka, and Attorney General Barr.
他于上周末返澳，并在本周乘坐商业航班从布里斯班飞往悉尼参加内阁会议。
He returned to Australia over the weekend and flew from Brisbane to Sydney for cabinet meetings on a commercial flight this week.
据澳大利亚10 Daily网站报道，在赴美前，达顿曾于2月28日被拍到前往布里斯班的Golden Lane中餐馆。
Datton was photographed on Feb. 28 heading to Golden Lane, a Chinese restaurant in Brisbane, ahead of his trip to the US, the Australian Daily Web site reported.
3月3日，达顿还被拍到在众议院质询时间期间与莫里森并肩坐着交谈。
On March 3, Dutton was also photographed sitting side by side with Morrison during questioning time in the House.
本周一（9日），达顿还曾在位于昆士兰州莫顿湾的阳光海岸大学（University of Sunshine Coast）新校区发表讲话，并亲自欢迎了该校区的首批新生。
Datton also spoke at the new campus of the University of Sunshine Coast in Morton Bay, Queensland, on Monday and welcomed the first freshmen to the campus.
据悉，周四（12日），他还曾与澳大利亚国家安全委员会一同开会，当天莫里森也出席了会议。
He also met with Australia's National Security Council Thursday, in Morrison's presence.
但《悉尼先驱晨报》指出，达顿当天是以视频的形式接入了会议。
But the Sydney Morning Herald said Datton had accessed the meeting by video link.
9日，达顿在阳光海岸大学新校区发表讲话 来源：Twitter首次有政府成员确诊，或意味着澳大利亚疫情将进入更加严峻的阶段，其中，确诊病例与美国的关联也值得警惕。
Datton spoke at the University of the Sunshine Coast's new campus Thursday: Twitter was the first to be confirmed by a government member, or a sign that the Australian epidemic is entering a more serious phase, and the link between confirmed cases and the United States is alarming.
据《悉尼先驱晨报》统计，截至当地时间13日下午5点30分，澳大利亚已累计确诊208例新冠肺炎病例，其中，新南威尔士州（92例）、维多利亚州（36例）和昆士兰州（35例）的疫情最为严重。
By 5: 30 p.m. local time, 208 cases of new crown pneumonia had been confirmed in Australia, with New South Wales (92), Victoria (36) and Queensland (35), the Sydney Morning Herald reported.
前一日，正在昆士兰州黄金海岸拍摄电影的美国影星汤姆·汉克斯及其妻子已确诊感染新冠肺炎。
The day before, American film star Tom Hanks and his wife were diagnosed with New Crown Pneumonia while filming on Queensland's Golden Beach.
据界面新闻此前报道，3月7日至12日，全澳境内至少已有12例从美国输入的新冠肺炎病例 （不包括因密切接触而确诊的患者）。
From March 7 to 12, at least 12 new cases of pneumonia (excluding those diagnosed through close contact) were imported from the United States, the Interface News reported.
在澳大利亚先后对中国、伊朗、韩国和意大利实行旅行禁令以后，美国已经成了澳大利亚输入型病例的最大来源国之一。
Following Australia's travel bans on China, Iran, South Korea and Italy, the United States has become one of Australia's largest sources of imported cases.
目前，美国的新冠病毒检测呈阳性病例已突破1600例。
There have been more than 1,600 positive cases of the new crown virus in the United States.
但自新冠肺炎病例在美国出现以来，检测门槛高、效率低等问题一直受到各方诟病。
However, since the emergence of the new crown pneumonia in the United States, the test threshold is high, low efficiency and other problems have been criticized.
美国国立卫生研究院（NIH）过敏症和传染病研究所所长安东尼·福西（Anthony Fauci）12日在关于新冠肺炎疫情的听证会上指出，美国医疗制度在检测方面存在缺陷，无法做到像其他国家那样，民众可以轻易接受检测。
Anthony Fauci, director of the Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), told a hearing on Wednesday that the U.S. health-care system was failing to detect the disease, making it less accessible to the public than in other countries.
负责检测的美国疾控中心（CDC）主任罗伯特·雷德菲尔德（Robert Redfield）也在会上表示，部分公共实验室因缺乏人力、设备等原因，导致检测能力不足，也的确存在一些“看似死于流感，实际死于新冠肺炎”的病例。
Robert Redfield, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in the United States, also told the meeting that some public laboratories lacked the necessary manpower and equipment to detect the disease, and that there were cases of what appeared to be a flu-related death from pneumonia.
据CDC统计，美国目前仅有超过1.1万人接受了新冠病毒检测。
According to the CDC, only more than 11,000 people in the United States have been tested for the virus.
福西表示，由于检测不足，目前很难预估美国境内感染新冠肺炎的人数。
Fauci said it was difficult to predict the number of new cases of pneumonia in the United States because of insufficient testing.
国会和最高法院的主治医师莫纳汉（Brian Patrick Monahan）11日则预估，在拥有近3.3亿人口的美国，最终可能会有7000万至1.5亿人感染。
Brian Patrick Monahan, chief physician of Congress and the Supreme Court, estimated on the 11th that between 70 million and 150 million people could eventually become infected in the US, a country with a population of nearly 330 million.
作为美国最亲密的盟友之一，官方以及民间往来频繁，澳大利亚或面临着极高的疫情风险。
As one of America's closest allies, with its frequent official and civilian contacts, Australia may be at high risk of an outbreak.
总理莫里森13日已呼吁澳大利亚人重新考虑所有的出国旅游，并将海外旅游的警告等级提升至三级。
Prime Minister Morrison 13 has called on Australians to reconsider all foreign travel, and to upgrade the warning level of overseas travel to level 3.
他还宣布，将自下周一起，建议取消500人以上的不必要活动，但上学、参加大学讲座、使用公共交通、前往机场等活动不受影响。
He also announced that, as of next week, more than 500 people would be recommended for unnecessary activities, but activities such as attending schools, attending university lectures, using public transport and travelling to airports would not be affected.
针对内政部长检测呈阳性的消息，总理办公室则在当天发表声明说，莫里森不会自行隔离，因为他在达顿出现症状前的24小时内，未与其有过密切接触。
The prime minister's office said on the same day that Morrison would not isolate himself because he had not been in close contact with Datton during the 24 hours before he developed symptoms.
据悉，其他内阁成员在这段时间也未与达顿有过密切接触。
Other cabinet members are also known not to have been in close contact with Dutton during this time.
在13日早些时候的发布会上，莫里森就已表示，他周六晚上要去看自己最喜欢的“克莱纳拉鲨鱼队”的橄榄球比赛。
At a news conference earlier this week, Morrison said he was going to watch his favorite game of "Cleanara Sharks" football Saturday night.
他说，“我周六要去，因为下次想再去看，可能得等很久了。
"I'm going on Saturday, because the next time I want to see it, it will probably take a long time," he said.
”未经授权 禁止转载。
No reproduction is permitted without authorization.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
澳内政部长检测呈阳性，总理不打算隔离：还得去看球。
The Australian interior minister tested positive and the prime minister had no plans to isolate: he had to watch the ball.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "澳内政部长检测呈阳性，总理不打算隔离：还得去看球";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Australia's Minister of the Interior tested positive; the prime minister has no plans to separate: and has to see Ball & quot;;;
var msg_desc = "部长于5日在华盛顿会见了美加英澳新“五眼联盟”情报分享机构的安全官员。
var msg _ desc = & quot; the minister met with security officials at CANZ's five-eye intelligence-sharing agency in Washington on Friday.
还和特朗普的女儿伊万卡以及美司法部长巴尔见面。
Meet Trump's daughter, Ivanka, and Attorney General Barr.
他于上周末返澳，并在本周乘坐商业航班从布里斯班飞往悉尼，参加内阁会议。
He returned to Australia over the weekend and flew from Brisbane to Sydney this week on a commercial flight to attend cabinet meetings.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
