2万品牌在天猫上“战疫力”爆表！逆势增长100%。
20, 000 brand on the "war blight" blaster on the cat! Reverse trend increased by 100%.
林素。
Lin Su.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
今年3.8不仅是疫情后消费回暖的分界点，更是企业转型数字化的窗口期“现在的感觉真的是春天要来了，春暖花开了。
This year 3.8 is not only the post-epidemic consumption warming point, but also the enterprise transformation digital window period "Now the feeling is really spring to come, spring blooming.
”伊丽莎白雅顿中国区总经理袁立维说。
Yuan Liwei, general manager of Elizabeth Arden China, said.
作为疫情发生后的首次购物高峰，2020年的三八节成为了名副其实的“购物节”，全国消费力在这次节日中强势回归。
As the first shopping rush since the outbreak, the March 8, 2020, festival became a veritable "shopping festival," the country's spending power strong return in this holiday.
据淘宝数据，在刚刚过去的天猫38女王节，超2万个品牌销售额同比去年增长超100%。
According to Taobao, sales of more than 20,000 brands grew more than 100 percent year-on-year on the latest day of Queen 38, the cat.
在淘宝直播上，引导销售同比飙升4倍整体销售额远超去年，超过2万个品牌销售额同比增长超过100%。
On Taobao Live, guided sales soared four times year-on-year. Overall sales far exceeded last year, with more than 20,000 brand sales up more than 100% year on year.
其中，38前夕，雅诗兰黛、娇韵诗等10个美妆品牌破记录，突破上线天猫以来的最好销售记录。
Among them, 38 eve, Estee Lauder, Jiaolu poetry and other 10 makeup brands broke records, break the best sales record since the online Tiantas.
伊丽莎白雅顿也没有预料到，超品计划原定7000万的销售目标快速达成，最终达成了7800万业绩，一天就获得13万新客数量。
Elizabeth Arden also did not anticipate that the planned sales target of $70 million for the Superproduct project would be met quickly, culminating in 78 million new customers in one day.
据悉，今年的天猫“38女王节”被外界称为“疫情下的双11”，是4年以来规模最大的一次，也是疫情之后的全国第一次大型促销活动，销售额创下疫情以来成交新高。
The 38-year-old cat, dubbed Double 11th Under the Epidemic, is the biggest in four years and the first major national promotion since the outbreak, with sales at a record high since the outbreak.
数据增长背后，是市场的复苏、经济的回暖。
Behind the growth is a recovery in the market and a recovery in the economy.
对于品牌商来说，疫情的打击是黑暗，也是新一波机遇的诞生。
For the brand, the impact of the epidemic is dark, but also a new wave of opportunity.
众多天猫品牌玩家在38节的表现佐证了一点：抓住市场风向投入数字化、拥抱新零售即意味着新增长机会的到来。
The 38-verse behavior of many Tiancat brand players attests to the fact that capturing the market's wind to digitize and embrace new retail means new growth opportunities.
率先吃到红利的美妆品牌3月5日，淘宝开启了38购物节的促销。
Taobao launched its 38-year-old store on March 5, the first beauty brand to take a dividend.
品牌与平台意外地发现，日用品与美妆行业受到追捧，3月5日首日活动即超去年4天活动期。
Brand and platform unexpectedly found that the commodity and make-up industry is hot, March 5, the first day of activity is more than last four days.
其中，开卖1小时超去年38节的商家有完美日记、CPB、资生堂、舒肤佳、林清轩、菲洛嘉等。
Among them, those who started selling 1 hour more than last year's 38 have perfect diary, CPB, Shiseido, Shujin, Lin Qingxuan, Philojia and so on.
阿里巴巴集团副总裁古迈透露，在大快消领域，今年38节的成交额超过了去年的双11、双12。
Alibaba Group vice president Gumai revealed that in the fast-extinguishing field, this year's 38-section turnover exceeded last year's double 11, double 12.
美妆品牌的增长趋势已有苗头。
The growth trend of make-up brand is beginning to appear.
2月27日，雅诗兰黛天猫官方旗舰店销售额一天破亿元，娇韵诗天猫官方旗舰店一天新增了50万粉丝。
On Feb. 27, Estee Lauder's official flagship store sales topped $1 billion a day, adding 500,000 fans a day to Jiaolong's official flagship store.
凭着在天猫超级品牌日发售新品“雅顿小鲜胶”，伊丽莎白雅顿天猫官方旗舰店一天内做到了销售额7300万元的成绩，迎来12.8万新客，创下了该品牌上线天猫以来的最高纪录。
With the launch of its new product, Yatton Gum, on Cat Super Brand Day, Elizabeth Arden's official flagship store recorded sales of 73 million yuan in a day, bringing in 128,000 new customers, the highest number since the brand went online.
作为老牌巨头在天猫破局的代表，伊丽莎白雅顿今年的目标是10亿销售额。
As a representative of the old tycoon in the cat wreck, Elizabeth Arden's target for this year is $1 billion in sales.
袁立维介绍，雅顿于1995年进入中国市场，此前通过多个代理商经营，后来品牌方收回了代理权，逐渐改为直营模式。
Mr. Yuan said Mr. Yatton entered the Chinese market in 1995, previously operating through multiple agents, and later the brand withdrew its agency power and moved gradually to a straight-market model.
品牌所有权的变革曾让雅顿经历了挺长的阵痛期，没能赶上美妆品牌在百货公司的爆发期。
The change of brand ownership has caused Arden to go through a long period of pain, but failed to catch up with the beauty brand in the department store outbreak.
随着中国市场消费力的崛起，年轻一代消费习惯的改变，雅顿意识到线上是一个突破口。
With the rise of consumer power in China and the changing consumption habits of the younger generation, Arden realized that the line was a breakthrough.
2014年，雅顿进驻天猫，于次年将年营业额做到了1000万，随后每年都能实现100%以上的增长。
In 2014, Yatton moved into the cats, generating an annual turnover of 10 million in the following year, followed by an annual growth rate of more than 100 per cent.
然而，之前的阵痛期，一度让品牌错过了在华发展的黄金时代，面临着如何破局重生的危机。
However, before the pain period, once let the brand missed the golden age of development in China, faced with how to break the crisis of rebirth.
通过天猫大数据分析，年轻一代的消费者护肤观念比80后更超前，舍得花钱买抗衰、冻龄功效的产品；基于此，雅顿在“金胶”外，推出“粉胶”、“小鲜胶”等面向年轻一代的产品，成功扭转了颓势。
Based on the analysis of big cat data, the younger generation of consumers are more advanced in their ideas of skin care than after the 80s and are willing to spend money on aging-resistant and freeze-age products.
新品是撬动品牌持续高速增长的有力抓手。
The new product is to pry the brand to continue the rapid growth of the strong grasp.
据天猫数据，2月20日，疫情影响还未消除的背景下，雅顿产品在线上迎来了一波“逆势增长”。
According to Cat data, February 20, the impact of the epidemic has not yet been eliminated, Yatton products on-line ushered in a wave of "negative growth."
在天猫超级品牌日合作首发的“VC焕亮小鲜胶”，上市后销售突破2万7千件，品牌旗舰店因此获得12.8万新客，全店销售额突破7300万，比首次超品提升11倍。
The launch of "VC Huanghuang Gum" in the Super Brand Day launched after the sale of more than 27,000 pieces, brand flagship stores to 128,000 new customers, the store sales exceeded 73 million, an 11-fold increase over the first super-goods.
“虽然专柜受到了影响，但线上生意我们一直是不停摆的。
"Although the counters have been affected, we have been on-line business.
我们刚做完超品，第二天无缝对接到3.8大促中来，大家都很拼，也是因为看重天猫的成长性和趋势引领的力量。
We just finished the super, the next day seamless to receive 3.8 short, everyone is very hard, but also because of the importance of the growth of the cat and trend-led power.
”袁立维说。
"Yuan Liwei said.
在袁立维看来，雅顿的顺利翻盘原因在于三点：其一是适应天猫平台，利用数据的规划进行全域营销，正确定位消费者，并在抖音、B站等外围进行内容投放；其二是利用好淘宝直播，在与红人合作之外，大促期间每天都有不同主题来维持流量增长；其三是利用数据，对销售进行提前计划、准确预估。
In Yuan's view, Yaton's success was due to three factors: first, adapting to the sky-cat platform, using data planning for global marketing, positioning consumers correctly, and launching content on the periphery of jitter and station B.
在古迈看来，过去两年间，阿里巴巴的商业系统与品牌客户进行了深度合作。
According to Mr Gumi, Alibaba's business systems have worked intensively with brand customers over the past two years.
雅顿等品牌与天猫的融合可以看作“数字化新基建”的初步试水。
The integration of brands such as Arden and Cats can be seen as a preliminary test of a "new digital infrastructure."
过去几年内，阿里巴巴试图建一套立服务严密的数字经济体，商业操作系统输出的是全面数字化运营的能力，其中包括数据技术驱动的全域营销能力，多端、跨场景的获客和服务能力、物流能力、数字化的组织管理能力。
Over the past few years, Alibaba has sought to build a fully digitally enabled digital economy, with commercial operating systems that export capabilities that are fully digitized, including data-driven global marketing capabilities, multi-tier, cross-scene customer and service capabilities, logistics capabilities, and digitized organizational management capabilities.
这些能力与跟商家的商业模式结合起来，在阿里巴巴的平台上闭环，形成真正有效的洞察，同时快速投入商家的运营之中，最终沉淀为它们自身的数字化“内功”。
These capabilities, combined with business models, are closed to business on Alibaba's platform, providing truly effective insight, and quickly feeding into businesses "operations, ultimately settling for their own digital" inner work. "
作为品牌数字化的推手，阿里以数字化手段为基础设施，直播等渠道为导流手段，将线上线下的零售场打通，给品牌建立自运营的阵地，在疫情“黑天鹅”的打击中，品牌才得以摆脱对实体店的依赖，实现离店销售。
As the promoter of brand digitization, Ali used digital means as infrastructure, direct broadcasting and other channels as a diversion, opening up retail outlets offline and establishing brand self-operating positions. Only in the face of the epidemic's "black swans" was the brand able to shed its dependence on physical shops and sell them away.
“飞向”线上的红蜻蜓淘宝直播是本次购物节的最重要推手。
"Fly" line of red dragonfly Taobao live broadcast is the most important promotion of this festival.
数据显示，“38女王节”期间，淘宝直播带动的销量同比大涨264%，最高的一天带动成交量增长了650%。
Taobao recorded a 264 per cent year-on-year jump in sales during Queen 38 and a 650 per cent year-on-year rise on the top day.
与此同时，天猫在3月派发10亿消费补贴，进一步助力商家复工复产。
Meanwhile, the cat paid out a billion dollars in consumer subsidies in March to further help businesses get back to work.
目前天猫商家复工超过90%，而淘宝在2月则新增了100万商家。
Taobao added one million businesses in February, compared with more than 90 percent of workers who returned to work.
菜鸟方面， 。
The rookie side.
2月进口商品的备货数量比去年同期增长近100%，其中美妆是第一备货大户。
Imports rose nearly 100% in February from a year earlier, with makeup being the biggest reserve.
3月以来，全国各地电商仓库的日均发货量比一个月前涨了3倍。
Since March, average daily shipments from electrical warehouses across the country have tripled compared with a month ago.
疫情阻挡线下商业，商家在淘宝直播间完成拉新、种草，借助淘宝和网商银行的“0账期”度过疫情难关。
Outbreak blocking the line of commerce, businesses in Taobao direct broadcast to complete the new, planting grass, with Taobao and the bank "0 account period" to tide over the epidemic.
鞋企红蜻蜓就是其中之一。
Shoe enterprise red dragonfly is one of them.
“38女王节”期间，红蜻蜓旗舰店超过100个导购号开播，直播场次超过400场，淘宝直播成了其业绩增长的新赛道。
During the "38 Queen's Day" period, Red Dragonfly flagship store more than 100 start, live broadcast of more than 400 games, Taobao live into its growth of the new track.
此前，红蜻蜓创始人、集团董事长钱金波做了一个决定：发动所有线下导购，拿起手机来做生意，尤其是开启淘宝直播。
Earlier, the group's founder and chairman Qian Jinbo made a decision: launch all offline acquisitions, pick up the phone to do business, especially to open Taobao live.
9天之内，红蜻蜓日营业额从疫情开始时的零增长到超百万元。
Within 9 days, the daily turnover of red dragonflies increased from zero growth at the start of the outbreak to over $1 million.
成立于1995年的鞋服上市公司红蜻蜓，对2003年的非典疫情印象深刻。
Founded in 1995, the footwear listed company Red Dragonfly, in 2003 the SARS epidemic was impressed.
“当时我们都在等待一切好起来，其他的几乎做不了什么”，红蜻蜓董事长钱金波坦言，“当时也没什么数字化理念和工具，最好的CRM系统也就是给消费者发发短信、送送小礼品而已。
"We were all waiting for things to get better, and there was little else to do," admits Qian Jinbo, chairman of the Red Dragonfly. "There were no digital ideas or tools, and the best CRM system was sending text messages and small gifts to consumers.
”因此，在2020年疫情发生后，红蜻蜓对数字化抗击疫情已有准备。
So, in the wake of the 2020 outbreak, red dragonflies are ready to fight the epidemic digitally.
2018年，红蜻蜓选择阿里云启动了数智化转型，线下1000多家自营门店改造为智慧门店，3000多家加盟店加入钉钉进行联动。
In 2018, the Red Dragonfly chose Ariyun to start a digital transformation, more than 1000 self-employed shops under the line into smart stores, more than 3,000 allied stores to join forces.
围绕阿里的AIPL（认知、兴趣、购买、忠诚）模式链路，将会员社群化，再进行一对一的触达和营销，进而转换和拉新，一年内红蜻蜓积累了506万线下会员数据。
AIPL (Cognitive, Interest, Purchasing, Loyalty) model links around Ali, socialize the members, then engage in one-on-one touch and marketing, and then convert and pull new, the red dragonfly accumulated under 5.06 million line membership data in a year.
疫情发生的2月初，钱金波快速决定把线下门店搬到网上去。
In early February, Mr. Qian quickly decided to move offline stores online.
为此，公司成立了“红蜻蜓战‘疫’指挥部”，由董事长钱金波的儿子钱帆任指挥官，抽调公司骨干组成团队。
To this end, the company set up "Red Dragonfly Battle 'Plague' Command," by Chairman Qian Jinbo's son Qian Cang as commander, drawing the backbone of the company to form a team.
刚成立不到两年的新零售部门任先锋，担纲具体业务的实施。
Less than two years after the establishment of the new retail sector to spearhead the implementation of specific business.
据钱金波介绍，1天内，红蜻蜓线上商城搭建完毕；两天内，400多个超200人的社群建立起来，5000多名线下导购在家上岗。
According to Qian Jinbo, within one day, the Red Dragonfly Online Mall was set up. In two days, more than 400 communities with more than 200 people were set up and more than 5,000 undercover agents were working at home.
在销售数据上，2月7日-17日，红蜻蜓每天的离店销售额从15万起步，逐步上涨，截至目前，单日销售总额超过百万。
In terms of sales figures, daily sales of red dragonflies started at 150,000 per day on February 7-17, rising gradually to over one million a day so far.
“最重要的一点我觉得是思维模式的转变，从传统的零售思维真正转变到了新零售的思维。
"The most important thing I think is the shift in mindset from traditional retail thinking to new retail thinking.
”钱金波表示，线下的离线的能力训练出来之后，能够倒逼线上线下的融合；疫情把企业逼到了墙角，企业只有把疫情当做一个训练场，逼着长出新的能力，在疫情后才会如获新生。
Mr Qian says offline capacity is trained to force integration offline; the epidemic pushes companies to the corner; and companies use the epidemic as a training ground, forcing them to grow new capabilities after the outbreak.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
2万品牌在天猫上“战疫力”爆表！逆势增长100%。
20, 000 brand on the "war blight" blaster on the cat! Reverse trend increased by 100%.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "2万品牌在天猫上“战疫力”爆表！逆势增长100%";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; &
var msg_desc = "今年3.8不仅是疫情后消费回暖的分界点，更是企业转型数字化的窗口期";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; this year 3.8 is not only a post-epidemic consumer recovery point, but also a window at & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
