童装企业有八成工人无法返岗，老板上阵自己干。
Children's wear enterprises 80% of workers can not return to work, the boss on their own.
黄姗。
Susan: Certainly.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：图虫记者：黄姗编辑：周卓然“ 多位童装企业主预计，工人全面返岗可能要等到三月中下旬。
Source: Toothworm reporter: Huang Zhuoran, editor: Zhou Zhuoran "Many business owners of children's wear expect that the full return of workers will probably wait until the middle of March.
”“没工人，老板自己干吧。
'No workmen, the boss will do it himself.
”在Vivian Luo刚发到微信朋友圈上的视频旁边，配着这样一句话。
The phrase was paired with Vivian Luo's video, which had just been posted on a microphone circle.
视频中，薇安的父亲在制衣车间里，正和零星的几个工人一起烫衣服。
In the video, Vianne's father is ironing clothes with a handful of workers in a garment shop.
Vivian家的工厂车间已经复工复产了两三天，但厂内工人依然严重短缺。
The Vivian factory workshops have been reopened for two or three days, but there is still a serious shortage of workers.
薇安父女俩只好齐上阵，“我爸就烫了两条，我烫了一下午。
The Vian father and daughter had to fight together. "My father got two irons, and I burned them all afternoon.
”Vivian家经营的湖州织里漂亮妞妞服饰有限公司（以下简称漂亮妞妞）是织里镇上一间规模中等的童装企业，像漂亮妞妞这样规模的童装企业在织里镇上大概有一千多家。
Vivian Home-run Huzhou Weaving Niuniu Dress Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "pretty girls") is a medium-sized children's wear business in Weili town, where children's wear businesses of the size of pretty girls number about a thousand.
织里镇是中国有名的童装生产集中地，据不完全统计，该镇上的童装生产加工单位有13000家，电商7000家，而服装配套单位则有两三千家。
According to incomplete statistics, the town has 13,000 children's wear production and processing units, 7,000 electrical enterprises and two or three thousand garment accessory units.
2018年，织里镇上童装年销售规模达到550亿元。
In 2018, annual sales of children's wear reached 55 billion yuan in Weili.
不过，如今受到新冠肺炎疫情的影响，这个承包了中国童装市场六成产量的童装重镇正在面临严峻的生产考验。
Now, however, affected by the outbreak of pneumonia in the New Crown, a child-wear town contracted to produce 60% of China's children's wear market is facing a severe production test.
织里镇上童装企业的情况并不乐观。
The state of the children's wear business in Weili is not encouraging.
一家企业的八成工人无法返岗按照正常的生产日程安排，童装企业大多在三月完成春季童装的产销工作，目前正在进行夏季童装的生产工作。
According to the normal production schedule, most children's wear enterprises complete the production and marketing of spring children's wear in March, and are now engaged in the production of summer children's wear.
但今年突如其来的新型冠状病毒打乱了计划，织里童装厂的夏季生产已经大幅延迟。
But this year's unexpected new coronavirus disrupted plans for a summer production delay at Weaver's children's wear factory.
镇上的企业从2月底开始陆续复工复产，其产能却远无法在短期内恢复到年前水平。
Businesses in the town have been returning to work since late February, but their capacity is far from being restored to pre-year levels in the short term.
多位镇上的童装企业主告诉界面时尚，这其中最大的困难就是劳工短缺。
Many of the town's business owners tell Interface Fashion, and one of the biggest difficulties is a shortage of workers.
不可比喻服饰有限公司（以下简称不可比喻）是一家规模和产能均位居织里镇前列的童装企业。
Imparable Apparel Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as non-figurative) is a scale and production capacity in the forefront of the town of children's wear enterprises.
现在，不可比喻的管理人员都复岗了，但返岗的工人大概只有两成。
Now, indescribable executives have been reinstated, but only about 20% of the workers have returned to work.
不可比喻董事长兼总经理朱会强向界面时尚坦言，“每一条生产线基本上都可以慢慢的动起来了，就速度很慢。
Not figurative chairman and general manager Zhu Huiqiang frankly to the interface fashion, "each production line can basically move slowly, very slow.
”织里镇上聚集着大量的外来劳工。
"The town of Weaulieu was full of imported laborers.
这个小镇仅有90平方公里，却住着45万人口，其中外来劳工人口规模达到10万人。
With a population of 450,000, the town has a population of only 90 square kilometers, with a migrant labor force of 100,000.
从工厂工人到企业主，从工厂到企业管理运营的产业链上的各个环节都有外地人的身影。
From factory workers to business owners, from the factory to enterprise management and operation of the industrial chain all have the presence of outsiders.
但在疫情之下，高度依赖外来务工人员的织里童装厂商则变得举步维艰。
But in the face of the epidemic, children's wear makers, who are highly dependent on migrant workers, are struggling.
2月中旬浙江省多个地市就启动了“抢人大战”，其中就有直辖织里镇的湖州市吴兴区政府。
In mid-February, several cities in Zhejiang Province launched a "war of robbery," among which is the Wuxing District Government of Huzhou, the town of Zhengli.
根据《棱镜》报道，湖州市政府在2月16日出台了一系列复工激励政策，包括设立不少于1亿元的补助资金，对企业新招员工，给予1000元/人的一次性生活补助。
According to Prism, on February 16, the Huzhou government introduced a series of incentive measures, including a subsidy of not less than 100 million yuan, and a one-time living allowance of 1,000 yuan per person for newly recruited employees.
更为关键的是，政府将全额补贴企业组织外地员工包车返回所产生的一切费用。
More critically, the government will fully subsidize all costs incurred by businesses in organizing the return of chartered cars of their expatriate staff.
吴兴区还确认了春秋航空作为包机承运方接回外来务工人员。
Wu Xing District also confirmed that Chunqiu Airlines as a charter carrier to receive migrant workers back.
上千名外地工人以这种方式被接回织里镇，但仍有大量工人因为种种原因仍然滞留在老家。
Thousands of non-resident workers have been brought back to the town in this way, but a large number of workers remain at home for a variety of reasons.
织里镇上组织大巴接工人返程。
The town of Weili organized buses to take the workers back.
图片来源：湖州日报不可比喻也组织了工人包车返程，但效果一般，主要是因为“工人不集中，不扎堆。
2007-9-25 21: 48 Huzhou Daily reports that workers are chartered to return home, but the effect is mediocre, mainly because "workers are not concentrated, do not pile up.
”朱会强告诉界面时尚，“关键问题她不愿意来，或者有些地方他也不放。
Zhu told Interface Fashion, "The key thing is that she doesn't want to come, or he won't let go of some places.
什么都有。
There's everything.
”制衣厂尤其需要女工。
Clothing factories need women in particular.
但如今多地中小学推迟开学，其结果是女工们不愿意放下家中的孩子不管而外出打工。
But now more and more primary and secondary schools are running late, with the result that women workers are reluctant to leave their children behind and work outside the home.
“什么时候孩子能上学了，这批人才可能出来打工。
"When will the children be able to go to school, and this group of people will probably work.
”杭州蔚蓝智衣科技有限公司（以下简称蔚蓝智衣）总裁黄康亮对界面时尚表示。
Huang Kang-liang, president of Hangzhou Ulan Ji Yi Technology Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as Ulan Ji Yi), expressed fashion to the interface.
外来工分流加剧工人短缺对于织里镇上“前店后厂”模式的个体户打击更大。
The diversion of migrant workers exacerbated the shortage of workers and hit the self-employed more severely in the "ex-store factory" model in Weili.
在织里镇，“前店后厂”指的是童装个体户在一栋两三层高的楼内，沿街设为门面店，展示生产的童装，而内部进行童装制衣生产工作。
In weaving town, "ex-store factory" refers to children's clothing self-employed in a two or three-storey building, along the street as a storefront shop, to display the production of children's clothing, and to carry out the internal production of children's clothing.
织里镇上的童装门面店一条街疫情阻碍工人返程是一大原因。
A street epidemic in Weili's children's wear facade store is a major factor preventing workers from returning home.
而另一方面，虽然织里镇上的童装企业主愿意高价雇佣工人，但许多工人考虑到镇上的消费相对也高，而选择在家乡附近的工厂就业。
On the other hand, many workers in Weili, though willing to hire workers at high prices, chose to work in factories near their home towns, given the relatively high cost of doing so.
比如，传统上为织里镇输送了大量女工的安徽，近年来却开始出现劳动力回流。
Anhui province, for example, traditionally used to send large numbers of women workers to Kweili, has seen a return of labor in recent years.
这次疫情可以说加剧了这种情况。
The outbreak can be said to have exacerbated the situation.
蔚蓝智衣的合作厂商和工人就大量集中在劳动力成本更低的安徽。
Azure's partners and workers are heavily concentrated in Anhui province, where labor costs are lower.
该公司开发了一个童装供应链平台“快衣”，帮助童装品牌方与厂商在线对接，实现拆分服装生产流程并在线组织生产的目的。
The company has developed a children's clothing supply chain platform, "fast clothing," to help children's clothing brand and manufacturers online docking, split the production process and organize production online.
目前，该平台上已经聚集了一两百家厂商，管理的工人达到三四千人。
At present, the platform has gathered one or two hundred manufacturers, managing three or four thousand workers.
据黄康亮介绍，这些安徽工人选择就近返厂复工。
According to Huang Kang-liang, these Anhui workers chose to return to work nearby.
图片来源：湖州日报近年来，织里镇的童装制造业正在经历转型升级。
Photo Source: Huzhou Daily In recent years, the children's wear manufacturing industry in Weili is undergoing transformation and upgrading.
而一些跟不上转型的个体户，其订单最终转移到其它供应链模式更有优势的企业手中。
And some individuals who cannot keep up with the transition end up shifting their orders to companies with more dominant supply-chain models.
“快衣”平台就属于后者。
"Fast clothing" platform belongs to the latter.
从“原产委托设计（ODM）”模式进一步演变而来，“快衣”平台受品牌方委托快衣委托第三方厂商生产和后期维护，而平台则扮演采购和销售的角色。
From the "original commissioned design (ODM)" model further evolved, the "fast clothing" platform by the brand commissioned third-party manufacturers production and maintenance, and the platform plays the role of procurement and sales.
换句话说，只要快衣平台能够把面辅料等物料运给安徽的厂商，当地厂商就能组织工人进行生产。
In other words, as long as the garment platform can deliver materials such as flour accessories to Anhui manufacturers, local manufacturers can organize workers to produce.
“原来我会压一个月的货在他那里，就说一个原材料在他那里。
"I would have put a month's worth of goods in his place and said a raw material was there.
”黄康亮告诉界面记者，“说白了只要说工人什么时候能出车，在采购没有太大影响的情况下，他都能开工。
Huang told reporters at the interface, "Let's just say when the workers will be able to get out of the car and he'll be able to start work without having a big impact on the purchase.
”当织里镇的童装个体户苦于招工难的时候，“快衣”却为“供不应求”而苦恼。
When self-employed children's wear workers in Kweili suffer from a shortage of jobs, "fast clothing" is "in short supply" and worry.
“压力是有，但是说这个压力其实还更大一部分来自于现在我们单接不过来了。
"The pressure is there, but it's a lot more coming from the fact that we can't pick it up right now.
”如何弥补损失多位童装企业主预计，工人全面返岗可能要等到三月中下旬。
How to make up for the losses Many business owners of children's wear expect workers to return fully to work in late March.
与此同时，面辅料断供的情况仍然存在，而面料涨价的问题也接踵而来。
At the same time, the supply of accessories still exist, and fabric prices have also continued to rise.
重重压力之下，镇上部分童装厂已经选择在上半年彻底停厂。
Under heavy pressure, some of the town's children's wear factories have chosen to close in the first half of the year.
这些厂商大多数只生产现货，损失的也只是部分房租，停厂关门反而能最大限度止损。
Most of these manufacturers only produce spot, only a part of the loss of rent, plant closure can be the maximum stop.
而做期货的品牌厂商则选择继续坚持，尽管这意味着他们需要应对极其复杂的局面。
Brand makers who do futures are choosing to stick with it, even though it means they have to deal with a very complex situation.
一方面，童装相比成衣市场对季节气候等更加敏感。
On the one hand, children's clothing markets are more sensitive to seasonal weather and so on.
通常来说，夏季童装的上市时间是每年的五六月之前。
In general, summer children's wear is listed before May and June of each year.
这意味着，今年织里镇童装厂商的夏季生产周期将被大幅度压缩，生产压力剧增。
This means that this year Weaulizhen children's clothing manufacturers will be the summer production cycle will be significantly compressed, production pressure increased dramatically.
另一方面，在期货的终端价格确定的情况下，制造成本一旦上涨，期货厂商也只能降低产量，继而进一步影响销售规模。
On the other hand, when the terminal price of a futures contract is determined, once manufacturing costs rise, the futures firm can only reduce production, which in turn further affects the size of the sale.
朱会强告诉界面时尚，往年到了四月份，不可比喻已经完成夏季童装的全部生产和上市工作。
Zhu will tell the interface fashion, the past year to April, can not be compared to the completion of the summer children's clothing production and marketing.
照今年的情况，“生产量我估计能够达到70%，已经是很不错了。
As things stand this year, "I expect to be able to produce 70 per cent, which is pretty good.
”不可比喻旗下运营着以直营为主的少年装品牌BCOBI和童装批发品牌“开米洛”。
It can't be compared to BCOBI, which operates a direct-line clothing brand for teenagers, and Camilo, a wholesale children's wear brand.
而上半年童装企业受到的冲击，以及童装市场低迷恐怕也将影响整个行业下半年的订单规模和产销计划。
The first half of the impact on children's clothing enterprises, and the children's wear market is likely to affect the whole industry in the second half of orders and marketing plans.
朱会强表示，“所以对整个一年来说，对做期货的那些厂家来说，品牌公司来说，今年的损失是蛮大的。
"So for the whole year, brand companies are going to lose a lot of money this year," says Mr Zhu.
”疫情也同样考验着织里镇上童装厂的抗风险能力和危机处理能力。
The outbreak also tested the resilience and crisis management capabilities of the town's children's wear factory.
织里镇的童装产业是一个“橄榄球”型结构。
The children's wear industry in Weili is a "rugby" structure.
在去年整体经济形势下行的情况下，镇上企业实现了三成童装企业保盈利，两成不亏不赚，以及两三成企业接近盈亏均衡线的良性局面。
Against the backdrop of the overall economic downturn last year, 30 per cent of the town's enterprises achieved child wear business profits, 20 per cent no loss no gain, and 20 or 30 per cent close to the profit and loss balance line benign situation.
这要归功于织里镇上不断求新求变的童装企业。
This is thanks to the constantly changing children's wear business in Weili.
不可比喻在去年刚刚调整了供应链模式，从原先"全期货"模式向“七成期货+三成现货”的模式转型。
Not to mention last year's transformation of its supply chain model from RSC & quot; to & quot; & quot; to & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
朱会强在去年接受界面记者采访时曾透露，“明年开始我们可能有50%的期货，50%的现货。
'We may have 50% futures and 50% spot starting next year, 'Mr. Zhu told reporters at the interface last year.
”这一颇具前瞻性的模式转型或能帮助该公司减少本年度的损失。
This forward-looking paradigm shift may help the company reduce its losses this year.
朱会强告诉界面时尚，“我们现在打算把期货压缩20~30%的产量，到时候工人回来之后，我们打算通过现货来补充。
"We now intend to compress our futures production by 20 to 30 per cent and we intend to replenish it from stock when the workers come back," Zhu told Interface fashion.
”在销售方面，不可比喻目前已经恢复营业的直营和代理门店只占总数的10%。
In terms of sales, it is impossible to compare the 10 per cent of direct and correspondent stores that have now resumed business.
不过，“很多客户也是说我开了之后，也是没生意。
However, "a lot of clients also said that after I opened, there is no business.
”所以，不可比喻正在尝试线上社群和私域营销，朱会强还计划“让每个店铺做小直播。
So, rather than figuring out how to market online and privately, Mr Zhu plans to "let every shop do a small broadcast."
看能不能有个突破口。
See if we can make a breakthrough.
”未经授权 禁止转载。
No reproduction is permitted without authorization.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
童装企业有八成工人无法返岗，老板上阵自己干。
Children's wear enterprises 80% of workers can not return to work, the boss on their own.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "童装企业有八成工人无法返岗，老板上阵自己干";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; Eight out of ten workers in a children's wear business have failed to return.
var msg_desc = "多位童装企业主预计，工人全面返岗可能要等到三月中下旬。
var msg _ desc = & quot; and many business owners of children's wear expect workers to return fully to work in late March.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
