GUCCI等奢侈品缩减供应商订单，你买的包要延后了。
Luxury goods such as GUCCI shrink supplier orders, and your bag is delayed.
加琳玮。
Mr. Garinwei.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：retaildetail记者：加琳玮编辑：周卓然“ GUCCI一个意大利供应商称2月订单数量骤减，3月份没有接到订单，4、5月的订单也毫无着落。
2007-9-25 21: 48 An Italian supplier to GUCCI said orders fell sharply in February, that no orders were received in March and that orders for April and May were not available
”为防止新冠肺炎疫情进一步扩散，3月12日，意大利宣布暂停全国所有非必要的商业活动，杂货店和药店除外。
To prevent the outbreak from spreading further, Italy on March 12 suspended all non-essential business activities across the country, with the exception of grocery stores and pharmacies.
次日，意大利奢侈品牌GUCCI便决定在3月20日之前，暂时关闭意大利所有工厂。
The next day, the Italian luxury brand GUCCI decided to temporarily close all Italian factories until March 20.
据悉，GUCCI在意大利共有六个生产基地，位于托斯卡纳和马尔凯地区。
GUCCI is known to have six production bases in Italy, located in the Tuscany and Marquez regions.
《女装日报》报道称，一位GUCCI发言人表示暂时关闭工厂不会影响产品供应，品牌全球官网也在继续运营。
A GUCCI spokeswoman said the temporary closure would 'not affect the supply of our products,' a spokeswoman for the women's wear daily said.
“品牌将继续维持必要的运行，以确保当前和未来商业运营的连续性。
"Brands will continue to operate as necessary to ensure the continuity of current and future business operations."
”该发言人还表示，GUCCI已经要求公司在意大利各办公室的所有员工用多种形式灵活、弹性办公，例如一周只工作四天。
The spokesman also said GUCCI had asked all its employees in Italian offices to work flexibly and flexibly, for example, four days a week.
华尔街投行杰富瑞分析师Flavio Cereda就曾预测，经济活动的长期中断很可能导致大多数品牌的供应链出现问题。
Flavio Cereda, a Wall Street investor, predicted that a prolonged disruption in economic activity would likely cause supply-chain problems for most brands.
在疫情严重的地区会更快看到这一现象。
This phenomenon can be seen more quickly in areas with severe epidemics.
路透社在3月9日的报道中称，随着意大利成为疫情的风暴眼，包括GUCCI和LOUIS VUITTON在内的奢侈品牌都缩减了给意大利供应商的订单。
Luxury brands, including GUCCI and LOUIS VUITTON, have scaled back orders to Italian suppliers as Italy became the eye of the storm, Reuters reported on Monday.
一些当地纺织品和皮革供应商对路透社表示，事实上疫情在1月下旬在中国爆发时，订单量就已经大幅下滑。
Some local textile and leather suppliers told Reuters that orders had in fact fallen sharply when the outbreak broke out in China in late January.
“我们每月为GUCCI生产800-1000个手袋。
"We make 800 to 1,000 handbags a month for GUCCI.
今年2月我们生产了450个，3月份没有订单，”一家小型供应商老板说，GUCCI母公司开云集团是该供应商的主要客户之一。
We produced 450 in February and placed no orders in March, "said Kaiyun, the company's parent company, one of its main customers.
他还称，4、5月份的订单也毫无着落，不得不临时裁员。
He also said orders for April and May were unfunded and had to be temporarily cut.
总部位于斯堪的纳维亚的生产商Almax为10个品牌生产手袋，包括开云集团旗下的SAINT LAURENT、GUCCI和巴黎世家，以及LVMH集团的部分品牌。
Scandinavian-based Almax makes handbags for 10 brands, including Kaiyun Group's SAINT LAURENT, GUCCI and the Paris family, as well as some of the LVMH brands.
该生产商的拥有者Massimiliano Guerrini称，此前中国疫情严重时，订单量也下降了几个百分点。
Massimiliano Guerrini, owner of the company, said orders had fallen by a few percentage points in the wake of a severe outbreak in China.
“意大利现在的情况可能会导致企业消亡得比人类多。
"What is happening in Italy could cause companies to die out more than humans.
”Guerrini说。
"said Guerrini.
路透社援引一位知情人士消息称，意大利奢侈品牌菲拉格慕已告知员工在接下来近两个月内实行一周上四天班的规定，并且停止新员工招聘，并续签定期工作合同。
Italian luxury brand Ferragamo has told its employees to work four days a week for the next two months and to stop recruiting new staff and renew fixed-term contracts, Reuters quoted a person familiar with the matter as saying.
Giorgio Armani则在在闭门举办大秀之后，于2月下旬关闭了意大利北部工厂一周。
Giorgio Armani closed its factory in northern Italy for a week in late February, after a closed-door show.
截至3月13日8时，意大利新增确诊2651例，累计确诊15113例，死亡1016人。
As of 0800 hours on March 13, 2651 new cases had been confirmed in Italy, with a cumulative total of 15,113 confirmed cases and 1,016 deaths.
加拿大总理特鲁多的妻子也已在13日被确诊，特鲁多则开始自我隔离。
Canada's Prime Minister Trudeau's wife has also been diagnosed on the 13th, Trudeau began self-isolation.
当地时尚业也紧张起来，资本市场先失去了信心，导致意大利奢侈品集团股价集体下跌。
The local fashion industry has also become nervous, with capital markets losing confidence first, leading to a collective fall in Italian luxury group shares.
Tod’s股价一度大跌11.1%，Salvatore Ferragamo股价也曾下跌9.2%，Safilo集团股价跌幅达到8.2%，Moncler股价也最多下跌过5.8%。
Shares in Tod's plunged 11.1%, Salvatore Ferragamo dropped 9.2%, Safilo fell 8.2%, and Moncler's shares fell 5.8% at most.
全球人气最高的时尚博主之一Chiara Ferragni是意大利人，她近两日多次在社交媒体上呼吁粉丝重视疫情的危险性。
Chiara Ferragni, one of the world's most popular fashion bloggers and an Italian, has spent the past two days on social media calling attention to the dangers of the epidemic.
她提到，意大利病例十分多且许多人无法得到有效救治，医院还没有做好准备去应对越来越恶劣的情况。
She mentioned that Italy had a large number of cases and many people were not being treated effectively and that hospitals were not ready to deal with the worsening situation.
为此，她已发起众筹帮助米兰的一家医院。
To that end, she has launched a crowdfunding campaign to help a hospital in Milan.
有6.5万多家品牌成员的意大利时装协会Confindustria Moda CEO Claudio Marenzi此前在接受《女装日报》采访时称，正在研究协会和品牌如何在纺织品、时装供应链上相互帮助，但目前很难对成效、影响作出任何预测。
Claudio Marenzi, chief executive of the Italian fashion association Confindustria Moda, which has more than 65,000 brands, told Women's Dress Daily: "We are looking at how associations and brands can help each other in textile and fashion supply chains, but it is difficult to make any predictions about effectiveness or impact."
除了供应链端，欧洲许多奢侈品牌都因疫情被迫改变了上半年的线下活动计划。
Beyond the supply chain, many luxury brands in Europe have been forced by the epidemic to alter their offline plans for the first half of the year.
例如GUCCI取消了原定于5月18日在美国旧金山举办的2021度假系列发布会。
GUCCI, for example, canceled its 2021 vacation series, originally scheduled for May 18 in San Francisco, USA.
Burberry本计划在4月底于上海举办2020秋冬系列复刻秀，也已宣布推迟。
Burberry's plan to host the 2020 Autumn and Winter Series in Shanghai at the end of April has also been postponed.
Prada推迟了原定于5月21日在日本举办的度假大秀。
Prada postponed the holiday show, originally scheduled for May 21 in Japan.
Chanel、Dior和Max Mara等品牌的相关安排也有变动。
The arrangements for brands such as Chanel, Dior and Max Mara have also changed.
大秀虽然是所有品牌最重要的线下活动之一，但很容易因为大量人群聚集而造成传播病毒的风险。
Although Dashuo is one of the most important offline activities of all brands, it is easy to spread the virus because of the large crowd.
GUCCI近日就得知，有2位在2月19日出席2020秋冬系列发布会的观众被确诊为新冠肺炎。
GUCCI recently learned that two people who attended the autumn and winter 2020 series of presentations on February 19 were diagnosed with pneumonia.
虽然目前并无证据表明他们是在GUCCI秀场被感染，但该品牌还是快速与其他出席者取得联系，并告知此事件的重要性。
Although there is no evidence that they were infected at the GUCCI show site, the brand quickly contacted other attendees and informed them of the importance of the event.
GUCCI方面曾就此事对界面时尚表示：“在这段特殊时期，古驰将始终心系所有受到疫情影响的人们及地区，并严格遵循政府规定之防疫措施，以确保员工与宾客的健康。
Gucci told Interface Fashion on the matter: "During this special period, Gucci will always be concerned about all people and areas affected by the epidemic, and will strictly adhere to the government's epidemic prevention measures to ensure the health of employees and guests.
”这将是所有欧洲奢侈品牌的一场长久战。
It will be a long battle for all European luxury brands.
根据意大利奢侈品协会Altagamma、咨询公司BCG和资产管理公司Bernstein的最新调查报告，2020年全球奢侈品公司将损失至少100亿欧元利润。
According to the latest survey by Altagamma, an Italian luxury goods association, BCG, a consultancy, and Bernstein, an asset management firm, global luxury goods companies will lose at least €10 billion in profits in 2020.
大多数参与调查者均预测，此次疫情对全球奢侈品市场的负面影响将持续到未来3个月至半年内。
Most respondents predict the epidemic's negative impact on the global luxury goods market will continue for the next three to six months.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
GUCCI等奢侈品缩减供应商订单，你买的包要延后了。
Luxury goods such as GUCCI shrink supplier orders, and your bag is delayed.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "美妆时尚";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "GUCCI等奢侈品缩减供应商订单，你买的包要延后了";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "GUCCI一个意大利供应商称2月订单数量骤减，3月份没有接到订单，4、5月的订单也毫无着落。
var msg _ desc = & quot; an Italian supplier with GUCCI claims that February orders fell sharply, that no orders were received in March, and that no orders were available for April or May.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
