加拿大矿业大会与会者出现新冠患者，加拿大总理曾到场致辞。
Participants at the Canadian Mining Congress had a new champion, and the Prime Minister of Canada had delivered a speech.
周小飏。
Zhou Xiaoshui.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
2020年加拿大矿业大会现场。
Site of the 2020 Canadian Mining Congress.
图片来源：搜狐记者 ：周小飏“ 该大会吸引了全球130个国家的2.5万人参与。
Photograph: Sohu reporter: Zhou Xiaoshui "The Congress attracts 25,000 people from 130 countries around the world.
”据美国《政客》杂志3月11日报道，一名参加了2020年加拿大国际矿业展览会的人士确诊为新冠肺炎患者。
A person who attended the 2020 Canada International Mining Fair was diagnosed with pneumonia.
加拿大卫生部医务官员Penny Sutcliffe称，这位确诊男子50多岁，3月7日出现症状后寻求就医，目前正在隔离中。
Health Canada Medical Officer Penny Sutcliffe said the man, who was confirmed to be in his 50s, sought medical treatment after developing symptoms on March 7 and is now in isolation.
他被认为是安大略省第一起社区传播的病例。
He is considered the first case of community transmission in Ontario.
3月2日-3日，该患者参加了加拿大国际矿业展览会。
From 2 to 3 March, the patient participated in the Canadian International Mining Exhibition.
该矿业大会于3月1日-4日举办，举办地点为加拿大多伦多国际展览中心，主办方为加拿大勘探开发者协会。
The Conference was held from 1 to 4 March at the International Exhibition Centre in Toronto, Canada, hosted by the Canadian Exploration Developers Association.
大会吸引了全球130个国家的2.5万人参与。
The Congress attracted 25,000 participants from 130 countries worldwide.
加拿大总理特鲁多在3月2日到场致辞。
Prime Minister Trudeau of Canada delivered a statement on 2 March.
当地时间3月12日，加拿大总理特鲁多的妻子索菲（Sophie Grégoire Trudeau）确诊感染新冠病毒。
On March 12, 2006, Sophie Grégoire Trudeau, the wife of Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau, was confirmed to be infected with the new crown virus.
特鲁多未出现任何症状，将遵医嘱开始自我隔离14天。
Trudeau showed no symptoms and began to isolate himself for 14 days on medical advice.
根据特鲁多全球办公室发表的声明，索菲将立即开始隔离，她目前有轻微症状，情况稳定。
According to a statement issued by the Trudeau Global Office, Sophie will immediately begin isolation and she is now in stable condition with mild symptoms.
声明称，由于尚未出现任何症状，医生建议特鲁多无需进行新冠病毒检测。
Doctors advised Trudeau not to have to undergo a new crown virus test because no symptoms had yet emerged, the statement said.
鉴于此，医生认为，近期和特鲁多接触的人并没有风险。
In view of this, the doctors did not consider that the people who had been in contact with Trudeau in the recent past were at risk.
图片来源：推特参会的加拿大联邦自然能源部部长Seamus O'Regan发布推特称，因持续感冒，也不确认是否接触了确诊者，已接受确认新冠肺炎病毒检测的建议，目前在等结果。
Source: Canada's Federal Minister of Nature and Energy, Seamus O & apos; Regan, who tweeted that he had accepted advice to confirm a new crown pneumonia test because of a continuing cold and a lack of confirmation of contact with confirmed cases.
图片来源：推特上述加拿大卫生部医务官员Penny SutcliffeSutcliffe表示，为了防止疫情扩散，正在密切追踪参加矿业大会的人士，并监督参加矿业大会的人士自我隔离14天。
Source: Twitter's Penny Sutcliffe Sutcliffe, a medical officer at Health Canada, said people attending the conference were being followed closely to prevent the epidemic from spreading and were being monitored for 14 days of self-imposed isolation.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
加拿大矿业大会与会者出现新冠患者，加拿大总理曾到场致辞。
Participants at the Canadian Mining Congress had a new champion, and the Prime Minister of Canada had delivered a speech.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "加拿大矿业大会与会者出现新冠患者，加拿大总理曾到场致辞";。
var msg _ title = & quot; AT & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by the Prime Minister of Canada.
var msg_desc = "该大会吸引了全球130个国家的2.5万人参与。
var msg _ desc = & quot; the conference attracted 25,000 people from 130 countries worldwide.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
