加拿大总理夫人病毒测试阳性，纽约联合国总部首现新冠感染。
Canadian Prime Minister's wife tested positive for virus, first new crown infection at United Nations Headquarters.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
加拿大总理和妻子苏菲。
Prime Minister and wife Sophie of Canada.
来源：推特“ 作为预防措施，特鲁多也将开始自我隔离14天。
Source: Twitter: "As a precaution, Trudeau will also start isolating himself for 14 days.
由于尚未出现任何症状，医生建议他无需进行新冠病毒检测。
As no symptoms had yet developed, doctors advised him not to undergo a new crown virus test.
”当地时间3月12日，加拿大总理特鲁多的妻子确诊感染新冠病毒。
Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau's wife was confirmed to be infected with the new crown virus on March 12, local time.
在特鲁多办公室当天发表的声明中可以看到，特鲁多的妻子索菲（Sophie Grégoire Trudeau）将立即开始隔离，她目前有轻微症状但情况稳定。
In a statement issued by Trudeau's office that day, Ms. Trudeau's wife, Sophie Grégoire Trudeau, who is now suffering from mild symptoms but is in stable condition, will begin isolation immediately.
声明还说，作为预防措施特鲁多也将开始自我隔离14天。
The statement also said Trudeau would begin self-imposed isolation for 14 days as a precautionary measure.
但由于尚未出现任何症状，医生建议他无需进行新冠病毒检测。
But since no symptoms have emerged, doctors advised him not to have to undergo a new crown virus test.
医生还表示，在近期曾和特鲁多接触的人并没有风险。
Doctors also said there was no risk to people who had been in contact with Trudeau in the recent past.
特鲁多办公室声明。
Trudeau's office statement.
来源：Global BC新冠肺炎疫情正在以令人忧虑的速度在北美持续扩散。
Source: The Global BC New Crown Pneumonia epidemic is spreading in North America at an alarming rate.
截至发稿，加拿大已有7个省发现了新冠病毒感染者，累计确诊病例150人，死亡1人。
By the time of writing, seven provinces in Canada had found people infected with the virus, with a cumulative total of 150 confirmed cases and one death.
为防范疫情进一步恶化，加拿大部分省份宣布取消并限制大型活动。
To prevent the outbreak from worsening, some provinces in Canada announced the cancellation and restriction of major activities.
不列颠哥伦比亚省、魁北克省和艾伯塔省都决定禁止250人以上的集体活动，魁北克省最大城市蒙特利尔还关闭了所有游泳池、滑冰场和图书馆，安大略省宣布全省公立学校从3月14日开始停课到4月5日。
British Columbia, Quebec and Alberta all decided to ban more than 250 group activities, while Montreal, Quebec's largest city, closed all swimming pools, rinks and libraries, and Ontario announced that public schools across the province would be closed from March 14 to April 5.
加拿大的邻国美国也在承受着新冠肺炎疫情带来的巨大挑战。
Canada's neighbor, the United States, is also facing enormous challenges from the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic.
3月12日，纽约联合国总部出现了首例新冠肺炎确诊病例。
The first confirmed case of New Crown Pneumonia was reported at United Nations Headquarters in New York on 12 March.
据路透社报道，菲律宾驻联合国的一名女外交官在周四被确诊感染新冠肺炎。
A Philippine diplomat at the United Nations was diagnosed with pneumonia on Thursday, Reuters reported.
菲律宾驻联合国代理大使Kira Azucena称：“从今天开始，菲律宾驻联合国代表团立即封闭，所有人员开始自我隔离，并将在出现症状时就诊。
The Acting Ambassador of the Philippines to the United Nations, Kira Azucena, said: "As of today, the Philippine Mission to the United Nations is immediately closed and all personnel begin to isolate themselves and will seek medical attention if symptoms arise.
目前我们假设所有人已经被感染。
We now assume that everyone is infected.
”根据联合国外交人员在线名录，菲律宾代表团位于曼哈顿第五大道，大约有12名外交官。
According to the online directory of United Nations diplomats, the Philippine Mission is located on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan and has approximately 12 diplomats.
3月10日，纽约市市长百思豪在奶酪店。
Mayor of New York City Betheshau is at the Cheese Shop March 10.
来源：推特出于对疫情的忧虑，纽约市于周四宣布进入紧急状态。
Source: New York City declared a state of emergency on Thursday because of concerns about the outbreak.
市长白思豪在记者会上说，目前纽约市共有95例确诊新冠病毒感染者，但这一数字下周恐将大幅增长。
Mayor Besho told a news conference that there are 95 confirmed cases of the virus in New York City, but the number is likely to rise sharply next week.
纽约市有29人现处于强制隔离状态，1784人自愿隔离。
In New York City, 29 people are now in forced isolation and 1,784 are in voluntary isolation.
他说，在紧急状态下，市长有权实施宵禁、关闭道路桥梁、停止公共交通、实行粮食配给制等措施。
He said that during the state of emergency, mayors had the right to impose curfews, close roads and bridges, stop public transport and introduce food rations.
他同时强调上述措施只是举例，目前并未真正制定。
He also stressed that those measures were examples and were not really in place.
白思豪还表示，对抗疫情可能要持续6个月之久。
The battle against the outbreak could take as long as six months, he said.
相信纽约市最终能够战胜疫情，但必须保证公立学校、公共交通，以及“最重要的”医疗卫生系统的正常运转。
New York City, it is believed, will eventually overcome the epidemic, but public schools, public transportation, and, above all, a functioning health-care system must be ensured.
他说，市政府将尽“一切代价”确保这三个系统正常运行。
He said the city government would do "whatever it takes" to make sure the three systems work properly.
白思豪还提到当局正在研判将市政停车场改建成临时医院的可行性。
Beishau also mentioned that the authorities were examining the feasibility of converting the municipal car park into a temporary hospital.
截至发稿，据多家机构实时统计，美国有超过1600人确诊新冠肺炎，超过40人不治离世。
More than 1,600 people have been diagnosed with pneumonia in the United States and more than 40 have died, according to real-time statistics from several agencies.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
加拿大总理夫人病毒测试阳性，纽约联合国总部首现新冠感染。
Canadian Prime Minister's wife tested positive for virus, first new crown infection at United Nations Headquarters.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "加拿大总理夫人病毒测试阳性，纽约联合国总部首现新冠感染";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Canadian Prime Minister's wife was HIV-positive, and New York City's first new crown at New York.
var msg_desc = "作为预防措施，特鲁多也将开始自我隔离14天。
var msg _ desc = & quot; as a precautionary measure, Trudeau will also begin self-segregation for 14 days.
由于尚未出现任何症状，医生建议他无需进行新冠病毒检测。
As no symptoms had yet developed, doctors advised him not to undergo a new crown virus test.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
