农业农村部：将转场蜜蜂纳入生活必需品应急运输保障范围，不得拦截车辆。
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs: Bees will be transferred into the scope of emergency transportation of necessities of life, not intercept vehicles.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：图虫“ 农业农村部提出，各地不得拦截蜜蜂转场及其产品运输车辆，确保养蜂生产物资、机具及产品运输车辆不停车、不检查、不收费。
Source: Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs: "All localities are not allowed to intercept bee transports and vehicles transporting their products and to ensure that bee-keeping production materials, machinery and products are not stopped, checked or charged for transport.
”农业农村部2020年3月12日发布《关于切实打通堵点促进养蜂业全面复工复产的紧急通知》，将转场蜜蜂纳入生活必需品应急运输保障范围。
On March 12, 2020, the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs issued an emergency notice on how to effectively open a hive for the full resumption of work, adding bees to the emergency transport of necessities.
农业农村部提出，各地不得拦截蜜蜂转场及其产品运输车辆，确保养蜂生产物资、机具及产品运输车辆不停车、不检查、不收费。
The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs has stated that all localities shall not intercept bee transports and vehicles transporting their products, and ensure that bee-keeping production vehicles do not stop, inspect or charge for the production of bee-keeping materials, machinery and products.
各地要积极为蜂农转场创造条件，对个别县乡封村断路、一概劝返等做法，要坚决予以纠正。
All localities should create conditions for beekeepers to turn around and resolutely correct practices such as blocking roads and persuading villages in individual counties and townships.
落实分区分级差异化防控要求，允许蜂农有序流动，开展放蜂等生产活动。
The implementation of zoning differentiated control requirements, allowing orderly flow of bee farmers, such as beekeeping production activities.
以下为通知全文：农业农村部办公厅关于切实打通堵点促进养蜂业全面复工复产的紧急通知各省、自治区、直辖市农业农村（农牧、畜牧兽医）厅（局、委），新疆生产建设兵团农业农村局：随着天气转暖，当前已进入蜜蜂转场和春繁的关键时期。
The General Office of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs has given urgent notice to the agricultural and rural (agricultural, animal husbandry, animal husbandry and veterinary) departments (departments and committees) of provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities directly under the Central Government, and the Agricultural and Rural Bureau of the Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps.
加快养蜂业复工复产，对于稳定蜂产品产量、增加蜂农收入、促进农作物增产增收具有十分重要的意义。
Accelerating the resumption of bee-keeping industry is of great significance to stabilize the production of bee products, increase the income of bee farmers and increase the yield of crops.
新冠肺炎疫情发生以来，在各地各有关部门的共同努力下，养蜂业正常生产秩序正在恢复，转地放蜂稳步推进，但仍有部分地区蜂农面临转场放蜂难、蜜蜂饲料运输难等问题。
Since the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia, thanks to the joint efforts of various departments concerned, the normal production order in the beekeeping industry is being restored and bee-keeping is advancing steadily, but there are still some areas where bee-keepers are facing problems such as difficulties in bee-keeping and transportation of bee feed.
各地农业农村部门务必要高度重视，坚持问题导向，采取务实有效措施，进一步打通堵点，推动养蜂业尽快全面复工复产。
Agricultural and rural departments everywhere must attach great importance to the issue, adhere to the issue-oriented, adopt practical and effective measures, further unblock the spots, and promote the bee-keeping industry to resume production as soon as possible.
现将有关事项通知如下。
The relevant matters are hereby notified.
一、畅通交通运输。
Unblocked transport.
各地要认真贯彻《农业农村部办公厅、国家发展改革委办公厅、交通运输部办公厅关于解决当前实际困难加快养殖业复工复产的紧急通知》（农办牧〔2020〕14号）要求，切实将转场蜜蜂纳入生活必需品应急运输保障范围，做到“一断三不断”“三不一优先”，确保便捷快速通行。
All localities should earnestly implement the Emergency Circular of the General Office of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, the Office of the National Development and Reform Commission and the General Office of the Ministry of Transport and Communications to solve current practical difficulties and accelerate the resumption of operations.
不得拦截蜜蜂转场及其产品运输车辆，确保养蜂生产物资、机具及产品运输车辆不停车、不检查、不收费。
No bees shall be stopped from transferring sites or transporting vehicles of their products, and no parking, inspection or charge shall be paid for bee-keeping production materials, machinery and equipment and vehicles transporting products.
各地要积极为蜂农转场创造条件，对个别县乡封村断路、一概劝返等做法，要坚决予以纠正，切实打通蜂农转场“最后一公里”。
All localities should actively create conditions for beekeepers to change their farms, and resolutely correct the practices of blocking roads and stopping villages and villages in individual counties and townships, so as to effectively open the beekeepers' "last kilometer."
二、精准指导复工复产。
II. Precise guidance for resumption of work.
落实分区分级差异化防控要求，充分考虑养蜂生产实际，允许蜂农有序流动，开展放蜂等生产活动。
Implement the requirements of zoning differentiation prevention and control, give full consideration to apiculture production practice, allow orderly flow of bee farmers, develop bee-keeping and other production activities.
低风险地区要全面恢复养蜂生产秩序，确保蜜蜂转场出得去、进得来；中风险地区在采取必要防控措施的同时，要有序组织生产，尽量在空旷远离人群的区域进行放蜂；高风险地区要稳妥恢复养蜂生产，保障白糖、花粉等必要生产物资的供应。
In low-risk areas, the production order of bees should be fully restored to ensure that bees can move out and get in and out of the field; middle-risk areas should organize production in an orderly manner while taking necessary control measures and releasing bees in areas as far away from the crowd as possible.
转地蜂农因疫情防控确需隔离的，允许其在空旷远离人群的蜜源地自行隔离、护理蜂群，并接受地方监督。
Transported bee farmers because of the disease control really need to be isolated, allowing them to open away from the crowd in the honey source self-isolation, care for bees, and local supervision.
湖北省要结合本地实际，组织蜂农在本省范围内有序放蜂。
Hubei province should combine local reality, organize bee-farmer to release bee orderly within province limits.
三、加强技术培训与服务。
Strengthening technical training and services.
发挥畜牧兽医技术支撑机构和行业协会作用，利用新媒体手段为蜂农答疑释惑，开展远程培训服务，提升蜂群饲养管理水平。
Produce the role of animal husbandry and veterinary technology support organizations and trade associations, use new media means to answer questions for beekeepers, carry out distance training services, improve the management of beekeeping.
及时发布蜜源分布、放蜂场地、载蜂量等动态信息，公布联系电话，协助转地蜂农安排放蜂场地。
Timely release of honey distribution, bee-keeping sites, bee-carrying dynamic information, the announcement of contact telephone, to help the ground wasp emissions bee-site.
协助外地蜂农采购蜜蜂饲料、蜂药、蜂机具等必备的生产物资，确保生产正常开展。
Assist non-resident bee farmers to purchase necessary production materials such as bee feed, propolis, bee-bee, etc. to ensure the normal production.
推动蜂农与蜂产品加工销售企业对接，帮助蜂农多渠道解决蜂产品卖难问题。
Promote the hummingfarmer and propolis processing and marketing enterprises docking, help bee farmers to solve the multi-channel problem of bee products selling.
四、完善工作协调机制。
Improve the coordination mechanism of work.
各地农业农村部门要在地方党委政府的领导下，会同有关部门建立新冠肺炎防控期间养蜂业复工复产协调机制，明确职责分工，设立热线电话，确保蜂农反映诉求有渠道、遇到困难有人帮、发现问题有人管。
All agricultural and rural departments shall, under the leadership of the local Party committees and governments, set up coordination mechanisms for the resumption of beekeeping operations during the period of prevention and control of new crown and pneumonia, clarify the division of responsibilities, set up telephone hotlines to ensure that bee-keepers report complaints through channels, encounter difficulties and detect problems.
省与省之间也要加强协作，推动蜂农健康证明互认互通。
The collaboration between provinces should also be strengthened to promote mutual recognition of bee farmers' health certificates.
各地要尽快组织一次摸底调查，详细了解本地蜂农转场、外地蜂农入场、蜜蜂春繁物资需求情况，建立工作台账，对于蜂农反映的转场难等问题，要即反映即协调解决。
All localities should organize a mapping survey as soon as possible to find out in detail the situation of local beekeepers changing their farms, the entrance of bee hives, the demand for their Spring Propagation materials, and set up working accounts.
要切实加强作物花期农药使用管理，防止蜜蜂中毒死亡事件的发生。
We should strengthen the management of pesticide use during the flowering period and prevent the occurrence of bee poisoning death.
五、加大政策支持力度。
Increase policy support.
相关省份要抓紧落实蜂业质量提升行动项目，改善蜂农设施装备条件，支持主产区养蜂全产业链发展。
The relevant provinces should implement the beekeeping quality improvement action project, improve the equipment conditions of bee farmers facilities, support the development of bee-keeping industry chain in the main production areas.
各地要统筹利用产油大县奖励、优惠再贷款和延期还本付息等现有政策渠道，给予蜂农适当支持；同时要结合本地实际，积极争取地方金融政策支持，加大金融机构贷款投放力度，解决蜂农复工复产流动资金不足问题，探索开展养蜂保险，降低养殖风险，帮助蜂农渡过难关。
All localities should integrate existing policy channels, such as oil-producing counties, preferential refinancing and deferred debt service, and give appropriate support to beekeepers. At the same time, local financial policies should be actively sought to support local financial institutions.
农业农村部办公厅2020年3月12日END点击图片查看相关内容。
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, 12 March 2020 END click on the picture to see the relevant content.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
农业农村部：将转场蜜蜂纳入生活必需品应急运输保障范围，不得拦截车辆。
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs: Bees will be transferred into the scope of emergency transportation of necessities of life, not intercept vehicles.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "农业农村部：将转场蜜蜂纳入生活必需品应急运输保障范围，不得拦截车辆";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & rsquo; & rsquo; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "农业农村部提出，各地不得拦截蜜蜂转场及其产品运输车辆，确保养蜂生产物资、机具及产品运输车辆不停车、不检查、不收费。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs says it is prohibited to intercept bee transports and their products and ensure that bee-keeping vehicles do not stop, inspect, or charge for bee-keeping.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '死去的蜜蜂，未卜的追花路和无助的养蜂人',。
A dead bee, an uncertain pursuit, and a helpless beekeeper & amp; apos;.
subject_name: '界面新闻',。
Subject _ name: & apos; interface news & amp; apos;;,
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
