皇马全队开始隔离，西甲西乙联赛至少暂停两轮。
Real Madrid are quarantined and Spanish Serie B is suspended for at least two rounds.
陈丁睿。
Chen Ding Rui.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国记者：陈丁睿“ 欧冠和欧联杯淘汰赛同样岌岌可危。
Source: China Visual Correspondent: Chen DingRui: "The Champions League and European Cup knockout matches are also at risk.
”北京时间3月12日晚，西甲联盟官方宣布：“由于皇马全队和其他俱乐部相关球员被隔离，西甲联盟认为对抗新冠肺炎的措施应该进一步提升。
"With Real Madrid and other club players isolated, the Spanish League believes the fight against Newcastle disease should be stepped up," Spanish league officials said on Tuesday night.
因此，根据皇家体育法案第664条，同意至少暂停接下来两轮西甲及西乙赛事。
Therefore, under section 664 of the Royal Sports Act, it was agreed to suspend at least the next two rounds of Spanish and West B competitions.
在受影响的俱乐部隔离期满后，我们会对届时的情况重新评估。
We will re-evaluate the situation at the end of the isolation period of the affected club.
”仅仅不到一天的时间，西甲西乙联赛便从原定的“空场”，改为暂停。
In less than a day, the Spanish league was suspended from its original "empty field."
源自皇家马德里俱乐部的突发状况，成为直接原因。
From the Club of Real Madrid, a sudden situation, became the direct cause.
据西班牙六台和《马卡》报报道，皇家马德里的篮球队球员——特雷·汤普金斯，在新冠病毒检测中显现阳性结果，目前已被隔离。
Real Madrid basketball player Terre Tompkins, who tested positive for the new Crown virus, has been quarantined, according to Channel 6 and Marca.
上周，皇马篮球队刚去米兰进行了一场空场比赛。
Real Madrid just went to Milan last week for an empty game.
而由于皇马足球队和篮球队都活动于巴尔德贝巴斯训练基地，他们作为潜在的接触者都已撤离此地，开始了两周的隔离期。
Real Madrid's soccer team and basketball team are based in Balderbebas, where they have been evacuated as potential contacts for a two-week period of isolation.
相关工作人员也包含其中。
Relevant staff are also included.
皇家马德里在官方公告中确认了此事，但并未提及具体的感染球员。
Real Madrid confirmed the incident in an official announcement, but did not mention the specific infected players.
可以预见的是，因为特殊情况的发生，“银河战舰”3月17日与曼城的欧冠1/8决赛次回合较量，也将因故推迟。
Predictably, the Galactic Battleship will also have to delay its first-quarter-final showdown with Manchester City on March 17 because of exceptional circumstances.
目前，欧洲五大联赛都在疫情之下做出了紧急响应：意甲、西甲分别暂停一个月和两周；德甲、法甲进入空场模式；而严格以感染数字作为执行标准的英超，很有可能在本周末也要迎来无人喝彩的比赛。
Europe's top five leagues have responded to the epidemic: Italy and Spain are on hold for a month and two weeks respectively, Germany and France are in free form, while the Premiership, which is strictly guided by infection figures, is likely to have no cheers this weekend.
就在西甲联盟宣布前两级联赛暂停后，有西班牙媒体称，欧足联已经在考虑让欧冠和欧联杯淘汰赛即日暂停，而不再坚持于空场作赛。
Just after the Spaniard announced the suspension of the first two league matches, Spanish media reported that UEFA are already considering suspending the Champions League and the knockout stages of the tournament without insisting on playing in space.
此前，尤文图斯俱乐部已经对外公布：“队内球员丹尼尔·鲁加尼的新冠病毒检测结果为阳性，目前尚无肺炎症状。
Juventus have already revealed that "player Daniel Rugani has tested positive for the new crown virus and has no symptoms of pneumonia.
对于该球员和相关接触者，俱乐部已经按照法律启动隔离程序。
In the case of the player and the contacts, the club has initiated isolation proceedings in accordance with the law.
”此后，刚与尤文图斯进行完意甲联赛的国际米兰也很快发声：“在尤文图斯足球俱乐部确认队内球员鲁加尼确诊COVID-19之后，国际米兰足球俱乐部在此宣布暂停全部竞技活动，直到进一步通知。
Inter Milan, who have just finished Serie A with Juventus, have since spoken: "After Juventus confirmed that player Rugani has confirmed the diagnosis of COVID-19, Inter Football Club hereby announces a suspension of all competitive activities until further notice.
俱乐部现正开展行动，采取所有必要措施。
The club is taking action to take all necessary measures.
”由于尤文图斯没有公布鲁加尼的采样时间，他的密切接触范围究竟有多达，目前还无法确认。
As Juventus did not disclose when Rugani was sampled, it was not possible to confirm the extent of his close contacts.
当下可以确定的是，鲁加尼在两天前还参加了尤文图斯的队内训练。
It is now certain that Rugani was involved in Juventus' in-team training two days ago.
北京时间3月12日早上，鲁加尼在社交媒体上如是写道：“你们可能看到新闻了，我想让所有担心我的人放心，我很好，我请大家遵守规则，因为这个病毒无差别对待，我们要为了我们自己，为自己爱的人，为我们的身边人，谢谢。
On the morning of March 12, Rugani said on social media: "You may have seen the news, and I want to reassure all those who are concerned about me that I am fine. I ask everyone to follow the rules because this virus is not discriminatory, we have to do it for ourselves, for the people we love, for the people close to us, thank you.
”据《都灵体育报》报道，鲁加尼的队友、尚在马德拉停留的C罗，有意发布声明呼吁世界体育赛事全部暂停，以此应对疫情的蔓延。
According to the Turin Sports News, Lugani teammate Ronaldo, who is still in Madeira, intends to respond to the epidemic by issuing a statement calling for a full suspension of world sporting events.
有未经证实的消息称，C罗已经进行了两次检测，结果均为阴性。
There are unconfirmed reports that Ronaldo has been tested twice, with negative results.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
皇马全队开始隔离，西甲西乙联赛至少暂停两轮。
Real Madrid are quarantined and Spanish Serie B is suspended for at least two rounds.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "皇马全队开始隔离，西甲西乙联赛至少暂停两轮";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Real & quot; Real & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "欧冠和欧联杯淘汰赛同样岌岌可危。
var msg _ desc = & quot; the Champions League and European Cup knockout stages are also at risk.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
