古巴现首例新冠确诊、巴西股市大跌：拉美准备好了吗？。
Cuba is now the first case of a new crown, Brazil's stock market plummeted: is Latin America ready?
安晶。
Anjing.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
古巴。
Cuba.
图片来源：迈阿密先驱报记者：安晶“ 虽然拉丁美洲目前受疫情影响较轻，但由于经济现状和医疗投入不足，一旦疫情扩散，各国将面临巨大危机。
Source: Miami Herald: "Although Latin America is currently less affected by the epidemic, but due to the economic situation and inadequate medical input, once the epidemic spreads, countries will face a huge crisis.
”正在遭受美国制裁的古巴首次确诊新型冠状病毒肺炎感染病例。
"Cuba, which is under U.S. sanctions, is the first case to be confirmed of a new coronavirus pneumonia.
疫情正式进入了这个拥有1134万人口的拉美国家。
The outbreak has officially entered a Latin American country with a population of 11.34 million.
由于药品和基本商品短缺，古巴政府呼吁民众自制口罩以抵抗新冠病毒。
The Cuban government is calling for people to make their own masks to fight the new crown virus because of shortages of medicines and basic commodities.
此外，另一个拉美国家圭亚那也出现首例确诊病例。
Guyana, another Latin American country, also had its first confirmed case.
同一天，巴西股市暴跌再次触发熔断机制。
On the same day, the collapse of Brazil's stock market triggered another meltdown.
虽然拉丁美洲目前受疫情影响较轻，但由于经济现状和医疗投入不足，一旦疫情扩散，各国将面临巨大危机。
Although Latin America is currently less affected by the epidemic, countries will face a huge crisis once the epidemic spreads, owing to economic realities and inadequate medical inputs.
据《哈瓦那时报》3月11日报道，古巴卫生部当天发表声明证实，三名意大利游客被确诊感染新冠病毒。
The Cuban Health Ministry said in a statement on the same day that three Italian tourists were confirmed to be infected with the new crown virus.
声明指出，10日，四名在中部省份圣斯皮里图斯省旅游的意大利游客因出现呼吸系统症状，被送往首都哈瓦那接受隔离检测。
The statement said four Italian tourists visiting the central province of San Spitus were being quarantined in Havana on Monday for respiratory symptoms.
11日，检测结果显示其中三名游客确诊感染，另一名游客结果为阴性。
On the 11th, tests showed three of the tourists confirmed the infection, while another tourist came negative.
这四名游客于9日抵达哈瓦那何塞·马蒂国际机场，当天便前往圣斯皮里图斯。
The four tourists arrived at Havana's José Martí International Airport on September 9 and went on the same day to San Spitus.
古巴当局正在对与四人有密切接触的人员进行观察，目前还没有人员出现症状。
The Cuban authorities are observing persons in close contact with four persons, none of whom have yet developed symptoms.
截至11日，确诊的三名患者还未出现重症。
As of November, the three patients diagnosed have not been seriously ill.
为应对疫情的到来，古巴卫生部本周称已准备好3000张专门床位和100张ICU床位。
In response to the outbreak, Cuba's health ministry said this week it had 3,000 beds and 100 ICU beds.
目前有约30名游客正在哈瓦那接受隔离观察，其中18人接受了病毒检测，结果为阴性。
Some 30 tourists are currently being quarantined in Havana, 18 of them tested negative for the virus.
卫生部长波特尔（Jose Angel Portal）在本周早些时候接受采访时表示，政府已经为应对疫情拨出资金，以提供治疗所需的药品、医疗设备和防护用具。
In an interview earlier this week, Health Minister Jose Angel Portal said the government had allocated funds to fight the epidemic to provide medicines, medical equipment and protective equipment for treatment.
治疗的药品中包括古巴本地生产的IFN-α2b干扰素，α-干扰素也被列入了中国《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案（试行第五版）》。
Among the drugs to be treated is the Cuban-made IFN-quart 2b interferon, which is included in China's new coronavirus-infected pneumonia diagnosis and treatment programme (trial version 5).
但波特尔承认，古巴目前没有足够的资源为普通民众提供口罩，因此只能提供指南指导民众如何在家自制口罩。
But Mr. Porter admits Cuba doesn't have enough resources to supply masks for the general population, so it can only provide guidelines on how to make them at home.
此前，古巴媒体已经呼吁民众用棉花、亚麻等材料自制口罩。
Earlier, the Cuban media has called on the public to use cotton, linen and other materials made of self-made masks.
古巴当地工厂则开始为医疗机构生产防护用口罩。
Local factories in Cuba started producing protective masks for medical institutions.
古巴的医疗系统由已故领导人菲德尔·卡斯特罗所创立，曾被誉为古巴革命的重要成就之一，是拉美洲医疗系统的典范。
The Cuban health-care system, founded by the late leader Fidel Castro, was hailed as one of the major achievements of the Cuban revolution and a model for the Latin American health system.
但古巴制药业有高达85%的资源来自进口。
However, Cuba's pharmaceutical industry imports up to 85 per cent of its resources.
受美国制裁影响，目前古巴正面临现金短缺和偿债困难。
Cuba is currently facing cash shortages and debt-servicing difficulties as a result of United States sanctions.
古巴2015年曾通过全球富国组成的巴黎俱乐部协商债务重组，但2019年，古巴未能按时偿还法国、日本、西班牙等国债务。
Cuba negotiated debt restructuring in 2015 through the Paris Club of the world's rich countries, but in 2019 it was unable to repay the debts of countries such as France, Japan and Spain on time.
去年，古巴需偿还约8000万美元。
Last year, Cuba had to pay back approximately $80 million.
按照协商规定，如果古巴不能遵守每年偿还计划全额偿还，则将面临高达9%的利息。
According to the terms of the consultations, Cuba would face up to 9 per cent interest if it failed to comply with the annual repayment schedule in full.
古巴此前承诺将在今年5月偿还逾期债务。
Cuba had promised to pay its arrears in May of this year.
雪上加霜的是，今年2月，开曼群岛的一家投资基金公司已经对古巴政府提起诉讼，指控古巴未能按时偿还14亿美元的债务。
To make matters worse, in February, an investment fund company in the Cayman Islands had filed a lawsuit against the Cuban Government alleging that it had failed to pay its $1.4 billion debt on time.
古巴有82%的商品依赖进口。
Cuba imports 82 per cent of its commodities.
在美国的长期制裁和封锁中，重要盟友委内瑞拉为古巴提供了廉价石油以及包括资金在内的各类援助。
Venezuela, a major ally in the long-standing United States sanctions and embargo, has provided cheap oil and various types of assistance, including funds, to Cuba.
随着委内瑞拉的经济崩溃，古巴也遭受了影响。
As Venezuela's economy collapsed, so did Cuba.
美国总统特朗普上任后，美国前国家安全顾问博尔顿直接把古巴、委内瑞拉、尼加拉瓜三国称为“暴政三套车”。
When US President Trump took office, former US National Security Adviser John Bolton referred directly to Cuba, Venezuela, and Nicaragua as the "troika" of tyranny.
美国对委内瑞拉实施制裁同时，也对把委内瑞拉石油提供给古巴的公司实施制裁。
The sanctions imposed by the United States on Venezuela have also been applied to companies that supply Venezuelan oil to Cuba.
由于现金短缺、无法偿债造成的进口减少，古巴从2016年就遭遇了药品生产停滞。
Cuba had experienced stagnation in drug production since 2016, owing to a shortage of cash and a reduction in imports caused by its inability to service its debt.
而在拉丁美洲，一旦新冠疫情扩散，将面临困境的不止古巴。
And, in Latin America, Cuba is not alone in its predicament once the new crown epidemic spreads.
巴西选民常年抱怨该国的卫生系统是最大问题，甚至超过腐败和有组织犯罪；哥伦比亚选民则将医疗视为比恐怖主义更严重的问题。
Brazilian voters complain all year round that the country's health system is the biggest problem, even more so than corruption and organized crime; Colombian voters view health care as a more serious problem than terrorism.
《美洲季刊》杂志指出，拉丁美洲在医疗卫生上每年的投入仅为人均949美元，远低于经济合作与发展组织（OECD）的人均3973美元，甚至连中东和北非都不如。
Latin America spends only $949 a year on health care, far less than the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development average of $3,973 per capita, or even the Middle East and North Africa, according to the American Quarterly.
拉丁美洲各国公共部门的医疗卫生支出平均仅占GDP的3.7%。
Latin American countries spend an average of 3.7 per cent of GDP on health care in the public sector.
在新冠疫情爆发前，国际货币基金组织（IMF）已将拉丁美洲今年的经济增长预测下调至1.6%。
Prior to the outbreak of the new crown, the International Monetary Fund had cut Latin America's growth forecast to 1.6 per cent this year.
截至目前，拉丁美洲共有约150例确诊病例，其中两人死亡。
To date, there have been approximately 150 confirmed cases in Latin America, of which two have died.
图片来源：美洲委员会在各国中，确诊病例最多的是有超过两亿人口的巴西，累计确诊52例，尚未出现死亡病例。
Source: Of the countries with the highest number of confirmed cases by the Inter-American Commission, Brazil, with more than 200 million people, has a cumulative total of 52 confirmed cases and no deaths.
大部分确诊病例都位于圣保罗州。
Most of the confirmed cases are in São Paulo State.
拉丁美洲的首例确诊病例正是出自这个区域内第一经济大国。
The first confirmed case in Latin America came from the region's largest economy.
2月，一名61岁的男子从意大利北部返回圣保罗，随后男子与30多名亲属举行狂欢节庆祝。
In February, a 61-year-old man returned from northern Italy to São Paulo, where he celebrated with more than 30 relatives.
该男子与亲属均被确诊感染。
Both the man and his relatives were diagnosed with the infection.
3月11日，受油价大跌和新冠疫情蔓延影响，巴西圣保罗股市圣保罗证券交易所指数第二次触发熔断机制，收盘时比前一个交易日下跌7.6%，收于85171点。
On March 11, the São Paulo Stock Exchange index in Brazil triggered a second meltdown, closing 7.6 per cent lower than the previous day at 85171, on the back of a sharp drop in oil prices and the spread of the new crown.
据新华社报道，当天下午，在世界卫生组织总干事谭德塞宣布新冠肺炎疫情从特征上可称为大流行后，该指数一度下跌10.11%，触发熔断机制，交易中断30分钟。
The index fell by 10.11 percent in the afternoon, triggering a meltdown and a 30-minute hiatus after the World Health Organization's director-general, Tham Desai, declared a new crown pneumonia outbreak characterized by a pandemic, Xinhua reported.
这是本周内巴西股市第二次触发熔断机制。
It was the second time this week that Brazil's stock market triggered a meltdown.
9日上午，圣保罗证券交易所指数一度暴跌10.02%。
On the morning of September 9, the São Paulo Stock Exchange index plunged 10.02%.
巴西经济部当天还发布报告，将今年巴西经济增长预期从2.4%下调至2.1%。
The Brazilian economy ministry also issued a report the same day, Brazil's economic growth forecast for this year from 2.4% to 2.1%.
虽然为拉丁美洲确诊人数最多的国家，巴西至今没有宣布实施入境限制。
Although Brazil has the highest number of confirmed cases in Latin America, no restrictions on entry have been announced to date.
卫生部仅建议民众不要近距离接触，经常洗手。
The Ministry of Health only advises people to avoid close contact and wash their hands regularly.
萨尔瓦多、秘鲁和巴拿马于周三宣布关闭全国学校；哥斯达黎加宣布取消包括足球比赛在内的所有大型集会；玻利维亚要求来自疫区的乘客自行隔离两周；智利要求对来自西班牙和意大利的乘客进行隔离。
El Salvador, Peru and Panama announced the closure of national schools on Wednesday; Costa Rica announced the cancellation of all major rallies, including football matches; Bolivia asked passengers from affected areas to isolate themselves for two weeks; and Chile called for the isolation of passengers from Spain and Italy.
出现拉丁美洲首例死亡病例的阿根廷则宣布对来自中国、意大利、法国、德国、西班牙、日本、韩国和美国的乘客进行两周隔离。
Argentina, the first Latin American death case, announced a two-week quarantine of passengers from China, Italy, France, Germany, Spain, Japan, South Korea and the United States.
2022年卡塔尔世界杯有两场预选赛计划于本月底在阿根廷举行，隔离规定也可能会对比赛造成影响。
The 2022 Qatar World Cup has two qualifying matches planned for the end of this month in Argentina, and the rules could also have an impact.
截至目前，阿根廷累计确诊病例21例，其中一人死亡。
To date, a cumulative total of 21 cases have been confirmed in Argentina, including one death.
病逝患者为一名64岁男性，曾到过法国。
The patient died a 64-year-old man who had been to France.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
古巴现首例新冠确诊、巴西股市大跌：拉美准备好了吗？。
Cuba is now the first case of a new crown, Brazil's stock market plummeted: is Latin America ready?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "古巴现首例新冠确诊、巴西股市大跌：拉美准备好了吗？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Cuba's first confirmed new crown; Brazil's stock market tumbled: is Latin America ready?;
var msg_desc = "虽然拉丁美洲目前受疫情影响较轻，但由于经济现状和医疗投入不足，一旦疫情扩散，各国将面临巨大危机。
var msg _ desc = & quot; although Latin America is currently relatively less affected by the epidemic, it faces a huge crisis if the epidemic spreads because of economic realities and inadequate medical inputs.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
