疫情中的硅谷：微软谷歌亚马逊都有确诊员工，几乎所有大会取消。
Silicon Valley in the midst of the epidemic: Microsoft Google Amazon has confirmed employees, almost all of which were canceled.
疫情中的硅谷：微软谷歌亚马逊都有确诊员工，几乎所有大会取消。
Silicon Valley in the midst of the epidemic: Microsoft Google Amazon has confirmed employees, almost all of which were canceled.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
The following article comes from 硅兔赛跑。
The following article comes from the rabbit race.
硅兔赛跑。
The silicon rabbit race.
10万创投人都关注的创新媒体，坐标硅谷。
Each of the 100, 000 VCs focuses on innovative media, coordinates Silicon Valley.
首图|Drew Angerer/Getty Images作者：Otter 编辑：Yingyue Li, Zi 本文来源：硅兔赛跑 （ID：sv_race  ）“ 挖掘数据价值、克制假消息、提供技术支持... 美国白宫号召科技巨头报团取暖”全球新冠疫情持续升级美国疫情恐临爆发点3月11日，世界卫生组织正式宣布新冠肺炎为全球大流行病(pandemic)。
http: / / www.yingyue Li, Zi. "Digging for data, suppressing false news, and providing technical support... The White House is calling for tech titans to keep warm." The global crowning epidemic continues to escalate.
世卫的确认，意味着目前全球范围内新冠病毒疫情的严重升级，也预示着新冠肺炎将对全球产生重大的政治和经济影响。
The WHO's confirmation means a serious escalation of the current global outbreak of the new crown virus and indicates that it will have major political and economic implications for the world.
随着全球新冠肺炎的确诊案例不断上升，美国的疫情也在全国范围内蔓延。
With the number of confirmed cases of pneumonia in the world rising, the U. S. epidemic is spreading across the country.
据约翰霍普金斯大学11日的最新数据显示，全美累计本土确诊人数1311例。
According to the latest Johns Hopkins University data on the 11 th, the total number of confirmed cases in the United States, 1,311.
每日新增确诊病患已呈指数型趋势增长，从1月至2月每日只有几例新增，到目前平均每日200多例新增，累计死亡人数已有38人。
The number of newly diagnosed patients per day has increased exponentially, from a few new cases per day from January to February to an average of more than 200 new cases per day, bringing the cumulative death toll to 38.
美国越来越多的州在新冠疫情面前“失守”，华盛顿州、纽约州、加州成为三大疫情重灾区，多州都相继宣布进入紧急状态。
A growing number of states have lost ground to the new crown, Washington, New York and California have become the three hardest hit areas, and many states have declared a state of emergency.
华盛顿州早在2月29日就拉响了疫情警报，截止11号，以累计366例确诊案例成为美国最严重的疫情中心。
As early as February 29, the state of Washington sounded the alarm, with a cumulative total of 366 confirmed cases by February 11, making it the worst outbreak center in the United States.
而位于华盛顿州西北部的西雅图市聚集了众多全球科技大公司，包括微软、Facebook、亚马逊、推特、谷歌和苹果等也都相继受到疫情风暴口的波及，短短几日之内已经有多家公司发布自家员工确诊的声明。
But Seattle, in northwestern Washington state, is home to many of the world's biggest technology companies, including Microsoft, Facebook, Amazon, Twitter, Google and Apple. Within days, many companies had issued statements confirming their employees' diagnosis.
据统计，大部分科技公司员工确诊感染新冠肺炎都来自西雅图市，微软共有3名西雅图员工确诊，其中1名来自旗下领英业务部门；Facebook有两名员工感染，分别在西雅图和新加坡；亚马逊公司有3名员工确诊，其中两名在意大利，一名在西雅图总部，Facebook和亚马逊都选择关闭自己西雅图的办公室；谷歌一名瑞士员工确诊感染新冠肺炎，苹果也于11号称自己位于爱尔兰办公室的一名雇员确认感染新冠病毒，暂无美国本土确诊的案例。
According to statistics, most tech company employees diagnosed with new crown pneumonia came from Seattle, with three Seattle-based employees, one from Seattle, two from Seattle and Singapore, two from Amazon, two from Italy, one from Seattle, Facebook and Amazon from Seattle.
和中国不同的是，美国每个州每个城市都有各自的地方法律和政策，除了纽约一个重灾区域New Rochelle强制封锁，美国其他地方对于那些可能会和新冠确诊患者有过接触的高风险人群，全部凭借自觉隔离。
Unlike China, each American state has its own local laws and policies, with the exception of New Rochelle, a major disaster area in New York City, and the rest of the United States relies on voluntary isolation for those at high risk who may have come into contact with patients diagnosed with the new crown.
在没有统一监测和监管下，那些重灾区中的科技巨头们纷纷选择“自治”，以保护自身和员工的利益，抑制更加严峻的疫情势态发生。
In the absence of uniform monitoring and supervision, the tech giants in the hardest-hit areas are opting for "autonomy" to protect themselves and their workers and curb a more severe outbreak.
美国科技巨头如何“自治”？1. 推特首当其冲Twitter是美国第一家大力鼓励员工在家工作，以避免传播新冠状病毒的科技巨头公司。
Twitter, the first technology giant in the United States to aggressively encourage its employees to work from home to avoid spreading the new coronavirus, has become the first technology giant in the country to strongly encourage its employees to work from home.
早在在3月1号，公司就宣布将暂停所有非关键性的商务旅行和活动，声明中强调，“我们的目标是降低公司和世界传播COVID-19冠状病毒的可能性。
As early as March 1, the company announced that it would suspend all non-critical business travel and activities, stressing that "our goal is to reduce the likelihood that the company and the world will spread the coronavirus COVID-19.
”随后的2号，在给所有员工的防疫邮件中表示：“鼓励全球范围内的所有员工在家中工作。
Subsequently, No.2, in an email to all employees, said: "All staff around the world are encouraged to work from home.
香港，日本和韩国办事处的员工必须在家中工作。
Employees in the Hong Kong, Japan and South Korea offices must work from home.
”Twitter发言人也表示, 对工作场所增加深度清洁和消毒，以及更多的视觉提醒，提高员工的个人清洁和防护意识。
A Twitter spokesman also said more in-depth cleaning and disinfection of workplaces, as well as more visual cues, would raise awareness of personal cleanliness and protection.
同时，Twitter的发言人还提到，包括小时工在内的所有员工都可以获得设置自己家庭办公室的费用报销。
A Twitter spokesman also mentioned that all employees, including hourly workers, can get reimbursement for setting up their own home office.
Twitter首席执行官杰克·多尔西本人也因为考虑到疫情的原因，取消了自己原本要去非洲待三到六个月发展业务的计划。
Twitter chief executive Jack Dorsey, for his part, cancelled his plan to spend three to six months in Africa to develop business because of the epidemic.
从高层到员工对新冠疫情的高度重。
The height of the new crown outbreak from the top to the staff.
2. 亚马逊第一个中招总部亚马逊由于位于疫情重灾区之一的华盛顿州，成为第一个有新冠肺炎患者确诊的科技巨头公司。
2. Amazon's first major recruitment headquarters was the first technology giant to be diagnosed with pneumonia in Washington state, one of the hardest hit areas of the epidemic.
3月2日，亚马逊公布自己西雅图的一名员工确诊了新冠肺炎病毒，据悉，这名员工于2月25日回家时感到不适，此后再也没有进出亚马逊大楼了。
Amazon reported on Tuesday that it had confirmed the virus in a Seattle employee who had returned home on February 25 feeling sick and had not moved in or out of the Amazon.
公司随即发布声明，鼓励其他有症状的员工待在家里，并且允许西雅图办公室员工在家办公直到3月底，同时表示公司会继续深度清洁办公室。
The company immediately issued a statement encouraging other symptomatic employees to stay at home and allowing Seattle office workers to work from home until the end of March, saying the company would continue to do thorough office cleaning.
3月5日，亚马逊相继关闭了自己西雅图的办公室，强制所有员工在家办公，并等候政策是否延期的通知。
On March 5, Amazon closed its Seattle offices, forcing all its employees to work from home, pending an extension of the policy.
在这之前，亚马逊已经在1月份对员工来往中国设置了旅行限制，并告知那些去过中国的员工回家之后需要进行两周的自我隔离，在家工作，如果出现症状则需寻求医疗救助。
Amazon had imposed travel restrictions in January and told employees who had been to China to go home for two weeks to isolate themselves, work from home and seek medical help if they developed symptoms.
3.Facebook关闭西雅图办公室3月5日，Facebook位于西雅图市分部办公室的一名员工被确诊为新冠肺炎。
Facebook shuts down Seattle office A Facebook employee at the Seattle office was diagnosed with pneumonia on March 5.
Facebook随即进入紧急状态，关闭了西雅图一处办公室，鼓励西雅图地区5000多员工在家办公直到本月月底，并在声明中表示：“我们已经通知员工，并且遵循公共卫生官员的建议，会将每个人的健康和安全放在第一位。
Facebook went on a state of emergency, closed a Seattle office and encouraged more than 5,000 Seattle-area workers to stay at home until the end of the month, saying: "We have notified our employees and followed the advice of public health officials that everyone's health and safety will come first.
”。
"
对于湾区的总部办公室，Facebook允许员工自3月9日起在家办公，并且会在本周决定是否继续延长在家办公的时间。
For its Gulf headquarters office, Facebook allows employees to work from home from March 9 and will decide this week whether to extend the hours from home.
同时，Facebook表示招聘将进行线上面试。
Meanwhile, Facebook said it would conduct online interviews.
4.谷歌政策紧随其后3月6号，谷歌总部宣布允许湾区的员工在家工作，随后谷歌高层发送了全公司范围的公开邮件，告诉员工除非有必要，否则应该取消一切大型活动，并定制了详细的旅行禁令，限制员工前往四个疫区国家出差，分别是意大利、伊朗、韩国和日本，并禁止任何去西雅图和三番地区办公室的访问活动。
Google Policy was closely followed on March 6, when Google headquarters announced that Gulf employees would be allowed to work from home. Google executives then sent company-wide public emails telling employees to cancel all major events unless necessary and customizing detailed travel bans to restrict travel to four affected countries - Italy, Iran, South Korea and Japan - and forbidding any visits to Seattle and three regional offices.
3月9日，谷歌首席执行官Sundar Pichai在内部邮件中提醒员工，“鉴于新冠病毒的发展势态，每个人都要做好随时需要在家工作的准备，”同时建议员工：“每晚将笔记本电脑带回家。
On March 9, Google CEO Sundar Pichai warned employees in an internal email that "given the new crown virus, everyone needs to be ready to work from home at all times," and advised employees to take their laptops home every night.
”对于那些必须来湾区办公室办公的员工，园区内的公车和安保都会照常运作，但会根据需求调整时间，同时每天都会保证深度清洁工作。
For those who must come to the Bay Area office, buses and security will operate as usual, but time will be adjusted according to demand and deep cleaning will be ensured on a daily basis.
虽然谷歌表示食堂会正常开放，但据悉，因为大部分人都选择在家办公，截止3月9日谷歌湾区办公室食堂大部分都已关闭，目前只开放了3-4个主要食堂。
Although Google said the canteen would be open normally, it said it had opened only three to four main cafeterias since March 9, when most people chose to work from home.
5. 微软西雅图夜未眠总部位于美国西雅图东部雷德蒙德市的微软公司，情况也并不乐观。
Microsoft's Seattle Sleepless Headquarter in Redmond, east of Seattle, is no laughing matter.
目前，已经有3名员工确认感染了新冠病毒，都位于总部办公室。
So far, three employees have confirmed new cases of the virus, all in their headquarters offices.
其中一例是公司旗下领英业务部门工作的一名员工。
One example is an employee working in the UK-based division of the company.
微软公布了自己针对疫情的远程工作政策，要求在新冠病毒疫情爆发期间，华盛顿州西雅图基地和旧金山地区的员工们在3月底之前都需要在家办公。
Microsoft has unveiled its own tele-working policy for the outbreak, requiring employees in Seattle, Washington, and San Francisco to work from home until the end of March during the outbreak.
同时表示会继续按小时支付正常的时薪，给那些向微软员工提供服务的人员，像公交司机、清洁工、食堂员工等。
It also said it would continue to pay regular hourly rates to people who provide services to Microsoft employees, such as bus drivers, cleaners and canteen employees.
仅在总部，微软就雇有4500名时薪工人，华盛顿州雷德蒙德园区的总体员工数高达54000名，占全球员工总数的三分之一。
At headquarters alone, Microsoft employs 4,500 hourly workers, while Redmond, Washington, employs 54,000 people, a third of the world's workforce.
6. 苹果允许“感染密度高的地区”远程办公据最新外媒报道，于3月10日, 苹果位于爱尔兰Cork园区一名员工确认感染新冠病毒。
Apple allows telecommuting in areas of high infection density An Apple employee at Cork Park, Ireland, confirmed contracting the new crown virus on March 10, according to new media reports.
本周，苹果公司首席执行官蒂姆·库克（Tim Cook）在公开声明中表示新型冠状病毒的爆发是一个“前所未有的事件”，另外他还鼓励该公司位于全球多个办公室的员工，在3月9日至3月13日期间，“如果你的工作内容允许的话，请进行远程办公”。
Tim Cook, Apple's chief executive, said in a public statement this week that the outbreak of the new coronavirus was an "unprecedented event," and he encouraged employees at the company's offices around the world to "telecommute if your work allows" between March 9 and March 13.
同时承诺，那些小时工将“继续获得与一切照常运营时一致的工资”。
It also promised that hourly workers would "continue to receive wages consistent with business as usual."
科技行业重磅大会纷纷取消或延期SXSW大会是每年3月在美国德州奥斯汀举行的一系列音乐、电影、交互式多媒体艺术节，在科技圈有着举足轻重的地位。
The SXSW Convention, a series of music, film and interactive multimedia art festivals held in Austin, Texas, in March each year, plays a pivotal role in the tech world.
3月3日，Facebook, 推特, 亚马逊, 苹果, Netflix等多家科技巨头宣布将不会参加今年三月在德州奥斯丁举行的 South by Southwest (SXSW)活动。
On March 3, technology giants Facebook, Twitter, Amazon, Apple and Netflix announced they would not attend the South by SouthWest event in Austin, Texas, in March.
同日，谷歌宣布取消 2020 年度全球开发者大会“I/O”大会，这本来是谷歌每年最重要的网络开发者年会，以往谷歌都会在大会上分享自己的新进展与新产品，但“出于对我们客户、合作伙伴和员工健康与安全的高度谨慎”还是被迫取消。
On the same day, Google announced the cancellation of the 'I / O' conference, Google's annual flagship Web developer conference, at which it had previously shared new developments and products, but had to cancel it "out of great caution for the health and safety of our customers, partners and employees."
随即谷歌还宣布取消了自己云计算“谷歌云下一步”年度大会。
Google also announced the cancellation of its own cloud computing "Google Cloud Next" annual conference.
无独有偶，Facebook取消自己今年 F8 年度开发者大会，并表示将会推出一些和开发者有关的网络直播活动，但细节尚未公布。
Similarly, Facebook canceled its F8 developer conference this year and said it would launch some live webcasts of developers, details of which have not yet been released.
鉴于对新冠病毒全球范围传播的担忧，微软也决定今年的MVP总峰会转变为在线活动进行，将按计划于3月16日-20日举行。
Microsoft has also decided to turn this year's MVP summit into an online event, scheduled for March 16-20, in response to concerns about the global spread of the new crown virus.
虽然微软还没有表明自己的年度 Build 开发者大会是否会于5月19到21号举办，但疫情无疑为大会蒙上了一层阴影。
Microsoft hasn't said whether its annual Build developer conference will be held May 19-21, but the event certainly cast a shadow over the conference.
3月6日，原定于 4 月 26 日于埃塞俄比亚首都亚的斯亚贝巴召开的人工智能领域的年度盛会ICLR 2020也面临更改，官方表示，准备将今年的活动改为线上进行。
On March 6, ICLR 2020, Ethiopia's annual gathering in artificial intelligence, originally scheduled for April 26 in Addis Ababa, also faced changes as officials said they intended to make this year's event online.
3月11日，在旧金山参加RSA网络安全大会的两名与会者被确诊感染了新冠病毒，随后亚马逊也宣布取消了本应于4月14日在旧金山的云计算大会。
On March 11, two participants at the RSA Cyber Security Congress in San Francisco were diagnosed with the New Crown Virus, and Amazon subsequently announced that it had cancelled the Cloud Computing Congress, which was due to be held in San Francisco on 14 April.
同日，IBM也宣布将取消原定于今年5月在旧金山举行的IBM Think 2020大会的现场活动。
On the same day, IBM announced it would cancel an IBM Think 2020 conference scheduled for May in San Francisco.
而通常在6月份举行的苹果全球开发者大会（WWDC），目前还尚未有官方消息宣布这一活动的具体安排。
As for the Apple Global Developers Conference (WWDC), which usually takes place in June, there is no official announcement to announce a specific arrangement.
要知道一般来说，开发者大会在科技行业的地位尤为重要，对公司整体的战略布局都有非常深远的意义，但随着新冠疫情升级的冲击影响，这些大会纷纷面临取消或转为线上，对于这些科技公司来说，都是非常艰难的决定。
In general, the developer conference is particularly important in the technology industry and has far-reaching implications for the overall strategic layout of the company, but it is a very difficult decision for these tech companies as they face cancellation or transition to the line as the impact of the new Crown Epidemic escalates.
白宫召集科技巨头抱团取暖美国时间3月11日，白宫紧急召集亚马逊、苹果、Facebook、谷歌、微软和推特相关人士，动员科技公司积极应对。
The White House rallied tech giants for warmth March 11, 2007 The White House rallied people from Amazon, Apple, Facebook, Google, Microsoft and Twitter to mobilize technology companies to respond positively.
“白宫目前的首要任务是保证美国人民的生命安全与健康。
The White House's top priority now is to ensure the lives and health of the American people.
科技公司应该在这全员备战抗击疫情的时刻发挥关键作用。
Technology companies should play a key role in this time of full preparedness to fight the epidemic.
今天的会议指出了未来我们要努力的方向，我们将持续举行相关讨论。
Today's meeting points the way forward, and we will continue to hold related discussions.
”此次会议的主持人，美国首席科技官Michael Kratsios指出。
Michael Kratsios, chief science and technology officer, chaired the meeting.
比如，科技公司应充分利用技术从现有数据库中提取有价值的医疗信息。
For example, technology companies should make full use of technology to extract valuable medical information from existing databases.
并与政府共享数据，帮助政府掌握疫情发展动向。
Data were shared with the Government to help it keep track of the epidemic.
如何控制社交媒体上快速传播的假消息，也是白宫关注的重点，需要Facebook和推特的积极配合，此前用来过滤恐怖主义信息的技术或许将重复使用。
How to control the rapid spread of disinformation on social media is also at the heart of the White House's concerns, requiring the active collaboration of Facebook and Twitter, where technology previously used to filter terrorist messages may be reused.
此外，提供远程医疗、会议和在线教育技术支持，保证工作和学习正常运转。
In addition, telemedicine, conferencing and online educational support were provided to ensure the proper functioning of work and learning.
在今天的会议前，很多科技公司早已积极地寻找机会发挥自己的作用。
In the run-up to today's meeting, many technology companies are already actively looking for opportunities to play their part.
比如谷歌和亚马逊等公司都表示会向美国大众提供关于新冠病毒的信息和技术支持，承担应尽的社会责任，来共同对抗日益严峻的新冠疫情。
Companies such as Google and Amazon say they will provide information and technical support to the American public on the new crown virus, assuming social responsibility to fight the growing new crown.
谷歌广告会帮助人们过滤掉虚假新冠病毒疫苗的信息。
Google ads can help people filter out false information about the new crown virus vaccine.
Facebook已经开始删除假消息和阴谋论，打击力度远超此前仅仅对假消息做出标记的动作。
Facebook has begun to remove disinformation and conspiracy theories, far more than it had previously done to mark false information.
“删除一切被国际和地方医疗机构标位假消息或阴谋论的内容。
"Delete all false information or conspiracy theories that have been labelled by international and local medical institutions.
” Instagram禁止了许多传播错误信息的#hashtags。
Instagram has banned many hashtags that spread false information.
亚马逊删除了100多万个声称可以治愈或预防新冠病毒的商品，并且试图遏制平台上的商家乘机大发国难之财。
Amazon has removed more than a million products that claim to cure or prevent the new Crown virus, and is trying to stem the tide of national disaster for businesses on the platform.
Uber除了在平台上发布新冠病毒警告和注意事项，也会关闭可能暴露于新型冠状病毒的司机账户以保证乘客的安全，届时大约240个用户的账户会被Uber暂时关闭。
Uber, in addition to issuing Novel Coronavirus alerts and caveats on the platform, will close drivers' accounts that could be exposed to the new coronavirus to keep passengers safe, when the accounts of some 240 users will be temporarily closed by Uber.
以微软和亚马逊为首，西雅图部分公司联合非盈利组织和政府机构成立基金会，250万美金专项基金将用来资助那些关怀慢性病患者、无医疗保险人群和医疗工作者的机构。
Led by Microsoft and Amazon, some Seattle companies have teamed up with nonprofit groups and government agencies to form foundations, and $2.5 million will be used to fund institutions that care for chronically ill patients, uninsured people, and health workers.
虽然根据数据来看，美国新冠疫情短期内仍会以每日揪心的数字增长，但相信在每个人，每一家肩负社会责任和爱心的企业共同努力下，相望相助，共克时艰，那么在不久的将来，一切都将重新恢复原本的热闹与美好，人与人也会因为这场突如其来的疫情考验，拉近彼此心与心的距离。
Although, according to the data, the US crowning epidemic will continue to grow daily in the short term, we believe that with the concerted efforts of everyone, every socially responsible and caring company, everything will be restored to its original excitement and beauty in the near future and people will be brought closer to each other's hearts and minds by this sudden epidemic.
本文独家首发于腾讯科技，未经授权，请勿转载。
This article originates exclusively in Tencent science and technology, without authorization, do not reproduce.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情中的硅谷：微软谷歌亚马逊都有确诊员工，几乎所有大会取消。
Silicon Valley in the midst of the epidemic: Microsoft Google Amazon has confirmed employees, almost all of which were canceled.
重磅！美国硅谷关闭！苹果、Facebook、微软近10万名员工回家工作                                        重磅！美国硅谷关闭！苹果、Facebook、微软近10万名员工回家工作                          ...                                                大洛杉矶LA                    不喜欢        不看的原因 OK     内容质量低 不看此公众号 对不感兴趣                           亚马逊员工确诊，当当员工确诊，阿里员工确诊！巨头战“疫”，大有不同！                                        亚马逊员工确诊，当当员工确诊，阿里员工确诊！巨头战“疫”，大有不同！                          ...                                                电商头条                    不喜欢        不看的原因 OK     内容质量低 不看此公众号 对不感兴趣                           损失超10亿美元！国外多个科技行业大会因新冠疫情取消或推迟                                        损失超10亿美元！国外多个科技行业大会因新冠疫情取消或推迟                          ...                                                正点财经                    不喜欢        不看的原因 OK     内容质量低 不看此公众号 对不感兴趣         。
Apple, Facebook, Microsoft close down Silicon Valley close! Nearly 100,000 employees of Apple, Facebook, Microsoft come home to work! Apple, Facebook, Microsoft nearly 100,000 employees come home to work... http: / / www.en-square.com / / www.youtheme.cn / / www.youtheme.cn
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "疫情中的硅谷：微软谷歌亚马逊都有确诊员工，几乎所有大会取消";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Silicon Valley in the midst of an epidemic: Microsoft's Google Amazon has all its confirmed employees, and nearly all of its convention cancellations;;
var msg_desc = "挖掘数据价值、克制假消息、提供技术支持... 美国白宫号召科技巨头报团取暖";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; digging for data, refraining from disinformation, and providing technical support... the White House called on S & T to include RHT.
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
