一个人六个码，健康码为什么这么难统一？。
A person 6 yards, why is health code so difficult to unify?
陆柯言 佘晓晨。
She Chen Lu Koyan.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国记者：陆柯言 佘晓晨  编辑：文姝琪“ 健康码是对城市数字化管理能力的一场试炼。
Source: Visual Chinese Journalist: Lu Ke Yan Xiaochen Editor: WenNingqi "Health Code is a test of the city's digital management capacity.
”在越来越多的城市，健康码上的红黄绿三种颜色，成为了一个人能否返学返工的决定性因素。
In a growing number of cities, red, yellow and green on the health code is a determining factor in whether a person can return to school or not.
从2月初开始，腾讯和阿里先后在深圳、杭州等地推出健康码相关服务。
From the beginning of February, Tencent and Ali in Shenzhen, Hangzhou and other places to launch health code-related services.
居民在申报身份证、住址、健康状况、接触史、旅居史等信息后，会得到一个有颜色的健康码。
Residents receive a colourful health code after they declare their identity card, address, state of health, history of contact, sojourn, etc.
健康码主要有两个用途。
There are two main uses for health codes.
一方面，它是公民出入公共场所的凭证，也是大多身份接受复工复学的必要条件；另一方面，企业、小区等根据健康码的颜色分类处置不同人员，进行精准的管控。
On the one hand, it is a certificate of access to public places and a necessary condition for most identity to resume work; on the other hand, enterprises, small areas, etc., dispose of different persons according to the color classification of the health code and exercise precise control.
每个城市的健康码都有一套判定规则。
Every city has a set of rules for determining health codes.
以杭州为例，在系统分析完个人信息后，会得到一种颜色码。
Take Hangzhou for example, after the systematic analysis of personal information, will get a color code.
其中，绿码可以在市内通行，红码和黄码分别要实施14天和7天的集中或居家隔离，在此期间连续申报健康打卡正常后，才能转为绿码。
Among them, green code can be used in the city, red and yellow code to carry out 14 days and 7 days of intensive or home isolation, respectively, during which time the health claims normal before switching to green code.
根据各方披露的数据，腾讯防疫健康码累计亮码16亿人次，覆盖20省300市，阿里云支持的健康码也已落地24省、逾200个城市。
Tencent's health code for epidemic prevention totaled 1.6 billion people, covering 300 cities in 20 provinces, according to data released by various parties, and health codes supported by Ali Yun have landed in 24 provinces and more than 200 cities.
随着健康码在全国范围内的推行，它和每个人的生活联系也愈加紧密。
As health codes are rolled out across the country, they are becoming more relevant to everyone's lives.
在健康码诞生之前，各地搜集数据主要靠各单位填报，程序较为繁琐；而社区人员出行则靠纸质通行证，存在交叉感染的风险。
Prior to the birth of the health code, the collection of data was mainly carried out by various units, with cumbersome procedures, while the movement of community members was based on paper passes, with the risk of cross-infection.
健康码推出的目的是提高复工复产的效率，它在很大程度上提高了数据搜集的便捷性。
The aim of the health code is to improve the efficiency of the resumption of work, which greatly improves the data collection convenience.
但同时，健康码的实用性也在推行过程中被质疑。
At the same time, however, the practicality of health codes is being questioned in the course of implementation.
在微博上，关于健康码“误判”、“太多太乱”、“执行不到位”、“信息不真实”的质疑声此起彼伏。
On microblogs, questions abound about "misjudgments" about health codes, "too much confusion," "inadequate enforcement," and "untruthful information."
健康码走红了，背后也有不少隐忧。
Health code has become popular, there are many hidden worries behind.
健康码是对城市数字化管理能力的一场试炼。
Health code is a test of the city's digital management ability.
码怎么变红了？微博上几乎每天都有人反映自己的健康码颜色异常。
How did the code turn red? Almost every day people on Weibo reflect their health code color anomaly.
杭州市民徐女士正是其中一员。
Ms Xu of Hangzhou is one of them.
她的防疫信息码发现，健康码判红的原因是“中国移动接口判定”。
Her epidemic prevention information code found that the reason for the red health code is "China Mobile Interface Judgment."
因为她的漫游信息显示，她在湖南吉首老家期间，也曾到访过湖北恩施。
Because her roaming information shows that she also visited Hubei Enshi during her hometown of Jikou in Hunan Province.
运营商客服向她解释，吉首与恩施相邻，她接收到了恩施的信号，才导致了这样的判定结果。
Operator customer service explained to her, auspicious head and Enshi neighbour, she received the signal of benevolence, which led to this decision.
在向运营商申诉后，徐女士的错误定位得到了更改，但在更改4天后，健康码的颜色一直没有改变，因此自己仍在隔离状态。
After complaining to the operator, Ms. Xu's error was changed, but after four days of the change, the color of the health code remained unchanged and she remained isolated.
她曾尝试通过市长热线和支付宝客服来反映问题，但都没有得到解决。
Her attempts to report problems through the mayor's hotline and Alipay customer service have not been resolved.
被查出红码后，徐女士被接入杭州一家酒店隔离14天，目前仍在隔离当中。
After the red code was discovered, Ms. Xu was placed in isolation for 14 days at a hotel in Hangzhou, where she is still being held incommunicado.
她本人是一家服装店的店主，被隔离导致她无法开张，同时还要承担房租损失。
She herself, the owner of a clothing store, was isolated and prevented from opening her own business and had to bear the loss of rent.
徐女士的遭遇并非个例。
Ms. Chee's case is not unique.
在“健康码变红”这一微博话题下，有不少市民反映自己的健康码无故变红，导致自己的工作生活受到影响。
Under the microblogging topic of "health code becomes red," many citizens report that their health code has become red for no reason, which affects their working life.
来自天津的一名网友声称，自己一直处于居家状态，但健康码却变红了，原因就是运营商定位发生了错误。
A netizen from Tianjin said he had been at home, but his health code had turned red because of operator positioning errors.
另一位网友则表示，自己从浙江温州（重点疫区）返杭已经21天，此前一直显示绿码，但有一天突然转红，他被强制隔离，至今不知道原因，而同行的家人却显示绿码。
Another netizen said he had returned to Hangzhou from Wenzhou, Zhejiang Province, 21 days after showing green codes, but one day he turned red and was forcibly quarantined.
各地对红黄绿码的判定标准不同。
The standards for determining red, yellow and green codes vary from place to place.
就杭州而言，判定标准主要与三个维度有关：一是空间维度，某人所在地区的疫情风险程度；二是时间维度，某人去过疫区的次数和时间长短；三是人际关系维度，某人密切接触人员的状态等。
In the case of Hangzhou, the criteria are mainly related to three dimensions: the spatial dimension, the degree of risk of an epidemic in one's area; the time dimension, the number and length of time a person has been to an epidemic area; and the interpersonal dimension, the state of a person in close contact with someone.
这些指标量化打分，最终形成三色码。
These indicators are scored quantitatively, resulting in a tricolor code.
跟据杭州政府披露的数据，杭州健康码上线四天后，有近3万人申请健康码复核。
According to data released by the Hangzhou government, nearly 30,000 people applied for a health code review four days after its launch.
官方建议，如果确定自身不存在异常行为的，建议耐心等待一段时间，健康码的颜色可能会进行更新。
Officials recommend waiting patiently for some time to update the color of the health code if it is determined that there is no abnormal behavior.
徐女士目前仍在等待健康码变绿。
Ms Xu is still waiting for the health code to turn green.
她对界面新闻表示：“我很赞同社区隔离高风险人群的措施，这也是为市民的安全考虑。
"I am in favor of the community's efforts to isolate high-risk groups, which is also for the safety of the public," she told Interface News.
但将健康码的颜色作为判断风险的唯一标准，我认为是不妥的，我们因为误判而受到的损失只能自己承担。
But using the color of health code as the sole criterion for judging risk, I don't think it's right. We can only bear the loss of miscarriage of justice.
”中软国际在本次疫情中参与了城市健康码系统搭建工作，其数据业务线总裁贾丕星对界面新闻表示，健康码是按照当地政府针对防疫重点监控人员规则定义，如识别：曾搭乘的航班、动车；家庭或者居住的小区出现了确诊或疑似病例等，按照大数据进行客观的分析和判断的。
The code was defined according to local government rules for key epidemic prevention surveillance personnel, such as identification: flight, train, confirmed or suspected cases in the family or residential area, etc., according to objective analysis and judgment based on big data, China Soft International participated in the construction of the city health code system during the outbreak.
“只要数据客观，判定逻辑正确，系统执行是客观的，如果出现误判，主要是原始数据准确性的问题。
"As long as the data objective, the decision logic is correct, the system implementation is objective, if there is a miscarriage of justice, mainly the original data accuracy.
就比如江西靠近湖北省界人员，可能从运营商轨迹角度，由于基站漫游问题误判为湖北，这种问题可以通过主动申报进行更改”，贾丕星说。
For example, Jiangxi Province near the border with Hubei Province, may be from the operator's trajectory, due to roaming base station misjudged to Hubei, this kind of problem can be changed through active declaration, "said Japit.
中南财经政法大学数字经济研究院执行院长盘和林在接受界面新闻采访时表示，政府应及时出台健康码统一的管理细则和配套制度，不仅要提示人们做好何种隔离措施，也要告诉人们为什么健康码“变红”，提高数据匹配的精准性，降低“误伤率”，不要让健康码变成摸不透的黑箱。
In an interview with Interface News, Pan He Lin, executive director of the Institute of Digital Economy at the University of Central and South China, said that the government should promptly issue uniform administrative rules and supporting systems to not only warn people what kind of isolation measures they should take, but also to tell people why health codes are "red," improve accuracy in data matching, and avoid turning health codes into inexplicable black boxes.
一个人，六个码更多没有被误判的健康码使用者，则被不同地区、不同平台、不同名义的健康码难住了。
A person, more than six yards of health code users who have not been misjudged, is bewildered by different areas, different platforms, and different names of health codes.
2月23日，武汉在全市推行“健康码”实名认证管理。
February 23, Wuhan in the city to promote the "health code" real name authentication management.
此后，武汉市民唐玉琳先后按照社区要求申领了微信湖北健康码、支付宝武汉健康码、全国防疫信息健康码以及社区电子通行证四个不同的“电子凭证”。
Since then, Wuhan city Min Tang Yu-lin in accordance with community requirements to apply for Weixin Hubei health code, pay Bao Wuhan health code, national epidemic prevention information health code and community electronic pass four different "electronic credentials.
不同的健康码分别起到什么作用？根据武汉市卫健委的官方解释，这些健康码最大的不同在于适用范围——武汉健康码是武汉市民日常出行的通行证，湖北健康码则适用于省内返岗人员，在全省可实现互通互认。
The biggest difference between the codes, according to the Wuhan Health Commission's official interpretation, is that Wuhan Health Code is the passport for Wuhan residents to travel daily and Hubei Health Code is applicable to returning workers in the province and mutual recognition can be realized in the province.
而社区电子通行证主要用于武汉小区出入管理。
The community electronic pass is mainly used for access control in Wuhan district.
唐玉琳告诉界面新闻，即便是已经申领了武汉健康码，也要另外再申领社区电子通行证才能进小区。
Tang told Interface News that even if she had applied for Wuhan health code, she would have to apply for a community e-pass to enter the community.
除此之外，她为了能够在武汉解封后返回广州上班，还注册了广东省的“粤康码”和广州市的“穗康码”，每天要在不同的软件上分别打卡。
In addition, to be able to return to work in Wuhan after the closure of Guangzhou, she also registered Guangdong province's "Yue Kang code" and Guangzhou's "Suikang code", each day on a different software card.
“每天到处打卡自己的健康状况，包括我在内的很多武汉人都松懈了，不量体温也直接上报健康”，唐玉琳说，“要打卡的码太多，有时候也会漏打卡，不知道哪个码对自己是有用的。
"Many Wuhan people, including me, relax and report body temperature to their health every day," Tang said. "There are too many cards to punch and sometimes I miss the card and I don't know which code is useful for me.
”出于对出行、复工等不同的需要，一位市民要申领五、六个健康码，这并不是湖北和武汉独有的现象。
It is not unique to Hubei and Wuhan that a citizen has to apply for five or six health codes due to different travel and work needs.
仅江苏一个省，就有南京“宁归来”、苏州“苏城码”、无锡“锡康码”等十几个不同的健康码。
Jiangsu Province alone, there are Nanjing "Ning return," "Sucheng code" in Suzhou, Wuxi "Sikang code" and a dozen different health codes.
这背后的主要原因是各地健康码尚不能互通互认。
The main reason behind this is that health codes are not yet mutually recognizable.
对此，国家卫健委人口家庭司司长杨文庄曾公开回应称，各地健康码尚不能互认主要有三个原因：不同省份的风险等级、响应级别和防控要求不同；各地健康码生成的标准不一；健康码只能证明受检者当时的状况，此后的健康状况不能简单地据此判断。
Yang Wenzhuang, director of the National Health and Wellness Commission's Population and Family Division, has publicly responded that there are three main reasons why health codes are not recognized: risk levels, response levels and control requirements vary from province to province; health codes vary from place to place; and health codes can only provide evidence of the client's current condition, from which subsequent health conditions cannot simply be judged.
比如，陕西的规定是，近14天内和确诊患者有密切接触的人员要判红码，但黑龙江则要求对确诊病例、疑似病例、无症状感染者的密切接触者统一判红码。
In Shaanxi, for example, people in close contact with patients diagnosed in the past 14 days are given red codes, but Heilongjiang requires a unified red code for those in close contact with confirmed cases, suspected cases, and asymptomatic infections.
对外经济贸易大学数字经济与法律创新研究中心执行主任许可曾公开表示：“要想让健康码发挥作用，就必须扩大其数据来源......实现对个人疾病情况的精准画像。
"For health codes to work, it is necessary to expand their data sources... and achieve accurate portrayals of the condition of individuals," the executive director of the Center for Digital Economy and Legal Innovation at the University of Foreign Economy and Trade said publicly.
而这迫切要求打破数据分割，一方面推动数据在政府内部的跨部门、跨地域共享，另一方面推动政府数据开放，利用社会力量发掘数据多维度价值。
And this urgently needs to break down the data segmentation, on the one hand, promote cross-sectoral and cross-regional sharing of data within the government, on the other hand, promote open government data and use social forces to exploit the multi-dimensional value of data.
”一个好消息是，长三角、京津冀等地区已经宣布将推进区域内健康码互认，浙江与河南、山东与贵州等各省之间也开始建立健康码互认合作关系。
The good news is that regions such as the Yangtze River Delta and Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei provinces have announced plans to promote mutual recognition of health codes in the region, while Zhejiang and Henan, Shandong and Guizhou provinces have also started to establish health code mutual recognition and cooperation.
此外，国家政务服务平台在2月29日推出了全国范围的“防疫健康信息码”，将逐步推动全国健康码互通。
In addition, on February 29, the National Administrative Service Platform launched a nationwide epidemic prevention health information code, which will gradually promote nationwide health code exchange.
隐私安全值得关注在贾丕星看来，健康码对于城市本次疫情应急核心价值有两个，一方面帮助解决个人对自己的接触史等信息掌握不对称的问题；另一方面，解决个人主观不愿意真实披露自己的信息，通过健康码转变为客观判定，为疫情防控工作提供便利。
In the view of Japit, the health code has two core values for the emergency response of the urban epidemic. On the one hand, it helps to solve the problem of asymmetry of information, such as personal contact history.
但同时，健康码之中包含了太多个人信息，如何保证这些信息不被滥用，也是公众关心的问题。
But at the same time, the health code contains too much personal information, how to ensure that this information is not abused, is also a public concern.
大多城市的健康码除了个人申报的信息外，还会根据外部接入的数据综合评判，包括火车、航班信息、运营商方面提供的行踪轨迹等，涉及到日常生活的方方面面。
In addition to the information declared by individuals, the health codes of most cities are evaluated on the basis of data obtained from external sources, including trains, flight information, tracks provided by operators, etc., and cover all aspects of daily life.
由于健康码主要搭载在支付宝、微信这样的平台上，有声音质疑，这些公民隐私数据会被互联网巨头利用。
Since health codes are mainly mounted on platforms such as paypal and micromail, there are voices questioning whether these citizens' privacy data will be used by Internet giants.
近日还有传言称，除了必要的检查程序，不能轻易将码示于他人，会因此泄露个人隐私。
There have also been rumors recently that, in addition to the necessary inspection procedures, it is not easy to reveal the code to others, which will reveal personal privacy.
由于此前有持码者将健康码发至朋友圈等公开场合，也有不少人对此表示担忧。
There have also been concerns about code-holders sending health codes to friends and other public venues.
贾丕星认为，这种说法是没有依据的。
Kapit believes that this statement is groundless.
他表示，健康码在加大政务为主体的数据集中、交换共享的同时，进一步加大了信息安全风险防范的难度，但政府构建的政务数据体系安全防范体系是比较有效的，仍然需要持续性增强，而互联网平台健康码服务流转的只是沉淀的之后判定结果，不带来个人原始隐私数据泄露的风险。
He said health codes make information security risk prevention more difficult while increasing government affairs as the main body of data collection, exchange and sharing, but the government-built government data system security prevention system is more effective and still needs to be continuously enhanced, while the Internet platform health code services flow only after the precipitation of the decision results, without the risk of leakage of personal original privacy data.
对于用户的隐私保护问题，作为平台方支付宝中也在健康码常见问题解答中提到，平台严格按照国家相关法律法规，确保居民所填报的个人信息安全和隐私数据不泄露。
For the protection of privacy of users, as the platform party pay treasure also mentioned in the health code common questions and answers, the platform strictly in accordance with relevant national laws and regulations to ensure that the personal information security and privacy data reported by residents are not disclosed.
工信部装备工业一司司长罗俊杰也在近日表示，作为监管部门，在数据分析使用的过程中，依据个人信息保护的有关法律法规，严格落实数据安全和个人信息保护的有关措施，切实加强监管，防范数据的泄露、数据的滥用等违规行为。
Rob Junjie, director of the Equipment Industry I department of the Ministry of Industry and Communications, said recently that as a regulator, data security and personal information protection measures should be strictly implemented in accordance with relevant laws and regulations on the protection of personal information in the process of data analysis, so as to effectively strengthen supervision to prevent data leakage and abuse.
贾丕星分析称，在健康码的推行过程中，互联网公司的角色一方面是“码“的服务中介平台，同时也是部分有效判定数据的提供者，而大量的基础判定数据还是是政务、公共事业和交通信息。
The role of Internet companies is not only the service intermediary platform of code, but also the provider of partial judgment data, but also the government affairs, public utilities and traffic information.
而些数据的融合，则为疫情中的城市管理提供了帮助。
The fusion of these data has helped urban management in the face of the epidemic.
贾丕星表示，健康码充分体现了政府静态数据，政府以及社会的动态数据的充分融合，基于“健康码“场景化数据服务产品的理念，是政务大数据服务未来值得借鉴和推广的模式。
The concept of health code-based scene data service products is a model worthy of reference and popularization in the future.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一个人六个码，健康码为什么这么难统一？。
A person 6 yards, why is health code so difficult to unify?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "一个人六个码，健康码为什么这么难统一？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; six yards a person, why is a health code so difficult to unify?;
var msg_desc = "健康码是对城市数字化管理能力的一场试炼。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Health Code is a test of its ability to manage digitally.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
