从德国到日本再到武汉，ECMO漂洋过海来救命。
From Germany to Japan to Wuhan, ECMO has come across the ocean to save lives.
谢欣。
Xie Xin.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国记者：谢欣  编辑：许悦“ 救命机器ECMO紧缺，不仅依赖进口，核心材料也面临紧缺。
Source: Visual China: Xie Xin, editor: Xu Yue "Life-saving machine ECMO shortage, not only rely on imports, core materials are also facing shortages.
”2月27日，日本静冈的码头上，由日本泰尔茂株式会社捐赠的3台体外膜式氧合（ECMO）设备及30套相关耗材套包及插管被送上了集装箱货轮“ASIATIC MOON”号。
On Feb. 27, three extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) equipment donated by Termao Co., Japan, and 30 related supply kits and cannons were delivered to the container ship ASIATIC MOON at the dock in Shizuoka, Japan.
7天后，也就是3月5日，“ASIATIC MOON”号到达中国上海外高桥保税区码头，次日一早，3台ECMO系统在通过后随即发车前往武汉，它们此行的最终地点将是疫区三家为人熟知的三甲医院——华中科技大学同济医学院附属同济医院，华中科技大学同济医学院附属协和医院和武汉大学人民医院湖北省人民医院。
Seven days later, on March 5, the ASIATIC MOON arrived at the Waigaoqiao Bonded Area Wharf in Shanghai, China. Early the next morning, three ECMO systems passed through and headed for Wuhan.
自从武汉大学中南医院1月22日使用ECMO成功救治一名新型冠状病毒肺炎患者后，这种在国内并不太常见的医疗设备忽然成了很多人眼中的“救命机器”。
Since Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital on January 22 to use ECMO to successfully treat a new coronavirus pneumonia patients, this kind of medical equipment in China is not common suddenly become many people's "life-saving machine.
国家卫健委从《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案》（试行第五版）起纳入ECMO，建议对于常规治疗不佳的危重型患者可采用ECMO作为挽救性治疗。
The NCHC has included ECMO since the New Coronavirus Infection Diagnosis and Treatment Programme (trial version 5) and recommends ECMO as a resuscitation therapy for patients with severe acute illness who are poorly treated.
但是，在此次新冠肺炎疫情中，这一被用作危重症病人救治的“最后武器”在全球仅有美敦力、理诺珐、迈柯唯、泰尔茂与费森尤斯5家生产企业，均为国外企业。
But in the new crown pneumonia epidemic, the "weapon of last resort" used to treat critically ill patients is the only global manufacturer of Medtronic, Renovada, Maycock, Termao and Fisenyus, all of which are foreign-owned.
根据中国医师协会体外生命支持专业委员会的数据显示，截止2018年底，国内共有260家医院的体外生命支持中心开展ECMO治疗，共计约400台ECMO设备。
According to data from the Specialist Committee on Extracorporeal Life Support of the Chinese Medical Association, by the end of 2018 ECMO treatment was available in 260 hospitals in the country, with a total of about 400 ECMO devices.
而在武汉，据悉也只有武汉亚心总医院、同济医院与协和医院三家心外科为优势学科的院内拥有较多ECMO设备，而据此前报道，ECMO在武大人民医院、武汉市中心医院和武汉大学中南医院数量仅为1台、2台和4台。
As previously reported, ECMO has only one hospital in Wuhan, two in Tongji Hospital and four in Zhongnan Hospital, Wuhan City Central Hospital and Wuhan University.
ECMO是一种用于协助重症心肺衰竭患者进行体外呼吸循环的急救设备。
ECMO is a first aid device used to assist patients with severe cardiopulmonary failure to circulate in vitro.
其原理是将血液从静脉中抽出，流经膜肺氧合血红蛋白并清除二氧化碳，再将经过气体交换的血液输回患者体内。
The principle is to pull blood out of the vein, flow through membrane oxygenated hemoglobin and remove carbon dioxide, and then transfer the gas-exchanged blood back to the patient.
ecmo在国内，ECMO主要被用于急性呼吸窘迫综合症（ARDS）的在ICU内的治疗，但由于价格昂贵且医保未覆盖，实际使用量并不大。
Domestically, ECMO has been used mainly for ARDS treatment in ICU, but actual use is low due to its high cost and lack of health insurance coverage.
因此在疫情发生之时，国内能找到的ECMO库存也寥寥无几。
As a result, few ECMO stocks were available domestically at the time of the outbreak.
求助者们不得不放眼海外，但这也并非易事。
Clients have to look overseas, but it's not easy.
泰尔茂中国心脏外科事业部产品经理梁继东对界面新闻介绍，由于需求量小，一般来说ECMO都是在接到客户订单后，厂家才开始生产，以泰尔茂为例，正常情况下可在收到订单需求后3个月内实现交付。
Because of the low demand, ECMO manufacturers do not start production until they receive orders from customers. Termao, for example, can normally deliver within three months of receiving an order, said Liang Jiedong, product manager for China's heart surgery department.
但武汉等不了3个月。
But Wuhan can't wait three months.
大年初二前后，泰尔茂心外产品事业部总监张文和他的同事们收到了一位前同事发来的关于疫区急求ECMO的求助信息，那两天里他们也看到了武汉中南医院使用ECMO救治患者的报道。
Around the second year of the new year, Zhang Wen, director of product division of Terre Maoxin, and his colleagues received a message from a former colleague asking for help from an ECMO in the affected areas, who also saw reports of patients being treated by ECMO in Wuhan's Zhongnan Hospital during the two days.
接下来的几天里，他们一头联系日本总部询问是否有机器与耗材的存货、一头联系国内医院、海关、药监等部门，确认医院的需求以及捐赠给国内所需的各项材料手续。
In the next few days, they contacted the Japanese headquarters to ask if there was a stock of machines and consumables, a contact with domestic hospitals, customs, pharmacists, etc., to confirm the needs of the hospital and the procedures for donating materials to the country.
三周以后，3台ECMO设备及其耗材在泰尔茂位于日本静冈的工厂准备完毕，设备也从日本用的110V电压改成了国内使用的220V，各项手续也准备齐全，可谓是万事俱备只欠东风。
Three weeks later, three ECMO units and their supplies were ready at Termao's plant in Shizuoka, Japan, and the equipment was converted from 110V voltage in Japan to 220 V for domestic use.
要把3台ECMO运往武汉，可能还真的需要东风。
To transport the three ECMO to Wuhan, there may be a real need for east wind.
由于电源无法空运，海运是唯一的选择，2月底时，泰尔茂约到了这艘“ASIATIC MOON”号，在海上航行了7天后，“ASIATIC MOON”号靠岸上海外高桥码头。
As power was not available by air, sea transport was the only option, and at the end of February Termo arrived on board the ASIATIC MOON, and after seven days at sea, the ASIATIC MOON docked at Shanghai's Waigaoqiao terminal.
这3套ECMO系统每套配备10套耗材，每套耗材可供一位患者使用14天。
Each of the three ECMO systems is equipped with 10 sets of consumables, each of which can be used by a patient for 14 days.
在武汉的装机最终由心外产品事业部的工作人员和一位泰尔茂台湾地区的同事通过视频连线方式指导完成。
The installation in Wuhan was eventually guided by a video link between the staff of the Extra-Heart Products Division and a colleague from Termao Taiwan.
不过，这还不是一台ECMO的全部故事。
But this is not the whole story of an ECMO.
在ECMO系统中，离心泵与膜肺是最主要的两个技术难点，前者代替心脏的功能持续给人体泵血，后者代替肺脏的功能使含氧量低的静脉血变成含氧量高的动脉血。
In ECMO system, centrifugal pump and membrane lung are the two main technical difficulties, the former replacing the function of the heart to pump blood continuously, the latter replacing lung function so that the low oxygen content of venous blood into high oxygen arterial blood.
据泰尔茂介绍，泰尔茂第一代的ECMO膜肺使用的是泰尔茂自己生产的纤维，一般只能维持3、4天，因此主要用于治疗时间较短的急性重症心肌炎病人，但这次捐赠的新一代ECMO膜肺使用的是PMP材料，可以持续运转14天。
Termao's first generation of ECMO membranes, which use Termao's own fibres, typically last only three to four days and are therefore primarily used to treat patients with acute severe myocarditis of shorter duration, but the donated new generation of ECMO membranes uses PMP material and can run for up to 14 days.
聚甲基戊烯（PMP）氧压膜即一种长效氧压膜，由3M生产，为目前多个ECMO生产厂家所采用，它在长达2、3个月运转后也不会出现血浆渗漏或是氧合性能下降。
The polymethyl pentene (PMP) oxygen pressure film, a long-acting oxygen pressure film produced by 3M and currently used by multiple ECMO manufacturers, does not exhibit plasma leakage or oxygen degradation after two or three months of operation.
聚甲基戊烯（PMP）氧压膜由3M在位于德国鲁尔工业区城市伍珀塔尔（Wuppertal）的工厂所生产，这里每天生产出数千公里长的聚甲基戊烯（PMP）氧压膜。
The PMP oxygen pressure film is produced by 3M at a plant in Wuppertal, an industrial city in Ruhr, Germany, which produces thousands of kilometers of polymethyl pentene (PMP) oxygen pressure films a day.
然后发往全球，其中就有泰尔茂的膜肺订单。
And then sent to the world, among which was Termao's membrane lung order.
但作为3M的独家产品，最近一年多时间里聚甲基戊烯（PMP）氧压膜就出现了产能不够的情况。
But as a 3M exclusive product, PMP oxygen pressure film has been running out of capacity for more than a year.
在3M每个月召开的产能分配会议上，公司会根据客户需求的大小等因素对聚甲基戊烯（PMP）氧压膜进行产能分配。
At 3M's monthly capacity allocation meetings, the company allocates PMP oxygen pressure membranes according to customer needs and other factors.
而实际上，来自ECMO厂家的订单量占比也很小，这也是ECMO短时间内“一机难求”的原因之一，一般来说订单交付周期为3个半月，但随着产能进展，这一时间目前所需的会更长。
In fact, orders from ECMO manufacturers are also small, which is one of the reasons ECMO is short-term "hard to come by," in general order delivery cycle of three and a half months, but as production capacity progresses, this time will now take longer.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
从德国到日本再到武汉，ECMO漂洋过海来救命。
From Germany to Japan to Wuhan, ECMO has come across the ocean to save lives.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "从德国到日本再到武汉，ECMO漂洋过海来救命";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & nbsp; from Germany to Japan to Wuhan.
var msg_desc = "救命机器ECMO紧缺，不仅依赖进口，核心材料也面临紧缺。
var msg _ desc = & quot; life-saving machinery ECMO is scarce, relying not only on imports but also on core materials.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
