汤姆·汉克斯在澳确诊，澳大利亚为疫情最坏情况做打算。
Tom Hanks was confirmed in Australia, which is preparing for a worst-case scenario.
刘芳。
Liu Fang.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
《阿甘正传》剧照记者：刘芳“ 美国已成为澳大利亚输入型病例的最大来源国之一。
Forrest Gump: The United States has become one of the largest source countries of imported cases in Australia.
新州首席医学官员表示，新冠肺炎或最终导致该州约150万人感染，占当地总人口的20%。
The new state's chief medical officer says the new crown pneumonia may eventually infect about 1.5 million people in the state, or 20 percent of the local population.
”“生活就像一盒巧克力，你永远不知道下一块会是什么味道。
"" Life was like a box of chocolates, you never know what the next one is going to taste like.
”3月12日，曾扮演阿甘的美国影星汤姆·汉克斯（Tom Hanks）吃下了一块让影迷们心跳加速的巧克力。
On March 12, American actor Tom Hanks, who played Forrest Gump, ate a bar of chocolate that made fans' hearts beat faster.
他在社交媒体Instagram发文称，自己和妻子丽塔·威尔逊（Rita Wilson）在澳大利亚黄金海岸接受检测时双双被确诊感染新冠病毒。
He wrote on social media Instagram that he and his wife Rita Wilson were diagnosed with the new crown virus when tested on Australia's Golden Coast.
SBS报道称，这位63岁的奥斯卡影帝目前正在黄金海岸拍摄一部关于“猫王”埃尔维斯·普雷斯利生平的电影，饰演“猫王”的经纪人。
SBS reported that the 63-year-old Oscar statuette was currently filming a film on Elvis Presley's life on the Gold Coast as the agent of Elvis Presley.
在此期间，汤姆·汉克斯和妻子觉得“有些疲倦，好像得了感冒，身体酸痛”，丽塔还有发烧症状。
In the meantime, Tom Hanks and his wife felt "a little tired, as if they had a cold, aching body" and Rita had a fever.
汉克斯对粉丝们表示，他们将遵守澳健康官员的建议，“接受检测、观察和隔离，只要出于公共卫生和安全需要......除此之外也只能看每天的情况来做打算。
Hanks told fans that they would follow the advice of Australian health officials "to be tested, observed and quarantined... only on a daily basis for reasons of public health and safety."
”据社交媒体记录显示，四天前汉克斯曾携全家在悉尼最大的海滩之一邦迪（Bondi）度假。
Hanks spent four days with his family in Bondi, one of Sydney's largest beaches, according to social media records.
根据新南威尔士州旅游部门的统计数据，2018年3月至2019年3月，共有260万游客到访邦迪海滩，其中170万来自境外。
According to statistics from the New South Wales tourism sector, 2.6 million visitors visited Bondi Beach between March 2018 and March 2019, 1.7 million of whom came from outside the country.
3月12日，汤姆汉克斯的Instagram截至当地时间3月12日中午，澳大利亚已确诊新冠肺炎病例142人，其中疫情最严重的新南威尔士州确诊77人。
March 12, Tom Hanks Instagram As of 12 March local time, Australia has confirmed 142 cases of new crown pneumonia, of which 77 were diagnosed in the worst affected state of New South Wales.
自3月7日以来，全澳境内至少有12例从美国输入的新冠肺炎确诊病例 （不包括因密切接触而确诊的患者）。
Since March 7, there have been at least 12 confirmed cases of New Crown Pneumonia (excluding those diagnosed through close contact) imported from the United States.
在澳大利亚先后对中国、伊朗、韩国和意大利实行旅行禁令以后，美国已经成了澳大利亚输入型病例的最大来源国之一。
Following Australia's travel bans on China, Iran, South Korea and Italy, the United States has become one of Australia's largest sources of imported cases.
目前，美国全国确诊病例已超过1000人。
More than 1,000 cases have been confirmed nationwide.
新州首席医学官员克里·钱特（Kerry Chant）对疫情发展形势并不乐观。
Kerry Chant, the new state's chief medical officer, is not optimistic about the epidemic.
她在新州议会预算委员会上发言时表示，新冠肺炎或将最终导致该州约150万人感染，占总人口的20%。
Speaking before the state legislature's Budget Committee, she said the pneumonia could eventually infect about 1.5 million people in the state, or 20 percent of the population.
“我们离峰值还很远，”钱特说，“目前（新州）已经掌握了有限社区传播的早期证据，现在是继续努力追踪和隔离新冠肺炎病例的时候了。
"We're a long way from the peak," Chant said. "Now that there is early evidence of limited community transmission, it is time to continue efforts to track and isolate cases of pneumonia in the New Crown.
”根据新州卫生部的要求，各大医院已将重症监护室的床位和带人工呼吸机的床位增加了一倍，以尽可能满足新冠肺炎和季节性流感带来的压力。
Hospitals have doubled the number of beds in intensive care units and those with artificial respirators to meet as much pressure as possible from new crowns and seasonal flu, according to the new Health Ministry.
虽然疫情前景不乐观，但钱特认为已有9000人在新州接受检测是让人欣慰的事。
Despite the bleak outlook, Chant said it was reassuring that 9,000 people had been tested in the new state.
她说：“如果你看看海外一些国家的数字，你会发现他们检测率实际上非常低，因此病毒的传播可能变得无法辨别，直到你不得不处理（患者）死亡的问题。
"If you look at the number of countries overseas, you will find that their detection rate is actually very low, so the spread of the virus may become indistinguishable until you have to deal with [the patient's] death," she said.
”除了在11日拨款240亿澳元加大检测力度对抗疫情外，澳大利亚总理莫里森在12日又推出176亿澳元经济刺激计划。
"In addition to spending A $24 billion on Tuesday to step up testing efforts to combat the epidemic, Australian Prime Minister Maurice Morrison unveiled a A $17.6 billion economic stimulus package on Tuesday.
有110亿澳元资金将于6月30日前发放完毕。
Eleven billion dollars will be disbursed by June 30.
《悉尼先驱晨报》报道说，所有正在领取养老金、残疾扶持金的家庭将从政府获得750澳元的补贴，涉及人口超过650万人。
The Sydney Morning Herald reported that all families receiving pensions and disability benefits would receive a government subsidy of $750, covering more than 6.5 million people.
莫里森表示：“这项计划是关于让澳大利亚人保住工作。
"The plan is about keeping Australians in jobs," Mr Morrison says.
这项计划是关于让企业继续经营，特别是中小企业，这项计划是为了确保澳大利亚经济在疫情结束后更强劲地反弹。
The plan is about keeping businesses going, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, and is designed to ensure that the Australian economy rebounds more strongly after the end of the epidemic.
”对于经济刺激计划的作用，澳大利亚财政部长弗莱登堡 （Josh Frydenberg）说：“我们不会告诉澳大利亚人如何花这笔钱，但我们从经验中确实得知，他们会花掉这笔钱，而消费将促进经济活动。
As for the stimulus, Australian Finance Minister Josh Frydenberg said: "We won't tell Australians how to spend that money, but we do know from experience that they will spend it and that consumption will boost economic activity.
”。
"
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
汤姆·汉克斯在澳确诊，澳大利亚为疫情最坏情况做打算。
Tom Hanks was confirmed in Australia, which is preparing for a worst-case scenario.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "汤姆·汉克斯在澳确诊，澳大利亚为疫情最坏情况做打算";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Tom Hanks was diagnosed in Australia, where AT & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; for the worst.
var msg_desc = "美国已成为澳大利亚输入型病例的最大来源国之一。
var msg _ desc = & quot; the United States has become one of the largest source countries for imported cases in Australia.
新州首席医学官员表示，新冠肺炎或最终导致该州约150万人感染，占当地总人口的20%。
The new state's chief medical officer says the new crown pneumonia may eventually infect about 1.5 million people in the state, or 20 percent of the local population.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
