NBA宣布停摆损失将超十亿美元。
The NBA has announced losses of more than $1 billion.
李晓庄。
Li Xiaozhuang.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国记者：李晓庄“ 3月12日，NBA官方确认2019-20赛季暂停，票房损失将至少5亿美元。
Source: Visual China: Li Xiaozhuang, March 12, NBA officials confirmed the 2019-20 season suspension, box office losses will be at least $500 million.
”北京时间2020年3月12日上午，2019-20赛季NBA宣布停摆。
On the morning of March 12, 2020, the NBA declared a halt to the 2019-20 season.
在犹他爵士和俄赫拉荷马雷霆的比赛前，犹他爵士队的法国球员戈贝尔核酸检测阳性，确诊新冠肺炎。
Before the Utah Jazz and Oghlahoma Thunder match, Utah Jazz's French player, Gobelle Nucleic acid, tested positive for New Crown Pneumonia.
此后，已经完成热身的两队球员，回到更衣室。
After that, the two teams who had already warmed up returned to the dressing room.
教练、裁判和NBA联盟商议后，宣布比赛择期进行。
The coach, the referee and the NBA league agreed on a date for the game.
不久之后，北京时间九点半，NBA官方发出声明，宣布2019-20赛季余下所有比赛暂停，联盟进入停摆。
Soon after, at 9: 30 Beijing time, NBA officials issued a statement suspending all games for the rest of the 2019-20 season, bringing the league to a standstill.
与此同时，NBA官方开始对其他球队进行排查——过去两周，爵士曾与凯尔特人、奇才、骑士、活塞、尼克斯和猛龙等队伍进行交锋。
In the meantime, NBA officials have begun a sweep of other teams - the Jazz have been battling Celtics, Wizards, Knights, Pistons, Kniks and Raptors over the past two weeks.
这些球队目前都在联盟的排查之列。
These teams are currently on the league's roster.
此前，联盟曾连续多次下发疫情备忘录，建议球员减少同球迷的互动，并要求各支球队做好防控工作。
The league has issued successive memorandums advising players to reduce their interaction with fans and to ask them to take control of the situation.
疫情升级后，联盟再次下发备忘录，通知球队做好在空场的情况下进行比赛的准备。
After the outbreak escalated, the league again issued a memorandum informing the team to be ready to play in the absence of the game.
但这一决定遭到俱乐部高层和部分球员的反对。
But the decision has met with opposition from senior club officials and some players.
直至这两天，随着疫情不断升级，球员也表示了对联盟理解。
Until the last two days, as the epidemic escalated, the players also expressed their understanding of the league.
詹姆斯等球星再次谈及空场问题，表示此前并不了解空场和新冠疫情相关，称愿意听从联盟的决定。
Stars such as James spoke again about the gap, saying they had no knowledge of a link between the gap and the new crown and were willing to listen to the league's decision.
但并非所有球员都有这样的认知——就在3月11日的记者招待会上，此次NBA确诊的首位球员，戈贝尔就故意用手触碰了自己面前的每一个麦克风和录音设备。
But not all players know that - at a press conference on March 11, the first player in the NBA to be diagnosed, Goebbels deliberately touched every microphone and recording device in front of him.
此前3月10日，北美四大体育联盟联合发布通知，正式对球队更衣室进行人员进出限制，媒体记者禁止进入更衣室进行采访。
Earlier on March 10, four major North American sports leagues issued a joint announcement, the team dressing room access restrictions, media reporters were banned from the dressing room for interviews.
根据NBA对各队的通知，球员将在更衣室外的混采区接受采访，并和媒体之间保留1.8米到2.5米的安全距离。
According to the NBA notification to the teams, the players will be interviewed in the mixed area outside the locker room and maintain a safe distance of 1.8 metres to 2.5 metres from the media.
同时，在疫情不断升级的情况下，各队的门票价格出现了不同程度的下滑，部分场次的门票价格在二手网站上仅为7美元。
Meanwhile, in the face of escalating epidemics, ticket prices have fallen to varying degrees, with some tickets priced at just $7 on second-hand websites.
在3月12日早些时候，官方宣布勇士队3月13日主场对篮网队的比赛将空场进行。
Earlier on March 12, officials announced that the Warriors' home game against the Nets on March 13 would be open.
勇士高层预估每场损失将为250万美元。
Warrior executives estimated the loss at $2. 5 million each.
而NBA停摆后，各球队的票房总损失将超过5亿美元。
With the NBA suspended, teams will lose more than $500 million at the box office.
据此前数据，作为联盟票房收入最高的队伍之一，勇士队每场的门票收入在250万美元-300万美元间，灰熊和鹈鹕约为100万美元。
That compares with $2.5 million to $3 million per ticket for the Warriors and about $1 million for Grizzlies and Pelicans, one of the highest box office earners in the league.
平均算下来，每场比赛约能够为主队带来约200万美元的门票收入。
On average, each game brings in about $2 million in ticket revenue for the home team.
目前，每支球队大约还剩9场主场比赛，30支球队全部门票收入将超过5亿美元。
There are still about nine home games left for each team, and 30 teams will earn more than $500 million in tickets.
由于通常NBA自4月中旬开启季后赛，如果此次停摆意味着常规赛剩余场次取消、季后赛压缩的话，这笔损失将进一步扩大。
Since NBA playoffs typically start in mid-April, the losses could widen if the stoppage means the rest of the regular season is cancelled and the playoffs are compressed.
不仅如此，NBA联盟的电视转播协议也将遭受打击。
Not only that, but the NBA's television deal will also suffer.
2014年，NBA与ESPN和TNT达成了为期9年总价240亿美元的转播合约（从2016-17赛季开始执行），平均每年26.7亿美元，占NBA年收入的30%。
In 2014, the NBA, together with ESPN and TNT, reached a total of $24 billion over a nine-year period (starting with the 2016-17 season), averaging $2.67 billion a year, or 30% of NBA revenue.
不过，专业版权律师指出，这种情况下都是不可抗力和情势变更，是对抗违约责任的抗辩，大概率NBA是不用承担违约赔偿的责任。
Professional copyright lawyers, however, point out that such situations are force majeure and rebus sic stantibus, defences against liability for breach of contract, and that the high probability NBA is not liable for breach of contract.
对球员而言，即使停摆，他们也可以通过球员工会购置的保险获得30万美元补偿，但其未来收入预期将会受到影响。
For players, even if suspended, they can get $300,000 in compensation through the Player Union's insurance, but their future earnings are expected to be affected.
受莫雷事件影响，2020-21赛季工资帽已经下降至1.15亿美元，相比较预估降低了3000万美元。
The cap has fallen to $115 million for the 2020-21 season, down an estimated $30 million from the Murray incident.
NBA停摆后，下赛季工资帽将进一步下降。
Wages will fall further next season after the NBA is suspended.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
NBA宣布停摆损失将超十亿美元。
The NBA has announced losses of more than $1 billion.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "NBA宣布停摆损失将超十亿美元";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "3月12日，NBA官方确认2019-20赛季暂停，票房损失将至少5亿美元。
var msg _ desc = & quot; on March 12, NBA officials confirmed it was suspended for 2019-20, with box-office losses of at least $500 million.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
