汤姆·汉克斯夫妇成为第一批确诊新冠肺炎的好莱坞明星。
Tom and Mrs. Hanks became the first Hollywood stars to be diagnosed with pneumonia.
刘燕秋。
Liu Yanqiu.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国记者：刘燕秋“ 汤姆·汉克斯表示会进行观察隔离，并及时更新情况。
Source: China Visual Correspondent: Liu Yanqiu "Tom Hanks said he would keep an eye on the quarantine and update the situation.
”3月11日晚，世界卫生组织表示，新冠肺炎疫情“已具有全球大流行特征”。
On the night of March 11, the World Health Organization said the outbreak of pneumonia was "a global pandemic."
3月12日早晨，汤姆·汉克斯夫妇成为第一批确诊新冠肺炎的好莱坞明星。
On the morning of March 12, Tom and Hanks became the first Hollywood stars to be diagnosed with pneumonia.
今日，美国影星汤姆·汉克斯与妻子发声明称，两人新冠肺炎检测呈阳性。
US movie star Tom Hanks and his wife announced today that they had tested positive for the new crown pneumonia.
汤姆·汉克斯在Twitter上表示，他们在澳洲拍摄新片时确诊感染新冠肺炎。
Tom Hanks said on Twitter that they had been diagnosed with New Crown Pneumonia with a new clip from Australia.
“我们感到有点累，就像我们得了感冒和一些身体疼痛。
"We felt a little tired, as if we had a cold and some physical pain.
丽塔有些反反复复的寒意，也有些轻微发烧。
Rita had some back and forth chills and a slight fever.
”汤姆·汉克斯表示会进行观察隔离，并及时更新情况，也希望大家照顾好自己。
"Tom Hanks said he would keep an eye on the quarantine and update the situation, hoping everyone would take care of themselves.
图片来源：汤姆·汉克斯Twitter疫情席卷全球，好莱坞的影视产业也受到了影响。
Source: Tom Hanks Twitter epidemic engulfing the world, Hollywood film and television industry has also been affected.
已经有部分剧组暂停拍摄。
Some of the crew have suspended filming.
据Deadline3月10日报道，正在捷克拍摄的漫威剧集《猎鹰与冬兵》，因新冠疫情停止拍摄。
"Falcon and Winter Soldier," a comic book currently being shot in the Czech Republic, stopped filming because of the new crown.
该剧原本预计在捷克首都布拉格拍摄一周，但由于新冠疫情，捷克政府取消了电影放映、中小学校上课、体育比赛和文化活动等，该剧的拍摄也被迪士尼叫停。
The show was expected to be filmed a week in Prague, but the Czech government canceled screenings, classes at primary and secondary schools, sporting events and cultural events because of the new crown, and Disney stopped shooting the show.
《猎鹰与冬兵》布拉格剧组已经被召回该剧的主要拍摄地美国亚特兰大，deadline认为再回布拉格拍摄的几率不大。
"Falcon and the Winter Soldier" Prague crew has been recalled to the main studio of the show in Atlanta, the United States, deadline said the chances of a return to Prague are slim.
这部剧原本计划将于今年8月登陆迪士尼流媒体Disney+。
The show was scheduled to hit Disney Media Disney + in August.
一系列影视活动也不得不推迟。
A series of film and television activities had to be postponed.
3月8日，美国电影学会(AFI)首席执行官兼总裁Bob Gazzale宣布，受疫情影响，原定于4月25日举行的AFI第48届终身成就奖颁奖晚宴将推迟至今年初夏，具体时间尚待官宣。
On March 8, Bob Gazzale, chief executive and president of the American Film Institute (AFI), announced that the forty-eighth AFI Lifetime Achievement Award Dinner, originally scheduled for April 25, would be postponed until early summer this year at a time yet to be announced.
西南偏南电影节受疫情影响直接宣布取消。
Southwest Film Festival by the impact of the epidemic directly announced cancellation.
3月6日，美国西南偏南电影节（SXSW）通过其官方推特宣布，因美国新冠肺炎疫情的影响，2020年的西南偏南电影节正式取消。
On March 6, the South-West Film Festival (SXSW) announced on its official Twitter that the 2020 South-West Film Festival had been officially cancelled because of the outbreak of pneumonia in the United States.
此前，苹果、亚马逊、Netfilx等多家多家参展商都宣布取消今年在西南偏南电影节的展映计划。
Earlier, Apple, Amazon, Netfilx and other exhibitors have announced the cancellation of this year's South-by-Southwest Film Festival exhibition plans.
西南偏南电影节所在地得克萨斯州，已有17例确诊病例。
Texas, home to the Southwest Film Festival, has 17 confirmed cases.
但疫情之下仍然有片方和机构在坚持。
But there are still pockets and institutions that persist in the face of the epidemic.
面对新型冠状病毒的暴发，法国宣布禁止5000人及以上的大型公共集会，并将禁令延长至5月底。
Faced with an outbreak of a new coronavirus, France announced a ban on large public gatherings of 5,000 people and more, extending the ban until the end of May.
然而，即将于5月12日开幕的戛纳电影节却表示会如期举行。
However, the Cannes Film Festival, which opens on May 12, says it will do so.
据Variety3月10日报道，戛纳电影节在10天前曾拒绝保险公司Circle Group提议的购买流行病回购期权的机会，如果未来因为新冠疫情戛纳电影节被政府法令强制取消，就不在承保范围之内。
The Cannes Film Festival rejected the offer of the insurance company Circle Group to buy an epidemic of repo options 10 days ago, excluding it from future coverage if the Cannes Film Festival is cancelled by government decree.
《花木兰》剧组在美国的首映式上 图片来源：视觉中国由刘亦菲主演的迪士尼真人电影《花木兰》昨天在美国洛杉矶的杜比剧院举行了首映式。
2007-9-25 21: 48 VisionChina's reality Disney movie Mulan, starring Liu Yifi, premiered at the Dubie Theatre in Los Angeles yesterday.
片中主演纷纷亮相，包括刘亦菲、甄子丹、李连杰、安佑森等都现身了红毯仪式。
The film stars in succession, including Liu Yifei, Zhen Zidan, Li Lianjie, An Yousheng and other red carpet ceremony.
虽然美国疫情尚未得到控制，迪士尼依然坚持《花木兰》3月27日在北美公映。
Disneyland insisted on the release of Mulan in North America on March 27, although the U. S. epidemic is not under control.
汤姆·汉克斯夫妇的确诊或许会令全球影视从业者重视这一问题。
The diagnosis of Tom and Hanks may bring the issue to the attention of film and television practitioners around the world.
毕竟，活着才是最重要的。
After all, it is living that counts.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
汤姆·汉克斯夫妇成为第一批确诊新冠肺炎的好莱坞明星。
Tom and Mrs. Hanks became the first Hollywood stars to be diagnosed with pneumonia.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "汤姆·汉克斯夫妇成为第一批确诊新冠肺炎的好莱坞明星";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Tom and Mrs. Hanks were at least some of the first Hollywood stars to have been diagnosed with pneumonia.
var msg_desc = "汤姆·汉克斯表示会进行观察隔离，并及时更新情况。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Tom Hanks says it will observe quarantine and keep it up to date.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
