美国对欧洲实施旅行禁令，特朗普称最新传染源“来自欧洲”。
The US imposed a travel ban on Europe, with Trump calling the latest source of infection "from Europe."
界面天下。
Interface world.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
“ 目前美国已确诊超1200例新冠肺炎。
"More than 1,200 new cases of pneumonia have been confirmed in the United States.
特朗普讲话后不久，NBA宣布暂时停摆。
Shortly after Trump spoke, the NBA suspended the game.
”当地时间周三（3月11日）晚间，特朗普宣布，从本周五（3月13日）午夜开始，所有从欧洲出发来到美国的旅行将暂停30天，此举是“强有力但必要的”行动，目的是为了防止新型冠状病毒进入美国。
Late Wednesday, March 11, Trump announced a 30-day moratorium on all travel from Europe to the United States, beginning at midnight Friday (March 13), in a "powerful but necessary" move to prevent the entry of the new coronavirus into the US.
这一旅行禁令中不包括英国，接受过检测的美国人也将获得豁免。
Britain is not included in the travel ban and Americans who have been tested will be exempted.
特朗普在白宫椭圆形办公室向全国发表讲话宣布了这一决定，指责欧盟在应对“外国病毒”方面行动不够迅速。
Trump made the announcement in a speech to the nation from the Oval Office, accusing the EU of not acting quickly enough to deal with "foreign viruses."
“欧盟没有采取同样的预防措施，限制来自中国和其他（疫情）热点地区的旅行，”特朗普说。
"The EU has not taken the same precautions to limit travel from China and other hotspots," Trump said.
“因此，美国大量新集群（病毒感染）都是由欧洲旅行者传播。
"As a result, a large number of new clusters (viral infections) in the United States are spread by European travellers.
”特朗普强调，旅行禁令也将“适用于”从欧洲进入美国的“大量贸易和货物”。
Trump has stressed that the travel ban would also "apply" to "large quantities of trade and goods" entering the US from Europe.
截至发稿，欧盟尚未对特朗普的决定作出回应。
As of the writing, the EU has yet to respond to Trump's decision.
值得一提的是，特朗普在讲话中并没有解释为什么英国可以被排除在外。
It is worth noting that Trump did not explain in his speech why the UK could be excluded.
刚刚脱离欧盟的英国目前确诊460例，包括英国卫生部门高官纳丁·多里斯。
Britain, which has just left the European Union, has now confirmed 460 cases, including Nadine Doris, a senior UK health official.
截至北京时间3月12日上午，欧洲已确诊超2.2万例，疫情最严重的国家为意大利（1.2万例），法国和西班牙确诊超2000例，德国确诊超1500例。
By the morning of March 12, Beijing time, more than 22,000 cases had been confirmed in Europe, 12,000 in Italy, 2,000 in France and Spain and more than 1,500 in Germany.
到目前为止，美国已确诊超1200例新冠肺炎。
So far, more than 1,200 cases of pneumonia have been diagnosed in the United States.
在特朗普讲话后不久，NBA宣布在当晚比赛结束后暂时停摆。
Shortly after Trump's speech, the NBA announced that it would suspend play that evening.
此前犹他爵士队球员戈贝尔初步检测新冠病毒阳性。
Utah Jazz player Goebbels initially tested positive for the new crown virus.
美国演星汤姆·汉克斯及妻子也宣布在澳大利亚拍戏过程中被发现感染新冠病毒。
American actor Tom Hanks and his wife also announced that they were caught with the new crown virus while filming in Australia.
特朗普说，医保公司已同意扩大保险范围，纳入新冠病毒治疗，并免除自付的固定分摊费用（copay）。
Trump says health-care companies have agreed to expand coverage to include new crown-virus treatments and waive out-of-pocket fixed-contribution payments.
他还将很快宣布紧急措施，为生病或需要隔离的劳工提供经济救济，并指示财政部为受到负面影响的个人和企业免息推迟缴税。
He will also soon announce emergency measures to provide economic relief to workers who are ill or in need of segregation and instruct the Ministry of Finance to defer interest-free tax payments to adversely affected individuals and businesses.
在特朗普讲话结束后，美股三大股指期货均大跌超4%，欧洲斯托克50指数期货跌8%，英国富时100指数期货跌5.8%。
After Trump's speech, US stock-index futures plunged more than 4%, European stock-50 futures fell 8%, and FTSE 100 futures fell 5.8%.
当地时间3月11日晚间，世卫组织总干事谭德塞在日内瓦召开的新闻发布会上宣布，新冠肺炎疫情已经构成全球性大流行（pandemic）。
At a press conference in Geneva on the night of March 11, WHO Director-General Theresa Tupper announced that the outbreak of pneumonia had become a global pandemic.
截至发布会召开时，按世卫组织收到的各国通报，全球已确诊11.8万例新冠肺炎，波及110多个国家，导致近4300人失去生命。
By the time of the launch, WHO had received notifications of 118,000 new cases of pneumonia worldwide, affecting more than 110 countries and killing nearly 4,300 people.
长按识别二维码获取更多文章。
Press identify two-dimensional code to get more articles.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
美国对欧洲实施旅行禁令，特朗普称最新传染源“来自欧洲”。
The US imposed a travel ban on Europe, with Trump calling the latest source of infection "from Europe."
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "美国对欧洲实施旅行禁令，特朗普称最新传染源“来自欧洲”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; US travel ban on Europe; Trump says its latest source of infection was "European";;
var msg_desc = "目前美国已确诊超1200例新冠肺炎。
var msg _ desc = & quot; at present, more than 1,200 cases of new crown pneumonia have been diagnosed in the United States.
特朗普讲话后不久，NBA宣布暂时停摆。
Shortly after Trump spoke, the NBA suspended the game.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
