特稿丨意大利失守，“这个病毒太疯狂”。
Feature articles are lost to Italy. "This virus is too crazy."
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻记者 刘栋“这个病毒太疯狂，传播太快了，你必须要小心。
Liu Dong, a Peng Pai journalist: "This virus is too crazy. It's spreading too fast. You have to be careful.
”年过八旬的意大利人玛利亚反复说道。
"repeated Maria, an Italian over eighty.
一个月前，她怎么也不会想到新冠病毒会如此快地从家乡一路“突袭”到欧洲的心脏布鲁塞尔。
A month ago, she could not have imagined that the new crown virus would "pounce" so quickly from home to Brussels in the heart of Europe.
1月24日，法国发现了欧洲第一例确诊病例后，直到2月中旬很长的一段时间内，欧洲的疫情一直波澜不惊。
The first confirmed case in Europe was detected in France on 24 January, and for a long time, until mid-February, the epidemic in Europe was uneventful.
新冠病毒就像一个狡猾的敌人，悄悄地潜伏在欧洲各地，等候着最佳的时机。
Like a cunning enemy, the New Crown Virus lurks around Europe, waiting for the best time.
如今，“毒蛇”已然出洞。
Today, the viper is out of the hole.
新冠病毒在欧洲的传播突然加快，令所有人措手不及。
The spread of the new cap virus in Europe has suddenly speeded up and taken everyone by surprise.
转折点出现在2月21日的意大利。
The turning point occurred in Italy on February 21.
随着首名意大利公民确诊，欧洲第四大经济体的疫情陡然升温。
With the first Italian citizen diagnosed, the epidemic in Europe's fourth-largest economy has soared.
疫情从经济最发达的意大利北方地区蔓延开来，不到一周就已遍布全国。
The epidemic spread from northern Italy, the most economically developed region, to the entire country in less than a week.
3月10日，在病毒面前“节节败退”的意大利宣布全国“封城”。
On March 10, Italy, which had been "losing" to the virus, declared a national "blockade."
新冠病毒不会仅仅停留在意大利。
The new crown virus will not just stop in Italy.
短短两周内，借助意大利北部作为欧洲经济、文化、交通枢纽的特点，以及欧盟内部无国界自由流动的便利，病毒随着往来人流长驱直入到欧洲各个国家。
In just two weeks, the virus has spread to European countries, owing to northern Italy's economic, cultural, and transportation hub, and to the ease of free movement within the EU.
临近的南欧和西欧国家首先“中招”；稍远一点的北欧和英国也很快被殃及，即便是在相对较远的中东欧，最终也未能幸免。
Neighbouring southern and western European countries were the first to "hit the jackpot"; slightly more distant northern Europe and the United Kingdom were soon hit, even in relatively remote Central and Eastern Europe.
截至3月11日，整个欧洲的累计确诊病例数已突破2万，累计死亡人数超过950，成为中国以外疫情最严重地区。
As of March 11, the cumulative number of confirmed cases across Europe had exceeded 20,000, with a cumulative death toll of more than 950, making it the worst affected region outside China.
不仅如此，欧洲境内几乎所有国家和地区均已报告发现新冠肺炎确诊病例。
Moreover, almost all countries and regions in Europe have reported confirmed cases of new crown pneumonia.
仅仅46天，新冠病毒已闪电般横扫欧洲。
In just 46 days, the new crown virus has flashed across Europe.
3月11日，世界卫生组织总干事谭德赛说，新冠肺炎疫情已构成“全球大流行”（Pandemic）。
On March 11, World Health Organization Director General Lindsay Tan said the outbreak of pneumonia has become a "global pandemic."
欧洲疫情地图。
Epidemic Map of Europe.
数据截至北京时间3月11日19时。
Data as of 19: 00 March 11, Beijing time.
制图 澎湃新闻 龚唯拥有全世界最先进的公共卫生防疫体系，预警防控措施启动也不算晚，新冠病毒为何仍在短时间内在欧洲如此快速地扩散？面对病毒压境，欧洲各国又将如何应对？接下去，是否会有更多欧洲国家如意大利一般“失守”？在思考所有这些亟待回答的问题之前还需直面一个问题：意大利的疫情是如何开始失控的？如果不搞清楚这一点，病毒在意大利得逞的“计谋”同样还会在其他国家上演。
With the world's most advanced public health and epidemic prevention system in place, it is not too late to start early-warning prevention and control measures. Why is the new crown virus still spreading so quickly in Europe? How will more European countries, such as Italy, get out of hand?
以3月10日意大利全国封城作为欧洲抗疫战的关键时间点来回溯复盘整个过程，人们会发现疫情在欧洲暴发并非一夜间发生。
Throughout the process of backtracking the entire Italian city on March 10 as a key point in Europe's fight against the epidemic, one will find that the outbreak did not occur overnight in Europe.
意大利“失守”的背后，包含着“超级传播事件”、社区聚集性传染、大规模群体性活动、政府应对不当和民众心理轻视等一系列的复杂故事。
Behind Italy's "failure" are a series of complex stories of "super-contagion events," community-based sexual infections, mass mass events, inappropriate government responses, and people's psychological belittling.
如果将新冠病毒的入侵欧洲看作一场战争，第一阶段“输入性”防守是各国的重点；第二阶段则是防止国内社区传染，而意大利成为了第一个失守的阵地。
If the invasion of the New Crown Virus were to be seen as a war, the first stage of "imported" defense would be the focus of countries; the second phase would prevent domestic community transmission, and Italy would be the first to lose ground.
随着实施举国封城的措施，意大利已退向避免全国大流行暴发的最后防线。
Italy has retreated to the last line of defense against a nationwide pandemic as part of a nation-wide blockade.
在未来一周，全世界所关注的，不仅仅是意大利。
In the coming week, Italy is not the only focus of the world's attention.
更让人揪心的，是目前同样面对巨大压力的德国、法国、西班牙、英国等国疫情。
Even more disturbing is the current situation in Germany, France, Spain, the United Kingdom and other countries facing enormous pressure.
如果德法西英重蹈意大利覆辙，那么整个欧洲或将陷入一场空前的危机中。
If De Fassi follows Italy's lead, Europe as a whole could be plunged into an unprecedented crisis.
意大利北部，被隔离在家中的居民。
Inhabitants of isolated homes in northern Italy.
潜伏3月9日，原本是艾瓦（Aivar Paidla）计划已久的中国之行出发的日子。
On March 9, it was the start of Aivar Paidla's long-planned trip to China.
一个月前，艾瓦本想搭乘的芬兰航空已取消了所有飞往中国的航班。
A month ago, Finnish Airlines, which Iwaben wanted to take, cancelled all flights to China.
在等待了一个月后，艾瓦依然没有看到航班恢复的迹象。
After waiting for a month, Ava still did not see any sign of flight recovery.
只是这一次，是因为欧洲的疫情。
Only this time, because of the outbreak in Europe.
这一天，他在位于比利时布鲁塞尔欧盟总部的办公室里刚刚开完会， 打开电脑，一份来自欧盟的“安全提醒”邮件已在收件箱里等候多时。
He opened his computer just after a meeting at his European Union headquarters in Brussels, Belgium, and a security alert from the European Union had been waiting in his inbox for some time.
两个小时前，比利时政府刚刚通报了当天新增的病例。
Two hours earlier, the Belgian government had announced new cases for the day.
在保持了1个多月仅有1例的纪录后，比利时的确诊人数在过去一周内跃升至近300例。
The number of confirmed cases in Belgium jumped to nearly 300 in the past week, after more than a month of record-keeping of only one case.
“现在欧洲的情况的确有些严重。
"There is something serious about Europe right now.
”艾瓦对澎湃新闻说道。
"Ava told the stormy news.
就在这一天，意大利刚刚宣布了对北方地区封城的举措。
It was on this day that Italy had just announced the closure of its northern regions.
次日，封城措施又进一步扩大到了全国范围。
The following day, the closure was further extended to the entire country.
这在欧盟国家的历史上，可算是空前。
This is unprecedented in the history of the EU.
紧张的情绪很快传到了千里之外的欧洲政治中心布鲁塞尔。
Tensions soon spread to Brussels, the political capital of Europe.
3月9日，欧洲议会原定在法国斯特拉斯堡召开的月度全会临时取消，改在布鲁塞尔进行。
On 9 March, the European Parliament's scheduled monthly plenary meeting in Strasbourg, France, was temporarily cancelled and held in Brussels.
多名意大利的党团议员缺席。
Several members of the Italian caucus were absent.
在艾瓦所在的部门，所有社会文化类活动都已暂停。
In Awa's sector, all socio-cultural activities have been suspended.
近期来自意大利或其他疫区的人员需要主动自我隔离，欧盟还鼓励有条件的员工尽量在家办公。
Persons from Italy or other affected areas need to be actively segregated in the near future, and the EU encourages those who are able to do so to work from home as much as possible.
然而在布鲁塞尔的街头，仍然没有什么人戴口罩。
Still, few people wear masks on the streets of Brussels.
艾瓦开玩笑解释称，这是因为在2016年的恐怖袭击后，比利时通过了法律，禁止任何人在公共场所蒙面。
He jokingly explained that this was because, following the 2016 terrorist attacks, Belgium had passed a law prohibiting anyone from covering their faces in public places.
“当然，在药妆店里你也根本买不到口罩。
"Of course, you can't buy a mask in a makeup shop.
所有商店几个星期前就一直挂着‘口罩等防护用品缺货’的牌子。
All the stores had been carrying 'masks and other protective gear out of stock' signs for weeks.
”一个多月前，当新冠病毒最初抵达欧洲的时候，大多数欧洲人觉得这只是发生在遥远亚洲的一场流行病。
When the virus first arrived in Europe more than a month ago, most Europeans thought it was just an epidemic in faraway Asia.
没有多少欧洲人会想到在新闻里看到的事情，很快会发生在自己的身上。
Not many Europeans think that what they see in the news will soon happen to them.
1月21日，武汉封城前两天，英国流行病学专家、牛津大学终身教授陈铮鸣回到上海的老家过春节。
Two days before the city was closed on January 21, Chen Shunming, a lifelong professor at Oxford University and a British epidemiologist, returned to his hometown of Shanghai for the Spring Festival.
在中国的两周时间里，国内疫情正是最严重的时期。
In China's two weeks, the domestic epidemic is at its worst.
尽管英国1月底就确诊了第一例来自中国的输入性病例，当他2月初回到英国时，却发现身边的人几乎无人在意。
Although the UK confirmed the first imported case from China in late January, when he returned to the UK in early February, he found few people around him.
1月24日，武汉封城第二天。
Wuhan on January 24, the second day of the city.
法国报告了欧洲首例输入性病例，波尔多一名刚刚从武汉返回的48岁华裔法国人被确诊。
France reported the first imported case in Europe, and a 48-year-old Frenchman of Chinese origin who had just returned from Wuhan was diagnosed in Bordeaux.
当天还有两名从中国回来的华人同时被确诊。
Two Chinese returning from China were also diagnosed on the same day.
这是官方记录里可查到的欧洲最早的新冠肺炎确诊病例。
It was the first confirmed case of crowbar pneumonia in Europe on official record.
三天后，德国巴伐利亚州也报告了该国首例输入性病例。
Three days later, the German state of Bavaria also reported its first imported case.
在之后的一段时间内，德国的确诊病例也一直保持着“不温不火”的缓慢增长，几乎所有病例都和巴伐利亚州的这家企业有关。
The number of confirmed cases in Germany has also been growing at a tepid pace for some time, almost all linked to the business in Bavaria.
直到2月26日，法国和德国的累计病例仅为区区12例和18例。
As of February 26, the cumulative number of cases in France and Germany was only 12 and 18.
在长达一个月的时间里，新冠病毒似乎在欧洲“隐藏”了起来。
For as long as a month, the new crown virus appears to have been "hidden" in Europe.
1月24日到2月22日期间，整个欧洲报告的病例不到100例。
Between 24 January and 22 February, fewer than 100 cases were reported across Europe.
就在大多数人认为，这场疫情或将逐渐过去之时，新冠病毒却已选择了大多数人不会想到的意大利作为“强势归来”的暴发点。
At a time when most believe the epidemic may be winding down, the new crown virus has chosen Italy, which most would not expect, as a flashpoint for a "strong return."
在法国、德国之后，意大利在1月31日就监测到了最早的两例输入性新冠肺炎病例。
After France and Germany, Italy detected the first two cases of imported pneumonia on January 31.
之后，意大利也是第一个宣布进入紧急状态的国家。
Italy was also the first country to declare a state of emergency.
只是之后的疫情发展着实让意大利“起了个大早，赶了个晚集”。
It was only the subsequent outbreak that made Italy "get up early and catch a late-night show."
2月21日，持续了近一个月的“平静”被一名意大利男子的确诊打破。
On February 21, the "calm" that lasted for nearly a month was broken by the diagnosis of an Italian man.
这名病例后来被意大利卫生部门定义为引发了北部地区大规模感染事件的“1号病人”。
The case was later identified by Italian health authorities as "patient number one" who triggered a mass infection in the northern region.
据媒体梳理，这位名叫马提亚（Mattia）的38岁意大利男子没有中国旅行史和清晰的高危人群接触史。
According to media reports, Mattia, a 38-year-old Italian man, has no Chinese travel history and no clear history of contact with high-risk groups.
他于2月14日出现了感冒症状，向家庭医生报告但未引起重视；2月18日就医时被认为有轻微的肺炎，但由于严重程度尚不足以住院便让他回家休息。
He developed symptoms of a cold on 14 February, which was reported to the family doctor but was not taken seriously; on 18 February, he was considered to have mild pneumonia at the time of his medical treatment, but was not of sufficient gravity to allow him to return home for rest.
2月19日，他再度回到医院时症状已经加剧。
By the time he returned to the hospital on 19 February, his symptoms had worsened.
当时医护人员仍然按照常规的肺炎流程进行检查，直到一名富有经验的麻醉师坚持要求院方为他检测新冠病毒感染，才终于在2月21日确诊。
At the time, paramedics were still routinely checked for pneumonia until an experienced anesthesiologist insisted on testing him for a new crown virus before he was diagnosed on February 21.
与韩国大邱市疫情暴发的早期相类似，上述这名监测网以外的“1号病人”引发的“超级传播事件”是疫情升级的重要原因之一。
Similar to the early days of the Daegu outbreak in South Korea, the "super-epidemic" triggered by "patient No. 1" outside the surveillance network was one of the main reasons for the escalation.
据意大利卫生部门事后不完全统计，这名“1号病人”至少直接传染了十多人，间接导致了近千人的感染。
According to incomplete statistics from the Italian health ministry, the "No.1 patient" infected at least a dozen people directly, indirectly causing nearly a thousand infections.
另一方面，意大利北部最早暴发疫情的米兰、威尼斯是欧洲乃至世界旅游胜地，常年游人如织。
On the other hand, the first outbreak of northern Italy Milan, Venice is Europe and even the world's tourist attractions, perennial visitors.
2月的最后一周，又是全欧洲大多数国家的狂欢节假期，威尼斯著名的嘉年华游行更是吸引了众多游客纷至沓来。
In the last week of February, Carnival in most countries across Europe, Venice's famous carnival parade attracted a large number of tourists.
这一切都给病毒的传播提供了理想的条件。
All of these provide ideal conditions for the spread of the virus.
陈铮鸣认为，要搞清楚为何意大利疫情会发展到如今的失控地步，有必要回溯最初的感染源和传播链。
Chen argues that to understand why the Italian epidemic is now out of control, it is necessary to go back to the original source of infection and the transmission chain.
“从意大利的暴发程度来看，病毒应该很早就在意大利传播开了，而且实际感染人数很可能高于目前公布的数字。
"Judging by the magnitude of the outbreak in Italy, the virus should have spread early in Italy and the actual number of infections is likely to be higher than currently published figures."
新冠病毒有一个非常狡猾之处——无症状者也可以传播，这就使得病毒的传播更加隐蔽。
The new crown virus has a very cunning aspect - asymptomatic people can also spread, making the spread of the virus even more insidious.
”陈铮鸣建议，远在万里之外的另一个国家——新加坡在抗疫战中的一个经验，或许可以给意大利疫情的溯源提供线索。
Mr Chen suggests that Singapore's experience in the battle against the epidemic, a country thousands of miles away, may provide clues as to the origins of the epidemic in Italy.
据新加坡卫生部门3月1日介绍，该国通过科研人员研发的抗体检测方法确认了两起看似无关的聚集性疫情中主要病例之间的流行病学联系。
An antibody test developed by researchers identified the epidemiological link between the two seemingly unrelated cases of concentrated disease, the Health Ministry said Wednesday.
通过这种方法，防疫人员得以将一些看似找不到感染源的确诊案例联系起来，并得以将传播链理清。
In this way, immunization personnel were able to link up certain confirmed cases where no source of infection appeared to be found and were able to clear the transmission chain.
如今回过头来看，陈铮鸣认为意大利“失守”的原因固然很复杂，但是政府的应对力度不够和民众的大意仍是主要原因。
In retrospect, Chen clings to Italy's "failure" to be complex, but the government's inadequate response and the public's carelessness remain the main reasons.
“虽然意大利是最早采取防控措施的欧洲国家之一，但是这些举措可能给他们带来了盲目的安全感，反而大意了。
"Although Italy was one of the first European countries to take preventive and control measures, these measures may have given them a blind sense of security, but they have been negligent.
而且更重要的是，这些防控措施具体落实的怎样才是关键。
And, more importantly, what is at stake is how these controls are implemented.
”意大利总理孔特召开紧急会议暴发2月22日，意大利累计报告病例仅有22例。
Only 22 cases have been reported in Italy since an emergency meeting of Italian Prime Minister Matteo Conte broke out on February 22.
到了3月11日，短短18天，这一数字已“火箭式”蹿升至12462，增加了566倍。
By March 11, in just 18 days, the number had jumped to 12,462, a 566-fold increase.
意大利这个经济脆弱、政府不稳定、老龄化最严重的欧洲国家，眼下正在艰难地面对着新冠病毒发起的全面进攻。
Italy, the European country with the weakest economy, unstable government and ageing population, is now facing a full-scale assault on the new crown virus.
对于瘟疫，意大利其实一点也不陌生。
Italy is no stranger to pestilence.
威尼斯狂欢节的面具最早正是在中世纪黑死病暴发时，被意大利人发明用来防止疫情的传播。
The mask of the Venice Carnival was first invented by the Italians to prevent the spread of the Black Death in the Middle Ages.
然而这一次，狂欢节的面具没有能够阻挡新冠病毒的蔓延。
This time, however, Carnival masks failed to stop the spread of the new crown virus.
意大利也是人类历史上最早采用封城来防止疫情传播的国家之一。
Italy was also one of the first countries in human history to adopt a blockade to prevent the spread of the epidemic.
此次面对传染性强的新冠肺炎疫情，意大利人也成为了欧洲最早宣布部分“封城”和首个全境“封城”的国家。
The Italians were also among the first countries in Europe to declare part of the city closed and the first country to be "closed" to the public in the face of the contagious New Crown Pneumonia.
2月23日，意大利政府宣布对伦巴第和威尼托大区的11个市镇实施封锁，然而死亡人数和病例数仍在继续上升，病毒的传播速度远远超过了政府努力遏制的速度。
On 23 February, the Government of Italy announced a blockade of 11 municipalities in the Lombardy and Veneto regions, yet the number of deaths and cases continued to rise and the spread of the virus far outpaced the Government's efforts to contain it.
“病毒传播太快了！已经遍布了整个意大利。
"The virus is spreading too fast! It has spread all over Italy.
政府应该更早采取行动。
Governments should act earlier.
”意大利人玛利亚（Maria Laura Franciosi）焦虑地对澎湃新闻说，“我的儿子很担心我们，有许多老人在意大利，他们非常的脆弱，我们只希望随着天气升温病毒能够消失。
Maria Laura Franciosi of Italy told the roaring news anxiously, "My son is worried about us, there are a lot of elderly people in Italy, they are very vulnerable and we just want the virus to go away as the weather warms."
”玛利亚美好的想法目前并没有任何科学依据的支持。
There is no scientific basis for Maria's brilliant ideas.
残酷的现实却在每一天提醒着意大利人疫情的凶险。
The harsh reality reminds Italians every day of the perils of the epidemic.
玛利亚的妹妹在重灾区帕多瓦。
Maria's sister is in Padua.
她告诉玛利亚，被封城隔离在家的人们感到非常害怕，“在这里，人们死了却无法举办葬礼。
She told Maria that the people who were isolated in the city were very frightened. "Here, people die and there is no funeral.
医院的医务人员大量被感染，疲累不堪。
Medical staff at the hospital were heavily infected and exhausted.
”她说道。
'she said.
3月9日，意大利总理孔特宣布，为防止新冠肺炎疫情进一步扩散，意大利将从10日起在全国范围内实行封城禁令，意大利将禁止所有公共集会，包括足球比赛在内的所有体育赛事都将被暂停。
Italy will ban all public meetings and all sporting events, including football matches, from 10 days to a nationwide ban to prevent the spread of the new crown pneumonia, Italian Prime Minister Igor Conte announced on March 9.
“我们所有人都必须为了意大利的利益而放弃一些东西。
"We must all give up something for the good of Italy.
”孔特在讲话中指出，“我们现在必须做此决定，只有我们大家共同努力，适应这些更严格的措施，我们才能最终做到。
"We have to make this decision now," he said in his speech. "Only if we all work together to adapt to these more stringent measures can we finally achieve it.
”孔特早些时候接受意大利《共和国报》采访时称自己一直在思考二战时期英国首相丘吉尔演讲中的话：“这是我们的至暗时刻，我们会做到的。
In an earlier interview with the Italian newspaper La Repubblica, Conte said he had been thinking about what British Prime Minister Winston Churchill said in his World War II speech: "This is our darkest hour, and we will do it.
”意大利权威病毒学家罗伯托·伯里奥尼（Roberto Burioni）在接受《纽约时报》采访时承认，意大利低估了新冠病毒的传染性，政府需要果断采取行动，每个意大利人都需要采取负责任的应对措施。
In an interview with The New York Times, Italy's leading virologist Roberto Burioni acknowledged that Italy underestimated the infectious nature of the new crown virus, that the government needed to act decisively, and that every Italian needed to respond responsibly.
有着6000万人口的意大利正在成为欧洲首个面对如此严峻疫情和严厉措施双重挑战的主要国家。
With a population of 60 million, Italy is emerging as the first major country in Europe to face the twin challenges of such a severe epidemic and draconian measures.
一些医院已不堪重负，医务人员大面积感染，无法为60岁以上的老年人提供医疗服务。
Some hospitals are already overburdened and medical personnel are infected on a large scale and are unable to provide medical care to persons over 60 years of age.
整个社会对于“封城”的措施也极度不适应，由于停止探监，意大利27所监狱甚至发生了暴动。
The community as a whole is also extremely uncomfortable with the "closure" measures, with riots occurring in 27 Italian prisons as visits have stopped.
尽管政府的措施在不断升级，目前疫情仍未能得到有效控制。
Despite the escalating measures of the Government, the epidemic is still not under effective control.
另一方面，对于“封城”决定和实际执行效果的质疑也已在意大利社会出现。
On the other hand, doubts about the "closure" decision and its actual implementation have emerged in Italian society.
中国国际问题研究院欧洲研究所所长崔洪建认为，意大利的应对策略本身有值得商榷之处。
Cui Hongjian, director of the European Institute of the China Institute of International Studies, said Italy's response strategy was itself questionable.
“他采取的方式既不是完全中国式的，也和欧洲其他国家不同，而是想混合在一起做，但是没有成功。
"His approach is neither entirely Chinese nor the same as the rest of Europe, but rather a mix of things to do, but without success.
意大利早期的反应升级很快，然而不完全的封城反而放大了恐慌情绪，也暴露了医疗资源短缺的问题。
Italy's early reaction escalated rapidly, but the incomplete closure magnified fears and exposed a shortage of medical resources.
”崔洪建进一步指出，当疫情升级时，意大利人祭出了老祖宗发明的封城措施，但是今天的实际情况不一样，封城并不一定适合像意大利这样体制的欧洲国家，意大利的中央政府并没有足够的执行力和权威。
Mr Cui further points out that when the epidemic escalated, the Italians sacrificed the blockade invented by their forefathers, but that unlike today, which is not always appropriate for a European country with an Italian system, Italy's central government does not have sufficient executive power and authority.
在这样的情况下，采取老措施只会导致民众对疫情认识不足，反弹很大，产生负面的效果。
In such circumstances, the adoption of older measures will only lead to a low level of public awareness of the epidemic and a strong backlash, with negative effects.
就在意大利陷入与疫情的苦战之时，邻近国家的疫情也在不断升级。
Even as Italy struggles with the epidemic, outbreaks are escalating in neighbouring countries.
德国媒体人艾瑞思（ Iris Völlnagel）告诉澎湃新闻，随着意大利的疫情暴发，在德国多地均发现了多起与之有关的病例。
Iris Völlnagel, a German media personality, told the roaring news that with the outbreak in Italy, several cases had been found in various parts of Germany.
同时，在更多区域发现了与意大利疫情无关的确诊病例，其中一些病例也和当地狂欢节的群体性聚集事件相关。
At the same time, confirmed cases not related to the Italian epidemic have been found in more regions, some of which are also linked to mass gatherings at the local carnival.
这些现象不只发生在德国。
These phenomena are not confined to Germany.
在短短两周时间内，德国、法国、西班牙等国病例均已破千；过百的则有瑞士、英国、荷兰、瑞典、比利时、挪威、奥地利、丹麦等国。
In just two weeks, cases have been broken in Germany, France, Spain, and more than 100 in Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Sweden, Belgium, Norway, Austria, and Denmark.
纵观整个欧洲，新冠病毒几乎正在所有国家快速传播，许多国家已经出现了没有明确传染源的社区传播现象。
Across Europe, the new crown virus is spreading rapidly in almost all countries, and in many countries there is no clear source of transmission from the community.
崔洪建认为，新冠疫情在欧洲的传播如此迅猛，不仅和欧洲国家在地理上的紧密相连有关，也凸显出欧洲全境的防疫其实到处都是“口子”。
Cui Hong Jian believes the rapid spread of the new crown in Europe is related not only to the geographical proximity of European countries, but also to the fact that epidemic prevention is widespread throughout Europe.
“虽然表面上是意大利失守，但是很难说问题全都出在意大利。
"It is difficult to say that all the problems are in Italy, although it is ostensibly Italy that is failing."
如果说2015年的欧洲难民危机暴露出来欧洲对难民不设防的问题，那么现在看来欧洲对病毒也是不设防的。
If the European refugee crisis of 2015 exposed Europe's vulnerability to refugees, it would seem that Europe is now defenceless against the virus.
”意大利米兰火车站乘客在候车扩散比利时自由大学的教师张蕾注意到，大概从一个多星期前，许多比利时人从狂欢节假期回来后，当地的病例随即开始增加。
Zhang Lei, a teacher at the Université Libre in Belgium, noticed that the number of cases had risen since many Belgians returned from Carnival more than a week ago.
上周开始，几乎每天数字都要翻一番。
Numbers have doubled almost every day since last week.
“现在比利时口罩、酒精什么的都买不到了。
"I can't buy a Belgian mask or alcohol or anything.
每天早上我在朋友圈播报当天的新增病例数字，我的华人朋友们就会问我，张蕾你害怕吗？说实话，我有一点害怕，我担心如果像武汉规模的疫情发生在比利时，政府有没有能力保护我们。
Every morning when I broadcast the number of new cases in my circle of friends, my Chinese friends ask me, Are you afraid, Zhang Lei? To be honest, I am a little afraid, and I am afraid that if an epidemic on the scale of Wuhan occurs in Belgium, the government will be able to protect us.
”在比利时已生活了数十年的张蕾认为比利时政府对于疫情还是重视的，但是程度和措施不同，这背后有着许多的原因。
Zhang Lei, who has lived in Belgium for decades, thinks the Belgian government takes the epidemic seriously, but with varying degrees and measures, for a number of reasons.
“他们不可能做到中国采取的措施，政府没有能力也认为没有必要；布鲁塞尔的核酸检测设备只有一台，今天才运到第二台；对于检测政府也有严格的条件，你必须要有症状，其次要有接触史，才能给家庭医生打电话，医院会派人上门来检查。
"They can't do what China is doing, the government can't afford and doesn't think it's necessary; there's only one piece of nucleic acid testing equipment in Brussels and it only arrives at the second station today; there are strict conditions for testing the government.
”她介绍道。
'she said.
比利时政府认为，目前该国国内还没有出现大规模人传人，而是用一个特定的词——“有限的小范围分布式团体性感染”来描述疫情。
The Belgian government believes there is no large-scale human-to-human transmission, but rather a specific term - "limited, small, distributed group infections."
在德国莱比锡生活的艾瑞思对澎湃新闻表示，眼下德国的疫情虽然仍主要分布在特定地区，但是情况正在发生着变化。
Iris, who lives in Leipzig, Germany, told the roaring news that the situation in Germany is changing, although it is still mainly in specific regions.
“你可以看到人们的生活正在受到影响和发生改变。
"You can see that people's lives are being affected and changing.
我有朋友害怕乘坐公共交通，觉得危险。
I have friends who are afraid of taking public transportation and feel dangerous.
人们害怕是因为病例数字的变化，人们担心意大利的情况会在德国发生。
People are afraid because of the change in the number of cases, and there are fears that what will happen in Italy will happen in Germany.
”她说道。
'she said.
艾瑞思介绍，政府开始大力鼓励人们勤洗手，不建议见面握手的礼节。
'People are being encouraged to wash their hands frequently, 'Mr. Iris said.' We don't recommend handshaking etiquette.
“人们开始担忧，上周开始有人去商店买东西囤货；许多大型活动取消了，比如下周在莱比锡的书展。
"People are starting to worry about people going to stores last week to stock up; a lot of big events have been canceled, like the book fair in Leipzig next week.
在会展城市汉诺威，大部分活动从4月推迟到8月。
In the exhibition city of Hanover, most activities were postponed from April to August.
但是足球比赛依然举行，政府的一些举措也让人感到困惑。
But football is still played and some of the government's moves are confusing.
”她说。
'she said.
然而在德国依然没有什么人戴口罩，对此艾瑞思解释称，这部分是出于文化原因，人们不习惯戴口罩，同时政府告知民众，戴口罩并不会保护人们免于被感染。
Still, few people wear masks in Germany, Iris explained, partly because of cultural reasons, because people are not used to wearing masks, and because the government has told people that wearing masks does not protect people from getting infected.
如果疫情升级，德国会像意大利一样采取封城的措施吗？艾瑞思觉得这很难说。
If the outbreak escalates, will Germany follow Italy's lead in sealing the city? Iris finds it hard to say.
“如果封城，影响将会很大，地方政府需要应对处理种种随之而来的问题。
"If the city is closed, the impact will be huge and local governments will have to deal with the attendant problems.
而目前疫情还没有严重到那个程度。
The epidemic has not reached that point.
现在德国讨论的主题不是封城，而是取消1000人以上的活动。
The subject of discussion in Germany now is not the closure of the city, but the abolition of more than 1,000 people.
”尽管政府对疫情的应对不可谓不重视，德国社会对此的看法却日趋分裂。
While the government's response to the epidemic has not been negligible, German society is increasingly divided.
一些人认为对疫情反应过度，另一些人却认为政府做得还不够多。
Some people think the epidemic is overreacting, while others think the government is not doing enough.
“现在回过头来想，德国政府最初的时候可以做更多去防止（疫情蔓延）。
"In retrospect, the German government could have done more to prevent it in the first place.
到现在这个阶段，政府告诉我们这个病毒并不危险，德国能够应对。
At this stage, the government has told us that the virus is not dangerous and that Germany can deal with it.
但是我想如果情况升级，就不知道了。
But I don't know if it's going to escalate.
”艾瑞思说道。
'said Alice.
在布鲁塞尔欧盟总部上班的艾瓦是“乐观派”的代表。
Mr Ava, who works at EU headquarters in Brussels, is a representative of the "optimists."
老家在爱沙尼亚的他告诉澎湃新闻，爱沙尼亚所有公民都已经收到了政府发送的邮件，要求去过疫区和高风险地区的人在家自我隔离两周，但他本人对于疫情并不紧张。
Back in Estonia, he told the roar news that all Estonian citizens had received a government email asking people who had been to affected areas and high-risk areas to isolate themselves at home for two weeks, but he was not personally nervous about the outbreak.
“既然病毒已经来了，关闭学校也无济于事，只会影响正常生活，一切都要重新安排。
"Now that the virus has arrived, closing the school won't help, it will only affect normal life, and everything will have to be rearranged.
爱沙尼亚有一所学校关闭了，但是我不认为父母能让孩子在家里待着不乱跑，很有可能孩子们依然会跑出来。
One school in Estonia is closed, but I don't think parents can keep their children at home, and it's very likely that the children will still come out.
”他说。
'he said.
中、欧政府和民众对新冠病毒的不同认知，也是导致对疫情有不同态度的重要原因。
Different perceptions of the new crown virus by governments and citizens in Europe and China also contributed to the different attitudes towards the outbreak.
张蕾告诉澎湃新闻，不久前她与一些欧洲政治人士聊起疫情。
Zhang told the surging news that she had recently spoken to some European politicians about the outbreak.
当地一个政党的党魁告诉她，他们觉得，疫情并没有那么严重，也没有必要恐慌。
The head of a local political party told her they felt the epidemic was not so serious and there was no need to panic.
布鲁塞尔当地一家报纸的主编表示，虽然他也觉得新冠病毒传播这么快很恐怖，但是这种担忧完全没有体现在生活中，大家一切照旧。
The editor-in-chief of a local newspaper in Brussels said he, too, found the fear of the virus spreading so quickly terrifying, but it simply did not manifest itself in life and business as usual.
崔洪建进一步指出，中、欧之间对此次疫情的认识不同很大程度是由于各自的参照不同。
Cui Hongjian further pointed out that the differences between China and Europe on the understanding of the epidemic is largely due to their respective reference.
“中国的参照是2003年的SARS（非典型肺炎），而欧洲（的参照物）则是流感，所以对此的态度和反应也就很不一样。
"China's reference is SARS in 2003, while Europe's is influenza, so attitudes and reactions are very different.
”“说实话，我对于比利时政府应对大规模疫情不太有信心。
"To be honest, I am not very confident the Belgian government will deal with a large-scale outbreak.
如果疫情大规模暴发，政府将很难应对。
If the outbreak is large-scale, it will be difficult for the government to cope.
我最坏的打算，如果欧洲疫情暴发，最安全的地方就是回国。
My worst-case scenario is that the safest place for an outbreak in Europe is to go home.
”张蕾说。
"said Zhang Lei.
意大利一处医疗设施内医护人员在工作大流行？如今，对于大多数欧洲国家来说，疫情的防控重点除了来自亚洲国家的输入，还多了一重来自欧洲内部的防控压力。
For most European countries, the focus of the epidemic today is not only on imports from Asian countries, but also on control pressures from within Europe.
崔洪建认为，如果把欧洲的新冠抗疫战分为三个阶段：第一阶段是防止输入性病例；第二阶段是防止国内社区传播；第三阶段则是避免国内和欧洲大流行。
Mr Choi believes that if Europe's new crown fight is divided into three phases: the first is to prevent imported cases; the second is to prevent transmission by domestic communities; and the third is to avoid a domestic and European pandemic.
“对于欧洲国家来说，防疫的一个重要原则是平衡，既要防控疫情也要保证经济运行，考虑到次生灾害对社会带来的影响。
"For European countries, an important principle of epidemic prevention is balance, both to control the epidemic and to ensure economic operations, taking into account the impact of secondary disasters on society.
意大利最初希望在防控的第二阶段，既能封锁住疫情的发展，又能和外界保持联系。
Italy initially hoped that in the second phase of prevention and control, both to block the spread of the epidemic and to maintain contact with the outside world.
然而事实证明他们没有成功，继而不得不采取最后全面封锁的手段。
However, they proved unsuccessful and then had to resort to a final and total blockade.
”崔洪建分析说。
"said Cui Hongjian.
而眼下的德国和法国都已经进入到了疫情防控的第二阶段，崔洪建认为，两国现阶段的主要的策略都是尽量延缓和控制疫情在社区的传播，避免集中式的暴发。
Now that Germany and France have entered the second phase of epidemic prevention and control, Cui believes that the main strategy in both countries is to minimize and control the spread of the epidemic in the community and avoid a concentrated outbreak.
他继续说道，“由于欧洲国家体制的特点，中央政府实际上夹在了地方政府和欧盟当中。
"Because of the characteristics of European state institutions, the central government is effectively wedded to local governments and the European Union," he continued.
向下，大多数时候他们只能和地方政府协调，提供信息，在具体如何应对上插不上手。
Downward, most of the time, they can only coordinate with local governments to provide information that fails to interject specific responses.
向上，欧盟的性质决定了它往往只能做协调，不可能轻易做出任何决定，而自由流动的原则更是不能碰的禁区。
Up, the EU, by its very nature, tends to be co-ordinated, unable to make any decisions easily, and the principle of free movement is a no-go area.
”“最坏的情况是，如果德国和法国也‘失守’了，由他们主导来推动停止欧盟内的人员自由流动，但是这是很难想象的情况。
"The worst-case scenario would be if Germany and France, too, were to" lose ground "and let them take the lead in pushing for a halt to the free movement of people within the EU, but that is hard to imagine.
”他说道。
'he said.
被称作“德国钟南山”德国顶尖病毒学家克里斯蒂安·德罗斯滕近日在接受德国媒体访谈中也表达了类似的观点：德国不可能完全照搬中国的经验措施，但要持续观察病毒传播的后续发展，并及时采取相应对策。
In a recent interview with German media, Christian De Rosten, a leading German virologist called "Zhong Nan Shan in Germany," expressed a similar view: Germany is unlikely to fully replicate China's experience, but will continue to monitor the subsequent development of virus transmission and respond accordingly.
德国具备应对疫情的有利条件。
Germany is well placed to deal with the epidemic.
应尝试通过有针对性的措施，在成本效益比适宜的情况下进行干预，以延迟病毒大面积传播（尤其是在青壮年群体中的传播）。
Attempts should be made through targeted interventions, where cost-benefit ratios are appropriate, to delay the spread of the virus over large areas (especially among young adults).
法国政府也拒绝采取与意大利类似的全面预防措施。
The French government also refused to take comprehensive precautions similar to those taken in Italy.
法国总统马克龙3月10日在访问了巴黎的紧急呼叫中心后说，“我们仍然处于此次传染病的初级阶段。
"We are still in the early stages of the epidemic," French President Nicolas Sarkozy said after a visit to the Paris emergency call centre on March 10.
我们已有预案，我们已经做好了准备。
We have plans in place, and we are ready.
”眼下，欧洲各国似乎仍没有在如何应对疫情上达成什么共识，而是纷纷各自为政。
For now, Europe still seems to have little consensus on how to respond to the epidemic, leaving it to its own devices.
崔洪建表示，中西方思维方式的差异也决定了对于疫情防控会采取不同的策略。
Cui Hong Jian said that the difference in the way of thinking between the West and China also determines that the prevention and control of the epidemic will adopt different strategies.
“欧洲人往往会先想好最坏的情况，然后反推现在该做什么。
"Europeans tend to think about the worst first and then extrapolate what to do now.
疫情的发展有其自然的规律，欧洲国家往往会考虑到各项社会成本，观察好疫情可能会走向哪种方向，再采取相应的措施。
The epidemic is developing according to its own laws, and European countries tend to look at the social costs, see which direction the epidemic is likely to take, and then take appropriate measures.
”对于未来欧洲疫情的走向，陈铮鸣表示，“我个人还没有这么悲观，德法英应该不会出现意大利目前的情况。
"I am not personally so pessimistic about the future course of the epidemic in Europe," Chen says.
希望他们吸取意大利的教训。
Let them learn the lessons of Italy.
但是未来一两周的情况肯定会恶化。
But the next week or two is bound to get worse.
我比较担忧的是各国目前的防控力度还不够。
I am concerned that the current level of prevention and control is not enough.
希望到4月份复活节的时候，情况能够明朗起来。
Hopefully by Easter April, things will be clear.
”3月11日，世卫组织总干事谭德赛表示，由冠状病毒引发的“大流行”在历史上是首次，但所有国家还有改变这个大流行进程的机会。
"The coronavirus-induced" pandemic "is the first time in history, but all countries have an opportunity to change the course of the pandemic, WHO Director-General Theresa Tanner said on March 11.
如今，欧洲全境内不断蔓延的疫情势头尚没有任何止息的迹象。
Today, there is no sign of a halt to the spreading epidemic across Europe.
接下去，如何来打赢这场对新冠病毒的抗疫战，将是摆在欧洲各国面前的真正考验。
Next, how to win the battle against the new crown virus will be a real test for European countries.
本期编辑 邢潭推荐阅读。
This issue editor Xingtan recommended reading.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
特稿丨意大利失守，“这个病毒太疯狂”。
Feature articles are lost to Italy. "This virus is too crazy."
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "特稿丨意大利失守，“这个病毒太疯狂”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; features lost to Italy, "This virus is too mad" and & quot;;
var msg_desc = "将是摆在欧洲各国面前的真正考验。
var msg _ desc = & quot; will be the real test before European nations.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '硬核奶奶对不起，我们都瞒了您',。
A: I'm sorry, but we all told you & apos; & quot; at your service.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '意大利发生监狱暴动，20人越狱7人死亡',。
A prison riot in Italy has resulted in the death of 7 of its 20 people.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '71岁危重患者想放弃，医生做了个大胆的决定',。
At 71, a critically ill person who wanted to give up, the doctor made a bold decision to service.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
