受训诫的武汉医生：11天后被病人传染住进隔离病房，之前群内言论被断章取义 | 深度对话/* declared */。
The admonished Wuhan doctor: Infected by the patient to the isolation ward 11 days later, the group's previous statement was taken out of context / * declared * /.
受训诫的武汉医生：11天后被病人传染住进隔离病房，之前群内言论被断章取义 | 深度对话<br>。
The admonished Wuhan doctor: Infected by a patient to the isolation ward 11 days later, the group's previous statement was taken out of context; in-depth dialogue; br & gt;;
| title       = 受训诫的武汉医生：11天后被病人传染住进隔离病房，之前群内言论被断章取义   深度对话。
Wuhan doctor: Infected 11 days later by patients admitted to the isolation ward, where previously the group's statements were taken out of context.
受训诫的武汉医生：11天后被病人传染住进隔离病房，之前群内言论被断章取义 | 深度对话。
The admonished Wuhan doctor: Infected by patients to the isolation ward 11 days later, the group was previously cited out of context and in-depth conversation.
北青深一度。
North Qingsheng one degree.
北青深一度                      。
North Qingsheng one degree.
北青深一度。
North Qingsheng one degree.
北京青年报深度报道部官方公众号。
Beijing Youth Daily in-depth coverage of the Department's official public number.
提供更深一度，更快一步的时事新闻资讯，守望变革中国的纵深阅读。
To provide a deeper and faster news of current events, and to keep watch for changes in China's in-depth reading.
。
.
记者/韩谦编辑/杨宝璐 宋建华感染医生仍在重症监护室截止到1月26日，30个省（区、市）报告的确诊病例升至2744例，其中重症病例461例，累计死亡病例80例，累计治愈出院51例，现有疑似病例5794例。
Reporter / Han Qian editor / Yang Polo Song Jianhua Infection Doctor still in intensive care unit as of January 26, 30 provinces (districts, cities) reported the confirmed cases rose to 2,744, of which 461 serious cases, 80 cumulative cases of death, a cumulative total of 51 cases cured, the existing suspected cases 5794.
去年年底，一张聊天记录截图被大量转发：一位医生在大学同学群内称，“华南水果海鲜市场确诊了7例SARS，在我们医院急诊科隔离”。
"Seven cases of SARS were confirmed in the South China fruit and seafood market, isolated in the emergency department of our hospital," a doctor told a group of university students.
消息发布11天后，这位医生也出现了咳嗽、发烧的症状。
Eleven days after the news, the doctor also developed symptoms of cough and fever.
深一度联系到了这位医生，他告诉记者，截图的确存在断章取义的问题，关于确诊为SARS的说法不准确，自己此后在群内强调过，“是冠状病毒，具体还在分型”。
Once contacted the doctor, he told reporters, screenshots do exist out of context, about the diagnosis of SARS is not accurate, he later stressed in the group, "is the coronavirus, the specific type.
在群里发布信息的第二天，他被医院监察科要求写一份对于不实信息外传的反思。
The day after he posted the information in the group, he was asked by the Hospital Supervision Department to write a reflection on the spread of untrue information.
1月3日上午，他又去派出所签了一份《训诫书》。
On the morning of 3 January, he went to the police station and signed a reprimand.
他于1月12日住院，CT结果显示双肺多发感染，磨玻璃样病，14日转至呼吸科隔离病房。
He was hospitalized on January 12, CT findings showed multiple lung infections, grinding glass-like disease, 14 to the respiratory isolation ward.
此后，他又逐渐出现呼吸困难加重的问题，于24日转至重症监护室，至今病情一直未有明显好转。
Since then, he has gradually become more difficult breathing, on 24 to the intensive care unit, has not significantly improved.
他的医生告诉他，这几天病情就该出现拐点，但肺功能恢复时间会比较久。
His doctor told him that there should be an inflection point in the next few days, but lung function would take a long time to recover.
截止到深一度发稿时，该医生尚未离开重症监护室，由于他不方便说话，采访使用文字实录的方式进行。
By the time of the deep draft, the doctor had not left the intensive care unit, and the interview had been recorded in written form because he was unable to speak.
感染医生签署的训诫书“网上流传的截图断章取义”深一度：现在的状态怎么样？受感染医生：体温一直有反复，昨晚（26日）38度现在降到37.3了，现在一直插着呼吸管，进行高流量吸氧治疗，无法下床，大小便都在床上。
Infected Doctor: How are you doing now? Doctor: Your temperature has been on the up and down, 38 degrees last night (26th) has now dropped to 37.3, and now there are breathing tubes, high-volume oxygen therapy, no way to get out of bed, and all of your urine and urine in bed.
基本无法说话交流，只能打字，即使打字交流一段时间后也会头晕。
Can not speak and communicate, can only type, even after a period of typing will be dizzy.
深一度：在去年年底的时候，你是怎么知道的医院急诊科有7例不明原因肺炎病人？受感染医生：同事之间互相交流知道的。
At one degree: How did you know at the end of last year that there were seven cases of unexplained pneumonia in the emergency department of the hospital?
当天晚上也看到了一份武汉市卫健委员会发布的红头文件，紧急通知华南海鲜市场陆续出现不明原因肺炎。
That night also saw a Wuhan Health Commission issued a red document, emergency notification of the South China seafood market has been unknown pneumonia.
深一度：医院是什么时候收治他们的？怎么治疗的？受感染医生：具体我不清楚。
Deep once: When did the hospital treat them? How was it treated? Infected doctor: I don't know exactly.
深一度：当时知道这个事情后是否担心过会有传染性？有没有做防护措施？受感染医生：嗯，担心。
Once upon a time: Did you worry about being contagious when you knew about this? Did you take any precautions? Infected Doctor: Well, worry.
那段时间上下班都开车，不敢挤地铁。
I didn't dare to squeeze the subway while driving to and from work.
但也没做防护措施，大意了，觉得和自己科室没什么关系。
But also did not do protective measures, the general idea, and feel no relationship with their own departments.
当时没想到会这么严重。
I didn't expect it to be so serious.
深一度：你是在哪里发布的消息？受感染医生：12月30日下午5点多在大学同学群发布的消息。
Once upon a time: Where did you post your message? Infected Doctor: It was announced at 5: 00 pm on Dec 30th among university students.
我的同学基本都是一线医生，我当时是想提醒同学注意防范。
My classmates are all first-line doctors, I was trying to remind students to pay attention to prevention.
我也知道这属于公共卫生事件，发布这类消息有风险。
I also know that this is a public health event and that it is risky to release such information.
我在群里反复强调不要外传，但还是被人截图外传了。
I repeatedly stressed in the group do not spread, but was still cut out of the picture.
传播很广，外省很快就有了。
Widespread dissemination, the provinces soon have.
深一度：当时在群里这个说法准确吗？受感染医生：当时在群里一开始说了“确诊7例SARS”，不太准确，后来我又强调是冠状病毒，具体还在分型。
Once upon a time, was it true that he was in the group? Infected Doctor: At the beginning of the group he said "seven cases of SARS diagnosed," which is not accurate, but later I emphasized that it was coronavirus, which is still typing.
那个截图也存在断章取义的问题。
The screenshot was also taken out of context.
我强调了不要外传。
I stressed the importance of not spreading it.
深一度：所以因为截图外传而受到处分了吗？受感染医生：12月31日凌晨1点半接到电话通知，让我去武汉市卫健委。
Deep One: So have you been disciplined for the transmission of the screenshot? Infected Doctor: I got a phone call at 1: 30 a.m. on December 31, asking me to go to Wuhan Health Care Commission.
当时卫健委连夜开会，应该是应对疫情的会议，我们医院院领导、医务室主任都参加了。
At that time, Wei Jiancheng night meeting, should be to deal with the epidemic situation, our hospital leadership, the director of the clinic attended.
我没参加会议，让我在其他房间等着。
I didn't attend the meeting. Let me wait in the other room.
会议结束，院领导询问了我一些消息来源之类的问题。
At the end of the meeting, the head of the college asked me questions about some sources.
凌晨4点多的时候主任开车送我回的家。
The director drove me home at 4 a. m.
12月31日被叫去医院监察科，去了两三次，有时候是监察科同事接待，有时候是纪委书记。
On 31 December, he was called to the Hospital Supervision Unit, where he visited two or three times, sometimes with his colleagues in the Inspection Section and sometimes with the Secretary of the Disciplinary Commission.
反复问我消息来源，以及有没有认识到自己造谣的错误。
Ask me again and again about my sources and if I realize I made a mistake.
后来要求我写了一份不实消息外传的反思与自我批评。
Later I was asked to write an untrue message of introspection and self-criticism.
说要院内处分，具体一直没有出来。
Said the hospital punishment, the specific has not come out.
1月3日上午，我又接到派出所电话，让我签了一份《训诫书》。
On the morning of 3 January, I received a telephone call from the police station asking me to sign a reprimand.
深一度：后来医院有提醒大家不要再往外传播此类消息吗？有说发布信息会有什么处罚吗？受感染医生：有，要求不要在网络上发布相关信息，都是由科室主任口头传达的。
Once upon a time: Did the hospital warn people not to spread the message out again? Did you say there would be any punishment for publishing the message? Infected Doctor: Yes, the request not to post relevant information on the Internet is conveyed orally by the section director.
后来疫情明显扩散，因为我亲自收治了这样的患者，并且她的家属也被感染了，我也被感染了。
Then the epidemic spread dramatically, because I treated the patient myself, and her family was infected, and I was infected.
所在科室曾收治疑似新型肺炎病人深一度：你所在科室什么时候收治不明原因肺炎病人？受感染医生：大概是1月7、8号的时候。
When did your department admit an unexplained pneumonia patient? Infected doctor: About January 7, 8.
她住院的第二天开始发热。
Her second day in hospital began to feverish.
发热后马上做了肺部CT和呼吸道病毒、支原体、衣原体检测。
Immediately after fever, CT and respiratory virus, mycoplasma and chlamydia were tested.
肺部CT检测出来是肺部磨玻璃样病变，符合新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎表现，但是当时不让做核酸检测确诊。
Pulmonary CT was detected to be a glassy lung lesion, in line with the new coronavirus infection pneumonia, but did not allow diagnosis of nucleic acid testing.
深一度：当时医生有要求做核酸检测吗？受感染医生：有，当时的确诊病例都是通过核酸确诊的。
At one degree: Did the doctor ask for a nucleic acid test? Infected Doctor: Yes, the confirmed cases were diagnosed with nucleic acid.
如果不做检测，就无法确诊，那感染人数的数字看起来就不大。
Without testing, no diagnosis can be made, and the number of people infected looks small.
当时专家组的人说他们无法决定做不做检测。
People at the time said they could not decide whether to test or not.
深一度：病人诊断出有问题之后有做什么隔离措施吗？受感染医生：病人在病区单间隔离，我们医生开始戴N95口罩，但是病人在一开始没有发热的时候，我们都没有戴口罩。
At one degree: Is there any isolation after the patient has been diagnosed with a problem? Infected Doctor: The patient is isolated in a single room in the patient's ward and our doctor begins to wear the N95 mask, but we didn't wear one when the patient first had no fever.
深一度：当时知道会有人传人的问题吗？受感染医生：当时我们也不确定，但很快照顾病人的家属在病人发热当晚就发烧了，后来病人和家属在1月10号都住到呼吸科隔离病房去了。
At that time, we were not sure, but the family who were taking care of the patient became feverish on the night of the fever, and then the patient and his family went to the respiratory isolation ward on January 10th.
深一度：你是什么时候感觉身体不适的？受感染医生：1月10号中午我开始咳嗽，当时没太在意，第二天开始发烧，最高38.2度，这才意识到问题大了。
At one degree: When did you feel unwell? Infected Doctor: I started coughing on January 10 at noon, and I didn't pay much attention then.
当天做了CT，显示双肺多发感染，磨玻璃样病变。
CT was done on the same day, showing multiple lung infections, grinding glass-like lesions.
深一度：当天你就住院了吗？受感染医生：没有，当天先是自我隔离，因为家里有孕妇和小孩，我就去外面住的酒店。
Once in a while: Did you go to the hospitalDoctor: No, I first isolated myself that day, because I had pregnant women and children at home, so I went out to the hotel.
12号下午住在我们科室病房，14号转到呼吸科隔离病房。
The afternoon of the 12th is in our ward, and the 14th is transferred to the respiratory isolation ward.
深一度：你有做核酸检测确诊为新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎吗？受感染医生：1月24号才做的核酸检测，结果还没出来，到现在也不能说是确诊。
At one degree: Did you get pneumonia, diagnosed with a new coronavirus infection by a nucleic acid test? Infected Doctor: The nucleic acid test, done on January 24th, has not yet come out, and it cannot be said to be confirmed yet.
也问过医生为什么检测结果还没出来，医生说都没出来，不知道原因。
Also asked the doctor why the test results have not come out, the doctor said did not come out, do not know why.
感染医生的诊断书病情加重转至ICU，父母也被传染深一度：你是什么时候感觉自己病情加重了？受感染医生：我一开始主要就是发热、恶心，后来高烧慢慢退了，觉得有希望了。
When did you begin to feel worse? Infected Doctor: I was primarily feverish and nauseous, and then my fever slowly receded and I felt hopeful.
但是16号之后呼吸困难加重，完全不能下床，大小便都在床上。
But after the 16th, breathing difficulties increased, completely unable to get out of bed, urine and feces are in bed.
24号转到呼吸内科重症监护室。
24 to respiratory intensive care unit.
现在采用抗生素、激素、抗病毒类药物和高流量吸氧治疗。
Antibiotics, hormones, antiviral drugs and high-flow oxygen therapy are now used.
深一度：从进入重症监护室到现在病情有好转吗？受感染医生：变化不大。
Deep One: Is the condition getting better from the intensive care unit to now? Infected Doctor: Not much.
医生说这几天就该出现拐点了，但是肺功能的恢复会比较慢。
Doctors say there should be an inflection point in the next few days, but lung function will recover more slowly.
深一度：你们科室还有别的同事出现类似的状况吗？受感染医生：还有两个同事，有一个在我后面几天感染的，严重程度跟我差不多，还有一个症状比较轻。
Once upon a time: Is there anyone else in your department who is in a similar situation? Infected Doctor: Two more colleagues, one of whom got infected a few days later, just as badly as I did, and one who had a mild case.
深一度：在病房住院时医护人员的防护措施做得如何？受感染医生：住在我们科室时候的同事就戴N95口罩，穿隔离衣。
Once upon a time: How well did the staff protect themselves when they were hospitalized? Infected Doctor: Our colleagues who lived in our department wore N95 masks and protective clothing.
他们也知道自己的防护措施做得不够，但也还是正常做治疗，担心被感染是人之常情，但这是工作啊，而且病人是自己朝夕相处的同事。
They know they're not doing enough, but they're doing it normally, fearing that it's normal to get infected, but it's work, and the patient is a constant companion.
转去呼吸科之后医护人员的防护措施就完善了，穿防护衣，戴N95口罩和护目镜。
Protective measures for medical staff were improved after the transfer to the respiratory unit, wearing protective clothing, N95 masks and goggles.
深一度：你的用药一直是充足的吗？受感染医生：用药是一直充足的，就是现在还没有特效药出现。
Once upon a time: Have you been taking enough medication? Infected Doctor: The medication has been sufficient.
深一度：治疗需要自己花钱吗？受感染医生：暂时还没有催费，政府说是会兜底治疗费用。
Once upon a time: Does the treatment cost you money? Infected Doctor: There's no urge yet. The government says it will cover the cost of treatment.
但是我用了很多免疫球蛋白都是自己托人从外面买的，这个估计只能自费。
But I had a lot of immunoglobulins bought by myself, and this estimate had to be self-funded.
免疫球蛋白现在600元左右一瓶，我每天打8瓶，已经打了11天了。
Immunoglobulin is now around 600 yuan a bottle, I play 8 bottles a day, has been playing for 11 days.
免疫球蛋白现在也越来越不好买，价格估计还会上涨，之前买的还能用两天，到时候看还需不需要，再找人去买。
Immune globulin is becoming more and more difficult to buy, prices are expected to rise, the previous purchase can be used for two days, and then see if you need it, someone to buy it.
深一度：目前医院有三餐供应正常吗？受感染医生：有，食堂免费配送的，营养还可以。
Once upon a time: Is there a normal supply of three meals in the hospital? Infected Doctor: Yes, the canteen is free and nutritious.
得病之后食欲不振，我的情况是一般只能吃一点小菜，喝一点牛奶，吃不下太多。
After the illness loss of appetite, my situation is generally can only eat a small dish, drink a little milk, can not eat too much.
深一度：你家人有出现被传染的情况吗？受感染医生：我父母在我之后两天也出现发热、呕吐的症状，检测出来肺部CT也呈现磨玻璃样病变。
Once in a while: Has your family had an infection? Infected Doctor: My parents also had fever and vomiting two days after I did, and computed tomography (CT) of the lungs showed a grinded glass-like lesion.
他们是1月15、16号的样子住院治疗的，当时就很难住进去，床位已经很紧张了。
They were hospitalized on January 15th and 16th, when it was difficult to get in and the beds were already tight.
他们症状比较轻，前天（25日）和他们通过电话说还好，估计最近就可以出院了。
Their symptoms are relatively light, the day before yesterday (25) and they said on the telephone that it is okay, I expect to be discharged soon.
我不敢和他们多说我的情况，怕他们担心我。
I dare not tell them more about me for fear that they should worry about me.
深一度：你可以每天和家人通话吧？受感染医生：可以，我每天和老婆视频聊天，她每天都在鼓励我，让我积极治疗，她和儿子都在等着我。
Once in a while: Can you talk to your family everyday? Infected Doctor: Yes, I do. I chat with my wife on video every day.
我目前呼吸困难，说话不太方便，一般都是她说我听。
I'm having trouble breathing and I'm having trouble speaking. She's usually the one who says I'm listening.
（根据受访者要求，受感染医生做匿名处理）【反侵权公告】本文系北京青年报在今日头条独家首发，未经授权，不得转载。
(Anonymous treatment of the infected physician upon request of the interviewee) This article is published by the Beijing Youth Daily on the front page of today. It is not allowed to be reproduced without authorization.
抗击新型冠状病毒的基层医院|深度报道 我与“新型冠状病毒”搏斗的22天| 深度报道 照顾发烧丈夫，妻子穿上一次性塑料雨衣| 深度报道。
AT BASIC & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; In-depth coverage at & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; In-depth coverage.
