坍塌事故中遇难的21岁医生，曾羡慕朋友在防疫一线。
The 21-year-old doctor who died in the collapse was envious of his friends on the preventive front.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻记者 王选辉 实习生 郑旭 许亦莹3月7日晚八点多，唐双平正在开车，手机弹出一则新闻——“福建泉州欣佳酒店坍塌，多人被埋”。
Wang Pai-hui intern Cheng Xu Yi Ying March 7 more than 8 p.m., Tang Shuangping was driving, mobile phone pop-up a news - "Fujian Quanzhou Xinjia Hotel collapsed, many people were buried."
“这不就是儿子值班的酒店？”唐双平紧急停下车，马上拨打儿子唐凡的电话，“对不起您拨打的电话暂时无法接通……”来不及多想，唐双平径直驱车赶往欣佳酒店。
"Isn't this the hotel where his son is on duty?" Tang Shuangping stopped the car and dialed his son Tang Fan immediately. "I'm sorry that the number you dialed is temporarily unavailable..." Tang Shuangping drove straight to Xinjia Hotel.
然而，现场能看到的只是一片废墟，各地消防员、医护人员正陆续增援。
However, the scene can only see the ruins of a place where firefighters, medical personnel are being reinforced.
几天蹲守，焦虑的唐双平没有等来想要的消息。
Several days of squatting, anxious Tang Shuangping did not wait for the desired information.
3月10日下午，经家属遗体辨认，确认唐凡已经遇难。
On the afternoon of 10 March, the remains of his family were identified as dead.
中年丧子的悲痛，让唐双平直接昏迷过去。
The loss of middle-aged children, Tang Shuangping directly unconscious past.
遇难医生唐凡。
Doctor Don Van.
本文图片 受访者提供唐凡，今年21周岁，是泉州万祥医院医学影像科的一名年轻医生，入职不到一年。
This picture shows Tang Fan, 21 years old, a young doctor in the medical imaging department of Wanxiang Quanzhou Hospital, less than a year after taking office.
去年7月份，他刚结束一年的援助新疆志愿者项目，回到泉州。
Last July, he returned to Quanzhou after a year-long aid program for volunteers in Xinjiang.
2月中旬，欣佳酒店被定为新冠肺炎福建省外疫情重点地区来鲤城区人员的集中医学观察点。
In mid-February, Xinjia Hotel was designated as the focal point of the outbreak outside the Fujian Province of New Crown Pneumonia.
唐凡在那时被派往该酒店负责日常防疫工作，楼坍塌当晚正是他值班。
At the time, Mr. Tang was assigned to the hotel for routine immunization and was on duty the night the building collapsed.
生活中，唐凡是朋友眼中的阳光少年，会唱歌，喜欢弹吉他，偶尔也玩“吃鸡游戏”。
In life, Tang generally in the eyes of friends of the sun teenager, can sing, like to play guitar, and occasionally play "chicken game."
在朋友圈中，唐凡会分享他自己的思考。
In a circle of friends, Tang Fan would share his own thoughts.
福州市连江县一卫生院的医生王思南是唐凡的发小。
Lianjiang County, Fuzhou City, a medical doctor Wang Sinan is small hair.
疫情爆发不久，他就进入隔离区工作，“唐凡和我说，他很羡慕我，能在防疫一线工作。
Shortly after the outbreak, he went to work in the quarantine area. "Tang Fan and I said he envied me for being able to work on the front line of epidemic prevention.
然而，他今天却倒在了一线。
Today, however, he is on the brink.
”唐凡和王思南聊过很多，包括事业、父母、爱情。
"Tang Fan and Wang Sinan talked a lot about their careers, their parents and their love.
他们曾一起约定：自己成功的速度一定要超过父母老去的速度。
Together, they agreed that they must outgrow the pace of their parents' old age.
谁也没想到，那天晚上，酒店塌了，还带走了他年轻的生命。
No one thought that the hotel had collapsed that night and had taken away his young life.
学医唐双平是湖南省邵阳县洞口县人，上世纪90年代，他来到了泉州。
Tang Shuangping, a medical student from Dongkou County, Shaoyang County, Hunan Province, arrived in Quanzhou in the 1990s.
位于福建东部沿海的泉州，是中国民营经济最为发达的地区之一，是很多人打工、创业的首选地。
Quanzhou, located on the east coast of Fujian Province, is one of the most developed areas of China's private economy.
3岁的时候，唐凡跟随着父母来到了泉州，一直待到现在。
When he was 3 years old, Tang Fan followed his parents to Quanzhou and stayed there until now.
经过一系列的打拼，他们终于在泉州安家落户。
After a series of struggles, they finally settled down in Quanzhou.
唐凡的父亲在保险公司上班，母亲则支了个烧烤摊做夜市生意，家里还有个15岁的妹妹。
His father works for an insurance company, his mother runs a barbecue stand for the night market, and his 15-year-old sister.
“初中毕业时，他和我说想当医生，我就同意了。
"When I graduated from junior high, he told me he wanted to be a doctor and I agreed.
”唐双平说。
"said Tang.
之后，唐凡报考了泉州医学高等专科学校，成了该校医学影像技术专业（五年制大专）的一名学生。
Later, Tang Fan applied to Quanzhou Medical Technical College, became the medical imaging technology of the school (five-year college) a student.
凑巧的是，此前和他小学同班的好友王思南也报考了这个专业，同在一个班级上课。
Coincidentally, before and his classmate Wang SiNan also applied for this major, with a class in the same class.
两人还被分配到了同一个宿舍。
They were also assigned to the same dormitory.
为什么选择学医？唐凡没有和王思南正面聊过这个话题。
Why choose to study medicine? Tang Fan and Wang SiNan did not talk about this topic head on.
在王思南看来，唐凡是个有“医者心”的人，热心、善良、积极。
In Wang SiNan's view, Tang has a "doctor's heart" of people, warm-hearted, kind, positive.
“在我眼里，唐凡是个做事积极，一身正气的人。
In my opinion, Don is always a positive and upright person.
”接受澎湃新闻采访时王思南说。
"Wang said in an interview with the roaring news.
在学校里，唐凡因为个性活泼，所以人缘很好，经常参加志愿活动。
In school, Tang Fan because of the lively personality, so people are very popular, often participate in voluntary activities.
在大学，他们两人作为志愿者一起参加过图书漂流会的活动。
In college, the two of them joined the book-rafting club as volunteers.
大学时，因为兴趣，唐凡还学会了弹吉他，有时会在宿舍练习，毕业时有上台表演过一次。
When he was a college student, he learned to play the guitar. Sometimes he practiced in his dorm room.
他也喜欢体育锻炼，经常会和王思南相约去跑步。
He also enjoys physical exercise and often goes for a run with Wang.
对于演员，唐凡喜欢胡歌多一点，属于“喜欢但不追星”类型。
For the actor, Tang Fan likes Hu Song a little bit, belongs to "likes but does not pursue the star" type.
王思南说，上学时唐凡的生活费不多，为了节省常常回家，是大学宿舍里最常回家的一个。
Mr. Wang said Tang Fan didn't live much at school and was the most common homecoming in college dorms to save money.
“虽然他脸庞是稚嫩的，但思想是成熟的。
"Though his face is young, his mind is mature.
他内心的信念已经很坚定强大，懂得了义务，也懂得为父母思考。
His inner convictions were strong and firm, he knew duty and he knew how to think for his parents.
”在大学辅导员刘阳城看来，唐凡是个很负责任的学生。
Liu Yangcheng, a college counselor, sees Tang as a responsible student.
每年九月开学时，他会主动帮老师承担一些事情，协助老师做好迎接新生准备。
When school starts in September each year, he takes the initiative to help teachers do something to help prepare teachers for the new year.
唐凡有参加学校的志愿者协会，会尽自己力所能及地去帮助同学，“有时候事情比较多，我也会叫他帮忙做一些事情。
Whenever there were volunteer associations at school, he would do his best to help his classmates. "Sometimes when things are a lot more, I ask him to do something.
”刘阳城说。
"said Liu.
在学校，刘阳城经常会对同学们开展医德教育。
In school, Liu Yangcheng often conducts medical ethics education for his classmates.
“其实，医生不一定有那么多很光辉的理想，但他们懂得什么是责任。
"Doctors don't have all those brilliant ideals, but they know what responsibility is.
”他认为唐凡是个好学生，也是个负责任的医生，践行了的他们医学影像技术班的班训——“医为仁术，学识才德”。
He thought Tang was a good student and a responsible doctor, and practiced the lesson of his medical imaging class, "Medicine is kindness, learning is virtue."
援疆2018年7月，唐凡大学毕业后并没有选择直接工作，而是选择了援疆。
Xinjiang 2018 July, Tang Fan University did not choose to work directly after graduation, but chose to help Xinjiang.
经过学校推荐、严格审核，他成为了大学生志愿服务西部计划新疆专项活动的一名志愿者。
After being recommended and vetted strictly by the school, he became a volunteer for the special activities of the Western Volunteer Service Program for University Students in Xinjiang.
志愿服务过程中，伙伴们为唐凡庆生。
In the process of volunteering, the partners celebrate Tangfan's birthday.
在和父亲商量过去做支援新疆的志愿者时，父亲唐双平表示支持他的决定，“我和他说，男孩子能去新疆锻炼锻炼，是不错的。
"When I talked to my father about volunteering in Xinjiang, his father, Tang Shuangping, expressed support for his decision." I told him that it is good for boys to go to Xinjiang for exercise.
”出发新疆前，王思南前来送行，请他吃了一顿饭，让他在新疆期间保重身体，注意安全，“到了新疆还会经常和大家联系，告诉大家他在那过得很好，请大家放心。
Before leaving Xinjiang, Wang Sinan came to see him off, invited him to have a meal and asked him to take good care of himself and pay attention to safety during his stay in Xinjiang.
”唐凡服务的地方是福建对口援助的新疆昌吉回族自治州下辖的木垒县，他被安排至县纪委监委工作。
Tangfan, who works in a wooden barricade county under the jurisdiction of Xinjiang's Changji Hui Autonomous Prefecture with counterpart aid from Fujian, was assigned to the county disciplinary committee.
在木垒县援助时的志愿者同事王瑞虹向澎湃新闻回忆，与唐凡同届的志愿者共有11人，其中5人是省外的。
Wu Ruihong, a volunteer colleague at Muk Lai County, recalled to the crowd that he and Tang Fan had 11 volunteers, five of whom were from outside the province.
“唐凡是志愿者中是最帅气的，大冬天的时候经常‘要风度不要温度’，每个人见了他，都会提醒他多穿衣服。
"Tang is usually the most handsome of the volunteers, winter time often 'demeanor not temperature', everyone saw him, will remind him to wear more clothes.
”在木垒县，或许因为水土饮食的原因，唐凡的肠胃总不舒服。
In Muqian County, perhaps because of the soil and water diet, Tangfan's stomach was always uncomfortable.
王瑞虹经常打车送他去医院。
Wang Ruihong often takes a taxi to the hospital.
但唐凡都非常客气，总是和身边的人说：“我没事。
But everything was very polite and always said to the people around him, "I'm fine.
”得知唐凡去世，木垒县纪委常委谢莉为澎湃新闻谈了她关于唐凡的回忆。
"Knowing that Tangfan had died, Sherry, a standing committee of the county discipline committee, talked about her memories of Tang Fan for the news.
刚开始，唐凡所支援单位的同事都说“不会吧？！”“再等等最后的搜救信息？！”谢莉说，谁都不愿意接受这个现实。
At first, all the colleagues in the support units said, "No?!" "Wait for the final search and rescue information?!" Shelley said.
唐凡是谢莉工作20多年来年龄最小的一个同事，她记得，2018年8月初唐凡刚刚被自治区团委、县团委分配到她所在单位时，她去开会接的他，“年轻的他长着一张充满稚气的脸、白晰的皮肤，初见生人还有些害羞的样子。
Don, who is the youngest colleague Shelley has worked in for more than 20 years, remembers that in early August 2018, when Tang had just been assigned to her unit by the Autonomous Community Commission and the county college committee, she went to the meeting to meet him.
”在闲聊中谢莉又得知唐凡是家中唯一的男孩，就问他：“那你父母怎么舍得让你到这么远的新疆来？”唐凡说：“我是男孩子，就应该到艰苦边远的地方锻炼呀！”谢莉当时对他的回答有些吃惊，心想：一个90后的孩子能有这样的想法和做法，可以给他一个大大的“赞”。
In the middle of the chat Shelley learned that Tang was the only boy in the family and asked him, "How come your parents are willing to let you come all the way to Xinjiang?"
志愿服务的一年中，唐凡先后在机关组织部、办公室、党风室、扫黑办等科室工作。
During the year of volunteer service, Tang Fan worked in the department of organization, office, party room and anti-black office.
“虽然唐凡是学医的，但他计算机水平好，性格稳重内向，与木垒县的机关、乡镇的各族同事们都能开心地相处。
"Although Tang usually studied medicine, but his computer skills, calm and introverted personality, and wooden barricade county organs, townships and colleagues can be happy together.
”谢莉回忆。
"Shelley recalled.
“他操着一口浓重的南方口音，话不多。
'He speaks with a strong southern accent, and not much.
”因谢莉平时工作繁杂，就安排唐凡和单位一个业务精通、为人和睦、50多岁哈萨克族老大哥同坐一个办公室，希望一来他在异乡不会感觉到孤单，二来可以静下心来好好跟着学习锻炼。
"Because of Shelley's busy schedule, Tang Fan and his 50-year-old Kazakh elder brother, who is a professional and harmonious person, would share an office in the hope that, on the one hand, he would not feel lonely in a foreign country and, on the other hand, that he would settle down and study hard.
谢莉介绍，一年来，唐凡帮助整理干部档案、参加单位值班、节假日还与同事们一道深入乡镇、村督查，参与办公用房的核查。
"Over the past year, Tang Fan has helped organize cadres' files, taken part in work shifts and holidays, and traveled to townships and villages with colleagues to take part in the inspection of office premises, Shelley said.
闲暇时，他在办公室拿着医学方面的书学习。
In his spare time, he studied in the office with books on medicine.
到了新疆，唐凡很快融入当地。
When he arrived in Xinjiang, Tang Fan quickly melted into the local area.
2019年青年联谊晚会上，他和同事联唱。
He co-sang with his colleagues at the 2019 Youth Social Gala.
很快，唐凡就融入到了当地。
Soon, Don Van got into the area.
在当地组织的2019年青年联谊晚会上，唐凡还上台表演，和同事一起完成了《为你写诗》《童话》两首歌曲的联唱。
At the 2019 youth fellowship hosted by the local organization, Mr. Tang also performed onstage and performed with colleagues on a duet called "Writing Poetry for You" and "Fairy Tales."
刘阳城说，在新疆的唐凡一直牵挂着家中的父母和妹妹。
Tangfan in Xinjiang has been worrying about his parents and younger sister, Liu said.
2019年6月14日，唐凡发过一条朋友圈：“新疆美于良景，福建美于思念。
On June 14, 2019, Tang Fan issued a circle of friends: "Xinjiang beautiful in good view, Fujian beauty in missing.
”援疆过程，他仍心系福建。
He remained attached to Fujian in the process of aid.
志愿服务期间，唐凡参加了公务员、事业单位招考。
During the period of voluntary service, Tang Fan participated in civil service, public institutions recruitment.
2019年7月，一年的服务期结束，唐凡回到了泉州。
In July 2019, at the end of a year of service, Tang Fan returned to Quanzhou.
从新疆回来后，唐凡也曾回到学校和刘阳城交流，“这一年给了他很大的改变，他懂得了家在哪里，根在哪里。
Upon his return from Xinjiang, Tang Fan also returned to school to communicate with Liu Yangcheng. "This year has given him a great change and he has learned where his home is and where his roots are.
”遇难刘阳城说，唐凡回泉州后，他就鼓励唐凡，先工作就业，之后再准备考公立医院或者公务员。
"When he returned to Quanzhou, Tang was encouraged to work and take up employment before preparing for the public hospital or civil service, Liu said.
很快，唐凡在泉州万祥医院应聘成功，成为该院影像科的一名医生。
Soon, Tang Fan in Quanzhou Wanxiang Hospital successfully applied for, became the hospital imaging department of a doctor.
回到福建，唐凡和王思南的联系又更多了。
Back in Fujian, Tang Fan and Wang SiNan have more contact.
他们聊过很多，包括事业、父母、爱情。
They talked a lot about their careers, their parents, their love.
唐凡也会在朋友圈中分享一些对感情的想法。
Mr. Tang also shares some thoughts about relationships with friends.
“生活其实很不公平，幸福总是需要代价，可即使如此，还是有那么多人甘之如饴，希望你们都能遇到把你看得比自己更重要的那个人。
Even so, there are so many people who relish it. Hope you all meet the person who makes you feel more important than you.
” 2019年9月18日，唐凡发了这条朋友圈，配上了周杰伦《说好不哭》的MV中的截图。
On Sept. 18, 2019, Mr. Tang sent out this circle of friends with screenshots from Jay Chou's "Say Goodbye and No Cry" MV.
“过了这个寒冬，下个春天到了，就应该会好一点了吧。
'After this cold winter, the next spring will come, and it should be better.
我在等春天，但如果是你的话，那么春天它就不值一提。
I'm waiting for spring, but if it's you, it's not worth mentioning in spring.
”2019年12月13日凌晨，唐凡又更新了朋友圈。
In the early hours of December 13, 2019, Tang Fan renewed his circle of friends.
朋友圈中，他会分享对感情，对生活的思考。
In a circle of friends, he shares his thoughts about his feelings and his life.
在聊天中，唐凡和王思南一起约定：自己成功的速度一定要超过父母老去的速度。
In the chat, Tang Fan and Wang SiNan agreed: their success must outpace the pace of aging parents.
他认为的“成功”标准是：考个主管技师，月收入过万。
He thinks the "success" criterion is: a competent technician, a monthly income of more than 10,000.
为了减轻家里的负担，他还曾和王思南说过想打两份工。
To ease the burden on his family, he also told Wang that he wanted to work two jobs.
1月中下旬，新冠肺炎爆发，全国医护人员进入高度紧张的工作状态中。
In the second half of January, the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia led health workers across the country into a state of intense work.
福州市连江县出现了福建省首例确诊病例，王思南很快进入了抗疫的工作状态，“大年初二就进入隔离区，之后还分配到咽拭子采样组。
The first confirmed case occurred in Lianjiang County, Fuzhou City. Wang Xiannan quickly entered the working state of the epidemic. "On the second day of the year, he entered the quarantine zone and was later assigned swabs sampling group.
”知道王思南进入隔离区，唐凡反而表示很羡慕。
Knowing that Wang had entered the quarantine zone, Tang Fan expressed admiration instead.
“他说，他也想投入到一线的工作当中。
"He also wants to be on the front line," he said.
”2月中旬，泉州市鲤城区设立了两个集中隔离观察点，其中之一就是欣佳酒店，来自湖北、温州等外省疫情重点地区人员在此隔离观察。
In mid-February, two centralized quarantine stations were set up in Lei City, Quanzhou City, one of which was the Xinjia Hotel, where personnel from key provinces such as Hubei and Wenzhou were quarantined.
随后，唐凡作为医疗组成员被派往该酒店负责日常防疫工作，每休息两天值班一天，值班期间24小时需要待在隔离点，对隔离人员进行日常测量体温等工作。
Later, as a member of the medical team, Tang Fan was assigned to the hotel for routine vaccination, one day off every two days and 24-hour periods during which he had to stay in isolation to take daily temperature checks of the isolated persons.
3月7日一早八点，和往常一样，唐凡和妈妈打了个招呼就去上班了。
At eight o'clock on the morning of March 7, as usual, Tang Fan and his mother said hello and went to work.
谁也不知道，危险正在悄然靠近。
No one knows that danger is creeping in.
当天19时15分许，泉州欣佳酒店发生坍塌事故，正在值班的唐凡被埋在了废墟之下。
Around 19: 15 on the same day, Quanzhou Xinjia Hotel collapsed, the duty of Tang Fan was buried under the rubble.
20时许，唐双平得知酒店出事的消息，立刻拨打了儿子的电话，却一直没有人接听。
Around 2000 hours, Tang Shuangping learned of the hotel accident, immediately called his son's telephone, but no one answered.
抵达现场后，已经一片废墟，穿着橙黄相间工作服的消防员正在紧张开展救援。
Arrive at the scene, already in ruins, dressed in orange and yellow working clothes firefighters are engaged in intensive rescue work.
“儿子现在已经关机了，我的手机也打得没电了，不知道该怎么办。
"My son is off now and my cell phone is dead. I don't know what to do.
”当有位现场记者将充电宝借给唐双平时，他双手颤抖着，几次都未能将充电线插入手机。
When a live reporter lent Tang Shuangwang the recharger, his hands trembled and he failed to plug the charging line into the phone several times.
之后的两天，除了在救援现场等待，唐双平还到收治获救者的医院一家家询问，都没有找到儿子。
For the next two days, in addition to waiting at the rescue site, Tang Shuangping to the hospital where the rescued persons were admitted to inquire, but did not find his son.
3月10日下午，唐双平被通知到殡仪馆辨认儿子尸体，确认儿子已经遇难后，唐双平晕倒过去。
On the afternoon of March 10, Tang Shuangping was told to identify his son's body at the funeral parlour and confirmed that he had died.
“21年前，您给我带来生活的希望，21年后，你又把我推入无穷的绝望。
"Twenty-one years ago, you gave me hope for life, and 21 years later you sent me into unending despair.
”唐双平在朋友圈写下他的悲伤。
"Tang Shuangping wrote about his sadness in a circle of friends.
面对儿子的离去，唐双平悲痛不已。
In the face of his son's departure, Tang Shuangping grief.
包括唐凡在内，此次事故已经造成28人死亡。
Including Tangfan, the accident has killed 28 people.
3月11日，泉州市政府常务副市长洪自强在新闻发布会上表示，“经初步调查，欣佳酒店在建设、改造和审批等方面存在严重问题。
"Based on preliminary investigations, Xin Jia Hotel has serious problems in construction, renovation and approval," Hong Zhiqiang, deputy mayor of Quanzhou city government, told a news conference on March 11.
”同时他还表示，将针对该建筑建设、改造、经营各环节，包括选定为隔离点的原因进行调查，对涉及的违法违规责任人决不姑息。
At the same time, he said the construction, renovation and operation of the building, including the reasons for the selection of isolation points, will be investigated, and those responsible for the violations will not be tolerated.
唐凡姑姑介绍，因为悲伤过度，唐凡妈妈也一直卧床不起，唐双平也经常默默抹眼泪，“多好的一个孩子，太可惜了。
Aunt Tangfan introduced, because of the excessive sadness, Tang Fan mother has also been bedridden, Tang Shuangping also often silently wiping tears, "What a good child, what a pity.
”戳这里进入“全国新型冠状病毒感染病例实时地图”↓↓本期编辑 邢潭推荐阅读。
Pricing here into a "National Real-time Map of New Coronavirus Infections," PhD editor Xing Tam recommends reading.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
坍塌事故中遇难的21岁医生，曾羡慕朋友在防疫一线。
The 21-year-old doctor who died in the collapse was envious of his friends on the preventive front.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "坍塌事故中遇难的21岁医生，曾羡慕朋友在防疫一线";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "“多好的一个孩子，太可惜了。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "What a pity it was to have such a nice child.
”";。
";;
title: '硬核奶奶对不起，我们都瞒了您',。
A: I'm sorry, but we all told you & apos; & quot; at your service.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '意大利发生监狱暴动，20人越狱7人死亡',。
A prison riot in Italy has resulted in the death of 7 of its 20 people.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '71岁危重患者想放弃，医生做了个大胆的决定',。
At 71, a critically ill person who wanted to give up, the doctor made a bold decision to service.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
