连载•黄冈日记⑦｜志愿者群一天多了14个，九成是刚认识的_直击现场_澎湃新闻-The Paper。
+ 12 + less than + + + + + + + + + + + +, + + + + +, + + + +, + + + + + + + + The Paper.
报料。
News feed.
注册。
Registration.
登录。
Login.
下载APP。
Download APP.
精选。
Selected.
抗疫。
Anti-epidemic.
抗疫防控新型冠状病毒肺炎。
Anti-epidemic control of new coronavirus pneumonia.
。
.
视频。
Video.
上直播。
Live broadcast.
拉近你与现场距离。
Bring you closer to the scene.
七环视频。
Seven-ring video.
为了更美好的生活。
For a better life.
温度计。
Thermometers.
深度记录社会冷暖。
Depth of record society warm and cold.
一级视场。
Level 1 field of view.
及时现场，洞察财经事件。
On-site, insight into financial issues.
World湃。
World surging.
看见新闻全球化。
See the globalization of information.
湃客科技。
Pai guest technology.
聚焦前沿，展现新兴企业。
Focus on the frontier and showcase emerging businesses.
纪录湃。
The record runs high.
纪录澎湃中国。
China is on record.
围观。
Look around.
以影像介入社会生活。
Imaging into social life.
@所有人。
@ All.
所有人在看。
Everyone's watching.
大都会。
Metropolis.
看上海 最都会。
It's the best city in Shanghai.
追光灯。
Searchlight.
让你看到文艺生活。
Let you see the literary life.
运动装。
Sportswear.
直观运动，可以装不要伪装。
Intuitive movement, can be installed without camouflage.
健寻记。
Health care.
追寻活到一百岁的秘诀。
The secret to living to be a hundred years old.
AI播报。
AI announces.
互联网新闻+：AI播报。
Internet news +: AI broadcasts.
眼界。
Eye-catching.
每日一条视频，与新闻同步。
One video per day, synced with the news.
时事。
Current affairs.
中国政库洞悉中国动向的时政解读。
China's treasurer has insight into the current state of affairs in China.
中南海权威细致的领导人报道。
Zhongnanhai authority meticulous leader report.
舆论场倾听复杂世界的弦外之音。
Opinion circles listen to the implications of the complex world.
打虎记中国反腐报道第一平台。
Tiger Kit China Anti-Corruption Report First Platform.
人事风向快速专业的人事信息集合地。
Personnel wind speed and professional collection of personnel information.
法治中国司改风向，法治观察。
Rule of Law China Division wind direction, rule of law observation.
一号专案司法个案，法治调查。
Ad hoc Judicial Case No. 1, Rule of Law Investigations.
港台来信感觉不一样的港台报道。
RTHK's letter feels different from RTHK's report.
长三角政商解读区域政情与财富故事。
The Yangtze River Delta political and economic interpretation of regional political and wealth story.
直击现场第一现场，文图视频直播。
Click on the scene of the first scene, text video live.
公益湃记录公益发展，共建责任生态。
Public welfare record of public welfare development, jointly build ecological responsibility.
。
.
暖闻人间真善美，社会正能量。
Hear the world is good and beautiful, society is positive energy.
。
.
澎湃质量报告打假除劣，破套防坑——专注消费者权益保护。
Pai Pai quality report to fight fraud and shoddy, broken pit - focus on consumer rights and interests protection.
绿政公署环境与公共健康调查。
Environmental and Public Health Survey of the Green Administration.
澎湃国际All News In。
All News In, Peng Pai.
外交学人New World Order。
Diplomat New World Order.
澎湃防务Cyclopedia for military。
Cyclopedia for military defence.
唐人街海外利益，华人故事。
Overseas Interests in Chinatown, Chinese Stories.
澎湃人物提供最有态度的人物报道。
The roaring characters provide the most critical coverage of the characters.
浦江头条上海每天最重要的事件。
The most important events of the day in Shanghai.
教育家最先进的教育理念在此碰撞。
Educators' most advanced educational ideas collide here.
全景现场360度感识全景现场。
Panoramic scene 360-degree panorama scene.
美数课数字是骨骼，设计是灵魂。
Numbers are bones; design is the soul.
快看快看，图片会说话。
Look quick. Pictures talk.
财经。
Finance.
10%公司派发上市公司变革红利。
10 per cent distribute change dividends to listed companies.
能见度能源行业最具穿透力的思想。
Visibility The most penetrating thinking in the energy industry.
地产界地产界所有你想知道的事儿。
Real estate Everything you want to know.
财经上下游跨界找寻市场常识。
Cross-boundary market common sense.
金改实验室金融创新灵感集散地。
Financial innovation center of Jinchang Lab.
牛市点线面简单专业时尚的财富平台。
Bull market simple professional fashion wealth platform.
科技湃让我们走近科学。
Technology has brought us closer to science.
澎湃商学院品牌课外书，生活经济学。
Peng Pai Business School Brand Extracurricular Books, Life Economics.
自贸区连线自贸区第一信息和服务平台。
Free Trade Area line free trade area first information and service platform.
进博会在线走进中国国际进口博览会。
Into the Fair online into China International Import Expo.
澎湃号。
'cried the roar.
湃客。
The roar.
政务。
Government affairs.
媒体。
The media.
思想。
Ideas.
社论澎湃的立场。
The editorial was strong.
澎湃评论在这里知道更多。
Pai Pai comments know more here.
思想湃明亮的对话，澎湃的思想。
Thoughts of bright dialogue, surging thoughts.
上海书评全球百位华文写作名家撰稿。
The Shanghai Book Review is written by 100 leading Chinese writers.
思想市场有竞争的思想讲底蕴的政治。
The thought market has the competitive thought to speak the underlying politics.
私家历史发现历史之美。
Private history finds the beauty of history.
翻书党微时代的首选书单。
Turn over the book party microage first choice book list.
艺术评论独立态度解析中外艺术热点。
Artistic Comment Independent Attitude Analyzes the Hot Spots of Chinese and Foreign Art.
古代艺术巡礼人类的艺术遗产。
Ancient Art Parades the artistic heritage of mankind.
文化课关注人文景观投身人类文明。
Cultural courses focus on humanistic landscape into human civilization.
逝者记录逝者为世界留下的财富。
The dead record the wealth left to the world by the dead.
澎湃研究所为中国城市问题提供澎湃方案。
The Peng Pai Institute offers a robust programme on urban issues in China.
。
.
市政厅中国城市问题专家。
City Hall of China experts on urban issues.
城市漫步人塑造地方，地方也塑造人。
Urban strollers shape places, and places shape people.
智库报告展示全球最具价值的智库研究成果。
The think tank report showcases the world's most valuable think tank research.
专栏名家专家，上天入地。
An expert columnist.
异次元打破次元壁。
Heterogeneous element breaks the secondary wall.
生活。
Life.
有戏陪你过一种审美的生活。
Have a play to accompany you to live an aesthetic life.
文艺范一线文艺生活。
Literary and artistic life.
身体探索身体的奥秘。
The body explores the secrets of the body.
私·奔跑步是一种态度。
Personal running is an attitude.
运动家看体育如何改变世界。
Athletes see how sport can change the world.
私家地理旅途的旨趣、技艺以及乡愁。
The Purport, Skill, and Nostalgia of the Private Geographic Journey.
非常品用态度引领时尚。
A very good attitude leads to fashion.
楼市不一样的楼市观察。
Different property market observation.
生活方式更好生活，我们有一些意见。
We have some suggestions for a better way of life.
澎湃联播半个段子兽半个评论猿。
Half a section of the beast commented on apes.
视界视界观，观世界。
Look at the world, look at the world.
亲子学堂理解孩子，认知自己。
Parents and children learn to understand their children, know themselves.
赢家直击中国体育产业生存现状。
Winners strike at the survival of China's sports industry.
汽车圈专注汽车产经报道。
Auto industry focus on the auto industry report.
问吧。
'he asked.
订阅。
Subscriptions.
把你最喜欢的栏目添加到这里来哦。
Add your favorite column here.
马上登录。
Sign in now.
setMsgMark(); //login异步之后调用位置修改。
Call location modification after setMsgMark; / / login asynchronous.
// 顶部广告自适应。
/ / Top Advertising Adaptability.
// xml返回了creativeHeight。
/ / xml returned creativeLight.
//图片拓展图片时。
/ / Photo when expanding the picture.
if(typeof(xml.find("Cexpansion")[0])!="undefined"){   //是否需要展开。
If (typeof (xml. find; Cempansion & quot;) & # 91; 0 & # 93;)! = & quot; underdefined & quot;) {/ / whether it needs to be carried out.
var cexpansion = xml.find("Cexpansion")[0].textContent.trim();//展开时。
var text = xml. find (& quot; Cempansion & quot;) & # 91; 0 & # 93; .text Content.
//图片拓展视频时   。
/ / Photo when expanding the video.
//视频拓展视频时。
/ / Video when expanding the video.
//收起广告。
/ / Put the ad away.
//将 http://或者https:// 转为//。
/ / Conversion from http: / / https: / / to /.
首页。
Home page.
> 直击现场。
Running straight to the scene.
连载•黄冈日记⑦｜志愿者群一天多了14个，九成是刚认识的。
+ 12 + less than + less than + + + + + + + + + The volunteer group has more than 14 days.
特邀作者 郝诗光 龙振江 李颖霞 梦轩 孙璐 马亿 澎湃新闻记者 方岸 杜心羽 吴佳颖 实习生 李佳悦 整理。
Guest writer Hao Shiguang Longzhenjiang Li Ying Xia Xuan Sun Lu Ma million roaring journalist Fang Xin Yu Wu Jia Ying intern Li Jiayue tidy.
2020-03-12 06:46 来源：澎湃新闻。
2020-03-12 06: 46 Source: surging news.
字号。
The font size.
超大。
Extremely large.
大。
Big.
标准。
Standards.
小。
Small.
【编者按】新冠病毒给湖北乃至全国带来一场危机，黄冈是这场疫情的重灾区之一。
The new crown virus brings a crisis to Hubei and even to the whole country. Huanggang is one of the hardest hit areas of the epidemic.
在这场战役中，黄冈人经历了旁观-卷入-创伤-斗争-反思的过程。
In this battle, the Huanggang people experienced the process of watching-involved-traumatizing-fighting-introspection.
我们用亲历者日记连载的形式，试图纵深还原疫情侵袭下的黄冈这60天。
We tried to restore Huanggang to 60 days under the attack of the epidemic in the form of a diary series of relatives.
【郝诗光：江岸名都小区综合党支部书记，业委会副主任】1月26日 阴今天起床把各个新闻渠道的信息都梳理了一遍，事态比我想像的严重。
Hao Shi-guang: The secretary of the comprehensive Party branch of the Riverbank Famous District, the deputy director of the Industry Committee, got up today and combed the information from all the news channels.
武汉、鄂州、黄州“封城”之快之严出乎意料之外。
Wuhan, Huizhou, Huangzhou "closure" of the fast beyond expectations.
小区的江总准备往团风方向走，在道路卡口被拦住折返。
The district of the river is always ready to go toward the direction of the tour, at the intersection of the road was stopped and turned back.
微信群里还是各种奇谈怪调，无力纠缠，我也不多说了。
In the micro-letter group or a variety of strange talk, powerless entanglement, I do not say more.
下楼转了一下，发现3个门岗都是开放的。
A short walk down the stairs revealed that all three gates were open.
虽然“封城”已经过了多天，一些居民仍然没有养成戴口罩的习惯，一些人大包小包地往回运东西，看样子是在做持久战的准备。
Although more than a few days have passed since the closure of the city, some residents are still not in the habit of wearing masks, and some are shuttling back and forth in what appears to be a protracted war.
社区打电话来沟通了一些情况，通报一些数据，我们小区已有人出现在确诊及疑似的名单里，让我们做好应对准备。
The community called to communicate some information, some data, our community has appeared on the list of diagnosis and suspected, let us prepare for the response.
业委会的工作群里，我提出了主动封闭小区的想法。
In the working group of the industry committee, I put forward the idea of actively sealing off the community.
主要做法是：关闭黄州大道方向的两个侧门，只留西湖四路的门口出入。
The main approach is to close the Huangzhou Avenue direction of the two side doors, leaving only the four West Lake Road access.
即日起，小区的机动车许出不许进，回来的车辆一律停在小区外。
This day, the small area of motor vehicles are not allowed to enter, all vehicles back outside the residential area.
大家多数同意，也有提出不同意见的，上级没有说封闭小区，我们自己先封了？如何跟居民交待？在一线抗疫的机关工作人员辛苦了一天，不让他们的车子回小区，会不会让他们有想法？不过特殊时期，特殊手段，最后以少数服从多数的形式，通过。
Most people agree that there are also different views, the superior did not say that the closed community, we sealed it first? How to tell the residents? The staff of the first-line anti-epidemic agencies worked hard for a day to prevent their cars from returning to their neighborhoods.
当即同物业公司联系，要他们做好封闭准备，从下午2时起，小区正式封闭。
Immediately contact the property company, want them to prepare for closure, from 2 p.m. onwards, the community formally closed.
消息发布到业主群里后，并没有意料之中的反弹，估计高反弹期已经过了，大家已经接受了事实，并积极面对吧。
After the news was released to the owners, there was no expected rebound, estimated that the high rebound period has passed, everyone has accepted the facts, and actively face it.
2时，正式封闭。
Formally closed at 0200 hours.
我把自己小车打横作为路障，封住了黄州大道入口。
I used my car as a roadblock, blocking the entrance to Huangzhou Avenue.
中岗改以电子化值守为主，人力倾斜到西湖四路门。
Zhonggang to the electronic value of the main, human tilt to the West Lake Road door.
再次关照值守人员，要做好解释工作，避免跟业主发生冲突。
Once again take care of the guard, to do a good job of interpretation, to avoid conflict with the owner.
【孙璐：黄冈市黄州区四海社区网格员】1月26日今天是大年初二，新年没有假期。
Sun Lu: The Huangzhou District Huangzhou District Community Grid Wang Lu: January 26 today is New Year's Day, there is no holiday.
老公也接到了通知要回去工作，他在一个乡镇上班，他是党员，要上一线。
Husband also received notification to go back to work, he works in a township, he is a party member, to be on the front line.
这几天特别担心，害怕传染给女儿和婆婆，隔离住也不现实，虽然社区也想了办法，想去酒店订房间，让我们都住在外面。
These days special worry, fear of transmission to daughter and mother-in-law, isolation is not realistic, although the community also thought of ways to go to the hotel to make reservations, let us all live outside.
但是我们也都有家庭，酒店也被支援的医生住满了。
But we all have families, and the hotel is full of doctors.
现在让孩子和老人住一间房，我住一间房，吃饭分开吃，特殊时期还是得自己做好防护。
Now let the children and the old people live in a room, I live in a room, eat separate meals, or special period of their own protection.
爱心物资抵达黄冈已是半夜时分。
It was midnight when the supplies arrived in Huanggang.
龙振江供图【龙振江：志愿者】1月26日好事多磨。
Dragon Zhenjiang Feature Map [Longzhenjiang: Volunteer] January 26 Good things wear off.
在新冠疫情最紧张的时候，我四处寻找可用的防护物资，从中牵线搭桥，帮助最需要它们的医院或者其他机构代购；或者帮助捐赠者代购防护物资，运送给他们需要捐赠的对象，有时候会遇到各种困难。
At the height of the New Crown epidemic, I looked around for protective equipment to match and help buy from hospitals or other agencies that needed them most, or to help donors procure protective materials for those they needed to donate, sometimes with difficulties.
今天我去的地方比较多，一路去汉川、孝感、仙桃这几个地方，去甄别各种防护物资的真假，还有性价比。
Today, I went to more places, along the way to Hanchuan, filial piety, peach these places, to screen a variety of protection materials true and false, and cost-effective.
一路上困难也不少。
It was difficult all the way.
记得从汉川出发去仙桃已经傍晚了，距仙桃还有20多公里，我要找的一家医疗用品生产企业马上要下班了。
I remember it is evening since I set out for Xiantao from Hanchuan, more than 20 kilometers from Xiantao, and I'm looking for a medical supplies manufacturer who will be off duty soon.
我开着货车只用了10分钟快速赶到，可是对方说“不卖了”。
It only took me 10 minutes to get in my van, but the other guy said "No more."
太无力了，只能求人。
Too weak to ask.
拿出照片、证明给他看，表明我确实是捐赠的，不是留着卖的。
Show him a picture, show him that I did donate, not keep it for sale.
终于取得对方相信，从只肯卖我100件防护服，求到了1000件，然后再求到1万件以上，最后对方还给我送了几百件，一共买了12,000多件回来。
At last I was convinced that I could sell only 100 suits of protective clothing, get a thousand pieces, then ask for more than 10,000, and finally give me back a few hundred pieces, a total of more than 12,000 returned.
买完之后已经晚上12点多了，高速路口上不去了。
It's past 12: 00 p. m., so I can't go to the high-speed intersection.
又是各种求人，耗费了三个多小时，回到黄冈已经是半夜3点多。
It took more than three hours, and it was more than 3 o'clock in the middle of the night to return to Huanggang.
这批物资是黄冈市中心医院急需的物品。
The supplies were urgently needed at the Huanggang Central Hospital.
尽管很累，我还是第一时间送到医院。
Tired as I was, I got to the hospital the first time.
也有意外的收获。
There have also been windfalls.
今天，我的志愿者微信群由最初的2个迅速扩展成16个群，太多有爱心的人参与进来。
Today, my volunteer micro-group expanded rapidly from two to 16 groups, with too many caring people participating.
这些日子我遇到的人，百分之九十以上都是刚认识一天两天的，但大家像战友一样，为着“抗疫”这样同一个目标，做起事来都很爽快。
More than 90 percent of the people I meet these days have just met for a day or two, but everyone, like their comrades-in-arms, acts with alacrity in pursuit of the same goal of fighting the plague.
比如，我在群里扔一句“今晚差28万（元）”购买物资款，大家纷纷垫资或捐款，2小时就齐了。
For example, I threw a "280,000 yuan (US $) short of this evening" in the group to buy goods, everyone in advance or donated money, two hours to complete.
我们黄冈人从没有这么团结过！【梦轩：已愈新冠肺炎患者 】1月26日这两天，一直有难受的状态。
We Huanggang people have never been so united! "Dream Xuan: The new crown pneumonia patients" January 26 these two days, has been in a miserable state.
我是1月18日晚住进医院。
I was admitted to the hospital on the night of January 18.
20日开始，我出现呼吸困难、胸闷症状。
Starting on the 20th, I have breathing difficulties, chest tightness symptoms.
21日，我要靠一边吸氧一边勉强维持呼吸，完全不能翻身更不能起床。
On the 21st, I had to suck in oxygen while barely breathing, never turn over and never get up.
22日高烧并开始严重腹泻。
Fever 22 and began to have severe diarrhea.
但我还是尽量维持着一个好的心态。
But I try to keep a good attitude.
入住医院头几天，大家已经知道了武汉多人死亡的消息。
In the first few days of hospital stay, we have learned of the death of many people in Wuhan.
病房的几位病友也被恐惧笼罩，不是唉声叹气就是一声不发。
Several sick patients in the ward were also shrouded in fear, either sighing or not saying a word.
相比之下，我的心态相对比较平和。
In contrast, my mentality is relatively peaceful.
我跟大家聊天，想办法舒缓病房的气氛，希望她们心态乐观一些。
I chat with you, try to soothe the atmosphere in the ward, hope they are optimistic.
我也告诉大家，尽量想办法多吃饭，多喝水，这样才能加强营养吸收，增强自身免疫力。
I also told everyone, try to find ways to eat more, drink more water, so as to enhance the absorption of nutrients, enhance their immunity.
家里的年货：腊肉。
New Year's at home: bacon.
马亿 供图【马亿：浠水县汪岗镇，北京回乡白领】1月26日越来越多的村子和镇都被封闭，不准任何车辆出入，对本地的日常生活当然会有很大的影响。
It is indicated that more and more villages and towns in these area are closed to traffic which would certainly have a great impact on the daily life of these area.
就拿吃的来说，我家还算好的，年前爸妈从我家的小菜园摘回来很多青菜和萝卜，加上家里提前做好的一些腊鱼肉，所以暂时是没什么影响。
Take food, my family is good, my parents picked a lot of vegetables and turnips from my small garden, plus some meat cooked in advance, so temporarily no impact.
对于那些没有提前储备的人家来说，这两天恐怕有些难过。
I'm afraid these two days have been a little sad for those who don't have advance reserves.
还有倒垃圾的问题，街道上本来是有固定垃圾站，但是现在没人愿意出门，很多人家里的垃圾就堆在屋门外，没人来收。
There is the problem of emptying rubbish. There used to be a garbage dump on the street, but now no one wants to go out.
斜对面有一个小超市，过年本来是一年中生意最红火的时候。
There is a small supermarket diagonally opposite, the New Year was supposed to be the most prosperous time of the year.
店铺里面的各种拜年礼盒、烟酒、烟花爆竹都会从屋内摆到屋外。
All kinds of New Year's Eve gift boxes, cigarettes and alcohol, fireworks will be put out of the house.
但是今年，小超市也没有开门。
But this year, the small supermarket didn't open either.
像这样的店铺，基本都是做熟人生意，年前进的货有很大一部分都是为了应对春节的需求。
Such shops, are basically do acquaintances business, the forward of the goods are a large part of the Spring Festival in response to the demand.
就拿爆竹来说，在我们这一条街道和垸里一直就有相互串门的习俗，大年初一的早上要到所有街上和垸里的人家里拜年，被拜年的人家就得放一小挂鞭炮。
For example, firecrackers, in our street and land has been a cross-door customs, New Year's Day morning to all street and people's homes, people are on the New Year's Day, people have to put a small hanging firecracker.
据我之前每年跟我妈到小超市抬鞭炮的经验，每年大年初一一天，我家消耗的鞭炮应该在200挂左右。
According to my previous experience of carrying firecrackers to a small supermarket with my mother every year, on the first day of the New Year, my consumption of firecrackers should be about 200 hanging.
但今年取消了大年初一的串门，我家几乎没有买鞭炮。
But this year cancelled the first day of New Year's visit, my family almost did not buy firecrackers.
但是进货总是要提前的。
But the purchase is always ahead of time.
按照我家的这个数字大概可以估计，小超市肯定是进了不少类似的货。
According to this number of my family can be estimated, the small supermarket must be a lot of similar goods.
如果“封城”一直到元宵节之后，哪怕提前一点儿开放，想象得到，这么多年货肯定是不容易全数卖出的。
If the "closed city" until after the Lantern Festival, even a little bit in advance of the opening, imagine, so many years of goods are not easy to sell.
【李颖霞：山东支援黄冈护师】1月26日作为山东省首批支援武汉医疗队成员之一，我跟随团队于2020年1月25日乘专机到武汉，又经过两个小时的车程，凌晨三点到达我们支援的目的地黄冈市。
As one of the first members of Shandong Provincial Support Team for Wuhan on January 26, I took a special plane to Wuhan on January 25, 2020, and two hours' drive to Huanggang, our support destination.
作为重灾区，黄冈急需医务人员的支援。
As a disaster area, Huang Gang urgently needs medical support.
简单睡了几个小时。
Slept for a few hours.
今天任务比较琐碎，建群、分组，发培训资料、自学材料，整理防护用品等。
Today's task is more trivial, set up groups, distribution of training materials, self-learning materials, finishing protective equipment.
我们医疗队成员共135人，分为普通患者救治组和重症患者救治组，我属于重症组。
There were 135 members of our medical team, divided into general patient treatment group and severe patients treatment group, I belong to the severe group.
可能面临的是最危重、工作量最大的患者。
It is likely to be the most critical and work-intensive patients.
作为一名曾经在重症医学科工作了12年的重症专科护士，我有信心有把握把病人护理好！下午各组组长开会，跟黄冈市卫计委负责人见面，对工作进行了分配，我们被分配在黄冈市传染病医院，估计也是黄冈市收治肺炎病人最多最重的医院。
As an intensive care specialist who has worked in intensive care for 12 years, I am confident that I can take good care of my patients! In the afternoon, the group leaders met with the head of the Huanggang Municipal Health and Planning Commission and distributed the work.
自从报名来湖北那一刻起，说实在的，我心里一直没有犹豫、担心、害怕过，因为我知道，作为一名工作25年的老护理人，我有信心、有能力、有专业的知识来做好自我防护，同时能够护理好每一位病人。
From the moment I signed up for Hubei, I had not hesitated, worried or feared, for I knew that, as an old caregiver for 25 years, I had the confidence, ability and professional knowledge to protect myself and care for every patient.
相信我们很快就会打赢这场没有硝烟的战争。
I believe we shall soon win the war without the smoke.
吃完午饭我爸想出去透透气，被我妈拉住了。
After lunch my father wanted to go out for a breath and was held by my mother.
（文中梦轩为化名）【未完待续】(本文来自澎湃新闻，更多原创资讯请下载“澎湃新闻”APP)。
This article comes from Peng Pai News. For more original information, please download the "Peng Pai News" APP.
【专题】防控新冠肺炎。
Topic: Prevention and control of new crown pneumonia.
连载·黄冈日记⑥｜大年初一被确诊，我住进了爸爸隔壁病房。
LianZai Huang Gang Diary: On the first day of the Lunar New Year, I was admitted to my father's room next door.
连载·黄冈日记⑤｜除夕夜值班护士：年夜饭是一碗泡面。
The Chinese New Year's Eve duty nurse: Lunar New Year's Eve is a bowl of noodles.
连载·黄冈日记④｜闲置多年的传染病医院紧急启用。
LianZai Huang Gang's diary, the infectious disease hospital that had been idle for years, went into emergency use.
连载·黄冈日记③｜两位患者：咳嗽多日都当感冒在应付。
less than one + less + less + less than + less than +: Coughing has been coping with a cold for days.
连载·黄冈日记②｜科室住满新冠肺炎患者，5位同事被感染。
Liu Zai Huang Gang's diary, full of patients with Newly crowned Pneumonia, 5 colleagues were infected.
责任编辑：储静伟图片编辑：施佳慧校对：栾梦。
Responsible Editor: Shu Jingwei Photo Editor: Shi Jiahui Proofread by Luan.
澎湃新闻报料：4009-20-4009  澎湃新闻，未经授权不得转载。
Pai news: 4009-20-4009 surging news, not allowed to reproduce without authorization.
关键词 >> 湖北黄冈 抗疫。
Key words & gt; & gt; Huanggang plague.
收藏。
Collection.
跟踪: 抗疫日记。
Tracking: Anti-epidemic diary.
相关推荐。
Relevant recommendations.
连载·黄冈日记⑨｜疫情改变了邻里关系：小区的人都认识了。
LianZai Huang Gang's diary has changed the neighborhood: the people there know each other.
报警、“封村”、募捐：一名黄冈村医的“战疫”。
Police, "village closure", fund-raising: a Huanggang village doctor "epidemic."
湖北黄冈抗疫一线医护人员优先评定职称晋升岗位。
First-line medical staff of Huanggang epidemic prevention in Huanggang Province are given priority.
评论（0）。
Comment (0).
热新闻。
Hot news.
一天。
One day.
三天。
Three days.
一周。
One week.
张文宏谈国际战疫②：英国群体免疫靠谱吗？中国继续严阵以待。
Zhang Wenhong talks about international epidemic: Is the immunity of the British community reliable? China continues to stand by.
3000多重症患者还在与死神惨烈搏斗，如何赢得时间？。
More than 3,000 seriously ill people are still struggling with death, how to win time?
16日起所有入境进京人员原则上集中观察14天，费用自理。
From 16 days all incoming personnel in Beijing in principle observe centrally for 14 days at their own cost.
约翰斯·霍普金斯大学：美国新冠肺炎病例数突破3000。
Johns Hopkins University: The number of new cases of pneumonia in the United States exceeds 3000.
英式群体免疫还是中式积极防控？英团队：武汉封城传播少一半。
British mass immunization or Chinese active prevention and control? British team: Wuhan sealed the city spread less than half.
联合研究发现：儿童新冠病毒感染在疫情初期已发生。
A joint study found that children were infected with the new crown virus in the early stages of the epidemic.
世界卫生组织：全球新冠肺炎确诊病例累计已超15万例。
World Health Organization: The cumulative number of confirmed cases of new crown pneumonia worldwide has exceeded 150,000.
意大利新增新冠肺炎确诊病例3590例，新增死亡368例。
There were 3,590 confirmed cases of new crown pneumonia and 368 new deaths in Italy.
国家卫健委：昨日新增新冠肺炎确诊病例16例，湖北4例。
National Fitness and Health Commission: New cases of New Crown Pneumonia confirmed yesterday 16 cases, Hubei 4 cases.
加州大学专家：美错过遏制期，新冠病毒可能感染4至7成人口。
University of California Experts: The United States missed containment and the new crown virus could infect 4 to 7 percent of the population.
国家卫健委：昨日新增确诊11例，其中湖北4例境外输入7例。
National Fitness Commission: 11 new cases were diagnosed yesterday, including 4 cases of foreign importation in Hubei province.
张文宏谈国际战疫②：英国群体免疫靠谱吗？中国继续严阵以待。
Zhang Wenhong talks about international epidemic: Is the immunity of the British community reliable? China continues to stand by.
外媒：巴西总统博索纳罗的新冠病毒检测呈阳性。
Intermediary: Brazilian President Jose Antonio Bosonaro tested positive for the new crown virus.
3000多重症患者还在与死神惨烈搏斗，如何赢得时间？。
More than 3,000 seriously ill people are still struggling with death, how to win time?
仝小林院士：清肺排毒汤总有效率97%，无一例患者由轻转重。
The total effective rate of Qingfei detoxification soup is 97%, no patients from light to heavy.
央行3月16日定向降准，释放长期资金5500亿元。
The central bank targeted a cut on March 16, releasing 550 billion yuan in long-term funds.
16日起所有入境进京人员原则上集中观察14天，费用自理。
From 16 days all incoming personnel in Beijing in principle observe centrally for 14 days at their own cost.
美国进入紧急状态，美股暴涨超9%：金融危机以来最大日涨幅。
U.S. stocks surged by more than 9%: their biggest daily gain since the financial crisis.
外媒：西班牙政府宣布将封锁全国，3月16日上午8点生效。
Intermediary: The Spanish government has announced a nationwide blockade, which will take effect at 8 a.m. on March 16.
巴西总统博索纳罗在个人社交媒体账号称，病毒检测呈阴性。
Brazil's president, Jose Antonio Bossano, said on his personal social media account that the virus was negative.
习近平总书记关切事｜携手下好一盘棋，京津冀战“疫”进行时。
Xi Jinping, the general secretary, was concerned about the plague when he joined hands to fight it.
这场人民战争统帅心中的三个“第一”。
The three "first" in the minds of the commander of the people's war.
亲赴抗击疫情主战场，习近平对这几类人说出心里话。
Xi spoke to these categories of people when he went to fight the main battleground of the epidemic.
国家卫健委：昨日新增确诊11例，其中湖北4例境外输入7例。
National Fitness Commission: 11 new cases were diagnosed yesterday, including 4 cases of foreign importation in Hubei province.
湖北潜江：26号通告取消，继续实行严格交通管制、人员管控。
Hubei buried river: Notice 26 canceled, continue to implement strict traffic control, personnel control.
曾手写遗书，感染新冠病毒的武汉大四女孩毕业前上“生死课”。
Once handwritten will, infected with the new crown virus Wuhan four-year-old girl before graduation "life and death lessons."
习近平抵武汉考察新冠肺炎疫情防控工作。
Xi arrived in Wuhan to investigate the prevention and control of the disease.
张文宏谈国际战疫②：英国群体免疫靠谱吗？中国继续严阵以待。
Zhang Wenhong talks about international epidemic: Is the immunity of the British community reliable? China continues to stand by.
美股熔断！开盘后全线暴跌超7%，三大股指暂停交易15分钟。
U.S. stocks meltdown! After the opening line plummeted by more than 7%, the three main stock indexes suspended trading for 15 minutes.
美国疾控中心主任：部分死于流感病例可能实患新冠肺炎。
CDC Director: Some deaths from influenza may actually result in new crown pneumonia.
澎湃新闻APP下载。
Pai news APP download.
热话题。
Hot topics.
一天。
One day.
三天。
Three days.
一周。
One week.
我是国研院欧洲所所长崔洪建,关于疫情下欧洲各国的关系走向,问吧!。
I'm Cui Hongjian, director of the European Institute of Studies and Research.
我在哥大主修新闻学,纽约地方政府是如何应对疫情的,问吧!。
I'm taking a journalism major as a New York City local government to deal with the epidemic.
疫情面前，你家亲戚让你操心了吗？。
Did your relatives worry you about the outbreak?
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
我是渣打中国首席投资策略师王昕杰,多国股市暴跌熔断意味着什么,问我吧!。
I am Wang Xinjie, chief investment strategist at Standard Chartered China. What does a collapse of a multinational stock market mean? Ask me.
我是渣打中国首席投资策略师王昕杰,多国股市暴跌熔断意味着什么,问我吧!。
I am Wang Xinjie, chief investment strategist at Standard Chartered China. What does a collapse of a multinational stock market mean? Ask me.
我是国研院欧洲所所长崔洪建,关于疫情下欧洲各国的关系走向,问吧!。
I'm Cui Hongjian, director of the European Institute of Studies and Research.
疫情面前，你家亲戚让你操心了吗？。
Did your relatives worry you about the outbreak?
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
我是上海对外经贸大学教授李辉文,关于简单经济学,问吧!。
I am Li Peiwen, professor of Shanghai Foreign Trade University, asking about simple economics.
我旅居意大利17年,疫情下当地民众生活什么样,问我吧!。
I've been living in Italy for 17 years. Ask me what life is like for the local population.
疫情面前，你家亲戚让你操心了吗？。
Did your relatives worry you about the outbreak?
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
我是国研院欧洲所所长崔洪建,关于疫情下欧洲各国的关系走向,问吧!。
I'm Cui Hongjian, director of the European Institute of Studies and Research.
我是上海对外经贸大学教授李辉文,关于简单经济学,问吧!。
I am Li Peiwen, professor of Shanghai Foreign Trade University, asking about simple economics.
热门推荐。
Hot recommendations.
习近平就意大利发生新冠肺炎疫情向意大利总统致慰问电。
Xi sent a message of condolence to Italy's president over the outbreak of pneumonia in Italy.
湖北新增确诊病例数连续两日保持在个位数，均来自于武汉市。
The number of newly confirmed cases in Hubei province remained in single digits for two consecutive days.
美股三大指数高开超5%，德法英主要股指盘中均涨逾9％。
The top three US indexes were higher than 5 per cent, while German, French and British main indexes were up more than 9 per cent.
央行3月16日定向降准，释放长期资金5500亿元。
The central bank targeted a cut on March 16, releasing 550 billion yuan in long-term funds.
CA936航班乘客、机组人员相关防控措施公布。
CA936 Flight passengers, crew-related control measures announced.
var lbdHeight = $(".head_ad").height()+$(".head").height()+$(".main_rt").height()-260; //滑到体到顶部的高度。
var lbdLight = $(& quot; .head _ ad & quot;) .height () + $(& quot; .head & quot;) .height () + $(& quot; .main _ rt & quot;) .light (-260; / / sliding to top height.
var topHeight = parseInt($(window).scrollTop() + 1 + 70);  //浮动频道高度70。
var topLight = parseInt ($(window) .scrollTop (+ 1 + 70); / / floating channel height 70.
联系我们。
Contact us.
关于澎湃。
About the roar.
在澎湃工作。
Working in the roar.
联系我们。
Contact us.
版权声明。
Copyright statement.
隐私政策。
Privacy policy.
澎湃广告。
There was a roaring advertisement.
友情链接。
Links to friends.
澎湃新闻举报受理和处置办法。
Measures for handling and handling surging news reports.
严正声明。
Solemn declaration.
Copyright © 2014~2020 The Paper All rights reserved.上海东方报业有限公司 | 沪ICP证：沪B2-20170116 | 沪ICP备14003370号 | 互联网新闻信息服务许可证：31120170006。
Shanghai Oriental Daily News Ltd. & # 144; Shanghai ICP Certificate: Shanghai B2-20170116 & # 124; Shanghai ICP Readiness 14003370 & # 124; Internet News Information Service license: 31120170006.
沪公网安备 31010602000299号。
Shanghai Public Net 3101 602000299.
站长统计。
Station master statistics.
c={//监测配置。
c = {/ monitoring configuration.
UA:"UA-thepaper-000002", //客户项目编号,由系统生成。
UA: & quot; UA-theaper-000002 & quot;, / or customer project number, generated by the system.
URL:'//file.thepaper.cn/www/v3/js/iwt-min.js'//iwt.js的URL位置，请客户自行托管JS文件，只需修改此值。
URL::: / / file.thepaper.cn / www.v3 / js / iwt-min.js & apos; / / iwt.js URL location; and / or iwt.js, have its client manage a JS file by yourself, simply modify this value.
//多视频。
/ / Multi-Video.
