620→0，历时44天。
620 [00: 50.00] It lasted 44 days.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻记者 汤琪 发自武汉在拥有超过40家三级医院的湖北武汉，一家远城区的中医院本来并不太起眼。
Tangqi, a journalist based in Wuhan, Hubei province, which has more than 40 level-III hospitals, is a far-flung Chinese hospital.
位于武汉市纸坊大街上的江夏区中医医院，距离地铁七号线的终点站已不算太远，它距离新冠肺炎疫情风暴中心的汉口华南海鲜市场，有足足40公里的车程。
The Jiangxia TCM Hospital, located on the main thoroughfare of Paper Square in Wuhan, is not too far from the terminus of Line 7. It is 40 kilometers away from the Hankou South China Seafood Market at the epicentre of the New Crown Pneumonia Storm.
武汉市江夏区中医医院。
Wuhan Jiangxia District TCM Hospital.
澎湃新闻记者汤琪 图1月下旬，新冠肺炎疫情蔓延速度之快超乎预期，这家平日不太起眼的二级医院被推至了抗疫最前线。
The normally unglamorous Level II hospital was pushed to the forefront of the battle against the disease in late January, when the new crown pneumonia epidemic spread faster than expected.
始建于上世纪80年代的江夏区中医医院仍保留着当年的模样，住院楼不高且陈旧。
Established in the 1980s, Jiangxia District TCM Hospital is still the same as it was in the past, the hospital building is not high and old.
但即使硬件条件有限，一声令下，它还是成为第三批收治新冠肺炎患者的定点医院之一。
But even with limited hardware, it became one of the third designated hospitals to treat patients with pneumonia.
自1月23日以来，该院共接诊新冠肺炎患者620人，直至3月6日下午患者清零。
Since January 23, 620 new cases of pneumonia have been admitted until the afternoon of March 6.
3月9日，经过全面消杀和调整的江夏区中医医院迎来恢复正常医疗服务的第一天，这也是首个从新冠肺炎定点医院恢复正常的中医医院。
On March 9, the first day of normal medical services was opened at Jiangxia TCM Hospital, the first Chinese medicine hospital to return to normal from the Hospital for New Crown Pneumonia.
从这天起，该院多个科室恢复正常门诊，住院部也开始收治普通病人。
Since that date, the hospital's various departments have returned to normal clinics and the inpatient department has begun to treat ordinary patients.
“第一声令下成为定点医院时，还很兴奋，有光荣感，感觉国家把我们用上了，但现实也是很残酷。
"The first order to become a designated hospital, but also very excited, a sense of glory, the feeling that the country used us, but the reality is very cruel.
”作为该院的资深医生，朱少华历经了前期的“乱仗”和逐渐趋于平稳的整个抗疫过程。
Zhu Shaohua, the hospital's senior doctor, has gone through a period of "chaos" and a gradual stabilization of the entire anti-epidemic process.
到了第二声令下，医院明确要恢复正常医疗服务时，他感到“如释重负”。
By the second order, he felt "relieved" as the hospital made it clear that normal medical care would be restored.
“风险肯定还是存在的。
"There is certainly a risk.
”江夏区中医医院副院长韩劲松近日在接受澎湃新闻采访时坦言，恢复正常医疗服务后，仍要防止交叉感染的可能。
Han Jinsong, vice-president of Jiangxia TCM Hospital, admitted in a recent interview with reporters that re-establishing normal medical services would still prevent cross-infection.
目前，参与过抗疫一线的医护人员已做完CT检查，核酸检测均为阴性。
At present, the first line of anti-epidemic medical personnel have done CT examination, nucleic acid testing is negative.
历时44天，江夏区中医医院总算跨过了它建院近40年来最大的一道坎。
In 44 days, Jiangxia District TCM Hospital has finally crossed its hospital in the past 40 years the largest bar.
始料未及的疫情到明年，江夏区中医医院心血管内分泌科主任朱少华就要退休了。
Anticipated Epidemic Disease By next year, Zhu Shaohua, director of the Cardiovascular Endocrinology Department of the Chinese Medicine Hospital in Jiangxia, will retire.
已经59岁的他，一生经历了三次让他印象深刻的疫情。
Already 59 years old, he has experienced three impressive outbreaks of disease in his life.
第一次发生在30多年前，朱少华刚刚结婚不久，孩子也才刚出生。
The first one took place more than 30 years ago. Zhu Shaohua had just been married and his child had just been born.
当时他被派到江夏的一个村子里做流行病调查，当时村里大概100户，有八九十个人出现不明原因发烧。
He was sent to a village in Jiangxia to do epidemiological investigation, when about 100 families in the village, 890 people have an unexplained fever.
调查15天之后，确定是水污染引起感染的伤寒病。
Fifteen days after the investigation, it was determined that the water pollution caused the infection.
第二次是2003年的“非典”，朱少华还是原江夏区卫生局专家组组长。
The second was "SARS" in 2003, Zhu Shaohua was also the former head of the Jiangxia District Health Bureau expert group.
虽然“非典”时期江夏没有一例确诊病例，但他当时也跑遍了江夏所有乡镇做排查，最晚一天工作到凌晨两三点。
Although there was no confirmed case in Jiangxia during the SARS period, he also travelled all over Jiangxia township to do screening, working until 2 or 3 in the morning at the latest.
第三次，就是新冠肺炎疫情。
Third, the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia.
1月23日，武汉“封城”第一天，江夏区中医医院开始接收第一批新冠肺炎患者，朱少华作为发热二区的主任奔赴疫情一线，他也是该院六个发热病区中年纪最长的主任，副院长韩劲松亲切且尊敬地称他“老朱”。
On January 23, the first day of Wuhan "closed city," Jiangxia District TCM Hospital began to receive the first patients with new crown pneumonia, Zhu Shaohua as the director of fever zone 2 to the frontline, he is also the hospital's six febrile disease area, the oldest director, Vice President Han Jinsong affectionately and respectfully called him "Lao Zhu.
患者转运。
Transshipment of patients.
受访者供图“我一生基本上十几年就遇一道坎啊。
Interviewee: "My life basically more than a decade to meet a bar ah.
”老朱对澎湃新闻感慨。
"Lao Zhu lamented the news.
40多岁的韩劲松也是经历过“非典”的人，但这一次，他还是感到新冠肺炎的传播速度令人始料未及。
Han Jinsong, a 40-year-old fellow who has also experienced SARS, this time found the spread of the disease to be unexpected.
早在成为定点医院以前，作为该院业务副院长的韩劲松已经对疫情有所警觉。
Long before becoming a designated hospital, Han Jinsong, the hospital's vice-president of operations, was alert to the outbreak.
当时，韩劲松已经察觉到江夏区中医医院接收到的发热病人越来越多。
At the time, Han Jinsong had detected an increase in the number of febrile patients received by the TCM hospital in Jiangxia.
“很明显，当时不明原因的发热病人在增多。
"Clearly, the number of unexplained fevers was on the rise.
按照往年，到腊月二十几号，不是特殊状况，病人一般不会来就医的。
In accordance with the past year, to the twenty, is not a special situation, patients will not generally come to see a doctor.
”他说。
'he said.
1月18日前后，韩劲松与院长熊侃商量后决定，把原来的泌尿外科和普通外科合并，腾出泌尿外科作为隔离病区。
Around January 18, Han Jinsong and Dean Kan Kan decided to merge the original urology and general surgery, freeing up urology as an isolated area.
“那个时候只是做了一个初步的措施，没有像后来的‘战时’状态。
"At that time only a preliminary step was taken, and there was no 'wartime' state like later.
”韩劲松告诉澎湃新闻，他1月11日从市卫健委开完会回来后的几天时间里，让医院采购了四五千个N95口罩，外加原先医院储备的一些防护物资，成为了这家医院成为定点后头两三天的全部物资。
Han told Peng Pai News that in the days following his return from a meeting with the municipal health committee on January 11, the hospital had procured four to five thousand N95 face masks, plus some of the protective equipment from the hospital's original reserve, making it the only material available for the first two or three days after the hospital was targeted.
“当时我们有一些预备，但谁也不知道最后发展到现在这样。
"We had some preparations, but no one knew how it would turn out.
如果我当时知道（疫情发展到今天的状况），当时能进多少（口罩）就进多少。
If I had known how much [masks] could have been put in then [the epidemic reached where it is today].
”他坦言。
'he confessed.
老朱的许多同学和朋友都在武汉中心城区的大医院上班，他听说，一些医院的医护人员从急诊到呼吸科都是“全防护”，当时他还觉得疫情离自己很遥远。
Many of Lao Zhu's classmates and friends work at the main hospital in central Wuhan, where he was told that some hospital staff were "fully protected" from the emergency department to the respiratory department.
1月23日，当韩劲松从上级部门得知江夏区中医医院要作为第三批新冠肺炎定点医院后，全院就把原有的其他患者转了出去。
On January 23, when Han Jinsong learned from his superiors that the Jiangxi TCM Hospital was to be the third batch of the New Crown Pneumonia Hospital, the hospital transferred other patients.
当天下午，第一批新冠肺炎患者就转入。
That afternoon, the first new cases of pneumonia were admitted.
来去之间，老朱人生的第三道坎也正式显现在他面前。
Between the coming and going, Lao Zhu's third Dokan also appeared in front of him.
加强院感“止损”武汉市江夏区中医医院始建于1981年，是一所中医特色鲜明、集中西医诊疗和教学为一体的“二级甲等中医院”，现为湖北中医药大学教学医院，湖北省中西医结合医院医联体医院。
Established in 1981, Wuhan Jiangxia District Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) is a "Level 2 Chinese Medicine Hospital" with distinctive features of traditional Chinese medicine, focusing on western medicine diagnosis and treatment.
老朱所在的发热二区刚开科就收满了63个患者，这让原本按照医务配比只能收治41人的病区持续超负荷运转。
Lao Zhu's feverish zone 2 was filled with 63 patients at the start of the school year, leaving 41 patients in an area that otherwise would have been treated for a medical mix.
开科当天，他给每个患者写病历就写到第二天凌晨三点钟。
On Kaiko's day, he wrote medical records for each patient until three in the morning.
“我们当时也就戴一个口罩，按道理应该4个小时一换，但当初的物资紧缺，一个口罩一戴就是12个小时，口罩外层都被水汽糊住了，我们当时的防护服一穿就很容易破。
"We were wearing a mask, which was supposed to change every four hours, but we were running out of supplies. We had a 12-hour mask, it was steamy and our protective clothing was easily broken.
”这样的场景让有数十年行医经验的老朱都有些害怕，他觉得当时“真的是在硬挺”。
Such a scenario scares old Zhu, who has been practicing medicine for decades, who feels "really stiff."
1月25日，发热五区也正式开科，接近40张床位的病区一开科就住满了患者。
On January 25, Fever Region V was officially opened, filling the nearly 40-bed ward as soon as it opened.
江夏区中医医院脾胃科副主任韩建新任发热五区主任，他告诉澎湃新闻，刚开科的时候，医护人员的防护并没有真正达到传染病院感的要求，直到1月27日江苏省医疗队的到来。
Han Jian, deputy director of spleen and stomach department at Jiangxia TCM, told the news that when the hospital opened, the protection of medical staff did not really meet the requirements of infectious disease hospital until the arrival of the Jiangsu medical team on January 27.
江苏省中医院医疗队队长、江苏省医疗队支援江夏区中医医院总负责人王谦注意到，由于江夏区中医院硬件条件相对不足，队员们与当地工作人员首先需要做的，就是根据医院现有建筑格局，因地制宜地优化和完善“三区两通道”建设。
Wang Qian, head of the Jiangsu Provincial Medical Team and head of the Jiangsu Provincial Medical Team, noted that due to the relative shortage of hardware in the traditional Chinese medicine hospital in Jiangxia, the first thing the team members and local staff needed to do was to optimize and improve the construction of the "three areas, two lanes" according to the existing building pattern of the hospital.
江苏医疗队提出了在院内用集装箱改装成医护人员通道的建议，如此一来，医护人员出病区后可以在集装箱内完成消杀更衣。
Jiangsu Medical Team suggested that the hospital use containers to be converted into medical personnel passageways, so that medical personnel can be out of the sick area can be completed in the container.
接到建议后，韩劲松面对的是一个要在已经“封城”的情况下尽快找到集装箱和工人施工的大难题，他想尽一切办法在两天之内完成了调配和建设工作。
After receiving the advice, Han Jinsong was faced with the big problem of finding containers and workers as quickly as possible while the city was closed, and he did everything in his power to complete the deployment and construction in two days.
从提出设想到该院的“三区两通道”优化项目终于完成，共经过了6个昼夜“苦战”。
From the idea to the hospital's "three regions, two corridors" optimization project was finally completed, after a total of six days and nights of "bitter fighting."
“不能因为条件差就不去做。
"One cannot refuse to do it because of the bad conditions.
”韩劲松对澎湃新闻表示，江夏区中医医院平常有400张床位，多的时候可以收治超过400位住院的患者，但在疫情防控期间，该院能够开放的床位仅是260张，有些空间因为改通道占用了。
Han Jinsong told the news that the hospital, which normally has 400 beds and can accommodate more than 400 hospitalized patients in many cases, had only 260 beds and some space was occupied during the epidemic.
“三区两通道”和防护措施的优化也大大降低了该院医护人员感染的情况。
The optimization of "Three Areas, Two Channels" and protective measures also greatly reduced the infection of the hospital's medical staff.
在成为定点医院前，江夏区中医院共发现10名医护人员感染，而在江苏医疗队的进驻和帮助下，此后实现了医护人员“零感染”。
Before becoming a designated hospital, 10 medical staff were found to be infected by the TCM in Jiangxia District, and with the help of the Jiangsu Medical Team, the "zero infection" of medical staff was realized.
江夏区中医医院部分医护人员合影。
Photographs of some medical staff of Jiangxia TCM Hospital.
受访者供图救死扶伤从“心”开始紧张的情绪和氛围，前期一直在病房里蔓延。
Respondents were trying to save lives from the "heart" from the tense mood and atmosphere, the early days have been spreading in the ward.
“这个病我治不好了，这回死定了。
"I can't cure it. I'm dead this time.
”一位情绪波动特别大的患者曾直接和医生提出了轻生的念头，让韩建新如今回想起来仍记忆犹新。
A particularly volatile patient had put the idea directly to his doctor, and Han Jianxin is still fresh in his mind.
他得知情况后，立刻要发热五区护士长高俊特别关注这位患者。
He learned of the situation, immediately want to fever five district nurse Gao Jun pay special attention to this patient.
“那段时间我就经常去看他吃没吃饭，吃没吃药，每天跟他和他同房的患者说些鼓励的话，使他们能够有信心去战胜这个疾病。
"I used to go to see him eat or not, eat or take medicine, and say words of encouragement every day to him and his roommates so that they could have confidence in overcoming the disease.
”疫情期间，高俊在负责协调整个发热五区护士工作的同时，更多的都是在做患者的心理建设、安慰和劝导工作。
During the outbreak, Gao Jun coordinated the work of nurses throughout the five-district fever zone, while doing more psychological construction, comfort and persuasion.
她大多数时间都在病房里穿梭，每隔三天左右，会挨个去病房询问患者生活上需要些什么物资，想办法帮他们去买。
She spends most of her time in the hospital room. Every three days or so, she goes to the ward and asks the patients what they need in their lives and tries to help them buy them.
等到买回来之后，患者再通过微信把钱转付给高俊。
After buying it back, the patient sent the money to Gao Jun by micromail.
但其中就有一些年长的患者并不会使用微信转账，他们想直接给护士现金。
But some of the older patients don't use microphone transfers, and they want to give cash directly to nurses.
“对不起，我不能收现金。
"I'm sorry, I can't accept cash.
”高俊对其中一位患者说。
"Gao Jun told one of the patients.
“那我没有微信啊。
'Then I have no letter.
”老人当时很着急。
"The old man was worried.
高俊最终没有收这些老人的钱，但还是会帮他们买一些日用品。
Gao Jun did not eventually take the money from the old people, but he would still help them buy some daily necessities.
她记得很清楚，当时病房里有一位爷爷，他第一次找高俊帮忙买了东西之后，因为没办法用手机转钱，就再也没让她买过，但高俊每次都会问他需不需要什么，他又坚决不肯要。
She remembered clearly that there was a grandpa in the ward. After he first got Gao Jun to help him buy things, he never let her buy anything because he could not transfer money on his mobile phone.
后来这位爷爷的纸用完了，实在没有办法就在另外一位护士值班的时候登记了他的需求。
Then the grandfather ran out of paper and had no choice but to register his needs while the other nurse was on duty.
高俊一看到他的名字，就对同事说，不要问这个爷爷要钱，直接把纸给他就行了。
When Gao Ju saw his name, he said to his colleague, "Don't ask the grandfather for money. Just give him the paper."
“如果我再遇上你们，我会把钱给你们的。
"If I were to meet you again, I would give you the money.
”——这位爷爷出院的时候，对高俊和她的同事留下了这样一句话，至今让护士们倍感欣慰。
When he was discharged from hospital, he left a message to Gao Jun and her colleagues that has comforted nurses so far.
与患者的沟通交流，高俊都习惯再靠近一些。
Communicate with the patient, Gao Jun is used to a little closer.
她告诉澎湃新闻，她会经常去拍拍患者的肩膀，或者拉起患者的手，让他们感受到自己没有被人嫌弃。
She told the roar news that she would often pat patients on the shoulder or pull their hands to make them feel unloved.
“你如果说隔得很远和患者说话，他们是会感觉不舒服的，患者都是很敏感的。
"If you talk to a patient at a great distance, they feel uncomfortable and the patient is very sensitive.
”在高俊的病区内还有一位患者，刚住进来的时候症状比较重，说话都有点喘。
"There was also a patient in Gao Jun's ward who had severe symptoms when he first came in and was wheezing to speak.
当时也是因为病情的原因，基本上每天都只吃几口饭，有时候甚至不吃。
At that time, also because of the illness, basically a few mouthfuls a day, sometimes even do not eat.
“我就一直关注他，每天跟他交流，慢慢平复他的情绪。
"I've been following him, talking to him every day, trying to calm him down.
”高俊回忆道，有一次，她对这位患者说，“你要是真的不想吃盒饭，我就喂你吃。
"Once, she told the patient," If you really don't want a boxed lunch, I'll feed it to you.
”说完，这位患者的眼泪“哗”地流了下来。
"With that, the patient's tears began to flow.
从那之后，这位患者开始尽可能把盒饭都吃完，病情也慢慢好转，直至出院。
From then on, the patient began to eat as much as he could, slowly improving until he was discharged from the hospital.
两声令下，两种心情1月23日，一声令下，江夏区中医医院成为新冠肺炎定点医院。
Two orders, two mood January 23, a decree, Jiangxia District TCM Hospital into the new crown pneumonia designated hospital.
3月初，又是一声令下，该院被要求尽快恢复正常医疗服务。
In early March, the hospital was again ordered to resume normal medical services as soon as possible.
3月6日下午6点，江夏区中医医院住院部前，5台120救护车一字排开，缓缓驶离。
March 6 at 6 p.m., Jiangxia District Hospital in front of the hospital, 5 120 ambulances line up, slowly drive away.
当天，该院最后18名新冠肺炎患者转院到江夏区第一人民医院，意味着江夏区中医医院新冠肺炎患者清零。
On the same day, the hospital's last 18 patients with Newly Coronary Pneumonia were transferred to the First People's Hospital of Jiangxia District.
3月6日下午6点，江夏区中医医院新冠肺炎患者清零。
At 6: 00 pm on March 6, the new crown pneumonia patients in Jiangxia District.
受访者供图老朱说，当他得知医院要恢复正常医疗服务时“如释重负”，当时大多数患者核酸检测都已经转阴了，他所负责的病区最后只剩5位患者。
The interviewee told Tu Laozhu that he was "relieved" to learn that the hospital was going to return to normal medical care, when most of the patients had their nucleic acid tested negative, leaving only five patients in his unit.
事实上，作为辐射整个江夏区的医疗机构，江夏区中医医院日常的救治工作安排得满满当当，特别是该院还有需要肾透析的患者，他们早已迫不及待渴望正常医疗服务的恢复。
In fact, as a medical institution that radiates the entire Jiangxia area, the traditional Chinese medicine hospital in Jiangxia is fully staffed, especially for patients in need of kidney dialysis, who are eager for the resumption of normal medical services.
“风险肯定还是存在的。
"There is certainly a risk.
”韩劲松对澎湃新闻坦言，恢复正常医疗服务后，仍要防止交叉感染的可能。
Han Jinsong told the stormy news that the resumption of normal medical services would still prevent the possibility of cross-infection.
“我们医院不再接诊发热病人，要尽可能控制院内感染，临床所有医护人员仍要积极做好个人防护，要对入院的患者进行筛查和甄别。
"Our hospital is no longer treating febrile patients, to control hospital infection as much as possible, clinical staff should still actively do a good job of personal protection, to screen and screen hospitalized patients.
”他说。
'he said.
对于调休的医护人员，医院会对他们进行适当的体检。
Medical staff on transfer are given appropriate medical check-ups.
“院内的CT、血常规、核酸检测对医护人员是开放的，他们可以去排查。
"The CT, routine, nucleic acid tests in the hospital are open to health care workers, who can check them out.
”韩劲松表示，在目前医疗资源紧缺的情况下让全院隔离休息14天，确实不现实，“战时状态”下，只有尽可能通过轮流调休的方式去调整。
Han Jinsong said it was unrealistic to allow the hospital to rest in isolation for 14 days at a time when medical resources were scarce, and that "wartime conditions" had to be adjusted by rotating vacations whenever possible.
目前，参与过抗疫一线的医护人员已做完CT检查，核酸检测均为阴性。
At present, the first line of anti-epidemic medical personnel have done CT examination, nucleic acid testing is negative.
3月9日，江夏区中医医院迎来恢复正常医疗服务的第一天。
March 9, Jiang Xia District Chinese Medicine Hospital ushered in the first day of normal medical services.
从这天开始，该院急诊科、骨科、耳鼻喉科、妇产科门诊、外科、口腔科、治未病科等科室均恢复正常门诊，住院部也开始收治普通病人。
Starting from that date, the departments of emergency, orthopaedics, otorhinolaryngology, gynaecology and obstetrics, surgery, stomatology and treatment of untreated patients have returned to normal clinics. The inpatient department has also started to treat ordinary patients.
在该院门诊大楼外，一排黄色的水马、警戒线围成了30米长的入院就诊通道，通道入口处摆放着预检分诊台，医生对进入门诊大厅的就诊患者逐一进行体温测量、登记身份证号码、住址、电话，详细询问患者流行病学史，筛查不漏一人。
Outside the hospital's outpatient building, a row of yellow water horses and pickets has been surrounded by a 30-metre (30-metre) access to the hospital, with a pre-screening desk at the entrance, where doctors take temperature measurements, register identity card numbers, address, telephone numbers, enquire about the patient's epidemiological history, and screen every person.
该院内，有一棵四季常青的树，当春天来临，这棵树已悄然冒出新芽。
In the courtyard, there is an evergreen tree, when spring comes, the tree has quietly sprouted new buds.
老朱现在还记得，一位重症患者出院时饱含泪水对他三次鞠躬，他称这个患者是“经历过生死的人”。
Lao Zhu now remembers one patient who bowed to him three times as he was discharged from hospital with tears in his eyes, calling the patient a "person who has lived and died."
老朱自己人生的第三道坎，也希望是在这个还未结束的春天跨了过去。
Lao Zhu's own life of the third Dokan, but also hope in this still unfinished spring crossed the past.
（实习生闫彩琪、夏梦洁、李娴对本文亦有贡献）本期编辑 邢潭推荐阅读。
(Yan-cai Qi, Xia Mengjie, Li Xian also contributed to this article) This issue editor Xingtan recommended reading.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
620→0，历时44天。
620 [00: 50.00] It lasted 44 days.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "620→0，历时44天";。
var msg _ title = & quot; 620; 0, with 44 days of service;;
var msg_desc = "这家平日不太起眼的二级医院被推至了抗疫最前线。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
";。
;; & quot;
title: '欧洲同行求助钟南山',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '硬核奶奶对不起，我们都瞒了您',。
A: I'm sorry, but we all told you & apos; & quot; at your service.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '71岁危重患者想放弃，医生做了个大胆的决定',。
At 71, a critically ill person who wanted to give up, the doctor made a bold decision to service.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
