一个盲人在武汉熬过的50天。
A blind man survived in Wuhan for 50 days.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻记者 明鹊黑暗中，张磊突然听到，小区的广播在喊：“封城了……”他感到惊讶，不知道发生了什么，也不知道意味着什么。
In the darkness of Peng Que, Zhang Lei suddenly heard the broadcast of the community shouting: "Sealed the city..." He was surprised, did not know what had happened, and did not know what it meant.
从4岁失明起，张磊在黑暗中生活了32年，他已经想不起，自己见过的红色，蓝色长什么模样。
Blind since the age of 4, Zhang Lei has lived in the dark for 32 years. He can't remember what he saw in red or blue.
他打小孤独，没上过学，跟着外婆在山里，“一个人静悄悄地长大”。
He played small lonely, did not go to school, followed the grandmother in the mountains, "a person quietly grow up."
十年前，他从老家潜江来到武汉，学按摩，帮人打工，攒了一点钱。
Ten years ago, he came to Wuhan from his hometown, studied massage, helped people to work, saved a little money.
直到封城的五天前，他交出5万元转让费，盘下了武昌的一家盲人按摩店。
Until five days before the closure of the city, he handed over 50,000 yuan in transfer fees and sold a massage shop for the blind in Wuchang.
店铺装修有点老旧，用手摸着墙纸都开裂了，但好在终于有自己的地方了，自己做自己的主。
The shop decorates a bit old, with the hand feel the wallpaper all cracked, but fortunately finally have their own place, to be their own master.
那一天，张磊还沉浸在喜悦中，憧憬着赚到钱后，早点找女朋友。
That day, Zhang Lei was still immersed in joy, hoping to earn money, find a girlfriend earlier.
所以，当封城的消息传来，他只是惊讶了片刻，心想最多半个月吧。
So when word of the siege came, he was surprised for a moment and thought of half a month at the most.
1月23日10时起，武汉城市公交、地铁、轮渡、长途客运暂停运营，机场、火车站离汉通道暂时关闭。
Since 1000 hours on January 23, Wuhan city buses, subways, ferries and long-distance passenger transport have been suspended, and the Han corridor at airports and railway stations has been temporarily closed.
澎湃新闻记者 郑朝渊 汤琪 周琦 图但十天、半个月、一个月……过去了。
Peng Pai journalist Zheng Chaoyuan Tangqi Zhou Qi Tut but ten days, half a month, a month... passed.
他整日窝在店里，把门关的严严实实，不轻易出门半步。
He stayed in the shop all day, shutting the door shut and not leaving the house easily.
白天，他至少十分钟洗一次手，用84消毒液拖地三到五遍，喝三到五瓶温热水；晚上，他每天洗澡，用白醋泡脚半个小时以上。
During the day he washed his hands at least once every ten minutes, swept the floor three to five times with disinfectant 84, drank three to five bottles of warm water, and at night he bathed and soaked his feet in white vinegar for more than half an hour.
从前，帮人做事，都是一群人住在一起。
Once upon a time, a group of people lived together to help people.
这是他第一次独自生活，各种具体而琐碎的麻烦不停地冒出来——封城的第37天，电磁炉“扑哧”一声烧坏了，家里的电也跳闸了；封城的第39天，卷帘门关不上了，他害怕得要命；封城的第47天和49天，冰箱隆隆作响，厨房水池又堵了……他手上没剩下什么钱，每天要交房租、水电费，还有买菜。
It was the first time he had ever lived alone, and every specific and trivial hassle arose - the thirty-seventh day of the city, when the electric cooker "squelched" and the electricity in the house tripped; the thirty-ninth day of the city closed, he was terrified; the refrigerator rumbled and the kitchen sink blocked again on days 47 and 49.
菜也不便宜，两颗包菜，三个莴笋就要四十多块，有挺长一段时间，他只吃素。
Food is not cheap, two cabbage, three lettuce shoots will be more than 40, for a long time, he only eat vegetarian.
还好，有志愿者在帮助他，给他送了菜，油，还送了口罩和酒精。
Fortunately, volunteers were helping him, bringing him food, oil, masks and alcohol.
他们帮他关好了卷帘门，修好电，甚至帮他带来了电磁炉和冰箱。
They shut the curtains for him, repaired the electricity, and even brought him the electric cooker and the refrigerator.
他想，疫情过后，一定要给志愿者免费做按摩。
He thinks, after epidemic situation, must give the volunteer free massage.
不过眼下，他正为要不要撑住这个按摩店而烦恼。
But for now, he's worried about whether to support the massage parlour or not.
3月7日，他身上只剩下几十块钱了，不得不向母亲求援。
On March 7, he had only a few dozen dollars left and had to ask his mother for help.
他一度想把店铺转让出去，可又想还是应当坚持，哪怕去打工赚一点房租钱。
At one point he wanted to transfer the store, but he thought he should stick to it, even if it meant working for a little rent.
封城的50天，他盼望热闹的武汉快点回来。
For 50 days, he hopes the busy Wuhan will come back soon.
以下是他的口述一1月18日，我交了5万块钱转让费，接手了一家按摩店。
The following is his dictation. On January 18th, I paid 50,000 yuan in transfer fees and took over a massage parlour.
它有80多平方米，7个按摩床，4个足疗床，每个月房租5200块钱，在武昌一小区里面。
It has more than 80 square meters, seven massage beds, four pedicure beds, and rents $5,200 a month in a small district of Wuchang.
我那几天很开心，终于有一家自己的按摩店了，想着赚钱后能早点找到女朋友。
I was happy for a few days and finally had my own massage parlour, hoping to find a girlfriend soon after making money.
我今年36岁，在按摩行业干了10年，此前一直帮人打工。
I am 36 years old and have been working in the massage industry for 10 years.
刚营业那几天，店里来的客人不多，一天有几个，都是做普通按摩，60块钱一人次。
Just opened a few days, the store to a few guests, a few a day, are doing ordinary massage, 60 yuan a person.
1月20日，店里帮忙的朋友回家过年了，我一个招呼不过来，于是干脆把店门关了，准备正月初八再营业。
January 20, the store to help friends home for the New Year, I can not say hello to come, so simply closed the store, ready to January 8 before business.
我没想到，三天后，整个武汉市封城了。
I did not expect that three days later, the whole city of Wuhan closed.
当天，我把按摩店关了后，去了汉阳一个朋友那里玩。
On that day, I closed the massage shop and went to play with a friend in Hanyang.
那时候，汉口已传出有肺炎了，但我们都觉得不严重。
By that time, there was pneumonia in Hankou, but we all felt it was not serious.
1月23日，我听说武汉封城了，也不以为意，当时觉得最多封半个月。
January 23, I heard that Wuhan closed the city, and I did not agree, at that time felt that the maximum half a month.
朋友叫我赶紧去买口罩，我说我有口罩，按摩戴的一次性口罩。
My friend told me to hurry to buy a mask, I said I have a mask, massage wearing a disposable mask.
对方说这种口罩没有用，要去买什么医用口罩，说这个肺病传染性强。
The other side says this kind of mask is useless, want to buy what medical mask, say this lung disease is infective.
我当时还是很怀疑，我说有这么严重吗？但还是去买了口罩。
I was still skeptical. Did I say it was so serious? But I bought a mask anyway.
我走到小区门口，一家药店一家药店地问，走到第三家药店时，店员说还有两包口罩，但他只能卖给我一包。
When I walked to the door of the neighborhood, a drugstore asked. When I got to the third store, the clerk said there were two bags of masks, but he could only sell me one.
我当时有点惊讶，但也没有说什么，于是就买了那一包。
I was a little surprised, but didn't say anything, so I bought the package.
普通的医用口罩，一包10个，10块钱一个，一共花了100块钱。
Ordinary medical masks, 10 in a pack, 10 yuan each, cost 100 yuan.
之后，我又去买了10瓶84消毒液，一共花了20块钱。
After that, I bought another 10 bottles of disinfectant 84, for a total cost of $20.
第二天，一个在汉口上班的朋友告诉我，他外出时看到路边一个人，走着走着，突然间倒了下去，就没有再站起来了。
The next day, a friend who works in Hankou told me that he saw a man walking along the road while he was out. Suddenly he fell down and didn't stand up any more.
我听到后被吓住了，之后再也不敢出门了，每天都关在按摩店里面。
I was scared when I heard that, and I didn't dare to go out again. I was shut in the massage parlour every day.
我不知道怎么办，也不知道怎么回事。
I don't know what to do, I don't know how.
一开始，我打市长热线，他们让我找残联；我打残联的电话，一直没有人接；我打社区的电话，他们让我不要出门，偶尔会帮我买菜。
At first, I called the mayor's hotline, and they asked me to call FIMITIC; I called the FIMITIC, but no one answered; I called the community, they told me not to go out, occasionally to help me buy food.
我自己也在网上买菜，手机装了软件，手摸到什么，手机就会“说”什么，比如发短信、微信都有声音。
I do my own shopping online, with software installed on my mobile phone, and whenever I touch anything my hand touches, my phone will say something like text messages or micromessages.
前几天，我在团购网站上买了两颗包菜，三个莴笋，花了40块钱，虽然比较贵，但还算新鲜。
A few days ago, I bought two cabbages, three lettuce shoots, and spent 40 yuan on the group purchase website.
我听说五花肉卖50多块钱一斤，一般的肉也要40多块钱一斤。
I've heard that pork costs more than 50 yuan a catty, and average meat costs more than 40 yuan a catty.
我自己在网上也“看”到过，更贵，不到半斤肉要四十多块钱。
I have seen it myself on the Internet, more expensive, less than half a kilo of meat cost more than forty dollars.
我不敢买肉，手里没剩什么钱，每天还要交房租、水电费。
I dare not buy meat, there is no money left in my hand, but also pay rent, utilities every day.
大年三十的晚上，我买了鱼丸、肉丸，花了十几块钱，一个人在店里煮着吃了。
On New Year's Eve, I bought fish balls, meatballs, spent a dozen yuan, a person cooked in the store to eat.
很长一段时间，我都只吃素，像和尚一样，但素菜也还很贵。
For a long time, I was a vegetarian, like a monk, but vegetarian dishes were also expensive.
后来我听新闻说，2月24日到3月10日，武汉有10元10样的菜卖，里面有土豆，青椒，大白菜……一共10斤素菜。
Later I heard the news that from February 24 to March 10, Wuhan has 10 yuan and 10 dishes, including potatoes, green pepper, Chinese cabbage... total 10 jin vegetarian dishes.
我打电话问社区，他们说没有，我估计是被抢完了。
I called the community and they said they didn't. I guess I was robbed.
我就买了58元的套餐，有大白菜，青椒，西红柿……不过有的菜也不太新鲜。
I bought 58 yuan package, there are cabbage, green pepper, tomatoes... but some dishes are not very fresh.
武汉一家超市，市民买菜。
Wuhan, a supermarket, the public to buy vegetables.
澎湃新闻记者 郑朝渊 汤琪 周琦 图日复一日，我不知道过了多久，也不知道还要持续多久。
Peng Pai journalist Zheng Chaoyuan Tangqi Zhou Qi day after day, I do not know how long, do not know how long it will last.
我经常焦虑地睡不着，每天晚上用手机听新闻、按摩资料、武侠小说，心情好时还会唱唱歌……通常凌晨两三点钟才入睡。
I often can't sleep anxiously. I listen to news, massage materials, swordsman novels on my mobile phone every night, and I sing when I am in a good mood.
前一段时间，我问房东，是不是能免一个月房租，他没有回复我。
Some time ago, I asked the landlord if I could waive the rent for one month. He did not reply to me.
二我老家在潜江市，离武汉只要一个小时的动车。
My hometown is in the city of Qianjiang. It is only an hour away from Wuhan.
四岁那一年，我出麻疹，之后发高烧，去医院打了青霉素，也没见好转。
Four-year-old that year, I had measles, then a high fever, to the hospital to hit penicillin, also did not see improvement.
我后来听父母说，当时我肿得像包子一样，我妈妈按农村方法用老鼠尾巴七搞八搞，我的眼球突然间凸了出来，很吓人。
I later heard from my parents that I was swollen like a baozi. My mother was doing this in a rural way with the tail of a mouse.
后来吃药打针，眼球才缩了回去，但我完全看不见了。
Then I took the medicine and the eyeball shrank back, but I couldn't see at all.
父母带我着去医院，医生说治一只眼睛要五六万，但家里没有这么多钱，去看了几次后就放弃了。
My parents took me to the hospital. The doctor told me to pay fifty or sixty thousand dollars for one eye, but the family had no so much money.
我失明前的记忆，现在全都没有了。
All my memories before I lost my sight are gone.
印象里，我一直生活在黑暗中。
I was under the impression that I had been living in darkness.
别人说红色，就是红色；别人说蓝色，就是蓝色。
When someone says red, it means red; when someone says blue, it means blue.
我好像都没有看见过，不知道颜色到底是什么样子，或者早已忘了它是什么样子。
I don't seem to have seen it, I don't know what it looks like, or I've forgotten what it looks like.
我从小孤独，没有朋友，没去过学校，一个人静悄悄地长大。
I was lonely since childhood, no friends, no school, a person quietly growing up.
我父母都是工人，家里还有两个姐姐，但父母上班比较忙，姐姐们也都要读书。
My parents are both workers and have two sisters, but my parents are busy at work and my sisters have to study.
我从小由外公外婆在山里带大，后来，他们来到我家里，带我去逛街、逛公园、散步……跟我讲他们遇到的事情。
I was brought up by my grandparents in the mountains, and then they came to my house, took me shopping, shopping, walking... told me what happened to them.
父母接连退休，我也很快成年了，慢慢开始想要独立。
My parents retired one after another, and I soon grew up and began to want to be independent.
像我们这些盲人，不能做其他事，只能学习按摩。
Blind people like us can't do anything but learn to massage.
我通过联系潜江市残联，跟着一位按摩师傅学了一年，主要学各种按摩手法，以及身体调理的知识。
I contacted the Qianjiang Disabled Association, followed by a massage master for a year, mainly to learn a variety of massage techniques, as well as body conditioning knowledge.
十年前，我离开潜江，一个人来到武汉，去了湖北省残联的一所按摩学校学习。
Ten years ago, I left the river, a person came to Wuhan, Hubei Province to study in a massage school.
1月26日，农历大年初二，武汉市汉阳区街道。
January 26, Lunar New Year's Day, Wuhan City, the streets of Hanyang.
中新社 图学校有32个学生，一开始我不太适应，不习惯跟陌生人交流，但很快跟同学都处得不错。
At first, I wasn't used to communicating with strangers, but I soon got along well with my classmates.
当初离开老家，对我来说，是下很大的决心。
It was a big decision for me to leave my hometown.
其实父母起初都不同意，但拗不过我，我很想到外面来看一看，也希望能在外面学习到更多。
In fact, parents at first do not agree with me, but I would like to see outside, I also hope to learn more outside.
我们在按摩学校学习小孩推拿，外科、妇科知识，以及针对乳腺增生的按摩方法等。
We learn about massage, surgery, gynaecology and massage for breast hyperplasia in massage school.
我在那里学了三个月后，又去了武汉市盲校待了六个月，也是学各种按摩知识。
After studying there for three months, I went to Wuhan Blind School for six months and learned all kinds of massage knowledge.
我从学校出来后，一直帮别人打工，包吃包住，两三千块钱一个月。
Since I came out of school, I have been helping others to work, package, two or three thousand dollars a month.
大部分时候，我都在武汉，从这一个区辗转到那一个区，中间也去过上海和苏州，但因为饮食不太习惯，没有去多久又回来了。
Most of the time, I was in Wuhan, from this district to that district, in the middle of Shanghai and Suzhou, but because the diet is not used to, did not go back very soon.
五年前，我跟女朋友分手后，没有再找到女朋友。
Five years ago, when I broke up with my girlfriend, I didn't find another girlfriend.
每次回家，父母都很着急，我也很着急。
Every time I go home, my parents are very anxious, I am very worried.
在按摩店打工待遇不高，一般很难找到女朋友。
Massage shops do not pay high wages, generally difficult to find girlfriends.
我年纪也越来越大了，想着不能老是帮人打工，于是就打算自己开一家按摩店。
As I got older and older, thinking I couldn't always help people, I decided to open my own massage parlour.
去年夏天，我一朋友告诉我，他老板想转让按摩店。
Last summer, a friend of mine told me that his boss wanted to transfer the massage parlour.
我之前来过他们店里，也跟老板沟通过，后来也来“看”过几次，觉得这边生意不错，装修虽然老了一点。
I have been to their store before, also communicate with the boss, and then came to "see" a few times, feel this business is good, decoration although a little old.
1月18日，我筹到了五万块钱后，把这家店接了下来。
On January 18th, having raised fifty thousand dollars, I took the shop down.
那时候，还有两个月房租才到期，剩下一些米和油，之前的老板全部送给了我。
At that time, there were two months left before the rent expired, leaving some rice and oil, all of which my former boss had given me.
我本来想着改变生活，却没想到陷入一个泥潭。
I was trying to change my life, but I didn't expect to get into a quagmire.
三我们有一个按摩群，里面有两百多人，全都是武汉的盲人。
Three, we have a massage group, there are more than 200 people, all blind Wuhan.
封城前，他们基本都回老家了，只有个别没有回去。
Before sealing the city, they basically returned home, only a few did not go back.
我因为刚接下按摩店，回去又要被父母催婚，所以当时没打算回去。
As I had just taken the massage parlour, I had to get married again, so I had no intention of going back.
现在真是后悔，人算不如天算。
Now really regret, people are worse than fate.
封城那一天，我父母打电话给我，叫我不要出门。
On the day of the siege, my parents called me and told me not to go out.
这一个多月以来，我一个人在按摩店里，每天都把门关得严严实实。
For more than a month, I was alone in the massage parlour, shutting the door tightly every day.
1月26日，武汉街道。
26 January, Wuhan Street.
中新社 图刚开始，我自己网上买东西，送货员打电话来说，小区门口封住了不让进。
At the beginning of the CNS map, I did some shopping on the net. The delivery man called and said that the entrance of the community was blocked.
我就让他跟社区的人说，我看不见，不方便出去，让他送到我家门口。
I told him to tell the community that I couldn't see, I couldn't get out and let him go to my door.
他们就会送进来，把菜放到我家门口，有时直接递给我，我打开门就会戴口罩。
They would bring it in, put it in front of my house, and sometimes hand it directly to me, and I would wear a mask when I opened the door.
我身体还不错，而且我从不出门，除了去外面丢垃圾，或者拿东西，都戴着口罩，所以我不太担心。
I am in good health, and I never go out, except to throw trash outside, or take things, wear masks, so I am not too worried.
但父母年纪大了，虽然老家没有武汉严重，我还是会担心他们。
But my parents are older and I worry about them even though my hometown is not as bad as Wuhan.
我每天给他们打电话，叮嘱他们不要出门，要勤洗手、多喝水。
I call them every day and tell them not to go out. Wash their hands and drink plenty of water.
我白天最少十分钟洗一次手；然后每天用84消毒液拖地，3到5遍；每天喝温热水，3到5瓶开水瓶温水。
I wash my hands at least once a day; then mop the floor with disinfectant 84 times a day for three to five times; drink warm water and 3 to 5 bottles of warm water a day.
每天晚上睡觉前，我都会洗澡、用白醋泡脚半个小时，白醋可以软化血管，还可以杀菌。
Every night before going to bed, I take a bath, with white vinegar soaked feet for half an hour, white vinegar can soften blood vessels, can also kill bacteria.
这些方法都是盲人学校学的，另外还有少吃垃圾食品，少熬夜，少生闷气，这样也可以预防新冠肺炎。
These methods are taught in schools for the blind, and there is less junk food, less staying up late and less sulking, which can also help prevent pneumonia in the new crown.
事实上，我自己也做不到，经常凌晨两三点睡，早上十点多才起床。
As a matter of fact, I can't do it myself. I often go to bed at two or three in the morning.
2月28日中午，我在家里煮饭时，电磁炉“扑哧”一声，可能冒火花了。
At noon on Feb. 28, when I was cooking at home, the induction cooker "squelched" and there might have been a spark.
我当时吓死了，发现电磁炉烧坏了，家里的电也跳闸了。
I was so scared that I found the electric cooker burned out and the electricity in the house tripped.
我不知道怎么办，打电话给社区，社区的工作人员说，修电工没有上班，让我第二天再联系他。
I didn't know what to do. I called the community. The community worker said the electrician was not at work and asked me to contact him the next day.
但我既做不了饭，也炒不了菜，不能一直饿着肚子。
But I can't cook, I can't cook, I can't go hungry all the time.
没有办法，我就跟我一朋友说了，他帮我在网上发了一条求助消息。
No way, I told one of my friends that he had sent me a message online for help.
很快，我接到很多电话，有江苏的、甘肃的，武汉的……当天晚上11点，两个志愿者过来了，他们帮我弄好了电，还送来了一些面条。
Soon, I got a lot of phone calls from Jiangsu, Gansu and Wuhan... Two volunteers came that night at 11: 00 pm, and they helped me with the electricity and some noodles.
3月1日，卷闸门突然关不上了，刚好又联系上了志愿者，他们给我带了新的电磁炉、一袋米、一些菜，又帮我把卷闸门关好了。
On March 1, the sluice gates suddenly went out of commission and the volunteers were contacted again. They brought me a new induction cooker, a bag of rice, some vegetables, and helped me shut the floodgates.
我真的很感谢他们，想着等疫情过后，免费给这些志愿者按摩。
I really appreciate them, and I want to give these volunteers free massages after the outbreak.
（文中人物为化名）戳这里进入“全国新型冠状病毒感染病例实时地图”↓↓本期编辑 邢潭推荐阅读。
Dell Computers, Computers, Computers, Computers, Computers, Computers, Computers, Computers, Computers, Computers and Computers.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一个盲人在武汉熬过的50天。
A blind man survived in Wuhan for 50 days.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "一个盲人在武汉熬过的50天";。
var msg _ title = & quot; a blind man who spent 50 days or so at Wuhan;;
var msg_desc = "他整日窝在店里，把门关的严严实实，不轻易出门半步。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
";。
;; & quot;
title: '欧洲同行求助钟南山',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '硬核奶奶对不起，我们都瞒了您',。
A: I'm sorry, but we all told you & apos; & quot; at your service.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '71岁危重患者想放弃，医生做了个大胆的决定',。
At 71, a critically ill person who wanted to give up, the doctor made a bold decision to service.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
