特朗普不担心感染，“其实是装的”。
Trump is not worried about infection, "he is faking it."
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻记者 辛恩波美国总统特朗普是少数公开对新冠疫情不以为然的人：即便是宣布对欧洲的旅行禁令这样的严厉措施，也忍不住要加上一句，“其实风险很低”。
NEW YORK (Reuters) - US President Donald Trump is one of the few people who publicly disagrees with the new crown: even draconian measures like the announcement of a travel ban on Europe cannot help but add, "The risk is very low."
不过这可能是表面现象，不同的消息来源显示，这位有着严重洁癖、自称“恐菌者”的总统私下里其实很害怕感染新冠病毒。
But that may be superficial, with different sources suggesting that the president, a serious cleanup-minded self-styled "phobia," is actually secretly afraid of contracting the new crown virus.
而他之所以在公开场合坚持淡化疫情的风险，部分原因是担心疫情恐慌冲击经济会拖累自己的连任之路。
And he has played down the risk in public, in part because he fears that a panic attack on the economy could drag down his chances of re-election.
特朗普正在谋求下一个四年任期，强劲的经济是他与民主党候选人竞争的资本。
Trump is seeking his next four-year term, and a strong economy is his capital to compete with Democratic candidates.
而随着新冠肺炎疫情在美国爆发，特朗普正在承受越来越大的压力。
And, with the outbreak of pneumonia in the United States, Trump is coming under increasing pressure.
人前说没事，私下很害怕特朗普对新冠病毒的态度从一开始就与公众和媒体的看法背道而驰。
People say it's okay, and privately fear that Trump's attitude toward the new crown virus has run counter to public and media opinion from the start.
尽管确诊数字过去几周迅速上升，公共卫生专家反复警告，但是特朗普却一再表示对此无需担心。
Despite the rapid rise in the number of confirmed cases over the past few weeks, and repeated warnings from public-health experts, Trump has repeatedly said that there is no need to worry.
特朗普多次呼吁美国民众把新冠病毒“当成流感就好”，周一他还在推特上重申这种论调。
Trump has repeatedly called on Americans to "think of" the new cap virus as flu, "an argument he reiterated on Twitter on Monday.
他还将控制疫情的希望寄托在天气身上，不久前他预计新冠病毒会在4月随着高温而消失。
He also pins his hopes on the weather, which he recently predicted would disappear with high temperatures in April.
即便在新冠病毒已然进入华盛顿逼近白宫的情况下，特朗普表面上看起来似乎也仍然十分“淡定”。
Even as the new crown virus approaches the White House in Washington, DC, Trump still looks, on the face of it, "calm."
本周以来，至少5名国会议员因参加上个月底的保守政治行动会议（CPAC）时与一名确诊者曾有密切接触而自我隔离，其中包括特朗普新任命的白宫幕僚长马克·梅多斯。
Since this week, at least five members of Congress, including Trump's newly appointed Chief of Staff, Mark Meadows, have insulated themselves from a close contact with a confirmed person during a Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) at the end of last month.
特朗普也参加了这场活动，但是据称没有与确诊者直接接触过。
Trump also took part in the campaign, but is said to have had no direct contact with those diagnosed.
不过，5名自我隔离的议员中有2人最近都与特朗普有过亲密接触。
However, two of the five self-isolated members of parliament have recently been in close contact with Trump.
其中一人还曾与特朗普共同搭乘空军一号。
One of them used to ride with Trump on Air Force One.
尽管外界十分关注特朗普是否会被感染，众议院议长佩洛西呼吁特朗普接受检测，但白宫坚持称，特朗普健康状况极好，无需接受病毒测试。
Despite widespread concern about Trump's possible infection, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi called for Trump to be tested, but the White House insisted that Trump was in excellent health and did not need to be tested for the virus.
而在被问及这一情况时，特朗普7日称，“我一点儿也不害怕。
And when asked about this, Trump said on the 7th, "I am not afraid at all.
”不过，这可能不是事实。
But that may not be the case.
美国《名利场》3月11的一篇文章披露，许多白宫助手都表示特朗普实际上私下里很害怕染上新冠病毒。
A March 11 Vanity Fair article reveals that many White House aides say Trump is actually secretly afraid of contracting the new crown jewel.
文章称，有关特朗普害怕感染新冠病毒的事早就传遍了白宫。
The article said fears about Trump's fear of contracting the new crown virus had already spread throughout the White House.
报道还援引一名消息人士的话称，上周特朗普曾对一名助手说，他担心有记者故意将新冠病毒传播到“空军一号”上感染给他。
A source was quoted as saying that Trump told one of his aides last week that he feared reporters might infect him by deliberately transmitting the virus to Air Force One.
为此，特朗普不仅要求特勤局制定一个筛查计划，还要求禁止任何有咳嗽症状的人进入白宫。
To that end, Trump has asked the Secret Service not only to develop a screening program, but also to ban anyone with cough symptoms from entering the White House.
特朗普在推特上言辞否认这种说法，白宫发言人也借用特朗普的说法称这是彻头彻尾的“假新闻”。
Trump tweeted against such claims, and White House spokesmen, to paraphrase Trump, called it outright "false news."
不过，据美国有线电视新闻网（CNN）13日也援引一名接近特朗普的消息人士的报道称，特朗普的确非常担心。
However, according to CNN news network CNN also quoted a source close to Trump reported that Trump is indeed very worried.
这名消息人士称，特朗普对亲信承认自己的确担心与新冠病毒感染者接触很担心，包括近期访美回国后确诊感染的巴西官员。
The source said Trump is worried about cronies admitting that they are indeed worried about contact with people infected with the new crown virus, including Brazilian officials who were recently confirmed to have contracted the virus after a visit to the US.
“他对他所见到的所有人感到担心，包括巴西人，”这名消息人士说。
"He was worried about everyone he saw, including Brazilians," the source said.
巴西总统博索纳罗日前访问美国曾经与特朗普会面，一名同场的巴西新闻官回国后证实确诊新冠肺炎。
Brazilian President Jose Manuel Bozonaro visited the United States recently to meet with Trump, and a fellow Brazilian press officer returned home to confirm a confirmed case of pneumonia.
不过，特朗普12日依然强调不担心自己的健康，声称只是挨着坐了一小会。
Still, Trump stressed on the 12th that he was not worried about his health, saying he was sitting next to him for a while.
特朗普私下里对新冠病毒的恐惧一点都不奇怪。
Trump's private fear of the new crown virus is not surprising.
特朗普周围的许多人早就已经证实他一直有严重的洁癖，多年以前特朗普就公开宣称自己是一名“恐菌者”。
Many around Trump have long confirmed that he has been a serious cleanup addict, and many years ago Trump declared himself to be a "funk."
美国媒体此前披露，特朗普特别爱洗手，他通常避免在演讲和集会后和人们握手，就算握手也会立即用洗手液消毒。
The US media has previously revealed that Trump is a hand-washing enthusiast, and that he usually avoids shaking hands with people after speeches and rallies, and using hand sanitizers immediately, if at all.
他甚至会要求来到白宫的访客到邻近椭圆形办公室的洗手间先把手洗了。
He would even ask visitors to the White House to wash their hands in the bathroom next to the Oval Office.
他讨厌看到病恹恹的人出现在他面前，如果有助手在他面前咳嗽和打喷嚏会被他迅速赶走。
He hated to see a sickly man appear in front of him, and if an assistant coughed and sneezed in front of him, he quickly drove him away.
实际上，据已经自我隔离的众议员马特·盖茨（Matt Gaetz）透露，特朗普近日采取了一些预防感染的措施，包括频繁使用手部消毒液。
Indeed, according to self-isolated Representative Matt Gaetz, Trump has recently taken a number of steps to prevent infection, including frequent use of hand sanitizers.
《华盛顿邮报》在本周一（9日）的一篇报道中称，特朗普的白宫医生肖恩·康利（Sean Conley）最近开始出席白宫的某些会议，白宫内部的清洁工作也比以往更加频繁，有类似流感症状的人被要求不要进入白宫，因为他们“可能会感染自由世界的领导人”。
Trump's White House doctor Sean Conley has begun attending some White House meetings more frequently than ever before, and people with flu-like symptoms are being asked not to enter the White House because they "could infect the leaders of the free world," the Washington Post said in a report Monday.
连任之路遇上“黑天鹅”《名利场》的文章在分析特朗普对疫情的反应时认为，特朗普实际上将一场公共卫生危机当做了一场媒体战争。
In an analysis of Trump's response to the epidemic, Trump, in an article published by Black Swan Vanity Fair, argues that Trump is effectively treating a public-health crisis as a media war.
一位白宫官员表示，“他（特朗普）在试图控制他无法控制的叙事。
"He [Trump] is trying to control a narrative he can't control," said a White House official.
”文章指出，这场疫情危机符合特朗普早已存在的根深蒂固的世界观，即媒体总是在收集故事来打倒他。
The article argues that the epidemic crisis is consistent with Trump's long-held worldview that the media are always collecting stories to topple him.
新冠疫情就是这样一个例子，特朗普选择了他所熟悉的回应方式——他将媒体关于疫情的报道称作“假新闻”。
The new crowning epidemic is one such example, and Trump has chosen to respond in a way that he knows well - calling media reports of the epidemic "false news."
另一个更重要的原因，可能是出于他对恐慌情绪打击经济的担忧。
Another, and more important, reason may be his fear of a panic hitting the economy.
特朗普热衷于吹嘘自己的经济成绩，这是他在今年11月大选谋求连任的关键所在。
Trump's enthusiasm for bragging about his economic performance is key to his bid for re-election in November.
为了连任，这位有着严重洁癖的总统宁愿选择对疫情轻描淡写。
To be re-elected, the president, a serious cleanup addict, would prefer to downplay the epidemic.
英国广播公司（BBC）在日前的文章中就指出，支持率和股市数据是特朗普一直在意且时刻紧盯的。
As the BBC pointed out in a recent article, approval ratings and stock-market figures are something Trump has always cared about and watched over.
特朗普预计，如果股市飞涨，他的支持率也将水涨船高，继而他将在今年11月获得连任。
Trump expects his approval ratings to soar if the stock market soars, and he will be re-elected in November.
他上任后几乎每四天就要通过发推文来提振市场一下。
Almost every four days after taking office, he tweeted to shore up the market.
据《纽约时报》报道，从一开始白宫内部就对应该向公众披露多少真相意见不统一。
According to The New York Times, there has been disagreement from the outset within the White House on how much truth should be disclosed to the public.
尽管美国卫生官员很早就发出警报，并敦促白宫采取措施，但特朗普担心会扰乱金融市场并引发恐慌。
Despite early warnings from US health officials and urging the White House to take action, Trump fears disruption of financial markets and panic.
由于特朗普的压力，许多白宫官员因害怕激怒特朗普而不敢表达与他相抵触的看法。
As a result of Trump's pressure, many White House officials are afraid to express views that contradict Trump for fear of provoking him.
国防部长埃斯珀还警告军队不要做出与特朗普总统所传达信息相冲突的决定。
Defense Secretary Stephen Espper also warned the military not to make decisions that conflict with President Trump's message.
上个月，对疫情状况忧心忡忡的美国卫生官员趁特朗普搭乘飞机从印度返回美国的机会，对外警告称新冠病毒在美国的社区传播是不可避免的，这一消息迅速引起了美国股市暴跌。
Last month, worried US health officials took advantage of Trump's flight back to the United States from India to warn of the inevitable spread of the virus in the US community, a news that quickly sent US stock markets plummeting.
据《纽约时报》报道，得知消息的特朗普大发雷霆。
According to The New York Times, Trump, who learned the news, was furious.
他一下飞机就给卫生部长阿扎尔打电话质问，指责这一警告吓坏了民众。
As soon as he got off the plane, he telephoned Health Minister Asif Azar, accusing the warning of scaring people.
但特朗普所做的一切似乎都适得其反。
But everything Trump has done seems to backfire.
他告诉公众别担心疫情会过去，但美国确诊病例增长却越来越快；他说美国准备充分，结果副总统彭斯转脸就承认试剂盒根本不够用。
He told the public not to worry that the epidemic would pass, but the number of confirmed cases in the United States was growing faster; he said the United States was well prepared, so Vice President Burns turned his face and admitted that the kit was simply not enough.
有接近白宫的共和党人说，他的乐观估计根本上脱离了现实，导致疫情恶化。
Republicans close to the White House say his optimistic assessment is fundamentally unrealistic and has led to a worsening of the epidemic.
结果，疫情既没有像特朗普想象的那样很快结束，股市也没能止住下跌的节奏，美国人对特朗普处理疫情的却方式越来越感到不满，实际上一些美国媒体指责特朗普才是控制疫情最大的障碍。
As a result, the epidemic has not ended as quickly as Trump imagined, the stock market has failed to stop the decline, Americans are increasingly unhappy with Trump's handling of the epidemic, and some US media accuse Trump of being the biggest obstacle to containing the epidemic.
原本特朗普在今年的这场大选中占尽优势，但是这场疫情让他的连任之路充满了不确定性。
Trump had the upper hand in this year's election, but the epidemic has made his re-election journey fraught with uncertainty.
《华盛顿邮报》报道，白宫官员越来越担心这场迅速蔓延的疫情是一场影响特朗普谋求连任的“黑天鹅事件”。
White House officials are increasingly worried that the rapidly spreading epidemic is a "black swan affair" affecting Trump's bid for re-election, The Washington Post reported.
戳这里进入“全国新型冠状病毒感染病例实时地图”↓↓本期编辑 常琛推荐阅读。
Dell Compute Plot Here into Dell Computers of New Type of Coronavirus Infection Cases in China
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
特朗普不担心感染，“其实是装的”。
Trump is not worried about infection, "he is faking it."
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "特朗普不担心感染，“其实是装的”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Trump was not worried about the infection; "he was in fact faking";;
var msg_desc = "部分原因是担心疫情恐慌冲击经济会拖累自己的连任之路。
var msg _ desc = & quot; partly because of fears that a panic attack on the economy could drag down its chances of re-election.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '欧洲同行求助钟南山',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '硬核奶奶对不起，我们都瞒了您',。
A: I'm sorry, but we all told you & apos; & quot; at your service.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '71岁危重患者想放弃，医生做了个大胆的决定',。
At 71, a critically ill person who wanted to give up, the doctor made a bold decision to service.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
