疫情日记：试图安慰和拒绝遗忘。
Epidemic Diary: Trying to comfort and refuse to forget.
左异。
On the left.
偶尔治愈                      。
Occasionally cured.
偶尔治愈。
Occasionally cured.
记录人与疾病、衰老、死亡的相处方式。
Document how people relate to illness, old age and death.
。
.
疫情终究过去。
The epidemic is over.
愿所有置身其中的真实记录，不会变成被「演绎」的历史。
May all the true records in it not turn into "deductive" history.
一我就活在现场中 —— 1 月 25 日起，作家方方的「封城记」，渐次成为公众关注武汉疫情的窗口之一。
I live in the scene - from January 25, the writer Fang Fang's "story of the city", gradually become one of the windows of public attention to the epidemic in Wuhan.
冰冷的数据和失声的新闻里，以「实事报导」为执笔初心，悲愤至暗时刻，问责缺位机构；细语人间冷暖，静话生活琐碎。
In cold data and mute news, take "Reality Report" as the starting point, Grief and indignation to dark moment, accountability missing institutions; Whispering people warm, quiet trivial life.
正如华中师大教授戴建业对方方日志的评价：宝贵「信史」。
As Dai Jianye, professor of Central China Normal University, commented on the Fangfang Log: A Valuable "History of Faith."
当然，批判甚至谩骂，亦伴随于此。
Of course, criticism and even invective accompanied by this.
诸如放大黑暗，抑或煽动情绪。
Such as magnifying the dark, or stirring up emotions.
最近一次的集中攻击，在于方方曾以湖北省作协原主席的「特权」，利用警方等，将其侄女送出武汉「避难」。
The latest concentrated attack was that Fang had used the "privilege" of the former chairman of the Hubei Provincial Association to send his niece out of Wuhan as "asylum."
但方方侄女本属新加坡侨民，恰如近期中国自伊朗接回华人，新加坡政府自武汉的接侨举动，又为疫情期间媒体早既报道的事实。
But Fang's niece is a Singaporean, just as China recently received Chinese from Iran, and the Singaporean government's overseas visitors from Wuhan are facts already reported by the media during the outbreak.
方方则淡然道，作为身处疫区的 900 万武汉居民之一，其举不过是试图安慰，以及拒绝遗忘。
Fang Ran, one of the 9 million Wuhan residents in the affected areas, said the move was just an attempt to comfort and refuse to forget.
此外，方方也坦言自己并非「专门挑刺」之人，多有体谅治理难处外。
In addition, Fang admitted that he is not "special prickly" people, more considerate of the difficulties of governance.
对所见的「明亮之处」，同样会呈现。
The same applies to the bright spots you see.
李文亮殉职，方方写下：天气阴沉，不知是否苍天在向他致以哀悼。
Li Wenliang died on duty, Fang Fang wrote: the weather is gloomy, I do not know whether the sky in mourning for him.
而当我们为此「肝肠寸断」时，正是因为窥见自己。
And when we are "broken-hearted" about it, it is because we see ourselves.
2 月 7 日，武汉 8 位市民，双闪驾驶 8 辆汽车（寓意曾因预警疫情而被训诫的 8 名医生），为李文亮送行。
On February 7, eight citizens of Wuhan, double-flash driving eight vehicles (implied by the eight doctors who had been reprimanded for the outbreak), saw Lee off.
「他们都饱含热泪，话语哽咽」。
"They are all full of tears and choking words."
如今，李文亮的微博下，无数人在倾诉衷肠。
Now, under Li Wenliang's microblog, countless people are talking in the heart.
「将那里当成了一个『哭墙』」。
"Think of it as a 'crying wall'.
刘智明牺牲，方方感慨「死亡的幽灵，依然在武汉徘徊。
Liu Zhiming sacrifice, Fang Fang lamented that "the ghost of death, is still wandering in Wuhan.
」彭银华离开，方方痛惜「从此，再也不能迎接他的新娘。
"Mr. Pang left, lamenting that" his bride will never be received again.
」夏思思和黄文军的心跳，在同在一天停止，方方泪落道，「叹息和哭泣。
"Xiaxi and Huang Wenjun's heartbeat stopped on the same day. Fang Fang cried," Sigh and cry.
」「很多声的叹息和哭泣。
"" Many sighing and weeping.
」如此难以贴切形容的扼腕，归根一句，既为方方所言：医务人员的牺牲 —— 太惨烈。
Such an indescribable wring of the wrist, taken together, is, in the words of the Fang: the sacrifice of the medical staff - too grievous.
方方日记连载图源：方方财新博客截图而痛隐心底的，是在疫情挣扎或丧亲的众生。
Fang Fangfang diary source: Fangfang new blog screenshot and hidden heart, is in the outbreak of struggling or bereaved sentient beings.
3 月 13 日，方方想起即将到来的清明。
On March 13, Fang Fang thought of the coming Qingming Festival.
两月余的时间，数千人的命陨，「非但不能扫墓纪念，连骨灰都拿不到」。
Over the next two months, thousands of people's lives meteor, "not only can't sweep the grave commemoration, even can't get the ashes."
就新冠肺炎逝者名单，方方认为，未能及时检测，和虽非新冠肺炎病患却亡于其中的，皆应通过社区等努力，逐一登记，分门别类。
Regarding the list of the deceased patients, Fang suggested that those who had not been tested in time, and those who died of non-Newly Coronary Pneumonia, should be registered and classified through community efforts.
如她所了解到的悲剧一角：一户两死，「殡仪馆一整天都没有车子接，到了晚上来了一辆箱式货车拖走的。
As she understood the tip of the tragedy: one family died, "the undertaker didn't pick it up all day, and by night a van came to tow it away.
」面对还未统计在新冠肺炎死亡数据中的他们，方方希望，在未来的安抚中，「或可通盘考虑在内」。
"Fang hopes that, in future pacification, they" may be taken into account as a whole "in the face of uncounted deaths due to crowding pneumonia.
沉重的代价正在付出，刺骨的追问尚无回应。
The heavy price is being paid, and the acrimonious inquiry has yet to be answered.
在方方的观察里，疫情之下，太多问题有悖常理，违反规则，不可解答。
In Fangfang's observation, under the epidemic situation, too many problems are perverse, against the rules, can not be answered.
当其看到武汉市中心医院在 4 名医生已然殉职后， 4 名医生又濒危，「有的全凭外部手段维持生命」时，则直问彭义香院长及蔡莉书记如何安心在位。
When he saw that four doctors had died in the central hospital of Wuhan city, and that four doctors were endangered, "some of them by external means," he asked Dean Peng Yixiang and Secretary Cai Li how they could remain in office.
「如有良知，请引咎辞职」。
"If you have conscience, please resign."
而对「敷言塞责」的官员和专家，方方强调，「糊涂也好，渎职也罢」，均「等同犯罪」，必须严处罚，以儆效尤。
As for the officials and experts, Fang stressed that "muddle-headed or negligent" is "tantamount to crime" and should be severely punished as an example.
毕竟，不追责的结果，「最受害的是国家自己，丧失的也是政府的公信力。
After all, without accountability, "it is the country itself that suffers most, and it is the credibility of the government that is lost."
民心受伤，就更不用说」。
The public is hurt, not to mention. "
最终，灾难唯剩「结束」，没有「胜利」。
In the end, there is only "end" to disaster and no "victory."
二隔离期间，李晓平必读方方。
During the period of isolation, Li Xiaoping must read Fang Fang.
方方传达的悲愤和无助，「正是我所经历的，却远比她的描述痛得多。
The grief and helplessness that Fang Fang conveyed, "What I have experienced, is much more painful than her description.
」作为华科大附属同济医院教授林正斌的挚友，李晓平亲见的锥心点滴，却是夹缝求生的武汉日常。
As a close friend of Lin Zhengbin, a close friend of Tongji Hospital, a professor attached to HKUST, Li Xiaoping witnessed the bevel-shaped heart drip, but the daily life of Wuhan.
当李晓平以日记回顾起期间细节时，才真切体悟到，如方方所言的 ——「在时代的一粒灰下煎熬」。
When Li Xiaoping reviewed the details of the period in his diary, he realized, as Fang Fang said, "To suffer under a gray grain of time."
1 月 24 日，李晓平得知林正斌新冠肺炎。
January 24, Li Xiaoping learned that Lin Zhengbin new crown pneumonia.
27 日林正斌入院后，儿媳 CT 显示肺部感染。
After Lin Zhengbin was admitted to hospital, his daughter-in-law CT showed pulmonary infection.
李晓平决定：救人。
Li Xiaoping decided to save lives.
接出林正斌爱人和仅 9 月大的孙子，李晓平陪同他们转移到到万科一小区内。
Lin Zhengbin's wife and only September-old grandson, Li Xiaoping, accompanied them to a small section of Vanke.
1 月 31 日，林正斌儿子再被检测出疑似。
On January 31, Lin Zhengbin's son was again suspected.
生活物资短缺下，李晓平只愿能住进隔离宾馆，「至少不愁吃」。
In the absence of supplies, Li would only be able to stay in an isolated hotel, "at least not worry about eating."
眼见网络上，密集的绝望逐渐增多时，李晓平咬牙道：再多的焦虑和压抑，都不能表露。
Seeing the network, the dense despair gradually increased, Li Xiaoping gnawed his teeth: no matter how much anxiety and depression, can not show.
2 月 1 日，林正斌已病重到接上呼吸机。
On February 1, Lin Zhengbin was seriously ill and attached to a respirator.
对李晓平信息其家人情况，之前尚能详细指导如何预防用药等的他，只能简短回复道「谢谢」。
Li Xiaoping to his family information, before the detailed guidance on how to prevent medication, can only briefly reply to "thank you."
危急中，李晓平开始「谎话连篇」：我跟 S（林正斌妻子）说，林的手机没电了，护士们太忙，没时间帮他充电。
In the crisis, Li Xiaoping began "lie after lie": I told S (Lin Zhengbin's wife) that Lin's cell phone was dead and nurses were too busy to help him recharge his batteries.
然后，我把 S 的手机断了网，她上不了微信，只有听我胡说。
Then I broke S's cell phone off the net. She couldn't get on the message, she just listened to me.
4 日，李晓平微信林正斌：心都揪疼了，老林，我等你回话。
4, Li Xiaoping micro-letter Lin Zhengbin: Heart ache, Lao Lin, I wait for you to talk back.
6 日，李晓平知晓林正斌需要转入同济中法新城院区，「因为那里才有 EMCO 」。
On June 6, Li knew that Lin Zhengbin needed to be transferred to the Tongzhi-France Xincheng District, "because there is EMCO."
9 日，李晓平转发冯翔的歌曲《汉阳门花园》道：本以为重听这首歌会很亲切，谁知却很想泪水长流。
Li Xiaoping forwarded Feng Xiang's song "Hanyang Men Garden" on the 9th: I thought this song would be very kind, but I really want to cry.
10 日，「最不想知道的结果还是来了」。
On the 10th, "the last thing I want to know is coming."
不是医院的通知，而是「互联网上铺天盖地的『惊闻噩耗』」。
Not the hospital announcement, but "the Internet is full of" shocking news ".
日记里，李晓平已「不想再说那天的情形」。
In his diary, Li Xiaoping "did not want to say more about that day."
李晓平的记录中，林正斌亲人亦在疫情中遭遇不幸图源：新三届：《一个武汉人的隔离日记》生活，必须继续。
In Li Xiaoping's records, Lin Zhengbin's relatives also suffered from the epidemic: the new three: "An isolated diary of Wuhan people" life, must continue.
得知李晓平对林正斌家属的照顾，亲友们称赞其如「英雄」。
Li Xiaoping to know the care of Lin Zhengbin's family, friends and relatives praised it as "heroes."
但李晓平自知，「当初冲进旋涡时，并不知深浅」。
But Li Xiaoping knew that "when he rushed into the whirlpool, he knew nothing about it."
她凌乱地「絮叨」着无数的担忧，「我怕得要死」。
She rambled over a myriad of worries, "I'm scared to death."
2 月 18 日后，同步方舱医院的投入，武汉进行全面排查攻坚，「小区才真正全封闭」。
After February 18, synchronous cabin hospital input, Wuhan to carry out a comprehensive screening attack, "the community is really closed."
此时，「外面的朋友，就算是生死之交的，也帮不上我们了」。
At this point, "the outside friends, even if the life and death of friends, also can not help us."
官媒公布的「团购攻略」，难以解决居民所需：例如「排骨 10 公斤一份，50 份起购」的限制等，常使李晓平「手足无措」。
The "Group Purchase Strategy" announced by the Government is difficult to meet the needs of residents. For example, the restriction of "10 kg ribs and 50 first-order items" often leaves Li "overwhelmed."
五大商超的集中供应，首先须满足其方圆 5 公里范围，加之需求登记，志愿分拣，困难家庭求助等复杂程序，总难以落实。
The centralized supply of the five major commercial supermarkets must first meet their 5-kilometer radius, and complicated procedures such as registration of needs, voluntary sorting and help from families in difficulty are always difficult to implement.
李晓平「抱怨」道：武汉人一直是听话的，你说不会人传人，我信；你说有限人传人，我也信；你让不要自己去医院，等着社区安排住院，我就等着；你说封小区。
Li Xiaoping "complained": Wuhan people have always been obedient, you said that no one will be handed down, I believe; you said limited people to people, I also believe; you do not go to the hospital, waiting for the community to arrange hospitalization, I will wait; you said sealed the community.
我就不出门了。
I'm not going out.
但是，我吃的怎么解决啊。
But what do I do with my food?
你就画饼给我看，肚子饿得慌的时候，能没有怨气吗。
Show me the pancakes, and when you are hungry, will you not complain?
3 月 5 日，李晓平已隔离 38 天。
On 5 March, Li Xiaoping was held incommunicado for 38 days.
也终能买到协调的低价肉菜。
Also can buy the coordinated low-cost meat dish finally.
三你好 3 月，你是带着希望来的吗 —— 3 月 1 日，金银潭医院护士柳叶（化名）轻问道。
Hello March, you came with hope - March 1, gold and silver pool hospital nurse Liu Ye (alias) gently asked.
武汉封城当日，26 岁的柳叶，瞒着父母写好「遗书」，连同银行卡和购房合同，一起交由姐姐保管。
Wuhan sealing day, the 26-year-old Willow, hidden from their parents wrote "wills," together with bank cards and purchase contracts, to the sister to keep.
在她的疫情日记里，一线医务人员的承担和承受，汹涌地流淌在平静的文字间。
In her epidemic diary, front-line medical staff bear and bear, surging in the calm text.
3 月 1 日，柳叶在静候疫情防控转好的同时，更需面对生死别离：「 27 床的爹爹走了」，「我握着他的手，直到逐渐失去温度」。
On March 1, while waiting for the disease to get better, willow leaves had to face a life-or-death struggle: "My 27-bed father was gone," and "I took his hand until the temperature died out."
柳叶将爹爹的视频留在手机里，但不敢点开。
Willow leaves his father's video in his cell phone, but is afraid to click away.
「爹爹走得很安详，替他盖好被子后，我出病房写死亡记录，心里说不出的滋味」。
"Dad walked quietly, covering his quilt, I went out of the room to write the death records, the feeling of indescribable."
或许，她会想起，同事曾询问病人去世后的流程，「我说怎么了，她回过来 4 个字：『我爸走了』。
Perhaps she remembered a colleague asking about the process after her patient died, "I said what happened and she came back with four words: 'My dad's gone.
」柳叶对此记录道：同事父亲患有癌症，自我们收治病毒肺炎起，她就再也没有回家，她怕自己身上携带病毒，传给本就免疫力低下的父亲。
The colleague's father suffered from cancer and she has never returned home since we admitted the virus pneumonia. She was afraid she would carry the virus to her immune father, she wrote.
当被告知父亲病情加重而终去探望时，柳叶同事却格外无奈：「害怕身上有病毒，只能隔着门远远看着爸爸，不敢靠近。
When he was told that his father was seriously ill and finally went to see him, Liu Ye colleagues were extremely helpless: "afraid of the virus, can only look at his father through the door, dare not approach.
看到爸爸虚弱的样子，觉得自己很不孝，自爸爸生病起从没好好陪陪他。
Seeing his father look weak, he felt very unfilial, since his father was ill has never been good with him.
」凡此悲剧人间，柳叶直面太多。
The willow leaves face too much of this tragedy.
2 月 28 日，柳叶进入病房后，见 49 床眼角挂泪。
On 28 February, when Liu Ye entered the ward, he saw 49 tears hanging from the corners of his eyes.
一询问，病患就「绷不住」。
When asked, the patient "cannot stretch out."
放声大哭道：刚接到电话，我老婆死了。
I just got the call and my wife died.
怎么办，没人给她办后事，我能出院送送她吗。
What? no one's done with her. Can I get her out of the hospital.
30 余载的夫妻相伴，瞬间两隔阴阳。
Couples of more than 30 years accompany, momentarily separated yin and yang.
「我和同事紧握着手宽慰他，想给他力量。
"My colleagues and I clasped hands and comforted him, trying to give him strength.
想让他知道有我们一直在，他不是一个人面对痛苦」。
Want to let him know that we have always been there, he is not alone in the face of pain. "
若非病毒凶恶，年轻的柳叶，或「不该」如此沉稳坚强。
Were it not for the virulence of the virus, the young willow leaves, or "should not" be so calm and strong.
2 月 10 日时，柳叶甚至「看到救护车就害怕」。
On February 10, Willow was even "afraid to see an ambulance."
一晚收治 200 个病患，在她眼中近乎「恐怖」。
She treated 200 patients overnight, almost "horrific" in her eyes.
当金银潭医院外援未至，600 余名医务人员神经紧绷，连轴奋战 20 天，「院长在会上哭了，因为心疼我们」；「这是我第一次见院长落泪。
"The dean cried at the meeting because he loved us" and "This is the first time I have seen the dean weep," he said.
」3 月 3 日，得知武汉中心医院眼科副主任梅仲明殉职时，柳叶已「没有震惊也不感意外」，「因为提前做好了心理准备」。
Liu Ye was "neither shocked nor surprised" when he learned that the deputy ophthalmologist of Wuhan Central Hospital had died on duty on March 3.
隐藏的情感，只能记录在日记中，仿若一种「自主」的缓解方式：我们从死神手里抢回了那么多人，却抢不回我的战友的命。
Hidden emotions can only be recorded in a diary, as if they were an "autonomous" form of remission: we snatch so many people from death, but cannot take the lives of my comrades-in-arms.
看着战友离去，我们痛心，胸口仿佛被巨石堵住，难受得我们无法呼吸。
Watching our comrades leave, we are sad, chest seems to be blocked by a boulder, afflictive we can not breathe.
这场疫情将我们打得遍体鳞伤，我们无路可退。
The epidemic has left us battered and bruised and we have no way out.
咬着牙，边哭边战，边战边哭。
Bite your teeth, cry and fight, weep.
如今，方舱医院休仓，定点医院计划腾退，金银潭医院的重任，重新开始显现。
Today, the cabin hospital is closed, the designated hospital plans to vacate, the gold and silver pool hospital's heavy responsibility, starts to appear again.
不过，柳叶正回归于「积极向上」：「我的遗书，银行卡和房本该收回来了」。
But Mr Liu is returning to being "positive": "My will, my bank card and my house should have been taken back."
因为，「金银潭医院是战疫打响的地方，也将是战疫结束的地方」。
"The Gold and Silver Pool Hospital is where the epidemic started and will be where it ended," he said.
四同于柳叶，坚守于武汉一线的，还有 4.2 万名驰援武汉的医务人员。
Four in the willow leaves, adhere to the line in Wuhan, there are 42,000 medical personnel to help Wuhan.
除却对病患的关心，家人的思念，在他们的疫情记录中，更多体现的，是专业和冷静。
In addition to caring for the sick, missing their families, in their epidemic records, more reflects the professional and calm.
2 月 13 日清晨，感控专家，成都市公共卫生临床医疗中心副主任医师陈萍，在接到国家卫健委抽调指令后，到达武汉。
Feb. 13 early morning, sensed experts, Chengdu Public Health Clinical Center, deputy director of physician Chen Ping, after receiving the National Fitness and Health Commission pumping instructions, arrived in Wuhan.
当日，陈萍首先进入方舱医院，协助全程梳理医务人员防护流程。
On that day, Chen Ping first entered the cabin hospital to help comb the entire process of medical protection.
14 日，陈萍再至其驻点医院金银潭，对「每一个新到的防护用品进行鉴定」后，完成病区流程规范设置，防护用品使用管理及消毒药械临床使用指导。
On February 14, Chen Ping visited the Gold and Silver Pool of her hospital and completed the process specification setting, the management of the use of protective equipment and the guidance on the clinical use of antiseptics after the identification of each newly arrived protective item.
她工作的目的，在于新冠疫情的处置中，金银潭医院可以做进一步精细化管理，「优化流程及标化管理，为武汉保卫战，湖北保卫战全面总攻做好准备」。
The purpose of her work is to further refine the management of the Golden and Silver Pool Hospital during the disposal of the New Crown Epidemic and Au Tam Hospital.
16 日，陈萍应武汉市精神卫生中心的支援申请前往，发现医院「从隔离病区的布局流程，到消毒隔离意识及个人防护知识，（和综合医院相比），都有很大差距」。
On April 16, at the request of Wuhan Mental Health Center, Chen Ping went to the hospital and found that there was a "huge gap between the layout of the isolated areas, the awareness of disinfection isolation and the knowledge of personal protection (as compared with general hospitals)."
此前，武汉市精神卫生中心曾因「认识不足」导致院内感染，院内医务人员在内，短期内既确诊新冠肺炎 80 人。
Earlier, Wuhan Mental Health Center due to "lack of awareness" caused nosocomial infection, hospital medical staff, not only confirmed the new crown pneumonia 80 people in the short term.
更为危险的是，如此境况下，武汉市精神卫生中心又被列入定点医疗机构，以收治新冠肺炎合并精神疾病患者。
More dangerously, under such circumstances, Wuhan Mental Health Center has been added to the designated medical institutions to treat patients with New Crown Pneumonia complicated with mental illness.
为杜绝武汉市精神卫生中心再陷困沼，陈萍开始事无巨细地指导改造。
In order to put an end to the mental health center in Wuhan, Chen Ping began to meticulously guide the transformation.
陈萍武汉支援日历图源：成都市公卫中心官微在其「战地随笔」中，陈萍记录道，虽武汉市精神卫生中心已将二七院区住院楼设为隔离病区，但「毕竟不是按照传染病病区建设。
Chen Ping Wuhan support calendar chart source: Chengdu Public Health Center in his "field essay", Chen Ping records that although Wuhan City Mental Health Center has set up 27 hospital buildings as quarantine areas, but "after all, not according to the infectious disease area.
现有建筑存在很多不符合传染病感控要求（的地方），需要因地制宜实施改建」。
There are many existing buildings that do not meet the infectious disease sensibility requirements and need to be adapted to local conditions.
规划隔离病房的医务人员通道和患者通道，确定清洁区、潜在污染区和污染区划分后，陈萍带领武汉市精神卫生中心医务人员「从每个区域的定位、功能设置、房间分配，到工作流程、人员管理、感控要点」，进行逐一解释。
After planning the passage of medical staff and patient passageways in the isolation ward, and determining the areas of cleaning, potential contamination and pollution, Chen Ping led the medical staff of Wuhan Mental Health Center to explain each area in terms of location, function setting, room allocation, workflow, personnel management and sensibility control points.
2 月 20 日，武汉市精神卫生中心基本改建到位。
February 20, Wuhan city mental health center basic reconstruction in place.
陈萍则不厌其烦地讲解实际操作，「每穿脱一件防护用品，我都会提醒他们使用要领和穿戴技巧。
Chen Ping goes to great lengths to explain how it works. "Every time I take off a protective gear, I remind them of the basics and wearing techniques.
」「自己都觉得快要变成西游记里的唐僧了，恨不得将 20 多年传染病防控经验一股脑灌输给他们。
"I feel like I'm going to become a Tang Priest in my travels to the West. I wish I could indoctrinate them with more than 20 years of infectious disease prevention and control.
」陈萍深知，因前期防控经验的缺失，武汉市精神卫生中心出现集中感染，在金银潭医院治疗的医务人员，亦出现病危情形。
"Chen Ping knows that due to the lack of prevention and control experience in the early stage, Wuhan mental health center concentrated infection, in the gold and silver pool hospital treatment of medical staff, also appeared in critical condition.
她的努力，则是希望此后，「医务人员零感染」。
Her efforts are expected to be followed by "zero infection of medical staff."
定向支援武钢二院的天津医疗队，和陈萍一样，以「红区日记」的形式，详细记录着介入经验和防控方式。
The Tianjin Medical Team of the Second Academy of Wuhan Iron and Steel, like Chen Ping, keeps detailed records of the intervention experience and control methods in the form of a "Red Zone Diary."
初接管武钢二院时，天津医疗队方发现「情况糟糕到超出大家想象」：病房很长时间没有使用，地上盖着厚厚的灰尘，甚至有的窗户缺失玻璃，医疗器械残缺不全。
When the hospital was first taken over, the Tianjin medical team found that "the situation was worse than anyone could imagine": the wards had not been used for a long time, the floor was covered with thick dust, some windows lacked glass, and medical equipment was incomplete.
天津医疗队和治愈病患图源：津云2 月 26 日，天津医疗队驻守武钢二院一月后，累计治愈新冠肺炎出院患者 100 余人。
Tianjin medical team and treatment of patients: February 26, Tianjin medical team stationed at the second hospital in Wugang, a cumulative total of 100 patients cured after the discharge of the new crown pneumonia.
目前，天津医疗队终可修整，由贵州及云南医疗队「接力」。
At present, Tianjin medical team can be repaired by the Guizhou and Yunnan medical teams "relay."
五虽成绩显著，天津医疗队专家组长史东升终难忘记第一位去世的病患。
Despite remarkable achievements, Tianjin medical team expert group leader Shi Dongsheng will not forget the first patient who died.
逝者 52 岁，收治时已属危重。
The deceased were 52 years old and critically ill at the time of admission.
通知家属时，「电话那头只是一句平静的『知道了』」——「一种放弃抗争的感觉」。
When notifying the family, "the other end of the line is just a quiet" know "-" a feeling of giving up the fight. "
如其所言，对于身处疫情之中又从未见到希望的个体，曾经的求助、呼喊，哭诉、叹惋，最终，或只能似碎片零散于尘埃，若锈蚀深埋在心底。
As said, in the midst of the epidemic and never see hope of the individuals, have to ask for help, cry, cry, regret, finally, or can only be scattered in the dust, if rust buried deep in the heart.
2 月 7 日，武汉市精神卫生中心一住院老人死亡，其家属在微博上「孤零」地记录过程后，再无更新。
On February 7, an elderly inpatient at Wuhan Mental Health Center died and his family did not update the process after recording it "in solitude" on Weibo.
3 月 8 日，一位失去母亲的女儿，接到殡仪馆通知，需等疫情结束，再具体安排家属「接回」：「现在，我丧失了现实中与人说话的能力，只剩下写字了」。
On March 8, a daughter who had lost her mother was told by the funeral home to wait until the outbreak was over and then arrange for the family to "pick up": "Now I have lost my ability to speak to people in real life and only have to write."
（主笔更多好文，可点击「阅读原文」）撰文：左异—Tips—我们的新书《生死之间》出版了可识别下方图片中的二维码购买偶尔治愈to-cure-sometimes——记录人与疾病、衰老、死亡的相处方式偶尔治愈 | 常常帮助 | 总是安慰。
Our new book, Between Life and Death, publishes two-dimensional code that recognizes the occasional cure to illness, aging, and death - an occasional cure for illness, aging, and death; and often helps and comforts.
左异。
On the left.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
已喜欢，对作者说句悄悄话。
Like it, whisper to the author.
发送给作者。
Send to author.
最多40字，当前共字。
Up to 40 words, currently in common.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情日记：试图安慰和拒绝遗忘。
Epidemic Diary: Trying to comfort and refuse to forget.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "偶尔治愈";。
Var nickname = & quot; occasionally cured & quot;;
var msg_title = "疫情日记：试图安慰和拒绝遗忘";。
var msg _ title = & quot; epidemic diary: an attempt to comfort and refuse to forget & quot;;
var msg_desc = "疫情之后，皆为珍贵史料，以窥冷暖人间。
var msg _ desc = & quot; after the outbreak, it was a precious source of insight into the world.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="偶尔治愈";。
var title = & quot; occasionally cured & quot;;
