在春天等待春天。
Waiting for spring in spring.
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
屠宰场收购李继发的鹅本文约2952字预计阅读时间8分钟作者| 中青报·中青网见习记者 尹海月编辑 |陈卓500只鸭子的命保住了。
Slaughterhouse buys goose by Li Jifa About 2952 words Estimated reading time 8 minutes Author & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Young Chinese News & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
断粮10天后，湖北宜昌的养殖户刘小红终于在2月11日拿到了村里开具的临时通行证，他联系到县城尚未营业的饲料经销商，购进2000斤饲料，保住了他仅剩的这些鸭子。
After 10 days without food, Liu Xiaolong, a farmer in Yichang, Hubei Province, finally got a temporary pass from the village on February 11. He contacted the county's non-operating feed dealers and bought 2,000 pounds of fodder to save his last ducks.
他本来养了2000只鸭子。
He used to keep 2, 000 ducks.
但是，新冠肺炎疫情来了，他和全国许多养殖户一样买不到饲料。
However, the outbreak of new crown pneumonia, he and many farmers across the country can not buy feed.
那段时间，刘小红每天早上醒来都看到鸭棚里东一只，西一只躺着的死鸭子，一天最少死100多只，最多死几百只。
At that time, Liu Xiaolong woke up every morning to see a duck in the east, west of a lying dead duck, a day at least more than 100 dead, a maximum of several hundred dead.
如今，在这个春天里，他开始要为这500只鸭子做打算了。
Now, in the spring, he began planning for the 500 ducks.
对于很多养殖户来说，春节是个重要的节点。
For many farmers, Spring Festival is an important node.
每年春节前后是活禽交易的高峰期，很多养殖户会选择在此期间将家禽集中出栏销售，然后再接下来的春天里投入资金，进行新一轮养殖。
The annual Spring Festival is the peak season for live poultry trading, during which many farmers choose to pool poultry for sale and then invest in a new round of farming in the following spring.
这个春天是在一个漫长的冬天之后才到来的。
The spring came only after a long winter.
在疫情笼罩下，有鸡苗孵化厂活埋一批批幼苗，也有养殖户将滞销的家禽扔进了土坑，不少人在这个寒冬“一夜回到解放前”，几年的资金积累迅速清零，甚至面临负债。
In the face of the epidemic, there are chicken hatching plant live batch of seedlings, but also fish farmers to throw the unsold poultry into the pit, many people "overnight back to liberation" in this winter, a few years of capital accumulation rapidly zero, even face debt.
他们必须想办法熬过这个春天。
They must get through the spring somehow.
1春天的消息，是陆续传来的。
The news of spring is coming from time to time.
2月15日，农业农村部等三部门印发通知要求加快养殖业复工复产。
On 15 February, the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, among others, issued a circular to accelerate the resumption of aquaculture production.
除武汉等疫情严重的城市外，各地临时关闭的高速路口开始恢复，被挖断的农村公路正在逐渐畅通。
In addition to Wuhan and other seriously affected cities, temporary closure of high-speed junctions began to resume, the cut-off of rural roads is gradually open.
刘小红2月11日拿到临时通行证去拉饲料时，四五公里的路要经过不下10个十字路口，每个路口都要停车检查，刘小红看到街上空空荡荡，为了阻止人们外出，每个路口只设置了红灯。
When Liu Xiaolong got a temporary pass to pull the feed on Feb. 11, 45 kilometers of the road had to go through no less than 10 crossroads, every intersection has to stop check, Liu saw the street empty, to prevent people from going out, each junction only set a red light.
即使如此，这也是一个好消息。
Even so, this is good news.
他养的鸭子从2月1日开始断粮，后来，邻居家田里的蔬菜，帮他渡过了一道难关——因为疫情封路，蔬菜卖不出去在地里烂掉，刘小红每天就开着三轮车，去方圆十几里的菜地里砍菜拉回来喂鸭子。
His ducks began to starve on Feb. 1, and vegetables from a neighbor's field helped him through a notoriety that blocked the way for vegetables to rot in the ground. Liu drove her tricycle every day to cut vegetables from a dozen miles of vegetable fields and feed them to the ducks.
只靠蔬菜养不活这2000只鸭子，他又去邻居家池塘里捞鱼——受疫情影响，鱼也滞销死在池塘里。
Living on vegetables alone, the 2, 000 ducks went to a neighbor's pond to fish for fish - affected by the outbreak and the fish died in the pond.
艰难撑过10天后，他终于等来了封锁的道路一点点解冻。
After a 10-day ordeal, he finally waited for the blockade to thaw.
刘小红从隔壁运来滞销的鱼喂鸭但并不是所有的养殖户都能顺利等到这一天。
Liu Xiao Hong brought unsalable fish from next door to feed the ducks but not all the farmers could wait until the day.
湖北黄冈的养殖户朱斌养了1万多只鸡，它们每日要消耗五六千元的饲料。
Huanggang farmers in Huanggang raise more than 10,000 chickens, which consume 5,000 yuan a day in feed.
自疫情发生以来，朱斌每天都在关注疫情进展，眼看确诊病例每日持续增长，朱斌一直向屠宰场询问开工日期，结果都是不断延迟。
Since the outbreak of the outbreak, Zhu Bin has been watching the progress of the epidemic on a daily basis, see confirmed cases continue to increase daily, Zhu Bin has been the slaughterhouse to ask the start date, the results are constantly delayed.
这让朱斌觉得，“在一个月之后肯定就没希望了。
This makes Zhu Bin feel, "After a month certainly no hope.
”衡量之下，朱斌决定埋鸡。
By measurement, Zhu decided to bury the chickens.
1万多只活蹦乱跳的鸡被装进袋子倒入土坑，消毒水、石灰紧接着被撒入坑中，伴随着挖掘机的土落下，鸡的生命提前终结了。
More than 10,000 live chickens were packed into pits, disinfectant and lime were immediately thrown into the pit, and the chickens came to an early end with the fall of the excavator.
朱斌成了最早埋鸡的一批养殖户。
Zhu Bin became one of the first broiler farmers.
湖北黄冈养殖户刘传厚的9万只鸡也在正月十五被掩埋。
Liu Chuanhou farmers in Huanggang Hubei 90, 000 chickens were also buried in the first 15 months.
他估计自己这次损失达100万元以上，多年的积累付之东流，“全赔光了。
He estimated that he had lost more than one million yuan this time. After years of accumulating, he lost all his money.
”受到冲击的不仅是养殖户，因各地关闭活禽交易，交通运输受阻，鸡苗（刚出壳的雏鸡）无法运到养殖场，很多孵化厂只能将疫情期间孵化的鸡苗掩埋处理。
Not only are farmers being affected by the closure of live poultry trade, traffic is blocked, chickens (fresh-shelled chicks) cannot reach farms, and many hatcheries can only bury chickens hatched during the outbreak.
中国农科院家禽研究所位于江苏扬州，该研究所在湖南的鸡苗销售总代理王仁瑞告诉记者，由于鸡苗无法从江苏运入湖南，湖南省正月向研究所订购的30万羽鸡苗也被掩埋。
Wang Renrui, the institute's general agent for chicken seedling sales in Hunan, which is based in Yangzhou, Jiangsu Province, told reporters that 300,000 hens ordered from the institute in January were also buried because chicken seedlings could not be brought into Hunan from Jiangsu Province.
广州一家鸡苗孵化厂相关人士告诉记者，广东鸡苗在正月的销售集中在初六至正月二十之间，在此期间，全省约有三分之二的鸡苗因无法运达养殖场被处理掉。
Guangzhou chicken seedling hatching plant related sources told reporters that Guangdong chicken seedlings in January sales concentrated between the sixth day of January 20, during which time about two-thirds of the province's chicken seedlings could not be delivered to the farm was disposed of.
该主管向记者介绍，由于担心疫情持续，部分孵化厂采取了一定应急措施延迟鸡苗孵化的时间。
The director told reporters, because of concerns about the continuation of the epidemic, some hatching plants have taken certain emergency measures to delay the hatching of chicken seedlings.
2月底，广东、江西、安徽、甘肃等地发文要求逐渐放开活禽市场，由于短期内孵化厂供应量减少，养殖户对鸡苗需求量上升，各地的鸡苗价格上涨。
At the end of February, Guangdong, Jiangxi, Anhui, Gansu and other places issued letters calling for the gradual liberalization of the live poultry market.
“最低一块六的鸡苗现在都涨到两块一、两块二了。
"Now the chicken shoots of the lowest piece of six have risen to two dollars, a dollar and a two.
我们的鸡苗价格以前是四块八，现在都涨到五块五了。
The price of our chicken seedlings, which used to be four dollars and eight dollars, has gone up to five dollars and a half.
”向中国农科院家禽研究订购鸡苗的湖南湘潭养殖户陈雨聪告诉记者。
Chen Yucong, a Hunan Xiangtan farmer who ordered chicken seedlings for poultry research at the Chinese Academy of Sciences, told reporters.
鸡苗价格上涨使得养殖户的养殖成本进一步增加。
The rising cost of chicken seedlings has further increased the cost of breeding farmers.
不过，中国农科院家禽研究所的鸡苗价格一直稳定，陈雨聪未受市场波及。
However, the poultry research institute of the Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences has been stable prices, Chen Yucong unaffected by the market.
但对陈雨聪来说，鸡苗不能及时到货意味着全年生产计划的延迟，他们将无法在端午节赶上鸡蛋的价格高峰，也无法赶得及在2021年的春节来临前出售。
But Chen's failure to get the chickens in time means delaying production plans throughout the year, and they won't be able to catch the peak prices of eggs on Dragon Boat Festival or sell them before the Spring Festival in 2021.
2疫情到来之前，很多人对这个春天抱有期望。
Before the outbreak, many people expected this spring.
那时刘小红的鸭子刚刚开始产蛋。
Liu's ducks were just beginning to lay eggs.
刘小红从事养殖已有六七年。
Liu Xiaohong has been farming for six or seven years.
蛋鸭养殖时间长，不急于出售，他靠卖蛋获取利润。
Egg and duck farming for a long time, do not rush to sell, he sells eggs for a profit.
2019年年底，鸭子终于开始产蛋了，虽然温度低、产蛋量少，但刘小红很高兴，他将300个蛋全部送给了亲戚朋友，等待春节后，鸭子产蛋量慢慢增加，再集中销售。
By the end of 2019, the duck had finally started laying eggs. Although the temperature was low and egg production was low, Liu was pleased that he had given all 300 eggs to relatives and friends.
“当时觉得终于可以开始回本了。
"It felt like we could finally get back to Ben.
”刘小红从心里估算着能赚多少钱，按照最低行情，一个鸭蛋可赚0.25元，按照每日90%的下蛋率，1800只蛋一天能赚450元，一个月下来能赚1万多元。
"Liu estimated from her heart how much money she would make. At rock bottom, a duck egg would earn 0.25 yuan, while at 90 percent a day, 1,800 eggs would earn 450 yuan a day and 10,000 yuan a month.
“我以前是打工的，觉得（能挣这些）也可以了。
"I used to be a part-time worker and thought it was OK.
”刘小红说。
"said Liu Xiaohong.
河南漯河商桥镇刘孟村村民陈松涛也对即将到来的春节充满期待。
Chen Songtao, a villager from Liu Mengcun, a town in Luohe, Henan Province, is also looking forward to the coming Spring Festival.
以前，陈松涛也在外面打工，2017年，他患上尿毒症，每天要去医院做两次透析，没有了收入来源，成了村里的贫困户。
Chen, who previously worked outside, contracted uremia in 2017 and went to the hospital twice a day for dialysis. Without a source of income, he became a poor family in the village.
为了维持生计， 2019年，陈松涛向村里贷款2.5万元，又和亲戚借款二十几万元，从广西购进4000羽鸡苗养鸡。
To make ends meet, in 2019 Chen Songtao loaned 25,000 yuan to the village and 200,000 yuan to relatives to buy 4,000 hens and chickens from Guangxi.
他计划将3000多只麻鸡在正月十五出售，想着至少能赚1万元元。
He plans to sell more than 3,000 chickens on the 15th of the first month, hoping to make at least 10,000 yuan.
疫情的到来打破了原本的期望。
The arrival of the outbreak shattered expectations.
正月初八，陈松涛想进饲料，但出不去门。
January 8, Chen Sontao want to feed, but can not get out of the door.
到2月24日时，陈松涛的饲料也只剩下半吨。
By February 24, Chen had only half a ton of feed left.
因为没钱买饲料，陈松涛每天只给鸡喂食一次。
With no money to buy fodder, Chen feeds chickens only once a day.
晚上，他将鸡棚里的灯关掉，鸡会卧着不动。
At night, he would turn off the lights in the chicken coop and the chickens would lie still.
但天一亮，鸡还是饿得乱飞。
But as the day dawned, the chickens were still hungry.
他必须想方设法把鸡卖出去。
He must try to sell the chicken.
起初是靠亲戚朋友宣传。
It was initially promoted by relatives and friends.
村里主道封堵，有人买，他就去找泥土道儿出去送货。
The main road in the village was blocked and someone bought it, so he went to the dirt track to deliver goods.
后来，村、镇里的干部开始帮助陈松涛卖鸡，还把这事儿登上了《漯河日报》。
Subsequently, cadres from the village and the town began to help Chen Songtao sell chickens, and the matter was put on the Luohe Daily.
3月2日，陈松涛的鸡卖完了。
Chen's chickens sold out on March 2.
对养殖户们来说，这些家禽每滞销一天，就意味着多一天的成本损失。
For farmers, each day of unsold poultry means an extra day of lost costs.
在河南商丘，李继发的3000只鹅在正月初十左右出栏，也面临滞销。
In Henan Shangqiu, Li Jifa 3000 geese in the first month around the tenth column, also facing unsalable.
3000多只肉鹅每日要消耗2000元的饲料，“你不卖，一天就要赔2000元。
More than 3,000 geese consume 2,000 yuan a day in feed. "If you don't sell it, you'll pay 2,000 yuan a day
”2月26日，他等来了屠宰场的运输车，但是，由于运输成本高，出栏量大，李继发的3000多只鹅最终只卖5元多一斤，“去年这个时候肉鹅价格是9元左右。
"On February 26, he waited for the slaughter-house wagon, but because of the high transportation costs and the volume of the railings, Li's more than 3,000 geese ended up selling for only five yuan more than a kilo.
”这让李继发最终损失了十来万元。
This cost Li an eventual loss of about 100,000 yuan.
资金链紧张是多数养殖户当前面临最迫切的问题。
The financial chain is the most urgent problem facing most farmers.
埋了9万只鸡之后，刘传厚思考最多的问题如何在这个春天尽快筹集启动资金，他正寻找能申请到无息贷款的渠道。
After burying 90, 000 chickens, Mr. Liu's biggest question is how to raise start-up capital as soon as possible this spring. He is looking for ways to apply for an interest-free loan.
养殖还将继续。
Farming will continue.
朱斌打算解封后再进鸡苗。
Zhu Bin intends to unpack the chicken seedlings.
突降的危机也未让刘小红对养殖失去信心，在为鸭子“口粮”奔波的二十几天里，刘小红曾一度消沉，“我认为这也做不好，那也不行。
The sudden crisis has not let Liu Xiaolong to the cultivation of confidence, in the "food rations" for the last 20 days, Liu Xiaohong once depressed, "I think this is not good, that is not possible.
”刘小红去年养猪，赶上2019年的猪瘟，200只猪只卖掉20只，其余全部得病活埋，损失二三十万元。
"Liu raised pigs last year and caught up with 2019, when 200 pigs were sold. The rest were buried alive and lost 2.3 million yuan.
“当时就觉得这个病太厉害了，不敢再喂猪了。
"I thought it was too sick to feed the pig any more.
”刘小红于是转为养鸭，想着喂两年再养猪。
"Liu Xiaohong then turned to duck farming, thinking of feeding two years before raising pigs.
疫情让他的希望再一次泡汤。
The outbreak once again dashed his hopes.
“还不如跟哥几个打工去。
"Better to work with some of my brothers.
”刘小红一个人静下来想时，总觉得心里难受。
"Liu Xiaohong felt sick when she thought about it alone.
转眼一想，又觉得打工没什么意思，他不断给自己做心理建设，要重新振作，“在哪里跌倒，在哪里爬起来。
On second thought, he thought it was no fun to work, so he kept building his mind again. "Where to fall and where to get up."
”几年摸索下来，刘小红觉得还是养猪简单一些，效益也比养鸭高。
"A few years grope down, Liu Xiaohong thinks still raise pig simple, benefit is also higher than raise duck.
2019年年末，他重新进了40头猪，猪吃得少，没受到饲料问题的困扰。
By the end of 2019, he had re-entered 40 pigs, who ate less and were not bothered by feed problems.
等疫情过后，刘小红决定把鸭子全部卖掉，专心养猪。
After the outbreak, Liu Xiaohong decided to sell all the ducks and concentrate on raising pigs.
他计划着端午将猪卖掉，再进一批新猪仔。
He plans to sell the pigs at Dragon Boat Day and bring in a new batch of pigs.
如今，刘小红每天最开心的事就是喂猪，看着猪一哄而上，撒欢儿发出叫声，刘小红的心情也跟着好起来。
Now, Liu Xiaohong's daily most happy thing is to feed pigs, watching pigs a cauldron, happy children cry, Liu Xiaohong's mood is also good.
眼前的40头猪是他对2020年全部的希望。
The 40 pigs in front of him are all he wants for 2020.
中国青年报·中国青年网出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
China Youth Daily & amp; China Youth Net & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
在春天等待春天。
Waiting for spring in spring.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "在春天等待春天";。
var msg _ title = & quot; waited for spring & quot;; in the spring.
var msg_desc = "疫情下的养殖户，如何复工复产";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; how AT & quot; reinstated & quot; in an epidemic situation.
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
