全国超八成医务人员仍未收到防疫补助，湖北省内外落实差异明显。
More than 80 percent of medical workers nationwide have not received vaccination subsidies, Hubei Province and the implementation of significant differences.
丁香园 DXY。
DXY, Lilac Garden.
丁香园                      。
Cloves Garden.
丁香园。
Cloves Garden.
千万医务工作者的网上家园。
tens of millions of medical workers online homes.
我们深知医疗的痛苦与快乐，在丁香园里，您可以了解最新资讯、阅读深度报道，并与同行进行交流。
We are well aware of the pain and joy of medical care. In the clove garden, you can learn the latest news, read in-depth reports and communicate with your peers.
。
.
截至 3 月 8 日，全国支援武汉和湖北医疗队员已达 4.26 万人，除湖北地区外，也有大量医护人员在后方全力对抗新冠病毒肆虐。
As of March 8, the number of medical personnel supporting Wuhan and Hubei provinces had reached 42,600, and a large number of medical personnel were fighting the new crown virus in the rear.
为保障前线医务人员的利益，让他们的付出得到应有的回报，国家和各地方都出台了医务人员的补助政策。
In order to protect the interests of front-line medical personnel and to ensure that their efforts are duly rewarded, the State and local authorities have introduced subsidies for medical personnel.
各地防疫补助政策有何差异？各地防疫补助到账情况如何？补助类型有哪些？哪些医务人员才符合防疫补助的标准？……为了解医务人员补助落实情况，丁香园联合丁香人才进行问卷调研，为大家带来真实的补助现状报告。
What is the difference between the vaccination subsidy policies of different places? What is the status of epidemic prevention subsidy? What are the types of subsidies? What are the medical personnel who meet the standards of the epidemic prevention subsidy?...... To understand the implementation of the medical assistance, clove garden united clove talent survey, bring us a true subsidy status report.
全国各地补助政策有何差异？1 月 25 日，财政部、国家卫生健康委联合下发通知提出，对参加防疫的医务人员发放临时补助：「按照一类补助标准，对直接接触待排查病例或确诊病例，诊断、治疗、护理、医院感染控制、病例标本采集和病原检测等工作相关人员，中央财政按照每人每天 300 元予以补助；对于参加疫情防控的其他医务人员和防疫工作者，中央财政按照每人每天 200 元予以补助。
On January 25, the Ministry of Finance and the State Council of Health jointly issued a circular providing temporary subsidies to medical personnel participating in epidemic prevention: "In accordance with the standard for category I assistance, the central treasury will subsidize the direct contact with patients or confirmed cases, diagnosis, treatment, care, control of nosocomial infection, collection of case specimens and pathogen detection.
」随后，各省市财政部门、总工会相继出台政策，对医务人员发放临时工作补助、一次性补助、慰问金等。
Subsequently, provincial and municipal finance departments and general trade unions issued policies to grant temporary work subsidies, one-time subsidies and consolation grants to medical personnel.
如湖北地区额外提出将一线医务人员临时性工作补助提高 1 倍，薪酬水平提高 2 倍；浙江新增了租房补贴，减免 1～3 月租金；山东提出了伙食补助，标准为每人每天 100～200 元；广东提出对因公感染新冠病毒医务人员补助 3 万等。
For example, in Hubei Province, an additional one-time work subsidy for front-line medical workers was proposed to be doubled and the salary level tripled. In Zhejiang, a rental subsidy of one to three months was added; Shandong offered a meal allowance ranging from 100 to 200 yuan per person per day; and Guangdong offered a subsidy of 30,000 yuan to medical personnel for service-related infections.
丁香人才根据各地政策汇总整理扫码进入丁香人才后台在对话框回复：补助查看全国各省一线医务人员补助福利政策盘点全国超八成医务人员仍未收到补助湖北省 42% 人员补助已到账本次共收到 1900 份有效问卷，调查结果显示共 12% 的医务人员已经收到补助，88% 的人暂未收到。
A total of 1,900 valid questionnaires have been received in Hubei Province, and the results show that 12 percent of medical personnel have received subsidies and 88 percent have not received them yet.
其中，湖北省内医务人员收到补助的比例较高，为 42%，但湖北省外仅有 6% 的医务人员表示收到了补助。
A higher proportion of medical workers in Hubei province received subsidies, 42 percent, but only 6 percent of those outside Hubei province said they received subsidies.
除湖北省外，医务人员收到补贴比例最高的前 6 个省份分别是上海、湖南、江苏、辽宁、江西、重庆，补贴落实表现较好。
With the exception of Hubei Province, the top six provinces with the highest subsidy rates are Shanghai, Hunan, Jiangsu, Liaoning, Jiangxi and Chongqing.
在定点医院和援鄂医务人员补助落实情况较好调查显示，在定点医院工作的医务人员收到补贴比例较非定点医院高 2 倍。
The survey on the implementation of the subsidy for medical personnel in designated hospitals and medical aid in Hubei shows that the rate of subsidy received by medical personnel working in designated hospitals is two times higher than in non-designated hospitals.
点此进入定点医院招聘专场而在支援湖北的医务人员当中，有 45% 的人收到了补贴，仍有 55% 的人还未收到补贴。
About 45% of the medical staff supporting Hubei received subsidies, while 55% had not yet received subsidies.
调查显示，只有 4% 的医务人员在政策出台后不久就收到了补助，还有 4% 的人收到了和工资奖金一起发放的补助，9%的人表示的补助分多次发放，而绝大多数（83%）补助还未到账。
The survey showed that only 4 per cent of health workers received benefits shortly after the introduction of the policy, 4 per cent received benefits in conjunction with a salary bonus, 9 per cent received multiple benefits and the vast majority (83 per cent) had not yet arrived.
国家临时性补助发放为主内科收到补助比例最高在有补贴医务人员中，33% 的人收到以国家临时补助为主，其他依次为其他类型补助（例如牛奶、蔬菜、方便面等）、一次性慰问补助、伙食补助、卫生防疫津贴和地方额外补助。
The highest rates of assistance received by the State for temporary State benefits are among subsidized medical personnel, 33 per cent of whom receive temporary State benefits, followed by other types of assistance (e.g. milk, vegetables, instant noodles, etc.), one-off benefits, meal allowances, health and epidemic prevention benefits and additional local allowances.
据调查显示，内科医务人员收到补助的比例最高。
According to the survey, medical staff received the highest percentage of subsidies.
但在疫情面前，很多医院由于人手不足，所有科室都是临危受命，不分你我。
But in the face of the epidemic, many hospitals because of insufficient staff, all departments are under orders, do not distinguish between you and me.
为了保持医院各项机能正常运转，穿上白大褂、不分昼夜工作的情况已经是司空见惯。
In order to maintain the proper functioning of hospitals, it is common to wear white coats and work day and night.
我们也希望在分发补助的时候，也可以考虑到检验科、影像放射科等在战线后方支持的科室。
We also hope that the distribution of subsidies can also take into account the laboratory, imaging radiology and other departments in the back of the front line support.
点此查看你所在科室薪资据调查，公立医院已收到补助的人员占比为 12%，比例最高，其次是疾控中心，而民营医院相比之下比例最低。
Click here to look at your department's payroll survey. Public hospitals have received the highest percentage of grants at 12%, followed by CDC, with the lowest proportion in private hospitals.
事实上，非公医疗在此次疫情中也起了非常积极的作用。
In fact, non-public health care has also played a very positive role in the epidemic.
中国医院协会民营医院分会的统计数据显示，截至 2 月 7 日，在 13 个省、市和自治区共有 633 家非公立医院参与抗击疫情，作为定点医疗救治机构。
Statistics from the private hospital branch of the Chinese Hospital Association show that as of February 7, 633 non-public hospitals in 13 provinces, cities and autonomous regions had taken part in the fight against the epidemic as designated medical treatment institutions.
但作为战疫一份子，TA 们收到的补助比重却很小。
But as a part of the epidemic, the TAs receive a small share of the subsidy.
「一线医务人员」国家标准出台等待补助落实3 月 12 日，国务院发布了最新的国务院应对新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情联防联控机制发布《关于聚焦一线贯彻落实保护关心爱护医务人员措施的通知》（以下简称《通知》）。
On March 12, the State Council issued the latest State Council Circular on Handling New Coronavirus Infection with Pneumonia by Focusing on the Implementation of Measures to Protect Health Care Workers (hereinafter referred to as the Notice).
通知称，一些地方在执行和落实中存在对象不精准、执行不严格、工作不规范、落实不到位等问题。
According to the circular, in some places, there are problems of inaccurate objects, lax implementation, irregular work and inadequate implementation in implementation and enforcement.
在通知中，对一线医务人员作出了详细界定：「疫情防控期间按照政府统一部署、卫生健康部门调派或医疗卫生机构要求，直接参与新冠肺炎防疫和救治一线工作，且与确诊或疑似病例直接接触的接诊、筛查、检查、检测、转运、治疗、护理、流行病学调查、医学观察，以及直接进行病例标本采集、病原检测、病理检查、病理解剖的医疗卫生专业技术人员。
In the circular, frontline medical personnel are defined in detail as follows: "Medical professionals who are directly involved in frontline immunization and treatment of new crown pneumonia during epidemic prevention and control, in direct contact with confirmed or suspected cases, treatment, care, epidemiological investigation, medical observation and direct collection of case specimens, pathogen testing, pathology and pathology.
」此外，通知还发布一系列措施：卫生防疫津贴扩大到全体一线医务人员；轮休、隔离不影响正常工资福利待遇；做好一线医务人员的饮食营养等保障；工作补助、津贴等不得按行政级别确定标准；严禁有章不循、巧立名目、虚报冒领等行为等。
In addition, the circular also issued a series of measures: health and epidemic prevention allowance is extended to all frontline medical personnel; rotation and isolation do not affect normal salary and welfare benefits; food, nutrition and other safeguards for front-line medical staff; work subsidies and allowances should not be determined by administrative level; and non-compliance, false pretences and false claims are strictly prohibited.
目前，补助最终落实仍需要各地医院的判断执行，希望地方加大监督检查力度，严格进行登记、审核、报批，及时公示公开。
At present, the final implementation of subsidies still needs to be implemented by local hospitals. We hope that the local authorities will step up supervision and inspection, strictly register, examine and submit for approval, and make them public in a timely manner.
对于已经被明确被界定为在一线、符合现有补助标准的医务人员，TA 们在战疫前线与病毒殊死搏斗，我们希望 TA 们能实打实地拿到自己应有的补助，不要出现被克扣或不公平发放的现象。
As for the medical staff, who are clearly defined as frontline and eligible for the existing subsidy, TA is fighting the virus on the front line of the epidemic, and we hope that the TA will receive the benefits they deserve and that there will be no deductions or unfair payments.
疫情之下，医务人员的付出绝对不是能用金钱就能衡量的，TA 们也绝不是为了这些补助而上一线奋战。
Under the epidemic, the payment of medical personnel can never be measured with money, and the TA is not going to fight for these subsidies.
但凡有所付出者，理应得到回报，而实际的补助落实就是一种最切实的肯定，这是逆风前行之人应有的尊重和宽慰。
But those who give, deserve to be rewarded, and the actual implementation of subsidies is the most tangible affirmation, which is the respect and relief due to those who advance against the wind.
责任编辑：章佳琪、菁媛、gyouza题图来源：图虫创意↓↓↓ 点击「阅读原文」立刻开始找工作！。
Wee Dell Computers 2007-9-23 23: 23 Dell Computers Dell Computers Computers, Computers, Computers, Computers, Computers, Computers and other computers.
丁香园 DXY。
DXY, Lilac Garden.
更懂中国医生。
Know more about Chinese doctors.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
已喜欢，对作者说句悄悄话。
Like it, whisper to the author.
发送给作者。
Send to author.
最多40字，当前共字。
Up to 40 words, currently in common.
更懂中国医生。
Know more about Chinese doctors.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
全国超八成医务人员仍未收到防疫补助，湖北省内外落实差异明显。
More than 80 percent of medical workers nationwide have not received vaccination subsidies, Hubei Province and the implementation of significant differences.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "丁香园";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "全国超八成医务人员仍未收到防疫补助，湖北省内外落实差异明显";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "等待补助落实";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; awaiting payment to AT & quot;;
var title ="丁香园";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
