人在囧途之修火神山的农民工/* declared */。
People in need of repair to the mountain of fire god migrant workers / * declared * /.
人在囧途之修火神山的农民工<br>。
A migrant worker at Brooks Hill who has fallen by the wayside; br & gt;
| title       = 人在囧途之修火神山的农民工。
& # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
人在囧途之修火神山的农民工。
People in need of repair fire god mountain migrant workers.
南风窗                      。
South Window.
南风窗。
South Window.
冷静的力量。
The power of coolness.
按理说，他们不该出来。
They shouldn't have come out.
在汉水北面，崇仁路的路口被封起，一块块绿色铁板，用缠绕的铁丝连着。
In the north of Hanshui, Chongren Road junction was sealed, pieces of green iron plate, with winding wire connected.
那是武汉封闭社区用的临时的“墙”。
It was the makeshift "wall" of Wuhan's closed community.
但他们拧开铁丝，硬是开了道口子，小心翼翼侧身出来。
But they unscrewed the wire and gingerly slid out.
他们提防着警察和警车，因为疫情时期，本不允许聚集。
They were wary of the police and police cars, which were not allowed to gather during the outbreak.
刘胜强也钻了出来，在2月29日中午11点42分时，他立在路口，不耐烦地在朋友圈抱怨道：“这么多人翻墙过来。
Liu Shengqiang also drilled out, February 29 at 11: 42 noon, he stood in the intersection, impatiently in the circle of friends complained: "so many people over the wall.
但，不知道今天会配送吗？”他们等的，是一顿有热菜的午饭，天天吃泡面，胃都受不了了。
But don't know if it's going to be delivered today? "They waited for a hot lunch and ate noodles every day, and the stomach couldn't stand it.
他们不是乞讨者，也不是流浪汉，而是住在附近的工人。
They are not beggars or vagabonds, but workers who live nearby.
有的人和刘胜强一样，是修了火神山和雷神山医院回来的。
Some people and Liu Shengqiang, is to repair the fire god mountain and Lei Shenshan hospital back.
汉正街322附8号人越来越多了。
There are more and more people at 322 hanzheng street.
送饭的志愿者“可乐泡饭”说，在2月28日晚，这里只有十几个人，但过了一天，送饭的消息传开后，突然增加了二三十个。
On the night of Feb. 28, there were only a dozen people here, but one day after the news spread, there were suddenly twenty or thirty more.
因为有人送饭，崇仁路口变成一个“据点”。
Chongryon Junction turned into a "stronghold" because someone gave them food.
每到中午12点或下午5点半，是吃饭的时间了，他们就从附近过来聚集。
At twelve o'clock or half-past five in the afternoon, it was time to eat, and they gathered from the neighborhood.
但在29日这天中午，“餐车”没能准时，他们只好等着。
But on the 29th, at noon, the diner did not arrive on time, so they had to wait.
刘胜强等了半小时，12点一过，他翻“墙”回了出租屋。
Liu Shengqiang waited half an hour, after 12: 00, he turned the "wall" back to the rental housing.
又过了半小时，“餐车”终于来了，跟刘胜强同住的，有三四个人领到了盒饭和牛奶，满意地往回走。
Another half-hour later, the "dining car" finally came, with Liu Shengqiang, three or four people received boxed rice and milk, and returned satisfied.
李贺是其中一个，他刚回到出租屋，便把盒饭拆开，放在床上吃了。
He was one of them. Hardly had he returned to the rented room when he opened the box and ate it on the bed.
李贺是第一次去领盒饭，他很高兴，说：“吃了一礼拜泡面，终于吃到热的饭菜”。
Li He is the first time to collect boxed rice, he is very happy, said: "After a week of noodles, finally eat hot meals."
同住一起的有十五六人，都是参与了火神山与雷神山医院建设的工人。
Living with a total of 16 people, are involved in the fire god mountain and Lei Shenshan hospital construction workers.
崇仁路口，饭点时来等送餐的人员吃过中饭，李贺还不知道下一顿饭在哪。
Chongren junction, meal time to wait for the delivery of the personnel to eat lunch, Li He does not know where the next meal is.
他指了指自己的床底，里面是一箱泡面，他又摸着自己的肚子笑道：“顶不住了啊。
He pointed to the bottom of his bed, inside was a box of bubble noodles, he felt his belly laugh: "can not withstand ah.
”饭菜成为奢侈品。
The meal became a luxury.
刘胜强掰出4根指头，说：“现在的菜价贵了这么多。
Liu Shengqiang broke off four fingers and said, "Now the price of vegetables is so high.
”2月23日，他去找偷偷营业的商铺，买了一把油麦菜和几个茄子，就用白水煮了吃。
On February 23 he went to a shop where he worked clandestinely, bought a handful of oilseed rape and some eggplant and boiled them in white water.
两大碗菜汤，花了他50元。
Two bowls of vegetable soup. It cost him 50 yuan.
菜太贵了，他不得不节省。
The food was too expensive and he had to economize.
2月29日，他听到有人送盒饭的消息，以为是政府的救济，于是翻“墙”出去等着。
On 29 February, he heard that a packed meal had been delivered, thinking that it was the Government's relief, and went out to wait.
看到二三十个人等在路边。
Twenty or thirty people were waiting by the roadside.
其实，不是没有饭菜，只是他们住得太偏。
Actually, it's not that there is no food, but they live too far away.
他们住在汉正街322附8号，是个将要拆除的地方。
They live at No. 8, 322 Hanzheng Street, a place to be demolished.
进了崇仁路右转，能看见拆除的现场，楼房成了堆砌的砖石瓦砾，他们的“家”就藏在废墟里面。
Into the right of Chongren Road, you can see the demolition site, the building has become a pile of rubble, their "home" hidden in the ruins.
蓝色的铁门虚掩，上面写着：“拆迁区域，闲人莫入”。
The blue iron door, which read: "Demolition area, no one to enter."
幸好，废墟般的居住环境，租金也相当低廉。
Fortunately, the ruins of the living environment, rent is also quite low.
李贺睡在大通铺。
He sleeps in a big bunk.
房子将要拆除，早就腾空了，整栋楼没有一扇完整的窗户，只是个空荡荡的楼架子。
The house was to be demolished and emptied long ago. The whole building did not have a complete window, just an empty shelf.
大通铺在一楼，阳光不能照进，里面摆了十多张床。
Large spread in the ground floor, the sun can not enter, there are more than a dozen beds.
十几个工友住在这里，租金一天10块钱。
A dozen workmates live here at ten yuan a day.
汉正街322附8号的大通铺（图/Lily）即便如此便宜，李贺也快住不起了。
Even if it's cheap, Li He won't be able to afford it.
他是打短工的，1月初才住到这里，修火神山和雷神山的工钱，在滞留武汉期间全花光了。
He worked as a casual laborer and only came here in early January to fix the wages of Mount Fire and Mount Raytheon, but he ran out during his stay in Wuhan.
现在的他，买不起高价菜，也叫不起外卖，志愿者送的饭，是他泡面以外的唯一指望。
Now, he can not afford to buy high-priced dishes, can not call take-out, volunteers sent food, is his only hope beyond bubble noodles.
说话时，有人在公用厨房洗菜，几只老鼠就从下水道出来，一路窜进大通铺底下。
While talking, someone was washing dishes in the communal kitchen. Several mice came out of the sewer and jumped into the bottom of the big shop.
李贺笑道：“别管它，多着呢。
"Never mind it," he said with a smile.
”张勇也快撑不住了，他去火神山两次，去雷神山三次，日薪虽然高，但架不住留在武汉的花销。
Zhang Yong could hardly hold up. He went to Mount Fire twice and to Mount LeiShenshan three times a day.
2月27日，他实在馋得不行，去社区登记买了一块肉，“巴掌大的一块猪肉，就够一个人尝尝，花了40多块钱”。
On February 27, rather greedy, he went to the community and bought a piece of meat. "A piece of pork the size of a palm is enough for one person and costs more than 40 yuan."
他很郁闷。
He is very depressed.
其实，只差一点，他就能离开武汉的。
In fact, only a little, he will be able to leave Wuhan.
他在武汉打临工，多做一天多一份钱，所以车票买在了除夕前一天，1月23日的早上9点55分，离“封城”只有5分钟。
He worked in Wuhan, doing more than a day, so the tickets were bought the day before the New Year's Eve, January 23 at 9: 55 a.m., "closed" only five minutes away.
他以为情况不算严重，大街上戴口罩的也少，就到了时间点才去车站。
Believing that the situation was not serious and that few people were wearing masks on the streets, he went to the station at exactly the time.
没想到快10点时，车站不许游客进了。
I didn't expect the visitor to enter the station near 10 o'clock.
封城后的武汉没办法，他回到了出租屋。
After the closure of Wuhan can not do, he returned to the rental housing.
对他来说，手停口停，只能再去找活干。
For him, the hand stopped and he had to go back to work.
硚口区人力资源市场只有几百米远，走过去要十分钟左右。
Zhangkou human resources market is only a few hundred meters away, walking about 10 minutes.
张勇就蹲在市场前的马路边，早上5点和下午6点，都有带班的人来这找工人做事。
Zhang Yong squatted in front of the market on the roadside, at 5 a.m. and 6 p.m., there are lead workers here to find workers.
他记不清第一次去火神山的时间，只是带班的人说了有活干，他就跟着12个人一起，挤上了金杯面包车。
He couldn't remember the first time he went to Mount Fire, but the men on the shift told him there was work, so he followed the twelve and packed the golden cup into the van.
到了地儿，他抬头一看，才知道是修火神山医院。
When he got to the ground, he looked up and saw that it was the Fire Goddess Mountain Hospital.
他其实想打退堂鼓，改为那时的工地还没有发口罩，人又多，他害怕防护不足被传染，但还是硬着头皮干了。
In fact, he wanted to retreat, the construction site has not yet put on masks, more people, he was afraid of insufficient protection was infected, but still braved dry.
“其实心里清楚，当时没啥别的活做。
"In fact, I knew there was nothing else to do.
再说，10个人里9个人都做，不可能就你不做。
Besides, nine out of ten people do it. You can't just do it.
”“赚钱很容易的”第一次去火神山，张勇做的是杂活，用小推车转移挖出来的土块。
"It was easy to make money" The first time he went to Mount Fire, Zhang Yong did chores, using trolleys to remove excavated dirt blocks.
从早上8点做到下午7点，算10.5个小时，他领到了四五百块工钱。
From 8 a.m. to 7 p.m., or 10.5 hours, he was paid four or five hundred dollars.
第二次去火神山，他做拉电缆的工作，给病房通电，火神山在这天正式交付（2月2日）。
The second time he went to Mount Fire, he did the work of pulling cables and electrifying the ward. Mount Fire was officially delivered on that day (February 2).
他仍兴奋地回忆，那天孙春兰副总理来了，就站在距离他不到三米的地方。
He is still excited to recall that the day the Deputy Prime Minister Sun Chunlan came, standing less than three meters away from him.
拉电缆的活是在下午接的，张勇做到将近凌晨。
The work of pulling the cable was answered in the afternoon. Zhang Yong did it near dawn.
他清楚地记得，给的工钱是580元。
He remembered clearly that he had been paid 580 yuan.
张勇打听到，工钱的大头被工头拿走了，但他没有办法。
Zhang Yong learned that the bulk of the money had been taken away by the foreman, but he could do nothing.
临工的活儿本就是层层下包来的，中间经手的人要抽“油水”，张勇是理解的。
Tailored work is the layers of subcontracting, the middle of the people to smoke "oil and water," Zhang Yong is understanding.
他只是恼怒，抽的未免太多。
He was just irritated and smoked too much.
2月4日，武汉雷神山医院建设工地，来自中建三局的建设工人在加紧施工刘胜强倒有一次“奇遇”。
February 4, Wuhan Lei Shenshan Hospital construction site, from the construction workers from the three Bureau of intensive construction Liu Sheng-qiang had an "adventure.
2月1日，他到火神山去做杂工，到了结账的时候，一个领导模样的人过来，问他：“（带班的人）给你们开了多少钱？赶快说，不然我解决不了。
On February 1, he went to work as a handyman at Mount Fire. At the checkout time, a leading figure came up to him and asked him, "How much did you get paid for it?
”他心里犹豫着如何应答。
He hesitated to answer.
带班的人承诺的是800元，他担心说出来太少，又害怕抬得太高，就说了个中间数：1500元。
The man in charge promised 800 yuan, and fearing to say too little and raising it too high, he said the middle figure: 1,500 yuan.
没想到，过问的领导发火了，他对带班的人说：“你敢发国难财！”他又对着刘胜强一班工人说：“你们知道这一晚是多少钱吗？你们做了两个班，应该发3000块钱！”带班的人想先结账，多抽油水早了事，刘胜强不乐意。
I didn't expect him to be angry with his superior, and he said to the class: "Do you dare to make a fortune?" He said to the class: "Do you know how much this night? You did two classes, should pay 3000 yuan!"
有7个工人是他叫来的，他们8人一起到了项目部闹。
He called in seven of the workmen, and eight of them went to the project department together.
最后，带班的人抽了200块，他们每人得了2800块。
Finally, the man in charge smoked 200 yuan and each of them got 2,800 yuan.
“上面是好的，但到了中介这，就一层一层的剥。
"It's good, but when you get to the middleman, it's just a layer of peeling.
不是那位领导，我们就被抽掉了2200块血汗钱！”刘胜强说，其他40多个工友不敢闹，就被带班的人克扣掉了。
Without that leader, we would have been drained of 2,200 blood money, "said Liu Shengqiang, more than 40 other workers dare not make trouble, they were taken away from the class.
2月4日，新华社记者在武汉雷神山医院施工工地上采访可惜，“奇迹”只发生了一次，往后带班的再来叫人，先说好价钱，爱干不干。
On February 4, Xinhua News Agency reporters in Wuhan Lei Shenshan Hospital construction site interview unfortunately, "miracles" only happened once, the next to call people, first agreed price, love to do.
火神山收治病人后，张勇不敢去干活了，由于前期的工地还没有发口罩，他花18元买的一个N95口罩用了四五天，他怕再去做事会很危险。
Zhang Yong dared not go to work after receiving patients from Mount Fire. He spent four or five days on a N95 mask he spent 18 yuan on because he had not yet put a mask on the construction site.
与他同住的工友也是一样，他们的口罩常常从白色用到泛黑，理论上没什么防护效果可言。
The same is true of his fellow workers, whose masks are often used from white to black, with little theoretical protection.
刘胜强自嘲说：“咱这群人挺贼的。
Liu Shengqiang said to himself: "We are a lot of thieves.
”他说，明显有风险的活儿，再多的钱他们也不去。
'There's obviously risky work, and they won't go for more money, 'he says.
有一次刮大风，带班的人叫去修医院，做几小时2000元，他们不去。
One windy day, the man with the shift called to repair the hospital and did 2,000 yuan for a few hours.
还有一次，带班的叫人代班抬尸体，干一天能挣15000元，他们也不去。
On another occasion, the foreman had his body carried in his place, and he could earn fifteen thousand dollars a day, and they would not go.
不是不贪财，张勇解释说：“咱这的环境，一个遭了，全都要遭，谁好意思做这个罪魁祸首？”或许正因为谨慎，他们在市区往返打工，整个2月份还没出现一个有症状的。
Not covetous, Zhang Yong explained: "Our environment, one suffered, all will suffer, who is willing to do this culprit?" Perhaps because of caution, they have been working in the city, without any symptoms throughout February.
但是肚子饿了，规矩就顾不上了。
But when I'm hungry, rules don't apply.
2月29日，天又要黑了，李贺和几名工友再次翻“墙”，在路口等待志愿者送餐。
On Feb. 29, it was getting dark again. He and several workmates turned over the "wall" again and waited for the volunteers to deliver their food.
他们知道不能聚集，但路口的人明显更多了，近40个人在这里枯坐。
They knew they couldn't get together, but the number of people at the intersection was noticeably higher, with nearly 40 people sitting dead here.
志愿者送饭现场（图/Lily）没看到“餐车”，先等来警车，他们一哄而散。
The volunteers were waiting for the police car before they saw the dining car. They dispersed.
警车里传来喇叭声，提醒他们在疫情时期，人员不能聚集，让他们回到住处。
Horns honked from inside the police car, reminding them that they could not gather to return to their homes during the outbreak.
有警察下车示意，他们纷纷走散避开了。
The police stepped out and motioned that they had strayed away.
但是，他们没有走远，不一会儿警车走了，他们就又回到路口聚集。
However, they did not go far, a short time after the police car left, they again gathered at the intersection.
如此反复，警车来巡视了3次，他们也分分合合了3次。
So repeatedly, the police car came to patrol three times, they also split up three times.
事实上，29日这晚不会有“餐车”来，只是他们中午走得快，没听到志愿者们的提醒。
In fact, there will be no "dining car" on the 29th night, except that they walk fast at noon and do not hear from the volunteers.
李贺等人不信似的，硬等了两个半小时，才叹着气离开。
He waited two and a half hours before he left with a sigh of disbelief.
又过去半个多小时，崇仁路口依然站着十几个人。
More than half an hour ago, Chongren junction is still standing a dozen people.
暮色四合，春寒料峭，警车都不来了，他们还在等待。
Twilight, chilly spring, police cars are not coming, they are still waiting.
“要我该要的钱”坐吃山空不是个办法，张勇一直在找事做。
"I should ask for money" is not a solution, Zhang Yong has been looking for something to do.
“口”停不下来，“手”就不能停下来。
If the mouth doesn't stop, the hand can't stop.
修过火神山后，张勇又接了很多活，他在雷神山工地搬过马桶，12小时800块钱。
After fixing Mount Fire, Zhang Yong picked up a lot of work. He moved the toilet at the Lui Shenshan site for 12 hours and 800 yuan.
还在雷神山铺过地板和草坪，8小时450元。
Also laid the floor and lawn in Raytheon Hill, 8 hours 450 yuan.
接着，他去了武昌、洪山和汉口区，修方舱医院或隔离点，偶尔多做了1个小时，他不会计较。
Then he went to Wuchang, Hongshan and Hankou districts, repaired the square cabin hospital or the quarantine point, and occasionally did so for an hour, which he did not mind.
毕竟，在疫情时期平衡收支，对他来说已经很难了。
After all, balancing the balance of payments in an epidemic is already difficult for him.
他平时一年挣五六万，要抽出3万块，给他在上海读书的女儿。
He made fifty or sixty thousand a year, and drew out thirty thousand for his daughter, who was studying in Shanghai.
刘胜强也有孩子要养，一儿一女都在读小学。
Liu Shengqiang also has children to support, a son and a girl are in primary school.
其实，张勇和刘胜强都是离了婚的，张勇是交抚养费，刘胜强是自己养孩子，身上压力都不小。
In fact, Zhang Yong and Liu Shengqiang are divorced, Zhang Yong is to pay maintenance, Liu Shengqiang is their own child, the body pressure is not small.
反过来，为了家人和小孩，他们在安全和挣钱之间，每天做着艰难的平衡。
In turn, for the sake of their families and children, they are struggling to balance security with earning money on a daily basis.
提起离婚的原因，他们都摇摇头。
They shook their heads at the cause of the divorce.
刘胜强自嘲说，他们“80后”这一代，社会发展太快了，不小心就成了失败者，“还是自己不争气”。
Liu said he laughed at himself, "after 80" generation, the social development is too fast, inadvertently become a loser, "or their own gas."
不过，在汉正街322附8号，结过婚的都是少数，“10个人里面，8个人是老年单身”，刘胜强说，他们中有人连智能手机也不会用，疫情期间，诸事不便，吃饭才是最大的问题。
However, at No.8 of 322 Hancheng Street, married couples are a minority. "Eight of the 10 are single elderly people," said Liu. Some of them don't even use smartphones, and during the epidemic, when everything is inconvenient, eating is the biggest problem.
工友们的出租屋外部（图/Lily）0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%function showDivShare() {。
External (photo / Lily) 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% function showDivShare '{
