武汉市中心医院医护人员吐真情：疫情是面照妖镜/* declared */。
The medical staff of Wuhan Central Hospital spat the truth: The epidemic situation is mirrored / * declared * /.
武汉市中心医院医护人员吐真情：疫情是面照妖镜<br>。
At Wuhan Central Hospital, doctors and nurses threw up the truth: AT & L; Br & gt;
| title       = 武汉市中心医院医护人员吐真情：疫情是面照妖镜。
AT & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
武汉市中心医院医护人员吐真情：疫情是面照妖镜。
Wuhan central hospital medical staff vomit true feelings: the epidemic situation is a magic mirror.
樊巍 崔萌 杨诚。
Wei Meng Yang Cheng.
环球时报                      。
Global Times.
环球时报。
Global Times.
报道多元世界 解读复杂中国。
Covering a Plural World Interprets Complex China.
“我身边很多医护都曾产生过疫情结束之后就辞职转行的想法。
"Many of the doctors and nurses around me have had the idea of quitting and changing careers once the epidemic is over.
”武汉市中心医院医生刘洁对《环球时报》赴武汉特派记者说，“这一次疫情颠覆了我们很多人的人生观和从业观，逝去的同事，无助的病人，怀揣一颗医者仁心，却一次次被现实浇凉。
Liu Jie, a doctor at Wuhan Central Hospital, told the reporters accredited to Wuhan by the Global Times: "This time the epidemic has upended the outlook on life and practice of many of us.
对医护而言，似乎没有比这更绝望的事。
There seems to be no greater desperation for health care.
”“但我们最终还是坚持下来了，我们经历了世间冷暖，见证了城市复苏，有些热爱你只有撑过黑暗，见到曙光，才能更加深刻的体会到。
"" But we did manage to make it through the cold, the warm, the urban recovery, and some loved you more deeply when you saw the light and the darkness.
”刘洁称。
"said Liu.
2月6日晚，武汉市中心医院后湖院区 摄影：崔萌“我告诉自己，17年前那场劫难要回来了”现已公开的学术论文显示，武汉首例新型冠状病毒肺炎确诊患者于去年12月1日发病。
February 6 evening, Wuhan city central hospital backlake courtyard photography: Cui Meng "I told myself that 17 years ago that disaster will come back," now published academic papers show that Wuhan's first confirmed case of coronavirus pneumonia on December 1 last year.
而据公开报道显示，湖北省中西医结合医院呼吸与重症医学科主任张继先被认为最先上报疫情的人，2月6日《环球时报》赴武汉特派记者曾专访张继先主任，张继先主任告诉本报记者，去年12月27日，她和院方就已将四名病人病情异常的情况上报给了江汉区疾控中心。
Zhang Jishan, director of the Department of Respiratory and Severe Medicine in Hubei Province, was the first person to report the outbreak. On February 6, the Special Representative of the Global Times in Wuhan interviewed Zhang Jian and Zhang Jian told the reporter that on December 27 last year, she and the hospital had reported the abnormal condition of four patients to the CDC.
12月29日，省、市卫健委疾控处指示武汉市疾控中心、金银潭医院和江汉区疾控中心，来到湖北省中西医结合医院，开始流行病学调查。
On December 29, the Provincial and Municipal Health Care and Disease Control Office instructed Wuhan CDC, Gold and Silver Pool Hospital and Jianghan CDC to come to Hubei Province and start an epidemiological investigation.
最早判断出疫情并上报的医生张继先但在出现的首例病人和省市疾控部门的首次响应之间，这近一个月的时间内，武汉市中心医院并不平静。
Doctor Zhang Jixian, who first diagnosed the outbreak and reported it, was not calm in Wuhan city central hospital for nearly a month between the first case and the first response from provincial and municipal disease control authorities.
作为离华南海鲜市场最近的两家三甲医院之一（另一家为湖北省中西医结合医院），武汉市中心医院成为最早一批和新冠肺炎病毒“交手”的医院。
As one of the two closest hospitals to the South China seafood market (the other is Hubei Province combined Chinese and Western Medicine), Wuhan Central Hospital became the first hospital to "fight" the new crown pneumonia virus.
武汉中心医院急诊科主任艾芬在接受媒体采访时曾表示，2019年12月16日，武汉市中心医院南京路院区急诊科接诊了一名在华南海鲜市场工作，高烧不退的病人，22日这名病人被转到院呼吸科，做了纤维支气管镜取了肺泡灌洗液，样本送到第三方检测机构做高通量测序，后来检测机构以口头通知的方式告诉中心医院，这是冠状病毒。
Wuhan Central Hospital Emergency Department Director in an interview with the media said that on December 16, 2019, Wuhan Central Hospital Nanjing Road Hospital, the emergency department received a high-fever patients in the South China Seafood Market, the patient was transferred to the hospital respiratory department, did fiber bronchoscope to take alveolar lotion, sample sent to a third-party testing institution for high-throughput sequencing, later told the central hospital by oral notification that it was coronavirus.
2月6日晚，一名医护准备进入武汉市中心医院后湖院区呼吸与危重症医学科监护室 摄影：崔萌上海市复旦大学附属公共卫生临床中心的一位工作人员也曾向本报记者透露了一则案例，2019年12月26日，武汉市中心医院收治了一位有华南海鲜市场接触史，不明原因肺炎的患者。
On the evening of Feb. 6, a medical worker was preparing to enter the Houhu courtyard of Wuhan Central Hospital for respiratory and critical medical care. A staff member of Chui Meng Shanghai Fudan University Affiliated Public Health Clinic told the reporter that on December 26, 2019, Wuhan Central Hospital admitted a patient with unknown pneumonia with a history of contact with the South China seafood market.
该院呼吸内科的学科带头人，主任医师赵苏认为这个病人感染症状比较独特，根据科研课题设计，武汉市中心医院收集病人呼吸道样本，由武汉疾控中心在2020年1月3日下午转交给上海公共卫生临床中心的一个团队。
Zhao Su, the head of the department of respiratory medicine at the hospital, said the patient's symptoms of infection were unique. According to the design of the research project, Wuhan Central Hospital collected respiratory samples from patients, which were handed over by Wuhan CDC to a team of Shanghai Public Health Clinic Center on January 3, 2020.
从医二十余年的武汉市中心医院医生陶俊称，武汉市中心医院后湖院区于2019年12月28日、12月29日，共收治了4名有华南海鲜市场接触史的疑似病人，其中3人是华南海鲜城的商户，1人是华南海鲜市场商户的家属。
Wu Han Central Hospital doctor Tao Junjun said on December 28 and December 29, 2019, four patients with a history of contact with the South China Seafood Market were admitted to the hospital.
四名病人的特点都是血常规淋巴细胞减少，肺部CT呈现磨玻璃样病变，并伴有发热症状，这些都和平时的社区获得性肺炎显著不同。
All four patients were characterized by a decrease in routine lymphocytes, a glassy lung CT, and febrile symptoms, all of which were significantly different from the usual community-acquired pneumonia.
陶俊认为，武汉市中心医院12月中下旬的这些疑似病人都是新冠肺炎病毒已经横行的迹象，“新型冠状病毒肺炎的基本再生数R0至今也不过3.0左右，与SARS早期情况接近，甚至略低于相当一部分研究报告对SARS早期传播能力的判断，按照传染病的发病趋势，如果第一例患者直到12月底才出现，那么发展的速度肯定不会像现在这样迅猛，”陶俊称。
The suspected cases at Wuhan Central Hospital in mid-to-late December are signs that the new coronavirus pneumonia is already widespread, said Tao. "The basic number of reborn coronavirus pneumonia R0 so far is only about 3.0, close to the early SARS epidemic.
但陶俊也坦言，即便12月份中下旬武汉市中心医院陆陆续续出现一些低热、乏力、CT影像呈现磨玻璃样病变的患者，但在他看来这种并非典型的症状并没有让他们意识到事态的严重性，他和他的同事真正开始对这种异常情况产生警觉还是在12月底。
But Tao also admitted that even though the central hospital in Wuhan in late December continued to show some cases of low heat, fatigue, and grinded glass-like lesions on CT images, this atypical symptom did not, in his view, make them realize the seriousness of the situation.
一份经武汉市中心医院医生证实情况基本属实的《武汉市中心医院新冠肺炎疫情处置情况说明》显示，12月29日下午两点半左右，武汉市中心医院后湖院区急诊科的医生向院公共卫生科上报了四例来自华南海鲜市场的病人，这四名病人经过CT和查血判断，呈现出病毒性肺炎的表现。
At about 2: 30 pm on December 29, doctors from the emergency department of the Houhu courtyard of Wuhan Central Hospital reported to the hospital's public health department four patients from the South China seafood market who had demonstrated signs of viral pneumonia after CT and blood tests.
随后院公共卫生科将这一情况上报给了武汉市江汉区疾控中心传防科，得到的回复是：近段时间该区也接到了其他地方的报告，送到市里查了各项病原都没有结果，针对武汉市中心医院的情况，江汉区疾控中心传防科向领导汇报后再给予答复。
The public health section of the hospital then reported the case to the CDC Communications Section of the Jianghan District of Wuhan, and received reports from other places recently, and sent to the city to check the results of all the pathogens, Wuhan city central hospital, the CDC Communications Section reported to the leadership of the response.
随后，武汉市中心医院医务处组织了专家会诊，院呼吸内科专家到急诊科会诊后，两边一通气，发现呼吸内科也有2名来自华南海鲜市场的病人，武汉中心医院的不明原因肺炎患者一下子达到了6名，当晚 20时左右，江汉区疾控中心和武汉市应急办抵迖武汉市中心医院后湖院区，对7例病人进行了流行病学调查和釆样，并于当晚连夜送往武汉市疾控中心。
Later, the medical service of Wuhan Central Hospital organized a consultation of experts. After the specialists from the hospital's respiratory department visited the emergency department, they found that the Department of Respiratory Medicine had two patients from the South China seafood market.
武汉市中心医院后湖院区 摄影：杨诚12月30日下午，一位患者的肺泡灌洗液高通量测序结果传回了武汉市中心医院，检测结果上表明患者高度疑似SARS，当天这个消息传遍了武汉市中心医院，“那天下午晚些时候，我看到急诊科的一位医生戴上一种我从未见过的口罩，后来我才知道，那是一种N95口罩。
A patient's alveolar lotion was sent back to Wuhan Central Hospital on the afternoon of December 30 with high-throughput sequencing results indicating that the patient was highly suspected of SARS. The news spread to Wuhan Central Hospital.
当我知道检测结果时，我对自己说，17年前的那场劫难要回来了”陶俊称。
When I knew the test results, I told myself that the disaster 17 years ago was coming back, "Tao said.
从“慎重上报“到”尽量不报“到了一月份，武汉市中心医院接诊的可疑病人数量呈几何数级的增长，但是真实情况却更难为外界所知。
By January, the number of suspicious patients admitted to Wuhan Central Hospital had increased exponentially, but the real situation was more difficult to understand.
据《武汉市中心医院新冠肺炎疫情处置情况说明》显示，1月3日，武汉市中心医院公共卫生科医生致电江汉区疾控中心，询问前期报告的7例病毒性肺炎的处置情况，得到的答复是却是对于此类传染疾病，等上级通知后才能上报，具体上报病种另等通知。
On January 3, doctors from Wuhan Central Hospital called the CDC to inquire about the disposition of seven cases of viral pneumonia reported in the previous period, but were told that such cases could not be reported until further notice.
在经过几轮“推倭”的操作之后，1月8日到1月10日，武汉市中心医院终于成功上报了14例不明原因肺炎上报卡。
After several rounds of bonobos, Wuhan Central Hospital successfully reported 14 cases of unidentified pneumonia on Jan. 8 to Jan. 10.
1月13日，武汉市卫健委疾控处领导、江汉区卫健委疾控科来到武汉市中心医院南京路院区，传达最新不明原因肺炎病例上报精神。
January 13, Wuhan Health Care and Disease Control Office leader, Jianghan District Wei Jianjie disease control department to Wuhan City Central Hospital Nanjing Road Hospital, to convey the latest unknown causes of pneumonia reported spirit.
当时，武汉市卫健委疾控处要求不明原因肺炎病例要慎重上报。
At that time, Wuhan Health Care Commission disease control office asked unknown causes of pneumonia cases to be carefully reported.
发现的病毒性肺炎病例，首先要在院内完成各项检验和相关检查，经院内专家组会诊为不明原因肺炎后，再报区卫健委会诊并通知区疾控采样，经区、市、省级逐级检测，依然为不明原因肺炎后，经省卫健委同意才能进行病例信息上报。
In the case of viral pneumonia, all the tests and related examinations should be completed in the hospital. After being diagnosed as pneumonia by hospital expert group, the case information can be reported only with the consent of the provincial health committee after reporting to the District Health Committee for consultation and notifying the district CDC to take samples.
然而据武汉市中心医院医生陆奕介绍，这个“慎重上报”的要求，在武汉市中心医院演变成了“尽量不报”。
But according to Lu Yi, a doctor at Wuhan Central Hospital, the requirement for a "discreet report" evolved into "as little as possible" at Wuhan Central Hospital.
陆奕称，1月上旬，当时下发到医生手中的不明原因肺炎诊疗标准给出的上报条件需要满足以下三点：第一、病人必须有在华南海鲜市场生活和工作史，或者和华南海鲜市场的商户有密切接触史。
Mr Ludlow said the criteria for reporting unexplained pneumonia, then distributed to doctors at the time, required three things: First, patients must have a history of living and working in the South China seafood market, or close contact with merchants in the South China seafood market.
第二，病人的CT显示肺部有典型磨玻璃样病变。
Second, the patient's CT scan revealed a typical glassy lesion in the lungs.
第三，上呼吸道咽拭子排除8种病源：甲流、乙流、合胞体病毒、腺病毒、支原体衣原体等等。
Third, the upper respiratory tract swabs rule out 8 etiology: A current, B stream, syncytovirus, adenovirus, mycoplasma, etc.
若同时满足以上三项条件，且伴随咳嗽、咳痰、低热症状，就需要将不明原因肺炎的病例上报。
If the above three conditions are met at the same time, and accompanied by cough, sputum, low fever symptoms, it is necessary to report cases of unknown pneumonia.
但在实际操作中，武汉市中心医院的医生又收到了来自院方的特殊要求。
In practice, however, doctors at Wuhan Central Hospital received special requests from the hospital.
据武汉市中心医院医生田栩回忆， 一月初，医院突然叫停了对不明原因病人的病毒检测。
In early January, hospitals stopped testing for unknown causes of the virus, Dr. Tian Shimin, a doctor at Wuhan Central Hospital, recalled.
院方接相关部门通知指示，当有发烧、咳嗽症状的病人来到医院，又查不清楚病因时，不允许给患者做肺泡灌洗，也不许拿相关样本向第三方送检做宏基因测序。
The hospital received instructions from the relevant departments that patients with fever and cough symptoms should not be allowed to undergo alveolar lavage when they come to the hospital with fever and cough symptoms and find out the cause.
到了1月上旬，到武汉市中心医院看病的可疑病人数量明显增多，以武汉市中心医院后湖院区内科急诊为例，之前急诊科室每日就诊人数在200~300之间，但那段时间就诊人数突然翻了一倍。
By early January, the number of suspicious patients visiting Wuhan's central hospital had increased markedly. For example, the number of patients attending the emergency department in the Houhu courtyard of Wuhan Central Hospital was between 200 and 300 per day, but the number of patients there suddenly doubled.
面对大量涌入的可疑病人，院方却不允许医生在传染病直报系统中将病人按“不明原因肺炎上报”，甚至将病人诊断为“病毒性肺炎”都是不允许的，只能诊断为“肺部感染”，这样大量不明原因肺炎患者的真实情况根本无法上报。
Faced with a massive influx of suspicious patients, doctors were not allowed to report patients as "unidentified pneumonia" in the Communicable Disease Reporting System, or even to diagnose "viral pneumonia" as "pulmonary infection," so that the true situation of a large number of patients with unexplained pneumonia could not be reported.
到了一月下旬，大量病人涌入武汉市中心医院，医院每天的门诊量是往常3~4倍，院方再度要求，只能将收治住院的病人上报上去，门诊发现的疑似病人一律不报，那些无法住院的病人只能独自回家按医嘱居家隔离服药治疗，武汉市中心医院究竟接诊了多少新冠肺炎病人甚至无法统计。
In late January, a large number of patients poured into the central hospital of Wuhan, the hospital daily outpatient volume is three to four times the usual, the hospital again requested that patients admitted to the hospital not reported, those found out that the patients can only be home alone as advised by the doctors, Wuhan Central Hospital to receive the number of patients can not even count.
“也是在一月中旬，我们有时候一整天一个科室发现的疑似患者就比武汉市卫健委公布的数据多，这些疑似的病人无法写进真实的数据，但这不代表他们不存在，也不代表他们不具有传染性。
"Also in the middle of January, we sometimes find more suspected patients in a department all day than in Wuhan city health committee. These suspected patients can't write down real data, but that doesn't mean they don't exist and they're not contagious.
” 陆奕称。
"said Mr Lou.
“卸甲的勇士”大量上报的病人不仅无法呈现为真实的数据上，而且也得不到武汉市中心医院院领导的正视。
The patients reported by "The Warrior" can not only not be presented as real data, but also can not be faced up to by the leaders of Wuhan Central Hospital.
院领导接连发布通知，不允许医生私下谈论疫情，不允许医生向外界透露新冠肺炎病毒人传人的客观事实，不允许医生“危言耸听“私自透露医院真实情况，必须要讲纪律，讲组织性。
Hospital leaders have issued successive circulars that do not allow doctors to talk about the epidemic in private, nor do they allow doctors to reveal to the outside world the objective facts of human-to-human transmission of the new crown pneumonia virus.
然而，许多在一线直观感受到事态严重性的医生，还是多次请求院领导在院区内开展预防工作并在医院内部示警，但院方始终没有采取任何措施。
However, many doctors who felt the gravity of the situation on the first line repeatedly requested the hospital leadership to carry out preventive work in the courtyard and to warn inside the hospital, but no measures were taken.
“我记得在12月30日，关于我院确诊一例冠状病毒的消息就已经传得沸沸扬扬了，我们有些同事拿着这个消息去询问医院相关部门，这个消息是否属实，得到的答复却是，纯属谣言。
"I recall that on December 30th, the news that we had a coronavirus confirmed in our hospital was already in the air. Some of our colleagues asked the hospital if it was true.
医院相关部门还要求我们帮忙辟谣，但是我们都知道这个谣没法辟，12月29日，不明原因肺炎病人的情况我们已经上报到了区疾控中心，12月30日，我们送检的患者肺泡灌洗液高通量测序结果也传回了医院，检测结果为高度疑似SARS，医院本应着手让医生提高防护意识，却对我们都隐瞒真相，甚至不允许我们自我防范，这让我们非常心寒。
The hospital authorities also asked us to help deny rumors, but we all know that this rumor is not effective. On December 29, we reported to the CDC that the results of high-throughput sequencing of alveolar lotion were sent back to the hospital on December 30.
”田栩称。
"Tanaka.
据武汉市中心医院一位医生介绍，医院急诊科、呼吸科和ICU的医护平时都会佩戴医用口罩上班，但疫情发生以后，这三个科室的医护向院方请求必须要佩戴N95口罩，医院的领导经过考量，同意了这三个科室的请求，但同时又要求其他科室的医护都不允许佩戴口罩上班。
A doctor at Wuhan Central Hospital said emergency, respiratory and ICU staff wore medical masks during normal working hours, but after the outbreak, doctors from the three departments asked the hospital to wear N95 masks.
医院领导的这项规定引发了许多医生的强烈不满，在得不到院方支持的情况下，许多医生只能自己掏钱去购买口罩，但是1月3日，在武汉市中心医院的周会上，医院领导在开会的时候批评了几个戴口罩的科室主任。
The hospital leader's decision triggered an outcry from doctors, many of whom had to pay for masks at their own expense without hospital support, but on January 3, during a weekly meeting at Wuhan Central Hospital, hospital leaders criticized several heads of department wearing masks.
“一月初的时候，李文亮医生刚刚被医院相关部门训诫完，原计划是要被医院开除，我们医院的一位部门主任劝我们说，不要跟领导对着干，不要戴口罩，不要乱说话，否则你们会像李文亮一样被开除，“武汉市中心医院医生赵辰称。
"At the beginning of January, Dr. Li Wenliang had just been told by the hospital authorities that his plan was to be expelled from the hospital. He advised us not to stand against the leader, not to wear a mask, not to talk nonsense, otherwise you will be dismissed like Li Wenliang," said Zhao Chen, a doctor at Wuhan Central Hospital.
不允许医生戴口罩这种始终让许多医生疑惑不解的规定，为后来武汉市中心医院大批医护人员感染埋下了祸根。
The ban on doctors wearing masks, which has always puzzled many doctors, sowed the seeds for a large number of hospital staff in Wuhan.
据赵辰介绍，在疫情大爆发的那段时间，大批量的患者恐慌性地涌入医院各个科室，不论哪个科室都能遇到疑似感染的患者或者潜伏期患者。
According to Zhao Chen, in the outbreak of the period, large numbers of patients panic into the hospital departments, regardless of which department can be suspected of infection or latency patients.
病毒是不挑科室的，它只会挑那些没有防护的人，武汉市中心医院，那些不允许佩戴口罩的科室，例如甲乳、泌外、心外、眼科、耳鼻喉、超声科就是在一月份倒下了大批医生。
The virus does not pick the department, it will only pick those who do not protect themselves, Wuhan Central Hospital, those who do not allow wearing masks, such as nail milk, extracardiology, ophthalmology, ear, nose, throat, ultrasound department is down a large number of doctors in January.
在武汉市中心医院目前已经殉职的医生中，李文亮、梅仲明与朱和平是眼科医生，江学庆是甲乳外科医生。
Li Wenliang, Mei Zhongming and Zhu Heping are ophthalmologists, and Jiang Xueqing is a lactation surgeon.
此外，中心医院副院长王萍、院伦理委员会刘励、胸外科副主任医师易凡、泌外科副主任胡卫峰都处于情况危急的状态。
In addition, Wang Ping, Vice-President of the Central Hospital, Liu Lai of the Institute of Ethics, Yi Fan, Deputy Chief Physician of Chest Surgery, and Hu Weifeng, Deputy Director of Surgery, are all in critical condition.
2月7日，许多武汉市民自发到武汉市中心医院后湖院区门口献花纪念李文亮。
Feb. 7, many Wuhan city people spontaneously to Wuhan central hospital Houhu courtyard district flowers to commemorate Li Wenliang.
摄影：崔萌“李文亮和梅仲明两位医生都是在1月上旬被一位82岁青光眼患者感染，两位医生当时都是在不允许戴口罩的情况下接诊了这名病人，二人在被感染后都出现了咳嗽、低热、乏力等症状。
"Both doctors were infected by an 82-year-old glaucoma in early January, and both doctors were treating the patient without a mask, and both developed symptoms such as cough, low fever and fatigue after infection.
他们的情况被报到院方那里后，院方在明知二人已经被病毒感染的情况下，并没有及时安排他们转入传染科住院，反而让他们住进了眼科自己的病房，而且也没有给眼科的医生提供任何防护措施，但眼科医生还是按要求照常上班。
When their condition was reported to the hospital, the hospital authorities did not arrange for their transfer to the Infectious Diseases Unit in time, knowing that the two had been infected. Instead, they were admitted to their own ophthalmology ward and no protective measures were provided to the ophthalmologists, but the ophthalmologists went to work as required.
”武汉市中心医院医生张婷称。
Wuhan Central Hospital doctor Zhang Tingsaid.
2月7日，许多武汉市民自发到武汉市中心医院后湖院区门口献花纪念李文亮。
Feb. 7, many Wuhan city people spontaneously to Wuhan central hospital Houhu courtyard district flowers to commemorate Li Wenliang.
摄影：崔萌除了那些“逆潮流”被要求摘下的口罩，武汉市中心医院的医生还因为医院相关部门的执意拒收，失去了募集而来的防护服。
Photography: In addition to the masks that Cui Meng had been asked to take off, doctors at Wuhan Central Hospital lost the protective clothing they had collected because the hospital authorities refused to accept them.
整个一月，武汉市中心医院医生都为防护服而同医院领导和相关部门做着各种抗争。
Throughout January, doctors at Wuhan Central Hospital struggled with hospital leaders and other authorities for protective clothing.
一月中旬的时候，医院领导不允许一线医护在接诊的时候穿防护服，戴防护面屏。
In mid-January, hospital leaders refused to allow front-line care workers to wear protective clothing and screens during medical consultations.
“当科室主任因为戴着口罩开会而被医院领导训斥之后，我们急诊科的一些医生只能偷偷进行自我保护了，我记得当时我们将自己私下准备的防护服或是隔离衣穿在白大褂里面，所幸领导也不会临床巡视，我们就这样‘蒙混过关’了，” 田栩称。
"When the head of the department was scolded by the hospital leadership for wearing a mask for the meeting, some of our emergency doctors had to secretly protect themselves. I remember when we put on our own personal protective clothing or isolation clothes in white coats, but fortunately the leaders did not make clinical rounds, and so we 'muddled through'," Tian said.
后来，随着疫情的发展，防护服开始成为一线医务工作者的标配，但是武汉市中心医院却又无法为一线医务工作者提供足够的防护服。
Later, as the epidemic developed, protective clothing began to become the standard for front-line medical workers, but Wuhan Central Hospital was unable to provide adequate protective clothing for front-line medical workers.
在防护物资紧缺的日子里，雨衣，垃圾袋都曾扮演过防护服的角色，“2月上旬，我们各个科室的医生曾经建了一个群探讨用雨衣代替防护服的相关事宜，大家就雨衣是否防飞溅、气密性、消毒循环使用次数进行了多次严肃的论证和商讨，但最终没有广泛使用该方案。
In the days when protective gear was scarce, raincoats and garbage bags were used as protective clothing. "In early February, doctors from all our departments set up a group to discuss the use of raincoats as a substitute for protective clothing.
那段时间，大家穿什么的都有，一直到外地工厂复工，来自全国各地医疗队的大量援助，这些窘境才得以缓解。
These difficulties were alleviated by the arrival of all sorts of clothes, the resumption of work at factories outside the country and the massive assistance of medical teams from all over the country.
” 田栩称。
"Tanaka.
然而最让武汉市中心医院医生们寒心的是，一面是院方无法为一线医护提供充足的防护物资，一面院方又拒收一线医生自己去公开募集而来的防护物资，许多捐赠的防护物资，刚到医院就被院方给拒收了。
But to the dismay of doctors at Wuhan Central Hospital, the hospital was unable to provide adequate supplies for first-line medical care, while the hospital refused to accept the first-line doctors' own public collection of protective materials, many of the donated protective materials, just arrived at the hospital was refused.
“二月初的时候我们已经‘山穷水尽’，临床一线医生别说防护服，连普通外科口罩都没有了，那个时候我们的一位同事拉来了一批德国商会捐赠的防护物资，院领导以这批物资不符合红十字会要求为由拒收，沟通无果后，这批物资经华科校友会的协调，绝大部分被转送给了武汉市四医院和武汉市协和医院，他们欢天喜地的接收了，我们的心却在滴血。
At the beginning of February, when we were at the end of our rope and the clinical front-line doctors said no more protective clothing or even a surgical mask, one of our colleagues pulled a batch of protective materials donated by the German Chamber of Commerce.
“田栩称。
"Tanaka.
疫情面前，无视一线医护对于防护的需求导致的直接恶果就是大批量的医护被感染，据公开报道显示，武汉中心医院有200多名医护人员被感染。
In the face of the epidemic, the immediate effect of ignoring the need for first-line care for protection is massive health-care infections, with public reports indicating that more than 200 medical personnel were infected at Wuhan Central Hospital.
医护感染人数位居武汉市各大医院前列。
The number of hospital infections ranked among the leading hospitals in Wuhan.
“应该说，我们医院有大量医护人员被感染，这即正常，也不正常，正常就在于我们有院区就在华南海鲜市场附近，我们也是最先一批遭遇新冠肺炎病毒的医生，不正常就在于，我们医院很早就发现了人传人的事实，院方却一直对我们隐瞒真相，甚至阻止我们进行自我防护。
"It should be said that we have a large number of hospital staff infected, which is normal and abnormal is that we have a hospital near the South China Seafood Market, we are the first doctors to encounter the New Crown Pneumonia virus.
湖北省中西医结合医院也在华南海鲜市场附近，它们也是最先和新冠肺炎病毒‘交锋’的医院。
Hubei combined Chinese and Western medicine hospital is also in the vicinity of the South China seafood market, they are also the first and the new crown pneumonia virus' confrontation 'hospital.
武汉市中医院离我们南京路院区只有几百米远，他们面临了和我们一样的处境。
Wuhan Chinese Hospital is only a few hundred meters away from our Nanjing Road courtyard area. They are facing the same situation as us.
他们都有医护人员被感染，但整体情况却比我们好很多，这就能够说明问题。
They all have health care workers infected, but the overall picture is much better than ours, which speaks for itself.
” 赵辰称。
"said Zhao Chen.
“被阻挠的抚慰”除了从全国，乃至全球各地捐往武汉各大医院的防护物资，社会各界对于奋战在抗疫一线的医务人员还提供了各式各样的帮扶和保障，其中，中国红十字总会下属中国红十字基金会（以下简称中国红基会）就为防控一线的医务工作者提供了一项人道救助基金，其受助者包括但不限于确诊感染和因公殉职的一线医务工作者。
Apart from the protective materials donated to Wuhan major hospitals from all over the country and around the world, the Chinese Red Cross Foundation (CHRF) of the Chinese Association of Chinese Chaos (hereinafter referred to as "Red Foundation of China") provides a humanitarian relief fund for frontline medical workers, including but not limited to those who have been diagnosed with infection and killed in the line of duty.
中国红十字基金会“医务人道救助基金”项目宣传海报（来源：中国红十字基金会官网）按照中国红基会官网提供的资助标准，为抗击新冠肺炎疫情而不幸确诊感染，经审核通过符合资助条件的一线医务工作者，该基金将为每人资助人民币10万元整；对于为抗击新冠肺炎疫情而不幸殉职，经审核通过符合资助标准的一线医务工作者，该基金将为每个家庭资助人民币100万元整。
According to the funding criteria provided by the Red Cross Foundation of China, the fund will provide 100 000 yuan per person to eligible frontline medical workers who have been killed in the fight against the outbreak of pneumonia, and 1 million yuan per family for frontline medical workers who meet the funding criteria.
这项官方设立的救助基金申请、审核、拨付流程简洁高效，自从1月26日全面开放受理医院和个人资助申请之后，截止3月14日，该基金已经为48批共2322名（共2324人次）抗击疫情医务工作者提供人道救助。
The official procedure for applying for, vetting and disbursing funds is simple and efficient. As of March 14, the fund had provided humanitarian assistance to 48 batches of 2,322 (2,324) health workers since it opened its doors to applications from hospitals and individuals for financial aid.
其中， 2294人为抗击疫情而不幸感染的医务工作者；28人为因抗击疫情而不幸殉职的医务工作者。
Of these, 2,294 were medical workers who had been tragically infected by the outbreak and 28 were medical workers who had lost their lives in the course of the fight against the epidemic.
申请者包括来自武汉协和、同济、武大中南、湖北省人民、湖北省中西医等武汉各大医院的抗疫医务工作者。
The applicants included anti-epidemic medical workers from Wuhan Concorde, Tongji, Central and Southern Wuhan of Wudang University, Hubei Province, and Chinese and Western Medicine in Hubei Province.
按照官方给出的申请资助流程，不幸感染的医务工作者或者不幸殉职的医务工作者直系亲属在填报《医务人道救助基金自主申请书》后，经就职医院或防疫服务所在医院盖章确认情况属实后，附个人身份证，确诊医疗证明，身故证明等有效证明材料，即可向基金办公室提出救助申请。
According to the official application procedure, an unfortunate infected medical worker or an immediate family member of a medical worker who has lost his or her life in the line of duty may apply to the office of the Fund after completing the application for autonomy of the Medical Humanitarian Relief Fund and after confirmation of the seal of the hospital where the hospital or epidemic prevention service was established.
然而这样一项抚恤抗疫医务工作者的公益活动，在武汉市中心医院却也受到百般阻挠。
However, such a pro bono campaign for anti-epidemic medical workers was obstructed at Wuhan Central Hospital.
据中国红基会官网公示结果显示，直到2020年2月7日第十一批受助医务工作者名单中才第一次出现武汉中心医院的医护人员。
According to the results of the official website of the China Red Foundation, medical staff from Wuhan Central Hospital appeared for the first time on the 11th batch of medical workers on February 7, 2020.
受助人员为武汉市中心医院不幸殉职的眼科医生李文亮，然后到2月12日，第十七批受助医务工作者名单中才第二次出现武汉市中心医院医护人员的名字。
Li Wenliang, an ophthalmologist who lost his life in the Wuhan Central Hospital, was the recipient of the second batch of doctors and nurses from Wuhan Central Hospital on February 12.
然而在那时已经有大批被感染的医护人员开始向中国红基会申请救助，结果却被卡在了武汉市中心医院一纸公章上，许多符合申请标准的被感染医护人员，在各项证明材料齐全的情况下，医院却迟迟不愿为他们盖章确认情况属实。
By that time, however, a large number of infected medical workers had begun to apply to China Red Foundation for help, only to be stuck on an official seal of Wuhan Central Hospital, where many infected medical workers who met the application criteria were slow to stamp their seals on them despite the availability of all the necessary documentation.
“我当时自嘲是医院的‘毒王’，”武汉市中心医院医生李哲称，“我和其他一些被感染的医生不一样，他们都是症状很重，但是连续进行核酸检测，结果都是阴性，而我虽然症状很轻，但是多次核酸检测结果都是阳性。
"I was laughing at myself as the king of drugs," said Li Zhe, a doctor at Wuhan Central Hospital. "Unlike some other infected doctors, they have severe symptoms, but successive nucleic acid tests have been negative and I have had many positive nucleic acid tests despite my mild symptoms.
我是在2月初的时候被感染，2月中旬我就申请了红基会的救助，但是医院那时已经拒绝给我的申请书盖章了，因为我们医院有大批被感染的医护人员在申请这项救助，院方看到这种局面就给我们做工作说，这么多医护申请救助，传出去后被外界知道中心医院被感染的职工太多，影响声誉。
I was infected in early February, I applied for help from Red Foundation in mid-February, but the hospital had already refused to seal my application because our hospital had a large number of infected medical staff applying for the relief.
”后来，那些被武汉市中心医院一纸公章所阻挠的感染医护人员开始向中国红十字会反映情况，“事情捅到红十字会后，红十字会和我们医院取得联系，询问院方，为什么不愿意给这些被感染的医护盖章，院方迫于外部压力，2月下旬才同意给核酸检测为阳性的感染医护人员盖章，我清楚的记得，我的章子在3月1日那一天才盖下来。
"After the incident touched down with the Red Cross, the Red Cross and our hospital contacted us to ask why they were unwilling to stamp the infected doctors and nurses. Under external pressure, the hospital agreed in late February to seal the infected nurses who tested positive for nucleic acid.
” 李哲称。
"said Li.
根据中国红基会官网公示结果显示，直到2月25日第三十批受助医务工作者名单公布时，才有十名以上的武汉市中心医院感染医护人员出现在名单之上。
According to the results of the official website of the China Red Foundation, it was not until the publication of the 30th batch of medical workers on February 25 that more than 10 Wuhan Central Hospital infected medical personnel appeared on the list.
2月28日第三十三批受助医务工作者名单上一次性出现了46名武汉市中心医院的感染医护人员，随后，差不多每一批公示名单上都会有武汉市中心医院的医护出现。
On February 28th, 46 infected medical personnel from Wuhan Central Hospital appeared on the list of the thirty-third batch of medical workers, followed by medical staff from Wuhan Central Hospital on almost every batch of the list.
这个透明的公示名单印证了武汉市中心医院感染医护曲折的求助历程。
This transparent public notice list confirms Wuhan city central hospital infection medical care zigzag course of help.
也是在3月1日，武汉市中心医院甲状腺乳腺外科党支部书记、主任江学庆因感染新冠肺炎，救治无效后殉职，中国红基会的工作人员周志翔在朋友圈中转发了这一消息，并评论称：“一路走好，江大夫！又是武汉市中心医院的，这次医护人员被感染最多的也是该院，救助金申请最多的也是该院，很多事情需要痛定思过，否则付出的成本代价太高，医护人员会伤心的。
Also on March 1, Jiang Xueqing, secretary and director of the Thyroid Breast Surgery Department of Wuhan Central Hospital, died of pneumonia after receiving treatment for pneumonia.
”据本报记者根据中国红基会官网公示结果统计，截止3月14日第四十八批受助医务工作者名单公布时，已有231位武汉市中心医院感染医护人员领取到了中国红基会的救助，但武汉市中心医院的医生告诉本报记者，这也不是武汉市中心医院感染医护人员的全部。
According to statistics released on the official website of the China Red Foundation, 231 hospital staff infected with Wuhan Central Hospital had received assistance from the China Red Foundation by the time the forty-eighth batch of medical workers was announced, but doctors at Wuhan Central Hospital told the reporter that this was not the whole problem.
“我安慰自己，这场疫情也许是件好事”目前，武汉市的疫情防控工作已经取得了阶段性的胜利，16家方舱医院的休舱，以及大批病人的出院预示着肆虐武汉三个多月的新冠肺炎疫情局势已经稳定。
"I consoled myself that the outbreak may be a good thing." At present, Wuhan city's epidemic prevention and control work has achieved a phased victory, 16 cabin hospitals, and the discharge of a large number of patients foreshadowed the situation of the new crown pneumonia ravaging Wuhan for more than three months.
但是谈起武汉市中心医院所经历的那段灰暗的时刻，武汉市中心医院医生刘洁却表示很多事情不堪回首。
But when it comes to the gloomy period experienced by Wuhan Central Hospital, Liu Jie, a doctor at Wuhan Central Hospital, says many things can't be recalled.
3月10日下午5点，武昌方舱医院正式休舱，至此，武汉市14家方舱医院全部实现休舱！一位康复患者在出院的时候向救助他的医务人员敬礼。
At 5: 00 p.m. on March 10, Wuchang Fang Hospital was closed, and all 14 Fangzhou hospitals in Wuhan were closed! A convalescent patient saluted the medical staff who had helped him when he was discharged from hospital.
摄影：崔萌“对于医生而言，她最无助的事，就是救不了自己的家人，” 刘洁称。
Photo: Cui Meng "The most helpless thing for a doctor is that she can't save her family," says Liu.
除了大量医护人员被感染，武汉中心医院还存在大量医护家属被感染的情况，很多医生一边在一线抗击新冠肺炎，一边还要为被感染的家人四处寻找床位，她们每天都在拯救与无助之间徘徊。
In addition to the high number of infected medical personnel, Wuhan Central Hospital also has a large number of cases of infected family members, many of them fighting the new crown pneumonia while looking for beds for infected family members, who wander between rescue and helplessness every day.
“我们有位超声科的同事，本人始终奋战在抗疫一线，但是公公，爷爷，奶奶、大伯都不幸感染了新冠肺炎，家人病重的时候求助120，因为医院没有床位，120也没法上门接病人，求助武汉中心医院，医院告知只能先期备案，被感染的医护家属已有100余人在排队等候住院了，在迟迟等不到有效救治的情况下，她的奶奶，公公，爷爷在二月前三个星期依次离世，一场疫情摧毁了一个家庭，然而一次次擦干眼泪之后她还要继续回到抗疫的战场，我都无法对她说出安慰的话，看着她的朋友圈我都会流泪，我对她充满了敬意，但这份敬意也只能留在我的心里。
Her father-in-law, grandma and great-great-great-great-great-great-grandfather had been suffering from Newcastle pneumonia. When her family was seriously ill, she went back to Wuhan Central Hospital.
”刘洁称。
"said Liu.
在回溯她所经历的这场武汉新冠肺炎疫情时，刘洁称，太多的病人就是在等候那张床位的过程中病情恶化，乃至离世，自己能够为病人看病，却无法为他们提供有效治疗，这一次她体会到前所未有的无力感。
Looking back at her experience with the Wuhan New Crown Pneumonia epidemic, Liu said she felt an unprecedented sense of powerlessness as too many patients were waiting for the bed to deteriorate to the point of passing away, treating patients themselves and failing to provide them with effective treatment.
“如果不是中央及时高效地指导，帮助武汉的疫情防控工作，武汉市的损失肯定更加惨重，”刘洁称。
"Without timely and efficient guidance from the central government to help Wuhan prevent and control the disease, Wuhan would have suffered even more," Liu said.
在刘洁看来，一些原本求医无门，年龄较大的，有基础疾病的病人，很多都是因为火神山、雷神山，方舱医院、各大定点医院等治疗机构的的建立和设立，获得了住院治疗的机会。
In Liu Jie's view, some of the original access to health care, older patients, there are basic diseases, many because of the fire god mountain, Lei Shenshan, Fang Jie Hospital, major designated hospitals and other treatment institutions were established, access to hospital treatment.
“2月份，当来自甘肃、重庆、黑龙江、陕西的多家医疗队陆续进驻中心医院，我们才迎来了转机。
"In February, when a number of medical teams from Gansu, Chongqing, Heilongjiang and Shaanxi entered the central hospital, we turned the corner.
”说起这个这个从无序到有序，从匮乏到充裕的过程，刘洁认为，这背后是中央不惜一切代价收治病人的决心与行动。
Speaking of the process from disorder to order, from want to plenty, Liu said it was the central government's determination and action to treat patients at all costs.
“疫情带给我们无限的伤痛，也带给我们无尽的思考，我有时会想，这场疫情也许也是件好事，它让那些一身官僚主义，形式主义风气的人暴露出来了，我必须要说，疫情是面照妖镜”刘洁称。
"The epidemic has caused us untold pain and endless thought. I sometimes think that this epidemic may also be a good thing. It has exposed those who are bureaucratic and formalistic, and I must say that the epidemic is a demon," said Liu.
（文中刘洁、陶俊、陆奕、田栩、赵辰、张婷、李哲、周志翔均为化名）文：樊巍，摄影：崔萌、杨诚素材整理：夏彩云、王璞，王梦妍了解《环球时报》的三观请长按下方二维码关注我们or回到文章顶部，点击环球时报（微信公众号ID：hqsbwx）。
) Liu Jie, Tao Jun, Lu Yi, Tian Zhen, Zhao Chen, Zhang Ting, Li Zhe, Zhou Zhixiang are all aliases) Wen: Fan Meng, Photography: Xia Cai-yun, Wang Pu, Wang Mengyan knew the three views of the Global Times.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉市中心医院医护人员吐真情：疫情是面照妖镜。
Wuhan central hospital medical staff vomit true feelings: the epidemic situation is a magic mirror.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
