新冠疫苗面世至少需要18个月。
It will take at least 18 months for the new crown vaccine to be available.
麻省理工科技评论。
MIT Technology Review.
DeepTech深科技                      。
Deep Technology DeepTech.
DeepTech深科技。
Deep Technology DeepTech.
DeepTech是一家关注新兴科技产业化的全链条内容、服务、数据和投融资平台，致力于构建一个全球科技创新合作网络。
DeepTech is a whole chain of content, services, data, and investment and financing platforms that focus on the industrialization of emerging technologies, and is committed to building a global science, technology, and innovation collaborative network.
。
.
2020 年 3 月 2 日，美国总统特朗普携白宫新冠病毒工作组成员与生物技术公司举行了会议。
On March 2, 2020, US President Trump, together with members of the White House Working Group on the New Crown Virus, held a meeting with biotechnology companies.
各生物技术公司高管都陈述了自己将如何对抗疫情，特朗普总统想要明确的是，切实有效的疫苗到底需要多久才能面世。
Executives at biotechnology companies have described how they will fight the epidemic, and President Trump wants to be clear about how long it will take for an effective vaccine to be available.
只有马萨诸塞州剑桥市 Moderna 制药公司 CEO 斯特凡 · 班塞尔给出了确切的答案，该公司在疫情发生几周后就向政府提交了新型疫苗进行测试。
Only Stefan Banzer, CEO of Modern Pharmaceuticals in Cambridge, Massachusetts, provided the definitive answer, submitting a new vaccine to the government for testing weeks after the outbreak.
“你的意思是抗新冠疫苗在几个月内就能研制出来吗？” 特朗普看起来十分惊讶。
"Do you mean the new anti-crowning vaccine can be developed in a few months?" Trump seems surprised.
“是的，”班塞尔表示，该公司已经率先研制出了新型基因疫苗，他们一开始就遇到了 “对的人” 。
"Yes," says Banserl, the company that pioneered the development of the new genetic vaccine, and they met the right people in the first place.
新型药物用于临床需经过以下几个阶段：首先是安全性测试，然后是更广泛的药物有效性测试。
There are several stages in the clinical use of the new drug: a safety test, followed by a broader drug efficacy test.
班塞尔表示，首轮第二阶段测试可能会在今年夏天正式开始。
Mr Banserl said the first round of second-stage testing was likely to start formally this summer.
但目前还不清楚该公司是否在发布会上给出了同样的结果。
But it isn't clear whether the company gave the same result at the launch.
“疫苗还无法进入临床阶段，目前研制的疫苗必须先经过测试 ”，美国国家过敏和传染病研究所所长安东尼 · 福西表示，他曾是 6 位总统的医学顾问，其中里根总统是第一任，而且当时正赶上艾滋病流行。
"The vaccine is not yet ready for clinical trials," says Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, who was the first of six presidents' medical advisers, including President Reagan, who was caught up in the AIDS epidemic.
特朗普问道，“那具体需要多长时间？”图| Moderna 公司 CEO 斯蒂芬 · 班塞尔，该公司率先研制出了可能的抗新冠疫苗（来源：美联社）“ 我认为抗新冠疫苗面世需要一年到一年半的时间”，福西表示。
"How long does it take?" asked Trump, who pioneered the development of a possible new crown-resistant vaccine, Stephen Banzer, CEO of Modern Inc. "I think it will take a year to a year and a half to deliver the new crown vaccine," says Fossey.
特朗普表示，如果两个月能出结果就更好了。
Trump says it would be better if the results came in two months.
白宫新冠病毒工作组展示了生物制药公司如何利用新技术迅速应对疫情蔓延。
The White House Working Group on the New Crown Virus showed how biopharmaceutical companies are using new technologies to quickly respond to the epidemic.
再生元制药公司（Regeneron Pharmaceuticals）、CureVac 公司以及 Inovio 制药公司的代表也出席了会议，Inovio 公司研制出了抗寨卡病毒的基因疫苗，并表示其抗新冠疫苗的相关研究将于 4 月开始。
Representatives of Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, CureVac and Inovio Pharmaceuticals also attended, and Inovio has developed a gene vaccine against the Zika virus and said its research on a new crown vaccine will begin in April.
再多的报道也改变不了 Moderna 等制药公司的新型疫苗研发技术还未经测试的事实。
No amount of reporting can alter the fact that pharmaceutical companies like Modern have yet to test new vaccine development techniques.
实际上，目前没人知道这些技术是否真的能研制出有效的疫苗。
In fact, no one knows whether these technologies will actually produce an effective vaccine.
Moderna 制药公司研制出了 “mRNA 疫苗，” 这是一种包含病毒遗传信息且可以直接注射到人体的病毒样颗粒。
Modern Pharma has developed the "mRNA vaccine," a viral particle that contains genetic information about the virus and can be injected directly into the body.
虽然 Moderna 等公司研制疫苗的新技术进展很快，但目前这些疫苗还没有拿到销售许可。
Although new technologies, such as that used by companies such as Moderna, are making rapid progress in developing vaccines, they have not yet been licensed for sale.
虽然疫苗研制起步很快，但任何疫苗的研发都必须确保其安全性，并且能保护人体免受感染。
Although vaccine development is fast, any vaccine must be developed to ensure its safety and to protect against infection.
福西表示，这一过程至少需要 18 个月的时间。
Mr Fossi said the process would take at least 18 months.
疫苗安全性测试可能只需要 3 个月，但只有疫情爆发区成百上千的人都接种疫苗之后，才可以确定疫苗接种是否真的有效。
Vaccine safety testing may take as little as three months, but only after hundreds of people in the outbreak area have been vaccinated can it be determined whether the vaccination is really effective.
无论采用哪种技术，这一过程都需要 1 年的时间。
Whichever technology is used, the process will take a year.
好消息和假消息Moderna 制药公司 2 月底宣布向 NIH 提交首个抗新冠疫苗试剂之后，其股价短时间内上涨了 30%，虽然整体药物市场萎靡不振，但该公司股票市值达到了 110 亿美元的巅峰。
Good News And False News After Moderna announced late in February that it had submitted its first reagent for the new crown vaccine to NIH, its share price rose 30% in a short time, reaching a $11 billion peak in market capitalization despite the overall drug market slump.
志愿者有望在本月中接种到 Moderna 公司的抗新冠疫苗。
The volunteers are expected to be vaccinated this month with Moderna's New Crown vaccine.
实际上，疫苗的相关进展十分顺利。
In fact, the vaccine-related progress has been very successful.
班塞尔表示，从研究 “病毒遗传序列开始，” 他的公司仅用 42 天就将疫苗试剂寄给了 NIH 的福西团队。
Banserl says his company sent reagents to NIH's Fossey team in just 42 days, starting with "genetic sequencing of the virus."
通过将病毒的遗传信息添加到病毒样颗粒，Moderna 公司成功研制出了疫苗试剂。
By adding genetic information from the virus to viral particles, Moderna succeeded in developing vaccine reagents.
该公司的想法是将病毒突刺蛋白的遗传序列注射到人体细胞。
The idea is to inject the genetic sequence of the virus's spike protein into human cells.
将其注射到人体之后，病毒样颗粒可以激发人体免疫反应，从而对抗这种病毒感染。
When injected into the body, viral particles can trigger the body's immune response and thus fight the virus.
自 1 月份以来，班塞尔及其他研究人员一直在剑桥市的 Moderna 公司办公室密切追踪疫情发展动态。
Since January, Banzer and other researchers have been closely following the epidemic in the offices of the company Modern in Cambridge.
首先，他们需要知道武汉爆发的新型冠状病毒的遗传序列。
First, they need to know the genetic sequence of the new coronavirus that broke out in Wuhan.
中国科学家将病毒遗传序列发布到网上之后，Moderna 公司的研究人员找到了病毒突刺蛋白的遗传序列。
After Chinese scientists posted the virus's genetic sequence online, researchers at Modern discovered the genetic sequence of the virus's spike protein.
然后，他们开始在马萨诸塞州诺伍德市的药物生产中心生产突刺蛋白 mRNA，将其添加到脂质病毒样颗粒，并放入无菌瓶当中。
They then began to produce mRNA from prickly proteins at a pharmaceutical manufacturing center in Norwood, Massachusetts, adding them to lipovirus-like particles and placing them in sterile vials.
整个研发过程中，Moderna 公司甚至不需要实际感染的病毒样本。
Throughout the development process, Moderna did not even need samples of the virus actually infected.
“我们可以利用病毒遗传序列完成疫苗的研制。
"We can use the genetic sequence of viruses to complete the development of vaccines.
只要中国科学家网上发布了病毒的遗传序列，我们和其他研究人员就可以自行下载并进行研究，”Moderna 公司总裁史蒂芬 · 霍格在 1 月的采访中表示。
As long as Chinese scientists post genetic sequences of the virus online, we and other researchers can download and conduct our own research, "Stephen Hogg, president of Modern, said in a January interview.
Moderna 公司已经通过这种技术研发了一些试验型疫苗应对流感等传染病，这种研发技术也可以用于对抗新型冠状病毒。
Through this technology, Moderna has developed a number of experimental vaccines against infectious diseases such as influenza, which could also be used to fight the new coronavirus.
只需找到抗新冠疫苗所需的 RNA 即可。
All you need to do is find the RNA needed for the new crown vaccine.
“这就好比替换一个软件，而不是重新开发整台计算机，”Strand Therapeutics 生物技术公司 CEO 雅各布 · 贝克拉夫特表示，该公司正在利用病毒 RNA 序列研发疫苗和癌症药物。
"It's like replacing a piece of software rather than redeveloping the whole computer," said Jacob Beclaft, CEO of Strand Therapeutics Biotechnology, which uses viral RNA sequences to develop vaccines and cancer drugs.
“这也是 Moderna 公司疫苗研发进展迅速的原因。
"This is why research and development for vaccines at Modern is progressing rapidly.
”Moderna 公司表示，其疫苗研发技术是安全的：针对广泛的传染病治疗，目前该公司已经对 1000 名测试群体进行了 6 项早期安全性测试。
Moderna says its vaccine development technology is safe: it has conducted six early-stage safety tests on a wide range of infectious-disease treatments for 1,000 people.
不过，该公司从未明确表示该技术研发的疫苗一定可以保护人体免于病毒感染。
But the company has never made it clear that vaccines developed by the technology are certain to protect against viral infections.
“这一技术研发的所有疫苗目前都没有拿到正式的审批，”贝勒大学国家热带医学院院长，疫苗专家彼得 · 霍兹在 3 月 8 日的国会听证会上表示。
"None of the vaccines developed by this technology has been officially approved yet," vaccine expert Peter Hodges, dean of the National Tropical Medicine Institute at Baylor University, said at a congressional hearing on March 8.
霍兹在发言时表示，他本人也曾研制出未经临床测试的 SARS 疫苗，他非常反感制药公司不惜一切手段提高声誉的做法。
In his speech, Mr. Hodges said he, too, had developed a non-clinical version of the SARS vaccine, and he resented any attempt by pharmaceutical companies to boost their reputation.
“很遗憾，生物技术领域的一些同仁确实在夸大其词，”他对立法议员表示。
"Unfortunately, some colleagues in biotechnology are exaggerating," he told lawmakers.
“生物技术领域的新闻有很多，但我对其中一些消息不太认同。
"There's a lot of news about biotechnology, but I don't agree with some of it.
”Moderna 公司并没有对霍兹的评论予以回应，也没有解释特朗普是否对班塞尔的回答有所误解。
Moderna did not respond to Hodges' comments, nor did it explain whether Trump had misunderstood Banzer's answer.
“目前我们无可奉告，”该公司发言人科琳 · 休西表示。
"We have no comment at the moment," said Colleen Hughes, the company's spokesman.
常见疫苗疫苗种类疫苗可基本分为 6 种，其中包括灭活病毒、毒性减弱的病毒以及注射病毒蛋白的疫苗。
Vaccines for common vaccine types can be divided into six groups, including inactivated viruses, weakened viruses, and vaccines that inject viral proteins.
这些疫苗的目的都是让人体接触病毒成分，刺激血细胞制造抗体。
The aim of these vaccines is to expose the body to viral components and stimulate blood cells to make antibodies.
然后人体免疫系统就可以在传染病发生时起到保护作用。
The human immune system can then act as a protector in the event of an infectious disease.
“研究人员尝试了所有方法研制抗新冠疫苗，”宾夕法尼亚大学 RNA 疫苗专家德鲁 · 魏斯曼表示。
"Researchers have tried all methods to develop a new crown vaccine," says Drew Weisman, a RNA vaccine specialist at the University of Pennsylvania.
他表示，“利用新冠病毒研制疫苗并没有那么困难。
"Developing a vaccine with the new crown virus is not that difficult," he said.
”每种技术都有利有弊，其中一些技术进展缓慢。
Each technology has advantages and disadvantages, and some of them are slow.
举个例子，法国知名的赛诺菲（Sanofi）制药公司正在投资研制一种常规型的抗新冠疫苗，该公司表示，疫苗的研发可能需要 6 个月的时间。
For example, the well-known French pharmaceutical company Sanofi is investing in the development of a conventional New Crown vaccine, which it says could take six months to develop.
临床测试至少也要等到 2021 年。
Clinical trials will have to wait at least until 2021.
mRNA 疫苗的区别和前景在于，一旦研制成功，它可以通过改变基因迅速对抗新冠病毒。
The difference and promise of mRNA vaccines is that, once developed, they can quickly fight the new crown virus by altering genes.
“这个速度是非常快的，而且只有 RNA 疫苗可以做到这一点，但没人可以保证这种疫苗一定能起到作用，”麻省理工学院合成生物学家，Strand Therapeutics 公司联合创始人罗恩 · 韦斯表示。
"It's very fast, and only a RNA vaccine can do it, but there's no guarantee it will work," says Ron Weiss, a synthetic biologist at MIT and co-founder of Strand Therapeutics.
“疫苗的面世不可能在几个月内实现。
"The vaccine will not be available in a few months.
今年夏天也不可能。
Not this summer.
这是一种很有前景但未经证实的疫苗研发技术。
This is a promising but unproven vaccine development technology.
虽然未经证实，但我对这一技术非常感兴趣，不过我们在研发新型疫苗时必须要小心谨慎。
Although unproven, I am very interested in this technology, but we have to be careful when developing new vaccines.
这种疫苗的疗效可以充分发挥吗？持续性怎么样？会引起不良反应吗？魏斯曼表示，利用病毒 DNA 或 RNA 研发基因疫苗的想法已有 30 年的历史，但这种疫苗在临床测试中引发了不良的免疫反应，某种程度上讲，这种疫苗还缺乏足够的疗效。
Is the vaccine fully effective? How sustainable? Can it cause adverse reactions? Weisman says the idea of using viral DNA or RNA to develop a gene vaccine has 30 years of history, but the vaccine has triggered an adverse immune response in clinical trials and, to some extent, lacks sufficient efficacy.
魏斯曼表示，这些问题目前还没有完全解决，他研制出了一种化学改良试剂，宾夕法尼亚大学将这一专利出售给了 Moderna 公司以及魏斯曼目前正在合作的德国 BioNTech 生物技术公司。
Weisman said these problems were not completely solved until he developed a reagent for chemical modification, which the University of Pennsylvania sold to Modern and the German biotechnology company BioNTech, which Weisman is collaborating on.
魏斯曼表示，Moderna 公司只发布了两种顺利通过流感疫苗安全性测试的 RNA 疫苗，他认为这一结果喜忧参半，因为这两种疫苗并没有刺激人体产生足够的免疫力。
Weisman said the company released only two RNA vaccines that successfully passed a flu vaccine safety test, a mixed result, he said, because the two vaccines did not stimulate enough immunity.
魏斯曼认为，疫苗试剂中的 RNA 受到污染可能是主要原因。
The contamination of RNA in vaccine reagents could be the main cause, Weisman said.
“我们需要关注两件事：Moderna 公司研制的疫苗用于动物的临床反应以及用于人体的反应。
"We need to focus on two things: the clinical response of animals to vaccines developed by Modern and the reactions in humans.
小鼠和猴子等动物的临床反应都非常见效”，他表示。
Clinical responses in animals such as mice and monkeys have been very effective, "he said.
“虽然 Moderna 公司的测试结果还算过得去，虽然动物的临床测试结果比常规型疫苗要好很多，但这种疫苗的疗效还是远低于预期水平。
"Although the results of the Moderna test are reasonable, and although clinical trials in animals are much better than conventional vaccines, the efficacy of the vaccine is far below expectations.
”Moderna 公司研制的抗新冠疫苗可能也会出现类似的问题，虽然这种疫苗首次出现，它也有可能被疗效更好的常规型疫苗取代。
A similar problem is likely with the Moderna vaccine, which is likely to be replaced by a more effective conventional vaccine, although it is the first to appear.
“我们在投资新产品时总是往好的地方想，”他表示。
"We always think for the better when we invest in new products," he says.
“否则的话我们怎么能推陈出新呢？”安全测试但几乎可以确定的是，Moderna 公司研发出了首个可进行接种的抗新冠疫苗。
"How else can we make a difference?" Safety tests but almost certainly, Moderna has developed the first vaccine that can be inoculated.
《波士顿环球报》报道称，NIH 已经在招募第一阶段安全测试的志愿者，第一名志愿者有望于本月中在西雅图的凯萨医疗机构华盛顿健康研究所接种抗新冠疫苗，目前西雅图的疫情十分严重。
The Boston Globe reported that NIH had been recruiting volunteers for the first phase of safety testing and that the first volunteer was expected to be vaccinated this month at the Washington Institute of Health at Casa Medical Center in Seattle, where the Seattle outbreak is severe.
医生会跟进健康志愿者的临床反应，并检查他们的身体是否可以产生病毒抗体。
Doctors follow up on the clinical responses of healthy volunteers and check whether their bodies produce viral antibodies.
研究人员会抽取志愿者血样，并通过实验观察其是否可以 “中和” 病毒。
The researchers took blood samples from volunteers and tested to see if they could neutralize the virus.
志愿者对病毒的免疫力取决于血清中的抗体水平，这些抗体会附着在病毒的突刺蛋白上并阻止病毒侵入人体。
The volunteers' immunity to the virus depends on antibody levels in the serum, which attach to the virus's prickly protein and prevent viruses from invading the body.
如果此次安全测试顺利完成，第二阶段安全测试很可能会在今年夏天开始，以确定疫苗接种人群是否可以抵御病毒入侵。
If the safety test is successfully completed, a second-phase safety test is likely to begin this summer to determine whether the vaccinated population can withstand the virus.
不过福西表示，第二阶段的安全测试结果需要很多来自疫情严重区的人接种疫苗才能确定，而且这些人存在被感染的风险。
But Fauci said the second phase of the safety test results will require a large number of people from highly affected areas to be vaccinated, and they are at risk of infection.
“我们需要在疫情严重区进行测试，因此我们可能需要一年甚至一年半的时间才能得出疫苗的真实疗效，”福西对《美国医学会杂志》编辑霍华德 · 鲍赫纳表示，相关的访谈内容发布在了近期 JAMA 播客中。
"We need to test in high-impact areas, so it may take us a year or even a year and a half to get the vaccine's true efficacy," Fossey told Howard Bohner, editor of the American Medical Association Journal.
疫苗不能救命 试验性疫苗的缺陷在于，有关部门可能会因为新型疫苗的出现放缓旅游管制和关闭学校等防控措施，这些行为已经造成了大量的经济损失。
The drawback to the vaccine's failure to save lives is that authorities could slow travel controls and shut down schools with the advent of new vaccines, which have already caused substantial economic losses.
接下来需要关注的是政府是否以及如何快速跟进疫苗研制的相关工作。
The next concern is whether and how quickly the government will follow up on vaccine development.
参加白宫新闻发布会的部分公司高管向政府提出了一些要求，包括要求政府投入更多资金帮助制药公司建厂，还有一些人建议 FDA 适当加快疫苗的检测速度。
Some executives at the White House news conference have made demands on the government, including asking for more government money to help drug companies build factories, and others suggesting the FDA speed up testing for the vaccine appropriately.
虽然没人明确表示同意推出未经充分测试的疫苗，但公司高管们向政府要钱建厂以及要求 FDA 放宽复杂的疫苗检测等提议也表明，他们的这些想法只是心照不宣罢了。
While no one has explicitly agreed to introduce an undertested vaccine, the idea that executives are asking the government for money to build the plant and for the FDA to relax its complicated vaccine testing also suggests that these ideas are tacit.
福西表示，这种急于求成的行为十分不可取。
Mr Fauci said such a hasty action would be highly undesirable.
虽然 FDA 有办法加快疫苗检测速度，但任何跳过科学验证就用于人体接种的疫苗都很可能适得其反。
While the FDA has a way to speed up vaccine testing, any vaccine that is used to vaccinate people by skipping scientific validation is likely to backfire.
有时疫苗接种不仅没有疗效，还会出现不良反应。
Sometimes vaccination is not only ineffective, but also adverse reactions.
霍兹将这种反应称为 “免疫促进作用，” 他在测试自己研制的 SARS 疫苗时发现小鼠产生了这种反应。
Hodges calls the reaction "immune-promoting," which he found in mice when he tested his own SARS vaccine.
福西在 JAMA 的访谈播客中表示，“如果抗新冠疫苗未经测试就进行接种，可能会出现意想不到的后果。
"There could be unintended consequences if the vaccine is not tested," Fossi said in an interview podcast at JAMA.
”面对身体健康的疫苗接种者，疫苗研制没有任何犯错的余地：“抗新冠疫苗会在不久的将来正式面世，我们必须给公众一个满意的答复。
In the face of healthy vaccinators, there is no room for error: "The new vaccine will be available in the near future, and we must give the public a satisfactory answer."
”-End-。
- End-.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
新冠疫苗面世至少需要18个月。
It will take at least 18 months for the new crown vaccine to be available.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "DeepTech深科技";。
var nickname = & quot; DeepTech & quot;;
var msg_title = "新冠疫苗面世至少需要18个月";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "2020 年 3 月 2 日，美国总统特朗普携白宫新冠病毒工作组成员与生物技术公司举行了会议。
var msg _ desc = & quot; US President Trump held a meeting with biotechnology companies on March 2, 2020 with members of the White House Working Group on the New Crown Virus.
各生物技术公司";。
; Biotechnology companies & quot;;
var title ="DeepTech深科技";。
var title = & quot; DeepTech & quot;;
