给体育大年算本账。
Count the sports year.
郭儒逸。
Guo Ruyi.
商业人物                      。
Business people.
商业人物。
Business people.
定义中国商业力量。
Defining China's commercial power.
作者：郭儒逸来源：商业人物（ID：biz-leaders)欧洲足坛停摆，NBA全面休战，欧洲杯、奥运会或将推迟——正在全球肆虐的新冠肺炎疫情，将整个世界体坛卷入一场罕见危机。
Author: Guo Ruyi: The collapse of European football, the NBA's general truce, and the prospect of a European Cup, Olympic Games may be postponed - the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia, which is raging around the world, has plunged the world into a rare crisis.
2020原本是个全球体育大年，但各职业赛事的被迫调整，不仅在竞技层面产生很多变数，背后的经济损失一时也难以估量。
2020 is originally a global sports year, but the forced adjustment of professional events, not only in the competitive level produced many variables, the economic losses behind the incalculable.
那么这笔账，该怎么算？混乱的足球账本随着形势持续恶化，目前欧洲已成为新的疫情中心，其中意大利、西班牙和德国等更是重灾区。
With the situation deteriorating, Europe has become the new epicentre of the epidemic, with Italy, Spain and Germany among the worst hit.
受此影响，欧洲五大联赛（英超、西甲、意甲、德甲和法甲）均告停摆。
As a result, the five major European leagues (Premier League, Spanish, Serie A, German and French) have all been suspended.
按照正常时间表，各主要联赛应于5月中下旬结束本赛季，但停赛使局面变得十分棘手。
According to the normal schedule, the major leagues are due to finish the season in the second half of May, but the suspension makes the situation very difficult.
竞技层面的冲击首当其冲。
Competitive shocks bear the brunt.
目前除英超和法甲之外，其余三大联赛的冠军争夺仍难分难解。
In addition to the Premier League and France, the remaining three league championships are still inseparable.
各联赛升降级情况和下赛季欧战（欧冠、欧联杯）名额的分配，也将直接取决于最终的联赛排名，因此联赛延期甚至取消会是相当糟糕的结果。
The league promotions and next season's Europa League (Champions League, UEFA Cup) allocation will also depend directly on the final league table, so a delay or cancellation would be a bad result.
而与场上竞技直接挂钩的，是巨大的经济利益。
And directly linked to the field of competition, is a huge economic benefit.
足球俱乐部的收入通常包括比赛日收入（如门票）、转播权收入、竞赛分红以及商业收入（如赞助商、周边产品）等，欧洲顶级联赛球队——尤其豪门俱乐部每年可凭此获得不菲的收入。
Football clubs' revenues typically include day-to-day revenues (such as tickets), rights-based revenue, competition bonuses, and business income (such as sponsors, peripheral products), which make it possible for Europe's top league teams - especially the big clubs - to make a tidy sum each year.
此前联赛尚未停摆时，不少球队通过空场的方式“自救”，虽然损失了部分门票收入，但基本确保了更为“赚钱”的转播收入。
Before the league has not stopped, many teams through the empty way "self-help," although the loss of some ticket revenue, but basically ensure more "earned" transmission revenue.
不过随着联赛暂停，与版权购买方的交涉或许就陷入麻烦。
But with the league suspended, dealing with copyright buyers may be in trouble.
据西班牙媒体科贝电台从西甲联盟内部获取的资料显示，如果西甲、西乙一直停摆到赛季结束，各项损失将预计达到6.8亿欧元。
According to information obtained by the Spanish media from within the Spanish league, losses are expected to reach 680 million euros if Spain and Spain remain suspended until the end of the season.
其中西甲在转播收入上预计损失4.94亿欧元，西乙是5500万欧元；门票方面，西甲和西乙合计将损失4000万欧元以上，季票收入则将减少8800万欧元。
Spain is expected to lose 494 million euros on transmission revenue and 55 million euros on ticket sales, while Spain and Spain will lose more than 40 million euros on tickets and 88 million euros on season tickets.
国内联赛收益受损之外，参加本赛季欧冠（欧洲俱乐部最高水平赛事）的各支球队还将面临额外损失。
As well as losing profits in the domestic league, teams participating in this season's Champions League, Europe's highest level event, will face additional losses.
目前该赛事已进入十六进八的淘汰赛阶段，原计划决赛将于5月30日上演。
The tournament has now entered the elimination stage of the 16th in88th, the final is scheduled to be staged on May 30.
如果取消，从32强中冲杀出来的这些球队，则无法从这项关注度极高的赛事中继续获益。
If eliminated, these teams, washed out of the top 32, will not be able to continue to benefit from this high-profile event.
根据欧足联早先公布的方案，本赛季欧冠参与球队将获得20.4亿欧元奖金预算。
According to an earlier UEFA plan, the Champions League team will receive a budget of 2.04 billion euros this season.
其中，从小组赛到淘汰赛直至最后决赛，每轮晋级的球队均会获得相应奖金，期间每胜一场或平一场还会分别奖励270万欧、90万欧。
From the group stage to the knockout stages to the final, each team is awarded a prize of 2.7 million euros and 900,000 euros for each win or draw.
照此计算，如果一只球队全胜夺冠，仅此一项便能拿到1.0135亿欧元。
At this rate, if a team wins the championship, it alone will get 101.35 million euros.
而转播收入分配、门票销售等再另算。
The rebroadcast income distribution, ticket sales and so on calculate separately.
即便对欧洲最富有的足球俱乐部而言，欧冠收入在整个赛季营收中也占到相当比例。
Even for Europe's wealthiest football clubs, the Champions League accounts for a significant share of revenues throughout the season.
如今厮杀了大半个赛季的各支球队，却很可能丧失这一大块蛋糕。
Teams that have been fighting for the better part of the season are likely to lose that big piece of cake.
俱乐部层面的经济影响还不止于此。
The economic impact at the club level does not stop there.
在国内联赛和欧战赛事结束之后，每年6月-8月是最重要的球员转会交易时间，谈判引援、续约等都需要在这一窗口期完成。
After the domestic league and European games, June-August is the most important transfer time for players, negotiations, contract renewal and so on need to be completed in this window.
如果疫情导致本赛季赛程变化，无疑会给夏窗操作带来一系列连锁反应，最终也会反映在球队的账面上。
If the epidemic causes a change in the season schedule, there will no doubt be a chain reaction to the operation of summer windows, and eventually will be reflected in the team's book.
在国家队层面，冲击最严重的是原定于六七月份举办的欧洲杯。
At the national level, the worst hit was the European Championship, originally scheduled for June and July.
截至目前，欧洲11个举办国家中多数已被疫情“攻陷”，为此已掏出逾40亿欧元预算的欧足联，不得不在3月17日开会讨论应对方案。
So far, most of Europe's 11 host countries have been "captured" by the epidemic, and UEFA, which has a budget of more than €4 billion, had to meet on March 17 to discuss the response.
欧足联刚在上个赛季创下非欧洲杯年度的收入纪录，自然会对今年的欧洲杯更充满期待。
UEFA, having just set a non-European record last season, will naturally look forward to this year's Europa League.
但如果欧洲杯延期（不乏有建议延期至明年夏天举办），局面将大不一样。
But if the Europa League were to be postponed (and some suggested it be postponed until next summer), the situation would be quite different.
不仅欧足联先期投入的大量资金可能打水漂，而且早先签订的赞助合同、转播合同等，还可能涉及一系列违约赔偿、重新签订、价格谈判等，这些无疑将是意料外的经济麻烦。
Not only is the amount of money UEFA has invested up front likely to be worthless, but early sponsorship contracts, rebroadcasting contracts, etc., may also involve a series of defaults, resignations, price negotiations, etc., which will no doubt be unexpected economic troubles.
NBA收入遭重创篮球世界的情况同样不乐观。
NBA revenue pummeled Basketball World is no better off.
由于美国严峻的疫情形势，NBA总裁肖华（Adam Silver）13日表示，联赛将至少中断30天，不排除直接取消赛季的可能。
As a result of the severe situation in the United States, NBA President Adam Silver said on the 13th, the league will be suspended for at least 30 days, not excluding the possibility of a direct cancellation of the season.
这是NBA历史上的第六次停摆，不过因疫情暂停尚属首次。
It was the sixth stoppage in NBA history, but it was the first time the game had been suspended.
目前NBA接近常规赛收官阶段，季后赛将于4月中旬开始捉对厮杀，6月将举行总决赛。
The NBA is nearing the end of the regular season, with the playoffs starting in mid-April and the NBA Finals in June.
以往这个时期火爆的球市，现在却只能面临票价下跌乃至无票可售的场面。
Flaming ball markets in the past have had to face falling ticket prices and even no tickets to sell.
NBA的主要收入大致包括转播权、门票销售和特许经营产品等。
The NBA's main revenues include broadcast rights, ticket sales and franchising.
在上个赛季的88亿美元总收入中，门票收入约占22%，电视转播收入约占30%，两者合计超过五成。
Ticket revenue accounted for about 22 per cent of last season's total revenue of $8.8 billion, and television broadcast revenue for about 30 per cent, combined exceeding 50 per cent.
此外，NBA每支球队运营收入平均达到7000万美元。
In addition, NBA operating income averages $70 million per team.
①在3月13日勇士与篮网进行的空场比赛中，当时勇士高层预测每场损失为250万美元，这是全联盟最高的票房之一。
At the time, Warrior executives predicted a loss of $2.5m per game, one of the highest box office records in the league.
考虑到其他门票收入较低的球队（每场约100万美元左右），以平均每场200万美元计算，现在剩下的260余场常规赛门票损失将超过5亿美元。
Considering other teams with lower ticket incomes (around $1 million per game), at an average cost of $2 million per game, the remaining 260 regular season tickets will now lose more than $500 million.
而如果季后赛赛程也受到影响的话，这方面损失将进一步扩大。
And if the playoffs are also affected, the losses could widen.
转播收入方面，早在2014年，TNT和ESPN斥资240亿美元与NBA签订为期9年的转播合约，有效期至2024-2025赛季。
As far back as 2014, TNT and ESPN spent $24 billion on a nine-year broadcast contract with the NBA for the 2024-2025 season.
这笔年均26.7亿美元的转播权收入，占到NBA全年收入的30%左右。
That revenue of $2.67 billion a year represents about 30% of the NBA's annual revenue.
高收视率的NBA比赛暂停，意味着电视节目的排期和大量广告收入均遭波及。
The suspension of the high-profile NBA games meant that the scheduling of television programmes and large advertising revenues were affected.
NBA是否需要返还费用或如何赔偿，这笔复杂的账目暂难以计算清楚。
Whether, or how, the NBA will have to pay back fees, the intricate accounts are hard to figure out.
肖华此前接受媒体采访时表示，已与电视转播方有过协商，即使停赛一个月或者一个半月，NBA也能够直接重启赛季，总决赛可以安排在7月进行。
In an earlier interview with reporters, Xiao said there had been negotiations with television broadcasters that the NBA could restart the season directly, even if the suspension was for a month or a half, with the NBA finals scheduled for July.
这是比较乐观的估计，将取决于疫情的发展形势。
This is a more optimistic estimate and will depend on the evolution of the epidemic.
从当前情况看，NBA方面的类似保证很难确保奏效。
As things stand, similar assurances in the NBA are hardly a guarantee of success.
作为全球最能“吸金”的职业联赛之一，NBA停摆还将使众多赞助商蒙受损失。
The NBA stoppage, one of the world's most lucrative professional leagues, will also cost many sponsors.
借助联盟复杂的赞助体系，NBA官方、各球队以及明星球员均有赞助或品牌代言在身。
With the league's complex sponsorship system, NBA officials, teams and star players all have sponsors or brand endorsements.
在中国市场，NBA也有多达25家品牌赞助商。
In China, the NBA also has as many as 25 brand sponsors.
赛事暂停或取消，不仅将严重影响其品牌曝光，后续执行恐也引发变数。
The suspension or cancellation of the event will not only seriously affect the exposure of its brand, the subsequent implementation may also trigger variables.
日本“奥运经济”遇阻在常规职业联赛之外，今年最受瞩目的全球性赛事，无疑是7月24日开幕的东京奥运会。
Japan's Olympic economy is stymied by conventional professional leagues, and this year's most visible global event is undoubtedly the Tokyo Olympics, which opened on July 24.
去年下半年，日本经济遭遇五年来最严重的一次萎缩，奥运会被寄予了提振经济的厚望。
In the second half of last year, Japan's economy suffered its worst contraction in five years, and hopes were high that the Games would boost the economy.
日本政府原本预期今年可以吸引4000万外国游客，比去年增长25%左右。
Japan's government had expected to attract 40 million foreign tourists this year, up about 25 percent from last year.
在奥运结束之后，还希望能在十年内获得约3000亿美元的经济效应。
After the Olympics, it is hoped to achieve an economic impact of about $300 billion within a decade.
但全球蔓延的疫情，至少使今年的目标恐难实现。
But the global epidemic threatens to derail at least this year's targets.
当前国际奥委会和日本仍在力争奥运会正常举办，考虑到日本前期已经投入超270亿美元，如果取消承办，面临的将是“不可想象”的损失。
The IOC and Japan are still vying for the games to go ahead, facing "unthinkable" losses if they cancel their contracts, given that Japan has already spent more than $27 billion in the pre-Games period.
日本奥组委执行委员会成员高桥治之表示，取消奥运、或者是不开放观众入场，都会造成非常大的经济损失。
Gao Qiaozhi, a member of the executive committee of the Japan Organizing Committee for the Games, said cancelling the games or not allowing spectators would result in very large economic losses.
如果延期几个月举行，则又可能与美国和欧洲的职业赛事撞期。
If postponed for a few months, it could coincide with professional tournaments in the United States and Europe.
②作为个人见解，他认为如果形势所迫，比较现实的选项是延期1年或2年。
"As a matter of personal opinion, he believes that a one-year or two-year extension would be a more realistic option if circumstances dictate.
高桥治之对延期的担忧不无道理。
Takahashi is right to worry about the delay.
上届里约奥运会中，国际奥委会约70%的收入来自转播权收入。
At the last Rio Games, the IOC earned about 70% of its revenue from broadcast rights.
如果奥运会同时与其他热门赛事竞争，关注度被分流会是大概率事件。
If the Olympics compete with other hot events at the same time, attention diversion can be a big probabilistic event.
赞助商的担忧情绪也在加剧。
Sponsors' fears are also mounting.
据英国《金融时报》报道，三家日本主要赞助商的高管私下表示，尽管官方一再保证，但奥运会存在延期可能。
Executives from three of Japan's main sponsors have privately said the games could be postponed despite repeated official assurances, the Financial Times reported.
目前这三家赞助商已共投入逾2亿美元，其中两家还是本届奥运会15家“黄金”赞助商（即15家投入资金最多的国内赞助商）。
The three sponsors have already invested more than $200m, two of which are also the 15 'gold' sponsors of the Games (the top 15 domestic sponsors).
事实上，东京奥组委已为赞助事宜颇费心血。
In fact, the Tokyo Organizing Committee has put a lot of effort into sponsoring the event.
按照计划，其准备组建一支由46家大型企业组成的日本赞助商大军，其中不乏在国内家喻户晓的企业。
The plan is to form a army of 46 large Japanese companies, some of which are household names at home.
而本届奥运会，也将成为体育史上受到赞助最多的一届赛事。
The Olympics will also be the most sponsored event in the history of sports.
但如果奥运会不能正常举办，如何保证他们的利益，是一个巨大的疑问。
But if the Olympic Games cannot be held properly, how to safeguard their interests is a huge question.
而原本会因奥运受益的部分日本上市企业，近期股价已持续走跌，显示出投资者的信心受挫。
Shares of some Japanese-listed companies that would have benefited from the Olympics have continued to tumble in recent days, signalling a loss of investor confidence.
“商业人物”注意到，东京奥运会的主要推广机构电通集团（日本最大广告公司），自2月6日以来股价一路下跌，截至3月13日收盘已跌45%；同一时期，日本运动服装制造商美津浓的股价跌幅也超过40%。
Business figures have noticed that telecoms group, Japan's biggest advertising company, the main promoter of the Tokyo Olympics, has fallen 45 per cent since Feb. 6 and 45 per cent by March 13, while Mizuno, the Japanese sportswear maker, also fell more than 40 per cent in the same period.
目前日本官方尚未确定取消奥运的经济损失，但如果一旦取消，期待经济下半年反弹的愿望或将落空。
Japanese officials have yet to determine the economic cost of cancelling the games, but if cancelled, hopes of a rebound in the second half of the year could be dashed.
而据日本民间预测，奥运告吹将损失约7万亿日元（合660亿美元），相当于国内生产总值的1.4%。
Japanese folk predict a loss of about Y7,000bn ($66bn), or 1.4 per cent of GDP, if the Games fail.
③路透援引消息人士称，在日本政府将于4月份编制的经济刺激方案中，可能就会将这一意外风险考虑在内。
The unexpected risk is likely to be factored into the government's stimulus package in April, Reuters quoted sources as saying.
按照计划，奥运圣火原本应于3月20日从希腊到达日本，但目前希腊境内的圣火传递已经暂停。
According to the plan, the Olympic flame should have arrived in Japan from Greece on March 20, but the torch relay in Greece has been suspended.
日本的“奥运经济”梦，正在遭遇自身难以左右的巨大障碍。
Japan's dream of an "Olympic economy" is encountering formidable obstacles of its own.
2020年的体坛赛场，势必相当不平坦。
The world of sports in 2020 is bound to be rather bumpy.
参考资料：①王晓枫，NBA首次因传染病停摆，要赔多少亿美元？《财经》②东京奥组会成员称“延期1或2年也是选项”，日经中文网③独家：日本经济决策者已开始考虑取消东京奥运会的影响，路透*头图购买于视觉中国推荐阅读严正声明：“商业人物”所有原创文章，转载均须获授权。
(Xinhua) -- Japan's economic policymakers have begun to consider removing the impact of the Tokyo Olympic Games, said Sun Yat-sen, a member of the Tokyo Organizing Committee for the 2008 Olympic Games.
一切形式非法转载，包括但不限于盗转、未获“商业人物”授权通过第三方转载行为，均属侵权行为，“商业人物”将公布“黑名单”并追究法律责任。
All forms of illegal reproduction, including, but not limited to, theft and unauthorized reprinting by a third party without the authorization of a "business person," who will publish the "blacklist" and will be held liable.
“商业人物”只愿与尊重知识产权的机构合作。
"Business people" are willing to cooperate only with institutions that respect intellectual property rights.
投稿、约访、合作，联系邮箱：bizleaders@qq.com添加微信biz-leader，获转载授权或邀您加入商友群微信名：商业人物微信ID：biz-leaders1.长按右侧二维码即可关注。
Subscriptions, interviews, collaborations, contact mailboxes: bizleaders @ qq.com, get permission to reprint, or invite you to join the microphone group of business people: micro-ID: biz-leaders1. Click on the two-dimensional code on the right.
2.期待您置顶与星标。
2. Expect you to place your top and star.
欢迎分享与评论，欢迎通过留言或私信方式给我们提供选题线索。
Welcome to share and comment, welcome to leave a message or private letter to us to provide clues to the topic.
3.点击“阅读原文”，看商业人物官网，获取更多精彩内容。
3. Click on "Read the original text" to see the official website of business people, to get more wonderful content.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
给体育大年算本账。
Count the sports year.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "商业人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
var msg_title = "给体育大年算本账";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "疫情击中世界体坛。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; The outbreak hit world sports.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '企业法人胡锡进',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '没体检、没隔离、没有名分的方舱志愿者',。
A: No medical check-up, no quarantine, no name at all. & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '那场致1亿人死亡的流感刚发生时，美国政府与媒体在做什么？',。
What did the United States Government and the media do at the start of that flu that killed 100 million people?
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="商业人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
