离婚夫妻同处一室的隔离生活丨人间。
Divorced couples live in isolation into a room.
帕三绝。
Partridge three.
人间theLivings                      。
The Lives on earth.
人间theLivings。
The Lives on earth.
以叙事之美，重构我们的生活。
Restructure our lives with the beauty of narration.
。
.
她原本以为自己这一生都不会原谅这个叫做李自强的男人。
She thought she would never forgive this man called Li Zhiqiang.
没想到一场瘟疫，让一个仿佛永远不会认错的人学会了说对不起，也让一个从来没有想过会原谅的人，开始认真思考要不要回答对方一句“没关系”。
Unexpectedly, a plague, let a person who never seem to admit wrong learned to say sorry, but also let a person who never thought of forgive, began to seriously consider whether to answer each other "Never mind.
配图 |《坡道上的家》剧照1月22日上午，娟子接到母亲的电话，问她何时放假。
Gracefully received a telephone call from my mother on the morning of January 22, asking when she had a holiday.
娟子知道老人这是想她了——母亲去年因为脑瘤做了两次开颅手术，曾经命悬一线，后来死里逃生捡条性命，但术后身体却恢复得一般，性格也因此变得多愁善感。
Gracefully knowing that the old man missed her, my mother, who had had two craniotomy operations for a brain tumor last year, had a life-threatening situation, but recovered very little after the operation and became sentimental.
娟子姊妹3人祖籍锦州，她和二姐在90年代初来到了沈阳，相继在此立业、成家。
Juanzi sister 3 people ancestral Jinzhou, she and the second sister in the early 1990s came to Shenyang, where they established business and started a family.
大姐一家在锦州市里，母亲农村。
The eldest sister family is in Jinzhou, mother village.
乡下的平房冬天冷，于是，每到冬天，老人就轮流在三姐妹家里住，今年轮到来二姐家。
The bungalow in the country is cold in winter, so, every winter, the old man takes turns living in the three sisters' house.
娟子接到母亲电话时，刚刚在单位办好了离职手续。
Juanzi received a telephone call from his mother and had just finished the check-out procedure at the work unit.
跟那些为了更好的前途而离开的同事们不一样，42岁的娟子此次离开，实属被逼无奈：两个月前，上早班的她亲眼目睹了上司跟一个女同事在办公场所里的意犹未尽，之后，那个女同事仗着跟领导有这层关系，对娟子颐指气使，有意无意号召公司里其他同事孤立她。
Juanzi, 42, was forced to leave, unlike many colleagues who had left for a better future. Two months ago, she had witnessed the frustration of her boss and a female colleague in the office.
娟子知道，那女人的最终目的就是逼她走。
Juanzi knew that the ultimate goal of the woman was to force her to leave.
可她不敢走，在现在这个经济环境下，她这个年龄要想重新找到一份理想的工作，并非易事。
But she's afraid to leave, and in the current economic climate, it's not easy for her to find her ideal job again.
更不能跟外人说的是，她和李自强已于去年年初就协议离婚了，两人名下只有一套住房，暂时无法财产分割，再者，女儿即将升入高三，因此他们两口子便达成默契——暂时不对外宣布，一切等孩子高考完再说。
What is more, she and Li Ziqiang have agreed to divorce early last year, only a house in their name, temporarily unable to divide property, and the daughter is about to be promoted to the third year of high school, so the couple have reached a tacit agreement not to announce anything until after the college entrance examination.
为了离婚后生活的顺利，去年年底，娟子将自己的十几万“老本”和向两个姐姐借的七八万凑起来，贷款拿下了沈阳三环外的一套商品房。
In order to have a smooth life after the divorce, Juanzi made up his tens of thousands of "old books" and 780,000 borrowed from two sisters, and got a commercial house outside the Three Rings of Shenyang.
100多平的清水现房，每月房贷得2000多块。
More than 100 square water room, the monthly mortgage of more than 2,000.
娟子本想着今年大干一场，还清借款，最好能攒下装修费，待女儿高考完，她就能和前夫彻底划清界限——最后要能争点气，把日子过得更红火，让李自强和他家人看看！因此，无论那位女同事如何胡搅蛮缠，娟子都宁愿忍一时、退一步，绝不愤然离职。
Juanzi thought of doing a great job this year, paying off the loan, it is better to save the decoration fee, and when my daughter finishes the college entrance examination, she will be able to make a clean break with her ex-husband and let Li Zhiqiang and his family see.
可说来事巧，元旦刚过没几天，朋友张烨向娟子伸出了橄榄枝。
May say that coincidence, just a few days after New Year's Day, a friend Zhang Ye extended an olive branch to Juanzi.
张烨一直做实业，家底殷实，年后想再跟风整一家新媒体公司。
Zhang Ye has been doing business, rich family background, after the wind and want to complete a new media company.
娟子多年来一直奔波于传统媒体、户外媒体与新媒体中间，算是经验丰富。
Juanzi has been running through traditional media, outdoor media and new media for many years.
张烨承诺给娟子：原底薪两倍，提成另算，“如果半年后利润可观，还可以参与公司分股分红”。
Zhang Ye promises to give Jian Zi: the original base salary twice, commission calculation, "if the profits after half a year, but also can participate in the company sub-shares dividend."
娟子几乎是涕泗横流，发了一条自己才能看懂的朋友圈：上帝如果给你关上了一扇门，一定会为你打开一扇窗。
Graceful, almost aldicarb, I made a circle of friends that I could understand: If God closed a door for you, it would open a window for you.
她以为生活这是准备要对她收起獠牙、展露笑容了，于是便递交了辞职报告。
She thought it was time to hide her fangs and smile, and handed in her resignation report.
接到母亲电话时，娟子语气欢快地给老人说今年能好好陪陪她了。
Gracefully, I told the old man that I could accompany her well this year when I received my mother's phone call.
随后，便带着女儿去了二姐家。
Then he took her to his second sister's house.
姐姐姐夫两口子还没放假，当天下午，娟子让女儿留在家里复习，带着二外甥出门置备年货，再顺道给母亲买点常备药。
My sister and brother-in-law had not yet had a holiday, so I made my daughter stay at home to study, take my nephew out to prepare the new year's goods, and buy some medicine for my mother.
哪知，到了药房，听见好几个人想买口罩，却被店主告知口罩和酒精已经售罄。
Who knows, to the pharmacy, heard several people want to buy masks, but the owner told the mask and alcohol sold out.
当时娟子和二外甥都没戴口罩，对肺炎的认知还停留在新闻标题里，但那一瞬间，娟子意识到，这座看似平静的城市已经暗潮汹涌。
Juanzi and his nephew, not wearing masks at that time, knew about pneumonia only in the headlines, but at that moment, Juanzi realized that the seemingly calm city had been surging.
好在，另一家连锁大药房一次性口罩储备充足，10块钱一包，娟子咬咬牙，买了3包。
Fortunately, another chain of big pharmacy disposable mask stores sufficient, 10 yuan a bag, Ganzi teeth, bought three bags.
她当时想，自己留1包，剩下的2包给二姐家，60个口罩，怎样也够用了。
She thought at that time, oneself leaves 1 bag, the remaining 2 packs to second sister's home, 60 masks, how also enough.
可转天武汉封城，隔天沈阳的公交线路也相继停止运行。
Wuhan can be sealed the next day, the next day Shenyang bus lines have also stopped operation.
一开始还心存侥幸的娟子，在二姐家待不住了，“难道沈阳也要封城吗？”于是，吃过午饭后，娟子便带着女儿回家了。
Juanzi, who was very lucky at the beginning, was unable to stay in my second sister's house, but "Shenyang also needs to close the city?" So, after lunch, Juanzi took my daughter home.
娟子母女俩进家时，本来说去陪母亲过年的李自强也已经到家了。
Juanzi mother and daughter came home, originally said to accompany his mother to celebrate the New Year Li Zhiqiang has also reached home.
李自强是银行的产品经理，往年春节都会去值班。
Li Zhiqiang is the product manager of the bank and always goes on duty during Spring Festival.
见前妻和女儿回来，李自强还自顾自解释了下：“今天一大早，就有老头老太太陆续来取退休金，这些老人可不管什么病毒不病毒、传染不传染，有人连口罩都没戴，也不管什么安全距离，全都挤在一处，领导说也不听。
When his ex-wife and daughter returned, Li explained to himself, "Early this morning, old men and women came to collect their pensions, regardless of the virus, infection or infection, some people do not wear masks, no matter what the safety distance, all crowded together, the leadership said.
领导紧急请示上面，叫停了线下业务，除了值班的人，我们全放假了……”娟子点点头，也没多说什么——这些年，他们之间大多是这个状态。
The leader made an urgent request above and stopped the business offline, except for the people on duty, we all had a holiday... "Juanzi nodded, not saying anything more - most of these years, they were in this state.
李自强又接着说，这次疫情看来相当严重，“除了必须上班的时间，我也会待在家里，一切等情况稳定再说”。
Li went on to say that the outbreak appears to be serious. "I will stay at home except when I have to go to work and everything will be stable."
娟子“嗯”了一声便回屋了。
Gracefully, I went back to my room with a sound.
她这时还没慌，想着，反正都是假期，一切等到初八再说。
She did not panic, thinking, anyway is a holiday, until the eighth day of the month.
朋友群里还有人开玩笑说，“现在可好，响应国家号召在家里睡大觉”。
"Good," joked one of the group, "responding to the country's call to sleep at home."
唯一让娟子感到“别扭”是李自强要长时间待在家里——在这之前，他们基本不在一张桌子上吃饭，早餐各自在外面解决，午餐都在单位解决，晚上女儿在学校吃晚饭、上晚自习，李自强不是加班就是跟朋友出去，每天都很晚回家，到了家也是自己一个人闷在房间里玩手机、打游戏。
The only person who makes me feel uncomfortable is that Li Zhiqiang stays at home for a long time. Before that, they usually don't eat on the same table, have breakfast apart, have lunch at work, have dinner and study in the evening, Li Ziqiang either works overtime or goes out with friends.
她自己一个人的晚饭，对付一下就行。
She can cook dinner all by herself.
经此一“疫”，两个人碰面的时间倒多了起来。
As a result of the plague, the two men had more time to meet.
碍于女儿在，也只能坐在一起吃饭。
As a result of her daughter, she can only sit and eat together.
如果有人做饭，另外一个就洗碗。
If someone cooks, the other washes the dishes.
饭菜上桌，多半是把电视开着，然后只能听到碗筷的声音，两人匆匆吃完，又各自回屋。
Chopsticks could only be heard when the food was served. They ate it hurriedly and went back to their rooms.
偶尔，李自强从娟子的门口游荡到女儿的门口，也没有一个人跟他说一句多余的话。
Occasionally, Li Zhiqiang wandered from the door of a Juanzi to the door of his daughter, and no one said any superfluous words to him.
女儿出来上卫生间看见他，竟然像大白天见到鬼一样，半开玩笑半认真地对他说：“哎呀，爸，你在家呀？我还以为你没在家呢，这给我吓了一大跳。
When my daughter came out to see him in the bathroom, she saw him like a ghost in broad daylight and said to him half-jokingly and half-seriously, "Oh, Dad, you are at home.
”女儿说完就嘻嘻笑着走开了，娟子瞧见李自强的脸色颇为难看。
"My daughter, smiling, walked away, looking at Li Zi-qiang with a rather ugly face.
不过心里也不同情，这些年，他的确已经是这个家的“局外人”了。
However, the heart is not sympathetic, over the years, he has indeed been the "outsider" of the family.
第二天，李自强不让娟子和女儿再下楼，说疫情加重，吃的用的都由他来采买好了。
The next day, Li Ziqiang did not want to let his daughter go downstairs again. He said that the epidemic situation had increased, and all the food he used was picked up by him.
娟子也没推辞，生活费、伙食费，她和李自强都一一均摊。
Juanzi also did not refuse, living expenses, food expenses, she and Li Zhiqiang are all equally divided.
涉及到私人用品，娟子便给李自强转红包，托他代买。
Involved in personal items, Juanzi gave Li Zhiqiang turn red package, entrusted him to buy on his behalf.
1月28日，李自强回家后说，小区实行门禁管理了，门口除有社区值班人员外，还有一辆警车24小时停在不远处严阵以待。
On January 28, Li Zhiqiang home, said that the implementation of the small residential area, in addition to the community watch at the door, there is a police car around the clock stood ready.
眼看已经初四，可这架势愈演愈烈，娟子有点儿懵。
Looking has already four days, but this kind of situation grows stronger, Kaizi a little Meng.
她问前同事初八是否能如期开工，对方说，公司已经下达通知，初八不能返工，但可以线上办公。
She asked former colleagues whether the eighth day can start as scheduled, the other side said that the company has been informed that the eighth day can not rework, but can work online.
女儿的班主任也在班级群发来消息：接沈阳市教委通知，所有学生不得返校与参加任何形式的线下补课班。
The head teacher of her daughter also sent messages to the class: All students must not go back to school to attend any form of offline remedial classes.
娟子正像其他家长们一样回复“收到”时，张烨也发来了微信，说自己的公司已经接到通知暂不能复工，一部分外地员工也返不回来，“至于原本打算开的新媒体公司就更只能无限期地往后放了”。
Juanzi as other parents reply "received," Zhang Ye also sent a message, saying that his company has been informed temporarily can not resume work, some non-local workers can not return, "as the original intended new media company can only be put back indefinitely."
娟子心里一沉，但也只好说：“形势所迫，这是谁都想不到的事儿，没办法。
Juanzi mind a heavy, but also had to say: "the situation forced, this is no one can think of things, there is no way.
”顺便问张烨，这段时间员工的工资会不会照常发。
By the way, Zhang Ye, this period of employees will not be paid as usual.
“当然照发啊！能怎么办？”张烨说，“政府有令，疫情期间必须照发工资。
"Of course hair! Can do?" Zhang Ye said, "The government has a decree, the epidemic period must be paid."
不瞒你说，我每个月光工资支出就是230多万，想想都头疼。
As a matter of fact, I spend more than 2.3 million yuan on each moonlight salary, which gives me a headache.
”放下手机，娟子彻底坐不住了，焦虑油然而生——别的都好说，房贷她是死也不敢拖的。
Gracefully sitting down with her mobile phone, I felt anxious, and I could say that she was afraid to put off the mortgage.
她与李自强自离婚之日起，已经实行经济独立。
She and Li have been financially independent since the divorce.
为买房，她几乎倾其所有，只留下3000多元的流动资金。
She gave almost everything she had to buy a house, leaving only over $3,000 in working capital.
如果3月份沈阳不能复工，张烨资金周转不灵，不想再搞新媒体公司了，她可怎么办？晚上，娟子在床上辗转反侧。
If Shenyang can't resume work in March, Zhang Ye's capital turnover is not good, she doesn't want to do new media company any more, how can she do?
她想不开，觉得命运对她着实不公。
She could not help feeling that fate had wronged her.
她觉得自己该是个值得命运眷顾的人——在家里，她排行老小，生在农村，也谈不上什么娇生惯养；上学时她勤奋努力，大学毕业以后结婚、成家、干工作、教育子女，她都全力以赴——就拿去年来说，她多么拼命，身为一个媒体策划人员，别人侍候不了的客户她接着，别人一加班就谈条件，她无条件顶上，别人不愿意再改的策划案，她通宵达旦地改。
She felt that she was a worthy destiny, small and old, born in the country, and far from pampered; and she had worked hard at school to get married, start a family, work, and educate her children.In the past year, for example, she worked so hard to be a media planner and nobody could wait on her.
有好几次上班，她坐公交车都坐过了站。
On several occasions, she took the bus and passed the station.
她这么拼，不就是为了能尽快脱离开这种“离婚不离家”的尴尬局面吗，不就是不让自己前夫和前婆婆瞧不起、想为自己争一口气吗？想到这儿，娟子翻了一个身，恰好听到隔壁房间里传来李自强轻微的呼噜声。
In order to get rid of the embarrassing situation of "divorce without leaving home" as soon as possible, does she not let her ex-husband and mother-in-law look down on her and want to make a sigh for herself? Juanzi turned over here, just in time to hear Li Ziqiang purring slightly from the next room.
娟子跟李自强当年是自由恋爱。
Juanzi and Li Zhiqiang were in free love at that time.
那时人们还有很严重的城乡观念，娟子是农村户口，李自强是地道的沈阳人。
At that time, people still have a very serious urban and rural concept, Juanzi is rural household registration, Li Zhiqiang is authentic Shenyang people.
李自强的父母害怕娟子是为了跳出农门、想要那一纸城市户口才跟他儿子好的，所以坚决不同意他们在一起。
Li Zhiqiang's parents are afraid of Kaizi in order to get out of the door of the farm and want the city hukou to be good with his son, so they strongly disagree with them.
李自强最后就把户口本偷出来，跟娟子去登了记。
Li Zhiqiang finally stole the household registration book and made a record with Juanzi.
结婚头一年，两人如胶似漆。
In their first year of marriage, they were like paint.
可李自强的父母三天两天上门来闹，还大骂娟子是在骗婚。
Li Zhiqiang's parents came to see me for three days and two days, but also scolded him as cheating marriage.
娟子个性要强，又年轻沉不住气，坚决不向公公婆婆低头；而李自强除了在偷户口本时跟自己的父母硬气了一回，往后但凡涉及到婆媳矛盾，就唯唯诺诺，有几次还旗帜鲜明地倒戈站在了自己父母那一边。
Juanzi strong personality, and young calm, determined not to bow down to his mother-in-law; and Li Zhiqiang, in addition to stealing a household book with his parents once, but later, whenever the conflict between his mother-in-law is involved, he only agreed to give up and sided with his parents in some cases.
李自强对娟子说：“我们做儿女的，让一让老人家怎么了？一家人还非要分个青红皂白、像上公堂一样弄出个是非对错来吗？身为儿媳对公婆说点儿软和话又能怎样？”娟子却认为自己并没有错，她在沈阳城里除一个二姐外四顾无亲，李自强作为她最亲的人，却不能护她周全，这让她对李自强甚至对他们感情本身都倍感失望。
Gracious Li said to Juanzi, "If we do children, let the old people do something wrong, can the family still make a mistake like taking part in a fair trial?" Juanzi thinks she is not wrong, but she looks after nothing but a second sister in Shenyang City.
更令娟子寒心的是，后来女儿出生才两天，极度虚弱的她从护士的小声议论中听到，公婆居然瞒着她给李自强和女儿做了亲子鉴定，说“农村人为了城市户口什么都做得出来”。
Gracefully, two days after her daughter was born, she was so weak that she heard it in the whispers of the nurse. Her mother-in-law made a paternity test for Li Zhiqiang and his daughter without telling her, saying "the rural people can do anything for the city household registration."
她躺在病床上，气得浑身直哆嗦，等病房没人时质问李自强。
She lay on the bed, shivering with anger, waiting for no one in the ward to question Li Ziqiang.
李自强先是一愣，旋即安慰她说，他之所以配合父母，是为了想息事宁人，“老头老太太非要那么做，不做就跟我吵”。
Li Zhiqiang first Leng, soon consoled her that he was cooperating with his parents in order to avoid trouble, "old man and old woman must do that, do not do it with me quarrel."
娟子心里冷成一坨，对李自强挖苦了一句：“你不应该找媳妇儿结婚，你应该跟你爸你妈过一辈子，实在不行你就跟你妹结婚吧，这样肥水不流外人田，省得你们祸害别人，更省得你们一天到晚疑神疑鬼，总是担心被别人骗！”这句诛心的话让李自强脸上煞白，大骂娟子说的“不是人话”。
Juanzi heart into a piece of cold, Li Zi-qiang sarcastically said: "You should not marry your father and your mother for life, it is impossible for you to marry your sister, so that you won't harm others and save you from worrying about being cheated by others.
娟子的嘴也不饶人：“你们一家人干的就不是人事，我真是瞎了眼才会嫁给你。
Juanzi's mouth did not forgive: "You family did not do a personnel, I really blind to marry you.
”李自强也口无遮拦：“没有人逼你嫁给我。
"No one forced you to marry me.
如果你愿意离开，你现在离开也没人拦着你。
If you want to leave, no one will stop you if you leave now.
”这事儿让两人都心生嫌隙，女儿的到来非但没让他们的关系变得更融洽，反而还因为多出的琐事，让吵架拌嘴成了家常便饭。
"It was a bitter experience for both of them, and instead of making their relationship more harmonious, their daughters came to quarrel.
李自强的父母一得知儿子儿媳吵架，便跟着参与，时常数落儿子不该不顾他们的阻拦仓促结婚：“这下家无宁日，这种婚姻还维持来干什么呢？”在这一地鸡毛里，或许李自强也对当初的选择产生了怀疑，越发跟娟子针尖对麦芒，一句不让。
When Li Zhiqiang's parents learned of the quarrel between their son and daughter-in-law, they took part in it, and often scolded their son for rushing into marriage in spite of their wishes.
转眼间，女儿已经4岁了。
In a twinkling, my daughter was 4 years old.
一天娟子要求女儿复习一下早教课上的英语单词，女儿撅起小嘴说“不要妈妈管”。
Gracefully one day, I asked my daughter to review the English words in the morning lesson. My daughter pouted and said, "Don't let my mother take care of me."
娟子就问：“为什么不要妈妈管啊？”女儿童言无忌，奶声奶气地说：“爷爷说了，我、爷爷、爸爸都姓李，我们才是一家人。
Juanzi asked, "Why don't you let your mother take care of you?" The daughter said nicely that she was not afraid. "Grandpa said," My grandpa and grandpa are all surnamed Li, we are one family.
你是外姓人，跟我们不是一家人，爷爷告诉我，用不着听妈妈的。
You're a stranger, not a family, Grandpa told me, you don't have to listen to your mother.
”娟子自然是怒不可遏，当即就给还在上班的李自强打电话，让他马上回家。
Gracefully angry, I immediately called Li Zhiqiang, who was still at work, and told him to go home at once.
李自强请了假回来，听到妻子歇斯底里的质问，只是抱着头一言不发。
Li Ziqiang took leave to return, heard his wife hysterical questions, just holding his head said nothing.
娟子见丈夫不肯出头，作为反击，她就开始不让公婆看孩子。
Juanzi saw that her husband would not stand up, and as a counterattack, she began to prevent her in-laws from looking after the children.
公婆也不是省油的灯，三天两头地便上他们家来闹。
My mother-in-law is not a fuel-efficient lamp.
李自强不胜其烦，索性申请了一个本来不应该是他的“外调”，一走就是3年。
Li Zhiqiang tired, simply applied for a should not be his "external transfer," a walk is three years.
这期间，带孩子、家里的大小事都是娟子独自料理。
During this period, I take care of my children and my family, just looking after my family.
一开始，夫妻俩还时不时在电话里爆发战争，空间上的距离更加速了两人感情的消磨，最后他们连吵架也没力气了。
At first, the couple fought wars on the phone from time to time. The distance between them accelerated their relationship. Finally, they had no energy to quarrel.
等到2008年李自强从外地调回沈阳，娟子母女见到他没有欣喜，李自强见到妻女，也有生疏之感。
When Li Zhiqiang transferred back to Shenyang in 2008, Juanzi mother and daughter did not feel happy to see him, Li Zhiqiang saw his wife and daughter.
李自强便更不爱回家了，说怕影响娟子的休息，直接搬到空房间去住，成了网上说的相安无事的“白天好夫妻，夜晚好邻居”。
Li Zhiqiang even more do not love to go home, for fear of affecting the rest, directly moved to an empty room to live, has become a peaceful online said "good husband and wife, good neighbors at night.
2011年，李自强的父亲去世，娟子没有出席葬礼。
In 2011, Li Zhiqiang's father died, Juanzi, who did not attend the funeral.
这让两人的关系降到了冰点。
This brought the relationship to a freezing point.
7年后，娟子的母亲脑瘤手术，李自强也像隐身人一样没出现在丈母娘的病房里。
7 years later, Juanzi's mother-in-law had surgery for a brain tumor, and Li Zhiqiang did not appear in her mother-in-law's ward like an invisible person.
2019年初两个人协议离婚，和平分手。
In early 2019 the two agreed to divorce and split peacefully.
离婚以后，娟子最大的愿望就是女儿参加完高考之后两个人各奔东西，老死不相往来。
Juanzi's biggest wish after divorce is that two people go to different places after taking college entrance examination.
这个所谓的家，她是一分钟也不想多待。
This so-called home, she did not want to stay a minute longer.
想到过往，娟子的心又久久不能平静。
Gracefully remembering the past, I can not calm my heart for a long time.
眼下这场疫情来势汹汹，看起来一时半会儿是不会过去的。
The current outbreak is so aggressive that it looks as if it will not pass in a moment.
不能复工就意味着没有收入，这么一想，娟子更加烦躁，隔壁的呼噜声显得愈发令人生厌了。
Being unable to get back to work means I have no income, so I feel more anxious, and the grunt next door seems more boring.
一宿没睡好，娟子就生了病，嗓子疼、头疼。
Gracefully sleeping all night, I was ill and had a sore throat and a headache.
她知道自己上了火，又担心是染了肺炎，吃完感冒药，还拿出口罩戴着，要求女儿跟她居家隔离。
She knew she was on fire, was afraid of pneumonia, took cold medicine, took out her mask and asked her daughter to be separated from her family.
女儿扯下娟子的口罩：“妈，你就是普通感冒。
My daughter, Gracefully removing her mask, said, "Mom, you are just a common cold.
如果你现在真的感染上了冠状病毒，那么我现在肯定是被传染者。
If you do have a coronavirus now, I am definitely an infected person.
我认真研究了下你的出行轨迹，你不在辐射范围内，别自己吓自己啊。
I carefully studied your travel trajectory, you are not in the radiation range, do not scare yourself ah.
”女儿这一番话让娟子卸下不少负担，旁边的李自强也附和了几句，让娟子别担心。
My daughter, Juanzi, was relieved of a lot of burden, and Li Zhiqiang, who was beside me, made a few remarks to make me worry.
然后，这天做饭、洗碗，他都默默做了。
Then, this day cooking, washing dishes, he did it in silence.
那天晚上娟子睡得还好，第二天醒来，李自强已经把早饭做好，吃完，他就去银行值班了。
Gracefully sleeping that night, I woke up the next day, Li Zhiqiang had made breakfast, finished eating, he went to the bank on duty.
娟子让女儿找来家里的真空拔罐器给她拔罐，女儿说，从后脖梗一直到腰以上，所有拔过的地方都又黑又红，“妈，你咋上这么大的火？”娟子心想：我能不上火吗？好在，火罐没有辜负娟子对它的信赖，隔天，她便觉得自己好多了。
Juanzi asked her daughter to find a home vacuum extractor to pull the jug for her, she said, from the back of the neck to the waist and above, all the places plucked were black and red.
娟子病好起来这几天，主动多做了些家务，弥补之前两天自己应该做的。
Gracefully ill, I have done more housework, make up for what I should have done two days ago.
往后这些天，李自强颇为殷勤，做饭、洗碗都很积极。
These days, Li Zhiqiang quite attentively, cooking, washing dishes are very active.
在一起吃饭的时候，偶尔还故意说些俏皮话，惹得女儿也跟着笑。
While eating together, I occasionally make witty remarks that make my daughter laugh too.
不过，娟子还是始终抱着对一个“邻居”的态度，不冷不热。
However, I still cling to a "neighbor" attitude, lukewarm and lukewarm.
她不想跟这个已经在感情和法律上跟自己没什么关系的男人再有任何瓜葛。
She did not want to have anything to do with a man who had nothing to do with himself emotionally or legally.
这段时间，娟子不止一次发现李自强偷偷地看她，有好几次还欲言又止。
This time, Juanzi more than once found Li Zhiqiang secretly looking at her, there are several times also want to say and stop.
尤其是她生病那几天，女儿过来找她，李自强都不让，“让你妈妈好好休息，有啥事儿你找我”。
Especially when she was ill for a few days, her daughter came to her, Li Zi-qiang did not let, "let your mother have a good rest, what you want me.
可娟子不愿意正面回应李自强所做的一切。
But Juanzi is unwilling to respond positively to everything Li Zhiqiang has done.
元宵节前一天是休息日，整个上午娟子和女儿都在各忙各的。
The day before the Lantern Festival was a day off, Juanzi and my daughter were busy all morning.
不用去单位的李自强，也敞着门，听动静，是在刷抖音、看新闻。
Do not go to the unit Li Ziqiang, also open the door, listen to the movement, is in the brush shake, read the news.
平日午饭后，娟子会带着女儿放松1个小时，有时是午睡，有时看看电视、打两把扑克。
Gracefully taking my daughter to relax for an hour after lunch on weekdays, I sometimes take a nap, sometimes watch TV and play two poker games.
这天，娟子去厨房收拾完碗筷，就和女儿在自己卧室里打起扑克来。
On that day, Juanzi went to the kitchen to clean up the dishes, and I played poker with my daughter in my bedroom.
李自强推门走了进来，娟子和女儿不约而同地朝门口看了过去——他突兀的出现，让娟子觉得颇为尴尬——离婚后，他俩基本没踏入过对方的房门。
Gracefully, Li Zhiqiang pushed the door in, and Juanzi and his daughter, Juanzi, looking over to the door, felt embarrassed by his sudden appearance; after the divorce, they had hardly stepped into each other's door.
李自强同样一副窘态，不过，还是硬着头皮拖着缓慢的步子走到床前，低下头，明知故问：“你们在干啥呢？”“斗地主啊，爸。
Li Zhiqiang was in the same quandary, but he walked slowly to the bed, bowed his head and asked, "What are you doing?"
”女儿边回答边催促娟子，“妈，我三带一，你要不要？”“要。
Gracefully responding, my daughter urged, "Mom, do you want me to take one with me?
”娟子说，然后出牌。
Juanzi said, and I made a card.
“姑娘，你都高三了，怎么还玩这个？马上就要高考了。
"Girls, you are senior three, how still play this? The college entrance exam is coming soon.
”李自强不由面露焦虑。
Li Zhiqiang could not help showing anxiety.
女儿刚才赢了娟子一把，正在兴头上，听她爸这么一说，小嘴就噘了起来，有点儿不乐意。
My daughter, who had just won a Juanzi, was in a mood to listen to her father say so, and her mouth puckered up a little.
“就中午，我们也不是每天中午都玩儿，玩儿也就玩3把，其余时间她都在学习。
"Just at noon, we don't play around at noon, and we play three, and she studies the rest of the time.
”娟子拿着牌打圆场。
Gracefully holding a card, I played a round field.
李自强看了看她，顿了顿，明显又想没话找话：“孩子成绩一般都是你惯的，都这时候了，你还带她玩扑克，那成绩能好吗？”虽然他语气和缓，但娟子听了这话，不由得心头火起，把扑克扔下，直接就怼了回去：“您也知道是‘这时候’了啊？这时候您才想起来管？成绩一般也就一般，很难起死回生喽，之前打地基时您干嘛去了？”李自强听娟子这么一说，立即灭了声儿。
Li Zi-qiang looked at her, paused for a moment, obviously wondering if he could find something to say: "You are used to children's grades, but it's time for you to take her to poker."
娟子也不愿当着孩子面吵架，于是收起扑克，对女儿说：“反正到第三把了，你去学习吧。
Juanzi did not want to quarrel in front of the child, so I put away the poker and said to my daughter, "It's the third one anyway, you can study.
”女儿扫兴地转身出了房门，李自强则嗫嚅着，似乎还想再跟娟子说些什么，呆呆地立了半晌。
My daughter turned disappointedly out of the door, and Li Zi-qiang was babbling confusedly, seeming to say something to him again, just waiting for a long time.
娟子抬起头，看着他：“还有事儿吗？”李自强笑笑，说“没事儿没事儿”，就走了出去。
Juanzi looked up and looked at him: "Is there anything else?" Li Zhiqiang smiled and said "nothing is wrong" and went out.
午后的门口已经没有阳光，他的背影显得多少有些落寞。
There was no sunshine in the afternoon doorway, and his back was a little lonely.
这天晚饭，李自强又做了一顿大餐。
That night, Li Zhiqiang cooked another big meal.
娟子一看，还都是自己往常爱吃的菜。
Juanzi look, but also their usual favorite food.
娟子心想，要是没这场疫情，这年夏天一过，她和李自强真的就是陌生人了，此生可能都不会再这样好好吃顿饭了吧，想着想着，也难免唏嘘。
Juanzi thought that if the epidemic situation had not happened, she and Li Zhiqiang would have been strangers indeed, and they would not have had such a good meal in their lives.
晚饭后，娟子起身收拾碗筷。
Gracefully rising after supper, I clean up the dishes.
李自强一直在厨房门口徘徊，她便当没看见他，继续忙活着，一言不发。
Li Ziqiang has been wandering in the kitchen door, she did not see him, continue to busy, silent.
元宵节那天早上7点多，娟子刚起来穿着睡衣出了房间，就看见李自强正在把手里大大小小的袋子放到地上——他一大早就出去买了汤圆和菜回来，还买了草莓、橙子、苹果和芒果。
On the morning of the Lantern Festival, Juanzi just got up and went out of the room in his pajamas. He saw Li Ziqiang putting large and small bags on the ground - he went out early in the morning to buy soup and vegetables, and bought strawberries, oranges, apples and mangoes.
看见娟子，李自强说：“你快进去，门还开着，外面冷。
Seeing Juanzi, Li Zhiqiang said, "You must go in quickly. The door is still open, it is cold outside.
”“家里还有水果，吃不完要烂，怎么不等吃完再买？”“你从前不是爱吃苹果吗？这苹果是好苹果，12块钱一斤，凉甜凉甜的，一会儿你吃一个。
"There's fruit in the house, and you can't eat it all before you buy it?" "Didn't you love apples before you ate them?
”娟子应承了一声，想，如果倒退十年李自强能对她这样说话，他们哪至于走到今天？现在听到这话，没有一丝感动，反而有些尴尬。
Juanzi answered, thinking that if Li Zhiqiang could speak to her like this ten years back, how could they have come to this day?
“这是一周的菜吗？一共多少钱？”娟子不想让李自强觉得自己占了他的便宜，这也是跟这个几乎耽误了她一辈子的男人离婚后应该有的姿态和尊严——哪怕现在她已经捉襟见肘。
"Is this a week's dish? How much is it altogether?" Juanzi didn't want Li Zigong to feel that he had taken advantage of him, which is the attitude and dignity that a man who had almost delayed her whole life should have after divorce - even if she is already short of money.
李自强埋头在那堆菜和水果里分门别类，头也没抬地说“一共158块2”，娟子回身就用手机给李自强转了79块1。
Li Zhiqiang buried his head in the pile of vegetables and fruits and said, "158 yuan 2 in all," Juanzi turned back and turned 79 yuan to Li Zigang on his mobile phone.
这天女儿要在娟子房间里上早课，李自强时不时就进来一趟，一会儿给娘俩洗水果，一会儿又问娘俩想吃什么，他给做。
On this day, my daughter was going to have morning classes in a delicate room. Li Ziqiang would come in once in a while, wash fruit for her and then ask her what they wanted to eat.
直到后来女儿掐点去听网课，他才消停下来。
It wasn't until his daughter nipped in to take some lessons that he stopped.
看到李自强的殷勤，娟子想起此前女儿阑尾炎住院，自己晚上一个人护理时，李自强不但不知道给她送早餐，替换一下自己，竟然连手机都关机。
Seeing Li Zhiqiang's attentions, Juanzi remembered that his daughter was hospitalized with appendicitis, and I cared for her alone at night, Li Ziqiang not only didn't know to send her breakfast, but also changed himself, even his mobile phone turned off.
女儿初二时曾经相当叛逆，最高记录时，一周上5天学，有4天娟子都得去学校挨训。
My daughter was quite rebellious in her second year, and I had to go to school for 5 days a week and 4 days a week to get training.
娟子担心女儿学坏，可对女儿打骂、说教、谈心、哭，都无济于事。
Juanzi worried that her daughter was bad, but to her daughter scold, preach, talk heart, cry, all to no avail.
那段时间，娟子精神萎靡，有次失神脚下踩空闪了腰，疼得不能动了，还是邻居帮着把她扶回家里的。
At that time, Juanzi spirit was weak, I stepped on the hollow waist under the foot of a lost god, and the pain was too painful to move, but the neighbor helped to take her home.
在床上躺了3天才能下地，如果不是二姐来照顾，李自强甚至不知道娟子伤成这样。
Lying in bed for 3 days before I could go to the ground, Li Zhiqiang didn't even know that I was hurt like this.
娟子就是在无数个对丈夫的期待落空里，发现他们的婚姻其实早就名存实亡了的。
Juanzi is in the countless expectations of her husband disappointed, found that their marriage has long been a dead name.
那一张离婚证，它所能切割的不过是法律意义上两个人的婚姻关系而已。
The divorce certificate, it can only be cut in the legal sense of the relationship between the two.
现在的这份关切，是不是又来得迟了点？娟子不愿再继续回忆，便随意翻翻朋友圈。
Now this concern, is not a bit late again? Juanzi would not like to continue to recall, I turn over the circle of friends at will.
刷了几屏，发现有人在朋友圈里售卖蔬菜，一保温箱大约12到14斤半，里面各种蔬菜都有一点，售价比超市略高。
After brushing a few screens, I noticed that someone was selling vegetables in a friend's circle. A incubator was about 12 to 14 jacks.
她灵机一动，立即截图发给一个在连锁超市干采买的朋友，说自己也想在小区里卖蔬菜，问他能不能帮自己进货并进行前期分装，她则负责售卖，利润对半。
She had an idea and sent it to a friend at a supermarket chain who said she wanted to sell vegetables in the neighborhood. She asked him if he could get them and have them pre-packaged.
对方一看，旋即满口应承下来。
The other party looked and immediately filled his mouth.
娟子为自己发现这样的商机欣喜，遂连忙发朋友圈，拉小区业主进群。
Juanzi is glad to find such a business opportunity, I hasten to issue a circle of friends, pull small district owners into the group.
整个上午她都在屋里忙活着，连早饭都没吃，李自强过来敲门催过她几回，她都说不饿，等会儿再说。
She has been busy all morning in the house, not even eat breakfast, Li Ziqiang knocked on her door several times, she said not hungry, wait until later.
中午12点钟左右，小区里已经有30多家向她下单购菜。
Around 12 o'clock noon, the community has more than 30 orders to her to buy vegetables.
娟子粗略算了一下，刨去她给朋友的分成，这一上午她就能赚300多块，很是高兴。
Juanzi rough calculation, planing away her friends to share, this morning she can earn more than 300 yuan, very happy.
这时，李自强打开门，径直端着一只碗走了进来，娟子满脸疑问。
At this moment, Li Zhiqiang opened the door and walked directly into a bowl, looking puzzled.
李自强被娟子看得浑身不自在，指着碗里说：“趁热吃，汤圆，黑芝麻馅儿的，我记得你从前爱吃。
Gracefully looking out of place, Li Zi-qiang pointed to a bowl and said, "Take advantage of the hot food, the dumpling and the black sesame filling.
”娟子显然不适应李自强这转变，李自强估计也看出来了，赶紧自我解嘲：“我休息，实在是闲着没事。
Juanzi obviously did not adapt to Li Zhiqiang this transformation, Li Zhiqiang estimate also saw, hurriedly self-deprecation: "I rest, is really free.
汤圆做好了不吃就不能吃了，就给你端了进来。
Tangyuan cooked do not eat can not eat, and brought you in.
”娟子是在李自强的注目礼下把那碗汤圆吃完的。
Juanzi, in Li Zhiqiang's eyes, ate the bowl of soup balls.
她知道李自强最近有些异样，可眼下她无暇思考更多，吃完汤圆，还得继续忙活卖菜的事。
She knew that Li Zhiqiang had been different recently, but now she had no time to think more.
朋友已经把配好的菜送到了小区门口，娟子接了电话就去小区门口接菜，一共34箱，她让朋友把菜卸在门口，自己一个人戴着口罩挨家挨户送菜。
My friend had sent the food to the gate of the district, Juanzi answered the telephone and went to pick up the dishes in front of the small area.
有的邻居打趣说她这是为人民服务和挣钱两不误，娟子就隔着口罩对他们笑笑。
Some neighbors joked that she was serving the people and making money, but she smiled at them through a mask.
当娟子跑第二趟时，李自强也出来帮忙了。
Juanzi ran for the second time, Li Zhiqiang also came out to help.
他戴着一次性口罩，全副武装，对娟子说：“你告诉我地址，是谁家，我如果在家休息，就替你去送。
Gracefully armed and wearing a disposable mask, he said to me, "Tell me the address, whose house it is. If I rest at home, I will send it for you.
等我上班时那没有办法了，只能你一个人送了。
There's nothing I can do when I get to work. You're all alone.
”娟子本来还想推辞，但李自强已经不由分说地搬起两箱菜来走在前面了。
Juanzi would like to refuse, but Li Zhiqiang has involuntarily picked up two cases of vegetables to walk in front.
那几天沈阳下了一场大雪，小区里白茫茫一片，小区树枝上挂着厚厚一层雪绒。
Shenyang a few days of heavy snow, the community in a vast expanse of white, a thick layer of snow hanging on the branches.
娟子紧走几步才追了上去，心里第一次生出一丝暖意。
Juanzi walked a few steps before catching up, and a little warm feeling was born in my heart for the first time.
这天晚上，李自强主动做饭、洗碗，娟子回到自己屋准备着明日的送菜事务，顺便也翻翻闲书。
That evening, Li Ziqiang took the initiative to cook, wash dishes, Juanzi returned to his room to prepare the food service for tomorrow, and turned over the books.
晚上，李自强悄声走进来，问娟子：“你有事儿吗？”娟子有点疑惑，摇摇头，说：“没什么事儿啊。
In the evening, Li Zhiqiang came in quietly and asked, "Do you have something to do?" Juanzi shook his head and said, "It's all right.
”李自强说：“那咱俩唠会嗑。
Li Zhiqiang said, "Then you and I will both chew.
”娟子合上书，几乎脱口而出：“咱俩还有什么好唠的啊？”李自强脸上露出受伤的表情，但稍纵即逝：“我实在是无聊，哪儿也去不了，如果有地方去，我都不回家。
Juanzi, closing the book, almost blurted out, "What else would we have to say to you?" Li Zikang expressed his hurt face with a fleeting fleeting expression: "I am really bored and can't go anywhere.
”娟子笑笑：“这倒是实话。
"Juan Zi smiled:" That's the truth.
”李自强叹了一口气，坐在一旁的椅子上，便开始长篇大论：“从前总觉得你唠叨，让我陪你，我就觉得你特烦。
"Li Ziqiang sighed, sat on the side of the chair, and began a long speech:" I used to think you nagging, let me accompany you, I think you are particularly annoying.
我从没站在你的立场上考虑过问题，整天瞎忙，天天在外跟人家吹牛X、侃大山，也不觉时间难熬，现在才理解你一个人在家里带孩子的寂寞和苦。
I have never considered a problem in your position. I have been busy all day, boasting and haggling about time outside all day, and now I understand the loneliness and pain of bringing up children alone at home.
”娟子看着对面这个1米8的男人——他的确是不知道那些艰难时岁，不到1米6的自己带着女儿到处看病的辛苦——她没有接话。
Juanzi, looking across the table at the man in 1 / 8, really didn't know the hard work of those hard-up years, who were less than 6 meters old and had their daughter everywhere, she didn't answer the telephone.
“我这之前刷视频，看到一个坐轮椅的老头儿，他老伴儿也不理他，任他一个人坐着，我开始觉得是那老太太不称职，现在想想，百因自有果啊！如果一个男人长久在家庭关系里缺位，等到他老了、没地方可去了，再想回归家庭，再想享天伦之乐，已经不可能了。
When I saw an old man in a wheelchair, and his wife ignored him and left him alone, I began to think that the old lady was unfit for her job. Now think about it, if a man is absent from a family relationship for a long time, when he is old and has no place to go, he wants to return to his family and enjoy his family again.
家是两个人的，不应该由一个人来付出和经营。
Home is for two and should not be paid for and run by one person.
”娟子抬起头来看着李自强，他又说：“你今年40多岁了，我昨晚看你忙活，才发现你都有白头发了。
Juanzi looked up at Li Zhiqiang, and he said, "You are over 40 years old.
唉，都是为了这个家，为孩子，操心操得吧。
Well, it's all for the family, for the children, to worry about.
”这话说得娟子心里一阵泛酸，眼眶也不由得湿了。
Gracefully saying that, I felt a pang in my heart, and I felt my eyes wet.
李自强声音也有点儿哽咽：“我总以为，自己上个班，还有编制，比上不足，比下有余。
Li Ziqiang voice also a bit choked: "I always thought that his last class, and the establishment, more than inadequate.
只要往家里拿钱，便算是个好老公了。
As long as the money to get home, is a good husband.
也总觉得你在婚姻里贪得无厌，婆媳关系也处不好。
Also always feel that you are insatiable in marriage, mother-in-law relationship is not good.
现在想想，是我太不理解你了。
Now think about it. I don't understand you.
我还让你独守空房这么多年，跟你离婚还毫无忏悔之意，其实，是我耽误了你一辈子，是我对不起你。
I also let you keep empty room for so many years, and divorce you without any remorse, in fact, I delayed you for a lifetime, I am sorry for you.
”李自强这番话让娟子有些无所适从，不知道该说什么。
Gracefully, Li Zhiqiang's words made me feel a little confused, and I didn't know what to say.
按理说，这些话，娟子盼了多少年——哪个女人嫁了人以后不想跟丈夫白头偕老呢？娟子眼睛瞥向一侧，抹了抹眼泪，也想起自己以前那些冲动的行为。
Gracefully, I have been looking forward to these words for many years.When a woman married, I did not want to get old with her husband, but I glanced to one side, wiping my tears and remembering my former impulsive behavior.
“疫情前，我还没有这种想法。
"Before the outbreak, I didn't have that idea.
这几天在家里，你和闺女都不怎么理我，好像我是这个家的局外人。
At home these days, you and your daughter don't talk to me much, as if I were an outsider to the family.
我这才明白，我丢了家，丢了媳妇儿，丢了孩子。
Then I realized that I had lost my home, my daughter-in-law, my child.
你说，有多少家庭，因为疫情妻离子散，像我这样老婆孩子都在身边，怎么就不懂珍惜呢？”娟子张了张嘴，本来想回应些什么，但又觉得自己几乎半世青春都耗费在一个冰冷的家、一个并不值得托付的男人身上，这几句道歉的话相对她承受的那些辛酸来说，实在是不值一提。
Gracefully opening my mouth, I want to answer for something, but I feel that I have spent almost half my youth in a cold home and a man who is not worth entrusting. These words of apology are nothing compared with the bitterness she has endured.
再说，这番话也说得太晚了，他们毕竟已经离婚了，哪个女人离婚不是因为攒够了失望呢？娟子不想再走回头路。
Moreover, it was too late to say, after all, they were divorced, and which woman, not because she had saved up enough disappointment, wanted to go back in time.
李自强看娟子不置可否，坐了一会儿便轻轻叹口气，起身走了，出门前，他让娟子别多想，早点睡。
Gracefully sitting for a little while, Li Zikang, sitting in a delicate position, stood up and went out, making him think much about it and go to bed early.
娟子哪儿能睡得着，她犹豫再三，还是给二姐打了个电话，把刚才李自强的那些话一股脑都说给二姐听。
Juanzi where can sleep, she hesitated again and again, or to the second sister made a phone call, Li Zhiqiang just said those words to the second sister.
二姐听了，只说：“想想他从前对你，真是不想你原谅他。
"The second sister listened and said," I don't want you to forgive him for the way he treated you.
但是人又都会犯错，就说我和你二姐夫吧，刚结婚那会儿也总打，你二姐夫还偷藏私房钱，可两口子过日子勺子总会碰着锅沿，没有十全十美的。
But people also make mistakes, I and your two brother-in-law, when the wedding also always hit, your two brother-in-law also stole money, but the couple's living spoon will always touch the pot, there is no perfect.
”二姐最后给娟子说，不管做哪一个决定，一定得慎重，“前提是你真觉得幸福”。
My second sister, Juanzi, said finally that no matter which decision to make, you must be careful, "if you really feel happy."
娟子不知道她和李自强的关系还能不能恢复到从前。
Juanzi did not know whether her relationship with Li Zhiqiang could be restored to the former.
她想着恋爱时，她恨不得时刻黏着他，而结婚后，又一步步走到现在。
When she was thinking of falling in love, she wanted to cling to him all the time, and after marriage, one step at a time to the present.
人们都说包容，可谁又真能做到被别人伤害了以后不计前嫌、彼此心里没一点儿嫌隙呢？次日，娟子二姐不太放心，又给李自强打了个电话。
The following day, Juanzi, a girl in a delicate position, made a phone call to Li Zikang, a girl in a position of great anxiety, for she felt very uneasy about being hurt by others.
没想到李自强在电话里，一直说自己“对不起娟子，这些年苦了她……”“二姐，我想跟娟子复婚。
I didn't expect Li Zhiqiang to say all the time on the phone, I'm sorry, I am sorry, but I have been suffering from her years.
结婚时我们都太年轻了，不懂咋相处，更不懂咋处理冲突和矛盾。
When we got married, we were too young to understand how to get along, much less how to deal with conflicts and contradictions.
一涉及到婆媳问题，我就爱当逃兵，更不愿意听女人唠叨。
When it comes to my wife-in-law, I love to be a deserter and hate to listen to women nagging.
现在她倒是不唠叨我了，连话都不跟我说了。
Now she doesn't nag me, she won't even talk to me.
我这日子过得，一点滋味儿都没有。
I haven't had a tinge of fun these days.
而且，因为这疫情，我才在家几天，就忙得够呛。
And, because of the outbreak, I stayed home for a few days and was very busy.
想着娟子往日自己一个人带孩子，一个人撑着这个家，我就觉得自个儿挺混蛋的。
Juanzi used to take care of my child alone, supporting the family by myself, I felt that I was a bastard.
我就是一个普通人，也不可能再建啥大功立啥大业，最美的事儿不就应该是老婆、孩子、热炕头吗？你说我咋就才想明白这回事儿呢！”他还托二姐给娟子带句话：“日子是我给过散的，往后余生，我最大的人生目标就是再把这散碎的日子给过完整了。
I am an ordinary person, and I can't build any great achievements. The most beautiful thing is not the wife, children, warm Kang Tou? You say I just want to understand this! He also asked his elder sister to take a message to Juanzi, I have scattered my life for the rest of my life.
”二姐说也不清楚娟子的态度。
Juanzi, the elder sister, did not know her attitude.
李自强说：“我能等，也应该等。
"I can and should wait," Li said.
”娟子听了二姐的转述，沉默了好半天。
Gracefully listening to the second sister's retelling, I was silent for a long time.
婚姻里，女人最见不得的就是好。
In marriage, the best that a woman can't see is good.
李自强这番表忠心，竟让娟子觉得自己没那么怨恨他了。
Li Zhiqiang, a gentleman who was loyal, made me feel that I didn't hate him so much.
不过，她觉得在此刻说原谅或者谈复婚，都为时尚早。
She felt, however, that it was too early at the moment to say "forgive" or "remarry."
她决定暂时放下这些纠结，先专心把送菜的业务做起来再说。
She decided to let go of her entanglements for a while and concentrate on the food delivery business.
不管怎么样，以后的路还长着呢，自己的路先要自己走好，自己要争气，至于跟李自强还有没有缘分再续前缘，就留给以后吧。
In any case, the road ahead is still long, their own road to go well, their own gas, as with Lee Zhiqiang there is no fate to renew the future, let it be left.
送菜上门的业务才做了一个星期，娟子就做不下去了。
I have been doing food door-to-door for only a week, but I can't go on doing it.
2月14日情人节，社区的工作人员来得很早，他们敲门时娟子刚刚起床，李自强正在刷牙，女儿正在自己的房间里背英语单词。
On February 14, Valentine's Day, the community workers came very early. They knocked at the door, Juanzi just got up. Li Zhiqiang was brushing his teeth.
社区主任是个50多岁的女人，穿一件黑色的羽绒服，外面还套着一件透明的塑料雨衣，戴着一次性医用口罩。
The community director is a woman in her fifties, wearing a black down jacket, a transparent plastic raincoat and a disposable medical mask.
开门以后，他们也没进屋，就在门口直截了当地告诉娟子，希望她不要再继续在小区里送菜上门了，“现在不是挣钱的时候，政府倡议大家如无必要都在家老实地待着，万里还有个一呢，谁知道病毒会通过什么渠道来传染给大家啊？”娟子本想跟他们解释两句，但李自强却跑到她身后，替她向社区承诺，他们不再送菜了。
Gracefully telling her to stop delivering food in the neighborhood, I hope it is not the time to make money, but the government encourages everyone to stay at home and be honest without any need to make money.
娟子何尝不知晓社区工作人员说的道理，可一想到自己的房贷，又忍不住焦虑。
Juanzi do not know the reason said by the community workers, can think of their own mortgage, and can not help but worry.
她落落寡欢地转身进了屋，跟朋友结了账，又在买菜群里做了说明。
Unhappily, she turned into the house, settled accounts with her friends and explained them in the grocery store.
李自强又悄无声息地进了她的房间，把一张银行卡放在梳妆台上：“这是我的工资卡。
Without a sound, Li went into her room and put a bank card on the dresser. Here is my pay card.
其实我也不赞成你去给别人送菜，万一感染了病毒呢？这个病传染性极强，一家有一个人感染上了基本上就是‘团灭’，不管怎么样，咱一家大小都平安健康最重要，你和孩子对我来说最重要。
In fact, I do not agree with you to send food to other people, in case of infection with the virus? This disease is very infectious, a family infected with the basically is' regiment annihilation ', no matter what, our family size is safe and healthy, you and children are the most important to me.
”娟子有些愕然地看着李自强——这么多年来，每一次娟子最需要丈夫时，他都是缺位的。
Gracefully looking at Li Zi-qiang, Kying in a position, every time for many years, I needed my husband most.
她从来没想过这个男人会在自己和女儿遇到困难和凶险时挺身而出。
It never occurred to her that this man would step forward when he and his daughter were in trouble and danger.
这太让她意外了，她有些不知所措。
It was too much for her. She was a little overwhelmed.
李自强接着说：“网银的密码我一会儿给你微信发过去。
Li Zhiqiang went on to say: "The net silver password I will send you a message.
你用钱就从这里头取，另外你跟闺女的生活费也不用再和我均摊了，我管。
You take it from here with your money, And you and your daughter don't have to share it with me anymore, I care.
只要有我一天，你放心，我绝对不会让你们娘俩儿委屈着。
As long as I have a day, you can rest assured that I will never let you two wronged.
”娟子站起身来，想推辞，她不想在前夫面前卖惨，更不想被前夫同情。
Gracefully rising, Juanzi tried to refuse, but she did not want to sell miserably in front of her ex-husband.
可李自强却拦住了娟子的话头。
But Li Zi-qiang stopped a Juanzi's head.
“娟子，这么多年我从来没有好好审视过我们的婚姻，也从来没认真审视过你我。
Juanzi, in all these years, I have never taken a good look at our marriage, nor have I ever looked at you and me seriously.
两个人的婚姻出现了问题，一个巴掌拍不响，如果你有错，那么我也绝对不无辜。
Two people have marital problems, a clap of the palm, if you make a mistake, then I am not innocent.
这些日子整天都待在一起，我突然发现为这个家我做得实在是太少了。
Being together all day long, I suddenly realized how little I had done for the family.
不管我们离没离婚，还在不在一起，你是否原谅我，我都欠你的，都不止一句‘对不起’。
Whether we are divorced or not, whether or not you forgive me, I owe you, more than a 'sorry'.
”说完这番话，李自强还掉了眼泪，回身朝门口走去。
"With these words, Li Zhiqiang returned tears and turned toward the door.
这场疫情似乎让这个膀大腰圆的东北男人变得柔软了。
The epidemic seems to have softened the beefy northeast man.
娟子站在梳妆台前，看见安静躺在上面的银行卡，那些印在卡上的凸起的金色阿拉伯数字已经有些磨损了。
Gracefully standing in front of the dressing table, I saw the bank card lying quietly on it. The bulging gold numerals printed on the card had worn away a little.
娟子仰起头来，努力想控制住自己眼睛里的泪水。
Juanzi looked up and tried to control the tears in my eyes.
她原本以为自己这一辈子都不会原谅这个叫做李自强的男人。
She thought she would never forgive this man called Li Zhiqiang.
没想到一场瘟疫，让一个仿佛永远不会认错的人学会了说对不起，也让一个从来没有想过会原谅的人，开始认真思考要不要回答对方一句“没关系”。
Unexpectedly, a plague, let a person who never seem to admit wrong learned to say sorry, but also let a person who never thought of forgive, began to seriously consider whether to answer each other "Never mind.
那天晚上，李自强回来得有些晚，到家时，他抱了整整一摞巧克力。
That night, Li Ziqiang came home a little late. When he got home, he carried a whole pile of chocolates.
女儿不明所以，对着那些甜食大呼小叫。
Her daughter didn't know, so she yelled at the sweets.
李自强没说那些巧克力是送给娟子的情人节礼物，娟子也没问，她只让女儿去盛饭，让李自强去洗手，说赶紧洗手，喝口热水吃饭，要不然菜都该凉了。
Li Ziqiang did not say that the chocolate was a gift for Valentine's Day, Juanzi did not ask, but she only let her daughter go to fill the rice, let Li Zhiqiang wash his hands quickly and drink hot water to eat, otherwise the food would be cold.
女儿手舞足蹈：“我要先吃一块巧克力。
My daughter danced and said, "I want to eat a chocolate first.
”娟子不同意，说晚上不能吃甜食，对牙齿不好。
Juanzi disagreed, saying that he could not eat sweet food at night, which was not good for teeth.
忽然，她发现女儿最近变得更活泼了，也更爱说话了。
Suddenly she noticed that her daughter had recently become more vivacious and talkative.
这顿情人节的晚餐，温馨甜蜜，一家三口的影子被灯光拉得又斜又长。
This Valentine's Day dinner, warm and sweet, the shadow of a family of three people by the light of the oblique and long.
全中国仍旧沉浸在疫情未解的胶着里。
The whole of China is still stuck in the grip of the epidemic.
朋友圈有人说：乙亥末，庚子春，荆楚大疫，染数万户。
Friends circle someone said: the end of the Hai, Gengzi spring, Jingchu plague, drenched tens of thousands of households.
众惶恐，举国防，皆闭户……月余，愿疫尽去。
Panic fear, lift up national defence, are closed... more than a month, I wish the plague.
此后百年，国泰民安……“疫尽去！”娟子出声读道。
A hundred years later, GuoTai Min'an... "Blight gone!" Gracefully read out.
娟子希望疫情早日过去，她也希望自己心里的“疫”能尽去，往后余生，轻装上阵。
Juanzi hope that the epidemic will soon be over, she also hope that her heart "plague" can be eliminated, the rest of life, light on the battle.
编辑| 唐糖点击联系人间编辑帕 三 绝尝试看清自己，试图照亮他人的文字爱好者本文系网易新闻人间工作室独家约稿，并享有独家版权。
Tang Sugar has exclusive rights to contact the world's editor, Pa Sanjie, in an attempt to get a glimpse of himself and try to light up the lives of others.
如需转载请在后台回复【转载】。
If you need to reproduce, please reply in the background.
投稿给“人间-非虚构”写作平台，可致信：thelivings@vip.163.com，稿件一经刊用，将根据文章质量，提供千字500元-1000元的稿酬。
Written on a "human-non-fiction" writing platform, you can write to themings @ vip.163.com, which, once printed, will pay you between $500 and $1,000, depending on the quality of the article.
投稿文章需保证内容及全部内容信息（包括但不限于人物关系、事件经过、细节发展等所有元素）的真实性，保证作品不存在任何虚构内容。
The article should guarantee the authenticity of the content and information (including, but not limited to, all elements of relationships, events, details, etc.), and ensure that there is no fictional content in the work.
其它合作、建议、故事线索，欢迎于微信后台（或邮件）联系我们。
Other cooperation, suggestions, story clues, welcome to micro-mail backstage (or email) contact us.
文章由 网易新闻丨人间工作室出品点击以下「关键词」，查看往期内容：群聊魔鬼|月嫂回忆录|家暴|健身房的坑|生子丸考公|萌宠博主|82年的金智英|女大学生的毒虫男友大牛失业|卧底狱警|娶妻改命|中年男人的窝囊死亡职校老师|产科记事|改嫁|寻业中国|三大队|股市梦碎扶弟魔|末路狂花|下乡扶贫|外卖小哥|杀死我的女神吃不上药的人|黑在日本|再见警长丨穷人不配当公务员离休干部病房|控制狂父母|无征兆灭门案丨提款机女婿东北相亲|我放弃了科研|网红女同学|与巨婴离婚的女人。
The article is published by Netease News into the following "keywords" to view past issues: Goodbye, Chief Constable, and Poor People as a Civil Servant & # 144; Memoirs of a Sisters-in-Residence at the Gym Rest & # 144; China & # 144; & # 44;
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
离婚夫妻同处一室的隔离生活丨人间。
Divorced couples live in isolation into a room.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "文学";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "人间theLivings";。
var nickname = & quot; at least & quot; at least & quot;
var msg_title = "离婚夫妻同处一室的隔离生活丨人间";。
var msg _ title = & quot; divorced couples living in solitary living together;;
var msg_desc = "她希望自己心里的“疫”也能尽去，往后余生，轻装上阵。
var msg _ desc = & quot; she wishes she had had the plague at her heart and spent the rest of her life lightly.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '找到人间编辑的若干种方法',。
AT & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '群聊里的魔鬼，抓走了三个女童丨人间',。
The devil in the group conversation took three girls into service.
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '钱宝网已死，朋友说有事烧纸 | 人间',。
At the time of its death a friend says it has AT least & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '职场里的中年人：技术大牛失业了丨人间 · 寻业中国',。
Middle-aged at work: Technology Daniel is unemployed. China & amp; apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & #
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '我教的，全是上不了高中的职校生丨人间·寻业中国',。
What I taught was nothing but a vocational college student who couldn't attend high school.
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '请转告局长，三大队任务完成了丨人间',。
Please tell the director that the triad completed its service to & quot; & quot; & apos;.
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '爸，去工作吧，别再等牛市了丨人间',。
A: Dad, go to work. Don't wait for a bull market.
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '这一年下乡扶贫，我算是长见识了丨人间·再见8',。
I saw it for a long time when I went to the countryside to fight poverty.
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '吃不上药的人丨人间',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '一场毫无征兆的灭门之祸丨人间',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
var title ="人间theLivings";。
var title = & quot; at least & quot; at least & quot;
