封城后进武汉开救护车、生日前查出肿瘤：那个河北志愿者离开武汉了。
After the closure of the city into Wuhan to drive an ambulance, before the birthday to detect tumors: that Hebei volunteers left Wuhan.
郑宇钧。
Zheng Yujun.
偶尔治愈                      。
Occasionally cured.
偶尔治愈。
Occasionally cured.
记录人与疾病、衰老、死亡的相处方式。
Document how people relate to illness, old age and death.
。
.
武汉街头，在一群穿三级防护服的救护车司机中，乍一看分不出彼此，但他那一口唐山普通话一开腔，就知道是他——唐迪，大家都叫他「老唐」。
Wuhan street, among a group of ambulance drivers wearing third-class protective clothing, at first glance can not distinguish each other, but his mouth of Tangshan Mandarin, known as he - Dundee, everyone called him "old Tang.
1976 年，6 岁的老唐，在唐山大地震里死里逃生。
In 1976, six-year-old Tang Dynasty survived the Tangshan earthquake.
2008 年，38 岁的老唐，一个人去「 5·12 汶川地震」灾区，做了 20 天的志愿服务。
In 2008, 38-year-old Tang, a person went to the "May 12 Wenchuan earthquake" disaster areas, did 20 days of volunteer service.
2020 年，武汉「封城」后，50 岁的老唐只身一人，自驾车从唐山到武汉，开救护车、接送医护人员上下班、搬运物资，老唐最初许下的三个愿望，都实现了。
In 2020, after Wuhan was "closed to the outside world," the 50-year-old Tang Dynasty drove alone from Tangshan to Wuhan to drive ambulances, transport medical personnel to and from work and carry supplies.
在老唐到武汉后的第 21 天，他被安排去医院体检，拍 CT 后发现，老唐肺部长了个肿瘤，有病变。
After Lao Tang arrived in Wuhan on the 21st day, he was arranged to go to the hospital for a medical examination.
有人安慰老唐，好人有好报。
Some people comforted Tang, good people have a good return.
硚口区卫健局的蔡主任和他沟通，让他留在武汉治疗。
Zhoukou District Wei health bureau Tsai director and he communicate, let him stay in Wuhan for treatment.
老唐对「偶尔治愈」说，不愿意给武汉增加负担，他是来帮忙的，得这病跟武汉没关系，反而得感谢武汉给他查出来，怎么好意思在武汉治病、麻烦武汉呢？老唐执意要回家治病，他屡屡向武汉市防疫指挥部上书，向外界陈情。
"Old Tang told" occasional cure "that he did not want to add to Wuhan burden, he came to help, the disease is not related to Wuhan, but thanks to Wuhan to find out, how willing to treat diseases in Wuhan, trouble Wuhan?
限于武汉的「封城」管制，起初，他的请求未能获批。
Restricted to Wuhan's "closed city" control, at first, his request was not approved.
直到 3 月 16 日，他意外接到了湖北省防疫指挥部的通知，他获特批，拿到了离开武汉的通行证。
Until March 16, he received an unexpected notice from the Hubei Provincial Anti-epidemic Command, he was granted special permission to leave Wuhan.
直到离开武汉时，老唐还在瞒着家人——不管是病情还是在武汉。
By the time he left Wuhan, Tang was still keeping it secret from his family, whether it was his illness or Wuhan.
妻子老想跟老唐微信共享实时位置、视频通话他，他都不敢接，怕穿帮。
His wife always wanted to share the real-time location with old Tang Weixin, video calling him, he did not dare to answer, afraid to wear help.
老唐只能两头瞒，跟妻子说，他跟妈妈在一起；跟妈妈说，他跟妻子在一起。
Old Tang could only tell his wife that he was with his mother and that he was with her.
老丈人刚过世，家里两位老人身子不好。
Old father-in-law just passed away, two old family body bad.
3 月 17 日 17 时，还在武汉返回唐山路上的老唐对「偶尔治愈」说，他只有一个念想：早点回家，回到亲人身边。
At 1700 hours on March 17, old Tang, who was returning to Wuhan on the Tang Shan Road, told the "occasional cure" that he had only one thought: go home early and return to his family.
以下是老唐的自述：武汉需要我两次大地震的经历，让我明白生命的渺小与珍贵。
The following is old Tang's own account: Wuhan needs my experience of two major earthquakes, let me understand the smallness and value of life.
1 月 23 日，我一觉起来看到武汉「封城」的消息，同时，全市城市公交、地铁、轮渡暂停运营，市内交通全停了，这是城市的血管啊。
On January 23, I fell asleep and saw the news that Wuhan "closed the city." At the same time, the city's public transportation, subway, ferry suspended operation, the city's traffic all stopped, this is the city's blood vessels.
血管被掐断了，可医护人员上下班需要车，病人去医院需要车，物资转运也需要车。
Blood vessels were cut off, but staff needed cars to get to and from work, patients needed cars to get to hospitals, and vehicles were needed for transshipment.
各种各样的信息涌来，缺车、缺司机，还有志愿者在接送人时自己也感染了。
There was a flood of information about cars, drivers, and volunteers who picked up the drivers themselves.
这车，是救命的啊。
This car, it's life-saving.
不管要钱多还是少，那时候敢开车上武汉来运送物资的，都是英雄。
No matter how much money you ask or how little money you have, you will be a hero if you drive up to Wuhan to deliver goods.
很多企业跟武汉捐赠救护车，但救护车还得有人开是吧？加上得倒班，按两班倒算的话，那就得两倍于车辆数目的司机数量。
Many companies donate ambulances to Wuhan, but ambulances have to be manned, right? Add shift work, double the number of drivers.
救护车属于特种车辆，要求最低是 B 本的驾照。
Ambulances are special vehicles and require a minimum of B-books driving licence.
我没别的特长，就是很会开车，有 B1 本的驾照。
I don't have any specialties. I know how to drive. I have a B1 license.
我还有一辆 7 座的客货两用车，去武汉肯定能发挥作用。
I also have a 7-seater station wagon, which will definitely work in Wuhan.
那时候我也看到武汉招募志愿司机的通知，可打电话过去，组织者一看是外地的手机号，再问我不在武汉，就直接拒绝了。
At that time, I also saw Wuhan to recruit voluntary drivers, can call the past, organizer looked at the phone number of the outside world, and then asked me not in Wuhan, directly refused.
人家是按规矩来做，没毛病吧？咱不能给人添麻烦，但起码我知道武汉是真缺司机，只要到武汉了，我就有事做。
I can't cause any trouble, but at least I know Wuhan is a real driver, so long as I get to Wuhan, I have something to do.
可是，老丈人病重，作为女婿，我得尽责在床前伺候。
But, old father-in-law is very ill, as son-in-law, I have to do my duty in bed.
2 月 1 日，岳父病逝，非常时期，治丧从简。
Feb. 1, his father-in-law died of illness, unusual period, the mourning simple.
过了老丈人的「头七」，上完坟， 8 号那天，我出发了。
After the father-in-law's "seven," on the grave, on the 8th, I set out.
我跟老婆撒了一个善意的谎言，说我去妈妈家过元宵节。
I told my wife a white lie that I was going to my mother's house for the Lantern Festival.
家中两位老人都 80 多岁了，不能让她们担心，也不想遇到太多阻力，所以我对老人也选择了隐瞒。
Two elderly people in the family are in their 80s, can not let them worry, do not want to encounter too much resistance, so I also choose to hide the elderly.
因为疫情期间封村封镇，人员不能随意走动，这才帮我隐瞒了下来。
Because of the epidemic during the closure of the village, personnel can not move freely, which helped me hide down.
岳母、妻子和女儿，以为我回妈妈家去了，而妈妈则以为，我和妻女在一起。
My mother-in-law, wife and daughter thought I was going back to my mother's house, while mother thought I was with my wife and daughter.
我准备了能吃 3 天的蔬菜、 10 公斤大米和厨具、餐具，从唐山出发，驾车 1400 余公里，得开一天一夜。
I prepared vegetables, 10 kilograms of rice and utensils and cutlery for three days. From Tangshan, I drove more than 1,400 kilometers, one day and one night.
接近武汉，我才敢亮明目的，我在车头贴上标语「疫情不可怕，我们在一起」，这两句是我给自己鼓劲的，确实怕也没用，只能硬着头皮面对。
Close to Wuhan, I dare to make clear the purpose, I put a sign on the front of the car "epidemic is not terrible, we are together," these two sentences are my own encouragement, really afraid of no use, can only be forced to face.
老唐说他没别的特长，就是很会开车，有 B1 驾照，和一辆客货两用车。
Don said he had no other skills. He was a good driver, a B1 driver's license and a station wagon.
图源：受访者供图高速路上空荡荡的，途经柘城服务区，我在车上过了一夜。
Source: The interviewee is empty in Zhe Zheng area. I spent the night in the car.
2 月 9 日到武汉，进城很顺利。
I arrived in Wuhan on February 9th and went to the city smoothly.
我在武汉没有对接人，所以第一站就开到了火神山医院。
I did not docking in Wuhan, so the first stop on the fire god mountain hospital.
在唐山时，我就很关注火神山的建设，每天和几千万网友在屏幕前，当「云监工」。
In Tangshan, I was very concerned about the construction of Mount Fire, and tens of millions of netizens in front of the screen every day, when the "cloud supervisor."
在火神山医院外围，我碰上一个年轻警察，他问我是干什么的。
On the outskirts of Mount Fire Hospital, I met a young policeman who asked me what I was doing.
我说，想到医院开救护车。
I said I wanted an ambulance at the hospital.
里边戒严了，不让开车，我就下车往里走。
I got out of the car and started walking in, as the curfew was tight.
又碰上一个老警察，他说，这里的救护车都是军人开，我只好断了在火神山的念头。
Another old policeman said that the ambulance here was driven by soldiers, so I had to cut off the idea of Mount Fire.
之后，我开始打电话，找 114 ，找防疫指挥部，找各种机构，打了几十个电话，都不了解志愿者工作由哪里负责。
Then I started calling 114, looking for epidemic prevention headquarters, looking for agencies, making dozens of phone calls and not knowing where the volunteer work was responsible.
最后，打通了武汉市红十字会，接电话的是志愿者林淼，一个一直坚持的小伙子，他让我来面试。
Finally, the Wuhan Red Cross, answer the phone is a volunteer Lin Miao, a young man who has always insisted, he let me interview.
看到了我的车，见了我的人，很认可，他们便帮我四处联系人。
Seeing my car, seeing my people, recognizing me, they helped me out with four contacts.
通过志愿者车队的队长安迪，辗转推荐我到共青团硚口区委，而后又联系上硚口区卫健局，把我分到医疗救护组。
Through the volunteer team leader Andy, I was referred to the Communist Youth League Zhangkou District Committee, then contact Zhangkou District Health Bureau, I was assigned to the medical rescue team.
终于，我如愿成了一名救护车志愿司机。
Finally, I became a volunteer ambulance driver.
本来打算吃、住就在自己车上，感谢政府，给我安排了一家商务酒店住。
Originally intended to eat, live in their own car, thank the government, I arranged for a business hotel to stay.
开上了救护车第一天上班，是 2 月 10 日，工作是负责接送新冠患者。
On the first day of the ambulance ride to work, February 10, the job is to transport the new crown patients.
救护车停在汉中街卫生服务中心，那儿相对来说方便车辆出入，周围有好几家酒店被征用做隔离点，运送病人也方便。
Ambulances are parked at the Hanzhong Street Health Service Centre, which is relatively accessible, and several hotels are being requisitioned as quarantine points to transport patients.
这条「全国小商品市场第一街」没了往日的热闹， 1 月 26 日起，武汉中心城区区域就实行机动车禁行管理，只有经许可车辆才能上路。
Since January 26, Wuhan Central District has been under the ban on motor vehicles. Only licensed vehicles are allowed to go on the road.
我们是两班倒，我排到的都是白班，每天 8 点 30 集合，领到任务开始跑车，下午 17 时下班。
We worked in two shifts. I was in the daytime and gathered at 8: 30 every day, got the assignment to start the sports car, and closed at 17: 00 pm.
我这辆车平均每天运送 6 名患者，9 成以上都是从隔离点送到医院的。
My car carries an average of six patients a day, more than 90 per cent of whom are transported to the hospital from isolation points.
运送病人可有门道。
There is a way to transport patients.
组里共有 5 辆车，只有两辆是制式救护车，我开的是客货两用车，不像制式救护车那样驾驶舱和治疗舱之间有隔离，换句话说，我和病人是在一个空间里。
Of the five vehicles in the group, only two were standard ambulances, and I drove station wagons, unlike standard ambulances, where there was no separation between cockpit and treatment bay. In other words, I was in the same space as the patient.
防护设备在工作中也遇到了麻烦。
Protective equipment is also in trouble at work.
我们一天发一套防护衣，防护衣的拉链旁有一层一次性胶带，取掉了就粘不上去了，但是我们一个班次得 9 个小时，总得上厕所啊，我没穿过成人尿布，要上厕所就得换下防护衣。
We get a suit a day, a disposable tape next to the zipper of the jacket that won't stick, but we have to go to the bathroom for nine hours on a shift. I don't wear an adult diaper and I have to change my suit to go to the bathroom.
护目镜容易起水雾，影响开车的视线。
The goggles get foggy easily and affect the sight of driving.
有人教我，拿沐浴液抹一抹镜面，就不容易起雾，但我试过这方法，不管用。
I was taught that it's not easy to get foggy with a shower gel, but I've tried it, it doesn't work.
到武汉的第 3 天，我第一次进医院。
On the third day of my visit to Wuhan, I went to the hospital for the first time.
从隔离点接一位病人到医院，他病情看起来非常严重，下车都很困难，我便去医院借来轮椅。
I went to the hospital to borrow a wheelchair from a patient who looked so sick that it was difficult to get off the bus.
接下来就是抱大爷下车了。
The next step was to get off the bus.
说实话，我也很害怕，但随行的护士是个小女孩，看着就没什么力气。
To tell you the truth, I was scared too, but the nurse with me was a little girl, and I had no energy to look at.
这种事也不能让女人做，必须得我来做，我把大爷抱上轮椅、推去找医生。
This kind of thing also can't let the woman do, must have me to do, I put the grandfather in the wheelchair, pushed to see the doctor.
克服了这道心理关，以后再接送老人时，遇到行动不便的我就会主动去搀扶、帮忙抬轮椅。
Overcame this psychological pass, and later to pick up the elderly, encountered mobility difficulties I will take the initiative to help, help lift the wheelchair.
看到这些老年患者，我就想到自己家里的两位老人，还有啥顾忌呢？家属不允许跟车。
Seeing these elderly patients, I think of their own two elderly, what scruples? Families are not allowed to follow the car.
有一次，我去隔离点接一位男患者到医院。
Once, I went to a seclusion to pick up a man from the hospital.
他有糖尿病，喘得特别厉害。
He's got diabetes and he's panting really hard.
我见到他妻子来送她，他妻子也在隔离点，只是病情没他那么重。
I saw his wife come to see her off, and his wife was in quarantine, but not as seriously as he was.
口罩挡住了她的面部，看不清表情，眼神的关切还是能看得出的，她对我说，请多照顾一下她丈夫，你是好人，然后给我鞠躬，很朴实。
Her face was covered with a mask, and the concern in her eyes was visible. She said, 'Take care of her husband a little more, you're a good man, and bow down to me.
最多的一天，我运送了 17 名病人。
On the biggest day, I transported 17 patients.
那是得益于床位出现的积极变化，一些医院的隔离病房，连续几天出现床位数量大于病患数量的情况。
That was thanks to positive changes in beds, with some hospitals having more beds than patients for days at a time.
从人等床，到明显出现床等人。
From people waiting for a bed, to the apparent emergence of a bed and others.
一床难求的情况不再，可以住上院的病人多了，而我们这边跟车的医护人员紧缺，每趟只能我一个人来执行任务，工作量更重了。
A difficult situation no longer, can live in the upper house more patients, and our side of the shortage of medical staff, I can only travel alone to carry out tasks, the workload has increased.
我总是尽量把车开快一点，得有 70 公里/小时吧。
I always try to drive as fast as I can. It must be 70 kilometres per hour.
因为患者等病床等很长时间了，早一秒钟就能让患者安心一些。
Because patients have been waiting for beds for a long time, a second early can reassure patients.
我开的不是制式救护车，没有闪灯、没有声音警报，那我也得给它开出救护车的感觉。
I'm not driving a standard ambulance, no flashing lights, no sound alarm, so I have to give it the feel of an ambulance.
一起开救护车的伙计，多数都是本地人。
Most of the guys who drive ambulances together are locals.
我们从来没有谁中途退缩，没有人抱怨过防护水平低，这个时候敢于站出来，都是英雄。
We never flinched, no one complained about the low level of protection, this time dare to stand up, are heroes.
他们为了不让家人冒风险，志愿服务期间，也都搬出武汉的家，自己在外住。
In order not to let their families take risks, during the period of voluntary service, also moved out of Wuhan, their own living.
老唐拍摄的一起执行任务的女志愿者，在路边等待运送物资。
Old Tang photographed a woman volunteer on a mission, waiting by the roadside to deliver supplies.
图源：老唐拍摄我成长的年代讲究互助、讲究团结、讲究你追我赶、讲究奉献。
Source: Old Tang filmed my age stress on mutual assistance, unity, stress on you to catch up, dedication.
那个年代没有「志愿者」这个说法，我就是想着学雷锋、做好事。
There was no "volunteer" in that era, I just want to learn Lei Feng, do good deeds.
雷锋精神是我们中国才有的财富，外国人没有，不能说随着时代发展，这些闪光的精神就被埋没了、消失了。
Lei Feng spirit is our only wealth, foreigners do not, can not be said that with the development of the times, these flash spirit was buried, disappeared.
救护车的白班上完后，我有时也会开着自己那辆小货车，参加硚口区区团委和善缘义助组织的志愿者车队，给医院运送物资：防寒衣物、取暖器、防护物品、食物、矿泉水、餐盒等。
When the ambulance's white class is over, I sometimes drive my pickup truck to take part in a volunteer convoy of Zheng Kou District Council and Good Affinity Aid to deliver supplies to the hospital: cold-proof clothing, radiators, protective goods, food, mineral water, food boxes, etc.
志愿者车队的氛围，和我开救护车不大一样。
The atmosphere of the volunteer convoy was not the same as I was driving an ambulance.
大家一块装车，有说有笑，气氛轻松。
Everyone loaded together, talking and laughing, the atmosphere relaxed.
开救护车我基本全程不能说话，因为本来前后舱就是敞开的，一说话就容易有飞沫传播的风险。
I could hardly speak in an ambulance because the cabin was open before and after, and there was a risk of droplets spreading.
在一群鄂 A 牌照的私家车中，我是唯一的外地牌照冀 B 。
In a group of E-license plates of private cars, I was the only non-local license Ji B.
其他志愿者说他们是本地人，就得保卫武汉，能干点啥就干点啥。
Other volunteers say they are locals and have to defend Wuhan and do whatever it takes.
而我与疫情本来毫不相干，却来支援武汉，很感谢我与他们并肩而干，特别喜欢我的车。
But I had nothing to do with the outbreak, but came to support Wuhan, thank me for working side by side with them, especially like my car.
救护车的白班上完后，老唐就开着自己的车参与搬运物资。
When the white class of the ambulance was over, Tang drove his own car to carry the supplies.
在志愿者车队中的一群鄂 A 牌照，老唐是唯一的外地牌照：冀 B 。
In the volunteer convoy of a group of E license plates, Lao Tang is the only foreign license plate: Ji B.
图源：唐山劳动日报因为都是晚上才能参与物资运输，我记得干得最晚的一趟是在 2 月 22 日。
Source: Tangshan Labor Daily can not participate in the delivery of goods because of the night, I remember the last one is February 22.
那一晚，我从黄陂区把物资运到光谷，来回跑了 100 多公里，直到半夜时才完成任务。
That night, I transported goods from Huangpi District to Guanggu and ran back and forth for more than 100 kilometers until midnight.
2 月这 20 天，我的客车在武汉市区累计行程已达 1800 余公里，运了约 20 吨（方）的物资。
Over the past 20 days in February, my passenger train has traveled more than 1,800 kilometers in Wuhan city, carrying about 20 tons of goods.
虽然我手机话费只剩几十元了，电话是漫游，舍不得接听。
Although my mobile phone charges only a few dozen yuan, the telephone is roaming, unwilling to accept.
在每天上下班的路上，我还会拐个弯，送有需求的医务人员一程。
On my way to and from work every day, I would turn around and give a ride to medical staff in need.
我的伙伴都是年轻人，甚至有 00 后，一个 19 岁的小伙子，我头一次交到这么多年轻的朋友。
My buddies were young people, and even then, a 19-year-old guy, I made so many young friends for the first time.
有网友关心我在武汉吃不吃得惯，非常时期，能吃饱就好。
Some netizens care about me eating in Wuhan do not eat used to, extraordinary times, can eat full good.
酒店是政府安排的，也有工作餐。
The hotel is arranged by the government, and there are working meals.
但我们经常赶不上吃饭的点，跟打仗似的，来了任务就得走，所以就一次性尽可能多吃点，提高抵抗力。
But we often miss the meal point, like war, when the mission has to leave, so try to eat as much as possible to improve resistance.
工作的困难都好说，最难的是瞒住家人。
The difficulty of work is easy to say, the hardest thing is to conceal the family.
起初，我拉妹妹帮我，让她跟我老婆说，我在妈妈这边。
At first, I took my sister to help me and told her to tell my wife that I was on my mother's side.
后来差点儿露馅，我老婆问我姐，我赶紧让我姐也帮我把谎圆了。
Later, my wife asked my sister, I quickly let my sister also help me to lie round.
有时想想，心里也不是滋味。
Sometimes I think about it, but I don't feel it.
因祸得福2 月 29 日，四年才有一次的闰日，是我最后一天开救护车。
A leap day comes only once in four years. It is my last day to drive an ambulance.
车队这边的工作要结束了，我知道，武汉疫情最严重的时期已经过去，我也打算回家了，因为我回到唐山还要隔离 14 天，家人等不及了。
This is the end of the convoy, I know, Wuhan has passed the worst of the epidemic, I also intend to go home, because I return to Tangshan and quarantine for 14 days, the family can not wait.
好消息开始多起来，3 月 1 日，随着最后一批 34 名患者出院，硚口区武体方舱医院「休舱」，不再接收患者。
On March 1, with the last batch of 34 patients discharged from hospital, Zhangkou District Armed Services Square Hospital was closed to patients.
这是武汉首家「关门」的方舱医院。
This is Wuhan's first "closed" square cabin hospital.
在我来武汉之前，2 月 5 日到 6 日，武汉市第一批方舱医院正式启用， 4000 张床位到位，那是在 29 小时内昼夜不息搭建起来的，那些参与建设的伙计真是好样的。
Before I came to Wuhan, from February 5 to 6, the first batch of Fangcao hospitals in Wuhan was officially opened, with 4,000 beds available.
3 月 1 日，硚口区卫健局通知，对志愿司机进行体检，排查肺炎感染的情况。
March 1, Zhangkou District Health Service notice, volunteer drivers for a medical examination, screening pneumonia infection.
我本来以为，体检完后拿到健康证明，就跟大伙一样，各回各家。
I thought, after the medical check-up to get a health certificate, just like everyone else, back to their homes.
好消息是，我的核酸检测是阴性，没有感染。
The good news is, my nucleic acid test is negative, no infection.
坏消息是， CT 检查报告单显示，我「左肺上叶尖后段占位、双侧肺气肿」，用白话说，我肺部长了个肿瘤。
The bad news is that my CT report showed that I had "a space in the posterior segment of my upper left lung, bilateral emphysema," and in plain language, a tumor in my lungs.
我自认为身体还好，有几年没体检了，没想到有了这毛病。
I think I'm fine, I haven't had a physical examination for several years, I didn't expect to have this problem.
本来，我想当做什么都没发生，我都一把年纪了，啥都得接受。
Originally, I thought as if nothing had happened, I am old enough to accept everything.
救护车不开了，我还可以开着小货车搬卸货物、运送物资。
Ambulances don't work, and I can pick up and unload goods in pickup trucks.
3 月 5 日，有一位熟悉我的医生告诉我，我的身体情况，已不适合进行体力劳动。
On 5 March, a doctor familiar with me told me that my physical condition made me unfit for manual labour.
武汉当地媒体对老唐的报道图源：网络截图志愿者车队不少朋友很关心我，他们不再允许我去参与搬运物资，希望我多休息。
Wuhan local media coverage of the old Tang source: Network screenshots of the volunteer team a lot of friends are very concerned about me, they no longer allow me to participate in the removal of supplies, I hope I take more rest.
我也埋怨过他们有活儿不叫我，可也知道都是为我好。
I've complained that they don't call me for work, but I know it's for my own good.
我感觉自己就像在坐月子一样，每天喝着鸡汤、鱼汤。
I feel like I'm sitting in bed, drinking chicken soup and fish soup every day.
朋友们天天追着我给我送饭，从四面八方给我送饭，我这心里头，热乎乎的。
My friends chase me every day to bring me food, from all sides to bring me food, my heart, warm.
3 月 7 日，两位汉中街社区卫生服务中心的医生来探望我，给我送来捐款，说是替我服务过的那些患者感谢我。
On 7 March, two doctors from the Hanzhong Street Community Health Service Centre came to visit me and sent me donations saying that the patients I had worked for were grateful to me.
这钱，我当然不能要，百般推辞，最后也没要。
Of course I can't have the money. I'm not going to take it.
还有人为我捐款捐物，我都拒绝了。
I've been turned down for donations and donations.
我留在武汉，只是给武汉添加负担。
I stayed in Wuhan, just to add to the burden of Wuhan.
与此同时，我十分担心瞒不下去，老人家知道了惦记我，导致病情加重，那样，我将是罪人。
At the same time, I was very much afraid that I would be a sinner if I knew that I was being thought of and that I was getting worse.
我希望能回家，回到亲人身边。
I wish I could go home to my loved ones.
3 月 3 日，我给武汉市领导写信，恳求离汉通行证。
On March 3, I wrote to Wuhan city leaders pleading for my Departure Pass.
我说，领导，您日夜操劳辛苦了，我的核酸检测是阴性。
I said, leader, you work hard day and night, my nucleic acid test is negative.
我一人返程，在车内吃住，保证不近距离接触他人，按规定主动报告家乡各级防疫组织，自觉到规定的隔离点进行医学隔离 14 天，严格遵守各项防疫规定，恳请尊敬的领导百忙中恩准为盼。
I return home alone, eat and shelter in the vehicle, promise not to come into close contact with others, report voluntarily to the epidemic prevention organizations at various levels in my hometown, consciously go to the designated quarantine point for 14 days for medical isolation, strictly observe the epidemic prevention regulations, and solicit your gracious attention.
我认识的一位「高参」还帮我题了一首诗：前有阻倭保武汉，今日抗疫绕龟山，直面疫情凝心力，曙光呈现双峰山。
I know a "Gao Ginseng" also helped me write a poem: the former Japanese have blocked the Japanese, today's anti-epidemic around Mt. Turtle, face up to the outbreak of the disease, the dawn presents a bimodal mountain.
然后，我就把情况说明传真给了武汉市疫情指挥部。
Then I faxed the fact sheet to Wuhan city epidemic command.
与此同时，我让志愿者车队的朋友，帮我把申请离汉通行证的请求转发到社交媒体上，NCP 生命支援的官方微博也发微博帮我求援，有近4千人转发。
At the same time, I asked my friends in the volunteer team to forward my request for a Departure Pass to social media, and the official NCP Life Support Weibo tweeted to me for help, which was forwarded by nearly 4,000 people.
关于老唐的求援微博图源：微博截图唐山防疫指挥部愿意给我开接收证明，那边领导说，家里啥都能给你解决，回来吧，啥担心也不要有。
About old Tang's request for help Weibo map: Weibo screenshot Tangshan epidemic prevention command willing to give me a receipt certificate, the leadership there said that you can solve everything at home, come back, nothing to worry about.
硚口区卫健局的蔡主任找到我沟通，希望我尽快在武汉接受治疗。
Zhoukou District Health Bureau Tsai Director to me to communicate, hope that I can be treated in Wuhan as soon as possible.
3 月 8 日，是我生日。
March 8th, my birthday.
有记者联系了武汉市疫情指挥部，指挥部说，建议我先在武汉就近治疗，给我开通就医绿色通道，所有费用由政府承担，待相关限行举措符合放行条件时，再安排我回家。
Wuhan city has been contacted by a reporter of the epidemic command, the command said that I first in Wuhan nearby treatment, to open a green passage to me, all costs by the Government, until the relevant restrictions on the conditions for release, I will be arranged to go home.
16 日，我意外接到了湖北省防疫指挥部的通知，我获特批，拿到了离开武汉的通行证。
On the 16th, I received an unexpected notice from the epidemic prevention command in Hubei Province. I was given special permission to leave Wuhan.
当天 16 时，我一个人开车，离开武汉，不像来武汉那么赶，回程我心态平稳了许多，预计 3 月 18 日回到唐山。
At 16: 00 on the same day, I drove alone, leaving Wuhan, unlike to Wuhan, I return to a much calmer mood, expected to return to Tangshan on March 18.
到家，我就安心隔离，谢谢各位朋友对我的关心。
Home, I feel secure in isolation, thank you for your concern for me.
（主笔更多好文，可点击「阅读原文」）撰文：郑宇钧编辑：于陆封面图来源：受访者供图—Tips—我们的新书《生死之间》出版了可识别下方图片中的二维码购买偶尔治愈to-cure-sometimes——记录人与疾病、衰老、死亡的相处方式偶尔治愈 | 常常帮助 | 总是安慰。
http: / / www.youtheme.cn / www.youtheme.cn www.youtheme.cn www.youtheme.cn http: / / www.youtheme.cnOur new book, Between Life and Death, publishes two-dimensional code purchases that recognize the occasional cure to disease, old age, and death.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
封城后进武汉开救护车、生日前查出肿瘤：那个河北志愿者离开武汉了。
After the closure of the city into Wuhan to drive an ambulance, before the birthday to detect tumors: that Hebei volunteers left Wuhan.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "偶尔治愈";。
Var nickname = & quot; occasionally cured & quot;;
var msg_title = "封城后进武汉开救护车、生日前查出肿瘤：那个河北志愿者离开武汉了";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;
var msg_desc = "昨天，我拿到了离开武汉的通行证。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Yesterday, I got a permit to leave Wuhan.
我是来帮忙的，得这病跟武汉没关系，怎么好意思在武汉治病、麻烦武汉呢？";。
I've come to help. Having the disease has nothing to do with Wuhan. How did you treat it in Wuhan?
var title ="偶尔治愈";。
var title = & quot; occasionally cured & quot;;
