发过誓的人。
A person who swears.
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
制图：程璨本文约5117字预计阅读时间13分钟作者 |中青报·中青网记者 王鑫昕 孙庆玲 雷宇过去两个月里，白袍是武汉最让人安心的服饰，那些身着白袍的人受到了最高礼遇，也承受了最多压力。
Charting: About 5117 words Estimated reading time 13 minutes By Zhongqing News Zhongqing Xin Sun Qingling Lei Yu Over the past two months, the white robe has been Wuhan's most reassuring garment, and those in white have received the highest courtesies and suffered the most stress.
复旦大学附属中山医院副院长朱畴文带着一支130人的医疗队从上海飞到武汉时，偌大的天河机场，灯光只为这一个航班而开，这是他从未见过的“待遇”。
When Zhu Yuwen, vice-dean of Fudan University's Zhongshan Hospital, flew from Shanghai to Wuhan with a 130-member medical team, the huge Tianhe airport, whose lights were only for one flight, was the "treatment" he had never seen.
1月23日，为了遏制新冠病毒的扩散，武汉关闭了大门，仅有执行战“疫”公务的少数人获准通行。
On January 23, Wuhan closed its doors to stop the spread of the virus, allowing only a few people on official business to cross the border.
随后，包括除夕在内，全中国陆续有超过3.5万名医生和护士，通过各种交通工具“逆行”到了武汉，其中大约三分之一是90后和00后的年轻人。
Later, including New Year's Eve, more than 35,000 doctors and nurses from all over China travelled retrograde by various means of transportation to Wuhan, about a third of whom were young people after the 90s and 2000s.
不止一个人引用过这样的说法：在2003年SARS疫情时，自己还只是个受人保护的孩子，现在轮到自己去保护别人了。
More than one person has quoted people saying that when SARS broke out in 2003, he was a protected child and now it is his turn to protect others.
谈到这些人时，中央赴湖北指导组成员、国务院副秘书长丁向阳感慨：“昨天父母眼中的孩子，今天已然成为了新时代共和国的脊梁，成为我们国家的骄傲和希望。
"The child in the eyes of our parents yesterday has become the backbone of the Republic of the New Era and the pride and hope of our nation," said Ding Xiangyang, vice-secretary-general of the State Council and a member of the Central Government's Hubei Provincial Steering Committee.
”在武汉，可以找到很多这样的年轻人，他们的故事已经是城市记忆里的一部分：当地同一家医院里，一位一线医生给7个月大的孩子断了奶；另一位医生，把两个孩子托付给亲戚，与同为医生的丈夫去了一线；还有一位20多岁的医生找到科室主任说，家里孩子还小，她很害怕，想要辞职，事实上，她不但没有离开，反而在自身出现症状后，仍表示只要排除感染，还要“回来”。
In Wuhan, you can find many young people whose stories are part of the city's memory: a first-line doctor in the same local hospital who weaned her seven-month-old child; another doctor in her 20s, entrusting her two children to relatives, approached her doctor and said she was afraid and wanted to quit.
一位名叫甘如意的医生，在武汉“封城”之前，刚回到300多公里之外的荆州老家准备过年。
A doctor named Kan Rui, in Wuhan before the "closure", has just returned to more than 300 kilometers away Jingzhou home to prepare for the New Year.
得知“封城”消息后，她决定返回武汉。
After learning of the "closure" news, she decided to return to Wuhan.
已经没有公共交通可供选择了。
Public transportation is no longer an option.
这个24岁的年轻人一路靠着自行车、顺风车、步行，花了4天3夜回到自己的岗位——武汉市江夏区金口卫生院范湖分院。
The 24-year-old returned to his post in four days and three nights, leaning against a bicycle, windward and on foot - Fan Lake Branch of Jinkou Health Center in Jiangxia District, Wuhan.
当地政府为她开具的临时通行证上，车牌号一栏写着“自行车”。
The local government issued her a temporary pass marked "Bicycle."
她的车轮驶向人类史上罕见的瘟疫。
Her wheels sailed for a plague rarely seen in human history.
“最硬的鳞”给了武汉2月7日晚上，朱畴文率领的130人医疗队进入武汉市区，他们看到，所有商店都关着门，街上没有车，也没有行人。
"The hardest scales" to Wuhan Feb. 7 night, Zhuchuofen led a 130-member medical team into Wuhan City, they saw that all the shops are closed, no cars, no pedestrians on the streets.
经过这座城市的标志性建筑长江大桥、黄鹤楼时，队里最活泼的年轻人也没有表现出初来乍到者的惊讶和欢呼，所有人都沉默不语。
After the city's landmark buildings Changjiang Bridge, Yellow Crane Tower, the team's most lively young people did not show the surprise and cheers of newcomers, all silent.
“一种说不出的感觉。
"An indescribable feeling.
”朱畴文说。
"said Chu.
有人制作了一个动画，描绘全国各地医务人员驰援武汉的场面：武汉发出“求救”后，中国地图上各地都亮起了响应的旗帜。
An animation was made depicting medical workers from all over the country hurrying to Wuhan: after Wuhan issued a "cry for help," flags were flashed all over the map of China.
各地的著名医院纷纷派出医疗队，协和、湘雅、齐鲁、华西……有人形容：“全村的龙都把最硬的鳞给了武汉。
Famous hospitals all over the world have sent medical teams, Concorde, Xiangya, Qilu, Huaxi... Some people describe: "The whole village of dragons have given Wuhan the hardest scales.
”“人类历史上恐怕没有如此大规模聚集医疗力量的先例了。
"There is probably no precedent in human history for such a large-scale gathering of medical forces.
”中国医师协会常务副会长、中国工程院院士董家鸿说。
"said Dong Jiahong, executive vice-president of the Chinese Medical Association and academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering.
董家鸿供职的北京清华长庚医院派出了20多人支援武汉。
Dong Jiahong worked at the Changgong Hospital in Tsinghua, Beijing, which sent more than 20 people to Wuhan.
接到通知时，一位医生连家都来不及回，直奔机场，家人把他的行李送到了机场。
At this time, a doctor had no time to return home and went straight to the airport, where his family took his luggage to the airport.
四川大学华西医院消化内科护士长王瑞在2月7日随医疗队增援武汉，一周之后，她的丈夫陈心足也被派到了武汉。
Sichuan University Huaxi Hospital Digestive Medicine Nurse Wang Rui on February 7 with the medical team reinforcement Wuhan, a week later, her husband Chen Xinfu was also sent to Wuhan.
夫妻二人一个在长江右岸的武汉大学人民医院东区，一个在长江左岸的武汉协和医院肿瘤中心，一个多星期也没能见上一面。
The two were in the eastern section of Wuhan University's People's Hospital on the right bank of the Yangtze River, a tumor center at Wuhan Concord Hospital on the left bank of the Yangtze River.
随着夫妻同上一线的故事不断被记者们挖掘出来，有关方面一度感到担忧，甚至考虑是否强行撤回一人，以防极端情况下可能给医护人员家庭造成不可挽回的创伤。
As the story of the couple on the same line continues to be unearthed by journalists, there has been some concern about the forced withdrawal of one person in case of extreme events that could cause irreparable damage to the families of medical personnel.
“再坚持一天”说了七八天看到前来支援的四川医疗队队员时，武汉市红十字会医院的很多医护人员哭了，“援军终于来了”。
"Persist for another day" said seven or eight days to see the support of members of the Sichuan medical team, Wuhan Red Cross Hospital many medical personnel cried, "finally came reinforcements.
春节前那几天，这家距离华南海鲜市场直线距离仅一公里的医院正处于崩溃的边缘。
The hospital, just a kilometre from the southern seafood market, was on the verge of collapse in the days before the Spring Festival.
呼吸科很快收满了病人，接着体检科被改造成呼吸病区，又改造了肿瘤病区……直到医院变成一家传染病医院。
The respiratory department quickly filled up with patients, and the unit was transformed into a respiratory unit, a cancer ward... until the hospital became an infectious disease hospital.
1月21日，武汉市红十字会医院被定为新冠肺炎患者定点收治医院，22日的门诊量是1700人，23日门诊量达到峰值：2400人。
On January 21, Wuhan Red Cross Hospital was designated as the designated hospital for patients with pneumonia, the 22-day outpatient volume is 1,700, the 23-day outpatient volume reached a peak of 2,400.
“要知道，我们平常的门诊量也就800到1000个。
"You know, we usually have 800 to 1,000 outpatient consultations.
”武汉市红十字会医院院长熊念说。
"said Xiong Nian, director of Wuhan Red Cross hospital.
由于早期定点收治医院数量有限，连20公里之外的病人都跑到了红十字会医院。
Owing to the limited number of early referral hospitals, even patients 20 kilometres away arrived at the Red Cross hospital.
当时，整个城市正陷入一场危机。
At the time, the whole city was in crisis.
武汉市原先只有两家传染病医院，病床不超过1000张。
Wuhan had only two hospitals for infectious diseases, with no more than 1,000 beds.
但是，疫情高峰的时候，每天新增3000多张床位需求。
But at the height of the epidemic, there was a demand for more than 3,000 new beds a day.
“这对世界上任何一个城市来说，都是挑战。
"This is a challenge for any city in the world.
”在3月的一场新闻发布会上，丁向阳说。
'Mr. Ding said at a press conference in March.
这组数据透露出的巨大供需缺口，在武汉市红十字会医院的医务人员那里，是具体而微的挑战。
The huge gap between supply and demand revealed by this data is a specific and minor challenge for medical staff at Wuhan Red Cross Hospital.
外科、妇科、儿科、五官科……所有科室的医护人员都在应对同一种病毒，人还是不够，所有的科室主任都在找院领导要人手增援。
Surgery, gynaecology, paediatrics, facial department... all the medical staff of all departments are dealing with the same virus, people are still not enough, all the department directors are looking for the hospital leadership to reinforce.
“再坚持一天。
"" One more day.
”同样的话，一位院领导对着科室主任们“已经说了七八天”，“我哪里有人？”护工的薪水开到了一个月3万元，还是没人来。
"Similarly, a hospital director to the department directors" has said seven or eight days, "" I where someone? "The nurse's salary of 30,000 yuan a month, or no one came.
护士兼做了护工，负责重症病人的日常护理。
The nurse works as a nurse and is responsible for the day-to-day care of critically ill patients.
因为防护装备跟不上，这家医院的医生、护士减员严重。
Doctors and nurses at the hospital have been severely reduced because their protective equipment has not kept pace.
“感染一批，倒下一批。
"One infection, one fall.
”熊念说，连护理部主任也上了一线，最终感染了病毒。
Even the head of the nursing department was on the front line and eventually contracted the virus, Xiong said.
四川医疗队队员雷波到中药房找药，发现没人，药师们要么“中招儿”，要么去门诊帮忙了。
Sichuan medical team member Reibo to the Chinese pharmacy, found nobody, the pharmacists either "trick", or go to the clinic to help.
医院一位工作人员的丈夫感染新冠肺炎住院一个月了，她没时间去看望。
The husband of a hospital worker has been hospitalized with pneumonia for a month and she has no time to see him.
医疗队员问起她的丈夫，她哭了起来：“我根本顾不上他。
When the medic asked about her husband, she began to cry, "I don't care for him at all.
”有人“归队”，有人再也无法“归队”直到今天，武汉市红十字会医院依然弥漫着紧张气氛。
"Some returned," others could not "come back" to this day, Wuhan Red Cross hospital is still filled with tension.
红色和黄色的“水马”拱卫着这家地处闹市的医院，工作人员穿着防护服，警惕地扫描着任何试图靠近医院的人。
Red and yellow "water horses" guarded the downtown hospital, while staff dressed in protective clothing scanned anyone trying to get close to the hospital.
“整个医院都是污染区。
"The whole hospital is polluted.
”熊念说。
"said Xiong.
他的值班同事为访客测量体温，提防着随时可能闯进来的病毒。
His on-duty colleague took the visitors' temperature and was alert for viruses that might break in at any time.
但他看上去很淡定。
But he doesn't look very determined.
这位80后院长率领团队扛过了医院最艰难的时刻，如今和300多名四川医疗队的医护人员一起，继续救治病人。
The 80-year-old, who led the team through the hospital's most difficult moments, now works with more than 300 Sichuan medical staff to continue treating patients.
早期病人涌入医院的时候，没有防护服，他戴着口罩、穿着隔离服穿梭在门诊区，调度有限的医护力量。
When the early patients poured into the hospital without protective clothing, he wore a mask, dressed in isolation and shuttled through the outpatient area, dispatching limited medical attention.
最致命的是防护物资的短缺，他四处求人借防护服。
Most deadly of all was the shortage of protective gear, which he asked for everywhere.
疫情早期，湖北省超过3000名医护人员被感染，其中40%是在医院感染的。
In the early days of the epidemic, more than 3,000 medical workers in Hubei Province were infected, 40 percent of them in hospitals.
其中，最牵动人心的是那些殉职者：29岁的彭银华医生，同样29岁的夏思思医生……武汉市中心医院已有4位医生殉职，武昌医院则失去了院长刘智明。
Among them, the most moving were those who died in the line of duty: 29-year-old Dr. Peng Yinhua, also 29-year-old Dr Xia Sithi... Wuhan Central Hospital has lost four doctors and Wuchang Hospital has lost its dean, Liu Zhiming.
为这些人，武汉人不知流了多少眼泪。
For these people, Wuhan people do not know how many tears flow.
有的医务人员在康复后又“归队”了——同事之间聊起“归队”，就像在说刚刚去了什么平常的地方转了转。
Some medical staff "turn back" after recovery - colleagues talk about "coming back" as if to say they've just gone somewhere normal.
武汉大学人民医院急诊科护士贾娜在除夕那天确诊，这位24岁的护士“怕极了”，她设想过“自己会死”。
Jana, an emergency nurse at Wuhan University's People's Hospital, confirmed on New Year's Eve that the 24-year-old nurse was "terrified" and had "thought she would die."
康复后，她“归队”了。
After her recovery, she "returned" to the team.
康复大约10天后，她去医院捐献了300毫升血清，希望自己的抗体帮助别人。
After about 10 days of recovery, she went to the hospital and donated 300 ml of serum in the hope that her antibody would help others.
“就像是在黑暗中不停歇地从死神手里拉扯争夺，只为活着的人争取生机。
It is like a ceaseless struggle in the dark for the life of the living.
”她说，“如果不去的话，我肯定会遗憾终生。
"I would certainly regret it if I didn't go," she said.
”从护士变成病人再回归护士身份，和新冠病毒对抗的经历，让贾娜觉得更加理解病人的眼神了。
The experience of changing from nurse to patient and back to nurse, versus the new crown virus, made Jana feel more understanding of her patients' eyes.
“那种绝望和恐惧，我和他们一样明白。
I know the despair and the fear as well as they do.
”她说，病人眼中的世界和常人眼中的世界不一样，他们不只需要治疗护理，更需要鼓励关心。
Patients see the world differently from the average person, and they don't just need curative care, they need to be encouraged to care, she said.
“比活着更重要的，是希望。
"More important than living is hope.
”平时献血都要搞“摊派”的人，让人刮目相看带着一群年轻护士到武汉，上海交通大学医学院附属瑞金医院手术室护士长王晓宁原本心里没底，以为她们会哭鼻子、闹情绪。
In Wuhan, the head nurse of the operating room of Ruijin Hospital attached to the Medical School of Shanghai Jiaotong University, Wang Xiaoning, thought that they would cry and get angry.
瑞金医院130多人的医疗队里，超过一半是90后。
More than half of the 130-strong medical team at Ruijin Hospital is 90 days later.
护士朱酉琦的爸爸妈妈一度觉得，上武汉一线这样的大事，还轮不到自己女儿。
Nurse Zhu Youqi's father and mother once felt that such a major event on the Wuhan line, not their daughter.
朱酉琦则很想在爸妈面前澄清自己的形象：“在科室，我们90后都是中流砥柱了。
Zhu Youqi wants to clarify his image in front of his parents: "In the department, we are the mainstay after 90."
”在武汉工作一段时间之后，王晓宁不得不承认，这些孩子的点子和热情，“是我们不能企及的”。
After working in Wuhan for some time, Ms Wang had to admit that the children's ideas and enthusiasm were "out of our reach."
由于穿着防护服交流不便，护士们会把常见问题写在防护服上，到病人跟前用手一指，无需语言就能交流。
Because wearing protective clothing is not easy to communicate with, nurses write down frequently asked questions on protective clothing and point their hands in front of the patient so that they can communicate without words.
几个“灵魂画手”还在防护服上画上她们喜欢的图案、“蜡笔小新”等卡通人物来回穿梭，调剂着病房里的氛围。
Several "soul painting" also on the protective clothing they like the design, "crayon xiaoxin" and other cartoon characters shuttling back and forth, adjust the atmosphere in the ward.
来武汉的报名通知一出，10分钟内，手术室的153名护士就有130多人报名。
Wuhan registration notice, within 10 minutes, the operating room 153 nurses more than 130 people signed up.
王晓宁对这群“平时献血都要搞‘摊派’”的年轻人刮目相看。
Wang Xiaoning to this group of "peacetime blood donation to do 'apportionment' of the young people with a new look.
1990年出生的瑞金医院麻醉科医生缪晟昊很享受这种团队共事的状态：护士拿着注射器，看医生的眼神就知道什么时候该推药；病人嘴巴一张开，不用麻醉医生说话，喉镜、管子就递过来了；管子滑过会厌的时候，就有人把导芯抽掉了。
Shengho Mui, an anesthesiologist at Ruijin Hospital born in 1990, enjoyed working with the team: the nurse held a syringe and looked into the doctor's eyes to see when to push the medicine.
插管医生被人形容为“敢死队”，打开病人气道的那一刹那，他们离病毒最近。
Intubation doctors were described as "death squads," and they were closest to the virus the moment they opened the patient's airway.
但缪晟昊把插管形容为“飞机迫降”：不是靠机长一个人，而是靠整个团队。
But ShengHao Mui described the intubation as "aircraft landing": not by the captain alone, but by the entire team.
从如战场般的救治现场下来的时候，年轻的医生和护士们偶尔会想起从前那些“噩梦般的”业务抽查、专业考试。
As they descend from battlefield medicine, young doctors and nurses occasionally think of the nightmarish business-as-usual, professional examinations.
护士王蕾说，那些“让人汗毛都竖起来”的场景，平常觉得没啥用，到了武汉觉得太重要了，“战场”上的表现，全靠平常的积累。
Nurse Wang Lei said that the "make people hair bristling up" scene, usually feel no use, to Wuhan feel too important, the "battlefield" performance, all rely on ordinary accumulation.
年轻的医生与古老的誓言1月14日那天，武汉市蔡甸区人民医院医生夏思思在下夜班回家的路上得知，科室收治了一位高度疑似新冠肺炎的病人，她立刻返回了医院。
On her way home from the night shift, Xia Cis, a doctor at the Cai Den District People's Hospital in Wuhan, said on her way home from the night shift that she had admitted a patient with a suspected new crown pneumonia and returned to the hospital immediately.
她感染了，后来因此殉职。
She was infected and later died on duty.
夏思思的孩子才两岁多，还不知道妈妈没了，每次问到，爸爸就回答，“妈妈在上班”。
Xia Sis child just two years old, do not know the mother is gone, each time asked, his father replied, "Mom is at work."
噩耗传出后，她曾经的大学老师和同学都感到惋惜——她是“当医生的料”，出自一个医学世家，大学一年级就表现出了对于从医的兴趣。
After the bad news, her former college teacher and classmate lamented the fact that she was a "doctor's man" from a family of medical scientists who had demonstrated an interest in medicine in her freshman year.
班长饶焱说，同学中约有一半以上的人做了医生，也有人转行了，夏思思对医生这个职业的强烈情感，让人印象深刻。
Yim, monitor of the class, said that about half of the students have become doctors, and some have changed their profession. Xia's strong feelings about the profession are impressive.
回忆起夏思思时，5年多前跟她一起入职的同事蔡颖珂提到了每一名医学生必读的希波克拉底誓言——令无数后来者矢志不渝的古老格言。
As she recalls summer, her colleague Cai Yingke, who joined her more than five years ago, referred to the Hippocratic oath that every medical student must read - an old adage to which countless latecomers cling.
她对记者忆起夏思思的种种琐事——这是一个对病人富于耐心的、温柔的医生，也是一个感染病毒后害怕而又积极配合治疗的病人，一个受人尊重的同事。
She recalled to the reporter the details of her summer thoughts, a patient, gentle physician to the patient, a frightened patient who had responded positively to treatment, a respected colleague.
蔡颖珂感慨，有时候，职业的神圣感是需要经历一些事情才能感受到的，这一次，牺牲就在身边。
Cai Ying-ke lamented that sometimes the feeling of the sacredness of a profession was something that needed to be experienced. This time, the sacrifice was there.
“都读过希波克拉底誓言的，这个工作就是应该挺身而出。
"I've all read the Hippocratic Oath, and that's the job to stand up for.
”她觉得，以前对这誓言的感觉是崇拜，现在她知道，这誓言是大家一步步“走”出来的。
She felt that the previous feeling for the oath was worship, and now she knew that it was a step-by-step "step by step".
救回病人就像把鱼放回水里缪晟昊决定去武汉，是因为不希望自己的职业生涯留下遗憾。
Saving a patient is like putting a fish back in water ShengHo decided to go to Wuhan because he did not want to leave his career regret.
这位麻醉科医生出生在一个医生大家庭：舅妈是心内科医生，做放射科医生的姐姐嫁给了一个口腔科医生，姑妈和表哥也是医生。
The anesthesiologist was born into a large family of doctors: aunt was a cardiologist, the sister of a radiologist married to a dentist, and aunt and cousin were also doctors.
因为医生常常要值班，每年春节全家人都很难聚齐。
Because doctors are often on duty, it is difficult for the whole family to get together every Spring Festival.
但他不记得医生长辈们抱怨过什么。
But he did not remember what the doctors' elders had complained about.
他喜欢当医生的成就感，特别是“当你把病情搞定的时候”。
He enjoys the sense of accomplishment of being a doctor, especially when you get it right.
每次完成插管，看着病人血氧饱和度升上去，他觉得“就像把鱼放回水里一样”。
Every time he finished the intubation and watched the patient's blood oxygen saturation rise, he felt "like putting the fish back into the water."
有关职业选择的答案是多样的。
The answers to career choices are diverse.
1996年出生的护士姚梦怡，是因为小时候看过一部电视剧《恶作剧之吻》，她被剧中护士授帽仪式的情节打动。
Yao Mengyi, a nurse born in 1996, was moved by the nurse's captivation when she watched a TV play "Mischief Kiss" as a child.
到武汉之前，作为急诊抢救室护士的姚梦怡就接诊过疑似新冠肺炎病人，第一次穿防护服，她感到“太害怕了”。
Before reaching Wuhan, Yao Mengyi, a nurse in the emergency room, was treated for a suspected new crown pneumonia patient and felt "too scared" to wear protective clothing for the first time.
但是增援武汉的报名通知下来的时候，她立即和一个朋友约好一起去武汉。
But when the registration notice came down to reinforce Wuhan, she immediately made an appointment with a friend to go to Wuhan.
呼吸科医生杜威从小对高祖留下的手写医书充满好奇，家人希望他能继承家族从医的传统。
Du Wei, a respiratory doctor, was curious about Gaozu's handwritten medical books since he was a child, and his family wanted him to inherit the family's tradition of medicine.
但这位90后开玩笑说，从医可能跟自己的“星座”有关，“对神秘的东西感兴趣”。
But the 90-year-old joked that being a doctor might have something to do with his "zodiac" and "an interest in mystical things."
2019年入职时，杜威就做好了思想准备，工作中随时可能遭遇不明原因的呼吸系统疾病。
When he took office in 2019, Dewey was mentally prepared to work with an unexplained respiratory illness at any time.
疫情迫使他取消了婚礼，他只是到岳父家“简单地走了一下”。
The outbreak forced him to cancel his wedding, and he went to his father-in-law's house "for a brief walk."
然后，他到了武汉。
Then he went to Wuhan.
这个职业永远被人需要在这场战“疫”中，朱畴文看到了年轻人成熟的一面。
This profession is always needed in this battle "epidemic," Zhu Yuwen saw the mature side of young people.
他对自己的大学同学评价说：“他们很优秀，有的很年轻，最年轻的工作才两年半，就过来了，但是我觉得这支队伍非常值得信赖。
"Some of them are very young and the youngest just two and a half years old," he told his college classmates. "But I think this team is very trustworthy.
”尽管医疗行业面临各种挑战和困难，但朱畴文更愿意向后辈讲医学的价值。
Despite the challenges and difficulties facing the medical profession, Zhu preferred to talk to future generations about the value of medicine.
“这个职业永远被人需要。
"This is a profession that is always in demand.
”他认为，虽然有关医患关系的极端案例不时出现，但这不是主流，“这些也不应该成为主流”。
He believes that although extreme cases of doctor-patient relationships occur from time to time, they are not mainstream and "these should not be mainstreamed."
董家鸿院士认为，虽然中国的医生处在一个不是那么理想的社会生态之中，但是他们仍然保持了“赤子之心”，“广大医务人员保持了基本的职业素养，那就是不能见死不救，这也是他们的使命”。
Although Chinese doctors live in a less-than-ideal social environment, they still maintain their "benevolent heart," according to Academician Dong Jiahong. "The vast majority of medical workers maintain basic professional qualities, that is, they must not die, which is their mission."
他已决定，在国家规定的补贴标准之上，多给本院一线医务人员一些补助。
He has decided to provide the Court's front-line medical staff with additional subsidies over and above those set by the State.
他期待着，经历这次疫情之后，国家和社会能更理解和尊重医生、关心医生，而不仅仅在抗击疫情的特殊时期才如此。
He expects the country and society to understand and respect doctors and care for doctors after the epidemic, not just in exceptional times of fighting the epidemic.
“全世界感激你们为找到最好的治疗办法和防止病毒蔓延所作的努力。
"The world appreciates your efforts to find the best treatment and to prevent the spread of the virus.
”世界卫生组织总干事谭德塞也在社交媒体上向中国的医务人员表达了敬意。
WHO Director-General Lindsay Tan also paid tribute to Chinese medical staff on social media.
2003年SARS疫情期间就为公众熟知的钟南山医生，如今已年过八旬。
Dr. Zhong Nan Shan, who was well known to the public during the SARS epidemic in 2003, is now over 80.
SARS过后，他有一个很大的遗憾：公众、政府部门以至媒体“对医务界的一些偏见没有改变”。
After SARS, he had a big regret: "Some of the prejudices against the medical profession have not changed" in the public, government and even the media.
他曾经感慨，不能SARS一走、汶川地震一过去，医生就从“白衣天使”变成“白衣狼”。
He once said that he could not SARS away, Wenchuan earthquake over, doctors from "white angel" to "white wolf."
这一次，他在受访时说：“我必须再次重申，我国绝大多数的医务人员，从来都是白衣天使，他们从未离开过这个名称。
This time, he said in the interview: "I must reiterate once again that the vast majority of our medical staff, who have never left the name, have always been white angels.
”他强调，从不同时期的表现看得出来，“我们从来没变”。
"We have never changed," he stressed, judging by performance at different points in time.
朱畴文则对记者说，年轻一代的医务人员不是一张白纸，而是“在一个高起点”上开启了人生。
Zhu told reporters that the younger generation of medical personnel is not a blank sheet of paper, but "a high starting point" on the start of life.
他已经想好，等到下一次再到武汉，不希望自己是受到特殊礼遇的医疗队员，只希望做一名普通的游客。
He has decided to wait until the next visit to Wuhan, do not want to be a special courtesy of the medical team, just want to be a normal tourist.
这一点，他跟很多年轻人达成了一致——那些在“热干面的故乡”救死扶伤无暇旁顾的年轻人，早已在社交网站上一次次表达过对武汉小吃的集体向往。
At this point, he reached agreement with many young people - those in the "home of hot and dry noodles" to save lives and injuries, has repeatedly expressed on social networking sites to Wuhan collective yearning for snacks.
中国青年报·中国青年网出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
China Youth Daily & amp; China Youth Net & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
发过誓的人。
A person who swears.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "发过誓的人";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; vow & quot;
var msg_desc = "在武汉";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; at Wuhan & quot;;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
