我在湖北艾滋患者求助热线接电话。
I'm on the Hubei AIDS Helpline.
小昼。
Daylight.
极昼工作室                      。
Daylight Studio.
极昼工作室。
Daylight Studio.
为坚持严肃阅读的人群提供选项。
Offer options for people who insist on serious reading.
搜狐新闻极昼工作室。
Sohu News Polar Daylight Studio.
。
.
肖超（右一）之前在社区做艾滋病和禁毒宣传。
Xiao Chao (first right) before doing AIDS and drug awareness in the community.
受访者供图摘要：肖超是艾滋患者缺药求助热线的接线员，在武汉同志中心宜昌分部工作。
Interviewee: Xiao Chao is the operator of the AIDS patients' drug-deficiency hotline and works in the Yichang branch of Wuhan gay center.
自疫情开始到3月初，他所在的武汉同志中心已经给800多名艾滋患者寄出超过7200盒药。
Since the outbreak began in early March, his Wuhan gay center has sent more than 7,200 boxes of medicine to more than 800 people suffering from AIDS.
武汉同志中心是一家成立于2011年，开展同志（LGBT）社群服务及公众教育的公益机构。
Wuhan Gay and Lesbian Center is a public welfare organization established in 2011 to carry out gay (LGBT) community services and public education.
在宜昌从事艾滋病公益工作四年多，肖超第一次接触这么多感染者——他们大多来自湖北，从二十几岁的学生到七八十岁的老人都有，有的只剩三四天的药，有的已经断药一两个月。
In Yichang more than four years of voluntary work, Xiao Chao first contact with so many infected people - most of them from Hubei, from twenty-something students to seventy-eight-year-olds, some with only three or four days of medicine, some with a month or two of treatment.
疫情压缩了他们的隐私空间，很多人挣扎在暴露病史、寻求帮助和断药危险之间。
The outbreak has reduced their privacy, with many struggling to expose their histories, seek help and be at risk of losing their medication.
文丨张楠茜编辑丨陶若谷“为什么要出去？”“封城”封路之后被问到这个问题，他们可能会回答“去打狂犬疫苗”，为了看起来逼真，有人甚至用刀给自己划伤一个小口子。
Asked why they went out into the city, the editor of the sect asked, "Why go out?" They might reply, "Go for a rabies vaccine," and sometimes cut themselves with a knife to look realistic.
也可能回答，得了慢性肾炎、糖尿病、高血压，要出去取药。
Can also answer, get chronic nephritis, diabetes, hypertension, to go out to get medicine.
借口找遍，唯独不会说出真相——得了艾滋病，不能断药。
Excuses look around, only will not tell the truth - AIDS, can not stop medicine.
据《湖北日报》、《长江日报》报道，截至2018年10月底，湖北有大约2万名艾滋病感染患者；截至2019年10月底，武汉有约6000名患者。
According to Hubei Daily and Changjiang Daily, by the end of October 2018, there were about 20,000 people living with AIDS in Hubei Province, and about 6,000 in Wuhan by the end of October 2019.
从2月下旬到现在，肖超的电话不停地响，他整天在客厅里坐着，平均每天接到求助电话超过100个（注：存在一名患者多次拨打电话的情况），登记艾滋患者缺药的信息。
From late February until now, Xiao Chao has been ringing on the phone, sitting in the living room all day, receiving on average more than 100 calls a day (note: there are multiple calls by a patient) to register information about AIDS patients' lack of medication.
他小心处理着电话那头的情绪。
He handled the mood on the other end of the telephone carefully.
患者大多语气焦急，有人平时就不在当地领药，熟人社会，亲朋好友在医疗疾控系统工作，容易引起闲言碎语，但去隔壁县市领药的路断了。
Most patients are anxious, some people do not usually get local medicine, acquaintances, friends and family in the medical disease control system, easy to cause gossip, but to the next county to get medicine broken.
也有态度淡然的老年患者，不好意思告诉家人，也不会用智能手机、信息闭塞，觉得已经一只脚迈进黄土，想过放弃。
There are also indifferent attitude of elderly patients, embarrassed to tell their families, will not use smartphones, information blocking, feel a foot into the loess, want to give up.
给患者做登记后，肖超的同事接着就去医院，给他们挂号、核实档案、领药，每天解决60到80人的需求。
After registering the patients, Xiao Chao's colleagues went to the hospital to register them, check their files, collect their medicines and meet the needs of 60 to 80 people every day.
邮寄时，他们把药外面包好几层，也没告诉快递员这药治什么病，再按时销毁求助者的信息。
When they mailed it, they took the extra loaf of bread several layers, did not tell the courier what the medicine was for, and destroyed the client's information on time.
以下是肖超的口述：肖超的同伴把从医院领回的药，在办公室里打包。
The following is Xiao Chao's dictation: Xiao Chao's companions took the medicine from the hospital and packed it in the office.
这是当天凌晨打包完拍的，有时为了早点寄出会通宵打包。
It was filmed in the early hours of the day, sometimes packed overnight to get an early post.
受访者供图断药我从来没接触过这么多艾滋患者，这段时间光手机里就加了一千多个微信好友，电话每天要打上百通。
I've never been in contact with so many people with AIDS. More than a thousand micro-letters and hundreds of phone calls a day have been added to my cell phone alone.
打电话会比较注意对方的情绪。
Callers pay more attention to each other's emotions.
接电话我问，“有什么需要帮助的？” 打过去核实信息会先问，“现在方便讲话吗？”很多患者没跟家里人讲，疫情期间待在一起，他们在电话那头会很小声，如果支支吾吾，我就会换个方式，一条条念给对方听，对方只用说“对”或“不对”，再不行就换个时间打。
Answer the phone I asked, Is there anything I can do for youCan I help youCan I help youCan I help youCan I help youCan I help you / What can I do for you / What can I do for you / What can I do for you / What can I do for you / What can I do for you / What can I do for you
有人接到电话后会立马挂掉，我就换短信文字沟通。
Some people will hang up immediately after receiving the phone call, I exchange text messages to communicate.
疫情开始之后，我们（武汉同志中心）开通了艾滋患者的求助热线，从1月26号到2月15号，主要提供咨询服务，告诉他们各级疾控中心最新的政策，特殊时期怎么异地取药。
Since the outbreak began, we (Wuhan Comrade Center) have set up a helpline for AIDS patients, which runs from January 26 to February 15.
求助者从二十几岁的学生到七八十岁的老人都有。
Clients range from twenty-something students to eighty-eight-year-olds.
有些住在偏僻的村里，想尽各种办法开到了通行证，可以出村，但路被挖断，或堆着大石头走不了，离最近的取药定点医院至少五六十公里的路，甚至想过走路，没办法，放弃了。
Some live in isolated villages and try their best to get permits to leave the village, but the roads are cut off or they are too big to walk, at least fifty or sixty kilometres from the nearest hospital to pick up the medicine, or even to walk and give up.
艾滋患者需要每天吃药，一旦停药，会有耐药的风险，根据个体差异，程度不同。
People with AIDS need to take medicine every day, once stopped, there will be a risk of drug resistance, depending on the degree of individual differences.
病人需要去医院做病毒载量检测才能知道，如果病毒载量持续为零，就说明没有耐药，但如果升到很高，这个药对病人就没有用了，需要换二线药或昂贵的自费药。
Patients need to go to a hospital for a viral load test to know that if the viral load remains zero, there is no resistance, but if elevated, the drug is no longer useful to the patient and requires a second-line or expensive self-medication.
另一方面，服药是为了抑制病毒在人体内的繁衍，停药期间，艾滋病毒会繁殖、复制，攻击人体免疫系统。
On the other hand, drugs are taken to suppress the reproduction of the virus in the body, during which HIV can reproduce, replicate and attack the human immune system.
当病人免疫力下降，一个小感冒都可能反反复复、不容易好，机会性感染的风险会增加，很多老人有基础性疾病，免疫力一旦下降，更加堪忧。
When a patient's immunity drops, a small cold may be repeated, not easy to good, the risk of opportunistic infections will increase, many elderly people have basic diseases, immune decline, even more worrying.
2月中旬，湖北各地的“封城”形势越来越严峻，很多艾滋患者都出不了小区，我们想到邮寄药物，能够帮助更多人，就联系上金银潭医院的爱心门诊，和我们的宜昌分部（宜昌同行社工中心）、武汉为先社工中心一起推出药物邮寄服务。
In mid-February, the situation in Hubei was becoming more and more serious. Many AIDS patients could not leave their communities. We thought of mailing drugs to help more people. We contacted Yichang Hospital's Loving Clinic and our Yichang branch (Yichang Peer Social Work Centre) and Wuhan to launch the Drug Mailing Service.
我们还组建了代领药物的志愿者车队，每天大概寄60-80份药，（每份）能管一个多月。
We have also set up a fleet of volunteer drug-collecting teams that deliver about 60 to 80 doses of medicine a day, each for more than a month.
去领药的同事早上7点起床，穿戴防护服、口罩、护目镜，开车到金银潭医院——武汉唯一的传染病医院，当地大多数艾滋患者都在这里治疗，现在成了新冠肺炎危重症患者最多的医院——给60多名艾滋患者挂号、核实档案、领药，一待就是一整天。
Get up at 7: 00 a.m., wear protective clothing, masks, goggles, and drive to Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, Wuhan's only hospital for infectious diseases, where most people with AIDS are treated and are now the most critically ill with Newcastle Pneumonia - register, document, and collect drugs for more than 60 AIDS patients for a full day.
志愿者在金银潭领药、核实、清点药物。
Volunteers collected, verified and counted drugs in the gold and silver pools.
受访者供图药品邮寄登记表（系统）在2月17号上线。
Respondents provided a copy of the registration form (system) for drug delivery on February 17.
我和另外一个同事负责接热线，和艾滋患者直接对接，还有两位同事负责汇总信息和邮寄地址。
Another co-worker and I answered the hotline, docked directly with AIDS patients, and two co-workers collected information and mailed addresses.
早上9点到晚上12点，我们就不断接电话，第二天打电话核实信息有没有填错。
From 9 a.m. to 12 p.m., we kept answering the phone and phoned the next day to make sure that the information had been filled in correctly.
每天手机铃声开到最大，电话从早到晚没停过，听得头痛，我几乎是天天都要换铃声。
Every day the phone rings the loudest, the phone never stops from morning till night, I hear headaches, I almost have to change the bell every day.
除了登记，还需要核实比对患者的信息和医院的档案，不能患者说要什么就寄什么。
In addition to registration, there is a need to verify patient information and hospital records and not to send what the patient asks for.
艾滋病遵循属地管理原则，如果不是在金银潭医院治疗的，患者需要原医院开一个函，再去金银潭医院领药。
AIDS follow the principle of territorial management, if not in the gold and silver pool hospital treatment, patients need to write a letter, and then go to gold and silver pool hospital to collect medicine.
有在别的医院治疗的患者担心领不到药，会故意说自己在金银潭医院治疗，但志愿者到医院，核实不到档案，就取不到药，其实浪费了时间。
Patients treated in other hospitals, fearing that they would not receive medication, deliberately said that they were being treated at the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, but when volunteers went to the hospital to verify that the files were not available, they were unable to get the drugs, which was a waste of time.
有人很着急，每天都来问好几次：“有没有登记我的信息？什么时候寄出的？多少天能到呢？” 我能理解他们的担心，会耐心告知，一般是三天内寄出，武汉市区一天左右到，湖北其他地方的五到八天能到，他们要给自己预留足够的时间。
Some people are very anxious to say several times every day: "Did register my message? When? How many days?" I can understand their fears, will patiently inform, usually within three days, Wuhan City District can arrive in about a day, Hubei other places five to eight days, they have to reserve enough time for themselves.
前段时间有个女孩来求助，填信息表的时候，她说自己忘了药物的名字，要去看看药瓶，后来再填，又错过了当天的时间，她特别着急。
Some time ago, when a girl came to fill out the information form, she said she had forgotten the name of the drug, wanted to see the bottle, then filled it in and missed the time of the day.
那天我们代领药物的志愿者通行证出了问题，被拦下，这个女孩还帮我们到处找车。
The day our volunteer pass for drugs broke down, was stopped, and the girl helped us find cars everywhere.
她几乎一整天不间断地给我打电话，催了好几次，我当时还有点纳闷，所有人都在排队着急等药，她为什么会这么急？最后她才告诉我，她是给爸爸领，她爸爸只剩三四天的药了，每天躺床上，半个月没下床，精神恍惚，叫他也不理人，她担心爸爸会想不开。
I wondered why she was in such a hurry, when everyone was queuing up for the medicine! Finally she told me that she was taking the medicine for her father, who had only three or four days left in bed every day, half a month in bed, half a month in a trance, and worried he wouldn't get over it.
她的信息当天没登记上，就没领到医院第二天的药，我们了解到她的情况之后，就找出应急药，寄给了她。
Her information was not registered the same day, the hospital did not receive the medicine the next day, we learned about her, we found emergency drugs, sent to her.
也有很多老人独自来求助。
There are also many elderly people coming to help alone.
最近几年，老年人患艾滋病的比例在升高。
The rate of AIDS among the elderly has increased in recent years.
和很多老年感染者通电话，最悲伤的是听到说，自己都一只脚迈进黄土了，这病丢人，不好意思告诉别人，家人不接受，该怎么样就怎么样吧，谢谢你们还来关心我这个“废人”。
And many elderly infected people on the phone, the saddest thing is to hear that they have one foot into the loess, this disease is humiliating, sorry to tell others, family do not accept, how do you do, thank you also care about my "scrap.
我以前没有接触到过老年艾滋患者，他们其实是特别需要理解和温暖的。
I've never been in contact with older people with AIDS before. They really need to understand and be warm.
很多人不会用智能手机，不知道怎么求助，只能找医院，医院再把我们的联系方式告诉他们，他们再找我们。
Many people do not use smartphones, do not know how to ask for help, can only go to the hospital, the hospital will tell them our contact information, they will look for us.
有的老人家只会说方言，表达很费劲。
Some old people only speak dialects and it is very difficult to express them.
平时只需要十分钟登记的信息，可能我得花半小时，一遍遍地问，把每个字都确定好，有的老人听到我没听清某个字，急得像孩子一样，不断提高音量，重复说。
Usually it only takes ten minutes to register. Maybe I'll spend half an hour asking over and over again, making sure that every word is right.
有老人打电话过来，说自己一个人住，能不能帮忙送药，语气小心翼翼的。
Some old people called to say that they live alone, can help deliver medicine, the tone of caution.
还有老人淡淡地说已经断药十几天、一个月了，我会着急地说为什么不早点寻求帮助，说出口就后悔了——他们去哪里寻求帮助？在我们看来没做多了不起的事情，但他们会特别感动，通过微信或者电话传达过来感谢。
And the old man said lightly that he had been out of medicine for ten days, a month, and I would say anxiously why I had not asked for help sooner, saying that I regretted where they had gone for help.
有个60多岁的女士找到我们的时候，在电话里都要急哭了，她说，自己腿脚不方便，下不了楼，只剩一两天的药了，“救救我”。
When a woman in her sixties found us, she had to cry on the phone. She said she could not get off the stairs and had only a day or two of medicine left.
后来拿到药，她的感谢用词会很重，说“救命恩人”这种话。
Later, when she got the medicine, she would use the word "lifesaver" very heavily.
后来我发朋友圈，她还经常点赞。
Later I sent out friends, she often praised.
最近我看她状态不错了，武汉市前段时间团购蔬菜，她还发朋友圈，一个小推车的图片，去团购了。
Recently I think she is in good shape, Wuhan city some time ago group to buy vegetables, she also sent friends circle, a trolley pictures, to buy a group.
还遇到过一个中年男性艾滋患者，我按常规流程和他沟通、填表，也没有更多交流，只知道他是开公司的。
I also met a middle-aged male AIDS sufferer, with whom I communicated, filled out forms, and did not communicate much more, knowing only that he owned a company.
但有一次我朋友圈发了一个缺乏物资的状态，他突然联系我，说他公司里还有几瓶酒精，可以寄给我们。
But one time my friend sent me a shortage of supplies, and he suddenly contacted me and said that he had a few bottles of alcohol in his company that he could send to us.
后来我们遇到突发情况，耽搁了第二天领药，虽然这大哥的药已经在前一天领出来了，他不受影响，但还是很激动，担心别的感染者的药怎么办，帮我们打各种热线电话，还说要捐款。
Then we had a sudden situation, delayed the next day to get the medicine, although the eldest brother's medicine had been brought out the previous day, he was still very excited, worried about other infected people's medicine do, help us call various hotlines, and said to donate money.
他收到药之后，又给我发了满屏的微信语音，说拿到快递，一路上边走边哭。
After he received the medicine, he sent me a screen full of microphone voice, said to get express, along the way while crying.
他家人是知道他得病的，看到我们寄来药，也一起哭。
His family knew that he was ill and cried together when they saw the medicine we had sent him.
送药志愿者吃午餐。
Send medicine to volunteer for lunch.
受访者供图需要有人关注少数群体艾滋病已经属于可控可防的慢性病，通过药物治疗，患者和正常人是一样生活的，但我们做过一个调查，如果在白血病和艾滋病之间选，更多人（宁可）选患白血病。
Respondents wanted to draw attention to the fact that HIV / AIDS among minorities is already a preventable chronic disease, and that patients and normal people live the same way through medication, but we did a survey that found that if you choose between leukaemia and AIDS, more people will choose leukaemia.
艾滋病三个传播途径之一是性传播，反歧视做这么多年了，还是有污名化。
One of the three modes of transmission of AIDS is sexual transmission, and anti-discrimination has been stigmatized for so many years.
之前有患者说，不仅是怕人知道了会歧视自己，更怕他们给予特别的关心。
Some patients said before, is not only afraid that people know will discriminate against themselves, but also afraid they give special attention.
比如同住一个寝室里，他们不赶艾滋患者走，但都一个个搬走，最后就剩艾滋患者一个人住，他们说，你看我们没有歧视你，我们自己搬走了，但其实艾滋患者需要的是平常对待。
For example, living in the same dormitory, they do not drive AIDS patients away, but all of them moved away, finally left AIDS patients living alone, they said, you see we did not discriminate against you, we moved away ourselves, but AIDS patients need to be treated as usual.
所以很多患者不会在当地领药，地方小，甚至有亲朋好友在医疗疾控系统工作的，很容易引起闲言碎语，他们会去隔壁县市领药。
So a lot of patients will not be local medicine, small places, or even family and friends working in the medical disease control system, it is easy to cause gossip, they will go to the next county to get medicine.
这次疫情更压缩了艾滋患者的隐私空间。
The outbreak has further reduced the privacy of people living with AIDS.
有人为了找车出去领药，打了各种电话，甚至包括110，但警察也很忙，后来终于遇到一辆车要出去，没想到他亲戚碰巧就在车上，是出去紧急应援的医生，他搭上了这个车，却得瞒着亲戚。
The police were also very busy. Finally, they came across a car that was going out. It happened that his relatives happened to be on the bus.
我们帮助艾滋患者寄药，从接线到领药到寄包裹，每一个环节的工作人员和志愿者都签了隐私保密协议，大家接触到的信息都有分级，一旦泄露会承担法律责任，另外，表单信息、快递信息，每天会即时销毁。
We help people with AIDS send drugs, from wiring to collecting medicines to sending parcels. Privacy protocols are signed by staff and volunteers at every link of the chain. Information is graded and people are held legally accountable for leaks. In addition, forms and courier messages are destroyed instantly on a daily basis.
打包好的快递，邮寄时志愿者把药外面包好几层，也没告诉快递员药治什么病，再按时销毁求助者的信息。
Packed express, the volunteers post the outside of the bread several layers, also did not tell the courier what to treat the disease, and destroy the information on time.
受访者供图我们也想到，很多人去取药需要接受不情愿的询问，甚至泄露隐私，他们心理上可能也会受到创伤，之后生活怎么继续？所以也开通了心理热线。
It also occurred to us that many people need to undergo reluctant questioning or even give away their privacy to get their medicine. They may also suffer psychological trauma and how their lives will continue after that.
但心理热线的成效没有领药这边好。
But the effectiveness of the psychological hotline is not as good as the drug side.
如果有一些精神障碍了，他们可能去寻求专业的帮助，但目前很多只是严重焦虑，他们觉得聊聊，解决不了问题，不如直接寄药来得实际。
If they have some mental disorders, they may seek professional help, but many of them are just so anxious these days that they find it more practical to talk and not solve the problem than to send the medicine directly.
像我们有一位心理咨询师说的，问对方要不要来心理咨询，会让他们产生“我又没病”的防御心态，所以我们也在反思和调整心理咨询热线的工作。
As one of our counselors put it, asking someone if they want counseling can help them develop a "I'm not sick" defense mentality, so we're also rethinking and adjusting the counseling hotline.
我以前是学医的，大学期间也在做艾滋感染相关的社群工作，2018年毕业后，就进了武汉同志中心宜昌分部工作，全职做艾滋检测和预防宣传的工作。
After graduating in 2018, I joined the Yichang branch of Wuhan Gay Center to work full-time on HIV testing and prevention.
在小地方推广这方面的工作挺难的，有些艾滋患者宁愿加全国的微信群，也不愿意在任何本地群露脸。
It is difficult to spread the message in small areas, with some people living with AIDS preferring to join the national microcosm rather than show up in any local community.
有的患者去取药，帽子、口罩、墨镜全副武装，很怕被认出来。
Some patients to get medicine, hats, masks, sunglasses are armed, very afraid to be recognized.
还有的人一听我是做艾滋病工作的，下意识身体都往后退一步。
There are people who listen to me do AIDS work, the subconscious body is a step back.
最开始宜昌分部只有我一个人，现在有五个人的团队，除了与艾滋患者有关的工作，还涉及性教育、青少年禁毒教育、女童性侵保护等领域，和政府部门有一些联动。
At first, I was the only one in Yichang Division. Now I have a team of five people working with AIDS patients, including sex education, drug education for young people, protection against sexual abuse of girls, and a number of government departments.
我也曾经因为这份工作遭遇过歧视和驱逐。
I have also experienced discrimination and expulsion because of this job.
2019年的春天，我们在小区摆摊宣传艾滋预防、检测的知识，小区和街道的工作人员是认可我们的，但有个业主看到，就在业主群里发了，一下子来了几十个业主，围住我们，还找来警察，找来七八十岁的老太太给我们讲道理，要让我们搬走。
In the spring of 2019, we spread the message of AIDS prevention and detection in our neighbourhood. The neighborhood and street workers approved of us, but one of the owners saw it coming. Dozens of owners came along and surrounded us.
他们觉得艾滋病是肮脏的，还会影响小区房价。
They feel that AIDS is dirty, but also affect the housing estate.
我家里人也不太理解，从小学习好、听话的一个孩子，为什么学医毕业找了这么一个工作？现在我父母在尽量接纳我，但老家总有亲戚问，“超超现在找了什么工作？” 我妈还是会不好意思说，就打马虎眼说，“好像是做什么志愿者，搞不懂”。
Now my parents are trying to accept me, but there are always relatives in my hometown asking, "What kind of job are you looking for now?" My mother would still say shyly, "It's like being a volunteer, don't understand."
需要有人关注少数群体，给他们信心。
Attention to minorities is needed to give them confidence.
我记得有一次，在外出差坐火车遇到一个朋友，和他聊到艾滋相关的知识，我说话会有些大声，而且越说越来劲，后来旁边围了好几个陌生人都在很认真地听我讲，认知到一些知识，那时候会感受到这份工作的意义。
I remember meeting a friend on a train on a business trip and talking to him about AIDS. I spoke a little louder and harder, and then a few strangers standing next to me listened to me attentively and realized what the job meant.
这次疫情，让所有人都更加惜命了。
This outbreak has made everyone even more desperate.
快要断药的艾滋患者遭遇了危机，每个人都经历了复杂的心路历程，之后会更加注意生活中的很多细节，包括出门在外也可以多备点药。
AIDS patients on the verge of a crisis, everyone has gone through a complex journey, will pay more attention to the details of life, including out-of-home can also be more prepared.
后台回复"读者群",加入更多讨论。
Back-office reply & quot; & quot; & quot; joined in more discussion.
小昼。
Daylight.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
已喜欢，对作者说句悄悄话。
Like it, whisper to the author.
发送给作者。
Send to author.
最多40字，当前共字。
Up to 40 words, currently in common.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
我在湖北艾滋患者求助热线接电话。
I'm on the Hubei AIDS Helpline.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "极昼工作室";。
Var nickname = & quot; daytime studio & quot;;
var msg_title = "我在湖北艾滋患者求助热线接电话";。
var msg _ title = & quot; I answered & quot; & quot; at & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "被忽视与被温暖。
var msg _ desc = & quot; ignored and warm.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="极昼工作室";。
var title = & quot; day studio & quot;;
