回国之前，她们记录了疫情之下伊朗街头的生活。
Before returning home, they documented life on the streets of Iran in the face of the epidemic.
小昼。
Daylight.
极昼工作室                      。
Daylight Studio.
极昼工作室。
Daylight Studio.
为坚持严肃阅读的人群提供选项。
Offer options for people who insist on serious reading.
搜狐新闻极昼工作室。
Sohu News Polar Daylight Studio.
。
.
苏非客（左一）和她的同学。
Sophie (first left) and her classmates.
受访者供图摘要：苏非客刚刚从德黑兰大学艺术系毕业，经历了伊朗新冠肺炎疫情蔓延的过程；伊朗疫情扩大后，她和同学走上街头，拍下了疫情中伊朗的街头生活。
Sufek, who has just graduated from the Faculty of Arts at Tehran University, experienced the spread of pneumonia in Iran, where she and her classmates took to the streets to take pictures of Iranian street life in the wake of the outbreak.
文丨格布编辑丨林鹏3月4日14时许，苏非客乘坐的由伊朗首都德黑兰直飞兰州的航班，降落在兰州中川国际机场。
Sufi passengers take a non-stop flight from Tehran to Lanzhou when they arrive at Zhongchuan International Airport, Lanzhou, March 4, 2008.
接下来，她将在兰州新区后备医院进行集中留观。
Next, she will be in Lanzhou New District Reserve Hospital for a focused visit.
苏非客在伊朗留学3年，近期因为伊朗疫情扩大选择回国。
He studied in Iran for three years and recently returned home due to the expanding Iranian epidemic.
一切都好像是突然发生的。
Everything seems to have come about suddenly.
2月16日，苏非客在德黑兰大学艺术系完成了硕士课程，留校等发毕业证。
On 16 February, Sufi completed a master's programme at the Faculty of Arts of the University of Tehran, where he stayed until his graduation certificate was issued.
3天之后，伊朗境内首次出现新冠肺炎确诊病例。
Three days later, there was the first confirmed case of new crown pneumonia in Iran.
此后，疫情迅速发展，伊朗卫生部3月11日宣布，过去一天伊朗境内新增新冠肺炎感染者958例，累计9000例，累计死亡354例。
Since then, the epidemic has developed rapidly, with the Ministry of Health announcing on March 11 that 958 new cases of pneumonia have been reported in Iran in the past day, with a cumulative total of 9,000 cases and 354 deaths.
伊朗卫生部已宣布启动国家动员计划，加强疫情防控。
The Iranian Ministry of Health has announced the launch of a national mobilization plan to strengthen epidemic prevention and control.
苏非客和她的同学见证了伊朗疫情的迅速发展。
Sufi and her classmates witnessed the rapid advance of the Iranian epidemic.
起初人们的态度“非常淡定”，在一些人群聚集又相对封闭的公共场所，大多数伊朗人也没有戴口罩。
Attitudes were "very calm" at first, and most Iranians were not wearing masks in public places where crowds were concentrated and relatively closed.
直到2月25日，伊朗卫生部副部长Iraj Harirchi被证实确诊新冠肺炎。
Until 25 February, Iran's Deputy Minister of Health, Iraj Hairchi, was confirmed as having pneumonia.
此后，包括他在内的多名政府高官相继确诊，甚至有人因患新冠肺炎去世。
Since then, a number of senior government officials, including him, have been diagnosed, and even died of pneumonia.
她意识到有必要把人们的处境和面对疫情的态度记录下来。
She was aware of the need to document the situation of people and their attitudes towards the epidemic.
2月26日，她和两位朋友走出宿舍，开始在德黑兰街头拍摄视频。
On 26 February, she and two friends walked out of the dorm and began filming videos on the streets of Tehran.
为了遏制疫情蔓延，伊朗正在采取一系列措施：将中国诊疗方案翻译成波斯语向公众发布、全国所有学校停学、取消包括婚礼和葬礼在内的一切集会、在公共场所实施体温监测、组织30万支小组开展全国性入户排查……以下为苏非客口述：政要感染后引起重视我是2017年6月去的伊朗，先在一个语言学校学习波斯语，8个月之后，开始在德黑兰大学艺术系电影导演专业攻读硕士。
In order to contain the spread of the epidemic, Iran is taking a series of measures: translating Chinese diagnostic and treatment programmes into Persian for public distribution, suspending all schools in the country, cancelling all gatherings, including weddings and funerals, conducting temperature monitoring in public places, organizing 300,000 teams to conduct nationwide house searches.
2月16日，我完成了硕士课程，留校等发毕业证。
On February 16, I finished my master's degree and stayed at school to issue my diploma.
刚毕业三天，2月19日，就有消息说（伊朗）出现新冠肺炎确诊病例，那时候我还没来得及拿毕业证。
Just three days after graduation, on February 19th, word came that there had been a confirmed case of New Crown Pneumonia, before I could get my diploma.
我们宿舍之前已经备了一些N95口罩，新闻出来当天我们又马上去药店买了300多个医用口罩。
We had some N95 masks in our dorm, and we went to the drugstore on the same day to buy more than 300 medical masks.
先是伊朗中部城市库姆有两个病例，那边的学校就先停课了。
First came two cases in the central Iranian city of Qom, where schools were closed first.
第二天，德黑兰所有学校也都放假了。
The following day, all schools in Tehran were closed.
以往正常情况下，伊朗学校的放假时间是在诺鲁孜节，就是伊朗的新年，从阳历3月中下旬开始，放假15天。
Normally, Iranian schools were closed on Nowruz, the Iranian New Year, starting in the second half of March, with a 15-day holiday.
但是今年因为疫情，学校现在全都放假了。
But this year, schools are all closed because of the epidemic.
伊朗人普遍对这件事不是很在意，大家的态度都是，这只是一种流感。
Iranians generally don't care much about this, and the attitude is that it's just a flu.
我觉得伊朗人对所有突然降临的灾难跟对战争的态度是一样的，他们的性格很淡定。
I think the Iranians have the same attitude to all sudden catastrophes as they do to war, and their personalities are very undecided.
我劝他们要注意疫情的时候，只有一两个我经常交流的伊朗朋友，稍微意识到这件事的严重性。
When I advised them to watch out for the outbreak, only one or two of my Iranian friends, who I talked to regularly, were slightly aware of the seriousness of the matter.
其他大部分人会回答，“好的好的，我会注意的。
Most of the other people would reply, "All right, I'll pay attention.
”然后还是没有重视。
"And then he didn't pay attention.
伊朗8000多万人口，有约1000万都住在德黑兰，人口非常密集。
Iran has a population of more than 80 million, about 10 million of whom live in Tehran and are very densely populated.
德黑兰现在应该是疫情最严重的地方。
Tehran should now be the worst place to be.
（编者注：3月4日，伊朗总统鲁哈尼表态称，“新冠肺炎疫情已几乎影响到伊朗所有省份”。
(Editor's Note: On March 4, Iranian President Hassan Rouhani declared that "the outbreak of pneumonia has affected almost all Iranian provinces."
）但最开始伊朗关于疫情的宣传力度不是很大，刚出现确诊病例的时候，鲁哈尼还出来说，“一定不要让敌人渗透我们”。
But Iran's initial campaign against the epidemic was modest, with Rouhani saying, "Do not let the enemy infiltrate us," just as confirmed cases appeared.
很多人连病毒的基本信息都不清楚，误认为它只是一个流感。
Many people don't even know the basic information about the virus, mistaking it for a flu.
直到一些政府高层的人被感染之后，才开始有人重视这件事。
It wasn't until a few people at the top of the government got infected that someone began to take the issue seriously.
伊朗人获取疫情信息的方式普遍是刷Ins（Instagram，一种移动社交应用），或者看新闻。
The way Iranians get information about the epidemic is often by brushing Inns (a mobile social application) or watching the news.
懂英语的伊朗人主要会关注西方媒体报道了什么，但疫情方面的新闻其实是中国跟进得比较快一些。
English-speaking Iranians tend to focus on what the Western press reports, but the news about the epidemic is that China is following it up faster.
所以十几天以前，有波斯语专业的中国学生自发组织了一个翻译小组，很多伊朗学生以及学者也在里面。
So a dozen days ago, a group of Persian-speaking Chinese students spontaneously organized a translation team that included many Iranian students as well as academics.
这个小组主要就是把关于新冠病毒和防疫的中文信息翻译成波斯文，再发给伊朗的新闻媒体，让他们去发布。
The team mainly translated Chinese information on the new crown virus and epidemic prevention into Persian and sent it to the Iranian news media for distribution.
这样伊朗人能够更快地了解这个病毒是什么。
That way Iranians will be able to understand the virus more quickly.
我觉得那个翻译小组做这个事情挺有意义的，因为伊朗人最初的淡定主要是因为对这个病毒没有足够的了解。
I think it makes sense for the translation team to do this, because the Iranians were initially apathetic mainly because they did not know enough about the virus.
德黑兰街头的擦车少年。
A car cleaner on the street in Tehran.
受访者供图留学生宿舍伊朗疫情爆发之后，韩国学生几乎是第一时间就走了。
South Korean students left almost immediately after the outbreak of the Iranian outbreak.
2月28号左右，土耳其政府把所有在德黑兰的留学生都接回去了，亚美尼亚的学生也很快走光了。
Around February 28, the Turkish government took back all the students in Tehran, and Armenian students soon left.
中国驻伊朗大使馆也已经发布了信息，提醒中国人尽量不要出门。
The Chinese embassy in Iran has also issued a message reminding Chinese people not to go out.
当时除阿塞拜疆外，伊朗的其余6个陆上邻国均已关闭边境，多个国家禁止航班往来伊朗。
At the time, Iran's six remaining land neighbours, with the exception of Azerbaijan, had closed their borders and several countries banned flights to and from Iran.
我们学校里总共五栋宿舍楼，伊朗学生的宿舍已经全部清空了。
There are five dormitories in our school, and all the dormitories for Iranian students have been emptied.
我们留学生单独住一栋楼。
We students live in a single building.
我的室友是一个刚来的俄罗斯人，她刚到学校第二天伊朗就出现疫情了。
My roommate, a newcomer from Russia, had an outbreak in Iran the day after she arrived at school.
因为她有近期旅行史，我只好避开，住在别的房间里。
Because of her recent travel history, I had to avoid living in another room.
过了一个星期，疫情迅速扩散，她就毫不犹豫买机票走了。
After a week, the epidemic spread rapidly, she did not hesitate to buy air tickets to leave.
我们那栋楼还有一些滞留的留学生。
There are still some students staying in our building.
比如我隔壁的一个巴基斯坦姑娘，因为她在咳嗽，所以我不太敢跟她说话。
Like a Pakistani girl next door who coughed, so I didn't dare to talk to her.
我走的时候有问她，“你们国家现在怎么样？”她说巴基斯坦政府让他们在原处呆着，现在没有办法回国。
When I left, I asked her, "How's your country?" She said the Pakistani government had left them where they were and was unable to return.
还有一位巴勒斯坦的姑娘，她回不去，用她自己的话说是，“在谷歌地图上已经找不到巴勒斯坦了，家人也全都搬到了叙利亚”。
There was also a Palestinian girl who couldn't go back and, in her own words, "no more Palestinians on Google Maps and all her family moved to Syria."
但是叙利亚现在也是“难民国”，所以她必须自己面对。
But Syria is also a "refugee nation" now, so she must face it for herself.
我们同一楼层的叙利亚人也都没有回家，都是在外面朋友家借宿着。
None of our Syrians on the same floor went home, but stayed outside with friends.
在伊朗疫情爆发之前，这位巴勒斯坦姑娘还专门来找过我，她说，“你们中国人都很聪明，这次疫情对你们来说是个打击，但是你们一定要坚强地度过去。
Before the outbreak of the Iranian epidemic, the Palestinian girl came to me and said, "You Chinese are very intelligent, this epidemic is a blow to you, but you must be strong enough to get through it.
”然后还说，“中国人都很有人情味，希望你们加油。
"And then he said," The Chinese people are very humane.
”说完她自己哭了。
"And she wept herself.
疫情爆发之后我也很担心她，给她送了一些口罩，也给其他的留学生送了口罩。
I was also worried about her after the outbreak. I gave her some masks and other foreign students.
我告诉她已经买不到口罩了，自己在这边要注意安全。
I told her she couldn't buy a mask and I wanted to be safe.
后来我见过她一次，戴着口罩从外面回来，提了20多个袋子，里面装着蔬菜什么的。
I saw her once, come back from outside wearing a mask, took more than 20 bags containing vegetables and so on.
然后我就没再见过她出门了。
And then I never saw her go out again.
3月4日，我们走的时候，宿舍几乎都空了。
By the time we left on March 4, the dormitory was almost empty.
当时只剩下我们几个中国人，一个巴基斯坦人，一个巴勒斯坦人，几个叙利亚人和伊拉克人。
We were left with only a few Chinese, a Pakistani, a Palestinian, a few Syrians and Iraqis.
德黑兰瓦里亚斯环岛。
Varyas roundabout, Tehran.
受访者供图街头拍摄2月26号那天，我和朋友去超市买东西，看见伊朗人还在大街上晃荡，不戴口罩，还是该吃吃该喝喝。
On February 26, my friends and I went to the supermarket to do some shopping and saw the Iranians still wandering the streets, not wearing masks, or eating and drinking.
我意识到可能很多伊朗人没有太注意到新冠病毒这件事。
I realize that maybe a lot of Iranians aren't paying much attention to the new crown virus.
我想知道他们是怎么想的，觉得有必要去拍一些东西。
I want to know what they think and feel the need to take some pictures.
第二天我们就出去拍摄了。
The next day we went out to shoot.
我和两个朋友一起，她们一个是学哲学的，一个是学西班牙语的。
I was with two friends, one of whom studied philosophy and the other Spanish.
中国人在那儿学电影的只有我一个人，没有别的拍摄队友。
I was the only one in China who studied movies, and I had no other teammates.
所以按我们的计划，我主要是拿单反相机拍摄，她们其中一人是用手机拍竖屏画面，这是为了抖音播放，另一个人是用手机拍横屏。
So according to our plan, I was shooting mainly with a single-camera camera, and one of them was filming a screen with a cell phone to shake it off and the other with a cell phone.
我们开着车出去，起初不敢下车。
We drove out and were afraid to get off at first.
只拍了一些街头素材，也在德黑兰大学宿舍旁边比较火的ASP商城取了一些景。
Only some street material was filmed, and some views were taken at the popular ASP Mall next to the University of Tehran dormitory.
我们拍完发出去之后，许多人觉得挺有意思的。
A lot of people find it interesting after we shoot and send it out.
所以我们打算29号冒险进一步拍摄。
So we plan on venturing out 29 for further filming.
清真寺是人群聚集的地方，但摄像机不能进去。
Mosques are places where people congregate, but cameras are not allowed in.
所以我们最终选择了超市、商城、药店，以及一个街道拐口，在那里有一群阿富汗的难民小朋友。
So we ended up choosing a supermarket, a mall, a drugstore, and a street corner where there was a group of Afghan refugee children.
当时看起来，德黑兰的物价尚未受到疫情冲击。
At the time, it seemed that Tehran's prices had not been hit by the epidemic.
伊朗的物价在疫情之前就涨了好多次，主要是因为国际制裁的影响。
Prices in Iran rose many times before the outbreak, largely because of the impact of international sanctions.
在商店里，我们看到伊朗人都没有戴口罩，问他们为什么不戴口罩？他们的观念是，只有已经生病的人才戴口罩。
At the store, we saw Iranians wearing no masks and asked why they were not wearing masks. The idea was that only those who were already sick were wearing masks.
还有的人会觉得，戴多了口罩，呼吸系统会受影响，病毒会滋生在口罩里面，所以更危险。
Some people think wearing a mask will affect the respiratory system, and the virus will grow inside the mask, so it is more dangerous.
也有人说根本买不到口罩，所以就不戴了。
Others said they couldn't buy masks at all, so they stopped wearing them.
总之特别淡定。
In short, very calm.
德黑兰街头戴口罩的儿童。
Children wearing masks on the streets of Tehran.
受访者供图。
Supplied by respondents.
那些阿富汗的难民小朋友，我之前也经常接触的。
Those refugee kids from afghanistan, I've been in touch with them a lot.
因为每天开车从宿舍去学校，都会经过那个路口，那是他们的地盘——靠为路过的车辆迅速擦车，获得一点小费。
Because every day from the dormitory to school, will pass that intersection, that is their turf - for passing vehicles quickly scrub the car, get a little tip.
他们每次看见我的车经过，都会来给我擦车，可能看见我是外国人，比较容易要到钱。
Every time they see my car passing by, they come to wipe my car. They may see me as a foreigner and it is easier to get money.
每次我都会给他们一些面包，或者小首饰。
Every time I give them some bread or jewelry.
他们是跟着父母和很多兄弟姐妹一起，从阿富汗赫拉特那边到的马什哈德（编者注：伊朗第二大城市），据说是走路越境过来的。
They had followed their parents and many siblings from Herat, Afghanistan, to Mashhad (editor's note: Iran's second-largest city), said to have crossed the border on foot.
然后一路到德黑兰，住在德黑兰南部。
Then all the way to Tehran and live in southern Tehran.
擦车的路口是市中心，所以他们每天得坐两小时地铁来这里。
The intersection is downtown, so they have to take the two-hour subway to get here every day.
那些小朋友没有什么很好的防护措施，我们拍摄时，他们戴着不知道用了多少次的N95口罩，我们看不到他们的脸，也捕捉不到表情。
The kids didn't have much protection. When we were filming, they were wearing N95 masks that we didn't know how many times they were using. We couldn't see their faces and we couldn't catch the expressions.
他们好像有规矩，一个人擦一辆车，不会彼此抢活儿，擦一辆车能获得约0.5元人民币，一个孩子一天的收入折合人民币约15元。
They seem to have a rule of thumb: a man wiping a car, not fighting each other, getting about RMB0.50 for cleaning a car, and about RMB 15 a day for a child.
在视频里，我问他们，战争和病毒哪个更可害怕，他们说战争。
In the video, I ask them which war and virus are more afraid of, they say war.
我想，他们可能哪个都怕，哪个又都不怕，因为他们小小的年龄，对这些都没有什么概念。
They are afraid of either, I suppose, or any of them, because they have no idea of these things because of their age.
他们只知道哪个地方不危险，便去哪里，哪里有馕就去哪里。
They only knew where there was no danger, where there was naan.
我们出去拍摄的时候是很小心的，戴了双层口罩，车上放了消毒水、免洗酒精，还有一次性手套。
We were careful when we went out to shoot, wearing a double mask with disinfectant, alcohol-free and disposable gloves.
我们还戴着帽子、太阳眼镜。
We also wear hats and sunglasses.
看到我们这幅样子，当地人很好奇，可能也有一点害怕，但是他们不会表现出来。
The locals are curious and probably a little bit afraid to see us like this, but they don't show it.
伊朗人觉得表现出害怕是不尊重对方。
Iranians feel fear is disrespect for each other.
他们心里可能有点害怕，第一因为我们是中国人，第二是我们这样武装他们以为我们可能病了。
They might be a little scared, first because we're Chinese, and secondly because we armed them like this because they thought we might be sick.
总的来说，伊朗人对中国人还是比较友好的，但也有的人会挺不礼貌的，直接叫你“病毒，病毒”。
Generally speaking, Iranians are friendly to the Chinese, but some people will be very impolite, directly call you "virus, virus."
我们就很生气，反问他们，“为什么不戴口罩呢？”他们就笑笑说，“我们又没病”。
We became angry and asked them, "Why don't we wear masks?" They laughed and said, "We're not sick."
然后会刻意跟我们保持距离。
And then keep us at arm's length.
3月4日，德黑兰机场，有人穿起了防护服。
On 4 March, protective clothing was put on at Tehran airport.
受访者供图3月4日14时许，我和其他一些中国公民乘机从伊朗飞抵兰州。
The interviewee showed that on March 4 at about 1400 hours, I and some other Chinese citizens flew to Lanzhou from Iran.
入境之后，我们前往后备医院隔离。
After entering the country, we went to the reserve hospital for isolation.
我住的房间宽敞明亮，桌上摆着一个玻璃花瓶，插满明艳的雏菊。
My room was spacious and bright, and on the table was a glass vase filled with bright daisies.
窗台上有两盆绿植，从窗口能望见夕阳，大楼附近停着几辆救护车。
Two pots of green plants were planted on the windowsill, the setting sun could be seen through the window, and several ambulances were parked near the building.
回来之后也会很担心伊朗的情况，第一是有很多朋友在那里，第二是在那个国家待了那么久已经有感情了，第三是也会涉及到留学生自己的问题。
The first is that there are a lot of friends there, the second is that they have been in that country for so long that they have feelings, and the third is that they will be concerned with the problems of the students themselves.
课业的停滞，对很多留学生来说是一个打击。
The stagnation of schoolwork is a blow to many foreign students.
对我来说还好，因为我已经毕业了。
It's okay for me, 'cause I've graduated.
不过疫情之后还要去拿毕业证，大概要一个月时间才能完成各种认证。
However, after the outbreak to get a diploma, it will take about a month to complete the various certification.
离开伊朗之前，我听说大部分当地企业都已经停工了，但小卖部、超市都还在营业。
Before I left Iran, I heard that most of the local businesses had stopped working, but the commissary and the supermarket were still open.
听说我们班当地一个同学的舅舅也已经感染了，现在大家都挺恐慌的。
It is said that the uncle of a local classmate in our class has also been infected, and now everyone is quite frightened.
但还是尽可能不表现出来。
But try not to show it.
这种情感很复杂吧，就是既淡定又担忧的感觉。
This emotion is very complex, is both calm and worried feelings.
他们民族的性格会是这样一个状态，不愿夸张地表现自己的担忧，更愿意把自己的喜悦表达出来。
Their national character will be such a state, do not want to exaggerate their concerns, more willing to express their joy.
（应采访对象要求，苏非客为化名）后台回复"读者群",加入更多讨论。
(At the request of the interviewee, Sufei guest is a pseudonym) Background & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; joined in more discussion.
小昼。
Daylight.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
已喜欢，对作者说句悄悄话。
Like it, whisper to the author.
发送给作者。
Send to author.
最多40字，当前共字。
Up to 40 words, currently in common.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
回国之前，她们记录了疫情之下伊朗街头的生活。
Before returning home, they documented life on the streets of Iran in the face of the epidemic.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "极昼工作室";。
Var nickname = & quot; daytime studio & quot;;
var msg_title = "回国之前，她们记录了疫情之下伊朗街头的生活";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Before returning home, they documented life and quot;; in Iran's streets with the epidemic.
var msg_desc = "他们的观念是，只有已经生病的人才戴口罩。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Their idea was that only those who were sick were wearing masks.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="极昼工作室";。
var title = & quot; day studio & quot;;
