亲历意大利“封国”。
Experience Italy's "Seal".
小昼。
Daylight.
极昼工作室                      。
Daylight Studio.
极昼工作室。
Daylight Studio.
为坚持严肃阅读的人群提供选项。
Offer options for people who insist on serious reading.
搜狐新闻极昼工作室。
Sohu News Polar Daylight Studio.
。
.
摘要：当地时间3月8日凌晨，意大利政府发布紧急法令，除工作、健康原因及特殊状况，禁止出入伦巴第大区和其他14个省，暂停体育赛事，关闭学校、博物馆等场所。
In the early morning hours of March 8, the Italian government issued an emergency decree banning travel to and from Lombardy and 14 other provinces, suspending sporting events and closing schools, museums and other facilities, except for work, health reasons and special circumstances.
两天后，封闭措施扩展至全国。
Two days later, the closure was extended to the entire country.
从米兰市长到酒吧和年轻人畅饮、吃披萨，到意大利全国城市封闭，在那里生活的中国留学生见证了疫情发展的全过程。
From the mayor of Milan to bars and young people drinking and eating pizza to Italy's cities closed, the Chinese students living there witnessed the epidemic's development.
意大利全国范围内实行的“封城”禁令，被媒体称为“封国”。
Italy's nationwide ban on "closed cities" has been referred to by the media as the "closed country."
文|陈怡含编辑|陶若谷陈果果和杨晓很难想象，没有和家人一起经历的“封城”，会出现在脚下这片土地——但丁的故乡，文艺复兴发源地，一个热爱亲吻的国度。
Chen and Yang Xiao find it hard to imagine that the land where Dante's home, the birthplace of the Renaissance, and a country that loves kissing, has not been "closed" to their families.
她们是在那里生活的中国女孩，陈果果在米兰，疫情最严重的伦巴第大区首府，杨晓在首都罗马。
They are Chinese girls living there, Chen Guo Guo in Milan, the capital of the worst affected region of Lombardy, Yang Xiaoxiao in the capital.
意大利是欧盟最早宣布进入“全国卫生紧急状态”的国家，也早早限制了往来中国的直飞航线。
Italy was the first country in the European Union to declare a "national health emergency" and early restrictions on direct flights to and from China.
最初的20余天，仅有3例输入性病例。
In the first 20 days, there were only three imported cases.
确诊患者人数迅速上涨发生在2月下旬。
The rapid rise in the number of confirmed patients occurred in late February.
2月21日，意大利确诊病例增至20例，其中一名38岁的男性为该国第4例确诊患者。
On 21 February, the number of confirmed cases in Italy increased to 20, with a 38-year-old man being the fourth confirmed case in the country.
据当地媒体报道，他来自伦巴第，发病前先后参加了半程马拉松、足球赛、红十字会培训等诸多活动，行动轨迹覆盖10个城镇，影响人数预计不少于5万，被称为本土的“1号病人”。
According to local media reports, he came from Lombardy, before the onset of half marathon, soccer, Red Cross training and other activities, the track covered 10 towns, the number of people is expected to affect not less than 50,000, known as the "local" patients.
截至3月13日，意大利累计已有15385例新冠肺炎患者，是除中国外感染人数最多的国家，死亡率超过6%。
As of March 13, Italy had 15,385 new cases of pneumonia, the highest rate outside China, with a death rate of more than 6 percent.
3月7日，戴着口罩的行人经过罗马斗兽场。
On March 7, passers-by in masks passed the Colosseum.
（图片来源：法新社）医学杂志《柳叶刀》公布的“2019年全球医疗质量及可行性排名”中，意大利排在第9位；在另一份“全球健康安全指数”榜单上，在应对大流行病的综合评比中，意大利位列第31位，其中“监测疾病”、“跨境应对”等多个指数均为全球首位。
Italy is ranked ninth in the 2019 rankings of global health quality and feasibility published by the medical journal The Lancet, and 31st in a comprehensive ranking of pandemic responses, with "disease surveillance" and "cross-border responses."
但如今，这里的医疗系统已不堪重负。
But today, the health-care system is overburdened.
一份来自意大利麻醉镇痛重症医学学会的公开文件显示，建议医院优先照顾康复机会最大的患者。
A public document from the Italian Society of Anesthetic and Analgesic Severe Medicine suggests that hospitals should give priority to patients with the greatest chance of recovery.
根据近日当地媒体的报道，已有医院开始这样操作。
According to recent local media reports, hospitals have begun to do so.
总理孔特在电视讲话中，呼吁民众改变习惯：“当前所有数据表明，留给意大利的时间不多了。
Prime Minister Conte, in a televised speech, called for a change in habits: "All the current figures show that not much time has been left for Italy.
……唯有所有人配合执行这些严厉的措施，才能战胜疫情。
Only with the cooperation of all of us in carrying out these drastic measures will we be able to overcome the epidemic.
”自1月底意大利首次出现确诊病例至今，陈果果和杨晓见证了疫情发展的全过程。
Chen and Yang Xiao have witnessed the full course of the epidemic since the first confirmed cases in Italy in late January.
那些随之而来的，或主动或被动的变化，也给她们对于工作、学业的计划增添了更多变数。
The changes that followed, whether active or passive, also added more variables to their plans for work and study.
以下内容根据她们的口述整理：陈果果，米兰理工大学学生，22岁，坐标米兰「写着无接触配送，外卖小哥还是亲手递给了我」3月8日知道“封城”的消息，我非常惊讶，之前觉得再怎么都不会把米兰封起来，哪怕伦巴第大区其他地方都封了，因为米兰可以说是意大利的经济中心。
According to their dictation, Chen Guo Guo, a 22-year-old student at Milan Polytechnic University, was surprised to learn that the city was "sealed" on March 8th, even though the rest of the Lombardy region was sealed, because Milan is the economic center of Italy.
接着就（在网上）看到前一晚米兰火车站的场景，很多人赶着末班车往南方跑。
Then I saw the train station in Milan the night before, and a lot of people were running south with the last bus.
了解过武汉的情况，就会觉得这种逃离也是能够被理解的。
Have known Wuhan's situation, will feel this kind of escape also can be understood.
我有个阿姨在佛罗伦萨，“封城”第二天，她还问我要不要去那边待一段时间，我想还是待在家里最安全。
The next day she asked me if I wanted to stay there for a while. I thought it would be safest to stay at home.
米兰的“封城”不同于武汉，市内交通都是正常的，餐厅和酒吧也在照常营业。
Milan's "closed city" is different from Wuhan, the city traffic is normal, restaurants and bars are also business as usual.
不少意大利人喜欢吃到一半出来抽烟，聚在一起聊天，“封城”后路过餐厅，还是有人聚在门口。
Many Italians like to eat half out to smoke, chat together, "closed" after the restaurant, or someone gathered at the door.
街上戴口罩的意大利人是一只手数的过来的，超市收银员也没有戴。
The Italian wearing a mask in the street was counted by one hand, and the cashier in the supermarket did not wear one.
前几天我叫了披萨外卖，下单后收到邮件，标题写着“我们的配送现在是无接触的啦”，还配了一张图片：外卖小哥把披萨放在配送箱上，后退几步，让你自己去拿。
The other day I ordered pizza and got an e-mail with the headline "Our distribution is no longer in contact" and a picture of him putting the pizza on the delivery box and stepping back a few steps to get it yourself.
结果他还是亲手把披萨递给了我，只是没有进门，而且他既没有戴口罩，也没有像图片上一样戴手套。
He handed me the pizza, but he didn't come in, and he didn't wear a mask or gloves, as he did in the picture.
陈果果收到的外卖无接触配送宣传海报，但实际情况并非如此。
ChenGuo Guo received no contact distribution propaganda posters, but in fact this is not the case.
（图片由受访者提供）1月下旬，意大利还没有出现输入性病例的时候，我就在买口罩。
I was buying a mask in late January, before I had an imported case in Italy.
我到意大利快4年了，在米兰理工大学读大四。
I've been in Italy for almost four years, a senior at Milan Polytechnic University.
上一次回国是去年暑假，没有经历国内的疫情。
The last time I returned was last summer vacation, I didn't experience any epidemic in China.
当时意大利的口罩已经比较缺了，线下几乎买不到——国内疫情扩大之后，华人一下子买了很多。
Italy was already short of face masks and could hardly buy them offline - the Chinese bought a lot of them after the outbreak spread.
我在购物车里添加了些一次性口罩和FFP2口罩（与N95口罩标准类似）。
I added some disposable masks and an FFP2 mask to my cart (similar to the N95 mask standard).
过了两三天，欧洲几个国家陆续出现确诊病例，加上我支气管炎发作，就决定去下单。
After two or three days, a succession of confirmed cases appeared in several European countries and, with my bronchitis outbreak, I decided to place an order.
但之前的几个购买链接已经失效了，没买到，后来只找到工业级别的FFP2口罩。
But several of the previous purchase links are no longer available, and only industrial-grade FFP2 masks were found.
之前没有马上下单，一是觉得欧洲不会爆发，二是有种不敢戴口罩出门的心理。
Not immediately before ordering, one is that Europe will not erupt, and the other is afraid to wear masks out of the psychological.
这边根深蒂固的观念是，只有病人才戴口罩。
The ingrained belief here is that only patients wear masks.
我待了快4年，只见过一个花粉过敏很严重的朋友戴口罩。
I've been here for almost four years and only seen a friend with a severe pollen allergy wearing a mask.
疫情初期，有些开中餐厅的华人也骂留学生，说戴口罩很脑残，如果餐厅里有人戴口罩，意大利人不敢进去，会很影响生意。
In the early days of the epidemic, some Chinese restaurant owners also scolded foreign students for wearing masks, saying that if someone in the restaurant wore a mask, the Italians would be afraid to go in, which would affect business.
1月24日欧洲出现输入性病例，我就开始紧张，因为欧盟各国之间流动比较自由，跟国内各省之间差不多。
With imported cases in Europe on January 24, I became nervous, because EU countries move about as freely as their domestic counterparts.
5天后，意大利有两名中国游客确诊，我了解到是从米兰入境的，就更加警惕了。
Five days later, two Chinese tourists were diagnosed in Italy, and I learned that I had arrived from Milan, so I was even more vigilant.
意大利政府反应也比较迅速，1月31日就宣布进入“紧急状态”，把往来中国的直飞航班停掉了。
The Italian government responded quickly, declaring a "state of emergency" on January 31, when direct flights to and from China were suspended.
一开始（确诊）数据增长很慢，到2月20日只新增了一例，当时我想最终确诊人数也就几十吧，没想到“1号病人”出现后，很快就涨到了这个数。
At first, the growth was slow. By February 20, there was only one new case. I thought the number of people diagnosed would be a few dozen.
那天是2月21日，我在电车上看到很多人浏览疫情新闻，身后还有一位意大利女士打电话问别人：现在哪里还能买到口罩？第二天，我在火车站看到有意大利人戴了高防护级别的口罩，那时才感觉到自己不是个异类了。
It was February 21, when I saw a lot of people browsing the news on the tram, followed by an Italian woman calling to ask: Where else can I buy a mask? The next day, when I saw Italians wearing high-security face masks at the railway station, I realized I wasn't a stranger.
那天口罩的价格涨得特别离谱，朋友在亚马逊上搜索FFP2口罩，查到的价格是60-70欧元/10个，而我之前买的价格是20-30欧元/10个。
That day the price of the mask went up so much that my friend searched Amazon for an FFP2 mask and found it was worth 60-70 euros / 10, compared with 20-30 euros / 10.
当时意大利政府还没有调整宣传导向。
Back then, Italy's government had not reoriented its propaganda.
有个议员因戴口罩被其它议员攻击，在议会上怒摔话筒，这段视频在中国的网络上得到很多关注。
The footage of a congressman who was attacked by other lawmakers for wearing a mask and hurled a microphone into parliament received a lot of attention online in China.
当场另一位议员用中北部城市普拉托举例，那是意大利华人最多的地方，他说：“那里病例不多的话，为什么要担心整个意大利？”直到3月4日，全国确诊3000多例，死亡人数也破100了，意大利政府才开始呼吁民众戴口罩，现在伦巴第大区的防疫宣传也把戴口罩加了上去。
"If there are not many cases, why worry about Italy?" another councilman, citing the northern central city of Plateau, said: "Until March 4, when more than 3,000 cases were diagnosed and the death toll passed 100, the Italian government began to call for people to wear masks.
但口罩更难买了。
But masks are harder to buy.
我的一个同班同学，也是中国留学生，她一个口罩都没有。
One of my classmates, also a Chinese student, didn't have a single mask.
后来我帮她在华人外卖软件“呱呱到家”上找到货源，是从英国进口的，每人限购20个，只有一两百个名额。
I later helped her find a source on Chinese take-out software, Brilliant Gack, imported from the UK. Each person was limited to 20 and had only one or two hundred seats.
现在买不到口罩的华人建了个群，有人会从一些东欧国家采购，比如捷克。
Chinese who can't buy masks now have a group of people who will buy from Eastern European countries, such as the Czech Republic.
同一栋楼的意大利人还是没有戴口罩。
Italians in the same building still don't wear masks.
这几天我在想，要不要拿出一盒放在楼道里，给老人和小孩用，尤其是一个独居的老奶奶，这几年一直蛮照顾我的，我很担心她会生病。
I have been wondering these days whether I should take out a box and put it in the corridor for old people and children, especially a single old woman who has been taking good care of me these years.
我在网上发帖，大家都说不要这样做，怕引来麻烦，妈妈也说先不要了。
I post on the Internet, everyone said not to do so, for fear of causing trouble, mother also said do not want.
而且一盒口罩有50个，没有独立包装，我怕那样放着不干净，把口罩浪费了。
And a box of 50 masks, no independent packaging, I am afraid of that put not clean, waste the mask.
「网课、医院、监狱」“1号病人”出现的第二天中午，我们学校在重点疫区的几个校区宣布停课，到了晚上9点多，伦巴第大区内的所有校区都停课了。
At noon on the second day of the emergence of "Cyber Class, Hospital, Prison," our school announced the suspension of classes on several campuses in key affected areas. By 9 pm, all campuses in the Lombardy district were closed.
学校网站都崩溃了，太多人去看停课的消息。
School websites collapsed and too many people went to see the news of the suspension.
上周有10个专业试着上了网课，这周基本所有专业都开网课了。
Last week, 10 majors tried to take the course, and this week almost all major classes are open.
有天老师下播后，一位同学打开摄像头和大家说拜拜，我看到好几个人和他坐在一起上课，顿时有些无语，这样不就失去了网课的意义吗？从确诊人数跳到四位数开始，我就在纠结要不要回国。
One day after the teacher broadcast, a classmate opened the camera and said goodbye to everyone, I saw several people sitting with him in class, suddenly silent, so do not lose the significance of the network lessons? From the diagnosis to the four-digit number, I was wondering whether to return home.
最终选择留下，主要是担心在中途感染，而且机票很贵，平常只要3、4千块的航班，已经涨到9千、1万。
The final choice to stay, mainly for fear of infection in mid-stream, and airfares are expensive, as the usual 3,000 or 4,000 flights have risen to 9,000 or 10,000.
有人想从米兰回国在海关被拦下，因为没有警察局开的证明。
People who wanted to return from Milan were stopped at customs because there was no police certificate.
现在想要出境或跨区流动，必须去开证明，要有正当条件，比如常年跨境工作或者家里有丧事。
To move out of the country or across regions, one must prove it, under proper conditions, such as years of cross-border work or funerals at home.
我屯的主食足够吃一两个月。
I have enough staple food for a month or two.
一袋面包、一盒米、三分之二袋意大利面、两三袋速冻水饺，还有一些面条、方便面和螺蛳粉。
A bag of bread, a box of rice, two thirds of a bag of spaghetti, two or three bags of frozen dumplings, and some pasta, instant noodles, and snail powder.
蔬菜不好保鲜，国内“封城”时有人在网上分享保鲜的方法，我准备试一试。
Vegetables are not good to keep fresh, "closed" when someone on the Internet to share fresh methods, I am ready to try.
现在我每天晚上会测一次血氧。
Now I take a blood oxygen test every night.
之前看到有患者没有出现症状，但血氧会降低，最后病情突然恶化，我就买了一个血氧仪。
I had seen no symptoms before, but blood oxygen would go down, and then suddenly it got worse, so I bought a blood oxygen meter.
根据以往的就医体验，他们（指意大利的医疗系统）效率真的不高。
Based on their past experience with care, they are not really efficient.
有次我心脏不舒服，感觉快死掉了，凌晨3点叫了救护车，直到早上7点多才出医院，只做了两项检查——心电图和验血。
I called an ambulance at 3 a. m., and didn't get out of the hospital until more than 7 a. m., only to have two checkups - an electrocardiogram and a blood test.
中间遇到医生换班，前一批慢悠悠地等着下一批来，之后两批医生又聊了半个小时天。
There was a change of doctor, and the first batch of doctors waited for the next batch slowly, and then the two groups talked for half an hour.
最近有个视频在意大利传播很广，是南部城市那不勒斯的一个意大利男生拍的。
Recently a video was widely distributed in Italy, shot by an Italian boy in the southern city of Naples.
他的姐姐疑似患新冠肺炎去世，他因为给姐姐做了人工呼吸，也有很大可能被感染。
His sister, who died of a suspected pneumonia in the New Crown, is also at high risk for infection after he gave his sister artificial respiration.
他姐姐是3月7日去世的，（视频里）遗体还躺在床上，他说之前联系了家庭医生，但对方并不在乎，没有来家里检查，又联系了所有能想到的部门，也没有得到有效回应。
His sister died on March 7, and the body was still in bed, he said, after contacting the family doctor, but the caller didn't care. He did not come to the house to check and contacted all the departments he could think of, but there was no effective response.
后来新闻说，给他和去世的姐姐做了核酸检测，都是阳性。
Later news reports said he and his dead sister were tested for nucleic acid, both positive.
3月10日，意大利布雷西亚医院搭建的应急设施。
Emergency response facility at Brescia Hospital, Italy, 10 March.
（图片来源：美联社）现在意大利的医疗系统负荷已经很重了。
(Source: AP) Italy's health-care system is already overloaded.
我家附近一家比较大的综合性医院已增设200张床位，前几天他们连线武汉的同济医院，询问怎么建隔离病房、医护人员怎么防护。
A big general hospital near my home has added 200 beds. A few days ago, they connected to the Tongji Hospital in Wuhan and asked how to build the isolation ward and how to protect the medical staff.
这里医护人员的感染率也比较高，政府开始返聘退休的医生，还招募了没有毕业的护士。
There is also a high rate of infection among health-care workers, and the Government has begun to rehire retired doctors and recruit nurses who have not graduated.
意大利的老龄化程度很高，世界排名第二，仅次于日本。
Italy has a high degree of aging, ranking second in the world, behind Japan.
新冠肺炎死亡率这么高，我觉得和这个关系很大，疫情最严重的几个城镇，住的基本都是老人。
The death rate from Newcastle pneumonia is so high, and I think it's a big concern. Some of the worst-affected towns are mostly elderly people.
（注：据意大利高等卫生研究院院长Silvio Brusaferro表示，死亡病例平均年龄为81岁，多数患者生前有其他疾病。
(Note: According to Silvio Brusaferro, Director of the Italian Institute of Higher Health Studies, the average age of death is 81 years, with most patients suffering from other illnesses.
）我还有些担心社会稳定的问题。
) I also have some concerns about social stability.
最近几个意大利监狱因为减少了囚犯家属的探视发生暴乱，甚至把狱警打伤了，还有囚犯死亡。
Riots had recently broken out in several Italian prisons as a result of reduced visits by prisoners' families, and prison guards had even been injured and prisoners had died.
全国封闭第二天，还有意大利人谣传坦克镇压，实际是这些坦克在撒丁岛演习后，开回原来的军事基地。
The next day there were rumours from Italians that tanks were cracking down and that they were actually returning to their military base after Sardinia.
法国一家电视台做了恶搞意大利人的广告。
A French television station advertised for the Italians.
厨师在取披萨时，因为咳嗽将一团恶心的、绿乎乎的东西吐在上面，广告语是：“为您呈献意大利新款比萨，它将在全球风靡。
As the cook fetched the pizza, he coughed up a disgusting, green mass with the slogan: "Present you with your new Italian pizza, which will become a global phenomenon.
” 旁边有“新冠披萨”的字样，配色是意大利国旗的绿白红三色。
Next to it was the word "new crown pizza," paired with the green, white and red colours of the Italian flag.
这个视频激怒了意大利人，网上都在骂，外交部长也公开斥责法国。
The video infuriated Italians, scolded on the Internet and publicly scolded France by the foreign minister.
就在我们说话的工夫，（患者）数据又更新了。
As we speak, the numbers have been updated.
斯洛尼亚、马耳他、奥地利都关掉了边境。
Slonia, Malta, Austria have all closed their borders.
如果途中能够保证安全，我还是想要回国。
I still want to go home if I can make sure I'm safe on the way.
警察在米兰东南部圣菲奥拉诺的“红色区域”检查站检查出行证件。
Police check travel documents at the Red Zone checkpoint in San Fiorano, southeast of Milan.
（图片来源：英国天空新闻台）杨晓，艺术研究生，26岁，坐标罗马「以为是歧视，结果问她“口罩在哪里买的？”」我来意大利已经6年多了，一边做奢侈品行业的工作，一边读艺术类的研究生。
(Source: Sky News) Yang Xiao, a 26-year-old art graduate student at the coordinates of Rome, thought it was discrimination and asked her, "Where did you buy the mask?"
罗马的奢侈品店防范意识比较超前，因为早期还是会接触到一些中国游客。
Luxury goods stores in Rome are more ahead of the curve because of early exposure to some Chinese tourists.
Gucci是最早开始戴口罩的，大概在2月初，所有店员都戴，不仅仅是华人。
Gucci was one of the first to start wearing masks. Around the beginning of February, all shop assistants, not just Chinese, wore them.
后面陆续有一些公司会发口罩，但不强制戴，完全凭个人意愿。
Later, some companies will wear masks, but not compulsorily, on their own will.
两三周以前，意大利只有70多人确诊的时候，华人群体就有明显的危机感，不管是留学生群还是工作群，都每天盯着数据，说明天估计得多少多少人（确诊）了，每到第二天，总会比我们猜的多出一点点。
When only 70 people were diagnosed in Italy two or three weeks ago, there was a clear sense of crisis in the Chinese community, both in the international community and in the work force, staring at the data every day to say how many people would be diagnosed tomorrow, always a little more than we guessed the next day.
当时我就提出要休假，毕竟命还是最重要的。
At that time I asked for a vacation. After all, life is the most important thing.
意大利同事们一定会觉得我小题大做，那段时间他们的心态非常好，觉得这只是普通流感，或者稍微比普通流感严重一点点，看到中国游客戴口罩，他们都很不理解。
My Italian colleagues must have thought I was making a fuss. They were in a good frame of mind and thought it was just ordinary flu, or a little worse than ordinary flu.
还有人做出一些不友好的举动。
There have also been some unfriendly acts.
有位中国同事和意大利同事交谈，对方故意说：“你刚刚在说什么？你戴着口罩我听不见！” 可其他人都能听见。
One Chinese colleague talked to his Italian colleague, who deliberately said, "What were you talking about? I can't hear you wearing a mask!" But everyone else could hear.
之前还看到一段视频，三个中国留学生戴着口罩乘地铁，整个车厢只有他们，因为意大利人都躲到隔壁车厢去了。
There had been a video of three Chinese students wearing masks on the subway, and they were the only ones inside because the Italians had taken refuge in the next car.
哪怕在疫情爆发后，还是有相当多的当地人认为，健康的人戴口罩是在制造恐慌。
Even after the outbreak, a significant number of locals believe that healthy people wear masks to create panic.
有朋友在南部城市巴里上学，2月27日毕业典礼前，老师跟他说：“今天的毕业典礼你不要戴口罩进来，要是戴口罩的话，你就不要毕业了。
A friend went to school in the southern city of Bari. Before graduation on February 27, the teacher said to him, "Don't come in wearing a mask for today's graduation ceremony.
” 3月上旬，有位在奢侈品店工作的中国朋友在Instagram上号召大家戴口罩，经理叫他删除，说会造成恐慌。
In early March, a Chinese friend working at a luxury goods store called on everyone to wear masks on Instagram, and the manager told him to remove them, saying it would cause panic.
现在全世界都知道了，意大利的确诊人数已经成为欧洲第一。
Now the world knows that Italy has the highest number of confirmed cases in Europe.
公布的数据我不是很信任，因为不会严密排查每个确诊病人有过多少密切接触者，就算查到，没有症状也不会做核酸检测。
I don't trust the published data because I don't closely check how many close contacts each patient has, and even if they do, they don't test for nucleic acids.
前段时间意大利做过一次确诊数据的核减，把核酸结果阳性但没有症状的人都排除了，这不是光明正大地瞒报吗？现在已经有医学学会建议要优先照顾康复机会最大的患者，也有医院在这样操作了。
A while ago, Italy made a confirmed data reduction, positive nucleic acid results but no symptoms of people excluded, is not openly underreported? Now that the Medical Association has recommended giving priority to patients with the greatest chance of recovery, hospitals have done so.
我一方面觉得残忍，一方面又觉得这是没有办法。
I felt cruel on the one hand and helpless on the other.
前两天川大华西医院派了专家过来，大家看到消息后非常开心，群里都在说：“祖国终于来救我们了。
The other day Sichuan Huaxi Hospital sent experts to see the news, we were very happy, the group said: "The motherland has finally come to save us.
”我是2月初买的口罩。
"I bought a mask in early February.
我住的居民区药房算多的，跑了好几家都没有，工作地在市中心，那里的药房直接在门口贴了“没有口罩”的告示。
I live in a large residential pharmacy, a few of which are in the city centre, where pharmacies put up "no masks" signs directly at the door.
后来我托一个工作地很偏僻的朋友买了10个N95口罩，花了60欧元。
Later, I asked a friend who was working in a remote area to buy 10 N95 masks for 60 euros.
买到口罩之后，每次出门都会戴上，只有一次例外，那天是考试，要和老师面对面交流，那个老师还算是意大利人中防范意识比较强的，戴了口罩去学校，但开始考试后，他把口罩摘了下来，我也跟着摘了下来，不然感觉有点不尊重他。
After buying the mask, he will wear it every time he goes out, except once. It is an exam and he has to communicate face-to-face with the teacher, who is a better guard among Italians and wears a mask to school.
直到现在，意大利政府在宣传戴口罩上还是态度比较暧昧的，他们主要是号召不要出门。
Until now, the Italian government has been ambiguous in promoting the use of masks, mainly by calling for them not to go out.
可能是这边口罩确实不够，他们想留给那些最需要的人。
Maybe this side of the mask is really not enough. They want to leave it to those who need it most.
但这也不是个好办法，感染的人会越来越多。
But it's not a good idea. More and more people will get infected.
前两天出门，大概有30%的意大利人戴口罩了。
About 30% of Italians wear masks when they went out the other day.
朋友圈里有个中国女生在街上被几个意大利人拦下，她以为是来歧视她的，结果人家问：“你的口罩在哪里买的？” 还有个姐姐说，楼下看门的大爷买不到口罩，她给了大爷几个，大爷很感动，感觉都要哭了。
A Chinese girl in a friend's circle was stopped in the street by a few Italians. She thought she had come to discriminate against her and was asked, "Where did you buy your mask?" Another sister said that the man downstairs could not buy a mask.
这两天看到消息说中国捐了10万个口罩，朋友还因此收到意大利同事的感谢短信，也可能是这些同事平时和中国人接触比较多吧。
After two days of news that China had donated 100,000 face masks, friends received a thank-you note from their Italian colleagues, perhaps because they had more contact with Chinese people.
网络上还是有一部分人认为，病毒是从中国来的，这是你们应该做的。
There are still some people on the Internet who believe that the virus is from China, and that's what you should do.
杨晓收到的《自我声明》模板，外出购物须填写并随身携带，否则有被罚款206欧元的风险。
Yang Xiao received the "self-declaration" template, go shopping to fill out and carry around, otherwise risk being fined 206 euros.
（图片由受访者提供）「希望疫情尽快结束，让我按计划毕业」之前想过罗马会封，但没想到这么快。
(Photo provided by the interviewee) "Hope the epidemic ends soon and I graduate as planned." I thought Rome would be sealed, but I didn't expect it to happen so soon.
“封国”那天，白天我打电话给经常光顾的中国超市，说配送已经预约到下个月了。
During the day, I called the Chinese supermarket and said the delivery had been booked until next month.
到了夜里11点多，朋友圈里有人发图，其他超市已经开始大排长龙。
In the night more than 11 o'clock, friends in the circle of map, other supermarkets have begun a long line.
我一下子紧张起来，赶紧去敲室友的房门，叫她一起下楼采购。
I was so nervous that I knocked on my roommate's door and told her to come downstairs and do the shopping.
附近的超市果然也在排队，我前面大概有二三十个人，后来队伍越来越长，有小一百号人了。
The nearby supermarket is also in line, I have about 20 or 30 people in front of me, later the line grew longer, there are 100 people.
超市门口有工作人员负责限流，一次只放14个。
Supermarket entrance staff responsible for limiting the flow, only 14 at a time.
我们等了一个多小时才进去，那时鸡蛋、面粉、面包都已经被扫空，肉类只剩下意大利人不吃的猪蹄和内脏，我们买了几盒，还买了很多意大利面和蔬菜水果。
We waited more than an hour to get in, when eggs, flour and bread were cleared, meat was left with pig's feet and offal, which the Italians did not eat, and we bought boxes of spaghetti and fruits and vegetables.
从超市出来已经夜里两点。
It's two in the night coming out of the supermarket.
2月下旬，意大利本土的“1号病人”出现后， 超市的消毒用品货架被一扫而空。
In late February, the shelves of disinfectant supplies in supermarkets were emptied following the appearance of a mainland "patient number one."
（图片由受访者提供）有3个流浪汉常年睡在超市旁边，我不确定他们知不知道现在有新冠病毒这回事，因为他们没有手机，他们可能觉得超市在大减价，所以大家都在排队。
I'm not sure they know about the new crown virus because they don't have a cell phone. They may think the supermarket is having a sale, so everyone is queuing up.
或者知道有疫情，但没有什么钱去保护自己，所以很“淡定”地在睡觉。
Or know that there is an epidemic, but there is no money to protect themselves, so very "calm" sleep.
我觉得“封国”最大的影响就是让意大利人紧张起来，意识到新冠肺炎不仅是普通流感那么简单。
I think the biggest effect of "sealing the country" is to make Italians nervous and realize that pneumonia is more than just ordinary flu.
前两天意大利《共和报》在社交网站上转发了一个米兰护士的自述，说每天都很累，六七个小时不能换工作服，大家不要白费了她们的辛苦，能待在家里就待在家里。
Two days ago, the Italian newspaper La Repubblica posted on a social networking site a self-report from a nurse from Milan that they were tired every day and could not change their work clothes for six or seven hours.
帖子评论很多，当时已经有1905条了，而这个账号的其他内容，一般只有七八十条评论。
There were a lot of comments on the post, there were already 1905, and the rest of the account, generally only seventy-eight comments.
最近几天，同学们都乖乖待在家里，不像刚放假的时候，当天晚上就有人去蹦迪。
In recent days, students are obediently stay at home, not just when the holiday, that night someone went to Jumping.
3月10日有个朋友毕业，他们学校取消了拨穗和握手的环节，老师和学生都隔着一米远，也没有人再行贴面礼。
On March 10, a friend graduated. His school removed ear-tossing and shaking hands. Teachers and students were separated by a meter and no one pasted their faces.
附近餐厅的客人少了许多，健身房也关门了。
There are fewer people in the nearby restaurant and the gym is closed.
罗马的很多著名景点，比如斗兽场、歌剧院，都已经关闭，意甲联赛也推迟了。
Many famous attractions in Rome, such as the Colosseum and the Opera House, have been closed and the Serie A League has been postponed.
家人很想让我回国，大概在意大利出现百位确诊病人的时候，他们就开始问。
My family wanted me back home, and they started to ask me about the hundred patients who had been diagnosed in Italy.
最终我还是决定不回去了，因为我的永久居留（证件）还没有下来，回国的话，再想回来就麻烦了。
In the end, I decided not to go back, because my permanent residence (documents) have not come down, if I return to the country, I would like to return to trouble.
本来我是打算今年7月毕业的，看现在这个情况应该是不行了。
I was planning to graduate in July this year, I think this situation should not be able to.
我们是差4个学分的时候就可以申请毕业，我去年年底就提交了申请，2月是最后两门课的考试，但我因为疫情没有去考。
I submitted my application at the end of last year. I took my last two exams in February, but I didn't take the exam because of the epidemic.
后来学校也停课了，先是停到3月15日，前两天又延长到4月10日，目前还没有开网课的计划。
The school was also closed until 15 March and extended until 10 April. There are no plans to open classes.
做毕业论文要和老师讨论，偏偏我那个论文老师只接受当面交流，不接受线上交流，所以只能等学校恢复正常运转。
To do the graduation thesis and teachers to discuss, but my thesis teacher only accept face-to-face communication, do not accept online communication, so can only wait for the normal functioning of the school.
我们每年有三个时段可以毕业，7月赶不上就要推迟到10月，甚至可能推迟到明年3月。
We can graduate three times a year, with a delay in July until October, or perhaps even March next year.
希望疫情尽快结束，让我按计划毕业。
Hopefully the epidemic will end soon and I can graduate as planned.
（文中人物为化名）后台回复"读者群",加入更多讨论。
Back office reply & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
小昼。
Daylight.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
已喜欢，对作者说句悄悄话。
Like it, whisper to the author.
发送给作者。
Send to author.
最多40字，当前共字。
Up to 40 words, currently in common.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
亲历意大利“封国”。
Experience Italy's "Seal".
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "极昼工作室";。
Var nickname = & quot; daytime studio & quot;;
var msg_title = "亲历意大利“封国”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "一个热爱亲吻的国度。
var msg _ desc = & quot; a country that loves kissing.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="极昼工作室";。
var title = & quot; day studio & quot;;
