疫情中的快递、外卖员：我们在工作，就代表城市在运转。
Express delivery, take-out in the epidemic: We are working, which means the city is working.
剥洋葱。
Onion peeling.
剥洋葱people                      。
peel onions.
剥洋葱people。
peel onions.
剥开人物外壳，记录真实可感的生命。
Peel off the character's shell and record the real and palpable life.
新京报深度报道部出品。
Beijing News in-depth coverage of the Department.
。
.
疫情期间，许多快递小哥和外卖员依然活跃在武汉街头。
During the outbreak, many couriers and takeaway workers remained active on the streets of Wuhan.
迫于生活压力、考虑到岗位职责、为市民做点贡献……他们的想法不尽相同，但都在用实际行动支撑着这座城市的运转。
The pressure of life, the responsibility of the job, the contribution to the community... their ideas are not the same, but the city is supported by action.
在工作之余，外卖员老计喜欢玩微博。
After work, the take-out man likes to play microblogging.
在微博上，他记录自己所到的每一个角落。
On Weibo, he keeps track of where he goes.
受访者供图文 | 新京报记者 祖一飞实习生 杜萌 孔宁婧编辑｜胡杰校对| 张彦君►本文约5212字，阅读全文约需10分钟骑上摩托车，穿梭在武汉空旷的马路上，鲍飞偶尔会不自觉地“神游”。
Interviewee Du Meng-ning, an intern at Xinjing News, Jing Jie, editor, proofread and read about 5,212 words. It takes about 10 minutes to ride a motorcycle through Wuhan's empty streets.
疫情最严重的那段日子，他很少在街头看到人和车，临街的店铺一间间从眼前闪过，极少有开着的。
At the height of the epidemic, he rarely saw people and cars on the streets, and shops flashed past him, rarely open.
城市突然间少了生气，身为武汉人的他也感到陌生。
The city suddenly less angry, as a Wuhan, he also feel strange.
他忍不住想，“武汉到底怎么了？”鲍飞是一名外卖骑手，负责给武汉的一家生鲜店送货。
He couldn't help thinking, "What's wrong with Wuhan?" Bao Fei, a take-out rider, delivers to a fresh shop in Wuhan.
疫情暴发至今，他大部分时间都在跑单。
Since the outbreak, he has spent most of his time running alone.
尽管每天从早忙到晚，“不充实”的感觉总困扰着他。
Even though he was busy from morning till night, the feeling of being "not full" always bothered him.
“我只想疫情快点过去，武汉早点解封。
"I just want the epidemic to pass quickly, Wuhan unsealed earlier.
”挣钱养家的同时，鲍飞希望为武汉添一份力。
"While earning money to support his family, Bofei hopes to add value to Wuhan.
雷神山医院开建后，他去做了9天义工，送货间隙也经常帮邻居们捎些吃的用的。
After the construction of Raytheon Mountain Hospital, he volunteered for nine days and often brought food to his neighbors between deliveries.
像鲍飞一样，许多快递小哥和外卖员依然活跃在武汉街头。
Like Bao Fei, many courier and take-out workers are still active on the streets of Wuhan.
迫于生活压力、考虑到岗位职责、为市民做点贡献……他们的想法不尽相同，但都在用实际行动支撑着这座城市的运转。
The pressure of life, the responsibility of the job, the contribution to the community... their ideas are not the same, but the city is supported by action.
忙碌的同时，他们感知着人情冷暖，也见证了特殊时期网购消费的意义所在。
At the same time, they are aware of the warmth of human feelings, but also witnessed the significance of the special period of online consumption.
随着城市走向复工，人们对网络消费的需求在不断增长。
As cities return to work, the demand for online consumption is growing.
据“武汉发布”数据显示，2月中下旬的两周时间，湖北发出和签收的包裹量均较此前增长了近3倍，武汉地区签收的包裹量也增长了30%。
In the second half of February, Hubei received nearly three times more parcels than before, and Wuhan signed up 30 percent more parcels, according to figures released by Wuhan.
“不能停下来”鲍飞的家庭条件原本算得上优渥。
"Can't Stop" Bob's family conditions were good enough.
他是一家企业的中层管理人员，打拼六年后攒下两套房和一百多万存款。
He is a middle-level manager of a business that has saved up to two apartments and more than a million dollars in savings after six years.
2017年儿子确诊自闭症后，他办理了停薪留职，专心带孩子看病。
After his son was diagnosed with autism in 2017, he was placed on leave without pay to focus on his children.
过去近两年间，为了促进儿子的身体和智力发育，鲍飞每天都会给儿子打一针营养针。
Over the past two years, to boost his son's physical and mental development, he has given him a nutrition needle every day.
一针7500元，“就是拿钱在怼。
A injection of 7,500 yuan, "is to take the money.
”房和车卖掉了，存款也很快花完，鲍飞做起了外卖骑手。
With his house and car sold and his savings quickly depleted, Mr. Bowie became a takeaway rider.
之所以选择这份工作，是因为上班时间可以自由安排，送完单，他能抽点时间陪陪孩子。
The job was chosen because he was able to spend some time with his children when he was free to deliver his papers during office hours.
为了准备好接下来的医疗花销，疫情期间，鲍飞仍坚持跑单。
In order to prepare for the next medical expenses, during the epidemic, Bao Fei continued to run single.
他平均每天工作12个小时，日均收入500元以上，多的时候可以到800元。
He works an average of 12 hours a day, earns more than 500 yuan a day, and can reach 800 yuan in many cases.
“这都是用时间堆出来的。
"It's all made of time.
”从去年起，鲍飞就多次登上站点的“单王榜”。
"Since last year, he has appeared on the site's" single king list "many times.
他说，疫情期间单量比平时少，但每单的价格是以前的两倍多，算下来收入还是比平时高，每天能多挣200元左右。
He said the number of doses during the outbreak was lower than usual, but the price per item was more than twice as high as before, and the revenue was still higher than usual, making about 200 yuan a day.
到了午饭和晚饭时间，鲍飞总要抽空回家陪孩子，耐心地陪孩子说说话。
At lunch and dinner time, Bob always finds time to go home with his children and talk patiently with them.
5岁的儿子至今只能清晰地说全两句话——“爸爸回来了”“爸爸陪我玩游戏”。
The five-year-old son can only say all two things - "Dad is back" and "Dad is playing games with me."
晚上八点半，他会再次出门，继续跑到凌晨一点左右再回家。
At 8: 30 p.m. he would go out again and keep running until about 1 a.m.
作为兼职骑手，郭峰的本职工作是公交集团的后勤员工，1月23日武汉“封城”后，公交停运，他闲不住，骑车送起了外卖，“这个第二职业我很喜欢，累了就回家休息，有精神就跑一下。
As a part-time jockey, Guo Feng's job is the back-up staff of the bus group, January 23 Wuhan "closed the city," after the suspension of public transportation, he can not stop riding to pick up the takeaway, "this second career I love, tired to go home to rest, the spirit of a run.
”经过一座亮着“武汉必胜”的大楼时，郭峰停车拍了张照。
Guo stopped to take a picture as he passed a building illuminated by Wuhan Bisheng.
受访者供图从春节前到现在，除了有三四天时间缺口罩没出门，郭峰一直在外面送餐。
Interviewees from the Spring Festival until now, except for three or four days of gap cover not to go out, Guo Feng has been delivering meals outside.
他已经习惯了这种长时间、快节奏的工作方式。
He has got used to the long, fast-paced way of working.
“生活压力很大，（我）不能停下来。
"Life is so stressful that I can't stop.
”每个月，郭峰要还几千块的房贷，女儿学古筝、学画画、上各科辅导班，也都需要用钱。
Every month Guo Feng has to pay back thousands of yuan for a mortgage, and her daughter studies Guzheng, painting and tutoring classes, all of which also require money.
为了给孩子创造一个好的学习环境，他只能想办法增加收入。
In order to create a good learning environment for children, he can only find ways to increase his income.
有天凌晨五点多等餐的时候，郭峰看到一位骑手趴在摩托车上睡着了。
While waiting for his meal at five o'clock one morning, Guo Feng saw a rider asleep on his motorcycle.
他心想，那人身上一定也有故事。
There must be a story on that man, he thought.
“你说谁会在疫情期间还这样拼命地去赚钱呢？”被封锁的武汉，继续忙着跑单的除了本地人，还有没能回家的外地骑手。
"Who do you think is going to make so much money during the epidemic?" The blockaded city of Wuhan continues to run along with only locals and off-limits riders who have not been able to return home.
咸宁人王建已经独自度过了50多天。
Xianning Wang Jian has spent more than 50 days alone.
年前，妻子和女儿先回了老家，为了多挣些钱，他决定干到年底，却没想到之后就被困在了城里。
He decided to work until the end of the year to make more money. He was then stranded in the city.
骑着电瓶车，王建经常以54公里/小时的最快速度从一个点赶往另一个点。
Ride the electric car, Wang Jian often at the fastest speed of 54 km / h from one point to another.
每天500块钱的单子，是他给自己定的标准。
A list of five hundred dollars a day was the standard he had set for himself.
每天，他差不多要送五六十单。
Every day he would deliver nearly fifty or sixty.
王建平时不开灶，也没在家里囤些食物。
Wang Jianping did not open the stove and did not hoard food at home.
跑单的时候，他通常会在路上给自己点一碗热干面，和顾客的订单一起放在配送箱，送完单，就蹲在路边吸溜着解决掉。
On the run, he would usually order himself a bowl of hot, dry noodles on the road, put it in the delivery box with the customer's order, deliver the bill, and squat down by the side of the road to settle it.
每个月，他要给家里汇去三四千元。
Every month he remitted three or four thousand dollars to his family.
如今父母、妻女和80多岁的奶奶都待在老家，他成了全家唯一的收入来源。
Now his parents, wife and daughter and his 80-year-old grandmother are all in his hometown. He is the only source of income for his family.
40岁的老计与武汉有着一段特殊的感情。
The 40-year-old has a special relationship with Wuhan.
他曾在武汉读过四年大学，后来去南方闯荡。
He studied in Wuhan for four years and then went south.
去年7月，生意失败的他回到武汉做起了外卖骑手。
He returned to Wuhan last July after failing in business to become a take-out rider.
快递员李帆家住武汉郊区，他所在的物流公司成立了“保障生命专线通道”紧急配送项目。
Express courier Li Fan, who lives in a suburb of Wuhan, is part of a logistics company that has set up an emergency distribution project called "Guaranteed Life Line Channel."
接到任务后，李帆要开车往乡镇跑，在最短的时间内把药送上门。
After receiving the assignment, Li Fan will drive to the township, in the shortest possible time to deliver the medicine to the door.
1月31日，武汉某物流配送站，一名站点管理人员由于需进入医院送货，他带上了护目镜。
On January 31, Wuhan, a logistics distribution station, a site manager because of the need to enter the hospital delivery, he took goggles.
新京报记者 陶冉 摄城市的“蜂鸟”鲍飞自认为是一个有原则的人，货没送到绝不提前点“送达”，平时骑车遵规守纪。
"Hummingbird" Bao Fei of Tao Ran She City, a reporter for the Beijing News, regards himself as a principled person who never delivers goods well in advance.
但这次疫情期间，他少有地破了一次例——2.3公里的路程，他只花了三分钟就骑车赶到，过路口时也没注意看红绿灯。
But during the outbreak, he broke a rare example -- a 2.3-kilometer ride that took him only three minutes to get there without looking at the traffic lights.
之所以会破例，是因为鲍飞为上一单耽误了20分钟时间。
The exception was due to a 20-minute delay in Mr. Bao's last order.
打通客户电话通知取货时，听筒里传来“嗯嗯啊啊”的声音，随后电话被挂断。
When the customer called to pick up the goods, there was a "mmm-ah-ah" voice in the receiver and the phone was hung up.
鲍飞觉得奇怪，收到短信，才明白顾客是位聋哑人。
Bao Fei feels strange, receive text message, just understand the customer is deaf mute.
“她发短信说不好意思，她听不到也不会说话，叫我把货放到一个地方她去拿。
"She texted that she was sorry that she couldn't hear or speak and asked me to put the goods in a place where she could get them.
”担心对方找不到货又没法和自己联系，鲍飞没敢走，一直站在门口等人来。
Fearing that he couldn't find anything and he couldn't get in touch with him, he didn't dare to leave and waited at the door.
20分钟后，女孩终于出现。
After 20 minutes, the girl finally showed up.
看到鲍飞还在等，女孩朝他深深地鞠了一躬。
The girl bowed deeply to him when she saw that Bob was still waiting.
那一刻，鲍飞觉得有些心酸，也对女孩多了几分敬意。
At that moment, Bao Fei felt a little sad, but also paid some respect to the girl.
“她特别有礼貌，90度鞠躬，还跟我打手语，估计是表示感谢。
"She was extremely polite, bowed 90 degrees and played sign language with me, presumably as a gesture of gratitude.
”把货交到女孩手上，他注意到下一单只剩下三分钟就要超时，只能心急火燎地骑车抢时间。
Turning the goods into the hands of the girl, he noticed that the next order had only three minutes to run out of time, and he had to ride furiously to catch time.
这些在外跑单时遇到的事，鲍飞很少会跟家里人提起，受了委屈，也会在回家之前在心里藏好。
These things happened when running outside, Bao Fei rarely mentioned with the family, was wronged, will also in the heart before going home.
不久前，他给一位顾客送货，按照规定应当送到小区门口的取货点，对方为了求近，让他送到侧门。
Not long ago, he delivered goods to a customer who, according to the regulations, should be delivered to the pick-up point at the gate of the community.
到达之后，他才发现侧门已经用三米高的木板封死。
Upon arrival, he discovered that the side door had been sealed with planks three metres high.
鲍飞说，按照客人要求，他要一件一件地把货推过去，对方说可以了，他就松手。
Bowie said he would push the order one by one, as the guest asked, and he said yes and let go.
结果有一提纸没接住掉到了地上，对方当即开骂。
As a result, a mention of the paper did not catch the ground, the other side immediately scolded.
“骂的话特别难听。
"The abuse was terrible.
”鲍飞很想撂挑子不干了，但理智和现实告诉他：别和钱过不去。
"Bob wanted to quit, but reason and reality told him not to go against the money.
后来，没活儿干的时候，他看到雷神山医院在招义工，索性报名参加，去工地上帮忙搞起了电焊。
Later, when there was no work to do, he saw Lei Shenshan Hospital in the recruitment of volunteers, simply sign up to help the construction site to help welding.
工人一天能拿一千多，而他一分钱不要。
A worker can get more than a thousand a day, but he doesn't want a cent.
直到医院建好住进了病人，他才回去继续跑单挣钱。
It was not until the hospital was built and the sick man returned to the hospital to earn money.
鲍飞在雷神山医院工地做义工时的自拍照。
Bob took a picture of himself while volunteering at the Lei Shenshan Hospital site.
受访者供图。
Supplied by respondents.
在雷神山的一天夜里，鲍飞蹲在房顶，用手机拍了条视频作为留念，他身后是正在建设的工地。
One night in Raytheon Mountain, Bao Fei crouched on the roof and took a video as a memento of his mobile phone. Behind him was a construction site.
“希望我的速度能赶上病人治疗的速度，越快越好。
"I hope I can keep up with the patient's treatment as quickly as possible.
”郭峰没去过雷神山医院，但他经常给方舱医院和被作为隔离点的酒店送餐。
Mr. Guo hasn't been to Raytheon Mountain Hospital, but he often delivers meals to the cabin hospital and the hotel used as an isolation site.
方舱的订单大多来自医护人员，隔离点的订单则来自暂时被隔离的普通人，其中经常夹带有特殊需求——有人下完单会打来电话，请郭峰帮忙捎盒烟或者带瓶酒。
Orders for cabins come mostly from paramedics, while orders for quarantine sites come from people who are temporarily quarantined, often with special needs - someone calls after a single call and asks Guo Feng for a cigarette or a bottle of wine.
跑单的时候，王建也经常遇到客户在备注里要求帮带东西，他一般不会拒绝。
When running alone, Wang Jian also often encountered customers in the remarks to ask for help with things, he will not generally refuse.
“帮人帮习惯了。
"Get used to helping people.
”他曾一次性帮人代买了三袋50斤的大米，240个鸡蛋，还有一些水果蔬菜和零食。
He bought three 50-kilogram bags of rice, 240 eggs and some fruit, vegetables and snacks at one time.
光采买和送货就花了一个半小时。
It took an hour and a half just to buy and deliver.
在工作之余，老计喜欢玩微博。
The old plan likes to play microblogging after work.
在微博上，他记录自己所到的每一个角落，大家把他当做一个了解真实武汉的窗口。
On Weibo, he recorded his travels in every corner, people think of him as a real window into Wuhan.
封城初期，他接到了很多代买菜的单。
In the early days of the city, he received many orders for food.
在帮一个老婆婆买菜时，老计难住了。
The old plan got in the way of helping an old woman buy some food.
菜钱加起来要44元，送到地方，他看到老人手里只捏着一张20元的纸币。
When the money came to 44 yuan, he saw that the old man had only a twenty-dollar bill in his hand.
疫情期间，有些社区会供应爱心菜，外卖员也经常接到代买菜的订单。
During the outbreak, some communities served caring meals, and take-out workers often received orders to buy vegetables on their behalf.
受访者供图“我能感觉出来，那个婆婆家条件不是很好。
Interviewee: "I can feel that the conditions in that mother-in-law's house are not very good.
”老计想，要是跟对方实话实说，这么点菜44元，她肯定觉得没给她买好；但要只收这20元，明天、后天她再买菜怎么办？“我一想，就干脆不要她钱了”。
"The old planner thought that if she told him the truthfully how to order 44 yuan, she would not feel that she had bought it for her, but she would only charge 20 yuan for it, and she would buy it the next day or the morrow.
他编了个理由，连哄带骗地跟老婆婆说“有人请客”、“公司领导发奖金了”。
He made up a reason to cajole the old lady into saying "have a treat", "the company leader gives bonus".
老计在一次接受采访时说，外卖骑手不仅仅是一个人，这个群体能够正常工作，就代表后面的商家在营业，背后的平台也运营正常。
'A take-out rider is not just one person, 'Mr. Laogway said in an interview.' This group can work normally.
通过关注他，某种意义其实是在关注这个城市是不是正常运转。
By focusing on him, in a sense, you're focusing on whether the city is functioning properly.
“因为吃喝住行是我们普通人最关切的事情，如果吃的问题能够顺利保障，大家都会在心理上获得一种安全感。
"Because food, housing and shelter are the main concern of ordinary people, if the problem of eating can be smoothly guaranteed, we will all get a psychological sense of security.
”正如媒体评论中所言，对很多人来说，快递、外卖小哥就像城市的“蜂鸟”，用力挥动着自己的翅膀，穿梭在小区楼宇和街头巷尾。
As media reviews put it, for many, couriers and takeaway brothers are like the city's "hummingbird," swinging its wings and shuttling through buildings and streets.
作为确保物资供应的重要一环，他们在维系城市正常运行、降低病毒传播风险等方面发挥着重要作用。
As an important link to ensure the supply of materials, they play an important role in maintaining the normal operation of cities and reducing the risk of virus transmission.
二月中旬的时候，武汉下了场雪。
In the middle of February, it snowed in Wuhan.
那一天，老计停下电动车，一笔一画地在积雪上写了个“干”字。
On that day, the old plan stopped the electric car and wrote the word "dry" on the snow.
大家都会害怕疫情最严重的那段时间，鲍飞所在的站点一度只剩下他一位骑手。
Everyone was afraid that at the height of the epidemic, he was the only rider left on his site.
最初，每给顾客送完一单，鲍飞都会用消毒液给双手消毒，有时也帮着顾客消毒。
At first, Bao Fei would disinfect his hands with disinfectant and sometimes disinfect his customers.
“我也害怕疫情啊。
"I'm afraid of the epidemic, too.
”但他想，只要做好防范，戴好口罩，每天消毒，问题应该不大。
But as long as you're on guard, wear a mask and disinfect each day, the problem should be minor, he thought.
得知鲍飞还在冒着风险出去跑单，家里人曾一致反对，“我父亲差点要和我干架。
Knowing that Bao Fei is still risking to go out to run a single, the family once unanimously objected, "my father almost want to quarrel with me.
”鲍飞只能劝他们放心，稍有松动后，再找时间溜出来跑单。
"Bao Fei could only convince them to relax a little, and then find time to sneak out and run alone.
送完单，为了避免和家人接触，他选择骑车回到20多公里外的老房子去住。
To avoid contact with his family, he chose to cycle back to his old house, which was more than 20 kilometers away.
开始跑单后，鲍飞一连20多天没回家，直到武汉的疫情逐渐得到控制。
After starting to run a single, Bao Fei did not go home for more than 20 days until the epidemic in Wuhan was gradually brought under control.
后来回到家，警惕心仍不敢放下，他不仅和家人分房住，连晚上睡觉都戴着口罩。
When he returned home, he was still too alert to leave. He not only shared rooms with his family, but also wore a mask when he slept at night.
疫情升级之前，鲍飞都是把货直接送到顾客家门口。
Before the outbreak escalated, Mr. Boefei delivered the goods directly to customers' homes.
那段时间，有人给他送红包和饮料，也有人拒绝靠近，“看我的眼神都像看病毒一样。
During that time, he was given red packets and drinks, and others refused to approach him. "Look at me with my eyes like a virus.
”小区实行封闭式管理之后，他只能在大门口等顾客下来取。
After the neighborhood was under closed management, he had to wait at the gate for customers to pick it up.
但总有人不愿意出门拿货，订单取消，他就相当于白忙一场。
But there is always someone unwilling to go out to get the goods, the cancellation of the order, he is equivalent to a busy.
由于经常去方舱医院和隔离点送餐，郭峰一样会紧张。
As a result of frequent visits to the cabin hospital and isolation points to deliver meals, Guo Feng will be equally nervous.
每次送餐，他都提前打电话联系，约好放餐地点或是让工作人员转交，尽量避免和顾客碰面。
Every time he delivered a meal, he called ahead of time to set up an appointment for a meal or to have the staff deliver it.
最近，他还多了几次用绳子送餐的经历。
Recently, he has had several more experiences with rope to deliver food.
有些顾客住在邻街住宅的二、三楼，快递员一到楼下，他们就放下根绳子，要求把装餐的袋子系在上面。
Some customers lived on the second and third floors of a neighboring house, and as soon as the courier arrived downstairs, they lowered a rope and demanded that the bag containing the meal be tied to it.
这种方式也是无接触，双方都愿意接受。
It was also a non-contact approach that both sides were willing to accept.
顾客用绳子取餐。
Customers use ropes to get their meals.
这种方式无接触，外卖员和顾客都愿意接受。
This approach is untouchable and acceptable to both the take-out person and the customer.
受访者供图疫情之下，王建比以前更关注发生在身边的事。
Respondents to the epidemic situation, Wang Jianbi than before more concerned about what happened around.
他曾在网上看到过两则新闻，一则是有确诊病人对着电梯按钮吐口水，那个小区离他的出租屋很近；另一则发生在两站地铁远的地方，一个外卖小哥送一位胃痛的路人去医院，结果第二天，路人就因确诊新冠肺炎离世。
He had seen two news stories on the Internet of a confirmed patient spitting on an elevator button near his rental house, and two metro stations away when a take-out brother sent a passer-by to the hospital with a stomachache and died the next day of being diagnosed with pneumonia.
王建想，如果当时遇到那位路人的是他，他也会去帮忙。
Wang Jian thought that if he had met the passer-by, he would have helped.
“尽量做好防护，如果感染上也没办法。
"Protect yourself as much as you can if you get infected.
”各个小区封闭之后，上厕所成了他在外跑单时的首要难题，小区里的公共厕所不让进，外面的公共厕所不敢进，他能忍就忍，撑得住就等晚上回家再解决。
After the neighborhoods were closed, going to the toilet became the number one problem when he ran outside. He was not allowed to go to the public toilets in the community, and the public toilets outside didn't dare to go in.
他通常在早上七点起床，量完体温，穿上工作服，再戴上两层医用口罩出门。
He usually gets up at seven in the morning, measures his temperature, puts on his overalls, and puts on two medical masks to go out.
走到小区门口，还要用红外线测温计测一次。
Walk to the door of the community, but also with infrared temperature measurement once.
送货时经过卡点也要测，一天下来，他最少要被测二三十次。
Delivery through the card point also to be measured, at least at the end of the day, he will be tested 20 or 30 times.
李帆身上的责任比以前重了一些。
Li Fan's duty is a little heavier than before.
他要面对的是各种慢性病人的家属。
He is dealing with the families of the chronically ill.
从城区接货后，开车前往下属的区县和乡镇去送药。
After receiving the goods from the city, drive to the subordinate counties and townships to deliver medicine.
他为尿毒症患者送过三四十斤一箱的透析液，也为癫痫病人送过小件的专用药。
He has given patients with uremia a case of dialysis fluid, but also for epilepsy patients have given small pieces of special medicine.
按照公司要求，头一天的货第二天就要送到客户手上。
According to the company's requirements, the first day of the delivery to the customer the next day.
以前，李帆要装满一车才送货；现在，哪怕只有十几件也要跑，“可以说是不计成本。
In the past, Li Fan had to fill a load to deliver goods; now, even a dozen or so have to run, "recklessly."
”每次把货送到客户手上他总有一种成就感，送药救急，让这种感觉更加强烈。
"Every time he delivers a product to a customer, he has a sense of accomplishment, a strong sense of urgency.
让他印象最深的是，每次电话通知取件，电话那头的音调都会突然拔高，“听上去很激动。
What impressed him most was that every time a phone call was received, the tone on the other end of the phone would suddenly go up.
” 除了对接病人家属，李帆还多次前往金银潭、火神山、雷神山这些定点医院送药。
In addition to docking the patient's family, Li Fan also went to the designated hospitals of Gold and Silver Pool, Flaming Mountain and Lei Shenshan many times.
闷在防护服里，他更加理解医护人员的不易。
Dull in protective clothing, he more understand the difficulties of medical personnel.
据报道，2月底，武汉市外卖员、快递员缺口2000人，电商平台缺口4000人。
At the end of February, Wuhan reportedly ran short of 2,000 takeout workers and couriers, leaving a gap of 4,000.
为了缓解市场保供人手不足的压力，武汉市政府在有条件的地方帮助企业安排外卖、快递小哥集中住宿。
In order to relieve the pressure of market supply shortage, Wuhan city government helps enterprises to arrange take-out and express delivery small brother accommodation in places where conditions permit.
尚未复工的企业富余劳动力将在加强健康体检和卫生防护的前提下，签订短期服务合同，为外卖和快递队伍缓解压力。
The surplus labor force of enterprises that have not returned to work will sign short-term service contracts to ease the pressure on takeout and express delivery teams under the premise of strengthening medical check-up and health protection.
“快递小哥”背后的“宅经济”2月23日，国务院新闻办公室在武汉召开记者见面会，首次邀请武汉疫情防控一线的普通工作者讲述自己的故事，老计就是其中一员。
"Home economics" behind the "express brother" February 23, the State Council Information Office held a meeting in Wuhan, Wuhan, the first time invited ordinary workers on the prevention and control of the Wuhan epidemic to tell their own stories, old plan is one of them.
他对自己的工作也有了新的认识。
He also gained a new understanding of his work.
他意识到，作为众多疫情期间坚守工作的骑手中的一分子，他不仅仅代表个人，“很多骑手兄弟也能感受到这份荣光。
He realized that, as part of the many riders who stood by his work during the epidemic, he was more than just an individual: "Many rider brothers feel the glory.
”而帮大家解决了一些或大或小的生活问题，则让他很有成就感，想到了小时候大家都有的那一点英雄情结。
"And helping people solve some of the big or small problems in life, let him feel a sense of accomplishment, think of the childhood that we all have a little heroic complex.
疫情期间，各地快递、外卖小哥忙碌身影，是“宅经济”兴起的映照。
During the epidemic, express delivery, take-out small brother busy figure, is the "home economy" rise of the reflection.
小赵是北京的一名快递员，这段时间以来，最多的订单是蔬菜水果，其次是衣服。
Xiao Zhao, a courier in Beijing, has been ordering mostly fruits and vegetables, followed by clothes.
他感觉到，最近五六天的送货量有明显增长，一天送两三百件是常有的事。
He felt that there had been a marked increase in deliveries over the past five or six days, and that it was common to deliver two or three hundred items a day.
他在小区门口一个个打电话、发短信，等人来取。
He made phone calls and text messages in front of the neighborhood, waiting for people to pick them up.
这就延长了送货时间，他来不及吃午饭，一天只吃早晚两餐。
This extended the delivery time, he did not have time to eat lunch, only two meals a day morning and evening.
3月10日，北京一位快递员在空地上摆起地摊，隔着围栏，把快件递给围栏内的居民。
On March 10, a Beijing courier set up a stand on the vacant lot and handed the express to the residents of the fence across the fence.
新京报记者 郑新洽 摄“我现在一天送快递走一万多步，但一天要说的话三万句都不止。
"I am taking more than 10,000 steps a day, but I have more than 30,000 words to say a day.
”小赵说，他送货地区，有三五个人两个月以来几乎天天有快递。
"Zhao said he delivered goods to three or five people in the area almost every day for two months.
据一家大型生活服务类平台数据统计，全国疫情期间餐饮之外的订单增幅超过77%，春节期间蔬菜、肉、海鲜等食材销量环比增幅达到200%，葱姜蒜售出393万份，人们还买走了500多万个口罩。
Orders for non-food items increased more than 77 percent during the epidemic, with vegetable, meat and seafood sales up 200 percent, scallion and garlic sold 3.93 million and more than 5 million masks bought during the Lunar New Year, according to a large living services platform.
除了生活物资，据网商平台数据，室内运动设备订单数也大幅上涨，春节期间，某电商平台上的健身设备成交量持续走高，2月至今自营瑜伽垫成交额同比增长近6倍。
In addition to living materials, according to the Internet commerce platform data, indoor sports equipment orders also rose significantly, during the Spring Festival, a platform on the fitness equipment continued to increase turnover, February so far self-yoga mat turnover nearly six times the year-on-year.
眼下，复工脚步在逐渐加快。
Right now, the pace of returning to work is picking up.
2月26日，商务部服贸司司长冼国义谈到复工问题时透露，全国餐饮住宿业在逐步复工，其中部分餐饮业的复工方式以外卖为主。
On February 26, the Secretary for Trade and Industry of the Ministry of Commerce, Xian Guoyi, said that the catering industry was gradually resuming work, some of which mainly sold outside the catering industry.
2月25日全天，武汉市的餐饮外卖量就已达到13万单。
All day on Feb. 25, Wuhan City's take-out food volume has reached 130,000 units.
3月10日，国家邮政局市场监管司副司长侯延波向媒体介绍，“邮政快递行业复工人数近300万人，复工率达到92.5%，日处理邮件快件稳定在1.6亿件以上，复产率超过80%。
"The number of people returning to work in the postal and express mail industry has reached 92.5 percent, and the daily processing of postal materials has stabilized at over 160 million pieces, with a recovery rate of more than 80 percent," Hou Yanbo, deputy director of the state post office, told reporters
”另外，顺丰、京东物流、“三通一达”、百世、德邦、苏宁物流等主要快递企业也已早在2月10日宣布实现全面复工复产。
In addition, major express-delivery companies such as Shunfeng, Jingdong Logistics, "Three Direct Links," Centennial, De Pont and Suning Logistics also announced on February 10 that they would resume full production.
老计知道，越来越多行业复工，快递员和外卖小哥也不再是街上的“少数派”。
Old gimmicks know that as more industries return to work, couriers and take-out boys are no longer a "minority" on the streets.
疫情过后人们也许会忘了他，但他仍然珍视此刻感受到的“英雄主义”。
People may forget him after the outbreak, but he still values the "heroism" he feels at the moment.
洋葱话题▼你想对一线的快递员和外卖小哥说什么？后台回复关键词“洋葱君”，加入读者群推荐阅读武汉疫情初期，网络直报系统为何失灵？武汉“护肾小队”：向死而生战疫“主战场”：武汉定点医院与疫情“硬磕”的48天既然在看，就点一下吧。
Why did the network direct reporting system fail during the early stage of the wuhan epidemic? Wuhan "Kidney Protection Team": We're going to have a major battle with the epidemic in Wuhan Ding Hospital and it's 48 days since we're looking at it, just click there.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情中的快递、外卖员：我们在工作，就代表城市在运转。
Express delivery, take-out in the epidemic: We are working, which means the city is working.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "剥洋葱people";。
Var nickname = & quot; peeled with onions;;
var msg_title = "疫情中的快递、外卖员：我们在工作，就代表城市在运转";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; express & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "每次把货送到客户手上他总有一种成就感，送药救急，让这种感觉更加强烈。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
";。
;; & quot;
title: '武汉疫情初期，网络直报系统为何失灵？',。
At the beginning of Wuhan's epidemic, why did its network reporting system malfunction? & apos;
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '武汉“护肾小队”：向死而生',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '战疫“主战场”：武汉定点医院与疫情“硬磕”的48天',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="剥洋葱people";。
var title = & quot; peeled with onion;;
