到底谁在撒谎？与一位武汉医护病愈者的对话/* declared */。
Who is lying? Dialogue with a Wuhan Healthcare Patient / * Declared *.
到底谁在撒谎？与一位武汉医护病愈者的对话<br>。
Who on earth was lying? & nbsp; & nbsp; with a Wuhan healthcare professional & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & quot; & quot; & quot;
| title       = 到底谁在撒谎？与一位武汉医护病愈者的对话。
Who on earth was lying? A conversation with a Wuhan medical patient.
到底谁在撒谎？与一位武汉医护病愈者的对话。
Who is lying? A conversation with a Wuhan medical patient.
强国社区深入讨论。
Strong community in-depth discussion.
草民时代2020-02-23。
2020-02-23 The Grassroots Age.
阅读设置。
Read the settings.
楼主正文显示宽度。
Main text display width.
全幅。
Full length.
2/3幅。
2 / 3.
1/2幅。
1 / 2.
跟帖显示为。
Follow the post to show.
表状。
Table 1.
树状。
Tree shape.
跟帖内容。
Follow the post.
全部。
All.
楼主直播。
Live broadcast of the building.
分享。
Share.
赞(27)。
In favour (27).
快速回复。
Quick Response.
强国论坛。
Forum of Powerful Countries.
70年70问。
70 years 70.
人民访谈。
People interviews.
微视频 。
Microvideo.
人民网首页。
People's Homepage.
高级检索。
Advanced search.
注册。
Registration.
登录。
Login.
消息0。
Message 0.
回复提醒。
Reply reminder.
私信。
Personal letters.
暂时没有新提醒查看全部。
There is no new reminder to view all for the moment.
暂时没有新私信进入信箱。
No new private letters into mailbox for the time being.
个人信息。
Personal information.
修改头像。
Modification of the head.
设置。
Settings.
退出。
* Withdrawal.
时政版块。
Current political section.
强国论坛。
Forum of Powerful Countries.
深入讨论。
In-depth discussion.
军事历史。
Military history.
百姓监督。
Civilian oversight.
生活版块。
The life section.
贴图论坛。
Maps Forum.
文化娱乐。
Cultural entertainment.
青年联谊。
Youth fellowship.
原创栏目。
Original column.
访谈。
Interviews.
70年70问。
70 years 70.
强国社区>。
Powerful country community & gt;
深入讨论。
In-depth discussion.
到底谁在撒谎？与一位武汉医护病愈者的对话。
Who is lying? A conversation with a Wuhan medical patient.
草民时代。
The Grassroots Age.
关注。
Concern.
阅读设置。
Read the settings.
楼主正文显示宽度。
Main text display width.
全幅。
Full length.
2/3幅。
2 / 3.
1/2幅。
1 / 2.
跟帖显示为。
Follow the post to show.
表状。
Table 1.
树状。
Tree shape.
跟帖内容。
Follow the post.
全部。
All.
楼主直播。
Live broadcast of the building.
分享。
Share.
阅读(6824)回复(24)2020-02-23 14:11:59。
Read (6824) Reply (24) 2020-02-23 14: 11: 59.
赞(27)。
In favour (27).
快速回复。
Quick Response.
到底谁在撒谎？与一位武汉医护病愈者的对话来源：武汉壹周 武汉科技报作者：饶建平　　距离2月11日出院，已经有一周，但来自武汉中心医院的医生张芸(化名)仍处于隔离期，虽然她自我的感觉是“状态越来越好，快回到原来的样子了!”　　从1月上旬开始“发烧”，自我隔离到住院至今，张芸已经有一个多月没有见过家人。
Wu Jian Ping, author of Wuhan Healthcare Daily, said: It was a week since he was discharged from Wuhan Central Hospital on February 11, but Zhang Yun, a doctor from Wuhan Central Hospital, is still in isolation.
期间，她还亲历过同事，也是很好的朋友李文亮的去世。
During the period, she also experienced colleagues, is also a very good friend Li Wenliang's death.
作为病人，她和其他治愈出院者一样“走了回鬼门关”;而作为医疗工作者，她对这个病毒的了解，对医冶过程，甚至对生命都有不一样的感悟。
As a patient, she "went back to death" like other people who had been discharged from hospital; as a medical worker, she had a different sense of the virus, of the medical process, and even of life.
双重角色下，她的内心波澜起伏。
Under the dual role, her heart undulates.
2月18日，武汉科技报记者饶建平(以下简称记)对张芸进行了采访。
February 18, Wuhan Science and Technology newspaper reporter Rao Jianping (hereinafter referred to as the record) to Zhang Yun.
继续隔离，帮助筹措“战斗武器”　　记：祝贺你击退了病魔，真是太好了!　　张：谢谢，出院已经有一周了。
It was very kind of you to fight back! Zhang: Thank you. It's been a week since I was discharged from the hospital.
现在还在隔离期，有个观察阶段。
It's still in quarantine. There's an observation phase.
记：那现在做些什么呢?没有回你的科室吧?　　张：没有回到原岗位，现在在帮助医院联系一些急需的物资。
Reporter: What are you doing now? Didn't you go back to your office? Zhang: Not back to your previous position.
我们院收治的重症病人多，口罩、防护服，护目镜等医疗物资太缺了。
Our hospital admitted more serious patients, masks, protective clothing, goggles and other medical supplies are too short.
我在积极和外界联系，看能否联系到一些 “战斗武器”，帮助我那些还在战斗的同事们。
I'm in active contact with the outside world to see if I can reach out to some "combat weapons" to help my colleagues who are still fighting.
我希望他们都能健健康康地，直到打赢这场战役。
I hope they will all be healthy and healthy until they win the battle.
也希望你们帮我们院里多呼吁一下爱心企业帮帮我们。
Also hope you help us to appeal to the hospital more caring enterprises to help us.
迟迟得不到重视，第一代毒性太强了　　记：回头来看，能说下你“中招”的经过?　　张：这次疫情，一开始感染科，呼吸科，急诊科是重点，我们科室不是，李文亮所在的眼科也不是。
In retrospect, can you tell me what happened to you? Zhang: At the beginning of the outbreak, the Department of Infection, the Department of Respiratory Department, the emergency department is the key, our department is not, Li Wenliang's eye is not.
我是12号感到有些不舒服的。
I feel a little sick on the 12th.
网上有报道说，我们一开始不重视。
It was reported online that we didn't attach importance to it at first.
这个说法，不对。
That's not true.
2019年12月30号，我们就知道了疫情的严重性。
On December 30, 2019, we know the full extent of the epidemic.
当时，我们看到了检测报告有类似“SARS”字眼。
At the time, we saw a similar word for "SARS" in the test report.
非典那一年，我们的记忆很深，怎么可能不知道历害啊。
SARS that year, our memory is very deep, how possibly do not know the disaster ah.
当时，我们几个医生就一起向科室主任汇报了，医院公共卫生科有没有收到信息，我们不知道，但院方迟迟未引起足够的重视。
At that time, we several doctors reported to the director of the department together, the hospital public health department has received information, we do not know, but the hospital management has not attracted enough attention.
后来换来的反而是要我们不要“引起恐慌”，甚至是训诫。
Instead, we were told not to "cause panic" or even reprimand.
院里那么多医护人员感染了，对外的通报还说什么“未见明显人传人”，真是恐怖。
So many hospital staff have been infected, the external notification also said that "no obvious human-to-human", really terrible.
事实就摆在那儿，他们为什么要撒谎?我们很气愤。
The truth is there. Why are they lying? We're angry.
私下提醒亲朋好友严加注意时，我们也给家人，自已都买了N95的口罩，但没有防护服。
Remind family and friends to pay close attention in private, we also give the family, buy their own N95 mask, but no protective clothing.
我们科室的医生上班时都戴了口罩，但这病的毒性太狠了。
The doctors in our department wear masks at work, but the disease is too poisonous.
1月8日，李文亮收治了一个82岁的青光眼带病患者，11日，李文亮开始发烧。
On January 8, Li Wenliang admitted an 82-year-old glaucoma patients, 11, Li Wenliang began a fever.
12日，我开始感到头痛不舒服。
On the 12th I began to suffer from headaches.
记：作为医生，你不舒服后采取的措施是?　　张：当时，按照我的医学知识(记者注：博士，留洋归来)，我知道自己也感染了。
Journalist: As a doctor, what you did when you were sick? Zhang: At that time, according to my medical knowledge, I knew I was infected.
我知道这个病毒第一代的毒性是最历害的。
I know the first generation of this virus is the most virulent.
12号当天，第一批“中招”的我还担心着家人。
On the 12th, I was still worried about my family.
之前，我回家和他们吃了一顿饭，虽然那顿饭我吃得非常小心，有意不讲话，用公筷。
Before that, I went home to have a meal with them, although I ate it very carefully, deliberately not to speak, using chopsticks.
这一天，我匆匆回到家里，收拾了些东西，就返回单位把自己“隔离”了。
That day, I hurried home, picked up some things, and returned to the unit to "isolate" themselves.
记：住进“隔离病房”?　　张：我们院又不是传染病医院，哪有多少隔离病房。
Reporter: Into the "isolation ward"? Zhang: Our hospital is not an infectious disease hospital, how many isolation ward.
我和另外几个同事，自己找了家酒店。
I found a hotel of my own with a couple of other colleagues.
那个时候，酒店已经没什么人了。
By that time, the hotel was empty.
我们和酒店说，房间里不需要他们打扫，我们自己做清洁，进出都消毒，用酒精消毒片擦。
We told the hotel that they were not needed to clean the room, we did our own cleaning, disinfecting everything in and out, and rubbing it with alcohol.
同时，我们向医院反应，要求 “照顾”好自己的职工，总不能让自己的职工都寒了心吧?但那时疫情已暴发了，一床难求，自已的职工都住不进去，医院要我们自行看门诊开药打针。
At the same time, we responded to the hospital, asked "take care" of their own staff, can not let their workers cold it? But then the outbreak of the outbreak, a bed difficult, their own staff can not live in, the hospital asked us to see out-patient medicine prescribed injection.
和普通病人相比，我们知道需要开些什么药。
We know what needs to be prescribed compared to the average patient.
我们是回到自己的科室打针的，同事间互相打针。
We go back to our own department and inject each other among our colleagues.
过了两天，也就是14号，院里终于腾出了“临时病房”，收治自己的职工，我们总算是住上院了，这时心里才平静了些。
Two days later, on the 14th, the courtyard was finally vacated for the treatment of our own staff, and we were at last in the Upper House, and our minds were calmer.
李文亮走了，有些人就那么心安理得?　　记：和普通的病人相比，你们算是特殊的病人了。
Li Wenliang left, some people so comfortable with it? Remember: compared with ordinary patients, you are a special kind of patients.
治疗期间，和医生的配合要默契多了吧?　　张：这个病的走势怎么样，我们算是比较了解。
During the treatment, and the doctor's cooperation to be more tacit understanding? Zhang: How the trend of the disease, we know.
毒性会进攻你的呼吸系统，神经系统，对肺，胃肠，肝脏，还可能会影响肾脏等。
Toxicity attacks your respiratory system, nervous system, lungs, stomach, liver, and possibly kidneys.
治疗期间，我们和医生有交流。
During the treatment, we had a conversation with the doctor.
一开始，我们就非常注意，从情绪，饮食，睡眠等方面照顾自己。
From the beginning, we took great care of ourselves in terms of mood, diet, sleep, etc.
治疗期间，戴好口罩，注意消毒等仍然是必要的。
During the treatment, wearing a mask, attention to sterilization is still necessary.
记：说到情绪，住院后的你一直是乐观的相信自己会好吗?　　张：一开始，我不是那么乐观的。
Q. Speaking of emotions, have you been optimistic about yourself since you were admitted to the hospital? Zhang: At first, I wasn't so optimistic.
记得住院的第一天，整个人都是崩溃的，我把遗嘱都想好了，也准备写了。
I remember the first day in hospital, the whole person is crumbling, I have all the will, also ready to write.
我的室友，带了一个超大寸的大箱子。
My roommate, he's got a big box that's an inch long.
我问她，你怎么带这么大的箱子，她说进来了，哪一天能够出去啊，能不能出去啊!一个年纪轻轻的女孩，漂亮女医生，说这些话时该是多么的绝望?　　记：你一起的病人都是你的同事，能说说你们住院时的情景吗?　　张：是的，我们院后来总共倒下了二、三百人!我们住在一起，情绪稳定后，大家开始自救，把自己当成特殊的病人了。
I asked her why you had such a big suitcase and she said she could go out someday, could you go out someday? A young girl, a beautiful female doctor, could you tell me something about your hospitalityZhang: Yes, our hospital collapsed two or three hundred people!
管床的医生和护士太忙了，护目镜都是湿的。
The doctors and nurses in the tube bed were too busy and the goggles were wet.
为了减轻他们的负担，我们仍然是互相间打针，利用各自的资源，买到治疗我们需要的药。
To lighten their burden, we continue to inject each other with our own resources and buy the medicines we need.
病人太多了，有些药没有了，但对于我们来说，情况要好一些，我们的私人资源要好一些。
There are too many patients, some medicine is gone, but for us, the situation is better, our private resources are better.
记：不好意思，得提到这个悲伤的事情了。
Reporter: Excuse me, I have to mention this sad thing.
按说李文亮也是医生，且那么年轻，但他却走了!　　张：打一开始，李文亮就是我们当中最重的了。
Li Wenliang is also a doctor and so young, but he's gone! Zhang: At the beginning, Li Wenliang was the heaviest among us.
治疗手段该上的都上了，但病情太重了。
The treatments were all due, but they were too heavy.
他逝世的那一天，我们都接受不了。
On the day of his death, we could not accept it.
一个和我们朝夕相处的年轻人，就这么走了?!!!他本来可以好好活着，迎接自己第二个孩子的降临。
A young man we were getting along with was gone! He could have been alive to welcome his second child.
面对他的亡魂，有些人就那么心安理得?　　记：治疗过程中，最难受的是什么阶段，哪个环节?　　张：住进去三四天后，我就缓解了许多，但后来又加重了。
In the face of his death, some people are so relieved to remember: In the course of treatment, what stage, which link? Zhang: After living in the hospital for three or four days, I feel a lot better, but then I get worse.
新冠病毒的反复性表现出来了。
The recurrence of the new crown virus has been demonstrated.
这个阶段 ，腹泻、疼痛，浑身无力等各种症状很痛苦，尤其是呼吸困难。
This stage, diarrhea, pain, physical weakness and other symptoms are very painful, especially breathing difficulties.
当你无力到连一口气也提不上来时，你就感到死亡的恶魔开始向你招手了，那种感觉太可怕了!这个阶段，你得靠顽强的意志撑过来。
When you are too weak to lift your breath, you feel the monster of death beckoning to you. It feels terrible! At this stage, you have to rely on tenacious will.
那一天，我的心里在想，我还有爸爸妈妈，还有没有长大的孩子……(说到这里，电话那来传来了长长的沉默，甚至有轻微地抽泣声)。
That day, my heart was thinking, I still have my parents, and whether I have grown up or not... (Speaking of which, there was a long silence and even a slight sob).
不要委屈生命，但还是用匿名吧　　记：这次太惨烈了。
Do not give in to life, but still use the anonymous bar note: this is too tragic.
经历了这一次生死关后，会有不一样的感受吗?　　张：作为医生，我们平时总会面对生老病死。
After going through this life-and-death experience, will there be a different feeling? Zhang: As doctors, we always have to face the death of old age.
但这次太难了。
But it's too difficult this time.
现在，我好想和爸爸妈妈，和孩子等在一起，活好每一天。
Now, I really want to live each day with my parents, my children and so on.
谁也不知道下一次会面临着什么，趁还活着的时候，让自己洒脱一些，不要委屈自己。
No one knows what will face next time, while still alive, let yourself be free, do not feel wronged.
记：战斗还在进行着，作为一名医疗科技人员，有什么想和你的同行，以及普通的市民说吗?　　张：想对同行说，虽然现在受到感染的人要轻一些，但千万别大意，认认真真的做好每个防护细节!对普通的市民说，珍惜生命，好好呆在家里吧!平时，要注意锻炼身体，别得高血压，糖尿病，心脏病等基础性疾病。
Zhang: As a medical scientist, what would you like to say to your colleagues, as well as ordinary citizens? Zhang: Although the number of infected people is lower, please don't be careless and do every detail carefully.
我观察到的，这次死亡的人，大多都是50以上，肺炎发生后，那些有基础性疾病的人更容易死亡。
I observed that most of the deaths were more than 50, and people with basic illnesses were more likely to die after pneumonia.
(自嘲)我这次挺了过来，同事们都打趣说，那是因为我瘦(平时每周在专业人会下的指导下，坚持有几次锻炼)。
(self-deprecating) I got through it this time, and my colleagues joked that it was because I was thin (I used to exercise several times a week under the guidance of a professional).
记：这次的采访 ，可以实名吗?我看到实名的医生越来越多了。
Reporter: This interview, can the real name? I see the real name of more and more doctors.
张：还是不要实名吧。
Zhang: I'd rather not have my real name.
到现在为止，我们每天都还有规定，不能发一些敏感字眼的东西。
Until now, we still have a rule every day not to send out sensitive words.
毕竟我们还是在武汉，要生活。
After all, we are still in Wuhan, to live.
实名的医生，你统计下，大多是外地的吧。
The real name of the doctor, you statistics, mostly from the outside world.
他们是有资格说实话的。
They are entitled to tell the truth.
无论是业务能力还是牺牲精神，我打心底敬佩他们。
I admire them from the bottom of my heart, whether it be business ability or sacrifice.
冒着危险，他们从全国各地来帮助武汉，要不是他们，武汉好多医院要瘫痪了。
At risk, they came from all over the country to help Wuhan, but for them, many hospitals in Wuhan would have been paralyzed.
(注，尊重患者意愿，我们用张芸来代替病愈医卫者的名字。
) With respect for the patient's wishes, we use Zhang kidney instead of the name of the healer.
)　　来源：武汉科技报　　记者：饶建平。
) Source: Wuhan Science and Technology Daily: Rao Jianping.
本帖只代表草民时代的个人观点，不代表人民网观点。
This post only represents the grass-roots people's personal point of view, not that of the people's network.
如将本文用于其他媒体出版, 请与草民时代联系。
If this article is used for other media publications, please contact the Grassroots Age.
举报。
Reporting.
微信扫一扫分享本帖到朋友圈。
Sweep through this post and share it with friends.
微信扫一扫分享本帖到朋友圈。
Sweep through this post and share it with friends.
无名小卒也。
No nobodies.
武汉医务人员的感染这病毒看来不同，有必要与不属于武汉的全国各国感染进行鉴别。
Wuhan medical staff infected with the virus seems to be different, it is necessary to identify the national infection that does not belong to Wuhan.
武汉的传染源与其他全国各国的传染源看来可能是不同的。
Wuhan source of infection and other countries in the source of infection seems to be different.
从轻症、普通症，可以看出。
From mild to ordinary disease, you can see.
。
.
顶(0)。
Top (0).
1楼。
1st Floor.
回复。
Response.
举报。
Reporting.
高原猎鹰。
Plateau Falcon.
官僚主义与形式主义并非行政管理部门的专利，就连一般的百姓家庭里都可能有官僚主义和形式主义，官僚主义和形式主义是必须要以撤谎为基础才能敷衍应付上级和大众。
Bureaucracy and formalism are not the exclusive domain of the administration. Bureaucracy and formalism can be found in the families of ordinary people. Bureaucracy and formalism have to be based on dishonesty in order to be able to cope with superiors and the public at large.
。
.
顶(0)。
Top (0).
2楼。
2nd Floor.
回复。
Response.
举报。
Reporting.
海之宁:“官僚主义与形式主义”虽然很有害，但可能还不至于搞伪科学。
Haizhingning: Bureaucracy and Formalism, though harmful, may not be a bogus science.
你可能觉得你如乎没有“官僚主义与形式主义”，但你想搞伪科学。
You may feel like you don't have "bureaucracy and formalism," but you want to engage in pseudoscience.
然而你搞的那些还称不上伪科学，充其量只能称伪东西。
What you're doing, however, is not pseudo-science, at best, false.
02月23日 21:42回复.流星如梦:形式主义比官僚注意更可怕02月23日 15:57回复.。
13: 42 Meteors are like dreams: more formalism than bureaucratic attention.
龙翔于天。
Long Xiang in the sky.
一句话，防民之口，甚于防疫。
In a word, the mouth of the people, more than vaccination.
官员们的维稳心态过于紧张，以至于神经过敏。
Officials are so nervous that they are nervous.
。
.
顶(1)。
Top (1).
3楼。
3rd floor.
回复。
Response.
举报。
Reporting.
昊胜:官员们不懂，把疫情消灭在萌芽状态才是真正的维稳02月23日 16:33回复.。
Haosheng: Officials did not understand that nipping the outbreak in the bud was the real thing to do.
勤劳的燕子。
Swallows hard-working.
刚刚看了武汉中心医院的网站，职工4300余人，中高级职称1420人，博士、硕士1206人，3381张床位，实力不凡，为什么医院不早点进行防范呢？。
The website of Wuhan Central Hospital has just been visited, with more than 4,300 employees, 1,420 middle and advanced titles, 1,206 doctors and master's degrees and 3,381 beds.
顶(2)。
Top (2).
4楼。
4th floor.
回复。
Response.
举报。
Reporting.
勤劳的燕子。
Swallows hard-working.
已经检验出病毒了，还不采取防范措施？医院那么多医生竟然麻木不仁？这个说不过去吧？求生的愿望是每个人的本能，为什么不做出反映保护医护人员呢？。
The virus has been tested, not to take preventive measures? So many doctors in the hospital are insensitive? Is this inexcusable? The desire to live is everyone's instinct, why not respond to protect health care workers?
顶(0)。
Top (0).
5楼。
5th floor.
回复。
Response.
举报。
Reporting.
IP比ID好:说都不让说，还敢采取措施？像现在那样穿上隔离衣、戴上防护镜？那不等于以实际行动“发布疫情”？不懂最好不要装懂，弄得自己说话前后矛盾······02月23日 18:18回复.。
IP is better than ID: not to say that we dare to do something about it? As now, wear protective clothing and glasses? That is not the same as the actual "release epidemic"? Do not understand the best do not pretend to understand, so their own talk inconsistent.
勤劳的燕子。
Swallows hard-working.
医院防范疫情这样的事也要等上级的命令？消毒是医院的本职工作，不要总拿李文亮说事，受训诫也是你们自己人举报的。
Hospitals should wait for orders from their superiors for such things as epidemic prevention? Disinfection is the primary job of hospitals. Don't always talk about things with Li Wenliang.
那么多博士，高级技术人才，竟然不如潜江的县领导？。
So many doctors, high-level technical personnel, unexpectedly inferior to the county leader of Qianjiang?
顶(0)。
Top (0).
6楼。
6th Floor.
回复。
Response.
举报。
Reporting.
朝山礼佛。
Chaoshan Ritual Buddha.
事到如今，武汉的医生说实话还有压力？。
So far, Wuhan doctors tell the truth and there is pressure?
顶(0)。
Top (0).
7楼。
7th floor.
回复。
Response.
举报。
Reporting.
朝山礼佛。
Chaoshan Ritual Buddha.
