鄂A牌车30小时归乡记 | 深度报道。
E-E's 30-hour homecoming report.
北青深一度                      。
North Qingsheng one degree.
北青深一度。
North Qingsheng one degree.
北京青年报深度报道部官方公众号。
Beijing Youth Daily in-depth coverage of the Department's official public number.
提供更深一度，更快一步的时事新闻资讯，守望变革中国的纵深阅读。
To provide a deeper and faster news of current events, and to keep watch for changes in China's in-depth reading.
。
.
记者/佟晓宇编辑/杨宝璐宋建华服务区工作人员在给他们的车消毒鄂A号车牌从来没有像如今一样惹眼。
Reporters / Tong Xiaoyu editor / Yang Polo Song Jianhua service area staff in disinfecting their car Hubei A license plate has never been as eye-catching as it is now.
1月23日，因为新型冠状病毒引起的肺炎，武汉切断对外交通。
On January 23, Wuhan cut off external transportation because of pneumonia caused by a new coronavirus.
全市城市公共交通暂停运营，无特殊原因市民不得离开武汉，机场、火车站也暂时关闭。
The city's public transportation is temporarily suspended. Citizens are not allowed to leave Wuhan without special reasons, and airports and railway stations are temporarily closed.
但很多人在此之前就离开了武汉，他们踏过桥路，回到家乡或者去往早就心仪已久的旅游地，猝不及防地，他们迎来了一场关于隔离与接纳的考验。
But many had already left Wuhan, stepped across the bridge to return home or head to long-cherished destinations, caught off guard by a test of isolation and acceptance.
常宁一家和他们的朋友们就卡在了这个时间点前后：在钟南山院士宣布确定人传人之前，他们放心地驱车外出度假；而在疫情爆发后，他们又不得不回到武汉。
The Changning family and their friends were stuck around this point: they drove their holidays with confidence until the academician Zhong Nan Shan announced that they were going on holiday; after the outbreak, they had to go back to Wuhan.
在30个小时中，她不得不一再告诉自己的孩子，别人只是怕病毒，而不是怕他们。
For 30 hours, she had to tell her children again and again that others were afraid of the virus, not of them.
开了30个小时的车，终于回到武汉最特别的除夕1月28号下午5点左右，我们从龚家岭下高速，经历了30个小时的路程，终于回到武汉，到家了。
After 30 hours driving back to Wuhan, the most special New Year's Eve January 28 around 5: 00 pm, we from Gong Jialing down the highway, after 30 hours, finally returned to Wuhan, home.
这大概是我们人生中最特别的30个小时。
This is probably the most special 30 hours of our lives.
1月17号，我们一家三口和妹妹一家三口，以及妹妹的闺蜜带着孩子，五个大人三个小孩，从武汉出发去长白山。
On January 17, our family of three, my sister's daughter and three children, five adults and three children, set out from Wuhan to Changbai Mountain.
我们三位女士开了一辆越野车，三人轮着开。
The three of us drove a Land Cruiser, three in turn.
两个爸爸就带着三个孩子，开了一辆商务车。
The two dads drove a business car with their three children.
大家想去长白山滑雪，这个计划去年就做了，双十一在网上订好了长白山的度假酒店。
Everyone wants to go skiing in Changbai Mountain. This plan was done last year, and Shuangxi booked the Changbai Mountain Resort Hotel online.
出发前，我就看到网上一些消息，说武汉发现了新型肺炎，医院里面有蛮多病人，但新闻说可防可控，只是有限的人传人，社区里的人看起来也并不紧张，一切如常。
Before I set out, I saw some news on the Internet that Wuhan had discovered a new type of pneumonia. There were quite a few patients in the hospital, but the news said it could be controlled, only a limited number of people from person to person.
我们根本想不到会这么严重，也没收到任何关于疫情的通知，所以我们出门都没想到要戴口罩。
We didn't expect it to be so serious and we didn't get any notice of the outbreak, so we didn't even think of wearing a mask when we went out.
不管是在山东住酒店、在天津看“天津之眼”，还是在沈阳逛故宫，都没有任何问题，在沈阳故宫买门票，就直接拿身份证去买，当时一切如常，这些地方人都比较多。
Whether it's staying at a hotel in Shandong, watching "The Eye of Tianjin" in Tianjin or visiting the Forbidden City in Shenyang, there's no problem in buying tickets at the Forbidden City in Shenyang.
直到21号才传来疫情变严重的消息。
It was not until the 21st that the outbreak became serious.
当时我们在沈阳，听到消息赶紧买口罩，那会儿口罩已经特别难买了，跑了四家药店，才买到两包一次性口罩。
We were in Shenyang when we heard the news and rushed to buy a mask. By that time it was very difficult to buy one.
钟南山院士的讲话我们也看了，意识到疫情比较严重，担心别人对我们从武汉来的会有想法，我们在沈阳就给长白山的度假酒店打电话，问他们，我们是武汉来的，能正常入住吗？如果不能我们就在沈阳停下，返回武汉。
In Shenyang, we called the Holiday Inn in Changbai Mountain and asked them if we were from Wuhan, could we check in normally? If not, we would stop in Shenyang and return to Wuhan.
酒店回复我们说没问题。
The hotel replied that no problem.
21号，我们顺利入住了长白山的度假酒店。
No. 21, we checked into the Holiday Inn in Changbai Mountain.
到了酒店，我们跟工作人员报备了我们的情况。
When we got to the hotel, we told the staff about us.
酒店的服务和应急措施做得不错，安排人给我们按时测量体温，我们住的大套房，中间一个大客厅两边有床，八个人基本就在同一个房间里，中餐直接送到房间，我们还到药店买了两个体温计，每天没事干就测体温。
The hotel's services and emergency measures were well done, we were given regular temperature measurements, we stayed in a large suite with a bed on either side of a large living room, eight people were almost in the same room, Chinese food was delivered directly to the room, and we went to the drugstore to buy two thermometers to take temperature every day.
之前预定了三个滑雪教练，交了定金。
Three ski coaches were booked and a down payment was made.
但怕带来不必要的麻烦，我们就主动跟教练沟通，说我们是武汉来的，如果教练介意我们就不去了，当时就有两个教练害怕，不想带我们了，我们就说如果介意的话我们可以不滑，最后只剩下一个教练愿意带。
But for fear of causing unnecessary trouble, we took the initiative to talk to the coach, saying that we were Wuhan, if the coach mind we do not go, then there were two coaches afraid, do not want to take us, we said if we mind we can not skate, only one coach would like to bring.
后来去医务室量了体温，我们体温都正常，当时其实已经感觉到事情严重，原来大家已经这么在意了。
Then I went to the infirmary to take our temperature, and we had a normal temperature, but by then we felt the seriousness of the situation.
22号，我们跟着那个教练去滑了雪。
22, we followed the coach to skate the snow.
回酒店看新闻，手机也不停的收到各种疫情相关的信息，也有朋友发信息提醒我，我们才真正意识到，疫情严重了。
Go back to the hotel to read the news, mobile phones are constantly receiving various epidemic-related information, but also a friend sent me a message to remind me, we really realize that the epidemic is serious.
我们的教练也很惨，回去就被隔离。
Our coach was miserable, too. He was quarantined on his way back.
我们赶紧跟酒店沟通，要求自行隔离，让他们把食物送到房间来，雪票也办理了延期，定在了明年。
We quickly contacted the hotel and asked to be quarantined so that they could bring food to their rooms, and the snowboarding was postponed until next year.
这时，各种各样关于疫情的消息席卷而来，武汉切断对外交通的消息也是那时传来的——我们从没想过会发生这么严重的事情。
At this time, a variety of news about the epidemic spread, Wuhan cut off the external traffic was also heard - we never thought that such a serious thing would happen.
我记得23号早上，除夕前一天，我们已经准备那天在房间里隔离，一个懒觉起来，睁眼就听到这样的消息。
I remember that on the morning of the 23rd, the day before New Year's Eve, we were ready to be quarantined in our room that day.
一时间，大家都蛮紧张的。
For a moment, everyone was nervous.
觉得疫情越来越严重，当时最担心的是家里的老人，新闻说死亡率高的都是老人，于是就不停地给家里打电话，叮嘱他们戴好口罩、尽量不要出门。
The most worried about the outbreak was the elderly. News reports said the death rate was high, so they kept calling home and telling them to wear masks and try not to go out.
因为没看到身边有真实的病例或危重的情况，家里老人还一直将信将疑。
Because did not see around the real case or the critical situation, the elderly family has always been skeptical.
我们隔两三个小时就要打个视频电话，看一看家里，叮嘱一下老人。
We would make a video call every two or three hours, take a look at the house and ask the old man.
我们还怕老人没吃的，因为23号时，据说当天很多超市在抢购，我们叮嘱老人不要去。
We were afraid of the old man did not eat, because on the 23rd, it is said that many supermarkets were snapping up, we told the old people not to go.
好在当时临近过年，家里囤了不少东西，至少两三天是够的。
Fortunately, the New Year approaching, the family hoard a lot of things, at least two or three days is enough.
这大概是我们在外面过的最特别的一个除夕。
It was probably the most special New Year's Eve we had ever spent outside.
从武汉出来时，我们带了一些吃的，酒店给我们送了人参炖鸡汤，我们自己做了一顿火锅，就这么吃了团圆饭。
When we came out of Wuhan, we brought some food, the hotel gave us ginseng stew chicken soup, we made a hot pot ourselves, just eat the reunion dinner.
回去，还是留下来之后我们不得不面对一个问题，到底是回去还是留下来？26号，景区因为肺炎而开始政策性关闭，我们跟酒店协商，毕竟开车回去太远了，2300多公里，酒店也跟当地政府沟通，但政策不停地变。
We had to face the question of whether to go back or stay after all.On the 26th, the scenic area began to be closed by policy because of pneumonia, and we negotiated with the hotel that it was too far to drive back.
一开始，酒店说可以满足我们住到29号，但是29号以后就不能确定了。
At first, the hotel said we could stay until the 29th, but it's not certain after the 29th.
我们想住到29号，就跟旁边镇政府联系，我们当时想找个地方单独隔离，但政府回应说只能集中隔离。
We wanted to stay until the 29th, contact the next town government, and we wanted to find a place to be isolated, but the government responded that we could only do it in isolation.
25号，政府工作人员告诉我们，集中隔离的地方似乎存在疑似病例，这就没法弄了，我们更不敢去了。
Twenty-five, government officials told us that there seemed to be a suspicious case in the central quarantine, so we couldn't do it, let alone go.
我们甚至报了警，警察说，这既不是治安事件，也不是纠纷，他们也没法安排。
We even went to the police, who said that it was neither a security incident nor a dispute, nor could they arrange for it.
家人和朋友都劝我们留在原地观察，先不要着急回。
Family and friends advise us to stay where we are and not to rush back.
大家商量了很久，很纠结：回吧，武汉处在疫情大爆发时，而且路上要连续开二十多个小时，一口气开回去挺危险的；不回吧，我们带着孩子，在外面不知道会发生什么。
They talked for a long time, very tangled: back, Wuhan in the outbreak of the outbreak, and the road to drive back more than 20 hours in a row, a very dangerous one; do not go back, we take the children, do not know what will happen outside.
我们搜集了关于疫情的各种信息，打了好多电话给各行各业的朋友询问。
We collected all kinds of information about the epidemic and made many phone calls to friends from all walks of life.
本想去沈阳待几天看看情况，为此还讨论了很长时间，设想各种会发生的情况，制定应对预案。
I'd like to go to Shenyang for a few days to see the situation. For this reason, we have discussed for a long time.
一直讨论到后半夜，最后大家目标一致，回。
It was discussed until the middle of the night, and finally everyone agreed, back.
我们原计划春节在外面过，每年也只有这个时候有假期，本来按计划我们会在28号返程，刚好初六，也要开始上班了。
We had planned to spend the Spring Festival outside. This was the only time of the year when we would have planned to return to work on the 28th.
但一切计划都赶不上变化。
But all plans cannot keep pace with change.
1月27日，我们上午11点多从酒店出来，直接上了高速。
On January 27th, we came out of the hotel at more than 11: 00 a.m. and went straight to the freeway.
我们不敢去超市补给，担心一去超市就把我们拦下来，就把爸妈的卤牛肉卤鸭翅蒸熟，带上酒店送的一箱矿泉水、3盒牛奶、一堆面包，就这样匆匆启程了。
We did not dare to go to the supermarket supplies, afraid to stop us to the supermarket, parents of halogen beef and duck wings steamed cooked, with the hotel sent a box of mineral water, 3 boxes of milk, a pile of bread, and so hurried away.
出发前一晚，我们发现越野车的轮胎上有划痕，磨损得很厉害，就到处联系修车，带我们滑雪的教练也帮我们联系修车师傅。
The night before we set out, we found that the SUV had scratches on its tires and was badly frayed. So we got in touch with the mechanic and the instructor who was taking us skiing.
修理厂过年都不开门，我们就在当地找人帮忙换胎，但别人一听说我们是鄂A的车，没人愿意帮忙。
The repair shop was closed for the New Year, so we got someone to help change the tire, but no one wanted to help us as soon as they heard that we were E-mail.
27号早上，我们觉得实在不能等了，没办法，两个爸爸只能自己动手把越野车的前后轮对调了一下。
On the morning of the 27th, we felt we could not wait any longer. The two dads had to set the SUV back and forth on their own.
前后轮胎对调要用到两个千斤顶，我们缺一个，就找别的司机借，后来找一个出租车师傅借到了，担心师傅介意我们是武汉的，我们就花300块钱把千斤顶买了下来。
We needed two jacks for the front and back tires, but we wanted one and borrowed it from another driver. Then we borrowed it from a taxi driver and worried that the master would mind our Wuhan, so we bought the jack for 300 yuan.
直到回到武汉了，两位爸爸才告诉我们，换胎时车子可能没有顶好，中间突然一下掉下来了，人差点就受伤。
Not until back to Wuhan, the two dads told us that the car may not be the best when the tire change, suddenly fell, almost injured.
一路上，加油都不敢摇下车窗成为“重点关注对象”一路上，我们体会到了什么叫重点关注对象。
Along the way, refueling did not dare to roll down the window to become "focus on the object of attention" along the way, we realized what is the focus of attention.
我们都经历过2003年非典，因此即便遭遇了一些麻烦，大家的整体状态都比较镇定。
We all experienced SARS in 2003, so even though we had some trouble, everyone was in a relatively calm state.
我们加了各种微信群，也知道鄂A车牌显眼。
We add a variety of micro-groups, also known as the E E plate conspicuous.
车停在酒店楼下时，我们在楼上就能看到车，大家就坐在窗边，坐一排从窗户往下看，看外面到底会发生什么事情或者有什么变化。
When we parked downstairs, we could see the car upstairs, sitting by the window and looking down the row of windows to see what was going on or what was going on outside.
还好，这期间什么都没发生。
Luckily, nothing happened in the meantime.
路过第一个服务区时，正好有个汽修厂开着门，我们就去加了个气。
As we passed the first service area, a garage opened the door, and we went to take a hike.
在加气的过程中，汽修厂的员工看到了车牌，就报警找来了警察。
In the process of adding gas, the employees of the garage saw the license plate and called the police.
警察很快就来了，我们登记了身份证、测量了体温。
The police arrived soon. We checked in our identity cards and took our temperature.
当时是晚上，我们想带着孩子到餐厅去吃个饭。
It was evening and we wanted to take our children to the restaurant for dinner.
但警察建议我们买出来吃，可是在北方，那么冷，东西买出来就冷了没法吃，我们也担心天气太冷孩子感冒。
But the police advised us to buy it, but in the north, it was so cold, it was too cold to eat, and we were worried about the cold weather.
当天晚上11点，我们在一个比较小的服务区找到一家拉面馆，做完常规检查后，进去吃了一口热腾腾的牛肉面，虽然只有三片牛肉，但还是忍不住热泪盈眶，就像做了错事一样，偷偷摸摸不能让别人知道我们是武汉人，孩子们都很懂事，不说话，就埋头吃。
At 11 p.m. that night, we found a noodle shop in a relatively small service area. After a routine check, we went in and ate a mouthful of hot beef noodle. Although there were only three pieces of beef, we couldn't help crying, just as we had done something wrong.
路上我们加了几个滞留在外地的武汉人的回乡群，大家都挺惨的。
On the way we added a few stranded Wuhan people to the countryside, we are all quite miserable.
我们也在群里帮大家想办法。
We're in the group trying to figure something out.
每看到群里有人“说我到家了，我到武汉了”，大家都会很激动，算是对彼此的一种鼓励。
Every time I see people in the group "said I arrived at home, I went to Wuhan," everyone will be very excited, as a kind of encouragement to each other.
大概到晚上12点时，大家都很困，从山东往天津走，雾霾特别厉害，路很黑，异常难走，我们心里都很害怕。
By about 12: 00 pm, everyone was very sleepy, from Shandong to Tianjin, the fog is very bad, the road is very dark, very difficult to walk, we are very scared.
走到半夜两点左右想休息一下，就找了服务区，保安过来，我们配合登记、测量体温。
Walking around two o'clock in the middle of the night to rest, we found a service area, security over, we cooperate with registration, temperature measurement.
我们跟保安说就在车上睡觉，休息一下，但到了四点多，工作人员来把我们叫醒，说服务区领导要来检查，如果看到你们武汉来的会比较麻烦，你们赶快走吧。
We told the security guard to sleep in the car and have a rest, but after four o'clock, the staff came to wake us up and said that the head of the service area would come to check it out.
我们就把小朋友都叫起来，上个卫生间，赶紧走了。
We just called the children up, went to the bathroom, and hurried away.
在高速路上面的各个休息区时，有两三次都是，工作人员一看到是鄂A牌照就会说话很凶，语气里带着脾气。
In each of the rest areas above the highway, there are two or three times, the staff will be very fierce to see the licence plate E, with a temper in the tone.
我们也想着，大过年的，还要做这些工作，一定很烦躁。
We also think that the New Year, but also to do these tasks, must be very irritable.
所以我觉得能理解，就调整自己的心态，好好跟人家讲。
So I feel able to understand, on the adjustment of their own mentality, to talk to others.
服务区有任何的要求，我们都配合，其实沟通过后，大家态度就都缓和了。
The service area has any request, we all cooperate, in fact, after the communication, everybody's attitude is relaxed.
其实在回程出发前，并没有特别的感觉，只觉得回去可能路上会比较辛苦，小孩子路上挺听话的，一直都很配合，但是能够感受到他们的恐惧。
In fact, before the return trip, there is no special feeling, only think that the road back may be more difficult, children on the road very obedient, always very cooperative, but can feel their fear.
一路上，我们必须把车停得离服务区很远，去卫生间要赶快跑着去，因为担心被别人看见，就不让我们进去了；吃饭时，也会告诉孩子们吃饭不要说话，赶快吃。
Along the way, we had to park so far from the service area that we had to run to the bathroom so we wouldn't be allowed in for fear of being seen.
既担心孩子们接触到其他人，会互相传染，也担心别人知道我们是武汉人把我们赶走。
Fear that our children will come into contact with others will infect each other, and that others will know that we are Wuhan people driving us away.
孩子们问过，他为什么不能让别人知道我们是武汉人，为什么他们要这样对武汉人？我就告诉他们，我们的城市病了，大家会有点害怕，但还是会帮助我们。
The children asked why he could not let others know that we were Wuhan people, why did they do this to Wuhan? I told them that our city was ill and people would be a little scared, but they would help us.
这是我们的家，不论她变成什么样子，我们都还是爱她的，所以我们要回家。
This is our home, no matter what she becomes, we still love her, so we have to go home.
孩子这样问的时候，我觉得挺无辜、挺委屈的，其实不应该因为我们是鄂A牌照就这样对待我们，并不是鄂A牌照的车就是感染病毒了，路上跑的别的车就能确认是安全的吗？就不应该用这种方式去划分，只是因为我们是武汉人的身份，就被排斥、被歧视。
When the child asked me this, I feel quite innocent, rather aggrieved, in fact we should not be treated like this because we are E E license plate, not E A license plate car or infected with the virus, can other cars on the road confirm that it is safe?
不应该是这样的，我们一起对抗的是病毒，而不是武汉人。
It shouldn't be like this. We're fighting the virus together, not the Wuhan people.
但我们不会跟孩子讲歧视与否的话题，对于孩子来说，我希望他们看到好的一面，必须得告诉他们一些正面的东西，这种不好的感受对小孩子打击挺大的。
But we don't talk about discrimination or not. For kids, I want them to see the good and have to tell them something positive.
孩子也问过，我们没有病，为什么不能好好滑雪？好在同行的有两位老师，一路上跟孩子讲解为什么会发生这样的事情，我们自我隔离，不乱走，是为了自己的安全，是对自己、他人和社会负责。
The child also asked, We are not sick, why can't we ski? Fortunately, there are two teachers with us, and we explain to our children why such things happen. We isolate ourselves, do not wander, are responsible for our own safety, others and society.
高速路口进行检查共同的敌人是病毒28日上午九点四十，当天到了第一个服务区，孩子们喊着饿了，我们就进休息区觅食。
The common enemy was the virus at 9: 40 a.m. on the 28th. When the first service area arrived, the children shouted hungry and we went into the rest area to look for food.
小孩子要去上厕所，走到一半就被服务区的一个大叔凶回来了，特别大声跟我们说，“干什么？不准去，站住站住！”小孩吓了一跳。
Children to go to the toilet, half of the service area by a uncle came back, particularly loud to us, "What? Don't go, stop!" The child started.
其实我们一路上都有心理准备，在每个服务区，如果让我们上卫生间我们就去，让我们吃饭我们就吃，如果不让我们去，我们就赶紧走，加油也是这样的。
We were mentally prepared all the way, in every service area, if we were allowed to go to the bathroom we would go, we would eat if we didn't let us, and if we didn't go, we'd just go, and refuel, too.
但被这样吼，我们大人都吓到了，当时就有些慌和害怕，也很心疼孩子。
But by this roar, we adults are scared, then a little panic and fear, but also very love children.
我们就去跟他沟通，我觉得即使当下有情绪，也不应该表现出来，如果一旦控制不好情绪的话，可能就会起冲突。
We went to talk to him, and I felt that even if there were emotions right now, they shouldn't show up, and if they weren't under control, there might be conflicts.
我觉得在这个时间节点上，愤怒或者委屈这些情绪于事无补，最重要的是解决问题，顺利回家。
I feel that at this point in time, anger or frustration doesn't help. The most important thing is to solve the problem and get home well.
跟他好好说了之后，人家就没说什么了，他让我们登个记，就放我们进去吃早餐了。
After a good word with him, they said nothing, he asked us to put down a note, let us go in for breakfast.
加油的时候，因为看到了我们的车牌，工作人员连车窗都不让我们打开，也不让我们下车。
When refueling, because we saw the license plate, the staff did not even let us open the windows, nor let us off.
把油加满了，付钱时候把手机二维码放在玻璃上，他来扫，一直没有任何沟通。
Fill it all up, put the phone's two-dimensional code on the glass while paying for it, and he sweeps, without any communication.
我是做医药行业，跟医生打交道比较多，整个回程过程中我们也很注意，很多人可能不太了解这个疾病或者防护的过程，多多少少会有一些恐慌，但可怕的是他们只是对你排斥，自己却并不做任何的防护。
I work in the pharmaceutical industry, I deal with doctors more, throughout the return process we are also very aware that many people may not understand the disease or the process of protection, more or less there will be some panic, but the fear is that they just ostracize you without any protection.
我们也做好了其他准备，提前联系辽宁的朋友准备住处，但最后决定一直开回武汉。
We also made other preparations to contact Liaoning's friends to prepare their lodging in advance, but finally decided to drive back to Wuhan.
我们一路还算顺利，从长白山上了高速之后，一直到武汉才下高速，中间没有下高速，因为一旦下了高速就很麻烦，怕被拦截。
We had a good ride, from Changbai Mountain to the high speed, until Wuhan under the high speed, there is no down-speed, because once off the high-speed is very troublesome, afraid of interception.
回到武汉境内，下了高速后，有一台警车要求所有车辆都要在那里登记，测体温，他们让我们不要慌张，还嘱咐我们生活上有什么困难要找社区。
Back in Wuhan, down the highway, a police car asked all the vehicles to register there, take temperature, they told us not to panic, but also told us to find the community in life.
一进城，我们三个妈妈情绪一下子就崩了，哭得挺厉害。
As soon as we got to town, all three of our moms burst into tears.
这一路上也有过紧张、害怕，大家本来都做好了发生各种情况的心理准备，有时心里面挺难过的，但路上我们任何一个人都不敢释放这种情绪，担心会影响到别的人，所以大家一路上还是正能量，互相鼓励互相逗乐。
There was tension and fear along the way, and we were all prepared for what was going on, sometimes painfully, but on the way none of us dared to let go of the feeling, fearing that it would affect others, so we were all in the right mood, encouraging each other to make fun of each other all the way.
下车后小孩子们很开心，一蹦老高。
After getting off the bus, the children were very happy and hopped high.
分手前，我们给三个孩子拍了几张照片，然后挨个把大家各自送回家，一个个道别。
Before we broke up, we took a few pictures of our three children and took each of them home to say goodbye.
分别时我们抱在一起，就像是刚刚一起经历过一场生死一样。
We held each other apart as if we had just experienced a life or death together.
这几天大家学会了调侃，说武汉人现在出名了，鄂A的车牌全国人民都知道了，每次看到这些，我都觉得很心酸，大家共同的敌人是病毒，而不是对方。
In the past few days, we have learned to make fun of the fact that Wuhan people are now famous, the license plate of E E A is known all over the country.
（为保护个人隐私，文中常宁为化名）【反侵权公告】本文由北京青年报与今日头条联合出品，未经授权，不得转载。
This article is jointly produced by Beijing Youth Daily and today's headlines. It is not allowed to be reproduced without authorization.
一个高铁“密切接触者”的自白：他就坐我旁边，没摘过口罩|深度报道我与“新型冠状病毒”搏斗的22天| 深度报道一个武汉红十字会志愿者的自述| 深度报道。
Confessions from a "close contact" with a high-speed train: He sat next to me, never taking off a mask and providing in-depth coverage of the in-depth coverage of a Wuhan Red Cross volunteer with whom I fought for 22 days and a new coronavirus.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
鄂A牌车30小时归乡记 | 深度报道。
E-E's 30-hour homecoming report.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "北青深一度";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at once.
var msg_title = "鄂A牌车30小时归乡记 | 深度报道";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; E & B & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "我们一起对抗的是病毒，而不是武汉人";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; we fought against a virus, not Wuhan & quot;;
title: '一个高铁“密切接触者”的自白：他就坐在我旁边，没摘过口罩 | 深度报道',。
A statement from high-speed rail's "close contact": He sat next to me and never took off a mask or face mask.
subject_name: '北青深一度',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '一个武汉肺炎康复患者的样本观察：我与新型冠状病毒搏斗的22天 | 深度对话',。
A sample of Wuhan recovering from pneumonia: I fought against the new coronavirus at & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & #
subject_name: '北青深一度',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '一个武汉红十字会志愿者的自述 | 深度报道',。
AT & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '北青深一度',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="北青深一度";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at once.
