武汉动物：遗弃、流浪、厮杀、死亡。
Wuhan animals: Abandonment, vagrancy, fighting, death.
刘倩。
Clinique Liu.
商业人物                      。
Business people.
商业人物。
Business people.
定义中国商业力量。
Defining China's commercial power.
作者：刘倩来源：商业人物（ID：biz-leaders)小芝带着手套、口罩和眼镜，亲手用三层床单包裹了父亲的遗体，对他说了最后一句话，“爸爸，我爱你”。
Wearing gloves, masks and glasses, she personally wrapped her father's body in three sheets and said the last words, "I love you, Dad."
将人抬走的时候，母亲扯着嗓子哭喊，“是我没有照顾好你”。
As they were being carried away, their mother cried out at the top of her voice, "I didn't take care of you."
和父亲分别不到一个月，再见已是天人永隔。
Less than a month separated from his father, goodbye is heaven forever.
母亲也被感染，住进了方舱医院，再回家见到的可能是两只猫的尸体。
The mother was also infected and admitted to the cabin hospital, where she could have seen the bodies of two cats.
小区被封闭、家中或许还残留着病毒，小芝没有办法带走小猫，不得不放弃。
The neighborhood is closed, the family may still have a virus left, little Zhi can not take away the kitten, had to give up.
武汉城内的独居宠物据保守估计也有数万只，作为救助留守宠物的志愿者和组织者，珊珊和故梦见到过饿死的猫狗，也见证过生命的顽强和努力——断水断粮一个月的猫狗还能活着，饿疯了的小猫撕烂了纱窗，成功越狱。
As volunteers and organizers of the rescue effort for pets left behind, Shan and her cat and dog who have died of starvation have also witnessed the tenacity and efforts of life - dogs and cats can survive a month without water or food. Hungry cats tear up the screens and escape.
如果那只小猫闯入外面的世界，大概也会像武汉街头的流浪猫狗一样，厮杀着只为抢夺一口吃食。
If the kitten had entered the outside world, it would have been like a stray cat and dog on the streets of Wuhan, fighting for a bite of food.
故梦看到过一个视频，几条骨瘦如柴的流浪狗在撕咬、啃食怀孕的小母猫，把狗赶走后，小猫浑身是血几乎被咬烂。
Dream saw a video, a few scrawny stray dogs in the bite, nibbling pregnant female cat, driving away the dog, kitten blood almost bitten.
它们不一定天生就是流浪的猫狗，也可能是被听信“猫狗可能携带新冠病毒”谣言的主人所遗弃，从亲近的“爱宠”变成被嫌弃的“异类”。
They are not necessarily stray cats and dogs, or abandoned by the owners of rumors that cats and dogs may carry the new crown virus, from close "pet" to ostracism.
小倩回家后也成了“异类”，“武汉来的”让她受到了社区额外的“关照”，“恨不得直接把我带走隔离”。
After returning home, Clinique also becomes a "heresy," "Wuhan" let her receive extra "care" from the community, "would like to directly take me away in isolation."
归期遥遥无期，两只猫昂贵的寄养费用压得小倩喘不过气。
With no end in sight, the two cats' expensive foster care costs have become prohibitive.
努力活着。
Live it up.
动物。
Animals.
人。
People.
壹珊珊用“恐怖”形容上门救助时看到的景象——无处不在的屎尿，发疯一样被拆了的家，就像进入了垃圾场。
What Shan describes as "horror" is the sight of the ubiquitous dung urine, the mangled home, as if it were a dump.
在漫长的独居时间里，小动物狂躁又恐惧，“我一般进门时找不到猫，它们一直处于恐惧状态，听到门响就会躲起来，很少有一开门就跑过来或者很开心的”。
During the long solitude, the animals became wild and frightened, "I don't usually find cats when I come in, they're always in a state of fear, they hide when they hear the door, and very few come running or are happy when they open the door."
因为躲得无影无踪，一只濒死的小猫或许失去了它唯一活下来的机会。
A dying kitten may have lost its only chance of survival because it has disappeared from view.
珊珊去到它家时，屋里味道很大，猫砂盆脏得完全无法清洗；食水还有，只是水很脏；所有东西都很乱，床头柜被翻倒，抽屉被打开，零食被撕咬；小猫躺在角落里一动不动，看到珊珊后一下子躲了起来。
When Shan got to her house, the house was smelly, the cat basin was completely dirty; the water was dirty; everything was messy, the bedside table was turned over, drawers were opened, snacks were torn; the kitten lay motionless in the corner, and when she saw Sandra, it hid.
“我觉得它肯定生病了”，珊珊本来是受主人之托接走小猫的，找不到它只好作罢，留下了充足的食水，还附带了全屋的保洁，“不收拾干净，小猫会吃垃圾”。
"I think it must be sick." Shan, who had been entrusted by her master to pick up the kitten, had no choice but to leave plenty of water and a clean house. "If you don't clean up, the kitten will eat garbage.
收到求助、问清情况、上门救助，成为2月底以来珊珊每日的工作，和她一起的还有二十多人。
Received help, asked questions, home help, since the end of February Shan daily work, with her more than 20 people.
他们是武汉民间志愿者团队——“007车队”分出的救助留守宠物小分队。
They are Wuhan non-governmental volunteer team - "007 team" out of the rescue left-behind pet team.
“007车队”原名“123车队”，成立于武汉“封城”当日——1月23日，开始时接送医护人员、运送防疫物资，后来承担起了帮助居民买菜的任务，到2月底，又分出了两支小队，一队救助孤寡老人，一队救助留守宠物。
Originally named "Team 123," the convoy was set up in Wuhan on January 23, the same day that Wuhan "closed the city" - the beginning of the delivery of medical personnel and epidemic prevention supplies, then took over the task of helping residents buy vegetables, by the end of February, a team to help the elderly left alone, a team to save pets left behind.
珊珊从车队成立之初就加入其中，作为土生土长的武汉人，她第一次见到如此空旷的武汉，“路上很空，到处都是’武汉加油’，看着很心酸，我就想跑快一点，帮助一下他们，也是帮助我们自己”。
Shan joined the team from the beginning, as a native Wuhan, she first saw such an empty Wuhan, "the road is very empty, everywhere is filled with 'Wuhan refueling', looking very sad, I would like to run faster, help them, but also to help ourselves.
在她眼中，武汉正在慢慢恢复秩序，医护人员接送和居民购物问题相继得到解决后，珊珊转向了之前被忽略的宠物群体，“人类和病毒抗争，也不应该牺牲猫狗的性命”。
In her view, Wuhan is slowly returning to order, hospital transport and shopping problems have been solved, Shan turned to the previously neglected pet community, "human and virus resistance, and should not sacrifice the lives of dogs and cats."
武汉宠物救助的团队还有很多，比如“武汉市保护小动物协会”、“武汉土猫同好会”，以及故梦组织的微信帮喂互助群。
Wuhan pet rescue teams, such as the "Wuhan City Association for the Protection of Small Animals," "Wuhan Native Cats with Good Society," as well as the organization's micro-letter help mutual help groups.
故梦说，这是个“完全的民间组织”，有人上门帮喂免费，有人会按距离收一些跑腿费。
So dream, this is a "complete civil society organizations," someone to help feed free of charge, some people will distance some running errands.
而故梦的工作就是“协调配对、解决纠纷、提示风险、公告群规”，最开始一天要花费20多个小时处理群内事务。
The dream job is to "coordinate matchmaking, resolve disputes, signal risks, and announce group rules," which initially takes more than 20 hours a day to process intra-group transactions.
群里最重要的一条规则是：帮喂人必须向求助人出示身份证、告知电话号码，上门过程全程录像。
One of the most important rules in the group is that the helper must show his identity card, give his telephone number, and videotape the whole process.
故梦以为自己会承担风险，“但感觉还好，互不认识的人进到一个群里，就这样信任了陌生人，让别人去自己家开锁”，她觉得这种信任很神奇。
The belief that she would take risks, "but it felt good that people who did not know each other came into a group, trusted strangers and let others unlock their own homes."
开锁师傅、宠物店主、宠物用品销售商、宠物医生，凡是有需要的故梦都拉进了群里，形成了“一条龙服务”。
Lock master, pet shop owner, pet product seller, pet doctor, whatever the need for old dreams are pulled into the group, formed a "one-stop service."
进群的宠物店被“盘活”，在不能开门营业的日子里，还可以通过接收寄养、售卖宠物用品维持，不至于落到关店倒闭、遣散动物的地步。
Pet shops are "invigorated" and can be maintained by receiving foster care and selling pet items on days when they are unable to open their doors, so that they do not end up shutting down or demobilizing animals.
故梦的群短短几天就超过了2000人，她按区域拆分出了数个小群，有商家嗅到了商机想要合作，“我把所有客户、供应商集结在一起，还是按区域规划好的，就是一个精准的客户群”。
Dreams outnumber 2, 000 in a matter of days. She splits small groups of people by region, sniffs out business opportunities and wants to collaborate. "I bring all my customers, suppliers together, or by region, it's an accurate customer base."
但故梦拒绝了，她不想把纯粹的善事变成商业行为，“我没有从中牟一分利”。
But the dream refused, and she did not want to turn pure charity into business. "I didn't profit from it."
贰小芝在决定放弃前犹豫了很久，她不敢让珊珊冒险上门帮喂，就想着自己回一趟爸妈家，把猫接出来。
Little Zhi decided to give up before hesitating for a long time, she did not dare to let Shanshan risk door-to-door help Hey, think of their own back to Mom and Dad's house, to pick up the cat.
一年前，为了工作方便，小芝从汉口搬到了光谷，平时家里只有父母和两只小猫。
A year ago, Toshiba moved from Hankou to Guanggu for the convenience of her work.
1月23日，准备回家过年的小芝因为父亲“感冒”没有回去，这对她来说是父母保护下的幸运，也是终生的遗憾——她没有见到父亲最后一面。
On January 23rd, little Zhi, who was going home for the New Year, did not return because her father had a "cold," a blessing under her parents' protection and a lifelong regret that she had not seen her father for the last time.
从出现感冒症状到去世，小芝的父亲只挨过了6天，没有被收治住院，也没有通过核酸检测得到确诊，猝然在家中离世。
From the onset of cold symptoms to death, Ganoderma's father had only six days, was not admitted to hospital, and did not have a nucleic acid test confirmed, suddenly died at home.
“听到父亲去世的消息，有一种家破人亡的感觉，他走的时候一点尊严都没有”。
"There was a sense of destruction when he heard of his father's death. He left with no dignity at all."
父亲的遗体在家中停放了12个小时，殡仪馆要求家属自己消毒、包裹好，最后是穿着防护服的社区医生和只戴着口罩、手套、普通眼镜的小芝母女一起处理的遗体。
The father's body remained at home for 12 hours, and the funeral home asked the family to disinfect and wrap themselves, and finally the body of the community doctor in protective clothing and the mother and daughter of little Ganoderma, wearing masks, gloves and ordinary glasses.
在用三层床单把父亲遗体包裹起来的时候，小芝说，“爸爸，我爱你”。
"I love you, father," said little Zhi, wrapping up his father's body with three sheets.
小芝甚至没有时间悲伤，母亲紧接着被感染，求医无门，几经辗转才住进了方舱医院，家里的两只猫彻底无人照顾了。
Little Zhi did not even have time to grieve. The mother was immediately infected and sought medical attention. After tossing and turning, she was admitted to the cabin hospital.
“像噩梦一样，说实话根本顾不上猫，我也很后悔没有提前安置它们”。
"Like a nightmare, I honestly don't care about cats at all, and I regret not having put them in place in advance."
小芝去救猫最大的障碍是不能离开她居住的小区，“一听救猫就说不行，’人都管不过来，何况动物’”。
Little Zhi to save the cat's biggest obstacle is can not leave her residential area, "a listen to save the cat said no, 'people can not manage, not to mention the animals'.
小芝还在四处想办法，母亲却坚决要求放弃，“她觉得对不起猫咪，但是更担心我，她直接说，如果你去接猫咪，我就不治疗了”。
"She felt sorry for the cat, but she was more worried about me. She said directly," If you pick up the cat, I won't treat her. "
住院以来，母亲的情绪一直处在崩溃的边缘，自责没有照顾好丈夫，“我妈根本接受不了，她觉得父亲只是出去遛弯，一会儿就回来了”；担心自己撑不过去，“她同事的老公也去世了，这个病恶化起来很快的”；觉得对不起小猫，“一提猫咪的事情就会哭”。
"My mother can't take it at all. She thinks her father is just going for a stroll and will be back in a few minutes." "Worried that her co-worker's husband is dead and the illness worsens quickly.
母亲生病一个多月，迟迟未愈，甚至还有恶化的迹象，原本定好的出院时间只能推迟。
The mother had been ill for over a month, and there were signs of deterioration, and the scheduled discharge from hospital had to be postponed.
每推迟一天，小猫存活的几率就减少一分，得知离开方舱医院还要去隔离点观察14天才能回家，小芝母亲的情绪更加崩溃——小猫无论如何都撑不到那个时候了。
With each day off, the kitten's chances of survival were reduced by one point. Knowing that she would have to stay in quarantine for 14 days before returning home, Toshiba's mother became even more upset - the kitten would not survive any longer.
“武汉的人和动物都太惨了”，小芝最终还是不得不放弃，“我现在都没办法看手机里的照片，看到猫咪的就受不了”。
"Wuhan people and animals are too sad," XiaoZhi finally had to give up, "I can not see the phone photos, the cat can not bear to see.
小倩的猫是幸运的，它们至少不会有生命危险。
Clinique's cats are lucky, at least not life-threatening.
按照她原本的计划，1月21日回老家过年，2月1日就会回到武汉，“如果当时知道疫情这么严重，我肯定会选择不走，或者把小猫带回家”。
She originally planned to return to her hometown for the New Year on January 21 and Wuhan on February 1. "If I had known the epidemic was so serious, I would have definitely chosen not to leave or take the kitten home.
寄养的费用是一天120元，不包括猫粮和猫砂，一个月下来将近4000元，店主最终优惠到2000元。
Foster care costs 120 yuan a day, excluding cat food and cat sand, a month down nearly 4000 yuan, shopkeeper finally discount to 2000 yuan.
这对小倩来说仍然是一笔巨大的开支，除此之外她还要支付房贷、租房费，加起来七八千，而原本的工资从三月开始也不再全额发放，“武汉的企业，其实都挺难熬的”。
In addition to paying the mortgage and renting fees, which add up to seven or eight thousand, the salaries won't be paid in full since March. "Wuhan enterprises, in fact, are pretty tough."
虽然压力巨大，但小倩很庆幸在小区封闭之前，让一直帮喂的宠物店主接走了小猫，“我觉得这个决定还是挺明智的，这种时候放在家里，不就是等死吗”。
Despite the pressure, Clinique is lucky to have her cat picked up by the pet owner who has been helping her feed her before the neighborhood closes. "I think it's a wise decision.
不管再怎样困难，小倩都没有想过放弃她的两只猫，“我从小就喜欢猫，养得久了，它们就像我的孩子”。
No matter how difficult it is, Clinique doesn't want to give up her two cats. "I've loved cats since I was a kid, they're like my kids."
叁“你上门去把我家猫处理了吧，随便怎么处理。
"You go to my house and take care of my cat, do as you like.
”在“宠物也可能感染新冠肺炎”的消息未经证实便被广泛传播的第二天，故梦群里的帮喂人接到了十几个电话，全都是要求上门“处理”猫狗的。
"The day after word spread that pets could also contract pneumonia, the help in the dream group received a dozen calls asking them to come in and" dispose "of dogs and cats.
对方说得很隐晦，但帮喂人确定没有会错意，所谓“处理”，是指杀掉、抛弃。
The other side is very vague, but help feed people to make sure that there is no misunderstanding, so-called "deal" refers to kill, abandon.
1月29日，世界卫生组织在官网回应，“没有证据显示猫狗等宠物会感染新型冠状病毒”。
"There is no evidence that pets such as cats and dogs will be infected with the new coronavirus," the World Health Organization said on its website.
故梦最生气的就是遇到不负责任的主人。
The most angry dream is to meet the irresponsible host.
嫌一个月600块的寄养费贵，主人直接放弃了他的狗，告诉店主“你自己想怎么处理怎么处理吧，或卖或丢或送人，我回头要是找你要，我都不是人”。
The owner of the 600-dollar-a-month foster care fee gave up his dog and told the owner, "Do what you want to do with it, sell it or lose it or give it away.
进到群里不咨询、不求助，直到猫快要饿死了，帮喂人想免费上门救助，却被主人莫名其妙拒绝，“反正快不行了，就让它自己饿死算了”。
Into the group do not consult, do not help until the cat is starving to death, to help feed people want to free door-to-door assistance, but the host inexplicably refused, "Anyway, nearly dead, let it starve to death.
“可能在封闭小区，或者更早之前，已经有一大部分人放弃了，找到我们的，都还是对生命有敬畏的”，珊珊会竭尽所能地帮助他们，但求问心无愧。
"It is possible that a large part of the population has given up in closed communities, or earlier, and that those who find us are still in awe of life." Sandra will do all she can to help them, but with a clear conscience.
武汉市内的流浪猫狗与之前相比有所增多，其中很多明显是家养宠物。
The number of stray cats and dogs in Wuhan, many of which are apparently domestic pets, has increased.
好心人没有放弃它们，珊珊看到有人在喂流浪猫，一把猫粮撒出去就会引来十几只，还有拾荒老人收留了十几只流浪猫狗，带着它们住在桥洞。
Good-hearted people did not give up on them, Shanshan saw someone feeding stray cats, a cat food scattered out will attract a dozen, and pickup old people took in a dozen stray cats and dogs, and took them to live in the bridge hole.
不管是人还是动物，不管是流浪猫狗还是留守宠物，他们都在用力活着。
Whether it's humans or animals, stray cats and dogs, or pets left behind, they are struggling to survive.
断粮一个月的小猫把家里能吃的都吃了，甚至火锅底料也没有放过，状态还很好；两只小猫在家里相依为命地活了下来，还有了宝宝；治愈出院的主人回到家惊喜地发现饿了一个月的狗狗还活着，围着他上蹿下跳……故梦因疫情失去了工作，却因为组织帮喂互助群深入了解了宠物行业。
After a month without food, the kitten ate all the food in the house, even the hot pot ingredients, and was in good shape. The two cats survived and had babies. The two cats came home and were pleasantly surprised to find the dog alive for a month.
疫情过后，她计划成立一个宠物救助协会，安置流浪猫狗，找人领养，“巧合使我做了这样的事，产生的蝴蝶效应是我没预料到的，这是天意”。
After the outbreak, she plans to set up a pet rescue association to house stray cats and dogs for adoption. "Coincidence caused me to do this, the butterfly effect was unexpected, it was providential."
小倩在家里日日工作到深夜，还不忘和店主视频，看看小猫，“可能女生天生有母爱，猫就像自己的小孩一样，一天不见就会想”。
"Maybe a girl is born with a mother's love, a cat is like her own child, and will think after a day or two."
小芝的妈妈顺利出院，正在隔离点进行观察，离回家的日子一天天近了，期待着猫咪身上会有“奇迹”发生。
Xiao Zhi's mother smoothly discharged from the hospital, is isolated point for observation, away from home day by day, looking forward to the cat will have a "miracle" happen.
相依为命还有了宝宝的小猫迎来了新生，4只小猫活下来了2只。
The kitten, who lives alone and has a baby, was born. Four kittens survived two.
在珊珊发来的视频中，刚刚出生的小猫挤在猫妈妈身边，在粉红色的小窝里，奶声奶气地叫着。
In a video from Shan, the newborn kitten huddles next to the cat's mother, in a pink cubicle, squealing mildly.
（应受访者要求，文中人名皆为化名）*图片为受访者提供推荐阅读严正声明：“商业人物”所有原创文章，转载均须获授权。
2007-9-25 21: 48 All original articles by "business people" must be authorized to be reproduced.
一切形式非法转载，包括但不限于盗转、未获“商业人物”授权通过第三方转载行为，均属侵权行为，“商业人物”将公布“黑名单”并追究法律责任。
All forms of illegal reproduction, including, but not limited to, theft and unauthorized reprinting by a third party without the authorization of a "business person," who will publish the "blacklist" and will be held liable.
“商业人物”只愿与尊重知识产权的机构合作。
"Business people" are willing to cooperate only with institutions that respect intellectual property rights.
投稿、约访、合作，联系邮箱：bizleaders@qq.com添加微信biz-leader，获转载授权或邀您加入商友群微信名：商业人物微信ID：biz-leaders1.长按右侧二维码即可关注。
Subscriptions, interviews, collaborations, contact mailboxes: bizleaders @ qq.com, get permission to reprint, or invite you to join the microphone group of business people: micro-ID: biz-leaders1. Click on the two-dimensional code on the right.
2.期待您置顶与星标。
2. Expect you to place your top and star.
欢迎分享与评论，欢迎通过留言或私信方式给我们提供选题线索。
Welcome to share and comment, welcome to leave a message or private letter to us to provide clues to the topic.
3.点击“阅读原文”，看商业人物官网，获取更多精彩内容。
3. Click on "Read the original text" to see the official website of business people, to get more wonderful content.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉动物：遗弃、流浪、厮杀、死亡。
Wuhan animals: Abandonment, vagrancy, fighting, death.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "商业人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
var msg_title = "武汉动物：遗弃、流浪、厮杀、死亡";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Wuhan Animal: Abandonment, vagrancy, fighting, death & quot;;
var msg_desc = "都在用力活着。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; all worked hard.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '给体育大年算本账',。
AT & P's expense & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '企业法人胡锡进',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '没体检、没隔离、没有名分的方舱志愿者',。
A: No medical check-up, no quarantine, no name at all. & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="商业人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
