她们想躲开的，是疫情，更是中介。
What they want to avoid is the outbreak, but also the intermediary.
施洪丽。
Shu Hongli.
尖椒部落                      。
Pepper tribe.
尖椒部落。
Pepper tribe.
尖椒部落，放大妳的声音！中国女工专属资讯平台，欢迎您关注！。
Pepper tribe, amplify your voice! Chinese female workers exclusive information platform, welcome to pay attention!
作者施洪丽一出手，带来四位家政工的故事。
Author Shi Hongli, brought the story of four domestic workers.
请注意到她一开始对那间美好世界的单身公寓出租屋的描写：是那么详细，那么数据化——一个她们称为家的地方。
Notice her initial description of the single-person apartment in the beautiful world: so detailed, so dataturized - a place they call home.
简单的行李和床后面牵扯着的是一张稀里哗啦的中国地图：延庆的雪，高粱地里的两天两夜，风景优美、经济落后的山水里需要被锄掉的杂草。
Behind the bed and the simple luggage is a scattered map of China: Yanqing snow, sorghum two days and nights, beautiful scenery, economic backwardness of the landscape to be uprooted weeds.
随着空间展开的，还有时间。
As space unfolds, there is still time.
可是随着时间的推移，令这些年过半百、什么苦都吃过的女性恐惧的东西，竟然一点也没有少。
But as time went on, there was not a shred of fear among these women, who were more than fifty years old and ate every hardship.
她们想躲开的，是疫情，更是中介。
What they want to avoid is the outbreak, but also the intermediary.
——写作指导/特约编辑：静远北京东五环外有座城中村——皮村，首都机场就在村子附近。
The Capital Airport is near the village of Pi, a small village outside the East Fifth Ring Road in Beijing.
从公交站下车，步行十分钟左右，有一栋名为美好世界的单身公寓楼。
Get off at the bus stop and walk for about ten minutes. There is a single apartment building called Beautiful World.
楼里都是出租屋，其中201室里住着四位租客。
The building was full of rented rooms, of which 201 were occupied by four tenants.
这间公寓约20平，带厨卫，有两张一米五的床，一个小衣柜，一张写字桌。
The flat was about 20 square, with kitchen guards, two beds measuring 1.5 meters, a small wardrobe and a writing table.
每月租金是1200元，卫生费20元，电按照一元一度算，一年1200的暖气费，WiFi每月50元。
The monthly rent is 1200 yuan, the health fee is 20 yuan, the electricity calculates according to one yuan, a year 1200 heating fee, WiFi 50 yuan per month.
所有费用四人平摊。
All costs are shared equally among four.
这四位都是家政工，分别为月嫂赵红梅、李爱菊、钱桂兰，和育儿嫂周春月。
These four are domestic workers, for the month sister-in-law Zhao Hongmei, Li Aiju, Qian Guelan, and Sister-in-law Zhou Chunyue.
往年的正月初八之后，她们大多都在雇主家做家政挣钱。
In previous years, after the eighth month of the first month, most of them are in the employer's house to earn money.
而今年，眼看元宵节已过了八天，她们其中三个都还呆着屋子里：都在隔离中，且已失业。
This year, eight days after the Lantern Festival, three of them were still in the house: isolated and unemployed.
而不在屋里的那位，名叫钱桂兰，因为老家封村封路，现在还出不来。
But the one who is not in the house, named Qian Guilan, because his hometown sealed the road, now can not get out.
（本文图片如无说明均为作者提供）几位家政阿姨原本相互不熟悉。
(This picture is provided to the author if the picture does not provide) Several domestic aunts were not familiar with each other.
家政公司都有微信群，每位阿姨有多个家政群，公司抽中介费实在太高（一般的，抽工资的30%，高的抽50%，每个月都要抽），所以逼得大家要私下在不同的中介公司微信群里揽活，梦想找到中介费最低的公司。
Home economics companies have micro-groups, each aunt has multiple household groups, the company smoking intermediary fees are really too high (general, 30% of wages, high 50%, every month to smoke), so people have to privately in the intermediary of micro-groups, dream of finding the lowest intermediary fee companies.
活跃在这些群里，一来二往，就互相认识了。
Be active in these groups, come and go, get to know each other.
通过微信，想法一致的阿姨们一合计：合租房吧。
Through the micro-letter, like-minded aunts a total: rent-sharing bar.
很多家政工是住在家政公司的，这样其实有很多弊端。
Many domestic workers live in domestic companies, which has many disadvantages.
因为家政公司为阿姨提供住宿，对应的，阿姨们就必须在该公司揽活；在公司住宿，大家天天见面，有些家政公司以培训为幌子，反复收培训费，如果阿姨拒绝，即遭公司排斥；家政中介公司提供的住宿条件差，还需缴纳费用。
Because the company provides accommodation for aunts, aunts have to live in the company; accommodation in the company, people meet every day, some domestic companies under the guise of training, repeated training fees, if aunts refuse to be rejected by the company; domestic intermediary companies provide poor accommodation and pay a fee.
而自己租房，一是自由，可以到不同的公司找活，有时可以逃避公司抽中介费，偶尔接点私活多挣钱，二是晚上还能睡舒服些。
On the other hand, they rent houses freely, can find jobs in different companies, sometimes evade the company's intermediary fees, occasionally contact more private work to earn more money, and at night can sleep more comfortable.
由于公司抽中介费，而且雇佣双方都抽，所以有些雇主也想摆脱这样的情况，也不愿意花这个钱。
Some employers also want to get out of this situation and are reluctant to spend the money because of the company's middleman fees and the fact that both employers smoke.
他们往往也与阿姨私下联系，节省中介费。
They also often communicate privately with their aunts, saving on intermediaries.
家政工流动性大，家政公司不愿担责，不给阿姨保障，所以不与阿姨签合同。
Domestic workers are very mobile, home companies do not want to bear the responsibility, do not give aunt protection, so do not sign a contract with aunt.
因此阿姨们这样做，家政公司是不管的，当然也无权管。
So aunts do this, the home company is regardless of, of course, have no right to regulate.
一月嫂赵红梅是去年六月份才搬进来的，是位川嫂子，说话干脆直爽。
Sister-in-law Zhao Hongmei moved in last June. She is a sister-in-law in Sichuan.
以前住公司宿舍，有点打呼噜。
I used to live in a company dorm, snoring.
宿管老师（编者注：中介公司提供的住处的管理人员）不喜，常斥责，说影响别人休息。
Boarding teachers (note to editors: managers of accommodation provided by intermediary companies) do not like, often reprimanded, said to affect the rest of others.
赵红梅刚接过一单。
Zhao Hongmei just took over one.
其实过节期间本不打算接单，想带女儿到延庆赏雪。
In fact, the holiday period did not intend to take orders, want to take my daughter to Yanqing snow appreciation.
女儿稀罕雪，说，没好好看过。
Daughter rare snow, said, did not have a good look.
计划没有变化快，临近春节时公司告知有客户，赵红梅想了想，还是上吧。
The plan did not change fast, the company informed that there are customers near the Spring Festival, Zhao Hongmei thought, or on it.
家里老公有慢阻肺，丧失劳动能力，每天还要吸氧，吸药。
The husband at home has slow resistance to lung, loss of ability to work, daily oxygen, inhaled drugs.
家里早年间修了两层小楼，不符合国家扶贫优惠对象，除了新农合报销部分医药费，其他全是自费，这些年就是靠着红梅做月嫂挣点血汗钱，维持老公的药费和家里的基本开销。
In the early years, the family built two small buildings, not in line with the national preferential treatment targets, in addition to the new rural co-payment of part of the medical expenses, all the others are self-funded, these years is relying on red plum as a sister-in-law to earn some blood money, maintain her husband's drug costs and basic expenses at home.
所以一看有挣钱的机会，哪容错过，其它事情来日方长。
So a look at the opportunity to earn money, which can not be missed, other things come and go.
准确地说，赵红梅知道新冠肺炎还是武汉封城那天，宝妈告诉她的。
To be exact, Zhao Hongmei knew that the new crown pneumonia or Wuhan sealing day, the mother told her.
她没上户之前，偶然从百度浏览上看了一次，说是谣言，每天为生计奔波，也没有把心思放在这上面。
She did not go to the house, by chance from Baidu browse, said it is rumor, every day for a living, also did not focus on this.
月嫂是高薪，要求严厉，上户不许看手机，据说手机辐射对新生儿健康不利，除非有重要的事，平常都是调成静音，晚上22点之后，才能看20分钟的微信或百度信息。
Sister-in-law is a high-paying, strict requirements, mobile phones are not allowed to see, mobile phone radiation is said to be harmful to the health of newborns, unless important things, are usually quiet, after 22 p.m. to see 20 minutes of micro-mail or Baidu information.
当然每天超负荷劳作，人只想睡觉，哪有时间亲近手机。
Of course, daily overwork, people just want to sleep, no time to get close to the mobile phone.
疫情严重与否，赵红梅很大一部分是从宝爸口中得知，宝爸每天都会从超市、小区带回来一些故事。
Whether the outbreak is serious or not, Zhao Hongmei is a large part of the treasure father from the mouth, treasure every day will bring back some stories from the supermarket, small area.
蓝衣服大爷与白帽子大妈争抢西红柿，操东北口音的大姐吐槽大白菜价格超过鸡蛋，宝妈要吃的肝肾买不到，快递不许进小区，小区开始测体温，小区开始登记，小区只许两天出去一次买菜，小区开始封闭式管理……另一部分信息，来自手机上的疫情新闻，和街对面的汉庭酒店。
The big sister spitting cabbage cost more than eggs, the liver and kidney she wanted to eat could not be bought, express delivery was not allowed into the community, cell temperature began to register, small community only once a two-day shopping, small community began to close management...
赵红梅每天上下午要开窗通风两次。
Zhao Hongmei opens the window twice every morning and afternoon.
武汉封城之前，酒店门口车水马龙。
Wuhan before the closure of the hotel door traffic.
封城之后，门可罗雀。
After the siege, the door is empty.
种种迹象显示，疫情严重了。
There are indications that the epidemic is serious.
家政姐妹每天在群里传递疫情信息，测体温，打卡，发定位。
Every day, the domestic sisters deliver the epidemic information in the group, take the temperature, punch the card, locate the hair.
赵红梅也照做，作为健康和未离京的证据。
Zhao Hongmei also followed suit, as evidence of health and not leaving Beijing.
26天的合同期很快就到了，赵红梅要下户了。
The contract period of 26 days is coming soon. Zhao Hongmei is going to leave the house.
宝爸带回来的故事：管控越来越严格了，小区不允许租户进来了。
Father brought back the story: more and more strict control, the community did not allow tenants to enter.
她开始担心住宿问题，联系房东询问是否可以回到出租屋，房东回答模棱两可。
She began to worry about the accommodation and contacted the landlord to ask if he could return to the rented house.
一说，要社保卡，可是这对她来讲是天方夜谭，有哪个中介公司会帮月嫂买社保？二说，可以碰运气，让公司盖章证明未离京。
Say, want social security card, but this is impossible for her, which intermediary company will help her buy social security? Second, can take a chance, let the company stamp proof not to leave Beijing.
不知是这家中介公司没有公司章，还是没有营业执照，赵红梅反正没盖着公司章，她处境尴尬起来。
I do not know whether this intermediary company does not have the statute of the company, or no business license, Zhao Hongmei anyway did not cover the company chapter, she was embarrassed.
没有公司章，她的证明就是废纸一张。
Without the company constitution, her proof is a scrap of paper.
打卡，朋友圈定位，村口工作人员概不承认，由于未离京，不能提供返京的健康证明，开不了隔离证。
Card, friends circle location, village staff will not admit, because not leaving Beijing, can not provide health certificates back to Beijing, can not open isolation certificates.
她在客户家，房东登记未离京人员，又没有她的名字，而且无法提供社保卡。
She is at her client's home, the landlord registers non-residents, does not have her name and is unable to provide a social security card.
赵红梅哑巴吃黄连，好话说了一箩筐，夜幕降临，村口工作人员同意，只能进不能出。
Zhao Hongmei mute Huanglian, good words said a laundry basket, night fell, the village staff agreed, can only go out.
一旦外出，就进不来，罢了，安心休息，为国家做贡献吧，疫情结束再挣钱不迟。
Once out, you can't get in, just relax and contribute to the country. It's never too late to make money when the epidemic is over.
现在的她下户已有一个礼拜了，在等隔离解除那天，出去找工作。
Now she's been in the house for a week, waiting for the isolation day to go out looking for a job.
二钱桂兰和赵红梅是老乡，她们的户籍所在地，风景优美，经济落后。
Two money Guilan and Zhao Hongmei are Laoxiang, their domicile place, beautiful scenery, economic backwardness.
钱桂兰身材矮小，说话声与蚊子类似，细声细气，干农活就是一副吃亏相。
Qian Guilan small, voice and mosquito-like voice, thin voice, do agricultural work is a bad phase.
她的生活真的不忍卒读。
She really can't bear to live her life.
83年全大队56名孩子考初中，只有5名孩子考上，又有5名孩子选择复读，其余46名孩子就地小学毕业，包括钱桂兰。
In 83, 56 children from the entire brigade took the middle school examination, only 5 children were admitted, another 5 children chose to repeat their studies, and the remaining 46 children graduated from local primary schools, including Chin Kweilan.
那时包产到户刚开始，缺人手干农活，钱桂兰成天务农，19岁被人贩子拐卖到山西，用她的话说，她也想嫁到山西过好日子，除了人贩子欺骗，她本人也憧憬富裕的外面世界，讨厌穷山恶水五分田的川南山地。
She also wanted to marry Shanxi to live a good life, she said, adding that in addition to her traffickers, she had a vision of a wealthy outside world and hated the mountains of south Sichuan, where poverty was five points away.
外面的世界很无奈，山西除了住窑洞，冬天不洗脚之外，穷与四川不分伯仲。
Outside the world is very helpless, Shanxi in addition to living cave, winter does not wash feet, poor and Sichuan equally.
山西男人怕她跑了人财两空，严加看管外加家常便饭地虐待。
Shanxi men are afraid she ran out of money, strict supervision and ordinary abuse.
第二年她生了一个小男孩。
The next year she gave birth to a little boy.
第三年，高粱涨势正旺的季节，一天晚上，她瞅准一个机会逃了出来。
In the third year, sorghum was in high season. One night, she saw a chance to escape.
婆婆背着孩子在前面追，山西男人打着火把带着全村的男亲属紧跟其后。
Mother-in-law carrying the child in front of the chase, Shanxi men carrying torches with the village's male relatives closely followed.
钱桂兰在高粱地里躲了两天一夜才敢出来。
Qian Guilan stayed in the sorghum field for two days and nights before he dared to come out.
她一路乞讨，打零工，做一些无法用语言描述的工作，逃回家乡。
She begged all the way, did odd jobs, did some unspeakable work, and fled home.
再婚后生下一子一女，老公在成都某小区当保安，薪资有限。
After remarriage, she gave birth to a son and daughter. Her husband worked as a security guard in a community in Chengdu.
钱桂兰拼命工作，省吃俭用，2015年给山西大儿子5万元，作为其结婚贺礼，也暗含愧疚。
Qian Guilan works hard, economize, give Shanxi elder son 50,000 yuan in 2015, as his wedding gift, also implied guilt.
母子坚冰打破。
Mother and child break the ice.
村里封村封路之后，钱桂兰带领全家——读大学的儿子，上高中女儿，当保安的老公——都去地里，锄那些比人还高的杂草，锯那些比碗口还粗的杂树。
After the village was closed, Qian and his family - the son of a college student, the daughter of high school, and the husband of a security guard - all went to the fields to hoe weeds that were taller than human beings and saw miscellaneous trees thicker than bowls.
把田地弄平整，送给村里那些闲不住的老人做，让他们种点庄稼，果蔬。
Flatten the fields and give them to the idle old people in the village to plant some crops and vegetables.
她可以领点粮食补贴款，至少不会被罚款。
She could get some food allowance, or at least not be fined.
因为队长说，撂荒要罚款了。
Because the captain said the fellas were going to be fined.
更多的时候她望眼欲穿，等拐点出现，等疫情解除。
More time she looked forward to wear, such as the inflection point, such as the end of the epidemic.
在外面，哪怕抛夫弃子，低声下气，看人脸色挣工资，也强过在村子里饿肚子。
Outside, it is better to be hungry in a village than to abandon a son, to humble oneself, to look at a man's face for wages.
全家三亩六分耕地，解决不了温饱的。
A family of three mu of farmland, can not solve enough food.
三李爱菊去年预定好了客户，2月8号预产期。
Li Aiju booked a client last year for the due date of February 8.
月嫂都会前后预留半个月的时间等待宝妈生产，只有3%的产妇会在预产期当日生宝宝。
Sister-in-law leaves half a month to wait for a baby, and only 3 percent give birth on the expected date of birth.
春节期间李爱菊没回老家，在出租屋等。
During the Spring Festival Li Aiju did not return home, in rental housing.
人算不如天算，客户倒是顺利生产了，2月14号李爱菊高高兴兴地提着行李箱去上户。
The person is not as good as the day, the customer is smooth production, February 14 Li Aiju happily carry luggage to the door.
谁知道，小区实行封闭式管理，除了小区住户，天王老子都不让进。
Who knows, the community to implement closed management, in addition to the residential area, the Tian Wang Laozi are not allowed to enter.
李爱菊傻眼了，垂头丧气回到出租屋。
Li Aiju looked silly and went back to the rented room.
李爱菊已知天命，不，还多两岁，黑白头发各占一半。
Li Aiju has known fate, no, two years more, black and white hair each half.
她这一单是磨破嘴皮，踏破铁鞋才争取来的。
This single of hers was worn through her mouth, and she got it by stepping on broken shoes.
月嫂年龄超过五十，月嫂公司就不待见了。
Sister-in-law more than 50 years old, the sister-in-law company will not see.
她跑了很多次见面会，往往连面试的机会都没有，网络上有很多月嫂阿姨的负面新闻，导致见面会上有60多位月嫂阿姨，才5、6位客户，竞争惨烈。
She went to meet many times, often not even the opportunity to interview, there are many months of negative news on the Internet, resulting in more than 60 aunt and sister-in-law, just 5, 6 customers, fierce competition.
客户要求也匪夷所思，除了技能、年龄、经验、地域、眼缘之外，有的要求不打呼噜，普通话标准，奇葩的有要求阿姨24小时服务不睡觉的，有要求产妇宝宝不能生病的，等等。
In addition to skills, age, experience, geography, eye, some of the requirements do not snore, Putonghua standards, ask aunt 24-hour service do not sleep, there is a request that the mother should not be sick, and so on.
李爱菊这单，是由签单老师——也就是家政公司的销售员，与黄金期年龄（即年龄在45周岁左右）的月嫂合作，先把合同签下来，除了家政公司抽取高额佣金，李爱菊还得给签单老师一定数量的回扣，签单老师就会告诉客户，签合同的月嫂有不可抗拒的理由上不了户，然后拼命地、从经验丰富层面上推荐她，才谈成了。
Li Aiju, the signature teacher - that is, the sales staff of the home company, and the golden age (that is, around 45 years of age) signed the contract, in addition to the home company charge a certain number of commissions, the signature teacher will tell customers that the signing of the contract Yuejiu can not door, and then desperately, from the experience level recommended her.
这下黄了，疫情期间，客户更少了。
It's yellow. There are fewer customers during the epidemic.
四育儿嫂周春月，身材单薄，沉默寡言。
Fourth Sister Zhou Chunyue, thin and taciturn.
90年高中毕业的她，是四位家政工中学历最高的，在云南老家的学校代过两年课。
After graduating from high school in 1990, she had the highest degree of any of the four political workers and spent two years in a school in her native Yunnan province.
村支书的儿子初二辍学后，顶替了周春月的岗。
Village branch of the son drop out of secondary school, replacing the post of Zhou Chunyue.
在出租屋里，她时不时冒一句：当年，我跟高加林一样。
From time to time, in the rental room, she would say, I was the same as Gogarling.
被村支书儿子挤走，要不然，我还在教书。
Squeezed away by my son, or else I was still teaching.
周春月到北京，先是做保姆，月嫂职业兴起之后，转行做月嫂。
Zhou Chunyue to Beijing, first as a baby-sitter, after the rise of the career of Sister-in-law, change occupation.
月嫂这职业，主要是熬夜。
Sister-in-law is a profession, mainly stay up late.
遇到威廉·西尔斯定义的高需求宝宝，一天只能睡三，四个小时。
A baby with high needs, as defined by William Sears, can sleep only three or four hours a day.
周春月患有轻微贫血，熬夜之后，白天走路，远远望去像是醉酒。
Zhou Chunyue suffers from mild anemia, stay up late, walk by day, look like drunk from afar.
有一次，实在太困，抱着小宝贝，撞了一下，撞到婴儿床的护栏。
Once, really too sleepy, hugged the baby, bumped into the crib's guardrail.
婴儿床护栏有一层海绵防撞装置，小宝贝无大碍，宝奶奶可不依，拉她去撞门，让她尝尝被撞的滋味。
The crib railing has a sponge anti-collision device, baby is not a problem, Po grandmother can not rely on, pull her to hit the door, let her taste the taste of being hit.
客户还投诉她，辛辛苦苦18天，7600元血汗钱就这样泡汤了。
Customers also complain her, 18 days of hard work, 7600 yuan of hard-earned money on the soup.
实际上，家政公司只赔了1000元，剩下的6600被家政公司骗吞了。
In fact, the home company only paid 1000 yuan, the remaining 6,600 was cheated by the home affairs company.
月嫂的工资都由家政公司代收，给客户造成员工制、客户利益有保障的假象。
Sister-in-law's wages are collected on behalf of the home company, giving customers the illusion that employee system, customer interests are guaranteed.
家政工投诉无门，只能自我安慰，运气欠佳，舍钱免灾。
Domestic workers have no choice but to console themselves, suffer from bad luck and pay their way out.
现在她换做育儿嫂了，一般三个月之后接手。
Now she's a baby-sitter and usually takes over after three months.
钱比月嫂挣得少，但是晚上能休息。
She earns less than her sister-in-law, but can rest at night.
摄影：椰子年前，周春月从上一个客户家辞职。
Photo: Coconut. Zhou Chunyue resigned from her last client's home a year ago.
这家她做了两个月：雇主让她每天吃残羹剩饭，她好面子，不吭声。
She worked in the family for two months: the employer told her to eat scraps every day, she face, silent.
后来，剩饭都吃不饱，她辞职了。
Later, when the leftovers were gone, she resigned.
辞职之前一个礼拜，周春月开始联系家政公司，希望公司帮她留意合适的育儿客户。
A week before she resigned, Zhou Chunyue began contacting home economics companies, hoping the company would help her look out for suitable childcare customers.
周春月文化高，有经验，相对来说易上户。
Zhou Chunyue culture is high, experienced, relatively easy to door.
春节，也是家政用工荒。
Spring Festival is also a domestic labor shortage.
家政公司为她物色好了客户，年后就上户。
The home office found a good client for her and went to the house after ten years.
春节她回老家，铺天盖地的疫情笼罩神州。
Spring Festival she returned to her hometown, the spread of the epidemic shrouded Shenzhou.
正月初二，她就动身返京了。
She left for Beijing on the second day of the first month.
她想尽早离家，除了家政公司不想煮熟的鸭子飞走，急着催她上户以外，畏惧家暴的老公也是另外一个原因。
She wanted to leave home as soon as possible, except for the duck that the home office didn't want to cook, and rushed to rush her to the door.
回到北京，当时还没有隔离政策，她就直接上户了。
Back in Beijing, where there was no segregation policy, she went straight to the house.
在客户家呆了四天，管控才严格起来。
After four days at the customer's house, controls were tightened.
客户是小学教师，上班时间推迟。
The client is a primary school teacher with extended working hours.
之后客户开始挑刺，找托辞，其实心疼钱。
After the customer began to prick, look for alibi, in fact, love money.
最终，她被迫下户。
Eventually, she was forced to leave the house.
而她干了四天的那点工资还不够抵扣中介费。
Her four days' salary was not enough to cover the middleman's fee.
五这屋子里的家政工姐妹，心态好，凡事想得开。
CHAPTER V THE DOMESTIC WORKERS AND Sisters IN THIS HOUSE, IN A GOOD MECHANISM.
她们想起那些困在老家出不来的姐妹，觉得现在还是强多了。
They thought of their sisters, who could not get out of their hometown, and felt better now.
有些姐妹刚来北京，家政公司不让住，下午就打道回府，回老家还要隔离。
Some of the sisters just came to Beijing, the home office refused to stop, on the afternoon back home and isolation.
还有姐妹来北京花2000块，在宾馆隔离，隔离完了之后，好多单位没有复工，客户家里不缺人手，也找不到工作，没有地方可去，进退维艰。
There are two thousand sisters coming to Beijing to spend 2000 dollars, isolated in the hotel, after the isolation, many units did not return to work, customers do not lack staff, can not find jobs, there is no place to go, difficult.
留在“美好世界”的三位家政工姐妹，平时太忙，现在闲下来，除了关注疫情和追剧，学习成了她们的首要任务。
The three domestic workers and sisters who stayed in the "good world" were too busy to be busy, and now, apart from focusing on the epidemic and drama, learning became their first priority.
母婴护理知识，幼儿早教，烹调技能，都该系统地学，提升自我很有必要。
Mother and child care knowledge, early childhood education, cooking skills, should be systematically learned, self-promotion is necessary.
从保姆到月嫂，已到知天命的年纪，大家知道最终都会被淘汰。
From nanny to sister-in-law, to know the age of fate, we all know that eventually will be eliminated.
现在，雇主家里基本都装监控，有些变态的，连卫生间都装。
Now, the employer's home is basically installed monitoring, some abnormal, even the toilet is installed.
缺德的家政公司和客户不是个例。
Immoral home companies and customers are not alone.
除了家政公司欠薪、跑路之外，还有一些家政公司，在阿姨即将下户之时，与雇主勾结，让雇主鸡蛋里挑刺。
In addition to the home company salary arrears, running, but also some home companies, when the aunt is about to leave, and employers collude, let employers pick thorns.
他们最终就以这种方式合伙侵吞家政工的血汗钱。
In this way, they eventually conspired to appropriate the hard-earned money of domestic workers.
所以，每次能有一份合适的家政工作，大家就已经觉得很幸运了。
So every time you get a decent home job, everyone feels lucky.
对于大多数家政工姐妹来说，家政服务收入是他们唯一的经济来源。
For most domestic workers and sisters, domestic service income is their only source of income.
那些即将工作的家政工姐妹们，你们一定要珍惜工作机会，一旦进入客户家立刻更换新口罩，拿出自备的消毒液，擦手，擦拭行李箱，洗澡，更换全部衣物。
Those of you who are going to work in the home must cherish your job opportunities, change your mask as soon as you get into the customer's home, take out your own disinfectant, wipe your hands, scrub your suitcases, bathe, and change all your clothes.
毕竟福特说，再也没有比工资更重要的事了。
After all, says Ford, there's nothing more important than a salary.
关于征文点击图片获取征文详情请尊重原创，保护版权本文入选北京鸿雁社工服务中心和尖椒部落联合发起的“封闭与流动：疫情下的家政工”征文活动，文章由鸿雁写作班供稿，指导老师为静远，她于2019年发起"落地生根"家政工写作项目。
This article was selected for the essay entitled "Sealing and Mobility: Domestic Workers in an Epidemic Situation," jointly sponsored by the Hongyan Social Work Service of Beijing and the Jianjiao tribe. The essay was written by Hon Yan and her instructor Jing Yuan. She started and quot in 2019.
本活动系列文章不接受任何形式的改编转载，转载请联系尖椒部落，并在转载时务必注明以上介绍信息及作者信息。
This activity series articles do not accept any form of adaptation of the reprint, please contact the prickly pepper tribe, and when reprinting must note the above information and author information.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
她们想躲开的，是疫情，更是中介。
What they want to avoid is the outbreak, but also the intermediary.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "尖椒部落";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; pepper & quot;
var msg_title = "她们想躲开的，是疫情，更是中介";。
var msg _ title = & quot; they wanted to avoid the epidemic, and & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "没有公司章，她的证明就是废纸一张。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Without company policy, her certificate is scrap paper.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '封闭与流动：疫情下的中国家政工｜家政姐妹作品征集',。
& # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '尖椒部落',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '“我不怕疫情感染我，我怕的是丈夫对我的虐待”',。
"I'm not afraid of the epidemic. I'm afraid it was my husband's maltreatment of me."
subject_name: '尖椒部落',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '湖北籍女工：被疫情困住，被家务缠住',。
Hubei female workers: Blocked by the epidemic and caught at home with & aposs;.
subject_name: '尖椒部落',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '“我从千里之外赶来，还处在隔离状态”',。
"I came a thousand miles away and was quarantined" & amp; # 39; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '尖椒部落',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '2020伊始，我在北京的“爱”与“难”',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '尖椒部落',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="尖椒部落";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
