武汉ICU主任万字口述：患者1小时住满一病区，因恐慌到医院排队没必要。
Wuhan ICU Director Wancharacter dictation: one hour full of patients living in a sick area, panic to the hospital line is not necessary.
潇湘晨报                      。
Xiaoxiang Morning News.
潇湘晨报。
Xiaoxiang Morning News.
影响湖南湖南影响。
Influencing Hunan influence.
来源| 潇湘晨报（xxcbwx）“我们这收治了个病患吧，一个人可能感染了好几个人。
"Let's treat a patient here. A person can infect several people.
其中就包括照顾他的医护人员，不是我们医院，是其他医院的。
That includes the paramedics who take care of him, not at our hospital, but at other hospitals.
”口述 | 武汉市肺科医院ICU主任 胡明采访 | 潇湘晨报记者 耿志方 温艳丽 廖如云记录 | 实习生 赵鸿婕 朱文静 杨丽英 谭思慧 林颖娴对于胡明来说，他根本没空看疫情的新闻，哪怕是春晚，除夕和初一都没来得及在同事群里发个拜年信息。
HU Ming, director of the ICU at Wuhan Lung Hospital, interviewed & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
因为要忙于救治重症病人，他经常要忙到凌晨两三点才能吃上一口饭，一天仅能休息两三个小时。
Because he was busy treating the seriously ill, he often had to wait until two or three in the morning to have a bite to eat, only two or three hours a day.
他所任职的武汉市肺科医院，是真正的抗肺炎核心一线，是第一批收治新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎的定点医院，专门收治危重症病人。
The Wuhan Pulmonary Hospital, where he works, is the real front-line anti-pneumonia, and the first designated hospital to treat the new coronavirus-infected pneumonia, specializing in critically ill patients.
胡明是ICU主任，其所在的科室每天都在和病毒较量，和死神搞拉锯战，每天都在上演着一场没有硝烟的战争。
Hu Ming is the director of the ICU, its offices are daily fighting with the virus, and death fighting, daily staged a war without smoke.
和他一起的，是穿上防护服就憋着几小时不喝水不上厕所的医生；是时时守在病房监测病人情况的护士；是大年三十还在紧急调储备药物的药房人员；是把婚期推了的准新郎新娘。
He was accompanied by a doctor who spent hours in protective clothing without drinking water from the toilet; a nurse who was always on the ward monitoring the condition of patients; a pharmacist who was in the early thirties of the year when drugs were being kept in reserve; and a would-be bride and groom who had put off the wedding.
他称，自己接诊的病例中，还有个病患，一个人感染了好几人；还有个同行讲，自己接诊的重症患者都死了，可能也是接诊的重症少。
He said one of the patients he attended to was a patient, one infected several people, and another said that the severe cases he treated were all dead and probably the least serious.
在接受潇湘晨报记者采访时，胡明说，尤其是认识的一位校友、已退休被返聘的医生不幸离世，令人心痛，说是疫情出现以后单位就派他去了一线，没想到就没了。
In an interview with the Xiaoxiang Morning News, Hu said it was heartbreaking, especially since one of his alumni, a retired doctor who had been rehired, died.
“这时，我会莫名想起自己的9岁的孩子，以及非典时期结识的患难妻子，他们是我最亲近的人。
"At this point, I can't help but think of my 9-year-old child and my SARS wife, my closest friends.
”【1】文件袋遮脑袋，垃圾袋套鞋子可以告诉你，我现在每天上班的状态，早上七点钟左右就一定会醒，一定会爬起来，然后就去ICU病房。
Cover Your Head 2007-9-24 15: 27 [hide] I can tell you how I am going to work every day, wake up around seven in the morning, stand up and go to the ICU ward.
把所有病人的情况该讲的该注意的该交代的都做一遍然后出来，出来后吃个早餐。
Do everything you need to know about all the patients and come out for breakfast.
早餐吃完以后就开始白天的第一次查房工作，查完房以后吃个饭，中午大概一点半再进病房，然后进行第二轮查房，基本上要到四点钟再出病房。
Breakfast after the first day of the inspection work, check out the room after eating a meal, around 1: 30 noon into the ward, then a second round of room inspection, basically until 4 o'clock before leaving the ward.
出病房休整一下再整理一下其他的资料，可能就吃个晚饭再进去，再进去等值晚班的到再出来。
Get out of the room and tidy up the rest of the information, maybe eat dinner before going in, and then go in and wait for the night shift.
其他的同行是什么样的状态，拿个文件袋遮脑袋，拿个垃圾袋套鞋子。
What's the status of the rest of the group? Get a paper bag over your head and a garbage bag for your shoes.
就我自己的一个同学，没有从头到脚可以把你套进去的那种生化防护服，就穿着很简单的防护服（就一个隔离衣一个外科口罩一个帽子），直接闯前线了，很担心他们。
One of my own classmates, without the kind of bio-protective clothing you could fit from head to toe, went straight to the front in a simple protective suit (just a paraphernalia and a surgical mask and a hat) and worried about them.
大年三十晚上打个电话给金银潭那边的同学，我在问他，这个病人你们那应对的经验怎么样，治疗方案什么的，最后跟我说一句他也要休息，想强制隔离休息，都是在一线的啊。
On the evening of New Year's Eve, I called my classmate on the other side of the gold and silver pool. I asked him about your experience with this patient, his treatment plan and so on.
我武汉大学医学部毕业的，武汉做重症的，几乎都认识，人家就这么顶上去，二话没说，该上就上的，没有什么说的。
I graduated from Wuhan University Medical Department, Wuhan do serious, almost all know, people on such a top, said nothing, should go up, nothing to say.
大年初一早上，来支援的一家医院ICU主任就过来了，人家也没说什么，就穿着防护服跟着我马上进病房，一进去就是几个小时，出了一身大汗再出来。
On the morning of New Year's Day, the ICU director of a hospital came to support me. Without saying anything, they followed me to the ward in protective clothing.
他应该跟我差不多，可能比我小一点吧，我是1974年的，45岁也过了。
He should be about me, maybe a little younger than me. I was in 1974, and I was over forty-five.
【2】疫情速度太快，没来得及誓师我仍在医院，出了污染区域，身边就放了对讲机，里面都是对讲机联系，就是不停的有病情变化：一下不是发烧就是体温低，一下血压垮，一下呼吸不振，各种各样的事情，机器报警嘛。
2007-9-24 15: 23 [hide] I was still in the hospital, out of the contaminated area, with walkie-talkies all around me, but with constant changes of condition: either fever or hypothermia, a drop in blood pressure, a loss of breath, all sorts of things, machine alarm.
经常凌晨两三点才能休息，这会儿算好的，半夜12点后可以喘口气，这种忙得不可开交的日子，已持续一段时间，具体来说从1月初陆续开始的。
It was usually two or three in the morning, but now it was all right, and after twelve o'clock it was possible to catch a breath, a busy day that had been going on for some time, specifically since the beginning of January.
这次疫情确实超过了之前的一些推测、想象力。
Indeed, the epidemic exceeds some of the previous speculation and imagination.
因为速度来得太快了，大家都措手不及。
Everyone was taken aback because the speed was too fast.
真正第一批上前线的，哪一个说做好思想准备的是不是？说上就直接上了，这才是真正广大医务人员。
Really the first to go to the front, which said to be prepared for the idea of it? On the direct, this is the real vast majority of medical personnel.
至少我团队里面，或者是我看到的同学，不少人都是同行，没有说我要写个血书我才上去。
At least my team, or I saw the students, a lot of people are colleagues, did not say I had to write a blood book before I go up.
尽管培训仓促，好在认真，一些标准性操作没有问题，比如如何穿戴防护服，出入门要关紧等。
Despite the haste and seriousness of the training, some standard operations, such as how to wear protective clothing, access to the door should be closed.
即便我偶尔在一些细节上骂个别下属，他们也不会反感。
Even if I occasionally scold individual subordinates in some detail, they will not resent it.
因为你只有自己健康了，不成为传染源，才能更好的救治他人，是对社会负责，也是对自己的家庭负责。
Because you only own health, do not become a source of infection, can better save others, is socially responsible, but also responsible for their own families.
只是这一忙，没想到忙那么久，原本还想着像有些医院那样，弄个誓师大会什么的，显得有仪式感一点，都没有。
Just this busy, did not expect busy so long, originally also want to like some hospitals, get a vows conference or something, seems to have a sense of ceremony, no.
【3】有个同行接诊的重症都死了在一阵阵繁忙的脚步中，我们就迎来了疫情中的一个个病人。
2007-9-24 15: 29 [hide] A fellow patient died in the rush of footsteps, and we ushered in one patient in the outbreak.
可能有的人觉得，我戴个面罩，戴个呼吸机，吸个氧，那我就到重症了。
Maybe someone thinks, I wear a mask, wear a respirator, breathe oxygen, then I will be seriously ill.
但是对于我们ICU来说，那是轻症，换句话说，你如果说是几个小时之内不能给他有效的救助，他就会死亡，我们主要收这样的患者。
But for us ICU, it's a mild illness. In other words, if you don't give him effective help for a few hours, he dies.
怎么说呢？这一类的疾病统称为急性呼吸窘迫综合征，不管是病毒还是什么，反正会引起这个病。
How to say? This kind of disease is collectively called acute respiratory distress syndrome, no matter what the virus or whatever, will cause the disease anyway.
不管是以前的那个SARS，就是我们说的非典，还是后来的中东呼吸综合症，还是流感H7N9，还是其他的季节性肺炎，最后这些都会累积到肺,表现出来的最危重的状态，这个状态就叫急性呼吸窘迫综合征。
Whether it's SARS, or SARS as we call it, or the later Middle East respiratory syndrome, influenza H7N9, or other seasonal pneumonia, all of which build up into the lungs and show up in the most critical state, called acute respiratory distress syndrome.
急性呼吸窘迫综合征中还分为中度，轻度和重度。
Acute respiratory distress syndrome is also classified as moderate, mild and severe.
那么目前的，这个重症的，按照重症的这个定义来看，就是从目前我们收治的新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎重症的比例来看的话，可能就是10%到20%，确诊病例发病率大概是10%到20%，也就是说轻，中，重加在一起，10%到20%。
So at the moment, this severe case, by this definition of serious illness, is probably 10% to 20% of the severe pneumonia that we are currently receiving for the new coronavirus infection, and the incidence of the confirmed cases is probably 10% to 20%, that is to say, 10% to 20%.
轻度的只能先交给普通病区，或者医疗资源有限的一些病区去做的一些事情。
Mild can only be given to the general disease area, or some limited medical resources to do some things.
那我们就收中度，重度的这些病人，基本上都是重度的病例，很少有轻度的。
So we have moderate, severe cases, mostly severe cases, and rarely mild cases.
那么这个重度的病人，我可以很明确的告诉你，现在全世界最好的抢救成功存活率都比较低。
So this severe patient, I can tell you very clearly, the world's best rescue success rate is relatively low.
那你想一想，现在有多少个病人啊？有多大的压力啊？我的个别同行有点崩溃了，他说“我接诊的重症全死了”，可能接诊的急重症患者也没几个。
Think, then, how many patients there are now? How much pressure? Some of my colleagues have broken down a bit, he said, "I was treated with severe illness," and there may not be many urgent and severe cases.
我想的话，这些急危重症的，能活着出去，起码还有些家庭完整。
I think, these critically ill, can get out alive, at least some families complete.
【4】感觉病毒还在爬坡现在一个是传播的人员基础数量可能减少了。
Feeling the virus is still climbing a slope Now one of the reasons is that the number of people on the move may have decreased.
比方说现在如果没控制他可能一个人要传播十个人，你控制了以后，他可能一个人传播一个人或者两个人。
Now, for example, if you don't control him, you might spread ten people by yourself, and then he might spread one or two people by himself.
但是问题是，原来的传播源呢？疫情可能真的没有大家想的那么乐观，而且还有春运的问题，很多人之前就回去了，所以全国各地都有一定爆发。
But the problem is, the original source of transmission? The epidemic may not be as optimistic as everyone thought, and there is the problem of spring transportation, many people have gone back before, so there have been some outbreaks all over the country.
我倒不是说怎么样，是说你们记者到处跑，个人也要注意下。
I don't mean to say that you reporters to run around, also pay attention to the individual.
现在这个，轻症可以被遏制。
Now, light illness can be contained.
虽然都是病毒，但是同一个种属的变异后独立的，引起变化的病情治疗方面有一些细微点变化，跟以前有很大的区别。
Although both are viruses, the mutations of the same species are independent, and there are subtle variations in the treatment of the conditions that cause the changes, which are very different from those of the past.
按照原来的经验去治的话，可能不会有很好的效果，也可能大相径庭。
If treated according to the original experience, may not have a good effect, may also be very different.
好在武汉市现在是封城了，各方措施抓得比较严，能遏制一定的传播性，但是按照病毒特点来说，感觉病毒还在爬坡，它要经过几代的传播之后，他才能够慢慢的把自己的传播性和独立性减到最低。
Fortunately, Wuhan is now a closed city, each party measures more tightly to curb a certain degree of transmission, but according to the characteristics of the virus, the feeling that the virus is still climbing, it will take several generations to spread before he can slowly reduce their dissemination and independence.
另外一个的话，不少没有经验的医务人员投入进去了，确实现在防护上一下子做不到位，风险太大。
Another word, many inexperienced medical staff threw in, it is true that the protection is not in place at once, the risk is too great.
从全国来看，治疗突发传染疾病的人也没那么多，有实力的大夫加起来就那么多。
Nationally, the number of people who treat outbreaks of infectious diseases is low, and the number of strong doctors is so much.
医疗技术，医疗手段，医疗经验，那这个不是说一个医学生毕业他就能上前线的。
Medical technology, medical treatment, medical experience, that's not to say that a medical student will be able to go to the front line after graduation.
他必须要有相应的资格，再说，即便他能保护自己又有什么用呢，他不能救别人。
He must have qualifications, and besides, what use is it for him to defend himself? He cannot save others.
因为他没有接受相关的知识，他就是也不大可能会在这么短的时间内学会那么复杂的一些理论，知识和运用，这个很难的。
Because he did not receive the relevant knowledge, he is not likely to learn in such a short time so complex theory, knowledge and application, this is difficult.
【5】恐慌性到医院排队没必要说到这，其实我真的很想拜托潇湘晨报宣传一下，有些恐慌是没必要的。
There's no need to talk about queuing up at the hospital. In fact, I really want to please the Xiaoxiang Morning News to publicize that some panic is unnecessary.
有个熟人本来就是胃癌术后，本来就有点低烧，结果他紧张地不得了，现在跑医院去排队啊，看病什么的。
An acquaintance, who had been suffering from a low fever after gastric cancer surgery, was so nervous that he now went to the hospital to line up, see a doctor or something.
他打电话问我，我说你不要去，你就是偶尔一下子的低烧，平时你都有可能低烧，你现在这个风头上不要去，他非要去挂号排个队。
He called me and asked me, I said you do not go, you are occasionally a low fever, usually you may have a low fever, you do not go on the current do not go, he must go to the registration line.
这是恐慌性的排队，排队的结果是什么呢，要排到几十甚至上百号，于是就在外面等呐，我说那你知道旁边是什么吗？医院里面一定会去到一些确实是这个病的病人，你又没办法识别谁是谁不是，医生排查都需要时间。
This is a panic queuing, what is the result of queuing up to dozens or even hundreds, and then wait outside, I said do you know what is beside it? There must be some really sick people in the hospital, and you can't tell who is who is not.
这个过程既增加了自己的风险，也增加了一线医务人员的负担。
This process increases both their own risks and the burden on front-line medical staff.
搞到最后，反而让需要得到救助的人得不到有效的救助，它就只能到外面去传播，因为你不可能限制他，他不可能自己知道自己得病，他只能回去，再一传播，那只会越来越重。
In the end, instead of providing effective relief to those in need, it has to travel outside, because you cannot restrain him, he cannot know that he is ill, he can only go back and spread, and it will only get heavier and heavier.
人有了某些发热症状，也要先了解自己有没有某些方面的病史，有的话有可能是以前的某个病的复发。
People with certain fever symptoms, but also to know whether there are some aspects of their medical history, or if there may be a recurrence of a previous disease.
如果不是这样的话，或者说也需要适度地在家里面自己观察一周左右，看看是不是这个，再考虑是不是要去排队，可能也能缓解这个压力。
If that's not the case, or if you need to make a moderate observation at home for a week or so to see if this is the case, or whether to wait in line, it might also relieve the stress.
你说，即便在日常没有疫情的时候，哪个大城市能接纳全部头疼发热、感冒症状的患者，给全部这种人排查？他必须要有这么一个过程，必须看一下，他总不至于今天受凉、流个鼻涕就怀疑自己是这个病，那也说不过去啊，这太过了。
You say that, even in the absence of a daily epidemic, which big city can take in all patients suffering from fevers and colds and screen all such people? He must have a process in which he must see that he does not suspect himself of the disease by having a cold and a runny nose today.
这个季节，本来也容易引发感冒，再加上武汉有上千万人口，这可不是个小数目。
This season, also easy to cause a cold, and Wuhan has tens of millions of people, this is not a small number.
同时，武汉医疗资源也是有限的，你不能说医疗资源全部用在这一个疾病啊，还有其他的病人啊。
At the same time, Wuhan medical resources are limited, you can not say that all the medical resources used in this disease ah, there are other patients ah.
【6】协力去扛过最危险阶段人们恐慌，可能还有个原因，网上碎片化信息太多了，他们没耐心深阅读，不去看一些专业医务人员的建议。
[6] Another reason people panic when they work together to carry through the most dangerous stages may be that there is so much fragmentation of information on the Internet that they don't read it patiently enough to see the advice of some medical professionals.
一般来说，这个疾病的话，它有相应的、比较明确的一个症状发展的一个过程。
Generally speaking, this disease, if it has a corresponding, relatively clear symptoms of a process of development.
比如说在第一周之内，往往表现为呼吸道感染，这个发热啊，干咳啊，或者是腹泻，还有一些比如说发烧一类的症状，在一周一定要对在这些症状有个预判。
In the first week, for example, you tend to develop respiratory infections, this fever, dry cough, or diarrhea, and other symptoms such as fever. Be sure to have a prejudgement of these symptoms during the week.
它加重往往是从第二周开始，因为它第一周人体的免疫力会起到一定作用，免疫系统如果有局限，没有能搞定这些病毒的时候，它会在一个时间点去爆发出来，这个时间点一般是五到七天。
It tends to worsen from the second week because the body's immune system works during the first week, and when the immune system is limited and fails to deal with the viruses, it erupts at a point in time, usually five to seven days.
但是，这个病也有可怕之处，不能掉以轻心，在家自我隔离的话，也应非常注意卫生，使用一些适当的药物进行控制。
However, the disease also has a terrible, can not be taken lightly, self-isolation at home, but should also pay great attention to hygiene, using some appropriate drugs for control.
说它可怕，是因为这个病现在没有办法完全有效地去治好、治愈，所以他只能有用插管，移动心肺仪（ECMO）等帮助我们去扛过最危险的阶段。
It's scary because there's no way the disease can be completely cured and cured, so he can only use intubations, mobile cardiopulmonary bypass (ECMO) and so on to help us carry through the most dangerous stages.
ECMO是什么？打个比方，你住在房子里面，结果现在房子失火了，但你人又不能出去。
ECMO What is an ECMO For example, you live in a house and now the house is on fire and you can't go out.
第一个办法灭火，但水是不够的，因为你在房子里边没有水，外边给水，那么外边给水是抗病毒的特效药。
The first way to fight a fire, but water is not enough, because you have no water inside the house, outside water supply, then outside water is antiviral specific.
第二个办法，那我们就得想办法撑过这个火，就拿个东西把我自己保护起来，我可能拿个棉被或者什么，我躲在里面，它在外边烧，反正烧不进来。
The second way, we'll have to do something about it, we'll take something to protect myself, I'll probably get a quilt or something, I'll hide in it, and it'll burn outside, but it won't burn in anyway.
我只要在里面还能够活着。
I can live as long as I'm inside.
火烧完了自己就会熄。
The fire extinguishes itself.
ECMO就是这床棉被。
ECMO is the quilt.
活过来了还得有一个问题，就是你在报纸上或者其他地方也可以看到，治愈的人他会说，啊，我体力下降，我喘气，就是这个样子。
The only problem with being alive is that you can see it in the newspapers or anywhere else, the healer he says, 'Ah, I'm down, I'm panting, that's it.
因为你的“房子”有一部分被烧掉了。
Because part of your "house" was burned down.
重症技术实施下去，也只能做到这里，但是这些技术很昂贵又很复杂。
It's the only way to do it, but these technologies are expensive and complicated.
【7】患者平安度过大年三十我不说别的成本，我就说这个防护服的成本，防护服消耗，绝大多数都承受不了。
I won't say anything about the cost. I'll say that the cost of the suit, the cost of the suit, is too high for most of it.
再说，一患者用ECMO治疗成功，三四十万是很正常的。
Moreover, it is normal for a patient to be treated successfully with ECMO.
就是说你使用ECMO把这个人救活了，只是说救活了，离开ICU，并不代表他出了ICU之后后续不需要治疗。
That means you used ECMO to save the person, just say saved, leaving the ICU, does not mean that he did not need treatment after ICU.
不用ECMO，可能20万左右。
Without ECMO, maybe 200,000.
现在满脑子都是这个病怎么治，满脑子都是在找。
Now the brain is full of how to treat this disease, full of brain is looking for.
没办法，里面还躺着十来个人，等着救。
There were a dozen people inside, waiting to be rescued.
腊月二十九晚上，上的那台ECMO，我们当时一线配置不足，后来没办法，求助国家专家组，两个人都是老教授了。
On the 29th evening of the month, the ECMO, we were under-staffed first-line, then no way to turn to the national team of experts, both old professors.
晚上十点多钟，赶到我这里来，手把手地跟我们一起蹲在地上做ECMO，搞到凌晨一点钟才走，大年三十早上凌晨一点才走，个个都是汗流浃背，就为了救那一个病人。
At ten o'clock in the evening, I arrived, crouched hand in hand with us to do ECMO, until one o'clock in the morning, about one in the morning, all sweaty, in order to save a patient.
还好那个病人目前情况暂时稳住了，如果那天不上，如果那个时候不上ECMO，三十的早上一定死亡。
Fortunately, the patient is now in stable condition for the time being, and if he does not make it to ECMO by then, he will surely die in the morning of thirty.
迟了二十分钟必死无疑，就是以前见过太多了。
Twenty minutes late is certain, but I've seen too much before.
救了以后，现在过了年嘛，我不敢说他以后一定能够活下去，恢复健康，但起码对他家里人来说他活着过了这个春节，是个安慰。
Saved, now after the New Year, I do not dare to say that he will be able to survive and recover, but at least for his family he survived the Spring Festival, which is a comfort.
你看教授他们都这样，那我们更应该这样了是不是。
If you look at the professors they're all like this, then we should do it all the more.
【8】一群人忙活，只为一个病人翻身刚才说到医护人员要坐在地上给他搞这个事儿，因为我们ECMO要预冲啊，你可能不知道，说它简单嘛也简单，说它复杂嘛也非常复杂。
2007-9-24 15: 27 [hide] A group of people are busy rolling over a single patient. Just now it was said that the paramedics were going to sit on the floor and do it for him because we had ECMO to pre-empt.
要充分运作，需要非常熟练的团队啊，至少需要确保五个人一起协作才行。
To be fully operational, you need a very skilled team, and at least five people have to work together.
不是说我一个大夫就能去做，或者说找一个护士配合就能做，那不行，因为他必须得两个人配合。
Not that I can do it alone, or that I can do it with a nurse, that's not right, because he has to have two people working with him.
他很多东西就必须得两个人配合，最强的团队可能也得四个人配合。
He has to work with two people on a lot of things, and the strongest team may have four.
他没得人配合的话，一个人很难做出，风险很高，所以来了以后，那天直接上来了一台ECMO。
He did not get cooperation, a person is very difficult to do, high risk, so came, that day came directly to an ECMO.
后来需要上第二台，需要一些消耗性配件，需要四处寻找调货。
Later need to go to a second, need some expendable accessories, need to look around to transfer goods.
现场，个个都是汗流浃背，好在当天有专家组过来支持。
The scene, everyone is sweating profusely, fortunately has the expert group to come to support that day.
两个ECMO病人，其中一个患者一定得给他趴过去，不趴过去的话，这个东西再怎么做ECMO都做不了，也是（徒劳）。
Two ECMO patients, one of whom must give him to lie over, do not go to the past, this thing how to do ECMO can not do, is (futile).
你想这个东西身上全部都是仪器管路连在一起，一群人忙活，就是让患者翻个身。
You think this thing is all equipment pipe connected together, a group of people busy, is to let the patient turn over.
从准备到最后实施，一直到实施成功，这一整套流程，所有东西全部做下来。
From preparation to final implementation to successful implementation, the whole process is done.
得半个小时左右，我们现在有十个这样非常严重的病人。
In about half an hour we have ten such very serious patients.
关键还有一点，你不能二十四小时把它插完的，你还得把它装回来，18个小时你还得把它装回来，装完以后六个小时，你还得把它插过去。
The point is, you can't plug it in 24 hours, you have to put it back, you have to put it back in 18 hours, you have to put it back in six hours, you have to plug it in.
这还只是治疗这些病人的其中一个必须要做的事情，你想想。
It's just one of the things that has to be done to treat these patients, you know.
所以为什么我说消耗量很大，就是因为这样，你得不停地做这些事情，人力消耗量很大，体力消耗量很大。
So why do I say that there is a lot of consumption because you have to keep doing these things and consume a lot of people and a lot of energy.
我们还得要根据病人做什么，要维护他的肾，还要给他做肺的康复，还要用药治疗。
We still have to do what the patient does, to maintain his kidneys, to rehabilitate his lungs, and to take medication.
然后大多数病人呼吸衰竭的情况下还会可能有其他的各种各样的并发症。
Then most patients with respiratory failure may have a variety of other complications.
【9】患者住满一个病区，可能只要一小时疫情发生没过太久，患者就已住满病房，后来重症病房也全满了。
The patient is in a sick area and may be in the ward for as long as an hour, and then the intensive care unit is full.
再后来，清空一个普通病区可能花三天，患者住满一个病区可能只需要一个小时。
Later, emptying a common area can take three days, and filling a sick area can take as little as an hour.
这是怎么操作？就是原本有些普通的科室是治疗其他病症的，如果患者不严重，可以在家休养的，就请其到家休养。
This is how to operate? Some common departments are the treatment of other diseases, if the patient is not serious, can rest at home, ask them to rest at home.
如果特别严重的，就转到其他非定点医院或什么地方医院去。
If it is particularly serious, transfer to another non-designated hospital or some local hospital.
这么做好处是，一可以避免交叉感染，二可以最大限度利用空闲床位等医疗资源。
This has the advantage of avoiding cross-infection and maximizing the use of medical resources such as spare beds.
这些科室的医护人员，经过一定培训，也要做一些基础性工作。
The medical staff of these departments, after a certain amount of training, but also to do some basic work.
我们武汉市肺科医院是重点医院，暂时是这个样子。
Our Wuhan Lung Hospital is the key hospital, for the time being this way.
武汉市的医疗确实还比较强，但是突然出现一些病患，无论是基础设施，人员配置其实都很危急。
Wuhan City is indeed relatively strong medical treatment, but a number of patients, whether infrastructure, staffing is really critical.
基础设施方面，除火神山医院外，武汉又决定半个月之内再建一所雷神山医院，集中收治新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎患者。
Infrastructure, in addition to the fire god mountain hospital, Wuhan decided to half a month to build another Lui Shenshan Hospital, focused on treating patients with new coronavirus infection pneumonia.
这样做的目的，或许就是集中力量，快点建设好，能最大限度救治相关病人。
The goal, perhaps, is to concentrate on building up quickly and treating the patients concerned to the maximum extent possible.
如果不尽快加大力度，疫情向周边或其他更远的地方扩散，这都不是一个好兆头。
It does not bode well if efforts are not stepped up quickly to spread the epidemic to surrounding areas or beyond.
【10】一线对防护物资消耗大有些医生用泳镜代替护目镜，或用文件袋当防护服，可能是因为刚接到任务不久，采购不及时，这会儿除了疫情，又是过年的，哪有时间准备充分。
Some doctors use goggles instead of goggles, or paper bags as protective clothing, perhaps because of the lack of timely procurement after a short time on the job, when there is no time to prepare for the Lunar New Year apart from the epidemic.
其实都能预防一定的东西，但是预防的比例是很小的。
In fact, can prevent certain things, but the proportion of prevention is very small.
举个例子，你呼出的气体，那个水蒸气在显微镜上看它是一个个小颗粒一样的，你对着人家说话的话，你的飞沫会被人家吸进去，所以说呼吸道疾病往往是这么传播的。
For example, the gas you exhale, the vapor that looks like tiny particles under a microscope, will suck in your droplets if you speak to someone, so respiratory diseases tend to spread that way.
如果这个病毒传出来，你戴个普通外科口罩，你可能会拦掉70%，你戴个N95，你可能拦掉95%，你如果再戴个眼罩的话，你可能拦掉98%，但是，剩下的1%你要是被感染了，也不好。
If the virus gets out and you wear a general surgical mask, you might stop 70%, you wear an N95, you might stop 95%, you might stop 98% if you put on another blindfold, but the remaining 1% of your body is not good if you get infected.
戴口罩是一些基本的预防措施，确实可以减少大量的相互传播。
Wearing masks is a basic preventative measure that can actually reduce a lot of cross-infection.
医务人员防护物资方面，我们医院元旦左右就开始准备了，那时候接的任务，院领导也非常支持，采购很多东西还比较容易，快递进货收货还比较及时。
Medical protection material, our hospital around New Year's Day began to prepare, that time to take over the task, hospital leadership is also very supportive, procurement of many things is relatively easy, express delivery incoming goods are still relatively timely.
但是，随着这个疫情的发展来看的话，消耗非常大。
But as the epidemic unfolds, the costs are enormous.
这么跟你说吧，一套防护服便宜一点大概一百多左右，好一点的三百，还不算N95口罩。
To tell you the truth, a suit of protective clothing is a little less than a hundred or so, a little better than three hundred, not to mention the N95 mask.
如果有帽子，口罩，眼罩，然后防护服，鞋套一套组成，这是最基本的，大概买下一套需要三四百。
If you have a hat, mask, eye mask, then protective clothing, shoe cover, this is the most basic, probably buy a set of three or four hundred.
一个重症病人平均下来一天，就要消耗十套，那我现在如果有10个重症病人，那得消耗100套，这就我们一线人员最基本消耗。
If a serious patient takes ten sets a day on average, then if I have 10 patients in serious condition, that will cost me 100, which is the basic consumption of our frontline staff.
武汉市肺科医院ICU病房。
ICU Ward of Wuhan Lung Hospital.
【11】穿防护服像蒸桑拿说到消耗防护服，你还需要知道一下穿防护服多难受。
Wearing protective clothing is like a sauna. Speaking of wearing protective clothing, you also need to know how uncomfortable it is to wear it.
你在路上可能看到人家穿熊一样的衣服，穿着个小熊给你发传单，在里面闷着，你如果穿了一套，你就是那个样子。
You may see bear-like clothes on the road, wearing a bear to give you flyers, stuffy inside, if you wear a suit, you are just like that.
你穿这个防护服，更严实，穿6个小时，8个小时，12个小时不脱，你看是什么感觉，还要每天跑来跑去，我在ICU，从东头走到西头要20米，医护人员在里面6个小时一个班，一个班下来就是一万步。
You wear this suit, more sturdy, 6 hours, 8 hours, 12 hours, what do you think it feels like, and you have to run around every day, I walk 20 meters from ICU, from east to west, where paramedics work six hours a day, and one shift is 10,000 steps down.
你要是喝水就得脱掉衣服出来喝，脱掉衣服把这套衣服废掉，上厕所然后再穿一套新的再进去，你不能把污染的衣服穿到外面来喝水。
If you take off your clothes and drink them, take off your clothes and get rid of them, go to the bathroom and then put on a new one. You can't put your dirty clothes outside and drink.
那要是人员一不小心出汗了，在里面真会把脸和手泡肿了。
If someone sweats by accident, his face and hands will swell up inside.
即便不会肿了，我觉得无论男女，那一身臭味肯定是跑不了的。
Even if it doesn't get swollen, I don't think either man or woman will ever get away with that stink.
因为你稍慢一点人家就挂了，你只能说尽快加快自己的速度，像飞一样的动，那还不出汗？何况我们有时候有一些高难度的治疗措施，那个时候人都是高度紧张，穿里面那个衣服就像海里捞出来的感觉一样，全部湿透了，蒸桑拿了。
You can only say quicken your speed as fast as you can, and it doesn't sweat, and sometimes we have some very difficult treatments, when people are so nervous that they feel like they're fishing out of the sea, and they're all soaked and sauna.
女孩子在里面搞这么久，然后再出来，你化妆还有什么用？问题是这个东西还不是一天两天，按照疫情来算的话，就算是十天半个月，也有很多人受不了。
What's the use of your make-up if a girl's been in there for so long? The problem is that it's not going to last two days, and even if it's ten days and a half, many people can't stand it.
【12】大年三十也要调药物我刚才，夜里十二点钟，还在和院长汇报工作，汇报当天一些病人的救治情况。
2007-9-24 15: 27 [hide] I was still reporting to the dean just now, at twelve o'clock in the night, on the treatment of some patients that day.
现在一线的几乎全部都这样，都一样，大家都累，有些医院的医护人员快崩溃了。
Now almost all the first line of this, all the same, everyone tired, some hospital medical staff is about to collapse.
怎么崩溃呢，一个医院，设计的呼吸机，氧气的供应量，绝对不会按照一千个床位一千个呼吸机来设计。
How to crash, a hospital, a ventilator designed, oxygen supply, will never be designed for a thousand-bed ventilator.
只会说，我一千个床位，设计一百个重病床，设计一个氧气就够供给了，但是现在的病情是怎么了，这一千个人来，可能一千个人都用氧，你说人家崩不崩溃。
All I can say is that I have a thousand beds, design a hundred heavy beds, and design an oxygen supply, but what's going on here? A thousand people might be using oxygen.
还有药物的准备，我们医院药学部一个大夫，他三十几岁了，月初开始加班加点，因为临床要用药，平时涉及的那些药，现在可能根本就八竿子打不着。
Then there was the preparation of medicine, a doctor in the pharmacy department of our hospital, who, in his thirties, began to work overtime at the beginning of the month because of the need for medication and the possibility that the usual medicines would not be available at all.
这些药翻倍的用，可能翻十倍的用，还不是他几天时间要联系货源，要储备到位。
These drugs double the use, may double 10 times, is not a few days for him to contact the source, to reserve in place.
药房处就天天在那有人吵，但是我们打电话，他必须得供应，不供应人家要死了。
The drugstore was noisy there every day, but we called and he had to be supplied so that no one would die.
这个病可不等人，慢了一定会出现很多的合并症，并发症，或者他原有疾病出来加重，或者出现一些新的脏器的衰竭，或者其他的一些激发的细菌感染，有些细菌感染很难得治，他只有一些药才有效。
The disease does not wait for a person, but it does cause a lot of complications, complications, or an aggravation of his pre-existing condition, or some new organ failure, or some other bacterial infection that excites. Some bacterial infections are hard to treat, and only some of them work.
我还跟药房说，有个药，这个病情需要，他得想办法去要，调啊，从其他地方调过来。
I also told the drugstore that there was a drug that he needed and that he would have to find a way to get it, tune it up, and transfer it from somewhere else.
那他还不是大年三十晚上去调，全部弄到位了。
Well, he's not ready for New Year's Eve. It's all in place.
【13】检测实验室要求高有媒体反映，排查新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎需要一种什么试剂，其实是指核酸试剂盒，说没那么多。
2007-9-24 15: 19 [hide] Testing labs require a high media response to find out what kind of reagent is needed to detect pneumonia infected with the new coronavirus.
其实，供应充足又能怎样呢？不是每家医院都有这个资质用这个核酸检测，它对硬件、软件都有要求。
In fact, what about adequate supplies? Not every hospital has the qualification to use this nucleic acid test, it has requirements for hardware, software.
实验室要达到一定级别，所以，有些医院只能输个血查个血常规，再复杂点的，需要隔离预防，再再进一步的，需要生物隔离。
Laboratories need to reach a certain level, so, some hospitals can only have a blood test routine, and then complex, need isolation prevention, and further, need biological isolation.
武汉有全世界最新的病毒实验所，但问题是它有多大的能力去接受这么大的疫情检验呢？如果敞开让有些医院上阵，其检测人员只是给你做检测，做一个检验人员就会倒一个。
Wuhan has the world's newest laboratory for viruses, but the question is how much it can afford to be tested for a pandemic like this. If it is open to some hospitals, its testers will only test you and a checker will pour one out.
就算基础设施建起来了，核酸充分供应了，检验人员还得要，还得要人来做啊，人要训练，不是说熟练很久嘛，熟练流程至少有一阵子，他要去做这个核酸。
Even when the infrastructure is in place and the nucleic acids are fully available, the examiner has to, and has to be, trained, not skilled for a long time, at least for a while, to make the nucleic acid.
这个核酸检测的时候，也并不是说我做一次就确诊自己是这个病的，OK了，以后就不做了。
When this nucleic acid test, it is not that I do a single diagnosis of this disease, OK, do not do.
你要解除隔离，两周才能解除隔离，都得检测。
You need to get out of quarantine. Two weeks before you can unlock it. All have to be tested.
所以说这个工作量是很大的，现在不是说我们医护人员不愿意收，或者是不愿意给，这里面确实有些复杂现实的问题，单纯去抱怨是没用的。
So this is a huge workload, not that we medical staff are unwilling to accept, or unwilling to give, this is a complex reality of the problem, it is useless to simply complain.
【14】一个病患感染好几个人要说一线人员辛苦，真的不是单纯流汗这一说。
2007-9-24 15: 53 [hide] Several people say that front-line workers are hard-working, not simply sweating.
因为一旦防护措施不到位，或者有其他病症的话，都是致命的，可能倒下。
Because if protective measures are not in place, or if there are other conditions, they are fatal and may fall.
这不，我们这收治了个病患吧，一个人可能感染了好几个人。
No, we've got a patient here. One person can infect several people.
其中就包括照顾他的医护人员也被感染，不是我们医院，是其他医院的。
This includes the fact that the paramedics who took care of him were also infected, not our hospital, but other hospitals.
他是从外地来武汉就医做手术的，家里人陪他来的还有四个，现在他家里就是一个可能没什么症状，这个人就是每天来送钱、送饭，暂时不用隔离。
He came from other places to Wuhan for surgery, his family came with four, now his family may not have symptoms, this person is to deliver money, food, temporary isolation.
跟这个病患在一起过的几个都被隔离了，而且都有一定症状。
Several of the patients who had been with the patient were isolated and had certain symptoms.
他来了，我们就必须把他抢救回来，至少还活着呀，后面能不能醒啊，或者能不能更进一步好，现在还不好说，但是至少他呼吸恢复起来了，现在暂时只能恢复到这个程度。
Here he comes, and we must save him, at least alive; and whether he can wake up, or make any further progress, is not yet certain; but at least he has recovered his breath, and only to that extent for the time being.
反正我觉得这人一天比一天好，反而他的希望是最大的一个。
In any case, I think this man is getting better every day, but his hope is the biggest one.
他现在全身插满了管子，根本没办法跟任何人交流。
He's got tubes all over his body and he can't communicate with anyone.
其实也不能怪罪他，他本身也没必要懊悔，因为现在谁传给谁都不知道，可能传给他的人已经好了。
He could not be blamed, and he himself had no need to repent, for no one now knew who had passed it on, and the person who might have passed it on to him was well.
这次受感染的人都是受害者，谁会知道自己有病还会去故意传染别人？目前没有证据有这样的人。
This time the infected people are victims, who will know their illness will deliberately infect others? There is no evidence of such a person.
【15】校友离世，很难过关于医护人员被感染，大年初一早上突然接到有个同学给我打电话，说谁谁走了，我说诶，这人我认识啊，心里一下难受。
2007-9-24 15: 20 [hide] "I'm sorry to hear that a classmate called me on the morning of New Year's Day saying who had left.
退休医生那是我的校友，我们还见过面。
Retired doctor That's my alumnus. We've met.
他属于第一批过去支援的人，是退休了返聘到武汉市的一个医院，疫情出现以后单位就派他过去，可能想着是他年纪比较大，经验比较丰富，结果去了以后，没想到就没了。
He was one of the first to go, retired and rehired to a hospital in Wuhan. After the outbreak of the epidemic, the unit sent him there, probably thinking that he was older and more experienced.
有消息说，梁医生生前还患有心律失常、持续性房颤等病史，但是，也是疑似感染。
Some sources said that Dr. Liang also suffered from arrhythmia, persistent atrial fibrillation and other medical history, but also suspected infection.
年龄大容易感染是肯定的，但是不光是年龄大啊，还有年轻的，小的。
The susceptibility to infection in old age is certain, but not only in old age, but also young, small.
同行倒下了，让我一下想起了非典，当时也有一些医务人员被感染的情况。
The fall of the colleague reminded me of SARS, when some of the medical staff were also infected.
那是2003年，我应该是30岁的样子，刚毕业没几年，也是在那时候认识我老婆的。
It was 2003. I was supposed to be 30, just a few years after graduation, and it was then that I met my wife.
那年接诊第一个疑似非典病人的时候，是我跟她两个人一起上夜班，刚认识她的时候她刚参加工作。
When I first admitted a suspected SARS patient that year, I was on night shift with her, and had just joined the workforce when I first met her.
都说患难见真情，想来我们也是患难夫妻了，尽管当时武汉不算严重疫区吧。
Said the truth, I think we are also affected by the husband and wife, although Wuhan was not a serious epidemic bar.
她是我们医院的护士，没想到今年我们又一次披挂上阵，而且是最核心的一线。
She is the nurse of our hospital, did not think this year we once again put on the battle, and is the most core line.
【16】孩子是我们的退路这半个多月，我跟我老婆说话的次数都有限，有时，我跟她就隔一扇门，也不能去打招呼。
2007-9-24 15: 16 [hide] Kids are our escape route For more than half a month, I talk to my wife only a limited number of times, and sometimes I don't go through a door or say hello.
有时候她过来都见不到我人，我在里面。
Sometimes she doesn't even see me coming. I'm in there.
要么她见到我的时候我就已经躺在床上，说话都不想说了。
Either she sees me or I'm already in bed and I don't want to talk.
所以，有的事情都是让她帮我干，包括衣服换洗，除此之外，哪有精力去忙别的事情？现在就是这个样子。
So, there are things she does for me, including clothes changing, but otherwise, how can I have the energy to do anything else? That's what it is.
说到我们夫妻档上一线，我莫名想到自己的孩子，他快10周岁了，在读小学四年级。
Speaking of our husband and wife on the line, I can not think of their children, he is nearly 10 years old, is in the fourth grade of primary school.
我好久没回家见到他了，尽管只有不到十分钟的步行路程。
I haven't seen him in a long time, although it's only a ten-minute walk away.
好像是小年还是什么时候回去了半小时，家里人算是吃年饭嘛，安排了一下。
It seems to be a small year or when to go back for half an hour, the family is a New Year's dinner, arranged a bit.
回医院那天晚上太晚了，还抢救一个病人。
It was too late that night to go back to the hospital and save a patient.
除夕，我和爱人都在上班，我被从ICU喊出来，说我孩子要给我们视频。
On New Year's Eve, my wife and I were at work, and I was yelled out by the ICU to say my kids were giving us videos.
儿子以前从来不跟我打电话，他给我打电话往往就三句话:你什么时候回呀，吃没吃饭啊，哦，知道了，挂了。
My son never called me before, so he would call me in three words: When are you coming back, eating or not eating? Oh, I got it, hang up.
过年还突然给我打个电话，还跟我说了几句话，说你要注意安全啊，你要多快休息啊，还有新年快乐啊什么的。
New Year's Eve to give me a sudden call, and I said a few words, you should pay attention to safety, how fast you want to rest ah, and happy New Year ah and so on.
他多少可能意识到一些什么事，反正觉得长大了。
He might have realized something, but he felt grown up.
在雨夹雪的武汉，儿子给了我一个突然的小温暖，让人特别欣慰，要说我们夫妻都上一线没退路，那或许孩子就是我们的退路。
In the rain and snow in Wuhan, my son gave me a sudden small warmth, let me take special comfort, to say that our husband and wife are on the line, that children may be our way out.
【17】我也骂哭过团队里的医护人员听说有医护人员压力大哭了的，其实，我也骂哭过团队里的医护人员。
2007-9-24 15: 19 [hide] I also scold the nurses on the team who cried when they heard about the pressure on them.
因为忙的时候，容易忽视很重要的细节，这些细节往往是致命的，他忙起来可能把眼罩忘了，他忙起来可能忘记关门了。
Because busy, easy to ignore the very important details, these details are often fatal, he busy may have forgotten the blindfold, he busy may forget to close the door.
你还得保护自己的团队，保护自己的队友啊，工作的时候，你把门打开，你不小心把门打开了，东西都出来了，外面的人没有防备呀。
You have to protect your team, protect your teammates, open the door when you work, you unlock the door by mistake, everything comes out, the people outside are unguarded.
只能这样反复反复强调，反复反复严厉强调，可能他们才能跟得上你的这根弦。
You can only repeat it over and over again and again and again and again and again and again and again, maybe they can catch up with your string.
我经历过SARS，经历过H7N9，我知道传染病，可能会导致什么样的后果，因为有前车之鉴，所以不希望……我把他们带出来，带出来上阵的话，能够保一个，就一定要保一队。
I've been through SARS, I've been through H7N9, I know what infectious diseases can do, and I don't want to... I don't want... if I bring them out and bring them out, if I can keep one, I have to protect the first team.
要说压力，躲到角落去哭，可是，你医护人员有，谁没有呢，都得加班加点，那又能咋样呢，习惯了就好了。
Say pressure, hide in the corner to cry, but, you medical personnel have, who do not, have to work overtime, that how?
为了缓解压力，可能在吃饭的间隙会开个玩笑，但是，工作上真的来不得半点马虎。
To relieve stress, you might have a joke in between meals, but you really can't be sloppy at work.
及时，有效，高效，安全，重症就是这种原理，你不及时，人家挂了，你说高效，就是尽量多的救人。
Timely, effective, efficient, safe, severe is this principle, you do not timely, people hang up, you say efficient, is to save as many people as possible.
你穿个针，穿二十分钟，那扎得跟马蜂窝似的，那不安全呐，那个药，药物出现副反应，人家心里不舒服，这也是基本的职业道德。
If you wear a needle and wear it for twenty minutes, it will look like a hornet's nest. It is not safe, the medicine, the medicine has a side effect, people are uncomfortable, it is also a basic work ethic.
【18】早前谈不上爱这职业，后来转变了说到职业选择，刚开始家里人说学医，工作好找。
2007-9-24 15: 23 [hide] Love was not a profession earlier, but when it came to career choices, the family began to say that medicine was easy to find.
真正读完医学院，我都没有感觉我爱上了医生这个职业，一直到好多年以后才慢慢明白，当医生确实是应该为此做点什么。
I didn't feel like I was in love with a doctor until years passed before I realized that being a doctor really should do something about it.
你不能单纯把它当作养家糊口的一个东西，即便你知道忙完一次灾难后，大家还不是谁该干嘛干嘛，不会不用上班了，最终还是归于平凡。
You can't just think of it as a breadwinner, even if you know that after a disaster, people don't have to do what they should, don't have to go to work, and end up being ordinary.
哪一个上一线的家里没有父母，哪一个家里没有困难，每个团队里面都有每个团队的故事。
Which goes up the front line of the home without parents, which family does not have difficulties, each team has the story of each team.
刚才一个大夫跟我说，要赶着回去拿几件换洗衣服，我说行，你走吧。
Just now a doctor told me I had to hurry back to get some change. I said yes, you go.
因为武汉现在没公交，他又不会开汽车，我说那你怎么回去呢？他说走回去不太可能，去找辆摩拜骑回去吧。
Wuhan is not a bus, he can not drive, I said how do you go back? He said it is unlikely to walk back, go to find a Moby to ride back.
我说你骑回去多久？他说骑回去得一个小时。
How long do you ride back? He said it took an hour to ride back.
我说你再骑一个小时车过来，他说是啊，反正赶在九点之前来就行了。
I said you could ride here for another hour, and he said yes, just before nine o'clock anyway.
有个奶爸医生，天天要回去喂奶的，现在出了疫情问题，医院也没说啥，说什么就来什么，你说来加班，好，晚上赶过来加班。
There's a paternal doctor who goes home every day to feed his baby, And now there's an epidemic, And the hospital doesn't say anything, You say overtime, okay, come in late at night.
到了夜班再加班，再加三五个小时，也没跟我说多休一天。
When I got to the night shift, I worked overtime for three or five hours and didn't tell me to take an extra day off.
你刚才说钟小锋嘛，我们ICU护士长，她天天这段时间忙里忙外，一样没回去。
You just said that Zhong Xiaofeng, we ICU head nurse, she was busy this time of day, the same did not go back.
人家说，抢救病人的时候，这个东西没有，那个东西没有，还不是出去一肚子火。
They say that when rescuing the patient, this thing is not, that thing is not, is not out of anger.
她只能出去忙，找这个要，找那个要，大家都在抢东西，要这个要那个，然后里面几十号患者，要洗澡、排班，她女儿她也没见着。
All she had to do was go out and look for this, look for that, everybody was trying to grab something, ask for that, then a few dozen patients inside, bathe, shift, her daughter she had not seen.
小锋年前还跟我提，她说请假三天，跟女儿回老家。
Xiao Feng also told me years ago, she said to take three days off, with her daughter back home.
我说行，那你请假三天吧。
I said yes, you can take three days off.
后来一说退票了，我说你退票干嘛，我当时还觉得除夕之前半个月就搞完了。
Later on, when I told you why you returned the ticket, I thought it was half a month before New Year's Eve.
我们还有个大夫，春节前就说了准备结婚，后来她跟新郎官说，你自己看着办吧，估计我们是出不了门了，要不就推迟吧。
We have a doctor who said we were going to get married before the Spring Festival, and then she told the groom, "Do as you like.
【19】被患者和其家属认可，很享受辛苦，这是应该的，工作累啊，压力大啊，也没什么，或者又能怎样？其实大家最高兴的时候是什么事情，真的是这个病人出院或减轻症状。
2007-9-24 15: 23 [hide] It's worth it to be recognized by the patient and his family, and it's worth it, hard work, pressure, nothing, or whatever? What's the best time to be happy, it's really the patient who gets out of the hospital or reduces his symptoms.
我们这里有个最早确诊的病人，从重症病房转到普通病房住着了，ICU这里半个月之内有三个病人好转出去普通病房了，现在是这样吧。
We have one of the first confirmed patients who has been transferred from the intensive care unit to the general ward, where three patients have been admitted to the general ward within half a month.
我们第一个救治好的病人，是农村来的一个，好像家里情况也不咋地吧，仓库保管员什么的，你说那一个月能挣多少钱。
The first patient we treated was from the countryside, as if things were not very good at home, the storekeeper or something. How much money do you think you could make that month?
当时来的时候很赶的，还不能确定是不是这个病，只能说怀疑是这个病。
At that time came in a hurry, not sure whether it is the disease, can only say that the suspicion is this disease.
结果救活了，救活了出院了，准备出院的时候，家里人好像拎着一大堆橘子啊水果啊一大包，在门口等着，确实是非常感谢，等了好几个小时吧。
At the time of discharge, the family seemed to be waiting at the door with a big bag of oranges and fruit. Thank you very much indeed.
结果我们推着床出去的时候，推着新的病人，就很匆忙的过去了。
As a result, we push the bed out, push a new patient, and the rush is over.
当大夫，特别是当重病大夫，你救活一个人，那种感觉、成就，非常享受。
When a doctor, especially a seriously ill doctor, you save a person, that feeling, that achievement, that kind of enjoyment.
就是那种认可感，别人认可了你。
It's the sense of approval that people give you.
可能你救活别人，所期待的就是这一点，期待别人对你的认可。
Maybe you can save someone, expect that, expect others to approve of you.
这是真的谢谢，和那种客套话不一样，你能感受到别人对你真的认可，就是为了这一点点。
It's really thank you, and unlike that kind of ritual, you can feel that people really approve of you for just a little bit.
你说一个医生图啥呢？就是为了这一点点，一个好的结果。
What do you mean by a doctor? Just for a little bit, a good result.
【20】同舟共济，共克时艰，武汉加油正月初三以后，可能医疗防护物资都会运进武汉，加班加点几天可能会得到大幅度的缓解。
2007-9-24 15: 20 [hide] Wuhan, refueling the first three months after the first month, may be medical protection materials will be transported to Wuhan, overtime for a few days may be greatly alleviated.
但是这种疫情若不很快控制，确实需求量很大。
But the epidemic, if not quickly contained, is in great demand.
这方面，海外同学或通过同学介绍的人，电话追过来，问我要不要东西，然后愿意负担什么什么，快递怎么走啊等等，都很积极。
What can I do for youWhat can I do for youWhat can I do for youWhat can I do for youWhat can I do for youWhat can I do for you
给我一种一方有难八方支援，特别温暖的感觉。
Give me a special feeling of support and warmth.
那么多人，有认识你的，不认识你的，给你打电话，要捐款捐物资，你说图什么，也不是说钱多了没地方花啊。
So many people, who know you, do not know you, to call you, to donate money, you said the map, not to say that there is no place to spend more money ah.
你要说炒作或出名，人家也不是说捐一个口罩留个名吧，我甚至接完电话都不知道他是谁，因为他从头到尾，只说我是谁谁谁介绍来的，他姓什么我都不知道。
I don't even know who he is when I answer the phone, because he just says who I am and who introduced me. I don't know his last name.
这两天吧，也有伤心的故事，有成功的故事，也有感人的故事。
These two days, there are sad stories, there are success stories, there are touching stories.
我在重症监护室也工作20多年了，也算是见多了，今天却突然一下很感性了，不知道为什么。
I have been working in intensive care unit for more than 20 years, but today I suddenly feel very emotional, do not know why.
其实，我们真正的在一线工作的人，忙到最后只剩想着抓紧治好几个病人，就是想把别人的命救过来，就这么简单。
In fact, our real front-line workers, busy to the end only want to seize the treatment of several patients, is to save the lives of others, so simple.
汶川地震厉害，我们渡过了，非典也渡过了，禽流感也渡过了。
Wenchuan earthquake severe, we passed, SARS also passed, Avian flu also passed.
渡过这么多难关了，我相信只要大家同舟共济，共克时艰，一定还可以渡过去。
Over so many difficulties, I believe that as long as we are in the same boat together, overcome the difficult times, will certainly be able to cross.
这时候也需要你们媒体记者，从更深的角度去宣传一些东西，让大家多一些信心，不要让恐慌多于疫情，要知道任何病症都可以防控，哪怕短期内没特效药。
At this time also need your media reporters, from a deeper perspective to promote something, let us have more confidence, do not let panic more than the epidemic, you know any disease can be controlled, even if no specific medicine in the short term.
武汉，加油。
Wuhan, come on.
中国，加油。
China, come on.
【版权声明】本文由企鹅号作者潇湘晨报创作，在深圳市腾讯计算机系统有限公司下属平台独家发布，未经授权，不得转载。
This article is written by Penguin writer Xiao Xiang Morning News. It is published exclusively on the platform of Shenzhen Tencent Computer System Co. Ltd., and cannot be reproduced without authorization.
此前系列报道：武汉父母除夕去医院就诊，医生检查后说：这里有很多病毒赶紧离开10个封城后留在武汉的人：满城戴口罩，像生化危机武汉抗肺炎一线医生：病毒潜伏期比SARS长，有人一天看上百患者武汉抗肺炎一线ICU护士长口述：20天只回家两次，妈妈想探望被我拒绝更|多|新|闻○潇湘晨报隔离病毒，不隔人心！长沙为湖北籍游客开放定点酒店，民宿女老板还特意调低了房费湖南新增43例。
Wuhan parents' New Year's Eve visit to the hospital, doctors examined and said: There are plenty of viruses left behind in Wuhan: Mask Mask, Wuhan Anti-pneumonia Doctor: The incubation period of the virus is longer than SARS, one day saw hundreds of patients Wuhan anti-pneumonia first-line ICU oral:
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉ICU主任万字口述：患者1小时住满一病区，因恐慌到医院排队没必要。
Wuhan ICU Director Wancharacter dictation: one hour full of patients living in a sick area, panic to the hospital line is not necessary.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "潇湘晨报";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉ICU主任万字口述：患者1小时住满一病区，因恐慌到医院排队没必要";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "武汉，加油。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Wuhan, come on.
中国，加油。
China, come on.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '武汉父母除夕去医院就诊，医生检查后说：这里有很多病毒赶紧离开',。
At the hospital last New Year's Eve, Wuhan's parents visited a doctor who said: 'There were many viruses here that quickly left & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
subject_name: '潇湘晨报',。
subject _ name: & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '10个封城后留在武汉的人：满城戴口罩，像生化危机',。
At least 10 people who remained in Wuhan after its closure: Wearing face masks throughout the city like Rhetoric & apos;.
subject_name: '潇湘晨报',。
subject _ name: & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '武汉抗肺炎一线医生：病毒潜伏期比SARS长，有人一天看上百患者',。
First-line Wuhan anti-pneumonia doctor: The virus has a longer incubation period than SARS.
subject_name: '潇湘晨报',。
subject _ name: & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '武汉抗肺炎一线ICU护士长口述：20天只回家两次，妈妈想探望被我拒绝',。
At the dictation of Wuhan's front-line ICU head nurse against pneumonia: I only went home twice in 20 days, and my mother wanted to see my mother who refused and spoke to me.
subject_name: '潇湘晨报',。
subject _ name: & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '隔离病毒，不隔人心！长沙为湖北籍游客开放定点酒店，民宿女老板还特意调低了房费',。
Changsha has opened a designated hotel for visitors from Hubei province, and its landlady has deliberately lowered its rate at & amp; apos; s service.
subject_name: '潇湘晨报',。
subject _ name: & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '湖南新增43例',。
AT & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '潇湘晨报',。
subject _ name: & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="潇湘晨报";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
