基层疾控中心：新冠疫情到来前，“我们差点就要改没了”。
Grass-roots CDC: Before the new crown outbreak, "we almost had to change."
叶水送。
Ye Shuihui delivers.
知识分子                      。
The intellectuals.
知识分子。
The intellectuals.
知识分子是国内领先的科学新媒体平台，致力于关注科学，人文，思想，已经成为华人科学界的公共平台。
Intellectuals are the leading new scientific media platforms in China. They focus on science, humanities and ideas, and have become the public platform of Chinese science.
我们将兼容并包，时刻为渴望知识、独立思考的人努力，共享人类知识、共析现代思想、共建智趣中国。
We will be all-inclusive, always striving for knowledge, independent thinking people, sharing human knowledge, analyzing modern ideas, and jointly building intelligent China.
欢迎关注。
Welcome to attention.
。
.
基层流调人员的日常工作，图片来自济南日报撰文 | 叶水送责编 | 陈晓雪●  　● 　 ●在新冠肺炎疫情得到基本控制后，鲁风（化名）在连轴工作了一个半月后终于第一次回家。
2007-9-25 21: 48 The day-to-day work of the rank-and-file transfer personnel at the grassroots level was taken from the Jinan Daily article. Chen Xiaoxue has returned home for the first time after nearly a month and a half after the outbreak was largely contained.
“从年前在单位待命开始到最近部分人员恢复正常上下班，这期间没白天黑夜，作息打乱，经常半夜出去流调，神经高度紧张，现在明显感觉身体不支。
"From the time I was on call at work a few years ago until the recent return to normal work, there was no day or night, disruption of work, frequent midnight shifts, high levels of nervousness, and a palpable sense of loss of support.
”鲁风是国内东部一个区县疾控中心的基层职员。
Lu Feng is a grass-roots employee at a county CDC in eastern China.
自新冠疫情爆发以来，其所在的辖区有不少武汉输入病例，加上被输入病例感染的本地人员，前后总共有五六十名确诊患者。
Since the outbreak of the outbreak, there have been a number of imported cases from Wuhan in the area under its jurisdiction, together with a total of 50-60 confirmed cases of infection by local staff.
地方基层疾控中心平日的工作就让他们忙得脚不着地，新冠肺炎疫情的降临，更让他们的工作压力短时间内倍增。
Local grass-roots CDC work on a daily basis let them not touch the ground, the outbreak of new crown pneumonia, their work pressure doubled in a short period of time.
目前，全国拥有3500个各级疾控中心，从国家到地方，共分四级疾控体系（国家、省、市，以及县级疾控中心）。
At present, China has 3,500 Centers for Disease Control at all levels, with a four-level disease control system (national, provincial, municipal, and county-level CDC) from national to local levels.
像鲁风这样的来自地方疾控中心的基层疾控中心人员，全国有19万之众。
There are 190,000 people at the grass-roots CDC like Lu Feng from the local CDC.
新冠疫情爆发后，从湖北或武汉出来的、流散在全国各地人口高达500万，这些人去往何处、哪些人是低风险、哪些人是高风险，哪些人同疑似感染者或确诊患者有密切接触，如此庞杂的流行病学调查工作，基本落在了鲁风这样的基层流调人员身上。
Since the outbreak of the New Guang epidemic, the vast epidemiological investigation has largely fallen on grass-roots migrant workers, such as Lu Feng, who came from Hubei or Wuhan and dispersed throughout the country, where they went, who were at low risk and who were at high risk, and who had close contact with suspected or confirmed patients.
然而在新冠肺炎疫情爆发之前，各地方疾控中心不被重视。
Before the outbreak of new crown pneumonia, however, local CDC was not taken seriously.
2019年医疗卫生系统的改革，多地疾控中心被撤销，人员分流。
The 2019 reform of the health system saw the dismantling of disease control centres and the diversion of personnel.
“本来我们已经做好了随时被撤销，并入其他单位或成立新单位的准备，没想到来了这么大的疫情。
"We were ready to be abolished at any time, incorporated into other units or set up new units, but we did not expect such an outbreak.
我们差点就要改没了。
We almost had to change.
”鲁风说。
"said Lu Feng.
加上此次疫情早期，国家疾控中心（CDC）因 “为何不提早拉响警报”、“在疫情早期研判上为何说出有限人传人”，一时间成为舆论的众矢之的。
Add to that the early stages of the epidemic, and the National CDC was suddenly the target of public opinion for "why not sound the alarm early" and "tell us why there are so few people passing from one person to another in the early stages of the epidemic."
而在疫情防控和流行病调查方面的基层疾控人员，几乎在公众面前 “消失”。
And grass-roots disease controllers in disease control and epidemiological investigation have "disappeared" in front of the public.
实际上，他们一直身处前线，担负着疫情 “侦察兵” 的角色。
Indeed, they have been on the front lines, serving as "scouts" against the epidemic.
疫情防控就是抢时间在疫情期间，流调工作可能随时会出现，而且现场流调结束后需要24小时内尽快出调查报告。
Epidemic prevention and control is to seize the time during the epidemic, the transfer may occur at any time, and the scene after the completion of the transfer needs to be 24 hours as soon as possible.
“报告一写就是几小时，熬夜通宵是家常便饭。
'For hours at a time, staying up all night is the norm.
”鲁风说，“疫情防控就是抢时间，工作繁重，人手缺乏，所以晚上的时间都要利用起来，整个单位员工熬夜的情况都很常见，疾控中心领导层在疫情期间也基本都在熬夜。
'Prevention and control of an epidemic is a fight against time, a heavy workload and a lack of staff, so we need to take advantage of the evenings, 'said Mr. Lu.
”1月30日深夜某疾控中心依旧灯火通明，图片来自南通发布所谓的流调是流行病学调查的简称，指疾控人员到疫情现场开展调查，与患者交流，询问其在发病前后的一些暴露情况、接触情况以及活动轨迹、就医情况，以寻找与传染源、传播途径和密切接触者有关的线索。
Late at night on January 30, a CDC still has lights on, with Nantong announcing that the so-called "epidemic" is the acronym for epidemiological investigation. The CDC goes to the scene of the epidemic to investigate, communicate with patients, ask them about their exposure before and after the outbreak, contact information and medical attention to find clues about the source of infection, transmission routes and close contacts.
鲁风所在的辖区大多数感染者来自武汉，即使是本地病例也都是曾与武汉返乡的患者密切接触感染的。
Most of the infected people in Lufeng's area come from Wuhan, and even local cases have been infected in close contact with the returning Wuhan patients.
“这些病例都与武汉相关，在所有武汉返乡人员及其密切接触者都被一一排查过后，所有出现相关症状和新冠病毒核酸检测阳性的患者都被应收尽收，应治尽治，现在也没有新病例出现了”，鲁风表示，“目前我们防控的重点是，国外输入性的病例”。
"These cases are all related to Wuhan, and after all Wuhan returnees and their close contacts have been cleared up, all patients with relevant symptoms and Nucleic acid positive are collected, treated and no new cases have appeared," said Mr Lufeng.
疫情初期，行动“被动”早在2019年年底，国内就有媒体报道不明原因肺炎，作为地方疾控中心一线人员自然不会忽略这些信息。
At the beginning of the outbreak, the operation was "passive" as early as the end of 2019, the domestic media reported unclear causes of pneumonia, as a local CDC front-line personnel will not ignore this information.
鲁风所在的疾控中心在去年12月就一直在关注这次疫情。
Lu's CDC has been monitoring the outbreak since December.
虽然有心备战，一切又显得非常被动：疾控中心长期的角色问题，让他们只有接到上级通知后才能行动。
Though prepared for war, everything was passive: the CDC's long-term role allowed them to act only if notified by their superiors.
“我们虽然关注新冠肺炎疫情，但所在辖区无病例、上级无通知，只能待命。
"Although we are concerned about the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia, we have no cases and no superior notice and can only stand by.
” 鲁风说。
"said Lu Feng.
而所谓的备战，也主要是信息收集和物资储备，以及开展相应宣传和培训。
The so-called preparations for war are mainly information gathering and material reserves, as well as the corresponding publicity and training.
为何一直处于备战待命状态？鲁风也提出了他的看法：“疾控的独立性很差，因为疾控是属于卫健委下属事业单位，卫健委又是政府的一个部门，长期养成的惯性和墨守成规的法则，所以地区疾控工作的步调基本是跟地方政府一致的。
"The CDC is very independent, because the CDC is an institution under the Health Protection Commission, and the Wei Bodyguard Commission is a department of the government. The long-established inertia and conformist rules, the pace of disease control in the region is basically the same as that of local governments.
”对于基层疾控人员来说，即使没有新冠疫情，他们一年到头也基本都在抗疫阵线上，平时处理的各类疫情，可能大多数不为大众和媒体所知。
For grass-roots disease controllers, even in the absence of a new crown, they remain largely on the front line throughout the year, with most of the types of outbreaks likely unknown to the public and the media.
鲁风说，疾控中心下面有很多个科室，负责传染病监测的只是其中一个科室，只要医疗机构上报，他们就要在第一时间开展流行病学调查以及相应处置工作。
Lu said there are many departments under the CDC, only one of which is responsible for infectious disease surveillance, and as soon as the medical institutions report, they have to carry out the epidemiological investigation and corresponding treatment at the first time.
除了疾控的日常工作，辖区内严重精神障碍患者的管理工作也由疾控中心承担，“很多人估计不可思议，这工作怎么会跟疾控扯上关系，我们也有些不解，但可能是这些工作找不到相应更专业的机构承担，就让疾控中心来承担起来了吧。
In addition to the day-to-day work of disease control, the CDC is also responsible for the management of people with severe mental disorders in their jurisdictions. "Many people think it's incredible how this is related to disease control.
” 鲁风表示。
Mr Lu said.
1月20日，钟南山提出新冠肺炎出现了人传人现象；同日，国家卫生健康委员会将新冠肺炎纳入乙类传染病，并采取甲类传染病的预防、控制措施，同时将新冠肺炎纳入规定的检疫传染病管理中来。
On January 20, Zhong Nan Shan reported human-to-human transmission of pneumonia. On the same day, the State Council of Health added the new crown pneumonia to Class B infectious diseases and adopted measures to prevent and control Class A infectious diseases.
此时鲁风所在的疾控中心才正式开始应对新冠肺炎疫情。
At this point Lu Feng's CDC only officially began to respond to the outbreak of new crown pneumonia.
其所在的地方政府立即成立了疫情防控办公室。
Its local government immediately set up an epidemic prevention and control office.
“我们是1月21日省市区三级开过会后基本全面动员了”，鲁风表示，“疫情防疫办公室设在地方卫健委，主要以地方行政机构主要领导牵头，当然成员也包括市区两级疾控中心领导。
"We basically mobilized after the meeting on January 21 at the provincial and municipal levels," Lu said. "The epidemic prevention office is based in the local health committee and is led mainly by local administrative bodies.
”随后，当地的防控办公室开始下发一系列文件和指导性方案，不断召集各乡镇机关开会，在全区开展相应宣传工作；之后，又对所有武汉和湖北返乡人员开展摸排登记工作，逐渐关闭辖区所有公共营业场所，疾控中心也派出人员对为保障民生而未关闭的超市等公共场所开展疫情防控及消杀指导工作，并要求各医疗卫生单位做好防护，规范开设发热门诊。
Subsequently, the local Office of Control and Prevention began issuing a series of documents and guidance programs, convening meetings with township organs to conduct corresponding publicity work throughout the district. Subsequently, the CDC conducted mapping of all Wuhan and Hubei returnees and gradually closed all public places under their jurisdiction.
这时候，基层的疾控人员工作更繁忙了，除了常规的信息收集、物资储备、人员培训以及居民宣教外，还增加了流行病学调查、消杀、封锁、疫情研判等工作。
At the same time, disease controllers at the grass-roots level have become more busy, adding epidemiological investigations, eradication, blockades and disease diagnosis, in addition to routine information gathering, material reserves, staff training and public education.
“我们需要在单位待命，不能回家，”鲁风回忆道。
"We need to stand by at work and not go home," Mr. Lu recalls.
由于疫情期间，所有餐馆都关闭了，在岗人员的吃饭成了问题，好在他们单位解决了这些问题。
As all restaurants were closed during the outbreak, the meal of the staff on duty became a problem, but they were able to solve these problems.
新冠疫情期间，除非涉及患者生命的工作，地方疾控中心的常规工作停滞，鲁风和同事把所有的精力都投入在了抗击新冠疫情上。
During the New Crown Epidemic, Lu and his colleagues devoted all their energies to fighting the new crown, unless life-threatening work at the local CDC stalled.
鲁风说，这次疫情基层疾控基本都全员在岗，全部参与。
Lu Feng said that this epidemic grass-roots disease control are basically all staff in the post, all involved.
“县区级疾控配备一般都是50到100人之间，我们单位也是，即使这样人手也不够，于是只能从其他相关机构借人。
"County-level disease control equipment is usually between 50 and 100 people, our unit is also, even this is not enough staff, so can only borrow from other relevant agencies.
”疫情中的“侦察兵”在应对此次新冠肺炎疫情上，地方疾控、政府以及医院如何相互配合和分工，鲁风他们的主要工作是什么？鲁风介绍，地方疾控中心是“侦察兵”，主动出击，为政府献言献策，发现病例关联线索及时上报，尽快管理与病例密切接触的人群，开展消杀，为后续部队的进入开辟道路，而地方政府如同“将军”，是战场上的指挥者、领导者，统筹全局，医院则如同 “士兵”，收治病例并进行治疗，他们参与抗疫的队伍当然也最为庞大。
Lu said that the local CDC is the "scouts," and the local CDC is the "scouts," the active contribution to the government, the discovery of case-related clues timely reported, as quickly as possible with close contact with the crowd, conduct eradication, hospital as a "general," hospital admission and treatment of cases, their participation in the fight against the disease is certainly the largest.
疫情中的基层疾控人员现场进行流调。
Outbreak in the grass-roots disease control personnel on the scene to transfer.
图源来自南通发布当所在辖区出现疑似病例时，医疗机构会报送至疾控中心，然后疾控中心人员第一时间进入病房与患者交流，获悉患者的基本信息、发病、诊疗经过及临床表现、患者发病前14天居住和旅行史、可疑暴露史、接触者的情况等相关信息，以及开展咽拭纸采样工作。
When a suspected case occurs in the Nantong area, the medical institution will report it to the CDC. The CDC staff will then immediately enter the ward to communicate with the patient, and learn about the patient's basic information, pathogenesis, diagnosis and clinical manifestation, residence and travel history 14 days before the onset of illness, suspicious exposure history, contact information, and swabbing paper sampling.
这些工作完成后，他们需要在24小时内完成这名患者的调查报告与研判工作，以便提出下一步疫情防控工作建议。
Upon completion of these tasks, they will need to complete the patient's investigation report and research within 24 hours in order to make recommendations for the next steps in the prevention and control of the disease.
“一名患者的全套流程下来几乎要持续一天的时间，工作量巨大，这也是疾控工作最危险的地方，因为多数疑似患者最后可能都会确诊，如果我们在面对被感染的患者几个小时的过程中，防护不到位或者出现防护意外，那被感染的可能性很大。
"The whole process of a patient takes almost a day to complete, and the workload is enormous, and this is where disease control is most dangerous, because most suspected patients may end up with a high risk of infection if we don't have protection in place or an accident in the face of an infected patient for hours.
”鲁风表示。
Mr Lu said.
尤其是在疫情早期，对病毒缺乏全面了解的情况下，如何做好自身防护，也无参考指标。
Especially in the early stage of the epidemic, the lack of a comprehensive understanding of the virus, how to do their own protection, there is no reference indicators.
《知识分子》问鲁风有没有担心自己被感染，他表示，“一直担心自己被感染，所以一直没与家人见面，都睡在单位”。
"The intellectuals asked Lufeng if he was worried about being infected," he said. "He was always worried about his infection, so he never saw his family and slept at work."
所幸的是，鲁风所在的疾控中心无工作人员感染新冠肺炎。
Luckily, none of the staff at Lu's CDC contracted pneumonia.
“但如果病毒再烈性一些，可能会有，烈性病毒能穿透二级防护，出现人员牺牲，我们也肯定是最先牺牲的一批公职人员”。
"But if the virus had been more aggressive, there might have been high-level viruses that could have penetrated secondary protection, resulting in loss of life, and we would have been the first group of public officials to die."
鲁风打趣道。
Lu Feng joked.
在流调过程中，也有很多令鲁风难忘的时刻。
During the transfer process, there are also many unforgettable moments for Lu Feng.
“大多数患者被定性为疑似甚至被确诊后不少人心情很压抑，甚至有人得知消息时一下子就晕倒，还有人平平淡淡无所谓，什么样的都有，但肯定是以悲观的为主，曾经有一个刚生过孩子的女患者，得知检测阳性时，立马就哭了，说我小孩刚出来，不能以后没有妈妈。
"Most patients are characterized as suspicious or even diagnosed with depression, even when someone hears the news and suddenly faints, or whatever, but it must be pessimistic. A woman who has recently given birth to a child cries immediately when she learns that her child has just come out and cannot go without a mother.
我们当时能做的只是极力安慰。
All we could have done was offer comfort.
”基层疾控中心举步维艰，“差点就改没了”基层疾控人员工作内容繁杂，压力大，相应的人力物力也很不到位，因此离职率很高。
"CDC grass-roots level," almost changed the work of the grass-roots CDC personnel complex work, pressure, and the corresponding human and material resources are not in place, so the turnover rate is very high.
事实上，这与疾控中心近年来不断被边缘化、不被重视有关。
In fact, this has to do with the continued marginalization and invisibility of the CDC in recent years.
2018年，沈阳市对当地疾病预防控制中心进行改革2018年，沈阳市疾病预防控制中心、沈阳市卫生监督所等单位整合为沈阳市卫生健康服务与行政执法中心，为市属卫生计生委所属事业单位，不定机构规格。
In 2018, Shenyang reformed the local center for disease control and prevention. In 2018, the Shenyang Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and Shenyang Health Supervision Center were integrated into Shenyang Health Service and Administrative Enforcement Center.
2019年，医疗卫生系统大力推进改革，全国多地疾控中心被撤销，人员被分流。
In 2019, the health-care system was overhauled, disease control centres were abolished and personnel were diverted throughout the country.
“本来我们已经做好了随时被撤销，并入其他单位或成立新单位的准备，没想到来了这么大的疫情，下一步怎么改，我们也不知道，我们差点就要改没了”。
"We were ready to be abolished at any time, incorporated into other units or set up new units, but we didn't know what to do next."
鲁风说。
said Lu Feng.
而在2003年“非典”之后，全国各级疾控中心的体系建设不断完善，投入也在加大。
After SARS in 2003, the system of disease control centers at all levels throughout the country was being improved and input was increasing.
但自此之后，疾控系统的改革不仅停滞，疾控中心还不断地被边缘化，直接后果就是疾控中心不仅地位低，不被重视，投入也大幅下滑。
Since then, however, reform of the disease-control system has not only stalled, but the CDC has continued to be marginalized, with the direct result that the CDC is not only low-status, low-profile, and its input has plummeted.
根据中华预防医学会新型冠状病毒肺炎防控专家组最近在《中华流行病学杂志》介绍，2014年国家 “公共卫生专项任务经费” 的项目拨款为5.29亿，而到了2019年这笔预算下降到4.5亿，同比下降14.9%。
According to a recent report in the Chinese Journal of Epidemiology, the CPMA's expert group on the prevention and control of coronavirus pneumonia reported that the national budget allocation for special tasks in public health in 2014 was 529 million, but by 2019 it had dropped to 450 million, a decrease of 14.9 percent.
专家组还认为，近些年来疾控中心的改革一直在走下坡路。
The Group also believes that CDC reform has been declining in recent years.
2009年，启动的新一轮医疗体制改革，忽略了公共卫生的重要性，疾控中心推行的绩效工资改革，最终演变成新一轮的大锅饭，严重挫伤了疾控人员的积极性，导致专业人才大量流失。
In 2009, when a new round of health-care reform was launched, neglecting the importance of public health, the CDC's performance-based wage reform culminated in a new round of pot-eating, severely demoralizing disease controllers and leading to a massive loss of expertise.
2017年4月，疾控中心作为公益一类事业单位的 “预防性体检收费” 等3项收费还被取消，从此基层疾控彻底没有任何收入来源，全靠地方政府拨款，然而大部分地区财政保障不到位，机构运转举步维艰。
In April 2017, the CDC as a public welfare institution such as the "preventive medical examination fees" and other charges have been abolished, since the grassroots CDC has no source of income at all, relying entirely on local government funding. However, financial security is not in place in most areas and institutions are struggling to function.
此前钟南山院士也向媒体呼吁，疾控中心的地位低，独立性差，由此导致他们难以在第一时间将疫情的研判声音传递出去。
Earlier, academicians also appealed to the media that the CDC's low status and lack of independence made it difficult for them to pass on the disease's findings in the first place.
实际上，目前国内疾控系统还存在离职率高，人才难以吸引等问题。
In fact, the current disease control system in China is still high turnover rate, difficult to attract talent and other issues.
“我所在的学校公卫学科排名一直居于全国前列，但同学进疾控的非常少，我这一届毕业的大概只有10%的同学进入疾控系统，有同学毕业后做生意去了，还有同学去当城管。
"My school has always been one of the highest in the country in terms of public health, but very few of my classmates are in control of disease control. Only about 10 percent of my classmates have entered the disease control system.
” 鲁风表示，要想留住人，不仅应该提升疾控中心的地位，还 “应该健全预防医学执业资格，健全疾控防治体系，提高疾控机构收入水平。
To retain people, Lu said, it was necessary not only to upgrade the CDC's status, but also "to improve medical practice qualifications, improve disease control and prevention systems and raise the level of income of disease control agencies."
”参考资料1.名实不副地位太低——你可能不知道的中国疾控往事. 八点健闻. 2020.2.钟南山：国内疾控中心地位太低了. 观察者网. 2020.3.关于疾病预防控制体系现代化建设的思考与建议.中华流行病学杂志. 2020. DOI：10.3760/cma.j.cn112338-20200225-00166.进入知识分子公众号点击菜单栏【新冠疫情】获取更多文章制版编辑|皮皮鱼点击阅读原文，查看知识分子网站“聚焦新型冠状病毒”专题。
Reference 1. Real name is too low - you may not be aware of China's disease history. Eight-point anecdote. 2020.2. Zhong Nan Shan: Considerations and Suggestions for Modernizing China's Disease Prevention and Control System.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
基层疾控中心：新冠疫情到来前，“我们差点就要改没了”。
Grass-roots CDC: Before the new crown outbreak, "we almost had to change."
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "知识分子";。
Var nickname = & quot; intellectuals & quot;;
var msg_title = "基层疾控中心：新冠疫情到来前，“我们差点就要改没了”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; grass-roots CDC: "We nearly lost" and & quot; before the new crown outbreak.
var msg_desc = "“应该健全预防医学执业资格，健全疾控防治体系，提高疾控机构收入水平。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "We should improve our preventive medicine practice qualifications, our disease-control system, and our disease-control agency revenue.
”";。
";;
title: '两千五中小微民企：15%考虑裁员',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '知识分子',。
subject _ name: & apos; intellectual & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;
title: '6成企业现金流撑不过3个月：北大调研中小微企业最需要什么',。
& nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '知识分子',。
subject _ name: & apos; intellectual & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;
title: '世卫考察组代表：要认识到武汉人民的贡献，世界亏欠你们！',。
A representative of WHO's team: To recognize the contribution of Wuhan people, the world owes you a debt!
subject_name: '知识分子',。
subject _ name: & apos; intellectual & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;
var title ="知识分子";。
Valle = & quot; Intellectuals & quot;;
