武汉社区经历了什么。
Wuhan community has experienced what.
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
2月29日，武汉，一名居民扫码付款给送货人员。
February 29, Wuhan, a resident sweep the code to pay the delivery personnel.
中青报·中青网记者 赵迪/摄本文约4533字预计阅读时间13分钟作者 | 中青报·中青网记者 张均斌编辑 | 张国武汉在新冠肺炎疫情最紧张的时候，这座城市每天需要增加3000张病床，相当于每天要建成3家三级医院。
Zhongqing Pneumonia News Correspondent Zhao Di / Photo About 4533 Words Estimated Reading Time At the height of the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic, Zhang Jinbin, a journalist with the China Youth Daily, needs an additional 3,000 beds a day, the equivalent of three level-III hospitals a day.
有十几天时间，洪山区梨园街道新世纪社区党委书记刘婷都要面对床位的供需矛盾：辖区3104户居民把她当成了“救命稻草”，她的电话从早接到晚，求助的、批评的、感谢的，基本都是为了那一张病床。
For more than 10 days, Liu Ting, secretary of the new century community party committee in Hongshan District, faced a conflict between the supply and demand of beds: 3,104 households in the district treated her as a "lifeline." Her calls came in the morning, asking for help, criticism and gratitude, mostly for one bed.
突如其来的疫情里，社区成了居民外出就医的必经环节，也成了人们情绪直接的宣泄口。
Sudden epidemic situation, the community has become the residents to go out to seek medical treatment, but also a direct outlet for people's emotions.
这些工作人员，见到城市由最初的慌乱到恢复秩序，也见到了人类在紧急状态下的种种应激反应。
These workers, seeing the city from initial panic to the restoration of order, also saw the human response to emergencies.
恐 慌江汉区民族街龙王庙社区党委书记杨茜记得，1月23日武汉“封城”消息传来后，她所在的工作微信群里立即“炸了”，有的同事因为自己咳嗽，非常害怕，还有人担心万一自己跟居民接触得了病，再传染给一家老小。
Fearing panic-stricken Jianghan District ethnic street Longwangmiao community party secretary Yang Ci remembered that after the news of the Wuhan "closed city" on January 23, her work micro-group immediately "bombed," some colleagues because of their coughing, fear of the residents in the event of contact with the disease, then spread to the family.
跟普通居民一样，他们也是从新闻报道里，才知道病毒“肯定有人传人”；他们也四处寻找口罩，并为总要与人密切接触而忐忑不安。
Like ordinary residents, they know from news reports that the virus "must have passed from person to person"; they also look around for masks, and often feel uneasy about being in close contact with others.
刘婷说，当时社区工作人员一上班就要接电话，手机、座机不间断地响，有向他们要口罩、温度计的，有让他们帮忙买药的，也有发热后要求送医的。
Liu Ting said that community workers had to answer the phone at work, mobile phones, landline uninterruptedly, asked them to ask for masks, thermometers, some asked them to help buy medicine, some fever after the request to see a doctor.
打不通电话的人直接涌向社区，上来就痛斥的也有，急眼了还拍桌子。
Unable to call the people directly to the community, came up to denounce also have, anxious also pat the table.
新世纪社区统计居民发热情况的表格上，数字直线上升，“每天至少二三十例”，刘婷说，居民只要觉得身体不舒服就会马上找社区，虽然事后发现大部分人没有感染，但当时，大家都紧张得不得了。
"There were at least 20 or 30 cases a day," Liu said, adding that residents who felt ill immediately turned to the community. Although most of them were found not to be infected, they were extremely nervous.
社区每天将表格上报给政府的最低一级机构——街道办事处，除此之外，他们只能等待通知，安抚居民。
In addition to reporting the forms daily to the lowest level of government, the neighbourhood offices, the communities have had to wait for notification to appease residents.
2月17日，湖北省孝感市三里棚社区第六网格，社区工作人员在询问一名打算出社区的居民。
February 17, Hubei province Xiaoyan City Sanli shanty community grid No. 6, community workers are asking a community planning to leave the residents.
中青报·中青网记者李隽辉/摄1月24日，社区的压力进一步升级了，武汉市决定全面实行发热市民分级分类就医服务。
Zhongqing News Zhongqing Zhonghui journalist Li meaningful / She January 24, community pressure further escalated, Wuhan City decided to fully implement the fever citizens classification of medical services.
社区负责全面排查发热病人，并将病人送至社区医院对病情进行筛查、分类。
The community is responsible for the complete screening of febrile patients, and the patients sent to the community hospital for screening, classification.
对于需要到定点医院发热门诊救治的病人，由社区安排车辆送去就诊。
For patients requiring outpatient treatment at designated hospitals, the community arranges for the transport of vehicles to see a doctor.
武昌区中南路街道百瑞景社区党委副书记李霞记得，有一天，一位70多岁的老太太跪在了社区门口，哭着说儿子发烧“快不行了”，马上要去住院。
Li Xia, deputy secretary of the Bai Ruijing community party committee on Zhongnan Road in Wuchang district, remembers one day kneeling at the door of the community, crying that her son was "dying of fever" and was about to be hospitalized.
工作人员赶紧上报了情况。
The staff reported the situation quickly.
两天后，街道办事处回复，可以先将病人送到酒店隔离。
Two days later, the street office replied that the patient could be taken to the hotel for isolation.
再联系时，那位病人却拒绝了，说当时只是有些不舒服，微微发热，已经好了。
When contacted again, the patient actually refused, saying that it was only a little uncomfortable, a little feverish, already good.
社区医院给他做了各种检测，发现确实没有问题。
He was tested at the community hospital and found no problems.
但李霞说，为这一位病人，他们前前后后沟通了20多次，上报催促过好几次。
But Li Xia said they had communicated with each other more than 20 times and had been urged several times.
类似的情况刚开始很多，“真的能感觉到当时大家恐慌到了极致”。
Similar situation is just beginning a lot, "really can feel the panic at that time to the acme".
百瑞景社区党委书记王涯玲注意到疫情的严重性是在1月初。
Barry King community party secretary Wang Yanling noted the severity of the outbreak in early January.
武汉市早期通报的41个确诊病例中，有一例就出现在百瑞景社区。
Of the 41 confirmed cases reported earlier in Wuhan, one occurred in the Burberry Finn community.
她记得，那位患者1月初就从金银潭医院康复出院了。
She remembers that the patient recovered from the Golden and Silver Pool Hospital in early January and was discharged.
随后，区卫健局工作人员来到社区，让社区对患者一家进行“包保”，要求患者家属居家隔离14天，医生要每天上门量体温。
Later, District Health Bureau staff came to the community, let the community to the patient's family "warranty," the patient's family home isolation for 14 days, the doctor every day to take temperature.
这件事让她对疫情提高了警惕。
The incident alerted her to the outbreak.
为此，他们取消了原本要举办的社区“百家宴”活动，也取消了面向社区孩子的寒假托管班，建议居民尽量不要出门。
To this end, they cancelled the original community "100 banquet" activities, but also cancelled the community-based children's winter care classes, residents are advised to try not to go out.
他们甚至1月28日就关闭了小区的多数出入口。
They even closed most of the entrances to the neighbourhood on January 28th.
但是，更多社区当时缺乏准备，只能在后来的工作中打“补丁”，又苦于人手不足。
However, many more communities were ill-prepared to "patch" later in their work and suffered from a shortage of staff.
等到2月11日武汉市对所有小区实施封闭管理时，有的小区一时做不到封锁所有出口，居民出入如常。
Until February 11, Wuhan City imposed a closed management of all small areas, some can not temporarily block all the exits, residents in and out as usual.
一位社区党委书记对记者说，在武汉市截至2月9日的“大排查”中，他们用尽全力也只排查了8000多户居民中的2000多户。
A Communist Party secretary told reporters that in Wuhan, more than 2,000 of the more than 8,000 households had been screened as part of a "clean-up" exercise as of February 9.
2月19日，武汉百步亭社区，两位老人在晾晒被单。
Two elderly people dry their sheets in the Baibuting community of Wuhan on February 19.
中青报·中青网记者 赵迪/摄等 待外面交通管制，医院拥挤不堪，为了能从社区“排”到一张床位，不少人跑去哭诉求助。
Zhongqing News China Youth Net reporter Zhao Di / camera wait outside traffic control, the hospital is crowded, in order to be able to "row" from the community to a bed, many people go to cry for help.
“如果我家×××出了什么事，你要负责”类似的话，刘婷不知听了多少，早已经“免疫”了。
"If something happened to my family, you should be responsible" similar words, Liu Ting did not know how much, has been "immune."
她理解，大家都很着急。
She understood that everyone was anxious.
让她格外难过的是那种“无力感”。
What made her especially sad was the feeling of powerlessness.
她接到过一位女儿的求助电话：母亲属于疑似病例，2月1日去世，还没等到确诊，第二天父亲和哥哥又发烧了。
She got a call from a daughter whose mother had died on February 1, a day before she was diagnosed, and her father and brother had a fever the next day.
刘婷立即把这户居民的情况上报。
Liu Ting immediately reported the situation of this family.
等待的过程中，患者情况越来越糟，那位女儿几次在电话里哭到失声，刘婷觉得自己也要“崩溃”了。
As she waited, the patient got worse and worse. The daughter cried herself out on the phone several times. Liu Ting felt like she was going to "crash."
为此，刘婷与街道办事处领导打电话时也嚎啕大哭。
For this reason, Liu Ting and street office leaders when the phone wail.
她觉得自己这么卖力地在为社区做事，但是缺少有效的解决方案，“我坚持不住了”。
She felt she was working so hard for the community, but lacked an effective solution, "I can't hold on."
那几天，刘婷因扁桃体发炎也在发烧，但她不敢对任何人说。
Those days, Liu Ting because of tonsillitis also fevers, but she did not dare to tell anyone.
“我必须要撑住”，她说，自己一遍遍打电话询问居民的身体情况，一次次做表上报，就是希望表格上的数字每天减少一些，可是得到的回复往往是“没有床位，真的没有床位”。
"I've got to hold on," she said, calling residents over and over to ask about their health and reporting back and forth in the hope that the numbers on the form would decrease daily, but often they said, "No beds, really no beds.
那位打电话求助的女儿，是一位在外地工作的教师，原计划回武汉探亲一周，没想到最后送走了双亲。
The daughter who called for help, a teacher in the field, had planned to return to Wuhan to visit her family for a week, only to see off her parents.
她后来在隔离点第一次见到了刘婷——刘婷当时因为与感染者接触而被隔离。
She later met Liu Ting for the first time at the quarantine site, where Liu Ting was isolated because she was in contact with infected people.
她手写了一封感谢信，感谢帮助过自己的社区工作人员。
She wrote a thank-you note thanking the community workers who had helped her.
在这封整整齐齐的信里，她感谢了曾陪她痛哭、为她家人跑前跑后、自费帮她购药的人。
In this neatly organized letter, she thanked those who had cried with her, run and run for her family, and bought her medicine at her own expense.
其中一位社区“网格员”，得知她未感染时发出的“爽朗笑声”，让她觉得“仿佛一束阳光照入我黑暗的心中”。
One of the community "grid workers", learning that she was not infected when the "bright laughter", let her feel "like a ray of sunshine into my dark heart."
“好久没听到笑声了！这笑声给予了多大的温暖是无法言明的。
"I haven't heard laughter for a long time! How much warmth it has given me is inexplicable.
”她说。
'she said.
她还说，这些天，自己流的泪是最多的，说的“谢谢”也是最多的。
She also said that these days, he shed the most tears, said "thank you" is also the most.
“父母离世，家就没了！心中痛楚万分，但我仍强迫自己提起笔，写下这封感谢信，因为我要记住在这艰难时期，你们给予我的温暖和支持！这将是我余生走下去的一个动力……”“等疫情危险解除，我一定要抱抱你们。
It hurts so much, but I still force myself to write this thank-you note because I want to remember the warmth and support you have given me for the rest of my life.
”这是她表达的愿望。
It was her wish.
求 生为了“抢”一张病床，百瑞景社区党委书记王涯玲每天零点左右都会守着工作群，街道工作人员这时候会告诉大家今天有几张病床，早早准备好患者资料的社区书记们会马上“抢”这几个名额。
In order to "grab" a bed, Barry King community party secretary Wang Tianling will guard the work group around midnight every day, the street staff will tell you that there are several beds today, the early prepared patients will be ready to "grab" the number of places.
“病床只有这么多，那肯定是先到先得了。
"There are only so many beds, on a first-come, first-served basis
”王涯玲说，当时床位紧张，分配下来，一个街道少的时候每天只能分到3张病床，多的时候也只有10张左右，远远不够。
Wang said the beds were so tight that when there were few streets, there were only three beds a day, and sometimes only about 10, which was far from enough.
一个家庭三口人全都感染，两位老人都70多岁，向社区上报时，父母将儿子的病情描述得更为严重，等了5天，儿子有了床位。
All three members of a family were infected, and both were in their 70s. When the parents reported to the community, they described their son's condition more seriously and waited five days before his son had a bed.
没想到儿子刚住下，第二天，父亲自己就呼吸困难接受抢救了，最后没抢救过来。
Unexpectedly the son just lived, the next day, the father himself breathing difficulties to receive rescue, finally did not rescue.
社区工作人员提起这件事就感到后悔。
The community workers regretted the mention of the incident.
“老人一开始可能是撑着，看到儿子住进去了，心情一松懈就垮了。
"The old man might have been bracing himself at first, but when he saw his son move in, he relaxed and collapsed.
当时让老人先住进去可能就好了。
It might have been nice to let the old man live in first.
”据多位社区工作人员反映，当时拍肺部CT、做核酸检测、住院等都要等待，六七天能等来一张病床是幸运的。
Several community workers said they were waiting for a lung CT, a nucleic acid test, a hospital, and six or seven days to get a bed.
为了一张病床，武汉人想尽了各种办法，市长热线、举报电话、微博求助……李霞也建议居民通过各个渠道求助，“我们最后真的没办法了，说不定你反映了以后，事情能够解决得快一点。
In order to a bed, Wuhan people want to do everything possible, the mayor's hotline, reporting telephone, Weibo for help... Li Xia also advised residents to seek help through various channels, "we really can not finally do, perhaps you reflect that things can be resolved faster.
”有居民投诉后，上级派人到社区了解情况，李霞说，只要你们能够尽快把病人安排好，我认罚。
"When residents complained, the superior sent someone to the community to find out," Li Xia said.
2月18日，湖北省武汉市青扬十街社区工作人员曾女士正在统计居民反馈需求。
On February 18, Ms. Zeng, a community worker at Qingyang Tenth Street in Wuhan, Hubei Province, was surveying residents' feedback needs.
中青报·中青网见习记者鲁冲/摄江汉区民族街和平社区副书记汪沛记得，1月26日，两位70多岁的老人被儿子送回这里的一处旧宅隔离。
On January 26, two 70-year-olds were sent back to an old house by their son to be quarantined, Wang Pai, deputy secretary of the ethnic street and peace community in the ethnic area of Zhonghan District.
他们CT显示双肺感染，当时算疑似病例，排队等待核酸检测。
They showed two-lung infection on CT, a suspected case, queuing up for a nucleic acid test.
两位老人看上去精神状态就不太好，生活勉强能够自理，还通过社区联系购买过食物。
The two elderly men looked mentally ill, barely able to fend for themselves, and had bought food through community connections.
当时社区人手不足，14个工作人员面对着900多户居民，忙得不可开交，只能早晚给老人打电话，询问一下情况。
At that time, the community was understaffed, with 14 staff members facing more than 900 households, and had to call the elderly sooner or later to enquire about the situation.
据汪沛回忆，2月1日早上，他们拨通了男主人的电话，老人答了几句就挂了，下午再拨过去，无人接听。
On the morning of February 1, Wang Pai recalled, he dialed the man's phone. The old man answered a few questions and hung up.
工作人员上门一看，那位老人已经去世了。
The clerk came to see that the old man had passed away.
转 机曾有一个居民拿着一份文件来找杨茜，上面写着防疫期间龙王庙社区所配备的公车数量，4辆，用于病人转运、购买物资等，每辆都有车牌号。
Once a resident came to Yangxie with a document bearing the number of buses in the Longwangmiao community during the epidemic prevention period, 4 for patient transshipment, purchase of goods, etc., each with a license plate number.
杨茜愣住了，“我们一共就收到两辆车，一辆还是和隔壁社区共用的。
"Yang Ci was stunned." We received two cars, one of which was shared with the next community.
”她询问街道领导，对方也答不出个所以然来。
"she asked the street manager, who couldn't answer why.
在她印象中，那段时间，大家都在“打乱仗”。
At that time, she had the impression, everyone was "scrambling the war."
各种文件出了一个又一个，做了很多承诺，但基层落实起来困难重重。
One document after another, many commitments have been made, but implementation at the grass-roots level is difficult.
最突出的问题是“人床矛盾”。
The most prominent problem is the "human-bed contradiction."
据湖北省卫生健康委员会的通报，武汉从1月23日封城开始到2月9日提出“应收尽收”（对确诊患者集中收治，疑似患者、发热患者、密切接触者集中隔离观察），共有确诊患者16478人。
According to a report from the Hubei Provincial Health and Sanitation Commission, Wuhan collected 16,478 patients from January 23 to February 9, when patients were treated in a concentrated way, suspected patients, fever sufferers and close contacts.
而中国疾控中心后来的回溯性研究发现，仅1月21日-31日10天内，武汉就有26468人发病。
A later retrospective study by the China Centers for Disease Control and Prevention found 26,468 cases in Wuhan between January 21 and 31 alone.
那段时间，杨茜只有一个念头：要把病人送出去。
At that time, Yancey had only one thought: to send the patient out.
她恨不得随时做好准备，把病人往医院送，即使一时不能住院，“医院门口出了事也能马上得到抢救”。
She would have liked to be ready to take the patient to hospital, even if temporarily unable to do so, "hospital door things can be immediately rescued."
社区书记之间也不断交流打听着医院的消息。
Community secretaries also exchanged information about the hospital.
她所在的社区，有个80多岁的患者一直没有排到床位，她安排人陪着老人在医院门口守着，等了近8个小时，才有了留院观察的机会。
In her community, where a patient in her 80s never made it to the bed, she arranged for the elderly to be escorted to the hospital gate for nearly eight hours before being allowed to remain in the hospital.
在医院“留观”，只能坐在小板凳上输液，但她认为，“留观总比在家里等强，总有一线生机。
In the hospital "watch", can only sit on the stool infusion, but she thought, "better to watch than at home, there is always a glimmer of vitality.
”杨茜遇到最棘手的一位患者是位50多岁的男性，本身就患有红斑狼疮，再加上新冠肺炎。
One of the toughest cases encountered was a man in her 50s with lupus erythematosus and pneumonia.
“治红斑狼疮的医院不治新冠肺炎，治新冠肺炎的医院又不治红斑狼疮。
"The hospital that treats lupus erythematosus incurable new crown pneumonia, the hospital that treats new crown pneumonia again incurable lupus.
”那位患者肺炎属于轻症，红斑狼疮更严重些，当时想找医院先治疗红斑狼疮，可是非新冠肺炎定点医院知道他发热，就拒绝了，而由于是轻症患者，他又在定点医院排不上号，来来回回折腾了好几次。
The patient had pneumonia, more severe than lupus, and wanted to see a hospital to treat lupus, but the hospital refused to treat him because he was febrile, and because he was a mild case, he could not make it to the designated hospital and went back and forth several times.
后来，方舱医院建起来了，大量轻症患者从定点医院转入方舱医院，这位患者才住进了医院。
Later, the square cabin hospital was built, a large number of light patients from the designated hospital to the cabin hospital, the patient was admitted to the hospital.
在这些社区工作人员看来，转机出现在建立方舱医院之后。
In the view of these community workers, the turnaround came after the establishment of the cabin hospital.
在中央赴湖北指导组推动下，武汉将会展中心、体育场馆等改造为方舱医院，集中收治新冠肺炎轻症患者。
Under the impetus of the Central Steering Group to Hubei, Wuhan will transform the Convention and Exhibition Center, stadiums and other facilities into a square cabin hospital for treating patients with mild cases of Newcastle Pneumonia.
2月5日，第一家方舱医院启用。
On 5 February, the first cabin hospital was opened.
刘婷说，此后，社区的患者要么进了医院，要么进了方舱，要么去了隔离点，她工作中一个最明显的变化是，求助的电话少了。
Since then, says Liu Ting, patients in the community have either been admitted to the hospital, entered the cabin, or went to the quarantine, one of the most obvious changes in her work has been fewer calls.
从人们的语气里，她能明显感到情绪的变化。
There was a palpable change of mood in the tone of the people.
“一开始每天都有居民打电话来问，哪栋哪楼是不是消毒了呀，怎么没有闻到消毒水的味道？看到隔壁家贴了封条，又会打电话来问各种情况，他怎么还在家，我连窗户都不敢开怎么办呀……”李霞每天都会把最新的疫情通告发到社区居民群，群里就会“炸锅”，人们在猜测最新确诊的病例究竟出自哪户，有没有出过门，有没有和自己接触过……现在，微信群里这样的讨论少了。
"At the beginning of every day residents called to ask, which building is sterilized, how did not smell disinfectant? Seeing the next door affixed seal, will call to ask various circumstances, he is still at home, I do not dare to open the windows.
对社区工作人员来说，最大的难题变成了“保供”——保障社区居民的基本生活所需。
For community workers, the biggest challenge has become "surety," which guarantees the basic needs of community residents.
刘婷说，封城时，他们就针对社区里的独居老人和困难人群提供特殊照顾。
When the city was closed, Liu said, they gave special care to elderly people living alone and those in need in the community.
等到2月11日，武汉小区全面封闭，团购的巨大需求涌到了社区。
By February 11, Wuhan district, the total closure of the group purchase of huge demand poured into the community.
政府安排了超市与周边社区结对。
The government paired the supermarket with the surrounding community.
每天统计、采购、分发是巨大的工作量，社区前一天统计好居民的需求，第二天一早就去超市打包，然后再一户一户分发。
Statistics, purchases and distribution are a huge workload. Communities count their needs the day before and go to the supermarket the next morning to pack them up and distribute them one by one.
2月18日，湖北省武汉市青扬十街社区，工作人员分拣好的粮食蔬菜“整装待发”，即将送往各居民家中。
Feb. 18, Wuhan City, Hubei Province, Qingyang 10 Street community, staff sorted out the grain vegetables "ready to go", will be sent to the families.
中青报·中青网见习记者鲁冲/摄一些居民会主动帮忙做事。
Some residents will take the initiative to help with their work.
李霞说，大部分居民都很好相处，有的会在居民微信群里帮忙张罗，知道是特殊时期，谁家若是需要点什么，大家都会相互匀点。
'Most of the residents get along quite well, 'Ms. Li says.' Some of them help out in the micro-groups, knowing it's a special time.
在几乎每一个小区，封闭之后，一种消费需求尤其迫切——买药。
In almost every neighborhood, after the closure, there is a particular need for consumption - to buy drugs.
为了给一些病人买药，社区工作人员凌晨4点就去定点零售药店排队取号。
To buy medicine for some patients, community workers line up at designated retail pharmacies at 4 a.m.
“像我们这药最全的汉口大药房，有几天只放30个号，我们凌晨4点去的时候，就只能排到15号。
"Hankou Pharmacy, which has the largest number of tablets like ours, only has 30 in a few days. When we get there at 4 am, we can only get to the 15th.
”杨茜说，大家都知道药的重要性，不敢耽搁，有的工作人员为了买药甚至在药店门口过夜，买到一批就送回去一批。
"Everyone knows the importance of medicines, and people don't dare to delay them," Yang said.
龙王庙社区负责帮居民买药的是社区副主任白玉姣，时间长了被大家称为“白医生”。
Longwangmiao community is responsible for helping residents to buy medicine is the community deputy director Bai Yu Jiao, time has been known as "white doctor."
“白医生”原来也不懂药，买多了就成了半个行家。
"Doctor White" also did not know the original medicine, to buy more became half an expert.
杨茜说：“什么病需要什么药，需要多少剂量，哪种牌子的药更好，白医生都一清二楚，大家经常打趣：白医生，今天问诊了吗？”随着疫情形势的转好，居民的需求也在不断多样化、个性化，团购的菜要更便宜、更新鲜、更多品种……社区书记们知道，这些多元需求的增加，表明武汉正在从“非常”走向“正常”。
"What kind of medicine is needed, how much dose is needed and what brand of medicine is better," Yang said. "Doctor Bai, have you consulted a doctor today?" As the epidemic situation improved, the needs of the residents became more diversified and individualized, and community secretaries knew that the increased demand was moving from "extraordinary" to "normal.
中国青年报·中国青年网出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
China Youth Daily & amp; China Youth Net & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉社区经历了什么。
Wuhan community has experienced what.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉社区经历了什么";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "社区成了居民外出就医的必经环节，也成了人们情绪直接的宣泄口。
var msg _ desc = & quot; The community has been a necessary part of residents' visits and a direct outlet for their emotions.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
