120急救车，生死时速里的患与医。
First aid car, life-or-death problems and doctors.
熊曼谕。
The oracle.
云林街十七号                      。
17 Yunlin Street.
云林街十七号。
17 Yunlin Street.
这场战役 我们与你们同在。
We are with you in this battle.
二月的武汉城内，感染肺炎的患者与家属四处寻找床位。
Pneumonia sufferers and their families look for beds in Wuhan City in February.
亲朋好友们在家为他们祈祷，同时精神高度警惕着病毒。
Friends and relatives pray for them at home, while being alert for the virus.
他们在生死时速的这一头。
They're at the end of the speed line.
另一头，是坐在120救护车里，24小时轮班，在武汉空荡的大街上飞奔的救护车医生们。
At the other end are ambulance doctors on a 24-hour shift in a 120-ambulance ride through Wuhan's empty streets.
文| 熊曼谕二月以来，武汉疫情进入爆发期。
Since February, Wuhan has entered an outbreak.
小石是一位在武汉开车的出租车司机，除了女儿之外，他全家都出现了新冠病毒的疑似症状。
Xiao Shi is a taxi driver driving in Wuhan, in addition to his daughter, his family have developed suspected symptoms of the new crown virus.
小石的妈妈病情发展最快，肺部感染尤为严重，不仅喘得厉害，还一度高烧到39度。
Shi's mother was the fastest-growing case, with particularly severe lung infections, including wheezing and a fever of up to 39 degrees.
因为封城限行，小石不能再开出租车，其他救助车辆又要排很久的队，小石最开始就骑自行车驮着病重的妈妈去医院看病。
Because the closure of the city, small stones can no longer drive a taxi, other rescue vehicles have to wait for a long queue, small stones began riding bicycles carrying a seriously ill mother to the hospital.
但随着母亲的情况急转直下，“妈妈命都要没了，这时候也管不了车可不可以上路了。
But as her mother's condition turned to a tailspin, "Mom's life is gone, and now she can't stop the car from going."
”小石就只好强行开着自己的出租车，带着母亲在各大医院间奔波找床位。
"So he forced himself to drive his taxi and took his mother to and fro among the major hospitals looking for beds.
患者的血检报告和CT报告另一面，公共救助用车供不应求。
On the other side of the patient's blood test report and CT report, public aid vehicles are in short supply.
120急救中心的总台呼叫随着疫情变化暴增。
The total station call at the Emergency Centre has surged as the epidemic has changed.
据急救中心的小项医生说，这几天总台接到的电话是平日的五倍之多，日均近1万个急救电话，总台调度指挥由原来的6人增加到15人， 24小时轮班调配救护分站。
According to a small emergency center doctor, these days the main station received five times as many calls as usual, with an average of nearly 10,000 first-aid calls a day, and the chief dispatcher was increased from 6 to 15, with 24-hour shifts.
由于人员调度紧张，为了尽可能多出几趟车，救护车上医护人员由原来的5名调整为3名，两名担架员和一名医生或护士。
Owing to staffing constraints, in order to accommodate as many trips as possible, the number of ambulance staff was changed from five to three, two stretchers and one doctor or nurse.
而接诊的医生也在往常每24小时轮班后的三个休息日里，又加入了一个白班。
The attending physician adds a day shift during the three rest days following the usual 24-hour shift.
“我们现在的工作时长是挺长，但没办法，救人要紧。
"We're working long hours now, but we can't do anything to save people.
几乎每天都是接送十趟车往上走。
Ten trains go up almost every day.
”小项医生说道。
"said the doctor.
如果按2小时一趟算，24小时，他们几乎是不间断的工作，马不停蹄的一趟接着一趟。
On a two-hour basis, they work almost continuously, 24 hours a day, one after another.
与平时出车最大的不同是，每接一趟病人，车辆与医护人员都要回站消毒一个半小时左右。
The biggest difference with the usual travel is that every time a patient, vehicles and medical staff have to return to the station to disinfect about an hour and a half.
小项医生的朋友圈医护人员需要更换隔离衣，消毒防护服。
Small doctor's circle of friends medical personnel need to change the isolation clothing, disinfect the protective clothing.
由于医疗资源紧张，小项医生说：“消毒衣没办法每趟都得换，但里面的防护服都舍不得丢，穿到实在不能再穿才换。
"Because of the shortage of medical resources, he said:" There is no way to disinfect clothes every time, but the inside of the protective clothing are reluctant to lose, wear can no longer wear before changing.
”他们面对生死时速，患者家属的绝望求助，还要时刻保持清醒，认真消毒防止感染。
They face life-or-death speeds and desperate appeals from family members to stay awake and disinfect themselves carefully to prevent infection.
救护车医生们的防护措施“其实我们也挺无奈的。
Ambulance doctors' protective measures "In fact, we are quite helpless.
” 让小项医生感到为难的是，就目前状况而言，救护车把病人送到了医院，除了严重休克的病人，他们只能把患者放在医院门口，剩下的无法保证。
To Dr. Xiaoji's embarrassment, ambulances rushed patients to hospitals in their current condition and, with the exception of patients suffering from severe shock, they had to leave the patients in front of the hospital with no guarantee of the rest.
“你等会用120的救护车把我推进去好吗，这样他们可能会收我的。
"You'll push me in with a 120-car ambulance later, so they'll probably take me.
”这样的求助，救护车上的医生几乎每天都能听到，但医院没有床位就是没有，他们也帮不上忙。
Doctors in ambulances can hear such calls almost every day, but hospitals don't have beds and they can't help.
小项医生回忆起一次凌晨四点的接诊经历。
Doctor Xiaoji recalls a 4: 00 a. m. admission experience.
“我记得那天晚上四点半的时候，我接到一个任务，是一个女患者。
"I remember that night at 4: 30, I had a mission, a woman patient.
我上车和她打电话沟通了一会，她说，‘我这会儿就是想上医院，我之前在医院做了检查，是高度疑似。
I got on the bus and talked to her on the phone for a while, and she said, 'I just want to go to the hospital right now.
’当时我就在电话里劝她，我们现在给你送到医院去也没有什么作用，你想去住院，肯定住不进去，每个医院都是满的。
I told her over the phone that it wouldnt help if we took you to the hospital right now. You want to go to the hospital, you cant go in, every hospital is full.
这会我们把你送过去，你等会连回家的车都没有。
We'll get you there. You won't even have a car to go home.
本来市区的车辆就禁行，去哪里找车回家呢？”医生当然理解每一个呼救患者内心的焦虑与绝望，但现实情况下，他们也无能为力，当医生面对病人说出让病人回家待着的话，内心的压力也可想而知。
The doctors certainly understood the anxiety and hopelessness of every patient who cried out for help, but in reality, there was nothing they could do about it, and when a doctor told a patient to stay home, the pressure inside was palpable.
“每一个打来电话的病人，无论重病轻患，其实心态都挺绝望的，我们只有尽可能的开导。
"Every patient who calls, no matter how seriously ill or sick, is desperate, and we can only enlighten as much as we can.
”和武汉的医疗资源一样紧张的，是小石妈妈的病情。
"Wuhan and the medical resources of the same tension is small stone mother's illness.
最初小石打来电话向我求助时，嗓子已经哑了。
At first, when Little Rock called me for help, she lost her voice.
1月29日那天，小石妈妈高烧到39.2，白细胞降到2.54。
On Jan. 29, Mama Stone had a high fever of 39.2 and her white blood cells dropped to 2.54.
武汉中心医院后湖院区的医生希望小石赶紧想办法帮妈妈住进医院。
Wuhan central hospital back lake hospital district doctors hope Xiao Shi hastens to help her mother live in hospital.
但是医生却帮不上忙，后湖院区的床位已经满了，“我这里比你妈妈严重的病人多了，有烧到40多度的，血氧降到50%的”。
But the doctors couldn't help, and the backlake courtyard was already full of beds. "I have more patients here than your mother, burning to more than 40 degrees, blood oxygen to 50%."
从武汉中心医院后湖院区离开后，听闻说沌口的协和西院有床位，小石就把妈妈带去协和西院，这时候他妈妈已经连下车都困难了。
After leaving the backlake courtyard of Wuhan Central Hospital, I heard that Concorde's Western courtyard was full of beds in illegible mouth.
进去后，小石就问护士还有没有床位。
When he entered the room, he asked the nurse if he had any beds.
护士答复说：“我们现在连氧气都没有，更不用指望有床了。
"The nurse replied," We don't have oxygen right now, let alone a bed.
”病患家属发来的信息“上天无路，入地无门。
The message from the patient's family was "No way out.
”一家人急到快失去信心。
The family was anxious to lose heart.
在《财经》的《统计数字之外：他们死于‘普通肺炎’？》一文里写到，“以武汉的一家定点医院为例，120个发热病人，大约平均会有80人被诊断为肺部感染，其中又只有5人能够“幸运”的被收治住院，剩下的人全都被建议回家自行隔离。
"In addition to Caijing's" Statistics: They Died of Common Pneumonia?, "" In Wuhan, for example, an average of 80 people with fever will be diagnosed with a lung infection, and only five of them will be admitted to hospital "lucky" and the rest will be advised to go home and isolate themselves
”如果不是帮着小石妈妈四处求床位，我可能会怀疑这个数字。
I might have doubted that figure if I hadn't helped her around begging for a bed.
但当我打着各大医院的电话、填着各式各样的网络表格，求助各大V、各报社记者时；当我打开微博的“肺炎患者求助”超级话题，发布求床位的救助信息，再顺手翻看两眼，发现里面堆砌起雪片般的求助信息时。
But when I called major hospitals, filled out various online forms and asked for help from newspaper reporters, when I turned on the Weibo "Pneumonia Helper" super-topic, posted bed-seeking information, flipped through my eyes and found a snowflake of help inside.
我看到了从120，到80，再到5，艰难而又“幸运”的每一步。
I saw every step from 120 to 80 and then to 5, hard and lucky.
2月2日，小石找社区，社区让他再去区卫计委求助。
On February 2, Xiao Shi looked for the community, which asked him to go to District Health and Planning Commission for help.
得到的反馈都是一样，“我们会尽力想办法”。
The feedback was the same: "We'll do our best."
当天，小石拖上氧气瓶，拿着行李，带着母亲和父亲坐在区卫计委的门口。
On the same day, the small stone oxygen cylinder, carrying luggage, with his mother and father sitting at the gate of the District Planning Commission.
以这样的方式，他为母亲求来了一张四医院古田院区急诊观察室的临时床位。
In this way, he asked his mother for a temporary bed in the emergency room at the Old Field Hospital of the four hospitals.
走进医院的急诊室，躺在旁边的两个黄色裹尸袋让小石触目惊心。
Entering the hospital's emergency room, the two yellow shroud bags lying next to it startled the pebbles.
小石的妈妈被安排在观察室13床的凳子上。
The little stone's mother was placed on a 13-bed stool in the observation room.
“其实，根本就是写着13号的一个空位置，没有床，我估计那个位置可能就是刚才那两具的其中之一吧。
"It's actually an empty seat on Number 13. There's no bed. I guess that's one of those two.
”观察室里大概有30个位置，小石说，“我为什么不说30个床位呢，因为有好几个都是没有床的，就像我妈一样坐在那个有编号的位置上。
"There were about 30 places in the observation room," she said. "Why don't I say 30 beds, because several of them have no beds, and sit on numbered ones like my mother.
”即便是这样条件的一个床位，也是一床难求。
"Even a bed in such conditions is difficult to get.
“白天好多人在门诊哭闹。
"Lots of people cry in the daytime.
我们走的时候，门口另一个床的老爷子在看手机，下一秒浑身抽搐就这么没了，算上这个，那个不到30个位置的观察室，第二天又走了2个。
As we walked away, the man in the other bed at the door was looking at his cell phone and the next second he was twitching, and with that, the observation room in less than 30 locations walked two more times the next day.
在我看来医院已经是炼狱了。
It seems to me that the hospital is purgatory.
”2月4日夜里1点，小石为母亲在湖北省第三人民医院找到了床位。
On February 4 at 1 p.m., Xiao Shi found a bed for her mother at the Third People's Hospital in Hubei Province.
母亲住进医院后，小石终于能回家吃口饭了。
After her mother was admitted to the hospital, Stone was finally able to go home for a bite to eat.
妻子做的晚饭，一式三份。
The wife made dinner in triplicate.
一份送给还在医院打针的父亲，一份自己吃，还有一份递给房间的小女儿。
One was given to his father, who was still receiving an injection in the hospital, one to himself, and one to the little girl in the room.
一家人除了11岁的女儿，已经全部感染。
All but one of the family's 11-year-old daughters are infected.
为了防止女儿被感染，只能把她关在房间里，每天按点送饭进去。
To prevent her from getting infected, she was confined to her room, where she was ordered to go in every day.
但小石说，这一次她很乖、很懂事。
But Xiao Shi said that this time she was very good, very sensible.
2020年，是小项从事救护车医生的第十年。
In 2020, it was the tenth year of an ambulance doctor.
3号，我看到她发了一条朋友圈，“火神山集结转运，武汉急救人。
No.3, I saw her send out a circle of friends, "Mars build-up transshipment, Wuhan first aid.
”刚想问声情况，她告诉我，晚点聊，这会儿要出车了。
"Just as she was about to ask, she told me to talk later, and it was time to get out.
不是所有人都有充当英雄的勇气，所以我由衷地敬佩与感谢他们。
Not everyone has the courage to be heroes, so I sincerely admire and thank them.
小项医生的朋友圈生死关头，他们永远冲在第一线。
Dr. Xiang's circle of friends is at stake and they are always on the front line.
（文中“小石”和“小项”均为化名）「云林街十七号」推出征集活动无论你是医护人员、患者，还是普通人都可以点击“阅读原文”和我们联系「我们建了一个读者群欢迎关心武汉疫情和“云林街十七号”的各位扫码进群」点击“阅读原文”，报名参与“故事征集”。
17 Yunlin Street Call for Proposals Whether you are a health care worker, patient or ordinary person, you can contact us by clicking on "Read the Text." "We have established a readership and welcome all those who care about the situation in Wuhan and Seventeen Yunlin Street."
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
120急救车，生死时速里的患与医。
First aid car, life-or-death problems and doctors.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "文学";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "云林街十七号";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; 17 Yunlin Street;;
var msg_title = "120急救车，生死时速里的患与医";。
var msg _ title = & quot; 120 ambulance, at-speed problems and with & quot;;;
var msg_desc = "与死神作战。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; fought against death.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="云林街十七号";。
var title = & quot; 17 Yunlin Street; & quot;
