疫中人丨一个武汉人的「隔离33天」。
"Isolation for 33 days" of an infected person into Wuhan.
方毅 亚泽 千林。
Fangyi Yaziqian Lin.
访他者                      。
Interviews with others.
访他者。
Interviews with others.
西安外国语大学新闻与传播硕士（MJC）专业实践交流平台。
Xian Foreign Languages University, MJC (MJC) professional practice exchange platform.
真实记录外国人在陕西、陕西人在国外的生活状态。
Real records of foreigners in Shaanxi, Shaanxi people living in foreign countries.
以生动鲜活的故事洞察全球化背景下自我与他者的文化区隔、碰撞与交流。
With vivid story insight into the background of globalization and self and other cultural isolation, collision and exchange.
他者百态，访他者之态。
The attitude of others, the attitude of others.
。
.
1月23日凌晨，除夕前夜，武汉宣布交通封城。
On the eve of New Year's Eve, Wuhan announced the closure of the city on January 23.
如果没有这场疫情，丹丹现在已经到了河南，和事先从当阳赶来的姐姐在一起。
Had it not been for the outbreak, Dandan would have been in Henan with her sister, who had come from Dangyang in advance.
这是她计划已久的旅行。
It was her long-planned trip.
因为工作忙，假期少，按照惯例，丹丹过去几年都选择在春节期间出去旅游。
Because of his busy schedule and lack of holidays, Dandan has traditionally taken a trip during the Spring Festival in the past few years.
20号那天，丹丹收到了前同事，一位在协和医院上班的护士发来的消息，告诉她，此次疫情严重，出去旅游有风险。
On the 20th, Dandan received a message from a former colleague, a nurse working at Concorde Hospital, telling her that traveling was dangerous because of the severity of the outbreak.
再三考虑后，她和姐姐达成了一致，按下了机票和酒店订单上的「立即取消」。
On second thought, she and her sister agreed to press the "immediate cancellation" on the ticket and hotel order.
2月25号，丹丹接受了我们的线上采访，这是她从1月23号以来，在家隔离的第33天。
On Feb. 25, Dandan gave our online interview, the 33rd day of her home confinement since Jan. 23.
前 夜2020年1月21号，武汉市政府宣布封城的前两天，丹丹依旧像往常一样去公司上班。
On January 21, 2020, two days before Wuhan city government announced its closure, Dandan went to work as usual.
和上班一样平常的，还有武汉地铁拥挤的早高峰。
Just as normal as going to work, there are the early rush hours of the Wuhan subway.
「乘客依旧很多，只有一小部分人戴上了口罩。
"Passengers are still very high and only a small proportion of them wear masks.
因为网上有消息说有疫情，但是并没有官宣，所以大多数人和我一样，也就没放在心上。
Because there is news on the Internet that there is an epidemic, but there is no official announcement, so most people like me, also ignored.
」短短两天的时间，1月23号，也就是农历大年二十九，武汉在这一天正式宣布封城。
Wuhan officially declared the city closed on January 23, the 29th day of the Lunar New Year, in just two days.
昔日热闹繁华的武汉步行街（楚河汉街)图源@林晨同学Hearing丹丹每年都会趁着年假出去玩，今年也不例外。
Wuhan Pedestrian Street (Chu He Han Street) Tuyuan @ Linchen classmate Hearing Dandan takes advantage of his annual vacation every year, and this year is no exception.
为了这次河南之行，她和姐姐早早就筹备好了。
She and her sister were well prepared for the trip to Henan.
买票、订酒店、做攻略，一切准备工作都已就绪。
Tickets, hotel bookings, attack tactics, everything is ready.
如果不是这场疫情，丹丹会和事先从当阳赶来的姐姐会合，再一同坐车前往河南。
Had it not been for the outbreak, Dandan would have joined her sister, who had arrived from Dangyang, and taken a bus to Henan.
出发前夕，在协和医院工作的朋友告诉她，这次的疫情好像「有点严重」，但这在那时并没有让她打消出行的想法。
On the eve of her departure, friends working at Concorde Hospital told her that the outbreak seemed "a bit serious," but that did not discourage her from travelling at the time.
「封城的前两三天，我朋友再次发消息告诉我，让我别出去玩了，她也已经把原本买好要去庐山的票都退了，说这次情况『特别严重』，出去会有『很大风险』。
"Two or three days before the city was closed, my friend told me again not to go out to Lushan. She had already returned all the tickets she had bought to Lushan.
」丹丹这才有些担心，把情况告诉姐姐后，两人最终决定取消行程，今年的旅行也就此作罢。
"Dandan was worried. After telling his sister what had happened, they finally decided to cancel their trip, and the trip this year was over.
「新闻上刚开始通报华南海鲜市场出现疫情的时候，同事告诉我准备去药店买一些口罩备着，问我要不要，我还笑着说『钢铁女侠是不需要口罩的』」。
"Just as the news started to tell me about an outbreak in the South China seafood market, my colleague told me that I was going to the pharmacy to buy some masks and asked me if I wanted them.
当这一切正渐渐被来势汹汹的疫情所淹没，意识到疫情的严重性之后，丹丹逐渐变得谨慎。
As it all began to subside under the onslaught of an epidemic, Dandan grew cautious after realizing the severity of the outbreak.
「一直到封城前我都没戴过口罩。
"I didn't wear a mask until after the siege.
每天早上去单位值班的时候，地铁、公交上挤满了人，戴口罩的并不多，包括我，街上也只有一部分人戴了。
When I go to work every morning, the subway and buses are crowded with people. Not many people wear masks, including me, and only a few people in the street wear them.
不过万幸没有被感染。
But luckily it didn't get infected.
对于疫情的重视程度这一块，我是属于非常迟钝的那一类人。
I belong to the very dull category of people who attach great importance to the epidemic.
」后来和家里人说起这些经历的时候，丹丹觉得自己真的太幸运了。
"Later, when he told his family about all this, Dandan thought he was really lucky.
超市入口排队测体温的顾客图源@林晨同学Hearing「作为一个武汉本地人，感觉武汉在防疫措施上确实是比其他地区的行动要晚很多。
"As a native of Wuhan, it feels like Wuhan is indeed much later than other regions in terms of epidemic prevention measures.
」丹丹的姐姐所在的当阳是宜昌下辖的一个县级市，据她说，「那里的防疫措施行动要比武汉还早上三四天」，加上后来在网上看见河南面对疫情采取处理措施的情况，丹丹还是觉得，面对疫情，相较之下武汉的重视程度差了许多。
"Dandan's sister, a county-level city under Yichang, said the epidemic prevention measures there were three or four days earlier than those in Wuhan," and seeing on the Internet how Henan was dealing with the epidemic, Dandan felt that Wuhan was less important than Wuhan in the face of the epidemic.
隔 离封城之后，武汉各个地方都限制人员出入，包括丹丹家所在的小区。
After leaving the city, Wuhan is restricted to all parts of the people, including the Dandan family in the small area.
因为事先没有准备，突如其来的限制措施打乱了丹丹一家的生活节奏。
Unprepared, the sudden restrictions disrupted the pace of life of the Dandans.
「小区从什么时候开始封禁我也记不太清楚了，大概一开始的时候是可以进出的，因为我们家买东西一次会买一星期的量，所以家里人也不怎么出去。
"I don't remember exactly when the neighborhood began to be banned. It was probably accessible at the beginning, because we buy things for a week at a time, so the family did not go out very much.
后来小区发了一张表格，上面写着允许每户三天派出去一个人采购生活用品，我也就赶紧去领了表，出门又买了一次需要的东西。
Later, the community issued a form, which said that each family is allowed to send a person three days to purchase supplies, I quickly went to get a watch, go out to buy a need of things.
」那次的采购让丹丹心惊胆战。
"That purchase scared Danny.
「第一次去小区对面中百购物的时候，前面排的队很长，大家都比较自觉，人与人之间的距离也隔得比较远。
"The first time I went shopping across the street, there was a long queue in front of us. We were all aware of it and the distance between people was quite long.
」超市的工作人员不停地出来喊要保持安全距离，进超市之前也会先测体温。
Supermarket staff kept shouting for a safe distance and taking a temperature test before entering the supermarket.
但在选购完东西排队称重的时候，人们还是挤在了一起。
But after shopping in line to weigh, people are still crowded together.
「那个场景形容起来就是，我的脸贴在别人的后背，别人的脸又贴到我的后背，整个队伍就像一条贪吃蛇。
"It was a scene where my face was on someone's back and someone else's face was on my back, and the line was like a greedy snake.
我很害怕。
I'm scared.
」武昌区市民在超市采购物资图源@林晨同学Hearing从那时起，曾经当过护士的丹丹开始警觉到，日常生活已经需要调整到「一级戒备状态」了。
"Since then, Dandan, a former nurse, has become alert to the need to adjust her daily life to" Grade One alert. "
「到家之后，我会把所有的东西都会放在门口消毒，最后再给自己身上喷一遍酒精，包括鞋底，鞋子是坚决不会放进家里的，这让我有一种回到以前进手术室的感觉，对所有物品的消毒都要达到最严格的标准。
"When I get home, I disinfect everything at the door and finally spray myself with alcohol, including the soles of my shoes, which I firmly don't put into my home, which gives me the feeling of going back to the operating room where everything is sterilized to the strictest standards.
」隔离刚开始那阵子，偌大的武汉买不到一瓶酒精，更别说口罩。
"Not long after the isolation began, the huge Wuhan could not buy a bottle of alcohol, let alone a mask.
「有一次委托社区买酒精，质量堪忧。
"On one occasion, the community was commissioned to buy alcohol of poor quality.
一瓶500毫升的酒精25块钱，差不多有两瓶矿泉水那么多，出乎意料地便宜，可我打开的时候闻到的分明是一股很重的高度白酒的味道……很无奈，却也只能将就着用。
A 500ml bottle of alcohol cost 25 yuan, almost two bottles of mineral water, unexpectedly cheap, but I opened the smell of a very heavy liquor... very helpless, but can only be used.
」尽管已经过去一个月，这些防疫必需品依然紧缺。
Despite the passage of a month, these essentials remain in short supply.
丹丹告诉我们，现在她的家里只剩六个口罩了，所以每次都得节约着用，不会为了特地去买一样东西而戴个口罩出门，必须要列好购物清单，出一次门都会一次性把需要的东西买完，尽量把一个口罩的作用发挥到最大。
Dandan told us that she now had only six masks left in her house, so she had to save money every time, didn't wear a mask to buy something special, had to make a shopping list, bought everything she needed at one time, and tried to maximize the benefits of a mask.
超市里用塑料袋套头，满头大汗的大妈图源@林晨同学Hearing能出去的机会不多，可家里总是要生活的，一些吃的东西还是很缺，她跟妈妈尝试通过各种渠道购买物资。
The supermarket with plastic bags head, sweaty aunt map source @ Lin Chen classmate Hearing can not go out many opportunities, but the family always have to live, some food is still very short, she and her mother try to buy materials through various channels.
因为配送名额稀少，刚开始在盒马生鲜上抢了三四次都没抢到。
Because of the scarcity of distribution places, just started in the box horse fresh three or four times did not seize.
「疯狂程度堪比双十一。
"Crazy as eleven.
」丹丹笑着说。
"said Dandan, smiling.
「后来业主群里有人分享了抢购的方法，按照他的方式做了之后才买到了。
"Later, someone in the group of owners shared the method of snapping up and did it his way before buying it.
那次买了差不多八百块钱的东西，起码可以吃到三月中旬了。
I bought almost 800 dollars that time, at least until the middle of March.
」下好单了，等待骑手送货来的时间也很煎熬，晚点是常有的事。
"Good order, waiting for the rider to deliver the goods to the time is also very torment, delayed is often the case.
「因为是两批订单，中途回家消毒的话又很麻烦，还得再重新换一个口罩，所以就一直在楼底下等，那天足足等了快四个小时才拿到东西。
"As it was two orders and it was troublesome to disinfect my family halfway home, I had to replace another mask, so I waited under the stairs for almost four hours to get my things.
」志愿者们在小区外发放蔬菜图源网络家里的菜只够吃一天了。
Volunteers handed out vegetable maps outside their neighborhoods. The network had just enough to eat for a day.
「社区里面也有团购买青菜什么的，但是有人在业主群里吐槽说买的菜送回来都是烂的，而且照片看起来确实不尽人意。
"There are groups in the community that buy vegetables and things like that, but people in the owners' slots say the food is rotten and the pictures really don't look good.
后来实在没办法，还是托志愿者去买了一些东西。
Afterwards, there was no way, or entrust volunteers to buy some things.
差不多两百块钱的蔬菜，缺斤少两不说，本来两斤的东西我回家一称只有一斤多一点；价格还比平时贵了一倍不止。
There were nearly two hundred dollars worth of vegetables, not to mention a few pounds. I returned home with a little more than a catty, and the price was more than double the usual price.
有什么法子呢？特殊时期，有得吃就不错了。
What can be done? In special times, it's good to have something to eat.
」丹丹说完，无奈地叹了口气。
"Dan finished, sighing helplessly.
「不光是买不到菜，就算运气好抢到了，自己出去取也很不方便。
"Not only can not buy food, even if good luck to grab, it is very inconvenient to go out to pick it up.
」丹丹家所在小区里有通行证的志愿者会帮业主们去提菜，但也不会送到家门口，而是放在一个固定的地方。
Volunteers with passes in the Dandan family's neighborhood would carry food to the owners, but not to their homes, but in a fixed place.
小区的自提点在马路对面，走过去需要十分钟左右的时间，菜价比平时贵了一倍多，每笔订单还要额外付30块钱的费用给代购。
The plot's self-mention point in the road across the road, it takes about 10 minutes to walk, the price of vegetables more than double the usual price, each order has to pay an extra 30 dollars to buy.
疫情期间还在送餐的外卖小哥图源@林晨同学Hearing丹丹很喜欢吃鱼，那一阵在家里每天都念叨着要吃鱼。
Little brother Tuyuan, who was also delivering meals during the outbreak, enjoyed eating fish. He was at home reading fish every day.
但疫情时期，这已然是一种奢望。
But in an epidemic, that is already a luxury.
「有一次晚上做梦竟然都梦见和同事一起捉鱼吃，现在想起来自己都觉得不可思议。
"One night I dreamt of catching fish with my colleagues, and now I think of it as incredible.
」心 火1月22号，丹丹发了一条朋友圈，她说，「想去报名志愿者」，配图是她当年考取的护士执业证书。
Heart Fire January 22, Dandan sent a circle of friends, she said, "would like to sign up for the volunteer," with the map of her nurses practice certificate.
丹丹的朋友圈照片武汉疫情爆发最严重的时候，看着新闻媒体上每天滚动更新的头条，丹丹回想起了五年前在医院大小科室间辗转忙碌的日子。
Dandan's circle of friends When the Wuhan outbreak hit its peak, Dandan looked at the headlines, rolling daily in the news media, recalling his busy days in hospital rooms and departments five years ago.
当时的她还是武汉某医院一名普通的护士。
At that time, she was a common nurse in a hospital in Wuhan.
虽然已离职多年，但她清楚地知道，这个时候医护资源有多么紧缺。
Though she has been out of office for years, she knows full well how scarce health care resources can be at this time.
于是，去做志愿者的念头就这样萌发了。
So the idea of being a volunteer began.
「我联系了在医院的好朋友，给她说了想去做志愿者的想法。
"I contacted my best friend in the hospital and told her I wanted to volunteer.
她告诉我当时有一个去红十字会当志愿者的机会，主要负责的工作就是接电话，联系捐赠物资之类的事情。
She told me that she had an opportunity to volunteer for the Red Cross and that her main responsibility was to answer the phone and get in touch with donations of goods and things like that.
」但是因为红十字会离家比较远，加上那段时间交通停运，天气变化莫测，自己也没有私家车，两地来回通勤是一个大问题，这成为了她当时最大的顾虑。
"But commuting from one place to another was a big problem because of the distance to the Red Cross, the disruption of traffic during that time, the vagaries of the weather and the absence of her own private car.
丹丹打算征求妈妈的意见。
Dandan was going to ask his mother for advice.
「刚开始她很支持，还问我需要老年人吗？她也想去。
"At first she was supportive and asked me if I needed older people. She wanted to go, too.
我心里暗暗高兴，觉得妈妈很理解我。
I was secretly happy that my mother understood me.
」后来，当妈妈从电视新闻里了解到疫情越来越严重，尤其是看到那些生离死别的场景……到最后，丹丹把招募通知拿给妈妈看的时候，她的态度发生了180度的变化，「说什么去了之后肯定要很长时间，不是一天两天，而且女孩子去也会很累之类的话。
"Later, when Mom learned from the television news that the epidemic was getting worse, especially when she saw scenes of separation... When Dandan finally showed her the job offer, she had a 180-degree change in attitude.
」经不起妈妈的旁敲侧击，想到自己走了之后，家里只剩下她一个人，如果自己出了事，那她怎么办？再加上公司的事也渐渐多了起来，丹丹最终还是放弃了去做志愿者的机会。
"Unable to withstand her mother's backbiting, she was the only one left in the family after her death, and if something happened to her, what would she do, and as the company grew larger, Danny finally gave up the chance to volunteer.
帮不上忙，但每天看着新闻报道中新增病例的数字蹭蹭往上涨的时候，她也很关心以前医院同事的近况。
She can't help, but she is concerned about the health of her former hospital colleagues as she rubs up the number of new cases in the news each day.
她们虽然不在一线，但日益严峻的疫情还是给她们的工作增添很多困难。
Although they are not on the frontline, the increasing severity of the epidemic adds to the difficulties they face in their work.
「刚开始交通封禁的时候，他们也没有办通行证之类的东西，就只能每天住附近的酒店或者和租房的同事住在一起。
"At the beginning of the traffic ban, they didn't have permits or anything like that, so they had to stay in a nearby hotel or with a rental colleague every day.
上班需要穿防护服，但工作的时候几乎不能喝水，因为穿脱一次需要花费很长时间，也会有让细菌进去的风险。
You need to wear protective clothing to work, but you can hardly drink water when you work, because it takes a long time to wear it off, and there is a risk of bacteria getting in.
」武汉大学中南医院 图源@林晨同学Hearing丹丹说，身边一个很好的朋友怀疑感染了病毒，就去做了核酸测验，虽然结果是好的，但是之后还需要二次复查才能确认。
"A good friend of mine, suspected of contracting the virus, took a nucleic acid test and although the results were good, a second review was needed to confirm it," said Hearing Dandan, a student at Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital.
朋友的妈妈为了求得好结果，甚至拿着孩子的生辰八字去求大仙，算是求一种心灵的寄托。
Friends mother in order to obtain good results, even with the child's birth, go to the immortal, is to seek a kind of spiritual sustenance.
「其实他说这句话的时候，我觉得是挺幽默的。
"I thought it was funny when he said that.
人在无助到极点的时候，可能会觉得只有上天才能保佑自己吧。
People in the extreme helpless, may feel that only God can bless themselves.
」后 记据武汉3月10日下午3点半发来的最新消息，最后一批49名患者从洪山体育馆走出，运行了35天的武汉市首个方舱医院正式休舱。
According to the latest news from Wuhan on March 10 at 3: 30 pm, the last 49 patients walked out of Hongshan Stadium and were officially closed for 35 days at Wuhan's first cabin hospital.
至此，武汉14家方舱医院全部休舱。
So far, Wuhan 14 cabin hospitals are closed.
丹丹说，现在武汉已经可以预约口罩了，酒精也能买得到，生鲜物资的供应渠道多了起来，不再需要激烈地抢购了，三八节在淘宝下单的快递也陆续收到了。
Now Wuhan can book masks, alcohol can also be bought, raw materials supply channels have increased, there is no need to rush the purchase, 38 days in Taobao delivery orders have been received.
当然，她终于可以吃到她想吃的鱼了。
Of course, she was finally able to eat the fish she wanted.
春已至，武汉的樱花即将进入盛开期。
Spring has arrived, Wuhan cherry blossoms are about to enter a period of full bloom.
武大盛开的樱花图源网络待到樱花盛放时，我们再相会。
Wuda blooming cherry blossom chart source network until the cherry blossoms bloom, we meet again.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫中人丨一个武汉人的「隔离33天」。
"Isolation for 33 days" of an infected person into Wuhan.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "访他者";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; interviewed by & quot;
var msg_title = "疫中人丨一个武汉人的「隔离33天」";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "「封城的前两三天，我朋友再次发消息告诉我，让我别出去玩了，说这次情况『特别严重』，出去会有『很大风险』。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "Two or three days after the cordon, my friend told me again not to go out, saying that the situation was' particularly serious' and that it was' very risky 'to go out.
」";。
";;
var title ="访他者";。
var title = & quot; & quot; interviewed by & quot;
