意大利疫情日记|恐惧与希望并存。
Italy's epidemic diary & # 124; & # 45; Fear and hope coexist.
张春玲 黄策。
Huang Chunling.
访他者                      。
Interviews with others.
访他者。
Interviews with others.
西安外国语大学新闻与传播硕士（MJC）专业实践交流平台。
Xian Foreign Languages University, MJC (MJC) professional practice exchange platform.
真实记录外国人在陕西、陕西人在国外的生活状态。
Real records of foreigners in Shaanxi, Shaanxi people living in foreign countries.
以生动鲜活的故事洞察全球化背景下自我与他者的文化区隔、碰撞与交流。
With vivid story insight into the background of globalization and self and other cultural isolation, collision and exchange.
他者百态，访他者之态。
The attitude of others, the attitude of others.
。
.
“Dio ha scelto di stare dalla nostra parte.”在2月21日之前，意大利新冠肺炎确诊病例仅有3例。
"Dio ha scalto di care dalla nostra parte." Before February 21, there were only three confirmed cases of pneumonia in Italy.
然而截至当地时间3月10日，意大利新冠肺炎确诊累计过万，达10149例，死亡631例。
However, by March 10, local time, Italy's new crown pneumonia cumulative diagnosis of more than 10, 149 cases, 631 deaths.
其确诊病例和死亡病例都呈现“暴增”现象，意大利成为欧洲疫情最严重的国家，死亡率升至全球最高。
The number of confirmed cases and deaths has surged, with Italy having the worst epidemic in Europe and the highest death rate in the world.
北京时间2月7日08点28分，穿过云层，从俄罗斯起飞的飞机抵达米兰。
February 7, 8: 28 a.m. Beijing time, through the clouds, from Russia's aircraft arrived in Milan.
在中国直飞米兰的航班取消的情况下，邱振宇从西安坐高铁到上海去乘坐直飞俄罗斯的航班，然后又转机俄罗斯再飞米兰，按照原计划，他回到了这座城市，继续开始在异国他乡的外贸工作。
With China's direct flights to Milan canceled, Qiu took a high-speed train from Xi'an to Shanghai on a direct flight to Russia and then via Russia to Milan, where, as planned, he returned to the city to continue his foreign trade work.
“舟车劳顿，终于到达。
"Zhouzhou, finally arrived.
晚安，祝福祖国。
Good night and best wishes for the motherland.
”这是邱振宇到米兰后发的第一条朋友圈，那时的他没有想到一个月后的意大利疫情会如此严重。
It was Qiu Zhenyu's first circle of friends in Milan, when he did not expect the outbreak to be so severe a month later.
意大利疫情大面积爆发已给北方地区造成严重影响，此次的两个感染集中爆发地分别位于米兰和威尼斯两座名城附近，威尼托（Veneto）大区和伦巴第（Lombrdie）大区已经宣布了相应的封锁措施。
The northern region has been badly affected by the outbreak of a massive epidemic in Italy, with two outbreaks concentrated near the famous cities of Milan and Venice, and the regions of Veneto and Lombrdie having declared the respective closures.
威尼斯一年一度的狂欢节及数场意大利足球甲级联赛比赛被迫叫停，学校、博物馆、歌剧院等公共设施被迫关闭，部分地区出现对生活必需品和防疫物资的恐慌性抢购。
Venice's annual carnival and several Italian football league games were halted, schools, museums, opera houses and other public facilities were closed, and panic buying of necessities and epidemic prevention materials occurred in some areas.
据安莎社的报道，受到中国疫情的影响，今年意大利奢侈品销售会面临30%的降幅。
Italy faces a 30 percent drop in luxury sales this year because of the Chinese epidemic, according to Ansar News.
旅游市场也格外冷清，没有了春节假期的客流，威尼斯高级酒店的房价近乎腰斩。
Tourism market is also particularly bleak, without the flow of the Spring Festival, Venice high-end hotel prices almost halved.
疫情下的街道邱振宇对此也深有体会，他现在因为疫情处于停工状态，在米兰的华人有30万左右，也有许多当地华人和他一样选择停工在家隔离，华人经营的店铺大部分已经休业，这对意大利的经济有很大影响。
Qiu Zhenyu, a street affected by the epidemic, is now at a standstill, with about 300,000 Chinese in Milan, and many local Chinese like him have chosen to stop working at home, and most of the Chinese-run shops have been closed, which has had a big impact on Italy's economy.
返回米兰2月初邱振宇到米兰时，恰好是国内疫情爆发期。
Returning to Milan in early February Qiu Zhenyu to Milan, the outbreak coincided with the outbreak.
因此他这次回米兰时，对疫情有更高的警觉。
So when he returned to Milan, he was even more vigilant about the outbreak.
“2月17号，我和同事一起坐火车去米兰处理工作上的事情，当时车上很少有人戴口罩”，邱振宇这样讲述他回米兰后第一次出门的情况。
"On February 17, my colleagues and I were on a train to Milan to deal with our work, when very few people were wearing masks," he said of his first trip back to Milan.
“但在坐火车时，有异样的眼光看着我们，甚至也有人对我们偷偷的拍照”。
"But when we were on the train, we looked at us strangely, and people even took pictures of us secretly."
对于这些，邱振宇和他的同事并没有过多的计较。
For these, Qiu Zhenyu and his colleagues do not care too much.
所以在工作结束之后，他和同事没有选择继续坐火车，而是选择了开车返程。
So instead of continuing on the train after work, he and his colleagues chose to return by car.
“开车回去是我们最好的选择，不仅可以避免一些不必要的误解和麻烦，而且起到隔离人群的作用，不直接在公共场合接触别人。
"Driving back is our best bet, not only to avoid unnecessary misunderstandings and trouble, but also to insulate people from direct contact in public.
”邱振宇也对自己和同事的身体状况也很是担心，由于就医和政策方面的缘故，一旦感染上病毒，后续留在意大利治疗将是一件非常麻烦的事情，这也让身在异国他乡的邱振宇更为重视疫情的防控。
Qiu and his colleagues are also worried about their health and that staying in Italy for treatment once infected will be difficult because of medical and policy reasons, giving Qiu more attention to the prevention and control of the disease.
同时受疫情影响，他所从事的外贸工作也受到了很大冲击。
At the same time affected by the epidemic, his foreign trade work has been a great impact.
平常他在意大利主要负责的是物流和采购工作，需要出差到米兰以及意大利的其他地区。
Usually in Italy he is mainly responsible for logistics and procurement work, the need to travel to Milan and other parts of Italy.
而随着2月中下旬疫情的大面积爆发，现在邱振宇不得不处于停工居家防疫的状态。
And with the outbreak in the second half of February, Qiu Zhenyu now had to stay home immunization status.
为了隔离期间正常的饮食作息，他与同事前往超市采购了一些食材以及生活用品等必需品。
In order to sleep and eat normally during the isolation period, he and his colleagues went to the supermarket to purchase necessities such as food items and daily necessities.
邱振宇谈到自己的心理状态时表示，不论是工作上、家庭上还是自己的健康上，都感受到了压力。
Qiu Zhenyu talked about his state of mind, whether at work, at home or in their own health, feel the pressure.
隔离这段时间，他选择看电影或者阅读来打发时间，“最近我在樊登读书上听书，让自己的心静一静，也正好利用这段时间学学英语，毕竟以后还要靠这个吃饭再说英语走到世界那里都能用”。
During this time of isolation, he chose to go to the movies or read to pass the time. "Recently I listened to Fangden's book, calm my mind, and took advantage of that time to learn English.
他通过这些让自己面对疫情也更坚强勇敢，哪怕处于隔离的状态，心灵也能获得自由。
By doing so, he made himself stronger and braver in the face of the epidemic, and even in isolation, his mind was free.
邱振宇眼中的意大利民众“2月初我来米兰时，这里和国内截然不同，生活一如既往，大街上并没有人戴口罩。
"When I came to Milan in early February, it was very different from home, life was as usual and there were no masks on the streets," he said.
”邱振宇说，到2月21日有确诊病例之后，许多华人商店陆陆续续的关门，当地的商店依旧有很多的在营业，公司依旧照常运行。
Many Chinese shops continued to close after confirmed cases began on February 21, Qiu said, adding that many local shops were still open and the company was still operating as usual.
百货大楼 香奈儿专柜“2月下旬，米兰这里戴口罩的人并不多，确诊病例少，防护意识不高。
"In late February, there were not many people wearing masks here in Milan. There were few confirmed cases and little awareness of protection.
他们把这次疫情好像看作只比流感严重的病。
They see the outbreak as something more serious than the flu.
”邱振宇的朋友3月7日在意大利街头餐厅发了一条朋友圈，餐厅里依旧人满为患，没有人戴口罩。
A friend of Qiu Zhenyu handed out a circle of friends to Italian street restaurants on March 7, still packed with people and no one wearing masks.
人满为患的意大利餐厅这一天也是意大利米兰开始封城的前一天，而3月7日，意大利境内的确诊人数已累计达5883例，这里人对疫情的防护意识不如国内，普遍低估了这次疫情的严重性，“由于国家体制不同，意大利很难做到让民众待在家里不外出，只是建议民众呆在家里减少外出，无法强制。
The number of confirmed cases in Italy was 5,883 on March 7, a day before the start of the epidemic, which was widely underestimated in Italy, where 5,883 people were less aware of the epidemic than at home. "Because of the different state systems, it is difficult for Italy to keep people at home.
”3月10日，意大利宣布“封国”，“大街上警察一直在转，不让人乱跑，然后米兰的文艺复兴百货大楼也关门了”这是邱振宇和朋友的聊天记录，意大利疫情紧张的局势让每一个在境内的人都处于紧绷状态。
"On March 10, Italy declared a" state of siege, "" The police have been turning the streets to keep people from running, and then the Renaissance Department in Milan is closed, "said Chiu Zhenyu, who chatted with friends as Italy's tense situation strained everyone within its borders.
随着疫情的蔓延，意大利各地的口罩和消毒用品也几乎售罄。
As the epidemic spread, so did the supply of masks and disinfectant supplies across Italy.
不论是线上还是实体店，口罩等价格也在疯狂上涨。
Prices for masks are also soaring, both online and in physical stores.
“之前国内疫情处于爆发期时 ，华人在当地找了很多的药店，把口罩这些防护用品寄回国内，捐赠回国了。
"Before the outbreak, the Chinese found many pharmacies there, sent back their masks and donated them back to China.
”谈到口罩，邱振宇的反应是在意大利很难买到口罩，这些早已卖空了，平时2欧元，5欧元一包的口罩现在在意大利要卖到50 欧元、100欧元。
Turning to masks, Mr Yau reacted by saying it was difficult to buy masks in Italy, which have long been sold short - Euro2, Euro5-a-pack masks are now sold for €50 and €100 in Italy.
邱振宇说目前自己的口罩是从国内带回来的，但现在也所剩不多，也在通过朋友的渠道购买一些口罩。
Qiu Zhenyu said his mask was brought back from China, but there is not much left. He is also buying some masks through friends' channels.
“最近一直待在家里，不外出应该不会浪费口罩”，在这样的情况下，从邱振宇的表述中依旧可以看到他乐观的生活态度。
"You should not waste your mask if you stay at home lately," Qiu said, still reflecting his optimistic attitude towards life.
据悉，目前国内侨联等相关单位会支援在意华侨口罩、预防中药以及大米等生活物资，并且提供线上医疗问诊。
It is reported that overseas Chinese mask, Chinese medicine and rice prevention will be supported by overseas Chinese medicine units and other related units, and provide online medical consultation.
“我会继续留在这里。
"I will stay here.
"根据中国国家卫健委最新通报，截至3月9日24时，兰州有33例境外输入确诊病例，这和近期从伊朗集中回国的300多人有关。
As at 2400 hours on March 9, Lanzhou had 33 confirmed cases imported from overseas, which is related to the recent influx of more than 300 people from Iran, according to a new report from China's National Fitness and Health Commission.
3月11日，在郑州也出现一名从意大利回来的输入型病例。
On March 11, an imported case from Italy also appeared in Zhengzhou.
国内疫情情况逐渐变好，医疗措施总体也让人放心，而意大利医院对于新冠肺炎病人的做法是重症会让住院，轻者在家自我隔离，医药费也是个人承担。
The situation in the country is gradually improving and medical interventions are generally reassuring, while the practice of hospitals in Italy for patients with crowns pneumonia is one of severe hospitalization, self-segregation at home for the light, and personal medical expenses.
回国还是留下？邱振宇说他会继续留在意大利，“身边在意大利的国人已经有不少朋友买机票回国，但我目前没有这样的打算。
Qiu Zhenyu said he would stay in Italy. "There are already a lot of friends around Italy who have already bought tickets, but I have no such plans at the moment.
一方面，回国比较困难；另一方面，这个时候回国，不安全因素很多，在途中不知道会遇到什么样的人，有没有被感染也不确定，而且回国的话，如果被感染到，也会连累家人。
On the one hand, it is difficult to return to the country; on the other hand, it is a time of great insecurity, uncertainty about who to meet on the way, uncertainty about whether they are infected and, if they do return home, their families will be affected.
不如现在就在家待着，至少可以远离密集的人群”。
Better stay home now, or at least stay away from the crowds.
权衡之后，他选择继续留在意大利居家隔离。
On balance, he chose to remain at home in Italy.
在邱振宇看来，虽然回家是每个人遇见危险和灾难时最本能的选择，他还是选择留在意大利，“你看现在的情况，回去的好多人都确诊了，还有人隐瞒病情行程不如实申报，这对他人的生命安全也是一种不负责任的表现 ”。
In Qiu Zhenyu's view, although home is everyone's most instinctive choice in the event of danger and disaster, he chose to stay in Italy, "you see the current situation, many people back to the diagnosis, there are people who hide the disease trip false declaration, which is also an irresponsible performance on the lives of others."
希望一切会好起来在病毒面前，没有国界，这是人类共同面临的挑战。
Hope everything will be fine in the face of the virus, no borders, this is a common challenge facing humanity.
邱振宇外派到意大利工作已经一年有余，从国内疫情爆发到意大利疫情，这些是他未料到的。
Mr Qiu has worked in Italy for more than a year, from a domestic outbreak to an outbreak in Italy that he did not expect.
“在疫情下，每个生命都是珍贵的。
"In an epidemic situation, every life is precious.
外贸工作也很容易受影响，很多东西进行不下去，希望意大利的疫情可以早点好起来。
Foreign trade work is also very vulnerable, many things can not go on, hope that the Italian epidemic can get better sooner.
”在异乡的他面对意大利严重的疫情，邱振宇内心感到害怕但依旧充满希望，对工作的希望，对生活的希望，对生命的希望。
He was in a foreign country facing a severe outbreak in Italy and Qiu Zhenyu felt frightened but still hopeful about his job, his hopes for life and his hopes for life.
前往上海机场的路上最后，邱振宇感叹道，在这个特别的地方和时期，更多的是来自对祖国的自豪和骄傲，“我们的政府在面对疫情时，做的很及时，管控的效果很好，民众也很配合，感受到了民族巨大的凝聚力。
At the end of the journey to Shanghai airport, Qiu Zhenyu lamented that, in this particular place and time, it was more pride and pride in the motherland. "Our government has done a timely job in the face of the epidemic.
”邱振宇接受采访后的第二天，意大利发出了封城的通知，如今意大利已经封国，并紧急求助中国。
The day after Mr Qiu was interviewed, Italy gave notice of the city's closure, and Italy has since sealed it and sought emergency help from China.
希望此时在意大利的国人，无论是工作，上学或是其他都要提高防护意识，保护好自己。
Hopefully, people in Italy, whether they work, go to school or otherwise, will raise their awareness of protection and protect themselves.
Play“封国”后的意大利Abbiamo vinto!。
Abbiamo vinto in Italy after Play's "Seal of Nations."
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
意大利疫情日记|恐惧与希望并存。
Italy's epidemic diary & # 124; & # 45; Fear and hope coexist.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "访他者";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; interviewed by & quot;
var msg_title = "意大利疫情日记|恐惧与希望并存";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Italy's epidemic diary & # 124; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "“等待春暖花开的那天，只为了更好的遇见。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "Waiting for the day when spring blossoms, just for the better.
”";。
";;
var title ="访他者";。
var title = & quot; & quot; interviewed by & quot;
