卖菜、扔菜、闭店 疫情影响下的京城餐饮。
Sell vegetables, throw vegetables, closed shop under the impact of the epidemic situation in the capital.
张晓迪。
Zhang Xiaodi.
中国经营报                      。
China Business News.
中国经营报。
China Business News.
与中国企业同步成长，对话商业领袖，传播商业理想，服务商业人群，《中国经营报》掌控中国商界绝对话语权。
Growing in step with Chinese companies, dialogue with business leaders, spreading business ideals, serving the business community, The China Business Administration controls the absolute voice of the Chinese business community.
。
.
本报记者 张晓迪 北京报道武汉疫情还在继续，居家隔离是当前各地预防疫情传播的重要手段，而随之对经济领域的影响不言而喻，零售、餐饮行业首当其冲。
Our reporter Zhang Xiaodi Beijing reports that the epidemic situation in Wuhan continues, the isolation of homes is an important means to prevent the spread of the epidemic, and the ensuing economic impact is self-evident, retail, catering industry is the first.
记者近日在北京探访了解到，由于没人上门吃饭，以及年夜饭订单取消，卖菜、扔菜、闭店成了北京餐饮业无奈的选择。
A recent visit to Beijing revealed that, as no one eat at home, and the cancellation of the New Year dinner order, selling vegetables, throwing vegetables, closed the restaurant has become the Beijing catering industry helpless choice.
从大年初五起，位于朝阳区的一家老牌京菜金百万就开始在自家餐馆门口做起了“卖菜”的生意，说起这次“转型”，该店一位经理颇为无奈地告诉记者：“本来想靠过年赚点钱，谁知道出了这么个事儿，这下全赔了。
A manager at the Chaoyang-based Beijing Cuisine Cafe, which started selling vegetables in front of its restaurant since about five years ago, told reporters ruefully: "I wanted to make some money on the Lunar New Year.
”记者看到，以往客人排队等座的地方如今堆满了蔬菜、水果、半成品肉类等。
The reporter saw that places where guests used to stand in line were now piled high with vegetables, fruits and semi-finished meat.
该店一位经理告诉记者，年前店里囤了40多万元货物为400多桌年夜饭做准备，结果疫情消息一出，客人纷纷退了预订的年夜饭。
A manager at the store told reporters that the store had hoarded more than 400,000 yuan in preparation for the Lunar New Year's Eve meal, but the guests returned the reservation after the news of the outbreak.
“特殊时期，我们也不能强制人家来，连押金都一起退了。
"We can't force people to come in special times, even if the deposit is refunded.
”该经理称，这些蔬菜、肉类都是年前高价备的食材，能卖出一分就是少亏一分，卖不掉的也就扔掉了。
The manager said the vegetables and meats were high-priced ingredients dating back to a year ago.
截至2月4日，该店已经卖了一周的菜。
As of February 4, the store had been selling dishes for a week.
上述经理称，还要差不多卖一个星期左右，该店储存的食材才会处理完。
It will take about a week for the store to dispose of its stock of ingredients, the manager said.
记者看到，该店门口摆放的一些香菜、蒜苗有点打蔫，对此，这位经理不断向前来买菜的小区居民解释：“天冷，拿出来当样品，一下就冻蔫了，塑料袋里有包装是好的，从塑料袋里拿。
The reporter saw that some of the parsley and garlic sprouts placed in front of the store looked limp, and the manager kept saying to residents of the neighborhood who had come to the store to buy vegetables: "It's cold.
”“这鸡怎么卖？”一位顾客指着包着保鲜膜的鸡问道。
"How do you sell the chicken?" one customer asked, pointing to a chicken wrapped in a plastic wrap.
店里的一位服务员介绍道：“这是蒜香鸡，都是我们给年夜饭准备的，前几天卖40块钱，您35块钱拿上吧。
"It was garlic," said one of the waiters. "It was all prepared for New Year's Eve. It cost 40 yuan the other day.
”该服务员告诉记者，平时这样一只鸡上成菜的话卖100多块。
The waiter told reporters that usually such a chicken into a dish of more than 100 dollars.
鱼肉也按照条来卖，记者了解到，该店以一斤40、70、80多块钱进购的桂鱼、多宝鱼等，如今仅按30～40元一条处理；6块钱一斤进购的木瓜仅售5块钱一斤。
Fish meat is also sold in accordance with the article, reporters learned that the store to a catty 40, 70, 80 yuan purchase of osmanthus, multi-precious fish, and so on, now only at 30 to 40 yuan a piece, six dollars a catty for the purchase of papayas only five dollars a catty.
记者采访了解到，这家以前日经营额在近2万元的餐馆，自疫情暴发以来，进账仅靠一些外卖单和出售的这些食材，一天下来仅能进账2000元左右。
Since the outbreak of the epidemic, the restaurant, which had a daily turnover of nearly 20,000 yuan, has been able to borrow only about 2,000 yuan a day from takeaway orders and the food it sells.
“这些根本无法应付一天无形的开支。
"It's impossible to cope with a day of invisible spending.
”该店经理告诉记者，房租、值班员工工资加水电费，一天下来的开支在1万元左右。
The store manager told reporters that the rent, the employee's wages and utilities cost about 10,000 yuan at the end of the day.
这位干了10多年餐饮的经理感叹：“估计要到7月份，我们才会缓口气，当年SARS不就是这样吗？”采访中，这位经理反复说：“我们根本没想到疫情会传到北京，不然我们也不会进这么多菜。
The manager, who has been serving food for more than 10 years, lamented: "It's not until July that we'll be able to breathe again and again about SARS," the manager said in an interview.
早知道会这样，我们员工一放假，门一关，至少也不亏这么多。
We knew this would be the case, our staff a holiday, a door closed, at least not so much loss.
”但生活没有“早知道”，地处潘家园眼镜城附近的一家鑫粤彩餐厅一样没有“早知道”，和金百万一样，这家餐厅也在年前囤了食材，不一样的是，这家餐厅是一家以海鲜为特色的餐厅。
But life didn't know it beforehand, and Xinyue Cafeteria near Panjiayuan Glasgow didn't know it for a long time. Like millions of people, the restaurant has been hoarding ingredients since before, unlike a seafood restaurant that specializes in seafood.
这家餐厅厨师长告诉记者，过年的10多天以来，一个客人都没有光顾过他们，预订的300多桌年夜饭全部被客人退掉了。
The chef told reporters that for more than 10 days of the Chinese New Year, not a single guest had visited them, and all the more than 300 tables reserved for New Year's Eve were returned by the guests.
此次疫情暴发，病毒源头被怀疑为武汉华南海鲜市场，就此，主打海鲜的餐饮店遭遇了更加严重的打击，尽管如此，这家餐厅店长、值班服务员、厨师每天都在开门待客，但“无人问津”，这位厨师长无奈地摇头。
Despite the fact that the main seafood restaurant was hit harder by the outbreak, which was suspected to have originated in Wuhan's South China seafood market, the restaurant's director, watchman and chef answered daily, but "no one asked," the chef shook his head helplessly.
该店经理告诉记者，他们每天的亏损在3万元左右。
The store manager told reporters they were losing around 30,000 yuan a day.
海鲜不像蔬菜那样可以拿出去卖，放久了，一旦不能食用，只能仍了。
Seafood is not like vegetables can be taken out to sell, put out for a long time, once can not be eaten, can only remain.
“本来这几年餐饮就很难做，保本就很不错了，只希望疫情快点结束吧。
"The past few years of food is very difficult to do, preservation is very good, just hope that the epidemic quickly end it.
”这位经理说。
"said the manager.
同样以吃小龙虾等海鲜为主的，北京最具代表性的餐饮街——簋街，也陷入了萧条。
Also eating crayfish and other seafood-based, Beijing's most representative dining street - Guijie, also fell into depression.
整条街仅剩花家怡园和小龙坎火锅店勉强营业，其他像“胡大饭馆”这样主打龙虾、螃蟹等海鲜特色的餐馆从年初一至今均选择了“闭店”。
All that remains of the street are Hua Jia Yi Yuan and Xiaolongkan Hotpot Shop. Other restaurants like Hu Da Restaurant, which specialise in seafood such as lobster and crabs, have opted for "no store" since the first day of the year.
以往门口排满长队的“胡大”，再不复往日情景，店内只有一个服务员看店，接听电话，无聊地玩着手机。
There used to be a long line of "Hu Da" in front of the door, no longer the old situation, the shop only a waiter to look at the shop, answer the phone, bored playing mobile phones.
而以“焙烤小龙虾”为特色的“渔娘”餐厅也选择了闭店不营业。
And "roasted crayfish" as a feature of the "fishwife" restaurant also chose not to open shop.
“开店比闭店亏损得更多。
"Opening a store costs more than closing it.
”双井富力商城内一家面食店店长告诉记者，由于没有预料到疫情会影响到北京，她选择春节留店值班，本以为能挣三薪，结果餐厅选择了闭店放假，连一薪都没有了。
The head of a noodle shop in Shuangjing City told reporters that she had chosen to stay on duty for the Chinese New Year because she had not expected the outbreak to affect Beijing.
这位店长告诉记者，从年初一到初十，稀稀拉拉，店里没超过50个客人，厨师、服务员都候着，要把汤全部熬上、菜洗好、切好备着，后堂烤箱等机器也都得全部打开，水电全部消耗，实在划不来，老板只好选择了闭店，闭店给员工放假，至少省了工资开支。
From the first day of the new year to the tenth, she told reporters, the shop is not more than 50 guests, cooks, waiters are waiting to boil all the soup, dishes, ready to cook, the back of the oven and other machinery must be opened, water and electricity consumption, really not worthwhile, the boss had to choose closed shop, closed for staff holiday, at least save wages.
记者采访时，这位店长正在整理一些刚盛满饭菜的餐盒。
During the interview, the store manager was sorting out some freshly served meal boxes.
“这些都是给留守的员工准备的，做好了给他们送过去。
"These are for the staff left behind, ready to send to them.
现在厨房冰箱有啥员工吃啥，吃不了的就都扔了，太可惜了，但也没办法。
Now kitchen freezer has what the employee eats what, cannot eat to throw away, too pity, but also have no way.
”美团外卖一位外地籍的送餐员同样选择了过年期间留京，他告诉记者，相比去年的这个时候，他的外卖送单量大幅减少，过年期间送餐费高，去年这个时候他一天能挣七八百块钱，如今一天只能挣一百来块了。
A non-resident delivery man who also chose to stay in Beijing for the holidays told reporters he earned only about a hundred dollars a day when he earned seven or eight hundred dollars a day at this time last year, compared with a time last year when his take-out orders were down sharply and his delivery costs were high.
“牺牲了和家人团圆的机会，没想到哇。
"Sacrificing the chance to be together with my family, I never thought of that.
”他说。
'he said.
（校对：颜京宁）更多报道请点击专题。
(proofread by Jing Ning) For more information, please click on the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
卖菜、扔菜、闭店 疫情影响下的京城餐饮。
Sell vegetables, throw vegetables, closed shop under the impact of the epidemic situation in the capital.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "中国经营报";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "卖菜、扔菜、闭店 疫情影响下的京城餐饮";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "中国经营报 chinabusinessjournal";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Chinabusinessjournal & quot;;; China Business Newspaper.
var title ="中国经营报";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
