地球青年丨饭圈女孩支援疫区：做公益是追星的另一种方式。
The Earth Youth Group Support Epidemic Areas: Being pro bono is another way to pursue stars.
在人间living                      。
Living on earth.
在人间living。
Living on earth.
用冷静的叙述抵抗冰冷 | 凤凰网在人间工作室出品。
Resist cold & # # 124; & # 45; Order of the Phoenix with a sober narrative.
The following article comes from 地球青年图鉴。
A guide to the youth of the planet.
Author 地青。
Authorization Green.
地球青年图鉴。
Youth of the Earth.
年轻的另一种可能。
Another possibility of being young.
在湖北疫区物资援助中，一群饭圈女孩动作迅速地为医护人员筹集了不少物资，她们的效率与组织能力令人惊叹。
In Hubei epidemic area material assistance, a group of rice ring girls action quickly for the medical staff to raise a lot of material, their efficiency and organizational capacity is amazing.
我们采访了三位参与湖北疫区物资支援的饭圈女孩，从这些95后、00后粉丝身上了解到，追星不仅是看演出、打榜，它也引导着一群人脚踏实地地践行公益。
We interviewed three rice ring girls who participated in material support in Hubei epidemic area and learned from the fans after 95 and 00 that the pursuit of stars is not only to see performances and hits the charts, but also to guide a group of people to practice the public interest down to earth.
以下为受访者自述。
The following is a self-report.
三点睡六点起蹲货源文宝 蔡徐坤山东粉丝站站长△ 蔡徐坤山东粉丝站聚会我现在山东泰安读高中，空闲时间运营蔡徐坤山东粉丝站。
crouching at 6 oclock at 3 o'clock source of goods Wenbao Cai Xukun Shandong Fan Station Stationer?? Tsai Cai Xu Kun Shandong Fan Station Meeting I am studying in Shandong Taian High School and running Cai Xukun Shandong Fan Station in my spare time.
作为站长，山东站里的工作都需要我全盘负责和组织。
As the stationmaster, the work in Shandong station needs me to be overall responsible and the organization.
我们山东站目前一共28名成员，分设了管理组、文案组、数据组、前线组和美工组。
Our Shandong Station currently has 28 members, including Management Group, Textbook Section, Data Set, Front Line Group and Artistic Group.
除夕那天晚上12点多，武汉医院资源短缺的消息上了热搜，几家医院发出联合声明医用物资短缺，而且还出现了医患纠纷的消息。
On New Year's Eve at more than 12 p.m., Wuhan hospital resources on the news of the hot search, several hospitals issued a joint declaration of shortages of medical supplies, but also the emergence of a doctor-patient dispute.
看到医护人员在前线这么辛苦却得不到应有的防护，我当时就心急了，在网上疯狂搜索相关信息，一直到半夜两点多。
Seeing health care workers working so hard on the front lines without the protection they deserved, I was in a hurry, frantically searching the Internet for relevant information until more than 2: 00 am.
这次是我最心急的一次活动，那天晚上我就想把所有人叫醒，起来一起找物资。
This was one of my most urgent activities. That night I wanted to wake everyone up and get up and look for supplies.
我当即决定要做一次紧急应援。
I immediately decided to make an emergency call.
之前和其他蔡徐坤粉丝站一起做武汉疫区的联合应援时，我们只捐了款，没有采购物资。
Before and other Cai Xu Kun fan station do Wuhan epidemic area joint assistance, we only donated money, no procurement materials.
但这次情况不同，前线情况紧急，经手中间人我们无法保证物资第一时间运到医护人员手上，于是，这次我决定要用联合捐款剩余的费用采买，直接寄送到医院去。
But this time the situation was different. The emergency situation on the front lines made it impossible for us to ensure that supplies reached the paramedics in the first place, so this time I decided to use the balance of the joint donation to buy and send it directly to the hospital.
当晚，文案组的姐妹连夜写好需求物资的文案，发到工作群里，征求大家意见后，才敢去睡觉，当时已经快凌晨三点了。
Later that night, the sister of the copybook group wrote the demand materials, sent it to the work group, and asked for your opinions before going to bed. It was almost 3: 00 a.m.
大年初一一早，我六点多就起床组织大家找物资。
In the early morning of New Year's Day, I got up at six o'clock.
当时物资太难找了，网上的店大多已经被抢空，我们只能一家一家地去问，看哪里还有“漏网之鱼”。
At that time, the material is too difficult to find, most of the online stores have been emptied, we can only ask a family, to see where there are "fish leakage."
原本有货的店就极少，同时又要注意必须是严格符合医用标准的，我发动了组里的姐妹在各大电商平台搜索。
There were very few stores, and to be careful that they were strictly medical, I launched a group of sisters on the major electric business platforms to search.
搜到有货的店，就去私信客服能否发绿色通道，直接送到武汉的医院，哪怕要加钱也可以。
Searches have the goods the shop, goes to the private letter customer service whether sends the green passage, sends directly to Wuhan hospital, even if must add the money may.
△ 线下购买的手套毕竟网上能搜到的有限，我又发动组里的姐妹去家附近的药店一家家问。
After all, the gloves purchased online are limited, and I started the group of sisters to go to the drugstore nearby to ask.
医用手套药店限购，每个人只能买一包。
Medical glove pharmacies are limited to one pack per person.
我们只能跟药店商量，说物资是发给武汉前线的，磨了好一会，最后才同意把三包手套卖给我们。
We had to discuss with the drugstore that the supplies were sent to the Wuhan front, grinding for a while before finally agreeing to sell us three bags of gloves.
买到手套、口罩后，我们赶紧打包，到傍晚才确定所有网上购买的物资可以发出，寄出了护目镜30个，一次性医用帽子2000顶，一次性鞋套1000只，84消毒液50瓶，一次性医用手套300只。
After we bought gloves and masks, we packed up and didn't make sure all our online purchases were ready for sale until nightfall. We mailed 30 goggles, 2,000 disposable medical caps, 1,000 disposable shoes, 84 disinfectant bottles and 300 disposable medical gloves.
目前只有部分物资寄到，还有一些已经发货。
Only partial deliveries have been made so far, and some have been delivered.
到现在，我们还在找口罩的生产商，想继续采购物资，找了一系列的生产商，电话没有一个接的。
Until now, we are still looking for mask manufacturers, want to continue to buy supplies, found a series of manufacturers, none of the telephone.
一些捐赠机构出现问题后，我意识到以后不要直接给机构捐钱，要做还是得自己落实捐赠物资。
After some donor problems, I realized that instead of donating money directly to institutions in the future, I had to make sure I made donations myself.
△ 粉丝团看望自闭症孩子除了两次向武汉发出公益援助外，我们之前还组织了多次公益活动，也有紧急物资援助的经验。
In addition to providing voluntary assistance to Wuhan twice, we have organized a number of public welfare activities and have also had experience in emergency material assistance.
平时的公益活动，部分会和偶像自己的公益活动有关。
peacetime public welfare activities, part of the idol and their own public welfare activities related.
蔡徐坤一直关注儿童方面的公益项目，我们就组织过关爱自闭症儿童的活动。
Tsai has been focusing on public welfare projects for children. We have organized activities to care for autistic children.
他之前担任中国扶贫基金会减灾形象大使，山东章丘和寿光洪灾时，我们发起了物资捐赠。
He was formerly China Poverty Alleviation Foundation Ambassador, Shandong Zhangqiu and Shouguang floods, we launched a material donation.
我觉得这次的支援比以往的来说，真的太有意义了，在全社会都在关注这件事情的同时，我也能献出一份自己的力量。
I think this support is more meaningful than ever before. While the whole society is concerned about this matter, I can contribute my share.
△ 粉丝团给自闭症孩子买的礼物做粉丝站的初衷，本着一心一意陪蔡徐坤“走花路”的原则，集聚山东的IKUN一起为坤坤做好山东部分的大小应援活动。
Powder Mission to buy gifts for autistic children to do the original intention of fan stations, in accordance with the principle of single-minded accompany Cai Xukun, gather Shandong IKUN together to do a good job for the Shandong section of the large and small rescue activities.
以前我没有参与过公益活动，因为蔡徐坤做公益，我深受他的影响，也开始经常参与，我们这个粉丝站快做成公益站了。
Before I did not participate in public welfare activities, because Cai Xukun as a public welfare, I was deeply affected by his influence, also began to participate regularly, our fan station soon to become a charity station.
追星给了我很多正能量，让我个人的生活改变了很多，我从一个没有做过公益的人，到现在会去关注社会上的一些人和事，慢慢地了解，去帮助更多需要帮助的人。
The pursuit of stars has given me a lot of positive energy and has changed my personal life a lot. I have never been a public-spirited person, but now I will pay attention to some people and things in the society, and understand slowly, to help more people in need.
饭圈“决策者”组成的“666联盟”小度 鹿晗公益联合应援站负责人△ “666联盟”捐赠物资至武汉东西湖区人民医院我今年20岁，是在校大学生，从鹿晗刚出道就开始追他了，从2017年开始，我跟粉丝站做公益，这次疫区应援，我主要负责微博运营以及负责账目记录和对外沟通。
Whipping circle "Decision-maker" Little Deerhan / WU / Public Welfare Union / Han / Public Welfare Union / Han / Public Welfare Union / Han / Donation to Wuhan East / West Lake District People's Hospital I am 20 years old, I have been chasing him since Luhan Han first came out.
我们开始行动的时候，就是以捐赠物资为目的的，所以没有组织捐款。
When we began our operations, it was for the purpose of donating material, so there was no organization to donate.
在网上有了解了一些疫情的最新进展，也在鹿晗超话看到有医护人员的粉丝奔赴一线，就决定要以物资的形式去帮助湖北。
In Werder's Whither or Whither, seeing fans of medical staff rushing to the front, he decided to help Hubei in the form of supplies.
△ “666联盟”中的27家粉丝团体这次，我们联合了27家粉丝团体组成了“666联盟”，一起来完成物资支援。
This time, we joined 27 fans' groups to form a "666 union" to provide material support.
一开始大家是在私下的讨论货源，慢慢的就凑齐了现在的666成员了，成员可能对外看上去甚至有些破次元壁，但粉丝团之间日常都有联系。
At first, we had a private discussion about the source of the goods, and slowly gathered together the current 666 members, members may even look a bit broken, but there is a daily link between the powder.
大家对于货品的要求比较一致，物资要符合捐赠标准，别的不重要，这是我们一起联合的基准点。
We all have the same requirements for the goods, materials to meet the criteria for donation, other than important, this is our joint reference point.
△ “666联盟”向钟祥市人民医院捐赠防护面罩的捐赠物资分配使用单在团队内大家认领自己擅长的事，比如文案由紫宁Winnie后援会和李荣浩吧两家负责，擅长作图的金钟仁吧负责了联盟的的物资报告图。
"Union" donated supplies to the Zhongxiang People's Hospital for the distribution of protective masks. People in the team claimed that they were good at things, such as the writing of materials by Purple Ning Winnie Aid Council and Li Ronghao.
参与其中的大部分人都是所谓的饭圈“决策者”，遇事不慌，协调起来较为简单。
Most of the people involved are the so-called "decision makers" of the rice noodle, who do not panic and coordinate more easily.
从开始参与援助疫区到现在，工作非常繁忙，几乎每天只有三到四个小时的睡眠时间。
From the beginning of involvement in the affected areas to the present, the work is very busy, almost daily only three to four hours of sleep.
为了确保无时差地和海外货源商家进行沟通，休息的时间还得压缩，手机24小时开机，几乎不离开电脑前，连除夕夜大家都是捧着手机，边吃边盯货源，生怕错过了合适的货源。
In order to ensure non-time difference with overseas suppliers, the rest time has to be compressed, mobile phones on 24 hours, almost do not leave the computer, even New Year's Eve is holding the mobile phone, eating and staring at the source of goods, for fear of missing the right source of goods.
△“666联盟”捐赠给湖北医院的医用手套我们对捐赠物品的把控要求非常严格，每一样物品在购买前，都会找到专业人员来替我们把关。
Medical Gloves Donated to Hubei Hospital by Coalitions for? We are very strict in our handling of donated items.
在了解购买的物资是否符合医院所需标准时，要保证所有物品一定要确定可用，而不是将就用。
When learning whether the material purchased meets the standards required by the hospital, make sure that all items are always available and not just used.
关于物资的运输也是个大问题，刚好是春节假期，相关物流公司不管是价格或者时效都是在翻倍的往上跳，并不是每一样货物都能通过绿色医疗专线进行运输，所以在运输方面，联盟里的各家负责人也下了很多心思。
The transport of goods is also a major problem, as it coincides with the Spring Festival, when logistics companies are doubling in price or time. Not every item can be shipped through the Green Medical Line, so the Alliance's principals are also concerned about transport.
截至2月2日，“666联盟”成员已联合捐赠物资共计42万元，其中包括一次性医用外科灭菌手套共计3万套、1000个防护面和医用鞋套5000双以及医用帽15000只，目前也与为王嘉尔打天下应援博联合捐赠护目镜400个，有些物资还在运输中，暂且不方便透露，之后会对外公示。
As of February 2, 666 union members had donated a total of 420,000 yuan, including 30,000 disposable medical surgical sterilization gloves, 1,000 face protection and 5,000 pairs of medical shoes, and 15,000 medical caps.
大家或许会觉得粉丝们打榜会有竞争，但我们做公益这件事并没有竞赛感。
You may think fans will compete in the list, but there is no competition for us to do the public good.
其实外界对饭圈女孩这个团体多多少少存在些误解。
In fact, the outside world to rice circle girls this group more or less misunderstand.
我们也是常人，平时做的事无非就是想让自己喜欢的艺人，得到大家的认同而已。
We are also ordinary people, usually do nothing but want to make their favorite artists, get everyone's recognition.
可是我们不会把公益和利益挂钩，公益就是公益，不存在竞赛，爱无大小，尽力就好。
But we will not link the common good with the interest, the common good is the common good, there is no competition, love is no big or small, try our best.
△ “666联盟”公告图截图这段时间持续帮忙支援，当发现身边的粉丝朋友正是冲在一线的战士时，大家的担心和骄傲，让我明白了我们真的是一家人。
The "666" Alliances "bulletin showed us that we were really one family when we discovered that our fans were the soldiers on the frontline.
印象深刻的是，自从我们开始捐助之后，每天微博都会有好几个粉丝来私信我们需不需要帮助，也有一些粉丝会给我们发缺乏物资的医院的信息，但是由于我们的能力有限，所以没有办法能帮助到所有的。
The impressive thing is that since we started donating, every day on Weibo, there are a couple of fans who believe we need help or not, and there are fans who give us information about hospitals that lack supplies, but because of our limited capacity, there is no way to help all of them.
还有一次郑元畅家元梦畅想粉丝团的团儿跟我说，因为郑元畅扮演江直树的角色太深入人心了，收到不少来自一线工作人员的求助，可能当初大家学医或者做一些事情，也受到过艺人的影响。
Another time, Zheng Yuanchang dream of the Fantasia told me, because Zheng Yuanchang's role as a straight river tree is too popular, received a lot of staff from the front-line staff, may have studied medicine or done some things, has been influenced by entertainers.
这次我们支援，也感受到了艺人在社会的正面形象，正能量满满。
This time we support, also felt the entertainer's positive image in the society, is full of energy.
△鹿晗粉丝与王嘉尔粉丝联合捐赠护目镜鹿晗公益联合应援站是2018年3月成立的，是由多个鹿家的站子联合做公益。
Deer Han and Wang Jia fan jointly donate goggles Lutherhan Public Welfare Response Station was founded in March 2018.
在加入公益站之前，我参与的都是自家站子里有组织的公益活动。
Before joining the Volunteer Station, I was involved in organized public welfare activities in my own station.
往常我们参与的公益项目可能是针对某一个城市，省份或者某一个团体以及个人，但这一次是我们的国家，与以往最大的不同是感受到了全民一致的心。
We used to be involved in projects for the benefit of a city, a province, a group, or an individual, but this time it was our country that felt a sense of national consensus.
△ “666联盟”捐赠的医用手套以及荆州市第二人民医院接受捐赠的证明其实作为饭圈女孩，常常会听到很多不同评价的声音，我们也没想到这一次会得到这么多的鼓励，但是我们并非想要去对民众展示些什么，只是在自己的能力范围内做自己想做的事，这也是我们公益站的日常。
The medical gloves donated by the "666 Union" and the certificate of acceptance of donation from the Second People's Hospital of Jingzhou City are actually the girls in the dining area. We often hear many different opinions.
参与这次支援，我更认定鹿晗会是我一辈子追随的偶像，因为他，我认识了很多志同道合的朋友。
With this support, I think Deerhan would be my hero for life, because he, I know many like-minded friends.
我们面对难题时互相鼓励，彼此扶持，这次一系列的行动让我们的关系变得更为紧密了。
We encouraged each other and supported each other in the face of problems, and this series of actions brought us closer together.
这让我相信，我们会是一辈子的朋友。
This leads me to believe that we will be friends for life.
鹿晗是远方星球的引力，所以我潮汐不止，是铠甲，所以我一往无前。
Deerhan is the gravitation of a distant planet, so I am not only tide, but armor, so I go forward.
省下见面会票钱做公益Susie 肖战DAYTOY公益站负责人△肖战公益站部分成员在无锡聚会我今年22岁，在辽宁的一所大学学新闻，最近在北京的媒体实习。
save money on meeting tickets for commonweal Susie Xiao and some of the members of the pro bono team are gathered in Wuxi. I am 22 years old, studying journalism at a university in Liaoning, and recently I worked as a media intern in Beijing.
最开始，我和北京的五位粉丝组成了公益站，经过第一次招新，现在共有16名成员，大家遍布各地，有成都、上海、深圳的，还有在日本、新加坡的，其中还有三位还在上学的00后妹妹，其他的姐姐们都已经工作了。
At first, five fans from Beijing and I formed a volunteer station. After the first call, there are now 16 members, all over Chengdu, Shanghai and Shenzhen, as well as in Japan and Singapore.
小站成员里有一个美工，两个文案，还有活动组，线上运营组，氪金组，氪金组是几位经济较好的姐姐提供强有力的经济援助。
The station members include an artist, two paperwork, an activity group, an online operations group, a Kryptonian group, and kryptonian groups that provide strong financial assistance to several of the better-off sisters.
其实大家的分工也没有完全明确，很多活动都会一起参与。
In fact, the division of labour is not completely clear, many activities will participate together.
△运送至武汉的消毒液1月21号晚上，我们当时刷微博，有位大V说疫情挺严重的，大家就讨论要不要为疫区做点事情。
On the night of January 21, when we were doing microblogging, a big V said that the outbreak was serious and that we were discussing whether to do something about it.
每次做决策，我们都需要大家线上一起开会讨论，再进行投票。
Every time we make a decision, we all need to meet online to discuss and vote.
那天挺晚的，我们就开始商量捐款还是捐物资。
Later that day, we began to discuss donations or donations.
后来国家有拨款，后援会粉丝们也捐款百万，感觉不缺钱。
With state grants and a million-dollar donation from aid fans, I don't feel short of money.
我们也了解了武汉的情况，大家有朋友在当地做医生，多方面了解到最急缺的是物资。
We also understand the situation in Wuhan, we have friends in the local doctors, many aspects of the most urgent need is material.
也考虑到捐款后再购买物资，可能需要耗费二次的时间成本和人力成本；直接先尽所能去购买物资可以节省时间，还能更点对点地帮助到他们，所以我们就决定直接去联系物资。
It was also taken into account that the purchase of goods after donation could cost twice as much time and effort; it would save time and help them more accurately if we could just buy what we could, so we decided to contact the material directly.
△消毒液送达武汉大学人民医院找厂家的联系渠道先是通过身边的人，大家各种去打听，站子里也会有粉丝来私信提供一些渠道，但这些渠道很少是可以用到的，一些厂家他们生产的都是民用的，不符合医用。
The disinfectant is sent to the people's hospital of Wuhan University to find the contact channels of manufacturers. First, through the people around them, we all go to inquire, there will be fans in the station to provide some channels for private letters.
我们联系了湖北医院的对接人，对接人替我们找到定点医院。
We contacted the docking person of Hubei hospital and found the fixed point hospital for us.
每当我们拿到一些货的样品时，会先让厂家拍照，再给到医院的对接人，确定合规后才购买。
Whenever we get a sample of some goods, we will ask the manufacturer to take photos, then give to the docking person of the hospital, confirm the compliance before buying.
我们最开始联系到的护目镜和口罩，钱都已经交给厂家了，在等待发货的时候突然来消息，说这批口罩和护目镜是符合医用标准的，得优先给医院，不能给我们发了，最后退款了，只成功发出了108瓶消毒液。
The goggles and face mask we first contacted had been handed over to the manufacturer, and while waiting for the delivery, they came up with the news that the masks and goggles met medical standards, were given priority in hospitals, could not be given to us, and were eventually refunded with only 108 bottles of disinfectant.
△在北京举行听障儿童的康复活动站子是2018年7月成立的，最开始的5个人都是在北京线下演出活动认识的朋友，当时才认识两个星期，大家经常聊天。
The station for the rehabilitation of hearing-impaired children in Beijing was set up in July 2018. The first five people were friends who had met for two weeks and talked a lot.
当时有一些演出的票务很难抢票，买黄牛票要6000块。
Tickets for some shows were hard to get, but tickets for the scalpers cost 6, 000.
我们觉得花这个钱去看一眼肖战，不会对我们的生活有实质性的改变，也不会对社会有实质性的改变。
We don't think spending this money on Xiao will make a real difference in our lives or make a real difference to our society.
为什么不把钱用到更有意义的地方？就萌发了开公益站的想法。
Why don't you use your money for something more meaningful? The idea of opening a charity stand was born.
可以少看几次现场演出，把钱省下来以肖老师的名义做公益。
Can see a few live performances less money to save the name of Mr. Xiao to do public welfare.
这样一方面可以帮助别人，另一方面也可以帮助肖老师在公众心中树立比较不错的正能量形象，去把这一份心意送给更多的人。
This on the one hand can help others, on the other hand can help Mr. Xiao set up a better positive energy image in the public mind, to give this a gift to more people.
△慰问成都老兵小站成立后，我们在北京、上海、深圳、成都都有做过线下活动，由每个城市对应区域的成员负责。
After the establishment of the Chengdu Veterans' Station, we all had offline activities in Beijing, Shanghai, Shenzhen and Chengdu.
我们会去联系当地的一些公益机构，上海的两个姐姐会定期去低智儿童康复中心会去做活动，北京也做过听障儿童的康复活动等等。
We will contact some local public welfare organizations, the two sisters in Shanghai will go to the Center for Rehabilitation of Mentally Handicapped Children regularly to do activities, Beijing has done rehabilitation activities for children with hearing impairment and so on.
我们对于一些公益活动的敏感度其实挺高的，可能也是因为饭圈女孩有一个比较敏锐的嗅觉吧。
Our sensitivity to some public welfare activities is high, perhaps because the girls in the dining area have a sharper sense of smell.
去年国庆假期的时候，正好赶上肖战过生日，他在无锡拍戏。
Last year's National Day holiday, just in time for Xiao's birthday, he filmed in Wuxi.
我们四位成员从北京、上海、日本专程来无锡，做了一次关爱自闭症儿童的生日应援，也是我们在各地的成员难得一次聚在一起做公益。
Four of our members came to Wuxi from Beijing, Shanghai and Japan to take care of autistic children for their birthday.
△在上海参与关爱弱势儿童活动这次湖北的物资支援跟以往的公益活动相比，难度真的超级大。
In Shanghai to participate in caring for vulnerable children this time Hubei material support compared with previous public welfare activities, is really extremely difficult.
以前其实都还蛮顺利的，没有遇到过物资联系不到的问题。
In fact, all before quite smooth, did not encounter the problem of material contact.
作为全国性的一个公众事件，我们这边力量确实也蛮微小的，能做的事情挺少，有一种很强烈的力不从心的感觉。
As a national public event, our side of the power is indeed quite small, can do a lot of things, there is a very strong sense of strength.
现在我们还在寻找物资的渠道，但很遗憾的是，合规的还蛮少，越来越困难了，大批量的物资已经不让私人销售了，而是直接发给医院，厂家目前不接受私人订单。
We are still looking for material channels, but unfortunately, compliance is still relatively low and is becoming more difficult. Large quantities of goods are no longer allowed for private sale, but are sent directly to hospitals, where private orders are not currently accepted.
△参加中华绿化基金会“百万森林”计划，捐赠2019棵树苗最开始家里人觉得追星是一个很疯狂、不理智的行为，对追星的成见也蛮大的。
After the "Million Forests" project of the China Green Foundation, 2019 seedlings were donated. At the beginning, the family felt the pursuit of stars was a crazy and irrational behavior.
我做了公益站之后，他们还是挺支持的，毕竟是做好事。
After I became a charity station, they still supported it. After all, it was a good deed.
我想做一些公益的事情也会打破一些他们对追星的成见，家人现在还会关注我们站子的活动。
I would like to do something pro bono will also break some of their stereotypes of the stars, the family will now be watching our station activities.
做公益对我个人的心理上有很多改变，它增加了我生活的幸福感。
Being pro bono has made a lot of psychological changes in my personal life. It has increased my happiness.
我自己一个人来北京，家人朋友也都不在这边，有时候生活压力会很大，但是做完公益之后，就觉得没有那么丧了，首先是生活充实了起来，其次是帮助了别人之后，会从中体会到自己是很幸运的人。
When I come to Beijing alone, my family and friends are not here. Sometimes life is very stressful, but after doing the public welfare work, I feel less depressed.
可能也是因为人长大了，思想上也成熟了，我现在觉得追星不应该仅限于你看着屏幕，觉得好帅，发出赞美。
Perhaps because people grow up and mature mentally, I now feel that the pursuit of stars should not be limited to you looking at the screen, feel good, issued praise.
也不一定去看现场，更不是去做一些私生行为（极端侵犯偶像私生活的行为），干扰明星的正常生活。
It is not necessary to go to the scene, not to do something illegitimate (extreme invasion of the idol's private life), interfere with the normal life of the stars.
而应该去更理智的，用一种更好的方式去追星，这是我们做公益的原因，也是我对追星一些想法的转变。
Instead, we should be more rational, with a better way to pursue the stars, which is why we do the public good, but also my pursuit of some ideas about the change.
我觉得做肖战公益站，就是把对一个人的喜欢，去传递给更多人，把这份爱传递给更多有需要帮助的人。
I think to do Xiao Zhan volunteer station, is to a person like, to pass on to more people, this love to more people in need of help.
图片均由文宝、小度、Susie提供作者 |曹颖匡若彤 易琬玉编辑| 图拉凤凰新闻客户端 凤凰网在人间工作室出品新型肺炎疫情牵动人心，《在人间》现面向全国网友征稿：(一)疫区影像日记如果你身处疫区请你用照片（视频）和文字记录你所听闻和见到的一切照片不少于3张文字不少于300字投稿方式：微信联系人间君（zairenjianliving）（二）抗击疫情真实故事无论你是一线医护人员、志愿者、确诊或疑似患者及家属、已治愈出院人士等等，如果希望讲述疫情相关经历，请微信联系人间君（zairenjianliving）。
Carmen or Carmen Cao or Carmen Cao or Carmen or Carmen Cao or Carmen or Carmen Cao or Carmen or Carmen Cao or Carmen or Carmen Cao or Carmen or Carmen Cao or Carmen or Carmen Cao or Carmen or Carmen Cao or Carmen or Carmen Cao.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
地球青年丨饭圈女孩支援疫区：做公益是追星的另一种方式。
The Earth Youth Group Support Epidemic Areas: Being pro bono is another way to pursue stars.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "在人间living";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; at & quot; among men.
var msg_title = "地球青年丨饭圈女孩支援疫区：做公益是追星的另一种方式";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Earth youth into a support area for girls: volunteering is another form of star-hunting & quot;;
var msg_desc = "这一次，我们为饭圈女孩打call。
var msg _ desc = & quot; this time, we called call for the ring girl.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '地球青年丨武汉的除夕夜，我一个人在家自行观察',。
I saw & amp; aposs at home by myself on New Year's Eve into the earth's youth.
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '地球青年丨互联网时代的僧人Vlogger，拍下最真实的和尚生活',。
Vlogger, a young monk at the age of the Earth, photographed the truest monk or monk at service.
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '地球青年丨职高退学后，他考上意大利美院，画了上百种水彩植物',。
When he dropped out of college, Earth youth entered the Italian Academy of Fine Arts and painted hundreds of watercolor plants and designs.
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="在人间living";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; at human & quot;
