逃离波士顿：“黎女士事件”背后美国抗疫的演变。
Escaping Boston: The Evolution of the American Epidemic Behind the Lady Lai Incident.
霍思伊。
Horsey.
中国新闻周刊                      。
China News Weekly.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
这里是《中国新闻周刊》掌门周刊君，影响有影响力的你。
This is the head of China News Weekly magazine, the influence of influential you.
和我一起拨开迷雾，追寻真相，守望时代。
Join me as we move through the fog, seek the truth and keep watch.
。
.
一个理想的政策，不能走极端要在不同的目标之间实现平衡3月13日，来自美国马萨诸萨州的黎女士携丈夫和儿子，乘国航988航班，在北京落地。
An Ideal Policy Not to Strike the Balance Between Different Goals On March 13, Ms. Lai, from Massachusetts, arrived in Beijing with her husband and son on Air China flight 988.
3月16日她被确诊为新冠肺炎。
She was diagnosed with pneumonia on March 16.
17日，其丈夫洪某某也被确诊。
On the 17th, her husband Hong was also diagnosed.
黎某户籍在重庆，常年居住在美国的马萨诸塞州（麻省），据她自述，2月26日至27日在美国参加公司会议时，接触了后来被确诊的同事，3月1日出现发热等不适，在3月3日、5日、10和11日去医院就诊，其中3次申请新冠病毒核酸检测被拒，所以才飞回到中国治病。
Li, who lives in Chongqing and lives permanently in Massachusetts (Massachusetts), says she flew back to China on March 3, 5, 10 and 11 after suffering a fever and other ailments, including a fever on March 1, while attending a company meeting in the United States.
目前，北京警方以涉嫌妨害传染病防治罪，已对黎某立案侦查。
Currently, Beijing police have opened a case against Lebanon for alleged obstruction of infectious disease prevention and treatment.
总部在马萨诸塞州的渤健公司在回复《中国新闻周刊》时，确认了黎女士的是该公司雇员，并称“回国是她的个人决定”，公司对她的行为“深表遗憾”。
In a reply to China News Weekly, Bojian, based in Massachusetts, identified Ms. Li as an employee of the company and said "it was her personal decision to return," and the company "deeply regrets" her actions.
“领导力会议”造成聚集性感染作为一家全球领先的生物技术公司，渤健此前被媒体津津乐道的，一直是它在阿尔兹海默症药物方面的研究，和它在神经科学领域上的权威地位。
The Leadership Conference resulted in Congregation Infection Bojian, a leading biotechnology company in the world, was previously touted by the media for its research on Alzheimer's disease drugs and its authoritative position in neuroscience.
这家由几位诺奖得主在1978年成立的公司，目前已发展成年收入近百亿美元、在全球共有7550名员工的大型跨国企业。
Founded in 1978 by several Nobel laureates, the company has grown into a large multinational with an annual income of nearly $10 billion and 7,550 employees worldwide.
在2月26日～27日举行的公司“领导力会议”上，当来自全球各地的175名员工聚集在一起，亲密地握手并近距离交谈时，麻省最大规模的一起聚集性感染事件在此发生。
The largest gathering of sexually transmitted infections in Massachusetts occurred when 175 employees from around the world gathered to shake hands intimately and talk to each other at close quarters at the company's Leadership Conference on Feb. 26-27.
当天，黎女士即是上述聚会的参会者之一。
On the same day, Ms Lai was one of the participants in the above gathering.
《中国新闻周刊》了解到，黎女士在中国科技大学统计学专业毕业后出国留学，在美国爱荷华大学攻读统计学博士。
According to China News Weekly, Ms. Li studied abroad after graduating from the Chinese University of Science and Technology and studied statistics at the University of Iowa.
从2009年开始，先后在默克（Merck）公司负责生物统计、美国礼来公司担任研究员，后在弗吉尼亚理工学院担任四年助教。
Since 2009, he has worked as a researcher at Merck, then at Eli Lilly, and then at Virginia Tech for four years.
2015年进入美国生物制药巨头渤健（Biogen），从高级生物统计师做到首席。
Join U. S. biopharmaceutical giant Biogen in 2015, starting with a senior biostatistician.
2018年曾短暂离开过渤健，在专致于开发罕见病靶向疗法的生物制药公司萨雷普塔担任总监。
He briefly left Bojian in 2018 to become director of the biopharmaceutical company that specializes in the development of targeted therapies for rare diseases.
9个月后，回到渤健担任副总监。
Nine months later, he returned to Bojian as his deputy director.
该公司的员工后来了解到，与会的一名高管来自意大利。
Staff at the company later learned that one of the executives at the meeting was from Italy.
截至3月17日，麻省公共卫生部的数据显示，在已经确诊的218个病例中，有102个与渤健会议有关，占了近一半。
As of March 17, data from the Massachusetts Institute of Public Health showed that of the 218 cases identified, 102, or nearly half, were Bojian-related.
事发后，举行会议的波士顿万豪长码头酒店（Marriott Long Wharf），被当地华人调侃为麻省的“华南海鲜市场”。
After the incident, Marriott Long Wharf, the Boston Marriott Long Wharf, was derided by local Chinese as the "South China Seafood Market" in Massachusetts.
由于前期缺乏警惕，很多与会高管在会议后，将病毒带到了本地或更多地方。
Due to a lack of early warning, many executives at the meeting took the virus to local or more locations.
目前还没有确切的数字表明，这次会议在何种程度上加速了全美的疫情扩散，但各州的一些案例显示，很多起确诊病例与参会的渤健员工直接相关。
There are no definitive figures on the extent to which the conference has accelerated the spread of the epidemic across the country, but some state cases show that many of the confirmed cases are directly related to Bohai employees who attended.
一名来自田纳西州的经理和两名印第安那州的员工在回家后被确诊。
A Tennessee manager and two Indiana employees were diagnosed on their way home.
在北卡罗来纳州，至少有五起确诊病例可以追溯到这次会议。
At least five confirmed cases in North Carolina can be traced back to the meeting.
3月2日～4日，包括渤健总裁冯纳玺（Michel Vounatsos）在内的数名高管，再次在波士顿参加了由纽约著名投资咨询企业高文公司（Cowen & Co）主办的“第40届医疗保健会议”，与会的几名高管随后被确诊。
Several executives, including Bojian's president, Michel Vounatsos, were confirmed in Boston on March 2-4 at the 40th health-care conference sponsored by Cowen & amp; Co, a prominent New York investment consultancy.
与此同时，一些高管还参加了在佛罗里达州举办的一个医药行业的圆桌会议，就在这次会上，其中一位高管开始出现一些流感症状。
Meanwhile, some executives attended a pharmaceutical industry round table in Florida, where one of the executives began showing some flu symptoms.
据公司员工对外媒透露，早在2月29日，一名渤健主管就向公司报告了自己的流感症状。
As early as February 29, a Bohai chief reported his flu symptoms to the company, according to the company's foreign media.
从3月3日开始，更多的员工开始出现症状，但公司高管还是照常参加了前述几个大型会议。
Starting March 3, more employees began to show symptoms, but company executives attended several of the big meetings as usual.
直到3月5日，公司才首次向全体员工正式通报了会议和新冠病毒之间的关系，当时，已经有三名与会者被确诊。
It wasn't until March 5 that the company formally briefed all its employees for the first time on the relationship between the meeting and the new crown virus, when three participants had already been diagnosed.
信息传达上的不畅是这次大规模聚集性传染得以不断发酵的原因之一。
Poor communication of information is one of the reasons why this massive, concentrated epidemic continues to ferment.
据内部人士透露，很多员工对公司在事后采取的消极措施感到沮丧。
According to insiders, many employees are frustrated by the company's passive measures after the fact.
在3月5日收到通报后，很多人直接起身，离开了工位，前往医院。
After receiving the briefing on 5 March, a large number of people rose directly from their seats and went to the hospital.
一位在麻省总医院（MGH）急诊科工作的医生指出，在3月4日，已经有一些渤健员工来到医院要求核酸检测，但医院此前完全不知道这次聚集性传染事件，也没有做好足够的准备。
A doctor working in the emergency department of Massachusetts General Hospital (MGH) noted that on March 4, some Bohai staff had come to the hospital for nucleic acid tests, but the hospital had no knowledge of the incident and was not prepared enough.
MGH也是哈佛医学院的附属医院。
MGH is also an affiliate of Harvard Medical School.
在其官网的介绍中写明：本院在美国东海岸排名第一，并在《美国新闻与世界报道》的医院排名中一直名列全美第二。
The hospital ranked first on the eastern seaboard of the United States and second in the national ranking of hospitals in the US News and World Report.
美国“检测难”背后黎女士自称，在3月3日、5日、10和11日去美国医院就诊，其中3次申请新冠病毒核酸检测被拒。
Behind the test, Ms. Lai said she went to US hospitals on March 3, 5, 10 and 11 and three of her applications were rejected.
但在美国的华人论坛上，一些自称知情的爆料人士指责她撒谎，称她是在美国确诊后回国。
But at the American Chinese Forum, some self-proclaimed informants accused her of lying, saying she had returned home after being diagnosed in the United States.
目前，黎女士在美期间这段经历的具体情况还有待警方公布调查结果，但从已有的报道和渤健官方信息中可以推断，至少在3月6日之后，大部分与会员工都有接受核酸检测的资格。
Currently, details of Ms. Lai's experience in the United States have yet to be released by the police, but it can be inferred from available reports and official Bojian information that, after at least March 6, most of the employees present were eligible for nucleic acid testing.
据公司内部人士透露，3月1日，最早产生症状的一名渤健高管去麻省总医院就诊，申请核酸检测被拒，因其不符合检测标准。
On March 1, a Bojian executive who first developed symptoms went to Massachusetts General Hospital to apply for a nucleic acid test that was rejected because it did not meet the test criteria, according to company insiders.
美国的核酸检测标准一直被指责“门槛过高”。
US nucleic acid testing standards have been criticized as "too high a threshold."
美国疾控中心（CDC）规定，只有拥有严重呼吸疾病、与疑似或确诊患者有过密切接触，或在过去14天内去过“三级警告”国家的人，才有资格获得核酸检测。
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) states that only people with severe respiratory disease, who have had close contact with suspected or confirmed patients, or who have been to a "Level 3 Warning" country in the last 14 days, are eligible for nucleic acid testing.
CDC提供的“三级警告”国家列表，会根据全球的疫情情况动态更新。
The CDC provides a list of "Tier 3" countries that will be updated in the light of the global epidemic.
目前主要有中国、伊朗、韩国、英国和欧洲29国，包括意大利、法国、德国和西班牙等。
China, Iran, South Korea, the United Kingdom and 29 countries in Europe, including Italy, France, Germany and Spain.
对“密切接触”也有严格界定，指距离疑似或确诊患者不超过2米，并且有一段持续的接触。
There is also a strict definition of "close contact," meaning a distance of no more than 2 metres from a suspected or diagnosed patient and a period of continuous contact.
但随着病毒在美国的不断扩散，没有旅行史、无法溯源的患者开始增多。
But with the spread of the virus in the United States, the number of patients with no travel history and no traceability has begun to rise.
尤其在具体病例的传播轨迹无法追踪且不公布的情况下，“密切接触”的标准很难达到。
Particularly when the trajectory of a specific case cannot be tracked and published, the standard of "close contact" is difficult to achieve.
事实上，整个1月和2月，尤其在华盛顿州出现聚集性传染以后，很多华盛顿州和纽约州的官员、医生和病人，都抱怨无法获得CDC的检测资格。
Indeed, throughout January and February, especially after the onset of a concentrated infection in Washington State, many officials, doctors, and patients in Washington and New York complained that they were not eligible for the CDC.
位于波士顿的布列根和妇女医院的临床研究主任、哈佛医学院教授林德赛·巴登（Lindsey Baden）认为，几周前，CDC的标准或许有道理，但依照病毒目前的传播曲线，现在已经不再使用。
Lindsey Baden, a professor at Harvard Medical School and director of clinical research at Bregan and Women's Hospital in Boston, believes that the CDC's standard might have made sense a few weeks ago, but given the virus's current transmission curve, it is no longer in use.
2月28日之后，CDC将检测权限下放至州一级。
After 28 February, CDC decentralized testing to the state level.
麻省公共卫生部（DPH）获得检测权，并首度制定了自己的检测标准，基本和CDC一致，但在对“密切接触”的界定上，要求必须是和确诊患者的接触。
The Massachusetts Department of Public Health (DPH) has been given the right to be tested, and for the first time has developed its own testing standards, largely consistent with those of the CDC, but in defining "close contact" the requirement must be contact with the diagnosed patient.
因此，根据麻省的标准，渤健的与会员工既没有旅行史，又无法证明自己是“密切接触者”，很多人只有轻症，不符合检测标准。
As a result, Bojian's employees have neither a history of travel nor proven to be "close contacts" by Massachusetts standards, and many have only mild illnesses and do not meet the test criteria.
3月3日，渤健的首席医疗官向麻省公共卫生部上报，在2月底的会议后，公司内部约50名员工相继出现了发热、咳嗽等流感症状，但他被告知，这些人都不符合核酸检测标准。
Bojian's chief medical officer reported to the Massachusetts Department of Public Health on March 3 that after a meeting in late February, about 50 employees developed flu symptoms, including fever and cough, but he was told none of them met the nucleic acid test criteria.
转机出现在第二天，渤健在3月4日再次上报麻省公卫部，明确称至少两名来自欧洲、参加过会议的员工已经被确诊。
The turn in the next day, Bohai on March 4 again reported to the Massachusetts Department of Public Health, clearly said that at least two people from Europe, who have participated in the meeting have been diagnosed.
依据麻省公卫的检测标准，部分与会员工是确诊患者的“密切接触者”，可以获得检测资格。
According to the Massachusetts public health testing standards, some of the participating staff is the confirmed patient's "close contacts," can be qualified for testing.
同日，据麻省总医院急诊科医生保罗·比丁格（Paul Biddinger）回忆，很多渤健员工来到急诊科就诊，一些人没有症状，急诊科把每个人的医学评估结果都上报给麻省公卫部，和公卫部沟通了具体每个人是否符合核酸检测标准。
On the same day, according to Paul Biddinger, an emergency doctor at Massachusetts General Hospital, many Bohai staff came to the emergency department, some of whom had no symptoms, and the emergency department reported everyone's medical assessment to the Massachusetts Department of Public Health, which communicated with the ministry whether each individual met the nucleic acid test criteria.
“他们中的一些人被检测了，一些人没有，”他说。
"Some of them were tested, some not," he said.
保罗还指出，没有被检测的人非常沮丧，一些情况是值得讨论的。
Paul also points out that people who have not been tested are very depressed and that some situations are worth discussing.
当日，依据公司内部的通告，已经有三名波士顿本地的公司员工被确诊。
On the same day, three employees of a Boston-based company had been diagnosed, according to an internal notice.
截至3月4日，波士顿一共有8例确诊，除一例早被CDC确诊的学生以外，另外七人中，只有四人在波士顿市区，其中三人来自渤健。
As of March 4, eight cases had been confirmed in Boston, of which only four were in downtown Boston, three of them from Bojian, in addition to one student who had been diagnosed by the CDC.
市长马蒂·沃尔什（Marty Walsh）说：“局势恶化的非常迅速。
Mayor Marty Walsh said: "The situation is deteriorating very quickly.
”3月6日，在麻省公卫部的要求下，除麻省总医院外，布列根和妇女医院也在院外的救护车里建立起了临时检测站，以满足不断增加的渤健员工检测需求。
On March 6, at the request of the Massachusetts General Hospital, Bregan and the Women's Hospital, in addition to the Massachusetts General Hospital, set up temporary testing stations in ambulances outside the compound to meet the increasing demand for Bojian staff testing.
这天，又有五名渤健员工确诊。
On that day, another five Bojian employees were diagnosed.
3月10日，麻省宣布全州进入紧急状态。
On March 10, Massachusetts declared a state of emergency.
当天的数据显示，在全州共92起确诊病例中，70起与渤健会议有关。
Data for the day showed that of a total of 92 confirmed cases across the state, 70 were related to the Bojian conference.
仅仅在一周内，至少有67名员工获得检测。
In just one week, at least 67 employees were tested.
事实上，随着越来越多的员工确诊，也会有更多员工满足“密切接触”的标准，获得检测资格。
In fact, as more and more employees are diagnosed, more will meet the criteria of "close contact" and qualify for testing.
除了两家医院，麻省也授权两家企业实验室进行检测，以扩大检测能力。
In addition to the two hospitals, Massachusetts also authorized two enterprise laboratories to conduct tests to expand detection capacity.
3月12日，在世卫组织宣布新冠疫情已经演变成“全球大流行”的次日，黎女士一家回国。
The family returned home on March 12, the day after the WHO announced the outbreak had turned into a "global pandemic."
在美国难以实现“隔离”在渤健爆发大规模聚集性传染后，公司早在3月5日就要求所有与会员工在家隔离。
Unable to achieve "isolation" in the United States after the Bojian outbreak of mass infection, the company on March 5 asked all participating workers to stay at home.
3月6日，公司再次发布声明，进一步强调所有员工不要接触人群和外界，没有症状的也要在家隔离，等待公卫部门上门联系。
On 6 March, the company issued a further statement, further emphasizing that all employees should remain out of contact with the crowd and the outside world, and those without symptoms should be isolated at home, waiting for the public health department to contact them.
但黎女士却在公司不知情的情况下私自回国，没有遵循居家隔离的要求。
However, Ms. Lai returned home without the company's knowledge and did not comply with the requirement of segregation.
美国外交关系委员会全球卫生问题高级研究员黄严忠告诉《中国新闻周刊》， 美国的居家隔离全凭自觉，没有强制性，也缺乏中国式的强监管。
Huang Yanzhong, a senior research fellow on global health at the Council on Foreign Relations, told China News Weekly that household isolation in the United States is voluntary, non-mandatory and devoid of strong Chinese supervision.
这和中美两国制度差异有关。
This has to do with institutional differences between China and the US.
在美国，没有中国式的社区和街道，如果是监管，只能靠警力，但显然，大范围的隔离监管，无论人力、物力还是财力，都不现实。
In the United States, there are no Chinese-style communities and streets, and if regulated, police forces are the only ones, but it is clear that extensive isolation, whether human, material or financial, is not realistic.
“渤健没有看护好黎女士，虽说于责有碍，但没有法律问题，”他说。
"Bojian did not take good care of Ms Li and, while blaming her, there was no legal issue," he said.
3月以来，美国确诊病例激增。
Since March, there has been a surge in confirmed cases in the United States.
过去三周，美国已知的冠状病毒感染病例已超过5600例，其中101例死亡。
In the past three weeks, there have been more than 5,600 known cases of coronavirus infection in the United States, including 101 deaths.
在此局势下，各州也开始采取一些更加激进或严厉的措施，防止病毒扩散。
In this situation, states have also begun to take more radical or draconian measures to prevent the spread of the virus.
在哈佛大学医学院全球卫生教授梅根·默里（Megan Murray）看来，当没有更好的手段阻止这种病毒的传播时，隔离是最后一种手段。
According to Megan Murray, a professor of global health at Harvard Medical School, isolation is a last resort when there is no better way to stop the spread of the virus.
美国东北大学卫生政策法学中心教授温迪·佩默特（Wendy Parmet）说：“除非必要，我们不想限制人们的自由，”理论上，联邦政府可以依据《公共卫生服务法》（Public Health Service Act）授权美国卫生和公共服务部(Department of Health and Human Services)，采取强制性的隔离措施,前提是为了防止传染性疾病进入美国，或在各州之间传播。
Wendy Parmet, a professor at the Center for Health Policy Law at Northeastern University, said: "We do not want to restrict people's freedom unless necessary." In theory, the federal government could authorize the Department of Health and Human Services to impose compulsory quarantine measures under the Public Health Service Act, provided that infectious diseases do not enter the US or spread between states.
例如，CDC此前从中国或伊朗飞回来的美国人必须在11个定点机场落地入关，进行专门的入境审查，就是一例。
For example, the CDC has previously flown back from China or Iran, where Americans must land at 11 designated airports for special immigration clearance, for example.
再比如，在内布拉斯加州的奥马哈市，“钻石公主号”上的八名乘客被集中到专门的国家隔离中心隔离。
In Omaha, Nebraska, for example, eight passengers aboard the Princess Diamond were assembled in a special state quarantine center.
该中心于去年建成，拥有20个床位，是美国唯一一所专为高风险传染人群设置的隔离中心。
Built last year, the 20-bed center is the only U. S. isolation center for high-risk infections.
在门口，有武装的警卫看守。
There were armed guards at the door.
事实上，这个案例极其罕见。
In fact, this case is extremely rare.
在居家隔离或集中隔离方面，联邦政府极少下达过类似的行政命令。
The Federal Government has rarely issued similar executive orders with regard to home segregation or centralized segregation.
在实践中，各州根据自己的情况，自行制定。
In practice, the cantons are left to their own devices.
例如，加州旧金山的六个郡联合宣布，从3月16日晚间开始，当地居民必须全部居家隔离，一直到4月7日。
For example, six counties in San Francisco, Calif., jointly announced that residents would have to be kept at home from the night of March 16 until April 7.
但不同的是，居民被允许去超市购物和看医生，访客也可以进入该地区 。
The difference, however, is that residents are allowed to go to the supermarket to shop and see a doctor, and visitors can also enter the area.
居民还可以进行一些户外活动，比如慢走或爬山，只要他们保证彼此之间距离2米远。
Residents can also engage in outdoor activities, such as walking slowly or climbing mountains, as long as they keep a distance of 2 meters.
湾区的上述措施又被称为“在家中避难”，引发了媒体和专家的广泛讨论，很多专家认为，“这是目前最惊人的一个政府防控举措”。
The Bay Area measure, dubbed "taking refuge at home," has sparked widespread media and expert debate, with many experts calling it "one of the most spectacular government initiatives yet."
更多地方政府，只是针对特殊群体，进行小范围的集中隔离。
More local governments, targeted at specific groups, have concentrated on a small scale.
例如，在华盛顿州的金郡（King County），专门开辟了一个小型的汽车旅馆用于集中隔离一些特殊情况的疑似患者。
In King County, Washington state, for example, a small motel has been set up to centrally isolate suspected patients in special cases.
但3月13日早上，一名在旅馆隔离、正在等待核酸检测的流浪汉从中逃出，在街角的便利店偷取一些物资后，坐上一辆公交车离开。
But on the morning of March 13, a homeless man quarantined in a hotel, waiting for a nucleic acid test, escaped, stole some supplies from a corner convenience store and got on a bus to leave.
金郡的肯特市(Kent)市长德纳·拉尔夫（Dana Ralph）在脸书上随后沮丧地说：“此前我对隔离点的担忧应验了。
Dana Ralph, mayor of Kent, in Kingshire, then wrote gloomily on Facebook: "My fears about the quarantine point had come to pass.
这次事件是一次信任危机，之后，我们可能会采取更严厉的措施进行隔离。
This incident is a crisis of confidence, after which we may take more drastic measures to quarantine.
”乔治城大学法学院公共卫生法律教授劳伦斯·戈斯廷（Lawrence Gostin）指出，无论是联邦还是各州法律，都缺乏足够的权力去采取如此大范围的隔离措施。
Lawrence Gostin, a professor of public health law at Georgetown University School of Law, points out that neither federal nor state law has enough power to impose such a wide range of isolation measures.
意大利也是由于有一个比较集中的中央政府，可以实现“封国”。
Italy, too, can be "closed" by having a more centralized central government.
而且，对被隔离的人群，美国也缺乏一个足够有力的后勤保障系统去实现如此大范围的物资调配，比如医疗用品、食物和其他生活必需品。
And, for the isolated population, the US lacks a logistical support system strong enough to allow such a wide range of supplies, such as medical supplies, food, and other necessities.
黄严忠指出，一个理想的政策，不能走极端，要在不同的目标之间实现平衡。
Huang pointed out that an ideal policy should not go to extremes and strike a balance between different goals.
在针对新冠病毒的防疫政策上，如果说天平的一端是“尽可能防止病毒扩散，不计一切代价”，另一端是“最小化防疫对经济社会的冲击”，各国的政策都是在两端之间，寻找一个最适合自己的点位。
In the case of the new cap virus, if one end of the scale is to "prevent the spread of the virus at all costs," and the other is to "minimize the economic and social impact of immunization," countries "policies are at both ends of the spectrum, looking for a niche that best suits them.
并且，这个点位是随着疫情的发展，动态变化的。
And, this position is dynamic with the development of the epidemic.
他表示，特朗普政府此前的思路更偏向于“最小化损失”，其中除了科学依据，也有政治化的考量。
He said the Trump administration's previous thinking had been more oriented toward "minimizing losses," with political considerations as well as scientific evidence.
今年是大选年，特朗普肯定不希望疫情对社会经济造成太大冲击。
This is an election year, and Trump certainly does not want the epidemic to have too much of an impact on society and the economy.
但随着近几周来美国确诊病例的激增，在各种批评和压力下，他的政策也开始向天平的另一端调整，比如进行更积极的检测，建议人们尽可能减少社交活动。
But as the number of confirmed cases in the United States has soared in recent weeks, under criticism and pressure, his policies have begun to shift to the other side of the scale, with more aggressive testing and advice to minimize social interaction.
3月16日，特朗普在白宫宣布新版“抗疫指南”，首次建议取消大规模聚集性活动。
On March 16, Trump announced at the White House a new version of the "Anti-epidemic Guidelines," the first to recommend the elimination of mass gatherings.
他提出，要避免超过10人的集会，建议所有美国年轻人尽可能在家里上学，避免随意旅行，避免在酒吧、饭店和美食广场等公共场所进餐。
To avoid gatherings of more than 10 people, he suggested that all young Americans attend school at home whenever possible, avoid random travel and avoid eating in public places such as bars, restaurants and gourmet squares.
若家中有人确诊，全家人都应留在家中。
If someone in the family is diagnosed, the family should stay at home.
“这表明，特朗普政府对社会隔离越来越重视，”加州大学洛杉矶分校公共卫生学院副院长、流行病学资深终身教授张作风对《中国新闻周刊》说道。
"It shows that the Trump administration is paying increasing attention to social isolation," Zhang style, vice-dean and senior professor of epidemiology at the UCLA School of Public Health, told China News Weekly.
本作品著作权归中国新闻周刊独家所有，授权深圳市腾讯计算机系统有限公司独家享有信息网络传播权，任何第三方未经授权，不得转载。
The copyright of this work belongs exclusively to China News Weekly, which authorizes the Shenzhen Tencent Computer System Co. Ltd. to have exclusive rights to disseminate the information network.
值班编辑：石若萧推荐阅读▼你知道现在最火本科专业是什么吗？学还是不学，这是个问题揍他可以国际公共卫生专家：美国疫情防控迎来转折点，未来几周病例会迅速上升。
Why don't you tell him why? Why don't you Why don't you tell him why? Why don't you tell him to come?
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
逃离波士顿：“黎女士事件”背后美国抗疫的演变。
Escaping Boston: The Evolution of the American Epidemic Behind the Lady Lai Incident.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "中国新闻周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "逃离波士顿：“黎女士事件”背后美国抗疫的演变";。
var msg _ title = & quot; fled Boston: AT & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; behind Ms Lai's case.
var msg_desc = "一个理想的政策，不能走极端，要在不同的目标之间实现平衡";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; An ideal policy that doesn't go to extremes and strikes a balance between different goals;;
title: '你知道现在最火本科专业是什么吗？学还是不学，这是个问题',。
Do you know what at present is the hottest undergraduate major? Learning or not? It's a question and a question.
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '你知道现在最火本科专业是什么吗？学还是不学，这是个问题',。
Do you know what at present is the hottest undergraduate major? Learning or not? It's a question and a question.
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '揍他可以',。
A: Did he AT & apos; s service?
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '揍他可以',。
A: Did he AT & apos; s service?
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '国际公共卫生专家：美国疫情防控迎来转折点，未来几周病例会迅速上升',。
International public health expert: The United States has at a turning point in its epidemic prevention and control. & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '国际公共卫生专家：美国疫情防控迎来转折点，未来几周病例会迅速上升',。
International public health expert: The United States has at a turning point in its epidemic prevention and control. & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="中国新闻周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by China News & quot;
